pa 
"ITALIANISTICA 





Volume 10, 1992 


AdI 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
EDITOR: 
Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: 
Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 
Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Edoardo A. Lébano, /ndiana University 
Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 
ADVISORY BOARD: 
Luigi Ballerini, New York University 
Emesto G. Caserta, Duke University 
Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Cecil Grayson, Magdalen College, Oxford 
Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 
Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 
Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 
Paolo Valesio, Yale University 
Aldo Vallone, Universita degli Studi di Napoli 
Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 


Annali d'Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its cultural context, to foster 
scholarly excellence, and to select topics of interest to a large number of Italianists. Monographic 
in nature, the journal is receptive to a variety of topics, critical approaches, and theoretical 
perspectives. Each year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and contributions are welcome. 
The journal is issued in the fall of each year. For all communications conceming contributions and 
subscriptions, address the Editor, Annali d’Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. Subscription rates: Regular $12; institution $19; patron $30; 
donor $50; benefactor $100; foreign subscribers: $21 (surface mail). Checks, in U.S. currency, 
should be made payable to Annali d’/talianistica. Manuscripts should be submitted with a Mcintosh 
or IBM compatible disk and should be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. 
Authors should follow the MLA style for articles in English; articles in Italian should conform to 
the Ad/ style sheet. 


© 1992 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Annali d’Italianistica 
Volume 10, 1992 
AdI 1994: The Italian Epic and Its European Context 


% 


5 Dino S. Cervigni. An Introduction 

I. Interpreting and Reinterpreting Columbus’s Encounter 

16 David Citino. A Letter of Columbus 

28 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. Between Humanism and New Historicism: 
Rewriting the New World Encounter 

48 Stelio Cro. Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 


70 Paola Zito. Il nuovo mondo e la vera fede. L’opera 
d’evangelizzazione delle Americhe da parte della Compagnia di Gest 

80 Lucia Binotti. Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crdnicas delle 
conquiste spagnole 

96 Luigi Avonto. Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento in 
Oviedo e Garcilaso El Inca 


116 Andrea Battistini. “Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!”: 
due esploratori a confronto nell’ immaginario barocco 


II. Columbus’s Voyages through Literature 


134 David Marsh. Beyond the Pillars of Hercules: 
Voyage and Veracity in Exploration Narratives 

150 Albert N. Mancini. Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di 
Giovanni Giorgini 

180 Marzio Pieri. Les Indes Farnesiennes. 
Sul poema colombiano di Tommaso Stigliani 

190 ‘Franco Vazzoler. Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane”. Comicita 
ed esotismo nell’ Atalipa, dramma per musica di Gerolamo Gigli 

212 Stefania Buccini. “Nuovo Mondo” e “Teatro” nell’opera di Goldoni 

222 Franklin C. Cacciutto. History and Romance in Rafael Sabatini’s 
Columbus 

236 Thomas Heck. The Operatic Christopher Columbus: 
Three Hundred Years of Musical Mythology 

II. The Children of Columbus 

274 Sebastiano Martelli. “Il nume frenetico”. Gli Arii alla conquista 
dell’ America 

280 Paolo A. Giordano. Images of America and Columbus 
in Italian/American Literature 

298 Paolo Valesio. Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America. 


REVIEWS AND NOTES 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 
Edited with the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Albert N. Mancini, Valeria 
Finucci, Gustavo Costa, and John P. Welle. 


Anna Santoro, Francesca Veglione. Catalogo della scrittura femminile italiana a 
stampa presente nei fondi librari della Biblioteca Nazionale di Napoli (dalle 
origini della stampa al 1900) (Rosalia Colombo Ascari 326). Rachel Jacoff and 
Jeffrey T. Schnapp, eds. The Poetry of Allusion: Virgil and Ovid in Dante’ s 
"Commedia” (Steven Botterill 327). Dante’s Lyric Poems. Trans. into English 
Verse by Joseph Tusiani (Justin Vitiello 329). Amilcare A. Iannucci, ed. Dante 
Today (Margherita De Bonfils Templer 332). Aldo Vallone. Strutture e 
modulazioni nella Divina Commedia (Adriano Comollo 339). Dante Alighieri. 
La divina commedia. Scelta e commento a cura di Pietro Cataldi e Romano 
Luperini (Salvatore Cappelletti 341). Adriano Comollo. // dissenso religioso in 
Dante (Giuliana Carugati 342). Pasquale Sabbatino. L’ Eden della nuova poesia. 
Saggi sulla Divina commedia (Adriano Comollo 343). Marjorie O’Rourke 
Boyle. Petrarch’s Genius: Pentimento and Prophecy (Aldo S. Bernardo 345). 
Steven Grossvogel. Ambiguity and Allusion in Boccaccio’s Filocolo (Janet 
Smarr 349). Konrad Eisenbichler, ed. Crossing the Boundaries: Christian Piety 
and the Arts in Italian Medieval and Renaissance Confraternities. Early Drama, 
Art and Music (Paul Colilli 351). Marsilio Ficino. Lettere. I. Epistolarum 
familiarium liber I. Ed. Sebastiano Gentile (David Marsh 353). Diana Robin. 
Filelfo in Milan: Writings 1451-1477 (Stephen Murphy 355). Denise Alexandre- 
Gras. L’ héroisme chevaleresque dans le Roland Amoureux de Boiardo (Mauda 
Bregoli-Russo 358). Sergio Zatti. // Furioso fra epos e romanzo (Valeria Finucci 
360). Mauda Bregoli-Russo. L’impresa come ritratto del Rinascimento (T. C. 
Price Zimmermann 362). Camillo, Giulio. L’idea del theatro. Introduzione e 
note a c. di Lina Bolzoni (Salvatore Cappelletti 362). Kenneth R. Bartlett, 
Konrad Eisenbichler, and Janice Liedl, eds. Love and Death in the Renaissance 
(Bonner Mitchell 365). Antonio Stauble. “Parlar per lettera” . Il pedante nella 
commedia del Cinquecento e altri saggi sul teatro rinascimentale (Mauda Bregoli 
Russo 366). Elizabeth J. Bellamy. Translations of Power: Narcissism and the 
Unconscious in Epic History (Lynn Enterline 369). Juliana Schiesari. The 
Gendering of Melancholia: Feminism, Psychoanalysis, and the Symbolics of 


Loss in Renaissance Literature (Elizabeth J. Bellamy 370). Battista Giuseppe. 
Opere. Ed. Gino Rizzo (Olimpia Pelosi 373). Glenn Palen Pierce, ed. // titolo 
non si sa (Mauda Bregoli-Russo 374). Sebastiano Locatelli. Viaggio di Francia. 
Costumi e qualita di quei paesi (1664-1665). A c. di Luigi Monga e con 
prefazione di Albert N. Mancini. (Stefania Buccini 375). Angelica Forti-Lewis. 
Maschere, libretti, e libertini. Il mito di Don Giovanni nel teatro europeo (Carol 
Lazzaro-Weis 376). Luciano Bottoni. // teatro, il pantomimo e la Rivoluzione 
(Gustavo Costa 378). Stefania Buccini. /] dilemma della Grande Atlantide. Le 
Americhe nella letteratura italiana del Settecento e del primo Ottocento 
(Salvatore Cappelletti 380). Giorgio Cavallini. Studi e note su Foscolo e 
Leopardi (Clavio Ascari 383). Franco Suitner. Introduzione ai Promessi sposi 
(Augustus Pallotta 386). Chris Bongie. Exotic Memories: Literature, 
Colonialism, and the Fin de Siécle (John P. Welle 388). Daniela Bini. Carlo 
Michelstaedter and the Failure of Language (Massimo Verdicchio 390). Rocco 
Paternostro. La poetica dell’ assenza (Joseph Francese 394). Peter N. Pedroni. 
The Anti-Naturalistic Experience: Federigo Tozzi (Loredana Anderson 397). 
Federigo Tozzi. Ghisola. Con gli occhi chiusi (Peter N. Pedroni 398). 
Rosamaria LaValva. J sacrifici umani: D’Annunzio antropologo e rituale 
(Giovanni Gullace 400). Paolo Valesio. Gabriele D’ Annunzio: The Dark Flame 
(Charles Klopp 403). Franco Zangrilli. Linea pirandelliana nella narrativa 
contemporanea (Enzo Neppi 405). Maria Di Giovanna. La fuga impossibile: 
sulla narrativa di Maria Messina (Rosalia Colombo Ascari 407). Joseph 
Francese. II realismo impopolare di Pier Paolo Pasolini (Antonio Vitti 408). 
Mario Moroni. Essere e fare. L’itinerario poetico di Antonio Porta (Alessandro 
Carrera 410). Gian Paolo Biasin. J sapori della modernita. Cibo e romanzo 
(Gregory Lucente 412). Margherita Pieracci Harwell. Un cristiano senza chiesa e 
altri saggi (Massimo Maggiari 414). Victoria de Grazia. How Fascism Ruled 
Women: Italy, 1922-1945 (Ellen Nerenberg 417). Baraniski, Zygmunt G. and 
Robert Lumley, eds. Culture and Conflict in Postwar Italy: Essays on Mass and 
Popular Culture (John P. Welle 419). Renato Barilli. Rhetoric (Renate Holub 
421). Italian Feminist Thought. A Reader. Ed. Paola Bono and Sandra Kemp 
(Anna Maria Torriglia 427). Silvia Vegetti Finzi. J] bambino della notte: 
divenire donna divenire madre (Rosalia Colombo Ascari 429). 

Books Received (431) 

Copyright 1992. Annali_ d’italianistica. Edited by Albert N. 
Mancini and Dino S. Cervigni. 


Annali d’italianistica 1994 
The Italian Epic 
& 
Its European Context 


With the 1992 volume, Annali d’italianistica celebrates its tenth year of 
publication. The journal’s first volume, which appeared in 1983, was devoted to 
Boiardo (1441-94) and Pulci (1432-84) in commemoration of the fifth centenary 
of the publication of the Orlando innamorato (first lost edition, 1483-84) and the 
Morgante (1483). As Annali d’italianistica enters its second decade of 
publishing, the Editors would like to propose as its 1994 topic the Italian epic 
and its European context. 

The Editors’ decision to devote Ad/J 1994 to the epic within an international 
context is motivated by several intents: first, to take stock of the many and 
diverse studies that have appeared on the topic during the last decade, from 
patronage study to gender theory and from intertextuality to socio-historical 
issues; second, to probe the effectiveness of such studies in the analysis of the 
epic vis-a-vis more traditional critical approaches; and third, to evaluate the 
recent English translations of Italian epics from the perspective of contemporary 
translation theories. Accordingly, in welcoming contributions from scholars 
with different approaches, the Editors are particularly interested in studies that 
seek to explore the Italian epic not only from a perspective that is both historical 
and open to contemporary theory but that is also attentive to the Italian epic’s 
multiple interactions with its European developments. 

The quincentenary of Columbus’s first voyage to the Americas marks 
Annali d@’italianistica’s tenth volume. AdI/ will commence its second decade of 
scholarly publishing with two timely issues: Goldoni within the context of 
eighteenth-century theater in 1993, and the Italian epic within its socio-historical 
context in 1994. Thus, in selecting topics, Ad/ follows the editorial policies 
announced when the journal appeared in 1983: “Annali d’italianistica seeks to 
promote the study of Italian literature in its cultural context, to foster scholarly 
excellence, and to select topics of interest to a large number of Italianists. 
Monographic in nature, the journal is receptive to a variety of topics, critical 
approaches, and theoretical perspectives.” In accordance with this open policy, 
Adl’s topics are announced two years ahead of time, are often suggested by 
colleagues and are also discussed at national and international conferences; 
moreover, contributors include scholars from overseas; and finally, the journal’s 
“Italian Bookshelf” offers a comprehensive overview of Italian studies. 

Mindful that Ad/’s success is due to its apertura toward its readers and to the 
readers’ valued cooperation, the Editors intend to continue the journal’s 
publication according to the intent declared at its founding in order to serve its 
international readership and to foster Italian studies in North America in close 
collaboration with scholars overseas. 


Dino S. Cervigni 


An Introduction 


October 12, 1992 





The seventeen contributors of this tenth volume of Annali d’ italianistica seek to 
analyze images of America and Columbus in Italian literature. The vantage point 
of these investigations is provided by the quincentenary of Columbus’s first 
voyage: 1492-1992. This half-millennium, however, hardly offers historians and 
literary critics an unquestioned perspective from which they can confidently 
assess Columbus’s legacy throughout its five centuries of history. Thus, when 
the two editors of this volume announced the Columbian topic in 1990, they 
wrote: “Although historical knowledge about Columbus’s life and 
accomplishments is incomplete or controversial, groups and individuals in both 
Europe and America have employed the image of Columbus to embody their 
ideologies and to give legitimacy to their goals. The debate on the significance 
and impact of Columbus’s voyages is still open” (Ad/ 8 [1990]: 4). Accordingly, 
the seventeen essays featured in this volume focus on the proposed topic from 
various perspectives and present diverse images of America and Columbus 
throughout Italian literature. 


1. Interpreting and Reinterpreting History 

Unquestionably, the process of interpreting and reinterpreting history — in this 
specific case, Columbus’s voyage to America as well as its legacy — is not at 
all peculiar to our epoch, but rather it began precisely at the time when 
Columbus first set foot on the land he thought to be the Indies. And yet, this 
Columbian Quincentenary is critical of Columbus, and of all that the name of 
Columbus stands for, more sharply so than any of its previous centennial 
celebrations.! Thus, although most of us would tend to think that the present 
historical moment is particularly involved in this reinterpretive process, 
interpreting what used to be called the “discovery of America” began precisely 
when Columbus first saw the New World and its inhabitants. That initial 
experience has been transmitted to us through Columbus’s first letter as well as 
through its countless editions and translations. 


1 One of its lowest points has perhaps been reached through Wechsler’s novelistic parody, 
Columbus a la Mode, a literary genre for which he coins a new word, “ulnography”: namely, “a 
fresh form of humor combining parody and biography, the new genre thus a hybrid of ulnar nerve, 
funny bone, and writing about the life of a person famous enough to have ‘at least one of [his] 
bubbles . . . burst, if not the subject himself” (Holloway). 


6 Dino S. Cervigni 


David Citino’s “poetic version” of Columbus’s first letter must be situated 
and understood precisely within this endless process of reading and rereading 
history in which Columbus himself participated. Introducing his version of 
Columbus’s letter, Citino comments: “Sailing with the Navigator to the so- 
called New World and back again, we journey as well all the way to our own age 
and even deep into our own selves, body and soul, heart and mind. Island- 
hopping with this complex figure we survey the route to here and now even as 
we explore that land of once-upon-a-time when Europe, thinking it had 
discovered something truly new, actually discovered, named, and defined itself for 
future generations.”* Very appropriately, therefore, Citino emphasizes that every 
process of reading and rereading history actually engages not only — and perhaps 
not even prominently — the past, but also, and perhaps especially, oneself and 
one’s vantage point. 

Accordingly, looking at that primordial encounter which took place in 1492, 
Theodore J. Cachey speaks of “Rewriting the New World Encounter” as “a topos 
of a discourse about America and the meaning of 1492” which began “in 1492, 
and continues unabated.” Cachey situates the process of rewriting encounters 
between two significant texts: on the one hand, the Decades de orbe novo (first 
in three books: Seville, 1511; Alcala, 1516; posthumously in eight books: 
Alcala, 1530) by Pietro Martire d’Anghiera (1457-1526); on the other, 
Marvelous Possessions (October 1991) by Stephen Greenblatt. In Peter Martyr’s 
Latin writings on the New World Cachey sees the projection “of the ideals of a 
Humanist culture fresh from its encounter with the alterity of a ‘newly 
discovered’ world of antiquity.” The Italian Humanist “thus rewrote the New 
World encounter through the filter of an exhilarating High Renaissance renewal 
of encounter with human diversity taking the form of the classical world.” By 
contrast, the New Historicist Greenblatt displays “an openness to emotional and 
psychological identification and sympathy with other cultures and the 
phenomena of cultural diversity.” To be sure, Cachey is unwilling to accept 
uncritically either the position of the Humanist Peter Martyr, that of the 
contemporary New Historicist Greenblatt, or that of Montaigne’s Essays, from 
which Greenblatt — as Cachey points out — extrapolates “his own position of 
New Historicist radical ambivalence and ambiguity.” Cachey in fact sees no 
alternatives in this continuous act of rereading and rewriting: “For even if we are 
incomplete and unsteady and alihough we may be go-betweens who do not know 
whom God loves and whom He hates, we nevertheless are called upon inevitably 
and continually to choose and be chosen, to exclude and be excluded, to possess 


2 Citino’s work first appeared as A Letter of Columbus (for which see also Cachey’s review). 
Columbus’s original letter in Spanish was first published in Barcelona, March-April 1493 (Colén, 
Textos y documentos), followed by a Latin version appeared in Rome in May 1493. See Henige for 
the traditions and translations of this text; in Italian, Scritti di Cristoforo Colombo; Diario di bordo. 


An Introduction 7 


and be possessed.” 

When, partaking of this process of interpreting and reinterpreting, 
Columbus and his contemporaries judged the people of the New World, they 
often did so through reelaborating the millenary myth of the golden age and the 
noble savage. Within this context, Stelio Cro outlines the development of the 
myth of the noble savage from its classical and biblical origins to Dante’s 
Comedy, to the writings of Poggio Bracciolini, and, after Columbus’s voyages, 
to those of Peter Martyr, Montaigne, and Campanella. After the Patristic and 
medieval interpretation of the innocent “prima gente” (Purgatorio 1:24), Cro sees 
the myth’s secular renewal through Bracciolini’s rereading of Tacitus’s 
description of the primitive Germans. Another accomplished Humanist, Peter 
Martyr, adapts the myth of the golden age and its innocent people to the new 
reality of the recently discovered lands. Finally, Campanella reinterprets the age- 
old myth of the noble savage within the context of a renewed Catholic Church.* 

The encounter with the indigenous people of the New World not only 
challenged the Humanists in their reelaborations of the age-old myth of the noble 
savage; it also confronted the Catholic Church, which since the very beginning 
saw as its task the conversion of the new people to Christianity. Thus, 
Dominicans, Franciscans, and later Jesuits joined forces, although not always 
amicably, to convert the native populations. Paola Zito focuses on certain 
aspects of this process of evangelization, which the Jesuits pursued following 
“una mediazione ideologica destinata ad ampie e complesse ripercussioni.” On 
the one hand, in agreement with the supporters of the myth of the noble savage, 
the evangelizers welcomed the indigenous populations’ natural religiosity; on the 
other, any refusal on the part of the natives to accept Christianity was attributed 
to the devil’s interference. The Jesuits’ work of evangelization is documented 
through several versions of the Catechismo romano and the Relationi. While the 
Catechismo canonized the rhetorical manner of conveying Christianity to the 
native populations, the Relationi informed the religious communities in Europe 
of the progress of Christianity in the New World following an already common 
rhetorical pattern: as to the indigenous populations, resistance to the new faith 
but also mass conversions, and, as to the missionaries, heroic virtues often 
times crowned by martyrdom. Throughout those Relationi a narrative pattern 
emerges whereby the indigenous population, although pagan, oftentimes appears 
less corrupt than the Christian community, the Relationi’s intended audience. 

Thus the reinterpretation of the New World encounter confronted not only 


3 For additional bibliography on recent volumes on discovery/conquest of the Americas see 
Mancini, “Nuovo e Vecchio Mondo.” 

4 To Cro’s bibliography on the topic of the noble savage one must add an additional study, which 
Mancini’s quotes and briefly discusses in his essay’s introductory paragraph; namely, Romeo’s Le 
scoperte americane nella coscienza italiana del Cinquecento, first published in 1954 and recently 
republished in 1989. See also the recently published essay by Melzi, with bibliography. 


8 Dino S. Cervigni 


Humanism, in its pursuit of the millenary myth of the golden age, but also 
Christianity’s belief in humankind’s corrupted nature and its possible spiritual 
restoration through Christ. In the Old Continent, the process of reinterpreting 
the New World encounter brought about not so much a greater understanding of 
each other but rather a deeper awareness of oneself as different from the other, as 
Lucia Binotti discusses in her essay. Binotti focuses on the rereading of the 
Spanish chronicles of the conquest by two Humanists of the first half of the 
Cinquecento from the Veneto region. Binotti’s starting point is that after the 
second quarter of the sixteenth century the Italian public no longer depended 
exclusively on accounts of the conquest of New World written in Spanish, since 
Italian translations became also available. Hence she argues that the Spanish 
chronicles’ translations, especially in their prologues, offered these two writers 
and their readers a unique opportunity to distance themselves from the view of 
the Spanish conquistadores. Binotti focuses on two such rereadings 
(chronologically separated by about twenty-five years): the preface that Niccolo 
Liburnio (ca. 1475-1557) wrote for his translation of Hernan Cortés’s Carta 
segunda, and the Discorso sulle Indie that Giovanni Battista Ramusio (1485- 
1557) premised to the accounts of the Spanish conquests of the New World in 
his Navigazioni e viaggi. Ultimately, Binotti argues, through the translation of 
the Spanish crdnicas, Liburnio and Ramusio go beyond the ongoing important 
process of rereading the New World encounter; they enable the Italian readers not 
only to distance themselves from the Spaniards but also to become aware of their 
heritage and thereby project themselves toward the future.° 

The next two essays link this volume’s first section, which focuses on the 
reinterpretations of history, with the second section, which focuses on the 
images of Columbus’s voyages through literature. 

Luigi Avonto brings to light the account of a Genoese sailor’s shipwreck 
and survival a /a Robinsoe Crusoe on a Caribbean island from the Spring of 
1528 to the Fall of 1536. Interesting in itself, the Genoese sailor’s Relacién 
assumes an even greater importance not only for its mention in Oviedo’s 
Historia general y natural de las Indias but also for its possible rewriting in 
Garcilaso El Inca’s Comentarios reales. Thus, since its very commencement, the 
history of the voyages to the New World mingles with their poetic rewritings. 

In the next essay Andrea Battistini reminds us that hardly one-hundred years 
after Columbus’s first voyage, foreigners and Italians engaged in controversies 
surrounding the European countries’ conquest of the Americas. Just as Jason’s 
and the Argonauts’ journey brought about destruction and death, so also did 
Columbus’s voyage, as Giordano Bruno may have suggested in his Cena delle 
ceneri.® Furthermore, vis-a-vis the accomplishments of another Italian, Galileo 


5 On the same issue (the Italian readers of the Spanish Historie), although from a different 
perspective, see Pallotta. 
“han ritrovato il modo di perturbar la pace altrui, violar i patrii genii de le reggioni, di 


An Introduction 9 


Galilei, Columbus’s undertaking assumed a secondary role, since the latter’s 
“earthly” pursuit was thought to be amply surpassed by the former’s “heavenly” 
discoveries. Joannes Faber’s “Cedas, Vespuci, cedatque Columbus” and Segett’s 
“Vicisti, Galilaee!” (quoted by Battistini) cannot but be read as rewritings of 
Columbus’s history.” 


2. Columbus’s Voyages through Literature 

This continued process of writing and rewriting, interpreting and reinterpreting 
history is conducted not only through historiography but also through myriad 
literary texts, as the next seven essays exemplify. Literature, in fact, is willing 
to explore what David Marsh calls “the uneasy relationship” between “fact and 
fiction in travel literature,” which on “the quincentenary of Columbus’ voyage 
. .. looms large on our cultural horizons.” And yet, literature’s explorations of 
such an uneasy relationship carries — oftentimes more markedly so than 
historiography — all the signs of the prevailing ideology, as Albert N. 
Mancini’s essay on Giorgini’s epic clearly demonstrates. Precisely for these 
reasons, this “uneasy relationship” between “fact and fiction” brings about 
further rereadings of Columbus’s voyages and legacy. 

Within such a context, Marsh examines “three travel narratives, one ancient 
and two modern, with a focus on authorial attitudes toward voyages and 
veracity.” Using as a model of exploration narratives Lucian’s True Story, “‘a 
parody of travel literature which exposes the ambiguities inherent in the genre,” 
Marsh examines the extant logs of Columbus’s first voyage (1492-93) and 
Pigafetta’s account of the first circumnavigation of the globe by Magellan in 
1519-22. Descriptions of foreign places and cultures display incomprehension 
and hyperbole that ultimately subvert their veracity. Also, looking at the 
different languages used by the chroniclers of the late Middle Ages and 
Renaissance explorations — the Franco-Venetian dialect of Marco Polo’s 
amanuensis, the Spanish of the Genoese Colombo, the Latin of the Tuscan 
Vespucci, and the French of the Venetian Pigafetta — Marsh further suggests 
that an “investigation into the foggier realms of historiography must take into 
account another less material boundary, namely, the demarcations of language.” 

The next two essays by Albert N. Mancini and Marzio Pieri focus on two 
epic poems devoted to Columbus. To begin with, Mancini reminds us that so 
many are the epic poems dealing with the Columbian subject matter — from 





confondere quel che la provida natura distinse . . .” (Bruno 31; qtd. by Battistini). 

The comparison between “earthly” and “heavenly” discoveries has not at all ceased. And yet, 
contemporary astronomers may have forgotten Galileo in favor of Columbus, when they chose 
October 12, 1992 to begin searching the heavens for other new worlds. “Like Columbus, these 
new explorers have overcome ridicule and opposition, persevering in a fervent belief in their 
enterprise. Unlike Columbus, they set out knowing that if they succeed, there will be no pot of gold 
at the end, but there could be an exciting and bewildering awakening to the smallness of all 
previous concepts of life” (The New York Times, October 13, 1992, C1). 


10 Dino S. Cervigni 


Tassoni’s fragments entitled Oceano to Guidubaldo Benamati’s Mondo nuovo to 
the homonymous poem by Stigliani to Marino’s Columbian treatment in his 
Adone — that they constitute a true epic subgenre.® 

Writing about one-hundred years after the events, Giovanni Giorgini (1535- 
1575) was not only one of the first poets to see Columbus’s undertaking as a 
subject matter suitable for an epic; more importantly, he first brought to 
completion such a project, and published his Mondo nuovo in 1596. Mancini’s 
extensive treatment of the poem cannot be easily summarized. Among the epic 
poem’s predominant themes are: the prevalence of Spain’s monarchic ideology, 
whereby history becomes subservient to the Spanish crown’s imperial politics 
and King Ferdinand thus receives larger shrift than Columbus; the delineation of 
Columbus as an exemplary Christian leader; and the encounter of the Europeans 
with the indigenous populations, marked by conflicts and clashes as well as 
edifying conversions. Thus Giorgini, Mancini concludes, looks at Columbus’s 
discoveries from the perspective of a supporter of the political system. 
Coherently organized, Giorgini’s Mondo creato reflects his epoch’s overall 
acceptance of that generally conformist, Eurocentric, and philo-Hispanic attitude 
that characterized the second half of the Cinquecento in Italy. Mancini’s analysis 
of Giorgini’s poem thus gains importance from the current debate over 
Columbus and his legacy. 

To the same epic subgenre belongs Tommaso Stigliani’s Mondo nuovo, on 
which Marzio Pieri has conducted extensive research (see note 9 of his essay) and 
whose two distinct versions, as he has argued, he is presently preparing. 
Stigliani’s poem first appeared in Piacenza in an imperfect edition of twenty 
cantos in 1617, when Stigliani was a courtier at the service of Duke Ranuccio 
Farnese. The poem’s second edition in thirty-four cantos appeared in Rome in 
1628, after Stigliani had left the Farneses. What Pieri points out in Stigliani’s 
poem — in brief, the courtier’s inability to become poetically engrossed in the 
Columbian undertakings — is nevertheless in agreement with Giorgini’s 
endorsement of the Spanish crown’s ideology. 

And yet, that Europe may in fact be moving not just toward another 
rereading of the conquest of the Americas — a process at work since its earliest 
moment — but toward any rereading’s lowest point, i.e., parody and farce, 
becomes abundantly clear in the dramma per musica by Gerolamo Gigli (1660- 
1722) entitled Atalipa. Franco Vazzoler analyzes this musical drama, which 
Gigli wrote toward the end of the seventeenth century. Insofar as the “discovery” 
of America involved a voyage, whom can we expect to find in a pre-Columbian 
Peru but the parodic knight errant par excellence, Cervantes’s Don Quijote? 
Having thus become the antitype of the Genoese sailor in a fictional epoch that 
precedes both Columbus and Cervantes’s masterpiece, and thus his own 
existence as a literary character, Gigli’s Don Quijote parodies (from a European 


8 On Tassoni’s and Benamati’s epic poems see the recent article by Marchegiani Jones. 


An Introduction 11 


viewpoint) not only, and not even primarily, Columbus but also the European 
civilization of the New World. 

Thus, within two centuries of Columbus’s first voyage, Giorgini’s, 
Stigliani’s, and Gigli’s treatments of the Columbian subject matter, ranging 
from apotheosis to parody, seem to complete the gamut of all possible 
representations of the topic. The next two essays — the first by Stefania 
Buccini, the second by Franklin C. Cacciuto — further document the Columbian 
theme’s literary variations. 

Buccini’s essay focuses on Goldoni’s theatre as an exemplification of the 
eighteenth-century’s way of looking at the Americas, a perspective which 
continuously oscillates between the two poles of narrative representation, from 
parody to romance, and one which also provides the Old Continent with the 
opportunity to look at others with a pretext of further looking at itself. In the 
Age of Reason, the Americas’ native people, whom Rousseau viewed as 
illustrative of his concept of the human natural condition, are either looked upon 
with some scepticism or are endowed with the social graces of that century’s 
salons, thus opening the way to bourgeois representations verging on the comic. 
Goldoni’s tragicomedies La peruviana (1754) and La bella selvaggia (1758), 
which neither celebrate nor parody the New World, interpret the eighteenth- 
century audience’s sensibility toward the exotic within an accepted ideology that 
does not subvert but rather consolidates the enlightened bourgeosie’s respectable 
conquests. The New World, Buccini concludes, enters the eighteenth-century’s 
theatrical universe not to delude the dreams of Settecento’s Enlightenment but to 
“spargere semi di bella filosofia” (Goldoni, La bella 818; qtd. by Buccini). 

With a plethora of information on so many historians, biographers, and 
novelists who wrote about Columbus during the last two-hundred years, 
Cacciutto’s essay bridges the period that goes from Goldoni’s theatrical 
representations to Columbus: A Romance (1942) by Rafael Sabatini, for, as 
Kenneth Clark states in his “personal” view of Western civilization, we are now 
the “bankrupt heirs” of the Romantic era. Written upon the occasion of the four- 
hundred-and-fiftieth anniversary of the first voyage, Sabatini’s Columbus: A 
Romance — Cacciutto writes — presents a “romantic celebration of the 
Discoverer within the limits of his vision and ambition. . . . a dramatization of 
what within and against the great powers of Church and State an individual man, 
however heroic, can be and do.” Thus the “novel moves inward from the frame of 
fidelity to historical materials into the domain of historical romance centering 
around a stock romance beloved, the woman of sin who is in truth pure and true, 
here Beatriz. .. .” And yet, the final image is that of Columbus in chains, a 
condition that testifies, in Cacciutto’s view, to “an integral and permanent 
commitment to timeless values.” Thus “the person Columbus prevails over any 
ambivalence we may have about the personage.” 

One-hundred years had to pass for the Columbian discoveries to become a 
topic for the epic genre, which preexisted Columbus; another hundred years had 


12 Dino S. Cervigni 


to pass for the Columbian theme to be adopted by another, typically Italian 
genre, the opera, which appeared on stage one century after the earliest surviving 
opera, Jacopo Pieri’s Euridice (1600). In his essay “The Operatic Christopher 
Columbus,” Thomas Heck traces the history of three-hundred years of musical 
mythology, from the first Columbian opera, Ottoboni’s Colombo overo I’ India 
scoperta (1691), to “The Voyage,” commissioned by the Metropolitan Opera for 
its fall 1992 season. Applying New World technology to an Old World 
bibliographic problem, Heck provides a chronological bibliography of 
cantatas/oratorios/choruses, instrumental pieces, and musical plays relating to 
Columbus. Heck also writes the synopses of three Italian librettos, all forming 
an Italian-style Columbian mythology with much emphasis on amorous 
intrigues wholly ungrounded in historical facts. Thus, while further adding to the 
popularity of Columbus, the operatic genre has provided additional rewritings of 
New World experiences. 


3. The Children of Columbus? 

This volume’s last three essays deal not so much with Columbus as with 
Columbus’s children, either in South America and Italy in the 1930s (Martelli) 
or in contemporary North America (Giordano; Valesio): primarily with the 
condition of those among us who, in the wake of Columbus, left Italy and came 
to the New World. 

Sebastiano Martelli’s essay, “‘Il nume frenetico’. Gli Arii alla conquista 
dell’ America,” focuses on Massimo Bontempelli’s Noi gli Aria. Interpretazioni 
sudamericane within the context of other accounts of travels by the same author. 
Noi gli Aria was written on the boat “Virgilio” during Bontempelli’s return 
voyage (Nov. 3-18, 1933) from a three month journey through South America. 
Not only does Bontempelli rethink the meaning of the Columbian voyage and of 
the following American conquests; he also reflects on the hegemonic influence 
of Western civilization in South America vis-a-vis the Fascist regime and its 
heroes in the 1930s. 

In his essay on “Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American 
Literature,” Paolo Giordano focuses precisely on the emigrant/immigrant to the 
New World, whose condition shares so many similarities with that of the first 
Italian traveler: “Just like Columbus, the emigrant/immigrant undertook a 
voyage towards the unknown, his/her imagination fueled by stories of riches and 
by second- and third-hand accounts of life in the New World.” The 
emigrant/immigrant’s condition finds its sharpest focus in the linguistic voyage 
they must all undertake, as Joseph Tusiani aptly describes: “Then who will solve 
this riddle of my day?/ Two languages, two lands, perhaps two souls. . . .” (qtd. 
by Giordano). Thus, in their attempts to understand who they are, the same 
emigrant/immigrant must necessarily confront the diverse images of Columbus 


9 From the title of Amfitheatrof’s book. 


An Introduction 13 


embedded in American culture, which, for Giordano, are best exemplified in a 
poem by Joseph Tusiani and Anne Paolucci, respectively. Tusiani’s “Columbus 
Day in New York” transcends the historical Columbus’s “discovery” by focusing 
not only on the achievements of the Italians in America but also on their 
“despair and frustration, of being a misunderstood immigrant in a land of 
immigrants.” Anne Paolucci’s “Countdown: 1992” urges the reader to reflect on 
the positive aspects of Columbus’s “discovery” and its importance to the New 
World and its people. 

What Giordano emphasizes in the experience of all emigrant/immigrants — 
namely, “the question of language as a spiritual dilemma instead of a 
sociological problem” — assumes an added significance in Paolo Valesio’s 
essay, which focuses on “poets between two worlds.” Valesio discusses a 
cultural phenomenon, which is indirectly linked to Christopher Columbus’s 
enterprise but which is nonetheless significant as one of the aspects of the 
Columbian heritage: namely, some of the ways in which contemporary Italian 
poetry has rediscovered and keeps rediscovering the New World, operating in the 
concrete, living context of this same New World, through those who, writing in 
Italian in America, have become poets between two worlds. Thus, for Valesio, a 
subtle but strong thread connects Christopher Columbus’s poetic and Italian- 
colored Spanish usage in his Journal with the English-enriched Italian in which 
the “tribe” of Italian authors between the two worlds writes poetry today, five 
hundred years later. 


* 


One-hundred years ago, on the fourth centenary of the discovery of America, one 
could neither speak of “Italian studies” in America, as we do nowadays, nor of a 
journal exclusively devoted to Italian studies, where Italianists could ponder the 
effects of Columbus’s enterprise and its effects on the Western World. Had there 
been such a forum for discussion, one would have found in it neither the 
diversity nor the direct questioning of Columbus’s legacy characteristic of 
contemporary investigations. In a recent review essay, the co-editor of this 
volume, Albert N. Mancini, discusses some of these investigations with a 
special focus on Kirkpatrick Sale’s The Conquest of Paradise: Christopher 
Columbus and the Columbian Legacy. For Sale — Mancini writes — 
Columbus became a Romantic figure with the Columbus Exhibit held in 
Chicago in 1893: “l’incarnazione dell’ottimismo e della fede nel progresso come 
la forza dinamica della storia; e dunque l’eroe della grande epopea 
dell’emigrazione dall’Europa che dette vita alle nazioni del Nuovo Mondo, degli 
immigrati, irlandesi e italiani . . .” (“Nuovo e Vecchio Mondo” 11). Mancini’s 
analysis points out what is fundamental but also misleading in Sale’s thesis. Its 
relevance resides in its ethnological, sociological, and historical investigation of 
the genesis of eurocentrism as a universal model for all civilizations as well as 
the ongoing attempts of the American countries to understand and define their 


14 Dino S. Cervigni 


own identities away from the European model; its misleading character affects 
the way it presents Columbus as uniquely responsible for all the condemnable 
heresies of our time, from eurocentrism to imperialism and elitism. 

Within such a controversial climate, this volume’s seventeen essays have 
sought to analyze Columbus and his legacy in a context respectful of historical 
events without, however, attempting to celebrate Columbus acritically. Thus 
these essays have provided a series of images of Columbus and his legacy by 
focusing on the continued rewritings of that primordial New World encounter.!° 

Today’s editorial in The New York Times (October 12, 1992) aptly 
summarizes the approach to Columbus at work in most of these essays: 
“Michelangelo was a teenager when Columbus sailed west. Leonardo da Vinci 
was 40. It was a long time ago. A different time. And that’s a point to remember 
on this 500th anniversary of the great explorer’s first landing in the Americas. . . 
. Even today, whether they’re called Indians or Native Americans, they are 
commonly considered to have been one people. They were not. Some were 
warriors, others peaceful. Some denied their women equal standing with men; 
others had women as chiefs. They spoke languages as different as Swedish and 
Swahili. By now, it’s no secret that Columbus and those who came after him 
abused the natives, drove them from their land and introduced European diseases 
that decimated the population. While this point has been raised and repeated 
through the better part of the five centuries, it has perhaps never been so widely 
recognized as now. Yet it is unfair to burden Columbus with all the depredations 
that followed his voyage as it is to credit him alone with the development of the 
Western hemisphere. It is enough that a long and different time ago, he opened 
the way.” 

Accordingly, this volume, attempting neither to celebrate nor to absolve 
Columbus, has also sought to avoid the danger Cachey sees lurking in 
contemporary stands of radical ambiguity and ambivalence; namely, “the attempt 
to write around and evade another more violent history in the making, and one 
no less blind than that of 1492.” 

And yet, history, as is condemns the destructions and genocide brought 
about by Europe’s conquest of the Americas, should perhaps be kinder to 
Columbus the historical person as he appears to us in his life’s last moments. 
For in fact the image of Columbus, who is in chains and is brought back to 
Spain, as well as that of the dying Columbus in the disgraced solitude of 
Valladolid — away from the lands he discovered and mistakenly viewed as the 


10 On this aspect Mancini wnites in his essay: “Continuare a misurare l’occasione di questa linea di 
pensiero ‘militante’ del conflitto Europa-Nuovo Mondo, anche nell’epica cosiddetta colombiana, 
rimane, mi pare, un obbligo impreteribile dell’interrogazione storica contemporanea sulla genesi 
dell’eurocentrismo come modello universale di civilta. Fin dal primo sbarco di Colombo, l’ America 
ha rappresentato per gli europei, anche per quelli trasferiti oltreoceano dunque, un problema 
spinoso, il problema dell’“altro da sé’” (Mancini). 


An Introduction 15 





Indies, and also away from his native Genoa — can perhaps be viewed within the 
context of Manzoni’s “provvida sventura.” Following that act of “taking 
possessions,” Columbus too was defeated and died an exile in a foreign country. 
In his life’s last years, then, his condition was not at all dissimilar from that of 
the thousands and millions of people who inhabited the lands Columbus opened 
to the conquest of Europe’s powerful countries and who became foreigners on 
their own lands. 


The University of N. Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Works Cited 


Amfitheatrof, Erik. The Children of Columbus. An Informal History of the Italians in 
the New World. Boston: Little, Brown, 1973. 

Cachey, Theodore J., Jr. Review of A Letter of Columbus, by David Citino. V/A. 
Voices in Italian Americana. A Literary and Cultural Review 3.1 (1992): 122-26. 

Colombo, Cristoforo. Diario di bordo. Libro della prima navigazione e scoperta delle 
Indie. Ed. G. Ferro. Milano: Mursia, 1985. 

. Scritti di Cristoforo Colombo. Ed. Cesare De Lollis. Roma: Ministero della 

Pubblica Istruzione, 1892. 

Colén, Cristébal. Textos y documentos completos. Relaciones de viaje, cartas y 
memoriales. Ed. Consuleo Varela. Madrid: Alianza, 1984. 

Holloway, Watson L. Review of Columbus a la Mode, by Robert Wechsler. American 
Book Review 14.3 (August-September 1992): 1. 

Mancini, Albert N. “Nuovo e Vecchio Mondo.” Esperienze letterarie 17.1 (1992): 3- 
ley 

Marchegiani Jones, Irene. “Alessandro Tassoni e Guidobaldo Benamati: poeti 
dell’impresa di Colombo.” /talica 69.3 (1992): 410-20. 

Melzi, Robert C. “Gli Amerindi e gli storici italiani del secolo XVI.” JI lettore di 
provincia 24.84 (sept. 1992): 3-17. 

Pallotta, Augustus. “The New World and Italian Readers of the Spanish Historie in the 
Sixteenth Century.” Jtalica 69.3 (1992): 345-58. 

Romeo, Rosario. Le scoperte americane nella coscienza italiana del Cinquecento. 
1954. Pref. Rosario Villari. Roma: Laterza, 1989. 

Wechsler, Robert. Columbus a la Mode. Highland Park, NJ: Garrigue Books/Catbird 
Press, 1992. 


David Citino 


A Letter of Columbus 


A Preface to A Letter of Columbus 


The investigation — intellectual, political, geographical, cultural, poetical — of 
the individual who is associated with what must be seen as the most momentous 
and significant event of the Age of Exploration can be a most valuable voyage of 
discovery for our own age. The celebrations (and even the protests) currently 
taking place around the globe represent an all-too-rare moment when the world 
pauses to consider collectively one of the major steps on its voyage to the 
present. 

Sailing with the Navigator to the so-called New World and back again, we 
journey as well all the way to our own age and even deep into our own selves, 
body and soul, heart and mind. Island-hopping with this complex figure we 
survey the route to here and now even as we explore that land of once-upon-a- 
time when Europe, thinking it had discovered something truly new, actually 
discovered, named, and defined itself for future generations. 

The poem that appears below is an attempt to render into contemporary 
poetical language and idiom the famous letter written by Cristoforo Coiombo to 
Ferdinand and Isabella in 1493, on the return from his first voyage. I have 
sought to present various dramatic and rhetorical aspects of the situation, 
foremost among them the fact that this was written as an actual letter preparing 
the way for Columbus, who both relished and dreaded his coming audience with 
the royals; yet I have wanted above all to be true to the actual words which he 
wrote. 

In the letter, the explorer outlines to the patrons of the voyage the wonders 
which he has discovered, while he outlines as well the wonders which he has not 
found but which the king and queen had been led to expect him to bring back. 
Columbus is the explorer of his poem, but also the dutiful-sounding subject of 
earthly and divine kingdoms; and more than anything else, he is human. Thus, I 
have found it necessary at times, in considering both audience and text, to write 
between the lines of the letter, in the attempt to find and then to emphasize the 
poetry in the letter, in the voyage and in the man. 


A Letter of Columbus |# 


A letter of Columbus 


Highnesses: I write to give you news 

of a new and glorious age, the other world 

we have sought since the day this one turned cold on us. 
Our Lord placed His priceless crown at the tip of my masts. 
Take your pleasure at this: 

In a mere 33 days I made the Indies with the fleet 

you gave me, illustrious King and Queen, 

found many islands tenanted by numberless peoples, 
and took them all for you, announcing it loudly 

with the royal standard singing in sea winds, 

and — miraculous as it is to say — not a soul objected. 


The first island became San Salvador, to honor 
His Majesty who bled to bathe us in this glory. 
(The Indians call it Guanahani.) The second 

I named Isla de Santa Maria de la Concepcion; 
the third, Fernandina; the fourth La Isla Isabela; 
the fifth, La Isla Juana; and on and on. 

A new Adam, I gave names to every place. 


At Juana, caressing the westward coast, 

I found it so long I knew as surely as the Holy Name 
it had to be China. I was so certain! 

But since this shore had not a single city, 

only clumps and clumps of fetid huts, 

and since the folk fled at the sight of us 

before I could speak to them, I stayed the course, 
knowing that, keeping the rudder steady, 

I would not fail to find great cities, 

all the wealth our age aches for. 

Many, many leagues later, the land bearing me north 
onto the rolling shoals of bitter winter, 

I grew distressed, retraced our three wakes 

and made safe harbor. From there 

I sent two men upland to seek out kings 

befitting all of history’s striving. 

Three days away, and they found only villages 

and people, people, people — nothing of value. 

So back they came, heads hung low. 


18 


David Citino 


Some Indians I had taken warned me 

I was chasing the wind, this was only an island, 

so after I had gone 107 leagues eastward 

to where land vanished into sea, from the cape 

I spied another island, 18 leagues off. 

It became Hispaniola when I tongued the word, 
and I followed its northern part for all 

of 178 great, straight leagues. As is Juana, 

all the islands I claimed are most fertile — 
excessively so — and this was no exception. 

Its coast blossoms with many harbors, 

finer than Christendom’s finest, rivers 

as bountiful as they are deep and sweet. 

Its lands thrust up hosts of sierras 

of a thousand heavenly attitudes, to which 

none on our dear Tenerife can compare. 

The different trees there do not drop their leaves, 

I was assured, and I saw them as green in November 
as Spain in May, and inhabited 

by the nightingale and his million singing minions. 
Six or eight kinds of palm tree, 

fruits and herbs, groves of pine, grape, honey, 

and the grandest plains — plenty is the real name 
of this land. (Much wealth there is 

under God’s dome, I have discovered, besides gold.) 
Upland I happened on great mines, countless tribes. 
Hispaniola is a marvel of sierras and plains, 

a virgin land ripe for planting, sowing, 

the building of cities and towns. 

Rivers run with spice and gold, 

harbors are deep and still, everything 

about this paradise so wonderful it is like 

those miracles that even true believers 

cannot accept until, like Doubting Thomas, 

they witness first-hand, and then they see. 


The people of these islands, men and women, 
go naked as their mothers bore them, except 
that some women cover that one place only 
with leaf or cotton net fashioned 

for that pretty purpose. They have 

no iron or steel weapons — nor could they 
use them if they did. While they are comely 


A Letter of Columbus 19 


and well-built, they are wonderfully fearful 

at the merest scent of us. Cane stalks are all 
their arms, cut at seed-time and tipped 

with sharpened sticks. They do not 

have the heart to use even these; 

often the two or three men I sent to talk with them 
have scattered whole hordes, who fled 

the moment they set eyes on them. (Are we 
that frightening, we bearers of faith and arms, 
that a father would not stay with his son? 
Whatever do they have to fear from us?) 

Their timorousness is not a result 

of harm we have done; on the contrary, 

the few times I have been able to speak with them 
I have given them all that I had, 

red caps, hawks’ bells, glass beads, 

without asking anything in return. 

They are timid nearly beyond redemption. 

But after they have abandoned fear, after 
countless reassurances, freely and artlessly 
they give all that they have. 

Their generosity is not to be believed. 

Ask for anything that is theirs: 

they have not discovered No, 

but rather invite you to share, and show 

as much love as if along with it 

comes their very souls. And whether they give 
great thing or trifle, they are content 

with anything you give in return. 


A piece of glass or broken strap thrills them. 
I had to give orders forbidding such dealings 
after a sailor for a worn strap received 

a guinea and a half of purest gold. 

For a pittance, a few mere coppers, 

they would part with their every possession, 
even chunks of gold or bales of spun cotton. 
They once took pieces of the broken hoops 
of our wine casks, and gave their all 

in return, so that I began to think it wrong, 
and forbade it, because I wanted them 

to grow fond of us, even to be made Christian, 
to learn the love of serving your Highnesses 


David Citino 


and Castile. I wanted them to want to help us 
by offering freely those riches they have 
in abundance and we feel we need. 


They know neither false sect nor idolatry, 
except they believe that the source 

of all goodness and power is the sky, 

and fervently believe that I, 

with these three ships and all my men, 
sailed down from heaven. Everywhere 

we went, once they mastered their fear, 
they greeted me as something heavenly, 

a god riding down on his lightning bolt. 
This is not a result of ignorance, 

for their keen intelligence enables them 

to navigate all these seas, and they know 
so much about their world; it is just that 
they have never seen people dressed as we, 
or shipped rigged out like ours. 

They are children in our presence, 

so wonderful and new they make us out to be, 
as I become in theirs, I must admit. 


Upon arriving in the Indies, on the first island 

I came upon, I took some of the people 

by force, so that I could teach them Castilian 
and they could lesson me the lore 

of their land. Before too long, 

by sign and speech we understood one another, 
and they have been of great service. 

I have them with me still, and to this day, 

after so much intercourse with me, 

day-to-day proof of the mere and mortal man 

I am — sweat, sinew, bone and flesh — they believe 
my native country to be heaven. This 

they would trumpet wherever we went, running 
from hut to hut with loud cries: “Come, Come, 
See the people who fell from the sky!” 

All came running, women and men — as soon 
as we had won their confidence — and not a one, 
young or old, stayed behind, but brought 

food and drink, which they accompanied 

with earnest and perfect acts of love. 


A Letter of Columbus 


On all the islands they have many canoes, 

much like our rowing fusta, some a full 18 benches. 
They are not as broad as our boats, as 

theirs are hewn of a single log, but a fusta 

could never keep up with them. 

With sheerest speed, they navigate 

their innumerable islands, and carry 

all their goods. In some of these boats 

I have seen as many as 70 or 80 men, 

each expertly wielding his oar. 


I see no great difference among people 

of the several islands, in visage, ways or words. 
They are able to speak to one another 

across countries — a singular thing, to us 

from Christian lands — which will make it easy 
to convert them to our faith, toward which 

they seem inclined, if that is what 

your Highnesses decide to do. 


To continue my narrative: I said I had gone 

107 leagues in a straight line from west to east 
along Juana’s coast, and found this island 

to be larger than England and Scotland combined. 
For beyond these 107 leagues to the west 

are two provinces, which I have not seen, 
which must be at least 50 or 60 leagues long. 
(In this world every place seems plotted 

on a grander scale, each day shining 

with the promises we knew in youth.) 

One is called Avan, and its people, I am told, 
are born with tails. (My Indian guides 

are unimpeachable sources.) The other, 
Espanola, is greater in circuit than all of Spain, 
from Collioure in the Gulf of Lyons 

around the entire peninsula to Fuenterrabia 

on the Biscay Bay; this I know, 

as I sailed one side for 188 great leagues. 


Here I claimed everyone and everything 
for your Highnesses, a land and people 
more richly endowed than I have words to tell, 


Ze 


David Citino 


yours to rule and dispose of absolutely, 

even as you do the furthest reaches of Castile. 
This is the land of all desire, which, 

once seeded with our wisdom, 

never must be ceded to the state 

of its former fallowness. 


On this very island — in a most convenient spot, 
with the best prospect for gold mines 

and trade of all sorts both with this continent 
and the China of Grand Khan (where 

I envision great commerce and profit) — 

I have found a large town. I named it 

Villa de la Navidad, and built there 

a fort, which by the time you receive this 

will be completed. I manned it 

with a sufficient force, and a year’s worth 

of arms, artillery and supplies. 

I left a fusta with them, and a master-carpenter 
versed in all sea-arts, to oversee 

the building of more boats. I made 

great friendship with the king of that land; 

so much a friend did I make him 

that he took to calling me Brother. 

Even if he should cease to be my brother 

and offer insult or injury to the men 

I left behind — treasons his world 

may learn from ours — neither he nor his people 
know the first thing about fighting. 

They blithely go about stark naked — as I 
have said — and are the most timid people 

on earth. If worst comes to worst, 

those few men I left would have no trouble 
laying waste to all that land. 

The island is without danger for them — 

as long as they behave themselves, that is. 


The men on these islands seem content 

with one woman, but to their King they give 
as many as 20. The women seem to work 
harder than the men. They don’t hold 

private property, but all share 

in everything each has — 


A Letter of Columbus 


even their daily sustenance. 
Surely their ways are not our own. 


Here is a further wonder: on no island 

have I found a single monstrosity, as many 
after Mandeville warned I would. 

No one-eyed dwarves, basilisks, 

monkey-men or hermaphrodites. 

On the contrary, beauty is famous 

among them. Not the Negroes of Guinea, 
they have flowing hair, and are not 

born out in stark, excessive sun. 

It is true that here the sun can blaze 

like burning pitch itself, but the land 

stands a full 26 degrees from the equator. 

In the islands lifted by great mountains, 

the cold this winter was fierce, but they 
weather it because they are inured to it, 

and because they take their food with spices 
that are so wondrously hot no tongue can tell. 
No monsters, nor report of any, except 

on the second island at the Indies’ entrance, 
inhabited by a fearsome tribe who take delight 
in human flesh. In their many canoes 

they range over all the islands of India, 
pillaging what they can. No less comely 

than the others, they do wear their hair 

long as women. They use bows and arrows 
tipped with the same stems of cane, 

for they have no iron. They cut 

a broad swath through their neighbors — 
through those perfect cowards, I mean — 

but I do not fear these ferocious ones. 

They have intercourse with the women of Matremonio, 
the first island on the way from Spain 

to the Indies — an island without a single man. 
(Thus these women have no reason to be 
particular as to whom they grant admittance.) 
They do no womanly thing, except to take 

an occasional man, but arm themselves 

with bows and arrows, sheathing 

well-formed limbs with copper armor, 

of which they have a great supply. 


23 


24 


David Citino 


On another island, the people are bald 

as can be. Here there is gold beyond dreaming, 
and from it and the other islands 

I bring back with me the irrefutable evidence: 
Indians, new-land people in the flesh. 

You will see and hear, and marvel at them, 
and have no choice but to believe. 


Highnesses: I must close. I have spoken 
only of the things I have accomplished 
on this hurried voyage, yet you can see 
that I am in a position to offer you — 

if only you will look my way 

and that of my children for a time — 

a treasure of all treasures: as much gold 
as you desire; spice and cotton, as much 
as you wish; gum mastic — you name the amount — 
which up to now you could get only 

in Greece on Chios, where Superb Genoa 
sells it for any price it pleases; 

aloe wood, as much as you want shipped; 
and as many slaves as you can use — I swear 
to God each will be a true non-believer, 
and thus your slaves free and clear. 

I believe that I have found, in addition, 
rhubarb and cinnamon, and no doubt 

the people I left behind will find 

a thousand other wondrous things. 

I did not take sufficient time to look 

in any place I visited, especially 

when the wind provided me good sail, 
except the town of Navidad, where 

I stayed long enough to secure it. 

(I could have discovered a great deal more 
if the ships had given me 

the good service I expected of them!) 

But I have done enough. 

And I have done more. 

The eternal God, our Lord, Who gives 

to one and all who walk His way 

victory over even the impossible (and this 
was surely that, if ever there were 


A Letter of Columbus 25 


an expedition into the world of impossibility), 
He forded the flood with me every league 

of the way, just as He hovered, as we read, 
shining and constant above Noah’s pitching decks. 
Oh yes, for although men have talked 

and even written of these lands, 

before Columbus their words were conjecture; 
I walked these beaches and brought them 

to truth, and every dreamer’s dreams to life. 
The guesses and fables, the fictions 

of all other men I made the coin of your realm. 


All my life, from earliest Genoa, 

I have had one mission: to be a Christopher 
to some new nation of this moving world — 
which any mariner can see is a curving 

of the daily flatness of the old land. 

God knows, I often felt I was drowning 
beneath the weight of God. 


Now, since our Redeemer has given you 
and all you rule this victory, 

illustrious King and Queen, let Christendom 
keenly feel our joy, make celebration 

and give solemn thanks to the Trinity 

for all the momentous history to come, 

the bounty that will spring up 

in the furrows plowed by my three ships, 
the turning of so many dark souls 

to the lights of our holy faith, 

and — afterwards, and of lesser importance, 
of course — for the profits to be gained, 
since not Spain alone but all Christian lands 
will be refreshed in worldly ways. 

I swear that I am telling you the truth, 

the whole truth on these pages, though 

it must at this time be somewhat altered 

in the telling, to be told in haste. 


Done in the caravel off the Canaries, 
15th of February, 1493 


At your service — The Admiral 


26 


David Citino 


Additional Note, Which Came With The Letter 


After I wrote this missive I found myself 
in the Sea of Castile, when fast as thought 
there gathered and rose up against me 

so fierce a storm from south and southwest 
that I was obliged to ease the ships 

and try to ride it out, to bide my time. 

It is the sailor’s fondest hope 

that for every dark, ill-laden wind 

there blows a corresponding good. 

So it came to me, as miraculously today 

I was driven into the port of Lisbon. 

All the old seafarers of this town — 

those lifetime voyagers whose histories 
are bound in endless yards of rope and sail, 
whose eyes shine with wheeling lights 

of moon and all the million stars — 

all swear that never have they seen 

so violent a winter or such cruel loss 

of ships and men. And so 

from Lisbon I write your Highnesses, 

to give account of what otherwise 

might be judged an injudicious delay 

of the Admiral who claims he bears 

such admiral news. 


Throughout the Indies, as I have stated, 

I found only mild, mellow May weather. 
The New Land I gained in 33 days, 

and would have sped back to the Old in 28 
but for these vicious tempests, 

which a full 23 days kept me beating about 
in brackish fits and froths of furious seas. 
And now, so maddeningly close 

to the sweet, placid waters of home, 

I realize it is a home that never more 

can be dear enough to hold me fast, 

after such glorious satisfaction 

of one wayfarer’s wanderlust, 

all the shining heres and theres 

I traveled, my endeavor the map 


A Letter of Columbus 27 


that reads like the loveliest poem, 

the truth hidden deep in each human soul, 
there for the wanting and the seeking. 
Heavenly wonders I have had. 


Done on the 14th day of March. 


Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


Between Humanism and New Historicism: 
Rewriting the New World Encounter’ 





Rewriting the New World encounter, and in particular the scene of encounter 
itself, taken as a topos of the discourse about America and the meaning of 1492, 
began in 1492, and continues unabated. To write about or to render in any 
medium the scene has always implied making a statement about the meaning of 
encounter: to re-present the scene has meant to establish and explain one’s 
connection to the event. In fact, rewriting the encounter has constituted a more 
or less self-conscious act of interpretation since Columbus’s return from the first 
voyage. And as in the case of so many other topics of Americanist discourse, 
Columbus himself discovers or “invents,” in the etymological and rhetorical 
sense, the original scene of Euro-American encounter and the point of departure 
for a legacy of rewritings.! I refer to the scene on the beach, “with the royal 
standard unfurled,” and the Indians standing silently by, conjured up as 
authorizing witnesses to the legal act of taking possession: “and I was not 
contradicted,” states the Genoese. The scene was quickly impressed upon 
European awareness, thanks both to the considerable rhetorical power of its 
initial presentation in Columbus’s “Letter Announcing the Discovery” and to 
that letter’s immediate, “mechanically reproduced” circulation throughout Europe 
in over sixteen editions before 1500.7 Beyond this, while the scene of encounter 
was figured and refigured innumerable times in association with the original 
Columbian event, it was also historically re-enacted and recorded throughout the 


* This paper is the revised version of a lecture given at the Annual Meeting of the Medieval 
Academy of America in Columbus, OH, in March 1992. I would like to thank Kathleen Biddick, 
Jacqueline Vaught Brogan, Julia Douthwaite, Stephen Fallon, Barbara Green, and David Johnson 
for their comments on earlier drafts. 

The classic discussion of “discovery” vs. “invention” is in O’Gorman’s The Invention of 

America. For more recent discussion of what has since become a commonplace in the critical 
literature, see Hulme’s “Subversive Archipelagos” 13-18 and Mignolo’s “Colonial Situations” 133- 
35: 
2 See Varela’s edition for Columbus’s text, Textos y documentos: “y d’ellas todas he tomado 
posesién por Sus Altezas, con pregén y vandera real estendida, y non me fue contradicho. . .” 
(140). For an engaging (and sobering) treatment (in a more narrow philological sense than the one 
addressed here) of how the traditions of text and translation have rewritten Columbus’s text 
(beginning with Las Casas’s paraphrase of the diario) see Henige’s /n Search of Columbus. 

For the editorial history of early discovery imprints including the “Letter Announcing the 
Discovery,” see Hirsch’s “Printed Reports on the Early Discoveries and their Reception.” 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 29 


Americas time and again on countless beaches, river beds, forest clearings. We 
continue to enact it, rewrite it, when we speak of the New World encounter 
today. 


Two boats slide gracefully onto the shore and a landing party of approximately 
twenty men disembarks. The English Captain, Philip Amadas, steps jauntily 
forward, taking the lead, while the expedition’s artist John White (a Renaissance 
bello with Titianesque coloring and features) comes after, looking with wonder. 
The camera leaves behind Captain Amadas as he begins to declare the legal 
formula taking possession “in the right of the Queen’s most excellente Majestie” 
and follows instead John White as he advances up the beach and catches sight of, 
or rather encounters, the handsome and noble gaze of an Algonquian named 
Wanchese crouching among the reeds. The exchange of the gaze displaces the 
ritual of taking possession as the focus of this particular rewriting of the scene 
of encounter. There follows the next day a second landing when the Englishmen 
are greeted by a welcoming party of Algonquians. 


* * * 


Public television’s American Playhouse production of “Roanoak” vividly 
dramatized the change in perspective which has taken place since 1892:4 a switch 
from the celebration of discovery and conquest to the consideration of 1492 in 
terms of cultural encounter. This shift has largely characterized our fin de siécle 
commemoration of 1492 in the United States, particularly from a literary critical 
perspective. This contemporary outlook on 1492 is perhaps best exemplified in 
the field of Anglo-American literary criticism by the Stephen Greenblatt’s recent 
Marvelous Possessions (Oct. ’91), a work that has been judged to be the best of 
the current batch (’91-’92) of columbiana and that has also been praised by the 
Harvard cultural historian S$. Schama for its “intellectually gripping and 
penetrating discussion, its vivid engagement with the crucial issue of cross- 
cultural perceptions” (New Republic 5). But if rewriting the encounter has been 
going on from the very beginning, it is also worth recalling that the 
contemporary rediscovery of 1492 in terms of cultural encounter has a long 
history with roots that go well beyond the current debates about 
multiculturalism. The event’s earliest historiographer, Pietro Martire d’ Anghiera, 


4 Broadcast in 1986 on 26 May, 2 June, and 9 June on PBS. Directed by J. Egelson. For details 
regarding the production and a brief review of the program, see Variety 28 May 1986. 

At the opposite end of the spectrum, the book received a very negative review by Gonzaélez- 
Echevarria of Yale in the New York Times Book Review. See also reviews by Wills and Nuttal. 


30 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


otherwise known as Peter Martyr,° already conceived of the discovery in terms of 
cultural encounter. The Columbian decades of this Humanist historian’s De orbe 
novo (Seville, 1511; Alcala, 1516 and 1530) offer an illuminating sixteenth- 
century counterpoint to Marvelous Possessions. 

These two works, at opposite ends of the chronological spectrum, represent 
virtually the oldest and the most recent rewritings of the New World encounter. 
And while on the face of it the juxtaposition might appear unlikely, one need 
only recall how Peter Martyr projected onto the New World the ideals of a 
Humanist culture fresh from its encounter with the alterity of a “newly 
discovered” world of antiquity. He thus rewrote the New World encounter 
through the filter of an exhilarating high Renaissance renewal of encounter with 
human diversity in the form of the classical world. Similarly, a contemporary 
critic like Stephen Greenblatt rewrites the encounter through the filter of the 
experience of living in a “global village,” as when, in his book’s 
characteristically autobiographical and anecdotal introduction, the author 
describes himself watching television in a Balinese hamlet (together with 
villagers watching images of themselves on the VCR performing an elaborate 
temple ceremony), and later “circulating” among the enormous crowds and 
“representations” during an Indonesian Independence Day celebration (3-4).’ 
Perhaps less explicitly but no less importantly, the rewriting of the Renaissance 
encounter presented by Marvelous Possessions is informed by preoccupations 
with living in the increasingly multicultural United States and more particularly 
in the academy, where the issue of encounter between competing cultural 
diversities has come to the foreground. Moreover, the New Historicist shares 
with the earliest “incunabular” period of High Renaissance courtly New World 
encounter, before the Reformation and the Conquest of Mexico, an openness to 
emotional and psychological identification and sympathy with other cultures and 
the phenomena of cultural diversity.2 And like many contemporary readings of 


6 An Italian humanist at the Spanish court, Peter Martyr was Columbus’s confidant and author in a 
long line of “historias del nuevo mundo.” The best source currently for bibliography and 
information regarding this figure is the volume Pietro Martire d’Anghiera nella storia e nella 
cultura. Our citation below in the original Latin is taken from the Basel edition of 1533. Other page 
references, unless otherwise noted, are to the MacNutt edition. 

As Greenblatt later explains in a gloss on this Balinese anecdote, its recounting represents “a 
displaced and exotic and idealized image of the cultural mobility of late 20th century Europe and 
America” (25). The Balinese anecdote retums at a crucial moment of Greenblatt’s discussion of 
Herodotus where it is described as a “utopian reverie”: “Utopian but not altogether removed from 
a lived reality: I, Stephen Greenblatt, saw it with my own eyes. And what I witnessed in Bali, as I 
have remarked, is a reflection of what we can witness every day at home” (120). 

8 The early decades of Peter Martyr’s history present classic idealizations of the Indians as noble 
savages, the celebration of their love of liberty, an interest in their language which he says “they 
pronounce as plainly as we do Latin.” Martyr’s presentation in the narrative of Columbus’s second 
voyage, of an eloquent cacique, who lectures the Europeans, in this case Columbus himself, on 
good and evil as well as judgement before God, represents one of the earliest and most significant 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 31 


the event in terms of cultural encounters it expresses a longing or nostalgia for 
something like Peter Martyr’s pre-conquest moment of encounter and exchange, 
before the wars of conquest and before the “invisible bullets” of deadly 
microbiotic exchange began to fly.° 

Thus, Peter Martyr, circa 1492, and Stephen Greenblatt, circa 1992, share 
the problem of rewriting the scene of encounter, which both Martyr and 
Greenblatt revise in such a way as to get around the act of taking possession. 
The desire to write around and beyond the act of taking possession reflects in 
both cases the desire to envision a humane outcome or potential for the meeting 
between different cultural worlds, that is, between self and other. Most striking 
and also significant of a deep kinship between these revisionists is, however, the 
narrative interest they both exhibit for figures of cultural mediation between Old 
World and New, a type which Greenblatt has termed “the go-between.” Already 
in Peter Martyr there emerges a paradigmatic pattern of exchange focused in the 
figure of the woman as go-between. Greenblatt continues this narrative pattern in 
modern terms through his handling of the go-between of the Conquest of 
Mexico: la Malinche. It is no surprise that both the Humanist and the New 
historicist share an interest in figures of cultural mediation, since the literary 
intellectual has always assumed a mediating role between cultures and between 
high and low within a culture. Finally, however, at the end of a chapter dedicated 
to the go-between (which also serves as the conclusion of the book), as if to 
reinforce and reaffirm the humanist origins of his project, Greenblatt turns to 
perhaps the classic authoritative Renaissance Humanist response to the New 
World, that of Montaigne’s “Of Cannibals,” a text from which he derives 
insights which would still apply within the context of contemporary cultural 
encounters. It should be possible then to read the Columbian decades of De orbe 
novo through the filter of Marvelous Possessions and vice versa, on the one 
hand to show how Greenblatt’s New Historicism recapitulates essential features 
of a deeply rooted Humanist paradigm, on the other to highlight neglected yet 
archetypal aspects of Peter Martyr’s New World historiography. 

In fact, after Marvelous Possessions one can no longer read the beginning of 
the De orbe novo without recognizing in it the hand of a self-conscious rewriter 
who is also faced, like Stephen Greenblatt and the makers of the American 
Playhouse “Roanoak,” with the problem of the inaugural scene of taking 
possession as originally scripted by Columbus. For Peter Martyr’s rewriting 
completely suppresses what has since become the totemic icon of columbiana, 


examples of the topos of the eloquent savage (De orbe novo I, 3, 102-04). In the Columbian 
decades of his history, Martyr’s approach to the Indians is often admiring, nearly always 
sympathetic. For a suggestive if somewhat overstated account of Martyr’s impact in the French 
tradition, see Brandon’s New Worlds for Old, especially 19-24. 

9 See Greenblatt’s famous essay “Invisible Bullets: Renaissance Authority and its Subversion,” 
which represents an important precursor of Marvelous Possessions, also for its figuring of New 
World others. For an important critique of that essay see Porter. 


32 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


the inaugural set-piece of Columbus taking possession of the land. This 
suppression is conspicuous, because Peter Martyr began writing his history of 
the discoveries when there was virtually no way to get around the taking 
possession scene, especially after the publication of the “Letter Announcing the 
Discovery.” Moreover, the diario featured the scene prominently and in greater 
detail. And Martyr had certainly access to some version of the diario, because the 
incident which the Humanist selected for his inaugural scene of encounter is first 
recounted there. 

The 1535 translation of the De orbe novo by the Venetian diplomat and poet 
Andrea Navagero illustrates how the suppression of Columbus’s taking 
possession of the new land on the beach already appeared to contemporaries as an 
unwarranted departure from the Columbian model.!° Navagero evidently felt 
called upon to restore the scene and even has Columbus make a speech: 


Il quale, primo, con una bandiera, nella quale era figurato il nostro Signore Jesu 
Christo in croce, saltO in terra, e quella piantd, e poi tutti gli altri smontorono, e 
inginocchiati baciorono la terra tre volte piangendo di allegrezza. 

Dipoi Colombo alzate le mani al Cielo lagrimando disse, “Signor Dio eterno, 
Signore omnipotente tu creasti il cielo e la terra, e il mare con la tua santa parola, sia 
benedetto, e glorificato il nome tuo, sia ringratiata la tua maesta, la quale si é degnata 
per mezzo d’uno umil suo servo, far che ’] suo santo nome sia conosciuto, e divulgato 
in questa altra parte del mondo.” 

(Ramusio, vol V, 30)!! 


Within the sub-genre of taking possession scenes, this one pertains to the 
religious as opposed to the martial-imperial type, which would have been more 
faithful to Columbus’s original rhetoric in the “Letter Announcing the 
Discovery.”!2 In any case, Peter Martyr opted for quite another scene of 


10 Navagero, while Venetian ambassador to Charles V, made one of the two most important early 
translations of Peter Martyr’s history (besides the Libretto de tutta la navigatione de’ re di Spagna, 
Venice, Albertino da Lisona, 1504). After an initial printing in 1535, the translation appeared in 
Ramusio’s encyclopedic Navigazioni e viaggi. On Navagero the Americanist, see most recently, 
Perocco as well as contributions by Mildonian and Parks. 

11 «He was first to leap ashore, holding aloft a flag upon which was represented our lord Jesus 
Christ on the cross and which he planted in the ground and then all the others came ashore and on 
their knees kissed the ground three times, weeping with joy. Then Columbus raised his hands to the 
heavens and weeping said: ‘eternal, omnipotent God, you created the heaven and the earth and the 
sea with your holy word, let your name and your holy word be glorified and your majesty thanked 
which has allowed, by the agency of a humble servant of yours, that your holy name be made 
known and spread to this other part of the world’” (my translation). 

The interchangeability of the various types (religious vs. martial vs. imperial vs. commercial), 
the fluidity with which one tums into the other, is characteristic of the early encounter literature in 
general and appears already in early translations of the Columbus letter. For example, in the 1493 
Italian verse translation by Giuliano Dati, the motivation for the founding of the fortress Navidad is 
given as religious whereas the ones given in the original letter were clearly commercial (Cachey, 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 33 


encounter with which to begin his history. It is remarkable, and a sign of 
deliberate choice, that Martyr selects an incident which occurred nearly two 
months after the first landfall, passing over in the process approximately twenty- 
five incidents of anthropological encounter of one kind or another reported by the 
diario. What motivated Martyr in his “invention” of this particular scene? 


Ibi primum ad terram egressi, homines indigenas viderunt; qui venientem 
inauditam gentem conspicati, facto agmine in condensa nemora omnes, veluti a 
canibus gallicis timidi lepores, sese fugientes recipiunt. Nostri multitudinem 
insecuti, mulierem tantum capiunt; hanc cum ad naves perduxissent, nostris cibis et 
vino bene saturatam, atque ornatam vestibus (nam ea gens omnis utriusque sexus 
nuda penitus vitam ducit, natura contenta) solutam reliquerunt. Quum primum ad suos 
mulier concessit (sciebat enim illa quo fugientes diverterent) ostendessetque mirum 
esse nostrorum ornatum et liberalitatem; omnes ad litora certatim concurrunt, gentem 
esse missam e coelo autumant. Aurum, cuius erat apud illos aliqua copia, ad naves 
natando portant... .” 

(Basel, 1533, 2)!9 


Peter Martyr's first encounter is in fact a composite, that is, a recombination and 
privileging of certain motifs from the narrative of an original Columbian 
archetype, which can be seen to stand behind the diario. Thus Peter Martyr 
postpones by more than two months the initial Euro-American anthropological 
encounter and makes it coincide with the shipwreck and establishment of the first 
colonial settlement at the fort of Navidad on the island of Hispaniola, which 
began on 25 December. By contrast, according to the diario, the capture and 
exchange of the woman occurred on 12 December. Similarly, details of the 
central episode of the capture and release of the woman are themselves 
compressed and recombined into a simplified, elementary narrative structure. 
According to the fuller version in the diario, Columbus sends in another landing 
party, which finds the Indian settlement abandoned and the Indians fled to the 
interior (Dec. 13). An Indian who had been taken earlier finds the villagers and 
convinces them that the newcomers have come from heaven and that they need 
not have any fear. Only later, after welcoming throngs of Indians (more than two 
thousand) have flocked to the shore, does another group arrive “with the husband 
of the woman whom the admiral had treated with honour and sent back, and they 





“The Earliest Literary Response of Renaissance Italy” 30-31). 

In Edens’s vivid Tudor English translation: “Here coming first a land, they saw certain men of 
the Island: who perceiving an unknown nation coming toward them, flocked together and ran all 
into the thick woods, as it had been hares courced with grehounds. Our men pursuing them, took 
onely one woman, whom they brought to the shyppes: where filling her with meat and wine, and 
apparaling her, they let her depart to her company. Shortly after a great multitude of them came 
running to the shore to behold this new nation, whom they thought to have descended from heaven. 
They cast themselves by heaps into the sea, and came swimming to the ships, bringing gold with 
them...” (The Decades of the newe worlde 66). 


34 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


brought her, riding on their shoulders, and they came to give thanks to the 
Christians for the honour which the admiral had shown her and the gifts given to 
her” (The Journal 96). Our intent here is not to establish which of the two 
version is more true, so much as to note their different modes of representation. 
Peter Martyr synthesized the encounter in terms of an elementary syntax of 
exchange: the indigenous woman is dressed, given to eat, and returned; and a 
symbolic resonance accrues to the scene by virtue of its elementary structure. 
There follows the welcoming of the Indians, who rush out bearing gold. 

Peter Martyr’s Spanish language editor and translator Juan Gil has acutely 
identified a probable vein of irony in this first encounter scene of the De orbe 
novo, which portrays the powerful armed Spaniards attempting to capture naked 
and unarmed Indians who nevertheless escape except for a single “pobre mujer 
desvalida” (Cartas de particulares 27). The target of the Italian Martyr’s irony, 
according to Gil, would be those Spaniards who believed that not only Italy but 
the whole world was theirs for the taking. But there may be even more to it, for 
Peter Martyr was as likely interested in the figure of the Amerindian woman, 
who is central to the scene, as in the hapless Spaniards. Indeed, the courtly 
Humanist author may have been stimulated by the archetypal resonance of the 
capture of a woman on a beach. The scene has been in fact archetypal since the 
opening of Herodotus’s history and has been further reinforced through parallels 
in romance traditions.!4 In Herodotus the origin of the quarrel between East and 
West is traced to the abductions of Io, Medea, and Helen, beginning with the 
Phoenician merchants’ kidnapping of Io (“. . . there came down to the beach a 
number of women ... when the Phoenicians, with a general shout rushed upon 
them. The greater part made their escape, but some were seized and carried off. Io 
herself was among the captives”The History 1: 118).!° While in Herodotus the 
kidnapping of a woman stands for a theme as large as the conquest of a 
continent, the story of the woman returned, which Peter Martyr found in 
Columbus, altered that paradigm. That the Spaniards return the woman to her 
people and she serves as an intermediary leading to the establishment of good 
relations between the two groups, in opposition to war, represents a modern 
revision of the classic pattern. From a narratological perspective, the figure of 
the Amerindian woman mediates between the two cultures, and brings about a 
transition from the “flight of the Indians” topos to the “welcoming Indians” 
commonplace.!® 


14 The editor Gil refers to this passage in relation to what he identifies as occasional “Herodotian” 
aspect of Peter Martyr’s historical writing. One should recall the presence of Herodotus during this 
‘cua through the fifteenth-century translations of Lorenzo Valla and Matteo Maria Boiardo. 
For discussion and up-to-date bibliography regarding this crucial opening passage of the 
Histories see Vandiver 114-32. 
© Both topoi are illustrated graphically by two images often reproduced of late on book, exhibition 
and conference materials. For the “flight of the Indians” theme, see the 1493 woodcut from 
Giuliano Dati’s Italian translation of the “Letter Announcing the Discovery” featured on the cover 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 35 


But more importantly, Martyr’s highlighting of the Amerindian woman as 
mediator between the two cultures is consistent with one of the larger narrative 
patterns that characterize his history and can stand as well for a typical narrative 
pattern of New World historiography in general.!’ An ostensibly positive 
featuring of the Amerindian woman as a go-between presents an important type, 
one which can be distinguished from other more typical representations of 
Amerindian womanhood regularly encountered in the literature of discovery and 
exploration including that of Amerindian women as object of European erotic 
desire and victim of rape,!® or alternatively characterized by an insatiable, 
castrating and occasionally even life-threatening sexuality.!° Peter Martyr, 
however, the most “sentimentalist” of sixteenth-century historiographers of 
America, presents a positive view of the Amerindian woman especially in her 
function as a cultural mediator. Not Helen, leading to the fall of Troy, but a 
positive figure of mediation and accommodation. 

A classic example of the Amerindian go-between from Martyr’s history is 
the Taino woman Anacaona, a precursor, if not the first in a long line of native 
American women who have played the role of mediator between the claims of 
competing encountering cultures, a tradition which features most prominently 
Mexico’s La Malinche, Cortés's personal interpreter and go-between, and 
Virginia’s Pocahontas.” The list of such figures is long and a comparative study 
of their different fortunes would be of great interest,”! especially since as a 
cultural type the “daughters of Pocahontas,” as they have been called, are still 
with us, and continue to play a mediating role between hegemonic and subaltern 
cultures, between the margin and the center, between high and low.” But while 
Malinche and Pocahontas have become figures of myth in their own right, 
Anacaona’s history remains only an historical footnote, for hers is the story of 


of a recent National Geographic (170, Nov. 1986) dedicated to the landfall issue. For the 
welcoming Indians motif see Theodor De Bry’s engraving of the Indians greeting Columbus as 
reproduced in Harley’s catalogue for the exhibition “Maps and the Columbian Encounter” (also on 
the cover of a French issue of MLN 97.4, 1982). 

Peter Martyr ennobles and sentimentalizes the female gender in his history in a manner that 
represents perhaps an expression of his courtly humanistic background. For example, among other 
possible illustrations, see the story of the escape of the Amerindian woman captive “named” 
Catherine, whose escape from the Spaniards is compared to that of the heroic Roman Clelia “when 
she liberated the other virgins who had served with her as hostages, swam the Tiber and thus 
escaped from the power of Lars Porsena” (De orbe novo I, 2, 80). 

8 See in particular Michele da Cuneo in Firpo 47-76. 

See Vespucci’s “Mundus novus,” in // mondo nuovo, especially 101. 

For an excellent recent survey and interpretation of the nearly five century old discourse on 
Malinche see now Cypess. Regarding Pocahontas, see the chapter dedicated to her saga by Hulme, 
“John Smith and Pocahontas” in Colonial Encounters 140-73. 

1 Consider for example Lewis’s and Clark’s “guide” Sacagawea, among many other possible 
figures of comparison (Clark). 
22 A recent inquiry into the type as a model at work in the American literary canon is Dearborn’s 
Pocahontas’s Daughters. 


36 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


the death of a people. Nor does she have any second life in any post-conquest 
national foundation myth as do Malinche and Pocahontas, who are still 
occasionally spoken of (and spoken for) within the context of ongoing rewritings 
of encounter and continuing struggles for cultural identity. The European 
encounter with the Taino woman on the other hand (like the earlier one with 
Guanches of the Canary Islands) came to an early end, when the Taino ceased to 
exist. Thus it is perhaps worth pausing to consider Anacaona’s fate as an object 
of European historical representation.?? 

Anthropologists today surmise that Anacaona, the widow of the Maguana 
region’s cacique Caunaboa and the sister of Behecchio, cacique of Xaragua, must 
have been, in matrilinear Taino society, a very powerful figure.”4 Peter Martyr, 
for his part, reports that Anacaona was “a wise woman, of good manners, and 
pleasant in company. . . . she earnestly persuaded her brother . . . to love and 
obey the Christians” (The Decades of the Newe Worlde 85). For Martyr the 
Indians are fully human and their cultural-political organization mirrors to a large 
extent his own courtly political cultural context. Thus he represents Anacaona as 
a powerful noblewoman, who treats with the Europeans on a level of cultural 
parity. The Humanist describes her mediating role in courtly terms, especially in 
his description of perhaps the most important and lavish welcoming receptions 
of the Columbian saga around 1496-97, as retold by both Martyr (De orbe novo 
I, 5) and Las Casas (Historia I, 440-48). That occasion (with Bartholomew 
Columbus assuming the position of Cortés or John Smith) is given courtly 
romance highlights by Navagero in his Italian translation (Bartholomew fires his 
cannon, Anacaona faints), thus becoming a kind of love feast in which Anacaona 
persuades Bartholomew to eat iguana from her hand (a moment of great cultural 
exchange: thereafter the Europeans started liking it). The tragic epilogue to the 
story, however, which Peter Martyr never recounts, is the history of the 
suppression of the last free chiefdom of Hispaniola, which Anacaona inherited at 
the death of her brother Behecchio, approximately six years later, around 1502. 
During a subsequent European social call, Nicolas de Ovando, in a style worthy 
of Machiavelli’s Duke Valentino, put to the torch eighty caciques “lured into the 
caney of the paramount chief of Xaragua and burned alive” (Wilson 134). “To do 
her honor,” as Las Casas remarks bitterly, Ovando had Anacaona hanged 
(Historia Il, 238).” 


23 Anacaona has had some slight echo subsequently by virtue of her original connection to the 
Columbian saga. See for example, the frescoes of Lazzaro Taverone (1627-29) in the Belimbau 
Palace in Genoa, which include a representation of “La regina Anacaona” (reproduced in Nuovo 
mondo: gli italiani, plate #20). 

4 Wilson, Hispaniola 119-34 describes her as “Sister to Behecchio and apparently an equal 
partner in the negotiations with the Adelantado, wife to Caonabo and perhaps his successor as 
cacique of Maguana.. .” (130). On the Taino, see also Rouse. 

“Xaragua was the last of the pre-Hispanic cacicazgos on Hispaniola to be destroyed” (Wilson 
134). 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 37 


Significantly, Peter Martyr’s successor as Spanish imperial historiographer 
of the New World, Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo has nothing to say about 
Anacaona’s earlier mediating role and courtly character, but rather mentions her 
only to say that she was hanged for having fomented a rebellion of the Indians,” 
and later uses her as an exemplar, in a kind of Dantean gallery of Indian lust, as 
comparable to Semiramis.?’ Peter Martyr’s idyllic vision of her mediating role 
quickly runs up against the reality of the suppression of Taino culture in the 
island: Anacaona goes from cultural mediator to being figured as a rebellious 
whore in short order. Indeed the Humanist honeymoon following the discovery 
was of short duration; the ideologues of conquest and colonization come to the 
fore, and subsequent decades of Peter Martyr’s history will already reflect the 
changed climate.”8 

Nevertheless, Peter Martyr’s first encounter scene remains a worthy 
companion piece for the standard scene of the taking possession. Beyond 
reflecting his initially optimistic view of the potential outcome for Euro- 
American encounter, and projecting upon the figure of the Amerindian woman 
some of his longing for that outcome, Martyr isolated the figure of the go- 
between and an archetypal narrative pattern for encounter in history and literature. 
Moreover, Anacaona’s history is perhaps worth recalling here as an illustration 
of the difficult if not untenable situation of the Amerindian go-between. Indeed 
what Stephen Greenblatt writes about Mexico’s Malinche can stand for the status 
of the Amerindian go-between in general: her body is “the site of the strategic 
symbolic oscillation between self and other” and she remains for subsequent 
discourse “a resonant, deeply ambivalent symbol, half-divinity, half-whore, the 
savior and the betrayer” (143). The fact that Anacaona is no longer spoken of, 
and that historically she and her people were victims of an “encounter” which 
was tantamount to genocide, recommends her moreover as a sign for the effective 


26 As Wilson and others have suggested, the rebellion of the natives probably was a spontaneous 
response to Ovando’s suppression of the caciques, which Wilson observes was in effect a Spanish 
subjugation of “a Spanish-Xaraguan alliance of caciques and renegades who, for their mutual 
benefit, had been evading demands from Santo Domingo for food and laborers to work in the 
mines” (133). 

From Ramusio’s edition of the Naturale e Generale Istoria dell’Indie: “. . . ben che si sappia 
come tutta la bruttezza e libidinosa fiamma della lussuria non regn6 negli uomini solamente di 
questa contrada, ma nelle donne anco. Questa donna ebbe qualche conformita con quella 
Semiramis reina degli Assirii . . . e fu molto dissoluta . . .” (512). For a recent reprise of this 
commonplace about Anacaona and the sexuality of the Taino people see Taviani: “The Tainos 
everywhere, on the Bahamas, Cuba, and Hispaniola, had quite free habits. They practiced anal 
intercourse, and the women were promiscuous. The debauchery of Anacaona, Caonabo’s wife, 
after she was widowed, became so wild and unrestrained that she rivaled Semiramis” (171). 

Arico writes: “. . . nel passaggio dalle due prime edizioni a quella definitiva del 1530 il tono di 
sostanziale accettazione dei costumi degli Indiani viene incrinandosi e complicandosi con i temi 
propri della conquista” (30). See for example De orbe novo VII, 4, which includes Tomaso Ortiz’s 
“Enumeration of the reasons why the Indians are unworthy of liberty” 274-78. 


38 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


silence of the Amerindian go-between as she is figured in New World encounter 
narratives. Her silence can stand just as well for the silence of Malinche and 
Pocahontas, who never speak for themselves but are spoken for. In other words, 
Peter Martyr’s Anacaona points to the Amerindian go-between’s deafening 
silence within the narratives of discovery and conquest. As Michel de Certeau 
observed, “the written discourse which cites the speech of the other is not, 
cannot be, the discourse of the other. On the contrary, this discourse, in writing 
the Fable that authorizes it, alters it” (Heterologies 78). But before turning to 
consider Greenblatt’s treatment of Malinche and the go-between, let us first turn 
to the contemporary critic’s rewriting of the scene of encounter. 


* * * 


Unlike Peter Martyr, and in contrast to American Playhouse’s rewriting of 
Roanoak, the contemporary critic cannot get around the scene on the beach “with 
royal standard unfurled.” For Stephen Greenblatt there can be no easy transition, 
as in the swing of a camera, from discovery/conquest to cultural encounter. 
Nearly half of the chapter on Columbus entitled “Marvelous Possessions” (52- 
72) represents a rewriting of Columbus’s “Letter Announcing the Discovery,” 
which takes the form of a strenuous discourse analysis designed to expose the 
logical, linguistic and generally cultural absurdities of the act of taking 
possession performed by Columbus on the beach. The critic, “at his most 
restlessly brilliant” (Nuttal 13) in the pars destruens of this chapter, goes to great 
lengths to reveal the bad faith of Columbus’s “‘and I was not contradicted,” a 
statement which claimed as authorizing witnesses to the ritual act of 
expropriation the very same indians who were being expropriated. The Arawak 
Indians standing there on the beach are clearly not “in the same universe of 
discourse” (59). Thus the cruel absurdity of a proclamation, which only formally 
envisaged the possibility of contradiction, is exposed. 

Nevertheless, that the possibility of contradiction was formally 
contemplated provides the critic momentarily with some meager hope, for the 
taking possession ritual included not only an acknowledgement of the existence 
of the natives but also a recognition of values other than superior force. But the 
literary critic is not about to embark upon a discussion of what has been called 
the “Spanish Struggle for Justice in the Conquest of America”; that is, how 
Western legal and philosophical history evolved in response to the American 
discoveries (another kind of rewriting), as authors like Anthony Pagden and 
Lewis Hanke have done.”? Rather, Greenblatt’s rewriting turns its focus upon 
Columbus’s rhetoric of the marvelous in the pars construens of his chapter. 
Stated simply, Greenblatt argues persuasively that the rhetoric of the marvelous 


29 Hanke perhaps goes so far as to create what Keen has called “the white legend” in ironic 
allusion to the “black legend” it would displace. 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 39 


functions in Columbus’s writings as a cover for the bad faith and the absurdity 
of the act of taking possession. The “radical formalism” of the legal declaration 
left in its wake an emotional and intellectual hole, which threatened “to draw the 
reader of Columbus’s discourse toward laughter or tears and toward a questioning 
of the legitimacy of the Spanish claim. Columbus tries to draw the reader toward 
wonder, a sense of the marvelous that in effect fills up the emptiness at the 
center of the maimed rite of possession” (80). 

Wonder then represents for Columbus a way out as a rhetorical strategy to 
mask the force and violence of the act of taking possession. But one cannot help 
noting how wonder also constitutes for the contemporary critic a way out from 
the unacceptable conclusion that there remains nothing but force and violence. 
For wonder, a topic more congenial to the literary critic than legal history, 
appears to offer the possibility of a more positive outcome within the context of 
contemporary cultural encounter. In fact, within the larger context of 
Greenblatt’s study, wonder works two ways as a response to the encounter with 
the other, thus leading to one of two opposing discursive strategies. Following 
the path exemplified by Columbus and Bernal Diaz, wonder leads to articulations 
of the radical differences that make renaming, transformation and appropriation 
possible, while, in the case of Mandeville or Herodotus (and finally, as we shall 
see, in Montaigne) “wonder leads to articulations of the hidden links between the 
radically opposed ways of being and hence to some form of acceptance of the 
other in the self and the self in the other” (135). Greenblatt’s rewriting of the 
category of the marvelous offers a way around the act of possession, the legacy 
of conquest. For wonder of the right kind can open the way, within a 
contemporary multicultural context, to a positive mediation between self and 
other. 

But the authorities for this positive “dispossessive” wonder leading to 
recognition and acceptance of “the other in the self and the self in other” are all 
authors whose approach to cultural alterity was rarely if at all pressured by any 
first hand contact or conflict with the others described in their works. As one 
reviewer observed in response to Greenblatt’s admiring discussion of Mandeville, 
“It is easy to be tolerant toward characters of one’s own invention” (Wills 18). 
More importantly, the openness these authors display towards cultural difference 
does not necessarily entail the suspension of cultural judgements or for that 
matter the sense of one’s own cultural superiority. As Greenblatt observes: 
“Herodotus is not committed to relativism” (123). And scholars of Mandeville 
have shown how the “Mandeville-author”’s tolerance toward the other did not 
entail giving up a fundamental sense of the ultimate superiority of his own 
community.*° Thus this tradition of a rhetorically tolerant, if not idealizing 


30 Higgins comments: “the Mandeville-author has fashioned from his imagined encounter with the 
world beyond Christendom a sometimes fantastic mirror of his own world, and a mirror which he 
uses not only to point up the numerous practical failings within Latin Christendom itself, but also, if 


40 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


stance, vis-a-vis the other is no doubt ethically superior and preferable to the one 
of intolerance characteristic of cruder varieties of European colonialism. Yet this 
alternative of a highly rhetorical and theoretical attitude of cultural openness and 
tolerance still has the capacity, as it always and already did in its classic 
Renaissance Humanist forms,?! of serving as an ideological cover for more 
insidious expropriations and conquests, even in a “post-colonial” and “post- 
modern” age like our own. 

Indeed, if it is true, as has been remarked, that one of the New Historicism’s 
fundamental tenets is that “every act of unmasking critique and opposition uses 
the tools it condemns and risks falling prey to the practice it exposes” (Veeser 
xi), then perhaps nowhere does Stephen Greenblatt risk more than in his 
treatment of wonder. For there inevitably emerges the larger question of the 
extent to which the critic’s cultural poetics of wonder might be seen, within the 
context of contemporary “encounter,” to continue to “fill up the emptiness at the 
center of the maimed rite of possession.” Does not the “utopian reverie” evoked 
by the traveller Stephen Greenblatt potentially serve as a cover and a means to 
write around no less momentous rites of possession taking place in our own 
technological age within the fields of global politics and economics?22 These 
rites of possession are less easily deconstructed than those of 1492, which can 
only seem in retrospect, from a contemporary perspective, nearly parodistic. It is 
perhaps for this reason that Greenblatt’s strenuous deconstruction of the rites 
performed by Columbus on the shore of a still unidentifiable islet among the 
thousands scattered across the Caribbean might strike some readers as 
overwrought. 

Beyond rewriting a new kind of wonder into the scene of encounter, 
Greenblatt, just as Peter Martyr, displays a particular interest in figures of 
cultural mediation as they appear in the history of the New World encounter and 
conquest. The most important of these figures is, of course, Cortés’s interpreter 
and mistress Malinche, whom the critic describes as “the principal agent of the 
circulation of cultural representations elsewhere blocked in the Spanish 
perception of their experience” (142). But although Malinche is taken as an 
“agent of circulation,” the history of the go-between herself, what Malinche 


paradoxically, to affirm the ultimate superiority of that community by imagining it as somehow 
capable of containing all others — indeed, entitled to do this whatever the practical impossibility of 
such an undertaking” (104). 

See for example Gliozzi: “Parallelamente al sorgere di un diritto internazionale laico, che 
contestava all’impero ispano-portoghese ogni pretesa di fondazione giuridico-teologica, la 
rivendicazione della liberta dell’indigeno americano diveniva il correlato dell’affermazione della 
liberta di commercio da parte delle potenze mercantili europee” (8). 

For a critique of New Historicist “rewritings of encounter” in Bali, in particular those of 
Clifford Geertz’s “local knowledge” in whose footsteps Greenblatt follows according to his 
Balinese anecdote (“. . . I knew — from having read Clifford Geertz and Miguel Covarrubias and 
Gregory Bateson and Margaret Mead . . .” 3), see Pecora. 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 41 


herself might have to say, is paradoxically elided in the critic’s discussion. 
Greenblatt’s treatment has little to say about Malinche’s own bio-political- 
cultural perspective, imagined or real, as it has been extensively rewritten and 
imagined by many historians, novelists and playwrights relegated by the critic to 
a note (191n30).33 Whether or not Malinche was a “‘savior” or a “‘betrayer” is a 
secondary issue here. The critic’s focus is rather upon her syntactic, grammatical 
role, her position of “betweenness,” which is celebrated in opposition to any 
particular content. Greenblatt celebrates Malinche, both the heroine and betrayer 
potentially. For the American critic, the most important thing about Malinche is 
her role as cultural mediator, as a conduit (not so much in her subjective aspect 
as agent) for the circulation of representations. Thus the chapter on the go- 
between culminates with Malinche as a sign “for the place of language at the 
center of the technology with which Europeans in the late fifteenth and sixteenth 
centuries responded to the discoveries of new lands. In her enigmatic power, she 
serves not only as the supreme instance of the go-between in the New World but 
as an emblem of the vast process of cultural translation that the discovery 
initiated” (145). It is indeed paradoxical that the betweenness of Malinche should 
be taken as a cultural ideal of freedom of movement and circulation. For in fact 
she was a slave exchanged many times both in history and in subsequent 
historiographical discourse. In Greenblatt’s allegorization of her role as a cultural 
go-between, Malinche is really little more than Peter Martyr’s “pobre mujer,” 
the Taino captive seized on the beach and the woman exchanged.** And 
Greenblatt’s silence on the Amerindian go-between can stand for the silence on 
the Amerindian in general within the context of his recapitulation of a European 
Humanistic rewriting of the encounter. 

The practical if paradoxical result of this idealization of a “voiceless” go- 
between for the critic-rewriter, who has yet to conclude both chapter and book, is 
obvious: if Malinche has nothing herself to say about the processes of cultural 
encounters for which she serves as medium, then she cannot provide any 
particular content or insight. For this purpose, evidently, another more 
authoritative figure for the go-between is required. Thus, in light of the 


33 Nuttal found Greenblatt’s discussion of Dona Marina “masterly” but was frustrated by the 
critic’s “persistent refusal to address the importantly relevant literary materials” (13). 

4 In this reading of Malinche, Greenblatt follows Todorov in his treatment of Malinche in his 
Conquest of America and is thus open to the same critique. Adomo thus comments: “it is the moral 
self-absorption of the subject in power that reigns in Todorov’s book. It is an ethical discussion of 
conduct of the self vis-a-vis the other in which, in the sixteenth century case study, the other as 
subject is absent . . .” (204). See also Johnson for a discussion and bibliography on this point: 
Todorov’s “recuperative effort, however, replicates the traditional historiographical paradigm: 
Todorov speaks in the name of and for one who cannot speak for herself in order to articulate a 
history that could only be his own” (97); “That historiographers and mythographers (such as Paz 
and Todorov) use [Malinche] to make historical claims should come as no surprise; it represents 
only another instance of men speaking for themselves through la Malinche . . .” (99). 


42 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


Humanist precedents for many of the critic’s basic moves, including that of 
emptying out the contents of the go-between at the same time that she is given 
prominence, when finally the time comes for the critic himself to assume the 
role of Humanist go-between, not surprisingly, he returns to the high literary 
tradition and the authority of Montaigne’s “Of Cannibals.” 

And yet, while the critic tantalizes the reader with a suggestive hypothesis 
about how class structure works in the essay, he forgoes a full-blown reading of 
the text. Montaigne’s “Of Cannibals” serves the critic primarily as an authority 
or vehicle for a New Historicist approach to rewriting the encounter. Simply 
stated, Greenblatt reads “Of Cannibals” as yet another classic expression of 
Greenblattian wonder leading to dispossession and taking Montaigne (“one who 
has abjured the desire to possess the souls of others, and for that matter, to 
possess himself .. .” 150) as presenting a model for the role of the intellectual 
“‘g0-between.” For Montaigne’s wonder at the New World does not lead to 
dreams of possession but rather to a “marvelous dispossession.” “Of Cannibals” 
shows how the Humanist “go-between” can serve as the agent for a marvelous 
dispossession, a loss of the fiercely intolerant certainty that licensed unbearable 
cruelty.” For Greenblatt, Montaigne’s essay serves, finally, to remind us that 
“we are complete and unsteady, we are go-betweens, we do not know whom God 
loves and whom he hates” (150).?° 

But while one might gladly endorse Greenblatt’s approval of Montaigne’s 
rejection of that “certainty that licensed unbearable cruelty,” one can still be 
concemed about being left in the state of radical undecidability and uncertainty, a 
condition where the critic would have Montaigne leave us. Here the critic appears 
to go beyond Montaigne’s position in order to extrapolate his own position of 
New Historicist radical ambivalence and ambiguity. Unlike the case of 
Herodotus, Greenblatt attributes to Montaigne a relativist stance, to which the 
contemporary critic appears to subscribe. But as Tzvetan Todorov warned in a 
recent discussion of Montaigne’s essay, it is precisely the unconscious 
ethnocentrism lurking beneath the ideological banner of relativism which 
represents an insidious trap and potentially an effective ideological cover for an 
essentially “colonial” attitude vis-a-vis one’s cultural other. Indeed, having no 
idea of whom God loves and whom he hates would seem to offer little or no 
protection at all against the licensing of unbearable cruelties (Todorov, Nous et 
les autres 51-79). Moreover, the New Historicist’s desire to inspire a dream of 
dispossession as an antidote to dreams of possession inevitably involves 


35 Greenblatt’s reading of Montaigne presumably does not derive from a naive subscription to the 
commonplace critical reception which congratulates Montaigne for his freedom from ethnocentric 
prejudice. It appears perhaps to represent an attempt to rehabilitate Montaigne’s position against 
the recent critique of Montaigne as an unconscious ethnocentric (Defaux; Todorov, Nous et les 
autres). For a more thoroughgoing reading in response to this kind of critique of Montaigne see 


Quint. 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 43 


forgetting about or suppressing one’s awareness of one’s own inevitable 
embeddedness in historical contingency and consequent capacity/necessity to 
possess and be possessed. While history presents an ambiguous record 
characterized by revisions and transformations, by boundaries established, blurred 
and abandoned, one questions whether this knowledge can be translated into a 
methodological program for dealing with cultural encounters in a “wondering” 
“‘dispossessive” mode and whether, in other words, it is possible to choose not to 
possess oneself?3° Perhaps the fate of the Amerindian go-between, who is 
continually spoken for and exchanged, is a more telling example of the realities 
of the position of the go-between than that of the authoritative Humanist 
Montaigne in this context. While Greenblatt idealizes the position of the go- 
between, the difficulties of occupying such a position emerge most clearly from 
the consideration of the historical fate of Amerindian go-betweens like Malinche 
in the history of Euro-American “encounters.” For even if we are incomplete and 
unsteady and although we may be go-betweens who do not know whom God 
loves and whom He hates, we nevertheless are called upon inevitably and 
continually to choose and be chosen, to exclude and be excluded, to possess and 
be possessed. 

This invocation of the authority of a New Historicist Montaigne represents 
the argumentative endpoint of Marvelous Possessions; in his typical style, 
however, Greenblatt closes with a revealing anecdote, “a final image,” as he 
says, “in which I must act as the go-between” (150). As in the introduction’s 
Balinese anecdote, the critic assumes again the role of tourist, this time 
wandering in the valley of Oaxaca, where in the village church he points to one 
of the niches. There, hovering above a figure of the dead Christ, a stone carving 
of the Mixtec god of death fixed in the plaster of the ceiling looks down directly 
into the face of the crucified God. The go-between informs us “marveling” in the 
book’s final sentence that “The divinities have exchanged this sightless gaze, 
this perpetual circulation, for more than four hundred years” (151). The go- 
between in this concluding rewrite of the scene of encounter does not place 
himself between the two encountering cultures but between us and the image of 
the two gods sightlessly staring at each other, and we are invited to wonder at 
their exchange of the sightless gaze for more than four hundred years. 

But while the go-between speaks of circulation, the image itself remains 
nevertheless one of stasis and incommunicability. Greenblatt proposes finally an 
icon of his dream of dispossession which is tantamount to a dream of stasis or 
standstill — as if to freeze-frame the encountering gaze of wonder first exchanged 
on the beach. This final rewriting of the scene of encounter stands for the 
contemporary critic’s invitation to utopian reveries. Yet in spite of itself, the 
eerie tranquility of this final scene of encounter between sightless gazes suggests 


36 For the impossibility of putting into methodological practice what has been termed the New 


Historicism’s “indeterminate negativity” and its “opposition as a principle” see Fish 310-11. 


44 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


at the same time how contemporary rewritings of “encounter” in the late 
twentieth century can still represent the attempt to write around and evade 
another more violent history in the making, and one no less blind than that of 
1492. 


The University of Notre Dame 


Works cited 


Adorno, Rolena. “Arms, Letters and the Native Historian in Early Colonial Mexico.” 
R. Jara and N. Spadaccini 201-23. 

Aricd, A. Caracciolo, ed. L’impatto della scoperta dell'America nella cultura 
veneziana. Roma: Bulzoni, 1990. 

. “Tl nuovo mondo e l’umanesimo: immagini e miti dell’editoria veneziana.” 

Arico, ed. 25-44. 

Brandon, William. New Worlds for Old: Reports from the New World and their Effect 
on the Development of Social Thought in Europe 1500-1800. Athens, OH: Ohio 
UP, 1986. 

Cachey, Theodore J. Jr. “The Earliest Literary Response of Renaissance Italy to the 
New World Encounter.” Paolucci 24-35. 

Cartas de particulares a Colén y Relaciones coetdneas. Ed. J. Gil and C. Varela. 
Madrid: Alianza, 1984. 17-124. 

Certeau, Michel de. Heterologies: Discourse on the Other. Trans. B. Massumi. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1986. 

Clark, Ella E. Sacagawea of the Lewis and Clark Expedition. Berkeley: U of California 
P,. 1979. 

Col6n, Cristébal. Textos y documentos completos, Relaciones de viajes, cartas y 
memoriales. Ed. Consuclo Varela. Madrid: Alianza, 1984. 

Columbus, Christopher. The Journal of Christopher Columbus. Trans. Cecil Jane. 
New York: Bramhall House, 1960. 

Cuneo, Michele da. “A Gerolamo Annari.” Firpo 47-76. 

Cypess, Sandra Messinger. La Malinche in Mexican Literature: From History to 
Myth. Austin: U of Texas P, 1991. 

Dearborn, Mary V. Pocahontas’s Daughters: Gender and Ethnicity in American 
Culture. New York: Oxford UP, 1986. 

Defaux, Gerard. “Un cannibale en haut de chausses: Montaigne, la différence et la 
logique de l’identité.” MLN 97 (1982): 919-57. 

Discovering New Worlds: Essays on Medieval Exploration and Imagination. Ed. S. 
Westrem. New York: Garland, 1991. 

Firpo, Luigi. Prime relazioni di navigatori italiani sulla scoperta dell’ America. 
Colombo, Vespucci, Verrazzano. Torino: UTET, 1966. 

First Images of America: The Impact of the New World on the Old. Ed. F. Chiappeili, 
M. J. B. Allen and R. L. Benson. 2 vols. Berkeley: U of California P, 1976. 

Fish, Stanley. “Commentary: ‘The Young and the Restless.’” The New Historicism 


Rewriting the New World Encounter 45 


303-16. 

Forma e parola: studi in memoria di Fredi Chiappelli. Ed. D. Dutschke, P. M. Forni, F. 
Grazzini, B. Lawton, L. Sanguinetti White. Roma: Bulzoni (forthcoming). 

Gliozzi, Giuliano. La scoperta dei selvaggi: antropologia e colonialismo da Colombo 
a Diderot. Milano: Principato, 1971. 

Gonzalez-Echevarria, Roberto. “Europeans in Wonderland.” New York Times Book 
Review 97 (Feb. 16, 1992): 22. 

Greenblatt, Stephen. “Invisible Bullets: Renaissance Authority and Its Subversion, 
Henry IV and Henry V.” Political Shakespeare: New Essays in Cultural 
Materialism 18-47. 

. Marvelous Possessions: The Wonder of the New World. Chicago: U of 
Chicago P, 1991. 

Hanke, Lewis. The Spanish Struggle for Justice in the Conquest of America. Boston: 
Little Brown, 1965. 

Harley, J. B. Maps and the Columbian Encounter: An Interpretive Guide to the 
Travelling Exhibition. Milwaukee: The Golda Meier Library, 1990. 

Henige, David. In Search of Columbus: The Sources for the First Voyage. Tucson: The 
U of Arizona P, 1991. 

Herodotus. The History of Herodotus. Ed. G. Rawlinson. 4 vols. New York: Appleton, 
1983. 

Higgins, lain. “Imagining Christendom: Asia in Mandeville’s Travels.” Discovering 
New Worlds 91-105. 

Hirsch, Rudolf. “Printed Reports on the Early Discoveries and Their Reception.” First 
Images of America 537-60. 

Hulme, Peter. Colonial Encounters: Europe and the Native Caribbean 1492-1797. 
London: Methuen, 1986. 

_____. -“Subversive Archipelagos: Colonial Discourse and the Break-up of 
Continental Theory.” Dispositio. Ed. R. Adorno and W. Mignolo. 14.36-38 
(1989): 1-23. 

Jara, R. and N. Spadaccini, eds. 1492-1992: Re/Discovering Colonial Writing. 
Minneapolis: The Prisma Institute, 1989. 

Johnson, David E. “Woman, Translation, Nationalism: La Malinche and the Example 
of Juan Garcia Ponce.” Arizona Quarterly 47.3 (1991): 93-116. 

Keen, Benjamin. “The White Legend Revisited.” Hispanic American Historical 
Review 51 (1971): 336-55. 

Las Casas, Fray Bartolomé de. Historia de las Indias. 3 vols. Mexico City: Fondo de 
Cultura Econémica, 1951. 

Martyr, Peter. The Decades of the Newe Worlde or West India. Trans. R. Eden. The 
First Three English Books on America. Ed. E. Arber. Westminster: A. Constable 
and Co., 1895. 66-200. 

. De orbe novo decades tres. Basel: Bebelius, 1533. 
. De orbe novo: The Eight Decades of Peter Martyr D'Anghera. Trans. F. A. 
MacNutt. 2 vols. New York: Putnam, 1912. 

Mignolo, Walter D. “Colonial Situations, Geographical Discourses and Territorial 
Representations: Toward a Diatopical Understanding of Colonial Semiosis.” 
Dispositio. Ed. R. Adorno and W. Mignolo. 14.36-38 (1989): 93-140. 

Mildonian, Paola. “La conquista dello spazio americano nelle prime raccolte venete.” 


46 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


Arico, ed. 115-33. 

The New Historicism. Ed. H. Aram Veeser. New York: Routledge, 1989. 

Nuovo mondo: gli italiani. Ed. P. Collo and P. L. Crovetto. Torino: Einaudi, 1991. 

Nuttal, A. D. “Point of Wonder.” London Review of Books 13 (Dec. 5, 1991): 12. 

O’Gorman, Edmundo. The Invention of America. An Inquiry into the Historical Nature 
of the New World and the Meaning of its History. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 
1961. 

Pagden, Anthony. The all of Natural Man: The American Indian and the Origins of 
Comparative Ethnology. New York: Cambridge UP, 1982. 

Paolucci, A., ed. Columbus. New York: Council on National Literatures, 1989. 

Parks, George B. “Columbus and Balboa in the Italian Revision of Peter Martyr.” 
Huntington Library Quarterly 18.3 (1955): 209-25. 

Pecora, Vincent P. “The Limits of Local Knowledge.” The New Historicism 243-76. 

Perocco, Daria. “Uno storico mancato, un viaggiatore involontario.” Forma e parola 
(forthcoming). 

Pietro Martire d'Anghiera nella storia e nella cultura. Secondo Convegno 
Internazionale di Studi Americanistici (Genova-Arona 16-19 Ottobre 1978). 
Genova: Associazione italiana studi americanistici, 1980. 

Political Shakespeare: New Essays in Cultural Materialism. Ed. Jonathan Dollimore 
and Alan Sinfield. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1985. 

Porter, Carolyn. “Are We Being Historical Yet?” South Atlantic Quarterly 87:4 
(1988): 743-86. 

Quint, David. “A Reconsideration of Montaigne’s Des Cannibales.’ Modern 
Language Quarterly 51.4 (1990): 459-89. 

Ramusio, Giovanni Battista. Navigazioni e viaggi. 6 vols. Ed. M. Milanesi. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1985. 

Rouse, Irving. The Tainos: Rise and Decline of the People Who Greeted Columbus. 
New Haven: Yale UP, 1992. 

Schama, Simon. “Circus 1492.” The New Republic 205 (January 6, 1992): 30. 

Taviani, Paolo Emilio. Columbus: The Great Adventure, His Life, His Times, His 
Voyages. Trans. L. F. Farina and M. A. Beckwith. New York: Orion, 1991. 

Todorov, Tzvetan. The Conquest of America: The Question of the Other. Trans. R. 
Howard. New York: Harper and Row, 1984. 

. Nous et les autres: la réflexion francaise sur la diversité humaine. Paris: 
Seuil, 1989. 

Vandiver, Elizabeth. Heroes in Herodotus: The Interaction of Myth and History. 
Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang, 1991. 

Veeser, H. Aram. “Introduction.” The New Historicism ix-xvi. 

Vespucci, Amerigo. Jl mondo nuovo di Amerigo Vespucci. Ed. Mario Pozzi. Milano: 
Serra e Riva, 1984. 

Wills, Garry. “Man of the Year.” New York Review of Books 38.21 (1991): 12. 

Wilson, Samuel M. Hispaniola: Caribbean Chiefdoms in the Age of Columbus. 
Tuscaloosa: U of Alabama P, 1990. 


AN INVITATION TO SUBSCRIBE 


Annali d’Italianistica 


VOLUMES SOLD OUT: 


volume 1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo (unbound photocopy available) 
volume 2 (1984), Guicciardini (unbound photocopy available) 


VOLUMES AVAILABLE: 
volume 3 (1985), Manzoni 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’ Annunzio 
volume 6 (1988), Film and Literature 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
volume 9 (1991), Italy 1991: the Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of Columbus and the New World 

in Italian Literature 


VOLUMES IN PREPARATION: 
volume 11 (1993), Goldoni and 18th-Century Theater 
volume 12 (1994), The Italian Epic & Its European Context 


Subscriptions: Domestic: Regular $12; Institutions $19; back 
issues: add $3 for postage. Foreign subscribers (Canada 
excluded): $21. Checks in U. S. currency should be made 

payable to Annali d’Italianistica, CB # 3170, 141 Dey Hall, The 

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 

27599-3170. 


Subscriber: 
Name 

Address 

Check enclosed 


ISSN 0741-7527 


Stelio Cro 


Italian Humanism 
and the Myth of the Noble Savage 


The concepts of a new man and a new state are essential for the understanding of 
the Italian Renaissance utopia. They are interrelated, since the new state is 
designed as the dwelling place of the new man and it is the new man who will 
undertake the building of a new earthly state, the wordly counterpart of the 
heavenly city of the Middle Ages. The search for the new man gave rise to a new 
conscience and to an irreconcilable division between the loyalty to the Church 
versus the loyalty to the State, a conflict which Dante had accepted as inherent to 
justice, but which Machiavelli resolved in favor of the State. It is this division 
which the myth of the noble savage seeks to redress, albeit unconsciously. With 
Rousseau, the noble savage will become the new republican citizen of the 
modern state, the man who has found the noble savage within itself and has 
abandoned the old medieval loyalties to Church and Monarchy. But, before this 
solution, the myth of the noble savage and that of the ideal state came together 
in Campanella’s vision of a new unified world under a Catholic Pope, as we will 
see later on in this study. 

Italian Humanism established the referential parameters of the myth from its 
classical sources to the chronicles of the discovery and conquest of America. It 
would be left to later northern European Humanists, scientists and philosophers 
in the course of the following centuries to shape and redefine the ideas set forth 
by the early Renaissance Humanists. 

According to Garin, the Renaissance is not the reflection of an ideal plan for 
the renewal of society in all of its aspects. On the contrary, he insists that it is a 
very important cultural phenomenon which only in time will make its effects 
felt in a progressive way. Thus the ideas which the Italian Humanists of the 
fifteenth century proclaimed so enthusiastically to a world which either ignored 
or opposed those ideas, will produce concrete results only after a long period of 
struggle. Therefore it is Garin’s contention that the Renaissance is primarily a 
cultural phenomenon, “a conception of life and of reality which impregnates the 
arts, letters, sciences, and the habits.”! Carrying this idea a little further, one 
might say that Renaissance culture implied a utopian way of thinking, in that it 
idealized everyday reality by projecting it against a golden future.” But whereas 


1 La Rénaissance 10 (my translation from the French). 
2 Renaissance man believed that it was possible to design and establish the perfect state on earth. 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 49 


Garin believes that the events which took place in the early Renaissance had 
little actual influence on the society of the times, I believe that one event at 
least, itself a direct result of the Renaissance revolution, was destined to make its 
influence felt immediately and in a truly lasting way. I refer to the discovery of 
the New World.? 

The modern utopia, exemplified by More’s Utopia, is the creation of the 
early Renaissance, born out of the same creative environment which produced the 
geographic discoveries and conceived the new scientific and pedagogic methods. 
The voyages of Columbus and Vespucci were the turning point of the new 
genre. As Myron P. Gilmore has observed: “The success of the great voyages of 
the fifteenth century is the more startling as it seemed suddenly to reverse the 
previous shrinkage of the area of Latin Christian civilization” (Gilmore 22). 

The object of my study is to show how the discovery of America was the 
result of the environment created by Italian Humanism and the early Renaissance 
and how in turn this discovery and conquest would modify, not only the utopian 
thought of the Italian Renaissance, but its perception of a new man. At the same 
time, paradoxically, the political and economic consequences of the discovery 
would ultimately seal the fate of Italian Humanism. This study can be best 
achieved if focussed on one of the many myths Italian Humanism inherited from 
classical antiquity. Like many other myths of this period, that of the noble 
savage has classical roots. However, with the discovery of America, it acquired a 
new meaning. Although its allegory of a man in a natural state living in a 
golden age is already present in classical authors, it was left to Italian Humanists 
such as Poggio Bracciolini, Peter Martyr, Pietro Bembo and Tommaso 
Campanella (who shares with Montaigne the final elaboration of the Renaissance 
myth) to give the myth its modern allegorical connotations. The first stage, 
represented by Poggio Bracciolini, embodies the early adaptation of a classical 


As Garin points out, the Renaissance often conceived the ideal man and his perfect earthly home 
out of a vision which went beyond the harsh reality: “Le régne de Satume, |’age d’or occupent les 
esprits avec d’autant plus de force qu’ils semblent plus éloignés de la terre. Le chancelier de la 
République florentine, Leonardo Bruni, mort en 1444, nous raconte lui-méme qu’il recherchait les 
textes de Platon alors que le choc des luttes civiles sécouait les murs des palais solennels” (Garin, 
La Rénaissance 9). 

3 Tam perfectly aware of the fundamental contribution Gerbi has made to the knowledge of the 
presence of America in the European consciousness. However, both of Gerbi’s seminal works — 
La natura delle Indie Nuove and La disputa del Nuovo Mondo — are thematically and 
chronologically outside my research. The first book, La natura, studies the impact of the news from 
America on European consciousness and only deals with Italian humanism insofar as it represents, 
convincingly, an important element in Gonzalo Femandez de Oviedo’s formative years. It deals, 
however, neither with the myth of the noble savage, nor with its relationship with the utopian 
genre, nor with the relationship between the American chronicles and the utopian genre, a subject 
which has occupied me for many years and on which I have published books and articles for 
almost twenty years. Gerbi’s second book, La disputa, studies the period from 1750 to 1900, which 
is completely outside my present study. 


50 Stelio Cro 


tradition, which carries a pedagogical message: the vices of civilized people 
versus the pristine virtues of primitive populations; the second stage, that of 
Peter Martyr and Bembo, seeks to establish with it the actual geographic 
contours of the golden age within the regions discovered by Columbus. The third 
and final stage, that of Montaigne and Campanella, already utilizes the myth in 
order to articulate a revisionist view of western thought and history, after it 
began to assimilate the impact of the geographic discoveries, the Reformation, 
and the new science of Galileo, all aided by the recent discovery of the printing 
press. The Counter Reformation allowed the survival of a Catholic version of 
the myth of the ideal city, which was fulfilled by the artistic renewal the Roman 
Popes undertook in the city of Rome, but it curtailed the political and 
philosophical development of the myth of the noble savage in Catholic Italy and 
Spain; in fact the myth of the noble savage left Mediterranean Europe and 
migrated to France and Northern Europe where it became interwoven with the 
Black Legend, one of the most influential and lasting topos which is still alive 
today. 

One of the key documents for the origin of the myth of the Noble Savage in 
modern times is a letter written by Poggio Bracciolini from Baden, Germany in 
1416 to his friend Niccolo Niccoli, in which Bracciolini described the Germans 
as men and women who lived happily in a state of nature unlike the Italians, 
whose greed, suspiciousness, envy, and jealousies made them far inferior to the 
simpler, good-natured Germans. His admiration for the natural wisdom of the 
Germans was so great that he thought they would be the perfect citizens for 
Plato’s Republic: “Nothing is so difficult in their habits that will not become 
easy. Surely they could have lived in Plato’s Republic since they possess all 
things in common and even if they do not know his doctrines, they are ready for 
his teachings.”* This text, inspired by Tacitus’ Germania, is reminiscent of a 
common Renaissance motif, that of the Golden Age, and is the model for such 
widely diversified authors as Columbus, Peter Martyr, Bembo, Las Casas, 
Quiroga, Benzoni and Montaigne, among others. 

The earliest descriptions of the initial encounter between the Europeans and 
the native inhabitants of the New World gave rise to an utopian interpretation 
praising the innocence and virtue of the Indians and contrasting them favorably 
with the corrupt and decadent Europeans. This interpretation was first put forth 
in the Diary of Christopher Columbus and the writings of Peter Martyr, the first 
official chronicler of the discovery. In these texts, for the first time, two secular 
myths of classical origin came together as a consequence of the experience that 
the Renaissance culture had in the New World. 

It is helpful to understand how these two classical myths acquired 


4 «Nihil est tam difficile quin eorum moribus facile fiat. Plane in Politam Platonis convenissent, ut 
omnia essent communia, cum etiam absque eius doctrina tam prompti in ipsius sectam reperiantur” 
(Prosatori latini del Quattrocento, ed. Garin, 222-24). 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 51 


significance in the modern age. First of all these two myths, better than other 
less clear-cut occurrences of cultural assimilation, or acculturation, show how 
the Humanists adapted classical ideals to their immediate needs in order to find a 
rational and traditional explanation for the new scientific discoveries. In second 
place, and unlike other classical myths also adapted by the Humanists to the new 
culture of the times, these two myths enjoyed a special circumstance: that for 
over two centuries humankind tried unsuccessfully to find the confirmation of 
their intuitions and, usually, they sought their proof in connection with the 
Americas. Finally, it does not seem to matter whether the sources are Spanish, 
Italian, French or English, because, save for chronological differences, they all 
share in the elaboration of these two myths.> 

The Italian Humanists of the Quattrocento had come to believe that their 
civilization was corrupt and decadent and that only a renewal — a renovatio — 
could save it. This concept can be found in the works of Leonardo Bruni, Poggio 
Bracciolini, Pico della Mirandola, Marsilio Ficino, Leon Battista Alberti, 
Girolamo Savonarola and Bembo, in the decades prior and immediately after the 
discovery of the New World. During the Quattrocento, in contrast to the corrupt 
and decadent civilized man, the Humanists speak of man in the natural state. 

The discovery of the New World seemed to confirm that the time was ripe 
for a renovatio. The chronicles of the discovery offer a point of reference and, in 
a certain sense, a confirmation of the validity of this potentially apocalyptic 
interpretation of the renovatio. This renewal was possible only if a new man, 
untouched by European corruption, could be found. This man appeared with the 
discovery of the New World. Among the Humanists that theorized most 
convincingly on this theme, Montaigne and Campanella best understood the 
discovery in this sense, with the emphasis on the moral aspect in Montaigne and 
the scientific-religious aspect in Campanella. 

The classical myth is presented as an allegory of the decadence and 
corruption of the customs and virtues of man. This motif is related in the 
classical texts to that of the golden age, conceived as that happy state of moral 
virtue and physical well-being. The golden age is the plenitudo temporum, 
presaged by the Humanists, when virtue, science, and the wisdom of Christian 
truth will triumph, while corruption was identified as the age of iron, when vice 
and violence, greed and corruption, in short, all the worst characteristics of a 


5 One can consult general works on these myths, such as Levin’s comprehensive study on The 
Myth of the Golden Age in the Renaissance, or Gonnard’s La légende du bon sauvage. Contribution 
Gl’ étude des origines du socialisme, or Lévi-Strauss, La pensée sauvage, or Landucci’s J filosofi et 
selvaggi. 1580-1700. These studies have focussed on the European Renaissance and 
Enlightenment without taking into account the contribution of the Spanish American chronicles to 
the modern formulation of these two myths. I have attempted to redress this issue in several studies: 
{Las fuentes clasicas de la utopia moderna: el buen salvaje y las islas felices en la historiografia 
indiana,” and “La utopia cristiano-social en el Nuevo Mundo,” and my last book on the subject, 
The Noble Savage: Allegory of Freedom. 


52 Stelio Cro 


civilization in decadence, would reign supreme. 

In the Odyssey, Homer had evoked the legendary Libya “where the ewes 
bring forth their lambs with horns on and bear them three several times in the 
cycle of each year. No Libyan, be he king or shepherd, goes short of cheese or 
mutton or sweet ewe-milk, for the udders are full there all the year round” (Book 
IV, 46). These references demonstrate that already in Homer existed the myth of 
an imaginary land of happiness and prosperity, where the natives had an 
abundance of all things and were free from hunger, illness, and war. 

In The Works and Days (80, vv. 109-18), Hesiod delineated the distinct ages 
of the human race, conceived as five successive stages — the ages of gold, of 
silver, and of bronze, the age of the demigods, and the age of iron — 
representing an irreversible process of decadence and corruption. In this part of 
The Works and Days Hesiod has conceived three ideas that will become constants 
in western thought: 1) the idea of a golden age; 2) the idea of a blissful existence 
on the happy isles at the ends of the earth; 3) the idea of the age of iron as one of 
corruption and evil. Also, it is clear from these references that Hesiod conceived 
the history of man from a moral point of view. In fact, Hesiod’s view of the 
history of mankind anticipates the views of two Christian thinkers: St. 
Augustine and Dante, both of whom conceived history from a moral point of 
view. In this conception, the fall, or decadence, of man occurs in a world that had 
already known better ages, while happiness, if it exists at all, is relegated to the 
ends of the earth and, practically speaking, is beyond man’s reach. Saint 
Augustine’s City of God corresponds, in an apocalyptic way, to Dante’s final 
vision of Heaven in the Divine Comedy, once the new golden age proclaimed in 
the Monarchia had failed because of the death of Henry VII. Humanism, 
especially in Petrarch and Salutati, facilitated the integration of Christian charity 
into classical morality. 

In the fourth Eclogue Virgil had prophesized the coming of the golden age: 
“from the very beginning is born the great series of centuries; even the Virgin 
returns, and Saturn reigns again, / and now a new generation descends from 
heaven on high.’”® In the Aeneid, Book VI, he had alluded to the golden age when 
Anchises named the Roman heroes yet unborn and prophesized the return of the 
golden age of Saturn, the “plenitudo temporis,” that Augustus would bring back 
to Italy.’ 

But the unsurpassed poetic rendition of the golden age, and the one which 
has best endured the passing of time, is that contained in Book I of Ovid’s 
Metamorphoses (vv. 101-50). Virgil’s evocation of the golden age was designed 


6 My translation from the Latin text of Bucoliche IV, wv. 5-7. 

“But look, now! Look! Here comes your family, / your Roman children: Caesar and all the sons / 
of Julius who’ll come beneath the vault of heaven. / Here is the man you’ve heard so often 
promised: / Augustus, son of godhead. He’ll rebuild / a golden age in Latium, land where once / 
Saturn was king" (Virgil, The Aeneid, Book VI, vv. 788-94). 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 53 


to identify for the Roman audience, weary of the long civil strife after Caesar’s 
assassination, the coming of an age of peace and prosperity under Augustus who 
would restore peace and justice. He had conceived the golden age as a restoration 
of Saturn’s kingdom under the reign of Augustus, whereas Ovid reverts to 
Hesiod’s pessimistic view: mankind had entered a stage of irreversible decadence 
and, apparently, the victory of Augustus had no meaning for him. 

In Tacitus, for the first time, the motif of the golden age and of the natural 
man came together in the interpretation of a historically true situation — the 
description of the life and customs of the Germanic peoples. In his Germania, 
the Roman historian describes the valor and courage of the Germans, and 
contrasts the nobility of their customs with the obvious corruption and decadence 
of the Roman society of his time. While he does not conceal the vices of the 
Germans, like their tendency to drunkenness, to gambling and to violence, it is 
evident from the text that the historian wishes to present a clear contrast between 
the Germans and the Romans. This opposition acquires moral value, as we can 
see in certain passages, like that in which Tacitus refers to the German warriors 
who “bring back the bodies of the fallen even when a battle hangs in the balance. 
To throw away one’s shield is the supreme disgrace, and the man who has thus 
dishonored himself is debarred from attendance at sacrifice or assembly. Many 
such survivors from the battlefield have ended their shame by hanging 
themselves” (Germania, Chapter 6, 106-07). The same moralistic and didactic 
purpose can be perceived in the description of the election of the German chiefs: 
“They choose their kings for their noble birth, their commanders for their 
valour” (Chapter 7, 107). The courage of the ancient Germans is based on their 
love for their wives and children.? It is their love for their women and for liberty 
that often inspires them to heroic deeds even when the battle seems lost. 

The marriage customs of the Germans are also exemplary: “Their marriage 
code, however, is strict, and no feature of their morality deserves higher praise. 
They are almost unique among barbarians in being content with one wife apiece 
...” (Chapter 18, 116). 

Tacitus describes how, before undertaking major decisions, the Germans first 
drink heavily to better reveal their intentions in public and, the day after, decide 
what course of action to follow: “They debate when they are incapable of 
pretence but reserve their decision for a time when they cannot well make a 
mistake” (Chapter 22, 120). 

One might interpret these remarks of Tacitus as a commentary on the 


Bua specially powerful incitement to valour is that the squadrons and divisions are not made up at 
random by the mustering of chance-comers, but are each composed of men of one family or clan. 
Close by them, too, are their nearest and dearest, so that they can hear the shrieks of their 
womenfolk and the wailing of their children. These are the witnesses whom each man reverences 
most highly, whose praise he most desires. It is to their mothers and wives that they go to have their 
wounds treated, and the women are not afraid to count and compare the gashes. They also carry 
supplies of food to the combatants and encourage them” (Chapter VII, p. 107). 


54 Stelio Cro 


infallibility of natural instinct, as opposed to the elaborate, cunning politics of 
the Roman Empire which are based on civil conventions. One can perceive 
throughout the work an admiration for the German society that did not know the 
vices or the conventions of civilized peoples. 

The texts referred to above are a sample of the classical thought on the topic 
of the golden age of mankind and of primitive man in the state of nature. He is 
the opposite of the corrupt and decadent man of iron in the works of Hesiod, 
Ovid, and Tacitus. By contrast, in Homer and Virgil the emphasis is on an 
archetypal happy state, free from the want, sickness and pain that accompany the 
life of all mortals. Also, in Hesiod, Ovid, and Tacitus the preponderant vice of a 
corrupt society is greed, whereas the lack of it characterizes the happy state of 
nature. But it is Tacitus who, for the first time, applied a literary topos to a 
historical human group, the Germans, by making them a model of behavior and 
opposing them to the Romans of his times. As we will see, this model provided 
by Tacitus will prevail in the literature of the discovery and conquest of the New 
World. The motif of the golden age and its opposite, decadence, will co-exist 
with that of the noble savage, and in certain chroniclers, like Quiroga, will 
inspire reform. 

In the Middle Ages Dante was the author who best interpreted the concept of 
the golden age in the light of both pagan and Christian traditions. His concept of 
plenitudo temporis comes from two classical sources, Virgil and Ovid. However, 
in his works Dante has given two allegorical readings of Virgil’s famous fourth 
Eclogue: a temporal one, heralding the imminent arrival of Henry VII of 
Luxembourg, as stated in his letter to this Emperor, referring specifically to 
Virgil’s fourth Eclogue;? and a spiritual one — the plenitudo temporis of the 
evangelical utopia — referring to the fulfillment of the apocalyptical events 
announced in the Holy Scriptures.!° In his temporal interpretation Dante has 


9 «Tunc plerique vota sua prevenientes in iubilo tam Satumia regna quam Virginem redeuntem 
cum Marone cantabant” (“The majority, with happy anticipation of the fulfillment of their desires, 
sang with Virgil of Saturn’s kingdom and the retum of the Virgin [Astraea, that is, Justice]. Tutte 
le opere, ed. Chiappelli. All references to Dante’s epistles are to this edition. The English 
translation of this and other passages are mine). 

“... non inveniemus nisi sub divo Augusto monarcha, existente Monarchia perfecta, mundum 
undique fuisse quietum. Et quod tunc humanum genus fuerit felix in pacis universalis tranquillitate, 
hoc ystoriographi omnes, hoc poete illustres, hoc etiam scriba mansuetudinis Christi testari dignatus 
est; et denique Paulus ‘plenitudinem temporis’ statum illum felicissimum appellavit.” (“We will not 
see, except under the government of the divine emperor Augustus, that there ever was a perfect 
world government, when the world was at peace everywhere. The fact that then mankind was 
happy and reassured in universal peace is testified by all historians, the most famous poets, even 
the evangelist of Christ’s sweetness; and even Paul called that most happy age ‘the fullness of 
time.’”) Dantis Alligherii. De monarchia, ed. Witte, 1874, I, xvi, 6-12. All passages from De 
monarchia are taken from this edition. The English translation of this and subsequent passages are 
mine. The classical sources for this passage of De monarchia are the following: Aeneid I, 1, 
passim; III, 359-462; IV, 265-76; VI, 788-853; VIII, 36, passim; XII, 936; Titus Livius, Ab urbe 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 55 


utilized Virgil’s text as one of the main sources in order to justify his 
antitheocratic doctrine. However, Virgil is not the only classical source of Dante. 
The other source is the passage from Book I of Ovid’s Metamorphoses. There is 
a profound difference between the two classical sources: whereas Virgil conceives 
Augustus’ age as plenitudo temporis, Ovid alludes to it as an age of decadence, 
an iron age, bemoaning the passing of the ancient golden age which he considers 
irretrievably lost. 

As we have already said, Italian Humanism could not ignore the influence of 
the motif of the golden age and of the noble savage, who was good because he 
lived in a natural state. But, unlike Dante, the Humanists gave this motif an 
earthly and historical perspective, the possibility to apply its theoretical 
consequences to a new interpretation of life and of man that was neither mystical 
nor religious, but rather lay and scientific. The Humanists actually adopted a 
view of the golden age similar to that of Virgil. Whereas Virgil had indicated 
Augustus as the individual promoter of a new golden age, the Italian Humanists 
confided in their political masters as the agents of plenitudo temporis, the best 
example being Lorenzo il Magnifico. 

We have already made reference to a letter by Bracciolini. In the conception 
of Humanism there is much confidence in the capacity and goodness of nature 
guided by human reason. For this reason some of the greatest Humanists sought 
confirmation of their intuitions among the primitive tribes of Europe, because 
they considered them as societies at a natural state. This text not only draws on 
Tacitus for information about the Germans, traditionally conceived as “noble 
savages,” but as the inspiration to continue the opposition Germans-Romans 
conceived by Tacitus, with the new opposition Germans-Italians. This new 
opposition is all the more significant because the Germans of Poggio are 
conceived as the ideal inhabitants of the natural state of humanism, that is, the 
Republic of Plato, the model utopia of classical times, the genre that best 
represented the ideals of Humanism. 

Bracciolini’s text is at the same time the model for both the Humanist view 
of the noble savage in the state of nature and the early chroniclers’ view of the 
inhabitants of the New World. Having provided the model which would become 
a blueprint for the early chroniclers of America, it seems that the Italian 
Humanists soon discarded it in favor of its purely literary treatment, the best 
example of which is Ariosto’s Orlando furioso. But with a few notable 
exceptions: Peter Martyr, who spent most of his productive life at the court of 
the Catholic Kings, Pietro Bembo, and Tommaso Campanella looked backward 
with nostalgia to the ancient, classical world rather than forward to the 
challenges presented by the discovery. Perhaps Garin’s explanation is sufficient 
to understand this apparent contradiction. Or perhaps we could explain it by 
saying that Italian Humanism and the Renaissance were idealistic in nature and 


condita; the sources from the Holy Scriptures are Luke II, 1; St. Paul, Letter to the Galatians IV, 4. 


56 Stelio Cro 


created a world with little connection with historical reality. Ariosto himself 
provided the model for countless historical poems on the discovery and conquest 
of America written by Spaniards, the most famous of which is the Araucana by 
Ercilla. In these poems the fictional quality of Ariosto’s poem is discarded in 
favor of a historical representation of the actual events. 

It would seem that the culture of the Italian Renaissance, with its emphasis 
on evasion from reality, could hardly provide any more models for the early 
chroniclers of America. And yet it did provide the ideological framework: a 
philosophy which had assimilated Platonism and Christianity during the 
Quattrocento, namely in the works of Pico della Mirandola and Marsilio Ficino 
(Cro, “Socrate”). The discoverer himself and, after him, the early chroniclers, 
writers and thinkers such as Montaigne and Campanella, provided a view of the 
noble savage which defied the assumptions of western thought. Over a span of a 
hundred years authors such as Thomas More, Guillaume Budé, Giordano Bruno 
and Francis Bacon laid down the foundations of modern science. Their view was 
conditioned by the first encounter of the European with the noble savage on 
October 12, 1492. 

In Columbus we see an important new element motivated by the medieval 
culture of the discoverer, since the classical myth of the golden age and the noble 
savage are decidedly reintroduced within the Biblical tradition in the same way as 
we have seen in Dante’s Divine Comedy. But whereas in Dante the Earthly 
Paradise was a mystical revelation at the top of the mountain of Purgatory, in 
Columbus it is an actual geographic discovery and it represents the culmination 
of the navigator’s yearning to fulfill a religious mission of world 
evangelization.!! 

The landscape and the inhabitants of the islands and coastal areas of America 
convinced Columbus that he had found the golden age of the Bible and classical 
antiquity. His first description of the American Indian launched the legend of the 
noble savage for centuries to come: “These people are very peaceful and fearful, 
naked as I have said, with no weapons and without laws” (Cuatro viajes 54). 
They are described as not having any laws, a condition which Tacitus had 
underscored for the primitive Germans and one which was quickly seized upon by 
the first historian of the discovery, Peter Martyr, an Italian Humanist at the 
service of the Catholic Kings who, drawing from classical sources, refers to the 
general characteristics of the American Indians as if they lived in the golden age. 
More importantly, Peter Martyr established a difference in the comparison with a 


11 Whereas I reject the extreme thesis of Kirkpatrick Sale (The Conquest of Paradise) that 
Columbus was an unscrupulous adventurer, who only by chance reached the New World and, 
once there, provided the example of all the evils bemoaning America, from slavery and racism to 
enviromental disaster, I do believe that there is a great ambiguity in the personality of the 
Discoverer: on one hand he is bound on a mystical plan of world evangelization and, on the other, 
he seeks to obtain great material advantages from this seemingly spiritual enterprise. 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage Di 


classical model of the Renaissance, Virgil’s Aeneid, judging the naked man in 
the New World as happier than the idealized Italic population of Latium found by 
Aeneas. Peter Martyr had met frequently with Columbus. His De orbe novo is as 
much the result of his own investigations as the outcome of many hours spent 
with the Admiral himself and his family, as well as a personal desire to leave a 
testimony of the very first encounter between the naked man and the European. 

Peter Martyr was appointed first official historian of the discovery of the 
New World by the Emperor Charles V. The De orbe novo is composed of eight 
Decades, which the author began in 1493 and completed in 1525, a year before 
his death. It is one of the most fragmented, elaborate literary endeavors ever 
attempted and was the subject of several attempts at plagiarism which caused the 
author considerable urgency to publish his work vefore its completion in 
152512 

From the First Decade, Peter Martyr clearly feels that the discovery is a 
revelation of the golden age. He confirms this point of view by showing the 
similarities between the happy state of the naked Indians and that of the Italic 
populations found by Aeneas as they are described by Virgil in the Aeneid. But 
Peter Martyr believes that the islanders of Hispaniola are happier than those of 
Latium, provided that they are taught the true religion, because they live naked 
in a true golden age, without weights and measures, or dishonest judges, or 


12 Between 1493 and 1494 Peter Martyr wrote the first two books of the first decade, which he 
concluded in 1500. The work was written in Latin. The first editions were printed without the 
permission of the author. The first nine books of the first decade were printed in Italian, in Venice, 
in 1504. The editor was Angelo Trevisan, who gave it the title of Libretto de tutta la navigatione del 
Re di Spagna de le isole et terreni nuovamente ritrovati, and the publisher was Albertino 
Vercellese. In 1507 Fracanzio da Montalboddo reprinted it as Paesi nuovamente ritrovati et Nuovo 
Mondo da Alberico Vesputio florentino intitulato, in Vicenza. The first decade was published by 
Cromberg in 1511 in Seville, again without the author’s permission, with the title of P. Martyris 
Angli Mediolanensis opera. Legatio Babilonica. Oceani decas. Poemata. Epigrammata. The author 
himself then published it, along with the second decade which he had finished in 1514 and the 
third, completed in 1516, in Alcalé de Henares, with the title De Orbe Novo Decades. The fourth 
decade, which Peter Martyr finished in 1520, was published a year later in Basel, Switzerland, 
with the title De nuper sub Domino Carolo repertis insulis simulque incolarum moribus. The fifth 
decade was written between 1521 and 1523; the sixth and seventh in 1524; and the eighth, and last, 
in 1525. They were published posthumously by Miguel de Eguia in 1530, in Alcala de Henares, 
together with the first four, with the title De orbe novo Petri Martyris ab Angleria Mediolanensis 
protonotarii Cesaris senatoris decades. The editor was Antonio de Nebrija, the leading Spanish 
humanist of the time. The edition which circulated widely was that of Paris, 1587, prepared by 
Richard Hakluyt, the author of Voyages, Navigations, Traffiques, and Discoveries of the English 
Nation (London, 1599). Hakluyt’s edition, with almost the same title as that of Nebrija — De Orbe 
Novo Petri Martyris Anglerii Mediolanensis, Protonotarij, et Caroli quinti Senatoris Decades octo, 
diligenti temporum observatione, et utilissimis annotationibus illustratae suoque nitori restitutae, 
labore et industria Richardi Hakluyti Oxoniensis Angli: Additus est in usum lectoris accuratus totius 
operis index. Parisiis, apud Guillelmum Avray, via d. Joannis Bellouacensis, sub insignia 
Bellerophonys coronati. M.D.L.XXXVII, cum privilegio Regis. Paris, 1587 — was the first complete 
edition of the De Orbe Novo which was published outside Spain. 


58 Stelio Cro 


books and, above all, without the deadly influence of money, and without fears 
for the future.!? The importance of this text resides in the fact that the happy 
state of the Indians is conceived as the antithesis of the contemporary European 
state. The Indians live in a state of nature and Peter Martyr places emphasis on 
those characteristics that have become an essential part of the utopian tradition: 
the absence of private property and the greed for material goods that accompanies 
it, and the goodness of the natives that have none of the vices, perfidity, or 
deceitfulness common to civilized men. Thus, because of their natural qualities 
— the superiority of natural laws to man-made laws and their disregard for 
money and precious metals — they will easily be converted to the Christian 
faith. In order to demonstrate the superiority of the natural state, Peter Martyr 
describes how some Spaniards were shipwrecked and, in order to survive, joined a 
tribe of Indians, living in common with them for eighteen months until they 
were rescued. Peter Martyr says that the Spaniards were very content because 
they lived without quarreling about “mine” and “thine,” about “give me” and “I 
will not give,” that are the two things that wear upon man in this life.!4 In other 
words, Peter Martyr believes that to live in a natural state can even modify the 
corrupt customs of the Europeans. This belief in the infallibility of the natural 
system is a fundamental aspect in the development of the modern utopian genre, 
so intimately related to the discovery of the New World. 

With Peter Martyr the myth of the golden age took on a new dimension. 
Whereas classical authors such as Hesiod and Ovid identified the golden age with 
an irrevocable past contrasted with a corrupt and decadent present and the Middle 
Ages offered a mystical solution after death (Dante), Peter Martyr offered a 
coherent view of the American native as the happy noble savage superior even to 
the Virgilian primitive golden man and, by extension, of the superiority of the 
new science over the old. From that point on, the myth of the noble savage, in 
the interpretations of such diverse authors as Las Casas, Benzoni, Montaigne, 
Campanella, Defoe, Vico, Montesquieu, Voltaire, and Rousseau, gradually 
became the symbol of the new era of individual freedom. 

Before analyzing the third and final stage of the elaboration of the myth in 
the Italian Humanist tradition, we must focus our attention on Bembo’s decisive 
contribution to the spreading of the myth for two reasons: first, because of the 
prestige he enjoyed throughout the intellectual circles of Europe and, second, 
because his view was a clear departure from that held by his acknowledged 
source, his great friend, the historian Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo, author of the 


13 “Hispaniolos nostros insulares illis beatiores esse sentio, modo religionem inbuent; quia nudi, 
sine ponderibus, sine mensura, sine mortifera denique pecunia, aurea aetate viventes, sine legibus, 
sine calomniosis iudicibus, sine libris, natura contenti vitam agunt, de futuro minime soliciti” (De 
Orbe Novo 18). 

“Compertum est apud eos, velut solem et aquam, terram esse communem, neque Meum aut 
Tuum, malorum omnium semina, cadere inter ipsos” (De Orbe Novo 37). 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 59 


monumental Historia general y natural de las Indias. In 1530 Bembo was 
appointed official historian of the Venetian Republic, a very prestigious position 
and one which would guarantee that his opinions on historical matters would 
enjoy the blessing of such a prestigious government as that of the 
“Serenissima,” in the first half of the sixteenth-century at the zenith of her 
political, military and economic power. From Venice Bembo wrote a letter to 
Oviedo, dated April 20, 1538, to inform him of his appointment and of the fact 
that he had utilized Oviedo’s work to extract the news on the New World for his 
own [storia veneziana (Lettere, II, 107), which he had begun in 1530. Bembo 
used Oviedo as a source for Book IV of his work, the one which deals with the 
geographic discoveries and travels by the Spaniards and the Portuguese which, he 
adds, affected negatively Venetian trade ([storia Veneziana, IV, 137-38). He refers 
succinctly to the main events of the discovery: Columbus’ trip, the mistake of 
ancient philosophers who believed that the antipodes were uninhabited, the 
islands peopled by naked men of “mite ingegno,” that is, peaceful, the abundance 
of gold and the lack of monetary currency. Of the second trip of Columbus 
Bembo remembers the cannibals, the temperate climate of Hispaniola, the lush 
vegetation and the prophecy among the Indians of the arrival of the Europeans. 
Above all he describes the Indians as living in the golden age: “. . . la eta 
viveano dell’oro: nessuna misura de’ campi conosceano; non giudicii, non leggi, 
non uso di lettere aveano, non di mercantare: non in lungo tempo, ma di giorno 
in giorno viveano” (IV, 353-54). Although Bembo acknowledged Oviedo as his 
source, his description seems drawn from Peter Martyr’s De orbe novo, a text 
which he translates almost word for word. This first impression is confirmed by 
a reading of Oviedo’s text. In a passage of Book VI of the Historia general 
Oviedo lists the same characteristics first documented in Peter Martyr’s De orbe 
novo and then repeated verbatim by Bembo. But whereas Bembo, following 
Peter Martyr’s model, considered these characteristics as proof of the blissful 
state of the golden age enjoyed by the naked men of the New World, Oviedo 
considered them the decisive proof of the Indians’ barbarity and backwardness, 
another reason that they should be enslaved by their European conquerors 
(Historia general, Book VI, 90). This clear difference of views between the two 
Italian Humanists on one hand, and, on the other, the Spanish historian who 
best interpreted the spirit of the Spanish conquest, prepares the way for the 
revisionist view of Las Casas, an implacable adversary of Oviedo, a view upheld 
by Montaigne and Campanella (Cro: 1982, 53-64). Finally, and this is also 
taken from Peter Martyr, Bembo claims that the achievements of the Spaniards 
by far exceeded those of classical antiquity (storia veneziana IV, 359). 
Montaigne and Campanella systematically developed Peter Martyr’s 
observations on the state of the American Indians and their observance of the 
laws of nature. They also suggested the relative value of the Bible in matters of 


60 Stelio Cro 


science, based on the evidence provided by the chronicles of the discovery.!> At 
the end of Book I of the “Third Decade,” faced with the Aristotelian and 
Augustinian traditions that the antipodes were uninhabited, Peter Martyr had 
clearly expressed reservations on the scientific validity of St. Augustine’s 
doctrine: “I have said antipodes, although I am aware of the fact that men of great 
intelligence and outstanding for their great knowledge, among them some saints, 
have denied their existence. But no one knows everything.”!® 

With the notable exceptions of Peter Martyr and Bembo, Italian Humanism 
did not register the impact of the discovery until Tommaso Campanella became 
the first Italian Humanist to deal effectively with the scientific and cultural 
impact of the New World. His interest in Columbus reveals at the same time the 
philosophical originality of Campanella and the dramatic passing of time prior 
to the philosophical acknowledgment of the discovery. 

Columbus appears in almost every major work by Campanella and 
embodies the very spirit of the poet’s philosophy.!? More importantly, 
Columbus is at the very heart of Campanella’s most famous work, The City of 
the Sun. The discovery of the New World signals the coming of the golden age, 
as Columbus’ pilot states (Citta del Sole 1113). A central theme in Campanella 
is the superiority of the new science, a theme which in turn is related to that of 
ancient and modern authors (the “querelle des anciens et modernes’”’). Following 
the lead provided by both Peter Martyr and Bembo, Campanella clearly resolves 
this dilemma in favor of the modern.!8 

The “querelle” has recently enjoyed renewed scholarly attention (Maravall 
239-77). However, the importance of the relationship between Campanella and 
Columbus has not received the attention it deserves in order to elucidate the 
question of ancient and modern and the impact of the discovery on modern 
historiography. In his study Antiguos y modernos Maravall sees the discovery of 
the New World as the decisive moment in which the chronicles conceive a 
progressive view of history (441-53). The author identifies the precedents of this 
view in the Italian Humanists of the Quattrocento, tracing the use of the word 
“modern” from Dante to the Italian and Spanish Humanists of the fifteenth 
century and distinguishing the two moments in which he believes the new view 
took place: first came imitation, then emulation and overcoming (239-277). In 
this general picture Maravall includes in the same progressive movement 
Machiavelli, Oviedo and Las Casas. According to Maravall, the first embodies 


15 For Montaigne see my studies The Noble Savage: Allegory of Freedom 13-51; “Montaigne y 
Pedro Martir: las raices del buen salvaje”; “El buen salvaje y la edad modema.” 
16 “Antipodes dixi, quamvis me non praetereat, non defuisse viros alioque ingenio singulari et 
summa doctrina pollentes, coelitibusque ex his admixtos nonnullos qui antipodes negent. Non est 
cuiquam uni datum omnia scire” (De Orbe Novo 188). 

For a study of Campanella’s leading role at the crossroads of modemity, see my study Tommaso 
Campanella e i prodromi della civilta moderna. 

Tommaso Campanella e i prodromi della civilta moderna 149-56; see Woodhouse’s review. 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 61 


imitation and the other two emulation and overcoming. We can see in this 
approach two kinds of problems. The first is methodological, the second can be 
defined as ideological and in turn comprises two different aspects. In the first 
place we face here two opposing moral values. For Machiavelli the example of 
the ancient past justifies the principle of political domination with no regard to 
morality, Christian or otherwise, when and if morality stands in the way of 
political expediency. For the chroniclers, especially Peter Martyr and Las Casas, 
the defense of the human rights and dignity of the Indian is a central theme. 

Let us now examine the methodological problem raised by Maravall’s 
approach. He is basically correct when he argues that the discovery was the 
decisive element in the development of a feeling of belonging to a different time, 
even a feeling of superiority with regard to ancient times which ultimately had a 
decisive influence on “a progressive vision of history” (453). However, in 
Machiavelli there is no reference to the discovery and we are repeatedly told that 
Roman history is the insuperable model for the ideal citizen. Maravall’s 
approach, with the omission of Columbus from the primitive chroniclers and of 
Campanella from the thinkers who first related the discovery to a new sense of 
modernity, reveals the historical and philosophical difficulties in determining the 
birth of the ideal of modernity in relation to the discovery. It may be helpful at 
this point to remember that Campanella was the first European thinker to state 
inequivocally that modern science was superior to ancient science (Apologia 75). 

Chronology is only one of the possible criteria which would allow an 
assessment of the new ideas which will coalesce in a new coherent vision of the 
world as a consequence of the discovery. Another criterium is that of the history 
of ideas which would have an advantage in that it uses chronology as a statistical 
reference, but does not depend on it for the assessment of the impact the new 
ideas had on western thought in general and on Italian Humanism in particular. 
With this in mind let us focus our discussion on two themes which have 
survived up to the present time: the myth of the noble savage and that of the 
golden age. It would be sufficient to point out the importance that the myth of 
the noble savage had for the philosophes of the Enlightenment. Campanella is 
the first Italian thinker to systematize the myth of the golden age within the 
framework of a new philosophy: the unity of the world is based on a new science 
founded on Columbus’ discoveries. In fact, in the City of the Sun Campanella 
speaks of the Solarians as the inhabitants of his utopia, placed within the 
geographic discoveries of Columbus. As we will see, this attention given to the 
new man by Columbus can be considered another discovery in its own right. 

Campanella points to Columbus as the hero of the renovatio which is at the 
very core of his entire opus and which aims at a double target: on one hand to 
free scientific speculation from Aristotelism, on the other to recover the greatest 
political realization of the Middle Ages: the unity and peace of Christendom. 
However, as regards his first aim, Campanella’s perspective is the opposite of 
Columbus’. The Admiral saw in every discovery a sign of the Biblical truth; for 


62 Stelio Cro 


example, he was convinced he had reached the Earthly Paradise. In Columbus’ 
writings One can see a very complex personality, an unusual mixture of 
mysticism and practical sense, of missionary fervor and superb navigational 
skill. In a sense his Medieval culture is the most original element of his own 
view of his discoveries. Although the Vikings were the first Europeans to set 
foot in the New World, Columbus was the first to interpret that discovery 
according to western values and to present its elaboration in the language of 
myth: the evangelization, the capitalistic development, the classical myths of the 
noble savage and the Amazons and the classical-scriptural myth of the golden 
age/Earthly Paradise. Above all, Columbus can claim two discoveries: a New 
World and a new man. This second discovery would produce a great body of 
books and would pose the one question which remains unresolved still today: the 
treatment received by the Indians by the different European conquerors. Las 
Casas’ accusations against the Spaniards contained in his works, especially in 
the Brevisima relaci6n de la destrucci6n de las Indias, are based primarily on 
Columbus’ Diary, Peter Martyr’s De orbe novo and his own first-hand 
observations in the New World. With typical Medieval attitude, Columbus 
believes that scientific truth confirms scriptural truth. 

We see quite the opposite in Campanella. Although he expresses his 
admiration for the great navigator, it is admiration for the hero of experience, the 
living proof against the prejudices of Aristotelism and Scholasticism. He 
presents Columbus as an explorer who has succeeded in knowing more through 
his own physical experience than the Christian theologians and the Fathers of 
the Church have done with their minds.!9 In a poem entitled “To the Italians, 
distracted with Greek Myths,” he interprets the meaning of the discovery: 
“Christopher Columbus, a daring genius / between two worlds for Caesar and 
Christ / builds a bridge, and conquers the vast ocean.”2° Contrary to Columbus, 
Campanella believes in the autonomy of scientific inquiry from theological 
dogmas, and wishes to make a clear separation between scientific truth and 
scriptural beliefs. For him Columbus’ discovery, far from vindicating Medieval 
culture, is the final blow to Aristotelism and Scholasticism, the foundations of 
the Medieval school, because in his view it proves that God never intended for 
the Bible to contain any scientific truth. Neither Christ nor Moses were 
concerned with experimental science, nor did they intend to pose limitations on 
science: “Neither Holy Moses, nor the Lord Jesus have revealed for us 
physiology or astronomy. . . . and whoever prohibits to Christians the study of 





19 “Pil vide Cristofano Colombo, genovese, con gli occhi, e pili col corpo corse, che non fecero 
gli poeti, filosofi e teologi, Augustino e Lattanzio, con la mente, che negaro 1’antipodi” 
“Esposizione.” Tutte le opere di Tommaso Campanella 101). 

9 “Cristoforo Colombo, audace ingegno,/ fa fra due mondi a Cesare ed a Cristo / ponte, e 
dell’oceano immenso acquisto” (“Agl’Italiani, che attendono a poetar con le favole greche,” Tutte 
le opere 100). The translation of this and other passages is mine. 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 63 


philosophy and science also prevents them from being Christian, and it is a 
quality of Christian religion to recommend to his followers the study of all 
sciences because it is certain of its doctrine.”*! Campanella underscores in 
several of his works the failure of the theologians in the light of the evidence 
discovered by Columbus. In Del senso delle cose he states resolutely that the 
“sense” of Columbus proved beyond any doubt that the theologians had argued 
incorrectly: “Saint Augustine denied the Antipodes, just as Lactantius and others 
because of their beliefs; but Columbus set straight all those theories, and proved 
them wrong.”22 

Campanella inherited Italian Humanism’s admiration for man, for his ability 
to conquer the obstacles against which animals are impotent, a quality which 
denotes the divine nature of man (Del senso 203). The prototype of this superior 
being is Columbus because he has demonstrated the falsehood of ancient 
doctrines, pagan or Christian alike. To know is to have the proof, like 
Columbus: “Thus to know is to know with certainty and evidence. I have seen 
that the senses are more certain than any other knowledge that we acquire, even 
with our intellect or arguments and thanks to our memory because even its 
notions have their roots in our senses” (Del senso 206). No one argues against 
the evidence, and no one would even dream of arguing whether the New World 
existed after Columbus discovered it (Del senso 207). 

In his Apology, written originally in Latin in 1616, in defense of Galileo 
against the accusation of heresy, Campanella argues that scientific discoveries 
cannot oppose Christian dogma because the Scriptures had not dealt with 
scientific knowledge. Therefore in the Apology he defends his own doctrine, as 
well as Galileo’s. Christ has brought his message of eternal life and moral 
principles, without intervening in the scientific observation of the world which 
he left to human reason and experience. 

When one takes into account this basic notion of Campanella, even the City 
of the Sun can be seen as an allegory of the evidence uncovered by Columbus. In 
fact this utopia contains three essential ingredients of the American chronicles: 
1) a nation which has developed in a non-Christian civilization; 2) the state of 
nature which, as far as sexual habits, education and politics, is contrary to 
Christian morals; and 3) the admiration which the Solarians seem to display for 
the Christian values of Columbus, which follows closely the account of the first 
voyage in the Admiral’s Diary. To these traditional topoi derived from the 
chronicles of the discovery, Campanella adds the most important, his most 


21 »Né il Santo Mosé, né il Signore Gesi ci hanno rivelato la fisiologia e l’astronomia (...) chi non 
consente ai Cristiani lo studio della filosofia e della scienza, impedisce loro anche di essere 
Cristiani, e soltanto la religione cristiana raccomanda ai suoi seguaci lo studio di tutte le scienze, in 
uanto é certa della sua dottrina” (Apologia 61). 
2 «Santo Agostino nego gli Antipodi e cossi Lactanzio, e altri per alcune raggioni loro; ma il senso 
di Cristoforo Colombo emend6 tutte quelle raggioni, e le mostrd vane” (Del senso delle cose 207). 


64 Stelio Cro 


original contribution to the utopian genre: the pedagogical method of the 
Solarians who have devised a “natural” method of instruction by which the 
children learn when they are at the age which modern pedagogy would define 
“‘pre-schooling.” The method of Campanella, which precedes by a century and a 
half that of Rousseau, and by over three centuries that of Montessori, is based on 
the instinctive power of learning innate in every child, unspoiled by the artificial 
conventions of society, so that they “learn in one year what the European 
children cannot learn in ten” (Citta del Sole 1113). 

In the Apology Campanella states that the two codes of God, nature and the 
Scriptures, do not contradict, but clarify and confirm each other. It is 
unacceptable that only one philosopher knows the truth, because the world is the 
work of God and cannot be reduced to the mind of a single man. The human 
intellect knows the partial truths which complement each other, but cannot 
know the absolute truth because this is a divine attribute. The research for that 
truth is limited, but it contributes to better understand the Scriptural truth. 
Preconceived notions masked with science deny true science (Apologia 20). 
Campanella states that Galileo and Copernicus are right and that only the 
scientists, who are also genuinely religious, are qualified to give an opinion. 

Columbus and Galileo represent two symbols in Campanella: Columbus 
represents the superiority of physical evidence over theological dogma, when it 
comes to scientific truth, and Galileo represents the validity of observations 
based on experience. In the Apology Campanella claims the divine and natural 
origin of man’s intelligence. Therefore religious faith sharpens it. Taking into 
account this reading of the Apology, one can say that with the City of the Sun 
Campanella intended to show, through a literary allegory, that it is only natural 
to pursue scientific research, since it stimulates even man’s religious awareness 
and prepares him to be a better Christian, like the Solarians of whom 
Columbus’ pilot says: “If these, who are now in a state of nature, are so close to 
Christianity that it does not add anything to natural law except for the 
Sacraments, I must argue that the true religion is Christianity which, once freed 
from corruption, will conquer the world” (Citta del Sole 1113). This allegorical 
reading of the City of the Sun seems to have been suggested by the author 
himself in a passage of the Apology in which he refers to the different levels of 
meaning of the Scriptures giving the example of Moses who used allegories in 
order to be understood by the people (Apologia 40). 

Campanella was also the first to underscore the second fundamental 
discovery of Columbus: the new man who did not descend from Adam. He 
emphasizes that it is not necessary that all men descend from Adam because, just 
as Columbus’ discovery has shown that Saint Augustine was wrong to believe 
that the Antipodes did not exist, the theologians may be wrong in this regard as 
well (Apologia 91). Nevertheless, Campanella justifies Saint Augustine’s 
mistake by arguing that his error did not result from lack of faith but was the 
product of his insufficient scientific knowledge (Apologia 103). The Solarians do 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 65 


not descend from Adam, therefore they do not have original sin and do not need 
Redemption. This does not mean that they cannot convert to Christianity: “Even 
in the hypothesis that there are other men on other planets, they could not have 
been stained by Adam’s sin, because they do not descend from him and they 
would not need Redemption” (Apologia 137). 

Campanella begins his Theology by arguing the need to update religious 
beliefs with the scientific discoveries. He specifically makes reference to the 
discovery of the New World and of new nations, whose origin we do not know, 
and to the discovery of a new heaven and new stars and new heavenly systems 
and of new cosmovisions conceived after Copernicus, and to the marvelous 
meanings of the sun, the moon and the stars observed by the astronomers who 
cannot explain their discoveries because they do not comprehend God’s plan 
(Cro, Campanella 154). A revision of theology is necessary if one would avoid 
ridicule by those who follow the empiricist method, like Galileo. 

Columbus, Galileo, Machiavelli and Luther were for Campanella the four 
incarnations of the fundamental questions of modern times: the discovery of the 
New World, which in turn led to the new empirical science, the insufficiency of 
the reason of state devoid of moral and religious principles and the Protestant 
Reformation (Apologia 105). It was necessary to find a solution to these 
pressing questions. Campanella believed that he had found it: metaphysics 
should inquire into the truth of values, whereas science would inquire into the 
knowledge of physical phenomena. In this way Campanella sought to eliminate 
the conflict which modern science had provoked in religious conscience and by 
contrast he sought to achieve harmony between science and faith. 

The impact of the discoveries of Columbus, Copernicus and Galileo can be 
clearly gauged in Campanella. They also prompted him to revise the question of 
the relationship between modern and ancient science according to the following 
criteria: 1) the Greeks’ concept of empirical science was incorrect; 2) science 
justifies itself. Christianity does not deny science and whoever does so because 
of his mistaken notion of faith does harm to both, faith and science. Whoever 
pursues scientific knowledge discovers the infinite wisdom of God (Apologia 
137-50). The Apology not only underscores his ideas with a clear reference to his 
preceding works, but expresses his belief in a conciliation between Christian 
belief and scientific truth. In this synthesis the material of the chronicles of the 
discovery of America had a decisive influence. It gave him the evidence of the 
mistaken scientific notions of the Fathers of the Church, such as Saint 
Augustine and Lactantius. He therefore renewed science and limited religious 
inquiry, arguing that free scientific research would benefit religious faith. Thus 
Campanella’s stance is still unsurpassed on the century old polemic on the 
secularity of Italian Humanism. 

The New World offered Tommaso Campanella the solution to one of the 
gravest problems confronting the Renaissance: how to redeem the original 
Christian spirit from the corruption of the Church. The desire to awaken the 


66 Stelio Cro 


purity of spirit of the primitive Christianity goes back to the first millennium 
after Christ, when it was believed that the end of the world was imminent. 
Gioacchino da Fiore is the major representative of this apocalyptic vision. The 
rediscovery of the classical culture that took place during the Renaissance 
complicated even more this aspiration toward renewal. The failure of the 
Florentine utopia of Savonarola and the death of the Dominican monk by order 
of Pope Alexander VI was only one example of the conflict between those who 
wished to return Christianity to its primitive purity, on the one side, and the 
Papacy, on the other. But the New World was free of corruption and inhabited by 
docile and peaceful men who lived in a golden age of purity and natural wisdom. 
For this reason the New World was the ideal seat to construct the New 
Jerusalem. The church of Christ would leave Rome, the seat of its corruption, 
and would be temporarily re-established in the New World where, restored to its 
original purity, it would once again return to its natural destination, Jerusalem, 
where it would reign supreme (Cro, Campanella 134-35). 

From Bracciolini’s reference to the classical source of Tacitus, adapted to the 
immediate need of the humanistic interest and preference for the “natural man,” 
to Campanella’s theological interpretation of the role of the New World in 
reshaping the mission and priorities of the Catholic Church (Amerio 294-95), 
the myth of the Noble Savage is closely intertwined to that of the ideal state, 
thus providing a rich and still not fully explored field of research in the moral, 
religious and political issues which can still yield their beneficial results for a 
better understanding of both, Italian Humanism and the myths which most 
fascinated and occupied its intellectuals. 


McMaster University 


Opere citate 


Alighieri, Dante. Tutte le opere. Ed. Fredi Chiappelli. Milano: Mursia, 1965. 
. De Monarchia, Codicum Manuscriptorum Ope Emendati per Carolum Witte, 
Vindobonae, Sumptibus Guilielmi Braumuller, 1874. 
Amerio, Romano. JI sistema teologico di Tommaso Campanella. Milano: R. 
Ricciardi, 1972. 
Bembo, Pietro. Istoria veneziana. Opere. Venezia: F. Hertzhauser, 1729, vol. 4. 
. Lettere. 2 vols. Venezia: Scotto, 1552. 
Campanella, Tommaso. La Citta del Sole. Opere di Bruno e di Campanella. Ed. 
Augusto Guzzo and Romano Amerio. Milano: R. Ricciardi, 1956. 
. Apologia per Galileo. Ed. Salvatore Femiano. Milano: Marzorati, 1973. 
. Tutte le opere. Ed. Luigi Firpo. Verona: Mondadori, 1954. 
. Del senso delle cose. “Appendice.” G. Gentile. Studi sul Rinascimento. 
Firenze: Vallecchi, 1923. 


Italian Humanism and the Myth of the Noble Savage 67 


Columbus, Christopher. Los cuatro viajes del Almirante y su testamento. Ed. Ignacio 
Anzoategui. Madrid: Espasa-Calpe. Coleccién Austral, 1971. 

Cro, Stelio. “Las fuentes clasicas de la utopia moderna: el buen salvaje y las islas 
felices en la historiografia indiana.” Anales de literatura hispanoamericana 6 
(1977): 39-51. 

. “La utopia cristiano-social en el Nuevo Mundo.” Anales de literatura 

hispanoamericana 7 (1978) 87-129. 

. Tommaso Campanella e i prodromi della civilta moderna. Hamilton: The 
Symposium Press, 1979. 

. “La correspondencia epistolar entre el Cardenal Bembo y Fernandez de 
Oviedo: implicaciones histéricas, América y la Espafia del Siglo XVI.” Ed. 
Francisco de Solano and Fermin del Pino. Madrid: Centro Superior de 
Investigaciones Cientificas, 1982. 1: 53-64. 

. Realidad y utopia en el descubrimiento y conquista de la América Hispana 
(1492-1682). Troy, Michigan/Madrid: International Book Publishers/Fundacién 
Universitaria Espafiola, 1983. 

. “Socrate e l’allegoria della Sapienza nell’opera di Marsilio Ficino.” Jtalian 
Culture 4 (1983): 25-41. 

. “Montaigne y Pedro Martir: las raices del buen salvaje.” Revista de Indias 
190 (1990): 665-85. 

. The Noble Savage: Allegory of Freedom. Waterloo: Wilfrid Laurier 
University Press, 1990. 

. “El buen salvaje y la edad moderna: Hakluyt, Montaigne y Pedro Martir.” 
Cuadernos para Investigacion de la Literatura Hispdnica 14 (1991):173-80. 

Garin, Eugenio. La Rénaissance, histoire d'une révolution culturelle. Marabout 
Université Verviérs: Des Presses de Gérard, 1970. 

, ed. Prosatori latini del quattrocento. Milano: Ricciardi, 1952. 

Gerbi, Antonello. La natura delle Indie Nuove. Milano: Ricciardi, 1975. 

. La disputa del Nuovo Mondo. Storia di una polemica: 1750-1900. Milano: 
R. Ricciardi, 1983. 

Gilmore, Myron P. The World of Humanism. New York: Harper Torchbooks, 1962. 

Gonnard, René. La légende du bon sauvage. Contribution a l'étude des origines du 
socialisme. Paris: Librairie de Médicis, 1946. 

Hesiod. The Works and Days. The Works of Hesiod, Callimachus, and Theognis. 
London: G. Bell and Sons, 1914. 

Homer. The Odyssey of Homer. Trans. T. E. Shaw. New York: Galaxy, 1956. 

Landucci, Sergio. / filosofi e i selvaggi. 1580-1700. Bari: Laterza, 1972. 

Lévi-Strauss, Claude. La pensée sauvage. Paris: Plon, 1962. 

Levin, Harry. The Myth of the Golden Age in the Renaissance. Bloomington: Indiana 
UP, 1969. 

Maravall, José Antonio. Antiguos y Modernos. La idea del progreso en el desarrollo 
inicial de una sociedad. Madrid: Sociedad de Estudios y Publicaciones, 1966. 
Ovid. Metamorphoses. Trans. Frank Justus Miller. Loeb Classical Library. 2 vols. 

Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1971. 

Oviedo, Gonzalo Fernandez de. Historia general y natural de las Indias. Ed. José 
Amador de los Rios. Madrid: Real Academia de la Historia, 1851. 

Pietro Martire d’Anghiera. De orbe novo Petri Martyris Anglerii Mediolanensis, 











68 Stelio Cro 


Protonotarij, et Caroli quinti Senatoris Decades octo, diligenti temporum 
observatione, et utilissimis annotationibus illustratae suoque nitori restitutae, 
labore et industria Richardi Hakluyti Oxoniensis Angli. Additus est in usum 
lectoris accuratus totius operis index. Parisiis, apud Guillelmum Avray. 
MDLXXXVI, 1587. 

Sale, Kirkpatrick. The Conquest of Paradise. New York: Alfred Knopf, 1991. 

Tacitus. The Agricola and the Germania. Trans. H. Mattingly. Rev. S. A. Handford. 
London: Penguin Books, 1970. 

Virgil. Bucoliche. Ed. Giuseppe Albini. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1960. 

. Aeneid. Trans. Frank O. Copley. Introd. Brooks Otis. Indianapolis: The 

Bobbs-Merrill Company, 1965. 

Woodhouse, John. Review of Tommaso Campanella e i prodromi della civilta 
moderna by Stelio Cro. The Modern Language Review 77 (1982): 739-42. 


The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 


The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 
1909, links its distinguished past of internationally known 
faculty and alumni to a lively and timely intellectual exchange 
in the present. The Department offers M.A. degrees in French, 
Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. The Ph.D. degree is offered in 
French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and in Romance 
Philology. 


Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. René Girard is a Distinguished 
Adjunct Professor of Romance Languages. 


Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispanéfila, and Annali d'Italianistica. 


Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 3,000,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. The Cooperative purchasing and borrowing 
programs with Duke University and North Carolina State University give easy 
access to those holdings that complement the University of North Carolina 
libraries. 


Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers 
numerous fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit 
Fellowships (including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-15,000; in 
addition to teaching stipends of $3,200 per section per semester, endowments 
enables the Department to offer supplemental scholarships of $1,000-2,000 to 
qualified students. Most students teach two or three sections of beginning 
language courses per academic year, according to their teaching experience and 
the University’s needs. 


Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to 
the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by 
writing to: The Graduate Secretary, Department of Romance Languages and 
Literatures, CB # 3170, 238 Dey Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 
Applicants requesting fellowships and assistantships must submit admission 
materials by February 1. 


Paola Zito 


Il Nuovo Mondo e la Vera Fede. 
L’opera d’evangelizzazione delle Americhe da parte 
della Compagnia di Gesu 


“Se crederai camminerai sulle acque, ma non appena avrai un dubbio affogherai” : 
cosi suona il titolo di un breve scritto di Matteo Ricci, concepito come corredo 
alle illustrazioni mediante le quali veniva raccontata ai cinesi, agli albori del 
XVII secolo, la storia del Vecchio e del Nuovo Testamento (Spence 77-80). 
Nell’operetta, ed a maggior ragione nella pil: ambiziosa e imponente costruzione 
del celebre Palazzo della memoria, ci & dato cogliere lo sforzo di ricercare 
“corrispondenze” non soltanto fonetiche e semantiche, ma anche ideologiche ed 
estetiche, atte a fornire una chiave adeguata per traslitterare-tradurre le grandi 
verita proclamate dalla Chiesa di Roma in un linguaggio in qualche modo 
fruibile da una cultura completamente altra da quella dell’Occidente latino. 
Artefice della complessa ed onerosa operazione — non a caso — un gesuita, un 
membro cioé di quell’Ordine che tanta propensione e tanto zelo era destinato a 
mostrare sul fronte delle “‘missioni”. Nell’arrogarsi il compito di una scrupolosa 
difesa dell’ortodossia, la Compagnia rapidamente diviene un’alacre officina di 
duttili categorie interpretative, idonee a trasformare ogni confronto in un trionfo 
del divino Monogramma. 

Piu ancora dell’Oriente, é il Nuovo Mondo — l’ignoto continente scoperto 
da Colombo quasi per errore — a costituire scenario privilegiato per una 
rappresentazione della Fede che efficacemente attinga a sofisticate tecniche di 
persuasione, ad un uso spregiudicato di timore e coinvolgimento, per sostituire 
nella mente e nel cuore dei “selvaggi” gli antichi idoli con il nuovo Dio, uno e 
trino. Era quanto andavano tentando, non senza qualche successo, Domenicani e 
Francescani,' che dopo vari decenni di militanza oltreoceano potevano vantare 
numerose conversioni e non pochi martiri. Ma il contributo dei seguaci di 
Sant’Ignazio si rivela ben presto determinante, non solo e non tanto per la 
quantita dei neofiti guadagnata dal loro apostolato, ma soprattutto per il vigore di 
una mediazione ideologica destinata ad ampie e complesse ripercussioni. 

Abili ed autorevoli filologi, sensibili conoscitori dei testi classici, i gesuiti 
appaiono ora come gli eredi naturali di quei Padri della Chiesa primitiva, che ad 
un atteggiamento di chiusura radicale nei confronti dell’universo pagano avevano 
ritenuto preferibile mostrarsi malleabili e concilianti: Origene per primo — e piu 
tardi Gerolamo — fecero appello ad un passo del Deuteronomio che suggeriva 


1 Prosperi, senz’altro denso di stimolanti riflessioni. 








Il nuovo mondo e la vera fede. L’ evangelizzazione delle Americhe 71 


agli ebrei il comportamento da adottare verso “la bella prigioniera”,? verso 
quanto, cioé — fuor di metafora — di bello e di buono apparteneva al nemico 
sconfitto. Si tratta della enunciazione di un metodo vero e proprio di approccio ad 
ogni altra fonte di dottrina o di sapere, il cui punto di forza consiste 
nell’ignorarne deliberatamente la diversita, leggendola piuttosto come embrione 
imperfetto ed inconsapevole, velato da false parvenze, dell’unica Verita che non 
conosce limiti cronologici né tanto meno geografici. 

“Si come hanno fatto gli Apostoli, e li santi Padri” — appunto — la fase 
iniziale della evangelizzazione procede alla proclamazione dei dogmi essenziali 
del Cristianesimo, “lassando da parte le sottigliezze, et le questioni inutili”:? 
sulle prime bastera trasportare nel linguaggio degli indigeni una ridotta 
bibliografia essenziale, costituita da “un libretto de’ sacramenti, la Bibbia sacra, 
un opuscolo De primato Principis Romani ed uno De conservandis ritibus 
ecclesiae, cui andra aggiunto, popolo per popolo, la confutazione delle “eresie” 
ivi praticate, senza che perO venga menzionata — e meno che mai enfatizzata — 
la reale identita dei seguaci. Una sorta di semianonimato viene dunque riservata a 
radici, tronco e rami dell’errore, la cui deprecanda vegetazione é destinata a 
confondersi nell’ombra fitta di innumerevoli sovrapposizioni, vicine e lontane, 
antiche e recenti. Dal morbo dell’ idolatria, pero — come da quello del peccato in 
senso lato — é opportuno dissociare colui che ne é stato afflitto, perché non gli 
venga preclusa la possibilita di rinnegare il passato e guadagnare la via della 
salvezza. 

Gli strumenti necessari all’arduo lavoro del predicatore missionario — 
appare quindi assolutamente chiaro — andavano forgiati in tipografia, i cui torchi 
si facessero carico di un ben articolato progetto divulgativo. Ben consapevole 
dell’ampio spettro di fruizione ricoperto dal libro a stampa, duttile oggetto di 
propaganda presso sapienti ed illetterati* la Compagnia riservava alla fortunata 
invenzione di Gutenberg, parallelamente, il compito di restituire gli esiti della 
militanza oltreoceano, predisponendosi ad una diffusione il pit possibile vasta tra 


2 “Quando andrai in guerra contro i tuoi nemici, e il Signore, Iddio tuo, te li avra dati nelle mani, e 
avrai fatto dei prigionieri, se scorgerai tra essi una donna di bell’aspetto e t’invaghirai di lei, potrai 
prenderla per moglie e condurla in casa tua. Ma si rada la testa, si tagli le unghie, e si tolga di 
dosso gli abiti che aveva quando fu presa, dimori in casa tua e pianga suo padre e sua madre per 
un mese intero; poi potrai entrare da lei come marito ed essa sara tua moglie” (Deuter. 21, 10-14). 
In proposito si veda Palumbo 207-38, e soprattutto 214-16. 

Relatione delle sette dell’ heresie. Si tratta di un testo manoscritto, che illustra il programma della 

Congregazione di Propaganda Fide, in pieno XVII secolo, per l’impegno nella lotta alle false 
dottrine. Questa, e le citazioni che seguono, sono tratte dalle cc. 215 v -218 r — sezione intitolata 
De libri — del codice miscellaneo segnato S. Martino-aggiunti 57 della Biblioteca Nazionale di 
Napoli. 
4 Sulla produzione, da parte dei gesuiti, di catechismi illustrati — in cui la pregnanza visiva 
dell’immagine sostituisce quasi del tutto la parola scritta, arricchendo per altro il messaggio di 
complesse allusioni simboliche — e, pili in generale, sulla gestione propagandistico-apologetica 
della stampa in seno alla Compagnia, si rimanda a La “Ratio studiorum” . 


72 Paola Zito 


i devoti lettori d’Occidente. Si profila cosi, mediante la circolazione “‘simmetrica” 
di due specie di libri di grossa tiratura, la messa a punto di una vigorosa 
Operazione speculare, che vede due civilta e due culture a confronto attraverso un 
abile filtro apologetico, dove ogni dato ed ogni avvenimento trova |’inserimento 
suo proprio in una economia concettuale rigorosamente aprioristica. Se il 
Catechismo romano viene approntato in pit versioni, magari arricchite 
dall’eloquenza del corredo iconografico, per nutrire la fantasia e soddisfare la 
curiosita dei “selvaggi”, del Nuovo Mondo 1|’Europa riceve efficaci e dettagliati 
resoconti, mai disgiunti dalle cronache di episodi agiografici di macroscopica 
pregnanza. Racconti sempre diversi e sempre uguali recano le Carte che i padri 
dalle Americhe inviano alle rispettive case professe: prima della pubblicazione, 
relazioni e testimonianze epistolari vengono opportunamente “ritoccate” per 
adeguarsi perfettamente a quel paradigma normativo che il caso singolo ha la sola 
autonomia di contribuire a suffragare.° 

Nel 1726 a Madrid, per i tipi di Manuel Fernandez, viene stampata I’ opera 
del gesuita Juan Patricio Fernandez che, tre anni dopo, verra riproposta in lingua 
italiana nella traduzione di un altro membro dell’Ordine, Giovan Battista 
Memmi,° per poi conoscere, in capo a un decennio, una nuova edizione latina 
(De Backer). Siamo di fronte ad un prodotto maturo, il cui assetto sembra 
condensare in un unico archetipico esempio la molteplicita delle caratteristiche 
distintive di tanta letteratura apparsa negli oltre centocinquant’anni precedenti. 
Uno sguardo al Sommario ci consente di enucleare tre filoni narrativi che si 
intersecano e si sovrappongono nel corso della trattazione, a sintetizzare in una 
sola opera la pit ampia tipologia di scritti in proposito: al motivo della mera 
autocelebrazione — imperniato sull’esemplare crescendo vita-eroiche virtu- 
martirio, impavidamente affrontato per la causa della fede — si affianca quello 
dell’oscillazione comportamentale delle masse indigene, in bilico tra 
entusiastiche conversioni collettive, accompagnate da eloquenti prodigi divini, e 
proditorie manifestazioni di ostilita e di cieca violenza, subito stigmatizzate dalla 
collera celeste attraverso catastrofi naturali e morti improvvise. Non proprio 
accanto, ma piuttosto sullo sfondo delle due linee principali si colloca la serie di 
impressioni sulle particolarita di luoghi e costumi, quasi a costituire una griglia 
di topoi esotici, fonte di maraviglia per gli occidentali, in margine al vibrante 
messaggio di edificazione. Si tratta di Leitmotive puntualmente rintracciabili 
nella produzione editoriale europea dell’intero secolo XVII, la cui mappa 
geografica e cronologica appare senza dubbio ardua da definire. La pur cospicua 
rappresentanza francese non inficia minimamente |’assoluto primato della 


5 Chinard 122-50. L’autore analizzava qui pit da vicino gli estratti di tali missive destinate ad 
apparire sul “Mercure de France”. 

Il testo compare In Roma, Per Antonio de’ Rossi, nella Strada del Seminario Romano. Dedicato 
al Preposito generale della Compagnia, Michelangelo Tamburini, il volume reca sul frontespizio la 
xilografia effigiante il monogramma IHS. 


Il nuovo mondo e la vera fede. L’ evangelizzazione delle Americhe 73 


Spagna,’ che conta, tra gli autori di “cronache dal Nuovo Mondo” appartenenti 
all’Ordine ignaziano, non meno di un centinaio di nomi. Di poco superiore a 
quella dei Paesi Bassi e dell’Impero germanico la consistenza del contributo 
italiano, che amplifica le sue potenzialita di diffusione mediante la traduzione di 
testi principalmente spagnoli. Contributo che proveremo ad analizzare un po’ pit 
da vicino, attraverso una sia pur ristretta campionatura di testimonianze. 
Solitamente volgarizzate, ma non di rado in latino, quanto mai varie per formato 
e pregio editoriale, le opere impresse sul territorio della penisola si configurano 
in molti casi come semplici cronache; con taglio talvolta biografico talvolta 
diaristico, senza apparenti pretese né stilistiche, né ermeneutiche: delle Relationi, 
appunto,® piuttosto esaustive che sintetiche, scrupolose nel dettaglio piuttosto 
che ricercate nella forma. Se, al riguardo, fa fede l’orientamento del Padre 
Bressani, non ci sara difficile desumere il senso della scelta linguistica di volta in 
volta operata: “Quanto é stato ed é il desiderio di molti pieni di zelo, e di Santa 
curiosita, di saper i progressi della Fede in questi nuovi paesi. E per compiacerli 
é un pezzo, che si é cominciato a pensare — si legge nel Proemio — di farne 
ur historia latina assai esatta. Ma come quest’opera richiede ancora molto tempo, 
e le giuste istanze di tanti meritano qualche sodisfazione, mi sono lasciato 
indurre, senza pregiuditio dell’ historia, che se ne scrivera pit universale, ¢ piu a 
longo di fare qui uno sbozzo, o pili tosto di darne un saggio con la semplicita, e 
brevita la pitt grande, che potro. . . .”? In latino, dunque, |’ opera pili impegnativa 
e universale, in italiano lo sbozzo, semplice e conciso. 

Trova cosi ampia giustificazione l’adozione del latino per il testo 
monumentale dell’Alegambe (Mortes illustres et gesta), un in folio di ben 716 
pagine, articolato in tre estese partizioni.!° Come I’ufficialita della pubblicazione 
richiede, l’autore costruisce il messaggio mediante una prolungata iterazione, che 
icasticamente contrappone |’haeretici impietas alla soavita della conversio, il 
coraggio e l’abnegazione dei padri all’abiezione del tradimento di ovvia 
ispirazione diabolica, per concludere con la sacrosanta quanto puntuale vendetta 
meritata dalla gravissima iniuria Det. 

“Chiedete, Signora, al frutto benedetto del ventre vostro, lume per 1’Infedeli, 
docilita per l’Ebrei, fede per l’Eretici, ubbidienza per li scismatici, penitenza per 
li peccatori . . .”: l’invocazione figura in una delle Orationi composte da San 
Francesco Saverio, “l’ Apostolo delle Indie” (quelle Orientali, in questo caso), e 
riprodotte nell’accurata biografia che lo spagnolo Francisco Garcia redige — e 
Ambrogio Ortiz traduce — del gesuita Diego Luigi de Sanvitores (Istorie della 
conversione 569). Prima che la vera e propria trattazione — in cinque libri — 
abbia inizio, si rinviene una tavola a firma del Pesche, uno dei pit abili e famosi 


7 Si veda al riguardo Alegre, e la ricca bibliografia ivi segnalata. 
E questo il titolo pid diffuso tra le opere analizzate, spesso accompagnate dall’aggettivo breve. 
Breve relatione 1. Cfr. anche Michel, Répertoire 1: 213. 
9 1) volume presenta una dedica: Eminentissimo Principi loanni de Lugo Soc. lesu. 


74 Paola Zito 


incisori napoletani dell’epoca,!' che ritrae il ““venerabile” padre nel momento 
cruciale in cui affronta — in mano il Crocifisso, volto impenetrabile e sguardo 
lontano — l’agguato dei suoi assassini: sullo sfondo di un cielo annuvolato, il 
“martire” viene trafitto da un selvaggio goffo e curioso, mentre un altro, con 
occhi torvi e armato di spada, lo afferra per il mantello all’altezza della spalla, 
con evidente intenzione di colpirlo ancora. Un’immagine “forte”, destinata a 
sintetizzare, con drammatica efficacia, un evento-simbolo, e ad imprimerlo 
energicamente nella memoria dei lettori. 

L’esempio di Francesco Saverio diviene cosi archetipo non soltanto sul 
piano della “militanza” missionaria, ma anche su quello dell’impostazione 
narrativa: dal “‘nascimento” alle “prove di molta carita” ai “vari esercizi di virtt” 
alla navigazione verso le Indie, al successo della sua predicazione, alla “gloriosa 
morte” suggellata dalla totale assenza di decomposizione per il corpo mortale;!? 
segue la registrazione dei numerosi miracoli, operati in vita e post mortem.'3 
Ciascuna relatione fa quindi necessariamente i conti con l’impaginazione di un 
simile speculum. Ogni gesuita che salpa per lontane terre inospitali rinnova i 
fasti e moltiplica il prestigio dell’Ordine. Al testo scritto — e stampato — 
l’onere di raccontarne la storia nell’ unica forma veramente adeguata, resa sempre 
pit convincente ed autorevole dalle tante ripetizioni, dalle infinite variazioni sul 
tema di un solo schema consueto e rassicurante per il popolo dei fedeli. 

Al di 1a della celebrazione della singola individualita, pur enfatizzata con 
ogni cura, é il “santo zelo” della Compagnia tutta ad essere costantemente posto 
in rilievo,!4 sempre protesa verso “gloriose imprese”, al fine di “piantare tra 
l’infedeli l’evangelio A spese del sudore, e sangue delli suoi figli”.!> “Santo zelo” 
che si concretizza in un metodo abile nel ricorrere alle leve della fantasia e alle 
risorse dell’induzione. “‘Faceva scalino dalle cose terrene per salire alle celesti, e 
dalle creatura per far conoscere il Creatore” — scrive il Garcia del padre 
Sanvitores (/storia della conversione 23), e aggiunge ulteriori particolari 
decisamente significativi: “Mettevasi pendenti al collo due imagini, l’una del 
Santo Crocifisso di Burgos . . . l’altra della Vergine con in braccio il Bambino. 
Dava principio interrogando i Mariani, per quale ragione l’huomo é di statura 
dritta, et ha gli occhi, che mirano verso il Cielo; e li bruti nd? . . . Passava poi a 


11 Aj riguardo cfr. Omodeo, Grafica napoletana del ’600. 
12 Questa, esemplificativamente, la falsariga proposta dal padre Giuseppe Massei (1626-1698), 
nella sua Vita di S. Francesco Saverio, in tre libri, dedicata al cardinale Fabrizio Spada. L’opera 
viene ristampata sempre a Roma, presso la stessa officina l’anno dopo, e poi ancora a Bologna nel 
1684 e a Venezia nel 92. 

3 Significativo il breve scritto del Mastrilli. 
14 Si veda: Relatione Della gloriosa morte Delli Padri Roccho Gonzales, Alonzo Rodriguez, etc. 
(Cfr. Le secentine napoletane 134n785), p. 5. L’espressione & adoperata nella dedica 
All’ illustrissimo Signore D. Lorenzo di Cardenas e Balda. Conte della Puebla, Marchese de 
Baccharesi. 


5 Relatione della gloriosa morte 7. Si vedano anche Bueras; Viva; al riguardo Burrus. 














Il nuovo mondo e la vera fede. L’ evangelizzazione delle Americhe 75 


spiegare il mistero della nostra Redenzione, e della Passione e morte di Giesu 
Christo . . .” (193-194). Dalla constatazione dell’ovvio, l’immaginazione degli 
indigeni viene appena inoltrata negli impervi sentieri dell’astratto, sempre 
tradotto — per quanto possibile — in rappresentazione da attuarsi senza posa nel 
teatro della coscienza. La lezione di Sant’Ignazio viene felicemente adattata alle 
non contemplate né facili circostanze. 

La religione dei “selvaggi”, inoltre, agli occhi dell’esperto gesuita, offre non 
pochi utili spunti da convogliare, mediante opportune e sapienti rettifiche, verso 
la Nuova Fede: conversione, dunque, non come traumatico ribaltamento di 
parametri di valore, ma come correzione ed intensificazione di una luce, prima 
fatta di scarse ed intermittenti scintille. “I nostri barbari . . . sono lontanissimi 
da’ sentimenti de’ nostri libertini, e dall’ Atheismo. Primo credono |’immortalita 
dell’anime. . . . Secondo, credono i Spiriti buoni, e cattivi. . . . Terzo 
apostrofano spesso il Cielo, e il Sole .. .” (Breve Relatione d'alcune missioni . 
. . del P. Francesco Gioseppe Bressani 19): @ la stessa natura a suggerire 
intuitivamente i primi rudimenti della trascendenza, a lungo velati da incongrue 
superstizioni, che vengono ora disvelati, grazie al santo intervento di quanti 
“renuntiano alle commodita d’Europa . . .” (Relatione del P. Diego de Torres 
della Compagnia di Giesu 57-58), facendosi per di pit carico dell’arduo 
apprendistato linguistico, al fine di accrescere le possibilita di comunicazione con 
i nuovi interlocutori.!© 

Allora, se la religiosita “naturale” costituisce un sostrato favorevole alla 
penetrazione del culto cristiano, controparte accanita del missionario é, in realta, 
soltanto il diavolo, sempre e dovunque fautore del peccato e tutore della 
menzogna. “. . . il Demonio — racconta il padre Torres — fece ogni sforzo per 
non esser cacciato dalla possessione di quell’anime . . .” (Breve relatione 25); ed 
é ancora il principe delle tenebre a comandare “che si bruciasse la Croce” (44-46), 
croce che resistera al fuoco e all’accetta, rivelando cosi inequivocabilmente il 
proprio carattere miracoloso. Secondo il Crespo, “non perdea il demonio 
occasione di provocare |’Indiani contro li nostri . . .” (Relatione della gloriosa 
morte 10), servendosi di un tramite privilegiato, lo stregone o “fattucchiaro”, 
losca figura di sobillatore, infido esecutore di trame sinistre. Esperto in riti 
satanici, egli non cessa di sacrificare al suo infernale padrone, nella speranza di 
riceverne aiuto e protezione nella disperata impresa di ricacciare in mare l’esercito 
degli inopportuni crociati. Nella versione offerta dalla quasi totalita delle 
Relationi, é il suo subdolo consiglio a ispirare stragi, agguati e saccheggi, che 
molto spesso suscitano orrore — o almeno sincero pentimento — nelle stesse 
popolazioni indigene. Si tratta — ci sembra di poter dedurre — di un antagonista 


16 Significativo — e non certo isolato — il caso del padre Ludovico Bertonio (1555-1628), autore 
di ben due tratiati, uno breve ed introduttivo (Arte breve de la lengua ayamana), |’altro pit: ampio 
ed analitico (Arte y gramatica muy copiosa de la lengua aymara, principalmente destinati all’uso 
dei confratelli. 


16 Paola Zito 


difficile da soppiantare, che ancora gode di un inveterato prestigio, e che non 
rinuncia ad esercitare il suo ascendente sui membri della comunita, ora soggetti 
alle pressioni della nuova direzione spirituale. Nessuna meraviglia che su di lui 
si addensino le tinte fosche di una condanna senza possibilita di attenuazione. 

In qualche modo sullo sfondo — dicevamo — ma non per questo meno 
pregne di implicazioni ideologiche di primaria importanza le descrizioni del 
contesto geografico che introducono alla vicenda, delineando, magari in pochi 
tratti, la spazialitaé prospettica dello scenario. “Il Regno del Pert si stende per 
mare da Cartagena a Chile, spatio di millecinquecento leghe di tre miglia l’una . 
..” (Breve Relatione del P. Diego de Torres 3): un incipit solenne, abile 
nell’attribuire ai soli dati oggettivi l’onere di costituire — in ossequio, per altro, 
all’autorevole insegnamento del celebre Daniello Bartoli — |’impalcatura di una 
“oeografia trasportata al morale”.!7 

Il motivo, ricorrente pressoché in tutti i testi qui analizzati, si arricchisce di 
ulteriori significative valenze nelle pagine del Torres e, ancor piu, in quelle del 
Bressani, dove a chiare lettere si proclama la bonta dell’indole di quelle genti e la 
scrupolosa interiorizzazione dei precetti cristiani di cui si sono dimostrate capaci. 
Ai lettori occidentali di quelle pie cronache viene fatta balenare un’immagine di 
“selvaggi” docili e di nobile sentire, decisamente differenti dai barbari feroci ed 
infidi cui erano per lo pit abituati. Nessuna esplicita contraddizione — é chiaro 
— ma piuttosto l’indizio di una diversita, per giunta facilmente spiegabile data 
l’immensa estensione di quei territori; e maggior merito, naturalmente, ai padri 
di quella “residentia”, per l’eccellenza dei risultati. 

Ma il Bressanti, forse, va ancora un po’ oltre (Breve relatione d’alcune 
missioni . . . del P. Francesco Gioseppe Bressani 7-11): “Pingonsi in diverse 
maniere, et in varie occasioni la faccia, e molti il corpo tutto . . . e si pingono si 
bene, che alcuni a prima han creduto esser veramente vestiti alcuni Barbari, che 
perfettamente nudi, altra veste non havevano, che di puro colore”. Una notazione 
di costume, dal sapore — azzarderemmo — squisitamente laico, che si sofferma 
sulla pura apparenza corporea, e sul compiacimento per |’effetto cromatico, cui 
segue qualche ulteriore apprezzamento sui balli, sui matrimoni, e su altri aspetti 
della vita di relazione. Dal piano per cosi dire estetico-antropologico, il discorso 
evolve poi verso l’ambito fisico-genetico: “. . . son forti, alti di statura, e 
proporzionati, pit. sani di noi, non sapendo né anche il nome di quantita di 


malattie comuni in Europa. . . . Non si vedono né gobbi, né nani, né molto 
corpulenti, né di grossa gola . . . son certo degni d’ammiratione particolarmente . 
. . he’ sensi, quali hanno perfettissimi. . . .” Sorprendentemente, il consueto 


“parallelo” tra le due civilta si volge a netto sfavore degli occidentali, fiaccati da 
una miriade di tare, causate tutte da un’ unica mai nominata matrice, la decadenza. 
I sensi appannati, il proliferare delle malattie, la diffusione delle malformazioni 
risaltano con singolare evidenza al confronto con il vigore e la perfetta salute di 


17 th proposito cfr. Raimondi; Varese 772 e sgg. 





Il nuovo mondo e la vera fede. L’ evangelizzazione delle Americhe 77 


questi “barbari”, ingenuamente orgogliosi delle loro nudita e amabilmente 
“affabili tra di loro”. Il sogno utopico di una natura incorrotta si profila 
all’orizzonte della decrepita Europa attraverso un veicolo al di sopra di ogni 
sospetto. La prospettiva speculare sapientemente allestita dalla Compagnia di 
Gest — e dalla sua biblioteca di Relationi — si rivelera nel tempo ancor pil 
efficace di quanto le pil rosee previsioni inducessero a ritenere: se i “selvaggi” 
d’America vengono gradualmente condotti sotto l’égida della Fede romana alla 
pari dei “cristianissimi” regni lambiti dal Mediterraneo, le menti illuminate del 
vecchio Continente perseguono a lungo il mito di un’altra umanita, scevra dal 
peso della storia, e soprattutto da quello del dogma, sul modello di quelle sagome 
immerse nel colore, nella piena liberta della foresta. Una paradossale, insperata 
rivincita per il “fattucchiaro”, nei libri cosi accanitamente demonizzato. 


Paola Zito, Biblioteca Nazionale di Napoli 


Opere citate 


Alegambe Filippo, Mortes illustres et gesta eorum de Societate lesu Qui in odium 
fidei, pietatis aut cuiscumque virtutis, occasione Missionum, Sacramentorum 
administratorum, fidei, aut virtutis propugnatae; ab Ethnicis, Haereticis, vel 
aliis, veneno, igne, ferro aut morte alia necati aerumnisve confecti sunt. . . 
Autore Philippo Alegambe Bruxellensi ex eadem Soc. Jesu. Extremos aliquot 
annos, mortesque illustres usque ad Anno MDCLYV adiecit Ioannes Nadasi eiusdem 
Societatis Iesu. Romae, Anno MDCLVII. Ex Typographia Varesij. 716 p. in fol. 

Bertonio Ludovico, Arte breve de la lengua ayamara, para introduction del arte grande 
de la misma lengua. En Roma, L. Zanetti, 1603. 30 p. in 4°. 

, Arte y grammatica muy copiosa de la lengua aymara con muchos y varios 
modos de hablar para su mayor declaraci6n, con la tabla de los capitulos, y cosas 
que en ella se contienen. . . . Compuesta por el P. Ludovico Bertonio Romano de 
la compania de Iesus de la Provincia del Piru, de la India Occidental. En Roma, 
por Luis Zanetti, Afio de 1603. 348 p. in 4° 

Bressanti Francesco Giuseppe, Breve Relatione d’alcune missioni de’ PP. della 
Compagnia di Giesu nella Nuova Francia del P. Francesco Gioseppe Bressani 
della medesima Compagnia, All’ Eminentiss. e Reverendiss. Sig. Card. De Lugo. 
In Macerata, Per gli Heredi di Agostino Grisei, 1653.127 p. in 4° 

Bueras Giovanni, Vite di alcuni religiosi fratelli coadjutori della Compagnia di Giesu. 
In Torino, 1664. 

Crespo Francesco, Relatione della gloriosa morte Delli Padri Roccho Gonzales, 
Alonso Rodriguez, e Gio. del Castiglio della Compagnia di Giesu. Li quali per la 
predicatione del Santo Evangelio, e difesa della nostra Santa Fede Cattolica 
morirono nelle mani dell’ Indiani Infideli, della Provincia del Urai nel mese di 
Novembre 1628. Composta per il P. Francesco Crespo della Compagnia di Giesi 
Procuratore Generale dell’Indie. Stampata in Madrid per Andrea de Parra, et in 


78 Paola Zito 


Napoli, Per Lazaro Scoriggio, 1632. 25 p. in 8°. [Segue, alle pp. 26-38, Corona 
di dodici stelle della Beatissima Vergine Da recitarsi una volta il giorno.] 

Fernandez Giovanni Patrizio, Relazione istorica della nuova Cristianita degl’ Indiani 
detti Cichiti scritta in Spagnuolo dal P. Gio. Patrizio Fernandez, e tradotta in 
italiano da Gio. Battista Memmi ambedue della Compagnia di Gesu. 
Coll’aggiunta d’un Indice delle cose pit notabili. In Roma, Per Antonio de’ 
Rossi, nella strada del Seminario Romano, 1729. 233 p. in 4° 

Garcia Francesco, Istoria della conversione alla nostra santa fede dell’ Isole Mariane, 
dette prima de’ Ladroni, Nella vita, Predicatione, e morte gloriosa per Christo del 
venerabile P. Diego Luigi di Sanvitores, e d’altri suoi compagni della 
Compagnia di Giesu. Scritta nell’idioma castigliano dal P. Francesco Garzia, E 
tradotta nell’Italiano da Ambrosio Ortiz della medesima Compagnia. In Napoli, 
per Camillo Cavallo e Michele Luigi Mutij, si vende per li medesimi nella loro 
stampa a Monte Oliveto, 1686. 663 p. in 4°. 

Massei Giuseppe, Vita di S. Francesco Saverio Della Compagnia di Giesu Apostolo 
dell’Indie descritta dal P. Giuseppe Massei Della Medesima Compagnia. In 
Roma, M.DC.LXXXI. Alle spese d’Ignazio de’Lazzeri. 351 p. in 4°. 

Mastrilli Marcello Francesco, Miraculi a S. Francisco Xaverio Indiarum Apostolo in 
Collegio Neap. Soc. Jesu patrati die III. Januari anno Dom. M.DC XXXIV. 
narratio, ex archiepiscopalis curiae tabulis deprompta. Napoli, apud Lazarum 
Scorigium, 1634. 28 p. in 8°. 

Perez Giovanni, Relatione della missione fatta da Padri Gio. Perez e Gio. Battista 
Zappa della Compagnia di Giesu, nelle tre provincie di Tulanciro, Gulteper, e 
Tenancineo, e ne suoi popoli, e paesi circonvicini dall’anno 1683 fino al 1687. 
Divisa in due parti. Con l'aggiunta della relatione d'altra missione fatta da Padri, 
Gio. Battista Zappa, e Antonio Ramirez della medesima Compagnia in varie terre 
della Nuova Spagna dall'anno 1687 fino al 1688. Portata dallo Spagnuolo 
all’italiano da Sebastiano Maria Castellini. Milano, Dal Ramellati, [168.]. 79, 
87 p. in 4°. 

Torres, Diego de, Breve Relatione del P. Diego de Torres della Compagnia di Giesu. 
Procuratore della Provincia del Peru circa il frutto che si raccoglie con gli Indiani 
di quel Regno, Dove si raccontano anche alcuni particolari notabili successi gli 
anni prossimi passati. Per la consolatione, e notitia, de’ Religiosi di detta 
Compagnia in Europa. Al fine s'aggiunge la lettera annua dell'Isole Filippine del 
1600. In Roma, Appresso Luigi Zanetti, MDCIII. 92 p. in 8°. 

(Contiene: Lettera Delli Padri Gio. Romero, e Gasparo di Monroy di Tucuman, 
pp. 22-30; Lettera del Padre Andrea Ortiz di Santa Croce della Serra, pp. 30-31; 
Lettera Del Padre Diego Samaniego di santa Croce della Serra, pp. 31-38; Lettera 
del Padre Diego Vazquez dalla residentia di Iulij al Padre Provinciale, pp. 38-42; 
Lettera annua Dell'Isole Filippine, scritta dal Padre Francesco Vaez . . . Al Molto 
Reverendo Padre Claudio Acquaviva Generale della Compagnia di Giesi, pp. 61- 
92). 

(Legato con: Relatione delle missioni, e cristianita che appartengono alla 
Provincia di Malavar della Compagnia di Giesu. Scritta Dal P. Francesco Barretto 
dell’istessa Compag. Procuratore di quella Provincia. Ix Roma, Appresso 
Francesco Cavalli, 1645. 132 p.) 

Altre edd.: Milano 1603; Venezia 1604. 








Il nuovo mondo e la vera fede. L’ evangelizzazione delle Americhe 79 


Viva Francesco, Cartas Histérico-Apologéticas de las Misiones del Maronion, 
escritas a Napoles. Impresas en Napoles, en su original Toscano, [ts. t.] 1683, in 
AC: 


* ee 


Alegre F. J., Historia de la Provincia de la Compafia de Jesus de Nueva Espana. Nueva 
edicién por E. J. Burrus y F. Zubillaga, tt. I-IV, Roma, Institutum Historicum, 
1956-60. 

Burtus, E. J., Pioneer Jesuit Apostles among the Indian of New Spain (1572-1604), 
“Archivium Historicum Societatis Jesu” 25 (1956), 574-97. 

Chinard G., L’Amérique et le réve exotique dans la littérature francaise au XVIle et au 
XVIIle siécle, Paris, Hachette et C. ie, 1913. 

De Backer, A. e A., Bibliothéque de la Compagnie de Jésus. Nouvelle édition par C. 
Sommervogel, tt. I-X, Bruxelles, Schepens-Picard, 1890-1909. 

Michel, S. e P.H., Répertoire des ouvrages imprimés en langue italienne au XVIle 
siécle conservés dans les bibliothéques de France, Paris, C.n.r.S., 1972-84. 
Omodeo A., Grafica napoletana del '600. Fabbricatori di immagini. Saggio sugli 
incisori, illustratori, stampatori e librai della Napoli del Seicento, Napoli, 

Regina, 1981. 

Palumbo G., Speculum Peccatorum. Frammenti di storia nello specchio delle 
immagini tra Cinque e Seicento, Napoli, Liguori, 1990. 

Prosperi A., America e Apocalisse. Note sulla “conquista spirituale” del Nuovo 
Mondo, “Critica storica” 13 (1976), 1-61. 

Raimondi E., Scienziati e viaggiatori, in Storia della letteratura italiana, ac. di E. 
Cecchi e N. Sapegno, // Seicento, Milano, Garzanti, 19882, pp. 233-334. 

La “Ratio studiorum”. Modelli culturali e pratiche educative dei Gesuiti in Italia tra 
Cinque e Seicento, a cura di G. P. Brizzi, Roma, Bulzoni, 1981. 

Le secentine napoletane della biblioteca nazionale di Napoli, ac. di M. Santoro, 
Roma, Istituto Poligrafico e Zecca dello Stato, 1986. 

Spence, J. D., Jl palazzo della memoria di Matteo Ricci, trad. it., Milano, Mondadori, 
1987. 

Varese C., Teatro, prosa, poesia, in Storia della letteratura italiana, ac. di E. Cecchi e 
N. Sapegno, JI Seicento, Milano, Garzanti, 19882, pp. 549-994. 


Lucia Binotti 


Liburnio e Ramusio 
lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 


L’incontro col Nuovo Mondo non fu un’esperienza diretta e personale per 
"italiano del Cinquecento. Fu invece mediato in gran parte dalla lettura e 
dall’interpretazione dei testi spagnoli sulla scoperta e conquista. Infatti, a partire 
dagli anni venti del secolo sedicesimo, assimilate ormai da tempo quelle prime 
ammirate notizie che avevano portato un mondo tuttora ignorato alla conoscenza 
dell’Europa, agli italiani venne riproposta, in traduzione, la letteratura 
divulgativa sull’America in origine rivolta specificamente a un pubblico 
spagnolo: i resoconti dei conquistadores, le storie ufficiali della conquista e dei 
primi intenti di colonizzazione, e, pil tardi, i documenti ad uso strettamente 
interno del dibattito sull’asservimento degli indios.! Se in Italia l’ampio e vario 
panorama editoriale di traduzioni concernenti il Nuovo Mondo testimonia la 
grande fortuna che il tema dell’America ebbe per tutto il Cinquecento, questo 
fenomeno culturale deve anche vedersi come il risultato di un’accurata operazione 
di ri-scrittura e ri-contestualizzazione delle crénicas, operazione questa portata a 
termine da traduttori, prefatori ed editori per il nuovo pubblico italiano.” Importa 
tuttavia Osservare che questa operazione di ri-codifica o ri-contestualizzazione dei 
discorsi spagnoli di conquista raramente implicava l’emendamento del contenuto 
del testo originale; spesso anzi i traduttori mantenevano il testo italiano il pit 
possibile fedele all’esemplare spagnolo, a scapito di uno stile pili eloquente, e di 
questa fedelta ne facevano un vanto.? Ma nelle prefazioni, nelle dediche e nelle 
note editoriali che corredavano la versione italiana i traduttori godevano della 
liberta di presentare l’originale a loro piacimento. Ed era qui dunque, nei 
preliminari al testo, dove, con l’istituzione di un dialogo con il nuovo lettore, la 


1 Superfluo a dirsi, la storia di ognuna di queste traduzioni, alcune delle quali durante tutto il 
Cinquecento e la prima parte del Seicento si ristampano a ritmo spedito, sta a sé, composita di 
vicende testuali, frutto di uno specifico programma editoriale, distinta da una diversa ricezione; e a 
sua volta ognuna di queste storie singole incide sulla storia totale della diffusione dei libri a stampa 
fe delle idee scientifiche, religiose e politiche) in Italia. 

L’elenco bibliografico completo delle traduzioni italiane di tema americano, fino al 1800, é@ 
fornito dal catalogo European-Americana; un elenco parziale (solo per il Cinquecento e solo testi 
spagnoli) ma ragionato delle traduzioni stampate a Venezia (ma include anche edizioni romane) si 
trova in Ferro. 

Vero @ che non occorte operare sul corpo centrale di un testo per cambiarne il messaggio 
integrale, poiché la manipolazione puo verificarsi non tanto al livello del contenuto quanto a quello 
del senso, né ha bisogno di articolarsi esplicitamente, poiché talvolta emerge inconsapevolmente. 


Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle cr6nicas delle conquiste spagnole 81 


lettura “‘guidata” dell’ originale si presentava cosciente e articolata. Nei prologhi i 
traduttori italiani dei resoconti di conquista re-interpretavano il messaggio della 
crénica, motivando nel loro lettore riflessioni sulla conquista che si basavano 
sulle riflessioni originali degli autori spagnoli tradotti, ma nel contempo se ne 
distanziavano. E questa pratica di lettura e ri-scrittura a noi oggi suggerisce che 
due sovrapposti livelli di discorso ideologico, e due sovrapposti livelli di 
strategie testuali, dovettero coesistere e quindi si mischiarono nel pensiero 
italiano sull’ America. 

Le ri-letture delle crdénicas condotte nei prologhi italiani distinguevano 
dunque le traduzioni dagli originali e le rendevano partecipi di un discorso diverso 
che si sovrapponeva e si confondeva con il primo. Testualmente é@ possibile 
riconoscere il discorso “corretto” negli intenti del traduttore di istituire un 
rapporto, o dialogo, col proprio lettore.* Si vedra che questo dialogo si basava 
soprattutto sulla presunta esistenza di un’unita — che non é possibile classificare 
se etnica, politica o culturale — che accomunava quel particolare gruppo di 
lettori sotto la rubrica di italiani. In effetti resta da precisare che cosa esattamente 
i traduttori presupponessero nel rivolgersi al lettore italiano, data la complicata 
strada che lo sviluppo dei concetti di comunita e identita segui precisamente nel 
Cinquecento.> 

Si pud dire allora che prologhi e note editoriali operavano una 
manipolazione ideologica ai margini del testo delle crdnicas che si risolveva in 
una lettura “circostanziata” del loro discorso totalizzante 0 dogmatico.® Questa 
lettura “dissidente” inevitabilmente metteva allo scoperto le fratture e i vuoti del 
discorso assolutistico del potere spagnolo, e nel contempo coltivava nel pubblico 
il senso di appartenenza a una comunita che, unita idealmente dalla stessa base 
culturale, poteva prendere un atteggiamento critico collettivo di fronte all’operato 


4 Utilizzo qui “dialogo” nel suo significato strettamente linguistico di “interazione comunicativa tra 
due pronomi ‘io’ e ‘tu’ che circolano alternativamente tra i due poli del discorso”. Tengo conto 
delle differenze che il dialogo testuale presenta rispetto al dialogo orale e quotidiano, soprattutto 
per cid che conceme l’uso di determinate strategie narrative. Nel caso delle prefazioni italiane 
alle crdnicas il dialogo si stabilisce tra un ‘io’, il traduttore, e un ‘tu’ (a volte plurale ‘voi’), il 
lettore, e tiene sempre conto di un ‘egli’ (plurale ‘loro’), gli spagnoli. 

5 Asor Rosa definisce il sentimento di italianita nel Cinquecento in termini di “una tradizione 
culturale e intellettuale del tutto mentale” (94); lo studio di Sapegno offre la sintesi pit lucida che 
conosca sulla problematica della formazione dell’Italia e dell’italiano nel Rinascimento. Sul 
concetto di ‘nazionalismo’ e ‘identita nazionale’ @ molto suggestiva la nozione di ‘comunita 
immaginarie’ (“imagined communities”) sviluppata da Anderson; infatti, nel sedicesimo secolo 
niente vi era di pit lontano dalla realta che l’esistenza di uno ‘stato italiano’, e tuttavia niente era 
em ratificante, nella vita socio-culturale della penisola, che il dichiararsi ‘italiano’. 

Utilizzo dogmatico nel senso datogli da Michel de Certeau di discorso “totalizzante” e 
“apologetico” del potere prestabilito: “During this period [secolo XVI] violent therapeutics are 
multiplied to combat the hemorrhages of interpretive systems and many attempts are made to 
reconstitute a new order... . Totalizing references and dogmatic discourses originating in tradition 
appear as mere particulars. . . .” Si veda la terminologia simile adoprata da Eagleton (33-61). 


82 Lucia Binotti 


spagnolo.’ Al suo interno perd questo discorso “dissidente” veniva mantenuto 
entro i moduli della retorica piu tradizionale, anzi si vedra che é proprio 
l’istituzione del rapporto con il destinatario “italiano” a vincolare il discorso dei 
traduttori entro i canoni classici prestabiliti per la struttura della “prefazione” o 
“proemio”.® 

Intendo qui esaminare due prefazioni italiane a resoconti spagnoli di 
conquista. La prima é quella che Niccolo Liburnio premetteva alla sua traduzione 
toscana della Carta segunda di Hernan Cortés (1524). La seconda é il Discorso 
sulle Indie di Giovan Battista Ramusio, con cui egli apriva la sezione dedicata 
alla conquista spagnola del Nuovo Mondo, sezione che occupava per intero il 
terzo volume delle Navigazioni e viaggi (1556). Ambedue i testi mostrano 
chiaramente il processo di distanziamento dalla crénica spagnola operato dal 
traduttore, e rivelano un secondo livello, aggiunto, del discorso ideologico. II 
primo livello, il discorso ideologico-dogmatico della crénica di conquista 
spagnola, é stato, ed é ancora oggi, oggetto di approfonditi studi (Loesberg; 
Pastor 75-170; Brading 7-59; Adorno). In questa sede mi limito soltanto 
all’analisi delle prefazioni, mentre altrove (Los prélogos) ho proposto un 
raffronio tra le strategie discorsive dogmatiche caratteristiche del primo livello, la 
cronica spagnola e le loro versioni dissidenti nella traduzioni italiane. 

Ad un primo esame le due prefazioni mostrano profonde differenze; 
innanzitutto venticinque anni carichi di eventi estremamente significativi per 
I’Italia, dal sacco di Roma al Concilio di Trento, separano la loro composizione 
e inevitabilmente il loro atteggiarsi di fronte all’operato spagnolo. Inoltre la 
differenza del materiale a disposizione dei due traduttori é significativa: la 
prefazione di Liburnio é scritta, presubimilmente in fretta, per accompagnare un 
testo, la lettera di Cortés, richiesto per l’attualita giornalistica, inedita, 
dell’informazione che contiene; la prefazione di Ramusio invece é un semplice 
tassello all’interno di un programma editoriale complesso e a lungo meditato; 


7 Modi e strutture della retorica testuale cambiavano a seconda della posizione che il traduttore o 
l’editore del testo si trovava, consciamente o inconsciamente, ad abbracciare all’interno del 
dibattito in corso sulla legittimita del potere spagnolo, oltremare e a casa. Questo dibattito era 
complesso e presentava una miriade di sfaccettature che toccavano non soltanto I’ aspetto politico, 
ma anche le piu varie questioni di carattere religioso, morale ed etico. Inoltre con l’avanzare del 
secolo si andO colorando di altri toni a riflesso del graduale evolversi delle questioni e del 
mutamento di mentalita, e di pari passo, indipendentemente dalle intenzioni politiche degli autori, le 
manipolazioni sui testi riflettevano e registravano anche le permutazioni dei codici socio-culturali. 
Non sta a me, e€ soprattuto in questa sede, cercare di affrontare la complessa problematica che la 
potenza spagnola, egemonica si, ma cristiana, poneva agli intellettuali della Controriforma. 
Ambrosini (53-70) ne da una panoramica molto suggestiva, anche se limitata soltanto all’area 
veneziana. 

8 Ho scelto di utilizzare qui “prefazione” come termine il cui significato modermo coglie con 
maggior precisione la funzione introduttiva e di presentazione dei testi che esamino. Si noti perd 
che l’uso cinquecentesco italiano preferisce termini pid classicheggianti quali “proemio”, 
“esordio” o “prologo”; si veda il Grande dizionario della lingua italiana s.v. 


Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 83 


infatti annuncia e ordina un gruppo di testi, le relaciones de conquista, composti 
in momenti diversi lungo |’arco dei trent’anni precedenti, testi che oramai non 
divulgano notizie precedentemente ignorate. Formalmente sia Liburnio che 
Ramusio restano fedeli ai precetti classici per la composizione dell’“exordium”, 
ma Liburnio in questa fedelta mostra la sua riluttanza all’innovazione, mentre 
Ramusio piega la struttura classica a strumento di un’organicita scientifica che é 
nuova in metodo é criterio.? 

Eppure, nonostante tali evidenti differenze, i testi di Liburnio e di 
Ramusio convergono in sostanza nella proposta di un’interpretazione “dissidente” 
della conquista spagnola che fa capo alla stessa tradizione storica e umanistica. 

La seconda lettera di Cortés viene pubblicata a Siviglia nel 1522. Nel 
gennaio del 1524 ne esce una traduzione in latino, di mano di Pietro Savorgnan, 
il segretario friulano del vescovo di Vienna monsignor di Revelles (Praeclara de 
nova maris Oceani Hyspania narratio, Norimberga, F. Peypus, 1524). Pochi 
mesi dopo viene stampata a Venezia la versione toscana, La preclara narratione di 
Ferdinando Cortese della Nuova Hispagna del Mare Oceano, per mano di un altro 
friulano, il grammatico Niccolo Liburnio. La traduzione @ una delle prime 
versioni in volgare di un resoconto non di viaggi ma di conquista. E accosta due 
figure, Cortés e Liburnio, che, per motivi diversi, hanno risvegliato un interesse 
polemico negli studiosi del Rinascimento.!° 

L’originale spagnolo si presentava come una lettera, indirizzata da Cortés 
all’imperatore Carlo V, in cui il conquistador narrava dei suoi primi contatti con 
gli aztechi, dell’arrivo alla citta fantastica di Tenochtitlan e dell’asservimento del 
re Montezuma (Carta de relacion embiada a su S. majestad del emperador, 
Sevilla: J. Cronberger, 1522; in Cortés 79-182). La versione italiana manteneva 
il contenuto del testo spagnolo presentando perd una serie di varianti 
significative sia al livello dell’espressione che a quello della forma. E mentre le 
varianti linguistiche erano inevitabili a causa dell’intermediario latino che separa 
i due testi, quelle formali rispondevano all’intenzione di Liburnio di modificare la 
portata ideologica della Carta (cfr. sotto nota 12). 

Che il testo venisse stampato a Venezia piuttosto che a Firenze o a Roma 
non causa sorprese. Va notato pero che la scelta del luogo non é dovuta soltanto 


9 Capitolo a parte meriterebbe poi lo studio del volgare nei due testi. La lingua di Liburnio, ancora 
stentata, sintatticamente sconnessa, sperimentale insomma, contrasta certamente con quella di 
Ramusio, elegante e sciolta (Dionisotti Liburnio; Binotti Liburnio traduttore; Milanesi XXXII- 
XXXII). In concomitanza si dovrebbero anche studiare le ragioni che portarono i due autori a 
servirsi del toscano anziché del latino o del dialetto. 

Per la bibliografia su Cortés e sulle sue lettere si vedano soprattutto Elliott (Cortés, Velazquez xi- 
XXXVii), Pagden (Translator’s Introduction xxxix-1x) e Pastor (75-170). Tra l’altro la traduzione di 
Libumio aggiunge un’altra tessera finora poco studiata al mosaico composito che é la storia della 
questione della lingua italiana prima dell’apparizione delle Prose bembiane. Al convegno “Italia 
ed Europa nella linguistica del Rinascimento” ho presentato alcune osservazioni su Liburnio come 
traduttore, linguista e letterato (Liburnio traduttore). 


84 Lucia Binotti 


alla posizione dominante di Venezia nel mercato libraio, ma risponde 
probabilmente alla richiesta precisa di un folto pubblico veneziano, municipale 
si ma ricco e avvezzo ai viaggi ed alle esperienze ultramarine. Liburnio 
premetteva alla versione in toscano della Carta un’introduzione di sua mano, 
senza titolo, che é la “‘prefazione” qui esaminata, e traduceva anche dal latino la 
dedica di Pietro Savorgnan a Clemente VII. 

Sin dalle prime righe della “prefazione” traspare la posizione prominente, di 
interlocutore partecipe, che Liburnio accorda al “suo” lettore: 


la quale [narrazione, in latino] siendo capitata a Vinegia e intesa da molti nobili e 
giudiciosi huomini la materia massalirono con preghiere assidove. Accio per lamore e 
benivolenza loro verso me, piacessemi dalla lingua latina in la volgare trallatare la 
narratione del presente libbro qual in latino fu stampato nella celebre citta di 
Norimberga. 


(liv) 


Un pubblico “d’huomini giudiciosi”, ma che non legge o non vuole leggere il 
latino, e che non chiede una traduzione in dialetto bensi in volgare italiano. 
Traspare si dalle parole del Liburnio l’immagine della Venezia rinascimentale 
magistralmente descritta da Dionisotti (Niccolé Liburnio 26), politicamente 
dialettale, ma impegnata seriamente nella caratterizzazione di una lingua e di una 
letteratura italiane e nazionali. Nel contempo attraverso queste righe vediamo 
Liburnio impegnato a delineare la figura di un lettore che va oltre le frontiere 
della laguna, italiano pit che veneziano, nazionale pit che regionale. 

Nel suo prologo Liburnio si rifa fedelmente agli stilemi classici che 
prescrivevano la struttura del proemio (exordium).'! Vi ritroviamo infatti, 
nell’ordine prestabilito, una Jaudatio rerum (Rhet. Her. 1 1.1), sull’importanza 
della geografia, seguita da una menzione agli illustri predecessori di si onorata 
scienza (Rhet. Her. 1 1.1), i geografi antichi che con fatica improba (e quindi 
ineguagliabile) hanno scritto di mari e terre incognite: 


Per la qual cosa ne passati e piu felici secoli scrittori infiniti cosi greci come latini 
hebbero cura e diligenza grandissima a darci notitia non solamente delle diverse 
regioni e mutationi di tempi, ma etiandio con le diurne loro e notturne fatiche 
sudarono, certo non senza nome d’immortalita a dimostrare del mondo le provincie. 


(iir) 


Continua poi con l’enumerazione delle ragioni che lo hanno guidato nella scelta 
della materia, cioé la novita delle scoperte e l’impossibilita che gli scrittori 


11 Janson (65-68) osserva che nel mondo greco-latino i proemi seguivano regole diverse a 
seconda che fossero premessi a opere di retorica o di storia. Il proemio di opere storiche, per 
esempio, non veniva mai dedicato. Dalle mie letture di crdénicas e delle loro traduzioni sembra che 
questa distinzione sia diventata piuttosto vaga nei testi di carattere pid’ divulgativo del primo 
Cinquecento. 


Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 85 


classici possano risuscitare per descrivere con l’acconcia eloquenza le terre 
ritrovate — tra i temi tradizionali vi erano infatti la novita e le lacune delle opere 
precedenti (De orat. I 6.23): 


. . . per prudenza e valore di un certo magnanimo capitano maritimo e terrestre . 
chiamato Ferdinando Cortese nelle ultime regioni del mare Oceano a trovato 
novellamente molte provincie e innoverabili cittadi, genti istraniere, diversi fiumi e 
montagne . . . e cose ad udire meravigliose e di memoria degne . . . se li prelibati 
Geogrephi e Cosmogrephi cioe scrittori del sito della terra e del mondo dalli sepolcri 
loro potessero risuscitare haverebbono a render gratie alla potente natura delle cose 
che alla giornata porge miracolosamente in luce e preparerebbono il stile in adornar 
co l’eloquenza loro la Nuova Hispagna del Mar Oceano pocavanti truovata. 


(iir.) 


Infine riprende il topos della pressante richiesta dell’amico o del famiglio, che lo 
ha finalmente indotto a prender la penna (anche se in questo caso la richiesta non 
viene da una persona singola, ma dal lettore veneziano, i “molti nobili e 
giudiciosi huomini” che |’“‘assalirono con preghiere assidove”), € non dimentica 
di aggiungere una menzione (anche questa canonica) alle numerose faccende, 
primo fra tutti il prezioso otium litteratum, che per portare a termine l’opera si 
vede forzato ad abbandonare (De orat. I. 1-1.3): 


Io veramente benche mattrovi nelli miei studi assidovamente occupato e in altro 
negoci secondo la picciolezza mia nondimeno per scoprirmi ritroso e spiacevole diedi 
le mani vinte alle honeste volontadi di tante honorevoli persone. .. . 


(iiv) 


In conclusione, si tratta di un prologo composto con la cura del filologo e del 
letterato, di colui che, conscio di una rinnovata tradizione, non é disposto a 
rinunciarvi. Prologo ambizioso, che nella decisione di rifarsi scrupolosamente ai 
dettami classici evidenzia una strategia retorica precisa. Di fatto la stesura di un 
proemio cosi ornato non era affatto necessaria, dato che Liburnio non era l’autore 
del testo che presentava — e infatti i preliminari che il Savorgnan premetteva 
alla versione in latino (preliminari che Liburnio rendeva in volgare e collocava 
nel testo a seguito dei suoi) tenevano solamente a giustificare le sue scelte di 
traduzione. E invece proprio nel prologo Liburnio sembra abolire, 0 quanto 
meno minimizzare, la separazione tra Cortés, autore del testo, e sé stesso 
interprete. Facendosi responsabile dello scritto di Cortés Liburnio compie un 
tentativo inequivoco di includere la Carta dello spagnolo nel genere storiografico 
dal quale essa esula. 

Infatti, secondo Liburnio, Cortés non @ uno storico ma soltanto un 
guerriero, compone il suo resoconto tra un assedio e l’altro e, per di piu, in una 
lingua, quella spagnola, che manca dell’eloquenza e del prestigio del latino. Nel 
suo prologo alla traduzione della Carta Liburnio adombra un Cortés troppo preso 


86 Lucia Binotti 


dalla conquista per poter trovar diletto nel faticoso lavoro del letterato: 


Ma mentre il sovraddetto Capitano Ferdinando Cortese sattruova allempresa delle 
predette provincie e cittadi per la mediocrita del suo comporre di tempo in tempo e 
particolarmente con lettre in lingua hispagniuola dettate avisava la Sacra Cesarea 
Maesta.... 


(iir.) 


E veramente sincero é il rammarico sull’impossibilita degli scrittori antichi di 
tornare sulla terra a raffigurare questo nuovo mondo. Senza remore dichiara che la 
cronaca di Cortés é degna di lettura unicamente in quanto si accosta all’operato 
dei geografi classici nel descrivere una parte sconosciuta del mondo; ma a 
differenza di Cortés gli autori greci e latini “sudarono di diurne e notturne fatiche” 
per descrivere le regioni del mondo, e premio al loro stile illustre fu 
l’immortalita. Di fronte a queste nuove scoperte, Liburnio conclude: 


se li prelibati Geogrephi e Cosmogrephi cioe scrittori del sito della terra e del mondo 
dalli sepolcri loro potessero risuscitare haverebbono a render gratie alla potente 
natura delle cose che alla giornata porge miracolosamente in luce e preparerebbono il 
stile in adornar co 1’eloquenza loro la Nuova Hispagna del Mar Oceano pocavanti 
truovata. 


(iir.) 


Con l’orgoglio di chi si sente l’epigono della consuetudo umanistica, Liburnio 
insiste ancora sulla superiorita dei classici, sottolineando quell’opposizione che 
identificava e univa gli italiani, che si ritenevano gli eredi del mondo greco-latino 
contro i barbari stranieri. In tal modo, apparentemente insensibile alle concrete, 
incombenti finalita del testo, Liburnio spoglia la lettera di Cortés di tutta la sua 
carica di pathos, inserendola nel canone storiografico ma vanificandone anche la 
retorica di conquista. Si tratta di un’operazione di distanziamento dall’emotivita 
del resoconto del conquistador che, iniziata nel prologo, si verifica lungo tutta la 
traduzione. Qui le laconiche puntualizzazioni di Liburnio ai margini del testo 
contribuiscono a confinare il discorso di Cortés in un territorio tra il lontano e il 
fantastico, certo pill vicino alla narrazione imparziale e letteraria di eventi passati 
che alla quotidianeita del presente. La Carta viene cosi rielaborata in consonanza 
ai criteri classici, ma nel contempo acquista una inedita sfumatura di critica del 
proprio discorso.!2 


12 La traduzione si distanzia dall’originale per mezzo di glosse, o annotazioni a margine, che 
guidano la lettura nella direzione prescelta da Libumio. I] risultato avvicina il testo al pubblico 
italiano, con l’effetto collaterale, ma non minimo, di cambiare la portata ideologica del discorso 
spagnolo. Per esempio, ogni volta che Cortés si rivolge al Re come interlocutore, Liburnio 
aggiunge una nota a lato: “II Cortese parla al Re, il Cortese si dirige alla Sacra Maesta”; oppure, 
quando Cortés descrive il sistema oligarchico degli indiani Tlascaltechi, Libumio aggiunge: “nota il 


modo del governo di Tlascaltecal”, e pit sotto: “vivono a modo di Repubblica”, dove il modello di 


Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 87 


Discorsivamente Liburnio mette a frutto la strategia della negazione;'3 da un 
lato nega a Cortés la validita storiografica della sua esperienza e alla lettera 
l’appartenenza ad un canone, dall’altro, ammonendo il suo pubblico perché non 
creda interamente alle notizie di quello sconosciuto avventuriero nega al lettore 
l’appassionarsi e il commuoversi.'* Questa negazione acquista un senso 
inequivocabilmente politico se la si raffronta al contesto storico nel quale 
Liburnio scrive: siamo nel pieno delle guerre tra Spagna e Francia, precisamente 
nel 1524, l’ultimo anno in cui gli italiani sentirono di godere ancora di una certa 
liberta d’azione nel loro ruolo di mediatori tra le due potenze in conflitto. 
Cochrane osserva che 


the capture of King Francis I at Pavia (1525) crippled one of the two remaining 
contenders for dominion of the peninsula, and it deprived Italians of the one tactic by 
which they had previously maintained some semblance of independence: that of 
playing foreign powers off against each other. The Sack of Rome (1527) delivered the 
head of one of the largest Italian states into the hands of Spanish and German 
soldiers, and it destroyed what remained of Italy’s oft vaunted pride in being the 
center of Christendom. 


(7) 


. 


repubblica & quello veneziano, un’oligarchia. Oltre a marcare un distanziamento dal testo 
spagnolo, le glosse hanno una funzione prominente perché selezionano per il lettore cid che va 
specialmente notato. Un unico esempio: il climax della lettera di Cortés viene raggiunto quando il 
conquistador descrive attonito la magnificenza del tempio principale di Tenochtitlan; si dilunga 
sulla proporzione architettonica delle stanze e sulla squisitezza dei cesellati e dei bassorilievi che 
le adomano, e sulla maestria con cui le statue degli idoli sono scolpite, per poi commentare che 
ordind a Montezuma di togliere quegli idoli dai tempi per sostituirli con immagini della Vergine. 
Solo en passant menziona il fatto che i tabernacoli degli idoli erano sporchi di sangue umano. Nella 
traduzione di Liburnio, le due uniche glosse della pagina leggono: “sacrificano uomini ai loro dei” 
e “idoli macchiati di sangue umano”. Da un serrato confronto testuale tra il testo di Cortés e le 
glosse di Liburnio penso si arriverebbe a concludere quali elementi dell’epopea americana 
attiravano maggiormente l’attenzione del lettore italiano, o perlomeno le previsioni di Liburnio su 
cid che i suoi lettori volevano sapere. 

Strategie discorsive della negazione e pid avanti, per Ramusio, della frantumazione sono mie 

etichette, che, sul modello delle strategie testuali ideologico-dogmatiche definite da Eagleton (33- 
61), rationalization, universalization, eternalization, cercano di cogliere l’aspetto critico o 
dissidente del discorso italiano; premessa necessaria é che le strategie dogmatiche sono invece, a 
mio avviso, caratteristiche del discorso spagnolo della conquista (Binotti, Los prélogos). I termini 
negazione e frantumazione trovano una certa corrispondenza nella retorica (Perelman 154-56; 
234-41). 
14 Th un rifacimento della traduzione di Liburnio Benedetto Bordone colloca il testo di Cortés 
“entro le dimensioni narrative e formali di un altro genere ben stabilito, l’isolario, compilazione di 
fonti gia pubblicate sotto un’intestazione generale (Guglielminetti 114). La lettera viene cosi 
ridotta, secondo Guglielminetti, “da una cronaca di un’impresa militare ad una sorta di diario di un 
itinerario senza tempo e senza storia, un libro antico di mostruosita”, dove |’informazione ha perso 
completamente “]’urgenza del testé accaduto” (114). Bordone va oltre la negazione della parola 
storica di Cortés; nel classificare la /ettera dentro il genere letterario ne rende il contenuto irreale, 
fittizio, “ficcional”, e la relega in uno spazio smentito, ripudiato, dalla verita. 


88 Lucia Binotti 


In questo contesto, lo strategico distanziamento dal discorso cortesiano prefigura 
l’atteggiamento critico e anti-spagnolo che sara comune in Italia, ma soprattutto 
a Venezia, dagli anni trenta del Cinquecento in poi, il periodo in cui la 
Serenissima passera a simbologgiare per molti intellettuali italiani il modello 
ideale di governo. E negli anni a venire in effetti, verso la meta del secolo, tale 
atteggiamento critico vedra una delle sue esposizioni pili articolate nei commenti 
sul Nuovo Mondo dell’intellettuale veneziano Giovan Battista Ramusio. Marica 
Milanesi, introducendo l|’opera immane di Giovan Battista Ramusio, definisce il 
processo di raccolta del materiale contenuto nelle Navigazioni e viaggi, che 
culmina con le edizioni del 1550, 1556 e 1559, “una risposta . . . all’esigenza di 
preparare i materiali per una storia dello sviluppo della conoscenza della terra . . 
.” (XXXIV). E infatti la silloge ramusiana é imponente non tanto per la mole di 
materiale che raccoglie, quanto per l’ampiezza di respiro intellettuale che la 
guida.!> Articolata all’interno di tale complesso programma la critica diretta 
contro gli spagnoli riecheggia il disprezzo per tutto cid che é “barbaro e 
straniero” che gia Liburnio esprimeva; tuttavia, non tanto la diversita del 
materiale a disposizione di Ramusio, quanto l’ampia visione d’insieme che 
traspare dal suo lavoro ci indica che tra Liburnio e Ramusio é avvenuto un 
cambio di prospettive totali, storiche, politiche e sociali. 

Nel terzo volume delle Navigazioni e viaggi Ramusio raccoglieva tutto il 
materiale a disposizione sul nuovo continente: gli scritti di Martire e Oviedo, un 
gruppo di relazioni sul Messico e le regioni confinanti, un gruppo di relazioni 
sul Pert e sul Rio delle Amazzoni e infine i viaggi francesi verso il nuovo 
mondo (Milanesi XX). A queste collezioni il Ramusio premetteva un Discorso 
sopra il terzo volume delle navigazioni e viaggi nella parte del mondo nuovo, 
che faceva parte di una serie: nel piano totale dell’opera troviamo infatti 
numerosi Discorsi (soprattutto nel primo volume, l’unico ad essere curato da 
Ramusio nella sua totalita) di solito preposti a una delle sezioni in cui Ramusio 
aveva diviso le narrazioni nei tre volumi (fanno eccezione il Discorso sul 
commercio delle spezie e il Discorso sulle piene del Nilo).'© Questi discorsi 


15 1 tre volumi delle Navigazioni e viaggi si leggono oggi nella bellissima edizione in cinque tomi 
della Milanesi. I] materiale sul nuovo mondo (terzo volume delle Navigazioni e viaggi 1556) si 
trova nei tomi quattro e cinque. Cito dall’edizione modema, e con i numeri romani indico il tomo. 

Il primo volume tratta dell’ Africa e delle terre che costeggiano 1’Oceano Indiano, compresa la 
circumnavigazione del globo della flotta di Magellano; contiene la dedica iniziale a Fracastoro 
(cfr. qui pid sotto) e sette discorsi brevi a capo di una relazione o di un gruppo di esse di tema 
comune. Inoltre contiene due discorsi pit lunghi, quello che tratta delle piene del Nilo (II 391-428) 
e il famoso Discorso sul commercio delle spezie (II 967-90). Il secondo volume raccoglie materiali 
sull’Asia continentale (dalla Persia alla Cina) e sulla Moscovia e la Scandinavia; fu pubblicato 
dopo la morte di Ramusio e i discorsi introduttivi probabilmente non sono di sua mano. I] terzo 
volume é dedicato completamente al nuovo mondo. Contiene il Discorso sul nuovo mondo (V 5-17) 
e tre altri discorsi (sulla relazione di Francisco de Ulloa (VI 509-10), sul Pera (VI 667-671) e sulla 
Terra del Labrador (VI 877-885). 





Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 89 


annunciavano il contenuto dei resoconti, ne elogiavano gli autori o i 
protagonisti, ne estraevano gli episodi pil degni di nota o ne segnalavano le 
manchevoiezze. Ognuno di essi, cioé, fungeva da prologo e riuniva sotto 
un’intestazione comune il materiale spesso frammentario che formava il 
capitolo, in tal modo proponendo una “guida alla giusta lettura” che serviva da 
intermediario tra il materiale raccolto e il nuovo pubblico. 

Cosi Ramusio struttura i vari discorsi seguendo lo schema classico 
prescritto per i proemi di un’opera formata da vari libri ( De orat. libri I, I, II). 
In tale schema il prologo iniziale conteneva la dedica e la presentazione 
dell’intero lavoro, mentre le prefazioni dei libri successivi risolvevano problemi 
di organizzazione o contenevano brevi riassunti del soggetto specifico trattato in 
quel luogo. Da questa prospettiva si pud arguire che la dedica a Fracastoro (I 3- 
6), ad apertura del primo volume delle Navigazioni, serve da proemio iniziale per 
l’opera completa.!’ Esibisce infatti a uno a uno i fopoi classici del proemio 
ciceroniano: la menzione del dedicatario, ragione e stimolo dell’ opera: 


. .. non trovo uomo a chi la [l’opera] debba pit’ convenientemente raccomandare, . . . 
salvo che l’Eccel. Vostra [Fracastoro], percioché nessuno penso che la possa meglio 
di lei giudicare, o che con maggiore affezione la desideri di leggere, 0 che col chiaro 
nome suo gli acquisti e pil credito e pit! lunga memoria. 


(3) 
il difetto delle trattazioni precedenti: 


Ma la cagione che mi fece affaticar volentieri in quest’opera fu che, vedendo e 
considerando le tavole della “Geografia” di Tolomeo, dove si descrive 1’Africa e 
l’India, esser molto imperfette rispetto alla gran cognizione che si ha oggi di quelle 
regioni. ... 


(4) 


17 Tra le accezioni date dal GDLI per il termine discorso due in particolare mi sembra descrivano 
l’uso che ne fa Ramusio: 1. “II discorrere, il parlare di qualche cosa (per lo pid con una certa 
ampiezza); svolgimento di parole dette o scritte; ... Anche: le cose che sono state dette, la materia, 
l’argomento stesso del discorso” (s.v.). 6. “Ragionamento, sermone, dissertazione intorno a un 
tema determinato . . . esposizione metodica e diffusa delle proprie opinioni, dei propri intenti” 
(s.v.). Ambedue i significati hanno illustri precedenti nel Rinascimento, quando il termine sembra 
godere di grande fortuna. Fondamentale é il fatto che discorso possa significare “la materia, 
l’argomento stesso del discorso” (n. 1). Ramusio intitola tutti i suoi ’prologhi’ discorsi, con 
l’eccezione della dedica iniziale a Fracastoro; i vari discorsi potrebbero pertanto considerarsi le 
‘sezioni in cui si tratta la materia’ di un prologo diviso in vari libri, sul modello gi_ discusso della 
retorica classica. L’accezione n. 6 invece, “dissertazione intorno a un tema determinato”, 
conforma le due prolusioni che Ramusio non intese come preliminari, ma come parti integranti 
delle Navigazioni e come suo contributo personale, da autore, alle conoscenze scientifiche 
dell’epoca, cioé il Discorso del Ramusio sul commercio delle spezie e La questione delle piene del 
Nilo dibattuta da Giovanni Battista Ramusio e Girolamo Fracastoro. 


90 Lucia Binotti 


la professione di umilta, con cui si insiste sulla difficolta dell’impresa e ci si 
scusa per la poverta dello stile: 


Nella qual opera quanto un debole e piccolo ingegno come é il mio abbia durato di 
fatica, massimamente per la diversita delle lingue nelle quali detti autori hanno 
scritto, non voglio ora dirlo, accioché non para che con parole aggrandisca le fatiche 
e vigilie mie: ma i benigni lettori, a cid pensando, spero che per sé medesimi in 
qualche parte lo conosceranno. 


(5) 


Manca pero un riassunto particolareggiato della materia generale dell’ opera, 
poiché Ramusio annuncia soltanto: “ho stimato dover esser caro e forse non 
poco utile al mondo il mettere insieme le narrazioni degli scrittori de’ nostri 
tempi che sono stati nelle sopraddette parti del mondo e di quelle hanno parlato 
minutamente . . .” (4-5), e conclude la dedica presentando la Descrizione 
dell’ Africa di Giovanni Leone, che segue. Ramusio ha dunque preferito lasciare 
che siano 1 singoli discorsi distribuiti lungo le Navigazioni a stabilire un 
rapporto pil diretto con il tema delle varie narrazioni che essi preannunciano. 

Mi sembra pertanto che il Discorso sul nuovo mondo fosse considerato da 
Ramusio, almeno formalmente, parte di un testo pil ampio e organico, una 
specie di “meta-prologo” le cui parti, distribuite lungo il corpo totale dell’ opera, 
dovevano servire da raccordo e da punto di riferimento per il lettore. Un’unica 
prefazione all’inizio delle Navigazioni avrebbe troppo presto abbandonato il 
pubblico alla sorte di una lettura farraginosa, mentre il puntuale incontro con la 
voce in prima persona del curatore scandiva questi spazi immensi e li rendeva 
meno irreali; in egual modo gli argomenti che Ramusio adduceva nei vari 
discorsi a spiegazione delle sue scelte testuali o dell’organizzazione di tale o tal 
altro resoconto nell’economia totale del lavoro venivano condivisi dal lettore, 
dandogli la possibilita di sentirsi partecipe di questo esilarante programma. 

Il Discorso di Messer Gio. Battista Ramusio sopra il terzo volume delle 
Navigazioni e Viaggi nella parte del mondo nuovo (V 5-17) inizia direttamente 
con un riferimento dialogico a Fracastoro (“eccellente signor mio” 5) che riprende 
la conversazione iniziata nella dedica come se questa continuasse ininterrotta. La 
prima parte del Discorso parafrasa un frammento del Timeo dove Platone descrive 
la leggendaria Atlantide: benché molti abbiano ritenuto che Atlantide fosse “una 
favola o un’allegoria”, commenta Ramusio, Platone, che conosceva cosi bene la 
natura, non poteva convincersi cha solo la meta superiore del mondo fosse 
abitata e il resto deserto o occupato dall’acqua, per questo accoglie il mito 
dell’ Atlantide nel suo dialogo sulla creazione. Anche questo esoordio riprende 
forme tradizionali — il riferimento alla sapienza degli antichi era un altro topos, 
da porre nel prologo tra la dedica e la novita della materia che si trattera. Gia qui 
echeggia perO una concezione delle scoperte che valuta la componente umana, 
che privilegia l’interesse per le nuove popolazioni incontrate al di sopra delle 








Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 91 


possibilita di lucro e di conquista; una visione scientifica che si lascia affascinare 
dall’idea chimerica di piante e animali mai visti, di geografie tutte da esplorare, 
piuttosto che dalle attrattive del guadagno e del commercio.!® 

Un atteggiamento quindi cristiano e nel contempo rinascimentale ed 
ecumenico, cosi come il riferimento platonico suggerirebbe, che nell’accentuare 
gli aspetti pit civili della scoperta sviluppa necessariamente una critica della 
condotta spagnola. Tale critica si articola su due perni centrali: |’opposizione 
verita | favola e l opposizione civilta / barbarie. La verita @ la certezza 
storica che Ramusio aspira ad offrire ai suoi lettori, certezza che, egli avverte, 
non viene garantita dai resoconti degli storici spagnoli raccolti nelle Navigazioni. 
Rammaricandosi che essi non si occupino pill approfonditamente delle risorse 
naturali delle Indie, Ramusio li biasima senza riguardi, poiché essi “‘si affaticano 
continuamente a scrivere delle guerre spagnole . . . notando che vi erano tali e 
tali capitani, alfieri e adelantadi, co’ nomi di tutti i soldati spagnuoli, si da 
cavallo come da piedi, e in qual cittaé di Spagna ciascun di lor nacquero, cosa vana 
e ridicolosa” (10). Sono poche righe, ma velate di un’ironia intelligente, che 
criticano tutta la struttura socio-militare spagnola e che presentano I|’epopea della 
conquista americana come un discorso incoerente, ripetitivo e di nessun valore. Il 
lettore quindi, messo sull’avviso dall’introduzione di Ramusio, dovra saper 
districarsi dalle favole che i cronisti raccontano e far emergere una verita che pud 
derivare soltanto dalla lettura e dal confronto non di una ma di multipli relazioni. 

Ramusio quindi adopera qui la strategia della frantumazione. Pur non 
negando del tutto la validita della storia scritta dagli spagnoli, insinua piuttosto 
che non c’é un’unica interpretazione possibile; pit attendibile delle altre 
narrazioni sarebbe quella di Fernandez de Oviedo, che privilegia la descrizione 
della natura del nuovo continente. Nell’impossibilita di pubblicare per intero la 
Historia General y Natural de las Indias, Ramusio la supplisce con ben undici 
relazioni della conquista, accordando alla molteplicita delle interpretazioni il peso 
finale dell’ imparzialita. 

La seconda opposizione, civilta/barbarie, si esplica nella rivalutazione della 
componente umana del nuovo mondo. Ramusio da grande peso alla tragica 
decimazione degli indiani causata dal contagio del vaiolo (“. . . i nostri vi 
portarono il male delle varuole che mai pit non era stato veduto né udito in 
quelle parti . . . in guisa che, d’un milione e seicentomila anime ch’erano sopra 
detta isola non se ne ritrovano al presente intorno a cinquecento... .” 11), e non 
dimentica di rilevare che tra le cause della morte degli indiani vi é anche “gli 
infiniti strazii e fatiche che gli fecero far gli spagnuoli . . .” (11). Ma soprattutto 
ci tiene ad osservare che sia gli Aztechi che gli Incas usano un sistema di 
documentazione della storia che li accomuna alle civilta che possiedono la 
scrittura: 


18 Non che Ramusio non sia sensibile alle possibilita di sfruttamento commerciale che la scoperta 
di nuove rotte ha aperto; in tale ottica si esprime nel Discorso . . . sul commercio delle spezie. 


92 Lucia Binotti 


Si leggeva anco in detta istoria . . . la forma e modo come essi con alcune imagini 
ieroglifiche descrivono le loro istorie e notano le memorie dei loro re del Messico, 
che sono certe figure d’animali, fiori e uomini fatti in diversi atti e modi. . . . Oltra di 
questo, si trattava come nella provincia del Pert, per aver memoria de’ loro re e degli 
anni che hanno regnato, fanno in questo modo, che hanno case grandi con alcune 
persone diputate, le quali tengono il conto delle cose segnalate con alcune corde fatte 
di bombagio, che gl’Indiani chiamano ‘quippos’. . . . E se ne trovano case pubbliche 
piene di dette corde, con le quai facilmente si da ad intender, colui che n’ha il carico, le 
cose passate, benché elle siano di molta eta avanti a lui, si come noi facciamo con le 
nostre lettere. 


(11) 


Non possono essere barbari, né, si inferisce, schiavi per natura, dei popoli che 
registrano la propria storia; e tale considerazione acquista netti riflessi di denuncia 
dei metodi della conquista, posta com’é a fianco del ragionamento che aveva 
appena negato agli spagnoli la legittimita precisamente della loro narrazione 
storica. Dal paragone dei “quippos” inca con le lettere greco-latine trapela forse 
l’ammirazione di Ramusio per una societa molto pi simile all’ arcadica Grecia di 
Evandro che non all’Europa a lui contemporanea, scenario di “tanti travagli fra i 
miseri cristiani” (12). 

Il risvolto ultimo della dicotomia civilta/barbarie consiste 
nell’individuazione di una sotto-categoria specifica di “civili”, gli italiani (che 
sono poi i “‘lettori benigni” a cui Ramusio si rivolge) uniti dalla ricerca della 
verita contro il favoleggiare anti-storico spagnolo. Ecco che al gruppo anonimo 
di “storici spagnoli” si contrastano due voci ben identificate, Pietro Martire e 
Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo. Il primo innanzitutto é milanese, @ un vero 
umanista, scrive in latino e rispetta il retaggio dei classici. Il secondo, “tanto 
amico dell’eccellenza vostra”, nonostante sia spagnolo, ha ripetutamnte 
dichiarato il suo debito verso la tradizione dell’umanesimo, la sua infinita 
ammirazione per tutto cid che é italiano (Gerbi 191-262), la sua appartenenza 
insomma al gruppo selezionato dei latini e il suo ripudio dei barbari. L’elogio di 
Cristoforo Colombo, che pone quasi melodrammaticamente fine al Discorso, si 
incastona Cosi in questa invocazione al sentimento di italianita che separa i 
“benigni lettori” dalle riprovevoli azioni dei conquistadores e insiste ancora una 
volta sulla falsita della parola storica spagnola: 


Nel fine adunque di questo nostro discorso . . . parmi anco d’essere obligato a dire 
alquante parole accompagnate dalla verita per diffesa del signor Cristoforo Colombo, 
il quale fu il primo inventore di discoprire e far venire in luce questa meta del mondo. . 
. . La qual [impresa] essendo stata la pil’ maravigliosa e la pit grande che gia infiniti 
secoli sia stata fatta, molti maestri, pilotti e marinari di Spagna . . . s’imaginarono, 
per abbassar la gloria del signor Cristoforo, una favola piena di malignita e tristizia. . 
. . Dipoi gli storici spagnoli, che scrivono tutto questo successo .. . tolsero ad 
approvar la detta favola e dipingerla con mille colori . . . favola veramente e 


Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 93 


invenzione ridicolosa, composta e formata con tanta malignita . . . non esprimendo 
questi [storici] né il luogo, né il tempo né il nome dell’autore, ma solamente volendo 
che si porga fede alla loro semplice parola. .. . 

(13-14) 


Ramusio riprende dunque i temi sviluppati da Liburnio venticinque anni prima: 
l’atteggiamento scettico verso la parola storica degli spagnoli (Cortés per 
Liburnio, gli anonimi “storici” per Ramusio) e la distinzione tra latini e barbari 
che diventa automatica separazione tra italiani e stranieri. Non c’é dubbio che per 
ambedue gli scrittori il lettore modello critica le azioni degli spagnoli ed é 
orgoglioso di essere “italiano”. Nell’impostazione di questo lettore, pero, tra 
Liburnio e Ramusio qualcosa é cambiato. Liburnio scrive per un pubblico che 
precisamente in quel momento sta delineando la propria identita culturale e 
linguistica. La strada che l’umanista friulano gli indica é conservatrice e ancorata 
a un sicuro passato classicheggiante. Il lettore di Ramusio invece non ha pit 
dubbi sulla lingua nella quale leggera né sui suoi legami manifesti con il mondo 
degli antichi e pud pertanto permettersi di guardare in avanti. E per |’appunto le 
Navigazioni sono tutte proiettate verso il futuro. Rappresentano l’ansia di 
scavalcare il sapere antico e la volonta di garantire solide fondamenta alle 
rinnovate capacita di speculazione intellettuale dei moderni. Le Navigazioni, 
poste come sono ai limiti tra metodo filologico e metodo scientifico, 
simboleggiano la nuova concezione del mondo che Galileo “scoprira” di 1a a 
poco. 


The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Opere citate 


Adorno R., The Discursive Encounter of Spain and America: The Authority of 
Eyewitness Testimony in the Writing of History, “William and Mary Quarterly” 
49.2 (1992), 210-228. 

Ambrosini F., Paesi e mari ignoti: America e colonialismo europeo nella cultura 
veneziana, Venezia, Deputazione Editrice, 1982. 

Anderson B., Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of 
Nationalism, London, Verso, 1991. 

Asor-Rosa A. (ac. di), Le questioni, vol. 5 di Letteratura italiana, Torino, Einaudi, 
1986. 

, La fondazione del laico, in Asor-Rosa (ac. di), Le questioni 17-124. 

Binotti L., Liburnio traduttore della carta di Cortés: l'immagine del Nuovo Mondo e la 
“questione della lingua” in Italia, in Atti del Convegno internazionale “Italia ed 
Europa nella linguistica del Rinascimento. Confronti e relazioni”, Istituto di 
Studi Rinascimentali, Ferrara, Presso 1’Istituto, in stampa. 


94 Lucia Binotti 


, Cultural Identity and the Ideologies of Translation in Sixteenth-Century 
Europe: Italian Prologues to Spanish Chronicles of the New World, in Lloyd 
Kramer (a c. di), “History of European Ideas”, Winter 1992 Special Issue, 
“European Cultural Identity and the Non-Western World”, Oxford, Pergamon 
Press, in stampa. 

, Los prélogos italianos a crénicas de la conquista, in Actas del XI Congreso 
Internacional de Hispanistas, Irvine, 23-30 agosto 1992, in stampa. 

Brading D. A., The First America:The Spanish Monarchy, Creole Patriots and the 
Liberal State, 1492-1867, Cambridge, Cambridge UP, 1991. 

Caracciolo Arico A. (a c. di), L’impatto della scoperta dell'America nella cultura 
veneziana, Roma, Bulzoni, 1990. 

Certeau M., The Writing of History, traduzione di Tom Conley dall’ediz. francese 
L’ écriture de l'histoire (1975), New York, Columbia UP, 1988. 

Cochrane E. (ac. di), The Late Italian Renaissance 1525-1630, New York, Harper and 
Row, 1970. 

Cortés, H., Cartas de Relacién, a c. di Mario Hernandez Sanchez-Barba, Madrid, 
Historia 16, 1985. 

, Letters from Mexico, tradotte e curate da Anthony Pagden, New Haven, Yale 
UP, 1986. 

Dionisotti C., Niccold Liburnio e la letteratura cortigiana, in Rinascimento europeo e 
Rinascimento veneziano, Civilta europea e civilta veneziana, 3, Firenze, 
Sansoni, 1967, 25-46. 

Eagleton T., Jdeology: An Introduction, London, Verso, 1991. 

Elliott J. H., Cortés, Velazquez and Charles V, in Cortés, Letters xi-xxxvil. 

European-Americana, A Chronological Guide to Works Printed in Europe Relating to 
the Americas 1493-1776, vol. I, 1493-1600, a c. di John Alden, New York, 
Readex Books, 1980. 

Ferro D., Traduzioni di opere spagnole sulla scoperta dell'America nell’editoria 
veneziana del Cinquecento, in Caracciolo Aricd 93-106. 

Grande dizionario della lingua italiana, a c. di Salvatore Battaglia, Torino, UTET, 
1961-. 

Gerbi A., La natura delle Indie Nove. Da Cristoforo Colombo a Gonzalo Fernandez de 
Oviedo, Milano, Ricciardi, 1975. 

Gallo M., Relaciones dialogicas en la literatura hispanoamericana, “Filologia” 24.1- 
2 (1989), 115-32. 

Guglielminetti M., /1 Messico a Venezia nel 1528: Benedetto Bordon e Hernan 
Cortés, in Caracciolo Aricd 107-114. 

Janson T., Latin Prose Prefaces, Stockholm, Almqvist and Wiksell, 1964. 

Loesberg J., Narratives of Authority: Cortés, Gémara, Diaz, “Prose Studies” 6 (1983), 
681-694. 

Lépez de Gomara F., Hispania Victrix: Primera y segunda parte de la historia general 
de las Indias, in Biblioteca de Autores Espanoles, tomo 22, Madrid, Rivadeneyra, 
1858, 155-455. 

Milanesi M., Introduzione, in Ramusio, Navigazioni, I, XI-XXXIX. 

Pagden A., Translator’s Introduction, in Cortés, Letters xxxix-lx. 

Pastor B., Discursos narrativos de la conquista: mitificacién y emergencia, Buenos 
Aires, Ediciones del Norte, 1988. 








Liburnio e Ramusio lettori delle crénicas delle conquiste spagnole 95 


Perelman Ch. e L. Olbrechts-Tyteca, The New Rhetoric: A Treatise on Argumentation 
(1958), traduzione di John Wilkinson e Purcell Weaver, Notre Dame, U of Notre 
Dame P, 1971. 

Ramusio G. B., Navigazioni e viaggi, a c. di Marica Milanesi, 5 voll., Torino, 
Einaudi, 1978-1988. 

Sapegno M. S., “/talia’, ‘Italiani’, in Asor-Rosa (a c. di), Le questioni 169-222. 


Luigi Avonto 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 
in Oviedo e Garcilaso El Inca 


Il navigante sconfitto dalla violenza del mare e dalla furia degli elementi é senza 
dubbio un vecchio tema della letteratura che da sempre esercita un fascino 
particolare su autori e lettori. L’Odissea omerica é il racconto delle navigazioni e 
dei naufragi di Ulisse, e naufragi e mostri marini gia si trovano nella Bibbia. 

Nell’eta delle grandi scoperte geografiche, quando gli europei si lanciarono 
alla conquista degli oceani, i naviganti affrontarono peripezie anche pit gravi di 
quelle vissute dai loro colleghi dell’antichita, peripezie delle quali restano vive 
testimonianze in una miriade di relazioni di sopravvissuti che si potrebbero tutte 
raggruppare, secondo la suggestiva definizione di uno studioso spagnolo, sotto il 
titolo di “storie tragico-marittime” (Martinez 126). Basti pensare che proprio in 
quell’epoca un grande autore come Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo, cronista delle 
Indie, volle appositamente dedicare il libro L ed ultimo della sua monumentale 
Historia General y Natural de las Indias alla narrazione degli “Infortunios e 
naufragios”, ossia delle tragedie del mare, occorsi a vari personaggi nella regione 
del Nuovo Mondo che gli era familiare — quella antillana e centroamericana — - 
fra il 1513 ed il 1548. 

Che il tema dei naufragi e della lotta per la sopravvivenza dell’uomo in balia 
della furia del mare e degli elementi esercitasse un fascino particolare sull’antico 
storico spagnolo, é del resto confermato dal fatto stesso che Oviedo, prima 
ancora di iniziare i racconti che costituiscono la parte della propria opera dedicata 
agli “Infortunios e naufragios”, narra alcune delle pit notevoli peripezie nelle 
quali egli stesso si trovo coinvolto durante 1 suoi frequenti viaggi da un porto 
all’altro della regione caribica e centroamericana a bordo di piccole navi 
malandate e malsicure, alcune delle quali di sua stessa proprieta (Historia 
306-07). Non solo, ma si ha pure qualche chiaro indizio che proprio al tema dei 
naufragi nei mari del Nuovo Mondo il grande storico delle Indie intendesse 
dedicare parte pit ampia di quella tramandataci negli “Infortunios e naufragios” da 
lui narrati nella sua Historia. 

Proprio a questo proposito, gia nel 1932 l’illustre storico argentino Enrique 
de Gandia aveva segnalato l’esistenza, fra le pagine dell’ Historia, di un accenno di 
Oviedo ad una vicenda di naufraghi che, se fosse stata scritta per intero, anziché 
soltanto riassunta in un’epigrafe di poche righe, “sarebbe stata molto pit 
affascinante di quella di Robinson Crusoe” (Gandia 18). Si giudichi — osservava 
allora il Gandia — dal titolo del capitolo XIV del libro L, ove si fa appunto 
menzione di avventure che per nostra sfortuna il cronista omise di raccontare: 





Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 97 


De un caso admirable de un marinero veneciano que estovo en una isla perdido dos 
afios, e otro genovés ocho afios; e cémo se juntaron en una isla éstos e otros 
perdidos; e c6mo quedaron al cabo solos el veneciano y el genovés; e cémo después 
los sac6é Dios de aquel trabajo. 

(Historia 357) 


Si tratta ovviamente, dato il contesto geografico in cui si situa |’Historia di 
Oviedo, di due marinai italiani al servizio della Spagna, uno veneziano e |’altro 
genovese, naufragati in qualche angolo sperduto del Mar dei Caraibi in epoca 
imprecisata, ma comunque collocabile, considerando il periodo in cui lo storico 
scrisse la sua celebre opera, nei primi decenni del XVI secolo. Quel che é€ dato di 
conoscere dallo scarno titolo del progettato capitolo dell’opera di Oviedo é 
comunque assai poco, dal momento che I’autore si limita a riferire che il 
marinaio veneziano rimase perduto su un’isola per due anni e quello genovese su 
un’altra per otto, che i due si incontrarono, insieme ad altri naufraghi, e furono 
alla fine gli unici due a sopravvivere e ad essere tratti in salvo. Questo, sino ad 
oggi, lo stato delle nostre conoscenze sull’argomento, poiché non mi risulta che 
Nessuno studioso sia finora riuscito ad individuare la fonte del “caso admirable” 
dei due marinai italiani che Oviedo intendeva riferire nella sua Historia. 

Grazie alle pazienti indagini d’archivio che sto da anni effettuando ai fini 
della ricerca di documentazione per una storia del contributo italiano alla 
conoscenza del Nuovo Mondo nei primi cinquant’anni del XVI secolo, ho avuto 
pero l’occasione di imbattermi in un documento che mi pare possa finalmente 
fornire una risposta adeguata ai vari interrogativi sollevati dall’accenno di Oviedo 
alla vicenda poc’anzi ricordata, documento che ritengo pertanto doveroso, oltre 
che opportuno, portare all’attenzione degli studiosi. 

Si tratta di una relazione, in spagnolo, del naufragio occorso nel 1528 al 
“maestre” genovese Juan, o Juan Bautista (ossia, Giovan Battista),! e ad altri 
marinai imbarcati su una nave spagnola in servizio nel Mar dei Caraibi, i quali 
furono sbattuti da una terribile tempesta su alcuni isolotti del cosiddetto Banco de 
la Serrana, ancor oggi cosi denominato e facente parte, con le isole di San 
Andrés, Providencia, Santa Catalina e gli isolotti e banchi di Roncador, 
Quitasuefio, Bajo Nuevo e Serranilla, di un’Intendenza della Colombia detta di 
San Andrés y Providencia, posta ad est della costa del Nicaragua.” 


1 Avwverto il lettore che mentre nel titolo della relazione questo personaggio viene ricordato 
semplicemente come maestre Juan, alla fine del documento egli stesso si firma come “maestre 
Juan Bautista Ginovés, vezino de Triana”, ossia residente, come numerosi altri marinai genovesi a 
quel tempo emigrati in Spagna, nel ben noto quartiere sivigliano di Triana, situato lungo il 
Guadalquivir. Sulle colonie genovesi nel Sud della Spagna nei secoli XV e XVI, vedi Boscolo; 
Almagia; Avonto. 

2 Tl limite verso il Nicaragua é dato dal meridiano di 82°0 ed il capoluogo, San Andrés, é situato a 
12°31°40” di lat. N. Ricordo per inciso che la sovranita sul banco della Serrana, contesa fra Stati 
Uniti e Colombia, fu attribuita definitivamente alla Colombia con il trattato sottoscritto dai due Paesi 


98 Luigi Avonto 


Il documento, che si trova nell’Archivo General de Indias di Siviglia, é 
intitolato Relacién de lo que hizo maestre Juan en los ocho anos que estuvo en la 
ysla de la Serrana (AGI, Patronato 18) ed é datato “afio de 1537 que vino”, ossia 
anno 1537, quando venne personalmente in Spagna il suddetto “maestre” Juan 
Bautista a fare relazione del suo naufragio. Per la precisione, desidero aggiungere 
che, avendo nel frattempo consultato varie raccolte documentarie edite per 
verificare se la relazione fosse gia stata pubblicata da qualche altro studioso, ho 
potuto accertare che di essa esiste un’edizione curata da Luis Torres de Mendoza 
nel 1868 (Coleccién, X, 57-65), senza pero alcuna indicazione di data e con 
omissioni ed errori di trascrizione che compromettono talora seriamente |’esatta 
comprensione del testo. Soltanto nell’indice del volume X della raccolta 
documentaria curata da Torres de Mendoza compare |’anno 1528 come data della 
relazione in questione, ma é bene avvertire che mentre quest’ultimo viene 
indicato nella relazione di “maestre” Juan Bautista semplicemente come anno in 
cui egli parti da Santo Domingo e fece naufragio al Banco della Serrana, la 
relazione stessa fu scritta invece oltre otto anni pil tardi, Ossia nei primi mesi 
del 1537, quando il naufrago genovese, salvato insieme ad un suo compagno di 
sventura da una nave di passaggio il 20 settembre 1536,° si trovava ormai in 
Spagna, e precisamente a Siviglia, per riferire il suo naufragio al “piloto mayor” 
della Casa de Contratacidn* ed inviare poi il documento attestante le sue 
vicissitudini all’imperatore Carlo V in persona. 

Esaurita la discussione circa il problema di datazione dell’ interessantissima 
relazione del marinaio genovese, la quale costituisce fra l’altro, in certo qual 
modo, il documento ufficiale della prima ricognizione a noi nota delle isole del 
Banco della Serrana, mi sia ora consentito di illustrarme il contenuto, dalla lettura 
del quale sara facile desumere che il documento si accorda alla perfezione con il 
titolo del progettato capitolo XIV del libro L dell’ Historia di Oviedo al punto di 
farmi ritenere che proprio alla vicenda narrata da “maestre” Juan Bautista lo 
storico spagnolo dovette riferirsi quando riassunse succintamente le notizie 
relative al “caso admirable” dei due naufraghi italiani sopra accennato. 

Narra dunque Juan Bautista che trovandosi a Santo Domingo, nell’isola 
Espafiola, si era cola imbarcato, alla vigilia delle Palme del 1528, e cioé il 4 


1’8 settembre 1972. Sull’argomento vedi V4zquez Carrizosa. Colgo qui l’occasione per ringraziare 
vivamente S.E. il Dr.Ratl Orejuela Bueno, Ambasciatore della Colombia in Uruguay, e la Sig.ra 
Inés de Cuéllar, funzionaria dell’Ambasciata colombiana a Montevideo, per |’interessante 
materiale bibliografico su Quitasuefio, Roncador e Serrana che vollero molto gentilmente mettere 
a mia disposizione. 

Questa data si desume dalle stesse dichiarazioni di “maestre” Juan Bautista, il quale afferma di 
essere stato salvato da una nave spagnola di passaggio che lo avwvistd “un dia, vispera del Sefior 
Sant Mateo”, ossia la vigilia del giorno di S. Matteo — in altre parole, il 20 settembre (Cappelli, 87 
e 142) — dopo otto anni di permanenza sull’isola Serrana. 

A quel tempo l’ufficio di “piloto mayor", massima autorita di Spagna nel campo della 
navigazione transoceanica, era tenuto dall’italiano Sebastiano Caboto. 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 99 


aprile di quell’anno, sulla nave di un certo Pedro de Cifuentes, della quale era 
“maestre” e pilota un marinaio soprannominato Portogalete.> La nave, diretta 
all’isola Margarita, di fronte alla costa dell’attuale Venezuela, dove avrebbe 
dovuto portare rifornimenti per la fortezza ivi costruita dagli spagnoli qualche 
tempo prima, fece anzitutto scalo nel porto di Higuey, situato nella parte 
orientale dell’isola Espafiola, dirigendosi poi all’isola di San Juan, attuale Puerto 
Rico, ove si ferm6 per cinque giorni. Da Puerto Rico, essa riprese il viaggio 
sino a toccare I’isola di Santa Cruz per farvi rifornimento d’acqua, ma, essendosi 
cola imbattuta in due canoe cariche di guerrieri indiani armati di archi e di frecce 
avvelenate, i quali impedirono all’equipaggio di sbarcare, fu costretta ad 
allontanarsi e a dirigersi all’isola di Piritu, posta a 30 leghe dalla cosiddetta costa 
delle Perle, un tempo famosa per i suoi banchi perliferi, di fronte all’attuale citta 
venezolana di Barcelona. 

E a questo punto che per il povero marinaio genovese e per i suoi compagni 
doveva iniziare una vera e propria odissea per il Mar dei Caraibi. II pilota 
Portogalete, non riuscendo infatti a riconoscere la zona in cui Si trovava, si 
diresse ad ovest costeggiando il continente fino a giungere ad un’isola detta di 
Guaimacarén nell’intento di farvi sosta per rifornirsi d’acqua di cui la ciurma 
aveva ormai urgente necessita, ma, non essendo riuscito a trovarne, fu costretto a 
dirigersi nuovamente verso la costa del continente, fino ad entrare in una piccola 
rada in prossimita di un villaggio di indiani non sottomessi agli spagnoli. La 
nave rimase li ancorata per tutta la notte, finché, all’alba del giorno successivo, 
l’equipaggio poté scorgere undici canoe cariche di guerrieri indiani armati di archi 
e frecce avvelenate che si stavano rapidamente avvicinando al veliero. Giunti in 
prossimita di quest’ ultimo, gli indigeni l’abbordarono chiedendo ai marinai asce 
di ferro ed uno di questi, un certo Battista, del quale l’autore della relazione 
ricorda che era anch’egli genovese, ritenendo che gli indiani avessero intenzioni 
pacifiche e volessero semplicemente barattare oggetti con gli spagnoli, commise 
V’imprudenza di abbandonare la nave per salire a bordo di una delle canoe. Non 
appena fu salito su quest’ultima, gli indiani si allontanarono dalla nave e si 
diressero rapidamente a terra portando con loro il malcapitato marinaio. 
“Maestre” Juan Bautista, autore della relazione, afferrd allora un archibugio e 
sparo contro gli indiani per indurli a liberare lo sventurato corregionale, ma, 
nonostante riuscisse ad uccidere il capo tribi ed altri due guerrieri, gli indiani, 
dopo aver lanciato numerose frecce contro la nave, riuscirono a fuggire a terra 
portando con loro il marinaio catturato. Di lui, scrive “maestre” Juan Bautista, 


5 Nella marina spagnola dell’epoca, il “maestre” veniva dopo il capitano ed il pilota; il suo grado 
corrispondeva, pertanto, a quello di nostromo capo o vice comandante. Egli era incaricato di far 
eseguire gli ordini del capitano della nave e di dirigere i marinai nelle guardie e nei servizi, come 
la manovra delle vele, gli ormeggi e gli ancoraggi. Esclusivamente sulle navi mercantili, come nel 
caso qui ricordato, il “maestre” poteva perd essere anche comandante della nave e fungere, al 
tempo stesso, da pilota. In questo caso il “maestre” era sovente proprietario 0 comproprietario 
della nave, o rappresentante dei proprietari. 


100 Luigi Avonto 


non si seppe pili nulla, ma, considerando che gli indiani della zona erano 
sospettati di praticare l’antropofagia, tutto lascia presumere che la cattura di 
Battista genovese sia culminata in una tragedia. 

Lasciato il luogo del combattimento, la nave riprese il suo viaggio lungo la 
costa venezolana, riuscendo finalmente a rifornirsi d’acqua alla foce di un fiume 
non meglio precisato. Dopo di che, vedendo che il pilota non conosceva la zona 
e non riusciva ad orientarsi, i marinai gli imposero di fare ritorno a Santo 
Domingo, ma, giunta la nave all’isola di Aruba, il pilota Portogalete, 
considerando la scarsita delle provviste a bordo e temendo di dover rendere conto 
del proprio operato alle autorita dell’Espafiola qualora la nave fosse riuscita a 
ritornare a Santo Domingo, una volta sceso a terra si diede alla fuga, 
abbandonando i suoi compagni al loro destino. 

‘““Maestre” Juan Bautista e i suoi compagni, privi ormai di pilota e senza 
ausilio di una qualsiasi guida che li potesse dirigere, poiché, come egli stesso 
scrive, tutti a bordo erano “novicios en el arte de la mar”, decisero di fare di 
necessita virti: tentando da soli la via del ritorno a Santo Domingo.® Una notte, 
pero, la nave fu improvvisamente investita da una violenta tempesta che spezzo 
entrambi gli alberi, trascinandoli in mare con tutte le vele, e apri larghe falle 
nella chiglia attraverso le quali il veliero imbarcd acqua in gran quantita. Per sei 
giorni consecutivi la nave, ormai ridotta ad un relitto, ando alla deriva in balia 
della furia dei venti e del mare, finché una notte, in piena tempesta, essa ando ad 
incagliarsi su un banco in prossimit& dell’isola Serrana, fracassandosi definitiva- 
mente. 

A causa dell’oscurita della notte e della furia degli elementi, gli sventurati 
naufraghi non riuscirono subito ad avvistare il vicino isolotto della Serrana e 
rimasero pertanto sul banco ove la nave si era incagliata sino al momento in cui 
qualcuno scorse il biancheggiare della spiaggia prospiciente. Con grande presenza 
di spirito, “maestre” Juan Bautista estrasse allora dalla cassa in cui custodiva 1 
propri effetti personali un corno contenente polvere da sparo ed un acciarino che 
sarebbero potuti servire per accendere il fuoco a terra e, dopo aver stretto fra 1 
denti l’acciarino, si gettO coraggiosamente fra le onde, raggiungendo a nuoto 
V’isola Serrana. 

Una volta messi al sicuro l’acciarino e la polvere, il marinaio genovese 
tornd nuovamente al relitto della nave e, dopo aver legato insieme vari cavi degli 
ormeggi che poté trovare a bordo, ne fece uno lungo con Il’intenzione di 
utilizzarlo per trarre in salvo sull’isola i suoi compagni. Dopo di che, afferrd 


68 probabile che il genovese Juan Bautista, forse un po’ pid esperto o pili anziano dei suoi 
colleghi, fosse da questi designato a fungere da “maestre” proprio in quel momento cruciale, in 
sostituzione del “maestre”-pilota che aveva disertato ad Aruba. Cid potrebbe spiegare il grado di 
“maestre” con cui egli appunto si firma nella sua relazione. Questa mia ipotesi parrebbe del resto 
confermata dal fatto che al momento del naufragio della nave, proprio Juan Bautista dimostro un 
coraggio esemplare, riuscendo fra l’altro, come vedremo fra poco, a salvare alcuni dei suoi 
compagni. 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 101 


l’estremita della fune e raggiunse nuovamente a nuoto l’isola Serrana, ove 
assicuro il cavo a terra per consentire agli altri naufraghi di raggiungere la riva 
sorreggendosi ad esso. 

All’alba del giorno successivo, i naufraghi poterono constatare che la marea 
della notte s’era portata via anche gli ultimi relitti della nave, cosicché, ad 
eccezione della polvere da sparo e dell’acciarino messi al sicuro da “maestre” Juan 
Bautista, non si poté recuperare nulla che potesse essere di qualche utilita alla 
loro sopravvivenza sull’isola. Non solo, ma in mancanza di pietra focaia, che il 
marinaio genovese non era riuscito a trovare al momento del terribile naufragio, 
anche I’acciarino e la polvere rimasero inservibili e i poveri naufraghi furono 
costretti per quasi due mesi ad alimentarsi di carne cruda di uccelli e lupi marini 
che venivano all’isola e a bere il sangue di questi ultimi in mancanza d’acqua. 

Considerando impossibile sopravvivere a lungo in quelle disperate 
condizioni, alcuni naufraghi decisero allora di costruire una zattera di fortuna con 
legni che il mare aveva portato a riva, legandoli insieme con strisce di cuoio 
ricavate dalle pelli dei lupi marini. Con quella rudimentale imbarcazione, essi 
speravano di poter raggiungere qualche terra abitata per chiedere soccorsi. 

Dalla narrazione di “maestre” Juan Bautista possiamo desumere che i marinai 
che erano riusciti a mettersi in salvo sull’isola Serrana dopo il naufragio della 
nave erano in tutto sei: di questi, tre lasciarono |’isola affidandosi alla zattera e 
trovando quasi certamente la morte in mare di li a poco, mentre altri tre, e 
precisamente lo stesso “maestre” Juan Bautista, un marinaio spagnolo di nome 
Moreno de Malaga ed un ragazzo, rimasero sull’isola ritenendo troppo pericoloso 
avventurarsi in alto mare a bordo di un’imbarcazione cosi malsicura. 

Trascorsi quattro giorni dalla partenza degli altri compagni, il marinaio 
Moreno de Malaga, ormai gravemente infermo per la mancanza d’acqua e per 
l’alimentazione esclusivamente a base di carne cruda degli animali cacciati 
sull’isola, impazzi in preda ad una grave crisi e, lacerandosi a morsi le braccia, 
mori “como rabiando” (AGI, Patronato 18, “Relacién’”). Il tragico episodio 
avvenne, come precisa il ‘“maestre” genovese, intorno al mese di agosto del 
1528, cosicché, se teniamo conto che i naufraghi avevano ormai trascorso, fino a 
quel momento, circa due mesi sull’isola Serrana, il naufragio della nave con cui 
essi erano partiti da Santo Domingo all’inizio di aprile di quell’anno dovette 
avvenire al principio del mese di giugno. 

Vedendo che gli altri compagni avevano lasciato I’ isola a bordo della zattera, 
che il povero Moreno era morto in preda ad una crisi spaventosa e che |’unico 
compagno di sventura rimastogli era il ragazzo, “maestre” Juan Bautista cerco 
allora di trovare qualche rimedio alla disperata situazione. Servendosi di scudi di 
tartarughe marine, il naufrago genovese comincid a scavare buche in varie parti 
dell’isola nella speranza di trovare acqua dolce, ma, come egli scrive, essendo 
l’isola di limitate dimensioni e situata in pieno mare, la poca acqua che riusciva 
ad estrarre era quasi salata quanto quella marina e per poter essere ingerita doveva 
essere mescolata con il sangue dei lupi marini. 


102 Luigi Avonto 


Durante tutto questo tempo non piovve mai, cosicché Juan Bautista ed il 
ragazzo non poterono neppure alleviare i loro stenti bevendo acqua piovana. 
Nella speranza di qualche temporale, i due naufraghi avevano scavato buche nella 
sabbia e le avevano ricoperte con pelli di lupi marini per raccogliere in esse e in 
alcuni gusci di molluschi detti “cobos”’ un po’ d’acqua, ma quando finalmente, 
intorno al mese di ottobre, piovve un po’, l’acqua piovana non poté durare a 
lungo poiché si disperse ben presto nella sabbia. La poca che i due naufraghi 
riuscirono a raccogliere dovette, fra l’altro, essere ugualmente mescolata al 
sangue dei lupi marini, poiché i loro stomaci, messi a dura prova dall’acqua 
salmastra bevuta per tanto tempo, reagirono con terribili bruciori all’ingestione 
di acqua dolce. 

Avvicinandosi ormai la brutta stagione e non avendo fuoco con cui 
riscaldarsi e cucinare, il marinaio genovese decise di costruire una zattera di 
piccole dimensioni che potesse sorreggerlo sino al punto del banco in cui era 
naufragata la nave al fine di poter recuperare dal fondale qualcosa che servisse ad 
accendere il fuoco e, munita la zattera di una pietra a guisa di rudimentale ancora, 
si diresse al luogo in cui era affondata la nave. Ancor6 la zattera in un punto in 
cui vi era un braccio e mezzo di profondita e, dopo essersi pill volte immerso 
sott’acqua, riusci finalmente a portare in superficie una selce che poté adattare 
all’acciarino per far fuoco. Da questo momento, le condizioni dei due miseri 
naufraghi migliorarono un po’, sebbene entrambi vivessero nel continuo timore 
che uno di loro due potesse da un momento all’altro morire, abbandonando il 
compagno a sicura morte. 

Ogni notte “‘maestre” Juan Bautista e il ragazzo accendevano un fuoco nella 
speranza che qualche nave di passaggio potesse avvistarlo e trarli in salvo, finché 
una notte il fuoco fu scorto da due marinai di una nave anch’essa perdutasi 
qualche tempo prima in quei paraggi, i quali avevano fatto naufragio su un altro 
isolotto a due leghe di distanza da quello in cui si trovavano Juan Bautista ed il 
suo compagno. Costoro costruirono pertanto una zattera, vennero all’isola in cui 
si trovavano il “maestre” genovese ed il ragazzo e, unitisi a questi ultimi, 
trascorsero insieme circa cinque anni sulla stessa isola. 

Dalla relazione di “maestre” Juan Bautista, apprendiamo poi che i quattro 
naufraghi decisero in quel tempo di costruire un’imbarcazione con alcuni legni 
portati dal mare® e a tale scopo allestirono anche una fucina per lavorare il ferro, 
utilizzando come mantici rudimentali alcune pelli di lupi marini. Il ferro col 
quale fabbricare i chiodi ed una sega per tagliare il legname fu recuperato dallo 
stesso Juan Bautista, nel punto in cui era affondata la sua nave, da alcuni oggetti 


7 11 “cobo” é il piu grande mollusco testaceo delle Antille e dei Caraibi. I] suo guscio, di colore 
madraperlaceo, raggiunge un diametro di 25 cm. 

I naufraghi dovettero ricorrere a questi legni, con ogni probabilita relitti di navi naufragate o 
tronchi d’albero provenienti da altre isole della zona, portati dal mare, in quanto l’isola Serrana é 
un isolotto sabbioso privo di vegetazione arborea. 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 103 


di questo metallo destinati alla chiesa di Cubagua? e finiti in fondo al mare al 
momento del naufragio. Come vele, i naufraghi utilizzarono pelli di lupi marini 
conciate alla meglio e, quando |’imbarcazione fu ultimata, i quattro salirono a 
bordo pensando di poter cosi raggiungere |’isola di Giamaica.!° A breve distanza 
dalla riva, pero, “maestre” Juan Bautista, notando che nella barca filtrava troppa 
acqua poiché le assi erano commesse insieme non con pece, ma semplicemente 
con grasso di lupi marini mescolato a carbone di legna ridotto in polvere, e 
pensando che nessuno avrebbe potuto salvarsi, chiese di essere ricondotto 
sull’isola. A lui si uni uno dei due nuovi compagni, mentre I’altro ed il ragazzo 
preferirono tentare la sorte a bordo della rudimentale imbarcazione. Di questi 
ultimi non si seppe pit nulla, ma quasi certamente furono inghiottiti dal mare, 
poiché, come scrive “maestre” Juan Bautista, “los tiempos les fueron adversos” 
(AGI, Patronato 18, “Relacion’”). Dalla relazione del naufrago genovese, si 
apprende che dal momento dell’incontro con i due naufraghi dell’altra isola, 
questi ultimi trascorsero con lui ed il ragazzo circa cinque anni sull’isola Serrana, 
mentre dalle scarne notizie forniteci da Oviedo nel titolo del progettato capitolo 
della sua Historia che gia ho avuto occasione di trascrivere, si pud desumere che 
il marinaio che si uni a “maestre” Juan Bautista quando gli altri naufraghi 
decisero di tentare di raggiungere la Giamaica aveva trascorso in precedenza due 
anni sull’isolotto vicino all’isola Serrana. Se consideriamo poi che dalla 
relazione oggetto di questo studio risulta che gli unici due superstiti rimasero 


9 Cubagua é un’isola del Venezuela situata fra la costa del continente e l’isola Margarita. Essa 
forma due canali con la costa continentale a sud. Fu scoperta da Cristoforo Colombo il 14 agosto 
1498, durante il suo terzo viaggio. Fra il 1510 ed il 1512 Cubagua divenne il primo insediamento 
spagnolo nel territorio dell’attuale Venezuela, poiché in quel periodo vi si stabilirono alcuni coloni 
prover da Santo Domingo con I|’intenzione di sfruttare i ricchi banchi perliferi della zona. 

E probabile che i due nuovi naufraghi incontrati da “maestre” Juan Bautista, prima di fare 
naufragio con |’altra nave che si era venuta a trovare nei paraggi del Banco della Serrana, 
avessero fatto scalo alla Giamaica e pensassero, pertanto, di non essere troppo lontani da tale 
isola. Il “maestre” genovese sembrerebbe quindi fare riferimento, nella sua relazione, pit alle 
supposizioni dei suoi due nuovi compagni circa la vicinanza alla Giamaica, che alle proprie, 
soprattutto se pensiamo che nella prima parte della sua relazione, quando narra il viaggio lungo la 
costa venezolana, Juan Bautista scrive che la sua nave comincio a perdersi in prossimita della 
costa delle Perle, poiché il pilota Portogalete non riusci a riconoscere la zona, e aggiunge poco 
dopo che né lui né i suoi compagni sapevano dove si trovavano. La mia ipotesi parrebbe inoltre 
confermata dal fatto che solo marinai che avessero fatto naufragio al Banco della Serrana a bordo 
di una nave proveniente dalla Giamaica avrebbero potuto ritenere di trovarsi non troppo lontani da 
quell’isola delle Antille, la quale @ situata a ragionevole distanza dal Banco della Serrana, a nord 
di quest’ultimo, mentre, nel caso di “maestre” Juan Bautista, la sua nave, prima di fare naufragio, 
aveva compiuto una lunga navigazione in prossimita della costa venezolana del continente, molto a 
sud-est del suddetto banco, ed era stata poi sospinta alla deriva verso ovest e nord da una terribile 
tempesta durata vari giomi sino ad infrangersi in prossimita dell’isola Serrana. Bastera, per 
convincersene, dare uno sguardo ad una carta del Mar Caribico, nella quale il Banco della 
Serrana risulta appunto situato ad una distanza non enorme dalla Giamaica, mentre la costa 
venezolana del continente, lungo la quale aveva navigato il genovese Juan Bautista, si trova molto 
pill a sud-est, a grande distanza dal banco in questione. 


104 Luigi Avonto 


sull’isola Serrana ancora per altri tre anni finché furono tratti in salvo da una 
nave di passaggio il 20 settembre 1536, gli otto anni indicati da Oviedo come 
periodo della permanenza del marinaio genovese sull’isola risultano pienamente 
documentati, tanto pit quando si ricordi che il suo naufragio avvenne nel giugno 
del 1528 e il suo salvataggio nel settembre del 1536. Juan Bautista dovette 
pertanto trascorrere alla Serrana cinque mesi (dal giugno all’ottobre 1528) con il 
ragazzo che poi decise di lasciare 1’isola, cinque anni con i naufraghi venuti 
dall’isola vicina ed infine altri tre anni con il marinaio che all’ultimo momento 
decise come lui di rinunciare al tentativo di passare alla Giamaica. 

Quanto a quest’ultimo compagno di Juan Bautista, egli doveva aver fatto 
naufragio sull’isolotto vicino all’isola Serrana qualche tempo prima del 
genovese, probabilmente nel 1527. Stando alle scarne informazioni che si 
possono desumere dal titolo di Oviedo al quale ho pit volte accennato, costui 
aveva gia trascorso circa due anni sull’isolotto in cui si trovava prima di 
incontrare “maestre” Juan Bautista, cosicché, considerando che anch’egli fu tratto 
in salvo con il genovese il 20 settembre 1536, possiamo ritenere che il suo 
soggiorno al Banco della Serrana fosse durato complessivamente oltre nove anni. 
Orbene, se, come tutte le circostanze fin qui descritte lasciano supporre, il 
naufragio succintamente ricordato da Oviedo nella sua Historia va identificato con 
quello riferito nella relazione di Juan Bautista, allora l’ultimo compagno del 
genovese dovrebbe proprio essere quel marinaio veneziano di cui parla il cronista 
spagnolo quando ci informa che egli pass su un’altra isola con un compagno, 
dove si uni ad un naufrago genovese li incontrato, finché soio il veneziano ed il 
genovese riuscirono a sopravvivere e ad essere tratti in salvo. 

Tornando ora alla relazione di “maestre” Juan Bautista, dal documento 
apprendiamo che dopo la partenza dei due naufraghi che intendevano raggiungere 
la Giamaica, il genovese ed il suo nuovo compagno allestirono piccole 
imbarcazioni servendosi di pelli di lupi marini e con esse perlustrarono a lungo, 
di isola in isola, tutto il Banco della Serrana allo scopo di cercare cose che 
potessero servire alla loro sopravvivenza. 

Stando alle informazioni che, secondo quanto egli stesso scrive, Juan 
Bautista forni pit tardi in Siviglia al “piloto mayor” della Casa de 
Contratacién'! dopo essere stato tratto in salvo e condotto in Spagna al fine di 
fare relazione della sua vicenda e della ricognizione da lui effettuata del Banco 


11 Come ho gia accennato, a quel tempo era “piloto mayor” della Casa de Contratacién |’ italiano 
Sebastiano Caboto, il quale fra le altre incombenze del suo ufficio aveva anche quella di 
aggiornare il “padr6én real” — ossia la carta generale delle scoperte effettuate — sulla base di 
mappe, schizzi ed informazioni sulle terre visitate, fornitegli da piloti e marinai. Nel 1536, e quindi 
pochi mesi prima dell’arrivo a Siviglia di “maestre” Juan Bautista, era stato specificamente 
rinnovato a Caboto I’incarico di rivedere e aggiomare il “padrén real” (Medina I, 341) al fine di 
rendere pit sicura la navigazione delle navi spagnole dirette alle Indie. Cid spiega dunque il 
perché “maestre” Juan Bautista avesse dovuto incontrarsi con il “piloto mayor” e fornirgli le 
informazioni in suo possesso circa il pericolosissimo Banco della Serrana. 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 105 


della Serrana nei lunghi anni di forzata permanenza in quel luogo, tale banco si 
estendeva per circa dodici leghe di lunghezza e tutt’intorno la profondita del fondo 
marino superava di poco la misura di un braccio. Nella zona si trovavano 
diciassette piccole isole, cinque delle quali poco pit grandi delle altre. “Maestre” 
Juan Bautista aggiunge inoltre di aver indicato a Francisco Gutiérrez, funzionario 
della Casa de Contratacién di Siviglia incaricato di costruire “cartas de marear” 
per le navi dirette alle Indie,!* i punti in cui queste sarebbero potute passare 
incolumi nel caso fossero venute a trovarsi in prossimita degli isolotti del Banco 
della Serrana. A tale riguardo egli afferma nella sua relazione che fra quelle isole 
era riuscito a localizzare soltanto tre passaggi possibili per le navi, nei quali il 
fondo raggiungeva le cinque braccia e precisa di essere ben certo di quanto da lui 
dichiarato, avendo egli effettuato pit volte, insieme al suo compagno, 
un’accurata ricognizione del fondo di detti passaggi, nei quali non aveva trovato 
relitti di navi naufragate nei paraggi. 

Desidero richiamare l’attenzione del lettore su questa accurata ricognizione 
del Banco della Serrana effettuata da “maestre” Juan Bautista e dal suo compagno 
e sulla registrazione nelle “cartas de marear” spagnole dei dati forniti dal naufrago 
genovese nel 1537, allorché giunse a Siviglia a fare relazione delle sue peripezie 
alle autorita della Casa de Contratacién, in quanto le informazioni fornite dal 
marinaio non solo risultarono indubbiamente preziose “para la guarda de las 
naos” (AGI, Patronato 18, “Relacién”),!3 ma costituiscono anche, per cosi dire, 
l’atto ufficiale di esplorazione delle isole del Banco della Serrana, le quali, da quel 
momento, per merito dell’eroico naufrago genovese sino ad oggi rimasto 
completamente ignorato negli annali delle scoperte geografiche, furono fissate 
sulle carte nautiche onde evitare ad altri marinai le terribili esperienze vissute da 
Juan Bautista e dai suoi compagni. 

Riprendendo la narrazione delle proprie vicende dopo |’interessantissima 
digressione relativa ai dati sul Banco della Serrana, “‘maestre” Juan Bautista scrive 
poi di aver soggiornato varie volte, durante la sua lunga ricognizione del banco, 
nelle isole della zona. Durante l’esplorazione di queste isole, il genovese ed il 
suo compagno si nutrivano di uova di tartarughe e della carne dei lupi marini ivi 


12 Questo Francisco Gutiérrez non compare nella copiosa documentazione raccolta da J. T. 
Medina intomo all’attivita dell’ufficio idrografico diretto da Caboto nella sua qualita di “piloto 
mayor” (Medina I, 319-55). Potrebbe comunque trattarsi di un membro della stessa famiglia di 
quel Diego Gutiérrez che proprio in quel periodo era stretto collaboratore a Siviglia di Sebastiano 
Caboto ed aveva, insieme al figlio Sancho, un’officina per la costruzione di “cartas de marear, 
agujas, regimientos, balestillas y todos instrumentos de marear asi para las Indias que para el 
Levante y el Poniente” (Medina I, 355). Oltre all’ipotesi che Francisco Gutiérrez fosse un 
familiare di Diego, non escluderei perd neppure che il naufrago genovese abbia erroneamente 
ricordato il nome di Gutiérrez come Francisco anziché Diego. 

Si noti, a questo proposito, che le navi delle “flotas de Indias” in viaggio da Cartagena 
all’Avana con i loro preziosi carichi passavano proprio in prossimita del Banco della Serrana. 
Basti ricordare che in questi paraggi fece naufragio, nel 1605, la flotta comandata da Luis de 
Cérdoba, la quale perdette quattro galeoni con 1300 uomini (Thomazi 153-54). 


106 Luigi Avonto 


cacciati, alimentazione che non differiva da quella da loro praticata nell’isola in 
cui vivevano abitualmente. I due dormivano vestiti di pelli di lupi marini e a 
volte si trattenevano per pil di un mese sugli altri isolotti senza tornare all’isola 
dove avevano fissato la loro dimora. 

Nella speranza di essere avvistati da qualche nave di passaggio, i due 
naufraghi avevano costruito, nella loro isola, due torrette di pietra a secco, senza 
cemento, rispettivamente situate nella parte nord e nella parte sud dell’isola. 
Ciascuna di esse aveva un perimetro di 16 braccia e un’altezza di 4 ed era munita 
di scale per poter salire a scrutare il mare dall’alto. In una delle due torrette 
“‘maestre” Juan Bautista ed il suo compagno avevano accatastato legna, alghe e 
sterpi per accendere il fuoco, nella speranza di essere cosi avvistati da qualche 
nave in navigazione nei paraggi. 

Oltre alle torrette, i due naufraghi costruirono anche una peschiera con 22 
braccia di parete per poter catturare pesci, utilizzando pietre estratte dal fondo 
marino, poiché, come spiega il “maestre” genovese, sull’isola non vi erano 
pietre, ma soltanto sabbia. Mediante evaporazione dell’acqua di mare contenuta 
nei fori delle pietre estratte dal fondo, i due ottenevano il sale necessario per 
condire il misero cibo che riuscivano a procurarsi e, per potersi riparare dal sole, 
dai venti e dalle intemperie, edificarono anche una capanna coperta di pelli di lupi 
marini. Con le pelli degli stessi animali, i due naufraghi confezionavano i loro 
vestiti e le coperte per i loro giacigli. Per alcuni mesi all’anno si dedicavano alla 
raccolta delle uova che le tartarughe marine depositavano nella sabbia vicino al 
mare, le quali uova, una volta seccate al sole, fornivano alimento anche per 
l’inverno. 

A volte, in mancanza d’altro, “maestre” Juan Bautista ed il suo compagno 
erano costretti ad accontentarsi della carne degli uccelli marini che riuscivano a 
catturare 0 di radici di erbe che crescevano sull’isola. Dopo tre anni di questa vita 
dal momento in cui erano partiti gli altri due naufraghi che avevano preferito 
tentare la disperata impresa di raggiungere la Giamaica, e dopo complessivi otto 
anni trascorsi sull’isola Serrana, il giorno della vigilia di S. Matteo, verso 
mezzogiorno, ossia il 20 settembre 1536, Juan Bautista ed il suo compagno 
riuscirono finalmente a scorgere una nave all’orizzonte. Pieni di speranza e di 
trepidazione, i due corsero in fretta alla torretta dove avevano accatastato la legna 
e, dopo aver acceso un fuoco e fatto abbondante fumo, videro con immensa gioia 
che dalla nave veniva calata in mare una scialuppa con a bordo alcuni uomini. 
Quando la lancia giunse a riva, il “maestre” della nave e i marinai saltarono a 
terra e, incontrati i due naufraghi miracolosamente sopravvissuti per tanti anni in 
condizioni cosi precarie, ascoltarono allibiti il racconto delle vicissitudini di Juan 
Bautista e del suo compagno. 

Come d’uso in simili circostanze, lo scrivano della nave stese una relazione 
del racconto del “maestre” genovese e, poco dopo, il veliero fece rotta verso il 
porto dell’ Avana con i due naufraghi a bordo. Juan Bautista ricorda poi che dopo 
l’arrivo della nave all’ Avana, 1’“adelantado” Don Pedro de Alvarado, che si 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 107 


trovava allora in quella citta ed era stato informato dal “maestre” del veliero 
dell’incredibile vicenda dei due naufraghi da lui tratti in salvo, volle ricevere 
personalmente i due valorosi marinai per ascoltare dalla loro viva voce il 
racconto delle loro peripezie. Dopo di che, 1’“adelantado” li mise entrambi sotto 
la propria protezione, fornendo a “maestre” Juan Bautista i mezzi per recarsi in 
Spagna a far relazione del suo naufragio e all’altro marinaio ogni aiuto per 
consentirgli di continuare a vivere nelle Indie.'4 

A conclusione della propria relazione, il “maestre” genovese scrive 
all’imperatore Carlo V di aver dimenticato di esporgli alcuni particolari della sua 
vicenda, non avendogli consentito la memoria, dopo tanti anni di sofferenze, di 
riferire con ordine la sua dura esperienza di naufrago al Banco della Serrana. Gli 
ultimi dettagli delle peripezie che Juan Bautista riferisce al sovrano sono in parte 
gia noti per essere accennati nelle pagine precedenti del documento. Cid 
nonostante, vale la pena di riferirli ugualmente ad ulteriore precisazione di quanto 
da lui gia riferito e per il fatto che alcuni di essi costituiscono un’aggiunta del 
tutto nuova rispetto a quanto precedentemente narrato. 

Scrive dunque il “maestre” genovese all’imperatore che cid che 
maggiormente affliggeva sia lui che il suo compagno durante le notti trascorse 
sulle isole del Banco della Serrana, erano i morsi dei granchi e di altri crostacei. 
Per evitare tale inconveniente durante il sonno, i due naufraghi si erano 
confezionati sacchi di pelli di lupi marini nei quali poter dormire senza tale 
tormento. Sovente essi erano pero costretti a dormire durante il giorno e a 
vegliare durante la notte per pescare. Molte volte, non potendo avere acqua da 
bere per due o tre giorni consecutivi, i due infelici non avevano neppure la forza 
di scambiare qualche parola fra di loro e si appartavano, ciascuno nel proprio 
angolo, pregando in silenzio Iddio affinché li soccorresse. 

Non dobbiamo quindi stupirci se, in condizioni cosi disperate, 1 due 
naufraghi, fiaccati dalla sete, dal sole, dalle intemperie e dalla quotidiana 
durissima fatica per procurarsi cibo, giungessero persino ad avere orrende 
allucinazioni che attribuivano alla presenza del demonio. Narra infatti il 
“maestre” genovese che un giorno, mentre stava seduto sulla spiaggia intento a 
fabbricare un amo per pescare, fu colto dalla disperazione al punto di pregare il 
demonio affinché mettesse fine alle sue indicibili sofferenze, visto che Iddio non 
voleva soccorrerlo traendolo in salvo da quel luogo deserto dove aveva ormai 
trascorso otto lunghi anni. La notte stessa, essendosi alzato per orinare, Juan 
Bautista scorse improvvisamente, contro una parete della sua misera dimora, una 
creatura mostruosa che la sua immaginazione scossa e allucinata subito identifico 
con il diavolo: 


Vilo . . . de una forma peor de la que con que le pintan, con una nariz muy roma, y 


14% quindi probabile che quest’ultimo sia poi passato in Guatemala al servizio di Pedro de 
Alvarado. 


108 Luigi Avonto 


echaba por la nariz como humo y por los ojos fuego, y los pies como grifo, y las 
colas como de murcielagos, y las piernas propias de hombre, y los cabellos muy 
negros, con dos cuernos no muy grandes. 

(AGI, Patronato 18, “Relacién’’) 


Dopo aver svegliato il suo compagno, Juan Bautista percorse con lui tutta 
l’isola munito di un crocifisso di legno per allontanare il demonio. Da quel 
momento, il diavolo non riapparve pill a nessuno dei due, anche se, a causa dello 
spavento subito, il ““maestre” genovese credette nelle notti successive, per ben 
due volte, di sentire dei passi in prossimita della capanna in cui riposava. 

Juan Bautista riferisce quindi a Carlo V come traeva sostentamento dalle 
uova delle tartarughe marine trovate sull’isola. Egli scrive che l’albume di queste 
uova, una volta che esse erano tenute sotto terra per qualche tempo, si 
trasformava in acqua, consentendo cosi ai due naufraghi di avere di che placare un 
po’ la sete per cinque mesi l’anno.!° Altra acqua veniva raccolta, quando pioveva, 
in pelli di lupi marini collocate su buche scavate nel terreno e in conchiglie di 
molluschi. Quando vi era burrasca e non si poteva pescare, i due infelici 
catturavano alcuni dei numerosi uccelli marini che venivano all’isola, 
strappavano loro dal becco il pesce che portavano ai piccoli e, in mancanza 
d’altro, mangiavano anche la carne assai poco appetibile di tali uccelli. 

Per due mesi l’anno, aprile e maggio, “maestre” Juan Bautista ed il suo 
compagno raccoglievano uova di tartaruga, le lavavano e le facevano seccare al 
sole, riuscendo cosi a conservare il prezioso alimento per i sette mesi coincidenti 
con la brutta stagione, che il genovese definisce nella sua relazione come 
inverno.!® 


15 Come si desume dalla narrazione di “maestre” Juan Bautista, il clima dell’isola e del Banco 
della Serrana era caratterizzato da circa cinque mesi molto soleggiati, senza piogge, e da altri 
sette di brutta stagione, con piogge pil frequenti e forti burrasche. Durante i cinque mesi pit 
secchi, il marinaio genovese ed il suo compagno, non potendo disporre di acqua piovana, erano 
pertanto costretti a placare la loro sete con l’albume contenuto nelle uova delle tartarughe marine 
o con l’acqua salmastra attinta dai pozzi da loro scavati nell’isola, mescolata a sangue di lupi 
marini. (Sul clima della zona, si veda anche la nota successiva.) 

Per quanto riguarda il clima del Banco della Serrana, va osservato che tali isole si trovano nella 
zona nord dei tropici americani, caratterizzata da una scarsa variazione stagionale di temperatura, 
da un marcato contrasto stagionale di piogge e da un brusco flusso dei venti. Gli alisei soffiano 
dall’ Atlantico verso ovest, investendo le isole al largo del continente, e spingono le acque del Mar 
dei Caraibi contro le coste centroamericane. Fu appunto in tale zona della corrente degli alisei che 
gli spagnoli fecero le loro prime esperienze di vita ai tropici. Come scrive C. O. Sauer 
(Descubrimiento 19), essi non soffrivano troppo né il caldo né il freddo, poiché le temperature 
estreme sono mitigate, nella zona caribica, dal libero movimento delle masse d’aria e quando il 
sole @ pili alto piove. Cid nonostante, siccome gli spagnoli e gli europei originari dell’area 
mediterranea provenivano da paesi in cui piove in invemo, essi chiamarono inverno la stagione 
delle piogge nelle terre situate nel Mar dei Caraibi, sebbene, secondo il calendario, tale stagione 
coincida con l’estate e l’autunno europei. Sarebbe dunque pit appropriato definire il contrasto 
stagionale nei Caraibi come stagione secca e stagione delle piogge. Tenendo presenti queste 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 109 


Molte notti i due vegliavano nella peschiera di pietra che avevano costruito 
con grande fatica e pescavano i pesci che vi entravano. Nel mese di gennaio, 
quando le femmine dei lupi marini venivano a partorire sulla spiaggia, 1 due 
naufraghi uccidevano i piccoli per procurarsi carne meno indigesta di quella degli 
animali adulti e, servendosi di grosse conchiglie, estraevano inoltre dai loro 
stomaci il latte appena succhiato, lo facevano quindi bollire nelle conchiglie 
stesse e lo bevevano per quanto acido fosse. Le pelli dei lupi marini uccisi 
venivano messe a mollo per qualche giorno per poterle meglio pelare e, una 
volta seccate al sole, venivano utilizzate dai due naufraghi per confezionarsi gli 
abiti. 

Il ‘“‘maestre” genovese conclude la sua avvincente e commovente relazione 
all’imperatore, ricordando che durante tutto il tempo in cui egli soggiorno alla 
Serrana cadde gravemente infermo per due volte, entrambe nel mese di agosto, e 
che in tali occasioni dovette da solo praticarsi salassi di sangue.!” 

Tempra solidissima, dunque, quella dell’eroico Juan Bautista, e non solo dal 
punto di vista fisico. Lungi dal chiedere favori al sovrano come compensazione 
della dura esistenza di naufrago che era stato costretto a condurre per oltre otto 
anni nelle lontane isole deserte del Banco della Serrana — favori che non pochi 
suoi contemporanei erano soliti richiedere per molto meno — il “maestre” 
genovese si preoccupa infatti soltanto di mettere la propria esperienza al servizio 
dei marinai che dovessero per disavventura trovarsi un giorno nelle sue stesse 
condizioni, offrendo loro un vero e proprio manuale di sopravvivenza basato 
sull’esperienza vissuta e sollecitando al tempo stesso le autorita della Casa de 
Contratacion di Siviglia a prendere buona nota delle informazioni da lui fornite 
affinché altre navi non debbano subire la sorte di quella con cui egli fece 
naufragio in quello sperduto angolo del Mar dei Caraibi. 

Esaurito il compito di far conoscere al lettore quella che ritengo debba essere 
considerata come la fonte del progettato capitolo XIV del libro L dell’ Historia di 
Oviedo, desidero avvertire, a conclusione del presente studio, che l’interesse che 
riveste la relazione di questo autentico Robinson Crusoe genovese del 
Cinquecento non si limita soltanto allo stretto rapporto che il documento sembra 





considerazioni, si comprende pertanto chiaramente la ragione per cui “maestre” Juan Bautista 
definisce come inverno i sette mesi in cui erano pi frequenti le piogge e i forti venti. Il brusco 
cambiamento stagionale doveva verificarsi, all’isola Serrana, intomo al mese di giugno, mese 
durante il quale la nave con cui fece naufragio il “maestre” genovese fu appunto investita da una 
terribile tempesta di vari giorni in pieno Mar dei Caraibi, andando poi ad infrangersi sui 
pericolosissimi banchi in prossimita della citata isola. Cid pare del resto confermato dal fatto stesso 
che nella sua relazione Juan Bautista scrive che egli ed il suo compagno si dedicavano per due 
mesi all’anno, ossia aprile e maggio, a raccogliere uova di tartaruga e a farle seccare al sole al 
fine di poterne conservare il prezioso alimento per i sette mesi coincidenti con la brutta stagione. 

Il salasso consisteva nel praticare un’incisione in corrispondenza di qualche vaso sanguigno di 
una certa importanza affinché l’infermo perdesse sangue in quantita sufficiente a rendere 
quest’ultimo meno denso. Anticamente si riteneva infatti che il salasso potesse liberare l’ammalato 
dai “cattivi umori” che avevano provocato |’infermita di cui soffriva. 


110 Luigi Avonto 


avere con la vicenda dei due marinai italiani alla quale accenna il celebre cronista 
delle Indie nella parte della sua opera dedicata agli “Infortunios e naufragios”. La 
relazione del genovese Juan Bautista dovette infatti certamente confluire, sebbene 
di seconda mano, attraverso la tradizione orale, e con conseguente alterazione di 
taluni dettagli, anche in un capitolo dell’opera di un altro grande cronista delle 
Indie della generazione successiva a quella cui appartenne Oviedo: mi riferisco ai 
Comentarios Reales dell’Inca Garcilaso de la Vega, il quale, nel capitolo VII del 
libro I della sua opera, dedicato alla spiegazione dell’origine dei nomi nuovi 
attribuiti a diverse terre ed isole americane, ricorda appunto |’isola Serrana, 
affermando che tale nome le derivo da un certo Pedro Serrano, un marinaio 
spagnolo che fece naufragio in quei paraggi e la cui vicenda, come meglio si 
vedra fra poco, presenta fortissime analogie con quella del marinaio genovese 
autore della relazione che gia conosciamo: 


La isla Serrana que esta en el viaje de Cartagena a La Habana, se llamo asi por un 
espafiol llamado Pedro Serrano, cuyo navio se perdié cerca de ella, y él solo escapé 
nadando, que era grandisimo nadador, y llegé a aquella isla, que es despoblada, 
inhabitable, sin agua ni lefia, donde vivid siete afios con industria y buena mafia que 
tuvo para tener lefia y agua y sacar fuego . . ., de cuyo nombre Ilamaron la Serrana 
aquella isla y Serranilla a otra parte que esta cerca de ella, por diferenciar la una de la 
otra. 

(Comentarios Reales 21-22) 


Dopo aver definito la vicenda qui succintamente esposta come “un caso historial 
de grande admiraci6n” (Comentarios Reales 21) — parole che richiamano 
inevitabilmente alla mente il “caso admirable” accennato da Oviedo negli 
“Infortunios e naufragios” della sua Historia — Garcilaso aggiunge di ritenere 
forse opportuno parlarne pit diffusamente in altra parte della sua opera, ed infatti 
egli dedica poco dopo quasi tutto il successivo capitolo VIII alla narrazione del 
naufragio del marinaio spagnolo e del suo lungo soggiorno all’isola Serrana, fino 
al momento in cui fu tratto in salvo da una nave di passaggio. Ma vediamo 
rapidamente i momenti fondamentali della vicenda narrata dall’Inca Garcilaso al 
fine di poterli confrontare con quelli corrispondenti della relazione del marinaio 
genovese sopra illustrata. 

Scrive Garcilaso che Pedro Serrano, dopo aver trascorso la prima notte 
sull’isola disperandosi per la propria sorte, il mattino seguente si mise alla 
ricerca di cibo, ma, non disponendo di fuoco, fu costretto per qualche tempo a 
mangiare granchi, molluschi ed altri animali crudi, finché si accorse della 
presenza di tartarughe marine che venivano all’isola a deporre le loro uova. 
Servendosi del coltello che abitualmente portava con sé, il marinaio poté 
ucciderne molte e dissetarsi con il loro sangue in mancanza d’acqua. Egli fece 
quindi seccare al sole la carne di questi animali per poterla mangiare ed utilizzo 1 
loro grandi scudi come recipienti per raccogliere acqua nel caso fosse piovuto. 

I] naufrago riusci cosi a sopravvivere per qualche tempo, fino a quando poté 


Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 111 


risolvere il problema di procurarsi il fuoco con cui cucinare e fare segnali alle 
navi che fossero venute a trovarsi nei paraggi dell’isola. Egli si mise pertanto 
alla ricerca di qualche ciottolo che potesse servire da pietra focaia e penso di poter 
utilizzare come acciarino il suo stesso coltello. Non riuscendo a trovare alcun 
ciottolo sull’isola poiché in essa non vi era che “arena muerta” (Comentarios 
Reales 24), Pedro Serrano si mise allora a cercare nel fondo del mare. Si immerse 
sott’acqua varie volte e finalmente, dopo accurate ricerche, riusci a trovare alcuni 
sassi che fecero al caso. Sminuzzo accuratamente un pezzo della propria camicia 
per utilizzarlo come esca e, sfregando con pazienza il coltello sui ciottoli, riusci 
finalmente ad ottenere il tanto desiderato fuoco che vigild sempre con cura 
affinché non si spegnesse. 

Il naufrago alimentava il fuoco con sterpi, alghe e legni portati dal mare e 
costrui inoltre una capanna, utilizzando gli scudi delle tartarughe marine uccise, 
per riparare il prezioso fuoco dalla pioggia e dalle intemperie. 

Egli trascorse cosi tre anni, finché un giorno scorse un uomo sull’isola, il 
quale aveva fatto naufragio qualche tempo prima con un’altra nave che era stata 
sbattuta dal maltempo in quei paraggi. Costui aveva avvistato il fuoco di Pedro 
Serrano e, sostenendosi con un relitto della nave affondata, era riuscito a raggiun- 
gere l’isola Serrana. 

Alla vista del nuovo venuto, Serrano immagino che costui fosse 11 demonio 
che veniva in figura di uomo per indurlo alla disperazione, mentre 1’altro 
naufrago, atterrito dall’aspetto animalesco di Pedro, in quanto quest’ultimo era 
coperto di lunghi capelli e barba incolta non avendo mai potuto radersi, 
immagino anch’egli di trovarsi di fronte al demonio. I due fuggirono pertanto in 
direzioni opposte, ciascuno implorando Iddio. Solo allora i due poveri naufraghi 
compresero di essere entrambi esseri umani e si abbracciarono piangendo per la 
grande emozione. 

Serrano accolse pertanto il nuovo venuto e¢ lo rifocilld come meglio poté e i 
due vissero insieme per altri quattro anni sull’isola ripartendosi i compiti 
indispensabili alla loro sopravvivenza, quali la caccia e la pesca per procurarsi 
cibo e la ricerca di sterpi, alghe e rottami portati dal mare con cui alimentare il 
fuoco. 

Durante tutto quel tempo passarono nella zona alcune navi, ma i segnali dei 
due poveri naufraghi non poterono essere avvistati 0 perché i velieri si ttovavano 
troppo lontani dall’isola, o perché evitavano di avvicinarsi alle sue 
pericolosissime acque. Finalmente un giorno una nave di passaggio in 
prossimita dell’isola poté avvistare i segnali di fumo dei due naufraghi ed il 
capitano ordino pertanto di calare in mare una scialuppa per raccoglierli. 

Pedro Serrano ed il suo compagno furono cosi tratti in salvo e condotti in 
Spagna, ma soltanto Pedro vi giunse vivo poiché 1’altro naufrago mori durante la 
navigazione a causa degli stenti a lungo patiti all’isola Serrana. Dalla Spagna, 
Pedro Serrano passo in Germania, ove si trovava allora l’imperatore Carlo V, e 
poté personalmente riferire al sovrano le sue disavventure. 


Pi? Luigi Avonto 


Commossi dal racconto della durissima esistenza da lui vissuta nei lunghi 
anni trascorsi sull’isola deserta, alcuni gentiluomini misero il Serrano sotto la 
loro protezione e lo aiutarono economicamente e lo stesso sovrano volle 
concedergli una rendita di 4000 pesos, che il povero Pedro non riusci pero a 
godersi, dal momento che poco tempo dopo aver fatto ritorno nelle Indie, ove 
intendeva stabilirsi, mori nella citta di Panama. A conclusione del proprio 
racconto, Garcilaso dichiara di aver appreso le peripezie dei due naufraghi da un 
cavaliere di nome Garci Sanchez de Figueroa, il quale aveva avuto occasione di 
conoscere personalmente Pedro Serrano e di ascoltare dalla sua viva voce la 
terribile vicenda da lui vissuta. 

Come si potra agevolmente notare da un rapido raffronto fra la relazione del 
marinaio genovese ed il racconto dell’Inca Garcilaso, le due storie non solo 
presentano una sorprendente analogia di fondo, ma persino taluni dettagli 
secondari in esse contenuti concorrono a suggerire l’impressione dell’ esistenza di 
un rapporto tutt’altro che casuale fra il documento storico e l’episodio riferito da 
Garcilaso nei suoi Comentarios Reales. Identica é infatti in entrambi la 
caratterizzazione del protagonista come eccellente nuotatore, praticamente identici 
gli espedienti cui ricorrono il genovese Juan Bautista e lo spagnolo Pedro 
Serrano per procurarsi cibo, acqua e fuoco, quasi uguale la durata del forzato 
soggiorno del genovese all’isola Serrana e quella della permanenza del marinaio 
spagnolo in quello stesso luogo. Identiche, inoltre, le caratteristiche fisiche 
dell’isola in cui essi vissero, assai simili le circostanze in cui avvenne |’incontro 
dei naufraghi alla Serrana, parimenti presente, in entrambi i testi, il riferimento 
allo spavento provato dai due infelici allorché ritennero di trovarsi in presenza del 
demonio; coincidente, infine, persino il momento storico in cui si collocano le 
due storie, dal momento che sia il genovese Juan Bautista che lo spagnolo Pedro 
Serrano tornarono in Europa a fare relazione delle loro esperienze all’imperatore 
Carlo V. 

Non mancano tuttavia, nell’episodio narrato dall’Inca Garcilaso, alcuni 
dettagli che appaiono distorti rispetto a quelli che ci vengono presentati dal 
genovese Juan Bautista nella sua relazione, ma l’impressione generale che si 
ricava dalla lettura del capitolo di Garcilaso @ comunque quella di trovarci di 
fronte ad una variazione sul tema con la trasformazione del genovese Juan 
Bautista nello spagnolo Pedro Serrano, trasformazione che serve all’autore dei 
Comentarios Reales allo scopo di fornire una spiegazione plausibile dell’ origine 
dei nomi nuovi di Serrana e Serranilla. 

Se, in alternativa, poniamo invece mente al titolo del progettato capitolo 
dell’Historia di Oviedo e lo confrontiamo con la relazione del “maestre” 
genovese, dal breve accenno del cronista delle Indie alla vicenda ricaviamo 
l’impressione che quest’ ultimo intendesse attenersi fedelmente al racconto del 
marinaio genovese, che con ogni probabilita egli conosceva, dal momento che 
nella sua qualita di cronista delle Indie, residente a Santo Domingo come 
“alcaide” della locale fortezza, Oviedo aveva certamente accesso a varie carte 





Un Robinson Crusoe genovese del Cinquecento 113 


depositate presso l’Audiencia di quella citta, fra le quali non é azzardato ritenere 
potesse trovarsi un resoconto della vicenda di Juan Bautista e del suo compagno. 
Basti ricordare, a questo proposito, che lo stesso “maestre” genovese afferma che 
lo scrivano della nave che trasse in salvo e porto all’Avana lui ed il suo 
compagno, stese una relazione della vicenda dei due naufraghi, relazione che, 
com’era abituale in casi simili, dovette poi essere quasi certamente trasmessa 
all’Audiencia di Santo Domingo. 

La lettura del capitolo dei Comentarios Reales sembra pertanto confermare, 
per quanto concerne la storiografia dell’ Inca Garcilaso, un dato di fatto che é stato 
giustamente messo in rilievo da taluni studiosi della sua opera e particolarmente 
da recenti indagini di Carmen de Mora. Sottolinea al riguardo questa studiosa che 
cid che distingue quella di Garcilaso da altre cronache, é che il suo autore non fu 
testimone o contemporaneo dei fatti narrati, come lo fu, ad esempio, Oviedo. 
Fattore, questo, che se dal punto di vista storico potrebbe rappresentare un 
ostacolo per la credibilita del discorso, “potenzia, in cambio, incredibilmente la 
liberta creativa e immaginativa dell’autore, il quale dovra coprire con la scrittura 
il vuoto del non visto e del non vissuto” (Mora 38). Cid non significa che egli 
inventi i fatti, ma si tratta, al contrario, di un potenziamento artistico dei dati 
storici che costituisce ancor oggi il fascino pit intimo dell’ opera di Garcilaso. 


Istituto Italiano di Cultura, Montevideo 


Opere citate 


AGI (Archivo General de Indias), Siviglia, Patronato 18, Ms. Relacién de lo que hizo 
maestre Juan en los ocho anos que estuvo en la ysla de la Serrana, anno 1537. 
Almagia Roberto, Gli italiani primi esploratori dell'America, Roma, Libreria dello 

Stato, 1937. 

Avonto Luigi, J compagni italiani di Magellano. Con un'appendice sul “Roteiro” di 
un pilota genovese, Montevideo, ed. E] Galedn, 1992. 

Boscolo Alberto, Gli insediamenti genovesi nel Sud della Spagna all’epoca di 
Cristoforo Colombo. In A. Boscolo-F.Giunta, Saggi sull’eta colombiana, 
Milano, Cisalpino-Goliardica, 1982. 

Cappelli A., Cronologia, cronografia e calendario perpetuo, Milano, Hoepli, 1978 
(2a ed.). 

Coleccién de documentos ineditos relativos al descubrimiento, conquista y 
colonizacion de las posesiones espanolas en America y Oceania, a cura di Luis 
Torres de Mendoza, tomo 10, Madrid, 1868. 

Gandia Enrique de, Los primeros italianos en el Rio de la Plata y otros estudios 
historicos, Buenos Aires, Libreria A. Garcia Santos, 1932. 

Martinez José Luis. Pasajeros de Indias, Madrid, Alianza Editorial, 1983. 

Medina José Toribio, El veneciano Sebastian Caboto al servicio de Esparia, 2 voll., 


114 Luigi Avonto 


tomo I (texto), Santiago de Chile, Imprenta Universitaria, 1908. 

Mora Carmen de, /ntroduzione a El Inca Garcilaso. La Florida, Madrid, Alianza 
Editorial, 1988. 

Oviedo Gonzalo Fernandez de, Historia General y Natural de las Indias, lib. L, cap. 
XIV, in “Biblioteca de autores espafioles", tomo CXXI, a cura di J. Pérez de 
Tudela Bueso, Madrid, Atlas, 1959. 

Sauer Carl Ortwin, Descubrimiento y dominacién espafola del Caribe, trad. spagnola, 
Mexico, Fondo de Cultura Econémica, 1984. 

Thomazi Augusto, Las flotas del oro. Historia de los galeones de Espafia, trad. 
spagnola, Madrid, Editorial Swan, 1985. 

Vazquez Carrizosa Alfredo, Quitasueno, Roncador, Serrana. Antecedentes histéricos y 
juridicos del Tratado entre la Republica de Colombia y los Estados Unidos del 8 
de Septiembre de 1972, Bogota, Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, 1974. 

Vega Inca Garcilaso de la, Comentarios Reales de los Incas, 2 voll., a cura di A. Miré 
Quesada, tomo I, lib. I, cap. VII e VIII, Caracas, Biblioteca Ayacucho, 1976. 


New Vico Studies 


An International yearbook devoted to the study of the thought of 
Giambattista Vico and of its affinities with contemporary thought 


Editors: Giorgio Tagliacozzo and Donald Phillip Verene 








Volume 9 (1991) oe 

ARTICLES Pays ih igs «Me 
Parlare cantando: Language Singing in Vico and Herder Jirgen Trabant 
Three Explorations of the Relation between Politics and 

Myth: Vico, Cassirer, and Blumenberg Peter Behrenberg 
The Centrality of the Aesthetic in Vico and Nietzche David M. Parry 
SELECTED REVIEWS 
Vattimo’s “Weak” Thought and Vico’s “New” Science 

[Gianni Vattimo. The End of Modernity} Hayden White 
John D. Schaeffer. Sensus communis: Vico, Rhetoric 

and the Limits of Relativism Nancy S. Struever 


(Cosmopolis: Three Reviews) 
Between the vita activa and the vita contemplatioa: Toulmin’s 


Cosmopolis and the Return to (some) Vichian Concepts Edmond E. Jacobitti 
Stephen Toulmin. Cosmopolis: The Hidden Agenda of Modernity Patrick H. Hutton 
A Vichian Practical Philosophy? Toulmin’s Cosmopolis Massimo Cellerino 

Vico and Rorty [Richard Rorty. Contingency, Irony, and Solidarity] John D. Schaeffer 
Arnaldo Momigliano. The Classical Foundations of Modern Historiography Carl Page 
Bollettino del Centro di Studi Vichiani 20 (1990), ed. Giuseppe Giarrizzo 

and Fulvio Tessitore Gustavo Costa 
Giambattista Vico. Opere, ed. Andrea Battistini Gustavo Costa 
Giambattista Vico. Institutiones Oratoriae, ed. Giuliano Crifd Gustavo Costa 
Corinna Del Greco Lobner. James joyce’s Italian Connection Mary T. Reynolds 
On Danesi’s “Vico and Chomsky” Hwa Yol Jung 


BIBLIOGRAPHY SUPPLEMENT 1984-1991 (approximately 1650 items) 


ATTENTION! We have reprinted (Xerox technique) several issues of NEW 
Special Offer VICO STUDIES which have been out of print for some time. We 


can now supply any of them to libraries and individuals whose 
collections, of permanént value, are incomplete. The price of any of the 1983-1990 issues 
is $8.50 (U.S. Postage mcluded. Add $3.50 each foreign surface mail or $650 air mail). 





SUBSCRIPTIONS: 


Volume 9 (1991) Pre-publication price $31.95; after 1 October 1992, $39.95. 
(U.S. Postage nduded. Add $3.30 foreign surface mail or $6.50 atr mail). 


Please order from Humanities Press international, imc, Atlantic Highlands, N.J. 07716 or call (908) 872-1441; Fax (908) 872-717 


LIBRARIES:ISSN 0733-9642 ISBNO-391 —03697-1 FAXON 130901 EBSCO 629-023-201 


Andrea Battistini 


“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!”’: 
due esploratori a confronto nell’immaginario barocco 





Ancora oggi, a distanza di tre secoli, la pubblicazione del Sidereus Nuncius di 
Galileo, avvenuta nel marzo del 1610, viene unanimemente considerata un 
evento che ha segnato una svolta epocale, destinato a far riflettere e a incidere 
durevolmente non solo sulla storia del pensiero scientifico, ma anche su letterati 
e artisti. Il suo regesto delle scoperte astronomiche conseguite con il 
cannocchiale cred, sia presso gli intendenti sia presso la gente comune, 
un’atmosfera febbrile di aspettazioni messianiche. Nel clima di rinascita 0 di 
“rigenerazione” indotto dalla coscienza di essere all’inizio di un accrescimento 
incommensurabile di conoscenze veniva insomma alimentato, si direbbe oggi 
con le categorie antropologiche di Hans Blumenberg, il mito della terra incognita 
conseguente alla sensazione di vivere in un universo incompiuto. Con accenti 
lucreziani, l’iconografia galileiana divenne subito quella di un ardimentoso 
pioniere che “‘si spinge nei pid intimi penetrali degli astri, scrutando fenomeni 
nascosti e invisibili”,! finora trascurati dall’ umanita. L’esplicita valorizzazione, 
proclamata nel titolo completo, dei “magna, longeque admirabilia spectacula”, 
prontamente condivisa, come si é appena visto, dai primi lettori, spalancava gli 
orizzonti della “‘curiositas” e dell’empirismo, una volta di pit in opposizione alla 
“statica morfologia dell’aristotelismo, con la sua supposizione della possibilita 
di un compendio definitivo delle cose del mondo” (Blumenberg 76). Nella 
canonica e ricorrente querelle des anciens et des modernes, il Seicento poteva ora 
vantare la sua superiorita sui secoli passati, perché se questi si fregiavano “di 
haver scoperti nuovi et non pili conosciuti mondi, cosi questo presente si 
gloriara d’haver ritrovati nuovi et non pill immagginati cieli, con tanto stupore 
dell’eta a venire, che invidieranno noi che semo nati in questi avventurati tempi” 
(Galilei X, 292). Secondo un altro elogio, quello ispirato di Campanella, Galileo 
aveva quasi sprezzato “cid che si vede con gli occhi del volgo” per “penetrare”, 
con I|’aiuto di Dio, “ad invisibilia” (Galilei XI, 24). L’apertura di nuove frontiere, 
anzi la cancellazione di ogni limite, innalzava l’uomo a demiurgo della natura, 
spronandolo, nella tensione verso le terre incognite, a un impulso di opere e di 
energie. 

L’intraprendenza dello scienziato che trascese con ardimento i confini 


1 “Tu vero, Galilaee nobilissime, . . . ad intima penetralia astrica pergis, scrutans abscondita et 
invisibilia”. Lettera dell’8 luglio 1610 di Bartolomeo Schroeter a Galileo (Galilei X, 394). Nelle 
citazioni il numero romano indica il volume, la cifra araba la pagina. 


“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!”’ 117 


assegnati dalla natura all’uomo si tradusse subito nell’immaginario barocco nella 
metafora del viaggio avventuroso, secondo una simbologia del tutto istintiva, 
una volta accertato, seguendo le avvertenze di Cesare Segre, che “il viaggio come 
presa di conoscenza del mondo é un tema caro alle letterature di tutti i tempi” 
(25). L’esplorazione di Galileo, che spinse il suo sguardo di 1a da quella che 
secondo |’astronomia tolemaica costituiva la sfera del fuoco, fino a scoprire le 
macchie lunari, la vera natura della Via Lattea e i satelliti di Giove, fece pensare 
con molta naturalezza a un valico delle mitiche colonne d’Ercole, per la 
realizzazione del programma baconiano del plus ultra, sulle orme ideali di un 
altro viaggiatore, Cristoforo Colombo, che poco pit di un secolo prima aveva 
infranto gli stessi limiti aprendo al sapere nuove e insperate frontiere. Oltretutto 
il parallelismo era in piena sintonia con il gusto del tempo, sollecito nello 
stabilire costellazioni analogiche che mettessero in mostra l’ingegno. Né in 
questo caso occorrevano particolari virtuosismi, se alle colonne d’Ercole e alla 
scoperta dell’ America veniva fatto di pensare, ancora senza troppi artifici verbali, 
nella sede stilisticamente dimessa e informale della lettera privata, sia pure 
vergata da un letterato piuttosto fantasioso quale fu l’amico e biografo di Tasso, 
Giambattista Manso. Questi, a soli cinque giorni dalla comparsa del Sidereus 
Nuncius, scrivendo a Galileo in data 18 marzo 1610, coglieva prontamente 
un’equazione destinata a divenire topica, non prima di stimare a sua “somma 
ventura l’essere nato in secolo tanto felice, c’>ha prodotto nel mondo personaggio 
di cosi rare virti e singolar dottrina qual é V.S., in cui ha voluto Iddio non 
solamente unir tutti que’ doni che per adietro have sparsi ne gli altri huomini, 
ma riserbarlo etiandio, con nuovo e non pill inteso modo, allo scovrimento de’ 
nuovi cieli, e fattolo di loro nuovo Atlante”. E sull’abbrivo encomiastico 
dell’evocazione mitologica, proseguiva raffigurando Galileo mentre si spingeva 
“per vie non piu calcate da intelletto humano, quasi novello Colombo”, oltre il 
confine proibito tracciato anticamente da Tolomeo, “un altro Alcide”, dal 
momento che la sua cosmologia aveva fissato dei “termini” “oltre a’ cui non 
fosse lecito trapassare” (Galilei X, 296). 

Evidentemente non era difficile avvicinare i due fortunati esploratori, tanto 
coraggiosi da infrangere ostacoli gnoseologici radicatissimi.?, Meno scontato 
appare a prima vista l’equiparazione tra le caravelle di Colombo e il cannocchiale 
di Galileo. In realta l’impresa descritta nel Sidereus prende le movenze di un 
giornale di bordo, di un resoconto odeporico verso luoghi mai raggiunti dallo 
sguardo umano, che come per lo sbarco in America si € potuto spingere tanto 
avanti in virti delle risorse tecnologiche approntate dall’ingegno umano. II 
telescopio, al pari delle navi o della bussola, ne confermava la natura dedalea e 
fabrile, esercitata in un caso per attraversare 1’ Atlantico, nell’altro per trasvolare 
negli spazi siderali. Non per nulla Bacone, come sempre sensibile a ogni forma 


2 “Affratellati dalla scoperta d’intatte meraviglie, cosi come dall’incomprensione dei 
contemporanei” li giudica Lupi 401. 


118 Andrea Battistini 


di progresso, proprio all’indomani del 1610, in quella che é forse la sua allusione 
piu trasparente a Galileo, si complimentava in un passo della Descriptio globi 
intellectualis “con industria dei meccanici” e “con lo zelo e l’energia di certi 
uomini dotti, che poco tempo addietro, con l’aiuto di nuovi strumenti ottici, 
come usando scialuppe e piccole barche, hanno cominciato a tentare nuovi 
commerci con i fenomeni del cielo” (Bacon III, 736; trad. it. Rossi 148). Benché 
in questa occasione non venga menzionato Colombo, il riferirsi ai “nuovi 
strumenti ottici” come fossero “scialuppe e piccole barche” sottintende comunque 
la presenza del navigatore e le ragioni della sua quéte, come se chi osserva un 
oggetto lontano attraverso il cannocchiale non compisse azione diversa da chi 
intraprende un viaggio. Per dirla con il linguaggio estroso di Marzio Pieri, “‘il 
Seicento sta al telescopio, come il Novecento sta alla Nave Spaziale” (1976: 
316). 

Secondo una consolidata tradizione letteraria, il volo aereo equivale al 
navigare, come del resto le ali corrispondono ai remi (Raimondi 1970). Perfino 
uno scienziato della statura di Keplero, per altro non estraneo alle fantasie 
fantascientifiche, ebbe a confermare la propria fede copernicana paragonando il 
moto della terra a quello di un “navigium” che solca incessantemente le rotte del 
cielo per contemplare l’universo (Rossi 175). Nessuna meraviglia, allora, se 
nella sua Dissertatio cum Nuncio Sidereo, stesa a un mese di distanza 
dall’apparizione dell’“Avviso” galileiano, egli anticipava l’utopia del Somnium 
de astronomia lunari vaticinando che “non appena qualcuno avra insegnato I’ arte 
di volare, fra la nostra specie umana non mancheranno i coloni” della luna. E per 
rintuzzare le obiezioni dei pil miopi e prudenti paladini del buon senso ricordava 
come un tempo nessuno avrebbe creduto che la navigazione “vastissimi Oceani” 
sarebbe stata, grazie all’invenzione della bussola, perfino pid tranquilla e sicura 
che nello strettissimo golfo Adriatico. Pertanto, solo che siano costruite le navi 
e le vele adatte al vento celeste, “vi sara gente che non temera per sé nemmeno di 
fronte a quell’immensita” (Kepler 61). Per tutto il Cinquecento, fino ai primi 
anni del Seicento, nella letteratura dei viaggi immaginari e dei resoconti di 
luoghi utopici le avventure odeporiche avvenivano per mare e spesso, dall’ Utopia 
di Thomas More alla Citta del Sole di Campanella, per non dire della New 
Atlantis di Bacone, risentivano nella forma delle relazioni lasciate da Colombo, 
da Vespucci o da altri navigatori; dopo |’elettrizzante scalpore destato dalle 
scoperte celesti del cannocchiale si assiste al fiorire di viaggi interstellari pid 
disponibili al romanzesco.? In questa trasformazione il ricordo dell’impresa 
lontana di Colombo, lungi dall’essere dimenticata, venne anzi ridestata, dopo che 
a ridosso immediato del 1492 se ne era avuta scarsa coscienza. 

Trattandosi quasi di un archetipo, la scoperta dell’America si conserva 
nell’immaginario secentesco fungendo da ineludibile termine di paragone per le 
novita astronomiche galileiane. E poiché la sua evocazione esplica un ruolo 





3 Trousson 94, da integrare con il catalogo di Bailey 16-24. 


“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!” 119 


retorico, pud venire richiamata per argomentazioni anche opposte. In un primo 
tempo Keplero, per dimostrare la superiorita del cannocchiale con cui Galileo 
“perford” il cielo sui “tubi a due lenti messi in giro tra il volgo”, ovvero la 
differenza fra “l’esperienza oculare” e le “congetture teoriche”, ricorda 
analogamente quanto sia pill cogente “la scoperta del nuovo mondo fatta da 
Colombo” rispetto alla semplice “discussione di Tolomeo sugli antipodi” (29), 
ferma alla mera congettura indimostrata. Eppure, una trentina di pagine dopo, per 
sostenere la supremazia della contemplazione sull’azione non esita a capovolgere 
il ragionamento, chiamando di nuovo in causa Colombo e il suo alter ego 
epidittico, Vespucci, definito, con una perifrasi mitologica destinata a grande 
fortuna anche in riferimento a Galileo, “Argonauta ille Florentinus”: 


Quis enim non maioris faciat nobilitatem doctrinae astronomicae, quae, cum pedem 
extra Graeciam nunquam extulisset, tamen zonae frigidae proprietates prodidit, quam 
vel Caesaris experimentationem, qui clepsydris ad litus Britannicum noctes 
deprehendit Romanis noctibus paulo breviores . . .? Quis non celebrat Platonis 
fabulam de Atlantica, Plutarchi de insulis auricoloribus trans-Thulanis, Senecae de 
futura orbis novi detectione versiculos fatidicos, postquam tale quid ab Argonauta illo 
Florentino tandem fuit praestitum? Ipse Columbus dubium tenet lectorem suum, plus 
is ingenium admiretur novum orbem ex ventorum flatu conicientis, an fortitudinem 
tentantis ignotos fluctus immensumque oceanum et felicitatem optatis potiti. 

(Kepler 58) 


In questo caso la formazione matematica e deduttiva di Keplero lo induce a 
rivendicare 1 meriti dei teorici che fanno della speculazione pura, maggioni, nelle 
loro vaticinanti intuizioni, di quelli degli sperimentatori empirici che vogliono 
sempre toccare con mano prima di trarre qualche conclusione. E i due processi 
conoscitivi, che implicitamente sembrano voler opporre lo stesso Keplero, cui si 
dovette la previsione dell’esistenza di satelliti nel sistema solare, a Galileo, 
artefice della scoperta dei satelliti di Giove, vengono alla fine riassunti e unificati 
in Colombo, nel quale comunque si loda la supremazia dell’“‘ingenium”, che gli 
aveva fatto prevedere |’esistenza di mondi di 1a dall’ Atlantico, sulla “fortitudo”, 
che lo indusse a sfidare l’oceano per verificarli di persona. 

Le due virti messe in competizione da Keplero vennero stilisticamente 
unificate con la figura dell’endiadi da Campanella, che nel madrigale in onore di 
Colombo lo defini “audace ingegno”, di gran lunga superiore alla statura degli 
antichi, ancorché, ingiustamente, l’impresa a suo dire insignificante degli 
Argonauti usurpi la gloria dell’eroe moderno (Campanella 1962: 147-148). E 
quando nel gennaio del 1611, infiammato dalla lettura del Sidereus, egli scrisse 
una lettera calorosissima a Galileo, la sorte dell’astronomo venne subito 
assimilata a quella dell’ammiraglio delle caravelle — che oltre tutto aveva dovuto 
cedere a Vespucci l’onore di dare il suo nome alla terra scoperta — anche nei 
rischi di non ricevere dagli uomini i riconoscimenti meritati (Galilei XI, 24). 
Come in Keplero, Galileo non era ancora |’antagonista, quanto l’alleato di 


120 Andrea Battistini 


Colombo nella battaglia tra gli antichi e i moderni, nella quale per Campanella i 
secondi avevano di gran lunga la meglio. Per questo le rivelazioni del Sidereus 
venivano accolte a conforto e a integrazione della scoperta dell’ America nel 
segnare l’avvento di una nuova eta dell’oro, salutata sincretisticamente con le 
predizioni tanto di Seneca,* per altro evocate anche da Keplero, quanto 
dell’Apocalisse: “tu purgasti oculos hominum, et novum ostendis caelum, et 
novam terram in luna” (Galilei XI, 24).> 

Per una volta almeno, l’impressione di stare vivendo circostanze 
assolutamente straordinarie non é il frutto né di astratti vagheggiamenti, né di 
lodi enfatiche dettate dalla magniloquenza barocca, ma la consapevolezza, 
increspata dai brividi che l’ignoto e lo straordinario sempre producono, di una 
rivoluzione dalle conseguenze grandiose e imprevedibili. Era quindi naturale per 
Campanella sostenere nella Poética che |’“inventio . . . novi coeli et planetarum 
per Galileum amicum” fosse argomento letterario suscettibile di destare 
ammirazione pari all’“‘inventio Novi-Orbis”, giacché questa “scoperta del Nuovo 
Mondo” “‘supera tutte le imprese umane”, essendo “‘multo mirificentiorem quam 
Argonautica illa puerilis Graecorum” e addirittura “Troianorum excidium” 
(Campanella 1954: 1036-1038, 1098). Il primato della modernita, rappresentata 
dall’asse Colombo-Galileo, valeva in sede epica come in sede epistemologica, 
ove, nell’Apologia pro Galilaeo scritta nel 1616 in margine al monito del papa a 
non sostenere piu il moto della Terra, Campanella si appellava alla conferma 
colombiana dell’esistenza degli antipodi per mostrare l’errore di certi Padri della 
Chiesa che li volevano negati nella Bibbia proprio come taluni esegeti 
pretendevano a torto |’inconciliabilitaé delle tesi copernicane avallate da Galileo 
con quanto asserito nelle Sacre Scritture (Campanella 1973: 90). 

La polivalente funzione argomentativa di Colombo e l’attribuzione a lui di 
una summa di virtti anche contrastanti implicano che in Campanella, come anche 
in Bacone o in Manso o in Keplero, il richiamo al navigatore genovese a 
proposito delle scoperte astronomiche di Galileo aveva soprattutto una funzione 
esplicativa che intendeva accomunare due eroi e benefattori dell’ umanita senza la 
pretesa di stabilire per forza graduatorie di meriti. Per il pit vicino e attuale 
Galileo, la dimensione epidittica risiedeva semmai nel solo accostamento a una 
figura oramai antonomastica di grande esploratore. Quando pero, per amplificare 
la gloria dei Medici, dedicatari delle grandi scoperte del Sidereus, la vanita un 
poco esibizionistica dello scienziato lo sollecitO a pensare a una riedizione 
dell’operetta corredandola con una doviziosa antologia di “molti componimenti di 


4 Nella Medea citata da Campanella il filosofo latino aveva predetto: “venient annis / saecula 
seris, quibus Oceanus / vincula rerum laxet et ingens / pateat tellus Typhysque novos / detegat 
orbes nec sit terris / ultima Thule” (vv. 374-379). Sulla falsariga di questa profezia e di quella di 
Virgilio (Buc. IV, 34-35) saranno ricalcate quelle colombiane di Ariosto (Orlando furioso XV, 
21,1-4) e di Tasso (Gerusalemme liberata 32) e quella galileiana di Marino (Adone X, 42). 

Un’ intuizione anticipatrice di questa utopia apocalittica si troverebbe, secondo 1’ interpretazione 
personalissima ma plausibile di Sacerdoti, nell’Antony and Cleopatra di Shakespeare. 


“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!” 121 


tutti i poeti toscani” (Galilei X, 299), il confronto au pair non poteva piu bastare 
e, anche per ragioni ideologiche, si converti in una climax sempre ridondante in 
suo favore. La Musa pili corriva e pronta all’operazione encomiastica fu quella di 
Girolamo Magagnati, il quale gia in data 21 maggio 1610 aveva fatto recapitare a 
Galileo una Meditazione poetica sopra i pianeti Medicei stampata nello stesso 
anno a Venezia. La composizione, che al destinatario tutt’altro che disinteressato 
pareva scritta in “stile purgatissimo” (Galilei X, 355), offriva tra l’altro 
un’amplificatio che, partendo gia da un esempio elativo al grado massimo, 
culminava con la citazione biblica dell’ Apocalisse, sede originaria di una formula 
(“Et vidi caelum novum et terram novam”, 21, 1), alla quale di li a poco si 
sarebbe rifatto, come gia si é visto, Campanella: 


Solcar 1’Egeo, trasser di Colco il Vello 
d’Argo gli Eroi, né riportar che d’oro 
preda volgare a le Tessale arene. 
Audace spinse le superbe antenne 

il Ligure fulgor che Tifi oscura 

per le campagne lubriche e spumanti 
de l’ampie fauci d’Anfitrite ingorda 
de’ regni ondosi a |’ultime latebre; 

né riporto pill ch’altro mondo al mondo; 
ma tu solcasti, o Galileo, de 1’Etra 

gli smisurati inaccessibil camp), 

e profondato il curioso aratro 

di spirto vago entro i zaffiri eterni 
rivolvendo del ciel l’aurate zolle 
ritrovasti nov’orbi e novi lumi. 
(Vaccalluzzo 15) 


Avendo per obiettivo la celebrazione di Galileo, degli altri due termini di 
paragone non Si possono non sottolineare i limiti, consentiti dalla polisemia del 
discorso retorico. Cosi, delle eroiche gesta degli Argonauti, ripercorse 
magistralmente dalla filologia di Curtius per dimostrarne lo spessore di topos, 
non si accenna nemmeno al motivo tipicamente dantesco dello stupore di déi e 
uomini dinanzi all’audacia di chi per primo oso solcare il mare con un gesto 
carico di pathos ma Si insiste sull’aspetto sacrilego di una violazione istigata da 
un’insana brama di ricchezze. II viaggio dunque non é compiuto per soddisfare 
l’intrepida sete di conoscenza ma per conquistare il Vello d’oro, in Magagnati 
scaduto a “‘preda volgare”. Quanto a Colombo, se ne accentuano epicamente le 
difficolta, eccessive perd in proporzione ai risultati che, presentati in modo 
morfologicamente riduttivo (“né riportd pit che . . .”), appaiono omogenei a 
quanto gia é noto, come se il contributo di Colombo all’incremento del sapere 
fosse solo quantitativo. Con un vertiginoso allargamento geografico e 
mitologico, Galileo, al contrario, dopo il circoscritto “Egeo” e le claustrofobiche 


122 Andrea Battistini 


“latebre” di Anfitrite, corrispettivo muliebre di Nettuno, si espande negli 
interminati spazi di Etra, la parte piu alta e pit libera dei cieli, sede beata degli 
déi, trascendendo i confini angusti di un “mondo chiuso” che, per continuare la 
parafrasi di Alexandre Koyré, dopo il rendiconto del Sidereus si era rivelato un 
“universo infinito’’. 

Nonostante la poco felice metafora di Magagnati che, suggestionato dagli 
“smisurati inaccessibil camp”, é poi indotto a chiamare il cannocchiale “‘curioso 
aratro”, lo strumento che era subito divenuto l’oggetto metonimico della figura 
di Galileo divento in aggiunta il simbolo della leggerezza della pensosita 
(Calvino 12), del trionfo sulla costrittiva forza di gravita, tanto che chi lo 
impugnava puo oggi, dopo le terse riflessioni di Italo Calvino, considerarsi un 
antesignano del Barone di Miinchhausen, protagonista di una quéte degna di un 
cavaliere errante che annulla il peso del suo corpo per trasportarsi a volo in altri 
mondi. A vantaggio delle scoperte astronomiche intervenivano le particolari 
suggestioni dell’elemento aereo, pil alto e nobile della superficie marina, perché 
legato, insegna Mircea Eliade (127), alle figure del Messaggero divino, 
dell’Eletto, del Profeta. Il volo ascensionale traduce plasticamente i! superamento 
della condizione umana e lo sforzo archetipico di liberarsi di ogni 
condizionamento materiale, emblema di un’elevazione anche morale che abolisce 
ogni forma di pesantezza e ogni limite terreno. Se il Sidereus donava l’annunzio 
di piu moderne verita, Galileo diventava un nuovo Mercurio, di cui riproponeva 
l’agilita alacre e disinvolta del movimento, in tutto degno, per la rapidita del 
ragionamento, per la vivida fantasia negli esempi, per l’economia degli 
argomenti, di un racconto di fiabe, dove é quasi normale, avverte Propp (55), che 
l’eroe “voli attraverso I’aria”.© Per Massimo Bontempelli, il teorico del realismo 
magico e di una narrativa delegata a ricavare prospettive mitiche dalla realta del 
mondo moderno, “‘le stelle, per quanto la scienza ne abbia stabilito il luogo e 
misurata la struttura, sono rimaste la cosa pill fiabesca che l’uomo abbia a 
propria disposizione” (230). Il viaggio mentale dello scienziato perd non si perde 
nel sogno e nell’elemento magico: i risultati sono tangibili e verificabili pur 
mantenendo integra quella leggerezza di cui non si poteva affatto vantare 
Colombo, costretto a muoversi in uno spazio dall’alto coefficiente di resistenza, 
esposto all’insidia di tempeste e di ostacoli di ogni tipo, derivatigli 
dall’opposizione di un dio come Nettuno, pil soggetto alla viscosita del suo 
regno idrico (Lichacév), al quale simbolicamente appartiene la remora, l’animale 
marino capace di immobilizzare le navi. 

Paradossalmente Galileo, che con I’individuazione delle macchie lunari e 
solari aveva smentito la gerarchizzazione degli spazi, distinti nell’antichita e nel 
Medioevo tra celesti e terrestri, sacri e profani, proibiti e accessibili (Foucault 
22-23), ottenne la supremazia su Colombo con un’argomentazione tipicamente 





® Le considerazioni di Propp sono state poi riprese da Calvino 28-29 nel suo saggio sulla 
leggerezza. 





“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!” 123 


aristotelica, nel senso che, per ricorrere alle parole di un suo corrispondente, con 
le sue scoperte “la memoria de’ Colombi et de’ Vespucci” apparve “rinovata” 
“tanto pil nobilmente, quant’é pit degno il cielo che la terra” (Galilei XI, 66). Il 
telescopio aveva fatto vedere che i cieli non erano affatto inalterabili e perenni, 
incorruttibili perché costituiti di etere, una quintessenza solida, cristallina, 
trasparente, del tutto diversa dalla Terra, sede di ogni metamorfosi, della nascita e 
della morte, della formazione e della distruzione. Eppure questa sconsacrazione 
teoretica dello spazio, con cui l’intero universo veniva esposto alla corruzione e 
alla contingenza del fenomenico, era taciuta in sede encomiastica, per ribadire con 
la vecchia fisica della scolastica l’aristocratica perfezione dei territori siderali 
attraversati dallo sguardo sereno e “curioso” di Galileo. 

La “curiosita” di cui Magagnati dota le operazioni investigative del 
cannocchiale si spoglia delle censure tradizionali e moralistiche perché, verificata 
a posteriori con la novellina dell’indagatore di suoni racchiusa nel Saggiatore, 
essa viene a definire, ha scritto un interprete acuto e lungimirante com’é sua 
abitudine, “la condizione originaria dello spirito scientifico, l’inquietudine festosa 
e vitale che sgorga dallo stupore dinanzi al nuovo” (Raimondi 1990: 23), 
perseguito senza un secondo fine, sia esso la superbia della hybris, sia esso il 
tornaconto venale imputato alla spedizione degli Argonauti. Le conquiste 
conoscitive del Sidereus sono epiche perché incarnano il principio dell’avventura 
sorretta dall’ideale aristocratico della fama, proprio mentre dell’avventura di 
Colombo, dopo la dimensione eroica e provvidenzialistica attruibuitagli da 
Tasso, si tendeva a vedere piuttosto la stessa cifra mercantile e borghese, 
prevaricatrice e violenta, gia ascritta da Magagnati alla nave capeggiata da 
Giasone. Basterebbe in proposito la demistificazione dei viaggi marittimi 
compiuta nel Seicento nel Paradise Lost, ove Milton, facendone protagonista 
Satana, disonora ogni loro velleita di eroismo puro con la mira affaristica di 
accumulare ricchezze (Quint). 

Nei racconti epici una componente essenziale erano le prove cui doveva 
sottoporsi l’eroe per mostrare il proprio valore. Le sue peregrinazioni erano per 
questo una parte costitutiva della vicenda, perché davano modo di indugiare sulle 
azioni valorose del protagonista (Gove 176). E la navigazione di Colombo, 
costellata di pericoli e di travagli, aveva costruito l’ethos del comandante 
intrepido che nella sua sfida alle tempeste dell’oceano aveva messo a repentaglio 
la vita propria e dei compagni, aprendo poi la via alle violenze di una cruenta 
guerra coloniale. Appunto sugli ostacoli materiali di un cammino difficile 
insisteva Campanella (1954: 1128) nel suo schema epico colombiano, che 
avrebbe dovuto descrivere “quae contigerunt a sociis in via, et a mari, et a coelo, 
et a monstris, et ab incolis novae terrae . . ., et quidquid remorari aut festinare 
occupationem Novi Orbis potuerit”. Le prove etiche di Galileo erano invece di 
tutt’altro genere, in quanto il suo viaggio era avvenuto, attraverso il telescopio, 
sulla rotta immateriale di uno sguardo su cui non incideva né la resistenza 
dell’aria né la forza di gravita. Nell’Elogio dedicatogli da Gabriello Chiabrera 


124 Andrea Battistini 


(1834: 366) spiccava la spedita facilita con la quale lo scienziato, “quantunque 
abitator della terra, passeggia, a dirlo con parole belle di Omero, le cime eccelse 
dell’Olimpo”. Di qui, anche questa volta, lo svettare di Galileo su Colombo in 
ossequio all’opposizione topica necessita vs contingenza: 


E se per Cristoforo Colombo ogni rimbombo di lode é fioco siccome a trovatore di 
nuove terre, in qual modo degnamente loderassi il Galileo discopritore di nuove 
stelle? Per certo non porransi in paragone le cose caduche con le sempiterne. 


Non che Chiabrera, conterraneo di Colombo, finisse veramente per maltrattarne 
V’iconografia: nel dialogo // Geri il navigatore non si distingue ancora da Galileo 
per l’identico anelito a conoscere nuove verita,’ ma nel considerarlo da solo, in 
una Canzone eroica, il poeta assecondava istintivamente le ragioni epiche addotte 
da Campanella, soffermandosi con compiacimento sul fatto che lo scopritore 
dell’ America “l’Ocean corse, i turbini sostenne, / vinse le crude immagini di 
morte / poscia dell’ampio mar spenta la guerra / corse la dianzi favolosa terra” 
(Chiabrera 1974: 303, st. 6). Anziché derivare da pericoli fisici, in Galileo 
viceversa fatiche e avversita nascevano piuttosto da ostacoli epistemologici, da 
abbattere non gia con la forza fisica ma con la pazienza riflessiva di 
un’applicazione quotidiana consacrata all’eliminazione degli errori e dei 
pregiudizi, in vista di un accrescimento del sapere di cui si sarebbe giovata 
indistintamente tutta l’umanita. I] passare di Galileo “la maggior parte delle notti 
. .. pit. al sereno et al discoperto, che in camera 0 al fuoco”, secondo la sua 
stessa evocazione (Galilei X, 302), comportava sacrifici che andavano a 
vantaggio di tutti, dal momento che l’imperativo della nuova scienza era quello 
della cooperazione interpretativa, della solidarieta culturale che faceva del 
ricercatore un moderno Socrate disposto ad aprire a tutti la strada dei segreti 
dell’universo. 

Ecco allora, da questa generosa solidarieta, scaturire presso i contemporanei 
un’ulteriore ragione di superiorita, chiarita nel modo piu esplicito da un vecchio 
allievo e ammiratore di Galileo, Thomas Seggett. Questi, scozzese di nascita, 
dopo essere rimasto con lui a Padova per qualche tempo, si era trasferito a Praga, 
dove era stato raggiunto dalle sconvolgenti rivelazioni del Sidereus. Si era cosi 
messo con Keplero, che lo chiama “congerro noster” (“nostro compagno di 
svaghi”), a osservare il cielo per verificare quanto Galileo aveva scoperto. E 
quando, nel settembre 1610, Keplero termino la Narratio de observatis a se 
quatuor Iovis satellitibus erronibus,® Seggett pretese che la stampa recasse in 


7 “Se bene fosse in ogni studio attenersi alle cose fatte ed altro non procacciare, certamente le 
tante province dal Colombo scoperte sarebbero tuttavia sconosciute; né il Galileo averebbe nel 
cielo scoperto quei lumi e movimenti ai trapassati secoli non manifesti” (Chiabrera 1974: 579-580). 
Su questo desiderio di innovazione e di liberta, ripreso in forma (scherzosa, a detta di Pieri 1986: 
51-52) nel notissimo imperativo dell’ autobiografia in cui Chiabrera (1974: 521) sostiene “ch’egli 
seguia Cristoforo Colombo suo cittadino, ch’egli voleva trovar nuovo mondo, o affogare”, ha 
pagine molto partecipi Getto 137. 

Va dunque corretta l’indicazione di Vaccalluzzo 111, seguito anche da Aquilecchia 91, che 





“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!” 125 


appendice alcuni suoi epigrammi latini,? in uno dei quali compare l’esclamazione 
“Vicisti, Galilaee!” che, nel ricalcare il grido pronunciato da Giuliano |’ Apostata, 
sembra sia stata ripetuta da Keplero dopo avere confermato I’ esistenza dei satelliti 
di Giove. Propriamente la vittoria si riferiva al successo riportato sui difensori 
del paradigma geostatico di Tolomeo e di Aristotele, ma dal nostro punto di vista 
vale anche per il confronto con Colombo, istituito da Seggett nel primo dei suoi 


epigrammi: 


Quae latuere soli saeclis incognita priscis, 
magno auso in lucem protulit ante Ligur: 
accola nunc Ami, saeclis incognita cunctis, 
protulit in lucem quae latuere poli. 

Ille dedit multo vincendas sanguine terras; 
sidera at hic nulli noxia Maior uter? 
(Galilei II, 188 e X, 454) 


Dopo avere riproposto il topos della terra incognita gia osservato in Magagnati, 
nel quale Galileo prevale in quanto, con un gioco di antitesi perfettamente 
simmetriche, si accentua l’assoluta novita delle sue scoperte, la partitura 
dell’elogio passa ad analizzare i modi in cui i due esploratori avevano raggiunto i 
rispettivi traguardi. E laddove la conquista dell’ America fu cruenta e comporto le 
spedizioni militari della Spagna in una guerra di conquista, le gesta di Galileo 
erano avvenute senza alcuno spargimento di sangue, al punto da sembrare 
addirittura foriere di pace, visto che sul momento i nuovi mondi annunciati dal 
Sidereus parvero recare all’umanita un periodo di ritrovata concordia. 

Giovanni Aquilecchia (92-93), conoscitore insigne del pensiero di Giordano 
Bruno, ha creduto di rinvenire “‘l’impronta originale di un tale cliché”, risoltosi 
“nel biasimo dell’impresa colombiana per i suoi effetti cruenti e sovvertitori”, 
nella Cena de le Ceneri, stampata fin dal 1584.!° Qui perd, ove per altro manca 
naturalmente nel grumo comparativo il nome di Galileo, sostituito dallo stesso 
Bruno, la condanna di quanti “han ritrovato il modo di perturbar la pace altrui, 
violar i patrii genii de le reggioni, di confondere quel che la provida natura 
distinse . . .” (Bruno 31) ha per imputati “gli Tifi”, un soggetto che, pur non 
escludendo certo Colombo, porta in primo luogo alla ribalta gli Argonauti 
attraverso il loro timoniere e quindi rientra nel topos argomentativo che, 
frequentato gia nei tempi antichi, tra Euripide e Valerio Flacco, ha giudicato la 
nave di Argo “una minaccia per l’umanita” (Curtius 301-302, 309). 
Propriamente, l’impronta conferita da Bruno non é dunque “originale”; tuttavia, 





colloca erroneamente gli epigrammi in appendice alla precedente princeps della kepleriana 
Dissertatio cum Nuncio Sidereo, stampata fin dal maggio 1610. 
Sulle vicende, anche contrastate, della stampa di questi versi si veda il carteggio galileiano in 
Galilei X, 454 e 457. 
0 Aquilecchia é stato comunque preceduto nel rinvio da Costa 111-112. 


126 Andrea Battistini 


nell’ipotesi per altro difficilissima da provare di un suo influsso sull’epigramma 
di Seggett, il suo precedente sarebbe significativo perché nella cerchia praghese 
entro Cui agiva il verseggiatore proprio Keplero all’uscita del Sidereus aveva 
rimproverato Galileo di non avere fatto il nome del Nolano, che in questo modo 
sarebbe stato occultamente avvicinato a chi con il telescopio aveva al pari di lui 
“varcato l’aria, penetrato il cielo, discorse le stelle, trapassati gli margini del 
mondo .. .” (Bruno 33). In ogni caso, la preferenza per l’otium contemplativo e 
la parallela insofferenza per l’aggressivita dei negotia guerrieri si impose presso 
gli intellettuali secenteschi in via poligenetica, anche prescindendo dalle precoci 
pronunzie in tal senso di Bruno, trattandosi di uno stato d’animo diffuso in una 
societa spossata che, dopo gli ideali espansionistici del Rinascimento, in cui 
Machiavelli aveva esortato ad “acquistare” ii potere, mirava piuttosto, con la pit 
guardinga ragion di stato, a una politica all’insegna della prudenza e del 
ripiegamento riflessivo. 

Di fatto, il XVII secolo fu un’eta da tensioni, sofferenze, miserie indicibili. 
Nessuna sorpresa allora se 1 letterati, costretti a vivere perpetuamente tra 
contrasti e odi (si pensi solo alla terribile guerra dei Trent’anni), vagheggiassero 
per reazione un’eta di pace, inseguita con insistenza nei racconti utopici 
(Trousson 97). Non per caso perfino l’Adone, che pure é un poema epico e come 
tale destinato per la consuetudine del genere alla celebrazione delle virti guerriere, 
é dedicato a Venere, garante “di pacifico stato ozio sereno” (I, 2, 3). La sua 
“politica del disimpegno” (Pozzi 74)!! lo rende un poema di pace, mantenendosi 
coerente a questo programma anche nel confronto oramai canonico tra Colombo 
e Galileo, quasi che i due gloriosi personaggi incarnassero ancora i temi 
umanistici di una disputa delle arti in cui si fronteggiavano la professione delle 
armi e quella della scienza.!2 Ma, come spesso gli succede, Marino non inventa 
nulla, giacché l’ottava che funge da arena riscrive, sia pure con ben altra 
maestria, il Leitmotiv consolidatosi negli esercizi poetici di Magagnati e 
soprattutto di Seggett: 


Aprendo il sen del’ocean profondo, 

ma non senza periglio e senza guerra, 

il ligure argonauta al basso mondo 
scoprira novo cielo e nova terra. 

Tu del ciel, non del mar Tifi secondo, 
quanto gira spiando e quanto serra 

senza alcun rischio, ad ogni gente ascose 
scoprirai nove luci e nove cose. 

(Marino, Adone X, 45) 


11 La tesi di Pozzi @ stata ripresa da Slawinski, che vede anche in Galileo un “hero of an ‘epic 
eace’” (55). 
La ricca tipologia di questo genere trova una prima, adeguata analisi in Avellini. 


“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!” 127 


Non mette conto, in questa sede, di verificare puntualmente i debiti contratti con 
i componimenti filogalileiani apparsi nel 1610-1611, anche perché si dovrebbe 
per giunta retrocedere al sonetto mariniano su Galileo Galilei risalente forse a 
quegli anni carichi di entusiasmi scientifici e inserito dall’autore nella sua Galeria 
(I, 159), apparsa nel ’19.!3 Basta invece notare, accanto ad antitesi pil 
prevedibili (“ciel” - “mar”), l’assenza di “rischio” in Galileo, tanto pid 
rassicurante in presenza del “periglio” e della “guerra” connesse alla spedizione di 
Colombo, che gia nel sonetto era stato chiamato da Marino con il battagliero 
appellativo di “Ligustico Guerriero”. Le traversie successive toccate a Galileo 
smentirono I’illusione di una dialettica delle idee del tutto immune da pericoli. 
Forse é anzi inevitabile che ogni vero ricercatore per il solo inoltrarsi nei territori 
misteriosi dell’ignoto finisca prima o poi per incorrere in qualche “rischio”, 
rappresentato dall’invidia, dalla forza eversiva delle sue idee, dalle minacce inferte 
a interessi costituiti, perfino dai successi conseguiti, destinati con la popolarita a 
sottrargli il tempo per gli studi ulteriori. Colombo dovette solcare i marosi 
dell’ Atlantico, Galileo, trasferendosi a Firenze, si trovd subito nel mezzo di altre 
procelle non meno insidiose, quelle pronosticategli da un amico veneziano, 
scatenatesi “nel tempestoso mare della Corte”, dove i “furiosi venti della 
emulatione” lo avrebbero purtroppo “‘travagliato et inquietato” (Galilei XI, 171). 
Ma la realta non sempre coincide con i miti creati dall’immaginario collettivo. 
Se la colonizzazione delle Americhe, per la cattiva coscienza che essa recO in 
Europa, impedi di essere presa per |’avvento di una nuova eta dell’ oro, a Galileo 
venne invece assegnato nei voti di molti il ruolo pacificante di sanare “‘dissidia et 
altercationes magnas et frequentes” (Galilei XI, 394). I tempi sembravano fatti 
apposta per attese palingenetiche, alle quali gli uomini di primo Seicento erano 
indotti per reazione a una realt4 spesso tragica, facile esca per le aspirazioni, le 
speranze, le utopie consolanti. E il Sidereus Nuncius, con il fervore che aveva 
acceso, galvanizzava la speranza di tempi migliori, che ci si augurava di 
conseguire non gia con campagne militari, ma con 1’operosita, la dedizione, 
l’inquieta e mai appagata interrogazione dell’ignoto, vantaggiosa a tutta 
Vumanita. 

A farsi interprete di queste istanze fu, nello stesso anno in cui comparve 
l’Adone, un accademico linceo amico di Galileo, Francesco Stelluti, al quale si 
deve uno dei due componimenti con cui nella princeps si apriva II saggiatore. 
Qui si loda la solerzia che consenti allo “sguardo sereno” dell’infaticabile 
ricercatore di scoprire “orbi a ciascun novelli, e pria d’ogn’ altro”, talché “molto a 
te l’uom, per tali / trovati obietti, deve” (Galilei VI, 211). L’encomio delle 
pacifiche virtu intellettuali, tanto aeree da far procedere lo scienziato “spedito e 


13 Un catalogo delle presenze di Colombo nella poesia mariniana si deve a Pieri 1986: 36, che 
opportunamente mette anche in luce il carattere topico, scontato e non troppo esaltante, con cui 
“l’immaginario pubblico e poetico secentesco” affrontd l’epopea americana, ricondotta a 
“denominazione normalizzatrice” (37). 


128 Andrea Battistini 


lieve”, a riprova dell’estrema leggerezza in cui si sublimano le “lunghe fatiche”, 
“le prove”, gli “studi”, giunge alla fine di una rassegna di invenzioni e scoperte 
topiche, che spaziano con gusto manieristico dalla colomba volante costruita da 
Archita agli uccelli di rame che cantano, dagli astrolabi alla polvere da sparo, 
dagli Argonauti a Dedalo. A un catalogo cosi esemplare non poteva mancare 
Colombo, ma soltanto per degradarlo a un livello inferiore: 


Cedanti pure il vanto 

quei novi Tifi arditi, 

che glorioso han tanto 

perché scoprir mari novelli e liti; 
poi che tu non additi 

terre quaggit novelle, 

ma nel sublime ciel lucenti stelle 
(Galilei VI, 210) 


La riproposta dell’ antitesi alto-basso, giocata questa volta tra il “sublime ciel” e 
le “terre quaggit”’, significa che ormai, all’altezza del 1623, i luoghi retorici del 
confronto erano gia tutti stabiliti, e non restava che la repetitio. Superfluo allora 
seguire ancora, sempre nelle poesie inserite nel Saggiatore, un altro Linceo, 
Joannes Faber, che non diversamente ammonisce “Cedas, Vespuci, cedatque 
Columbus” (Galilei VI, 205, v. 9), per la collaudata ragione che agli antichi non 
era del tutto ignota la terra poi scoperta da Colombo, mentre Galileo é stato il 
solo a donare al “genere umano” le stelle descritte nel Sidereus. Tutt’al pit vale 
la pena di segnalare di nuovo il ruolo irenico di Galileo, allusivamente 
conferitogli con la citazione di un esametro del Virgilio pili profetico, visto che 
anche con il cannocchiale “nova progenies caelo demittitur alto” (v. 21). Ormai 
pero, si diceva, le coordinate erano saldamente fissate e nulla poteva aggiungere, 
di 1i a qualche anno, la sostituzione del nome di Vespucci a quello di Colombo, 
compiuta da poeti fiorentini indotti dalla carita del natio loco e dal loro intento 
filomediceo ad attribuire a un concittadino quanto di solito veniva concesso al 
navigatore ligure. Iacopo Cicognini, in una canzone del 1631 destinata in un 
primo tempo a essere collocata in appendice all’allora imminente Dialogo sopra i 
due massimi sistemi, esordiva proprio con il mito, doviziosamente descritto con 
vigorosi accenti epici, delle colonne poste da Ercole all’ardimento dell’ uomo, per 
poi dilungarsi sull’atto di forza con cui Vespucci abbatté quei limiti in modo da 
riportare “dagl’Indi” “palme novelle” (Vaccalluzzo 33). Sennonché quel viaggio 
marittimo manco a detta del poeta della consapevolezza scientifica che in séguito 
consegui Galileo, soltanto “di ragioni armato”, con il calcolo della longitudine 
per mezzo dell’ osservazione del moto dei satelliti di Giove: 


Quanto s’appressi ai cardini del polo 
nave al soffiar del vento 
seppe chiuso Nocchier tra i curvi Abeti, 


“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!” 129 


non seppe gia, verso l’occaso il volo 
drizzando ogni momento, 

qual punto occupi il legno in grembo a Teti. 
Aperti, ecco i segreti 

son dagli astri di Giove... 

(Vaccalluzzo 34) 


Qualche anno dopo, un altro poeta della corte dei Medici, Francesco Maria 
Gualterotti, riprendeva la metafora del volo aereo compiuto da Galileo nell’atto di 
guardare attraverso il cannocchiale, sperimentando cosi l’ossimoro di chi, “fermo 
in Ciel su l’ali”, “con felice vento / discopre Isole d’oro, e vie d’argento” 
trascorrendo “pe’ tranquilli e lieti / campi di raggi” (Vaccalluzzo 39). Non che 
l’impresa del “gran Vespucci” fosse deprezzata: come poteva essere altrimenti, 
dopo che nel 1611 il padre Raffaello aveva, prima del Mondo nuovo di Stigliani 
e dell’Oceano del Tassoni, pubblicato un “‘poema eroico” sull’ America? E perd 
significativo che appena un mese dopo I’apparizione del Sidereus il pit anziano 
dei Gualterotti intendesse, a fare da pendant al lavoro colombiano gia composto, 
dedicare, questa volta a Galileo, un altro poema “sopra il ritrovamento dele nuove 
stelle e de i quattro nuovi pianeti” (Galilei X VIII, 410). E nell’anno della sua 
morte, avvenuta nel 1639 senza che il proposito si fosse realizzato, il figlio 
Francesco Maria volle in parte adempiere alla promessa mancata almeno con la 
canzone appena citata, ove Vespucci usciva si con onore, ma ridimensionato in 
quanto, tacitamente accostato una volta di piu a Giasone, dopo che “gli déi la 
nave sua al cielo alzaro”, si domandava a Galileo, nella forma gia notata di 
climax, “a te qual chiaro e regio / daran che non sia umile e scarso fregio” 
(Vaccalluzzo 41)? 

Senza dubbio a vent’anni dalla pubblicazione trionfale del Sidereus nessuno 
si chiedeva pit come si sarebbe risolta la tenzone “di gloria” tra Galileo e 
Colombo, giusta l’alternativa affacciata nel 1610 da un corrispondente del primo 
(Galilei X, 372). Nonostante la condanna dello scienziato, il paragone giocd 
sempre a suo favore, a riprova di una fama tutt’altro che contingente, accresciuta 
e non affievolita da un tempo una volta tanto non edace. Ad assicurarne la 
vittoria erano le maggiori suggestioni archetipiche e ideologiche della sua 
impresa, meglio rispondente alle inclinazioni di un secolo che, a dirla con 
l’eccentrico Eugenio D’Ors, amo pit di ogni altro le “forme che volano”. E a 
riassumerne tutte le ragioni provvide, a meta Seicento, il Racconto istorico della 
vita di Galileo Galilei di Vincenzio Viviani, il monumento biografico tessuto 
secondo i fili propagandistici dei Medici, che vollero fare del loro scienziato un 
mito, aggirando tutte le ragioni cosmologiche di contrasto avute con la Chiesa 
(M. Segre). Fin dalla prima pagina il pit giovane degli allievi di Galileo riprende 
con tutte le argomentazioni elaborate in un trentennio di componimenti 
encomiastici l’esame contrastivo con Colombo, lasciando da parte Vespucci che, 
troppo caro al municipalismo fiorentino, non avrebbe consentito antitesi cosi 


130 Andrea Battistini 
nette: 


Vivera il Colombo con i suoi scoprimenti terrestri, assicurati da tal fondamento che 
ingombra quasi la meta della terra: ma se la navigazione per qualche mondano 
accidente fosse impedita, o per altra cagione interrotto il commercio, in pochi anni, 
obliato il fondamento, ne languirebbe la ricordanza, se pero da diligente scrittore non 
ne fosse compilato la storia. 

Grande e maravigliosa si pud sicuramente dire l’accortezza e la fortuna del signor 
Galileo, che, aiutata dal suo divino intelletto, ha incontrato fondamento celeste. Onde 
con i suoi ammirabili discoprimenti, senza tema d’esser impediti o consumati dal 
tempo, o nascosi alla vista e cognizione de’ mortali, e spiegati con la sua singolar 
sapienza, s’é procacciato fama gloriosa e durabile quanto durera ]’universo. 

(Galilei XIX, 600) 


Con simmetrie calibratissime, rivelatrici di uno scrittore padrone dei mezzi 
retorici, Viviani costruisce la dialettica delle due “vite parallele” sulla diversa 
gloria dei protagonisti, rimarcando la contingenza piu effimera della scoperta 
dell’ America, di natura “terrestre” e quindi deteriorabile, in opposizione alla sorte 
imperitura delle scoperte astronomiche, poggianti su “fondamento celeste”. Nel 
caso di Colombo le conseguenze consistono in un tricolon semanticamente 
negativo (“impedita”, “interrotto”, “obliato”) che viene ripetuto a carico di 
Galileo soltanto per essere smentito (“senza tema d’esser impediti 0 consumati . 
. . O nascosi”). E che abisso tra i patetici sforzi del “diligente scrittore” che si 
affanna a evitare che “languisca la ricordanza” dell’uno e la spavalderia della 
“singolar sapienza” garantita dal “divino intelletto” dell’altro! La contemplazione 
delle stelle, oltre che ubbidire alla condizione dello status rectus, trascendente il 
mero assetto anatomico per divenire privilegio etico e gnoseologico dell’uomo,!4 
é la via pit naturale per conseguire l’apoteosi, rappresentata per Viviani dalla 
“fama gloriosa e durabile quanto durera l’universo”. Per questo, il Virgilio della 
IV Egloga, tante volte sottinteso da quanti videro nel Sidereus il compimento di 
un’utopia di pace, aveva predetto, anticipando la Medea di Seneca gia ricordata, 
che “ci saranno ancora un altro Tifi e un’altra Argo a trasportare eroi diletti” 
(“Alter erit tum Tiphys, et altera quae vehat Argo / delectos heroas”, Buc. IV, 
34-35). Nel Seicento, Galileo fu senz’altro uno di questi. 


Universita degli Studi di Bologna 


14 “[Deus] os homini sublime dedit caelumque videre / iussit et erectos ad sidera tollere vultus”, 
recita un passo celebre di Ovidio, Metamorfosi, I, 85-86. 





“Cedat Columbus” e “Vicisti, Galilaee!”’ 131 
Opere citate 


Aquilecchia Giovanni, Da Bruno a Marino. Postilla all’ “Adone” X, 45, “Studi 
Secenteschi” XX (1979): 89-95. 

Avellini Luisa (a c. di), Sapere e/é potere. Discipline, dispute e professioni 
nell’ Universita medievale e moderna. Il caso bolognese a confronto, Atti del 4° 
convegno (Bologna, 13-15 aprile 1989), vol. I: Forme e oggetti della disputa 
delle arti, Bologna, Istituto per la Storia di Bologna, 1990. 

Bacon Francis, Works, collected and ed. J. Spedding, R. L. Ellis, D. D. Heath, 
London, Longman, 1857-1874, 14 voll. Reprint Stuttgart-bad Cannstatt, F. 
Fromann Verlag Gunther Holzboog, 1963. 

Bailey J. O., Pilgrims through Space and Time. Trends and Patterns in Scientific and 
Utopian Fiction, New York, Argus Books, 1947. 

Blumenberg Hans, “Terra incognita” e “universo incompiuto” come metafore del 
moderno atteggiamento del mondo, in Paradigmi per una metaforologia [1960], 
trad. it., Bologna, I] Mulino, 1969, cap. 5, pp. 73-85. 

Bontempelli Massimo, Galileo poeta [1943], in Introduzioni e discorsi, Milano, 
Bompiani, 1964, V ed., pp. 209-231. 

Bruno Giordano, Dialoghi italiani, con note di G. Gentile e a c. di G. Aquilecchia, 
Firenze, Sansoni, 1958, III ed. 

Calvino Italo, Lezioni americane. Sei proposte per il prossimo millennio, Milano, 
Garzanti, 1988. 

Costa Gustavo, La leggenda dei secoli d'oro nella letteratura italiana, Bari, Laterza, 
1972. 

Campanella Tommaso, Scritti letterari, a c. di L. Firpo, Milano, Mondadori, 1954. 

, La Citta del Sole e Scelta d'alcune poesie filosofiche, a c. di A. Seroni, 
Milano, Feltrinelli, 1962. 

, Apologia per Galileo, a c. di S. Femiano, Milano, Marzorati, 1973. 

Chiabrera Gabriello, Elogi di uomini illustri, in Opere, Milano, per Nicolo Bettoni, 
1834. 

, Opere, e lirici del classicismo barocco, ac. di M. Turchi, Torino, Utet, 1974 
(II ed.). 

Curtius Ernst Robert, La nave degli Argonauti [1950], in Letteratura della letteratura, a 
c. di L. Ritter Santini, Bologna, Il Mulino, 1984, pp. 301-25. 

D’Ors Eugenio, Del Barocco, trad. it., a c. di L. Anceschi, Milano, Rosa e Ballo, 
1945. 

Eliade Mircea, Mythes, réves et mystéres, Paris, Gallimard, 1957 (trad. it. Milano, 
Rusconi, 1976). 

Foucault Michel, Of Other Spaces [1984], trad. ingl., “Diacritics” XVI.1 (1986), 
22221 

Galilei Galileo, Le opere [1890-1909], nuova ristampa della edizione nazionale 
diretta da A. Favaro, Firenze, G. Barbéra, 1968, 20 voll. 

Getto Giovanni, Gabriello Chiabrera poeta barocco [1952-1953], in Barocco in prosa 
e in poesia, Milano, Rizzoli, 1969, pp. 125-162. 

Gove Philip Babcock, The Imaginary Voyage in Prose Fiction. A History of Its 
Criticism and a Guide for Its Study, with an Annotated Checklist of 215 








132 Andrea Battistini 


Imaginary Voyages from 1700 to 1800, New York, Columbia UP, 1941. 

Kepler Johannes, Dissertatio cum Nuncio Sidereo e Narratio de quattuor Iovis 
satellitibus, a c. di E. Pasoli e G. Tabarroni, Torino, Bottega d’Erasmo, 1972. 
Koyré Alexandre, Dal mondo chiuso all'universo infinito [1957], trad. it., Milano, 

Feltrinelli, 1970. 

Licha¢év, D. S., Le proprieta dinamiche dell’ ambiente nelle opere letterarie (Per 
un'impostazione del problema), in Ricerche semiotiche. Nuove tendenze delle 
scienze umane nell’Urss, ac. di J. M. Lotman e B. A. Uspenskij, ed. it. a cura di 
C. Strada Janovic, Torino, Einaudi, 1973, pp. 26-39. 

Lupi Filiberto Walter, Galilée criminalisé. Eroismi e “crisi” della cultura italiana nel 
giudizio degli oltremontani, in Novita celesti e crisi del sapere, Atti del 
convegno internazionale di studi galileiani (1983), a cura di P. Galluzzi, Firenze, 
Istituto e Museo di Storia della Scienza, 1984, pp. 399-409. 

Pieri Marzio, Per Marino, Padova, Liviana, 1976. 

, Colombo in mare baroco, una metafora abortita, in “Columbeis J”, Genova, 
Universita degli Studi di Genova, Facolta di Lettere, Istituto di Filologia Classica 
e Medievale, 1986, 27-52. 

Marino Giambattista, L’Adone, ac. di G. Pozzi, Milano, Mondadori, 1976, 2 voll. 

, La Galeria, ac. di M. Pieri, Padova, Liviana, 1979, 2 voll. 

Pozzi Giovanni, Guida alla lettura. Marino 1976, Il, pp. 11-140. 

Propp Vladimir Ja., Morfologia della fiaba, a c. di G. L. Bravo, Torino, Einaudi, 
1966. 

Quint David, La barca dell'avventura nell’ epica rinascimentale, “Intersezioni” V .3 
(1985), 467-488. 

Raimondi Ezio, Per un’immagine della Commedia, in Metafora e storia, Torino, 
Einaudi, 1970, pp. 31-37. 

, La dissimulazione romanzesca. Antropologia manzoniana, Bologna, Il 
Mulino, 1990. 

Rossi Paolo, La scienza e la filosofia dei moderni. Aspetti della rivoluzione 
scientifica, Torino, Bollati Boringhieri, 1989. 

Sacerdoti Gilberto, Nuovo cielo, nuova terra. La rivelazione copernicana di “Antonio 
e Cleopatra” di Shakespeare, Bologna, I] Mulino, 1990. 

Segre Cesare, Fuori del mondo. I modelli nella follia e nelle immagini dell'aldila, 
Torino, Einaudi, 1990. 

Segre Michael, Jn the Wake of Galileo, dattiloscritto in corso di trad. it. e di stampa, 
Bologna, Il Mulino. 

Slawinski Maurice, The Poet's Senses: G. B. Marino's Epic Poem “L'Adone” and the 
New Science, “Comparative Criticism” n. 13: 51-81. 

Trousson Raymond, Voyages aux pays de nulle part. Histoire littéraire de la pensée 
utopique, Bruxelles, Editions de 1’Université de Bruxelles, 1979, II ed. 

Vaccalluzzo Nunzio, Galileo Galilei nella poesia del suo secolo, Palermo, Sandron, 
1910. 





Ropres she He of Harevles 135 


Chives lve. 
Imorpreting De Rewbltiance as an ape at dispartéey revenls.that Buns au 
_ sxplocatios O46 expansion opened acw hepizons oo Mivezatutc ax wel! =o in 


Sui at er me ST Hie RAY 
fem eran — sir anne Si aeNN ablielieicecetl 


bier editors, capeciilly wi ite) Yoosin were. cruised by commotidasing thy 
MAB Tpit. ogR YOY * suclermig’) lo Caensetsoniup elt 70 


SURO OAT. Ras HON jqutlgs 100 Monat! ArpOo) syifiemng Jayenni @p)ioi) has 
chatimaupaee aichleW were) aah oe bageae, musmecr etme. mkII Dit fo 
pp bo ie 28 diam ppeesta lesompame opt pCa zaeh O)), tags RL NMg? 
Jongimaid me pal. 19¥ p2viloadon, hen, vdaeanop. Sra aUeSieD aes 


‘Sealer cbiy, yapelioakivan wo fuse 3 ils eit rp 
AOR aural, aIGnO. 69. 2920099 art Jo saptiiaen Leonprattl adh om 
RRO Hooke ee tah aabny cgi AQ pauliog age Ch raampR.Atrgtn 
ame eyed oH. paoriod uCMoNeste law ree ding gi af pots 
mah oe ate P A) eaonos, aos seal Jo. Macao age va. ayropgplagad 
«Rely POHL LINHA 2 oct) eth betnevns Briel ariey. ALAS Soesorkas 
RARER ORG tn, guest’) AEB FEEDS 249) fd aiae. Jn DOMARgrA EOL soa 
| es ME tds ARRAS AAAL Oi VED 49: Loney aes he a3 er 









g-2x0h yond our. od xian, aucng ho iuign Senermise 
| = bru agli maheenae ok, AO1Q2, s/ten, Api o. avsi if fight ine 
Curdena bait n atical Gricclal _oosieiicteges at seisTABEa Aue 


hy ah apt canoe Joliansh puna, 12 ‘py gurus, andy i, 
MOUASHE: te @eoed, tp, aoiishonid iit ebnin, “ibsecgeeuss. fae UR? sangls 
| ge mora og4. 2594 oT dart oak, dois, aloonath ley ZAMMIT spit, = 
SH wigrad) baw es! evushggean 2 bon, aes 44 horns SA, Oikt paoual 
APO BAM AION 2h AAG BOMBARD, 2H pity FR, aL PUFA a) 2008} 
adie, oil Oy iyi Aon ganobaagad te amet le PRA 
=e} ingen Sno Yiweioizry ylinine £ on ae & Gols wrGlgx aio1od 
rifegn Shih HASHES ork balls enmmod ort 1 4(2siiiyi2 eodamlol 

a pig “hati: Sant Io“ ees ahd citetittinivttS Asch 


A Ps SUPT, ote pais Whe ah ivnis Yd Be audi 
Aveduidnaneaby ramon: slug ; askoga. atl, oP ROLMAS saws ae Ban ape 
arcanetkpeetntian tea Ha i ri fanor ih ro tate) 
emesis ota h Hisansdo Pte fagilodiedi bedetverts® Haw yale airitl 


san Se loer). 
4 Paes wih eddies, emu 1O8)-70) on Buenuthy at © beast. ep ayeee 1 ——_______—_ 
‘end bie See RY RL AP Te Aetna te BOE Nahe ety wits YoreBG! Py” 
© rane Pewee qieles Ole s encdls dbeth miRecrial © CONE ROD Fa ppmhN yy) Gee v NED Bie HR ae RHA, 
oe ae Bee YSN eis malate Hei be net sar anew «f 
RHO cE a FIR URS A i! Unter eer Bagh pionMb rss Rl ndlsemne' | 
—— Po erates TW Sadie, 


antholoagy, de whhleh *i vel 6) Water ierllie io} rnd de ym sysets test 








‘ i“ 
i 


_David Marsh 


Beyond the Pillars of Hercules: 
Voyage and Veracity in Exploration Narratives* 


On the quincentenary of Columbus’ voyage, the uneasy relationship between fact 
and fiction in travel narrative looms large on our cultural horizons. The voyage 
of the Genoese entrepeneur opened the doors to New World to conquest and 
commerce and (to describe the equivocal change with an appropriate paradox) re- 
oriented the Occident to a new geography and geopolitics. Yet the ambiguity of 
his accomplishments is reflected in the curious mythology and symbology 
which obscure the historical realities of the Genoese navigator. Columbus’ own 
multiform name — to say nothing of his yet undeciphered “mystical” signature 
— abounds in both auspicious and inauspicious portents. His baptismal name 
Christophorus evokes both the faith of Christ borne across the waters and the 
dire destiny of indigenous populations converted by the sword, although the 
recent deconsecration of Saint Christopher strips Columbus of an onomastic 
patron and travelers in general of a divine intercessor. The navigator’s Italian 
surname Colombo might to the pious imply the grace-bringing dove of the Holy 
Spirit, but his adoptive Spanish name Colén more readily calls to mind the 
colonial enterprise he established. 

Columbus’ name further suggests a fanciful etymology linking him to 
those columns which supposedly marked the boundaries of known civilization 
— the Pillars of Hercules which the Greek hero set as the outermost limit 
between the civilization of Europe and the uncertainties beyond. (Despite its 
fanciful nature, this metaphor has been rendered concrete, in more than one 
sense, in the monumental columns of Barcelona and New York, which set the 
heroic explorer atop a pedestal, creating a saintly visionary one might dub 
Columbus Stylites.)! If the Romans called the Mediterranean mare nostrum, the 
Age of Columbus marks the navigation of maria aliena, uncharted waters 
inhabited by strange and sometimes hostile beings. Concerning the earth’s 
rotundity and circumference, the ancient Greeks had fairly precise ideas, but it 
was a later tradition of inexact geography and mystical inspiration — portentous 
hints in Pliny and Seneca read in the light of Toscanelli’s calculations — which 


"A draft of this paper was delivered at the national meeting of the Renaissance Society of 
America at Stanford University in March, 1992. 

1 While the landlocked column of Columbus Circle is dwarfed by the skyscrapers of mid- 
Manhattan, the elevator-equipped monument in Barcelona offers an appropriate panorama of the 
Mediterranean, if not the Adantic. Discussing the latter, Robert Hughes 1992, 365-67, estimates 
that there are at least sixty-four such monuments to Columbus worldwide. 








Beyond the Pillars of Hercules 135 


informed Columbus’ resolve. 

Interpreting the Renaissance as an age of discovery reveals that European 
exploration and expansion opened new horizons in literature as well as in 
geography. As the European colonizers were exporting their vernaculars to the 
New World, Old World authors were busy composing texts with new linguistic 
and literary boundaries. While Italian explorers like Columbus and Cabot, 
Verrazzano and Vespucci were sailing under foreign flags, Northern Italian 
writers and editors, especially in the Veneto, were engaged in consolidating their 
discoveries through the printed word.” 

Italian curiosity was by no means a Renaissance invention. The most 
celebrated late Medieval explorer was the Venetian merchant Marco Polo, whose 
twenty-five-year odyssey in the Orient (1271-95) might almost seem a 
realization of Tiresias’ prophecy to Odysseus of an eastward journey far from the 
ocean. In the Quattrocento, the fascination with travel narratives, especially 
those containing fantastic elements, is evident in the humanist Poggio 
Bracciolini, who translated into Latin the “fabled” books of Diodorus Siculus, 
and recorded the oriental travels of Niccold de’ Conti, a Venetian epigone of 
Marco Polo.? Then, as in other fields, the middle of the Cinquecento witnessed 
the printed consolidation and codification of travel literature. The three-volume 
anthology Navigationi et viaggi (1550-59) edited by Giovanni Battista Ramusio 
(1485-1557) assembled some seventy texts of geography and ethnography, 
including those of Diodorus Siculus, Marco Polo, and Niccoldé de’ Conti.4 

In an essay on Italian literature of travel and discovery, Giorgio Raimondo 
Cardona has noted how the practical orientation of such works sets them apart 
from the canon of imaginative literature.° In their pragmatic approach to travel, 
he suggests, the Italians are heir to the Romans, who have left virtually no 
travel literature. Yet the larger Western tradition owes a great deal to the Greeks, 
whose seafaring spirit and insatiable curiosity are reflected in numerous odysseys 
and adventure tales. Hence, the literature of exploration is often torn between 
veracious history and imaginative literature. Indeed, the interaction between truth 


2 R. A. Skelton in Ramusio 1970, p. V: “If Venice did not participate in the great discoveries, she 
remained a profoundly interested spectator, and her scholars, cartographers and printers were to 
make an unsurpassed contribution to geographical recording during the 16th century.” 
3 Ramusio 1967-70, 1:173-75 (lambulus), 1:338-46 (Conti). For Poggio’s characterization of 
Diodoms’ History 1-5 as “fabulosos ob antiquitatem temporum,” see Bracciolini 1964-69, 4:682. 
Diodorus includes material borrowed from Ctesias and Iambulus, two Greek “historians” 
impugned by Lucian (see below). 
4 Facsimile edition, Ramusio 1967-70; on Ramusio and his work, see Mazzali 1986. 

Cardona 1986, 687: “La letteratura italiana non inquadra volentieri nel suo canone i viaggi di cui 
é pure ricca; quasi che i molti dati materiali e concreti di cui essi sono necessariamente costruiti 
inquinino in qualche modo un ideale di disinteressata e disincarnata letterarieta; quasi che paesi e 
costumi ed eventi possano diventare riconosciuta provincia letteraria solo quando li marchi il segno 
dell’invenzione, del fantastico.”” Mazzali 1986, 581 finds this tension resolved in Ramusio’s 
anthology, in which “i valori letterari s’integrano con quelli scientifici.” 


136 David Marsh 


and fiction in travel accounts provides a perennially fertile domain. Renaissance 
readers were no doubt attracted to travel literature for its combination of useful 
information and delightful exoticism. For a similar mixture of technical data and 
situational novelty, the modern reader may have to turn to works of science 
fiction. For now that our terrestrial frontiers have nearly vanished, we are even 
more fascinated by tales which promise “to explore strange new worlds, to seek 
out new life, new civilizations, to boldly go where no man has gone before.”® 

Generally written in the first person, most travel narratives offer a memoir- 
like mixture of Dichtung and Wahrheit which reflects both the distortions of 
memory and the desire to please a wider audience. If two of the pragmatic 
components of travel narratives are geography and ethnography, the latter must 
clearly be given pride of place. A simple record of nautical bearings makes poor 
reading for all but the practical sailor, but tales of strange peoples and stranger 
customs have been good “box-office” since Herodotus lectured publicly in Greek 
city-states. Of course, few listeners and fewer readers will lend complete credence 
to personal recollections, and even the earliest travel narratives have often 
prompted violent and contradictory responses from their intended audience. 

If the positive side of travel narratives presents a claim to truthfulness, the 
reverse of the coin reveals the darker image of the author as liar. In Greek 
antiquity, the two “founding fathers” of Attic-Ionic poetry and prose, Homer and 
Herodotus, were repeatedly impugned as liars because their works include travel 
accounts which border on the incredible. Small wonder, since the received 
tradition depicts them both as itinerant cantastorie! Homer’s Odysseus became a 
type of the consummate liar, and Herodotus’ “inquiries” into foreign customs and 
cultures laid him open to charges of innocent gullibility or (in the case of 
Plutarch) spiteful malignity.’? As we shall see, the interpretation of Herodotus 
may serve to contrast ancient and Renaissance responses to the ambiguities of 
travel narratives. The most striking ancient response is furnished by the second- 
century Greek satirist Lucian, who treats travel narrative as a literary genre 
susceptible of analysis through parody. By contrast, Renaissance travelers and 
scholars regard travel narratives, more optimistically, as a branch of historical 
science, and a re-examination of travel narrative meant the rehabilitation of 
Herodotus by various philologists and editors. 

The present study briefly examines three travel narratives, one ancient and 
two modern, with a focus on authorial attitudes toward voyages and veracity. The 
ancient text is Lucian’s True Story, a parody of travel literature which exposes 





6 In his survey of science fiction fans, Bainbridge 1986, 26 notes that “‘Stories about alien 
cultures’ achieved a very high mean rating (5.09), perhaps because such stories offer the surprise 
and excitement of constant disovery.” 

7 Plutarch’s essay On the Malignity of Herodotus seems to have been inspired by the author’s pride 
in his native Boeotia, a region much maligned by Attic-Ionic authors. 





Beyond the Pillars of Hercules 137 


the ambiguities inherent in the genre.* The modern texts are Columbus’ log of 
his initial voyage of 1492-93, and Antonio Pigafetta’s account of the first 
circumnavigation of the globe in 1519-22.9 


OK 


Exploring the boundaries of fact and fiction, Lucian composed a parodic narrative 
which he ironically titled The True Story, a fantastic voyage beyond the Pillars 
of Hercules.!° As a parody of classical Greek voyage literature — particularly the 
navigational account titled Periplus by Iambulus — Lucian’s True Story offers 
us, by its use of exaggerated mannerisms, a critical commentary on ancient 
travel narrative. It thus affords a convenient point of departure for our own 
exploration into travel narratives ancient and modern. 

An essential element of Lucian’s True Story lies in the pervasive irony of 
the narrator’s asseverations that he is telling the truth. The irony of the narrative 
is established by Lucian’s brief preface, which speaks in a detached (and 
seemingly different) voice to explain the subsequent story. Like his paradoxical 
encomia, Lucian’s fantastic journeys relate incredible events with ironic dignity; 
their satiric energy derives from the tension between narrative matter and 
authorial voice. In his preface to the True Story, Lucian complains that previous 
writers like Ctesias and Iambulus have abused their readers by affirming the 
veridical nature of their outlandish histories.!! Lucian, by contrast, promises to 
tell only one truth, namely, that he is lying. This statement rephrases the Cretan 
paradox of Epimenides — “All Cretans are liars, and I am a Cretan” — which 
lies (so to speak) at the heart of comic ambiguity (Colie 1966, 5-7; Paulos 
1980, 41-55). It should be noted that this reference to the comic tension between 
truth and fiction points to a pervasive concern in Lucian’s writings with veracity 
(aletheia) and imposture (pseudos). For Lucian’s repeated choice of titles with a 
“true” or “false” component — Alethe Diegemata (The True Story), 
Philopseudeis (The Lover of Lies), Alexandros e Pseudomantis (Alexander the 
False Prophet), Pseudologistes (The Mistaken Critic), and Pseudosophistes e 
Soloikistes (The Sham Sophist or The Solecist) — itself works another 
variation on the Cretan paradox. When his title speaks of shams and liars, he is 
urging a veracious critique, but his two books of The True Story contain 
nothing but lies! 

In a spirit of curiosity, the narrator writes, he once sailed beyond the Pillars 


81 have principally used the edition of Ollier: Lucian 1962. 
9 See Columbus 1989, and Pigafetta 1969; the latter’s account also appears in Ramusio 1967-70, 
1:352-70. 
10 See Sciolla 1988, 104, on the Pillars of Hercules as a narrative boundary. 

In his discussion of True Story, Korus 1984, 310, asserts that Lucian’s theory of humour 
includes a “theory of the novel,” but fails to develop the argument. On Lucian and history, see 
Lucian 1965, 29-38. 


138 David Marsh 
of Hercules in a pinnace with a crew of fifty: 


Setting sail from the Pillars of Hercules one day, and heading for the western ocean 
with a fair breeze, I began my voyage. The motive and purpose for my journey were 
my intellectual curiosity and my desire for strange adventures, and my wish to find the 
ocean’s limits and to learn what people inhabit beyond them. 

(1.5) 


The ship soon met a powerful gale that raged for eighty days. When they finally 
anchored near a steep, wooded island, a party of twenty men went ashore and 
found a bronze tablet on which were carved the faded words: “Hercules and 
Dionysus reached this point.” The faded letters of this sign signify an era of 
remote myth, for they refer to the outermost boundaries of the known world 
reached by Hercules, who set his pillars at the Straits of Gibraltar, and by 
Dionysus, who conquered India. (Lucian’s geography may seem confused, but it 
anticipates the different directions sailed by the Spanish and Portuguese in 
seeking a route to the Spice Islands. In Luis de Caméens’ Lusiads (1.30), the 
god Bacchus protests the eastward voyage of Vasco da Gama as eclipsing his 
conquest of India.!”) Near the bronze plaque are two gigantic footprints left by 
those heroes. The larger of the two, a hundred feet long, belongs to Hercules and 
parodies the two-cubit footprint of Hercules found in Scythia, according to 
Herodotus (4.82). When the explorers proceed further, they encounter a race of 
vine-people, whose females ensnare a number of lustful but unsuspecting 
Greeks. It is important to note in this first episode that nearly all the aliens 
encountered by Lucian’s narrator speak Greek, although some of the vine- 
maidens also speak “Lydian and Indian.” 

In the main episode of the book, which was to inspire Alberti, Ariosto, and 
Swift, the narrator relates how a storm bore his boat up into the sky and landed 
them on the moon: 


Seven days and seven nights we sailed the air, and on the eighth we saw a great land 
like an island in the sky, bright, spherical and shining with great light. We 
approached, anchored, and went ashore; and on exploring the country we found it 
inhabited and cultivated. By day we could see nothing beyond it, but at night many 
other islands appeared near to us, some large and others small, below us another land, 
with cities in it and rivers and seas and woods and mountains. We guessed that it was 
the earth we inhabit. 

(1.10)? 


12 Lusiads 1.30 (Caméens 1987, 78): “O padre Baco ali nao consentia / No que Jupiter disse, 
conhecendo / Que esquecerdo seus feitos no Oriente, / Se 14 passar a Lusitana gente.” 

For this as main episode, see Anderson 1976b, 8-9. For the “other” worlds of Alberti and 
Aniosto, see Quint 1983, 82-83. 








Beyond the Pillars of Hercules 139 


The innocent explorers soon find themselves drafted into a war, which (like most 
military campaigns in Lucian) evokes the petty territorial disputes of fifth- 
century Greek cities. Endymion, king of the moon is fighting Phaethon, king of 
the sun, for opposing his colonization of the Morning Star. Lucian and his men 
join Endymion’s forces, whose outlandish appearance and numbers are described 
in detail. In the initial battle, Endymion’s forces are triumphant, but the sudden 
arrival of the Cloud-centaurs rallies Phaethon’s troops to victory. Together with 
two companions, Lucian is captured and taken to the sun. When Phaethon’s 
troops build a large wall to eclipse the moon in perpetual darkness, Endymion 
sues for terms to end the war, and a treaty is signed. A grateful Endymion offers 
Lucian a marriage with his son: for the moon people are all male and reproduce 
without females. Although the Lucian declines this offer, he remains on the 
moon as a guest, and has occasion to observe many curious lunar habits, which 
he says that anyone making the same journey will find true (1.22-26). 

In the next major episode, the Greeks return to earth (after four days’ 
sailing), only to be swallowed by a whale which is 150 miles long. Inside the 
whale, the Greeks meet an aged Cypriot named Scintharus, who describes 
various fish-like inhabitants of the whale’s belly, and adds that he must pay an 
annual tribute of five hundred oysters to the Solefeet. Since he and his comrades 
are better armed, the narrator urges Scintharus to provoke a war by withholding 
his tribute; and in the ensuing conflict, the Greeks rout their fishy opponents and 
occupy their lands. After a year and eight months, a great sea-battle takes place 
outside the whale, fought between giants who row on floating islands, using 
cypress trees as oars. 

In the second book of the True Story, the Greeks escape from the whale’s 
belly by setting fire to the forest. After a week the whale dies, and they sail 
forth. Encountering a series of fantastic ecosystems, the Greeks burrow and sled 
their way across a miraculous icecap, feast on a land of milk and cheese, and sail 
with a host of cork-footed men. At length, they arrive at the Isle of the Blest, 
where their stay forms the main episode of Lucian’s second book. They are 
welcomed by the island’s ruler, the Cretan judge Rhadamanthus who grants them 
seven months to stay. Amid the frequent banquets of this earthly paradise, the 
Greeks meet Socrates, Homer, and Pythagoras. The Greeks’ sojourn is cut short 
when Cinyras (son of the Cypriot Scintharus) is caught attempting to abduct 
Helen of Troy. The banished Greeks then pass the Isles of the Wicked, where 
punishment is meted out to adulterers like Cinyras, and to liars like Ctesias and 
Herodotus. (The narrator rejoices in his own veracity, which spares him such 
torment.) As they continue their voyage, the Greeks pass the Isle of Dreams, 
land on Ogygia (where Lucian delivers a letter of introduction from Odysseus to 
Calypso), engage in a battle with pirates, founder on strange islands, and finally 
sight the legendary Antipodes. They debate whether to go ashore, but (like 
Dante’s Ulysses) suffer shipwreck in a sudden violent tempest. The narrator 
promises to continue his account in the next book, a promise which Lucian 


140 David Marsh 


never kept. 

The “open ending” of Lucian’s True Story plays the reader a nasty 
narratological trick by subverting classical standards for plot exposition. In the 
Second Sophistic, the principles of Hellenistic critics had long since been 
codified into canonical rules partly derived (as in later classicisms) from 
Aristotelian remarks on tragedy. The narrator should hasten in medias res in order 
to arrive at the critical peripeteia which suddenly changes events and reveals 
character. Homer’s epics succeed because they select a unified part of a larger 
story (Aristotle, Poetics 8.1459a30: Iliad; 23.1451a22: Odyssey). Crisis and 
resolution were essential for dramatic and poetic closure, and the epic tradition of 
the Odyssey and other nostoi set the pattern for the bloody climaxes of 
Aeschylus’ Agamemnon and Virgil’s Aeneid. Lucian throws this advice out the 
window. By taking Ctesias and Iambulus at their word, he purports to record 
historical data, including such nautically pedestrian matters as provisions, 
bearings, and winds. Sailing from mere curiosity, his narrator has no goal or 
destination, unlike those later explorers who were consumed by a quest, no 
matter whether Cathay or Calcutta, El Dorado or David Livingstone. Indeed, the 
directionless voyage is terminated by an unmotivated shipwreck, ordained by no 
irate deity; and the fate of the curious Greeks is unresolved. Lucian’s unkept 
promise to continue his tale denies any sense of narrative homecoming. 
Odysseus’ nostimon emar is postponed sine die, and the reader’s nostalgia 
becomes neuralgia. 

The “open” ending of the True Story also points to the fact, analyzed by 
Anderson, that Lucian’s narrative consists of patterned adventures which can be 
repeated ad infinitum, and even (to use an appropriate maritime metaphor) ad 
nauseam (Anderson 1976a, 1976b). Like the producers of modern science fiction 
and adventure films, Lucian leaves himself material, method, and motive for a 
sequel. Given the interchangeability of Lucian’s material, one might expect his 
True Story to create humor in the Bergsonian mode, that is, by mechanical 
repetition of inappropriate gestures. But the comic tension of the work operates 
through a different sort of irony. Since parodies generally rely on recognizable 
subtexts — the “palimpsests” of Genette’s title — it might seem impossible to 
parody descriptions of unknown and unexplored worlds. But a key to Lucian’s 
parodic method is furnished by the Russian formalist Jurij Tynjanov whose 1929 
essay On Parody defines parody as the substitution of elements in one semantic 
system by those of another.!4 Lucian has translated motifs of Greek myth and 
history to the remotest possible system, the unknown world beyond the Pillars 


14 Gorni-Longhi 1986, 462 (citing Tynjanov, O parodii): “Poiché ogni opera costituisce 
un’interazione sistematica, una correlazione di elementi, non esistono elementi neutri; se uno di 
€ssi viene sostituito da un altro, cid significa che nel sistema é stato inserito un segno di sistema 
diverso; di conseguenza viene distrutta la sistematicita (o meglio, ne viene messa in luce la 
convenzionalita).” 


Beyond the Pillars of Hercules 141 


of Hercules. This approach to parody proved easy to imitate, and became the 
central procedure of English Lucianists like More and Swifi, who (in 
Tynjanovian terms) relocate elements of British culture to more distant isles. 

Lucian’s narrative building-blocks are elements borrowed from travel and 
historical narrative. In the tradition of “informative” travel literature, his curious 
voyager dutifully charts his course, and marks each landfall with details of 
terrain, flora, and fauna. His parodic method lies in exaggerations that strain the 
reader’s credulity. Distances and dimensions are routinely hyperbolic, and the 
new worlds discovered feature preposterous landscapes and exotic life-forms, 
usually hybrids of familiar plants and animals.!> The longer episodes, in turn, 
parody the historio-graphical tradition through the realia of the annalistic 
tradition. Beyond the known world lie numerous societies remarkably like Greek 
city-states, and Lucian’s voyager is soon embroiled in territorial disputes, treaty 
violations, and inevitable warfare. 

Lucian’s absurdist narrative thus conceals a deeper truth about travel. The 
exotic worlds he encounters beyond the Pillars of Hercules are perceived as 
chaotic versions of the familiar world of Greek culture. The cognitive basis for 
exploring the new world remains the old world left behind. As in much science 
fiction, the mores and motives of alien beings mirror our own, and even the 
most grotesque creatures, while not speaking our language, understand our 
intentions. Within the narrative, reciprocal forces are exerted by the cognitive 
tension between known and unknown. On the one hand, the depiction of “true” 
phenomena is distorted toward “falsehood” through hyperbole and hybridism. On 
the other, the “false” world of the fictitious voyage is made to “ring true” by its 
assimilation to intelligible patterns of culture and language. In Saussurian terms, 
there is no truth or falsehood, there are only differences. Lucian’s True Story 
presents a narrative theory of relativity. 

Literary irony, however, can only exist if the author establishes a “true” 
background against which his fictional foreground stands out. In the True Story, 
as in Erasmus’ Lucianic Praise of Folly, the realm of truth lies beyond the 
discourse of the narrator. The lying narrator has a noble pedigree, Lucian points 
out in his preface, for he is descended from Homer’s Odysseus, the “originator 
and teacher of charlatanry.” Even the ancients regarded Homer’s Odyssey as the 
classic paradigm for the fantastic voyage and its parodic descendants.!° Homer’s 
reputation as the “father of lies” sprang in part from an intratextual 
consideration. In the Odyssey (19.203), the disguised Odysseus mixes truth and 
lies on his return to Ithaca, an example of necessary prevarication cited at the 
opening of Lucian’s Lover of Lies. 


15 On Lucian’s fantastic hybrid creations and parallels in other authors, see Anderson 1976a, 27- 
28. In his Prometheus in Words, Lucian compares his own comic method, the blend of comedy and 
puilotenhy, to the hybrid hippocentaur (5). 

6 Lucian, True History, 1.3. See Dane 1988, and Genette 1982, 220-21 on the Odyssey. 


142 David Marsh 


Odysseus’ most famous lie was also an example of Hellenic wit, namely, 
his identification of himself to the Cyclops as Outis or “Noman.” (As in Lucian, 
the barbarians evidently understand Greek, or the pun would be lost.!’) The name 
engendered considerable literary progeny in the Renaissance, of which More’s 
Utopia is the most famous. Like his friend Erasmus, More had read Lucian and 
appreciated the irony of pieces like the Lover of Lies, and his Utopia purports to 
be a travel-log of Hythlodaeus, a former shipmate of the navigator Amerigo 
Vespucci who (like Lucian’s narrator in the True Story) sails out of a desire to 
see the world.!9 Rabelais’s Pantagruel pays tribute to both Lucian and More in 
describing a voyage to several non-places: 


Setting out from that place with a northerly wind and passing by Meden, Uti, Udem 
Gelasim, and the Fairy Isle, and along the coast of the Kingdom of Achoria, they 
finally arrived at the port of Utopia, a little more than nine miles away from the city 
of the Amaurots. 

(Pantagruel 24, in Rabelais 1982, 227-28) 


A few chapters later, Rabelais’ narrator describes a journey into Pantagruel’s 
mouth (a parallel to Lucian’s whale), an episode introduced by a Lucianic 
asseveration of veracity: “Jupiter confound me with his three-forked lightning if I 
lie” (Pantagruel 32, in Rabelais 1982, 256). And of course Rabelais’ fourth and 
fifth books, while pointing the way towards the social satire of Swift, pay the 
most monumental flattery of imitation to Lucian’s True Story (for Rabelais, see 
Robinson 1979, 133-35; for Swift, 137-39). 

Odysseus’ punning lie served a practical purpose and helped ensure the 
survival of the hero and his crew members. But he was not engaged in writing 
history, a serious pursuit which Lucian discusses in his treatise How to Write 
History. Lucian’s preface to A True Story lambastes the historians Ctesias and 
Iambulus — both notorious fabricators of pseudo-historical works. 

Indeed, Lucian’s parody offers a surprisingly modern analysis of writers such 
as the fourth-century physician Ctesias, whose Books on Persia he repeatedly 
impugns. The recent assessment of Ctesias by Gerhard Wirth in Der kleine 
Pauly points to the features of Ctesias which Lucian singles out for parody: 


Ctesias works with dramatic effects . . . and divides his account into single 
episodes...Stories of the miraculous and a delight in the exotic determine the 
character of the work. . . . This mode of presentation must be explained by the 
transition from the historiographical concerns of a Herodotus or Thucydides to the 


17 On translatability as evidence of literary forgery, see Grafton 1990, 89. 

More 1978, 18: “orbis terrarum contemplandi studio Americo Vespucci se adiunxit atque in 
tribus illaram quattuor nauigationum quae passim iam leguntur perpetuus eius comes fuit, nisi quod 
in ultima cum eo non redijt.” For More’s reading of Lucian’s Lover of Lies, see Knox 1989, 108; 
for a brief discussion of Utopia, see Robinson 1979, 131-33. 


Beyond the Pillars of Hercules 143 


publically oriented sensationalist literature of the Hellenistic period. 
(Wirth 1979, col. 366; my trans.) 


In his critique of Ctesias and other writers, Lucian’s narrative exaggerations 
caricature precisely this transition from historical veracity to fictional invention. 


* kK 


If we turn now to the era of Renaissance voyages, the diary of Columbus 
presents a curious parallel to the stratagem of Homer’s Odysseus. Opening the 
logbook of Columbus for the first time, the modern reader is struck not only by 
the solemnity of the admiral’s ends, but also by his Odyssean means of attaining 
them. For from the very first days of voyage, Columbus records how he lied to 
his crew, giving them understated figures for the distance traversed “in order not 
to frighten them” — thus giving new meaning to the phrase “Columbus forged 
ahead.” 

Columbus’ prevarications to his crew, which serve the practical purpose of a 
commercial undertaking, are matched by the optimistic self-deception which 
pervades the pages of his journal. Whatever its sources, his credulity is no 
isolated case, but is reflected in the Renaissance penchant for embracing accounts 
of new worlds. The legendary periplus of Iambulus, mocked by Lucian, inspires 
the great tradition of Renaissance utopias initiated by Thomas More. The 
rehabilitation of Herodotus by Renaissance scholars reveals a similar enthusiasm 
for exotic lore. As part of his 1566 edition of Herodotus, Henricus Stephanus 
published an Apologia pro Herodoto in reply to Plutarch’s biased essay, and 
excerpted the pro-Herodotean observations which Joachim Camerarius had 
prefaced to his own edition of the Greek historian: 


In reading Herodotus’ apparently exaggerated stories, it would be unfair both to judge 
them untrue simply because they seem at odds with generally familiar facts, customs, 
and teaching, or incompatible with our way of thinking, and to deem credible only 
those things that are readily grasped and understood. . . . I won’t deny that there are 
some foclish elements in some narratives, as in the tales of travelers who have 
visited those lands “‘washed by the crashing sea on the earth’s furthest shores.” But 
would it not be churlish to reject out of hand every kind of such stories as futile and 
vain? To do so would be to destroy the entire method of history, and to undermine its 
essence.”! 


20 Some recent scholars attribute Columbus’ apparent duplicity to a double standard of Spanish 
and Portuguese leagues as misinterpreted by Las Casas: see Columbus 1989, 29n2. If this is true, it 
was the well-intentioned transcriber who “forged” the navigator’s ruse as a means of appeasing 
the crew. 

21 Herodotus 1592 (Stephanus’ second edition), fol. g i v, “Ex Ioachimi Camerarii prooemio in 
historias Herodoti”: “Sed de iis quae memorantur a Herodoto propter magnitudinem nobis 
incredibilia, periniquum fuerit iudicium, si non uera esse ideo statuemus quod notis cuique rebus, 


144 David Marsh 


In his preface, Camerarius also praises Herodotus for describing things worthy of 
record, and contrasts his value to the shallow pandering of later sophists like 
Heliodorus and Lucian: 


Did not Herodotus treat exceptional and excellent subjects in his account, rather than 
the worthless and pointless ones discussed by some ancient writers perhaps, and 
certainly by many of the Second Sophistic? The latter strove only to delight shallow 
readers with empty amusement, like the author of the Aethiopica and the author of the 
The Syrian Goddess, by which one can easily rate other such works.2 


Camerarius’ willingness to suspend judgment on the veracity of travel narratives 
is matched by Stephanus’ tolerant acceptance of ancient writers whose reliability 
has been questioned since antiquity. As an appendix to his edition of Herodotus, 
Stephanus prints ample excerpts (quoted from Photius) of the Cnidian physician 
Ctesias, whose fourth-century description of Persia is now regarded as a forgery 
(Grafton 1990, 9, 37-38). 

Our present-day distinction between truth and fiction may in fact constitute 
an anachronism. As noted above, Ramusio’s Voyages and Travels includes 
several works of cosmography rejected by later scholarship, among them the 
Periplus of Iambulus parodied by Lucian’s True Story. And it is often difficult to 
distinguish, as Herodotus purports to do, between things actually seen (Greek 
autopsia) and reports based on hearsay. The journal of Antonio Pigafetta offers a 
vivid first-hand account of Patagonian giants more than seven feet tall, but his 
description of fantastic dwarfs, which he heard from a Moluccan native, may 
have suffered linguistic distortion: 


Our old pilot of Molucca told us that nearby was an island named Aruchete, where the 
men and women are no taller than a cubit and have ears so large that of one they make 
their bed, and with the other they cover themselves.23 


The likelihood of semantic garbling implicit in Pigafetta’s report alerts us to the 
cognitive difficulties inherent in Western descriptions and deductions concerning 





moribus, disciplinae non similia neque rationibus nostris congruentia uideantur, sique non nisi iis 
quae facile intelligere et animo complecti possimus fidem habendam esse ducemus. . . . Sunt sane 
quaedam inaniora (non enim nego) in talibus, ut summouet oceano [Virg. A. 7.225], sermonibus. 
Cuius inhumanitatis tamen fuerit uniuersum genus narrationum istarum semel abiicere ut futile et 
uanum? Quod si fiat, omnem historiae rationem confundi habitumque peruerti necesse est.” 

2 Herodotus 1592, fol. g i: “nonne potius praecipuas et praclaras res complexus est expositione 
sua, quam nihili atque futiles? ut fecere fortasse et veteres aliqui, certe posteriorum ex illo genere 
sophistico multi, qui nihil nisi inani quadam oblectatione animous leuium quorundam afficere 
studuerunt, sicut ille Aethiopicorum et Deae Syriae autor, de quibus facile existimari potest de 
similibus operibus aliorum.” 

23 Pigafetta 1969, 1:45-50 (Patagonian giants), 1:139 (Moluccan tale). 


Beyond the Pillars of Hercules 145 


foreign cultures. As in its later descendant, science fiction, the narrative of the 
fantastic voyage depends upon recognizable patterns. Without domestic features, 
the exotic can make no sense. Alien beings and their societies must correspond 
to our own customs in order to be intelligible. By depicting the Sun and Moon 
at war, Lucian opens the way for future satirists in the Swiftian mode, who 
transplant familiar institutions to distant realms. But Renaissance explorers met 
with strange peoples who challenged, and often resisted, their Western notions of 
civilization. Writing in 1484, Bartolomeo Scala describes the Portuguese as 
having recently explored new islands and found people “without laws and living 
like beasts in accordance with nature.” Similarly, Antonio Pigafetta, shipmate 
of Magellan, describes the Brazilian tribes as living “according to the custom of 
nature, more like beasts than otherwise.”*° Columbus describes naked tribes “sin 
armas y sin ley,” but also points out repeatedly that neither explorers nor 
explored spoke the others’ language.” 

Yet while Columbus learned little of the natives’ language, he records the 
Taino noun cacigue (“chieftain”) a dozen times.2”7 When Western explorers 
encountered societies with kings and laws, they found a world which 
corresponded more closely to their own notions and words. The Latin binomial 
lex-rex and its descendants in various Romance languages denote the main two 
coordinates of Western society which explorers sought to identify in the new 
world. In his epic Lusiads, the Portuguese poet Camdens couples the words lei 
and rei in depicting the 1498 encounter of Vasco da Gama and Moslem traders 
from the island of Mozambique: 


Eis aparecem logo em compania 

Uns pequenos batéis, que vem daquela 
Que mais chegada 4 terra parecia, 
Cortando o longo mar com larga vela. 
A gente se alvoroga e, de alegria, 

Na&o sabe mais que olhar a causa dela. 


24 Scala 1940, 262: “Quot putas preterea in orbe terrarum nationes esse incultas et rudes atque ab 
hac civili disciplina que abhorreant? Cuiusmodi etiam complures Ioannes Lusitanie rex et novas 
insulas et antehac incognitas gentes modo pervestigavit, exleges penitus ac ature ferarum quoque 
more obtemperantes.” The reference is probably to the islands of Fernando Po (now Bioko) and 
Sao Tomé, explored in the early 1480s. 

5 Pigafetta 1969, 1:43. As Skelton notes, the Italian version omits the phrase “more like beasts 
than otherwise”: cf. Ramusio 1967-70, 1:353. 

Columbus 1989, 132 (4 November 1492): “Esta gente es muy mansa y muy temerosa, desnuda 
como dicho tengo, sin armas y sin ley”; 112 (24 October): “porqué por lengua no los entiendo”; 
182 (27 November): “y tambien no se la lengua y la gente destas tierras no me entienden ni yo ni 
otro que yo tenga a ellos”; 206 (6 December): “ni los entendia bien ni ellos a el”; 258 (21 
December): “y dize que otra cosa no falta saluo saber la lengua... .” 

27 First record on December 17, 1492 (Columbus 1989, 236): “governador . . . que llamavan 
cacique.” 


146 David Marsh 


“Que gente sera esta (em si deziam) 

Que costumes, que Lei, que Rei teriam?” 

(Behold, there soon appear in a group 

Some small boats coming from the island 

That seemed to lie closest to the land, 

And cutting the wide sea with broad sails. 

The crew becomes excited, and in their joy 

They fix their gaze on the sight that causes it. 

“What people can these be, they ask themselves, 

What customs, what law, what king can they have?”)28 


The identification of seemingly Western social structures rapidly opened the 
impenetrable frontier to the cultural exchanges of commerce, religion, and 
diplomacy. Most significantly, the newcomers occasionally served as military 
allies — a pattern already found in Lucian, whose adventurous Greeks soon take 
sides in the war between the Sun and Moon. The value of European wares yields 
to the valor of European warriors, although both are based on technological 
production and (expendable) weapons were often bartered for native riches. 

An investigation into the foggier realms of historiography must take into 
account another less material boundary, namely, the demarcations of language. 
Ramusio’s anthology enjoyed great success precisely because it united disparate 
texts in a linguistic and cultural format which consistently represented the 
learned circles of Northern Italy (Mazzali 1986, 580). But today’s more 
philologically minded reader will be struck at once by the polyglottal layers left 
in the written record. Marco Polo employed a Pisan amanuensis to describe the 
Orient in Franco-Venetan dialect. The Genoese Columbus wrote in Spanish, the 
Tuscan Vespucci in Latin, and the Venetan Pigafetta (sailing under the Spanish 
flag with a Portuguese captain) prepared a French version of his travels. Pigafetta 
also compiled four short vocabularies of common native words in Brazilian Tupi 
(8 words), Patagonian Tehuelche (90), and in the Malayan languages Visayan 
(140) and Malay (450). It is a tribute to Pigafetta’s disinterested curiosity that 
his journal represents the earliest Western attempt to provide a systematic and 
accurate lexicon of “new” native languages. Pigafetta’s “modern” spirit of 
investigation contrasts strikingly with the glossocentrism of Lucian’s imaginary 
voyager, and of Greek historians generally, for whom all alien tongues were, by 
circular definition, merely barbarous. If a valid claim can be made for the 
Renaissance as a period of expanding horizons, the realm of language may 
provide fertile terrain for uncovering substantial evidence. A lexicon does not, of 


28 Tusiads 1.45 (Caméens 1987, 82). In fact, the word /ei here means “religion,” as the following 
stanzas make clear. When the Portuguese say they have come from a powerful king (1.51: “Dum 
Rei potente somos’), the Moslems reply that they live by the Law of Mohammed, unlike the natives 
who live without law or reason (1.53: “os préprios so aqueles que criou / A Natura, sem Lei e 
sem Razao./ Nés temos a Lei certa que insinou / O claro descendente de Abraao”’). 


f 


Beyond the Pillars of Hercules 147 


course, constitute a narrative, and in publishing Pigafetta’s text, Ramusio 
reduced the Malay word-list from 450 items to 47.29 This editorial excision 
provides yet another reminder of the tensions inherent in travel narratives, which 
aspire to provide either informative handbooks or entertaining odysseys. 
Presumably, too many data spoil the story. We are perhaps fortunate that 
Melville’s Moby-Dick was not edited by Ramusio. 


Rutgers University 


Works Cited 


Anderson, Graham. Lucian: Theme and Variation in the Second Sophistic. 
Mnemosyne, Supplement 41. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1976(a). 

. Studies in Lucian’s Comic Fiction. Mnemosyne, Supplement 43. Leiden: E. 
J. Brill, 1976(b). 

Bainbridge, William Sims. Dimensions of Science Fiction. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 
1986. 

Botsfield, Beriah, ed. Prefaces to the First Editions of the Greek and Roman Classics 
and of the Sacred Scriptures. London: Henry George Bohn, 1961. 

Bracciolini, Poggio. Opera omnia. Ed. Riccardo Fubini. 4 vols. Torino: Bottega 
d’Erasmo, 1964-69. 

Caméens, Luis de. Os Lusiadas. Ed. Emanuel Paulo Ramos. 3d ed. Lisbon: Porto 
Editora, 1987. 

Cardona, Giorgio Raimondo. “I viaggi e le scoperte.” Letteratura italiana. Vol. 5. Le 
questioni. Ed. Alberto Asor Rosa. Torino: Einaudi 1986. 687-716. 

Columbus, Christopher. The ‘Diario’ of Christopher Columbus's First Voyage to 
America 1492-1493, Abstracted by Fray Bartolomé de las Casas. Transcribed and 
translated into English by Oliver Dunn and James E. Kelley, Jr. Norman: U of 
Oklahoma P, 1989. 

Dane, Joseph A. Parody: Critical Concepts Versus Literary Practice, Aristophanes to 
Sterne. Norman: U of Oklahoma P, 1988. 

Genette, Gérard. Palimpsestes: La littérature au second degré. Paris: Editions du Seuil, 
1982. 

Gorni, Guglielmo, and Silvia Longhi. “La parodia.” Letteratura italiana. Vol. 5. Le 
questioni. Ed. Alberto Asor Rosa. Turin: Einaudi 1986. 459-87. 

Grafton, Anthony. Forgers and Critics: Creativity and Duplicity in Western 
Scholarship. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1990. 

Herodotus. Historiarum Libri IX. Ed. Henricus Stephanus. 2d ed. [Geneva]: excudebat 
Henricus Stephanus, 1592. 

Hughes, Robert. Barcelona. New York: Knopf, 1992. 

Knox, Dilwyn. Ironia: Medieval and Renaissance Ideas on Irony. Columbia Studies in 


29 See Skelton’s note in Pigafetta 1969, 1:172. 


148 David Marsh 


the Classical Tradition 16. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1989. 

Korus, Kazimierz. “The Theory of Humour in Lucian of Samosata.” Eos 72 (1984): 
295-313. 

Lucian. Histoire vraie. Ed. Francois Ollier. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 
1962. 

Mazzali, Ettore. ‘‘Ramusio, Giovanni Battista.” Dizionario critico della letteratura 
italiana. Ed. Vittore Branca. 4 vols. 2d ed. Torino: UTET, 1986. 3:579-84. 

More, Thomas. Utopia. Latin text with Italian trans. by Luigi Firpo. Vicenza: Neri 
Pozza Editore, 1978. 

Pigafetta, Antonio. Magellan's Voyage: A Narrative Account of the First 
Circumnavigation. Ed. and trans. R. A. Skelton. 2 vols. New Haven: Yale UP, 
1969. 

Quint, David. Origin and Originality in Renaissance Literature: Versions of the 
Source. New Haven: Yale UP, 1983. 

Rabelais, Frangois. The Histories of Gargantua and Pantagruel. Trans. John M. 
Cohen. Franklin Center: The Franklin Library, 1982. 

Ramusio, Giovanni Battista. Navigationi et Viaggi: Venice 1563-1606. 3 vols. 
(Facsimile edition with introduction.) Amsterdam: Theatrum Orbis Terrarum, 
1967-70. 

Robinson, Christopher. Lucian and His Influence in Europe. London: Duckworth, 
1979. 

Scala, Bartolomeo. “De legibus et iudiciis dialogus.” Ed. Lamberto Borghi. La 
bibliofilia 19 (1940): 256-82. 

Sciolla, Laura. Gli artifici della finzione poetica nella “Storia vera” di Luciano. 
Foggia: Atlantica Editrice, 1988. 

Sidwell, Keith. Lucian in the Italian Quattrocento. Diss. Cambridge, 1975. 

Wirth, Gerhard. “Ktesias.” Der Kleine Pauly. 5 vols. Munich: Deutscher 
Taschenbuchverlag, 1979. 3:466. 








Enzo Esposito 


BIBLIOGRAFIA ANALITICA 
DEGLI SCRITTI SU 
DANTE 


(1950 -1970) 


L'opera si pone a continuazione di precedenti repertori compilati da 
Niccolé Domenico Evola, Héléne Wieruszowski, Aldo Vallone. Con le 
sue circa 9200 voci distribuite in 14 sezioni (Testi di consultazione; 
Raccolte e antologie; Scritti complessivi; Scritti biografici; Ambiente e 
tradizione culturale; Cultura, pensiero, spiritualita di Dante; Arte in 
Dante; «Divina Commedia»; Opere minori; Studi sui manoscritti e sulle 
edizioni a stampa; Studi su commenti e commentatori; Studi su illustra- 
zioni e illustratori; Studi su traduzioni e traduttori; Fortuna e storia della 
critica) offre un quadro ben ricco del culto di Dante nel mondo. 

A scorrere la fitta trama bibliografica, guarnita per lo piu di 
convenienti essenziali «abstracts», si colgono i tratti sicuri di un disegno 
critico, in cui con netta evidenza s'intrecciano umori e giudizi, ricuperi e 
proiezioni, consolidamenti e conquiste (ma possono anche cogliersi certi 
criteri segnaletici e descrittivi ormai correttamente affidabili nell'eserci- 
zio della pratica di ricerca). 

A completamento (e a parte) si trovano gli indici dei periodici 
consultati, degli autori e degli argomenti, indici che portano a calcolare 
peso e spessore del lavoro bibliografico, l'intelaiatura di echi, agganci e 
riferimenti tutta propria del dispositivo specifico d'una registrazione 
esclusiva. 





























Dantologia, vol. 1 
1990, cm. 17x24, 4 tomi di compl. XX VIII-1474 pp. 
Lire 320.000 [ISBN 88 222 3724 2] 






Casa EDITRICE Leo S. OLSCHKI 
> Casella postale 66 + 50100 Firenze [> m% 055 / 6530684 + Telefax 6530214 







Albert N. Mancini 


Ideologia e struttura 
nel Mondo nuovo di Giovanni Giorgini 


Il presente studio intende fornire un contributo per un inquadramento storico- 
critico del genere epico colombiano, di quella “benedetta materia oceanica”, come 
ebbe a definirla con ironia rattenuta il Tassoni, fiorita tra la fine del Cinquecento 
e il primo Seicento. Ma soprattutto vuole essere un avvicinamento a un testo, il 
Mondo nuovo di Giovanni Giorgini, poco conosciuto o solo parzialmente 
trattato, che reclama un posto di rispetto a fianco di altri, presenti ormai nelle 
storie letterarie. Un testo nel quale mi sono imbattuto anni fa, nel corso delle 
mie ricerche sulla letteratura epica fra |’ Ariosto e il Tasso, ma il cui riesame @ 
reso piu attuale dalla ricorrenza del mezzo millennio della “scoperta” europea del 
nuovo continente. 

Il centro ispiratore della mia indagine si trova in una presa di posizione di 
Rosario Romeo, contenuta in un fondamentale lavoro sulla dimensione e 
coscienza delle scoperte americane nell’Italia del Cinquecento, di recente 
ristampato. In polemica con Geoffrey Atkinson, il Romeo sostiene che la 
seconda meta del Cinquecento é |’epoca che vede |’ origine del concetto moderno 
del “selvaggio”, che si sostituisce all’antico termine “barbaro”, con una 
qualificazione anche pit fortemente negativa. Fuori di quest’atmosfera nella quale 
l’idea della inferiorita dei popoli americani e addirittura della costituzione fisica 
del nuovo mondo diventera dominante nella letteratura scientifica non si 
riuscirebbero a spiegare neppure i metodi reali della conquista dei nuovi territori. 
Ed € per questa ragione che il Romeo suggerisce che la storia del mito del buon 
selvaggio a partire dal Seicento non va piu ricercata nei libri di geografia che 
direttamente continuano le storie naturali del nuovo mondo e le relazioni di 
viaggio del Cinquecento, ma piuttosto nella letteratura, nei romanzi utopistici e 
nei viaggi immaginari (120).! Interessante, a mio avviso, rimane anche il caso 
del sottogenere epico chiamato, come si diceva, “poema oceanico” 0 colombiano 
a partire dai frammenti dell’Oceano del Tassoni e del Mondo nuovo di 
Guidubaldo Benamati, al Mondo nuovo dello Stigliani, ai passi dell’ Adone. 

Il Giorgini fu in realta non solo uno dei primi, ma anche uno dei pid attenti 
a vedere e capire che il soggetto della scoperta e conquista del nuovo continente 


1 Si tratta della ristampa della seconda edizione del 1971. Nella sua prefazione il Villari evidenzia 
lo scarso impegno della cultura italiana per quest’ordine di problemi, testimoniato dallo scarso 
avanzamento rispetto allo studio del Romeo, apparso nella prima edizione nel 1954. 


Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 11 


si prestava come soggetto epico; a riprodurre quindi di fatto tutte le principali 
caratteristiche, tematiche ideologiche e tipologiche, della nuova moda epica tra 
Cinque e Seicento.” Il suo poema epico é il primo che tratti dell’argomento 
cento anni circa dopo gli eventi storici riferiti, anche se lo Stigliani rivendica a 
sé il ruolo di pioniere.* Gli aspetti narrativi, didascalici e etico-politici del 
Mondo nuovo giorginiano paiono assicurare la possibilita di una lettura non 
infruttuosa, da cui ricavare alcune coordinate fondamentali di questa produzione 
su un particolare soggetto epico passibile di ulteriori integrazioni e di nuove 
riflessioni. 

Giovanni Giorgini € personaggio per tanti versi esemplare nella storia del 
gusto e della cultura letteraria della tarda stagione cinquecentesca. Discendente di 
nobile famiglia iesina, nacque nel 1535, si addottord presso l’universita di 
Macerata nel 1575 in filosofia e giurisprudenza e fu chiamato ad insegnare logica 
nello studio della sua cittd nativa, incarico che tenne fino alla morte nel 1606. E 
autore di poesie, di una traduzione delle Odi di Orazio. Ma l’opera che ne ha 
conservato il ricordo é il Mondo nuovo, poema in ventiquattro canti per un totale 
di ben duemila settecento ottave, uscito nel 1596 a Iesi. Un titolo cosi 
apertamente esplicito avrebbe meritato pil ampia menzione nella storia della 
fortuna del tema colombiano e delle imitazioni del Tasso. Ma dare poi sostanza 
storica a tale menzione risulterebbe difficile data la rarita dell’ opera e la scarsita di 
notizie relative all’autore. Su Giovanni Giorgini abbiamo infatti solo alcuni dati 
raccolti dal Quadrio e dal Tiraboschi, e un breve articolo di F. Vecchietti nella 
sua Biblioteca picena, ripreso da Alcibiade Moretti e da altri cultori di storia 
locale.‘ II profilo che ne risulta @ quello di una figura d’intellettuale di provincia, 
provvisto di buone lettere e non privo di ambizioni letterarie, il quale dimostra 
una sicura conoscenza, oltre che dell’epica, della letteratura geografica e di 
viaggio allora disponibile. Va aggiunto che la bibliografia sul Giorgini epico é 
tutt’altro che adequata ed obbedisce per di pit a un copione prestabilito piuttosto 
monotono.° 


1. Un riassunto, sia pure schematico, dei ventiquattro canti del Mondo nuovo 
servira a dare una prima idea del come l’opera s’inserisca in una ben definita 


2 Sulle reazioni italiane alla scoperta si veda Romeo 132-134. 

Steiner 5; 14. Si pud ricordare ancora che il Tassoni discetta “sulla materia del Mondo Nuovo” 
anche in sede di teoria e poetica nella nota lettera ad Agazio di Somma, autore egli stesso di un 
frammento di poema epico sul nuovo mondo, pubblicata con il primo canto del suo Oceano 
nell’edizione principe della Secchia rapita (Parigi, Tussan du Bray, 1622). Per un’edizione recente 
si veda Tassoni, Lettere I, 386-389. 

4 Quadrio VI, 619; Tiraboschi V.VII, 1955; Vecchietti V, 99-100; Moretti 57-59. 

5 Steiner 13-31; Annibaldi; Belloni 432-435; Spina 15-18. Nel presente studio si cita ovviamente 
dall’unica edizione iesina del 1596. Nel trascrivere i passi citati si € seguito un criterio 
prevalentemente conservativo, limitando |’intervento solo qualora lo esigessero ragioni di 
chiarezza. 


152 Albert N. Mancini 


tradizione epica fra 1’ Ariosto e il Tasso, della quale l’autore ripropone ben noti 
topoi, e al tempo stesso come essa presenti una campionatura completa, tematica 
e tipologica, del genere colombiano in anticipo sulle prove pit note del primo 
Seicento. In apertura, non é superfluo osservare che la stesura degli “argomenti” 
preposti (0, eccezionalmente posposti, come nel caso del poema dello Stigliani) 
ai singoli canti o libri, affidata di solito ad altri, lettori privilegiati e revisori 
sollecitati, € pratica comune nella produzione epica del Cinquecento. Nel caso 
specifico, il testo del poema del Giorgini @ provvisto per buona misura di ben 
due sommari, quello a versi, in ottave, di Giovanni Pietro Colini e un secondo 
in prosa di Girolamo Ghisilieri. 

Il poema si apre con la proposizione (I, 1-3) e l’invocazione ai “celesti 
numi” (I, 4-5) perché si degnino di prestare ispirazione e donare forza al poeta che 
si accinge ad impresa mai prima tentata perché dovra trattare non “d’una Cittade,/ 
Né di provincia, o Regno” ma di un “Novo Mondo . . . cosi lontan dal nostro.” 
E gia in questo tradizionale esordio, dominato dall’impegno solenne di cantare del 
“dotto esperto coraggioso duce” Colombo, della “‘invitta, e gloriosa” regina di 
Castiglia e del “famoso e divin Ferdinando” é prefigurato il tono alto e 
magniloquente che vuol essere la cifra stilistica dell’operazione di ricupero in 
chiave epica della conquista delle nuove terre (“. . . spargete d’eloquentia i fiumi/ 
Dentr’a l’ingegno mio, che dotto, e arguto/ Possa narrar in verso alto, e 
prestante/ Opre si degne, e gloriose, e sante”). Dopo la dedica a Filippo, Infante 
di Spagna, e alle principesse, sue sorelle, il poeta introduce il concilio delle Fate, 
deita indigene associate con I’Inferno, le quali, avvertite dell’imminente arrivo 
della flotta spagnola, decidono d’opporsi, sollecitando, tramite la feroce Ertontea, 
i necessari aiuti da Plutone ed allestendo, con la complicita dell’Ozio, una nave 
incantata popolata di festanti garzoni e donzelle da mandare incontro agl’invasori. 
Gli sprovveduti marinai spagnoli, saliti sulla nave infernale, si abbandonano ai 
facili piaceri finché re Ferdinando, che comanda di persona |’armata, destato da 
San Francesco, riesce a rompere |’incantesimo delle Fate. Il sollecito Plutone ha 
pero gia provveduto a mandare innumerevoli mostri marini a distruggere la flotta 
spagnola talché é necessario I|’intervento di San Giacomo, San Francesco e San 
Domenico per allontanare il pericolo. Plutone suscita una terribile tempesta dalla 
quale gli Spagnoli scampano per opera della Bezta Vergine (c. 1). Appena 
sbarcato a Hispaniola il Re incarica Colombo di recuperare le quattro navi 
perdute, mentre in cielo Maria ottiene assicurazioni dal Figlio che il nuovo 
mondo sara evangelizzato. L’ Ammiraglio, alla ricerca delle navi, esplora nuove 
isole raccogliendo notizie sui Cannibali e sulle Amazzoni; ritrova poi Pietro 
d’ Avila nella sua caravella e Martino da Vergara nell’isola della Trinita, e pia 
tardi Vasco di Nufiez coi suoi compagni affamati; scopre anche 1’isola delle perle 
€ apprende il modo di pescarle. Alle foci del fiume Maragnon Colombo viene a 
contesa con gli indiani, ma riesce a renderli mansueti predicendo loro 1’eclissi e 
ascolta notizie delle usanze e dei costumi degli abitanti di una delle terre 
nuovamente scoperte, costumi che ricordano quelli dell’eta dell’oro (c. 2). 


Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini Ls 


Durante il suo viaggio di ritorno a Hispaniola con le navi ritrovate, re 
Ferdinando costruisce un campo trincerato e fa celebrare la messa alla quale 
assiste devoto, mentre sette donzelle, rappresentanti le sette virti discese dal 
cielo, lo incoronano. Gonzal d’Oviedo é da lui mandato ambasciatore ai cacicchi 
dell’isola e, in attesa dell’esito dell’ambasciata, il re passa in rivista le sue forze 
(c. 3). Gli indiani cercano di guadagnare tempo. Alcuni di loro, sorpreso uno 
degli Spagnoli, lo annegano per accertarsi se gli invasori siano mortali, € si 
preparano intanto ad opporre loro resistenza, inviando il disertore cristiano 
Aleppe a chiedere aiuto al re del Messico e incaricando un altro rinnegato, 
Giovan de Cagnamares, di assassinare il re spagnolo. I Cristiani costruiscono 
una citta a cui viene imposto, su consiglio di Colombo, il nome di Isabella (c. 
4). L’Ammiraglio riparte alla ricerca della quinta nave smarrita e per esplorare le 
vicine isole. Intanto, Aleppe, giunto alla citté del Temistitan, di cui € descritta in 
dettaglio la posizione, l’indole e i costumi degli abitanti (c. 5), racconta a 
Montezuma come Colombo aveva scoperto |’ America e le vicende del suo primo 
viaggio (cc. 6-7), poi per incoraggiarlo a intervenire gli espone i vari, ma fin qui 
vani, tentativi delle Fate per far andar a male il secondo viaggio, argomento 
principale del poema (c. 8). 

Montezuma promette un regno al traditore Cagnamare e intanto si prepara 
alla guerra coniro gli Spagnoli. Colombo mette piede su Cuba, v’incontra 
accanita resistenza da parte degli abitanti e da un capo locale apprende gli usi del 
paese e le meraviglie che vi si ttovano. Movendo da Cuba ode di una fontana che 
fa ringiovanire, s’imbatte nell’isola galleggiante dei matti e recupera |’ultima 
delle navi smarrite, la cui ciurma era sopravissuta fra stenti indicibili (cc. 9-10). 
Poi di nuovo congedandosi dal re, 1’ Ammiraglio rientra in Ispagna carico di doni 
per la regina e per |’Infante. Nel frattempo, il campo cristiano in Hispaniola ¢ 
devastato dalla sifilide, dalla peste e dalla carestia dovute alle male arti della Fata 
Ertontea (c. 11). Re Ferdinando, scampato per miracolo all’attentato di 
Cagnamare, riceve valido aiuto dalla regina indiana di un parte dell’isola 
convertitasi al cristianesimo con il nome di Caterina, che gl’insegna I’uso del 
legno santo per guarire la sifilide e gli offre rifugio nel suo regno (c. 12). Il re 
spagnolo fa edificare nel nuovo paese una citta al di 1a dal fiume Ozama e la 
nomina San Domenico. Scoppia pero la guerra in Hispaniola, durante la quale i 
cristiani, assediati nella fortezza di San Tomé dal capo Caonabo, sono liberati da 
Salazar, cavaliere di ventura, che fa strage degl’indiani ostili con |’aiuto di un 
altro contingente guidato da Alonso d’Hogieda (c. 13). Ne segue una terribile 
battaglia contro tutti i capi indiani collegati dell’isola che vengono sconfitti dagli 
Spagnoli, capeggiati anche da Bartolomeo e Diego Colombo. II re del Borichene, 
l’odierna isola di Porto Rico, si converte al Cristianesimo (cc. 14-15). La lotta 
continua contro i Caribi e le Amazzoni. A Cristoforo Colombo, reduce dalla 
Spagna, si affidano le nuove operazioni militari. Con il supporto delle artiglierie 
e la cavalleria riesce facilmente a prevalere sui Caribi, liberando i loro prigionieri 
(c. 16). Le Amazzoni si convertono, prendono per marito i cristiani e la loro 


154 Albert N. Mancini 


regina sposa Salazar (c. 17). Compromessa gravemente cosi la situazione degli 
indiani, la Fata Aspasia assumendo varie guise convince la maggior parte degli 
abitanti di Hispaniola a uccidersi e ricorre nuovamente all’aiuto di Plutone, il 
quale, dopo innumerevoli sacrifici umani a lui offerti dai maghi di Montezuma, 
esce con un esercito di diavoli dall’Inferno per combattere i cristiani (c. 18). 
Allarmata da questi sviluppi, la Vergine Maria intercede presso Dio Padre, che la 
rassicura e le affida uno specchio magico, destinato in dono a re Ferdinando (c. 
19). Mirando in questo specchio, il Re Cattolico vede prima la vittoria 
sull’Inferno e poi tutta la sua gloriosa posterita, un privilegio che debitamente 
condivide con gli altri capi militari cristiani (c. 20). Inoltre, il re sale in cielo per 
recuperare il fuoco divino con cui proteggere i cristiani da Plutone e dalla 
Gorgona. Segue una battaglia d’uomini contro demoni, finché l’artiglieria 
spagnola ha il sopravvento e le creature infernali e lo stesso Plutone, per mano 
di Salazar, lasciano sul campo le loro spoglie mortali (c. 21). Nell’ultima 
sezione del poema viene descritta la campagna contro Montezuma e la conquista 
del Messico. Re Ferdinando fonda la cittaé di Vera Cruz da cui Cortés avanza 
contro la citta-fortezza di Temistitan dopo l’assoggettamento delle province 
limitrofe del Tascaltecal e del Churultecal (c. 22). Montezuma si prepara alla 
difesa con un concilio di guerra nel quale prevale la tesi interventista di 
Ciapotone, il pit valoroso campione dell’impero atzeco. Il re di Spagna mette in 
fuga Ciapotone e fa strage dei nemici con stratagemmi vari (c. 23). Continua 
l’avanzata di Cortés. Montezuma e Ciapotone sono assediati nel tempio piu 
grande e uccisi poi a tradimento. Alla loro morte succede una generale strage 
degli indiani resistenti, finché nel tempio, lordo di tanto sangue, abbattutti 
gl’idoli degli Aztechi, re Ferdinando scoglie il voto di portare la vera religione 
nel nuovo mondo e innalza l’immagine della Madonna (c. 24). 

La storia, ricapitolata alla meglio nell’ordine stesso in cui viene presentata, 
offre gia il destro ad un elementare rimarco narratologico. Frutto di una scelta 
ideologica e politica precisa, quella di celebrare le gesta del popolo spagnolo, 
l’opera vuole fondere in un’unica impresa tutti i viaggi di scoperta di Colombo 
nel nuovo mondo, nonché la conquista del Messico compiuta pit tardi da 
Fernando Cortés. Sull’esempio dell’Eneide, il poema inizia in medias res, con 
gli antecedenti, la scoperta del nuovo continente e il primo viaggio di Colombo, 
introdotti con un racconto in retrospettiva ad opera del rinnegato Aleppe, alla fine 
del canto V e nei seguenti canti VI e VII, cioé a meta della prima parte del 
poema. I] punto pit basso della vicenda principale (la spedizione del re 
Ferdinando e di Cristoforo Colombo per la conquista delle isole del Mare dei 
Caraibi) si tocca a meta dell’opera nel c. 12 con la “gran fame” e il racconto 
dell’attentato al re spagnolo. La parabola ascendente comincia con il riparare di 
Ferdinando nel “degno impero” della convertita regina Caterina. La conquista 
dell’isola Hispaniola e le isole vicine, storicamente realizzata durante il secondo 
viaggio di Colombo (1493-1496), é presentata nei canti XIII-XVII. Nei quattro 
canti che seguono (cc. XVIII-XXI) assistiamo alla riscossa e definitiva sconfitta 


Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 135 


dell’ Inferno. L’ultima parte copre, anacronisticamente per la verosimiglianza 
storica, la conquista del Messico completata dal Cortés nel 1525, venti anni circa 
dopo la morte di Colombo e dieci dopo quella del re Fedinando. 

La struttura del testo al livello della fabula, e cioé del contenuto riordinato in 
ordine logico e cronologico, @ quella comune agli altri poemi epici post- 
tasseschi, di tipo opposizionale: da una parte, c’é |’Inferno, c’é Plutone e il 
Panteon infernale (la Gorgona, le Furie, ecc.) ma rappresentato soprattuto da 
divinita indigene (le Fate, i Cimi, ecc.); dall’altra, il Cielo, Cristo e Dio Padre 
che intervengono per intercessione della Vergine, gli angeli e i santi della 
Chiesa; in mezzo, re Ferdinando e Colombo, che ascoltano ed eseguono la 
volonta divina e diventano cosi i portavoce del destino del mondo (I, 161-176). Il 
confronto con i modelli fa affiorare nel Giorgini un’idea di costruzione del 
racconto che non é piu riportabile alla struttura chiusa della peregrinatio, ma 
neppure assimilabile alla struttura aperta dell’erranza del poema cavalleresco. 

Bisogna guardarsi da una eccessiva schematizzazione dell’opera. I] Giorgini 
non abbandona la tradizione ariostesca; sente forte e perdurante attrazione per 
l’avventura (se non per I’erotico che é ridotto al minimo), per le invenzioni 
magiche e leggendarie della tradizione cavalleresca. A molti eventi e personaggi 
storici attribuisce 1 caratteri e 1 colori della cavalleria (per esempio, il capitano 
Salazar che fa la corte e sposa la regina delle Amazzoni, XVII, 28-83). Il poema, 
in secondo luogo, presenta lunghe digressioni avventurose (la storia dei naufraghi 
di una delle caravelle smarrite durante la tempesta, X, 5-59);° prolissi indugi 
descrittivi (per esempio, le lunghe digressioni pseudo-scientifiche di 
antropologia, zoologia, botanica, cosmografia e metereologia infarcite di 
elementi fantastici);’ momenti di tedio proprio nei lunghi episodi di 
meraviglioso mitologico di pill stretta osservanza omerico-virgiliana (per 
esempio, il concilio infernale, I, 74-89; la gran fame causata dalle forze infernali, 
XII, 21-35) o nelle scene del meraviglioso di matrice romanzesca (per esempio, 
le Furie e i mostri vari incontrati nel viaggio verso il nuovo mondo, VIII, 86- 
137; re Ferdinando provvisto di armi fatate e dello specchio magico che riflette le 
profezie genealogico-encomiastiche, XIX, 50-51). 

La tipologia e la distribuzione del meraviglioso tendono ad individuare nel 
poema due aree contigue ben distinte: il soprannaturale celeste e quello infernale. 
E sintomatico che gia nel canto I (concilio infernale, 10-62) le fate Apestia e 
Erctontea, associate con la religione degl’indigeni, cerchino di assicurarsi la 
collaborazione delle forze infernali con una discesa nell’oltretomba. Questa 
iniziativa da il via al movimento ritardante del soprannaturale diabolico, 


6 Steiner 40, per il quale il Giorgini deriva da Gonzalo d’Oviedo, Historia delle Indie, X, 10 e sgg. 
la storia di una nave smarrita e ritrovata da Colombo; e ancora, Steiner 47-49, l’episodio del 
marinaio naufrago che crede di essere sceso nell’Inferno, II, 37-40. 

Cfr. su questo aspetto dell’epica colombiana la stroncatura del Busenello, specialmente son. 
XXI, VI in Livingston 144-150, 151. 


156 Albert N. Mancini 


identificato tout court con le credenze religiose e i riti pagani degli amerindi, che, 
a sua volta, provoca l’intervento del soprannaturale celeste, rappresentato 
anzitutto dalla Vergine Maria, protettrice di re Ferdinando e di Colombo. Di 
Plutone e delle forze infernali, descritte con dovizia di particolari, si serviranno 
ancora le deita indigene nel tentativo futile di evitare la scontata vittoria degli 
invasori: nel canto XVIII, Plutone viene evocato dai Maghi di Montezuma con 
sacrifici umani. E mi piace ricordare almeno un altro esempio di delega al 
meraviglioso soprannaturale di matrice infernale tradizionale della funzione di 
ritardare lo svolgersi della favola del poema, secondo un piano antiprovvidenziale 
dunque: la visita di Erctontea all’Ozio (c. I). 

Le forze infernali svolgono una funzione dialettica di antitesi, perché il 
processo si risolve sempre nella sua finalita preordinata. La storia diventa quindi 
la realizzazione di un disegno divino prefissato, é storia sacra, in cui tutto si 
Carica di significati metastorici e tutti diventano attori necessari, anche quelli che 
cercano di ostacolame il corso, trascinati da una colpa o travolti da un misterioso 
ed insondabile volere. Questa struttura ideologica profonda incide nella 
composizione del poema sul piano narrativo. Sarebbe errato considerarla una 
mera tecnica compositiva mentre é un effetto del consolidarsi della politica 
egemone degli anni sessanta del secolo, sia nelle sue lotte contro la Riforma 
protestante, sia in quella condotta per il rinnovamento delle proprie strutture al 
fine di renderle pit efficaci nella conquista delle anime e di un pit saldo potere 
anche politico. Con il Giorgini questa politica é gia dunque consolidata. Il poeta 
epico vede l’affermarsi del principio dell’ autorita, dell’intransigenza dogmatica, 
del carattere militante e propagandistico delle ideologie in lotta senza crisi e 
rotture, contrariamente quindi a quanto avviene nella Liberata del Tasso. 


2. Anche le strutture che presiedono alla tipologia caratteriale sono condizionate 
dalla ideologia. L’ideologia monarchica, gerarchica richiede che si parli di re 
Ferdinando prima ancora che di Colombo, del detentore del potere prima ancora 
che del navigatore al servizio dei Re Cattolici. Merita di essere menzionata a tal 
proposito la riserva avanzata dal Tassoni nella citata lettera ad Agazio di Somma 
contro la scelta per il poema colombiano di modelli quali l’Eneide e la 
Gerusalemme liberata. 11 Tassoni raccomanda |’Odissea, come pit! consono ad 
esprimere il tema fortunoso della navigazione di Colombo; sostiene che il genere 
oceanico dovrebbe puntare pili sui motivi dell’avventura e del meraviglioso.® 

Gli obblighi connessi con la necessita di delineare le strutture della fabula 
intorno alla figura di un personaggio, l’eroe cristiano, risultarono di difficile 


8 Cer. D’ Agostino 19. Sotto questo profilo risulta utile ]’attuale discussione sul consenso verso lo 
stato, visto dalla prospettiva della regalita, della separazione o fusione della persona e dell’ufficio 
del re, su cui cfr. Bertelli, /! corpo del Re e la classica opera del Kantorowicz (1957), reperibile 
ora anche in traduzione italiana, / due corpi del Re. Re Ferdinando é il protagonista di un poema di 
Onofrio degli Onofri edito nel 1613 (Belloni 433). 





Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 157 


codificazione e realizzazione per i poeti epici del secondo Cinquecento che pur 
assunsero un compito di mediazione e di rinnovamento nell’ intento di procurare 
un’idea 0 immagine esemplare di principe cristiano, a ridosso delle imprese di 
Prévesa (1538) e di Lepanto (1571). 

Ferdinando incarna, come il Goffredo tassesco, la figura del capo della 
Controriforma.? Tutti gli attributi dai quali @ contrassegnato hanno il valore 
d’indicazioni che valgono a definire i fondamenti stessi del potere autorizzato. II 
fine moralistico generale del poema é rafforzato dalla fisionomia dell’ eroe ritratto 
come perfetto esemplare di “virti” cristiane (costanza, perserveranza, sacrificio, 
obbedienza alla volonta divina). Questa investitura ha un evidente valore 
simbolico: segnando la netta distinzione politica e morale fra re Ferdinando e 
quelli che lo seguono in questa crociata e simultaneamente la cessazione della 
compresenza paritetica di codici diversi di condotta. Questa originaria condizione 
strutturale di “re benigno e pio” (XV, 30) & resa molto esplicita nel poema. 
Ferdinando prende possesso del nuovo mondo in una elaborata e macchinosa 
allegoria della incoronazione ad opera di sette donzelle (III, 41 sgg.). E fondatore 
di citta e da nomi ai territori conquistati (XIII, 35, 36; XV, 27). Governatore 
delle Nuove Indie (XI, 21-23) impone la sottomissione e la conversione come 
condizioni del perdono reale degli indiani rivoltosi nell’isola di Hispaniola (XV, 
22 sgg). Ferdinando é organizzatore solerte e sagace della spedizione militare 
contro gli Aztechi (XXII, 19-24; XXIII, 68-71). Monarca della Controriforma é 
pieno di regalita nelle cerimonie militari (III, 102-111), porta il peso maggiore 
della tematica epico-religiosa. Il Re Cattolico é l’uomo della Provvidenza (IV, 
14); é l’intermediario fra la divinita e i partecipanti all’impresa voluta dal Cielo, 
é lorganizzatore delle tante funzioni sacre sparse nell’opera (esorcizza il 
demonio, XXI, 87; presiede alle cerimonie religiose, XIX, 87 e XXII, 8-18; 
prega fervidamente, XIII, 1-2; fa voti alla Madonna prima della partenza per il 
viaggio in America, VIII, 12-14; scioglie il voto di portare la vera fede e il culto 
della Madonna nel nuovo mondo, XXIV, 120). 

Sotto il profilo del protagonismo, cioé dei connotati e delle motivazioni, re 
Ferdinando rimane un non-personaggio; al di 1a degli attributi del modello 
dell’eroe epico non ci viene offerto alcun tratto decifrabile, capace di renderlo 
“persona”, d’innestarlo in qualsiasi rapporto d’interazione che sia prodotto di un 
sua iniziativa. Anche dal punto di vista della codificazione semantica del 
personaggio protagonista rimane confermata l’incidenza all’interno delle 
strutture, ideologiche o narrative, del poema del meraviglioso. Attraverso tutto il 
poema il re viene salvato da mortali pericoli; viene assistito e fortificato prima 
ancora della partenza per il nuovo mondo in una specie di investitura divina, dalle 
virtii cardinali e teologali (VIII, 33-85); confortato dall’apparizione della Vergine; 


9 Un’utile introduzione alla problematica ideologico-culturale posta dal personaggio di Goffredo 
offre ancora Getto, Nel mondo della Gerusalemme 9-85. Cfr. anche le pagine di Chiappelli, // 
conoscitore del caos 93-137. 


158 Albert N. Mancini 


provvisto di armi fatate (XIX, 51 100-102); edotto tramite uno specchio magico 
sul futuro della Spagna e della sua dinastia (XX, 1-103).!° 

Non meno ampio proporzionalmente si mostra nel Mondo nuovo 
giorginiano lo spazio riservato a Colombo. Varia si presenta la tipologia di 
qualita e attributi legati alla caratterizzazione del suo personaggio. La pit 
eclatante é il suo ruolo di uomo politico, configurato come controfigura di re 
Ferdinando (V, 4-16; XI, 6-16; XV, 50-57; XVI, 31-38; XVII, 94-101). 
Naturalmente, Colombo é oratore facondo ed efficace, alla maniera degli archetipi 
di Goffredo e di Ulisse. Si legga la sua “orazione picciola” alla ciurma della nave 
ammiraglia che minaccia di ammutinarsi durante il primo viaggio (VII, 23-27). 
Portavoce dell’ideologia ma anche della ragione strategica del re, Colombo riceve 
da Ferdinando il comando della campagna contro le fiere popolazioni caribe: 
“Molto al Re piacque cosi bel discorso/ Di si grand huomo, e a punto si 
dispone,/ D’eseguir quanto quel suo bel corso/ Del suo parlare avanti li propone./ 
. ../ Rivoltossi ver lui qual Faraone,/ Al prudente Giuseppe, e qual pit dotto/ 
Di te (disse) serra nel tuo ridotto?/ A te dunque il mio scettro, e il mio Impero/ 
In tal guerra concedo, a tuo volere/ Regilo, indrizza, qual’a te sentiero/ Pit 
agrada, prendi, adopra il mio potere” (XVI, 39-40). E ancora: con pesante 
manomissione storica, il Giorgini elegge 1’Ammiraglio del Mare Oceano a 
protagonista della vittoria navale su Plutone e le forze infernali al culmine della 
campagna messicana, in cui si rivela anche esperto di strategia subacquea (XXI, 
41-52). Colombo non é solo un consigliere ma si comporta a tratti quasi quale 
compartecipe del potere regio, come nell’interessante episodio del sogno 
premonitore che gli permette di essere informato delle difficolt4 nelle quali versa 
il suo re mentre é@ ancora in Ispagna, intento ad organizzarvi il suo terzo 
viaggio.!! 

Il Colombo del Giorgini, oltre che la pietas e il valore dei suoi modelli, 
possiede ampia esperienza di navigatore; é lo scopritore delle stelle viste “dalla 
prima gente”, come si legge in un passo di evidente imitazione dantesca (II, 92- 
99). Esperto di navigazione e perito di scienza contemporanea (“cosmografo 


10 Cfr. Je puntuali osservazioni su Goffredo nella Conquistata del Godard nel suo saggio del 1987. 
Secondo lo studioso francese, nella Conquistata s’indebolisce il ruolo di Goffredo come capo 
politico, il ruolo del capo laico della crociata diminuisce per l’importanza maggiore attribuita alla 
Chiesa e all’ideologia religiosa. 

11 «Saluta il buon Colombo e curvo al Rege/ Bacia la veste, e quel tosto l’abbraccia,/ E da terra 
solleva, e in alto rege,/ E insiem avinti con le mani, e braccia/ Vanno adorar colui, ch’immota lege/ 
Pose la terra, e al mar, e quel che giacci/ Dentro di lui, e sua benigna Madre,/ Che le gratie fa a lor 
alme, e leggiadre./ In luoco pid secreto indi ritratti/ Il Colombo adimanda, quai travagli/ Havvin 
patiti. . . . / Il Re tutto gl’espon, e poi s’ammira,/ Ch’egli di cid non prenda meraviglia,/ Ma quel da 
lo stupor cosi nitira;/ Se ben lungi so stato molte miglia/ Pur de vostri travagli (0 cosa mira)/ Parte ho 
sentito fin dentro Siviglia,/ E pit volte sognando mi sei apparso,/ Narrandomi il dolor ch’intomo hai 
sparso” (XV, 35-37). Interessante, dicevo, anche per gli echi delle testimonianze dei 
contemporanei sulle visioni che il Colombo storico aveva o diceva di avere. Cfr. le lettere di 
Michele di Cuneo, membro della seconda spedizione, in Raccolta colombiana, parte III, vol. II. 





Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 159 


perfetto, e studioso d’ogni scientia”, VI, 25), Colombo disquisisce con teologi e 
scienziati per ottenere il loro riconoscimento (VI, 81-102) e supera difficolta 
indicibili per assicurarsi aiuti dalla corte spagnola (VI, 103-121). Giorgini 
considera la scoperta del nuovo continente una conseguenza della cultura 
scientifica rinascimentale italiana. Nella costruzione del modello giorginiano di 
Colombo ci s’imbatte naturalmente nei topoi comparativi di derivazione 
letteraria, Colombo/Tifi (VI, 79-83; VII, 26, 103) e Colombo/Giasone (VII, 84- 
85), semplificati del terzo membro, Galileo, la cui presenza diventa preminente 
nei testi secenteschi. Le invenzioni dei mitografi diventano “testo” e vanno ad 
impollinarsi nei sincretismi del folclore e dell’immaginario letterario, che a loro 
volta restituiscono alimento alle finzioni epiche.!” 

Dopo quanto si é andato dicendo non ci sorprende di trovare un’apologia 
della famiglia di Colombo (XIV, 74-79). Vero é che dopo un secolo circa di 
cauto silenzio, negli ultimi decenni del Cinquecento la Chiesa si faceva 
promotrice di un’intensa riabilitazione della figura di Colombo nel suo piano di 
adattare le proprie strutture alla mutata immagine del mondo e di ricevere nella 
cristianita anche i popoli delle nuove terre. Nel 1622 viene istituita la 
confraternita De Propaganda Fide con il proposito di riplasmare 1’immagine 
dell’ America secondo ideali religiosi e correggere i malintesi causati dagli orrori 
perpetrati dai conquistatori nelle terre americane. Il nuovo mondo non aveva 
ancora un simbolo di evangelismo paragonabile ai propagatori del cristianesimo 
nell’occidente nei primi secoli del Medioevo. La figura di Colombo, “eroe 
spagnolo” ma con forti legami all’Italia, si prestava bene ad essere inserita in 
un’interpretazione provvidenziale della scoperta: egli era stato prescelto da Dio 
per propagare il Vangelo nel nuovo continente. Giovanni Botero, secondo il 
Romeo il pili significativo scrittore italiano di cose americane nel secondo 
Cinquecento, si riferixy a Colombo come a un apostolo la cui vita era stata 
simile a quella di un martire.!3 Cosi nel canto VII assistiamo al fatidico sbarco 
dell’Ammiraglio del Mare Oceano: “A mezo giorno dentro a una di quelle/ 
Smonto il Colombo, con l’insegna in spalla,/ Dove ritratto havea con varie e 
belle/ Pitture, qual rossa, e qual si vedea gialla,/ Ricamato d’or fino in varie 
stelle,/ Christo, ch’a l’hor dal ciel’a terra avalla,/ E piangendo canto Il’hinno, che 
santo/ Ambrogio, e Agostin compose in canto” (VII, 87). Colombo non é 
soltanto un conquistatore, o semplicemente uno scopritore, ma un banditore della 
fede, che completa un piano provvidenziale a cui invano |’Inferno tenta opporsi. 


3. Non mi fermerd qui sulle peripezie delle fonti documentarie, perché mi manca, 


12 Cfr., per esempio, Marino, Adone, X, 42-45. Sul parallelo Colombo-Galileo si veda Aquilecchia 
89-95 e, in questo volume, Battistini. 

Sul motivo geografico della diffusione della Chiesa in tutti i continenti nel Cinquecento, rimando 
all’articolo della Zito nel presente volume e al cap. III della monografia di Romeo 39-53. Su 
Colombo, la sua religiosita e le sue convinzioni salvifiche, cfr. il recente volume del Kadir. 


160 Albert N. Mancini 


per parlarne, lo spazio necessario e, a questo punto delle mie ricerche, anche tutta 
l’informazione necessaria. Del resto, lo Steiner ha messo in rilievo l’approccio 
sincretico del Giorgini; ha fornito alcune esemplificazioni puntuali della 
utilizzazione di fonti particolari sulle credenze religiose degli amerindi, insistendo 
sulla comunanza delle fonti sulla scoperta e conquista del nuovo continente nei 
due poemi del Giorgini e dello Stigliani e, con intento polemico troppo marcato, 
sulla dipendenza di quest’ ultimo dal suo predecessore (21, 24-28, 39-59). 

Né staro a discorrere delle lunghe digressioni pseudoscientifiche di geografia, 
etnologia, zoologia, botanica, cosmologia e metereologia, infarcite di elementi 
fantastici, del poema; a ripercorrerne il catalogo enciclopedico di mirabilia 
mutuato dalle relazioni degli esploratori e dei cronisti di viaggio nel continente 
nuovo. Le sfumature di questo ampio testo risulterebbero pressoché inesauribili 
ad un vaglio pil attento, anche se, per la verita, la qualita delle didascalie 
illustrative @ piuttosto mediocre, perché il Giorgini si limita a rimaneggiare, 
scorciando fonti moderne e classiche senza quasi alcuna originalita, come si pud 
osservare a proposito delle descrizioni della terra ferma o Peru (III, 14-29); di 
Haiti e dei suoi abitanti (III, 55-80); di Cuba e delle isole vicine (IX, 24-43); 
della citta, del palazzo e della corte di Montezuma (V, 29-48); dei pescicani e 
degli uccelli pescatori (X, 65-71); delle origini della sifilide (XI, 90-98); 
dell’iguana (XII, 16-18); dell’albero che produce il “legno santo” (XIII, 23-30). 

Cio che conta nel nostro caso é sottolineare che un genere “alto” come 
quello epico non soltanto impegnava un confronto con produzioni dalle origini 
ben pili basse come diari, relazioni di viaggi, isolani, ma mostrava una sua 
speciale, diffusa e quasi genetica, vitalita. Convinti della loro missione, nutriti 
dai testi letterari, specialmente l’epica, che celebravano il destino imperiale della 
nazione eletta, gli esploratori e conquistatori non potevano non interpretare gli 
eventi d’oltre Oceano se non conformandosi ai modelli mitici che le loro 
letterature offrivano. Per converso, i poeti epici non potevano non filtrare i fatti 
e dati riferiti nelle fonti sulle scoperte attraverso gli schemi della tradizione 
epica.!4 

Pit degne di riflessione, particolarmente nella ricorrenza del cinquecentenario 
della scoperta, mi sembrano le molte pagine dedicate ai pit importanti aspetti 
interni del contenuto storico-ideologico. Entrando di pit in questi contenuti, cosa 
che qui non posso fare estesamente, la personalita dell’autore risulterebbe forse 
piu netta, ma bastera qui vedere a quali elementi viene dato rilievo preminente 
nel quadro dei problemi nati dall’incontro tra Europa e Nuovo Mondo: rifiuto 
dell’“altro” e mito del buon selvaggio, rilancio dell’intolleranza religiosa e le 
origini dell’umanesimo cristiano, dibattito sulla schiavith e nascita del diritto 
naturale. D’altra parte sono in tutto trascurabili in questa sede le pur altrimenti 
interessanti parti che enfatizzano il carattere trionfalistico-encomiastico e anche 


14 sulla questione delle influenze letterarie sulla letteratura della conquista rimando all’ormai 
classico volume del Padrén. 


Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 161 


propagandistico del Mondo nuovo giorginiano, le pil esposte, anche 
strutturalmente, a sollecitazioni di natura prammatica che attenuano 
ulteriormente la non straordinaria qualita poetica dell’ opera.!° 

Costante ideologica della poesia del Giorgini é la ricerca del consenso al 
clima trionfalistico romano nell’eta della Controriforma piena, al quale lo 
scrittore si conforma con piena convinzione.!® Come si é visto, la dimensione 
temporale nella quale s’inserisce l’avventura dell’eroe epico, o meglio dei due 
eroi epici, re Ferdinando e Colombo, é salvifica, provvidenziale. Lo Steiner, 
ripreso in seguito da altri, lamenta la predominanza nella produzione del Cinque- 
Seicento del tema della conquista su quello della scoperta e crede di poter 
individuare, come d’uso nella critica positivista, un progresso nell’epica 
colombiana perché a mano a mano che si passa ai poemi dell’Ottocento 
comincerebbe a prevalere il tema della scoperta e si assisterebbe ad una 
reinterpretazione della figura di Colombo, esploratore e non pil primo dei 
conquistatori spagnoli, “nobile scopritore” invece “che avventuroso 
conquistatore” (Steiner 36-37, 61, 65, 85). Ma gia il Tassoni nella citata lettera- 
manifesto “sulla materia del Mondo Nuovo” ad Agazio di Somma, che gli aveva 
inviato in lettura i primi due canti di un suo poema sulla scoperta dell’ America, 
critica severamente gli epici colombiani che lo avevano preceduto, insiste che si 
scriva di Colombo navigatore piuttosto che conquistatore, “piuttosto gran 
prudente che gran guerriero”, un Colombo-Ulisse invece che un Colombo-Enea o 
Colombo-Goffredo.'” 

Una proposta d’interpretazione storica revisionista é offerta da Djelal Kadir 
nel suo recente polemico intervento sulla questione della scoperta/conquista. Per 
il Kadir la scoperta verrebbe realizzata in base ad un’ideologia di conquista. La 
tesi, consacrata nel canone storico, secondo cui il nuovo mondo fu prima 
scoperto e poi conquistato, va rifiutata, perché la conquista antecede la scoperta 
ed era gia bene avviata prima dell’incontro fisico con il nuovo continente. Le 
Capitolazioni di Santa Fe, rilasciate dai re Cattolici a Colombo il 17 aprile 
1492, e cioé prima della partenza per il primo viaggio, sarebbero il prototipo 
letterario, il paradigma della patente che autorizza alla conquista. Questa forma di 
auto-appropriazione di potere, che costituirebbe il presupposto delle esplorazioni, 
non é esclusiva dell’Europa occidentale e del Cristianesimo, ma il fatto rimane 
che per quanto concerne il nuovo mondo 1’Europa occidentale con la sua 


15 per esempio, la celebrazione dei recenti successi militari e politici (Granada, Napoli, Lepanto, 
Fiandre), della Spagna (XX, 1-72); l’apologia della progenie di re Ferdinando (XX, 97-103); le 
lodi della famiglia Colombo, XIV, 74-79. 

Cfr. l’apologia della curia di fine secolo, XX, 73-96, specialmente i cardinali Sforza, Monte, e 
Altobrandini. 

Per un esame della lettera rinvio ancora a D’ Agostino 18-20. Cfr. anche Steiner 68, che in nota 
rimanda a Le glorie degli Incogniti (Venezia: F. Valsanense, 1647) 253 a proposito di G. M. Vanti, 
autore di un poema manoscritto intitolato J/ mondo nuovo, imitato dall’ Odissea. 


162 Albert N. Mancini 


ideologia dominante é l’agente particolare direttamente coinvolto nel processo.!® 

Per restare pill vicino al nostro tema, sintomatica mi pare la scelta da parte 
del Giorgini, come argomento principale del suo poema, del secondo viaggio di 
Colombo con il quale si fa cominciare l’eredita coloniale spagnola di conquista e 
di conversione religiosa forzata.!? Non basta: il Giorgini contravvenendo alle 
convenzioni che il poema epico della seconda meta del Cinquecento portava 
dentro di sé, l’esigenza del rispetto del dato storico, del “verosimile”, include nel 
poema la conquista del Messico (1519-1525) a cui vengono dedicati gli ultimi tre 
canti, facendovi partecipare attivamente per di pil sia Colombo che re 
Ferdinando, morti rispettivamente nel 1506 e nel 1516. Nel poema é Ferdinando 
a incaricare il Cortés dell’impresa: “E ch’abbi gia col suo [di Ferdinando] 
pensiero eletto/Per capitano il degno, egregio, e forte/Ferdinando Cortese a tal 
effetto,/. . ./Lieto il Cortese accetta il nobile grado,/ E di cotanto honor le gratie 
rende/ Al suo Signor, che di nomarlo a grado/Fu per tal carco . . .” (XXII, 23- 
24) 2° 

Per introdurre il sistema ideologico e ricostruire il senso storico dell’opera 
del Giorgini, si prenda l’episodio delle Amazzoni, abitatrici solitarie e feroci 
dell’isola di Matitino nel mar dei Caraibi, un mito poetico fra i pit persistenti e 
noti della conquista e presente gia nel cosidetto Diario di Colombo, che 
testimonia dell’incontro di due filoni tradizionali: la leggenda delle Amazzoni e la 
rappresentazione utopica.”! Il re del Borichen, odierno Porto Rico, alleato degli 
Spagnoli, si offre di servire da intermediario fra Colombo e le donne guerriere, e 
sbarcato nella “ignuda, ed erma” loro dimora, riesce a vincerne I’iniziale ostilita 
con donativi vari, made in Spain: “Collane di cristallo, e aghi, e spille,/ Cuffie 
da donne, e lavorate liste,/ Camiscie, e vesti, e con lor altre mille/ Cose mostro, 
mai pili da lor non viste,/ Come sonagli, e picciolette squille,/ Et altre cose di 
vaghezza ammiste”, tutte atte insomma a risvegliare il loro “feminil cuore”, gia 
opportunamente predisposto, bisogna precisare, da abbondanti libagioni (“Cosi 
dicendo di spumante vino/ Tracanna una gran coppa, o fosse Greco,/ Over 
Trebiano, 0 Moscatel pit fino,/ Et invitd ciascuna a bever seco”). Un regolare 


18 Kadir 62-68. Altrove (79), l’autore precisa di non voler ridurre l’espansionismo imperiale 
occidentale ad un complotto papista. Anche gli antipapisti operano sotto l’egida della stessa 
sanzione ideologica. Vengono menzionate le patenti-carte rilasciate dalla Regina Elisabetta a 
Humphrey Gilbert e Walter Raleigh (91). 

In particolare Sale 128-129. Sulla recente storiografia colombiana revisionista sia consentito 
rinviare al mio saggio “Nuovo e Vecchio Mondo.” 

Lo Steiner (121) ricorda che lo Stigliani raccomanda al figlio di scrivere un poema sulla 

conquista del Messico. Per una denuncia della conquista nell’area dell’epica oceanica bisognera 
attendere i poemi di Bemardo Bellini (1826) e di Lorenzo Costa (1846) (Steiner 108-109). 
21 Il Cro nell’articolo “Campanella e Colombo” 300-301, menziona le annotazioni del 6, 13, 15, 16 
gennaio e del 14 febbraio del 1493. L’antecedente intertestuale pit: ovvio é il famoso episodio 
delle donne omicide nell’Orlando furioso (XIX, 54-108; XX, 1-990), su cui si veda ora l’ampio 
studio della Piéjus. Pid in particolare, sui giudizi dei viaggiatori europei sulle donne amerindie, cfr. 
Boglio e Lehmann. 





Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 163 


party promozionale, allestito da un esperto di public relations, che accelera i 
tempi dell’acculturazione in modo meraviglioso: “Gia donne divenute, ogni 
fierezza/ Lasciata, humanamente eran trattando/ Col Ré, sempre maggior 
dimestichezza,/ Sempre pit affabil volto a lui mostrando” (XVII, 36-40). Dopo 
di che all’intraprendente capo indiano non rimane che completare la sua missione 
con una faconda orazione sui vantaggi dell’alleanza con i conquistatori, ispirata 
alle istanze razionali della pit’ aggiornata “ragion di stato” di stampo tardo- 
rinascimentale, diretta alla regina delle donne guerriere. Gli Spagnoli sono 
favoriti “dal pi: supremo fato”, perché dispongono, oltre che di armi micidiali, 
come i cannoni, anche di un libro “dove si pose/ Cid, ch’al Ciel piace, e cid 
ch’habbia esser casso/ In questa terra, a cui s’alcun sia, ch’ose/ Ostar, debba 
perir, o restar lasso,/ Che sol colui il ben prender con mano/ Potra, che legge 
havra, che ha il Christiano” (XVII, 43-44). Parlando per “‘prova” ed esibendo, per 
buona misura, il capo mozzato del temuto cacicco dei Caraibi sconfitti, il solerte 
ambasciatore confessa che l’esperienza gl’insegna che “Meglio é@ chinarsi 
alquanto, che disteso/Rotto in terra giacer”, tanto pit che gl’invasori sono 
disposti a condividere in pace i beni comuni ad un costo veramente modesto, 
considerando che le bellicose donne non hanno altra scelta (XVII, 57-59): la 
rinuncia alle loro selvagge costumanze di cibarsi di carne umana e di procacciarsi 
maschi con la violenza (XVII, 53-54). Per soddisfare a quest’ ultimo bisogno, i 
tanto pil avanzati liberatori hanno provveduto con il matrimonio e la 
legittimazione della prole come si legge nella seguente, molto esplicita apologia 
del sistema patriarcale predominante nel Vecchio Mondo: “Vol’ il supremo Iddio, 
ch’a I’huom soggetta/ La donna sia, ad un sol marito intenta,/ Non che per serva, 
oO schiava si sommetta,/ Ma con gran liberta a quello acconsenta,/ Che rega 
anch’ella dal marito retta,/ Et adiutorio a quel tosto si senta,/ II primo egli sera, 
quella seconda,/ E sol attender dé a sua prol feconda./ Questa sua prol indubitata, 
e certa,/ Che d’ambedui il ritratto in se ritiene,/ Herede sia d’ogni suo ben. . .” 
(XVII, 55-56). Vorrei rassicurare i lettori, che non hanno la pazienza o il tempo 
di attingere direttamente alle rimanenti trenta ottave dell’episodio. La conclusione 
della storia, ispirata a tanto zelo missionario, sortisce |’esito desiderato: la regina 
delle Amazzoni caribe sposa il prode generale spagnolo Salazar, dopo 
un’altrettanto assidua quanto cavalleresca corte (una versione americana del 
motivo della bella infedele, presente in tanti testi cavallereschi); le guerriere sue 
suddite accettano con entusiasmo di neofite i doni di “vino, e frumento, e carni 
buone”, gli “habiti civili” e le acconciature all’ultima moda, spagnola s’intende 
(XVII, 68-69), oltre che i dettami della fede religiosa dei conquistatori, 
nonostante sia di difficile comprensione a detta dell’autore: “Un buono e degno, e 
santo sacerdote/ Che nome haveva Vincenzo Corbante,/ [Colombo] Lasci6 ch’a 
lor mostrasse le vie ignote/ Di nostra fede, qual volge le piante/ Nostre al 
sublime pol, se degna dote/ Di speme, e charita con l’opre sante/ Havra; dott’era 


164 Albert N. Mancini 


assai costui, eloquente,/ Placido nel trattar con l’altra gente” (XVII, 83). 

Di qualche rilievo per un confronto é forse richiamare |’attenzione del lettore 
allo svolgimento dell’episodio delle Amazzoni nel Mondo nuovo dello Stigliani. 
Nel canto XVIII, Silvarte, uno dei campioni cristiani, e Pinesta, regina delle 
guerriere caribe, rivali sul campo di battaglia, s’innamorano e decidono di 
sposarsi. La regina, debitamente convertita, cospira per consegnare la capitale del 
suo stato ai nemici ma il piano fallisce e viene condannata a morte (XX, 30-32). 
Silvarte viene a sua volta segato in due tronconi e rispedito agli Spagnoli in un 
sacco (XX, 68-69). L’inevitabile rappresaglia dei conquistatori é esemplare: 
catturata la citta, tutte le senatrici vengono trucidate (XX, 145-158) in una specie 
di rito espiatorio.”? 

Infine, sul piano delle strutture ideologiche del poema dovrebbe servire 
ancora da spia il breve episodio della liberazione ed evangelizzazione, nel nome di 
Maria, dei prigionieri dei Caribi sull’isola appropriatamente ribattezzata Santa 
Croce, che si legge nello stesso canto XVII (19-24), di cui si stralcia il passo pit 
rilevante: “Tutti prostrati in terra, e visi chini/ Havendo con le voci alte, e 
superne/ Adoraro non men, che noi Latini/ Facciam, havendo in lor tutte 
l’interne/ cure raccolte, e a tutti suoi bambini/ Fanno baciare, e da quelle caverne/ 
Furon ritratti, e liberta fu data/ Tutta l’insul’a lor fu destinata” (23). Una 
variante, interessante per la quasi assoluta assenza nell’opera del Giorgini di 
episodi d’amore, é offerta dal caso della regina indigena, mezzo fattucchiera ma 
anche molto europeizzata, che si converte per amore di un cavaliere aragonese e 
viene in aiuto agli Spagnoli durante la carestia: “Sovranda era il mio nome, hor 
Catherina,/ Infidele gia fui, hor son Christiana,/ Per mio Consorte die’ sorte 
divina/ Un nobil Cavalier, ch’é de l’humana,/ E vostra gentil gente, e peregrina” 
(XII, 56). Un’altra versione del motivo epico della bella infedele. La superiorita 
dei conquistatori sugl’indigeni indiani non é solo culturale e tecnologica ma 
anzitutto spirituale. Gli Spagnoli sono i detentori della verita rivelata, come 
ribadisce Gonzalo d’Oviedo nella sua ambasceria ai cacicchi di Hispaniola: 
“Molti beni habbiam noi, che possiam dare/ A voi del corpo, o d’instabil 
fortuna,/ D’animo, o quei che il Ciel suol rimandare/. . . ..Ma quel che importa 
piu, del vero Iddio/ Habbiam notitia, e come alma beata/ Si renda quivi, e da 
l’eterno oblio/ Come debba scampar, nel Ciel entrata/ Apparecchiarsi con un 
viver pio,/ Dove felice egl’habbia ogni giornata,/ Tutti i mali fuggir sappiamo, e 
1 bene/ Seguir, dolor fuggendo e aspre pene” (IV, 21-23). E di nuovo l’Oviedo 


22 Onwin Sauer (95) menziona il decreto reale del 23 aprile 1497 nel quale si prescrive di 
accogliere in benigna soggezione gl’indiani e soprattutto di convertirli alla fede cattolica, ma 
avverte pero che il lavoro di proselizzazione da parte di missionari comincera anni dopo. Colombo 
stesso discute il problema nel memoriale sul suo secondo viaggio ai Re Cattolici consegnato a 
Antonio Torres (30 gennaio 1494). Si veda l’edizione a cura di Martinetto 18. 

Seguo qui Pieri, Per Marino 206-213. Nell’articolato studio sul Mondo nuovo il critico nota la 
modestia inventiva, la vocazione prosastica, la generale propensione dello Stigliani alle parentesi 
episodiche, con spunti novellistici, e soprattutto il sadismo di certi brani crudeli. 


Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 165 


che ci offre un impegnato intervento sulla stessa tematica nel discorso tenuto nel 
concilio dei campioni cristiani quasi a conclusione dell’opera (XXIII, 8-17). E 
tutto da trascrivere sarebbe l’intervento del domenicano Bernardo di Mesa 
all’assemblea dei capi cristiani, convocata da re Ferdinando per decidere sulla 
guerra contro Montezuma (XIX, 73-87). Un’operazione ideologica quindi, quella 
del Giorgini, volta a magnificare il potere e le tesi trionfalistiche cattoliche, 
come evidenzia la frequenza con cui ricorrono le prese di posizione di questo 
genere, messe in bocca ai protagonisti dell’epica impresa. Per limitarmi ad un 
esempio trascrivo un’ottava del rassicurante discorso sui vantaggi del nuovo ordo 
hispanicus tenuto dal Cortés ai capi messicani della provincia di Curultelcal a lui 
arresisi: “Ma Iddio permise accio voi chiari, e certi/ Foste del suo valor, ch’egli 
ci presta;/ Dei non siam noi, ma di valori esperti/ Il vero Iddio adoriam, che 
manifesta/ La sua gratia per noi, che gl’alti e erti/ Habita Ciel, ch’il Sole, e la 
tempesta/ Rege a sua voglia, e quel, che crede a lui/ Premia nel Ciel, tolto da i 
regni bui” (XII, 83). 

Sullo sfondo di questa linea tematica principale si colloca la serie di 
osservazioni del Giorgini sulle particolarita di credenze, riti e costumi religiosi 
degl’indigeni. Uno dei testi pil interessanti per rendersi conto della religiosita 
degli amerindi, é certamente il canto XVIII che, come si é visto nella sinossi 
proposta pili sopra, rappresenta, strutturalmente, l’ultima riscossa dell’ Inferno 
contro il Cielo. Nella prima parte (1-46), c’é la storia della maga Apestia, che, 
assunte le sembianze di una fattucchiera, persuade tutta la popolazione di 
Hispaniola, pit d’un milione di anime, a commettere un suicidio ritualistico 
collettivo: “Spesso da me voi udiste, e i0 l’ho udito/ Da nostri almi Cemi, Dei 
a noi grati,/ Che dopo questa vita un’altro lito/ Ritroviam noi, e regni assai 
beati,/ Quali 1 Cemin a noi mostran a dito,/ Gittianci dunque in mar, ch’in aria 
alzati/ Dietro andaremo a quelli, e poi felici/ Serrem tra gl’altri nostri cari amici” 
(38). Il punto é anche l’eroismo fanatico, pil ancora che patetico, opposto a ogni 
Realpolitik storico-culturale dei conquistatori o piano provvidenziale, dagli 
sconfitti indigeni, debilitati da lavori pesanti e vittime di superstizioni.2* La 
melodrammatica reazione (“Pianse per gl’occhi fuor, fuoco divenne,/ Grid, latrd, 
come un fiero Molosso”) davanti allo “orribil caso” del “buon Re” Ferdinando é 
ideologicamente assai significativa: la punizione esemplare dei suoi ministri 
responsabili delle angherie ai danni delle popolazioni indigene, l’esenzione dal 
lavoro coatto degli indiani, e l’emanazione di una serie di decreti reali diretti ad 
instaurare un ordine nuovo, punendo gli offensori del diritto alla proprieta, 
ladroni, ma anche i nuovi soggetti che indulgono nel consumare carne umana e 
nella sodomia. E cid in conformita al “dovere” contratto dagli Spagnoli, con 
specifiche bolle papali, di preoccuparsi della salvezza spirituale degl’indigeni: 
solo sottomettendo gli amerindi alla tutela dei “cristiani” era possibile evitare che 


24 Si veda il lungo lamento della stessa fata Erctontea sulla sconfitta della religione indigena nel c. 
XI, 74-86. 


166 Albert N. Mancini 


essi ritornassero ai vizi ed agli errori in cui erano vissuti anteriormente: “Tal 
leggi promulgate, e gran letitia/ Resa a la gente, santi sacerdoti/ Dispose a quei, 
accid con lor monditia/ Del viver lor e far ogn’hora noti/ Misterii de la fede, ogni 
stoltitia/ Lasciassero meschin, onde devoti/ In breve il figlio de l’eterno padre/ 
Adoraro, e la sua celeste madre” (58-59). Nell’ultima sezione del canto (61-135) i 
Maghi di Montezuma, giunti ad un vulcano, riescono ad esorcizzare, tramite 
preghiere e riti cruenti, Plutone, con la sua corte infernale tutta presente nel 
sapere libresco della tradizione classica, e a reclutarlo per un ultimo tentativo di 
resistenza contro gl’invasori spagnoli al Temistitan, nel cui maggior tempio 
ogni giorno continuano ad essere sacrificati cento uomini.* 

L’esame cursorio del canto qui condotto offre gia il destro ad un elementare 
rimarco conclusivo, In generale, si pud dire che, visto che il poema é pensato dal 
Giorgini come guida didattico-ideologica per gli occidentali, gli indiani sono 
qualificati consistentemente “empi”. Il non essere cristiani € per lui una 
discriminante tra “buoni” e “cattivi” e le divinita indigene e i capi religiosi (Fate, 
Maghi, ecc.) sono teologicamente identificati con le forze del male e altrettanto 
consistentemente demonizzati. I] nuovo mondo diventa cosi il terreno dello 
scontro aperto fra categorie totalizzanti quali il Cielo e 1’Inferno, il Bene e il 
Male, fra cristianita e alterita. Da questo atteggiamento di chiusura dogmatica, la 
occidentalizzazione del mondo nella figura della cristianita, consegue che la 
conversione é dal Giorgini presentata sempre come un rovesciamento radicale di 
valori morali e sociali imposto nell’interesse spirituale dei nativi stessi. II rifiuto 
totale dell’alterita da parte degl’invasori comporta il rinnego totale del loro 
passato e della loro identita culturale da parte dei selvaggi infedeli ed idolatri.” 


4, Quanto al dramma storico della scoperta/conquista, la rappresentazione del 
Giorgini é condotta su due registri che s’intersecano e si sovrappongono: uno é, 
come si é visto, l’attualita ideologica, cioé la politica imperiale della monarchia 
spagnola; |’altro, l’incontro/scontro degli occidentali con gli amerindi, con 
l’“altro” da sé. Alle edificanti conversioni collettive di cui si é detto si affiancano 
le imprese militari, provocate da manifestazioni di ostilita e di violenza delle 
popolazioni indigene. A parte il velleitario progetto di diffusione del 
cristianesimo della regina Isabella, é chiara la volonta espansionistica di dominio 
politico degli scopritori spagnoli. La guerra che re Ferdinando conduce con i suoi 


25 Ricordo che il pid importante manoscritto sulla vita quotidiana, le credenze religiose, le pratiche 
mediche e scientifiche degli Aztechi fu redatto da Fra Bernardino Sahagun, giunto in Messico 
come missionario nel 1525. Questo codice redatto in lingua spagnola e azteca é ora conservato a 
Firenze presso la biblioteca Medicea-Laurenziana. Sulla religione dei popoli messicani rimando 
anche a Soustelle 72-87. 

Per un atteggiamento diverso rinvio in questo volume alle osservazioni della Zito al riguardo dei 
missionari gesuiti per i quali la religiosita naturale degli indiani costituisce un sostrato favorevole 
alla penetrazione del culto cristiano nel nuovo mondo. Per la prima fase della conquista si veda 
anche quello che il Lunardi (395) scrive sull’atteggiamento di Pietro Martire. 


Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 167 


generali (Oviedo, Salazar, Cortés, ma specialmente Colombo) nel nuovo mondo 
& combattuta come guerra di conquista, prevede l’occupazione militare di quelle 
terre: si fondano nuove citta, si contraggono alleanze, si conducono esplorazioni 
in terre prima sconosciute, si rifanno le carte del mondo, si sfrutta al massimo il 
lavoro delle popolazioni locali, per ottenere quante pili ricchezze possibili. 

Colombo, vincitore dei Caribi, fa il bilancio delle perdite e degli acquisti di 
uomini e materiali, con l’occhio esperto di un condottiere, come il passo 
seguente tratto dal canto XVII illustra: “Rese le gratie a quel, ch’il tutto puote,/ 
E a la celeste madre, e Vergin santa/ Con supplichevol preci, e assai devote,/ 
Volta il pensier Colombo, a saper quanta/ Fusse, come la fama, e ’! grido 
suona,/ Che nel correr a se mai si perdona./ Maggior de la sua fama esser 
ritrova,/ Perché cinquanta mila eran distesi/ Morti per terra, e una larga piova/ 
Havean fatta del sangue, i ricchi arnesi/ Tolti da lor una montagna nuova/ 
Havean gia fatta, e tutta era d’accesi/ D’ori fulgenti, perch’ogn’huomo almeno/ 
Havea tre piastre al tergo, al capo, e al seno./. . ./ La decima pel Re fu tolta, e il 
resto/ Diviso a quei suoi valorosi, e bravi/ Soldati, e a ciascun conforme al testo/ 
Lor diede, e i minor pesi men gravi/ D’una sola piastra giungevan al sesto/ 
Segno de libre e a quei che meno aggravi/ Dieder a suoi nimici almeno fur date/ 
Sei belle piastre, ben fate, e formate.” L’apposito commento autoriale invoca 
l’autorita della storia classica: quella di Colombo fu “pit bella preda assai pit 
ricca, e degna” di quella di Annibale a Canne o sulla Trebbia; e “maggior di 
quella, ch’Alessandro invitto/ A Dario tolse” (1-5). Che l’impresa di re 
Ferdinando configuri una guerra di tipo coloniale non c’é dubbio; basta verificare 
sulle prime ottave della lunga presentazione, quasi un centinaio di versi, del 
comandante in capo dell’armata cristiana nella spedizione punitiva contro i 
Caribi. Con “una ordinanza mirabile, e ingegnosi strattagemmi”, Colombo, 
secondo quanto si legge nell’“argomento” preposto al canto XVI, espone il piano 
di battaglia al capo di stato maggiore spagnolo: “Nel primo luoco innanzi a tutti 
pone/ GI’ottocento cavalli, ch’ivi in campo/ Havea, e doi Capitani a quei 
propone, Et il forte Gonzal prim’é d’Occampo,/ E Giovan de la Cossa a quel 
suppone,/ Tra questi collocd, ch’oltre pel campo/ Dieci bombarde ascosamente 
tratte/ Havesser con le ruote humile, e piatte./ I destrier, che tiravan tal cannoni/ 
Portavano sul dorso i cavalieri./ Ma talmente disposti, ch’i pedoni,/ Ch’andavano 
tra lor, e de quei fieri/ Mostri di prender cura havean ragioni,/ Tosto i legami 
havrian a quei guerrieri/ Tronchi, e al corso, e al pugnar disposti/ Sarebbon stati 
a suoi nimici opposti./ Ma pria doveano ritirarsi alquanto,/ Sin che I’artellarie 
facean 1l’effetto/ Contro nimici di aspra morte, e pianto” (59-61). Si noti la 
compiaciuta indulgenza sui particolari dell’ Almirante; v’é il gusto dei dettagli 
logistici di certi odierni consulenti militari. 

Vi ritroviamo in pit il gioco delle alleanze, l’astuzia o sapienza politica cosi 
come |’intendevano gli europei del Cinquecento.”” Non puo percid meravigliare 


27 Si veda I’intervista al Citati del De Cortanze. Rispondendo alla domanda perché i conquistatori 


168 Albert N. Mancini 


che, come s’é accennato, il Giorgini affidi al “fido Colombo”, che é@ stimato 
molto e ha una posizione di strordinaria potenza, il ruolo di portavoce della 
Realpolitik storico-culturale europea. Chiamato da re Ferdinando a dare il suo 
parere sull’imminente attacco contro Montezuma, cautela, machiavellicamente, 
sulla necessita da parte degl’invasori, costretti ad operare sul suolo dell’altro in 
drammatiche condizioni d’inferiorita numerica per di pit (“ma perché gente non 
veggio a bastanza”), di proteggersi da eventuali defezioni degl’indigeni 
sottomessi: “. . . adunque io chieggio,/ Che da ciascun di quei, ch’ad hora tiene/ 
In queste Insule e terre il regal seggio,/ O figli, o frati, o suore, o altre dilette/ 
Persone diano a nostre fid’elette./ Ch’in tal maniera a lor pace si faccia,/ E per 
farla pit corta, quei ch’hor sonno/ Venuti ambasciador, non ti dispiaccia,/ Per 
ostaggi tener, né in questo assonno;/ Perché a piu grati lor tal gente allaccia/ 
Simil offitio, e cid mostrar ti ponno/ Questi che frati a lor, over son figli,/ O 
tal, ch’ogn’hor da lor prendon consigli” (XVII, 97-99). 

Il Giorgini paga il suo tributo all’immaginario Jetterario delle imprese 
d’armi, dipingendo gli Spagnuoli e gl’indiani alla stessa guisa in cui nei poemi 
romanzeschi sono dipinti gli eroi cristiani e gl’infedeli, e cioé enfatizzando la 
diversité e non quello che i combattenti hanno in comune, o esagerando, con 
esiti spesso grotteschi, gli anacronismi storici e la superiorita della macchina 
militare spagnola. Attraverso vicende di tipo guerresco, re Ferdinando mette a 
punto un piano tattico di successo garantito grazie all’organizzazione militare di 
tipo europeo e anche all’uso esperto delle armi da fuoco. Colombo, giunto 
all’altezza delle coste della Florida alla ricerca delle navi disperse dalla tempesta, 
avvista una massa d’indigeni ostili, di “gente stolta”, a cui si sente in dovere di 
offrire un saggio della potenza militare spagnola: “Ma ben li saluto di lungi 
alquanto/ Con le tremende bocche, e horrende voci,/ Che sogliono gettar i 
bronzi, e ’1 pianto/ Apportar seco, e i dardi feroci/ Di cruda morte, e 1 pil mesto 
canto;/ Onde sentendo i tuon cotanto atroci,/ E vedendo de suoi tanti gia morti,/ 
Lasciaro ogni suo ardir, tutt’i conforti./ Crebbe il dolor, e crebbe il gran 
spavento,/ Mirar che non potean alcune offese/ Dar a color, e che ferir il vento/ 
Con le sue frezze havean tolte l’imprese,/ E per darli il Latin pit’ gran tormento,/ 
Fa che di nuovo le bombarde accese/ Siano, e di nuovo fa crudel macello,/ Con 
nuovo, e inusitato a lor flagello” (IX, 98-99). 

Per il Giorgini l’incapacita da parte degli amerindi di gestire militarmente la 
loro resistenza contro gl’invasori dipende, oltre che dalla disponibilita da parte 
degli Spagnoli delle micidiali armi da fuoco, bombarde ma anche “moschettoni”, 
montati su tripodi come mitragliatrici,?* dalla loro cultura, soprattutto dalla loro 


spagnoli prevalsero sugli Aztechi, tanto avanzati in cultura e strutture socio-politiche: “Per i 
messicani la guerra era un fatto religioso: la intraprendevano per catturare il maggior numero di 
prigionieri, che venivano sacrificati a Dio. . . . Il malvagio genio europeo della politica ha battuto 
un altro genio che non conosceva affatta la politica” (7). 

8 Per una dettagliata descrizione dell’impiego di una batteria di artiglieria leggera, cfr. XIV, 81- 


Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 169 


religione naturale, dalle loro superstizioni. Nel canto XVI si legge questa pagina 
sui “destrieri” della cavalleria spagnola ingenuamente scambiati dai “selvaggi” 
per fulmini che fanno seguito al rombo delle salve di cannone: “Tosto ch’inteso 
fu quello tremendo/ Tuon di bombarde, e altre, che spavento/ Il buon Colombo a 
quei donar volendo,/ Accender, comando, grave sgomento/ S’ingenero nel cuor, 
aspro, e horrendo/ Di quei, che degni son d’ogni tormento;/ Hanno ritorno i tuon 
(dicean tra loro)/ Tosto i fulmin vedrem nel nostro foro./ Eccoli (oimé diceano) 
tosto, che visti/ Furno i destrier ch’il Ciel di nuovo manda,/ Per far dolenti noi 
ogn’hor piii tristi, Vidder, che verso lor l’altiera banda/ Si mosser de 1 destrier, 
fecer pensiero,/ Esser i fulmini lor del Cielo altero/. . ./ Imaginaro quei sciocchi, 
e ignoranti,/ Ch’ad ogn’uno di quelli horrendi bronzi,/ Nuovi destrieri, quasi 
fulmin erranti,/ Cadessero dal Ciel, tant’eran gonzi” (103-105). Altrove, per dare 
un altro esempio, i sacerdoti indiani attribuiscono all’ira del Sole la strage nel 
campo indiano causata dall’incursione notturna di Diego de Salazar e propongono 
ai capi militari che l’esercito indigeno dormi di giorno e si muova e combatta di 
notte (XIV, 38-58). 

Le due civilta e le due culture vengono messe a confronto nei punti 
nevralgici dell’azione militare del poema: i canti XIII-XIV (le campagne contro i 
cacicchi ribelli di Hispaniola), X VI (la campagna contro i Caribi, e XXII-XXIV 
(la campagna contro gli Atzechi e Montezuma), in cui si raccoglie la pill ampia 
campionatura di testimonianze sui guerrieri indigeni e sulla scontata superiorita 
dei conquistatori spagnoli (le prodezze dei singoli capitani spagnoli, specialmente 
Diego de Salazar; le apocalittiche stragi della “‘plebe disarmata e vile”, ecc.), una 
sorta di “nucleo nero” che rappresenta forse la pit: pesante eredita della tradizione 
epica.?? Del resto, nell’epica a soggetto moderno la guerra nel suo aspetto 
agonistico ma anzitutto come contesa di carattere culturale fa da struttura 
portante. Gia i primi critici del sottogenere oceanico avevano severamente 
criticato la pretenziosa ed inverosimile celebrazione epica delle guerre di 
conquista contro le popolazioni americane, inermi e disarmate secondo le pit 
attendibili fonti storiche.*° 

In qualche modo alla base di questo confronto fra armate e armati, per ovvie 
ragioni ancora pill carico d’implicazioni ideologiche, sono le osservazioni sul 
contesto antropologico, le descrizioni e i giudizi sulle popolazioni e i loro usi e 
costumi che introducono agli eventi, esplorazione e conquista. Non ci soprende, 
dopo quanto si é andato dicendo, che |’inevitabile parallelo tra le due civilta si 
svolge a netto svantaggio degl’indigeni. I] Giorgini € un convinto sostenitore 
dell’inferiorita e del nuovo continente e dei suoi abitanti, pit: deboli e piccoli 
degli europei, meno elevati spiritualmente, incapaci di modificare l’ambiente che 


82. 

29 Per uno studio esemplare del campo e dei campioni infedeli nella Gerusalemme liberata 
rimando al recente saggio del Godard. 

30 Per le critiche del Busenello e del Tassoni rinvio a D’ Agostino 17-18, 20. 


170 Albert N. Mancini 


li circonda. Questa costante ideologica che contraddistingue il poema spiega la 
scelta della materia e l’egemonia narratologica della favola eroica nel Mondo 
nuovo giorginiano: la seconda fase dell’incontro con il nuovo continente, il 
secondo viaggio di Colombo e il cambiamento di giudizio nei riguardi 
degl’indiani, divenuti da umili e amichevoli feroci e perfidi per aver attaccato gli 
Spagnoli, documentabile nelle fonti da cui l’autore attinge. Si ricordi che 
Colombo non trovo superstiti nella colonia di Navidad al suo ritorno nell’isola 
di Hispaniola. I cinquanta uomini, lasciati indietro, erano periti tutti. Gli 
indigeni erano diventati ostili perché provocati dalla guarnigione spagnola che 
durante l’assenza dell’ Ammiraglio aveva molestato donne, fatto razzie di cibo e 
commesso altri abusi. 

Di conseguenza, si deve sottolineare che i riferimenti ad una visione idillica 
del nuovo mondo e delle nuove genti, che hanno dato origine al mito del buon 
selvaggio e al riemergere del tema letterario dell’ eta dell’oro, sono relativamente 
scarsi € poco insistiti nel poema del Giorgini. Uno dei pit importanti effetti 
della scoperta sull’immaginario europeo fu la trasposizione del mito dell’ eta 
dell’oro in un contesto contemporaneo e accessibile. Dichiarazioni idilliche con 
le solite indicazioni di nudita, di assenza di aggressivita degl’indigeni, che vivono 
in una specie di comunismo primitivo, dove non esiste proprieta privata né alcun 
tipo di divieto, diffuse nella lettera di Colombo a Santangel del 1493, nelle opere 
di Pietro Martire d’ Anghiera e di Amerigo Vespucci, si leggono nel canto III (14- 
26), riferite ad un pil 0 meno immaginario Pert. Le recepisce lo stesso 
Colombo che non puo trattenersi dal prorompere in una celebrazione della nuova 
eta dell’oro di cui trascrivo |’attacco: “Gente felice, disse l’inventore/ Del Nuovo 
Mondo, a cui non porge affanno/ Invidia, o gelosia, n’improbo amore,/ 
n’ambition, né l’avaritia danno/ Alcun li porge, o serviti dolore,/ Felice terra 
sei, di cui tant’hanno/ Vati e poeti intronizati in nube,/ Illustrando il tuo nome 
in varie tube” (III, 27-33). Ma altrove nel poema, per esempio a conclusione 
della guerra contro i Caribi, i feroci cannibali che bisogna eliminare o rendere 
schiavi, re Ferdinando celebra una nuova eta dell’oro, instaurata dai conquistatori 
nel nuovo continente. Un breve passo, estremo e per tale ragione buon testimone 
di questo cambiamento, puod qui bastare: “Per voi vergogna, e honor, e fede, e 
pace,/ Virth non conosciuta a questo Mondo, E vera gloria ogn’hor nota si face,/ 
Senza timor alcun ogn’huom giocondo/ Lieto godra, né temera il vorace/ Caribo, 
O altro pit fier, che vadi in tondo,/ Sicur la terra homai, sicur il mare,/ Gia 
l’aurea eta per questo Mondo appare” (XVII, 88). 

In breve, l’istanza primitivista ¢ essenzialmente assente nel Mondo nuovo e 
non contesta praticamente la nozione della superiorita dei conquistatori europei e 
cristiani. Non solo. Ma la concezione del tempo del Giorgini & decisamente 
quella del tempo lineare, del tempo dominato dal superamento, dal progresso 
invece che dalla ripetizione e cioé dalla ciclicita. Il nostro autore é fermamente 
arroccato sulle posizioni controriformistiche ortodosse di condanna dello stato 
naturale e di celebrazione delle societa urbane, ordinate e stabili, dominanti in 





Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 171 


Italia dalla meta del Cinquecento alla meta del Settecento.*! 

Il Giorgini paga il suo tributo alle geografie e antropologie immaginarie: 
nel suo poema ritroviamo, se non proprio i cenocefali e gli uomini-cane, i 
ciclopi e altri mostri presenti nel sapere libresco della tradizione classica. 
Bisogna precisare, pero, che questo tipo d’immaginario trova modo di esprimersi 
nella presentazione delle forze dell’Inferno piuttosto che in quella degli abitanti 
del nuovo mondo. Deg]l’indiani di Hispanola, l’autore registra gia all’inizio del 
poema la foggia delle abitazioni, l’uso dei materiali, le abitudini alimentari, la 
cultura, la religione, i tabu vietati, le cognizioni scientifiche, |’ organizzazione 
politica (III, 55-92). Si ricorda, anche che, mentre nelle relazioni degli esploratori 
e missionari la conoscenza degli uomini e delle societa da evangelizzare o rendere 
“civili” € considerata necessaria ed essenziale, il poeta epico registra queste 
esoteriche curiosita con programmatica malizia. Si legga la reazione di re 
Ferdinando al lungo racconto dell’interprete dei Taoni di Hispaniola: “Qui 
tacque e mosse un gran piacere e riso/ Al Re, in sentir cosi nobil scientia/ per 
non dirli pazzia riman conquiso/ Pensando, come in noi tanta prudentia/ Regni, e 
sagacita e perfetto aviso,/ Tanta dottrina regni e sapientia,/ Che Dei non siamo 
pur, ma humana gente,/ E come lor habbiam ragion o mente./ Del lume natural 
solo parlando,/ Ch’hanno avuto tra noi huomin si saggi,/ Socrate con Platone, e 
quel ch’andando/ GI’ altri insegnava, qua con veri raggi/ Nature e cose sue sta 
rimirando,/ Onde di sopra al Ciel par ch’avantaggi,/ E cose ha dette, cosi vere e 
degne,/ Che par ch’in lui divinita non sdegne” (III, 91-92). E che la primitiva 
civilta precolombiana nel nuovo continente sia destinata a soccombere lo 
conferma anche Il’interprete che fa il ritratto degli abitanti. La loro cultura, 
apprendiamo, @ tramandata oralmente in composizioni poetiche in versi, 
denominate Areiti, che vengono cantate in cerimonie civili e religiose (III, 68- 
69). Tra i versi che tramandano il sapere collettivo: “Un’Areito habbiam, ch’al 
ver s’affronta,/ Per quanto giudicar si puote ad’hora,/ Che poco havran tra noi 
Cemi dimora./ L’Areito @ questo, e @ antico tra noi,/ Ch’Iddio permettera, 
ch’huomin vestiti/ Verran armati insin da i liti Eoi/ Di spade, quai serran cotanto 
arditi,/ Che fenderan da capo a piedi i cuoi/ Human, e i Cemin serran banditi,/ 
Portando nuove Cerimonie, e leggi,/ Sottoponendo noi a suoi gran Seggi” (III, 
78-79) 33 


31 Si vedano a proposito le osservazioni di Romeo 37-38, a cui si dovranno aggiungere quelle che 
si leggono nell’aggiomata sintesi prowvista da Elliot, ora disponibile in traduzione italiana (Milano: 
Il Saggiatore, 1985). 

Da notare per inciso che re Ferdinando ha bisogno d’interpreti per comunicare con gli 
amerindi, mentre Colombo, sul modello dell’Orlando ariostesco, conosce la lingua indigena parlata 
a Cuba (IX, 11). 

Per una profezia molto simile si veda anche XV, 83-85. Il Soustelle (49) segnala un antico mito 
degli Aztechi secondo cui nell’anno uno-canna il Dio Quetzalcoalt sarebbe venuto dall’oriente per 
stabilire un nuovo ordine di cose. Nell’anno 1519, equivalente all’anno-canna, Hernan Cortés 
sbarcava nel Messico. 


172 Albert N. Mancini 


Quanto al tema della sessualita degli indigeni, presentati (specialmente le 
donne) come inclinati per natura e costume alla lubricita nelle relazioni degli 
esploratori europei, un passo solo, ma molto significativo credo, pud servire da 
campione in queste riflessioni preliminari sull’opera. Nell’episodio della 
pestilenza che, come si & accennato, segna il punto piu basso delle fortune dei 
conquistatori nelle nuove terre, gli indiani di Hispaniola, gia fiacciati da una 
miriade di tare fisiologiche e proni per natura e costume ad indulgere nel sesso, 
sono decimati dalla sifilide: ““Da l’altro mal, che noi chiamiam Francese,/ E 
Bughe gl’Indian soglion chiamare,/ Una gran parte havea dentro le tese/ Reti 
condotta, qual suol dilatare/ Per varie vie, come s’in dosso prese/ Havrai vesti di 
quel, che doglie amare/ Patisce, o presto lui tu dormirai,/ O nel gotto di quel tu 
beverai./ Se del fiato, o sudor del patiente,/ Partecipe serrai, o conoscenza/ Di 
donna havrai, che di tal mal si sente/ haver, che donar suol tanta doglienza” (XII, 
13-14). E noto che nel Cinquecento in Europa la sifilide viene considerata 
generalmente come una malattia nuova che proviene da fuori, sintomaticamente 
attributa pit: frequentemente agli amerindi che erano completamente rimossi dalla 
societa cristiana.*4 Al contrario, la “Christiana gente”, pil. temperata nei suoi 
costumi sessuali e meglio edotta delle cause della mortale infezione, “da simil 
cose ogn’hor usava absenza”, cosi come si astiene dalla pratica dell’antropofagia 
diffusa fra i selvaggi “che fede data havean al fier Cemino”: “Da cruda fame 
stimulati, e punti,/ E dal desio, ch’ha ogn’huom di viver sempre,/ Veggendo i 
cibi suoi tutti consunti,/ voltaro incontro a se l’armate tempre./ Cercando infra di 
lor farsi defunti,/ Per nutrirsi de sue carni gia stempre,/ Onde né il padre al figlio, 
il figlio al padre/ Era sicur, né la sua figlia a madre./ Mentre ch’un huomo 
s’uccidea, pit forte/ Di cui fuggendo la funebre teda,/ Quali di fuggir havean duro 
pensiero,/ Vedean rivolto il suo ascosto sentiero” (XII, 9-10). 

Anche questa scelta del tema del cannibalismo é@ inevitabile perché 
rappresenta il segno estremo della diversita amerinda nella letteratura sulle 
esplorazioni e nelle illustrazioni del Cinquecento. Gli orrori del “rito immondo” 
da cui sono affetti, secondo il Giorgini, tutti gli amerindi sollecitano piu diffusi 
commenti nel caso dei Caribi, specialmente a proposito deila campagna contro 
questi ultimi.*> I Caraibi allestiscono regolari campi di sterminio per le loro 
vittime: “Han certe case lunghe entro quel piano/ Di legni fatte, e frasche e 
herbe, e giunchi/ Havitacolo a quei, che di lontano,/ Van depredando co i suoi 
legni adunchi/.” Tocca a Colombo, il condottiero dei liberatori spagnoli, il 
compito ingrato di fare la macabra scoperta: “Posto il suo piede dentro a quelle 
case/ Un grave horror sente, che punge il cuore, Et arricciarsi il crin, poiché 


34 Cfr. sul soggetto della sifilide il volume a c. di Muir e Ruggiero. 

Il tema viene introdotto nel poema nel canto II, 48-52. Pietro Martire usa il termine “cannibali” 
parlando degl’indiani ostili incontrati nell’isola di Santa Cruz vicino alle isole Vergini, 
originariamente un nome di una trib, i Canibs o Caribs, dal Martire gia qualificati come 
mangiatori di uomini. 





Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 173 


rimase/ La voce, che non puote uscir di fuore,/ De membri human vedendo esser 
le vase/ Piene, che poste al grave incendio, e ardore/ Del fuoco, esser dovean 
cotte vivande,/ Per quelle genti si crude, e nefande./ D’un giovinetto vidde il capo 
appeso,/ Ch’ancor sangue gottava e una fossa/ D’ossi ripien. . . .” E la sua 
invettiva, repleta di echi danteschi, é altrettanto veemente quanto prevedibile: “O 
Ciel come tua possa/ Tanto tardasti a far, ch’estinto, o offeso/ Fusse si gran 
misfatto, o perché scossa/ Non sei tu terra e aprendoti insieme/ Non inghiottisti 
si nefando seme?” (XVII, 15-16).© 

Pit: benevolo, in fondo, il quadro che degli amerindi viene fuori dal 
trattamento del terzo stereotipo obbligato dell’alterita, quello della nudita. Il 
temperamento figurativo, per la verita non troppo vivace, del Giorgini é 
all’origine di una serie di escogitazioni forse in sé indifferenti e neutrali anche se 
ripetute. Possiamo notare comunque due comportamenti significativi. In primo 
luogo, vediamo che egli pronuncia un giudizio negativo sulla “nudita” 
degl’indigeni giacché essa implica una condizione di inferiorita culturale. 
Secondo, la nudita é vista come costume primitivo, imposta dal clima e dalla 
rozzezza della vita, ma non una condizione di per sé immorale. I] seguente 
commento si legge nella presentazione dei Taoni di Hispaniola, visti in una luce 
benevola di “barbari” in perfetta salute, ingenuamente orgogliosi delle loro 
nudita: “Ha quasi giorni chiar, e qual’a oscure/ Notti, nuda vedrai tutta la gente,/ 
Ha molte ville, e son senza mure,/ Le case di legname, e allegramente/ Si vive 
in otio, e le fatiche dure/ Fuggon assai, e una piazza patente/ Ch’é destinata del 
Batei al gioco/ Hanno dentro ciascun principale loco/. . . Nude van le zitelle, e le 
pudende/ Copron le maritate . . .” (III, 61-63). 

Per un confronto pit: spettacolare, che sembra calcato da una delle tante 
illustrazioni dell’epoca e che non poteva non inorgoglire il privilegiato lettore 
europeo di epica, proporrei la scena seguente dell’incontro ufficiale fra 
l’emissario reale Gonzal de Oviedo e i cacicchi di Hispanola: “Tosto che nacque 
il Sol, prese il camino/ Verso la terra il fido ambasciadore,/ Tutti coperti di 
velluto fino/ Haveva i suoi valletti, e ogni Signore,/ Che seco haveva, e ogni 
cittadino/ Cavalcavali intorno in grand’honore,/ Sopra a vago destrier egli 
n’andava,/ E in signoril sembiante si mostrava./ Gl’usciva incontro popul 
tutt’unito/ Havendo di stupor la mente piena,/ Mirando I’arme, e il vago vestito,/ 
Ch’havea la gente al petto, e a la schiena,/ E pit ’huomo veder, che convertito/ 
In gran destrier li par, e che s’affrena,/ Se ben da tal error furono tolti,/ Mirando 
quei da lor esser disciolti/. . ./ Giunto a la piazza, ivi dismonta, e vede/ Tutti i 
Caciqui insiem, e li saluta/ Ad uno ad un, bacia la man, e siede/ Sopra ad un’alto 
luoco, ove veduta/ Esser potea la gente .. .” (IV, 9-13). 

Bisogna dire che le indicazioni di nudita in fondo simboleggiano 1’assenza 
della civilta, e quindi la facilita dell’omologazione di parte almeno degli amerindi 


36 Cfr. ancora sul soggetto almeno XVI, 9-11 e 46-48, che contiene altri particolari sulle atrocita 
dei “cani” Caraibi. 


174 Albert N. Mancini 


alle norme di comportamento europee. Spigolando nel Mondo nuovo 
giorginiano, non é difficile segnalare esempi interessanti di questo 
atteggiamento. Salazar nella campagna contro i Caribi cerca di guadagnare 
l’alleanza di un potente capo locale con ricchi doni: un padiglione di damasco per 
il re; “leggiadra veste/ Di raso, ch’in Fiorenza altro si buono forse non é, ch’é di 
color celeste”, per la madre; “un vestito di Dante, vago e bello,/ E un ben 
trapunto, e aurato, e bel cappello", per il fratello; per gli altri membri della corte 
a seconda del grado: “‘a chi dond camiscie, a chi giupponi,/ A chi calzette, a chi 
guanti da mano,/ A chi casacche, a chi vaghi calzoni” (XV, 87-89). II vestire, 
meglio ancora il vestire alla spagnola, come l’imporre nuovi nomi a luoghi e 
persone o la propria lingua, é anch’esso un’efficace forma di appropriazione, 
dell’assimilazione come proiezione dei propri valori sugli altri. Per ritornare 
brevemente, a modo di conclusione, all’episodio della resa e della conversione 
delle amazzoni, di cui si é discusso pili sopra, si deve aggiungere che il culmine 
del processo di occidentalizzazione consiste proprio nella loro adozione di abiti 
femminili: “Erano belle assai vaghe, e gentili/ Tal donne, e volontier erano 
prese/ Da nostri per moglier, se ben humili/ Vestiti havean e le chiome distese/ 
E inculte, e quando a lor poser civili/ Habiti intorno, e le chiome comprese/ 
Furno a l’usanza nostra, assai pili belle/ Eran, sembrando le celesti stelle” (XVII, 
68).37 


5. Il testo che ho preso in esame nei due aspetti dell’ideologia sottostante e delle 
strutture portanti pud essere considerato dunque una opzione di valore culturale, 
una manifestazione congrua di una polemica di civilta nel lungo e complesso 
processo dell’incontro/scontro del Vecchio e Nuovo Mondo che comincia a 
configurarsi nel Cinquecento. Non é qui la sede per analizzare ancora altri aspetti, 
il problema delle fonti e l’ambito stilistico (ad esempio comparare una finzione 
romanzesca 0 epica a una relazione di viaggio o un rapporto al re), ma credo che 
questo studio possa rappresentare un utile punto di partenza per ricostruire una 
stagione culturale ancora poco frequentata dalla ricerca storiografica e per 
restituire una maggiore chiarezza ai rapporti fra epica e tematica colombiana e fra 
epica e il problema dell’“altro”. La storiografia sulla scoperta/conquista ha avuto 
infatti come caratteristica costante quella di essere un termometro sensibile dei 
variabili schemi mentali di osservazione dell’extra-ordinario, della “coscienza” 
dell’occidente. Ma la scoperta ha prodotto anche una vasta letteratura, che conta 
alcune opere di alta qualita, come quelle del Cortés e del Vespucci. Una rinnovata 
riflessione su alcuni dei testi meno frequentati dalla critica nasce per me 
dall’esigenza di aggredire queste pagine, di lettura difficile e poco godibile, lo 


37 Nello stesso passo si legga il ritratto della regina delle Amazzoni di cui s’innammorera il 
campione cristiano Diego de Salazar (XVII, 69). Pit avanti (XVII, 87), re Ferdinando elenchera 
fra i meriti dei conquistatori l’aver lasciato le “sfacciate donne . . . in humil gonne.” Per un altro 
paragone fra donne europee e indigene si veda XIII, 30. 





Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini 175 


ammetto, alla luce di una nuova metodologia di smontaggio sistematico e 
integrale che, sostituendosi a quella tradizionale documentaria, estetizzante, 
esterna, permetta di recuperare interamente il loro spessore ideologico e letterario. 

L’opera del Giorgini poco diffusa al tempo suo e ignorata dagli studiosi si 
offre nondimeno ad un ampio ventaglio di occasioni critiche interne ed esterne ad 
essa: ha il vantaggio di condensare in un unico, archetipico esempio la 
molteplicita delle caratteristische, delle idee e degli atteggiamenti di tanta 
letteratura sull’incontro. Giorgini guarda alla scoperta dal dentro, per cosi dire: 
dal di dentro del sistema politico spagnolo e dal di dentro della poetica del poema 
eroico tardocinquecentesco. A entrambi i livelli la finalita non é mai puramente 
contemplativa, ma sempre utilitaristica: la scoperta/conquista é vista dall’autore 
come una necessita interna all’Europa cattolica per definirsi e perpetuarsi, un 
momento di autocelebrazione e di autodefinizione. II risultato é che il Mondo 
nuovo del Giorgini si presenta come un’opera con maggiore coerenza ideologica 
€ Si propone come un lavoro direttamente e problematicamente d’accordo con il 
suo mondo e il suo tempo. 

L’epoca post-tridentina é un’epoca d’incertezze ideologiche e politiche, 
quindi di fratture. La riforma cattolica intende tutelare, nell’Europa meridionale 
almeno, gl’interessi dell’ordine politico e religioso costituito. Ogni opera 
letteraria risultera percid sottoposta ad una molteplicita di sollecitazioni che si 
esercitano sia sulla scrittura che sui contenuti. Il poema eroico viene concepito e 
proposto come il genere nobile della letteratura del potere, che meglio si presta 
alla rappresentazione encomiastica dei sovrani assolutistici, alla difesa delle tesi 
trionfalistiche della Chiesa e all’allargamento dell’area fruitiva della pietas 
controriformistica. L’epopea colombiana fra Cinque e Seicento, che il Mondo 
nuovo giorginiano inaugura, si deve leggere in quell’atmosfera di generale 
conformismo filospagnuolo e di eurocentrismo, politico e religioso, integrale 
che tende, sia pure con tonalita diverse, a giustificare e quindi celebrare le 
iniziative dei conquistatori. Si capisce anche come il riesame in corso della 
“scoperta” dell’ America imposto dalla ricorrenza del mezzo millennio, ha dato 
esiti molto lontani dalla retorica degli esploratori non solo nel nostro paese ma 
anche nella “vecchia” Europa. Da questo clima di contestazione eversiva, 0 
almeno di riflessione, é uscita intaccata non soltanto la figura di Colombo per 
quel misto inestricabile di avidita di ricchezze e di misticismo, di spirito di 
avventura e di volonta di sfruttamento, di competenza nautica e di calcolo 
politico che la contraddistingue, ma anche, e forse ancor piu, il sistema stesso 
della conquista spagnola, percepito nel complesso come un metodo di 
sfruttamento ottuso, crudele, impietoso, e inefficiente. 

Tuttavia, la nuova situazione internazionale, le migrazioni di massa dal Sud 
al Nord, il problema delle convivenze tra diverse culture, fanno si che le 
tematiche dell’incontro/scontro tra due civilta, indigena e europea, rimangano 
molto attuali ai nostri giorni. II discorso che il Giorgini conduce nel Mondo 
nuovo intorno a cid che é non-europeo é decisamente ed intenzionalmente 


176 Albert N. Mancini 


eurocentrico. In questo suo quadro d’impegnato militantismo si collocano sia i 
giudizi sugl’indigeni americani e sullo scontro tra “valori” e “civilta” di per sé 
non omologabili a parametri assoluti, sia quelli, modernamente altrettanto 
controversi, sulla conquista spagnola che si compongono in un atteggiamento 
politico tutto concreto. Continuare a misurare l’occasione di questa linea di 
pensiero “militante” del conflitto Europa-Nuovo Mondo, anche nell’epica 
cosiddetta colombiana, rimane, mi pare, un obbligo impreteribile 
dell’interrogazione storica contemporanea sulla genesi dell’eurocentrismo come 
modello universale di civilta. Fin dal primo sbarco di Colombo, |’ America ha 
rappresentato per gli europei, anche per quelli trasferiti oltreoceano dunque, un 
problema spinoso, il problema dell’“altro da sé”. 


The Ohio State University 


Opere citate 


Aquilecchia Giovanni, Da Bruno a Marino. Postilla all’'Adone X, 45 “Studi 
secenteschi” 20 (1979): 89-95. 

Anghiera, Pietro Martire di, La scoperta del Nuovo Mondo negli scritti di Pietro 
Martire d’Anghiera, ac. di Emesto Lunardi et al., Roma, Istituto Poligrafico e 
Zecca dello Stato, 1988. 

Annibaldi Giovanni, J! Colombo e la citta di Tesi, esi, Tipografia Augusto Spinaci, 
1892. 

Augé M., Cannibalismo, in Enciclopedia Einaudi, Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 

Bellini Giuseppe (a c. di), L’America tra reale e meraviglioso. Atti del Convegno di 
Milano, Roma: Bulzoni, 1990. 

Belloni Antonio, Gli epigoni della “Gerusalemme liberata”, Padova, Angelo Draghi, 
1893. 

Bernard Ipparco (a c. di), Due ragionamenti intorno alla tessitura e verseggiatura del 
poema “Il Mondo Nuovo” e due sonetti in lode dell’ autore Giovanni Giorgini da 
Tesi (1553-1606), Sassari, Stab. Tip. Ditta G. Desi, 1914. 

Bertelli Sergio, // corpo del Re. Sacralita del potere nell' Europa medievale e moderna, 
Firenze, Ponte delle Grazie, 1990. 

Bogliolo Bruna G. e A. Lehmann, Amazzoni o cannibali, vergini e madri, sante e 
prostitute. Donne amerindie e alterita nelle relazioni di alcuni viaggiatori 
francesi (secoli XVII-XVIII), “Columbeis” 3 (1988), 215-264. 

Bianchini Giuseppe, Cristoforo Colombo nella poesia italiana. Parte II. Poesia lirica, 
Venezia, Tip. gia Cordella, 1892. 

Cardona Giorgio Raimondo, I viaggi e le scoperte, in Letteratura italiana, vol. 5, Le 
questioni, ac. di A. Asor Rosa, Torino, Einaudi, 1986, 687-716. 

Chiappelli Fredi (a c. di), First Images of America. The Impact of the New World on 
the Old, 2 voll. Berkeley, U of California P, 1976. 

, Il conoscitore del caos, Roma, Bulzoni, 1981. 











Ideologia e struttura nel Mondo nuovo di G. Giorgini Wi) 


Colombo Cristoforo, J viaggi dopo la “scoperta”, a c. di Gabriella Airaldi, Verona, 
Cassa di Risparmio, 1985. 

, Lettere ai reali di Spagna, a c. di Vittoria Martinello, Palermo, Sellerio, 
1991. 

Cro Stelio, Campanella e Colombo: la nuova scienza e l’unita del mondo, 
“Colombeis” 2 (1987), 295-306. 

, The Noble Savage: Allegory of Freedom, Waterloo, Wilfrid Laurier UP, 
1990. 

Cuneo Michele da, Lettere, in Raccolta colombiana, parte 3, vol. 2, ac. di G. Berchet, 
Roma, 1892. 

D’ Agostino Renata, Tassoni contro Stigliani. Le “bellezze” del “Mondo nuovo, 
Napoli, Loffredo, 1983. 

De Cesare Giovanni Battista (a c. di), J1 Nuovo Mondo tra storia e invenzione. Atti del 
Convengo di Napoli, Roma, Bulzoni, 1990. 

De Cortanze Gérard, Le vite degli altri, ‘La rivista dei libri”, 2.3 (marzo 1992). 

Elliott John H., The Old World and the New. 1492-1650, Cambridge, Cambridge UP, 
1970. 

Fernandez-Amesto Felipe, Columbus, Oxford, Oxford UP, 1991. 

Getto Giovanni, Nel mondo della “Gerusalemme” , Firenze, Vallecchi, 1968, 9-85. 

Giorgini Giovanni, /1 Mondo Nuovol DEL SIG. GIOVANNI/ GIORGINI DA IESI,/ 
All’Invittissimo Principe di Spagna, e Sue/ Serenissime Sorelle./ Con gli 
argomenti in ottava rima del Sig. Gio. Pietro Colini, e in prosa del Sig. 
Girolamo! Ghislieri./ IN IESI,/ Appresso Pietro Farri! MDXCVI. Con licenza de’ 
Superiori. 

Gliozzi Giuliano (a c. di), La scoperta dei selvaggi. Antropologia e colonialismo da 
Colombo a Diderot, Milano, Principato, 1971. 

Godard Alain, Du “Capitano” au “Cavalier Sovrano”. Godefroi de Bouillon dans la 
Jérusalem Conquise, in Récritures 3, Paris, CIRRI, 1987, 205-264. 

, Le camp paien et ses héros dans la “Jérusalem Délivrée”, in Quétes d’ une 
identité collective chez les Italiens de la Renaissance, Paris, CIRRI, 1990, 309- 
429. 

Granzotto Gianni, Cristoforo Colombo, Mondadori, Milano, 1984. 

Greenblatt Stephen J., Marvelous Possessions: The Wonder of the New World, 
Chicago, U of Chicago P; Oxford, Oxford UP, 1991. 

Kadir Djelal, Columbus and the Ends of the Earth. Europe’s Prophetic Rhetoric as 
Conquering Ideology, Berkeley, U of California P, 1992. 

Kantorowicz Ernst, / due corpi del Re, Torino, Einaudi, 1989. 

Latouche Serge, L’occidentalizzazione del mondo, Torino, Bollati Boringhieri, 1992. 

Livingston A., Gian Francesco Busenello e la polemica Stigliani-Marino, “Ateneo 
veneto” 3 (1910), vol. 2, fasc.1, 123-155. 

Mancini Albert N., Nuovo e Vecchio Mondo, “Esperienze letterarie” 17.1 (1992), 3- 
eye 

Moretti Alcibiade, Memorie degli illustri jesini, Iesi, Fratelli Polidori, 1870. 

Muir Edward e Guido Ruggiero (a c. di), Sex and Gender in Historical Perspective: 
Selections from “Quaderni storici”, trad. M. A. Gallucci, M. M. Gallucci e C. 
Gallucci, Baltimore, Johns Hopkins UP, 1990. 

Padrén Francisco Morales, Los Conquistadores de America, Madrid, Austral, 1955. 





178 Albert N. Mancini 


Pieri Marzio, Per Marino, Padova, Liviana, 1976. 

, Colombo in mare barocco, una metafora abortita, “Columbeis” 1 (1986), 
27-52. 

Piéjus Marie-Frangoise, Le pays des femmes homicides: utopie et monde a l'envers, in 
Espaces réels et espaces imaginaires dans le “Roland furieux”, Paris, C.I.R.R.I., 
1991, 87-127. 

Prosperi Adriano, America e Apocalisse. Note sulla conquista spirituale del Nuovo 
Mondo, “Critica storica” 13 (1976), 1-61. 

Quadrio F. S., Della storia e della ragione della poesia, Milano, nelle stampe di F. 
Agnelli, 1749. 

Ramusio Giovanni Battista, Navigazioni e viaggi, a c. di Marica Milanesi, Torino, 
Einaudi, 1978. 

Romeo Rosario, Le scoperte americane nella voscienza italiana del Cinquecento, 
prefazione di Rosario Villari, Roma, Laterza, 1989 (I ed., 1954). 

Sale Kirkpatrick, The Conquest of Paradise: Christopher Columbus and the 
Columbian Legacy, New York, Alfred A. Knopf, 1990. 

Sauer Carl Ortwin, The Early Spanish Main, Berkeley, U of California P, 1992 (I ed., 
1966). 

Soustelle Jacques, Gli Aztechi, Roma, Lucarini, 1987. 

Spina Giorgio, Cristoforo Colombo nella poesia epica italiana, Voghera, Tip. 
Successori Gatti, 1891. 

Stigliani Tommaso, Del Mondo Nuovo del Cavalier Tomaso Stigliani. Venti primi 
canti....,in Piacenza, per Alessandro Bazachi, 1617. 

, Il Mondo Nuovo del Cavalier Fra Tomaso Stigliani. Diviso in trentaquattro 
canti. Con gli argomenti dell’istesso autore, in Roma, appresso Giacomo 
Mascardi, 1628. 

Tassoni Alessandro, Lettere, ac. di P. Puliatti, Roma, Laterza, 1978. 

, La secchia rapita, Parigi, Tussan du Bray, 1622. 

Tiraboschi Girolamo, Storia della letteratura italiana, Firenze, Molini-Landi, 1812. 

Todorov Tzvetan, La conquéte de l' Amérique, Paris, Seuil, 1982. 

, Viaggiatori e indigeni, in L’uomo nel Rinascimento, a c. di E. Garin, Roma, 
Laterza, 1988. 

Vecchietti Filippo e Tommaso Moro, Biblioteca picena, tomo V. v. Osimo, D. A. 
Quercetti, 1796, 99-100. 

Wilford John Noble, The Mysterious History of Columbus, New York, Alfred A. 
Knopf, 1991. 








University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 







The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the 

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 

1909, links its distinguished past of internationally known 
faculty and alumni to a lively and timely intellectual exchange 
in the present. The Department offers M.A. degrees in French, 
Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. The Ph.D. degree is offered in 

French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and in Romance 

Philology. 













Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. René Girard is a Distinguished 
Adjunct Professor of Romance Languages. 











Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispandéfila, and Annali a’ Italianistica. 







Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 3,000,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. The Cooperative purchasing and borrowing 
programs with Duke University and North Carolina State University give easy 
access to those holdings that complement the University of North Carolina 
libraries. 












Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers 
numerous fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit 
Fellowships (including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-15,000; in 
addition to teaching stipends of $3,200 per section per semester, endowments 
enables the Department to offer supplemental scholarships of $1,000-2,000 to 
qualified students. Most students teach two or three sections of beginning 
language courses per academic year, according to their teaching experience and 
the University’s needs. 











Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to 
the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by 
writing to: The Graduate Secretary, Department of Romance Languages and 
Literatures, CB # 3170, 238 Dey Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 
Applicants requesting fellowships and assistantships must submit admission 
materials by February 1. 











Marzio Pieri 


Les Indes Farnesiennes. 
Sul poema colombiano di Tommaso Stigliani 


0. “Buscar le Americhe” dopo essere andati alla ricerca delle Indie, potrebbe anche 
essere — dall’incommensurabilmente pit grande al misurabilmente piccolo, 
veramente, in relazione, accantonabile — quello ch’é capitato alle mie ricerche 
nell’arco di oltre un decennio. Avrei, di partenza, desiderato approdare alle Indie 
(o forse Atlantidi) del Cavalier Marino — sul quale, e indarno procurai opporre 
uno scudo di forse non del tutto disarredata ironia, pesa oggi lo zelo della 
indifferente untuosita accademica come fino a ieri l’altro il fastidio dell’ ordine 
pinzochero avverso la fondativa intuizione di una disarmonia mundi — e mi 
ritrovo a pesticciare, ostinatamente, la rena di un terreno che si sarebbe potuto 
credere “de ningun provecho”, come quello di fra Tommaso Stigliani (frate, dei 
cavalieri di Malta) venuto ambiziosamente da Matera — “Si apriva la strada 
faticoso .. .”! — a sperdersi in Parma. Erano gli anni d’esordio del secolo XVII 
€ nessuno poteva sospettare che, retrospettivamente, si sarebbe sul secolo 
insediato un nome sonoro e vuoto come una conchiglia di mare: “il Barocco”. 
Anch’io mi sono sperduto da due decennii (@ la vita) in Parma, pare impossibile 
potersi oggi sperdere in Parma, era possibile allora, nei primi anni, decennii, del 
secolo XVII, disperdersi in Parma? V’é, a mezzo, un simbolo materiale, plastico, 
1’“invenzione” del Teatro Farnese, un teatro “nuovo”, “gigante” per la favola di 
un secolo che si vuole e si sente diverso. Una “meraviglia”? sonora e vuota, 
arzigogolata (“horror vacui . . .”) e sterile (@ in programma, ma forse, anche, in 
antitesi apotropaica: rischiosamente, desertamente sterili, troppo a lungo, le 
nozze del frenetico nevrotico leucemico Ranuccio con Margherita Aldobrandini; 
solo dopo tredici anni, nel 1612, il matrimonio aveva goduta la grazia di un 
figlio, quell’Odoardo di cui le nozze, con Margherita de’ Medici, nel 1628, 


1 V. A. Arullani, Gherardo Borgogni. Sue relazioni con lo Stigliani , in “Alba Pompeia”, II (1909), 
3-4, p. 105 (cit. in G. P. Maragoni, Stigliani “ne varietur” . Appunti sulla riscrittura del “‘Polifemo” , 
in “Lettere Italiane”, 1989/1, pp. 90-98). 

Una lettura del Teatro Famese tutta in chiave di “meraviglia” é diffusa soprattutto a livello, 
tuttavia, pubblicistico; cfr. A. Cavicchi, /] Teatro Farnese nella tradizione spettacolare emiliana, in 
A. Cavicchi-M. Dall’Acqua, /! Teatro Farnese di Parma, Parma, OSER [Orchestra Sinfonica 
dell’ Emilia-Romagna “Arturo Toscanini”], 1986, pp. 7-23. Ivi (p. 8) una citazione da Giason de 
Nores (Discorso intorno a que’ principi, cause et accrescimenti che la Commedia, la Tragedia ed il 
Poema Eroico ricevono dalla filosofia Morale e Civile, Padova, ante-1588): “. . . Pertanto é fondato 
ogni poema sulla meraviglia. Perciocché se non é tale, non partorisce negli animi nostri quel diletto 
che si propone l’uditore. Un convito, una giostra, una festa, uno spettacolo, un concerto di musica, 
se non ha in sé questa rarita, non appaga l’animo né mai compie di soddisfarlo. . . .” 


Les Indes Farnesiennes. Sul poema colombiano di T. Stigliani 181 


saranno l’occasione fausta per |’inaugurazione, a lungo rinviata, del teatro), un 
sarcofago in legno dolcissimo — dal “colore naturale di foglia morta e di miele 
selvatico, vagamente venato, qui e la, da rose appassite, da lilla polverosi, ori 
dolci”;? una “idea” “superbissima”,* sublimissima. 


I. Tommaso Stigliani entro in rapporti di servizio col duca di Parma, Ranuccio 
Farnese (1569-1622, perfetto coetaneo, dunque, di Giambattista Marino, che gli 
sopravvisse di soli tre anni), probabilmente dal 1603 e fu stabile in Parma dal 
1605 al 1621. A meta di quel “servizio”, ossia impiego il ducato é scosso a 
sangue — agli occhi dell’Italia, dell’Europa, inorridite, seppure il secolo, quello 
passato e quello incominciato, non erano scarsi di occasioni per cui inorridire — 
dalla ““congiura dei nobili”, con a capo o ispiratrice l’affascinante feudataria (qui 
bisogna un po’ farsi romanzieri, anche d’appendice, uso Victor Hugo, un po’ 
melodrammaturgi o fumettari) Barbara Sanseverino, stella fissa e troppo 
(comparativamente) luminosa, dal suo castello di Colorno, ombra alla corte 
farnese: é un fatto rimasto nella coscienza profonda e nella leggenda nera, con 
tocchi voluttuosi, della citta,> oggi ancora divisa fra un teatralismo dell’ esteriore, 
compensativo (1’allegria parmigiana, la cordialita esternata, sono sempre a voce 
alta, ““coram populo”, dunque, anche, esposte al controllo, alla censura “dei 
superiori” e dunque, insieme, “dalla dovuta distanza . . .”, per non 
compromettersi) e una ferita coazione alla dissimulazione cortigianesca. Fu una 
immensa, — “elisabettiana”, hitleriana, viscontiana (penso al Luchino Visconti, 
regista cinematografico italiano, de La caduta degli dei) — festa funebre barocca: 
“«, . le confessioni estorte con la violenza portarono nel 1612 all’impiccagione 
di centinaia di nobili sulla pubblica piazza di Parma ”.® 


II. Stigliani era (da quando, nel 1606, aveva assunto la presidenza, il 
“principato”, nella Accademia degli Incogniti, subentrando al maestro di 
Ranuccio, il nobile parmigiano Pomponio Torelli) l’intellettuale ufficiale, 
“nuovo”, della corte ranuccesca, il parto del poema su Colombo avrebbe dovuto 
assicurare alla casata, in ansiosa attesa di riconoscimenti e splendori “nuovi”, un 
principato poetico fra le corti d’Italia. Era aperta, sappiamo, dalla fine del secolo, 


3 Cosi, nel 1950, Jean-Louis Vaudoyer, accademico di Francia, cit. da M. Dall’ Acqua, // Teatro 
Farnese: “Monumento Europeo” , a p. 25 del libretto di cui alla nota precedente. 

“Superbissimo Theatro” lo chiama Marcello Buttigli piacentino, nella sua Descrittione 
dell’Apparato per honorare la prima, solenne entrata in Parma della Serenissima Principessa 
Margherita di Toscana, duchessa di Parma, Piacenza ecc., Parma, Viotti, 1629, cit. da Cavicchi, p. 
9. 

5 Al comparire della bella Barbara sul palco dell’esecuzione il boia si sarebbe lasciata sfuggire 
una osservazione sensuale, gaglioffa; e venne giustiziato a ruota di lei: per avere offesa una 
nobile. Si badi al mescolarsi, nel reale come nella fantasticheria, della carne e del sangue. 

R. Ciancarelli, [1 progetto di una festa barocca. Alle origini del Teatro Farnese di Parma 1(618- 
1629), Roma, Bulzoni, “Biblioteca del Cinquecento”, 1987, p. 21, nota 20. 


182 Marzio Pieri 


la successione al Tasso. Stigliani, non ritorno sopra un ritratto da me 
pennelleggiato molti anni fa, € insieme iroso, impetuoso (il duello col Davila, 
l’aggressivita antimariniana che esplodera nella polemica anti-adonica) e 
circospetto, frenato. Ambizione lo scioglie, ambizione lo imbraga; teme pit 
della morte l’essere preso in castagna, come si dice in Italia; cioé l’essere colto in 
errore, convinto di errore. Anche perché la forza della sua critica é tutta nel 
puntiglio con il quale spera e si picca di cogliere “in castagna”, in errore, gli 
altri; concorrenti, avversarii. Proprio su questa circospezione, su questo, 
malinteso, “fren dell’arte”, e, probabilmente, su errori tattici, o “gaffes”, in cui 
fosse incorso, nella difficile nautica di corte (il suo misoneismo, nutrito di 
chiusure mentali e d’invidia, e d’una quasi lirica vocazione al cavillo, non piu 
funzionale al bisogno di risalita della corte farnesiana, isolatasi nel bagno di 
sangue del ’12, da tutte le corti d’Italia, e d’Europa), Stigliani si gioca la grazia 
del duca. Il poema americano esce tassiano e vecchio. 


III. Cristoforo Colombo era, nel Cinquecento, un eroe “spagnuolo”. Non si apre 
qui il discorso, che a un certo punto parve quasi eterno, delle origini del 
navigatore. E sia pure di Genova. Nel Tiraboschi é accolta una notizia che piace 
almeno registrare: “Alcuni il vogliono piacentino, e natio di Pradello picciol 
villaggio nella valle di Nura. . . .” (“Il canonico Pier Maria Campi ha scritta su 
cid una lunghissima dissertazione inserita nel terzo tomo della sua Storia 
ecclesiastica di Piacenza . . . , la qual non fu pubblicata che nel 1662, tredici 
anni dopo la morte del suo autore”).? Sessantadue meno tredici farebbe 
quarantanove, dico 1649, quando il vecchione Stigliani ne aveva due ancora di 
vita; era a Roma, del resto. E se di una origine piacentina, dunque recuperabile 
alle glorie farnesiane, avesse avuta notizia antica, non v’é da credere che, nel 
poema del Colombo, non ne avrebbe cercato frutto.’ La prima edizione del 


7 G. Tiraboschi, Storia della letteratura italiana, vol. I, Capo VI, IX, Ragioni de’ Piacentini; nella 
edizione di Milano, per Nicolé Bettoni, 1833, p. 580. 

8 “Cristoforo Colombo Genovese . . .”, scrive lo Stigliani (ed é un sonoro endecasillabo incip: rio, 
in prosa), dando il sunto del Mondo nuovo (amplificato, rispetto alla stampa, dove 1’ incipit é, forse 
significativamente, diverso: “Cristoforo Colombo uomo di supremo valore . . .”) in principio del 
poema, come si legge in una copia dell’edizione 1628 corretta di mano dell’ Autore, alla Nazionale 
di Roma (cfr. M. Menghini, Tommaso Stigliani. Contributo alla storia letteraria del secolo XVII, 
Genova, 1890, pp. 128-129). Il sunto pud riuscire utile a chi non avesse conoscenza del poema 
“americano” (in parentesi quadre segno alcune partizioni interne giovevoli alla percezione della 
struttura, non molto energica, della tela narrata): “[1] Cristoforo Colombo Genovese, uomo di 
supremo valore in ambedue le pit principali professioni (dico Armi, e Lettere) essendosi partito di 
Spagna con uno esercito marittimo datogli da quel re per lo cercamento del Mondo nuovo, arriva 
per vari travagli a quello, e n’acquista per forza una regione la pid’ importante, cioé l’isola d’ Aiti, 
oltre quella di Borchen acquistata per altro caso che di guerra. Ma perché il numero de’ nemici é 
stato grandissimo egli non ha potuto conseguir questa vittoria senza grande scemamento de’ suoi 
soldati. Onde [2] aspirando tuttavia all’acquisto del restante, e disegnando percid d’andare in 
Ispagna a rifare armata nuova, tripartisce la vecchia in due parti piccole ed una grossa. Delle due 


| Les Indes Farnesiennes. Sul poema colombiano di T. Stigliani 183 


Mondo Nuovo,’ in venti canti (ma imperfetta) come la Liberata, esce, 
comunque, a Piacenza, per Alessandro Bazacchi, nel 1617. Noto il fatto. Nel 
1617 scoppia nei cieli ranucceschi !’idea di quello che sarebbe stato il Teatro 
Farnese; si trattava, com’é noto, in esordio, per festeggiare intimativamente il 
passaggio solenne da Parma (ma andato a vuoto) del potente granduca di Toscana, 
di trasformare la sala d’armi della Pilotta (il palazzo di corte) in Teatro. Non 
posso costringere il lettore a ragionare cosi: la sala d’armi equivale al poema 
d’armi, “heroico”, antico. I] Teatro Farnese, fin dall’origine mentale, congeda lo 
Stigliani e i letterati “heroici”, poematici, come lui. II Politico, come sovente 
Capita, € avanti ai suoi consiglieri e funzionarii, specialmente quando essi siano 
prudenti e mediocri. Noto il fatto. La seconda edizione, e il compimento, del 
poema dello Stigliani esce, a Roma, in trentaquattro canti, per i tipi di Giacomo 
Mascardi, (e dedica al Re di Spagna), nel 1628. Lo stesso anno, il figlio di 
Ranuccio sposa la Medici e il Teatro Farnese si inaugura, con |’“‘opera-torneo” 
del 21 dicembre (soprintendente il marchese Bentivoglio, poeta 1’ Achillini, 
musiche di Claudio Monteverdi; é, ora, “il Seicento”, cui lo Stigliani forse era 





piccole una delibera di menar seco, e ]’altra lascia in Aiti chiusa in una fortezza di legno sotto la 
cura di Salazaro Capitan de’ Venturieri, al quale da in iscritto una prudentissima istruzione intorno 
al modo con che esso s’abbia a governare. Ma alla terza parte ch’é la pit grossa, e la piu 
bellicosa, impone che vada facendo nuovi scoprimenti ed acquisti, in quel mezzo che egli 
s’indugiera a tornar di Spagna, e commettela in governo a Silvarte, al quale da parimenti un altro 
foglio d’istruzione conforme allo dato a Salazaro. [3] Partesi dunque il Colombo, partesi Silvarte, e 
rimane Salazaro. Silvarte va verso mezzodi, e soggioga molti regni della penisola australe, insin 
che muore nella Caribana. In cambio del quale succedendo Dulipante, ne soggioga alquanti altri. 
[4] I1 Colombo va verso tramontana, e per alcuni accidenti vede diversi paesi, da’ quali 
ultimamente (senza esser potuto andare in Ispagna, per cagione che gli é mancata la vettovaglia) 
se ne ritorna pure ad Aiti, dove ritrova essere ancora ritornata la parte che fu di Silvarte. Ma 
quella che fu di Salazaro trova essere stata abbruciata insieme colla medesima fortezza, [6] e se 
ne vien con quelle ad Aiti, la qual trova essersi in tutto ribellata. Di che egli non isbigottisce, ma 
raguna con gran sollecitudine altre forze numerose nuove dagli altri Regni non ribelli. E dopo aver 
con ambedue gli aiuti ricuperata essa Aiti [7] rompe in un fatto d’armi navale un grandissimo 
esercito raccolto per lega da quasi tutti i Re del detto Mondo, e cosi finisce l’intera conquista di 
uello”. 

Del Mondo Nuovo del Cavalier Tomaso Stigliani. Venti Primi Canti. Co i sommarii dell’ istesso 
Autore dietro a ciaschedun d'essi, e con una lettera del medesimo in fine, la qual discorre sopra 
d'alcuni ricevuti avvertimenti intorno a tutta l’ opera. Con Privilegio del Serenissimo di P [arma] 
P.[iacenza]. In Piacenza per Alessandro Bazacchi 1617. Ho ripubblicata la Lettera Risponsiva 
dell’ Autore al Signore Aquilino Coppini Lettor Publico di Umanitd nello Studio di Pavia (data: Di 
Parma, a’ 2 di Marzo 1617] alle pp. 389-411 del mio Per Marino, Padova, Liviana, 1976. Sono 
tomato sullo Stigliani in tre occasioni: Stigliani a Parma, in “Paragone/Letteratura”, 1978, 344, pp. 
19-29; Colombo in mare baroco, una metafora abortita, in Columbeis I, Genova, Istituto di Filologia 
Classica e Medievale, 1986, pp. 27-52; e: Una ricusata ‘Parma nuova’ nel poema farnesiano di 
Tommaso Stigliani, in “Archivi per la Storia”, Rivista dell’ Associazione Nazionale Archivistica 
Italiana, 1988, I, pp. 275-340 (dove si anticipa, limitatamente ai canti primo/ primo-secondo, la 
ristampa delle due redazioni, Piacentina e Romana, del Mondo nuovo, da me intrapresa per il 
“Centro Studi Archivio Barocco” dell’ Universita di Parma). 





184 Marzio Pieri 


rimasto estraneo). Noto il fatto. Oggettivamente attorno a quella inaugurazione- 
manifestazione, a quella epifania ventottana, esce nel 1627 a Venezia, dello 
Stigliani, l’Occhiale a confutazione del Marino; esce, nel 1629, a Venezia, 
dell’ Aleandri (ma, insieme, vantatamente, dell’ Achillini) la Difesa dell’ Adone. 
Ora i giochi sono tutti aperti (morto Marino, che lascia dire). Noto di nuovo il 
fatto. 


IV. Ora si pud riassumere: la pit accreditata critica stiglianesca (fino a Franco 
Croce, a Ottavio Bésomi) dava per ammesso, senza troppi patemi, che lo 
Stigliani “poeta”, é quello del Canzoniero ed ivi, in particolare, 1’autore di pochi 
eccezionali componimenti (come suona un titolo illustre) “tra parodia e 
critica”;!° in questo concordava la risposta (stilistico-storicistica) della attenzione 
alla “poesia” e quella (stilistico-strutturalistica) della osservazione della 
“retorica”. Il tempo passando, convalida la naturalezza argomentativa dello 
studioso italiano e la maestria ai limiti dello squisito accademico dello studioso 
svizzero. L’ircocervo, fra i giovani, Maragoni, (ircocervo perché retoricamente e 
accademicamente squisitissimo, fuoruscito da scuole pit realisticamente italiche, 
— ma é da calcolare, in mezzo, la componente arcadico-aristocratica romana del 
Maragoni) ha chiamato attenzione sul Polifemo, anch’esso nella doppia redazione 
(giovanile, milanese, del 1600 pari-pari; a stampa; e senile, a distanza di poco 
meno di cinquant’anni, “nella complessiva revisione del Canzoniero 
testimoniataci” da un codice napoletano). Marino, con Adone, “incontra” (sembra 
incontrare; trova obiettivo, possibile riscontro in) Shakespeare; Stigliani, con 
Polifemo, “incontra” Géngora (1612), come col suo poema “americano” (epopea 
dell’eroe degli Spagnuoli) incontra il poema “africano” (epopea dell’eroe dei 
Portoghesi) di Camoens (1572). Polifemo, figlio del mare, con un occhio 
soltanto (l’occhio della carne): dirupatore di montagne, maremoto; — gli 
“Indiani”: da sottrarre (per ferro e per fuoco) al “rito immondo”. Non molti i 
cenni iconografici dello Stigliani, in materia; archi, frecce, plume, mai col gusto 
nemmeno di quei caroselli con le penne in colori e il turcasso istoriato, dei quali 
il Marino mai si faceva fuggire occasione. Semmai, non dimentica mai di 
richiamare alla nudita delle “selvagge”. L’ America, sarebbe cosi come la Parigi 
dei “viaggi d’iniziazione” (il padre provinciale, navigato, col figliuolo, o “pupo”, 
da erudirsi, fra tabarini e moulins-rouges, ballerine dell’Opera e can-can), qui 
l’Europeo castigato, ossessionato da esami di coscienza privati e pubblici auto- 
da-fé, pud ritrovare se stesso “al naturale”. Un altro mezzo, anche per liberarsi dai 
fantasmi, era la strage pubblica, l’esecuzione dei rei (delle ree), sul palco, in 
piazza; tutti insieme appassionatamente. Per stuprare una femmina, insidiarla, 
maneggiarla, squisitissimamente “farla fare” a manigoldi e carnefici, ogni 


. 


momento @ buono e se la femmina é impura (strega, eretica, indiana, 


100, Besomi, Tommaso Stigliani: tra parodia e critica, in “Studi Secenteschi”, XT (1972). Per F. 
Croce cfr. il suo Tre momenti del Barocco letterario italiano, Firenze, Sansoni, 1966. 


Les Indes Farnesiennes. Sul poema colombiano di T. Stigliani 185 


cospiratrice, rubella) non si dovra venire a patti con la coscienza. II lettore del 
Mondo nuovo non fatica a rendersene conto. 

Questo compiacimento delle stragi (il “sacro macello” delle Amazzoni, con 
la loro regina machiavellica, € un modo di replicare la Festa Farnesiana del 
Dodici) era la chiave d’interpretazione del mio vecchio saggio stiglianesco, dove 
del resto il titolo (Contre Stigliani) in un libro che si faceva chiamare Per 
Marino, denunciava lealmente, perfino ingenuamente, la limitazione di 
prospettiva. Il ritratto del Materano, tutto dipinto “in negativo”, e quasi in 
controparte, rispetto ad una immagine, generosamente e del resto tardivamente 
riabilitata, del Cavalier Marino. Volli risalire da caratteri a, quasi, biologie; da 
quelle recuperare due stili avversi. E lo Stigliani del poema, che a me pareva 
comunque da ricondurre sul piano verisimile del duello, fra due obiettive 
poematicita, che ci fu, rinchiuso con soddisfazione plenaria, ma un poco acida, 
nei suoi “non possumus”, nei suoi “vorrei, ma non potrei”. Una cosa a me 
pareva decisiva: uno Stigliani che fosse, per qualche “corriero in Parnaso”, 
venuto a sapere che in favore di lui si armeggiava, da critici benintenzionati, per 
riscattarlo dalla via secondaria, dall’“uscita di sicurezza” delle rime giocose, 
avrebbe dato in testa a quelle brave persone il bastone cui da vecchio avra 
appoggiato il passo; e tutto il gran volume della Colombeide. Nello stesso giro 
d’anni una fortunata Mostra del Guercino, a Bologna, (parve l’avessero visitata 
proprio tutti tutti, a rimedio di antiche inette diminuzioni) aveva ridiviso gli 
osservatori fra l’ammirazione per la varia, spiegata, succosa attivita del 
disegnatore, del bozzettista, dell’annotatore di schegge in vista di piu grandi e 
solenni compiti “storici”, e, relativamente, l’indifferenza o il sospetto per le pale 
d’altare, i quadroni e le corpulenze, ma non é male richiamarsi ogni tanto alla 
consapevolezza di intenzioni degli artisti, e dei loro critici elettivi, che hanno 
diritto, credo, alla parola; per essi il San Guglielmo d’ Aquitania gia in San 
Gregorio, quel telone di tre metri e cinquanta per due e trenta, parso “tavola senza 
paragone bellissima” all’autore della Felsina pittrice, e “che altrettanto atterrisce 


. 


e diletta”, é un capolavoro. Forse il capolavoro del pittore da Cento. 


V. Chi da giudizio di poema non deve sottrarsi alla contemplazione di quanto sia 
dunque, il poema, macchina e fatica grande; contemplazione che fu dello 
Stigliani in modi e prudenze, e quasi ossessivi rinvii. Certo, nemmeno a 
quest’altra consapevolezza dobbiamo sottrarci, che stavano per esaurirsi le 
potenzialita di “meraviglia” di questi caravanserragli della parola, della 
verbalizzazione del mondo; il gioco delle carte e dell’inchiostro implicava una 
veste claustrale. E anche questione di tempi, proprio di tempi che nuove arti, 
nuovi macchinismi, nuove magnificenze della materia e della tecnica rendono pit 
febbrili e speditivi; come non fare il calcolo che mentre invano lo Stigliani 
promette, al signore, un “poema grande”, e intanto passano gli anni, e il poema 
non si vede e poi esce incompiuto, e non risolve; una volta deciso, fuori della 
scrupolosa e quasi ricattatoria biblioteca, di scrivere un poema “‘aperto”, di spazil 





186 Marzio Pieri 


e false prospettive e arcate e legnami preziosi, e idoli statuarii o dipinti, il 
fulmine dell’ Aleotti, architetto teatrale di Ranuccio, tiene dietro al baleno; un 
anno, per questo ch’é il vero poema farnesiano. Oggi piu che nel primo mio 
riflettere sulla questione, mi sembra tuttavia d’obbligo non puntare al cuore dei 
“difetti” dello Stigliani poematico, intendendoli come difetti assoluti, di fantasia, 
d’energia; come uno scalatore che avendo ambito a violare una vetta preclusa alle 
sue forze, ci tiene dapprima col fiato sospeso ma, nel suo salvarsi con la 
disciplina e il gioco al risparmio, non ci lega pit a lungo. In qualche modo, 
meno glorioso, riuscira a riscendere a valle. E difetto essenziale era parso, allora, 
il non essersi lasciato affascinare Stigliani dal senso della avventura, marina e 
americana; Cristoforo Colombo, |’“heroe spagnuolo”, é solo un figurino, un 
soldatino, diviso fra la retorica (nuovo Goffredo, novello Enea) e la diplomazia. 
Come tutte le volte che non si arriva, criticamente, a centrare un problema, mi 
ero lasciato suggerire dalla bella pagina: “. . . quanta polvere. / E vorrebb’essere 
odore di mare, vento d’aperti oceani, aria di terre lontane e nuove — I’aspra, 
rassodante ebrezza dell’avventura —. Sul frontespizio del Mondo Nuovo, una 
grama xilografia esibisce la ‘Figura del Mondo Nuovo detto America’; tra il Mar 
del Sur, immenso, e il Mar del Norte inciso di frastagli, leggi nomi propizii, 
ancor ieri, alle letizie della fantasia: Messico Pert Brasil; l’Isola di Aiti, lo 
Stretto di Magellano; in basso, ai margini estremi, le Terre Australi Incognite. . 
. . Un grano di pazzia, uno solo!, e annovereremmo lo Stigliani tra i precursori 
di Salgari”; Emilio Salgari, che sul finire dell’onesto Ottocento, moveva in Italia 
galeoni e prahos malesi, gambusinos e spadaccini, di sopra i quadratini 
dell’atlante geografico, al soffio forte di un universo dei Nomi. 

Oggi mi pare che Stigliani e Marino abbiano avuto consapevolezza precoce 
di quel declino sociale del primato letterario; estroverso e sicuro (ironico), 
Marino contrattacca abolendo la pressione dell’“io”. Autobiografismo in epoché, 
lecito solo per antifrasi e obiettivazione comica. La “meraviglia del poema” é 
assicurata ad una voce alta ed anonima (l’anonimato “sinfonico” dell’ orchestra), 
ad una frase di per sé vigente, a uno squillo in perpetuo che annullano ogni 
inflessione 0 inclinazione esistenziale. E l’universo cristallizzato. Insicuro e 
introverso (incapace di distacco e di attenuazione), Stigliani sente come una 
minaccia, come un intorbidimento, ogni sintesi formulare, ogni cancellazione 
verbale dell’empirico. Sente come un assoluio lirico una personalita che, 
realmente scissa e torbida, refrattaria e voluttuosa, in sé lirica non é. Le terre 
lontane, l’avventura, l’epos colombiano, il “sentito dire” di tradimenti, di assedii, 
di sacri macelli, di eldoradi e fantastiche citta; la leggenda nera e la consacrazione 
cristiana di un mondo perduto; il magistero manieristico (quello dello Stigliani @ 
un mondo fatto di citazioni non meno di quello del Marino), la vendetta 
accademica (l’invenzione di un “cavalier marino” fra i nuovi mostri delle terre 
incognite), agiscono in lui come deserte e piccose riconferme di un “io” che ha 
bisogno di linimenti fantastici, di compensi romanzeschi. Anticipa il figurino, 
recente, dell’intellettuale meridionale, pieno di sogni e di bisogni, di impegni e 





Les Indes Farnesiennes. Sul poema colombiano di T. Stigliani 187 


di rivendicazioni, che chiude o chiudeva la giornata febbrile nel cinema di 
periferia (non escludendo quelli “a luci rosse”, da moralista, “per rendermi conto . 
. .”) € poi, uscitone con qualche vergogna, sterminatamente € occupato a 
castigare quei fantasmi, tentazioni, in una catena di “veri”. 


VI. E, — qui lo scatto in istile, — in precisioni “dal vero”, in circostanziazioni, 
in descrizioni puntigliose, di scarso prestigio formulare quanto di sudata, 
paziente, quasi eroica approssimazione fraseologica; quasi intuendo un lettore 
che, per l’avvenire, sara piu allontanato che sedotto da una troppa elazione e 
autonomia formale (“meraviglia”) del fraseggio. Il lettore mediano sara convinto 
da un rispetto mediano, “servile”, delle nodosita del verisimile; saranno lettori (ad 
essi guarda lo Stigliani didattico, educatore, linguaiolesco, elaboratore di un 
fortunato manuale di metrica, castigatore delle vuote altezze, della intera 
metafora, del poema mariniano) che son curiosi di sentirsi dire come una barca é 
tratta in secco, come un marinaro, e sia pure il Colombo, riesca a scrivere su una 
carta nel pieno d’una tempesta, come una regina barbara e ribalda venga 
sbudellata sul palco, come una avventura non si compendii in luminosa cifra 
finale, ma si componga di oscuri conati, di battute vuote, di tempi, anche, morti. 
Un minimo specimine (canto XVII, stanze dalla 136): 


In questo mezo il campo in schiera messo 
Scoccd due colubrine a |’habitato. 

Ché i cittadin dele contrade appresso 

Gia havean qualche tumulto incominciato. 
Quest’arme humanita lor persuase, 

Si ch’invitaro i nostri a le lor case. 


I Cnstiani alloggiaro, e fu a ciascuno 
Dato un albergo, ove la notte stero. 
Stanchezza a pien si trassero e digiuno, 
Ma predar ad altrui nulla potéro, 

Per un divieto, che la sera a ognuno 

Gli araldi a nome di Silvarte féro, 

Che di tor non havessero ardimenti 
Cose altre, ch’al cibarsi appartenenti. 


Vedevansi cavati in varij vasi 

Grandi smeraldi in molti alberghi, e in molti. 
E le pit vili Donne al petto spasi 

Tenean monili d’oro, e in collo avvolti, 

Di ch’ad alcun guerriero il seno quasi 
Scoppiava, e si dolean con tristi volti, 
C’havesse quella nobile ricchezza 

A barbari a restar, da chi si sprezza. 


188 Marzio Pieri 


La vegnente mattina il buon Silvarte, 
Ch’era dormito nel palazzo regio, 

I pit prudenti raguno in disparte, 

E di cid, che s’ha a far, tenne collegio: 
Se gir’innanzi a la pensata parte, 

O quest’altra acquistar di non men pregio, 
La qual’egli ponendo in sua balia, 

Il tributo anco del Dorato havria. 


Conchiuso fu, che per minor viaggio, 

Al Regno femminil si mova guerra, 

E’] campo faccia a l’isola passaggio, 

Che’! gran fiume de’ fiumi in sé riserra. 
Lascid dunque ivi in guardia, il Duce saggio, 
De le quattro Caribe e de la Terra, 

Cinquanta armati, che fra gli altri elesse, 

E con tutto l’avanzo in via si messe. 


Su l’hora, ch’al meriggio il Sole é giunto, 
Giunsero a un loco de 1’istessa riva, 

Dove barche infinite eran, ch’assunto 
Prendon di tragittar chiunque arriva, 

A V’isola metropoli, ch’a punto 

Quivi a rincontro sorgere appariva, 
Quasi una lega lungi al gran terreno, 
Verdissima, ed aprica, e d’aere ameno. 


Tal nel lito di Padua é il varco breve, 

Ch’a Vinetia suol farsi a tutte l’hore, 

E tale é in vista il numero non lieve 

De l’aspettanti mercenarie prore: 

Se un fiume a un mar paragonar si deve, 

Ben ch’ Adria del Caribo é si minore, 

Che l’un ponendo a petto a |’altro, pare 

Pit tosto il mare un fiume, e’] fiume un mare. 


Insomma: “buscar Venezia”, o la Barca di Padova, passando dall’Eldorado, dal 
Caribo, e dall’Orinoco. 


VII. Pid vicino alla cronaca militare (“‘il Sergente nella neve . . .”) o all’inchiesta 
giudiziaria (“come le cose di fatto si sono svolte . . .”) che al teatro-poema 
(“come le cose possibili si sono fissate in idea . . .”), Stigliani realizza la cosa 
nuova di un poema abbassato e collettivo, di una scrittura cui la scadenza 
prosodica e rimica assicura dall’esterno un minimo di innaturalezza, di artisticita, 
per non trasandare definitivamente (prosasticamente . . .) il fluire inghippato e la 
fatica della frase. Non possiamo far finta di avere dimenticato che poeti recenti, 


Les Indes Farnesiennes. Sul poema colombiano di T. Stigliani 189 


contemporanei, in un gioco fra (neo)realismo e (neo)avanguardia, hanno alle 
volte fatto il medesimo, per intenzione analoga. In Italia, penso ad esempio al 
Pagliarani de La ragazza Carla, stretta fra la controriforma italiana degli anni 
Cinquanta e il carnevale Barocco che ne segui, al quale del resto dobbiamo se, nel 
trattare di queste vecchie trapassate cose d’un mondo davvero molto vecchio 
(‘pre-colombiano . . .”), ci tloviamo sorpresi ad accorgerci che non abbiamo mai 
smesso di parlare di noi.” 


Universita degli Studi di Parma 


* Uno studio recente di Claudia Peirone (Universita di Torino) permette di aggiungere un tassello 
di rilievo alle nostre conoscenze relative a un Colombo “in mare baroco”: nel poema esameronico 
del Murtola, “lunghissimo (poco meno di 1500 ottave complessivamente)” e di struttura “aperta” 
(la distinzione basilare é quella delle giornate della creazione “ma ogni giomo comprende uno o 
pid canti [per un massimo di sei canti nel terzo giorno]”) il rivale torinese del Marino non si lascia 
sfuggire alcuna opportunita di “inserimento di altre e significative parti che testimoniano la 
presenza di problematiche nuove che lo spirito decisamente cortigiano e vivacemente curioso del 
Murtola non tarda a fare proprie”; ossia “encomi, il racconto di imprese militari, di tornei, di un 
mondo... tutto ‘umano’ che ancora il Tasso aveva tenuto volutamente al di fuori del suo poema” 
(il Mondo creato), la “descrizione accurata e precisa di luoghi geografici di tutto il mondo e in 
particolare italiani” (Roma e Venezia: Torino e il Piemonte, Genova e la Liguria: la Sicilia: e 
“fiumi e laghi importanti della nostra penisola”) e finalmente — che é il boccone appetitoso 
anticipato — una relazione del viaggio e della scoperta dell’America da parte di Cristoforo 
Colombo, salutato come “l’inventor glorioso e accorto di duo gran Mondi” (Peirone, “All’apparir 
del vero”: conoscenza e fede nei poemi sull’ origine del mondo, in AA.VV. “Cantami o Diva”: la 
tradizione del poema, Torino, Tirrenia Stampatori, 1992, nella collana “L’avventura letteraria” 
diretta da G. Barberi Squarotti, F. Spera e B. Zandrino, pp. 147-171, in particolare pp. 156-159, 
con riferimento al libro terzo della terza giomata del poema, stanze 74-89). Cosi, Colombo 
incrocia Marino sia sulla rotta ostile di Torino (Muntola) sia sulla rotta nemica di Parma (Stigliani); 
o Marino, puod darsi, incrocia le due rotte reciproche intercettando |’ambizioso (sintomatico) 
galeone colombiano. Resta da rilevare, al caso del Murtola, l’incrociarsi, per via di Colombo, del 
tema “mondo creato” col tema “mondo nuovo”, il che consente di accendere un debito 
“strutturale” o di convergenza, nel segno della “apertura” e della “enciclopedia” dell’Adone 
presso la succursale torinese del poema cosmologico (aggregativo). Niente di tutto questo nella 
struttura sostanzialmente lineare e cronistica del Mondo nuovo, la cui intenzione di “umilta” 
stilistica non poteva certo sedurre il Marino; soloché al Murtola mancava (ahimé, non 
intenzionalmente) la “meraviglia”che potesse inarcare sulla cresta dello stile le sue seducenti 
ambizioni strutturali e cortigianescamente repertoriali (“linea Tasso”). Il sermo humilis del 
Materano (meno volatile e pit’ ossessivo) finiva con l’imporre una scelta di campo scomoda e 
(dunque) pericolosa; rifiutata la via “aperta” (implicitamente eretica, quanto meno, anche, 
convergentemente “galileiana” del Colombo, era il Colombo ad essere integrato nella via “chiusa” 
di una ortodossia indispettita e ricattatoria. E al Marino poteva, a tratti, riuscire non 
(concorrenzialmente) seduttivo, ma (oppositivamente) minaccioso. 





Franco Vazzoler 


Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane”. 
Comicita ed esotismo nell’Atfalipa, 
dramma per musica di Gerolamo Gigli 





.. . Che strani casi, 

che vicende le mie! Parto di Spagna 
sull'orme d'un Re Moro 

che rapito m'aveva il mio tesoro; 
corro per tutta Francia, 

per tutta l'Allemagna, 

per il Pert, per il Mississipi 

e per mare alla fine arrivo qui... . 
(Baretti 39) 


L’approdo di questo lungo itinerario attraverso l’Europa prima e poi |’ America, il 
vecchio e il nuovo mondo é Venezia, il viaggiatore un personaggio d’eccezione, 
trattandosi di Don Chisciotte, che ha compiuto in questo modo anche un altro 
trasferimento, forse ben piii avventuroso, dalle pagine della novela di Cervantes 
alla scena di un intermezzo musicale di Giuseppe Baretti — Don Chisciotte in 
Venezia, appunto — scritto molto probabilmente per il Teatro italiano di Londra 
diretto dal Vanneschi negli anni 1752-1753 e riproposto in edizione critica quasi 
una ventina di anni fa da Franco Fido (Baretti 15-42).! 

Corrispondendo le tappe iniziali di questo itinerario con quelle della fortuna 
del romanzo cervantino sulle scene europee (dal Ballet de Don Quichot dansé par 
Sautenir a Parigi nel 1614 al Don Chisciotte in Sierra Morena di Pariati e Conti 
rappresentato a Vienna nel 1719), si sarebbe tentati di darne una lettura meta- 
teatrale, se l’assenza dell’ Inghilterra (dove nel 1649 era stata rappresentata The 
Comical History of Don Quixote di d’Urfey e Purcell) da un lato e, dall’altro, le 
localizzazioni americane non lo caratterizzassero senz’ombra di dubbio come un 


111 Don Chisciotte in Venezia era stato gia pubblicato, ma in modo insoddisfacente, da Irene 
Mamcezarz 639-53. La datazione 1752-1753 @ quella proposta da Jonard 110-11; 154-56 ed 
accolta come l’“ipotesi pid’ plausibile” da Fido (Baretti 12), pur suggerendo anche la data del 
secondo soggiomo veneziano del Baretti, negli anni 1747-1748. E stato lo stesso Fido (Paradiso 89) 
a suggerire che “l’idea di far approdare l’ingegnoso hidalgo di Cervantes sulla laguna” sia 
derivata a Baretti da un “divertimento comico-critico”, L’ opera in commedia, pubblicato anonimo 
nel 1726, nel cui prologo Don Chisciotte, giunto a Venezia, discorre con un impresario teatrale 
chiamato “Orso in peata”. Di questo “divertimento” ha scritto diffusamente Ferroni 70-72. 











Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 191 


percorso puramente immaginario e fantastico.” 

Un’avventura teatrale di Don Chisciotte nel Nuovo Mondo, proprio in quel 
Peru, che nell’intermezzo di Baretti é soltanto un’iperbole geografica, era stata 
immaginata, pero, pil O meno mezzo secolo prima, in un libretto per musica — 
a conferma del fatto che il destino scenico di Don Chisciotte ¢ eminentemente un 
destino musicale — pubblicato a Siena e sfuggito, per via del titolo, alle ricerche 
degli studiosi della fortuna teatrale di Cervantes. Si tratta dell’Atalipa, “dramma 
per musica” di Gerolamo Gigli, un autore che pid di una volta ha portato il 
personaggio di Cervantes sulla scena, anche se é ricordato quasi esclusivamente a 
proposito delle sue rielaborazioni molieriane.? 

Questo libretto non compare nelle varie raccolte delle opere di Gigli, ma é 
tramandato da una edizione pubblicata a Siena (nella Stamperia del Pubblico, dai 
tipografi Fantini e Gatti)* senza data e anonima. L’attribuzione al Gigli risale al 
Corsetti: 


Concepi tanta stima di lui 1’Imperatore Leopoldo ed i successori Augusto Giuseppe I e 
Carlo VI che da quello fu chiamato a Vienna, invitando con largo premio tanto lui che 
tutta la sua famiglia, e dichiarandolo Poeta Cesareo; e questi recitavano 
personalmente le di lui commedie, ed ebbe ordine da quella corte di terminare il terzo 
atto dell’Atalipa. Ma nudriva il Gigli per la sua patria cosi tenero affetto, che volle a 
quello posporre ogni suo vantaggio, sottraendosi all’impegno coll’addurre 
modestamente in iscusa la debolezza delle sue forze, incapaci di sostener con decoro 
un cosi ragguardevole incarico. 

(16) 


2 Sulla fortuna teatrale del romanzo (e del suo protagonista) cfr. almeno Espinés, Diego, Fucilla e 
Sedwick. In ambiente veneziano andra, comunque, ricordato il Don Chisiotto di Morosini e Sajon, 
citato anche da Fido (Paradiso 89), su cui cfr. anche Kunze 76; Mangini 86; Rossi. Sul 
melodramma di Pariati cfr. ora anche Gronda 223-24. 

Cfr. soprattutto Toldo 303-25; ma questo cliché critico é confermato da tutta la critica recente: 

cfr. la scheda premessa da Turchi al testo del Don Pilone in Commedia del Settecento. Ad uno 
studio pil articolato della produzione del Gigli in rapporto alla concreta situazione teatrale primo- 
settecentesca (il teatro dei dilettanti, dei collegi, delle Accademie ecc.) ha invitato recentemente 
Schino 603-04. Un’attenzione particolare alla presenza di Don Chisciotte nell’opera di Gigli é 
stata posta da Flaccovio 35-49, da Binni 187 e, limitatamente alla commedia Un pazzo guarisce 
l’altro, da Manciotti 26-27. 
4 Gli esemplari da me consultati sono conservati presso la Biblioteca Nazionale Braidense di 
Milano, collocati rispettivamente SS VII 83/4 e SS VII 95/4. Un terzo esemplare (Racc. Dramm. 
1950/2) @ mutilo (manca il terzo atto) e senza frontespizio. Pur essendo esemplari della stessa 
edizione, il catalogo a schede della Braidense indica come data per il primo il XVII e per il 
secondo il XVIII secolo. Una delle due edizioni (quella segnata SS VII 83/4) porta a penna sul 
frontespizio, con una grafia antica, l’indicazione del nome del Gigli come autore. L’Atalipa, 
assente dai repertori dell’ Allacci e del Sonneck, @ invece registrata in Sartori 361, senza perd 
indicazione dell’autore. Nelle citazioni dall’Atalipa e dalle altre opere di Gigli ho rispettato la 
grafia originale, limitandomi ad ammodemare la punteggiatura. Ho indicato le pagine, poiché 
manca la numerazione dei versi, tutte le volte in cui non sono indicati gli atti e le scene. 


192 Franco Vazzoler 


Il Corsetti non specifica l’anno a cui rinviare questo episodio, rendendo cosi pit 
difficile stabilire con precisione la data di composizione dell’Atalipa.> Secondo lo 
Stieger (I 1 118 e II 1 138) — il quale non indica pero la fonte di questa notizia 
— fu rappresentata a Siena, nel Collegio Tolomei nel 1688, con le musiche di 
Stefano Fabbrini.® 

Una rappresentazione avvenne sicuramente a Milano, nel 1701 presso 
l’Oratorio segreto di San Lorenzo Maggiore, di cui ci @ rimasto il programma 
(Gigli, Atalipa, 1701) con il riassunto scena per scena che corrisponde 
fedelmente ai libretti a stampa.’ 

La stampa che tramanda il libretto e la segnalazione, da parte del De Angelis 
(333), delle Contrascene facetissime per musica fatte per I’ Atalipa fra le opere 
rimaste manoscritte del Gigli rinviano in ogni caso alla vita teatrale senese e ad 
un momento dell’attivita del Gigli e dei suoi rapporti con i Gesuiti, prima della 
rappresentazione del Don Pilone, del tutto inesplorato e trascurato fino ad oggi. 
E meritevole di un approfondimento se, anche ad una rapida scorsa dei titoli 
raccolti dal Sommervogel alla voce Sienne (1193-1196), le rappresentazioni del 
Collegio Tolomei appaiono molto interessate al comico, all’intrattenimento, in 
una situazione, come quella senese, tradizionalmente ricca di fermenti teatrali. E 
sufficiente, per ora, rilevarvi l’interesse, del tutto originale alla fine del XVII 
secolo ed in anticipo rispetto a quanto sarebbe avvenuto nel secolo successivo, 
per il romanzo di Cervantes, fino a quel momento oggetto in Italia, a parte la 
traduzione del Franciosini, che é del 1622-1625, di qualche sparuta citazione (cfr. 
Mele, Croce, Flaccomio, Fucilla) e di una sola riduzione teatrale, quella di Marco 
Morosini, con musica di Carlo Sajon, a Venezia al Teatro del Morosini in 
Canaregio, nel 1680, in cui — come si legge nell’Argomento — “di Chissiot 
non v’é osservabile che la pretesa bravura, il certo delirio e la giocosa bizaria” 
(Morosini 7). 


5 Che il De Angelis 326, interpretando male il Corsetti, fa risalire erroneamente agli anni di Carlo 
VI, quindi posteriormente al 1711. Uno scenario dal titolo Un pazzo guarisce l’altro, ricavato dalla 
commedia di Gigli sara rappresentato alla corte viennese nel 1723 (il 10 gennaio): cfr. von Weilen 
101; Maddalena; Flaccomio 48-49; Bauer 77. 

Non compare, invece, né in Sonneck, né fra le opere del Fabbrini in Bisogni 342, a cui si 
rimanda per ogni altra notizia sul musicista. 
7 Sartori 361 ne indica un unico esemplare presso la Biblioteca Nacional di Lisbona. L’opuscolo, 
che ho letto in fotocopia, di otto pagine, niporta anche un Prologo per musica: Andromeda esposta 
al Mostro, liberata da Perseo, prelude al dramma (2-3). Erano previsti anche tre balli (Ballo di 
schiavi dopo il Prologo, Ballo di vittime nell’ ultima scena dell’atto secondo, Ballo di mascare in 
fine dell’ Opera), che non credo, perd, possano essere le Contrascene segnalate da De Angelis 
333. Rispetto al libretto questo programma presenta minime differenze: nel primo atto sono 
indicate diciassette scene invece di diciotto, probabilmente per l’unificazione delle ultime due; nel 
Ristretto della favola @ aggiunta una piccola frase esplicativa a proposito della parentela di Olinda 
con Atalipa (specificazione che @ soppressa, perd, nell’elenco dei personaggi); sono indicate 
espressamente, subito dopo l’elenco dei personaggi, le Mutaztoni di scena. 





eee 


Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane”’ : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 193 


oo 


Tre libretti (Ludovico Pio, L’amore fra gli impossibili nel 1687° e 1’Atalipa) e 
una commedia (Un pazzo guarisce l’altro nel 1698) in cui compare Don 
Chisciotte, tutti dello stesso autore, tutti concepiti e rappresentati nello stesso 
ambiente nell’arco di una decina d’anni — a Siena fra il Collegio Tolomei e 
l’ Accademia dei Rozzi — costituiscono indubbiamente un episodio consistente 
della fortuna del Quijote in Italia che andra senz’altro ulteriormente indagato. 

In questa sede si possono intanto mettere a fuoco le caratteristiche di questo 
Don Chisciotte senese, figura abbastanza marginale nei primi due libretti e con 
un ruolo notevole, invece, nella commedia e nell’Atalipa. Si tratta di una 
presenza molto marcata fisicamente, l’unica su cui si soffermino con una certa 
ampiezza le didascalie, nel caso degli altri personaggi piuttosto scarse e 
meramente di servizio. Qui — ma la suggestione proviene gia dall’ originale 
spagnolo —? le didascalie sottolineano sempre un’impressione visiva che induce 
un effetto comico: nel Ludovico Pio compare “‘vestito di ferro con lancia” (89), 
poi “incatenato in strana attitudine” (122) e “ferito e fasciato il capo” (133); 
nell’Amore fra gli impossibili si presenta “stivalato e con la lancia alla mano, 
leggendo un libro in atto di guardar ad ogni poco all’indice e poi voltar il libro 
stesso” (294), caratterizzato da una smorfia e da un handicap fisico, quando “‘vien 
in riso il mostaccio e zoppicando” (307), poi, sempre pit ridicolo, “abbrunato da 
capo a piede circondato di lumicini e lanternini” (353) e “con cerotti al capo” 
(363); in Un pazzo guarisce I'altro & prima “col capo fasciato, che entra cadendo 
in scena” (94), quindi travestito “con la gonnella, che fila” (108).!° 

A questa sottolineatura dell’aspetto fisico, corrisponde, nel gioco scenico, 
l’adeguamento del personaggio alle caratteristiche della maschera. In Un pazzo 
guarisce l’altro, che in alcuni episodi sembra quasi sceneggiare le pagine 
originali del Quijote (Flaccomio 42-46), infatti, Don Chisciotte si trova ad 
interagire con la vicenda dei personaggi seri di un dramma di corte 
spagnoleggiante, ma al tempo stesso dialoga comicamente, non soltanto con 
Sancho,!! ma con due personaggi che sono vere e proprie maschere,!? anche nel 


8 Musicati rispettivamente dal Fabbrini e da Carlo Campelli (Sonneck I 693 e 97). Del secondo, 
Sonneck (I 89) cita anche una rappresentazione ad Ancona, nel 1727, con musica di G. B. Mastini. 
9 Sulla teatralita del Quijote cfr. Valencia. 

10 th tutte manca il cavallo, probabilmente per esigenze sceniche, come avviene nel Don 
Giovanni in Sierra Morena di Zeno e Pariati, con musica di Conti. Effetti comici dalla presenza 
delle cavalcature (probabilmente di legno) sono invece ricavati del Pasquini (Don Chisciotte in 
corte della duchessa) e dal Lorenzi (Don Chisciotte). 

Su questo aspetto insiste particolarmente Flaccomio 45: “Sancho non é quel buffone grossolano, 
che troveremo, per esempio, nel melodramma dello Zeno-Pariati, ma conserva la maliziosa 
arguzia che ha nel romanzo spagnolo, massime nella seconda parte”. Né, credo, sarebbe 
azzardato vedervi alcuni tratti del buon senso bertoldesco. Sancho non compare, invece, nei 
libretti per musica di Gigli. 

2 Cfr. Binni 187. All’incontro di Don Chisciotte con le maschere (Truffaldino e Brighella 





194 Franco Vazzoler 


loro comportamento linguistico: il Dottore, che parla bolognese, e il soldato 
Galafrone,!3 che parla un buffo italiano germanizzato. Tutte costruite come gag 
dell’ arte, ad esempio, sono la scena della lettera dettata a Sancho (17; cfr. Quijote 
I 25) e quella in cui lo minaccia di licenziamento (III 10); e la pazzia di Don 
Chisciotte piuttosto che la cifra del personaggio “fuori chiave” cervantino, é 
ormai un dato topico, gia scontato persino per i suoi interlocutori.'4 

Questo Don Chisciotte-maschera (modellato sui Capitani della commedia 
erudita e di quella dell’arte)!> era venuto delineandosi nei libretti per musica, dove 
& svincolato dalla presenza di Sancho e ha tutta la responsibilita del ruolo di 
“buffo”. Cosi é un miles gloriosus ormai in disarmo, che si lamenta dei tempi 
inadatti all’esercizio della cavalleria!® ed é@ ridotto a lottare, pili che contro i 
nemici, contro la fame (Ludovico Pio 89-90 e 122), ch’egli arriva a vedere 
materializzata nel soldato Galafrone (Ludovico Pio 91) mentre, per consolarsi, 
cerca nel Furioso i versi in cui Ariosto parla dei digiuni di Orlando (Amore fra 
gli impossibili 249). Del tutto farsesco é, nell’Amore fra gli impossibili, forse 
con qualche ricordo scatologico del Tassoni, il suo spavento di fronte alle 
metamorfosi di una statua di cera rappresentante Adone, che cambia aspetto al 
calore di una torcia, assumendo quello di un demonio, per cui se la fa addosso, 





“immascherati stravagantemente da ombre’’) dedichera la scena d’apertura della parte seconda 
del Don Chisciotte in Venezia il Baretti. E interessante notare come nel gia citato scenario viennese 
il personaggio di Sancho (che solo in L’amore fra gli impossibili, fra i testi donchisciotteschi di 
Gigli, fa la sua comparsa) fosse trasformato nella maschera di Arlecchino Pagnotta (Maddalena 
4). 

13 Galafrone figura come personaggio anche nel Ludovico Pio. Sotto il titolo di D(on) Chisciotte 
della Mancia e Galafrone furono pubblicati nel 1723 a Roma degli intermezzi, per la musica di 
Girolamo Chiti; egualmente troviamo un D(on) Chisciotte della Mancia e Coriandolo speziale — 
anche in questo caso si tratta di intermezzi — sempre a Roma nel 1726, per la musica di Francesco 
Feo, che riprende il nome del personaggio presente — ma come “garzone di spezieria” — in 
Amore fra gli impossibili (cfr. Sartori 389, Mamczarz 400, Kunze 89). Non mi risulta che il nome 
di Don Galafrone, personaggio del Don Chisciotte di Lorenzi sia mai stato messo in relazione con 

uello di Galafrone in Gigli. 

4 Cfr. Berenice: “Sembra folle costui” (Ludovico Pio 117). Lo stesso Don Chisciotte considera 
“un error di questo secolo” il fatto che tutti lo considerino pazzo (Ludovico Pio 124). Il tema della 
pazzia é, d’altra parte, sviluppato ampiamente nella commedia Un pazzo guarisce I’altro, dove 
Don Chisciotte vuole impazzire di proposito, perché crede che questa sia la pit grande virti di un 
cavaliere errante. Ma anche i libretti per musica potrebbero essere indagati nella prospettiva della 
storia di un topos, quello della follia, comune tanto all’ opera seria quanto all’opera buffa. 

Si pensi alla lotta contro tafani e mosconi che gli pungono il naso in II, 11 e che, per aver 
succhiato “il sangue generoso di Don Chisciotte . . . diventeranno poi cosi valorosi e forti, che 
saranno il terrore di tutti i nasi del mondo” (96). Ma un’indagine su eventuali echi del personaggio 
di Cervantes nei vari capitani della Commedia dell’Arte del Sei-Settecento non é stata, mi pare, 
ancora tentata. 

6 Inevitabile, al riguardo, la citazione ariostesca della “antica virtute paladina”, quando, di fronte 
alla tomba di Carlo Magno rimpiange “la bella eta d’Orlando” scandendo a pil riprese con questa 
invocazione il proprio lamento (Ludovico Pio 133-134). 


Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 195 


credendo d’essere vittima di un avvelenamento;!’ cosi nella scena in cui vorrebbe 
sposare la speziale Coriandolo, travestito da donna, credendolo una amazzone 
(355-56); oppure ancora nella scena in cui si sfila gli stivali e Coriandolo é 
disgustato perché gli puzzano i piedi (298-99). 

Tipiche dei canovacci dell’arte sono anche la varieta e la liberta 
dell’ambientazione (Corinto in L’amore fra gl’impossibili) e il disinvolto 
anacronismo del Ludovico Pio (la Francia post-carolingia) che fa si che Don 
. Chisciotte si chieda stupito se “non é noto in Francia/ che vive Don Chisciotte 
| della Mancia” (99). 


* * * 


| Invenzione storico-geografica ed anacronismo si ritrovano entrambi 
nell’Azalipa.'® L’avventura di Don Chisciotte, infatti, @ ambientata in questo 
caso nel Pert precolombiano, in cui regna Atalipa (“monarca e uno degli Inghi 
del Peru,” come si legge nel Ristretto della favola premesso al testo), 
evidentemente Ataualpa, il cui nome é lievemente deformato rispetto alla stessa 
grafia cinquecentesca (Ataliba o Atabalipa).!? 





17 “Aimé, spiriti, incanti!/ Sta saldo il cor, ma la budella cedono./ Qualche pillola invisibile / Per la 
gola or or m’entro./ Della bile mia terribile / i1 demonio spaventato / m’ha ordinato / non so qual 
medicamento,/ che non scese, come sento,/ ma nelle brache mie precipito” (316-317). Il nesso con 
il personaggio di Cervantes era stato instaurato, come é noto (Croce 148), gia dallo stesso Tassoni, 
quando (La secchia rapita IX 72 3-8) fa discendere il Conte di Culagna da Don Chisciotte. 
Sebbene la fortuna teatrale della Secchia sia inferiore (e pill tarda) rispetto a quella del romanzo 
cervantino, non € una coincidenza casuale che il librettista e il musicista della prima riduzione 
melodrammatica del poema tassoniano (Giovan Gastone Boccherini e Antonio Salieri) siano anche 

li autori di un Don Chisciotte alle nozze di Gamazzo. 

8 AlV origine di questi anacronismi teatrali sono probabilmente collocabili proprio le avventure di 
un personaggio, il Capitano Spavento di Francesco Andreini, le cui Bravure, pubblicate nel 1607, 
ebbero immediatamente un grande successo e numerose edizioni (Andreini 429), per certi versi 
anticipatore di Don Chisciotte. Ma in parte si ritrovano anche in alcune opere musicali ispirate al 
Furioso, come II ritorno di Angelica dalle Indie del Tronsarelli, rappresentata a Roma nel 1628. 
Ben diversa, ovviamente, la prospettiva anacronistica in cui collochera le avventure di Don 
Chisciotte Orson Welles in un film iniziato nel 1955 e che non venne mai montato, ma di cui é 
rimasto tutto il materiale girato. Qui, semmai, il richiamo pid pertinente é a certi melodrammi in 
voga fra Sei e Settecento, di cui un noto esempio é la Lucrezia romana in Costantinopoli di Goldoni. 

Altra variante é Attabalippa, che si trova in due curiosi testi di Adriano Banchieri: La nobilita 
dell’asino di Attabalippa dal Perive i Trastulli della villa. 11 secondo (gia segnalato da Mele 232- 
233 e Flaccomio 19-20) contiene una descrizione interessante, in parte di fantasia, di Cuzco 
abitata da “scimmie, bertucce, monicchi e pappagalli di variati colori”, ma soprattuto presenta fra i 
suoi personaggi lo stesso re Attabalippa (qui sposato con la regina Iffigenia). Propone inoltre la 
traduzione di un episodio del Quijote (la conquista dell’elmo di Mambrino) sotto forma di racconto 
fatto dalla vecchia Nicolosa ad Asdrubale, ministro di Abbatalippa. Nel contesto di questa 
“curiosita dramatica” semipopolaresca, di derivazione bertoldesca (nel personaggio dello stolto 
fanciullo Tamburlino é facile notare le somiglianze con Bertoldino, cosi come Nicolosa ha non 
pochi tratti della Marcolfa, ecc.), colpisce l’accostamento di Don Chisciotte ad Attabalippa, ma 





196 Franco Vazzoler 


Elementi di fantasia, come I’accenno, nell’antefatto, ad una precedente 
prigionia “in Tavasco” (11-12)” degli antenati di Atalipa, il cui padre ha il nome 
di Arti (forse una ripresa della leggenda di Arti agli Antipodi),?! mantengono un 
tenuissimo legame con la realta storica, come forse avviene con la comica 
elezione di Don Chisciotte a re Inca (nel terz’atto), perché é creduto fratello di 
Atalipa, dove Gigli potrebbe aver sfruttato l’episodio della creazione di un re 
fantoccio, alla morte di Ataualpa, raccontata dalla Relazione sulla nuova 
Castiglia di Pedro Sanche de la Hoz, presente nelle Navigazioni del Ramusio 
(813), che nel Discorso sopra il discoprimento e conquista del Peri (667-71) 
aveva anche raccontato succintamente le lotte intestine e dinastiche del Peru 
precolombiano, cui si accenna (11-12) anche nel libretto. 

In ogni caso |’ambientazione americana é assimilata con grande disinvoltura 
al gusto per l’esotismo tipico del melodramma barocco, soprattutto nella zona 
seria ed eroica del libretto: la gelosia di Atalipa per la moglie Doriene, il cui 
amore il re mette alla prova, fingendosi morto per verificare se manterra la 
promessa di sacrificarsi sul rogo. 

Su questi elementi, infatti, é giocata tutta la grande scena del rogo funebre 
nel finale del second’ atto: Icobate da fuoco alla pira, attorniato dalle altre vittime 
pronte al sacrificio (56); Atalipa, fino a quel momento in incognito, perché ha 
fatto credere d’essere stato ucciso dai banditi, rivela la propria identita svelando 
V’inganno di cui é autore egli stesso; Doriene, a sua volta in incognito per 
potersi gettare nel rogo senza essere trattenuta da Icobate, cerca di fermarlo ed é 
ferita, prima di essere riconosciuta, dallo stesso Atalipa che, anzi, crede di averla 
uccisa (57). 

Gigli ricava, evidentemente, questi elementi dalle conoscenze etnografiche 
ormai molto diffuse alla fine del Seicento. Ma la selezione che egli opera fra 
queste conoscenze lo porta a privilegiare, rispetto al mito pil convenzionale, 
ormai topico, ma anche pili ricco di significato ideologico, del Perl come 
Eldorado, quegli aspetti (il sacrificio delle vedove alla morte del marito, il culto 
del Sole il cui idolo é espressamente indicato nella didascalia (I 1) come vistoso 
elemento scenografico) pil spettacolari e riconducibili alla forte impressione che 
le descrizioni dei sacrifici umani avevano suscitato, attraverso i racconti dei primi 
viag giatori europei in America e che avevano contribuito a diffondere l’immagine 
della “diversita” degli indiani in chiave di crudelta e barbarie.”” 


nient’altro consente di mettere in relazione 1’operetta del Banchieri con il libretto di Gigli. 

06 Tabasco, provincia del Messico orientale, citata anche in Ramusio 254. Anche il toponimo 
“Karka” (nome della localita di cui sarebbe principe Icobate, come é detto nell’elenco dei 
personaggi) si riferisce probabilmente alla provincia peruviana di Carcas (oggi la venezuelana 
Caracas), nominata anche in Ramusio 670. 

1 La curiosa comparsa di Anti fra gli antenati di Atclipa é forse ricollegabile (ma é difficile dire 
per quale via sia giunta a Gigli) al motivo leggendario della ricomparsa di Artt agli Antipodi di cui 
si sono occupati Pioletti e Moretti. 

Non é certo questo il caso di dar conto della vastissima letteratura storiografica su questo tema. 











Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 197 


In questa assimilazione dei fattori etnografici all’esotismo del melodramma 
barocco non trova posto un elemento importante, caratteristico dell’opera seria 
seicentesca: la figura del tiranno totalmente malvagio e crudele, ma neppure la 
sua successiva problematizzazione settecentesca.?? La crudelta di Atalipa non é 
un tratto da tiranno, ma un esasperato paradosso da innamorato, da cui sono 
assolutamente assenti motivazioni politiche; e le motivazioni politiche mancano 
anche alla ribellione di Icobate, mosso solo dall’affetto fraterno per la sorella e 
prontissimo, non appena scopre le buone intenzioni del sovrano, a riconoscere il 
proprio errore e quindi a pentirsi e sottomettersi: per cui nel lieto fine (Atalipa 
offre, a sua volta, in isposa ad Icobate la sorella ritrovata Olinda) risalteranno 
piuttosto le ragioni familiari che quelle della “clemenza” regia. 

La sfera del potere, cioé, non interessa Gigli, che pure riserva una particolare 
attenzione a quegli elementi (la gelosia eccessiva e l’eroica fedelta di Giacane) 
tipici di una drammaturgia ancora di stampo cicogniniano,” pit di quanto gli 
interessi entrare nel merito, nella forma di un qualche giudizio, della congruenza 
degli usi americani alla morale europea. 

Rispetto all’esotismo americano, dunque, la struttura del melodramma 
garantisce una sorta di zona ideologicamente “franca” che finisce per investire 
anche le possibili implicazioni politiche del tema della regalita e della tirannide. 

Diverso mi pare |’atteggiamento di Gigli nei confronti del nucleo comico, 
che ha il suo centro nella figura di Don Chisciotte. 


* * * 





Di particolare utilita mi sono stati: Gliozzi, Landucci, Meek (in particolare il secondo capitolo) e 
Todorov; per l’immagine del Pert nella cultura europea, Gerbi. 

Sulla figura del tiranno nel melodramma Sei-settecentesco cfr. Bellina 91-106 e Fabbri 199- 
205, ma anche le osservazioni negli studi metastasiani di Sala Di Felice, Giarrizzo e Joly. 

Ben evidente anche a livello di trama, con la doppia finzione della morte di entrambi e 1 
travestimenti che li rendono irriconoscibili l’uno all’altra. Ma decisamente ancora barocco é il 
linguaggio erotico di Atalipa e Doriene, segnato dal paradosso: Atalipa é geloso del sonno di 
Doriene, perché, dormendo, ella cessa momentaneamente di amarlo (“cessa / quel fido seno, 
intanto,/ dell’ officio d’amarmi e sente pace” 1), non chiede a Doriene se ]’ama, perché teme che 
lei, dicendo che 1’ama pid dei lumi del Cielo, bestemmi (20); e dall’insistito uso di metafore. Si 
veda, ad esempio, la prima aria di Atalipa (“Si fa notte a questo cuore,/ se dormite occhi fedeli./ 
Deh, scoprite il puro albore / di quei lumi, o vaghe ciglia,/ perché men si rassomiglia,/ chiuse voi, la 
terra a i Cieli” 1) o la prima di Doriene, tutta giocata sulla metafora mare/ pianto: “Sei mare onda 
vicina, 0 sei mio pianto?/ Se gl’é pianto, o sposo amato,/ é che tanto ho lagrimato:/ troppo vissi dopo 
te./ E se questo é mare, aimé,/ angusto é il mare a i disperati accanto” (31); 0, ancora, il 
preziosismo di quest’aria di Olinda: “Vedo baciarsi intanto/ l’onda del mar e ’! suol;/ e par che 
l’onda amica/ scusi col lido caro/ il bacio amaro e dica:/ bagna d’amaro pianto/ la cuna ancora il 
Sol” (27-28). Dove, comunque, il gioco delle metafore, a me pare (ma l’argomento andrebbe 
approfondito in altra sede), & costantemente razionalizzato in una disposizione dall’andamento 
quasi pili discorsivo che lirico. 

Alla topica del melodramma barocco (cfr. Fabbri 289-290 e 185) appartengono la scena del salto 
di Doriene dalla rupe (II 1) e quella della caccia (I 13). 


198 Franco Vazzoler 


Certamente Don Chisciotte mantiene alcuni dei tratti comici catteristici del 
cavaliere creato da Cervantes, come la citazione dei romanzi cavallereschi, 
l’insistente aspirazione alla fama e alla gloria, su cui Gigli opera una pit forte e 
decisa ironizzazione, citando il famoso verso di Achillini in funzione parodistica, 
mentre accresce l’effetto comico quando fa dire a Don Chisciotte di aver 
impegnato il “primo tomo/ della vita d’Orlando” per riscattare Olinda al mercato 
degli schiavi (10). Don Chisciotte, poi, porta con sé, come un trofeo, quasi fin 
dall’inizio, una pelle d’asino, ch’egli crede essere la pelle di un toro ferocissimo, 
da lui ucciso e trasformato per incantesimo, ma che egli é convinto riprendera 
prima o poi il suo aspetto originario.?° 

Non solo. A differenza degli altri due libretti (Ludovico Pio e L’amore fra 
gli impossibili), questa volta Don Chisciotte ha un peso importante anche nello 
sviluppo e nella conduzione dell’intreccio, intersecando anche la vicenda alta. 
Con i suoi discorsi sulla incostanza delle donne, infatti, provoca la gelosia di 
Atalipa,?° e, poi, viene implicato nella finta uccisione del re: prima é accusato di 
averlo assassinato; poi, scambiato per Belcrine (il fratello di Atalipa scomparso 
bambino) é portato in trionfo come re degli Inca; infine, contribuisce allo 
scioglimento della vicenda e all’agnizione finale, grazie alla catena d’oro che 
porta al collo, donatagli da Olinda (che in questo modo verra riconosciuta sorella 
di Atalipa) identica a quella del re e per il cui possesso Don Chisciotte era stato 
considerato il suo assassino. 

Al centro di questa vicenda — complicata, ma di cui Gigli tiene molto 
abilmente i fili, con l’attenzione del commediografo pit che con la corriva 
faciloneria del librettista seicentesco — spicca indubbiamente |’episodio 
dell’incoronazione di Don Chisciotte; episodio che, nell’economia del dramma, 
risulta simmetrico, anche nel significato rovesciato — quello tragico- 
spettacolare, questo comico-grottesco — alla grande scena del rogo funebre. 

La comicita di Don Chisciotte deriva qui dall’atteggiamento di convinta 


25 I 10: “D(on) Chisciotte coperto d’una pelle d’asino ed un orecchio in mano” (17). Egli crede 
che l’orecchio sia il como del toro: cid consentira l’equivoco buffonesco dell’ istituzione 
dell’“ordin del como tenero” nel terz’atto (77). Don Chisciotte é ferito da Atalipa, che, nel bosco, 
lo scambia per un cervo, suggerendo un altro equivoco comico, perché in questo modo Don 
Chisciotte credera che la pelle d’asino stia cambiando aspetto, assumendo uno pit nobile e il como 
riprenda la sua consistenza originaria (“che l’orecchie del mostro intenerite / ritomano a indurire 
a poco a poco” 19). Nel second’atto, mentre in prigione, sempre vestito di questa pelle, sta 
leagendo un libro, provochera i commenti ironici (“un asino che legge”) di Bagoa (51-52). 

2© Don Chisciotte, infatti, si lamenta con Atalipa (sempre tormentato dalla gelosia) perché Olinda 
I’ha lasciato in asso. II recitativo e l’aria di Don Chisciotte sviluppano il tema dell’incostanza 
femminile, che ha qui, credo, una delle prima attestazioni operistiche: “Femmina @ cosa mobil per 
natura:/ é detto petrarchesco,/ che non ha da mancar. Trotto asinesco / e feminil’amore assai non 
dura./ Lieve é il fumo, e pure il foco / pid leggiero @ ancor di quello./ Della fiamma il vento un 
poco / pit leggiero all’aure va./ Pit del vento che sara/ della femmina il cervello?/ Cosa che pit di 
lui lieve si muova,/ si cerca in Salamanca e non si trova” (24). 














Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 199 


autorita con cui assume il nuovo ruolo di monarca, non privo di un orgoglio un 
po’ sbruffone, come avviene quando rinvia le nozze con Doriene, cui vorrebbe 
spingerlo Icobate: pur lusingato dentro di sé (“Sta meglio a colei 1’Asso che il 
Re”), nasconde il proprio imbarazzo sotto una maschera guerresca: 


.. . Abbiamo 

bisogno di riposo. 

(cerco fuggir l’impegno) 

E voi sol ci parlate 

d’assedi e di squadroni: 

altrimenti diranno 

che séte il general de’ matrimoni. 
(72) 


Quindi pensa di istituire un ordine cavalleresco in ricordo di Atalipa (¢ ormai 
convinto d’essere suo fratello); poi, quando Atalipa, ancora in incognito, lo sfida, 
Si sottrae allo scontro nascondendo la mancanza di coraggio dietro alla propria 
nuova autorita (“A nostra maesta/ insidie? Ah, buon per voi/ che non siete par 
miei, da ieri in qua”) e facendo ricorso alle guardie (76-79). E a conclusione del 
suo breve “giorno di regno” (procuratosi del tutto involontariamente, ma 
serissimamente vissuto fino in fondo), riapparso Atalipa, scopertasi Olinda per 
Neochille, sorella dei re, e data in isposa a Icobate, toltigli la corona e il trono, 
non gli resta che la comicita di una sentenza stoica (“Indiani farinelli! / E noi 
dobbiam tornare / ad esser come prima / numero singolare! / Sei breve o fasto 
umano!”) e l’eterno mimare I’illusione di un riscatto, rivolgendosi ancora un 
volta alla pelle d’asino: “. . . ma tanto si faria, s’io non avessi / tal capitale in 
mano” (90). 


% 


Questa incoronazione e detronizzazione carnevalesca di Don Chisciotte trae un 
pit forte significato comico da un altro elemento messo in evidenza da Gigli 
all’inizio del dramma, Alla sua prima apparizione, infatti, Don Chisciotte aveva 
spiegato il motivo della propria presenza in America: 


Per altro io non lasciai 

d’Europa le venture 

che per portare umanita e creanza 

a queste abbandonate creature 

e avvezzarle a mangiar pecore e buoi 
appunto come noi. 


(8) 


Nel finale viene cosi ironizzato il tema della civilizzazione dell’ America, tema 


200 Franco Vazzoler 


caratteristico dell’epopea colombiana per tutto il Seicento,”’ facendo coincidere, 
per qualche momento, |’immagine di Colombo con quella del cavaliere prima 
autoilluso e poi deluso, miles gloriosus autoinvestitosi di questa missione.”* 

Il tema eroico della missione civilizzatrice ha il suo risvolto comico nella 
paura di Don Chisciotte d’essere divorato dalle popolazioni americane ch’egli 
crede selvagge e antropofaghe. In questo modo Don Chisciotte diviene uno dei 
personaggi piu interessanti usciti dalla penna del Gigli e anche il pid divertente e 
insolito dei vari Don Chisciotte del teatro musicale sei-settecentesco. 

Don Chisciotte approda (I 5), naufrago, su una spiaggia del Peru, 
accompagnato da Olinda in abito maschile (la schiava comprata a Cuba 
impegnando il primo tomo della storia di Orlando e che — come abbiamo visto 
si scoprira essere Neochille sorella di Atalipa), la quale pero lo abbandona 
(“Si, si voglio fuggir, che peggior sorte / incontrar non poss’io”) alla prima 
occasione. 

La grande entrata comica (dal mare, dove lo si vede “nuotare con un libro da 
una e con la spada dall’altra mano”, quindi sulla spiaggia dove é trascinato da 
Olinda e sta “mezzo tramortito in terra... stanco . . . con cosciali di ferro e 
stivali”) prepara il successivo sviluppo del personaggio, che sibito s’interroga 
“se Caio Giulio Cesare asciugasse / prima la sua camicia o il Commentario” (6- 
7), e infine domanda agli astri le ragioni del proprio tremare: 





Astri voi, che rimirate 

d’ogni interno i moti veri, 

se sapete oggi il perché 

tremo qui da capo a pil, 

deh vogliate 

fede far da Cavalieri 

all’etade presente e alla futura 

che questa é tramontana e non paura. 


(7) 


In realta, il motivo di questa paura é presto evidente, non appena Olinda nomina 


27 Che ha suscitato, soprattutto negli ultimi tempi, una ricca serie di interventi. Basti ricordare, 
nell’ambito della letteratura e del teatro, dopo il classico libro del Carboni, pubblicato ormai un 
secolo fa, le rassegne — di carattere divulgativo, ma contenenti una ricca bibliografia — di Dario 
G. Martini, 1 recenti lavori di Mario Damonte e, soprattutto, di Marzio Pieri. Non inutile, credo, sia 
segnalare in questa occasione la “mascherata” che si svolse a Siena, per iniziativa 
dell’ Accademia dei Rozzi, nel 1703, segnalata da Liberati 386. 

Sotteso a questo problema c’é, ovviamente, il tema del giudizio dato da Cervantes sulla 
“conquista” spagnola dell’America (su cui cfr. Campo) e del significato che poteva avere il 
Quiote nella Spagna seicentesca rispetto ad essa, sulla scorta, magari, di una osservazione del De 
Lollis — “Il Cervantes scriveva quando la scoperta e la colonizzazione dell’America, tutto un 
nuovo mondo, pareva avessero dovuto fiaccare il fascino dell’ignoto e del lontano” (160)— che 
potrebbe adattarsi anche all’interpretazione dell’esotismo del Gigli. 





| 


Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 201 


il cibo (Deh, ti piaccia, Signor, ch’io m’incamini / per procacciarti omai 
qualche sollievo / e di cibo e di spoglia / a gli alberi vicini”), dalla risposta di 
Don Chisciotte: 


Mangiare in queste parti! I] Ciel non voglia, 
semplicetta, e non sai 

che si servon le genti americane 

degli uomini per pane? 


Lo sviluppo comico della paura per le abitudini antropofaghe degli americani 
comincia cosi a prendere corpo: se, ferito a una mano, pensa che la necessita di 
curarla ritardera la civilizzazione della “gente americana” che “mangiara . . . / 
quattro giorni di pit’ la gente umana”, nei confronti di Atalipa € sospettoso e 
guardingo finché non si accorge che “non ha cera costui di mangiar l’uomo” (19). 

In effetti la comicita del personaggio e delle situazioni dipendono in gran 
parte dalle opportunita offerte dalle singole occasioni. Riconducibile ad uno dei 
tratti tipici di Don Chisciotte é l’andare a cercare, nel libro che porta sempre con 
sé, se esistano ricette in cui siano indicati “che ingredienti e quanti / adoprar si 
sogliono / per cucinare i cavalieri erranti” (53). Ma soprattutto quando il pensiero 
dell’ antropofagia, diventato un’idea fissa, si combina con |’immaginazione 
culinaria del personaggio: quando trova Atalipa tramortito a terra, prima crede che 
si tratti di una carogna “per frollar lasciata all’aria”, quindi, avendo riconosciuto 
in lui il personaggio innamorato incontrato nelle scene precedenti, si lascia 
andare ad una boutade (‘“‘e miracol mi sembra / che non |’abbian mangiato / 
avanti che morisse, / perch’era cotto ancor mentre che visse”) che trae effetto 
proprio dal doppio senso cotto / cotto d’amore. Addirittura — sviluppando questo 
aspetto verso esiti ancor pill grotteschi — Gigli immagina che Don Chisciotte si 
faccia tentare lui stesso, quando non riesce a trovare nessuna preda animale di cui 
nutrirsi, da fantasie antropofaghe (‘‘e se qui veramente / non si trova altro modo / 
di mangiar, che mangiar la cotta gente, / alla fin converra ch’io tuffi un dito / 
nell’intingolo almen, o beva il brodo”) dove I’effetto comico risulta dal tentativo 
di attenuare l’audacia del proprio pensiero limitandosi al “brodo” o all’“intingolo” 
in cui immergere solo “un dito”: che sono immagini anche quotidiane e 
familiari. 

Ma Veffetto comico di maggior peso scenico é nella scena ottava del 
terz’atto (65-67), quando Don Chisciotte, prigioniero, crede che Giacane e 
Icobate, venuti ad accertare la sua identita, siano due addetti alle cucine, “due 
deputati / sopra la grascia umana, / per riveder mandati / la carne sua come sia 
grassa e sana” (66). Cosi, travisando le loro parole, interpreta l’aggettivo “salsa” 
(salata) attribuito ad onda, per il sostantivo gastronomico: 


Salsa! No, quest’é gente di cucina 
che, avend’io sempre i boschi passeggiato, 
la salsa ha preparato 





202 Franco Vazzoler 
come a tutta la carne selvaggina. 


E il gioco comico continua quando Don Chisciotte, ricordando il lungo periodo 
passato in mare dopo il naufragio da — in un “a parte” — consigli per come 
essere cucinato: 


Or, cuoco mio, per tua riputazione 
metti pur poco sal nella pignatta, 
che gran tempo in fusione 

son stato entro nel mare. 


E tutto il dialogo fra Icobate e Giacane che credono di identificare in lui Belcrine, 
il fratello perduto di Atalipa, moltiplica gli equivoci ed accresce l’ossessione di 
Don Chisciotte: 


Giacane 
D. Chisciotte 


Icobate 
D. Chisciotte 


Icobate 


D. Chisciotte 


Nel mare! 

Si nel mar ch’era sconvolto 

oggi dallo scirocco. 

Nel mare! Oh Dio, che sento! 

Mi avean servato per medicamento 
e volevan sicuro il brodo sciocco. 
Dunque te la procella 

porto su queste arene? 

Appunto; e dalla brage 

saltai nella padella. 


Anche quando Icobate e Giacane dimostrano la loro gioia, Don Chisciotte 
continua nell’equivoco di pensare che la loro soddisfazione sia dovuta al fatto che 
lo considerano un cibo prelibato: 


Giacane 
Icobate 
D. Chisciotte 
Icobate 
D. Chisciotte 
Giacane 


D. Chisciotte 


Ah caro! 

Ah sospirato! 

Boccon volete dire. 

Tu ci consolerai. 

Lo stomaco affamato 

Le nobili tue membra ed innocenti 
con queste labbra... 

Tu ci romperai 

a tuo dispetto i denti. 


L’equivoco continua quando Icobate (“Indugiar piii non posso”) si avvicina per 
abbracciarlo: “E volete mangiarmi in ogni modo / crudo e co’ panni addosso? . . 
. Senza un po’ d’olio almeno / certo vi fard nodo”; poi, mentre Icobate e Giacane 
lo portano via (“Tu sarai d’Icobate”, “Tu sarai di Giacane”) con dimostrazioni 
d’affetto: “Vi possa fare il pro che meritate, / 0 golacce di cane.” 


| Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 203 


Basata sul meccanismo comico tradizionale dell’equivoco, del 
fraintendimento (anche linguistico, come nei casi di “salsa” e “cotto”), questa 
scena sembra riproporre una situazione tipica dei canovacci della Commedia 
dell’ Arte; ma in tutta la commedia il personaggio di Don Chisciotte, in virti del 
| carattere maniacale della sua ossessione (che non esaurisce, comunque, le risorse 
| sceniche del personaggio: si pensi agli elementi pit tradizionali che lo 
caratterizzano, come le citazioni dei libri di cavalleria, la polemica 
i antifemminile, ma anche quelli pit originali, come la pelle d’asino), tende a 
| divenire dominante all’interno della struttura del dramma, ridefinendo |’ equilibrio 
delle parti comiche. 

Se l’altro personaggio comico, infatti, il nano Bagoa (servitore di Atalipa e 
complice della sua finzione), anche in virti della sua deformazione fisica, é un 
tipo comico del tutto tradizionale all’interno delle convenzioni del melodramma 
barocco, un Don Chisciotte cosi ricco di risvolti, ognuno con un suo peso 
drammaturgico, e al tempo stesso definito dalla nota dominante della paura 
d’essere mangiato, rappresenta una significativa innovazione in direzione 
dell’opera buffa. 

Si puo notare, infatti, come il personaggio di Don Chisciotte, inizialmente 
poco piu di una maschera, abbia acquistato uno spessore che tende verso quella 
che — con le parole di Gallarati (149) — si puo definire “la sublimazione 
grottesca del comico”, attraverso |’accentuazione caricaturale (qui ancora legata ad 
una dimensione carnevalesca) e l’importanza assunta all’interno della 
articolazione drammaturgica. 

Articolazione drammaturgica valutabile, nella morfologia del libretto, anche 
in termini musicali, sebbene solo in via largamente ipotetica, nulla sapendo, 
infatti, della musica del Fabrini e, ad esempio, dei timbri delle voci.”? II nesso 
comicita-musica é perOd avvertibile nello spazio riservato alle ariette che 
dovevano essere cantata da Don Chisciotte, sia quelle inserite nel recitativo, sia 
quella, comicamente scatologica, con cui Don Chisciotte constata gli effetti della 
propria paura all’apparire di Atalipa vestito di bianco ch’egli crede un fantasma: 





Scacciar la paura 
vorrei ma non posso. 
E 1’alma arrivata, 

e giusta ]’usata 

sua propria natura 

il corpo m’ha mosso; 
(60) 


o quella collegata all’azione scenica, con cui Don Chisciotte si disimpegna dalle 


29 Che non sono indicate né nel libretto senese, né nel programma milanese. Sia nell’opera di 
Pariati e Zeno musicata da Conti (che fu cantata da Francesco Borosini), sia in quella di Lorenzi 
musicata da Paisiello, comunque, il ruolo di Don Chisciotte é quello di un tenore “di carattere”. 





204 Franco Vazzoler 


nozze con Doriene: 


Mi dichiaro Signora cognata 

che non voglio facciate all’amor. 
Se minchion fu mio fratello, 
informato del bordello, 

almen’io della casata 


mantener bramo 1’onor; 
(72) 


sia quando hanno una maggiore autonomia e sono provviste del “da capo”, come 
l’arietta Se padella o pur spiedone (53), posta all’uscita del personaggio e prima 
di un cambiamento di scena: 


Siccome io studierei 

(caso che qui mi vogliano 
arrostito o stufato i Fati miei) 
che ingredienti e quanti 
adoperar si sogliano 

per cucinare i cavalieri erranti. 


Se padella o pur spiedone 
dara morte al mio valore, 
serva almeno di boccone 
questa carne delicata 

o a una femina infantata 
o a un indian predicatore 
se 


a : 


Siamo, dunque, perfettamente all’interno della evoluzione della morfologia del 
libretto sei-settecentesco (pur con tutte le ambiguitaé dovute al carattere 
composito del genere) da una forma piu tipicamente barocca (in cui le parti pid 
cantabili si sviluppano ancora all’interno del recitativo) ai nuovi equilibri che 
verranno prima cercati da Zeno e poi compiutamente realizzati da Metastasio.°° 


30 Per tutti i personaggi, comunque, non soltanto per Don Chisciotte, Gigli predispone sia arie col 
“da capo” (in uscita, ma anche in entrata e nel mezzo del recitativo), sia sezioni a struttura 
metrica pit chiusa all’interno del recitativo, secondo una prassi consolidata nell’opera barocca. 
Tutta questa casistica @ presente in un’unica scena, II 9, ad un solo protagonista (Icobate), 
composta da una sezione introduttiva di recitativo in versi sciolti, una sezione di quattro ottonari, di 
cui due rimati, un’altra sezione di recitativo in settenari ed endecasillabi variamente rimati e, 
infine, un’aria di sette senari (abcdcdb) in uscita, prima del cambiamento di scena. Ma in generale 
questi elementi meriterebbero una piii approfondita e specifica analisi — sulla scorta dei recenti 
contributi di Fabbri Secolo 217-238 e Istituzioni 180-192 e Gallarati — che, credo, 


documenterebbero nell’ Afalipa un’esigenza razionalizzatrice della struttura drammatica, per certi 





Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 205 


* A 


Dentro questa evoluzione ben ci sta proprio il carattere comico di Don 
Chisciotte, che all’interno dell’Atalipa sembra conquistarsi uno spazio 
drammaturgico che diverra poi tipico dell’ opera buffa del Settecento (anche se di 
quella manca ancora |’elemento piii caratteristico, il concertato),>! quando si 
realizzera completamente quel riequilibrio dei ruoli, che portera in secondo piano 
i personaggi della vicenda amorosa (qui ancora collegata al tema politico ed alla 
dimensione eroica) e privilegera i ““caratteri” comici in un contesto realistico e 
quotidiano. 

Un’evoluzione di cui, nell’ambito degli intermezzi, una tappa importante é 
segnata proprio da Gigli con La Dirindina o Il Maestro di Cappella, e che — pud 
essere utile ricordarlo in questa occasione — sara consacrata da un personaggio, il 
Don Tammaro del Socrate immaginario di Lorenzi e Galiani, per la musica di 
Paisiello, la cui discendenza (“imitation”) da Don Chisciotte ¢ denunciata dallo 
stesso Galiani*? e rinforzata dal fatto che l’altro coautore del libretto, il Lorenzi, 





versi ancora legata alla convenzione barocca, ma indubbiamente consapevole della dimensione 
drammaturgica della musica. Consapevolezza che era riconosciuta a Gigli, implicitamente, dallo 
Zeno, quando, a proposito della Griselda musicata da Albinoni, lodava “i ridicoli che con tanta 
saviezza .. . viha aggiunti” (lettera a A. F. Marmi del 24 febbraio 1702, in Zeno I 66). 

31 Concertati che saranno, invece, ampiamente sviluppati nei libretti di Zeno e Pariati e di Lorenzi 
(Kunze, Russo). In una pid approfondita analisi del rapporto fra strutture drammatiche e strutture 
musicali nell’Atalipa (e degli altri drammi per musica di Gigli) si dovra, pero, tenere particolare 
conto dei dialoghi, che in non pochi casi (ad esempio quello fra Doriene e Atalipa in I 8-15) 
sembrano prefigurare il duetto, anticipando — il discorso purtroppo deve prescindere, come gia 
detto, dalla musica — certe soluzioni della Dirindina. 

32 Tn una lettera all’amica M.me D’Epinay, ma anche nella premessa (L’autore) al libretto: 
“Riusci all’incomparabile Michel de Cervantes dare nel suo immortal D. Chisiotto un modello della 
pit delicata ed ingegnosa lepidezza. . . . Ho cercato in esso trarre la materia del ndicolo da un 
soggetto quasi somigliante, cioé dal supporre un uomo semplice, che dalla cognizione confusa e 
volgare delle vite de’ Filosofi antichi (come quegli dalle vite de’ cavalieri erranti) abbia stravolto il 
cervello, sino al punto di credere di poter ristorare 1’antica filosofia” (Galiani 7 e 63). E questa 
sembra essere la chiave di lettura settecentesca del romanzo cervantino, come conferma il Chiari 
nella Filosofessa italiana (parte quinta, articolo primo): “Ripensando che l’ingegnoso romanzo del 
Don Chisciotte era una critica arguta, ma misteriosa, di tutti gli eroi romanzeschi, non meno che di 
tutti gli altri libri di questo genere, mi venne in idea di scrivere le mie avventure sullo stesso 
modello. Una femmina, o compagna, o sorella di Don Chisciotte, che contraffacesse ne’ suoi 
avvenimenti quanto si leggeva accaduto ad altre donne, di cui abbiamo le memonie scritte da loro 
medesime, mi pareva soggetto assai buono e ridicolo per un libro da passatempo, in cui registrando 
le avventure mie, potevo modestamente censurare le altrui” (cfr. Getrevi 149). 

Di “carattere”, a proposito di canovacci imperniati sulla figura di Don Chisciotte, ch’egli vide 
rappresentati al teatro di San Samuele nel 1734, parla anche il Goldoni nella prefazione al tomo 
XIII dell’edizione Pasquali (Opere I 717), pur dandone un giudizio fortemente negativo 
(“Correvano altresi su quelle scene d’allora, alcune Commedie, dette di caratter, come... il Don 
Chisciotte . . .; ma i caratteri erano falsi, fuor di natura, e sagrificati al ridicolo grossolano, senza 


206 Franco Vazzoler 


si era cimentato anch’egli direttamente con il personaggio di Cervantes (nel Don 
Chisciotte, scritto anch’esso per Paisiello).*4 

Cid che contribuisce a definire il Don Chisciotte dell’Atalipa come un 
personaggio sulla strada di diventare un “carattere” @ proprio la comicita del suo 
tratto piu originale, cioé quella paura degli “americani” selvaggi e antropofagi 
(inquadrata nel contesto esotico della vicenda serio-tragica dei personaggi regali) 
che rappresenta il filo conduttore dell’intera vicenda comica del libretto. 

Credo che nella paura di Don Chisciotte per gli antropofagi si possa vedere 
non soltanto un evidentissimo tratto buffonesco, ma anche una, seppur lieve, 
ironizzazione dei pregiudizi europei nei confronti dei “selvaggi”, suggerendo 
l’immagine di un Don Chisciotte avido lettore non soltanto dei poemi 
cavallereschi, ma anche delle numerosissime narrazioni di viaggi e storie 
dell’ America latina. 

In questo modo I’atteggiamento di Gigli verso |’esotismo americano, privo 
di qualsiasi idealizzazione, ma anche di quella complessita problematica che 
caratterizzera sessant’anni dopo La bella selvaggia di Goldoni,** non é, 
comunque, banale. Se tende, infatti, nella vicenda eroica “alta”, ad assimilare la 
crudelta del sacrificio umano ai moduli europei del melodramma barocco, nella 
vicenda comica “bassa”, invece, non punta sulla rappresentazione caricaturale 
degli usi dei selvaggi, ma sulla ridicolizzazione delle opinioni superstiziose e 
bigotte dei suoi contemporanei.*> L’immagine del “selvaggio”, nell’ Atalipa, 
infatti non pretende in alcun modo I’esibizione dei tratti etnografici, ma rimane 
un cliché su cui scherzare, facendo ampio ricorso alla citazione degli usi culinari 
europei, quando Don Chisciotte assimila il corpo di Atalipa alla selvaggina 
messa a frollare, quando cita “‘salse”, “intingoli” e “brodi”, “arrosti” e “stufati”, 

“padelle”, “spiedoni” e “pignatte” (e comportando anche una introduzione del 





condotta, senza verita e senza ragione’”’). 
La citazione del Socrate immaginario a proposito dei libretti chisciotteschi del Settecento ha ampio 
spazio in Flaccomio 68-84 ed @ accennata anche da Kunze 91. Il Kunze, pur ponendo i libretti 
chisciotteschi (soprattutto quelli di Pariati, Pasquini e Lorenzi) in relazione con 1’origine dell’ opera 
buffa, non accenna a quelli del Gigli. La sua valutazione sull’efficacia drammatico-musicale di 
questo soggetto €, comunque, molto limitativa. Secondo Kunze, infatti, le avventure di Don 
Chisciotte nei libretti da lui presi in esame non riescono ad armonizzarsi né con le forme 
dell’opera seria, né con quelle dell’opera buffa (90). Proprio in questa prospettiva, invece, 
secondo me, risalta la particolare originalita del tentativo condotto da Gigli con 1’ Atalipa. 

Sul Don Chisciotte di Lorenzi, cfr. ora Russo, cui si rimanda per la bibliografia precedente. 

Sull’esotismo americano della Bella selvaggia cfr. Del Beccaro 86-88 e Regazzoni. Per una 
lettura “ideologica” di questo libretto goldoniano cfr. anche l’approfondita analisi di Caratozzolo. 
Com’é noto, invece, la Peruviana di Goldoni é ambientata non in America, ma in Francia. 
35 i difficile dire a quali fonti possa essersi rifatto Gigli. A mero titolo di riferimento si possono qui 
ricordare le pagine della Historia da Provincia Sancta Cruz (Lisbona 1576) di Pero Magalhaens de 
Gandavo, antologizzate in Gliozzi 44-45, o quelle dell’Histoire d'un voyage fait en terre du Brésil 
di J. de Léry (Ginevra 1580), ricche anche di particolari “culinari” sul modo dei cannibali di 
trattare la carne umana, pubblicate in Bogliolo Bruna-Lehmann 224. Frequenti riferimenti anche in 
Todorov. 


Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 207 


lessico quotidiano nella lingua del melodramma, abbastanza originale).*° 

Al tempo stesso, perd, il buffonesco e lo scherzoso, pur togliendo 
problematicita al tema dell’“altro”, non vanno a colpire il selvaggio (che non é 
neppure rappresentato sulla scena e che finisce cosi per essere un mero 
“fantasma” della immaginazione maniacale di Don Chisciotte), ma il soggetto 
stesso che genera quella mania, cioé appunto Don Chisciotte. Per questa via il 
buffonesco si predispone ad entrare nella dimensione della satira, pur senza 
attingere ancora completamente alla complessita del “carattere”, anticipando cosi, 
anche per la polemica (seppur bonaria) nei confronti delle idee correnti, 
apparentabile in qualche modo ad una problematica libertina,*’ una delle 
caratteristiche fondamentali del teatro “maggiore” del Gigli. 


Universita degli Studi di Genova 


Opere citate 


Altieri Biagi M. L., La lingua in scena, Bologna, Zanichelli, 1980. 

Andreini F., Le bravure di Capitano Spavento, ac. di R. Tessari, Pisa, Giardini, 1987. 

Banchieri A. (Camillo Scaligeri della Fratta), La nobilta dell’ asino di Attabalippa del 
Peru, Venezia, Barezzi, 1599. 

, Trastulli della villa, Bologna, Mascheroni, 1617. 

Baretti G., Scritti teatrali, a c. di F. Fido, Ravenna, Longo, 1973. 

Bauer A., Opern und Operetten in Wien. Verzeichnis ihrer Erstauffiihrungen in der Zeit 
von 1629 zur Gegenwart, Graz-K6ln, Béhlaus, 1955. 

Bellina A. L., L’ingegnosa congiunzione. “Melos” e immagine nella “favola” per 
musica, Firenze, Olschki, 1984. 

Binni W., L’Arcadia e Metastasio, Firenze, Sansoni, 1963. 

Bisogni F., Fabbrini, Giuseppe, in The New Grove Dictionary cf Music and 
Musicians, ac. di S. Sadie, London, Macmillan, 1980, vol. VI, 341-42. 

Bogliolo Bruna G.-Lehmann A., Amazzoni o cannibali, vergini o madri, sante o 


36 Manca un’analisi della lingua del Gigli librettista. Punto di partenza insostituibile per future 
indagini rimane Altieri-Biagi. 

Sui risvolti libertini della problematica sul “selvaggio” @ molto utile Landucci. Hanno posto 
particolare attenzione a questo aspetto dell’ideologia del Gigli, sia Binni, sia Manciotti, il quale ha 
dedicato (20-22) alcune utili osservazioni all’esotismo (le Amazzoni cinesi a Roma) del 
Gazzettino, in cui é possibile cogliere un’anticipazione delle Lettres persanes di Montesquieu. Ma 
se Gigli si limita qui a proporre un cliché molto convenzionale, dai risvolti esclusivamente comici, 
del selvaggio cannibale, tuttavia potrebbe essere non inutile ricordare come, nello stesso momento 
(1681), in Francia, il cattolico Bossuet del Discours sur l'histoire universelle si chieda ancora se, 
“sans les sauvages” (assimilati agli “aveugles” ed agli “infidéles” che continuano ad esistere 
“dans le sein méme du christianisme”), gli uomini dabbene e credenti potrebbero misurare “la 
corruption profonde de notre nature” e “l’abime d’oi Jésus-Christ nous a tirés” (944-945). 


208 Franco Vazzoler 


prostitute. Donne amerindie e alterita nelle “relazioni” di alcuni viaggiatori 
francesi (secoli XVI-XVIII), “Columbeis” 3 (1988), 215-64. 

Bossuet J.-B., Oeuvres, ac. di B. Velat e Y. Champailler, Bibliothéque de la Pléiade, 
Paris, Gallimard, 1961. 

Campo J., Presencia de America en la obra de Cervantes, “Revista de Indias” 8 (1947), 
371-404. 

Caratozzolo V., Le smanie del colonialismo: “La bella selvaggia” (1758) di Carlo 
Goldoni, “L’immagine riflessa” n.s. 1 (1992), in corso di stampa. 

Carboni P., Cristoforo Colombo nel teatro, Milano, Treves, 1892. 

Corsetti F. (Oresbio Ageio), La vita di Gerolamo Gigli, detto fra gli Arcadi Amaranto 
Sciaditico, Firenze, s.n.t., 1746. 

Cervantes M., Obras completas, par A. Valbruna Prat, Madrid, Aguilar, 197510. 

Croce B., Saggi sulla letteratura italiana del Seicento, Bari, Laterza, 1911. 

Damonte M., Cristoforo Colombo nella narrativa, Genova, Ecig, 1991. 

, L’America e Cristoforo Colombo nell’ opera di Francisco de Quevedo y 
Villegas, “Columbeis” 2 (1987), 307-23. 

De Angelis L., Biografia degli scrittori sanesi, Siena, Rossi, 1824 (ristampa 
anastatica, Bologna, Forni, 1976). 

De Lollis C., Cervantes reazionario e altri scritti di ispanistica, Firenze, Sansoni, 
1943. 

Del Beccaro F., L’esperienza “esotica” del Goldoni, “Studi goldoniani” 5 (1979), 62- 
101, 

Diego G., Cervantes y la musica, “Anales cervantinos” 1 (1951), 5-40. 

Espinos V., Las realizaciones musicales del “Quijote”. Ensajo biografico-critico, 
“Revista de la Biblioteca, Archivio y Museo del Ayuntamiento de Madrid” 10 
(1933), 34-62. 

Fabbri P., /stituti metrici e formali, in Storia dell’ opera italiana, ac. di L. Bianconi e 
G. Pestelli, Torino, EDT/Musica, 1988, vol. VI 165-233. 

, Il secolo cantante. Per una storia del libretto d’ opera nel Seicento, Bologna, 
Il Mulino, 1990. 

Ferroni G., L’ opera in commedia: una immagine del melodramma nella cultura veneta 
del Settecento, in Venezia e il melodramma nel Settecento, ac. di M. T. Muraro, 
Firenze,1978, vol. I 63-78. 

Fido F., /1 paradiso dei buoni compagni. Capitoli di storia letteraria veneta, Padova, 
Antenore, 1988. 

Flaccomio R., La fortuna del “Don Quijote” in Italia nei secoli XVII e XVIII e il “Don 
Chisciotte”  diG. Meli, Palermo, Ando, 1928. 

Fucilla J. G., /talian cervantiana, “Hispanic Review", 2 (1934), 235-240. 

Gallarati P., Musica e maschera. Il libretto italiano del Settecento, Torino, 
EDT/Musica, 1984. 

Galiani F., Socrate immaginario, ac. di M. Rago, Roma, Editori Riuniti, 1986. 

Gerbi A., [I mito del Peru, Milano, Angeli, 1988. 

Getrevi P., Labbra barocche. Il libretto d'’opera da Busenello a Goldoni, Verona, 
Essedue, 1987. 

Giarrizzo G., L’ideologia di Metastasio fra cartesianesimo e illuminismo, in 
Metastasio (Atti del Convegno), Roma, Accademia del Lincei, 1985, 43-77. 

Gigli G., Amore fra gl’impossibili, in Poesie drammatiche, Venezia, Rossetti, 1708, 








Don Chisciotte e le “genti americane” : I’ Atalipa di G. Gigli 209 


vol. I, 281-364. 

[ ], L’Atalipa, Siena, Fantini e Gatti, s.d. 

[ |, L’Atalipa [scenario], Milano, Ramellati, [1701]. 

, Ludovico Pio, in Poesie drammatiche, Venezia, Rossetti, 1708, vol. I, 79- 
154. 
, Un pazzo guarisce l'altro, Siena, Bonetti, 1704. 

Gliozzi G. (a c. di), La scoperta dei selvaggi. Antropologia e colonialismo da 
Colombo a Diderot, Milano, Principato, 1971. 

Goldoni C., Tutte le opere, ac. di G. Ortolani, vol. 1, Milano 19594. 

Gronda G., La carriera di un librettista: Piero Pariati da Reggio di Lombardia, 
Bologna, Il mulino, 1990. 

Kunze S., Die Entstehung eines Buffo-Librettos. Don Quijote-Bearbeitungen, 
“Deutsches Jahrbuch der Musikwissenschaft”, 12 (1967), 75-95. 

Joly J., Dagli Elisi all’ Inferno, Firenze, La Nuova Italia, 1990. 

Jonard N., Giuseppe Baretti (1719-1789) l'homme et l'oeuvre, Clermond-Ferrand, 
Publications de la Faculté de Lettres, 1979. 

Landucci S., J filosofi e i selvaggi (1580-1780), Bari, Laterza, 1972. 

Liberati A., L’Accademia dei Rozzi, “Bullettino senese di storia patria” ns 7 (1936) 
383-91. 

Lorenzi G.B., Opere teatrali, Napoli, Fiauto, 1806-1820. 

Maddalena E., Uno scenario inedito, “Sitzungberichte der Kais. Akademie der 
Wissenschaften in Wien. Philosophisch-historische Klasse” 143 (1901), 1-22. 

Mamczarz I., Les intermédes comiques italiens au XVIII€™® siécle en France et en 
Italie, Paris, CNRS, 1972. 

Manciotti M., Introduzione a G. Gigli, Don Pilone, La sorellina, Il Gorgoleo, 
Milano, Silva, 1963. 

Mangini N., / teatri di Venezia, Milano, Mursia, 1974. 

Martini D.G., Cristoforo Colombo, l’America e il teatro, Genova, Ecig, 1988. 

Meek R. L., Social science and the Ignoble Savage, Cambridge, Cambridge 
University Press, 1976 (trad. it., [1 cattivo selvaggio, Milano, Il Saggiatore, 
1981). 

Mele E., Mas sobre la fortuna de Cervantes en Italia e el siglo XVII, “Revista de 
filologia espafiola”, 6 (1919), 364-74. 

, Nuevos datos sobre la fortuna de Cervantes en Italia, “Revista de filologia 
espafiola” 8 (1921), 281-283; 14 (1927), 183-184. 

, Per la fortuna del Cervantes in Italia nel Seicento, “Studi di filologia 
modema” 2 (1939), 229-55. 

Moretti G., Agli antipodi del mondo. Per la storia di un motivo scientifico- 
leggendario, Trento, Dipartimento di scienze filologiche e storiche, 1990. 

[Morosini M.], J/ Don Chissiot della Mancia, Venezia, Nicolini, 1680. 

[Pariati P.-Zeno A.], Don Chisciotte in Sierra Morena, Vienna, Van Ghelen, 1719. 

Pasquini G.C., Don Chisciotte in corte della Duchessa, Vienna, Van Ghelen, 1727. 

Pieri M., Colombo in mare barocco, una metafora abortita, ““Columbeis” 1 (1986), 
27-52. 

Pioletti A., Arta, Avallone, l'Etma, “Quaderni medievali” 18 (1989), 6-35. 

Ramusio G.B., Navigazioni e viaggi, ac. di M. Milanesi, vol. 6, Torino, Einaudi, 


210 Franco Vazzoler 


1988. 

Regazzoni S., La “buona selvaggia”: l'America in scena nella Venezia del '700, in 
L’impatto della scoperta dell’America nella cultura veneziana, ac. di A. 
Caracciolo Aricé, Roma, Bulzoni, 1990. 

Rossi G. C., Un Don Chisciotte in Venezia di Giuseppe Baretti, “Annali della Facolta 
di Lingue e Letterature straniere di Ca’ Foscari” 19 (1980), 191-196. 

Russo G. P., J libretti di Giambattista Lorenzi e le opere di Giovanni Paisiello: da “II 
furbo malaccorto” a “Le vane gelosie” (1767-1790), “Studi musicali” 20 (1991), 
267-315, 

Sala Di Felice E., Metastasio: ideologia, drammaturgia, spettacolo, Milano, Angeli, 
1983. 

Sartori C., / libretti italiani a stampa dalle origini al 1800, t. 1, Cuneo, Bertola e 
Locatelli, 1990. 

Schino M., Eterogeneita dei teatri nell’ Italia del '700, appendice a G. Wickam, Storia 
del teatro, trad. it., Bologna, I] Mulino, 1988. 

Sedwick B. F., Don Quijote in Italian Opera, “Modem Language Journal” 40 (1956), 
202, 

Sommervogel C., Bibliothéque de la Compagnie de Jésus, t. 7, Bruxelles, Shepens- 
Picard, 1896. 

Sonneck O. G. T., Catalogue of Opera Librettos Printed before 1800, Washington, 
Government Printing Office, 1914. 

Stieger F., Operalexicon, Tutzing, Schneider, 1975. 

Toldo P., L’oeuvre de Moliére et sa fortune en Italie, Torino, Loescher, 1905. 

Todorov T., La conquéte de l'Amérique. La question de I’ autre, Paris Seuil, 1982. 

Turchi R., (a c. di), La commedia del Settecento, in Il teatro italiano, vol. 4, t. 1, 
Torino, Einuadi, 1987. 

Valencia G., Aspectos teatrales del “Quijote” , “Boletin de la Academia Colombiana” 
12 (1962), 311-318. 

von Weilen A., Geschikte des wiener Theaterwesens von den Gltersten Zeiten bis zu 
den Aufangen der Hoftheater, t. 1, Wien, Gesellshaft fiir vervielfaltigende Kunst, 
1899. 


Zeno A., Lettere, Venezia, Valvasense, 1752. 





SPECIAL ISSUE 
$12.95 individual 
$25.00 institution 

$1.75 post 


SUBSCRIPTION 
(3issues) 
$25.00 individual 
$50.00 institution 
$10.00 foreign 
surface post 


RS 

- COURSE 
Volume 15, Number 1 

SPECIAL ISSUE 


FLAUNTING IT: LESBIAN AND GAY STUDIES 


Delinquent Desire: Race, Sex, and Ritual in 
Reform Schools for Girls by Kathryn Baker 


Lesbian Pornography: The Re-Making of (a) 
Community by Terralee Bensinger 


Investigating Queer Fictions of the Past: 
Identities, Differences, and Lesbian and Gay 
Historical Self-Representations by Scott Bravmann 


“lam What! Am” (Or Am1?): The Making and 
Unmaking of Lesbian and Gay Identity in High 
Tech Boys by Sarah Chinn and Kris Franklin 


Nudes, Prudes, and Pigmies: The Desirability 
of Disavowal in Physical Culture Magazine by 
Greg Mullins 


Muscling the Mainstream: Lesbian Murder 
Mysteries and Fantasies of Justice by JoAnn 
Pavletich 


Obscene Allegories: Narrative Structures in Gay 
Male Porn by David Pendleton 


Applied Metaphors: AIDS and Literature by 
Thomas Piontek 


The Traffic in Dildoes: The Phallus as Camp and 
the Revenge of Genderfuck by June L. Reich 


Send orders to Journals Division, Indiana University Press, 601 N. Morton, Bloomington, IN 47404 
Fax to: 812-855-7931 
Call 812-855-9449 with credit card orders 





Stefania Buccini 


“Nuovo Mondo” e “Teatro” 
nell’opera di Carlo Goldoni 


La riscossa erudita e il rigore scientifico degli storici e dei naturalisti del primo e 
secondo Settecento non colmano del tutto la distanza mitica che separa il vecchio 
dal Nuovo Mondo. Anche un primo e rapido sondaggio dei contributi italiani al 
dibattito europeo sulle Americhe prova che fino alla seconda meta del secolo, e 
in certi casi anche oltre, la ricezione del nuovo continente e dei nuovi popoli, 
siano essi i barbari indiani o 1 civili peruviani, oscilla tra i poli sempre piu 
vicini della realta e dell’immaginazione, della storia e della leggenda. 

Negli ultimi decenni del secolo, quando i possedimenti inglesi del Nord si 
impongono alla ribalta nella storia e un’America differenziata si sostituisce ad 
un’America omogenea, salvo alcune eccezioni, i letterati italiani continuano a 
privilegiare l’immagine di una terra mitica e uniforme e a considerare americano 
e selvaggio termini sinonimici. Bisognera attendere la fine del Settecento prima 
che si giunga ad una revisione semantica delle due nozioni e che vengano 
chiaramente definiti “Americani i coloni degli Stati Uniti” e che si finisca 
coll’attribuire “il nome di selvaggi agli aborigeni di quel paese” (Castiglioni 29). 

Pur valutando, e sovente esaltando, il superiore livello etico e culturale di 
societa avanzate come quella incaica e quella azteca, il Settecento continua a 
riconoscere nell’indigeno del Nuovo Mondo il selvaggio per antonomasia, sia 
esso cattivo o buon selvaggio. Ma se questa sauvagerie assoluta dell’indiano 
americano convince Rousseau di aver trovato il corrispettivo reale ed attuale della 
sua etica primitivistica e della sua utopia egualitaria, la maggior parte degli 
intellettuali italiani continua a nutrire un certo sospetto verso |’esaltazione dello 
“stato di natura”, perché eretica e provocatoria nei confronti della dottrina 
illuministica. Sospetto giustificato, dal momento che nella concezione 
roussoiana lo stato presociale, contrapposto a quello presente, incarna la 
condizione ideale dell’ umanita: 


Plus on y réfléchit, plus on trouve que cet état étoit le moins sujet aux révolutions, le 
meilleur a l"homme, et qu’il n’en a du sortir que par quelque funeste hasard qui pour 
V’utilité commune, ett di ne jamais arriver. L’exemple des sauvages qu’on a presque 
tous trouvés 4 ce point semble confirmer que le genre humain étoit fait pour rester 
toujours, que cet état est la véritable jeunesse du monde, et que tous les progrés 
ulterieurs ont été en apparence autant de pas vers la perfection de 1]’individu, et en effet 
vers la décrepitude de l’espéce”. 

(Rousseau 72) 


“Nuovo Mondo” e “Teatro” nell’ opera di Goldoni 213 


Le riserve nei confronti della tesi roussoiana si manifestano in vari interventi 
contro lo “stato di natura”, apparsi poco dopo la pubblicazione del Discours sur 
l' origine et les fondemens de I’ inégalité parmi les hommes (1754). Dalle Lezioni 
di economia civile e dalle Lettere accademiche (1764) di Antonio Genovesi alle 
Riflessioni sopra I’ ineguaglianza tra gli uomini (1779-80) di Francescantonio 
Grimaldi é, infatti, comune la certezza che la tesi di Rousseau legittima il 
regresso dello spirito e la conseguente disfatta della civilta attuale. Ad esempio, 
ribadendo con Voltaire il superiore grado di civilta degli europei, Antonio 
Genovesi condanna “i molti Rousseau che son qui tra noi” (Lezioni 70) e che 
guardano al mondo selvaggio come a un modello di perfezione.' L’ipotesi di un 
ricorso della barbarie risulta inquietante e, in definitiva, intollerabile ad ogni 
spirito illuminato, fiducioso nel progresso dell’umanita e della storia. 

E dunque in questo clima di generale dissenso verso il primitivo che 
l’indigeno americano, pur conquistando la sua cittadinanza nel mondo della 
letteratura, perde la sua connotazione strettamente selvaggia per divenire una 
sorta di cliché ibrido, in cui confluiscono i sani e morigerati ideali borghesi. I] 
“buon selvaggio” viene cosi ricondotto in orizzonti limitati e possibili, in spazi 
quotidiani e realistici e, una volta privato della sua essenza barbarica, finisce per 
diventare o il simbolo di una “salottiera” innocenza o il pretesto di una goffa 
comicita.” 

La tradizione teatrale conferma questo duplice orientamento, adottando da un 
lato soluzioni parodistiche, ricorrenti in farse e balli pantomimi, celebrando 
dall’altro la semplicita americana, contrapposta all’eccessiva sofisticazione 
culturale europea, nella commedia borghese. Va, tuttavia, precisato che in 
quest’ ultimo caso non si tratta di una censura rigida 0 di una satira sferzante della 
societa e dei costumi contemporanei ispirata a modelli francesi come le Lettres 
persanes (1721) di Montesquieu o L’ingénu di Voltaire, ma di una moderata 
ironia che, sorta dal contrasto tra due civilta tanto diverse, serve anche da pretesto 
comico. 

Soprattutto a Venezia, citta che fin dai Cinquecento svolge un ruolo 
fondamentale nella diffusione della letteratura delle scoperte e diviene sede di un 
ampio dibattito sul Nuovo Mondo studiato da Piero Del Negro,? il gusto esotico 
dominante induce autori di teatro celebri come Carlo Goldoni e librettisti meno 


1 Genovesi toma a a precisare il suo disappunto nei confronti della concezione roussoiana: “Ma 
dove s’ignoran elleno le arti? Dove non si conosce il viver civile. Or pud esser egli cognito il viver 
civile senza delle lettere? Via, via su: sbandiamo le lettere: fia fatto sella sapienza civile. Avrem 
fugato le arti. Avrem tolte le citta. Siam selvaggi, amico; selvaggio e infelice son per me termini 
sinonimi, purché mel permetta M. Rosso’” (Autobiografia 405). 
2 Sul cliché del “buon selvaggio” nella letteratura europea del Settecento cfr. Balmas 129-149. 

Lo studio di Del Negro, /! mito americano nella Venezia del Settecento, senza dubbio 
rappresenta il pid illuminante contributo riguardo la ricezione del Nuovo Mondo nella repubblica 
di Venezia e il costituirsi del mito americano nel secolo XVIII. 


214 Stefania Buccini 


celebri come Giuseppe Canziani e Nunziato Porta,* a comporre commedie, 
intermezzi e drammi giocosi di argomento americano. Sono comunque opere di 
scarso rilievo letterario in cui si privilegiano I’intreccio e 1’equivoco, l’ingenua 
sorpresa, piuttosto che il disappunto dell’indigeno americano nei confronti delle 
istituzioni europee, le delicate “selvagge” anziché i barbari “selvaggi”, come ci 
viene confermato da commedie e libretti dedicati ad un’unica protagonista 
femminile, tra cui si distinguono La peruviana e La bella selvaggia di Goldoni. 

Goldoni mette in scena queste due tragicommedie per il teatro San Luca tra 
il 1754 e il 1758, un periodo particolarmente difficile in cui il favore fino a quel 
momento goduto sembra abbandonarlo a causa di nuove polemiche e della 
rivalita col Chiari.” Decide dunque di venire incontro ai gusti degli spettatori 
uniformandosi alla moda esotica con due tragicommedie “americane” che, pur 
essendo scarsamente originali in confronto alla grande stagione del suo teatro, 
sono significative se inquadrate in una prospettiva sociologica: interpretano la 
nuova sensibilita del pubblico settecentesco, sempre pill disposto a incontrare il 
“diverso” e a subirne il fascino. 

La peruviana (1754), l’“esordio americano” di Goldoni, testimonia I’apertura 
italiana ai clichés esotici francesi. L’argomento rimanda infatti alle Lettres d’ une 
Péruvienne di Madame de Graffigny, romanzo epistolare pubblicato a Parigi nel 
1747 in cui, sulla falsariga di Montesquieu, si immagina che la giovane 
peruviana Zilia, separata dal suo promesso sposo Aza, sia condotta in Francia e 
che da qui descriva all’amante lontano usi e costumi francesi. Qualche anno pil 
tardi la versione italiana di quest’ opera avrebbe riscosso un notevole successo, 
come leggiamo nei Mémoires goldoniani: 


Tout le monde connoit les Lettres d'une Péruvienne; je suivis le roman en rapprochant 
les objets principaux; je tachai d’imiter le style simple et naif de Zilia, d’aprés 
l’original de Madame de Graffigny; j’en fis une piece romanesque; j’eus le bonheur de 
réussir, mais je ne donnerai pas 1’extrait d’une piéce dont le fond est connu. 
(Mémoires 373)° 


Il commediografo dichiara ne L’autore a chi legge di aver voluto “tessere una 
commedia sull’idea del romanzo medesimo” (Peruviana 743), i cui personaggi, 
dotati di un’indiscutibile dignita eroica, giustificano la scelta del genere 
tragicomico: 


4 Nel 1778 Nunziato Porta mette in scena per il teatro San Samuele L’Americana in Olanda, un 
dramma giocoso in due atti, e Giuseppe Canziani rappresenta L’ Americana, un ballo eroico 
pantomimo il cui argomento rimanda con ogni probabilita al romanzo Les Incas di Marmontel. Per 
un elenco dei libretti veneziani di argomento americano cfr. Regazzoni 313. 

Sulle commedie scritte per il teatro San Luca cfr. Fido 121-135. 

Goldoni ne L’autore a chi legge ricorda di aver letto la versione italiana del romanzo della 
Graffigny, uscita a Venezia nel 1754 presso il libraio Deregni: “Parve a me, che le Lettere di una 
Peruviana, recate dal Francese nell’ Italiana favella, formassero il pit bel romanzetto del mondo. 
M’innamorai dello stile semplice, ma succoso alla maniera degli Orientali” (Peruviana 744). 


“Nuovo Mondo” e “Teatro” nell’ opera di Goldoni 2H5 


I personaggi di Zilia e di Aza sono di carattere eroico, sufficienti ad una tragedia: ma 
trasportati lungi dal loro paese, in una specie di schiavita, in potere di persona 
privata, che figura principalmente nell’azione dell’opera, fa si che il soggetto diventa 
Comico, o Tragicomico almeno. 

(Peruviana 743) 


La Zilia goldoniana dal regno degli Incas viene condotta in un salotto parigino 
dove, respingendo |’amore del francese Deterville, continua ad amare il principe 
peruviano Aza. Ma infine rinuncera ad Aza, dopo aver scoperto che é suo fratello, 
€ sposera il gentiluomo europeo. L’espediente risolutivo del matrimonio, unica 
variante rispetto al romanzo in cui Zilia rifiuta ogni tipo di compromesso, 
rappresenta la conversione pacifica della protagonista ai costumi europei e segna 
la fine “di un processo d’integrazione del passaggio dallo ‘stato di natura’ alla 
civilta” (Del Negro 491) che non impedisce, pero, alla giovane americana di 
preservare la sua innocenza primitiva: 


Prendo le nuove leggi: confesso il vero Nume. 
Serbero sol nell’alma questo natio costume 
Di dir in faccia a tutti con innocenza il vero, 
Di non celar col viso gli arcani del pensiero. 
(Peruviana 813) 


Il punto di arrivo di questa metamorfosi dallo “stato di natura” allo “stato di 
civilta” coincide con la solenne professione di fede nell’ultimo atto. Qui Zilia ed 
Aza consapevolmente accettano di convertirsi dal paganesimo alla religione, 
dall’istinto alla ragione, senza remore e nostalgie primitivistiche, come dichiara 
il giovane peruviano: 


Piacquemi dell’Europa il rito ed il costume. 

Pit non adoro il Sole, ma chi gli diede il lume. 
L’unico dogma é questo, che troppo tardi appresi, 
Che ha nel mio sen gli affanni ed i rimorsi accesi. 
Mi lusingai, ma invano; sperai senza ragione; 
Ah, facilmente inganna la speme e la passione. 
(Peruviana 808) 


Nell’opera goldoniana Zilia, “tenera giovinetta, che colla bellezza innamora e 
coll’eta eccita alla compassione” (Peruviana 743), si distingue dai francesi 
soltanto per la sua dose di americana schiettezza, e la sua conversione alla 
“civilta” avviene senza traumi, ricorrenti invece nelle Lettres d’ une Péruvienne, 
dove la protagonista frequentemente confida ad Aza le sue riserve nei confronti 
della societa europea. Si tratta delle epistole iniziali del romanzo della Graffigny, 
le pit caustiche nei confronti dei costumi contemporanei, che Goldoni decide di 
ignorare per evitare risvolti polemici e conseguenze rischiose. Infatti nella 


216 Stefania Buccini 


tragicommedia il contrasto tra 1 due mondi € esile e il sarcasmo si risolve in miti 
ed episodiche osservazioni sui costumi europci e, in particolare, sulla 
superficialita e incostanza dei sentimenti: 


Sembranmi dell’Europa belli i costumi e gli usi; 
Ma dei teneri affetti mi spiacciono gli abusi. 
Cangiar si facilmente di cuore e di pensiero, 
Son segni manifesti di un animo leggiero. 

Pit spirto e pit bellezza nelle Europee si vede, 


Ma avrebbero pili merto se avessero pit fede. 
(Peruviana 752) 


Nel modello francese, invece, l’impatto di Zilia con la realté parigina consente di 
articolare un ironico confronto tra i peruviani e i francesi sul piano etico, 
culturale e politico e di denunciare le contraddizioni e le carenze dei secondi: 


Ce n’est pas sans un véritable regret, mon cher Aza, que je passe de 1|’admiration du 
génie des Frangais au mépris de l’usage qu’ils en font. Je me plaisois de bonne foi 4 
estimer cette nation charmante; mais je ne puis me refuser a ]’evidence de ses défauts. . 
. . La vanité dominante des Frangais est celle de paroitre opulens. Le génie, les arts, et 


peut-étre les sciences, tout se rapporte au faste, tout concourt a la ruine des fortunes. 
(Graffigny 340-342) 


I francesi sono “idolatri” delle cose effimere e “leur goat effréné pour le superflu 
a corrompu leur raison” (Graffigny 744), mentre i peruviani vivono saggiamente 
osservando le loro leggi, “les plus sages qui aient été données aux hommes” 
(Graffigny 744) da Manco Capac, capostipite degli Incas e fondatore di un impero 
felice nel progresso delle arti e delle scienze. La stessa nozione di “civilta”, con 
tutta la sua valenza provocatoria, sollecita qui una comparazione tra lo stato di 
una Francia contemporanea e quello di un Pert’ scomparso, e ormai leggendario, 
in Cui un’intera generazione di intellettuali — da Parini e Algarotti a Carlie a 
Marmontel — proietta i propri sogni riformatori.” 

Le civilta precolombiane sono in grado di adattarsi all’ortodossia 
illuministica proprio perché evolute e lontane da ogni organizzazione primitiva, 
mentre il culto del “buon selvaggio”, con la sua accezione barbarica e antistorica, 
pud facilmente condurre a conseguenze sovversive. E in questa prospettiva che le 
societa americane avanzate, e in prima linea quella incaica, finiscono per 
polarizzare le aspirazioni dell’eta dei lumi e per incarnare una vera e propria 
utopia che raggiungera la sua apoteosi negli ultimi decenni del secolo con Les 
Incas ou La destruction de |’ empire du Pérou (1778) di Marmontel e le Lettere 


7 Ne II mito del Pert: Gerbi ricostruisce in modo sistematico la storia della leggenda peruviana 
dalla sua genesi cinquecentesca fino al suo declino. Sulle valenze utopiche del Pert nel Settecento 
letterario in Italia cfr. L’America dei Lumi 89-126 e Buccini 74-89. 


“Nuovo Mondo” e “Teatro” nell’ opera di Goldoni 217 


americane di Carli (1780). 

Dopo La Peruviana, della quale |’autore non esita a riconoscere “la mediocre 
riuscita” (Peruviana 743), Goldoni torna alla ribalta nel 1758 con un’altra 
tragicommedia “americana”, La bella selvaggia. Anche questa volta il 
commediografo lavora di seconda mano servendosi di due fonti ben precise:? i 
capitoli sulla Guayana dell’Histoire générale des voyages di Prevost (Mémoires 
387) e la tragedia di Voltaire Alzire, ou les Américains, in cui la storia di una 
giovane peruviana, contesa tra il principe americano Zamore e il conquistatore 
spagnolo Gusmane, porta sulle scene il conflitto tra barbarie e civilta, uno dei 
temi pill graditi agli spettatori illuminati. Come la protagonista goldoniana 
Delmira, anche gli altri personaggi sono modellati su quelli voltairiani, ma ai 
dominatori spagnoli si sostituiscono i portoghesi e l’azione anziché nel regno 
degli Incas si svolge “sur la riviere des Amazones” (Mémoires 388) nella 
Guayana, e pil’ precisamente in una nuova isola scoperta dagli Spagnoli, La 
Trinité secondo la descrizione dell’abate Prévost (335). 

Pitt che nella Peruviana, in questa seconda opera teatrale il commediografo 
mostra di essere al corrente del dibattito settecentesco sulla natura degli americani 
e di conoscere le qualita pi: comuni dei selvaggi come I’onesta, l’uguaglianza e 
la liberta. Nella dedica a Caterina Dolfin Tiepolo, Goldoni dichiara di voler 
presentare al pubblico una “Commedia fondata, comunque siasi, sulla base della 
virta, dell’ onore e della costanza” (La bella 820): 


Vedra Delmira suscettibile degli umani affetti, ma rigorosa ne’ suoi doveri: la sentira 
parlare con quel linguaggio con cui parlerebbero le Donne tutte, se non fossero dal 
mal esempio sedotte, poiché natura é madre comune, né puo da per sé sola corrompere 
i cuori umani. Scorgera ella in quest’eroina del nuovo Mondo le belle virti che sono 
all’ E. V. pit care, tanto nel di Lei animo perfezionate, quant’Ella al docile 
temperamento ha potuto aggiugnere lo studio e |’educazione. . . . Pare a Lei di saper 
pochissimo, dicendo: non ho studiato. Ma appunto perch’Ella crede di saper poco, sa 
pit di quelli che pensano saper molto. 

(La bella 818) 


I tratti distintivi e i valori dei popoli primitivi sono pil avanti riassunti nella 
dichiarazione del vecchio e saggio indiano Papadir al portoghese Don Alonso: 


Di provvida natura noi seguitiam la legge 

Quel piii tra noi si stima, che pit: fecondo ha il gregge. 
Un arco, una faretra, ci da tra queste selve 

il nobile diletto di abbattere le belve. 

L’ispida pelle irsuta che agli animai si toglie, 

suole nel crudo verno formar le nostre spoglie. 

E delle membra loro insanguinate ancora 


8 sul rapporto tra La bella selvaggia e le fonti settecentesche cfr. Buccini 59-65. 


218 Stefania Buccini 


Dal cacciator contento la carne si divora. 
L’erbe, i frutti le piante son comuni fra noi. 
La terra in ogni tempo feconda i semi suoi; 
E a spegner della sete i consueti ardori, 
Scaturiscon dal monte i cristallini umori. 
(La Bella 829-830) 


Ma se da un lato Goldoni conosce e loda le virti degli indiani, dall’altro non 
ignora tutte quelle intemperanze che gli ““americanisti” contemporanei avevano, 
pit o meno arbitrariamente, attribuito ai nuovi popoli.? La caparbieta, la 
flemma, l’indolenza e infine l’insaziabilita, difetti rinomati degli americani, 
confluiscono nel personaggio del “‘selvatico” Schichirat, avido di vini europei: 


Solamente una cosa da noi non praticata 
Piacemi estremamente e parmi delicata: 

Quel che vino chiamate. Ieri ne ho tracannato 
Quattro vasi ricolmi, e poi mi ho addormentato. 
Che bel piacer quand’uno qualche dolor si sente, 
Colla bevanda in corpo dormir si dolcemente! 
Non ho provato al mondo pit: amabile diletto. 
Il vin rallegra i spiriti, il vin riscalda il petto. 
Se altro voi non aveste di buon che il solo vino, 
Sol per questa cagione vi venero e v’inchino. 
Si, starei volentieri coi schiavi alla catena 
Purché mi permettessero di bere a pancia piena; 
E anche mi adatterei a far qualche mestiere, 

Se il vino in abbondanza mi dessero da bere. 
(La bella 836) 


Che l’ebbrezza provocata da bevande alcoliche fosse uno dei vizi pit! comuni tra 
gli indiani d’ America é confermato da varie fonti settecentesche. L’ abate Prévost 
scrive che gli indigeni della Guayana erano soliti bere un liquore composto di 
“poivre de l’Amérique & du suc de plusieurs herbes” (383) e Muratori, 
descrivendo le barbare abitudini degli indigeni del Paraguay, ricorda che “‘se 
arrivano a godere il regalo di qualche fiasco di vino, sogliono perdere il senno” 
(23). 

A differenza della Peruviana che, ambientata in Francia, consente a Goldoni 
di valersi del confronto tra l’americana sprovveduta e la societa parigina per 
attivare il meccanismo comico, La bella selvaggia comporta l’adozione di altre 
strategie drammatiche. Da un lato Goldoni accentua la componente esotica a 
causa della scelta di uno spazio scenico americano, dall’altro escogita pretesti 
umoristici che lo conducono a risultati non sempre riusciti, come la caricatura 


9 Come sintesi del dibattito settecentesco sulla natura degli indiani americani cfr. La disputa del 
Nuovo Mondo di Gerbi. 


“Nuovo Mondo” e “Teatro” nell’ opera di Goldoni 219 


dell’indiano nel personaggio di Schichirat, e assai vicini al “comico volgare” 
(Ortolani 585) dei balli pantomimi. 

Tuttavia, al mutamento degli sfondi e al conseguente intensificarsi 
dell’esotismo non corrisponde una rilevante evoluzione dell’ideologia che 
informa l’opera precedente. Pur essendo “il pezzo forte del primitivismo naturale 
goldoniano” (Dazzi 145) e pur affermando l’esistenza di una ragione e di una 
religione naturali,!° anche La bella selvaggia come La Peruviana, rappresenta un 
processo di approdo alla fede e la conseguente integrazione degli americani nella 
civilta, di cui intenzionalmente e fiduciosamente si esaltano i pregi e i principi 
strutturali. Al radicalismo del “buon selvaggio” di Rousseau, la cui dottrina é 
certamente presente a Goldoni quando nel 1757-1758 scrive La bella selvaggia, si 
contrappone il moderato “buon senso” della saggia Delmira che “reggendosi coi 
soli principi della natura, ama l’onesto e preferisce la virtt ad ogni bene” (La 
bella 588). Il primitivo @, dunque, per Goldoni portavoce di un ideale di moralita 
che si fonda sul binomio di virti e ragione, come dichiara Delmira al promesso 
sposo Don Alonso: 


Qual dei nostri selvaggi rio concetto formate? 
Non apprezzan virtude? Signor voi v’ingannate. 
Altre leggi, altri riti hanno i paesi estrani 

Ma la ragion per tutto regna nei cori umani; 

E di onesto costume le massime onorate, 

Forse da noi selvaggi saran meglio osservate. 
Quivi desio non sprona gli animi alle rapine 

A seminar non vassi le stragi e le rovine; 
Ciascun del proprio stato si appaga e si contenta, 
Suo ben coll’altrui danno di procacciar non tenta. 
Ai miseri soccorso porgere a noi s’insegna. 

Fra noi la data fede perpetuamente impegna. 

E se virtt si chiama vivere vita onesta 

L’hanno i selvaggi in petto. La lor virtude é questa. 
(La bella 833) 


La cornice esotica assume qui una valenza ideologica. Delmira, pur se paludata 
nel suo “stato di natura”, glorifica con moderazione e fiducia i principi costitutivi 
dell’etica borghese, e in primo luogo l’uguaglianza sociale e la conformazione 
dinamica di una societa fondata sul merito personale di ciascun individuo che la 
compone: 


10 sj legga quanto rivela Papadir a Don Alonso a proposito della religione naturale dei selvaggi: 
“Questo lume supremo ci regola e ci addita / Quel ch’é a noi necessario per conservarci in vita. / 
Noi veneriamo il sole perché di luce abbonda, / Perché le terre nostre coi raggi suoi feconda; / Ma 
abbiam nell’alme nostre dalla ragione impresso, / Che il sol da un maggior Nume sia regolato 
anch’esso” (La bella 830). 


220 Stefania Buccini 


Fra queste selve oscure dove siam tutti uguali, 

Il merto non consiste nel sangue, e nei natali. 
Non si distingue il grado, ma apprezzasi di pil 
Chi supera nel pregio d’onore, e di virtu. 

Quei son veri beni, che ognuno da sé procura, 
Negli altri non ha merito, che il caso, e la natura. 
(La bella 858) 


Del tutto privo di istinti puri e di implicazioni psicologiche, il mondo selvaggio 
di Goldoni non intende dunque sowvertire, ma consolidare le rispettabili conquiste 
della borghesia illuminata. Il “Mondo Nuovo” pud dunque entrare nell’universo 
del “Teatro”, ma solo per “spargere semi di buona filosofia” (La bella 818) e non 
deludere cosi le aspettative e i sogni del secondo Settecento. 


University of Wisconsin-Madison 


Opere citate 


Balmas E., Jl buon selvaggio nella cultura francese del Settecento, Milano, 
Cisalpino-Goliardica, 1980. 
Buccini S., // dilemma della Grande Atlantide: le Americhe nella letteratura italiana del 
Settecento e del primo Ottocento, Napoli, Loffredo, 1990. 
Caracciolo Aricd Angela (a c. di), L’impatto della scoperta dell’ America nella cultura 
veneziana, Roma, Bulzoni, 1990. 
Carli G., Delle lettere americane, Firenze, Cosmopoli, 1780. 
Castiglioni L., Viaggio negli Stati Uniti dell’America Settentrionale fatto nel 1785, 
1786 e 1787, Milano, Giuseppe Marelli, 1790. 
Dazzi M., Carlo Goldoni e la sua poetica sociale, Torino, Einaudi, 1957. 
Del Negro P., I] mito americano nella Venezia del Settecento, Padova, Liviana, 1986. 
Fido F., Guida a Goldoni: teatro e societa nel Settecento, Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 
Genovesi A., Lettere accademiche, in Autobiografia, lettere ed altri scritti, ac. di G. 
Savarese, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1962. 
, Lezioni di commercio ed economia civile, vol. VII, Milano , De Stefani, 
1803. 
Gerbi A., La disputa del Nuovo Mondo. Storia di una polemica (1750-1900), Milano, 
Ricciardi, 19837. 
, Il mito del Peru, Milano, Angeli, 1988. 
Goldoni C., La bella selvaggia, vol. 9 di Tutte le opere. 
, Mémoires, vol. 1 di Tutte le opere. 
, La peruviana, vol. 9 di Tutte le opere. 
, Tutte le opere, ac. di G. Ortolani, Milano, Mondadori, 1959. 
Graffigny F. (de), Lettres d'une Péruvienne, Paris, Migneret, 1797. 
Grimaldi F., Discorso sull’ineguaglianza tra gli uomini, vol. 5 di Illuministi italiani, 
ac. di F. Venturi, Milano, Ricciardi, 1962. 





“Nuovo Mondo” e “Teatro” nell’ opera di Goldoni 221 


L’ America dei Lumi, ac. di C. Acutis e A. Morino, Torino, La Rosa, 1989. 

Marmontel J. F., Les Incas ou La destruction de l'empire du Pérou, Lyon, chez Amable 
Leroy, 1810. 

Montesquieu C. L., Lettres persanes, vol. 1 di Oeuvres complétes, Paris, Gallimard, 
1949. 

Muratori L. A., Il Cristianesimo felice nelle Missioni dei Padri della Compagnia di 
Gest nel Paraguay, vol. 1, Venezia, Pasquali, 1743. 

Ortolani, G., Nota storicaaLa bella selvaggia, vol. 24 di Opere complete di C. 
Goldoni, Venezia, edizione del Municipio di Venezia, 1927, 583-586. 

Prévost A. F., Histoire générale des voyages, vol. V1, Paris, Didot, 1746. 

Regazzoni S., “La buona selvaggia” : l’America di scena nella Venezia del Settecento, 
in Caracciolo Aricd 309-320. 

Rousseau J. J., Discours sur l’origine et les fondemens de l'inégalité parmi les 
hommes, in Du contrat social et autres oeuvres politiques, Paris, Garnier Fréres, 
1975. 

Voltaire F. M. A., Alzire, ou les Américains, vol. 3 di Oeuvres complétes, Paris, 
Garnier, 1880. 

, L'ingénu, histoire véritable tirée des manuscrits du Pére Quesnel, in Romans 

et contes, Paris, Gallimard, 1954. 





Franklin C. Cacciutto 


History and Romance in Rafael Sabatini’s Columbus 


Colon declares he finds it best 

To reach the east by sailing west. 

I nothing doubt he’s found as well 
The road to heaven lies through hell. 
(Sabatini, Columbus: A Romance 45) 


1. Sabatini and History 

A British national, Rafael Sabatini was born in Jesi, Italy, in 1875, and educated 
at the Ecole Cantonale, Zoug, Switzerland, and in Oporto, Portugal. Writing in 
English as a multi-national historian and historical romanticist, a cosmopolitan 
and prolific Sabatini created over forty “period novels” (Landrum 602-3) ranging 
in carefully researched setting over several centuries in England, France, Italy, 
Spain, America and the Caribbean. Departing in a characteristic way from the 
romance formula, in which the historical protagonist is not a “world historical” 
figure but rather a common man, he wrote best selling novelizations and 
sketches of Columbus and of other cultural icons including Saint Francis of 
Assisi, Joan of Arc, Lord Nelson, and Florence Nightingale, as well as full- 
length, voraciously researched historiobiographies of Cesare Borgia and 
Torquemada. His popular success was unequivocal; the question of his 
seriousness as an artist and as a historian and of the aesthetic value of his work 
deserves reconsideration. Sabatini may have been heralded as the “new Dumas” 
by his publishers and avid readership, but was regarded as a writer of mere 
potboilers by critics and historians who generally made quick work of him. 
Avrom Fleishman may well have had Sabatini in mind in his dismissive defense 
of historical romance: “Despite the prevalence of Kitsch historical novels — the 
kind which become spectacular movies in the Cecil B. DeMille style — the state 
of the art of historical fiction is still high” (xvii). Despite the success of his 
fiction from The Sea Hawk and Scaramouche to Columbus as Hollywood films, 
Sabatini is primarily a writer of novels whose broad influence upon our cultural 
sense of history and the popular images of a score of canonical biographical 
subjects has been neglected, but whose importance to the study of the place of 
historical romance in popular literature is unquestionable. 

His novel, Columbus: A Romance (1942), was written upon the occasion 
of the four-hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the First Voyage. Throughout his 
career Sabatini was an insightful and enthusiastic reader of history who enjoyed 
answering the general condescension of historians toward his art blow for blow: 
“historians . . . are not necessarily more faithful to their material than are period 


History and Romance in R. Sabatini’s Columbus —223 


artists, and they seldom write as well” (cit. Landrum 604). Certainly the 
Columbus Quincentenary is proving occasion for the kind of history writing 
Sabatini assails. In commenting upon Kirkpatrick Sale’s recent work of popular 
history, The Conquest of Paradise: Christopher Columbus and the Columbian 
Legacy, a Book-of-the-Month Club Main Selection, William H. McNeill of the 
Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Committee observes that this 
“learned, lopsided account” which denigrates Columbus is an example of the kind 
of “unhistorical” history writing which “caricatures the complexity of human 
reality by turning Columbus into either a bloody ogre or a plaster saint.” 
McNeill asks why “the record lends itself so well to radical reshapings” (28). The 
answer may be that the record is itself a strong shaping of events, an artifice 
beginning with Columbus’s presentation of himself to the court of Spain and 
continuing through his Journals as they come to us through Las Casas to the 
representations of Columbus in our own day by Morison and Paolucci. Until the 
Columbus record is interpreted by historians, there may be no end of eccentricity 
in the representations made of his character and actions by artists and historians, 
only the consistent sense of the legendary man “already known” (Hedges 1: 127- 
40) for the obdurate fact of the adventurousness of his voyages and the 
importance of his revelation of the New World to the Old. Neither scapegoat nor 
stock character, Sabatini’s Columbus is a romantic celebration of the Discoverer 
within the limits of his vision and ambition. It is a dramatization of what within 
and against the great powers of Church and State an individual man, however 
heroic, can be and do. 

In his greatness, Columbus is an atypical subject for historical romance. 
Fleishman has observed that the individuals selected by the English historical 
novelist for heroic (or at least specially marked) status are not likely to be world- 
historical figures, for such figures are by definition exceptional, since they 
realize in themselves the tensions and directions of history at a particular time 
(10). Yet Sabatini is a novelist of the maritime hero, of the revolutionary hero, 
of the chivalric hero — of heroic biographical subjects, masculine and feminine, 
whose roles in the history of the world have Hegelian range and measure. He is 
thus an atypical historical romanticist. The special novelistic imagination which 
forms history in his fiction is of a personal and restive kind, which for all the 
recognizability of his work makes it difficult to generalize about his vision of 
history or even to estimate the esthetic — as opposed to the absolutely 
indisputable popular — success of his historical novels. A scholarly historian 
himself and voracious reader of history, he nonetheless at heart felt a great 
antipathy toward history and historians. What Morton Dauwen Zabel has said of 
his better-regarded contemporary as a historical novelist, Joseph Conrad, might 
also be said of him: “Conrad’s general view of history, past or present, hinges 
on a persistent and incurable doubt — an inveterate suspicion of the passions 
that animate it; a fear of the selfish, irrational, or predatory forces it unleashes to 
prey on the pride and honor of men and societies; a repugnant sense of its 


224 Franklin C. Cacciutto 


hostility to the truth and decency in the conscience of the hero or man of honor” 
(cit. Fleishman 212; Zabel xli). Sabatini’s Columbus is an embodiment of this 
criticality, a protest against history. 

In 1942 — the four hundred and fiftieth anniversary of Columbus’ discovery 
of America as well as a play upon the numbers of the year of his landfall — 
Sabatini, writing as a British novelist of the 1940s for whom the World War 
was both a crushing failure of civilization and an occasion for heroic endurance 
and achievement in a “world without beliefs” (Hynes 162), recast Irving’s 
seminal image of Columbus to fit the form of historical fiction. He did so while 
other British writers, for example, Louis MacNiece in his radio play Columbus, 
laboring to come to terms with the nightmare of racist Fascist assaults upon 
civilization in the name of national superiority and the will, confronted the 
subtext of Irving’s Columbus with ambivalence, uncertain about what to make 
of him (Hazlett 574-75). 

Indeed, writers such as MacNiece were struggling with the very idea of a 
great man. He suggests in the afterword to his radio play about Columbus, as 
though apologizing for having represented Columbus as a classical hero, that 
Columbus “with a small c” resembles Hitler as a man of “instinct,” an 
unhistorical aberration which has been and will be heard again as the 
Quincentenary approaches. But MacNiece’s play itself belies his second 
thoughts. It is a powerful celebration of the Discovery and of the spirit of 
Columbus, while Sabatini’s Columbus in his reason and humanity is the 
extreme antithesis of the Hitlerian madman. One perhaps senses, reading 
Sabatini, the operation of the Aristotelian logical principle of non-contradiction 
in the development of the image of Columbus in British literature at this time, 
here as in the demonstration of the futility of typical propagandistic 
simplifications and distortions of history depicted as the activity of the 
Department of Truth in George Orwell’s 1984. As a metahistorical principle, 
errors and lies cannot endure; somehow, in time, the truth will out, the 
redoubtable British literature of the 1940s teaches. Against the darkness, 
romantic fiction adumbrates another way to tell the twice-told story, 
illuminating the past in ways the historical record may oppose as counterfactual 
or fail to support. 

Setting the romantic and chivalric idealism of his protagonist lovers within 
a highly detailed, historically authentic milieu in a characteristic way, Sabatini’s 
Columbus: A Romance has the doubled structure of a novel within a novel. The 
narrative transmutes from historical dramatization to romance with the first 
confrontation of the historical dimension by Columbus’s visionary idealism,! 
and continues to turn from historical dramatization to romance through such 
devices as this doubly ironic doggerel stab at Columbus: “The silly lampoon had 
enjoyed a vogue in a court which welcomed weapons of ridicule. It had reached 


1 On “transitional genre,” see Hegel 1: 60. 


History and Romance in R. Sabatini’s Columbus —_ 225 


the ears of the lordly Messer Federigo Mocenigo, Venetian Ambassador. . . . In 
distant Venice a pattern of sinister design was being woven into the warp of his 
destiny” (45). This “sinister design” is “the web” (113) of allegorized history 
embracing an allegorized romance fantasy in which the evil of reactionary 
political power contends with the good of a brave visionary and his true love, 
who can escape from the web only through the pastoralization of the first 
voyage. An ordeal, the first voyage tests Columbus as the landfall and discovery 
will prove him, his return to Spain the “Zenith” (414) of his life and the 
triumphant “Satisfaction” (420) of both his honor and his love. The return of 
Columbus is a trope of narrative romance over narrative history.” 

The novel moves inward from the frame of fidelity to historical materials 
into the domain of historical romance centering around a stock romance beloved, 
the woman of sin who is in truth pure and true,’ here Beatriz, known as the 
dancer La Gitanilla, “a girl like a houri in a Muslim’s dream of Paradise” (48), 
but behind the scenes “as circumspect and formal as upon the stage she could be 
reckless and abandoned” (54). She is based upon Beatriz Enriquez de Harana, 
whom Columbus met as a young orphan int the household of a friend, and who 
became his mistress and the mother of his illegitimate son Ferdinand, his first 
biographer. Samuel Eliot Morison writes, “nothing is known of her appearance, 
personality or character” (84). Sabatini allegorizes her. As the idealized beloved 
of Columbus, she evokes high ideals of chivalry and the religion of courtly love. 
She resists violation and corruption threatened by an embodiment of masculine 
historical forces, Don Ramon de Aguilar, Count of Arias, envoy of Castile and 
Aragon to the Most Serene Republic of Venice, stock figure: “There was a 
twitch of his excellency’s vilely loose mouth, deplorable feature of an otherwise 
darkly handsome, narrow face. Then with a slow, sly smile at his image in the 
mirror, he went to greet his unexpected visitor” (55). It is a nightmare moment 
suggesting that behind the matter-of-fact appearance of things Columbus must 
contend with intractable evil. The metahistorical suggestion is that we can know 
history only through such romantic fictions. This predatory moment is the 
moral antipode of the pastoral retreat to the sanctuary of La Rabida with which 
the historical narrative begins. 

Sabatini begins his historical romance at the same point in the story of 
Columbus which Washington Irving chose for the frontispiece of the final 
edition of The Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus from those illustrated 
by his great friend, the American artist David Wilkes, who had travelled with 
him through Spain and Europe during the years of his expatriation. The scene is 
the Convent of La Rabida, to which Columbus retreats with his young son 


2 Like Scott, Sabatini deliberately plays history and fiction off against one another, fiction and 
history both verbal worlds. But unlike Scott, Sabatini believes romantic fiction to be revelatory of 
truth (Kerr 15-16). 

For example, Hester Prynne (Dekker 220-71). 


226 Franklin C. Cacciutto 


Diego, and, there harbored, finds in dinner table conversation the audience, allies, 
and sympathies for the ideas which would eventually win him audience with 
Ferdinand and Isabella. Here is an inspired and inspiring Columbus, “fiery of eye 
and liberal of gesture” (20), animated in conversation, his son Diego at his side 
among the prelates and mariners at his table, including the physician Garcia 
Fernandez and Martin Alonso Pinz6n, who is to captain the Nifia. The scene is 
of the nature of the romantic writing of history: meditative, speculative, closer 
to conversation than either rhetoric or analytical history may admit themselves 
to be. The sense is that the true nature of the man is expressed in immediate 
conversation, first with Diego, then with Frey Juan Pérez. Neither the image of 
the first landfall nor the image of Columbus in chains, but rather the image of 
the man among those who know him best, is where Irving and Sabatini would 
have their readers begin. For, although writing in different genres — historical 
romance and romantic history — they intend in a way characteristic of both 
genres to work a profound alliance of their readers with their world-historical 
subjects, a commonality and sense of identification with the voice of Columbus 
despite the exceptionality of their uncommon hero. 

Since Sir Walter Scott created historical romance as we know it, it has been 
the preferred genre of American readers, a market for potboilers but also for the 
work of serious writers (Dekker 1). One may be certain that the first American 
editions of the Waverley novels were among the most successful books peddled 
by the itinerant bookseller whom Van Wyck Brooks has depicted plying his trade 
during the formative time in American history which he calls the Age of 
Washington Irving.* Our sense of history — that is, historical common 
knowledge and our cultural grasp of historical fact — has both influenced and 
been influenced by historical fiction since the Waverley novels, and Irving wrote 
his Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus and his fictive histories with the 
intention of playing a role in that reciprocity. His then innovative 
historiobiography is rigorously researched and matter-of-fact history written with 
a profound sense of the romance of Columbus, the conflicted hero within and 
ultimately transcending his times, a prospect reflecting the romantic influences 
upon Irving of Scott’s novels and histories, the poetry of Lord Byron, and 
Coleridge’s criticism, as well as the romantic biographies of Southey and 
Moore.° The “history of [American] ideas about history” (Dekker 12) must 
include an account of the shaping role of historical fiction in the development of 
our ideas about the nature of history as those ideas have developed from Irving to 


4 5 Brooks begins The World of Washington Irving with a description of Matthew Carey’s 
“vagabond book-hawker.” He writes of Irving in England, “He longed to give his own country a 
colour of romance and tradition, and the great-hearted Scott, who freely prophesied his fame, 
confirmed his ambitions and interests” (200). 

Joseph Reed might have included Washington Irving among the few artistically successful 
biographers he acknowledges in English Biography (vii). 


History and Romance in R. Sabatini’s Columbus = 227 


our own day. 

The line of development of the image of Columbus in literature wends 
sinuously between genres, for various writers through time moved to embody 
the spirit of Columbus in their art. Between Washington Irving’s romantic 
history and Sabatini’s romance, Columbus, there is, traversing Tennyson, a 
shared concern with the past and a desire to return to art and to history a romantic 
sense of the meaning of the hero for man. As history and biography transmuted 
from the Age of Reason through the Age of Revolution and the Age of 
Romance, Irving in contemplating Columbus as an historical subject worriedly 
mused whether his readers would accept his telling history “with plausibility.”© 
They proved to do so, Irving’s Columbus serving as the definitive Life until 
well into our century, until, precisely as Sabatini wrote his romance Columbus, 
the historian Samuel Eliot Morison wrote Admiral of the Ocean Sea: A Life of 
Christopher Columbus. There is deeply felt romance of the sea to Morison’s 
biography, but also a decided attempt to be unromantic about Columbus beyond 
his almost preternatural abilities as a “deadreckoner.” What Sabatini’s romance 
offers is the overtly fictive but not unhistorical sense of romantic heroism over 
and against the decadence and destructiveness of civilization. Similarly, the 
motive of restoring to literature the “improbable and marvelous,” which Leslie 
Fiedler views as central to both romance and the gothic (162), is one which 
Sabatini, writing in opposition to debunking analysts in his own time, made his 
own. His romantic heroes, including his Columbus, triumph in spirit over the 
dark mysteries of the mind and the ineluctability of experience. His Columbus is 
first and foremost an intellectual; his element is the ocean sea, but the quality of 
his mind and heart is best felt in “dazzling verbal exchanges” (Landrum 605). 
Opening Sabatini’s last novels, one could look forward not to swashbuckling 
swordplay — which is romantic action for the screen rather than for the page — 
as there is virtually none of Sabatini’s trademark violence in his Columbus — 
but rather to communing with a robustly romantic writer serious in his study of 
the past and celebrating in that past heroic achievement able to move and inspire 
us today. 

From Irving’s biography to Tennyson’s dramatic monologue to the popular 
romance of Sabatini and the verse drama of Claudel, romantic representations of 
the historical Columbus — a figure whose life from birth to death was in fact a 
romantic paradigm, “a vision and a realization of that vision” (O’Neill 27) — 
have argued passionately for the central place of the individual man in the 
scheme of an increasingly dehumanizing and impersonal civilization. In its 
essential animus, the ironic image of Columbus in chains in history and fiction 
alike argues human values against the cruelties of nations and the vanities of 
power. We identify with the lovers in this conflict, and with Columbus in his 


6 Letter to Henry Brevoort, 23 Feb. 1828, The Letters of Washington Irving to Henry Brevoort, ed. 
George S. Hellman, New York: 1915. 2: 204; cit. Hedges 1:129. 


228 Franklin C. Cacciutto 


frailties as well as in his success. Sabatini’s Columbus never wears the chains in 
which he was returned to Spain after the third voyage — the narrative takes 
Columbus only through his first voyage and triumphal return (following Irving) 
and reunion with Beatriz. But those chains are felt in the tension between the 
historical fiction which constitutes the frame of the novel and the enframed and 
opposing historical romance — Sabatini’s fantasy of the love between 
Columbus and his Beatriz, their sympathetic humanity allegorically contrasted to 
the cruelty, meanness, and vanity of church and national power. That tension is 
resolved by the romantically allegorical ending Sabatini invents, in which 
Columbus in an astonishing gesture rejects a royal audience to fly to Beatriz. 
Here courtly love is a religion of love, fidelity to Beatriz transcending fame and 
fortune in a perfect, soul-saving moment. It is Sabatini’s expression of Irving’s 
“Te deum.” Irving secularizes the hymn; despite Columbus’s heartfelt religious 
intentions, it is felt primarily as a song of praise of Columbus rather than as a 
hymn to god. It is a moment in which Columbus is the apotheosis of a 
Renaissance hero. Sabatini’s this-worldly conclusion ends his narrative with a 
parallel humanism, his Columbus choosing Beatriz rather than royal 
commendation, a woman over ascendancy in a medieval hierarchy of being. 

But, to modify a salient point made by the foremost contemporary critic of 
the historical novel, Georg Lukacs, historical fictions in the Waverley tradition 
such as Sabatini’s Columbus are celebrations not only of the independent genius 
of “world-historical” personages like Columbus (or Rob Roy or Daniel Boone) 
but rather as well of the humanity of men and women who make the discovery 
(or adventure or path) of the great man their own by following him into the 
unknown or to a New World and against or despite the cruel powers of history 
and nations (Dekker 284). Lukdcs recognizes the symbolic significance of the 
gothic formula, if not its essential romanticism (Fleishman xvi), in which the 
innocent hero or heroine or young lovers are oppressed by villainous power 
embodying official and historical forces, whether degenerate aristocrats or cruel 
slave masters. The history read by historical fiction is a history where 
womankind is violated by historical forces and the men who dominate and 
express those forces (Fleishman 208) and is “mechanical, greed directed, and 
masculine; human values are feminine” (209). Columbus in chains is by this 
formula an authentic subject for historical romance, a symbolic hero expressing 
the integrity and vitality each of us as individuals must have if our highest ideals 
of freedom and truth are to prevail. Under the cover of a narrative aside — “No 
word of this to any man” (52) — Sabatini invents an allegorical romance within 
his precisely realistic historical fiction. The Doge of Venice Agostino Barbarigo 
proposes that Beatriz, the beautiful dancer, steal the Toscanelli letter,’ thereby 


7 Producing the Toscanelli letter proves the authoritative trump in Columbus’s argument, although 
Columbus is loathe to use it unless he must. Romantically, Columbus would have reason, not the 
authority of Toscanelli, be the basis for the success of his petition. But the Doge knows the ways of 


History and Romance in R. Sabatini’s Columbus = 229 


forestalling Columbus’s attempt to win royal approval for his visionary 
proposal: “Such beauty as yours, madonna, is a currency that purchases most 
things from most men, and this man, as I’ve informed myself, is no anchorite” 
(79). Her brother, Pablo de Arana, has been arrested for theft; recompense for 
intercession on his behalf demands the bartering of her beauty in the service of 
the State. Her protest is the stock one of chastity in such distress: “Your 
excellency overlooks that I may be a virtuous woman” (59). But much of her 
characterization is more pointed. Her senses revolted: “Oh, can’t you do it 
without bargaining?” (60). Property and power, the “sordid bargain” (131) 
allegorically embodied, would degrade Beatriz and Columbus as exploitative 
Spanish colonialism despoiled the New World. This metafictional moment in 
the Doge’s chambers may be seen as an element in the strategy of romance 
practiced by Sabatini. He leads us to despise the reality of bargaining — here 
bargaining as the prostitution of innocent beauty — as a necessary precondition 
of historical action. The reader shares Beatriz’s visceral revulsion, but recognizes 
that in this dramatization of the dark side of the novel’s moral spectrum, 
Sabatini is true to things as they are, and we are led to identify with, rather than 
condemn, the historical Columbus for having compromised his innocence as the 
price of historical action. If Columbus is a Promethean figure, he is also a 
Faustian one; in the first audience with Ferdinand and Isabella in which Sabatini 
first demonstrates the range of Columbus’s romanticism, the Prior of the Prado 
warns him of heresy: “you go perilously deep, sir”; to which Columbus replies, 
“Tt is my way, Sir Prior” (33). Here sinuous individual behavior transmutes into 
social and political norms and hard practices, seen as historical phenomena. 


2. The Return of Columbus 

An integral aspect of what Washington Irving called the Columbus “already 
known” has always been this tradition of identification, common knowledge of 
Columbus widely felt among Americans who have followed him in their 
immigration and shared thereby the archetypal tribulations and triumphs of his 
experience. That sense of Columbus as known by and belonging to those who 
have followed him endures to our day, as in Anne Paolucci’s claim that 
“Columbus... is as American as Ellis Island” (2: 10). We have a cultural sense 
of the immigrant experience as an epochal historical event which Columbus 
began, and of the courage and hardship and humanity that are the price of the 
American dream. Such identification bespeaks a ready alliance and is the basis for 
a novelistic representation — yet to come — of Columbus as a sympathetic 
protagonist or hero, at once himself and symbolically engaging a wider sense of 
national experience — that is, important subject matter for the American 
historical novel. This identification with the Columbus “already known” endures 
despite both hagiology and various debunking trends, and it may well be that 


the world. 


230 Franklin C. Cacciutto 


only in his redoubtable and compelling popular importance will the 
Quincentennial spirit of Columbus transcend his chains. 

After more than thirty years of writing historical fiction, biography, 
history, screenplays and romance, Sabatini set forth his views on his art. Dekker 
observes, “Ever since Scott began publishing this new kind of novelistic fiction 
critics have worried about the mixture of ‘story’ and ‘history,’ about how remote 
from the present the setting of a novel must be for it to qualify as ‘historical,’ 
and about whether a historical novel must have at least one character — George 
Washington, for instance, or Al Capone — who once actually lived and made a 
name for himself in history” (13). Sabatini’s own formulation distinguishes 
three kinds of “period novels” by the nature of their materials: those which are 
essentially histories in their use of historical characters and events; those 
involving imaginary or transmuted characters but set “against a real background 
to which story and characters must bear some real and true relationship”; and 
those which melt “events that are reasonably and logically imagined, and 
characters that lived with characters that the author has invented” (Landrum 604). 
A compound of carefully researched historical fact and fictive historical romance, 
his Columbus would be a work combining aspects of each type, but particularly 
of the third.’ The archetypal pastoral structure of the first voyage comes clear in 
Sabatini’s romance, in which the voyage and return read as ritual action, and the 
life of Columbus about the loss and regaining of identity. His romance is, then, 
essentially a comedy in the generic sense, moving from a hero and heroine 
threatened by separation and denigration, to the success of Columbus and the 
implied reunion of the lovers. It is a comedy centered in irony and with satiric 
elements. Like the magic of Prospero in Shakespeare’s Tempest, Columbus’s 
discovery of the New World empowers the romantic to enjoy an ironic triumph 
over the ironic world. The brute realities of fifteenth century Spain are set 
against the fertile myth at the heart of the vision of Columbus of the return to or 
inception of a golden age of Christian civilization. Not only is Columbus 
animated by a humanist sense of the divine potential of man and of the world as 
intelligible, but in Isabella’s eyes he is realized as a Renaissance man. In a way 
true to the form of historical romance, much of the suspense of the novel results 
from a suspension of the love between Columbus and Beatriz as a result of his 
misconstruction of her shadowy involvement with corrupt political forces; he is 
too quick to distrust, compromised by his sense of her as compromised. Their 
extraction of their love from prevailing treachery has an allegorical significance, 


8 To Sabatini’s taxonomy of historical fiction, one might add the classification of “history as 
pastoral” which Shaw offers in The Forms of Historical Fiction. Shaw’s three categories are 
history as pastoral: novels in which history is used to illuminate present social problems; history as 
drama: history used to provide setting for a timeless story; and history as subject: historical milieu, 
great historical figure, and working of historical process itself form focus. For studies of narrative 
form in history writing and in literature, see Hayden White, Metahistory and The Content of the 
Form. 


History and Romance in R. Sabatini’s Columbus = 231 


symbolizing a romantic regard for Columbus as in spirit rising above the 
depredations of history. The conflict is between, on the one hand, intractable 
historical corruption and, on the other, heroic historical idealism shared by a man 
and a woman. Thus Columbus through the form of traditional historical romance 
rises above the chains of history. 

Much of Sabatini’s narrative of Columbus’s entrance to La Rabida follows 
Irving, but is deepened as historical fiction by a rich use of carefully researched 
period detail, the background against which he constructs the pious and proud 
presence of Columbus, “this meanly garbed stranger striding beside the Prior 
with the proud carriage of a prince” (8). The technique is that of nineteenth 
century historical realism, building background detail upon detail, enframing the 
action, evoking a sense of place and perspective depth. He describes the convent 
windows; the wine of Palos; the Vita et gesta of St. Francis; figs; half-withered 
apples; Malmsey, the heaviest and sweetest form of Madiera wine. The initial 
focus is on the Prior, and our first observations of Columbus are through his 
perceptive eyes. Columbus names himself “Cartaphilus” (10), the map lover, 
and he explains the etymological root of his name in “Christum ferens.” 
Sabatini uses the testing of Columbus as occasion to essay Ptolemy’s visions 
(11), the limits of logical inference, and the meaning of Marco Polo and Zipangu 
to the Quattrocento (12). Some of these details are provocative and suggest 
Sabatini’s position on the question of the rhetorical nature of the Journals and 
what Columbus actually knew; for example, Zipangu is “by no means the 
farthest limit of the Indies.” Similarly, Sabatini’s Columbus intuits the New 
World, but enjoins Frey Juan to “leave out of account my imagined lands, 
which would halve the distance” (14-16). Columbus, to impress upon his 
audience that he has the right stuff, suggests he is Portuguese: “I am from the 
Court of His Highness King John of Portugal, and on my way to France” (19). 
The calculation of Columbus in his presentation of himself rivals that of 
Toscanelli as a cosmographer “famous among cultured men as that of the 
greatest mathematician and physicist that had ever lived” (21). Columbus’s 
famous letter from Toscanelli becomes the most important plot element in 
Sabatini’s story. In contrast to the painful story of Columbus’s long trials at 
court, we have Pinzon’s instant enthusiasm and Fernandez’s measured regard for 
authority — embodiments of the currents of mind in Spain. Columbus’s uneasy 
alliance with Pinz6n (27) is established, as well as other personal and political 
tensions, such as the strain on the royal treasury which impeded royal approval 
of Columbus’s design. To the tragedy of Pinzén, Sabatini adds other important 
subplots to the story of Columbus, including that of Torquemada and the Jews, 
especially the Royal Treasurer, Don Alonso de Quintanilla, and the Chancellor 
of Aragon, Luis de Santangel. With Santangel there is a special confidence 
which Sabatini uses to permit his Columbus to admit to realizations which the 
official record, always circumspect and protective of the contract between 
Columbus and the Crown, does not contain. After his first voyage, he candidly 


232. Franklin C. Cacciutto 


admits to Santangel, “May I die if even now I know what I have discovered” 
(415). Columbus’s audience with Ferdinand and Isabella (30-33) follows Irving, 
focusing upon Isabella’s concern for the deliverance of the Holy Sepulchre and 
her strong attraction to Columbus, moved by his brave definition of faith as “the 
power to recognize by the inner light of inspiration those things of which the 
evidence is not tangible.” He meets and counters Ferdinand’s scepticism: ““This 
has more the sound of theology than cosmography” (31). Columbus answers, 
“All things are dreams before they become reality. The world itself was a dream 
before it was created, a dream in the mind of God” (32). The Inquisition looms; 
Columbus’s argument borders upon heresy: “you go perilously deep, sir”; 
Columbus stays his course: “it is my way, Sir Prior” (33). No question touches 
closer to the heart of historical romance than the question of faith, here less an 
issue of faith in God or faith in man, than of faith in faith itself. The voyage 
follows Irving’s narrative and the Journal, true to every sign, each “dreadful 
tempest” (333), and Pinzén’s folly. Columbus returns to a Te deum laudamus 
which echoes Irving’s narrative to our own time. This is factual historical 
fiction, sedulously faithful to historical sources, yet luminous with Sabatini’s 
personal ideas and feelings about Columbus. 

It is not a cult of the past which is expressed by the image of Columbus in 
chains, but rather an integral and permanent commitment to timeless values. The 
reemergence in literature and in history of the image of Columbus in chains in 
the early nineteenth century, just as the Industrial Revolution was getting 
underway, is an adoption of the meaning of the life of Columbus less in reaction 
to historical change than in the insistence upon the validity of medieval and 
chivalric values. In various genres, re-readings of the life of Columbus have been 
humanizing moments in a dehumanizing age. In Sabatini’s fiction, as perhaps in 
our popular grasp of the Columbus “already known,” the person Columbus 
prevails over any ambivalence we may have about the personage. “The lover is 
greater than the discoverer” (429), Santangel observes as Columbus, “gone like a 
whirlwind,” declines a royal triumph to reunite with Beatriz instead. 


Saint John’s University 


Works Cited 


Augustine, Saint. Confessions of Augustine. Ed. W. R. Connor and John Gibb. New 
York: Ayer Co. Publishers, 1979. 

Bartolomé de las Casas. Historia de las Indias. Edicién de Augustin Millares Carlo y 
estudio preliminar de Lewis Hawkes. Buenos Aires: Fondo de Cultura Economica, 
1951. 

Brooks, Van Wyck. The World of Washington Irving. Philadelphia: Blakiston, 


History and Romance in R. Sabatini’s Columbus —_ 233 


1944. 

Columbus, Christopher. The Journal. Trans. Cecil Jane. New York: Clarkston N. 
Potter, 1960. 

Columbus, Ferdinand. The Life of the Admiral Christopher Columbus. Trans. 
Benjamin Keen. New Brunswick: Rutgers UP, 1959. 

Columbus: Selected Papers on Columbus and His Time. Ed. Anne Paolucci and Henry 
Paolucci. Council on National Literatures. Whitestone, NY: Griffon House, 
1989: 

Dekker, George. The American Historical Romance. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 
1987. 

Fiedler, Leslie. Love and Death in the American Novel. Rev. ed. New York: Stein and 
Day, 1966. 

Fleishman, Avrom. The English Historical Novel: Walter Scott to Virginia Woolf. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1971. 

Hazlett, John D. “Literary Nationalism and Ambivalence in Washington Irving’s The 
Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus.” American Literature 55 (1983): 
560-75. 

Hedges, William L. “Irving’s Columbus: A Problem of Romantic Biography.” The 
Americas 13 (1956): 127-40. 

. Washington Irving: An American Study, 1802-1832. Baltimore: Johns 
Hopkins UP, 1965. 

Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich. “Aesthetics or the Philosophy of Fine Art.” Hegel: 
On the Arts. Abr., trans., introd. Henry Paolucci. New York: Frederick Unger, 
1979. 

. The Philosophy of History. Trans. J. Sibree. Introd. C. J. Fredrich. New 
York: Dover Books, 1956 

Hynes, Samuel. The Auden Generation: Literature and Politics in England in the 
1930's. New York: Viking, 1977. 

Irving, Washington. The Conquest of Granada. 2 vols. New York: Putnam’s, 1892. 

. The Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus. New York: Putnam’s, 
1868. 

Kerr, James. Fiction Against History: Scott as Storyteller. Cambridge: Cambridge 
UP; 1989. 

Landrum, Larry N. “Rafael Sabatini.” Twentieth-Century Romance and Gothic 
Writers. Ed. James Vinson. London: MacMillan, 1982. 

Lockhart, J. G. The Life of Sir Walter Scott. Introd. W. M. Parker. London: J. M. 
Dent, 1957. 

Lukacs, Georg. The Historical Novel. Trans. Hannah and Stanley Mitchell. London: 
Merlin, 1962. 

Macaulay, Thomas Babington. “Henry Neele’s The Romance History. Review. 
Edinburgh Review xlvii (May 1828): 365. 

MacNiece, Louis. Christopher Columbus: A Radio Play. London: Faber and Faber, 
1944, 

. Collected Poems. Ed. E. R. Dodds. New York: Oxford UP, 1967. 

McNeill, William H. “Debunking Columbus.” Rev. of The Conquest of Paradise: 
Christopher Columbus and the Columbian Legacy, by Kirkpatrick Sale. The New 
York Times Book Review 7 Oct. 1990: 28. 





234 Franklin C. Cacciutto 


Mellor, Anne K. English Romantic Irony. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1980. 
Morison, Samuel Eliot. Admiral of the Ocean Sea: A Life of Christopher Columbus. 
Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1942. 
. The European Discovery of America: the Southern Voyages, AD 1492- 
1616. New York: Oxford UP, 1974. 
Nunn, George E. The Geographical Conceptions of Columbus. New York: Farrar, 
Strauss and Giroux, 1977. 
O’Neill, Edward H. A History of American Biography, 1800- 1935. New York: 
Barnes, 1935. 
Paolucci, Anne. Cipango! Whitestone, NY: Gnffon House, 1985. 
. “Fact, Fiction, and Philology: A Reassessment of the Columbus Story.” 
Columbus: Selected Papers 7-15. 
Paolucci, Henry. “Columbus the ‘Christ Bearer’ (Christo-Ferens) and the Spanish 
‘Exodus’ of 1492.” Columbus: Selected Papers 42-52. 
Reed, Joseph W., Jr. English Biography in the Early Nineteenth Century: 1801- 
1835. New Haven: Yale UP, 1966. 
Sabatini, Raphael. Columbus: A Romance. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1942. 
. Heroic Lives. 1934. Freeport, NY: Books for Libraries Press, 1971. 
Sale, Kirkpatrick. The Conquest of Paradise: Christopher Columbus and the 
Columbian Legacy. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1990. 
Scott, Walter. “On the Present State of Historical Composition.” Ed. William Baker 
and J. H. Alexander. The Scott Newsletter 5 (Autumn 1984): 11-12. 
Shaw, Harry. The Forms of Historical Fiction: Sir Walter Scott and his Successors. 
Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1983. 
Tennyson, Alfred Lord. “Columbus.” Poetical Works. Boston: Houghton, 1899. 
. The Poems of Tennyson. Ed. Christopher Ricks. New York: Norton, 1972. 
White, Hayden. The Content of the Form: Narrative Discourse and Historical 
Representation. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1987. 
. Metahistory: The Historical Imagination in Nineteenth-Century Europe. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1973. 
Zabel, M. D. Introduction. Tales of Heroes and History. By Joseph Conrad. Garden 
City: Doubleday, 1960. 








The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Department of Romance languages 
237 Dey Hall, CB # 3170 
University of N. Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 


* 


Studies in the Romance Languages and Literatures 
Maria A. Salgado, Editor 


Recent Titles 
Kathleen Hunt Dolan. Cyclopean Song: Melancholy and 
Aestheticism in Géngora’s “Fabula de Polifemo y Galatea.” 
Bridget Aldaraca. El dngel del hogar: Galdés and the Ideology of 
Domesticity in Spain. 
J. Kozma-Southall. The Architecture of Imagery in A. Moravia’s 
Fiction (forthcoming). 


* 
Hispanofila 
Fred M. Clark, Editor 


Hispanéfila appears three times each year, publishing articles 
and book reviews on Hispanic and Luzo-Brazilian topics. 
Rates: $21.00; students: 8.00. 


* 


Romance Notes 
Edward Montgomery, Editor 


Romance Notes appears three times each year, publishing notes 
from 6-8 pages on all Romance topics. Notes are published in 
English, Catalan, French, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. In 
recent years, most submissions have been on French and Spanish 
topics. We encourage submissions on subjects dealing with other 
Romance languages, especially Italian and Portuguese. 
Rates: $18.00; students: 8:00 


Thomas Heck 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus: 
Three Hundred Years of Musical Mythology 


The earliest surviving opera, Euridice, set to music by Jacopo Peri (Florence, 
1600), tells the story of a mythic voyage — Orpheus’s crossing the river Styx 
to retrieve his beloved Eurydice from the underworld.! Not only was this “favola 
in musica” precedent-setting in its conception and its musical realization, but 
also in the way that it took liberties with the story line: “The alteration of 
Ovid’s story so that Orpheus retrieves Eurydice from Hades without conditions, 
and thus without loss, is the start of a permissive attitude towards source 
material that remains characteristic of opera librettos throughout the 17th century 
and beyond” (Walker 551). 

In certain respects the perilous “ocean sea” in Columbus’s day was as 
awesome and myth-shrouded as the river Styx: no one had ever crossed to the 
other side and returned alive to tell about it. Yet it took nearly a century after the 
invention of opera (and hence two centuries after Columbus’s first voyage) for 
composers and librettists to elevate the saga of the Genoese navigator to operatic 
proportions. 

When Columbus operas finally did begin to appear, as one might expect, 
they were the occasion for musico-poetic license on a legendary scale. Their 
librettists took huge liberties with source material, filling in with unbridled 
fantasy the sketchy details of the Admiral’s life that might have been known to 
them. Pietro Cardinal Ottoboni, in the preface of the published libretto to the 
first Columbus opera, his Colombo overo I'India scoperta, admitted as much: 
“Con un misto d’Istoria, & invenzione si conduce a fine il Dramma” (Pradelini, 
p. A3). 

The public’s acceptance of plot liberties in 19th-century Italy was not much 
different from what it had been earlier, if the following remark, from a review of 
Morlacchi’s 1828 opera Colombo, is any indication. In praising the librettist 
Felice Romani, the critic writes: 


Ma un merito singolare gli appartiene in quest’Opera per l’arte con cui seppe superare 
le molte difficolta del soggetto, e pel modo ingegnoso con cui riusci a interessarvi 
una finzione che punto non nuoce alla storia, ma bensi la ravviva col grato prestigio 


1 Greek mythology was extremely popular as a subject of early operas; along with Greek and 
Roman history, mythological topics remained fashionable for roughly the first two centuries of the 
genre’s existence, that is, from circa 1595 to 1795. 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 237 


d’un interesse drammatico. 
(Gazzetta di Genova 25 June 1828; qtd. Gamberini 3:25). 


As we can see, there was always a place in Italian opera for a fictitious 
“finzione,” an intrigue that could heighten dramatic interest and provide 
predicaments for musical reflection in the form of arias — the very raison d’étre 
of opera, in the minds of many. 


Toward a bibliography of the Columbian operas 


The quest to bring Columbus’s operatic legacy under intellectual control is a 
story in itself. By a combination of both traditional (“print”) bibliographic 
method and contemporary information retrieval using databases such as OCLC 
and RLIN, it is now (1992) possible to compile a “paper trail” of dozens of 
published operas, ballets, cantatas, and the like, but also to discern a good half- 
dozen serious attempts during the last century, either in book or in article form, 
to do what the present article seeks to do, namely to identify and survey the 
operas inspired by Columbus — of which, incidentally, the majority (some 
twenty) were Italian — in as comprehensive a way as possible. 

It appears that a Genoese university librarian, Piero Carboni, was the first 
scholar to publish a substantial book on the question. His Cristoforo Colombo 
nel teatro appeared in 1892, evidently a contribution to the Italian 
quadricentennial observances of the discovery of the New World. Carboni, whose 
proper title was “‘Vice-Bibliotecario dell’ Universita di Genova,” cast his net wide, 
considering Columbus in all the performing arts. Arguably he stretched his 
bounds too far with his allusion to “tre bellissime ottave alla scoperta 
dell’ America” in Tasso’s Gerusalemme liberata. Be that as it may, good old- 
fashioned 19th-century bibliographers usually wrote with a much greater sense of 
style — and frequently with more apparent delight in their topics — than their 
more recent counterparts. Carboni was no exception; he is still both informative 
and fun to read. 

His nine-chapter book is organized not according to the various theatrical 
genres, but biographically, according to the major episodes in Columbus’s life. 
Thus he uses his first chapter, dealing with Columbus’s youth in Genoa, to cite 
Giovanni Battista Polleri’s little-known one-act children’s opera Colombo 
fanciullo, published in Florence in 1892.7 And in his sixth chapter, on 
Columbus’s second and third voyages, the latter ending with the Admiral being 
brought back to Spain under arrest and in chains, Carboni alludes appropriately 


2 The piano-vocal score was published by G. Venturini with plate no. 5680. It is cited in the RLIN 
database and National Union Catalogue, pre-1956 imprints. It was somehow overlooked by the 
formidable Franz Stieger, whose Opernlexikon is perhaps the granddaddy of all compendia on 
opera and related works. 


238 Thomas Heck 


to Tristan L’Hermite’s drama, Colomb dans les fers. 

Carboni makes much of the discovery itself, as reflected in his chapters 3 
and 4. The author discusses Félicien David’s oratorio-like Christophe Colomb; 
ou, La découverte du nouveau monde, ode symphonique en quatre parties, of 
1847, with genuine interest (93-101). He also transcribes for posterity the entire 
argument of an anonymous musical play — possibly an opera whose score has 
never been found: “Il Colombo, Dramma rappresentato nel Collegio de SS. 
Geronimo e Francesco Saverio della Compagnia di Gest in Genova I’anno 1708” 
(194-209). Whether this plot summary was originally a latter-day commedia 
dell’ arte with music, of which only a printed scenario remains, or an opera of 
which only a synopsis survives, is an open question. Stieger considered it an 
opera; Carboni calls it evidence of an improvised comedy in the Italian tradition. 

Whatever the case, Carboni does succeed in identifying what is still today 
believed to be the earliest Columbus opera, Colombo, ovvero I’ India scoperta, 
premiered in Rome at the Tor di Nona theater in 1691 (Figure 1). He attributes 
it, half-correctly, to one [Crateo] Pradelini, without realizing that this name is an 
anagram for “Pietro Cardinale,” i.e., the wealthy and prolific Cardinal Pietro 
Ottoboni, nephew of Pope Alexander VIII.? Ottoboni was born in Venice in 
1667 and elevated to cardinal at the tender age of twenty-two, which would have 
been at about the time he penned his naive, youthful opera libretto. 

Until recently we were not certain who composed the music.* Mercedes 
Viale Ferrero was among the first to publish an attribution to Bernardo Pasquini 
(1637-1710),° a noted keyboard virtuoso and composer of no fewer than 15 
operas, active in the circle of literati and composers in Rome known as the 
Arcadian academy. Other members of the academy included Arcangelo Corelli and 
Alessandro Scarlatti; all three were patronized regularly by Ottoboni, who was 
also an Arcadian.® 

Despite the excellent musical resources at Ottoboni’s disposal, both in 
composition and performance, fate did not deal kindly with this particular 
operatic endeavor at its premiere. A contemporary observer, the Marquis de 
Coulanges (1633-1713),’ described the opera’s unfortunate initial run, marred by 


3 He is also the subject of a biographical study by Baroni with the unflattering title Un conformista 
del secolo diciottesimo: il cardinale Pietro Ottoboni. 

Marx, in his “Ottoboni, Pietro” entry in The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, 

wrote: “Despite assertions to the contrary, he [Ottoboni] is not known to have composed music 
himself." 
5 Ferrero, Storia dell’ opera italiana, pt. 2, vol. 5 (1988): 64. I am grateful to Prof. Robert Stevenson 
for bringing this attribution to my attention, and to Prof. Malena Kuss for the reference to the 
appropriate volume and page of the work in question. Music librarians Daniel Zager and Robert 
Johnson assisted by sending confirming faxes of the pages in question. Prof. Jiirgen Maehder has 
traced the Pasquini attribution back to G. F. Crain’s Yale dissertation, The Operas of Bernardo 
Pasquini (1965). 

Harper, “Pasquini, Bernardo,” The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians. 

7 Philippe Emmanuel Marquis de Coulanges, Mémoires de m. de Coulanges, suivis de lettres 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 239 


an outbreak of the plague, in these terms: 


Aprés diverses représentations des deux petits opéra des neveux du pape, qui réussirent 
assez, le grand opéra. . . tant attendu parut enfin sur le théatre public de Torre di Nona. 
Mais jamais opéra ne surprit davantage; jamais sujet ne fut plus ridicule ni plus mal 
imaginé. C’était Christophe Colomb qui, en courant les mers, devient passionément 
amoureux de sa propre femme. Jamais piéce ne fut plus ennuyeuse, par n’étre pas 
méme soutenue d’aucun air qui put faire plaisir. . . Nous ne laissames pas cependant de 
voir plusieures fois ce maudit spectacle plutét par oisiveté que par godt; mais il ne 
dura pas long-temps, . . . car effectivement un bruit de peste, qui vint du cété de 
Naples, obligea Rome de prendre les précautions ordinaires pour s’en garantir.® 


Nor has history smiled benevolently on the work. Upon reading the published 
libretto of Colombo, Carboni was moved to write: “& veramente una ben povera 
cosa” (226). And after describing the plot in disbelief, he added with 
philosophical resignation: 


E si comprende: il buon gusto ancora non c’era, a quei tempi, e quello che a noi 
sembra oggi grottesco e peggio, allora era bello e interessante. Cosi va il mondo, e 
cosi va il teatro. 

(231)? 


Opera as a genre mercifully underwent many needed reforms (notably libretto 
reforms) in the course of the 18th century. During this “age of enlightenment,” 
the not-quite-mythic and somewhat enigmatic figure of Columbus evidently was 
not regarded as a suitable topic for either opera seria or the new rage, opera buffa. 
The only staged musical work that Carboni was able to reference for the whole 
of that century was a musical farce by Vincenzo Fabrizi, J] Colombo, o la 
scoperta delle Indie, produced at Rome during the 1788 carnival season.!° 

Staying a moment longer with Carboni, we find him next devoting a few 
pages to Francesco Morlacchi’s two-act opera, J] Colombo, commissioned for 





inédites de madame de Sévigné, de son fils, de l'abbé de Coulanges... (Paris: J.J. Blaise, 1820). 
8 As cited in Ademollo (182-83). Coulanges quotes, in tum, a trenchant response in verse to the 
opera by the Duc de Nevers: “Nous avons eu ce cameval/ Une piéce trés exécrable,/ Faite par 
Ottobon, poéte détestable,/ Mais, en revanche, un heureux cardinal!/ Quel opéra maudit . . . / Que 
les transports jaloux de sa femme et de lui/ Font une triste scéne!/ Que d’entendre toujours 
chevroter leur ennui/ M’a causé de mal et de peine!" 
9 Carboni had no access to the score; he based his remarks solely on the libretto. A reevaluation of 
the opera may be in the wind, however, since the University of Maryland opera theater produced 
a fine lab performance of it in the spring of 1992 (excerpts of which I was able to hear on tape, 
when they were shared by Robert Stevenson with those attending a Library of Congress 
symposium, “An Ongoing Voyage: Music,” June 4-5, 1992). 

This work was described as a “farsa a cinque voci per musica.” It played at the Teatro 
Capranica, according to Stieger. Carboni reported being unsuccessful in finding a copy of its 
libretto. 


240 Thomas Heck 


the June 1828 opening of Genoa’s Teatro Carlo Felice. It was called a 
“melodramma serio” (Fig. 2).!! It was one of the last works that Morlacchi 
wrote,!? but not one of his more felicitous accomplishments, if Carboni is to be 
believed: “Ma il successo manco. La musica fu giudicata dotta: che & quanto dire 
noiosa; piacque agli intelligenti, al pubblico no” (239). Carboni was aware of 
three other composers who set the same Felice Romani libretto: Luigi Ricci at 
Parma in 1830, Vincenzo Mela at Verona in 1857, and Felicita Casella at Nice 
in 1865.'3 In addition to these, Carboni cites the following other settings of 
Columbus operas, but without explaining how he knew of their existence: 


— Il Colén, music by Ramon Carnicer, presented in Madrid in 1831 and Barcelona in 
1838; 

— G. B. Sangiorgio-Rabiti’s Colombo staged in Parma in 1840; 

— Colombo, by V. Penco, premiered in Genoa in 1883; 

— Angiolini Gaspare’s La scoperta dell’ America (Torino, 1857); 

— Ultima ora, a dramatic scene for tenor and chorus, music by Luigi Galli (Milano, 
1891); 

— Colombo alla scoperta delle Indie, by Vincenzo Fioravanti; 

— Carlo Barbieri’s Colombo, presented in Berlin, 26 December 1848; 

— Colombo by Giovanni Bottesini, premiered at the Teatro Tacon of Havana, 1846. 


The bibliographic trail of Columbus operas was widened somewhat in the 
next generation with an article by Alberto de Angelis, published in Italian in 
1927 and in Spanish in Buenos Aires in 1930. He not only brought to public 
attention the anagram on Cardinal Ottoboni’s name, but also for the first time 
cited the account of the 1691 opera’s poor initial reception in Rome, recorded as 
we have seen by the Marquis de Coulanges. 

The next student of Columbus’s musical legacy was a Portuguese, Alfredo 
Pinto, whose Cristovado Colombo (estudo musical), of 1934, was but one of 
several such “estudos” that he produced in praise of famous people.!* Pinto’s 


1] The libretto is entitled COLOMBO, Melodramma Serio. . . . The librettist, Felice Romani, is 
named at the conclusion of the “Proemio dell’ Autore,” iii-ix. Only in a note at the bottom of page 
x, after the cast of the first performance is given, do we find a composer attribution: “La musica é 
composta espressamente dal Sig. Cav. Francesco Morlacchi, primo Maestro di Cappella di S. M. il 
Re di Sassonia.” The opera was, in fact, staged in Dresden the following year, as this libretto 
confirms: Columbus. Historisches Melodramm in zwei Aufziigen fiir das Kéngl. Sdchsische Theater 
yrenden: s.e., 1829). COPY DCLC, Schatz collection. 

2A complete list of Morlacchi operas appears in Hartwig, “Morlacchi, Francesco (Giuseppe 
Baldassare),” The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians. 

3 tt is unclear whether the composer’s name was Caselli (Carboni) or Casella (Stieger). No trace 
of any other work attributed to her has been found. Carboni failed to identify these other settings of 
the Romani libretto: Carnicer, 1831; Gambini, 1845; Bottesini, 1847; Barbieri, 1848; and Marcora, 
1869. See bibliography by date for details. 

4 Others whom he so honored included S. Francisco d’ Assis (1927), Joanna d’ Arc (1917), and 
even Vasco da Gama (1925). 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 241 


one-page summary of music inspired by Columbus (Fig. 3) misses Ottoboni, 
since it begins with the Fabrizi comic opera (farce) of 1788, // Colombo, o la 
scoperta delle Indie. It goes on to mention sixteen other known or suspected 
compositions on the life of Columbus, supplying precious little by way of 
particulars, even in the narrative portions of his text. 

Eighteen years later, in 1951, Giuliano Balestri published an article on 
Columbus-inspired music, stating categorically, if without grounds, that Pietro 
Ottoboni was both “compositore” and “‘librettista” of the 1691 opera Colombo o 
L’ India scoperta. Balestri also related how Verdi was originally asked to accept a 
commission from the City of Genoa to compose an “1892” opera on Columbus, 
but had to refuse due to other obligations. The commission eventually found its 
way to Alberto Franchetti, who produced a very successful opera for the 400th 
anniversary of the discovery of America. It was premiered in Genoa at the Teatro 
Carlo Felice, 5 Oct. 1892, and had a nine-evening initial run. When the original 
conductor, Mancinelli, was suddenly indisposed after the first performance, a 
young man named Arturo Toscanini was waiting in the wings: 


Alla seconda rappresentazione, per improvvisa indisposizione del maestro 
Mancinelli assume la direzione d’orchestra Arturo Toscanini, il quale fa “strabiliare", 
perché, in una notte, riesce ad apprendere la nuovissima opera e a dirigerla a memoria. 
(Balestri 35) 


Balestri went on to describe briefly other pre-1950 Columbus operas by 
such composers as Darius Milhaud (1930) and Werner Egk (1942). But it would 
not be until 1964 that another book dealing explicitly (if not exclusively) with 
operas on Columbus would see the light of day. H. Earle Johnson’s Operas on 
American Subjects features, in an Index of Topics and Locales, the discoverer of 
America along with such other Americana as “race relations” and “Salem, 
Massachusetts.” 

Johnson’s thirty-two known or suspected Columbus-opera entries, in 
alphabetical (not chronological) order, clearly show how he benefited from 
Sonneck’s earlier pathbreaking bibliographic work at the Library of Congress. 
Yet they still contain a good half-dozen references which are so vague as to merit 
only a place in the Appendix of the present checklist. 

In 1970, about six years after Johnson’s work appeared, the first 
bibliographic utility (OCLC) came on-line, and with it music bibliography was 
changed forever. In the last twenty-two years over 25 million bibliographic 
records have been added to OCLC, many millions to RLIN, and an ambitious 
RISM Libretto Project has been organized in the United States to catalog in 
exhaustive detail the major collections of opera libretti in this country. As a 
result, full-text searches of terms like “Colombo,” “Colon” and “Columbus” 
paired with “oper-” have become possible for the first time. 

The chronological bibliography concluding this article is an example of 


242 Thomas Heck 


what can be done when New World technology and searching skills are applied to 
essentially an Old World bibliographic problem. For the first time, credible 
citations and references to library locations are available for fourteen published 
(and five unpublished) opera scores, and thirteen published (and two typescript) 
opera libretti, all directly related to Columbus.!5 We have also identified, by way 
of contextual information which is far from exhaustive, seventeen 
cantatas/oratorios/choruses, seven instrumental pieces, and eight plays with 
music relating to the Admiral. 

Thanks to on-line newspaper databases, it has been possible for several years 
to retrieve, at will, such information as the names of the composer (Philip 
Glass), librettist (David Henry Hwang), and the title of a Columbus opera not 
yet produced (as this article goes to press): “The Voyage,” commissioned by the 
Met for its fall 1992 season. 

As regards the operas and musicals so far not located (and apparently never 
published), we are not much better off today in our efforts to document them 
than we might have been in Carboni’s era. Of the two dozen “opera references” 
uncovered in this retrospective, about half are carried in the checklist as probably 
credible, and half in the appendix as problematic. Slow progress is being made in 
indexing the 19th-century music periodicals — the very sources that so often 
informed Stieger and Schatz, the prime purveyors of these “references.”!® But 
how much can one expect when dealing with reports of unpublished operas? 
Historically, relatively few operas ever made it into print, let alone past their 
initial performances. This circumstance should not exclude their being noted, at 
least, in a study of this nature. 


Three Italian “Colombo” opera synopses: “mitologia all’ italiana” 


1) The Ottoboni libretto (1690) 

Ottoboni’s implausible 1690 libretto, J Colombo, overo I’ India scoperta, begins 
with Columbus’s fourth voyage (May 1502), during which it was known that he 
landed on terra firma — the South American continent. Ottoboni imagines that 


15 The published scores would be: 1828 (Morlacchi, excerpts), 1857 (Mela), 1892 (Franchetti), 
1892 (Polleri), 1892 (Pratt), 1893 (Llanos y Alcaraz), 1920 (Soutullo Otero), 1927 (Dressel), 1930 
(Milhaud), 1939 (Zador), 1942 (Egk), 1953 (Nielsen), 1976 (Offenbach), and 1986 (Balada). The 
unpublished scores so far are 1691 (Pasquini), 1831 (Camicer), 1991 (Gamberini), 1992 (Glass) 
and 1992 (Michal). The published libretti would be 1691 (Ottoboni), 1815 
(Darondeau/Pixérécourt), 1828 (Morlacchi/Romani), 1829 (Ricci/Romani), 1848 
(Barbieri/Romani), 1859 (Beckel), 1883 (Penco/?), 1892 (Franchetti/Illica), 1893 (Caryll/Sims & 
Raleigh), 1905 (Stayner), 1927 (Dressel), 1930 (Milhaud/Claudel), and 1981 (Van 
Fossen/Swortzell). So far the unpublished libretti would be 1992 (Hwang) and 1992 (Staiger). 

© The works of both authors are cited in the checklist that concludes this essay. The RIPM 
project, Repertoire International de la Presse Musicale, is well under way, complemented by such 
indexes as Gamberini, La vita musicale europea del 1800: archivio musicale genovese. 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 243 


the Admiral has reached “Peru,” just off the “Citta di Motenzuma [sic], Capitale 
delle Riuiere Occidentali.” Columbus’s fictitious wife Anarda is with him, as is 
his son Fernando. 

In Act I, they set off toward shore in a long boat, with trumpeters (Fig. 4), 
which gives occasion for an “Aria con tromba", sung by Fernando. They are 
soon surrounded by “Mostri” and “Donzelle, orride in parte, e belle.” Columbus 
recognizes the sea creatures as “Sirene infide” whose song lulls mortals to sleep 
and lures them to their doom; he sings of his own kinship to Ulysses. 

A group of water-borne sirens surrounds the skiff (Scene 2), causing Anarda 
to fall asleep. Cries of “a battaglia, a battaglia” ring out (imagine here the 
trumpets and drums!), and a fight begins. In Scene 3 the goddess Fortuna 
descends from above, in a wheel (what would high Baroque opera be without at 
least one such divine intervention via a mechanical descent?) and orders a truce, 
dismissing the sea creatures on the grounds that the “memory” of Columbus to 
future generations demands his safe passage. 

The scene changes to Indian Emperor Ginacra’s council chamber, where he 
warns the noble savages gathered of a “grave, e novo cimento,” and seeks their 
advice. Their long and inconclusive reply (a chorus) alludes to Jove (!) sustaining 
the merciful. Prince Guascar, who loves Ginacra’s daughter, Tendilla, is 
dispatched to observe the foreigners. 

Meanwhile, back by the shore, Columbus and Anarda sing of their mutual 
love, ending in a duet. Fernando now enters, singing that he has been smitten 
with love for the native princess Tendilla. Presently Columbus’s servant, 
Giumbé, enters with two live camels burdened with Columbus’s gifts to the 
Emperor of Peru. The Europeans unload the camels, each taking a gift, and with 
these create a ballet. Monkeys in the trees “ape” the behavior of the Europeans, 
joining in the dance intermezzo that ends Act I. 

In Act II, Emperor Ginacra falls in love with Anarda. Colombo, entering 
and hearing Ginacra’s protestations, seeks to explain to Ginacra the difference 
between “Amor giusto” and “‘ingiusto,” but this lesson is lost on the Emperor, 
who insists on having Anarda come to his city. Colombo and Anarda reflect on 
their predicament; they exit. Tendilla and Guascar have an unrequited love scene, 
each with an aria, then a duet. 

In the temple courtyard we see a flat altar on which no idols rest. Giumbé 
leads Anarda in for a “‘sacrifice.” She sings of her marital fidelity with the aria 
“Catene adorate.”!7 Ginacra has her placed standing on the altar (Fig. 5) and 
offers her his heart. When she declines, he gets angry and decides Anarda is a 
devil, not a goddess after all, and has her chained and thrown into prison. 

Back at the ship, Colombo has a solo scene of anger and determination. 
Fernando sympathizes, and decides to run off and try to defend his mother. 
Giumbé, the native interpreter, then enters to announce that Emperor Ginacra 


17 Pre-Columbian cultures did not have iron or chains. 


244 Thomas Heck 


wishes to see the many “gallant styles of dress” among the foreigners who have 
come. A procession of Europeans enters; they exhibit “tutte le novita.. . 
pennacchietti sul cappello .. . nastri... .” At the intermezzo ending Act II we 
see — what else? — “Varie nazione europee vestite alla loro moda .. . in ballo.” 

Act III opens with Anarda chained to a rock in a horrid prison. Columbus 
steals in, sings a small da capo aria, then is advised by Giumbé, the guard, to go 
hide on the roof of the prison. There he observes Emperor Ginacra, who enters 
with lanterns to check on Anarda. She convinces him that he should fight 
Columbus in mortal combat for her hand. Anarda’s chains are removed, Ginacra 
sings an exit aria and departs. After watching this in disbelief, Columbus leaps 
down to the stage, tumbling with Anarda to the ground.!® In a duet with Anarda, 
he accuses her of infidelity (“Ecco morto il Colombo . . .”). But she explains her 
clever plan to wear Columbus’s armor and fight the emperor herself, thereby 
sparing Columbus’s life and assuring him of her fidelity to the end, no matter 
what the outcome. 

After several more scenes between Fernando, Tendilla, and Prince Guascar, 
Columbus ponders his situation and decides to offer himself in disguise as a 
surrogate to fight for the Emperor. He dispatches Giumbé as an intermediary to 
arrange this. 

The scene changes to a fenced arena with pavilions and bleachers. Anarda, 
disguised as Columbus and with a half-closed helmet,!? enters and invokes her 
spouse’s blessing. Columbus, plumed and bearing Ginacra’s royal standard, 
enters majestically from the other side, visor closed (Fig. 6). Anarda closes hers; 
they start swinging at each other, singing the duet “Che tormento.. .,” “Che 
furore . . .,” (then, together) “Io mi sento dentro il core.””° 

Columbus is knocked down by a blow to his side. He declares, “Amico, hai 
vinto,” and lies wounded, motionless. Anarda vaunts her victory by boldly 
raising her visor and her opponent’s. She is stunned to see Columbus lying 
wounded at her feet. She exclaims, “Che vedi Anarda? Oh’ Dio!” 

Ginacra, outraged, cries for revenge against the person who lost in his stead; 
Giumbé weakly declares, “Il negozio é andato male.” But once the identities and 
goals of the combatants are made clear, Ginacra has a change of heart and restores 
Anarda to Columbus. The latter now starts to move, rises, and joins Anarda in a 
love duet. 

In the closing scene, Tendilla tells her father that she wishes to “tie the 


18 The stage directions read, “ .. . si getta [sic] il Colombo dall’alto delle Carceri in terra a’ piedi 
della Moglie, che nel raccorlo fra le braccia impedisce la forza della caduta, ambidue 
prcompitands in terra” (73). 

9 Not as implausible as one might think, considering that the role of Anarda would have been 
taken by a male soprano (castrato). 

It is most unlikely that they would have sung this duet with full visors closed. The frontispiece to 

Act III (Fig. 6) suggests that they were unmasked, possibly facing the audience instead of each 
other. 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 245 


eternal knot,” but can’t bear to choose between Prince Guascar and Columbus’s 
son, Fernando. Ginacra awards Guascar to Tendilla in the end; Fernando sings the 
final aria, “Se Virttii cimenta un core / La Vittoria ancor gli da./ Non é bello mai 
l’onore,/ Se pugnando no si fa;/ Se Virt & c. [Da Capo]... .” 


ii) The Romani libretto (1828) 

Columbus’s fourth voyage, during which he was, in fact, stranded in Jamaica, is 
the setting of Romani’s libretto. As Act I opens, two “Cacico” Indians, Zamoro, 
from “Aiti” (= Haiti) and Jarico, of Jamaica’s Maima tribe, are joined by a 
chorus of Indians singing about how the enemy Spaniards have terrorized the 
natives of the islands. Zamoro declares his love for Jarico’s daughter, Zilia. The 
Indian tribes depart, swearing death to the Spaniards. Alone, Zamoro and Jarico 
continue singing, the latter commenting on the horrible death that his tribe 
imposes on traitors. 

Hunters and huntresses now appear, accompanied by Zilia, who sings of her 
benevolence toward strangers. She stays with Zamoro and Jarico as the hunters 
depart. Her father now announces to her that she is to be the wife of Zamoro, and 
thereby to form an alliance with the Haitians against the Spaniards. She protests, 
but is silenced by Jarico. She sings of her love for another — one from the East, 
who will defend her against the cunning Zamoro: “Di te pit forte/ L’ispana 
sorte,/ Sapra difendermi/ Dal tuo furor.” 

The scene changes to Columbus and his crew in their fortified, beached 
ships at the water’s edge. The crew sings of despair at not being able to leave, or 
of ever being rescued. Columbus exhorts them to trust in God’s plan, and wait 
for the Cuban garrison to send relief. Then strange music is heard (“suon de’ 
barbari stromenti") as Indian women appear from the woods bearing food; the 
soldiers quickly exchange trinkets for the food. There is dancing, and Fernando 
(Columbus’s son) appears, looking pleased. Zilia approaches him, to warn him 
to flee with her now, before nightfall, to avert a disaster; Fernando declines. 
After an ardent love duet, he grasps Zilia and brings her into the Castilian camp. 

As evening falls, we see Indians with Jarico in a clearing near the Spanish 
stronghold. As they pray for victory, cannon shots ring out in the distance. 
Presently Zamoro and his warriors enter with a tale of a surprise attack by 
Columbus and his men, who were forewarned. Shortly thereafter Columbus and 
his soldiers appear, ordering the Indians to surrender or die. They refuse. Zilia 
then throws herself between the warring factions, begging to be killed in place of 
the others. The Indians denounce her as a traitor and step back. In an ensemble 
chorus, they call for her death, while the Spaniards call for mercy for Zilia. 
Columbus again threatens the Indians with devastation, and the act ends on a 
note of general consternation. 

In Act II, which opens in Columbus’s quarters, a head count reveals that the 
admiral’s son, Fernando, is missing. Presently a delegation of Indians led by 
Zamoro appears, offering to exchange Fernando for Zilia. Columbus refuses, 


246 Thomas Heck 


having given his word to defend Zilia (“Io promisi alla vergine oppressa/ Nel 
mio campo difesa e sostegno”). Zamoro warns Columbus that the funeral chant 
is being sung already, and Fernando will be sacrificed. Columbus declares that 
this innocent blood will not be shed. Zamoro states that the moon rising that 
very night will bear witness to his death. Columbus counters that the moon 
itself will be extinguished, bringing death to all the Maima: 


Guai tre volte! Guai per voi! ... 
Saran morti i raggi suoi, 

E la pallida sua faccia 

D’atro vel si coprira. 


The scene changes to the Indian village, where the prisoner Fernando is 
singing a lament. As the chieftains are about to lead him away, suddenly Zilia 
appears, imploring that they shed her blood instead of his. She is seized and 
Fernando is sent away, despairing. Zamoro is put in charge of Zilia. He sings of 
his continuing love for her, and offers to let her escape with him to distant 
shores. She refuses. To the sound of funeral chanting, she is led away to the 
sacrificial grotto. As the moon slowly rises, a lengthy ritual of judgments upon 
Zilia, invocations, and farewells unfolds. 

As Zilia begs a final pardon, Columbus, Fernando, and the Spaniards arrive 
and order a halt to the sacrifice. When challenged by the natives, Columbus 
orders the moon to withdraw her light, and the lunar eclipse begins. Choruses of 
stunned reactions on the part of both Indians and Spanish ensue, Zilia and the 
Spaniards singing ““Dipende da questo/ Momento funesto/ La pace, la vita,/ La 
speme, l’amor.” 

Unconvinced, Zamoro again calls for the sacrifice, but Columbus condemns 
his barbarity. At that moment cannons are heard in the distance, and a Spanish 
fleet is seen arriving. This finally persuades the Indians, who submit and stand in 
solemn witness as Columbus, reinforced by the newly arriving Spanish troops, 
plants both the flag and the cross with these words: 


E tu popolo feroce, 

Tu redento dall’error, 

Ti ripara all’alma Croce, 
Vieni all’ombra dell’amor. 


iti) The Illica libretto (1892) 

Act I of Illica’s opera (set in 1487) opens in the courtyard of St. Stephen’s 
convent in Salamanca. Soldiers sing disparagingly of how the queen is 
protecting Columbus. Trumpets announce the arrival of the court counselors, led 
by Cardinal Talavera; they process into the chamber. Three pious pilgrims 
(“Romei”) then appear, their destination Jerusalem, and people beg them to sing 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 247 


“the ancient legends.” They sing of a vision of a holy man taking a long sea 
voyage, who discovers a resplendent shore (“Un lido d’or . . . fiammeggiante di 
gemme....”). 

The cynical Don Roldano Ximenes, confidant of the queen’s confessor 
(Talavera), ridicules their folly and sings an aria of the terrors of the sea: 
monsters, and certain death. This sways the people back to his side. Then the 
counselors emerge from their chamber singing a hymn, their business done. The 
crowd calls for Columbus, and when he appears somberly at the door, they 
comically mock his theory of a round world: 


La cosa é manifesta 
ognuno omai ci crede! 

Un popolo ha la testa 

ove un popolo ha il piede! 


Guevara, captain of the queen’s guards, now enters and reprimands the crowd 
for making noise while the queen is praying. They piously disperse; Columbus 
thanks Guevara for his rescue. In a solo scene, Columbus sings of his deep 
despair, dropping his head into his hands. Just then he hears the angelic voice of 
Queen Isabella, whose aria, “Dalle serene plaghe dei cieli,” soothes Columbus. 
He and she meet and have a musical dialogue, in which she confides in him her 
dream of his finding a glorious distant shore across the ocean. Act I ends with an 
inspiring duet, during which she gives him her diadem to purchase the ship he 
will require. 

Act II moves us to 1492, aboard the Santa Maria, the Pinta visible in the 
background. Matheos, a surly first mate, curses the wind blowing them to an 
uncertain fate. From the Pinta, the three pilgrims (“Romei”) are heard singing 
their faithful refrain. Matheos, back on the Santa Maria, terrifies his crew with 
accounts of how the ship’s compass is deviating. Rolando knocks on the 
Admiral’s door to alert him to the grumbling crew’s anxieties. He responds with 
a reassuring aria (“Error fatale - che la stella polare sia securo segnale. . . .”), 
explaining that the north star itself is not fixed, but rather fickle like a human 
lover. This pacifies the crew . . . until they fetch a broken mast from the sea. 
Roldano uses this as an occasion once again to undermine the crew’s confidence. 

As the Santa Maria rotates on stage, the crew disappears and Columbus is 
left alone on the poop deck, where he sings a soliloquy of doubt, then of hope. 
Soon bells toll, calling the crew to evening prayer. Three Dominican friars lead 
the crew in a “Salve Regina.” At the same time, sotto voce, Roldano conspires 
with several knights to mutiny. The insurrection begins just as the friars finish 
their hymn. As the crew are about to seize Columbus, he looks off into the 
distance, causing others to do the same. They soon spy land; a cannon is heard 
from the Pinta. Columbus and the friars sing a “Gloria in excelsis Deo!” 


248 Thomas Heck 


Act III (1503) is set near Xaragua, on the banks of a sacred lake.”! A fleeing 
Indian, wounded, is pursued by greedy Spanish soldiers. He falls; his daughter 
Yanika tries to help him, but it is too late; she curses the Spaniards, who retire. 
Her call for help is answered by a large group of Indians who arrive as the 
wounded man dies. They surround Yanika and commence their funeral chant. 
Some warrior Indians (“cacichi’) call for blood revenge. 

Queen Anacoana arrives on a bamboo boat, her retinue singing and fanning 
her. She looks at the body; the Indians again call for revenge. She says “No! The 
time is not right.” The old men (“Vecchi”) remind her gravely of how much 
harm the Spaniards have already done. The body is brought into the temple, and 
dancing begins. Anacoana, in love with Roldano, confides in the old man her 
premonition that Columbus will come back to her island and punish Roldano. 
Presently her fear comes true, as trumpets in the distance announce Columbus’s 
arrival. The Indians retire to the forest to watch his meeting with Roldano. 
Columbus banishes Orben, Roldano, Marguerite, and Diaz, leaving Guevara in 
charge to bring them back to port. 

Anacoana has her dancers distract Guevara, then she herself walks up to him, 
asking him what he is seeking. He says “Una visione! Una fanciulla strana!,” 
and recounts seeing a beautiful nude Indian maiden. Anacoana reckons this to be 
her daughter, Iguamota, whom she beckons to come forth. When Iguamota sees 
Guevara again, the two fall in love, much to Anacoana’s chagrin. Guevara 
forgets his prisoners, who escape during his duet scene with Iguamota. Distant 
noises alert them to the arrival of Governor Bobadilla’s ship from Spain, but 
when Guevara tries to return to Columbus, Iguamota clings to his legs and 
won’t let him go. Roldano and his conspirators join Bobadilla in taking 
Columbus prisoner, and Roldano denounces him. A fight breaks out, but 
Columbus restrains his men. Columbus throws down his sword, stretches out 
his arms to Bobadilla, and proudly calls for chains to be placed on him: “Alle 
catene porgo le mie braccia. . .. A me le catene, sacre catene che la gloria mia 
faranno gloria immacolata e eterna!” 

The Epilogue takes place in 1506, in the crypt of the kings of Castile, at 
Medina del Campo. Guevara enters this royal dwelling (“De’ nostri Regi l’ultima 
dimora € questa. .. .”) with an old and infirm Columbus. As the sun rises, some 
friars pass, leaving the door to the royal palace open. Guevara exits through the 
door to fetch the queen, as the friars chant the Requiem. Young girls enter with 
flowers, telling Columbus that they are mourning the Queen of Castile, Isabella, 
buried in a nearby tomb. Columbus then begins to hallucinate, seeing now 
Genoa (“sull’orizzonte ardita e bianca, nel cielo freme Genova superba”), now his 
ship, now the bloody shores of New Spain. His last wish, sung tenderly to 
Guevara, is that his chains be buried with him: 


21 Act III is omitted in some performances, as noted in the English/Italian libretto (tr. Elkin) 
published in 1913. 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 249 


Sulle mie gelide ossa 
porrai le mie catene. 
Le mie catene accanto 
riposino al mio cuore, 
cosi sia eterno il pianto 
e eterno il mio dolore. 


Columbus dies, commending his soul to his maker, 


Envot 

Each of the foregoing libretti, in its way, embroiders the historical record of 
Columbus’s voyages with added layers of amorous intrigue wholly ungrounded 
in fact. The dramatic interplay between men and women — love triangles in 
particular — seem to have been an essential ingredient of Italian opera from the 
start. If history did not supply such intrigues, the Italian librettist’s job would 
have been to create them. 

Very articulate in this respect was Felice Romani, in the preface to his 1828 
libretto pictured in Fig. 2. He wrote that the first duty of a librettist working on 
the Columbus saga would have been to present the hero’s most worthy aspects, 
his most glorious and best known achievements.?2 The greatest of these was 
obviously Columbus’s discovery of the New World and the dangers he faced and 
overcame in so doing. 

But while such facts were suitable for the poet, Romani felt that they were 
not so for the dramatist. The dramatic author required a situation in which love, 
“the passion more than any other favored by music,” could take root — hence 
the intrigue he devised between Zilia and Fernando.”? As for Columbus, Romani 
placed him in a predicament that alluded to the mythological underpinnings that 
nurture the very root of opera itself, likening the shipwrecked admiral’s situation 
during the fourth voyage to that of the legendary Philoctetes, abandoned on the 
island of Lemnos by the Greeks on their way to Troy, but eventually rescued by 
Odysseus: 


[L’illustre Genovese], insidiato da’ suoi stessi seguaci, lotta coraggioso colla sua 
mala fortuna, e maggiore di Filottete, che deserto in Lenno impreca la vendetta degli 
Dei sui colpevoli Greci, soffre invece senza mormorare |’abbandono de’ Castigliani, 
disarma i selvaggi colla sua virti, e . . . tronfa d’ogni ostacolo. .. . 


22 «Ta prima e la maggiore di tutte fu quella di presentare l’eroe nell’aspetto pit. degno di lui, 
nella situazione pit gloriosa, e nel tempo istesso pil nota agli spettatori.” 

“Ma soggetto gli € questo, che quanto conviene al poema che racconta, altrettanto sconviene al 
poema che rappresenta. L’autore drammatico ha d’uopo d’un nodo che ravvicini tutti i personaggi, 
e di un’azione in cui campeggi l’amore, passione pit d’ogni altra prediletta dalla musica.” 


250 Thomas Heck 


And as was the tradition, established with the very first Columbus-inspired 
opera, and certainly preserved in the many that followed, the action of necessity 
proceeded to its conclusion “con un misto d’Istoria, & invenzione.” 


Operas and Other Selected Musical Works on the Life of 
Christopher Columbus: 
A Checklist 


The aim of this chronological bibliography is to identify as fully as possible all 
Columbus-inspired operas, whether published (as libretti and/or scores) or 
simply referenced in secondary sources. In many cases it has been possible for 
the first time, thanks largely to the U.S.-RISM Libretto Project, to identify and 
cite the published works fully, with sigla for library locations. In other cases, 
where publication has not been established, the references will only be as good 
as the secondary sources on which they are (of necessity) based; when possible, I 
point out inconsistencies among the latter. The composer is favored as the main 
entry (the librettist if the libretto was set only once), followed by title, then 
information on librettist, publisher, location of copies, occasional annotations, 
and a word on how the entry was substantiated. The following abbreviations are 
used: 


Form abbreviations 

DM - drama with music, musical revue 
OFS - opera full score 

OL - opera libretto 

OR - opera reference, as cited 

OVS - opera piano-vocal score 


Library locations 

CTYS - Yale University Music Library 

CUBG - Libraries at U of California, Berkeley 
DCLC - Library of Congress, Washington, DC 
MAHS - Loeb Music Library, Harvard U 
MIUG - Hatcher Library, U of Michigan 
NYHR - New York Historical Society 

NYPG - New York Public Library 

PAUG - U of Pennsylvania Libraries 

UTBG - Brigham Young U Libraries 


Bibliographic abbreviations 

Gamberini - La vita musicale europea del 1800: archivio musicale genovese. Genova: 
1989. 

Johnson - H. Earle Johnson, Operas on American Subjects. New York: 1964. 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus Zo 


Loewenberg - Annals of Opera, 1597-1940. Totowa:1978. 

NUC - National Union Catalogue, pre-1956 Imprints. 

OCLC - The Online Computer Library Center database. 

RLIN - The Research Libraries Information Network database. 

Sartori - / libretti italiani a stampa dalle origini al 1800. Cuneo: 1990- . 4 of 5 vols. 
publ. so far. 

SchatzL - The Schatz libretto collection, Music Division, DCLC. 

SchatzT - The Schatz manuscript “Titelkatalog,” Music Division, DCLC. 

Sonneck - Catalogue of Opera Librettos Printed Before 1800 (Washington, DC, 
1914/r1967). 

Stieger - Franz Stieger’s Opernlexikon. Tutzing: Schneider, 1975. 

UKBP - British National Bibliography. 


Also included in this list, by way of contextual information and in smaller 
typeface, are selected references to non-operatic musical works on Columbus 
(ballets, cantatas, symphonic odes, etc.). While space does not permit their 
exhaustive listing, it is hoped that those which have been cited might provide a 
useful sidelight on the three centuries of operatic activity which form the core of 
this chronology. 

At the end there is a section of ten truly problematic references to alleged 
Columbus operas, headed “Appendix. Undated and/or Unverified References.” 
These represent mostly loose ends gleaned by Stieger or Johnson, evidently from 
press reports. 

Of the approximately four-dozen operas on the Columbus story (not 
counting those in the Appendix), about twenty are Italian; they are highlighted 
in this list with dates in boldface. 


1691 (OL, Italian) [Ottoboni, Pietro Cardinal.] J] COLOMBO overo 
L’INDIA SCOPERTA, dramma per musica dedicato 
all’ Illustriss. ed’Eccellentiss. Sig. PrincipefBa D. MARIA 
OTTHOBONI. Da rappresentarsi nel Teatro di Tor di Nona 
L’Anno M.DC.XCI [coat of arms] Ad istanza di Francesco 
Leone Libraro in Piazza Madama. Roma: Per Gio: Francesco 
Buagni, M.DC.XC. 

COPY: SchatzL #7371. Referenced by Carboni and 
most subsequent writers. OCLC # 6632031 and 14228488. 
Sartori no. 5907 cites European locations as well. 
(OFS) [Pasquini, Bernardo.] [J! Colombo overo I'India 
scoperta] Music attributed to Pasquini by G. F. Crain, in The 
Operas of Bernardo Pasquini (Diss., Yale University, 1965). (I 
owe this information to Jiirgen Maehder.) COPY: 
Contrary to Loewenberg (“Music lost.”), a score of this opera 


202 


1708 


1741 


1783 


1784 


1788 


Thomas Heck 


is in British Library, additional ms. 16153. (Thanks to Prof. 
Margaret Murata for this information.) When this essay went 
to press, Jiirgen Maehder informed me that a critical edition of 
this opera had just [July 1992] been prepared by Ulrike Feld, 
and a professional performance and CD recording were to be 
undertaken. 


(DM) /L COLOMBO, Dramma rappresentato nel Collegio de 
SS. Geronimo e Francesco Saverio della Compagnia di Gest 
in Genova l’anno 1708. 

COPY: A transcript of the plot (scenario) of this 
drama, which calls for music and dancing, is provided in 
Carboni, Cristoforo Colombo nel teatro (1892): 196-209. He 
describes it as a commedia dell’ arte scenario. Referenced also in 
Stieger. 


(OR) Rousseau, Jean-Jacques. La découverte du nouveau 
monde. 

COPY: Not located; music presumed lost. Cited in 
The New Grove Dictionary... among Rousseau’s stage works 
as a 3-act tragédie lyrique performed at Lyons in 1741. Text 
(London: Bouber, 1776) printed in J. J. Rousseau, Oeuvres 
complétes, ed. Bernard Gagnebin & Marcel Raymond (Paris: 
Gallimard, 1964), vol. 2, 811-841. (Thanks to Prof. Jiirgen 
Maehder for this reference.) 


(OR) Columbus; or, the Discovery of America. 

COPY: Not located. Cited without attribution by 
Sonneck, who found a reference to its having been produced in 
Baltimore, 21 March 1783. Johnson repeats this information 
(27), but creates confusion by later attributing this opera 
(falsely) to one Victor Pelissier (82). 


(ballet) Rossetti, Ant.[onio]. Colombo nell’ Indie. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger cites this work, attributing 
the music to Ant. Rossetti, the text [choreography?] to 
Dom.[Domenico] Lefevbre; premiered Naples, Aug 1784, Teatro 
San Carlo. Regarding Lefevre, see 1788 Brunetti production 
below. 


(ballet) Brunetti, Antonio. // Cristoforo Colombo nell’ Indie, 
ballo eroico tragico, referenced as the “Primo ballo” in the opera // 
Bertoldo: dramma giocoso per musica... Firenze: Nella stamperia 
gia Albizziniana da S. M. in Campo, 1788. [2], 64 p. 


1788 


1794 


L7G 


1797 


1800 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 253 


COPY: SchatzL; cited in RISM. The balli are listed (p.3.) 
following the statement: “Inventore e direttore dei balli il Sig. 
Domenico le Fevre...” Verso of t.p. states: “La musica é tutta 
nuova del Sig. Antonio Brunetti maestro di cappella pisano. 


(OR) Fabrizi, Vincenzo. I! Colombo, o La scoperta delle Indie. 

COPY: Not located. Described as a “farsa a cinque 
voci per musica.” Stieger identifies M.[Michele] Mallio as the 
author of the text, and places the premiere in Rome, Teatro 
Capranica, during the 1788 carnival season. Sartori (J libretti 
italiani a stampa..., vol. 2: 159) relates it to the libretto La 
Tempesta o sia da un Disordine ne nasce un Ordine (Roma, 
1788), about which more information will be available when 
vol. 5 is published. 


The following clustered citations, 1794-1800, include three 
American tricentennial musical plays based on the following 
British play by Thomas Morton: Columbus: Or, a World 
Discovered; an Historical Play; as it is Performed at the Theatre 
Royal, Covent-Garden. Second edition. London: W. Miller, 1792. 
4 p.l., 66, [3] p. 

COPY: DCLC, call no. E120.M88. 

(DM) Reinagle, Alexander. Columbus: or the Discovery of 
America ... Boston: William Spotswood, 1794. 2 p. 1., 52, 
[3] p. 

COPY: DCLC, call no. E120.M885. First performed 
at London, 1 Dec 1792. Cited here because performed with 
incidental music by Alexander Reinagle, Philadelphia, New 
Theatre, 21 Jan 1797. 

(DM) Hewitt, James. Columbus — a world discovered. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger reports that it was a 
drama by Thomas Morton with music by James Hewitt, 
premiered in New York, 1797. Johnson states, “Composed in 
1799.” 

(march) Reinagle, Alexander. Indian march, of the much admeired 
[sic] American play caled [sic] Columbus. Arranged for the piano 
forte. Philadelphia: C. Hupfeld, [between 1797 and 1799]. 1 leaf 

COPY: DCLC, ICN. Stieger states that the drama 
“Columbus — a world discovered” was on a book by Thomas 
Morton. It was premiered in London, 1 Dec 1792, and in America 
at Philadelphia, 20 Jan 1797. 

(DM) Hagen, P. A. van. Columbus — the discovered 
America. 


254 


1810 


1815 


1828- 


Thomas Heck 


COPY: Not located; listed by Stieger as a drama on a 
text by Thomas Morton [see above] with music by P. A. van 
Hagen, premiered Boston, 1800. 


(DM) Blumenthal, Joseph von. Columbus. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger attributes the text to 
Klingemann, and places the premiere in Vienna, Theater an der 
Wien, 1 Oct 1810, evidently on the basis of press notices. 


(DM) Darondeau, Henri. Christophe Colomb; ou la découverte 
du nouveau monde. Mélodrame historique en trois actes, en 
prose et a grand spectacle, par R. C. Guilbert de Pixérécourt, 
représenté pour la premiere fois a Paris, sur le Thédtre de la 
Gaité, le 5 septembre 1815. Musique de M. Darondeau. Paris: 
Barba, 1815. 100 p. 

COPY: DCLC; other locations cited in NUC. Jiirgen 
Maehder signaled this as the first libretto to make use of some 
native American words (as reported in “Admiral of the Opera 
Too,” The Washington Post 29 Feb 1992: D, p. 1, col. 1). 


(OL, Italian) Morlacchi, Francesco. Colombo, Melodramma 
Serio in due atti da rappresentarsi nel Teatro Carlo Felice la 
Primavera del 1828 alla presenza delle LL. MM. Genova: 
Litografia e Tipografia Ponthenier, 1828. ix, 10-53 p. 

COPY: DCLC, SchatzL #6645. Librettist identified 

as Felice Romani on p. ix; composer cited on p. 10 as “Sig. 
Cav. Francesco Morlacchi, primo Maestro di Cappella di S. 
M. il Re di Sassonia.” Loewenberg gives the premiere of this 
opera as Genoa, 21 June 1828. “In Italian also, Dresden 2 May 
1829; Leipzig 25 May 1830; revived Genoa Spring 1839; 
Seville June 1839.” 
(OL, Italian & German) Morlacchi, Francesco. Colombo, 
Melodramma Serio in due Atti da rappresentarsi nel Reale 
Teatro di Sassonia = Columbus, Historisches Melodramm in 
zwei Aufziigen fiir das Kénigl. Sachsische Theater. Dresden: 
s.e., 1829. 109 p. Libretto in Italian and German on facing 
pages. 

COPY: DCLC, SchatzL #6646. 

(OVS selections) Morlacchi, Francesco. I] Colombo del 
Cavaliere Morlacchi. Milano: L. Bertuzzi, [ca.1830]. COPY: 
CUBG, acc. to RLIN & OCLC. Contains: (1) Scena e duetto: 
Ah ti trovo al fin. (2) Scena e cavatina: Dove fuggite. (3) 
Recitativo e cavatina: Maggior di nostra speme. (4) Non pensar. 


1829 


1829 


1831 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 255 


(5) I tuoi sensi. The last two numbers (with Italian & German 
words) have the imprint “Dresden, Verlag der Meserschen Kunst 
und Musicalien Handlung.” 

DCLC has a vocal score of the Scena e cavatina, “Ei 
verra Compagni il giuro,” publ. “Firenze presso Ricordi Pozzi 
e Co.” and “Milano presso Giovanni Ricordi” in the 
Collezione di arie e cavatine per basso e baritono, 
M1507.C73A6, v.10. 

DCLC also has several score excerpts publ. “Presso 
Breitkopf e Hartel in Lipsia” in the collection labeled M1508. 


(OR) Fioravanti, Vincenzo. Colombo alla scoperta delle Indie. 
COPY: Not located. Stieger calls it a 2-act opera and 
puts the premiere in Naples, Teatro La Fenice. SchatzT 
provides identical information. Cited also by Carboni in 1892, 
Pinto in 1934, and Johnson in 1964, who states, “Composed 
about 1828. Vocal score published in Milan by Lucca, 183-.” 


(OL, Italian) Ricci, Luigi. Colombo: melodramma serio, da 
rappresentarsi in occasione della Grande Apertura del Nuovo 
Ducal Teatro di Parma. Parma: Dalla Stamperia Carmignani, 
1829. xvi, 38 p. 

COPY: DCLC, SchatzL #8751. Libretto by Felice 
Romani. 


(OR) Carnicer, Ramon. Cristoforo Colombo. Autograph ms. 
and two copies of the full score, plus all the parts. 

COPY: Madrid, Biblioteca Municipal (Biblioteca del 

Ayutamiento), Musica 476-480. Stieger correctly credits F. 
Romani with the libretto of this 2-act opera, and puts the 
premiere in Madrid, at the Teatro del Principe, on 12 Jan 1831. 
SchatzT agrees. Cited by Carboni. Loewenberg calls it “First 
Columbus opera written by a Spanish composer.” Johnson 
adds, “It was produced in Havana also in 1831,” and cites it 
under its Spanish name, Cristéforo Coldén. [Thanks to Prof. 
Jiirgen for this information.] 
(OL) [Romani Felice.] Colombo, melodramma serio in due 
atti // Cristobal Colén, melodramma serio en dos actos, que se 
ha de representar en los teatros de esta corte. Madrid: I Sancha, 
“Dicembre de 1830.” (Thanks to Prof. Jiirgen Maehder for this 
reference, together with the information that “a manuscript 
copy of Romani’s printed libretto for Morlacchi,” is in Madrid, 
Biblioteca Municipal [Biblioteca del Aytamineto, 1-196-27].) 


256 


1832 


1834 


1835 


1840 


1845 


Thomas Heck 


(ballet reference) Monticini, Antonio [choreographer and 
composer?]}. Cristoforo Colombo alla scoperta del Nuovo Mondo. 

COPY: Not located. Performed at the Teatro Carlo Felice, 
Genoa, 15 Feb 1832, as reproduced in Gamberini, II], 67-68. 
(ballet libretto) Monticini, Antonio [choreographer and 
composer?]. Colombo all'isola di Cuba, azione mimica di mezzo 
carattere in quattro parti, di Antonio Montecini, da rappresentare 
nell’]. R. Teatro alla Scala l’autunno dell’anno 1832. Milano: 
Luigi di Giacomo Pirola, 1832. 

COPY: Parma, Archivio Capitolare (Thanks to Prof. 
J‘iirgen Maehder for this reference). 


(OVS excerpt) Thomas, Ambroise. Scena e duetto: parole 
sopra un tratto della storia di Colombo. 1 score (70 p.), 
holograph, in ink. On t.p.: Rome, aot 1834. For soprano, 
tenor and orchestra. 

COPY: CTYS, acc. to RLIN 


(overture) Wagner, Richard. Christoph Columbus — Ouverture. 
Composed Magdeburg, Jan 1835; first perf. 16 Feb 1835; 
published in the set: Vier Ouvertiiren fiir Orchester zum ersten Male 
herausgegeben von Felix Mottl: Kénig Enzio; Christoph 
Columbus; Polonia; Rule Britannia. Leipzig: Breitkopf & Hartel, 
c1908. Plate no. Part. B. 2091. 

COPY: DCLC, PAUG, NYPG. Kalmus reprint [1980?] at 
MAHS, etc. This youthful work was composed when Wagner was 
21, and had just been appointed to his first conducting job with 
the Heinrich Bethmann theatrical company, Magdeburg. 


(OR) Sangiorgio-Rabiti, Giovanni Battista. Colombo. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger gives the author as 
“Sangiorgio-Rabili,” and places the premiere at Parma in 
1840. SchatzT gives the composer’s name as “Giovanni 
Battista Rabiti Sangiorgio.” Carboni (1892) simply gives the 
author as “Sangiorgio.” 

(cantata) Donizetti, Gaetano. Cristoforo Colombo. 

COPY: Naples, Conservatorio di Musica. For 
baritone and orochestra. Premiered Paris, Opéra, in March 
1845 for the benefit of P. Barroilhet, acc. to New Grove 
Dictionary. (Thanks to Prof. Jiirgen Maehder for calling this 
reference to my attention. He adds that it was “given at La 
Scala/Milano as a ballet [during July 13-17]; some pages were 
published in facsimile in the Scala program book.”) 


1845 


1847 


1847 


c.1847 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 251 


(cantata) Gambini, Carlo Andrea. J Colombo. 

COPY: Not located. A press report in Espero (2 Aug 
1845) describes an “accademia musicale” given by “Maestro 
Andrea Gambini” (Genoa, 29 July) in which this work, for 
soloists, chorus, and piano (in place of orchestra), was performed 
to much acclaim. It was a setting of the Felice Romani text. 
(Gamberini, ITV, 176-77) Cf. 1852 entry below, a work on the 
same subject. 


(OR) Bottesini, Giovanni. Cristoforo Colombo. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger credits F. Romani with 
the libretto and puts the premiere in Havana’s Teatro Tacon, 
during carnival 1847. SchatzT agrees with this but calls the 
work a “melodramma serio.” Carboni (1892) cites it in passing 
as having been premiered in “Avana” in 1846. Johnson gives 
Ramon de Palma as the librettist of this one-act opera for three 
singers (of which Columbus is a baritone) citing Toldn and 
Gonzales’ Operas Cubanas y sus autores (Havana, 1943), Ch. 
3, as his source. The work would have been known there as 
Colén en Cuba, and would have premiered in Havana, 31 Jan 
1847. 


(oratorio) David, Félicien. Christophe Colomb; ou, La découverte 
du Nouveau monde, ode symphonique en quatre parties. Paroles de 
M. M. Mery, Ch. Chaubet, et Sylvain St. Etienne, musique de 
Félicien David. Dessins de Mouilleron et Nanteuil. Paris: J. 
Meissonnier et fils, [ca. 1847]. Piano-vocal score, 2 p. 1., 144 p. 

COPY: NYPG, CUBS, CTYS acc. to RLIN. This “ode- 
symphonie” was first performed in Paris, 1847. An Italian edition 
appeared soon thereafter in Milan: F. Lucca, [1847?]. Likewise a 
German & French edition, Vienna: H. F. Miiller, [ca.1847], acc. to 
RLIN. It is classed as an “oratorio” by NYPG cataloger. 


(piano suite) Mayer, Johann. Columbus Weltumsegler: neue 
characteristische Tdnze fiir das Piano-Forte. . . . Wien: Tobias 
Haslinger’s Witwe u. Sohn, c1847. Score, 11 p. of music. Pl. no. 
10608. 

COPY: Duke Univ. Music Library (Alexander Weinmann 
collection), per OCLC no. 25917503, which assigns the date 
1840 to this copy. A. Weinmann’s Vollstadndiges 
Verlagsverzeichnis Senefelder Steiner Haslinter, Bd. 3, 1843- 
1875 (Miinchen: Katzbichler, 1983) characterizes the dances as 
“Neue Lindler,” and situates plate number 10608 at c.1847. The 


258 


1848 


1851 


1852 


1856 


Thomas Heck 


titles of the dances in the Duke Univ. copy, acc. to information 
received from Lois Schultz, are: “Die Entdeckung der neuen Welt, 
Columbus Weltumsegler, Die freudige Aufnahme des Columbus in 
Amerika oder das stille Meer, Die gute Hoffnung, Die freudige 
Riickkehr nach Spanien, Der europdische Hirtentanz, Columbus als 
Zwickerl in Wien [Mayer’s pseudonym was “Zwicker”], Der Traum 
ein Leben,” and “Der Ocean oder das stiirmische Meer.” 


(OL, Italian & German) Barbieri, Carlo Emanuele. [Cristoforo 
Colombo] Columbus. Hamburg: Gedruckt bey J. F. Kayser, 
[1848]. 

COPY: DCLC, Schatz libretto collection, #599. See 
also RLIN, which cites a Berlin imprint of 1848 entitled 
“Colombus.” Stieger gives Felice Romani as the librettist 
(German version by Emilie Seidel), and puts the premiere at 
Berlin, K6nigstédter Theater, 20 Dec 1848. SchatzT confirms 
this. Carboni (1892) and Johnson (1964) give the date 26 Dec 
1848 for the premiere. 


(oratorio libretto) Gainbini, G. [C?] A. [Carlo Andrea]. Cristofor 
Colombo, o la scoperta del nuovo mondo, ode sinfonia in quattro 
parti, tradotta dal francese da Giuseppe Torre, posta in musica e 
dedicata alla societa Filarmonica Fiorentina, dal Maestro G. A. 
Gambini. Firenze: Federigo Bencini, 1851. 

COPY: Berlin, Staaticles Institut fiir Musikforschung 
Preussischer Kulturbesitz (thanks to Prof. Jiirgen Maehder for this 
reference). 


(oratorio score) Gambini, Carlo Andrea. Cristoforo Colombo, 
ossia, la scoperta del nuovo mondo, ode-sinfonia in quattro parti 
tradotta liberamente dal francese con variazioni ed aggiunte da G. 
Torre; riduzione per canto e piano dell’ autore. Milano: G. Ricordi, 
1852. 1 vocal score (vii, 164 p.) 

COPY: CUBG. Stieger places the premiere in 
Florence, 7 June 1851, at the Accademia Filarmonica. Confirmed 
by reviews of two Florence critics, Casamorata and Mazzuccato, 
who reportedly judged the work “un capolavoro per fantasia, per 
dottrina, e per gusto” (Gamberini, IX, 14). Cf. the 1845 Gambini 
entry, above, which may describe an earlier related compositional 
effort or an earlier state of the present work. 


(OFS & OL) Skroup, Franti¥ek Jan. Columbus. 
COPY: Narodni Muzeum, Prague. Composed in 
1855/56, but premiered only in 1942, at the Praha Narodni 


1857 


1857 


1859 


1862 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 259 


Divadlo. (Thanks to Jiirgen Maehder for this information, 
confirmed in Adirenne Simpson’s article on Skroup in The 
New Grove, as well as for his references to a compact disc 
with excerpts of this work recorded in 1962 [Multisonic, 
Prague, 310153-2] and to an article by Monika Bartova, 
““Kolumbus’: Skroupova opera, které nepr‘dlo testi,” Opus 
musicum 24 [1992]: 1-8.) 


(DM) Brougham, John. Columbus el filibustero! a new and 
audaciously original historicoplagiaristic . . . confusion of 
circumstances running through two acts and four centuries. 
New York: S. French, c1857. 24 p. Includes titles of airs 
(popular and borrowed) to be sung. 

COPY: Available as a microopaque from Readex 
Microprint (1967) in the series “English and American drama 
of the nineteenth century. English.” 


(OVS, Italian) Mela, Vincenzo. Cristoforo Colombo; 
melodramma serio in quattro atti; poesia del Cave. F. Romani. 
Milano: P. Albini, [1857]. 

COPY: CUBG, acc. to RLIN. Stieger reports that 

this “two-act” opera was premiered at Verona’s Teatro Nuovo, 
16 Nov 1857. OCLC #21850725. 
(OL, Italian) Romani, Felice. Cristoforo Colombo, 
melodramma serio in quattro atti di Felice Romani, e posto in 
musica dal maestro Vincenzo Mela, d'Isola della Scala, da 
rappresentarsi nel Teatro Nuovo di Verona, I’ Autunno 1857. 
[Verona?]: G. Daldo, 1857. 

COPY: Venice, Conservatorio di Musica B. Marcello 
(thanks to Prof. Jiirgen Maehder for this reference). 


(OL, English) Beckel, J. C. James Cox). Columbus, or the 
Discovery of America; A Drama in Three Parts. Philadelphia: 
G. W. Beckel, 1859. 16 p. 

COPY: MAHS, NYHR, according to RLIN. 


(ballet reference) Cristoforo Colombo. [Monplaisir] 

COPY: See 1872 Giorza entry below. The Gazzetta di 
Genova (9 Jan 1862) reports at length and in glowing terms on the 
performance of this ballet in Genoa (at the Teatro Carlo Felice?) 
between acts of the opera / puritani. It is called “un nuovo ballo 
che il coreografo Monplaisir ricavd abbastanza felicemente dalla 
storia di Cristoforo Colombo” (Gamberini, VI, 96-97). 


260 


1864 


1865 


1865 


1869 


1872 


Thomas Heck 


(ballet libretto) Giorza, Paolo. Cristoforo Colombo, ballo storico 
in cinque atti di Ippolito Monplaisir, con musica del Maestro 
Giorza, da rappresentarsi nel teatro Apollo nella stagione di 
carnevale 1863-1864. Roma: trovasi vendibile nella Tipografia 
Olivieri al Corso 336, [1864]. 

COPY: Venice, Conservatorio di Musica B. Marcello 
(thanks to Prof. Jiirgen Maehder for this reference). See 1862 entry 
above, and 1872 Giorza entry below, which are related. 


(symphony) Abert, Johann Joseph. Columbus, musikalisches 
Seegemdlde in Form einer Symphonie fiir grosses Orchester . . . 
Op. 31. Mainz: B. Schott’s SGhne, [1865]. score (197 p.) 

COPY: See OCLC #19551019. Henry Krehbiel opined 
(New York Tribune 10 Oct. 1892: 8, col. 1-2) that this symphonic 
piece was “the finest musical tribute that has yet been offered to 
the manes of the discoverer. It was the opening number at the great 
German Saengerfest held in Cincinnati [in 1868].” 


(OR) Casella, Felicita. Cristoforo Colombo. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger credits F. Romani with 
the libretto of this 2-act opera and puts the premiere in Nice, at 
the Théatre Impérial, Feb 1865. SchatzT calls it a 
“Melodramma serio,” adding “unter der Direktion von Sig. 
Avetti. Carnevale 1864.” [Note: Could the composer actually 
be Fabrizio Casella? NUC refers to a Fabrizio, who published 
several books on opera c.1855; see his Bibliografia di operette 
italiane pubblicate nel secolo XIX (Napoli: Margheri, 1897- 
1900).] 


(OR) Marcora, C. Cristoforo Colombo. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger cites it as a 2-act opera 
by C. Marcora, libretto by Felice Romani, premiered Bastia, 
June 1869. SchatzT concurs. Johnson places it in “Bahia, 
Brazil, 1869.” 


(ballet) Giorza, Paolo. Cristoforo Colombo; ballo del coreografo 
Ippolito Monplaisir; rappresentato al gran Teatro Carlo Felice in 
Genova; musica composta e ridotta per pianoforte da Paolo Giorza. 
Milano: Tito di G. Ricordi, [1872]. 38 p., plate no. 33848-33851. 

COPY: NYPG (*MSP). Contains: Atto I: Preludio, 
introduzione e ballabile. Atto 3: Ballabile a bordo. Atto 5: Passo 
indiano. Ballabile dei Selvaggi. Corresponds very closely to the 
ballet described by Genoese music critic A. P. in a review dated 9 
Jan. 1862 (see 1862 entry above). 


1879 


1881 


1883 


1886 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 261 


(OR) Llanos y Alcaraz, Adolfo. Tierra! 

Copy: Not located. Jiirgen Maehder (in recent 
correspondence) refers to this one-act zarzuela (“cuadro lirico 
dramatico”) on a text by José Campos-Arena, premiered in 
Madrid in 1879, as the source of the “Italian one-act opera for 
the 1892 festivities.” This may also relate to my 1892/3 
citation of a three-act opera by Llanos y Alcaraz. 


(oratorio) Rheinberger, Josef Gabriel von. Christoforus; Legende. 
Gedicht von F. von Hoffnass, componirt fiir Soli, Chor und 
Orchester von Josef Rheinberger. Op. 120 . . . Klavierauszug vom 
Componisten. Ouverture fiir Pianoforte zu vier Hadnden. .. . 
Leipzig: F. Kistner, [1881]. viii, 93 p. Plate no. 5728. “Englische 
Uebersetzung von Seymour Egerton.” 

COPY: NYPG. Acc. to NYPG cataloger, F. von Hoffnass 
was the pseudonym for Franziska Rheinberger (Jaégerhuber). The 
work is classed as an oratorio. 

American edition: New York: G. Schirmer, c1909. 
“English version by Frederick H. Martens.” COPY: NYPG 


(OL, Italian) Penco, Vittorio. Cristoforo Colombo: opera in 
tre atti, rappresentata la prima volta con piena orchestra nel 
Politeama Genovese il 9 dicembre 1883 dagli alunni 
dell’Istituto Vittorino da Feltre a benefizio dell’Istituto dei 
Ciechi. Genova: Tipografia del R. Istituto Sordo-Muti, 1883. 
20 p. 

COPY: DCLC, SchatzL #7861. Stieger credits one 
E. [Enrico] Bignami (Johnson calls him “Enrico Pignani”) 
with co-authorship of the music; the librettist is unknown. 
Carboni (1892) also cites this opera in passing. This children’s 
opera was premiered in December 1883 at Genoa’s Politeama. 
Cicala, critic of J] Caffaro (Genoa, 19 Dec 1883) describes it in 
a priceless review starting this way: “. . . opera in tre atti, 
vista col cannocchiale alla rovescia. . . . Invece di artisti grandi 
. . . le parti erano sostenute . . . dai giovanetti, per non dire 
bambini, dell’Istituto Vittorino da Feltre. Un’opera, a piena 
orchestra, eseguita da ragazzini dai dieci ai dodici anni. . .” 
(Gamberini, VIII, 122-23). 


(cantata) Buck, Dudley. The Voyage of Columbus [for men’s 
chorus and orchestra]. 

COPY: Not located. Henry Krehbiel reported (Vew York 
Tribune 10 Oct. 1892: 8, col. 1-2) that it was performed by the 
Apollo Club of Brooklyn, May 1886 and again in Feb. 1887. “It 


262 


1887-9 


1890 


1892 


Thomas Heck 


may be said to have a permanent place in the repertory of men’s 
singing clubs that are able to command the help of an orchestra.” 
Krehbiel describes the six scenes in this cantata. He also praises 
the cantata “Columbus” by C. Joseph Brambach, performed at the 
N. American Saengerbund festival in Milwaukee, July 1886. 


(“ballad”) Hummel, Ferdinand. Columbus; Ballad for Solos, Mixed 
Chorus and Orchestra (or piano). New York: G. Schirmer, [c1889]. 
score (48 p.). “Translated from the German of L. Brachmann, by 
Nathan Haskell.” 

COPY: See OCLC #19891030. Henry Krehbiel reported 
(New York Tribune 10 Oct. 1892: 8, col. 1-2) that this work was 
performed on 30 Jan. 1887 at a concert of New York’s Liederkranz. 


(cantata) Draeske, Felix August Bernhard. Columbus: Cantate fiir 
Soli, Mannerchor und Orchester [English version by E. Buek]. Full 
score, edited and revised by G. L. New York . . . Leipzig: F. 
Kistner, c1890. 175 p. 

COPY: NYPG. German and English text. 


(OVS, Italian) Franchetti, Alberto. Cristoforo Colombo: 
dramma lirico in tre atti e un epilogo di Luigi Illica, musica di 
Alberto Franchetti, prima rappresentazione: Genova, Teatro 
Carlo Felice, 6 Ottobre 1892. Opera completa per canto e 
pianoforte; Riduzione di Carlo Carignani. Milano: G. Ricordi; 
New York: Boosey, c1893. 10, 433, 24 p. [Intermittent pl. 
no. 96250.] “Scritto per commissione del Municipio di 
Genova.” 

COPY: CUBG and other libraries, as cited in RLIN. 
Another edition: Cristoforo Colombo, dramma lirico in quattro 
atti ed un epilogo, di Luigi Illica. Opera completa per 
pianoforte. Milano: G. Ricordi, c1901. 202 p. Pl. no. 98202. 
COPY: NYPG (*MSP). Another four-act edition comprising 
423 p., publ. Milano: G. Ricordi, c1903 [c.1893] at NYPG 
(*MS). In recent correspondence, Prof. Jiirgen Maehder 
suggests that four acts plus epilogue constituted the opera’s 
first version; the later date on NYPL copies may be due to 
their being copies dc .osited by Ricordi to assure US 
copyright. “The Ricordi/Boosey piano vocal score must be the 
second version.” The latter is recorded on CD, Koch/Schwann 
3-1030-2. 
(OL, Italian) Cristoforo Colombo, dramma lirico in tre Atti ed 
un Epilogo di Luigi Illica... Milano: G. Ricordi, 1893. 
Numerous copies in RLIN. 


1892 


1892 


1892 


1892 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 263 


(OL, English & Italian) Cristoforo Colombo: lyric drama. 
Italian libretto by Luigi Illica, English version by R. H. 
Elkin. New York: G. Ricordi, 1913. 

COPIES: NYPG, see also RLIN. Omits Act III. 


(oratorio score) Gomes, Carlos. Colombo, poema_ vocale- 
sinfonico in quattro parti di Albino Falanca,; solennita 
Colombiana Milano: A. Demarchi, [18927]. Vocal score (206 p.). 
Another edition, called “Edigaéo comemorativa do sesquicentenario 
do compositor,” published Sao Paulo: Ricordi, 1986 [c1985]. 
vocal score (206 p.). 

COPIES: See RLIN; OCLC no. 19880719. Stieger 
characterizes this work as a “Chorwerk 4 Teile,” and places its 
premiere in Rio de Janeiro, 1892. It was reissued in a Portuguese 
edition, Sao Paulo: Ricordi, 1986, c1985, acc. to RLIN. 

(oratorio libretto) Falanca, Albino. Colombo, poema vocale- 
sinfonico di Albino Falanca, musica di Carlos Gomes. Milano: A. 
Demarchi, [18927]. 

COPY: Milano: Archivio Storico Ricordi (thanks to 

Prof. Jiirgen Maehder for this reference). 


(cantata) Melamet, D. Columbus. Festival Cantata for Soprano, 
Alto, Tenor and Bass Soli, Chorus of Men's Voices and Orchestra; 
German Text by Wm. Keilmann; English Translation by E. Buek. 
New York: G. Schirmer, c1892. 88 p. “Prize composition 
Columbus festival, Oct. 11th, 1892.” Piano-vocal score. 

COPY: NYPG (*MP (U.S.)). Henry Krehbiel (Vew York 
Tribune 10 Oct. 1892: 8, col. 1-2) characterized this as “‘a cantata 
in which no effort has been made towards dramatic delineation.” 
Yet “it is splendidly sonorous, in parts vividly descriptive.” 
Krehbiel’s Oct. 10 article went on to predict that at its 
performance the next day “about 1,000 men singers from the 
leading societies will participate, besides an orchestra of over 
100, and four good solo singers.” 


(OR) Morales, Julio. Cristéforo Colombo a San Domingo. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger places the premiere in 
Mexico [City], 12 Oct 1892, at the Teatro Nacional, and gives 
the librettist as Enrico Golisciani. SchatzT provides same 
information. Johnson calls it a one-act opera. 


(OVS, Italian) Polleri, Giovanni Battista. Colombo fanciullo; 
melodramma in musica in un atto, per fanciulli. Parole di 
Leone Morione. Musica di G. B. Polleri. Firenze: G. 
Venturini, [1892]. Pl. no. 5680. 14, 59p. 


264 


1892 


1892 


1892 


1892/3 


Thomas Heck 


COPY: CUBG; see also NUC. Discussed by 
Carboni. 


(cantata) Perosio, Ettore. L’Apoteosi di Colombo. 

COPY: Not located. Mentioned in /! Caffaro (Genoa, 30 
Sep 1892) as part of a program of vocal and instrumental works 
given in honor of Columbus and in the presence of her majesty the 
Queen in the “salone dei Concerti” at the Esposizione Italo- 
Americana. Described as a “cantata poema scritta per l’occasione, 
parole del prof. Silvio A. Caligo, musica del maestro Ettore 
Perosio. Soliste: signora Darciée (America) — signora Zawner 
(Europa) (Gamberini, X, 70). 


(OVS, English) Pratt, Silas Gamaliel. The Triumph of 
Columbus, as Produced at the Metropolitan Opera House, Oct. 
10th, 1892 .. . Music Written and Composed by S. G. Pratt. 
... New York: C. Fischer, 1892. 189 p. At head of title: 
“1492-1892, a Columbian festival allegory.” 

COPY: DCLC, MIUG, etc. as cited in RLIN. 
Johnson writes, “Libretto by the composer in five acts. Heard 
in concert form only.” Henry Krehbiel had this to say about 
Pratt’s composition (New York Tribune 10 Oct. 1892: 8, col. 
1-2): “In the choice of his apparatus, he has been a little 
archaic. Sirens and spirits of evil fight against the great 
enterprise as well as against the superstition of the Church, 
and his hero is kept firm in his faith by religious zeal and 
convenient apparitions of the Spirit of Liberty and Progress... 
In the performance of this work, Mr. Pratt will have the 
cooperation of a chorus of several hundred voices, an orchestra 
of eighty pieces, and [eight] solo singers.” 


(OR) Vidal y Careta, Francisco. Cristébal Colon. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger carries no mention of the 
librettist, and puts the premiere in Barcelona, Oct 1892, at the 
Teatro Liceo. SchatzT places the premiere in Barcelona at the 
Teatro del Circo Montserrat, Monday 17 Oct 1892. Johnson 
calls the composer Vidal y Caretas and places the premiere in 
September 1892. 


(OVS, Spanish) Llanos y Alcaraz, Adolfo. Cristobal Colén: 
opera en 3 actos. Madrid: Zozaya, 1893. Various pagings; 
Spanish words. Libretto by C. L. Cuenca. 

COPY: CUBG, acc to RLIN and OCLC #21819263; 


1893 


1893 


1893 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 265 


see also NUC. SchatzT confusingly calls it a “Zarzuela” for 3 
actors, on a text by Jose Campo Arana, composed by 
“Antonio Llanos y Bereta” [sic]. Johnson echoes this 
attribution (p.92), adding “Naples, 1892” as the place and date 
of the opera’s premiere. Stieger dates the premiere to Madrid, 
October 1892 (but see below); SchatzT adds the locale: Teatro 
de la Zarzuela. SchatzT also carries this information on Italian 
performances of the work: Genoa, Politeama Genovese, June 
1892 [which would imply Genoa as the city of the premiere]; 
and Milan, Teatro Filodrammatico, on Wed. 26 Apr 1893, 
both with the Italian title “Cristoforo Colombo.” (In recent 
correspondence, Prof. Jiirgen Maehder draws attention to the 
original Spanish zarzuela of 1879 [v. supra] which was the 
basis of this Italian adaptation. He located a copy of the Italian 
libretto, printed in Napoli, which supports Johnson’s “Naples, 
1892” premiere.) 


(OL, English) Caryll, Ivan. Little Christopher Columbus; 
Written by Geo. R. Sims and Cecil Raleigh. London: 
Hopwood & Crew; Boston: White-Smith Pub. Co., [c1893]. 
193 p. 

COPY: CUBG. NUC cites Caryll (1861-1921) as a 
composer of musical comedies around 1910. 


(OVS, Spanish) Llanos y Alcaraz, Adolfo. Cristobal Colén: 
opera en 3 actos. Madrid: Zozaya, 1893. Various pagings; 
Spanish words. Libretto by C. L. Cuenca. 

COPY: CUBG, acc to RLIN and OCLC #21819263; 
see also NUC. SchatzT confusingly calls it a “Zarzuela” for 3 
actors, on a text by Jose Campoi Arana, composed by 
“Antonio Llanos y Bereta” [sic]. Johnson echoes this 
attribution (p.92), adding “Naples, 1892” as the place and date 
of the opera’s premiere! Stieger dates the premiere to Madrid, 
October 1892 (but see below); SchatzT adds the locale: Teatro 
de la Zarzuela. SchatzT also carries this information on Italian 
performances of the work: Genoa, Politeama Genovese, June 
1892 [which would imply Genoa as the city of the premiere]; 
and Milan, Teatro Filodrammatico, on Wed. 26 Apr 1893, 
both with the Italian title “Cristoforo Colombo.” 


(cantata) Mohr, Hermann. Columbus - Colén; Cantate fiir Sopran- 
und Bariton-Solo, Mannerchor, und Orchester- oder Pianoforte 


266 


1895 


1896 


1903 


1905 


1905 


1906 


Thomas Heck 


Begleitung, Op. 68 . . . Dichtung von W. Keilman. Philadelphia: 
Herm Mohr, c1893. Vocal score (41 p.) 
COPY: See OCLC #21423222. 


(OR) West, Charles Th. Columbus in a Merry Key, historical 
comic opera in 5 acts. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger provides the reference and 
gives F. Edwards as the librettist, with the premiere occurring 
in London, 1895. 


(DM) Dogliani, Gianfranco. Cinque cantate nel dramma 
Cristoforo Colombo, del Sac. Gio. Batt. Lemoyne. Torino: 
Calcografia Salesiana, 1896. 35p. 

COPY: CUBG, which gives it the subject heading 
“Operas — Excerpts —vocal scores with piano.” 


(OR) Moore, Homer. Columbus; or, the New World. 

COPY: Not located. Johnson (p. 78) gives the 
premiere as St. Louis, 1903. He writes, “There are Spanish 
and Indian scenes designed to give color. Not intended as 
‘music drama’ but a guiding theme is employed. The choruses 
were considered the most successful part of the work. It was 
sung with the composer in the leading role, assisted by 32 
pupils, and by Charles Kunkel at the piano. Mr. Moore 
traveled widely, and had a long career as a singer, teacher, and 
conductor. . .. He wrote his own librettos.” 


(chorus) Pfitzner, Hans Erich. Columbus; Gedicht von Friedrich 
von Schiller, fiir achtstimmigen Chor a capella, componiert von 
Hans Pfitzner. Op. 16. Berlin: Ries & Erler, c1905. 25 p. Publ. 
no. R. 7832 E. 

COPY: NYPG, DCLC, many other holding libraries cited 
in RLIN & OCLC. 


(OL, English) Stayner, Charles Frederick. Words Only of the 
Romantic Music Drama Columbus. Salt Lake City: C. F. 
Stayner; trade supplied by Breitkopf & Hartel, New York, 
c1905. 31 p. 

COPY: NYPG (microfiche), DCLC . 


(OR) Alessio, Alfredo. Cristoforo Colombo. 
COPY: Not located. Referenced in Stieger, who 
describes it as an opera seria in 4 acts, libretto by Serafino 


1909 


1917 


1920 


1927 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 267 


Riva. Premiered at the Collegio di Filippi, Arona, 14 Feb 
1906. 
(OL) Riva, Serafino. Cristoforo Colombo, dramma in quattro 
atti di Serafino Riva, musica di Alfredo Alessio. Milano: 
Ricordi, 1906. 

COPY: Milano: Archivio Storico Ricordi (thanks to 
Prof. Jiirgen Maehder for this reference). 


(DM) Gaudenzi, Apollo, et al. La Colombeide. 

COPY: Not located. Stieger lists it as a 3-act revue, 
words by Laura Gropallo & Mario Martini, premiered Genoa, 
22 Jul 1909, Lido d’ Albano. 


(cantata) Hosmer, Elmer Samuel. Columbus, a Short Cantata for 
Mixed Voices; Music by E. S. Hosmer; Text by Joaquin Miller. 
Boston: O. Ditson, c1917. 

COPY: See OCLC #19891102. Note that Helen Feder set 
the same text to music in 1936. 


(OVS, Spanish) Soutullo Otero, Reveriano. Las aventuras de 
Colén; humorada en dos actos, divididos en seis cuadros en 
prosa. Misica de Reveriano Soutullo y Bernardino Bautista 
Monterde. Voz y bajo. S.1.: s.e., c1920. 

COPY: NYPG, which describes it as a “skeleton 
score,” i.e. melodic line and text with bass line only. Also 
classed as a zarzuela. 


(OVS, German) Dressel, Erwin. Armer Columbus; die 
Vorgeschichte einer Entdeckung in 8 Bildern, von Arthur 
Zweiniger. Klavierauszug mit Text vom Komponisten. 
Leipzig: s.e., 1927. 182 p. Stamped on t.p.: “Verlagseigentum 
der Universal-Edition, Vienna, Austria." 

COPIES: NYPG, CUBG. The Dictionary Catalog of 
the Music Collection, New York Public Library, refers to an 
article describing the premiere: Gustav Struck, “Armer 
Columbus, die Vorgeschichte einer Entdeckung, 8 Bildern von 
Arthur Zweiniger, Musik von Erwin Dressel. Uraufftihrung im 
Kasseler Staatstheater,” Allgemeine Musikzeitung, 55 (Berlin, 
1928): 217-218. 

(OL, German) The 45-page libretto (same title) was published 
in Vienna: Universal-Edition, c1927. NYPG catalogers 
characterize the work as a comic opera. 


268 


1928 


1930 


1933 


1936 


1939 


Thomas Heck 


(cantata) Hadley, Henry Kimball. The Admiral of the Seas; cantata 
for mixed voices, tenor solo and orchestra; text by Cordelia 
Brooks Fenno. . . . Boston [etc.]: C. C. Birchard & Co., c1928. 43 
p. Plate no. 1379. Piano-vocal score. 

COPY: NYPG (*MP) 


(OVS, German) Milhaud, Darius. Christoph Kolumbus: Oper 
in zwei Teilen und 27 Bildern. Text von Paul Claudel. Deutsch 
von Rudolf Stephan Hoffmann. Wien: Universal-Edition, 
c1930. 2v. German & French edition. 

COPY: Numerous holding libraries in RLIN, OCLC. 
Premiered at the Staatsoper, Berlin, 5 May 1930. 
(OL, German) Claudel, Paul. Christoph Kolumbus: Oper in 
zwei Teilen und 27 Bildern; Dichtung von Paul Claudel, 
deutsch von Rudolf Stephan Hoffmann, Musik von Darius 
Milhaud. Wien: Universal-Edition, c1930 101 p. 

COPY: CUBG, acc. to RLIN. 
(OL, French) Claudel, Paul. Christophe Colomb. Vienne: 
Edition Universelle, c1929. 

COPY: NYPG, acc. to RLIN. 


(OR) Vasilenko, Sergey Nikiforovich. Khristofor Kolumb. 
1933, unpublished. 

COPY: Not located. The librettists were A. Argo and 
S. Antimonov, acc. to Inna Barsova (New Grove Dictionary). 
“Never produced,” acc. to Johnson. 


(cantata) Feder, Helen Catherine. Columbus: a cantata for chorus of 
mixed voices with soprano, tenor, and baritone soli and orchestra. 
DePaul University: M.M. thesis, 1936. 1 score (69 p.). Poem by 
Joaquin Miller. 

COPY: See OCLC #16581227. Note Elmer Hosmer’s 
1917 setting of the same text. 


(OVS, German & English) Zador, Eugene. Columbus; Oper in 
einem Akt (5 Bildern); Text von Erzh. Josef Franz fiir die 
Opernbiihne bearb. von Jeno Mohdcsi. New York: Associated 
Music Publishers, 1939. 122 p. 

COPY? DELC! NYPG" acc. to“ RLIN; CLO acc. to 
OCLC #12013541. The author of the text was Josef Franz, 
Archduke of Austria, b.1895. The opera was premiered in an 
English version over NBC Radio, New York, Oct. 8, 1939. 
Zador completed an oratorio version of this text in 1975, 
published two years before his death (see 1975, infra.). 


1940 


1942 


1942 


1944 


1953 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 269 


(radio play with music) Honegger, Arthur. Christophe Colomb. 
Text by W. Aguet. Premiered April 17, 1940, on Radio Lausanne, 
with Emest Ansermet conducting, acc. to: New Grove; and Richard 
Burbank, Twentieth-Century Music (New York: Facts on File, 
1984), p. 198. 


(OVS, German) Egk, Werner. Columbus, Bericht und Bildnis. 
Text und Musik von Werner Egk. Klavierauszug vom 
Komponisten. Mainz: B. Schott’s Séhne, 1942. Vocal score 
(152 p). 

COPY: NYPG; numerous holding libraries in RLIN. 
Some music catalogers describe this work as a “Singspiel.” 
Johnson gives the premiere as 13 Jan 1942 in Frankfurt, 
calling the work “an ’opera-oratorio’ in three acts with libretto 
by the composer. Written as oratorio for radio in 1932 
(Munich, July 13, 1933), and performed as an opera in 1942; 
revised in 1957. 


(songs) Klinefelter, Walter. Preface to an Unprintable Opus by 
Pedro Pococampo Sometime Professor of Folk Song at the 
University of Ferdinand and Isabella. Portland, ME: privately 
printed, 1942. 3 p. 1., 14 p. “This edition . . . has been prepared 
for the press by Walter Klinefelter. . . . Seventy-five copies have 
been printed by the Southworth-Anthoensen Press . . . in this the 
four hundred and fiftieth year of the discovery of America.” 
Includes tunes and words of one ballad, and words of two others. 
COPY: NYPG (*KP[Southworth]) 


(microtonal music) Carillo, Julian. Preludio a Cristobal Colon. 
New York, c1944. Published in the series: New music; A Quarterly 
of Modern Compositions, v. 17, no. 3 (Apr. 1941). score (7 p.) 

COPY: NYPG. Sixteenth-tone music in composer’s 
number notation. For soprano (vocalise), flute, violin, guitar, 
harp, and octavina. Later edition: Paris: Société des Editions 
Jobert, [1969]. Also at NYPG. 


(OVS, Italian) Nielsen, Riccardo. La via di Colombo; 
radiodramma musicale in 3 parti; testo di A. Piovesan, dal 
racconto di M. Bontempelli. Bologna: Edizioni Bongiovanni, 
[195-]. 84 p. 

COPY: NYPG (*MS). The score states “Premio 
Italia’ 1953 della RAI-TV.” It is described by NYPG cataloger 
as a “radio opera.” 


270 


1962 


es) 


1976 


1976 


1977 


Thomas Heck 


(cantata) Falla, Manuel de, 1876-1946. Atlantida, cantata scenica 
in un prologo e 3 parti; sul poema di Jacinto Verdaguer, opera 
postuma completata da Ernesto Halftter, versione ritmica italiana 
di Eugenio Montale, sceneggiatura e didascalie Margherita 
Wallmann, secondo le annotazioni di Manuel de Falla. Milano: G. 
Ricordi, c1962. 

COPY: NYBS. Premiered in Milan, Teatro alla Scala, 
June 1962. The libretto was adapted by the composer, partially 
based on J. M. Sagarra’s Jocs de les Pléiades and on events in the 
life of Christopher Columbus. A copy at DCLC, dated by 
copyright 1958, is cataloged under ML54.F25A8case. In recent 
correspondence, Prof. Jiirgen Maehder suggests that this work be 
classed a “stage work” because its scenic character is at least as 
pronounced as Stravinsky’s Oedipus rex. 


(oratorio) Zador, Eugene. Christopher Columbus: An Oratorio in 
Four Scenes; for Solo Voices, Mixed Chorus, and Orchestra; 
Libretto by Archduke Joseph Franz; English Translation by 
Josepha Chekova; Vocal Score. San Diego: Music Graphics Press, 
c1975. 99 p. 

COPY: DCLC, NYPG acc. to RLIN. English & German 
text. Note Zador’s use of the same source text in his earlier opera, 
Columbus, of 1939. 


(OVS, English) (Offenbach, Jacques.] Christopher Columbus. 
... London: J. Weinberger, c1978. 

COPY: RLIN cites numerous holding libraries. 
James Anderson, in the Bloomsbury Dictionary of Opera and 
Operetta (London: 1989), calls this four-act operetta a pastiche 
arranged by Patric Schmid of selections from 22 of 
Offenbach’s forgotten operettas: “It is an outrageous and 
riotously funny piece telling of Columbus’s voyage to the 
Americas to discover Coca-Cola!” The libretto is by Don 
White. 


(instrumental) Zonn, Paul. The Voyage of Columbus: For Trumpet 
and Chamber Ensembles. New York: American Composers 
Alliance, c1976. 25 p. (Composers facsimile edition) 

COPY: NYPG, acc. to RLIN. NYPG also possesses a 
photocopy of the holograph, copyright 1975. 


(chorus) Hamilton, Iain. To Columbus: a Setting of Walt 
Whitman's “A Thought of Columbus,” for S. A. T. B., Brass, and 
Percussion. Bryn Mawr: T. Presser Co., c1977. Score (28 p.). Acc. 
arr. for piano and percussion. 

COPY: NYPG, acc. to RLIN. 


1981 


1986 


1991 


1992 


1992 


The Operatic Christopher Columbus 271 


(OL, English) Van Fossen, David. Christopher Columbus; 
Book by Lowell Swortzell; Music by David Van Fossen. 
Denver: Pioneer Drama, c1981. 34 p. 

COPY? (UTBG,. UKBP’ acc. to. RUIN. 
Cataloged as a “musical revue, comedy” and as a “children’s 
play.” 


(OFS) Balada, Leonardo. Cristobal Coldn: opera en dos actos 
(noviemb. 1986). Pittsburgh: Beteca Music, 1989. 1 score (2 
v.). Libretto by Antonio Gala. 

COPY: DCLC, cited in OCLC #23840093. A 1989 
production of this opera reviewed by Octavio Roca in Opera 
news, 54 (Jan 6, 90): 41-42. 


(OFS) Gamberini, Leopoldo. [Opera on Christopher 
Columbus by Prof. Gamberini (Univ. of Genoa), musicologist 
and choral director; completed in 1991, according to 
information communicated to me by letter.] 


(OFS & OL) Glass, Philip. The Voyage. [Announced title.] 

In 1988 the Metropolitan Opera commissioned an 
opera on Christopher Columbus by Philip Glass, on a libretto 
to be written by David Henry Hwang, for the autumn 1992 
season. For details, see article by Allan Kozinn in The New 
York Times 23 Nov. 1988: sec. C, p. 9, col. 6. 


(OFS) Michal, Scott. Cristébal. Libretto by Annabelle 
Staiger. Unpublished, at present. 

COPY: With the author, resident of Columbus, 
Ohio. Described in some detail in “A Columbian opera: 
Crist6bal by Scott Michal and Annabelle Staiger,” Ars musica 
Denver (Fall 1991): 20-29. 


Appendix — Undated and/or Unverified References: 


Anonymous. The Story of Columbus. “Published in New York by D. Longworth, 
1803,” acc. to Johnson (p. 28). 

Branca, Guglielmo, 1849- . Cristoforo Colombo. Opera, premiered in New York, 
according to Stieger; no ¢.te offered. NUC does cite other operas by Branca: 
Figlia di Jorio (Bologna, 1897) and Hermosa (Milano, 1865). Pinto mentions 


Zi2 Thomas Heck 


this opera in his 1934 book. 

Coppola, Pietro Antonio. Cristoforo Colombo (ca. 1854), cited by Johnson. May be 
confused with one R. Coppola whose opera “Cristoforo Colombo,” acc. to 
Caselli, was premiered in Cremona, Teatro Concordia, 1880. 

Fava, Alessandro. J] Colombo (Bologna, 1875), cited by Johnson, who writes, “This 
work was privately produced.” 

Ferreira, D. Columbus, cited by Johnson with the comment, “Two acts, unproduced. 
The composer was Brazilian.” 

Gaspare, Angiolini. La scoperta dell'America (Torino, 1857), cited by Carboni. 
Lacking additional confirmation. 

Giambini, // Colombo. Cited by Johnson as occurring in Parma, 1840: “This was a 
partial performance.” Johnson may have been confused by the Gambini works of 
1845 and 1852, and by the puzzling reference to Sangiorgio Rabiti’s alleged 
premiere (Parma , 1840) of “Il Colombo.” 

Marchisio, Antonio. Cristoforo Colombo, opera by Antonio Marchisio. (Music also 
by him?), premiered 187-? at an unknown place, acc. to Stieger. No Schatz 
libretto exists. 

Segura y Villalba, R. Colon, zarzuela in 3 acts, premiered in Valencia, 188-?, acc. to 
Stieger. 

Villata, Gaspar. Cristobal Colombo. Undated. Johnson writes, “libretto by A. de 
Lauziéres in three acts, Act III taking place in Cuba. See Tolén and GonzAlez for 
further details.” 


Works Cited 


Ademollo, Alessandro. / teatri di Roma nel secolo decimosettimo. . . . Roma, 1888; 
rpt. Bologna: Forni, 1969. 

Angelis, Alberto de. “Cristoforo Colombo ispiratore di musicisti.” Musica d’oggi: 
rassegna di vita e di coltura musicale 9 (Milano, 1927): 71-74. 

. “Crist6bal Colén inspirador de musicos.” Revista de musica 4/3 (Buenos 
Aires, 1930): 87-92. 

Balestri, Giuliano. “Cristoforo Colombo ha ispirato.” La scala; rivista dell’ opera 
(Milano, 1951): 33-36. 

Baroni, Pier Giovanni. Un conformista del secolo diciottesimo: il cardinale Pietro 
Ottoboni. Bologna: Ponte Nuovo,1969. 

Carboni, Piero. Cristoforo Colombo nel teatro. Milano: Treves, 1892. 

COLOMBO, Melodramma Serio in due atti da rappresentarsi NEL TEATRO CARLO 
FELICE la Primavera del 1828, alla presenza delle LL. MM. Genova: Litografia e 
Tipografia Ponthenier, 1828. 

Coulanges, Philippe Emmanuel, Marquis de. Mémoires de m. de Coulanges, suivis de 
lettres inédites de madame de Sévigné, de son fils, de l’abbé de Coulanges. .. . 
Paris: J. J. Blaise, 1820. 

Johnson, H. Earle. Operas on American Subjects. New York: Coleman-Ross, 1964. 

Ferrero, Mercedes Viale. Storia dell’ opera italiana. Pt. 2, vol. 5 (1988). 

Gamberini, Leopoldo. La vita musicale europea del 1800: archivio musicale 





The Operatic Christopher Columbus 273 


genovese. Genova: Universita degli Studi di Genova, 1989. 

Harper, John. “Pasquini, Bernardo.” The New Grove Dictionary of Music and 
Musicians. London: Macmillan, 1980. 

Hartwig, Dieter. ““Morlacchi, Francesco (Giuseppe Baldassare).” The New Grove 
Dictionary of Music and Musicians. London: Macmillan, 1980. 

Marx, Hans Joachim. “Ottoboni, Pietro.” The New Grove Dictionary of Music and 
Musicians. London: Macmillan, 1980. 

Pinto, Alfredo. Cristovao Colombo (estudo musical). Lisbon: Tipografia da Livraria 
Ferin, 1934. 

Pradelini, Crateo [Pietro Ottoboni]. Op. cit. Roma: Gio. Francesco Buagni, 1690. 

Repertoire International de la Presse Musicale. Ann Arbor: UMI, 1988-. 

Sonneck, Oscar G. Catalogue of Opera Librettos Printed Before 1800. Washington, 
DC: Library of Congress, 1914. 

. Early Opera in America. New York: G. Schirmer, 1915. 

Stieger, Franz. Opernlexikon. Tutzing: Hans Schneider, 1975. 

Walker, Thomas. “Opera (II) Italy (1) Origins to Scarlatti.” New Grove Dictionary of 
Music and Musicians. London: Macmillan, 1980. 13: 551. 


274 


Thomas Heck 








L'INDIA SCOPERTA 


DRAMMaA PER MVSICA 


DEDICATO a 


| AUP I luftri[s. e& Eccellenti/s. Sige Principefa 
‘[D.MARIA OTTHOBONI 
‘| DA RAPPRESENTARSI 


Nel Teatro di Tor di Nona 
eat: M. oo ACI. 
~a 





’ 
4 

i 
? 
a4 
; 45 
2 

| 

} 
Ad iftanza di Frances Leone Libraro : 
in Piazza : 
IN ‘ROMA, Per Gio:Francefco Buagni. $4.DC.XC- j 
Con license de? Superiors « a 
<2 ail 


Heck, Fig. 1 





The Operatic Christopher Columbus 275 













a &, dat va yd danleate Ts eo 3 
array arw5) > 


ie Aare aA ffs? An 


alla presenza 





tf we: | 
ografte re Nyegrafia Sih CMLL 


\ y 
a Voy an 4) nee 





Heck, Fig. 2 


276 Thomas Heck 


| ; 13 
BLO L 
SCENA PRIMA. 
Mare immenfo in Calma- 
IC olombo, Anarda,e Fernando con occhia- 


loni di Mare sula prora del gran Va/cel- 
lo,che flan guardando di lontano. 
4 


SS wie 35 IN 
TTO CORTE Col. Afto Mar, fe della Terra 
Sa Pit dilati jl falfo Reguo, 
Pur tu cedi, fe differra 
La fuaforza humano ingegno. 
alto &c. 
4» Tenti in van celar fra Ponda | 
y, Beicoralli, e perle rare; 


he il penfier ha pit profonda 
Sua virtu, che il fen de! Mare. 
sy Tenet &c. , 
Ceffate oldceffate, =. 
. stanchi Nocchier di fofpirare il por- 
Meco piti non formate (to 
uerele, e pianti ; ignota, 


2» 
” 


a bé vicina Terraa nois 
Pdi siinnes hi. 
La gloria folo or di prouar ci refta. 

Anar.Mio Spofo ah ta ben fai 
Quanto di Donna imbelle 
Sij fieuole il vigor,in si grancorfo , 
EB fel’amor di Spofo (onde 
Non mi guidafle 2 forpaffar quelt’ 
Refi- . 


‘apprefta, 


Heck, Fig. 3 


| 





The Operatic Christopher Columbus 277 


faa = f . 29 


ita |! SCENA PRIMA, 
: ; Giardino. 
Ginacra, Anarda. 


. Gite Ome hai tu tanta forza 
Entro di quei bei lumi 
Cheal loro primo giro 
AERTS ha M’accendi, e miconfumi? 
re a i —— An. Signor dalle gran cure 


Del Regno,ede’ Vaflalli 4 


if AGA > | 1 E’d’vopo trauiar la {tanca mente; 
aiee Pero cosi per gioco 
Sogni nel volto mio d’ Amor il foco. 
Per altroso ben’io, 
Che alle Spofe coftanti 
Sond’ Aftloi Regnanti, 
E chetti pia d’ogn’altro 
Nel mar delle fuenture 
Sei Porto per Anarda. 
Gin. Dir, che per gioco auuampi, 
Cheteco mitraftulli, - 
E che de’ graui penfier mieitu fia 
I] piaceuole {cherzo , ¢ offefa mia. 
T’amo da ver, né deue (rifo 
I Numi anch’ vn Regnante auer’ in 
An.Se ttt m’ami da ver,deridi il Cielo, 
os Gin-Eh che il Cielo piu bel, fta nel tuo 
eleae tse vifo. Vie- 





Heck, Fig. 4 


278 Thomas Heck 





— 


IA TTO IL. 
SCENA PRIMA. 


Notte. 






tM HW Ripartita diPrigione orrida, con yeduta di 
Yaa = Cortile. Anarda all’ofcuro legata 
q! con catene ad yn fafJo~ 


4 Ane Otte fofca oh quanto & part 

N Col mio mal portig!’orrori! 
Tu con quelli anneri 1! Mondo, 
To con guefto nel profondo - 
Dei martir, de’ prantiamart, 
Miro eterniimici dolori. 

Notre &Ce 

Spofo, Fernando, Amici, 

Doue doue volgete 

L’orme pietofe ? Anarda 

Sola ne’ fuoi perigli 

Efpofta non curate ? 

Dunque morré , né voi 

Sul cadauere freddo 

Lafciarete cader ftilla di pianto ? 

Doue 6 Colombo fono 

Le (manie per Anarda ? 

Doue fcorre Fernando 

Quel fangue, che tidi¢ la genitrice? 

Gua- 


| 
| 
| 











Heck, Fig. 5 


AN INVITATION TO SUBSCRIBE 


Annali d’Italianistica 


VOLUMES SOLD OUT: 


volume 1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo (unbound photocopy available) 
volume 2 (1984), Guicciardini (unbound photocopy available) 


VOLUMES AVAILABLE: 
volume 3 (1985), Manzoni 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’ Annunzio 
volume 6 (1988), Film and Literature 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
volume 9 (1991), Italy 1991: the Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of Columbus and the New World 

in Italian Literature 


VOLUMES IN PREPARATION: 
volume 11 (1993), Goldoni and 18th-Century Theater 
volume 12 (1994), The Italian Epic & Its European Context 


Subscriptions: Domestic: Regular $12; Institutions $19; back 
issues: add $3 for postage. Foreign subscribers (Canada 
excluded): $21. Checks in U. S. currency should be made 

payable to Annali d’Italianistica, CB # 3170, 141 Dey Hall, The 

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 

27599-3170. 


Subscriber: 
Name 

Address 

Check enclosed 


ISSN 0741-7527 


Paolo A. Giordano 


Images of America and Columbus 
in Italian/American Literature! 


Quae regio in terris nostri non plena laboris? 

(Vergil, Aeneid 1: 460) 

"Da quando Colombo scopri 1’America, un abisso fu al di 1a del quale gli uomini 
possono gettarsi e diventare altri. . . .” “Di tutte le lontananze, l'America é la pit vera 
ed esemplare.” 

(Mario Soldati, America primo amore, Milano: Mondadon, 1967, p. 33) 


From the day Christopher Columbus encountered the “New World,” Italy and her 
people have been strongly influenced by the social and economic history of the 
American continent. Across the centuries, sailing in the wake of Columbus in 
search of a dream, Italians have played an important role in shaping the destiny 
of America. And yet, until recently their social, economic, cultural, and literary 
history had all but been neglected by the dominant American culture. 

During the early period of exploration and colonization, while England, 
France, and Spain were involved in dividing up the continent among themselves, 
Italian adventurers and explorers were employed in the service of these countries, 
and Italian missionaries were busy at work converting Native Americans to 
Christianity. The eighteenth and nineteenth centuries saw an increasing number 
of Italians coming to America. These new immigrants included writers, 
musicians, philosophers, political thinkers and political refugees, but for the 
most part they were farmers and skilled artisans who introduced the art of glass 
blowing, vine growing, and the silk industry to the new land. Although the 
history of Italians in America up to the Civil War is interesting and important, 
it is the next wave of immigrants that exercised the greatest impact on the social 
fabric of American society. From 1880 to the 1920s immigration trends changed 
dramatically. Until 1880 it has been estimated that close to 60,000 Italians called 
the United States their home. That figure was matched in three years, 1880- 
1882, and what was once a trickle of immigration became a veritable flood, with 


1 Within the context of this paper, when I refer to Italian/American literature, I am limiting myself 
to the literature produced by Italian immigrants, and not to that body of Italian/American literature 
produced by second and third generation Italian-Americans. In this essay I use a slash instead of a 
hyphen for Italian/American to rid the political and cultural dependency of the word Italian in 
relationship to American that is communicated by the employment of the hyphen. For an in-depth 
analysis of this issue see Tamburri, To Hyphenate or not to Hyphenate. 








Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 281 


the high point in 1907, when 285,000 Italians arrived in the United States.2 
Some were professors, scientists, doctors; many were craftsmen who came to ply 
their trade — marble cutters, textile workers, tailors, barbers, masons, and 
bricklayers. But the great majority were poor, illiterate, unskilled cafoni who 
came from the impoverished regions of southern Italy and the island of Sicily. 
They suffered from lack of representation in the fledgling Italian Kingdom, and 
had one of the lowest living standards of all European peasants — the forgotten 
masses of Italian society. Most of these people had never experienced anything 
but the immediate surroundings of their village. 

Just like Columbus, the emigrant/immigrant undertook a voyage towards 
the unknown, his/her imagination fueled by stories of riches and by second- and 
third-hand accounts of life in the New World. Many had no idea of what America 
was like or what to expect once they arrived. Constantine Panunzio, in his 
Autobiography of an Immigrant, gives an interesting and amusing account of his 
image of America as a young boy living in Molfetta: 


Of course like every Italian boy, I had heard from earliest childhood of America, the 
continent which “Colombo,” one of our country men discovered. However, my idea of 
America was as misty as that of the Old World on the day when Columbus returned 
from his famous voyage. Rubbing its eyes and stretching out its arms as if awakening 
from a sleep of centuries, it realized that a new day had dawned in the history of 
mankind. We used to sing a song; it was about thirty stanzas long, and it told all the 
story of that famous voyage, but it had nothing in it about the continent he had 
found, or what was on that continent in our day. Like every boy who goes through the 
third grade of Italian schools, I had read the story of America in De Amicis’ famous 
book, // cuore. But while that story, “From the Apennines to the Andes,” is one of 
unexcelled imaginative beauty, it gives little or no details of the country beyond the 
setting sun, of its people, its institutions, its life in general. Moreover, that story 
deals with South America rather than North America. 

(59-60) 


And years later, as a young man preparing for his own personal encounter with 
America, Panunzio writes: 


Now it does not require a great artist nor a great stretch of the imagination to piece 
together and create a picture of America as I saw it when I tumed my steps westward; it 
was a great country, vast in its proportions, vaguely beautiful, covered with forests, 
leisurely winding rivers and great stretches of farm lands. There were some large cities 
like Montevideo or Boston, a little larger perhaps than Genoa, or Naples, and all 
belonging to the same country. It was so hot that persons working in the fields 
became blind from sunstroke. In that country lived many pirates who attacked 
passing ships; dirty drunken sailors who spoke a barbarian tongue; the Indians, who 


2 These figures are reported in numerous studies dealing with immigration (Foster, Musmanno; 
Pisani). 


282 Paolo A. Giordano 


were sort of wild creatures on the order of cannibals. People from Molfetta went there 
and made much money. 
(64-65) 


As a boy, Constantine Panunzio began to hear the calling of the sea (Chapter 
Two), mainly as a sign of rebellion against his grandmother’s and father’s 
wishes to make of him “first priest, then teacher, and then statesman” (48). 
Through the symbol of the sea, Panunzio is drawn topologically towards 
America, as William Boelhower writes in Immigrant Autobiography in the 
United States: 


Then, through expository frames of legend and rumor typical of immigrant 
autobiographies, he amplifies his dream image in terms of a founding cultural myth. 
“Of course, like every Italian boy, I had heard from earliest childhood of America, the 
continent which ‘Colombo’ one of our countrymen, had long ago discovered.” .. . 
Through the praxis of allusion that characterizes this fabula dynamic, Panunzio is 
establishing for his reader the equivalence: Panunzio = Columbus = America-as-idea. 
(59-73) 


America, Panunzio, and all emigrants have Columbus in common, and 
“Panunzio the sailor,” and all emigrants “will rediscover America according to 
the original historical act.” Just as “Columbus helped to change a temporally 
conceived Utopia (the Golden Age, Arcadia) into a spatially conceived one, thus 
converting ideal geography into an inhabitable land” (Boelhower 73), the 
emigrants left their homes, braved the uncertainties of emigration, and came to 
the United States attracted by their own “temporally conceived Utopia,” the myth 
of America and the dream of a better life. Upon arrival to the New World, this 
“temporally conceived utopia” became a “spatially conceived one,” which, upon 
contact with the New World reality was quickly stripped of its ideal 
connotations, as Terry Coleman writes in Going to America: 


It was an old superstition, sometimes half believed by the simplest emigrants, that 
the streets of New York were paved with gold. When they got there they learned three 
things: first, that the streets were not paved with gold; second, that the streets were 
not paved at all; and third, that they were expected to pave them. 

(207-08) 


As time passed, a few of these emigrants/immigrants began to record their 
experiences and those of their countrymen. The earliest of these written 
expressions are the above mentioned Soul of an Immigrant, the autobiography of 
Constantine Panunzio, published in 1921 by McMillan, and Pascal D’ Angelo’s 
memoirs Son of Italy, also published by McMillan in 1924. From these humble 
unpretentious beginnings, a literature began to evolve around the Italian 
immigrant. Developing in different stages, this new literary production, which 


Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 283 


we call Italian/American literature and is a category within the “kaleidoscopic 
socio-cultural mosaic” of American literature,> documented the history of Italian 
immigration and the presence of Italians in America.4 

From this intensely autobiographical literature we have learned about the 
immigrants’ struggle against racist stereotypes and their fight for economic 
security and social acceptance. We have also learned that for the 
emigrant/immigrant the “Columbian” voyage of encounter and discovery takes 
more than one form. First and foremost, the emigrant/immigrant must face and 
come to terms with the actual, physical separation from the country of birth, as 
well as from family and friends. This most evident element of the 
emigration/immigration process is initially the most traumatic. When the 
emigrants arrive in the new country, their voyage is not over, for in many ways 
it has just begun. They must then undertake other “voyages” in their quest to 
assimilate into mainstream American culture. The most important of these 
“voyages” is the linguistic/cultural one, for they must immediately begin the 
journey from their language, one of the many Italian dialects, to another, 
American English. They must begin to set aside the old ways in order to learn 
new ones, because this is precisely what the dominant culture demands in order 
to be accepted by it as one of its own. As the emigrants begins their journey, 
their expectation is that the new reality — the life in the New World — will be 
an ideal one. As they experience America, a transformation invariably takes 
place: as the new idealized reality becomes an experienced reality, their separation 
from the Old World, its language and its customs becomes problematic and sets 
off an emotional response that leaves the immigrant suspended between two 
worlds. “Song of the Bicentennial, “ a highly autobiographical poem that opens 
Joseph Tusiani’s collection Gente mia and Other Poems, examines precisely the 
themes mentioned above, leaving the reader with a somber awareness of what it 
means to be an immigrant: 


3 For a clearer understanding of the place of Italian/American literature within the context of 
American literature see: Tamburri; Gardaphé. 

The first book-length study on Italian/American literature was Peragallo’s /talian American 
Authors and Their Contribution to American Literature. Fifteen years later Basile Green published 
The Italian-American Novel: A Document of the Interaction of Two Cultures, where she classifies 
the history of Italian/American narrative into four stages: 1) The need for assimilation; 2) a phase 
of “revulsion,” 3) followed by one of “counterrevulsion” and finally 4) “rooting.” Since the 
publication of Basile Green’s book a number of important studies have appeared: Viscusi’s “De 
vulgari eloquentia: An Approach to the Language of Italian American Fiction,” Barolini’s The 
Dream Book: An Anthology of Writing by Italian American Women, and the recent publications of 
From the Margin: Writings in Italian Americana, and La letteratura dell'emigrazione. Scrittori di 
lingua italiana ne mondo. Also, the resumption of publication by /talian Americana and the 
establishment of V/A: Voices in Italian Americana and la bella figura bear witness to the continued 
rise in interest in the critical study of Italian/American culture. 


284 Paolo A. Giordano 


Then who will solve this riddle of my day? 

Two languages, two lands, perhaps two souls... 
Am I a man or two strange halves of one? 
somber, indifferent light, 

setting before me with a sneer of glow, 

because there is no answer to my plight. 

(Gente Mia 7) 


There is no answer to the “riddle” because for most immigrants the voyage is 
never quite complete. The feeling of being suspended between two worlds and 
two cultures will eventually lead the immigrant to reverse the process and 
idealize the “Old World”: 


*Twas my presepe, full of 
tu scendi dalle stelle — 
the only song and rule of 
intime cose belle. 
(Gente Mia 6) 


For the immigrant’s adopted land, “the western world, this new,/ mysterious 
Atlantis,” this nation of immigrants, is presented by Tusiani as cold and 
unfeeling, a place where the immigrant does not belong: 


where men like me and you, 
called immigrants, are silent 
when Silent Night is sung 
on this Manhattan Island 

by all save those, like me 
and you, uprooted friend, 
who think of Italy — 

our lost presepe land. 
(Gente Mia 6; emph. mine) 


Once “the western world, this new,/ mystcrious Atlantis,” has been discovered, 
the mystery of America and Manhattan — Atlantis — dissipates. Thus the 
immigrant’s experienced reality becomes one of emargination, of being “‘silent” 
while the voices of others are being heard. The reality left behind, Italy with her 
poverty and desperation, is now forgotten, and Italy is now idealized in the poet’s 
mind as a Paradise lost, the “lost presepe land”: 


My long lost land was one that, 
when snows enveloped it, 

did not erase a sun that 

still in my dream was lit. 
(Gente Mia 6) 





Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 285 


Tusiani is one of the few Italian/American writers who looks at the question 
of language as a spiritual dilemma instead of a sociological problem. (Tusiani 
153). When the emigrant, after a long and wearisome crossing, arrived at Ellis 
Island, s/he was immediately faced with the first major obstacle of his/her new 
American life: a strange language. The question of language, or, rather, loss of 
language, is of primary importance to our poet when discussing the experience 
of emigration. Tusiani introduces this argument in “Song of the Bicentennial” 
by a series of questions: 


Do I regret my origins by speaking 

this language I acquired? Do I renounce, 

by talking now in terms of only dreams, 

the sogni of my childhood? What has changed 
that I had thought unchangeable in me? 
(Gente Mia 5) 


The answer to these questions is that something has changed and that every 
phrase, every word uttered in English separates him further still from his roots: 


Now every thought I think, each word I say 
detaches me a little more from all 


I used to love — 
(Gente Mia 5) 


For Tusiani, when “sogni” become dreams, “cielo” becomes sky, and 
“mamma” is translated into mother, much more transpires than the immigrant’s 
linguistic process of Americanization and acculturation. Tusiani, who, besides 
being a poet, has had a long and successful career as a professor of Italian 
language and literature, as a scholar, and as a translator of Italian classics, knows 
full well the importance of words. Tusiani is fully aware that the ideas and the 
cultural values transmitted through words go much more deeply than the formal 
definitions found in dictionaries: the Italian “cielo” elicits mythicized visions of 
the old world, whereas the English “sky” only reminds the immigrant of the 
ghetto in the immense concrete jungle he now calls home; “mamma,” when 
translated into mother, loses that “whole world of feelings and traditions” 
(Tusiani 154) the immigrant had felt and stored since the years in his homeland. 
Ultimately, the “disintegration of family unity becomes an altogether 
unpremeditated adverse effect” of immigration: 


Mother, I even wonder if I am 

the child I was, the little child you knew, 
for you did not expect your little son 

to grow apart from all that was your world. 


286 Paolo A. Giordano 


Yet of a sudden he was taught to say 
“Mother” for mamma, and for cielo “sky.” 
That very day, we lost each other... 
(Gente Mia 5) 


Loss of the Italian language is for Tusiani “a betrayal or denial of his original 
world — indeed his very origin, his very self” (Tusiani 153-54). 

In the end, for many, the experience of immigration can be best summed up 
by Emilio Speciale’s poignant poem, “II barbiere dei due mondi.”> Speciale’s 
barbiere has achieved the American dream of financial security, all of the 
trappings of success are his: “il letto grande . . . troppo grande per la sua 
misura,” “la macchina . . . anch’essa grande,” which takes him to his “salone 
tutto di vetri e tanto sapone.” Materially he has come a long way since leaving 
the “old country,” but his fate is very much like Tusiani’s immigrant. Speciale’s 
“barbiere dei due mondi” is also caught between two radically different cultures: 


Costui é il barbiere dei due mondi, di quello dei castelli in aria 

di quello delle macchine e dei letti grandi, il barbiere con due scarpe 
"Conosciuto che hai due mondi — mi disse malinconico un giomnmo — 
sei fottuto nella testa, spaesato nel tuo lettone, ti metti a comprare 
uva per farti il tuo vino e t’inganni perché quello non é lo stesso 
niente piu é lo stesso: dovunque ti trovi trovi i segni della differenza. 
(emphasis mine) 


Speciale’s barbiere tries to maintain a certain degree of similarity by practicing 
the same profession he practiced in Italy (“perché allo stesso mestiere era 
indirizzato”), and by continuing to make wine (“ti metti a comprare/ uva per farti 
il tuo vino”). That is, he tries to recreate the elements of a culture he knows and 
loves, but he deceives himself because his attempts at maintaining that degree of 
sameness cannot be but superficial. The reality of his life as an immigrant is 
that everything around him has changed (“dovunque ti trovi trovi i segni della 
differenza”) but he has not, and he will never be truly at home in America. 


% 


Thus a significant amount of the literary production of the Italian 
emigrant/immigrant is highly autobiographical; furthermore, many of these 
writers use the image or notion of Columbus and his voyage as the underlying 
metaphor for the emigrant traveller undertaking his own journey to the “new 
world.”. At the same time, a number of texts explicitly deal with the spirit and 
image of Columbus. Two of these are Joseph Tusiani’s “Columbus Day in New 


5 This poem is included in Viscusi’s article “La letteratura dell'emigrazione italiana negli Stati 
Uniti.” 


Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 287 


York” from the collection Gente Mia and Other Poems, and Anne Paolucci’s 
“Countdown: 1992” from her collection Gorbachev in Concert and Other 
Poems). 

In “Columbus Day in New York,” Tusiani’s theme is the Columbus Day 
celebrations that take place in large urban centers all across America to honor the 
immigrant hero, the one who “came to dig.” Much different from the ee 
described in the “The Day After the Feast,” also included in Gente Mia © (a 
celebration of the feast of Our Lady of Mount Carmel in the Italian 
neighborhood of Arthur Avenue in the Bronx), Columbus day festivities have 
very little to do with Italian culture and traditions. Thus, as the poet clearly 
states, the “epic” journey of Columbus is 


reduced to an innocuous parade 

where mayoral dreamers grin in competition, 
endorsed (or almost) by the Governor, 

and politicians who are neither-nor 

turn on Italian smiles as cars’ ignition. 
(Gente Mia 10) 


The poet chooses to look beyond the superficiality of the day (the politicians’ 
smiles, the floats, the beauty queens) and sing about the true hero of the day — 
the immigrant laborer with callous hands who worked and died to make America 
what it is, and who is not yet recognized as “one of her children”: 


OUR GPRS TERRE CRC ee This is gente mia, 
for I can see (is there a lump in my throat?) 
dear Christopher Columbus on a float 
called for all time to come Santa Maria. 


How beautiful he beams! He has the eyes 
of my Grandfather, and his callous hand; 
he is the immigrant of every land 
unhappy in his happy paradise, 


misunderstood in all this understanding. 
(Gente Mia 10) 


In this poem, Columbus, the Santa Maria, and the Grandfather are the 
powerful signifiers that synthesize the history of Italian immigration to the 
United States. Columbus, the “discoverer” of the New World, is the primordial 
immigrant, the first to introduce Europe to the New World, and the New World 


© For a fuller discussion of this poem see my "From Southern Italian Emigrant to Reluctant 
American: Joseph Tusiani's Gente Mia and Other Poems.” 


288 Paolo A. Giordano 


to Curope. This act burdens the name of Columbus with an additional level of 
signification: being the “first” emigrant/immigrant, Columbus has come to 
personify the destiny of every person that follows him. Columbus’ caravel the 
Santa Maria has also varying levels of signification. On one level, the Santa 
Maria clearly represents all the ocean liners, steamers and cargo ships that 
brought Europeans to America. On a different level, the Santa Maria also 
symbolizes the religion of the emigrant, his faith: she is the primordial religious 
mother who escorts the emigrant safely to his/her destination. Finally, the third 
signifier, the grandfather (“the new Columbus”) represents all immigrants that 
have come to the shores of America in search of the dream. He is 


in all the greatness of his humble past — 
the new Columbus conquering new York. 


He brings the best credentials to be he — 
faith in his glance to win the fighting waves, 
dream of free people and despair of slaves 

to conquer a new land ultimately. 


So here he is today, today at last 
riding atop his bright Santa Maria, 

the navigator of the gente mia, 

light of my future, darkness of his past, 
(Gente Mia 10-11; emphasis mine) 


The Grandfather figure is the symbol of all the immigrants that have come to 
this country (“the navigator of the gente mia”), who through their sacrifice and 
suffering (“darkness of his past”) made a better life possible (“light of my 
future”) for those who follow. They are, for one fleeting day, remembered and 
given their rightful place. 

The pomp and gaiety of the Columbus Day festivities cannot hide a bitter 
truth, and the poem ends on a cruel note. The recognition is temporary, “he is 
the one no crowd will cheer / tomorrow when the town goes back to work”; and 
his destiny is one that robs him of the dignity of his existence: 


the one who came to dig (for dig we must) 
for the high glory of the subway tracks 
the immigrant who dies and yet still lacks 
identity with this American dust. 

(Gente Mia, 10-11; emphasis mine) 


Tusiani’s poem accomplishes two things: it reminds America of what Italians 
have achieved in the new land, and it synthesizes the despair and frustration of 
being a misunderstood immigrant in a land of immigrants. 

Whereas Tusiani’s poem focuses on the condition of being an immigrant, 


Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 289 


Anne Paolucci’s poem, “Countdown: 1992,” links the reader with the mythical 
past and the age of exploration. 

In each initial line of the first four stanzas, the poem’s first person narrator 
addresses the reader. But one does not know who the narrator is. Is it Columbus, 
the poet, or someone else? Or perhaps the emigrant? Thus the questions asked by 
the Columbus/Poet/Emigrant narrator — “You ask what I felt?”; “You ask what 
I want?”; “You ask what I dream?”; “Who else dares (you ask?)” — elicit 
responses which project the reader towards new horizons and new frontiers to be 
conquered. There is no longing for terra firma in these verses, no longing to 
belong to a group or community, no longing for an end to the voyage: 


You ask what I felt? 

My tracks are epic, I’m told, 
But, really, I stumbled into fame. 
Shores are simply a need 

A lure, a claim. 


You ask what I want? 

Oceans closing behind me, 

Wind singing before me 

Filling canvas with promise. 

On land I grow dizzy, 

My shadow on the ground tells me 
I have yet to keep my bargain. ... 


You ask what I dream? 

A map that proves me right, 
The Heavens charted, 

Another ocean sea to the moon, 
New storms to be outraced, 

I long for grace of waters 

Softly folded sleep. 


Who else dares (you ask?) 

Ah, many sought new lands 

Sifted through so many sands 

Back to the sea ! Even Ulysses 

Sailed the length of Venus 

And measured his will against the sky, 
Every star fixed to his purpose, 

His orbit. 

(Countdown: 1992” 12) 


Paolucci’s narrator yearns for the adventure, the quest. The discovery is the 
accomplishment in itself. Her narrator is the dreamer, the Dantean Ulysses who 


290 Paolo A. Giordano 


has “sought many lands / sifted through many sands” and “measured his will 
against the sky.” S/he is the one who, when s/he looks at the stars sees 
“Another ocean sea to the moon,” and “New storms to be outraced.” In sharp 
contrast, when Tusiani fixes his gaze on the stars in his “Song of the 
Bicentennial” he is reminded of the brutal reality of immigration: 


The shape — let me be wondering about 

the shape of the stars that glow, 

for something tells me that I too was born 
under the sign of one 

formed like an ocean liner going far, 
crowded with silent men called immigrants — 
my ethnic star. 

(Gente Mia 4) 


The deliberation of the “ethnic star” “formed like an ocean liner” is not a simple 
romantic notion of adventure to far off uncharted places, but the contemplation 
of the reality of the Southern Italian condition in the late nineteenth and the first 
half of the twentieth centuries, when, for hundreds of thousands, emigration was 
the only escape from a life of abject poverty. 

In the second part of Paolucci’s poem, the Columbus/poet/emigrant narrator 
reflects on the polemic that has grown around Columbus’ voyage to the New 
World and, I believe, vindicates its legitimacy as a discovery: 


Touching land is daily bread. 
What matters is definition 
Of the event 
Giving birth is only the first 
Dim sighting of earth. 
(“Countdown: 1992” 13) 





That other explorers may have sailed to the “New World” before Columbus is of 
secondary importance because it was Columbus’ voyage that introduced Europe 
to the new continent and the new continent to Europe, and ultimately changed 
the course of the world. It was he who gave “definition” to the event. It was 
Columbus’ landing in the New World that greatly influenced the fortunes of 
nations: some became powerful and rich, while others lost their place of 
prominence. And it was Columbus’ encounter with the “New World” that would, 
unknowingly to him, start the machine in motion that eventually destroyed the 
civilizations of its native inhabitants, while at the same time the New World 
became the aspiration of the hundreds of thousands of Europe’s poor, politically 
oppressed and religious outcasts: “Indians were there to greet me/ (As Indians are 
there in India),/ Unthinking, unknowing;/ I thought out their life,/ Ours too, and 
all to come — —” (13). 








Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 291 


The poem ends as it begins, with a question, except that this time no 
answer is offered by the Columbus/poet/emigrant narrator: 


Well, we know the rest. 

So: let me ask you this, 

Is reaching Ithaca really best? 
(Countdown: 1992” 13) 


I would like to propose that there are two answers to this question, one for each 
of the poem’s two parts. For the first part, which ends with the fourth stanza, I 
would venture to propose a negative answer: reaching Ithaca is not best. For here 
the narrator, like Ulysses, is always in search of the unknown. Since s/he is the 
narrator of the never-ending voyage, reaching home, Ithaca, means attaining the 
final destination and hence no more frontiers to explore, no more quests to 
pursue, and probably the end of the narrator’s voice as well. 

The answer for the poem’s second part, which begins with “Touching land 
is daily bread,” is a much more complex issue. In this section of the poem Ithaca 
symbolizes America, the “new Atlantis.” Here we are faced with a more 
reflective and somber narrator who has come to a full understanding of the 
importance of the discovery of America and of all the good and the evil that has 
come with it. S/he fully understands the tragic irony of America; namely, that 
the religious outcasts, the politically oppressed, and the poor who came from 
Europe in search of freedom and prosperity are the same ones that committed 
genocide of the native inhabitants and systematically destroyed their 
civilizations. Also, s/he fully understands the tragedy of emigration, of the hope 
of building a better life and the despair of families divided, of homes and friends 
left behind. The narrator of this part of the poem feels the immense burden of 
this legacy. “Is reaching Ithaca really best?” Every reader must decide. 

Paolucci and Tusiani — both born in Italy, both professors, she of English 
and he of Italian, both established scholars and writers — take different 
approaches in their literary interpretation of the Columbian/Emigrant voyage. In 
“Countdown: 1992,” Paolucci blends Homeric overtones with allusions to 
Dante’s Ulysses, who dared not to stop at the columns of Hercules in his quest 
for knowledge. Thus she writes a poem that projects the reader into a future of 
never ending frontiers to be conquered and quests to be fulfilled while vindicating 
Columbus’ discovery of New World and calling on the reader to reflect on the 
positive and negative aspects of this discovery for the world and its people. On 
the other hand, Tusiani in “Columbus Day in New York,” places his poem in 
contemporary American culture and in the reality of immigrant life. Tusiani’s 
main emphasis is not to dwell on Columbus the historical figure, but to sing 
the praises of the humble immigrant who has come to this land “to dig,” the 
immigrant who “still lacks / identity with this American dust.” In Tusiani’s 
poem the Grandfather figure becomes the new Columbus. With him, as with all 


292 Paolo A. Giordano 


immigrants, the Columbian voyage is reenacted and America is rediscovered. 
Loyola University Chicago 


Works Cited 


Barolini, Helen. The Dream Book: An Anthology of Writing by Italian American 
Women. New York: Schocken: 1985. 

Boelhower, William. Jmmigrant Autobiography in the United States. Verona: Essedue 

Edizioni, 1982. 

Coleman, Terry. Going to America. New York: Pantheon Books, 1972. 

Foster, Robert. /talian Emigration of our Times. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1919. 

From the Margin: Writings in Italian Americana. Ed. Anthony Tamburrti, Paolo A. 
Giordano and Fred Gardaphé. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1991. 

Gardaphé, Fred. “Visibility and Invisibility: The Postmodern Prerogative in the 
Italian/American Narrative.” Almanacco 2.1 (1992): 24-33. 

Giordano, Paolo A. “From Souther Italian Emigrant to Reluctant American: Joseph 
Tusiani’s Gente Mia and Other Poems. From the Margin: Writings in Italian 
Americana. Ed. Anthony J. Tamburri, Paolo A. Giordano, and Fred L. Gardaphé. 
West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1991. 316-28. 

Green, Rose Basile. The Italian-American Novel: A Document of the Interaction of 
Two Cultures. Madison, NJ: Fairleigh Dickinson UP, 1974. 

Italian Ethnics: Their Languages, Literatures and Lives. Proceedings of the 20th 
Annual Conference of the American Italian Historical Association. Ed. Dominic 
Candeloro, Fred L. Gardaphé and Paolo A. Giordano. November 11-13, 1987. 
Staten Island, NY: Italian American Historical Association, 1987. 

La letteratura dell’emigrazione. Scrittori di lingua italiana nel mondo. Ed. Jean- 
Jacques Marchand. University of Losanne, May 30-June 2, 1990. Torino: 
Edizioni della Fondazione Giovanni Agnelli, 1992. 

Musmanno, Michael. The Italians in America. New York: Doubleday, 1965. 

Panunzio, Constantine. The Soul of an Immigrant. New York: Amo Press and the New 
York Times, 1969. (Reprint of McMillan 1928.) 

Paolucci, Anne. “Countdown: 1992.” Gorbachev in Concert (and Other Poems). 
Whitestone, NY: Griffon House Publications, 1991. 12-13. 

Peragallo, Olga. Jtalian American Authors and Their Contribution to American 
Literature. New York: Vanni, 1949. 

Pisani, Lawrence. The Italian in America: A Social Study and History. New York: 
Exposition Press, 1957. 

Speciale, Emilio. “Il barbiere dei due mondi.” Viscusi. “La letteratura.” 136. 

Tamburri, Anthony. “In (Re)cognition of Italian/American Literature: Definitions and 
Categories.” Beyond the Margin: Further Essays in Italian Americana. Ed. Paolo 
Giordano, Fred Gardaphé, and Anthony Tamburri (forthcoming). 

. To Hyphenate or not to Hyphenate. Montreal: Guernica Press, 1991. 

Tusiani, Joseph. Gente Mia and Other Poems. Stone Park, IL: Italian Cultural Center, 
1981. 

. “The Themes of Deracination and Americanization in Gente Mia and Other 

Poems.” Ethnic Groups 4.3 (1982): 149-76. 








Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 293 


Viscusi, Robert. “De vulgari eloquentia: An Approach to the Language of Italian 
American Fiction.” Yale University Studies 1.3 (1981): 21-38. 
. “La letteratura dell’emigrazione italiana negli Stati Uniti” La letteratura 
dell’ emigrazione 125-37. 


* 


Appendix 


COLUMBUS DAY IN NEW YORK 
by Joseph Tusiani 


Poor joel Barlow, your Columbiad 
unwrote itself for lack of salty spray. 
Here is the epic of Columbus Day 
reduced to an innocuous parade 


where mayoral dreamers grin in competition, 
endorsed (or almost) by the Governor, 

and politicians who are neither-nor 

turn on Italian smiles as cars’ ignition. 


It does not matter. This gente mia, 

for I can see (is there a lump in my throat?) 
dear Chirstopher Columbus on a float 
called for all time to come Santa Maria. 


How beautiful he beams! He has the eyes 
of my Grandfather, and his callous hand; 
he is the immigrant of every land 
unhappy in his happy paradise, 


misunderstood in all this understanding 

gold of the Indian summer round his brow, 
unable to forget the Ocean now 

when he should but recall the joy of landing. 


Look closer! There’s Grandfather, come this year 
to represent Columbus on his float. 

A hero and the worthiest of note, 

he is the very one no crowd will cheer 


294 


Paolo A. Giordano 


tomorrow when the town goes back to work; 
but look at him today, today at last, 

in all the greatness of his humble past 
the new Columbus conquering New York. 








He brings the best credentials to be he 
faith in his glance to win the fighting waves, 
dream of free people and despair of slaves 

to conquer a new land ultimately. 


So here he is today, today at last, 
riding atop his bright Santa Maria, 

the navigator of the gente mia, 

light of my future, darkness of his past, 


the one who comes to dig (for dig we must) 
for the high glory of the subway tracks, 

the immigrant who died and yet still lacks 
identity with his American dust. 


Images of America and Columbus in Italian/American Literature 295 


COUNTDOWN: 1992 
by Anne Paolucci 


You ask what I felt? 

My tracks are epic, I’am told, 
But, really, I stumbled into fame. 
Shores are simply a need, 

A lure, a claim. 


You ask what I want? 

Oceans closing behind me, 

Wind singing before me 

Filling canvas with promise. 

On land I grow dizzy, 

My shadow on the ground tells me 
I have yet to keep my bargain... . 


You ask what i dream? 

A map that proves me right, 
The Heavens charted, 

Another ocean sea to the moon, 
New Storms to be outraced, 

I long for grace of waters 

Softly folded over sleep. 


Who else dares (you ask?) 

Ah, many sought new lands 

Sifted through so many sands 

Back to the sea! Even Ulysses 

Sailed the lenght of Venus 

And measured his will against the sky, 
Every star fixed to his purpose, 

His orbit. 


Touching land is daily bread. 
What matters is definition 
Of the event —— 

Giving birth is only the first 
Dim sighting of earth. 


296 


Paolo A. Giordano 


Land scattered before me 

Each time I tried; 

I battered my way through a wall 

Of islands strung out to wear me down —— 
Indians were there to greet me 

(As Indians are there in India), 

Unthinking, unknowing; 

I thought out their life, 

Ours too, and all to come —— 

Surely that’s worth something? 


Well, we know the rest. 
So: Let me ask you this, 
Is reaching Ithaca really best? 








University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 


The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 
1909, links its distinguished past of internationally known 
faculty and alumni to a lively and timely intellectual exchange 
in the present. The Department offers M.A. degrees in French, 
Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. The Ph.D. degree is offered in 
French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and in Romance 
Philology. 


Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. René Girard is a Distinguished 
Adjunct Professor of Romance Languages. 


Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispanofila, and Annali d’Italianistica. 


Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 3,000,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. The Cooperative purchasing and borrowing 
programs with Duke University and North Carolina State University give easy 
access to those holdings that complement the University of North Carolina 
libraries. 


Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers 
numerous fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit 
Fellowships (including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-15,000; in 
addition to teaching stipends of $3,200 per section per semester, endowments 
enables the Department to offer supplemental scholarships of $1,000-2,000 to 
qualified students. Most students teach two or three sections of beginning 
language courses per academic year, according to their teaching experience and 
the University’s needs. 


Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to 
the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by 
writing to: The Graduate Secretary, Department of Romance Languages and 
Literatures, CB # 3170, 238 Dey Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 
Applicants requesting fellowships and assistantships must submit admission 
materials by February 1. 





Paolo Valesio 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 


Il fallut que Colomb partit avec des fous pur découvnir 1’ Amérique. 
Et voyez comme cette folie a pris corps, et duré. 
(André Breton, Premier manifeste du surréalisme [1924]) 


L’anniversario colombiano é trascorso in un’atmosfera di un certo disagio 
internazionale. Non intendo discutere le motivazioni e i sintomi di questo 
disagio, ma mi limito a una constatazione: chi ha fatto le spese di questa 
problematizzazione é stata la cultura italiana americana, la quale rischia ancora 
una volta d’allontanarsi dalle sue radici (dunque, dalla sua forza), se si lascia 
trascinare dalle correnti dell’ alienazione ideologica. E necessario resistere a questa 
deriva, e il saggio presente é un contributo a questa resistenza. Contributo, 
beninteso, dai limiti ben precisi. Esso discute infatti un fenomeno culturale che é 
legato all’impresa di Cristoforo Colombo in modo solamente indiretto, ma non 
per questo meno significativo. Si tratta di considerare uno degli aspetti del 
retaggio esplorativo di questa grande esplorazione: alcuni dei modi, cioé, in cui la 
poesia italiana contemporanea ha riscoperto e continuamente riscopre il Nuovo 
Mondo, operando nel concreto contesto vivente di questo Nuovo Mondo. 

La vera poesia, al suo livello fondante e fondamentale, rifiuta qualsiasi 
legame troppo esplicito di tipo geografico, politico, sociale. Pud sembrare, 
questa appena detta, una constatazione semplice; e non lo é. Pud sembrare un 
concetto risaputo; e invece mai come oggi é importante ribadirlo. Perché tante 
incrostazioni ideologiche hanno reso difficile, negli ultimi tempi, tener chiara 
dinanzi agli occhi la radicale libertad che é implicita nella poesia. Non soltanto 
una liberta di, ma anche una liberta da: liberta dalle grettezze provinciali, dai 
pregiudizi politici e razziali, dalle discriminazioni aprioristiche e ideologiche di 
ogni colore e di ogni posizione (a sinistra cosi come a destra). 

Tuttavia questa indicazione fondamentale di liberta (la poesia come qualche 
cosa di assoluto, di extraterritoriale) pud essere fraintesa, se ci incoraggia a 
restare semplicemente nell’astratto. Si tratta non solo di comprendere una 
situazione statica di aterritorialita come caratteristica generale della poesia, ma 
anche di capire un processo dinamico di deterritorializzazione. (Penso a quella 
bella e triste parola spagnola destierro, che drammatizza l’italiano “esilio”.) 
Osservare questo processo ci porta a comprendere meglio certe caratteristiche, 
non della poesia in generale ma della poesia oggi, in una specifica parte del 
mondo e della sua storia. Né vi & contraddizione, rispetto al concetto di liberta di 
cul si diceva. Io sto qui parlando della liberta da; e la liberta da significa liberta 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 299 


relativa; indica una serie di tentativi (costanti anche se non necessariamente 
sistematici) di liberazione da condizionamenti troppo vincolanti — liberazione 
che non pud che essere dialettica e parziale. 

Ecco appaiono i primi lineamenti di una definizione non pil per via 
negativa, ma positiva: |’attivita poetica contemporanea si caratterizza sempre piu 
come attivita in movimento fra (piuttosto che in residenza dentro) le comunita 
nazionali. I poeti di cui sto per occuparmi non si definiscono dunque soltanto per 
quello che non sono, ma anche per cid che sono: poeti fra due mondi. Essendo 
responsabile di questa formula o prospettiva,! ritengo doveroso precisarla 
ulteriormente. Le tre comunita di scrittura sommariamente delineate in quel 
saggio sono in realta quattro. 

Ma prima, una precisazione. Il termine che ho appena usato si rifa alla 
nozione di "comunita testuale”.? Quest’ultimo concetto, tuttavia, é di natura 
socioculturale; rispetto a esso l’idea di “comunita di scrittura” introduce una certa 
differenziazione, poiché essa sottolinea il momento della elaborazione estetica 
come qualche cosa di distinto da (anche se legato a) il momento della 
interpretazione e dell’integrazione sociale. 

A proposito di integrazione: |’elaborazione estetica é il punto terminale (a 
una delle due estremita) di una gradazione continua nel lavoro o lavorio 
dell’immaginazione; la quale, all’altra estremita della gamma, é radicata nelle 
operazioni fondamentali del corpo, indispensabili alla nostra sopravvivenza in 
quanto esseri umani.? 

Ma, torniamo concretamente alle nostre quattro comunita di scrittura. Prima, 
tuttavia, di cominciare questa breve rassegna, vale la pena di ricordare che la 
polarita di “orale” e “‘scritto” — anche se esposta in forma sfumata e articolata — 
non é quella centrale, qui. Il territorio che sto esplorando é un territorio di 
scrittura, tanto che anche le forme di oralité qui rilevanti hanno luogo all’ interno 
di questo territorio scritturale. Basti pensare a quella istituzione (essenziale per lo 
studio dello sviluppo contemporaneo della poesia, in ogni dove) che é la 
pubblica lettura di poesie. 

Le distinzioni pertinenti al nostro territorio hanno a che fare con diversi 
gradi di elaborazione di forme di scrittura; pit precisamente, hanno a che fare sia 
con forme intimamente legate all’oralita sia con forme da esse pit distanti; piu 
precisamente ancora, riguardano forme di scrittura che sono al tempo stesso 
forme di lettura e anche forme di scrittura che mantengono una tensione 
problematica rispetto alla lettura. Distinguo dunque, in questo territorio, quattro 


1 Vedi Valesio,Writer between Two Worlds. 
Vedi Stock, in particolare le pagine 7, 150, 158, 165. 

Si veda Johnson 170-74 et passim. Un elemento essenziale di cui si avverte l’assenza 
nell’importante libro di Johnson é la nozione di retorica. La tematizzazione esplicita della retorica 
avvicinerebbe di molto a quella “full explication of the notion of linguistic meaning in relation to a 
general concept of meaningfulness” (177) di cui l’autore sente la mancanza. 


300 Paolo Valesio 


gruppi: (1) poeti americani (2) poeti italiani (3) poeti italiani americani (4) poeti 
tra i due mondi.4 

I poeti nordamericani godono del vantaggio, cosi schiacciante da risultare 
quasi brutale (una volta si sarebbe detto “imperialistico”) di scrivere in una delle 
due lingue padrone (l’altra é lo spagnolo) del mondo — o almeno, del mondo 
dell’editoria. Perd io continuo ad avere |’impressione che, per cid che riguarda il 
mondo della poesia, la vastita del continente americano sia pit illusoria che 
reale; voglio dire che la maggior parte della produzione poetica negli Stati Uniti 
sembra tendere a suddividersi, oltre la varieta geografica, secondo un numero 
limitato di faglie culturali tutto sommato ancora molto “europee”. Ma in questa 
sede, tutto cid che @ possibile € un estremo sforzo di sintesi, con tutti i suoi 
rischi di semplificazione; che nota la presenza di due grandi “famiglie” (non 
penso a clan o peggio, ma all’idea wittgensteiniana di somiglianze di famiglia tra 
gruppi di fenomeni diversi), ovvero correnti di tradizione. 

Una, é una tradizione che coltiva un equilibrio tra lirica e discorsivita, che 
non rifiuta la trasparenza della descrizione, che tende ad essere freddamente 
elegiaca (l’ossimoro é necessario: proprio da questa coniunctio oppositorum 
scattano 1 momenti poetici pit efficaci, in questa tradizione); uno dei suoi 
emblemi cruciali resta ancora, nonostante tutto (le transizioni, i rovesciamenti, 
le parodizzazioni, i mutamenti, le ribellioni, ecc.), il tenacemente autoctono 
Wallace Stevens. 

L’altra é una tradizione antilirica che si pud definire, piuttosto che sulla base di 
un Ossimoro, su quella di un pleonasma almeno apparente: “poesia linguistica” 
(language poetry); termine che io qui allargo al di 1a della sua attuale, ristretta 
connotazione di corrente o scuola. Si tratta di una tradizione sperimentale, per la 
quale una delle esperienze cruciali é stata quella di Ezra Pound — poeta tra i due 
mondi. 

Questo poeta nordamericano tra i due mondi evoca a sua volta una 
genealogia che va al di 1a del suo caso particolare, e che é forse il simbolo pit 
pertinente di quelle radici europee della poesia americana di cui prima si diceva: 
Robert Browning. (La cui influenza si pud misurare forse sopra tutto — come 
solitamente accade — nei poeti minori, sempre essenziali per definire 
compiutamente la realta di un clima e di una storia letteraria: per esempio, Edgar 


7 66 


4 Altermno, nel corso di questo saggio, gli aggettivi “americano”, “nordamericano” e “statunitense", 
anche se soltanto l’ultimo dei tre definisce con precisione il referente del mio discorso. E faccio 
questo, in primo luogo perché “statunitense” mi suona un po’ troppo pesante, e in secondo luogo 
perché “americano”, con tutta la sua imprecisione continentale, é in sintonia con una certa 
vaghezza dell’espressione “italiano americano” (la quale dovrebbe essere precisata, distinguendo 
scrittori italiani/nordamericani da scrittori italiani/sudamericani). Quanto a “nordamericano”, sono 
ben consapevole del fatto che esso sussume due situazioni diverse come quella statunitense e 
quella canadese; resti inteso, dunque, che le osservazioni che seguono non pregiudicano la 
differenza canadese, che andra investigata in altra sede. Si vedano, per esempio, i due numeri 


speciali della rivista “Il veltro” dedicati a “Le relazioni tra 1’Italia e il Canada”. 








Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 301 


Lee Masters sembra aver trasferito in una sorta di media idiomatica statunitense 
la scintillante dialogicita e mimesi narrativa di Browning.) Robert Browning, 
poeta tra i due mondi; all’epoca infatti in cui egli vive e scrive la distanza tra 
Inghilterra e Italia é ancora paragonabile a quella tra Italia e Stati Uniti. 

Alcune, dunque, delle genealogie cruciali della moderna poesia anglosassone 
nascono come esperienze tra i due mondi, processi di auto-esilio: solo che in 
questi casi (Browning, Pound) I’Italia é la meta, non il punto di distacco. Ma 
forse la differenza della meta (Italia, o Stati Uniti, come nuova patria) conta 
meno che il rapporto tra i due mondi. Si puo dire che buona parte della moderna 
poesia anglosassone nasca da un fenomeno di “bilinguismo” angloitaliano. Non 
si tratta del bilinguismo che i linguisti analizzano tecnicamente (per questo ho 
posto il termine fra virgolette), ma piuttosto di un bilinguismo mentale o 
spirituale. E, insomma, la situazione di chi scrive poesia in una data lingua 
mentre é immerso nel flusso e realta quotidiana di una lingua diversa. 

Fare poesia significa sempre entrare, fino a un certo punto, in un sogno. 
(Chi scrive poesia sa che questa non é un’immagine vaporosamente eterea e 
vaga, ma la definizione precisa di un arduo compito.) Allora, creare poesia nella 
propria lingua ma in ambito linguistico straniero € una sovradeterminazione della 
situazione onirica — é un doppio sogno. Ma, come sempre accade, le differenze 
non vanno sottovalutate. In questa genealogia della poesia nordamericana emerge 
il potere (1’intellettuale anglofono che scrive la sua lingua in territorio italiano 
potrebbe ripetere l’antica specificazione orgogliosa del civis romanus sum: egli 
scrive in una lingua “forte”, immediatamente esportabile e pubblicabile). 
Nell’altra genealogia invece osserviamo una situazione di debolezza: chi scrive 
italiano in ambito nordamericano rischia di divenire invisibile. Ma debbo tornare 
a ricordare la somiglianza: in entrambi i casi, si scrive in una situazione di 
duplice sogno. Cid significa, tra l’altro, che la categoria della debolezza non é qui 
usata in senso univocamente negativo: la debolezza o indebolimento puo tradursi 
in approfondimento e intensificazione, nella vita dello spirito. 

Tornando alle due correnti poetiche nordamericane, quella elegiacamente 
narrativa e quella sperimentale: non esiste fra di esse, naturalmente, alcun muro 
divisorio; le realizzazioni poetiche pili persuasive realizzano, come di solito 
accade, una contaminatio di questi diversi elementi.° 

Ma parlare di una tradizione poetica come di un qualche cosa che si possa 
attingere direttamente é gesto che contiene in sé un elemento di potenziale 
ingenuita, del quale occorre essere criticamente consapevoli. Infatti, comunita 
letterarie storicamente mature come le prime due nella mia tassonomia — 
l’americana e |’italiana — contengono una dimensione riflessiva e di particolare 
autocoscienza. (Lasciamo stare, qui, la differenza di spessore cronologico tra le 
due storie: se dimenticare l’antichita profonda della tradizione italiana sarebbe 


5 Mi limito a un esempio elegantemente rappresentativo, il bilancio di un oeuvre poetico che 
astutamente contempera le due correnti sopra descritte: Selected Poems di Robert Creeley. 


302 Paolo Valesio 


ingenuo, insistervi finirebbe con I’essere patetico.) 

Cid che piu conta dunque non é, semplicemente e direttamente, la tradizione: 
bensi la traditionis traditio; il modo, insomma, con cui una data tradizione 
riflette su se stessa, e trasmette se stessa. La tradizione della tradizione, nella 
poesia americana, rivela tra molte altre cose il persistente timore che discutere del 
proprio fare sia un di piu, un eccesso che il pubblico non perdona. Questa 
consapevolezza difensiva rende le discussioni americane militanti sulla poesia pit 
leggibili, in media, di quelle italiane; ma anche, pit fragili e friabilli. 

Esempio: alcuni poeti americani si sono ultimamente preoccupati — anche 
su articoli di riviste a vasta circolazione — che la poesia negli Stati Uniti sia 
divenuta una “sottocultura”. Ma il poeta italiano, acutamente consapevole 
com’egli é dello statuto sottoculturale della poesia lungo tutto |’arco della storia 
moderna, non puo che stupirsi di tale stupore. 

Siamo arrivati cosi alla seconda comunit&: quella dei poeti italiani. E 
accaduto, negli ultimi anni, qualche cosa di nuovo nei rapporti culturali tra Italia 
e Stati Uniti: poeti italiani hanno cominciato a visitare gli Stati Uniti, a leggere 
loro testi; e di questi testi cominciano ad apparire traduzioni. E l’inizio di un 
aggiustamento di equilibrio, tra l’attenzione che 1’Italia ha sempre portato alla 
poesia americana, e un’attenzione reciproca che fino a tempi recenti non si 
poteva dire molto intensa. Ma lasciamo la diplomazia delle belle lettere, e 
veniamo alle strategie mentali di fondo. 

I contrasti fra queste due comunita di scrittura/lettura sono netti; e per certi 
rispetti assomigliano a un chiasmo. La comunita poetica americana é in larga 
parte legata a doppio filo alle istituzioni universitarie, ma la sua tradizione é 
(come notato) quella di un ostentato anti-intellettualismo. D’altro canto, la 
comunita poetica italiana non ha un vero rapporto organico con I’universita, ed é 
invece strettamente legata all’economia delle case editrici; eppure, la sua 
traditionis traditio é extra-intellettualistica, con un’ostentazione accademica di 
teorizzazione continua a proposito di tutto — dall’Arte alla Politica, dalla 
Societa alla Natura. 

Per almeno abbozzare un quadro chiaro della situazione, é bene anche non 
disdegnare i rilievi tematici apparentemente piii semplici. (E appunto a livello 
tematico che emergono, almeno inizialmente, le differenze.) Per esempio. Le 
linee di divisione e aggregazione nella poesia italiana sono ancora in (troppo) 
gran parte politiche, o meglio, cioé peggio, partitico-ideologiche (inutile 
sottolineare la differenza rispetto alla situazione della poesia americana). Ed é 
forse a causa dell’insistenza sulla citta come luogo deputato alla retorica 
dell’umanesimo di sinistra che il paesaggio naturale ha cessato, sembra, da circa 
mezzo secolo (a parte alcune significative eccezioni, com’era da attendersi) di 
costituire un serio oggetto di esplorazione per la poesia italiana, mentre esso 
continua ad essere una fonte di nutrimento inesausto per la poesia americana. 

Ma, lasciando la tematica (non si tratta qui, in ogni caso, di stendere un 
protocollo), tentiamo di stringere pit’ da presso la traditionis traditio. 





Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 303 


Sintetizzando al massimo, ed evitando di ripetere cose gia scritte altrove,® cid che 
colpisce nella storia contemporanea della poesia italiana — al di 1a delle 
ingannevoli apparenze create da un verbalismo della discontinuita (“rottura”, 
“contraddizione”, “‘contestazione”, “divaricazione”, e via martellando) — é la sua 
sostanziale continuita. L’alternativa di fondo continua a essere molto simile a 
quella che si era delineata ai primi del Novecento: tra futurismo, dico, e 
simbolismo. (S’intenda che continuita non significa continuismo 0 ripetizione; 
al contrario, constatare le genealogie fondamentali é il modo migliore di cogliere, 
sullo sfondo cosi delineato, le differenze; s’intenda inoltre che “futurismo” e 
“simbolismo” sono termini qui assunti con consapevolezza storica ma senza 
pedanteria storicistica, dunque vengono usati in senso lato.) 

Non ultimo tra i paradossi della traditionis traditio nella poesia italiana é il 
fatto che l’impeto sperimentalistico del futurismo si € mantenuto, ma passando 
con grande disinvoltura da un’ideologia nazionalistica di destra a un’ideologia pit 
oO meno “‘sinistra”. Donde un contrasto obiettivamente ironico fra la retorica della 
liberta totale e addirittura dello svincolamento dalla normale razionalita che la 
poesia delle varie neo-avanguardie ostenta, e la realta di un contesto sociale dove 
le aggregazioni effettive sono condizionate dalle prevedibilita di una politica 
partitica. 

Ma il passaggio, tutto sommato abbastanza agevole, dalla retorica 
dell’avanguardismo alla retorica d’avanguardia, ovvero da ideologhemi “di destra” 
a ideologhemi “di sinistra”, pud veramente stupire soltanto chi ancora pensi al 
linguaggio come a un riflesso, a qualche cosa che sopraggiunge dopo la 
definizione delle idee. Guardando pit in profondita, si osserva come il linguaggio 
plasmi le strutture intellettuali. (11 bel motto latino del rem tene, verba sequentur 
ha ahimé ben poco a che fare con il modo in cui il linguaggio-pensiero funziona 
effettivamente, sopra tutto nel caso della poesia.) 

Non vi é da sorprendersi, allora, della transizione che ho appena descritto: la 
virulenza, il culto dell’intolleranza, da cui nasce la retorica dell’avanguardia la 
predispone a certi connubi ideologici al di 1a dei loro contenuti particolari. 

Rispetto a queste persistenti seduzioni della virulenza, la corrente post- 
simbolista in Italia si é definita sopra tutto per via negativa: per la sua 
discrezione, insomma, e ritegno ad agitare gagliardetti ideologici. Ma all’ interno 
di questo atteggiamento generale le singole soluzioni sono state e sono, non solo 
diverse, ma spesso divergenti. 

Quel che premeva qui, comunque, era semplicemente delineare alcune 
differenze salienti tra due comunita di scrittura/lettura (la statunitense e |’italiana) 
che sono sovrane nei loro rispettivi territori, e hanno elaborato (come detto) 
ciascuna la sua versione tradizionale della propria rispettiva tradizione. Ben 
diverso il caso delle due ultime comunita nella mia lista. Per esse, parlare di 


6 A cui pero non posso non fare riferimento: Fantasma di poesia futura e Pasolini e la vena della 
trasparenza. 


304 Paolo Valesio 


traditionis traditio sarebbe prematuro: in entrambi i casi, cid cui assistiamo é la 
(tutt’altro che facile) costruzione di una tradizione. 

Delle due comunita, quella che gia da tempo é istituzionalizzata @ quella dei 
poeti che una volta si chiamavano italoamericani 0 italo-americani, che poi si 
sono definiti italiani-americani 0 italiani/americani, e che adesso preferiscono 
essere appellati (con una definitiva semplificazione morfologica e grafica) italiani 
americani. (Tali oscillazioni sono pit’ che semplici aneddoti: come accade 
solitamente in questi casi, le variazioni formali sono sintomi di soggiacenti 
problemi culturali e ideologici.)’ La ragione di questa istituzionalizzazione é in 
fondo semplice: questi sono poeti prevalentemente anglofoni; poeti, dunque, che 
scrivono i loro versi in inglese, e i cui legami con la dizione poetica italiana 
sono soprattutto quelli derivanti (per molti di loro) da una attivita di traduzione di 
poesia. 

La strategia che definisce il poeta italiano americano é, inevitabilmente, una 
Sstrategia integrativa rispetto alla cultura e letteratura nordamericana. Dove pero, e 
la differenza non é di poco conto, l’integrazione pud essere sdrammatizzante e 
allusiva (essenzialmente, un’accettazione della propria anagrafe e romanzo 
familiare), oppure attuarsi in modo assertivo e rivendicativo. In quest’ultimo 
caso, le forme pertinenti di poesia italiana americana si aggiungono al coro 
crescente delle letterature cosi dette “etniche”. A guardar bene, la rivendicazione 
“minoritaria” (etnicistica e femministica) costituisce l’unico elemento di 
attenzione propriamente politica nella poesia nordamericana contemporanea.® 

Qui vediamo riapparire la situazione chiastica che gia prima é stata notata, 
comparando queste che un tempo si sarebbero chiamate due civilta letterarie. In 
quella italiana, il generale tono intellettualistico del dibattito poetico é tuttavia 
equilibrato da una tendenza a collegarsi (spesso anche troppo direttamente, ripeto) 
ai grandi temi della vita sociale italiana. Al contrario e simmetricamente (0 
meglio, appunto, chiasticamente): il tono in linea di massima anti- 
intellettualistico della discussione poetica negli Stati Uniti @ perd 
controbilanciato dalla tendenza a spostare le rivendicazioni e i risentimenti 
politici dentro l’area accademica anzi che nell’arena generale della societa (una 
tendenza, dunque, che si realizza come intellettualistica). Ed ecco la 
politicizzazione (all’insegna del descritto rivendicazionismo etnico) di quello che 
a prima vista potrebbe parere un tema esotericamente universitario: i conflitti tra 
canoni letterari alternativi.? 


7 Si veda il piccolo libro di Tamburri, To Hyphenate or Not to Hyphenate. 

Cid che & “propriamente” politico é in realta il senso tradizionale — e in via di obsolescenza — 
della nozione di politica; al disotto del quale permane salda la sua dimensione fondamentale 
ovvero (in senso aristotelico) biologica: gli inevitabili rapporti che si intrecciano dentro la polis. Il 
“propriamente” politico, allora, é una versione degradata e ideologizzata della vita nella polis: si 
tratti del dibattimento partitico che ancora domina la vita sociale in Italia, o del dibattito fra etnie 
che ha assunto un ruolo preponderante nella vita politica statunitense. 

La storia di questi conflitti  ormai lunga; tanto da presentare gia segni di logoramento. Se 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 305 


La poesia italiana americana é, naturalmente, solo uno dei component della 
cultura italiana americana; ma la poesia, essendo sempre |’indicatore pil vibrante 
e sensibile degli sviluppi culturali, costituisce un punto di osservazione cruciale. 
Si avverte in essa, dunque, con particolare intensita quel dilemma di fondo che il 
linguaggio pid diplomatico della saggistica e sociologia tende a palliare. Se la 
cultura italiana americana continua a tenersi legata a un certo folklore contadino e 
paleocattolico rischia di restare troppo confinata; ma, se ne prende troppo 
nettamente le distanze, corre il pericolo di divenire indistinguibile dentro il gran 
mare del Nordamerica. E questo, mutatis mutandis, & vero di ogni letteratura e 
cultura “etnica” negli Stati Uniti oggi. 

I portavoce delle polemiche etniche svolgono generalmente un discorso che 
contiene due filoni contrastanti o addirittura contradditori: una rivendicazione 
della diversité (antropologica, sessuale, ecc.) si unisce in bizzarro sposalizio 
(l’inglese parla pittorescamente di “strani compagni di letto”) con una retorica 
della standardizzazione egalitaria. Che questo discorso contraddittorio (per cui 
viene alla mente un’altra espressione idiomatica inglese: “parlare 
contemporaneamente da tutti e due gli angoli della bocca”) venga disinvoltamente 
snocciolato dagli specialisti in discorsi acritici (i funzionari dei mezzi di 
comunicazione di massa, e i propagandisti governativi) non stupisce; ma é un 
indizio grave che tale discorsivita prefabbricata trovi sempre pill vasto spazio 
nella cultura universitaria, teoricamente dedicata alla critica. 

Ma torniamo al problema specifico della costruzione di una traditionis traditio 
italiana americana. Qui la questione forse centrale é quella di dar vera voce 
(dunque, con revisione critica) alle due vene in larga misura sotterranee sulle 
quali si é costruita la cultura delle comunita italiane americane: il filone di una 
particolare sensibilita sociale e sindacale, e quello della religiosita. Due 
dimensioni che, al di 14 delle vecchie contrapposizioni ideologiche, sono molto 
pit vicine di quel che possa sembrare a prima vista. Quanto alla prima, essa va 
in prima istanza assunta in modo descrittivo e a-ideologico. Cioé, quello che 
prima di tutto e sopra tutto importa non é se questa sensibilita si manifesti in 
modi di “destra” o di “‘sinistra”; cid che conta é che essa esista. Il problema é che, 
da un lato, un certo rivendicazionismo sociale é divenuto un fenomeno in larga 
misura archeologico,!° mentre d’altra parte la tenace e vivace tradizione cattolica 


prendiamo per esempio quale punto di riferimento una raccolta di saggi come quella pubblicata da 
Robert von Hallberg, Canons, vediamo che lo sviluppo del dibattito da allora ad oggi conferma 
(anzi, aggrava) i cauti ammonimenti espressi nell’Introduzione a quel volume (1-4). Segno 
eloquente di questo sviluppo (o meglio, involuzione) é il cambiamento di tono negli organi culturali 
a vasta circolazione (tipo New York Times Book Review, per intenderci). I quali una volta 
trattavano il ressentiment pil o meno minoritario con seriosita e quasi soggezione, timorosi di esser 
colti in flagrante delitto di leso progressismo; e adesso invece cominciano, anche se ancora 
timidamente, a dare un po’ di spazio a voci che prendono qualche distanza critica. 

Cid non significa, naturalmente, che tale rivendicazionismo non sia degno di studio; anche 
perché esso potrebbe, a un’attenta indagine, risultare molto pit vivo di quel che sembni. Faccio un 


306 Paolo Valesio 


negli Stati Uniti non sembra aver mai parlato, a livello teologico, con un 
“accento” italiano. 

Peccato, perché la extraterritorialita americana é adatta a riesaminare secondo 
prospettive nuove la situazione cattolica italiana; prendendo di petto, per 
esempio, quello che é forse il suo paradosso centrale: un cattolicesimo che é solo 
in parte cristiano. Guardiamo, infatti, alle vaste metonimie sulle quali € ancora 
in gran parte costruita la cultura “occidentale”. Che il cristianesimo esista con 
una larga misura di indipendenza dal cattolicesimo, @ nozione gia pacifica almeno 
dagli inizi del Cinquecento; ma, un tipo di cattolicesimo relativamente autonomo 
rispetto alla testimonianza cristiana? Quest’ ultimo é stato lo strano “‘miracolo 
italiano”. Miracolo forse poco santo, ma che merita in ogni caso di essere 
studiato seriamente, al di 1a dell’aneddotica e del cinismo.!! Ma, tornando al caso 
specifico dei poeti: l’autoqualificazione di un poeta o di una poeta come italiano 
americano é fondamentalmente un fenomeno di intenzionalita (ecco un caso in 
cui l’intenzionalita non é una fallacia).!* Voglio dire: se un poeta si dichiara — 
si vuole — italiano americano, nessuno puo farglisi incontro con un’obiezione 
senza apparire discriminatorio; se, d’altra parte, egli rifiuta di immaginare se 
stesso come tale, nessuno puod costringervelo. Questa é la forza e insieme la 
debolezza dei poeti italiani americani rispetto al gruppo assai piu piccolo anzi 
esiguo (cui sto per giungere nella mia analisi) dei poeti fra i due mondi. Questi 
ultimi infatti non possono scegliersi in un modo o nell’altro: se scrivono poesia, 
prevalentemente in italiano, dimorando negli Stati Uniti, essi sono sospesi (gli 
piaccia 0 no) tra i due mondi. 

Un simbolo o meglio sintomo solo apparentemente frivolo di questa 
forza/debolezza degli scrittori italiani americani é quello shibbolet che é (avevo 
accennato sopra all’anagrafe) il nome proprio. Come si pronunzia il nome di uno 
scrittore 0 scrittrice — o in generale persona, scrivente 0 no — italiano 
americano? L’unico modo “naturale” di pronunzia, all’interno di questa comunita, 
€ con un accento americano; ed é infatti cosi che la persona italiana americana si 
pronunzia, nel senso di pronunziare se stessa. Ma questa pronunzia suona 
“innaturale” al parlante italiano, per il quale l’unica enunciazione veramente 
“naturale” @ quella italiana. Essa tuttavia crea immediatamente intorno al 
pronunziante un’atmosfera di freddezza e un sospetto di snobismo. Il problema 


solo, piccolo, esempio. Ricordo una rivistina di anarchici italiani, Controcorrente, ancora 
circolante (almeno nell’area di Boston) negli anni Settanta. Esiste ancora? Ne @ stato mai condotto 
uno studio? 

A proposito di vita religiosa: richiede attenzione (e non solo come problema tecnico, di 
sociologia della religione) la minoranza di italiani americani e italiani tra i due mondi che ha 
abbandonato il cattolicesimo per abbracciare l’una o I’altra delle confessioni protestanti. Si tratta 
di un fenomeno di vita spirituale che (come sempre accade in tali casi) ha anche significative 
implicazioni estetiche, e specificamente letterarie. 

Vedi la disanima di divergenti teorie dell’intenzionalita nel gia citato (alla nota 3) libro di 
Johnson, pp. 177-193. 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 307 


non é grande, ma é insolubile. E (ripeto) non sembri frivolo problematizzare un 
dettaglio come questo. II discorso critico sulla poesia deve anche occuparsi — se 
vuole entrare in intimo contatto con il suo oggetto — delle relazioni pil o meno 
conflittuali tra vari shibbolet (vedi Giudici 12:5-6). Il soggetto é delicato — ma 
quale aspetto non é delicato, in questa problematica fra i due mondi? Sono tutti 
rischi che il critico deve affrontare — se vuole essere veramente tale. Sono cosi 
giunto finalmente alla comunita di scrittura/lettura la cui identificazione 
costituisce l’oggetto specifico (e la novita) di questa analisi: la pit piccola, la 
pit’ giovane, la meno formalizzata. Il termine stesso di “comunita” suona 
eccessivo — e sarebbe pit esatto parlare di una “tribu” che ancora sta cercandosi, 
con la consapevolezza della necessita di un’aggregazione e insieme dei pericoli 
del tribalismo.!* 

Beninteso, i confini tra i due gruppi (comunita dei poeti italiani americani, 
tribt. dei poeti italiani nel Nuovo Mondo) sono porosi: gli assestamenti gli 
scambi i movimenti sono continui. Se dunque io marco qui il persistere di una 
differenza che mi sembra significativa, cid non avviene certamente all’insegna di 
un qualche divisionismo pit o meno polemico: al contrario, si tratta di facilitare 
— chiarendone i termini — un rapporto di sodalizio piu ancora che di dialettica. 

La differenza é, in prima istanza, semplice: i poeti italiani tra i due mondi 
scrivono prevalentemente in italiano. Ma questo fenomeno é semplice solo in 
apparenza: |’alternativa tra scrittura italiana e scrittura angloamericana non evoca 
soltanto il problema della traduzione come tecnologia linguistica ma (piu 
fondamentalmente) quello della traduzione come duplicita antropologica (e vedi, 
sopra, le osservazioni sul bilinguismo mentale dei poeti anglosassoni fra 1 due 
mondi). Quella che emerge é una condizione di dicotomia, anzi che integrazione. 

Il tipico poeta italiano americano (le eccezioni, s’intende, ci sono sempre) 
lavora all’interno di una sfera di lingua-e-linguaggio che é sostanzialmente 
unitaria e coerente: la lingua inglese cosi come essa si realizza nell’uso 
americano corrente.!4 Certo, questa lingua @ fortemente caratterizzata 
dall’idiomaticita italiano/americana ai vari livelli; certo, questa lingua é 
cosmopoliticamente aperta alle altre, in primis all’italiano. Ma cio non incrina la 
compattezza della sfera che ho descritto: in cui vi é una continuita di lingua 
inglese nella sua variante statunitense, dalla colloquialita pit informale e 
idiomatica fino alla pit allusivamente raffinata elaborazione letteraria. 

Il caso della nostra trib é ben diverso. Scherzosamente, potremmo dire che 
qui il problema é quello di scrivere “in Italia(no)”; ma non credo di esagerare se 
dico che si tratta in fondo di una situazione drammatica. Anche se scriviamo in 


13 Vedi il mio articolo I] nuovo tribalismo. 

A scanso di quegli equivoci che, nelle discussioni italiane di lingua e linguaggio e letteratura, 
ricorrono fin dai tempi del De vulgari eloquentia, specifico che: cid di cui sto parlando qui non é il 
problema, molto interessante, della mescolanza tra italiano e americano al livello della lingua 
dell’uso comune. L’ oggetto del mio discorso é invece il linguaggio letterario. 


308 Paolo Valesio 


italiano, l’idiomaticita che ci circonda, ci compenetra, propriamente ci intride, a 
cui attivamente partecipiamo ogni giorno, é quella dell’inglese. Evitiamo 
puntigliosamente gli anglismi? Li accogliamo misuratamente ma ospitalmente 
(nello spirito, diciamo, di Baldassare Castiglione)? La differenza é stilisticamente 
significativa, ma il problema antropologico rimane. 

Senza sopravvalutare la forza conoscitiva delle analogie, un minimo di 
riferimento comparativo é tuttavia utile, se non altro per uscire dall’illusione 
dell’unicita. (II senso dell’unicité resta categoria pertinente — in effetti, 
indispensabile — per il poeta singolo, a parte subiecti; ma non aiuta molto 
nell’elaborare una tipologia di gruppi e correnti.) La nostra posizione 
contemporanea di poeti tra i due mondi!> ha alcuni (insisto sulla prudente 
limitazione) punti di contatto con, per esempio, la situazione (all’incirca mezzo 
secolo fa) degli intellettuali ebrei nel contesto culturale e linguistico tedesco; né 
vi  bisogno di sottolineare che, se questa nostra situazione presenta elementi di 
drammaticita, quella conteneva i germi della tragedia.!® 

Altra analogia interessante @ quella con la dicotomia tra poeti tedeschi restati 
in Germania durante gli anni della dittatura nazista, e poeti esuli.!” L’analogia, 
naturalmente, andra sviluppata con tutte le cautele e le limitazioni gia accennate: 
& evidente infatti che non sto qui delineando una comparazione politica tra la 
tragedia di quegli anni e la nostra situazione presente. Mi sto invece interrogando 
sulla misura in cui sia possibile recuperare, al di 14 della ben diversa sofferenza 
delle due posizioni, una curvatura metodologica comune alle due situazioni 
dicotomiche. 

Tornando, comunque, ancora per un momento a quegli anni durissimi: vi € 
una differenza (e questo é un problema che andra studiato) tra la situazione tedesca 
e quella italiana. Non sembra infatti che sia avvenuta una vera e propria diaspora 
di scrittori italiani, o almeno non di poeti, fuori dai confini dell’ Italia fascista. 
(Un caso come quello di Ignazio Silone — comunque prosatore, non poeta — 
puo essere considerato come |’eccezione che conferma la regola.) 

Insomma, la situazione degli scrittori italiani negli Stati Uniti @ quella di 
una letteratura ‘“‘minore” — beninteso, nel senso non condiscendente di questo 
termine.!®8 La condizione in cui si trovano gli scrittori italiani negli Stati Uniti, 


15 Per I’inizio di una fenomenologia di scrittori e intellettuali italiani cosi sorpresi e sospesi, si veda 
per esempio |’antologia di interviste curata da Rubeo, Mal a’ America. 

Vedi la Introduzione della Arendt a Benjamin, //lwninations (1-51). 

Si veda per esempio la raccolta di una trentina di poeti, Poesia dell’ esilio, a c. di Mariani. 

8 Vedi Deleuze e Guattari, Kafka. Delle tre caratteristiche della letteratura minore 14 indicate — 
“la déterritorialisation de la langue, le branchement de |’individuel sur l’immédiat politique, 
l’agencement collectif d’énonciation” (33) — solo la prima resta seriamente proponibile oggi. In 
effetti, alcune delle tesi o meglio pre-tese 14 enunziate suonano oggi poco meno che grottesche. Si 
veda, subito dopo la frase appena citata: “Autant dire que ‘mineure’ ne qualifie plus certaines 
littératures, mais les conditions révolutionnaires de toute littérature au sein de celle qu’on appelle 
grande (ou établie)”. Se queste formulazioni possono essere parzialmente spiegabili nel clima 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 309 


in quanto rappresentanti di una letteratura “minore”, é purtroppo quella abituale 
in tali casi; il pericolo di scomparire tra le fessure, o meglio falle, della 
storiografia letteraria cosi come essa é correntemente praticata. Di volta in volta, 
si tende a considerare gli scrittori della nostra trib come troppo “italiani” per 
essere ospitati nelle antologie di scrittura italiana americana,'? e troppo 
“americani” per essere accolti nelle antologie che documentano scrittura 
italiana.2° La lezione che dobbiamo trarre da tutto cid é chiara: il problema delle 
antologie e delle riviste contemporanee di poesia dev’essere affrontato come 
problema transculturale. Come accade per esempio in una recente antologia 
canadese in lingua francese che documenta il lavoro di scrittori italiani del 
Québec: dei diciotto autori antologizzati (con vari scarti di qualita), sedici 
scrivono originalmente in francese, sei in inglese, due in italiano (Quétes: textes 
d’ auteurs italo-québécois). Questo ci ricorda, fra l’altro, che l’equilibrio-in- 
tensione degli scrittori fra i due mondi pud abbracciare (come nel caso appena 
citato) tre anzi che due lingue. 

Parlando sopra dell’idea di antologia contemporanea di poesia come 
produzione transculturale, non intendevo enunziare una novita assoluta: in questo 
come in tutti gli altri casi importanti, il contemporaneo affonda le sue radici nel 
moderno. 

Basti ricordare due casi ben noti, e in effetti divenuti presso che storici: 
l’antologia Americana di Vittorini risalente (nell’edizione sequestrata) al 1941, e 
la Anthologie “nera” di Senghor del 1948. Ho detto che i due casi sono (negli 
ambiti rispettivi) ben noti; ma mi pare che il loro accostamento non sia solito. 
Tale avvicinamento é qui inteso come un’indicazione (necessariamente ellittica) a 
considerare in modo lato il concetto di transculturalita. 

I percorsi genealogici sono tortuosi, avventurosi, fantasiosi (e come 
potrebbe essere altrimenti, trattandosi di opere dell’umana immaginazione?). Per 
esempio, un fenomeno come I|’apparizione dell’antologia di Senghor fa parte di 
tutta un’atmosfera, nella Parigi degli anni Quaranta, che aiuta a spiegare l’auto- 
esilio parigino di uno scrittore nero (non era ancor venuto di moda il termine 





degli anni Settanta, é perd sorprendente che — a pill di una decade di distanza — i curatori 
dell’edizione nordamericana del libro (Kafka: Toward a Minor Literature) non abbiano avvertito il 
bisogno di stabilire un minimo di distanza critica. 

Si veda recentemente From the Margin: Writings in Italian Americana. Ma la rivista che € 
espressione del lavoro di questo gruppo di studiosi e di altri loro colleghi (Voices in Italian 
Americana, ovvero, acrosticamente, V/A) non chiude, fortunatamente, le sue porte al lavoro degli 
scrittori italiani in America. 

9 Vedi il numero doppio della rivista Poetry del 1989; né la situazione é di molto migliorata in casi 
pid recenti. Si preannunzia ora /taly’s Ultramodern, Experimental Lyrics, a c. di Justin Vitiello, la 
quale tuttavia si presenta come un’antologia legata a una linea di tendenza. Aperta, invece, a tutte 
le tendenze (ma senza qualunquismo acritico) é l’antologia corredata da saggi critici, Poesaggio: 
poeti italiani d’ America, ac. di Pete~ Carravetta e Paolo Valesio, in corso di stampa. Ugualmente 
aperto alle voci pit diverse é il numero speciale della rivista Gradiva, anch’esso dedicato ai poeti 
italiani in America e curato da Luigi Fontanella e Paolo Valesio, anch’esso in corso di stampa. 


310 Paolo Valesio 


“afroamericano” o “‘africano americano” . . .) come Richard Wright (il quale 
arriva a Parigi, su invito ufficiale del governo francese, nel 1946 e vi resta fino 
alla morte nel 1960), e pit tardi gli spostamenti di James Baldwin (che abita a 
Parigi dal 1948 al 1957, ma dal 1969 inizia una vita nomadica tra New York, 
Nuova Inghilterra e Sud della Francia, ed é in quest’ultima regione ch’egli 
muore, nel 1987). Non sembra esistano, nell’Italia di quel periodo, casi culturali 
di questo genere.2! Comunque, il caso di Americana andra rivisto in una 
prospettiva propriamente critica.” 

Per tornare al confronto fra le due antologie, |’italiana e la francese: una 
differenza che salta agli occhi € che la prima riguarda la prosa mentre la seconda 
concerne la poesia. Nelle pagine precedenti ho usato il termine “poeta” e quello 
di “scrittore” come se si trattasse di sinonimi 9, tutt’al pid, di parole legate da un 
pacifico rapporto metonimico. In realta la questione é pit: complessa. 

La differenza tra poesia e prosa é tanto radicale quanto indimostrabile per 
mezzo di strumenti “scientifici”. (Chiunque scrive poesia sa quanto profondo sia 
il confine tra i due mondi espressivi; e che vi siano scrittori grandi in entrambi i 
generi non contraddice questa distinzione.) Vi é perd un genere letterario che si 
trova in delicato e significativo equilibrio tra prosa e poesia: il racconto. La 
questione non riguarda solo la teoria estetica, ma ha implicazioni non trascurabili 
per la storiografia letteraria. Mentre una ricerca sulla prosa romanzesca e 
saggistica in lingua italiana negli Stati Uniti dev’essere condotta a parte, e 


21 4 proposito di questa differenza francese: il Gorlier nella sua nota ad Americana ricorda 
opportunamente (p. ix) che la scoperta della letteratura statunitense non rappresenta a quel tempo 
una presa di contatto diretta da parte degli intellettuali italiani, ma @ qualche cosa che in prima 
istanza passa attraverso il filtro francese. Vi é qui un parallelo interessante (ancora da svolgere, 
per una ri-analisi della nostra storia letteraria) fra questa ripresa italiana di letteratura americana 
negli anni Quaranta del nostro secolo (inizialmente per tramite francese, ma poi con 
riappropriazioni e risultati originali) e l’analoga ripresa, quasi esattamente un secolo prima, di uno 
dei padri della letteratura americana — Edgar Allan Poe — da parte della Scapigliatura italiana; 
anche qui attraverso la filiera francese, ma poi con brillanti risultati nuovi (ancora da valutare 
adeguatamente) per la letteratura italiana. 

Che Americana sia creazione di Vittorini — che egli vi abbia conferito l’impronta che resta — 
@ ovviamente fuori discussione; come é chiaro che la sua breve nota prefatoria (v. 1, pp. 2-5) é@ 
intensamente pensata, e che le schede che precedono ogni selezione rappresentano un 
significativo lavorio critico. Ma perché passare sotto silenzio il fatto che il saggio di Cecchi (vol. 2, 
pp. 1037-52), pit lungo e articolato, é oggi altrettanto leggibile, pur nella prospettiva critica 
nettamente (e fecondamente) diversa, che la nota vittoriniana — non é né meno né pit “datato” di 
essa? (Imprudentemente uno dei curatori parla [vol. 1, p. xix] di un “fondo dilettantesco” di 
Cecchi; se proprio si volesse usare questa sgradevole categoria, essa andrebbe applicata piuttosto 
a Vittorini.) Per limitarmi a un punto (non il pit importante, ma significativo per questa ricerca) del 
saggio di Cecchi: “Anche oggi, a Nuova York, in certi tratti pit: catastrofici di Sesta Avenue o 
della Bowery, cid che si vede sembra di vederlo con gli occhi di O. Henry” (1041). Questo é un 
modo garbato di marcare una differenza che non é qualche cosa di aneddotico ma ha una sua 
pertinenza (vedi anche la nota 27) metodologica e culturale: la differenza, dico, fra chi conosce 
l’ America direttamente e chi no. 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 311 


mescolarla a questo discorso sui poeti significherebbe rendere un cattivo servizio 
a entrambe le attivita;2> il caso invece é diverso per cid che riguarda poesia e 
narrativa breve, per via appunto di questo loro intimo rapporto.(Occorrera dunque 
in futuro coordinare la ricerca e antologizzazione poetica con quella sui 
racconti.)** Tornando alla storia letteraria (con la vastita di prospettive necessaria 
perché si possa parlare di storia): non é esagerato (e vedi le considerazioni iniziali 
di questo saggio) guardare ai rapporti transculturali di cui stiamo parlando come a 
una serie di piccole “riscoperte dell’ America”. In questa prospettiva € interessante 
notare che non sembra si sia mai dato, nella letteratura italiana contemporanea, il 
caso di un’antologia della poesia nordamericana che abbia giuocato il ruolo 
strategico esercitato dall’antologia prosastica di Vittorini.> 

Parlando infatti di riscoperte (per quanto piccole) dell’ America, mi riferisco a 
qualche cosa di pili che operazioni tecniche e filologiche: intendo parlare invece 
di quei momenti in cui si getta sul territorio (geografico, spirituale) uno sguardo 
fresco e nuovo, il cui risultato € — prima o poi — una serie di revisioni e 
riaggiustamenti di mira. La riscoperta letteraria dell’ America é avvenuta dunque, 
nella letteratura italiana, sotto l’egida razionalistica propria della prosa 
antropologico-saggistica,”® piuttosto che all’insegna della ricostruzione 


23 Che poi un futuro regesto di romanzieri italiani fra i due mondi possa contenere alcuni nomi che 
ricorrono anche nella lista dei poeti — questa é tutt’altra questione. Cosi come é un’altra questione 
— e un interessante problema ermeneutico — distinguere tra i racconti scritti da poeti e quelli 
scritti da prosatori “puri”, o almeno ( i prosatori “puri” sono pit rari di quel che appaia a prima 
vista) da prosatori in cui la produzione poetica occupa un ruolo interessante ma minore. Si pensi 
per esempio, all’interno di uno stesso ambito letterario che si pud definire generalmente (ma non é 
una definizione generica) come realismo magico, alla differenza fra i racconti di Palazzeschi — 
dove la vena poetica é una componente integrale della prosa — e quelli (pur cosi vicini per 
eleganza letteraria) di Bontempelli o di Landolfi, dove questa integrazione poetica non ha la stessa 
portata strutturale. (Questi ultimi hanno, com’é noto, scritto versi non indifferenti; ma la loro poesia 
non ha, chiaramente, lo stesso peso e presenza che in Palazzeschi.) Tomando al Nuovo Mondo: é 
appena uscito il numero speciale dedicato alla narrativa italiana da The Review of Contemporary 
Fiction. 

Questa cruciale distinzione fra racconto e romanzo (che ha a che fare con tutta un’economia 
estetica) rischia di essere obliterata in quelle antologie che mettono insieme veri e propri racconti 
nati come tali con pezzi di romanzo che |’antologizzatore sforbicia e ritaglia a guisa di racconti. 
Questa tattica non é assente da Americana —e mi limito a un solo esempio, pertinente a questa 
discussione poiché si tratta dell’unico scrittore italiano americano presente nella raccolta. Sotto il 
titolo “Una famiglia neo-americana” (formula peraltro interessante), Vittorini colloca (vol. 2, pp. 
1023-36), e traduce in proprio, non uno dei numerosi racconti scritti dal narratore John Fante 
(1909-1983), ma una scheggia (la parte finale del capitolo 1) di un suo romanzo. (Per il testo 
originale vedi Fante, Wait until Spring, Bandini, pp. 25-45.) 

25 Cid non significa naturalmente che siano mai mancate, nella letteratura italiana dalla fin di 
secolo a oggi, antologie e traduzioni di poesia americana. (Vedi anche il capitolo finale, 
D’Annunzio, America and Poetic Prosings, nel mio Gabriele d’ Annunzio.) 

Vedi casi oramai canonici come Cecchi, America amara, ora in Nuovo continente; e Soldati, 

America primo amore. 


312 Paolo Valesio 


immaginativa propria del romanzo,”’ o sotto il segno transrazionale della poesia. 

In effetti, vi é una considerazione che ci aiuta a spiegare perché la riscoperta 
canonica della letteratura americana in Italia sia una riscoperta di prosa anzi che di 
poesia. La prosa americana degli anni Quaranta si offriva ad avvalorare il mito di 
una novita, 0 verginita, o almeno radicale rottura (che questo mito avesse basi 
assai fragili @ un altro discorso — che comunque era gia opportunamente 
affrontato da Cecchi nell’ Introduzione citata). La poesia nordamericana, d’altro 
canto, non si prestava particolarmente in quegli anni, né si € mai veramente 
prestata, a questa mitologizzazione. Cid conferma |’osservazione all’inizio di 
questo saggio: tutto sommato (e nonostante apparenze ingannevoli, e anche 
alcune ribellioni reali — basti pensare al movimento “beat’), la matrice della 
poesia nordamericana é prevalentemente europea. 

Tornando allo stretto nesso tra poesia e prosa breve; significativamente, esso 
appare gia in quelle che possono essere considerate le genealogie della poesia 
italiana tra i due mondi. Come gia osservato, sembra prematuro parlare di una 
traditionis traditio per la letteratura italiana tra i due mondi; e la ragione 
fondamentale é la scarsezza di genealogie — scarsezza che ci porta 
necessariamente ad elaborare una storiografia del contemporaneo, ovvero del 
presente come storia,”® ovvero del presente-futuro. Ma, scarsezza non significa 
assenza completa. 

In primo luogo, va notato che il concetto di genealogia dev’ essere svincolato 
da una certa solennita. Genealogia non implica soltanto radici profonde e tronchi 
secolari. Essa pud essere anche un fenomeno di passaggi rapidi, ma intensi e 
significativi; ed é chiaro che questo secondo aspetto é il pill pertinente alla 
fenomenologia degli scrittori fra i due mondi. 

Si tratta di momenti dal valore largamente simbolico. Ma si pud, parlando 


27 Preciso che sto parlando degli anni intorno alla Seconda Guerra Mondiale (dunque, della 
genealogia della nostra situazione), non del panorama contemporaneo. Preciso inoltre (e questo é 
metodologicamente importante) che le categorie critiche qui impiegate, come “scrittore fra i due 
mondi” e “riscoperta’”’, se nel loro nucleo essenziale designano incontri ed esperienze dello spirito, 
hanno tuttavia un ancoraggio concreto nell’esistenza individuale e nelle peripezie empiriche e 
materiali (e vedi nota 22). Queste mie categorie si riferiscono dunque specificamente a scrittori 
che hanno visto ed esperito entrambi i mondi. Riscoperte puramente immaginative (come quella 
pavesiana de La luna e i fald del 1950) fanno parte di una situazione diversa. Il problema 
metodologico qui é quello di distinguere (mantenendo peraltro un costante nesso dialettico) tra la 
mitologizzazione che nasce dall’effettivo movimento tra i due mondi (dall’avventura, in prima 
istanza, di un corpo) e la mitologizzazione che fiorisce anche nell’assenza di questo riscontro. Si 
pud pensare a un rapporto metonimico, per cui la prima mitologizzazione costituisce una zona di 
particolare intensita che pulsa entro l’area pit’ vasta e alquanto pit sfuocata della seconda. Per 
quest’ultima si vedano, tra l’altro: Fernandez, [/ mito dell’ America negli intellettuali italiani(1930- 
1950) e la tesi a stampa di Beynet, L’image de |’Amérique dans la culture italienne de I’entre- 
deux-guerres. 

Giova qui richiamare un tipo di analisi che merita ancora attenzione: Sweezy, The Present as 
History. 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 313 


di poesia, distinguere un valore simbolico da un valore “reale”? Ho ricordato 
altrove (vedi saggio citato alla nota 1) il passaggio creativo di Federico Garcia 
Lorca per Nuova York. Debbo qui aggiungere, almeno, il passaggio attraverso 
1’America del Nord e del Centro (Canada, Stati Uniti, Haiti) di André Breton nel 
periodo 1941-1946; esperienza che gli ispira poesie e prose notevoli. 

La letteratura italiana fra i due mondi non puo vantare attraversamenti 
altrettanto prestigiosi. In compenso noi possiamo riferirci a un caso che, se pit 
modesto, é pero pili significativo; perché non si tratta (come nei due casi 
precedenti) di una breve parentesi all’ interno di una canonizzata carriera europea, 
ma della nascita americana di una vocazione poetica in un espatriato italiano. Mi 
riferisco a Emanuel Carnevali (1897-1942), che scrive quasi esclusivamente in 
inglese, e predominantemente nel suo breve ma decisivo periodo americano (a 
New York e a Chicago, tra la primavera del 1914 e l’autunno del 1922).?9 

Carnevali merita di essere considerato il passaggio genealogico cruciale per 
la poesia italiana negli Stati Uniti non tanto per |’intrinseca qualita della sua 
opera, e non tanto per la mitologizzazione della sua vita, e non tanto per il grado 
di attenzione che egli ha suscitato in importanti poeti americani (come William 
Carlos Williams), quanto sopra tutto per la sua condizione fluida, al di fuori di 
ogni situazione stanziale. 

Non che la sua opera sia priva di interesse: essa é, in un suo modo selvatico 
e sghembo, aggiornata a certi ritmi della poesia a lui contemporanea,”° pur nei 
limiti di un certo suo manierismo e natura propedeutica. Carnevali é comunque 
pill incisivo (€ qui si torna al rapporto racconto-poesia) come scrittore di prose 
brevi che come poeta: testi penetranti che ricordano aspetti dello stile di un 
narratore della generazione precedente come Federigo Tozzi (1883-1920), con 
chiari echi nietzscheani e qualche lampeggiamento di Whitman e di Emerson.?! 


29 1a fonte centrale per la scarna opera di Camevali resta l’unico libro pubblicato lui vivente: A 
Hurried Man. Quanto a The Autobiography of Emanuel Carnevali, si tratta in realta di una raccolta 
di “bits and pieces” (come si esprime [p. 18] la curatrice Boyle). L’edizione postuma in italiano (// 
primo dio) non chiarisce i rapporti tra i testi tradotti da A Hurried Man e quelli tradotti da altri fonti, 
e non reca il nome del traduttore o traduttrice. (Che perd é la stessa curatrice; vedi intervista di 
Paola Cristalli con M. P. Camevali ne “II Resto del Carlino” del 9 gennaio 1992.) L’unica edizione 
filologicamente esplicita, a mia conoscenza, é Camevali, Voglio disturbare I’ America, che perd 
contiene testi di interesse in larga parte aneddotico. Manca una edizione completa e chiara degli 
scritti di Carnevali, cosi come manca ancora una valutazione propriamente critica e distanziata. 
Non é coincidenza priva di interesse che la data di pubblicazione di A Hurried Man coincida 
con la pubblicazione di due antologie strategiche per la storia della poesia italiana: Poeti d’oggi 
(1900-1925), 2 ed. a c. di Papini e Pancrazi (la 1 ed., com’é noto, risale al 1920), e, a un livello di 
minore significativita, / nuovi poeti futuristi, a c. di Marinetti. Molta acqua é passata sotto i ponti, 
dall’epoca dell’antologia veramente di avanguardia: / poeti futuristi del 1912. La poesia di 
Carnevali @ in consonanza con i modi della seconda generazione di poesia futurista; il che 
Signinca, tra l’altro, che condivide con essa il ritomo a elementi crepuscolari. 
31 ay say to have a mood is to live. . . . Thus I proclaim: a poem today must be one single, absolute, 
definite will” (A Hurried Man, p. 67), ecc. ecc. 


314 Paolo Valesio 


E non parlo della mitologizzazione della sua vita con il tono di disdegno (non si 
sa se pill puristico o puritanico) che certi filologi a volte hanno |’impertinenza di 
assumere verso i poeti: come se la poesia non nascesse dalla vita per il tramite 
indispensabile della mitologizzazione, come se le sofferenze dei poeti non 
richiedessero rispetto e attenzione da parte dei critici in quanto elementi 
specificamente pertinenti alla definizione della loro opera poetica. (Vita tragica di 
Carnevali: questo ammiratore di Rimbaud, che termina la sua esistenza in un 
modo che ricorda quello del suo contemporaneo Antonin Artaud.) 

Ma insomma, la ragione fondamentale per cui Carnevali merita di essere 
ricordato come genealogia della poesia italiana contemporanea negli Stati Uniti é 
il suo aver vissuto e scritto nell’intervallo o interstizio tra diverse compagini 
sociali; il suo non esser stato né italiano né americano né italiano americano, ma 
veramente (cioé coerentemente, puramente — anche con la irresponsabilita che 
spesso si accompagna alla purezza) poeta tra i due mondi. 

Per confermare la validita di questa genealogia (con tutti, ripeto, i suoi 
limiti — sto svolgendo un’analisi critica, non elaborando un’apologia o piccola 
leggenda) basta guardare alle sue alternative. Che sembrano ridursi poi, nel caso 
della tribi' poetica italiana, a due: una tradizione di populismo dialettale o 
vernacolare, e una tradizione di populismo rivendicativo in quello che potremmo 
definire il solco di Sacco e Vanzetti. (La nozione di “populismo” é qui assunta 
seriamente, senza alcuna condiscendenza.) Entrambe le tradizioni meritano uno 
studio filologicamente attento. Ma nessuna delle due pud essere seriamente 
ripresa come genealogia del contemporaneo, poiché il linguaggio poetico con cui 
esse Si esprimono é nettamente (direi, coerentemente) obsoleto. 

Mi limito qui a ricordare un caso emblematico del secondo di questi filoni: 
Arturo Giovannitti (1884-1959).32 E interessante qui notare due elementi che 
accomunano (oltre la scrittura in inglese) due poeti come Carnevali e 
Giovannitti, che per altri rispetti si pud dire abitino pianeti diversi. Essi sono: il 
tono protestatario di ascendenza nietzscheana (che pero é individualistico in 
Carnevali, socialistico in Giovannitti) e — pill interessantemente — la maggior 
riuscita delle brevi prose poetiche rispetto alle poesie vere e proprie. In 
Giovannitti, le poesie sono difficilmente leggibili oggidi (completamente 
immerse come esse sono in una dizione ottocentesca), mentre certe prose 
poetiche dai ritmi nietzscheano-whitmaniani potrebbero essere antologizzate 
ancor oggi.*? 

Ma tutta questa analisi genealogica andrebbe ampliata in un modo che qui 
non é possibile; e basti l’accenno seguente. Il compito del prossimo futuro é lo 
sviluppo di un quadro comparativo pid vasto; confrontando i, per cosi dire, 
movimenti di “andata” con quelli di “ritorno”. In questa prospettiva, un 


32 Le sue poesie sono ora accessibili nei suoi Collected Poems. 
Si veda per esempio il poemetto in prosa di ambiente carcerario The Walker, in Giovannitti, 
Arrows in the Gale, pp. 21-27. 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 315 


fenomeno interessante che andra studiato é quella che definisco preliminarmente 
come “la mossa di Anteo”. Alcuni dei movimenti decisivi per la poesia e la 
natrativa breve nell’Italia del primo Novecento sono i ritorni in Italia, piuttosto 
che gli auto-esili. Si pensi al ritorno trionfale di d’Annunzio dalla Francia, al 
ritorno in patria dall’Egitto dei due “alessandrini” — F. T. Marinetti e Giuseppe 
Ungaretti — al ritorno da Atene dei fratelli De Chirico. 

Al di 14 di una puntigliosa assegnazione di “voti” (che facilmente scade 
nell’assurdo), bensi all’insegna di un pacato descrittivismo, occorrera coordinare 
questi “ritorni” con le “andate” (Carnevali, e pit tardi Borgese, Silone, ecc.). 
Tuttavia, se é bene evitare un atteggiamento pedante e scolastico, non si pud 
negare che il bilancio preliminare dei movimenti di andata e ritorno sul territorio 
della repubblica letteraria italiana nel primo Novecento registra conseguenze piu 
strategicamente importanti a favore dei ritorni (ecco perché parlavo della mossa di 
Anteo, il gigante che resta invincibile finché tocca direttamente la terra). D’altro 
canto, cid che é metodologicamente essenziale non é la direzione del movimento 
ma (come gia osservato) la sua esistenza, in quanto antitesi 0 tensione dialettica 
fra due poli. 

Avendo tracciato le grandi linee di una genealogia, il problema ora non 
eludibile é quello di una definizione sincronica della situazione; 0, per parlare un 
linguaggio meno astratto, il problema di descrivere la nostra tribu per quello che 
essa & oggi. Occorre innanzi tutto tornare a considerare il problema della 
dicotomia. Dicotomia che non ha a che fare con aneddoti biografici, anche se la 
biografia é pur sempre il radicamento essenziale, 0 atteggiamenti meramente 
emotivi (anche se senza emozioni, non solo non si fa poesia, ma non si fa 
nemmeno buona critica); ma che costituisce un vero e proprio nodo 
epistemologico. 

Questa dicotomia ha vari nomi. (Come gia notato, i problemi di 
denominazione non dovrebbero mai essere sottovalutati: essi rivelano i delicati, e 
rari, momenti in cui l’ideologia si congiunge con lo stile.) Il termine piu 
generale, che fa da sfondo a tutti gli altri (e su cui tornerd) é quello di esilio. Ma 
vanno ricordate alcune alternative. Espatrio, innanzi tutto (con una connotazione 
lievemente burocratica), diaspora (che appropriatamente integra, con la sua eco 
ebraica, quel termine “esilio” le cui risonanze teologiche sono oggi 
prevalentemente cristiane).*4 E altri termini ancora, che puntano verso il 
protagonista della situazione pit tosto che verso la situazione in astratto: 
fuoruscito (termine politico cui Pound ha restituito una valenza poetica), 
trapiantato,>> esota (Giammattei, La morale dell’ esota), nomade,** vagabondo, 
pellegrino, chierico vagante, et similia. Sono termini, come si vede, la cui 


34 Vedi per esempio Della Terza, Da Vienna a Baltimora. 

35 Vedi per esempio Prezzolini, / trapiantati, che contiene fra 1’altro un capitolo su Camevali. 
Vedi per esempio la trattazione contrappuntistica di questo concetto in Deleuze e Guattani, 

Mille plateaux. 


316 Paolo Valesio 


metaforicita oscilla tra il politico, lo psicologico, il legale e il religioso. 
Esistono anche termini pit’ antropologicamente densi.?” Penso sopra tutto alle 
parole e nozioni che si raggruppano intorno a un archetipo la cui importanza 
avevo gia delineato nel saggio citato alla nota 1: quello del limen. Si pud parlare 
allora di uno stato di “liminalita” (liminality) come forma di transizione 0 rite de 
passage demarcato in fasi successive, e distinto rispetto allo stato di “esternalita” 
(outsiderhood), e a quello di “marginalita”; quest’ultimo termine, cosi come esso 
é usato correntemente, sembra essere il pili vicino a designare la situazione della 
nostra tribi.*8 Tutta questa analisi tassonomica dovra nel prossimo futuro essere 
coordinata con un’analisi propriamente estetica. Per esempio, lo statuto liminale 
del poeta italiano fra i due mondi puo aiutare a spiegare un elemento poetologico 
che é stato notato sopra, cioé un certo ritorno alla natura da parte dei poeti 
“trapiantati”, mentre non si Osservano molte tracce di questo ritorno nella poesia 
della madrepatria.*? 

Ma, avendo notata (e non esaurita) la ricchezza di termini e di nozioni che 
fanno costellazione intorno alla dicotomia di cui sto parlando, trovo necessario 
tornare al termine pill semplice (per non dire pit brutale); un termine il cui 
utente potrebbe essere accusato di un eccesso di drammatizzazione. (Ma una 
simile accusa sbaglierebbe il bersaglio; sto qui parlando — é@ bene non 
dimenticarlo — di poeti; e la drammatizzazione non é un ornamento facoltativo 
della poesia, bensi uno dei suoi strumenti conoscitivi essenziali.) Il termine é: 
esilio. 

Il problema caratteristico dei poeti fra i due mondi é pur sempre quello 
antico (addirittura, arcaico) dell’esilio; ed é inutile tentare di eufemizzarlo. La 
difficolta che tale lavoro sull’esilio deve prima di tutto affrontare é quella di una 
gerarchizzazione morale (a volte con sopra-toni moralistici) che colloca su un 
piedestallo l’esilio (inflitto da altri), e su un gradino assai inferiore — o 
addirittura degradato — l’autoesilio. Il primo é incoronato dalla nobilta della 
sciagura, e dal mistero della fatalita; il secondo @ immerso nell’atmosfera 
ambigua di cid che é facoltativo (e il facoltativo spesso é fatto scivolare nel 
gratuito o nell’arbitrario), di cid che pud essere (oh, termine di obbrobrio per le 


37 Quando dico “antropologia” penso a una forma di attenzione empirica e insieme poetica, 
piuttosto che ai fuochi di artificio che oggi scoppiettano da molte parti; per esempio in Tyler, The 
Unspeakable. Pit pertinente alla mia analisi é la nozione di diafora, con la sua connotazione di 
scambio e movimento, per cui vedi Carravetta, Prefaces to the Diaphora. 

8 Vedi Tumer, Dramas, Fields, and Metaphors, specialmente alle pagine: 231-33, 237-38, 242, 
266. A proposito di quest’ultimo libro, va notato che l’inventore (e brillante applicatore) del 
concetto di “azione simbolica” non é un antropologo, ma un critico letterario gia attivo negli anni 
Venti: Kenneth Burke. 

9 Turmer: “An important component of the liminal situation is . . . an enhanced stress on nature at 
the expense of culture. . . . In a sense, when man ceases to be the master and becomes the equal or 
fellow of man, he also ceases to be the master and becomes the equal or fellow of nonhuman 
beings” (252-53 dell’opera citata alla nota precedente). 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 317 


culture moralistiche!) estetico. 

La prima mossa da compiere per impostare un lavoro serio sull’esilio é 
respingere questa gerarchia moralistica. Anche perché la differenza tra i due 
processi é tutt’altro che netta, ed esiste una terra di nessuno — difficile (percid 
interessante) da esplorare — che connette esilio ed autoesilio; terra di nessuno 
che richiede una delicata fenomenologia psicologica, politica, legale, e poetica. 
(Serva da esempio il locus classicus dell’esilio nella storia della letteratura 
italiana: quello di Dante; si pud dire che esso divenga a un certo punto 
autoesilio? E se si, come — secondo quale metodo e quali parametri?) 

Ecco che allora termini come esilio e gli altri elencati sopra si rivelano in 
fondo — al di 1a delle loro apparenze aspramente e drammaticamente profilate — 
come le designazioni di concetti che sono delicatamente sfumati. Per rendersene 
conto, é sufficiente compiere un piccolo esperimento di semantica culturale: 
pensare, cioé, a quali siano i termini opposti o almeno contrari. (Qual é il 
contrario di “esiliato”? “Amnistiato”, “rimpatriato”?) Un caso abbastanza chiaro é 
quello che ha a che fare con la semantica della migrazione. “Immigrante” versus 
“emigrante” costituisce una coppia di contrari (o forse, pill’ esattamente, di 
termini contraddittori): per esempio, la stessa persona che dal punto di vista 
americano é un immigrante, é invece un emigrante dal punto di vista italiano. 
Pud sembrare un mero giuoco linguistico, ma non lo é: piuttosto, é il simbolo 
della dicotomia drammatica che struttura ogni esperienza di migrazione. D’altro 
canto, per la tribi: che sto studiando vale una coppia semantica che non é 
costituita da termini contrari o contraddittori ma, al massimo, da termini 
opposti: ““migrante” (= “emigrante”/“immigrante”) versus “migratore” (termine, 
quest’ ultimo, solitamente usato come aggettivo ma qui impiegato — con un uso 
che non é peraltro sconosciuto alla lingua italiana — come sostantivo). 
Propongo, per gli scopi presenti, una precisazione di questi termini. “Migrante” 
& colui/colei che si sposta da un territorio a un altro in modo definitivo o presso 
che definitivo: nella sua vita, dunque, vi € un solo viaggio che conta, un 
definitivo passaggio di soglia (egli si muove da una stanzialita a un’altra 
stanzialita). “Migratore” invece é colui/colei che si muove abbastanza 
regolarmente tra due paesi.*° Nei termini specifici dei rapporti tra Italia e Stati 
Uniti, stiamo assistendo oggi a un importante mutamento storico, del quale le 
descrizioni sociologiche e letterarie debbono ancora prender atto: il passaggio da 
un periodo “eroico” (approssimativamente, dalla fine dell’Ottocento alla Seconda 
Guerra Mondiale), che é stato il periodo dei migranti, a un periodo moderno (il 


40 Pare che gli uccelli migratori abbiano una vita mediamente pit breve di quelli stanziali; e che 
cid sia dovuto al loro continuo passare e ripassare attraverso diversi fusi orari . . . se questo é vero, 
si tratterebbe di un’ulteriore conferma di cid di cui comunque quelli di noi che vivono questa 
esperienza sono gia consapevoli: che cioé questa condizione apparentemente privilegiata esige in 
realta un alto prezzo .. . Wedi anche le riflessioni di Livomi, Dall’ emigrazione all’ esilio. E vedi 
ora il volume collettivo, La letteratura dell’ emigrazione. 


318 Paolo Valesio 


quale ancora attende i suoi [de]scrittori) che é il periodo dei migratori. Tornando 
specificamente alla terminologia dell’esilio: nella sua costellazione semantica 
non troviamo termini contrari o contraddittori od opposti, ma piuttosto termini 
indirettamente correlativi. Per esempio, si pud dire che l’esilio — la cui 
conseguenza immediata é, in tutti i sensi, uno spaesamento — sollevi il 
problema correlativo dell’ identificazione.*! Questa dialettica evoca a sua volta la 
categoria (oggi molto alla moda) della trasgressione, e le varie nozioni a essa 
connesse: trasposizione, transcodificazione, ricodificazione, spostamento, 
decentramento, ecc.; cosi come i concetti alternativi: mediazione, relazione, 
intersezione, interconnessione, ecc.*2 

Ma il punto centrale é che la condizione della nostra tribi @ quella 
dell’autoesilio. Categoria, come s’é veduto, tutt’altro che rigida; categoria che 
richiede un’esplorazione etica tramata su ritocchi e aggiustamenti delicati 
(dunque, non moralistica). Si pud anche dire che oggi ogni discorso 
sull’autoesilio € un discorso, non esiliato, ma piuttosto esilico: esso assume 
cioé l’esilio come sfondo oramai lontano, e lavora (come abbiam visto) sulle sue 
conseguenze piu prossime, pill modeste, meno drammatiche. (Il discorso esilico 
contemporaneo é solo apparentemente esile.) Qui la calibratura ¢ essenziale, e 
viene dalla riflessione genealogica. La questione é: Quando é che il problema 
dell’esilio/autoesilio prende forma in termini che siano pertinenti alla nostra 
modernita? 

Formulando cosi la domanda, non possiamo che prendere le distanze da, per 
esempio, l’anacronismo che sarebbe oggi il richiamo alla citata esperienza 
dantesca (e petrarchesca, ecc.). Si potrebbe pero ipotizzare che resti operativa per 
noi l’esperienza dei poeti europei erranti (Foscolo, Byron, Shelley, ecc.). E in 
verita 10 credo che vi sia (0 vi sia stata) in ognuno di noi qualche fibra che 
risuona alle parole di colui che fra i nostri poeti moderni é ancora il peggio 
compreso. Quando per esempio uno dei suoi “io” narranti osserva (parlando di 
colui che egli chiama “l’amico mio Diogene"): 


Né tutta la sua eloquenza, né il suo esempio, che vale assai pil, mi hanno potuto mai 
fare cosmopolita nel cuore ...— non posso. La mia ragione presa alle strette degli 
argomenti e della trista verita dell’esperienza ha detto scuotendo appena la testa di si; 


41 Si veda per esempio loli, Glauco Cambon, italianista dell’ identificazione e dell’esilio. A 
proposito: ]’analisi che sto delineando, e che é accentrata sui poeti, dovrebbe essere allargata non 
solo (com’é ovvio, e come é stato gia discusso) ai narratori; ma anche ai critici letterari, e saggisti 
in generale. 

2 Vedi per esempio Stallybrass e White, The Politics and Poetics of Transgression, specialmente 
alle pagine: 3-4, 17-18, 193, 196, 200-1. Questo libro & appropriatamente critico verso gli eccessi 
ideologistici, ma @ ancora cosi strettamente legato a un approccio socio-materialistico alquanto 
riduttivo (l’esperienza di Bataille, per esempio, é li assente) da non render giustizia alla genealogia 
di tutta questa problematica di gerarchie dell’alto e del basso. Genealogia che é@ quella, 
propriamente filosofica, delle concezioni gerarchiche, processionali, emanative tipiche del 
neoplatonismo antico: precristiano (Proclo, ecc.) e cristiano (Dionigi Areopagita, ecc.). 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America : 319 


ma il cuore — e Diogene che lo sa ve ne attesti — é restato da quel di malinconico, e 
non ha risposto neppure un et. 


Cid che rende drammatico |’esilio é@ il modo in cui esso costringe (dopo le prime 
illusioni aggregative) a scendere dentro l’abisso della propria solitudine, a restare 
faccia a faccia con essa. Ancora una volta, io credo che nessuno di noi possa non 
riconoscere una parte di sé in quest’altra proposizione di Ugo Foscolo; 
proposizione di tipo deittico, che nel caso specifico é tanto pil struggentemente 
poetica quanto pit essa é inesatta a filo e rigor di logica: “Ogni uomo pare che 
sia fatto per vivere nella sua patria ed io . . . per abbandonarla”.*3 

Ho voluto rivendicare la dignita culturale e spirituale di questi pensieri anche 
all’insegna di uno scambio dialettico tra gli studi di italianistica fuori e quelli 
dentro I’Italia. Una, infatti, delle pit’ importanti acquisizioni culturali 
dell’esperienza in terra straniera é quella di riscoprire (verificare, vorrei dire, nel 
proprio corpo) la persistente validita di quel pensiero romantico che troppo 
spesso la traditionis traditio italiana — con quel suo gran sogno filologico e 
neoclassico che non é mai morto — tende a guardare come qualche cosa di 
obsoleto. 

Cid detto, io tuttavia non intendo proporre l’esperienza di tipo foscoliano 
come genealogia pertinente per la problematica contemporanea dell’ esilio; ma 
non perché essa sia troppo “antiquata” — al contrario. E mi spiego. La questione 
angosciosa che l’esilio pone all’uomo di cultura é: Sara possibile recuperare in 
terra straniera quel controllo degli strumenti intellettuali che consente di 
continuare, e far progredire, la propria attivita di scrittura e pensiero? O si restera 
invece nell’ambito privatistico, risentito, continuamente rivolto all’indietro, 
memorialistico, auto-glossante? O addirittura, si cadra nell’abisso della 
tacitumita?“ 

Abbiamo gia veduto come I’esilio si collochi sotto la figura generale del 
passaggio di soglia, dunque rientri almeno potenzialmente nella categoria 
dell’iniziazione. L’effetto fondamentale di questa collocazione é quello di 
rovesciare i segni abituali del passaggio esilico, revocando in dubbio la 
pertinenza di ogni direzionalita univoca. Qual é la patria veramente, e quale é la 
terra straniera? La distinzione si offusca... 

Ma torniamo al problema specificamente genealogico. In questo senso, la 
figura fondamentalmente pertinente per definire in maniera generale il perimetro 
moderno del lavoro intellettuale in esilio @ proprio la figura che é 
tradizionalmente legata alla nascita della filosofia moderna: Cartesio ovvero 


43 Entrambe le citazioni sono da /I sesto tomo dell’ io; per cui vedi Foscolo, Prose varie d’arte, alla 
p. 9 e p. 25 rispettivamente. In tutti e due i casi, i puntini di sospensione appartengono al testo 
originale. 

Distinguo tacitumita da siler:zio: il primo é un fenomeno drammaticamente negativo, il secondo 
é la struttura fondante della spiritualita umana. Per una prima fenomenologia della tacitumita, vedi 
Il concetto dell’ angoscia (Kierkegaard, Opere, pp. 175-79). 


320 : Paolo Valesio 


(vichianamente) Renato Delle Carte. 

Potremmo dire che la problematica moderna dell’intellettuale che si 
autoesilia ha inizio alla fine del marzo 1628, quando il trentatreenne René 
Descartes raggiunge Amsterdam, iniziando cosi l’autoesilio olandese che 
occupera il resto della sua vita. (Sara interrotto soltanto dalla visita a Stoccolma: 
ma sono — tra la fine del 1649 e l’inizio del 1650 — gli ultimi mesi della sua 
esistenza. ) E strano che i biografi di Descartes non sembrino prestare attenzione 
al problema di questo esilio autoimposto.*° 

Peccato — perché dall’esperienza cartesiana ci viene un significativo cenno 
d’incoraggiamento. Incoraggiamento a considerare la dignita di alternative alla 
monumentalita di figure stabili, ai grandi pensatori stanziali. E l’alternativa, 
diciamo, tra Rousseau (per cui la genealogia della mobilita irrequieta é la vita 
non “raisonnable” di Descartes) da un lato e Vico dall’altro; Lukacs da un lato e 
Croce dall’altro; e cosi via. Insomma: sono, per noi, particolarmente importanti 
le figure di quei pensatori i quali ci ricordano che si puo svolgere una sistematica 
attivita di pensiero anche fuori dal territorio che contiene le ossa dei propri padri. 

E se ho tornato a evocare figure di non poeti non é soltanto in nome di 
quella continuita tra poeti e critici di cui parlavo sopra. Ma é anche e sopra tutto 
perché la filosofia é sorella della poesia, dunque il lavoro del poeta si colloca 
all’insegna del raccoglimento piuttosto che a quella della dispersione. Ecco 
perché genealogie di poeti fra i due mondi come quella, gia descritta, di Carnevali 
o quella (molto pili significativa) del vagabondante Campana non sono qui 
proposte in quanto immagini di poeti “maledetti”. Sono invece ricordate, queste 
genealogie, per il nucleo di sobrieta — e di filosofia — che permane 
nell’esperienza di questi poeti, e che ha a che fare con qualche cosa cui ho gia 
accennato: un’esperienza ed esperimento della fluidita. 

Solo chi é stato (0 si é) esiliato, dunque, pud capire l’importanza che 
l’esperienza esilica ha nel caratterizzare tutti gli aspetti — intellettuali, 
sentimentali, spirituali, persino fisici — nella vita di un uomo o di una donna? 
Non credo che cid sia vero. Una delle lezioni che l’esule deve apprendere 
(altrimenti non @ un vero esule) é quella di trascendere gli specialismi, 
esclusivismi, divisionismi. 


45 La sezione Reasons for exile (pp. 111-13) in Haldane, Descartes & imbarazzata e interamente 
contraddittoria. Ma, almeno, questa studiosa vede un problema che altri di fatto ignorano (vedi 
Adam, Descartes e Alquié, Descartes), 0 lo sfiorano come se non esistesse in quanto problema 
(vedi Dinier, La vie raisonnable de Descartes, p. 47; il titolo del libro non é ironico . . .). Non posso 
che lasciare la questione agli specialisti. Mi limito a notare che questo problema ha aspetti sia 
filosofici che romanzeschi. (“Savez-vous ce qu’est devenue, dans cette ville, l’une des maisons 
que abrita Descartes? Un asile d’aliénés. Oui, c’est le délire général et la persecution”; cosi si 
esprime la voce narrante ne La chute di Camus, p. 134 — e la citta in questione é naturalmente 
Amsterdam.) Il saggio di Derrida, S’il y a lieu de traduire. IT. Les romans de Descartes ou 
l'économie des motifs (alle pp. 311-341 di Du droit a la philosophie) ha un titolo promettente in 
questo senso, ma purtroppo non si occupa del problema che ho appena delineato. 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 321 


Non vi é, allora, una esclusivita dell’esule. Ma @ lecito parlare di una 
consapevolezza d’esilio come di un’esperienza epistemologicamente 
caratterizzante e intellettualmente fondante. Tornando, dunque, al caso da cui ero 
partito: come la vita di Cartesio non é accidentale rispetto alla sua filosofia (il 
desiderio che questo rapporto sia accidentale é forse l’utopia che Cartesio passa in 
consegna alla prima modernita — ma non deve essere necessariamente il nostro 
punto di vista oggi); cosi, per proprieta transitiva, il fenomeno centrale di tale 
vita (l’autoesilio) non pud non essere caratterizzante di un qualche aspetto della 
sua filosofia.*° 

La consapevolezza dell’esistenza di un certo nesso @ pili importante della 
spiegazione di quel nesso. Dunque, non solo non presumo di azzardare alcuna 
“teoria” sull’autoesilio di Descartes (nel quale la consapevolezza dell’eterodossia 
ideologica e religiosa deve aver giuocato un ruolo essenziale); ma noto anche che 
l’autoconsapevolezza della centralita dell’esilio @ molto pit’ importante di 
qualsiasi spiegazione specifica di questo o quel processo di esilio. 

Il momento essenziale é quello in cui uno diviene consapevole del proprio 
esilio, si con-sa esule (il che non equivale certo a una con-solazione). E parte 
integrante di questa accettazione é /a rinunzia a sviluppare un’ ermeneutica del 
proprio esilio. Cid che conta dunque non é chiedersi perché si sia originariamente 
scelta (0 si sia stati prescelti da) questa condizione; bensi, quello che importa é 
fare qualche cosa di tale condizione. Varie sono, su questa base, le soluzioni 
esistenziali e culturali, e non pretendo di offrirne una formula riduttiva. Noto 
soltanto che quel che si fa sulla base di questa situazione sembra incoraggiare, 
sovente, lo sviluppo di una sempre pit fraterna comprensione della condizione 
umana. 

Per concludere: forse sono stato troppo pessimista quando, pili sopra, ho 
parlato di una scarsezza di genealogie per la letteratura italiana fra i due mondi. In 
fondo, non é troppo semplicistico (anzi, é una di quelle connessioni delle quali 
vive la storia della poesia) intravedere un filo sottile ma forte che lega lo 
spagnolo poetico e venato d’italianismi in cui Colombo si esprime nel suo 
Diario all’ italiano marezzato d’inglese in cui la nostra tribi scrive poesia oggi, a 
cinquecento anni di distanza. 


Yale University 


46 “To non sono mai stato in grado di capire come un uomo diventi la speculazione, la 
speculazione oggettiva e il pensiero puro. Un uomo infatti nel mondo pud diventare molte cose; 
come si legge in una canzone tedesca, pud diventare nobile, povero diavolo, dottore, calzolaio, 
santo .. . e fin qui io posso comprendere i tedeschi. Un uomo puo diventare un pensatore, 0 uno 
scimunito; ma diventare la speculazione — questo é il pit incomprensibile di tutti i miracoli” (nota 
dell’autore — nel par. 3, cap. 2, parte seconda — alla Postilla conclusiva non scientifica alle 
‘Briciole di filosofia’ [1846]; vedi Kierkegaard, Opere, p. 314 [i puntini di sospensione sono nel 
testo originale]). 


322 Paolo Valesio 


Opere citate 


Adam Charles, Descartes: sa vie et son oeuvre, Paris, Boivin, 1937. 

Alquié Ferdinand, Descartes: l'homme et I’ oeuvre, Paris: Hatier-Boivin, 1956. 

Benjamin Walter, //luminations, trad. Harry Zohn, introd. Hannah Arendt, New York, 
Shocken Books, 1978 [1968]. 

Beynet Michel, L’image de l’Amérique dans la culture italienne de I’ entre-deux- 
guerres, 2 voll., Aix-en-Provence, Service des Publications, Université de 
Provence, 1990. 

Camus Albert, La chute, Paris, Gallimard, 1956. 

Camevali Emanuel, The Autobiography of Emanuel Carnevali, compilazione e 
prefazione di Kay Boyle, New York, Horizon Press, s. d. [1967]. 

______, A Hurried Man, introduzione di Dorothy Dudley, Paris, Contact 
Editions/Three Mountains Press, 1925. 

, Il primo dio, ac. di Maria Pia Carnevali, Milano, Adelphi, 1978. 
, Voglio disturbare l'America (Lettere a Benedetto Croce e Giovanni Papini ed 
altri), ac. di Gabriel Cacho Millet, Firenze, La Casa Usher, 1980. 

Carravetta Peter, Prefaces to the Diaphora: Rhetorics, Allegory and the Interpretation 
of Postmodernity, West Lafayette, Indiana, Purdue University Press, 1991. 

Cecchi Emilio, America amara, Firenze, Sansoni, 1939; ora in Nuovo continente: 
Messico, America amara, America rivisitata, Firenze, Sansoni, 1958. 

Creeley Robert, Selected Poems, Berkeley, University of California Press, 1991. 

Deleuze Gilles e Félix Guattari, Kafka: pour une littérature mineure, Paris, Minuit, 

1975. (Kafka: Toward a Minor Literature, trad. di Dana Polan, introd. di Réda 

Bensmaia Minneapolis, U of Minnesota P, 1986. 

, Mille plateaux: Capitalisme et schizophrénie, Paris: Minuit, 1980. 
(Thousand Plateaux: Capitalism and Schizophrenia, trans. Brian Massumi, 
Minneapolis, University of Minnesota Press, 1987.) 

Della Terza Dante, Da Vienna a Baltimora: la diaspora degli intellettuali europei negli 
Stati Uniti d’America, Roma, Editori Riuniti, 1987. 

Derrida Jacques, Du droit a la philosophie, Paris, Galilée, 1990. 

Dinier Louis, La vie raisonnable de Descartes, Paris, Plon, 1926 

Fante John, Wait until Spring, Bandini, 1938, Santa Rosa, California, Black Sparrow 
Press, 1991. 

Fernandez Dominique, /I mito dell’America negli intellettuali italiani (1930-1950), 
Caltanissetta, Sciascia, 1969. 

Foscolo Ugo, Prose varie d’arte, Edizione Nazionale delle Opere di Ugo Foscolo, 
tomo V, ed. critica a c. di Mario Fubini, Firenze, Le Monnier, 1951. 

From the Margin: Writings in Italian Americana, a c. di Anthony J. Tamburri, Paolo 
A. Giordano e Fred L. Gardaphé, West Lafayette, Indiana, Purdue UP, 1991. 

Giammattei Emma, La morale dell’ esota, in Studi di italianistica in onore di Giovanni 
Cecchetti, a c. di Paolo Cherchi e Michelangelo Picone, Ravenna, Longo, 1988, 
pp. 309-13. 

Giovannitti Arturo, Arrows in the Gale, introduzione di Helen Keller, Riverside, 


Riscoperte poetiche dell’ America 323 


Connecticut, Hillacre Bookhouse, 1914. 
, The Collected Poems of Arturo Giovannitti, introduzione di Norman 
Thomas, Chicago, Edizioni E. Clemente, 1962. 

Haldane Elizabeth, Descartes: His Life and Times, New York, American Scholar 
Publications, 1966. 

Hallberg Robert von, a c. di, Canons, Chicago, Chicago UP, 1984. 

Ioli Giovanna, Glauco Cambon, italianista dell’ identificazione e dell’ esilio, “Tpotesi 
80: rivista quadrimestrale di cultura” I/II (1989). 

Italy’s Ultramodern, Experimental Lyrics, a c. di Justin Vitiello, New York, Peter 
Lang, 1992. 

Johnson Mark, The Body in the Mind: The Bodily Basis of Meaning, Imagination, 
and Reason, Chicago, The U of Chicago P, 1987. 

Kierkegaard Séren, Opere, ac. di Comelio Fabro, Firenze, Sansoni, 1972. 

La letteratura deli’ emigrazione: gli scrittori di lingua italiana nel mondo, a c. di Jean- 
Jacques Marchand, Torino, Fondazione Giovanni Agnelli, 1991. 

Livorni Emesto, Dall’emigrazione all'esilio: il paradosso dell'esodo, “Romance 
Languages Annual”, v. 1 (1989), 174-77. 

I nuovi poeti futuristi, a c. di F. T. Marinetti, Roma, Edizioni Futuriste di “Poesia”, 
1925. 

Poesaggio: poeti italiani d’America, ac. Gi Peter Carravetta e Paolo Valesio, Paese 
(Treviso), Pagus, in corso di stampa. 

Poesia dell’ esilio: antologia della lirica antinazista tedesca, a c. di Giancarlo Mariani, 
Abano Terme, Piovan Editore, 1987. 

Poeti d’oggi (1900-1925), 2 ed. riveduta e accresciuta, a c. di Giovanni Papini e 
Pietro Pancrazi, Firenze, Vallecchi, 1925. 

I poeti futuristi. Con un proclama di F. T. Marinetti, e uno studio sul verso libero di 
Paolo Buzzi, a c. di F. T. Marinetti, Milano, Edizioni Futuriste di “Poesia”, 
1912. 

Poetry, 155:1-2 (Ottobre-Novembre 1989), dedicato a “Italian Poetry since World 
War Il.” 

Prezzolini Giuseppe, / trapiantati, Milano, Longanesi, 1969. 

Quétes: textes d' auteurs italo-québécois, a c. di Fulvio Caccia e Antonio D’ Alfonso, 
Montréal, Guernica, 1983. 

“The Review of Contemporary Fiction”, 12.3 (1993), numero speciale dedicato alla 
“New Italian Fiction”, a c. di Francesco Guardiani. 

Rubeo Ugo, ac. di, Mal d'America: da mito a realta, Roma, Editori Riuniti, 1987. 

Senghor Léopold Sédar, a c. di, Anthologie de la nouvelle poésie négre et malgache de 
langue francaise (précédée de ‘Orphée noir’ par Jean Paul Sartre), 5 ed., Paris, P. 
U. F., 1985. 

Soldati Mario, America primo amore, Firenze, Bemporad, 1935. 

Stallybrass Peter e Allon White, The Politics and Poetics of Transgression, Ithaca, 
New York, Cornell UP, 1986. 

Stock Brian, Listening to the Text: On the Uses of the Past, Baltimore, The Johns 
Hopkins UP, 1990. 

Sweezy Paul, The Present as History: Essays and Reviews on Capitalism and History, 
New York, Monthly Review Press, 1953. 

Tamburri, Anthony J., To Hyphenate or Not to Hyphenate, Montréal, Guernica, 


324 Paolo Valesio 


1991. 

Turner Victor, Dramas, Fields, and Metaphors: Symbolic Action in Human Society, 
Ithaca, Cornell UP, 1974. 

Tyler Stephen, The Unspeakable: Discourse, Dialogue and Rhetoric in the 
Postmodern World, Madison, The U of Wisconsin P, 1987. 

Valesio Paolo, Fantasma di poesia futura (Per un’ estetica della poesia italiana di oggi- 
domani), in Forma e parola: studi in memoria di Fredi Chiappelli, a c. di Dennis 
Dutschke, Pier Massimo Forni, et al., Roma, Bulzoni, 1992. 

, Gabriele d’ Annunzio: The Dark Flame, New Haven, Yale UP, 1992. 

, Il nuovo tribalismo, “Alfabeta” (Maggio 1987), 12-13. 

, Pasolini e la vena della trasparenza, ‘“‘Novilunio: rivista della poesia 
italiana”, 1 (1991), 45-59. 

, Writer between Two Worlds: Italian Writing in the United States Today, 
“Differentia: Review of Italian Thought”, 3-4 (1989), 259-76. 

“T] veltro”, 29.1-2 (1985); 29.3-4 (1985). 

Vittorini Elio, a c. di, Americana: raccolta di narratori, note critiche di Claudio 
Gorlier e Giuseppe Zaccaria; in appendice, Introduzione all’ed. 1942 di Emilio 
Cecchi, 2 voll., Milano, Bompiani, 1985. 










| afte 
Fria yeni gilereie ‘Yrs La’ Sn ee aur bovitieled ifeviana” i) «me geria 
dPeanthvones tdivate ‘ail Bepos tii Beatrice i Finaeee (1990) f pete 4 aes 


Ae Ma CMa UIT; th dae | 2 A ‘anaes 

Rcd a Rs aly 

OU, sets Ssh ain, Ni aide _s 
otiing Yirwments dh fickros obo narvele te deodione eater 

SHPO ANS HAIN SUNY: re er nay’ a eran m saxdlntng a 
onoiver ,lénoinnoube'ifob imaidor it 2 he 

Ope la tatyine olfeb acute s oNininurtel a et nee i altaya 
ib oitehizah Inb ola¥l CU) “Home ib alunoixelt sole wUSK MAO otn52994 
_ ib ane inath ogoh ,ofllo iz hitirant) avuttivg: alls Uewilss “Higa” omenipo 


ovit preoye AY ojo atenirams) eobit Alle Meter 
es AL oe 


Hiland es tip s Vitoiseliqmne ib ovove! cue tari BE. ney add 
| nw? He Geb itv me 5. aay ij He > initua tg Nails 
: 





TAG a Wiki Dbbie rat 
: ald ae 








oO cere L 


SSP WS aR 
er ewe 
santesioel & rath Be 
one 


if) 
y f cA 
le ; 
ey ie eI t oe 
; LOM nye 6 
a ‘ 
7 ik ‘6h ; fi 6 ie ia 
‘ re aT) "ater ria) 
> 


REVIEWS AND NOTES 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 


Edited with the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, 
Albert N. Mancini, Gustavo Costa, Valeria Finucci, 
and John P. Welle. 


Anna Santoro, Francesca Veglione. Catalogo della_ scrittura 
femminile italiana a _ stampa presente nei fondi librari della 
Biblioteca Nazionale di Napoli (dalle origini della stampa al 1900). 
Napoli: C. P. E., 1990. Pp. XVII + 116. 


Il catalogo, a cura e con prefazione di Anna Santoro, si inserisce nella gamma delle 
ricerche sovvenzionate dal C.P.E. (Centro per 1 problemi dell’educazione), sezione 
Progetto Donna, e “registra la produzione femminile a stampa, dalle origini al 1900, 
presente oggi nella Biblioteca Nazionale di Napoli” (IX). Nato dal desiderio di 
colmare “‘buchi” culturali della scrittura femminile, si offre, dopo dieci anni di 
ricerche, come prezioso ausilio alla critica femminista che troppo spesso, scrive la 
Santoro, ricorre alla produzione femminile straniera, implicitamente ammettendo la 
scarsita dell’aborigena. 

La Santoro, affiancata nel suo lavoro di compilazione e ricerca da Francesca 
Veglione, ha reperito scritti di donne su donne e sui vari aspetti della cultura dei 
quattro secoli da lei considerati, favorendo cosi “una chiave di lettura della storia e 
delle storie finora inedita e invece estremamente importante e certo indispensabile 
proprio per la corretta conoscenza della storia culturale ‘generale’” (x). 

Questa pubblicazione sollecita indagini parallele in altre citta con lo scopo di 
realizzare un catalogo nazionale della scrittura femminile italiana. E una presa di 
coscienza anagrafica e testuale che non si propone giudizi estetici e strutturali, ma 
offre nella sezione alfabetica 650 nomi di scrittrici, alcune consacrate dalle storie 
letterarie tradizionali, come la Colonna, la Stampa, la Serao, altre, come la Percoto o 
la Battiferri, menzionate in studi specifici, altre sconosciute ai pil, come la Moderata 
Fonte, o Maria Savi Lopez. 

L’indice a soggetto conta 68 voci, ed il termine va preso in senso largo, avendo 
le ricercatrici inserito soggetti reali, ma a volte nomi di autori la traduzione delle cui 
opere, come nel caso di Spencer, & decisamente importante per la scrittura femminile. 
Tale parte é perfettibile di modificazione secondo le nuove terminologie che il futuro 
sicuramente apportera, come scrive la Santoro. 

L’indice cronologico, altra sezione del catalogo, parte dalle Rime di Vittoria 
Colonna del 1539 e annovera poetesse pili o meno note del secolo XVI. Esercizi 
spirituali e testi poetici fanno parte del XVII secolo, mentre ampia e varia appare la 
produzione del secolo seguente, rappresentata da testi matematici, filosofici, 
geografici, e dalla traduzione di Cartesio, opera di Eleonora Barbapiccola. La Santoro 
richiama l’attenzione sugli “‘scritti d’occasione” (nozze, morti, ecc.), “tutti momenti 


Italian Bookshelf 327 


di un sociale che trasporta il privato nel pubblico e fissa la lettura di tali 
avvenimenti” (XIII). 

comunque il XIX secolo che vede l’esplosione di temi e generi diversificati, 
includendo giornali diretti o fondati da donne, volti a definire la donna nuova nella 
sua produzione letteraria-scientifica. 

La Santoro conclude facendo notare come molte opere femminili sono assenti 
nella Biblioteca Nazionale, e le cause sono ascrivibili al processo di formazione e 
alla politica culturale della Biblioteca stessa. Lo spazio che il XIX secolo lascia alla 
donna, come si rileva in “La donna italiana descritta da scrittrici italiane” in una serie 
di conferenze tenute all’Esposizione Beatrice di Firenze (1890), fa parte di una 
manovra di recupero di “una societa in trasformazione che non puo pil ignorare... 
l’apporto delle donne, ma si premunisce assegnando loro degli spazi controllati” 
(XVI). 

Il catalogo, con le sue chiarificanti pagine di introduzione é@ senza dubbio un 
ottimo strumento di ricerca che agevola lo studioso nella localizzazione di una 
cospicua produzione femminile, in parte ancora da esplorare. 


Rosalia Colombo Ascari, Sweet Briar College 


Rachel Jacoff and Jeffrey T. Schnapp, eds. The Poetry of Allusion: 
Virgil and Ovid in Dakte's "Commedia". Stanford: Stanford UP, 
1991. Pp. xiii + 333. 


Introducing, a few years ago, the first volume of the University of Pennsylvania 
Press’s Lectura Dantis Americana series, Robert Hollander ventured to assume for a 
moment the garb of a prophet. While admitting that — as so many others in that ill- 
starred profession have found to their cost — “what the future holds is always difficult 
to prognosticate,” he went on: “I believe that we shall find, for example, more 
interest in Dante’s relation to some of the classical auctores other than Virgil (the 
Statius revival has already begun, Lucan waits in the wings for better treatment, and 
an American aetas ovidiana is probably about to begin).” (See Anthony K. Cassell, 
“Inferno” I (Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1989], xiv.) 

Not the least interesting thing about the volume under review is that it fully 
confirms the accuracy of Robert Hollander’s prognostication. Every one of its three 
hundred-odd pages of text testifies to the continuing scholarly interest in Dante’s 
treatment of his poetic forebears in Roman culture; the second half of the book is 
entirely devoted to Ovid; Statius is a substantial presence in several of its constituent 
essays, and is mentioned in several more; and poor Lucan is accorded a scant half- 
dozen references, most of them no more than incidental. Yet even if some at least of 
the other members of Dante’s bella scola of classical poets are beginning, at last, to 
come into their own as far as Dante scholars are concerned, there can be no doubt that 
the major poetic presence with which both author and critics of the Commedia have to 
come to terms is still that of Publius Vergilius Maro. The Poetry of Allusion will 
make a significant contribution to the furtherance of that process — as it also will to 
the (re-?)emergence of an aetas ovidiana and the incipient Statius revival. 


328 Italian Bookshelf 


Although some of the articles in this volume are reprinted, either verbatim or 
with more or less extensive revisions, from earlier publication in journals or books, 
a clear majority (eleven of sixteen) are appearing here for the first time. (The 
recidivists include Robert Ball, “Theological Semantics: Virgil’s Pietas and Dante’s 
Pieta’19-36; William A. Stephany, “Dante’s Harpies: ’Tristo annunzio di futuro 
danno’” 37-44; Michael C. J. Putnam, “‘Virgil’s Inferno” 94-112; Jeffrey T. Schnapp, 
“*S} pia l’ombra d’Anchise si porse’: Paradiso 15:25” 145-56; and Kevin Brownlee, 
“Ovid’s Semele and Dante’s Metamorphosis: Paradiso 21-22” 224-32.) According to 
the editors’ preface (vii-viii), both the idea for the collection and most of the articles 
that comprise it emerged from a pair of Dante Institutes held in the mid-1980s at 
Dartmouth College under the auspices of the National Endowment for the Humanities: 
this institutional and collaborative background helps, perhaps, to explain both the 
remarkable consistency, of both quality and approach, that links the contributions of 
the various authors involved, and the slightly disquieting sense of coziness generated 
by their numerous and frequently (if deservedly) glowing references to each other’s 
work. All the contributors, however, bring to their studies of particular passages in 
the Commedia and its classical predecessors not only an enviable familiarity with 
their texts, Latin and vernacular alike, but also a highly developed philological 
instinct, a thorough knowledge of relevant secondary literature in several traditions, 
and an interest (the degree of which visibly varies, of course, according to the 
identity of the contributor) in the body of contemporary theoretical writing that can 
be loosely but usefully gathered under the umbrella of “intertextuality.” 

Each of the articles, with the exception of Robert Ball’s erudite study in 
comparative etymology (which here has a largely — though invaluably — 
introductory function), is, in fact, centered on a specific instance of Dantean allusion 
to a textual precedent in either the Aeneid or the Metamorphoses; but each goes 
beyond straightforward Quellenforschung in pursuit of more exotic hermeneutical 
prey than traditional analysis of Dante’s sources has ever brought to earth. It has to 
be said, though, that — perhaps because of the disparity of concerns and variety of 
background and approach that are structurally inherent in a volume of this kind — the 
individual analyses of particular passages tend to remain more memorable than the 
concomitant attempts to derive an over-arching theory of Dantean allusivity or the 
Commedia’s intertextual relationships with its Latinate master-texts. None of the 
distinguished scholars on hand in this book is, inevitably, allowed enough space to 
develop such an argument to the degree that it and they deserve: flashes of insight, 
provocative summations, suggestive apercus, are here in plenty, but in the end they 
can only provide the building-blocks for a coherent theoretical argument on this 
theme, rather than constructing the edifice itself. 

That caveat once entered, however, it remains to acknowledge both the whole 
volume’s immensely significant contribution to comparative study of the Commedia, 
and the searing perceptiveness of many of the specific analyses, especially, perhaps, 
in the half of the collection devoted to Ovid — one thinks of the exegetical acumen 
and theological profundity of Kevin Brownlee, “Pauline Vision and Ovidian Speech 
in Paradiso 1” (202-13), for instance, or the cultured wit of Rachel Jacoff, “The 
Rape/Rapture of Europa: Paradiso 27” (233-46). Elsewhere, Peter S. Hawkins supplies 
a pair of articles redolent of his customary expertise in matters Biblical (“Dido, 
Beatrice, and the Signs of Ancient Love” 113-30, and “Watching Matelda” 181-201 


Italian Bookshelf 329 


— was I right to hear an echo of Australia’s unofficial national anthem in this title, 
by the way?); Robert Hollander and Jeffrey T. Schnapp provide an intriguingly 
complementary pair of studies of what seems to be Dante’s self-conscious re-writing 
of his ostensibly authoritative auctores (Robert Hollander, “Dante’s Misreadings of 
the Aeneid in Inferno 20” 77-93, and Jeffrey T. Schnapp, “Dante’s Ovidian Self- 
Correction in Paradiso 17” 214-23); and equally worthwhile readings of various 
extracts from the Commedia are contributed by Douglas Biow (“From Ignorance to 
Knowledge: The Marvelous in Inferno 13” 45-61), Rachel Jacoff (“Intertextualities in 
Arcadia: Purgatorio 30:49-51” 131-44), Pamela Royston Macfie (“Ovid, Arachne, and 
the Poetics of Paradise” 159-72), and William A. Stephany (“Erysichthon and the 
Poetics of the Spirit” 173-80). But in many ways the highlight of this volume — as 
was, perhaps, only to be expected — is John Freccero, “The Eternal Image of the 
Father” (62-76), which focuses on the encounter with Brunetto Latini in /nferno XV. 
This article exemplifies, with fascinating clarity, the unique and unmistakable 
characteristics — whether they be seen as strengths or weaknesses (or both) — of 
Freccero’s recent work on Dante: admirably learned, stylistically elegant, lucidly 
reasoned, subtly meditative and unusually thought-provoking, it yet relies on 
Augustine and Plato to a degree that some will persist in finding inappropriate, it 
suffers from a plainly inadequate grounding in the current debates about medieval 
attitudes toward homosexuality and twentieth-century understanding of them, and its 
attempted parallel with Thomas Mann’s Der Tod in Venedig simply does not 
convince. But, for all that, this is an article of quite extraordinary resonance: unlike 
so much (most?) critical writing on Dante, it genuinely lingers in the mind. It affords 
in every respect a fitting centerpiece for this wholly excellent collection of essays. 


Steven Botterill, University of California at Berkeley 


Dante’s Lyric Poems. Translated into English Verse by Joseph 
Tusiani. Introduction and Notes by Giuseppe C. DiScipio. 
Brooklyn: Legas, 1992. Pp. 242. 


This handsome bilingual edition of Dante’s complete lyrical works, translated by the 
eminent poet/professor Joseph Tusiani, embodies the auspicious beginning of 
another important Legas publishing enterprise under the direction of editor Gaetano 
Cipolla. Having already inaugurated series of Sicilian poets in translation and 
scholarly works on Sicily, Cipolla has now launched “Italian Poetry in Translation” 
with this tour de force “performance” by his ex-professor and mentor. As G. C. 
DiScipio says in his introduction to Dante’s life and writings, “the present 
translation . . . by Joseph Tusiani represents, in my opinion, a milestone. The reader 
will notice three elements adorning Tusiani’s endeavour: elegance, clarity, 
musicality, with the added dimension of faithfulness to the original and an acute ear 
for ‘auscultare’” (xxii-xxiii). This reviewer, with qualifications to be indicated below, 
concurs with this assessment — especially after hearing Tusiani literally perform 
some of his translations at the American Association of Italian Studies Conference, 
April 11, 1992, at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC. 


330 Italian Bookshelf 


While the quality of Tusiani’s version of the lyrical Dante is consistently high, I 
find it most “sweet and useful” to focus on some of the major poems in the collection 
to demonstrate just how fine a translator Tusiani is. In spite of a few reservations — 
inevitable in any critique of a translation of the likes of Dante — I aim to clarify how 
Tusiani, almost “eternally” faithful to the original, is truly creative in his craft of 
transposing Dante’s works into bona fide English poems that reproduce a medieval 
sensibility in sound, imagery and sense. 

From the very first poem of the collection — “A ciascun’alma presa e gentil 
core” (24-25) from the Vita nuova — Tusiani’s intent is clear: to create a stylized 
English that gives the “flavor” of medieval Italian. Like the Pre-Raphaelite 
poet/translator Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Tusiani resorts to a romanticized language 
that, while it does not literally mimic Dante’s Italian in medieval English, echoes 
with the appropriate emotional and tonal sfumature of the Vita nuova through an 
artfully invented archaic style — the only mode, Joseph Brodsky once told me, in 
which one should translate Dante or Petrarch. Tusiani’s inverted syntax (“with horror 
rent”) and lexicon (“aglow,” “’twas,” “aflame’’) are fused with fluid pentameter and the 
“o” and “e” assonance and rhyme scheme of the original into an artistic whole: a 
sonnet in its own right. 

Tusiani’s inventiveness is similarly evident in Dante’s lovely “Tanto gentile e 
tanto onesta pare” (50-51) — the first line of which the translator renders in an 
extraordinarily non-cliched way: “So winsome and so worthy seems to me.” 
Furthermore, the romance language construction (so difficult to transpose) where an 
adjective can follow a progressive verb (“ch’ogne lingua deven tremando muta’) 
comes off smoothly and freshly as “that every tongue can only babble shy.” While 
one might quibble with the image of “every looking eye” (“looking” strikes me as 
metrical filler) and the translation of “labbia” (lips) as “features” (is the etymology of 
Latin, a language in which Tusiani is considered one of the major modern poets, at 
play here?), the fluidity and grace of the final, richly alliterative tercet is, to adapt 
another bard, “music (that) hath a... (most) . . . pleasing sound”: “A spirit full of 
love and tenderness / seems from her features ever to depart,/ that, reaching for the 
soul, says softly ‘Sigh.’” 

Equally successful is Tusiani’s version of “Guido, i’ vorrei che tu e Lapo ed io” 
(122-23), dedicated to Cavalcanti as the virtual manifesto of the Dolce Stil Novo — 
the first European school of hermetic “‘poets’ poets” so dear to Ezra Pound and T. S. 
Eliot. Instead of belaboring my points about an artistically achieved archaic 
language, I quote the sonnet in full to let readers enjoy it: 


Guido, I wish that Lapo, you and I, 

in one enchantment bound, right now could be 
inside a vessel faring on the sea, 

braving the wind, to your content and mine. 
Not only would no gale or stormy sky 
impediment or menace ever be, 

but living there in constant harmony, 

we would forever for more closeness sigh. 


And Mona Vanna and Mona Lagia, then, 


Italian Bookshelf 331 


with the one numbered in the thirty best, 

I wish the good enchanter there would place, 
where we would ever about love converse, 
and each of them would be of joy possessed, 
just as I reckon we would also be. 


These “heard melodies,” pace John Keats, are as sweet as one could hope for in a 
translation. 

Dante’s poetry, as any reader of the Inferno knows, could also be most earthy, 
scatological, obscene. In the tenzone (“dispute”) with Forese Donati (108-15), 
Tusiani captures the spirit and letter of that risqué, burlesque, popolareggiante side of 
the Divine Poet. “Bicci novel, Figliuol di non so cui” (112-13) is a showcase of 
Tusiani’s ability to transpose Dante’s irreverent, ironic, often caustic humor: 


O Bicci junior, son of no one knows 

till Mona Tessa tells your father’s name. ... 
Of such a man as you all men beware, 

who carry wallets.... 

And someone’s lying in his sorry bed, 

for fear you may be caught in thievery, 

who is to you what Joseph was to Christ.* 


(*That is, His stepfather. According to medieval folklore, Joseph was considered 
“comuto da Dio” — literally, cuckolded by God!) 

While Tusiani does not reproduce the shocking “Cristo-acquisto” rhyme 
(medieval taboo had it that no word should rhyme with Christ), might have translated 
“sola” more propitiously as “gullet,” and downplays the image of “la faccia fessa” (a 
face split like an ass) via his choice of “a scar upon his face,” the original impact of 
this raucous sonnet is not lost to the English reader. 

In the vein of the Dante who is as forceful in his dissonant and earthy language 
as he is in his melodious and ethereal style, Tusiani displays genuine virtuosity. The 
technique of employing “rime aspre” (“bitter, rough rhymes”) that Dante admits 
learning from “il miglior fabbro del parlar materno” — i.e., the Provencal troubadour 
Amaut Daniel — is brilliantly forged in Tusiani’s adaptation of “Com pit vi fere 
Amor co’ suoi vincastri” (130-31) with all its rugged, plosive consonance: 


The more Love wounds you with his withy tether, 
the fuller your submission and the faster. 

No other words of counsel can I muster: 

let those who need advice, put things together. 


So faithful is Tusiani to form that he adroitly manipulates Dante’s radical enjambment 
between the octave and the sestet of this sonnet: 


... So bid your heart be master 
along the road it has to pave.... 


352 Italian Bookshelf 


Tusiani does eschew the literal transposition of form in the greatest of Dante’s rime 
petrose: “Cosi nel mio parlar voglio esser aspro” (182-87). But the explosive rhythm 
and rugged diction of this canzone strike the reader all the same: 


I want to charge my words with so much harshness 
as this enchanting stone has in her actions, 

she who is ever growing 

harder in nature and more fierce and ruthless, 

and clothes in such hard adamant her being. .. . 


While I would offer “layer by layer” as an alternative to “bit after bit” in the 
following image — one of Dante’s most brilliant psychic adaptations of his beloved 
Daniel — the passage, in its entirety, expresses with pungency Dante’s hardly 
repressed rage of love-suffering: 


Oh, pitiless and most relentless file, 

so deafly wearing my existence out, 

why do you not refrain 

from gnawing at my heart, bit after bit, 

as I from naming him, who grants you might? 


So does the prevailing vision of this “stone lady” who thwarts her suitor’s passion: 
she is “my thievish, thankless, murderous foe” upon whom the poet, wounded male 
(or bear?) that he is, will wreak his “justice,” i.e., sexual revenge via his “weapon 
poem”: 


To such a woman, o my song, go straight — 
to her who wounded me and still conceals 
what I most hunger for: 

her very heart with a fast arrow cleave, 

for in revenge great honor we achieve. 


In these closing lines, Tusiani returns to the original rhyme scheme to orchestrate a 
most poignant coda. 

I need not recapitulate all of Tusiani’s achievements as a translator (they are 
enumerated on the inside flap of this book’s back cover). But it must be emphasized 
that after dedicating a good part of his writing career to translating prodigal sons of 
Italian literature (classics like Boccaccio, Michelangelo, Tasso, Leopardi), he has 
risen to the occasion of daring to give new life to the lyrics of “Padre Dante.” 

Justin Vitiello, Temple University 


Amilcare A. Iannucci, ed. Dante Today. Special issue of Quaderni 
d'italianistica 10.1-2 (1989): 1-417. 


Una breve introduzione di Amilcare Iannucci apre il volume decimo di Quaderni 


Italian Bookshelf 333 


d’ italianistica. L'introduzione, come d’altronde il primo articolo, che é un contributo 
dello stesso Iannucci, riflettono la varieta e novita di approcci metodologici della 
letteratura dantesca attuale. 

In realta il titolo del volume, Dante Today, non intende suggerire che si tratti di 
una messa a punto del panorama degli studi danteschi odierni, benché |’intento del 
curatore della raccolta sia stato quello di includere un insieme diversificato di 
prospettive e di approcci metodologici. I] volume consta di 14 articoli, cinque note, 
una serie di recensioni di 26 studi danteschi, e una rassegna bibliografica per gli anni 
1984-1988. Si tratta di articoli basantisi su accurate ricerche, ma non egualmente 
significativi come contributi agli studi danteschi. Alcuni articoli sarebbero potuti 
essere inclusi nella sezione Note, mentre perlomeno una delle note sarebbe dovuta 
esser parte del corpus degli articoli proprio per la significativita del progetto 
Dartmouth nell’ ambito degli studi danteschi attuali. 

L’articolo di A. Iannucci, “Dante, Television and Education,” apre il volume; é 
uno studio di notevole interesse per il dantista contemporaneo impegnato 
nell’insegnamento della Commedia. L’importanza della televisione e del mondo delle 
immagini, qual é@ reso accessibile dalla tecnologia contemporanea, é un dato di fatto 
che il docente deve considerare con attenzione e valutare. [1 suddetto articolo 
sensibilizza il lettore alla problematica relativa al ruolo della televisione, ed 
eventualmente del cinema e della radio, nella lettura e comprensione della Commedia. 
Iannucci illustra con chiarezza le qualita e i limiti di tre recenti programmi televisi 
(Divina commedia, in cento parti, RAI TV, 1988; A TV Dante, Channel 4, British TV; 
Dante's Divine Comedy dell’ Universita di Toronto). La problematica dell’articolo é 
relata al testo dantesco, ma é allo stesso tempo di carattere pil ampio, relativa ai 
metodi didattici seguiti nell’insegnamento e nella lettura di testi letterari. Questo 
studio ha anche il pregio di ricordarci la dimensione orale del poema dantesco che 
sopravvive tuttora attraverso il gusto tutto italiano della recitazione dello stesso. 

Segue l’articolo di Teodolinda Barolini, (“Detheologizing Dante. For a New 
Formalism in Dante Studies,” 35-53), la quale richiama gli studiosi ad una lettura o 
rilettura di Bruno Nardi, salutare ai fini di una rimessa in discussione dell’ approccio 
metodologico allo studio della Divina commedia, e critica l’accettazione acritica 
dell’approccio singletoniano da parte degli studiosi nordamericani. Alla radice 
dell’impasse ci sarebbe la questione dell’ autenticita della lettera a Cangrande (36). La 
Barolini sottolinea la complementarieta dell’idea di Dante profeta avanzata da Nardi e 
dell’adozione singletoniana dell’allegoria dei teologi come allegoria dantesca della 
commedia. I] profetismo di Nardi e la verita del livello letterale della lettura di 
Singleton in realta verterebbero sullo stesso argomento: la veridicita del discorso 
dantesco. In realta l’accettazione nardiana del profetismo dantesco ha un sottofondo 
culturale cha la distingue nettamente dalla posizione singletoniana. Le idee di profeta 
e di visione sono approfondite da Nardi nel suo saggio “Dante profeta” (Dante e la 
cultura medievale, 1942; Bari: Laterza, 1985) in un senso lato e alquanto articolato di 
visione e di profetismo, che non hanno corrispondezza, secondo me, nel contesto 
critico singletoniano. Sono d’accordo con l’affermazione della studiosa che 
l’autenticita dell’Epistola a Cangrande non dovrebbe influenzare l’approccio alla 
lettura della Commedia, ma credo che sia necessario ritornare ai testi danteschi che 
hanno discusso in profondita il processo della creazione artistica, e in particolare al 
Convivio, ché il senso litterale del testo qual é discusso dal Convivio @ ancora tutto 


334 Italian Bookshelf 


da chiarire. Questo volume di Quaderni d’italianistica non rispecchia un approccio 
prevalentemente singletoniano, e in questo risponde almeno in parte agli auspici di 
questa studiosa. Vorrei rilevare che la nota settima del suddetto articolo é inesatta se la 
Barolini intende suggerire attraverso la stessa che Singleton non conoscesse gli studi 
di Nardi, ché infatti lo cita e in particolare fa riferimento a Dante e la cultura medievale 
in An Essay on the Vita nuova (148); ma che Singleton abbia spesso ignorato il 
punto di vista di critici a lui contemporanei, questo é un dato di fatto. 

Nel terzo saggio (“Error in Dante’s Convivio” 55-69) M. Verdicchio ritiene che 
“Dante writes the Convivio to rectify an error of reading” (55). Il Convivio sarebbe 
l’opera in cui Dante denunzia e corregge gli errori della sua precedente produzione 
letteraria e poetica alla luce di una consapevolezza piu razionale e matura. Il 
correggere sarebbe tutt’uno, secondo questo studioso, col passaggio dal letterale 
all’allegorico. La figura retorica della dissimulatio sarebbe una delle tecniche adottate 
dal poeta. Dante pretende che la Sapienza si possa insegnare e apprendere facilmente. 
Questa strategia dantesca della dissimulazione si manifesta per Verdicchio anche 
nell’equazione dantesca dell’allegoria dei poeti con quella dei teologi. La cosiddetta 
strategia della dissimulatio sarebbe da ultimo subordinata alla speranza ancor viva in 
Dante, al tempo della stesura del Convivio, di ritornare a Firenze e di insegnare ai suoi 
compatrioti la via verso la felicita. La terminologia usata dallo studioso e in 
particolare l’insistenza nell’uso del termine strategia indicano il rifiuto di una 
genuina esperienza filosofica dantesca nel Convivio. Penso che questo punto di vista 
del Verdicchio rifletta il disconoscimento di un aspetto fondamentale dell’arte e della 
personalita dantesca, senza il quale é difficile intendere ed apprezzare il linguaggio 
poetico della Commedia, e in particolare quello del Paradiso. 

Il saggio di Cervigni s’incentra su, e sviluppa il rapporto, rilevato a sua volta da 
Singleton, tra la discesa di Cristo agli Inferi e la “discesa” di Dante pellegrino, 
puntualizzata nell’evento del passaggio dell’Acheronte. Cervigni svolge il rapporto 
tra i suddetti eventi soffermandosi sui tre giorni successivi alla morte di Cristo. Un 
interessante parallelo viene stabilito tra il silenzio della Bibbia relativo alla 
“condizione di Cristo” dal momento della morte alla resurrezione, e il “venir meno” di 
Dante al passaggio dell’Acheronte, che é poi riflesso nel silenzio poetico dantesco 
riguardo a quel passaggio. La novita dello studio di Cervigni si manifesta nel 
ricollegare il motivo fondamentale del “silenzio poetico dantesco” al contesto 
biblico e teologico. II silenzio biblico relativo a quel lasso di tempo, che in liturgia é 
noto come triduo sacro, & sfondo al silenzio poetico dantesco relativo al passaggio 
del primo fiume infernale. In sostanza il silenzio narrativo si colora di tonalita 
metafisiche e diventa adeguata introduzione ad una dimensione nuova, che sara quella 
del viaggio dantesco. 

Nell’articolo di Diskin Clay, “Dante’s Broken Faith: the Sin of the Second 
Circle” (91-108), lo studioso pur riconoscendo la legittimita della distinzione fra 
pellegrino e poeta nella Divina commedia, é incline a vedere una sostanziale identita 
tra “the poet of the poem” and “the poet in the poem.” Di conseguenza egli vede lo 
stile dantesco modellarsi nella forma della confessione. Lo studioso sottolinea la 
caratteristica di adulteri propria dei lussuriosi elencati da Virgilio nel secondo cerchio 
e riconosce una fondamentale affinita tra questi e Dante, lui stesso colpevole di amore 
adultero, secondo Clay, il quale approfondisce tale affinita tra Dante e Francesca, 
notando che le parole di Francesca sottendono il sonetto dantesco “Amore e ’! cor 


Italian Bookshelf 335 


gentile sono una cosa.” 

Allo studio di Clay, che affonda le sue radici nell’autobiografia dantesca qual é 
filtrata nella sua opera, segue |’ articolo di Elio Costa (“From locus amoris to Infernal 
Pentecost: the Sin of Brunetto Latini,” 109-32), la cui istanza originaria concerne 
V’influenza di Brunetto come “maestro” su Dante “allievo”. Motivo anche questo 
autobiografico alle origini ma di ben diverso impatto ai fini di una comprensione del 
testo dantesco. Una volta riconosciuta la funzione culturale di Brunetto nella Firenze 
del suo tempo, questo studioso rileva un alone di ironia attormno alla figura del maestro 
di Dante nel contesto infernale, dato il rifiuto di scegliere lui come guida e la natura 
stessa del suo peccato. Costa ritorna al Tesoretto per rilevare l’uso dantesco 
d’immagini tratte da quell’opera e ironicamente curvate ad altri significati: l’uso di 
immagini letterarie tratte da Brunetto e il ritorno al passato storico e letterario del 
maestro avrebbero la funzione di ripensamento ed esorcizzazione d’un passato che 
non fa pit parte dell’itinerario spirituale e culturale dantesco. Una fondamentale cecita 
ed incomprensione dei nuovi valori spirituali e culturali del discepolo connoterebbero 
l’intero episodio. I] saggio di Costa, dunque, mette in evidenza ]’orientamento tutto 
terreno dell’esperienza culturale di Brunetto, focalizzata nell’ideale d’una civitas 
terrena priva di connotazioni agostiniane negative. L’itinerario di Brunetto si delinea 
cosi in decisa opposizione a quello dantesco, e spiega conseguentemente la 
fondamentale cecita del maestro nei confronti del nuovo itinerario del discepolo 
(come del resto offre i parametri naturalistici e umanistici per una visione dell’amore 
fissata nel peccato di sodomia). 

Nel saggio successivo, l’attenzione di C. Kleinhenz (“Deceivers Deceived: 
Devilish Doubletalk in Jnferno 21-22,” 133-56), si concentra su problemi di natura 
stilistica, sulla diversita ed intreccio di diversi registri stilistici e lessicali nello 
svolgersi dell’episodio dei diavoli della bolgia dei barattieri, episodio incentrato 
sulla ricerca da parte dei poeti di un ponte che permetta il passaggio alla sesta bolgia. 
Il saggio invita il lettore ad un ritorno al testo al di la dei vari commentari. E il testo 
rivela che nell’episodio di Malacoda “language, too, can be used in an ironic or 
deceitful fashion, that it can be used and misused, that it can both reveal and conceal” 
(140). Kleinhenz in particolare sprona i lettori a considerare il richiamo dantesco ad 
un altro testo, e cioé ad Esopo, rendendoli cosi consapevoli di problemi interpretativi 
pit’ generali che di solito sfuggono ad una prima lettura. E quindi un saggio 
complesso e stimolante, fondato su un approccio particolarmente focalizzato 
sull’intertestualita della Commedia. Sarebbe interessante, tuttavia, considerare i canti 
dei barattieri anche alla luce di un motivo autobiografico, 1’accusa di baratteria rivolta 
allo stesso Dante e addotta come uno dei motivi della condanna all’esilio. Come 
osserva Alison Morgan nel recente volume Dante and the Medieval Other World 
(Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1990), @ difficile pensare che Dante sia neutrale quando 
tratta della colpa di cui lui stesso era stato ingiustamente accusato; riferendosi agli 
inganni dei diavoli Morgan nota: “his choice of this most native topos when treating 
the sin of which he sought to exonerate himself, using it to expose and ridicule the 
sin and those guilty of it, must be deliberate” (21). 

L’articolo di M. Sowell persegue il fine di provare l’importanza, nella Commedia 
dantesca, di Ovidio come autore e delle Metamorfosi come sottotesto non meno 
importante dell’Eneide. Il saggio prende le mosse da Inferno 25:45 (“Dante’s Nose 
and Publius Ovidius Naso: a Gloss on Inferno 25.45,” 157-71), che descrive il gesto 


336 Italian Bookshelf 


fisico di invito al silenzio rivolto da Dante a Virgilio in questo passo. Sowell 
abilmente mostra come il punto focale dell’attenzione del lettore sia orientato da 
questo gesto verso il sottotesto ovidiano, e vede nello stesso verso 45 un gioco di 
parole che trasforma il gesto fisico d’invito al silenzio, in un riferimento testuale al 
cognome di Ovidio (Publius Ovidius Naso). L’importanza del sottotesto ovidiano in 
questi canti non é stata ignorata dagli interpreti e commentatori danteschi, ma Sowell 
ritiene che il gioco di parole del verso 45 non sia stato osservato dai critici proprio 
perché cosi ovvio e significante gia al livello letterale del testo. L’argomento di 
quest’articolo é svolto compiutamente, ma l’occasione dello stesso ne fa materiale 
per una nota piuttosto che per un articolo. 

Lo studio di M. Frankel (“Juno among the Counterfeiters: Tragedy vs. Comedy in 
Inferno 30,” 173-97), concerne lo stile della Commedia. Prendendo le mosse dal 
parallelo iniziale tra le anime di Gianni Schicchi e Mirra da un lato e gli illustri 
episodi di classica follia di Atamante e Ecuba dall’altro, Frankel rileva la scarsa 
rispondenza e |a dissonanza, gia osservata da altri studiosi, fra le figure di Atamante e 
di Ecuba e le anime dei due falsari danteschi. Cid che é chiaro in questo canto, secondo 
la Frankel, é la mescolanza di mezzi espressivi dissonanti e “a lack of connection 
between the mythological exempla and the infernal reality” (175). Messo in evidenza 
che |’irata vendetta di Giunone si trova alle radici dei due esempi classici ed é vista in 
contrapposizione alla vera giustizia di Dio, la domanda che si pone la Frankel @ quale 
sia la finalita del paragone. Il contrasto in tonalita caratteristico del canto é 
indubbiamente evidente. L’ira di Giunone che domina lo stile tragico del poema 
virgiliano & alle scaturigini della bassa commedia dantesca. La contaminazione di 
stile tragico e stile comico caratterizza i due termini del paragone iniziale, mentre il 
personaggio centrale del canto, Mastro Adamo, pur essendo una figura grottesca, 
viene introdotto attraverso un linguaggio solenne, cosi come é d’altronde elevato 
anche il tono del suo discorso. L’altro personaggio che rappresenta nel canto il 
mondo classico, il greco Sinone, offre un esempio del pit basso stile comico, in 
indubbio contrasto con |’abilita retorica dispiegata dallo stesso nel condurre in porto 
l’inganno del cavallo. Nonostante che i rimproveri di Virgilio e la conclusione del 
canto abbiano indotto diversi studiosi e scorgere in esso una condanna dello stile 
comico realistico, la Frankel ritiene che il messaggio sia pit’ complesso e che sia 
rivolto piuttosto ad asserire la legittimita della poesia comico-realistica motivata da 
un’estetica basantesi su una mescolanza di generi, qual é esemplificata dalla stessa 
Commedia. Mentre in superficie il pellegrino Dante sembra trar frutto dai rimproveri 
del maestro, nel descrivere il proprio atteggiamento di vergogna il poeta, nota la 
Frankel, si serve degli espedienti retorici patrimonio della poesia comico-realistica, 
come quelle annominationes, che avevano caratterizzato ]’alterco tra Sinone e Mastro 
Adamo e che si ripetono nella parte conclusiva del canto (vv. 136-41). 

L’attenzione allo stile della Commedia sembra accentuarsi negli studi attuali con 
particolare riferimento all’/nferno e a Malebolge. La finalita dello studio di Domenico 
Pietropaolo (“Dante’s Paradigms of Humility and the Structure of Reading,” 199-11) & 
invece di natura teoretica: ““esaminare il modo in cui l’esperienza del pellegrino é 
descritta dal poeta e delineare le implicazioni che tale testo ha per una fenomenologia 
del leggere” (199). Una volta chiarito che l’atto del leggere é da intendersi in senso 
lato, come riferentesi sia ad un discorso verbale che ad un discorso non verbale, viene 
stabilita dall’autore un’analogia tra il pellegrino che “legge” i bassorilievi marmorei 


Italian Bookshelf 337 


dalla prima cornice purgatoriale e il lettore del testo dantesco. E attraverso 1’ analisi di 
questo canto decimo del Purgatorio che Pietropaolo, usando un approccio da lui 
definito fenomenologico, mette in evidenza le analogie tra il rapporto del pellegrino 
Dante col suo testo marmoreo e quello del lettore della Commedia, che ha a fare solo 
col testo scritto. Questo studioso focalizza l’attenzione sull’importanza, ben diversa 
da quella attuale, che il testo scritto aveva all’epoca dantesca, e si serve della 
distinzione, nell’esperienza del leggere, tra actus exercitus indirizzato alla percezione 
di una realta esterna (testo scritto), e actus signatus, che implica |’inizio di un 
processo riflessivo rivolto all’atto stesso del leggere. 

Nello studio di Z. Baranski (“Dante’s Three Reflective Dreams,” 213-36) ci si 
propone di dimostrare che i contatti intertestuali dei tre sogni purgatoriali danteschi 
non hanno una funzionalita puramente strutturale, ma che la presenza di elementi 
retrospettivi e la tensione dialettica stabilita da Dante tra 1’elemento profetico e le 
altre funzioni dei sogni li ricollegano alle concezioni oniriche medievali a alle 
direttive generali del suo poema. Nella sua interpretazione dei sogni purgatoriali 
Baranski si reinserisce in quella direttiva incline ad enfatizzare l’aspetto riflessivo 
piuttosto che quello profetico dell’attivita onirica. Riferendosi al sogno dell’aquila 
scrive: “Dante, by repeating and then synthesizing elements which he had previously 
presented as separate, not only offers a narratively plausible source for his 
protagonist’s terror, but, more importantly, he is able to offer an insight into the 
pilgrim’s limitations and condition at the very moment when the dream is recounted 
in the poem. The dream content, on the other hand, can only offer such a perspective 
when it is combined with later events in the story . . .” (219). Lo studioso vede i 
sogni purgatoriali come mental maps (220), “a view which is in keeping with Dante’s 
ideas on dreaming as an intellectual activity” (220). Questo é un saggio interessante e 
fecondo di spunti, come per esempio il rapporto tra sonno o sognare e attivita 
intellettuale nella creazione artistica dantesca. Le tre analisi dei sogni purgatoriali 
enfatizzano la struttura intertestuale dei sogni, quasi ricapitolazioni di passi 
precedenti alla luce di una potenziata riflessivita, mentre viene negata |’intertestualita 
dei due sogni della Vita nuova (vedi 231 nota 20). Sono propensa ad accettare la 
definizione dei sogni purgatoriali come mental maps, punto di vista che mi sembra si 
accordi con la mia accezione delle visioni-sogni della Vita nuova (cap. III e XII), 
come “centri irradianti della superiore consapevolezza dell’autore nella 
ristrutturazione, nel contesto di un’opera, del materiale poetico ad essa relativo,” e 
come “prospettive su un itinerario,” citazioni queste dal mio studio monografico, che 
sembrano assai vicine all’idea di Barariski relativa ai sogni purgatoriali (Jtinerario di 
Amore: dialettica di Amore e Morte nella Vita nuova, Chapel Hill: U of North 
Carolina P, 1973; 111). 

G. Carugati (“Dante ‘Mistico’?” 237-50) prende le mosse da un’accezione 
generica di fenomeno mistico, qual é quella offerta dal Dictionnaire de spiritualité 
ascétique et mystique (Paris: G. Beauchesne, 1977). Dopo aver sottolineato i legami 
esistenti nel Medioevo tra mistica e scrittura, 1a Carugati passa a rilevare il carattere 
scritturale dell’esperienza mistica e l’incontro sul terreno poetico di Dante scrittore e 
Dante mistico. I] termine e concetto paolino di parrhesia (Ef. 3.12) @ ripreso da questa 
studiosa in nome di una liberta di parola non specificamente mistica, ma “effetto della 
partecipazione alla grazia dell’incarnazione, per cui non sara semplicemente 
blasfemo dare al proprio poema la qualifica di “‘sacrato” (241). La Carugati si rifa agli 


338 Italian Bookshelf 


studi di Jacomuzzi sull’ineffabile, ma mentre Jacomuzzi enfatizza la curvatura poetica 
del presunto misticismo dantesco, la Carugati é incline a demitizzare l’esperienza 
mistica, a risolverla (o a destrutturarla) in un impasse retorico in cui il testo e i suoi 
significati si dissolverebbero in questa “lamina che vibra a contatto dello zero, 
dell’innominabile. . . . questa superficiale scrittura tremante, che si attraversa per 
risolversi nel desolato giubilo del silenzio” (242). L’identita di lega della falsita 
dell’espressione mistica e della fittivita dell’espressione poetica, é rilevata da questa 
studiosa, che pero nota una differenza nell’ autorita scritturale, che precede e fonda in 
certo senso la possibilita di un’esperienza mistico-religiosa. Mentre Jacomuzzi (vedi 
“Tl ‘topos’ dell’ineffabile nel Paradiso dantesco” in Da Dante al Novecento, Milano: 
Mursia, 1970; 29-59) vede il nerbo e la struttura del poema nel curvarsi poetico 
dell’ineffabile dantesco, la Carugati vi vede invece un moto inverso, che é come uno 
sfaldarsi del poetico nel mistico e viceversa, quasi si trattasse non di “rievocazione di 
un’esperienza ineffabile” ma di “esperienza . . . dell’impossibilita della visione, della 
sconfitta del linguaggio” (245). 

La tematica soteriologica della Salus, vista questa volta non pit nella sola 
prospettiva mondana ma in quella eterna, forma il tessuto della lectura del canto 
ventesimo del Paradiso nell’articolo di M. Picone. I due nodi che lo studioso si 
propone di sciogliere nell’articolarsi della lettura (“continuita, discontinuita fra 
mondo pagano e mondo cristiano”; “problematica della salvazione dei pagani 
virtuosi”), si suturano nel corso della trattazione in una prospettiva che da individuale 
diventa universale, mentre il messaggio del poeta s’incentra sulla funzione essenziale 
dell’azione gratificante di Dio, che concede ad un Traiano e ad un Rifeo di elevarsi alle 
glorie celesti, e nella quale trova il suo parallelo il privilegio straordinario concesso 
da Dio all’actor della Commedia. La salvezza (rispettivamente di Rifeo e di Traiano) 
nella individualissima scelta dantesca diventa segno di un’interpretazione nuova del 
rapporto classicita-paganesimo, rapporto di cui se @ riconosciuta la frattura 
intrinseca, é allo stesso tempo offerta un’interpretazione nuova rispetto al mondo dei 
valori classici virgiliani. 

Chiude la raccolta di questo volume di Quaderni d’ italianistica l’articolo di R. 
Scrivano (“Paradiso 28,” 269-85), nel quale lo studioso si propone di interpretare al 
di fuori di schemi prettamente dottrinari questo canto ventottesimo. Come gia 
suggerito da Padoan, la formula di romanzo teologico si rivela inadeguata secondo 
Scrivano, che inclina a vedere il viaggio dantesco nella prospettiva del 
bonaventuriano itinerarium mentis in Deum, inteso come atto di conoscenza 
piuttosto che come operazione astratta dell’intelletto. Prendendo le mosse da un 
passo specifico dell’/tinerarium (7, 1) “che é il punto di approdo dell’opera”, lo 
studioso enfatizza la prassi bonaventuriana dell’ascesi “che realizza la percezione 
mistica di Dio attraverso gli aspetti dell’universo” (272). L’accento é@ sull’aspetto 
conoscitivo e mistico di quest’esperienza, non sull’aspetto speculativo. Una 
strutturazione del canto in due parti é proponibile secondo questo studioso, che vede 
nella prima parte del canto il compimento della dottrina esposta nel precedente, e 
nella seconda |’anticipo dell’angelogia del seguente (282). 

I due studi iniziali della raccolta di A. Iannucci sono gli unici di carattere 
panoramico: il primo riguarda approcci allo studio e all’apprezzamento di Dante 
influenzati dalle novita della tecnologia odierna; il secondo auspica una liberazione 
dall’influenza singletoniana e un orientamento pit formalistico nella critica dantesca. 


Italian Bookshelf 339 


Si potrebbe dire che gli auspici della Barolini trovino riscontro nella varieta degli 
approcci degli studi danteschi di questo volume di Quaderni d’italianistica, che é 
indubbiamente un buon contributo agli studi danteschi attuali. La scelta degli articoli 
risponde al criterio editoriale di non favorire nessun approccio particolare e alla 
finalita di offrire una molteplicita di prospettive, ma sarebbe stata auspicabile una 
maggiore strutturazione, magan anche solo esterna e basantesi su una considerazione 
equamente distribuita tra le diverse cantiche e le altre opere di Dante. 


Margherita De Bonfils Templer 


Aldo Vallone. Strutture e modulazioni nella Divina Commedia. 
Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 225. 


Aldo Vallone raccoglie in questo volume dodici “letture” (quattro per ogni cantica) 
composte in un arco d’anni dal 1955 in poi, unificate da un comune obiettivo critico: 
“proporre il tema dell’unita e varieta (e di questa in quella) dei canti della Commedia” 
al loro interno e in relazione tra di loro, in salutare reazione alla lettura spezzettata del 
poema. 

Nella “‘lettura” dedicata a Jnf. 12 l’elemento unificante del canto é visto nella 
“terrestrita muraria e naturale delle cose che vi si rappresentano” (10). All’interno del 
“loco alpestro” il Minotauro, col suo carattere “aspro e contorto” (16) rispecchia la 
natura che lo circonda. Il richiamo al mito “non crea stridore e contrasto” ma é usato 
per dare 1’idea “con la sua origine che si perde nell’oscurita della storia . . . d’un tempo 
ch’é perennemente presente . . . di un male ch’é eterno e incancellabile” (21). Entrano 
poi in scena personaggi storici, di varie epoche e varie terre, ma il canto non si 
spezzetta, anzi “I tre cicli si saldano e si compenetrano in un unico blocco” (24). Tutti 
i personaggi sono unificati aalla loro ferocia selvaggia, tristemente comune in ogni 
tempo e luogo. Le rime “chiocce” e lo stile spezzato contribuiscono molto 
nell’esprimere l’atmosfera cupa del canto. 

Nel capitolo dedicato a Jnf. 25 @ interessante |’obiezione posta al De Sanctis. 
Mentre questi riteneva che la pena dei ladri consistesse nella loro degradazione a 
bestie, Vallone la vede piuttosto nel loro “non essere né l’uno né I’altro” (30): un non 
essere piuttosto che un essere diminuito, e quindi molto pit disumanizzante. I] 
“gioco” della trasformazione, inoltre, non é da Dante offerto come “pezzo di bravura 
fredda e distaccata” ma con animo sofferto e spezzato, come immagine tragicamente 
eloquente di come la “gente nova”, assetata solo di ricchezza, ha pervertito le antiche 
virtu di Firenze (44). 

Il commento al canto di Ulisse (Jnf. 26) rivela la cautela critica del Vallone, che 
consiglia di non dare all’‘orazione” “significati fuori contesto, come oggi 
esasperatamente ha cercato di fare tanta parte della critica” (59). L’invenzione del 
viaggio di Ulisse ha molti addentellati con la realta storica del tempo di Dante in 
quanto la ricerca della via d’oriente era gia stata tentata da molti. A riguardo del monte 
del Purgatorio, alcuni portolani del tempo descrivono il punto di “‘cognoscenza” della 
Corsica come una montagna “alta e ritonda, aspra da alto” e “en couleur brun sepia” 
(57). Tipico dell’invenzione di Dante é il dipendere sempre da qualche dato di realta a 


340 Italian Bookshelf 


lui accessibile, non dal fantastico assoluto. 

Della figura di Lucifero (/nf. 34) Vallone nota “la superbia vinta, la massa inerte 
e idiota, la monumentalita che non é animata da spirito alcuno” (70). Dalla cintola in 
su pare conservare tratti “umani” ma “é, in realta, una somma di elementi bestiali”. 
Dalla cintola in git compaiono decisamente i dati animaleschi. Per questo si parla di 
“uumanizzazione bestiale di Lucifero” (69), una mole immensa senza specie definita. 

Nel commento a Purg. 4 sono bonariamente accusati di tardoromanticismo i 
critici che trovano “poesia” solo nell’episodio di Belacqua, perché “il canto non solo 
. . . partecipa dinamicamente dell’unita complessiva . . . ma presenta anche una sua 
unita interna” (82). Purg. 16 é il “centro strutturale della Commedia e anche il centro 
culturale del pensiero che la sorregge” (97). “Centrali sono i problemi che . . . si 
discutono: liberta contro fatalismo, distinzione di poteri contro confusione . . . in 
una unita ideologica, politica, morale e sociale” (98). Su Purg. 26 nota che se 
Guinizelli, colui che cantava la purezza dell’amore, si @ imbrattato di colpa 
direttamente contraria a quella, é lecito pensare a una seria riserva da parte di Dante su 
quel tipo di poetare (131). Purg. 29 “fa parte di quel gruppo di canti che . . . sono il 
nodo dell’intero poema”. Vallone passa quindi a elencare numerosi esempi di 
processioni medievali per provare come Dante “non ha inventato nulla” ma tutto, al 
tempo stesso, ha sublimamente trasformato in “mistero liturgico”, né si registra in 
tutta la letteratura una processione come questa (150). 

Par. 9 ha un “sottofondo chiaramente polemico”. C’é un eco della contemporanea 
Epistola 11. Si condanna “]’empieta e il dispregio di chi deve tutelare l’arca di Cristo” 
(153). Il verso “tosto libere fien dell’adultero", a somiglianza della profezia del 
Veltro e del DXV, va considerata “profezia evangelica’”’, cioé non storica, né “‘legata a 
figure e ad avvenimenti concreti” (169). Par. 11 si lega anch’esso alla polemica 
“interna al movimenti riformatori” a proposito di ricchezza e poverta (171). Ma 
Vallone preferisce evitare questo tipo di problematica e passa a considerarlo da un 
punto di vista strutturale, con fini osservazioni. Su Par. 25 Vallone fa notare come 
Dante, esaurita la materia al verso 99, deve fare ricorso alle sue infinite risorse per 
inventare “diversi espedienti” per variare il tema dello splendore dell’apostolo (206). 
In Par. 30 si riscontra il momento “politico” pit alto di tutta la cantica. 
“L’assegnazione a Dante . . . di uno scanno tra i pochi che restano ancora da 
assegnare” denota “un certo pessimismo storico” ma al tempo stesso la certezza del 
ristabilirsi della giustizia, con la condanna “di quel d’Alagna” (222-23). 

Vallone offre in quest’opera, solida e matura, un saggio del suo alto magistero di 
dantista, a sostegno del suo leit-motiv critico: l’unita etica ed estetica della 
Commedia in decisa opposizione a quanti vorrebbero antologizzarla, separando 
l’esigenza conoscitiva dalle “belle immagini”. Scegliendo opportunamente canti 
“poetici” e canti “dottrinali", Vallone mostra come tutti siano strettamente correlati 
tra di loro in quanto le “immagini” in Dante hanno una funzione conoscitiva e i dubbi 
speculativi sempre rivelano, drammaticamente, il travaglio della sua mente. La 
struttura della Commedia risulta pertanto, alla luce di queste analisi, armonica e 
saldamente integrata, e le apparenti dicotomie sono in realta variazioni, modulazioni 
di un unico tema. 

Raggruppando saggi composti lungo l’arco di trent’anni, Vallone dimostra 
implicitamente la continuita della propria impostazione critica, fedele a un assunto 
unitario. Assunto, ovviamente, basato fermamente sul testo dantesco (secondo 


Italian Bookshelf 341 


l’impostazione data da Barbi, Nardi e Petrocchi), sulla ricerca storica e tradizione 
critica lungo i secoli, di cui, come ben si sa, Vallone é specialista. L’ammirazione per 
Dante non gli impedisce comunque di sorprenderlo quando “‘sonnecchia’”’ per segnalare 
puntualmente qualche scadimento di tono nella poesia. Vallone, in questo volume, 
dimostra di possedere ad abundantiam fine sensibilita estetica e solida dottrina, 
strumenti eccellenti per chi vuole “conversare” con chi @ Maestro nell’una e 
nell’ altra. 


Adriano Comollo, Brigham Young University 


Dante Alighieri. La divina commedia. Scelta e commento a cura di 
Pietro Cataldi e Romano Luperini. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1989. Pp. 
XXXXVIII_ + 538 + 15 illustrazioni. 


Fra le varie edizioni scolastiche della Divina commedia mancava fino ad oggi 
un’antologia idonea alle particolari necessita dello studente straniero, il qual, pur 
non possedendo piena padronanza della lingua, si accosta per la prima volta alla 
lettura del poema dantesco nell’originale. 

Lo scrivente, che di tanto in tanto tiene delle lezioni su Dante, ricorre di solito al 
volume Approaches to Teaching Dante's Divine Comedy (a c. di Carole Slade e 
Giovanni Cecchetti, New York, MLA, 1982) per soddisfare le esigenze di natura 
pedagogica. I saggi raccolti in tale volume sono fonti di ispirazione e di pratici 
consigli. Tuttavia @ sempre difficile scegliere un libro di testo adatto ai propri allievi. 
La scelta si presenta particolarmente ardua rispetto alle note e al commento testuale: 
per esempio, l’edizione curata dal Sapegno (ricca di note, di parafrasi dei periodi pit 
difficili e di riferimenti critici) @ indirizzata agli studenti che hanno completa 
padronanza della lingua e dispongono anche di un discreto bagaglio di nozioni 
culturali; nell’edizione del Singleton le note e le spiegazioni sono in inglese, quindi 
lo studente non viene messo in contatto con la lingua moderna; inoltre, quella del 
Sinclair (con traduzione a fronte e commento in inglese) comporta anche il rischio di 
indurre lo studente a leggere l’originale con meno impegno. 

La presente antologia in un solo volume, nata non dall’occasione o 
dall’improvvisazione, ma dall’esperienza dell’insegnamento della Commedia da parte 
del Cataldi e del Luperini presso la Scuola di Lingua e Cultura Italiana per Stranieri di 
Siena, consiste dei canti pil’ significativi che (come si legge nella premessa) 
“mettono in risalto l’unita e la complessita del poema”. La scelta comprende quaranta 
canti presentati in genere per intero (Inferno I-III, V-VI, X, XIII, XV, XXII, XXVI, 
XXX, XXXII-XXXIII; Purgatorio I- Il, V-VI, XI, XXII-XXIV, XX VII-XXXI, XXXII; 
Paradiso I- IV, VI, XI, XV, XVII, XXIV-XXV, XXXI, XXX). Oltre a cid, l’antologia 
acquista maggiore organicita mediante il riassunto puntuale dei canti non inclusi. La 
scelta dei canti, bisogna aggiungere, é stata fatta non in base a criteri arbitrari o di 
gusto, bensi “con |’intenzione di valorizzare i momenti forti della struttura .. . il 
ritmo romanzesco della narrazione . . . [e] di offrire esempi dei vari registri stilistici 
impiegati da Dante” (Vv). 

Il testo riproduce quello fissato da Giorgio Petrocchi, ed il commento che segue é 


342 Italian Bookshelf 


specificamente indirizzato allo studente straniero. Non a caso, per facilitare la lettura 
della Commedia, nelle introduzioni e nel commento i curatori sono ricorsi ad 
accorgimenti che si rivelano particolarmente efficaci: la scrittura mira alla 
semplicita, e la spiegazione del poema séguita parola per parola in modo da 
chiarificare a sufficienza il significato di tutti i costrutti. 

Insieme con i densi capitoli introduttivi (il capitolo I, la premessa e il commento 
all’Inferno si devono al Luperini; al Cataldi 1 capitoli I-IV, le premesse e il 
commento al Purgatorio e al Paradiso), nell’antologia c’é anche il vantaggio di 
trovare pagine di letture critiche (De Sanctis, “Francesca da Rimini”; Singleton, 
“L’apparizione di Beatrice”; Auerbach, “Il sistema storico-politico della Commedia”), 
nonché accurate schede storico-culturali (“Dante e il Vecchio Testamento”’; “Dante e 
Virgilio”; “Dante e Lucano”; “Dante e Ovidio”; “Dante e San Tommaso”; “Dante e il 
Nuovo Testamento”). 

Fra i numerosi pregi di questa Antologia é@ d’obbligo menzionare il prezioso 
glossario dantesco a pié del commento (che mette in evidenza la differenza di 
significato fra italiano antico e italiano moderno) e quello storico-letterario, metrico 
e retorico (526-31), ambedue a cura di Floriana d’Amely. U1 docente trovera utile e 
gradito anche il lavoro di Sandra Radicchi dedicato a materiale didattico, con numerosi 
esercizi linguistici, temi da svolgere, e suggerimenti bibliografici (513-25). Inoltre, 
grazie alla collaborazione di Bente Klange Addabbo, il libro é ricco di 15 illustrazioni 
a colori che riproducono “alcune delle miniature pit significative dal punto di vista 
artistico ed iconografico che completano 1 numerosi manoscritti della Commedia” 
apparsi nei secoli XIV e XV (v. ill. n. 15). Infine, oltre alla tavola delle 
abbreviazioni, all’indice alfabetico del glossario e a quello generale, i curatori hanno 
incluso un’appendice contenente esempi di traduzioni (in francese, spagnolo, inglese 
e tedesco) di alcuni brani della Commedia, “per illustrare la fortuna di Dante all’estero, 
indicare i problemi che comporta la versione del poema in altra lingua e permettere 
poi un pill consapevole ritorno all’originale” (VI). 

Realizzata con la sovvenzione del Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione, 
l’Antologia @ un’opera pionieristica di grande utilita in quanto, nell’adempire la sua 
meritoria funzione, risponde pienamente alle sentite esigenze dello studente straniero 
e, secondo chi scrive, soddisfa anche varie necessita del docente, specie nel caso di un 
corso in cui la lettura integrale della Commedia é@ improponibile. 


Salvatore Cappelletti, Providence College 


Adriano Comollo. JI dissenso religioso in Dante. Firenze: Olschki, 
1990. Pp. 153. 
Contro “storicismo” e “strutturalismo”, assai succintamente definiti nella breve 
introduzione, il lavoro di Comollo si dice ispirato ai “canoni classici . . . che vedono 
nella ricerca e messa in evidenza dei dati contenutistici una fase essenziale e 
insostituibile del lavoro critico” (10). Tra questi “dati contenutistici” in Dante, quello 
del “dissenso religioso” sarebbe centrale, in quanto da esso “tutti gli altri ricevono la 
ragion d'essere” (10). 


Italian Bookshelf 343 


Sulla base di queste premesse, |’autore passa a schizzare, nel primo capitolo, un 
“profilo dell’eresia ai tempi di Dante, 1250-1350”, che @ poi uno sbrigativo 
sommario dei “principali movimenti ereticali” dell’Europa medievale. Nessuna 
relazione viene abbozzata tra le diverse sette, o le diverse correnti di pensiero, e 
Dante; nessun accenno a problemi di fondo, come per esempio quello della relazione 
tra ideologia religiosa e scrittura. 

Il secondo capitolo, “Influenze dirette: amici, maestri, educatori’, in sette pagine 
tratta dei rapporti di Dante con Brunetto Latini, con Guido Cavalcanti e con le scuole 
religiose di S. Croce e di S. Maria Novella, senza alcun tentativo di far parlare i testi 
stessi di Dante. 

Le undici pagine del terzo capitolo sono poi dedicate ai “‘sette secoli” in cui 
“l’autorita religiosa e la critica letteraria” possono aver “percepito l’esistenza di un 
dissenso in Dante” (40). Curioso e divertente é l’elenco dei passi della Commedia che 
secondo |’Index auctorum et librorum prohibitorum, fino al 1883, avrebbero dovuto 
essere espunti da ogni testo pubblicato. 

“Appurata la presenza di [in?: i refusi sono numerosissimi, e di rilievo] Dante di 
un notevole grado di dissenso in materia di religione, come puntualmente deducibile 
dalle sanzioni ‘disciplinari’ adottate nei suoi confronti dalle autorita competenti” 
(53), l’autore passa, nel quarto capitolo, ad analizzare “il ‘messaggio’ religioso- 
profetico di Dante nell’interpretazione della critica lungo i secoli”. Comollo trascorre 
a volo d’uccello sui primi commentatori e sulla critica successiva che privilegia gli 
aspetti retorici, per soffermarsi brevissimamente su Foscolo, Manselli, Nardi e infine 
su Singleton (e Mineo). 

Il capitolo seguente é dedicato a “Il topos della corruzione della Chiesa nella 
Commedia e negli altri autori cattolici del tempo”. L’autore elenca le note invettive, 
“evitando 1 luoghi dove l’interpretazione @ controversa” (80), mentre gli autori 
cattolici del tempo, in stenografico assetto, sono S. Bernardo, S. Pier Damiani, e, per 
motivi non del tutto chiari, Gerhoh di Reichersberg. 

Il sesto e ultimo capitolo, “La storia della Chiesa secondo Dante”, @ poi anche il 
solo in cui sia sviluppata la tesi dell’autore, che é la seguente: a differenza di S. 
Tommaso, ma come gli Spirituali (e come certe chiese americane contemporanee), 
Dante crede che la fine del mondo sia vicina. A questa conclusione |’autore aggancia il 
corollario che “il fatto che la fine, prospettata da Dante come vicina, non si sia poi 
verificata, pone seri dubbi sulla realta della visione” (123). Dunque Dante non é né 
ortodosso, ma non é neanche profeta. 


Giuliana Carugati, St. John’s University, New York 


Pasquale Sabbatino. L’Eden della nuova poesia. Saggi sulla Divina 
commedia. Firenze: Olschki, 1991. Pp. 230 


Il libro si divide in cinque capitoli, ognuno dedicato a un canto della Commedia, con 
l’eccezione del secondo, riguardante gli episodi del paradiso terrestre, che spazia 
quindi lungo sei canti. Il primo capitolo si concentra sull’atteggiamento di Dante 
verso Paolo e Francesca. La “pieta” di Dante non va intesa come partecipazione alla 


344 Italian Bookshelf 


pena degli amanti ma piuttosto come la sua “presa di coscienza del suo personale stato 
di peccatore, compunzione e afflizione, scelta, infine, di superamento del male” (42). 
Nell’episodio di Francesca, Dante stigmatizza tanto il peccato per passione che “la 
letteratura cortese e stilnovistica, le quali, pur ispirate da una diversa concezione 
dell’amore, possono produrre uno stesso risultato” (42). A partire da questa pieta- 
pentimento “ha inizio il percorso dantesco verso la nuova poesia, volta a fondare una 
riforma dell’amore . . . e la vocazione poetica di Dante coincidera sempre pit con la 
vocazione profetica” (43). 

Il secondo capitolo, riguardante Purg. 28-33, é il pit importante nell’economia 
dell’opera e giustamente offre il titolo a tutto il volume. In esso Sabbatino sviluppa il 
tema accennato alla fine del primo capitolo e cioé in che cosa consista la “nuova” 
poesia di Dante. Prima di introdurci nel “sancta sanctorum” del suo lavoro critico, 
Sabbatino ci prepara, saggiamente, con un’ampia e ben documentata rassegna 
storico-esegetica sul Purgatorio e il paradiso terrestre, sulle fonti che Dante privilegia 
e su quanto lui stesso inventa. Dopo un’ulteriore tappa didascalica sul topos dell’Eden 
nella letteratura classica e sulla mappa dell’Eden dantesco, si giunge all’incontro tra 
Beatrice e Dante. Come gia nella seconda parte della Vita nuova, Beatrice @ qui 
presentata come figura Christi: “l’incontro . . . viene rappresentato figurativamente 
sul calco biblico dell’incontro di Cristo con la Chiesa” (100-01). Nel primo momento 
della reprimenda, Beatrice ricorda a Dante tutti i suoi tradimenti morali e artistici: 
“Beatrice si trova a svolgere il ruolo di storico della letteratura dantesca individuando 
il centro — la stessa Beatrice — e le forze centripete e centrifughe. . . . Il ritorno a 
Beatrice e la conquista di un centro morale . . . coincidono con una svolta poetica, una 
missione che proprio Beatrice, figura Christi, affida a Dante” (117;121). L’atto pit 
notevole che avviene nel paradiso terrestre @ pertanto “la liturgia per l’investitura del 
Poeta-Profeta” all’interno di un preciso e provvidenziale piano rigenerativo a favore 
dell’umanita intera (6). 

Il terzo capitolo non presenta legami visibili con la tematica dei precedenti e si 
concentra sulla vicenda di Piccarda lungo due direttive, cioé il confronto delle 
leggende intorno al suo rapimento dal convento e la successiva “miracolosa” morte, e 
la casistica teologica (principalmente tomista) in merito ai voti non mantenuti. 

Il capitolo quarto é dedicato a Giustiniano (Par. 6) con particolare attenzione alla 
funzione dell’impero e ai modi espressivi da Dante usati per dare spicco a questo 
imperatore eccezionale. Giustiniano impersona la concezione che Dante ha 
dell’imperatore, quale guida alla felicita terrena “per philosophica documenta”, in 
perfetto accordo con quanto é scritto nella Monarchia (155-56). L’impero romano é 
pertanto voluto da Dio come parte del piano per la salvezza dell’umanita (in 
disaccordo con Agostino) ed é@ indipendente nella sua sfera (154). A Giustiniano, 
personaggio sommo, che racconta la storia dell’impero, argomento solenne, 
conviene solo lo stile alto, quello tragico, a cui Dante poeta giustamente ricorre. 

Ma non solo all’estetica bensi anche all’etica bada Giustiniano. La sua arte del 
raccontare (letteratura) é viva e incisiva solo perché si ispira alla "viva giustizia” e 
riceve nutrimento da una salda teologia della storia, che sola pud dare prospettiva ai 
singoli avvenimenti. E questa “un’occasione per Dante scrittore di sancire 
autorevolmente e incontestabilmente le regole per fare letteratura. . . . Da questo 
punto di vista il narratore Giustiniano offre un exemplum di cid che é letteratura, nella 
quale ‘s’addua’ linea estetica e linea etica, modo di dire e cose da dire” (178;185). 


Italian Bookshelf 345 


L’ultimo capitolo, il quinto, commenta vari episodi e scolii di Par. 23 (con 
accenni a Canti contigui), con enfasi sulla missione profetica di Dante a pro della 
chiesa militante, drammaticamente degenerata. “La delega di S. Pietro a Dante, con 
solenne investitura, é un ambizioso riconoscimento della funzione sociale morale del 
Poeta, quale apostolo di verita” con severo richiamo ai detentori del potere religioso e 
civile. “Il poeta é il profeta dei nuovi tempi e il poema @ sacro, cioé profezia, 
rivelazione. . . . Il ‘sacrato poema’ . . . finalmente mostra la sua identita di exemplum 
della nuova poesia, dominata dalla prospettiva divina . . .” (211; 112). 

Opera di solida critica, questa di Sabbatino, che attinge le proprie suggestioni 
anzitutto dal testo poetico e non da teorie preconcette e continua lo scavo sul fertile 
solco tracciato da eminenti dantisti quali Nardi, Vallone e Petrocchi, che lui stesso 
riconosce suoi maestri (8). L’idea seminale di Dante-profeta, riproposta da Foscolo in 
eta moderna, riceve qui ulteriore conferma e sviluppo, con |’ausilio di fini strumenti 
intertestuali, a contrastare validamente le pretensioni di certa critica che vorrebbe de- 
ideologizzare, “indebolire” Dante. I problemi esaminati sono di fondamentale 
importanza per comprendere le pit’ profonde motivazioni, il nucleo di fondo della 
poesia dantesca. Perché Dante inscena la propria investitura poetica nel giardino 
sempre “nuovo” dell’Eden? Perché la riceve nella stessa ora in cui Adamo fu creato e 
Cristo mori? Perché si verifica intertestualita con il Genesi in questa nuova “genesi”? 
Perché Stazio e Virgilio lo accompagnano in questo passo? Perché a dare 1’investitura 
é Beatrice, figura Christi? Nulla di casuale in Dante, e Sabbatino si pone e risponde a 
questi e altri quesiti con argomenti solidi e convincenti. L’immagine di Dante, 
chiaramente consapevole di iniziare una “nuova” poesia, in armonia con quella 
classica, ma con in pill (molto di pit) il suggello della rivelazione e la ricongiunzione 
con |’interrotta tradizione biblica, viene in questo volume egregiamente lumeggiata. 
L’importanza di tale tema é@ sottolineata da Sabbatino con riferimenti tratti da 
numerosi luoghi della Commedia e delle altre opere di Dante, puntualmente analizzati 
lungo i capitoli. Una venia si pud forse trovare nel capitolo terzo, che non pare 
direttamente collegato alla tematica prescelta. 

In conclusione, Sabbatino dimostra di padroneggiare con abilita ed eleganza gli 
argomenti propostisi. E particolarmente convincente nel dimostrare come la 
consapevolezza di una missione profetica da compiere sia l’ispirazione di base per la 
“nuova” poesia di Dante e la motivazione pit’ forte che lo spinge ad affrontare e 
portare a compimento l’estenuante fatica del “‘sacrato poema”’. 


Adriano Comollo, Brigham Young University 


Marjorie O’Rourke Boyle. Petrarch’s Genius: Pentimento and 
Prophecy. University of California Press, 1991. Pp. 216 


This, to say the least, is a fascinating book, full of original insights into the nature 
of Petrarch’s work and “genius,” insights that may have been touched upon in works 
of earlier scholars, but are elaborated here in a most convincing manner. In many 
ways, its appearance was inevitable since the continuing dichotomy between Petrarch 
the poet and Petrarch the thinker, believer, and “citizen of the world” was untenable. 


346 Italian Bookshelf 


As a professional theologian, the author concentrates on what the book jacket calls 
“Petrarch’s mission to develop a theological poetics.” 

The Introduction questions the manner in which modernist literary criticism has 
dismissed Petrarch’s piety, especially in its interpretation of Petrarch’s Italian poetry 
as irreligious on the basis of the sentiments expressed in the Secretum. For the 
author, “Petrarch’s poetics is not modernist but humanist, an allegory of truth toward 
the purpose of virtue” (3). The arguments of Augustinus in the Secretum against 
Petrarch’s dedication to poetry are those of a devil’s advocate. The historical 
Augustine agreed with Petrarch’s view that poetry does not impede but encourages the 
love of God. The notion that Petrarch’s was a poetics of idolatry is irrational and 
irreligious. A detailed analysis of Petrarch’s use of “idols” concludes that the concept 
did not necessarily contradict Christian guidelines. In his De remediis Reason argues 
that “images should not be enticements to the eyes but monuments to virtue, such as 
the statues erected in honor of Scipio Africanus, the liberator of Italy” (7). Art must 
service virtue. Petrarch’s idolo was thus not an idolatrous parody of religion but a 
“humanist paragon of art.”” As a humanist he too developed a rhetorical theology that 
deserves understanding and appreciation. He never quit writing poetry because he was 
able to summon from various sources a theological alternative. He clearly asserted 
that he practiced ‘fan art that was sacred by a genius divinely endowed.” It is the 
purpose of this book to examine how Petrarch tried to accomplish this. 

In Chapter 1 entitled “Hail, True Apollo!” the author defines a fundamental image 
in Petrarch’s thought: the figure of Apollo. Petrarch’s efforts to glorify Scipio in his 
Africa_represented an attempt “to elicit patriotic spirit by a new humanist 
reconciliation of history, poetry, and philosophy.” In his coronation oration he 
revived the classical equation of poetry with theology, actually exceeding and 
challenging Christian poetics. Poets, he stated, require “a certain inner and divinely 
given energy” which entitles them to be called “sacred in their own right.” For 
Petrarch the poetic laurel indicates “the straight way to Heaven,” even though in Fam. 
IV, 1 he acknowledges that other paths also may lead to salvation. But on the summit 
of Mt. Ventoux Petrarch too examined sanctity through interior vision. This in tum 
enabled him to encounter his “genius,” a concept requiring the examination of a 
number of classical and Christian sources. In expressing great confidence in his 
genius as he pondered his Africa, Petrarch acknowledged ‘ta complex convention” 
contrasting with the asceticism of Augustine and his brother. His poetic genius he 
attributes to heaven, and its bestower he calls Apollo. As “master of the arts and 
bestower of genius,” Apollo had made the laurel his emblem of poetic 
accomplishment and of prophecy. Thus, on the one hand Petrarch transgressed 
classical piety which associated genius with Jupiter; on the other he affronted 
Christian piety when in the invocations of both the Africa and the Rime he identified 
Apollo with Christ. He thus affirmed the continuity of art and religion by conceiving 
of an Apollirie Christ who likewise was the source of all wisdom and light, and who 
for the love of humanity joined himself to Mary just as Apollo desired to unite with 
Daphne. The poetic synthesis of Apollo and Christ represented for Petrarch the need 
to integrate the carnal and the spiritual as well as the identification of the civic with 
the prophetic whereby he sought the restoration of the empire and the return of the 
papacy to Rome. 

Chapter 2, entitled “The Sylvan Citizen,” opens with a discussion of the manner 


Italian Bookshelf 347 


in which Petrarch had adopted the Virgilian concept of vates, which viewed the poet 
as a leader, educator, and prophet It was because of that concept that in Christian 
times Virgil was elevated to the status of the canonical prophets of scripture, and was 
even accorded the honor of being included in the medieval design of the tree of Jesse. 
This concept of a prophetic Virgil informed the frontispiece of Petrarch’s famous 
Ambrosian Virgil. In a fascinating analysis of the frontispiece, the author shows how 
the laurel at which Virgil gazes is a symbol of Christ and his cross, how the other two 
trees reflect the two crosses of the two thieves executed with Christ, and how the 
laurel that wreathes Virgil’s head is a prophecy of the crown of thorns. All of this was 
to become an integral part of Petrarch’s poetics, especially, of course, his Apolline 
pursuit of Laura as unattainable poetic truth. The search for such truth was best carried 
out in a sylvan setting where, like Apollo, the poet could contemplate its beauty 
under a laurel tree which shelters the poet from harm. For Petrarch the laurel was also a 
“holy” tree which, like the tree of life, was an emblem of the fertility of his 
invention. “[Laura] was a symbolic tree of life that engrafted to it the fertile 
Carmenta, who had engendered the first settler of Rome, and the fertile Cybele, who 
had saved the city from foreign conquest. By their inspiration Petrarch hoped to 
populate and protect Rome once again” (63). The chapter also develops several novel 
connections with biblical imagery, such as the similarity between the bonds that 
chained Petrarch to Laura’s hair and the metaphor used in the Song of Solomon. A 
further connection is made with the Africa to show how the poet’s entanglement in 
Laura’s hair symbolized the conception of the epic that would express Petrarch’s natal 
genius and win him the laurel. Identification of the strong ties to Socratic and 
Platonic ideas of madness and prophecy are similarly insightful, as are the 
connections to Christian writers. Ultimately we are shown how Petrarch viewed the 
laurel not only as a symbol of virtue inspired by poetry, but even of prophecy as 
reflected in the tree symbols of Joachim of Fiore and his prophecies of a new 
Babylonian captivity for Rome, which were in turn based on Ezekiel’s experience of 
the Babylonian Captivity of Israel. Petrarch in effect imagined himself to be Ezekiel 
revived and a captive in the new Babylon prophesying the ultimate triumph of the 
new Jerusalem. 

Chapter 3 is entitled “The Babylonian Captive,” and is once again a highly 
original analysis, this time of Petrarch’s view of the Roman church in exile. His 
coronation in 1341 actually was intended to rival that of the pope as Petrarch placed 
his poetic crown on the altar of the See of Peter, which had been abandoned by the 
pope who dwelled in a “Babylonian captivity” in Avignon. This “captivity” (1305- 
78) was the event that had inspired Petrarch with a lifelong vatic drive to restore the 
papacy to Rome for the pacification of Italy. Throughout its earlier period Petrarch, 
in both verse and prose, appealed to the pope in biblical terms, but toward the end he 
appealed in the name of Christ as “the sun of righteousness,” an Apolline Christ who 
“wills . . . to recall his Church . . . to its ancient and proper seat . . .” (77). Like the 
oracles of old, Petrarch spoke the divine will. His sincere patriotism “imagined an 
Italy purged of strife and of vice and reunited under the Roman aegis” (77). His 
confidence in Cola di Rienzo prompted him to hail him as a liberator in the very 
image of Scipio, while his dedication to Rome prompted him to consider it not only a 
secular capital but a sacred site. Similarly, he used the yokes, chains, and nets of love 
binding him to Laura as symbols of the captivity of an entire people, and his exile 


348 Italian Bookshelf 


from her as a conceit for the exile of the papacy from Rome. Even his title, Scattered 
Rhymes, implied a summons to dispersed citizens. All this in turn reflected his vatic 
vocation as he pronounced doom against the new Babylon, the Avignon papacy that 
was obstructing his ideal of an Italy at peace. His prototype for his prophetic protest 
was in the apocalyptic literature of the priest and prophet, Ezekiel, with its metaphor 
of the harlot. He also used the whore of Revelation to excoriate the manner in which 
the papacy was fornicating with foreign alliances and alien religions. He was 
convinced that “only its repentant return to Rome could absolve its sin and restore its 
integrity” (86). Of Petrarch’s prophecies, those found in his poem 323 were the most 
dramatic. The many allegorical images presaging the death of Laura were but a 
remarkable imitation of the oracles of Ezekiel on the Babylonian Captivity, 
symbolizing the destruction of the Roman Church in its repetition of Israel’s 
political exile. The political-religious analysis of the entire canzone is highly 
original and perceptive. 

In Chapter 4, entitled “Wounded Lovers,” the author ties Petrarch’s political and 
religious ideals with his poetic goals. “The ruin of Petrarch’s political ideal was the 
ruin of his poetic inspiration. . . . As with the prophet Ezekiel, his personal tragedy 
was indivisible from the national fate” (113). The allegories of poem 323 symbolized 
the failure of his poetry to incite virtue. For him Laura was “‘all that Art, Wit (genius) 
and Nature and Heaven can do in this life.” At a certain point, however, he had to 
confess that “Neither my wit (genius) nor my tongue can equal the truth,” for no 
human genius could display the honor, piety, and virtue of poetry. (196). His 
situation reflected Apollo’s foiled designs on Daphne. Proclaiming his prophetic 
vocation in poem 206, Petrarch indicated his preference for the Old Testament Rachel 
over Leah, and his desire to seek the beatific vision of God by ascending on the 
chariot of Elijah whom he considered the model of the solitary prophet as well as an 
Apollo figure. He hoped to play the roles not only of these two prophets but of a 
more contemporary one — St. Francis of Assisi, whose birth, like Laura’s, he 
celebrated as the rising of a new sun and whose passion for prophecy, poverty, and 
poetry attracted him immensely. Along with Laura, Francis became an exemplar for 
Petrarch’s poetic inspiration. In his search for the laurel he had entered a wood from 
which he exited limping and lamenting “the wounds I received in that wood thick with 
thorns” [poem 1]. As a result, he felt compelled to tum to the Apolline Christ whose 
“sun” could vanquish his “strange shadow” (130). The imagery of wound and thorn, 
sun and shade, converged in Christ. “Ultimately it was to heal the wounded Italian 
people that Petrarch sustained his own amorous wounds, in poetic imitation of the 
crucified Christ” (131). Even the Africa, which was intended to inspire Italy’s 
repentance through self-knowledge of its past glory, probed a mass of wounds as 
sustained by the Scipios. In each case one hears echoes of Christ’s passion. In the 
same way, the date of the poet’s enamourment (Good Friday) and of the death of his 
beloved, his image of his pilgrimage for the veneration of the Veronica which 
resembled his endless search for a glimpse of the true poetic form he desired, and his 
struggle for personal and poetic perfection, which he depicted so often in imagery 
recalling Christ struggling up Calvary, all provide evidence for the statement that “it 
was with the very passion and death of Christ that Petrarch associated his own 
suffering as a poet and finally the ruin of his aspiration” (136). The analysis of 
Laura’s burial in a Franciscan convent, the lovers’ meeting in the Church of St. Clare, 


Italian Bookshelf 349 


the association of St. Clare with the shining sun and hence St. Francis, Apollo and 
prophecy, the wounds of love which became real when St. Francis experienced the 
stigmata, the dedication of the Franciscans and St. Clare to Christ’s wounds, and even 
the fact that St. Clare’s portrait had been painted by Simone Martini, the very artist 
who had portrayed Petrarch’s Laura, provide an abundance of further evidence of the 
theological sub-text underlying Petrarch’s poetry. Further interconnected details 
include the little-known event of the sale of Avignon to the Church by queen Joanna 
of Naples at the very moment of the plague that killed Laura, the resulting death of 
Petrarch’s cherished ideal of Roman restoration and Italian peace, his deep 
disappointment with the government of Naples following the death of King Robert, 
and finally the last poem of the Rime to the Virgin whose luminous imagery reflected 
the Apocalyptic woman of the Bible. The Rime sparse, which started with an 
invocation to Apollo, thus end appropriately with a similar invocation to the Virgin. 
Just as Christ had joined himself to Mary, and Apollo tried to unite with Daphne, so 
did the poet seek Christ in his holy wounds through the Virgin. 

The short Epilogue traces how Protestant fundamentalism caused theologians to 
abandon Petrarch to historians and literary critics who proclaimed him the herald of 
modernity. “The secularization of Petrarch depreciated and dismissed his assertion of 
divine inspiration and prophetic vocation” (153). As a Virgil and Ezekiel revived, as 
a worthy bearer of the name of St. Francis, and as a devotee of a new Apollo, Petrarch 
espoused an ideal and a god which he felt (wrongly) had badly failed: the restoration 
of the papacy to Rome. He was like Ezekiel “the poet of love songs gossiped about at 
city walls and household doors but spurned for his holy counsel” (156). Nevertheless, 
he felt strongly enough that his divinely inspired genius would allow him to ascend a 
Parnassus whose peak at least touched the Christian heaven. 

There is little doubt that this book fills a serious lacuna in Petrarch scholarship. 
The dichotomy between the Italian and the Latin Petrarch has only served to diminish 
his stature. The recent increase in interest in his Latin works has begun to provide 
new insights into his intellectual concerns and into the depth of his Christian faith. 
The manner in which this book links his political and religious ideals with his poetic 
goals is a good example of this. The “theological” analysis of poem 323, the 
linkages with St. Francis and with St. Clare, the analogies with Ezekiel, and the 
spiritual connection between the opening and closing moments of the Rime sparse 
are truly striking. There are of course a few questionable conclusions, such as the 
title, Rime sparse, implying a summons to citizens dispersed by the “Babylonian 
Captivity,” or the role played by several ancient deities in Petrarch’s view of the 
laurel, but there is little question that the course of future Petrarch scholarship will be 
strongly influenced by the findings of this book. 

Aldo S. Bernardo, SUNY at Binghamton 


Steven Grossvogel. Ambiguity and _ Allusion in  Boccaccio’s 
Filocolo. Biblioteca dell’"Archivium Romanicum, ser. 1, 248. 
Firenze: Olschki, 1992. Pp. 254. 


Grossvogel’s book-length study on the Filocolo manifests the growing interest in 
what used to be called Boccaccio’s “opere minori.” Defending this long early work of 


350 Italian Bookshelf 


Boccaccio’s from previous scholars’ criticisms, he argues that “the apparent lack of 
unity of form, style, and narrative artistry does not necessarily preclude a thematic 
unity of content and meaning” (12). The themes of the work, and the ways in which 
they interconnect different parts of the narrative, are discussed in a series of topical 
chapters. The first two take on “external” influences on the action: fate, fortune, and 
providence (especially in books 1 and 5); and astrology (especially in books 2 and 
4). A third deals with the “internal” influences of love, reason, and the appetites 
(especially in book 2). The fourth deals with issues of legality and justice raised in 
particular by Biancifiore’s trial (Boccaccio had been studying law, and the characters 
use specific legal phrases). A fifth chapter is then devoted to an analysis of the 
climactic scenes of book 4. The final chapter discusses relations between analogous 
narratives in the Filocolo and in the Decameron, not only 10.4 and 5 and the 
“quistioni d’amore” but also 5.6 and the whole Filocolo. 

The double nouns in Grossvogel’s title suggestively connect his work to two 
explicitly acknowledged lines of approach: Mazzotta and Marcus (Ambiguity), and 
Hollander, Kirkham, and Smarr (Allusion). The theme of ambiguous meanings and 
moral judgments persists throughout the volume along with a sense that matters 
which remain unresolved from the human perspective nonetheless have an absolute 
meaning and end from the perspective of divine providence. Grossvogel traces with 
frequent references the “Boethian and Thomistic philosophies at work throughout the 
Filocolo” (160), as well as Boccaccio’s uses of intertextual reference to the epics of 
Vergil and Lucan. The question of the protagonists’ victimization or complicity in 
the causes of their troubles, and more abstractly of the relations between free will and 
providential design, receive much attention throughout the study, as Grossvogel 
demonstrates how the characters’ desires are fulfilled only when they have been 
brought into alignment with providence. 

The theme of ambiguity provides a connective thread among these chapters: the 
“unstable and ambiguous” natures of language and of desire; the ambiguous 
relationship between desire and reasoning; the ambiguously comic or tragic nature of 
the lovers’ conduct; the ambiguous presence of the gods as astrological influences, 
psychological forces, and literal personages; the ambiguous moral evaluations of 
Florio as virtuous or driven by passions, faithful or deceitful, defending justice or 
breaking the law; the ambiguous value of a love leading potentially in good or evil 
directions; and the ambiguity of human and superhuman causes converging to form 
the events of the story. 

There are many useful and intriguing observations here, including: the 
connections among events forged by repeated astrological moments; the flawed 
moral and legal character of Florio’s actions as well as of Felice’s; the characters’ 
own attempts — as well as the author’s — to articulate their identities along classical 
models; some remarkably negative associations with Aeneas (identified with Satan in 
book 1); and the relation of the analogous tales here and in the Decameron not only 
to each other but also to their different contexts. Grossvogel suggests that Boccaccio 
tried to reconstruct pagan law by taking the combination of Roman and feudal law and 
subtracting all Christian references. This would accord with Boccaccio’s attempts, 
mapped by McGregor, at reconstructing classical religion and architecture. 
Grossvogel also provides much evidence to support the thesis that this romance was 
not so ill-structured as critics have claimed but rather more carefully and purposefully 


Italian Bookshelf 351 


composed. The parallels pointed out between books 2 and 4 are persuasive and further 
support Kirkham’s previous suggestions of a symmetrical structure extending beyond 
the “quistioni d’amore” in Fiammetta’s garden. 

Not only is the Decameron notorious for generating conflicting interpretations, 
but even the earlier works, although seemingly simpler in some ways, can evoke 
disagreements over the interpretation of particular details. Grossvogel argues against 
Smarr that Boccaccio is not trying to “save” the pleasures of “amor per diretto” by 
allowing them to lead to Christian faith but rather views them as a “stumbling block” 
which must be overcome and renounced. Thus he rejects Fiammetta’s triple 
categories, with “amor per diletto” in the ambiguous middle, in order to follow more 
closely Hollander’s (also Augustine’s and Boethius’s) double loves. He tends in 
chapter three to take Andreas’s book rather too seriously, from my view, as the 
authority on the rules of love, and to suggest that Boccaccio is intentionally “taking 
issue” with Andreas when they disagree. I would have preferred to see at least some 
reference to the humor of Andreas’s work, and to the discrepancy among his “laws” — 
possibly part of that humor — between rules for conduct (e.g., avoid revealing the 
identity of your beloved) and what one might call “laws of nature” (e.g., a new love 
drives out the old). I would also have liked to see more evidence for the repeated claim 
that Thebes is associated with libidinous passion; my memory links it more strongly 
with the irascibile than with the concupiscible. My reading of Menodon’s tale also 
differs from the one offered here. Grossvogel follows Kaske’s suggestion that the 
husband is “one step ahead of his wife” and responsible for cleverly rescuing her from 
her promise to the would-be lover Tarolfo. But the husband asked her to go 
“copertamente,” whereas Tarolfo was confounded by her appearing in daylight with 
companions. Perhaps the Filocolo version of this story already contains in nuce the 
role of the wife in Emilia’s version of this tale. Furthermore I would neither equate the 
wife’s desire to keep her own promise with a desire “to avoid displeasing . . . Tarolfo” 
nor Tarolfo’s act of liberality with the cessation of his original desire. Thus 
Grossvogel’s conclusion to this tale, that “desire and fear . . . disappear when all the 
constraints which nurtured them are removed” (211), seems to me unfounded. But 
these are arguments concerning specific details in a generally sound and thoughtful 
study. 


Janet Smarr, The University of Illinois, Urbana 


Konrad Eisenbichler, ed. Crossing the Boundaries: Christian Piety 
and the Arts in Italian Medieval and Renaissance Confraternities. 
Early Drama, Art and Music Monograph Series 15. Kalamazoo, 
Michigan: Medieval Institute Publications/Western Michigan 
University, 1991. Pp. 274 + 41 illus. 


In order to appreciate the richness of the Renaissance’s cultural fibre, it is important 
that this age be perceived not as a monolithic ideal, but rather as something which is 
characterized by the intellectual and artistic pluralism that gave rise to it. It would 
follow that an interdisciplinary approach to the Renaissance could yield more 


352 Italian Bookshelf 


interesting results than an approach which limits itself to isolated minutiae. 
Crossing the Boundaries is informed by a multi-disciplinary attitude to the field of 
Renaissance studies, and it focuses on uncovering the multi-layered social and cultural 
reality of the period as far as Italian confraternities are concerned. 

As the editor points out in the introduction, the municipal dimension of any 
Italian city during the end of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance is unintelligible 
without a basic understanding of the role played by the confraternities. Yet previous 
scholarship has ignored their function in both society as well as in the cultural and 
intellectual domains. The intent of Crossing the Boundaries is that of beginning to 
rectify such an undesirable status quo of scholarship. The twelve essays that make up 
the collection span the vast horizon of socio-cultural life in Italy during the medieval 
and Renaissance periods. 

Barbara Wisch argues that some confraternity art was indeed trend-setting and 
provides the Confraternity of the Gonfalone at Rome and its iconography of the 
Flagellation of Christ (1573) as an example. Jean S. Weisz analyzes the rituals of the 
S. Giovanni Decollato Confraternity at Rome, while Ellen Schiferl studies the 
contracts between confraternities and artists with the intent of showing how the 
confraternities advertised their image through commissioned art. Ludovica 
Sebregondi deals with the more marginal arts, specifically the ephemera, that were a 
daily component of confraternity life. Jonathan Glixon’s research on music and the 
confraternities brings to light a newly discovered manuscript as well as indicating the 
notable extent to which confraternities were at the leading edge of musical 
developments. Edmond Strainchamps’s essay considers the confraternity of the 
Archangel Raphael and its ties with Marco da Gagliano who was maestro di cappella 
at the Medicean court. 

Olga Pugliese uncovers a convincing link between the ethical and social 
behaviour encouraged by the confraternity of the Buonomini di San Martino at 
Florence and the socio-ethical guidelines provided by works such as Machiavelli’s 
The Prince, Guicciardini’s Ricordi, or Castiglione’s The Courtier. The character of 
confraternal piety specifically as far as death is concerned is the topic of Nicholas 
Terpstra’s contribution. 

A trio of essays look at the contributions of confraternities to the field of drama: 
Cyrilla Barr is interested in the transition from the lauda lirica to the lauda drammatica 
in the context of the disciplinati services; Kathleen Falvey focuses upon the 
conforterie, the confraternities which dedicated their activities to the comforting and 
the burial of the condemned; Nerida Newbigin analyzes the celebratory eating of the 
Sant’Agnese and Spirito Santo confraternities. 

The volume is graced with a series of illustrations that provide a visual reference 
for the topic areas covered in the essays. Precisely because of both its cultural breadth 
and of its multi-disciplinary approach (all of which adds up to a wealth of 
information) Crossing the Boundaries is a most welcome addition to the Renaissance 
specialist’s bookshelf. 


Paul Colilli, Laurentian University 


Italian Bookshelf 353 


Marsilio Ficino. Lettere. I. Epistolarum familiarium liber I. Ed. 
Sebastiano Gentile. Istituto Nazionale di Studi sul Rinascimento. 
Firenze: Leo S. Olschki, 1990. Pp. CCXIX + 322. Lire 145,000. 


Parallel to its edition of the letters of Lorenzo de’ Medici, Poggio Bracciolini, and 
Francesco Barbaro, the Istituto Nazionale di Studi sul Rinascimento has begun to 
publish a critical edition of the letters of the great Platonist Marsilio Ficino (1433- 
99). Together with Arthur Field’s The Origins of the Platonic Academy of Florence 
(Princeton, 1988) and James Hankins’ Plato in the Italian Renaissance (Leiden, 
1990), Gentile’s edition signals a veritable rinascita of Platonic studies half a 
millennium after its Ficinian flowering. 

As in the edition of Poggio’s letters, begun early in this century by Emst Walser 
and recently completed by Helene Harth, this volume represents the work of several 
generations of scholars. Indeed, five hundred years later, the history of this edition 
offers some curious parallels to the events of Ficino’s lifetime. In the preface to his 
1490 edition of Plotinus, Ficino traced the rebirth of Platonic studies back half a 
century to the 1439 Florentine encounter of Cosimo de’ Medici and the Byzantine 
scholar Gemistus Pletho. Similarly, this 1990 edition of Ficino’s letters dates back 
to the late 1930s, when a critical edition was planned following the publication of 
Paul Oskar Kristeller’s Supplementum ficinianum. It is unclear how far one should 
press the parallel between Pletho and Kristeller — both erudite foreigners who sought 
refuge in Florence when menaced by political catastrophes at home — but the cultural 
cross-fertilization continues to benefit humanistic studies in centers like the Villa I 
Tatti. The nascent Ficino project was abandoned when Kristeller left Italy for 
America, but in 1980 Alessandro Perosa passed the collected materials to his student 
Sebastiano Gentile, and the fruits of this scholarly enterprise are now appearing, fifty 
years after its conception. 

During his lifetime, Ficino assembled twelve books of his correspondence, 
letters dating from 1457 to 1494 which he first published in Venice in 1495. The 
present edition publishes the first book in the order established by Ficino himself, 
and includes letters from 1457 to 1475. As editor of this projected series of Herculean 
proportions, Gentile offers much more than a simple critical apparatus. Nearly half of 
the volume’s 600 pages are devoted to five introductory essays which supplement the 
usual indexes of names and manuscripts. The first and third of these essays — 
“L’epistole e l’opera del Ficino,” and “Formazione e storia dell’epistolario”” — are 
valuable historical essays on the background to Ficino’s letters. The second, fourth, 
and fifth — “‘Descrizione dei manoscritti e delle stampe,” “Storia del testo del I libro,” 
and “Criteri di edizione” — offer a codicological survey of the textual sources and a 
philological analysis of the problems they present. 

Of these exhaustive essays, the general reader will probably find the first essay 
most interesting for its survey of Ficino’s Platonism in the larger political and 
cultural context of Medici Florence. Indeed, Gentile’s essay offers a useful 
complement to the detailed intellectual biography given by Hankins. Taking as his 
point of departure the encounter of Cosimo de’ Medici and Gemistus Pletho, Gentile 
traces Ficino’s debts to the latter’s brand of Platonism, explores the astrological 
“confirmation” of Ficino’s mission by comet sightings in 1433 and 1456, and 
describes the difficult transition of Platonist patronage from the earnest and elderly 


354 Italian Bookshelf 


Cosimo to the young Lorenzo, who came to power as a rakish Prince Hal to be won 
over to serious concerns. 

Describing the genesis and diaspora of Ficino’s letters, the third essay provides 
a fascinating glimpse into the study of one of the Quattrocento’s most influential 
humanists. Gentile traces Ficino’s plans to collect his letters for publication, and 
describes in detail the manner in which he and his scribes assembled and revised a 
central core of letter drafts, often reworking a single epistle for several different 
occasions and expunging compromising political references. One looks forward with 
special interest to the edition of Books 5 and 6, for which the original “archetype” of 
epistolary material survives in Florence, National Library, Magl. VIII 1441. The 
only desideratum in Gentile’s apparatus is a biographical glossary of Ficino’s 
correspondents, but English readers may consult the one provided in The Letters of 
Marsilio Ficino (London, 1975-). 

Having sampled this rich appetizer, the reader may in fact find the main course a 
bit meager, for Ficino’s letters convey little of the flavor of life in Quattrocento 
Florence. Reminiscent of Seneca’s Letters to Lucilius, Ficino’s letters generally 
consists of brief philosophical homilies, to which the author has prefixed caption- 
like titles. Yet compared to Seneca’s pointed style, Ficino writes more 
syllogistically, and his Latin is permeated by late coinages which reveal the 
mediation of Church Fathers and scholastic theologians. Indeed, he often echoes the 
confessional raptures of St. Augustine (witness Epistle 4 with its dialogue between 
God and the soul), thus paying tribute to the most celebrated Christian converted by 
Platonic “theology.” In this regard, an exchange of letters between Ficino and 
Lorenzo — Epistles 22-28, dating from early 1473 — offers a striking contrast 
between the impassioned homilies of the philosopher and the orotund formality of 
the young Medici ruler. At times, the Senecan preciosity becomes almost cloying, as 
in the consolatory Epistle 97, addressed to the Venetian patrician Bernardo Bembo: 
“Dic age, Bernardo, si licet, quid in amici obitu luges, mortemne an mortuum? Si 
mortem, luge Bernarde, tuam. . . . Si mortuum, malumne an bonum? Si malus erat, 
bonum tibi est familiarem eiusmodi amisisse, bonis vero tuis dolere non debes; si 
bonus fuit . . . bonum certe illi est seorsum a continua morte corporis vivere, tantis 
autem amici bonis videre non decet.” 

Besides its central philosophical dimension, Ficino’s collection also bears 
witness to his prominent social connections (as in Cicero’s Familiares) by including 
single letters addressed to the philosopher by such luminaries as Cardinal Bessarion, 
Carlo Marsuppini, and Cosimo de’ Medici, as well as a number of epistolary 
exchanges with the young Lorenzo. Yet the eye of the author on posterity has 
generally eliminated the political and financial realia so abundant in Cicero. Thus, in 
his Epistle 29 to Giovanni Cavalcanti, Ficino summarizes the 1483 Florentine 
political scene in the opaque words “tractantur gravia.” Since Ficino is often more 
concerned with literary and philosophical issues than with politics, the reader will 
profit greatly from Gentile’s numerous, concise glosses on the dense literary 
allusions, which range from the Bible to Bessarion. (A rare instance of editorial 
fallibility occurs in a note on Epistle 45, in which Ficino cites Latin verses 
conceming the Spartan king Lycurgus. The translator is not Matteo Palmieri, but 
Francesco Filelfo, who used the passage to introduce his 1432 Latin version of 
Xenophon’s Spartan Constitution.) 


Italian Bookshelf 355 


As a philosopher, Ficino obviously intended to give his readers the greatest 
pleasure and profit in his doctrinal epistles. Book 1 includes the celebrated Epistle 6 
to Pellegrino Agli, “De divino furore” (“On Divine Madness”), which enjoyed a wide 
circulation separately in manuscript in both Latin and in an anonymous Italian 
translation. Other Ficinian disquisitions of general interest include Epistle 51 to 
Giovanni Cavalcanti, a theory of friendship; Epistle 92 to Antonio Canigiani, a 
comparison between music and medicine; Epistle 95 to Lorenzo de’ Medici, a theory 
of law and justice; Epistle 115 to Lorenzo, a discussion of happiness; and Epistle 123 
to Bernardo Bembo, a series of brief encomia of philosophy under different rubrics. 

Some of the letters reflect specific situations, as in the interesting series 
(Epistles 80-84) dating from Ficino’s serious illness in August, 1474. Epistle 80 to 
Francesco Marescalchi recounts a Marian miracle experienced by the author’s 
physician father; Epistle 81 to Tommaso Valori lauds the science of medicine; and 
Epistles 82 and 84 offer an exchange with Lorenzo on husbanding one’s time. But 
here too the philosophical dimension overshadows the political, and most readers 
would scarcely understand Ficino’s vague complaints about adulators in Epistle 82. 
Fortunately, Gentile’s annotation compensates for Ficino’s own editorial reticence. 
Concerning this letter in his introduction (pp. LVI-LVm1), Gentile points to Luigi Pulci 
as Ficino’s detractor, and his apparatus to Epistles 113 and 114 (both titled “Contra 
mendaces et impios detractores”) shows how Ficino later expunged references to Luigi 
Pulci and his brother Bernardo. 

To conclude, this series of Ficino’s letters has begun with an exemplary volume, 
which readers will consult as much for Gentile’s Supplementum ficinianum as for the 
epistles of the philosopher’s first book. 


David Marsh, Rutgers University 


Diana Robin. Filelfo in Milan: Writings 1451-1477. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1991. Pp. xv + 269. 


In traditional discussions of Renaissance Humanism, Francesco Filelfo has been a 
favorite whipping-boy. V. Rossi, for example, condemned his “impudente 
pieghevolezza di carattere e . . . ciarlatanesca prosopopea”; J. E. Sandys dismissed 
him thus: “He combined the accomplishments of a scholar with the insidiousness and 
the brutality of a brigand.” The venality and self-importance of Humanism at its worst 
has long seemed embodied in Filelfo. A few years ago in the Renaissance Quarterly 
(1983), Diana Robin proposed a reassessment of her subject’s character. Perhaps the 
principal virtue of her present book is the thoroughly convincing way in which she 
makes Filelfo a far more interesting writer than he seemed previously. 

The main reason for the traditional estimation of Filelfo was simple: he was 
barely read. Likewise, the antidote is obvious: print his texts. Nevertheless, Robin’s 
book is not simply an anthology, because of the need to put Filelfo’s writings in 
biographical, social and literary context. Hence the book’s organization. Each of the 
five chapters provides that context and an interpretation of one of Filelfo’s works, 
with abundant quotation. To each chapter there corresponds an appendix with the 


356 Italian Bookshelf 


relevant texts or synopses. Because nearly all the texts have previously existed only 
in manuscript or early printed editions, the usefulness of the appendices alone should 
be obvious. But the structure of the whole book and its ongoing argument supply 
further illumination. 

Each of the chapters bears a brief title which encapsulates in an image (with 
varying degrees of success) the text and the period of Filelfo’s career discussed there. 
Chapter 1, “The Scar,” introduces us to the mammoth autobiographical project of 
Filelfo’s Epistolae familiares. Robin focuses on how the letters of Books 1-3 
construct various versions of the patron-client relationship. Particularly revealing is 
an example of ‘“‘self-fashioning” which gives the chapter its title. In 1433 Filelfo was 
attacked and wounded in Florence by an assailant hired by the Medici, with whom the 
humanist was on increasingly bad terms. Robin compares accounts of the assault in 
contemporary legal documents, in a letter Filelfo wrote soon afterwards but did not 
publish in his Epistolae, and in a polished letter to Enea Silvio Piccolomini written 
six years later, which Filelfo did publish as his “official” version of the experience 
(printed in an appendix). She sees the elaboration of that version as a “guiding 
paradigm” (21) for her study of patronage in the Epistolae. Subsequently, Robin 
examines three representative relationships in the letters: with Leonardo Giustiniani 
(a Venetian patrician patron), Giovanni Aurispa (‘‘antimodel, colleague, confidante, 
foil” 30), and Ambrogio Traversari (where we see the degeneration of a relationship 
with an ally of the Medici). 

Chapter 2, “Rape,” is perhaps the most interesting, because it performs the most 
dramatic feat of rehabilitation with the text in question, Filelfo’s unfinished epic 
Sforziad. The poem has traditionally been considered an abject panegyric of 
Francesco Sforza, and the poet’s notorious offer of inclusion in his poem and thus of 
immortality for a price has been ironically contrasted with the fact that the Sforziad 
has never been printed. Irony there is in the poem’s fate, but it lies rather in the 
unjust neglect suffered by what is far more than courtly flattery in hexameters. Robin 
discusses Book 3, which is printed in its entirety as an appendix. The subject there is 
one of the uglier episodes of Italian warfare in the Quattrocento, the siege and sack of 
Piacenza by Sforza, winning the rebellious city back under the sway of Milan. Robin 
compares Filelfo’s account to those of Milanese propagandists and succeeds in 
showing the poet’s relative independence. He dwells on the atrocities which followed 
victory, particularly the prolonged and systematic rape of Piacenza’s female 
population. His treatment of Sforza, nominally the hero, is nuanced and not lacking 
in irony. 

The five books of Filelfo’s Odae are the subject of Chapter 3, “Hunger.” The 
poems which are particularly discussed and printed in the appendix (1.10, 2.2, 2.3, 
3.4, 4.5, 4.7) have two main themes. The odes of Book 4 are chiefly about the plague 
of 1451 and how it affected the poet. Odes 4.5 and 4.7 pursue the self-portrait also 
developed in Filelfo’s letters. On the other hand, Books 1-3 comment satirically on 
the short-lived Ambrosian republic in Milan. Between 1447 and 1450, that is 
between the death of the last Visconti and the beginning of Francesco Sforza’s rule, 
Milan had a freely elected government. The experiment failed in a time of civil war 
and famine, but Filelfo’s violent literary opposition is based on a preference in 
principle of monarchy over democracy. One significant example he gives of the 
incompetence of popular rule is the inability of the republic to deal with a grain 


Italian Bookshelf 357 


shortage. That this is a matter of more than abdominal interest to the poet can be seen 
for example in Ode 1.10, which concerns “the connections between physical well- 
being and artistic creativity” (94). 

Chapters 1-3 have a certain thematic unity in presenting various aspects of the 
patron-client relationship. In Filelfo’s letters we see that relationship on the 
personal level, where there is an exchange of praise for material support. The theme 
of Sforziad 3 is “the violence of clientage at the city-state level” (68). And the anti- 
republican polemic of the Odes considers the same dynamic within the state, deciding 
that monarchy lends the most favorable setting to relations of clientage — the prince 
can at least give his subjects bread. The final two chapters are less satisfying, 
although they provide helpful readings of important works. In discussing 
Psychagogia and De morali disciplina, Robin remains within the world of traditional 
philosophical discourse, giving valuable information on structure and sources, but 
not connecting these works with material reality as she did in the earlier chapters. 
(That is, she introduces the conjuncture of dedication etc. within which Filelfo wrote 
both works, but does not investigate its presence in the texts themselves.) Surely 
clientage is not irrelevant to a metaphysical treatise, although it may be harder to 
elucidate than in a epic poem. 

Psychagogia is the name Filelfo gave to his Greek poetry, 44 poems in elegiac 
couplets and Sapphics which he finished in 1465 and gathered into three books. 
Some of these poems were printed by Emile Legrand in the late nineteenth century; 
Robin gives synopses of all in an appendix and provides text, translation and 
commentary for two of them in Chapter 4, “Levity.” Both poems, addressed 
respectively to Palla Strozzi and Donato Acciaiuoli, are philosophical poems, and 
turn out to be tissues of commonplaces. They have an especially strong debt to Plato. 
The same may be said for De morali disciplina, Filelfo’s most ambitious 
philosophical work. This treatise, abandoned after 1475 with only three books 
completed, has a place in the mid-Quattrocento debate in Cardinal Bessarion’s circle 
concerning Plato and Aristotle. Filelfo attempts to reconcile the two philosophers, 
but what is more interesting is the “decidedly non-Christian outlook” (150) of his 
work. In her consideration of Book 1 (printed as an appendix), where Filelfo lays the 
foundations for his ethics, Robin shows his eclecticism. He draws not only on Plato 
and Aristotle, but also on Cicero, Augustine, Aquinas and the Neoplatonists. His 
work may be set between Bessarion’s In calumniatorem Platonis and Ficino’s 
Theologia platonica. In fact, Robin makes a significant contribution to the history 
of pre-Ficino uses of Plato and Neoplatonism, noting the dedication to Lorenzo de’ 
Medici. 

If Filelfo’s career seems to come full circle, from his early residence in Florence 
to his return there shortly before his death in 1481, there is also a paradoxical 
trajectory from the early enmity with Cosimo il Vecchio, which almost cost him his 
life, to the invitation from Cosimo’s grandson, which brought the humanist back. It 
is a paradox characteristic of Quattrocento patronage and the social situation of 
Humanism, and a paradox which is illuminated by Diana Robin’s admirable book. She 
shows us that Renaissance Humanism must be understood through consideration of 
the literary significance of patronage. 

Stephen Murphy, Wake Forest University 


358 Italian Bookshelf 


Denise Alexandre-Gras. L’héroisme chevaleresque dans le Roland 
Amoureux de Boiardo. Saint-Etienne: Publications de _ 1’Université 
de Saint-Etienne, 1988. 


L’opera della studiosa Denise Alexandre-Gras non é certo una sopresa per gli 
appassionati di critica boiardesca: questo monumentale studio che, in Francia, 
dovrebbe corrispondere alla “dissertation” che corona il dottorato di ricerca delle 
universita americane era annunciato da tempo. Alexandre-Gras aveva infatti gia 
pubblicato un’opera molto apprezzata sul Boiardo lirico (Le Canzoniere de Boiardo: 
Du pétrarchisme a l'inspiration personelle, 1980) e vari studi (Le conteur et son 
public dans le Roland amoureux de Boiardo, ou le jeux de la réalite et de la fiction 
1978; La métamorphose dans le Roland amoureux de Boiardo, 1981 e Tre figure 
boiardesche di eroe saraceno: Ferraguto, Agricane Rodamonte, 1983) che hanno 
preparato l’opera maggiore qui recensita. 

Il libro s’impermia sul quesito fondamentale della personalita letteraria sfuggente 
ed ambivalente del Boiardo: “Boiardo est-il, en somme, le ‘primitif’ que prétendait 
Croce, le néo-gothique qu’une critique plus récente a cru déceler? Ou bien est-il un 
humaniste en accord avec les courants de pensée les plus modernes de son epoque?” 
(5). La studiosa scarta a priori la soluzione, forse pit sbrigativa, di analizzare le opere 
minori del Boiardo, gia ampiamente trattate, e ritiene sia giusto affrontare 
sistematicamente e frontalmente il poema, 1’/nnamorato, a cui la critica non ha finora 
consacrato un’attenzione sufficiente (56). Poiché risulterebbe troppo conplicato 
ricercare i punti d’interesse critico nei 35.432 versi dell’/nnamorato, Alexandre-Gras 
dirige il suo esame verso lo studio dell’eroismo, dato che in definitiva 1’esaltazione 
dell’eroe @ il tema essenziale del poema. In questo la studiosa francese trova 
sostenitori nel critico letterario George Weise e nello storico dell’arte André Chastel. 

Denise Alexandre-Gras procede nell’analisi del poema boiardesco su un duplice 
binario: da una parte riallacciando l’opera al genere letterario preesistente, che é il 
romanzo cavalleresco medievale, dall’altra situando 1’/mnamorato in seno alle 
correnti d’idee umanistiche che coinvolgono un secolo pieno di cambiamenti. Nel far 
questo Alexandre-Gras rende esplicite le sue preferenze verso un gruppo di critici tra 
cui ricordiamo Pio Rajna, che ebbe per primo |’intuizione, quasi un secolo fa, del 
formidabile impatto culturale che, a partire dalla Chanson de Roland, si abbatté sui 
grandi romanzi cavallereschi italiani e sul Don Chisciotte, poi vogliamo ricordare 
Giovanni Ponte, Antonio Franceschetti e Ferruccio Ulivi che hanno risolutamente 
rifiutato, per Boiardo, l’epiteto di primitivo o tardo gotico e hanno intravisto nella 
sua Opera maggiore un nuovo spirito interpretativo di una vita distaccata dagli ideali 
del Medio Evo, pur avendo I’aria di ripercorrerne ]’eredita pit vistosa (12). 

L’opera della Denise Alexandre-Gras si divide in tre parti, che rappresentano tre 
fasi evolutive del pensiero critico della studiosa francese: la prima parte, dal titolo 
L'aventure chevaleresque, svolge in due capitoli i temi della battaglia e dell’amore; la 
seconda parte, La mise en question de I’ héroisme chevaleresque, approfondisce in due 
capitoli i temi dello scetticismo e del comico e dell’umorismo nell’/nnamorato. La 
terza parte, che dimostra la nuova arte di vivere nsita nel poema (Un nouvel art de 
vivre), svolge, sempre in due capitoli, i temi dei nuovi valori cortesi e umanistici del 


Italian Bookshelf 359 


. 


Boiardo. L’organizzazione dell’opera @ impeccabile e razionale: presenta una 
introduzione e una conclusione generale nonché piccole introduzioni e conclusioni 
per ogni capitolo. Viene infine data un’ampia bibliografia, per settori. Un indice di 
nomi propri completa l’opera che, forse, ad una prima lettura, pud apparire un po’ 
troppo ordinata, un po’ troppo scolastica, mentre invece é lo specchio della maniera 
di scrivere e di pensare di una mente metodica e rigorosa. 

Il volume, di quasi 400 pagine, @ praticamente un’opera filologica nel senso che 
l’autrice ripercorre il poema di Boiardo verso per verso, analizzando ogni parola, 
ogni congiunzione o preposizione per dimostrare le sue varie tesi. I] lettore critico 
deve vincere la tentazione di saltare a pié pari i vari capitoli, sottocapitoli e sezioni 
per leggere soltanto le conclusioni quando, invece, tutto il libro, pagina per pagina, 
contiene osservazioni e spunti critici originali ed interessantissimi. Per ragioni di 
spazio mi limiterd a mettere in rilievo solamente alcune idee che mi sembrano 
fondamentali e basilari per ogni futuro svolgimento della critica boiardesca. Per 
Alexandre-Gras una lettura attenta degli Amorum libri (Il Canzoniere) rappresenta il 
modo pit utile per avvicinarsi all’intepretazione corretta del poema (76) ed alla 
concezione dell’amore, che, nell’/nnamorato, @ senz’altro nuova. Boiardo ha voluto 
fare dell’insoddisfazione la legge fondamentale dell’amore: ecco qui il legame tra 
l’Innamorato e gli Amorum libri, dove il sentimento d’amore é descritto nelle sue fasi 
successive di felicita e sfortuna (83). Si pud quasi concludere cosi che nell’Orlando 
innamorato s’identifica, in certa misura, il poeta stesso (94). 

Come negli Amorum libri, anche nell’Jnmnamorato la gelosia é corollario 
inseparabile dell’amore (84). In tal modo il concetto dell’amore esclusivo che ne 
deriva, si avvicina pit all’ Ars amatoria di Ovidio che all’amore cortese. E evidente 
dunque che il cambiamento é radicale in rapporto al concetto di fin’amors che ispira 
ancora 1 romanzi bretoni ed anche in rapporto al petrarchismo ortodosso (87). 
L’amore é ancora fatalita per Boiardo, ma la sensualita e la gelosia vengono a 
contrastare il valore nobilitante derivato dalla tradizione medievale. L’idealismo 
astratto cede il posto ad una osservazione pill concreta della realta. Uno dei fattori 
determinanti di questa evoluzione nella concezione dell’amore @ costituita dalla 
personalita conferita alle donne di Boiardo nell’Jnnamorato (Angelica, Leodilla, 
Origille, Tisbina ecc.). La forte sensualita ed il raggiro fino alla perfidia rendono 
ridicolo ed inadeguato un amore spirituale ed etereo (125). 

Un altro spunto critico notevole é il discorso sull’ironia, parodia e umorismo 
nell’Jnnamorato. Nel suo poema epico Boiardo riproduce gli eccessi e le 
contraddizioni dei Cantari formando un pastiche (222), e quindi una parodia, una 
forma di scetticismo sorridente del poeta verso la materia cavalleresca. Alexandre- 
Gras giunge perfino a parlare di autoironia per cui Boiardo prende le distanze, ridendo, 
dalla sua attivita di narratore. A questo punto, naturalmente, la studiosa francese cita 
Elgozy ed Eco per le loro opere di teoria della critica (231). L’Innamorato @ un’opera 
aperta che si oppone alla struttura chiusa del Furioso dell’Ariosto (175-76). Se 
Boiardo mostra, nel suo poema, un’acuta repulsione a concludere, tale tendenza 
aderisce pienamente al mito rinascimentale del perpetuo rinnovamento. Boiardo 
viene cosi visto come precursore del genere feuilleton (175). Ma l’ironia e la parodia 
non sono mai aspre nell’Jnnamorato: nel poema infatti coesistono umorismo e 
tenerezza. Il sorriso del Boiardo perd non é quello del Pulci, perché il nostro autore 
non si permette mai di mettere in ridicolo il comportamento in battaglia dei suoi eroi 


360 Italian Bookshelf 


principali (251)! 

Alexandre-Gras sottolinea altre novita dell’Jnnamorato. Per esempio, Boiardo 
arricchisce i combattimenti del poema con rivolgimenti imprevisti che possono far 
pensare alle “peripezie” aristoteliche (41). Nell’Jnnamorato implicitamente e nel 
Timone esplicitamente Boiardo condanna la dismisura degli eroi: tale concetto, oltre 
che trovare il suo terreno nella corrente di pensiero dell’ Umanesimo, impemia il libro 
VII dell’Etica Nicomachea di Aristotele (185). Questi timidi accenni, relativi ad una 
conoscenza di opere aristoteliche da parte del Boiardo, lasciano il lettore critico non 
solo stupefatto ma soprattutto ansioso di approfondire la portata del problema. 

Concludendo, L’héroisme chevaleresque dans le Roland Amoureux de Boiardo é 
un’opera solida, frutto di una profonda meditazione, e una pietra miliare nella critica 
del Boiardo. 


Mauda Bregoli-Russo, University of Illinois at Chicago 


Sergio Zatti. Jl Furioso fra epos e romanzo. Lucca, Pacini Fazzi, 
1990. Pp. 212. 


In una recensione di qualche mese fa, il critico James Mirollo esprimeva la sua 
meraviglia davanti al numero di testi apparsi di recente in libreria sul romanzo 
cavalleresco, un genere che si credeva da tempo sepolto. Dal momento che i “libri di 
battaglia” si distinguono per essere sia mastodontici che in versi, si sarebbe portati a 
pensare che la combinazione sia poco esilarante per un pubblico odierno di lettori 
dalla memoria breve e dal tempo libero limitato. Invece la produzione sia al di qua che 
al di 1a dell’Atlantico &, a dir poco, raddoppiata negli ultimi anni. E Ariosto a questo 
punto il maggior beneficiario del nuovo interesse verso il genere cavalleresco, a 
giudicare dai titoli. E con ragione: in un periodo in cui ci sono poche verita, e in ogni 
caso non verita da trovare nella Storia, é diventato possibile leggere Ariosto come 
autore postmoderno; invece di denunciare la sua ironia come problematicamente 
apolitica la si @ cominciata a rileggere come politicamente indispensabile a 
smantellare il meccanismo di fonti, autorita e legittimita tanto caro a critici del 
passato recente. 

Sergio Zatti entra nel dibattito sull’Ariosto con le carte in regola, dopo anni di 
lavoro su Tasso e sull’epos. I] titolo del suo libro indica che l’argomento in 
considerazione sara l’esplorazione delle connessioni tra il Furioso come romanzo e il 
Furioso come erede della tradizione epica. E questo effettivamente il contenuto del 
primo capitolo in cui Zatti riprende e criticamente allarga il discorso della critica 
recente (i.e., Parker, Quint) sul Furioso come testo epico tendente teleologicamente 
verso una conclusione. Cosi, Zatti scrive, Ariosto rende indispensabili alla struttura 
del suo romanzo i temi tipici della letteratura cavalleresca, quali l’entrelacement e la 
quéte e i suoi correlati, deviazione e differimento, ma dopo la meta del testo cambia 
radicalmente il loro uso in modo da arrivare a mettere la parola fine a ogni singolo 
nodo tematico. Il secondo capitolo mostra come sia importante la quéte nel Furioso: 
tutti i personaggi, per Zatti, sono impegnati o esclusivamente motivati dalla ricerca 
di oggetti di desiderio. Quindi, contro Carne-Ross che lamentava la fine dell’inchiesta 


Italian Bookshelf 361 


nel Furioso come errore tattico, Zatti dimostra che invece questa é stata una precisa 
scelta dell’autore: quando Ariosto comincia a raccogliere le varie fila del suo racconto, 
la quéte diventa si meno materiale ma non meno importante come strumento 
conoscitivo. Nel terzo, quarto e quinto capitolo viene discussa la relazione del tema 
della ricerca sia con l’oggetto che con il soggetto di desiderio e la sua connessione 
con codici letterari (per esempio, quello petrarchesco), storico/ideologici e 
psicologici. Tutti 1 cavalieri erranti ariosteschi sono alla ricerca di qualcosa che loro 
manca e senza la quale si sentono incompleti, ma questa ricerca @ quasi 
inevitabilmente destinata al fallimento perché quello che si trova non é mai adeguato 
a quello che si cerca (Angelica, per esempio, non corrisponde ai sentimenti di 
Orlando) o pud perfino essere messo da parte per un’altra quéte temporanea. Qui Zatti 
si riallaccia brillantemente alla teorizzazione girardiana del desiderio mediato per cui i 
vari oggetti di desiderio sono un mezzo per entrare in contatto con I’altro da sé. 

I capitoli 6 e 7 esplorano i meccanismi di verita/finzione nel mondo storico e in 
quello letterario. Concentrandosi sul rapporto cosmo/corte, Zatti esamina i temi di 
tradimento e lealta, ingratitudine e riconoscenza, perdita e acquisto, temi che 
riproducono il rapporto terra/luna e che costituiscono l’asse portante del Furioso. 
Anche qui Zatti mette in evidenza la mancanza di corrispondenza tra quello che si 
riceve e quello che viene dato, tipica del meccanismo della quéte, e la triangolarita di 
questo rapporto: tradendo una persona, per esempio, si manca di fiducia a un’altra, 
come nel caso di Odorico che, nel suo tentativo di violentare Isabella, si rende 
colpevole di mancanza di fede verso il suo migliore amico, Zerbino. 

E nel settimo capitolo, nell’uso ironico di Turpino come referente della verita 
storica del Furioso, che Zatti é al suo meglio. Nel ricostruire il ragionamento di un 
autore totalmente in controllo del suo materiale ma interessato a ricrearsi un’autorita 
storica poco attendibile che lo legittimi dove @ meno necessario nello stesso atto in 
cui contamina la sua storicita con modelli letterari la cui provenienza non cita, Zatti 
smaschera il meccanismo ariostesco per cui qualsiasi verita é di per sé relativa, 
condizionata da storia, cultura e ideologia, 0 viceversa, qualsiasi finzione pud essere 
storicamente documentata e riciclata come verita. 

Spero di aver dato un’idea in questa sintesi di quanto criticalmente vitale e 
provocante sia ]’intervento di Zatti sul soggetto che sta pit’ coinvolgendo la critica 
recente: la relazione problematica del Furioso con il romanzo e l’epos, testo aperto e 
testo chiuso. Mi permetto solo di fare due aggiunte che rappresentano pil’ una 
spronatura ad andare a fondo che detrazioni al testo in sé. Il breve capitolo “La 
psicologia nel Furioso” secondo me sarebbe dovuto essere di molto approfondito 
perché il titolo promette molto di pit’ di quel che il contenuto offre e Zatti ha gia 
dimostrato altrove che sarebbe capace di una lettura psicologica e psicoanalitica 
molto pil stringata. Ma qui si preoccupa della problematicita (molto dibattuta del 
resto da queste parti ma recentemente risolta in positivo) dell’applicazione al 
Rinascimento di strumenti d’analisi psicologica storicamente molto pit recenti. 
Inoltre, 1’accoglimento cosi totale del desiderio girardiano che percorre molte pagine 
del testo andrebbe secondo me rivisto per permettere una lettura pit aperta a differenze 
di gender. Perché, se é vero che il meccanismo triangolare per cui il soggetto desidera 
l’oggetto in quanto é il rivale a desiderarlo @ in sé incredibilmente fruttuoso di 
applicazioni, é anche vero che per Girard l’oggetto ha sempre un sesso ben preciso, a 
meno che non si tratti di una cosa inanimata (per esempio, una spada, un elmetto): @ 


362 Italian Bookshelf 


sempre una donna a dover fare da go-between in un rapporto omosociale. Ma questi 
sono semplici peccadillos in un libro per il resto cosi provocante nella sua tematica e 
originale nelle sue intuizioni critiche. 


Valeria Finucci, Duke University 


Mauda _ Bregoli-Russo. L’impresa come ritratto del Rinascimento. 
Napoli: Loffredo, 1990. Pp. 272. 


Bregoli-Russo examines the impresa as a characteristic, even quintessential, feature 
of the Italian Renaissance. More than a product, she sees the impresa as a paradigm of 
a way of thinking that defines Renaissance culture and its values. Often her argument 
invites the reader to explore the matrix of word, image and symbol that lies beneath 
the more formal expressions of the Renaissance world view. Her discussion is wide- 
ranging as she traces the development of the impresa from the quattrocento to the 
threshold of the settecento. Like a popular Renaissance image, the gem, her 
interdisciplinary discussion has many facets — philosophy, literature, the history of 
printing, art, theatre, semiotics, Hermeneutics, hieroglyphics, Renaissance 
academies, ekphrasis, art criticism, Ariosto, and so on. A particularly illuminating 
facet is her discussion of Hebrew components in the culture of Mantova as revealed in 
the impresa of Isabella d’Este. There is also an interesting section on the imprese and 
the press of the Giolito de’ Ferrari family. 

In its attempt to define an impresa, emblem scholarship has been handicapped 
by a lack of precision in the emblem literature of the Renaissance itself. Bregoli- 
Russo continues the effort to define the problem of definition and to work toward a 
definitive solution. Her book is not so much a systematic study as an exploration, 
replete with new glimpses of familiar territory and vistas of new regions to explore. 
The book is well-indexed and with a bibliography. It is profusely illustrated, 
although the publisher’s offprint techniques are not always state-of-the-art. 


T. C. Price Zimmermann, Davidson College 


Camillo, Giulio. L’idea del theatro. Introduzione e note a cura di 
Lina Bolzoni. Palermo: Sellerio, 1991. Pp. 206. 


Affidata dall’autore a carte manoscritte e relegata da tempo in “caselle” sperdute, 
ultimamente l’opera del letterato e filosofo, mago e cabalista Giulio Camillo — detto 
Delminio (Castello di Zappola, Portogruaro 1480 ca. - Milano 1544)— viene spesso 
citata in studi sulle correnti filosofiche ed ereticali che circolavano in Italia prima del 
Concilio di Trento, in lavori sull’arte della memoria, e in indagini sui legami tra la 
trattatistica d’arte e quella letteraria (specie per quanto riguarda la costruzione e 
l’interpretazione di figure simboliche, di emblemi). 


Italian Bookshelf 363 


Pit si fa chiaro l’eclettismo culturale del Camillo, e meglio si cominciano a 
intravedere le ragioni per cui la critica si occupd poco di lui. I censori, dopo la morte 
del Camillo, “preoccupati . . . dalle potenzialita eversive ed esoteriche” del pensiero 
camilliano, non si limitarono a sottoporre l’opera del friulano ad amputazioni 
“teratologiche”, ma giunsero perfino a denunciare “come ambigua la sua proposta 
sincretistica, che fondeva insieme neoplatonismo ficiniano e aristotelismo di stampo 
patavino, mnemotecnica antica e cabala ebraica, impostazione fortemente 
tecnicistica dell’idea di imitatio (per di pit poggiata al livello teorico su 
rivoluzionarie fondamenta magico-metafisiche) e lettura ‘topica’ e ‘anatémica’ dei 
poeti classici” (Corrado Bologna, Immagini della memoria. Variazioni intorno al 
“Theatro” di G. Camillo e al “Romanzo” di C. E. Gadda, “‘Strumenti critici” 56 (1988): 
21k 

L’opera del Camillo, di cui il Croce gia nel 1947 ne auspicava una “indulgente 
interpretazione” (cfr. l’acuta rassegna di Eugenio Garin, Teatri della memoria, ‘“‘La 
rivista dei libri”, dicembre 1991, p. 5), € oggi meglio conosciuta, grazie agli studi di 
critici quali Eugenio Garin (Ermetismo del Rinascimento, Roma, Ed. Riuniti, 1988), 
Corrado Bologna (op. cit.; il Bologna sta per pubblicare un’edizione dell’inedito 
Theatro della sapienza del Camillo), Lina Bolzoni (II teatro della memoria. Studi su 
Giulio Camillo, Padova, Liviana 1984), Cesare Vasoli (J miti e gli astri, Napoli, 
Guida, 1977), Giorgio Stabile (la voce Giulio Camillo nel Dizionario biografico degli 
italiani, 1974), Lu Beery Wenneker (la sua tesi di Ph.D. — accessibile in microfilm 
— “An Examination of L’idea del theatro of Giulio Camillo, U of Pittsburgh, 1970), 
Frances A. Yates (The Art of Memory, London, 1966), e Paolo Rossi (Clavis 
universalis. Arti della memoria e logica combinatoria da Lullo a Leibniz, Milano- 
Napoli, Ricciardi, 1960). Tuttavia, rimane ancora molto lavoro di scavo, osserva la 
Bolzoni (la quale ha pubblicato parecchi inediti del Camillo ed é acuta specialista di 
letteratura mnemotecnica medievale), che “ci permetta di recuperare in primo luogo i 
testi originali, di documentare rapporti, di ricostruire ambienti” (// teatro della 
memoria XIV). 

La recente edizione de L’idea del theatro segna l’apice (almeno per ora) dei 
profondi studi in cui la Bolzoni fa luce sul pensiero criptico camilliano, pensiero che 
secondo il Bologna “sembra la muraglia cinese entro cui, per l’ansia di proteggersi 
dall’indiscreta curiosita dei non adepti (cioé dei ‘non filosofi’) il pensatore si é 
rinchiuso, rimanendo soffocato dal suo stesso baluardo” (Immagini della memoria 
25). Difatti, 1’Jdea del theatro si apre appunto con un richiamo al principio 
dell’ermetismo, alla gnoseologia misterica: “I pit antichi et pid savi scrittori hanno 
sempre havuto in costume di raccomandare a’ loro scritti i secreti di Dio sotto oscuri 
velami, accioché non siano intesi se non da coloro i quali (come dice Christo) hanno 
le orecchie da udire, cioé che da Dio sono eletti ad intendere i suoi santissimi misteri. 
. .. A questo habbiamo da aggiunger che Mercutio Trismegisto [mitico fondatore della 
sapienza pagana] dice che il parlar religioso et pieno di Dio, vien ad esser violato 
quando gli sopraviene moltitudine volgare” (47-48). 

Il testo curato dalla Bolzoni riproduce da vicino — con alcune correzioni — la 
prima edizione (uscita postuma a Firenze presso il Torrentino nel 1550) a cura di 
Lodovico Dominichi. Per la maggior parte le correzioni sono dedotte dalle successive 
edizioni venete apparse nella seconda meta del Cinquecento. La Bolzoni interviene 
anche in alcuni casi in cui l’incertezza nell’uso delle doppie poteva rendere 


364 Italian Bookshelf 


“impossibile la comprensione del testo” (ad es. cannone > canone, pp. 77, 78, 87; 
leca > lecca, p. 14). Sembra opportuno segnalare che una copia dell’edizione 
veneziana 1580 di Tutte l’opere (per 1 tipi dei Gioliti), identica a quella del 1579, e 
quindi conforme alle precedenti, @ reperibile presso la Brown University Library. 

A differenza dell’/dea of a Theater di Francis Ferguson che, mediante |’ analisi di 
capolavori teatrali, offre un’“idea” attraverso cui possiamo tentare di recuperare “the 
ancient understanding of dramatic art” (1949; Princeton UP, 1972, p. 4), l’Jdea del 
theatro del Camillo doveva contenere, fra ]’altro, i risultati di “anatomia” dei testi 
esemplari di autori quali Cicerone, Virgilio, Petrarca e Boccaccio, ed offrire cosi 
l’artificio cui é consegnata la bellezza di tali opere. Infatti, osserva la Bolzoni, nel 
teatro del Camillo, “dietro il modello di tutti i poemi . . . possibili, si intravede il 
modello di tutti i quadri, le statue, gli edifici possibili” (/1 teatro della memoria 19-20; 
della stessa cfr. anche L’universo dei poemi possibili. Studi su Francesco Patrizi da 
Cherso, Roma, Bulzoni, 1980). 

L’idea centrale del Camillo é di riprodurre lo spettacolo del cosmo, di creare cioé 
un’enciclopedia totale in cui sono visualizzati per mezzo di simboli (e distribuiti in 
sette categorie logico-retoriche) tutti i rami dello scibile, in modo da offrire all’utente 
una chiave, “una via spedita a cogliere e impossessarsi di ogni pil’ minuta nozione” 
(Stabile 219). Nella sua complessa struttura e simbologia, il “theatro” si presenta 
come una scacchiera fatta di 49 caselle prodotte dall’incrocio fra due tipi di ordini: uno 
ascendente (le 7 colonne, o porte, raffigurate dai sette pianeti: Luna, Mercurio, 
Venere, Sole, Marte, Giove, Saturno) e uno in senso orizzontale (lungo i sette gradi). 
I pianeti “in figura umana” corrispondono alle Sefiroth (cioé a 7 dei 10 nomi segreti 
di Dio), ed ogni Sefiroth corrisponde ad un angelo; i 7 gradi indicano le fasi della 
creazione che inizia nel divino e si espande fino alle attivita umane (Bolzoni, Lo 
spettacolo della memoria, L’idea del theatro 21-22). Diviso in 49 luoghi (7 gradi 
moltiplicati per 7 colonne), il teatro camilliano, osserva la Bolzoni, “si modella sul 
‘numero della remissione,’” e in tal modo diventa “una guida per l’elevazione a Dio” 
(n. 40, p.184). 

Cid che si rivela alquanto interessante é il fatto che il significato di ogni 
immagine varia in relazione alla casella in cui viene collocata. Con 1’aiuto del codice 
mnemotecnico ideato dal Camillo, l’utente ottiene “la chiave per entrare in un 
complesso labirinto, in cui retorica e metafisica, pittura e poesia, alchimia e 
trasmutazione nel divino, si intrecciano in modo inestricabile” (Bolzoni 18). Le 
figure quindi non solo esprimono e rendono visibile l’ordine del “theatro”, ma 
(strutturando gli elementi sapienziali e “fissando una serie di piani e di 
corrispondenze che riflettono sistematicamente tutti gli aspetti del reale” (Garin, 
Teatri della memoria 4) sono mezzi di gnosi in quanto inglobano e forniscono lo 
spettacolo dello scibile, capace di “trasformare” e di “trasformarsi” (Bologna 22). 
Tali immagini, spiega la Bolzoni, “via via che vengono descritte, e ordinatamente 
accostate le une alle altre, vogliono imprimersi nella nostra mente per trasformarsi e 
trasformarla, cosi da guidarci entro il gioco cosmico della metamorfosi, della 
‘trasmutazione’ universale” (18-19; della stessa cfr. il cap. L’arte della metamorfosi: 
eloquenza e alchimia nel “De transmutazione,” II teatro della memoria 1-12). Nello 
spettacolo del cosmo camilliano, aggiunge com acume la studiosa, si avverte “un 
rapporto profondo tra unita e molteplicita, fra identita e differenza, un cosmo in cui. . 
. tutto é in tutto” (26-27). 


Italian Bookshelf 365 


Il Tiraboschi (il quale insinu6 che lo stesso Camillo non sapeva cosa intendesse 
per teatro (Bolzoni, J! teatro della memoria 59) avrebbe apprezzato molto gli studi 
penetranti della Bolzoni, e quindi la conclusione a cui giunge nell’ampio saggio 
premesso all’/dea del theatro: “Galleria di immagini, rassegna di miti disponibili al 
gioco dell’interpretazione, macchina capace di produrre testi, strumento per captare i 
segreti del divino e dell’anima, tutto questo — e di meno, e di pit di questo — é il 
teatro del Camillo” (34). 


Salvatore Cappelletti Providence College 


Kenneth R. Bartlett, Konrad Eisenbichler, and Janice Liedl, eds. 
Love and Death in the Renaissance. Dovehouse Studies in 
Literature, 3. Ottawa: Dovehouse Editions, 1991. Pp. x + 219. 


The publications of learned proceedings seldom have much focus, but this one hangs 
together better than most. “Love and Death in the Renaissance” had been the 
announced theme of the 1990 meeting of the Renaissance Society of America in 
Toronto, and although many of the papers presented at the time had little to do with 
the theme, the editors of this volume have accepted only pertinent ones. One or two 
authors have been somewhat strained to include both love and death in their 
discussions, but most tie the two together convincingly. 

Of the thirteen essays, three deal principally with Italian material, and a fourth 
gives attention to Italian sources. William R. Bowen studies Ficino’s conception of 
love as "master of all the arts,” finding this conception to be “a key to the unity and 
coherence of Ficino’s world view” (51). He focuses on the philosopher’s speculations 
about “love” or “affinity” between certain numbers and between certain musical 
notes, seeing these speculations as anticipatory of later harmonic science. Following 
recent theory about the importance of literary “frames,” Olga Zorzi Pugliese looks at 
the functions of love and death as frames in the Cortegiano (135-44). The 
consciousness of mortality, with nostalgia for the court of Urbino in the early years 
of the century, provides the principal frame of the work, while “Castiglione’s whole 
treatment of spiritual love is framed by resistance, irony and skepticism” (141). The 
lasting impression from Castiglione’s work is one of pessimism, rather than the 
exultant optimism expressed in Bembo’s exposition of platonic love. Nancy K. Ruff 
presents the Dido episode of the Aeneid as a major inspiration for several of 
Petrarch’s love poems (145-62). Dido’s despair on the departure of Aeneas is seen as 
partly analogous to that of the lovesick Trecento poet, with the capital difference that 
the Christian faith offers the latter an alternative to suicide. Ruff sees significance in 
the fact that reminiscences of Dido’s lament are found at nearly equidistant points of 
the “In Vita” section of the Canzoniere. The course of her argument includes a number 
of interesting quotations from Renaissance commentators of Vergil and Petrarch. In 
writing about neoplatonic love in Cervantes’ late saint’s play El rufidn dichoso (1- 
16), Ellen M. Anderson gives attention to the influences of Gli asolani and the 
Cortegiano on the writer’s early work La galatea, arguing, however, that he 
progresses beyond imitation in the later Rufidn. 


366 Italian Bookshelf 


A number of essays primarily concern English letters. Two, by Alan Levitan and 
Bart Westerweel, look at Shakespeare’s Antony and Cleopatra, the former discerning 
a difference of meter or “music” in the speeches of Romans and Egyptians (73-94), 
and the latter seeing in the secondary character Eros “the dramatic focus of a world of 
ideas” (179), including love and death. Ronald A. Horton interprets the allegory of 
the Garden of Adonis in Spenser’s Faerie Queene as an attempt to reconcile love and 
reason (61-72). Linda Phyllis Austern focuses on the Orpheus myth in “Love, Death 
and Ideas of Music in the English Renaissance” (17-36). Margaret Makesell finds 
“Renaissance uncertainties about women, love, and marriage” (129) in Juan Luis 
Vives’ Instruction of a Christian Woman, dedicated to Henry VIII’s first wife 
Catherine of Aragon and very popular in its English editions. 

Four essays are concerned mainly with French literature. Daniel Martin’s 
“Mercure, dieu de l’amour et de la mort dans les Essais de Montaigne” is the hard-to- 
follow examination of a mnemonic device called a “Théatre de la Mémoire” that was 
supposedly used in the Essais (95-112). A number of charts are adduced to show that 
the théatre is organized according to a mythological pantheon in which Mercury has a 
particularly significant place. Donald Beecher analyzes discussions of erotic 
melancholy in André Dulaurens’ 1597 vernacular medical treatise Discours de la 
conservation de la veiie, des maladies mélancholiques, des catarrhes, et de la vieillesse 
(37-50). Gerhild Scholz Williams compares the “death of love” in the medieval 
French prose romance Mélusine and in the 1587 German Dr. Faustus (183-198), both 
of whose protagonists “end violently because they lose or forfeit their claim to 
forgiving and overpowering love” (193). Finally, Colette Winn looks 
sympathetically and perceptively at Marguerite de Navarre’s long religious poem La 
navire, written to express and relieve her grief at the death of her beloved brother 
King Francis I. For Marguerite, finally, “l’amour humain n’est en fait qu’une étape de 
notre rencontre avec Dieu et c’est la mort qui permet la supréme rencontre” (209). 
Mrs. Winn draws upon Maurice Blanchot’s conception of écriture in analyzing 
Marguerite’s motives and experience in writing the poem. In the end, “l’acte 
d’écriture cesse d’étre protestation pour devenir priére, recouvrant ainsi sa puissance 
salvatrice” (213). 

While it is not likely that all the essays in this volume will interest any one 
scholar, most Renaissance specialists, including Italianists, can profit from several 
of them. 

Bonner Mitchell, University of Missouri-Columbia 


Antonio Stauble. “Parlar per lettera”. Il pedante nella commedia del 
Cinquecento e altri saggi sul teatro rinascimentale. Roma: Bulzoni 
Editore, 1991. Pp. 230. 


Il libro “Parlar per lettera” di Antonio Stéuble comprende un lungo saggio inedito 
(130 pagine) sulla figura del pedante nella commedia del Cinquecento, e altri cinque 
Saggi gia pubblicati in altre sedi, ma riproposti qui, riveduti ed aggiornati. Non si 
creda pero che le varie parti del libro siano semplicemente giustapposte: Stduble, 
infatti, costruisce la sua prospettiva critica sul teatro del Quattro e Cinquecento 
attraverso vari stadi di ricerca, e perviene, in questo suo ultimo lavoro, a darci un 


Italian Bookshelf 367 


ritratto del pedante preparato e, in qualche modo appoggiato, sulla base degli altri 
cinque saggi. II titolo del primo saggio, Parlar per lettera, significa parlare latino da 
parte del pedante, in contrapposizione a “parlare in volgare” (33-34). II linguaggio 
del pedante non é né latino né italiano, ma qualcosa di diverso e di originale creato 
dall’autore (0 attore) per cui latino e volgare si confondono per dar vita a qualcosa di 
nuovo (63). Il linguaggio pedantesco, a differenza del macaronico, é un italiano 
latineggiante (74). Se il pedantesco s’inserisce in una tendenza generale al 
plurilinguismo, é@ soprattutto la funzionalita scenica a caratterizzare il pedantesco 
rispetto ad altre forme di mistilinguismo (“polifilesco” e “fidenziano”, 75). Gli 
spunti comici, i malintesi, gli equivoci acquistano espressione nella dimensione 
teatrale che ha regole e funzioni proprie, secondo quanto si dice nella Poetica di 
Aristotele e nell’Arte poetica d’Orazio (77-78). Il pubblico del Cinquecento capisce il 
pedante, dice Stauble, e padroneggia il suo codice linguistico. La controparte o spalla 
dell’attore — servo o allievo — non afferra, invece, il codice pedantesco. La comicita 
della situazione scenica risiede nello scontro di due codici diversi. I] pubblico del 
Cinquecento ha una certa esperienza teatrale: @ colto, composto di cortigiani ed 
accademici, consci delle componenti culturali del linguaggio pedantesco. L’attore fa 
ridere anche per il fatto che il suo impasto linguistico corrisponde alle aspettative del 
pubblico (79). Il pedante non é un cortigiano (anzi é l’antitesi del cortegiano, agli 
antipodi del nuovo ideale di “sprezzatura” teorizzato dal Castiglione) né un nuovo 
scrittore, come Aretino e Doni, che fanno delle lettere una professione. L’attore 
incarna la degenerazione della cultura filologica dell’ Umanesimo, la fine di un’epoca, 
la crisi che separo la filologia dalla letteratura (113). Egli rappresenta la caricatura 
dello studioso che vive in un mondo che non esiste pil (115). La storia 
dell’intellettuale tra Quattro e Cinquecento si presenta come una curva discendente: 
dall’umanista cittadino si giunge al Cortigiano ed al pedagogo-grammatico del 
Cinquecento. Tale evoluzione é parallela alle vicende storiche della politica italiana: 
dalle libere repubbliche del primo Umanesimo, alle Signorie ed alla dominazione 
straniera. I] pedante nasce (con il Belo e 1’Aretino) fra il Sacco di Roma (1527) e gli 
accordi di Bologna del 1530, in cui Carlo V e Clemente VII sanzionano il nuovo 
assetto politico dell’Italia, cioé l’inizio della dominazione spagnola. 

Il pedante ama far sfoggio della sua cultura superficiale e di seconda mano: uno 
dei mezzi cui ricorre é la citazione (91). Ma affastellare disordinatamente citazioni 
significa ridurre a puro meccanismo ripetitivo il grande principio umanistico 
dell’imitazione degli auctores (99). Accanto alle citazioni il pedante adopera un altro 
espediente linguistico: riunisce confusamente, senza una vera ragione logica e senza 
un vero rapporto con il contesto, una serie di nomi illustri (105). Cosi il pedagogo 
cessa di essere saggio e diventa pazzo (116). Anche in questa ambiguita o 
interscambialita tra saggezza e pazzia, il pedante riflette il clima intellettuale del suo 
tempo (118). 

La commedia é il luogo in cui ci si pud permettere d’infrangere le gerarchie, di 
capovolgere l’ordine istituito: i servitori hanno la meglio sui padroni, i figli sui 
padri, i poveri sui ricchi. Sul piano psicologico la commedia @ una rivincita 
dell’inferiore sul superiore, resa possibile nel mondo fantastico del teatro. Il comico é 
valvola di sicurezza, sfogo, desiderio di rivalsa e, nel caso specifico dei pedanti, 
sempre dei “vinti”, la rivalsa assume il carattere di vendetta, sostiene Stauble (119). 
La contrapposizione tra superiori ed inferiori @ perno del sistema enunciato da 


368 Italian Bookshelf 


Northrop Frye in Anatomy of Criticism dove la Commedia é il mito della primavera e 
della giovinezza. Ai desideri della giovinezza si oppongono coloro che hanno meno 
gioventi’ e pit’ denaro: l’immagine paterna puo manifestarsi per Frye, anche 
indirettamente, attraverso figure che incarnano l’autorita, come il pedante, 
personificazione di un’autorita scolastica. Ma siccome il pedante é 1’intellettuale 
anacronistico, si pud vedere in lui la satira di una deviazione dalla norma, del 
“diverso” del “‘trasgressore”. Nel contesto della commedia a lieto fine, il pedante 
viene espulso, punito come capro espiatorio, messo da parte e confinato in posizione 
secondaria (120). 

Il secondo saggio di Staéuble (A proposito di due edizioni critiche: “I Cantici di 
Fidenzio” di C. Scroffa e “Stravaganze d'amore” di C. Castelletti) serve a mettere in 
rilievo che il personaggio teatrale del pedante é indipendente da quello creato dallo 
Scroffa, cioé il pedante Fidenzio (133). Il terzo saggio (La commedia umanistica: 
situazione della ricerca e aggiornamento bibliografico) mette a fuoco, sotto 
l’etichetta di ““ccommedia umanistica”, un gruppo di opere del Quattrocento, in forma 
dialogata e scritte in latino (147). L’importanza della commedia umanistica é nella 
sua funzione preparatoria alle rappresentazioni plautine e terenziane, alla fioritura del 
teatro rinascimentale (153) ed alla rivalutazione del latino rinascimentale (155), 
anche se la figura del pedante non ha antecedenti nel teatro classico. Nel quarto saggio 
(Dicacitas, Cavillatio, Mimorum Obscenitas: osservazioni sul comico in alcune 
commedie umanistiche), Stauble vede delinearsi nelle farse pavesi (testi umanistici 
con l’intento di far ridere) quella linea aristofanesca del teatro rinascimentale in 
contrasto con la linea plautina terenziana che risale alla commedia di mezzo e a quella 
nuova (181). Il capitolo mette in evidenza come la satira dell’ autorita (establishment 
o semplicemente della cultura, poco sentita nel mondo classico e non teorizzata da 
Cicerone e Quintiliano, ha dato vita, nella commedia umanistica, a personaggi 
originali su cui si baseranno i pedanti ed i dottori del teatro del Cinquecento e della 
Commedia dell’ Arte. I] quinto saggio (Risonanze europee della commedia umanistica 
del Quattrocento) pone il problema della collaborazione teatrale tra 1’Italia e ]’Europa. 
Dice Stauble: “Alcuni umanisti stranieri che si adoperarono per la rinascita del teatro 
classico ebbero contatti con 1’Italia e forse stimoli diretti nella pratica teatrale” 
(189). Anche riformatori, come Melantone e Lutero, favorirono forse il fiorire di un 
teatro su argomenti religiosi, spesso sullo sfondo della polemica confessionale 
(193): 

Il libro di Stéuble é un vero gioiello per gli studi rinascimentali, un’opera di cui 
si avvertiva la necessita nella critica letteraria sul teatro rinascimentale. Scritto in 
modo limpido e chiaro, il volume si legge con interesse e soddisfazione. La 
caratterizzazione del pedante é completa e perfetta in tutte le sue sfaccettature: Stauble 
ha consultato almeno cinquanta edizioni di commedie rinascimentali per le citazioni! 
Con “Parlar per lettera” \o studioso svizzero ci fa capire come ogni ricerca 0 studio sui 
comici della Commedia dell’Arte non possa prescindere da un esame approfondito dei 
personaggi che li precedono, nel teatro del Cinquecento. Come conclusione si 
raccomanda di leggere il libro del Professor Stéuble molto attentamente, senza 
tralasciare una riga, perché ogni dettaglio, ogni understatement, ha un valore 
prezioso di stimolo. 


Mauda Bregoli Russo, University of Illinois at Chicago 


Italian Bookshelf 369 


Elizabeth J. Bellamy. Translations of Power: Narcissism and _ the 
Unconscious in Epic History. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1992. Pp. 261. 


Developing a psychoanalytic account of why epic subjects resist what Althusser 
would call the “hailing” of imperial ideology, Translations of Power reads epic in 
order to address the “complex intersection of psyche and history” (33). Troy’s power 
to disrupt the translation of empire in the Aeneid, Orlando furioso, Gerusalemme 
liberata and The Faerie Queene arises, the author argues, from its repression. 
Beginning with Dido’s murals, Troy is “translated” along “the signifying chain of 
empire” (82) so that there seems to be too much and too little of Troy, the “city not 
seen.” On this reading, epic subjects arrive too early or too late to assume a fully 
conscious place in what is represented as their history. “Troy” does not signify, and 
thus cannot be known, as it falls. Carried along in Aeneas, as it will be in later epics, 
Troy remains “hidden deep within” until retrospectively re-presented in relation to 
new, future Troys — which are illogically (though effectively) measured against the 
Trojan past they belatedly generate. To study the temporal dissonance of the psyche 
in history, the author draws chiefly on Freud, Lacan, Jean Laplanche, and Samuel 
Weber to understand why subjects do not always hear empire’s call. 

Bellamy’s readings extend Althusserian interpellation to the epic, pushing Peter 
Brooks’s claim that “the structure of literature is in some sense the structure of the 
mind” in the direction of what Fredric Jameson calls the “absent cause” of history. 
Each chapter studies how “the gap between history and its representation” constitutes 
epic narrative and its (recalcitrant) subjects. A psychoanalytic theory of romance 
underpins this clash between psyche and historical narrative: building on the work of 
Frye and Parker, the author finds in romance “the narcissistic quest of the (ego) libido 
for itself.” Such libidinal self-reflexivity parries epic’s teleological thrust; 
narcissism, understood psychoanalytically as “the path to the other” which “reflects 
the ego as its own object of interest,” enables a new understanding of romance delay 
(30). The chapter on Orlando furioso, for instance, argues that Lacan’s understanding 
of the letter — which “will be and not be where it is wherever it goes” — offers crucial 
insight into the way that the desire for objects structures the poem’s narrative and 
never fully consolidated subjects. Pieces of armor signify the “loss of the thing” such 
that “both narrative and narcissism” in Ariosto’s poem are “based on a theft without 
return” (91). 

The book’s great topic, however — and its contribution to the debate over how 
to read the social, historical construction of early modern subjectivity — is 
temporality. The Aeneid’s ekphrastic return to Troy, represented in light of the 
injunction to found Rome, resembles Lacan’s ventriloquism of the subject’s 
displacement as its memories are reconstructed in analytic dialogue: “What is realized 
in my history is not the past definite of what was, since it is no more, or even the 
present perfect of what has been in what I am, but the future anterior of what I shall 
have been for what I am in the process of becoming” (46). Bellamy reads Aeneas’s 
two “scenes” — a Troy fled, “held within,” and forgotten and a Troy whose story can 
only be told afterwards — by working between the theory of “primal” repression and 
the theory of “deferred action.” She argues for an unsettling “metaleptic reversal” 


370 Italian Bookshelf 


which undermines the “genesis” of epic’s unconscious: although Troy’s translation 
to Rome “requires” a “‘primal repression,” nonetheless “Troy emerges as a (repressed) 
concept in the unconscious not as prior event, but only after Jupiter’s prophecy .. . 
posits a Rome” that belatedly “creates” a difference between conscious and 
unconscious (71). 

Structured by a “temporal illogic” which robs it of a secure place from which to 
represent (and thus to know) its history, the epic subject, in Bellamy’s conception, 
suggests that much in the relation between psyche and history is not addressed by the 
new historical imperative to contextualize. Several psychoanalytic theorists now 
argue that the theory of trauma is crucial for reading the signifying subject’s 
foundational blindness to its own history (American Imago 48, 1 [1991] special ed. 
Cathy Caruth). Bellamy, too, ends by arguing that epic narrative’s temporal 
disjunctions render Troy “always traumatic” for the subject (253). In neither Freud’s 
work nor in contemporary psychoanalytic theory, however, is the precise 
relationship between the theory of repression and of trauma clear; the problem 
becomes more complex still when the subject is rethought, with Lacan, as subject to 
language. As Laplanche meticulously amplifies in Life and Death in Psychoanalysis 
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1976), Freud insisted that psychoanalysis explain 
why “sexual ideas . . . alone are subject to repression” (30). In Bellamy’s analysis, it 
is Troy that is repressed rather than, say, the mother, by the explicitly paternal 
dictates of empire. The model shifts, by dint of Bellamy’s interest in deferred action, 
from repression to trauma. It is, of course, unreasonable to expect the author to 
“solve” what is perhaps best thought of as a productive, if vexing, problem in 
psychoanalytic thinking. But the problem remains, prompting questions about what 
epic history has to say about the place accorded sexuality in psychoanalysis. How 
does sexuality figure in what can, at times, sound like epic’s urban allegory for 
psychoanalysis’s specifically sexual aetiology of the unconscious? What difference 
does it make, for a political understanding of epic history and for the model brought 
to bear upon it, that a city, rather than sexuality, returns as the “repressed”? Does the 
author think that the “case” of epic history requires a realignment of psychoanalytic 
thinking? The book does confront the problem of sexual difference in several epic 
characters, focussing particularly on the amazonian androgyne. But these local 
readings of sexuality in the epic make one think again about its place in 
psychoanalytic theory: what does epic bring to psychoanalysis or psychoanalysis to 
epic if its “unconscious” is generated by the repression of Troy? I take it to be the 
extraordinary merit, as well as the difficulty, of this book to bring the study of epic 
subjectivity and ideology to such a point of inquiry. 


Lynn Enterline, Yale University 


Juliana Schiesari. The Gendering of Melancholia: Feminism, 
Psychoanalysis, and the Symbolics of Loss in Renaissance 
Literature. Ithaca Cornell UP, 1992. Pp. 278. 


Italian Bookshelf 371 


Phrased broadly, The Gendering of Melancholia constitutes an elegant and extended 
meditation on what the author refers to as “the cultural status of an affect’ (ix); 
namely, melancholia not just as a psychological or clinical term, but as a form of 
“cultural empowerment” whose origins lie in the Renaissance. Within the impressive 
scope of her book, Schiesari has presented us with nothing less than a history of how 
melancholia’s symptoms are embedded in literary and cultural representation. 
Surpassing Klibansky, Panofsky, and Saxl’s landmark study, Saturn and Melancholy 
(1964), Schiesari’s cultural history enables an understanding of melancholia as a kind 
of Foucaultian episteme whose influence is as much discursive as it is clinical. 
Moreover, the conventional charge that psychoanalysis, when applied to 
Renaissance culture, can only be anachronistic is deftly countered by Schiesari when 
she argues that melancholia as a kind of “creative lack,” or mark of a suffering genius, 
has been privileged by both the Renaissance and Freudian psychoanalysis. Although 
Freud’s essay “Mourning and Melancholia” is a clinical analysis of the emergence of 
a superego with a moral consciousness, Schiesari argues that it is more accurate to see 
the Renaissance melancholic as the true “origin” of the superego. Pointing out that 
we are currently embedded in a “great age of melancholia” (2) that had its origins in 
the Renaissance, Schiesari characterizes melancholia as a kind of “politics of lack,” 
one which, from Ficino to Freud and beyond, has privileged melancholia as the most 
“morally superior” of affects. 

In her brilliant chapter on Freud’s “Mouming and Melancholia” (which is a 
major contribution to the commentary by both psychoanalysts and literary critics 
alike on this troublesome essay), Schiesari deconstructs Freud’s fragile and often 
tentatively argued distinction between mourning and melancholia, and proceeds to 
argue that at the point at which the Freudian superego (i.e., the specifically 
melancholic ego) focusses not on the lost object but on Joss itself, then the resulting 
moral consciousness inevitably encodes “higher” and “lower” forms of depression 
that have explicit cultural consequences. The “open wound” of melancholia, Schiesari 
contends, is both castration (i.e., the impoverishment of the ego), and the mark of 
cultural prestige: a suffering subjectivity that is morally superior to the merely 
“depressed” subject. Furthermore, in a boldly original move, Schiesari claims that 
this encoding process has far-reaching gender implications. The “open wound” of 
melancholia is, in the final analysis, a denial of femininity: women are denied the 
melancholic male’s privileged access to loss — i.e., women are denied the suffering 
moral consciousness of the male melancholic and, hence, throughout cultural history, 
have been dismissed as “hysterical” or “depressed,” or they are devalued as 
overwrought, weeping mourmers. 

In the remainder of her chapter, Schiesari seeks an answer to the question of what 
would constitute the lineaments of a specifically female melancholia. Following her 
detailed review of previous theorists of female melancholia (Irigaray, Silverman, and 
Kristeva), Schiesari advances her own theory, moving beyond their focus on the 
pre-Oedipal to argue that female melancholia is a result of women’s problematic 
relationship less with the imaginary than with the symbolic. Female melancholia, 
argues Schiesari, is dependent on the construction of a feminine symbolic that can 
realign depression within mourning and thus serve as a kind of counter-discourse to 
male melancholia. Critics interested in feminist psychoanalysis will most certainly 


She Italian Bookshelf 


want to be familiar with this important new theory of the “feminine symbolic” and its 
relationship to female depression. 

Schiesari begins her historicization of melancholia by exposing Aristotle’s 
classical focus on melancholia’s symptomatology in terms of an explicitly 
misogynist fear of women as the inducers of melancholia. Following in this 
Aristotelian tradition of misogyny, Alain Chartier depicts melancholia as an old 
witch-like hag who “‘castrates” the male into melancholia: a tradition influencing 
Diirer’s famous sixteenth-century engraving of melancholia as a “depressed” woman. 
(Interestingly, Schiesari points out that in the Middle Ages, only the twelfth-century 
nun Hildegard of Bingen was able to theorize melancholia in terms of gender 
difference, interpreting melancholic women not as “the dread icons of male paranoia” 
[143], but rather as subjects whose melancholia is in need of real diagnosis and 
treatment.) 

Schiesari pinpoints the origin of the “cultural empowerment” of melancholia in 
the early quattrocento humanism of Bruni and Salutati, who sought to control the 
“hysterical” (female) rituals of public mourning. She cites Petrarch’s 1373 letter to 
Francesco da Carrara, lord of Padua, calling for the removal of grieving women from 
the streets, and constituting in its “repression” of women’s public mourning a major 
move towards not only what Schiesari refers to as a “defeminization of the public 
sphere” (163), but also an imposition of class difference on melancholia, such that 
mourning was perceived as practiced by the vulgus, while melancholia could be 
appropriated only by the aristocracy. By the fifteenth century the cultural status of 
melancholia was assured. Specifically, it was the philosopher Ficino who 
“popularized” (and, in effect, “‘re-gendered”) melancholia not as a castrating woman, 
but as the sign of (male) suffering genius. Going beyond Klibansky, Panofsky, and 
Saxl, Schiesari argues that Ficino’s recuperation of the figure of Saturn resulted in a 
kind of “platonizing” of melancholic genius that marked the beginning of its cultural 
prestige. 

Schiesari then moves to an important discussion of two cinquecento women 
writers, Gaspara Stampa and Isabella di Morra. She first demonstrates how Stampa’s 
love sonnets recuperate women’s victimization in order to celebrate mourning. The 
poetry of Isabella di Morra, exiled by family and kept like a prisoner (and a possible 
influence on Tasso), mourns the losses suffered by her mother (as opposed to Tasso, 
who, argues Schiesari, only mourns the loss of his mother as loss) and pities her 
brothers who have imprisoned her — thereby carving out a space for female 
melancholia that features loss as something other than a melancholic “creative lack.” 

In perhaps her most elegantly written chapter, Schiesari undertakes an extended 
analysis of Tasso, whose endless fetishizations of loss render him the melancholic 
subject par excellence in Westem cultural history. As the progenitor of a virtual 
“ideology” of melancholia, Tasso continually persisted, unlike Isabella, in 
recuperating loss (or his physical imprisonment by Alphonso in Sant’Anna) into his 
own gain. Identifying loss as the very condition of Tasso’s selfhood, Schiesari 
focusses on his Jl messaggiero, where Tasso compares melancholic madness to a 
Hydra, serving as a metaphor for Tasso’s “endless production of loss that endlessly 
signals a narcissistic gain” (202). In her superb analysis of the Tancredi-Clorinda 
subplot in Gerusalemme liberata, Schiesari demonstrates how Tasso manages once 
again to recuperate the “open wound” of melancholic castration into “the blessed 


Italian Bookshelf 373 


wound of unappreciated genius” (203) through his use of the figure of the melancholic 
Tancredi and his rejection of the castrating threat of female mourning (as exemplified 
by Erminia). 

In her concluding chapter, Schiesari turns both to Shakespeare’s Hamlet, arguing 
interestingly that his melancholic hero may have influenced early 
seventeenth-century biographers of Tasso, and to Burton’s Anatomy of Melancholy, 
where, as Schiesari contends, “melancholia is de-eroticized as the theological and 
historical loss of man’s original closeness to God, of the purity that was his in Eden” 
(246). As a kind of repression of “melancholic eros,” Burton’s Anatomy represents, 
in Schiesari’s view, a major difference between late Elizabethan and Ficinian 
melancholia. 

In a kind of coda to her cultural history of melancholia, Schiesari turns to 
Lacan’s “Desire and the Interpretation of Desire in Hamlet,” perceptively arguing that 
in Lacan’s landmark analysis of Hamlet as an “excess of mourning” what is, in the 
end, “repressed” in his essay are the real losses and real mourning of the two women, 
Gertrude and Ophelia. Thus both Hamlet and much of the psychoanalytic commentary 
on it are prominent examples of how both the Renaissance and psychoanalysis are 
complicitous in the formation of an “ideology” of male melancholia. 

The Gendering of Melancholia represents a major contribution to the growing 
body of work on early moder subjectivity as first undertaken in such books as Joel 
Fineman’s Shakespeare's Perjured Eye, Francis Barker’s The Tremulous Private Body, 
and Catherine Belsey’s The Subject of Tragedy. Schiesari’s book is a stunning 
achievement — both in its ambitious scope and in its theoretical sophistication — 
and is a must reading for anyone interested in the Renaissance and in psychoanalytic 
criticism and gender studies. 


Elizabeth J. Bellamy, The University of Alabama at Birmingham 


Battista Giuseppe. Opere. Ed. Gino Rizzo. Fondazione Credito 
Popolare Salentino per gli Studi sul Salento. Galatina, Congedo, 
1991. 


Il consistente volume della casa editrice Congedo raccoglie le opere di Giuseppe 
Battista di Grottaglie (Taranto), autore di una Poetica inneggiante allo stile barocco, 
attivo come poeta, dottore in teologia ed editore tra Napoli ed Avellino, per circa un 
cinquantennio “a stretto contatto con il cospicuo e vivace gruppo di letterati li 
operante”. 

Il curatore dell’edizione critica, Gino Rizzo, traccia con acribia il ritratto di 
questo vivace letterato, considerato, a giudizio unanime dei critici suoi 
contemporanei, uno dei pit dotti uomini della capitale partenopea in epoca barocca. 

Attraverso |’attento grafico ricostruttivo dell’/ntroduzione emerge una figura di 
intellettuale e di operatore culturale assai sfaccettata. E menzionata infatti 
l’appartenenza del Battista all’Accademia Napoletana degli Oziosi, ove tenne lezioni, 
“diede risposte ai quesiti”, scrisse composizioni e amd confrontarsi con letterati 
aggregati all’istituzione, quali Scipione Errico. 


374 Italian Bookshelf 


Interessante l’ampio riferimento ai rapporti intrattenuti con una singolare figura 
di principe-mecenate (prodigo di favori anche con un importante commediografo 
meridionale, Cesare de Leonardis), Francesco Marino Caracciolo, principe di 
Avellino. 

I] Battista ricopri il ruolo di precettore del giovanissimo Caracciolo (succeduto al 
padre a soli diciannove anni), e fu suo “teorico consigliere” negli anni che corsero dal 
1651 al 1660, cercando di instillare nel “suo nobile allievo l’ideale emblema del 
principe controriformisticamente atteggiato”, con un “cospicuo corredo di prudenza, 
moderazione, avvedimento, munificenza, liberalita”. 

L’/ntroduzione & seguita da una Nota bio-bibliografica e filologica. L’edizione 
critica, divisa in sei sezioni, raccoglie rispettivamente una selezione dalle Poesie 
meliche (dalla prima alla quinta parte), dagli Epicedi eroici e dalle Lettere. Le 
utilissime Jndicazioni esegetiche, linguistiche e onomastiche concludono 
l’eccellente volume che ha il merito di far emergere nelle sue componenti peculiari la 
figura del Battista, “indiscusso capofila” del “panorama poetico meridionale della 
seconda meta del Seicento”. 


Olimpia Pelosi, Suny, Albany 


Glenn Palen Pierce, ed. JI titolo non si sa. Torino: Edizioni 
dell’?Orso, 1991. Pp. XXVI + 90. 


Il titolo non si sa, curata dallo studioso Glenn Palen Pierce, @ un’edizione di un’opera 
di Tommaso Santagostino, che svolse un suo ruolo nella vita culturale della 
Lombardia spagnola della seconda meta del Seicento. Di Santagostino si hanno 
pochissime notizie biografiche: l’autore viene citato succintamente da Filippo 
Argelati nella Biblioteca Scriptorum Mediolanensis (1745) e da Filippo Picinello in 
Ateneo (1670). Pierce si @ servito di notizie tratte dalle dediche di tre commedie, 
nonché dell’Archivio Nazionale di Spagna a Simancas, per ricostruire la biografia del 
Santagostino (VI). Lo studioso ha cosi scoperto in Spagna che, almeno nell’arco di 
tempo che va dal 1668 al 1675, contrariamente a quanto sostengono le biografie che 
lo dipingono come scrittore arcadico, il Santagostino sembra aver trascorso quegli 
anni in un ambiente di confine, occupato in intrighi politici e strategie militari (XII). 

La tragicommedia I// titolo non si sa fu scritta fra il 1674 e il 1675. Conservata 
nella raccolta Corniani della Biblioteca Nazionale Braidense di Milano, l’opera é 
dedicata a Don Martino Fernandez de Cordoba, figura di spagnolo piuttosto incolore 
ma tale da indurre il Santagostino ad occuparsi di interessi militari spagnoli (x). Dice 
Pierce che la commedia II titolo non si sa pud suscitare un certo interesse, nella storia 
del teatro milanese, per la tecnica della ‘“ccommedia nella commedia” (XV). All’interno 
della tragicommedia, infatti, é inserita un’altra commedia, un canovaccio della 
Commedia dell’ Arte molto lineare che occupa tutto il secondo atto: esso lega il primo 
al terzo atto tematicamente per mezzo di un attentato contro il protagonista 
principale della trama generale. L’attentato é la base dell’interazione fra dramma 
esterno e commedia interna (XVI). 


Eccone il riassunto: una compagnia di comici dell’arte giunge alla corte di 


Italian Bookshelf 375 


Teodoro Duca della Morea. Questi s’innamora della capocomica Flaminia e la 
convince a preparargli un canovaccio che si rappresentera in pubblico in un teatro 
fatto allestire al proposito. Il Duca interpretera nella commedia la parte 
dell’innamorato di Flaminia. La donna acconsente e ricambia |’amore del Duca per 
motivi di interesse. Altri membri della corte vengono costretti a partecipare alla 
commedia. Tra questi l’erede Narsete che, sfruttando la trama, cerca di cogliere 
l’occasione per uccidere il Duca, sotto la maschera del buffone Buffettino, ed usurpare 
il potere. Nel corso della rappresentazione Flaminia si accorge della trappola tesa da 
Narsete e, ricorrendo ad un lazzo improvvisato, guadagna tempo e fa sostituire il] Duca 
con un paggio innocente che verra ucciso. I] pubblico, che come Narsete, € ignaro 
della sostituzione, reagisce favorevolmente all’attentato del Duca Teodoro, 
approvando il discorso che Narsete fa sul cadavere di Buffettino. I] Duca fugge di 
nascosto dalla corte insieme a Flaminia che perd si stanca di questo ruolo di 
compagna in fuga e ritorna alla corte, seduce Narsete e ricomincia le sue trame. La 
giustizia trionfa alla fine quando Teodoro, pentito, ritorna, riprende il potere, le 
responsabilita del rango e condanna i traditori a carcere perpetua. 

La tecnica della “commedia nella commedia” si trova applicata nel Seicento 
nell’Amleto di Shakespeare, nell’/llusion comique di Corneille e nell’Impromptu de 
Versailles di Moliére. I] tema trova applicazione anche in Italia (XVII): basti pensare 
al Goldoni nel Teatro comico. Ma in generale il potenziale drammatico del copione 
interno si realizza fuori d’Italia: sara solo con 1’affermazione sulla scena 
internazionale della trilogia di Pirandello che esso ritornera ad attirare 1’ attenzione 
sulla scena italiana. E percid di grande interesse trovare nell’ambito del Seicento 
milanese un’opera degna di considerazione per |’applicazione della commedia interna 
in senso tecnico ed artistico. Santagostino giunge anche a coinvolgere gli spettatori 
nell’azione del palcoscenico. Per il coinvolgimento del pubblico e per 1’indifferenza 
al macchinario teatrale /I titolo non si sa si avvicina moltissimo all’opera teatrale di 
Marivaux, Les acteurs de bonne foix. Pierce sostiene che l’opera di Marivaux e quella 
di Pirandello permettono di apprezzare meglio l’opera del Santagostino 
evidentemente interessato, come loro, al ruolo del teatro nella societa (XXIII). 

Il titolo non si sa & una commedia ricchissima d’informazioni, una verifica non 
solo di quello che sappiamo della Commedia dell’Arte come genere, ma anche di 
quello che ci offrono centinaia di scenari raccolti e pubblicati da storici del teatro. Ma 
in nessuna commedia é possibile vedere un canovaccio del periodo rappresentato in 
diretta, che prende vita sul palcoscenico, eccetto che nel Titolo (e questo va a merito 
del Pierce che ha curato l’opera) in cui regia dietro le quinte e lazzi improvvisati sono 
un tutt’uno. I] Santagostino ha usato l’azione del canovaccio per segnalare un 
momento di transizione storica — la Commedia dell’Arte in funzione d’una realta 
sociale — atto di cui le si é potuto dare credito solo in rarissimi casi. 

L’edizione del Professor Pierce si presenta in una stampa elegante e vivace. La 
commedia si legge con interesse e divertimento. I] Santagostino aggiunge un nuovo 
capitolo alla storia del teatro del Seicento ed alla storia della Commedia dell’ Arte. 


Mauda Bregoli-Russo, University of Illinois at Chicago 


Sebastiano Locatelli. Viaggio di Francia. Costumi e qualita di quei 


376 Italian Bookshelf 


paesi (1664-1665). A c. di Luigi Monga e con prefazione di Albert 
N. Mancini. Moncalieri: Centro Interuniversitario di Ricerche sul 
“Viaggio in Italia’, 1990. Pp. 474. 


Sebbene in questi ultimi trent’anni vari studi abbiano restituito dignita letteraria alla 
tradizione odeporica, ancora oggi manuali e strumenti di lavoro riservano trattazioni 
sporadiche ai viaggiatori o addirittura ne ignorano il contributo. Si tratta di un 
capitolo ingiustamente confinato per lungo tempo ai margini della letteratura 
ufficiale, ma che merita l’attenzione degli storici e dei filologi. Infatti, alla narrativa 
di viaggio secentesca e settecentesca va senza dubbio riconosciuto il merito di offrire 
stimolanti spunti di ricerca sia allo storico della letteratura, per la ricchezza di 
tematiche esotiche offerte a generi tradizionalmente rigidi, che allo storico della 
lingua per i numerosi neologismi apportati nel lessico dai viaggiatori. 

in questa prospettiva che Luigi Monga, con la sua attivita di paziente 
ricercatore e di esperto studioso di inediti, restituisce al racconto di viaggio legittima 
cittadinanza letteraria proponendone la lettura e lo studio. 

La presente edizione consiste nel racconto del viaggio compiuto in Francia dal 
sacerdote bolognese Sebastiano Locatelli tra il 1664 e il 1665. II testo, corredato di 
un’illuminante introduzione e di note, é ricostruito sulle due pit importanti redazioni 
dell’opera, rispettivamente del 1666 e del 1693, individuate in due manoscritti 
conservati presso la Biblioteca dell’ Archiginnasio di Bologna e la Comunale Augusta 
di Perugia. 

A meta “tra il meraviglioso della scoperta e l’antropologico dell’acquisito” (12), 
come sottolinea Albert N. Mancini nella prefazione al volume, “l’opera del Locatelli 
puo dirsi esemplare del nuovo modo di viaggiare e scrivere relazioni di viaggio” (13). 
Infatti, la percezione oggettiva della realta e la comune reticenza a cedere a licenze 
fantastiche e al “meraviglioso” di ascendenza barocca costituiscono della letteratura 
dei viaggi degli ultimi decenni del secolo un capitolo di transizione tra due epoche e, 
in certa misura, un capitolo autonomo rispetto a quella precedente. Animato da un 
nuovo senso di curiosita e di avventura, ma anche da una particolare considerazione 
per le componenti politiche, sociali e culturali del paese visitato, il Viaggio di 
Francia del Locatelli testimonia, dunque, una svolta di gusto e sensibilita dell’intera 
generazione tardosecentesca. L’edizione, curata da Luigi Monga con coerenza e 
acribia filologica, servira senza dubbio da impulso ed esempio a studi futuri sulla 
letteratura odeporica. 

Stefania Buccini, University of Wisconsin-Madison 


Angelica Forti-Lewis. Maschere, libretti, e libertini. Il mito di Don 
Giovanni nel teatro europeo. Roma: Bulzoni, 1992. Pp. 240. 


“Mozart’s Don Giovanni,‘ writes Joseph Kerman, “the man, not the opera — is one 
thing, and the Don Juan idea, myth or archetype is another kind of thing altogether.“ 
(“Reading Don Giovanni,” in Don Giovanni: Myths of Seduction and Betrayal, Johns 
Hopkins UP: 1991). These kinds of distinctions and delimitations characterize much 
of the abundant body of scholarly writing on Don Juan: critics first isolate one 


Italian Bookshelf ST 


manifestation of the figure and then proceed to generalize about his universal 
meaning. Thus, the first issue at hand in Angelica Forti-Lewis’s Maschere, libretti e 
libertini is definition and critical approach. Forti-Lewis defines Don Juan as a literary 
theme, created by Tirso de Molina from several legends and topoi, which then 
develops “con il movimento ondulato and spirale tipico del mito” (15). Forti-Lewis 
refuses those approaches that collapse Juan into one structure, meaning, or impulse, 
such as Julia Kristeva’s characterization of Juan as the “harmonization of” the 
multiple,” or those that view Juan as the personification of one specific myth, such 
as the myth of rebellion, redemption, punishment, death, or seduction, since such 
methods tend to give short shrift to the diachronic nature of Juan’s development. 
Juan’s mythical background is a triple configuration of simia Dei (the 
Trickster/Devil), Eros, the companion and helper of lovers, and Hermes, the clever 
inventive messenger for the gods who was also a conductor of the dead to Hades (33- 
40). Forti- Lewis defines her critical method as both synchronic and diachronic. She 
will concentrate on the progressive permutations of five rather broad thematic and 
structural components that the Don Juan plays of Tirso de Molina, Cicognini and the 
Commedia dell’Arte versions, Moliére, Goldoni, Mozart, Christian Grabbe, José 
Zorilla, George Bernard Shaw, Max Frisch and Dacia Maraini share: 1) Don Juan’s 
status as hero or antihero and how it reflects the political and cultural projections of 
the writer’s historical and literary milieu; 2) the theme of death; 3) the roles of the 
secondary characters, namely, the women and servants; 4) the referential function of 
burla, the buffoonery and mockery that initially represent the mystical side of the 
hero but gradually become synonymous with his rebellion and/or alienation; and 5) 
the theme of food, specifically its exchange between the living and the dead (20). 
The advantages and the limitations of Forti-Lewis’s book are determined by her 
approach. By refusing to insist on one overriding interpretation of Juan, Forti-Lewis 
can and does present a series of more inclusive discussions of the most well-known 
depictions and transformations of Juan which is no small task: the crude Spanish 
trickster turned blasphemer; the hypocritical French aristocrat who seduces more 
through verbal than sexual virtuosity; Mozart/Da Ponte’s amoral and reckless 
epicurean; Grabbe’s tormented idealist and theoretician of love who is redeemed in 
Zorilla’s play; and finally, in our century, the oedipal, impotent obsessive type in 
need of psychiatric treatment. Forti-Lewis selectively returns to her five components 
to show how the changes and developments that accrue to Juan as he traverses time 
and space both derive from, modify and announce the next version that further 
distances itself from Tirso’s prankster. Although changing interpretations are seen as 
“sfasamenti” of the unstable, originary myth, they are primarily determined by the 
period’s Zeitgeist; therefore, the abstract, unlikable Juan of Max Frisch, a writer who 
more consciously exploits the literary tradition, has more in common with Camus’s 
vision of Juan in his interpretive essay than with previous Juans: “. . . il mito nel suo 
movimento archetipico a spirale, continua ad assecondare l’humus spirituale del 
nostro periodo antieroico, materialistico ed ansioso, generando un eroe sempre pil 
astratto e antipatico. I] mito si snoda ed aderisce alla psiche collettiva di ogni era, e 
se prende il sopravvento, lo fa in termini di ansieta borghese che non hanno niente a 
che fare né col Burlador/Caballero secentesco, né coll’eroe tormentato e romantico 
del secolo scorso. Don Juan, nella seconda meta del nostro secolo diventa 
particolarmente adatto per rappresentare dopo gli orrori del secondo guerra mondiale, 


378 Italian Bookshelf 


l’assurdita dell’eroismo“ (182). 

The individual analyses include many fine insights and are cogently presented. 
In the plays discussed, Don Juan belongs to the upper classes; however, Forti-Lewis 
does make good use of the excellent research work done by other Italians, notably 
Marcello Spaziani (Don Giovanni dagli scenari dall'Arte alla “Foire”, Edizioni di 
storia e di letteratura, 1978), and Giovanni Macchia (Vita, avventure e morte di Don 
Giovanni, Einaudi, 1978) to examine the carnevalesque figure of Juan in the 
Commedia dell’ Arte versions in the chapter entitled “Da Firenze a Parigi,” although 
here and elsewhere, critical work is not always properly credited. This problem is, in 
part, related to the approach and goals of Maschere, libretti e libertini. With the 
exception of Dacia Maraini’s play, Forti-Lewis follows a comparative trajectory of 
Juan’s development established by many other scholars, such as Leo Weinstein, Jean 
Rousset and Oscar Mandel, whose work she brings together with her structural, 
mythical and thematic approach. However, her goal of inclusiveness and the lack of a 
centralizing thesis or definition of Juan, however limiting the latter may be, make it 
difficult, at times, to distinguish Forti-Lewis’s voice and position from those she 
includes. 

Maschere ends with a discussion of Maraini’s feminist play Don Juan (1976). 
Forti-Lewis points out how Maraini’s version is a twentieth-century realization of 
Georges Sand’s “pre-feminist” response to the myth of Juan in her 1833 novel Lélia. 
Like Lélia, Maraini’s Elvira refutes the romantic versions of Juan in which he is 
redeemed by a woman’s love. Forti-Lewis concludes that Maraini’s Elvira represents 
“il trionfo della ex vittima”: Elvira is a woman who loves Juan without illusions “pur 
conoscendo tutte le debolezze” (207-08). This conclusion is too narrow and 
somewhat disappointing since Maraini’s Elvira is far from victorious and, as Forti- 
Lewis shows in other discussions, she is not the first woman in the tradition to 
acknowledge Juan’s faults and continue to love him. However, in the body of the 
essay, Forti-Lewis does focus on several instances of Maraini’s original use of the 
tradition in an analysis that invites further study in light of the very information and 
materials she so meticulously documents in the preceding chapters. 

However, conflicting readings of Juan are nothing new for this literary character 
who, for some time, has owed his survival more to interpretation than representation. 
Just like Juan’s cormnucopian hell in Foire versions that kept throwing him back for 
another adventure, Don Juan interpretations seem to feed the flames for more theories 
and discussions on the meanings and uses of the myth/theme/literary structure. And, 
by bringing together a rich variety of Juan representations and interpretations 
between the covers of this book, Forti-Lewis contributes nicely to this ongoing 
enterprise. 


Carol Lazzaro-Weis, Southern University 


Luciano Bottoni. Jl teatro, il pantomimo e la Rivoluzione. Firenze: 
Leo S. Olschki, 1990. Pp. 348. 


Italian Bookshelf 379 


Il secondo centenario dell’Ottantanove ha favorito una massa imponente di indagini 
dedicate a numerosi aspetti del fatidico capovolgimento che sconvolse il continente 
europeo. Naturalmente l’attenzione degli studiosi non poteva mancare di prendere in 
considerazione la dimensione teatrale della Rivoluzione francese, che é stata oggetto 
di un importante congresso internazionale, i cui lavori sono ormai di pubblico 
dominio (vedi Lo spettacolo nella Rivoluzione: Atti del Congresso Internazionale, 
Milano 4-5-6 maggio 1989, a c. di P. Bosisio, Roma, Bulzoni, 1989). Come ha 
giustamente notato Paolo Bosisio, la Rivoluzione francese ebbe il merito di fornire 
“il solido fondamento per la nascita del teatro moderno” e della “odierna esigenza di 
trascrivere in termini di spettacolo ogni occasione pubblica e privata dotata di un 
significato che si intenda comunicare con opportuna enfasi” (ivi, p. 9). Sotto tale 
aspetto, la Rivoluzione francese va considerata, insieme con lo Sturm und Drang 
tedesco, l’incubatrice in cui “le esigenze latenti e solo parzialmente espresse 
all’interno della temperie illuminista trovano il vigore necessario per tradursi in atto” 
(ivi). Ma per farsi un’idea adeguata del fenomeno non ci si deve limitare all’aspetto 
puramente letterario del teatro della Rivoluzione francese. Occorre, come osserva 
Bosisio, prendere in considerazione anche “altri aspetti piu interessanti e 
significativi”, vale a dire le “ampie e variegate componenti ‘spettacolistiche’” del 
mondo rivoluzionario (ivi, pp. 9-10). 

Questa esigenza metodologica é chiaramente presente a Luciano Bottoni, autore 
di notevoli studi teatrali, come Drammaturgia romantica: i paradigmi culturali (Pisa, 
Pacini, 1980) e Drammaturgia romantica: il sistema letterario manzoniano (Pisa, 
Pacini, 1984). Fin dal “Prologo” (7-24) del libro in esame (in parte costituito di saggi 
gia pubblicati in varie sedi), Bottoni insiste, nella scia delle classiche opere di Guido 
Mazzoni e Paul Hazard, sull’impatto teatrale della Rivoluzione francese, che investe 
ogni aspetto della societa. Nel primo capitolo, intitolato “Teatro patriottico e 
dintorni” (25-81), 1’Autore addita la polarita che caratterizza il teatro giacobino e 
post-giacobino: quella fra parola e gestualita, che ebbe la pit alta sanzione nelle 
grandi cerimonie napoleoniche e soprattutto nella famigerata incoronazione del 
Buonaparte a re d’Italia: “A Milano, in duomo, il gusto teatrale dell’imperatore trionfa 
sullo stesso arcivescovo Caprara, che, nel momento culminante dell’incoronazione, 
deve cedere la corona ferrea raggelato da uno stridulo ‘Gare a qui y touche!’” (30). Bot- 
toni dimostra come questo gusto diffuso per il bel gesto compaia non solo in Monti, 
celebratore ufficiale delle glorie napoleoniche, ma anche nel giovanissimo Manzoni, 
per poi culminare nel trattato Della declamazione (destinato a rimanere inedito fino al 
1878) di Francesco Saverio Salfi, di cui ]’Autore si serve per illuminare il teatro di 
Pellico e dello stesso Manzoni. 

Il secondo capitolo, intitolato “La Rivoluzione, la commedia, ]’apoteosi, 1796: 
Bologna e I/I laberinto dei delitti” (83-222), costituisce il nucleo inedito del volume 
in oggetto. E interamente dedicato all’ambiente bolognese e soprattutto a una 
commedia satirica di Luigi Giorgi, intitolata appunto il Laberinto dei delitti (1798), 
in cui tableaux vivants, gesti e parole si sostengono a vicenda in una 
rappresentazione scenica, contraddistinta dal “tema della discesa nel labirinto” del 
male e dall’opposto “tema d’un’ascesa utopica nel futuro” (215), che approda alla 
“laica risacralizzazione della violenza, della quotidianita e della storia” (221). In ogni 
modo, per Bottoni, il bilancio del teatro giacobino é@ negativo: la teatralita insita 
nella Rivoluzione comportava “il deprimente paradosso d’una scena cristallizzata o 


380 Italian Bookshelf 


cadaverica”, per cui si puo parlare di “un teatro senza rivoluzione e una rivoluzione 
senza teatro” (222). 

La gestualita si accampa in primo piano nel terzo capitolo, intitolato “Vigano, il 
pantomimo e la rivoluzione del gesto” (223-330), seguito da una utile “Appendice a 
compendio biografico” (331-334). E infatti uno studio approfondito del coreografo 
Salvatore Vigano, inventore di danze cosmogoniche e di tragedie mute, la cui arte 
venne paragonata a quella di artisti 0 scrittori di primo piano, come Canova, Alfieri, 
Milton, Raffaello o Michelangelo. Le coreografie di Vigano, che dette vita a figure 
indimenticabili come Otello o Mirra, rivaleggiando con Shakespeare e Alfieri, 
sembravano fatte apposta per confermare la validita delle Lettere intorno alla Mimica 
di Johann Jacob Engel, che Giovanni Rasori, ammiratore del danzatore italiano, 
tradusse nel 1820. Naturalmente l’onnipresente categoria estetica del sublime si 
riscontra anche nei coreodrammi di Vigano, che rispondevano ai requisiti fissati da 
Giuseppe Ferrario: “Solennita e sublimita di passioni... sono 1 requisiti emotivi della 
pantomima seria” (315316). Sotto tale aspetto, Bottoni ha il merito di allargare alla 
sfera della danza la presenza massiccia del sublime nelle reazioni favorevoli o sfa- 
vorevoli degli italiani agli eventi scatenati dall’Ottantanove (mi si consenta di 
rinviare il lettore al mio “Vincenzo Monti, la Francia rivoluzionaria e la poetica del 
sublime,” in L’eredita dell’ Ottantanove e I'Italia, a c. di R. Zorzi, Civiltaé veneziana, 
Saggi, 39, Firenze, Olschki, 1992, pp. 81-134). Siamo grati all’Autore che ha saputo 
riproporci questo trionfo dell’effimero sulla scorta di una quantita di pubblicazioni pit 
oO meno rare, come i Commentarii della vita e delle opere coreodrammatiche di 
Salvatore Vigano (1838) di Carlo Ritorni. 

Il libro di Bottoni é anche un valido contributo a quella storia della gestualita 
nell’area italiana, di cui si avverte sempre pil l’esigenza (vedi, per esempio, Nico 
Lamedica, Oratori, filosofi, maestri di sordomuti: per una storia degli studi sul gesto 
fra eta antica e moderna, Cosenza, Pellegrini, 1984). Una storia del genere dovra tener 
conto non solo del teatro, ma anche del folclore e dell’archeologia. Dico questo, 
pensando soprattutto al saggio La mimica degli antichi investigata nel gestire 
napoletano (1832) di Andrea De Jorio, riproposto in edizione anastatica qualche anno 
fa (Sala Bolognese, Forni, 1979) e citato da Lamedica nella bibliografia del volume da 
me ricordato (Oratori, p. 181). 


Gustavo Costa, University of California, Berkeley 


Stefania Buccini. I! dilemma della Grande Atlantide. Le Americhe 
nella letteratura italiana del Settecento e del primo Ottocento. 
Napoli: Loffredo Editore, 1990. Pp. 224 + 15 illustrazioni. 


Mentre ci si accinge a commemorare il quinto centenario della scoperta di Colombo 
viene alla luce, in un momento quindi alquanto propizio della storia d’America, 
l’attento studio di Stefania Buccini sul mito del Nuovo Mondo nella letteratura 
italiana del secolo dei lumi e del primo Ottocento. 

Il volume, prefazionato da Franco Fido, si articola in cinque capitoli: // dibattito 
settecentesco sul Nuovo Mondo: fonti, divulgazioni, revisioni (13-46); Gli alibi 


Italian Bookshelf 381 


dell’ esotismo: il mito, la parodia, l'utopia (47-89); Tradizione e revisione nelle 
storie settecentesche del Nuovo Mondo (91-110); L'’Italia e la nuova America (111- 
162); Epilogo: risvolti ottocenteschi (163-205). L’edizione @ corredata di note 
accurate ed illuminanti, di preziosa bibliografia (207-14) e di tre indici; inoltre, la 
lettura dei capitoli € accompagnata da quindici illustrazioni. Seguendo una prospettiva 
storicistica, Stefania Buccini fornisce una ricognizione rigorosa delle polemiche 
sull’ America che, durante il Settecento ed il primo Ottocento, appare inquadrata tra due 
poli contro uno sfondo esotico: paradiso abitato dal buon selvaggio roussoiano da 
una parte, mondo di demoni e cannibali, di riti e magie, di episodi dell’orrore 
dall’altra (episodi che Leopardi, attingendo sia alla cinquecentesca Chronica del Peri 
di Ciega de Leon sia alla Storia d’America di Robertson, riprende nella Scommessa di 
Prometeo, p. 190). 

Benché 1’America eserciti un fascino esotico sulla societa europea, molti 
intellettuali e missionari settecenteschi continuano a credere che “l’indiano é un 
selvaggio, sia esso cattivo o buon selvaggio, e quindi un soggetto ‘diverso’ che non 
gode degli stessi loro diritti” (13). Non a caso, tale convinzione serve a giustificare la 
violenza dei conquistadores, i quali sono perd condannati dal Muratori nei due 
monumentali volumi de II cristianesimo felice nelle Missioni dei Padri della 
Compagnia di Gesu nel Paraguay (1743). Il grande erudito modenese, pur rimanendo 
nell’opinione dei pit in merito al “benefico effetto dell’evangelizzazione” vista come 
una moderna crociata atta ad indirizzare “i selvaggi sulla via della rettitudine e della 
verita” (20), si rifiuta perd, contrariamente alla tradizionale tendenza gesuitica, “di 
credere che inizialmente ‘gl’Indiani non fossero uomini come noi, ma una specie 
d’Animali fra l’uomo e la scimia, cioé bestie colla sembianza umana’” (21-22). 

L’esotismo degli Americani, come evidenzia Buccini, é fonte d’ispirazione al 
teatro del prolifico commediografo napoletano Francesco Cerlone (Gl'Inglesi in 
America, o sia il Selvaggio; Il Colombo nell’Indie; Li Napoletani in America) e al 
Goldoni che dara alla luce due tragicommedie americane: La peruviana e La bella 
selvaggia. Comunque, piuttosto che idealizzare il mondo selvaggio, tali commedie 
“concedono al pubblico settecentesco un’evasione esotica, entro i limiti e i cliché 
della tradizione teatrale borghese” (65). 

D’altra parte, mentre Pietro Chiari propone un ritorno al primitivismo americano 
quale “antidoto della societa illuministica in crisi” (205), Gaspare Gozzi cerca il 
“paradiso perduto” e addita l’eta dell’oro sia nel Nuovo Mondo sia a Venezia nella 
“vita semplice e naturale del popolo” (52), 1’economista napoletano Antonio 
Genovesi afferma che “i selvaggi non sono relitti esclusivamente dell’ Africa o 
dell’ America in quanto essi sono presenti anche tra di noi in Europa e, addirittura, nel 
reame di Napoli” (50). Tale comparazione racchiude innovazioni importanti perché 
richiama |’attenzione sui “‘selvaggi” nostrani “invitando storici, eruditi e naturalisti a 
non perdersi in ipotesi arrischiate e bizzarre su popoli esotici” (50). 

Secondo Genovesi, osserva con perspicacia la studiosa, “al di 14 di ogni 
idealizzazione primitivistica e di sterili sogni arcadici, soltanto professare la fede nel 
progresso puo in definitiva garantire l’avvento dei secoli d’oro” (51). Difatti gli 
intellettuali italiani, salvo qualche eccezione, nonostante il revival di un miraggio 
primitivistico rilanciato dalla Storia degli stabilimenti europei in America dei Burke 
(Venezia, 1763), nutriscono “riserve verso tentatrici suggestioni primigenie” (53). 
Percid l’idealizzanione del primitivo, il revival del buon selvaggio roussoiano cui 


382 Italian Bookshelf 


approda l’abate Chiari (specie nel suo ultimo romanzo di argomento americano, J 
privilegi dell’ignoranza, 1784) & contro corrente in quanto gli intellettuali italiani 
sono indifferenti, se non avversi, “ad ogni risvolto mitico di un ritorno ‘a quatre 
pattes’” (73-74). 

La lettura diventa maggiormente stimolante nella seconda parte del libro 
(capitoli MI-v) che ha come sfondo l’emergere degli Stati Uniti. E proprio durante il 
tardo Settecento che “la nozione di America, venendo a perdere gradualmente la sua 
connotazione di sauvagerie e a coincidere con la giovane repubblica del Nord, assume 
una diversa dimensione semantica” (94). Tale revisione viene proposta dal botanico 
milanese Luigi Castiglioni nel suo affascinante Viaggio negli Stati Uniti 
dell’America settentrionale (1790), opera che Buccini riassume con acume critico. 
Castiglioni polemizza con coloro (Buffon, De Pauw e Raynal) che hanno considerato 
gli indiani quale “razza intermedia tra gli uomini e le bestie”, definisce “selvaggio” 
sinonimo di “antico abitatore dell’America” (156) ed attribuisce il nome di 
“americani” ai coloni degli Stati Uniti (13). Altro merito di Castiglioni é d’aver 
deplorato il maltrattamento dei poveri neri “che a disonore dell’umanita non sono 
quasi reputati per uomini, e per la pil leggiera mancanza esposti al flagello d’un 
aguzzino, quando il padrone stesso non prende il barbaro piacere di tormentarli” 
(159). Sicuramente pionieristico nel diario del botanico milanese, come evidenzia la 
studiosa, é “l’invito ad una valutazione ‘sociologica’ della Nuova America” (162). 
Tale sollecitazione ad esaminare “la diversita economica, sociale e culturale dei vari 
Stati . . . segna una svolta importante della concezione italiana del Nuovo Mondo, in 
quanto indica una progressiva ‘limitazione’ e ‘chiarificazione’ degli orizzonti 
americani” (161). 

In procinto di raggiungere la propria indipendenza, cid che maggiormente 
entusiasma gl’italiani é la rivoluzione americana che, secondo Carlo Botta (Storia 
della guerra dell’ indipendenza degli Stati Uniti d’America, 1850), incarna “ideale di 
una guerra non per la ‘gloria’ o per la ‘“conquista’, ma esclusivamente per la difesa dei 
liberi diritti dell’uomo e per l’istituzione d’una repubblica pacifica” (182). La Nuova 
America diventa quindi fonte di nuovi miti: esaltazione del “buon quacchero” Penn e 
del mito pensilvano (110), di Franklin (“‘simbolo e difensore della liberta,” p. 123), 
di uomini illustri come Washington, Lincoln, Madison e Jefferson che 
contribuiscono alla creazione del mito della rivoluzione e di un Nuovo Mondo 
sinonimo di liberta e democrazia (129). L’America desta interesse in molti italiani; 
intellettuali come Mazzei e Da Ponte “si sentono investiti da una missione nel Nuovo 
Mondo: il primo di teorico e propagatore delle idee rivoluzionarie, il secondo di 
diffusore della lingua e della letteratura italiana” (163). L’entusiasmo per la causa 
degli insorti non tarda a manifestarsi in letteratura, per esempio nei romanzi 
dell’abate Chiari (La corsara francese della guerra presente, 1781), specie nelle odi 
all’America libera (1784) e nei trattati Della tirannide (1777) e Del principe e delle 
lettere (1786) di Alfieri. Tuttavia, osserva Buccini, per il libertario “l’ America come 
terra di liberta € un’immagine metastorica destinata a rimanere termine di confronto 
ideale e un’equazione risolta solo sul piano psicologico, ma non su quello storico- 
politico” (138). 

Come gia notato all’inizio, suggestioni dell’esotismo americano si evidenziano 
anche negli scritti di Leopardi che, tra le sue letture sul Nuovo Mondo, annovera le 
celebri Lettere americane (1780) dell’economista istriano Gian Rinaldo Carli. Mentre 


Italian Bookshelf 383 


nella canzone Ad Angelo Mai, Colombo “scoprendo ‘un’ignota immensa terra’, ha 
dunque distrutto i ‘sogni leggiadri’ dell’umanita” (189), nel Dialogo di Cristoforo 
Colombo e di Pietro Gutierrez, osserva giustamente Buccini, “Leopardi, astenendosi 
da ogni esaltazione retorica della scoperta, arriva a ‘svuotare’ il mito tradizionale 
della sua sostanza: il Nuovo Mondo non ha altra funzione che quella di sollecitare una 
navigazione per evitare la monotonia” (203). Difatti, come nota Fido, nonostante la 
sua sfiducia nelle ‘“‘magnifiche sorti e progressive . . . Leopardi intuisce invece il 
carattere ancipite del mito che lo interessa, e lo incorpora in un discorso polemico 
non meno attuale, politicamente, delle esaltazioni dei bravi americani” (10-11). 

Sarebbe ridondante dire che il presente libro é@ ricco di riscoperte, di acute e 
straordinarie considerazioni (convalidate da numerose fonti italiane, inglesi, 
americane, francesi e spagnole) che mettono in piena luce il “dilemma” della “grande 
Atlantide”. Comunque, oltre ad essere un utile studio erudito che va letto da ogni 
italianista (n.b. “‘il libro . . . si legge come un racconto”, p. 11), il volume di Stefania 
Buccini é realmente una singolare novita letteraria, e come tale merita anche un 
premio. 


Salvatore Cappelletti, Providence College 


Giorgio Cavallini. Studi e note su Foscolo e Leopardi. Roma: 
Bulzoni, 1990. Pp. 213. 


Questo volume contiene diversi scritti, interventi e schede gia apparsi 
precedentemente e alcuni in parte modificati. 

A proposito dell’Ortis foscoliano l’autore mostra |’evoluzione dell’operetta dal 
primo abbozzo all’edizione definitiva. Vi sono in quest’ultima ampliamenti che 
consentono di vedere un orientamento pit: deciso nella concezione del Foscolo. Una 
delle aggiunte significative é costituita dalle peregrinazioni di Jacopo per 1’Italia, che 
offrono al protagonista la possibilita di evocare in maniera tangibile il proprio amor 
di patria e il senso civico e libertario, presenti, quasi numi tutelari di tale evocazione, 
il Parini e 1’Alfieri. Cavallini afferma che “la novita pit’ importante é@ costituita 
dall’inserimento della lettera del 17 marzo 1798” (17) in cui é contenuto un violento 
attacco contro Napoleone ormai tramontato e “il fascino del supremo eroismo” (18), e 
dove si discute anche il suicidio, il quale mentre nel caso di Catone ha avuto un alto 
valore morale e civile, pud in altri essere un gesto puramente egoistico, come gia 
aveva fatto osservare il De Sanctis. Secondo |’autore, dei tre nuclei che costituiscono 
la sostanza dell’Ortis, amoroso, politico ed esistenziale, quest’ultimo appare il “piu 
suscettibile di variazioni e di approfondimento” (19). Alle radici del romanzo é@ 
l’antagonismo espresso dallo stesso Foscolo “tra la disperazione delle passioni e 
l’ingenito amor della vita” (20). Ma un altro importante elemento di dissidio si 
manifesta nella difficolta di conciliare lo slancio preromantico con la formazione 
umanistica. Cavallini definisce 1’Ortis “libro aperto” nel senso che esso si presta a 
diversi tipi di lettura, e anche perché nasconde i germi di un ricco futuro, offrendo esso 
spunti diversi ad altri scrittori e poeti dell’Ottocento, fra i quali non ultimo Giacomo 
Leopardi. 


384 Italian Bookshelf 


Analizzando le due odi, A Luigia Pallavicini caduta da cavallo e All’ amica 
risanata, Cavallini nota la differenza di tono e d’intensita fra le due composizioni, 
benché entrambe si articolino su uno sfondo di evidente gusto neoclassico. Nella 
prima il poeta appare distaccato, anche se i suoi accenti sono sinceri. Ma dal verso 
non traspare nessuna “confidenza o intimita personale” (29). Quel che sembra 
soprattutto contare sul piano dell’esigenza poetica sembra essere l’aspirazione a 
rendere immortale quella bellezza che la caduta da cavallo ha rivelato fragile e mortale. 
In fondo, a questo fine tende tutto l’apparato mitologico che circonda la figura della 
donna. I] distacco non @ tuttavia completo, perché l’esaltazione della bellezza 
femminile non si compie in quest’ode ad un livello puramente ideale, ma risente del 
personale “amore-sentimento” romantico che ispira di sé la produzione foscoliana. 
Ma questo si fa ben pit evidente nella seconda ode alla Fagnani-Arese, dove si pud 
parlare di una partecipazione emotiva ben pit immediata e profonda. Ecco che il poeta 
assume qui “una sua collocazione accanto a quella della donna... . Egli . . . pud 
intervenire in prima persona e porsi accanto alla donna per conferirle eternita con la 
poesia” (35). I] critico insiste che le odi non costituiscono una produzione di carattere 
isolato, ma che vanno viste entro il pil ampio quadro della complessiva opera 
foscoliana. Una parte abbastanza cospicua dell’analisi delle due odi é rivolta alle 
scelte lessicali e alle presenze mitologiche, le quali perOd non tolgono peso umano 
alla poesia, ma anzi la arricchiscono e la innalzano, secondo un metodo che trovera la 
sua pil alta espressione nelle Grazie: “Nelle odi la realta e l’umanita non sono 
dimenticate, bensi idealizzate e trasfigurate: la bellezza . . . diventa immortale ed 
eterna per opera della poesia, che esalta in essa uno di quei valori, come |’amore, 
l’amicizia e la poesia stessa, i quali soli, per il Foscolo, possono consolare 1’uomo 
delle sue sofferenze e sventure” (40-41). 

La sezione del volume dedicata a Leopardi si apre con uno studio comparato degli 
idilli L’infinito e Alla luna. Prevale l’esame dell’aspetto strutturale e lessicale che 


porta l’autore a concludere: “Nell’/nfinito . . . la struttura é compatta e serrata per il 
carattere di forte tensione intellettuale con cui é sviluppato il motivo di fondo... . 
Alla luna presenta invece . . . una pluralita di direzioni che risponde alla diffusione e 


all’oscillazione della sua linea di svolgimento” (75). 

Nell’ambito della poetica del “vago” ribadita pit volte da Leopardi nella sua 
opera, spetta un posto speciale all’avverbio “forse”, che compare in diversi contesti 
cruciali del discorso leopardiano; ma accanto a questa parola ve n’é un’altra, sostiene 
Cavallini, che assolve una funzione altrettanto importante, ed é la voce “certo”. Essa 
si pone talvolta in antitesi alla precedente, ampliando l’ambiguita della condizione 
umana e rendendo in effetti impossibile il raggiungimento di una risposta definitiva. 
Ma d’altra parte essa consente di impostare una dialettica poetica di rara efficacia. 
L’alternanza di “forse” e “certo” si ritrova frequentemente, ma appare con inconsueta 
intensita nel Canto notturno di un pastore errante dell’ Asia. “La correlazione esplicita 
0 implicita delle due parole” osserva il critico citando Fubini, “pud essere interpretata 
come uno dei modi nei quali si manifesta la tendenza dell’autore ‘a far sensibile .. . 
l’ondeggiamento dell’animo, a rendere i sentimenti nel loro primo formarsi, nella 
loro successione’” (86). 

Lo spazio pit ampio della raccolta é occupato da un’analisi dei Paralipomeni 
della Batracomiomachia, ed é per molti aspetti la parte pit interessante della sezione 
dedicata a Leopardi. I Paralipomeni sono opera assai pili complessa e varia di quanto 


Italian Bookshelf 385 


la trama letterale possa fare apparire. C’é all’interno di essa una vasta gamma di 
sfumature tematiche e stilistiche che la rendono collocabile tra i lavori pit 
significativi del poeta recanatese. La satira politica si appunta principalmente sui 
granchi (gli austriaci) ma anche i topi (i patrioti italiani) sono spesso segnati a dito 
per la loro inconcludenza, la loro incapacita di portare a compimento il loro disegno 
di liberta e di autonomia, anche se per essi Leopardi conserva un senso di partecipe 
umana simpatia. Le rane invece, nonostante entrino cospicuamente nel titolo del 
poemetto, non hanno una parte molto rilevante. Questo mondo di piccoli animali é 
integralmente umanizzato, come appare evidente per esempio nel personaggio di 
Rubatocchi, la cui prodezza esemplare é degna della migliore tradizione epica, e che 
riflette nel suo eroismo “il titanismo agonistico vagheggiato dal Leopardi nelle 
canzoni giovanili” mentre sembra “preannunciare, sia pure in un contesto poetico 
molto diverso, ]’atteggiamento fermo e dignitoso, il pessimismo eroico e 
consapevole che sara espresso nella Ginestra” (97). Lo stesso vale per Leccafondi e 
Assaggiatore, quest’ultimo quasi un autoritratto del Leopardi stesso in quel suo essere 
“tranquillo in sua virtt” (98). 

Emerge dall’opera la netta posizione di Leopardi anche in rapporto alla filosofia 
del suo tempo: egli infatti si oppone tenacemente a una visione stoltamente 
provvidenzialistica, insinuando fra le righe la sua visione della filosofia che “non 
mira . . . a dispensare all’uomo la felicita, ma a rivelargli la verita e, di conseguenza, 
l’infelicita che ne é necessariamente congiunta” (99). 

Importanti sono nel testo le divagazioni dall’argomento principale, divagazioni 
che fanno pero parte integrale del fine poetico e ideologico del componimento, e 
quindi da tenere nella stessa considerazione della trama principale. Particolarmente 
significativo, secondo Cavallini, l’excursus del Canto IV sull’origine della societa 
umana, che presenta un netto rifiuto della posizione tipica degli ideologi della 
Restaurazione, “che ritenevano che l’uomo nasca civile e diventi poi selvaggio”; 
invece Leopardi é convinto del contrario, e cioé “che l’uomo nasce selvaggio e che 
deve lottare contro la natura” (102). 

E tuttavia nell’episodio del viaggio del topo Leccafondi nel regno degli animali 
morti che la serieta e l’impegno del poeta e la sua vasta gamma di toni e di temi trova 
il suo terreno pit fertile e la sua pit felice espressione. Qui compare |’unica figura 
d’uomo in tutto il poemetto, Dedalo, mentore a Leccafondi e insieme alter ego di 
Leopardi, nella sua visione materialistica del mondo. I] regno degli animali morti é 
un’originale creazione leopardiana: in esso non vi sono anime, ma solamente 
cadaveri, in uno sterminato paesaggio di corpi stipati uno contro |’altro. Un clima 
allucinante che pero non esclude il sapiente tocco dell’ironia e della satira: esso “pud 
ricordare certa iconografia medievale pregiottesca; ma si noti il particolare: ‘con le 
mani appoggiate a un bastoncello’, che . . . da all’insieme funereo una nota ironico- 
icastica pil lieve (si potrebbe quasi dire prechapliniana) di umanizzazione e di 
modernita” (104). L’assenza del riso nel mondo dei morti @ un altro tocco di 
consumata vis poetica e introduce un altro elemento nel quadro gia complesso 
dell’oltremondo leopardiano. 

Interessante il raffronto tra i Paralipomeni e il Dialogo di Tristano e di un amico, 
dove Cavallini riscontra il medesimo spirito anticonformista, la medesima amara 
consapevolezza, la stessa sete di verita cruda ed essenziale, la stessa fermezza di 
propositi: “anche nella favola satirica dei Paralipomeni pulsa in maniera vitale 


386 Italian Bookshelf 


qualche aspetto della moralita inattuale di Tristano-Leopardi: vista in questa luce, 
l’opera oltrepassa il suo tempo, rendendo anguste o caduche le interpretazioni tardo- 
ottocentesche che scorgevano nelle vicende di Topaia precise allusioni a fatti e a 
personaggi dell’epoca in cui visse il Leopardi, e pud essere ancora letta e sentita come 
contemporanea” (109). Per quanto riguarda le presenze letterarie nel poemetto, 
Cavallini cita Ariosto, Tasso, il Byron del Don Juan e anche il Casti degli Animali 
parlanti, sottolineando perd in ogni caso |’unicita dell’esito leopardiano. 

Nell’opera leopardiana compaiono abbastanza frequentemente figure di persone 
umili, artigiani, lavoratori che introducono una nota di freschezza e incarnano un 
ideale di operosita che costituisce un filone molto importante della filosofia sociale 
leopardiana, come dimostra anche la famosa lettera scritta dal poeta dopo la sua visita 
al sepolcro del Tasso nella chiesa di S. Onofrio sul Gianicolo. Secondo Cavallini la 
conclusione della lettera “‘testimonia 1’attenzione del Leopardi al mondo del lavoro, 
contrapposto per la sua utilita all’ozio e alla dissipazione dominanti . . .” (121). 

Sul tema dell’“‘attualita” di Leopardi e della sua presenza nel nostro tempo, 
Cavallini traccia una rapida panoramica delle componenti leopardiane nei nostri 
maggiori poeti contemporanei e conclude che la sostanza del leopardismo pit 
autentico consiste nella “rinuncia . . . a ogni illusione antropocentrica, la sua 
consapevolezza di trovarsi in un mondo estraneo e ignoto nonostante le spiegazioni 
fornite dalla scienza, il suo disperato ma lucido interrogarsi sulla negativita 
dell’esistenza e, insieme, il suo rifiuto di qualsiasi consolazione trascendente o 
mondana .. . cid che nella nostra epoca sara definito . . . ‘la terra desolata’ (Eliot) e ‘il 
male di vivere’ (Montale)” (131). 

In conclusione, é proprio |’inattualita di Leopardi a farne un poeta attuale, nel 
suo antagonismo coraggioso, nella sua ricerca della verita a qualsiasi prezzo, nel suo 
anticonformismo privo di remore e di compromessi, nella sua accettazione del 
“deserto della vita” (134). 


Clavio Ascari, Mary Washington College 


Franco Suitner. Introduzione ai Promessi sposi. Firenze: Giunti 
Ma.zocco, 1989. Pp. 159. 


The first thing that one realizes reading Suitner’s book is its inappropriate title. As 
we all know, the designation “Introduzione a. . .” entails initial exposure to a writer 
or a given text usually at the level of high school study. Such is not the case with this 
book. True, a good share of its contents includes basic material which a student of 
Manzoni knows by heart. On the other hand, biographical information is kept to a 
minimum and the second part of the book (49-155) consists not of plot summaries or 
standard information, but lengthy, analytical pieces which, subjected to editorial 
adjustments, could be published separately, such pieces as “Renzo in viaggio”; “La 
carestia e la politica”; “La scienza di don Ferrante” and “La crisi. dell’idea del 
romanzo.” Needless to say, these essays presuppose a good familiarity with the 
novel. Given the somewhat anomalous structure of the volume, it is difficult to 
ascertain the type of readership this study is supposed to address. 


Italian Bookshelf 387 


A scrupulous critic in many other respects, quite often Suitner takes the liberty of 
reiterating or paraphrasing important positions in Manzoni criticism without 
acknowledging the sources, positions identifiable, among others, with Caretti, De 
Castris, Pupino, and Sapegno. The reader will also be surprised to find little or no 
concern in this study with the diversity of critical methodology which has dealt with 
Manzoni’s work in recent years. Hardly any mention here of the psychoanalytical, 
sociological, Marxist, structuralist, or deconstructionist interpretations of / 
promessi sposi. Suitner’s analysis is marked by traditional exegesis, supported by a 
solid grounding in rhetoric and stylistics, and, above all, a healthy respect for the 
text. By this I mean that Suitner leaves no doubt that, as far as he is concerned, / 
promessi sposi has but one author and his name is Alessandro Manzoni. Sensitive as 
well to the linguistic fabric of the novel, Suitner does not accept the enhanced role 
accorded to Milanese by some critics, including Raimondi and Bottoni (Ad/ 9 [1991]: 
387-90). He writes: “Per l’edizione del ’27 . . . si parla di solito di lingua ‘tosco- 
milanese’, che tuttavia @ una espressione non certo esente da rischi di 
fraintendimenti. Non si deve intendere appunto una miscela di toscano e di milanese 
(che non esisteva nenmeno nel Fermo e Lucia) quanto invece un certo adeguamento 
dell’elemento milanese a quello toscano” (40). And the point that Suitner makes — 
correctly, I believe — is this: “L’edizione ‘ventisettana’ é dunque gia una edizione 
“toscanizzata’ anche se in misura minore rispetto a quella del ’40” (40). 

On another matter, which is also the object of long-standing debate among 
scholars, Suitner is both lucid and convincing: “Su alcune delle grandi dispute del 
giansenismo il Manzoni sospese il suo giudizio, per i motivi onestamente dichiarati. 
Non aderi e non accolse probabilmente la maggior parte dei punti di vista giansenisti, 
ma su alcuni di essi non si pronuncid risolutamente neppure all’interno della sua 
coscienza” (63). And he goes on to explain what Manzoni found attractive in 
Jansenism: its core of moral awareness, its stern spirituality, the insistence on a 
simple, ethically informed life. In conjunction with Jansenism, Suitner brings forth a 
characterization of Manzoni’s work which I find remarkably accurate: “un senso 
fortissimo della precarieta della felicita sulla terra e della debolezza e fragilita della 
condizione umana domina tutta la sua opera”’ (64). 

Somewhat disappointing, in terms of critical depth, is the part of the book 
devoted to individual characters. Thus in the essay on “La Monaca di Monza” the 
focus is less on the inner turmoil, the despairing and vengeful rebellion of a woman 
placed in a golden cage than the complementary factors of such a historical 
phenomenon as “le monacazioni forzate,” which is seen as a reflexive, albeit 
unconscious, expression of the novelist’s unhappy adolescence. In the case of 
Gertrude, Suitner does speak of “‘costrizione fisica e ideologica” in these terms: “una 
costrizione frutto soprattutto di un ambiente sociale e dell’egoismo che pud dominare 
una struttura familiare malata” (99). With regard to Federigo Borromeo, the critic does 
not hesitate to take exception to Manzoni’s portrait of “una figura di potente 
integralmente positiva” and he does so by accentuating facets of the Cardinal’s 
character which were less than enlightened or admirable: “Credeva nelle streghe e 
nella stregoneria e approvava questo tipo di persecuzioni, che si svolsero anche sotto 
il suo episcopato. Non si sentiva di escludere nemmeno l’esistenza degli untori” 
(122). On the other hand, I found the following characterization of the betrothed 
rather puzzling: “Renzo non doveva essere nel romanzo, come del resto anche Lucia, 


388 Italian Bookshelf 


un personaggio troppo profondo o consapevole, e a questa impostazione lo scrittore 
si é mantenuto fedele fino in fondo” (72). What is puzzling here is not so much the 
attribution of “non profondo,” which one can overlook assigning it to the lack of 
formal education, as the qualifying “non consapevole,” which hardly describes Renzo 
at all. The reader of the novel will recall that in the well-known scene at the “Luna 
Piena” tavern ( Ch. XIV) and in the course of various mishaps in Milan, Renzo proves 
to be anything but unaware of the manifestations of evil and social injustices. 
Besides, such a statement reinforces the simplistic argument made time and again by 
Marxist critics who, beginning with Gramsci, tend to regard Renzo’s low intellectual 
and social status as an expression of Manzoni’s deep-seated prejudice and ultimate 
distrust of the working class. 

Most valuable in this book is the recurrence of observations which I found to be 
fresh, mature, and illuminating. Considering what Suitner calls “la bibliografia 
oceanica sui Promessi sposi,” such remarks are not to be underestimated. I cite but 
three excerpts: “I] marcio e la decomposizione dominano il panorama della pestilenza 
ed é forse qui che si fa pil marcato un certo espressionismo, al servizio di una realta 
sconvolta. La morte viene a trionfare sulla vita ordinaria e si accampa su tutto... . 


. 


Quello della peste € un mondo dominato dal basso-corporeo, dalle istanze fisiche 
primarie del corpo, e 1’universo del morbo @ in una qualche misura basato sul 
rovesciamento dei valori comuni” (118). “Nessuno quanto Manzoni é stato piu alieno 
dal credere che la letteratura si produca con altri libri. La letteratura é fatta di realta, 
non di libri. Cosi come la cultura, per quanto raffinata possa essere, non @ una cosa 
libresca. . . . E significativo che Manzoni veda la ‘letterarieta’ come uno dei massimi 
pericoli, forse il maggiore, che corre lo scrittore” (134) “L’esigenza di assoluto 
rigore anche verso se stesso, la tendenza a ragionare corrosivamente su qualunque 
risultato raggiunto, a partire dai propri, erano componenti essenziali della 
personalita manzoniana. In questo non soltanto l’educazione razionalista volterriana, 
ma anche i risvolti ansiosi del carattere giocavano una influenza non trascurabile” 
(150). When one comes across remarks such as these, the temptation is to overlook 
the shortcomings invariably found in a book of this kind, that is, a book that stands 
midway between an introductory study and textual criticism. 


Augustus Pallotta, Syracuse University 


Chris Bongie. Exotic Memories: Literature, Colonialism, and _ the 
Fin de Siécle. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1991. Pp. 262. 


Chris Bongie’s ‘“‘account of the rise and fall of the [idea of the] exotic (3)” is a 
welcome addition to literary studies on Western European colonialism. An excellent 
synthesis of literary analysis and historical research, Exotic Memories examines the 
nostalgia for a primitive Other informing the novels of Jules Verne, Pierre Loti, 
Victor Segalen, and Joseph Conrad during the age of “the New Imperialism (1880- 
1920),” a period described by Bongie as “the moment when nineteenth-century 
colonialism, and with it the immeasurable problematic of modemity, first asserts 
itself as a global phenomenon” (18). By reading these four writers within their 


Italian Bookshelf 389 


respective historical contexts, Bongie reveals how “nostalgia for a cultural Other was 
built into the intellectual configuration of modernism.” Extending his analysis to the 
1960s to include Pier Paolo Pasolini’s interest in the “Third World,” Bongie 
demonstrates the pervasive influence of exoticism on the imagination of Western 
European writers. By showing the similarities between Pasolini’s “neo-exoticist 
project” and late nineteenth-century manifestations of exoticism, Bongie seeks to 
reveal a genealogical connection between the past fin de siécle and our own 
(post)modern condition. 

Chapter One, “An Idea Without a Future: Exoticism in the Age of Colonial 
Reproduction,” introduces the issue of exoticism and establishes the critical, 
historical, and theoretical frameworks to be utilized throughout the book. Bongie 
defines exoticism as “‘a discursive practice intent on recovering ‘elsewhere’ values 
‘lost’ with the modernization of European society” (5). In response to 
industrialization and urbanization, the exoticist project develops as one of the 
strategies by which the alienated individual seeks to recover a wholeness and 
“authentic experience” supposedly available to the members of traditional societies 
before the advent of modernity. While exoticism “attempts to defuse the supposed 
threat of homogenization that mass society poses” (11), “the exotic imaginary” 
proves to be contiguous with, and “indissociable” from, the colonialist adventures of 
European nation-states. Chapter One concludes with a discussion of Gianni Vattimo’s 
distinction between modern and postmodern attitudes toward history. Following 
Vattimo, Bongie attempts to think “in” the end of modernity rather than beyond it. 
He inscribes his analysis of literary exoticism within the context of “weak thought” 
and adopts the term “decadentism” to characterize his position: “Decadentism... 
refers to a form of nostalgia that in no way hopes to recuperate the object it 
contemplates . . . but, rather, probes . . . the past away from which we have, from the 
beginning, declined” (27). 

Chapter Two, “Despotic Individuals and the Fiction of Imperialism,” examines 
the fusion of the modern and the imperial in Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness and 
Jules Verne’s Michel Strogoff. The roots of exoticism are to be found in a historical 
condition characterized by democracy at home and despotism abroad. Here the author 
makes good use of historiographical sources to document contemporary attitudes 
regarding the transition from colonialism to what Bongie calls “the crisis of the New 
Imperialism.” Chapter Three, “The Dream and the Fetish,” continues the discussion of 
imperialist exoticism and discusses the early novels of Pierre Loti. “Loti’s beginning 
intention as a writer is to salvage the Romantic figure of the individual by positing 
him in an exotic land beyond the boundaries of modemity” (80). By the end of the 
nineteenth century, however, as Bongie argues, colonialism has overtaken native 
cultures and has thus undermined them as imagined exotic alternatives to modernity. 
For writers like Loti, therefore, realizing the desire for a primitive Other becomes 
impossible and leads to fetishism. “What Loti encounters in the place of the Other is, 
ultimately, nothing more than a series of signs that point toward that Other’s 
absence” (76). 

Having demonstrated how the exhaustion of the exoticist project is already 
implicit in the work of Verne and Loti, Bongie turns in Chapters Four and Five to the 
revisionism of exoticism in the novels of Victor Segalen and Joseph Conrad. Segalen 
rewrites “the exotic through the antithetical lens of a colonial subject” (143), while 


, 


390 Italian Bookshelf 


Conrad develops a “historicist strategy that was to have allowed him to think a way 
outside of mass society” (171). Bongie finds that Conrad’s valorization of the past 
shares affinities with Walter Benjamin’s concept of allegory. He concludes this 
section with a discussion of the “problematical cluster of tragedy, exoticism, and 
modernity” (182) in Gabriele D’Annunzio’s play, “Pit che l’amore” (1905). 

Labelled “A Postscript to Transgression: The Exotic Legacy of Pier Paolo 
Pasolini,” Chapter Six serves as a conclusion to the volume and analyzes the 
ideological underpinnings of Pasolini’s interest in the “Third World” during the 
1960s. Pasolini’s desperate search for alternatives to the increasingly homogeneous 
culture of neo-capitalism leads him to valorize temporarily the revolutionary 
potential of Third World countries emerging frem colonialism. Bongie traces the 
“before, during, and after” of Pasolini’s neo-exoticist itinerary. These periods 
correspond to the broad trajectory of the poet’s career. The dialect poetry of the 
Friulan period of the 1940s and the Roman novels of the 1950s set the stage for 
Pasolini’s few texts from the late 1950s and early 1960s that deal explicitly with the 
Third World (L’odore dell'India, Uccellacci e uccellini, and Il padre selvaggio). 
Pasolini’s subsequent abjuration of tiers-mondisme in the late 1960s and his deepiy 
pessimistic re-writing of his earlier dialect poetry in La nuova gioventu concludes the 
itinerary. 

Shedding important light on Pasolini’s attraction to what he called “prehistory,” 
Bongie takes the poet to task for his failure to acknowledge the emptiness of his 
exoticist ideology: “Since the age of the New Imperialism, if not before, the exoticist 
project had been patently vacant: the fin de siécle inheritors of this nineteenth- 
century literary tradition had already been forced to confront the inadequacy of 
geopolitical panaceas when it came to treating the ills of a modemity no longer 
limited to parts of the globe but coextensive with it. The exotic was a dream for them, 
as was that ‘single’ individual who was to have bridged the gap between a degraded 
colonial world and its more authentic alternative(s). Only by failing to acknowledge 
the legacy of this superseded tradition can Pasolini maintain that his own ftiers- 
mondiste ideology was ever adequate to ‘la realta storica, la realta, la verita” (218). In 
his later work, however, after the collapse of “his dream with an unmediated contact 
with an Other way of life” (219), Pasolini comes to realize “that perhaps there is 
nothing left now to conserve of that alterity of which he had once dreamed” (227). 
Consequently, according to Bongie, Pasolini’s later writings reveal a “decadentist” 
attitude and point toward a “politics of absence” bent on “the conservation of what no 
longer exists, of what is now irrevocably absent and yet absolutely necessary” (227). 
In this way, the author implies that Pasolini points the way toward, but never overtly 
espouses, Bongie’s own position vis-a-vis exoticism: “The challenge of 
(post)modernity has become one of learning to live with our exotic memories, with 
the ruins of everything that came before us, and that once, once upon a time, seemed 
to offer us a fullness, and a ‘strength’ that is no longer really ours to be had” (32). 


John P. Welle, The University of Notre Dame 


Daniela Bini. Carlo Michelstaedter and the Failure of Language. 


Italian Bookshelf 391 


Gainesville: U of Florida, 1992. Pp. 308. 5 illustrations. 


A book in English on Carlo Michelstaedter is certainly a welcome event since very 
little is known or written about this figure outside Italy. Even in that country the 
critical bibliography is quite modest due mostly to the fact that the author’s major 
philosophical work was a thesis he completed the day he committed suicide at the age 
of twenty-three. But Michelstaedter’s oeuvre also includes an extensive number of 
poems as well as a collection of drawings. To these we should add an Epistolario, 
letters to his family and friends which constitute the raw material of his life 
exemplified in many forms throughout his works. Daniela Bini’s book deals with all 
these different facets of Michelstaedter’s work: the philosophical, the poetic, the 
artistic, supplemented by a strong reading of the letters, in the attempt to shed light 
on the temper of a man whose genius reached out in so many directions at once 
questioning and searching for solutions. At the end of her investigation, Bini 
attempts to answer the most difficult question: Why did the author feel at twenty-three 
that he had reached the point when putting a bullet to his head seemed the only “real” 
solution? 

Bini’s examination of Michelstaedter is divided in three main chapters. One 
devoted to philosophy, one to poetry and one to the drawings. The title of the 
philosophical section, “The Failure of Philosophy,” already announces the debacle of 
Michelstaedter’s search for persuasione, which Bini sums up in the title of the book 
as “the Failure of Language.” Michelstaedter’s thesis, published as La persuasione e la 
rettorica, initially began as an examination of rhetoric in Plato and Aristotle but 
quickly turned into a search for “persuasione”’: an authentic language, truth-oriented, 
devoid of the deceits and falsehoods inherent in conceptual language and associated 
with rhetoric. 

Michelstaedter’s obsession with an authentic language of persuasione, equal 
only in intensity to his rejection and denunciation of the degraded language of 
“rettorica,” leads him gradually to associate it more and more with a non-linguistic 
entity which at different times he defines as the “absolute” and associates with 
“silence.” “He who is persuaded is silent because he has no ‘motive’ to speak” (24). 
As language coincides more and more with “rettorica,” “persuasione” becomes more 
and more abstract. “‘Persuasione’ seems not to belong to men” observes Bini (24). 
She also points out that, as Michelstaedter employs the term, “persuasione” is not an 
abstract theoretical term, as philosophers like Emanuele Severino have suggested, 
but a practical one. The aim of his philosophy, says Bini, “is to live the life of 
persuasione, not to know it.” And she adds, “The problem of being, of persuasione, 
in his view, cannot be considered a theoretical problem, but must remain an ethical 
one” (25). If persuasione is impossible to achieve, those who possess this view, the 
persuasi, such as Socrates, Christ, Leopardi, Beethoven, Tolstoy, Ibsen, are those 
who are conscious of this limitation, of the inherent negativity of a life of 
persuasione. “The persuaso,” says Bini, “is he who is conscious of his limits, of his 
negativity; he who is conscious of the evil in the world” (41). Thus suicide becomes 
the only alternative of the persuaso. Only an act of self-destruction, in fact, can give 
authenticity to the persuaso. As Brianese, quoted by Bini, puts it, “the persuaso dies 
in order to live authentically” (41). 

Since Michelstaedter is unable to define and find persuasione in the world, he 


392 Italian Bookshelf 


looks for it in the letters, in which he pours out his most intimate self while striving 
to find a balance. In the introduction to the Epistolario, Campailla, who is probably 
Michelstaedter’s foremost Italian critic, writes: “the letter is for Carlo a sort of 
magical ritual; it promises to rescue a threatened intimacy, the descent to secret 
depths; the day is organized around it, condensing [in it] its essential meaning” 
(quoted by Bini 69). This oneness that always eluded him he found only in Nature, in 
his long walks and whenever he succeeded in abolishing thought. He describes the 
feeling of seeing Florence by night from Piazzale Michelangelo as “ta wave of beauty 
running through my body. . . . I became one with nature. Nothing in such a moment is 
more of a hindrance than thought. I enjoyed that three-hour walk immensely” (71). 
Nature and man’s basic feelings and instincts ccnstitute what is most authentic and 
true in life. They never lie. “‘Man’s instinct and nature do not lie, they are authentic, 
they are the voice of persuasione” (73). Rettorica, instead, derives from thinking, 
from reasoning, from contemplation, never from Nature. In discussing the 
Epistolario, Bini analyzes the letters to his friends and in particular to Enrico Mreule, 
his intimate friend and, in his view, the only living persuaso, the only authentic 
man; to his family and especially to his mother Emma, whom he adored and who was 
equally devoted to him; and to his younger cousin Emilio, whom Carlo had taken 
under his wings and was instructing in the life of a persuaso. In her discussion of the 
Epistolario, Bini records Carlo’s attempt at leading the life of the persuaso, the 
struggle and the resulting failure of this attempt in the realization of the 
impossibility of overcoming the body-mind dualism, of giving up a contemplative 
self-analytical existence as his friend and mentor Enrico Mreule had done, and finally 
of being incapable of freeing himself from the ravishes of rettorica and the 
inauthentic life to which it condemned him. 

Next, Bini tackles the second of Carlo’s attempts to find refuge in an authentic 
mode of discourse that could give persuasione a more proper and authentic form of 
expression: poetry. “Art alone could be authentic, disinterested, independent of 
contingency. Through art, perhaps, Michelstaedter would be able to give voice to his 
message of persuasione. In order to accomplish this, art must represent honestly the 
absurdity of existence, the gap between needs and their satisfaction” (100). This 
“philosophical poetry,” as Campailla quoted by Bini defines it (109), is written 
concurrently with La persuasione e la rettorica and can only be properly understood in 
conjunction with it. Poetry was supposed to continue the task that philosophical 
discourse could only point to, but could not achieve. The poetic image, the symbol or 
the metaphor, could perhaps capture the moment of absolute truth and authenticity 
that philosophy’s rhetorical discourse could not. In perhaps his best and certainly 
most “cerebral” poem, “II canto delle crisalidi,” Michelstaedter represents through 
the dichotomy of life and death the antithesis persuasione/rettorica as “la vita nella 
morte” and “la morte nella vita.” The song of the crysalis, symbol of transformation 
and becoming, is a poem about the passing of life into death. “The only consistency 
that exists,” Bini explains, “is that of inconsistency: meager consolation for the 
philosopher of Persuasione” (127). By reversing the lines of the first stanza, which 
are reported above, in the last stanza, Michelstaedter wants to portray the 
contradictoriness and absurdity of existence by representing man’s destiny as a circle 
without exit (127). The poem is characteristic of Carlo’s entire poetic production in 
that in his attempt to move beyond the pitfalls of philosophical language the 


Italian Bookshelf 393 


metaphysical message that he conveys is always and only a message of defeat. 
Michelstaedter’s attempt to completely do away with language, with rettorica, makes 
him privilege music as the only authentic artistic form. But since he was no musician, 
he turned to drawing. “Finally, by this means, Michelstaedter felt he could arrive at 
the essence of life” (190). 

In the third chapter, “The Authenticity of Drawing,” Bini discusses Carlo’s 
initial interest in the sketch not only because “the soul of the painter can become 
visible better than in painting” but also because, differently from painting, “the 
sketch is an antirhetorical statement” (192). Bini not only traces the history of 
Michelstaedter’s passion for drawing but discusses well the most important 
caricatures, sketches, drawings and oil paintings by making constant comparison 
with caricaturists and painters of the time like Heckel and Kokoschka. She also draws 
interesting parallels between Pirandello’s concept of umorismo and Michelstaedter’s 
satiric portraits and drawings. 

The last two drawings deserve mention because, as Bini points out, they are “in 
their strange ways” self-portraits. They are drawings of Carlo’s writing lamp, which 
was especially dear to him. He drew it once on the first page of his dissertation. There 
the lamp is burning with two lively flames. When he drew it again on the first page of 
the final copy, there are no flames but only two streaks of smoke. In his explanation 
of the symbolism of this last lamp, Michelstaedter wrote: “The lamp goes out for lack 
of oil. I extinguished myself with overflowing abundance.” “With incredible 
courage,” notes Bini, “Michelstaedter had succeeded in portraying his own death” 
(254). 

In the “Epilogue” to the book, Bini takes up once again the issue of 
Michelstaedter’s suicide on the day he completed the dissertation, which was also his 
mother’s birthday. Bini rejects both the version that the suicide could be seen as a 
moral act (259) and the more tempting one of a “philosophical suicide,” as “the 
supreme enactment of the coincidence between theory and practice, knowing and 
being” or, as Harrison has suggested, “in order to enact persuasione” (259). Bini’s 
own version, which she documents through his letters and additional writings, is very 
plausible and, indeed, persuasive; namely, since the only possible life granted to man 
is the life of rettorica, persuasione as well as the defeat of rettorica can be achieved 
only through silence. Siding with critic Piero Pieri, Bini’s interpretation of Carlo’s 
suicide is that “silence” is the only way of expressing the absolute making inevitable 
“the choice of absolute silence for a message of absolute truth” (267). “There was 
nothing more to be said, comments Pieri” (267). Once everything had been said, 
anything more would have been rettorica. “Plunged into the isolation of his tragic 
discovery Michelstaedter did not only ‘choose the suicidal rhetoric of silence,’ but 
also the rhetorical silence of suicide” (268). 

Daniela Bini’s study of Carlo Michelstaedter is both an informative and 
thorough account of his life and a sensitive, critical reading of his works. But these 
two aspects are not dealt with separately. In demonstrating throughout her study the 
relevance of one for the other, as well as their continuity in life and in death, Bini 
constantly moves from one aspect to the other pointing out the parallels and the 
divergences. Indeed, no other approach would have done justice to this author, given 
the supreme importance that his struggle to eradicate rettorica in the name of an 
always elusive persuasione had on his own life. Bini’s study will be the seminal work 


394 Italian Bookshelf 


on Michelstaedter for years to come and is certain to inspire others to take up and read 
this little known but very important thinker whom Bini in her closing remarks places 
in the same category as Blanchot and Bataille. 


Massimo Verdicchio, University of Alberta 


Rocco Paternostro. La poetica dell’assenza. Roma: Bulzoni, 1990. 
Pp. 176. 


Paternostro raccoglie qui tre saggi scritti in occasioni diverse dedicati agli epistolari 
d’amore di Scipio Slataper, Dino Campana e Antonio Gramsci. Come egli fa presente 
nel breve capitolo introduttivo, benché i tre saggi siano stati ideati separatamente, li 
unisce l’oggetto d’indagine, tre epistolari d’amore del primo Novecento. Ad un 
livello pit profondo, perd, pit del tema, la ricerca metodologica portata avanti dal 
critico da integrita al testo. Ossia, a prescindere dai risultati esegetici raggiunti nelle 
specifiche disamine, l’organicita del volume é costituita dalla tensione ad aggiornare 
e rinvigorire il metodo storico-critico di Binni e specificamente 1’analisi delle 
poetiche: per fare cid, Paternostro recupera alcuni concetti fondamentali dell’opera di 
Roland Barthes e — aggiungerei — per suo tramite, Lacan. Paternostro scrive della 
necessita di “un approccio critico che . . . non tanto parla su di un testo, quanto parla 
in esso, nel modo suo” (143). Nel campo specifico dell’analisi delle poetiche questo 
significa tener presente non solo per chi ma anche perché si scrive affinché si 
riconosca non solo il valore di scambio del testo, ma anche il suo valore d’uso: la 
motivazione interna, conscia e inconscia, dell’io scrivente considerato quale ente 
infrastorico. 

Dal punto di vista euristico, l’epistolario d’amore diventa un banco di prova dove 
si mettono a fuoco il rapporto dialettico tra testo letterario e la poetica dell’io da una 
parte e dall’altra un incontro intermittente e in assenza tra testo e lettore. Nel discorso 
in assenza della scrittura amorosa, la tenue natura del rapporto fra scrittore, visto nel 
proprio hic et nunc, e lettore in divenire, per tramite di un testo spesso 
preterintenzionalmente scriptible — per dirla con Barthes —, diventa un caso limite 
in cui le lettere d’amore forniscono un’indicazione fondamentale della psicologia del 
profondo dell’io scrivente. Nello stesso tempo si constata nell’epistolografia 
amorosa il passaggio dalla prima alla terza persona, operazione che rende il testo 
autonomo dall’ideatore e che trasforma il testo da valore d’uso in valore di scambio. 
Mediatore fra l’io scrivente e il destinatario, il testo amoroso acquista un’accentuata 
polivalenza perché, come ogni scrittura, é una funzione e non oggetto. L’epistolario 
amoroso esiste non come ente autosufficiente ma in funzione delle esigenze 
interpretative ed espressive, consce ed inconsce, dei corrispondenti. Mentre (ri)legge 
il testo, il fruitore cerca di superare i limiti del mezzo espressivo ricreando nella 
propria mente l’inflessione, il tono, i gesti, le intenzioni dell’interlocutore destati 
nel e dal vicario testuale. L’io scrive per mantenere in vita un rapporto 
intersoggettivo reso difficile e problematico dalla lontananza fisica. Scrivendo 1’io 
riafferma e definisce la propria identita, utilizzando a tale impresa |’inventario di tutti 
i suoi “amanti” precendenti: quelle persone e letture che hanno contribuito a 


Italian Bookshelf 395 


condizionare e precisare la sua attuale identita. 

Secondo Barthes é appunto |’apporto di questo bagaglio culturale e personale a 
fare anche dei suoi Frammenti un’ opera collettiva. Il linguaggio dei Frammenti di un 
discorso amoroso & quello di un amante in solitudine il quale riflette sulla propria 
condizione di amante; emana dalla pagina dell’epistolario amoroso |’autobiografia di 
un io che s’ écrit. E cid che si verifica nel caso limite della scrittura amorosa puo dirsi 
altresi per quella letteraria: inerisce al discorso letterario il desiderio “esteticamente 
represso” dell’io scrivente. Dunque, parte integrante dello scrivere é quel tipo di 
transfert amoroso che Barthes recupera da Lacan e discute nella rubrica |’adorable: 
fenomeno che a sua volta evoca il desiderio insistente nella scrittura all’insaputa del 
soggetto. Recuperato allo studio delle poetiche quanto fu constatato da Barthes 
riguardo al desiderio frustrato di s’écrire e la conseguente transitivita necessaria dello 
scrivere, é possibile passare all’analisi dell’écriture, l’uso sociale della forma da parte 
dell’io scrivente. Questa scrittura “grado zero” si colloca fra lo storico e il personale, 
e da concretezza alle scelte compiute dallo/a scrittore/trice nei confronti della societa, 
da una parte, e, dall’altra, nei confronti della letteratura stessa (Sontag). Questo é il 
punto focale dello studio di Paternostro. Per usare le sue stesse parole, il “grado zero” 
indicato da Barthes crea uno “spazio letterario costituito propriamente dall’assenza di 
ogni linguaggio codificato e istituzionalizzato, che é, come dire, la scelta personale e 
storica dello scrittore e, quindi, la capacita che egli ha di tradurre in direzione artistica 
la propria personalissima e storicissima poetica” (12). 

Paternostro incorpora nel metodo storico-critico l’écriture barthesiana ma evita 
il privilegiamento della scrittura su altre modalita della pratica sociale operato dal 
critico francese. Non c’é in Poetica dell’assenza nessun appiattimento della storia 
nella letteratura; perno di quel metodo storico-critico a cui si fa riferimento é 1’analisi 
della situazione personale e storica che determina e condiziona la resa poetica 
dell’ artista nonché la consapevolezza della reciprocita necessaria fra letteratura e 
societa gia messa in rilievo da Gramsci. La consapevolezza della storicita dell’ artista 
letterario esige a sua volta il riconoscimento della storicita del lettore, trascurato a 
suo tempo dall’edonismo di Barthes. Per usare le parole di Paternostro, “poesia é 
entrare in contatto con le cose, abbandonarvisi, occuparsi di questioni vive, del 
proprio tempo, della attualita — sociali, artistiche, ecc.” (31). Ossia, scrivere 
significa reperire uno spazio letterario in cui dare voce alle scelte personali e 
storiche, tentare di colmare 1’assenza — il distacco — fra societa e soggetto scrivente 
da una parte e dall’altra tra soggetto e interlocutore. 

Come egli fa presente, 1’idea generativa del testo, sia letterario sia amoroso, 
consiste nel colmare l’assenza cosicché si viene a realizzare il presupposto 
barthesiano secondo cui “la scrittura @ precisamente 1a dove l’oggetto amato non é” 
(13). L’assenza, dunque, accresce il desiderio frustrato dell’io di congiungersi 
simbioticamente con l’altro: “in questo incontro in assenza — scrive — Si attiva, 
difatti, un movimento dialettico, un farsi azione, un divenire tra il testo (il corpo) e la 
serie di letture storicamente determinate condotte e maturate che nel tempo hanno 
lasciato traccia (ombra) di sé, ma che giacciono impotenti nel testo sino a quando la 
forza di una nuova lettura, obbedendo al richiamo dell’Himeros che é nel testo non ne 
vince |’altra faccia antitetica e opposta, quella del Péthos” (11). Il carteggio amoroso 
diventa per l’io scrivente in primo luogo un modo di affermare la propria esistenza, di 
osservarsi dall’esterno e riaffermarsi esplicitando quanto cova all’interno e in 


396 Italian Bookshelf 


secondo luogo un mezzo di dialogo intersoggettivo. L’oggetto amato pero costituisce 
sempre l’altro da sé: il desiderio di riconoscersi nell’oggetto amato é precluso. 
L’impossibilita di contraccambiare @ un dato di fatto che viene ulteriormente 
aggravato dalla lontananza fisica. “L’oggetto amoroso — scrive Paternostro, citando 
Barthes — @ assente come referente e presente come allocutore. Da tale singolare 
distorsione . . . nasce una sorta di presente insostenibile; il soggetto innamorato si 
trova incastrato fra due tempi: il tempo della referenza e il tempo dell’allocuzione” 
(15) — qui opera il Barthes dei Frammenti, specificamente quanto afferma nella 
rubrica potin: la filologia deve includere due serie linguistiche, quella interlocutoria, 
parlare a un altro, e quella delocutoria, parlare di un altro. 

Paternostro torna a considerare gli scritti di Antonio Gramsci (Critica, 
marxismo, storicismo dialettico. Due note gramsciane. Roma: Bulzoni, 1977) e nota 
il modo in cui ]’assenza coatta allontanava ulteriormente da Gramsci l’oggetto del 
desiderio il quale perdeva gradualmente per lo scrivente connotati e fisonomia. 
Infatti, 1’assenza di Giulia @ di particolare interesse per gli studiosi gramsciani in 
quanto sollecita una serie di problemi ed interrogativi. Fra cui, come Barthes 
sottolinea in termini astratti nella rubrica absence, quella vita “sedentaria” la quale 
determinava in Gramsci un’inversione di ruoli: non nell’accettazione di gender roles, 
ma nell’accettazione della persona che ha bisogno dell’altro/a e proprio per cid é 
nella condizione di invocare aiuto alla moglie che qui assume la figura barthesiana 
della grande muta. Inoltre, ponendo a raffronto le Lettere dal carcere e i Quaderni si 
riconosce un ulteriore livello di lettura degli scritti carcerari gramsciani: sia le 
epistole che gli appunti erano per chi li stendeva non solo un modo di fissare il 
proprio pensiero ma anche di definire la propria identita durante il periodo di 
isolamento. Infatti, prorompe dall’epistolario d’amore gramsciano la volonta di 
resistere ad “un processo interno di lento e inesorabile sfaldamento della consistenza 
e presenza dell’io” (141). Quella volonta spingeva il rivoluzionario sardo a creare, 
tramite le sue missive, una viva immagine di sé per i propri figli e di loro per sé dopo 
anni di lontananza. Anzi, la “volonta di resistere allo sgretolamento dell’io” (155), 
messo in rilievo da Paternostro, colpisce il lettore delle Lettere del carcere con 
drammatico understatement, quando, per esempio, rileggiamo nella lettera di Gramsci 
a Giulia del 25 gennaio 1936 del suo spavento, dopo anni di reclusione a Turi, 
provocato dala vista inattesa di sé in uno specchio. 

L’atto dello scrivere mette lo scrittore — volente o nolente — in rapporto 
dialettico con la storia letteraria e per quel tramite con la storia in atto; quindi 
l’analisi delle poetiche pone in risalto la consapevolezza critica dello/a scrittore/trice 
della propria natura artistica e sociale. Tuttavia la scrittura non é soltanto un mezzo 
autoconoscitivo e a buona ragione 1’écriture di cui scriveva Barthes npropone il modo 
in cui essa opera nei due sensi. I] recupero dell’écriture dirige la lettura non solo verso 
l’esterno ma anche verso quanto risiede anche preterintenzionalmente nel testo. 
L’analisi di Paternostro della “‘poetica dell’assenza” chiama in causa cid che dentro il 
testo tende verso |’altro: altro rispetto allo scrittore nonché rispetto ai moventi 
profondi sottostanti al medesimo atto dello scrivere. 


Joseph Francese, Michigan State University 


Italian Bookshelf 397 


Peter N. Pedroni. The Anti-Naturalistic Experience: Federigo Tozzi. 
Tallahassee: The DeSoto Press, 1989. Pp. 93. 


Peter Pedroni’s monograph of Federigo Tozzi has a clearly stated purpose: the book is 
designed to introduce “the reader to Tozzi’s life and works” (xv). Pedroni realizes this 
objective by offering the first-time student a panorama of a writer frequently 
misrepresented, if not completely ignored, in the United States. While attention in 
Italy has recently intensified, American students remain virtually uninformed as to 
Tozzi’s significance in the Italian literary picture. This study represents a practical 
guide of sorts, one that serves as a point of departure for those who then choose to 
pursue specific areas of interest. Pedroni, who translates all supporting citations, 
also includes an annotated bibliography which facilitates, and indeed encourages 
further research. 

The opening chapter chronicles those events which shaped Tozzi; namely, the 
loss of his mother at an early age, the resulting difficult relationship with his father, 
a passionate affaire de coeur with a family employee and finally marriage, in 1908, to 
Emma Palagi. The accompanying summary of the author’s professional career, one 
characterized primarily by financial hardship and discouragement both in Castagneto 
(1908-1914) and in Rome (1914-1920), nicely dovetails with its biographical 
counterpart. 

The following four chapters expand on this initial overview. Through analysis 
of selected prose works, Pedroni underscores a progression which has Tozzi drawing 
heavily on autobiographical sources for such novels as Ricordi di un impiegato, Con 
gli occhi chiusi and Il podere. This culminates, shortly before the author’s death 
(1920), in recourse to extraneous material for Tre croci, in which he “universalize[s] 
his ideas and emotions in someone else’s story” (64). Pedroni concurrently indicates 
several reoccurring themes, most notably the absence of resolve on the part of the 
leading characters (here highlighted in Jl podere and Tre croci), the frequent animal 
analogies and/or instinctual human behavior (i.e., Bestie, Con gli occhi chiusi) and 
the sense of guilt which pervades much of Tozzi’s writing. Particularly a-propos, in 
view of research now coming out of Italy (Laura Melosi, La legge indefinibile o della 
religiosita di Tozzi in Il ponte, April 1990), are passages which speak to the 
religious undertones in Tozzi’s work, these attributed to the influence of Emma Palagi 
and Tozzi’s long-time friend, Domenico Giuliotti. Also significant, in our view, is 
Pedroni’s attention to dream sequences (here in reference to the collection L’ amore) 
and cognitive perceptions of reality (in Con gli occhi chiusi). Both, in effect, 
distinguish virtually all of Tozzi’s early writing and as such represent areas deserving 
of additional exposure, particularly given the ongoing interest which surrounds their 
interpretation. Finally, on a stylistic note, Tozzi’s lyricism is ascribed to his need to 
“express in writing the feelings and emotions that he could not express orally” (20). 

Pedroni contends, as the title would suggest, that Tozzi’s repudiation of 
Positivism (hence his anti-Naturalism) lies in his inability to explain man’s 
behavior (32). In so advancing, Pedroni appears to embrace Giacomo Debenedetti’s 
appraisal (“Tozzi rappresenta in quanto non sa spiegare”’), one which also connects 
the many psychological and mystical nuances of his prose to temperament (E “un 
pioniere; ma un pioniere istintivo, inconsapevole. . . . in Tozzi la nuova situazione é 


398 Italian Bookshelf 


innata, fa parte del suo temperamento”; // romanzo del Novecento Milano: Garzanti, 
1971, pp 154; 225). This relegates Tozzi’s innovation to the realm of direct 
experience, effectively precluding recourse to outside research. While Pedroni 
maintains, to his credit, that Tozzi “built for himself a strong cultural foundation with 
all the advantages and disadvantages of a self-educated person,” he nevertheless 
qualifies this observation by noting the chaotic nature of Tozzi’s readings (7). This 
essentially conveys Tozzi’s intellectual inconsistency or shallowness, a view which, 
as it turns out, is no longer sustainable. That the author drew on practical knowledge 
is certainly accurate up to a point. That he relied on such material to the exclusion of 
supplementary study is a theory which is rapidly becoming obsolete. Disclosures in 
the area of Tozzi’s cultural formation (Loredana Anderson, ““Tozzi’s Readings: 1901- 
1918,” Modern Language Notes, January 1990 and Laura Melosi, Anima e scrittura, 
Firenze: Le Lettere, 1991) have revealed his solid grasp of prevailing intellectual 
trends, including the work of such forerunners of Freud as Auguste Forel and R. von 
Krafft-Ebing. In all fairness, Pedroni could not have availed himself of a good deal of 
this information, much of which came to light only after 1989. Nevertheless, his 
familiarity with Tozzi in America (included in the annotated bibliography) should, we 
believe, have induced Pedroni to modify a position which seemingly concurs with 
that of Debenedetti. Research presented here by Marco Marchi, in fact, traces several 
of Tozzi’s readings in both psychology and human sexuality. 

Tozzi’s importance does lie in a rejection of certain Naturalistic canons, and 
indeed in the cultivation of a methodology adept at rendering the new literary 
attitudes. Such an approach did not, however, emanate solely from his psyche but 
was, in part, also the product of long periods dedicated to the study of selected works. 
It may very well be that Tozzi undertook such research in an effort at coming to grips 
with personal demons. Whether this be the case or not, his cultural development 
should be given greater weight. While Pedroni does make passing mention of such 
Medieval authors as Catherine of Siena and Cecco Angiolieri, as well as Tozzi’s 
contemporaries Gabriele D’Annunzio and Luigi Pirandello, he does not, for instance, 
allocate any space to William James, a documented Tozzi favorite. This, we feel, is 
Pedroni’s only omission in a critical study which is otherwise a useful introduction to 
the man and his works. 


Loredana Anderson, New York University 


Federigo Tozzi. Ghisola. Con gli occhi chiusi. Trans. with 
Afterword by Charles Klopp. Conclusion by Giose Rimanelli. New 
York: Garland, 1990. Pp. 150. 


At long last Tozzi is available to the English reading public thanks to Charles Klopp 
and his excellent translation of a novel that many consider not only Tozzi's 
masterpiece, but also a foundation stone for twentieth-century Italian narrative with 
its anti-naturalistic tendencies. The history of this translation is also significant 
because it underscores an essential question regarding translation itself. 


Italian Bookshelf 399 


The fact is that what we have is Klopp’s second version of Ghisola. The first was 
rejected by more than one American publisher because of its awkward style; that is to 
say because of its rambling paratactic sentences with an apparently illogical use of 
punctuation and concatenation; that is to say because of its faithfulness to Tozzi’s 
style. Consequently Klopp made the decision to rewrite his translation guided by the 
publishers’ perceived need to make it more readable. The result is an eminent success. 
Tozzi’s thoughts, feelings, ideas are now available to the English reading public in a 
much more readable form than they are to the Italian reading public. In effect, Klopp 
has not only translated Tozzi; he has also edited Tozzi. One wonders what would have 
become of Tozzi if he had had the services of an Italian editor to clean up his Italian 
sentence structure. 

The translator’s problem of conflict between maximum clarity in the language 
into which he/she is translating and maximum faithfulness to the author’s style is of 
course not new. Simply stated, the difficulty derives from the fact that languages and 
the cultures that they express do not correspond perfectly to each other, so that 
faithfulness to an author’s peculiarly cultural style may result in a lack of significance 
in the culture of translation. However, if an author’s style is awkward or illogical for 
readers of his/her own language, should an effort be made to render it smooth and 
logical for readers of the language of the translation? 

This question is crucial in the case of Tozzi because the awkwardness and 
irrationality of his style are the means that he chose to express his awkward and 
irrational perception of life. A reading of Tozzi’s “Come leggo 10” ( Realta di ieri e di 
oggi. Milano: Alpes, 1928. 3-10) should suffice as evidence of the importance that 
he gave to his style and should dispel any romantic notions of a self-educated and 
therefore undisciplined writer. His carefully chosen method of expression 
corresponds to his thought process and to that of his protagonist. Klopp himself 
explains this concept with eloquence in his “Afterword”: “This preference for 
parataxis over syntax and linear over hierarchical narrative structures is particularly 
evident in Ghisola. In this novel Tozzi describes impressions from the external world 
beating on a sensibility too baffled by their impact to be able to impose any order, 
attribution of cause and effect, or meaning on the stimuli that buffet and bewilder 
him.” However, Klopp goes on to explain, “In the interests of readability, I have not 
hesitated to change his original syntax by transposing clauses, altering the original 
punctuation (abandoning Tozzi's beloved but bizarrely employed semicolon, for 
example, in favor of more conventional marks), and introducing a greater sense of 
causality than is always the case in the original” (146). In effect Klopp decided to 
suppress the lack of causality that he recognizes as a central Tozzian theme and 
characteristic of his style, in order to achieve maximum readability. 

This question begs, in turn, the question of readership. Was Tozzi influenced by 
and affected by readership? Was he concerned about reader ability or method of 
reading? In my opinion Tozzi's use of punctuation belies his desire to be read and 
understood in the way he intended. He is clearly not a hermetic who might suppress 
all punctuation. Instead he uses an abundance of punctuation as though wanting to 
enforce an oral reading of his prose. His frequent use of colons and semicolons forces 
the reader to stop and consider each element of his structure in isolation. By assuming 
a certain reader ability and addressing the translation to that ability by altering the 
author’s punctuation and sentence structure, the translator is making a choice that 


400 Italian Bookshelf 


differs fundamentally with the author's choice. Let us take an example from the 
description of the death of Pietro Rosi’s mother: “. . . Aveva gia preparato il suo piu 
bel vestito, e voleva far lesta perché il marito non lo risapesse: ci andava quasi di 
nascosto. All'improvviso, senti chiudersi il cuore sempre pit stretto; ma non poteva 
gridare. Non s'accorse né meno di cadere” (F. Tozzi, J romanzi, Firenze: Vallecchi, 
1973, p. 55). The colon after “risapesse” does not announce a series of items as 
might be expected, but rather it announces an elaboration of what was stated before 
the colon. The author wants to force the reader to pay attention to the elaboration. 
The semicolon after “‘stretto” serves a dramatic purpose. It causes the reader to pause 
at the exact moment of the mother’s death and almost to feel her inability to scream. 
The elaboration in the first instance and the dramatic effect in the second are both lost 
in the translator’s suppression of the punctuation and reorganization of the sentence 
structure: “. . . She had already taken out her nicest dress and was trying to hurry so 
her husband wouldn’t know. Suddenly, unable even to scream, she felt her heart being 
squeezed tighter and tighter. When she hit the ground she didn’t even know it” (53- 
54). In an article published in 1957 Paolo Gonelli characterized Tozzi as torn between 
“le sue tendenze formalmente liriche e introspettive e la sua vocazione al racconto” 
(“Liricita e ‘racconto’ nella prosa di Federigo Tozzi.” Letteratura 5.27-28 [1957]: 47). 
The translator's choice seems to promote the narrator at the expense of the lyricist. 

Since similar observations could be made about the translations of Svevo's 
unorthodox Italian into English, we might conclude that the translator/editor effect is 
not only inevitable, but also beneficial. Certainly Svevo was never fully appreciated 
even in Italy until after he had been translated into standard French and English. 
Charles Klopp deserves maximum praise and admiration for his rendering of Tozzi in 
lucid English. His reward should be the inclusion of Ghisola in every university 
course on the European novel and Italian novel in translation. 


Peter N. Pedroni, Miami University (Ohio) 


Rosamaria LaValva. I sacrifici umani: D’Annunzio antropologo e 
rituale. Napoli: Liguori Editore, 1991. Pp. 249. 


In the last thirty years we have witnessed an unusual revival of D’Annunzio studies, 
mostly inspired by new critical approaches based on linguistic and psychoanalytic 
theories. Critics and scholars, moving away from the Crocean esthetics of “pure 
image,” have undertaken the task of finding in D’Annunzio’s art symbolic meanings. 
This opened the way to the search for ideologies and to language analysis aimed at 
uncovering recondite significations hiding under the surface of his works. We can 
ascribe LaValva’s book, in many ways, to the new modes of critical inquiry. Her work 
could easily have been entitled “D’Annunzio in a new key,” because it moves from the 
esthetic approach to the ideological approach, searching for what the Poet “meant,” 
his message, rather than “how he expressed himself,” the intellectual content rather 
than the artistic form. 

The book, unquestionably, deals with a significant aspect of D’Annunzio’s 


Italian Bookshelf 401 


literary production, never adequately studied by his critics or interpreters. The theme 
of “sacrifice” deserved a treatment capable of bringing out its full symbolic meaning, 
and this is what LaValva has done with great acumen and painstaking accuracy. She 
can justly claim originality for her work and expect an honorable place for it in the 
rich bibliography of D’Annunzio studies. Her intellectual or ideological profile of the 
Poet is indeed an important contribution to the understanding of his position in the 
literature of his time. 

In D’Annunzio, “immolation becomes a means for controlling nature and for 
governing its violence, an essential instrument for every change of power. 
Furthermore, as in all mythological events, the sacrifice signals a renewal, the 
regeneration of vitality, the resurgence of desire. Life springs from death, and the 
success of the hero insures the possibility of creation” (back cover). 

The book examines the various forms the theme of sacrifice assumes in 
D’Annunzio’s works. Of paramount interest is the first chapter, “the theoretical 
foundation of the sacrifice theme” (which has very remote origins in antiquity), its 
function and value, as well as its mechanism. Drawing from a number of authors and 
specialized works, LaValva outlines, with notable clarity, the rationale of the 
problem. “The sacrifice,” she explains, “is a universal phenomenon; it transforms 
and diversifies itself, crosses cultural barriers, and takes on an ever new reality, both 
actual and symbolic, which is understood only by referring to its origins: the 
immolation on the altar — a fundamental rite of all religions” (11). Sacrifices are 
religious acts meant to modify, through the immolation of the victim, the moral state 
of the sacrificer. The immolation marks a new beginning, the return of a new life, a 
new community, the restoration of fertility. The violence of the community is 
discharged on the victim, considered to be the cause of evil. Thus everyone and 
everything will be purified. Serenity and harmony are restored after the sacrifice. The 
theme is central in D’Annunzio, although it may assume diverse configurations. 
Literary “homicides” produce in him a cathartic effect due to his naturally aggressive 
instincts. 

Once the principle and its meaning are established, La Valva proceeds to a 
systematic study of D’Annunzio’s works in the light of the new perspective. The 
other five chapters which compose the book are five steps in the evolution of the 
sacrificial theme. The approach is logical and chronological in character: “The 
natural sacrifice” (Le novelle); ‘““Exacerbatio cerebri: Sacrifice and Eroticism” (/1 
piacere, L’ innocente, Il trionfo della morte); “From the Crisis Hero to the Speech 
Hero” (Le vergini delle rocce, Il fuoco; “The Apotheosis of Sacrifice” (the dramatic 
works); “The overcoming of sacrifice” (Forse che si forse che no). This development 
culminates first in the figure of Stelio Effrena (J1 fuoco), who marks the radical 
passage from “masochism to sadism and from the philosophy of renunciation to that 
of aggression,” and then in the protagonist of Forse che si forse che no, symbolizing 
the rising above sacrifice and the foreshadowing of patriotic heroism. The end result 
of LaValva’s endeavor is a significant interpretive accomplishment, perceptive, 
coherent, and well thought out, which reveals, among other things, a new dimension 
of the Poet: his anthropological and ritualistic tendencies, that is, the preference for 
portraying primitive drives which persist despite cultural progress. The subtitle of 
the work, D’Annunzio Anthropologist and Ritualist, seems, however, a bit far- 
fetched and must be taken metaphorically. But it can be justified by the Poet’s effort 


402 Italian Bookshelf 


to understand the mechanism of his characters’ actions, just as the anthropologist 
endeavors to determine the basic motives of human behavior. Anthropology seems to 
have entered the domain of literature, thanks particularly to the influence of Lévy- 
Strauss and his studies on the relation between nature and culture. Although the 
subtitle may announce the transformation of a pure artist into a man of science, of the 
world of imagination into that of a crude realism, it must be considered simply to be a 
label and taken with open-mindedness. 

The naturalism of the short stories reveals an originary primitivism, basically 
violent and tragic. The mixture of the sacred and the profane, the religious and the 
erotic, constitutes the framework within which the sacrificial victims are cast: “The 
sacrifice, in these first prose productions, is strictly tied to the representation of the 
Abruzzian traditional folklore, to its superstitious religiosity overcharged with 
cruelty” (30). Unlike Verga’s, D’Annunzio’s realism lacks any social content. The 
world he depicts is one of violence, eroticism, primitivism, superstition, regulated 
not by any moral law but by instincts, which end in victimization and expiatory 
sacrifice. The victims are the weak, according to the law of nature. In // piacere, 
L’innocente, and Il trionfo della morte the brutal atmosphere of the short stories is 
intellectualized: the characters are not primitive human beings, living an instinctual 
life; they are refined intellectuals, amoral, nonetheless, and entangled in inner 
conflicts. Their sacrifices are self-immolations, a sort of masochism. With the 
emergence of the superman ideology, sacrificial resignation and self-immolation are 
transformed into aggressiveness. The sacrifice of self is changed to the sacrifice of 
others. The sacrificer, in immolating his victims, finds justification in the nature of 
the superman, whose purpose is to dominate others, turning them into means for his 
will to power. “Between /1 trionfo della morte and Il fuoco there is the fundamental 
experience of the journey to Greece, symbolically related in Maia; the Poet resumes 
his contact with the great tradition, with primordial elements. He begins to be 
persuaded that he can win, in life, by using art as the only weapon of seduction and 
renewal. The suffering which leads to self-destruction and the unhappiness of Giorgio 
Aurispa are replaced by the necessity of violence against others. To the self- 
punishment, experienced in self-criticism, remorse, and tears of conscience, more or 
less genuine, of Andrea Sperelli and Tullio Hermil, Stelio Effrena will oppose his art 
as a luminous instrument for the conquest of the woman and the crowd. A few years 
later the artist, looking for domination, will become aware that he can appeal also to 
the nationalistic theme of the fatherland and its historical enemies.” (92-93). 

Although D’Annunzio had established a tight link between eroticism and 
creative power, he now rejects eroticism, which is the opposite of the heroic life. 
Thus, the transition from naturalism to eroticism to heroism constitutes his itinerary, 
as traced in the book. The protagonist of // trionfo della morte represents the crisis of 
eroticism: he commits suicide to escape his sensuality. The protagonist of JI fuoco, 
on the contrary, is the superman artist who sacrifices everyone and everything to his 
art, to the creation of beauty, which is for him the absolute. Already in Le vergini 
delle rocce realism and eroticism had been abandoned by D’Annunzio. The 
background of the novel has distinct idealistic and symbolic overtones. Claudio 
Cantelmo is very much unlike the protagonist of the previous novels. While his 
moral behavior departs from common morality to follow a superman morality, 
beyond good and evil, the motivations prodding him are not erotic but idealistic. His 


Italian Bookshelf 403 


aim is to establish a new social and political order, aristocratic and elitist in 
character. “Andrea Sperelli, Tullio Hermil, and Giorgio Aurispa carved the path for the 
hero of crisis and uncertainty. . . . Thanks to them Claudio Cantelmo possesses a 
precise plan of action and is aware of the obstacle which could stop it” (108). He has 
rejected all the three maidens, who personify three different human virtues: he must be 
above the human in order to be able to carry on his project. In the end he must accept 
the sacrifice of himself and others. 

In JI fuoco D’Annunzio reaches what was not reached in Le vergini delle rocce: a 
morality of total egoism and the sacrifice of others to the protagonist’s superior 
interest. The old Foscarina is sacrificed to Donatella Arvale, the young and new 
creature promising creative vitality and inspiration for the superman artist, who 
requires constantly fresh artistic stimuli. The sacrifice is cold-blooded and 
remorseless. Stelio Effrena asserts himself in the name of art, which is above life. 
Artistic creation takes precedence over everything else, as though art were the only 
purpose of life and the absolute goal of human existence. The apotheosis of sacrifice 
is realized in D’Annunzio’s theatrical works, drama being the real ground for 
authentic catharsis through sacrifice. The protagonists of tragedy are the scapegoats 
of society’s ills. In D’Annunzio’s theater, however, the sacrifices remain 
unproductive; they never achieve a perfect goal and always end in failure. 

The protagonist of Forse che si forse che no is a new hero, who leaves the 
complications of eroticism and the cerebral complexities of life to others. He is 
strong, healthy, not complicated by the tortuousness which burdens the intellectuals. 
He represents the will to power, the negation of charity, justice, adherence to 
Christian ethics: he is not the superman artist, but the superman national hero. 

D’Annunzio’s intellectual trajectory, which we have tried to summarize, is 
thoughtfully traced and judiciously interpreted by LaValva, keeping always close to 
the historical reality of cultural events. Through the theme of sacrifice — the axis 
around which the entire artistic production of the “Immaginifico” seems to revolve — 
the book encompasses and reassesses, with insight and perspicacity, the whole of 
D’Annunzio’s ideological tendencies. LaValva’s work is scholarly, but always 
reflecting her independent critical judgment. The analyses are precise and the 
observations correct and to the point. At the same time, the approach is sympathetic 
in character, showing the positive aspects and significance of D’Annunzio in modem 
literature. In sum, this is an up-to-date reconsideration of the Poet, viewed from a new 
and original perspective. 


Giovanni Gullace, SUNY-Binghamton 


Paolo Valesio. Gabriele D’Annunzio: The Dark Flame. Trans. 
Marilyn Migiel. New Haven: Yale UP, 1992. Pp. 269. 


Like the many synoptic guides to the life and writing of Gabriele D’Annunzio 
published for the half-centenary of the writer’s death in 1988, Paolo Valesio’s critical 
study of this important author also contains (xiii-xviii) a chronology. The 
“Synthesis of an ‘Inimitable Life’” set at the beginning of his book, however, not 


404 Italian Bookshelf 


only marks out the milestones in D’Annunzio’s life, it also contains a number of 
somewhat startling assertions. Among these are that Le novelle della Pescara is “the 
most distinguished collection of Italian short stories between Verga and Pirandello”; 
that D’Annunzio’s Laudi are “the only direct poetic response in Italian literature, after 
Petrarch’s Trionfi, to Dante’s challenge”; that La figlia di Iorio is “one of the best 
dramas in the history of Italian theater”; that the same writer’s Notturno is “the most 
beautiful long prose poem in Italian literature after Boccaccio’s Elegia di Madonna 
Fiammetta’”’; and that D’Annunzio was (hold on, feminists!) “the most subtle and 
sympathetic analyzer of the female psyche in modern Italian literature.” Such 
statements indicate clearly, I think, that Valesio’s is not just a book about 
D’Annunzio, but a book for D’Annunzio, in favor of D’Annunzio, and — if I 
understand him correctly on p. 13 where he characterizes his critique as “rooted in an 
esthetic and existential commitment” in which “there is also an element of continuity 
with the experience of which D’Annunzio is a model” — perhaps even in 
continuation of D’Annunzio. Where Montale had spoken, in an often-quoted phrase, 
of the necessity for the Italian writers who came after him to “attraversare” or pass 
through D’Annunzio, Valesio has chosen to perpetuate him. 

A feisty, even combative account of D’Annunzio’s accomplishments that ranges 
freely and eruditely over many different areas of modern European culture, Gabriele 
D’Annunzio. The Dark Flame is part of the general rehabilitation of D’Annunzio that 
Valesio has championed for many years now, both in this country and in Italy. At the 
same time, and despite the jacket claim that this is “the first book to address critically 
all major genres in which D’Annunzio expressed himself,” Valesio’s is not an 
exhaustive study of all of D’Annunzio’s writings. Beyond the “Synthesis,” readers 
will search in vain for information on, for example, D’Annunzio’s early journalistic 
writing, or his novel, L’innocente, or his collection of poems, Canto novo. The 
index, indeed, carries only four references even to Alcyone, a work the “Synthesis” 
declares is “the greatest single achievement in Italian lyric poetry of this century.” 
What Valesio is attempting in this book is not a critical profile of his subject but a 
history of modern Italian literary and political discourse as it coalesced around 
D’ Annunzio. 

In addition to an introduction and an appendix containing a difficult to find 
French essay by D’Annunzio on Dante, the book is made up of seven chapters, most 
of which have appeared, though in different form, in print before. The topics treated 
by these chapters include an analysis of D’Annunzio’s importance in the 
development of the idea of individualism that fascinated Stendhal and later flowed 
into Fascism; an examination of his connections with Hélderlin, Greek drama, and 
the idea of tragedy; a discussion of the inappropriateness of the decadent label as a 
means to understand this writer; and some wide-ranging meditations on the links that 
bind D’Annunzio’s work to that of such predecessors as Dante and Walt Whitman and 
such successors as Ungaretti and Pasolini (though not Montale, whose name could be 
said to be the major absence from these pages and from Valesio’s D’Annunzian 
studies in general). 

As these chapter topics indicate, a Nietzschean tracing of genealogies lies at the 
center of Valesio’s critical method. As for his own critical discourse, its affiliations 
run from Italian literature and criticism to the philosophy and literature of ancient 
Greece; the Bible and religious meditation from San Juan de la Cruz to Thomas a 


Italian Bookshelf 405 


Kempis and Thomas Merton; such diverse French writers as Stendhal, Bataille, Genet, 
Rimbaud, Blanchot, and Robert Brasillach; and such Northern European thinkers as 
Jung, Hélderlin, Nietzsche, and Kirkegaard — the last two of whom (both of them 
masters of argument by indirection and provocation!) could be adduced as models for 
this book’s style and general rhetorical strategy. 

Valesio is a novelist and poet as well as the author of important studies on 
linguistics and the history and function of rhetoric, and he seems to have been 
attracted to D’Annunzio both as a “creative” and as a “critical” writer. Like the 
extraordinary Wortmensch that D’Annunzio undoubtedly was, Valesio too places a 
high value on the “effusion of discourse” or “language of solemnity or, shall we say, 
the sublime” that he believes it has been the “great undertaking” of “high-modermn 
writing” to rediscover (73). He also admires D’Annunzio for his willingness, indeed 
enthusiasm for taking risks. By his own account, Valesio’s book is a “semiohistory” 
or “history of the imagination” (5) that is transgressive in the best D’Annunzian 
manner, a work that “transcends every excessively sharp line of separation between . 
. . the political and the literary” (6). At once autobiography, political and literary 
criticism, philosophical and para-religious meditation, and ethnic defense (though 
the avowed perspective is “not nationalistic but rather that of an Atlantic witness” 
[15]), Valesio’s book employs a method of “reciprocal nourishment, or 
interanimation, of the philosophical and the empirical, of the creative and the 
critical” (226). The result can be described, in the term employed by the author’s Yale 
colleague and student of literary influences, Harold Bloom, as a “strong” study of 
D’Annunzio and his times. In terms of both its methods and its conclusions, 
Valesio’s critical and creative analysis may be disagreed with but must be respected 
for the immense learning it mobilizes, the originality of its arguments, and the 
human and intellectual risks that it takes. In this book this scholar puts much of what 
he really believes in on the line. 


Charles Klopp, The Ohio State University 


Franco Zangrilli. Linea pirandelliana nella narrativa 
contemporanea. Ravenna: Longo, 1990. Pp. 221. 


I] titolo di questo volume non pué che richiamare alla mente quella “linea Svevo- 
Pirandello” di cui Renato Barilli si faceva il promotore una quindicina d'anni fa. 
L’intenzionalita del calco non pud essere messa in dubbio, e tuttavia fedelta alla 
formula (anch’essa, del resto, parziale) non implica fatalmente fedelta al concetto. Al 
Barilli infatti Svevo e Pirandello stavano a cuore quasi pill in senso eidetico che 
empirico, in quanto fondatori di una koiné linguistico-culturale capace di liberare la 
letteratura italiana dalla tentazione regionalistica e dialettale e di avviarla cosi verso 
una feconda esplorazione etica della psiche e dell’inconscio. Pid sensibile allo humus 
locale, guidato inoltre da una metodologia pill pragmatica, spinto pit dal desiderio di 
dissodare un terreno ancora vergine che da quello di istituire canoni e edificare sacrari, 
lo Zangrilli non muove da una lettura limitativa dell’opera di Pirandello, e il suo 
orecchio @ quindi aperto a cogliere i pid’ svariati echi pirandelliani nelle pit svariate 


406 Italian Bookshelf 


opere di narratori italiani del Novecento. (Il teatro, a cominciare da Betti e De 
Filippo, non é invece preso in esame.) Ne risulta un ampio panorama storico che si 
apre sul primo novecento di Bontempelli e Tozzi, e attraverso uno studio pit 
minuzioso di Calvino, Sciascia, Bonaviri, Pomilio, Pontiggia e Altomonte, a 
ciascuno dei quali @ dedicato un capitolo, giunge fino ai De Carlo e Del Giudice di 
questo scorcio di secolo. Qui mi sembra che risieda appunto il merito principale del 
presente volume: grazie a una ricognizione ampia, ma anche dettagliata, di un 
territorio non ancora sistematicamente esplorato, esso mette a disposizione dello 
studioso utilissime schede, e suggerisce inediti accostamenti. Qui @ pero anche il suo 
limite. Privatosi intenzionalmente di una bussola, di una linea direttiva, o griglia 
teorica che dir si voglia, lo Zangrilli avanza talvolta un pochino a caso, e accade 
quindi che si limiti a registrare prestiti specifici, senza preoccuparsi di enucleare ja 
regola che li governa, oppure, all’incontrario, che prenda in esame motivi troppo 
generici perché si possa parlare con ragionevole sicurezza di una matrice 
inconfondibilmente pirandelliana. Non c’é alcun dubbio, per esempio, che ordine e 
caos siano concetti chiave nell’opera di Bonaviri e Calvino, come gia in quella di 
Pirandello; ma dai tempi di Empedocle, git: git fino a quelli di Umberto Eco, quale 
scrittore agitato da inquietudini metafisiche non ha meditato su questo dilemma, a 
Agrigento e altrove? Altrettanto si potrebbe dire del tema della maschera o del 
travestimento, cosi importante nell’opera di Pirandello, e che lo Zangrilli ritrova in 
molte delle opere da lui prese in esame, ma che avrebbe potuto individuare con 
altrettanta facilita in chissa quanti altri autori. 

Prendiamo poi il caso di Sciascia. Che lo scrittore siciliano recentemente 
scomparso sia stato, per molti versi, il pit! valido araldo di una certa lezione 
pirandelliana, mi sembra ineccepibile. Qual é tuttavia la tonalita specifica di questa 
lezione? Non sarebbe valsa la pena che lo Zangrilli discutesse, anche brevemente, la 
poetica pirandelliana di Sciascia, che, come noto, almeno agli esordi, é fortemente 
anti-filosofica, anti-tilgheriana, si presenta cioé come una lettura “storica” o 
addirittura “meridionalista” di Pirandello (mi si perdoni ]’ambiguita e l’imprecisione 
di questi termini), agli antipodi quindi di un approccio come quello, summenzionato, 
di Renato Barilli e di tanti altri? Analogamente, non sarebbe stato utile interrogarsi 
sull'indubbia tensione tra le cosidette componenti “romantico-decadenti” del discorso 
pirandelliano, e le inflessioni illuministiche e voltairiane che modulano invece 
quello di Sciascia? Proprio un confronto fra il modo in cui il medesimo fatto di 
cronaca é trattato nel pirandelliano Come tu mi vuoi e nel romanzo-inchiesta di 
Sciascia Il teatro della memoria, potrebbe fare emergere differenze importanti fra 
questi due autori, a dispetto dei prelievi cosi numerosi, dei trapianti di interi organi 
operati da Sciascia sul corpus pirandelliano. E potrebbe allora venir voglia di 
contrapporre ]’immagine abbastanza convenzionale, ma pur sempre illuminante, di 
un Pirandello che si ingegna a svalutare i fatti e il sapere, positivisticamente intesi, 
per meditare e esaltare il pathos che spinge gli uomini a credere, a quella di uno 
Sciascia che invece combatte senza illusioni la battaglia della ragione contro i 
proteici travestimenti dell’avidita, della gelosia, del pregiudizio e della corruzione. 
Peccato che sulla validita di paragoni come questo lo Zangrilli non ci abbia fornito 
maggiori lumi. 

Si potrebbe fare un discorso analogo su Calvino. E indubbio che certe idee dello 
scrittore ligure hanno un profumo inconfondibilmente pirandelliano: cosi per 


Italian Bookshelf 407 


esempio l’apologo del “cavaliere inesistente” e, in particolare, il suo epilogo, 
allorché il degno paladino, venute a mancare la fede e la forza di volonta, diserta la 
propria armatura, né pil vi riprende dimora, benché l'autenticita delle sue imprese 
cavalleresche sia stata nel frattempo accertata. Non é altresi pirandelliano il fatto che 
nel Visconte dimezzato sia proprio ]’indivisibilita giuridica e performativa del nome 
proprio, resa improvvisamente efficace dalle nozze del visconte con Pamela, a 
favorire il rabberciamento di un Io diviso, fino a quel momento, sia fisicamente che 
psichicamente? Ma se dunque l’unita della persona, sia per Pirandello che per 
Calvino, @ etimologicamente una maschera, una finzione della volonta o del 
linguaggio socialmente costituito, peraltro non @ enorme lo iato fra la disperata 
centralita e gravita copernicana di una coscienza che, in Pirandello, si sforza 
inutilmente di coagulare, e il riso lieve di un Io che invece, in Calvino, gode 
ariostescamente della propria infinita permutabilita? Sono il primo ad ammettere che 
opposizioni di questo genere, per quanto utili sul piano retorico e euristico, sono 
spesso pit problematiche di quanto possa a prima vista sembrare. Mi sembra tuttavia 
che se Zangrilli avesse diretto verso di esse la propria lente di ingrandimento, la cosa 
non avrebbe guastato. I] mio fervido augurio é che nei suoi lavori futuri, esaurito 
ormai il compito preliminare di etichettamento e classificazione del materiale, egli 


spinga pili avanti quello di analisi e scavo. 


Enzo Neppi, Yale University 


Maria Di Giovanna. La fuga impossibile: sulla narrativa di Maria 
Messina. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, Napoli, 1989. Pp. 86. 


Il volume comprende tre saggi dedicati alla scrittrice siciliana scomparsa nel 1944 e 
la cui opera letteraria, che abbraccia romanzi, racconti e scritti per l’infanzia, @ 
analizzata nella sua totalita. 

La Di Giovanna parte da un attento studio dei testi e rileva ]’idea-chiave della 
Messina, concretizzata in immagini-simbolo (casa, vicolo, porta) che inquadrano 
“una situazione castrante, scandita da frustrazioni ad ogni livello” (12). Lo spazio 
chiuso non é altro che il suo mezzo epifanico, e l’insistere sulle monotone, ripetitive 
azioni quotidiane scandisce |’inesorabile e triste passare del tempo per le giovani 
protagoniste dell’opera messiniana. 

L’ideologia della scrittrice emerge come denuncia della penosa situazione della 
donna meridionale, ma allo stesso tempo, come sottolinea la Di Giovanna, la sua 
soluzione sembra coincidere soprattutto nell’accettazione di una condizione di 
sottomissione, la stessa auspicata dalla societa patriarcale dalla quale la Messina pare 
partire in polemica all’inizio. Sono proprio la sua ambiguita e moderazione che le 
fanno trovare “il raggio di sole” nella scelta di una vita virtuosa da parte di molte. La 
Di Giovanna conclude il suo primo saggio, Ideologia e struttura nell’opera della 
Messina, evidenziando il desiderio della scrittrice “per una societa immobile, dove 
ognuno stia al suo posto e invalicabili e naturali siano i confini di classe”. 

Nel secondo saggio, Eros e classi sociali, 1a Di Giovanna chiarisce subito che 
“quasi mai 1’infrazione della normativa sessuale ha il significato di affermazione di sé 


408 Italian Bookshelf 


e di valori alternativi, ma. . . é il prodotto dell’oppressione economica patita dalle 
classi subalterne” (53). I rituali dell’amore sono vivi e importanti per la borghesia, 
mentre nelle classi subalterne si rileva l’accettazione della violazione del codice di 
onore se motivato da necessita economiche. Il vero problema di Vastiana, 
protagonista di // ricordo, sedotta dal padrone, é il suo amore per il seduttore nato al 
momento dello stupro, ed @ per questo che la ragazza viene relegata nella categoria dei 
“diversi” dalla sua stessa povera comunita. Non c’é scelta di esperienza erotica per la 
donna, il suo ruolo é passivo, a meno che non venga utilizzato come “strumento di 
riappropriazione di classe” (66). Ancora una volta viene messa in evidenza |’ambigua 
posizione della Messina, emotivamente vicina alla donna borghese, ma sensibile alla 
condizione delle figure proletarie femminili solo “quando esse rimangono al loro 
posto” (68). 

L’ultimo saggio che conclude il nostro testo @ costituito da una completa analisi 

del romanzo Un fiore che non fiorit. La Di Giovanna giustamente nota che qui si tratta 
“della timida ricerca di una nuova identita da parte delle giovani generazioni di donne 
negli anni venti” (73). Ma le audaci signorine moderne non riscontrano alcun 
cambiamento nelle aspirazioni maschili, che mantengono tradizionali pregiudizi. 
Le protagoniste di questo romanzo scelgono nuove mode, stili diversi di vita, ma non 
hanno una visione chiara del loro futuro. In loro “permane l’impossibilita di 
elaborare un progetto esistenziale” (79). L’inevitabile, triste conclusione del 
romanzo segna, come scrive la Di Giovanna, “il fallimento che tocca le aspirazioni e 
i tentativi emancipatori di un’intera generazione femminile”. La fuga impossibile ha 
il merito di presentare l’opera di questa scrittrice siciliana a lungo dimenticata, ma per 
la cui produzione — soprattutto La casa nel vicolo e Gente che passa — puo essere 
annoverata tra le voci femminili pit valide degli inizi del ventesimo secolo. 


Rosalia Colombo Ascari, Sweet Briar College 


Joseph Francese. Jl realismo impopolare di Pier Paolo Pasolini. 
Foggia: Bastogi Editrice Italiana, 1991. Pp. 101. 


In questo studio su Pier Paolo Pasolini, il critico Joseph Francese ci propone un 
aspetto problematico dell’intellettuale italiano; come il titolo stesso ci avverte, // 
realismo impopolare di Pier Paolo Pasolini ci porta immediatamente a soffermarci 
prima sul problematico realismo pasoliniano e poi sull’aggettivo, facendoci anche 
riflettere sulla figura di questo autore, personaggio scomodo, polemico e poco amato 
dai suoi coetani e sempre sulla linea di fuoco. 

Il libro di Francese € composto di quattro capitoli che analizzano il processo 
della maturazione artistica di Pasolini che il critico divide in tre fasi, ognuna delle 
quali corrisponde a tre diversi modi di interpretare la storia da parte di Pasolini. 

La prima fase, che va dalla seconda guerra mondiale agli anni Cinquanta, é 
caratterizzata dallo sforzo intellettuale dell’autore di imporre alle sue idee e passioni 
viscerali un fondamento ideologico marxista. Ricerca, questa, che porta Pasolini ad 
interpretare gli eventi in termine di lotta di classe e a leggere la storia 
dialetticamente. L’opposizione al fascismo e la produzione poetica del giovane 


Italian Bookshelf 409 


Pasolini, come ben indica Francese, rispecchiano il travaglio della sua generazione. 
L’intellettuale visto nelle sue contraddizioni pil’ vere, quelle della sua formazione 
culturale, diventa personaggio emblema per capire il secondo Novecento italiano e il 
travaglio della generazione che si oppose al fascismo e pit tardi tento di venire a capo 
del terrorismo. 

La seconda fase, che storicamente é legata all’evento del miracolo economico 
italiano di inizio anni Sessanta, corrisponde, come addita Francese, al 
ridimensionamento del ruolo sociale del movimento di classe organizzato e alla 
pasoliniana constatazione della resa operaia di fronte alla societa dei consumi. La 
nuova situazione culturale é definita da Pasolini “Nuova Preistoria” ed @ caratterizzata 
da un continuum atemporale privo di dialettica e di progressione storica. Questo 
periodo é simile alla concezione ciclica delle societa agrarie primordiali con la 
differenza che negli anni Sessanta il tempo é@ segnato dall’eterno ritorno del ciclo 
produzione-consumo. Come Francese indica, questo periodo segna una profonda crisi 
per Pasolini accentuata dall’isolamento culturale e politico in cui vive. I] contrasto 
politico con le varie forze politiche progressive italiane che avevano forzato 
Pasolini all’isolamento si attenua nella terza fase che storicamente corrisponde al 
periodo che segue i movimenti studenteschi del 1968. Nella ribellione studentesca 
Pasolini ravvede una nuova dialettica storica all’interno della borghesia. I] nuovo 
scontro rappresenta il verificarsi del conflitto edipico fra studenti, tutti borghesi, e i 
loro padri che rappresentano la generazione precedente. Questi nuovi eventi, che lo 
convincono a rientrare nella mischia, portano Pasolini a definire il periodo 
“Dopostoria”. 

Il “Dopostoria”, che precede la morte di Pasolini, é caratterizzato dalla ricerca 
dell’intellettuale di inserirsi sovversivamente fra le generazioni dei fratelli minori dei 
sessantottisti, che nel futuro sostituiranno i fratelli maggiori, per modificarne la 
crescita ideologica ed ideale. In questo nuovo progetto, come ben indica Francese, 
Pasolini sente l’esigenza di esporsi pur di recuperare politicamente finanche i giovani 
proletari neofascisti e di spostare l’asse politico in senso progressivo. 

Tutti e quattro i capitoli del libro di Francese si collegano alle fasi della 
maturazione artistica pasoliniana delineata dal critico. In essi Francese utilizza, 
sebbene non dettagliatamente, le opere scritte da Pasolini nei vari momenti della sua 
maturazione per sostenere la sua analisi storico-critica. Per esempio negli anni 
Cinquanta, afferma Francese, il romanzo Ragazzi di vita esemplifica la ricerca 
stilistica pasoliniana che a differenza di altri scrittori italiani impegnati minimizza il 
contenuto e il protagonista edificante. Sempre secondo il critico, la recezione 
negativa del romanzo da parte di molti critici dell’aerea comunista porta Pasolini alla 
stesura di Una vita violenta, rigidamente osservante del prospettivismo comunista del 
tempo. 

Nel secondo capitolo, “Verso il ‘Dopostoria’”, Francese utilizza 1’accostamento 
di Pasolini al cinema per criticare ]’errata convinzione dell’intellettuale che riteneva 
il segno iconico meno astratto di quello simbolico della scrittura, la quale evoca la 
realta e non la riproduce come il cinema. Questa convinzione, come indica Francese, 
porta Pasolini ad utilizzare il cinema, visto come arte borghese, come strumento per 
rappresentare l’agire in modo da suscitare nello spettatore delle reazioni istintive 
saltando le barriere linguistiche e senza utilizzare la lingua delle classi dominanti. 

Nel terzo capitolo, “Il realismo impopolare”, il critico utilizza “Il manifesto per 


410 Italian Bookshelf 


un nuovo teatro” scritto da Pasolini nel 1968, per mostrare il tentativo di 
sistemazione razionale e di programmazione dell’azione letteraria tentato dall’autore 
dopo la crisi degli anni Sessanta. L’imborghesimento del proletariato aveva privato 
Pasolini di ogni interlocutore, l’unico atto disponibile quindi sarebbe stato di 
comunicare con lo spettatore teatrale borghese nella ricerca di ribaltare la subalternita 
del letterato per restituirgli una funzione di stimolatore di idee progressiste. 

Il quarto capitolo, “Tetro entusiasmo”, esamina la ricerca pasoliniana di 
sostituire alla borghesia della fase precedente un nuovo interlocutore per contestare il 
neocapitalismo e l’omologazione culturale. Francese utilizza l’ultimo film di 
Pasolini, "Sald”, per chiarificare l’atteggiamento dell’autore sull’acquiescenza, il 
conformismo, il sesso e il potere. L’ultima speranza rimasta al tormentato autore era 
di trovare un modo per combattere il conformismo della gioventt italiana degli anni 
Settanta. Speranza che il Francese ben vede nella raccolta poetica “La nuova 
gioventu”’. 

Fornito di note ampissime, utili e interessanti, lo studio di Francese rende 
omaggio all’intellettuale Pasolini. Senza essere agiografico o ricorrere 
all’omosessualita Francese mette in risalto il travaglio artistico pasoliniano e coglie 
molto bene il maggior difetto dell’artista nella sua “immoderata voglia di 
confessarsi”. Tale disposizione porta l’autore a proiettare fuori di sé i propri 
sentimenti e crisi oggettivandoli senza tentare un’analisi dell’io dall’esterno a tutto 
scapito della comunicazione. Come ben addita Francese, conoscere equivale a 
esprimersi e a contraddirsi, il che significa ammettere l’impossibilita di dare una 
forma razionale alle proprie passioni e lotte. 

Lo studio é molto interessante e utile e si rivolge soprattutto a quegli studiosi che 
gia conoscono il lavoro di Pasolini (di qui la mancanza di una bibliografia). Quello 
che sta pit a cuore a Francese é di mostrare Pasolini come raro esempio di artista 1] cui 
impegno politico diventa elemento fondamentale di una produzione artistica di alta 
qualita che non si puo capire se viene separata dal contesto storico al quale é legata 
dialetticamente e integralmente. 


Antonio Vitti, Wake Forest University 


Mario Moroni. Essere e fare. L'itinerario poetico di Antonio Porta. 
Rimini: Luisé, 1991. 


Carlo Michelstaedter divideva l’approccio all’esperienza in due categorie esistenziali, 
la “persuasione” e la “rettorica”. Se il persuaso — condizione rarissima, quasi 
inattingibile — vive secondo la convinzione che la vita si realizza nell’attimo 
presente e non nel progetto del futuro, l’uomo della retorica ha invece continuamente 
bisogno di pianificare, allargare il proprio dominio, impadronirsi dello spazio e del 
tempo. Davanti a una figura complessa come quella di Antonio Porta (1935-1989) 
capita di pensare che una terza categoria potrebbe essere affiancata alle due di 
Michelstaedter: quella dei persuasi dalla retorica. Solo una profonda persuasione, una 
vera e propria fascinazione verso la progettazione letteraria come sostituto 
dell’ispirazione pud spiegare il tragitto di Antonio Porta, figura dominante della 


Italian Bookshelf 411 


parabola dell’avanguardia italiana dagli anni "60 alla fine degli anni ’80. II libro di 
Mario Moroni é la prima guida alla sua ricca opera poetica, critica, narrativa e teatrale 
che si spinga fino ai suoi ultimi scritti, con la preziosa aggiunta di una bibliografia di 
ventisette pagine estremamente curata e che é certamente il risultato di una non 
piccola ricerca. 

Essere e fare & dunque la prima monografia completa su Antonio Porta? Non 
proprio, forse non ancora. Il primo capitolo, dedicato agli anni ’60, é il pit: elaborato 
e comprensivo, e l’elogio si pud estendere alla prima parte del capitolo sugli anni 
"70. Sono le pagine in cui Moroni si scopre maggiormente, in cui enuncia con 
maggiore precisione una sua linea interpretativa, come quando osserva che in Porta il 
correlativo oggettivo non é tanto un rapporto con il magma del reale, come in Eliot, 
ma una relazione con una realta che appare come gia interpretata (24). La riduzione 
dell’io lirico effettuata in nome dell’oggettivita nei testi delle prime raccolte (La 
palpebra rovesciata, Cara,I rapporti), gli articoli sul Verri e su Marcatre, il primo 
romanzo sperimentale Partita, tutta la produzione portiana degli anni 60 testimonia 
infatti di una incessante, attentissima riflessione, di una ricerca e progettazione della 
letterarieta che macina, nel suo costante autosuperarsi, ogni pausa, ogni dubbio sulla 
funzione e sullo scopo di tutto questo darsi da fare. E Moroni, da attento ammiratore di 
Porta, conduce il lettore attraverso tale denso periodo con mano molto sicura. Anche 
all’inizio del secondo capitolo Moroni mostra di avere centrato il carattere 
fondamentale dell’opera di Porta: un linguaggio “‘inteso come produzione, creazione 
di stimoli linguistici e infine come comunicazione” (51), dove quest’ultima categoria 
esclude in ogni caso la sorgente dell’io e intende comunicare precisamente la propria 
modalita di produzione. Ora, @ proprio la produzione il dio a cui Porta si offre in 
sacrificio. “Fare poesia” @ il suo motto, Nel fare poesia @ il titolo della sua 
autoantologia del 1985, “non parlare di poesia ma farla, praticarla” € la sua linea 
d’azione (60). 

E a questo punto che il libro di Moroni, che pure ha intitolato il suo libro Essere 
e fare, avrebbe potuto passare dalla monografia allo studio critico, perché @ proprio 
attraverso il concetto di produzione, cosi artigiano e insieme cosi “neocapitalistico”, 
cosi squisitamente partecipe dell’estetica del Gruppo ’63, che possiamo tentare una 
prima ricognizione del ruolo di Porta nella poesia italiana del Novecento. 

Porta ha incarnato, in Italia, la figura del poeta libero professionista che vive 
della sua abilita di combinatore di parole e della sua iniziativa di operatore culturale — 
e tutto questo, va detto, senza proteggersi né dietro una cattedra né dietro un partito. 
Porta é stato un vero manager della poesia e delle lettere: curatore della discussa ma 
fondamentale antologia Poesia degli anni ’70, animatore di “Alfabeta” e del festival 
“Milano Poesia”, personaggio mai troppo mondano ma sempre presente sulla scena 
culturale cittadina e nazionale, era destinato a diventare, se la morte non l’avesse 
fermato, l’indiscusso poeta ufficiale della sua generazione. La frase suona quasi: se la 
morte non avesse interrotto una brillante carriera, che é un po’ quello che si direbbe di 
un dirigente d’azienda la cui scomparsa ha lasciato un vuoto organizzativo che i suoi 
sottoposti non sono ancora pronti a colmare. E la mancanza di Porta si sente: senza la 
sua mano a guidarle, le iniziative da iui dirette boccheggiano 0 sono gia sepolte, e 
nessuno sembra pronto a raccogliere la sua eredita instancabile. I] suo paradosso é 
stato proprio questo: Porta, che non ha mai fatto parte di nessuna istituzione letteraria 
riconosciuta, ha creduto nell’istituzionalita della letteratura come e pit di molti 


412 Italian Bookshelf 


tranquilli stipendiati del mestiere delle lettere, e ha dedicato la sua vita a “produrre” 
poesia e critica con la costanza e la determinazione di un industriale che crede 
fermamente nel mercato, nella concorrenza e nel diritto del pubblico di essere servito 
sempre meglio e con modelli sempre nuovi. Non voglio sembrare riduttivo e spero di 
non essere frainteso. Porta é stato importante, ma pill passa il tempo e pit si ha il 
sospetto che molte sue svolte poetiche, come diceva un personaggio di Borges a 
proposito delle Odi di Abraham Cowley, appartengano pit alla storia dell’arte che 
all’ arte. 

E cruciale, a questo proposito, la metamorfosi intrapresa da Porta nei testi 
pubblicati negli anni ’80, soprattutto Passi passaggi e Invasioni. Due tensioni vi si 
combattono: da un lato il desiderio di distendere il verso in forme pit discorsive, 
finalmente capaci di un po’ d’oblio verso le ferree ragioni di poetica che le 
sorvegliano; dall’altro l’impossibilita, per Porta, di aprire davvero 1 cancelli della sua 
azienda letteraria, di fare un po’ di sano sciopero contro se stesso. In fondo la poesia 
di Antonio Porta ha, come unico oggetto, la poesia di Antonio Porta. L’attenzione 
esasperata verso i procedimenti del dire, del fare e del comunicare cio che si sta 
dicendo, facendo e comunicando é il tratto che lega il Porta degli anni ’80 al giovane e 
inflessibile sperimentatore di trent’anni prima. E la sua coerenza, forse la sua 
grandezza, e non gliela vogliamo togliere. Ma é proprio nel capitolo sugli anni ’80, 
che avrebbe dovuto tirare i fili del lavoro, che la monografia di Moroni si 
indebolisce: solo diciotto pagine, poco pit di una rassegna critica sui suoi ultimi 
lavori. Pe saperne qualcosa di pit il lettore deve cercare |’articolo che Moroni ha 
pubblicato su /talian Culture (“Passi passaggi” e “Invasioni” : i libri di trasformazione 
nella poesia di Antonio Porta, “Italian Culture”, 9 [1991], 371-380), dove trova 
un’analisi pit dettagliata e maggiori riscontri testuali. E probabile che il sovrapporsi 
dei tempi editoriali non abbia permesso a Moroni di integrare la sua monografia con 
ulteriori approfondimenti. In tal caso prevediamo che Essere e fare sia solo una fase di 
un work in progress che |’autore sara sicuramente in grado di niprendere e portare a 
conclusione. 


Alessandro Carrera, McMaster University 


Gian Paolo Biasin. I sapori della modernita. Cibo e romanzo. 
Intersezioni 96. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1991. Pp. 204. 


This fascinating study uses the images of food — its presentation, ingestion, 
transformation, and “aura” — as a way to focus the analysis of several of the most 
important novels of the past two centuries in Italy. I have to admit that when I began 
reading this study, I expected it to be a sort of light-hearted treatment of gustatory 
imagery over the ages. But as it turns out this is not the case at all. Biasin’s analysis 
begins with an introduction that points out his major forebears (Hegel, Lévi-Strauss, 
Marin, Raimondi) and his major concerns, those of thematics as well as narrativity. 
His work then proceeds to a chapter that uses the various depictions of food in 


Italian Bookshelf 413 


Manzoni’s great nineteenth-century novel as a method for analyzing the meanings of 
the novel as well as its aesthetic effects. This sort of nuanced, in-depth analysis is 
then repeated through a series of texts in more or less historical order, from Verga’s 
realist masterpiece, | Malavoglia, to narratives by D’Annunzio, Tomasi di 
Lampedusa, Gadda, Calvino, and Primo Levi. In each example, Biasin studies his 
imagery of choice in relation to the primary interests of the texts at hand (in terms of 
both desire and need [254], be those texts romantic, realistic, decadent, “neo- 
historical,” modernist, postmodernist, or “scientifically” confessional. In the way 
the argument builds, Biasin manages to treat the centers of and the differences 
between these texts in a manner that is notably subtle and indirect but also, in the 
end, critically informed and powerful. No one else has possessed the mixture of 
critical imagination, insight, and tact to produce a study of this sort on this topic, so 
that Biasin’s work is genuinely ground-breaking. It should also be said that in terms 
of both style and the intellectual energy generated by Biasin’s text, / sapori della 
modernita is a pleasure to read from first to last. Moreover Biasin’s Sapori makes a 
fine complement to his cone italiane (1985; trans. Italian Literary Icons, Princeton 
UP). 

As in any critical work, there are various local assertions that should be 
examined further. One of these occurs at the outset of the chapter on Verga, when 
Biasin says that Sergio Campailla’s work has not been duly recognized (I feel it has, 
but perhaps that is simply because I have been so deeply impressed and influenced by 
it) . On the other hand, there are also a good number of local comments that are 
extraordinarily enlightening. For example, the conclusion of the Verga chapter, with 
the references to Woolf’s To the Lighthouse, is a real trovata: a wonderfully 
suggestive piece of comparative analysis. Furthermore, the Calvino chapter shows 
that no one discusses Calvino’s aesthetic and humanist (as well as anti-humanist) 
concerns as well as Biasin. And finally, the carefully nuanced treatment of 
defamiliarization in the chapter on Levi is extremely well done both for an Italian and 
an American and/or comparatist critical audience. 

Biasin’s study has various stretches of especially compelling analysis, among 
them the intriguing discussion of the surprising /ack of open imagery as regards food 
and oral consumption in D’Annunzio’s work, the extraordinary abundance of such 
imagery in Lampedusa’s /I gattopardo, and, in what is in many respects the most 
remarkable of Biasin’s chapters, the awful confluence of human need and human 
destiny as regards the depiction of food in Levi’s narrative oeuvre. In these and other 
parts of the book, Biasin points the way to what, in my view, may well be the 
revitalization of Italian studies in Europe and especially in the United States through 
the combination of the discoveries of literary theory and comparative literary 
criticism in direct relation to specific literary texts. That Biasin’s chosen texts are 
among the most masterful produced in the West over the past two hundred years does 
contribute, of course, to the interest created by his work; but it should also be said 
that his selection of theoretical notions and comparative allusions is from start to 
finish very close to impeccable. J sapori della modernita thus shows a way out of the 
blind alley of the older Italian studies of literary thematics and literary 
historiography by opening up a new concept of both textual understanding and 
literary relations. For these and still other reasons, Biasin’s new work is an 
exemplary text for all of us involved in the project(s) of modern Italian studies, one 


414 Italian Bookshelf 


that we can and should enjoy not only for the intelligence of its analyses but also for 
its notable taste, which is another way of saying for its own thoroughly stimulating 
Sapori. 


Gregory Lucente, The University of Michigan 


Margherita Pieracci Harwell. Un cristiano senza chiesa e altri 
saggi. Roma: Studium, 1991. 


Nel volume Un cristiano senza chiesa e altri saggi Margherita Pieracci Harwell 
esamina tre prosatori e tre poeti contemporanei offrendo un prezioso contributo sui 
modi della ricerca religiosa nel Novecento italiano. I] problema essenziale trattato 
nei saggi riguarda il rapporto tra l’opera letteraria e la presenza o |’assenza di una fede 
che dia senso alle contraddizioni del reale. In questo modo concezione di spiritualita e 
iter esistenziale si compenetrano promuovendo, in un mondo oramai caratterizzato 
dalla crisi delle certezze, l’impegno morale ed il travaglio della ricerca di un senso alla 
vita. Sviluppando questa problematica la studiosa riconosce percid nei diversi autori 
una sensibilita intima che apre in diverse maniere al mondo, trasferendo nella 
scrittura un’ideologia tutta personale della vita. La ricerca religiosa acquista cosi un 
valore soprattutto individuale e non sempre coincide, a naturale conclusione della 
propria meditatio interiore, con una conversione dottrinale. 

Nel primo saggio su Ignazio Silone (7-51) la studiosa riscontra ed esamina la 
fondamentale presenza di un substrato cristiano nell’opera dello scrittore abruzzese. I 
simboli di tale substrato rimandano ad una tradizione cristiana che risale ai 
movimenti gioachimiti e celestiniani e che rappresenta la vera essenza del mondo dei 
personaggi siloniani. Nell’Abruzzo di Silone si incarna e si esalta l’essenza di un 
cristianesimo primitivo anteriore alla Controriforma mettendo in rilievo una civilta 
contadina che proprio grazie a questa radice cristiana @ in grado di esprimere, 
nonostante le sofferenze della propria condizione, una certa autenticita e dignita 

In Fontamara (1930) Silone denuncia il costume medioevale e feudale che 
opprime il povero in quanto esso rappresenta solo una deformazione del costume 
tradizionale. Tutto cid emerge in primo piano ne II segreto di Luca (1956) dove il 
personaggio attua non tanto una rivolta contro i costumi della trib. quanto 
l’accettazione (di qui la grandezza di Luca) del limite della propria tradizione e cosi 
della propria essenza. In tale modo Luca accetta intimamente il proprio tragico 
destino, di essere trasformato dalla sofferenza, e Silone evita un facile schematismo 
ideologico non semplificando una realta che risulta complessa e contraddittoria. 

Sebbene lo scrittore decida di mantenere le distanze dalla Chiesa in quanto 
istituzione evitando un’adesione formale, rimane il suo impegno morale nei confronti 
della verita che, circostanziata nell’evento storico, non si piega ad alcun 
dogmatismo. L’essenza morale del Cristo si incarna nei personaggi di Silone 
soprattutto nel comandamento della carita e cosi, amare il prossimo come se stessi, 
diventa amare i poveri mettendosi al loro servizio nella speranza (apocalittica) di una 
societa pil’ giusta e a beneficio dell’uomo. Da come risulta da brani di lettere tra il 
1957 e il 1977, @ l’insofferenza dell’ingiustizia che sprona l’autore a farsi voce di chi 


Italian Bookshelf 415 


non sa parlare (proprio come Simon Weil in cui si riconosce), auspicando nel proprio 
cuore un cristianesimo non contaminato ed una fede dei semplici che aprono 
all’esperienza degli altri. 

Nel secondo saggio, Primo Levi: storia e leggenda (77-94), si esaminano 
religiosita e problematica del dolore nelle sue diverse forme. Per lo scrittore torinese 
é fondamentale produrre cultura viva impegnandosi a capire, e a far capire tramite la 
narrazione, l’esperienza del dolore nel mondo (/ sommersi e i salvati,1986). Narrare é 
quindi tornare su esperienze passate per capirle, e in tale modo farsi consapevole della 
propria vita, soprattutto dopo l’esperienza traumatica di Auschwitz. L’esperienza del 
genocidio rappresenta infatti una sfida alla ragione e un affronto alla cultura con cui 
per sopravvivere bisogna misurarsi. Sono proprio le radici razionaliste dell’ autore, 
Ebreo assimilato “tutto penetrato dall’eredita rinascimentale-ottocentesca della sua 
patria e della sua classe” (82), a dargli il coraggio di raccontare (allo stesso tempo 
differenziandolo dall’atteggiamento del credente). L’accusa ai tedeschi pit’ che una 
denuncia specifica é la reiterazione costante di un “perché?” che convalida il tentativo 
instancabile di cercare di capire. Interpretare la propria esperienza significa 
esorcizzarla dalla vergogna di appartenere a un mondo segnato dall’orrore del Lager, 
rompendo il circuito interno dell’esperienza stessa con la comunicazione che la rende 
intellegibile (Se questo é un uomo,1947). 

Rifiutando l’istanza irrazionale e non ponendo in discussione il concetto di 
liberta morale, Levi crea nella sua opera un universo simbolico simile a quello della 
leggenda dove si fronteggiano le forze del bene e del male. Tuttavia l’autore riconosce 
una zona d’ombra dove bene e male coesistono ed il giudizio resta sospeso. Esiste 
cosi un limite ad ogni tentativo di razionalizzazione del ricordo che non trova mai una 
resa espressiva definitiva. Forse una soluzione del dilemma é possibile al credente pit 
che al laico integrale. In ogni caso il laicismo di Levi dopo una lettura dell’opera resta 
nel dubbio ed anche pervaso da un riaffioramento della religione ebraica, come 
traspare nella poesia “Pasqua” del 1982. 

Il saggio che segue, Fisica e metafisica di un mestiere nella narrativa di Paolo 
Barbaro (95-109), prende in analisi l’opera di uno scrittore-ingegnere che trae la 
propria visione del mondo dalla prospettiva del tecnico. Da tale prospettiva ed 
esperienza si traggono le metafore per decifrare la vita, scavando nella concretezza 
alla ricerca di un senso del mondo. II] tema centrale dell’opera, gia presente in 
Giornale dei lavori (1966), & l’orgoglio/amore per le opere dell’uomo accompagnato 
da un senso di piccolezza che esse stabiliscono di fronte alla natura. Barbaro perd é 
anche cosciente delle conseguenze del lavoro, della morte di persone coinvolte 
manualmente nell’opera, della cancellazione dei “‘segni” (97) che caratterizzano un 
certo luogo, e del carattere disumanizzante del lavoro stesso. 

Le qualita stilistiche della prosa di Barbaro si compendiano, secondo la studiosa, 
nell’aggettivo icastico che comprende in sé tre valori letterari fondamentali: 
esattezza, rapidita e visibilita. Questi valori svelano nello scrittore una tensione 
verso la precisione ed un rapporto difficile con la parola che dice sempre qualcosa di 
meno dell’esperienza. Nella scrittura si registra fondamentalmente una tensione al 
bello che si traduce in una ricerca della forma esatta ed applicata. In tale modo Barbaro 
si rende pill vicino alla realta ed ai suoi contrasti (Passi d’uomo,1978), ed evitando 
l’ornato, si apre con speranza alla vita sentendosi parte di un’umanita e di una terra 
senza confini. 


416 Italian Bookshelf 


Nel saggio Poesia e ricerca religiosa in Mario Luzi (111-34) la studiosa 
ripercorre le tappe fondamentali dell’iter luziano ed afferma che la sua ricerca poetica é 
essenzialmente ricerca religiosa. I] poeta accompagna infatti il proprio fare poesia 
con una incessante e profonda riflessione che costituisce un instancabile interrogarsi 
sul divenire del mondo e la sua essenza. Luzi, ispirato da Chardin, coglie tramite 1’atto 
poetico i ritmi profondi del divenire, dell’evoluzione universale, ed illumina, con un 
linguaggio pregno di significato, una realta in continua metamorfosi. In tale modo il 
poeta si immedesima con il processo stesso della vita e le sue forze, sforzandosi di 
trovare, a capo della ricerca, ordine e chiarezza. Tale impresa del verso pero, e qui 
poesia e religione trovano punto di contatto, si rivela senza sosta e senza vero punto 
d’arrivo rinnovandosi nella continua interrogazione. Con la polemica dell’impegno 
(Pasolini) Luzi é@ costretto a uscire dalla prigione del sé e l’opera poetica si apre a un 
confronto con la realta (Nel magma,1963). La poesia diventa pero espressione della 
metamorfosi dello scrittore, della sua crescita spirituale e morale, svelando nel 
movimento dello spirito un’articolata inclinazione interiore che si manifesta nel 
mondo. In conclusione, 1’intrinseca religiosita della poesia non é tanto nel trovare un 
punto di contatto con la religione codificata quanto con l’idea di progressione 
irreversibile (“La creazione poetica”). L’essenza del reale @ quindi la metamorfosi in 
cui la realta cresce su se stessa instaurando, nella dialettica morte/vita, un 
interscambio tra passato e presente contrassegnato da un profetico senso della 
trasformazione. 

Nel quinto saggio, Cristina Campo: della perfezione (135-149), viene tracciato, 
tramite ]’analisi di alcuni testi, un abbozzo di profilo, cercando di cogliere le qualita 
fondamentali di una poetessa che, nonostante il talento, @ poco nota. Dalle 
riflessioni estratte da Gli imperdonabili (1987) risulta che nell’iter poetico di 
Cristina Campo si compie soprattutto una quéte della chiarezza che tende a 
promuovere il connubbio di significato e forma. Nei versi il significato trapela nelle 
figure poetiche come un’entita radiosa, rivelando l’essenza profonda della coscienza 
ed un intimo vincolo tra poesia e cammino esistenziale. I] cammino della vita diventa 
inteso come un cammino verso il mistero, caratterizzato dal tentativo di riconoscere 
cio che é nostro fin dalle origini, per destinazione. In tale modo la verita si fa natura, 
segno concreto di un ordine che imprime giustizia nel mondo, mentre nei geroglifici 
poetici si compenetrano bellezza e significato, ispirando l’umanita a distillare dal 
mondo stesso il proprio segreto. 

L’ultimo saggio, L’opera di Margherita Guidacci (151-196), offre un ampio 
affresco della poetessa fiorentina ripercorrendo le tappe iniziali di un percorso 
poetico ed esistenziale segnato dallo sfondo nativo e dalla passione per la letteratura 
angloamericana. Nell’opera risulta che questi elementi promuovono nella Guidacci un 
senso del concreto contraddistinto da chiarezza e semplicita. Tali qualita sono 
presenti pure nell’opera poetica del cugino della poetessa Nicola Lisi (nonostante che 
Margherita Pieracci non vi riscontri un vero influsso) con cui la poetessa ha 
condiviso i luoghi della propria infanzia (Scarperia). La studiosa addita perd un 
legame pit! profondo tra i due autori mettendo in evidenza in entrambi un misterioso 
ed incantato senso religioso della natura e della vita. Questo modo religioso investe 
la parola poetica che tende a diventare “altro” assumendo risonanze enigmatiche che 
la trasfigurano. Il cattolicesimo della Guidacci si dimostra cosi “lisiano” e 
“Nnostrano”, in quanto si rifa alla tradizione popolare della Toscana del Trecento. 


Italian Bookshelf 417 


Lo studio prosegue mostrando il ruolo fondamentale di una varieta di esperienze 
che segnano l’iter intellettuale della Guidacci: il rapporto con il De Robertis, il 
confronto con la parola ungarettiana ed il lavoro di traduttrice. A questo crogiolo di 
esperienze consegue una poesia célta che accentra le immagini e gli emblemi attorno 
al tema chiave della vita e della morte. Nelle immagini di morte, la poetessa sprigiona 
una forza liberatrice che si unisce al tutto, aprendo cosi un varco oltre la vita. Tale 
comunione col tutto redime dal male di vivere, spoglia l’essere da ogni resistenza e 
rivela una certezza di fede nell’ordine del mondo. La stessa certezza di fede é smarrita 
pero nel periodo di crisi che caratterizza la silloge poetica Neurosuite (1968) in cui 
domina l’orrore delle immagini e 1’atmosfera infernale. Qui ]’autrice mostra, con 
immagini di vita rovesciate, la coscienza di una perdita fondamentale: la certezza 
dell’amor di Dio. Dopo molti anni, nei versi di Jnno alla gioia (1983), Margherita 
Guidacci ritrova la forza della propria voce e del proprio destino, riemergendo da una 
condizione di morte metaforica. L’inno di giubilo che i versi onorano esalta una vita 
ritrovata ed un restaurato rapporto col “tu” attraverso le cose. La nuova stagione 
poetica continua nella raccolta Liber fulguralis (1988) e si protrae nella inaspettata 
silloge Una breve misura (1988) in cui la poetessa propone la semplicita e la felicita 
del canto degli haiku giapponesi. 

Mi preme sottolineare che in Un cristiano senza chiesa e altri saggi 1 modi della 
ricerca religiosa descritti da Margherita Pieracci mettono in evidenza un saldo legame 
tra i singoli autori e la propria esperienza di vita. In tale modo, secondo la mia 
opinione, si evitano astrazioni ideologiche che esiliano dalle singole realta, si 
distingue la dimensione religiosa da quella confessionale e si mette in chiaro una delle 
esigenze pil autentiche e naturali dell’individuo: il bisogno di trovare un senso nella 
vita. Secondo Carl Gustav Jung (Man in Search of a Soul) la neurosi spesso si 
manifesta in un individuo che non ha trovato un significato nella propria esistenza, e 
tale significato, che intensifica ma non crea un mito personale, si riconosce pian 
piano nella riflessione che deve accompagnare il nostro vivere. La scoperta di un 
significato non coincide quindi con un simbolo ma con un processo interiore pregno 
di simbolicita che diventa parte implicita del nostro viaggio, a volte meravigliandoci 
con sorprendenti coincidenze, ed altre volte manifestandosi nella dimensione estetica 
della prosa o del verso. 


Massimo Maggiari, Clemson University 


Victoria de Grazia. How Fascism Ruled Women: Italy, 1922-1945. 
Berkeley: U of California P, 1992. Pp. 350. 


“Bisogna vigilare seriamente sul destino della razza. . . . Bisogna curare la razza a 
cominciare dalla maternita e dall’infanzia.” With this May, 1927, address, later 
known as /I discorso dell’Ascensione, Mussolini at once launched the fascist 
demographic campaign and functionalized the role of women in the state. That 
programmed and prolific maternity was integral to fascist reorganization of the state 
and its consolidation of power is axiomatic and much discussed. But what was the 
relationship between the Regime and women who were not mothers? What of 


418 Italian Bookshelf 


adolescent girls, working women, women (married and unmarried) who had no 
children? Were class and regional distinctions between women — mothers or not — 
effaced by an essentially (read: essentialized) maternal nature? In How Fascism Ruled 
Women: Italy, 1922-1945, Victoria de Grazia addresses these questions, offering a 
thorough examination of the condition of women in Italy during the ventennio. As 
one of a very few studies available in English on the vexed relationship of the fascist 
state to women, de Grazia’s meticulously documented investigation is an outstanding 
addition to the field of mid-twentieth-century Italian social history. As perhaps the 
lone example in English of a book-length treatment of this material that is feminist 
in perspective, de Grazia’s study is a vital, indeed, indispensable contribution. 

How Fascism Ruled Women is organized around the various moments in women’s 
experiences, “from maternity to political involvement,” and is “intended to reflect 
how the dictatorship impinged on women’s lives” (16). To give an idea of its scope, 
we might fruitfully group the book’s nine chapters into several clusters of two to 
three chapters each. The first grouping considers the Regime’s “nationalization of 
women” (Chapter One) in the light of the “legacy of liberalism” (Chapter Two) and 
the Great War. As de Grazia observes, “Liberal Italy’s neglectful treatment of its 
subjects was compounded when they were female” (19): Italian family law infantalized 
and discriminated against women and the Church, ever watchful of “family values,” 
inveighed against “the corrosive effects of modern existence” (20) (viz., socialism, 
enfranchisement, the nascent Italian feminist movement, etc.). The recapitulation in 
Chapter Two of the events that led up to the collapse of the Giolitti government, the 
founding of the first fascio, and the seizure of power by the National Fascist Party 
ends in a cogent interpretation of the motivation of early feminist collaboration 
(roughly 1922-1925) and the problems that rapidly ensued. 

The attitude and policies of the state with regard to maternity and the nuclear 
family are the subjects of the second cluster of Chapters Three and Four 
(“Motherhood” and “The Family Versus the State”). Here, as elsewhere, de Grazia 
deftly indicates the paradoxical attitudes of the Regime and the contradictory 
interpretations of them by revisionist scholarship. If Mussolini exhorted women to 
reproduce early and often, there was at least a systematic attempt by the state to aid 
pregnant women and new mothers through a series of state-sponsored family welfare 
agencies such as, for example, the ONMI (National Agency for Maternal and Infant 
Welfare). The fascinating topic of the family under the fascist state (now a discrete 
unit private and sacrosanct, now a situation made public with its individuality and 
agency razed) is the problem confronted in Chapter Four. 

The next and largest cluster of chapters (“Growing Up,” “Working,” “Going 
Out”) form the fulcrum of the book. True to her promise to “document how official 
policies, reinforced by stereotypes circulated through the mass media, standardized 
public discourse about women” (13), de Grazia, through an examination of periodicals 
and newspapers, films and novels, educational practices, and social policies, depicts 
what it must have been like for a woman to come of age during the ventennio. This is 
the book’s most engaging and original narrative. 

Finally, the closing chapters catalogue women’s political involvement during 
the Regime and the Resistance. Steering clear of the obviously consensual women’s 
fasci (whose activities are chronicled elsewhere), at issue here is the retracing of 
extra-Party political expression: bourgeois feminists and women’s organizations, 


Italian Bookshelf 419 


both in and outside the Church, and how they fared in the face of state strictures. 

In fine, How Fascism Ruled Women is eminently readable and a paragon of 
archival research. Although one of the stated aims is to provide a “comparative” 
context in which to evaluate the Regime’s treatment of women, it is altogether more 
convincing when de Grazia concentrates on particularly Italian cases and examples, 
leaving the Swedish, German, and American analogues aside. This study will be 
remembered for its cohesive synthesis of variegated documents (from fascist fascicoli 
to movie fan rags and beyond), its rich and critical insight, and certainly for its lively 
style. 


Ellen Nerenberg, The University of Chicago 


Barahski, Zygmunt G. and Robert Lumley, eds. Culture and Conflict 
in Postwar Italy: Essays on Mass and Popular Culture. New York: 
St. Martin’s Press, 1990. Pp. xiii + 346. 


A significant contribution to the study of contemporary Italian culture and society, 
Culture and Conflict in Postwar Italy brings new perspectives to the analysis of mass 
and popular culture. Although recent decades have seen the proliferation of cultural 
studies in Great Britain and in the United States, little work has been published in 
English on the cultural transformations that other countries have experienced under 
the global spread of neo-capitalism. Seeking to fill this gap with regard to Italy, the 
editors have gathered a series of essays which originated in a conference held at the 
University of Reading in 1987. The collection provides an introduction to, and an 
overview of, many of the major developments that have influenced Italian life since 
1945. 

In their useful introduction, “Turbulent Transitions,” Zygmunt Baranski and 
Robert Lumley describe the social and cultural changes that have transformed Italy 
since WWII and define (with the help of Raymond Williams, Antonio Gramsci, and 
others) three of the collection’s key terms: “mass,” “popular,” and “culture.” The 
editors have sought to combine a variety of methodological approaches and 
disciplines ranging from linguistics, literary criticism, and the sociology of 
communications to the British school of cultural studies and the more cosmopolitan 
and historically rooted Italian tradition of writing on popular and mass culture. This 
is a fruitful combination that helps us to understand different points of view with 
regard to cultural analysis. For example, in discussing Anglo-American and Italian 
uses of the terms “mass” and “popular,” the editors point out that the Italians have a 
very clear sense of the demarcation between /a cultura popolare and la cultura di massa 
due to the longstanding linguistic and cultural diversity of Italian civilization: “The 
Italian use of ‘mass,’ as with its cognates in other languages, has its roots in 1920s 
US usage of the adjective to talk about the consumption of mass produced goods. 
Conversely, popolare belongs to a discernible, broadly based and intellectually 
eclectic national tradition, which since the early nineteenth century has continued to 
give serious consideration to the rich variety of cultural life enjoyed by the majority 


420 Italian Bookshelf 


of inhabitants of the peninsula. . . . It is not difficult to see how the Italian 
distinction between mass and popular culture was born from the need to differentiate 
between what was felt to be popular and ‘genuinely’ indigenous, and what was seen as 
popular but ‘foreign’ or, rather, ‘transatlantic’”’(10). Wishing to maintain this 
important distinction between “mass” and “popular” — a distinction that has been 
eroded in the Anglo-American tradition — the editors have chosen to utilize both 
terms throughout the volume. This important tension between “mass” and “popular,” 
as the editors point out, “brings us closer to the distinctive nature of Italy’s cultural 
development and to the indigenous intellectual debates which it has engendered” (9). 

To be sure, given Italy’s history of linguistic diversity and widely divergent 
regional cultures, together with its lack of a cohesive national identity, the Italian 
experience of rapid and vertiginous cultural transformation since WWII has proved to 
be unique in many respects. The continuing importance to Italian culture of la 
questione della lingua, for example, emerges in Part I, chapter 2 (“Italy: Tradition, 
Backwardness and Modernity” by Geoffrey Nowell-Smith) and in chapter 3 (“How 
Popular Is Italian?” by Giulio Lepschy). The unique characteristics of the Italian 
family and the interrelationship of the family to collective action are treated by Paul 
Ginsborg in chapter 1 (Family, Culture and Politics in Contemporary Italy”). 
Together, the three chapters of Part I establish a wide framework which outlines the 
peculiar historical circumstances of the Italian situation. 

In a similar way, Part II underlines another defining element of post-WWII 
Italian life: the struggle between the Catholic Church and the Italian Communist 
Party for the allegiance of the Italian masses. Chapter 4 (“Uniformity Undone: 
Aspects of Catholic Culture in Postwar Italy” by Percy Allum) and chapter 5 (“The 
Italian Communist Party and Culture” by David Forgacs) focus on how the Catholic 
and Communist sub-cultures ‘“‘attempted to spread and maintain their ideological 
influence over sections of society” (5). These two essays also point out that by the 
1970s “the growth of a consumer society with its market in cultural goods 
independent of the control of institutions and parties spelled crisis for both sub- 
cultures” (5). The importance of new social movements after 1968, especially the 
ecological movement, is the subject of Robert Lumley’s “Challenging Tradition.” 
Lumley argues that social movements are “both the products of transformations 
already underway and themselves the producers of social change” (116). He uses the 
Italian ecology movement as an example of this phenomenon. 

While Parts I and II emphasize sociohistorical elements that tend to be endemic 
to the Italian situation, Part III], “Mass Culture and Intellectuals,” treats the 
contributions that Italian intellectuals have made to cultural analysis. As is well 
known, Italian thinkers, writers, and historians such as Croce, Gramsci, Pasolini, 
Eco, Segre, Camporesi, C. Ginzburg, and Vattimo, to name only the most prominent, 
have produced a rich vein of cultural criticism, historical research, philosophical and 
theoretical work that is international in scope. Zygmunt Baranski’s essay, “Pier 
Paolo Pasolini: Culture, Croce, Gramsci,” seeks to de-mythologize Pasolini’s 
emblematic status as a politically engaged intellectual in the Gramscian mode. 
Barariski raises questions about the relative influence of Croce and Gramsci on 
Pasolini’s intellectual development, particularly with regard to Pasolini’s investment 
in high culture and his understanding of Gramscian notions of popular culture. By 
analyzing the discrepancy between the poet’s self-acclaimed relationship to Gramsci 


Italian Bookshelf 421 


with the philological evidence, mainly his correspondence from 1948-1957 which 
the author finds to be conspicuously lacking in references to Gramsci, Barariski 
argues that Crocean concepts of culture had a greater impact on Pasolini than has been 
previously acknowledged. In this way, Bararfski contributes to the current (and long 
overdue) revisionist trend in Pasolini scholarship which has begun to call greater 
attention to the works themselves. Continuing the focus on Italian intellectuals and 
the study of mass culture, David Robey’s essay, “Umberto Eco and the Analysis of the 
Media,” provides a cogent analysis of the symbiotic relationship between Eco’s 
study of the media and his semiotic theory. Finally, this section concludes with Ian 
Chambers’s discussion of “weak thought” and the contribution of Italian philosophy 
to the debate on postmodernism. 

Part IV deals with cinema and design, while Part V is devoted completely to 
television. Stephen Gundle’s essay, “From Neo-Realism to Luci rosse: Cinema, 
Politics, Society, 1945-85,” charts the social function of the cinema and its role in 
political conflict. Gundle deserves praise for his analysis of the impact that socio- 
economic factors have had on the film industry, particularly in the growth of “red 
light” or pornographic films following the decline in ticket sales in the early 
seventies. Part V offers six articles which analyze the vicissitudes of the television 
industry since its deregulation in 1975. Giuseppe Richeri and Philip Schlesinger 
focus on the RAI and the Berlusconi phenomenon, respectively, while Umberto Eco 
and Mauro Wolf discuss changes in television language and programming. 
Christopher Wagstaff describes the “ritual-like” experience of watching the prime 
time news and Lidia Curti sheds light on the mediating role of Italian audiences in 
naturalizing or “Italianizing” the staggering quantity of imported programs. 
Reflecting the dominant position that television has assumed among the media, these 
articles point the way toward a greater understanding of its social and cultural impact 
in Italy. 

Although the volume does not attempt to be comprehensive or definitive, 
Culture and Conflict in Postwar Italy succeeds admirably in providing an introduction 
to contemporary Italy. Highly informative, as well as stimulating in breadth and 
scope, many of the essays gathered here will not only further scholarly debate but 
should also prove useful in a wide variety of courses dealing with contemporary 
Italian culture and society. 


John P. Welle, University of Notre Dame 


Renato Barilli. Rhetoric. Trans. Giuliana Menozzi. Theory and 
History of Literature 63. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1989. 
Trans. of La retorica. 1983. 


That a book dealing with rhetoric would deploy, in the choice of its title, one of 
rhetoric’s historically most successful tropes, that of a captatio benevolentiae, is 
perhaps not much of a surprise when one deals with Barilli. He is most knowledgeable 
in the difficult and complex history of rhetoric and he is also a most skillful 
rhetorician himself. The modesty inscribed in his title easily assures him a rhetorical 


422 Italian Bookshelf 


double advantage. For one, he surprises the reader with his enormous talent in 
ordering the massive material pertaining to the history of rhetoric, and secondly he 
presents that material in such a way that he arouses the curiosity of his readers, 
compels them to raise questions, and invites them to a dialogue. In short, the 
seemingly unsubstantial title is in no way commensurate with the extraordinary 
substance of the present book. 

Surely, Rhetoric is, first and foremost, a brief history of rhetoric, tracing the 
trajectory of this discipline from the Pre-Socratics and ancient rhetoric to the revival 
of rhetoric in the last forty years or so under the auspices of Chaim Perelman. Such a 
trajectory quite naturally requires a treatment of the key texts of the classical 
rhetorical tradition, and brief yet concise discussions on the influential and important 
works of ancient rhetoric: Aristotle’s The Art of Rhetoric, Topica, Prior Analytics, 
and The Poetics, Cicero’s Academica and De oratore and Quintilian’s /nstitutio 
oratoria certainly do leave an impressive mark on Barilli’s pages. The book also 
offers important information on the rhetorical texts of medieval times, as well as on 
the complex history of rhetoric during Humanism and the Renaissance. It also 
stresses the fundamental baroque theories of rhetoric, where names such as Tesauro 
and Gracian are indispensable. The Enlightenment, Romanticism and Croce’s attitude 
on rhetoric are also briefly treated, and so is the renewed interest in rhetoric in our 
contemporary period. Yet Barilli does not content himself with a traditional account 
of a history of rhetoric. Rather, what he introduces from page one is a certain 
problematic intrinsically interwoven with that history; namely, rhetoric’s selective 
affinities with poetics and aesthetics on the one hand, and its uneasy relation with 
philosophy on the other hand. As a result, Barilli invites us to follow him in his 
discussion of some of Plato’s dialogues, where Plato inexorably chooses philosophy 
over rhetoric, the episteme over the doxa, truth and knowledge over opinion and 
probability when it comes to ontology and epistemology, the way in which things 
are, while simultaneously opting for dialectics rather than rhetoric when it comes to 
the representation of the way he thinks things are. Plato, with his dualism, stands as 
the great divide between words and things, the negator of probability, and the founder 
of a theory in which a privileged encounter of two kindred souls, on the basis not of 
rhetoric but of dialectic, grounds the foundation of all knowledge. With Plato, the 
specialist, and not the people, know what there is to be known and how it should be 
known. In short, with Plato’s predilection for dialectics and his non-negotiable 
rejection of rhetoric, the potentially democratic nature of rhetoric, known to Plato, 
comes to the fore. 

So if Barilli is authoritatively tracing a master narrative of rhetoric, he is also 
tracing a series of micro-narratives, which are striking due to their simplicity and 
persuasive powers. One such mini-history concerns the relation of rhetoric to 
democratic principles as outlined above. This theme resurfaces in his treatment of 
Aristotle, in so far as Aristotle’s rejection of the Platonic separation of dialectics and 
rhetoric reintroduces and preserves the democratic vocation inscribed in rhetoric. 
While there is no doubt that Aristotle grounds his notion of rhetoric on induction and 
deduction, endowing them with logical categories reminiscent of his analytics, there 
is also no doubt that the three branches of rhetoric, the forensic, deliberative, and 
epideictic, link the science of rhetoric to the city, to the community, and to the 
motivations that ground human interaction. In Aristotle’s Organon, which 


Italian Bookshelf 423 


categorizes and orders the knowledge of the natural and human sciences, rhetoric, as a 
branch of logic, has its undisputed place. The mini-history of the potentially 
democratic nature of rhetoric resurfaces also in Barilli’s discussion of classical 
rhetoric, including Cicero’s and Quintilian’s extensive writings on the topic. What 
Cicero stresses, as Barilli points out, in particular in his “magnificent restructuring 
of Aristotle’s Organon,” that is, in his masterpiece De oratore, is not otium but 
negotium, the market place and not the country, the space where citizens, among 
their peers, engage in the res publica, in matters concerning the civic society and the 
state. The democratic impulse in Cicero is perhaps best demonstrated in his rigorous 
predilection for the trivium rather than the quadrivium in the education of the civis, 
and in his preference for rhetoric over dialectic. For it is rhetoric that guarantees the 
communicative connection with the people, whereas dialectic, more specialized, 
merely enables communicative practices among the specialists. 

Barilli’s understanding of the relation of rhetoric to notions of democracy, of the 
political potential of rhetoric, is perhaps not surprising in light of the fact that the 
history of rhetoric, and in particular the history of Roman rhetoric from Cicero to 
Quintilian, somewhat parallels the history of Roman jurisprudence and law. By this I 
mean that the history of rhetoric reflects, quite similar to the history of Roman 
jurisprudence and law, the important social, political as well as cultural 
transformations taking place as Rome changes from a republic to the principate. 
These transformations involve the public sphere as well. A largely homogeneous 
culture, governed by a largely homogeneous class, gives way, during the principate, 
to a more heterogeneous culture, governed by Romans often of foreign origin. The 
rhetoricians of the time were hardly insensitive to that great historical change, and 
the debates on rhetorics, in particular the Latin “querelle between the ancients and the 
moderns,” between Tacitus and the Ciceronians, clearly reflect a problematic dealing 
with the relation of rhetoric to control and power. The younger generation perceives a 
faster pace of time, and a lesser patience in the audience, thus recommending, against 
Cicero, shorter sentences in the practice of oratory. Quintilian, on the other hand, 
with his encyclopedic work on the training of an orator, the Jnstitutio oratoria, seems 
to want to master all the rhetorical skills available in order to encourage some control 
of the increasingly multi-cultural yet simultaneously gradually dissipating public 
sphere of a declining Roman empire. 

The author’s insights into the sociology of rhetorical knowledge in ancient 
rhetoric are brilliant. What I somewhat miss is an extension of these political 
insights to his discussion of the trajectory of rhetoric in the eighteenth century, 
where rhetoric barely survives somewhere in the interstices between poetics and 
aesthetics. I am thinking in particular of Immanuel Kant, where the principle of 
aesthetics in his Critique of Judgment can well be understood as an eminently 
democratic principle simultaneously linking, however precariously, and engaging, 
practical and pure reason. Kant’s de gustibus non disputandum est indeed seems to 
ground the autonomy of individual judgment and evoke the sovereignty of inalienable 
individual rights against the background of a fossilized and hierarchized political 
structure about to be dismantled by the French revolution. Yet Barilli makes up for 
missing this important historical detail concerning the rise of aesthetics in the 
enlightenment in more than one way. I will, in the remainder of this review, briefly 
focus on two issues which are particularly striking to me. The first concerns his 


424 Italian Bookshelf 


presentation of Renaissance poetics, and the second, which is not unrelated to the 
first, is his extraordinary dexterity in linking the history of rhetoric to the history of 
poetics. This relation almost always involves a horizon of references to the history 
of the sciences or natural philosophy as well. It is to Barilli’s enormous credit that he 
not only manages to invoke that horizon in a book of less than two hundred pages. 
What impresses me most is that he keeps in order the various threads that link the 
vicissitudes of the history of rhetoric to the adventures of the history of science. 

I think that most people who have had the fortune (or misfortune of having had) 
to study Renaissance poetics — students of Italian literature, let us say — probably 
remember that a high number of Italian intellectuals eagerly engaged in lengthy and 
often seemingly repetitive, dry, barren, and monotonous discussions of Aristotle’s 
poetics in the sixteenth century. I am thinking of names at random: Robertelli, 
Castelvetro, Fracastoro, Scaligero, etc. When inquiring about the possible reasons 
for this seemingly excessive production of poetic theories at that particular historical 
moment, and wondering as to why discourses on the origin and function of authentic 
poetry seemed to dominate the cultural sphere from the middle to the end of the 
sixteenth century, introductions to textbooks on Renaissance poetics are quick to 
point out simply that the rediscovery of Aristotle’s poetics in 1534 was all that 
mattered to trigger such an unprecedented interest in poetics. For those students for 
whom this response has remained puzzling and ultimately unsatisfactory due to its 
tautological underpinnings, Barilli’s present volume will help to tell more of a 
transparent story. 

In this context Barilli first of all brilliantly traces the reactions to Thomist 
Aristotelianism in the period of early humanism, thereby interpreting the discourse 
on poetry not as a “defense of poetry” (Boccaccio), but rather as an offensive on the 
part of the intelligentsia extraordinarily interested in ascribing to poetics, and the 
value it placed on fabula, a fixed place in the embattled trivium. This measure finds a 
further and much more radical elaboration with Coluccio Salutati, for instance, who 
endows poetry with the immense power of including not only the arts of the trivium 
but also those of the quadrivium. As Cicero, who invested rhetoric with the power to 
comprehend in itself both the natural and the human sciences, what we would now call 
the sciences and the humanities, Salutati invested the poetic with such a totalizing 
capacity. It is typical of humanism, according to Barilli, to transfer the primacy of 
rhetoric to the poetic. The reaction to scholasticism thus enabled a rediscovery of the 
practical moment in the human sciences under the aegis of poetics. Yet this 
rediscovery of the non-analytical and non-dialectical of and in poetics, of the 
interest, on the traces of Cicero, in the human sciences that validate community, 
citizenship and human interaction, and of endowing poetics with the power to engage 
with the subject of knowledge, indeed to enable the production of knowledge, was not 
without risks of its own. For while transferring the ideological component of rhetoric 
into the realm of poetics did entail an empowering legitimation of the human 
sciences (Lorenzo Valla) and thus of the public domain and political engagement, this 
transfer did not necessarily manage to keep the search for knowledge and its 
production in the public domain. In other words, a “literaturization of rhetorics” could 
set in, to use a term Barilli borrows from V. Florescu’s Retorica si reahilitarea e in 
filozofia contemporanea (Bucharest: 1960), something I would call a de- 
politicization of poetics, accompanied by a radical privatization of the search for the 


Italian Bookshelf 425 


foundations of knowledge and the criteria for truth. The “furor poeticus” of the Neo- 
Platonists of Ficino’s circle is one of the many phenomena which accompanies this 
“‘literaturization,” and it is in some ways a most apposite expression of that risk: the 
Neo-Platonists, by adopting, among many other strategies, the rhetoric developed by 
the Church Fathers, moved away from praxis and the public sphere towards the realm 
of Pseudo-Longinus and his/her notion of the sublime. 

From Barilli’s trajectory of sixteenth century poetics there emerges the view that 
many of the theorists dealing with poetics attempted to maintain the claims of the 
totalizing function of rhetoric or rather poetics as new sciences of powerful 
foundations begin to orbit on the horizon. Arguing for or against the exclusively 
cognitive and judgmental powers of the poetic as we know it from the Renaissance 
poetics are cultural practices which take place against the background of an embattled 
re-evaluation of the trivium and quadrivium, of the function and relation of 
philosophy (natural sciences) and oratory, and of what the relation of res and verba 
truly is. These I think are some of the larger problematics involved in many of the 
late Renaissance treatises on poetics; and Barilli, albeit again relying on Florescu, 
distinctly puts it like this: “the trivium is progressive when scientific research in 
physics and mathematics is weak and wrapped in superstition, and it becomes 
restraining when content-oriented sciences give signs of moving again” (63). The 
story of the scientific research of the period of those poetics cannot in the least be 
brought up here. Let it suffice to say that given the unprecedented historical march of 
science marking the beginnings of what is commonly called modernity, and given 
that this march initiates above all in Italy, then it should not be all that surprising 
that attempts to wrest from the fields of the natural sciences their powerful and 
foundational claim to truth would above all take place in Italian culture of the 
sixteenth century. Such a scenario would also throw some light on the discursive 
formations supporting baroque rhetorics and poetics. During that period, the search 
for the foundations of truth and knowledge is becoming ever more rigorous and 
acquires many techniques of its own, investing the critical reflections of baroque 
intellectuals as well. Barilli writes: “The theorists of the baroque are aware of living 
in a critical time during which the universe of knowledge is rapidly growing” (72). As 
a result, intellectuals such as Tesauro, Peregrini, and Pallavicino developed poetic and 
rhetorical theories on the basis of which they hoped they would be able to know and 
join the most remote aspects of knowledge rapidly increasing under the impact of 
scientific discoveries. Barilli calls the theoretical output of the baroque intellectuals a 
last effort to save the humanities from the sciences, so to speak. Releasing rhetoric 
from its propaedeutic function by assigning it a place on top of the curriculum, as the 
synthesis that holds all knowledge, was ingenious indeed. And perhaps it would not 
be irrelevant to comparatively study, against the background of baroque poetics, the 
eminent place and function of rhetoric, in particular in its form as deconstruction, in a 
historical moment which witnesses, as did the baroque period, an unprecedented 
explosion of knowledge: I am referring to the revolution of information technology 
propelling that which is often described as the postmodern and postmodernity. Yet 
we know that the theorists of the baroque were, like Don Quixote, inexorably unable 
to stop a process which was well underway. Cartesian rationalism with its 
concomitant mathematization of knowledge assumed the path of progress, and even 
Vico, who is often, and perhaps erroneously, credited with having rescued the 


426 Italian Bookshelf 


humanities from the hegemonic desires of the sciences, and for having delivered 
rhetoric, can only place, or desires to only place, rhetoric on the lowest part of his 
hierarchical educational program, as Barilli superbly outlines. Rhetoric is the first 
discipline children learn, and not the highest form of access to and distribution of 
knowledge as the baroque theorists, in their folly, had claimed. 

I cannot think of any other book at the moment which places the history of 
rhetoric, in its relation to the history of poetics and aesthetics, in a way that so 
efficaciously and brilliantly preserves rhetoric’s contest inthe grand contests of the 
faculties involving the sciences and humanities. Barilli highlights the uneasy 
historical alliances and equally uneasy historical ruptures between rhetoric and other 
disciplines, and addresses some of the epistemological stakes involved in such 
ruptures. Keeping a history of rhetoric related to the domain of natural philosophy 
and the human sciences is in my view one of the most successful features of Barilli’s 
book. Surely, this procedure had its price. What remains underemphasized is 
rhetoric’s important selective affinities with the history of jurisprudence. And in 
addition, in his discussion of the history of rhetoric in the twentieth century and its 
radical emphasis on probability, Barilli could perhaps have dealt more with the 
controversies in the sciences emerging from the laws of thermodynamics, the theory 
of relativity and quantum mechanics. What I have also and particularly in mind are 
recent theories of probability known under chaos theory which examine the self- 
organizing systems of dissipative structures in physics and biology not dissimilar to 
efforts taking place in what is historically linked to rhetoric: linguistics and 
communicative sciences. Barilli makes the choice of discussing MacLuhan when 
dealing with twentieth-century rhetoric, and perhaps this is ultimately more to the 
point. For MacLuhan’s depiction of information society, which heavily relies on 
television in order to produce and distribute ideological goods, a science which 
understands in minute detail the innumerable ways in which a message is packaged 
and sold is crucial for countering the hegemonic drives of those forces that control 
the dissipation of information. A renaissance of rhetoric is under those terms more 
than welcome. Indeed, since television engages not only the ear, but also the eye, all 
the aspects of rhetoric — inventio, dispositio, elocutio, memoria, and even actio or 
performance, long neglected in the rhetorical treatise of an age that privileged the 
written word or the ear over visual performance — can be utilized in an analysis of the 
ways in which the public is told of what there is and why. If Barilli had his way, a 
critical rhetoric could, in our media age, again assume one of its oldest functions: to 
purview the public sphere. 

In conclusion I would like to state that Barilli’s attention to a discussion of 
rhetoric in our age is but one of many very good reasons for having this book now 
available in English. The editor of Minnesota Press who decided to have this book 
translated has perhaps done it for different reasons. Perhaps he/she was merely 
interested in getting an Italian book into a series which is mostly dominated by 
French and German critical texts. This in itself would be laudable. Yet what perhaps is 
most exciting is that Giuliana Menozzi’s translation of Barilli’s book makes 
available to an anglophone audience a difficult and complex story told with immense 
skill and talent, the story of a history, of rhetoric, which Barilli tells at a moment of 
radical and sometimes aggressive promotion of anti-historical thinking arising from 
large parts of the postmodern camp. Barilli could not have been more persuasive than 


Italian Bookshelf 427 


when he intuits why such a story, and knowledge of it, is of utmost relevance today. 


Renate Holub, University of California, Berkeley 


Italian Feminist Thought. A Reader. Ed. Paola Bono and Sandra 
Kemp. Cambridge: Basil Blackwell, 1991. Pp. 458 


Coming from the South @ il titolo che Paola Bono e Sandra Kemp hanno dato 
all’introduzione del volume curato. Un titolo illuminante che colloca subito il 
pensiero italiano nell’ambito di quella “geografia speculativa internazionale” 
largamente egemonizzata da Francia e Stati Uniti. Egemonia che si basa, tra 1’altro, 
sull’anacronistico e banalizzante assunto che vorrebbe la Francia elaboratrice di 
analisi estremamente sofisticate ma politicamente impraticabili (teoria), e gli Stati 
Uniti produttori di un “pensiero” fondamentalmente empirico (prassi). 

Venire dal Sud significa quindi — in questa (ironicamente maschile) opposizione 
binaria — situarsi: riconoscere cioé il proprio posto in una mappa dei poteri 
legittimata da meccanismi di tipo economico. Implica il definire la propria identita 
unicamente sulla base di similarita o disuguaglianze con un modello dominante e 
comporta l’accettazione della propria marginalita. Ma vuol dire anche e soprattutto, 
suggeriscono le curatrici, essere consapevoli della novita e della dimensione 
potenzialmente eversiva della propria enunciazione. Ed é quest’aspetto della metafora 
adottata — specificita e/o originalita — che Paola Bono e Sandra Kemp hanno 
privilegiato. Offrono cosi un libro pionieristico, di cui c’era tra l’altro bisogno visto 
che su questo argomento pcchissimo é@ stato pubblicato negli Stati Uniti, e che 
studiose italiane famose come Teresa De Lauretis e Rosi Braidotti si muovono 
comunque nell’ambito di contesti culturali stranieri al cui dibattito teorico 
appartengono in toto: Stati Uniti e Francia (Olanda). Le due curatrici contribuiscono 
inoltre a rendere pit dialettico, sfaccettato e “‘politicamente corretto” quel fenomeno, 
il femminismo, che, come dice Gayatry Spivak, non pud pill essere pensato se non 
come una serie di etnicamente diversi e tutti egualmente legittimati “-ismi". 

Italian Feminist Thought. A Reader é un’ antologia che offre a lettori e lettrici una 
buona idea generale di cosa sia il femminismo italiano. Diviso in due parti — /talian 
Ferninist Groups: A Survey of Positions e Changing the Context: Ways and Means of 
Sexualizing Politics — il libro presenta prima una varieta di associazioni e 
atteggiamenti che costituiscono il poliedrico fronte femminista; analizza poi 
l’azione politica delle donne in relazione a leggi e istituzioni vigenti. Lo fa 
selezionando testi significativi (in qualche caso ormai “storici”) delle posizioni 
assunte dai vari gruppi nell’arco di un ventennio. Ma cos’é, in sostanza, il 
femminismo italiano? 

Impossibile — sostengono Paola Bono e Sandra Kemp — rispondere in modo 
unitario visto che @ un insieme di “pratiche e saperi” estremamente composito, 
contraddittorio e diversificato, segnato inoltre da una storia di conflitti sia con la 
legge del Padre che intestini. Non insensibili ad “‘influssi nordici” — vedi la fortuna 
di Luce Irigaray presso i gruppi milanesi o 1’importazione negli anni ’70 a Roma della 
pratica dell’autocoscienza — le donne italiane hanno elaborato un femminismo 


428 Italian Bookshelf 


inconfondibilmente politico. Questo, coerentemente con una struttura sociale in cui i 
dibattiti culturali mobilitano l’intervento dialettico di forze molto eterogenee. Non 
solo. In Italia il femminismo, meglio che in altri paesi, sintetizza in una prassi 
unitaria elaborazione teorica e concreta interazione con strutture e leggi esistenti. 

A differenza ad esempio degli Stati Uniti, dove gli Women’s Studies 
costituiscono un’area di elaborazione teorica a cui |’Universita conferisce legittimita 
e autorevolezza, le femministe italiane non si sono mai mosse in ambiti istituzionali. 
Hanno cioé sempre praticato il loro sapere in quegli spazi necessariamente altri 
costituiti dai Centri delle Donne tipo — per cit.are solo i pit famosi — La Libreria 
delle Donne di Milano (1975) e il Centro femminista Virginia Woolf (alias Universita 
delle Donne) di Roma (1979). Necessariamente sia perché non erano pensabili, fino a 
poco fa, ambiti istituzionali che accogliessero un pensiero “dissidente”, sia perché 
uno spazio autogestito accessibile a donne di istruzione e attivita molto varie — da 
libere professioniste a casalinghe a studentesse ed operaie — ha consentito di 
articolare in modo del tutto autonomo e con varie, spesso emotive modalita, il 
concetto di soggettivita femminile. E, altro fenomeno tipicamente italiano, la 
riflessione collettiva ha dato vita a una serie di pubblicazioni e riviste autofinanziate 
sorte un po’ dappertutto: DWF (DonnaWomanFemme) a Roma (1975), Sottosopra 
(1973) a Milano, Leggere donna (1980) a Ferrara, Mediterranea (1990) a Cosenza 
ecc. Sono riviste molto diverse che raccolgono complessi saggi di tipo accademico 
(DWF o Reti), recensioni di libri (Leggere donna), commenti su eventi politici (// 
paese delle donne) o, ancora, articoli sul rapporto donna e leggi (D/D — Donne e 
diritto—). I periodici riflettono inoltre, con la loro dislocazione, la tendenza 
regionalistica e geograficamente decentrata del femminismo italiano. 

Tra gli apporti pit’ nuovi e interessanti recentemente articolati dalle donne c’é 
senz’altro il “pensiero della differenza”, punta di diamante di quella sofisticata attivita 
speculativa cresciuta nonostante l’ostracismo delle Universita. “Pensiero della 
differenza” 0, come lo definirebbe Adriana Cavarero — filosofia del gruppo Diotima 
di Verona che l’ha elaborato — un “cogito” in cui la “differenza dell’essere sessuati” 
non sia completamente sussunta, e quindi cancellata, nel soggetto maschile) 
universale neutro: “On the one hand, man, the subject who reigned over discourse, 
universalizing and making absolute the partiality of his sex, also included and 
assimilated me. Man spoke and thought also for my sex, actively contributing to 
keeping it ‘unthought.’ The unease stemming from this double neutralization was 
once very clearly and forcibly expressed by a woman philosopher at a meeting in 
Naples: “When I am a philosopher, I am not a woman” (183). Se il gruppo veronese 
ha contribuito a rilanciare la discussione su basi esclusivamente filosofiche, altri 
gruppi sostengono e promuovono un impegno sociale che sfida l’ordine patriarcale 
nelle sue concrete attuazioni. Nella seconda parte del volume Paola Bono e Sandra 
Kemp hanno raccolto una serie di testi che indica la valenza fortemente socio-politica 
dell’interventismo femminile. Basti considerare il dibattito sorto attorno all’aborto, 
o alla proposta di salario per le casalinghe; alle riflessioni generate 
dall’appropriazione dei media del “Caso Moro” e, ultimamente, al problema della 
Rappresentazione Politica. Ciascun dibattito ha generato analisi collaterali, 
catalizzando una ridiscussione pit! ampia e approfondita dell’argomento iniziale. Nel 
caso deli’aborto ha portato alla denuncia di una sessualita mirata esclusivamente alla 
procreazione e che privilegia il piacere maschile. In un intervento del 1971, 


Italian Bookshelf 429 


un’anonima appartenente a Rivolta Femminile, getta nuova luce sul processo di 
interruzione della gravidanza quando dice: “When a woman gets pregnant, and has not 
wanted to, this has not happened because she has expressed herself sexually, but 
rather because she has adapted herself to the sexual act and pattern which are certainly 
favoured by the patriarchal male. . . . The pleasure imposed by man on women leads to 
procreation, and it is on the basis of procreation that male culture drew the line 
between natural and unnatural sexuality . . .” (214-15). E, nelle recenti discussioni 
sull’interazione donna/politica, l’accento @ stato posto su come un 7% di 
rappresantanti al Parlamento — percentuale invariata in quarant’anni di governo — 
possa in realta dirsi “democratico” e autenticamente rappresentativo. 

Italian Feminist Thought é, riassumendo, un volume indispensabile per chiunque 
voglia sapere — leggendo testi originali — cos’é il femminismo italiano e desideri 
inquadrarlo in una accurata prospettiva storico-cronologica. Come riconoscono le 
stesse curatrici, la forma antologica, oltre ad essere limitante, riflette inevitabilmente 
preferenze ed idiosincrasie personali. E forse la panoramica generale — per chi 
conosce certi aspetti settari e aggressivamente separatisti della prassi femminista 
italiana, specie del lesbofemminismo — pud sembrare un tantino idillica. Ma a parte 
questo il libro @ un’autentica miniera di notizie: oltre a prefare ogni gruppo ed 
iniziativa presentata, offre anche un indice ragionato dei periodici femministi italiani 
e una bibliografia di quanto pubblicato a partire dal 1963. 


Anna Maria Torriglia, The University of Chicago 


Silvia Vegetti Finzi. Il bambino della notte: divenire donna 
divenire madre. Milano: Mondadori, 1990. Pp. 278. 


Il bambino della notte offre un’esauriente analisi del processo di formazione 
femminile, figlia-donna-madre, partendo dall’immagine inconscia, titolo dell’opera, 
che predispone la bambina al suo ruolo materno. Docente di psicologia dinamica 
all’Universita di Pavia, l’autrice vede nella “posizione e funzione materna in seno alla 
famiglia e alla societa . . . una costante storica . . . che si incrinera soltanto nel corso 
di questo ultimo secolo” (7) permettendo l’esercizio di una sessualita non pit volta 
alla procreazione. 

Il primo capitolo, “Divenire donna”, @ centrato su due anni di psicoterapia 
infantile. Anna, che ha nove anni, “sta vivendo il dilemma della sessuazione, che 
comporta l’accettazione della parzialita su uno sfondo di nostalgia per la completezza 
impossibile (essere Uno, essere Tutto) sperimentata un tempo nell’unita fusionale 
con la madre” (20). L’autrice sottolinea come al momento della separazione, il 
passato si storicizza e sembra definirsi come preistoria. Anna sogna e parla di una 
guerra atomica fatale che é per la psicologa “il residuo mnesico di un avvenimento 
interno, di una ‘catastrofe silenziosa’” (33) che l’ha portata alla distruzione del 
mondo per salvare 1’Io. L’acquisizione dell’identita sessuale comporta la rinuncia 
all’immaginario onnipotente, il riconoscimento particolarmente doloroso per la 
bambina della mancanza del fallo. Anna é uscita dalla relazione diadica con la madre e 


. 


“si @ iscritta nella struttura triadica dove soltanto alligna la gelosia” (49). La 


430 Italian Bookshelf 


consapevolezza della propria mancanza non garantisce un’identita sessuata al 
femminile, il raggiungimento di tale identita presuppone per la Vegetti Finzi “un 
ulteriore lavoro dell’immaginario che non é stato previsto da Freud” (61). Infatti, 
Freud avrebbe trascurato “la specificita del compito riproduttivo e delle sue relative 
rappresentazioni psichiche, senza riconoscere che la maternita comporta una 
temporalita che non coincide con quella dello sviluppo maschile” (63). 

La bambina diviene donna quando si riconosce “non tutta”, e si pone nell’attesa 
del fallo e del bambino che si congiungono nell’inconscio. Nel maschio 1’amore per 
la madre si sposta su altre donne, mentre per la bambina é necessario abbandonare la 
madre come oggetto d’amore per sostituirla con una figura maschile. A questo punto 
l’inconscio femminile si configura “come un recipiente vuoto di un contenuto che 
giungera dall’esterno” (93). 

Il secondo capitolo cerca di ricostruire, ricorrendo all’antropologia, il motivo di 
tale configurazione. L’autrice analizza fra altri il mito cosmogonico pit antico, 
l’Enuma Elish. Dopo l’autogenerazione del mondo ad opera di Tiamat, la divinita 
originaria femminile, “ogni sua successiva riproduzione avverra esclusivamente ad 
opera di un principio maschile” (115). La generativita femminile diventa 
accoglimento mentre la fantasia femminile continua a rappresentarsi la 
partenogenesi. Il bambino della notte, prodotto dalla specularita della madre con la 
figlia, “si iscrive nella terna femminile, ove la bambina occupa la posizione 
intermedia, partecipe sia di quella materna, sia di quella filiale” (119). L’autrice 
sottolinea la tenacia con la quale Aristotele riconosce i principi della riproduzione nel 
maschio e nella femmina. Delle quattro cause, il padre é portatore della formale, finale 
ed efficiente, mentre alla madre é€ riservata quella materiale. “La metafora della terra e 
del seme, che organizza la teoria aristotelica, é in questo senso decisiva; alla femmina 
spetta soltanto un compito di contenimento e di nutrizione” (135). Misconosciuta nel 
suo apporto, la donna viene classificata per secoli fisiologicamente e 
ontologicamente inferiore. 

Il terzo capitolo @ un’acuta analisi dell’impreparazione femminile al compito 
generativo e della coordinazione tra maternita e sessualita. Mentre si rivela 
un’analogia tra i maschi dell’uomo e quelli delle altre specie, le femmine sono uniche 
dal punto di vista sessuale, e questa loro unicita dipenderebbe da modificazioni 
sopravvenute, fra le quali la perdita dell’estrus, a sua volta legata 
all’addomesticamento delle donne. L’autrice a questo punto sottolinea come la 
maternita umana non possa essere considerata solo un comportamento naturale, ma 
neppure un comportamento socialmente indotto, si situa “in una posizione di cerniera 
tra cl1O che presupponiamo essere naturale e la collocazione storica dei suoi agenti, tra 
il substrato preverbale e le formazioni discorsive” (182). Il matrimonio si delinea 
quindi come una forma di controllo ai fini della riproduzione. “Tl matrimonio segna il 
prevalere della sessualita generativa” (195) e consacra “la donna dell’uomo, quella che 
esegue la maternita . . . che consegna il suo nato alla potesta del padre” (197). In 
questi ultimi anni si @ visto lo sforzo della donna per trovare una nuova realta, per 
diventare “la donna di se stessa”. Di conseguenza, la maternita, vista per millenni 
come destino, é ora libera scelta. 

L’ultimo capitolo esamina le metafore di maternita con lo scopo di “recuperare la 
capacita femminile di procreare nel corpo e nell’anima, la comunanza con gli animali 
e con gli dei, che costituisce lo statuto specifico della generazione umana” (222). 


Italian Bookshelf 431 


La Vegetti Finzi insiste sulla solitudine della donna di fronte alla maternita, che é 
un evento incancellabile ed allo stesso tempo “un gesto di obbedienza a una volonta 
altra di cui non si conosce il volto o la voce” (248). Il rapporto tra madre e figlio é@ 
analizzato nella sua potenzialita e l’autrice vi vede un paradigma etico, capace di 
grandi mutamenti sociali. I] libro si conclude liricamente sull’impensato della nostra 
epoca, sulla maternitaé cioé vista “come l’estrema possibilita, per le donne, di 
capovolgere l’esito di una sconfitta storica che si colloca agli esordi dell’umanita ma 
che ancora estende la sua ombra sulla nostra incompiuta identita” (261). 

Il bambino della notte @ un affascinante viaggio nel mondo femminile 
dell’inconscio, nelle varie tappe del divenire donna e madre, e nello stesso tempo é 
una solida ed aggiornata introduzione alla psicanalisi, un profondo sguardo di donna 
sulla donna che non dovrebbe mancare di coinvolgere e interessare chi voglia 
conoscere di pit sul proprio essere. 


Rosalia Colombo Ascari, Sweet Briar College 


Books’ Received 


Ariosto, Ludovico. Five Cantos. Trans. and introd. Leslie Z. Morgan. New York: 
Garland, 1992. Pp. 126. 


Barolsky, Paul. Giotto’s Father and the Family of Vasari’s Lives. University Park: 
The Pennsylvania State UP, 1992. Pp. 138. 


Bendinelli Predelli, Maria. Alle origini del Bel Gherardino. Biblioteca dell’ Archivum 
Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 236. Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 360. 
Benson, Pamela Joseph. The Invention of the Renaissance Woman: The Challenge of 


Female Independence in the Literature and Thought of Italy and England. 
University Park: The Pennsylvania State UP, 1992. Pp. 325, 


Carrera, Alessandro. The Perfect Bride. La sposa perfetta. Tr. the author. English 
version ed. D. F. Brown. Houston: THORN Books, 1992. Pp. 126. 


Carugati, Giuliana. Dalla menzogna al silenzio. La scrittura mistica della Commedia 
di Dante. Bologna: I] Mulino, 1991. Pp. 154. 


Cavallini, Giorgio. Momenti tendenze aspetti della prosa narrativa italiana moderna e 
contemporanea. Biblioteca di cultura 443. Roma: Bulzoni: 1992. Pp. 392. 


Dalle Vacche, Angela. The Body in the Mirror. Shapes of History in Italian Cinema. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1991. Pp. 306. 

Dictionary of Literary Biography. Vol. 114. Twentieth-Century Italian Poets. First 
ser. Ed. Giovanna Wedel De Stasio, Glauco Cambon, and Antonio Illiano. 
Detroit: A Bruccoli Clark Layman Book; Gale Research, 1992. Pp. 417. 

Documentary Culture. Florence and Rome from Grand-Duke Ferdinand I to Pope 
Alexander VII. Papers from a colloquium held at the Villa Spelman, Florence, 
1990. Ed. Elizabeth Cropper, Giovanna Perini, and Francesca Solinas. Introd. 
Elizabeth Cropper. Villa Spelman Colloquia 3. Bologna: Nuova Alfa; distributed 
by Johns Hopkins UP, 1992. Pp. 406 + 81 pp. of illustrations. 

Domenico, Roy Palmer. /talian Fascists on Trial. 1943-48. Chapel Hill: The U of 
North Carolina P, 1991. Pp. 296. 

Doplicher, Fabio. Selected Poems. Trans. Gaetano A. Iannace. Rev. Ruth Feldman. 
Pref. Pietro Frassica. Afterw. Mario M. Mignone. New York: Garland, 1992. Pp. 
95% 


Dozon, Marthe. Mythe et symbole dans la Divine comédie. Biblioteca dell’ Archivum 
Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 233. Firenze: Olschki, 1991. Pp. 632. 

Emery, Ted. Goldoni as Librettist: Theatrical Reform and the drammi giocosi per 
musica. Studies in Italian Culture: Literature in History, 3. New York: Peter Lang, 
1991. Pp. 238. 

Esperienze letterarie. Indice quindicennale 1976-1990. Quaderi di Esperienze 
letterarie 2. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1991. 


Esposito, Enzo. Bibliografia analitica degli scritti su Dante 1950-1970. Dantologia. 


Books Received 433 


Pubblicazioni del Centro Bibliografico Dantesco, 1. 4. vols. Firenze: Olschki, 
1990. 

Finucci, Valeria. The Lady Vanishes. Subjectivity and Representation in Castiglione 
and Ariosto. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1992. Pp. 329. 

Foscolo, Ugo. Jl sesto tomo dell'io. Nuova Universale Einaudi 206. Critical ed. and 
comm. Vincenzo Di Benedetto. Torino: Einaudi, 1991. Pp. 289. 


Glassman, Nina. Lettere proibite. I Cimenti del principe Vincenzo Gonzaga. Pleiadi, 
41. Ravenna: Longo, 1991. Pp. 182. 

Guidacci, Margherita. Landscape with Ruins. Selected Poetry of Margherita Guidacci. 
Trans. Ruth Feldman. Introd. GianPaolo Biasin. Detroit: Wayne State UP, 1992. 
Pp. 123. 


Illiano, Antonio. Per l’esegesi del Corbaccio. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1991, Pp. 
104. 


Javitch, Daniel. Proclaiming a Classic. The Canonization of Orlando furioso. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1991. Pp. 206. 


Lectura Dantis Newberryana. Ed. Paolo Cherchi and Antonio C. Mastrobuono. Vol. 2. 
Lectures presented at The Newberry Library, Chicago, IIl., 1985-87. Evanston: 
Northwestern UP, 1990. Pp. 186. 


La letteratura dell’ emigrazione. Gli scrittori di lingua italiana nel mondo. Ed. Jean- 
Jacques Marchand. Torino: Edizioni della Fondazione Giovanni Agnelli, 1991. 
Pp. 640. 


Letteratura italiana. Aggiornamento bibliografico. Anno 1 (1991): 1-2. Pp. 304. 


Lorenzo de’ Medici. Selected Poems and Prose. Ed. Jon Thiem. Trans. Jon Thiem and 
others. University Park: The Pennsylvania State UP, 1991. Pp. 192. 


Maceri, Domenico. Dalla novella alla commedia pirandelliana. American University 
Studies. Ser. 2, Romance Languages and Literatures, 165. New York: Peter Lang, 
1991. Pp. 180. 


Mastrobuono, Antonio C. Dante's Journey of Sanctification. Washington, D.C.: 
Regnery Gateway, 1990. Pp. 279. 

McGregor, James H. The Image of Antiquity in Boccaccio’s Filocolo, Filostrato, and 
Teseida. Studies in Italian Culture: Literature in History. Aldo Scaglione General 
Editor, vol. 1. New York: Peter Lang, 1991. Pp. 192. 


Neppi, Enzo. Soggetto e fantasia. Figure dell’ autobiografia. Saggi critici 26. Collana 
diretta da A. Pizzorusso e E. Raimondi. Ospedaletto (Pisa): Pacini, 1991. Pp. 
184. 

Pelosi, Olimpia. Satira barocca e teoriche sul genere dal Cinque all’ Ottocento. 
Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1991. Pp. 120. 

Prier, Raymond Adolph, ed. Countercurrents: On the Primacy of Texts in Literary 
Criticism. Introd. Raymond Adolph Prier. Albany: State U of New York P, 1992. 
Pp. 302. 


434 Books Received 


Quétes d'une identité collective chez les italiens de la Renaissance: Alberti, 
Guichardin, Speroni, Sienne au XV® siécle, le Tasse. Ed. Marina Marietti et al. 
Centre interuniversitaire de recherche sur la Renaissance italienne. Vol. 18. 
Paris: Université de la Sorbonne nouvelle, 1990. Pp. 446. 


Quinones, Ricardo J. The Changes of Cain. Violence and the Lost Brother in Cain and 
Abel Literature. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1991. Pp. 284. 


Re, Lucia. Calvino and the Age of Neorealism: Fables of Estrangement. Stanford: 
Stanford UP, 1990. Pp. 420. 


Ricciardelli, Michele. Writings on Twentieth Century Italian Literature: 1964-1984. 
Filibrary 3. Forum Italicum, 1992. Pp. 117. 

Robin, Diana. Filelfo in Milan. Writings 1451-1477. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1991. Pp. 269. 

Sacchetti, Franco. // libro delle rime. Ed. Franca Brambilla Ageno. Italian Medieval 


and Renaissance Studies, 1. The University of Western Australia. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1990. Pp. 534. 


Scaglione, Aldo. Knights at Court. Courtliness, Chivalry, & Courtesy from Ottonian 
Germany to the Italian Renaissance. Berkeley: U of California P, 1991. Pp. 490. 

Schiesari, Juliana. The Gendering of Melancholia. Feminism, Psychoanalysis, and 
the Symbolics of Loss in Renaissance Literature. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1992. Pp. 
218. 

Shearsmen of Sorts. Italian Poetry 1975-1993. Ed. Luigi Ballerini. Special Issue of 
Forum italicum. A Journal of Italian Studies. Italian Poetry Supplement 1992. 
Pp. 647. 

Sorella, Antonio. Magia, lingua e commedia nel Machiavelli. Biblioteca 
dell’Archivum Romanicum, ser. 1, vol. 238. Firenze: Olschki, 1990. Pp. 264. 

Studi d’italianistica nell'Africa australe. Italian Studies in Southern Africa. 4.2 
(1991)... Pp. 116. 

Tamburri, Anthony Julian, Paolo A. Giordano, and Fred L. Gardaphé. From the 
Margin: Writings in Italian Americana. West Lafayette: Purdue UP, 1991. Pp. 
468. 

Urgnani, Elena. Sogni e visioni. Massimo Bontempelli fra surrealismo e futurismo. 
L’interprete, 50. Ravenna: Longo, 1991. Pp. 156. 

Vallone, Aldo. Livelli di critica e prosa. Studi da Baretti a Flora. Modena: Mucchi, 
1992. Pp. 189. 

Zangrilli, Franco. La voce e la storia. Ispirazione religiosa nell’ opera di Rodolfo 
Doni. Firenze: Cultura Nuova, 1992. Pp. 158. 


The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Department of Romance languages 
237 Dey Hall, CB # 3170 
University of N. Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 


* 


Studies in the Romance Languages and Literatures 
Maria A. Salgado, Editor 


Recent Titles 
Kathleen Hunt Dolan. Cyclopean Song: Melancholy and 
Aestheticism in Géngora’s “Fabula de Polifemo y Galatea.” 
Bridget Aldaraca. El dngel del hogar: Galdés and the Ideology of 
Domesticity in Spain. 
J. Kozma-Southall. The Architecture of Imagery in A. Moravia’s 
Fiction (forthcoming). 


* 
Hispanéfila 
Fred M. Clark, Editor 


Hispanéfila appears three times each year, publishing articles 
and book reviews on Hispanic and Luzo-Brazilian topics. 
Rates: $21.00; students: 8.00. 


* 


Romance Notes 
Edward Montgomery, Editor 


Romance Notes appears three times each year, publishing notes 
from 6-8 pages on all Romance topics. Notes are published in 
English, Catalan, French, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. In 
recent years, most submissions have been on French and Spanish 
topics. We encourage submissions on subjects dealing with other 
Romance languages, especially Italian and Portuguese. 
Rates: $18.00; students: 8:00 





AN INVITATION TO SUBSCRIBE 


Annali d’Italianistica 


VOLUMES SOLD OUT: 


volume 1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo (unbound photocopy available) 
volume 2 (1984), Guicciardini (unbound photocopy available) 


VOLUMES AVAILABLE: 
volume 3 (1985), Manzoni 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
volume 6 (1988), Film and Literature 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
volume 9 (1991), Italy 1991: the Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of Columbus and the New World 

in Italian Literature 


VOLUMES IN PREPARATION: 
volume 11 (1993), Goldoni and 18th-Century Theater 
volume 12 (1994), The Italian Epic & Its European Context 


Subscriptions: Domestic: Regular $12; Institutions $19; back 
issues: add $3 for postage. Foreign subscribers (Canada 
excluded): $21. Checks in U. S. currency should be made 

payable to Annali d’Italianistica, CB # 3170, 141 Dey Hall, The 

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 

27599-3170. 


Subscriber: 
Name 

Address 

Check enclosed 


ISSN 0741-7527 














were at 7] 


Gradustes | Studies 
fa Romane Languages nnd L.terstured 


aie a caTis Rsmamas COABSAN teal imivtmerns or ike 
een at ee Coline st Oe ee 
he 1909, Boke ite divdepcished past Of betaremtiendiy keown 
faculty ond slame® w 4 itvelp ond Chatp indafiocea! eurhange 
L fe dhe precems. The Ocpartiment fers WLA, Cogree to Prevch, 
© | fiation, Portugese, oe Spanish fhe POD, Gegred 4 offered th 
Preach, Thelteo. Turtuguese, tpanisk, and ty Romance 
PRiatig. 






Pucelty, Thirty-dive fllvime poet acre ech tn we Department 
Sa yee Ps vitor) cal! pam 


















7 * 
Pubtirations, The fi. cicncat af “ea@ence Lamgeepes end Ltrcrtipres 
publica Homme Miuiet, The University of Namh Colvius Soudiet tn ihe 
flamasicn Langeagpe cd Lacretiret, Mirpe eit, eek Mandi 2 scadhantrn ca, 


Libvers Boctitiea, ‘Ta Uoiverity of Norh Cnllew hos Litrary cootai 
over 300,000 eohnnes, Coline prac: eal dhe Onley ew Roscarch tuudon 
(ing! Uletversity theny elites. Th Cocperaden peecatine end fh | 
page w icy Duke Uniegesity wed Month Camima tie Whiversdy soe ani 
moees 14 theo Goldings tha: cangpiawent the Ureree ee oo North Carotina 
Hiweriea, 







Pollwshipe dad Teacning AviManthiga. The Dayartcmem flere 

ms fetiowshipy aed coaching seslstantahipe Cicadoage Sut Me 
Sepowdhins (inchedng hunted aching amigawenmy 39,000-15,000, in 
aidition in wiaching sipencs ef 43, 700 per secGon per eecntarer, eahywoenet 
enable die Deysruadns to offey supplerneatnd scholaddps of $1,000-2,000 10 
qualified spaéeits. Mou tadente tame’ twin oe Orde sopthuns of toying 


pe» anata la socorving ke togis — 
me : \ 


enacd 







Admisdics. Apptication forms for admiction w the Oradiaags Sebnal abd to 
ibe Depmncar of Romangy Langungrs amd Lincrencns may be obtrioed by 
wetting, too ‘Tho Cemtauw Secreiney, Cepartapen ef Momence Laoguegt and 
Liageagees, CB ATNY 238 By Hall, Chap) Md, NE 27999-3170. 
eich a hentehas -<hammima meme alms Penk admission 


| 7 Ee 








University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 







The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the 

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 

1909, links its distinguished past of internationally known 
faculty and alumni to a lively and timely intellectual exchange 
in the present. The Department offers M.A. degrees in French, 
Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. The Ph.D. degree is offered in 

French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and in Romance 

Philology. 
















Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. 











Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispanofila, and Annali d’Italianistica. 










Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 3,500,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. The Cooperative purchasing and borrowing 
programs with Duke University and North Carolina State University give easy 
access to those holdings that complement the University of North Carolina 
libraries. 












Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers 
numerous fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit 
Fellowships (including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-15,000; in 
addition to teaching stipends of $3,700 per section per semester, endowments 
enable the Department to offer supplemental scholarships of $1,000-2,000 to 
qualified students. Most students teach two or three sections of beginning 
language courses per academic year, according to their teaching experience and 
the University’s needs. 











Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to 
the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by 
writing to: The Graduate Secretary, Department of Romance Languages and 
Literatures, CB # 3170, 238 Dey Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 
Applicants requesting fellowships and assistantships must submit admission 
materials by February 1. 








AdlI 


Annali d’Italianistica 


1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 
2 (1984), Guicciardini 
3 (1985), Manzoni 
4 (1986), Autobiography 
5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
°6 (1988), Film and Literature 
7 (1989), Women’s Voices 
8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
9 (1991), Italy 1991: The Modern & the Postmodern 
10 (1992), Images of America & Columbus. 


Subscription rates. Domestic: Regular $12; institutions $19; back issues: add 
$3 for postage. Foreign subscribers: $21. Checks in U. S. currency should be 
made payable to Annali d’Italianistica. Address all correspondence to: The 
‘Editor, Annali d’ Italianistica, Dey Hall 141, The University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. Shipping date: First week of December. 





ISSN 0741-7527 


