Wi 


4! 
i Ay 


| i A 
ti} 
by A 





AdI 


ANNALI D’ITALIANISTICA 


The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27599-3170 


EDITOR 
Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Paolo Cherchi, The University of Chicago 
Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Edoardo A. Lébano, /ndiana University 
Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 


ADVISORY BOARD 
Luigi Ballerini, University of California, Los Angeles 
Andrea Battistini, Universita degli Studi, Bologna 
Ernesto G. Caserta, Duke University 
Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi, Firenze 
Franco Fido, Harvard University 
Cecil Grayson, Magdalen College, Oxford 
Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 
Christopher Kleinhenz, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi, Lecce 
Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 
Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 
Paolo Valesio, Yale University 
Aldo Vallone, Universita degli Studi, Napoli 
Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 


© 1996 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


ANNALI D’ITALIANISTICA 


L’ODEPORICA / HODOEPORICS: ON TRAVEL LITERATURE 


VOLUME 14, 1996 
EDITED BY LUIGI MONGA 





5 Hodoeporics ? 

INTRODUCTION 

6 LUIGI MONGA, Travel and Travel Writing: An Historical Overview of 
Hodoeporics 


ON TRAVEL LITERATURE THEORIES / SAGGI SULLA TEORIA DELL’ODEPORICA 
ESSAIS SUR LA THEORIE DE LA LITTERATURE DE VOYAGE 
ENSAYOS SOBRE LA LITERATURA DE VIAJE 


55 THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR., An Italian Literary History of Travel 

65 JAIME FERRAN, Viaje y literatura 

7 ADRIEN PASQUALI, Récit de voyage et autobiographie 

89 MICHEL BIDEAUX, Le Voyage d’Italie, instrument de la connaissance de 
soi par la fréquentation d’autrui 

103 GENE TESELLE, Looking for Home: Travel as Metaphor in Augustine 

121 TOM CONLEY, Virtual Reality and the \solario 

131 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER, EI libro de viajes, la ficcién y sus legados en los 
Naufragios de Alvar Nifiez Cabeza de Vaca 

145 NANCY WALKER, Stepping Out: Writing Women’s Travel 


L’ODEPORICA NELLA LETTERATURA ITALIANA 
TRAVEL WRITING AND ITALIAN LITERATURE 


152 ALFONSO PAOLELLA, Petrarca, peregrinus an viator? 

177. MARCELLO CIccuTO, L’odeporica di Ciriaco d’Ancona tra testi e immagini 

183. FRANCESCO SBERLATI, Esplorazione geografica e antropologia: esperienze 
di viaggio tra ’400 e ’500 

206 MARZIANO GUGLIELMINETTI, La forma dell’America 

218 DARIA PEROcCcO, Le parole di un cartografo: Giacomo Gastaldi e la 
Universale descrittione del mondo 

230 ALBERTN. MANCINI, Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa nel Viaggio 
di Francia di Sebastiano Locatelli 

246 STEFANIA BUCCINI, Coerenza metodologica nel Giro del mondo di Fran- 
cesco Gemelli Carreri 

257 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI, Francesco Algarotti, viaggiatore e letterato 

271 LucACLericl, Alla scoperta del Bel Paese: i titoli delle testimonianze dei 
viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 


304 


326 
341 
sol 


MIRELLA SCRIBONI, // viaggio al femminile in Oriente nell’Ottocento: la 
Principessa di Belgioioso, Amalia Nizzoli e Carla Serena 

LUCIANO PARISI, J libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 
GIUSEPPE STRAZZERI, Scrittori su ruote: l’esperienza della rivista Pirelli 
DAVIDE PAPOTTI, Con il libro in valigia: eredita odeporiche nel romanzo 
contemporaneo 


FOREIGN TRAVELERS TO ITALY / VIAGGIATORI STRANIERI IN ITALIA 
VOYAGEURS ETRANGERS EN ITALIE / VIAJEROS EXTRANJEROS EN ITALIA 


363 


398 


409 


425 
437 


452 
466 


483 


493 


507 


323 
352 


542 


MICHEL BASTIAENSEN, Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes 
volcaniques en Italie 

FRANK LESTRINGANT, Une fiction archéologique: l’invention du tombeau 
de Cicéron a Zante de Favolius a Thevet 

GEORGES VAN DEN ABEELE, Goodbye, Columbus: Mme du Bocage and 
the Alienation of Identity 

PATRIZIO ROSSI, Jl carnevale di Venezia e i viaggiatori del Settecento 
DIANA MODESTO, Moments of the Italian Risorgimento: The Works of the 
Countess Marie Montemerli 

PAOLO CHERCHI, J/ Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 
ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA, German Arciniegas: l’itinerario intellettuale di 
un latinoamericano in Italia 

JANE ROBINSON, ‘With Foreigners Alone’: British Women Travellers to Italy 
(15th-20th century) 

KENNETH BARTLETT, Travel and Translations: The English and Italy in 
the Sixteenth Century 

WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL, Knowledge That Counted: Italian Phrase-Books 
and Dictionaries in Elizabethan England 

ROBERT L. MODE, In Search of Raphael: The Traveller’s Perspective 
JEREMY BLACK, Italy and the Grand Tour: The British Experience in the 
Eighteenth Century 

ROBERT MELZI, The Flight of the Marranos as Revealed in Italian Renais- 
sance Plays 


INEDITI / TEXTES INEDITS / UNPUBLISHED TEXTS / INEDITOS 


353 


a5 


582 


621 


LUIGI MONGA, La Londra secentesca nell’Anglipotrida (1618) di Orazio 
Busino 

CYNTHIA CRAIG, Giacomo Casanova’s “Mondes ou iles”: A Microcosm 
of Utopia 

PAUL TUCKER, ‘Right Conclusions’: Seven Unpublished Letters (1845-1846) 
From John Ruskin to John Murray 

ENRIC BOU, A proposito de las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 


BIBLIOGRAPHY / BIBLIOGRAFIA 


637 EMANUELE KANCEFF, Travel to Italy: A Proposal for a Bibliographical 
Classification 

647 LUIGI MONGA, Renaissance Hodoeporics: A Bibliography of Theoretical 
Texts on Methodus apodemica (J550-1700) 

663 RISA K. NYSTROM, A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on 
Travel Literature (1960-1994) 


RECENSIONI / BOOK REVIEWS / COMPTES RENDUS / RESENAS 


685 Eric J. Leed, The Mind of the Traveler: From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism 
(New York: Basic Books, 1991) [Th. Cachey]; 687 Adrien Pasquali, Le Tour des 
horizons (Paris: Klincksieck, 1994) [F. Gabaude]; 689 Robert Eisner. Travelers 
to an Antique Land: The History and Literature of Travel to Greece (Ann Arbor: 
The University of Michigan Press, 1991); French Odysseys: Greece in French 
Travel Literature from the Renaissance to the Romantic Era (Baltimore: The Johns 
Hopkins University Press, 1994); R. A. McNeal (ed.). Nicholas Biddle in Greece: 
The Journals and Letters of 1806 (University Park, PA: Pennsylvania University 
Press, 1993) [T. F. Winters]; 695 Hans Conrad Peyer, Viaggiare nel Medioevo: 
dall’ospitalita alla locanda (Bari: Laterza, 1991); A. Maczak, Travel in Early 
Modern Europe, transl. by U. Phillips (Cambridge, UK: Polity Press, 1995); 
Jeremy Black, The British Abroad: The Grand Tour in the Eighteenth Century (New 
York: St. Martin’s Press, 1992) [L. Monga]; 698 Jane Robinson, Unsuitable for 
Women: An Anthology of Women Travellers (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 
1994) [P. Covington]; 700 Theodore E. Stebbins, Jr., The Lure of Italy: American 
Artists and the Italian Experience, 1760-1914 (New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1992) 
[V. G. Fryd]; 702 Remo Ceserani, Treni di carta: l’immaginario in ferrovia; l’irru- 
zione del treno nella letteratura moderna (Genova: Marietti, 1993) [Ch. Klopp]; 
704 Georges Van Den Abbeele, Travel as Metaphor: From Montaigne to Rousseau 
(Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1992) [K. Himmelman]; 705 Frank 
Lestringant, Le Cannibale: Grandeur et décadence (Paris: Perrin, 1994) [L. 
Monga]; 706 T. J. Cachey, Jr., Le Isole Fortunate: Appunti di storia letteraria 
italiana (Roma: L’“Erma” di Bretschneider, 1995) [L. Formisano]; 709 Franco 
Paloscia (a cura di), Napoli e il Regno dei grandi viaggiatori (Roma: Abete, 1994) 
[A. Campa]; 711 Bartolomeo Fontana, /tinerari, ed. Robert Melzi (Genéve: 
Slatkine, 1995) [Th. J. Cachey]; 713 Voyage de Provence et d’Italie (1588-1589), 
Edition, introduction et notes de L. Monga (Genéve: Slatkine, 1994; Bibliothéque 
du voyage en Italie, n° 49) [B. Mitchell]; 715 Nathan Chytraeus, Voyages en 
Europe (Hodaeporica): poémes latins de la Renaissance, éd., trad. et annotés par 
M. Bastiaensen (Bruxelles: Peeters, 1994) [L. Monga]; 716 Lorenzo Gambara, 
De navigatione Christophori Columbi, acura di Cristina Gagliardi (Roma: Bulzoni, 
1993) [L. Monga]; 717 Giuseppe Baretti, Narrazione incompiuta di un viaggio in 


Inghilterra, Portogallo e Spagna, a cura di M. Catucci (Roma: Biblioteca del 
Vascello, 1994) [C. Bracchi]; 719 Gasparo Angiolini, Lettere sopra l’Inghilterra 
e la Scozia, a cura di M. e A. Stéuble (Modena: Mucchi, 1990) [C. Bracchi]; 721 
Elvio Guagnini, Viaggi e romanzi: note settecentesche (Modena: Mucchi, 1994) 
[L. Monga]; 722 José Luis Amorés, Maria Luisa Canut, Fernando Marti Camps 
(eds.), Europa 1700: El “Grand Tour” del menorquin Bernardo José (Barcelona: 
Serbal/Institut Menorqui d’Estudis, 1993) [Ph. Rasico]; 724 Renato Martinoni, 
Viaggiatori del Settecento nella Svizzera italiana (Locarno: Armando Dado, 1989) 
[L. Monga]; 725 B. Magliocchetti and A. Verna (eds.), The Motif of the Journey 
in Nineteenth-Century Italian Literature (Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 
1994) [R. Petrillo]; 727 Emanuele Kanceff, Poliopticon italiano, 2 vol. (Genéve: 
Slatkine, 1992-1993) [L. Monga]; 728 T. Whelan (ed.), Nature Tourism: Managing 
for the Environment (Washington: Island Press, 1991); E. Griffin-Nolan, Witness 
for Peace: A Story of Resistance (Louisville: Westminster/John Knox Press, 1991); 
F. Jean (ed.), Life, Death and Aid: The Médecins sans Frontiéres Report on World 
Crisis Intervention (London and New York: Routledge, 1993) [Gene TeSelle]; 730 
Franco Cordelli, L’/talia di mattina (Milano: Leonardo, 1990) [O. Gargano]; 732 
Alberto Savinio, Dico a te, Clio (Milano: Adelphi, 1992) [O. Gargano]; 735 Emilio 
Cecchi, America amara (Padova: Muzzio, 1995) [O. Gargano]; 737 Claudio 
Visentin, Nel paese delle selve e delle idee. I viaggiatori italiani in Germania, 
1866-1914 (Milano: Jaca Book, 1995) [O. Gargano]; 740 Vasco Pratolini, Cronache 
dal Giro d'Italia (maggio-giugno 1947) (Milano: Lombardi, 1992) [O. Gargano]; 
741 Innocente Bianconi, Diario d’America, a cura di R. Martinoni (Locarno: 
Armando Dado, 1994) [L. Monga]; 742 Tonia Caterina Riviello, Acque d’Italia 
(Venezia: Edizioni del Leone, 1994) [E. Kanceff]. 


Several of the essays published in this issue of Annali d’italianistica will appear, 
concurrently, in the Bollettino del C.ILR.V.I. (Turin) 
4 


HODOEPORICS? 


Renaissance Latin scholars called hodaeporicum a travel journal, from the 
Greek odo:mopéw, to walk (from 066¢, way, and ropebw, to travel: see my 
essay “L’hodoeporicum de Jacques Sirmond: Journal poétique d’un voyage 
de Paris 4 Rome en 1590” in Humanistica Lovanensia, XLti [1993], 301- 
322). Henri Estienne’s Thesaurus lingue grece (1572) recorded ddo.T0- 
p.Koc, an adjective (“qui viatoris est,” “ad viam pertinens”), and ddo.7o0- 
pikoy, a noun meaning “itinerarium” as well as “libellus iter aliquod descri- 
bens.” Another Latin form, hodceporicon (“travel narrative”), is recorded 
as early as St. Jerome’s epistolary, while Willibald’s Hodoeporicon to 
Jerusalem (8th century) is the earliest Anglo-Saxon travel journal ever 
written (cf. H. Estienne’s Thesaurus lingue@ lating and J. F. Niermeyer’s 
Medie latinitatis lexicon minus). 

Italian is perhaps the only modern language that has accepted this term 
in its lexicon: odeporico, an adjective (“pertaining to travel”) and a noun 
(“travel narrative”), and /’odeporica, a feminine noun (“travel literature”) 
formed on the same pattern of la chimica, la fisica, etc., words that came 
into Italian from medieval Latin by the ellipsis of the word scientia. 

From the existing lexicon in Latin and Italian, one could extrapolate 
the creation of similar cognates in other Romance languages: in French, 
for example, one could conceive the adjective hodéporique (“pertaining 
to travel literature”) and a feminine noun, /’hodéporique (“travel litera- 
ture”) as in la physique, la mécanique, etc. The French lexicon already 
has odométre (1678) and hodométre (1863: von Wartburg’s Franzosisches 
Etymologisches Worterbuch), hodométrie and hodographie. In Spanish, 
however, the term camineria, which has been recently proposed to the Real 
Academia de la Lengua de Madrid, would presumably preclude any 
terminology related to a plausible odepdrica from gaining acceptance. 

Since in English we already have hodograph, hodometer, hodometry 
(and odometer, odometry), it would not be improper to postulate hodoe- 
poric, as an adjective. Hodoeporics, as a noun, could be fashioned after 
Physics, mathematics, economics, etc., to signify travel literature. While 
the Oxford English Dictionary indicates no occurrence of the terminology 
we are proposing, it would be impossible to state that the word was never 
used. The reason for coining hodoeporic is that the adjectival use of the 
term “travel literature” is rather cumbersome; hodoeporics, moreover, 
could be used as a noun, for specific literary and scientific applications. 


Nashville, May 1996 


LUIGI MONGA 





Travel and Travel Writing: 
An Historical Overview of Hodoeporics 


foe SY aucesen 


"Ev apx@ Hv 7 656c: In principio erat via: In the beginning was the road.' With 
a slight twist of the solemn beginning of the Gospel of John (‘Ev apxj nv 6 
Aéyoc: In principio erat Verbum: In the beginning was the Word), I would surmise 
that travel, be it an individual’s geographical displacement or the sum of the 
migrations of faceless masses of human beings throughout the millennia, is at the 
source of the human experience. It is one of the most elemental activities, almost 
as basic as the act of breathing. Hodds (or via: way, road, voyage), in fact, seems 
to possess, mutatis mutandis, some of the multifarious characteristics of the 
Christian Logos. We won’t go so far as to alter the same verse of John’s Gospel 
and state that O¢d¢ jv 4% 656c¢, Deus erat via (God was the road), we know, 
however, that a few pages later, in the same text, Christ calls himself 666¢, via 
(Ego sum via, 'Eyo eips 7 056c: I am the way, John 14:6). Thus we know that 
the Logos is also the hodos, as the way (back) to the Word that was (in) the begin- 
ning. This divine cycle, twisted—admittedly—with a slight hermeneutical legerde- 
main, will haunt the readers of this issue of Annali d’italianistica. 

If the essence of nature is constant motion, akin to Heraclitus’s tenet ta&v7a 
xwpet (“everything moves”), one could say with Michel de Certeau that “tout récit 
est un récit de voyage”:” in other words, all literature is hodoeporics. As some 
recent criticism has emphasized, “topology,” “spatialization,” “chronotype” (or 
whatever terminology is used by narratologists to indicate the sequence of events 
in space or the relationship between space and time ina given text) remain essential 
elements for any narrative.’ Every narrative could thus be construed as spacial 


> 6 


1. “Au commencement était la route,” wrote Joseph Bédier in his study of the origin of 
the chansons de geste in France (Les Légendes épiques: recherches sur la formation des 
chansons de geste. Paris: Champion, 1929, m1, 367); but Bédier only meant that the road 
(to Santiago de Compostela) was the source of the chansons de geste. 


2. Michel de Certeau, L’Invention du quotidien: I: Arts de faire (Paris: 10/18, 1980), p. 
206. 


3. Mieke Bal, Narratologie: Les instances du récit (Paris: Klinksieck, 1977), p. 4. See also 
Ricardo Gull6n’s analysis in his study Espacio y novela (Barcelona: Bosch, 1980). 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga 


Travel and Travel Writing 7 


narrative or travel narrative. At this point, facing such a Protean element, we need 
to organize the immense material at hand, if we are to avoid plunging into the giant 
maelstrom of universal hodoeporics. 

Travel began early in human history. Great mass movements were caused 
by the evolution of the diet of homo erectus from vegetarian to omnivorous‘ and 
by the typically human characteristic of aggression against other individuals of the 
same species. Transhumances, following herds of animals, invasions, and 
conquests that deeply marked human evolution are often hidden beneath the 
metaphors and myths of the oral traditions. The history of travel, which has shaped 
the history of humanity, is, in a nutshell, 


the study of a force — mobility — ... a force of change operating through 
distinctly different events that make up the structure of a journey: ... from 
departures that detach individuals from a familiar context; from passages that set 
them in motion across space; from arrivals that establish new bonds and identifica- 
tion between strangers, creating a new union and coherence between self and 
context.° 


1. TRAVEL AS A METAPHOR FOR HUMAN LIFE 


Geographic displacement, as the most familiar element in human life, has easily 
become a symbol of an interior, non spatial operation, for “the essence of the 
metaphor is the use of the familiar to grasp the elusive and unrecognized, rather 
than mere ordering of phenomena by homology”:® “viaggio,” “cammin di nostra 
vita” (Inf. I, 1), passing (Petrarch’s “dubbioso passo”) or the last voyage, “ritorno 
a Dio,” pilgrimage, “grand voyage,” “le long voyage de la vieillesse” (Jacques 
Delille). Life (“le voyage de la vie,” Mme de Staél) and death (“le grand voyage” ) 
have appropriated the travel metaphor, whether in a religious context or not, as 
in Louis de Jaucourt’s article in the Encyclopédie, for example.’ 


” 4 


4. New food-gathering strategies needed to be developed. They fostered the use of shrewd 
and clever techniques in order to kill large animals, and at the same time increased social 
interaction, communication and planning, development of weapons, and, above all, forced 
the hunter to move about following his prey (Joseph Bronowski, The Ascent of Man. Boston- 
Toronto: Little, Brown and Co., 1973, p. 42). 


5. Eric J. Leed, The Mind of the Traveler: From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism (New York: 
Basic Books, 1991), pp. 21-22. 


6. Fredrik Barth, Ritual and Knowledge Among the Baktaman of New Guinea (New Haven: 
Yale University Press, 1975), p. 199. 


7. “On fait le voyage d’Italie. On fait un voyage a Paris. /l faut tous faire le grand voyage” 
(Encyclopédie, s. v. “Voyage”). See also Claude Carozzi, Le Voyage de l’ame dans |’au-dela 
d’apres la littérature latine (V-x1IF siécle) (Rome: Ecole Francaise de Rome, 1994). This 
is also expressed by the the popular wisdom of the South: “We are all graveyard travelers, 
and when you worry, you’re just whipping up your horse” (S. A. Kingsbury and K. B. 


8 LUIGI MONGA 


Travel, as a metaphor for life, is a topos in many texts of the western canon, 
from the pseudo-Plato’s “brief soujourn ina foreign land” (wapemtdnucta Tic Ear 
6 Bioc, Axiochous, 365B) to Alciati’s emblem “Qua Dii vocant eundum” (n° 8) to 
Cervantes’s axiom that “est4n nuestras almas en continuo movimiento, y no pueden 
parar ni sosegar sino en su centro que es Dios” (Persiles y Sigismunda) to Baude- 
laire’s “Notre ame est un trois-mats cherchant son Icarie” (Les Fleurs du mal, “Le 
Voyage,” 33).° 

Dante’s journey, while the most famous case in medieval literature, is by no 
means unique: one of his French contemporaries , Guillaume de Guilleville (d. ca. 
1358), found in the Roman de la Rose the inspiration for his allegorical Pelerinage 
de l’homme, also known as Le Romant des trois pelerinages, a 14th-century poem 
that enjoyed a great success. 

The literatures of the 16th and 17th centuries offer numerous hagiographic 
works that develop the peregrinatio spiritualis ,’ a mystical voyage towards perfec- 
tion. Teresa of Avila’s Camino de perfeccién (1570) is surrounded and followed 
by several texts in various languages: Peregrination spirituelle (Jan Pascha, 1576), 
Viaggio spirituale (Cornelio Bellanda, 1578), Pilgrimage to Paradise (Leonard 
Wright, 1591), De sacris et religiosis peregrinationibus (Jakob Gretser, 1606), 
Pilgrim’s Journey towards Heaven (William Webster, 1613), Duyfkens ende 
Willemykens pelgrimagie tot haren beminden binnen Ierusalem (Boetius Bolswert, 
1628, with numerous editions and translations), Pilgrim’s Passe to the New 
Jerusalem (M. R. Gent, 1659), The Pilgrim’s Progress (John Bunyam, 1678), are 
but a few examples in a vast literary field.'° 

The allegorical reading of motion is evident in the fondness that some Spanish 
poets of the 15th and 16th centuries displayed for wordplay based on partir. 
Departure from the beloved was seen as a sort of death: I depart (parto) and feel 
divided (me parto), leaving the best part (parte) of myself behind. The tradition 


Harder, eds., A Dictionary of American Proverbs. New York: Oxford University Press, 
1992, pp. 608-609). 


8. “Icarie,” however, is also the name of the ideal city that Etienne Cabet, a French 
communist utopian and author of a Voyage en Icarie (1842), had planned to found in 1848, 
first in Texas, then in Illinois. His manifesto, “Allons en Icarie!”, appeared in a French 
journal, Le Populaire (Cfr. Cl. Pichois, Auguste Poulet-Malassis: L’éditeur de Baudelaire. 
Paris: Fayard, 1996, p. 244, n. 2). 


9. Among the first works of this sort, we have Langland’s Piers Plowman (14th century), 
Robert Ciboule’s Livre du chemin de la perfection (ca. 1450), and Jean Glapion’s Le Passe- 
temps du pélerin de la vie humaine (ca. 1520). 


10. The labyrinths and mazes on the floor of some Gothic cathedrals—sometimes used as 
substitute pilgrimages—were intended as symbols of the centripetal road to salvation. (Cf. 
W. H. Matthews, Mazes and Labyrinths: Their History and Development. New York: Dover, 
1970 [reprint]). 


Travel and Travel Writing 9 


culminates in a madrigal by a 16th-century Spanish poet, Francisco de Figueroa: 


Triste de mi que parto, mas no parto: 

que el alma, que es de mi la mejor parte, 

ni partira ni parte." 
Travel, in term of both real destinations and attitude towards motion, often serves 
as a mirror of intellectual history. If one accepts that travel is a metaphor of our 
journey along the road of self-knowledge, then certainly James Joyce’s Ulysses must 
be held up as a masterful reflection of (or, perhaps, on) that voyage. Leopold 
Bloom’s wandering about the streets of 1904 Dublin is also a journey of the mind, 
a journey of the self, in which constant reflection on past, present, and future 
guides the reader through Joyce’s intellectual and spiritual world. Of course, 
Bloom’s rambling through Dublin, setting out from his home at 7 Eccles Street, 
and finally returning to Ithaka past midnight, is the full expression, the metaphor 
for Everyman on his travels." 


2. TRAVEL AS TRAVAIL: OBEDIENCE TO GOD’S CALLING, ATONEMENT, EXILE, 
AND PILGRIMAGE 


“Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, 
unto a land that I will show thee” (Gen 12:1). In asking Abraham, “a wandering 
Aramean” (Deut 26:4), to leave the land of his fathers, God wanted to remove him 
from the dangerous influence of his entourage and make him a tabula rasa on 
which God himself would write the history of the “great nation” that was to call 
him father. Abraham’s departure is the beginning of a new life for an entire people 
(Gen 15:7);'° his journey, although related to the idea of forced travel, is without 
the negative connotation of banishment. God’s call requires a response, a physical 
motion: “Here am I, for Thou didst call me” (J Sam 3:6). God called Noah in 
the same manner (“Come thou and all thy house into the ark,” Gen 7:1). After 
Abraham’s summoning, numerous divine calls mark the biblical story: Lot (“escape 
to the mountains!” Gen 19:19), Jacob (“[he] came into the land of the people of 
the east,” Gen 29:1), Joseph (“[he] was brought down to Egypt,” Gen 39:1), and 
Moses, leader of the exodus of an entire people through a barren land (“I will send 
thee unto Pharaoh,” Ex 3:11; “Let my people go,” Ex 5:1, “And I will bring you 


11. An anonymous 18th-century critic remarked cruelly: “[This poem would] persuade 
the stubborn geometricians that the whole isn’t always greater than its parts” (See C. 
Maurer, Obra y vida de Francisco de Figueroa. Madrid: Istmo, 1988, pp. 316-317). 


12. I owe this observation to my friend Timothy Winters, of Vanderbilt University. 


13. A comparison with Aeneas, in the classical world, is de rigueur: obedient to the call 
of Fate, the Trojan hero embarked on a toilsome flight after the fall of his city, to found 
a new city and become the father of a new, glorious race. 


10 LUIGI MONGA 


in unto the land, concerning the which I did swear to give it to Abraham,” Ex 6:8). 
Many prophets and kings were called, sent, ordered to go forth and speak or lead 
or fight: the entire Bible can be seen as the travel narrative of a wandering people, 
called to move about to maintain the purity of an idea." 

A study of biblical travel terminology is fascinating. The path of our human 
experience is addressed in the Vulgate as a peregrinatio. In the Judeo-Christian 
world, the semantic field implied by the voyage is built around the verb peregri- 
nari, which has the general meaning of “traveling” (Gen 17:8; 28:4; 36:7; Ex 6:4; 
Rt 1:22). This verb comes from per + agrare, which carries the meaning of “going 
far away.” The Biblical man is peregrinus and advena (stranger, from ad + 
venire), an adjective describing the social status of the individual who happens to 
be far away from home, and is therefore protected by the middle-eastern laws of 
hospitality, a deeply rooted social custom in the Old Testament:'° “Peregrini 
sumus coram te et advene,” prays David (/ Paral 29:15). This is a binomy which 
has been established from the earliest books of the Bible (Gen 23:4; Nm 9:14; 
35:15; Dt 15:3), along with peregrinus et alienus (Lev 19:10; 23:22). Peregrinus 
is the person traveling abroad or living ina foreign land, the foreigner, or a human 
who is only a temporary guest on this earth. “Dies peregrinationis mee” is how 
Joseph, son of Jacob, summarizes his life (Gen 47:9) and the lives of his ancestors, 
who “peregrinati sunt” (ibid.). The promised land is “terra peregrinationis” (Ex 
6:4) and even the temple takes on an aura related to this concept, “locus peregri- 
nationis mee” (Ps 118:54). At this point it is not difficult to extrapolate from these 
texts and understand why in the Old Testament man can define himself “peregrinus 
sicut omnes patres mei” (Ps 38:13). A term used by Cicero with the meaning of 
“time spent abroad” (Tuscul. Vv, 37, 107), peregrinatio is just a “journey” for 
Tertullian (De carne Christi, Vil, 7).'° 

For Augustine, however, the verb peregrinari, which, at first, covers the 
negative semantic area of going away from God (De Civitate Dei, 19:18) becomes 
eventually the positive return to God (ibid., 22:8: “peregrinus autem per revelatio- 
nem”), “viator tendens ad patriam” (/n Ps. 40). Augustine uses the term peregri- 


14. The ultimate irony for this journeying people is the image of the “wandering Jew,” 
a 13th-century anti-semitic legend that eventually became very popular in France as a novel 
by Eugéne Sue (Le Juif errant, 1845), an opera by Halévy and Scribe (1852), and a series 
of engravings by Gustave Doré (1856). 


15. The Greek Bible has azodnpety (to go far away from one’s own country) and 
amodnpuia (voyage) (Cf. Dictionnaire de spiritualité ascétique et mystique, s.v. “Péleri- 
nages”, t. XII, pt. I, col. 888-939). Even Cicero uses the term peregrinatio as time spent 
in a foreign land (Tuscul. 37, 107 and Ad famil. 11, 12, 2), and Tertullian is probably among 
the first writers to assign this word a generic meaning (De carne Christi, 7, 7). 


16. Dictionnaire de spiritualité ascétique et mystique, XI, 1, 890. 


Travel and Travel Writing iM 


nus in a Judeo-Christian meaning which will be appropriated by Isidore of Se- 
ville:'’ man is peregrinus/advena, a guest ina foreign land, just like a ger living 
among the Israelites'® or the pérovxo. and m&po.xo. among the Greeks. The idea 
of humanity marching towards a Heavenly Jerusalem, however, is taken from the 
word viator, for Christians are engaged in a constant voyage, since this goal is 
unreachable during life on earth: “Perfectio viatoris est scire nondum se pervenisse 
ad id quo tendit” (Augustine, Sermo xvill).' 

All journeys start with a departure which is ultimately the uprooting of the 
individual. It is a painful experience (“Partir c’est mourir un peu,” “Partire é un 
po’ morire,” according to popular wisdom), a form of alienation, a folly of some 
sort, for as Goethe wrote, “In any departure there is a small amount of crazi- 
ness.””° Departure implies separation, loneliness, alienation, even exile; and the 
normal reaction is nostalgia, homesickness, “mal du pays,” “Heimweh.””! 

The idea that travel is a painful chore, a torture of one’s body and mind 
appears in the etymology of the word travel. The Anglo-French verb travailler 
meant both “to travel” and “to torment.” It seems to have come from a late Latin 
form trepalium, an instrument of torture made of three (tres) stakes (pali) or a 
machine used to tie up horses that were being shoed; in France travail and in north- 
western Italy travaglio still indicates a contraption used to restrain animals (in a 


17. Isidore of Seville makes no practical distinction between profugus (“quiprocul a sedibus 
suis vagatur, quasi porro fugatus”) and peregrinus (“longe a patria positus, sicut alienigena”, 
Etym. X, 215). He also defines peregrini as “quod ignorantur eorum parentes: sunt enim 
de longiqua regione” (Etym. Ix, 41). 


18. The ger in the Old Testament is not merely a “passing stranger,” but a “temporary 
dweller in the land” who occupies a position intermediary between a “native” and a 
“foreigner” (J. Hastings, A Dictionary of the Bible, s.v. “ger”). 


19. In the Judaic tradition, the aliyah (literally, “ascent”) is indeed a pilgrimage of some 
sort, the coming of the Jews to the Land of Israel, and is “an almost uninterrupted process 
ever since the crushing of the Jewish resistance by the Romans” (Encyclopedia Judaica, 
I, 634). 


20. «In jeder groBen Trennung liegt ein Keim von Wahnsinn» (Johann Wolfgang von 
Goethe, Italienische Reisen, 22 March 1788). It is an idea that reflects, implicitly, the 
absurdity of Dante’s “folle volo” (Inf. xxvi, 125). 


21. The term “nostalgia” (from vooroc, return, and @Ayoc, pain) was coined in 1678 by 
Johannes Hofer in his Dissertatio medica de nostalgia, oder Heimwehe, published in Basel 
by J. Bertsch. J. Lieutaud accepted this word in his Précis de la médecine pratique (Paris: 
Vincent, 1759) and made it a household word: “il faut encore mettre sous ce titre [du délire 
mélancolique] la nostalgie, qu’on appelle communément la maladie du pays, quoique le désir 
de revoir sa patrie soit souvent trés-raisonnable” (p. 215). 

I owe this idea to my friend, Annunziata Campa, of the Universita di Pisa, who 
presented it ina paper “Axiologia del lenguaje en la escritura femenina: En cualquier lugar 
de Marta Traba,” at the I Congreso Internacional de Hispanistas, held in Melilla (Spain) 
on June 26-30, 1995. 


12 LUIGI MONGA 


Latin document written in 6th-century France trepalium meant a “place of punish- 
ment”). From “to put to torture,” “to vex” or “weary oneself,” trepeil eventually 
developed in English the meaning of “travel”; insome neo-Latin languages (travail, 
trabajo, trabalho, treball) it retained the sense of “labor,” replacing ouvrer,” 
whereas in Italian travaglio (as in English travail) still implies deep mental stress 
or even the “labor” of childbirth.” 

The binomial combination travel/travail is explicitly expressed in Ben Jonson’s 
poem to William Roe, who was about “to go / Countries and climes, manners and 
men to know”: 


This is that good Aeneas, passed through fire, 
Through seas, storms, tempests; and embarked for hell, 
Came back untouched. This man hath travailed well.” 


A corollary of Biblical and mythological narratives, travel, as we have seen, 
implies a punishment, in a form of banishment from what used to be one’s home. 
It is a form of exile, a separation which requires abandoning a part of oneself in 
order to rebuild a new, better self. The “penance of travel” set upon Cain, wander- 
ing about after his fratricide, started when Adam was chased from the Earthly 
Paradise (Gen. 3:23). Like Adam, we have to move from voluptas to dolor in 
order to make a living “in sudore vultus” (Gen. 3, 18). The semantic field of this 
kind of travel is connected to the above-mentioned evolution of the verb peregrina- 
ri. It involves a pessimistic view of the instability of human life, specifically, in 
Christian texts, the attempt to reach a final goal. It is fundamentally tied to the 
“pains and misery” that travel and wandering offer mortals, for 

in life 
there’s nothing worse than knocking about the world, 
no bitterness we vagabonds are spared 
when the curst belly rages! (Odyssey, XV; tr. by Robert Fitzgerald) 


An analysis of the terminology of travel will help clarify some fundamental 
concepts related to travel as pilgrimage. Gregory of Nyssa still wrote about a&7e\6- 
ety €t¢ ‘lepoodXvpa (to depart for Jerusalem), but John Chrysostom had already 
used the word azodnuia (a journey) to indicate his pilgrimage to the places where 
Paul had been kept prisoner. Pilgrimage and voyage are thus the same. Far away 


22. The meaning of “pain” does not completely disappear, however. In a short poem at 
the end of his Histoire d’un voyage en terre de Brésil (1599-1600), Jean de Léry addresses 
God, “qui m’[a] [fait sentir] tant de travaux.” 


23. On the other hand, voyage, viaggio, viaje comes from the Latin viaticum (traveling 
money, provision for the trip), through a Provengal form viatge (Old French veiage). 


24. “To William Roe,” in Poems, ed. I. Donaldson (London: Oxford University Press, 
1975), p. 74. I owe this quote to my friend William H. Race, of Vanderbilt University. 


Travel and Travel Writing 13 


from his heavenly home, ina state of continuous £ev.7efa (estrangement, dépayse- 
ment, from évoc, foreigner),”° the pilgrim starts his voyage towards the heavenly 
Jerusalem, his true home. His itinerary is similar to the exodus of the Jewish people 
towards the Promised Land. It is an individual’s pilgrimage as well as the voyage 
of the entire Church as God’s people, an itinerary from the hic et nunc towards 
a final place which can be reached only through a penitential journey. 

Only in the 5th century peregrinus and peregrinatio come to mean pilgrim and 
pilgrimage, as we intend them today. One of the first occurrences happens in the 
Itinerarium Egeri@ (8, 4), written, probably, in the early Sth century. In the 
following century, with the [tinerarium Antonini Placentini, the modern meaning 
of this term has finally become a part of the common language, revealing, at least 
implicitly, the popularity of this custom among the Christians.” 

The universality of the idea of the voyage as penance and purification is clear 
in eastern religions as well. Buddhism invites its faithful to visit four sacred places, 
and Islam preaches the pilgrimage to the Ka’ba (al-Hajj) and to the holy tombs 
throughout the Islamic world. Inaddition, Muhammad explicitly enjoined traveling 
to search for religious knowledge (hadith). The notion that travel purifies is explicit 
in the charter of Buddhist pilgrimage, the Aitareya Brahmana, with almost 
Rousseauian overtones: “There is no happiness for him who does not travel; living 
in the society of men, the best man often becomes a sinner. ... Therefore wan- 
den 

As a corollary, one could even think of the Crusades as an extension of the 
idea of pilgrimage, a “march to Jerusalem,” the city of eternal bliss. Spurred by 
a long tradition of pilgrimages to the Holy Land, the Crusades can be considered 
“an armed pilgrimage which was granted special privileges by the Church and 
which was held to be specially meritorious.””* In fact, the technical term for the 
Crusade was peregrinatio: Crusades, Crociate , Croisades, Kreuzzug are all words 
coined in the 18th century. 


3. TRAVEL AS “A FOOL’S PARADISE”: “ERROR” AND “VAGRANCY” 


Even the purifying travel is not without aberrations, for pilgrimages per se do not 


25. The term is closely connected to the story of Abraham (see in Heb 11:8-10 the New 
Testament interpretation of Gen 12:1). Cf. Dictionnaire de spiritualité, x1, 1, 890. 


26. For an impressive documentation on pilgrims and pilgrimages throughout the 8th 
century A.D., see the art. “Pélerinages aux Lieux Saints” in Dictionnaire d’archéologie 
chrétienne et de liturgie, XIV, 1, 65-174. 


27. Quoted in E. Leed, The Mind of the Traveler, p. 11. 


28. Hans Eberhard Mayer, The Crusades (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1972), pp. 
14-15. 


14 LUIGI MONGA 


make people holy.” Crowds of beggars dressed in rags and pseudo-monks 
begging on behalf of a god had been a commonplace on the roads in Roman 
times.” In the Golden Ass the pseudo-Lucian wrote of fake paupers who carried 
the goddess Syria, begging for food and money “through fields and villages,” 
mutilating themselves to scare naive peasants into giving generously (35, 37). 
Vagrancy of this sort was frequent in the first centuries of Christianity. Monks 
and pseudo-monks, taking advantage of Christ’s order to provide for the indigent, 
abused the charity and naiveté of good people. Augustine mentions them with 
horror: 


Tam multos hypocritas sub habitu monachorum usquequaque dispersit [callidissi- 
mus hostis], circumeuntes provincias, nusquam missos, nusquam fixos, nusquam 
stantes. ... Alii membra martyrum, si tamen martyrum, venditant, alii fimbrias 
et phylacterias suas magnificant, ... et omnes petunt, omnes exigunt, aut sumptus 
lucrose egestatis, aut simulate pretium sanctitatis.*! 


The councils tried unsuccessfully to eradicate this growing plague,” but it would 
spread eventually beyond the Mediterranean area.** There is an overwhelming 
streak of morbid curiositas in the medieval world; in spite of monastic rules, church 
councils, and Imperial decrees blasting this sin, crowds of monaci vagantes join 
professional beggars (cerretani) moving about Europe without a specific goal. 
Throngs of people roam the roads: merchants, colporteurs, vagabonds, itinerant 
monks, runaway religious, poets and troubadours, teachers and college students, 


29. While acknowledging that the pilgrimage to the Holy Land was essentially an act of 
faith (“adorasse ubi steterunt pedes Domini pars fidei est,” Epist. xLvu, 2), Saint Jerome 
recognized that it was not a mandatory duty (“non Hierosolymis fuisse, sed Hierosolymis 
bene vixisse laudandum est, quia regnum Dei intra nos est,” Epist. LVI, 2). This idea is 
reflected in the old axiom “Qui peregrinantur raro sanctificantur,” which underscores the 
moral and spiritual risks to which pilgrims were often exposed, a common complaint of 
reformers of the age of Erasmus (Cf. Luther’s An den christlichen Adel [1520] and De 
captivitate Babylonica ecclesie [1520], Tyndale’s Obedience of a Christian Man [1528], 
and Erasmus’s Peregrinatio religionis ergo [1528]). 


30. Piero Camporesi’s introduction to his edition of the Libro dei vagabondi (Torino: 
Einaudi, 1973) is a mine of information, with superb documentation. 


31. De opere monachorum (XxXvil), in Migne, Patrologia latina, XL, 575-576. 


32. “Monachi qui sine licentia episcopi vagantur, ad propria loca redire coguntur” 
(Decretum Gratiani, quoted in Camporesi, p. XII). Piero Camporesi calls it a tradition of 
crime (“impianto a delinquere”): small groups of followers of this religio mendicans, 
fraternities of beggars, bands of almsmen, often alternating their soliciting with periods of 
orgy and debauchery. 


33. In a letter to Irish bishops, Pope John xxl mentioned the need to take serious 
disciplinary measures against “nonnullos fratres mendicantes et alios clericos subvertentes 
populum Ibernie a devotione regis et persuadentes eis mala facere” (quoted by L. Fumi, 
Eretici e ribelli nell’Umbria. Todi: Atanor, s.d., p. 13). 


Travel and Travel Writing 15 


courriers, healers, real pilgrims, gypsies, craftsmen, and parasites.~ 

This libido currendi could be considered an essential aspect of the plot of the 
chansons de geste and medieval romance. Their heroes move about without a 
precise geography, without specific chronological and topographic landmarks, as 
unrealistic characters whose movements are punctuated by stilted formulas. The 
journey itself never receives much attention;* it could even be reduced to a 
metaphor, as Virginia Woolf wrote about Sterne’s Sentimental Journey, “the road 
was only through his own mind, and his chief adventures were not with brigands 
and precipices, but with the emotions of his own heart.” *° 


34. “La mobilité des hommes du Moyen Age a été extréme, déconcertante”, wrote J. Le 
Goff (La Civilisation de l’Occident mediéval. Paris: Artaud, 1965, p. 172). And, according 
to a 13th-century Italian poem, the “Detto del gatto lupesco,” “ ... uomini vanno / ki per 
prode e ki per danno, / per lo mondo tuttavia” (in Poeti del Duecento, ed. G. Contini. 
Milano-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1960, 11, 288). Camporesi detailed this world: “dei giudei erranti 
e maledetti (e naturalmente dei loro falsificatori), dei mendicanti veri e dei mendicanti falsi 
(la gueuserie), delle congreghe di ciechi, degli storpi, degli attratti, dei lebbrosi, dei 
mercenari e dei soldati che andavano alla guerra o che dalla guerra ritornavano (0 dicevano 
di ritornare), degli scampati dai pirati e dagli infedeli, dei servi fuggiaschi ..., i fuggitivi 
colpiti dal bando (i bannis), gli uomini dediti alla rapina e al furto (caimans, marauds), le 
bande di soldati sbandati che vivevano alle spalle della gente dei campi (belitres), gli 
essorillés (malfattori e delinquenti recidivi che avevano avuto mozzate le orecchie dal 
carnefice), ‘larrons, mendiants, espieux de chemin, ravisseurs de femmes, violeurs d’Eglise, 
tireurs a l’oye, joueux de faulx dez, trompeurs, faux monnoyeurs, malfaicteurs et autres 
associez, récepteurs et complices’ ...; e poi autentici disoccupati, affamati, gente senza un 
vero mestiere. E infine, a partire dai primi decenni del Quattrocento, gli zingari; venivano 
poi gli artigiani e i lavoratori itineranti: tessitori, calderai, seggiolai, arrotini, impagliatori, 
muratori, i maestri e gli apprendisti delle arti mobili, e tutta la schiera innumerevole degli 
artigiani stagionali che abbandonavano le loro terre e le loro vallate per esercitare il mestiere 
in stagioni brevi o lunghe in altri paesi e contrade, ed ogni gruppo col proprio linguaggio 
‘corporativo’ o gergo segreto (la lingua occulta), con gli abiti-divisa (o con gli abiti- 
travestimento), coi suoi santi, le sue cantilene e salmodie, le sue pentole, 1 suoi sogni,; e 
le strade con le taverne, le locande invitanti sotto l’insegna e il mazzo d’agrifoglio, i ponti 
coi loro custodi, le porte delle ‘terre’, gli ospizi, le abbazie, i conventi, i cenobi, le 
foresterie, gli ospedali dei poveri e dei pellegrini” (Camporesi, p. XXIII-XXIV). 


35. “The journey is a pre-verbal notion which convention (or epic ‘grammar’) associates 
with a network of details [which are] in turn associated with various lexical items and 
grammatical constructions. ... The most important aspect of the code is the combination 
of details and the diverse effects these combinations may have” (E. A. Heinemann, “The 
Motif of Journey in the Chanson de Geste,” in H. Scholler, ed., The Epic in Medieval 
Society: Aesthetic and Moral Values. Tiibingen: Max Niemer, 1977, pp. 178-192). See also 
John Stevens’s Medieval Romance: Themes and Approaches (London: Hutchinson University 
Library, 1973), pp. 148-151. Even in the fabliaux travel is “un prétexte, une entrée en 
matiére, ... car il arrive quelque chose quand les héros sont arrivés quelque part, et pas 
avant” (Marie-Thérése Lorcin, “Les Voyages ne forment que la jeunesse, ou Le voyageur 
et l’étranger dans les fabliaux,” in Voyage, quéte, pélerinage dans la littérature et la 
civilisation médiévales. Aix-en-Provence: Editions CUER, 1976, p. 465). 


36. The Common Reader: Second Series (London: Hogarth Press, 1935), p. 80. 


16 LUIGI MONGA 


Erasmus ridiculed the pilgrims he encountered during his travels: 


superstitiosus et immodicus quorundam affectus, qui summam pietatem esse ducunt 
vidisse Hierosolymam; et huc per tantum terrarum marisque spatia currunt senes 
episcopi, relicto grege, qui curandus erat, huc viri principes relicta familia ac 
dictione, huc mariti, relictis domi liberis et uxore, quorum moribus a pudicitie 
necessarius erat custos, huc adolescentes et foeminz, non sine gravi discrimine 
morum et integritatis.*” 


Rabelais poked fun at pilgrimages, “otieux et inutilles voyages” (Gargantua, 
XLV), seeing them as harmful and contrary to the most basic laws of economics 
and household propriety. After all, the morals of the pilgrim’s wife could be at 
stake while he is absent. 

If, according to Emerson, “travelling is a fool’s paradise,” for “the rage of 
travelling is a symptom of deeper unsoundness,”* nonetheless, travel for travel’s 
sake has always been popular. Wandering can even be a way to open one’s ears 
and relax one’s spirit while looking for the elusive Tao of oriental philosophy. 
Ming Liaotse, a cultured vagabond who lives a happy, carefree, almost contem- 
plative life, is glorified in 16th-century China by T’u Lung (also known as T’u 
Ch’ ihshui): 

I go forth with a friend who loves the mountain haze. ... And we two go begging 

through cities and through hamlets, at vermilion gates and at white mansions, 

before taoist temples and monks’ huts. ... The tone of our begging is humble, but 

not tragic. If people give, we leave them, and if peole don’t give, we also leave 

them; the whole object being merely to forestall hunger. If some people are rude, 

we take it with a bow. ... 

We travel without a destination and stop wherever we find ourselves, and 

we go very slowly, ... and when we are enchanted with the springs and white 

rocks and water fowls and mountain birds, we choose a spot on a river islet and 

sit on a rock, looking at the distance. 

... If it is willed that our days are numbered, then there our journey ends. 

But if we escape it, then we go on as before.* 


Meanwhile, 16th-century Europe witnessed the urbanization of a faceless mass 
of disenfranchised people, 


esa masa constituida a base de moriscos, campesinos emigrantes (sin tierras) que 
fuian a la ciudad, desempleados de toda laya, esclavos negros y blancos (moros 


37. “De utilitate colloquiorum” in Opera omnia (Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1972), I, 
Wi, 742. 


38. Ralph Waldo Emerson, “On Self-Reliance,” 2-3. 


39. See “The Travels of Ming Liaotse” in Lin Yutang, The Importance of Living (New 
York: Reynal & Hitchcock, 1937), pp. 341-342. 


Travel and Travel Writing Wy 


apresados), esclavos y esclavas ‘criollos’ (negros nacidos en América y reimporta- 
dos), libertos, vagabundos, mendigos (verdaderos—los menos—y simulados—los 
mas—), rufianes, matones, picaros, ladrones, prostitutas, chulos y guardianes 
(‘padres’) oficiales de mancebias (hombres y mujeres, reglamentados y aprobados 
por el Ayuntamiento). 


This mass movement developed into a literary representation of the life and adven- 
tures of picaros roaming the world while crossing various social classes.*' The 
following inventory by Cervantes brings back Augustine’s catalog of vagantes as 
a constant in western civilization: 


jO picaros de cocina, sucios, gordos y lucios; pobres fingidos, tullidos falsos, 
cicateruelos de Zocodover y de la plaza de Madrid, vistosos oracioneros, esporti- 
lleros de Sevilla, mandilejos de la hampa, con toda la caterva innumerable que 
se encierra debajo deste nombre picaro!* 


Geographical accurac y is not of paramount importance in picaresque literature: the 
subject is still an “interior” journey. Lazarillo de Tormes (1554), one of the first 
novels of this genre, is the forerunner of Guzman de Alfarache by Mateo Aleman 
(1599) and El Buscén by Francisco de Quevedo y Villegas (1626). Francisco Lépez 
de Ubeda’s La picara Justina (1605) and Alonso Jerénimo de Salas Barbadillo’s 
La hija de Celestina (1612) show the acceptance of a female character. In England 
we have Thomas Nashe’s The Unfortunate Traveller, or The Life of Jack Wilton 
(1594), and in 17th-century France “I’instabilité des choses du monde”® is the 
leit-motiv ofa series of “road novels” , among which can be counted Charles Sorel’s 
L’Histoire comique de Francion (1622), Paul Scarron’s Le Romant comique (1651), 
and Antoine Furetiére’s Le Roman bourgeois (1666). This genre will continue 
through the 18th century in England and France, from Defoe’s Moll Flanders 
(1722) and Fielding’s Tom Jones (1749) to Lesage’s Gil Blas (1715-1735), 
Marivaux’s Le Paysan parvenu (1734-1735), and Voltaire’s biting Candide (1759); 
even Dickens’s Picwick Papers (1838-1839) can be accommodated in this category. 
We can find a relationship between the variety of what is observed in the course 
of traveling and the variety of life itself. Again, in most of these novels the 
itinerary is only a metaphor of the individual’s struggle for survival and his spiritual 
evolution. Guzmdn’s Rome, for example, is just a symbolic haven for picaros from 


40. Juan A. Ortega y Medina, El conflicto anglo-espaniol por el dominio ocednico (siglos 
XVI y XVII) (Malaga: Editorial Alcazara, 1992), p. 71. 


41. Didier Souillier, Le Roman picaresque (Paris: P.U.F., 1980). 


42. Cervantes, “La ilustre fregona,”in Novelas ejemplares, ed. H. Sieber (Madrid: Catedra, 
1994), 0, 141. 


43. Charles Sorel, Histoire comique de Francion (1) in Romanciers du xvif siécle, textes 
présentés et annotés par A. Adam (Paris: Gallimard, 1958, p. 91). 


18 LUIGI MONGA 


around the world, as a critic has remarked: 


La truandaille y vit a l’ombre des basiliques, accroupie auprés des bénitiers, dans 
les chapelles fréquentées par les pélerins, dont la charité s’émeut au répugnant 
spectacle des plaies et des chancres si habilement imités que les médecins mémes 
s’y trompent.“ 


Last but not least, and a world apart, we find Giacomo Casanova de Seingalt, 
undoubtedly a high-class bohémien, always “on the road” for no specific reason 
other than traveling. His autobiography* reads as a picaresque novel of gambling 
and seduction: a well-dressed and affluent runaway, surrounded by the most 
beautiful people of the international high society, Casanova is, for most of his life, 
the symbol of foolish restlessness. Restless, that is, until life’s cruel contrappasso 
forces him to settle down in Count Waldstein’s library, ironically, in a Bohemian 
castle. 

Picaros, bohémiens , hoboes and poets share the same desire for an escape that 
cannot be defined exclusively in geographical terms: “Je ne suis jamais bien nulle 
part, et je crois toujours que je serai mieux ailleurs que 1a ot je suis” sighs 
Baudelaire ,*° followed by Gabriel Mir6: “jOh, hasta veia lejos otros barcos y 
entonces apetecia ir donde no iba!”*’ Lonely, “ao volante do Chevrolet,” Fernan- 
do Pessoa’s alias, Alvaro de Campos, keeps driving aimlessly on deserted roads 
“por outro sonho, por outro mundo, / ... e que mais haverd em seguir sefiao nao 
parar mas seguir?” 

More recently, Saul Bellows’s Adventures of Augie March (1953) has shown 
a similar attempt to escape from traditional constraints and conventions. Similarly, 
Jack Kerouac’s characters (On the Road, 1957, Dharma Bums, 1959) set forth into 
a series of restless, frantic trips across America, searching for an elusive locus 
amoenus, soon imitated by a throng of followers, poets, hipsters, mystics, and 
eccentrics, in love with life and beauty, sex, drugs, and speed.” 


44. M. Molho, “Introduction a la pensée picaresque” in Romans picaresques espagnols 
(Paris: Gallimard, 1968), p. LV. 


45. Histoire de ma vie (Wiesbaden-Paris: F. A. Brockhaus-Plon, 1962). 


46. “Le Spleen de Paris,” XxxI. To a certain extent, there is a picaresque component in 
every travel; even Montaigne, who would not be accused of this weakness, cannot always 
justify his wanderings (“Je scay bien ce que je fuis, mais non pas ce que je cherche,” Essais, 
ll, 9). 


47. Obras completas (Madrid: Biblioteca Nueva, 1969), p. 595. 
48. See below Jaime Ferran, “Viaje y literatura,” pp. 65-70. 


49. “I’ve always wanted to get as far as possible from the place where I was born. ... The 
farther away I go, the happier I am,” said a great traveler (Conversations with Paul Bowles, 
ed. G. Dagel Caponi. Jackson: Univ. Press of Mississippi, 1993), p. 90. 


Travel and Travel Writing 19 


4. TRAVEL AS PEDAGOGY: EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE 


The Renaissance did not introduce travel as a pedagogical tool; meeting other people 
and observing different ways of life had always been a corollary to learning. Except 
for Plato, who allowed only mature individuals to leave their country so that the entire 
community would benefit from their experience,” most philosophers have insisted 
on the importance of traveling for the institutio puerorum. For Renaissance writers 
the réle of travel was fundamental in the institutio principis as well as in the formation 
of the honneste homme. Beyond the utilitarian function of gathering strategical details 
of a territory,*’ the social and political organization, ancient and recent history, and 
personality of local rulers, the ideal man’s discretione” grows through the uninterrupt- 
ed learning of lessons that travel offers. This honneste homme is only the result, the 
sum of what he has observed abroad (Essais, 1, 26; M1, 8): “quaque ipse miserrima 
vidi / et quorum pars magna fui” (42n. I, 5-6, echoed by Tennyson, “I am a part 
of all that I have met,” “Ulysses,” 5). 

For it is abroad that the traveler finds the cultural opportunities to learn: “Here 
let us breathe, and haply institute / A course of learning and ingenious studies,” 
exclaims Lucentio arriving in Padua with his servant to complete a comprehen- 
sive curriculum studiorum akin to what Joachim du Bellay had proposed: 


Je me feray scavant en la philosophie, 
En la mathematique et medecine aussi; 


50. Fearing bad influences on young travelers, Plato forbids any travel before the age of 
40. He accepts, however, the pedagogical value of travel, provided that travel be mediated 
by a mature tutor, knowing well that a state needs to confront itself with other states in order 
to achieve “an adequate level of maturity and civilisation” (Laws, x11, 950-951). We find 
numerous auctoritates in the first few chapters of Turler’s De peregrinatione (cited in its 
English translation, The Traveiler. London: H. How, 1575) and in Montaigne’s essay “De 
l’institution des enfans” (I, 26). 

Adam Smith follows Plato’s negative approach to travel as a means of perversion: “A 
young man who goes abroad at seventeen or eighteen ... commonly returns home more 
conceited, more unprincipled, more dissipated, and more incapable of any serious application 
either to study or to business than he could well have become in so short a time had he lived 
at home” (Wealth of Nations, V, 1). 


51. Inhis L’arte de la guerra and Discorsi sopra la prima Deca Machiavelli underscores 
the strategic importance of observation for the young traveling aristocrat. In the Principe 
he assumes that the ruler has learned in his youth the basic notions of geographic strategy: 
“ ..e parte imparare la natura de’ siti e conoscere come surgono e monti, come imboccono 
le valle, come iacciono e piani, ed intendere la natura de’ fiumi e de’ paduli; e in questa 
porre grandissima cura” (XIV). 


52. Baldesar Castiglione, // Cortegiano, Iv, 18; 1, 12-13. 


53. W. Shakespeare, The Taming of the Shrew, I, 1, 8-9, and also “Such wind as scatters 
young men through the world / To seek their fortunes farther than at home / Where small 
experience grows” (I, I, 48-50). 


20 LUIGI MONGA 


Je me feray legiste, et d’un plus hault souci 

Apprendray les secrets de la theologie; 

Du luth et du pinceau j’esbatheray ma vie, 

De l’escrime et du bal. ... (J. Du Bellay, Les Regrets, xxxM) 


For Montaigne, the ultimate Renaissance traveler, a journey is both the best way 
of “reading” the book of nature, “le livre de mon escholier” (Essais, 1, 26), and 
the means of confronting one’s attitude with enriching approaches and perspectives: 


Le commerce des hommes y est merveilleusement propre, et la visite des pays 
estrangers, ... pour enrapporter principalement les humeurs de ces nations et leurs 
facons. ... 

Le voyager me semble un exercice profitable. L’ame y a une continuelle 
exercitation a remarquer les choses incogneués et nouvelles; et je ne scache point 
meilleure escholle ... 4 former la vie que le luy proposer incessamment la diversité 
de tant d’autres vies, fantaisies et usances, et luy faire gouster une si perpetuelle 
varieté de formes de nostre nature. (Essais, 1, 26; Il, 9) 


Following Plato’s tenets, Baltasar Gracian advised the prudent to spend the “second 
act” of his life in travel. His ideal man 


buscoé y goz6 de todo lo bueno y el mejor del mundo. ... Traseg6, pues, todo el 
universo, y paseo todas sus politicas provincias: la rica Espafia, la numerosa 
Francia, la hermosa Inglaterra, la artificiosa Alemania, la valerosa Polonia, la 
amena Moscovia, y todo junto en Italia. (El discreto, ch. xxv)™ 


Whether or not travel is advisable for the young person, Renaissance writers of 
all countries agree that it broadens the mind. Gracidn’s point is echoed by, among 
others, Kirchner, Bacon, Cervantes, and Robert Greene: 


All wits, whatsoever naturall instinct of towardness they have, do waxe dull and 
even die, being included within the narrow bounds of their domesticall seats and 
... there is no dulnes of mind, no darkenes so great which is not in a manner 
kindled with the course of travels, and in all respects made more cleere and 
vigorous.°° 


54. An important corollary to the Bildungreise is the exchange of ideas which took place 
among medieval and Renaissance traveling scholars: “The first important channel through 
which Italian humanism spread abroad was what we now like to call the exchange of 
persons. Many foreigners had occasion to visit Italy and to get acquainted with humanist 
learning, depending on their stay, and on the range of their intellectual interests” (O. 
Kristeller, “The European Diffusion of Italian Humanism” /falica, XXxIx [1962], 2). Peter 
Burke called this method of exchange “the most direct and personal means of diffusing 
humanism” (“The Spread of Italian Humanism” in A. Goodmanand A. Mackay, The Impact 
of Humanism on Western Europe. London-New York: Longman, 1990, p. 3); see also Angel 
G6émez Moreno, Espana y la Italia de los humanistas (Madrid: Gredos, 1994), pp. 296-314. 


55. H. Kirchner, “Oration on Travel,” quoted and translated by Thomas Coryate in the 
preface to his Crudities (Glasgow: MacLehose, 1905 [reprint]), 1, 129. 


Travel and Travel Writing 21 


Travel in the younger sort is a part of education; in the elder, a part of experience. 
(Essay xvi, “On Travel”) 


El andar tierras y comunicar con diversas gentes hace a los hombres discretos. 
... al famoso griego llamado Ulises le dieron renombre de prudente por s6lo haber 
andado muchas tierras y comunicado con diversas gentes y varias naciones. 
(Cervantes, Novelas ejemplares, “El coloquio de los perros”)°*° 


We may be surprised to find only a limited number of 16th-century aphorisms 
on travel and its merits. Proverbs are born out of well-known experiences, rooted 
in the legacy of a tradition, and the habit of traveling for knowledge was barely 
starting in the Renaissance.*’ The voyage d’Italie was still considered by many 
as a morally dangerous task. In 1566 Henri Estienne unlashed his wrath against 
the risk of losing one’s values in Italy, a country dominated by sodomy and 
duplicity.** Roger Ascham, a British humanist who acknowledged being “almost 


56. “For, since experience is the greatest parte of humane wisedome, and the same is 
increased by traveil, I suppose ther is no man will deney, but that a man may become the 
wiser by traveiling” (Turler’s Preface to The Traveiler). “Je me plais 4 étudier l"homme 
en voyageant,” was Casanova’s confession to Voltaire (Histoire de ma vie, V1, X. Paris: 
Plon, 1960, mI, 227). Emerson, however, emphasized the wisdom of avoiding what he 
called “the superstition of travelling”: “the wise man stays at home, and when his necessi- 
ties, his duties, on any occasion call him from his house, or into foreign lands, he is at home 
still, ... and visits cities and men like a sovereign, and not like an interloper or a valet” (“On 
Self-Reliance,” 2). 


57. We have been able to identify only a few 16th-century proverbs related to travel. A 
few quotations from Classical authors keep reappearing in many journals: “Hominum natura 
novitatis ac peregrinationibus avida est” (Pliny, Natur. hist., xVM, x, 12); “Vectatio iterque 
et mutata regio vigorem dant” (Seneca, De tranquill., XVU, 8). A passage from the 
Ecclesiasticus (34:9), the book of the Bible also known as Sirach, which in the Vulgate is 
rather bland (“Vir in multis expertus cogitabit multa”), is sometimes translated as “A man 
that hath travelled knoweth many things.” Moryson has a small selection of proverbs for 
the traveler, taken from John Florio’s popular textbook, the Second Frutes (London: 
Woodcock, 1591): “Se vuoi esser viandante et andar salvo per il mondo, habbi sempre et 
in ogni luoco occhio di falcone per veder lontano, orecchie d’asino per udir bene, viso di 
[s]cimia per esser pronto al riso, bocca di porcello per mangiar del tutto, spalle di camelo 
per portar ogni cosa con patientia, e gambe di cervo per poter fuggire i pericoli” (p. 92). 
Another series of texts can be found in Georgius Loysius’s Pervigilium Mercurii, in quo 
agitur de prestantissimis peregrinantis virtutibus (Curiz Variscorum [Regensburg]: 
Pfeilsmidt, 1598), a collection of proverbs, published in Germany (also in 1600), and 
included as an appendix to Heinrich Rantzau’s Methodus apodemica (1608), Gottfried 
Hegenitius’s Itinerarium frisio-hollandicus (1661 and 1667), and Thomas Theodor Crusius’s 
De eruditione comparanda (1699). In English we find two proverbs, “Travaile fulleth the 
man: he hath liv’d but lockt up ina larger chest, which hath never seene but one land” and 
“Travel makes a wise man better, but a fool worse” (Owen Feltham, Resolves. London: 
Scile, 1628, p. 251). 


58. Apologie pour Hérodote, ch. Xt and XxXIx. See also the essay by Gabriel Maugain, 
“L’Italie dans l’Apologie pour Hérodote” in Mélanges offerts a M. Abel Lefranc (Paris, 
1936), pp. 378-392, who defines Apologie as an “un arsenal de fléches empoisonnées, 


22 LUIGI MONGA 


an Italian [him]self,” stirred the anti-Italian London milieu: Italy could only offer 
a vast assortment of sundry vices.” 

In the final analysis, however, the traveler abroad can only discover his own 
foreignness.© He may try to open up to the new ambiance that surrounds him, 
to integrate himself slowly and to varying degrees. He may be prepared by the 
reading of treatises on travel. Some of these works accept without questioning the 
diversities of people and countries; using a methodology comparable to the synec- 
doche of classical rhetoric, these texts accept with a scientific assurance some of 
the generalizations that our “politically correct” society attempts to avoid. Renais- 
sance philosophers believe that differences among ethnic groups are founded upon 
the “nature” of nations, something that allows them to classify countries just like 
individuals, according to pre-set schemes: “Itali prudentes, Galli mansueti, Germani 
cauti. ... in oratione, Germani sunt aperti et graves, Hispani culti et jactabundi, 
Galli blandi, Itali versuti,” writes Georgius Loysius.°' Justus Lipsius, like many 
authors of manuals for the traveler, is happy to provide his pupil, Philippe Lanoye, 
with a panoramic view of the most common faults of each country.” 

Driven, like Montaigne, by “cette humeur avide des choses nouvelles et 


réunies contre les Italiens et surtout contre leur clergé.” Lionello Sozzi offered a detailed 
analysis of this problem in “La Polémique anti-italienne en France au XxVI° siécle,” Alti 
dell’Accademia delle scienze di Torino, CVv1 (1972), 99-190. 


59. See, besides Ascham’s The Scholemaster (1570), Thomas Nash’s Pierce Penniless, 
his Supplication to the Divell (1592), Howell’s Instructions for Forreine Travell (1642); 
Clare Howard’s English Travellers of the Renaissance (London: John Lane, 1913), and my 
introduction to Isaac Basire’s Travels through France and Italy (1647-1649) (Geneva: 
Slatkine, 1987). The anti-Italian spirit which flourishes in the second half of the 16th century 
does not prevent dozens of young Englishmen from starting a southbound voyage, and to 
gettransformed into those “Italianfyd Inglischemane,” that Thomas Howard, Duc de Norfolk 
hated so deeply. 


60. We shall see that Montaigne is always an exception to the general rule. In Padua he 
had met “plus de cent gentilshommes Francois,” which in his opinion prevented young 
people from “acquerir des cognoissances estrangieres”; in Rome he was upset “de trouver 
si grand nombre de Francois qu’il ne trouvoit en la rue quasi personne qui ne le saluast en 
sa langue” (Journal de voyage en Italie, éd. Frangois Rigolot. Paris: P.U.F., 1992), pp. 
66-67, 91. See Jean Delumeau’s “Contribution 4 l’histoire des Francais 4 Rome pendant 
le xvI° siécle,” Mélanges d’archéologie et d’histoire, LXIV (1952), 249-286. 


61. Pervigilium Mercuri, n° 164. See the ch. “On the opinions of old writers, and some 
proverbs which I observed in forraigne parts ... ” in F. Moryson’s Itinerary, pp. 37-54. 


62. “Ut hominibus singulis, sic populis sue laudes, sue labes. Galliam ecce cogitas? 
levitatem et vanitatem. ... Italiam? proterviam in ea et libidinem. Hispanias? typhum 
quemdam et Africanum fastum. Germaniam? comessationes et ebrietatem” (Letter no. 22 
of 3 Avril 1578, in Opera omnia. Vesaliz, 1675, 11, 32). See an example of this schematic 
approach in sonnet Lxvil of Du Bellay’s Regrets: “Je hay du Florentin l’usuriere avarice.” 


Travel and Travel Writing 23 


inconnues” (II, 9), an “honeste curiosité de s’enquérir de toutes choses” (I, 26),” 
whatever is “digne d’estre escript,” or simply pushed by “la faim extreme de voir” 
(Journal, p. 71) or “le desir de veoir” people and things,” the good traveler is 
willing to suffer all sort of pains in order to return home “plein d’usage et 
raison” (Les Regrets, XXXII). He will plunge into the outer world “pour frotter et 
limer [sa] cervelle contre celle d’autruy”® or, more prosaically, “[pour ouyr] le 
son de bien d’autres closches que de celles de son pays.” This process of 
discovery, which is often geared to prepare the young man for a political career 
at the service of his country,” gives him a definite pleasure,® for the “faim,” 
the burning “envy de voir” (p. 90) is a “plaisir ... si doux” (p. 60). And so, like 
Erasmus, he can dream nostalgically of the soft light of Rome, her rich libraries, 
the scholarly conversations with his friends: 


Non possum non discrutiari Romanz urbis desyderio, quoties animo recursat quam 
libertatem, quod theatrum, quam lucem, quas deambulationes, quas bibliothecas, 
quam mellitas eruditissimorum hominum confabulationes, quot mei studiosos orbis 
proceres relicta Roma reliquerim!® 


63. Sieur de La-Boullaye-Le-Gouz underscored “la curiosité de voir et apprendre les 
cotitumes estrangeres pour les conferer avec celles de France et en juger sans passion” (Les 
Voyages et observations ... Paris: Clousier, 1657, p. 13). Montesquieu acknowledged that 
“quand j’ai voyagé dans les pays étrangers je m’y suis attaché comme au mien propre” (Mes 
pensées in CEuvres completes. Paris: Gallimard, 1949, 1, 976). 


64. Discours viatiques, cit., p. 47 and passim; Villamont used the same expression, “le 
desir qu’avions de voir tousiours choses nouvelles” (Voyages, f° 54v). 


65. Essais, m1, 9. Half a world away from Montaigne, and a few years after the death of 
the French philosopher, BaishO, a Japanese poet and traveler wrote: “One of the greatest 
pleasures of traveling was to find a genius hidden among weeds and bushes, a treasure lost 
in broken tiles, a mass of gold buried in clay, and when I did find such a person, I always 
kept a record with the hope that I might be able to show it to my friends” (“The Records 
of a Travel-worn Satchel” in The Narrow Road to the Deep North and Other Travel 
Sketches. Hammondsworth: Penguin, 1966, pp. 86-87). 


66. Voyage d’Italie (1606), ed. Michel Bideaux (Geneva: Slatkine, 1981), p. 42. 


67. Here is Georgius Loysius’s definition: “est autem peregrinatio nihil aliud quam studium 
perlustrandi terras exoticas et insulas, ab homine idoneo suscipiendum ad artem vel ea 
acquirenda que usui et emolumento patrie vel Rei esse publice possunt” (Pervigilium 
Mercurii, n° 3). 


68. “Habet multum iucunditatis soli celique mutatio ipsaque illa peregrinatio inter sua” 
(Pline, Epist., 1, xix, 4). 


69. Erasmus’s letter to Cardinal Raffaele Riario, n° 333, of 15 May 1515. Fifteen years 
later Erasmus wrote from Fribourg: “Interdum cogito Italiam, sed pudet senem peregrinari. 
Arrisit enim coelum Patavinum, delectavit Italie gentis humanitas” (n° 2328, 14 June 1530). 
Meeting scholars and college professors was a fundamental activity for the intelligent traveler 
of the Renaissance: “tria ita egressus iterque ingressus, peregrinantem decet in unaquaque 
urbe vel Academia celebri inquirere et indagare de doctis viris et professoribus. Si itaque 


24 LUIGI MONGA 


Once more, conceptualizing this kind of travel through a semantic analysis may 
be helpful. It could be useful to extrapolate from the etymology of words related 
to the traveler who has become “del mondo esperto” (Inf. XXVI, 97-98).” 

The word “experience” is tied to “danger.” In Latin, periculum is synonymous 
for experimentum. Forcellini (Totius Latinitatis Lexicon) translates periculum as 
“esperienza, prova, cimento, saggio”; periculum evolves towards “danger,” while 
experimentum, in Latin jurisprudence, means exactly “trial.” This word comes from 
an archaic verb *perior (to try), and is related to the Greek verbs zre{pw (to cross), 
Teipaw (to try), and e.pé& fw (make trial): the cycle, from dangerous motions to 
judicial trial and finally to travel, is complete.’' The *per/*fer root has given 
experimentum and periculum, the adjective peritus and Germanic/Anglo-Saxon words 
such as erfahren (to learn), fern (distant), Fahrt (voyage), Erfahrung (exploration), 
bewandert (proficient), fare, and fear.” 

It is precisely the personal experience the element that marks most indelibly the 
voyager, as it did Ulysses,’”* the hero of Homer (“Many were the men whose cities 
he saw and whose minds he learned” ), Horace (“multorum providus urbes et mores 
hominum inspexit”), Dante (“del mondo esperto / e de li vizi umani e del valore”), 
and Tennyson (“I cannot rest from travel”): 


For always roaming with a hungry heart 
Much have I seen and known—cities of men 
And manners, climates, councils, governments ... (“Ulysses,” 12-14) 


tales qui possunt studiis vel peregrinationi prodesse, hos adeat, audiat, consulat et e sacris 
istis pectoribus ore hianti bibat vere peregrinationis et abdite doctrine fontes” (Georgius 
Loysius, Pervigilium Mercurii, n° 8). 

On the Roman “light,” “cette lumiére qui semble idéale et plus belle que nature,” see 
Chateaubriand’s Lettre a M. de Fontanes sur la Campagne romaine, éd. J.-M. Gautier 
(Geneva: Droz, 1961), pp. 6-7. 


70. This impulse to follow “virtude e conoscenza,” two virtues that qualify a human 
territory, as opposed to the “brutish” throng of individuals, have become typical of the 
portrayal of Ulysses, who is “strong in will / To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield” 
(Tennyson). 


71. Inthe language of Free-Masons, “voyage” was “une épreuve que l’on fait subir 4 ceux 
qui veulent entrer dans l’ordre, ainsi qu’aux adeptes qui veulent passer d’un grade inférieur 
a un grade supérieur” (Grand Dictionnaire Larousse du XIX siecle, s.v. “voyage”). 


72. We find interesting semantic suggestions in another travel/writing-related word: “dis- 
course” comes from dis + currere, which in Old English had kept its original meaning of 
“running to and fro” and “crossing” (as in crossing a river, see the Greek verb zreipw, 
above). Eventually, the metaphorical, abstract concept of “moving from premises to a 
conclusion” took over in many modern languages. 


73. “The fame Ulysses won was not by the ten years ye leay at Troy, but by the time he 
spent in travel” (Robert Greene, The Card of Fancies, 1587). See also Harold Bloom’s 
anthology of interpretations of Ulysses (Ulysses/Odysseus. New York and Philadelphia: 
Chelsea House, 1991) and W. B. Stanford’s The Ulysses Theme (Oxford: Blackwell, 1963). 


Travel and Travel Writing 25 


Once he has arrived at his goal, a foreigner among foreigners, distressed by 
homesickness, isolated by his ignorance of the local language and customs,” the 
traveler is on his own and, if he so chooses, can join local citizens, with whom 
he may attempt to rediscover his lost identity.’* For the traveler’s goal is basically 
the discovery of his own self as much as a quest for knowledge of the outside 
world, as Michelet recognized after his long tour of Germany in 1842: “Combien 
jai voyagé en Jules Michelet, plus qu’en Allemagne.” Unless, of course, he 
is one of those tourists mocked by Montaigne for their superficial approach to 
traveling, those who seem only interested in the statistical approach to the foreign 
reality, such as “combien de pas a Santa Rotonda ou la richesse des calessons de 
la Signora Livia” (Essais, 1, 26).” In such case, the travelers’ loss of identity, 
if we could still talk about any loss, is a modest one, since it was a superficial 
identity anyway. 

Often, the returning traveler is not a happy one. Back in France, Joachim Du 
Bellay, disappointed, remarked that “souvent mal monté, mal sain et mal vestu / 
Sans barbe et sans argent on s’en retourne en France” after acquiring “en voyageant 
un scavoir malheureux” (Les Regrets, LXXXVI and XXIX). This epilogue, that 
marked young Baudelaire’s voyage to the Pacific Ocean in 1841 (“Amer savoir 
celui qu’on tire du voyage”),”* cannot necessarily be construed as a completely 


74. Fynes Moryson remarked that, among the foreigners in Rome, Germans were the most 
isolated ethnic group, “never attaining the perfect use of any forreigne Language, be it never 
so easy.” A German, who was mocked for spending thirty years in Italy without learning 
the language, replied, without blinking: “Ah lieber, was kan man doch in dreissig Jahre 
lehrnen?” (An Itinerary. Londres, J. Beale, 1617, mI, I, ch. 2, p. 15). Which was echoed 
by Sebastiano Locatelli, a young priest from Bologna who spent a year among Italians in 
Paris: “In poco pit tempo d’un anno non si pu aprendere gran cose, e massimamente da 
chi sta in compagnia di persone che vogliono sempre parlare alla paesana” (Viaggio di 
Francia, 1664-1665, ed. L. Monga. Moncalieri: C.I.R.V.I., 1990, p. 356). 


75. Montaigne, who “estim[ait] tous les hommes [s]es compatriotes” (Essais, 11, 9) wrote 
aboute certain Renaissance travelers: “I] leur semble estre hors de leur element quand ils 
sont hors de leur village” (/bid.). These are travelers who, while abroad, “abominent les 
estrangers” and “festoyent [l’]Javanture” of finding “un compatriote en Hongrie.” As wrote 
Sterne, “an Englishman does not travel to see Englishmen” (A Sentimental Journey. 
Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1986, p. 37). It is what Thomas Hoby had wanted to avoid during 
his stay in Italy, in order to achieve “a better knowleg in the tung” and “to goo throwghe 
the dukedom of Calabria by land into Cicilia both to have a sight of the countrey and also 
to absent my self for a while owt of Englishmenne’s companie for the tung’s sake” (The 
Travels and Life of Sir Thomas Hoby, ed. Powell. London: The Camden Miscellany, 1902, 
p. 17, 37-38). 


76. Journal, éd. Paul Viallaneix (Paris: Gallimard, 1959), 1, 457. 
77. See also Goethe (Italienische Reise, 11 October 1786). 


78. “Le Voyage,” 109. There is also a cryptic remark by Thomas Jefferson in a letter to 
J. Bannister, Jr.: “It happears to me that an American coming to Europe for education loses 


26 LUIGI MONGA 


negative result, for the traveler has been marked by his experience in ways that 
he does not always comprehend. Is this not, after all, the same Baudelaire who 
kept dreaming, nostalgically, “d’aller la-bas vivre ensemble,” whose poetry is 
essentially an “invitation au voyage”? 


5. TRAVEL AS A PROFESSION AND MISSION: THE DEVELOPMENT OF TRADE 


The happy time in the Earthly Paradise was a time of stasis. Humanity was content 
and did not need to move about in search of outside happiness: 


... un medesmo paese 
dava a le genti e cuna e sepultura.” 


People of the Golden Age did not know countries other than their own: “Happy 
and peace ful, they /ived in their own land with many good things” (Hesiod, Works 
and Days, 118-120, italics mine); “Nullaque mortales preter sua litora norunt” 
(Ovid, Metam. 1, 96). The earth was untouched by hoe or plowshare (1, 101-102) 
and the ship had not begun to carry to “forraine shores or warres or wares ill 
sought”: 


... né porto peregrino 
© guerra o merce a gli altrui lidi il pino.® 


Man was delighted to remain wherever the gods had put him. 


Quam bene Saturno vivebant rege, priusquam 
tellus in longas est patefacta vias! 

nondum czruleas pinus contempserat undas, 
effusum ventis prebueratque sinum, 

nec vagus ignotis repetens compendia terris 


in his knowledge, in his morals, in his health, in his habits, and in his happiness” (October 
15, 1785, in Henry S. Randall, The Life of Thomas Jefferson (New York: Da Capo, 1972 
[reprint]), 1, 434. Ironically, there is also a line of thought that suggests that travel can be 
a successful therapy to help forget one’s own set of idées regues: “N’apprends qu’avec 
réserve; — writes H. Michaux — toute une vie ne suffit pas pour désapprendre ce que, naif, 
soumis, tu t’es laissé mettre dans la téte — innocent! — sans songer aux conséquences” 
(quoted by Adrien Pasquali, Le Tour des horizons: Critique et récits de voyages. Paris: 
Klinksieck, 1994, p. 26). 


79. Luigi Tansillo, Canzoniere, ed. E. Percopo (Naples: Artigianelli, 1926, I, 228); see 
G. Costa, La leggenda dei secoli d’oro nella letteratura italiana (Bari: Laterza, 1972). 


80. Torquato Tasso, Aminta [1573], chorus of Act 1, sc. 2. The topos of the ship carrying 
overseas war and trade (including the synecdochal use of pinus for ship) is taken from Ovid 
(“Nondum casa suis, peregrinum ut viseret orbem, / montibus in liquidis pinus descenderat 
undas,” Met. 1, 94-95). Battista Guarini echoed it in his Il pastor fido [1590]: “ ... i 
peregrino / va l’altrui terra e ’] mar turbando il pino” (Act Iv, sc. 9, chorus). The English 
lines are from Samuel Daniel’s 1601 translation of the Aminta chorus. 


Travel and Travel Writing 27 


presserat externa navita merce ratem. (Tibullus, I, tl, 35-40). 


Travel, in the last analysis, is an undertaking of unhappy humans, dissatisfied 
with their lot.*' A painful cooperation between the elements and mankind was 
established after the Fall: “Maledicta terra in opere tuo: in laboribus comedes ex 
ea cunctis diebus vite tue” (Gen 3:17). Chased from Eden, Adam and Eve 
embarked on life’s pilgrimage: 


The world was all before them, where to choose 
Their place of rest ... (Milton, Paradise Lost, Xl, 646-647) 


But there was no rest for them, for the Iron Age, our present time, is the age of 
travel and trade (“vela dabant ventis ... fluctibus ignotis insultavere carine,” 
Metam. 1, 132, 134). It is the age of Mercury, the god of travelers, traders, and 
thieves: 


Impiger extremos currit mercator ad Indos 
per mare pauperiem fugiens, per saxa, per ignis. (Horace, Epist. 1, 1, 45-46) 


Yet not everything connected with travel (and commerce) is intrinsically 
negative, for the journey still represents the victory of the human spirit over the 
limits nature has set. The Arab world revered the merchant’s calling.*’ In the 
medieval Dit des marchéans, the merchant/poet Phélippot demonstrates that 
merchants will gain eternal salvation because they have risked their life to provide 
their fellow human beings with much needed goods: 


Je di c’on doit les marchéanz 

Deseur tout gent honorer; 

Quar il vont par terre et par mer 

Et en maint estrange pais 

Por querre laine et vair et gris. (ll. 11-15)% 


81. “Telle saison fut bien dorée, / En laquelle on se contentoit / De voir de son toict la 
fumée, / Lors que la terre on ne hantoit / D’un autre Soleil allumée” (Ronsard, Odes, V, 
x, 10, 94-98; cf. also Flaminio’s “De se proficiscente Neapolim”). 

One could be tempted to mention here the concept of stabilité that Paul Hazard saw 
as the major characteristic of the Age of Louis xIv: “L’esprit classique ... aime la stabilité. 
... Aprés la Renaissance et la Réforme, grandes aventures, est venue l’époque du recueille- 
ment” (La Crise de la conscience européenne, 1680-1715. Paris: Boivin, 1935, p. 3). See, 
however, Emanuele Kanceff’s critique, based on his tally of travel texts of the Age classique 
(“De la stabilité au mouvement? Il problema del ‘Viaggio in Italia’ nel Seicento alla luce 
della critica” in his Poliopticon italiano. Geneva: Slatkine, 1992, 1, 67-83). 


82. “I commend the traders to you—the Prophet Mohammed once said—for they are the 
courtiers of the horizons and God’s trusted servants on earth” (quoted by Zvi Dor-Ner in 
his Columbus and the Age of Discovery. New York: W. Morrow & Co., 1991, p. 17). 


83. In Recueil général et complet des Fabliaux, ed. A. de Montaiglon and G. Raynaud 
(Paris, 1872-1890; Reprint: New York. B. Franklin, s.d.), I, 128. 


28 LUIGI MONGA 


It is no wonder that the dichotomy home/abroad reflects other dichotomies, 
safety/danger, travel/travail: 


Ay, now am I in Arden: the more fool I; 
when I was at home I was in a better place: 
but travellers must be content.™ 


Staying at home, like Candide, to “cultiver [s]on jardin” (perhaps after numerous 
adventures) is a corollary of the aurea mediocritas: oixoc ¢idoc, oiKoG &piotos.® 
But it leads to a life of dullness and poverty, for business and gain are the moving 
forces in the modern world: 


a le grand’alme, 
di troppo agevol ben schife, Cillenio 
il comodo presenti a cui le miglia 
pregio acquistino e l’oro: e d’ogn’intorno: 
commercio, risonar s’oda, commercio. (G. Parini, [J Giorno, 11, 686-690) 


The voyages to the New World by the Spanish and Portuguese were undertaken 
to find new sources of gold. Columbus’s diary features many instances of the 
Admiral’s obsession “de saber si avia oro” (October 13, 1492) in the newly-found 
land: “Determiné de ... partir para el Sudueste ... a buscar el oro y piedras 
preciosas” (same day).*° The greed for gold®’ (Virgil’s auri sacra fames, AEn. 
Il, 57) and the hope of huge profits led the king of Spain to finance an otherwise 
far-fetched enterprise.** It was also used by Columbus to exhort a crew exhausted 


84. Shakespeare, As You Like It (II, 1V, 13-15). See also the comic complaint uttered by 
Panurge during the storm in Rabelais’s Quart Livre: “O que troys et quatre foys heureulx 
sont ceulx qui plantent chous! ... Car ilz ont toujours en terre un pied, |’aultre n’en est pas 
loing” (ch. Xvil). By the time of Léry’s Histoire d’un voyage en terre de Brésil (1578), this 
was already a proverb: “Ha! qu’il fait bon planter des choux, et beaucoup meilleur ouyr 
deviser de la mer et des sauvages que d’y aller voir!” (ch. XxI). 


85. Stephanus Vinandius Pighius’s Greek quotation is taken from Erasmus’ Adagia (n° 2238, 
Ill, 11, 38), translated as “Est grata domus, domus optima semper.” Pascal wrote that “tout 
le malheur des hommes vient d’une seule chose, qui est de ne savoir pas demeurer en repos 
dans une chambre” (Pensées, «Divertissements», n° 136""-269""). Pighius reminds his readers 
that “Mysonem Chemzum sapientem appellatum et Aglaum quemdam Psophidium senem 
ac pauperem olim oraculo Delphico Gygi Lydorum regi amplissimo felicitate prelatum esse: 
quod predii sui, in quo natus erat, limites numquam fuisset egressus” (Hercules prodicius, 
Seu principis juventulis vita et peregrinatio. Anvers: Plantin, 1587, p. 133). 


86. Crist6bal Colén, “Diario del primer viaje” in Textos y documentos completos: relaciones 
de viajes, cartas y memoriales, ed. C. Varela (Madrid: Alianza, 1982), p. 32. 


87. Jean Delumeau puts the “manque chronique de métaux précieux” as the main reason 
for the 15th-century interest in new routes to the Orient (La Civilisation de la Renaissance. 
Paris: Arthaud, 1973, p. 60). 


88. “For riches, in the luminous words of Huizinga, had not yet acquired “the spectral 


Travel and Travel Writing 29 


by weeks at sea: “el Almirante, después que hubo animado a todos con largas 
promesas de muchas tierras y de riquezas, para que tuviesen esperanza y disminu- 
yese el miedo que tenfan de tan largo viaje.”® Conveniently, such greed did not 
conflict with Columbus’s other goal of spreading Christianity, for a man with gold 
could even “succeed in bringing souls to paradise.”® It is the synthesis of a 
peculiar dichotomy (God and Mammon, Mt 6:24) that usually appears at the very 
foundation of the conquest of New Worlds. In the 13th century Franciscan friars 
and Venetian merchants followed Marco Polo on the eastern route, and three 
centuries later conquistadores and missionaries plied the ocean aboard the same 
ships. The dichotomy has become a current, curious symbiosis.” 


6. TRAVEL AS A MALE ACTIVITY: THE “PHALLIC” VOYAGE 


From its very beginning, travel appears as a “phallic” voyage. The male, Ulysses, 
is the one who leaves home to wander throughout the world, leaving Penelope to 
keep intact the household and its economy. There is “a set of gender determina- 
tions: ... the domestic(ated) woman, Penelope, maintains the property of the home 


impalpability which capitalism, founded in credit, would give later: what haunt[ed] the 
imagination was still the tangible, yellow gold” (Hugh Thomas, Conquest: Montezuma, 
Cortés, and The Fall of Old Mexico. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1993, p. 63); cf. also 
Tzvetan Todorov, The Conquest of America: The Question of the Other (New York: Harper 
& Row), 1984, pp. 8-10. In a letter written on October 28, 1495, Michele da Cuneo, a 
member of Columbus’s 1493-94 expedition, emphasized that the search for gold was the 
main goal of the mission: “stetimo iorni 29 cum pessimi tempi e mal mangiare e pegio 
bevere; ma per la cupidita del ditto oro tutti stavamo forti e gagliardi” (quoted in Nuovo 
Mondo: Gli Italiani [1492-1565], ed. P. Collo and P. L. Crovetto. Turin: Einaudi, 1991, 
p. 98). 


89. Hernando Colon, Historia del Almirante (Madrid: Historia 16, 1984), p. 99. Colum- 
bus’s longing for gold, according to A. Milhou, is probably inspired and influenced by 
medieval messianic implications as well as obscure alchimistic theories (Colén y su 
mentalidad mesidnica y el ambiente franciscanista espafol. Valladolid, 1983, p. 118). 


90. “El oro es excelentisimo; del oro se hace tesoro, y con él, quien lo tiene, hace cuanto 
quiere en el mundo, y llega a que echa las Animas al Paraiso” (C. Colon, Textos y documen- 
tos,, ed. cit., p. 302). 


91. Another idiosyncratic symbiosis, which in French is characterized by the symbols of 
le sabre et le goupillon (sabre and aspergillum) can be observed through the entire history 
of the colonization of the New World. Following closely the instructions received in 
November 1538 from Antonio Hurtado de Mendoza, the viceroy of New Spain, a Franciscan 
friar, fra Marco da Nizza, set up to explore the dangerous Mexican territory so that “Dios 
Nuestro Sefior puede ser tan servido y su santa feé ansalzada y acrescentado el patrimonio 
Real de Su Magestad” (Coleccién de documentos inéditos relativos al descubrimiento, 
conquista y colonisacion de las posesiones espanolas en América y Oceania, ed. J. Pacheco 
and F. Cardenas. Madrid, 1865, 11, 344; also in Nuovo Mondo: Gli Italiani [1492-1565], 
Cit?) py 4y7): 


30 LUIGI MONGA 


against would-be usurpers while her husband wanders about.” But there is 
something sinister about women wanderers: Helen going to Troy, Medea fleeing 
with Jason, and Ariadne with Theseus. 

Away from home, men encounter ‘other’ women, alluring and/or menacing, 
seductive and/or castrating: Nausicaa, Circe, Dido, islands with beguiling feminine 
names (Canaria, Icaria, Jamaica, Bermuda,” la Réunion) that lure the unattached 
traveler into exotic and erotic games (or impossible dreams, as in Watteau’s “L’ Em- 
barquement pour l’ile de Cythére”), witness Donne’s ecstatic utterance in the heat 
of passion: 


Upon the Islands fortunate we fall, 
Not faynt Canaries, but Ambrosiall, 
Her swelling lips ... * 


According to Eric Leed, “in territorialized societies , the woman is the embodiment 
and the content of ‘place,’ and her relations to an outside world, her very freedom, 
are conditional upon her relation to men.”** Keepers of the hume by nature, 
women are unabashedly stereotyped in Renaissance texts: 


Cum inter officia virilia peregrinatio referatur, foeminam oixovp6y natura ipsa non 
voluit. Et hoc omnino in Germania verum est, ut non nisi vel misera vel lasciva 
et petulans peregrinatura videatur.” 


It is true that, in spite of being considered “homebound,” women who were 
not lascive et petulantes did travel from time to time, although mostly as pilgrims, 
witness the /tinerarium Egeri@, a 5th-century journal of a journey to the Holy Land 


92. Georges Van Den Abbeele, Travel as a Metaphor: From Montaigne to Rousseau 
(Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1992), p. xxv. 


93. Cf. Andrew Marvell’s “Bermudas” in The Poems and Letters, ed. H. M. Margoliouth 
(Oxford: Clarendon, 1971), I, 17-18, an island transformed in a paradisiacal garden, but 
already defined as a “happy island” by Edmund Waller in “Battle of the Summer Islands” 
(1645), I, 6-11. 


94. “Loves Progress” (Elegie, XVI); see also another passage in Donne’s poetry: “Licence 
my roving hands, and let them goe / Behind, before, above, between, below. / Oh my 
America, my new found lande! (“To His Mistris Going to Bed,” ll. 25-27). Cf. T. J. 
Cachey, Jr., Le Isole Fortunate: appunti di storia letteraria italiana (Rome: “L’Erma” di 
Bretschneider, 1995. 


95. The Mind of the Traveler, p. 118. 


96. Georgius Loysius, Pervigilium Mercurii, cit., n° 109. Fynes Moryson, a few decades 
later, suggested that travel is a ‘masculinizing’ force for businesswomen: “Women for 
suspition of chastitie are most unfit for this course, howsoever the masculine women of the 
Low Countries use to make voyages for traffike” (An Itinerary. Glasgow: MacLehose & 
Sons, 1907 [reprint], 1, 349). 


Travel and Travel Writing 31 


by Egeria (sometimes also spelled Etheria), a nun from southern France.” 
Chaucer’s “Prologue” to his Canterbury Tales presents two nuns and a “good wyf 
... Of bisyde Bath” among twenty-nine travelers, and in the 14th century Bona da 
Pisa made several times the pilgrimage to Rome and Compostela, while Margery 
Kempe spelled out in her autobiography the extraordinary series of journeys she 
undertook to Rome, Jerusalem, and Santiago de Compostela. The anti-feminist 
spirit of many medieval texts, however, keeps portraying traveling women as a 
horrible hindrance for their male counterparts: 


Le temps nouvel s’approuche ..., lors emprenent 4 aller en quelque pelerinage. 
... [Les femmes] ont entreprins d’aller en voiage pour ce qu’ilze ne pouent pas 
bien faire 4 leur guise en leurs mesons. ... Maintenent elle dit qu’elle a ung estref 
trop long et l’autre trop court, maintenent lui fault son mantel, maintenant le lesse, 
puis dit que le cheval trote trop dur et en est malade; maintenent elle descent, et 
puis la fault remonter pour passer ung pont ou ung mauvés chemin, maintenent 
elle ne peut menger et si convient que le bon homme qui a plus troté que ung 
chien, trote parmy la ville a lui querir ce qu’elle demande. ...% 


The hero is the man who goes to war, leaving his spouse at home, a deeply rooted 
convention in the Western literary canon from Gilgamesh and the Homeric poems 
to the Victorian novel and the pre-“politically correct” society. After defeating 
or conciliating the powers that prevent him from carrying on his quest, the hero 
journeys through threats of an unfamiliar world, finally re-emerging from his ordeal 
and gaining sexual union or recognition or divinization.” Such are 


los hombres de voz dura, 
los que doman caballos y dominan los rios, 
los hombres que les suena el esqueleto y cantan 
con una boca llena de sol y pedernales. 
(Federico Garcia Lorca, “Llanto por Ignacio Sanchez Mejias”) 


For travel has always been considered a conquest of some sort, and therefore a 
male activity. The Grand Tour, in which one engaged in order to study Italy’s 
antiquities, was also an appropriation of relics and artwork by the (male) traveler 


97. Egeria’s Travels to the Holy Land, ed. John Wilkinson (Jerusalem: Ariel, 1981) and 
Egérie, Journal de voyage (Itinéraire), ed. Pierre Maraval (Paris: Ed. du Cerf, 1982). 


98. Les xvjoies de mariage, ed. J. Rychner (Geneva: Droz, 1963), p. 67-69. See also the 
female characters in the fabliau “Trois dames de Paris.” Even St. Teresa of Avila, one of 
the greatest mystics, and a “doctor,” of the Catholic Church, who made extensive journeys 
to found convents and settle controversies, was called “fémina inquieta y andariega” (See 
below Juan Ferran, “Viaje y literatura,” p. 68). 


99. Joseph Campbell, The Hero With a Thousand Faces (New York: Meridian Books, 
1962), pp. 245-247. 


32 LUIGI MONGA 


who brought them back to his country.'” 

There is, of course, nothing inherently masculine about travel. In fact, women 
at times joined the Grand Tour already in progress, as did Lady Whetenall, who 
died in 1650 in Padua, in childbirth.'"' Their lessons, however, were totally 
forgotten, for The Punch, a few centuries later, kept rephrasing the same rhetorical 
question: 


A lady an explorer? A traveller in skirts? 

The notion’s just a trifle too seraphic; 

Let them stay and mind the babies, 

Or hem our ragged shirts, 

But they mustn’t, can’t, and shan’t be geographic. '” 


And if there are certain drawbacks to a woman traveler, her formal education, for 
instance, being (in centuries past) inferior to her brother’s, Lady Eastlake thinks 
that “the difference between them is greatly in her favour,” for men’s travel 
accounts “are to do with What and Where, and women’s with How and Why.”'™ 
Women would, therefore, make better travel writers than men, for 


if the gentleman knows more of ancient history and ancient languages, the lady 
knows more of human nature and modern languages; while one of her great 
charms, as a describer of foreign scenes and manners, more even than the 
closeness or liveliness of her mode of observation, is that very purposelessness 
resulting from the more desultory nature of her education." 


Eccentric lady travelers and old maids, mostly British, were often described 
with patronizing admiration by their male counterparts. “Carrying in their bosom 


100. Joachim du Bellay emphasized the literary conquest of the past (as well as his 
contemporary Italian) tradition with his use of the verb piller, a legal looting of the vast 
booty of genres and themes and images that could help the illustration of French literature: 
“La donq’, Francoys, marchez couraigeusement vers cete superbe cité Romaine: et des 
serves depouilles d’elle ... ornez voz temples et autelz. ... Pillez moy sans conscience les 
sacrez thesors de ce temple Delphique ainsi que vous avez fait autrefoys” (La Deffence et 
illustration de la langue francoyse, conclusion). 


101. The journal of her travels, written by Richard Lassels, is MSS Add. 4217 in the 
British Library; see also Edward Chaney, “Richard Lassels and the Establishment of the 
Grand Tour: Catholic Cosmopolitans and Royalists in Exile, 1630-1660” (Ph. D. disserta- 
tion, University of London, The Wartburg Institute, 1982). 


102. “To the Royal Geographic Society” (Punch, June 10, 1893). 


103. Jane Robinson (ed.), Unsuitable For Ladies: An Anthology of Women Travellers 
(Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1994), pp. XIII-xIVv. 


104. Lady Eastlake, Lady Traveller, in Quarterly Review, 151 (1845). See also Elizabeth 
A. Bohls, Women Travel Writers and the Language of Aesthetics (Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press, 1995). 


Travel and Travel Writing 33 


a man’s heart,”'® these pioneers asserted, perhaps unconsciously, their right to 
do what men had done for centuries, and saw their journeying as an escape from 
the duties of daily drudgery and “an opportunity to experience solipsistic enjoyment 
and enrich themselves spiritually and mentally.”'°° Their efforts to open up new 
paths for traveling sisters will hardly be understood by their male counterparts, 
who have rarely experienced the insults to which women were (and still are) 
subject, in certain countries: 


Their state of semi-civilization — wrote Mary Eyre about mid-19th 
century Spain — rendered it most unpleasant to visit the magnificent 
palaces and churches in her cities; and absolutely impossible to gather 
the rare and beautiful plants that adorn her mountains. Even accompa- 
nied by a guide, I was yet subjected to hooting and insult: simply 
because I was a stranger.'” 


Women explorers, missionaries, and anthropologists, philanthropists and ennu- 
yées'®® end up adopting “a position of gender ambiguity, taking on the ‘masculine’ 
virtues of strength, initiative and decisiveness while retaining the less aggressive 
qualities considered appropriate to their own sex.”'® It is a meandering path 
towards gender equality, a journey, however, that will not totally unify the narrative 
voices of travel literature, for male and female discourses are still different, and 
the voices of the speakers/writers maintain their “generic” characteristics. 


7. TRAVEL AS DISCOVERY AND CONFRONTATION: THE SELF AND THE OTHER 


The cross-cultural contacts of travelers create a collective self-awareness and a 
subsequent understanding of the “alterity” of others. Terms like barbaroi, goyim, 
or gaijin define otherness sometimes ina derogatory manner. They are originated 


105. W.H. Davenport Adams, Celebrated Women Travellers of the Nineteenth Century 
(London, 1903), p. 433. Heinrich Heine reviewed and compared some travel récits: “Besides 
Goethe’s Italienischer Reisen, Mrs. Morgan’s Italy and Mme de Staél’s Corinne should be 
read. What these ladies lack in talent, they have replaced it, not to look pitiful next to 
Goethe, with a manly feeling (mdannliche Gesinnungen) which Goethe lacked. Mrs. Morgan 
speaks like a man” (Reisebilder, ch. Xxvl, in Werke und Briefe. Berlin: Aufbau, 1961, I, 
250). 


106. Shirley Foster, Across New Worlds: Nineteenth-Century Women Travellers and Their 
Writings (New York: Harvester Wheatsheaf, 1990), p. 8. 


107. And, we may add, a woman (Mary Eyre, Over the Pyrenees into Spain. London: 
Bentley, 1865). 


108. Deeply depressed after a sad love affair, Anna B. Jameson wrote the journal of her 
journey to the Continent, freely mixing reality and fiction in her immensely popular Diary 
of an Ennuyée, published anonymously in London (Colburn, 1826). 


109. Shirley Foster, Across New Worlds, p. 11. 


34 LUIGI MONGA 


by peaceful encounters or bloody clashes between ethnic groups. The language 
is often the trademark of diversity, according to the etymology of the word 
Bé&pBapos (stutterer, as a speaker of a foreign tongue),''° but religious distinc- 
tions, and even the distribution of power, often interfere in the semantics of differ- 
ence.!!! 

Postulating the difference between a and D is the first step in the process of 
discovering “otherness.” The non-coincidence of these items soon becomes a set 
of connections between a and b, which is eventually recounted in narrative form 
by the individual (the traveler) who first noticed them. The narrator from the group 
a tells the people of a about the differences he has discovered in b; “sameness” 
and “anti-sameness” are the basic structures not only of the utopian discourse but 
of all descriptions of far away places.'! 

The discovery of someone’s otherness often results in a disapproving judgement 
of the other. It is not a mere coincidence that in many languages a pessimistic 
semantic connotation evolves from the word stranger to intimate the suggestion 
of strange. Similar binomial occurrences are recorded in several Romance languag- 
es: straniero/strano, étranger/étrange, extranjero/extrano, etc. Moreover, 
allotropic forms such as strano/estraneo and strange/extraneous are easily 
connected with other related terms like stravagante, extravagant, extravagante, 
etc., which carry an etymological rationalization of the “abnormal” behavior of 
somebody who appears to be different, because he is moving outside the “normal” 
(i.e., our own) way of life (extra-vagans literally means “moving erratically out- 
side”). The Greek adejective £évoc, which is at the origin of this etymological 
errand, implies a degree of foreignness and difference: the €évoc, usually an alien, 


110. Thucydides mentioned that Greeks became aware of their own peculiar Hellenic 
character only when facing the invading Persians, and the Homeric poems lack the self- 
awareness of a collective Hellenicity (“He does not even use the word ‘foreigners’ 
[barbaroi], and this, in my opinion, is because in his time the Hellenes were not yet known 
by one name, and so marked off as something separate from the outside world,” History 
of the Peloponnesian War). \t was basically a linguistic distinction, which implied that the 
“other” was the one who did not speak Greek. Even Ovid, in exile, called himself “barbarus 
hic ego sum, qui non intellegor illis” (Tristia, v, x, 37: because he could not be understood 
by the Getes). See also Todorov’s discussion of this problem (The Conquest of America, 
pp. 190-192) and Michel Bideaux’s analysis in his essay “Le Voyage d’Italie: instrument 
de la connaissance de soi par la fréquentation d’autrui” (Cf. below, pp. 97-111). 


111. In Arabic the term nasrani (Nazarene, Christians) has clearly religious connotations, 
while in Swahili musungu (Caucasian), once used to indicate white colonialists, is presently 
applied to government bureaucrats (normally black): religion and power become watersheds 
of some sort. 


112. Frangois Hartog, The Mirror of Herodotus: The Representation of the Other in the 
Writing of History (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1988), pp. 
212-259; J.-F. Lyotard, Discours, figures (Paris: Klinksieck, 1971), p. 142. 


Travel and Travel Writing 35 


at times a mercenary, is inevitably seen just as “peculiar” and “strange.”''? The 
semantic field of the Latin hostis began with the notion of “stranger,” which 
developed into that of “enemy” under conditions that are still philologically 
unclear.''* This last meaning, however, disappeared in the Imperial period. 
Hospes (guest) and hostis are closely connected to the same Indo-European root: 
stranger, enemy, and guest or host.!'!° In 13th-century, oste in Italian and ost 
in French had the meaning of “enemy,” “hostile army,” while carrying at the same 
time the meaning of “person who gave or received hospitality”; from that we can 
trace all the terminology related to ostello and osteria. Even the German word 
Gast, analogous to the English “guest,” comes from a Gothic form gasts that 
indicated a “stranger with hostile intentions.” 

Discovering alterity is a complex process; it involves finding the other in 
ourselves (“Je est un autre,” as Rimbaud said''®) and results in countless ramifica- 
tions: suspicions and fears, crisis of one own’s value, or even idle pride. Dante, 
“cui mundus est patria,”''’ seemed less concerned with alterity. Like all human- 
ists after him, he could find in his Jatinitas a common denominator among the 
world’s scholars, just like Saint Paul’s romanitas had qualified him as a first-class 
citizen of the world (Acts 22:27-28).''® Montaigne, on the other hand, undertook 
his travels abroad in order to exercise his spirit “4 remarquer les choses inco- 
gneués” (Essais, I, viii). A true citizen of the world, in the modern sense, the 


113. Hjalmar Frisk, Griechisches Etymologisches Worterbuch (Heidelberg: Universitats- 
verlag, 1970), II, 333-334. 


114. A, Ernout et A. Meillet, Dictionnaire étymologique de la langue latine (Paris: 
Klincksiech, 1959), s. v. “hostis.” 


115. Keith Spalding, An Historical Dictionary of German Figurative Usage (Oxford: 
Blackwell, 1967), s.v. “Gast”: “indeed so near to the meaning “enemy” that one can see 
in it a parallel to the relationship in Latin hostis between the meaning of ‘stranger’ and 
‘enemy’.” The notion of ‘enemy’ disapperas in the 16th century (p. 919). See also Joan 
Corominas, Diccionario critico etimolégico castellano e hispanico (Madrid: Grados, 1980), 
s.v. “huesped” which connects hostis and potis. 


116. Lettre du voyant, 15 mai 1871. 
117. De vulgari eloquentia, V1, 6. 


118. Hughof St. Victor had already emphasized these positive elements in terms of mystical 
denial, for education stems from a meeting with other human beings whose foreignness 
(alterity) marks the intelligent traveler: “Delicatus ille est adhuc cui patria dulce est; fortis 
autem jam cui omne solum patria est; perfectus vero cui mundus totus exsilium est” (Eruditio 
didascalica, WM, 20) in Migne, Patrologia latina, v. 176, col. 778. Borrowing this quotation 
from Edward Said, who in turn had borrowed it from Auerbach, Todorov (p. 250) totally 
warped Hugh of St. Victor’s mystical point. It is not “a being who has lost his country 
without thereby acquiring another” that the medieval theologian declares perfect, as Todorov 
imagines, but someone who finds himself exiled from God, and therefore attempts to return 
to Him. 


36 LUIGI MONGA 


French philosopher explicitly sought to absorb every enriching experience. 

It was the medieval discovery of the Canary Islands that foreshadowed the first 
striking modern encounter with the “other.” Petrarch, after praising a legendary 
Ireland, “cui pro delitiis otium, pro summis opibus ... libertas,” launched a literary 
revival of the theme of the Fortunate Islands,''’ treating this topos in a rather 
disillusioned manner: “scio tamen quod multa feruntur et scribuntur, propter que 
non plene fortunatarum cognomini terrarum fortuna conveniat.” In fact, he 
considered the main activities of that populace, hunting and shepherding, as 
primitive (and negative) endeavors: “non absimilem beluis ... insolitudinibus errare 
seu cum feris seu cum gregibus suis” (De vita solitaria, 1). Pietro Martire d’ An- 
ghiera is among the first writers to assign ideal virtues to the “noble savages” of 
the New World—a fashion that Rousseau and Diderot will eventually find irresis- 
tible: 


Sunt enim adeo parvo contenti, quod in ea ampla tellure magis agri supersint, 
quam quicquam desit. Btas est illis aurea, neque fossis neque parietibus aut 
sepibus predia sepiunt. Apertis vivunt hortis, sine legibus, sine libris, sine 
iudicibus suapte natura rectum colunt, malum ac scelestum eum iudicant qui 
inferre cuiquidem iniuriam delectatur.'”° 


This idea appears, although from a slightly different perspective and not without 
a strong implication of social reformation, in Montaigne’s conversation with the 
“cannibales” he met in Rouen: 


ils avoyent apergeu qu’il y avoit parmy nous des hommes pleins et gorgez de 
toutes sortes de commoditez, et que leurs moitiez estoient mendians 4 leurs portes, 
décharnez de faim et de pauvreté; et trouvoient estrange comme ces moitiez icy 
necessiteuses pouvoient souffrir une telle injustice, qu’ils ne prinsent les autres 
a la gorge, ou missent le feu 4 leurs maisons.'! 


119. The passage in the Canzoniere (no. 135) is considered the common source of many 
examples in the poetic repertoire of many modern literatures, from Boiardo and Tasso, to 
Ronsard and Donne (cf. T. J. Cachey, Jr., “Petrarch, Boccaccio, and the New World 
Encounter,” Stanford Italian Review, X, 1 [1990], 45-59). 


120. Deorbe novo (Madrid, 1530), ch. m, f. x. Cf. Shakespeare’s The Tempest (1, 1, 143- 
164), a passage which probably relies on the works of Pietro Martire d’Anghiera. 


121. Essais, 1, 31. The traditional reading of Montaigne’s approval of the “noble savage” 
was revised in an essay by David Quint: did Montaigne fail to recognize the barbarity of 
the cannibales, blinded by “an incurable ethnocentrism" or a “colonialist ideology”? (“A 
Reconsideration of Montaigne’s ‘Des cannibales’,” Modern Language Quarterly, LI, 4 
[1990], 459-489). Francois Rigolot underscored the “vue pluraliste du monde” which is at 
the foundation of Montaigne’s philosophy, contrasting it with Todorov’s view, which 
postulates that “l’autre n’est ... jamais pergu ni connu” by the French philosopher (Nous 
et les autres: La réflexion frangaise sur la diversité humaine. Paris: Seuil, 1989, p. 606; 
see also F. Rigolot’s essay “1492, 1592, 1992: questions d’anniversaires — Montaigne et 
l’Amérique,” The French Review, LXVi, 1 [1993], 1-11). 


Travel and Travel Writing a7. 


Trouble comes to Paradise very soon: discovering cannibalism and human 
sacrifices among the natives leads the visitor from Europe to classify them as 
inferior individuals to conquer and to convert (or even to destroy, in the course 
of either process). An outsider in this complex predicament of cultural confron- 
tation, the Milanese merchant Girolamo Benzoni set forth unequivocally in his 
Historia del Mondo Nuovo (1565) the heavy responsibilities of the conquistadores, 
whose cruel behavior towards the natives of Hispaniola led most of them to suicide: 


vedendo g]’Isolani che da ogni lato erano oppressi da intolerabile e incomportabile 
fatiche e travagli e che non v’era ordine di ricuperare la liberta loro, piangendo 
€ sospirando, ogn’uno desiderava di morire. Perd molti come disperati se ne 
andavano a i boschi e 1a s’impiccavano, avendo prima i figliuoli uccisi, dicendo 
che assai meglio era loro il morire che vivere cosi miseramente, servendo a tali 
e tanti pessimi ladroni e tiranni ferocissimi.!” 


And Bartolomé de las Casas, whose complex view of the American natives came 
from personal experience, reacted—in vain—against the common practice of his 
contemporaries .'” 

In any case, it is in the relationship between the individual and the foreign 
“other” that leasure travel still finds its intellectual (and, at times, commercial) 
justification. Defining places and people as exotic and exoteric (etymologically , 
“outsiders”) makes them the immediate goal of today’s vacationers. But in the 
long run such “exotic” societies rapidly assimilate the ways of the western world 
(or, more crudely, western travelers tend to impose upon the “natives” their shallow 
values). The development of modern mass tourism eventually marks the end of 
the “other.” The same big hotels have sprouted up everywhere; easy money and 
faceless throngs of tourists may force a bland leveling of whatever is still different 
among the native “others.” Will the global village finally offer the tourist nothing 
but a series of beautiful sites and sham dancers? 


8. TRAVEL AS LEISURE: FROM PETRARCH TO THE “AGE OF THE TOURIST” 


The joys of wandering are rather elusive, for hodoeporic literature has traditionally 
Offered tales of momentous ordeals and toilsome journeys. It is unusual to find 
happy travelers who can sing, as in the Arabian Nights: 


My friend, if you only knew what a wonderful thing is travel! ... All the poets 
have sung the delights of wandering. One of them said: 
Sing the joys of wandering, 


122. A good choice of texts and a critical introduction to Benzoni’s work is in Nuovo 
Mondo: Gli Italiani (1492-1565), cit., p. 574. 


123. See Angel Losada, Fray Bartolomé de las Casas a la luz de la moderna critica 
historica (Madrid: Tecnos, 1970), pp. 244-288. 


38 LUIGI MONGA 


All that’s beautiful travels far; 
Even the moon-colored pearl 

Must forsake the deep green levels, 
And be drawn across the beaches 
Where the waiting merchants are, 
Ere it shows and glows and reaches 


To a crown’s immortal bevels 
Or the white neck of a girl! (The 256th night) 


Among endless reports of dejected travelers,'“ one of the earliest records 
of pleasure in Renaissance travel is Petrarch’s account of his excursion to Mount 
Ventoux (1336). He climbed that mountain just because it was there (“sola videndi 
insignem loci altitudinem cupiditate ductus”), as do many modern mountaineers. 
And Petrarch felt the need to apologize for an activity he considered so frivolous. 
In his account of this hike he wrote that he was struck by Livy’s report (XL, 21) 
of King Philip of Macedonia climbing Mount Hemus for no specific reason other 
than viewing two seas from the top (“e cuius vertice duo maria videri”). Having 
thus established a good auctoritas, Petrarch decided that his waste of time could 
be forgiven, since he was not a public person but a simple scholar, and rather 
young to boot.!*° 

By the end of the 17th century, mountain climbing appears to be a natural 
activity of the German travelers abroad, according to Saint-Evremont’s comedy 
Sir Politick Would-Be: 


Il n’y a point de montagne renommeée qu’il ne nous soit nécessaire de voir: qu’il 


124. Some individuals are so happily set in their niche that they resist as far as they can 
any attempt to be dislodged: when they set forth, their travel is a via dolorosa, whatever 
their destination or motivation may be. See my account of one such reluctant traveler, John 
Bostok: “Inter infectionem pestis et caloris intemperiem: The Voyage to the Council of 
Pavia-Siena (1423) of the Abbot of St. Albans,” Bulletin of the Society for Renaissance 
Studies, 1V, 1 (1986), 7-17. 


125. “Excusabile visum est in iuvene privato quod in rege sene non carpitur” (letter to 
Dionigio Roberti, 26 April 1336, in Familiares [Iv, 1]); see Ambrogio Levati, Viaggi di 
Francesco Petrarca in Francia, in Germania ed in Italia (Milan: Classici, 1920). It is true 
that even Jesus climbed mountains, but he did so for specific purposes, using the height of 
a hill as a metaphor: the mons excelsus of his transfiguration (Mt 17:1), the mons where 
he taught his message (Mr? 5:1), fed the crowd (Mr 15:29), retired to pray (Mt 14:23) or 
from which he sent his disciples to their mission (Mt 28:16). 

Petrarch’s narrative also offers fascinating insights on the process of choosing the 
companions for his journey, looking for the virtues of the perfect traveler: “Sed de sotio 
cogitanti, mirum dictu, vix amicorum quisquam omni ex parte ydoneus videbatur: ... Hic 
segnior, ille vigilantior; hic tardior, ille celerior; hic mestior, ille letior; denique hic stultior, 
prudentior ille quam vellem; huius silentium, illius procacitas; huius pondus ac pinguedo, 
illius macies atque imbecillitas terrebat; huius frigida incuriositas, illius ardens occupatio 
dehortabatur.” 


Travel and Travel Writing 39 


y ait de la neige ou non, n’importe; il faut aller au haut, s’il est possible. '7° 


A few decades after Petrarch, Gilles Le Bouvier underscored in the introduc- 
tion to his Livre de la description des pays the pleasure he derived from his travels 
through the world: 


Pour ce que plusieurs gens de diverses nacions et contrees se delectent et prennent 
plaisir comme j’ay fait le temps passé a véoir le monde et les diverses choses qui 
y sont, et aussi pour ce que plusieurs en veullent savoir sans y aler.'”’ 


The 16th century saw the birth of modern travel. An emerging, wealthy 
bourgeoisie, culturally well prepared, was ready to get out of its own insularity 
to search abroad for its collective roots. Renaissance Italy, with her classical ruins 
and contemporary artwork, was the ultimate goal of these learned foreigners. 
Social and political unrest, in France the wars of religion, in England the civil war 
and restoration, and, in general, a renewed interest for finishing abroad the 
education of future leaders made a European journey a must for every young man 
of good family. But this was not a leisured journey. Getting there was definitely 
not half the fun, as we say today, for the support of roads, bridges, and inns was 
extremely inadequate (see John Florio’s proverb in n. 57, above). If in Francesco 
Vettori’s journal we catch a glimpse of the ludic element of a journey abroad, his 
open attitude is practically a hapax in the history of 15th-century Italian travel 
literature. The piacere has become a part of the pedagogical process of meeting 
people and seeing things: 


Intra li onesti piaceri che possino pigliare li uomini, quello dello andare vedendo 
il mondo credo sia il maggiore; né pud essere perfettamente prudente chi non ha 
conosciuto molti uomini e veduto molte citta.'” 


Whatever small pleasure Renaissance travel can offer is usually obliterated by 
financial worries: “Quello che ha a pensare donde abbia a trarre e’ denari o che 
li ha con dificulta o che bisogna pensi pel cammino di guadagnare, non puo pigliare 
piacere de’ viaggi.” Vettori’s is the quintessential aristocratic trip.'” Feeling 
that the aristocracy of creativity had earned him the privilege of upper crust 


126. Charles de Marguetel de Saint-Denis, seigneur de Saint-Evremont, Sir Politick Would- 
Be (published posthumously in 1705), éd. Robert Finch et Eugéne Jollat (Paris-Geneva: 
Droz, 1978), p. 57. 


127. Le Livre de la description des pays (Paris: Leroux, 1908), p. 29. 


128. “Viaggio in Alamagna” in Scritti storici e politici, a cura di E. Niccolini (Bari: 
Laterza, 1972), pp. 122-123. Vettori, obviously, has in mind the Homer’s and Horace’s 
famous texts about Ulysses. 


129. Montaigne, “accoustumé d’y estre avec equippage non necessaire seulement, mais 
encores honneste,” could not agree more with Vettori: “Celui qui a la garde de ma bourse 
en voyage, il l’a pure et sans contre-role” (Essais, Il, 9). 


40 LUIGI MONGA 


traveling, Benvenuto Cellini tried to coax Cardinal Alessandro Farnese to provide 
him with similar travel arrangements: 


Io dissi che |’arte mia non si facea a poste e che, se io vi [in Francia] avevo da 
*ndare, volevo andarvi a piacevol giornate e menar meco Ascanio e Pagolo, mia 
lavoranti, i quali avevo levati di Roma; e di pit volevo un servitore con esso noi 
a cavallo, per mio servizio, e tanti danari che bastassino a condurmivi. Questo 
vecchio infermo [Alberto Bendedio] con superbissime parole mi rispose che in 
quel modo che io dicevo, e non altrimenti, andavano i figliuoli del Duca. A lui 
subito risposi che 1 figliuoli de l’arte mia andavano in quel modo che io aveva 
detto (m1, 7).'” 


How ironic (and rare) that a private individual with modest means, roaming Europe 
on foot, should underscore the pleasure of traveling. Thomas Coryate, a scholar 
with no artistic skill to peddle, remains a rare occurrance in the lore of 17th-century 
travel: 


Of all the pleasures in the world travell is (in my opinion) the sweetest and most 
delightfull. For what can be more pleasant then to see passing variety of beautifull 
cities, kings and princes courts, gorgeous palaces, impregnable castles and 
fortresses, towers piercing in a manner up to the clouds, fertill territories replen- 
ished with a very cornucopia of all manner of commodities ..., flourishing 
universities ... furnished with store of learned men of all faculties, by whose 
conversation a learned traveller may much informe and augment his knowledge. 
(“Epistle to the Reader”)'?! 


Medieval and Renaissance travel, however, was still painful and dangerous.'” 


130. Cf. my essay “Odeporico celliniano: il viaggiare nella Vita,” Annali d’italianistica, 
IV [1986], pp. 73-79. A somewhat similar situation happened at the end of May 1665, when 
Louis XIV asked the aldermen of the city of Lyons to take care of the accommodations of 
Bernini: “c’était un honneur—wrote Paul Fréart de Chantelou—que la ville de Lyon ne faisait 
qu’aux princes de sang” (Journal de voyage du Cavalier Bernin en France. Aix-en-Provence: 
Pandora, 1981, p. 16). 


131. Justus Lipsius had mentioned, parenthetically, that traveling was a pleasant activity 
in a letter to his pupil, Philippe Lanoye, about to leave for Italy (“ ... quid peregrinatione 
istac queras, duo, nisi fallor, utilitatem et voluptatem,” Epist. 1, 22: 3 April 1578). This 
letter became soon famous in the Renaissance: Sir J. Stradling translated it for his pupil, 
the earl of Bedford, and published it as A Direction for Travailers (London: Burbie, 1592). 
The dulcedo is the element which marks the separation of the intellectual pursuit and travels 
by soldiers, missionaries, diplomats, or pilgrims. The topos of the journey to Italy—and 
especially to Rome—is at the very core of humanism, a voyage to the ancestral sources of 
all human beings (“Roma una omnibus patria”), as Petrarch had made it very plain in one 
of his last letters, to a French “barbarus” (“Contra eum qui maledixit Italie” in Opere latine. 
Turin: UTET, 1975, 1, 1242). 


132. See Mario Scaduto’s “La strada e i primi gesuiti” (Archivum historicum Societatis 
Tesu, XL[1971], 323-390) for a series of unpublished accounts of Jesuits captured by Turkish 
pirates while crossing the Adriatic Sea from Ancona to Venice in the middle of the 16th 


Travel and Travel Writing 41 


The narrative rhythm of the travelog is generally organised around the ritual of 
departure and the pleasure of arriving at destination.'*? Very little we know about 
the events related to the trip itself, for the journey is a potential Via Crucis even 
for rich people. As late as the middle of the 19th century, Gustave Flaubert wrote 
to a friend that travel, if not taken seriously, could be “une des choses les plus 
améres ... de la vie.”'* By then, wealthy travelers roamed the roads of the 
Continent in well-upholstered comfort. It was slow traveling, indeed, and it took 
as long as it had taken in the days of the Roman Empire; as Mary Boyle recalled, 
travelers “proceeded leisurely, but comfortably ... pausing in the middle of the day 
to bait [their] horses and feed [them]selves, and sleeping at little wayside inns. ”!*° 
At about the same time, nonetheless, mass travel started shaping the world of 
modern tourism: 


Alas, ... everybody goes everywhere—or nearly everywhere—buying their air 
tickets with their credit cards and being met by airport buses, secure in the 
knowledge that their hotel reservations have been confirmed, that the rent-a-car 
firm is expecting them, and that it will be perfectly safe to drink the Coca Cola. 
The man who started the rot, I fear, was the disagreable old abstainer Thomas 
Cook, who, already by the middle of the [19th] century, had developed the idea 
of insulating his clients as far as possible from the uncouth conditions all too fre- 
quently prevailing in foreign parts by swathing them in a protective cocoon of 
block bookings, meal vouchers and—most dangerous of all—temperance. He began 
indeed by offering them even more: on the very first excursion that he ever 
organised, which took place on Monday, 5 July 1841, the 570 people intrepid 
enough to venture—at the cost of one shilling—the ten miles from Leicester to 
Loughborough and back enjoyed the service of a full brass band, to say nothing 
of tea and buns at Mr. Paget’s Park. The age of the tourist had arrived.'*° 


Meanwhile, in Italy the railway began to transport hordes of Sunday travelers. 
From Florence to the seashore these forerunners of modern tourism brought a 
Mediterranean sense of havoc to the usually quiet cafés of downtown Leghorn. 


century. 


133. Orazio Busino, the faithful chaplain/secretary of Pietro Contarini, a 17th-century 
Venetian ambassador to many European courts, wrote a precise diary of many his master’s 
journeys. The journey itself often fades beneath a banal scheme of activities: the time of 
awakening and departure, the arrival, the food, the distance. It is not until his daily arrival 
in that microcosm of the inn that Busino usually opens up and his descriptions blossom. 


134. Letter of May 1, 1845 in Correspondance (Paris: Gallimard, 1981), I, 226. 


135. Mary Louisa Boyle, Mary Boyle: Her Book, ed. Sir Courtenay Boyle (London: J. 
Murray, 1901, p. 104). See also John Pemple, Mediterranean Passion: Victorians and 
Edwardians in the South (Oxford: Clarendon, 1987). 


136. John Julius Norwich, A Taste for Travel: An Anthology (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 
1987), p. 1. 


42 LUIGI MONGA 


Unlike his British counterpart, marching in orderly ranks towards his goal of “tea 
and buns,” the Italian displays the same uninhibited loudness (si precipita ... urla 
eé schiamazza) that will become his trademark through the 20th century. Carlo 
Collodi’s biting vignette is perhaps the first description of Italian mass tourism: 


L’arrivo di uno di questi treni diretti [da Firenze] alla Stazione di Livorno, e il 
primo ingresso dei passeggieri nella citta sono sempre uno spettacolo curioso e 
meritevole di osservazione. Il Fiorentino che oramai in due ore di corsa ha 
digerito la bibita che aveva sorbito avanti la partenza, per mera precauzione, si 
precipita affamato nei caffé, e urla e schiamazza e chiede pane, con tanta 
insistenza e con voci cosi strazianti, che i poveri garzoni di bottega, non assuefatti 
a tanto lusso di ginnastica, corrono di qua, corrono di 14, si urtano fra loro, e 
finiscono col fare la testa grossa e col non capire nulla. Allora si rinnovano le 
scene della torre di Babele, allorquando i muratori domandavano calcina e i 
manovali portavano mattoni. Uno che ha ordinato il caffé e latte vede posarsi 
dinanzi un’acqua di ribes, quegli che ha chiesto la cioccolata é costretto a 
prendere, per quivoco, una limonata, a chi vuole il semel tocca il caffé, e a chi 
grida pane gli si porta una pasta. 

Finalmente le bramose canne (direbbe il Ghibellino) si saziano, l’anarchia e 
il tumulto cominciano a sedarsi e i caffé di Livorno ripigliano gradatamente la 
loro calma abituale.'%’ 


A new Weltanschauung has begun. Speed begets mass travel: the “570 people 
intrepid enough to venture” to Mrs. Piaget’s Park beg for comfort and services. 
A new perception of the environment is closely related the new means of transporta- 
tion: “ce n’est pas la méme Italie que l’on voit en automobile ou en train,” wrote 
Butor. 

In the age of mass tourism, however, travel is a more banal experience, 
performed by hordes of brightly-dressed people who no longer explore. They 
rapidly “do” countries and cities. Their journey, well planned by travel agents, 
is often guided by professional tour operators, who suggest where and how the 
tourist can catch a glimpse of a three-star monument (“cela vaut le voyage, ou le 
détour,” proclaims the Michelin Guide) and offer cozy four-star hotels where they 
will spend the night in familiar, standardized surroundings. Meanwhile, photo- 
graphs, video recordings, and postcards, the tangible proofs of their trip, have 
replaced, alas, sketchbooks, diaries, and letters. The tourist does not write, for 
the frantic rhythm of modern traveling allows no time for this activity. In fact, 
in the Romance-language idiom, vacationing means not merely taking a rest, but 
“going [away]” (andare in vacanza, aller en vacances, irse de vacaciones), as if 
one could not conceive a vacation without a spatial change. The contemporary 
Italian vacationer has brought this concept to a new level: after glancing at the 


137. Carlo Collodi, Un romanzo in vapore: da Firenze a Livorno. Guida storico-umoristica 
[1856], ed. D. Marcheschi (Lucca: Maria Pacini Fazzi, 1987), pp. 180-181. 


Travel and Travel Writing 43 


traditional sites made famous by Grand-Tourists of yesteryear, the “new tourist” 
can only find some satisfaction in far away, undiscovered locations that become 
immediately the current fad.'* 

But mass transportation implies crowding, a deterioration of the quality of the 
journey; even the Ambassador-Class traveler has to endure, with brothers and 
sisters of Economy-Class, the same strikes and delays that plague modern travel. 
One regrets the vanishing of the Orient Express—with its refined cuisine, attentive 
personnel, mahogany and leather cuddling—which still remains, perhaps, if not 
the fastest, at least the most comfortable manner of modern transportation. 


9. TRAVEL, HISTORY, AND WRITING: CREATION, RE/CREATION, AND RECRE- 
ATION 


Travel and writing’ have been connected since the early days of human history. 
Back in his native village of Uruk after numerous exploits, waiting for the final 
trip that would bring him back to the dead, Gilgamesh recounts his lifelong quest: 
“He had left for a long voyage; when he came back, tired and broken by fatigue, 
he rested, and engraved his entire story on a stone” (tab. I). 

Travel is hardship, and as such it is a reason of pride for the returning 
wayfarer who wants to share his cherished experience with others, for the ultimate 
goal of the traveler is to recount what he has seen. Writing is also an act of 
creation (or re-creation), for the writer (or the poet) is essentially a moun7yH¢, a 
faber (and a reflection of the “Massimo Fattor”). As Umberto Eco’s lonely 
castaway in his diary “ricrea la sua Signora—and, we may add, ‘la sua vita’—per 
non perderla,”'’ travel writers recast the vicissitudes of their life in order to give 
them a new life. 

Written by “insiders” (people who inter-sunt), history and travel journals find 
their justification in the traditional definition of sapientia, which stems from 
memoria, a useful message to be remembered and treasured for the future’*’: 


138. In his article “Italiani dappertutto!” (L’Espresso, November 26, 1995, p. 55) Enrico 
Arosio decries with humor the throngs of his fellow Italians who, “anziché far la spesa 
all’Esselunga,” spend their Saturday in far away places “per trovare se stess[i],” thanks 
to the growth of specialized travel agencies and charter flights. 


139. We are not examining here the metaphorical relationship between travel and writing: 
“El viajero y el escritor tienen destinos paralelos,” according to Jaime FerrAn in his essay 
“Viaje y literatura” (pp. 65-70). 


140. Umberto Eco, L’isola del giorno prima (Milan: Bompiani, 1994), p. 10. And, as the 
reader finds out at the end of the novel, “ormai tutto quello che accadeva a Lilia dipendeva 
dalla sua [i.e., Eco’s main character’s] volonta di narratore” (p. 462). 


141. Kriya é¢ aiei, “a treasure forever” (Thucydides, Hist. 1, 22) “so that things 
accomplished by men may not be blotted out by time” (Herodotus, I, 1). The concept of 
“historia vita memorize et magistra vite” (Cicero, De orat. 11, 36) is a commonplace of 


44 LUIGI MONGA 


“Recte atque vere finxisse veteres Sapientia partem esse Usum et matrem Memo- 
riam esse”, wrote Stephanus Vinandus Pighius,'** who also quotes a text from 
the comedy Sella by Lucius Afranius: 


Usus me genuit, mater me peperit Memoria 
Sophiam me vocant Graij, vos Sapientiam (p. 135).'% 


And Pierre Bergeron, always looking to put in his Voiages whatever was “digne 
d’estre escript,” introduces a similar discussion in the preface to his Voyage 
d’Italie: 


L’imperfection de la nature de l’homme est telle que la plus part des choses 
s’escouleroient bien tost de nostre memoire, si nous n’en arrestions le cours par 
le moien de I’histoire et de l’escriture, de sorte que pour conserver la souvenance 
des choses veues et apprises en lisant et voiageant, et pour en tirer plaisir et proffit 
a l’advenir il est necessaire de les mettre par escrit, afin de se rendre toujours 
presentes les choses que d’elles mesmes seroient sujectes 4 se perdre.'™ 


Writing naturally begs for reading. The reader of hodoeporics is a vital 
element of an important cycle; his goal is either to follow, eventually, in the 
writer’s steps or to be content to enjoy, vicariously, the traveler’s experience from 
the vantage point of his armchair.'** This last goal—reading to escape—is typical 


western thought. Winston Churchill repeats it: “It is my earnest hope that pondering upon 
the past may give guidance in days to come, enabling a new generation to repair some of 
the errors of former years and thus govern, in accordance with the needs and glory of man, 
the awful unfolding scene of the future” (Preface to his The Second World War). 


142. In the introduction to his travel journal, Hercules prodicius (Anvers: Plantin, 1587, 
p. 134): “usage,” i.e., experience, is the foundation of sapientia apodemica. 


143. See also a text by Sallust: “Ceterum, ex aliis negotiis, que ingenio exercentur, in 
primis magno usui est memoria rerum gestarum” (/ugurt., IV). 


144. Pierre Bergeron, “Voiage d’Italie et d’Espaigne és annees 1611 et 1612” [Paris, Bibl. 
Nat. MS Fr. 19013 R.34288], introduction. (My edition of Bergeron’s text will soon appear 
in the series “Bibliothéque du voyage en Italie,” published by Slatkine in Geneva.) The 
emphasis on memory in Bergeron’s travel narrative is set by the epigraph of the “Voiage,” 
Vergil’s quote: “et hac olim meminisse iuvabit” (4ineid, 1, 203). Claiming only private 
motivations for his writing, the traveler may beg forgiveness for his daring: “Sebene che 
il dar corso de’ siti et costumi esterni richiederebbe maggior sapere et maturita della mia, 
con tutto cid non pretendendo io con il presente itinerario o relatione del viaggio di Spagna 
informare altri, ma servirmene per mia particolar memoria delle cose vedute, perd non stimo 
arroganza l’havermi posto a tale impresa” (an anonymous secretary on the trip to Spain taken 
by Francesco Priuli in 1529; Biblioteca Marciana, Ms. It. vil, 631b [7477], f° 1r). 


145. Joseph Catin’s description of the area around Naples in 1568 is written “afin que ceulx 
qui seroient desireux de faire ce voiage, en restant advertis, le puissent en bon ordre veoir, 
les aultres sans prendre peine de s’acheminer si loing, en donnant quelques relasches a leurs 
afaires, soulagent leurs espritz par la lecture de ce petit discours” (Voyage aux Champs 
Phlégréens (1568), éd. L. Monga. Geneva: Slatkine, forthcoming). In a four-line poem 


Travel and Travel Writing 45 


of readers who are thrilled, as J. Rondaut wrote, by “la passion des voyages,” not 
by “l’accident du voyage,” the factual journey.'*° Literature, writing and read- 
ing, thus becomes “un moyen de locomotion internationale,” to use P. Morand’s 
expression. '“’ 

Some readers will even push their vicarious experience to its limit, that is, to 
write about travel without even leaving their desk, triggering the controversy 
between geographers and travelers, mentioned in Antoine de Saint-Exupéry’s Le 
Petit Prince: 


Ce n’est pas le géographe qui va faire le compte des villes, des fleuves, des 
montagnes, des mers, des océans et des déserts. Le géographe est trop important 
pour flaner. Il ne quitte pas son bureau. 


A geographer who refuses to travel, as outrageous as it may be, and who is proud 
of his self-imposed limitations, epitomizes the tension between travelers and 
writers, '** a condition akin to that of the historian who has not witnessed the facts 
he relates. It is in the Renaissance that the dichotomy visa/acta vs. audita/tradita 
finds its liveliest debate. André Thevet epitomized the struggle between theory 
and practice. A real-life mariner and a geographer to boot, Thevet learned all he 
wrote in his Cosmographie “en la chaise d’un navire, soubz la lecon des vents,” 
not in the scholarly debates “és escoles de Paris.”!*° 


prefacing Jacques de Villamont’s Voyages (Paris: C. de Montr’ceil et J. Richer, 1600), the 
author repeats this commonplace: “Francois, voyez ces peuples estrangers, / Sans changer 
d’air faictes ce long voyage, / De Villamont en la fleur de son aage / A ses despens vous 
tire des dangers.” 


146. J. Rondaut, “A propos de la lecture” in Ce gui nous revient (Paris: Gallimard, 1980), 
pa 21. 


147. Papiers d’identité (Paris: Grasset, 1931), p. 28; quoted by A. Pasquali, Le Tour des 
horizons, p. 57. 


148. Inthe same vein, Cervantes distinguished between cortesanos and caballeros: “Los 
cortesanos, sin salir de sus aposentos ni de los umbrales de la corte, se pasea por todo el 
mundo, mirando un mapa, sin costarle blanca, ni padecer calor ni frio, hambre ni sed, pero 
nosotros, los caballeros andantes verdaderos, al sol, al frio, al aire, a las inclemencias de 
cielo, de noche y de dia, a pie y a caballo, medimos toda la tierra con nuestros mismos pies” 
(Don Quijote, Il, v1). 

Faced with the difficulty of finding the precise coordinates of some newly-found islands 
in the Far East, Fra Mauro, a 15th-century Venetian cartographer, gave up all efforts of 
putting them in his mappamondo. He wrote on his map, in the general area of the sea 
southeast of China: “In questo mar oriental sono molte insule grande e famose, le quali non 
ho posto, per non haver loco”; and repeated the same idea in the area of the “Oceano 
Cataico”: “In questo mar sono molte insule, le quali non met[t]o, per non haver loco” 
(Placido Zurla, Il] mappamondo di Fra Mauro. Venezia, 1806, p. 38). 


149. La Cosmographie universelle (Paris: L’Huillier, 1575), 1, 907. For more on the 
tension between a cosmographer (Thevet) and a philosopher (Belleforest), see Normand 
Doiron’s essay “De l’épreuve de l’espace au lieu du texte: Le récit de voyage comme 


46 LUIGI MONGA 


Some historians write about things they hardly know. Censuring the lack of 
direct personal experience (av7o7& bev), Polybius opened a path that Lucian would 
eventually pursue with particular vehemence in his De historia conscribenda: a 
denunciation of writers who possess a plethora of historical faults, writers geo- 
graphically ignorant, stay-at-home individuals who put into writing “such tittle-tattle 
[they heard] in a barber’s shop” (ch. 24). But it is an unavoidable dichotomy, as 
this is the same Lucian who related tall tales about the horrible dipsad, “a snake 
not particularly big, resembling a viper,” adding: “I myself never saw anyone so 
affected and pray I may never see a human being tormented in this way; but then 
I have never set foot in Lybia, I am glad to say” (Dipsads, 6). For history 
essentially follows witnessing; the 7& \eyéueva (what one has heard) have to be 
discarded for the hard facts (7 yevopueva), and this is, or should be, the domain 
of a traveler: 


Historia est narratio rei geste, per quam ea que in preterito facta sunt digno- 
scuntur. Dicta autem grece historia &16 Tov ioropety, id est a videre vel cogno- 
scere. Apud veteres enim nemo conscribebat historiam, nisi is qui interfuisset, 
et ea que conscribenda essent vidisset. Melius enim oculis que fiunt deprehendi- 
mus, quam qu auditione colligimus. ... Hec disciplina ad grammaticam pertinet, 
quia quidquid dignum memoria est litteris mandatur. 

(Isidore of Seville, Etymologia, I, 41, 1-2) 


Writing, one of the “dons singuliers que les hommes de par dega [the-so called 
‘civilized’] ont regu de Dieu,”'” enhances travel and gives this experience an 
extended life and usefulness. 

A character in Saint-Evremont’s comedy Sir Politick Would-Be provides a 
slightly humorous look into what was already considered a habit of fastidious 
German travelers; conscientiously keeping their travel journals. 


Nous avons aussi un journal ot nous écrivons nos remarques, 4 |’instant méme 
que nous les faisons: rarement nous attendons jusqu’au soir; mais jamais voyageur 
allemand ne s’est couché sans avoir mis sur le papier ce qu’il a va durant la 
journée.'*! 


The choice of what is worth remembering in a journey is a subjective one. Any 
second-guessing is a dangerous exercise in futility; an anonymous 19th-century 


critic denounced Montaigne’s Journal, the quintessential modern travelog, as “un 
manuel des eaux minérales d’Italie, un relevé des pierres que leur vertu a fait 


genre,” in Bernard Beugnot (ed.), Récits et immaginaire. Actes du Colloque de Montréal 
(Paris-Seattle-Tiibingen, 1984), pp. 15-31. 


150. Jean de Léry, Histoire d’un voyage en terre de Brésil, éd. F. Lestringant (Paris: Le 
Livre de poche, 1994), ch. xvI, p. 362. 


151. Saint-Evremont, Sir Politick Would-Be, cit., p. 57. 


Travel and Travel Writing 47 


rendre 4 l’auteur.”'*’ The reasons why a traveler writes about travel are germane 
to the motivations for traveling. In the Renaissance a man often engages in 
traveling for “il desiderio di emergere dalla mediocrita e il bisogno di affermare 
la propria personalita”:'°? a proof of his pride and virti, particularly if he has 
undertaken a painful and long trip,'“ a challenge of glory and fama.'*? Ameri- 
go Vespucci wrote from the islands of Capo Verde to Lorenzo di Pierfrancesco 
de’ Medici on June 4, 1501: 


Io ho perduti molti sonni e ho abreviato la vita mia dieci anni; e tutto tengo per 
bene speso, perché spero venire in fama lungo secolo, se io torno con salute di 
questo viaggio: Idio non me lo reputi in superbia, ché ogni mio travaglio € 
adirizzato al Suo santo servizio.'*° 


Back in Florence in 1606, after his tour around the world, Francesco Carletti 
regrets the loss of his notebooks as much as that of his commercial wares, stolen 
by Dutch pirates. The memory of his adventures has partly vanished: having given 
up a career, first as a businessman then as a writer, he can only hope to entertain 
Ferdinando I de’ Medici with whatever he remembers of his stories from far away 
countries: 


152. As wrote the anonymous editor of a “Journal d’un voyage en Provence et en Italie” 
in Revue rétrospective, ou Bibliotheque historique, ser. 2, t. 7 (1836), 196. 


153. Ilaria Luzzana Caraci (ed.), Scopritori e viaggiatori del Cinquecento e Seicento (Milan- 
Naples: Ricciardi, 1991), p. Ix. 


154. “Si via sit dura, licitum est tibi scribere plura,” wrote Andreas Gartner in his 
collection of proverbs, Proverbialia dicteria (Frankfurt am Main: C. Egenholph, 1578). 
A modern French proverb (“A beau mentir qui vient de loin”) is rooted on the ancient topos 
of the mistrust for the person who comes from afar: “One must expect to hear lies from 
a traveler” (Sa‘di, Gulistan [ca. 1258], I, apol. 32); “Pilgrymes and palmers ... hedden leue 
to lygen” (William Langland, Piers the Plowman [ca. 1362], prologue); “Three sortes of 
men may lye by auctoritie, a Phisition, an Olde man, and a Travayler” (John Florio, First 
Fruites [1578], fo. 75). 


155. To observe the world without sharing its knowledge, for Pascal, is only idle vanity: 
“Curiosité n’est que vanité. Le plus souvent on ne veut savoir que pour en parler; autrement 
on ne voyagerait pas sur la mer pour ne jamais en rien dire et pour le seul plaisir de voir, 
sans espérance d’en jamais communiquer” (Lafuma 77). See Jean Mesnard’s preface to Les 
Récits de voyage (Paris: Nizet, 1986), pp. 9-11). 


156. Il Mondo Nuovo di Amerigo Vespucci: scritti vespucciani e paravespucciani, a cura 
di Mario Pozzi (Alessandria: Edizioni dell’Orso, 1993), p. 76. Antonio Pigafetta ackow- 
ledged in the dedication of his Relatione del primo viaggio intorno al mondo that his journey 
was undertaken with the goal of “far esperienza di me e andare a vedere quelle cose che 
potessero dare alguna satisfazione a me medesmo e potessero parturirmi qualche nome 
apresso la posterita.” Moreover, he has put in his written account (“questo mio libreto”) 
“tute le vigilie, fatiche e peregrinazione mie” (in Nuovo Mondo: Gli Italiani [1492-1565], 
Cit., pp. 325-326). 


48 LUIGI MONGA 


li scritti che di cid avevo messo copiosamente insieme si sono persi, per mia 

disgratia, insieme con tutti li mia beni di fortuna, che I’averli ora, mi sarebbono 

carissimi per potere con essi maggiormente dilettare Vostra Altezza Serenissi- 
157 

ma. 


Carletti’s immediate goal, his patron’s diletto, is only one of the numerous benefits 
that a travel account can offer the specialists in the disciplines involved: anthropolo- 
gists, historians of ideas, art historians, economists, just to name a few. 

The relationship between cosmography and history had already been empha- 
sized in Jean Bodin’s Methodus ad facilem historiarum cognitionem (1566): 


hujus [cosmography’s] enim tanta est cum historia cognatio et affinitas, ut altera 
alterius pars esse videatur. ... Historici geographicis descriptionibus utuntur, et 
historici terrarum regiones semper describunt, ut si ars ulla historico necessaria 
sit, profecto geographia summe necessaria videatur.'® 


Without being elevated to the rank of ancilla historie, as philosophy had been for 
theology, cosmography is an essential part (“summe necessaria”) of the historical 
writing. And even the récit of individual travelers are important components: 


Ces sortes d’ observations faites avec intelligence, et exactement recueillies de pére 
en fils, fournissent les plus grandes lumieres sur le fort et le foible des peuples, 
les changemens en bien ou en mal qui sont arrivés dans le méme pays au but d’une 
génération, par le commerce, par les lois, par la guerre, par la paix, par les 
richesses, par la pauvreté, ou par de nouveaux gouverneurs.'® 


Hippolyte Taine underscored clearly the significance of diaries and accounts 
of foreign visitors for the history of France: 


Des lettres et des journaux de voyageurs étrangers contrdlent et complétent, par 
des peintures indépendantes, les portraits que cette société a tracés d’elle-méme. 
Elle a tout dit sur son propre compte, sauf ce qui lui semblait technique, ennuyeux 
et mesquin, sauf ce qui concernait la province, la bourgeoisie, le paysan, l’ouvrier, 
l’administration et le ménage.'® 


Hodoeporics, as a narrative “4 tendance encyclopédique,” is a laboratory in which 
all human experiences can find their expression: history, geography, all natural 
and human sciences.'*' 


157. Francesco Carletti, Ragionamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo (Milan: Mursia: 
1987), p. 97. 


158. Cuvres philosophiques (Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 1951), 1, 118. 
159. Encyclopédie [1765 ed.], xvi, 477 (s.v. “Voyage”). 


160. Les Originesde la France contemporaine, |: L’Ancien Régime (Paris: Hachette, 1894), 
p. VI. 


161. Claude Reichter, introduction to A. Pasquali’s Le Tour des horizons, p. XVI. 


Travel and Travel Writing 49 


10. TAXONOMY OF HODOEPORICS 


If we agree with Kellogg and Scholes’ that the epic, the chief ancestor of 
modern fiction, has developed into the empirical (i.e., historical and mimetic) and 
fictional (i.e., romantic and didactic) novel, we may be tempted to put travel 
narrative at the very foundation of the modern novel. Yet there is no need to 
review here the complex debate that has divided the critics over the definition and 
origin of the novel. Ralph Freedman points to roots that “reach down to different 
layers of soil” in the modern novel,'* Northrop Frye’s definition of novel as 
a sort of meta-genre has inferred the presence of a main character engaged in a 
“quest involving religion, war, a golden or social utopia, exploration, monetary 
gain, a person, a knowledge of the world or oneself,” in a word, “a marvelous 
journey. ”'™ 

All said, novel still remains a vague term and indicates, alas, almost as a flatus 
vocis, anall-encompassing genre capable of greater extremes than any other artistic 
form of art, so elastic, in fact, as to be almost undefinable. Frye’s “marvelous 
journey,” however, seems the essential component of the epic of Homer and Virgil, 
the Greek and Latin works of Lucian and Apuleius, up to the medieval roman, the 
pastoral tale, and the modern novel. 

Although one may agree that any narrative, to a certain extent, involves 
hodoeporics, as we have postulated above, the enormous, amorphous material that 
constitutes travel narrative begs a definition and classification, albeit temporary 
and blurry. Adrien Pasquali’s explanation as a “parcours géographique, référentiel, 
vérifiable” '® seems quite satisfactory; as far as a taxonomic definition, however, 
the task is much harder, witness the negative conclusion of Percy G. Adams’s 
seminal work on travel literature: 


The récit de voyage is not just a first-person journal. ... It is not just in prose. 
... It is not necessarily a story with a simple, uncontrived plot. ... It is not just 
a set of notes jotted down each day or whenever the traveler has time. ... It is 
not just an objective report. ... [It] is not a branch of history any more than it is 
of geography. ... [It] is, of course, not just an exploration report. ... It is not a 


162. R. Kellogg and R. Scholes, The Nature of Narrative (New York: Oxford University 
Press, 1966). 


163. “The Possibility of a Theory of the Novel,” inP. Demetz, Th. Greene, and L. Nelson, 
Jr. (eds.), The Discipline of Criticism (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1968), pp. 57-79. 
See also Percy G. Adams’s clear analysis in Travel Literature and the Evolution of the Novel 
(Lexington: The University Press of Kentucky, 1983), pp. 1-37. 


164. The Anatomy of Criticism (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1957). 


165. Le Tour des horizons, p. 85. 


50 LUIGI MONGA 


complete record of a journey. ... It is not “subliterature.”'® 


The distinction between récit de voyage and novel appears rather tenuous: it 
is a question “de degré, non de nature,” as A. Pasquali points out.’ As positive 
as it may seem, Louis Marin’s definition of travel narrative remains vague, for 
the common denominator of the various forms of récit de voyage is obviously very 
large: 


un type de récit ot l’histoire bascule dans la géographie, ot la ligne successive 
qui est la trame formelle du récit ne relie point, les uns aux autres, des événe- 
ments, des accidents, des auteurs narratifs, mais des lieux dont le parcours et la 
traversée constituent la narration elle-méme; récit, plus précisément, dont les 
événements sont des lieux qui n’apparaissent dans le discours du narrateur que 
parce qu’ils sont les étapes d’un itinéraire. Sans doute ces étapes peuvent-elles 
étre marquées pas des incidents, des accidents et des rencontres, c’est-a-dire par 
l'autre espéce d’événements qui constituent le matériau du récit historique.'® 


There is, obviously, no set form or genre of hodoeporics, for the travel writer “has 
a thousand forms and formulas from which to choose when writing the account 
of a trip, whether he intends to publish his account or not.”'® To understand 
the difficulty of establishing a “generic” taxonomy of hodoeporics, we could just 
look at some of the oldest examples of travel narrative in Greek literature, the 
Odyssey and the Anabasis: respectively, a poetic narrative of a fictional journey 
and an historical account in prose of Xenophon’s return to Greece after the demise 
of the expedition from Persia. 

We may attempt a classification according to a taxonomic spectrum based on 
subjective/objective elements in a hodoeporic text.'” At one extreme we have 


166. Percy G. Adams, Travel Literature and the Evolution of the Novel, pp. 280-281. 


167. Le Tour de horizons, p. 94; “La double nature—narrative et descriptive—du récit de 
voyage ... révéle surtout l’ambigtiité d’un genre partagé entre les exigences souvent 
contradictoires de la documentation et du récit” (J. Chupeau, “Les Récits de voyage aux 
lisiéres du roman,” Revue d’histoire littéraire de la France, LXXVM, 1977, p. 544). 


168. Louis Marin, quoted by A. Pasquali, Le Tour des horizons, p. 94. Francis Affergan 
offered another attempt to organize the multifarious models of hodoeporics by joining 
linguistics and rhetoric. Postulating a complex four-model system (“récit métonymique, 
synecdochique, métaphorique,” and, finally, a récit of real travel and discovery), he is 
eventually forced to acknowledge that “tout récit de voyage appartient aux quatre genres 
a la fois, a des degrés divers, ou plutot il y participe de fait, puisque le rapport sur le voyage 
effectué ou non est invérifiable complétement” (cf. A. Pasquali’s chapter “Une typologie 
narrative des récits de voyage: urgence ou impossibilité?” in Le Tour des horizons, pp. 139- 
143). 


169. Percy G. Adams, Travel Literature and the Evolution of the Novel, introduction, 


170. Underscoring the difficulty of analyzing these elements, A. Pasquali rightly calls them 
“pseudo-subjectif” and “pseudo-objectif” (Le Tour des horizons, p. 91). 


Travel and Travel Writing | 


the guidebook: an objective description, often trite, but basically accurate and 
thorough, an indispensable tool for the next generation of travelers. Examples of 
this form span from Herodotus’s History, “the tourist’s perfect companion,” !7! 
and Pausanias’s Description of Greece (A.D. ca. 150), the Baedeker of the ancient 
world, to the Mirabilia urbis Rome, from Estienne’s Guide des chemins de France 
(1553) and Richard Rowland’s The Posts of the World (1576) to the Guida del 
Touring Club Italiano and the Guide Michelin. At the other extreme of the 
spectrum in this classification there is an unmanageable number of narratives of 
personal remembrances , often written for the purpose of instructing friends who 
are about to undertake the same journey. This private narrative is often mingled 
with objective descriptions; in fact, the first draft of a travel journal may be 
rewritten—for the purpose of publication—and completed with entire pages taken 
from guidebooks.!” 

Naturally, the traveler’s intellectual preparation remains the essential condition 
that creates an intelligent report or an entertaining narrative, since writing, from 
Gilgamesh on, is the most objective prise de conscience of the event by the person 
who has lived through it. When the traveler writes a récit, the threshhold of 
passivity has been left behind and the reflection ona personal experience is already 
taking place.'” True, the superficial tourist will always observe only the most 
frivolous details of a human geography, be it in writing or through the impassible 
eye of a camera or a camcorder.'” Observations bare and betray the observer’s 
character and prejudices: 


171. Lionel Casson, Travel in the Ancient World (London: Allen & Unwind, 1974), p. 111. 


172. Thomas Hoby, for example, used Leandro Alberti’s Descrittione di tutta Italia, as 
did the 16th-century anonymous author of the Discours viatiques de Paris a Rome et de 
Rome a Naples et Sicile (Geneva: Slatkine, 1983). Sebastiano Locatelli copied abundantly 
from de la Varenne’s Voyage de France and Schott’s Itineraria Italie rerumque romanarum 
(see my introduction to Locatelli’s Viaggio di Francia). 


173. The travel journal is not the only literary product of this human experience: 
epistolography, memoirs, remembrances found in other literary expressions (essays, history, 
treatises, novels, etc.) can all be referred to the travel experience. For instance, the trip 
to Rome has created an abundant material, from the correspondence of Renaissance 
humanists (Petrarch, Guillaume Budé, Christophe de Longueil, Jean Lemaire, and many 
others) to poetic works (in France, we have Du Bellay’s Regrets, De Magny’s Soupirs, 
allusions in Jodelle and Belleau, Grévin’s Gélodacrye, etc.). See Jean Delumeau, Rome au 
xVP siécle (Paris: Hachette, 1975); Eric Macphail, The Voyage to Rome in French Renais- 
sance Literature (Saratoga: ANMA Libri, 1990); Jean-Pierre Lafouge, “Italy in Travel Books 
of the 17th Century,” Cahiers du Dix-Septiéme: An Interdisciplinary Journal, M1, 2 (1989), 
115-130. 


174. Sometimes, according to Ennio Flaiano’s bon mot, a tourist “raccoglie documenti che 
proveranno il suo viaggio, ma sarebbe troppo facile provargli che non si €é mai mosso” (his 
reportage, which appeared in /I Corriere della sera, September 23, 1960, is now in Opere: 
Scritti postumi, ed. M. Corti and A. Longoni. Milan: Bompiani, 1988). 


52 LUIGI MONGA 


Some minds improve by travel, others rather 
Resemble copper wire, or brass, 


Which gets the narrower by going farther!'”° 


Moved by a desire to be objective, the traveler usually starts by taking notes during 
the journey, filling up tablets with the toponyms as he hears them pronounced by 
the locals. Sometimes the traveler just cannot jot them down fast enough, as Orazio 
Busino confessed, while riding on a boat down the Rhine: 


Vedevansi da una parte et l’altra molti bei siti, ripieni di ville, terre et castelli, 
che invero paiono pit frequenti et folti di quel che si veggono case et palazzi per 
la Brenta. ... In somma, torno a repplicare che da ogni parte, a lunga vista et 
propinqua, li monti et le costiere sono cosi tempestate di varie et diverse fabriche 
ch’io et chi si voglia, stando con la penna in mano nel corso della barca veloce- 
mente scrivendo, non potrebbono perfettamente abbozzar i nomi loro.!”° 


This first draft of the journal is then rewritten, once or more often, at the end of 
the journey, sometimes with added details (or elusive toponyms) with the help of 
a guidebook or somebody else’s travel journal, for achieving objectivity is essential 
to travel narrative. At this point the written product can still be considered a true 
travel journal, one to be presented as a guidebook to others who aim at repeating 
the same journey. Such a journal is the documented proof of a journey really 
taken. Eventually, a desire for more objectivity may prevail. If the writer is 
interested in publishing his narrative, he must emphasize everything he has learned 
about people, places, monuments, local history. He may then heed the advice of 
the theoreticians who have created the so-called methodus apodemica, amnemonic- 
based system of organizing the material that enjoyed a tremendous success from 
the end of the 16th century well into the 18th.'’ We are slowly moving towards 
the creation of a guidebook in which the subjective element, the journey actually 
performed, disappears under a rather cumbersome collection of objective details. 


175. Thomas Hood, “Ode to Rae Wilson, Esq.” in The Works of T. H. (London: Moxon 
& Co.: 1862);* Vi,'231. 


176. I shall soon publish the travel journals of the Venetian Ambassador Pietro Contarini 
to Turin, London, Madrid, and Rome, written by his various secretaries (among whom 
Orazio Busino) between 1606 and 1623. 


177. See below my bibliographical essay, “Renaissance Hodoeporics: A Bibliography of 
Theoretical Texts on Methodus apodemica (1500-1700),” pp. 647-664. Cf. also my essays 
“Voyage et récit de voyage a la Renaissance,” Montaigne Studies: Montaigne traducteur, 
Montaigne voyageur, V, 1-2 (1993), 109; and “Itinéraires de Frangais en Italie 4 1’époque 
de Montaigne,” in Montaigne e l’Italia (Geneva: Slatkine, 1991), pp. 437-452. On Renais- 
sance methodological theories see Walter J. Ong, Method and the Decay of Dialogue 
(Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1958); Neal W. Gilbert, Renaissance Concepts of 
Method (New York: Columbia University Press, 1966); Frances A. Yates, The Art of 
Memory (Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1966). 


Travel and Travel Writing 53 


Moving between two points, the traveler describes everything that is there, 
regardless of whether he saw such details or only read about them: above all, he 
seems interested in what he could see, or should have seen, had he had the time 
and leisure to move freely in the region. Louis Coulon’s L’Ulysse francois, ou 
le Voyage de France, de Flandre et de Savoye (Paris: G. Clousier, 1643) and Pierre 
Bergeron’s numerous (and still unpublished) travel manuscripts are the most striking 
examples of this tendency. 

At the same time, the effort to emphasize a personal narrative continues. 
Sometimes the writer’s goal is just to amuse his readers, like the epistolary 
tragicomedia of Erasmus’s journey from Basel to Louvain.' The entertaining 
component is never totally absent, even from official reports, as in Vespucci’s letter 
to Piero Soderini in which the navigator summarizes his discoveries. Admittedly 
“presuntuoso” and “perotioso” in addressing a dignitary, Vespucci acknowledges, 
however, that “la verita del [suo] scrivere” offers his reader “cose che non si 
trovano scritte né per li antichi né per moderni scrittori”: Soderini should therefore 
bear the burden “di consumare un poco di tempo nelle cose ridicule e dilettevoli 
... per discanso di tante occupazioni.”'” In other cases, realizing that his récit 
may enjoy an unexpected success among friends and patrons who have perused 
it, the traveler will rewrite it, selecting amusing details to entertain his audience, 
like a storyteller who keeps adding on to and embroidering over the basic structure 
of a tale: 


Doppo d’aver terminata la non poca fatica di trascrivere i tre libri del presente 
viaggio, quando credevo di poter consolare il desiderio del mio buon fratello che 
il [my journal] voleva per divertire se stesso et altri, solitiad onorare il suo casino 
di campagna, ... non é stato possibile che alle replicate sue lettere di premurose 
istanze sappia rissolvermi ad inviarglielo.'® 


The narrative now emphasizes curious events and favors details that aim at 
entertaining. The case of Sebastiano Locatelli’s Viaggio di Francia is typical of 
this category: during thirty years, Locatelli rewrote his original narrative at least 
four times, adding new episodes (and leaving the reader more and more uncertain 


178. The tragicomic account of Erasmus’s journey (letter n° 867 of October 1518 to Beatus 
Rhenanus), composed while recovering from an illness, “was left open in the hands of the 
messenger, to be shown to those whom he would pass on the way to Basel” (Opus epistola- 
rum, ed. P. S. Allen. Oxford: Clarendon, 1906, m1, 393). A copy was made to be sent to 
England, and many humorous details found their way in other letters Erasmus sent to other 
friends. 


179. Letter of September 4, 1504 from Lisbon, in Nuovo Mondo: Gli Italiani (1492-1565), 
pp. 234-235. 


180. Sebastiano Locatelli, Viaggio di Francia, p. 45. 


54 LUIGI MONGA 


as to the veracity of many of the facts reported).'*! 

At this point, however, we lose the travel narrative fora fictional development. 
But fiction is rooted in hodoeporics, for every travel writer, consciously or not, 
performs a mise en intrigue to underscore and reorganize elements that are not 
always essential to the factual journey. The result is a growing ambivalence 
between facts and fiction, a result which blurs the distinction between travel and 
fictional narrative, for the narrator/witness slowly has evolved into a character/actor 
whose goal is to become the center of interest. 

The Romantic writer could even make a parody of the process of inquiry that 
precedes the act of writing. Subverting the rules, in fact mocking the descriptive 
technique of traditional travel books, Heinrich Heine refuses to spend his time in 
Brescia just visiting the city. We find him, instead, feasting in a restaurant: 


I cannot say much about Brescia, for I took advantage of my time to have a decent 
meal. ... But, before I got back into the coach, I was conscientious enough to ask 
my waiter for information about the city: so I found out, among other things, that 
Brescia has forty thousand people, a city hall, twenty-one coffee houses, twenty 
Catholic churches, an insane asylum, a synagogue, a zoo, a jail, a hospital and 
a theater equally good, and gallows for thiefs who steal less than one hundred 
thousand tallers.'* 


Heine has made a definite choice between the guided tour of Brescia and the 
comfort and aromas of the table d’héte. He has led his reader, ina full cycle, and 
tongue-in-cheek, to a récit de voyage fully based on hearsay and centered on the 
writer as actor. Gradually, travel narrative has been losing touch with travel. 
Should we still attempt to situate it in a complex taxonomy within de Certau’s 
encompassing definition of récit? 


Vanderbilt University 


181. See Albert N. Mancini, “Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa nel Viaggio di Fran- 
cia di Sebastiano Locatelli,” below, pp. 231-246. 


182. H. Heine, Reisebilder in Werke und Briefe (Berlin: Aufbau, 1961), m1, 251-252 (my 
translation). 


THEODORE J. CACHEY, JR. 


An Italian Literary History of Travel 


The Italian is arguably the most “well traveled” of the Western European literary 
traditions. Italian literature, since Marco Polo and Dante, has always displayed 
the greatest mobility across time and space in both geographical and literary terms. 
Yet, the “History of Italian Literature” does not include a chapter on the literature 
of travel.!| While the national literary traditions of England, France, and Spain 
have long recognized the powerfully fecund relationship between travel and the 
formal and ideological development of their respective histories, the Italian literary 
canon and consequently its historiography have remained largely impervious to Italy’s 
splendid legacy of travel literature. I want briefly to explore here the implications 
of this paradoxically marginal status of travel in Italian literary history, and to 
suggest a new perspective from which Italy’s unique contributions to the Western 
tradition of travel literature, examined within the broader context of a general history 
of travel, might acquire greater focus. Indeed, the ostensibly peripheral issue of 
Italian travel engages fundamental questions about the nature and character of Italian 
literature in toto. 

If, as Eric J. Leed has argued, travel assumes as its premise “the territorializa- 
tion of a human group and the localization of place,”” then it comes as no surprise 
that the Italian literary canon has lacked the category of travel literature. For the 
Italian tradition, both at its origins in the Due-Trecento, and at the time of its 
consolidation during the high Renaissance, did not emerge from any one center 
but rather represented the creation, by a dispersed intellectual class, of a literary 
and linguistic ideal which was sought, pursued, and was present potentially inevery 
geographical Italian center or locale, but original to none of them. Dante describes 
itas “the panther we are stalking” in the De vulgari eloquentia (1, xvi), “that animal 


1. “Nelle storie della letteratura [italiana] manca quindi un capitolo sui viaggi, e questo 
benché sia quella dei viaggi da ogni punto di vista una letteratura—quanto si vuole 
minore—composta di generi e sottogeneri, con piena intenzione testuale. ... Ci si pud chiedere 
dunque per qual motivo l’immensa potenzialita di dati ed idee nuove contenute nella letteratura 
di viaggio rimanesse senz’eco nella nostra letteratura, nella formazione del canone letterario, 
nel modellamento dei grandi temi ideologici” (G. R. Cardona, “I viaggi e le scoperte,” 
Letteratura italiana: Le questioni, ed. A. Asor Rosa. Torino: Einaudi, 1986, pp. 687-716). 


2. Eric J. Leed, The Mind of the Traveler: From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism (New 
York: Basic Books, 1991), p. 16. 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


56 THEODORE J. CACHEY JR. 

who scatters its fragrance everywhere and shows itself nowhere.” Accordingly, 
Italian literature has from its founding “exiles,” Dante and Petrarch, established 
itself as a tradition seeking to overcome its lack of an original place, either to depart 
from, or to which return. 

Thus the Italian literary canon has no special category for travel simply because 
the entire tradition comprises a literature of travel, and more precisely a literature 
of exile/pilgrimage, into which the attachments of its authors to regional place have 
been sublimated, by means of what Carlo Dionisotti has termed “an industrious 
and delicate linguistic transposition.”*’ Accordingly, it has been through a series 
of idealized territories of language and literature that Italian literary identity has 
historically constituted itself, presenting a legacy which has been generally recognized 
to be uncannily disembodied and deterritorialized. The profound cultural and 
linguistic diversity that characterized the peninsula gave rise to a highly unified 
and refined, albeit narrowly conceived, Italian linguistic and literary cultural identity, 
devised to overcome not only the diversity from which it emerged and the violence 
of historical events, but also an original lack of geographical center, of territorial 
definition and integrity. 

All travel not directed toward Italy in this ideal linguistic and literary sense 
has represented a betrayal of the fundamental inspiration and trajectory of the Italian 
canon. Geographical travel itself goes against the very ideality, the placelessness 
at the heart of Italian literary identity. Indeed, the typical linguistic heterogeneity 
and regional cultural perspective of travel away from Italy points to the scandal 
that for most of its history Italy has existed as “no place” to leave from or return 
to. Meanwhile, Italian national identity jealously maintained itself as an essentially 
linguistic ideal and literary trope rather than a national political reality. Italian 
cultural anxiety about a lack of geographical center, about the territorial absence 
which is at the heart of its cultural construction, has led to the exclusion of travel 
literature from Italian literature’s austere classicizing precincts. 

The apparent lack of communication between the Italian canon and travel thus 
masks a deeper interrelationship. There exists a proportional and, in some cases, 
inverse correlation between Italian literature conceived as literary travel and the 
canon’s resistance to travel literature at any given moment along its chronological 
continuum. The importance of Italy’s “excluded” legacy of travel literature for 
a general history of Western travel derives meanwhile from the estranged 
anthropological situation of the Italian subject sketched above. Estrangement from 
an idealized literary and linguistic place called “Italy” uniquely prepares the Italian 
subject to become through mobility a citizen of the world, as Dante has it, to “have 
the world as my fatherland just as the fish the sea” (De vulgari eloquentia, 1, XM). 


3. Carlo Dionisotti, Geografia e storia della letteratura italiana (Turin: Einaudi, 1967), 
p. 44. 


An Italian Literary History of Travel 57 


It is this original heterogeneity of provincial identities and local attachments to place 
that renders Italian travel writing so compellingly paradigmatic and eminently 
exportable. For “Italians” have understood well both the pain and the pleasures 
of travel, having been strangers in their own land. The cosmopolitan character 
and easy translatability of Italian travel literature represent the facing page of the 
Italian canon’s need to sublimate its lack of center, of place, into an Italian literary 
identity. Italian travel is thus central to both the history of travel and of Italian 
literature, for since Marco Polo and Dante, it has provided a unique perspective 
on the relationship between geographical and literary mobility in history. 


* OK 


Most discussion by literary historians takes Italian travel writing as a marginal 
literature or “historical” genre. Most recently the multi-volume Einaudi Letteratura 
italiana included in its volume dedicated to “Le questioni” a brief chapter that treated 
this literature as essentially “other” with respect to the high or “aulic” Italian literary 
tradition.* 

Another way of approaching the problem however would be to speak of “minor” 
literature rather than the marginal. It ought to be possible, that is, to reconceive 
of Italian literature in terms of “minor” literature as that concept has been elaborated 
by Deleuze and Guattari in a well-known essay.° The theoretical issues involved 
will require further clarification in another context. For the moment, let us say 
that their project in terms of Italian literary history will entail taking travel not as 
a marginal genre, nor simply as one literary theme among others, but rather in some 
way or other as constitutive of Italian literary discourse itself. 

The notion of the Italian as a “minor” literature is not so heretical as it might 
seem at first glance to those imbued with admiration if not reverence for the 
monumental edifice of “Italian literature.” This monumentality itself isa distortion 
of retrospect, a view of literary history filtered through the results of processes 
of canonization enacted by Italian philological and historiographic institutions that 
were at some deep level engaged in overcoming and compensating for the scandalous 
lack of Italian national unity and political identity underlying Italian literary history 
(for a “modern” example, see Bruno Migliorini’s classic Storia della lingua italiana). 


4. “Eppure la letteratura italiana non inquadra volentieri nel suo canone i viaggi, di cui 
pure é ricca; quasi che i molti dati materiali e concreti di cui essi sono necessariamente 
costruiti inquinino in qualche modo un ideale di disinteressata e disincarnata letterarieta; 
quasi che paesi e costumi ed eventi possano diventare riconosciuta provincia letteraria solo 
quando li marchi il segno dell’invenzione, del fantastico” (Cardona, “I viaggie le scoperte”, 
p. 686) 


5. “The possibility of setting up a minor practice of major language from within allows 
one to define popular literature, marginal literature, and so on” (Gilles Deleuze and Félix 
Guattari, “What is a Minor Literature?” in Kafka: Toward a Minor Literature, transl. by 
D. Polan. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1986, pp. 16-27). 


58 THEODORE J. CACHEY JR. 


A measure of the success of this operation has been the marked tendency to view 
the Italian canon as a boundaried, centered and contained set of enduring monuments 
(to such an extent that itis extremely difficult to imagine, within an Italian context, 
the kind of debate about the canon familiar to those of us working in North 
America). By taking travel as central rather than peripheral to the formation of 
the Italian canon, it ought to be possible to see that creation not as a somehow pre- 
established site, but rather as the skeletal remains of countless journeys, just as 
the stones of Venice, or the architecture of Rome are but crystalizations of past 
arrivals, encounters, associations, and departures. It is from this vantage point 
that Italian literature can be conceived of as “minor,” and its historical force can 
be recognized, for “the glory of this sort of minor literature [is] to be the 
revolutionary force for all literature” (Deleuze/ Guattari, 19). 

Father Dante himself was painfully aware of the “minor” status of Italian 
vernacular literature of his time when considered in relation to both the as yet 
undisputed hegemony of Latin as the language of high culture and French literary 
dominance in the vernacular field. Dante’s Convivio, De vulgari eloquentia, (and 
now it appears, his Fiore®) represent self-conscious polemical attempts to counteract 
the dominance of these “major” traditions and to create an opening for Italian 
national vernacular practice. Petrarch’s vernacular “fragments” on the other hand, 
what the poet termed in the proemial sonnet, his “rime sparse,” or as he calls them 
in a famous letter to Pandolfo Malatesta, his nugellae (poesy), represent by their 
author’s own definition a “minor” poetic practice with respect to his investments 
in Latin. Both Dante and Petrarch operated within what Deleuze and Guattari have 
called “the genial conditions of a minor literature”: their subsequent impact upon 
western literary history represents an eminent illustration of the critics’ assertion 
that “there is nothing major or revolutionary except the minor” (26). 

Meanwhile Italian vernacular poetry continues in the century following 
Petrarch’s death to represent a “minor” literary practice with respect to the Latin 
ofhumanism during what Benedetto Croce famously described as the “secolo senza 
poesia.” Emerging from the decentered and policentric geographical and political 
context of the Italian court system at the end of the 15th century, Italian literature 
becomes undisputably “major” within a European context at roughly the same time 
that it is codified as a “national” linguistic and literary practice (Bembo’s Le prose 
della volgar lingua, 1525), a literary consolidation that was in response to the 
political breakdown of the court system under the pressures of foreign incursions 
by France and Spain. Significantly however, the Italian classics that become models 
for European vernacular literary practice at this time, works like Sannazaro’s 


6. Zygmunt G. Baranski, “Lettura dei sonetti I-XXX,” Letture classensi: Lettura del 
“Fiore”, 22 (1993): 13-35; and see also the forthcoming volume dedicated wholly to he 
attribution question edited by Baranski and Patrick Boyde, The Fiore in Context: France, 
Tuscany, Dante (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press, 1996). 


An Italian Literary History of Travel 59 


Arcadia, Ariosto’s Furioso, and Castiglione’s The Courtier, were all products of 
the “minor,” extremely mobile literary practice of the Italian court. The revolution- 
ary import of this minor literature would only bear fruit abroad. From the end 
of the 16th century to the time of political unification in the mid-nineteenth century, 
the Italian returns to its status as a “minor” literature, and here I am speaking in 
the more or less traditional sense. Metastasio is the only Italian poet from the period 
after Tasso who has anywhere near the kind of European impact that Boccaccio, 
Petrarch, Ariosto, and Tasso had had.’ And both the nature of the art of the 
greatest poet of the musical theatre of his time, and the geographical trajectory of 
his career, which saw him move from Rome to Naples to Vienna where he was 
the celebrated poet of an imperial court, active outside of Italy between 1730 and 
his death in 1782, provide illustrations of travel’s centrality to the fundamentally 
deterritorialized constitution of Italian literature. 

In fact, beyond the relatively external historiographic considerations just 
rehearsed, Italian literature corresponds to the definition of a “minor” literature 
proposed by Deleuze and Guattari to the extent to which it is “affected with a high 
coefficient of deterritorialization” (16). I want to suggest, briefly for now, how 
the “founding” vernacular practices of Dante and Petrarch effect a deterritorialization 
of poetic language in two different ways, establishing two different paradigms for 
a literature faced with the challenge of overcoming its constitutional lack of an 
original place either to depart from or to which return. In both cases, again 
following Deleuze and Guattari who observe that “the second characteristic of minor 
literatures is that everything in them is political,” I want to consider how these 
alternative literary paradigms connect the individual toa political immediacy. And 
finally, I want to consider in the cases of both Dante and Petrarch how their 
divergent practices take on a collective value, for as Deleuze and Guattari have 
argued: “if the writer is in the margins or completely outside his or her fragile 
community, this situation allows the writer all the more possibility to express another 
possible community and to forge the means for another consciousness and another 
sensibility...” (17). 

Dante’s vernacular practice was characterized by ongoing experimentalism 
and radical shifts in rhetorical models, perhaps nowhere better exemplified than 
in his turn from the neo-classical or vernacular humanistic rhetorical model promoted 
in the De vulgari eloquentia to the revolutionary poetic plurilingualism of the 
Commedia. What remained constant however was the informing aspiration to a 
linguistic and literary unity which might in some way overcome the political, cultural 
and linguistic fragmentation of late-medieval Italy. The hope that an imperial court 
might provide a “hinge” that would orient the literary practice of an aristocratic 


7. Carlo Dionisotti, “Regioni e letteratura,” in Storia d’Italia: I documenti, V, ii (Torino: 
Einaudi, 1973), p. 1392. 


60 THEODORE J. CACHEY JR. 


group or school of Italian poets (cf. Dante’s nostalgic evocation of the Sicilian school 
at the court of Frederick II) is what underlies the “tragic” rhetorical model of the 
De vulgari eloquentia. But the effective lack of a geographical and political center 
for the elaboration of an illustrious Italian vernacular is precisely what eventually 
drives the “de-centered,” Florentine exile to adopt a comedic poetics which is 
antithetical to the tragic neo-classical rhetoric outlined in the De vulgari eloquentia. 
Dante’s own political status as an exile, and the effective historical lack of an 
authoritative political (or spiritual) point of reference, leads him to assume in the 
Commedia a prophetic and plurilinguistic spiritual and literary authority. He 
expresses in the poem “another possible community,” if you will, writing for an 
emerging vernacular public which have in common “la lingua del si.” 

It was Longfellow who first recognized that Dante’s “illustrious vernacular” 
theorized in the pages of the De vulgari eloquentia (the language common to all 
Italian cities, but peculiar to none) existed “everywhere in parts, but no where as 
a whole, save in the pages of the classic writer.”* Dante, while writing the De 
vulgari eloquentia (which he never completed) realized that rather than write the 
rhetoric of a poetic school that would never be, he himself had to write the classic 
text that would itself stand in the place for the absent Italian political center. The 
literary breakthrough of the Commedia’s polilingualism, which binds together and 
sustains “the various and discordant discourses of the tribe,”’ is accordingly 
paralleled by and interwoven with Dante’s reterritorialization of “Italia” in the poem. 
I refer to the more than two hundred loci in the poem, more or less evenly 
distributed, in which Dante re-presents the Italian landscape, beginning with the 
first glimpse of Italy in the poem: 


Di quella umile Italia sia salute 
per cui mori la vergine Cammilla, 
Eurialo e Turno e Niso di ferute. (dnf., I, 106-107) 


The allusion contained in the expression “low-lying Italy” to Virgil’s description 
of the shores of Italy as they first appeared to Aeneas and his companions from 
their ships (III, 522-3: “humilemquem videmus Italiam”) foreshadows the way in 
which Dante will attempt to establish Italy as a territory in the poem. Italy is 
glimpsed here at the poem’s outset as a kind of promised land to be restored to 
peace. The mention of the names of heroes who died in the wars fought by Aeneas 
and the Trojans in their conquest, without distinguishing between the victors and 
the vanquished has the effect of rendering sacred the Italian soil, by virtue of the 


8. “Dante’s language” in Dante in America: The First Two Centuries, ed. A. Bartlett Giamatti 
(Binghamton: Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies, 1983), p. 42. 


9. Giuseppe Mazzotta, “Afterword,” Dante’s Inferno: Translations by Twenty Contemporary 
Poets, ed. D. Halpern (Hopewell, N.J.: The Ecco Press, 1993), p. 162. 


An Italian Literary History of Travel 61 


blood of its martyrs from whatever faction. Dante will effect in the poem some 
of the basic techniques by which groups root themselves in landscape, that is, by 
linking myth and history to place, through its peopling with gods and ancestors, 
their deed and battles. Dante’s representation of Italy as holy ground is effected 
through the deterritorialization and reterritorialization of Italian geography in the 
poem. An Italian literary history of travel might well read Dante’s Italy in the poem 
not as an established site (as in Revelli’s L Italia nella Divina Commedia or Alinari’s 
Il paesaggio italico nella Divina Commedia) but as a process of literary deterritoriali- 
zation/reterritorialization designed to create a holy site in ways related to the 
processes by which historical sites of pilgrimage and tourism have been historically 
created.'? Dante’s intense mapping and boundary making, his architecturalization 
of poetic spaces, the peopling of his poem with Italian cities and their inhabitants, 
represents an obsessive compensation for what he experienced as a lack of Italian 
national identification and political integrity, and has the cumulative effect of 
establishing Italy as a contemporary literary cultural territory. From a political 
perspective, what made this possible was the culminating moment of the crisis of 
the Italian communal culture (threatened by France, caught between the collapse 
of imperial and papal authority). The capacities of the Italian Due-Trecento for 
transcendence beyond the narrow confines of its municipal system (and here the 
geographical mobility of Marco Polo’s I milione finds its perfect counterpart in 
Dante’s literary travel narrative) allowed Dante to glimpse the substantial cultural 
unity underlying a surface diversity of cultures on the peninsula, and to sublimate 
it in the form of a national epic, albeit for a nation that would not come into 
existence for another half a millennium. 

But Dante’s paradigm of poetic deterritorialization creates the possibility for 
even broader worldwide reterritorializations in the tension it establishes between 
the accumulation of geographical and topographical detail in all their materiality, 
and spiritual mobility or transcendence, a tension that will be extremely productive 
for subsequent literary history. The spiritual motion of transcendence, that is, the 
negation or overcoming of the limitations of space and time, is rooted by Dante 
in the materialities of local habitation. The very datedness and placedness of his 
text renders it timeless and universal. Dante gives us eternity’s Michelin guide, 
which is essentially a guide-book to Italy. It is in this kind of immersion in local 
place as a means of transcendence of time and space in Dante that will be 
fundamental for subsequent literary deterritorializations from Romantic poetry to 
James Joyce’s Ulysses (Seamus Deane has recently traced Joyce’s poetics in this 
regard to William Hazlit’s “Jacobean poetics,” but Dante might just as well have 
given Joyce the cue for the kind of universalization through the local which Joyce 


10. For example, as described by Dean MacCannel in his pioneering work The Tourist 
(New York: Schocken Books, 1972 and 1989). 


62 THEODORE J. CACHEY JR. 


undertakes in Ulysses). 

In fact it is a profound irony of Italian literary history that Dante’s influence 
upon Italian literature is very marginal, and that as Dionisotti has noted it would 
be difficult to demonstrate not only Dante’s preeminence but even the continuity 
of his reception itself within the framework of Italian literary history.'' The 
revolutionary force of Dante’s poetry is only grasped by the Romantics, and 
arguably, Dante has to be reintroduced into modern Italian literature from abroad 
by Anglo-American modernists like Joyce, Eliot, Pound. To some extent, this is 
the result of the fact that Dante’s travel narrative, like Italian travel literature itself, 
could only renew Italian cultural anxiety about a lack of geographical center and 
territorial unity and integrity within the context of a subsequent Italian tradition 
that was designed to overcome that anxiety. Just as travel away from Italy points 
to the embarassment of the fact that Italy as a place did not exist as a place to depart 
from and return to, so Dante’s national epic remained an unfulfilled promise and 
a sign of that lack. Almost immediately the municipal period of the communes 
gave way to the seignorial partitionings and later to the foreign dominations of Italy 
that would be its legacy for the next five hundred years. The transcendence of 
political and linguistic violence that the poem performs could not become a model 
for the poet of Italy’s future who would be Petrarch, nor for subsequent Italian 
literary history that would be fundamentally Petrarchist. 


* OK OK 


Mention of Joyce brings immediately to mind the alternative example of Beckett 
as a means of illustrating the paradigm of deterritorialization enacted by Petrarch 
in the Canzoniere. Like Beckett, or Kafka for that matter, as characterized by 
Deleuze and Guattari, Petrarch can be said to “oppose a purely intensive usage of 
language to all symbolic or even significant or simply signifying usages of it” (19). 
Like Beckett, Petrarch can be said to have proceeded by “dryness and sobriety, 
a willed poverty, pushing deterritorialization to such an extreme that nothing remains 
but intensities” (19). Landscape itself for example in Petrarch is notoriously stylized 
and devoid of naturalistic description. Moreover, Petrarch’s language creates the 
impression of a complete absence of movement. The extreme deterritorialized status 
of Petrarch’s language renders the rare place names devoid of that kind of materiality 
they possessed in Dante, that would potentially root poetry to place. Politically, 
Petrarch, the son of a white Guelph exiled from Florence together with Dante was 
no exile but an “apolide” or person without a homeland. Educated between Avignon 
and Bologna, Petrarch’s adult life was characterized by extreme mobility (even 
greater than Dante’s) but no political or spiritual attachment to Italian place in the 


11. See Carlo Dionisotti, “Varia fortuna di Dante,” Geografia e storia della letteratura 
italiana. 


An Italian Literary History of Travel 63 


municipal sense. Moreover, the consolidation of territorial state powers on the 
peninsula during Petrarch’s time increasingly absorbed the old maneuvering room 
of the intellectual in exile, and according to one historian of the period “this new 
situation called for acceptance and resignation,”'’ attitude which typify Petrarch’s 
response to both his own dislocated state and his treatment of the theme of exile 
inhis works. Moreover, for this “irrequieto turista” (Contini), the concept “patria” 
has primarily personal resonances. Italy is primarily an affective homeland, the 
land of his fathers, a sentimental homeland that one reaches crossing the frontiers 
from France, as in the famous letter describing the poet’s ascent of Mont Ventoux, 
when having achieved that mountain’s summit, the vision of Italy brings to mind 
the memory of his student days in Bologna and bitter reflections on his moral 
failings. 

Petrarch’s homeland in the deepest sense however is the solitude of otium 
studiorum.'* His true “patria” is the literary tradition of the Latin classics and 
accordingly his politics are those of a great humanist intellectual, who cannot be 
municipal or merely Italian. Petrarch’s solution to the probiem of the lack of Italian 
national identity is to imagine another possible community, that of cosmopolitan 
Latin humanism above the fray of contingent political reality. Petrarch’s humanism 
is Supranational and cosmopolitan, and his vernacular literary practice proceeds 
along the same deterritorialized trajectory. It was this Petrarchan paradigm of 
deterritorialization that will serve the needs of the Italian intelligentsia forced to 
elaborate during the political crisis of the high Renaissance a deterritorialized 
linguistic and literary statute for modern Italian literature. Thus for Petrarch, as 
for the Italian canon generally speaking, the literary experience of distant shores 
through a humanistic pilgrimage to the sanctuaries of classical antiquity involves 
a triumph over time and space accompanied by a substantial lack of interest in 
geographical travel. Literature itself, understood as travel across physical, temporal 
and spiritual frontiers will subsequently represent the Italian tradition’s privileged 
form of mobility, its preferred means of transportation. 

From this perspective, the significance of Italy’s excluded legacy of travel 
literature aquires greater focus. For example, it becomes possible to understand 
what has been termed the oddly muted impact of the New World discoveries in 
Italy and by extension in humanistic Europe generally.'* It becomes possible to 


12. See Randolph Starn, Contrary Commonwealth: The Theme of Exile in Medieval and 
Renaissance Italy (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1982), p. 136. 


13. See Maria Serena Sapegno, “‘Italia’, ‘Italiani’,” in Letteratura italiana: le questioni, 
ed. A. Asor Rosa (Torino: Einaudi, 1986, p. 207), who cites Fam. xt, 6: “Equidem solitudo 
sine literis exilium est, carcer, eculeus; adhibe literas, patria est, libertas, delectatio.” 


14. Aproblematic best stated by J. H. Elliott in his The Old World and the New (Cambridge 
University Press, 1970), especially in the chapter on “The uncertain impact.” 


64 THEODORE J. CACHEY JR. 


understand the Florentine obsession with measuring the site, shape and size of 
Dante’s hell which manifests itself at the same time as the discovery of America, 
not as a curious coincidence but as a form of compensation for Florence’s lack of 
direct participation in real geographical exploration. The linguistic sensibility 
informing Antonio Pigafetta’s remarkable Malay and Philippine vocabularies included 
in his account of Magellan’s circumnavigation will appear inversely proportional 
to Pietro Bembo’s classicizing closure of the Italian linguistic and literary statute 
in Le prose della volgar lingua.'° Verrazzano’s letter to Francis I offers meanwhile 
not only the promise of a new American territory for colonial appropriation but 
at the same time the literary promise of an Arcadian Italian literary territory to the 
French sovereign. And Giambattista Ramusio’s monumental translation of travel 
literature from all of Europe into “Italian” as codified by Bembo will appear as 
yet another form of compensation for Italy’s lack of national political identity and 
territorial integrity, as the ideal form of Italian participation in the conquest and 
colonization of the New World. Taking travel as no mere marginal genre, but as 
constitutive of Italian literature makes possible an Italian literary history of travel 
that will enable a deterritorialization of Italian literary history itself. 


University of Notre Dame 


15. See the introduction to my edition of Pigafetta’s account of the first circumnavigation, 
The First Voyage Around the World (1519-1522) (New York: Marsilio, 1995), especially 
Pp. XXViii-Xxx. 


JAIME FERRAN 





Viaje y literatura 


El viajero y el escritor tienen destinos paralelos. La preparacién para el camino 
es hermana de la de quien se dispone a escribir. Ambos se preparan para una aven- 
tura que les obliga a hurtarse a la cotidianeidad. 


Caminante, no hay camino, 
sino estelas en la mar. 


Dice bien el buen poeta. Sélo estelas en la mar, que contemplamos cuando hemos 
pasado, como el escritor ve crecer su escrito en ésta, en toda pagina cuando ha 
dejado de escribir y se ha ido a sus ocios — como predicaba Azorin. 

Y dice, ain mejor, el mismo Machado: 


caminante, no hay camino, 
se hace camino al andar. 


Y ello vale igualmente para el escritor, que tiene que escribir escribiendo y al cual 
la pagina en blanco ofrece como al caminante, como al navigante, sus caminos 
infinitos, entre los que él tendr4 que escoger uno, el que nos legaré a sus lectores. 

No es extrafio que toda la andadura machadiana se inicie y se resuma en el 
poema inicial de Soledades, que es un poema iniciatico: 


(EL VIAJERO) 


Est4 en la sala familiar, sombria, 

y entre nosotros, el querido hermano 
que en el suefio infantil de un claro dia 
vimos partir hacia un pais lejano. 


Si este poema encierra toda la andadura machadiana, esta estrofa resume todo el 
poema. En ella advertimos como la evocacién del viaje — del viajero — esta 
indeleblemente unida a la memoria. EI viaje incita al recuerdo. 

El primer periplo que conocemos bien, él de Odiseo, nos ofrece la esencia de 
la literatura viajera, especialmente cuando el héroe recuerda una y otra vez — ante 
el rey Alcinoo y los nobles feacios, ante Penélope — su accidentado viaje... Y 
cuando lo evoca el ministril del rey, al final del libro vil, Odiseo empieza a llorar 
como una mujer frente al cad4ver de su esposo, muerto en la batalla. El recuerdo 
de sus aventuras le afecta a él, como nos afectara — eternamente — a los lectores 
de su Odisea. 


Heureux qui, comme Ulysse, a fait un beau voyage, 


i 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


66 JAIME FERRAN 


pero deseemos, con Kavafis, que el camino sea largo, lleno de aventuras, lleno 
de conocimiento. Porque sdlo entonces seremos capaces de recordarlo y de 
evocarlo para los demds. Sdlo entonces podremos traspasar la esencia del viaje 
a expresiOn literaria y el viaje sera completo: el viaje fisico e el espiritual. 

Cuando, en el siglo Xx, Ezra Pound se enfrenta con el periplo de la Humanidad 
— “el cuento de la tribu” — empieza con el viaje por antonomasia para todo poeta 
— seguin él mismo precisa —: el descenso al Hades, traduciendo dei latin renacen- 
tista de Andreas Divus los versos del libro onceno de la Odisea, haciéndolos 
renacer, 0 resucitar, por segunda vez. 

Porque para resucitar hay que haber muerto y haber sido enterrado. Es decir, 
hay que haber olvidado: 


Se canta lo que se pierde, 


ha dicho el poeta, que empezaba su poema (“El viajero”) precisamente después 
de viaje, cuando la familia recibe al ausente y oimos la voz del benjamin, entre 
los hermanos: 


I sing what was lost, 


dice Yeats, igual que Machado, y sdlo entonces, al cantarlo, lo vuelve a recuperar. 

El] descenso al Hades es el viaje primordial — seguin nos confia el mismo 
Pound — y esta al origen de nuestra obsesi6n con el viaje, como la ciudad nace, 
en su dia, como necrépolis, como ciudad para los muertos y s6lo después se toma 
como modelo para los vivientes. 

Pero después de este viaje en el primer cantar, y de la evocacién de la meta- 
morfosis en el segundo, empieza el desfile de los héroes poundianos con el destierro 
de Mio Cid. 

La Chanson de Roland, nuestro cantar, las aventuras de Sigismundo Malatesta 
se erigen en modelos de los viajes €épicos, pero entre ellos tenemos también el viaje 
de Félix, de Ramon lo Foll, “per erms, per poblats e per princeps e per cavallers” , 
recorriendo el Llibre de meravelles que es nuestro mundo. 

Entroncadas con él, con ellos, encontramos nuestras crénicas mediterraneas, 
con las gestas de nuestros almog4vares evocadas por Desclot y por Muntaner, 
nuestro “hombre de Imperio”, como le Ilamara Carles Riba. Porque de Imperio 
se trataba, del primero que tuvimos y que sirvié de modelo al que inmediatamente 
lo extenderia a todo el orbe. 

La aventura mediterranea del Reino de Aragon es la base, no sdlo para las 
cronicas hist6ricas, sino para la flor de la literatura, porque de ellas nace uno de 
los libros fundamentales que cierra el ciclo de los periplos mediterraneos: el Tirant 
lo Blanc. 

Joanot Martorell, buceando en el pasado, inspirandose en el Libro de la Orden 
de Caballerta de Ram6n Llull y el Guy de Warwick, que traduce en los primeros 
XXVII capitulos de la obra, resucita literaria y fant4sticamente el mundo de las 


Viaje y literatura 67 


crénicas catalanas, que continua en la misma lengua, una de las razones, probable- 
mente, de su oscurecimiento durante siglos, como aduce su reciente traductor al 
ingles, el malogrado David H. Rosenthal.! 

La transmutacién del caudillo Roger de Flor, al frente de sus almogavares, 
en el héroe Tirant lo Blanc comporta la transposicién de las aventuras mediterraneas 
a un mundo que tiene el mismo marco, pero en el que la fantasia se empareja con 
un realismo que hace exclamar al cura del Quijote, en su escrutinio, que es el mejor 
libro del mundo. 

Y junto al caballero, el escudero. En el breviario luliano de caballeria, en el 
de Don Juan Manuel... El escudero se transforma en el picaro, nuestro antihéroe 
por antonomasia, el que tiene darnos cuenta de su viaje, porque nadie lo hara por 
él. Viaje, por otra parte, que se constituye en la médula de su propio vivir, porque 
la narraci6n de su vida se estructura en las distintas jornadas de su caminar. Asi 
acompafiaremos a Lazaro, a Guzmdn, como antes habiamos acompafiado a los 
Amadises y a los Palmerines. 

Y de la mano de ambos llegamos al segundo gran viaje de la trubu, él que 
empalma con las conquistas mediterraneas del reino de Aragén y traslada a otro 
mar los afanes del hombre renacentista: nos hallamos ahora ante el Diario de a 
bordo, la cr6nica alucinante del Almirante Letraherido, que refleja en sus paginas 
los suefios y descubrimientos de antafio, empezando por los de Marco Polo, 
viviendo el presente en funcién del pasado y descubriendo Otro Mundo, al que 
llamara, sencillamente, las Indias, con uno de los nombres de la tribu. ... Los 
caminos de los preregrinos europeos “con rituales itinerarios, altos y posadas” se 
habian detenido, durante siglos en Finisterre, pero ahora continuaban allende el 
mar y como habia occurrido en el Camino de Santiago, continuaban viajando “las 
ideas, las noticias, los valores, y se esparcian a todo lo largo de la ruta, y regre- 
saban trocados, incrementados, enriquecidos” .” 

A lo largo de la Edad Media y al comienzo de la Moderna, Espafia continuaba 
siendo la encrucijada imprescindible para que Europa alcanzara su identidad y para 
que aprendiera a sofiar con el infinito. Santiago, en la lejana Galicia, habia sido 
la meta de los peregrinos, las Indias serfan la de los descubridores y conquistadores 
que desbrozaban incansablemente nuevos caminos entre los que “los mds importan- 
tes viales indianos (que podriamos denominar axiales) resultaron ser en gran medida 
una prolongacién terrestre de las grandes rutas maritimas del Imperio” .* 

Una vez mas la geografia determinaba la historia y ambas se ponian al servicio 


1. Joanot Martorell and Marti Joan de Galba, Tirant lo Blanc (New York: Schocken 
Books, 1984), p. 9. 


2. Eugenio d’Ors, Novisimo Glosario (Madrid: Aguilar, 1946), p. 277. 


3. Ramoén Maria Serrera, Trdfico terrestre y red vial en las Indias espanolas (Madrid: 
Ministerio del Interior, Direccién General del Trafico, 1992), p. 14. 


68 JAIME FERRAN 


de la literatura que por aquellos caminos echaria a andar de la mano de los nuevos 
cronistas, como de las del Periquillo Sarniento y sus amigos. “For the wealth that 
the New World gave to Spain, Spain paid the Old in song”, como ha dicho bella- 
mente Ezra Pound.* 

Y en el centro de aquel Siglo de Oro, que la peninsula ya comparte con 
América, el Caballero y el Escudero vuelven a recorrer el camino magico, afiorante 
y fantastico de la vieja Mancha en una de las aventuras trascendentales de la 
Humanidad, la cual combina la afioranza del pasado con la clarividencia del 
sofiador, templada por la visiOn a ras de tierra de su acompajiante complemen- 
tandose y confundiéndose de tal manera que entre ambas nos ofrecen el mejor 
espejo en el que reconocernos para siempre... 

Y a medida que la novela va renunciando a la peripecia exterior, vemos como 
el viaje se erige en eje de meditaciones que lo toman como una alegoria que preside 
las “guias” espirituales, que hasta el nombre toman de sus hermanas, la geografi- 
cas, y que, como ellas, implican siempre “un viaje, un itinerario entre dificultades 
y escollos de diverso género en virtud de una accién que ha de ser llevada a cabo 
y que se presenta como la tnica salida posible, de una situaci6n insostenible, tanto 
mas visible y angustiada a medida que el hombre se va librando — al parecer, al 
menos — de los decretos del Destino, queddndose solo en medio de la selva, esa 
selva selvaggia que es el mundo ante el hombre solo que se despierte” .° 

El viaje se ha convertido en el m4ximo paradigma de nuestra existencia y en 
el medio de este viaje el mundo es sélo “una mala noche en una mala posada”, 
para evocar las palabras de nuestra Patrona de escritores y de viajeros, Teresa de 
Jesus, que por algo la llamaron fémina inquieta y andariega. 

Ahora vendran los geégrafos y botanicos — 0 simplemente viajeros del siglo 
XVI — y la literatura de viajes del siglo XIx, que culminar4 en nuestro siglo, 
cuando nos acompafiara esta manera de ver el mundo, sobre todo cuando éste se 
achica — como antes se habia agrandado con los descubrimientos —, cuando 
desertan nuestras provincias ultramarinas y Espaiia tiene que mirar “adentro”, como 
le recomienda Unamuno, practicdndolo con sus “Andanzas y visiones espafiolas” 
y “Por tierras de Portugal y Espafia”. 

La conciencia del “desastre” — como le Ilamaron los espafioles — amenece 
en el alma de Angel Ganivet, tanto en sus Cartas finlandesas como en sus caminos 
granadinos, preside las cronicas librescas de Azorin, que reviven sus lecturas de 
nuestros clasicos y recorre la obra barojiana, desde su inicial Camino de perfeccion, 
alcazando a los escritores posteriores al 98, como José Ortega y Gasset, y su alter 
ego Rubin de Cendoya, mistico espafiol por Tierras de Castilla, las mismas tierras 
que habia recurrido incansablemente la poesia de Antonio Machado. 


4. The Spirit of Romance, vi (“The Quality of Lope de Vega”), p. 222. 
5. Maria Zambrano, Obras reunidas: estudios literarios (Madrid: Aguilar, 1971), p. 362. 


Viaje y literatura 69 


Mas significativo es el caso de Gabriel Mir6, que no habiendo podido viajar 
personalmente nos muestra los vagabundeos de Sigiienza y su nostalgia viajera, 
que le hace exclamar: 


Sigtienza no pudo viajar; pero el prurito viajero, el ansia de lejania continuaba 
llevandole a las orillas de los muelles. Amaba el silencio de algunos barcos que 
semejaban abandonados; ofa conmovido el gemir de las planchas de los pasadizos; 
miraba el cordaje de los veleros, que en medio del mar sonaria como una lira 
inmensa. Se imagino pasando por el horizonte, bajo las blancas alas de las velas, 
envuelto el las gozosas claridades contempladas desde sus balcones. jOh, hasta 
veia lejos otros barcos y entonces apetecia ir donde no iba!® 


“; Apetecia ir donde no iba!” S6lo encuentro otro ejemplo de invitacién al puro 
viaje — en el que la meta ya no importa — en un miembro de la generacién 
mironiana: en el portugués Fernando Pessoa, 0, mejor dicho, su heterénimo Alvaro 
de Campos: 


AO VOLANTE DO CHEVROLET 


Ao volante do Chevrolet pela estrada de Sintra 

Ao luar e ao sonho, na estrada deserta, 

Sozinho guio, guio quase devagar, e um pouco 

Me parece, ou me forgo um pouco para que me pare¢a, 

Que sigo por outra estrada, por outro sonho, por outro mundo, 

Que sigo sem haver Lisboa deixada ou Sintra a que ir ter, 

Que sigo, e que mais haverd em seguir sefiao nao parar mas seguir?’ 


No podemos olvidar tampoco las letras catalanas, que desde su Renaixenca ya nos 
habia ofrecido las andanzas apasionadas de su m4ximo poeta, Jacint Verdaguer, 
por Tierra Santa o por Andorra, y a semejanza de este ultimo viaje, tenemos que 
mencionar la obra ingente de Josep Pla, que desde el inicial Viatge a Catalunya 
de 1934 — y antes, en sus Coses vistes — nos presenta el caleidoscopio de un 
viajero que tanto puede evocar sus viajes lejanos a Russia, por ejemplo (1925), 
como los que él llama “vuelos gallin4ceos” sobre todo por su pais. Su exégeta 
Albert Manent nos recuerda que, en el Viatge a Catalunya, 


en el prélogo confirma su admiraci6n por tres itinerarios clasicos: el Reisebilder 
de Heine, The Bible in Spain de Borrow, y Mémoirs d’un touriste de Stendhal. 


Tras el esfuerzo titanico de Pla, debemos consignar los libros de viajes de nuestra 
posguerra — dentro de la que Pla sigue escribiendo libros fundamentales, como 
su Cadaqués (1947) — entre los que non pueden faltar los caminos de vuestra 


6. Gabriel Miré6, Obras completas (Madrid: Biblioteca Nueva, 1969), p. 595. 


7. Fernando Pessoa, Antologia de Alvaro de Campos, edicién bilinglie preparada por J. 
A. Llardent (Madrid: Editora Nacional, 1978), pp. 256-257. 


70 JAIME FERRAN 


Arcadia, de nuestra Alcarria recorridos, por Camilo José Cela, que también daria 
buena cuenta de otros itinerarios en la Espafia Noroestal — Del Mino al Bidasoa 
— y Nordestal — Viaje al Prirneo de Lérida — que también recorreria, en catalan, 
Josep Maria Espinas, tras el cual vendrian los Campos de Nijar de Juan Goytisolo 
y los periplos de Salinas, Ferres, Carnicer, que desbrozarian, entre otros, los 
recOnditos caminos hurdanos, abriéndolos a nuestro tiempo. 


Centro de Estudios Hispdnicos — Syracuse University 


ADRIEN PASQUALI 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie 


Dans notre histoire littéraire, récit de voyage et autobiographie pourraient étre 
associés par le fait que tous deux suscitent concurremment méfiance et attrait. Ainsi, 
“heureux qui comme Ulysse a fait un beau voyage” (Du Bellay) peut se retourner 
en “A beau mentir qui vient de loin” (Diderot); parallélement, si pour beaucoup 
“le moi est haissable” , tout aussi nombreux sont ceux qui disent ne connaitre bien 
que ce moi, et ne pouvoir parler que de lui, ou a partir de lui. 

Métaphoriquement, et mettant momentanément entre parenthéses le récit du 
récit de voyage et la graphie de |’autobiographie, le terme voyage peut s’appliquer 
et a la vie (qui est un long voyage) et a la mort (qui est le dernier voyage). 

Si nous réintroduisons le récit, le voyage constitue “l’une des intrigues les plus 
anciennes et les plus universelles” ;' par généralisation de la notion de déplacement 
de personnage, “tout récit est un récit de voyage” ,” qu’il soit factuel ou fictionnel, 
la possibilité de glissements constants entre l’un et l’autre régime narratif étant 
illustrée par l’aisance avec laquelle Pierre Loti peut arranger en “romans exotiques” 
des chroniques de voyage parues précédemment dans des magazines ou des revues 
comme moments ou tableaux autobiographiques. 

Symétriquement, tout voyage est une machine a produire du récit; en régime 
fictionnel, sa fonction de procédé de composition est repérable dans 1’ “enfilage” 
des contes et nouvelles, 41’exemple du Decameron ou des Canterbury Tales: “Dans 
ce cas, plusieurs nouvelles, chacune formant un tout, se succédent et elles sont unies 
par un personnage commun ... trés tot, le voyage est devenu la motivation la plus 
fréquente de l’enfilage.”? A quelques nuances prés, il en va de méme pour le roman 
picaresque. En régime factuel, la nécessité ou la pulsion conduisant a raconter 
un voyage est massivement mise en évidence, que ce soit en réponse a une demande 
extérieure (institutionnelle ou amicale), que ce soit pour restituer au monde par 
le langage ce qui fut prodigué au voyageur en fait d’expérience sensible, comme 
le rappellent, dans des registres trés différents, Michel Butor ou Nicolas Bouvier. 

Si nous réintroduisons la graphie, |’élan et le geste d’écrire, celle-ci est 


1. R. Welleck & A. Warren, La Théorie littéraire (1942) (Paris, Le Seuil, 1971), p. 304. 
2. M. de Certeau, Arts de faire. I. L’Invention du quotidien (Paris, UGE, 1980), p. 206. 


3. V. Chlovski, “La Construction de la nouvelle et du roman”, in Théorie de la littérature, 
T. Todorov (éd.) (Paris, Le Seuil, 1965), p. 193-194. 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


v2 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


largement tenue pour une modalité paradoxale de voyage, depuis Montaigne (“Je 
ne peins par |’étre, je peins le mouvement”) jusqu’éa Roland Barthes au moins 
(“Quand j’écris, je suis ailleurs”). 

Dans les pages qui suivent, je m’appuierai sur une définition opératoire du récit 
de voyage que mon propos tachera de nuancer et de problématiser. En termes 
génériques, le récit de voyage ne constitue pas un genre fixe et codifié (que ce soit 
au niveau macro-textuel ou micro-textuel), mais plut6t un genre mouvant et 
multiforme pouvant accueillir des mémoires, des fragments de journal, des portraits, 
des choses vues, des poémes, et des narrations. 11 met en scéne un sujet (individuel 
ou collectif) dans un espace-temps délimité et construit par le texte selon un ordre 
qui serait tout 4 la fois linéaire et digressif. Le récit de voyage factuel auquel je 
m’attache se rapproche de I’autobiographie si je considére que Auteur/Narrateur/Per- 
sonnage sont identiques mais fonctionnellement et textuellement distincts. De Paul 
de Man a Derrida, les plus récents travaux sur le langage ont insisté sur le caractére 
illusionniste et aveuglant du discours (et notamment du discours sur soi); mais, et 
c’est mon hypothése de travail, le récit de voyage pourrait représenter une 
alternative, une “procuration” (J. Derrida), une “simulation” (L. Marin) et un 
simulacre positifs qui permettraient au discours sur soi de passer de l’aveuglement 
au supplément, un supplément qui comble et supplée A la fois: 


Il (=le supplément) ne s’ajoute que pour remplacer. I] intervient ou s’insinue 4-la- 
place-de; s’il comble, c’est comme on comble un vide. S’il représente et fait image, 
c’est par le défaut antérieur d’une présence. Suppléant et vicaire, le supplément 
est un adjoint, une instance subalterne qui tient-lieu. En tant que substitut, il ne 
s’ajoute pas simplement 4 la positivité d’une présence, il ne produit aucun relief, 
sa place est assignée dans la structure par la marque d’un vide. Quelque chose 
peut, quelque chose ne peut se remplir de soi-méme, ne peut s’accomplir qu’en 
se laissant combler par signe et procuration. Le signe est toujours le supplément 
de la chose elle-méme.* 


Comme si le détour par le monde et l’espace permettait au sujet psychologique et 
textuel de trouver, non une identité mais une consistance, non un héritage mais 
un lieu d’étre et de parole, non une langue apprise mais une langue habitée, non 
un destin rétrospectif mais un nom prospectif: comblant parce que suppléant, il 
permet d’entendre, notamment, la transformation de Henri Beyle en Stendhal, 
milanese certes, mais a la maniére d’un Ecossais ou d’un Prussien.° 


4. J. Derrida, De la grammatologie (Paris, Minuit, 1967), p. 208. 


5. Sil faut en croire I’hypothése de Pierre Augrand qui fait de “Stendhal” l’anagramme 
de Shetland, hommage de Henri Beyle envers I’Ecosse qu’il aimait tant? Voir Revue de 
littérature comparée (Avril-Juin 1956). Pour sa part, Jean Starobinski signale que “Stendhal 
... est le nom d’une ville prussienne.” (“Stendhal pseudonyme”, L’Oeil vivant. Paris, 
Gallimard, 1961, p. 193) 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie 73 


I. SUR LES CONTENUS 


Les plus récents travaux sur l’autobiographie mentionnent rarement les récits de 
voyage 4 titre d’exemples, sauf incidemment, comme avec 1|’Afrique fantéme de 
Michel Leiris (cf. Philippe Lejeune, Lire Leiris, Paris, 1975). Cependant, la critique 
historique des récits de voyage a justement mis en évidence la progressive 
transformation des modalités énonciatives et des contenus d’un genre qui, au tournant 
du xIX* siécle, tend vers une plus forte “autobiographisation” , avec glissement de 
l’“auktorialer Erzahler” vers le “personaler Erzahler”. L’influence de Sterne et 
du “voyage sentimental” ou excentrique est connue, tout comme celle du romantisme 
ambiant qui induit a voir le monde 4a travers un tempérament: “Je ne prétends pas 
dire ce que sont les choses, je raconte la sensation qu’elles me firent ...,” déclare 
Stendhal dans Rome, Naples et Florence (1826) (note du 3 décembre 1816 ); quelques 
années plus tard, et non sans emphase, George Sand écrit 4 son ami Herbert, dans 
la dixiéme des Lettres d’un voyageur (Paris, 1837): 


Ne lis jamais mes lettres avec l’intention d’y apprendre la moindre chose certaine 
sur les objets extérieurs; je vois tout au travers des impressions personnelles. Un 
voyage n’est pour moi qu’un cours de psychologie et de physiologie dont je suis 
le sujet, soumis 4 toutes les épreuves et 4 toutes les expériences qui me tentent, 
condamné 4 subir toute l’adulation et toute la pitié que chacun de nous est forcé 
de se prodiguer alternativement 4 soi-méme, s’il veut obéir naivement 4 la 
disposition du moment, 4 l’enthousiasme ou au dégoiit de la vie, au caprice du 
califourchon, 4 l’influence du sommeil, 4 la qualité du café dans les auberges, 
etc., etc. 


Au récit d’exploration d’un monde de moins en moins inconnu se substituerait le 
récit d’une expérience individuelle qui repose sur l’ambivalence entre |’évasion hors 
des contraintes d’un lieu de départ et la formation d’une nouvelle identité du sujet 
au contact du monde, comme pour Stendhal ou Nerval, et plus tard H. Michaux 
ou N. Bouvier. 


Le sujet est un monde. Si la présence du sujet dans le monde s’affirme de plus 
en plus, le sujet lui-méme en vient 4 se penser comme univers par une forme de 
spatialisation du corps physique et des données de la conscience. Sans doute est-il 
réducteur de ne considérer le récit de voyage que comme compte-rendu d’un parcours 
ou suite de choses vues. Scandé par les étapes de son itinéraire, le Journal de 
voyage en Italie 1580-1581 (1774) de Montaigne n’est peut-étre pas considéré comme 
un journal intime, mais la critique est en peine de définir l’intimité d’un sujet malade; 
les Essais proposeront une écriture du corps a l’oeuvre déja dans le Journal de 
voyage si attentif a tous les régimes de l’eau, qu’elle soit hydrographique ou 
thermale, a tel point que le corps de Montaigne peut étre perg¢u comme un réseau 
interne de circulation des eaux bues par le curiste. Plus tard, l’usage des 
psychotropes ou le relai de la psychanalyse permettront 4 un XX° siécle fatigué de 
tous les exotismes, de représenter “l’espace intérieur” (H. Michaux) comme un 


74 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


domaine intime a parcourir et 4 explorer; cette attitude est décelable chez Lorenzo 
Pestelli, la tragédie intime en plus: 


Je ne vois pas pourquoi on me condamnerait a étre l’écrivain du voyage! Je reste 
immobile et je choisis de connaitre et de pénétrer 1’Autre. L’automne me force 
a rentre dans le terrier pour creuser tout seul cet immense labyrinthe, ces nombreux 
tunnels tentaculaires par lesquels j’essaierai d’atteindre le centre intime de la terre.° 


D’un unique récit de voyage, a son inscription dans une autobiographie. II 
est d’autre part significatif de constater que les auteurs d’un unique récit, qui plus 
est un récit de voyage, font le plus souvent précéder celui-ci d’un exposé des raisons 
qui les ont conduits 4 entreprendre leur voyage et 4 en publier le récit, mais surtout, 
dans notre perspective, d’un résumé de leur vie antérieure au voyage. Ainsi, René 
Caillé, dans son Introduction au Journal d’un voyage @ Tombouctou et a Jenné, 
dans l’Afrique centrale (Paris, 1830), fait-il le récit résumé de son enfance, récit 
orienté et entiérement marqué par le désir précoce de voyager: 


Ayant eu, dés ma plus tendre enfance, un gotit prononcé pour la carriére des 
voyages, j’ai toujours saisi avec empressement les occasions qui pouvaient me 
faciliter les moyens d’acquérir de l’instruction; mais, malgré tous mes efforts pour 
suppléer au défaut d’une éducation soignée, je n’ai pu me procurer que des 
connaissances imparfaites. ... 

Je suis né en 1800, 4 Mauzé, département des Deux-Sévres, de parens pauvres; 
j’eus le malheur de les perdre dans mon enfance. Je ne recus d’autre éducation 
que celle que l’on donnait 4 l’école gratuite de mon village; dés que je sus lire 
et €crire, on me fit apprendre un métier dont je me dégoitai bient6t, grace a la 
lecture des voyages, qui occupait tous mes moments de loisir. L’histoire de 
Robinson sur-tout enflammait ma jeune téte; je brilais d’avoir comme lui des 
aventures, déja méme je sentais naitre dans mon coeur I’ambition de me signaler 
par quelque découverte importante. 

On me préta des livres de géographie et des cartes: celle de l’Afrique, ot je 
ne voyais que des pays déserts ou marqués inconnus, excita plus que toute autre 
mon attention. Enfin ce gout devint une passion pour laquelle je renongai a tout: 
je cessai de prendre part aux jeux et aux amusemens de mes camarades; je 
m’enfermai les dimanches pour lire des relations et tous les livres de voyages que 
je pouvais me procurer. Je parlai 4 mon oncle, qui était mon tuteur, de mon désir 
de voyager: il me désapprouva, me peignit avec force les dangers que je courrais 
sur mer, les regrets que j’€prouverais loin de mon pays, de ma famille; enfin il 
ne négligea rien pour me détourner de mon projet. Mais ce dessein était irrévocable; 
j’imsistai de nouveau pour partir, et il ne s’y opposa plus. 

Je ne possédais que soixante francs; ce fut avec cette faible somme que je me 


6. L. Pestelli, Pour une décollation de Saint-Soi-méme (Genéve, Z0é, 1984), p. 27; Pestelli 
est l’auteur notamment d’un admirable récit de voyage (Le Long Eté. Lausanne, CRV, 1971, 
en 2 volumes). 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie qs 


rendis 4 Rochefort, en 1816. Je m’embarquai sur la gabare la Loire, qui allait 
au Sénégal (p. 1-3). 


Ces notations et leur nécessité aléatoire sont bien sir motivées par le statut 
problématique du récit de voyage qui hésite entre le tableau (a visée encyclopédique) 
et le compte-rendu d’une expérience subjective (forcément incomplet), a la fagon 
dont les Tableaux de Paris (Paris, 1781-1790) de L. S. Mercier se différencient 
des Nuits de Paris (Paris, 1788-1793) de Restif de la Bretonne. L’introduction 
de R. Caillé a une fonction de rattrapage des informations et surtout de motivation 
du voyage; elle se présente comme un résumé rétrospectif, alors que, malgré son 
intitulé de Journal..., le récit du voyage est régi par une énonciation rétrospective 
qui représente un indice de réécriture différée. 

Dans un tout autre contexte, une attitude similaire est adoptée par le Pere Huc 
qui met une énonciation singuliére exemplaire au service d’un nous a valeur 
collective. Ainsi, dans une préface tardive a ses déja célébres Souvenirs d’un voyage 
dans la Tartarie et le Thibet pendant les années 1844, 1845 et 1846 (Paris, 1868), 
aprés une captatio benevolentiae convenue, donne-t-il le résumé de sa vie antérieure 
aux voyages missionnaires; cette vie devient exemplaire (et fictivement collective) 
dés qu’elle s’inscrit dans |’ordre religieux, moment qui doit étre compris comme 
celui de la véritable naissance du sujet, bien mieux que celui de sa naissance 
biologique: 


Plusieurs de nos amis ont bien voulu nous faire observer que notre récit commengait 
beaucoup trop brusquement, et que le lecteur devait se trouver un peu déconcerté 
en se voyant tout d’un coup transporté en-dehors de la grande muraille, et dans 
un certan royaume d’Ouniot, dont peut-étre les géographes les plus érudits ne 
connaissent pas méme le nom. Les personnes qui ne lisent pas avec beaucoup 
d’assiduité les Annales de la Propagation de la Foi, ont di, en effet, €prouver un 
grand étonnement, en voyant des Missionnaires fran¢ais au milieu des steppes de 
la Mongolie, et elles eussent été bien aises de savoir comment nous y étions 
parvenu. II en cotite toujours de parler de soi; mais puisqu’en lisant un voyage, 
il arrive quelquefois qu’on s’intéresse au voyageur, nous essayerons volontiers 
de remplir la lacune qui nous a été signalée, et de tracer un rapide itinéraire pour 
ceux qui auront le dévouement et la patience de nous suivre parmi les tribus errantes 
de la Tartarie et du Thibet. 

Au mois de février 1839, Monseigneur de Quélen nous imposa les mains, et 
nous dit au nom de Jésus-Christ: “Allez, et enseignez toutes les nations...” Quelques 
jours aprés, nous nous trouvions dans le port du Havre, sur le pont d’un navire. 
(pp. v-vi) 


Dans les deux cas, la place stratégique occupée par le résumé rétrospectif de 
la vie antérieure au voyage indique une réorganisation et une réorientation de 
l’existence a partir et en fonction du voyage. Rien n’interdirait au voyageur de 
mentionner ou de résumer cette partie de sa vie dans le récit méme de son voyage, 
introduisant une analepse dans le cours plus ou moins linéaire de sa narration; rien 


76 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


sauf 4 supposer une réticence a |’égard de la digression personnalisée qui perturberait 
un ordre et une chronologie qui sont ceux du récit de vie. 


Les récits de voyage insérés dans les autobiographies. Ceci étant, outre les textes 
que I’histoire littéraire range sous 1’ appellation de récits de voyage, lamention d’un 
voyage est fréquente dans les écritures de type autobiographique. Parmi les grandes 
entreprises autobiographiques devenues classiques, rappelons le livre vI des 
Confessions de Rousseau, les livres VI-VI-vIl, XVII des Mémoires d’Outre-tombe 
de Chateaubriand ou le volume Fibrilles de \’ensemble de la Régle du jeu de Leiris; 
ces textes sont régis par une narration ultérieure, alors que, écrit en narration quasi 
simultanée, le Journal de Michelet contient de nombreuses notations sur les voyages 
en Allemagne. 

Certaines correspondances ont été constituées en volumes de lettres de voyage, 
de George Sand (comme nous |’avons vu) a Teilliard de Chardin (Lettres de voyage, 
Paris, 1956), sans parler des volumes extraits de la correpondance globale d’un 
écrivain, comme pour les Voyages en Europe (1829-1854) de Balzac (1899). 
Lorsque 1’édition de ces volumes de correspondance plus ou moins séparés est 
publiée du vivant de, et sous la responsabilité parfois habilement déniée par |’auteur, 
la fonction du destinataire premier des lettres s’efface devant celle du lecteur du 
livre: le confident épistolaire primitif se mue en ce témoin inconnu que convoque 
non sans embarras G. Sand dans le prologue aux Lettres d’un voyageur. 


Quand le récit de voyage glisse vers l’autobiographie. De maniére assez massive, 
le récit de voyage glisse vers l’autobiographie dés lors que les péripéties du voyage 
paraissent s’estomper. A la faveur d’une navigation maritime lente et monotone, 
le Journal d’un voyage fait aux Indes orientales (1690-1691) (1979) de Robert Challe 
rappelle de nombreux moments d’existence antérieurs: quand rien ne se passerait 
autour de lui, ramené 4 l’intime par défaut et par dépi, le narrateur peut cependant 
continuer a écrire.’ Plus dramatique est le cas de M. Leiris bloqué a la frontiére 
abyssinienne par des tracasseries douaniéres, mais rebuté dés le début de la “mission 
Dakar-Dyjibouti” 4 l’idée de publier son carnet de route,* M. Leiris voit son écriture 


7. C’est précisément ce “danger” de l’immobilité en voyage que condamne Auguste Gilbert 
de Voisins et auquel il ne veut pas céder dans son Ecrit en Chine 1909-1910 (1917), rédigé 
pendant un voyage effectué avec Victor Segalen (voir surtout p. 168-169). 


8. Cf. L’Afrique fant6me (1934) (Paris, Gallimard, 1981), p. 267 (4 avril [1931]). De 
multiples notations pouvaient surprendre le lecteur attendant un carnet de route ethnogra- 
phique; un exemple, en date du 22 avril [1932]: tA quelle algebre invraisemblable ma vie 
est-elle livrée? Si je voyage, c’est pour tenter de donner corps 4 cette image que je porte 
accrochée au firmamanent de mon esprit, comme l’étoile des rois mages: deux prunelles, 
deux lévres, deux seins... Et pour rien d’autre!” (p. 288). J. Clifford propose du texte de 
M. Leiris une lecture qui n’est pas sans s’apparenter a celle d’un journal ou écrit intime, 
et ennuyeux: “What remains most inexplicable is the strange childlike innocence emerging 
somehow, each time, after experience. It is incredible that Leiris keeps on writing, and that 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie | 


replonger dans le registre de |’intime, une écriture européenne et bourgeoise tant 
détestée. Par une inversion paradoxale cependant, la publication prévue contractuel- 
lement avant la départ convainc M. Leiris de laisser paraitre ce qui est résulté étre 
un large pan de journal intime, qu’il n’avait jamais cessé d’écrire tout en le 
protégeant farouchement du regard d’autrui.? De maniére analogue mais selon 
des modalités discursives différentes, l’écriture de Stendhal traverse les pseudo-récits 
de voyage pour glisser, par le relai de figures fictives, vers le registre intime qui 
n’exclut pas la fictionalisation de soi, comme dans les Promenades dans Rome (Paris, 
1826).'° 

Les exemples de Stendhal et M. Leiris pourraient en outre offrir un appoint 
théorique intéressant. Si Ph. Lejeune est revenu sur ses premiers travaux (cf. La 
mémoire et l’oblique. Georges Perec autobiographe, Paris, 1991), sa définition 
restreinte de l’autobiographie est inséparable d’un pacte contractuel: €cartant les 
questions liées a l’analyse interne des textes, celui-ci associe les conditions de 
publication et les lectures signifiantes des oeuvres. Si fait que, dans le cas de Sartre 
dont la nature fictionnelle du moi est part entire de sa biographie, est requis 
l’adoption d’un pacte fantasmatique rattaché a la constitution par certains écrivains 
d’un “espace” autobiographique. Parmi d’autres, Stendhal et M. Leiris le laissent 
supposer: c’est parfois l’absence méme de pacte autobiographique qui conduit, soit 
4 l’écriture, soit a la publication du texte autobiographique. Comme dans le récit 
de voyage ou le carnet pseudo-ethnographique, c’est parfois 14 ot elle n’est pas 
attendue que l’autobiographie (res)surgit: sur le mode confidentiel comme pour 
Stendhal et M. Leiris, ou sur le mode héroique comme pour Chateaubriand et son 
Itinéraire de Paris a Jérusalem (Paris, 1811)."' 


Le récit de voyage dans l’oeuvre globale. A tenir, a la suite de Valéry, tout texte 
pour partie d’une entreprise d’autobiographie généralisée, 1’expérience du voyage 
et/ou le récit du voyage peut s’inscrire différemment dans l’oeuvre globale d’un 
écrivain, que ce soit thématiquement ou formellement. 

Le récit éconduit du voyage en Orient (1849-1851) contaminera de ses images 


we keep on reading, dipping in and out of these pages. [...] No moment of truth: Afrique 
fantéme is only a pen starting up each day.” (“Tell about your trip: Michel Leiris,” The 
Predicament of Culture: Twentieth-Century Ethnography, Literature, and Art. Cambridge, 
Harvard University Press, p. 172). 


9. Voir 4 ce sujet l’art. de Catherine Maubon, “Evasion et mélancolie dans L’ Afrique 
fantome,” in S. Teroni (éd.), L’Occhio del viaggiatore (Florence, Olschki, 1986), p. 156. 


10. Voir : Jean Prévost (La Création chez Stendhal, 1951) et Béatrice Didier (Stendhal 
autobiographe, 1983) 


11. Voir, entre autres, J.-Cl. Berchet, “Un Voyage vers soi”, Poétique, n° 53 (1983), p. 
91-108. 


78 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


l’oeuvre romanesque ultérieure de Flaubert.’ 

A Vinverse, dans un entretien de mai 1961 avec Madeleine Chapsal, M. Leiris 
évoque en ces termes son travail en cours, la suite de Biffures (Paris, 1943) et 
Fourbis (Paris, 1955): 


M. L. - ... J’ai fait un voyage en Chine populaire qui m’a enchanté, et au retour 

j’ai voulu écrire un livre sur la Chine populaire. Pas vraiment un livre: je n’y ai 
séjourné que cinq semaines, et comme je suis ethnographe il m’apparaissait 
impossible évidemment d’écrire un ouvrage sur la Chine, mais enfin je voulais 
faire un petit quelque chose sur la Chine populaire, et je me suis apercu que je 

ne pouvais absolument pas, j’étais complétement barré ! et c’est de ca que je suis 
parti dans Fibrilles. 

M. C. - Du voyage ou du fait que vous étiez barré? 

M. L. - De l’idée que j’étais barré. Enfin, pourquoi est-ce qu’il se trouve que c’est 
le plus beau voyage que j’aie fait, que j’étais comme un poisson dans l’eau, que je ne 
me suis, je crois, jamais aussi bien senti de ma vie, et puis, quand méme, une fois rentré, 
que je ne peux pas arriver 4 m’expliquer sur ce voyage?’? 


De fait, nous trouverons mention de ce voyage en Chine a l’ouverture de Fibrilles 
(Paris, 1966).'* Au récit éconduit du voyage va se substituer l’examen des raisons 
qui ont fait se rompre le “charme” , se désagréger “ce qui m’avait paru doué d’une 
solidité de roc”: 


Commentces cing semaines de plénitudes, ... se sont-elles vidées de leur substance 
a tel point que je me demanderais pour un peu si je ne les ai pas révées? (p. 8) 


Nous pouvions lire l'Afrique fant6me comme un récit de substitution a une cure 
psychanalytique, a laquelle M. Leiris s’était prété antérieurement et qu’il poursuivrait 
d’une autre maniére. Mais ce carnet de route contient aussi l’embryon de la méthode 
ultérieurement systématisée par le travail autobiographique et poétique de M. Leiris: 
en date du 19 juin [1932], nous trouvons une liste mélant souvenirs personnels et 
images culturelles: 


Imagerie africaine: 

L’Africaine, l’opéra de Meyerbeer ...; 

la casquette du pére Bugeaud et la smala d’Abd el Kader; 
Aida, ... ; 


12. Voir Giovanni Bonaccorso, L’oriente nella narrativa di Gustave Flaubert (Messina, 
EDAS, 1979). 


13. Madeleine Chapsal, Quinze écrivains. Entretiens (Paris, Julliard, 1963), p. 83-84. 
Mentionnons que le Journal de Chine de M. Leiris vient de faire |’ objet d’une publication 
séparée (Paris, Gallimard, 1994). 


14. Par superpositions et glissements successifs d’images, tout le volume de Fibrilles peut 
étre tenu pour un récit de voyages, celui de Chine, mais d’autres aussi (en Suisse, Egypte, 
Gréce, Italie, etc.) qui ont ponctué |’existence de 1l’écrivain. 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie ied 


histoire du prétre Jean; 

la mort de Livingstone; 

Fachoda; 

Arthur Rimbaud vendant des armes a Ménélik; ... (p. 365) 


A partir du modéle discret de la liste entrevue dans |’Afrique fantome et du 
travail élaboré dés 1943 pour les volumes de La Régle du jeu, Fibrilles va soumettre 
le voyage en Chine, la plénitude rencontrée en Asie et son désarroi faisant suite 
au retour en Europe a un examen de type psychanalytique. Le récit dés lors 
multipliera les échos et les recoupements avec la totalité saisissable de la vie 
psychique, non sans que M. Leiris fasse un usage métaphorique du terme voyage 
pour qualifier, et son nouveau travail et son écriture: 


Sans m’attarder par trop 4 faire précéder la Chine de toute ma “pré-Chine” et ne 
cédant qu’a moitié 4 cette manie qui m’est restée d’aborder par un biais - le plus 
souvent aprés maints détours - une question a quoi j’attache de l’importance, je 
livrerai ici des chinoiseries tirées de mon passé proche ou lointain et notées presque 
toutes (comme si l’énonciation de ce que j’ai a dire exigeait ce prodrome) alors 
que le voyage en Chine était déja derriére moi, et devant moi une étape nouvelle 
du voyage non localisé que j’effectue avec pour tapis volant ma table de travail. 


(p. 8) 


Ainsi, la Chine de M. Leiris n’est pas seulement le pays d’un voyage, et la 
matiére d’un (im)possible récit; elle devient ce qui rétrospectivement organise tout 
un pan de la vie psychique de l’individu, de telle sorte que la dispersion des 
“chinoiseries” acquiére sens et nécessité. Le récit de voyage se mue en exploration 
des multiples couches temporelles qui constituent l’histoire d’une vie, une exploration 
plus structurale que chronologique. 

Pluralité et diversité des temps vécus, cette modalité de l’archéologie intime 
du sujet autobiographique (existentiel et textuel) trouve peut-étre avec le voyage 
une figuration sensible adéquate, dés lors qu’ “un voyage fait songer 4 une campagne 
archéologique. Chaque kilométre nous enfonce dans le temps, comme dans une 
poussiére, désenfouit des heures anciennes, des heures en ruines.”'> Nous 
retrouvons l’importance accordée ala composante temporelle, du voyage et du récit 
de voyage, maintes fois soulignée par les voyageurs de Diderot 4 Lévi-Strauss, qu’ il 
s’agisse du temps historique, avec Volney qui insiste sur le caractére véridictif de 
sa relation: “Je me suis interdit tout tableau d’imagination, quoique je n’ignore pas 
les avantages de l’illusion auprés de la plupart des lecteurs; mais j’ai pensé que 
le genre des voyages appartenait 4 I’histoire, et non aux romans.” (“Préface” au 
Voyage en Syrie et en Egypte, Paris 1787), ou Chateaubriand: associant temps 
historique et intimité du sujet, les “Mémoires d’une année de ma vie” (“Préface” 
4 la premiére édition de |’ /tinéraire...) sont en méme temps “le livre de postes des 


15. G. Lapouge, Equinoxiales (Paris, Flammarion, 1977), p. 11. 


80 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


ruines” (“Préface” a l’édition des GEuvres completes). A sa facon, N. Bouvier 
reprendra ce modéle chateaubrianesque avec Chronique japonaise (Lausanne, 1975) 
ou se mélent la “longue durée” de la chronique mythologique et historique, et le 
“temps bref” de l’intimité du voyageur, son exploration ayant été précédemment 
décrite par N. Bouvier dans les termes d’une véritable “archéologie” (cf. L’Usage 
du monde, Genéve, 1963). 


De l’auto- 4 la pseudo-biographie dans les récits de voyage. Du Journal de 
voyage en Italie de Montaigne, nous savons que la premiére moitié est rédigée de 
la main de son “secrétaire” : en effet, jusqu’a Rome, Montaigne apparait comme 
héros-personnage du récit; il prend alors la plume et assume personnellement la 
suite du récit: “Ayant donné congé a celui de mes gens qui conduisait cette belle 
besogne, et la voyant si avancée, quelque incommodité que ce me soit, il faut que 
je la continue moi-méme ” (Folio, p. 208). L’écriture autobiographique de 
Montaigne relaie un discours que nous pouvons qualifier de biographique, dans 
la mesure ou le “secrétaire” adopte le point-de-vue d’un narrateur-témoin dont 
Montaigne est le personnage-acteur privilégié. Nous pourrions tenir cette premiére 
partie du Journal de voyage pour une pseudo-biographie ou autobiographie déléguée, 
assumée par le “secrétaire” et autorisée par Montaigne. Comme le souligne Fausta 
Garavini, 


La plume du “secrétaire” a beau étre précise et patiente, ses remarques ne nous 
apprennent, a la limite, rien de nouveau. Mais — et c’est ainsi que la dualité des 
sujets de l’écriture prend tout son sens —, au-dela de la quantité et de la qualité 
des renseignements qu’elle nous fournit, la premiére partie du Journal nous apporte 
un autre genre de témoignage, fondamental en tant que vérification objective de 
l’équivalent subjectif de la deuxiéme partie, en plus d’échos du registre égotiste 
des Essais: une biographie qui garantit l’autobiographie et qui établit la liaison 
avec le réel (Introduction 4 1’éd. Folio, p. 22). 


Non sans un brin de provocation théorique, nous pourrions considérer que la 
fonction autobiographique d’un récit de voyage est perceptible dans le texte- 
témoignage de |’autre, un discours pris en charge par un auteur-narrateur- 
personnage/témoin pas forcément anonyme comme le “secrétaire” de Montaigne, 
mais tenu pour secondaire, et dans le contenu du récit et dans I’histoire littéraire 
ouculturelle. Perceptible dans ce passage “de la pseudo-biographie a l’autobiogra- 
phie, de la mémoire de |’autre 4 la mémoire de moi, a la faveur de la scission du 
‘je’ énonciatif” ,'° ot la “scission” prend la figure du redoublement des instances 
textuelles. 

Nous pourrions dés lors ranger dans cette catégorie certains voyages entrepris 
a plusieurs, et dont deux ou plus protagonistes ont donné un ou des récits dans 


16. Louis Marin, La Voix excommuniée (Paris, Galilée, 1981), p. 41. 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie 81 


lesquels les diverses figures apparaissent comme personnages des récits de |’ autre. 
De ces récits de voyages croisés, nous pouvons dire qu’ils contiennent des traits 
énonciatifs autobiographiques de |’un et des faits biographiques de l’autre, ces 
derniers pouvant faire partie de ce que nous définirions comme une autobiographie 
déléguée 4 fonction d’attestation, et qui donne a voir et met en scéne 


cet intervalle entre moi et moi qui fait que je dois m’adresser 4 moi-méme comme 
4 un autre. C’est dans cet intervalle que la parole trouve a se déployer. Chaque 
phrase recommence |’ouverture et la réduction de cet écart interlocutoire qui est 
aussi un écart temporel. ... Une phrase ... c’est donc la variation continue d’une 
distance imaginaire 4 l'autre, la modulation indéfiniment recommencée d’un divorce 
interlocutoire (d’ol seul peut émerger du représentable) et d’une réconciliation 
ponctuelle.”” 


Le “secrétaire” et Montaigne se relaient, le premier quittant la scéne quand 
le second prend la plume; ce cas est assez rare, sauf dans sa variante inverse lorsque 
le maitre ou le chef d’une expédition (qui jusqu’alors commandait son récit) meurt 
et que son second prend la plume pour terminer le récit du voyage; c’est notamment 
le cas du Voyage en Californie pour l’observation du passage de Vénus sur le disque 
solaire (1769) (Paris, 1772) commencé par Chappe d’ Auteroche, et poursuivi par 
M. Cassini; ou du Voyage aux terres australes... 1800-1804 (Paris, 1807-1816) 
commencé par F. Péron et, a la mort de ce dernier, poursuivi dans les larmes par 
L. Cl. de Freycinet. 

D’ autres figures duelles sont possibles. Du relai a l’alternance d’€écriture, nous 
avons le texte Par les champs et par les gréves dont les chapitres ont été écrits 
alternativement par Flaubert (impairs) et par Maxime Du Camp (pairs), méme si 
nous ne connaissons que le texte de Flaubert rassemblé en un volume posthume 
(Paris, 1885).'* 

Le cas le plus fréquent cependant est celui d’un double récit 4 partir d’un unique 
voyage effectué 4 deux ou plus personnes. Parmi ces récits de voyages croisés, 


17. Laurent Jenny, La Parole singuliére (Paris, Belin, 1990), p. 177. 


18. Le voyage en Bretagne semble avoir été accompli en parfaite entente, alors que ce ne 
sera pas le cas plus tard, lors du voyage commun en Orient. Recevant de Du Camp un 
chapitre refondu de leurs notes sur la Bretagne, Flaubert écrit 4 son ami: “Ah! cher Max, 
j’ai été bien attendri, va, en lisant une certaine page de regrets, eten y resongeant a ce pauvre 
bon petit voyage en Bretagne. Oui, il est peu probable que nous en refaisions un pareil; ¢a 
ne se renouvelle pas une seconde fois. Il y aurait méme peut-étre de la bétise a l’essayer. 
Ah! comme il m’en est venu tantét une volée de souvenirs dans la téte! De la poussiére, 
des tournants de route, des montées de cOte au soleil, et encore, comme il y a un an, des 
songeries 4 deux au bord des fossés! Et dire que lorsque tu iras boire l’eau du Nil, je ne 
serai pas avec toi!” (Cité par M. Du Camp, Souvenirs littéraires. Paris, 1882, 1, 363-364). 
La suite du texte de Du Camp montre bien quel degré d’envie posthume animait celui-ci 
al’égard de sonami, alors qu’a l’époque du voyage en Bretagne, tous deux semblaient avoir 
les mémes chances face 4 la célébrité. 


82 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


mentionnons 4a titre indicatif: 

— Chateaubriand, /tinéraire de Paris a Jérusalem... (Paris, 1811), et le récit du 
méme voyage demandé par Chateaubriand 4 son serviteur Julien Potelin, aprés 
publication de I’Jtinéraire, et dont Chateaubriand se servira pour les chap. | 
et 11 du livre xvi des Mémoires d’Outre-tombe; 

— M.DuCamp, Le Nil (Paris, 1853), et Flaubert, Voyage en Orient (resté a1’ état 
de notes, et publié aprés la mort de l’écrivain): dans son récit, Du Camp néglige 
la figure de Flaubert dont il est encore 4 cette é6poque une sorte de rival intime 
et littéraire, alors qu’il lui rendra un hommage presque trop appuyé dans ses 
Souvenirs littéraires (Paris, 1882-1883) ot il assume le réle de gardien de la 
mémoire de son ami; 

— Victor Segalen et Auguste Gilbert des Voisins, Ecrit en Chine (Paris, 1917), 
qui voyagent en amis et en complices, méme si A. G. des Voisins fait figure 
d’armateur du voyage et V. Segalen de connaisseur de la Chine: “Alors Segalen 
me parle de cet empereur du temps jadis. Je l’écoute pieusement, car il sait 
conter, il sait faire revivre.” (4 Ming, 29 juillet 1909); 

— Paul et Minnie Bourget, Journaux croisés (1909) d’un voyage en Italie ou 
l’admiration conjugale de l’épouse se glisse dans les pas de l’époux; 

— André Gide, Voyage au Congo (Paris, 1927), et Marc Allégret, Carnets du 
Congo (1925-1926). 

Ces exemples pourraient étre multipliés; ils soulignent combien la dimension 

autobiographique d’un texte peut faire 4 moins d’une relation contractuelle avec 

ses lecteurs-destinataires, et recourir au détour soit du récit de voyage, soit de 
lautorité d’un témoin hétéro-biographeur. 


II. SUR LA FORME 


Quant a l’énonciation, des indices d’une énonciation personnelle sont souvent 
présents dans les récits de voyages, explicite avec les occurrences d’un/e pratique 
ou lyrique, ou implicite quand tout discours émane d’un sujet: celui-ci peut s’effacer 
comme personne, mais non comme producteur de discours, si nous prétons attention 
aux dispositifs rhétoriques et pragmatiques de l’énonciation, ou aux diverses 
modalités de la description redevable a un savoir et 4 un vocabulaire disponible 
toujours spécifique, que ce soit celui du religieux, du diplomate, du marchand, du 
navigateur, ou du savant spécialisé dans telle ou telle discipline académique. Le 
caractére particularisant du discours semble soumis a des modéles qui nous induisent 
a le lire comme exemplaire et représentatif d’une certaine classe de voyageurs dont 
ce méme discours émanerait et auxquels il serait plus spécifiquement adressé, comme 
les marchands de Jean Thévenot (Voyage du Levant, Paris, 1665). 

Ainsi, le récit de voyage se doit de déterminer une posture discursive, 
doublement rhétorique dans la mesure ov elle s’élabore par convergence des éléments 
liés a l’énonciation (quel que soit le degré de présence explicite d’un énonciateur 
dans son propos, tout discours émane de quelqu’un et est adressé 4 quelqu’un) et 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie 83 


de ceux liés 4 la construction d’un objet de discours. Jusqu’a la fin du XVIII siécle, 
cette nécessité était présentée, discutée de facon privilégiée et selon des tratégies 
diverses, dans l’appareil paratextuel (avertissement, introduction, préface, etc.). 
Ainsi, comme le rappelle J.-Cl. Berchet,'’ la Préface au Voyage en Syrie et en 
Egypte de Volney commence par des indications autobiographiques, met en scene 
un narrateur personnalisé et responsable qui souligne le caractére scientifique et 
objectif de sa relation, et revendique une entiére crédibilité par son refus de la fable 
(“le genre des voyage appart(ient) 4 l’histoire, non au roman”). Mais, passé le 
seuil de cette Préface, le narrateur va devenir omniscient, et opérer la fusion de 
ce qu’il a vu lui-méme et de ce qu’il a lu ou entendu dire, selon un modéle historique 
qui remonte a Hérodote: le Voyage en Syrie ne sera pas, en effet, un récit linéaire, 
historicisé, mais une synthése démonstrative. 

Ce modéle de stratégie et de légitimation discursives et narratives connait de 
multiples résurgences jusqu’a la fin du XIX‘ siécle. Mais plusieurs éléments ont 
favorisé parallélement |’inscription explicite d’une énonciation personnelle, puis 
autobiographique, dans les récits de voyage, surtout a partir de la seconde moitié 
du xviii siécle. Dans notre perspective, le plus important de ces éléments est sans 
doute le fait que le récit de voyage pouvait amener son auteur a présenter comme 
vérité générale une simple anecdote particuliére, 4 donner crédit a, et a se laisser 
abuser par des informateurs locaux au sujet d’éléments de la vie et des moeurs des 
pays visités. Ainsi, dans son réquisitoire Des mensonges imprimés (1749), Voltaire 
fait-il la part belle aux illusions et mensonges colportés par les récits de voyages 
et contestés, ou démentis par d’autres voyageurs. La réponse 4 ce dilemne pouvait 
emprunter deux voies: soit le voyageur était invité 4 mobiliser en chaque circonstance 
tout son esprit critique, c’est-a-dire pour I’époque 4 voyager en philosophe-€crivain; 
soit, le critére de vérité se muant en critére de sincérité, le voyageur devait insister 
sur le caractére absolument subjectif, personnel de son propos, un propos dont le 
sérieux souvent incontestable pourra se dégrader jusqu’a la tournure anecdotique 
parodiée par les “récits excentriques” (Daniel Sangsue) dans la postérité de Sterne. 

Le voyageur qui écrit est attaché a la singularité des choses et des événements; 
le philosophe-écrivain qui voyage serait plus apte 4 lier/relier cette singularité des 
faits A des ensembles (historiques, sociologiques, etc.). Mais si, selon Aristote 
(Poétique, 51b 5-10), le général reléve de la poésis alors que le particulier est du 
domaine de I’histoire et de la chronique, |’autorité critique du philosophe-écrivain 
se double d’une compétence discursive: il sait voir, il sait écrire, il sait donc étre 
vrai. Mais, vérité ou mensonge des faits rapportés, le rapport de l’écriture a la 
sincérité demeure énigmatique, d’autant plus si le critére de sincérité est mesuré 
en fonction d’un naturel stylistique, susceptible de produire des effets de vérité. 


19. “La Préface des récits de voyage au XIx® siécle,” in Ecrire le voyage, textes réunis par 
Gyorgy Tverdota (Paris, 1974), p. 3-15. 


84 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


Sous couvert de transparence discursive, cette querelle stylistique reconduit une 
illusoire incompatibilité (étre vrai vs savoir écrire) et une idéologie de l’immédiate 
et simple innocence, que de nombreux écrivains (de Stendhal 4 N. Bouvier) 
travaillent comme un sommet de I’artifice. 

Subjectivité explicite, personnalisation énonciative qui irait de pair avec une 
sincérité du propos: c’est sans doute la vogue des Lettres édifiantes et curieuses 
des Jésuites du XVIII’ siécle, ou des Relations un siécle plus t6t, qui ont focalisé 
les discussions sur une poétique du récit de voyage tenue, dés Francois-Maximilien 
Misson et son Nouveau voyage en Italie (1691), pour inséparable de la forme 
épistolaire redevable 4 des modalités d’écriture autobiographique: 1’illusion 
d’immédiateté devait redoubler ie ton de la conversation sans apprét a l’adresse 
d’un destinataire privé auquel il ne servirait 4 rien de mentir ou de dissimuler. 
Ce souci de l’effet de lecture était si prédominant qu’il autorisait la réécriture 
ultérieure des notes d’un calepin en lettres de voyage: jouant ainsi de la mimesis 
formelle, un acte énonciatif autobiographique fictif délivrant un contenu factuel, 
la vérité du contenu pouvait fort bien s’accommoder de la convocation d’un 
destinataire feint. Les lettres de voyage du Prés. de Brosses, de Bernardin de St- 
Pierre, Astolphe de Custine, Fromentin paraissent d’autant plus authentiques que 
l’acte d’énonciation mis en scéne est artificiel, l’identité textuelle et narrative du 
sujet prenant le pas sur son identité personnelle; |’opportunisme mondain de Maxime 
Du Camp s’y coulera aisément, lorsqu’il réécrit ses notes et dédie les pseudo-lettres 
du Mil (Paris, 1853) 4 Théophile Gautier. 

Nous pouvons alors dire que l’autobiographisation des récits de voyage au 
tournant du XIX* siécle répond aussi, partiellement du moins, 4 une exigence 
formelle. 


Du point de vue de la syntaxe narrative, diverses modalités analogiques et 
formelles rapprochent récit de voyage et autobiographie, dans leur globalité ou leur 
fragmentation. Si, pour l’autobiographie, la naissance et la mort impossibles a 
raconter constituent des bornes thématiques, pour le récit de voyage, le départ et 
l’arrivée en seraient les équivalents médiateurs: contournant l’arbitraire du début 
et de la fin du récit, ils permettent de “simuler” et donc de raconter une naissance 
et une mort, mais aussi bien de mettre en scéne toutes les figures d’arrachement 
et d’attachement: 


a la fagon de l’autobiographie, le récit [de voyage] tend 4 donner un rythme, un 
sens a une aventure, a faire de détails hasardeux une totalité. Celui qui écrit et 
celui qui voyage peuvent étre aussi distants qu’un vivant et qu’un défunt, comme 
dans l’exercice autobiographique qui consiste a tenir sa vie pour chose morte.” 


20. J. Roudaut, “Quelques variables du récit de voyage,” Nouvelle revue francaise, n° 377 
(Juin 1984), 59. 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie 85 


Flaubert ena pleinement conscience lorsqu’il essaie de rédiger les notes des carnets 
d’Orient; la mention de |’ “arrivée 4 Paris” aprés la séparation déchirante d’avec 
sa mére est l’occasion de cette notation: “Entre le moi de ce soir et le moi de ce 
soir-la, il y a la différence du cadavre au chirurgien qui l’autopsie.” Le narrateur 
d’un récit de voyage pouvait se représenter en “archéologue” du temps vécu et de 
la mémoire; la figure du “chirurgien” lui ressemble, avec ce tranchant supplémentaire 
du scalpel fouillant le corps du sujet, et non plus seulement sa conscience. 
Mais la citation précédente suggére autre chose. Du point de vue formel, le 
récit de voyage est associé a plusieurs types génériques (lettre, journal, mémoire,etc.) 
repérables aussi bien dans un texte considéré dans sa globalité que dans la suite 
et l’'agencement de ses morceaux; nous l’avons vu: ses modalités discursives peuvent 
de ce fait étre multiples. Si Bourlinguer (Paris, 1948) de Cendrars joue sur une 
diversité notable des séries temporelles non linéaires, un récit de voyage comme 
L’Usage du Monde (Genéve, 1963) de Nicolas Bouvier redouble la narration d’un 
voyage de Suisse en Afghanistan par l’insertion de pages d’un journal intime, de 
chroniques historiques et religieuses, de “choses vues”, de dialogues ou de portraits, 
de poémes, etc., voire de propos méta-discursifs (“Ecrits six ans aprés” ) de l’auteur 
occupé a rédiger une premiére couche de notes prises sur un calepin. Ainsi, véritable 
“polylogue” ou chef de choeur, le narrateur du récit de voyage doit 


jouer de la discontinuité et de la fragmentation des temps, des lieux et des matiéres, 
méler anecdotes rapportées et récits de réves, légendes et rapports de lecture. A 
la fagon du journal, le récit de voyage associe les styles et peut glisser de la prose 
au vers. Sa qualité majeure est une disparate, qui serait récusée ailleurs.”! 


Ill. CONCLUSION 


Ainsi, tant au niveau des formes que des contenus, les recherches sur |’autobiogra- 
phie pourraient trouver par le détour des récits de voyage matiére 4 nuancer, voire 
4 redéfinir certaines positions théoriques restreintes. Sans compter le bénéfice qui 
pourrait résulter du rapprochement non contraint entre une écriture du sujet 
considérée trop souvent comme autarcique, voire autiste, et le recours a une 
configuration spatiale qui ouvre a une représentation symbolique du sujet individuel. 
Dés avant Ecuador (Paris, 1929), H. Michaux est “revenu” de tout voyage et de 
tout exotisme, comme il semble projeté dans un au-dela moins posthume que latéral, 
décentré;” il n’a cessé cependant de considérer |’écriture comme une modalité 
du voyage: “J’écris pour me parcourir” (Passages, Paris, 1950). 

Dans la plupart de ses manifestations, |’écriture autobiographique vise a affirmer 


21. J. Roudaut, “Le Voyage,” in Lieu de composition (Paris, Gallimard, 1989), p. 171. 


22. Le court texte au titre significatif de Qui je fus (1924) parait alors que H. Michaux n’a 
que 25 ans; il ne propose pas le bilan d’une vie, mais signale que tout ce qui suivra sera 
vécu, écrit comme 4-coté, ou ailleurs. 


86 ADRIEN PASQUALI 


une identité du sujet, la “tension” (J. Sturrock) de l’autobiographie se marquant 
par la volonté ambigué de singularisation de |’individu (je suis la matiére d’un 
texte...) et d’appartenance 4 la communauté des hommes (... qui en appelle 4 toi, 
lecteur); en d’autres termes, |’écriture autobiographique tente de remplir un signifiant 
vide (le nom) de signifiés référenriels et existentiels, de le remplir par le trajet qui 
permettrait de concilier un sujet scindé existentiellement et fonctionnellement en 
personnage et narrateur, double “je” aussi nécessaire qu’intenable dans I’immobilité 
feinte du lieu d’énonciation: quand un surplus d’existence est recherché, seul un 
surcroit de langage est atteint, “le fait biographique, textuel) s’aboli(ssant) dans 
le signifiant”.”> L’originalité de M. Leiris aura été de substituer a cette affirmation 
de soi, une construction de soi qui emprunte ses procédés tout a la fois a 
l’ethnographie, au surréalisme et 4 la psychanalyse: en termes évocateurs, la 
substitution favorise le glissement d’une talking cure A une writing cure,” 
glissement dont nous avons vu qu’il avait sa source dans certain moment d’inactivité 
consignés dans |’ Afrique fantéme. 

Déployant un moment d’existence dans l’espace du monde, l’horizon uitime 
du récit de voyage ne constitue pas une volonté d’ affirmation ou de réappropriation 
du sujet individuel; mais un désir de décentrement, de transformation et de 
construction du nom dans lequel se li(e)rait une expérience et des virtualités: “Le 
nom: valeur d’aprés coup, et de longue expérience,”*> remarque H. Michaux. 
Quittant l’univers des héritages et des contraintes, le voyageur est invité a vider 
le signifiant du nom de ses signifiés antérieurs, 4 passer du nom imposé au nom 
qu’il ne savait pas porter intimement, comme un double que |’on poursuit dans la 
mobilité permanente du sujet et la constante différance du lieu d’énonciation. Promis 
par l’espace parcouru, ce désancrage est une maniére de dire la difficulté d’habiter 
le temps, si ce n’est de I’ abolir: 


Voyager, c’est toujours chercher a lacher son ombre, se fuir pour survivre. Ce 
n’est donc pas par souci du pittoresque que l’on traverse le monde. On voyage 
pour se désancrer. Pour changer de vie.”° 


Sur les hauts plateaux du Tibet, Victor Segalen rencontre cet Autre fant6matique 
qui le hante comme un enfant;”’ dans les montagnes abyssiniennes, M. Leiris livre 
bataille au fant6me qui le ronge d’impuissance, alors que son espoir, semblable 
a celui de Chateaubriand, est celui du chevalier médiéval voulant se défaire du vieil 


23. Roland Barthes par Roland Barthes (Paris, Le Seuil, 1980), p. 60. 


24. John Sturrock, The Language of Autobiography (Londres, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1994), 
surtout le ch. 10. 


25. Ecuador (1929) (Paris, Gallimard/L’Imaginaire, 1990), p. 28. 
26. J. Roudaut, “Le voyage”, p. 171. 
27. Cf. Equipée (1929) (Paris, Gallimard/L’Imaginaire, 1983), p.40, 120. 


Récit de voyage et autobiographie 87 


homme, pour étre digne de sa dame: “Le retour a pour moi la forme d’un seul visage 
sans lequel il y a beau temps qu’il n’aurait été pour moi question de rien, - pas 
question, en tout cas, de retour aprés un tel départ” (L’Afrique fantéme, en date 
du 14 février 1933). 

Franchir un col alpin permet 4 Henri Beyle de devenir “Stendhal”, et nous 
entendrons désormais dans ce nom une conception du bonheur et de l’écriture; a 
Tahiti, les suivantes de la reine Pomaré font de Julien Viaud un Pierre Rroti/Loti 
qui écrit A sa soeur: “J’ai maintenant deux patries, Tahiti et la Saintonge” (Lettre 
du 19 mai 1872). Et la Paques a New York (Paris, 1912) embrase et transmue 
Frédéric Sauser en “Blaise Cendrars”. Car 


le nom est tout a la fois générateur de texte et de destin ..., inversement la 
prescience du destin (l’histoire fantasmée par le sujet qui s’actualise en destin), 
détermine le choix du nom. ... Le nom (propre) est une matrice; de lui €manent 
non seulement des formes et des images, mais une structure signifiante. Par son 
entremise peuvent donc étre tissés ensemble (racontés en un texte) des énoncés 
autrement incompatibles.”* 


Mais trouver un nom, transiter de la patrie référentielle du nom a sa matrice 
linguistique, c’est aussi parfois passer de sa compréhension contrainte a une 
acceptation sereine, une re-connaissance (dans un sens presque claudélien) inséparable 
d’un travail interne sur le nom; ainsi de N. Bouvier, que le nom renvoie aux verts 
paturages de la langue et du pays natals. Ses voyages auront (entre autres) permis 
de dépouiller le nom de son importance, de son “enflure” européennes; progressive- 
ment réconcilié avec le “boeuf” qui le hante” comme pour “avoir tout a fait raison 
de ce moi qui fait obstacle a tout,”* N. Bouvier se place sereinement sous la tutelle 
d’animaux d’accompagnement, ou animaux-totems tels Le Hibou et la Baleine 
(Genéve, 1993) offerts par le Japon, un pays significativement vécu comme une 
cure d’amaigrissement: “le voyage n’est pas un moyen d’évasion. II ne lui est pas 
non plus demandé d’apporter un savoir, mais une guérison. Comme 1’écriture 


28. Francoise Gaillard, “Le Nom du poéte,” Cahiers de la recherche du S.1.D., 0° 7 
(Automne 1980), 37-39. 


29. Voir Chronique japonaise (1975) (Paris, Payot, 1991), p. 41, 251. De maniére amusante 
et indicative, le “boeuf” réapparait lorsque Bouvier évoque la nécessité du gagne-pain (cf. 
Routes et déroutes. Entretiens avec Irene Lichtenstein-Falls. Genéve, Metropolis, 1992, p. 
73). Mais le “boeuf” permet aussi d’indiquer, par référence a la fable de La Fontaine, le 
danger d’explosion qui guette le voyageur trop rempli d’expériences (Ibid., p. 152); d’ou 
la nécessité mesurée de pratiquer l’écriture comme une saignée sur soi (/bid., p. 87, 210). 


30. Le Poisson-Scorpion (1980) (Paris, Payot, 1990), p. 46. Ainsi, face 4 un groupe d’enfants 
qui lui demandent des signatures: “Mais je déteste signer: donner comme de la bonne monnaie 
Aces gamins si confiants ce nom que le voyage a vidé de toute substance me fait l’effet d’une 
imposture. J’écris donc ‘scarabée,’ ‘cavalcade,’ j’écris ‘farine,’ bref! des mots qui portent 
un peu la musique et la chance’” (p. 253). 


88 ADRIEN PASQUALI 
permet une survie.”*! 

Dans la tradition occidentale du voyage et de I’écriture considérés comme quéte, 
la métaphore du voyage-écriture est omniprésente. Fréquemment invoquée, elle 
insére un contemporain comme N. Bouvier dans une tradition qui va au moins de 
Montaigne a Butor: 


Je trouve qu’entre le voyage et l’écriture il y a un point commun, pour moi trés 
important. Dans les deux cas, il s’agit d’un exercice de disparition, d’escamotage. 
Parce que quand vous n’y étes plus, les choses viennent... Et du fait que l’existence 
entiére est un exercice de disparition, je trouve que tant le voyage que 1’écriture 
sont de trés bonnes écoles.* 


Voyage-effacement et écriture-disparition: cette analogie associe la mise a I’épreuve 
physique du sujet et la mise 41’€preuve de son moyen d’expression, le corps propre 
du sujet et sa représentation comme corps de langage(s),** hyperboliquement 
figuré(s) dans le nom. Comme si l’effacement du moi patriarcal permettait une 
réappropriation, une reformulation du nom qui devienne matriciel. Tout récit de 
voyage pourrait invoquer les mots de Jabés: “Je ne suis que parole. I] me faut un 
visage”, ce visage dont la figuration textuelle et littérale serait le nom. Un nom 
enfin propre: non celui de |’autobiographie, mais du projet d’existence et de la 
rencontre possibles; non celui des signifiés passés, mais du signifiant ouvert. 

En somme, si le récit de voyage fait siennes certaines modalités de 1’écriture 
autobiographique, c’est pour ne pas y demeurer et changer une suppléance en 
supplément: au récit (rétrospectif ou simultané) d’une vie qui n’est souvent récit 
que par carence de vie, il substitue la reconnaissance d’un nom qui, du passé et/ou 
du présent toujours différé du sujet, propose une promesse de vie, |’anticipation 
de ce qui échappe encore 4 l’autobiographie, d’un référent 4 venir. 


Fond National Suisse de la Recherche Scientifique 


31. J. Roudaut, “Le voyage,” p. 172. 
32. Routes et déroutes, p. 153. 
33. Ibid., pp. 85-87, 210. 


MICHEL BIDEAUX 





Le Voyage d’Italie, 
instrument de la connaissance de soi 
par la fréquentation d’autrui 


Il n’est guére de voyageur du XVI siécle qui ne s’accorderait avec Montaigne, 
quand ce dernier estime qu’ “il se tire une merveilleuse clarté, pour le jugement 
humain, de la frequentation du monde”. Sans partager nécessairement sa passion 
pour la connaissance, toujours inachevée, du moi, la plupart souscrirait encore a 
l’affirmation selon laquelle “ce grand monde, ... c’est le mirouér ov il nous faut 
regarder pour nous connoistre de bon biais”' . Ainsi, dans l’activité qui consiste 
a “frotter et limer notre cervelle contre celle d’autruy” (I, p. 153), la relation a 
l'autre apparait comme un moment essentiel de |’acquisition de la connaissance. 
Il est significatif que ces formulations illustres apparaissent dans un chapitre intitulé 
“De l’institution des enfants”, que Montaigne livre au public quelques semaines 
seulement avant de partir pour |’ Allemagne et I’Italie. La rencontre confirme une 
fonction essentielle de cette derniére destination. A c6té de la piété qui pousse aux 
pélerinages dans les Lieux Saints, de l’esprit de lucre ou d’aventure qui lance les 
Européens vers les terres nouvellement découvertes, il y a le désir de formation 
intellectuelle et humaine qui conduit leurs pas vers une Italie souvent controversée, 
mais toujours reconnue, jusque dans le spectacle de ses faiblesses, comme une 
incomparable institutrice. A “l’automne de la Renaissance”, alors que l’éblouisse- 
ment devant les découvertes de I’humanisme a été bien tempéré, par une relative 
satiété d’abord, par la crise méme des valeurs humanistes ensuite, |’ Italie continue, 
pour deux siécles encore, 4 accueillir des visiteurs, le plus souvent jeunes, désireux 
de parachever leur formation et de mieux se connaitre en s’éprouvant au contact 
d’un pays qui dicte le ton de la civilité. 

Sur quels plans la découverte et la connaissance de |’autre parviennent-elles 
a informer, 4 modeler le comportement et les idées du visiteur? Nous voudrions 
l’examiner ici 4 travers un corpus 4 la fois homogéne dans le temps et l’espace et 
varié dans les signatures: celui que constituent les relations de voyages effectués 
entre 1580 et 1606 par l’illustre essayiste, curiste et touriste que nous venons 
d’évoquer, par le chevalier de Villamont, dont les Voyages serviront de guide a 


1. Essais, 1, 26, éd. Villey-Saulnier (Paris, P.U.F., 1988), I, 157. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


90 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


plusieurs générations, par trois anonymes enfin, dont les relations longtemps inédites 
ont été récemment publiées’. Etudiant “la problématique de I’altérité” dans les 
textes relatifs 4 la colonisation de |’ Amérique, T. Todorov proposait récemment? 
de reconnaitre trois plans: successivement axiologique (des jugements de valeurs), 
praxéologique (rapprochement, éloignement ou indifférence par rapport al’ autre), 
épistémique (“je connais ou j’ignore l’identité de l’autre”). Sans discuter ici la 
pertinence de ce modéle pour |’étude du monde amérindien ou d’autres univers 
lointains, on peut en proposer, pour le corpus considéré, |’adaptation suivante: un 
plan épistémologique, ot se trouvent définies les conditions d’accés a la connaissance 
de l’autre, et que la praxis (l’enquéte sur le terrain) explore plus ou moins 
méthodiquement, le plan praxémique du rapport 4 l’autre (o0 se précise, pour le 
visiteur, sa propre identité), un plan axiologique enfin, ot se confrontent et se 
redéfinissent les valeurs morales. Des passerelles existent, sans doute: la méthode 
s’affine au contact du pays et des hommes, on ne saurait rejeter, accepter autrui, 
accentuer sa propre différence sans que le jugement intervienne. 


* * *K *K 


Sur les moyens dont se dote le voyageur de la Renaissance pour appréhender 
les realia italiennes comme sur le regard qu’il porte sur elles, on a déja beaucoup 
écrit*. On préférera s’en tenir ici aux cadres majeurs de l’acquisition de la 
connaissance et de l’exercice de l’appréciation critique. Deux caractéristiques 
paraissent marquer |’ épistémé du voyage en Italie: discernement dans la perception, 
équité dans le jugement. 

Nos voyageurs ont 4 leur disposition des instruments livresques, anciens ou 
plus récents. Ils ne dédaignent pas de relire Pline et de montrer qu’ils le font, de 
recourir aux monumentales cosmographies du premier demi-siécle: on sait que 
Montaigne regrettera de n’avoir pas emporté un Miinster ou quelque autre “dans 


2. Toutes trois dans la collection “Textes” du C.I.R.V.I., 4 Genéve, Slatkine; successive- 
ment: Voyage d’Italie (1606) (éd. Michel Bideaux, 1981), Discours viatiques (1588) (éd. 
Luigi Monga, 1983) et Voyage de Provence et d’Italie (1588-1589) (éd. L. Monga, 1994). 
Nous citons le Journal de voyage de Montaigne dans |’édition de Fausta Garavini (Paris, 
Folio, 1983). 


3. La conquéte de l’Amérique. La question de l’autre (Paris, Seuil, 1982); repris dans la 
Collection Points, 1991, p. 233. 


4. Voir l’ouvrage fondamental de Ludwig Schudt, Italienreisen im 17. und 18. Jahrhundert 
(Wien-Munchen, Schroll Verlag, 1959). Consulter également M. Bideaux, intr. 4 1’éd. cit. 
du Voyage d’Italie (1606); Luigi Monga, “Itinéraires de Frangais en Italie 4 1’époque de 
Montaigne”, in Montaigne e l’'Italia (Moncalieri, C.I.R.V.I., 1991), p. 437-449 et ses intr. 
aux éd. cit. des Discours viatiques et Voyage de Provence et d’Italie, ainsi que son étude 
“Voyage et récit de voyage a la Renaissance”, Montaigne Studies, V, 1-2 (1993), p. 97-111. 


Le Voyage d’Italie, instrument de la connaissance de soi 91 


ses coffres”*. Ils leur préférent toutefois de plus maniables auxiliaires: guides et 
routiers. Alberti et Schott-Capugnano sont les plus sollicités®, avant que Villamont 
n’impose, pour un siécle, son autorité. 

Mais ils connaissent aussi les vertus de l’expérience directe et de la communica- 
tion personnelle: de 14 ce gout pour les conversations, facilité par une maitrise assez 
répandue parmi eux de la langue italienne, pour les rencontres sollicitées, de 
célébrités ou de puissants personnages. Des requétes spécifiques ou des considéra- 
tions strictement sociales peuvent les motiver, mais le plus souvent on sent poindre 
chez les visiteurs une passion toute moderne pour |’entretien dirigé, l’interview: 
elle n’est nulle part si apparente que chez Montaigne quand il veut s’enquérir des 
questions religieuses qui se soulévent partout en Europe et quand il s’irrite de ne 
pas trouver un interlocuteur qualifié. De 14 également leur gout pour les spectacles 
et les cérémonies dont est prodigue une Italie passée maitresse de la mise en scéne 
urbaine: ils flattent le regard, sans doute, par leur pittoresque, mais surtout ils 
donnent a lire, sous l’apparat de la manifestation, les inclinations les plus profondes 
du pays: nature de la dévotion, formes du respect 4 1’égard des pouvoirs en place, 
poids des traditions ou des fantasmes (carnaval, exécutions publiques). La rue, 
la route, le restaurant: tout est occasion pour apprendre. 

Il existe méme une topographie de l’apprentissage, qui s’exprime dans la 
recherche des hauts lieux d’ow le visiteur jouira d’une perspective idéale pour 
appréhender la contrée’: la richesse et la hardiesse de |’architecture civile et 
religieuse d’Italie lui fournit A cet égard d’incomparables points d’ observation. 
L’auteur des Discours viatiques monte les “trois cens degrez” du Dome de Milan, 
pour voir “de tous costez la ville et, sans les brouillars”, il edt “peu voir encores 
Bergame et Pavie” (p. 57). Méme stratégie 4 Florence*: “cing cens degrez” cette 


5. Ed. cit., p. 114. Montaigne posédait la Cosmographie universelle de Sébastien Munster 
(édition de Bale, 1568). 


6. Ainsi de l’anonyme auteur du Voyage d’Italie (1606), rendu a Milan: “J’ay verifié les 
choses qui y sont plus remarquables sur le livre itinéraire de Fran¢ois Schot et Hierosme 
Capugnan, qui disent tout ce que j’en pourrois dire et qui se peut scavoir en general et en 
particulier de I’Italie, plus recents que Leandre Albert” (p. 50). La Descrittione di tutta Italia 
date de 1550, l’ouvrage de Schott-Capugnano de 1600-1601. 


7. Méthode dont, bien stir, les voyageurs de la Renaissance, n’ont pas l’exclusivité: Huguetan 
la préconise 4 Rome (Voyage d’Italie, 1681, p. 54) et Montesquieu s’en réclame: “Quand 
j’arrive dans une ville, je vais toujours sur le plus haut clocher ou la plus haute tour, pour 
voir le tout ensemble, avant de voir les parties ; et, en la quittant, je fais de méme, pour 
fixer mes idées.” (Voyages, éd. A. de Montesquieu, Bordeaux, 1894, I, p. 208). Pour le 
Président de Bordeaux en voyage, voir et com-prendre ne font qu’un. 


8. Exemple que suivra Villamont, pour y compter “cing cens soixante et huict degrés”. 
Montaigne également avait entrepris la montée de ces escaliers (Journal de voyage, éd. cit., 
p. 178-179. Sur les variations des voyageurs dans les mesures et les décomptes rapportés, 
voir la riche note de L. Monga (éd. Discours viatiques, p. 212-213). 


92 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


fois, “et ainsy du hault de la tour se voit la ville, toute ronde et grande” (p. 73). 
Sa foi dans les vertus de l’escalade de reconnaissance s’exprime jusque dans la visite 
du port de Génes: “nous ... feusmes voir les galleres au port et les navires dehors, 
dans l’une desquelles, par une eschelle de corde, je monté jusques au hault de 
l’arbre” (p. 68). L’anonyme voyageur de 1606, quand il gravit 4 Bologne la tour 
des Asinelli, apprend que cette pratique peut étre dangereuse (éd. cit., p. 58); mais 
il n’en a pas moins, visitant Milan, affirmé sa légitimité: 


C’est une chose naturelle de monter haut pour voir de plus loing, et une coustume 
qui est bone pour considerer d’une seule veue toutes les diverses choses dedens 
et dehors d’une ville, son paysage, son plan, sa situation, sa closture, ses cartiers, 
ses rues, de monter en quelque eminent lieu avec homme qui sache deviser de 
ce qui se voit: ainsy en fait-on 4 Paris du haut des tours Nostre Dame, et 4 Milan 
de la sommité du Dome. (p. 46) 


On aimerait enfin étre assuré qu’existe bien chez nos voyageurs le désir de 
ne pas compromettre leurs chances de satisfaire la curiosité qui est en eux par une 
fréquentation trop assidue de leurs compatriotes, qui les détournerait d’autant de 
l’accés aux naturels du pays. Méme si, dans la pratique, on les sent friands de 
telles rencontres ot s’accroit la connaissance véritable, on ne voit guére que 
Montaigne pour avoir claire conscience du danger et “se jeter aux tables les plus 
espesses d’estrangers”’. 

Dans le traitement des données fournies par ces diverses voies d’information 
paraissent prévaloir des habitudes révélatrices de certaines préoccupations d’hygiéne 
intellectuelle. Enunage quicommence 4 prendre ses distances avec le pédantisme, 
nos auteurs, méme s’ils mettent volontiers leurs pas dans ceux de leurs guides, ont 
scrupule a les recopier trop servilement. Montaigne lui-méme, pourtant curieux 
d’inscriptions, refuse d’en rapporter une qui “se trouve dans plusieurs livres 
imprimés, ou il est parlé des bains de Lucques” (p. 282). “Ce seroit chose trop 
longue”, avertit |’auteur des Discours viatiques” , 


de raconter touttes les antiquités qui se voyent 4a Rome, comme aussi les excellentes 
choses qui y ont esté nouvellement faictes par le pape Sixte Ve d’a present, 
lesquelles estant touttes rediggées par escrit, tant les antiquités comme aussi ce 
qui a esté faict de nouveau, je ne m’y arresteré plus longuement, joinct que seroit 
chose suffisant pour amplir ung gros volume. (p. 171). 


A Pavie, il s’était déja dépéché cavaligrement envers son lecteur de I’ obligation 
de décrire: “Va veoir fra Leandro Alberto et ce qu’il en rapporte en son livre de 
la description de toute I’Italie” (p. 65)'°. La derniére page de son manuscrit, laissé 


9. Essais, Ill, 9, p. 985. Sur le sujet, précieuses analyses et références de L. Monga dans 
son édition du Voyage d’Italie et de Provence, p. 12-15. 


10. C’est encore de cet ouvrage que se réclament l’auteur du Voyage de Provence et d’Italie 


Le Voyage d’Italie, instrument de la connaissance de soi 93 


inachevé, ne contient pas moins de trois renvois au méme ouvrage, sur lequel finit 
par se reposer un voyageur dont l’énergie narrative parait désormais €puisée. 

Mais nos voyageurs, exploitant les guides les plus autorisés, continuent de s’en 
laisser compter par eux, accueillant docilement les étymologies fantaisistes qu’ils 
leur proposent: “Vercelles, dicte selon ayans ainsy de la “celle de Venus” ou 
“Novare, dicte sita nova ara”''. En revanche, leur esprit critique s’exerce 
davantage aux dépens des légendes ou des bourdes que débitent les guides qu’ils 
rencontrent”?; toutefois l’auteur des Discours viatiques ne parait pas douter d’avoir 
vu a Pise“les cendres du pére de Julles César”'’ et notre voyageur de 1606 parait 
avoir pris prés de Modéne pour argent comptant (p.54) la légende du tableau de 
Pietro da Coreggio pour lequel a été refusée une offre fabuleuse, et ceci en dépit 
de la mise en garde de Villamont: “Dans toutes les villes, il y a toujours quelque 
tableau dont un voyageur a voulu donner autant de pistoles qu’il en pourrait tenir 
dessus; de ce tableau on a voulu donner son pesant d’or: c’est toujours la méme 
histoire.” (Voyages, 230a). Mais souvent ils usent des resources stylistiques offertes 
par les indéfinis pour exprimer leur défiance devant des assertions qui leur paraissent 
suspectes: “on nous montra”, “on nous asseura”, “aucuns disent”; “les autres ...”"*. 
De ce gout pour l’expérience, pour le regard critique, pour la pratique de ce que 
Montaigne venait d’appeler I’ “art de conferer” (Essais, III, 8), l’ anonyme auteur 
du voyage de 1606 fournit une heureuse expression spéculaire quand, a Bologne, 
il célébre sur le mode lyrique la supériorité des académies qui s’y multiplient sur 
les connaissances “apprises et pratiquées scholastiquement (qu’on appelle a la 
pedantesque et aux escolles” (p. 57). On peut considérer qu’a cette date se 
rencontrent, éparpillés sans doute, tous les éléments pour un discours de la méthode 
du voyageur, auquel concourent guides et récits quand ils lui proposent des voies 
qui tracent aussi pour lui les chemins de la connaissance. 


* * * *K 


(p. 62) et celui du Voyage d’Italie(1606) 
11. Discours viatiques, p. 55 et 56, exploitant Leandro Alberti. 


12. Ils soupconnent vite les limites de leur savoir. De son maitre, le secrétaire de Montaigne 
écrit: “de vivre a la merci d’un belitre de guide, il y sentait une grande incommodité” (Journal 
de voyage, p. 114). 


13. Elles lui sont montrées “en un coing du Dome, dedans ung vaze sur une colonne” (p. 
84 et n. 242) par un guide autodidacte et illettré... Il est vrai que, selon Pline (VII, 181), 
le pére de César était mort 4 Pise et que Pflaumern (Mercurius Italicus, 1625) évoquera 
lui aussi cette “particullarité”. 


14. A noter que les miracles échappent généralement a cette inquisition critique. Sauf, bien 
sir, chez les libertins et les réformés: J.-J. Bouchard, devant la liquéfaction du sang de saint 
Janvier 4 Naples (Voyages, éd. E. Kanceff, p. 199-202 et 435-436), avant Addison, 1722 
(“C’est un tour le plus grossier que j’aie jamais vu”). 


94 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


L’altérité italienne échappe d’autant moins a nos voyageurs qu’ils disposent 
déja, 4 leur entrée dans la péninsule, d’amples informations sur un pays dont ils 
parlent généralement la langue et que courent depuis quelque temps sur le compte 
de leurs voisins d’innombrables lieux communs, vérités d’évidence distordues par 
le préjugé ou par les antipathies politiques et religieuses. Discerner les composantes 
de cette altérité conduirait ainsi 4 des développements, sur les realia et sur les images 
nationales, qui excéderaient le cadre de cette étude’’. En revanche, le séjour en 
Italie permet au Frangais de la fin du XVI siécle d’affirmer au contact de cet Autre 
Sa perception de sa propre identité, et de multiples maniéres. Quelques exemples 
seulement. 

“Arrigo Beyle milanese”: l’expérience des années vécues en Italie, le travail 
du souvenir, la répugnance que lui inspirait la France des restaurations bourbonnienne 
et louis-philipparde avaient amené Stendhal a proclamer ce changement d’identité. 
“Michel de Montaigne, romano”? Personne n’oserait le soutenir, pas méme lui, 
en dépit de |’attraction exercée par la Ville et de la bulle de citoyenneté qu’elle 
lui a accordée par privilége. Qui avait été témoin des bouleversements et des 
recompositions qui venaient d’affecter |’Europe, et qui profitait de la banalisation 
du passage en Italie, par les routes nouvelles du Mont-Cenis et du Simplon pouvait 
bien se sentir chez lui a Milan plutét qu’a Grenoble ou a Paris. II n’en allait pas 
de méme au XVI° siécle, quand tout voyage est aussi une expédition, quand toute 
frontiére franchie rappelle de mille fagons au voyageur qu’il a cessé d’étre chez 
lui. 

Libre aux philosophes Léry ou Montaigne de réver sur l’existence cannibale, 
voire 4 un Européen de partir pour Il’ Amérique et de s’y “ensauvager” effectivement 
en adoptant le mode de vie indigéne. La distance infinie entre les deux civilisations, 
la rupture représentée par le départ, l’obligation méme de survivre en un milieu 
radicalement différent peuvent conduire a chercher le salut dans de nouveaux 
comportements. Mais quand le Francais du XVI siécle s’engage en Italie, il entre 
dans un pays fraternellement différent et proche a la fois, dont les vicissitudes de 
l’histoire contemporaine ont fait un modéle culturel, une proie convoitée, un allié 
versatile en ses diverses composantes. Tout lui rappelle ainsi sonidentité nationale. 

Et d’abord des servitudes administratives doublées de tracasseries. A Ferrare, 
note Montaigne, “A toutes les portes des chambres de I’hétellerie, il y a écrit: 
Ricordati della bolletta” (p. 171-172): la fameuse “bollette” garantissant que le 
visiteur ne provient pas d’un lieu ov la peste a été signalée. Sans doute |’app 
réhension devant la contagion est également partagée, mais les étrangers font, comme 
il se doit, l’attention d’une surveillance plus suspicieuse. L’auteur des Discours 


15. Sur l’image des Italiens en France a la fin du XVI* siécle, consulter la thése récente 
de J. Balsamo, Les rencontres des Muses: italianisme et anti-italianisme dans les lettres 
Jrangaises de la fin du XVF siécle (Genéve, Slatkine, 1992). 


Le Voyage d’Italie, instrument de la connaissance de soi 95 


viatiques évoque, en prose et en vers, la “miserable quarantaine” qui attend ceux 
qui ne seraient pas pourvus d’un irréprochable document et se félicite d’y avoir 
échappé grace aux “bonnes bulles” dont il était pourvu: “Nous feusmes exemptz 
de ce delay, pour la seureté de noz bulles, et nous furent confirmees par le 
commissaire 4 ce depputé de son Altesse, qui confessa n’en avoir oncques veu de 
mieulx faites.” (p. 49). 

Quand bien méme leur perfection atteint 4 cette dimension esthétique, les bulles 
ne dispensent pas pour autant de devoir acquitter diverses taxes de police et la 
paronomase dont use le méme auteur pour évoquer le “general des bailleurs de 
beuvettes dit de bullettes” traduit éloquemment la contagion métonymique qui, dans 
ordre du réel, conduit du document sanitaire au laisser-passer accordé contre argent. 
Plus difficile donc au voyageur étranger d’oublier son origine quand il doit affronter 
un fonctionnaire “friand” de ses écus, qui use de tout son pouvoir pour le faire 
demeurer 1a et “pigliar un teston”. Une incommodité multipliée par le morcellement 
politique de I’Italie, ainsi que s’en plaint le voyageur de 1606 a son entrée dans 
le Milanais: 


Les gardes, encor qu’elles nous creussent au premier mot disants que nous n’avions 
aucune chose en nos valises qui deut douane, ne laisserent pas d’avoir une couple 
de reales de courtoisie passée en ordinaire et tournée en coustume aux estrangers, 
par toute l’Italie on peut s’eschaper 4 toutes entrées et issues de villes avec subside 
qu’ilz appellent ben andata, miz sus par le charlatanisme et importunité”. (p. 44) 


A son entrée dans les états pontificaux, prés de Bologne, il lui faudra encore 
passer “par les impudentes mains des gabeleurs, cette sorte de larrons impunys” 
A qui il doit “jetter l’os a la gorge a cause de l’incivilité de leur abord.” (p. 54) 

La troisiéme épreuve, elle aussi passablement attendue, confirmatrice d’identité 
nationale, se vita l’heure du change: elle suscite moins de récriminations, peut-€tre 
parce qu’elle parait plus légitime et qu’elle n’est l’ oeuvre que de personnes privées. 
Plus aisée a surmonter également: il suffit, déclare l’anonyme de 1606, de se munir 
de doublons d’Espagne, qui ont cours partout, et de discuter ferme sur les prix 
réclamés et les prestations fournies: pour un touriste, c’est “matiére de bréviaire”. 

C’est le lot, dira-t-on, de tout visiteur étranger. Mais le Francais, si curieux 
soit-il de moeurs pérégrines ou si désireux de quitter quelque temps un quotidien 
décevant, trouve aisément sur le sol italien de quoi lui rappeler les fortunes diverses 
de sa nation qui, dans la premiére moitié du siécle, y conduisit tant d’expéditions 
militaires. A Pavie, Montaigne fait un détour “pour voir la plaine ow 1’on dit que 
l’armée du roi Francois I*' fut défaite” , mais surtout pour y admirer “la Chartreuse, 
qui passe avec raison pour une trés belle église” (p. 361). Rien sur Marignan, ou 
il couche cependant le 24 octobre 1581, ni sur Fornoue, ov il avait dormi la veille, 
et oui il n’est question que des mécomptes du visiteur avec ses hotes. Feinte 
indifférence ou confirmation du désir de prendre du champ vis-a-vis des choses 
de France? Ses contemporains paraissent beaucoup plus intéressés: si l’auteur du 


96 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


voyage de 1606 ne dit rien de Pavie, qui est pourtant sur sa route, il célébre Fornoue 
et Charles VIII “combatant tres valeureusement de sa persone contre toutes les forces 
d’ Italie assemblées pour lui empescher le passage” (p. 52) et “Marignan, ville titrée 
de marquisat, mais plus encore de la bataille gagnée par le grand Roy Frangois 
sur les Suisses” et médite sur l’issue du conflit, s’interroge: “Dois-je plaindre la 
France d’avoir fait perte d’une telle piece?” Il impute la perte aux inconséquences 
de la politique de sa nation, se demande s’il serait bien sage de recommencer 
l’aventure et révéle en conclusion le prix le plus amer de la défaite des siens: 
“seulement que |’Espagnol nostre ennemy ne le tint pas, il me suffiroit” (p. 51). 
L’auteur des Discours viatiques ne se satisfait pas de cette pesée politique et confére 
a son évocation de Milan une coloration plus affective, en s’adressant a son présumé 
narrataire: 


Amy, sy tu fais oncques le voiage, je t’adverty de monter aussy hault que nous 
y feusmes, affin que tu voies la citadelle et dessuz et dessoubz, des plus fortes 
que tu as jamais veue, et en la voyant ne retiens tes larmes pour une telle perte 
que nous avons faicte, et sy c’est peché que de desirer, peche en desirant le 
recouvrement d’une sy belle et grande ville. (p. 57) 


A Pavie, il s’arréte devant “les sepulchres d’aulcuns notables seigneurs qui 
... estoient mortz au service de sa Majesté Chrestienne” et traduit une épitaphe a 
leur mémoire’®. 

D’évidence, pour les uns et les autres, la blessure est trop grave et trop récente 
pour pouvoir étre oubliée tout a fait: de crainte d’essuyer un refus des Espagnols”’, 
le jeune noble de 1606 renonce 4 demander 4 visiter le chateau Sforza, qui 
commande la possession de Milan, et s’excuse auprés de ses lecteurs avec le 
proverbe: “Ce que coeur ne voit, coeur ne décrit” (p. 49). 

Hommis ces hauts lieux ov s’est joué le destin de la présqence francaise en Italie, 
tant d’autres sites sont 14 pour rappeler au visiteur le statut de sa nation et de ses 
représentants. Si les Espagnols se montrent assez courtois 4 Naples (Discours 
viatiques, p. 110-111), ils n’en interdisent pas moins I’accés a Gaetta: “le roy 
d’Espaigne y fait faire une garde fort exacte et n’y entrent gueres d’estrangiers” 
(Voyage de Provence et d’Italie, p. 78). L’auteur des Discours viatiques confirme 
une prohibition si entiére (p. 88) que les visiteurs de 1606 se contenteront de voir 
“Gaiette a trois milles” (Voyage d’Italie, p. 77) et que lui-méme avait da, de plus 


16. Curieusement, évoquant Richard, duc de Suffolk, mort au service de Francois I*, il 
omet l’épithéte de “tyran” que le texte latin appliquait 4 Henri VIII et, en compensation, 
A propos de l’auteur de l’épitaphe, Charles Parker, qu’Elizabeth avait expulsé d’ Angleterre, 
affuble la reine d’un “inique” aksent de l’original (p. 64). 


17. Visitant Milan en 1600, le duc de Rohan avait di se déclarer Lorrain pour obtenir de 
le visiter: “comme Francois, il est tres difficile et presque impossible de la voir, a cause 
que les Espagnols craignent plus ce nom qu’ils ne l’ayment” (Voyage ... faict enl’an 1600, 
Amsterdam, 1646, p. 42). 


Le Voyage d’Italie, instrument de la connaissance de soi 97 


, essuyer des affronts: “nous trouvasmes une compagnie d’Espagnolz qui s’en alloient 
a Gaiette, desquelz nous receumes beaucoup d’indignités de parolles, nous appellans 
Luteriens et aultres injures” (Discours viatiques, p. 88). 

Il n’est guére qu’une seule ville ou s’abolissent les identités nationales, ot ne 
s’escomptent point les ressentiments accumulés par les guerres d’Italie: Rome, patria 
comunis, “ville metropolitaine de toutes les nations Chrestiennes” (Montaigne, Essais 
, Ill, 9, p. 997). Tous nos visiteurs s’y trouvent chez eux en raison d’une double 
appartenance: leur foi chrétienne et leur statut d’héritiers de la romanité. C’est 
ace sentiment profond, autant qu’a la curiosité légitime de découvrir enfin une 
ville incomparable qu’il faut rapporter leur impatience d’arriver 4 Rome, autant 
que l’émotion qui les étreint lorsqu’ils la découvrent. Montaigne, bien str, qui, 
pour y arriver plus tot, se leva “trois heures avant le jour, tant il avait envie de 
voir le pavé de Rome” (p. 187). Mais aussi l’auteur des Discours viatiques qui, 
‘“nour y arriver plustost”, quitte Sienne et brile les étapes en une haletante 
chevauchée touristico-narrative'’, et celui du Voyage d’Italie (1606) qui laisse libre 
cours 4 son enthousiasme quand il découvre “la fameuse Rome”: “Qui est celuy 
qui ne tressaillit de joye et ne rende graces 4 Dieu, se voyant a chef d’un grand 
voyage arrivé au desiré lieu ov il vouloit parvenir?” (p. 72) 

Mais c’est Montaigne qui, involontairement sans doute, révéle l’impossibilité 
pour le Francais d’oublier en Italie son identité nationale. Méme a Rome, ot il 
pourrait se fondre dans la masse des citoyens de la double Ville, antique et 
chrétienne, il lui faut rencontrer partout des témoins de ses origines: le secrétaire 
vient a peine de narrer |’arrivée ov ils sont bien logés et dont son maitre dira tout 
a l’heure qu’elle “lui représentait plus Paris que nulle autre ot il eat jamais été”, 
qu’il en découvre la premiére tare: M. de Montaigne se fachait d’y trouver si grand 
nombre de Francais qu’il ne trouvait en la rue quasi personne qui ne le saluat en 
sa langue” (p. 189). Une “incommodité” qui égale Rome a Padoue (p. 160) et 
lui interdit de satisfaire pleinement la soif de nouveauté qu’il confiera bient6t aux 
Essais: “Je pérégrine trés saoul de nos fagons, non pour chercher des Gascons en 
Sicile, j’en ai assez laissé au logis; je cherche des Grecs, plutét, et des Persans”. 
(III, 9: p. 986) Comment peut-on ne pas étre Frangais? Ou, surtout? A Cracovie, 
peut-étre, “s’il eat été seul avec les siens” (Journal de voyage, p. 153). Cette 
hypothése du secrétaire, alors que Montaigne vient d’entrer en Italie et se dispose, 


18. Elle vaut d’étre citée: “Le 22 novembre, “nous partismes de Sienne pour suivre notre 
chemin de Rome, d’ou, pour y arriver plus tost, les sieurs de la Vofve et Vandancourt 
coururent la poste, avec lesquelz nous, passé Lusignano, Bon Couvent, disné 4 Coueris, 
souppé 4 la Paille, le jour d’aprés disné 4 Sainct Laurens, passé en poste avec les sieurs 
du Fresnoy et Le Febvre Dourcello, veu son lacq long de douze mil, couru le long de 
Montefiascon jusques 4 Viterbe, 1a couché, et le jeudy matin, veu ses fontaines, passé le 
mont difficile, disné 4[ ] et souppé 4 Baccan, ot ma ceinture fut perdue et notre chambre 
fort mouillée de la pluye et du vent qui dura toute nuict, enfin nous arrivasmes 4 Rome” 


(p. 85). 


98 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


aprés tant d’autres, a prendre la route de Rome, qu’il desirait d’autant moins voir 
que les autres lieux, qu’elle était connue d’un chacun” (p. 154), éclaire sur le statut 
trés particulier du voyage en Italie aux temps modernes. Comme tout autre voyage, 
sans doute, ils satisfait un appétit raisonnable de nouveauté et contribue, comme 
il lui est demandé de le faire, par la legon et l’exemple des pédagogues du temps, 
4 la formation morale et intellectuelle. Mais en méme temps il est vécu sur le mode 
du ressourcement, du pélerinage, de la confirmation, dans l’acception quasi 
sacramentelle de ce terme: la perception et la prise en charge, par un individu 
désormais autonome, d’une identité culturelle non choisie, conférée par la naissance 
et l'éducation. Dans ces années ot Montaigne, séjournant en Italie, s’irrite de voir 
qu’il est “bonnetté” comme Francais — et ne peut s’empécher de reconnaitre qu’il 
l’est —, en dépit de la distance qu’il souhaitait prendre avec son pays'’, s’impose, 
grace aux traces littéraires de l’aventure brésilienne de la France, la découverte 
de moeurs radicalement “estranges”, de “facons de vivres merveilleusement distantes 
de la nétre”. Et l’auteur des Essais caresse une réverie cannibale, cependant que 
Léry, vingt ans aprés son retour, s’enchante encore au souvenir des rythmes et des 
coutumes des Tupinamba dont il partagea l’existence. L’ Italie ne saurait ouvrir au 
concept de la différence. Elle répond tout a fait 4 la fonction que Claudel assignera 
a l’église de Rome: catholique, elle réunit”, 4 la double enseigne de |’ Urbs et 
de la Papauté, des singularités nationales qu’elle tente d’accorder dans un jeu 
complexe d’équilibre des pouvoirs. Une et diverse: ainsi le veut l’idéal de la Contre- 
Réforme et |’affirmation contemporaine d’une anthropologie sensible 4 la “diversité 
des habits”, de tempéraments nationaux, voire “d’antipathies” explicables par la 
théorie des climats”, en ses multiples versions. 


* * * * * 


Si l’approche praxéologique ouvre avant tout, pour le voyageur francais en 
Italie, sur une confirmation de sa propre identité, si elle ne lui révéle pas d’autre 
altérité que celle de ce voisin proche par la culture, a la fois admiré et jalousé, on 
peut s’attendre a ce qu’elle ne débouche pas sur un bouleversement axiologique. 
Et c’est bien ce qui advient. 

Franchir les monts ne fournit pas 4 Montaigne, Villamont et aux autres, 
l’occasion de ces remises en cause qu’imposait, depuis un siécle, le spectacle, par 
exemple, de l’altérité amérindienne. Aucune de ces sommations 4 |’ introspection 
culturelle que représentaient le spectacle de la nudité ou de l’anthropophagie rituelle, 


19. Dans les jugements portés par Montaigne au cours de son voyage, se mélait, selon le 
secrétaire, “un peu de passion du mépris de son pays, qu’il avait 4 haine et 4 contrecoeur 
pour autres considérations” (p. 114). L’auteur des Essais sera plus explicite en 1588, quand 
il €voquera sa “disconvenance aux moeurs présentes de notre état” et les “démembrements 
de la France et divisions ot nous sommes tombés.” (III, 9) 


20. Soulier de satin, Wl, 1. 


Le Voyage d’Italie, instrument de la connaissance de soi 99 


et auxquelles Montaigne lui-méme avait répondu sans réticence, dans les deux 
chapitres “Des Cannibales” et “Des coches”. Pas méme les interrogations moins 
radicales, mais inconfortables tout de méme, auxquelles conviaient les relations 
de voyage dans |’empire ottoman, quand elles révélaient dans |’ Infidéle séculairement 
détesté et combattu, des vertus de tolérance et de charité, l’existence d’une police 
civile 4 laquelle n’atteignaient qu’imparfaitement les Etats les plus modernes de 
l’occident chrétien. Seuls les polémistes réformés pouvaient assurer qu’un honnéte 
luthérien ou anglican revenait d’Italie “diavolo incarnato”, ou que “cheval ni homme 
/ne s’amende d’aller A Rome” (H. Estienne). Pour 1’essentiel, le voyageur francais 
rentrait chez lui plus convaincu de la vérité de sa foi (catholique ou non, d’ ailleurs), 
plus assuré de son identité nationale. A peine avait-il abandonné au passage quelques 
unes des idées recues les plus paresseuses qui couraient sur le compte de ces Italiens 
dont il avait, au contraire, apprécié en général |’ affabilité envers les étrangers, |’ art 
de vivre, cette civilité que lui prénaient Castiglione ou Guazzo. 

Est-ce 4 dire qu’il rentrait chez lui n’ayant, 4 l’exemple futur des émigrés de 
la contre-Révolution, rien oublié et rien appris? Ce n’est pas tout a fait exact. Il 
a voyagé, non contraint par les é6vénements, mais de son propre chef; il a accompli 
le programme de formation qu’il s’était fixé; comptons ici pour rien le plaisir procuré 
par son exécution. Mais les principaux enseignements que lui aura apportés ce 
voyage sont de l’ordre de la confirmation, de l’affinement d’un savoir préexistant. 

Au point, parfois, de ne pas se donner la peine de le consigner. Qu’a bien 
pu apprendre, sur le sujet de la foi, l’Italie de la Contre-Réforme 4 certains de ces 
voyageurs que 1’on devine catholiques intransigeants, suspects méme de fidélités 
ou d’accointances ligueuses? L’anonyme voyageur de Provence et d’Italie (1588- 
1589) refuse de décrire Rome. Certes, des guides y pourvoient: mais n’est-ce pas 
aussi parce que sa foi ne s’en est trouvée ni changée ni approfondie? II est attentif 
a la diversité des costumes, qu’il découvre, et ne nous laisse rien ignorer de leur 
bigarrure. Mais il ne nous livre aucun commentaire moral et, s’il décrit avec 
précision la suite pontificale dans certaines cérémonies, évite de nous entretenir 
de la personne du chef de la chrétienté. Pour notre bonheur, Montaigne sera moins 
réticent a le faire et ne cachera pas |’admiration qu’il vous a un pape grand batisseur 
et sage administrateur ... tout en réservant aux Essais sa réprobation devant la 
réforme du calendrier entreprise par le méme Grégoire XIII. Le statut des juifs, 
généralement toléré dans la péninsule, a frappé des voyageurs appartenant a un 
royaume qui les a chassés depuis longtemps, mais 4 titre de curiosité, et sans que 
l’ observation débouche sur une interrogation plus profonde; il est toutefois légitime 
de penser que |’intérét porté par Montaigne a leur présence et a leurs cérémonies 
correspond a une perception plus fine du statut qui leur est fait dans |’occident 
chrétien. 

Une Italie plus cérémonieuse que dévotieuse, des églises ot se donnent des 
rendez-vous, ow l’on bavarde pendant les offices: tout cela est bien connu, mais 
noté comme en passant, signe parmi d’autres de superficialité, sans que soit jamais 


100 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


posée la question de la conciliation du paganisme renaissant et de la dévotion contre- 
réformée. Toutefois, Villamont voit bien l’intérét argumentatif que présente Notre- 
Dame de Lorette pour les controverses qui agitent alors la Chrétienté: “Que diray 
je plus de ce sainct et admirable lieu (sinon qu’il s’y faict chaque jour des miracles 
quasi incroyables) et principalement a eux qui se devoyans de |’Eglise, ne croyent 
l’intercession des saincts, et de la Vierge sacrée: lesquels s’ils avoient visité ce sainct 
lieu, a adventure changeroient ils d’opinion, quelque cceur obstiné qu’ ils aient” 
(73a). 

Une authentique spiritualité tridentine affleure parfois sous une plume inattendue: 
celle de cet anonyme auteur de 1606, qui voyage pour son plaisir en compagnie 
de jeunes gens de sa condition, qui est sujet aux étourderies ou aux fanfaronnades 
de son age, mais que certains spectacles éveillent 4 de plus graves considérations: 
la vue des corps “non encore du tout degelés” qu’il observe a la chapelle des Transis, 
en franchissant le Mont-Cenis (p. 39) lui est “image de la mort et miroir de nostre 
cheftivité humaine”: memento mori que ne lui fera oublier qu’en partie la descente 
échevelée du col, ot il découvrira avec humilité les risques inconsidérés pris en 
cette occasion. C’est encore lui qui, rendu 4 Milan, se livrera a un vif éloge du 
cardinal Borromée, que toute la ville révére: “Voila comment les amys de Dieu 
sont exaltés, sa haute majesté se complaisant d’estre louée et beniste en ses saincts. ” 
(46) Un éloge qui est loin d’étre de circonstance puisque c’est a propos de 1’ Hotel- 
Dieu que le cardinal avait fait batir 4 Milan que notre jeune auteur se lance dans 
un hymne 4 la charité un peu ampoulé peut-étre, mais dont la sincérité ne parait 
pas douteuse. Plus loin, les nombreuses inscriptions qu’il rencontre sur la via Appia 
lui inspirent ce commentaire: 


Je ne scay pourquoy les anciens eslisoient ainsy leurs sepultures sur les chemins, 
sice n’est par vanité et desir affecté de renommée et conservation de la memoire 
de leur nom. S’ilz avoient esté chrestiens, je ne m’en esbahirois pas tant, car on 
pourroit croire que ¢’auroit esté afin d’emporter une priere et souhait chrestien 
de bon repos, ou bien pour doner avis aux vivants et les faire ressouvenir qu’ilz 
ne sont que viateurs ence monde, n’ayants a se reposer sinon en la mort en laquelle 
est le repos appellé Patria; mais que ... nous allons toute nostre vie a la mort, 
esperants de revenir en vie pour resusciter en estat bien-heureux. (p. 77) 


On ne trouve pas de semblables accents chez les voyageurs francais contempo- 
rains. Est-ce 4 dire pourtant que la rencontre de la vertu chrétienne de charité telle 
que |’exprimaient certaines institutions italiennes n’a éveillé aucun écho chez eux? 
La réponse n’est pas assurée, et il faut en rendre responsable le satut incertain de 
ces textes dont on ne sait trrop s’ils étaient destinés 4 la publication ou s’ils 
constituaient de simples carnets de route, en vue d’une réélaboration ultérieure, 
4 des fins domestiques ou publiques. A défaut de commentaires axiologiques 
explicites, l’intérét porté par le voyageur a ces institutions est révélateur: si notre 
anonyme de 1606 consacre une bonne vingtaine de lignes 4 décrire le fonctionnement 
du mont-de piété de Naples, qu’il juge “admirable”, confirmant en cela le regard 


Le Voyage d’Italie, instrument de la connaissance de soi 101 


qu’il avait porté sur l’Hotel-Dieu de Milan, le méme espace est accordé par 
l’anonyme qui visite Boulogne en 1589 (p. 99-100) aux quatre “Monti di pieta” 
institués en cette ville “pour le soulagement des pauvres”: “occasion, estime-t-il, 
pourquoy il se trouve fort peu de pauvres, nonobstant que la ville soit grande et 
peuplée”: cette conclusion vaut bien une épithéte laudative, semble-t-il. Ajoutons 
que de telles observations invitent 4 nuancer fortement le reproche de superficialité 
qui est fait par les voyageurs, francais, notamment, aux pratiques religieuses de 
I’Italie. 

La méme gravité transparait dans les commentaires inspirés par le spectacle 
de la vie politique de la péninsule. Mais il est rare qu‘elle s’épanouisse en discours 
suivis: une discrétion que peuvent expliquer la prudence politique et des égards 
diplomatiques pour des états amis régis par des familles alliées 4 la monarchie 
francaise. L’auteur du Voyage de Provence et d’Italie, qui visite Venise au 
printemps de 1589 évoque longuement (p. 105-108) les institutions de la République 
dont il souligne, en l’exagérant sans doute, la qualité démocratique: une aspiration 
égalitaire que l’on peut rapporter, avec prudence, aux sympathies ligueuses d’un 
familier des Guises. Mais plus généralement, ce qui retient l’attention des voyageurs, 
c’est le crépuscule des libertés communales en Italie. Un pareil intérét permettrait 
peut-étre de taxer d’inconséquence les fidéles sujets d’une monarchie frangaise qui, 
en dépit des troubles civils et religieux, évolue résolument vers l’absolutisme. Ce 
serait oublier que sur la ruine de ces démocraties locales s’installent des principats 
ou prédomine |’influence du rival espagnol et que nos voyageurs ont re¢u une culture 
humaniste qui exaltait les vertus républicaines des cités antiques. Si, de passage 
a Sienne, l’anonyme voyageur de 1606 se contente de noter que la ville est “rengée 
A present et assujettie de bon gré 4 Florence qui la domine doucement” (p. 70), 
avant d’évoquer la résistance tenace des “anciennes familles” de Pise, Montaigne, 
tout en confirmant cette modération du pouvoir florentin, évoque 4 Sienne “les 
anciennes marques et devise de cette ville, qui sonnent partout Liberté” (Journal 
de voyage, p. 184). Mais en dépit de cette sympathie perceptible pour les valeurs 
vaincues, il ne sera pas dupe du cérémonial dérisoire auquel recourent les Lucquois 
quand ils célébrent des institutions républicaines désormais vidées de leur contenu. 
L’anonyme visiteur de 1589 estime, lui, qu’il “y a grande différence” entre Sienne, 
ou l’on voit “escrit Libertas” sur les portes de la ville et des palais, mais qui paie 
tribut 4 Florence, et Lucques, dispensée de toute redevance a l’étranger. (Voyage 
de Provence et d’Italie, p. 57). Cette derniére est pour lui “republicque et en la 
protection de roy Philippe” (p. 55): affirmation dépourvue de commentaire et qui, 
dans sa candeur, permet de prendre mesure de ce que vaut cette liberté-la. Au total, 
des observations éparses mais qui convergent néanmoins vers une irrécusable 
conclusion: I’Italie de la fin du XVI° siécle vit 4 l’heure espagnole. Une raison 
suffisante pour que le Francais ne se sente pas tout a fait 4 domicile chez le voisin 
transalpin, qu’il y éprouve mieux la réalité de son étre national et de ce qui le 
distingue du rival encombrant. 


102 MICHEL BIDEAUX 


Face a tant d’observations recuites, 4 des visites qui ne donnent lieu qu’a des 
transcriptions oiseuses, les analyses consacrées par nos voyageurs 4 une meilleure 
connaissance de |’autre et de soi-méme paraitront peut-étre légéres de substance. 
Ce serait oublier que ce siécle, aprés avoir disposé tous les termes de |’ addition, 
n’est pas toujours soucieux de tirer la somme, que Montaigne lui-méme n’est pas 
Montesquieu. Perdre de vue aussi les modes d’énonciation de la plupart de ces 
récits: carnets de notes plutét que textes achevés, narrations abrégées par une 
circonstance imprévue (l’élection de Montaigne a la mairie de Bordeaux) ou 
abandonnées pour une raison qui nous échappe. 

S’ils nous paraissent si souvent se répéter; c’est, bien sir, parce qu’ils portent 
sur le méme objet, mais c’est, bien davantage, parce que les voies de connaissance 
qu’ils préconisent conduisent a une perception globalisante de cet objet. Montaigne, 
lui-méme, malgré son penchant pour les parcours 4 “sauts et gambades”, pour les 
”gaillardes escapades, ne s’écarte pas sensiblement des itinéraires majeurs et se 
trouve amené, quoi qu’il en ait, 4 mettre ses pas dans ceux de ses devanciers. “Je 
sais bien ce que je fuy, mais non pas ce que je cerche”: cette autre formule illustre 
de l’art de voyager de Montaigne (Essais, II], 9, p. 972), en revanche, situe mieux 
son originalité, du moins dans son propos. Alors que ses contemporains sont en 
quéte d’une Italie si désirée et déja passablement connue d’eux, quand enfin ils ont 
accompli le pélerinage, c’est de leur spécificité nationale qu’ils ont pris une plus 
juste mesure: sur les fragments de l’oecuméne humaniste éclaté on développe le 
sentiment d’une appartenance nationale qui paraissait appelée a se dissoudre sur 
les routes de I’Italie. 


Université Paul-Valéry, Montpellier 


EUGENE TESELLE 


Looking for Home: 
Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 


Wandering, homecoming, exile, journey are pervasive metaphors in Augustine’s 
writings. He did not romanticize them. He did not even say much about his actual 
journeys. Travel, by either land or sea, was usually an uncomfortable necessity 
in his day, undertaken not for its own sake but to arrive at the destination.’ It 
could encompass the activities of kidnappers and slave-traders, as we learn from 
one of the recently discovered letters of Augustine.” Precisely because of its 
discomforts and hazards travel was a source of readily understood metaphors. They 
are integral to the presentation of his own journey in the Confessions and elsewhere. 
But they also belong to his understanding of the Christian life. And they are 
fundamental to his theory of finite being in all its modalities. Let us consider these 
in sequence. 


I. AUGUSTINE’S JOURNEY 


For Augustine and his world the term “conversion” was primarily positive, a 
turning toward, and specifically toward God. It was a turning toward something 
worth having, a “supreme value” we would say today, which promised to be the 
source of happiness. Thus a self-reference was also involved—there was sometbing 
in it for oneself, too.* It was like finding a home, or coming into port, or getting 


1. See Othmar Perler, Les voyages de saint Augustin (Paris: Etudes Augustiniennes, 1969), 
pp. 25-115, for the kinds of routes, means of transport, weather conditions and times of 
year, dangers, and accommodations along the way—and Augustine’s use of various details 
as metaphors, especially in his sermons. 


2. Ep. 10* in the collection newly edited by Divjak (CSEL 88). The following abbreviations 
of the works of Augustine are used in this article: C. Ac.: Contra Academicos (CC 29), 
De b.v.: De beata vita (CC 29); De cat. rud.: De catechizandis rudibus (CC 46); De civ. 
Dei: De civitate Dei (CC 47-48); Conf.: Confessiones (CC 27); De Gen. c. Man.: De Genesi 
contra Manichaeos (PL 34); De ord.: De ordine (CC 29); De Trin.: De Trinitate (CC 50- 
50A); De mor.: De moribus (PL 32); De ver. rel.: De vera religione (CC 32); En. Ps.: 
Enarrationes in Psalmos (CC 38-40); Ep.: Epistolae (CSEL 34, 44, 57, 58, 88); In Io. ev.: 
In Iohannis evangelium (CC 36); Serm.: Sermones (PL 38-39); Serm. Den.: Sermones a 
M. Denis editi (MA 1); Sol.: Soliloquiae (CSEL 89). 


3. “We all desire happiness,” he said, following Cicero. And happiness must mean having 
what is worth having, and being secure about one’s situation (De mor. I, iii, 4). See Harald 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


104 Eugene TeSelle 


to one’s true country. But his voyage toward the haven of “philosophy” (De b. 
v. i, 1; C. Ac. II, i, 1) or “wisdom” (C. Ac. II, ii, 2) was a confused one. There 
were, as R. A. Markus says, “other ports of call” along the way.* 

In reflecting on the various ways in which people move toward the haven, 
Augustine comments that some sail tranquilly toward it; some wander far from the 
shoreline and are blown off course but then find the way once again. But there 
is a third kind of voyage, and Augustine classifies himself here, among those who 
remember their homeland, who know very well about it, are not blown off course 
by violent storms, but still delay, because they have been gazing at the stars, 
wandering in the mists, hearing the enticements of sirens (De b. v. i, 2).° 

How, then, did he get back on course? The story is told in two short narra- 
tives written a few months after what we call the conversion (De b. v. 1, 4-6; C. 
Ac. II, ii, 5), and at much greater length eleven years later in the Confessions. 

Several major factors appear in succession. In his nineteenth year, Augustine 
says, he read Cicero’s Hortensius and was aroused to the life of philosophy, which, 
as we know, means the quest for wisdom. This, he suggests, is the moment when 
he stood up straight—became autonomous, the modern world would put it—and 
stopped bending his neck to the yoke of authority.° Throughout his career 
Augustine will evoke the restless and indeterminate quest of the human spirit, traced 
so well by Blondel and a host of twentieth-century Catholic philosophers: a quest 
that is restless—but indeterminate, able to rest on any object.’ 

Convinced that he should follow the path of reason, he turned away from the 
authoritarianism of the Catholic Church of North Africa.’ He fell in with the 


Hagendahl, Augustine and the Latin Classics (Goteborg: Acta Universitatis Gothoburgensis, 
1867), pp. 486-97. 


4. R.A. Markus, Conversion and Disenchantment in Augustine’s Spiritual Career, Saint 
Augustine Lecture 1984 (Villanova: Villanova University Press, 1989), p. 6. 


5. Travel metaphores and geographical allusions abound in a poem addressed to Augustine 
by his pupil Licentius, who was associated with Augustine in the months following his 
conversion. The most recent scholarly discussion is Danuta Shanzer, “‘Arcanus Varronis 
iter’: Licentius’s Verse Epistle to Augustine,” Revue des études augustiniennes, XXXVI 
(1991), 110-143. 


6. Robert J. O’Connell, S.J., “On Augustine’s ’First Conversion’: Factus Erectior (De Beata 
Vita 4),” Augustinian Studies 17 (1986) 15-29 highlights this phrase in Augustine’s 
autobiographical account. O’Connell shows that the term is used in a positive way, as 
representing a step forward, for it has resonances with Psalm 144:14 and with the parable 
of the Prodigal Son. 


7. In the famous passage at the beginning of the Confessions, we must emphasize the 
statement “Our hearts are restless,” then the conclusion, “until they rest in you.” It is never 
self-evident that “You have made us for yourself.” Similarly he talks about “loving love, 
seeking something to love” (Conf. III, i, 1); if there was a desire for God, it would be only 
implicit. 


8. He speaks of superstitio in several autobiographical passages (De b. v. i, 4; De util. cred. 





Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 105 


| Manichaeans, who claimed to base their religion on reason rather than authority. 
_ Eventually he was led to question this metaphysics (more accurately, this myth 
masquerading as science) under the influence of the Academics, who questioned 
all claims to certain knowledge and thought of life as a series of ventures in which 
we must act on the basis of probability. First excessive expectations, then a 
sobering. These are predictable features of the quest for wisdom. 

Like Aeneas fleeing Dido, Augustine left his mother in Carthage and sailed 
to Rome.’ After a year he went to Milan—recommended by Symmachus, the last 
great champion of Roman paganism (Conf. V, xiii, 23). Thus he lent himself to 
the resistance to Catholic Christianity, even as it was being given the weight of 
law by the emperor Theodosius. Physically he had been traveling north; now he 
looked north figuratively, too. In Milan, he says, he began to learn about a more 
credible guide, a Big Dipper which would point to the Polestar (De b.v. i, 4). Soon 
after the events he emphasizes three things: conversations with the bishop Ambrose, 
reading some “books of the Platonists,” and reading the apostle Paul (De b.v. i, 
4). This sequence corresponds roughly with books VI, VII, and VIII of the Confes- 
sions. The process took some time. Let us look at the major stages. 


1. ACKNOWLEDGING AUTHORITY. Augustine speaks of having been imbued with 
the Christian religion from infancy (C. Ac. II, ii, 5). He often mentions his 
disappointment that, in the writings of the philosophers, the name of Christ is not 
mentioned (Conf. Ill, iv, 8; VII, ix, 13-15). On arriving in Milan he paid a 
courtesy call to Ambrose, the bishop who had just been engaged in controversy 
with Symmachus, and Ambrose, he says, “received me like a father” (Conf. V, 
xiii, 23). He enrolled as a catechumen, having decided to adhere to Christianity 
unless or until something better appeared. 

We may consider these reliable autobiographical statements, for there is no 
reason for him to falsify the matter. He is acknowledging an arbitrary influence 
upon himself, sheer conditioning by his environment. And yet he turns it to 
advantage. He recognized, he says, the role of authority—auctoritas, which in 
Cicero meant relying on the word of those who had prior possession of the truth 
and knew better than oneself. 

But this by itself was not enough. It would have been a surrender to authority, 
good enough for simple believers but not for someone who had become inflamed 
with the philosophic quest. Authority and belief may be the way, but the goal is 
to possess truth through reason. Now another decisive factor enters the picture. 


i, 2). While the suggestion has given offense to some readers, he is probably referring to 
Catholic Christianity. Relevant passages are discussed in James O’Donnell’s Confessions 
(Oxford: Clarendon, 1992), II, 175-77. 


9. The parallels with the Aeneid are discussed in O’Donovan, II, 307-8. 


106 Eugene TeSelle 


Augustine read what he calls “a few books of the Platonists,” and these certainly 
included several treatises from Plotinus’ Enneads. 


2. THE BOOKS OF THE PLATONISTS. To the scandal of many, the French scholar 
Alfaric commented that Augustine was converted not to Christianity but to 
Platonism.'’ Others, alarmed at this dramatic statement, have tried to rephrase 
it: perhaps he was converted to Christianity under Platonist auspices—and, 
conversely, to Platonism under Christian auspices.'' We know, in any case, that 
there was a “circle” of Platonists in Milan, and even Ambrose’s sermons in this 
very year of 386 were pervaded with Platonist themes. It might be most accurate 
to say that Augustine was converted first to Platonism, and then (some months or 
weeks later) to Christianity. The Christianity with which he grew up had been 
intellectually inadequate, driving him into a long detour; now he comes to see 
Christianity in a new light, thanks to the Platonism which he acquires along with 
It. 

But how? In the Confessions he evokes his experience on reading these “books 
of the Platonists” (Conf. VII, x, 16; xvii, 23; xx, 26). Perhaps misreading 
Plotinus, he expected a vision or contemplation which would give happiness or 
beatitude, not in a momentary or intermittent way, not under conditions beyond 
earthly life, but, ifall went as it should, onan everyday basis, a “life in happiness” 
because one’s consciousness would contantly be bathed in the divine light. What 
he hoped for was not ecstasy; Mandouze has coined the more accurate term “en- 
stasy.”'” This “life in happiness” would be both contemplative and active at 
once—an expectation that he would be “at home” within himself and dwell there 


with God. There is a parallel in Meister Eckhart’s bold declaration that the highest — 


life is represented not by Mary, who relaxed in contemplation, but by Martha, 
whose care for many things is approved as long as she remembers the “one thing 
necessary,” God and constant unity with God, even in the midst of activity. It is 
a noble aspiration—but for security and stability, not adventure and uncertainty. 

Augustine would remain convinced, throughout his lifetime, that the Platonist 
philosophers had glimpsed the goal and gained a fairly accurate perspective on it, 
though Biblical revelation is needed to correct them at some points. The difficulty 
is that the philosophers are not able to get there (Conf. VII, xxi, 27; De Trin. IV, 


10. Prosper Alfaric, L’Evolution intellectuelle de saint Augustin. I. [the only volume 
printed] Du manichéisme au néoplantonisme (Paris: E. Nourry, 1918), p. 399. 


11. The counter-attack was mounted by Charles Boyer, S.J., Christianisme et néoplatonisme 
dans la formation de saint Augustin (Paris: Beauchesne, 1920), and the controversy is 
summarized by Pierre Courcelle, Recherches sur les Confessions de saint Augustin (Paris: 
De Boccard, 1968), pp. 7-12. 


12. André Mandouze, Saint Augustin. L’Aventure de la raison et de la grace (Paris: Etudes 
Augustiniennes, 1968), pp. 690 ff. 








Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 107 


xvi, 21 - xvii, 23; In Ev. Io. 2, 2-4; De civ. Dei VIII, 10). That seems to have 
been his own experience at the time. “I babbled like an expert,” he says in looking 
back (Conf. VII, xx, 26). He thought of himself as part of a spiritual elite, one 
of those who have been seized by the quest for truth and must carry through with 
it (De ord. I, viii, 24; Sol. I, xiii, 23). But somehow—probably through failure 
to achieve a steady vision of the divine—he gained humility. “I learned the 
difference,” he says, “between presumption and confession” (Conf. VII, xx, 26). 
What he had achieved was onty a glimpsing, not a dwelling; but, as Evelyn 
Underhill paraphrases it, “The mystic need is for a Home, not for a Vision.”’* 
How was he to “raise anchor” and sail into the haven (De b. v. i, 4)? 


3. GETTING UNDER WAY. Augustine could have entered the church as an average 
Christian, through what A.D. Nock has termed “adhesion” rather than “conver- 
sion,”'* as many people were doing. That was all the more reason to become 
a Christian not conventionally but heroically; if he delayed it was precisely because 
of the heavy demands which he placed on himself.'* He would lead the celibate 
life—an ideal in which two traditions converged. The single, undistracted state 
was honored not only by fourth-century Christians but by philosophers as well. 
Augustine and his friends had already talked about living together in a life of 
contemplation, and the communities which he later established (first on the family 
farm in Tagaste in 388, then in the bishop’s residence in Hippo) were heavily 
influenced by the philosophic tradition (C. Ac. II, ii, 4; Sol. I, xii, 20; Conf. VI, 
xiv, 24). And yet he also used the language of the monastic movement, which 
characterized itself as “divine servitude” (servire Deo). It was a flowing together 
of the two streams, and the result was different from either one of them in 
isolation. 

A few years later it was through the monastic life that Augustine, against his 
intentions, stumbled into the clergy. He had avoided any place that was without 
a bishop, but when he came to Hippo Regius, whose bishop was aging, he was 
recognized and was forcibly detained to become a presbyter and bishop-designate. 
He would have preferred contemplation; now he assumes different responsibili- 
ties—to our benefit, for his public becomes much broader than the educated 
intellectuals for whom he had been writing, his interests more varied, his language 
more to the point. 


13. Evelyn Underhill, The Mystic Way: A Psychological Study in Christian Origins (London: 
J.M. Dent & Sons, 1913), p. 301, paraphrasing Confessiones VII, xx, 26. 


14. A. D. Nock, Conversion: The Old and the New in Religion from Alexander the Great 
to Augustine of Hippo (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1933), pp. 6-7. 


15. The point is made with special force by Mandouze, p. 176. 


108 Eugene TeSelle 


And so, by the time Augustine writes an account of himself in the Confessions 
eleven years later, there have been many discontinuities.'° There was discontinuity 
with his past. He was now a bishop, with new responsibilities. The Empire itself 
had undergone the political crisis of the 390s, the last pagan uprising, staged as 
a battle of the gods, and crushed under what seemed miraculous circumstances by 
Theodosius in the battle of the Frigidus. Pagan morale collapsed. Soon Theodosius 
and his sons will ban sacrifices, smash idols, and convert temples into churches.’ 

Thus Augustine, only eleven years later, is living in a different world and 
playing a different role. The Confessions do not merely narrate his past but 
contend with it, offering better and wiser interpretations, debating with himself and 
refuting himself just as he refuted his opponents in more public debates—and, in 
the process, instructing and exhorting others by leading them through his own self- 
criticism. 

There was also discontinuity with his present, even with his own abilities. He 
was now in his early forties, the time of “midlife crisis” when people begin to sense 
their finitude, ask whether they are fulfilling their expectations of themselves, and 
perhaps accept their limitations with tranquility. Asa result of his renewed study 
of Paul, Augustine came to a fresh appreciation of the bondage of the will, inward 
conflict, and the need for grace. “I labored in behalf of the free choice of the 
human will,” he recalled about these years, “but the grace of God prevailed.” '* 
More and more, it seemed, he had to acknowledge human frailties—against the 
Donatists, who thought they could create a pure church; against the Pelagians, who 
thought that a sinless life was possible; against “Christian times” themselves, when 
the sack of Rome made it clear that even the Christian establishment was no 
guarantee of peace and happiness. 

There was even discontinuity with the future, the hoped-for fulfillment. The 
vision of God, which Augustine had expected to achieve any day through intellec- 
tual exercise and disciplining his affections, is now deferred. He begins to say that 
one comes home, gains beatitude and rest, merely in spe but not yet in re." He 


16. The notion of discontinuity is emphasized—not, of course, for the first or last ttme—by 
R.A. Markus, Conversion and Disenchantment and The End of Ancient Christianity 
(Cambridge and New York: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1990), pp. 28-36, 50. 


17. These events and their impact on Augustine are discussed in R. A. Markus, The End 
of Ancient Christianity, pp. 112-123. There is an especially important series of articles, 
surveying and analyzing this entire “transition period,” in // Cristianesimo nella storia 
(1990), republished (and translated into Italian) in L ‘intolleranza cristiana nei confronti dei 
pagani, a cura di Pier Franco Beatrice (Bologna: Ed. Dehoniane, 1993). 


18. Retr. Il, 1, referring to De div. q. ad Simpl., 1, q. 2, where he adopts a predestinarian 
position on the basis of Romans 9:10-29. 


19. The formulaic use of this contrast begins to appear about 398-400 in Conf. X, xx, 29 
(the moment of discovery?), C. Fau. XI, 7-8 and XII, 1, C. litt. Petil. Wl, vii, 14 and III, 


| 


Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 109 


begins to talk about being in via, on the way toward a goal that has not yet been 
reached. 

We have come some distance from the “early Augustine.” There has been 
a sobering—perhaps, Peter Brown suggests, because he “could not withstand the 
terrific weight of his own expectations.” With it comes a broadening of 
perspective—a recognition that he is not basking in the divine light but is only on 
the way and will reach it only under very different conditions. Augustine gives 
us permission, in other words, to have second and third thoughts about conversion 
narratives, in the confidence that they may come to be interpreted more fully as 
time discloses more adequately what is involved in the way that was chosen. He 
invited his readers to engage in further examination, asking only that they display 
the same spirit of inquiry, of comprehensiveness, and of readiness to re-learn that 
he demanded of himself. 


II. THE CHRISTIAN JOURNEY 


- We may be struck by the richness of experience in the Confessions. But the 


journey is not self-explanatory. Augustine sets it within a wider framework—the 
cosmos, human history, God’s purposes for both of them. But of course there must 
be a pattern of interpretation, and the one that is most recurrent is that of wandering 
and homecoming. 

There are some obvious ways in which it was a homecoming—to the faith of 
his mother Monica, which he had fled; to North Africa, which he had left and to 
which he then returned under quite different auspices; perhaps also to the irascible 
manner of his father Patricius, whom he had not liked much; certainly to God, 
who, he discovered, was always present even when his own attention was dispersed 
among the things of the world. 

But was it also a homecoming ina more cosmic sense? Robert O’Connell has 
spent his career demonstrating that the Platonist theme of the preexistence of the 
soul had more of a place in Augustine’s thought than we would like to suppose. 
Iam not so sure that Augustine affirmed preexistence; but he did give it credence 
as one of the possible theories of the origin of the soul, indeed, the most proba- 
ble.2!_ He was more firmly convinced that the soul is set between God as pure 


v, 27, and De bapt. I, iv, 5. 


20. Peter Brown, Augustine of Hippo: A Biography (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University 
of California Press, 1967), p. 147. 


21. Augustine’s practice is to list four classic theories explaining how the soul gets into the 
body: propagation from one generation to another, separate creation of each by God, sending 
of the soul into the body by divine will, and spontaneous movement of the soul into this 
particular body and destiny (De lib. arb. Ill, xxi, 62; Ep. 143, 6; Ep. 166, 7), or, more 
schematically (reversing the order of the first two), “either God, or nature, or necessity, 


110 Eugene TeSelle 


Being, in whom alone one finds true happiness, and the world of changing matter, 
in which the soul is dispersed and loses all coherence. The problem, then, was 
how to be restored to a life—perhaps an actual life, perhaps only a possibili- 
ty--from which one has somehow drifted away. 

Augustine understands his own wandering and homecoming on the model of 
the Prodigal Son, allegorized with imagery drawn from Plotinus’ Enneads (I, vi, 
6-8). His journey to the far country is not with horses, carriages, or ships, not 
with visible wings or churning knees, but with misdirected desire (Conf. I, xviii, 
28), just as his return is not travel in space, not with ship or chariot or feet, but 
with an act of will (Conf. VIII, viii, 19). Augustine’s was a “hierarchical” 
universe, with degrees of being everywhere—in the heavenly bodies, among living 
things, in the political world—and these, when properly understood, functioned 
as “steps” by which to ascend, stage by stage.” The external world with its 
degrees is a sign and reminder, then, of a different journey, turning from outward 
things to one’s inner self, and then rising toward God (Conf. VII, xvii, 23; IX, 
% 25: xX. vi. 9: In do; ev, 20; 12: En) Ps.41, 7). 

Long before he abandoned the hypothesis of preexistence, Augustine abandoned 
his excessive expectations for the present; he deferred them to the future, saying 
that fulfillment is now possessed only in spe but not yet in re. As a bishop, 
furthermore, he found himself becoming much more social in his thinking. He 
began to speak of the “two cities” constituted by two different loves (either of God 
or of finite things), and he saw them stretching throughout human history, begin- 
ning with Cain and Abel. 

Human beings who should have moved toward the heavenly city are now born 
citizens of the earthly city, in the lineage of Cain; but some are reborn citizens of 
Jerusalem, the city of God celebrated in the Psalms. The so-called “Psalms of 
Ascent” (Pss. 119-133 in the Greek and Latin numbering) are allegorized to evoke 
an ascent to the heavenly Jerusalem. And Augustine follows Paul (Gal 4:25-26) 
in understanding the earthly city as a sign of the Jerusalem above. But where Paul 
emphasized the difference, Augustine adds continuity. The earthly Jerusalem, the 
people of Israel in its cultic assembly, points in both directions: as part of the 


or our own will” (De b. v. i, 1). In his discussion of these theories he implies that the 
sequence is in ascending order, from the less to the more probable. The question of the 
origin of the embodied soul became a matter of more intense discussion after 415, and in 
417 he seems to have rejected the theory of personal preexistence for a vaguer theory of 
the sin of all “in Adam.” See Robert J. O’Connell, S.J., The Origin of the Soul in St. 
Augustine’s Later Works (New York: Fordham University Press, 1987), pp. 179-200, 300- 
319. 


22. For a convenient summary see Suzanne Poque, Le langage symbolique dans la 
prédication d’Augustin d’Hippone. Images héroiques (Paris: Etudes Augustiniennes, 1984), 
pp. 311-23. 


| Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 111 
| earthly city, with its own earthly “presence,” itis temporal, destined to pass away; 
_ but it is called to be a “figure” of the heavenly Jerusalem, toward which the elect 
are traveling (De civ. Dei XV, 2). 
| These citizens of the heavenly Jerusalem now dwell in the midst of the earthly 
city as peregrini—not pilgrims in the later sense, but resident foreigners, the gerim 
of ancient Israel, the w&povxou of the Greek cities, free persons who nonetheless 
_ were not citizens because they did not have property or belong to one of the official 
_ clans or share in the civic cult or have places in the theater. They also constituted 
_ the poor and most vulnerable portion of the cities, facing exclusion or expulsion 
during food shortages.** The connotations are negative, relieved only by the 
hospitality or tolerance of those among whom the foreigner dwells. 
For Augustine the negative connotations of “peregrinus” are pervasive. He uses 
_ the term in referring to foreign languages or peoples. In writing letters to fellow 
bishops who are away from their homes, the salutation reads “coepiscopo peregri- 
no.” Early in his intellectual development he uses the metaphor of dwelling ina 
strange land to refer to the soul, wandering on earth, away from its tranquil home 
with God (De an. quan, xxxi, 63). 

The semantic field of biblical terms (in the Vetus Latina, of course) was even 
stronger. It referred to the people of Israel during their servitude in Egypt (Gen 
11:32), or to the homeless stranger who is to be given shelter. The term also 
referred to the Gentiles, “alienati a societate Israel et peregrini testamentorum et 
promissionis” (Eph 2:12)—a situation reversed by Christ, who preached peace to 

_ those who were far away as well as those who were near, so that the Gentile 
_ Christians are no longer “peregrini et inquilini” but “cives sanctorum et domestici 
Dei” (Eph 2:19). But they have changed their citizenship; in becoming fellow 
citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, they become 
Strangers in this world. 
Augustine’s favorite text, which he paraphrases at least eighty times, is Paul’s 
statement (II Cor 5:6-7), “quamdiu sumus in corpore peregrinamur a Domino, per 
- fidem enim ambulamus, non per speciem.” All the essential points are there. 
1. It is sojourning away from (“a,” “de”) God, Christ, the heavenly city, the 
vision of God, often reinforced by suggestions of separation (“inde,” “unde”) or 
distance (“longe,” “a longinquo”). This is true not only of individuals but of the 
peregrina ciuitas, the city of God—more precisely, that portion of it which wanders 
on earth, away from its true home. 
2. It is sojourning in the body, or in the world, as in strange territory, quite 
different from what one who is suffering and struggling hopes for. A person who 
enjoys living in a foreign country does not love the homeland. If one loves the 


23. Bernhard Kotting, Peregrinatio Religiosa. Wallfahrten inder Antike und das Pilgerwesen 
in der alten Kirche (Minster: Regensberg, 1950), pp. 7-11. 


Li2 Eugene TeSelle 


homeland, life in a foreign country will be bitter; one will not find security; and 
every day will be tribulation (En. Ps. 85, 11 and 16). It is travel as travail. 

3. Despite these negative overtones, Augustine avoids using certain terms to 
describe the situation of the wanderer or exile. “Exile” suggested banishment. 
“Alien” and “alienation” applied to what belongs to another or is hostile; to alienate 
property was to make it another’s, so that is no longer one’s own. These terms, 
then, suggest either contradiction (alienation from God and salvation, or from one’s 
authentic being [De Trin. XI, v, 9]) or difference in kind (e.g., the Manichaean 
“good” and “evil” principles). The peregrinus, by contrast, sojourns in a country 
whose “difference” from the city of God is neither an exile nor a difference in kind 
nor a direct opposition to that proper destiny. For example, ina concluding a long 
chapter on Cain, the ancestor of us all and the founder of the earthly city, Augus- 
tine says that fleshly desires are to be “healed as our own, not rejected as alien” 
(De civ. Dei XV, 7). The “far country” in which we sojourn, in other words, does 
not exclude the possibility of rebirth; yet it is full of temptations to evil. Alienation 
occurs through our own consent to temptation—when, through our own decision, 
we depart from God. Then the consequence of alienation is exile. Thus we must 
translate peregrinus with “stranger,” “foreigner,” “sojourner,” “traveler,” but not 
“alien” or “exile.” We may chart the terms as follows: 


9 6 99 66 


Location 
Personal Proprium Peregrinatio 
Relationship Alienum Exsilium 


4. Because one is ina foreign but not an alien setting, there can be the positive 
movement of walking by faith, and all of life can become the vehicle by which to 
reach the goal. God is distant, to be sure, from those who are in exile, and yet 
has also prepared a way (En. Ps. 66, 5). The way is Christ, more precisely, 
his humanity, which is the way to his divinity: through Christ, to Christ. 


[The Word] became man so that one who is God might be the man, the mediator 
between men and God (I Tim 2:5), and reconcile those who were far away, and 
join those who were separate, and call back the alienated, and lead back the 
sojourners (En. Ps. 100, 3). 


24. Augustine usually speaks of the way that definitely leads to the goal as a via, while an 
iter is more neutral, needing to be qualified as good or bad, erratic or fatiguing. He does 
not use the word “itinerarium,” although it was beginning to be used during the fourth 
century. He does use “viator,” but still metaphorically, not yet as a technical term for the 
Christian peregrinus. The theme of “la patrie bienheureuse et la voie pour y parvenir” is 
summarized in Olivier du Roy, L’Intelligence de la foi en la Trinité selon saint Augustin. 
Genése de sa théologie trinitaire jusqu’en 391 (Paris: Etudes Augustiniennes, 1966), pp. 
96-106. 


Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 113 


Walk through the man, and come to God. You go through him, you go to him. 
... [do not say, “Seek the way.” The way itself has come to you. Rise and walk 
(Serm. 141, 4). 


If the way is lacking or unknown, what good is it to know the goal? There is only 
one way, guarded against all errors, when the same one is both God and man. 
Where you go is God, the way you go is the man [quo itur Deus, qua itur homo] 
(De civ. Dei XI, 2). 


The walking begins with faith and is completed by love, caritas, poured into human 
hearts by the Holy Spirit (Rom 5:5). The gift of the Spirit is an arrha, a “down 
payment” or “earnest” (II Cor 1:22, 5:5), already the beginning of what is 
sought.” 


What did Christ promise? Eternal life, as an earnest of which he gave the Holy 
Spirit. Eternal life is possessed by those who already dwell there; the earnest 
consoles those who are still away from home. ... We already have the earnest; 
but we thirst for the fountain from which it flows (Serm. 378). 


Because it is a beginning, even to be a wiator is to have a certain kind of “perfec- 
tion.” 


There is perfection and perfection. One can be perfect in traveling but not yet 
be perfect in arriving. The perfect traveler starts well, walks well, holds to the 
way, but, while still a traveler, does not yet arrive at the goal. And yet the 
traveler who walks, and walks on the way, is walking somewhere, trying to arrive 
at some destination (Serm. Den. 18,2-3). 


There are other complexities. In walking a “way,” one wills many things; but 
some of them are willed for the sake of other things which are sought for their own 
sake. Therefore Augustine says in a striking passage: 


the joining of these right acts of willing constitutes, as it were, a path (iter) for 
those who are ascending toward beatitude, a path traveled by definite steps. ... 
Blessed are those who, by their acts and their character, sing the Songs of Ascent 
(De Trin. XI, vi, 10). 


25. The Phoenician and Hebrew word (arrabon) was taken into Greek (appaGarv) and then 
into Latin (usually arrha), and via Old French has become transformed into the English word 
“earnest.” At one point in a sermon delivered in Carthage (Serm. 23, 8-9) Augustine 
comments that those in the congregation who have understood the difference between a 
“pledge” (pignus), which is returned when the promise is fulfilled, and an “earnest” (arrha), 
which is part of the fulfillment, are explaining it to the others—not surprising in a commer- 
cial city with Phoenician roots! While we are mentioning commercial metaphors, Augustine 
spoke of almsgiving as transferring one’s treasures to heaven (Mt 6:19-21), and the poor 
as the porters (/aturarii, a vernacular rather than literary term) who carry it to a different 
bank and enable one to “migrate” to a new home (Sevm. 18, 4; 25A, 4; 38, 9; 60, 8; 107A, 
2; 114A, 4). 


114 Eugene TeSelle 


The point is made with a bit more philosophical rigor in an earlier passage (De 
ver. rel. lii, 101 - lii, 103): curiosity seeks knowledge, pride seeks power (or ease 
of acting), desire seeks rest; but all of these are fulfilled in God, and what they 
most love in this life can be perfected only after this life. 

Even when the journey is under way, with awareness of the goal and the 
beginning of what is sought, it is beset with hazards. Journeys can be by land or 
by sea, and in Augustine’s imagery the land journey seems safer and more secure; 
it is on solid ground, after all, and human agency is involved, although the 
achievement is “not of the one who wills, or the one who runs, but of God’s 
mercy” (Rom 9:16), a walking “not after the flesh but after the Spirit” (Rom 8:4). 
A sea journey, by contrast, connotes danger and insecurity. In one passage 
Augustine suggests that all who dwell in this world are travelers tossed by waves 
and storms, and Christians are different only in wanting to return to the homeland 
and sailing in the ship of the church, which, while storm-tossed, is the only way 
of salvation, with sailors who have abandoned human means and pour out their 
voices to God (Serm. 75, 4). Itis only by the “wood of the cross” (usually lignum 
crucis) that the church is kept from being submerged in stormy seas, and even then 
by a narrow margin and with great difficulty (Conf. I, xvi, 25; In Jo. Ev tr. 2, 2-4; 
De cat. rud. xix, 32; Serm. 75, 2; Serm. 252, 2). The sea is a dangerous place, 
described this way in a classic passage (En. Ps. 64, 9): 


The sea is a figure of this age, bitter with salt, tossed by gales, where, by their 
perverse and depraved desires, people have become like fish devouring each other. 
Look at this evil sea, this bitter sea raging with waves; see the kind of people with 
which it is filled. Who wants an inheritance without the death of another? Who 
wants gain without another’s loss? How many seek to climb through the fall of 
others! How many want others to sell their goods so that they may buy them! 
How they oppress each other and devour those they can! And when a bigger fish 
has devoured a smaller one, it is devoured by a still larger one. 


Augustine speaks of the “waves of temptation” which beat upon him from childhood 
on (Conf. I, xi, 18), the “torrent of custom” which sweeps the children of Eve into 
the vast sea (Conf. I, xvi, 25), the “bitter sea” of humanity (Conf. XIII, xvii, 20) 
tossing with conflicting desires. 

Even the journey by land is beset with difficulties. Perhaps one can see the 
homeland in the distance, from a wooded hilltop, but not see the way and be 
confronted by sinister beasts (Conf. VII, xxi, 27)—is this the source of the opening 
canto of Dante’s Commedia? Because of the power of evil one must be led there, 
like the Magi, “by another way” (De Trin. IV, xii, 15) which cannot be blocked 
by the powers of evil—is this the source of Dante’s “altro viaggio,” the way of 
Inferno and Purgatorio and Paradiso? 

Despite the strength of their conviction about the goal and the way that leads 
to it, Christians still understood their peregrinatio as “sojourning,” not yet as 


Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 115 


“pilgrimage” in the medieval and modern sense. To be sure, they were beginning 
to make journeys to Jerusalem and other holy places,”° and founding xenodocheia 
for the assistance of travelers and the poor.”’” But Augustine was uninfluenced 
by these first beginnings of “pilgrimage.” In North Africa the Christians looked 
more like liminal outsiders. They celebrated the martyrs on their “birth days” —the 
days of their leaving earth for heaven—at their tombs, made more impressive 
during the fourth century with basilicas which could hold large crowds.** No 
wonder Julian the Apostate ridiculed the “Galilaeans” for deserting the celestial 
deities and worshiping corpses and relics (Ep. 52 [114] to the Bostrians). The 
Christian community gathered en masse at the tombs of the martyrs, a different 
locale than the cathedral; on these occasions they were especially reminded of the 
transiency of life, and their social differences were left behind in the city.” But 
there was not yet anything like a religious procession to these places, since it would 
have looked too much like the pagan pompa which Christians had renounced at 
baptism.” 

In “liminal” rituals, as Turner describes them, the conventional “structure” 
of society is negated in the “anti-structure” of communitas, breaking free, in a 
socially approved way, from the differentiations and inequalities of everyday life.* 
This communitas fills several different roles: it makes the usual inequalities bearable 
by giving occasional opportunities for status reversal; it makes “structure” serve 
the common good by reminding those who have power and privilege that they are 
not essentially different from the others and that they have responsibilities for all’’; 
it even creates new demands, for communitas itself may be institutionalized in 


26. Kotting, Peregrinatio Religiosa, pp. 80ff.; Marcel Simon, “Les pélerinages dans 
l’antiquité chrétienne,” Les pélerinages de l’antiquité biblique et classique a l’occident 
médiévale (Paris: Geuthner, 1973), pp. 97-115; E. D. Hunt, Holy Land Pilgrimage in the 
Later Roman Empire AD 312-460 (Oxford: Clarendon, 1982); Pierre Maraval, Lieux saints 
et pélerinages d’Orient. Histoire et géographie des origines a la conquéte arabe (Paris: 
Editions du Cerf, 1985); Robert L. Wilken, The Land Called Holy: Palestine in Christian 
History and Thought (New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 1992), pp. 101-25. 


27. Kotting, pp. 376ff. 


28. The customs of the time, and Augustine’s attitudes to them, are summarized in Fredrik 
van der Meer, Augustine the Bishop, transl. by Brian Battershaw and G. R. Lamb (London 
and New York: Sheed and Ward, 1961), pp. 471-526. 


29. Peter Brown, The Cult of the Saints: Its Rise and Function in Latin Christianity 
(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1981), p. 42. 


30. Kotting, Peregrinatio religiosa, pp. 386-88. 


31. Victor Turner, The Ritual Process: Structure and Anti-Structure (Chicago: Aldine 
Publishers, 1969), pp. 106-11. 


32. V. Turner, The Ritual Process, pp. 102-105, 177-78. 


116 Eugene TeSelle 


highly ritualized ways.*? The Christian Church in Augustine’s day played all these 
roles. It had begun as an exception to, a rebellion against, the religion and culture 
and even the politics of the Roman Empire. It exhorted high officials to see their 
office as a responsibility. But it also offered a new set of ritualized practices 
which, even while pointing above themselves, could seem to many to be just as 
conventional and oppressive as the old ones. 

But a difference remained. The city of God, Augustine pointed out, is founded 
upon faith; Rome, the earthly city par excellence, was first founded and only later 
gave divine honors to Romulus (De civ. Dei XXII, 6). This may explain why the 
pagans were fighting a losing battle against Christianity. Frangois Paschoud notes 
that the traditional rituals of the civic cult must be performed by officials and be 
publicly financed, for their whole purpose was to guarantee the health of the state; 
Christianity, however, kad grown without state support, had a self-sustaining life 
of its own, and could live with a “secular state.”™ It taught people to transcend 
their earthly community, looking not only above it toa God who was not a function 
of the earthly city, but within themselves to a new freedom that enabled them to 
dissent from its religious practices and become peregrini, and below it to the poor, 
the other group of peregrini who also became part of the entourage of the Christian 
bishops.*° 


Ill. THE ONTOLOGICAL JOURNEY 


We have been looking at the Christian journey, the way which leads to fulfillment. 
But Augustine knew that it is possible to lose the way, even to lose orientation or 
any sense of the goal. As a moralist, then, he must inquire into the causes of 
wandering away, and he finds them in the multiplicity of images—sensory, 
intellectual, cultural—that encounter human beings and the conflicting impulses that 
arise within them. As a philosopher he must go even farther and inquire into the 
very nature of finite existence, for it is the presupposition, the condition of 
possibility, for the bad as well as the good things that can happen in the journey 
of life. Asa consequence he develops what we might call a metaphysics of travel. 

Augustine understood not only corporeal but spiritual things to be intrinsically 
formless, changeable, fluid—to be, in a word, rooted in “matter,” awaiting 
formation by God.* 


33. V. Turner, The Ritual Process, pp. 137-38. 


34. Francois Paschoud, “L’Intolérance chréteienne vue et jugée par les paiens,” /I cristiane- 
simo nella storia, 11 (1990), pp. 554, 565, 574; reprinted in L’intolleranza cristiana, pp. 
161, 174, 185. 


35. Peter Brown, Power and Persuasion in Late Antiquity: Towards a Christian Empire 
(Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1992), pp. 91-103. 


36. The metaphor of soul as “matter” is found in Plotinus (Enneades V, i, 7; V, ix, 4), 


Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 117 


The “fluidity” of finite spirit has at least three basic connotations: (1) indeter- 
minacy as life “of some sort,” characterized only by its “wavering liquidity”*’; 
(2) potentiality, the capacity for something better, since it is “not yet” what it can 
become; and (3) corruptibility, whose lack (its darkness and fluidity) begins only 
a descriptive difference, a “non-culpable darkness” (De civ. Dei XI, 20), but may 
also issue in acts of evil. 

Thus finite being—let us use the term “existence,” since already in Augustine 
existentia is set in contrast to God as esse or essentia—is intrinsically unstable. 
The world “ex-sists” in its otherness from God; it has “being” in its returning 
toward God or being more like God. Thus existence is the principle of dispersive- 
ness and alterity, keeping things both alter, mutually other, and aliter, existing 
“otherwise” from one moment to another (Conf. VII, xx, 26). This is not tragic. 
If there is to be a world distinct from God it must exist differently than God. It 
has its own minimal degree of being and goodness—but only minimal; matter is 
a nihil aliquid, an est non est (Conf. XII, vi, 6); as Plato had said, it is “always 
becoming and never is” (Timaeus 28A). 

The Platonist tradition was fascinated with Plato’s discussion (Politicus 269C- 
274D) of the possibility that the World Soul might spontaneously reverse its actions 
and the world, “storm-tossed,” sink into the “infinite region of dissimilarity,” 
except that the supreme God puts a hand to the tiller and restores the delicate 
balance of the cosmos.** This is “cosmic anxiety” with a vengeance, a sense that 
there is contingency and fallibility at the very root of things, analogous to our 
contemporary anxiety that the planet as a whole is threatened with nuclear or 
ecological disaster, but with this difference: we ourselves have now become the 
unstable World Soul. It is not surprising, then, that the Platonists can describe 
the world as a storm-tossed sea, and Augustine follows the tradition. 

With all its insecurity, there isan aesthetic grandeur about the human situation. 
Augustine notes a characteristic of human behavior and of countless narratives, 


who ultimately got it from Aristotle, for whom sensory and intelligent life has no nature 
of its own but is susceptible of being formed by what it experiences (De anima, III, 4-8 
[429a9-432a10]). This same understanding of soul as indeterminate life, not “essentially” 
good or bad but capable of both, is found in Origen (De principits 1, v, 3; Ill, iv, 2). I 
have traced Augustine’s use of this motif in “Nature and Grace in Augustine’s Expositions 
of Genesis I, 1-5,” Recherches Augustiniennes V (1968), 95-137, and Augustine the 
Theologian (London: Burns & Oates, 1970), pp. 197-223. 


37. Augustine uses expressions like “qualiscumque vita” (Conf. XIII, iii, 4), or, more 
ambiguously, “vagabunda deliquia” (Conf. XIII, v, 6). “Deliquia” was rarely used by Latin 
writers. It had overtones of “flowing down,” “deliquescence,” and “delight” (deliquiae 
= deliciae); see the commentary on the Confessions by James J. O’Donnell, II, 351 for 
references to the scholarly discussion. 


38. I have explored this in “‘Regio Dissimilitudinis’ in the Christian Tradition and Its 
Context in Late Greek Philosophy,” Augustinian Studies V1 (1975), 153-179. 


118 Eugene TeSelle 


Biblical as well as secular: we rejoice more when there has been danger and loss 
than when things have remained stable and calm; we impose on others a period 
of testing lest they win the prize too cheaply; we even impose pain or privation 
on ourselves so that the pleasure at the end will be greater (Conf. VIII, iii, 6-7). 
We could go on to mention the lurid curiosity about violence and injury, the 
prurient interest in sex, which are so often criticized in the mass media and popular 
culture and yet are so successful in the marketplace. We are fascinated with the 
agonies, the temptations, the excesses of others, because we know that these are 
human possibilities; we wonder how we would react under similar circumstances, 
and we want to live them vicariously. At such moments Augustine adopts the Stoic 
view of evil: the tensions and reversals, the dark places along with the light, make 
finite life more “interesting,” aesthetically more complex. 

The world in which we live is “interesting,” too, filled with dangerous things. 
We are like visitors to a forge, he says, surrounded by unknown implements which 
can hurt us, and yet they are indispensable to the smith’s work (De Gen. c. Man. 
I, xvi, 25-26); we complain about buzzing flies and crawling insects, when we 
should appreciate their intricacy and the balance of the ecosystem, entirely apart 
from our own convenience (De civ. XII, 4). In passages like these, Augustine 
begins to sound like the modern explorer, the natural scientist, the tourist who can 
take an interest in the journey and the colorful sights along the way. Does Pliny’s 
Natural History tell about pygmies or dog-headed people or “shadow-footed” 
people? If they are descendants of Adam and Eve they are our brothers and sisters, 
and share the same possibility of salvation that Christians have (De civ. Dei XVI, 
8). Are there fantastic “life forms” like those that appear in the cantina scene in 
Star Wars? Augustine would say that they also share the same Creator and the 
same intellectual and spiritual possibilities as earthlings. 

He also makes a place for open-ended searching for the human good. As a 
philosopher he affirmed the dictum that “we all seek happiness.”* But we do 
not know in what happiness consists, and as a philosopher he goes through all the 
possibilities; somewhat facetiously he mentions that Varro found 288 permutations 
and combinations in views of the human good (De civ. Dei XIX, 1-4). Of course 
Augustine is convinced that true happiness is found only in the contemplation of 
God, for only there can we find that which is worth having, can be attained, and 
with security. But he acknowledged at least the theoretical possibility of alterna- 
tives.“ He also entertained the hypothesis that, even if one cannot attain the 
truth, one can be happy in seeking it (C. Ac. I, iii, 7). Inthe same spirit, moderns 
have loved Lessing’s statement, 


39. See n. 3, above. 


40. Most of these are explored in Gerard O’Daly, Augustine’s Philosophy of Mind (Berkeley 
and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1987), pp. 163-64, 166-67, 181, 184. 


Travel As Metaphor in Augustine 119 


If God held in his right hand all truth, and in his left the always changing quest 
for truth, although with the proviso that I would always lose my way, and told 
me, “Choose!” I would fall humbly on the left, saying, “Father, give this one; 
the pure truth is for you alone!”*! 


Even if there were no hope of achieving happiness, we would prefer the pain of 
conflict rather than be dominated by vice (De civ. Dei XX1I,15). Or perhaps there 
is a diversity of highest goods, appropriate to different individuals; but even then 
there would be a shared wisdom, a shared insight into the diversity (De lib. arb. 
II, ix, 26-27). In moods like these, Augustine might agree with Aristotle and his 
modern commentators, who suggest that, “just as one swallow does not make a 
summer,” the good and happy life is one which is varied and balanced, self-chosen 
and self-executed.” 

To him, ofcourse, these are only theoretical possibilities, for he has abandoned 
this merely human wisdom and dedicated himself to God, on the principle that one 
finds one’s life only by losing it. And yet he never forgets the temporality of 
everything, cosmic or human or angelic. Whatever stability is gained, even in 
contemplation of the unchanging God, it only “restrains” but does not cancel the 
intrinsic instability of the human spirit (Conf. XII, ix, 9), which remains temporal 
in its nature, rising above time only psychologically or existentially, no longer 
desiring something different in the future or regretting what it has lost to the past 
(Conf. XIII, xi, 12; xv, 19). 

Augustine could never have hoped, furthermore, fora perfectly satisfying state 
of affairs at the end of human history, for life would soon lose its interest and time 
would still go on. He would understand John Stuart Mill, who, at a time of 
despair, 


put the question directly to myself, “Suppose that all your objects in life were 
realized; that all the changes in institutions and opinions which you are looking 
forward to, could be completely effected at this very instant: would this be a great 


41. Gotthold Lessing, “Eine Duplik,” in Werke (Munchen: Hanser, 1979), vill, 33. The 
Romantic and Idealist transformation of Platonist and Christian travel metaphors is discussed 
inM.H. Abrams, Natural Supernaturalism: Tradition and Revolution in Romantic Literature 
(New York: Norton, 1971), and in “Spiritual Travelers in Western Literature,” in B. 
Magliocchetti and A. Verna, eds., The Motif of the Journey in Nineteenth-Century Italian 
Literature (Gainesville: University of Florida Press, 1994), pp. 1-20. 


42. Aristotle, Eth. Nic. I, 7 (1098a17-1098b7). An influential modern essay, arguing in 
favor of an “inclusive” rather than a “dominant” end, is W. F. R. Hardie, “The Final Good 
in Aristotle’s Ethics,” Philosophy 40 (1965), 277-95, reprinted in Aristotle: A Collection 
of Critical Essays, ed. by J. M. E. Moravesik (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame 
Press, 1968), pp. 297-322. 


120 Eugene TeSelle 


joy and happiness to you?” And an irrepressible self-consciousness distinctly 
answered, “No!”43 


One had to be careful of this even in loving God. Origen suggested that the reason 
for the fall of finite spirits was exhaustion or satiation or boredom (xépoc) in 
contemplating God (De princ. II, ix, 2).“ The modern world is convinced that 
it would indeed be boring. Kant liked to quote verses from Albrecht von Haller, 


... die Welt mit ihren Mangeln 

Is besser als das Heer von willenlosen Engeln 
(The world with all its failings still 
Is better than a host of angels void of will).*° 


But Origen already suggested an alternative: maintain the eagerness of loving desire 
(De princ. |, iii, 8; II, vi, 3-5; ix, 2; xi, 7). Gregory of Nyssa, in order to avoid 
any suggestion that God might be finite or the vision of God uninteresting, stressed 
what is still lacking, the “darkness” that remains even in the presence of divine 
light, and thus the need for infinite progress (Vita Moysis, 11, 219-255). Augustine 
similarly ends his long work on the Trinity by advising us to seek the incomprehen- 
sible, and to continue as long as we make progress in the inquiry, for “it is sought 
in order that it be found more sweetly, and found in order that it be sought more 
eagerly” (De Trin. XV, ii, 2). 

Augustine’s age was a limited one, culturally and geographically; and bureau- 
cracy from within and barbarians from without were steadily narrowing its 
possibilities. And yet he knew the infinitude of the human spirit, restlessly moving 
forward and outward, looking within and outside and above itself for orientation 
and for fulfillment, hastening on, capable of change for the better—and for the 
worse. Despite the limitations of his world, and perhaps because of them, he 
encouraged his contemporaries not to be premature when they felt the thrill of 
discovery and fulfillment. In that same spirit he gave permission to later centu- 
ries—and to ourselves—to broaden our horizons and continue venturing forth. 


Vanderbilt University 


43. John Stuart Mill, Autobiography (London: Humphrey Milford, 1924), p. 113. 


44. Marguerite Harl, “Recherches sur l’origénisme d’Origéne: la ’satiété’ (kopo¢) de la 
contemplation comme motif de la chute des Ames,” Studia Patristica 8: Texte und Unter- 
suchungen, 93 (1966), 373-405, shows that this was not Origen’s own view, and later 
accusations came in part from changes in the connotations of Kdpoc. 


45. Albrecht von Haller, “Uber dem Ursprung des Ubels,” II, 33-34, quoted in Kant’s Die 
Religion innerhalb der Grenzen der blossen Vernunft and Die Metaphysik der Sitten, in the 
“Akademie-Ausgabe,” Immanuel Kant’s Gesammelte Schriften, hrsg. von der Preussischen 
Akademie der Wissenschaften (Berlin: Reimer, 1900-1955), VI, 65n. and 397n. The 
translation is from Religion Within the Limits of Reason Alone, transl. by Th. M. Greene 
and H. H. Hudson (New York: Harper & Brothers, 1960), p. 58n. 


TOM CONLEY 


Virtual Reality and the Jsolario 


In 1485 the city of Venice witnessed the publication of Bartolomeo dalli Sonetti’s 
Isolario, a portolan atlas that depicts the major islands of the Aegean sea. Forty-nine 
maps are placed on the recto side of pages that are accompanied, on the verso of 
the preceding sheets, of sonnets that depict the pertinent traits of every island. In 
the history of cartography the slim volume, of which only 46 copies are extant, 
marks a major turning point. Until then, scholars agree, the detailed depiction of 
shores and islands had been common to portolan charts, that is, to hand-drawn maps 
of the Mediterranean that had been used by navigators and sailors. These had been 
practical views of the sea and coastlines, that had been located both on ships and, 
too, in places destined to house rare and valuable objects. The portolan chart attested 
to the viability of maps for the practice of commerce and travel. 

Sonetti’s Isolario departs from the tradition on at least two grounds. First, 
it is the first mechanically reproduced work of its kind, a work that copies 
manuscript-images of the Aegean archipelago as it had first been represented by 
Christoforo Buondelmonte in his Liber insularum Archipelagi, a manuscript dating 
to about 1520.' Second, the book sums up a crucial part of the tradition that it 
establishes. It shares much with concurrent reeditions of Ptolemy’s Geographia 
in that although it seems to be based on the experience of travel in the Aegean (and 
the accompanying text underscores the eye-witness account on the part of the writer), 
the reality it projects is not something that is represented, but that is entirely 
simulated. It is a book of real islands that are the product of the labors of a poet 
and a woodcutter. The reader of the book experiences the history and the space 
of the archipelago as he or she never would be able to do within the limiting and 
unreliable process of travel and notation of a world seen. 

The virtue of Sonetti’s virtuality was not lost on later editors. In 1528, when 


1. The history and sources of Sonetti’s work are outlined in Frederick J. Goff’s introduction 
to the fac-simile edition of the Jsolario (Amsterdam: Theatrum Orbis Terrarum Ltd, n. d.). 
See also Tony Campbell, The Earliest Printed Maps (Berkeley: University of California 
Press, 1987) and J. B. Harley and David Woodward, eds., The History of Cartography, 
I (Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 1987), in which the isolario and the portolano 
are studied in historical detail. All references to Sonetti’s work will be made to the fac-simile 
edition. References to Benedetto Bordone are taken from R. A. Skelton, ed., fac-simile 
edition of Libro ... de tutte l’isole del mondo (Venice 1528; Amsterdam: Theatrum Orbis 
Terrarum, 1966). 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


122 TOM CONLEY 


Benedetto Bordone copies the outer form of Sonetti’s /solario to produce an island- 
book that extends chapters to include the discovery of the New World, he fills 
the space allotted to description with ample amounts of prose. The poems that had 
accompanied the images of the islands in the work of 1485 are jettisoned, and an 
ample body of prose fills the blank space that had suggested an equivalence of a 
poem to anisland. In Sonetti’s work the juxtaposition of an insular unit of writing 
to a fragment of land was clear. Mapped out with rhumblines and with an 
encompassing wind-rose depicting the placement of the island in respect to cardinal 
points, with a scale of leagues, and signs marking the winds that blow over the 
masses of land and water, Sonetti offers images and poetic legends that appear to 
be both “real” and of practical use for travelers. The sea, the land, and the 
properties of the each site in the Aegean are available to be seen in a glance. 

By contrast, Bordone’s creation, a book that would witness increased popularity 
throughout much of the sixteenth century (if four later editions—i534, another about 
1537, another between 1534 and 1567, and a last printing in 1547—are taken into 
account),” fills the vacant space with information. Descriptive prose occupies the 
space that had been located between the map and the sonnets. The printed 
information becomes an environing sea that surrounds 104 woodcut images of not 
only Aegean islands but those of the world at large. A sense of the grounding of 
space is established in the block-like aspect of islands in rectangular frames that 
are aligned with a long column of prose that the images seem to interrupt. The 
compass-lines appear as if they were conjugated with the corners of the frame that 
is given a bevelled aspect, appearing thus to fall into a space deeper than the surface 
of the page. A greater feeling of grounding is obtained, and so too is a sense of 
the control of the relation between what is known about the island and its visual 
form. 

A glance at Sonetti’s and Bordone’s renderings of the same islands yields a 
wealth of pertinently minimal differences. In the two pages devoted to the Island 
of Psara, Sonetti contains the major island and its adjuncts within most of the ambient 
diagram that charts the cardinal points. North is indicated by the arrowhead that 
appears to point to the west, while the latin cross at the top of the map aims east. 
The center of the circle, at which meet eight lines that divide the circle into as many 
pie-like sections, is situated midway between Psara proper, “Psara piccolo,” and 
two islands between. The woodcut places dots along two peninsulas, indicating 
shallows by which sailors ought to steer clear. The design of the image puts the 
island on a sort of wheel, a branloire, like that of fortune, that makes the figure 
liable to be seen from any given angle. Three tufts of schematic trees verify what 
the sonnet declares about the presence of rich forests. Near the upper coast, in 


2. Robert W. Karrow, Jr., Mapmakers of the Sixteenth Century and Their Maps (Chicago: 
The Speculum Press, 1993), pp. 92-93; see also R. A. Skelton (1966), p. x. 


Virtual Reality and the Isolario 123 


line with the vector aiming to the East, a sketch indicates that the remains ofa castle 
can be seen (“Ebe gia questa un castel pelegrino dal lato de oriente e ruinato se 
vede adesso aterrato e meschino”). The smaller island has nothing inscribed in 
its borders, the blank space suggesting the uninhabited space that Bordone will 
underscore in his description (“@ nominato psara piccolo, & ogni cosa é deserta, 
senza habitatione algune, ma de cavalli, afini, lepre, & cotorni ne ha habondante- 
mente & soppra ognaltra cosa ha bonissime acque”). Sonetti’s poem uses its 
descriptive virtue to link the space produced in the adjoining woodcut to the other 
islands in the book, the final tercet noting that the line established by the garbino 
wind would lead the voyager directly to the redoubtable Chaloiero island that had 
been the topic of the image and text nine folio pages above (“Ma chi da questa fussi 
separato miglia quaranta inver ostro e garbino serebe col chaloiero atrovato”). 
The poem suggests that a pliable extension of space comprises a matrix in which 
the islands are placed. Yet, as each is enclosed in the diagram, its relation to other 
islands is enhanced by use of analogy, spatial description, or even narrative itinerary 
in the sonnet. 

Bordone literally fills out what is suggested through the relation Sonetti 
establishes with the image and the poem. Drawing on Ptolemy and Strabo, he 
situates Psara and its environing island in relation to Lesbos. His burin cuts a 
signature (resembling in fact that of Valerio Adami) in the place-names that are 
inserted into the image: Psara is named below one of its forests, its central island- 
port is named at the middle of the picture, and Psara piccolo is cut into the sea just 
below the vacant island of its name. Nonetheless, Sonetti’s outline of the coasts 
offers the illusion of greater detail with a more jagged rendering. The book of 1485 
seems to say more with its visual innuendo and the elliptical tone of its sonnet than 
does Bordone with his more careful project of nomination. 

Comparison of the two renderings of Limonia and Carchi, two adjacent islands 
in the same area, leads to slightly different conclusions. In Sonetti’s map nine islands 
are portrayed, only one of which protudes the containing circle. Two of the three 
islets between the major bodies of land are cut by the lines designated by the garbino 
and scirocco winds. The compass-line to the north follows a trajectory that is exactly 
northwest on the printed page, yielding a disposition of Limonia set below its 
counterpart. The jagged, almost “cogwheeled” shoreline is rendered in greater 
detail in the 1485 depiction than that of 1528. The estuaries of the principal rivers 
oneach island are drawn to designate a broad and extensive mouth that opens below 
sources taken to be situated in forests that are indicated by stylized groups of two 
(Limonia) or three (Carchi) trees. 

Schematic figures are drawn to signal the presence of a castle and a monastery 
on Carchi, and some evidence of habitation in the central highlands of Limonia. 
Bordone, by contrast, simplifies the outline of the two islands but emphasizes their 
“floating” aspect by putting the rhumblines beneath the land masses that are drawn 
with a high degree of relief. The mountains and trees are etched with such fine 


124 TOM CONLEY 


parallel hatchings that a latent topography begins to emerge from the outline of the 
island, thus offering two different (but simultaneous) perspectives on the given space. 
Bordone’s depiction of the rivers is more reminiscent on cursory glance of the style 
of Ptolemiac maps that offer longer lines and origins (as in the case of the Nile) 
in circles (designating lakes) or points where the line seems to end in the landscape. 
The place-names that are drawn within the containing shapes of the islands give 
a literal “definition,” in both name and in spatial effects, to each of the masses. 
Most important, Bordone turns the islands to make their length become visible on 
a vertical axis. 

The textual legends seem to conform to a pattern of difference visible elsewhere. 
The islands, both authors note, are rugged and not very hospitable. They are known 
for their figs (hence the presence of the trees in the images), and the inhabitants 
enjoy a local custom worthy of note: the dowry that young women bring to the 
men they shall marry consists in hoes and shovels. The space is sanctified in both 
Sonetti and Bordone through the story of San Niccolo, who led the inhabitants to 
salvation and for whom the iso/ani built a church in his honor. Bordone locates 
the pair of islands on the greater map of the Aegean, whereas Sonetti uses the poem 
both to describe the site and to narrate the tale of travel about the area. The earlier 
text has a living and moving aspect that Bordone replaces with a quasi-touristic, 
quasi-objective treatment in an ample paragraph of description. 

The two treatments diverge most notably in the way the islands are spatialized. 
For Sonetti, the areas seem to turn about the navigational circle and hence are 
inscribed in a reiterative structure, a diagrammatic rendering of a rondeau or a 
ritournelle, the sign of eternal movement and return. Set in a far more scenographic 
frame in Bordone’s picture, Limonia and Carchi nonetheless “release” themselves 
much more readily to the spectator’s imagination than in Sonetti’s time-space allegory 
determined by the circle and the accompanying navigational apparatus. The increased 
emphasis on relief turns the islands into anthropomorphic forms, into faces of bodies 
seemingly competing for the crumb of an islet set between them. Limonia is more 
likely to swallow the torso-like island than its counterpart that seems to shriek at 
what it sees taking place. Or else, the islands are cells that have just undergone 
mitosis, and are now extending their pseudopodia in the shape of peninsulas, as 
if they were to engulf the blank matter that surrounds them. Bordone brings out 
a biological latency that seems to simulate the very process that the enterprise of 
the isolario embodies in its intellectual and commercial vision: digestion of a world 
that can never be completely explored or broken down into assimilable units. 

In this way the work of Sonetti and Bordone can be read as harbingers of an 
extraordinary voyage into and about a world of infinite possibility that we obtain 
from the ideology that circulates in the kingdom of computer technologies. Akin 
modern artists who use computers in tandem with video images and mixed medias, 
the authors of the earliest isolarii show us that the essay of space and language brings 
forth what advanced technology can never control, but which supports the best and 


piara piccilo 


Ey. 


Virtual Reality and the Isolario 





125 


126 TOM CONLEY 


worst of their ideology, and that inhabits us from our very origins and that 
accompanies us with the continuity of a laser beam: the relation with the unknown. 
What technologies rediscover in their regression, and what they want to repress, 
seems to reside in all that remains unnamed but very concretely drawn within the 
detail and outside of the frame of these woodcuts that simulate the authenticity of 
portolan charts of the Aegean.? 

The point can be adduced if we note, first, that the isolario has a very brief 
life span in the history of cartography. In the incunabular age it begins with Sonetti, 
is developed with telling changes in Bordone, and then acquires a different aspect 
when printed with maps drawn on copperplate in Tommaso Porcacchi’s Isolario 
of 1574. It becomes the basis of André Thevet’s great “breviary” of ethnography 
(the famous description belongs to Claude Lévi-Strauss) in Les Singularités de la 
France antarctique (Paris, 1557 and Antwerp, 1558) and La Cosmographie 
universelle (Paris, 1575) and his unpublished Grand pilotage et insulaire (circa 
1584). The genre then disappears under the advent of the far more veracious shape 
of the Ortelian atlas that commands the European market as of 1570. 

Second, the space of time in which it lives attests to its ethnographic virtue, 
to its viability as a form that can move toward alterity without assimilating or 
allegorizing the strangeness it confronts.* If we take as a correlative creation Alonso 


3. Time and again Jean-Frangois Lyotard remarks that computers are impoverished because 
they have never been children. They have never had the good fate of being stupid, 
recalcitrant, lazy, thoughtful, listless, passionate, in utter frustration for lack of words or, 
in a term that has currency in criticism: dialogic. Computers have not had to take into 
account “this double fact of death and birth on the one hand and sexual difference on the 
other” (“Oikos,” in Political Writings, tr. Bill Readings and Kevin Paul Geiman. Minneapolis: 
University of Minnesota Press, 1993, p. 102). The innocuous maps by Sonetti and Bordone 
put forward the relation to the unknown that is tied to childhood, and to birth, death, and 
difference as well. Their islands allow to be made manifest “something that has not become 
public, that has not become communicational, that has not become systemic” (103), in other 
words, something vitally ecological. 


4. Frank Lestringant has repeatedly shown that a brief “ethnographic” moment exists in 
the odd shape of André Thevet’s oeuvre, and that its way of opening itself onto to difference 
contrasts with later ethnographic literature, such as that of Jean de Léry or Théodore de 
Bry, that puts new information into pre-molded allegories. Lestringant verifies in material 
and compelling ways that seems to be on the part of Lévi-Strauss (in Tristes Tropiques) an 
allusive perception. In “Fortunes de la singularité 4 la Renaissance: le genre de |’‘Isolario’,” 
reprinted in Ecrire le monde a la Renaissance (Caen: Paradigme, 1993, pp. 17-48), he notes 
that “the island on the map appears closed upon itself; it might enclose, in the frame thus 
drawn by its limits, a singular object accompanied by its legend. Through a simple 
juxtaposition of singular units, the island engenders the archipelago, that in the sixteenth 
century becomes one of the forms best able to contain the infinite and repetitive constellation 
of objects of science” (41). The author of this paper would like to underscore that nonetheless 
the relation with the unknown still inheres in the fascination generating both the form and 
process (and not just the scientific results) of the isolario and, as a topic for future work, 
that the sonnet can also be a candidate for treatment of ethnography by way of the industry 


Virtual Reality and the Isolario 127 


de Santa Cruz’s Islario general de todas las islas del mundo, which was written 
in manuscript and completed before 1548, probably 1542, for Charles V of Spain, 
we discover a no less composite creation of texts and 112 maps.’ For the modern 
reader, affirms Francoise Naudé, the manuscripts have the look of a semiotic soup, 
a minestrone of shapes that defy easy transcription. “Un lecteur moderne a besoin 
d’une certaine présentation typographique pour lire le texte, alors que le manuscrit, 
au contraire, ne distingue ni phrases, ni paragraphes. De méme le souci moderne 
de distinguer, classer, ordonner, se heurte au fait qu’a l’époque toutes les 
informations avancent de front: histoire de la conquéte, connaissance des habitants 
et du pays, reconnaissance des lieux conquis, etc...” (46), unlike what is far more 
ordered in the work of Fernandez de Oviedo. Although Santa Cruz, a virtual traveler 
who “simulated” the findings of Oviedo by copying them in Spain, hardly saw what 
he depicted, he nonetheless entirely changes the style of the account of conquest 
that he receives, casting adrift his author’s “dramatization” in favor of objectivity. 
“Ce qui est remarquable, c’est la sobriété des moyens qui permettent de présenter 
les faits dans un esprit différent, plus objectif, réaliste, impartial” (56), and above 
all, it can be added, despite the circumstances of the writing of the /slario, ina 
tone that is hardly imperial. 

At this point we are probably beginning to wonder what Sonetti, Bordone, or 
even Alonso da Santa Cruz, have to do with what the title that this paper has 
announced a “virtual reality”. The point is disarmingly simple. It is merely that 
that the altered consciousness of space that we gain from increased use of “webs,” 
“internets,” “websites,” and “interactive” apparatus allows us a means of looking 
at what has been taken to be stable and historically complete documents—in this 
case the isolario—in unforeseen ways. I am not arguing that by putting Sonetti 
or Bordone on a CD Rom or by interfacing images from these different ‘solarii 
we can be ina better position to understand the impact of the vision of the world 
as an infinity of islands, or that the fragmented relation of land and sea extends 
us, aS SO many advertisements wish to make us believe, into a thousand points of 
light in an infinity of things large and small. Nor would I like to suggest that we 
can travel by virtual means through the islands more quickly with new technology 
than in the past, with a technology that purveys the romance, that seemed to inhere 
in age of travel, about what at that time had been lost by Christendom to the Turks 
(that therefore a space eroticized and desired), or what in the New World was under 
the throes of colonial mismanagement, despite hues of a Golden Age in which the 
nations bathed. 

Rather, what is being advanced is close to the commonplace of a future past, 


of its form. 


5. Francoise Naudé, Reconnaissance du Nouveau Monde et cosmographie a la Renaissance 
(Kassel: Reichenberger, 1992), pp. 31-45 and passim. 


128 TOM CONLEY 


but not a future that the past, many historians seem confident in believing, that has 
already been able to account for. For amateurs of maps and historians of space 
the computer brings out dimensions that in any event had been latent but always 
present in incunabular and early modern print culture. The correlation of advanced 
technology of our age with the experimental map in printed cartography in the 
Renaissance, shows that for the last five hundred years we are liable to be 
reconfiguring space in ways that can be tested by analogy, at once the worst and 
the best of methods of trial, error, and experiment. What was taken to be a 
“spatialization” of the world in the Renaissance, that is made manifest in the printed 
isolario before the advent of Ramist logic, is already familiar to the computer-hacker 
or “surfer.”° For us the island-book that Bartolomeo dalli Sonetti heralds in 1485 
seems to be congruent with several components of spatial process that we are now 
taking to be axiomatic when “interfacing,” “internetting,” and so forth become 
a crystallized fact. 

First, information is made frangible, its alterity is pulverized and emulsified 
into readily assimilable, digestible units or “bytes” that can be seen, comprehended, 
memorized, vectored, and turned about in the flash of an instant. The concept of 
the ‘island’ that supersedes the ‘continent’ revives an archaic geography (Macrobius 
and Lucretius, among others) in which wholes and parts become coextensive, but 
endowed with an infinite possibility of difference. Asa result, second, modular 
thinking comes with the isolario, but it comes forward in our imagination of the 
past no doubt because computors have fostered the conditions allowing us to think 
of them in that way. What Michel de Certeau called the “le pensable” is altered 
to a degree on superimposed maps of space and time.’ The latter require movement 
in and about a virtual world that simulates on computer-screens the sum of 
knowledge, space, language, and desire, but they also encourage regression in ways 
that capture an imagination that dwells with dialogical intensity on forms, such as 
minimal cartographic signs, that seem to be either impoverished or of limited 
meaning, prior to the moment they display how much they belong to a process of 
meaning discerned as transformation. 

Thus, second, huge forms that defy the imagination, such as new worlds or 
new universes, can be assimilated by a supple taxonomic process that coordinates 


6. In the preface to the 1983 reedition of Ramus, Method, and the Decay of Dialogue 
(Cambridge: Harvard University Press), Father Walter J. Ong notes that Ramus’s binary 
dichotomized charts bear strong resemblance to “digital computer programs. Like computer 
programs, the Ramist dichotomies were designed to be heuristic: they belong to the part 
of logic knownas ‘invention,’ that is, finding” (viii), in other words, “retrieving” something 
lost or unknown that cannot be classified, that is subject to a “search” far more laborious 
than what a user of a MacIntosh obtains by simultaneously striking the “control” and “F” 
keys before typing into a box the item that needs to be located. 


7. L’Ecriture de l'histoire (Paris: Gallimard, 1982), p. 131. 


Virtual Reality and the Isolario 129 


visible and discursive formations (island-pictures and legends) that can extend at 
will. For Sonetti, the Aegean itinerary comprises the only limit, but its borders 
are entirely provisional and is thus liable to be extended as time, information, and 
energy permit. By contrast, for Bordone, a much more careful delineation of two 
endpoints, Venice and Mexico City, allows the infinite range of singularity—strange 
customs, historical quirks, miracles, effects of chronicle and legend, new 
information, and so on—to fall within a design depicted by inversely articulated 
city views. Venice, the site of the publication of the text, is the city of “1,000 
islands” (hence an infinity), is opposed in the first book to Temistitan, the City 
that is an island surrounded by a lake and a whole new world. In between we 
discover an alluvial extension, an unfolding of infinite type and shapes. For the 
viewer of both Sonetti and Bordone virtually anything can be contained within the 
jagged outline of a figment of the imagination that takes the spatial form of an island. 
Each unit, however, becomes something of an “island-byte,” or a quantum of 
information, like an enzyme, that can be drawn to fit into complementary and 
contiguous islands or to establish contrasts and congruences over the entire globe 
and within the body itself. In a historical sense, the idea is close to the infinity 
of possibilities that were suggested by islands beyond the range of the experience 
of Marco Polo, but in the ideological frame in which we live (and through which 
we have the pleasure of being condemned to study the isolario), the idea is translated 
into the very virtuality of infinite combination and circulation of contained “bytes” 
of desire (in other words, epistemophilia, the erotic drive to contain the world in 
a disk, but also to get strangled in the web that also determines what one can desire 
to know). 

Most important is what, so far, has gone unmentioned but remains glaringly 
clear in the brief comparison of the two island-books. Sonetti tells his reader that 
an island is coextensive with a sonnet. The reiteration of the “form of the content” 
of each island and its description shows that an infinity of knowledge can be mapped 
out by virtue of the sonnet. “No man is an island...”: but a sonnet, a production 
of “man,” intends to be the container or vehicle that can assimilate all human drive 
to know and to register the world. In both the Petrarchan tradition and the /solario 
the writing of the sonnet becomes a practice that spatializes knowledge in terms 
of a drive to contain the world within an infinity of variation on the same form. 
The erotic dimension so characteristic of the genre is revealed to be a function of 
space: to love is to move into and about a space whose limits, that whet desire, 
are both island-shores and the constraints of a lyrical model. The sonnet and the 
island become a field of difference and variation that allows science and drive to 
become indistinguishable. 

It leads, too, to the strange process, so modern and so archaic, that inaugurates 
the experimental process in Montaigne’s remarks about le desir de connoisance, 
which is based ona blending of difference and resemblance. The process engages 
the logic of bifurcation or “bussing,” essential to computers, that is everywhere 


130 TOM CONLEY 


obvious in the “visible” and “discursive” formations of the Essais: 


I] n’est desir plus naturel que le desir de connoissance. Nous essayons tous les 
moyens qui nous y peuvent mener. Quand la raison nous faut, nous y employons 
l’experience, 

Per varios usus artem experientia fecit: 

Exemplo monstrante viam, 
qui est un moyen plus fiable et moins digne; mais la verité est chose si grande, 
que nous ne devons desdaigner aucune entremise qui nous y conduise. La raison 
a tant de formes, que nous ne sgavons a laquelle nous prendre; l’experience n’en 
a pas moins. La consequence que nous voulons tirer de la resemblances des 
evenemens est mal seure, d’autant qu’ils sont tousjours dissemblables: il n’est 
aucune qualité si universelle en cette image des choses que la diversité et varieté.* 


In this view, the “event” that produces knowledge “happens” to be the apprehension 
of a singularity (that is, an island or an insularity) that can, like variation ona given 
form, be sublimely superficial in its reproducibility. The “experience” offered by 
the proximity of the island-book to the sonnet demonstrates that what Montaigne 
is defining as a desire for knowledge in no way sustains the myth that surrounds 
him and other figures of the Renaissance about Humanistic relativism. Difference 
may be ordered in a register of islands or a cycle of sonnets, but it cannot be 
redeemed by any overriding similarity of a triumphal anthropomorphism. Difference, 
like the islands of Sonetti and Bordone, that were at once amebae and human faces, 
monsters and profiles of strange, unnameable things, can only be charted or 
“webbed” in a taxonomy that cannot contain them. 

What we are discovering in the electronic world affirms, as does the verbal 
and the cartographical relation that the well-named Bartolomeo da Sonetti crafts 
between the sonnet and a book of singularities, pertains to what the late Gilles 
Deleuze called philosophy as a mode of “surfing.” It does not exactly mean the 
activity that is called “surfing the net,” but of moving over and about an “archipela- 
go” of concepts, conceived as “absolute surfaces or volumes, inchoate [difforme] 
and fragmentary,” while contemplation, the condition in which alterity can be 
welcomed, involves the simultaneous perception of infinite “singularities” or 
spaceless points “concentrated in one surface and disseminated into another.”? 
If our imagination of the drive of philosophy that Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari 
offer through this figure is driven by the current force of the computer, the latter 
is also related to the isolario. 


Harvard University 


8. Essais, ed. Albert Thibaudet (Paris: Gallimard/Pléiade, 1950), pp. 1194-1195. 


9. Gilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, Qu’est-ce que la philosophie (Paris: Minuit, 1991), 
pp. 39 and 203. 


ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


El libro de viajes, la ficci6n y sus legados 
en los Naufragios 
de Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca 


Puede consignarse, con alguna certeza que, en el mundo hispAnico, los libros de 
viajes casi siempre han suscitado nociones contradictorias. Al valorarlos no hemos 
sabido, a punto fijo, qué hacer con ellos’. Reconocemos, eso si, sus multiples 
enlaces con la historiografia y mds aun con las letras de creacién pero en todo caso 
seguimos calibrandolos como materia descentrada. Por otra parte, habitualmente 
se ha confirmado—en términos cuantitativos—la riqueza que esa modalidad narrativa 
alcanz6 en Espafia y América, sobre todo a partir del siglo XV. Mas adelante, 
tendremos oportunidad de comprobar esas aseveraciones. Pero como saldo 
preliminar convendremos en que es poco lo que en verdad sabemos sobre la hechura 
evasiva de esos textos. Sospecho que es asi porque de ordinario las pesquisas 
centradas en las narraciones de viajes no han superado los esquemas del resumen 
O de la noticia bibliografica. Inevitablemente la carencia a que aludo se hace mas 
patente cuando descubrimos la variedad de tratados que sobre esos libros se han 
escrito en Italia, Francia 0 en el mundo de habla inglesa®. Acaso para contrarres- 
tar—en proporciones muy discretas—el vacio que he subrayado, comentaré un libro 
que a lo largo de siglos ha complacido a lectores de toda indole. Me refiero a los 
Naufragios (1542) del andaluz Alvar Nifiez Cabeza de Vaca*. Concretamente, 
en las notas que siguen aclaro la ubicaci6n de este curioso texto asi como los casi 


1. Con admirable erudici6n Angel Gomez Moreno describe en una obra reciente Espana 
yla Italia de los humanistas (Madrid: Gredos, 1994), las fortunas y vicisitudes de la narrativa 
viajera en la Espafia renacentista, pp. 296-332. 


2. Constltese Barbara W. Fick, El libro de viajes en la Espanta medieval (Santiago de Chile; 
Editorial Universitaria, 1976). 


3. Ese legado se suscita, por ejemplo, en dos obras seminales que versan sobre los 
descubrimientos americanos. Antonello Gerbi, La naturaleza de las Indias nuevas: de Cristébal 
Colon a Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo (México, Fondo de Cultura Econémica, 1978. Hay 
ediciones italianas e inglesas. Ver también John H. Elliott, El viejo y el nuevo mundo (1492- 
1650) (Madrid, Alianza Editorial, 1970). 


4. Ver mi edicidn critica de este texto (Madrid, Castalia, 1992). 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


132 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


surepticios vinculos que existen entre la narracién de Cabeza de Vaca y el legado 
ret6rico que acumularon la prosa de ficcién y la historiografia renacentista. 

Sorprenderé, en alguna medida, que me interese elucidar convergencias de esa 
naturaleza en el texto de Alvar Nujiez. Lo afirmo asi porque tradicionalmente se 
ha celebrado la redaccién escueta y descarnada que resalta en los Naufragios. Al 
parecer, lo mejor de este libro se cifra en la representacién de los mds elementales 
regocijos, 0 en la observacién capaz de revelar lo que pueda haber de excepcional 
en el mas estélido hecho cotidiano’. Ciertamente, la escritura de Nufiez refleja 
las vivencias de un ser humano que conocié todos los ayunos imaginables y que 
como tal celebraba, con pueril alegria, el logro de una miserable vitualla®. No 
obstante, tras la impavidez y lisura de sus testimonios yacen niveles de elaboracién 
que mas de una vez confirman la atenuada calidad y finura de sus escritos. Pero 
antes de calar en esas dimensiones del texto conviene esbozar lo que en este libro 
se relata. En treinta y ocho breves capitulos, los Naufragios refieren las vicisitudes 
de una expedicién que en 1527 desembarcé en la Florida con el afaén de conquistar, 
para Castilla, aquellas casi miticas regiones’. De las 600 personas que participaron 
en esa aventura sobrevivirian cuatro; un marroqui y tres espafioles. Casi una década 
vivieron estos naufragos entre tribus némadas que a duras penas bregaban en la 
penumbra del paleolitico americano*. Asi, maltrechos y desnudos los cuatro 
atravesaron las hindéspitas Areas comprendidas entre la costa oeste de la Florida y 
la capital de Nueva Espaifia (México). Ese inusitado acontecer fue relatado 
principalmente por Alvar Nijfiez’. 

La informaciédn que hoy conocemos sobre Cabeza de Vaca y sus antepasados 
parece vincularle, histéricamente, con un amplio horizonte de navegaciones 
espectaculares, conquistas y leyendas'®. Lo que seguramente él no sospecho es 
que sus escritos breves se convertirian, con el paso de los afios, en importante hito 
de una tradicién narrativa de aventuras y viajes: tradici6n que se remonta a la 
antigiiedad clasica y al mundo semitico, y que reapareceria con inusitada vitalidad 


5. Ver, por ejemplo, el cap. XXII. 
6. En los caps. X, XI y XII, Nunez ofrece testimonios de esa indole. 


7. Ver David Weber, The Spanish Frontier in North America (New Haven, Yale University 
Press, 1992). 


8. Me refiero a las tribus coahuiltecas y carancaguas que habitaron las costas e inmediaciones 
del Golfo de México. Ver mi edicién, pp. 59-65. 


9. La relacién de Cabeza de Vaca sufrid por lo menos tres versiones. Las dos primeras 
fueron redactadas colectivamente. Ver en mi edicidn el apartado sobre la evolucién del 
texto, pp. 125-132. 


10. Recordemos que antepasados de Alvar Nuifiez estuvieron involucrados en la aventura 
maritima y conquistadora que supuso la conquista de las islas Canarias. Ver mi edicion, 
el apartado que resume la semblanza biografica de Cabeza de Vaca, pp. 82-87. 


El libro de viajes, la ficci6én y sus legados en los Naufragios 133 


imaginativa en los siglos XV y XVI''. Resumir aqui ese vasto legado de textos 
seria inoportuno y me obligaria a una serie amplisima e injusta de omisiones. Sin 
embargo, algunas precisiones pueden hacerse, que nos serviran para constatar, ante 
todo, a la inmensa riqueza de esas modalidades narrativas, y también para sefialar 
las dificultades que esos textos suponen cuando se intenta una gesti6n clasifica- 
dora’*. Sin abordar obras cldsicas como la Odisea, la Eneida y las Metamorfosis, 
asi como los linajes que derivan de esos textos seminales, advertiremos que buena 
parte de la historiografia grecoromana también esté estrechamente vinculada a esa 
casi infinita narrativa de viajes. Al describir, por ejemplo, los paisajes de Lidia 
y Sus regiones adyacentes, Herodoto se detiene con la curiosidad propia del viajero, 
para delinear “monumentos y costumbres de los lidios” (I, 93.2)'%. Alli, al 
descifrar el contenido de epitafios e inscripciones, una vez mAs se dejara llevar por 
su imaginacién para recopilar datos que emanan de sus propias suposiciones”*. 
Igualmente astutas e interesantes pueden ser las especulaciones que, en otros 
momentos, le llevan a discernir los confines del mundo occidental'°. 
Comentarios muy similares podrian hacerse sobre las “embajadas a Roma” 
que, con el habitual tesén de sus escripulos, nos relata Polibio en el libro XXIV 
de su Historias'®; y otro tanto puede afiadirse sobre las descripciones que Orosio 
ofrece en sus Historias nada menos que sobre “la situacién de todo el orbe y del 
nombre y extensi6n de las regiones en que est4 dividido”'’. Enla tradicién romana 
el mismo Cicerén, en su De Oratore habia indicado que “la elaboracién de una 
obra historiografica se basa en el contenido y en la forma, pero el contenido exige 
la descripci6n minuciosa de sitios y regiones” (Legitus I, 5). El repaso brevisimo 
de esos textos primordiales nos interesa, no como mero respaldo erudito de la gesti6n 


11. La resonancia internacional de los Naufragios se registra en numerosas obras antes 
citadas y mas recientemente en dos importantes estudios. Entre ellos destacan: Samuel Eliot 
Morison, The European Discovery of America: The Southern Voyages, 1492-1616 (New 
York: Oxford University Press, 1974), pp. 516-528 y Boies Penrose, Travel and Discovery 
in The Renaissance: 1420-1620 (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1952). 


12. Ladisparidad inherente a ese material se aprecia en la conocida obra de Phillip B. Gove, 
The Imaginary Voyage in Prose Fiction (New York: Columbia University Press, 1941). 
Esta obra repasa casi todos los estudios clasicos sobre la narrativa de viajes. 


13. Historias (I-V1). Ed. de Carlos Schrader (Madrid: Gredos, 1977). Todas las citas 
provienen de esta edicién. No olvidemos que los métodos historiograficos de Herodoto eran 
tema muy discutido en el siglo XVI. Ver: A. D. Momigliano, “The Place of Herodotus 
in the History of Historiography”, History, vil (1958), 1-13. 


14. La transcripci6n que Herodoto ofrece de los textos que aparecen en las piramides egipcias 
son, como es sabido, elucubraciones suyas (ibid., VI 53 (6.D.3). 


is. Ibid... THOS, 212). 
16. Historias, XXIV, 1, 230, ed. de Manuel Balash Recort (Madrid: Gredos, 1983). 
17. Historias (1, 2, 86), Ed. de E. Sanchez Salor (Madrid: Gredos, 1982). 


134 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


investigadora, sino porque pone en evidencia la importante raiz historiografica de 
la narrativa de viajes. Al evocar aqui las proporciones inmensas de esa tradicién 
narrativa, que se reafirma en los Naufragios, queda sugerida otra vertiente de libros, 
en gran parte imaginarios, que exhibe, entre sus mejores ejemplos, textos de 
Jenofonte, Eratéstenes y Mariano de Tiro. Con ellos, y con las amplias visiones 
de una geografia imaginaria—también defendida por Plat6n—se ensanchaba casi 
ilimitadamente la oikumene alejandrina (235-323 a.C.); ampliacién que se llevé 
a cabo sobre todo en las rutas que han marcado, desde entonces, tanto la actividad 
exploratoria como los libros de viajes. En Roma, Estrab6n continuaria ese proceso 
amplificatorio que elucidaba, ala vez, espacios geogrdficos y culturales, pero hoy 
sabemos que el alcance de su labor descriptiva se vio superada por la Historia natural 
(79 a.C.) de Plinio el Viejo. Este ultimo es uno de los libros mds sugestivos de 
su tiempo; libro, ademds, que tan profundo impacto tendria sobre la narrativa de 
viajes y la historiografia novomundista del siglo XVI'*. Todo ese trasunto noticioso 
e imaginativo se reescribiria en América, s6lo que siempre con la mezcla de 
ansiedades y fervor que de ordinario puede suscitar lo que nos es totalmente 
desconocido. 

Contra lo que podria suponerse, el declive que trajo consigo la decadencia 
romana y la baja Edad Media no atenuaron radicalmente la produccién de relatos 
en torno a viajes y sitios fabulosos. Si bien el estudio de la geografia se vio 
disminuido en sus aspectos cientificos, también debe sefialarse que la sefialada 
autoridad de la patristica cosmografica marc6 nuevos derroteros imaginarios para 
la relaci6n geografica. Hoy sabemos que las ilusorias visiones del mundo fisico 
que concebié el Medioevo engendraron un nimero cuantioso de leyendas que se 
manifestaron en tratados y libros muy disimiles, asi como en una pr6édiga narrativa 
hagiografica de raiz popular. Aquel mundo discernido en torno a Jerusalén, y 
fertilizado por rios que fluian desde zonas paradisiacas, ciertamente no seria 
confirmado en todos sus aspectos por San Agustin, Alberto Magno o San Isidro”, 
pero si lo fue por muchos otros que estaban mas afectados por la devocién 
proselitista que por el limitado saber que posefan”’. 

As admirable, al mismo tiempo, que ese vasto trasunto de fantasias geograficas 
tuviese una considerable influencia en proyectos de navegaci6n y descubrimientos 
que se iniciaron en el Renacimiento; proyectos que se ejemplifican en las gestiones 


18. El historiador inglés John H. Elliott ha sefialado el impacto de Plinio en la Historia 
general y natural de Indias de G. Fernandez de Oviedo. Ver: El viejo y el Nuevo Mundo: 
1492-1650 (Madrid: Alianza Editorial, 1970), p. 46. 


19. Penrose, p. 7. 


20. Son famosos, en ese orden, los desmanes descriptivos del monje misionero Cosmas 
(540 d. D.). Es curioso que entre 1290 aproximadamente y 1400 apenas aparecen tratados 
de geografia como tal (Ibid., p. 8). 


El libro de viajes, la ficcién y sus legados en los Naufragios 135 


que inicia la Corona portuguesa, a partir de los reinados de Juan II y Enrique el 
Navegante”’. Parad6éjicamente, mas influencia tendrian sobre Col6n que sobre 
los pragmaticos marinos portugueses aquellas imaginarias descripciones y calculos 
que contenian la famosa Imago mundi, del obispo francés Pierre d’ Ailly, asi como 
la Geografta de Tolomeo: esta ultima, probablemente en la edicién traducida por 
Jacobus Angelus (1310-1406)”. Pero sin desvirtuar el alcance indiscutible de 
los libros antes citados, la sintesis mAs atrevida y popularizada de mitos clasicos, 
biblicos y medievales—sobre geografias imaginarias—se habia reunido en los 
afamados Viajes de Juan de Mandeville; libro éste que también figuré entre las obras 
y tratados que consult6 Colén”. Habrian de pasar muchos afios antes que ese 
voluminoso contingente de ficciones cosmograficas fuese desvirtuado por las 
revelaciones facticas que hicieron posible los descubrimientos americanos”. 
Pero antes de seguirle la pista a hechos y a personajes que exacerbaron la 
imaginaciOn europea de fines del siglo XV, y principios del XVI, me parece 
necesario aludir—en una pesquisa de esta indole—a un vasto legado de libros y 
narraciones que se produjeron en aquel contexto histérico y que hoy aparecen como 
un sugestivo telén de fondo para la historiografia de Indias. Los que ahora recuerdo 
son, casi todos, libros espafioles que apenas se han estudiado a fondo pero que, 
indirectamente, anticipan muchas de las proyecciones imaginativas y de los recursos 
expositivos que se utilizarian para describir el Nuevo Mundo”. En conjunto, se 
trata de narraciones inspiradas, a distancia, en el ambular caballeresco, en la 
hagiografia del Medioevo, en la novela bizantina y en acontecimientos histéricos 
que retenian un sesgo heroico”’. Asi, Andrés Bernaldez (?-1513) (el Cura de los 
Palacios) en su Historia de los Reyes Catolicos ... (edicién de 1856), enlaza ya las 
morosas relaciones habituales de los reinados castellanos con el despertar casi 


21. Para el resumen mas lticido sobre ese periodo, ver: Daniel J. Boorstin The Discoverers 
(New York: Random House, 1985), pp. 256-289. 


22. La tortuosa trayectoria de la Geografia, la elucida Penrose, p. 10. 


23. Los que hayan leido con cuidado las descripciones de China y reinos nérdicos que expone 
Mandeville, podran verificar que Col6n le ley6 con mas fascinacién que minuciosidad. He 
consultado la ediciOn inglesa de A.W. Pollar (Londres: McMillan & Co., 1923), pp. 139-162. 


24. Los avances tecnoldégicos y de complicada artesanja que se llevarona cabo en los siglos 
XVI y XVII los expone Carla Phillips en su excelente estudio Six Galleons for the King of 
Spain (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1986). 


25. Se ha estudiado el impacto de la historiografia clasica, medieval y renacentista sobre 
las cronicas de Indias. Pero no se ha explorado la posible relacién de esos libros de 
viajes—tan conocidos en el siglo XV—con las relaciones de historiadores novomundistas. 


26. Sobre la dimension heroica e imaginativa de la historiografia medieval espafiola constiltese 
el muy valioso estudio de Robert Tate, Ensayos sobre la historiografia peninsular del siglo 
XV (Madrid: Editorial Gredos, 1970). Hay edicién inglesa. 


136 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


alucinado que produjo el descubrimiento del Nuevo Mundo. Es un momento aquél 
en que la fabulacién histérica cuenta con no pocos ejemplos’’. Propios de esa 
tradici6n castellana son los Hechos del condestable Miguel Lucas de Iranzo y \a 
Crénica de don Pedro Nifio. Pero mucho més interés tiene la narracié6n de Ruy 
Gonzalez de Clavijo, autor de la famosa Historia del Gran Tamorldn. En ella se 
narran las supuestas gestiones que hace Enrique III de Castilla para engraciarse 
con el gran Tamorldn de Persia. Casi todo su asunto deriva en un libro de viajes 
y en curiosas viiietas de ciudades y reinos entre los que figuran Gaeta, Mesina, 
Roda y Constantinopla. La narraci6n se demora, particularmente, en la descripci6n 
de costumbres y peculiaridades culturales de diferentes sociedades, anticipando de 
esa manera elementos formales de la picaresca, asi como los registros tematicos 
y expresivos de la crénica de Indias®. Pero todavia mds significativas, por su 
complejidad y refinamiento expositivo, son las Andanzas y viajes de Pedro Tafur 
por diversas partes del mundo (1435-1439). 

En los relatos de Tafur abundan descripciones muy logradas de ciudades 
egipcias, griegas, alemanas, turcas e italianas. En Italia, Tafur se encontrara nada 
menos que con el prédigo Niccolo Conti, veneciano de familia ilustre y viajero 
incansable por el Cercano Oriente, quien a su vez compartié un cimulo muy amplio 
de noticias con Tafur. Conti, al parecer, se interes6 principalmente por la 
descripci6n muy vivida que el espafiol habia logrado sobre la decadencia de 
Constantinopla’’; ciudad sobre la que Tafur intercala varias leyendas, entonces 
en boga, pero mas all4 del deleite que le producen esas ficciones, Tafur expone 
el criterio utilitario y ret6rico en que deben basarse los libros de viajes. Son textos, 
segun él, que a todos benefician ya que en ellos puede alcanzarse un nivel 
cognoscitivo muy amplio de realidades geogrdaficas y culturales. En su interesante 
prologo, Tafur nos dice que mediante estos libros podremos “venir en conocimiento 
de lo mds provechoso de la cosa publica e establecimiento della”*. Vinculados 
a esas perspectivas y a esa tradici6n narrativa aparecen en Castilla otros libros como 
Seguro de Tordesillas, de Pedro Rodriguez de Velazco, y también el conocido Libro 
del Passo Honrosso de Suero de Quinofes, original de Pedro Rodriguez de Lena. 
Los sucesos de estirpe caballeresca que se relatan en esta ultima obra estén 


27. Destacan, entre esos textos, las arengas imaginarias y las descripciones hiperbdélicas 
de acciones militares que aparecen en la Crdnica de los Reyes Catélicos (1935) de Alonso 
Flores (-1476). 


28. Ver: Stephen Gilman, “Bernal Diaz del Castillo and Amadis de Gaula”, en Homenaje 
a Damaso Alonso (Madrid: Gredos, 1970), pp. 99-114. 


29. Penrose, entre otros, comenta esa relacién, casi de caracter novelesco, p. 23. 


30. Andangas e viajes de Pero Tafur por diversas partes del mundo auidos, ed. de José 
Ramos (Madrid: Asociacién de Libreros, 1934). Observemos cuan préximos estan los 
razonamientos de Tafur a las matizaciones que Niifez hace en su proemio a los Naufragios. 


El libro de viajes, la ficcién y sus legados en los Naufragios 137 


parcialmente documentados en la Crénica de Juan II y en los conocidos anales de 
Zorita®*'. 


La que he resumido aqui es una secuencia de textos—mdas amplia de lo que 
podria suponerse—que anticipan el deambular picaresco y los vericuetos de la crénica 
indiana. En ellos se proponen, ademds, formas de la verosimilitud hist6rica que 
enel siglo XVI motivaron polémicas bien conocidas entre Antonio de Guevara (148 1- 
1545), Pedro de Riia (1480-1558), Ambrosio Morales (1513-1591) y otros humanistas 
e historiédgrafos de la época®”. Particularmente en los libros de viajes se formulaba 
toda una nueva epistemologia del viajar, concebida ésta como actividad simbélica 
de una existencia cifrada en el afan de conocer y revelar; avidez que por duplicado 
se revela en el Quijote’). Otros libros de aquellos siglos, minuciosamente 
estudiados por Angel Delgado Gémez™, como el Aromatum de G. Garcia Orta—que 
a su vez habia traducido el naturalista portugués Carlos Clusio—reaparecera4n con 
notable frecuencia en el contexto literario del siglo XVI*°. La necesidad de viajar 
era propugnada por la filosofia natural, elucidada, en parte, por Hipécrates, segun 
la cual el conocimiento cientifico s6lo es firme si se apoya en una inspeccién 
meticulosa del entorno*. Se vivia entonces un momento histérico en el que, con 
obvia inquietud renacentista, muchos se interesaban por desvelar los misterios 
infinitos del mundo que los rodeaba. En 1555 exactamente el mismo afio en que 
se publican—en segunda edicién Vallisoletana—los Naufragios de Alvar Nujfiez, 
también saldra a la luz un libro de suma importancia que pertenecia a esa larga 
tradicién de relatos de viajes que he esbozado. Se trata del Viaje de Turquta (1555) 
obra de autor desconocido, dedicada a Felipe II, y en la que se comenta explicita- 
mente la actividad viajera. Aparta4ndose de las acciones heroicas que tanto 


31. Ver: Ralph H. Vigil, Alonso de Zorita: Royal Judge and Christian Humanist, que en 
breve publicara la University of Oklahoma Press. 


32. Ver: La vocacion literaria del pensamiento historico en América: siglos XVI-XIX (Madrid: 
Gredos, 1982), pp. 15-80. 


33. Aludo no solo a las andanzas del protagonista como acto cognitivo, sino ademas a la 
duplicacidn interior de esa curiosidad, ejemplificada de otra manera en los relatos interpolados 
de “El curioso impertinente” y “El cautivo”. 


34. “El viaje como medio de conocimiento: el Viaje de Turquia” , trabajo que se publicara 
en las Actas del VIII Congreso de la Asociacion Internacional de Hispanistas. 


35. La edicién mas asequible del fascinante Aromatum es la de Lisboa: Junta de Investigacio- 
nes de Ultramar, 1964. Este libro guarda relaciones -en cuanto a sistema descriptivo de 
flora y fauna- con obras como la Historia general de Fernandez de Oviedo y los Comentarios 
reales del Inca Garcilaso, entre otras. 


36. De interés en este contexto es la obra de Christian K. Zacher, Curiosity and Pilgrimage 
(Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1976); obra que se discute en el ensayo antes 
citado de A. Delgado. 


138 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


interesaban a Tafur, en el Viaje de Turquia se expone la necesidad de poseer otros 
tipos de conocimientos. En la dedicatoria leemos: 


Aquel insaciable y desenfrenado deseo de saber y conoscer que natura puso en 
todos los hombres, César invictisimo, subjetandonos de tal manera que nos fuerza 
a leer sin fructo ninguno fabulas y fictiones, no puede mejor executarse que con 
la peregrinaciOn y ver de tierras extraflas, considerando en quanta angustia se 
enzierra el 4nimo y entendimiento que esta siempre en un lugar sin poder extenderse 
y especular la infinita grandeza de este mundo, y por esto Homero, tinico padre 
y autor de todos los buenos estudios, habiendo de proponer a su Ulixes por perfecto 
dechado de virtud y sabiduria, no sabe de que manera se entona, mas alto, que 
con estas palabras: “Aytidame a cantar 0 musa! un varén que vio muchas tierras 
y diversas costumbres de hombres” * 


Otro viajero, Pierre Belon, se trasladar4 a Turquia para hacernos, desde alli, 
revelaciones similares; y en su relato titulado Les observations, abogara, con la 
curiosidad del naturalista, en favor de esa labor cognoscitiva que encierra el 
viajar’®. Sabemos que desde el siglo XV—y anteriormente—existi6 toda una 
documentada tradici6n apologética de la narracién viajera; tradicidn que en la Edad 
Media se vio intensificada por los ciclos narrativos inspirados en las cruzadas y 
las peregrinaciones a los santos lugares. Pero més que ratificar ese hecho, 
ampliamente reconocido por la historiografia literaria, quiero destacar ahora una 
modalidad singularizada de ese discurso de viajeros que alcanz6 gran difusi6n en 
la narrativa renacentista mediterranea, y que Ocupa numerosos sectores de las 
cronicas indianas. Me refiero ahora a los relatos de naufragios®, y en particular 
a las relaciones americanas que prepararon navegantes, soldados, burécratas y 
cronistas. Textos que, hasta bien entrado el siglo XIX, se leyeron en Europa con 
el deleite y hasta el espanto que producian los episodios mds grotescos de la novela 
bizantina y de caballerias. Recordaremos en seguida que ese trasunto inagotable 
de informes y narraciones sobre desastres de la navegacién se retoma, con espléndida 
ingeniosidad, en La tempestad (1610) de Shakespeare; y reaparece con otras 
caracteristicas en la Historia general de las Indias (1552) del humanista Francisco 
L6épez de Gémara; encontraremos en ella descripciones exéticas de la conquista 
de Yucat4n, de la ciudad de Tenochtitlan, de bailes, fdolos y nigromdénticos; 


37. Viaje de Turquia, ed. de Fernando Garcia Salinero (Madrid: Catedra, 1980), pp. 87-88. 


38. El titulo completo de la obra es Les observations des plusieurs singularitez et choses 
memorables trouvees en Grece, Asie, Judee, Egypte, Arabie et autres pays estranges (1558). 


39. Fernando Braudel, en su obra clasica The Mediterranean and the Mediterranean World 
in the Age of Philip II, vol. I! (New York: Harper Torch Books, 1966), ha documentado 
el impacto econdmico y la importancia que en general tenfa el tema de los naufragios y la 
pirateria en el drea mediterranea. I, pp. 276-293; II, pp. 967-1004. Braudel enumera y 
comenta numerosas fuentes bibliograficas sobre estos temas. 


El libro de viajes, la ficcién y sus legados en los Naufragios 139 


narraciones que fueron lefdas con la fascinacién que podian despertar entonces los 
mAs descabellados relatos de ficcién“. Dentro de la secuencia tan desigual de 
hechos y datos que Gémara nos ofrece, destacaran las alusiones a naufragios y 
desastres que experimenté la navegaci6n espafiola en las interminables rutas 
americanas. 

El mismo Gémara aparatosamente relata “La hambre, dolencias, guerra y 
victoria que tuvieron los espafioles por defender sus personas y sus pueblos”; al 
mismo tiempo que nos refiere datos sobre “cocuyos, niguas, animalejos pequefios 
y de lo bueno y lo malo”*', asi como sobre prondsticos de destruccién que afligian 
a La Espafiola. Del mismo modo, también se detendré para relatarnos, con especial 
dramatismo, las vicisitudes de “La famosa nao Vitoria” y las desgracias ocurridas 
en el comercio de las especias”. En otros capitulos, ya préximos a la conclusién 
de su hermosa historia, Gémara nos describira “La espantosa tormenta que hubo 
en Cuauhtemall4n, donde muri6 dofia Beatriz de la Cueva”*?. 

Tomando en consideraci6n los avatares de esas narraciones que tanto prosperaron 
en el siglo XVI“, conviene hacer ahora algunas aclaraciones sobre el cambio de 
titulo que sufrid la relacid6n de Cabeza de Vaca. El profesor chileno Pedro Lastra, 
en un valioso estudio*’, indica que el vocablo “naufragios”—que ya aparece en 
el primer capitulo de la edicién de 1555— venia sugerido en el encabezamiento 
del indice donde se lee: “Tabla de los capitulos contenidos en la presente relacién 
y naufragios del gouernador Aluar Nufiez Cabeza de Vaca”. El nuevo titulo de 
Naufragios debid ser aprobado por el autor cuando éste hizo las numerosas 
correcciones y cambios que aparecen en la edicién de 1555*°. Creo que el cambio 


40. Véanse, entre otros, los siguientes capitulos: “Milagros de la conversiém, p. 53; 
«Conquista de Yucatan”, pp. 77-78; “Frutas y cosas que hay en el Darién”, pp. 14-106. 
Cito por la ed. de Jorge Garcia Lacroix (Caracas: Biblioteca Ayacucho, 1978). 


41. Ibid., pp. 41-49. 
42. Ibid., p. 149. 


43. Ver: José Luis Martinez, La pirateria y Naufragios en Pasajeros de Indias (Madrid: 
Alianza Universidad, 1983), pp. 11-123; 126-130. Otra obra de interés general sobre este 
t6pico es: T. Desperthes y M. Duromensil, Histoire des naufrages, Vol. II (Paris: Thieriot 
Libraire, 1855). 


44. Recordemos que el tema de los naufragios aflora con facilidad en los Comentarios reales 
del Inca Garcilaso; concretamente en el conocido episodio novelesco acerca de Pedro Serrano 
(I, 1, VII); el mismo asunto habia aparecido en la Elegia de varones ilustres de Indias (1522- 
1607) segtin lo ha sefialado José Luis Martinez, p. 121; y también aparece en el famoso 
Carnero (1637) de Juan Rodriguez Freyle; concretamente en el conocido episodio sobre 
Juana Garcia. Véase mi Vocacion..., No. 2, pp. 123-154. 


45. “Los espacios de Alvar Nujfiez; las transformaciones de la escritura”, Cuadernos 
Americanos, CCLIV, 3 (1984), 150-163. 


46. La evoluci6n del texto la comento en el apartado (I,d) de mi edicién. 


140 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


de titulo de Relacién a Naufragios remite directamente al contexto literario e 
historiografico de la época que he descrito en estas paginas. Seguin lo hemos visto, 
el viaje, como actividad que comporta una multitud de revelaciones, ya era uno 
de los grandes temas de la literatura espafiola y europea del siglo XVI*’. Al 
considerar la aceptacién de que disfruté esa suerte de narraciones, creo que el titulo 
de Naufragios fue adoptado—probablemente en consultas con el editor—para insertar 
el texto de Niifiez en esa categoria exitosa de narrativa viajera a la que sin duda 
pertenecia. Como lo veremos a continuaci6n, los Naufragios asimilan varios recursos 
expresivos propios de la prosa de ficcién y, en particular, de relatos y novelas sobre 
viajes ficcionalizados. Mi parecer es que ese cambio de titulo, un tanto oportunista, 
era todavia mas efectivo si se toma en cuenta el sentido, a la vez literal y metaférico, 
que el vocablo “naufragios” retiene globalmente en la narracién de Cabeza de Vaca. 


ECOS DE LA TRADICION LITERARIA EN LOS NAUFRAGIOS 


Sabemos muy bien que el propésito de Cabeza de Vaca no fue escribir ficcién como 
tal. En otras partes de este estudio he subrayado que el marco de su relato se atiene, 
en general, a las codificaciones formalizadas de la relaci6n como modalidad del 
discurso forense. Pero, al transformar su informe a la Corona en libro que 
alcanzaria alguna difusién, los moldes estrechos de la relaci6n se veran superados 
por las exigencias que imponian al texto la directriz autobiografica y la natural 
inclinaci6n del relator por vincular sus testimonios a los cédigos que disfrutaban 
entonces de mayor vigencia entre sus posibles lectores; de ese empefio es testimonio 
el cambio de titulo que se adopt6 ya en la edicidén de 1555. Hasta donde el cotejo 
lo permite, se puede identificar, en la edicién original de 1542, una ligera 
aglutinaciOn de f6rmulas expresivas y t6picos que pertenecian principalmente a la 
narrativa de ficcién. Pero antes de referirme a ellos, reconoceremos que al “hacer 
memoria” (en su Proemio) y construir una narracion autobiografica, los Naufragios 
se transforman gradualmente en metdfora de la existencia de Nujiez; es decir en 
“el libro de una vida”**. Quisiera destacar en este contexto la manifiesta 
circularidad que la narracién exhibe en su peniltimo capitulo”. Nifiez no sdlo 
retorna a su espacio de origen, sino que al abandonar Nueva Espafia, como le ocurrid 


47. Eso se corrobora en textos importantes como el de Crist6bal Gutiérrez de Medina, Viaje 
del virrey de Villena (1640), ed. de Manuel Romero Terreros (México: Imprenta Universitaria, 
1947); y Antonio de Guevara, De muchos trabajos que se pasan en galeras (1539). Ese 
texto, bastante raro, se ofrece como apéndice en la obra antes citada de José L. Martinez, 
pp. 123-234. 


48. Véanse las referencias que hace sobre este conocido t6pico J. Cirlot en su Diccionario 
de simbolos (Barcelona: Nueva Coleccién Labor, 1982), p. 463. 


49. En la apreciacion analitica del texto, y de cara a su reflexividad interior, es de especial 
interés la interpolacién que hace Niifiez de los relatos que le proporcioné Esquivel, cap. 
XVII. 


El libro de viajes, la ficcién y sus legados en los Naufragios 141 


antes de salir de Cuba, se vera amenazado por tempestades y huracanes (Cap. I 
y Cap. XXXVII)*. Principalmente en el primer tercio de los Naufragios las 
tormentas—con el sesgo apocaliptico que tuvieron en la novela bizantina y aun en 
relatos antiquisimos de origen semitico—aparecen y reaparecen como marco inestable 
que preconiza la trayectoria desastrosa que lleva la expedicién. Lo tenebroso ocurre 
como elemento integral de la borrasca y también como emanacién del que la 
contempla. “En esta tempestad y peligro anduuimos toda la noche sin hallar parte 
ni lugar donde media hora pudiéssemos estar seguros. Andando en esto oymos 
toda la noche, especialmente desde el medio della, mucho estruendo y grande ruydo 
de bozes, y gran sonido de cascaueles y de flautas y tamborinos y otros instrumentos 
que duraron hasta la mafiana que la tormenta cess6” (Cap. I). 

El navegar precario que podia lograrse con barcas improvisadas culmina 
finalmente en la isla del Mal Hado; isla que tan facilmente evoca las islas homéricas, 
entre otras, pero, sobre todo, la isla maldita mencionada en el Lai de José de 
Arimatea, y en la que también se producen peligros y tormentas”'; es, si se quiere, 
el opuesto, o la inversién de la isla bienaventurada: es decir, “la isla de joyas” que 
figura en los mitos griegos y que era el punto afortunado de llegada en la 
peregrinatio. Es esa precisamente la isla que busc6 Ponce de Le6én y cuya supuesta 
ruta le llevé a la Florida. Asi también, la sugestiva “heuilleta de talabarte de espada” 
que Alonso del Castillo tomé de un indio (Cap. XXXII) nos remonta al “sentido 
de proteccidn” que tradicionalmente se habia asociado con la hebilla como reducci6n 
del escudo y resorte que ata extremos imaginativos de toda secuencia. Eneste caso 
también la veremos como expresi6n de una alucinante trayectoria que se configura 
a un avatar circularizado”. Ecos del locus amoenus, segin los formulismos 
identificados por Curtius, y muchos otros, se insinian mas de una vez en los 
Naufragios. Hacia el final de su camino, cuando Nijiez ya anticipa jubilosamente 
que ha de verse rescatado, el proceso de evocacién le hace aproximarse a visiones 
de tenue corte clasico™’. 


les mandamos que se assegurassen y assentassen sus pueblos y sembrassen y 
labrassen la tierra, que de estar despoblada estaua muy llena de monte, lo qual 
sin dubda es la mejor de quantas en estas Indias ay e mas fértil y abundosa de 
mantenimientos, y siembran tres vezes al afio. Tienen muchas frutas y muy 


50. La reincidencia del t6pico parece indicar su uso deliberado. Ver: caps. I-IV, VI, X, 
XXXVII, entre otros. 


aw... .Cirlot, ip: 122. 
a2. Ibid. p.°122. 


53. Ver: Curtius, pp. 106, 192. Con ello no quiero inferir que Nufiez hubiese alcanzado 
una formacién humanistica como tal. Me refiero, mas bien, a la reaparicién de una formula 
descriptiva que tuvo una vigencia notable en el siglo XVI y en obras muy dispares. 


142 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


hermosos rios y otras muchas aguas muy buenas. Ay muestras grandes y sefiales 
de minas de oro e plata (Cap. XXXIV). 


Aun en pasajes que se apartan de toda construccién hiperbolica, el texto de Cabeza 
de Vaca incorpora otros convencionalismos que ya habian aparecido en el proemio 
de sus Naufragios, y que se repiten con matices diferenciados. Asi, el t6pico de 
lo inexpresable o no recuperable—que tan honda raigambre clasica tiene™—reapa- 
rece mAs de una vez en los Naufragios. “Destos nos partimos y anduuimos por 
tantas suertes de gentes y de tan diuersas lenguas que no basta memoria a poderlas 
contar ...” (Cap. XXIX). Pero mas efectivo es el uso de la brevitas como 
formulismo condensado*’. En el proemio nos dira Nujiez que al relatar “antes 
soy en todo mAs corto que largo”. Cierto es que esta férmula tenia, desde la 
antigiiedad, igual vigencia en las narraciones hist6ricas que en la ficcién. No 
obstante, en los Naufragios el uso de la brevitas evoca la aplicacién que de esa 
fOrmula se hacia en textos literarios: “Los trabajos que en esto passé seria largo 
contarlos, assi de peligros y hambres como de tempestades ...” (Cap. XVI). A 
propoésito de lo que les ocurrié en la isla del Mal Hado, Nujfiez dir4: “mas yo he 
contado las mds principales y mds sefialadas [vicisitudes] por passar adelante y contar 
lo que mas nos suscedi6” (Cap. XV). 

Si esos detalles ilustran una incorporacién mesurada y a veces exigua de 
codificaciones literarias en los Naufragios”, es, sobre todo, la subita aparicién 
en el ultimo capitulo de una nigromante y de profecias lo que mds directamente 
vincula a los Naufragios con la tradicién literaria como tal. La Mora de Hornachos 
pertenece, con toda claridad, al linaje de las celestinas*’, que representan “Fabia” 
en el Caballero de Olmedo de Lope de Vega, “La Camacha” de Cervantes, “Juana 
Garcia” de Rodriguez Freyle y la “Sycoray” de Shakespeare®. Hornachos era, 


54. Ibid., pp. 120, 159. 


55. A otro nivel, existe siempre la posibilidad de sugestivas analogias con textos reconocidos. 
Sobre todo cuando advertimos que el contenido de los Naufragios se aproxima a las secuencias 
episddicas de narraciones clasicas. Asi, por ejemplo, la construcci6n de barcas, hechas por 
la expedicion de Narvaez, con Arboles que encontraron en el norte de la Florida, se vincula 
a episodios similares que recordaremos en obras céletres. Antonello Gerbien La naturaleza 
de las Indias nuevas (México: Fondo de Cultura, 1978), ha puesto de relieve la vigencia 
del topico de “los Arboles que se convierten en naves”, asi como las relaciones de esos giros 
metaf6ricos con pasajes de la Eneida IX, 77-80; de las Metamorfosis de Ovidio, XIV, 50; 
y del Orlando Furioso de Ariosto, XXXIX, 26-28; obra esta ultima en que la fronda, al 
ser milagrosamente lanzada a las olas, se transformara (“in un tratto diventaro navi”, p. 
31). 


56. Esa tradicién la explicita Maria Rosa Lida de Malkiel en La originalidad artistica de 
la Celestina (Buenos Aires, E.U.D.B.A., 1968), pp. 242 y sigtes. 


57. Ver mi: Vocacion..., pp. 142-143. 


58. Agradezco esos y otros datos histéricos que me facilitaron, en ocasiones diversas, el 


El libro de viajes, la ficcién y sus legados en los Naufragios 143 


enel siglo XVI, pueblo extremefio habitado por numerosos moriscos entre los que 
se suponia la existencia de nigromAnticos. La profecia fatidica e inesperada de la 
Mora desciende, con variantes idealizadas y escatolégicas, desde Virgilio a 
Cervantes, pasando por Tasso y reapareciendo en Milton. Es particularmente 
reveladora la elucidacién que de este t6pico ofrece Alban Forcione en su andlisis 
del Coloquio de los perros y otros textos cervantinos®. Pero, mAs all4 de esos 
vinculos y asociaciones, si viéramos el texto de Niifiez como la encarnacién de una 
profecia—emitida en este caso por una nigroméntica—entonces propiamente cabria 
iniciar una valoracién literaria del texto; lectura que también podria apoyarse en 
el acontecer novelesco que se insinia en el regreso de Nufiez a Espafia. Nos 
sorprende que, en alta mar, la embarcacién en que navega Cabeza de Vaca se vea 
amenazada por corsarios franceses. De esa aventura él reconstruye imaginativamen- 
te, y en su hispanizado portugués, las exclamaciones de un capitan lusitano que 
se expresa con la soltura pintoresca de sus equivalentes ficcionalizados (Cap. 
XXXVIII). Recordemos por ultimo, y proyectandonos hacia textos posteriores a 
los Naufragios, que naufrago es el efebo de la Primera soledad (1611) de Géngora, 
y también lo seran, en el Nuevo Mundo, Antonio y su hijo en La tempestad (1611) 
de Shakespeare, asi como el don Juan de Tirso en El burlador de Sevilla (1630). 
Todos ellos, como Alvar Nijiez, recalan en playas desconocidas y habitadas por 
gente humilde; gente cuya presencia alude a un proceso de inversiones sutiles que 
a lo largo de siglos se han ritualizado en la narrativa de naufragios y catastrofes 
similares”. Al exponer en estas paginas algunos nexos leves que la narracién de 
Cabeza de Vaca mantiene con una dilatada tradici6n literaria, no he querido inferir 
que todo ello se deba a una eleccién deliberada por parte de Nufiez. Al comentar 
esa dimensi6n del texto he intentado verlo como una construcci6n narrativa en la 
que naturalmente van quedando atrapados t6picos, motivos y alusiones que derivan 
de un espontaneo proceso analégico. Los Naufragios concluyen, como recordaremos, 
con una identificacién precisa de los supervivientes, de sus linajes y procedencias; 
pero junto a ese pequefio inventario, que parece ser cerrojo final del texto, 


conde Canilleros y Juan Pérez de Tudela. Ver, ademas: Julio Caro Baroja, Algunos mitos 
espanoles (Madrid: Espasa Calpe, 1941). 


59. Cervantes and the Mystery of Lawlessness: A Study of “El casamiento enganoso” y “El 
coloquio de los perros” (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984), pp. 59-88. 


60. Las implicaciones de esos rituales, codificados segin aparecen en una vasta tradicion 
mediterranea, se expone en los siguientes estudios: John Freccero, “The River of Death: 
Inferno II, 108”, en The World of Dante: Six Studies in Language and Thought, ed. de S. 
B. Chandler y J. A. Molinaro (Toronto: Toronto University Press, 1966); Richard H. Lansing, 
“Two Similes in Dante’s Commedia. The Shipwrecked Swimmer and Elijah’s Ascent,” 
Romance Philology, XXVIII, 2 (1974), 162-163. Una exposicién mAs amplia de las posibles 
relaciones de los Naufragios con la narrativa de viajes aparece en Hallazgos de la lectura: 
homenaje a Miguel Enguidanos (Madrid: Edit. Porria, 1989), pp. 63-83. 


144 ENRIQUE PUPO-WALKER 


parad6jicamente—y en ese mismo capitulo—se abre la grieta que suscita la revelacién 
profética. Asi, el acto de premonici6n, con toda su posible arbitrariedad, se inserta, 
para siempre, en el texto de Nufiez como una apertura creativa que posibilita lecturas 
diversas de los Naufragios. Finalmente, al distinguir esa rica vertiente imaginativa 
del texto tampoco olvidemos que, implicito en la afamada narracién de Cabeza de 
Vaca, también aparece el otro viaje del que nunca suele hablarse. Me refiero al 
cruento itinerario, no ya fisico, sino cultural que padecié Alvar Nujfiez. Es decir, 
el trayecto regresivo que media entre la cultura renacentista—que este relator conoci6 
en Italia y al servicio de la casa de Medina Sidonia—y el otro mundo que representan 
en los Naufragios aquellas tribus paupérrimas que en el siglo XVI aun vivian en 
las tinieblas del bajo paleolitico americano. Pero esa jornada, casi indecible, 
obligadamente tendra que ser tema para otra ocasién. 


Vanderbilt University 


NANCY A. WALKER 


Stepping Out: Writing Women’s Travel 


One of the earliest forms of women’s travel writing in America has come to be 
called the “captivity narrative.” A true travel tale of travail, it was the first-person 
account of capture by Native Americans during conflict with colonial settlers, 
movement with one’s captors through their terrain, and eventual rescue or release. 
Forced travel; travel as hostage, prisoner. Yet travel as some sort of captive was 
a common experience for many women before the nineteenth century. Consider 
the Puritan poet Anne Bradstreet, who wrote that her “heart rose” against the 
prospect of crossing the Atlantic Ocean with her father and husband in the seven- 
teenth century. Even in the nineteenth century, women who wrote letters and 
diaries during the cross-country trek to the promise of California often recorded 
their sense of being captives of their fathers’ or husbands’ asspirations for gold 
or fertile land. The captivity narrative thus seems an apt metaphor for much of 
women’s travel in earlier centuries. 

Stepping out has different requirements, a different set of possibilities: going 
of one’s own volition, returning to tell the tale, and in the telling claiming the right 
to create a self to do the traveling and the telling. 

In Good Bones and Simple Murders, Margaret Atwood steps way out: she 
travels, in her characteristically ironic way, from one planet to another; she 
becomes other species—a bat, a moth from a planet where moths are the dominant 
creatures. Her point in all of this is to show us to ourselves, to give readers a 
vantage point on being human. How foolish looks the man swatting at the bat with 
the broom from the perspective of the bat, who wants only to get out where he 
came in and return to his cave. To the potential interplanetary visitor to Earth, 
Atwood describes human beings and their habits, such as eating: “I destroy and 
assimilate certain parts of my surroundings and change them into myself” (133). 
In “Cold-Blooded,” the she-moth who has managed to communicate with humans 
on earth reports to her “sisters, the Iridescent Ones, the Egg-Bearers,” on the 
strange customs of the “blood creatures” : females do not devour their male partners 
after mating, and the fact that most of their leaders are male explains why humans 
live in a state of “relative barbarism” (81). 

Atwood travels to be feminist and parodic; her destination is critique, not just 
description. Yet she does what any travel writer does: interprets the unfamiliar 
to the folks at home through the medium of herself. Bats understand that the 
Broom is Bad and the Cave is Good; for humans, the broom is a site of domestici- 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


146 NANCY A. WALKER 


ty, but for bats the human-feared cave is home, “with bodies rounded and soft as 
furred plums clustering around” (115). Assuming the “I” of the bat or the moth 
is the means of mediating between their unfamiliar worlds and our familiar ones, 
and in the process we must see ourselves anew. 

But the “I” is female. That we know from the title page, but we might know 
it as well from Atwood’s emphasis on procreation, on bodies, on the relationship 
between the sexes. We might know it from her wry comments on male dominance. 
Whatever the evidence, the woman-as-traveler has a different eye and a different 
“T.” In whatever century she inhabits, even the late twentieth, she is stepping out: 
out of the house, out of the frame, away from home where she belongs. Ruth and 
Sylvie, in Marilynne Robinson’s novel Housekeeping, not only leave home and 
declare “an end to housekeeping” (209). The ever-transient Sylvie and her niece 
Ruth cannot be imagined by the neighbors as perpetual travelers, and so are 
presumed to be dead; such presumptions give them a curious permission, freeing 
them from the obligation to return from the trip. In not returning, however, Ruth 
and Sylvie deny us a report of the travel, a translation of the world beyond the 
frame. In this post-modern circumstance, it is up to us to supply our various 
narratives of their journey—what matters to Robinson is the road to the stepping 
out, not what happens afterward. 

How different were the circumstances of the women whose travels Richard 
Mullen describes in Birds of Passage, Englishwomen who visited America in the 
first half of the nineteenth century. In contrast to Ruth and Sylvie’s unfettered, 
will-o’-the-wisp existence, these women were bound solidly to the trunks full of 
possessions necessary for weeks and months of travel on shipboard and in carriages. 
And they were bound, too, by the twin awareness of being English and female. 
Even Rebecca Burlend, who with her husband and five of her seven children came 
to homestead, not just visit, in America, seems always to have considered herself 
an Englishwoman living in America, not an American, even though she lived in 
Illinois until her death in 1872, when she was nearly eighty. Rebecca Burlend, 
the first of the “Five Englishwomen in Search of America” —the book’s subti- 
tle—that Mullen discusses, does differ from the others in some significant ways. 
As the least economically and socially privileged of the five—which is precisely 
why homesteading in America had its appeal—she and her family traveled in 
steerage on the voyage to America, and, once here, experienced only rural life in 
a small farming community rather than the cities of the Northeast and South visited 
by her more affluent peers. 

Yet she shares with these women—Frances Wright, Frances Trollope, Lady 
Emmeline Wortley, and Catherine Hopley—the eye and “I” of the woman traveler, 
noticing and noting those aspects of human existence that life had trained them to 
observe: manners, food, family life, fashions. As Mullen notes in the introduction 
to Birds of Passage, “men may have learned more about commerce, science or 
politics, but women learned more about life” (3). Thus Rebecca Burlend records 


Stepping Out: Writing Women’s Travel 147 


the difficulty of cooking meals while traveling on the crowded ship, sharing a 
cooking fire with many others; upon arrival in New Orleans, she was horrified by 
slavery but charmed by the beauty of the plantation homes that slavery sustained. 
Once in Illinois, Rebecca’s husband, John, negotiates for land while Rebecca seeks 
the advice of neighbors about housekeeping on the frontier. Attuned to the 
domestic, she describes a neighbor’s cabin in some detail—noting the amounts of 
both honey and tobacco that were kept on hand. Like other female travelers on 
the American frontier, she described the night sky in deeply romantic terms. 

Or did she? Rebecca Burlend, it turns out, did not actually write about her 
travel to and life in America; indeed, she might not have been literate. She told 
her story to her eldest son during a visit to England in 1846; Edward wrote the 
story, which was published in 1848 with the wonderful title A True Picture of 
Emigration; or Fourteen Years in the Interior of North America; Being a Full and 
Impartial Account of the Various Difficulties and Ultimate Success of an Engish 
Family Who Emigrated from Barwick-in-Elmet near Leeds, in the Year 1831. While 
there is no reason to believe that son Edward invented incidents or even altered 
the angle of his mother’s vision, the fact remains that Rebecca’s “I” is filtered 
through the consciousness and the pen of another. Richard Mullen is entirely 
uncritical about this fact, reporting that “Edward was faithful to his mother’s story” 
(30) without pausing to consider how differences in vocabulary, phrasing, and 
emphasis can alter the nature of “truth.” It is only the evidence of other traveling 
women of the same period that inclines us to believe that Rebecca Burlend did 
indeed stand transfixed beneath the stars of a winter Illinois night. 

Mullen is on far less shaky ground with the other women travelers in Birds 
of Passage, all of whom wrote their own accounts of travel to and in nineteenth- 
century America. The best-known of these is Frances Trollope’s Domestic Manners 
of the Americans, which announces in its very title that Mrs. Trollope was more 
drawn to the details of everyday life than to broad political or economic issues. 
The fact that she was disdainful about many of America’s “domestic manners” 
created the book’s celebrity: American readers were incensed by her blunt 
criticisms of American food, means of travel, and behavior, while many English 
readers were confirmed by it in their belief that Americans were a barbarous lot 
who spit tobacco juice, threw their garbage into the street, and lacked both 
sufficient servants and taste in clothing. In contrast to her sometime traveling 
companion, Frances Wright, Trollope recorded her impressions of a society in 
which the leveling effects of democracy removed some of the insulation against 
gritty reality that those of her social class expected as their due. 

The difference between Frances Wright’s 1821 Views of Society and Manners 
in America and Trollope’s 1832 Domestic Manners illustrates the debate raging 
in nineteenth-century England about the merits and dangers of democratic political 
organization. Although both of these women travelers observed most closely what 
we might generally call the “domestic” side of American life—with Frances Wright 


148 NANCY A. WALKER 


positive and enthusiastic about what she encountered and Frances Trollope highly 
critical—their travel narratives formed part of a deeply political controversy in 
which American society was the testing ground for a democratic experiment which 
attracted some in England and frightened others. These women’s personal 
narratives thus quickly left the realm of the personal and stepped out into political 
debate. Whether one’s fellow travelers were excellent conversationalists, as Wright 
found them to be, or rowdy and rude, as Trollope felt was the case, was not merely 
a matter of individual taste, but pointed to a fundamental difference in attitudes 
about personal freedom. 

The women travelers whom Mullen considers seem in fact determined to break 
out of the gendered mold he announces for them. While it is true that they were 
more conscious than their male contemporaries of the accommodations on steam- 
boats and the decor of houses, with the exception of Rebecca Burlend these women 
had—and expressed—decided opinions on various American institutions, particularly 
slavery. Even Lady Emmeline, who announced early in her Travels in the United 
States Etc. that “for the politician or philosopher these pages will, I fear, have little 
or no interest,” had much to say about American concepts of progress (although 
she deplored the race for the dollar that unrestrained capitalism seemed to breed), 
the justice of the American Revolution, and the complicated nature of the issue of 
slavery. Even closer to slavery was Catherine Hopley, the fifth of Mullens’ 
“birds,” who worked for a time as a governess on a Virginia plantation. Although 
not an ardent abolitionist, Hopley was, like most antebellum English visitors, 
initially opposed to the “peculiar institution”; she had read Stowe’s Uncle Tom’s 
Cabin, and was pleasantly surprised to find the treatment of slaves at her place of 
employment far less harsh than that depicted by Stowe. Hopley’s 1863 book, Life 
in the South, supported the cause of the Confederacy, and she later wrote a short 
biography of Stonewall Jackson, one of its major heroes. Although Catherine 
Hopley wrote more out of a loyalty to those who had treated her kindly in Virginia 
than from a deep-seated political philosophy, she nonetheless saw fit to enter 
publicly (if anonymously) into the major debate of the day. 

That travel writing offered a sanctioned venue in which a woman could take 
a stand on politics and social institutions is one of the points that Mary Suzanne 
Schriber makes in her introduction to Telling Travels: Selected Writings by 
Nineteenth-Century American Women Abroad: “The commodiousness and elasticity 
of the genre offered a public space in which women made their voices heard on 
national and international issues” (xxv). As the title suggests, Schriber’s collection 
contains the record of women moving in the opposite direction from—crossing paths 
with, as it were—those profiled in Birds of Passage. The sixteen women whose 
travel writing is excerpted here did not go just to England or Europe; some went 
farther afield to Africa, Algeria, and Russia, and more than one went around the 
world. Some of these women traveled for expressly political purposes: reformers 
such as Emma Willard, Margaret Fuller, and Harriet Beecher Stowe went abroad 


Stepping Out: Writing Women’s Travel 149 


in large part to study institutions and movements that might assist them in their 
efforts to improve the lot of American women and slaves. 

Yet the travel writing of these three unusually public women differs consider- 
ably in subject matter and tone, and the difference has to do more than anything 
else with audience. Most people who comment on travel writing give insufficient 
attention to the writer’s assumed reader, and yet, as a form of autobiography, travel 
writing is shaped to a significant degree by whom the “eye” and the “I” are 
translating the experience for. Willard, Fuller, and Stowe all use the letter 
form—surely the most common form of travel writing over the centuries—but 
whereas Willard and Stowe wrote personal letters to specific individuals, Fuller 
wrote public letters to anonymous readers of the New York Tribune, for which she 
was a foreign correspondent. Thus Willard, writing to her sister, chats about the 
room she is staying in while in Paris, and discourses upon French fashions, and 
Stowe, addressing her children, describes the rigors of her voyage to London. 
Fuller, in contrast, assails the European class system for her Tribune readers in 
the 1840s, and has to acknowledge that by maintaining slavery, America is failing 
to set a good example for other nations. Each writer shapes her report—and the 
presumed self that delivers it—with an eye to who will open the envelope, the 
newspaper, the published book. 

Despite such differences, one similarity unites the sixteen selections in 
Schriber’s collection, which were published from the 1830s through the 1890s: an 
attitude of delight in being away, an almost mischievous sense of freedom from 
the ordinary, the expected. Thus Sarah Rogers Haight, traveling from Odessa to 
Turkey, exults, “in two days I found myself in Turkey, with everything differing 
so materially from what I had ever before seen” (51). Julia Ward Howe remem- 
bers leaving Italy “with infinite reluctance” after her second visit: “America seemed 
the place of exile, Rome the home of sympathy and comfort” (158). One of the 
most exuberant of travelers is Elizabeth Cochrane Seaman, better known as Nellie 
Bly, setting out to beat Phileas Fogg’s speed record for traveling around the world: 
“if I had found the elixir of life I should not have felt better than I did when I 
conceived a hope that a tour of the world might be made in even less than eighty 
days” (223). Catharine Maria Sedgwick takes pleasure in the orderliness of 
England: “Coming from our head-over-heels land, it is striking and beautiful to 
see the precise order that prevails here” (84). Such joy in being somewhere other 
than home may be in part attributed to the requirement that the travel writer 
entertain her reader; even seasickness is made by Stowe into an adventure to relate 
to her children. The book-buying public, increasingly interested in travel narratives 
as the nineteenth century progressed, would want the exotic to be pleasurable. But 
in addition to these demands of readership, one has the sense that for many of these 
women travel to other countries was a metaphor for breaking free of the constraints 
with which the culture bound them—ranging from clothing styles to legal restric- 
tions. 


150 NANCY A. WALKER 


At the same time that women travel to find the unrestrained “I,” they are also 
quick to forge bonds with those they meet. When Caroline Kirkland considered 
the experience of homesteading in Michigan in the 1830s in A New Home— Who'll 
Follow? (1839), she stressed—as male frontier writers did not—the interdependence 
of people pioneering in new territory, not only for social interaction, but more 
importantly for survival. For women travelers, the objects of greatest fascination 
are Other people, not monuments and geography. In the excerpt from Agnes 
McAllister’s A Lone Woman in Africa, this Methodist missionary struggles to 
understand the customs and values of the African women she lives among. What 
seems to be a preoccupation on the part of many travelers with dress and social 
ritual may be seen not as an emphasis on the superficial but as an effort to connect 
on a human level. Helen Hunt Jackson, visiting Rome in the 1860s, professes 
amazement at the stoicism of a Roman acquaintance who enters a convent each 
year for eight days of silence. “Think of that!” Jackson writes, “Not one word 
to a human being for eight days! There are some of us who would go mad on the 
seventh, if not sooner” (175). 

When we move ahead a century, much has changed in women’s travel. No 
longer, at least in most countries, is a woman unescorted by a man vulnerable to 
doubts about her virtue; changes in clothing and health allow women’s travel to 
be far more active and athletic than before; and travel itself is far faster, more 
comfortable, and less dangerous than a century ago. Women frequently travel on 
business and political errands, as men have always done. And yet to read the 
narratives in Travelers’ Tales: A Woman’s World is to find oneself on familiar 
ground. These fifty-six brief personal accounts of women stepping out demonstrate 
that leaving home still serves the purpose of self-discovery for contemporary 
women. The nineteenth-century woman sought a space for herself outside the 
frame of the domestic; the late-twentieth-century woman may be leaving behind 
her voice-mail instead of her dishpan, but the experience is otherwise much the 
same. Lynn Ferrin, for example, spends “eleven months of the year blinking into 
a computer screen,” then goes ona horseback trip through Inner Mongolia to return 
to her desk with a “new way of seeing” (121). Alison DaRosa fishes for marlin 
in Mexico as a way of becoming part of the generations of male professional 
fishermen in her family; returning, she symbolically joins the world of her father 
and his forefathers, heir to their experience. Marianna Gosnell takes a three-month 
leave from her job with a news magazine to fly solo across America so that she 
could be “sitting in some nameless cube of air, or standing, an anonymous human 
being, on the grounds of some unidentified little airport” (300). 

Far more often than in earlier centuries, women’s travel can be a solo flight, 
but more often than not, the traveler emphasizes the importance of relation- 
ships—recognitions of common humanity across cultural differences. In “Five 
Pounds of Almonds,” Jo Broyles Yohay recounts her trip alone to India, during 
which she delivered a gift of almonds to the brother of a friend. For Yohay, the 


Stepping Out: Writing Women’s Travel 151 


trip is “a midlife, self-confrontational adventure” to prove to herself that she is the 
explorer that as a child she dreamed of being. But more important than what she 
proves to herself is her role as catalyst for the stepping-out of her host’s wife: the 
shopping trip the two women take one day without a male escort is as large a step 
for the Indian woman as is Yohay’s six-week trip across India. Frequently, travel 
with other women is a way of both carving out a female space and maintaining 
connection. A narrative that serves as a paradigm for this is Mary Beth Simmons’ 
“Women at the Well.” Arriving in Cameroon as a Peace Corps volunteer, 
Simmons was told a cautionary tale about cultural difference: a former Peace Corps 
worker, concerned that the village women had to walk five miles to get water, 
arranged for a well to be dug in the village; when the women continue to make 
the long trek to fill their water barrels he is finally told that these trips are valuable 
to them as time to be away from their husbands, to gossip and to laugh. There 
are distinct parallels between this story and Cathy N. Davidson’s account of the 
communal women’s bath in Shirakama, Japan, and Betsa Marsh’s narrative of her 
and her friends’ annual shopping pilgrimage to the factory outlet stores in Pigeon 
Forge, Tennessee. 

The rollicking humor of Marsh’s “A Spree in Tennessee” marks it as contem- 
porary, but the humor is on a continuum with the joy so often expressed by earlier 
women travelers. The women whose narratives comprise A Woman’s World are 
capable of an irony and even at times a self-mockery largely unavailable to 
nineteenth-century women travelers, who were more likely to write ritualistic 
apologies for daring to appear in print. Nonetheless, women’s travel writing tends 
to be infused with realizations of power, often quite simply told, as in Judith 
McDavid’s “Learning to Walk,” when she recalls the lesson of her first long Girl 
Scout hike: “If I could walk five miles, I could go anywhere in my world” (77). 

Margaret Atwood might add, “or in any world you can imagine.” 


Vanderbilt University 


WORKS CITED 


Atwood, Margaret. Good Bones and Simple Murders. New York: Doubleday, 1994. 

Bond, Marybeth, ed. Travelers’ Tales: A Woman’s World. San Francisco: Travelers’ Tales, 
Inc., 1995. 

Mullen, Richard. Birds of Passage: Five Englishwomen in Search of America. New York: 
St. Martin’s Press, 1994. 

Schriber, Mary Suzanne, ed. Telling Travels: Selected Writings by Nineteenth-Century 
American Women Abroad. DeKalb: Northern Illinois University Press, 1995. 


ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 


1. 1. Inseguire Petrarca nei suoi continui spostamenti e, soprattutto, ricordarne 
le frequenti peregrinazioni richiede una memoria non comune.' D’altronde anch’egli 
Si sentiva “peregrinus ubique” (Epyst. III 19, 16) e, come ricordava nella prima 
lettera delle Familiari confrontando il proprio destino con quello di Ulisse, tutta 
la sua vita “in peregrinatione transacta est” (Fam. I 1, 21). Ambedue hanno 
vagabondato a lungo e in paesi lontani, ma il paragone con il personaggio antico, 
nel tentativo di elevare la propria esperienza biografica su un paradigma di 
esemplarita,” come, del resto, & peculiare della mentalita medievale e, in particolare, 
delle opere di Dante, fornisce anche una chiave interpretativa non solo dell’e- 
pistolario, ma di numerose altre opere. 

Tutta la produzione petrarchesca si ispira, in qualche modo, alla visione della 
vita come itinerario® che si svolge sia nel tempo sia nello spazio fisico e geografico 
sia nello spazio interiore nella forma dell’itinerarium mentis verso la perfezione 


1. Diversi sono stati gli studi sui viaggi e sulle conoscenze geografiche del Petrarca: F. 
D’Ovidio, “Questioni di geografia petrarchesca”, Atti della R. Accademia di Scienze Morali 
e Politiche di Napoli, Xx (1889), 125-156; E. Penco, Il Petrarca viaggiatore (Genova-Sam- 
pierdarena, Tip. don Bosco, 1932); E. H. Wilkins, “Peregrinus ubique”, Studies in Philology, 
XLV (1948), 445-453; A. Sacchetto, Il pellegrino viandante. Itinerari italiani ed europei 
di Francesco Petrarca (Firenze, Le Monnier, 1955); G. Margiotta, “Studio illustrativo degli 
itinerari italiani ed europei del Petrarca”, Rassegna di cultura e vita scolastica, x1, 1 (1957), 
6-7: P. Lelis, “Petrarca turista ante-litteram”, Historia (giugno 1962), 56-57, ma in questo 
saggio si intende approfondire altri aspetti non considerati nei precedenti lavori. 


2. La lettera all’amico Guido Sette (Sen. X, 2) é una sorta di autobiografia cadenzata 
simbolicamente su un ritmo quadriennale: quattro anni a Montpellier; viaggi in Europa per 
quattro anni dopo l’esperienza bolognese; visita a Roma dopo quattro anni e a Napoli dopo 
lo stesso numero di anni: “Sic tunc vitam quaternario partiebar”. 


3. “Ut multorum dierum navigatio, sic multorum annorum vita est: non unum celo sidus, 
non una tempestas pelago; sepe flectendus clavus, sepe contrahenda sunt carbasa, et sepe, 
quo nil periculosius habet ars nautica, pro ventorum varietate flectenda sunt. Numquam 
expectes ut diu sit immota tranquillitas aut maris aut vite; mutantur assidue rerum facies, 
et sepe serenissimus mane dies nubilo fine concluditur”. Le citazioni sono dell’edizione 
nazionale: Familiares, a cura di V. Rossi e U. Bosco (Firenze, 1933). Per le Seniles si é 
utilizzato il volgarizzamento di G. Fracassetti (Firenze, 1869-1870); per il Secretum 1’edizione 
acura di G. Martellotti (Milano-Napoli, Ricciardi, 1955); per le Epistolae Metrice la stessa 
edizione delle Familiares; infine, per il Canzoniere, \’edizione di G. Contini (Torino, Einaudi, 
1964). 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 153 


umana e cristiana. E tuttavia il modello dantesco costituisce un referente dinamico 
e polemico con il quale continuamente misurarsi: lo stesso concetto della vita, pit 
volte ricordato da Dante come itinerario, sia nel celebre incipit della Commedia, 
che successivamente (Inf. X, 130-132 “quando sarai dinanzi al dolce raggio / di 
quella il cui bell’occhio tutto vede, / da lei saprai di tua vita il viaggio”), diventa 
in Petrarca un leit motiv letterario ed esistenziale su cui modellare la propria 
esistenza. 


1. 2. Ricostruendo a grandi linee la biografia petrarchesca, emerge che 1 viaggi 
del Poeta possono essere raggruppati, tematicamente, secondo tre tipologie: a) i 
viaggi inconsapevoli e imposti dalle ineluttabili necessita familiari, durante |’infanzia, 
dove prevale il tema dell’esilio come dimensione psicologica ed esistenziale; b) i 
viaggi della giovinezza, il cui fulcro fu Bologna, che rappresentarono le basi per 
lo sviluppo dell’educazione e della formazione intellettuale; c) i viaggi della maturita 
e della vecchiaia che lo videro come |’ orator corteggiato dai principi, l’ambasciatore 
che serviva i principi in assoluta liberta, ma anche |’intellettuale che ricerca una 
utopica dimora tranquilla e serena. 

L’apparente contraddizione tra l’uomo pubblico che insegue onori e incarichi 
di prestigio alla corte papale e presso i potenti signori e 1’uomo di studio che, nella 
sua dimensione interiore, aspira alla serenita e alla tranquillita si risolve in una 
inquietudine che lo spinge sempre alla ricerca dell’ ubi consistam fisico e spirituale. 

Tuttavia l’immagine che emerge dai dati biografici é lontana dal monumento 
che Petrarca erige a se stesso e intende affidare ai posteri. L’epistolario, in altri 
autori accreditabile come autentica testimonianza biografica, diventa con il Petrarca, 
all’indomani della scoperta delle lettere di Cicerone, un’opera letteraria, un Jusus 
utile solo parzialmente a ricostruire dati storicamente veritieri. 


2. 1. La memoria, consapevole o indotta dal racconto altrui, delle disavventure 
affrontate fin dall’infanzia (Fam. I 1, 23-24; XIV 5, 23-24) lo ha segnato e rimarra 
viva per molti anni, se é vero che ritornd pit volte sulle redazioni dell’epistolario. 
All’eta di sette mesi, nel 1305, é databile il primo incidente: nell’ attraversare |’ Arno, 
mentre la madre tornava all’Incisa presso il nonno, ser Parenzo, il cavallo del 
servitore cui era stato affidato il bambino cadde nell’acqua e ambedue rischiarono 
di annegare nel fiume; a sette anni, invece, rischid la vita andando per mare a 
Marsiglia a causa di una tempesta: 


Meminit haud ignobilis Italie civitas, Aretium, quo pulsus patria pater magna cum 
bonorum acie confugerat. Inde mense septimo sublatus sum totaque Tuscia 
circumlatus prevalidi cuiusdam adolescentis dextera; qui... linteo obvolutum, nec 
aliter quam Metabus Camillam, nodoso de stipite pendentem, ne contactu tenerum 
corpus offenderet, gestabat. Is, in transitu Arni fluminis, lapsu equi effusus, dum 
honus sibi creditum servare nititur, violento gurgite prope ipse periit. Finis tusci 
erroris, Pise; unde rursus etatis anno septimo divulsus ac maritimo itinere 
transvectus in Gallias, hibernis aquilonibus haud procul Massilia naufragium passus, 


154 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


parum abfui quin ab ipso rursus nove vite vestibulo revocarer. 


Il Petrarca é un osservatore attento della citta che vede per la prima volta: a 
Parigi, ad esempio, cammina di giorno e, quando non gli basta, anche di notte per 
esperire se effettivamente corrisponda a verita la fama di questa grande citta (Fam. 
I 4, 4); a Colonia, celebre per la posizione geografica e per la sua gente, é 
meravigliato come tra i barbari possa essere sorta tanta civilta, bellezza di edifici 
ed eleganza femminile (Fam. I 5, 1-4).‘ 

Sul tessuto urbano di Avignone, la prima citta nella quale dimora pid a lungo, 
generalmente tace. Sede del papato dal 1311, le spericolate operazioni finanziarie 
della corte pontificia avevano attirato in citta un certo numero di banchieri che 
praticavano |’usura e il cambio in una sfrenata logica affaristica. Cardinali e vescovi, 
assetati di potere, di prestigio e di denaro, svilupparono nel lusso pit appariscente 
una forte politica nepotista. Per tali motivi essa é la nuova Babilonia, la Babilonia 
occidentale, terra crudele e infernale strepito (Fam. XI 6, 5; XI 9, 2; XII 8, 1, 
10-11; XII 10, 2, passim), empia (Canz. CXIV), ma anche “meta nostre peregrinatio- 
nis” (Sen. X 2) perché luogo d’esilio suo e della Chiesa. Pid diffusamente parla 
della citta in una lettera a fra Bartolommeo, vescovo di Thiene, ma sempre in termini 
moralistici poco lusinghieri (Fam. XII 11, 6-8); in un’altra lettera a Zanobi da Strada 
del 1353 afferma che non esiste nessuna citta pit torbida o pit malvagia (Fam. XVI 
10, 1-3). Spacchi di vita quotidiana emergono invece in una epistola metrica al card. 
Bernard d’ Albi (Epyst. II 3, 10-43) dove, sulle orme della descrizione di Roma 
fornita da Giovenale nella III Satira, presenta una realta cittadina frequentata da 
persone di ogni razza, gente rissosa e indaffarata, carri che avanzano su strade 
fangose e anguste, dove gli artigiani lavorano ed esibiscono i loro prodotti. 

Per trasferirsi ad Avignone, la famiglia aveva affrontato il viaggio via mare 
ed aveva sostato a Genova, che cosi viene ricordata in una lettera del 1 novembre 
1352 al doge e al Consiglio di quella citta, dove la sequenza dei loci amoeni produce 
una dimensione letteraria che cela in qualche modo I’effettiva realta: 


Infans ego tunc eram, et vix velut in somnis visa commemini, quando sinus ille 
vestri litoris, qui et solis ortum respicit et occasum, non terrena sed celestis 
habitatio videbatur et qualem apud Elysios campos memorant poete, iuga collium 
amenis tramitibus virentesque convalles et in convallibus felices anime. Quis non 
ex alto turres ac palatia mirabatur atque arte perdomitam naturam, rigidos colles 
cedro Bromioque atque olea vestitos, et sub altis rupibus edes marmoreas nulli 
secundas regie, nullis urbibus non optandas? quis non spectabat attonitus latibula 
illa letissima, ubi inter scopulos atria auratis trabibus stabant et equoreis sonantia 
fluctibus et tempestate rorantia, que specie sua navigantium in se ora converterent 
oblitumque remi nautam spectaculi novitate suspenderent? at si terra iter ageres, 


4. A. Sottili, “Tracce petrarchesche a Colonia”, in Kdln und Italien (Colonia, Istituto Italiano 
di cultura, 1966), pp. 109-20. 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 155 


quem non stupor animi maximus habebat augustissimos et plusquam humanos 
virorum matronarumque habitus cernentem? quis non viator medio calle torpebat, 
nunquam visas in urbibus delitias inter silvarum latebras et remotissima rura 
conspiciens? (Fam. XIV 5, 23-24) 


Sebbene i contatti con questa citta, soprattutto per la sua realta politica, militare 
e sociale fossero frequenti, il Petrarca fornisce ben pochi dati sulla realta geografica: 
a proposito dell’assedio del 1318 da parte dei Visconti, ricorda che sulla riva vi 
erano numerose e magnifiche ville; dopo il blocco dei milanesi, fuggiti gli abitanti, 
esse erano diventate spelonche di ladri, che incutevano paura ai passanti. 

Scarse anche le notizie su Carpentras e Montpellier fornite essenzialmente dalla 
gia menzionata Senile X 2 inviata all’amico d’infanzia Guido Sette nel 1368. 

Squarci di vita quotidiana si recuperano, invece, nella stessa lettera, per gli 
anni bolognesi, quando andava di sera a passeggiare nei campi con gli amici. 
L’incidente di uno studente, che aveva coinvolto la classe dei notai, provoco nella 
citta dei tumulti e, per solidarieta con lo studente, |’ Universita si trasferi ad Imola: 
i fratelli Petrarca seguirono i docenti, ma poi passando per Rimini, Venezia, Pisa 
(o Genova ?) ritornarono ad Avignone.° 

Altra citta pid volte ricordata é Lombez, citta della Guascogna, sede episcopale 
dell’amico Giacomo Colonna, fratello del card. Giovanni,° che lo volle al suo 
seguito, insieme a Ludovico Santo di Beringen e Lello di Pietro Stefano dei Tosetti 
(rispettivamente il Socrate e il Lelio delle Familiari) nel prendere possesso della 
diocesi nel 1330:’ il viaggio, compiuto per terra e per mare, sia per la stagione 
avversa, sia per l’asprezza della regione, sia per una guerra in corso, fu pieno di 
dure fatiche e di disagi per un uomo di lettere dalla vita sedentaria. In questo periodo 
colse, tuttavia, l’occasione per visitare anche Tolosa, la valle della Garonna e i 
Pirenei sotto un cielo tempestoso (Sen. X 2). 

Nei primi mesi del 1333, alla maniera dell’Ulisse dantesco, ansioso di conoscere 
nuovi paesi e nuovi confini (“visendi tantum studio et iuvenili quodam ardore”, 
Fam. I 4, 1) intraprende un lungo viaggio verso la Germania renana, la Francia 
settentrionale, il Brabante e la Fiandra.* II fine dell’escursione fu conoscere e 


5. C. Calcaterra, “Francesco Petrarca e lo Studio di Bologna”, in Alma mater studiorum. 
L’universita di Bologna nella storia della cultura e della civilta (Bologna, Zanichelli, 1948), 
pp. 115-124; A. Foresti, Aneddoti della vita di F. Petrarca, a cura di A. Tissoni Benvenuti 
(Padova, 1977), pp. 24-26. 


6. A. Cretoni, “Il Petrarca e i Colonna”, Studi romani, Ik (1961), 629-646. 


7. P. Ronzy, “Sur les traces de Pétrarque”, Annales de l’Université de Grenoble, V1, 1 
(1932), 23-27; R. Lannes, “A la mémoire de Pétrarque 4 Lombez”, Rassegna di studi 
francesi, V (1937), 157-158; C. Tourner, “Le séjour de Pétrarque 4 Lombez”, Revue de 
Gascogne, XXxII (1937), 97-112. 


8. G. Billanovich, “Tra Italia e Fiandre nel Trecento (Francesco Petrarca e Ludovico 
Beringen)”, in The Late Ages and the Dawn of Humanism Outside Italy. Proceedings of the 


156 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


studiare i costumi degli abitanti che vengono continuamente confrontati con quelli 
della propria patria che, in ogni caso, risultano sempre i migliori. I] continuo 
raffronto con personaggi o episodi dell’antichita da la misura di quanto le sue 
conoscenze siano imprescindibili dalla visione storica, umana e immanente della 
realta. 

Viaggiatore attento, annota che Gand é grande, ma soprattutto ricca, e che le 
regioni della Fiandra e del Brabante sono abitate da gente operosa, attiva nel 
commercio come nel lavoro artigianale della lana e dell’industria tessile. Ad 
Aquisgrana da spazio ad una storiella su Carlo Magno non prima di aver perd 
avvertito il suo destinatario, il card. Giovanni Colonna, di rinviare l’onere della 
autenticita esclusivamente agli autori della “fabella”. La sua curiosita non é ingenua 
come nella maggior parte dei viaggiatori contemporanei: egli accetta come credibile 
solo cid che puo esperire nella vita quotidiana sceverando il fatto dal mito: 


Gandavum quoque, ut media sileam, eodem conditore superbum vidi, amplum 
oppidum et opulentum vidi et ceteros Flandrie Brabantieque populos lanificos atque 
textores; vidi Leodium, insignem clero locum; vidi Aquensem Caroli sedem et 
in templo marmoreo verendum barbaris gentibus illius principis sepulcrum. Ubi 
fabellam audivi non inamenam cognitu a quibusdam templi sacerdotibus, quam 
scriptam michi ostenderunt et postea apud modernos scriptores accuratius etiam 
tractatam legi; quam tibi quoque ut referam, incidit animis, ita tamen ut rei fides 
non apud me queratur, sed, ut aiunt, penes autores maneat. Carolum regem, quem 
Magni cognomine equare Pompeio et Alexandro audent, mulierculam quandam 
perdite et efflictim amasse memorant (Fam. I 4, 5-7) 


Nella lettera seguente, inviata allo stesso card. Giovanni, annota che ad 
Aquisgrana ci sono famose acque termali come a Baia e, successivamente, che a 
Colonia, altra citta dove sgorgano acque termali, nel mese di giugno assolata e 
polverosa, ha assistito ad un rito propiziatorio compiuto da donne che pronunciavano 
parole incomprensibili sulle rive del Reno. E lo stupore di fronte all’episodio gli 
fa riflettere su una, ormai banale, sentenza delle Tusculane di Cicerone (5, 40, 
116) secondo cui “inter linguas incognitas omnes propemodum surdos ac mutos 
esse” (Fam. 1 5, 4). A Colonia visita la citta con occhio incantato e curioso, ma 
sempre consapevole della storia e attento alle pratiche devozionali: ricorda Agrippa, 
fondatore della colonia; nota che il Campidoglio é costruito ad imitazione di quello 
di Roma; vede un tempio, ancora incompiuto, chiamato “Massimo”; venera le 
reliquie dei corpi ritenuti dei Magi e le ossa delle vergini martiri che seguirono 
S. Orsola e da credito anche alla strana credenza popolare di un terreno che rifiuta 
di seppellire i cadaveri dei delinquenti. Nel mantenere la promessa, fatta in 
precedenza all’amico, di riferire solo cid che vedeva e sentiva, prosegue questo 


International Conference (Louvain, May 11-13, 1970) (Lovanio, Leuven University Press; 
The Hague, Nijhoff, 1972), pp. 19-30. 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 157 


viaggio verso la foresta dell’ Ardenna in maniera temeraria, trascurando i pericoli 
di una guerra in corso. Nel medesimo viaggio a Liegi scopri il codice contenente 
la Pro Archia di Cicerone. 


2.2. Nel 1335 affronta il suo primo viaggio per Roma, la citta tanto vagheggiata 
e sognata, ma prima si ferma a Capranica, ospite di Orso dell’ Anguillara, 
imparentato ai Colonna, che nel °41 lo incoronera “poeta laureatus”. In un paesaggio 
idilliaco dove il clima é saluberrimo e la regione circondata di colli, ruscelli e boschi 
abitati dalla fauna pit varia, offre la seguente vivace descrizione dell’ambiente 
guastato dai ladroni e del clima quotidiano di paura che vige nella regione e nella 
fortezza: 


Pax una, quonam gentis crimine, quibus celi legibus, quo fato seu qua siderum 
vi ab his terris exulet, ignoro. Quid enim putas? pastor armatus silvis invigilat, 
non tam lupos metuens quam raptores; loricatus arator, hastam ad usum rustici 
pugionis invertens, recusantis bovis terga solicitat; auceps retia clipeo tegit et 
piscator hamis fallacibus herentem escam rigido mucrone suspendit; quodque 
ridiculum dixeris, aquam e puteo petiturus rubiginosam galeam sordido fune 
connectit. Denique, nichil sine armis hic agitur. Quis ille pernox ululatus vigilum 
in menibus, que voces ad arma conclamantium, que michi in sonorum locum quos 
blandis e fidibus exprimere consueveram, successere? Nichil incolis harum 
regionum inter se aut tutum videas, aut pacatum audias, aut humanum sentias; 
sed bellum et odia et operibus demonum cunta simillima. (Fam. II 12, 5-6) 


Giunto a Roma,’ la sua ammirazione per la citta “caput mundi” é infinita e 
numerose sono le attestazioni d’amore (Fam. II 9, 24-28; If 12, 8; II 14; VII 1, 
4; XI 16, 1, 8; XV 8, 6, 17-19; XV 9, 2, 27; XVI 8, 2; XXII 4, 8). Essa é la 
citta dell’antichita classica e dei Papi, di cui si pud dire solo che 


nulla [civitas] similis fuit, nulla futura est ... Neque nunc ego romanas prosequor 
laudes: maior res est quam ut possit a transcurrente tractari; sed hec cursim attigi, 
ut intelligeres non parvipendere me regine urbis aspectum, de qua infinita perlegi 
et ipse multa iam scripsi, plura forte scripturus, nisi primordia mea precipitata 
dies mortis abrumpat. Finge me his nequaquam tangi; quam dulce tamen est 
cristiano animo cernere celi instar in terris, sacrosanctis martyrum nervis atque 
ossibus consertam et veri testium preciosa cede respersam; videre verendam populis 
Salvatoris imaginem et in saxo durissimo eternum gentibus adoranda vestigia. (Fam. 
II 9, 26-28) 


Il brano riecheggia un tema accennato anche nel Canzoniere 


Et viene a Roma, seguendo ’! desio, 
Per mirar la sembianza di colui 
Ch’ancor lass nel ciel vedere spera. (XVI) 


9. B. Testa, “Francesco Petrarca a Roma”, Giornale d’Italia, 11 novembre 1942. 


158 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


La prima lettera inviata da Roma (Fam. II 14) é al card. Giovanni Colonna 
il 15 marzo 1337, scritta dal Campidoglio, un luogo emblematico per la storia di 
Roma, dove volle, quattro anni dopo, essere incoronato poeta: sopraffatto dalle 
meraviglie di Roma, resta attonito alla vista delle bellezze di una citta che, nonostante 
le rovine, é nella realté molto pit affascinante dell’immagine che si era costruita 
dai libri; ma la descrizione di Roma non puo essere disgiunta dalla storia che l’ha 
resa grande e magnifica. Ritornera a Roma nel ’41, nel ’43 e nel ’50, in occasione 
del Giubileo, come ricorda nella lettera a Boccaccio del 2 novembre 1350 (Fam. 
XI 1): la prima volta, dice, era andato solo per vedere le meraviglie della citta; 
la seconda per essere incoronato poeta; la terza e quarta volta per il desiderio di 
essere utile ai Colonna. E, successivamente, pit volte, nel 52, nel ’56 e nel ’62, 
manifesto il desiderio di stabilirsi nella citta. L’ammirazione per Roma é suscitata 
dai monumenti pagani come gli archi trionfali (Fam. IX 13, 37), quelli di Camillo 
(Fam. VIII 1, 22), di Pompeo (Fam. VI 2, 11) 0 di Augusto (Fam. VI 2, 13), il 
Campo Marzio (Fam. V 15, 1; VI 2, 7), il carcere Mamertino (Fam. VI 2, 10), 
la casa di Anco Marcio e di Tarquinio Prisco (Fam. VI 2, 6), la casa di Publicola 
(Fam. VI 2, 8), i palazzi dei Cesari (Fam. IX 13, 37), il bosco della Ninfa Egeria, 
il Palatino (Fam. VI 2, 5), il Pantheon (Fam. VI 2, 12), le Terme di Diocleziano 
(Fam. V1 2, 15), ecc. Ma il motivo principale delle sue diverse visite alla citta 
fu frequentare i luoghi cari alla cristianita: le reliquie del Salvatore, 1 sepolcreti 
di martiri (Fam. IX 13, 35), le molte chiese: S. Agnese, S. Lorenzo (Fam. VI 2, 
13), S. Silvestro in Capite (Fam. IX 13, 35), SS. Silvestro e Martino ai Monti, 
(Fam. V1 2, 13; IX 13, 36) o la pietra con le orme del Signore o le sue reliquie 
(Fam. II 9, 28; IX 13, 34-35). 

Innamorato della citta, tenta di risollevarne anche il destino politico e culturale: 
Roma, per essere all’altezza della divina missione di capitale del mondo, deve 
liberarsi dall’oppressione, tirannia e ingiustizie della vecchia classe nobiliare e 
senatoria e ricondurre nella sede voluta da Dio il papato attualmente in esilio ad 
Avignone. Per tali motivi cogliera tutte le occasioni (Epist. I 2 e 15) per ricordare 
ai papi Benedetto XII e Clemente VI il loro stato di prigionieri del re francese e, 
sul piano politico, appoggia il breve esperimento governativo di Cola di Rienzo. 
Singolare é la visita della citta che racconta al domenicano Giovanni Colonna nella 
lettera del 30 novembre 1337; l’improbabile passeggiata per Roma é registrata sul 
filo della memoria dove il vissuto insegue la storia antica della citta: 


hic Evandri regia, hic Carmentis edes, hic Caci spelunca, hic lupa nutrix et 
ruminalis ficus, verioricognomine romularis, hic Remi transitus, hic ludi circenses 
et Sabinarum raptus, hic Capree palus et Romulus evanescens, hic Nume cum 
Egeria colloquium, hic tergeminorum acies. Hic fulmine victus victor hostium 
artifexque militie Tullus Hostilius, hic rex architector Ancus Martius, hic discretor 
ordinum Priscus Tarquinius habitavit; hic Servio caput arsit, hic carpento insidens 
atrox Tullia transivit et scelere suo vicum fecit infamem. ... Hic minax Porsenna, 
et etruscus exercitus, et infestus erranti dextre Mutius, et tyranni filius cum libertate 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 159 


concurrens, et hostem urbe depulsum ad inferos sequens consul, et fractus a tergo 
viri fortis Pons Sublicius, et Horatius natans, et Tyberis revehens Cloeliam. Hic 
erat Publicole nequicquam suspecta domus, hic Quintius arabat dum fieri meruit 
de aratore dictator, hinc abductus Serranus ad consulatum venit... (Fam. VI 2, 
5-8) 


Rimase profondamente addolorato quando venne a conoscenza del terremoto, 
che devasto la citta nel 1349, i cui effetti catastrofici in seguito cosi descrisse: 


Cecidit edificiorum veterum neglecta civibus stupenda peregrinis moles; turris 
illa toto orbe unica que Comitis dicebatur, ingentibus rimis laxata dissiluit et nunc 
velut trunca caput, superbi verticis honorem, solo effusum despicit; denique ut 
ire celestis argumenta non desint, multorum species templorum, atque in primis 
Paulo Apostolo dicate edis bona pars humi collapsa et Lateranensis ecclesie deiectus 
apex, Iubilei ardorem gelido horrore contristant; cum Petro mitius est actum. ... 
Stomacentur et murmurent qui sibi aliquid videntur: mundi caput est Roma, et 
licet obsoletum impexumque, terrarum caput omnium hauddubie Roma est. (Fam. 
XI 7, 5-6) 


2. 3. Anche Napoli gioco un ruolo importante nella memoria dei viaggi del Petrarca: 
in questa citta volle essere esaminato da Roberto d’ Angi nel 1341 e vi soggiornd 
un mese; approfittando di quella occasione visitd i maggiori monumenti tra cui S. 
Martino, la chiesa di S. Chiara, gli affreschi di Giotto nella cappella reale di Castel 
Nuovo, luoghi che ricordera tutti nell’ /tinerarium Syriacum del 1358. 

Solo due anni dopo, nel novembre del 1343, tornd a Napoli, dopo un lungo 
viaggio compiuto in parte per terra e in parte per mare, come ambasciatore per 
conto dei Colonna e del papa, per trattare la liberazione di tre membri della famiglia 
dei Pipini che avevano ordito una congiura contro re Roberto, che ormai era gia 
morto. In questa seconda circostanza, l’impatto con la citta, dove trovo alloggio 
nel convento di S. Lorenzo, nella cui chiesa Boccaccio avrebbe collocato I’incontro 
con Fiammetta, e la corte angioina non fu dei migliori: rimase cosi impressionato 
dall’arroganza, dalla sfrontatezza e dalla influenza di un monaco “spirituale”, fra’ 
Roberto da Mileto, sugli ambienti di corte, da giudicare la nobile Partenope una 
prostituta (“Compatior tibi, mea nobilis Parthenope; vere tu harum quelibet facta 
es”): del resto alla corte ed in citta non esiste “nulla pietas, nulla veritas, nulla fides” 
(Fam. V 3, 8). Compie la sua missione, che tuttavia non ha alcun esito, visitando 
i prigionieri nel carcere di Castel Capuano e contattando i personaggi piu influenti. 
Intende approfittare del soggiorno nella capitale meridionale per raggiungere il 
Gargano e visitare Brindisi, ma vi rinunzia per volere della regina Sancha e visita 
solo i dintorni di Napoli con gli amici Giovanni Barrili e Barbato da Sulmona.'° 
Tali luoghi costituivano per lui un grande interesse soprattutto per le suggestioni 


10. M. Feo, “Inquietudini filologiche del Petrarca: il luogo della discesa agli Inferi. Storia 
di una citazione”, Italia medievale ed umanistica, XVI (1974), 115-183. 


160 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


mitologiche e classiche, ma anche per la singolarita di fenomeni naturali come la 
Solfatara e i Bagni di Pozzuoli o la grotta Napoletana, la cui costruzione era stata 
attribuita dalla tradizione a Virgilio, reputato nel Medioevo come mago,'! fama 
che il Poeta aveva confutato durante l’esame sostenuto due anni prima al cospetto 
di re Roberto: 


Vidi loca a Virgilio descripta; vidi Averni et Lucrini lacus, Acherontis quoque 
stagnantes aquas; piscinam infelicis, natisevitia, Auguste; Gaii Calligule superbam 
olim, nunc obrutum undis iter, et Julii Cesaris iniectum pelago frenum; vidi Sibille 
patriam ac domum, et horrificum illud specus, stultis irremeabile, doctioribus 
inaccessum; vidi Falernum montem famoso palmitem conspicuum, et hic aridam 
tellurem, morbis salutarem fumum perpetuo exhalantem, illic cinerum globos et 
ferventes scatebras, aeni instar undantis, confuso murmure eructantem... (Fam. 
V 4, 5) 


Tali meraviglie, ed altre ancora, colpirono il Petrarca che trovava sempre pit 
motivi per esaltare la civilta romana: il ricordo di Pompeo e di Cesare, di Scipione 
l’Africano combinato con la bellezza del paesaggio permetteva la ricostruzione di 
un ambiente storico e culturale ormai perduto, ma che conservava ancora il suo 
fascino sebbene idealizzato. Scipione é definito “vir incomparabilis” , Pompeo e 
Cesare sono “humanis moribus altiores”, ma accanto a questi eroi dell’ antichita 
é introdoita la strana avventura di una eroina dei suoi tempi: una virago, di nome 
Maria, fa il mestiere d’armi ed é pit forte di molti soldati al punto che riesce a 
spostare una pietra enorme dopo aver assistito alla débacle di quelli che avevano 
tentato la stessa impresa. Ando anche a Baia’’ ed avrebbe voluto visitare la villa 
di Scipione a Literno, ma nessuno seppe indicargli il luogo. 

Il soggiorno nella capitale angioina gli permise di partecipare anche ad alcuni 
episodi che contribuirono a fargli conoscere meglio la realta socio-culturale della 
citta: a Napoli, dice, come in un folto bosco, é pericoloso camminare di notte perché 
si rischia di essere aggrediti anche dai nobili e sfrenati rampolli dell’aristocrazia 
armati di tutto punto. Tuttavia si beffa, ma solo fino ad un certo punto, della 
credulita popolare a proposito di un vescovo astrologo che aveva previsto per il 
25 novembre del 1343 un forte terremoto a Napoli (Fam. V 5). La gente, compresa 
la regina, mossa dal terrore, si sparge per le strade per fare penitenza e affolla le 
chiese per la paura dell’imminente disastro. I] Petrarca, parzialmente impressionato 
da tale clima di paura, aspetta fino a mezzanotte per osservare il tramonto della 
luna; appena coricato, un terribile frastuono lo sveglia e scende con gli altri monaci 
nella chiesa, mentre fuori sopraggiunge una paurosa tempesta. Al mattino, attenuato 


11. D. Comparetti, Virgilio nel Medioevo (ristampa anastatica: Firenze, La Nuova Italia 
1981); L. Petrucci, “Le fonti per la conoscenza della topografia delle terme flegree dal XII 
al XV secolo”, Archivio storico per le province napoletane, Ill s. (1979), 99-129. 


12. E. Pontieri, Baia nel Medioevo (Napoli, Societa napoletana di storia patria, 1977). 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 161 


il temporale, si avvia alla riva del mare dove trova tutte le navi del porto frantumate 
ad eccezione di una con i naufraghi ormai morti: 


Decrepiti naute rem sine exemplo asserunt. In ipso portus medio, fedum ac triste 
naufragium; sparsos equore miseros et vicinam terram manibus prehendere 
molientes, unda saxis impegerat et, ceutotidem tenera ova, disiecerat. Totum elisis 
etadhuc palpitantibus refertum cadaveribus litus erat; huic cerebrum, illi precordia 
fluebant. Hec inter, tantus virorum strepitus tantaque mulierum eiulatio, ut maris 
celique fragorem vincerent. Accedebat edium ruina, quarum multas funditus 
violentior fluctus evertit; cui nullus, die illo, limes, nulla vel humane manus 
reverentia vel nature: statutos fines et litora consueta transcenderat. (Fam. V 5, 
12) 


Avendo assistito, negli ultimi giorni di novembre, ad un cruento spettacolo 
gladiatorio nei pressi di Nola dove un giovane mori pugnalato ai suoi piedi tra gli 
applausi della gente, decise di allontanarsi da una citta cosi barbara e non volle 
piu tornarci. 


2. 4. Da Napoli, nel 1343, Petrarca si avvid a Parma dove rest circa un anno. 
Nel febbraio del ’45, mutate le condizioni politiche, tentd di fuggire da Parma per 
dirigersi a Valchiusa in Provenza e raccontd |’avventura in una lettera a Barbato 
da Sulmona (Fam. V 10). Al tramonto del 23 febbraio esce con pochi compagni 
dalla citta attraversando i posti di guardia; verso mezzanotte arrivano a Reggio non 
prima d’aver affrontato una banda di ladroni. Nello sfuggire all’agguato, 11 cavallo 
inciampa, sbalza da sella il Poeta che resta tramortito mentre infuria un temporale 
di acqua mista a grandine. Petrarca riprende a stento le forze e risale a cavallo; 
le guide, perso l’orientamento, si trovano in un punto fuori strada da dove, pero, 
si sentono le voci delle sentinelle nemiche. Trascorrono la notte all’addiaccio, 
usando i cavalli come tende ed esponendo alla tempesta le loro schiene. Al chiarore 
dell’alba, scoperto un sentiero, siavviano a Scandiano dove apprendono con grande 
sollievo che una squadra di cavalieri nemici li avevano cercati tutta la notte, ma 
poi avevano desistito. Fasciato il braccio in maniera precaria, attraverso le montagne 
giunse a Modena e a Bologna. Dopo qualche tempo si avvid a Verona, nella cui 
biblioteca capitolare scopri, nella primavera del 1345, i sedici libri dell’epistolario 
di Cicerone ad Attico e le lettere al fratello Quinto e a Bruto. L’ammirazione per 
Cicerone, gia grande, si accresce con la scoperta di questo epistolario e |’autore 
latino diventa un modello forte da imitare: é il perfetto uomo di lettere che riesce 
a conciliare l’azione politica con la meditazione filosofica. 

Da Verona, nell’autunno del ’45, intraprese il viaggio verso la Provenza con |’amico 
Guglielmo da Pastrengo,'* che lo accompagn0o solo fino al lago di Garda, al confine 


13. A. Avena, “Guglielmo da Pastrengo e gli inizi dell’umanesimo in Verona”, Alti e 
memorie dell’Accademia di agricoltura, scienze, lettere, artie commercio di Verona (1907), 
288-289. 


162 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


tra Verona e Brescia, dove ci fu un tenero addio. Attraverso il passo di Resia, 
seguendo |’ Adige, arrivo nel Tirolo e da li prosegui per Avignone attraversando 
le Alpi." 

Era di nuovo a Verona nel 1348 quando un forte terremoto lo impressiond 
profondamente: senti il pavimento muoversi sotto i piedi, i libri cadere dagli scaffali; 
la gente, impaurita, affollava le strade e tutti erano scossi dal fenomeno che poteva 
avere conseguenze catastrofiche (Sen. X 2). 

Alla meta del 1349, mentre la famosa peste nera, che infuriava da due anni in 
Europa, veniva attenuandosi, parti da Parma, dove aveva trascorso tutto il ’48, per 
recarsi a Padova e poi si mosse tra Carpi, Ferrara, Verona, Mantova, Suzzara. 

Durante il pellegrinaggio'’ a Roma, nel ’50, si fermd a Firenze dove incontrd 
Giovanni Boccaccio. Per alleviare la noia del viaggio, secondo un diffuso uso 
testimoniato anche dalla novella di madonna Oretta (VI, 1) del Decameron, e dalla 
cornice dei Racconti di Canterbury di Chaucer, e per i pericoli connessi ai ladroni 
che infestavano le strade, taglieggiando i malcapitati pellegrini, che numerosi, 
all’indomani della peste, accorrevano nella citta santa, parti per Roma con alcune 
persone tra cui un anziano abate dall’aspetto venerando, buono e dotto parlatore 
(Fam. X11, 3). Tuttavia un grave incidente colse il Petrarca: uscita la comitiva 
da Bolsena, il cavallo dell’abate si imbizzarri e colpi violentemente con un calcio 
la gamba sinistra del Poeta, al punto di spezzarla; colto da violentissimi dolori, 
si fermd a Viterbo, dove i medici riscontrarono un’infezione alla ferita e gli 
consigliarono quindici giorni di riposo. Al ritorno da Roma ando ad Arezzo per 
visitare i luoghi della sua infanzia, qui apprese che i concittadini avevano voluto, 
per riguardo a lui, ormai famoso, che la casa di nascita rimanesse intatta. 


2. 5. Ma il luogo a lui pit caro e dove sogna sempre di tornare é la sua casa di 
Valchiusa sulla riva del Sorga, luogo di meditazione, di riposo e di fruttuosa 
produzione letteraria. Numerose sono le dichiarazioni d’amore ed entusiasmanti 
le lodi per questa localita che ritiene sublime (Fam. V 1, 5; V 10, 3; VI 3, 68-71; 
VI 5, 18; VII 3, 9-14; VIIL3, 18; X.4, 10-11; XI 6,.4; XI 9, 2; XI 12, 1-6; XI 
12, 10-11; passim). Il luogo, pit volte definito, l’Elicona transalpino, ebbe 
descrizioni trasognate e idilliache (Fam. VI 3, 68-71; VIII 3, 6; X 4, 11; XI 12, 
1, 3, 5, 10; XII 8, 2; XIII 8, 13-16; XV 3, 11; passim); la casa era circondata da 
orti (Fam. XI 12, 10; XIII 11, 13-14; XVI 1, 2) e da colline coperte di boschi dove 
il Poeta era solito passeggiare (Fam. III 19, 4-5; XIII 8, 14-15; XXII 5, 18). Tra 
il 1345 e il ’47 scrisse in questo posto incantevole il De vita solitaria, il De otio 
religioso e il Bucolicum carmen; dal 1351 al ’53, anno in cui decise di tornare 


14. A. Foresti, Aneddoti della vita di Petrarca, cit., pp. 170-77. 


15. H. Massoul, “Un Pélerin de l’année sainte MCCCL: Francois Pétrarque”, Mercure 
de France, CLXXVI (1924), 577-603. 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 163 


definitivamente in Italia, vi continuo il De viris illustribus, scrisse |’ Invectiva contra 
medicum e |e Epistole sine nomine, e compose una parte delle poesie destinate al 
Canzoniere. Famoso é |’epigramma che invid a Philippe de Cabassoles nel 1351: 


Valle locus Clausa toto michi nullus in orbe 
Gratior aut studiis aptior ora meis. 

Valle puer Clausa fueram iuvenemque reversum 
Fovit in aprico vallis amena sinu. 

Valle vir in Clausa meliores dulciter annos 

Exegi et vite candida fila mee. 

Valle senex Clausa supremum ducere tempus 

Et Clausa cupio, te duce, Valle mori. (Fam. XI, 4) 


2.6. Dal ’53 al ’61 il Petrarca visse a Milano, ospite dei Visconti'® fino a quando 
la peste che imperversava nella citta lo costrinse ad andar via. Sembra che il Poeta 
volesse solo stabilirsi in Italia e che per un caso fortuito si fosse fermato a Milano 
(Fam. XVI 11, 9). 

Fino al 1359 abitd in una casa accanto alla chiesa di S. Ambrogio da dove 
godeva di uno splendido panorama con scorci sulla citta dominata dalle Alpi gia 
bianche di neve a fine estate: 


Habito interim in extremo urbis ad occiduam plagam secus Ambrosii basilicam. 
Saluberrima domus est, levum ad ecclesie latus, que ante se plumbeum templi 
pinnaculum geminasque turres in ingressu, retro autem menia urbis et frondentes 
late agros atque Alpes prospicit nivosas estate iam exacta. (Fam. XVI 11, 11) 


anche se per lui lo spettacolo pit bello, che osservava da una finestra, era una 
scultura “viva e spirante” diS. Ambrogio collocata nella navata destra della chiesa. 

Successivamente si trasferi in una casa nei pressi del monastero benedettino 
di San Simpliciano dove diceva di voler condurre una vita appartata e solitaria. 
Nell’autunno del ’54, durante il soggiorno a Milano, l’imperatore Carlo IV di 
Lussemburgo scese in Italia per essere incoronato, l’anno seguente, a Roma dal 
card. Pierre Bertrand de Colombier. Giunto l’imperatore a Mantova, il Petrarca 
volle incontrarlo e rimase in quella citta una decina di giorni. I colloqui con Carlo 
IV furono raccontati poi, nei particolari, nella lettera XIX 3 delle Familiari, la stessa 
nella quale aveva narrato in maniera assai vivace le difficolta e i disagi affrontati 
durante il viaggio per raggiungere la citta: 


Iam hiems miris modis indurerat ... Ad II Idus Decembris hinc movi, neque tam 
terreum quam adamantinum atque chalybeum iter erat et glaciei metus non nisi 


16. G. Galbiati, “Sulle orme lombarde di Francesco Petrarca”, Annali della cattedra 
petrarchesca, Iv (1933), 89-136; C. N. Gadda, “Il Petrarca a Milano”, Smeraldo, xm, 2 
(1959), 7-16; U. Dotti, Petrarca a Milano. Documenti milanesi (1353-1354) (Milano, 
Ceschina, 1972) e Vita di Petrarca (Bari, Laterza, 1987), pp. 318-356. 


164 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


nivis solatio levabatur, que ipsa etiam preter morem nescio quid horrificum habebat. 
Captabamus tamen omni studio ubi nequicquam armati in glaciem equorum pedes 
utcunque consisterent, et ruine pavor assiduus vie laborem fecerat non sentiri. Ad 
hec et brume et algori nebula, qualis in memoria hominum non est, et celo immiti 
terrarum vastitas accesserat et solitudo horrida ... Strate passim domus, habitator 
nullus fumosaque tecta villarum et dumosa novalia et hinc illinc erumpentes e 
latebris armati, quanquam sine noxa, ut qui nostri essent, non tamen sine horrore 
quodam, presentis adhuc belli vestigia preferebant. ... Mediolano autem digressus, 
quarta luce, imo vero quartis seu certe continuis tenebris, Mantuam veni, ubi ab 
illo nostrorum cesarum successore plusquam familiaritate cesarea et plusquam 
imperatoria lenitate susceptus sum. (Fam. XIX 3, 8-11) 


Ospite dei Visconti, fu inviato da loro, insieme a Sagremor de Pommier, in 
missione diplomatica presso l’imperatore che pensavano si trovasse a Basilea.'’ 
I due ambasciatori rimasero un mese intero in quella “non grande, ma bella citta 
e solidamente fabbricata” (Sen. X 27), ospiti del vescovo, in attesa dell’arrivo di 
Carlo IV, ma poi, avendo saputo che I’imperatore era a Praga, si diressero 14 e 
vi rimasero per tutto il mese di luglio. Un gruppo di Familiari del XXI libro (1-2, 
5-8) sono dedicate a questa missione diplomatica e al resoconto degli incontri con 
l’imperatore. 

Un/altra descrizione di Milano si legge nella lettera 14 del XX libro delle stesse 
Familiari a proposito di un rigidissimo inverno che colse la citta nel 58, quando 
si accumuld tra le Alpi e 1’ Appennino tanta neve e gelo che nessuno ricordava cosi 
abbondanti. Il freddo superd anche il menzionato inverno di quattro anni prima 
che gia era stato giudicato terribile. In citta crollarono case ed alberi sotto il peso 
della neve, la gente se ne stava rintanata nelle case per il freddo cosi rigido che 
gelava addirittura l’inchiostro del Poeta. 

Nell’inverno del ’61 affronto una nuova missione diplomatica a Parigi per conto 
dei Visconti: durante il viaggio verso la citta ebbe modo di constatare le rovine 
e la distruzione che la lunga guerra anglo-francese aveva prodotto: Parigi, pid volte 
incendiata, ne risultava deturpata al punto che la Senna sembrava piangere le miserie 
della citta (Fam. XXII 14, 3-4). Anche il viaggio di ritorno fu disagevole per il 
passaggio delle Alpi in pieno inverno e in mezzo al ghiaccio. Scrisse una lettera, 
che poi non spedi se non a settembre, a Pietro di Poitier, priore di S. Eligio a Parigi 
dalle “disadorne e scomode camere degli alberghi” (Fam. XXII 13, 10). 


2.7. Allontanatosi da Milano a causa della peste, dopo un breve soggiorno a Padova 
(citta del resto splendida e antichissima, ma diventata un porcile perché questi 
animali, lasciati scorazzare liberamente per le strade, insozzavano e deturpavano 
il tessuto urbano: Sen. XIV 1), abitd pil o meno stabilmente a Venezia, ospite dei 


17. G. Binz, “Petrarca in Basel”, Basler Nachtrichten, Sonntagsblatt, 14 (1933). 











Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 165 


dogi, nel palazzo Molin sulla riva degli Schiavoni dal 1361 al ’68.'* La citta, 
bella, tranquilla e accogliente, é grandissima e costituisce un regno potente (Sen. 
IX 1); per la folla di mercanti di ogni razza essa é il “porto dell’umanita” (Fam. 
XXIII 14, 4). Ma la lode pid estesa a Venezia ricorre nella lettera a Pietro da 
Moglio:'* essa é il rifugio dei buoni, il luogo della liberta, della giustizia e della 
pace; ricca d’oro, ha palazzi rivestiti di marmo ed é circondata dai mare che la 
protegge meglio delle mura; ma cid che é pit importante, essa é governata da uomini 
saggi. Recentemente ha recuperato la signoria su Candia e ora pud festeggiare 
l’avvenimento con grande sfarzo: una galea ornata di verdi rami annuncia, 
avvicinandosi a gonfie vele, la lieta notizia agitando bandiere nemiche come trofei, 
mentre la gente si affolla sui lidi. Scendono a terra gli ambasciatori che narrano 
nei particolari la vittoria sui ribelli che tentavano di sottrarre Candia al dominio 
veneziano. Si organizzano subito fastosi e magnifici spettacoli, giostre, tornei, giochi 
e feste che durano diversi giorni. Piazza S. Marco @ gremita di persone fino 
all’inverosimile: viene eretto un palco sulla destra della piazza da cui quattrocento 
gentildonne elegantissime assistono di pomeriggio agli spettacoli e di mattina e di 
sera partecipano ai conviti (Sen. IV 3). Tuttavia mentre a Venezia una volta 
approdavano navi cariche di frumento, ora, invece, mutati i tempi, sono piene di 
schiavi venduti dagli stessi genitori (Sen. X 2). In quella citta fu raggiunto nel ’63 
dagli amici Giovanni Boccaccio e Leonzio Pilato che restarono con lui tre mesi; 
insieme a Donato Albanzani e al cancelliere Benintendi Ravagnani spesso di sera 
andavano in gondola per la laguna (Sen. III 1). Altro squarcio di vita quotidiana 
é raccontato in una lettera a Francesco Bruni: mentre redigeva la missiva, udi 
improvvisamente delle grida di marinai; salito sulla parte pid alta della casa, da 
dove si scorgeva il porto, vide, nel mare in tempesta, una enorme nave, che fino 
ad allora era stata alla fonda, salpare lentamente verso il medio Oriente: lo spettacolo 
gli procur6 una grande pieta per i marinai che rischiavano la vita (“Quanto la vita 
é cara agli uomini e in quanto poco conto essa é tenuta da loro” Sen. II 3). 

Nel ’67 risali in un viaggio il Po e il Ticino da Venezia a Pavia (Sen. XV 8) 
e il lento scorrere dei fiumi gli permise addirittura di scrivere sulla barca una risposta 
a quattro averroisti che si proclamavano suoi amici, ma non lo tenevano in gran 
conto perché il Poeta non condivideva le loro teorie. 

Un secondo viaggio sul Ticino e sul Po, in alternativa alla poca sicurezza offerta 
dalle strade e per un forte dolore alla tibia, fu effettuato dal Petrarca da Pavia (del 
resto mirabilmente descritta e inserita nella propria regione nella lettera al Boccaccio, 


18. A. Foresti, “Per la storia dei rapporti del Petrarca con Venezia”, Archivio veneto 
tridentino, X (1926), 188-202. 


19. G. Billanovich, “Petrarca, Pietro da Moglio e Pietro da Parma”, Italia medioevale e 
umanistica, XXII (1979), 367-412 e “Giovanni del Virgilio, Pietro da Moglio, Francesco 
da Fiano”, Italia medioevale e umanistica, V1 (1963), 203-234; vil (1964), 279-324. 


166 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


forse, del 22 dicembre 1365:° Sen. V 1) a Padova in occasione di una missione 
diplomatica nel maggio 1368: stentd pit di un mese a trovare un barcaiolo che 
potesse traghettarlo fino a destinazione a causa della guerra in corso e molti 
giudicarono temerario quel viaggio. Petrarca ei servi incontrarono lungo il tragitto 
flottiglie di armati e mentre i servi tremavano e impallidivano, egli, fiducioso nella 
sua notorieta, riusci sempre a superare ogni ostacolo, anzi laddove la gente comune 
sarebbe stata assalita e depredata dai soldati, egli invece riempi la barca di bottiglie, 
di cacciagione, di frutta e di ogni specie di regali. Arrivato a Padova fu accolto 
da Francesco Carrara, che lo aspettd nonostante la pioggia (Sen. XI 2).”" 

Fu lo stesso signore di Padova che dono al Poeta un terreno ad Arqua, dove 
costrui una casa nella quale poi sarebbe morto. Da questa dimora, nel 1372, scrisse 
due lettere (Sen. XIII 12 e XVI 4) a Philippe de Cabassole, ormai cardinale di 
Sabina, nelle quali ricordava gli antichi tempi di Valchiusa, la dolcezza delle 
passeggiate nei boschi, quando sfuggivano ai servi che li cercavano ed essi stessi 
si meravigliavano di essere arrivati al tramonto senza prendere cibo; ma ormai era 
anziano e non riusciva a percorrere nemmeno un miglio a cavallo e si rammaricava 
che la salute scemasse di giorno in giorno. La morte lo colse il 19 luglio del 1374. 


3. 1. Il Petrarca affrontd la maggior parte dei viaggi per terra, pochi per mare 
e per via fluviale. 

L’insicurezza delle strade per la presenza di bande armate di ladri e per le 
numerose guerre locali che scoppiavano all’improvviso costituivano 1 pericoli 
maggiori che un viaggiatore era costretto ad affrontare nel medioevo; a questo 
bisogna aggiungere che ci si spostava a cavallo o su carri che, specialmente nella 
cattiva stagione, non offrivano molto riparo. Temporali, forte vento e neve 
costringevano spesso i viaggiatori a soste prolungate anche di parecchi giorni e 
bisognava essere ben forniti di danaro (Fam. XVI 8, 5) per una permanenza forzata 
oppure essere Ospitati gratuitamente con la promessa di restituire |’ ospitalita oppure 
confidare nell’ ospitalita di un personaggio importante (Fam. XV 2). Tuttavia i rischi 
del viaggio non spaventano il Poeta: d’altra parte egli, ormai famoso e persona di 
riguardo, non cammina come l’umile viaggiatore che affronta un itinerario 
sconosciuto e denso di pericoli 0 privo delle comodita offerte dai suoi tempi. Per 
tali evenienze il Poeta a Valchiusa aveva incaricato uncontadino di preparargli ogni 
volta il preventivo di spesa prima di un viaggio: esso si rivelava cosi esatto che 
il servo gli sembrava addirittura suo compagno di viaggio pronto ad annotare in 
ogni albergo la lista della spesa. Nella stessa lettera il Petrarca confessa che il 
continuo girovagare gli aveva procurato molta esperienza e che sarebbe andato anche 


20. Per la datazione di questa lettera cfr. E. H. Wilkins, Petrarch’s Eight Years in Milan 
(Cambridge, Mass., 1958), pp. 81-91 e 312. 


21. G. Bongiovanni, Sulle orme di Francesco Petrarca (Milano, Gastaldi, 1955). 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 167 


nell’estremo Oriente, se non lo avesse frenato lo studio e l’amore per i libri e la 
ricerca di una vita solitaria e contemplativa. Tuttavia spesso i libri gli hanno 
permesso di fare con l’immaginazione lunghi viaggi e “in un’ora andare e tornare 
non solo sano e salvo, ma anche senza sforzi, senza incomodi, senza spese, senza 
fastidi di bronchi, di spine, di fango, di polvere” (Sen. IX 2). 


3. 1. 1. Viaggiando in compagnia di amici 0 dei servi, come del resto era usanza 
nel Medioevo, per organizzare un viaggio bisognava prepararsi per tempo: era 
necessario comprare cavalli, che d’inverno andavano ferrati con speciali ferri “a 
ghiaccio” (Fam. XIX 3, 8-11), predisporre le masserizie, che qualche volta 
consistevano anche in bagagli di libri che correvano il rischio di essere danneggiati 
(Fam. XV 2, 9; XV 3, 4). Il Petrarca aveva una buona esperienza di cavalli: 
conosceva quelli robusti che hanno bisogno di buon cibo (Fam. VI 3, 62); quelli 
pigri a correre e a salire, paurosi nel combattimento e insofferenti di compagnia 
(Fam. V1 6, 2) oppure cavalli che evidenziano i loro difetti solo in presenza di 
cavalieri inesperti (Fam. XXII 2, 5). Procurarsi cavalli non era impresa facile, 
perché dovevano essere numerosi e resistenti per affrontare talvolta centinaia di 
miglia: in una lettera del dicembre del ’69 a papa Urbano V lo informa che si sta 
gia preoccupando di acquistare i cavalli da usare in primavera e dovranno essere 
numerosi perché cosi vuole “la vanita, l’orgoglio, il lusso” dei tempi e sarebbe 
sembrato “disdicevole se una nuvola di polvere non si alzasse da una numerosa 
schiera di cavalli e di servi”; e mentre ordinariamente egli ne ha bisogno solo di 
due, sarebbe poco prestigioso andare a Roma dal pontefice con un numero cosi 
esiguo di cavalcature (Sen. XI 16). In gioventt il Poeta aveva affrontato lunghi 
viaggi a cavallo, ma dal ’72, come abbiamo gia riferito, si lamentava con Philippe 
de Cabassoles di non riuscire a stare a cavallo per pit di un miglio. 

Questo mezzo di trasporto era stato di gran lunga preferito dal Petrarca, tanto 
é vero che nel viaggio intrapreso per mare nel novembre del ’43 da Nizza a Napoli, 
colto all’altezza di Porto Maurizio da una tempesta che lo costrinse a sbarcare a 
causa del mal di mare, continuo il viaggio via terra dopo aver trovato sulla spiaggia 
un albergo con una cuccetta da marinaio e acquistato dei cavalli tedeschi, mentre 
lascid viaggiare per mare i servi e i bagagli (Fam. V 3, 2-3). Mauncavallo poteva 
inciampare in una buca, su un tronco o in un sasso e il cavaliere cadere e ferirsi 
anche in maniera grave; talvolta il cavallo poteva fungere da riparo durante un 
temporale, come avvenne nella fuga da Parma nel °45 (Fam. V 10, 5e7).” E 
potevano accadere altri tipi di incidente: nel gia menzionato viaggio a Roma per 
il giubileo nel 1350, durante una sosta presso Bolsena, il cavallo del vecchio abate 
lo colpi con un calcio alla tibia al punto da fratturarla (Fam. XI 1, 7-10). 


3. 1. 2. Si viaggiava per sentieri e su strade che, a causa delle condizioni climatiche, 


22. E. Bevilacqua, “Parma e il Petrarca”, Aurea Parma, xi, 3-4 (1929), 20-32. 


168 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


d’estate erano polverose e d’inverno allagate (Fam. XV 2, 8) con enormi disagi 
dei viandanti e, poiché erano facilmente soggette a usura per il passaggio di carri, 
cavalli ed altri animali avrebbero dovuto essere affidate, auspicava il Poeta, anche 
per il loro valore strategico, non solo alla cura dei cittadini, ma soprattutto dei 
governanti e signori delle citta (Sen. XIV 1). Esse potevano, per cause di guerra, 
anche essere chiuse 0 impedite come quando il Petrarca fu costretto a scendere sul 
Po da Pavia a Padova nel ’68. 

Molto importante e prestigioso era ritenuto il viaggio per conto di un potente 
O per motivi politici: in un’altra lettera all’imperatore Carlo IV, raccomandandogli 
l’amico Sagremor de Pommier, ascrive a suo merito l’aver viaggiato per conto 
dell’imperatore e dell’ Impero molte volte, affrontando piogge e calori inopportuni 
e attraversando le Alpi in tutte le condizioni atmosferiche (Fam. XXI 7, 2-10). 

Nella disavventura dell’incontro con i predoni incorse anche il Petrarca: abbiamo 
gia visto (Fam. II 12, 5-7) come la presenza di ladroni presso Capranica potesse 
trasformare un paesaggio idilliaco in un inferno; all’indomani dell’incoronazione 
a poeta sul Campidoglio, nel 1341, fu assalito, appena uscito da Roma, da ladroni 
armati che lo costrinsero a rientrare in citta e usci soltanto il giorno seguente protetto 
da una scorta armata (Fam. IV 8, 3). Anche nel febbraio del ’45, quando tentd 
la gia descritta sortita da Parma, giunto nelle vicinanze di Reggio, fu minacciato 
da terribili grida di morte di predoni che assalirono lui e i compagni impreparati 
ed inermi: unico scampo fu la fuga con il favore delle tenebre (Fam. V 10, 4). 
In una lettera al famoso Socrate del 22 giugno 1349 (Fam. VIII 9, 17-20), racconta 
come sia venuto a conoscenza della morte dell’amico Mainardo Accursio per mano 
di ladroni sull’ Appennino mentre si dirigeva verso Firenze: quando la comitiva fu 
presa d’assalto, camminavano in fila indiana non sospettando di nulla; il primo a 
cadere fu Mainardo perché avanzava in testa; Olimpio con la spada sguainata accorse 
sul luogo e da solo tenne testa a pit di dieci ladroni e, sebbene ferito, si salvo. 
I predoni si impossessarono del bottino, ma temendo di essere a loro volta presi 
dai contadini, protetti da alcuni nobili del luogo, si rifugiarono nei loro castelli. 
La piaga dei ladri era diffusa in tutta I’Italia: infestavano il regno di Napoli (Fam. 
XV 7, 9) come i valichi alpini (Fam. XXIII 8, 8) e sebbene il Petrarca esortasse 
i Fiorentini a liberarsi di loro soprattutto nel tratto appenninico e nell’imminenza 
del giubileo del 1350 (Fam. VIII 10, 29), questo flagello non sara mai estirpato 
finché ci saranno i ricettatori (Fam. VIII 10, 32). 


3. 1. 3. Per la navigazione, soprattutto d’inverno, aveva una grande avversione 
perché il mal di mare gli scatenava la nausea (Fam. IV 6, 3); aveva lo stomaco 
in subbuglio (esperienza raccontata anche in Sen. IX 2 a proposito di viaggiatori 
in partenza da Venezia) quando nel ’43 approdo a causa di una tempesta a Porto 
Maurizio (Fam. V 3, 1-3; Epyst. XV 1-5, 19-24); prende a pretesto il mal di mare 
per non accettare |’invito di Giovannolo Mandello di accompagnarlo in Terrasanta 
(Itin. 1, 3). Esperienze di naufragio ne ebbe fin da piccolo quando per poco rischid 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 169 


di morire (Fam. I 1, 23); aveva appreso, per conoscenza diretta o indiretta, che 
in pericolo di naufragio i piloti non devono lasciare le sartie, i remi o il timone, 
i passeggeri non devono abbandonare la prora e affollarsi sulla poppa e volersi 
sostituire a tutti i costi al timoniere (Sen. VII 1), che le navi si possono spezzare 
sul lido a causa di una furiosa tempesta (Fam. V1 9, 2), come accadde quando nel 
golfo di Napoli vide navi marsigliesi sommerse dalla tempesta cui abbiamo gia fatto 
cenno (Fam. V 5, 16). Nella conclusione della medesima lettera manifesta a 
Giovanni Colonna tutto il suo fastidio per il mare: 


Hec hesterne historie summa est, que ne frustra digitos meos auresque tuas 
detinuerit ... hoc unum michi certe prestiterit, ut te obsecrem ne me unquam 
amplius vitam ventis ac fluctibus credere iubeas. Hoc enim est in quo neque tibi 
neque Romano Pontifici neque patri meo, siad lucem redeat, parere velim. Aerem 
volucribus, mare piscibus relinquo; terrenum animal, terrestre iter eligo. Dum 
pes meus terram calcet, nec pharetratum Sarmatam, nec ludentem in hospitibus 
Maurum adire renuo; mitte me quo vis, ne Indos quidem excipio; alioquin - parce 
confesso - non decembribus tantum Saturnalibus, sed toto anno libertate utar. Quid 
enim, oro, michi amplius suadeas, aut quibus me unquam verbis aggrediaris, ut 
navigem? ’Firmam puppim, doctos nautas elige’? At his utrunque contigerat. "Cum 
sole portum pete, noctu anchoram demitte, hostis occursum cave, lege litoris oram’? 
At hi, diurnis horis, in portu anchora arenis tenacibus affixa, et pene litus ipsum 
remigio tangentes, inter tot milia miserantium amicorum, periere. Hec ego non 
legi, non audivi, sed oculis meis vidi. Itaque desine iantandem; et in hoc saltem 
pavori meo pudor tuus ignoscat. Scio quid adversus hec a doctioribus disputetur; 
ubique par periculum, etsi in mari clarius appareat. Sit ita; tu tamen ingenue feceris, 
Si in terris ortum in terris mori permiseris. (Fam. V 5, 19-21) 


Infine una indiretta, ma dolorosissima esperienza di tempesta fu la notizia della 
morte, raccontata poi nella lettera a Boccaccio (Sen. VI 1), dell’amico Leonzio Pilato 
(da cui sperava di avere una traduzione in latino dell’ //iade e dell’ Odissea) colpito 
da un fulmine mentre, terrorizzato, si stringeva all’albero della nave durante il 
viaggio di ritorno da Bisanzio. Quando il mare si calmo, il cadavere fu gettato 
a mare. 

Nonostante tutta la sua avversione per il mare, era consapevole dei problemi 
connessi alla navigazione:”? una nave non puo essere caricata oltre il necessario 
altrimenti diventa poco agile e rischia di affondare (Fam. XIX 17, 5) e un pilota 
abile deve saper fermare e legare la nave con la fune o con I’ancora vicino alla 
riva 0 in un porto (Fam. VI 3, 58) ed, eventualmente, tirarla in secco e metterla 
al coperto (Fam. XV 8, 15): egli guarda tranquillo il mare agitato perché tante volte 
é riuscito a mettersi al riparo sotto il fianco di un’isola (Fam. X 5, 25) o ha 
ricondotto nel porto la nave sconquassata e disarmata (Fam. X 3, 4). Un buon 


23. P.S. Orsi, “Passi marinareschi nelle lettere di Francesco Petrarca”, Rivista di cultura 
marinara, n°. 11-12 (1948), 77-85. 


170 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


nocchiero non deve avere cicatrici sul dorso (Fam. X 3, 14) e per raccogliere gli 
ultimi soffi del vento che cade deve diminuire il seno della vela (Fam. XV 1, 3); 
cosi come 1 marinai non si affliggono, anzi sopportano serenamente di dover 
seppellire i loro morti in mare (Fam. II 2, 7 e 11). 


3.1.4. Come si é gia visto, ebbe anche esperienza di navigazione fluviale: avrebbe 
viaggiato in barca sul Rodano in alternativa alle strade nel 1333 tornando da 
Aquisgrana (Fam. 15, 18), ma sa pure che il Rodano confluisce con I’ Arar nella 
regione della Saona (Fam. I 5, 16). In una lettera del 30 novembre 1337 (Fam. 
VI 3, 67-68) avverte il card. Giovanni Colonna che, per alleviare i fastidi della 
podagra di cui soffre, é di gran lunga preferibile un viaggio sul fiume e gli indica 
la via per arrivare ad Avignone: 


Inter servorum manus ad Anienem, Tiburtina menia prelabentem, perges; 1bi 
navicule impositos prono alveo descendes, donec ad dexteram Tybris occurrerit; 
inde, iam latioriamne, per ipsius urbis Rome menia, ad mare pervenies; inde etiam 
dextrorsum, sed fortiori alno creditus, Thirreni sinus equoris obibis; donec, longe 
relicta Massilia, rursus ad dexteram, rate fluminea Rodani ostio subvehare, qua 
vetus Arelas palustribus vadis et lapidosa planitie, mox in rupe horrida tristis sedet 
Avenio olim, nunc Avinio ... inde, semper adverso flumine, tribus passuum milibus 
aut paulo amplius ascendens, argenteum gurgitem obvium habebis ad dexteram; 
flecte iter: Sorgia est, placidisssimus fluviorum, cuius aquis quindecim aut circiter, 
passuum milia conscendens, nulli secundum fontem, lucidissimi amnis originem, 
videbis, et incumbentem scatebris prealtam rupem, ut iam transiri ulterius nec 
possit nec oporteat. 


Ha visto il Reno a Colonia e alla sorgente e sa anche che si divide in due (Fam. 
XIX 13, 2-3), ma sulla sua navigabilita dice poco o nulla. Il Tevere é menzionato 
pit per la sua valenza storica (Fam. 1 5, 8; VI 2, 8, 12; VIII 1, 22 passim), ma, 
come abbiamo visto, anche per la sua navigabilita. A Luzzara ha assistito alla piena 
del Po ed ha visto la pianura allagata, fenomeno che avviene, dice, quando soffia 
lo scirocco e si sciolgono le nevi delle Alpi. In tale occasione le acque nemmeno 
per i cavalli sono potabili (Fam. IX 10, 1-3). 


3.2. Nonmancano descrizioni di luoghi “dal vivo” come la contemplazione delle 
Alpi che vedeva dalla casa di Milano 0 come la seguente vivace immagine della 
catena montuosa osservata dalle pendici: 


Videbimus impendentes lacubus Alpes aerias ac nivosas, estate gratissimum 
spectaculum, et silvas astra tangentes, atque inter concava rupium querulos rivos, 
summisque de montibus magno cum sonitu cadentia flumina, et quocunque te 
verteris, avium murmur ac fontium (Fam. VIII 5, 11); 


o lo sgomento per doverle attraversare (Fam. VIII 2, 1; XVII 6, 3; XVII 7), ma 
viene citato anche il passo del Monginevro (Fam. X19, 2), il passo degli Appennini 
(Fam. IV 13, 3, VIII 10, 31) dove fu ucciso il suo amico Accursio; la descrizione 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 171 


di Genova (Fam. XIV 5, 23-24), il racconto del viaggio fino a Napoli nel 1341 
(Fam. V 3, 1-7) ecc. Anche la curiosita di sapere, mettendo in discussione le 
“auctoritates” che pongono a occidente, molto lontana dall’ oriente e dal mezzogiorno, 
isola di Thule, “ultimam terrarum”, deve essere soddisfatta “partim visu partim 
assiduo commeantium testimonio” non diversamente da come si possa conoscere 
I’Italia o la Francia (Fam. III 1, 1).% Questa stessa tendenza e volonta di prestare 
fede solo a cid che “ante oculos est” e di voler riferire “hec quantum potuimus 
scrupolosius inquirentes, tam apud scriptores presertim cosmographos quam in 
descriptionibus terrarum et quibusdam cartis vetustissimis que ad manus nostras 
venerunt” enunciata nella glossa al Virgilio Ambrosiano” in margine ad £n. III, 
530-531, da la misura che in Petrarca si ravvisa un modo nuovo, si direbbe 
filologico, di concepire la conoscenza del mondo. Con lo stesso metodo discute 
nel De Vita solitaria V ubicazione delle popolazioni pit lontane della terra (Iperborei, 
Arinfei, ecc.) fondandosi su Mela, Solino e Plinio. 

Abbondano le descrizioni 0 definizioni topiche dei luoghi o di singoli elementi: 
il Danubio, apprende dalle opere di Elio Sparziano o di Volcazio Gallicano, scorre 
tra “asperrimis ripis” (Fam. VII 1, 4), é grande come il Nilo (Fam. IX 13, 32) 
e bagna luoghi selvaggi (Fam. XVII 7, 4); il Nilo, invece, ha fertili foci (Fam. 
III 15, 1) e costituisce il confine della terra insieme con |’Istro, il Gange, 1’Ebro 
e il Tanai (Fam. XXIV 4, 15) e le espressioni come “Syria mollis, ... Gallia dura, 
loquaxque Grecia, et Illiricum” (Afr. 1290-92) si confondono, in una visione ibrida, 
con concezioni ritenute veritiere come la configurazione dell’orbe terraqueo, Ovvero 
il mondo concepito come una piccola isola circondata dall’ Oceano (Afr. 1361-406). 
Le fonti principali di informazione, per i luoghi non visitati, sono gli autori classici 
o geografi come Pomponio Mela e Vibio Sequestre che recupera ad Avignone nel 
1335 e successivamente consultati anche dal Boccaccio,” mentre a Mantova nel 
°50 acquista la Naturalis Historia di Plinio.”’ In seguito i codici di queste opere 


24. F. Lo Parco, “‘L’ultima Thule’ nell’intuizione e nella divinazione di Francesco Petrarca”, 
Rivista geografica italiana, xvM (1912), 25-34. 


25. Francisci Petrarce, Vergilianus Codex ad Publii Vergilii Maronis diem natalem bis 
millesimum celebrandum quam simillime expressus atque in lucem et Regia in Insubribus 
Accademia studiis doctrinae litterisque provehendis. Prefatus est Johannes Galbiati. Ascita 
etiam Achillis Rattis (nunc Pii XI Pont. Max.) de hoc codice commentatione. Mediolani 
Anno Natali, 1930. In aedibus Hoeplianis. (Riprod. Facsim.) 


26. G. Billanovich, “Dall’antica Ravenna alle biblioteche umanistiche”, Annuario 
dell’Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore (1955-1957), pp. 71-107 (gia in Aevum, xxx [1956], 
319-353); P. Parroni, ed., Pomponii Melae De Chorographia (Roma: Storia e Letteratura), 
pp. 58ss. 


27. C.M. Gormley, M. A. Rouse, R. H. Rouse, “The Medieval Circulation of the De 
Chorographia of Pomponius Mela”, Medieval Studies, XLV1 (1984), 266-320; M. Milanesi, 
“La rinascita della geografia dell’Europa: 1350-1480”, in S. Gensini, Europa e Mediterraneo 
tra Medioevo e prima Eta Moderna: l’osservatorio italiano (San Miniato, 1992; Collana 


172 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


ebbero una vasta diffusione e furono largamente citati dagli amici e discepoli del 
Petrarca 0 comunque da scrittori influenzati da lui come il De originibus rerum 
libellus di Guglielmo da Pastrengo (redatto tra il 1345 e il 50); il De montibus, silvis, 
nemoribus, fontibus, lacubus, fluminibus, stagnis et maribus di Boccaccio (tra il 
1355 e il ’74); il De insulis di Domenico Silvestri (tra il 1385 e il 1406); il Fons 
memorabilium universi di Domenico Bandini da Arezzo (fine del XIV secolo).” 

Una copiosa utilizzazione del materiale classico, in maniera topica, si ritrova 
nel cosiddetto Itinerarium Syriacum redatto dal Petrarca nel 1358” che ebbe una 
notevole diffusione in particolare nel XV secolo.” Altre fonti sono Solino e, in 
maniera indiretta, |’Eneide di Virgilio, la Guerra giugurtina di Sallustio, le 
Metamorfosi e gli Amori di Ovidio, gli Annali di Tacito, la Farsaglia di Lucano, 
le Antichita Giudaiche e la Guerra Giudaica di Giuseppe Flavio, la Tebaide di Stazio, 
la Consolazione della filosofia di Boezio, ecc. 

Nelle descrizioni geografiche, dal punto di vista discorsivo, si possono notare, 
grosso modo, due tipi di esposizione: a) una narrazione, dove é preminente la 
funzione referenziale, che concerne il paesaggio urbano, civile, con le sue 
contraddizioni, incoerenze e dove sono espresse anche valutazioni etiche di 
comportamenti sociali pil o meno strani o accettabili, giudizi sulle persone o su 
fenomeni sociali (ladroni, avidita del personale ecclesiastico, guerre, ecc.); b) una 
descrizione di paesaggi naturali dove si osserva, invece, la prevalenza della funzione 
lirica in paesaggi trasognati e convenzionali oppure la mistione degli elementi 
referenziali e topici con gli elementi lirici. 


4.1. Inrealta si pud dire che la sua esistenza si sia svolta in una continua alternanza 
tra la ricerca di una vita contemplativa e ascetica, anche se profondamente laica, 
e in una sorta di aristocrazia dello spirito, nella solitudo e nell’ocium, e i viaggi 
dettati in gran parte da contingenze storiche e politiche personali o dagli interessi 
di qualche potente per il quale, in quel momento, prestava servizio. Molto raramente 
fece viaggi per suo personale ed esclusivo piacere, come, ad esempio, |’ascensione 
al monte Ventoso con il fratello Gherardo (Fam. IV 1), oppure i diversi ritorni al 
suo soggiorno di Valchiusa alla ricerca della sospirata solitudine. Certamente 


di Studi e Ricerche del Centro Studi sulla Civilta del Tardo Medigevo, n°4), pp. 35-59. 


28. M. Pastore Stocchi, “La cultura geografica dell’Umanesimo”, in AA. VV. Optima 
Hereditas. Sapienza giuridica romana e conoscenza dell’ecumene (Milano, 1992), pp. 561-586 
e Tradizione medievale e gusto umanistico nel ‘De montibus’ del Boccaccio (Padova, 1963). 


29. L’“Itinerarium” del Petrarca, acura di G. Lumbroso, in Rendiconti della R. Accademia 
dei Lincei, classe scienze morali, storiche e filologiche, Iv (1888), 390-403 (ora in Memorie 
del buon tempo antico. Torino, 1889, pp. 16-49). 


30. Volgarizzamento meridionale anonimo di Francesco Petrarca Itinerarium breve de Ianua 
usque ad lerusalem et Terram Sanctam, ed. crit. di A. Paolella (Bologna, Commissione per 
i Testi di Lingua, 1993). 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 173 


metteva in tutti i viaggi una notevole dose di curiositas intellettuale. 

Ma come si delinea la sua concezione del viaggio? Il Poeta afferma che si 
compiono viaggi per terre e per mari innanzitutto per il desiderio di conoscere, 
per ragioni di studio, per coltivare la mente o curare la salute, accrescere il 
patrimonio, per necessita di guerra o per motivi politici (ambascerie 0 esilio) (Fam. 
II 3, 6-8), ma se diventa smania, indica solo il bisogno e la voglia di fuggire la 
noia delle usanze, delle abitudini e delle fatiche quotidiane per cui é spesso segno 
di leggerezza e di incostanza d’animo (Fam. III 2, 3). Un autentico elogio del 
viaggio é la bellissima lettera al doge di Venezia, Andrea Dandolo, di incerta 
datazione, ma probabilmente redatta intorno al 1352 (Fam. XV 4), il cui tema 
centrale é l’utilita e necessita dei viaggi soprattutto per lui che, a causa di una 
profonda inquietudine esistenziale, non riesce a trovare una dimora fissa: é vero 
che una persona sana deve sapere stare bene con se stessa, ma cid non pud voler 
significare che il viaggio impedisca questa condizione psicologica; molti, invece, 
che non sono mai usciti dal loro paese e sono andati, con il pensiero e l’immaginazio- 
ne, vagando per il mondo, hanno cercato questa situazione per sfuggire a se stessi. 
Ma per l’uomo forte ogni terra é patria: egli é cittadino del mondo e la verita abita 
nel mondo per chiunque abbia voglia di conoscere e di imparare, come avvenne 
per Democrito, Pitagora e Platone (Fam. IX 13, 10-13). 

Tuttavia é sciocco il viaggiatore che si lascia distrarre dalle bellezze o dalle 
amenita del luogo, ma prudente é colui che, proteso direttamente alla meta, attraversa 
molti paesi, non fermandosi pit del necessario (Fam. 17, 14 e XII 3, 19), e rimedia 
al ritardo accelerando il viaggio (Fam. 12, 11; V 13, 2; XIII 2, 6). Talvolta mentre 
alcuni viandanti, avvicinandosi alla meta, accelerano il passo (Fam. XV 1, 3; XIX 
16, 4; XX 8, 22), altri, al contrario, lo rallentano (Fam. XXIII 12, 24), ma la 
maggiore preoccupazione del viaggiatore é trovare ospitalita per la notte (Fam. VIII 
4, 3); al Petrarca invece il viaggiare proprio perché comporta |’astensione dalla 
lettura dei libri permette di meditare “multa” e “grandia” (Fam. I 1, 3). 


4. 2. Una testimonianza delle larghe conoscenze geografiche del Petrarca é la lettera 
a Stefano Colonna, preposito di Saint-Omer, sulla inquietudine di tutto il mondo 
(Fam. XV 7) dove passa in rassegna una buona parte delle regioni dell’ Europa, 
del Mediterraneo e, in particolare, dell’ Italia; ma una ampia e robusta prova della 
vastita delle sue informazioni é il gid menzionato Itinerarium Syriacum, una sorta 
di baedeker, dove consiglia all’amico Mandello l’itinerario per raggiungere la 
Terrasanta. II libello é nettamente diviso in due sezioni: nella prima parte, che 
costituisce il percorso costiero Genova-Napoli, attinge le notizie alla propria 
personale esperienza; nella seconda parte del viaggio, a lui ignoto, le fonti sono 
diverse: |’Eneide virgiliana per la parte di viaggio comune anche ad Enea, Plinio 
per 1’Asia minore, il racconto evangelico per la Palestina e l’Egitto, anche se per 


174 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


quest’ultimo il Petrarca si lascia guidare prevalentemente dalla Farsaglia di 
Lucano.*' Il Poeta costruisce quindi questo testo con una rete cosi fitta di echi 
e di testimonianze classiche e cristiane da sembrare quasi un centone. II passato 
é pertanto appiattito nel presente e la narrazione degli antichi viene percepita, 
comunque, come descrizione di paesaggi reali, mentre il racconto, a sua volta, 
diventa il pretesto per assemblare, come del resto é topico, fini diversi: la salvezza 
dell’anima, le notizie scientifiche e mitologiche, la memoria storica dei luoghi da 
visitare. I] viaggio é, per certi aspetti, metafisico, come una vera e propria guida 
turistica. Gli spazi, a differenza della pratica diffusa di contare gli spazi a giornate 
di navigazione, sono cadenzati da espressioni vaghe, tipiche del navigatore medievale 
non molto esperto, come “non longe”, “ad dexteram”, “inde”, “post hoc”, ecc. 
e le descrizioni di paesaggi urbani si susseguono in continua alternanza a paesaggi 
elegiaci. 

D’altronde nella concezione medievale esistono luoghi per definizione positivi 
(e sono quelli sacri 0 consacrati dai testi divini o da fenomeni miracolosi) come 
Gerusalemme, Roma, Santiago de Compostela, solo per citare i pid noti, che 
diventano meta di pellegrinaggi, e quelli negativi, dove regna il peccato e domina 
la sensualita, come |’isola di Cipro, i cui abitanti sono sensuali e libidinosi a causa 
del calore del sole (/tin. 12, 6) 0 come Avignone, la “nuova Babilonia”, da cui 
bisogna stare lontani. 

Il viaggio quindi é familiare al Petrarca sia per le numerose e continue 
esperienze personali di viator sia per la sua avventura intellettuale e spirituale. 
Spesso nel Canzoniere ricorre la metafora della nave e del viaggio che si effettua 
sia in senso orizzontale (“Passa la nave mia colma d’oblio”, “Movesi il vecchierel 
canuto et biancho”, “Di pensier in pensier, di monte in monte”, “Non d’atra et 
tempestosa onda marina”, “Non da I’hispano Hibero a l’indo Ydaspe”, ecc.) sia 
in senso verticale come ascesa spirituale, desiderio di perfezione mistica che é anche 
Viaggio elitario e parzialmente esoterico, inseguendo le ormai esili tracce del trobar 
clus di pertinenza provenzale: la stessa Laura infatti che ha “belle membra ... bel 
fianco e angelico seno” per la cui bellezza il Petrarca naviga nel mare “periglioso” 
e “tempestoso” dell’amore, lentamente si trasforma con un jeu de mots, insieme 
al sentimento del Poeta, nell’“aura” che, con discreto climax, si fa “serena”, 
“soave”, “celeste” , “sacra” (“Erano i capei d’oro a l’aura sparsi”, “L’aura serena 
che fra verdi fronde”, “L’aura celeste che ’n quel verde lauro”, “L’aura, che ’1 
verde lauro e l’aureo crine” , “L’aura mia sacra al mio stanco riposo”), trasfiguran- 
dosi da simbolo dell’amore terreno a simbolo dell’amore mistico per la Vergine 
(“Vergine bella, che di sol vestita”), tappa importante di quell’ Jtinerarium mentis 


31. A. Paolella, “Petrarca e la letteratura odeporica del medioevo”, Studi e problemi di 
critica testuale, XLIV (1992), 61-85. Oltre all’itinerario suggerito dal Petrarca, sipraticavano 
anche altre rotte: si partiva da Venezia 0 da Ancona per Alessandria d’Egitto da dove si 
risaliva il Nilo fino al Cairo e di la, attraverso il deserto del Sinai, si raggiungeva la Palestina. 


Petrarca: peregrinus an viator? 175 


in Deum vissuto e proposto dai mistici e, in particolare, da Bonaventura da 
Bagnoregio (“Padre del ciel, dopo i perduti giorni”). Ma non dobbiamo trascurare, 
in questo itinerario intellettuale e spirituale, l’importanza di altri elementi come 
la salita fisica ed allegorica sul Monte Ventoso con il fratello Gherardo e, sulla 
vetta, l’incontro con le pagine di Agostino, che sara poi I’interlocutore del Secretum, 
e nemmeno il continuo desiderio di una vita solitaria: se ritorna il concetto del 
viaggio allegorico dell’eremita, che viaggia solo con la mente e con lo spirito, prende 
l’avvio anche, nella dimensione neoplatonica, il significato esoterico del viaggio 
che si sviluppera in particolare neli’ Umanesimo fiorentino (Marsilio Ficino, L. B. 
Alberti, Pico della Mirandola, ecc.) e la metaforica inquietudine dell’ intellettuale 
laico all’assidua e permanente ricerca della verita e del sapere. 

Mentre il pellegrino si muove in viaggio per penitenza o per pratiche devozionali 
€ associa a questa avventura fisica l’avventura di una interpretazione del mondo 
dove la natura va letta ed osservata allegoricamente “sub specie aeternitatis”, secondo 
la piu diffusa topica simbolica, il Petrarca, che tende comunque a ricondurre la 
propria esperienza su un piano di esemplarita e di letterarieta, anche se va da 
pellegrino a Roma nell’anno santo, costruisce la sua immagine come quella di un 
pellegrino mistico all’ambigua ricerca di una donna-madonna su un piano psicologico 
e spirituale al punto che il Torelli ha creduto di poter celebrare una “vittoria del 
misticismo”*. Anche il Secretum é un invito all’itinerarium mentis verso la virtu 
(Secr. I), la narrazione di un viaggio ascetico e di un’esperienza intellettuale e mistica 
verso la perfezione umana, intellettuale e divina. Cosi, citando Virgilio, fa dire 
verso la fine del III libro a S. Agostino: 


quamobrem non secus quam magister frigie classis, neque enim tutius fretus 
navigiis, media nocte consurgens 

Sidera cunta nota tacito labentia celo 
que, dum ad occidentem festinare circumspicis, scito te cum illis impelli nullamque, 
nisiin Eo, quinon movetur quique occasum nescit, superesse fiduciam subsistendi. 


D’altra parte il Petrarca, cittadino del mondo e apolide, ha solo generici 
rimpianti per |’Italia e per Firenze: se i fiorentini, nel 1351, non manifestano un 
reale e concreto interesse a restituirgli i beni paterni confiscati, a differenza di Dante, 
non se ne fa un grande cruccio. Egli presta la sua opera, ovvero la sua capacita 
retorica e il proprio prestigio, al migliore offerente; 1 numerosi benefici ecclesiastici 
in Italia e all’estero gli assicurano un benessere economico e un’agiatezza che “gli 
consentono di indagare da un privilegiato osservatorio sull’esigenze della liberta 
dello spirito e di costruire un’immagine di sé unica e irripetibile”. Egli riesce in 
maniera encomiabile ad “asservirsi al potere e di teorizzare nello stesso tempo la 


32. L. Tonelli, Petrarca (Milano, Corbaccio, 1930), pp. 157-228. 


176 ALFONSO PAOLELLA 


liberta dell’uomo di cultura”.*? In ogni caso egli non é mai organico al potere. 
A differenza di Dante, di Virgilio e di Omero non ha una visione teleologica del 
cammino del quale, soprattutto per Dante, la superbia e la presunzione di Ulisse 
costituiscono il polo negativo. 

In realta la dimensione reale e storica del Petrarca possiede tutte le caratteristiche 
del viator curioso che, tuttavia, a differenza dei suoi contemporanei é consapevole 
di essere il fondatore di un modo nuovo di concepire la realta geografica: operare 
la distinzione tra l’esperienza del vissuto e la conoscenza della documentazione 
indiretta, del “sentito dire”; tuttavia é spinto ad interpretare tale status, per la 
tendenza della cultura medievale a porre ogni esperienza su un piano allegorico 
e a rendere esemplare il proprio vissuto, nella visione mistica del pellegrinaggio. 
A differenza della cultura e degli ideali mercantili, che andavano affermandosi in 
quel periodo, il suo viaggiare non é finalizzato alla ricerca di una mera accumula- 
zione del capitale, ma alla ricerca di onori e di compensi economici che gli 
permettano di trattare i potenti alla pari; mentre il mercante solo nel XV secolo 
comincia ad entrare, ad esempio in Francia, nel Consilium principis e, utilizzando 
il potere politico, ad accrescere il proprio potere economico, Petrarca, vendendo 
la sua lettura del mondo filtrata dalla mediazione dell’ antichita classica, acquisisce, 
in qualche modo in anticipo sui tempi, un invidiabile potere presso i politici, di 
cui egli é fortemente consapevole. 


Istituto Universitario di Magistero 
“S. Orsola Benincasa”, Napoli 


33. F. Gaeta, “Dal comune alla corte rinascimentale” in Letteratura Italiana. 1. Il letterato 
é le istituzioni, a cura di A. Asor Rosa (Torino, Einaudi, 1982), p. 198. 


MARCELLO CICCUTO 


L’odeporica di Ciriaco d’ Ancona 
fra testi e immagini 


Anche in un secolo variamente interessato alla collaborazione fra discipline come 
il Quattrocento, é raro trovare rilievi coerenti e organici circa il valore conoscitivo 
del “viaggio archeologico”, tali cioé da potersi collocare al pari delle circostanze 
addensate attorno alla figura, oggi pressoché mitizzata, di Ciriaco d’Ancona. E’ 
vero che, perduti gli originali, preziosissimi Commentaria nell’incendio della 
biblioteca pesarese (1514),' solo a sparsi frammenti o a indirette testimonianze 
€ consentito attualmente riferirsi, si da doversi destreggiare fra le incertezze della 
quasi totalita dei points de repérage cui il tracciato dell’ odeporica classica dovrebbe 
apprendersi per potersi costituire in esperienza di viaggio.” Eppure, ripeto, sono 
infrequenti quadri tanto fitti di integrazioni fra parola e immagine nell’ insieme di 
una periegesi testuale che, é assodato oramai, venne a fondare 1 presupposti 
culturali dell’itineraria antiquariale quattro-cinquecentesca. Si ricordi altresi che 
proprio da un’epistola ciriacana era scaturito uno dei modelli letterari della “gita 
archeologica”,* superbamente fissato da Felice Feliciano — storico possessore di 
molti testi di Ciriaco* — nel racconto circa la gita sul lago di Garda compiuta da 


1. Cfr., in proposito, la classica ricostruzione di E. W. Bodnar, Cyriacus of Ancona and 
Athens (Bruxelles, 1960), pp. 69-72. 


2. Perun’informazione dettagliata sulla biografia di Ciriaco de’ Pizzicolli e soprattutto circa 
i suoi viaggi orientali (escludendo per adesso la bibliografia relativa alla storia dei suoi 
manoscritti), cfr. almeno i consueti studi Cyriacus of Ancona’s journeys in the Propontis 
and the Northern Aegean, 1444-1445, edited by E. W. Bodnar and Ch. Mitchell 
(Philadelphia, 1976); P. Mac Kendrick, “A Renaissance Odyssey: The Life of Ciriac of 
Ancona”, Classica et Medievalia, xm (1952), 131-145; C. C. Van Essen, “Cyriaque 
d’Ancone en Egypte”, Mededelingen der Koninklijke Nederlandse Akademie van 
Wetenschappen, afd. Letterkunde, xi (1958), 293-306; R. Weiss, Ciriaco d’Ancona in 
Oriente, in Venezia e l’Oriente fra tardo Medioevo e Rinascimento, a cura di A. Pertusi 
(Firenze, 1966), pp. 323-37; J. Colin, Cyriaque d’Ancone. Le voyageur, le marchand, 
l’humaniste (Paris, 1981); nonché la ricerca di P. W. Lehmann, Cyriacus of Ancona’s 
Egyptian Visit and its Reflection in Gentile Bellini and Hieronymous Bosch (Locust Valley, 
1977), per pit aspetti coesivo alla presente ricerca. 


3. Cfr. C. Mitchell, “Archaeology and Romance in Renaissance Italy”, in /talian 
Renaissance Studies, edited by E. F. Jacob (London, 1960), pp. 475-80. 


4. Vale rammentare qui che codici preparati da Feliciano per gli amici della gita gardesana 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


178 Marcello Ciccuto 


Giovanni Marcanova, Andrea Mantegna, Samuele da Tradate e lo stesso Feliciano 
nel settembre 1464:° qui alla concentrazione di alcune testimonianze delle civilta 
mediterranea aveva fatto seguito il riconoscimento di plura antiquitatis vestigia 
disposto entro un breve odeporico lacustre; quella Jubilatio appunto che vale si da 
riflesso altamente stilizzato della reale peregrinatio archeologica,® ma che Ciriaco 
medesimo sin da subito volle agganciata a precise immagini-simbolo, capaci di 
concentrare spazio e tempo in un’unica evidenza, e di accreditare altresi, col 
prestigio latente dell’autopsia, il valore documentale dell’imumagine cui |’ Umanesimo 
stava riconoscendo garanzie rappresentative forse impensate prima dell’eta 
tardogotica. 

Di fatto risulta in primo piano proprio |’importanza della circostanza visiva 
in sede di esperienza viatoria;’ cid che pare confermato, e non contraddetto, dagli 
abbondanti inserti epigrafici per cui va celebre la tradizione ciriacana: segnali essi 
stessi di una ricostruzione archeologica del passato dove l’aspetto simbolico- 
figurativo si sovrappone e si commisura ai valori puramente filologici o testuali.® 
L’immagine, e con essa insomma |’intero campo della produzione figurata, viene 
ad assumere nel Quattrocento parecchie delle funzioni documentali un tempo 
riferibili alla sola scrittura; e gli avvisi pid consistenti sembrano partire giusto dal 
tipo di referto, eminentemente affidato a fattori visuali, che Ciriaco intese 
comporre, e che icontemporanei seppero cogliere nel senso esatto. Non é un caso 
che Cristoforo Buondelmonti, viaggiatore effettivo in Oriente, abbia acquistato un 


contenevano ampie sezioni di scritti di Ciriaco, evidentemente preziosi al punto da doverne 
tramandare la memoria in chiave rigorosamente umanistica: mi riferisco al codice di Treviso 
(Biblioteca Capitolare, I 138); alle due copie residue dell’ originale donato a Mantegna, una 
ancora alla Capitolare veronese e 1’altra in Marciana; e alla celebre Collectio Antiquitatum 
di Giovanni Marcanova, ora all’Estense di Modena, nell’esemplare di dedica a Novello 
Malatesta. 


5. Importanti a riguardo gli appunti di lettura dell’intera vicenda raccolti da G. Romano, 
“Verso la maniera moderna: da Mantegna a Raffaello”, in Storia dell’arte italiana, VI, 1 
(Torino, 1981), pp. 2-26; eda C. R. Chiarlo, “‘Gli fragmenti dilla sancta antiquitate’: studi 
antiquari e produzione delle immagini da Ciriaco d’Ancona a Francesco Colonna, in 
Memoria dell’antico nell’arte italiana, a cura di S. Settis, I: L’uso dei classici (Torino, 
1984), pp. 271 sgg. 


6. Al punto che di recente Myriam Billanovich ha messo in dubbio la realta storica 
dell’episodio: “Intorno alla ‘Iubilatio’ di Felice Feliciano”, /talia medievale e umanistica, 
XXXII (1989), pp. 351-58. 


7. Lo ha documentato ampiamente anche il recente studio di C. Smith, “Cyriacus of 
Ancona’s Seven Drawings of Hagia Sophia”, The Art Bulletin, LXIX, 1 (1987), 16-32. 


8. Si ricordi l’iscrizione pit specificamente “letteraria” recuperata da Ciriaco sul timpano 
settentrionale dell’Hagia Sophia, serbataci dal codice Palatino 1191, secondo la lettura della 
stessa Smith, art. cit., pp. 22-23. 


L’odeporica di Ciriaco d’Ancona 179 


codice di Horapollo’ ritenendolo con ogni probabilita un corrispettivo documentale 
di una scrittura circa luoghi dei quali egli aveva, come é noto, una visione mitica 
e niente affatto archeologica: quei geroglifici sussumevano ogni possibile funzione 
informativa, nell’icona raccolta su strade lontane si condensava ormai I’ intero arco 
dell’esperienza conoscitiva. Cosi Ciriaco intorno al 1435, poco prima della 
partenza per l’Egitto, si “preparO” sugli stessi Hieroglyphica in vista di quanto la 
sua enciclopedia stava per assorbire sul piano delle dotazioni figurate (le tracce di 
questa attivita sono consistenti e interessanti nell’attuale codice Napoletano V E 
5);!° tanto anzi da farci supporre che persino la lettera sull’Egitto — perduta — 
a Filippo Maria Visconti dell’ 1 gennaio 1443 dovesse recar segni di interventi 
grafici 0 iconizzazioni affini a quelle conservate dal codice Canonici misc. 280 della 
Bodleian Library per la lettera a Mariano,'' conformemente ai gusti viscontei per 
i testi illustrati or non é molto ripercorsi in chiave di adeguata sistemazione 
storiografica.'* Fu sull’onda di questa restaurata concezione del documento 
epigrafico a farsi strada del resto il genere della personale registrazione di antichita 
o sigilla historiarum, come voleva Ciriaco;'* né il conseguito, consapevole 
ricambio fra immagine e prassi itineraria manco di insistere su altre fondazioni della 
antica cultura archeologico-antiquaria, se é vero ad esempio che ancora Ciriaco 
poté riflettere precise circostanze fiorentine di personale documentazione sull’effetto 
di rappresentazione grafica della struttura di Hagia Sophia.'* 

A voler intendere quanto le immagini dell’ Anconetano rendano un progetto 
filologico in seno alla tradizione odeporica, basterebbe usarne per un rapido 
confronto con gli album di Jacopo Bellini, pure alle sillogi di Ciriaco talvolta 
avvicinati in forza di un idea di viaggio archeologico nell’immaginario urbano 
dell’antichita.'° Ma dove queste soccorrono ai testi integrandone molte valenze, 
i “viaggi pittorici” belliniani e le sue collezioni monumentali altro non sono che 


9. R. Weiss, art. cit., pp. 324-25. 


10. Cfr. le osservazioni di M. Cortesi- E. V. Maltese, “Ciriaco d’Ancona e il De virtutibus 
pseudoaristotelico,” Studi medievali, XXXIII, 1 (1992), pp. 136-137. 


11. C. Mitchell, “Ex libris Kiriaci Anconitani,” /talia medievale e umanistica, V (1962), 
285. 


12. Specie dagli studi di M. Zaggia, “Appunti sulla cultura letteraria in volgare a Milano 
nell’eta di Filippo Maria Visconti,” Giornale storico della letteratura italiana, CX (1993), 
fasc. 550-551, pp. 161-219, 321-82. 


13. Cosi secondo i documenti prodotti da G. P. Marchi, “Due corrispondenti veronesi di 
| Ciriaco d’Ancona,” Italia medievale e umanistica, XI (1968), 322. 


14. Cfr. C. Smith, art. cit., p. 25. 


15. Gli insiemi e le questioni pertinenti al loro rapporto sono esaminati ora anche da P. 
Fortini Brown, “The Antiquarianism of Jacopo Bellini,” Artibus et Historiae, 26 (1992), 
pp. 65-84. 


180 Marcello Ciccuto 


testimonianze risolutamente pittoriche,'° sostanzialmente alterative e alternative 
rispetto alla registrazione grafica di taglio filologico: in questo coerenti dunque ai 
modelli intemporali delle compilazioni universali illustrate quali la Cronaca 
Colvin,’ 0 se vogliamo ai pit veri album di “disegni d’antichita” quali la Collectio 
Antiquitatum di Marcanova o il taccuino di Marco Zoppo (che soggiacciono pero, 
come detto, alla dipendenza da un testo),'* ma sempre e comunque distanti dalla 
fervida lega documentale ciriacana. In essa, al luogo di partenza testuale — che 
possono essere i Fasti ovidiani per il sito di Filippi o la Naturalis Historia per la 
visita a Cizico'? — sottentra notevole |’apporto informativo in figura, essendosi 
ormai ad esso appreso |’immaginario periegetico: si veda come alla pur rilevante 
completezza del testo di Ditti Cretese consegnato all’Ottoboniano lat. 1586” 
Ciriaco voglia aggregare a incremento di esattezza un’illustrazione dell’ episodio 
del cavallo dinanzi alle mura di Troia (cc. 94v-95r), quasi la scrittura non bastasse 
ai fini del recupero di un documento ’storico’, e l’immagine a sua volta potesse 
allegare la superiore freschezza di una prassi conoscitiva realizzata in situ. 
Insomma, quel che appare da queste brevi tracce i contemporanei colsero nella 
pienezza del suo valore fondante. A Ciriaco si riferiva la capacita di accreditare, 
per verba et per imagines, le condizioni autoptiche riconosciute intime alla 
circostanza del ’viaggio conoscitivo’, meglio se del taglio antiquario-archeologico 
pit: gradito all’estetica umanistica. Ecco il motivo per il quale si mostrarono 
all’occhio esperto dell’ Anconetano i quadri delle Muse e pure un organo a torre 
destinati allo Studiolo di Leonello d’Este,”' nella prospettiva eventuale di una 
registrazione dell’evento che ne fondasse una sorta di consistenza storica nel corso 
di un itinerario che aveva condotto Ciriaco dunque anche nell’ iperartistico contesto 


16. Eadem, p. 70. 


17. Cfr. L. Whitaker, “Maso Finiguerra, Baccio Baldini and ‘The Florentine Picture 
Chronicle’,” in Florentine Drawing at the Time of Lorenzo the Magnificent, Papers from 
a Colloquium held at the Villa Spelman, Florence, 1992, edited by E. Cropper (Bologna, 
1994), p. 187. 


18. Ibidem, pp. 187-88, e L. Armstrong, “Marco Zoppo e il Libro dei Disegni del British 


Museum: riflessioni sulle teste ‘all’antica’,” in Marco Zoppo e il suo tempo, a cura di B. 
Giovannucci Vigi (Bologna, 1993), pp. 79-95. 


19. C. R. Chiarlo, art. cit., pp. 275-76. 


20. Il significato di quest’opera a fronte delle competenze storiche dell’eta post-classica 
& chiarito ad esempio da W. Lapini, “L’archetipo dell’Ephemeris di Ditti-Settimio”, Atti 
e Memorie dell’Accademia La Colombaria di Firenze, LVM (1992), 43-104, a seguito di 
quanto accertato a suo tempo da S. Timpanaro, “Sulla composizione e la tecnica narrativa 
dell’Ephemeris di Ditti-Settimio”, in Filologia e forme letterarie. Studi offerti a Francesco 
Della Corte (Urbino, 1987), It, 169-215. 


21. C. R. Chiarlo, art. cit., pp. 279-80. 


L’odeporica di Ciriaco d’Ancona 181 


estense.” E a voler estendere la portata della circostanza quaglierebbe senz’ altro 
idea per cui l’intera attivita ciriacana veniva a funzionare al servizio di un 
complesso travelogue ampliato a molti linguaggi e di essi comprensivo, non ultimo 
certo quello figurato. Si veda a proposito come, ad esempio, lo stesso Giuliano 
da Sangallo ebbe a partire, per alcuni importanti fogli del codice Vaticano 
Barberiniano lat. 4424 (raffiguranti il Partenone, |’ Arco el’ Acquedotto di Adriano, 
la Torre dei Venti, i Monumenti di Lisicrate, Trasillo e Filopappo), proprio dai 
documenti figurati di Ciriaco quali registrazioni autoptiche e realistiche, onde 
procedere alla ricostruzione di modelli figurativi in chiave di condensati visuali 
dell’antico.”* Tanto pit che la dominanza del mezzo iconico necessita anche qui, 
come in Ciriaco, del sostegno coesivo di affini linguaggi, non foss’altro che in 
ragione del fatto per cui Sangallo, soltanto per la parte del suo libro ricavata dai 
Commentaria, chiese ad altri“ di aggiungere le epigrafi, insomma la scrittura, 
allo scopo evidente di rendere cosi completa tanto l’informazione quanto la 
situazione, diciamo, ermeneutica dell’insieme. Del resto, a conferma dell’odeporico 
reso anche in carte con la dovuta integrita, viene il dettaglio dell’inverosimile 
aggiunta sangalliana di alcune metope meridionali del Partenone alla zona dell’attico 
propriamente detto, conformemente in realta e ancora a un’indicazione 
proveniente da quello stesso esemplare di cose ciriacane che, secondo Bodnar, 
avrebbe usato pure il compilatore del codice Parmense 1191 come é noto preparato 
per un corredo illustrato poi non eseguito.*° Se percid si dara anche un caso di 
dominanza della scrittura sulla figura in un codice di Ciriaco quale |’ Hamilton 254, 
fol. 87r (la Torre dei Venti ad Atene),”’ sara soprattutto per via di un’intrinseca 


22. Sulla complessita dell’evento ha scritto convenientemente S. Settis, “Artisti e 
committenti tra Quattro e Cinquecento,” in Storia d’Italia Einaudi. Annali, Iv, Intellettuali 
e potere, (Torino, 1981), pp. 708-12. 


23. Cfr. B. L. Browne D. E. E. Kleiner, “Giuliano da Sangallo’s Drawings after Ciriaco 
d’Ancona: Transformations of Greek and Roman Antiquities in Athens,” Journal of the 
Society of Architectural Historians, XL, 4 (1983), 321-35. 


24. Il figlio Francesco (?). Questi senz’altro per B. Degenhart, “Dante, Leonardo and 
Sangallo,” Rémisches Jahrbuch fiir Kunstgeschichte, vil (1955), 202-204. 


25. B. L. Browne D. E. E. Kleiner, art. cit., pp. 325 sgg. 


26. E. W. Bodnar, op. cit., pp. 114-17. Detto esemplare potrebbe identificarsi con parte 
dei materiali ciriacani raccolti da Bartolomeo Fonzio, a ricordo anche del fatto che il 
fonziano Codex Ashmolensis (Oxford, Bodleian Library, ms. lat. misc. d. 85) costituisce 
una delle fonti decisive alla conoscenza del viaggio egiziano dell’umanista. Cfr. F. Saxl, 
“The Classical Inscriptions in Renaissance Art and Politics,” The Journal of the Warburg 
and Courtauld Institutes, tv (1940-1941), 19-46. 


27. Qui il mezzo testuale assume quella funzione costruttivo-ordinativa che le esilissime 
coordinate grafiche non si erano assunte nella circostanza: cfr. ancora Brown-Kleiner, art. 
eH, p. 329. 


182 Marcello Ciccuto 


debolezza — ma appunto palpabile questa sola volta — della resa grafica, pronta 
tuttavia a riconquistare a pieno i personali diritti quando di nuovo Sangallo adegua 
ai disegni ciriacani sul Monumento di Filopappo e Torre dei Venti la propria 
osservazione diretta, effettuata nel corso dei suoi viaggi a Napoli e in Provenza,”* 
trattandosi dunque di una continuita fra i mezzi in gioco cosi latente quanto 
definitivamente riconosciuta.”’ 

Alla luce di tali interpretazioni contemporanee del travelogue ciriacano non 
parra azzardato individuare nel suo esempio |’ideale fusione del modello di taccuino 
di viaggio artistico-architettonico, fondato sulla trascrizione grafica delle personali 
esperienze visive, e del taccuino di viaggio umanistico-antiquario destinato a 
raccogliere le testimonianze letterarie degne di attenzione: a impersonare forse 
l’ideale artistico dell’ Umanesimo tratteggiato nei termini pit convenienti a questi 
dall’ Alberti del De re aedificatoria (Ix, X).* La stessa lettera di Leonardo Bruni 
a Ciriaco, cosi attenta al rapporto immobilita: viaggio, ci conferma che grazie alla 
diffrazione cartacea dei Commentaria il viaggio umanistico si é identificato al 
concetto di conoscenza visiva e ispessimento conseguente della dimensione 
culturale; proprio come é dato raccogliere nel corpo della Jubilatio di Feliciano, 
da cui son partiti questi nostri appunti, visto anche e specialmente il valore di quella 
come affermazione di una conquista definitivamente storicizzata. Quando Marin 
Sanudo il Giovane venne a determinare la validita documentale del suo viaggio di 
ispezione sulla Terraferma veneta (1483), richiamd giusto quella chiesa della 
Vergine sulle rive gardesane su cui sfumava il testo di Feliciano.*’ Il cerchio si 
chiude: Ciriaco figura accreditato nel giro di una cultura che ha assunto le 
testimonianze visive della sua odeporica come dati storici, cid che doveva essere 
lo scopo pit esatto cui mirava la sua stessa costruzione per frammenti di una imago 
mundi archaeologica. 


Universita degli Studi, Pisa 


28. Ibidem, p. 332. 


29. Del resto, il fatto medesimo che Sangallo accordasse scarsa importanza alle iscrizioni 
vale a confermare per converso quanto rilievo intendesse riferire allo spessore documentale 
della grafica ciriacana. E cfr. dunque ancora Brown-Kleiner, art. cit., p. 333. 


30. Giusta l’edizione L. B. Alberti, L’architettura (De re aedificatoria), a cura di G. 
Orlandi (Milano, 1966), 11, 852-63. 


31. L’edizione consultata reca il titolo Jtinerario di Marin Sanuio per la terraferma 
veneziana nell’anno MCCCCLXXXIII (Padova, 1847), p. 88. 


FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia: 
esperienze di viaggio tra ’400 e *500: 


Tra la fine del XV secolo ed il primo Cinquecento I’assunzione di un orizzonte 
geografico di tipo moderno abbatte gli assetti topografici caratteristici del Medioevo. 
Le monarchie europee a base mercantile-plutocratica coordinano un progetto globale 
di espansione territoriale conducendo a piena maturazione la loro supremazia 
politica ed economica su di un’area vastissima. Un’area che non mi sembra 
improprio definire planetaria, poiché appunto ampliata nel giro di pochi anni 
secondo una dilatazione degli spazi geografici che non ha eguali nella storia della 
civilta occidentale. 


I. “... in questo luogo albergai” 


Le aperture delle nuove vie marittime consentono grandi rivoluzioni commerciali, 
ma impongono anche |’esigenza di una ridefinizione della geografia letteraria. Gli 
itinera del Rinascimento mutano la concezione dello spazio geografico e la sua 
visualizzazione*. I cambiamenti di struttura e di contenuto che essi attuano rispetto 
ai modelli geografici preesistenti si comprendono adeguatamente solo a partire dalla 
prospettiva del viaggio letterario, perlopit inteso come inventio affabulatoria basata 
sull’esotismo meraviglioso o favolistico, e dislocato lungo il consueto tragitto per 
mirabilia poli. Le scoperte geografiche del Rinascimento riducono drasticamente 


1. Esprimo la mia riconoscenza a Theodore J. Cachey, Jr. per i preziosi consigli e suggerimenti 
che mi ha cortesemente fornito. La sua attiva collaborazione ha reso possibile questo contributo. 


2. Cfr. G. R. Cardona, “I viaggi e le scoperte”, Letteratura italiana, V. Le Questioni, ed. 
A. Asor Rosa (Torino: Einaudi, 1986), pp. 687-716, cui si rinvia per il motivo dello 
“sguardo antropologico”. M. Milanesi, Tolomeo sostituito. Studi di storia delle conoscenze 
geografiche nel XVI secolo (Milano: Unicopli, 1984). M. Zancan, “Venezia e il Veneto”, 
Letteratura italiana. Storia e geografia, IW/\. L’eta moderna, ed. A. Asor Rosa (Torino: 
Einaudi, 1988), pp. 619-741, in part. pp. 623-57 (“Spazio geografico e spazio mentale. Le 
relazioni di viaggio”). E’ ancora utile L. Olschki, Storia letteraria delle scoperte geografi- 
che. Studi e ricerche (Firenze: Olschki, 1937). In part. per l’America cfr. A. Gerbi, La 
natura delle Indie Nove. Da Cristoforo Colombo a Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo (Mila- 
no-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1975); e il classico (recentemente ristampato) R. Romeo, Le scoperte 
americane nella coscienza italiana del Cinquecento (Roma-Bari: Laterza, 1989). 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


184 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


la validita e l’efficacia—in termini di ricezione—di questo modello di geografia 
letteraria, conducendo ad un precoce azzeramento delle connotazioni favolistiche 
e mitografiche che ne rappresentavano forse i tratti pid caratterizzanti. La 
migrazione verso territori lontani viene pertanto descritta tramite |’ausilio di 
procedure non direttamente riconducibili entro l’orizzonte retorico del viaggio 
“testuale” e della geografia letteraria. I paesi favoleggiati in tanti romans esotico-- 
avventurosi del Medioevo latino e volgare, verso 1 quali peraltro si indirizzavano 
gia le mire espansionistiche e gli interessi economici degli Europei, non appartengo- 
no piu alle mitologie collettive. Tra XV e XVI secolo, precise testimonianze 
riescono ad oggettivare con misura critica la quasi fisica impressione dei territori 
visitati e, soprattutto, frequentati. Il tema del viaggio, gia ampiamente elaborato 
nei canali della scrittura dalla civilta mercantile-comunale fra Due e Trecento, viene 
sottratto alla materia letteraria d’evasione e diventa uno strumento di conoscenza 
empirica della realta. L’esplorazione dei “paesi novamente retrovati”, tramite 
appunto l’esperienza diretta del viaggiatore che vede con i suoi propri occhi cid 
che racconta, garantisce al testimone oculare ogni autorita interpretativa e diegetica. 

Pur se legato all’assunzione di un ordinamento concettuale di stampo espressa- 
mente antidogmatico e scientifico, almeno nelle dichiarate intenzioni degli autori, 
il racconto di viaggio si scandisce secondo una distribuzione di timbri espositivi 
che non rinunciano a motivi tendenzialmente narrativi. Eineffetti, a ben guardare, 
il libro di viaggio del Rinascimento si dimostra ancora parzialmente permeabile 
“all’influenza di certi motivi letterari cavallereschi”*, ben evidente nella forte 
tensione simbolica che individua nell’esploratore un nuovo cavaliere errante, la cui 
quéte avventurosa in terre ignote e mai descritte prima, popolate da genti scono- 
sciute e aliene rispetto ai parametri mentali degli uomini del tempo, inaugura un 
nuovo ciclo mitico in cui il progetto antropologico della conoscenza dell’altro 
subentra storicamente (e letterariamente) alla modulata crescita per entrelacement 
delle vicissitudini dell’eroe. Alle spalle del libro di viaggio va dunque riconosciuta 
la consolidata prassi della letteratura: ma la sua idea di letteratura apre gli spazi 
della modernita. In essa si distinguono per ragioni di contenuto e di completezza 
notazioni d’utilita economico-sociale, cataloghi di toponimi che segnalano luoghi 
importanti per lo scambio commerciale, osservazioni di primo piano su questioni 
inerenti alle strutture politico-civili dei paesi visitati, appunti, descrizioni, quantifi- 
cazioni, resoconti riprodotti non senza fondamentali ragioni epistemologiche prima 
ancora che informative. 

Non stupisce pertanto rilevare che il libro di viaggio é riconoscibile con 
sicurezza tra i prodotti pit diffusi del nuovo mercato editoriale del Cinquecento. 


3. T. J. Cachey Jr., “Le Isole Fortunate nella storiografia di scoperta del Cinquecento”, 
Le Isole Fortunate. Appunti di storia letteraria italiana (Roma: L’“Erma” di Bretschneider, 
1995), p. 184. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 185 


Anzi, gia nella seconda meta del XV secolo le pubblicazioni di récits de voyage 
sono diffusissime ed abbracciano, per il loro carattere divulgativo pitt che compilati- 
vo, ampi strati di lettori, in particolare, com’é ovvio, “borghesi”, vale a dire 
mercanti viaggiatori epigoni di Marco Polo. Tuttavia va precisato che anche la 
classe intellettuale degli umanisti contribuisce ad un decisivo rinnovamento della 
geografia e della sua utilizzazione letteraria. 

Proprio ad un grande umanista, Poggio Bracciolini, si deve infatti la cognizione 
storiografica e testuale del primo viaggiatore moderno dopo il medievale Marco 
Polo. Niccold de’ Conti (1395 ca.-1469)*, veneto (di Chioggia) e mercante come 
Polo, parte giovanissimo per tornare solo dopo molti anni. Nel 1414 é gia a 
Damasco e da qui parte per |’Estremo Oriente (Asia meridionale e insulare) ove 
si tratterra per ben venticinque anni. Niccold é nel Deccan, a Ceylon, a Sumatra, 
in Cina, a Giava, a Malacca; naviga sul Tigri e sull’Eufrate sino a Bassora, poi 
raggiunge |’Oceano Indiano. Parla correntemente il persiano, si converte per un 
certo periodo all’islamismo e frequenta etnie fino ad allora sconosciute agli Europei, 
come gli Accinesi di Sumatra settentrionale e i Batacchi delle Isole Andamane. 
Diviene profondo conoscitore dell’ Oriente, avviando a soluzioni mature il processo 
di conquista dello spazio ignoto iniziato da Marco Polo. Lo spagnolo Pedro Tafur 
(1410 ca.- 1484), ufficiale dell’esercito di Luis Gonz4les de Guzman, nelle 
Andanzas e viajes por diversas partes del mundo (1439) ricorda in Niccolo de’ 
Conti una preziosa ed esperta guéa durante le sue peregrinazioni nell’ Asia minore. 
Del resto lo scrupolo di completezza informativa di Niccol6 non lascia adito ad 
equivoci: quando non riesce a raggiungere talune localita, egli riferisce su di esse 
notizie avute da altri osservatori e raccolte presso gli autoctoni nelle zone limitrofe. 
A differenza dell’autore del Divisament dou monde, che opera ancora all’interno 
di una mentalita schiettamente medievale, ben avvertibile nell’impianto complessivo 
del libro poliano in quella insistita velleita da genere enciclopedico oltre che in una 
allocutio che rammenta le procedure stereotipate della letteratura didattico-morale, 
Niccol6 de’ Conti pare gia pronto per attivare invece una narrazione che definirei 
“autodiegetica”, vale a dire coscientemente sganciata, anche sul piano dell’enuncia- 
zione, dalla necessita del ricorso alle dichiarazioni di pretesa veridicita, dalle 
esigenze di autenticazione. Tutta l’informazione mediata da Niccold é riferibile 
ad una modalita di scrittura biografico-realistica, e in quanto tale corresponsabile 
nell’ambizione ad un ruolo di mero servizio documentaristico, facendola spiccare 
pertanto non come materia di un trattato scolastico, ma come materia di un libro 
narrativo. Detto in drastica sintesi, Polo si preoccupa di persuadere il lettore alla 


4. Cfr. F. Surdich, “Conti, Niccold de’”, Dizionario biografico degli italiani, vol. XXVIII 
(Roma: Istituto dell’Enciclopedia italiana, 1983), pp. 457-60. R. Cusmai Belardinelli, 
“Discorso sopra il viaggio di Niccold Di Conti veneziano” , Accademie e biblioteche d'Italia, 
LIII (1985), pp. 155-70. 


186 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


verisimiglianza del suo resoconto, mentre Niccolo espone serenamente la narrazione 
delle sue esperienze senza lasciar trapelare il timore di essere ritenuto non credibile. 

Assecondando la propria funzione di intellettuale organico ad un progetto 
culturale in cui si perseguono finalita e obiettivi ordinati in senso modernista (cioé 
antimedievale), Poggio Bracciolini dedica ai viaggi di Niccold de’ Conti il libro 
IV (intitolato India recognita) del De varietate fortune, composto nel 1447 e 
dedicato a Nicolo V, edito a Cremona da Ulrich Scinzenzeler il 5 febbraio 1492. 
Da questa edizione cremonese venne in seguito ricavata la traduzione portoghese, 
dovuta a Valentin Fernandez, pubblicata a Lisbona nel 1502, che servi a sua volta 
per la prima edizione in lingua italiana approntata nel 1554 da Giovan Battista 
Ramusio. _ Il récit di Niccol6 invita ad aprirsi progressivamente ad orizzonti 
geografici (ed etnologici) assai pit larghi di quelli dislocati nella cosmologia 
medievale e scholastica. Egli fugge gli eccessi del teologismo scientifico in nome 
di un ideale di misurata acquisizione empirica che sembra preludere all’epoca 
colombiana e a quella nuova immagine del Mondo e della Natura che di li a poco 
si manifestera nella pienezza dei suoi esiti epistemici. Sullo sfondo del récit di 
Niccolo si intravede una stratificazione letteraria non estranea alla retorica dell’ eso- 
tismo°’, ma assorbita nella mobilita dell’occhio vedente in quanto punto di forza 
dell’ osservatore, e pertanto non riusata sul registro diegetico delle opzioni affabula- 
torie. Per di piu, ad accrescere il valore emblematico della testimonianza contiana, 
va riconosciuta con esattezza la credenziale della prospettiva antropologica—di 
Osservazione se non ancora di frequentazione—impostata secondo dimensioni tali 
da assimilare informazioni relative non solo alla societa ed al commercio, ma estese 
all’abbigliamento, ai costumi sessuali, ai nuclei familiari, all’alimentazione, 
all’igiene e alla cosmesi. 

Una volta collocato nel concreto paradigma intellettuale, il messaggio geogra- 
fico imprime un profondo rinnovamento all’interno delle strutture funzionali e 
operative della letteratura legata all’immaginario, che si vede costretta a rinunciare 
al formulario ricorsivo dei /oci esotico-fabulosi in favore di un progetto topografico 
concorde e solidale all’organismo della Natura. Fra otium e negotium, il non ben 
definito paese di Angelica e Galafrone (Orlando Innamorato II, m, 29; Orlando 
Furioso VIII 43), patria dell’onesto Natan (Decameron X, 3) ricordata dal Solino 
ubertiano (Dittamondo1, 9), & ora ricondotto in questa lezione di scienza geografica 
riscattata dalle fantasticherie letterarie e, secondo il modulo di sobrieta stilistica 
della sermocinatio cesariana (De bello gallico 1, 1), riofferto al pubblico in termini 
di richiamo al principio di realta: 


5. Anzi, ad una radente lettura comparativa, non sara senza importanza notare che il binomio 
duecentesco Polo-Rustichello, rispettivamente auctor e scriptor del Divisament-Milione, 
trova un suo preciso corrispondente quattrocentesco in quello di Niccold-Poggio, se non 
altro nella qualifica di editor del cancelliere fiorentino. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 187 


L’India tutta é divisa in tre parti: la prima si distende dalla Persia sino al fiume 
Indo; la seconda da questo fiume sino al Ganges; la terza é quella che é oltre al 
detto fiume, e questa é la migliore, la pit ricca e pil civile, perché nel vivere, 
governo e costumi sono simili a noi altri. ... Sono mercatanti, e i pid di loro sono 
ricchi quanto si possa dire, perché se ne trovaranno molti, che un solo sara atto 
a caricar del suo proprio 40 navi di mercanzia, di tal valuta che l’una di queste 
sara stimata 50 mila ducati. ... Non portano barba, ancora che abbino i capelli 
lunghi, distesi sopra le spalle; usano i barbieri come facciamo noi altri, e quando 
vanno in guerra, legano li capelli dietro al collo con una cordella di seta. ... L’uso 
del vestire é vario, secondo la diversita delle regioni e de’ luoghi. Commune- 
mente non hanno lana, ma lino, gottone e seta in gran copia, de’ quali ne fanno 
vestimenti, cosi gli uomini come le donne. Portano intorno alle parti vergognose 
alcune traverse di lino, longhe sino alle ginocchia; portano una veste sola, o di 
tela o di seta, sopra la traversa, gli uomini sin al ginocchio, le donne sin al 
calcagno .... Le donne pubbliche, in ciascun luogo che l’uomo le vuole, le trova 
immediate, perché sono sparse per tutta la terra e hanno case proprie, nelle quali 
tengono olii, unguenti, profumi e altre cose odorifere; e con molte lusinghe e 
parole accarezzano mirabilmente gli uomini, ciascuno secondo |’eta loro, e sono 
molto accorte e gran maestre a provocar gli uomini ai lor diletti: e di qui nasce 
che tra gl’Indiani non si sa cid che sia quel vizio abominevole.® 


L’occhio vedente di Niccolé, forse sul piano storiografico primo autentico 
segnale dello sguardo antropologico’, conduce |’osservazione verso punte estreme 
di obiettivita. Nel brano che ho riportato é dato cogliere infatti gia molti dei motivi 
di fondo che si ritroveranno nelle relazioni di viaggio successive. In primo luogo, 
accanto al ricoscimento dell’alterita radicale di etnie lontanissime dall’ Europa e 
dal bacino del Mediterraneo, v’é l’attenzione, a mio avviso straordinariamente 
rilevante, per le affinita e le analogie tra Occidente ed Oriente (“sono simili a noi”; 
“come facciamo noi”), sigillo esclusivo di una volonta che punta anche ad affer- 
mare una uguaglianza equanime tra civilta paritetiche seppure fortemente eteroge- 
nee. In secondo luogo si coglie nel resoconto di Niccold una assecondata vocazione 
per le condizioni socio-economiche delle regioni visitate (“sono ricchi quanto si 


6. Cfr. il Viaggio di Nicolo di Conti veneziano, scritto per messer Poggio fiorentino. 
Narrazione di Nicolo di Conti della vita e costumi degli uomini dell’India e di tutto il paese 
d’Oriente, fatta a richiesta di molte persone che lo interrogavano, pubblicato in G. B. 
Ramusio, Navigazioni e viaggi, ed. M. Milanesi (Torino: Einaudi, 1978-1988), II (1979), 
808-809. Preciso che gottone é settentrionalismo per “cotone”, mentre il vizio abominevole 
é la sodomia. 


7. Per la pregnanza metodologica e per affinita di disamina rammento: M. De Certeau, 
“Ethnographie. L’oralité ou l’espace de l’autre: Léry”, L’Ecriture de l’histoire (Paris: 
Gallimard, 1978), pp. 215-248. F. Affergan, Exotisme et alterité. Essai sur les fondements 
d’une critique de l’anthropologie (Paris: P.U.F., 1987). F. Hartog, Le moroir d’Hérodote. 
Essai sur la répresentation de l’autre (Paris: Gallimard, 1980). 


188 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


possa dire”), entro un quadro d’insieme in cui é dato lecitamente cogliere malcelate 
approvazioni per un sistema sociale che sembra nella maggioranza dei casi 
preferibile a quello della Cristianita europea. In terzo luogo la puntuale distinzione 
dei caratteri delle diverse aree territoriali (“secondo la diversita delle regioni e de’ 
luoghi”), che si sviluppa sul registro argomentativo nella attribuzione a ciascuna 
di essa delle proprie peculiarita climatiche, ambientali, sociali, in netto e palese 
contrasto col principio della reductio ad unum tipico della cultura cosmologica 
d’estrazione scolastico- enciclopedica e ancora saldamente attestato all’interno della 
civilta tardomedievale. Infine, /ast but not least, la fortissima tensione della 
suggestione erotica (“accarezzano mirabilmente gli uomini”; “sono molto accorte 
e gran maestre a provocar gli uomini a lor diletti”), la quale si esplica nella 
evidente opportunita di facili esperienze accessibili a chiunque, secondo una prassi 
di vita che pare capovolgere l’irreggimentata struttura repressiva, inibitoria e 
proibitiva della morale religiosa europea. 

Sono, questi, motivi e suggestioni che incontreremo di frequente durante la 
pur rapida disamina di altre testimonianze. II tratto peculiare delle relazioni e 
narrazioni di viaggio é una tendenza modernista che mette in opera una descrizione, 
vale a dire una circostanza in cui un agente cognitivo, un osservatore, veicola un 
mondo diverso, altro dallo schema geo-etnografico della tradizione letteraria. La 
descrizione del mundus novus implica la rimozione dell’espace tradizionale. Nessun 
modello teorico offerto dalla riflessione tardomedievale e preumanistica é in grado 
di aderire rigorosamente all’ éclosion delle nuove tensioni informative: nel circuito 
reiterato delle codificazioni non c’é “spazio” per I’eplicitazione semplicemente 
disordinata dell’occhio vedente, nonostante le sue proprieta di coerenza con 
lindagine della realta. 

Con tratti pit antropologici, secondo lo stile esotico-avventuroso, proprio il 
rapporto con lo spazio straniero come servitium intellettuale organico alla prassi 
operativa nel mondo, connota nel veneziano Giosafat Barbaro (1413-1494) la 
metamorfosi definitiva delle prove geografiche gia consolidate dai viaggiatori 
precedenti. Anch’egli dedito alla mercatura, Barbaro® sancisce con la propria 
biografia una concezione tipicamente umanistica dell’ingenium, aperto come si 
dimostra a forgiare un parametro didattico adeguato alle circostanze. Con la sua 
esperienza di viaggio, egli rappresenta |’archetipo di un bagaglio ricchissimo di 
esperienze assorbite in loco, segnato da un desiderio conoscitivo oltre i limiti della 
tradizionale erudizione scolastica. Niccolo de’ Conti riproduce puntualmente nella 
scrittura la realta che osserva, mentre Barbaro partecipa di quella realta: questi 
oltrepassa il confine visuale dell’osservazione per divenire parte integrante di un 
mondo originariamente a lui estraneo. 

Nel 1436 Giosafat @ alla Tana, emporio veneto sul Mar d’Azov. Resta ben 


8. R. Almagia, “Barbaro, Giosafat”, Dizionario biografico, cit., VI (1964), 106-109. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 189 


sedici anni in Europa Nord-orientale percorrendo la Crimea e tutta la regione 
intorno al Mar Nero: soggiorna a Mosca, a Costantinopoli e a Trebisonda. Passa 
il Caucaso spingendosi sino a Tiflis ed Astrachan. Ha lunghe frequentazioni con 
etnie semisconosciute: Tatari, Alani, Cumani. Tra il 1450 e 11°51 torna a Venezia, 
ma gia nel 1463 documenti d’archivio lo dicono “ufficiale” per conto della 
Repubblica in Dalmazia e in Albania. Nel settembre del 1472 il neoeletto doge 
Nicold Tron lo nomina ambasciatore della Serenissima presso lo scia di Persia 
Uzu’n Hasan, col delicatissimo incarico di riuscire ad attrarre il restaurato impero 
entro lo scacchiere diplomatico delle alleanze veneziane. E il grande viaggio di 
Giosafat. Da Rodi giunge a Famagosta e di qui prosegue per |’ Asia minore; visita 
Korghos, Tarso e Adana, varca il Seyhun e il Tigri, attraversa il Kurdistan fino 
a Tabriz, residenza dello scia. Visita citta del tutto sconosciute ai geografi 
tolemaici d’Europa come Sultanieh, Sciraz, Isfahan (dove incontra il collega 
Ambrogio Contarini), Laz, Kum, Hormuz, Erzingian. Erudito di prima mano su 
questioni d’antiquaria, @ il primo ad indicare all’attenzione degli archeologi europei 
le grandiose rovine di Persepoli: e nasce il topos del viaggio geografico come 
itinerario a rebours nella storia. 

Nel Viaggio di Giosafat Barbaro (non senza fluttuazioni e squilibri) la 
conoscenza del luogo geografico @ un processo che si costruisce nel segno del sito 
etnico e sociale. Esso viene compiuto tramite una partecipazione sperimentale 
dell’occhio vedente e sviluppato grazie al maturo confronto del “vivere insieme” 
(“in questo luogo albergai”), ben lontano dalla quasi-feticistica e monastica 
solitudine dello studioso medievale (per fare un solo esempio illustre, si pensi 
all’aspirazione petrarchesca di vita solitaria). Un tale processo conoscitivo é 
efficacemente espresso in questo brano del racconto di viaggio di Barbaro: 


Giugnemmo poi alla radice di un monte, il qual é sopra un altro monte, e ha una 
citta chiamata Merdin, alla quale non si pud andar se non per una scala fatta a 
mano, i gradi della quale sono di pietra viva, di passi quattro l’uno con le sue 
bande, e dura per un miglio; al capo di questa scala é una porta, e poi la strada 
che va nella terra. Il monte d’ognintorno cola acqua dolcissima, e per tutta la 
terra sono fontane assai. E nella terra é un altro monte, il quale quasi tutto 
intorno € una rocca alta da passi cinquanta in suso, nell’ascender del quale si 
trova una scala simile alla sopradetta. Non ha questa terra altre mura che quelle 
delle case; é lunga un terzo di un miglio; ha da fuochi 300 dentro, e in essi 
popolo assai. Fa lavori di seta e gottoni assaissimi, ed é similmente del signore 
Assambei. Sogliono dire i Turchi e i Mori che tanto é alta che coloro li quali 
vi abitano non veggono mai volare uccelli sopra di sé. In questo luogo albergai 
in un ospitale il quale fu fatto per Ziangirbei, fratello del signore Assambei, e 
dove tutti quelli che vi vanno hanno da mangiare; e se sono persone che paiano 
da qualche conto, gli vengono messi sotto ai piedi tapeti da pit: di ducati cento 


190 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


l’uno.? 


Attraverso una minuziosa descrizione realistica, che contrasta quasi con certe 
connotazioni da favola immaginaria del luogo descritto, Barbaro media una 
conoscenza che egli ha acquisito per diretto contatto con quella regione impervia 
e disagevole. Ormai sottratto all’affabulazione dell’esotismo letterario, lo scenario 
nel contempo favoloso e reale di due monti sovrapposti uno sull’altro é lo spazio 
in cui abita un popolo assai civile'’, tanto abile nell’attivita manifatturiera quanto 
ospitale (“tutti quelli che vi vanno hanno da mangiare”). 

L’orgoglio della conoscenza empirica sposta la prospettiva dal paradisus 
claustralis al paradisus australis, dalla solitudine dell’occhio leggente alla partecipa- 
zione al mondo dell’ occhio vedente. [1 vis-a-vis del narrante coll’ oggetto peculiare 
della sua disamina, col luogo, non puo che consistere nella riproduzione del luogo 
nella parola, postulando nel contempo una esclusivista aspirazione di verita della 
scrittura. Lo spazio geografico nella scrittura, dunque, da mero deposito letterario 
assume la fisionomia saldamente affermata di ricognizione coerente ed omogenea 
su un’area specifica e circoscritta del mondo fondata sull’assunto dell’id quod video. 
D’ora in poi l’index locorum'' non potra piu riferirsi ai loci, ma solo ed esclusiva- 
mente ai /oca. II paesaggio noto che offre la geografia letteraria, fondato sullo 
stereotipo del locus amoenus, scompare di fronte all’estensione concreta della 
Natura. La funzione evocatrice dell’ ordine topico-estetico non basta pita garantire 
un repertorio dall’ampia disponibilita di immagini da riutilizzare retoricamente. 
Il rapporto pit immediato e coinvolgente con la materia “ecologica” che le relazioni 
€ narrazioni di viaggio sperimentano ed amplificano, offre all’immaginario uno 
scenario eccezionalmente dissimigliante da quello noto, che muta pagina dopo 


9. Cito da Di messer losafa Barbaro, gentiluomo veneziano, il viaggio della Tana e nella 
Persia, incluso in G. B. Ramusio, Navigazioni e viaggi cit., III (1980), pp. 485-574: p. 
528 (“Della citta di Merdin, e mirabil sito e altezza di quella”). 


10. Per un esauriente quadro storico-sociale cfr. H. Islamoglu-Inan, “Les paysans, le marché 
et l’Etat en Anatolie au XVI° siécle”, Annales. Economies Sociétés Civilisations, XLII 
(1980), 1025-1043. 


11. Nella sua Lezione di Geografia Charles Fourier (1772-1837), filosofo ed economista, 
mette adeguatamente in evidenza la stretta correlazione che sussiste tra il carattere allegorico 
del toponimo e l’acquisizione geografica: “I nomi allegorici si applicheranno come sistema 
generale a tutta la storia naturale”. Nella scrittura di Fourier, che giustamente Roland 
Barthes ha definito d’excés, itoponimi sono infatti “lezioni pittoresche applicate a montagne 
e capi, laghi e paludi, fiumi e sorgenti, porti e scogli, arcipelaghi e vulcani”. Essi inoltre 
esprimono antropologicamente le “relazioni collettive” con lo “spazio”, poiché stabiliscono 
“legami” tra l’osservatore e “quelli che ne abitano i dintorni”: - Le citazioni sono da C. 
Fourier, Lezione di Geografia, trad. it., ed. M. Quaini (Genova-Ivrea: Herodote Edizioni, 
1982), pp. 80-81. IlrinvioéaR. Barthes, Sade, Fourier, Loyola. La scrittura come eccesso, 
trad. it. (Torino: Einaudi, 1971). Sul tema cfr. G. De Matteis, La geografia come metafora 
(Milano: Feltrinelli, 1985). 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 191 


pagina (cioé da luogo a luogo) e che nel processo mentale non pu non ridursi in 
caratterizzazione iconica, talvolta metaforica. 


Il. “Homo viator” 


Alle nuove acquisizioni geografiche fa seguito precocemente una graduale manipola- 
zione ermeneutica dello spazio naturale. Essa avviene mediante una reiterata 
estrapolazione allegorica che assume una piu forte suggestione evocativa qualora 
la si pensi assimilabile alla sofisticata intellettualizzazione del mundus in quanto 
visualizzazione spaziale del cosmo-theatron sottoposto a decodifica’. Si tratta 
della formulazione di un’idea filosofica asserita con reiterata insistenza dalla piu 
accreditata speculazione teoretica del Rinascimento, la quale non manchera di 
imprimersi, conservando intatta la sua cifra induttiva, sul complesso sostrato 
simbolico che sottende all’esperienza esistenziale del viaggio. La conoscenza che 
deriva dal viaggio corrisponde esattamente al ricorso spregiudicato agli strumenti 
metaforici di cui si serviva quella speculazione, e talora al loro innesto sperimentale 
nella coordinata autonoma dell’osservazione empirica. “L’ homo viator € sempre 
un animal symbolicum, e analogicum, continuo produttore di metafore che hanno 
come tenor il nuovo e l’ignoto e come vehicle il vecchio e il familiare. Sono 
metafore che esorcizzano |’horror vacui, facendo conoscere il dissimile col simile: 
la storia delle scoperte si configura ... come un’assimilazione 0 appropriazione 
metaforica del mondo”"’. 

Il bolognese Lodovico de Varthema (1465/70-1517) € homo viator che 
addomestica la realta esotica attraverso processi di identificazione referenziale con 
elementi di mediazione attinti dalla propria incubazione culturale e biografica in 
Oriente. Dopo aver soggiornato ad Alessandria, al Cairo, a Tripoli di Siria e a 
Damasco, nel 1502 Lodovico" si unisce ad una carovana di pellegrini mussulmani 
in marcia verso La Mecca. Una ottima conoscenza dell’arabo gli consentira di 
descrivere nel suo /tinerario (1511) con minuzioso interesse antropologico riti 
religiosi o sacrali e cerimonie liturgiche dell’Islam. In compagnia di altri pellegrini 
si dirige in Persia e poi, primo tra gli Europei, percorre in profondita lo Yemen. 


12. Sinotiche il mondo é “teatro” anche per un geografo decisamente proto-moderno come 
Abraham Ortelius (1527-1598): cfr. infatti A. Ortelius, Théatre de l’Univers, contenant les 
Cartes de tout le Monde. Avec una brieve declaration d’Icelles (Anversa: C. Plantin, 1587). 


13. G. Folena, “Prime immagini colombiane dell’ America nel lessico italiano”, Il linguaggio 
del caos. Studi sul plurilinguismo rinascimentale (Torino: Bollati Boringhieri, 1991), p. 103. 


14. Cfr. P. Amat di San Filippo, Gli illustri viaggiatori italiani con una antologia dei loro 
scritti (Roma: Stabilimento tipografico dell’ Opinione, 1885), pp. 125-42. A. De Gubernatis, 
Storia dei viaggiatori italiani nelle Indie Orientali (Livorno: Vigo, 1875), pp. 19-21, 120-26, 
291-94, 305-08, 339-42. A. Bacchi Della Lega, “Lodovico de Varthema viaggiatore 
bolognese del secolo XVI”, Atti e memorie della R. Deputazione di storia patria per le 
province di Romagna, serie IV, VII (1916-17), pp. 271-92. 


192 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


Stringe amicizia con un mercante persiano a Shiraz e con questi passa in India. 
Approda a Ceylon, poi risale fino a Palicat, attraversa il golfo del Bengala e con 
ininterrotte navigazioni prosegue la sua esplorazione dell’ Asia Orientale. Sispinge 
a Malacca e Sumatra, tocca le Molucche, soggiorna nel Borneo e a Giava. Lascia 
l’India il 6 dicembre 1507 ed impiega |’intero anno successivo nella circumnaviga- 
zione dell’ Africa. 

Come replica dello sconfinato quadro geografico che Lodovico ha visto e 
abitato, |’ /tinerario sembra ribadire |’idea di un’esaltazione della realta dell’ altro, 
resa praticabile e relazionabile mediante la conquista personale di una frontiera e 
degli interminati spazi dila da quella. All’immediatezza dell’esposizione narrativa 
fa non a caso riscontro una conquistata obiettivita etnologica. Le res complesse 
dell’ Oriente arabo e indiano trovano ampia legittimazione nella mens di Lodovico, 
che ne giustifica dal didentro la pregnanza concettuale o devozionale, e ne esprime 
l’ostensione sociale dell’ artificium senza nulla concedere al pregiudizio occidentale 
della stravaganza. Per meglio chiarire l’atteggiamento di de Varthema di fronte 
all’esercizio delle ritualita fideistiche orientali, richiamo qui un brano che mi pare 
opportunamente in grado di fornire indicazioni precise circa la serena disponibilita 
dell’ osservatore nei confronti di una confessione spirituale remotissima da quella 
della Chiesa cattolica. Nel suo resoconto, Lodovico descrive l’insorgenza di 
emozioni e di immagini connesse a talune pratiche devote induistiche senza 
minimamente interferire con l’ethos che le anima. Egli le traduce in discorso per 
gli Occidentali rispettando la prassi disciplinatoria del rito senza alcuna compara- 
zione con i riti liturgici cristiani né presunzione di superiorita. Vediamo dunque 
in che modo Lodovico racconta nel suo Itinerario Vidolatria braminica e le 
successive fasi della celebrazione del rito: 


Loro confessano che un Dio ha creato il cielo e la terra e tutto il mondo, ed é 
la prima causa in tutte le cose ...: essi lo chiamano il Deumo .... E questo Deumo 
il re di Calicut lo tiene nella sua cappella ... Ogni mattina li Bramini, cioé 
sacerdoti, vanno a lavare il detto idolo tutto quanto con acqua odorifera, e poi 
lo profumano e, come I|’hanno profumato, l’adorano. E alcuna volta fra la 
settimana li fanno sacrificio in questo modo: hanno una certa tavoletta fatta e 
ornata in modo di uno altare, alta da terra tre palmi, larga quattro e lunga cinque, 
la qual talvolta é molto bene ornata di rose, fiori e altre gentilezze odorifere, 
sopra la quale mettono sangue di gallo e carboni accesi in un vaso d’argento, con 
molti profumi di sopra; hanno poi un turibulo col quale incensano intorno al detto 
altare, e una campanella d’argento la qual sonano molto spesso. Tengono in mano 
un cortello d’argento, col quale hanno ammazzato il gallo, e quello intingono nel 
sangue, e lo mettono alcuna volta sopra il fuoco, e alcuna volta lo pigliano, e 
fanno alcuni atticome colui che vuol giocare di schirmia: e finalmente abbruciano 
tutto quel sangue, stando continuamente candele di cera accese.'* 


15. Cito da Jtinerario di Lodovico de Varthema in Arabia, in India e nell’Asia sudorientale, 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 193 


Oltre agli aspetti rituali della religiosita orientale, lo sguardo antropologico 
di Lodovico de Varthema mira a dislocare nel reticolo informativo indicazioni 
molteplici a proposito dei costumi sessuali dei popoli da lui conosciuti e frequentati 
con assiduita. Come si é gia visto in Niccolo de’ Conti, quella che chiamerei 
disponibilita delle donne autoctone a concedersi al viaggiatore occidentale diviene 
rapidamente un corroborato topos in grado di esercitare una seduttiva parentesi a 
favore dell’Oriente. Questo topos, gia ampiamente attestato nel Milione di Marco 
Polo, non manca di percuotersi sull’orizzonte d’attesa del destinatario occidentale, 
indotto (e direi anzi costretto) questi sul piano sociale e culturale ad un ordinamento 
repressivo, se non ad una drastica rimozione, delle pulsioni vitaliste. Nell’ /tinera- 
rio di de Varthema le notizie riguardanti le abitudini sessuali di talune etnie 
dell’Asia centrorientale sono ben sedimentate nell’impostazione generale del 
racconto, e sembrano quantitativamente presenti in copia inusitata rispetto alle 
relazioni precedenti. In esse si possono identificare appieno le modalita dello 
“scambio” e della tolleranza, caratteristiche dominanti nell’orizzonte mentale di 
viaggiatori come Lodovico. Nel passo che riproduco di seguito, dedicato all’ argo- 
mento eticamente delicato della deflorazione delle giovani illibate, Lodovico esprime 
senza pudori e sensi di colpa un’esperienza autobiografica la cui alterita radicale 
ha effetti stridenti se rapportata al mondo psicologico dell’individuo occidentale, 
e in primis del mercante borghese, all’interno del quale i motivi fondamentali 
dell’esistenza vanno ravvisati nel legame di famiglia, nella prosapia e nella 
discendenza, nell’educazione dei figli demandata alle donne, nel rispetto delle 
norme della morale religiosa, nel vincolo quasi di possesso sancito dallo jus primae 
noctis. Questo l’essenziale della narrazione devarthemiana: 


Il re di detta citta [Tarnassari] non fa sverginar la sua moglie alli Bramini come 
fa il re di Calicut, anzi la fa svirginare ad uomini bianchi, 0 siano cristiani o 
mori, pur che non siano gentili. I quali gentili ancor loro, innanzi che menino 
la sposa a casa sua, trovano un uomo bianco, sia di che lingua si voglia, e lo 
menano a casa loro pur a questo effetto, per far svirginare la moglie. E questo 
intravenne a noi quando arrivammo alla detta citta. Per buona ventura scon- 
trammo tre o quattro mercatanti, li quali cominciorono a parlare .... E cosi uno 
di quelli mercatanti disse: “Venite a casa mia, che noi siamo grandi amici di 
forestieri”; e noi udendo questo andammo con lui. Giunti che fummo a casa sua, 
egli ci dette da far collazione e poi ci disse: “Amici miei, da qui a venti giorni 
voglio menar la donna mia, e uno di voi dormira con lei la prima notte e me la 
svirginera”. Intendendo noi tal cosa, rimanemmo tutti vergognosi; disse allora 
il nostro turcimanno: “Non abbiate vergogna, che questa é l’usanza della terra”. 
... Pur pensavamo d’esser dileggiati.'® 


raccolto in G. B. Ramusio, Navigazioni e viaggi cit., 1, pp. 761-892: pp. 824-25 (“Del re 
di Calicut e della religione”). Chiarisco che nel testo citato schirmia sta per “scherma”. 


16. Ibidem, p. 849 (“Come il re fa svirginare la sua moglie, e cosi tutti gli altri gentili della 


194 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


L’idea di una contiguita fra Occidente ed Oriente, fra l’homo viator e l’altro, 
si esprime anche al livello elementare della natura fisica e delle attivita umane 
mediante la consumazione erotica, vero e proprio trait d’union in un microcosmo 
psicologicamente plurietnico che sembra parodia agli occhi dell’ Europeo (“pensa- 
vamo d’esser dileggiati”). In realta quel microcosmo familiare e plurietnico nel 
contempo Si inscrive in una consuetudine (“questa é l’usanza della terra”) dipen- 
dente da una alterita mentale sulla quale l’osservatore occidentale @ chiamato a 
riflettere mediante la conquistata opportunita della convivenza, del “vivere insie- 
me”. 

Con la sua relazione di viaggio, zeppa di sapide notizie antropologiche, 
Lodovico de Varthema offre all’Europa curiosa e allibita uno spaccato fedele, e 
dunque ancora piteccitante, del lontano Oriente. Sul piano sociologico dell’imma- 
ginario collettivo e sul registro della ricezione ad esso collegato, nell’ Europa del 
primo Rinascimento l’habitus mentale dell’altro risulta percid coinvolto in una 
particolare fortuna. E questo perché, tra le altre ragioni, in quell’ habitus straniero 
era senza eccessive difficolta ravvisabile un’evidente posizione d’apertura nei 
confronti dei rapporti fra i sessi, nonché una indulgenza al piacere fisico radicata 
in maniera esplicita nelle istanze pubblicamente ammesse di vita comune. Sono 
testimonianze, questa ed altre fornite dallo sguardo antropologico di de Varthe- 
ma'’, che andrebbero rilette tenendo ben presenti le moderne acquisizioni etnologi- 
che, ed ancor pit soffermandosi ampiamente sullo iato culturale tra Oriente ed 
Occidente cosi ben presente nelle epidittiche pagine dell’ /tinerario. 

Tuttavia il riconoscimento di una simile idiosincrasia tra civilta orientale e 
civilta occidentale presuppone anche l’ormai conquistata capacita di abitare il 
Mondo, vale a dire l’opportunita di scegliere in quale parte di esso vivere la propria 
esistenza. Grazie appunto al confronto diretto con |’altro, é ora possibile definire 
gli svariati ed eterogenei paesi nel loro significato di contesti etnici e geografici 
specifici, e decidere di conseguenza verso quale di essi direzionare la propria 
traiettoria di marcia. 

Al di 1a degli orizzonti antropologici meramente letterari, vorrei qui ampliare 
brevemente il tracciato distributivo delle argomentazioni richiamando quel fenomeno 
di intensa migrazione individuale verso Oriente i cui dati quantitativi assommano 
nel corso del XVI secolo a parecchie decine di migliaia di individui (congettural- 
mente giacché sinora sono mancati studi corredati da un esaustivo apparato di dati 


citta”). 


17. Come quella, per fornire un ulteriore esempio che mi pare assai efficace, della “tal 
consuetudine” fra “li gentiluomini e mercatanti gentili” per la quale essi “alcuna volta 
scambiano le loro mogli”: [bidem, p. 828 (“Come li gentili alcuna volta scambiano le loro 
mogli”). 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 195 


statistici)'*. Il flusso migratorio diretto nei territori appartenenti all’Impero 
Ottomano (un alter mundus “americano” pit vicino e conosciuto del Nuovo Mondo 
appena scoperto su cui Fernand Braudel’’ ha scritto pagine di storiografia sociale 
magistrali per metodo e contenuto) coincide al suo apice non a caso col momento 
di crisi reazionaria della Controriforma. Ma soprattutto un tale spostamento 
antropico puo essere letto quale concreto passaggio cronologico-culturale ammissi- 
bilmente determinante nella progressiva crescita numerica di Europei che scelgono 
di abbandonare |’Occidente per l’Oriente. E si tratta di soggetti sociali assai meno 
allineabili 0 riducibili ad euldj e xabequeros di quanto la cronachistica seicentesca, 
da Simone Contarini a De Haedo e Pierre Dan, abbia schematicamente ritenuto, 
evidentemente manipolando le biografie dei “rinnegati” a fini devozionali ed 
edificanti, com’é ovvio secondo coscienziosi intenti di profilassi preventiva e 
disciplinare. 

Negli stati barbareschi ed ottomani tra 1580 e 1630 erano pit di ventimila gli 
Europei stabilmente inseriti in ruoli socio-economici che i rispettivi paesi d’ origine 
non avrebbero potuto loro offrire. Il calabrese Ulug Ali, detto Occhiali, figlio di 
un povero barcaiolo, guida in veste di ammiraglio la flotta turca nella battaglia di 
Lepanto (1571), mentre agli inizi del Seicento su 43 rais almeno 20 sono di origine 
occidentale. Dal 1631 troviamo come bay di Tunisi il ligure Osta Morato, 
proveniente da una famiglia di carpentieri, a cui si affianca nelle funzioni giurisdi- 
zionali ed amministrative un altro eu/dj italiano, tale Mamy Ferrarese. Ma gia nella 
prima meta del Cinquecento |’ex pastore sardo Hassan Aga era divenuto governa- 
tore di Algeri. II fascino dell’orientalismo non investe solo le classi socialmente 
meno abbienti, ma persuade e coinvolge anche illustri esponenti dei ceti superiori. 
La nobile veneziana Cecilia Baffo (morta nel 1583), figlia illegittima di Niccolo 
Venier, si converte all’Islam prendendo il nome di Nur Banu e sposa il sultano 
Selim III, a cui da il primogenito, erede al trono col nome di Murad III. Rientra 
nel medesimo quadro di fecondi scambi tra Occidente e Oriente il fatto che nel 1599 
Tommaso Campanella era in stretto contatto col rinnegato messinese Cigala, 
divenuto illustre notabile della classe funzionariale ottomana. 

Persino all’interno del mondo ecclesiastico il paese dell’altro fa avvertire la 
suggestione di una radicale liberta sconosciuta alle interdizioni omologanti che 
connotano il tessuto connettivo dei paesi europei nell’eta della Controriforma. 
L’episodio pit eclatante e scandalistico che i documenti coevi trasmettono risale 


18. Cfr. N. L. Green, “L’histoire comparative et le champ des études migratoires” , Annales. 
Economies Sociétés Civilisations, XLV (1990), pp. 1335-50, in part. pp. 1339-44 (“Emigrer 
et comparer”). P.-A. Rosental, “Maintien / rupture: un noveau couple pour |’analyse des 
migrations”, ibidem, pp. 1403-31, in part. pp. 1407-10 (“Espace vécu et espace investi”) 
e pp. 1422-28 (“Déracinements et réenracinements”). 


19. F. Braudel, Civilia e imperi del Mediterraneo nell’eta di Filippo II, trad. it., 2 voll 
(Torino: Einaudi, 1976). 


196 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


al giugno 1631, quando i frati spagnoli Giovanni Lopez da Madrid e Giovanni 
Fecondo Vigna da Barcellona tentano di disertare dall’esercito della Chiesa 
introducendosi travestiti da mercanti nel Fondaco dei Turchi a Venezia coll’ intento 
di fuggire a Costantinopoli ed abbandonare la Cristianita. Circa un decennio pit 
tardi, inoltre, cronache di contemporanei affermano che a Costantinopoli due ex 
minori conventuali calabresi, dopo l’apostasia, ricoprono cariche di alta dignita 
religiosa presso la gerarchia dell’Islam”. 

Anche dall’approssimazione schematica di questi dati sommari, é tangibile la 
vitale sovrapposizione e l’incrociarsi frenetico degli scambi antropologici e sociali 
che senza contraddizioni arricchirono la civilté rinascimentale di un’identita 
progressista e culturalmente aperta a soluzioni di convivenza multirazziale e 
plurietnica. Noné pit il senso letterario dell’ aventure a suggerire la frequentazione 
dell’Oriente. Prevale ora un proliferare di fattori economico-sociali che spingono 
a trasferirsi ed adattarsi in aree straniere e tuttavia pit proponibili come ipotesi 
di ascesa sociale dopo la rifeudalizzazione in senso signorile dell Italia tardo-cinque- 
centesca, ai quali si aggiunge l’ulteriore spinta dell’energia di inesperite acquisizioni 
intellettuali. Né vanno sottovalutate, lo sié visto con Niccold de’ Conti e Lodovico 
de Varthema, matrici pid vitaliste o aspirazioni ad una maggiore liberta di costumi. 

Con perfetta coscienza dello scarto culturale e religioso, la conversione 
all’Islamismo e l’abiura del Cristianesimo era consuetudine largamente praticata 
una volta al sicuro dall’Inquisizione”'. Pertanto l’opzione antieuropeista persuade 
anche in termini di liberta ideologica 1 fuoriusciti occidentali, i quali, all’interno 
del lungo e complesso processo di sostituzione-adattamento, identificano nel paese 
dell’altro il luogo della liberta individuale e dell’eguaglianza collettiva. Natural- 
mente agiscono qui parametri che 1 dislivelli della tradizionale e prestabilita 
gerarchia europea non sanno né possono ancora condividere, pena una grave 
scissione degli strati detentori dell’ordine. Va tuttavia precisato che siffatta 
immagine dell’ alter mundus fortemente connotata in senso demotico e anti-oligar- 
chico deriva agli Europei non dalla effettiva inesistenza, in Oriente, di caste sociali 
O pregiudizi legati alla genealogia, bensi dalla facilita con cui gli Occidentali erano 
ammessi a ricoprire cariche superiori, grazie ad una accorta politica di “fusione” 
condotta non senza scopi propagandistici dagli Ottomani. 

La letteratura di viaggio, col suo scrupolo informativo che veicola notazioni 
sociali, economiche, religiose, culturali, persino sessuali e igieniche, @ riconoscibile 


20. Cfr. L. Rostagno, Mi faccio turco. Esperienze ed immagini dell’Islam nell’Italia moderna 
(Roma: Istituto per l’Oriente “C. A. Nallino”, 1983); P. Preto, Venezia ei Turchi (Firenze: 
Sansoni, 1975); L. Scaraffia, “Il rinnegato. Fra Cristianita e Islam”, Prometeo, IV, n. 14 
(1986), pp. 38-47. 


21. Cfr. B. Bennassar, “Conversion ou reniement? Modalités d’une adhésion ambigtie des 
chrétiens a l’Islam (XVI*-XVII* siécles)”, Annales. Economies Sociétés Civilisations, XLII 
(1988), 1349-1366. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 197 


con sicurezza quale ineliminabile fase suasoria e parenetica che necessariamente 
sta all’origine del flusso migratorio cinquecentesco (verso le Indie Orientali) e di 
quello seicentesco ben pit consistente diretto nelle Indie Occidentali dopo che le 
relazioni degli esploratori hanno garantito l’indispensabile bagaglio di dati e di 
informazioni su cui si basa |’educazione propedeutica al viaggio del colono. 
All’ordine individuale del dire—informare, raccontare, precisare, ragguagliare, 
specificare—succede 1’ ordine collettivo dell’agire—partire, trasferire, colonizzare, 
commerciare, fondare. All’esplorazione del marcheur solitario succede la massa 
migratoria dei coloni. L’homo viator si muta in homo faber. 


Ill. “.. buscar el levante por el ponente” 


Alle spalle del récit de voyage va dunque riconosciuta la presenza di criteri 
letterariamente strutturanti e di ordinamenti espressivi consolidati dalla serialita 
retorica e formale. Strettamente connesso a questa organizzazione del récit, il 
paesaggio geografico inizia a comporsi in spazialita localizzate. E la conoscenza 
di un ordine di luoghi visibili, pronunciabili in un toponimo e fissati nella tipologia 
scientifica moderna in quanto distinguibili secondo determinazioni topografiche. 

Nel Cinquecento la relazione di viaggio che piu si adegua alle nuove esigenze 
scientifiche e letterarie é senza dubbio il diario di bordo. \spirato ad un originale 
senso del realismo, il diario di bordo diviene da Colombo in poi un vero e proprio 
“genere” letterario”. Nel raggiungimento graduale delle tappe che si susseguono, 
il Diario di Colombo postula in definitiva lo statuto moderno del viaggio. Esso 
rappresenta la testimonianza scritta del percorso effettuato ed il resoconto minuzioso 
autorizzato dall’occhio vedente: dunque veritiera testimonianza dell’epica naviga- 
zione relativa alle gesta scientifiche. 

Sin dall’esordio del Diario, le incipitarie dichiarazioni programmatiche di 
Cristoforo Colombo tendono ad assicurare il lettore su di una garanzia di obiettivita, 
facendo pure leva sull’accrescimento non irrilevante delle cognizioni scientifiche, 
non solamente cartografiche bensi anche climatiche, metereologiche, nautiche. 
Vediamo assieme un breve ma significativo passo del Diario colombiano, dal quale 
emerge a sufficienza una tale impostazione di metodo descrittivo: 


E per questo pensai di scrivere tutto questo viaggio molto puniualmente, di giorno 
in giorno tutto quello che io facessi e che vedessi e che accadesse, come avanti 
si vedra. Inoltre, Signori Principi, oltre a scrivere ogni notte quello che avverra 
nella giornata e durante il giorno quello che navighero di notte, ho l’intenzione 


22. Va tuttavia precisato che la selezione qualitativa degli istituti topico-retorici risulta essere 
compiuta sin dal Viaggio a Gerusalemme di Nicolo da Este, scritto nel 1413 da Luchino 
Dal Campo. In attesa di un’edizione filologicamente avvertita lo si legga ancora in L. Dal 
Campo, “Viaggio a Gerusalemme di Nicold da Este”, Miscellanea di opuscoli inediti e rari 
dei secoli XIV e XV, 1: Prose (Torino: Unione Tipografico-Editrice, 1861), pp. 99-161. 


198 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


di fare una nuova carta nautica nella quale collochero tutto il mare e le terre del 
mare Oceano, nelle loro esatte posizioni, sotto la loro direzione di vento ed 
inoltre di comporre un libro e porvi tutto come per pittura a seconda della 
latitudine dall’equatore e longitudine dall’Occidente (miei corsivi).” 


La curiosita intellettuale del navigatore conserva intatta il senso narrativo 
dell’ aventure oltre le Colonne d’ Ercole, ma la quéte si arricchisce ora di un’inedita 
qualita stilistica. Quella di trasmettere i contenuti scientifici (a cui Colombo dedica 
una spontanea, profondissima attenzione) con un calco capace di conservare le 
sfumature fabulose™, corrivamente inteso ad una circolazione libraria verso un 
pubblico sempre pit vasto e composito. Come testimonianza sul piano storiografico 
e come fase d’esordio della vicenda coloniale, il Diario colombiano sembra 
enucleare una forma letterariamente matura e assai compatta dal punto di vista 
stilistico e formale, immessa nella serie dei generi letterari tra la cronaca e il 
romance. Essa elabora infatti nei canali della nuova scrittura scientifica il vecchio 
tema del viaggio, che come abbiamo visto risulta saldato alle aspettative mitico-leg- 
gendarie radicate nell’immaginario europeo sin dal Medioevo, eppure consentendo 
altresi di individuare con relativa puntalita 1 motivi pil esplicitamente pratici e 
tecnici, svolti talora con finalita insegnative. Questa mescolanza di tratti fabulosi 
oO comunque strettamente connessi ad un ruolo non subalterno dei materiali 
immaginari, e di tratti direttamente riconducibili all’edificazione di un parametro 
scientifico moderno rappresenta l’aspetto forse pil suggestivo del Diario di 
Colombo”’. 

Colombo si muove all’ interno di un paradigma culturale che tende ad autorici- 
clarsi. Egliaccompagna grandissime scoperte di notevole valore scientifico ad una 
iterata colleganza con la concezione tradizionale dell’auctoritas. Con sicuri 
riscontri linguistici, Gianfranco Folena ha giustamente vagliato con insistenza la 
filigrana erudita di eredita medievale e di stampo scholasticus alla quale si rivolge, 
sentendola ancora come memoria viva, l’esploratore ligure nello svolgere 1 suoi 
interventi epidittici. “Con la Bibbia o Tolomeo alla mano—spiega Folena—, 
Colombo appare come una specie di nuovo Adamo ‘onomaturgo’, in un Eden ignoto 


23. Cito da C. Colombo, Diario di bordo. Libro della prima navigazione e scoperta delle 
Indie, ed. G. Ferro (Milano: Mursia, 1985), pp. 20-22. 


24. Cfr. L. Formisano, “Appunti sullo stile narrativo di Colombo”, Rivista di letterature 
moderne e comparate, XLII (1989), 223-233. 


25. Si veda ad esempio uno dei brani centrali di tutto il Diario, quello in cui Colombo 
descrive in terza persona il primo avvistamento della terraferma dopo molti mesi di 
navigazione. Nella sua descrizione, accanto ad una sorvegliatissima esposizione dei dati 
nautici e cartografici, si coglie pure in sottofondo la dimensione romanzesca che permea 
di sé l’intero racconto colombiano, puntando con scaltrezza retorica da esperto narratore 
a tenere ben desta la curiositas del lettore, tramite procedimenti di sospensione e prolessi 
della narrazione. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 199 


e sfuggente: di fronte alla realta che lo circonda, e nell’imporre nomi alle cose, 
egli assume spesso un atteggiamento sacrale, biblico””®. 

Specialmente rilevante, a proposito di una nuova trasposizione iconologica della 
Natura, mi sembra |’importantissimo diario di bordo di Antonio Pigafetta (1480 
o 1491-1534 ca.). Anche Pigafetta @ veneto (di Vicenza), imbarcato sulla nave 
di Magellano durante il tragico viaggio di circumnavigazione tra il 1519 e il 1522, 
fu fra i soli diciotto superstiti tornati in Europa. Di quel viaggio Pigafetta fu attento 
e scrupoloso cronista ed il suo diario-récit costituisce forse il testo piu significativo 
del “ciclo” delle scoperte geografiche. II resoconto di Pigafetta senza difficolta 
si immagina fruttificato su di un terreno in cui prevale decisamente |’amplificata 
coordinazione degli aspetti tecnici e /atu sensu scientifici. AlIl’interno di esso la 
registrazione delle terre ignote toccate ed esplorate é resa attraverso l’ausilio di 
una sollecitante compresenza di notazioni geo-astronomiche, nautiche, metereologi- 
che, climatiche, ambientali nonché, con una insistenza mai prima cosi largamente 
caratterizzante, etnologiche. 

Ed addirittura etno-linguistiche se Pigafetta ritiene di dover repertoriare lunghi 
e copiosi elenchi di voci indigene”’, ovvero “vocabuli de li giganti pataghoni”. 
A questi elenchi egli allega persino dei precisi avvertimenti fonetici circa la loro 
pronuncia, avvertimenti mutuati dalla fisica e viva voce degli autoctoni: “tuti questi 
vocabuli se pronuntiano in gorgha perché cussi li pronuntiavano loro”. E una 
testimonianza, anche questa meramente linguistica, assolutamente primaria, poiché 
si riferisce alla frequentazione antropologica del “vivere insieme”, risolta nell’im- 
presa ardua di una comunicazione linguistica con un idioma remotissimo dai 
linguaggi europei e percid segnale preciso e non contraddittorio della volonta di 
un auspicabile allacciamento culturale: “me disse questi vocabuli quel gigante, che 
havevamo nella nave””*. 

Parecchio lontano da quello di Colombo “onomaturgo”, il diario di bordo di 
Pigafetta si modula su una forte tensione di scrittura immersa in un rivoluzionario 


26. G. Folena, Prime immagini colombiane, cit., p. 117. 


27. Cfr. G. Soravia, “Pigafetta lessicografo dei nuovie vecchi mondi”, L’eta delle scoperte 
geografiche nei suoi riflessi linguistici in Italia. Atti del Convegno di studi. Firenze, 21-22 
ottobre 1992 (Firenze: Accademia della Crusca, 1994), pp. 67-95. Agli interessi linguistici 
di Pigafetta dedica un approfondito esame T. J. Cachey Jr. nell’introduzione all’edizione 
da lui curata di A. Pigafetta, The First Voyage Around the World (1519-1522). An Account 
of Magellan’s Expedition (New York: Marsilio, 1995), pp. xxviii segg. 


28. Cito da A. Pigafetta, La mia longa et pericolosa navigatione. La prima circumnaviga- 
zione del globo (1519-1522). Trascrizione dal codice della Biblioteca Ambriosiana, ed. L. 
Giovannini (Milano: Edizioni Paoline, 1989), p. 91. La succinta campionatura degli elenchi 
di voci indigene raccolte da Pigafetta, é, credo, il primo esempio di documentazione relativa 
alle lingue amerindie meridionali e pertanto essa assume valenza decisiva sul piano delle 
testimonianze storiografiche. 


200 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


modello culturale le cui caratteristiche dominanti sono individuabili nell’ orizzonte 
d’interesse antropologico”. La frequentazione dell’altro é coestensiva alla 
partecipazione ideologica e mentale al modus vivendi di genti sconosciute che 
abitano terre ignote, mai descritte prima e totalmente aliene rispetto ai parametri 
civili degli Europei. Non é l’Oriente di Polo e Niccolé de’ Conti, di Barbaro e 
Lodovico de Varthema, parzialmente assimilabile (se non talvolta perfino preferi- 
bile) alla vecchia Europa. E un Nuovo Mondo radicalmente diverso in cui viri a 
diis recentes limitano la propria esistenza alla mera fruizione ecologica e naturalista 
del paradisus australis. 

Il contatto e la curiosita etnologica vanno dunque individuati come elementi 
determinanti della narrazione di Pigafetta. Egli non perde occasione per sottolineare 
la precoce familiarita stabilitasi tra i navigatori europei e gli indigeni amerindi, 
ancora in questa fase iniziale sigillo di una pacifica e serena convivenza. Sono 
frequenti frasi di questo tipo: “grande familliaritade pigliarono con nui questi 
popoli”; “pigliascemo gran piacere con questi, perché eranno asay piacevoli et 
conversabili””. Da questa familiarita, cioé ancora una volta, dall’esperienza del 
“vivere insieme”, Pigafetta estrae un progetto che é nello stesso tempo didattico 
e€ narrativo, arricchito inoltre da scrupolose documentazioni antropologiche. Un 
progetto che, una volta trasposto nell’immaginario letterario degli Europei, evochera 
neile strutture mentale di essi motivi riferibili a fantasticherie spesso coincidenti 
con le immagini affabulatorie della prassi diegetica occidentale. 

Pigafetta ¢ homo viator che si integra nello spazio che percorre e garantisce 
sempre l’intentio didattica ed espositiva che costituisce il sostrato concettuale e 
metodologico delle sue descrizioni. Egli riferisce circa le distanze: “In questi tre 
mesi et vinti giorni andasemo circa de quatro millia legue in un golfo per questo 
mar Pacifico”; “andando a cinquanta dui gradi, al medesimo Polo, trovassemo nel 
giorno delle undici millia vergine uno streto”. Offre estese campionature di 
toponomastica indigena ( “la ysola dove erano se chiama Humunu”) e precisa 
quando é in grado di farlo “li nomi de algune ysole, che se vedevano”*'. Ma 
soprattutto egli consuma una pratica visiva che fa appello all’ auctoritas dell’ occhio 
vedente, secondo una metodologia ormai divenuta topica ma empiricamente 
condivisa anche dalla scrittura diColombo. Anche nel Diario colombiano I’inqua- 
dratura dello sguardo occupa un ruolo di primo piano, ed emerge evidente sul piano 
retorico e lessicale dell’ esposizione narrativa. L’importanza attribuita alla funzione 
dell’occhio vedente, strumento di autorita che non ha pit bisogno di ricorrere alla 
citazione 0 alla memoria libraria per rendere credibile la descrizione che formula, 


29. Cfr. G. Gliozzi, La scoperta dei selvaggi. Antropologia e colonialismo da Colombo a 
Diderot (Milano: Principato, 1971). 


30. A. Pigafetta, La mia longa et pericolosa navigatione, cit., pp. 104-105. 
31. lbidem., rispettivamente pp. 94, 82, 104-105. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 201 


| si coglie benissimo in questo passo del Diario di Colombo, e in particolare nella 
| insistita reiterazione del verbo vedere: 


E tutti quelli che vidi erano tutti giovani e non ne vidi nessuno di pit di trenta 
anni, molto ben fatti, di corpo molto bello e di volto molto gradevole. ... Io ne 
vidi alcuni che avevano segni di ferite ... Essi devono essere buoni servitori e 
di buen ingegno, poiché vedo che molto presto ripetono tutto quello che loro 
dicevo. ... Nessuna bestia, di nessuna specie, salvo pappagalli, vidi in quest’iso- 
lag? 


Se le condizioni ambientali lo consentono, il voyageur-voyeur soggiorna e 
frequenta, prende contatto: abita un luogo antropologico. L’occhio vedente 


_ accresce il valore di queste spinte e direzioni di marcia, mentre la misura delle 


energie culturali coinvolte si accentua in modo direttamente proporzionale allo 
sviluppo della sensibilita etnografica. Colombo e Pigafetta superano la prassi 
quattrocentesca e precoloniale della mediazione mercantile (caratteristica denotativa 
in Niccolo de’ Conti e Lodovico de Varthema) e rendono non improponibile 
l’ipotesi realistica e positivamente remunerativa dello sfruttamento dello spazio 
dell’altro. Ali’etica dello scambio subentra il diritto alla conquista*®. Occorre 
percid, da questo monento in poi, impadronirsi, appropriarsi dello spazio territoriale 
e geografico dell’altro. Si avvia cosi di fatto il processo di dissoluzione delle 
strutture concettuali e socio- economiche dell’universo mercantile tardomedievale 
€ quattrocentesco, al cui interno l’incrociarsi e il variegato confrontarsi delle forme 
di esistenza diverse aveva dato vita, lungo un asse di continuita plurisecolare, alle 
istanze “borghesi” della tolleranza e della solidarieta, gia civilmente mature per 
essere integrate in un orizzonte di reciproco riconoscimento delle alterita. 
Come per Pigafetta (e a differenza di Colombo), anche per Filippo Sassetti 


(1540-1588) il sito colonizzato implica una fase culturale di acquisizione geografica 


che ruota intorno alla novita di un’esperienza connettiva e di un interesse etnografi- 


_ co. La vicenda biografica di Sassetti* é esemplarmente rappresentativa di un’idea 
_ pedagogica ed insegnativa che rifiuta il monopolio dell’educazione letteraria e 
_ Visolamento della vita solitaria. Al contrario, per Sassetti il conoscere e l’appren- 


32. C. Colombo, Diario, cit., pp. 46-47. 


33. Cfr. F. Jennings, L’invasione dell’America. Indiani, coloni e miti della conquista, trad. 
it. (Torino: Einaudi, 1991). 


34. Cfr. V. Bramanti, “Filippo Sassetti e il viaggio della scrittura”, Affi e memorie 


dell’Accademia toscana di scienze e lettere “La Colombaria", LIV (1989), pp. 343-59. M. 


Milanesi, “Filippo Sassetti e la geografia del Cinquecento”, ibidem, pp. 324- 42. G. 
Nencioni, “Filippo Sassetti sulle rotte della cultura e degli oceani”, ibidem, pp. 287-316. 
Il numero della rivista é interamente dedicato a Una giornata di studi su Filippo Sassetti 
nel IV Centenario della morte: ad essa pertanto si rinvia per dati biografici ed ulteriori 
indicazioni bibliografiche. 


202 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


dere dipendono necessariamente dal viaggiare, da un incessante itinerario, soprat- 
tutto dal “vivere insieme” e dalla condivisione delle esperienze. 

Nel 1578, quale sovrintendente dell’azienda commerciale dei Capponi, Sassetti 
lascia la Toscana per recarsi a Siviglia, a Madrid e a Lisbona. Alla sue spalle 
lascia la prospettiva piccolo borghese dello studio quale strumento di emancipazione 
sociale (ora che l’eredita dell’ Umanesimo garantisce una nuova dignitas all’ intellet- 
tuale). Davanti a sé e ai suoi occhi vede la prospettiva intercontinentale “d’India 
e di tutte l’altre navigazioni scoperte da cent’anni in qua”*°. Una prospettiva 
materialmente assicurata dai porti iberici, i quali garantiscono nella seconda meta 
del Cinquecento un ormai pressoché regolare ponte marittimo con le pili remote 
regioni di interesse coloniale e commerciale. Entrato a servizio presso un ricco 
mercante portoghese, Filippo lascia Lisbona e si imbarca alla volta dell’ India. L’8 
novembre 1583 sbarca sulla costa del Malabar, e qui tra Coccino e Goa restera 
sino alla morte, avvenuta solo cinque anni dopo, il 3 settembre 1588. 

Incessantemente tra il 1583 e il 1588 le Lettere sassettiane sono latrici di 
notizie di eccezionale importanza e assoluta novita. Esse sono perlopit indirizzate 
al cardinale Ferdinando de’ Medici e al granduca di Toscana Francesco I (1574-- 
1587), dei quali Sassetti diviene prezioso informatore circa la movida di Spagnoli 
e Portoghesi nelle Indie Orientali. Ma molte delle epistole, qualora trattino di 
questioni pit intellettuali e scientifiche che politico-diplomatiche, sono destinate 
a due personalita di primo piano della cultura fiorentina della seconda meta del XVI 
secolo come Bernardo Davanzati e Pier Vettori. Sono epistole dalle quali si evince 
senza difficolta l’aspirazione scientifica di comunicare all’uditorio europeo un 
quadro di notizie generali riguardanti le vicende di una societa altra, e che proprio 
nell’ approfondito interesse rivolto ai costumi e alla cultura di un paese lontanissimo 
dall’Occidente richiamano alla memoria per analogia ed affinita l’epistolario di 
Andrea Berengo*, mercante veneziano in Levante dal 1553 al 1556, simile anche 
sul piano formale a quello sassettiano. 

Al pari di Pigafetta, Filippo Sassetti ha spiccati interessi etnolinguistici e le 
sue Osservazioni in merito mostrano un’articolazione scientifica decisamente 
moderna. Nella lettera del 17 gennaio 1585 a Pier Vettori, Sassetti sembra aver 
gia compreso, con la sua tipica capacita d’elaborazione intuitiva, la costituzione 
fonetica del sanscrito, della quale egli conta ben 53 fonemi (definiti da Sassetti 


35. Le citazioni sono da F. Sassetti, Lettere sopra i suoi viaggi nelle Indie orientali dal 1578 
al 1588, ed. R. F. Esposito (Bari: Edizioni Paoline, 1962), 6 marzo 1582, p. 52. 


36. Cfr. Lettres d’un marchand vénitien: Andrea Berengo (1553-1556), ed. U. Tucci (Paris: 
S.E.V.P.E.N., 1957). Esemplare dal punto di vista retorico-letterario é pure il libro di 
lettere di Amerigo Vespucci, sul quale evito di soffermarmi in questa sede per comprensibili 
ragioni di spazio: cfr. A. Vespucci, Lettere di viaggio, ed. L. Formisano (Milano: Mondado- 
ri, 1985). G. Ugolini, “Paesaggio e societa delle Indie Occidentali nelle Lettere di viaggio 
di Amerigo Vespucci”, Archivio storico italiano, CXLIV (1986), pp. 197-238. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 203 


“elementi”). Insistendo sulla “grammatica” intesa dagli Indiani come “scienza” , 
Filippo registra i tipi di variazione formale della parola (gli antichi grammatici 
indiani usavano il termine sandhi, poi diffusosi come tecnicismo presso i linguisti 
moderni) e intuisce la parentela del sanscrito con le antiche lingue europee. Si 
legga quella che a me pare la parte pit significativa della lettera indirizzata a Pier 
Vettori: 


Costoro hanno la grammatica e se ne servono. La lingua in sé é dilettevole, e 
di bel suono, per li molti elementi ch’egli hanno fino a 53; de’ quali tutti rendono 
ragione, facendoli nascere tutti da diversi movimenti della bocca .... Traducono 
nella loro facilmente tutti i concetti nostri, e stimano che noi non possiamo fare 
il medesimo de’ loro nella lingua nostra, per mancare della meta degli elementi, 
o pil. E il vero che a proferire le parole loro con li loro suoni ed accenti (che 
& quello che e’ vogliono dire) si ha molta difficulta.*” 


Sassetti offre qui una prima prova scientifica del valore semantico di certi tratti 
fonematici in quelle che la moderna linguistica definisce lingue a toni. Egli si 
mostra inoltre in grado di risalire etimologicamente a valori semiotici connotativi 
nell’analisi di una catena morfemica. Per fare solo un rapido esempio, richiamo 
il caso del nome dei bramini (sempre socialmente “riveriti e ben trattati” dichiara 
il nostro acutissimo informatore), a proposito del quale Sassetti, davvero primo 
europeo a tentare la traduzione dal sanscrito, precisa che 


del loro nome composto la prima parte Bra nella loro antica lingua significa 
Iddio, e la seconda mene specolare; sicché in tutto gli potremo chiamare teolo- 
gi.*® 

Il punto di vista qui adottato da Sassetti*”, anche se provvisoriamente traccia- 
to, richiama per analogia la descrizione del contenuto linguistico fornita da Louis 
Hjelmslev, “come essenzialmente spettante in parte alla fisica e in parte all’antropo- 
logia (sociale)”*. E tutto cid esattamente due secoli prima della “scoperta” del 
sanscrito ad opera di Sir William Jones, orientalista e giurista britannico, che nel 
1786 fu il primo ad enunciare su base comparatistica il legame storico e genetico 


37. F. Sassetti, Lettera XX. A Pietro Vettori da Santacroce di Coccino, 17 gennaio 1585, 
in Lettere, cit., p. 128. 


38. Ibidem, p.126. Sassetti fu segnalato come “primo europeo traduttore del sanscrito” gia 
nel 1875 da quell’attento indoeuropeista che fu A. De Gubernatis, “La lingua sanscrita 
secondo i nostri viaggiatori”, Storia dei viaggiatori italiani, cit., pp. 321-33, in part. p. 
330. 


39. Per precisare il quale serve anche la rilevantissima testimonianza della Lettera XXXII. 
A Bernardo Davanzati da Coccino, s. d. (febbraio 1588), pp. 220-24 dell’ed. citata. 


40. L. Hielmslev, / fondamenti della teoria del linguaggio, trad. it., ed. G. C. Lepschy 
(Torino: Einaudi, 1987), p. 84. 


204 FRANCESCO SBERLATI 


del sanscrito col latino, il greco antico e il germanico (ma solo nel 1808 la 
sensazionale rivelazione giunse alla comunita scientifica d’ Europa). 

Ancora una forte presenza di scientificita connota quello che chiamerei il 
registro geo-astronomico dell’osservatorio sassettiano. Permane tuttavia una 
cosciente mediazione scholastica in Filippo, la quale deriva dalla sua educazione 
universitaria (“come diceva il mio padre metafisico di Pisa”*'), pur prevalendo 
tuttavia un’impostazione di metodo generale arditamente aperta alla sperimentazione 
poiché proiettata tutta nello spazio “esteriore” dell’altro. Sassetti fornisce al 
curioso e ricettivo uditorio occidentale combinazioni analitiche intese ad offrire una 
seletta informazione tecnica, vale a dire anche in questo caso inerente alla strumen- 
tazione nautica, metereologica, climatica, ambientale, cartografica, marittima, 
giudiziosamente sempre notevolissima perfino nel lessico senza che si ecceda in 
rigorismi 0 schematismi settoriali. Tuttavia, ed anzi ancora piu significativamente, 
nelle sue descrizioni Filippo asseconda, al pari di Colombo, una misura diegetica 
che parla a favore di certe permanenze d’estrazione letteraria. Ecco allora evocato 
l’eroe eponimo dell’avventura cavalleresca, richiamato proprio in quanto espressione 
del viaggio inteso prima di tutto come emulazione e imitazione, sotto la spinta 
ancora una volta dell’occhio vedente (corsivi miei): 


... M’immagino che nessuno, 0 ben pochi si metterebbono a voler pure veder 
I’India a spese di tanto disagio. Ma cosi €, che si fa come Orlando, che visto 
quel battello, gli venne desio di andare in barca.” 


La suggestione romanzesca della quéte avventurosa ed oltramarina non 
impedisce a Filippo di curare minuziosamente la collocazione geografica dei 
fenomeni atmosferici e climatici. Conscio di trattare temi in prevalenza ancora 
estranei alle forme istituzionali del dibattito scientifico occidentale, Sassetti tenta 
di elaborare su basi empiriche un reticolo serrato di moduli informativi ed epidittici. 
Il richiamo alla esperienza diretta dell’osservazione si coglie nelle frequenti 
asserzioni di questo tipo: “per la sperienza che io dird appresso...” (Lett. VII, pp. 
52-53), nelle quali é evidente la solidarieta contenutistica e pragmatica col principio 
operativo dell’occhio vedente. 

Dopo la scoperta del Nuovo Mondo anche gli orizzonti esotici ben noti alla 
geografia letteraria del Medioevo e del Rinascimento sono immessi, e direi anzi 
“allocati”, nello spazio della modernita. L’ India dei romanzi cavallereschi, abitata 
da popolazioni ostili alla Cristianita occidentale ancora nell’ Jnnamorato di Boiardo, 
per il quale “é de India una gente infinita: / tutti son negri la brutta canaglia” (I, 
VI, 63, 3-4), non appartiene alla realta geografica “narrata” dalle relazioni e dai 


41. F. Sassetti, Lettera IV. A Francesco Valori da Libona, 15 giugno 1580, in Lettere, cit., 
p. 41. 


42. Id., Lettera XX cit., p. 122. 


Esplorazione geografica e antropologia 205 


racconti di viaggio. L’esperita conoscenza geografica, tramite una strategica 
operazione culturale, sviluppata diacronicamente per “tappe” da Niccolo de’ Conti 
a Filippo Sassetti, cioé dalla prima meta del Quattrocento alla seconda meta del 
Cinquecento, sottrae quei luoghi (/oca) al canone immaginario dell’ Oriente (loci 
0 topoi). Gli stessi loci esotici, riconoscibili come costanti essenziali sul piano 
topico-retorico della prassi diegetica romanza dal medievale Roman d’Alexandre 
al rinascimentale Orlando Furioso, vengono ora vincolati ad un progetto didattico 
(e dunque non pid di evasione favolistica) le cui caratteristiche dominanti sono 
orientate, almeno sino alla fine del XVI secolo, in senso antropologico. 

La letteratura di viaggio per mirabilia poli e la geografia letteraria ad essa 
comnessa, compromesso di opzioni narrative tra invenzione e realta, si persuade 
durante il Rinascimento a divenire genere “scientifico”, in un modo che, come si 
é visto, non é né velleitario né autoreferenziale, pur se talora contraddittorio. Un 
genere che ha perfetta coscienza dello scarto fra uso fabuloso-romanzesco della 
geografia ed identita sperimentale di questa. Un genere maturato lungo un asse 
cronologico plurisecolare e al cui interno, secondo “un rapporto che é allo stesso 
tempo metonimico di contiguita e metaforico di identita””’, mitografia e geografia 
rinviano l’una all’altra immagini speculari. 


Universita degli Studi, Bologna 


43..T. 3. Cachey, Ir, .“Le Isole, Fortunate....",,..cit., .pal25. 


MARZIANO GUGLIELMINETTI 


La forma dell’ America 


La causa che qui intendo perorare é probabilmente vinta in partenza e cid che dird 
é forse gia universalmente accettato senza difficolta; tuttavia, mi rimane |’impres- 
sione che tutti quelli che si occupano della letteratura di viaggio all’epoca del 
Rinascimento conservino qualche dubbio su di un fatto per me evidentissimo: che 
si tratta di letteratura, e che occorre parlarne come si parla di poesia, di tragedia, 
Ecc. 

Cid che importa prima di tutto non é lo studio della mentalita dell’autore ma 
quello della forma che di volta in volta la relazione di viaggio assume; in un 
secondo tempo si potra parlare di linguaggio, di idee, ecc. Tutti sanno - e mi si 
perdoni di enunciare una banalita — che i testi disponibili sono sempre delle lettere, 
dei diari di bordo, dei racconti, a quanto risulta da un primo sguardo lanciato su 
un materiale che rischierebbe di sembrare eterogeneo per la sola ragione che 
potrebbe essere assunto come rappresentativo della mentalita spagnola o italiana 
o francese o inglese, oppure perché verrebbe prima o dopo la Riforma protestante 
o la Controriforma cattolica. Queste Osservazioni, certamente interessanti, apparten- 
gono all’antropologia o alla storia religiosa, non alla letteratura. Non é mio 
intendimento proporre una semplificazione, ma piuttosto delimitare un campo di 
lavoro, nel quale occorre ulteriormente distinguere le grandi categorie formali cui 
ho accennato. 

E questo metodo di lavoro che voglio applicare prendendo come soggetto del 
mio intervento il corpus degli scritti sulla scoperta dell’America, quale é stato 
costituito da Paolo Collo e Pier Luigi Crovetto in un grosso volume dal titolo 
importante, // Nuovo Mondo. Gli italiani, pubblicato da Einaudi nei 1991 (nella 
stessa serie si trovano anche un volume sugli spagnoli e un altro sugli inglesi). 
Questa distinzione secondo la nazionalita dei relatori non ha niente a che vedere 
con definizioni letterarie, mentre gli autori di questa serie di volumi avrebbero 
avuto la meravigliosa possibilita di classificare i testi secondo le forme del racconto 
di viaggio adottate in Italia e fuori d’Italia - cosi meglio unificata politicamente 
— per vedere se esistevano, a questo livello, delle variazioni di uno stesso modello. 

Ho scelto, dunque, questo corpus italo-americano perché é il pit maneggevole 
e il pid aperto, poiché, come ho detto, abbiamo a nostra disposizione dei testi 
letterari, delle forme differenti, ciascuna delle quali deve essere individualizzata 
e analizzata. Per di pit, se 1’ America é, in quel momento, la novita per eccellenza, 
ci si pu domandare se le forme del viaggio in America sono a loro volta nuove 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


La forma dell’America 207 


e, nel caso contrario, se modificano pit o meno delle forme preesistenti. 

Detto cid, per limitarci ai testi del corpus prescelto (e in mancanza del tempo 
necessario per trattare testi che non vi figurano), bisogna riconoscere alla lettera 
di viaggio il primato fra le forme che stiamo cercando di definire. Michele de 
Cuneo, nell’anno “1495, die octobris”, scrive da Saona, un’isola vicina ad Haiti, 
una lettera ad un amico di Colombo, nella quale inserisce un diario del secondo 
viaggio dell’esploratore (1493-1495), diario che inizia, nello stesso tempo, con 
la descrizione dei costumi degli Indiani. Ci si pud domandare quale rapporto ci 
Sia tra queste tre forme: la lettera propriamente detta, il diario e la relazione 
antropologica. L’autore stesso risponde a questa domanda fondamentale, dopo 
averci offerto un excursus sulle piante, gli animali e gli uomini incontrati nelle isole 
dell’America centrale (gli uomini, beninteso, sono quasi animali, perché sono 
antropofagi). 


Parendome ora avere satisfatto a le richieste vostre — cioé del destinatario —, per 
mia contemplazione vi dird il viagio ch’io feci insieme cum el signor armirante 
per andare a cercare altre isole e terra ferma. 


La lettera é dunque, nella pratica, la forma esterna di questo documento, intendo 
parlare della materialita del testo, mentre il diario appartiene ben pid strettamente 
al mittente della lettera, che si divide fra due ruoli: quello dell’autore e quello 
dell’attore del viaggio; é il primo di questi ruoli che egli recita sulla scena della 
scrittura con un piacere sicuro, se interpreto bene la parola “contemplazione” che 
fa riferimento alla memoria. D’altra parte gli scrittori del XVI secolo non erano 
sprovvisti di questo piacere: penso ai ricordi dello scultore Raffaello da Montelupo 
che racconta l’assedio di Roma del 1527, alla Vita di Cellini. Ma per tornare alle 
forme letterarie, conviene aggiungere subito che Michele de Cuneo unifica le tre 
forme dando un titolo unico al racconto del viaggio, a mezza strada fra il diario 
di viaggio e il trattato di botanica e di zoologia. La cosa pid sconcertante é che 
questo titolo é in latino: De novitatibus insularum oceani Hesperii repertarum a 
don Christoforo Columbo Genuensi. 11 manoscritto di quest’opera si trova a 
Bologna, e il mio indimenticabile amico Luigi Firpo, che ha pubblicato Michele 
e l’ha molto gustato, non ha fatto osservazioni a questo proposito. A mio parere 
Si puo persino pensare che il titolo sia stato aggiunto in un secondo tempo. Questa 
ipotesi nasce dalla constatazione che, alla data del 1495, vi erano gia due testi 
dedicati all’ America, ed entrambi redatti in latino: 1’ Epistola Christofori Colombi, 
cui etas nostra multa debet, de insulis in Mari Indico nuper inventis , tradotto dallo 
spagnolo da “Aliande de Cosco” nel 1493, e la traduzione di Nicolas Scillacio, 
professore a Pavia, della relazione di Guglielmo Coma, su una parte del secondo 
viaggio di Colombo, con un titolo molto simile: De insulis meridiani atque Indici 
mari nuper inventis. 

L’Epistola & una lettera che informa il tesoriere del re Ferdinando I il Grande 


208 MARZIANO GUGLIELMINETTI 


del successo militare e politico della spedizione che ha permesso a Colombo e 
all’armata spagnola di impadronirsi di Haiti (Hispaniola) e di altre isole vicine; 
vi é fatta molto chiaramente allusione alla possibilita di impadronirsi, entro breve 
tempo, dell’oro, delle spezie, e, perché no, dei selvaggi da convertire. La lettera 
in latino di Colombo é quasi una lettera suasoria (persuasiva), che rischia di 
travisare la realta. Per esempio: i selvaggi non sono degli antropofagi, ma al 
contrario “gentes [...] amabiles admodum et benigne”; gli uccelli esotici sono dei 
philomele cioé degli usignoli; quanto ai mostri tipici delle Indie, come li avevano 
descritti Odorico da Pordenone e John Mandeville, Colombo non li ha visti affatto: 
“monstra aliqua non vidi”. 

Il problema che si pone non é di sapere se Michele de Cuneo dice le stesse 
cose di Colombo tradotto da Cosco (per quanto si riferisce a Scillacio, ne parlerd 
altrove quando mi occupero dei testi esclusi da questo corpus). Si tratta piuttosto 
di valutare le ben differenti possibilita di raccontare in un quadro piu articolato, 
come é quello che adotta Michele de Cuneo, in riferimento al quadro molto fisso 
della suasoria. In effetti redigere una lettera dall’ America, non é in primo luogo, 
scegliere lo stesso modo di raccontare gli avvenimenti delle prime spedizioni di 
Colombo; e Colombo non ha alcun diritto di essere considerato come il pit veritiero 
di qualsiasi altro che lavori per lui. Inoltre si consegue pit: facilmente |’ obiettivo 
di persuadere se si scrive in latino, lingua della storia ufficiale e universale; 
Michele de Cuneo é probabilmente pit libero, ma ha meno autorita. La scelta della 
lingua volgare si accorda bene con la scelta di una struttura di racconto che gioca 
su diversi piani di rappresentazione del reale senza escludere il piacere del racconto, 
che nasce dal ricordo e non lo oltrepassa. 

Tutto cid che ho detto non conduce alla conclusione che scrivere la scoperta 
in volgare sia in fin dei conti meglio che scriverla in latino, né che di conseguenza, 
se si vuol trovare il testimone pit vicino alla mentalita moderna, bisogni scartare 
quelli che raccontano la storia in latino. Un testo ci impedisce di avanzare in questa 
direzione: si tratta del celebre Mundus novus di Amerigo Vespucci, pubblicato per 
la prima volta a Firenze nel 1502 0 1503, e pochissimo tempo dopo, a Venezia, 
Parigi, Anversa e soprattutto in numerose citta della Germania. Questo successo 
enorme si giustificherebbe secondo Luciano Formisano, editore rigoroso del corpus 
vespucciano, sia per la scelta del latino, un latino ancora scolastico ma sufficiente- 
mente comprensibile per garantire la diffusione internazionale dell’opera, sia per 
la volonta dell’autore di dare un’esposizione quasi scientifica della materia 
geografica ed etnologica; a questo proposito, Formisano ci invita ad osservare nel 
Mundus novus Vutilizzazione dei paragrafi per dividere la materia e |’inserzione 
di immagini per descrivere il cielo meridionale. Tutto cid é esatto, ma se si guarda 
piu attentamente al testo, si ricevono alcune sorprese: per esempio alla fine del 
Mundus novus, Vespucci ci fa sapere che |’ha composto sotto forma di lettera, 
fatta poi tradurre per meglio farla conoscere ai suoi contemporanei. Egli li esorta 
anche a restare nei limiti dell’intelligenza umana stabiliti da Dio (€ pressappoco 





La forma dell’America 209 


l’avvertimento di Dante nel terzo canto del Purgatorio: “State contenti, umana 
gente, al quia”): 


Ex Italica in Latinam linguam iocundus interpres hanc epistolam vertit, ut Latini 
omnes intelligant quam multa miranda Indies reperiantur, et eorum comprimatur 
audacia, qui celun et malestatem scrutari et plus sapere quam liceat sapere volunt, 
quando a tanto tempore quo mundus cepit ignota sit vastitatis terre et que continean- 
tur in eo. 


Mario Pozzi, rigoroso editore del corpus vespucciano, ha dato di questa 
traduzione una versione in lingua volgare pubblicata da Ramusio in cui tutte queste 
indicazioni finali sono scomparse. In cambio si fa dire a Vespucci che si sta 
preparando per un altro viaggio, con questo scopo: “a laude e gloria di Dio, a 
utilita della patria, a perpetua memoria del mio nome, e principalmente a onore 
e alleviamento delle mia vecchiezza, la quale é gia quasi venuta”. E un impegno 
che egli prende nei confronti del destinatario della lettera, Pietro Soderini, “gon- 
falonier della magnifica repubblica di Firenze” nella versione di Ramusio, mentre 
il Mundus novus @ indirizzato a “Laurentio Petri de’ Medicis”, cioé Lorenzo di 
Pier Francesco de’ Medici (aggiungo che il “iocundus interpres” sarebbe Giovanni 
del Giocondo, architetto e umanista di Verona, ma “iocundus” potrebbe essere un 
aggettivo e la sua interpretazione avrebbe allora un aspetto divertente, come I’ha 
in effetti quando si pensa alle informazioni sulle abitudini sessuali dei selvaggi). 

In ogni modo, il Mundus novus @ una lettera che, nel suo sviluppo, non diventa 
soltanto il trattato privilegiato da Formisano, ma anche un giornale di bordo benché 
succinto, com’é facile constatare e come il traduttore latino e Ramusio, 0 qualcuno 
al posto suo, lo notano molto puntualmente. 


Succinte tantam rerum capita scribemus et res digniores annotatione et memoria, 
que a me vel vise vel audite in hoc novo mundo fuere; _[...] poste da parte le 
piccole cose, racontaremo solamente le grandi che siano degne di esser intese, e 
quelle che noi personalemente avemo vedute over abbiamo udite per relazione di 
uomini degni di fede, e inoltre di queste parti adunque nuovamente ritrovate ora 
ne diremo pil cose diligentemente e senza alcuna bugia. 


La conclusione viene quasi da sola, paradossale a livello di lingua e di mes- 
saggio ideologico: Michele de Cuneo e Amerigo Vespucci scrivono la scoperta nella 
stessa forma letteraria, una lettera che si apre immediatamente o che si trasforma 
eventualmente alla fine in diario, in relazione scientifica o se si preferisce in 
trattato. 

Tengo a fare ancora una precisazione a proposito della tesi di Formisano sulla 
Lettera delle isole nuovamente trovate in quattro suoi viaggi, pubblicata a Firenze 
nel 1505 e dedicata a Soderini. Formisano sostiene che si tratta di una lettera che 
mescola abilmente diario di bordo e trattato scientifico. Secondo me bisogna tener 


210 MARZIANO GUGLIELMINETTI 


conto del fatto che Vespucci, in questa lettera, vuole prima di tutto offrire un 
ritratto idealizzato di se stesso, che non sia un ritratto astratto, al fine di provare 
ai Fiorentini che non é pit’ un mercante ma che é diventato un sapiente. In 
conseguenza di cid, questa lettera diventa una lettera apologetica, quasi un’auto- 
biografia parziale, o per meglio dire un ritratto di se stesso nel momento delle 
conversione non dal peccato (Vespucci non é un discepolo tardivo di sant’ A- 
gostino), ma piuttosto dalla pratica dei “beni caduci e transitorii” della fortuna (“la 
mercanzia”, gli affari dei mercanti fiorentini) alla sperimentazione di una “cosa 
pit laudabile e ferma: ... andare a vedere parte del mondo e sue maraviglie”. 

Nulla di simile accade nella altre tre lettere che ci sono pervenute di Vespucci, 
datate fra il 1500 e il 1501, per le quali io sottoscrivo ben volentieri le note di 
Formisano che le chiamano “lettere familiari”, non nel senso ciceroniano o 
petrarchesco del termine, ma piuttosto pensando agli scritti dei mercanti fiorentini, 
i Mercanti umanisti di un eccellente libro di Christian Bec. Vespucci ci da dunque 
qui l’esempio di una scrittura paratattica, come nei “libri di ricordi” (il libro di 
Marco Polo e le note dei portolani portoghesi sono anche citati da Formisano). La 
prima di queste lettere, inviata da Siviglia il 18 0 il 28 luglio 1500 a Lorenzo di 
Pier Francesco de’ Medici, contiene purtuttavia alcune note personali che si 
accordano meglio con il ritratto apologetico della lettera a Soderini. Penso al 
ricordo degli studi astronomici intorno alle stelle del polo antartico, e all’identifica- 
zione delle quattro stelle del Purgatorio di Dante con la Croce del Sud nell’emi- 
sfero australe: 


Io, come desideroso d’esser l’atore che segnassi a la stella del firmamento dello 
altro polo, perde’ molte volto il sonno di notte in contemplare il movimento delle 
stelle dello altro polo, per segnar qual d’essi tenessi minor movimento et che fussi 
piu presso al firmamento; e non potetti, con quante male notti ebbi, e con quanti 
strumenti usai - che fu il quadrante e |’astrolabio -, segnar istella che tenessi men 
che X gradi di movimento a |’intorno del firmamento; di modo che non restai 
satisatto in me medesimo di nominar nessuna essere il polo del meridione a causa 
del gran circulo che faceva del firmamento. 


Potrebbe essere un’osservazione del Convivio, ma Vespucci pensa piuttosto 
alla situazione iniziale del Purgatorio: 


E mentre che in questo andavo, mi ricordai d’un detto del nostro poeta Dante, 
del qual fa menzione nel primo capitolo del Purgatorio, quando finge di salir di 
questo emisperio e trovarsi nello altro. 


Ecco la ragione del raffronto: 


secondo che mi pare, il Poeta “volle” descriver per le ‘quattro stelle’ el polo dello 
altro firmamento, e non mi diffido fino a qui che quello che dice non salga verita: 





La forma dell’America pail 


perché io notai 4 stelle figurate come una mandorla, che tenevano poco movimento, 
e se Dio mi da vita e salute, spero presto tornare in quello emisperio, € non tornar 
sanza notare il polo. 


Pit di vent’anni dopo, 1’8 luglio 1524, dal porto di Dieppe, mentre si trovava 
ancora sul bastimento della “Dauphine” , Giovanni da Verrazzano scrive una lettera 
a Francesco I, per informarlo del suo viaggio nell’ America settentrionale, dalla 

baia di Hudson, in cui é sbarcato, alle coste del Massachussets, alla regione del 

Maryland e all’isola di Terranova. La relazione ha la forma di una lettera, inviata 
a due mercanti fiorentini che vivevano a Lione, ma il destinatario é il re. E 
_pressappoco la situazione formale del Mundus novus, e io rimpiango di dovermi 

fermare qui, vittima della mia scelta metodologica; una volta definita la forma, devo 
_passare ad altro argomento, mentre questo testo delizioso meriterebbe di essere 
_ studiato a parte (ne esiste una versione pubblicata nel corpus e annotata dall’autore 

stesso: queste note ci trasportano direttamente nel laboratorio culturale che gli é 

proprio). Mi limiterO dunque a precisare la ragione del mio giudizio molto 

favorevole: la lettera di Verrazzano non é in latino, ma ci fa comprendere, quando 
si tratta del battesimo dei luoghi nuovi dell’ America del Nord, che anche per un 
uomo che non possiede una cultura classica é molto importante poter dire 11 nuovo 
impiegando non il vecchio ma 1’eterno, cioé il linguaggio della mitologia pagana. 
In breve, |’ Arcadia esiste persino in America, “per la bellezza de li arbori”, e 

| poco importa che si trovi l4 un uomo selvaggio che non é un pastore modellato 
_ sui versi di Virgilio o di Teocrito. Ecco perché Verrazzano non é un epigono di 

Vespucci (@ un cosmografo come il suo predecessore fiorentino). Non si puo dire 

la stessa cosa, sempre sul piano formale, dei mercanti toscani che sono andati piu 

tardi nell’America del Sud, in Pert soprattutto, affascinati per la maggior parte 
dall’oro. Cito gli autori delle lettere “familiari” - sarebbe meglio dire 

“domestiche” - di Giuliano Fiaschi (Lettera dal Venezuela, 1-2 giugno 1534), 
| dell’autore anonimo che scrive da Zhaval (25 settembre 1535), di Giovanni 

Nicolozzi (Lettera dal Messico, 10 giugno 1536), di Niccold del Benino (Lettera 
| dal Peri, 15 maggio 1564). Quest’ ultima, tradotta in tempo utile dallo spagnolo 
| all’italiano (cid che non avviene per le traduzioni del diario di Colombo e la 
relazione del francescano Marco da Nizza, che si trovano nell’opera di cui sto 
| parlando), é indirizzata ad un altro fiorentino, Galeotto Cei, che dopo essersi visto 
| confiscare il patrimonio, si era fatto mercante di schiavi in Africa e poi era partito 
| per 1’America del Sud. Quando scrive, Niccol6 non dimentica che si indirizza ad 
un lettore per il quale la relazione di viaggio (si potrebbe parlare del libro di 

Galeotto) @ diventata uno strumento del cambiamento di statuto dell’autore, che 

non @ pit’ mercante ma uomo di lettere, come se lo sarebbero forse augurati 
_ Vespucci e Verrazzano. Niccold fa allora il pit grande spazio alle osservazioni che 

lo concernono, lui e i suoi affari; parla prima di tutto della guerra che @ scoppiata 
fra gli Spagnoli all’arrivo del viceré Blasco Nufiez, e che egli stesso ha descritta 


212 MARZIANO GUGLIELMINETTI 


in una Verdadera relacién del 1549. 

Non si pud in alcun modo porre, fra queste lettere fiorentine, due lettere del 
nostro corpus, firmate da due uomini di chiesa: i Fratelli Minori Osservanti Fran- 
cesco del Busco e Francesco Allé, che entrambi si sono recati nel Messico per 
predicare il Vengelo agli Indiani e che esprimono tutti e due i loro timori di non 
essere all’altezza dell’enormita del compito di evangelizzazione. Vi é tuttavia una 
grande differenza fra i sue osservanti: il primo racconta nel 1531 cose verosimili, 
vicine a cid che é stato scritto fino ad allora sui selvaggi e i loro costumi, mentre 
il secondo, alcuni anni dopo, capovolge i dati abituali dei racconti dei missionari 
cercando di far credere ai suoi confratelli che i selvaggi sono delle brave persone, 
i paesaggi americani meravigliosi, e cosi via. Pit. che una lettera swasoria, la lettera 
di Francesco Allé diventa una lettera di imbonitore. Diventare scrittore della 
scoperta e essere riconosciuto come tale non é il solo scopo di Galeotto Cei. 
Mariarosa Masoero ha ragione di far notare che questo ruolo é stato ricoperto 
all’epoca di Colombo da Pietro Martire d’Anghiera, lo scrittore per eccellenza 
dell’impresa di Colombo, colui che conosce gli artifici del mestiere e che impiega 
la lingua pit ricca di retorica, il latino. Se si studia la versione volgare dei primi 
capitoli dell’opera di Pietro Martire (De orbe novo, 1516), traduzione fatta dal 
diplomatico veneziano Angelo Trevisan (del quale Angela Caracciolo Arico ha da 
poco pubblicato le Lettere sul Nuovo Mondo, Granada 1501), ci si accorge che é 
sufficiente cambiare lingua 0, se si preferisce, abbandonare il latino per perdere 
immediatamente in preziosismo letterario. 

Restiamo nel campo di Mariarosa Masoero e, prima di passare al caso sor- 
prendente di Galeotto Cei, fermiamoci sulla Relazione del viaggio intorno al mondo 
di Antonio Pigafetta (1523-1524): mi domando se sia 0 non sia un’opera redatta 
da uno che é diventato a buon diritto scrittore, al ritorno dell’impresa di Magella- 
no. Dedicando il libro a Philippe de Villiers, gran maestro dell’ordine monastico 
e militare dei Cavallieri Ospedalieri di Rodi, Pigafetta definisce il suo pubblico in 
questo modo: 


molti curiosi [...], che non solamente se contentano de sapere e intendere li grandi 
e admirabili cose che Dio me ha concesso de vedere e patire ne la infrascripta mia 
longa e pericolosa navigazione, ma ancora vogliono sapere li mezi e modi e vie 
che ho tenuto ad andarvi, non prestando quella integra fede a l’exito, se prima 
non hanno bona certeza de |’inizio. 


Mentre scrive dunque, egli pensa ad un pubblico che non si soddisfa pit dei 
racconti di viaggio pieni di mirabilia (Mandeville, ecc.) ma che vuole rivivere 
dettagliatamente l’itinerario del viaggio, al fine di poter accordare la sua fiducia 
all’autore del libro di viaggio. Pigafetta sa bene di avere di predecessori, ma pensa 
di poter avere un posto al loro fianco e di poter conquistare la gloria che é il 
principale motivo che spinge un uomo di formazione umanistica a scrivere: 


La forma dell’America 213 


Avendo io avuto gran notisia per molti libri letti e per diverse personne, [...] de 
le grandi e stupende cose del mare Occeanno, deliberai, con bonna grazia de la 
Magesta Cezaria e del prefacto signor mio - monsignor Francesco Chieregato -, 
far experienza di me e andare a vedere quelle cose che potessero dare alguna 
satisfazione a me medesmo e potessero parturmi qualche nome apresso la posterita. 


Si potrebbe tuttavia non essere pienamente convinti che questa giustificazione, 
simile a quella di Vespucci nel Mundus Novus, sia all’origine della scrittura - 
origine corrente del diario di bordo -; cid non toglie che Pigafetta, ricomponendo 
il suo diario per trasformarlo in libro, ha dovuto accorgersi che era passato nella 
categoria degli scrittori quasi ufficiali, scriptori, per tornare al termine impiegato 
da Niccolo per Galeotto e per se stesso. E benché faccia professione di modestia 
riguardo al suo libreto voluto dal papa Clemente VII (“dissemi che li sarebbe grato 
li copiasse tute quelle cose aveva viste e passate nella navigazione”), tutto cid fa 
parte del gioco letterario. 

Per cid che concerne la natura di questa relazione, cioé la questione di sapere 
se essa é storica o autobiografica, bisogna tener conto del fatto che Pigafetta, alla 
fine della sua dedica, riafferma il principio che si tratta del suo “piccolo libro”, 
di “tute le vigilie, faticche e peregrinazioni mie”, e non d’altri, in particolare di 
Magellano. Ma non ci sarebbe alcuna giustificazione per poter parlare di autobio- 
grafia a questa data: il solo modello possibile, l’epistola Posteritati di Petrarca 
é evidentemente tutt’altra cosa (il suo itinerario latino a Gerusalemme é abilmente 
tessuto di altre relazioni di pellegrinaggio e non é dunque un modello per Pigafetta). 
Che si pud dunque proporre per la forma della Relazione di Pigafetta? Credo che 
sia la novita della materia americana che ha provocato il cambiamento del ruolo 
dello scrittore, cosi come |’impossibilita per Pigafetta di restare all’interno della 
lettera pid o meno “allargata”. Non é né mercante né fiorentino e si é trovato al 
fianco di un capitano eccezionale per vivere un’esperienza anch’essa eccezionale. 
Ha tentato di dotarsi di una forma che fosse perfettamente conveniente a tutto cid: 
se si guarda da vicino la Relazione, si constata che Pigafetta inserisce, apparente- 
mente come é d’uso in un diario di bordo, delle informazioni sui costumi dei 
selvaggi, sui vegetali e gli animali; in effetti fino alla morte di Magellano, cioé 
fino alla meta del libro, cid che anima la narrazione dei fatti raccontati nel giornale, 
é il carattere religioso e militare della spedizione quasi una crociata, il cui “capita- 
nio generale” é il protagonista assoluto, poiché destinato a sacrificare la propria 
vita; la prospettiva della prima parte del libro é dunque religiosa. La croce é il 
simbolo che stabilisce un legame potente fra Magellano e Cristo. Dopo la morte 
del capo della crociata, il tono sublime che il diario aveva, quando il protagonista 
efa in vita, si attenua e le informazioni fornite potrebbero ora essere apprezzate 
dai mercanti fiorentini. 

Per terminare con questo argomento, consiglio di leggere come pietra di para- 


214 MARZIANO GUGLIELMINETTI 


gone per comprendere la Relazione di Pigafetta, il testo in latino - e non la sua 
traduzione approssimativa proposta nel nostro corpus -, dell’ Itinerarium ad re- 
giones sub aequinoctiali plaga constitutas, redatto dal primo vescovo di Santo- 
Domingo, Alessandro Geraldini. Questo libro viene pubblicato quasi un secolo 
dopo, nel 1631 a Roma, all’epoca della contro-riforma, e non senza motivo poiché 
si tratta di una storia santa in cui lo scrittore fa intervenire Dio e i demoni senza 
risparmiarsi personalmente, come si vede nel discorso del libro XIII contro gli 
antropofagi, comparati al personaggio mitologico di Tieste; ma occorre notare che 
tutto questo accade durante la mattinata quando gli infedeli sono gia lontani, dopo 
un banchetto nel corso del quale il buon vescovo non é riuscito a convincerli e li 
ha visti per di pid ubriacarsi senza ritegno del suo vino! 

La storia santa presuppone una storia profana, ed ecco ora il testo comple- 
mentare a quello del vescovo di Santo Domingo: le Jstorie del figlio di Colombo, 
Fernando, “nelle quali s’ha particolare e vera relazione della vita e de’ fatti 
dell’ Ammiraglio D. Cristoforo Colombo, suo padre, e dello scoprimento ch’egli 
fece delle Indie Occidentali, dette Mondo Nuovo” (Venezia, 1571). Questo libro 
sarebbe la versione in lingua volgare di un originale spagnolo scomparso, attribuito 
a Alfonso de Ulloa, che d’altra parte aveva gia composto in italiano una biografia 
dell’imperatore Carlo Quinto e che lavorava da lungo tempo per gli editori 
veneziani. Valeria Bertolucci Pizzorusso, la cui autorita negli studi sulla letteratura 
di viaggio é ben fondata, e da lungo tempo (il suo lavoro sul Livre de Marco Polo 
é il punto di partenza di qualsiasi studio sulla forma delle relazioni di viaggio), 
sostiene che le Jstorie sono senza alcun dubbio, la biografia umanistica di un uomo 
illustre: “la vita di un uomo illustre”, una forma nuova nella tipologia di scrittura 
dei viaggi. Sono del tutto d’accordo con lei e aggiungo questa osservazione: sulla 
biografia del padre si innesta sicuramente un’autobiografia parziale del figlio. Ci 
sarebbe dunque un gioco di scambi che meriterebbe di essere studiato pid in 
profondita e tenendo conto del parere di Bachtin, secondo il quale la biografia 
risponde essa stessa a un bisogno di autobiografia. 

Prima di trarre delle conclusioni definitive, bisogna notare che nel “Proemio” 
delle Istorie Colombo junior tiene a precisare che rispettera la verita delle cose, 
cioé che egli non é come la maggior parte degli storici i quali “aggrandiscono 
alcune cose 0 tacciono quelle che giustamente dovevano scrivere con molta 
particolarita”. Egli non seppellira la verita dopo averla ristabilita grazie alle carte 
di suo padre e alla sua propria esperienza. Sotto questo riguardo, |’Jstoria del 
Mondo Nuovo di Girolamo Benzoni, il Las Casas italiano “si parva licet componere 
magnis” (Venezia, 1565 e 1572), lascia molto a desiderare. Ma la questione non 
& qui di sapere se certuni dei nostri scrittori dicono la verita (lascio ben volentieri 
questa cura agli storici di questo periodo storico); mi limito a constatare che 
Benzoni si riferisce, come Colombo junior, alla propria esperienza (cid che lascia 
spazio all’autobiografia), ma anche agli “uomini degni di fede”, parlando delle 
“molte cose rare e nove” accolte nel suo libro (non tutte, solamente le “pit 


La forma dell’America 25 


notabili”). La novita risiede piuttosto nel ricorso alle immagini (“figure”), per 
illustrare, per esempio, come gli Indiani “fanno il pane, senza frumento, e vino 
senza uva” (un paradosso che annuncia il Barocco). In questo modo un’altra verita 
si sovrappone a quella delle parole, contrariamente ai giudizi di colore che a piu 
riprese, hanno accusato Benzoni di aver copiato da opere anteriori, soprattutto 
spagnole, come quelle di G6mara, Oviedo, ecc. André Thévet, denunciatore ac- 
canito dei furti letterari di Benzoni, fa nello stesso tempo notare l’accanto anti- 
spagnolo del suo libro. Come ha scritto Rosario Romeo in un libro sempre attuale, 
Le scoperte americane nella coscienza italiana del Cinquecento (1954), \’ Istoria 
del Mondo Nuovo si costruisce attorno ad una tesi polemica, quella del fallimento 
della conversione spirituale degli Indiani, tentata dai frati e dai preti inviati dai so- 
vrani spagnoli al fianco dei conquistadores. E il vero io dell’autore che prende 
allora posto nella storia e modifica i rapporti tra il racconto storico pil o meno 
personale (cioé garantito dalla persona dell’autore), e le informazioni sugli uomini, 
le piante, gli animali, ecc. 

Confesso alla fine di aver costruito tutto questo discorso per permettere ad un 
uomo sconosciuto fino ad oggi, Galeotto Cei, mercante di schiavi e scriptor di cui 
ho annunciato |’apparizione, di occupare degnamente il suo posto fra gli scrittori 
della scoperta. Francesco Surdich, che ha pubblicato i suoi scritti autobiografici 
esumandoli dal British Museum, si é soprattutto occupato di sottolineare la sua 
importanza nella storia delle esplorazioni. In effetti Galeotto, tra l’anno 1537 e 
l’anno 1553, ha attraversato quasi tutta 1’America spagnola, da Santo Domingo 
a Bogota: partito povero, ne é ritornato povero malgrado 1’oro, le perle, la fattoria 
e il numeroso bestiame che aveva posseduto. Per comprendere la personalita di 
Galeotto, bisogna uscire dall’antologia della sua relazione di viaggio, che Surdich 
ha preparato per il nostro corpus, perché si corre il rischio di scambiarlo per uno 
scrittore naturalista che si interessa di prodotti esotici, di frutti, di pesci, ecc. 
Certamente é uno scrittore naturalista, capace di disegnare gli oggetti delle sue 
notizie alimentari, botaniche, zoologiche, ma é ben pit di questo. Per convincerse- 
ne, é sufficiente leggere la raccolta completa dei suoi scritti, pubblicata sempre 
da Surdich presso Bulzoni, partendo dal “libro di famiglia” che Galeotto eredita 
dall’uso dei mercanti fiorentini del XIV e del XV secolo. Penso a Buonaccorso 
Pitti, tradotto recentemente da A. Fiorato, a Giovanni di Pagolo Morelli, edito da 
V. Branca, a Goro Dati che piaceva a D’ Annunzio, a Giovanni Rucellai pubblicato 
da A. Perosa; in una parola penso ai mercanti scrittori evocati in precedenza. Ma 
devo subito precisare che questo fiorentino, mercante di prodotti di un commercio 
nuovo, é talmente cosciente di essere lo scrittore di questo libro di famiglia che, 
quando ha terminato di raccogliere le informazioni sui suoi avi e i suoi parenti, 
si ferma un istante, passa provvisoriamente alla terza persona per presentarsi in 
data della sua nascita: “Galeotto di Giovanbaptista Cei, scriptore di queste cose, 
nacque come si é detto, a 29 d’aprile 1513, a ore nove, che secondo li astrologhi 
che contano il giorno da mezzodi nacqui a 28 d’aprile”. E pur vero che egli ritorna 


216 MARZIANO GUGLIELMINETTI 


ben presto alla prima persona, proseguendo cosi il suo racconto personale malgrado 
la tentazione molto forte di considerarsi come soggetto di una storia esemplare. 
A questo proposito, dopo averci per la quinta volta ripetuto che aveva perso tutto 
il denaro imprestatogli dal re di Francia Carlo IX, Galeotto scrive ancora: 


Yddio voglia che ve le cavi et lo pongo qui per memoria, perché si vegha la 
tragedia della vita mia come € passata et perché ciascuno pigli essempio dal- 
l’impacciarsi com principi andando dricto a guadagni grossi e forse grassi. 


In questo libro di famiglia, il viaggio in America alla ricerca della ricchezza, é rias- 
sunto e i lettori (cioé i figli, secondo il patto autobiografico tipico di questi rapporti) 
sono pregati di far riferimento al “libretto fatto di detto viaggio”, dove “le cose 
viste e passate in questo [...] viaggio d’India sono scripte per minuto 
particularmente”. Galeotto @ dunque considerato, e si considera lui stesso come 
scriptor grazie a questo libro che contiene, come abbiamo detto, le “cose minute”, 
cioé la relazione dettagliata del viaggio, come solo chi I’ha vissuto puo farla. In 
questo caso preciso si é fuori dalla storia, al modo di Colombo junior e di Benzoni, 
senza per questo tornare alle lettere di Vespucci, oppure alla relazione di Pigafetta 
(quanto alle lettere e ai libri dei missionari, vi é un abisso da colmare, data la poca 
stima che le loro funzioni ispirano a Galeotto). 

Nella dedica, il nostro scriptor confessa francamente che al suo ritorno dalle 
Indie, non soltanto le persone malevole e i suoi nemici, ma persino i suoi amici 
lo biasimano o ridono di lui perché é ritornato povero dal Peri. Essi ignorano che 
numerosi sono coloro che sono rimasti e resteranno sempre laggit in condizioni 
di vita miserevoli: 


vi affermo che de cento vanno a India se ne perdono novantocto, di modo che mi 
contento di essere tornato nel numero de dua per cento con la mia poverta, 
mangiando per vivere. 


Di conseguenza scrivere sara, prima di tutto, 


porre scripte quelle cose mi sono accadute in processo di 14 anni che con Pietro 
Aretino - é la prima volta che uno scrittore famoso viene citato nella nostra 
letteratura di viaggio - posso dire avere gittati via, secondo al giuditio di quelli 
che giudicono el tutto dalle richeze et che senza esse si morrieno di fame in forno 
di stiacciate. 


Il sarcasmo di questa dichiarazione deriva dal repertorio degli argomenti uma- 
nistici utilizzati per la difesa della poesia, a partire da Petrarca e da Boccaccio, 
benché qui si parli meno degli uomini e pid delle piante, degli animali, dei monti, 
delle campagne, dei fiumi dell’America del Sud. A questo proposito Galeotto 
rimpiange di essere partito senza alcuno strumento, né carta, né mappamondo, né 


La forma dell’America 217 


sfera, né Tolomeo, “che ogni poco di pratica ne avessi auto, arei possuto fare un 
compendio di molte cose utile et dilectevole”. Cid che rimane é un protocollo di 
cid che conserva nella sua memoria, vale a dire un’annotazione abbreviata ma 
completa delle cose che sono accadute. Allora e per l’ultima volta, la relazione 
del viaggio di Galeotto prende la forma di un racconto autobiografico, quello delle 
sue peripezie in cui entrano in successione brani probabilmente ricavati da un diario 
€ notizie scientifiche o pseudoscientifiche, osservazioni sulla botanica e la zoologia 
dei paesi d’ America attraversati. 

Bisogna sottolineare che non vié demarcazione molto netta fra queste due parti 
del testo: per esempio sul raccolto di Santo Domingo, che racchiude una denuncia 
molto chiara del modo di vivere pigro e violento dei colonizzatori, delle loro donne 
e dei meticci, s’innesta senza alcun legame evidente né alcuna volontaria interru- 
zione, un lungo passaggio sulla “iucca radice” e gli altri semi, radici e erbe di 
quest’isola e delle isole vicine (mais naturalmente, patate, ecc.). Pit avanti 
l’autore parla delle mucche, degli asini, delle pecore, dei pesci, ecc., ma anche 
della canna da zucchero e di molti altri alberi esotici; infine evoca le perle e il 
modo di pescarle. Si ritorna allora al diario di viaggio che prosegue per numerose 
pagine fino all’arrivo in Peri; 1a, l’autore ricomincia a parlare delle erbe, degli 
alberi, ecc., ma anche di religione e di medicina, secondo l’esempio che stavano 
dando gli storici spagnoli, in particolare Oviedo. II diario si conclude la domenica 
delle Palme dell’anno 1553. 

Approfitto di questa conclusione opportuna per chiudere anch’io la mia 
relazione. 


Universita degli Studi, Torino 


BIBLIOGRAFIA 


I testi di viaggio citati si leggono nell’antologia Nuovo Mondo. Gli Italiani 1492/1565, 
acura di P. Colloe P. L. Crovetto, Torino, Einaudi, 1991. Altre edizioni tenute presenti 
sono le seguenti: L. Firpo, Prime relazioni di navigator italiani sulla scoperta dell’America 
(Colombo, Vespucci, Verazzano), Torino, Utet, 1966; A. Vespucci, /] Mondo Nuovo, acura 
di M. Pozzi, Milano, Serra e Riva, 1984; A. Pigafetta, Viaggio attorno al mondo, a cura 
di M. Masoero, Rovereto, Longo, 1987; G. Cei, Viaggio e relazione delle Indie (1539- 
1553), acura di F. Surdich, Roma, Bulzoni, 1992; A. Trevisan, Lettere sul nuovo mondo, 
Granada 1501, acura di A. Caracciolo Aricd, Venezia, Albrizzi, 1993. I saggi critici citati 
sono i seguenti: R. Romeo, Le scoperte americane nella coscienza italiana del Cinquecento, 
Milano-Napoli, Ricciardi, 1954; Ch. Bec, Les marchands écrivains: affaires et humanisme 
a Florence: 1375-1434, Paris-La Haye, Mouton, 1967; M. Guglielminetti, Memoria e 
scrittura. L’autobiografia da Dante a Cellini, Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 


DARIA PEROCCO 


Le parole di un cartografo: 
Giacomo Gastaldi e 
la Universale descrittione del mondo 


Al contrario degli uomini del Rinascimento, quelli del Medioevo non sanno 
guardare, ma son sempre pronti ad ascoltare e a credere tutto cid che si dice loro. 
E cosi, nel corso dei loro viaggi, si danno loro a bere racconti meravigliosi, ed 
essi credono di aver visto cid che hanno appreso, sul posto certamente, ma per 
sentito dire. Soprattutto, nutriti in partenza di leggende che ritengono verita, portano 
con séi loro miraggie la credula immaginazione materializza i loro sogni in scenari 
che li allontanano quanto basta dal loro ambiente perché, pit ancora che a casa 
loro, siano quei sognatori ad occhi aperti che sono stati gli uomini del Medioevo. 
(Le Goff, p. 261) 


In questa diversita di atteggiamento, di maniera di “guardare” (0, meglio di 
“ascoltare”) cid che circonda il viaggiatore si pud riassumere tutta la diversita tra 
la relazione di viaggio medievale e quella rinascimentale. E di qui, come conseguenza 
prima, viene |’enorme differenza che si manifesta nella stesura delle piante, delle 
carte dei mondi lontani, che rappresentano graficamente il prodotto pid immediato 
e reale degli atteggiamenti di coloro che ritornano e raccontano. Una cartografia 
che cominci a somigliare a quella moderna, che voglia cioé registrare una realta 
inmaniera coscientemente vicina all’ obiettivita, comunque essa sia, é possibile solo 
di fronte ad unatteggiamento disincantato, frutto di una narrazione di chi ha “visto” 
e non “sentito”. Si tratta di un atteggiamento che sara adottato solo per gradi, se 
ancora in pieno Rinascimento noi troviamo le tavole geografiche concepite 
essenzialmente per dar notizia di localita conosciute e rinomate, di luoghi famosi 
e di posti celebri: é da ricordare il caso del Ruscelli, che nella sua Geografia (1561), 
aggiungendo a quelle tolemaiche tavole in cui sono descritte le “Nuove terre”, si 
scusa se queste ultime sono cosi povere di localita note o famose. Gli spazi 
coattamente lasciati bianchi dall’assenza delle citta sono riempiti da scene frutto 
della fantasia e delle descrizioni dei viaggiatori, scene di villaggi e di nti 
cannibalistici (Tucci, p. 34). Una specie di horror vacui sembra pervadere certi 
cartografi di fronte alla descrizione di terre prive di localita o monumenti celebri 
(o perlomeno noti), mentre paiono particolarmente entusiasti quando disegnano e 
registrano i nomi delle citta e dei paesi italiani, riempiendo tutto lo spazio che 1 
confini del paese possono contenere. 

E quindi in una condizione descrittiva in cui il cartografo @ ancora a meta tra 
l’obiettivo e freddo annotatore che espone i risultati dei calcoli matematici e l’uomo 
di cultura che vuole esprimere le sue conoscenze che si colloca la produzione 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 





Giacomo Gastaldi e la Universale descrittione del mondo 219 


cartografica veneziana del medio cinquecento. Situazione di estremo interesse per 
chi studi la cultura del tempo, farcita e ricchissima di connessioni tra una disciplina 
e l’altra. Ma una situazione in cui l’elemento fondamentale pare essere la ricerca 
di un vero che non contrasti con la cultura gia assodata, gia sicura, data dalle 
conoscenze degli antichi: tutto cid che viene registrato deve accordarsi con i testi 
classici, Tolomeo e Strabone in primis. Siamo infatti negli anni in cui ancora i 
cartografi, pur registrando notizie delle Americhe, si trovano di fronte al grave 
problema di come inserire queste terre nell’ Asia di Tolomeo, negli stessi anni che 
vedono apparire, da una parte un alto numero di ristampe di Tolomeo e di Strabone, 
dall’altra un altrettanto accentuato interesse per le relazioni e le notizie che 
provengono dalle terre nuove. Sede dello sviluppo di questi interessi é Venezia, 
che, a meta del Cinquecento, si trova ad essere il pit importante centro tipografico 
e cartografico d’Europa'. In questa Venezia viene ad operare Giacomo Gastaldi, 
provenendo dal Piemonte (é lui stesso a darci indicazione della sua regione d’ origine 
“firmando” una delle prime carte che di lui ci sono rimaste, quella della Spagna 
del 1544). Sarebbe di estremo interesse riuscire ad appurare quali siano state le 
basi culturali del nostro prima del suo arrivo a Venezia: ma le attivita negli anni 
piemontesi, nonostante le ricerche di Stefano Grande (pp. 1-5), rimangono molto 
misteriose, al punto che non si é riusciti ad accertare con precisione neppure la 
data di nascita. L’unico frutto delle ricerche del Grande é dato da elementi negativi, 
che obbligano quindi a dichiarare |’assenza di documentazione per il Gastaldi per 
tutto il periodo piemontese, sia da un punto di vista strettamente archivistico e di 
ricerca che di fonti pid legate al mondo culturale e letterario. E invece, fortunatamen- 
te, abbastanza ricca la documentazione per quel che riguarda il periodo veneziano, 
periodo che in realta risulta quello di maggior interesse, dato che @ a Venezia che 
il Gastaldi esplica e sviluppa ogni sua attivita, stabilendosi e lavorando nella citta 
lagunare fino alla morte. Che perd continuasse, pur dopo numerosi anni di 
permanenza veneziana, a tenere molto alla sua origine @ dimostrato dall’uso 
frequentissimo dell’appellativo Piemontese che egli fa seguire alla firma. La 
segnalazione regionale viene attestata dalle prime carte a lui attribuibili fino alle 
ultime relazioni redatte come funzionario alle acque e alle lagune. In assenza, 
dunque, di attestazioni sicure sulla sua prima formazione, ricopre importanza 
notevole la frequenza, a Venezia, dell’ambiente “geografico” incentrato intorno 
al Ramusio. Anzi, proprio in casa del Ramusio egli viveva, assoldato non solo 
come cartografo, ma soprattutto come istruttore dell’ unico figlio di Giovan Battista, 


1. E importante ricordare che Venezia in questo periodo risulta essere il centro verso cui 
convergono le notizie politiche di prima mano (soprattutto per i paesi orientali). Conveniva, 
infatti, anche economicamente, mandare “messi” che prendessero informazioni presso la 
Repubblica piuttosto che inviarli direttamente nei luoghi interessati (Cfr. R. Bragantini, Il 
riso sotto il velame, Firenze, Olschki, 1978, p. 139). 


220 DARIA PEROCCO 


Paolo. La casa era frequentata anche da personaggi come Fracastoro e, soprattutto, 
Bembo, ormai divenuto per fama una auctoritas letteraria e consacrato dalla 
Serenissima con la nomina a storiografo ufficiale della Repubblica. Anche se non 
Si pud appurare una frequentazione sicura e costante tra il vecchio, importante 
personaggio Bembo ed il pit: giovane, pit umile e, per tanti lati, cosi diverso 
Gastaldi, @ assolutamente certa la conoscenza e la stima non solo da parte del 
Gastaldi, ma anche e soprattutto del ben pid famoso Bembo. Ci6 si dice perché, 
a voler essere ostinatamente pignoli, la prima data che appuri una sicura presenza 
del Gastaldi a Venezia é una richiesta di privilegio per la stampa di un “lunario 
perpetuo” effettuata nel 1539. E ben vero anche che Bembo proprio in quest’anno 
viene nominato cardinale e trascorre gran parte del suo tempo a Roma, dove si 
trasferisce da Venezia nell’ottobre, lasciando la cura della casa, dei suoi interessi 
e€, soprattutto, dei due figli rimastigli, al fedele Cola Bruno. Ese, pur dopo la morte 
di quest’ultimo (maggio 1542), egli pud affidare la gestione generale dei suoi interessi 
ad un altro amico sicuro e fidato, Flaminio Tomarozzo, é pero costretto a seguire 
l’educazione dei figli pit da vicino; ed infatti, nell’estate del 1543, dopo aver seguito 
Paolo III a Bologna per l’incontro del papa con |’imperatore, riesce ad ottenere 
da questi il permesso di ritornare a Venezia e di rimanervi alcuni mesi. Egli deve 
infatti, tra le altre cose pratiche che lo attendono, concludere in maniera adeguata 
al suo rango il matrimonio della figlia Elena, che proprio in quel 1543 va sposa 
a Pietro Gradenigo, un nobile veneziano amante delle lettere che continuera ad avere 
strettissimi rapporti con il suocero fino alla morte del cardinale. E certo che in questo 
ultimo periodo veneziano le frequentazioni di Bembo con il Ramusio, l’amico di 
sempre, erano state particolarmente fitte: di conseguenza non é difficile ipotizzare 
anche una serie di incontri con il giovane cartografo che a casa di Ramusio viveva 
e che Giovan Battista teneva in considerazione ed amava come persona di famiglia: 
ed infatti nell’epistolografia bembesca degli anni seguenti le allusioni a Gastaldi 
sono fatte come a persona con cui aveva assoluta familiarita. Ma a noi interessa 
particolarmente sottolineare che, al di 1a della conoscenza diretta e della frequent- 
azione del personaggio Bembo da parte del Gastaldi, cosa che é assolutamente 
appurata ed accertata, cid che riteniamo fondamentale é rilevare la presenza di una 
impronta culturale di stampo bembesco che impregna e che riempie la casa e la 
cultura di Ramusio e nella quale viene “allevato” il Gastaldi stesso. Questa compare 
soprattutto nei testi scritti lasciati da Gastaldi, che sono (purtroppo) numericamente 
pochi e devono spesso essere cercati a latere (in senso letterale oltre che figurato!) 
delle carte geografiche. Gastaldi, in poche parole, non si presenta mai, giustamente, 
come un letterato, si sente un cartografo e come tale opera; ma é un cartografo 
nuovo, che ha capito benissimo |’ importanza fondamentale e quasi la necessita della 
parola per illustrare la pianta, dell’elenco dei nomi di fianco ad essa, delle 
spiegazioni il pit esatte e filologicamente corrette possibile delle denominazioni 
geografiche che sulla carta vengono riportate. Certo é che anche il Ramusio, che 
pure a Gastaldi affida (in un certo qual modo) la stesura visiva ed illustrativa dei 


Giacomo Gastaldi e la Universale descrittione del mondo 2241 


suoi testi scritti, non nomina molto spesso il nostro nella parte che delle Navigazioni 
e viaggi & in realta totalmente sua: le introduzioni alle diverse narrazioni ed il 
discorso sul commercio delle spezie. Gastaldi non compare nel testo ramusiano 
come diretto responsabile di idee ed opinioni che pure gli sono universalmente 
riconosciute, come il problema dello stretto di Anian che “si riteneva dividesse il 
Nuovo Mondo dal continente euroasiatico, dando accesso all’Oceano Pacifico da 
settentrione... La coincidenza con lo Stretto di Bering é del tutto casuale. Lo stretto 
doveva aprirsi a circa 60° N, e doveva il suo nome ad una erronea lettura del Libro 
di Marco Polo” (Milanesi, in Ramusio, VI, 1179, n. 24). 

Il Ramusio continua a stimare e ad “usare” sempre di pit il suo cartografo, 
aumentando, di volume in volume, il numero delle piante allegate ai testi. Ed inoltre, 
nell’ introduzione al terzo volume delle Navigazioni, dedicato a Gerolamo Fracastoro, 
egli ricorda la richiesta del destinatario affinché lui, Ramusio, presentasse delle 
“tavole” che, generate dalla intelligente e colta unione delle conoscenze di portolani 
redatti dai vari piloti spagnoli e francesi e delle relazioni sulla scoperta (prima fra 
tutte quella di Oviedo) dessero finalmente un resoconto visivo della realta geografica, 
cosi come aveva fatto Tolomeo per I’antichita. Ora noné chi non veda la presenza, 
in queste parole, di due dei topoi tra i pid frequentati nelle presentazioni dei libri, 
la giustificazione della esistenza dell’opera stessa come esaudimento di una richiesta 
del destinatario ed il richiamo all’esempio portato dai grandi classici dell’argomento. 
Inoltre troviamo, nella seconda edizione dell’ opera (1565) una dichiarata afferma- 
zione della esigenza di presentare delle carte geografiche anche non perfette; anche 
se non presentabile sicuramente come prodotta direttamente dalla penna di Ramusio, 
questa aggiunta si rivela in realta come un piccolo manifesto della poetica dell’autore 
nei confronti delle nuove conoscenze: é meglio dare notizie parziali, sapendo di 
essere impossibilitati a darle esaustive 0 sicure, che attendere fino a quando non 
si avra la certezza assoluta dei nuovi dati culturali. Non é certo un caso, 10 credo, 
che queste affermazioni, che compongono la parte finale del Discorso, scompaiano 
dalla stampa del 1606, quando o, da una parte, 1 nuovi editori potevano pensare 
che il ciclo delle scoperte fosse ormai concluso, 0, anche, che affermazioni di 
“nerfettibilita” del testo potevano solo nuocere ad una sua diffusione: il quarantennio 
che separa le due edizioni é testimone infatti del pit grande fenomeno di involuzione 
culturale (ed anche, di conseguenza, editoriale) della nostra civilta (Dionisotti, pp. 
227-254). 


Hora queste tavole delle parti di questo mondo si danno fuori tali quali elle sono 
si per ubidire alle commissioni di Vostra Eccellenza come per sodisfare al desiderio 
degli studiosi non gia percioché le veggiamo del tutto perfette e compiute come 
si richiederebbe, ma per dare al presente una caparra, 0 vogliam pit tosto dire 
stimolo a quelli che verranno di far che in quello che noi non habbiamo havuto 
finora eglino piii copiosamente supplischino, percioché confessiamo che in molte 
parti, e massimamente fra terra, le medesime sono manchevoli e imperfette, onde 
molte fiate siamo stati d’animo di non le pubblicare se il desiderio che abbiamo 


222 DARIA PEROCCO 


grande di far piacere a quelli che si dilettano di simil lettione non ci avesse fatto 
lasciar da canto ogni rispetto, e metterci pill tosto a rischio di essere accusati di 
negligenza che di poco amorevoli 0 ufficiosi. E quelli che forse non sanno che 
le prime tavole che furono mai fatte di cosmografia non furono cosi perfette come 
quelle che dapoi uscirono, legghino Tolomeo che disputa molto copiosamente contra 
Marino Tirio mathematico, il quale avea date fuori molte tavole di geografia piene 
d’errori, le quali poi esso Tolomeo va pili commodamente racconciando nelle sue 
proprie. Questo istesso speriamo che habbia a divenire un giorno di queste nostre, 
che infra qualche anno di questa parte del mondo debbino esser date fuori tavole 
per qualche eccellente e diligente uomo, ad imitazione di questa nostra fatica, e 
pill particolari e forse pil copiose che non sono queste, né solamente le marine, 
ma etiandio il paese fra terra che al presente € per la maggior parte incognito. 
Il medesimo é da sperar che possa a qualche tempo avenire di queste relazioni, 
che abbiamo avute infinitamente incorrette. Piglino adunque i benigni lettori quel 
poco che diamo loro allegramente, tenendo per certo che, se pill ne fosse venuto 
alle mani, lo avremmo ancora dato loro molto pit volentieri’. 


L’importanza della presenza di carte illustrative dei testi geografici era gia stata 
sottolineata da Ramusio sin nella lettera dedicatoria del primo volume: é@ cioé 
praticamente impossibile capire testi geografici sui mondi nuovi 0 anche su quelli 
antichi e gia conosciuti senza poterne presentare una illustrazione grafica: ma é 
anche altrettanto impossibile avere una vera immagine delle realta senza che questa 
rappresentazione cartacea sia validamente supportata e chiarita dalla parola. Ora 
& questo concetto portante che interessa peculiarmente in questa sede: se poi le carte 
che accompagnano i testi raccolti e rielaborati da Ramusio e a noi pervenute siano 
in realta quelle disegnate allo scopo da Gastaldi 0 se siano state da queste riprese 
é argomento che, pur di notevole interesse, non appare qui fondamentale, tanto 
pil che é gia stato illustrato da geografi, studiosi competenti in questa materia 
(Caraci, pp. 129-131). 

L’appurare invece che, proprio per 1’edizione ramusiana del terzo volume delle 
Navigazioni Gastaldi abbia direttamente creato le carte del continente americano 
senza ispirarsi ad altro materiale grafico ma solo alle descrizioni presenti nei testi 
di Gomara dice molto sulla cultura e la preparazione del nostro cartografo (Caraci, 
p. 131). Se non avesse potuto basarsi su delle competenze come quelle che ritrovava 
in Gastaldi, difficilmente il Ramusio avrebbe potuto scrivere proprio nella 
presentazione del primo volume della sua raccolta: 


Ma la cagione che mi fece affaticar volontieri in questa opera fu che, vedendo 


2. Ramusio, Navigazioni e viaggi (Venezia, Giunti, 1565), cc. 16-17. L’edizione einaudiana 
che qui abitualmente si cita e che riproduce non la princeps, ma la ristampa anastatica 
olandese (1967) dell’edizione del 1606, riporta in nota il passo citato come presente nella 
princeps del terzo volume. Ci sitrova quindi, per precisione, in questo caso costretti a citare 
direttamente dall’edizione cinquecentesca. 


Giacomo Gastaldi e la Universale descrittione del mondo 208 


e considerando le tavole della geografia di Tolomeo, dove si descrive 1’ Africa e 
la India, esser molto imperfette rispetto alla gran cognizione che si ha oggi di quelle 
regioni, ho stimato dover essere caro e forse non poco utile al mondo il mettere 
insieme le narrationi degli scrittori de’ nostri tempi che sono stati nelle sopradette 
parti del mondo e di quelle han parlato minutamente; alle quali aggiugnendo la 
descrittione delle carte marine portoghesi, si potrian fare altretante tavole che 
sarebbero di grandissima satisfazione a quelli che si dilettano di tal cognitione, 
perché sarian certi dei gradi, delle larghezze e lunghezze almanco delle marine 
di tutte queste parti, e de’ nomi de luoghi, citta e signori che vi habitano al 
presente, e potrian conferirle con quel tanto che ne hanno scritto gli auttori antichi. 
(Ramusio, I, 4-5 n. n.) 


Non é certo casuale, dunque, che Ramusio sottolinei l’importanza delle carte 
in ambedue le introduzioni generali che ci sono rimaste (rispettivamente al volume 
primo e terzo della sua opera); @ noto infatti che il secondo volume, gia in corso 
di stampa, si perse nell’incendio che distrusse la casa editrice Giunti nel 1557, per 
cui i legni dovettero essere ripreparati ed esso fu stampato solo nel 1559, tre anni 
dopo il terzo e postumo di due all’autore. Quella che é generalmente considerata 
la lettera dedicatoria del secondo volume é in realta solo l’introduzione al testo di 
Marco Polo che, per la venezianita e l’orgoglio campanilistico del nostro autore, 
viene presentato in maniera pit accurata e lunga di altri testi (si veda solo la 
descrizione dell’esatta ubicazione delle case dei Polo nel trecento e all’inizio del 
cinquecento o la specificazione della fonte diretta da cui Ramusio dichiara aver tratto 
determinate informazioni pervenutegli per via orale). Se (come appare estremamente 
probabile) ci fu una lettera introduttiva a tutto il secondo volume essa, come quelle 
che compaiono negli altri due tomi di cui é@ costituita l’opera, doveva parlare di 
argomenti teorici e che, soprattutto, riguardassero il volume nella sua complessita. 
Questa lettera doveva essere dedicata (come appunto accade negli altri due volum1) 
al Fracastoro; la scarna evocazione di dedica che appare all’inizio della prefazione 
al Milione deve verisimilmente essere stata collocata proprio in quel luogo dal 
curatore dell’ edizione definitiva (non dimentichiamo, postuma), per uniformita con 
ie altre due; un altro dato, non cogente, ma certo significativo, é possibile poi leggere 
nelle date: Fracastoro mori improvvisamente nell’agosto del 1553 e quindi, se 
l’introduzione al testo di Marco Polo e la lettera dedicatoria del secondo volume 
si dovessero identificare in un unico testo, quest’ ultima e quella per il terzo volume 
sarebbero state scritte a circa quindici giorni di distanza (rispettivamente il 20 giugno 
[terzo volume] e 7 luglio [secondo volume]; Caraci, p. 126), mentre la preparazione 
e la rielaborazione dei testi che compongono i due diversi volumi aveva implicato 
uno spazio di tempo pluriennale, ed una marcata scansione, tra l’uno e |’altro. E 
dunque altamente verisimile che il problema delle carte geografiche inserite nel 
secondo volume sia stato toccato dall’autore nell’introduzione ma che di questa, 
come delle carte stesse, non ci rimanga traccia. 

Per quanto riguarda il Gastaldi non é difficile capire che le discussioni degli 


224 DARIA PEROCCO 


studiosi moderni si siano sempre accentrate sulla produzione strettamente cartografica 
e sulla entita delle conoscenze di cui poteva essere in possesso, nelle diverse (se 
pur relativamente ravvicinate) altezze cronologiche in cui ogni diversa mappa era 
prodotta. Non mi risulta invece esistere alcun tipo di indagine sui “libretti”’ che 
qualche volta accompagnano le carte, sugli elenchi di nomi geografici stilati a lato 
alle carte stesse, sulle traduzioni in parallelo e quindi sulle corrispondenze dei nomi 
geografici non solo nelle diverse lingue moderne, ma soprattutto nel confronto con 
le dichiarazioni degli antichi. A quel che risulta da uno spoglio rapido e veloce del 
testo di Karrow, il Gastaldi pare essere uno dei pochissimi, se non Il’unico cartografo 
che sente l’esigenza di unire il testo alla carta, di compiere cioé, se pur in modo 
pi relativo e dimesso, un’operazione chiasmica rispetto a quella di Ramusio. 
Dobbiamo quindi rivolgerci ai testi gastaldini, pur con la assoluta consapevolezza 
che le maggiori abilita del nostro non si erano esplicitate nel campo letterario. Una 
prima, credo fondamentale osservazione, riguarda il tipo di lingua (meglio sarebbe 
specificare, di volgare) che egli usa. Solo uno dei suoi testi, il pi ampio e forse 
l’unico che questo nome possa portare con assoluta dignita, viene tradotto in latino, 
ma non vi é dubbio che la stesura originale sia stata fatta in volgare. Stiamo parlando 
della Universale descrittione del mondo \a cui prima edizione vede la luce nel 1561, 
in un testo ora divenuto rarissimo, ma certo non nella misura in cui é stato dichiarato 
anche in anni relativamente recenti*. Pur nella relativa esiguita delle carte che 
compongono questa scrittura si pud notare che il nostro autore tenta di adoperare 
con una certa diligenza un tipo di linguaggio che é estremamente simile a quello 
utilizzato da Ramusio nella sua estesa produzione. Abbiamo potuto analizzare la 
dinamica del farsi della lingua del veneziano proprio partendo dagli originali dei 
testi inseriti nelle Navigazioni e studiando le linee correttorie della riscrittura 
ramusiana®: non si vuole qui riassumere gli estremi di un problema in realta 
sfaccettato nella sua complessita, si vuole solo ricordare la linea di tendenza 
correttoria che, riassunta in modo estremamente sintetico, indica il tentativo di 
adeguarsi, in modo quasi pedissequo, alle normative indicate dal Bembo nel terzo 
libro delle Prose della volgar lingua. Non é quindi da meravigliarsi se anche il 
Gastaldi segue questa linea, “vincente” del resto in tutta Italia, soprattutto se si 
considera che egli, piemontese di nascita e di educazione, doveva coattamente 


3. Il termine, estremamente appropriato, é ripreso da Almagia, p. 8. 


4. R. Rainero, “Attualita ed importanza dell’attivita di Giacomo Gastaldi ‘cosmografo 
piemontese’,” in Bollettino della societa per gli studi storici, archeologici ed artistici della 
provincia di Cuneo, LXXXVI (1982), 5-13 (ma vedi quanto detto su questo contributo in D. 
Perocco, p. 220, n. 2; nella stessa stede sono elencati anche i vari esemplari del testo di 


Gastaldi presenti in biblioteche pubbliche). 


5. Faccio riferimento al mio saggio “Scrivere 0/e riscrivere il testo: Ramusio e Bembo” 
(in corso di stampa). 


Giacomo Gastaldi e la Universale descrittione del mondo 225 


rivolgersi ad una lingua che sentiva non materna per quel che riguardava la scrittura 
“alta”. Se ci fosse bisogno di un’ulteriore conferma, la lingua del Gastaldi 
ingloberebbe in sé la prova di una attenta frequentazione dell’ambiente profondamente 
influenzato dalle teorie linguistiche bembesche. Cid non toglie certo la possibilita 
di incontrare termini abitualmente ricorrenti anche nel linguaggio pit strettamente 
scientifico, come la doppia coppia di aggettivi che si trovano in apertura del testo 
e che definiscono gli elementi che compongono il globo terrestre: “La universal 
machina della terra & dell’acqua, elementi densi e gravi, i quali sono inferiori all’ aria 
e al fuoco, elementi pit rari e lievi...” (Gastaldi, c. 2r); & forse anzi a proposito 
sottolineare che i primi due aggettivi (densi e gravi) ricorrono con lo stesso 
significato e nello stesso ordine in testi leonardeschi. 

Per quanto riguarda poi strettamente i contenuti dell’operetta la prima cosa 
che si impone alla lettura é la necessita percepita dall’autore di sottolineare le 
fondamentali differenze che intercorrono tra “cosmografia”, “geografia”, 
“corografia” e “topografia”, in una graduazione che vede sempre piu restringersi 
le dimensioni dell’ oggetto descritto: dalla totalita del “cielo come della terra et Mare” 
della cosmografia, alle parti unicamente della terra e del mare “con le divisioni 
delle provincie, regni, regioni...citta, castelli, monti fiumi, laghi, mari, golfi, porti, 
capi et isole” della geografia, fino a restringersi, per il mare alle carte da navigar 
e per la terra alla “descrittione particolar de territori delle citta, con le strade, castelli 
e ville, fiumi, torrenti, rivoli, canali, boschi, monti, valle fra monti, campagne, 
passi et confini...” fatta dalla corografia per finire con la topografia che illustra 
un luogo particolare®. E quasi ovvio notare che, pur essendo evidente che il testo 
scritto da Gastaldi rientra appieno fra quelli di “geografia” (per usare la sua 
distinzione) egli é particolarmente attento nell’informare delle differenze tra i vari 
settori della sua materia, cosi come sottolinea la necessita e la difficolta per il 
costruttore di carte di ridurre il corpo sferico della terra ad una rappresentazione 
grafica su un piano. Premessa, dunque, la conoscenza dei limiti, egli afferma, pero, 
di avere la consapevolezza di essersi avvicinato, con il suo mappamondo, al 
“verisimile del spherico” pid di ogni carta geografica in circolazione che avesse 
la volonta di riportare ambedue gli emisferi, e cioé pit: di qualunque carta di tutto 
il globo terraqueo’. 


6. Gastaldi, cc. 2v-3r. Le citazioni riportano il testo della princeps, uniformato all’uso 
moderno solo nell’uso delle maiuscole, della punteggiatura e della distinzione tra u e v. 


7. Argomento estremamente affascinante, ma non affrontabile in questa sede, é quello dei 
globi (cioé i mappamondi terrestri e celesti veri e propri, che Fracastoro chiama sempre, 
venezianamente, “balle”), cui pare abbia lavorato anche Gastaldi, almeno per quel che 
riguarda il problema della resa grafica. Questi oggetti, molto preziosi ma non rari, ricorrono 
nelle discussioni geografiche di Bembo, Ramusio, Fracastoro ecc. (cfr. come esempio la 
lettera di Fracastoro a Ramusio 1534) e sappiamo che essi ne erano in possesso (uno, di 


226 DARIA PEROCCO 


L’orgogliosa consapevolezza di aver compiuto un qualche cosa di veramente 
nuovo si riflette anche, al di 1a della descrizione pit minuta delle varie parti in cui 
é divisa la terra, nella certezza di star correggendo errori tramandati da secoli 
attraverso le auctoritates degli antichi: non ci troviamo di fronte all’accertamento 
effettuato dal viaggiatore che riferisce con un atteggiamento che puo variare tra 
la perplessa incredulita e la tracotanza data dalla certezza del riscontro effettuato 
di persona, ma alle conclusioni dello studio di un dotto che si trova necessitato a 
dedurre la necessita dell’ errore: 


Questo suo discorso imaginato per il corso del sole et per la luntananza del detto 
dalli Zenit che sono in tal parte, non verifica la ragione che dicono, non essendovi 
mai alcun di loro trasferito in simil parte. Se havessero havuto cognitione di detti 
paesi, non haveriano detto simili ragioni; come si verifica dalli moderni per il 
desiderio di sapere, hanno praticato e negociato in diversi paesi, principalmente 
sotto il circolo artico, e distendendosi verso il polo artico insino a gradi 80 di 
latitudine, o voglia dire la larghezza, li quali hanno ritrovato diverse regioni 
habitatissime; né mi estendero a scriverle... (Gastaldi, cc. 3v-4r) 


E poi ancora: 


Gli antiqui hebbero per opinione che sotto a questa zona non vi fosse abitatione 
alcuna, e che fosse luoco inhabitabile; la ragione loro era questa. E dicevano: se 
il sole riscalda i luochi che sono fuori di questa zona cosi gran calore e di necessita 
tenere per fermo che sotto questa zona passandoli il sole due volte all’anno per 
zenit che sia riscaldata la terra di sorte che non la puo frutare et é luoco infruttioso 
et inhabitabile. Questa sua opinione era opinione senza prattica,® perché non 
hebbero mai cognitione di quelli luochi, dove alli tempi nostri molti mercanti ¢ 
marinai et huomini che scrivono historie |’hanno discoperta quasi tutti per mare 
e per terra... (Gastaldi, cc. 5r-5v). 


Siamo negli anni delle grandi teorizzazioni: il valore dell’esperienza pratica, 
perd, sembra, in testi come questi almeno, avere un valore probatorio ben piu alto, 
valore riaffermato (ed @ qui l’importanza di Gastaldi), non solo nelle “prove 
pratiche”, come le carte geografiche, che le nuove realta riportavano dalle narrazioni 
di coloro che avevano avuto esperienza diretta, ma anche e soprattutto nei testi 


proprieta del Bembo, fu comprato da Giacomo Faletti, oratore del duca Alfonso II d’Este 
a Venezia, nel 1561). Spesso la loro costruzione materiale era affidata ad artisti di grande 
valore, come (e parliamo dell’ambiente veneto) il miniaturista Francesco dei Libri che, come 
ci racconta Vasari, ne costrui almeno tre (sui mappamondi di F. dei Libri cfr. D. Perocco, 
“Bandello corregge Vasari”, Saggi di linguistica e di letteratura in memoria di P. Zolli. 
Padova, Antenore, 1991, pp. 583-587 e “Medaglioni veneti di Matteo Bandello”, Miscellanea 
di studi in onore di M. Pecoraro. I: Da Dante al Manzoni. Firenze, Olschki, 1991, pp. 179- 
193). 


8. Il corsivo é mio. 


Giacomo Gastaldi e la Universale descrittione del mondo 227 


teorici: é solo dopo la produzione cartografica e teorica di Gastaldi, non prima, 
che comincia ad apparire illogica (nel significato di priva di senso) la pubblicazione 
di un testo tolemaico affiancato da carte geografiche che riflettono la realta del 
mondo cinquecentesco dopo le grandi scoperte; in altre parole, esasperando il 
concetto fino alle estreme conseguenze, dalle parole di Gastaldi affiora |’assurdita 
del voler a tutti i costi salvare il testo degli antichi quando parallelamente viene 
descritta una realta tanto diversa rispecchiata dalle conoscenze dell’oggi. 

Alla fine della “universale descrittione” , cioé della spiegazione in grandi linee 
del mappamondo, Gastaldi si ripromette di realizzare (e noi sappiamo che lo fara) 
anche |’illustrazione pit distinta e particolareggiata dei vari territori in cui a loro 
volta le quattro parti del mondo (Europa, Asia, Africa, Mondo Nuovo) sono divise: 


Similmente tutte le Provincie del mondo si divideno in regni, regioni, territori, 
con le lor citta, castelli et monti, laghi, fiumi, mari, golfi, porti et isole, la division 
delle quali non la descriver6é qui altramente. Ma le risalvo a scriverle con le parti 
che daro in luce alla giornata, pil particolarmente che non sono descritte nel 
mapamondo: nel detto mapamondo vi € descritto qualche cosa in generale, per 
esser fatto a piccolo compasso, ma nelle parti che si danno fuori vi sara ogni 
particolare. (Gastaldi, c. 10v) 


Questa affermazione-promessa di un ulteriore prolungamento del suo lavoro 
viene usata a mo’ di conclusione dal Gastaldi per la sua breve trattazione (e che 
si tratti veramente di una conclusione é prova il finalino tipografico presente in tutte 
le edizioni, compresa la traduzione latina). A questa segue, come “capitolo” a se 
Stante, una disquisizione di assoluta novita ed attualita: “La variation del tempo 
che ritrovano quelli che circondano attorno il mondo, da Levante verso Ponente, 


_ et cosi da Ponente verso Levante; come per ragione si dimostra la causa di tal 


variatione” e cioé la dimostrazione della perdita (0 dell’acquisto) di un giorno, nel 
computo finale di chi abbia effettuato la circumnavigazione del globo. Una 
illustrazione (di estrema curiosita e degna di attenzione particolare) fa parte integrante 
del trattatello: ma al di 1a della curiosita che tutto l’insieme puo risvegliare, é@ 


| interessante notare che Gastaldi é in assoluto il primo che, dopo averlo teorizzato, 


risolve il problema della “variation del tempo”, problema che, negli anni precedenti 
era Stato posto (e non una sola volta) da Ramusio, da Bembo, e da Fracastoro (ancora 
€ sempre gli stessi amici interessati ai problemi geografici che il nostro Gastaldi 
frequenta assiduamente). E proprio Ramusio, nel Discorso sopra la navigatione 
fatta dalli Spagnuoli intorno ’l mondo’ da lui premesso al Viaggio di Antonio 
Pigafetta (che con la Narrazione di un Portoghese compagno di Odoardo Barbosa 
qual fu sopra la nave Vittoria dell’anno 1519 costituisce il contributo ramusiano 


9. Purtroppo neppure questo testo é stato inserito nell’edizione moderna a cura di M. Milanesi 
€ quindi le citazioni sono riprese dalla princeps, Venezia, Giunti, 1550. 


228 DARIA PEROCCO 


alla narrazione della prima circumnavigazione del globo compiuta da Magellano), 
a narrare come perviene nella citta lagunare la curiosita e l’interesse sul problema. 
Quando il 6 settembre 1522 la nave Vittoria, dopo pit di tre anni di navigazione, 
entra nel porto di Siviglia con 1 marinai convinti che fosse il 7 settembre, 
ambasciatore veneziano alla corte di Carlo V era Gaspare Contarini. Si tratta proprio 
di quel Contarini che verra eletto alla porpora cardinalizia da Paolo III per preparare 
la convocazione del Concilio, anche in virtt delle sue doti politiche e diplomatiche 
e del credito che godeva presso Carlo V'°. Amico di Pietro Martire d’ Anghiera, 
che era stato incaricato di redigere una relazione dai racconti dei superstiti della 
spedizione di Magellano, viene da questi informato della discrasia notata nel computo 
dei giorni e, come ci informa il Ramusio “gli dimostro che a loro non poteva 
avvenire altrimenti, havendo essi navigato tre anni continui sempre accompagnando 
il sole che andava in ponente. Et di pit gli disse, come gli antichi anchora essi 
havevano osservato che quelli che navigavano dietro al sole verso Ponente 
allungavano grandemente il giorno”''. Si aprirebbe qui una parentesi troppo ampia 
parlando delle strette relazioni di amicizia tra Contarini e Ramusio, che quindi 
vengono date per assodate; ma si vuole ricordare che nella narrazione di questi 
dialoghi “geografici” deve essere inserito anche il Bembo, che, incuriosito dal 
problema e stimolato dal Ramusio, si premura di interrogare direttamente il 
Contarini, dopo che questo é ritornato dalle sue missioni diplomatiche; |’esito di 
questa conversazione viene narrato nella lettera che é inviata da Bembo a Ramusio 
il 10 maggio 1540 e che comincia direttamente cosi: 


Ho parlato a Monsig. Contarino, e truovo esser vero quello che dite del Maglianes, 
che ando per ponente e, tornato, trovO quel tempo esser cresciuto d’un giorno: 
ché credendo quel di, nel quale egli giunsero in Ispagna esser mercore, verbi causa 
esso era giobia. Ma cosi dico anco io: che si trovarono quelli tre anni esser d’un 
giorno cresciuti. E cosiriesce vero che aveano perduto un giorno, come dite. Pero 
che essendo quel di giobia, che essi credeano che fosse mercore, conviene che 
abbiano perduto un di. Ma pero quel tempo viene ad esser cresciuto d’un giorno, 
come io dico (Bembo, lett. 2187, 1-9). 


Ora é pura curiosita sottolineare che, da un punto di vista narrativo, l’angolo 
di osservazione del Bembo é quello di chi é rimasto a terra (che quindi trova che 
chi ha viaggiato conta un giorno di pi); ¢ forse piu intrigante osservare che, mentre 
scrive al Ramusio, Bembo si dimentica di essere “bembesco” ed infila una serie 
di termini in veneziano...; certo é che l’argomento doveva interessarlo veramente 
molto se lo riprende, in fondo in un luogo che non implicava la necessita di 
spiegazioni di questo genere, anche nella /storia viniziana: 


10. Cfr. la voce “Contarini, Gasparo” di G. Fragnito in D.B./. 
11. Ramusio, 1550, p. 373v. 


Giacomo Gastaldi e la Universale descrittione del mondo 229 


Perciocché tanto pit tosto al sole oriente occorrendo, quanto pil di via dopo se 
lasciato nel girare avesse; alla fine tutto il cerchio della terra rigirato, d’un giorno 
prima il sole a lei levarsi, che quando nella via si pose non faceva, avrebbe senza 
fallo veduto (Bembo 1729, Iv, 363). 


Tutti i dotti citati fin qui, Pietro Martire, Contarini, Ramusio, Bembo, pero, 
pongono il problema, ma non danno la spiegazione matematica della questione che 
é invece finalmente illustrata e spiegata, come si diceva poc’anzi, proprio dal 
Gastaldi. Ancora una volta, sulla scia dei grandi amici-estimatori, il Gastaldi ha 
risolto, con le competenze tecniche che erano solo sue, uno dei problemi posti dalla 
nuova geografia. E bello per noi pensare a questa ideale societa di dotti in cui il 
pit giovane (e forse il pit taciturno tra i suoi eruditi amici) degli accoliti riesce 
ad esplicitare e a “mettere in carta” le soluzioni che, mano a mano, discussione 
_ dopo discussione, venivano identificate. 


Universita Ca’ Foscari, Venezia 


OPERE CITATE 


R. Almagia, La carta dei paesi danubiani e delle regioni contermini di Giacomo Gastaldi 
(1546) riprodotta dall’unico esemplare conosciuto, conservato nella Biblioteca Vaticana. 
Roma, Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana, 1939. 
P. Bembo, Lettere, edizione critica a cura di E. Travi. Bologna, Commissione per i testi 
di lingua, 1987-93. 

. Bembo, Opere. Venezia, F. Hertzauser, 1729. 

. Caraci, “Note critiche sui mappamondi gastaldini”, Rivista geografica italiana, XLII 
(1936), 120-137; 202-237. 

C. Dionisotti, Geografia e storia della letteratura italiana. Torino, Einaudi, 1967. 

G. Gastaldi, La universale descrittione del mondo descritta da Giacomo de’ Castaldi 
Piamontese. Venezia, M. Pagano, 1561. 

_R. W. Karrow, Jr., Mapmakers of the Sixteenth Century and Their Maps. Chicago, Newberry 
Library — Speculum Orbis Press, 1993. 

J. Le Goff, L’Occident médiéval et l’océan indien: un horizon onirique. Firenze, Olschki, 
1970; ora in Tempo della chiesa e tempo del mercante. Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 

S. Grande, Notizia sulla vita e sulle opere di Giacomo Gastaldi cosmografo piemontese del 
secolo XVI, con prefazione di L. Hugues. Torino, C. Clausen, 1902. 

D. Perocco, “Giacomo Gastaldi”, in Esplorazioni geografiche e immagine del mondo nei 
secoli XVe XVI. Messina, Grafo, 1994, pp. 211-222. A questo articolo si rimanda per 
tutta la bibliografia sul Gastaldi. 

G. B. Ramusio, Navigazioni e viaggi, a cura di M. Milanesi. Torino, Einaudi, 1978. 

U. Tucci, “Atlante”, in Enciclopedia. Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 


Gia 


ALBERT N. MANCINI 


Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa nel 
Viaggio di Francia 
di Sebastiano Locatelli 


Un trentennio fa il maggiore specialista della letteratura di viaggio del Seicento, 
Marziano Guglielminetti, osservava con ragione che la mancanza di uno studio critico 
generale e sistematico era responsabile per la consuetudine della manualistica di 
concedere poco spazio agli scritti di viaggio.' Tuttora inevaso rimane 1|’ambizioso 
progetto di una rassegna comprensiva delle relazioni di viaggiatori italiani in Europa 
dalla meta del Cinquecento alla fine del Settecento avanzato, e solo in piccola parte 
realizzato , da Alessandro D’ Ancona.” Anche Benedetto Croce, storico attentissimo 
e paziente della civilta letteraria del Seicento, accorda scarsa attenzione alla prosa 
di viaggio limitandosi a menzionare nella sua Storia dell’eta barocca Pietro della 
Valle (Viaggi descritti da lui medesimo, 1650-1663) e Giovanni Francesco Gemelli 
Careri (Viaggi per l’Europa, 1693 e Giro intorno al mondo, 1699-1700) e a 


*. Questo articolo rielabora ed amplia lo studio apparso come “Prefazione” alla edizione 
curata da Luigi Monga, Viaggio di Francia. Costumi e qualita di quei paesi (1664-1665) 
(Moncalieri: Centro Interuniversitario di Ricerche sul Viaggio in Italia, 1990). Si avverte 
che le pagine a cui si rimanda sia nella prefazione (pp. 9-18) che nella “Introduzione”, 
firmata dal curatore (pp. 19-40), non corrispondono esattamente a quelle dell’edizione 
stessa. Un’impaginazione successiva alla correzione delle bozze ha causato l’inconveniente 
che ho qui eliminato. Vorrei anche ringraziare la direzione del Centro per la gentile 
concessione di riproporre queste pagine e l’amico Monga, a cui devo la conoscenza 
dell’opera del Locatelli e l’invito generoso a studiarla. 


1. Ottimo é il panorama della letteratura di viaggio che Marziano Guglielminetti ha premesso 
alla sua antologia Viaggiatori del Seicento (Torino: UTET, 1967), pp. 7-60. Assai perspicaci 
sono 1 giudizi di Ezio Raimondi sulla produzione secentesca in Storia della letteratura italiana. 
V: Il Seicento (Milano: Garzanti, 1967), pp. 242-257, 301-305. Con utilita si possono 
consultare anche i contributi di Franca Angelini in La letteratura italiana. Storia e testi. 
V/2. Il Seicento (Roma-Bari: Laterza, 1974), pp. 358-368; e Martino Capucci in Storia 
letterariad’Italia. Il Seicento (Padova: Piccin Nuova Libraria, 1986), pp. 718-726, 746-751. 
Mi limito ovviamente a un’informazione bibliografica essenziale, rimandando a studi aggiornati 
dai quali € possibile risalire all’intera vicenda critica dei temi qui toccati o interrelati. 


2. Viaggiatori e avventurieri (Firenze, Sansoni, 1974; I* ed. 1912); di limitata utilita i] contri- 
buto sul Locatelli: “Un viaggiatore bolognese in Francia (1664-1665): Sebastiano Locatelli”, 
pp. 129-151. Il saggio era gia apparso in forma ridotta nel Giornale d’Italia dell’8 novembre 
1905. Sul volume del D’Ancona, cfr. Ettore Bonora, “I ‘viaggiatori e avventurieri’ di Ales- 
sandro D’Ancona”, Giornale storico della letteratura italiana, LXXXVIII (1971), 29-39. 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 








Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa Zi 


confermare la popolarita delle loro relazioni di viaggio fra i lettori contemporanei.’ 
Vero é che, come lamentava Giorgio Raimondo Cardona, la storiografia letteraria 
italiana non ha mai incorporato volentieri la scrittura di viaggio, che pur vanta una 
lunga e gloriosa tradizione, nel canone “quasi che i molti dati materiali e concreti 
di cui essi sono necessariamente costruiti inquinino in qualche modo un ideale di 
disinteressata e disincantata letteriarieta; quasi che paesi e costumi ed eventi possano 
diventare riconosciuta provincia letteraria solo quando li marchi il segno dell’ inven- 
zione, del fantastico.”* 

La ricognizione dell’esperienza di vita di cultura del sacerdote bolognese 
Sebastiano Locatelli (1637-1693c.) consente di seguire micrologicamente , per cosi 
dire, da un osservatorio minore, non aperto a grandi eventi storico-artistici o ad 
esoterici paesag gi d’oltreoceano, |’evolversi della problematica del viaggio italiano 
all’estero del Seicento, avviato sempre pit a condiscendere, anziché allo spirito 
cosmopolita del navigatore, del mercante, del diplomatico o del missionario, ai gusti 
e alle attrattive del mero turismo, con i suoi topi d’obbligo (notizie di carattere 
geografico ed etnologico, paragoni tra 1 paesi visitati e le regioni italiane), 
indifferente 0 comunque poco sensibile all’atmosfera di talune aree politiche e 
socioculturali (le controversie della Chiesa post-tridentina con i riformati e 1 
giansenisti, i conflitti delle potenze egemoniche). All’interesse letterario del diario 
del Locatelli, tuttavia, si accompagna quello storico-sociologico, che vi trova un 
vero € proprio repertorio di motivi culturali (costumi, cerimonie liturgiche e pratiche 
religiose) dominanti del secondo Seicento, come evidenzia l’apporto della scrupolosa 
ricerca condotta dal curatore sui nomi propri citati nel testo (pp. 469-474), i dati 
cronologici e topografici dell’ itinerario (pp. 370-371), la fitta trama di riferimenti 
storici, luoghi, monumenti ed opere d’arte (pp. 372-448). Il copioso apparato delle 
note procede col criterio interdisciplinare avviato nella non meno doviziosa 
“Introduzione,” che contiene puntuali precisazioni sulla storia delle redazioni del 
Viaggio, sui criteri di edizione, sulla lingua e sul tema del viaggio nel diciassettesimo 
secolo (pp. 19-40). Solo un lettore dotato di buona memoria e provvisto di 
un’eccezionale conoscenza della letteratura odeporica del Cinque e Seicento come 
Luigi Monga poteva essere sufficientemente qualificato per un lavoro del genere. 
In breve, il testo del Viaggio costituisce un’ulteriore tessera di quel quadro ancora 
in fieri della prosa di viaggio fiorita nel Seicento, una sollecitante operazione 
esplorativa in un territorio, cioé, finora ancora non dissodato dai critici della 
letteratura. 

Il 22 aprile 1664 Sebastiano Locatelli, giovane prete bolognese, lascia la citta 
natale e si dirige verso Parma, dove si era dato appuntamento con due fratelli di 


3. Storia dell’eta barocca in Italia (Bari: Laterza, 1957; 1* ed. 1929), p. 110. 


4. “I viaggie le scoperte” in Letteratura italiana. V. Le questioni (Torino: Einaudi, 1986), 
p. 687. 


232 ALBERT N. MANCINI 


nobile famiglia per proseguire il viaggio che lo conduce a Parigi (10 novembre 
1664). Dopo un soggiorno di sei mesi circa nella capitale francese, 18 maggio 
il Locatelli riparte con un gruppo di nobili di casa Gonzaga e, seguendo il percorso 
Macon, Lione, Ginevra, Sempione, Milano, rientra a Bologna il 16 giugno 1665 
(o il 7 luglio), dove, secondo quanto I’autore stesso ci informa, inizia la redazione 
della prima versione del diario del suo viaggio su note prese nel corso del viaggio 
stesso. Negli anni seguenti, viene rivedendo e completando con notizie tratte da 
altre fonti quella prima relazione che viaggiando aveva stesa sotto forma di diario.° 
Fino al 1980 si conoscevano soltanto due versioni dell’opera: una del 1675, 
conservata alla Biblioteca Universitaria di Bologna, dal Monga indicata con la sigla 
BU; e una seconda, in gran parte autografa, della Biblioteca Augustea di Perugia, 
terminata nel 1693, l’ultima redazione conosciuta del Viaggio (P). Nel 1980 Giorgio 
De Piaggi rese pubblico un terzo manoscritto, datato 1666, contenente il primo 
rifacimento del diario originale, e quindi la prima delle varie stesure dell’ opera 
giunte a noi, in possesso della Biblioteca dell’ Archiginnasio di Bologna (BA); ed 
Emanuele Kanceff ne ha scoperta nel 1989 una quarta, custodita presso la Biblioteca 
Reale di Torino (T). Il Viaggio rimase inedito fino a quando fu riesumato in buona 
parte e tradotto in francese da Adolphe Vautier nel 1905.° Wilfrid Blunt ne diede 
un adattamento romanzato in inglese nel 1956.’ 

Le differenze tra la versione originale e le successive stesure sono considerevoli. 
L’ampliamento innovativo del testo rispetto alla prima redazione é costante: si passa 
dalle 284 pagine nella versione del 1666, alle 346 in quella del 1675, alle 518 di 
quella del 1693. Vengono introdotti nuovi episodi, si approfondiscono osservazioni 
e si ampliano precedenti descrizioni. L’edizione critica del testo presentava difficolta 
tecniche rilevanti e ha suggerito al curatore dell’edizione recente un compromesso 
plausibile e funzionale. II testo é stato stabilito sulla base del manoscritto del 1666 


5. Cfr. l’avvertenza “Al Lettore” della redazione contenuta nel ms. BU della Biblioteca 
Universitaria di Bologna del 1675: “Per corrispondere co’ fatti a’ comandamenti de’ miei 
Illustrissimi Padroni che prima di lasciar la patria m’obbligarono di scrivere a di per di, 
come han fatto tant’altri, quello che era per accadermi nel Viaggio di Francia, prendo la 
penna e tiro git alla peggio que’ quattro strambotti ch’ogni sera prima d’andar a dormire, 
cosi lasso e stanco, notai in un piccolo libriciuolo, tanto nell’andare, dimora e ritorno. E 
perché volevo con un poco di quiete e col rinviare la consolazione stender gil aggiustatamente 
le cose tanto vedute come le sentite et operate prima di darle alle lor mani, gli stessi ora 
mi sforzano a trascriverle correnti calamo come apunto allora mi caddero git dalla penna” 
(p. 362). 


6. Voyage de France. Moeurs et costumes francaises (1664-1665). Relation de Sébastien 
Locatelli, prétre bolonais, traduite sur les manuscrits autographes et publi€ée avec une introduc- 
tion et des notes par Adolphe Vautier (Paris: Picard, 1905). Il D’Ancona esprime un giudizio 
positivo sull’operazione di recupero del Viaggio da parte del Vautier, lodandone 1’ottima 
introduzione e il copioso apparato di note. 


7. Sebastiano. The Adventures of An Italian Priest, Sebastian Locatelli, during His Journey 
from Bologna to Paris and Back (1664-1665) (London: James Barrie, 1956). 








Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa 233 


(BA), il pid antico che si conservi, con le aggiunte e varianti dell’ultimo del 1693 
(P) evidenziate in neretto. Per meglio rendere conto dell’evoluzione del testo il 
Monga documenta inoltre con ampie note a pie’ di pagina alcuni passi dei codici 
intermedi della Biblioteca Universitaria di Bologna (1675) e della Biblioteca Reale 
di Torino (1691). Sarebbe estremamente interessante confrontare i vari stadi della 
formazione del Viaggio per analizzare il tipo d’interpolazioni e di aggiunte nonché, 
ovviamente, di tagli eseguiti dal Locatelli. L’esame comparativo delle diverse 
stesure, affrontato in via preliminare dal Monga (pp. 32-33), che permetterebbe 
di precisare nel lavoro correttorio alcune direzioni generali, dovra essere rimandato 
ad altra occasione. 

Chiaro pero mi sembra che il continuo lavoro di revisione del Viaggio condotto 
dall’autore ha trasformato profondamente l’opera rispetto alle tre precedenti 
redazioni. Al punto che un esame, anche provvisorio e non esaustivo, dei mutamenti 
intervenuti non consente di sostenere che si tratta di un ulteriore compimento e 
perfezionamento dell’opera. Infatti quel che pit conta nell’evoluzione del testo 
mi pare essere l’aspetto di reazione personale al viaggiare, |’interpretazione 
dell’esperienza del viaggio da parte dell’autore, che diventa pit sfumata col passare 
degli anni e si precisa nell’esercizio della scrittura. Per il momento, comunque, 
m’interessano qui pid in particolare alcuni aspetti strutturali e formali dell’opera 
che si ricollegano alle pit recenti discussioni di ordine teorico, narratologico della 
letteratura di viaggio. L’intento non é pero soltanto di analizzare le macrostrutture 
dell’ opera del Locatelli, e cioé il contegno del viaggiatore, i modi narrativi adottati 
per ricostruire attraverso la scrittura gli incidenti occorsigli nel viaggio, ma anche 
di contestualizzare il testo all’interno del canone della prosa di viaggio secentesca. 

Un’impostazione di questo tipo apre, com’é noto, alcuni problemi essenziali, 
e innanzitutto quelli delle molte e complesse relazioni che la letteratura di viaggio, 
cronaca, catalogo e scrittura al tempo stesso, intrattiene con forme contigue e affini 
ed eventualmente quello della delimitazione di ambito che separa opere di carattere 
diverso, all’estremo una relazione di viaggio da una finzione di viaggio.* Le 
scritture di viaggio, che toccano in genere, senza apprezzabile penetrazione 
specialistica campi d’interessi disparati, dalla geografia alla storia alla politica e 


8. Molto illuminanti, a proposito, le fini considerazioni svolte da Georges May, L’Autobiogra- 
phie (Paris: Presses Universitaires de France, 1979); in specifico, la sezione “Le Récit de 
voyage,” pp. 138-144. Validi chiaramenti metodologici e utili precisazioni esegetiche si 
trovano nei contributi di Claudia Micocci, “I libri di viaggio e i viaggi di Pietro della Valle,” 
Annali dell’ Istituto di Filologia Moderna dell’Universita di Roma, Ml (1981), 125-154, e di 
Elvio Guagnini, “Letteratura di viaggio e storia della letteratura,” Problemi, n. 83 (1988). 
Per una tipologia delle forme della prosa di viaggio, oltre che il citato saggio di G. R. 
Cardona nella Storia einaudiana, cfr. le raccolte La letteratura di viaggio. Storia e prospettive 
di un genere letterario, a cura di Maria Enrica D’Agostini (Milano: Guerini, 1987) e La 
letteratura di viaggio dal Medioevo al Rinascimento. Generi e problemi (Alessandria: Edizioni 
dell’Orso, 1989). 


234 ALBERT N. MANCINI 


all’economia, obbediscono ai condizionamenti imposti dalle aspettative, di carattere 
informativo e cronachistico, ma anche immaginativo, dei destinatari, variabili da 
paese a paese, da epoca a epoca. Storicamente, ed é questo un dato acquisito della 
critica settoriale, nella letteratura odeporica assistiamo ad una svolta fondamentale 
al tempo delle grandi scoperte geografiche. Mentre nella prima fase le scritture 
di viaggi contengono ancora metafore, miti e topoi leggendari, tanto da circoscrivere 
a luoghi famosi per tradizione mitologica o storica l’iter investigativo dei viaggiatori, 
in un secondo momento I’alone favoloso e l’abbandono all’esotico scompaiono e 
le sfere di concentrazione , descrittive e narrative, sono determinate da interessi 
politici ed economici pit specifici, anche se uno spazio maggiore viene accordato 
all dimensione personale, alla cultura e posizione sociale del protagonista del viaggio. 
Inaltre parole, attraverso la procedura razionale del rilievo visivo, il viaggio diventa 
il metodo della conoscenza e il resoconto del viaggiatore la nuova fonte dei dati 
dell’esperienza. Al progressivo ampliamento dell’ orizzonte geografico si accompagna 
un allargamento concettuale nella direzione dell’analisi geoantropologica. La 
letteratura di viaggio deve allora specializzarsi e rinunciare alla universalita dei 
resoconti di un Sassetti e di un Pigafetta.’ I viaggiatori insorgono contro il libro, 
contro le conoscenze libresche dei cartografi e cosmografi di gabinetto; si richiamano 
direttamente all’esperienza, pit particolarmente a quella del luogo di cui parlano 
nelle loro relazioni. L’esperienza del viaggiatore s’oppone altresi all’autorita 
dell’ umanista sapiente, all’autorita fondata sugli interminabili commentari degli autori 
canonici. La prosa di viaggio é si ancora libro, scrittura, ma un libro che include 
il mondo.'° 

Nel canone della letteratura italiana del Seicento c’é ampio spazio per il viaggio 
mercantile, il viaggio religioso e il viaggio di evasione; per la sensibilita spiccata 
ai progetti delle grandi potenze del mercante avventuriero (di un Francesco Carletti), 
per l’alacre attivismo del missionario intento a conciliare i nuovi costumi con 
l’Occidente (di un Matteo Ricci) 0 interessato ad inchieste sociali (di un Giovanni 


9. Sulle sintetiche riflessioni qui esposte cfr. Paolo Getrevi, Dal picaro al gentiluomo 
(Milano: Franco Angeli, 1986), pp. 276-278, che riassume altre acute osservazioni di Hans 
Blumenberg, La leggibilita del mondo, trad. ital. a cura di R. Bodei (Bologna: I] Mulino, 
1984), pp. 105 sgg. Ma sulla rivoluzione epistemologica, sul ruolo del passaggio da una 
mentalita “adesiva” mitopoietica, e cioé governata dalla percezione olfattiva e auditiva ad 
una mentalita “visuale” sul clima intellettuale del Cinque e del Seicento, di rigore é il rinvio 
all’ormai classico lavoro di Lucien Febvre, Le Probléme de l’incroyance au XVF siécle (Paris: 
Albin Michel, 1942). Su questo complesso di problemi e di temi si veda |’illuminante messa 
a punto di Ezio Raimondi, “La nuova scienza e la visione degli oggetti,” Lettere italiane, 
XXI, 3 (1969). 


10. Si vedano i riscontri, emergenti dall’esame di prove specifiche nell’area francese in 
Norman Doiron, “L’Art de voyager. Pour une définition du récit de voyage 4 l’epoque 
classique,” Poétique, n. 73 (1988), 81-86; e, pit: recentemente, in L’Art de voyager (Paris: 
Klincksieck, 1995). 


Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa 235 


Antonio Cavazzi), per l’atteggiamento un po’ da sciovinista dell’intellettuale in 
vacanza (di un Pietro Della Valle). Si instaurano nuovi miti, che danno il valore 
del visto a quello che prima era solo immaginato. II viaggiatore si sovrappone al 
mercante, al diplomatico, al missionario e tende a diventare uno specialista. A 
cominciare dal Seicento le prospettive della scrittura di viaggio sono per questo 
diverse dal punto di vista della cultura. Alcuni autori sono pronti a ogni annotazione, 
quasi un prototipo giornalistico che privilegia la vista; altri non rinunciano al 
giudizio, ma lo riportano agli schemi del mondo da cui provengono; altri ancora 
tentano una mediazione critica. Si pud dire che la collocazione del libro di viaggio 
secentesco @ a meta tra il meraviglioso della scoperta e I’antropologico dell’acquisito. 
In ogni caso, esso rappresenta un momento decisivo del rapporto tra I’Italia e 
l’Europa o il resto del mondo." 

Importante sotto l’aspetto teorico quanto si legge in un’interessante “apologia 
de’ viaggi” del nostro Seicento, la lettera dedicatoria di Giovan Francesco 
Buonamico, autore di alcune Memorie de’ Viaggi (1672), anch’esse in attesa di un 
curatore illuminato. 


Dica pure cid che vuole l’antica severita de’ Lacedemoni — scrive il letterato e 
scienziato maltese — ch’io all’incontro quando pur non v’avessi interesse né 
parzialita veruna, sard sempre mai d’opinione che non v’é cosa pil utile e pil 
vantaggiosa al galantuomo né che contribuisca maggiormente a renderlo tale, quanto 
i Viaggi fatti con giudizio e matura riflessione, in Paesi principalmente ove non 
manchino cose che meritino essere osservate, e virtuosi degni d’essere imitati. 
Pretese Licurgo con proibire a’ suoi Spartani il viaggiare preservarli da qualche 
vizi pil comuni ad altre Nazioni, ma con questo veniva egli senza dubbio a privarli 
in un punto di mille vantaggi importantissimi. 


La curiosita di vedere il mondo, di sapere, di un sapere inteso come perfezionamento 
morale e arricchimento della propria cultura, piuttosto che il divertimento o la 
necessita materiale é per il Buonamico la motivazione principale del viaggiare: 


Recano alla mente i viaggi ben istituiti una certa maturita senile avanti gli anni, 
ed un’anticipata robustezza e costanza d’animo, aprendo in un tratto l’intelletto 
alla cognizione di mille cose diverse, e ad un perfetto discernimento del vero dal 
falso col mezzo d’un’infinita d’osservazioni ed esperienze che a ogni momento 
li rappresentano [...]. Impongono a se medesimi una vil servitd coloro che non 
ardiscono mai perder di vista il suol natio, e di liberi habitatori del Mondo, che 
Iddio gl’ha fatti, si rendono essi medesimi miseri prigionieri d’una piccola contrada. 


11. Come giustamente ha osservato il Guglielminetti nella introduzione alla citata sua antologia 
della prosa di viaggio del Seicento: “Sono anni difficili per I’Italia, allontanata dai commerci 
internazionali e destinata ad entrare sempre pil nell’orbita dell’influenza spagnola prima 
e francese dopo; anni in cui andare all’estero significava molte volte credere subito che Italia 
€ cattolicesimo (nei casi migliori Europa e cristianesimo) fossero diventati dei puri nomi, 
dietro i quali si nascondeva solo volonta di sopraffazione e di dominio” (p. 9). 


236 ALBERT N. MANCINI 


Piu altri e generosi pensieri c’inspira il nobilissimo morale (Seneca) esclamando: 
Non sum uni angulo natus; patria mea totus hic est mundus. Or quale insigne 
e crassa negligenza, anzi enorme sciocchezza sarebbe il non aver curiosita e 
desiderio di riconoscere la propria Patria [...]. _Tolgono all’anima ragionevole 
una delle sue maggiori perfezioni, quelli che pretendono privarla del moto, e della 
libera facolta di trasportarsi da un luogo all’altro.” 


Sintomatico mi pare il fatto che la nozione che il Locatelli sembra avere del 
viaggiare, come attestano, non foss’ altro, le tante suggestioni 0 notazioni di poetica 
rilevabili in tutta l’opera, non si discosta molto da quella qui illustrata dal 
Buonamico. Da un lato, é vero, nella dedica dell’ ultima stesura del 1693 al fratello 
Cristoforo, “Dottore Colegiato,” viene da lui accordata la preminenza allo studiare 
sul viaggiare come fonte di conoscenza: “O perché ne’ nostri discendenti di tutto 
cid resti perpetua memoria ho voluto mettere in faccia di queste mie vagabonde 
leggerezze il vostro nome, per accrescere , quando mi fosse possibile, quella gloria 
che non wiaggiando, ma studiando, vi siete guadagnata ben grande nella nostra 
patria.” (p. 43; corsivo mio). E in un tono ancor pid esplicitamente apologetico 
ribadira a commento di un accadimento spiacevole, sempre nella stessa stesura del 
1693: “E cid pensando, arrivai a detestare la mia troppo vana curiosita, ch’ esposto 
m’avea a tante spese et a tanti pericoli, quando sarebbe stato meglio badare allo 
Studio e vivere con santa pace nella casa natia e con una vita esemplare servire a 
Dio et a’ prossimi miei.” (p. 111; corsivo mio). Da unaltro, pero, lo spirito critico 
del viaggiatore Locatelli gli detta passi nei quali da al lettore istruzioni di questo 
tenore: “E buon consiglio a chi viaggia di cercar sempre di salire su qualche grande 
altezza, per potere in una sola occhiata dire con verita d’aver veduta tutta la citta 
senza aver bisogno di adimandar sovente ove sia l’alloggio; s’osservi particolarmente 
il sito della piazza, nella quale ordinariamente sogliono poner capo tutte le strade 
maestre; ed in tale occasione bisognerebbe aver seco una persona pratica del paese, 
et il forestiere fosse curioso in dimandare. A che servirebbe /’andar in volta, se 
non si cercasse di vedere e saper quello che é pii di rimarco ne’ luoghi ov’un si 
trova?” (p. 75, BA, ma aggiunta in P per le ultime righe; corsivo mio). 

In ogni caso, l’opera del Locatelli pud dirsi esemplare del nuovo modo di 
viaggiare e di scriver relazioni di viaggio. II filo che lega ed ordina gli avvenimenti 
€ quello tenue della successione dei giorni impiegati per andare da Bologna a Parigi 
e viceversa, toccando I’ Italia settentrionale , la Savoia, la Svizzera; e tutto lo sforzo 
dello scrittore, disceso al livello di diarista, si concentra nel tentativo di segnalare 
i frequenti mutamenti di scena che si verificano nelle tappe di viaggio da una locanda 
all’altra, da una chiesa all’altra, da un palazzo all’altro. Dappertutto il viaggiatore 
narratore, animato da un vivo senso di curiosita e di avventura, si guarda intorno 


12. Giovanni Mangion, “Giovan Francesco Buonamico, scienziato e letterato maltese del 
Seicento,” Studi secenteschi, XII (1972), 300-303. 





Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa 237 


| e commenta, loda o si lamenta dell’ ospitalita delle case dei notabili locali o dei 

-conventi, gusta le delizie della cucina o dei vini regionali, distingue e apprezza le 

opere d’arte, l’architettura di citta, chiese e castelli, osserva con sagacia i compagni 
_ di viaggio e quelli occasionali che incontra, con amore raccoglie quanto ad essi 
si riferisce, rileva con salace spirito d’osservazione le caratteristiche fisiche e le 
: abitudini di vita di nobili e popolani. In breve, l’esperienza di viaggio, servita da 
| non comuni doti di osservatore, da risultati interessanti anche se non c’é nel Locatelli 
| nessun chiaro proposito di sistemazione filosofica del materiale.'* Un capitolo 
. a parte nell’economia del Viaggio pud considerarsi quello costituito dalle notizie 
_ curiose e interessanti sul culto e sulla liturgia nelle regioni visitate, con particolare 
insistenza e gusto quando si tratti di monache e del loro mondo. L’antecedente 
| italiano pid notevole di questo tipo di scrittura di viaggio é forse quello offerto dal 


| 


| romano Bernardo Bizoni nella Relazione in forma di viaggio che corse per diverse 


| provincie d’Europa il sig. V. Giustiniani, che il Locatelli non poteva conoscere, 
| perché rimasta inedita e pubblicata integralmente per la prima volta da Anna Banti 
soltanto nel 1942.'* Appare estremamente difficile escludere invece che il Locatelli 
non avesse letto il Viaggio in Ponente a San Giacomo di Galitia di Domenico Laffi, 
( come lui sacerdote bolognese, apparso in prima edizione nel 1673 e ristampato ben 
_ sei volte fra questa data e il 1738.'° 


13. Gia il D’Ancona concludeva che il Locatelli non era certamente uomo dotato di “molta 
| coltura, né ... forte nella lingua francese”, ma prowvisto delle “qualita non comuni, che Gaston 
| Paris riconosceva generalmente ai viaggiatori italiani: cioé molta curiosita di vedere, e molta 
attitudine a veder giusto” (p. 76). Sul Locatelli osservatore di luoghi e costumi hanno 
| commentato con dovizia di particolari: Giorgio De Piaggi, “Curiosita e costumi della Francia 
secentesca tratti dal diario di Sebastiano Locatelli,” Studi francesi, XXVIII (1984), 75-92; 
. e Luigi Monga, “Pagine di vita milanese nel diario di un prete bolognese del Seicento,” 
_ Libri e documenti, XIV, 1 (1988), 88-95; “Note sulla Genova secentesca nel diario di 
Sebastiano Locatelli (1664),” Genova Tre, XVII, n° 63 (1988); “Torino secentesca in due 
redazioni del Viaggio di Francia di Sebastiano Locatelli (1666 e 1693),” Studi piemontesi, 
| XVIII, 1 (1989), 213-228. Pid in generale, sull’idea o immagine della realta cittadina nell’eta 
premoderna si veda |’acuto saggio di Alberto Tenenti, “L’immagine di Genova nella letteratura 
| di viaggio: secc. XVII-XVIII” in Civilta della parola, a cura di Italo Bertoni (Milano: 
Marzorati, 1989), pp. 105-120. 


14. Europa milleseicentosei: diario di viaggio (Milano-Roma, Rizzoli, 1942). Bernardo 
Bizoni, segretario di Vincenzo Giustiniani, marchese di Bassano, compose nel 1606 
| quest’opera, che ha un interesse speciale nell’ambito della letteratura artistica. 


15. A Santiago di Compostella il Laffi si recd ben tre volte: nel 1666 con don Morando 
Conti, Nicold Mantuani e Francesco Magnani, nel 1670 col pittore Domenico Codici, da 
ultimo nel 1673 con fra Giuseppe Lipparini. L’edizione pit nota dell’ opera é la terza: Viaggio 
in Ponente a San Giacomo di Galitia e Finisterre di D. Domenico Laffi, bolognese; aggiuntovi 
molte curiosita dopo il suo terzo viaggio a quelle parti... In Bologna: per gli eredi del Pisarri, 
1681. Sulla vita e le opere del Laffi, si veda l’introduzione alla recente edizione del Viaggio 
in Ponente di Anna Sulai Capponi (Napoli: Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane, 1989). Fu poeta 
dialettale, autore di numerose opere drammatiche e resocontista di viaggi di devozione. 
Interessanti puntualizzazioni sull’opera offre Lucrezia Porto Bucciarelli, “Dal Viaggio in 


238 ALBERT N. MANCINI 


Quanto alla trama del Viaggio di Francia, per economia di spazio, scorcio 

lordine delle suddivisioni pit importanti per dare un’idea del metodo di costruire 
che presiede alla stesura dell’ opera e dello schema compositivo seguito dall’autore 
nel ristrutturare i suoi appunti. II primo libro contiene, oltre la dedica, una guida — 
storico-geografica, “Dell’aria e di diverse cose che servono di mantenimento — 
all’uomo nella Francia,” divisa in capitoletti (pp. 6-16), e la relazione di viaggio | 
nell’ Italia settentrionale (Pavia, Milano, Genova, Torino) e la Savoia fino a Lione, 
compresa fra le date 22 aprile e 7 ottobre 1664. II libro secondo é diviso in due | 
sezioni. La prima consiste nel racconto del viaggio da Lione a Parigi (31 ottobre-24 | 
novembre 1664), per buona parte in barca (pp. 120-150). La seconda comprende 
la relazione della visita del cardinale Chigi, nipote di Alessandro VII, presentata 
in retrospettiva perché avvenuta il 9 agosto 1664 (pp. 151-181; questa relazione 
viene eliminata nella redazione del 1693); e il racconto di quanto il narratore ha 
osservato “dentro e fuori di Parigi,” con il titolo “Informatione di diverse cose che 
sono le pit: belle e pit principali della citta di Parigi e suoi distretti” (pp. 159-196). 
Il libro terzo racconta il viaggio di ritorno in Italia, fatto, in compagnia di altri 
viaggiatori, fra cui i marchesi Prospero e Ludovico Gonzaga, |l’abate Ludovico 
Vigarani di Reggio e il conte romano Giovan Battista Anguisciola. Viene ripresa 
la struttura diaristica (dall’8 maggio al principio di luglio 1665, ma la redazione 
del 1693 porta la data 13 giugno), interrotta all’arrivo a Parigi (p. 198, BA). La 
preferenza per la forma diaristica viene sottolineata, oltre che con le necessarie 
indicazioni di data e luogo, con frequenti interpolazioni conclusive, a volte aggiunte 
nell’ultima stesura (“Pit scriverei se il sonno non mi sollecitasse al riposo, ma il 
capo, non avvezzo allo stridore del pagliariccio, non so se vorra dormire cosi 
facilmente come mi persuado, proviamolo un poco” (p. 70, P). “Concludo la 
presente giornata col dire che Milano é una gran citta, abbondante di tutte le cose, 
ed anco di vino ...”, p. 89, P).'® 

Vero € che nel Viaggio il metodo del diario-cronaca, desunto dalla sola 
esperienza diretta della realta, non riesce a prevalere completamente sulla pratica 
tradizionale della relazione di viaggio nella descrizione, cosi come non riesce a far 





Ponente: Gli itinerari ispanici del bolognese Laffi,” Quaderni di filologia e lingue romanze. — 
Universita di Macerata. Supplemento Terza Serie, VII (1992), 206-240. 


16. “Premessa” a Le forme del diario. Quaderni di retorica e poetica, I (Padova: Liviana, 
1985), 8. Per il Folena la storia moderna di diario nella nuova accezione individuale fino 
al journal philosophique e al journal intime sembra cominciare nella letteratura italiana con 
l’Alfieri, che coi giovanili “Giornali” poi con gli “Annali”, titoli peraltro non adoperati 
dall’autore, ci offrirebbe, in relazione con la Vita, uno dei casi pit: suggestivi e illuminanti 
del rapporto fra diario e autobiografia. Sui rapporti fra il diario di viaggio e la lettera di 
ragguaglio va segnalato il saggio introduttivo “Vedere per il principe” di Maria Luisa Doglio 
in Lorenzo Magalotti, Diario di Francia dell’anno 1668 (Palermo: Sellerio, 1991). 





Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa 239 


dimenticare le fonti d’informazione erudite.'’ In Italia, come osserva Gianfranco 
Folena, il termine diario, che peraltro il Locatelli non adopera, compare nel 
Cinquecento soltanto nell’accezione antica di registrazione quotidiana di eventi 
pubblici. “Come forma specifica di memoria e autoanalisi quotidiana di un individuo, 
e talora insieme o anche soltanto di societa”, precisa lo studioso, il diario riceve 
“la sua impronta moderna decisiva fra Sei e Settecento in stretto rapporto con la 
coscienza della personalita e della costruzione dell’esperienza individuale analizzata 
dagli empiristi inglesi”, quando nascono le forme letterarie pseudo-diaristiche, 
pseudo-epistolari e pseudo-autobiografiche che costituiranno le strutture portanti 
del romanzo moderno.'* 

Insidiosi sono dunque i problemi posti dalla struttura composita dell’ opera del 
Locatelli. Cid nonostante, per limitarci in questa sede al solo rapporto fra diario 
e autobiografia, la risposta al quesito narratologico posto in limine deve tener conto 
della rilevanza di un principio ordinatore che organizza una serie di frammenti, 
del metodo seguito dall’autore nella selezione e nella sistemazione del materiale; 
avventure di viaggio e dilocanda, osservazione sui costumi delle popolazioni, visite 
ai monumenti delle citta e dei borghi attraversati, specialmente chiese, conventi, 
musei. Colpisce la presenza costante dell’autore attivo con la sua ottica culturale 
e con i suoi affetti personali in ogni avventura vissuta e in tutte in modo specifico 
e assolutizzante. In ultima analisi, il diario di viaggio si scrive perché |’interlocutore 
del resoconto, il lettore, desuma da una prosa franta i segnali di una presenza 
ecumenica ed onnicomprensiva della coscienza dell’autore. Nella sezione dedicata 
alla visita a Genova si legge: “II torbido che sopportavo nel capo non mi lascid 
gustare le delicie di quel giorno, ma non per questo lasciai di vederle e di ammirarle 
insieme e di notarle la sera git alla peggio, com’é solito mio” (p. 104, le parole 
in corsivo sono aggiunte in P). Ma gia nell’avvertenza al lettore della redazione 
del 1666 il Locatelli c’introduce nel suo laboratorio: 


Per corrispondere in qualche parte alle molte mie ubbligazioni, che professero 
mai sempre a quei benigni signori che tanto nell’andare a Parigi quanto nel ritornare 
alla patria si compiacquero di volermi in lor compagnia, da uno di loro cosi 
comandato, mi sono disposto fin che ho la memoria fresca, a trascrivere cid che 
allora di giorno in giorno notai in un mio picciolo libriciuolo, ancorché la mia 
ignoranza e poverta di stile non sia per guadagnarmi che poca riputazione appresso 
coloro alle cui mani capiteranno questi miei scriiti. (p. 362; le aggiunte di P in 
corsivo) 


L’autore é consapevole della complessita della prosa di viaggio, cronaca, 


17. Sulle fonti geografiche e guide per i viaggiatori utilizzate dal Locatelli, cfr. la dotta 
introduzione di Luigi Monga, in ispecie le pp. 33-34. 


18. Quest’avvertenza al lettore, precisa Monga (p. 198, nota b), é ripresa nel ms P alla fine 
del primo incontro con Luigi XIV nella chiesa di Saint-Germain. 


240 ALBERT N. MANCINI 


catalogo e scrittura al tempo stesso. Si legga, a scopo d’esemplificazione , questo 
commento del narratore alla visita di un monastero di Lione, effettuata in data 7 
ottobre 1664: 


Tornero a seguir la giornata, dopo si lungo e geniale divertimento, ma compatisci, 
o Lettore amorevole, se mi trovi andar saltando qua e 1a, perché non é mai stato 
mio mestiero di compor libri. E quando cominciai a scriver questo, pensavo di 
sbrigarmene con pochi pit fogli di quello [che] era il librettino dove notavo a di 
per di le cose che mi accadevano et andavo vedendo. Mi sono accorto ancora 
che vi € questo errore, et é che nell’aggiungere, per dir cosi, con pili chiarezza 
la cosa, non ho osservato che bisognava ragionare come di cosa passata, non pil 
presente, e mettendomi bene in testa il gia scritto, scrivere come dettava |’intelletto 
€ non capire la cosa come stava scritta nel libricino. (p. 165, P) 


Veridicita della diaristica di viaggio, dunque; autenticita degli eventi e attualita 
delle descrizioni, ma anche interpretazione della nuova realta sperimentata attraverso 
e nel corso del viaggio. II narratore avverte continuamente il lettore dello stato 
artificiale della scrittura. Per esempio, citando quasi a caso dal commento autoriale 
al racconto di un incidente spiacevole: “Orsi, rimettiamoci a tavola e discorriamo 
di cose allegre, che pit allegre non dansi a chi ha bisogno di ristoro che una buona 
cena” (p. 188). O si veda con quanta spregiudicatezza il narratore da principio 
al resoconto del soggiorno parigino: 


Pid non mi regolaro a giornate, per non multiplicar senza proposito le ciarle: se 
occorrera; qualche cosa degna dimemoria, la notero sotto quel giorno [che] l’averd 
osservata. Non vorrei pensassi, 0 Lettore, fosse stato mio pensiero amplificar 
quel tanto [che] vedro in Parigi, perché ormai a’ nostri gentiluomini e cittadini 
saranno si note le cose di questa citta per la frequenza de’ viandanti paesani, che 
facilmente potrei incorrere nel biasimo de’ bugiardi. Credi dunque a quanto 
leggerai, perché poco sarebbe per complirmi in scriver cose che dalla sera alla 
matina puoi venire in chiaro. (p. 198, BA) 


Ma tutto questo, in fondo, fa parte del costruire narrativo, e, se pud senz’altro 
disorientare il lettore meno esperto, presenta indubbiamente in modo efficace e 
immediato lo scontro delle forme narrative (nell’ ultima citazione , diario e relazione 
di viaggio) o la sovrapposizione tra le diverse prospettive che operano in concreto 
nella composizione delle diverse versioni dell’opera. Per l’ultimo problema, si 
legga almeno il commento conclusivo della gia ricordata sezione sul soggiorno 
parigino: 


Orst, o Lettore, io vo accostandomi al fine di questo libro, pid breve d’ogni altro, 
€ puo essere che finora io non abbia con tante dicerie incontrato il tuo genio, 
perché, rapito il cuore dalla fragranza amirabile de’ bei gigli di Francia, desideravi 
di vedere il suo monarca com’un Ercole con la clava alla mano che domasse piu 
mostri inimici della sua corona, et io te I’ho quasi fatto vedere con la conocchia 
alla mano star filando vicino della dea della bellezza. Ma consolati, perché, 
arrivatimi al cuore i tuoi giusti lamenti, ora m’accingo a rappresentartelo quale 








Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa 241 


appunto il desideri e quale spero il vedrai fra poco tempo vincitore dell’Idre piu 
formidabili con brando, non pit trionfante per Veneri sottomesse dalla sua 
generosita e rara bellezza. Leggi adunque con attenzione, non in fretta cid che 
segue, e spero che sara con tuo gusto (p. 245, BA). 


Su questo punto delle forme che assicurano una pit pronta e stabile recezione del 
pubblico, il Locatelli ha fiuto fine. II lettore é per lui una presenza complice e 
rassicurante. Come si pud rilevare dai seguenti stralci, le testimonianze pertinent 
a tal proposito sono molto esplicite: “ma torniamo due passi” (p. 97, P); “Ma 
torniamo al nostro racconto” (p. 164, P); “Oh, quanto dovrei dire delle compassione- 
voli espressioni ch’udii dalla bocca della Madre Broglia per l’infermita del nostro 
cavaliere, ma lascerO quest’uffitio a’ doni che susseguirono, per non mostrarmi 
‘su le prime soglie della Francia restato senza cuore” (p. 130, BA); “Lettore, sara 
meglio per me, e forse per te ancora, che non dichi altro. Si discorse, si ride, e 
passarono due ore come un batter d’occhio. L’aver detto messa e ricevuta si bella 
impressione per la veduta d’Agnese, come per esser presente 11 compagno, credi 
‘pure che furono cose che obbligarono a stare in un modesto contegno la mia 
bestialita” (p. 130, BA).'° 
Il narratore del Viaggio é responsabile dell’ordine, dell’uso del tempo e dei 
modi di percepire del lettore. La presenza preminente dell’autore é spesso avvertibile 
nei libri di viaggio del Seicento; essa si spiega col sorgere di uno spirito critico, 
sviluppato poi nel Settecento, che tende a ridiscutere l’ampio bagaglio delle 
conoscenze acquisite attraverso l’esperienza del viaggiare. La voce dell’autore é 
una voce di commento; non é pit solo volta a dare veridicita al racconto. Nel 
| Viaggio del Locatelli l’interpretazione della realta appresa trova espressione molto 
-esplicitamente come scrittura 0, meglio ancora, riscrittura. Nel passo seguente, 
Stralciato dall’ episodio del tentativo di seduzione di una bella ostessa (2 novembre 
1664), l’autore del diario di viaggio rilegge, in traduzione francese per di pil, ad 
un personaggio quello che é andato scrivendo di lei. “Mentre i compagni s’andavano 
spogliando, serviti cortesissimamente dalla bella vedova cameriera, [...] 10 me ne 
'Stavo al tavolino, scrivendo (conforme al solito d’ogni sera prima d’andarmene a 
letto) quanto hai letto sin’ora; et entrati che furono in letto, assentatamisi a canto 
la bella, non volse partire fin tanto [che] io non ebbi compita questa faccenda, e 
poi con duplicata mia pena volse leggessi e dichiarassi in francese tutto lo scritto, 
‘compiacendosi molto, per quello [che] m’accorsi, della gran lode ch’avevo dato 
ialla sua rara bellezza” (p. 178, P). Un posto a parte assume naturalmente il 
: contegno imposto dal difetto di memoria invocato come attenuante dal resocontista: 


19. Il passo é tratto dalla visita alla contessa Broglio di Torino, uno degli episodi pit audaci 
dell’opera. Il Monga (p. 130, nota b) avverte che nel ms BA ci sono cinque righe 
accuratamente cancellate e che altri tagli sono apportati nel testo della redazione del 1693 
(p. 131. nota b). E’ evidente che il Locatelli si preoccupa di dimostrare, anche a distanza 
di anni, di aver fatto del suo meglio per evitare le occasioni di peccare. 


242 ALBERT N. MANCINI 


“Tl desinare fu buonissimo e di mio genio, perché in tutte le cose mettono I’erbe. 
La minestra poi fu cosi regalata che me ne feci dare un’altra, essendoci dentro certe 
radichette fresche aromatiche [...]. Dissero veramente come si chiamavano, ma 
ora che ne scrivo non ne ho memoria. Posso dire che sono simili alle radiche delle 
nostre carote selvatiche” (p. 111, BA); “Mentre questi camina, io attenderd a 
scrivere cosa che dovrebbe, o Lettore, molto dilettarti, perché singolare. Mi scordavo 
di dire che i capuzzini nella Francia confessano e servono per capellani a molte 
confraternite, non perd confessano donne” (p. 157, P). 

Il narratore mutua dal repertorio di tematiche e tropi del genere odeporico ed 
entra perfino in sottintesa emulazione coi diversi modelli narrativi che la tradizione 
gli offre. Beninteso, si parte da ricordi letterari a grado zero, da formule decostruite 
e ricostruite secondo uno spaccato dominato da semplificazione, un modo di 
ricondurre la letteratura alla spazio vulgato delle formule quotidiane. Ne é un 
esempio il racconto dell’avventura occorsa in data 2 novembre 1664, durante il 
viaggio fra Lione e Parigi, emblematico per la molteplicita di spunti che offre, come 
pud desumersi anche dal seguente, per necessita riduttivo, schema riassuntivo: 
viaggio disagiato in barca; sosta in un villaggio disabitato, ma provvisto di una 
osteria eccezionale; descrizione grottesca di un interno di chiesa povera e brutta, 
dove si sta celebrando uno strano funerale; festa da ballo, rallegrata dalla presenza 
di due bellissime giovani (“Lasciato questo luogo di tanta mestizia, caminassimo 
per vedere tutto il paese: ma che? Appena fatti pochi passi, fossimo arrestati dallo 
stupore, facendoci inanzi due giovani che a due Veneri le assomigliarei, se tante 
ne avesse avute il cielo della gentilita [...]. Ci pareva essersi avverato 11 racconto 
di qualcheduno di quei romanzi che descritti da penne eccellenti fan prova nella 
descrittione delle lor deita si belle da far languire i lettore o morir di spasimo per 
la voglia di vedere donne si vaghe”, p. 176-177, BA). Le pagine meglio riuscite 
giocano con un certo virtuosismo su diverse forme narrative: diario e guida di 
viaggio, con rapide annotazioni degli eventi e degli incidenti occorsigli durante le 
successive tappe del percorso e modelli narrativi comico-burleschi: dialogo, 
“capitolo” o lettera burlesca, racconto autobiografico, ma soprattutto racconto comico 
e romanzo picaresco.” 


20. Cfr. Paul Fussell, Abroad. British Literary Traveling between the Wars (New York- 
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1980), pp. 206-209. I] Fussell ascrive appunto al senso 
dell’avventuroso e del meraviglioso e alla deformazione comico/grottesca il fascino anche 
del libro di viaggio moderno. A monte dell’esercizio stilistico di realismo comico del Locatelli 
€ opportuno segnalare almeno le due lettere burlesche di Giovan Battista Marino sulle quali 
si veda il recente articolo di Angelo Colombo, “Torino-Parigi 1615. Periegesi mariniane,” 
Philologica, Il, 4 (1993), 71-89; ei “capitoli piacevoli” di Antonio Abbondanti (“Il viaggio 
di Colonia” e “Il viaggio da Colonia a Treviri” (1627), per i quali si rimanda a Umberto 
Limentani, “In Germania e nel Belgio con un viaggiatore del Seicento,” Studi secenteschi, 
II (1961), 119-144. Si veda inoltre sul diario del viaggio a Torino (1606) dell’ambasciatore 
veneziano Pietro Contarini, scritto in chiave umoristica da Benedetto Zorzi: Luigi Monga, 





Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa 243 


Fin qui l’io narrante non é ancora il me, e cioé il personaggio creato, 
l’autoritratto che il Locatelli disegna nel Viaggio, problema critico fondamentale 
per ogni scrittura autobiografica. Come si é gia accennato, il Viaggio noné soltanto 
un “diario,” il giornale retrospettivo di un viaggio, un resoconto di esperienze , 
osservazioni, incontri avvenuti, ma anche un’autobiografia. Come tale, infatti, 
rispetta l’identita di un autore-narratore-personag gio, vero centro “illocutoire” 
dell’autobiografia.”1_Presenta cioé una filza di avventure di viaggio, collegate 
unicamente dalla figura del narratore-protagonista posta quale filo ordinatore e 
principio di unificazione delle vicende. Nel Viaggio l’asse autobiografico si accampa 
nel senso che la narrazione viene filtrata per scelta esplicita attraverso la figura 
dell’autore. Il narratore-protagonista, specie quello della terza stesura del 1693, 
si presenta come personaggio in possesso di maturita e coscienza che le esperienze 
di viaggio hanno arricchito non solo quantitativamente; lo spaccato efficace della 
sua figura di uomo maturo che ha compiuto tramite la scrittura uno scarto cosciente 
dal giornale di viaggio all’autobiografia, dunque, tra realta e finzione, novita ed 
esperienza di vita.” 

Di conseguenza, il narratore @ sempre un accorto amministratore della sua 
immagine pubblica, una strategia che non esclude affatto una vena di divertita auto- 
ironia che basta a confermare come l’autore sia implicato a fondo nel costume 
secentesco, in una certa odeporica improntata a comico realismo. Si pensi solo 


alla scena di apertura del viaggio di ritorno: 


... lasciato il lido e di veder Parigi, ci trovassimo fra una spopolata citta che apunto 
sembrava ripiena delle semivive reliquie del fugitivo popolo troiano. Tra le grida 
delle donne e de’ piccioli fanciulli, fra i disordini delle amazzate genti che 
mendicavano un palmo di luogo, ci parea esser passati dalle delitie del paradiso 
alla funesta barca di Caronte, all’onde stigie. Io, pero, montato sopra certe balle 
di mercantie, quasi in trono, stando spettatore in un istesso punto di certe comedie 
che tutte ad un tempo si rapresentavano, apena potei compire all’ obligo dell’ uffitio. 
(p.4253;41) 


“L’Ambasciata a Torino di Pietro Contarini,” Studi piemontesi, XXI, 1 (1992), 209-225. 


21. Cfr. E. Bruss, “L’Autobiographie considérée comme acte littéraire,” Poétique, n.17 


J 


(1974). Per non appesantire l’apparato delle note si é omesso il riferimento ai pi0 noti studi 
metodologici recenti sul genere letterario dell’autobiografia. 


22. Sui requisiti del racconto autobiografico si rimanda ad Andrea Battistini, “L’autobiografia 


(ei modelli narrativi secenteschi” in Cultura meridionale e letteratura italiana. I modelli 
| narrativi dell’eta moderna. Atti dell’XI Congresso dell’AISLLI, a cura di P. Giannantonio 
| (Napoli: Loffredo, 1985), pp. 145-190; ora in “I simulacri di Narciso,” in Lo specchio di 
_ Dedalo. Autobiografia e biografia (Bologna: Il Mulino, 1990). Per il Battistinil’autobiografia 


implica l’esistenza di un soggetto di narrazione come unica fonte e centro del racconto, ma 
il soggetto dell’autobiografia non é un’essenza a priori, ma una finzione culturale e linguistica; 
Vio dell’autobiografia non si presenta come un dato oggettivo, ma come una costruzione, 
un’invenzione personale. 


244 ALBERT N. MANCINI 


Per definire l’atteggiamento del Locatelli viaggiatore e autobiografo conta la sua 
origine aristocratica, la sua provenienza dall’Italia e soprattutto la sua condizione 
di sacerdote. Questa condizione impone un continuo riscontro critico della realta, 
raffrontata alla civilta della sua patria, grande e piccola. II motivo conduttore é 
la tendenza del protagonista del Viaggio di complimentarsi con se stesso per la 
resistenza del suo fisico alle intemperie e agli inconvenienti del viaggio, e per la 
resistenza opposta alle tentazioni offerte dalle innumerevoli seducenti donne incontrate 
(ostesse, cameriere, monache e dame dell’aristocrazia).** Predominante in 
situazioni simili é l’identita fra il narratore e il protagonista della narrazione, tra 
Pio che ricorda e scrive e il me che vive ed é ricordato. Cosi come decisa é la 
prevalenza, in modo particolare nelle aggiunte all’ultima redazione, del progetto 
autobiografico su quello odeporico. 

Dopo quanto s’é detto, non puod sorprendere che il fondamento della scrittura 
e della lettura dell’opera del Locatelli vada ricercato anzitutto in una motivazione 
autogiustificatoria, anche autoapologetica: |l’autore-protagonista é degno del suo 
attuale status di religioso membro di una congregazione severa come quella 
dell’Oratorio. Nella redazione del 1693 il Viaggio si apre con la gia citata lettera 
dell’autore sessantenne al fratello, che presenta un bilancio in cui le considerazioni 
sui possibili errori commessi per inesperienza e ingenuita, piuttosto che per volonta 
trasgressoria, durante la trasferta in Francia di trent’anni prima, sono temperate 
dal bisogno di una autovalorizzazione del sé. Opportuno a tal proposito é il rimando 
a talune polemiche dichiarazioni programmatiche dell’avvertenza al lettore che 
conclude l’opera nella stessa redazione: 


Prima io dico che non so vedere dove cavino molti del popolaccio occasione di 
tanto scandalizzarsi, non essendo in sostanza il mio libro che seminato di sole 
chiarle e di pericoli di far ancor de’ fatti in materie sensuali. ... Fondano la ragione 
dello scandalo sul dire che la penna di un sacerdote non doveva stendere cose tanto 
lubriche su’ fogli, sulla fidanza che l’eta di soli trent’anni fosse per renderlo 
incolpabile appresso i prudenti, perché Paolo non vuol né meno concedere che 
con enigmi si parli di cose impure. ... Si pud concedere vi poss’essere qualche 
colpa leggiera, con tutto cid non mi si neghera che non aver potuto soddisfare 
all’integrita e nettezza del discorso chiestomi da un mio si riverito padrone (che 
per lo pit n’é stato testimone oculare), se avessi taciuto cid che puod scandalizzare 
i pusilli; e poi mi sarei creduto che le due copie ch’ oltre di questa son fuori avesser 
dovuto capitare nelle mani d’ognuno, e fin contorsere i fatti pit lubrici per le 
piazze, perché se mi fossi cid imaginato avrei con prontezza eseguiti gl’impulsi 
dello Spirito Santo, quando mi sentii invitato a donarlo alle fiamme, subito che 
con le mie robbe mi giunse da Fossombrone a Bologna. (p. 358, P) 


Orbene, é certo che il Viaggio, cosi povero di spessore introspettivo, non é 


23. Cfr. “Introduzione” all’edizione di L. Monga, pp. 23-24. 





Autobiografia e autocoscienza narrativa 245 


un’opera che possa rientrare nella prospettiva della letteratura autobiografica 
secentesca che privilegia il ripiegamento in senso intimista, moralistico-religioso 
dell’ autore-protagonista, del tipo, per intenderci, delle coeve Confessioni di un Carlo 
De’ Dottori.% In realta, cid che ne rende particolarmente affascinante la lettura 
é proprio la tensione mai risolta tra il realismo del diario-cronaca di viaggio, genere 
squisitamente referenziale, e il progetto autobiografico dell’ormai anziano autore 
che mettendo mano a “questa terza copia” dell’unica, per quanto si sa, sua fatica 
letteraria non vuole pit soltanto raccontare quello che ha fatto e visto, ma dare una 
interpretazione pid lucida di un’esperienza che ha segnato una rottura profonda nella 
sua tranquilla, ma forse monotona, vita di prete di provincia; di una storia privata, 
inesauribile, esemplare nel sentimento dell’unicita. 


The Ohio State University 


24. Confessioni di Eleuterio Duralete (Padova, per Serafino Spera, 1696). Cfr. la densa 
introduzione alla ristampa anastatica dell’autobiografia dottoriana di Antonio Daniele (Padova, 
1987). 


STEFANIA BUCCINI 


Coerenza metodologica 
nel Giro del mondo 
di Giovanni Francesco Gemelli Careri 


Il 13 giugno del 1693 Giovanni Francesco Gemelli Careri (1651-1725), gia noto 
al contemporanei per i suoi viaggi e ricordato anche da Parini negli “Sciolti per 
un’accademia di geografia” (Parini I:374)', si accinge a compiere il periplo della 
terra lasciandone testimonianza nel Giro del mondo, un reportage pubblicato a Napoli 
dall’editore Roselli nel 1699-1700. Tra le varie edizioni che nel corso di trent’ anni 
seguono a quella napoletana, va certamente ricordata quella veneziana del 1719, 
riveduta e ampliata con quei ragguagli economici e commerciali che al Gemelli 
era stato rimproverato di aver trascurato nelle precedenti?. L’autore, tuttavia, pur 
venendo incontro alle esigenze dei mercanti con questa redazione dell’ opera, tiene 
a precisare che l’autentica “vaghezza del viaggiare” non deve essere in alcun modo 
violata dall’ “amor del guadagno”: 


Egli € adunque non solo utilissimo, ma comodo, ed onesto il viaggiare alla 
mercantile; purché l’amor del guadagno non s’impadronisca si fattamente dell’animo 
nostro, che ne faccia trasandare il verace frutto, che deesi da somiglianti fatiche 
raccorre; e cioé la contezza de’ riti, e della religione de’ vari popoli; e la dilettevole 
osservazione delle cose naturali, e degli edifici, ed altre di simil fatta. (1:2) 


Calabrese, dottore in legge, governatore di alcune citta del viceregno di Napoli, 


1. “... Or, se piacevi,/mi domandate di quali provincie/sia composto ogni regno; e quai 
piu celebri/citta vi sieno; e che cosa significhi/stretto, istmo, golfo, seno, promontorio,/e 
capo e baia ed isola e penisola/e quant’altro vi par; ché tosto udretemi/risponder franco piu 
che non potrebbevi/rispondervi Piero De la Valle o il celebre/dottor Gemelli, i quali 
viaggiarono/piu tempo assai di me ...” 


> “Avendo io nell’animo deliberato di ristampare il mio Giro del mondo, di cui le copie 


erano cominciate a divenire alquanto rare, pit di quello, che mai avrei dovuto, 0 potuto 
sperare; convenevol cosa emmi paruto, in questa seconda edizione soddisfare il desiderio 
de’ curiosi, e di quei, che han vaghezza di viaggiare. I quali ogni cosa diceano trovarsi ne 
i miei libri, fuor che quelle notizie, che alle spese, alle strade, e alle mercatanzie si 
appartengono”. (1:12) 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


Coerenza metodologica nel Giro del mondo di Gemelli Careri 247 


Gemelli Careri inizia il giro del mondo circa un secolo dopo Francesco Carletti’, 
un po’ per sfuggire all’ostilita di alcuni nemici, un po’ per spirito di avventura, 
partendo dalla citta partenopea per |’Oriente. Dopo varie soste in Egitto, in Turchia, 
in Persia, in India e in Cina si imbarca per le Filippine e da qui per la Nuova Spagna 
dove rimane per circa un anno. Infine, dopo un lustro in cui si é ripetutamente 
esposto “al rischio di rimaner preda di pesci, o di fiere, o di uomini pit che 
selvaggi” (A chi legge 1:2), ritorna sano e salvo a Napoli nel 1698, dove é ricevuto 
dai suoi amici e congiunti con gli onori che si addicono ad un sopravvissuto: 


Finiti gli scambievoli e cari abbracciamenti, ci ponemmo in carrozza; e, fatte 
quattro altre miglia, entrammo nella tanto desiderata citta di Napoli: e cosi compii 
in fine il GIRO DEL MONDO, dopo cinque anni, 5 mesi e 20 giorni; appunto 
il di festivo di S. Francesco Saverio, Apostolo dell’Indie, e Protettore de’ 
Viaggianti. (VI:278) 


Il Giro del mondo, diviso in sei volumi *, inizia con un dettagliato Catalogo 
de’ viaggiatori e delle loro opere (1, 15-19)’ seguito da un breve capitolo di 
avvertimenti ai mercanti e di consigli al lettore o ipotetico viaggiatore sui possibili 
itinerari da scegliere °. Dei quattro percorsi menzionati, qualora si voglia iniziare 
il viaggio da Oriente, Gemelli indica con precisione sia i vantaggi che le difficolta 
e finisce col raccomandare |’ ultimo, da lui parzialmente seguito perché meno 
rischioso: 


Il quarto modo, e pit sicuro sara quello di andare in Costantinopoli, per via di 
Alemagna ed Ungheria; passando per Belgrado, Sofia, Filippopoli, ed Adrianopoli, 


3. Riscoperti da Magalotti, i Ragionamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo di Francesco 
Carletti che nel 1594 aveva compiuto il giro del mondo, sono pubblicati a Firenze soltanto 
nel 1701. Sulla prima edizione dell’opera di Carletti cfr. Guglielminetti 54. 


_ 4. Alcune edizioni sono divise in nove volumi, in quanto includono anche i Viaggi per 
_ l’Europa. 


5. La bibliografia é sistematicamente divisa in Viaggi d’Europa, Viaggid’Asia, Viaggi della 
Palestina, Viaggi di Siam, Cina & c., Viaggi d’Africa, Viaggi d’America. 


| 6. “Dee percid sapersi, che in due modi, convien che si faccia il giro del mondo: per Oriente 
e per Occidente. Per Oriente pud intraprendersi in vari modi. ... I] primo sarebbe, 
imbarcandosi sopra vascelli francesi, inglesi, ollandesi, e portoghesi, che vanno alle Indie 
| orientali, se non fosse il troppo gran pericolo di perder la vita, o almeno la sanita tra orribili 
| tempeste, e penosissime calme, per cui si Vive in grandissimo spavento, o dee l’uomo nutrirsi 
di cibi guasti e corrotti, e di acque verminose, cosi divenute dallo stare bene spesso trenta, 
0 quaranta giorni un vascello immobile sotto la linea equinoziale ... Il secondo modo si € 
| @imbarcarsi in Livorno, oppure in Malta per Alessandria: quindi per lo fiume Nilo, andare 
. al Cairo: nel Cairo trovare imbarco, e sopra uno dei sue vascellli maomettani, che ogni anno 
| partono dal mar Rosso, e vanno alla Mecca: e dalla Mecca imbarcarsi, il ché sara molto 
agevole, per lo golfo persiano; e quindi passare all’Indie Orientali. ... Il terzo modo, pit 
| praticato dagli Europei, si é passare da Livorno ad Alessandretta, od Aleppo, colla spesa 
al pill di dieci pezze da otto”. (I, 2-4) 


248 STEFANIA BUCCINI 


e valicando il Mar Nero, e poscia proseguire il viaggio nello stesso modo che io 
feci, e partitamente in questo volume andero’ dividendo. (I: 4) 


La prima tappa del viaggio verso Oriente é Alessandria, dove Gemelli giunge 
dopo un breve soggiorno nell’isola di Malta. In Egitto visita le piramidi e le descrive 
con la curiosita, la minuzia e la precisione di un viaggiatore del secolo successivo. 
Si deve, infatti, riconoscere che anche se al Settecento illuminato e riformatore 
spettera la palma per |’indagine antropologica e culturale dei popoli esotici, 
un’esigenza di verifica e anche di revisione gia si avverte in un viaggiatore 
dell’ultimo Seicento come Gemelli. Ad esempio, a parte le precise informazioni 
sulla storia, sulla misura e sullo stato delle piramidi, interessanti sono le congetture 
sulla statura degli antichi egizi, a giudicare dalla misura delle mummie e dalla 
grandezza delle tombe: 


Scorgesi ancora dalla misura di questo sepolcro, che gli uomini d’ oggidi sono cosi 
grandi, come erano quelli di tremil’anni addietro; e che noi non siamo mica piu 
piccoli che si furono i nostri bisavoli. (1:72) 


Accanto alle piramidi, affascinano Gemelli anche le antichissime tecniche 
d’imbalsamazione e le mummie ritrovate nelle grotte sotterranee di Menfi, spesso 
profanate dagli arabi per impossessarsi di una lamina d’oro che gli egiziani erano 
soliti depositare sotto la lingua dei defunti’. 

La presenza di ladroni arabi e turchi rappresenta uno degli ostacoli principali 
per la continuazione del viaggio verso Gerusalemme. Qui anche il pellegrinaggio 
nei luoghi santi, dove il viaggiatore si reca con particolare devozione, non puo essere 
che breve ed angoscioso a causa dei predatori maomettani: 


Per ritornare al mio ragionamento, sono questi paesi santissimi, e degni d’infinita 
venerazione per essere innaffiati col preziosissimo sangue del redentore; ma da 
fuggirli all’incontro a cagion de’ Turchi, e degli Arabi, che non lasciano 
maltrattamenti, o ladroneggi da porre in opera contra de’ Cristiani: onde fa di 
mestieri, che il discreto peregrino, subito fatte le sue divozioni, sollecitamente 
Si parta, per sottrarsi all’insolenze di que’ barbari (1:17-18). 


L’insolenza dei turchi rende spiacevole il soggiorno sia a Costantinopoli che 
a Smirne dove Gemelli giunge nel gennaio del 1694. Qui ad aggravare i disagi 
provocati dalla diffidenza dei locali nei confronti dei visitatori stranieri, concorrono 
anche fattori climatici e ambientali come il caldo intollerabile, l’aria malsana, le 
pestilenzie e i terribili terremoti *, i quali inducono il viaggiatore a pronosticare 


7. “Si truova ordinariamente sotto la lingua di questi corpi, una laminetta d’oro, del peso 
di due doppie; e percid gli Arabi guastano tutte le mummie (che poi vendono a’ Turchi, 
e questi a’ Cristani) benché alle volte non ci truovino niente”. (1:78) 


8. “Ogni diletto e passatempo, che mai si truovi in Smirne, vien contrappesato dall’amarezza, 
che cagiona l’abitazione dell’istessa citta, in cui la malignita dell’aria produce febbri 





Coerenza metodologica nel Giro del mondo di Gemelli Careri 249 


“che Smirne, la quale é stata rifatta sei volte, ha da essere finalmente da un 
terremoto rovinata”. (I: 149-150) 

Cosi come ad ogni nazione visitata, anche alla Turchia Gemelli dedica 
sistematicamente varie pagine sui costumi, sullo stato politico, sulla storia locale 
e sulla religione giungendo a delle conclusioni originali riguardo la questione della 
poligamia’, dei serragli e degli eunuchi della corte ottomana'’. Ma pur riproponen- 
dosi una certa asetticita descrittiva e sforzandosi di rimanere imparziale nelle sue 
osservazioni per rispettare l’etica del buon viaggiatore, non nasconde il disappunto 
provocato da alcune sventure personali. E’ imprigionato per equivoco perché si 
reca a visitare una necropoli senza autorizzazione (I: 251); & accusato di essere 
unimpostore perché scambiato per un poco onesto mercante messinese (I:229-232); 
infine, é perfino incolpato di essere un sadico negromante da un funzionario locale 
al quale offre della cioccolata'' (I:153). Dopo queste contrarieta, dichiara col 
suo straordinario umorismo, che non lo abbandona anche nei momenti pit tragici 
del viaggio: 


Tutte queste sciagure mi accaddero nella settimana di Passione: e certamente posso 
dire, che mai a’ miei di’ non ne ho avuta una piu dolorosa, e lagrimevole. (I: 251) 


Il viaggio attraverso la Turchia é, dunque, un’esperienza negativa che rende 
Gemelli insolitamente malinconico” e, varcato il fiume che separa l’impero ottomano 


pestilenziali, ne’ mesi spezialmente di maggio, giugno e luglio; e l’intollerabile caldo che 
si sente nella state, rende nojosa la stessa vita. S’aggiunge a cid la frequenza delle pestilenze 
e dei tremuoti: che, se mancano in uno, non lasciano di farsi sentire nel seguente anno, 
seppellendo gli abitanti e spianando le case”. (I:149-150) 


9. “D’altro canto appo’ i Turchi, la poligamia non accresce punto il numero dei figlioli: 
si per lo maledetto, ed abbominevol vizio, che essi hanno della sodomia; come per I’opera, 
che danno le gelose mogli, a far ciascheduna andare a male il parto della compagna, anche 
per via di veleni, e di fattucchiere”. (1:257) 


10. “Cominciando dagli Eunuchi, che sono i pit stimati della corte, eglino sono di due spezie: 
neri e bianchi. I neri hanno in guardia il fonte delle delizie ottomane, che sono gli 
appartamenti delle donne; e percid si scelgono i pit difformi, che spaventano solamente 
a vedergli. ... Gli Eunuchi bianchi sono semplicemente tagliati, e stanno in custodia degli 
appartamenti del Gran Signore. Ma prima di passare innanzi, si é bene sapere, che dell’uno 
e dell’altro genere sono migliaia in Oriente, non essendovi Maomettano, mezzanamente agiato 
de’ beni di fortuna, il quale non ne abbia molti in guardia delle sue donne. ... Gli uni, e 
gli altri sono superbi, e severi; meno pero i bianchi, che trattano pill umanamente coloro, 
che sono sotto la lor disciplina, né sono cossi sospettosi, e diffidenti, come i neri”. (I:184-185) 


11. “Venne la mattina del Giovedi 10 1’Aga di Seyde a vedermi: al quale avendo fatto dare 
della cioccolata, il buon satiro, che mai avea assaggiato simil bevanda ... si lamento di me 
fieramente; dicendo che gliavea dato qualche licoro velenoso, per farlo impazzire, e perdere 
l’intendimento: e certo se l’alterazione continuava mi avria dato quel disgusto, che io meritava, 
per aver dato cioccolata a un asino”. (I:153) 


12. “Cadde si gran quantita d’acqua il sabato (oltre a quella de’ passati giorni) che in Italia 
si sarebbe detta tempesta; cid che mi tenne buona parte del di’ confinato in casa, con una 


250 STEFANIA BUCCINI 


da quello persiano, confessa con sollievo: 


Non tanto fui dall’altra riva, che mi calai a baciare quel terreno, tanto da me 
sospirato, per vedermi fuori delle turchesche furberie. (I: 134) 


Dopo l’inferno ottomano, il regno persiano si presenta agli occhi del viaggiatore 
come un paradiso terrestre. Con precisione cronologica Gemelli descrive il suo 
itinerario, le tappe e le soste fino a Sultania e alla mitica Ispahan, citta cosmopolita 
e vivace '*. Da qui prosegue verso Sciras, che si distingue per la bonta del vino 
e la leggiadria delle donne, e la vecchia Persepoli dove ha modo di visitare il palazzo 
di Dario. II fascino quasi magnetico di quest’ultimo, degno di essere annoverato 
tra le sette meraviglie del mondo, non puo essere paragonato a quello di altri prodigi 
umani, come, ad esempio, quello delle stesse piramidi egiziane: 


E se non fusse che di presente gli Europei fanno spessi viaggi in Egitto, e 
maravigliose cose narrano di quelle immense piramidi (che in fine altro non sono 
che gran mucchi di pietre, testimonj pit della potenza, e ricchezza, che degl’inge- 
gno degli autori) chi di grazia ne farebbe quel gran concetto, che se ne fa? Or, 
se ugualmente fusse la Persia dagli Europei frequentata, quai lodi non si dariano 
alle reliquie di questo veramente regal palagio, in cui pare, che l’arte abbia fatto 
l’ultime pruove in vincer la natura, colla bellezza degli intagli, e la natura dal suo 
canto in apprestar degna materia a si fatto lavoro? Io per me son di parere, ch’egli 
non solo dovria essere stato annoverato tra le sette maraviglie, per cui tante parole 
spesero gli antichi, ma che non Vi sia stata, né sara mai maraviglia al mondo, che 
possa in alcun conto stargli a paragone. (II:262-263) 


Neanche la corte del Gran Mogol o il palazzo imperiale di Pechino saranno 
in grado di suscitare un simile entusiasmo nel viaggiatore, che si professa fervido 
ammiratore dei persiani in quanto “civili, mansueti, piacevoli, onesti, grati, nemici 
della frode, ed amatori de’ forestieri” (II: 140). Aggiunge anche che essi “non 
odiano, come i Turchi, il nome e’! vestire de’ Cristiani, anzi si mostrano loro 
benigni, ed affabili” (II: 140). 

Dopo una breve sosta nel Golfo Persico che offre spunto al Gemelli per una 
divagazione sulle perle e sulla loro natura (II: 283-284), inizia la burrascosa 
navigazione verso Goa su un vascello guidato da un “tabaccaro piloto”, incompetente 
€ oppiomane (II, 299-317). 

Con il terzo volume dedicato all’ Indostan inizia il racconto del vero e proprio 
viaggio esotico, su percorsi non convenzionali ed ancora ignoti a viaggiatori europei. 
Qui, pur senza cedere a licenze barocche e rimanendo quindi fedele ai suoi principi 


malinconia da morire” (I:152). 


13. “Non solo per la salubrita dell’aria, ma per la comodita del traffico, é cosi popolata 
Ispahan che |’appellano mezzo Mondo; e non senza ragione si per la diversita di lingue, 
che vi si odono, come per l’immensa ricchezza de’ suoi Bazar, e botteghe d’ogni genere 
di mercatanzie". (II, 64) 


Coerenza metodologica nel Giro del mondo di Gemelli Careri 2351 


di imparzialita, Gemelli non nasconde il suo stupore nei confronti sia di visioni 
meravigliose, come il tempio del Canarin nell’isola di Salzette'*, che di fenomeni 
prodigiosi come |’impassibilita dei fachiri’® e l’agilita degli acrobati '°. 
L’India, forse anche pit della Cina, rapprsenta per il viaggiatore un’ esperienza 
ambivalente, ponendosi come termine di confronto culturale per la diversita degli 
usi e dei costumi e sucitando quesiti sulle nozioni stesse di civilta, religione e morale. 
Gemelli discute le superstizioni, le pratiche religiose, i rituali funebri vigenti presso 
i popoli indiani e, accanto al costume di ornare le pagode con “figure di demonj, 
di serpenti, di scimmie e, di varj mostri, che fanno orrore a miragli” (III:172), 
disapprova l’uso di sacrificare le spose ancora vive sul rogo dei mariti e la 
consuetudine di abbandonare i neonati cagionevoli nelle campagne del Bengala: 


La superstizione di tutti i gentili d’India, fa divenirgli micidiali de’ loro proprj 
figli; imperocché hanno in costume, quando il fanciullo non vuol poppare, portarlo 
in campagna; e quivi, sopra un panno (ligato in alto da’ quattro capi) lo lasciano 
dalla mattina alla sera, per far loro beccar gli occhi da’ corvi; e questa é la ragione 
per cui in Bengala si trovano tanti ciechi. (III: 172) 


Dopo aver intrapreso un pericoloso viaggio fino alla corte del Gran Mogol e 
dopo essere stato ammesso ad un’ udienza speciale del sovrano per intercessione 
di alcuni missionari, Gemelli ritorna a Goa e da qui si imbarca per la Cina facendo 
scalo alle isole Maldive, a Malacca, nel Siam e a Macao. 

Il quarto libro, dedicato alla Cina, rappresenta l’apice dell’esperienza esotica 
e si distingue stilisticamente dagli altri per un rallentamento del ritmo cronachistico. 
Pid di una volta, dopo aver insistito sull’inadeguatezza della scrittura ad esprimere 
fenomeni cosi straordinari come quelli veduti nel Catai, Gemelli divide ngorosamente 


14. “La pagoda, o tempio del Canarin, di cui intendo dar veridica relazione, é una delle 
pil grandi meraviglie dell’ Asia. ... Quel che mi reca maggiore stupore, si é ch’ella sia quasi 
incognita agli Europei: giacché per molte diligenze, ch’abbia usate, non ho trovato che alcun 
viandante ultramontano, o Italiano ne abbia scritto: e spezialmente mi pare strano, che un 
uomo virtuoso, come il nostro Pietro Della Valle, abbia lasciato di vedere, cosi questa pagoda, 
come il Palagio di Dario, colle anticaglie di CELMONAR, poche leghe discoste dal suo 
cammino; quando egli viaggiava per gusto, e spendeva cosi facilmente le migliaia di scudi, 
per soddisfare la curiosita”. (III:31) 


15. “Questi penitenti perd non si arrossiscono di andar nudi da per tutto, come sono usciti 
dal ventre delle loro madri. Le donne vanno a baciar loro, per divozione, quelle parti, che 
noné lecito nominare; ed eglino, prendendole elle con le dita, non sentono alcun movimento 
di sensualita; e senza riguardare girano gli occhi di una maniera spaventevole". (III:23) 


16. “La cosa pil maravigliosa a vedere si era un uomo, che si raggirava sopra una canna, 
sostenuta da un altro sulla cintola: quel, che destava maggiore stupore, era, che colui, che 
sosteneva la canna, andava camminando, senza reggerla con le mani, e l’altro, che v’era 
su, né anche delle mani per ajuto si serviva: e pure il Bambu, o canna era alta trenta palmi. 
Alla fine, fatti due salti in aria, cadde sopra una trave molto alta, a questo fine piantata: 
non so, se tutto cid far potesse senz’ajuto soprannaturale”. (III:27) 


252 STEFANIA BUCCINI 


“favola” e “storia”, difendendo la veridicita del suo racconto e delle fonti: 


... delle cose future viviamo incerti, e delle passate appena a noi stessi prestiamo 
fede; cosi delle cose lontane stimiamo presso che tutti bugiardi i racconti; e favola 
cio’, che al nostro modo d’intendere, e alla fallace scorta de’ nostri sensi poco 
si adatta. Adunque io priego il mio discreto lettore a non voler stare in forse di 
quello, che in questo volume andero’ ricontando, la dove io diro’, esserne stato 
testimonio di veduta; e a non voler dare orecchio alle ciance di coloro, i quali 
giudicano, che tutto il Mondo sia rinchiuso entro lo spazio, che gli occhi loro 
riguardano; e diffidano che altri abbia veduto quei paesi, dove essi si sgomentano 
di gire né anche coll’immaginazione. (IV:1) 


Sia la Cina che le Americhe, almeno fino alle soglie dell’ Illuminismo, rimangono 
in sostanza spazi esotici favolosi, due mondi diversi accomunati dal medesimo destino 
“di far nascere idee romanzesche in ogni tempo” (Burke II:41-42), la cui valenza 
mitica é proporzionale alla loro distanza dall’Europa. La modernita di Gemelli 
sta, comunque, nel respingere |’equivalenza di “lontano” e “favoloso” non tanto 
per la sua ingenuita, quanto per la sua matrice eurocentrica: 


Di qui nasce, secondo il mio giudizio, che molti stiman favoloso, cio’ che vien 
detto dell’ampio, e ricchissimo imperio della Cina; falsamente credendo, che fuori 
d’Europa niente vi abbia di magnifico, di gentile, e d’ingegnoso. (IV: 2) 


I cinesi, cosi come i persiani, sono decisamente pid congeniali al viaggiatore 
di qualunque altro popolo incontrato nel giro del mondo. Da apprezzare non sono 
soltanto la loro cultura, il loro sitema politico e giuridico, ma anche la loro 
disposizione alla filosofia e la loro vivacita d’ingegno: 


Se coloro, i qualiinventano meglio, e pit prontamente, hannol’ingegno pit elevato 
degli altri; denno i cinesi essere all’altre nazioni anteposti, perché sono stati i primi 
inventori dello scrivere, della carta, della stampa, della porcellana fina, e d’altre 
varie cose. Se mancano loro molte scienze cio’ é nato dal non avere avuto 
comunicazione con altri popoli; ma con tutto cio’ sono consumati nella moral 
filosofia, alla quale s’applicano molto; e per la sublimita dell’ingegno, s’intendono 
facilmente i libri, composti da’ missionari, di difficili e sottili quistioni matematiche, 
filosofiche, e teologiche. ([V:177) 


Infine, il popolo cinese si distingue per la sua indole docile e per la sua 
impareggiabile cortesia: 


Finisco questo capitolo con dire, che una delle maggiori virtt cardinali, che sono 
infinite tra i Cinesi, é la cortesia, e la convenevolezza in ogni azione, che debba 
farsi; e cio’ gid non riguardando la dignita, e ’] merito delle persone, che si 
onorano; ma piuttosto per soddisfare a una cotal vaghezza, che tutti hanno di 
mostrarsi la pil costumata, e gentil cosa del mondo. (IV:257) 


Anche se bisognera attendere il secondo Settecento prima che il ben congegnato 
ordimamento politico dei cinesi - come quello scomparso degli Incas - diventi un 


Coerenza metodologica nel Giro del mondo di Gemelli Careri 253 


modello attuale di monarchia illuminata, va ricordato che gia negli ultimi decenni 
del Seicento 1’Europa inizia a subire il fascino del Catai. Grazie alla diffusione 
di opere di carattere informativo come China monumentis illustrata (1667) di 
Athanasius Kircher e all’intensificarsi degli scambi commerciali, i quali favoriscono 
la diffusione di tutte quelle “chinoiseries” che avrebbero decorato 1 salotti dell’ alta 
societa settecentesca, la cultura cinese desta l’ammirazione e la curiosita degli 
intellettuali. Infatti, con le sete, le porcellane e i profumi si diffondono anche 1 
resoconti dei missionari e le traduzioni latine e francesi delle massime morali di 
Confucio che sarebbe diventato uno dei “santi patroni” dell’ illuminismo (Reichwein 
a7). 

Dopo essere stato ricevuto dall’imperatore nel suo favoloso e labirintico 
palazzo"’ e aver visitato anche la grande muraglia, straordinaria impresa che tuttavia 
lo sconcerta per la sua funzione difensiva'*, Gemelli lascia la Cina e s’imbarca 
per le isole Filippine, descritte nel quinto libro del Giro del mondo. Da qui il 29 
giugno del 1696 col galeone San Jose salpa per Acapulco dove giunge il 20 gennaio 
del 1697, dopo una difficile e lunghissima traversata sul Pacifico”. 

Il sesto volume, interamente dedicato alla Nuova Spagna, rappresenta certamente 
uno dei testi secenteschi pit significativi di “archeologia americana” , in quanto 
contiene informazioni desunte da codici precedenti la conquista spagnola e varie 
illustrazioni di guerrieri aztechi. Insieme alla relazione dell’esploratore Enrico Tonti 
sulla zona dei grandi laghi e al celebre diario del francescano Louis Hennepin che 
nel 1678 aveva risalito con Lasalle il corso del Mississippi, il volume sul Messico 
di Gemelli rimane una delle poche testimonianze dirette sulle Americhe apparse 


17. “Stava l’imperatore in quella vaga loggia, seduto alla tartaresca, sopra uno strato 0 soffa, 
alto tre piedi, e coperto d’un gran tappeto, ch’occupava tutto il pavimento con la sua 
grandezza. . . . La sua statura é ben proporzionata: |’aspetto grazioso; li occhi vivi, e alquanto 
pit grandi degli altri di sua nazione; il naso alquanto aquilino, e rotondo verso la punta: 
ha qualche segno, lasciatogli dalle vajuole; né percid gli scema punto la grazia del volto”. 


(IV: 84-85) 


18. “Questa opera fu una delle pit grandi, ed insieme delle pit forsennate, che fosser giammai 
fatte. La prudenza voleva, che i Cinesi chiudessero i passi di maggior rischio. Ma quel, 
che affatto misembro da ridere, fu a vedere il muro, tratto ancor fino alle cime d’un altissimo 
e straripevol monte; ove appena vi sarebbero appiccati 1 pichi, non che montar vi potesse 
la cavalleria tartara, per entrar nel paese. E, se pur essi si persuadevano, che coloro 
aggrappandosi per balze, e per dirupi, vi potrebber passare, sciocca doveva esser poi la lor 
credenza a giudicare, che quivi da un si basso muro potrebbe la temerita di coloro essere 
arrestata”. ([V:92-93) 


19. “La pit terrribile e lunga navigazione, che sia al mondo, puo dirsi quella dalle Filippine 
in America: si per gl’immensi mari, che s’hanno ad attraversare, per la meta quasi del globo 
terraqueo, sempre col vento alla prora; come per le incredibili tempeste, che s’incontrano, 
luna appresso I’altra; e per le infermita mortali, che sopravvengono in un viaggio di sette 
in otto mesi, che dee farsi, ora per maggiore, ora per minore altezza di Polo; e per climati, 
ora freddi, ed agghiacciati, ora temperati e caldi: cid che basterebe ad annientire un ferro, 
non che la complessione di un uomo, che alla fine in mare si nutrisce di cattivi cibi”. (V:150) 


254 STEFANIA BUCCINI 


in Italia nel secolo XVII. 

Nella Nuova Spagna Gemelli studia attentamente le piramidi, la cui affinita 
con quelle egiziane lo induce ad avallare la tesi platonica della trasmigrazione degli 
Egizi da Atlantide (VI: 120) e a credere che anche gli Ulmecchi, autori delle piramidi 
e “fecondi popolatori della Nuova Spagna”, siano “venuti da quell’ isola Atlantica, 
di cui favella Platone nel suo Timeo” (VI:120). Si tratta di un’ipotesi alquanto 
diffusa nel Settecento che avra tra i suoi proseliti anche eruditi illuminati come Gian 
Rinaldo Carli, il quale nelle sue celebri Lettere americane (1780), avvalendosi di 
prove geologiche e linguistiche, giungera alla convinzione che i peruviani sono giunti 
nel Nuovo Mondo da Atlantide. La curiosita di Gemelli non si limita, 
tuttavia, alle sole piramidi, ma si estende alla cronologia e ai geroglifici aztechi, 
ai costumi e anche al carattere dei suoi attuali abitatori che descrive puntualmente: 


Naturalmente sono timidissimi gli Indiani. I vizi, che comunemente loro 
attribuiscono gli Spagnuoli, sono primamente di vivere senza onore .... mangiar 
senza nausea, dormire sulla nuda terra, e morire senza timore. Sono grandissimi 
ladroni, truffatori e bugiardi. (VI:50) 


L’indolenza e l’assenza di autodisciplina sono dunque i tratti distintivi dell’indios 
messicano, e come si avra modo di constatare nel secolo successivo, i presupposti 
su cui studiosi di storia naturale, come Buffon e De Pauw, fonderanno la tesi 
dell’inferiorita delle Americhe, il cui processo di maturazione si sarebbe arrestato 
per una serie di motivi climatici e geologici. 

Gli indiani sono, dunque, costituzionalmente pigri e Gemelli ritorna su questo 
punto a proposito della tribt. degli Ottomiti: 


Vivono questi meschini (come tutti gli altri della Nuova Spagna) pit tosto da bruti, 
che da uomini, tra orride montagne. Alimentansi la maggior parte dell’anno d’erbe, 
perché non hanno maiz: difetto che nasce si dal poco terreno, che coltivano, come 
per essere inchinati nell’ozio. Mi vennero le lagrime su gli occhi, vedendogli in 
tale miseria, che non avevano come coprire le parti vergognose, cosi maschi, come 
femmine. (VI:116) 


Accanto alle popolazioni e alla cultura della Nuova Spagna, Gemelli riflette 
attentamente sulla geografia fisica e sulle risorse naturali del paese, soffermandosi 
sulle piante esotiche, come la vaniglia e il cacao, e sulle miniere d’argento ”. 

La vivacita di osservazione e la fiducia nel progresso costituiscono il Leit-motiv 


20. Gemelli ricorda con angoscia di essere restato per circa due ore in una voragine profonda 
per visitare una miniera d’argento: “Adunque, dopo esser istato circa due ore, ritornai su, 
con grandissimo timore, per l’infame cammino; e giunsi alla luce del giorno molto stanco. 
Parvemi in quel punto medesimo di rinascere al mondo; e in verita confesso che giammai 
a’ miei di’ non intrapresi azione pill temeraria, per non dir pazza; né per cinque anni di 
viaggio fra barbare nazioni aver conosciuto simil timore”. (VI:68-79) 


Coerenza metodologica nel Giro del mondo di Gemelli Careri 255 


del Giro del mondo che per una certa coerenza metodologica é gia un racconto di 
viaggio settecentesco (Guglielminetti 55). L’autore ha piena coscienza dello statuto 
autonomo e della dignita didattica della letteratura di viaggio che consente “di 
acquistare onorato luogo nella Repubblica Letteraria, pubblicando poscia, a comun 
beneficio, le cose vedute, ed osservate” (VI:287). Merito, tuttavia, di pochi eletti, 
in quanto animati da una “natural vaghezza di gir per lo mondo ... moltissimi al 
mondo viaggiano, pero a pochi riesce di farlo bene, e a pochissimi di saperne render 
conto, e d’istruire il pubblico” (VI:287). La finalita pedagogica dei racconti di 
Gemelli si risolve, infine, in una serie di comandamenti indispensabili al viaggiatore 
modello, come: scrivere le proprie osservazioni ogni sera in un “giornale” e averne 
due copie, qualora “andandone |’una a male, colla valige, l’altra possa serbarsi 
in mano sicura di qualche amico” (VI:292); “avere qualche mezzana notizia delle 
cose a medicina appartenenti, e spezialmente alla chirurgia” (VI:287); conoscere 
molte lingue (VI:289) e “contrarre amista con qualche letterato di vaglia, se ce n’ha 
nel paese, 0 co’ vecchi pit intelligenti” (VI:289); saper disegnare “per servirsene 
quando si truova alcuna bella statua, edificio, anticaglia” (VI:292). Inoltre, scopo 
del viaggiatore rispettabile é quello di non “correr le poste da per tutto” VI:288) 
come i corrieri, di non attaccarsi alle “bagattelle” 0 a particolari di scarso rilevo 
e di “essere universale, se non per compiacere a se medesimo, per profitto degli 
altri, e della posterita (VI:290). Tuttavia, il primo comandamento é rispettare la 
verita e saperla raccontare: 


E questo anche bisogna saperlo fare acconciamente: molte relazioni trovandosi, 
nelle quali non manca la verita, ma il modo di farla intendere, e di saperla bene 
esplicare. (VI:29) 


Il merito del Giro del mondo, ovvero la descrizione fedele dei paesi visitati, 
é sottolineato dal prefatore Giosef Antonio Guerrieri che distinguendo nettamente 
i viaggi reali da quelli immaginari, loda Gemelli per l’attendibilita della sua 
esperienza e biasima coloro che “viaggiano” sulle carte geografiche: 


Sa egli bene, che alcuni, non usciti dal proprio nido, solo per aver osservate poche 
carte geografiche, o letta qualche relazione, stimano diavere acquistato un perfetto 
conoscimento de’ paesi stranieri; per lo che di leggieri addiviene, che gli altri 
rapporti, che non conformansi allo studio, che ne han fatto, chiamansi da costoro 
“sogni d’infermi, e fole di romanzi”: come se il tratto d’immaginarie linee possa 
in pochi fogli esprimere al vivo, e gl’intrichi de’ viaggi, e la stravaganza de’ climi 
e le maraviglie della natura, dell’arte che tratto tratto nuovi arcani ci discuopre, 
0 pure come se unicamente da’ libri, che han veduti, le verie cognizioni raccolgansi, 
ed ogni altro avviso non sia, che mero ritrovamento di chi scrive. (I:2-3) 


La rigorosa distinzione tra il resoconto di viaggio e il viaggio immaginario attesta 
il costituirsi di un genere che prende le dovute distanze dal racconto fantastico. Si 
tratta di una questione discussa dagli eruditi del primo Settecento, e in particolare 
da Muratori che esortera i viaggiatori ad una maggiore disciplina, notando come 


256 STEFANIA BUCCINI 


nei loro racconti possa “penetrare il genio romanzesco, che col finto maraviglioso 
adesca e diletta chi si pasce della superficie delle cose, e all’ombra del vero” 
(Muratori iii). 

Pur non partecipando in pieno, come la letteratura di viaggio inglese e francese, 
a quel turbamento esistenziale sorto tra i due secoli che Paul Hazard ha battezzato 
la “crise de la conscience européenne” (Hazard 46-47 ), il Giro del mondo offre 
il suo contributo alla storia culturale del tardo Seicento come documento di un 
processo di transizione dalla Weltanschauung barocca a quella razionalistica ed 
erudita del primo Settecento. Purtroppo, dopo il suo successo settecentesco, é restato 
e resta tuttora immerso in un oblio da cui ci si augura possa finalmente uscire con 
una prossima edizione. 


University of Wisconsin at Madison 
OPERE CITATE 


Burke, W. ed E., Storia degli stabilimenti europei in America, Venezia, Novelli, 1763. 

Carletti, F., Ragionamenti del mio viaggio intorno al mondo, Torino, Einaudi, 1989. 

Carli, G., Delle lettere americane, Firenze, Cosmopoli, 1980. 

Gemelli Careri, F.G., Giro del mondo, Venezia, Giovanni Malachini, 1719. 

Guglielminetti, M., “Introduzione” a Viaggiatori del Seicento, Torino, Utet, 1969. 

Hazard P., La crisi della coscienza europea (1680-1715), Milano, Il Saggiatore, 1983. 

Hennepin, L., Descrizione della Luigiana. Paese nuovamente scoperto nell’America settentrio- 
nale, Bologna, Giacomo Monti, 1686. 

Kircher, A., China, monumentis, qua sacris, qua profanis, nec non variis naturae et artis 
spectaculis, aliarumque rerum memorabilium argumeniis illustrata, Amsterdam, Jacobum 
a Meurs, 1667. 

Muratori, L. A., Il cristianesimo felice nelle Missioni de’ Padri della Compagnia di Gest 
nel Paraguai, Venezia, Pasquali, 1743. 

Parini, G., Opere, a cura di E. Bonora, Milano, Editoriale Vita, 1967. 

Reichwein, A., China and Europe. Intellectual and Artistic Contact in the Eighteenth Century. 
New York, Alfred A. Knopf, 1925. 

Tonti, H., Derniéres découvertes dans l|’Amérique septentrionale de M. de La Sale, Paris, 
Jean Guignard, 1656. 


_ ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 





Francesco Algarotti viaggiatore e letterato 


In uno studio pubblicato vari anni or sono ho avuto |’occasione di soffermarmi su 


: alcuni aspetti dei rapporti che intercorrono fra il “Giornale del viaggio da Londra 
_ a Petersbourg”, un manoscritto di Francesco Algarotti che si trova alla British 
Library di Londra, e i successivi Viaggi di Russia che apparvero per la prima volta 
_ a stampa molti anni pit tardi, nel 1760, con il titolo Saggio di lettere sopra la Russia 
ela falsa indicazione di Parigi, Briasson (Franceschetti, “L’ Algarotti”).' Questa 


prima edizione comprende le otto lettere indirizzate a Lord John Hervey di Ickworth 
e una al marchese Scipione Maffei; nel 1763 apparve una seconda edizione rivista 


_ eampliata dall’aggiunta delle ultime tre lettere al Maffei, con lo stesso titolo e con 


le stesse false indicazioni di citta e di stampatore.” In questa sede vorrei riprendere 
l’esame di quei rapporti, sia per aggiungere particolari nuovi che sono emersi in 
ricerche successive, sia per precisare alcuni punti che allora non sono stato in grado 


| di completare. 


Rileggiamo innanzi tutto una delle pagine che Giammaria Mazzuchelli ha 
dedicato all’ Algarotti nei suoi Scrittori d’Italia, una pagina riguardante direttamente 
il viaggio in Russia che é all’origine dei lavori di cui ci stiamo occupando: 


Da Parigi ripasso a Londra, ove poche settimane dopo il suo arrivo invitato venne 
dal Lord Baltimore, che al presente é uno de’ Signori dell’ Ammiralita, di far seco 
per mare in un suo picciolo Vascello il viaggio di Petersbourg. Egli ne accetto 
con piacere l’invito, e tre giorni di poi fece vela vago di vedere cogli occhi propri 
quel rinomato paese. Dopo le tempeste pil’ lunghe e pit pericolose giunse a 
Petersbourg in tempo che faceva i maggiori sforzi, ed era nella maggior sua 
comparsa la magnificenza di quella Corte, cioé a dire mentre si celebravano le 
nozze della Principessa di Meklembourg col Principe di Brunsvik. Ebbe agioallora 
di conoscere il celebre Conte di Osterman, ed altri illustri Soggetti di que’ Paesi. 
L’Accademia fu da lui particolarmente visitata, ed il Sig. dell’Isle tanto celebre 


1. Interessanti considerazioni sui rapporti fra i due testi si leggono ora in Arato 92-99; 


| soprattutto sui Viaggi si veda il puntuale saggio di Spaggiari (“Un illuminista”, rielaborato 


in L’Armonico Tremore 89-103 e, pitt ampiamente, come “Introduzione” alla sua edizione 


| dei Viaggi, vii-xxx). In generale sui problemi della letteratura di viaggio italiana e sui suoi 
' aspetti complessivi si vedano le importanti osservazioni di Guagnini. 


2. La falsita di queste indicazioni, gid segnalata dal Parenti (162), € ora ampiamente 


| documentata dallo Spaggiari (cfr. la sua edizione dei Viaggi 1-lii); in realta i volumetti furono 


stampati a Venezia da Giambattista Novelli. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


258 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 


per le scoperte Geografiche che si sono fatte e si vanno tuttavia facendo in quel 
vasto Imperio. Passate alcune settimane in Petersbourg, riprese col Lord Baltimore 
la via di Mare e venne a Danzica, donde si trasferi a Dresda, e veduta quella Corte, 
passo a Berlino, e di la ebbe l’onore di fare per lo spazio di otto giorni la Corte 
al Principe Reale ora Re di Prussia nella sua residenza di Reinsberg, il quale si 
come quegli a cui non era ignoto il suo nome gli fece onorevole accoglienza e 
lo volle seco in frequenti colloqui, i quali sulle belle Lettere, sulla Filosofia, sul 
carattere, e sulla coltura delle varie Nazioni quotidianamente versavano. 

Di la passo in Amburgo dove nuovamente imbarcatosi ritornd in Londra. Ivi 
riprese 1 suoi studi e si pose di nuovo a correggere e a pulire 1 suoi Dialoghi, e 
incominciO un’altra Opera di genere Istorico, cui apprendiamo esser ora a buon 
termine condotta. I] Lord Hervey era il Signore, con cui viveva pil famigliarmente, 
trovando in questo tutte quelle pili chiare doti che si possono desiderare inun Uomo 
di Stato, ed in un Letterato. (482) 


Inesatto é certo il particolare che la partenza avrebbe avuto luogo “tre giorni” dopo 
’invito di Lord Baltimore ad accompagnarlo in quel viaggio, se dobbiamo prestar 
fede alla data di una lettera della Marchesa di Chatelet, la quale il 17 marzo 1739 
si complimentava con lui in previsione del “beau voyage” che egli stava per 
intraprendere;* 1’ Algarotti nel titolo del “Giornale” scrive di aver lasciato Londra 
il 20 maggio (e lo ripete nella prima pagina), e quindi un tempo assai pid lungo 
trascorse fra la data dell’invito e quella della partenza stessa. Quasi tutti gli altri 
particolari invece riflettono puntualmente notizie presenti nel manoscritto, spesso 
scomparse nella stesura definitiva dell’opera a stampa: indizio evidente che tali 
informazioni al Mazzuchelli non potevano pervenire che dallo stesso Algarotti, se 
si tien conto anche del fatto che quel volume degli Scrittori d'Italia fu pubblicato 
nel 1753, con notizie riguardanti il Nostro aggiornate almeno fino al 1749, vale 
a dire, a vari anni prima che i Viaggi di Russia vedessero la luce. 

Attira l’attenzione del lettore la notizia riguardante “l’Opera di genere storico... 
a buon termine condotta”, che non sembra, nei termini di cui se ne parla, 
corrispondere a nessuna delle opere pubblicate dall’Algarotti. Sulla stessa il 
Mazzuchelli ritorna pit avanti nelle pagine dedicate alle opere composte dallo 
scrittore veneziano: 


nel suo soggiorno in Berlino, in Torino, e in Dresda, o piuttosto ne’ suoi frequenti 
viaggi, egli ha condotto a fine varie Operette si in prosa, che in versi, cercando 
in tutte una certa novita, ed una scelta di non comuni notizie, che inviti il Lettore 
e lo trattenga con piacere [...]. Ma la principale Opera sua, intorno a cui tuttavia 
lavora, é Storica, pel compimento della quale, non poco gli é giovato l’avere avuta 
la sorte di vedere da vicino i grandi avvenimenti, che hanno agitata ultimamente 
l’Europa. (486) 


3. Lettera da Cirey (Algarotti, Opere 16.51). 


Francesco Algarotti viaggiatore e letterato 259 


Nessuna fra le opere note dell’ Algarotti, e niente fra i manoscritti incompiuti che 
di lui ci sono rimasti (almeno fra quelli di cui io sono riuscito a venire a conoscenza 
e a consultare), sembra giustificare e spiegare quest’ultima affermazione del 
Mazzuchelli; non ci rimane niente del Nostro che possa essere classificato come 
“Opera storica” per la quale la sua esperienza diretta e personale degli avvenimenti 
europei nel corso della sua vita gli avrebbe “non poco [...] giovato”. Potremmo 
anzi forse aggiungere che tutto quello che ci rimane in campo di storiografia, e 
anche negli altri campi, messo su carta dall’ Algarotti non sembra affatto confermare 
una simile prospettiva: autore brillante, e assai felice, di saggi, di lettere, di opere 
spesso relativamente brevi e non troppo impegnative (si accetti naturalmente questa 
limitazione nel significato giusto di prospettiva ideologica consapevolmente cercata 
e voluta, non in quello negativo di sostanziale incapacita e immaturita 0, ancor 
peggio, di costituzionale inabilita), non si vede bene a quale progetto e a quale opera 
le frasi del Mazzuchelli dovrebbero alludere. L’allusione ai “grandi avvenimenti, 
che hanno agitata ultimamente l’Europa”, puo riferirsi ai fatti della Guerra di 
Successione Austriaca che sconvolse |’Europa fra il ’40 e il °48 e nella quale 
Federico II di Prussia e Augusto III di Polonia, con cui Il’ Algarotti mantenne regolari 
contatti in quegli anni, ebbero parte assai di rilievo; ma fra i suoi scritti non c’é 
niente che lasci intravvedere |’intenzione di stendere una storia di tale guerra. 
Tuttavia bisogna riconoscere che la cultura settecentesca dei tempi in cul operava 
il Nostro non ignorava e non trascurava lavori di questo tipo; 1’ Algarotti si trova 
in un certo senso circondato da scrittori (come un Muratori, un Maffei, un Voltaire, 
del quale la prima parte dell’ Histoire de l’empire de Russie sous Pierre le Grand 
vede la luce nel 1760, lo stesso anno in cui appare il Saggio di lettere sopra la 
Russia) che ad opere storiche assai impegnate dedicavano molto del loro tempo 
e della loro attivita, e verisimilmente anche lui, prima o poi nel corso della sua 
vita, ha potuto pensare a qualcosa di questo tipo. Pud quindi senza dubbio aver 
fatto balenare al Mazzuchelli |’idea (per iscritto? in un colloquio a voce?) che 
progettava o aveva in mente un’opera del genere; 0 pud anche essere che il 
Mazzuchelli stesso abbia deciso di attribuirgli un lavoro di queste proporzioni, per 
non far in qualche modo sfigurare un amico e uno scrittore in cui mostrava di 
credere. II risultato comunque non cambia: |’ Algarotti non ci ha lasciato nulla di 
questo tipo; se lo ha lasciato, altre ricerche pit accurate di quante non ne siano 
state fatte finora saranno necessarie per identificarlo; se non lo ha lasciato, o se 
é andato distrutto, rimarra un problema che per i posteri é assai difficile ricostruire. 
Ma per ritornare ai Viaggi di Russia, é il caso di riesaminarne alcuni aspetti 
che possono, in qualche modo, dirci qualcosa di quelle che forse erano le ambizioni 
del suo autore (o anche solo del Mazzuchelli). Si tratta di un’ opera in cui I’ Algarotti 
si presenta come diffusore presso il pubblico italiano di notizie e di informazioni 
che gia circolavano in altre lingue e in altri paesi d’ Europa; i confini del mondo 
si allargavano non poco, e la curiosita di sapere di pit sugli altri popoli é una 
Caratteristica fondamentale dei viaggiatori del Settecento, che spesso fanno i loro 
Viaggi non solo per accrescere le loro esperienze personali, ma anche per 
comunicarle ai connazionali che quei viaggi non potevano, o non volevano, 


260 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 


affrontare. In campo italiano si pensi ad esempio a Francesco Locatelli, le cui Lettres 
moscovites appaiono a Parigi nel 1736,* tre anni prima della data del viaggio 
dell’ Algarotti, e che contengono tante informazioni simili a quelle che leggiamo 
nel “Giornale” e/o nei Viaggi del Nostro, sull’imperatrice Anna Ivanovna, 
sull’ Accademia delle Scienze fondata da Pietro il Grande, sul predominio delle 
personalita straniere che controllano la politica dello stato, sulle finanze assai scarse 
dell’impero, sul numero insufficiente dei soldati dell’esercito, sulla loro impreparazio- 
ne e sulla loro mancanza di disciplina.” Non escluderei quindi che il progetto 
accarezzato dall’ Algarotti nel corso dei vent’anni che intercorsero fra la data del 
viaggio e la pubblicazione dell’opera a stampa fosse proprio quello di fornire 
qualcosa di assai pit ampio ed ambizioso, cui in ultima analisi egli fini poi per 
rinunciare. 

Tracce di un simile progetto sono riconoscibili effettivamente in alcune delle 
lettere sulla Russia. Nell’articolo che ho ricordato all’inizio avevo avuto modo di 
indicare per esempio che tutte le notizie riguardanti il commercio inglese con la 
Persia, attraverso la Russia e il Mar Caspio, risalivano in realta non ad informazioni 
orali avute dall’Algarotti nel corso del suo viaggio, ma a quattro grossi tomi 
pubblicati a Londra nel 1753 da Jonas Hanway, che pass davvero qualche tempo 
a Berlino nell’agosto del 1750, ma verisimilmente senza mai incontrare di persona 
il Veneziano e, soprattutto, senza dargli a voce i particolari che I’ Algarotti desunse 
dalla sua opera e non da colloqui avuti con lui, come egli cerca di far credere verso 
la fine della nona lettera (163).° Una situazione analoga avviene per quanto riguarda 
il resoconto sulla guerra fra la Russia e la Turchia iniziata nel 1736 e conclusa nel 
1739 con la pace di Belgrado, la cui descrizione appare nella settima lettera e nella 
prima parte dell’ ottava. 

L’autore fa risalire le informazioni e le notizie che egli comunica a conversazioni 
cui egli sarebbe stato partecipe a Danzica nel salotto della “Palatina di Mazovia” 
(128); ma la mancanza assoluta di qualsiasi particolare del genere nel testo del 
“Giornale” non pud non insospettire il lettore circa la vera origine di quelle pagine, 
dove i dati e 1 particolari sono troppi per poter essere basati solo sulla memoria 
di chi li ha ascoltati. Naturalmente i testi pubblicati nel corso del Settecento 
riguardanti specificamente quella guerra sono molti, e non é possibile dire con 
sicurezza quali siano stati noti all’ Algarotti e di quali si sia servito per stendere 
le sue pagine. Fra quelli usciti prima del 1760, un lavoro abbastanza interessante, 


4. Nello stesso anno siha un’altra edizione a K6nisberg e, in traduzione inglese, a Londra. 


5. Per altre opere sulla Russia dei tempi dell’Algarotti, oltre a quelle segnalate in 
Franceschetti, “L’Algarotti,“ 323-24, si veda 1|’“Introduzione” dello Spaggiari alla sua 
edizione dei Viaggi (in particolare xx-xxi). 


6. Per il testo dei Viaggi i rimandi e le citazioni si rifanno all’edizione dello Spaggiari. 
Ha mostrato successivamente il Goggi come molte informazioni, insieme a diverse altre, 
che |’Algarotti aveva ripreso dall’opera dello Hanway sono poi passate dai suoi Viaggi 
all’Histoire des deux Indes di G. T. Raynal. 








Francesco Algarotti viaggiatore e letterato 261 


di un’ottantina di pagine, ¢ ad esempio la Recherche des causes de la présente guerre 
entre Sa Majesté l’imperatrice de la Grande-Russie et la Porte ottomane, pubblicato 
anonimo all’ Aja presso Jean van Duren nel 1737, che presenta varie idee analoghe 
a quelle prospettate dall’ Algarotti sulle cause del conflitto, risalendo fino ai tempi 
di Pietro il Grande; ma fra i due testi non é possibile stabilire dei rapporti diretti. 

Rapporti che invece é assai facile rintracciare fra le pagine dei Viaggi e due 
Opere messe a stampa vari anni dopo non solo la princeps del ’60, ma anche la 
morte del Nostro nel ’64. Si osservi ad esempio come inizia il racconto delle ostilita 
nella settima lettera: 


Nel trentacinque si raduno in Ucraina un esercito, e fu ordinato al generale 
Leonteff, che con ventimila uomini di regolata milizia e otto mila Cosacchi penetrar 
dovesse nella Crimea, e mettervi ogni cosa a fiamma. Ma partitosi troppo tardi, 
non giunse che a Cammervisaton nel Boristene, dopo battute alcune orde o 
compagnie di Tartari, che scontro nel deserto. (104) 


Si confronti questo brano con quanto si legge nelle prime pagine dell’ Histoire de 
la guerre des Russes et des impériaux contre les Turcs di Louis de Kéralio, 
pubblicata per la prima volta nel 1780: in seguito alla morte di un generale e alla 
malattia di un altro 


le commandement passa au général Léontiev. Celui-ci eut ordre d’entrer dans les 
déserts des Tartares Nogais, de détruire cette nation, de pénétrer jusques en Crimée, 
& de s’emparer de ce pays, tandis que le Kan marchoit vers la Perse. Léontiev 
entra dans ces déserts au commencement d’Octobre 1735, 4 la téte de vingt mille 
hommes, la plupart dragons, & de huit mille Cosaques. Ces troupes, ayent rencontré 
des hordes tartares, s’emparerent de leurs bestiaux, & tuerent environ quatre mille 
hommes. (1.11) 


Il freddo costringe quindi ad arrestare l’avanzata a “Kamménoisaton” (1.12). La 
coincidenza del nome del comandante russo, dei ventimila soldati e degli ottomila 
Cosacchi a sua disposizione, dei suoi primi successi contro i Tartari e della citta 
dove l’esercito fu costretto a fermarsi per via della stagione troppo fredda non 
possono essere solo casuali: i due brani hanno chiaramente una parentela fra loro, 
O una fonte comune. E quella fonte, non nominata dall’ Algarotti, @ invece indicata 
esplicitamente in una nota delle pagine introduttive del primo volume dell’ opera 
del Kéralio: “les principaux détails [...] des mouvemens de |’armée russe ont été 
tirés des mémoires du général Manstein” (1.v). 

Cristoph Hermann von Manstein, come sappiamo dalle notizie biografiche che 
precedono il testo pubblicato delle sue memorie, era nato 1’1 settembre 1711 a 
Pietroburgo, dove suo padre era al servizio di Pietro il Grande. Andato da giovane 
a Berlino a servire fra i cadetti del Re di Prussia, nel 1736 era tornato in Russia 
a militare per l’imperatrice Anna Ivanovna; sotto il comando del generale Miinnich, 
come capitano dei granatieri del reggimento di Pietroburgo, aveva partecipato alla 
guerra russo-turca che descrive nelle sue memorie. Alla morte di Anna nel ’40 fu 
al servizio della nipote, la Principessa di Mecklemburg (quella stessa in occasione 


262 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 


del cui matrimonio nel ’391’ Algarotti aveva fatto il suo viaggio in Russia), reggente 
per il piccolo Ivan VI, e ottenne il grado di colonnello. Dopo aver compiuto vari 
atti eroici nella guerra contro la Svezia iniziata nel ’41, gli fu fatale l’avvento 
dell’imperatrice Elisabetta Petrovna che elimind dal suo governo la maggior parte 
degli uomini politici stranieri, tedeschi in particolare, preferendo affidarsi a 
personalita russe. Con la caduta di Miinnich anche Manstein fini col perdere tutto 
quello che era riuscito ad assicurarsi; temendo non ingiustamente per la sua vita 
stessa, nel °44 si rifugid in Germania, dove l’anno successivo passo al servizio di 
Federico II, combattendo come volontario nella campagna di quell’anno per la 
conquista della Slesia. Fu fatto generale nel ’54 e cadde in una battaglia di minore 
importanza nel ’57. Aveva scritto le sue memorie in data incerta fra il ’48 e il 54; 
esse rimasero manoscritte per vari anni, fino alle stampe in traduzione inglese a 
Londra del 1770 (presso Becket and Houdt e presso Cass), in traduzione tedesca 
a Lipsia nel 1771 (presso Weidermanns, Erben und Reich) e€ nell’ originale francese 
a Parigi nel 1771 (presso Humblot) e a Lione nel 1772 (curata da M. Huber, che 
stese anche il profilo biografico dell’autore). 

L’Algarotti non vide naturalmente nessuna di queste edizioni, ma non gli dovette 
essere ignoto il manoscritto che era nelle mani di Federico II, il quale proprio nel 
1759 pensava a farlo pubblicare, forse per screditare in qualche modo la figura 
dell’imperatrice Elisabetta, con cui stava allora combattendo nella Guerra dei Sette 
Annie nei cui confronti il Manstein non si mostrava certo molto favorevole. Quello 
stesso manoscritto (che ora si trova alla Biblioteca Nazionale di Parigi, ms. francese 
12150, Supplément francais 1885.1) non era ignoto neanche a Voltaire, che ne parla 
in una lettera del 3 marzo 1759 a Jean Henry Samuel Formey, Presidente 
dell’ Accademia delle Scienze di Berlino, precisando che il Manstein “me monstra 
ses mémoires de Russie, que je corrigeai a Potsdam” (155). E’ in quest’opera che 
leggiamo la pagina che é servita di fonte comune indipendentemente sia all’ Algarotti 
che al Kéralio: anche qui nel 1735, in seguito alla morte di un generale e alla 
malattia di un altro, 


le lieutenant-général Leontew’ fut mis a la téte des troupes. Pendent ces allées 
et venues de Pétersbourg on avait perdu prés de six semaines de temps, et ce 
général ne put se mettre en marche qu’au commencement d’ octobre. Ses instructions 
portaient en substance, que la Cour, voulant tirer vengeance des invasions des 
Tartares, avait choisi, pour tomber sur la Crimée le temps, ot le chan en était 
absent avec ses meilleurs troupes pour faire une invasion dans le Dagestan, province 
appartenant a la Perse; qu’elle enjoignait 4 son général d’y marcher avec toute 
la diligence possible, de mettre tout ce pays a feu et 4 sang, de délivrer les sujets 
russes, et de détruire entiérement les Tartares nagais, qui habitent les déserts ou 


7. A conferma indiretta che un rapporto esiste veramente fra le opere di Manstein, di 
Algarotti e di Kéralio potremmo osservare che il nome di questo generale, che compare 
con varia grafia presso questi tre scrittori, non si legge invece, riguardo ai fatti raccontati, 
in altri testi che scrivono della guerra russo-turca, come quello del Laugier. 


| 
| 
. 
| 


Francesco Algarotti viaggiatore e letterato 263 


les steppes entre |’ Ukraine et la Crimée, et qui demeurent dans des huttes qu’ils 
transportent d’un endroit a l’autre. 

M. de Leontew avait pour cette expédition 20.000 hommes de troupes réglés, 
dont la plupart étaient des dragons, et 8000 cosaques. I] entra avec cette armée 
dans les steppes, au commencement d’octobre. Le début de cette entreprise fut 
assez heureux; les partis de troupes légéres trouvérent plusieurs hordes de ces 
Tartares nagais, dont ils massacrérent plus de 4000, n’en épargnant que fort peu. 
On leur enleva una grande quantité de bestiaux, surtout plusieurs milliers de 
moutons. 

Ces avantages coutérent bien cher aux Russes. On avait entrepris cette expédition 
dans une saison trop avancée. (1.142-43) 


Anche per Manstein dunque la spedizione dovette interrompersi a “Camenoi-Saton” 
(1.144). 
Al di 1a del gran numero di informazioni che si corrispondono perfettamente, 
| risulta evidente |’ abilita del Veneziano di snellire la narrazione, lasciando stare tutta 
| una serie di particolari non indispensabili per la chiarezza di quanto egli viene 
_ esponendo, soprattutto quando quel genere di dati avrebbero significato poco o nulla 
| per il pubblico italiano. Lo stesso si pud ripetere a proposito di molte altre pagine 
| in cui la presenza delle memorie del Manstein si fa sentire in maniera altrettanto 
 evidente. Cosi ad esempio |’ Algarotti inizia il suo racconto: 


La ragion prima, 0 vogliam dire il pretesto della guerra, fu di gastigare i Tartari, 
che da molto tempo non cessavano d’infestare le frontiere meridionali dell’ Imperio. 
(101) 


| E poco pit avanti: 


Dopo molte doglianze e scritture inutili [con la corte di Costantinopoli] ebbe la 
Russia ricorso alla ragione ultima posta da Dio in mano de’ Principi. E per gastigare 
quei ladroni colse il tempo ch’erano in sul finire i torbidi della Pollonia, a cui 
essa avea gia dato il re, e che i Turchi erano tuttavia in Asia impediti da Koulicano. 
(103-4) 


| Ed ecco quanto si legge nelle memorie del Manstein: 


Aprés que les troubles de Pologne furent appaisés, la Russie se crut obligée, 
d’entraprendre une nouvelle guerre contre la Porte. Les incursions que les Tartares 
avaient faites en differentes fois dans les provinces russes, servirent de prétexte 
a cette rupture; car la Cour de Pétersbourg, ayant fait des plaintes 4 celle de 
Constantinople, n’eut pas de réponse satisfaisante [...] mais tout étant pacifié dans 
le reste de l1’Europe, elle []’imperatrice Anna Ivanovna] crut le temps favorable 
de se venger des Ottomans, d’autant plus qu’ils étaient engagés alors dans une 
guerre désavantageuse pour eux avec la Perse. (1.139-41) 


Analoghe sono infine le conclusioni che i due scrittori ricavano a proposito della 
‘fine della guerra con la pace di Belgrado per quanto riguarda la Russia: per il 


264 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 


Manstein quest’ultima “commenga une guerre, qui lui cotta des sommes immenses, | 


et une infinité de monde, sans qu’elle en tirat aucun vantage réel” (139); per 


1’ Algarotti tale guerra, 


se fu di gloria ai Russi, ne debilitd l’imperio smungendolo di denaro, d’uomini, 
di marinaj, disertandone le pit belle Provincie, lasciandolo esposto alle medesime 
ingiurie di prima, e rendendolo meno atto a salire a quel segno di grandezza che 
era il fine ultimo della guerra. (134-35) 


Gli esempi potrebbero continuare, ma credo che quanto ho indicato sia 
sufficiente a confermare come 1’ Algarotti, pid che rifarsi a quanto lui aveva visto 
e sentito realmente nel corso del suo viaggio, abbia preferito nella stampa ricorrere 
a informazioni di altro genere, che ai suoi lettori italiani potevano risultare senza 
dubbio nuove e interessanti. Forse proprio nel contenuto della settima, dell’ ottava 
e della nona lettera é da riconoscersi quanto ci rimane del pit ampio progetto 
vagheggiato dall’ Algarotti di una storia che comprendesse i “grandi avvenimenti” 
dell’Europa dei suoi tempi. Al momento di pensare alla stampa, potremmo dire 
che il letterato ha avuto la meglio sul viaggiatore e non ha esitato a sacrificare il 
ruolo e l’esperienza del secondo a vantaggio degli interessi e delle preoccupazioni 
del primo. Perché |’ Algarotti é stato senza dubbio uno dei viaggiatori italiani che 
ha visto e vissuto tante delle vicende dell’Europa nel corso del suo secolo; ed é 
stato anche uno dei viaggiatori pit vivaci e attivi del suo tempo. II] manoscritto della 
British Library - per quanto poco in ultima analisi egli ne abbia poi trasferito 
nell’opera a stampa - conferma nel suo stesso aspetto che l’autore intendeva 
utilizzarlo per ricavarne un lavoro da pubblicare prima o poi in qualche modo. 

Ma se il testo dei Viaggi documenta dunque I’abilita dell’Algarotti di 
semplificare, di abbreviare, di sintetizzare opere assai pit ampie e diffuse, non per 
questo dobbiamo pensare che il suo lavoro di revisore si sia sempre svolto in tale 
direzione. Non mancano pagine nel “Giornale” che, messe a confronto con quelle 
corrispondenti dei Viaggi, dimostrano il contrario: a volte il Nostro tende ad 
ampliare, ad allargare, a rielaborare qualcosa che aveva, originariamente, aspetto 
assai piti breve; e sempre lavorando con lo stesso atteggiamento, vale a dire quello 
del letterato piuttosto che quello del viaggiatore. Delle pagine che apparivano in 
maniera schematica nel “Giornale” diventano invece molto pit lunghe e complesse 
nei Viaggi; delle pagine che dimostrano il suo impegno in direzione fondamental- 
mente letteraria, dove l’esperienza vissuta autobiograficamente conta assai poco, 
e dove conta invece assai di pit il compito del letterato che lascia perdere le sue 
impressioni e le sue reazioni di testimone diretto per sviluppare ed estendere il testo 
con un altro orientamento. Osserva puntualmente a questo proposito lo Spaggiari 
che “l’approdo finale della riscrittura sacrificava, in sostanza, gran parte dell’ origina- 
ria impostazione diaristica, con risvolti autobiografici e di cronaca, in favore di 
una prosa di tipo nettamente saggistico” (xii). 

Tuttavia é il caso di osservare da un lato che tali “risvolti autobiografici” non 
sono del tutto assenti nei Viaggi; essi compaiono anzi con una certa frequenza, ma 
sono spesso inventati ex novo e non corrispondono a quelli che si leggevano nel 








Francesco Algarotti viaggiatore e letterato 265 


“Giornale”. Su questa linea 1’ Algarotti simula molto bene la sua pretesa epistolare, 
immaginando di apostrofare Lord Hervey e Scipione Maffei assai di frequente nelle 
pagine delle lettere. Dall’ altro lato il resoconto del viaggio non aveva fin dall’inizio 
un aspetto autobiografico e cronachistico, e presentava delle sezioni nelle quali 
l’aspetto saggistico era predominante; si pensi ad esempio alla descrizione 
dell’ Accademia di Pietroburgo, che ho avuto l’occasione di pubblicare altrove 
(Franceschetti, “Francesco Algarotti”). Non troviamo nel “Giornale” lo spazio che 
il Locatelli riserva invece nelle Lettres moscovites ai propri casi, al furto di cui 
fu vittima, al proprio imprigionamento, ai suoi disagi personali di viaggiatore per 
la mancanza di cibo, di medico, di barbiere e via dicendo: e il resoconto del 
matrimonio della Principessa di Mecklembourg non si sofferma su tutti i particolari 
di cronaca mondana che leggiamo invece nella descrizione che ne ha lasciato Jane 
Rondeau. 

Gli esempi di questo modo di procedere potrebbero essere molti; ma per 
rimanere nell’ambito della prima lettera, si veda questo brano del manoscritto: 


Il giorno 4 [giugno] finalmente ebbimo calma. M." King fece con molta destrezza 
la dissezione d’un occhio d’un montone che si ammazzo a bordo. La coroide di 
questo animale era verde. Egli mi disse che tale era il colore di questa membrana 
in tutti gli animali che mangiano erba. Questo farebbe credere quanto possa I’abito 
nel cangiare perfino il fisico e l’organicco [sic] del corpo. Una membrana si 
accostuma a non riflettere che i raggi verdi, e comincia mutando forse la struttura 
sua a non poterne riflettere altri. (9) 


Questo invece é quanto si legge nei Viaggi: 


Potrei dirle ancora che un giorno di calma fece il Signor King con gran destrezza 
la notomia dell’occhio di un castrone. I] qual castrone fu poi cotto con egual 
dottrina dal nostro Martiald.* Ce ne mostré la coroide, ch’era verde; e verde 
parimente aggiunse essere il colore di cotesta tunica in tutti gli animali che pascono. 
Sarebbe forse, Mylord, che avesse la Natura formato in simili animali quella tunica 
atta solamente a riflettere i raggi verdi, perché l’erba facesse una maggiore 
impressione sugli occhi loro, perché ci fosse come una maniera di attrazione tra 
essi e la cosa con che si nutrono e crescono? O pur sarebbe che per lo continuo 
riflettere che fa quella tunica i raggi verdi, atta soltanto divenga a riflettere quei 
raggi e non altri? Sappiamo le forze che ha l’abitudine anche sull’organico e sul 
fisico. Il suo antecessore Demostene non divenne egli a forza di esercizio abile 
a pronunziar nettamente la P,’ per cui era inabile da natura? E chi si mettesse 


8. Per l’identificazione di questo personaggio con Martial d’Auvergne si veda la nota 165 
dello Spaggiari, che si rifa a quella del Ruozzi nell’edizione dei Pensieri diversi, 46 n. 15. 
Non chiaro risulta comunque il motivo per cui il cuoco di bordo viene chiamato con il nome 
dello scrittore e magistrato francese del Quattrocento. 


9. Come annota lo Spaggiari, si tratta della lettera dell’alfabeto greco che equivale alla r 
di quello latino. 


266 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 


a non ripetere che una sola parola, diverrebbe forse muto per tutt’altre. (11-12) 


A parte l’elaborazione assai pit mossa e variata del discorso, arricchito da una serie 
di domande retoriche rivolte a Lord Hervey, a parte la pid estesa e nutrita gamma 
di possibilita elencate e suggerite per spiegare il fenomeno (vien subito da pensare 
ad un preciso commento del Ruozzi a proposito di un’altra opera del Nostro: “I 
Pensieri diversi nascono secondo un intento pedagogico e informativo e si 
caratterizzano pit come esposizioni che come giudizi; all’ Algarotti [...] staa cuore 
la suggestione che puod far scaturire un interesse” [330]), colpiscono subito i 
riferimenti letterari al “nostro MartialO” (possibile che a tanti anni di distanza nel 
tempo egli ricordasse perfettamente |’ abilita del cuoco di bordo circa la cottura di 
quel “castrone”?) e al ben noto caso di Demostene e del suo difetto di pronuncia. 
Lo scrittore sembra voler sfruttare l’argomento pit a fondo, per dargli un peso pit 
particolare, per enfatizzarlo in qualche modo mediante le estensioni; e finisce cosi 
col togliere a quelle righe |’aspetto di impressione e di riflessione immediata (per 
cui la data precisa del giorno, il 4 giugno, lascia luogo al pid generico e indetermi- 
nato “un giorno di calma”), col dar loro invece il tono del testo impegnato, meditato, 
studiato - pur senza rinunciare al ritmo scorrevole e discorsivo, ricuperato dal 
possessivo “nostro” premesso al riferimento al cuoco e dall’identificazione di 
Demostene come “antecessore” del fittizio destinatario della lettera, al quale 
l’Algaroiti finge di rivolgersi come in un vero colloquio. 

Un altro esempio assai significativo, sempre nell’ambito della prima lettera, 
riguarda le due tempeste cui la nave fu soggetta nel corso della navigazione. In 
un diario, naturalmente, non conta quale sia stata la peggiore e quale abbia 
maggiormente impressionato il viaggiatore; ma in un’opera scritta ci deve 
necessariamente essere un crescendo: non é ammissibile che la prima esperienza 
sia pil: sconvolgente della seconda. Ecco come la prima di queste tempeste, dopo 
tre giorni di un vento molto forte ormai al largo dall’Inghilterra, viene raccontata 
nel “Giornale”: 


tutto cid non era che un preludio per |’orribil tempesta che avemmo quasi tutto 
il giorno 28 [maggio]. lo credetti che il miglior partito in questo difficil frangente 
di cose fosse lo starsi ben corcato in letto per prevenire il male di stomaco che 
mi avrebbe dato la grandissima agitazione in cui era la nave, e raccomandare il 
governo di lei a marinai e alla Provvidenza. Nulla é pit orribile in fatti di un tale 
spettacolo che io mi levava ad ora ad ora per contemplare. Ponto nox incubat atra 
praeruptus aquae mons di Virgilio mi veniva in mente in mezzo quell’orrore. Le 
onde erano veramente montagne alla merce’ delle quali la nave ora ex summo 
pendebat fluctu, ora sitrovava nell’abisso. Ogni persona era malata fuorché coloro 
che il lungo uso signore di tutte le azioni nostre ha indurito a tale pericoloso 
mestiero.'° (4-5) 


10. Nel brano l’Algarottti, o perché cita a memoria, 0 perché intenzionalmente modifica 
il testo originale di Virgilio per adeguarlo alla sua esperienza, 0 anche, almeno in parte, 


Francesco Algarotti viaggiatore e letterato 267 


Ed ecco come la stessa pagina si presenta nella prima lettera: 


Chi va in mare, aspetti mal tempo. Io non le stard a far la descrizione di una 
burrasca che ci sbatté per sei giorni continui. La potra vedere in Omero o in 
Virgilio; e creda pure, Mylord, che non manco il terque quaterque beati per coloro 
ch’erano in terra. Né manco il que diable allait-il faire dans cette maudite galere ? 
quando io mi vedeva ora in cima, ora in fondo di una gran lama di acqua; quando 
io vedeva 1’Oceano trasformato, per quanto arrivava l’occhio, in nove o dieci 
vastissime montagne ben differenti dalle collinette, dird cosi, del nostro Mediterra- 
neo. Basta, che dopo aver navigato qualche tempo per afferrare Newcastle si muto 
consiglio, e il giorno trenta si venne finalmente a surgere all’Isola di Schelling 
in Ollanda. (8) 


| Al di 14 del pit succinto richiamo a Virgilio (che sara invece pil ampiamente 

 sfruttato nella descrizione della seconda tempesta) e dell’aggiunta della citazione 
di Moliére,'' sono scomparsi tutti i riferimenti personali all’esperienza dell’ Algarotti 
“ben corcato in letto per prevenire il male di stomaco”, del suo affidarsi ai marinai 
e alla Provvidenza, del mal di mare sofferto da tutti i viaggiatori, e via dicendo. 
Il tono assai pit lieve e brillante pud certo documentare anche |’attenuarsi nel ricordo 
dell’emozione provata; ma puo ancor meglio essere giustificato dal fatto che poco 
pit avanti nell’ambito della stessa lettera si legge un’altra descrizione di tempesta, 
assai pill impegnata. Nel “Giornale” |’autore se ne era sbrigato con poche frasi, 
si direbbe in forma quasi di appunti: 


Nessuna tempesta fu né pit subita né pit terribile di questa. I] mare agitato da 
due venti entrava per tutto ed assaliva da ogni lato |’afflitta nostra navicella. Si 
trattava di tagliare la meta dell’albero di maestra. Ella calmo infine un poco verso 
la sera. L’agitazione del mare seguitava ad essere grandissima. 

Il giorno 3 [giugno] la tempesta andava tuttavia calmando, e il nostro vascello 
volteggiava da ogni parte. (8-9) 


Nella lettera la descrizione acquista un tono assai pit drammatico e letterario 
soprattutto per l’uso di una serie di termini tecnici desunti dalla vita marinaresca 
dei quali 1’ Algarotti evidentemente si compiace come di un pezzo di bravura (e dei 
quali per altro non c’é traccia nel “Giornale”): 


Quando in un subito, vegga anche qui Virgilio sul bel principio, 
. . . Stridens aquilone procella 
Velum adversa ferit; tum prora avertit, et undis 


perché non é detto che |’edizione da lui usata riportasse i versi come noi li leggiamo oggi 
nelle edizioni critiche moderne, riprende varie espressioni della burrasca che sconvolge la 
flotta troiana nel primo libro dell’Eneide: “ponto nox non incubat atra” (89); “praeruptus 
aquae mons” (105); “hi summo in fluctu pendent” (106). 


11. Cfr. ed. Bonora, 182 n. 6 e ed. Spaggiari, 8 n. 94-95. 


268 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 


Dat latus, insequitur cumulo praeruptus aquae mons."* 

Il mare combattuto da due venti entrava per tutto, e ci assaliva da ogni parte. Uno 
dei pezzi di ferro, di che é composta la zavorra, per la grande agitazion del navilio, 
era sdrucciolato a orza. Non ci era via di rimetterlo in suo nicchio; il bastimento 
orzava sempre, e riceveva pill acqua, che non se ne potea trombare. Erasi gia preso 
di tagliar la meta dell’albero di maestra, che per la straordinaria sua altezza dava 
al corpo della nave un grandissimo grezzo; quando il mare ricomincio a rimettersi 
in calma, e divenne quasiché spianato il di quattro [giugno]. (9-10) 


Si tratta chiaramente di un crescendo: dalla prima pit blanda descrizione di tempesta 
passiamo alla seconda molto pit efficace e impegnativa, molto pid paurosa, senza 
nessuna preoccupazione per la concreta esperienza autobiografica affatto diversa, 
la cui memoria cede il passo all’effetto letterario, al risultato artistico che sollecita 
e colpisce il lettore per la vivacita della narrazione e per il drammatico succedersi 
degli avvenimenti; si noti in particolare la rielaborazione del finale, con l’idea di 
tagliare “la meta dell’albero di maestra” collocata ad effetto, contro la vera 
successione dei fatti, come una decisione presa poco prima della fine della tempesta 
stessa. 

In conclusione la conoscenza parallela del “Giornale” e dei Viaggi pud dirci 
molto del modo di lavorare dell’ Algarotti - oltre a consentirci, naturalmente, anche 
di evitare alcune sviste che sono presenti nelle edizioni di quest’ ultima opera. Cosi 
ad esempio il riscontro con il manoscritto e con l’edizione del 1760 permette di 
correggere almeno un errore abbastanza evidente che, sfuggito all’attenzione 
dell’autore e dello stampatore nell’edizione del 1763, si é perpetuato in tutte le 
edizioni successive dei Viaggi, incluse le traduzioni inglesi e francesi, fino a quella 
pit recente dello Spaggiari. All’inizio della terza lettera, parlando dei pericoli della 
navigazione nel mar Baltico a causa degli scogli e delle due galee russe che hanno 
il compito di renderla pit sicura controllando che le indicazioni dei luoghi pericolosi 
siano sempre al loro posto, |’ Algarotti aggiunge che 


nel 1515 se ne trovo uno in mezzo al Golfo per un caso assai tragico. Lo manifesto 
il naufragio di un vascello da guerra Olandese, che veleggiava in mezzo a una 
squadra con poco mare, e vento fresco. Non se ne salvarono che cinque sole 
persone, che per fortuna erano nello schifo. Lo scoglio € cinque o sei piedi 
sott’acqua; e lungo la colomba avea tagliato, come rasojo, da prua a poppa il fondo 
della nave. (38) 


L’ episodio riferito con tanta abbondanza di particolari colpisce subito il lettore per 
via dell’anno cui é attribuito: lo scrittore generalmente non lesina simili dettagli, 
ma sono tutti cronologicamente molto vicini al tempo del suo viaggio, non precedenti 
di pili di due secoli. E forse, parlando di un “vascello da guerra... in mezzo a una 
squadra” veleggiante nel mar Baltico nel 1515, non lo avrebbe chiamato olandese. 


12. I versi esatti di Virgilio, Aen. I, 102-105, si possono leggere nell’ed. Bonora, p. 183. 


Francesco Algarotti viaggiatore e letterato 269 


L’anno in ogni modo va corretto in 1715, come documentano sia il “Giornale” (28) 
che l’edizione del 1760 (37); e il tragico episodio rientra in un ordine cronologico 
non eccezionale od insolito nel contesto complessivo dell’ opera. 

Come ha scritto molto bene il Da Pozzo, “il viaggio é per |’ Algarotti la 
condizione indispensabile della propria avventura culturale; il momento del viaggio 
& avvertito come una specie di continuita rispetto all’acquisire e al comunicare” 
(522). La reazione dei contemporanei alla sua opera fu certamente assai favorevole; 
bastera ricordare, per tutti i commenti degli amici e dei conoscenti, quanto gli 
scriveva da Milano il 9 agosto 1760 Giuseppe Pecis: 


Oh quanto sarebbe desiderabile che tutti coloro che viaggiano cosi conoscessero 
le nazioni, e cosi ne parlassero, come ha V.S. Illustrissima conosciuto la nazion 
Russa, e ne ha parlato. Ho lette, e rilette le sue lettere con infinito piacere, ed 
ammirazione. Se di simili lettere ella ci regalera sopra tutte le nazioni che ha 
vedute, potra giustamente acquistarsi il titolo di nuovo Strabone, tanto pero 
dell’antico pil ammirabile, quanto maggiore é la universalita de’ suoi talenti. 
(Algarotti, Opere 14.244) 


Dove si osservi soprattutto che |’ammirazione va non tanto allo scrittore, quanto 
al divulgatore di notizie riguardanti un paese fin allora assai poco conosciuto al 
pubblico italiano, all’illustratore che riporta le sue impressioni dirette e immediate 
e le sue esperienze personali - tutto quello che, in ultima analisi, 1’ Algarotti sembra 
aver fatto molto poco e aver offerto ai suoi lettori solo in maniera molto lata. E 
certo solo il confronto diretto e completo fra il manoscritto e l’opera a stampa sara 
in grado di confermarci dove finisce il lavoro del viaggiatore e dove inizia quello 
del letterato. 


University of Toronto 
OPERE CITATE 


Algarotti, Francesco. “Giornale del viaggio da Londra a Petersbourg nel Vascello “The 
Augusta’ di Mylord Baltimore nel mese di maggio U. S. l’Anno MDCCXXXIX.” Ms. 
Add. 17482. British Library, Londra. 

———. Opere. 17 voll. Venezia: Palese, 1791-94. 

—— —. Pensieri diversi, ed. Gino Ruozzi. Milano: Franco Angeli, 1987. 

———. Saggio di lettere sopra la Russia. Parigi: Briasson, 1760. 

—— —. Viaggi di Russia. lluministi Italiani. 2. Opere di Francesco Algarotti e Saverio Betti- 
nelli, ed. Ettore Bonora. Milano-Napoli: Ricciardi, 1969, pp. 179-275. 

———. Viaggi di Russia, ed. William Spaggiari. Parma: Ugo Guanda Editore, 1991. 

Arato, Franco. Il secolo delle cose. Scienza e storia in Francesco Algarotti. Genova: Marietti, 
1991. 

Da Pozzo, Giovanni. “Tra cultura e avventura: dall’Algarotti al Da Ponte”. Storia della 
cultura veneta, ed. Girolamo Arnaldi e Manlio Pastore Stocchi. Il Settecento. V, I. 
Vicenza: Neri Pozza, 1985, pp. 509-55. 


270 ANTONIO FRANCESCHETTI 


Franceschetti, Antonio. “L’Algarotti in Russia: dal Giornale ai Viaggi”, Lettere italiane, 
35 (1983): 312-32. 

———. “Francesco Algarotti e l’Accademia di Pietroburgo”, Letteratura e scienza nella 
storia della cultura italiana. Atti del IX Congresso dell’ Associazione Internazionale 
per gli Studi di Lingua e Letteratura Italiana (Palermo-Messina-Catania, 21-25 aprile 
1976), ed. Vittore Branca et al. Palermo: Manfredi, 1978, pp. 589-597. 

Goggi, Gianluigi. “Diderot-Raynal e Algarotti sulla Russia”, Letteratura fra centro e periferia. 
Studi in memoria di Pasquale Alberto De Lisio, ed. Gioacchino Paparelli e Sebastiano 
Martelli. Napoli: Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane, 1987, pp. 543-84. 

Guagnini, Elvio. “Problemi aperti sulla letteratura italiana di viaggio” in Literatur ohne 
Grenzen. Festschrift fiir Erika Kanduth, ed. Monika Pauer, et al. Frankfurt am Mein: 
Peter Lang, 1993, pp.134-142. 

Hanway, Jonas. An Historical Account of the British Trade over the Caspian Sea. ... 4 vol. 
Londra: s. ¢., 1753. 

Kéralio, Louis Félix Guinement de. Histoire de la guerre des Russes et des impériaux, contre 
les Turcs, en 1736, 1737, 1738 & 1739, & de la paix de Belgrade qui la termina. Avec 
les cartes & plans nécessaires. 2 voll. Parigi: Debure, 1780. 

Laugier, Marc Antoine. Histoire des négotiations pour la paix conclue a Belgrade, le 18 
Septembre 1739. Entre l’empereur, la Russie, & la Porte Ottomane, par la médiation, 
& sous la garantie de la France. 2 voll. Paris: Duchesne, 1768. 

Locatelli, Francesco. Lettres moscovites. Paris: Au dépens de la Compagnie, 1736. 

Manstein, Christophe Hermann de. Mémoires historiques, politiques et militaires sur la Russie 
depuis l’année 1727, jusqu’a 1744, par le Général de Manstein. Nouvelle édition 
collationnée sur le manuscript original corrigé par la main de Voltaire. 2 vol. Paris: 
A. Frank, 1860. 

Mazzuchelli, Giammaria. Gli Scrittori d'Italia. 1. Brescia: Bossini, 1753. 

Parenti, Marino. Dizionario dei luoghi di stampa falsi, inventati o supposti in opere di autori 
e traduttori italiani con un’appendice sulla data “Italia” e un saggio sui falsi luoghi 
italiani usati all’estero, o in Italia, da autori stranieri. Firenze: Sansoni Antiquariato, 
1951. 

Rondeau, Jane: cfr. Vigor 

Ruozzi, Gino. “/ pensieri diversi di Francesco Algarotti: caratteri tipologici”, /talianistica, 
13, 3 (1984): 329-43. 

Spaggiari, William. L’Armonico Tremore. Cultura settentrionale dall’Arcadia all’eta 
napoleonica. Milano: Franco Angeli, 1990. 

———. “Un illuminista in Moscovia: i Viaggi di Russia di Francesco Algarotti”, La lettera- 
tura di viaggio. Storia e prospettive di un genere letterario, ed. Maria Enrica D’ Agostini. 
Milano: Guerini, 1987, pp. 215-27. 

Vigor, Mrs. William [Jane Rondeau]. Letters from a lady, who resided some years in Russia, 
to her friend in England. With historical notes. London: J. Dodsley, 1775. Seconda 
ediz. 1777. 

Voltaire, Francois Marie Arouet de. Correspondence, ed. Theodore Besterman. XXXV: 
Genéve: Institut et Musée Voltaire, 1958. 








LUCA CLERICI 





Alla scoperta del Bel Paese: 1 titoli 
delle testimonianze dei viaggiatori italiani 
in Italia (1750-1900) 


1. UNA SORPRENDENTE LACUNA 


- Nonostante il crescente interesse degli ultimi anni, basta un’indagine bibliografica 
superficiale per accorgersi come i testi di viaggio non si possano certo ritenere un 
genere fra i pit frequentati da critici e storici della letteratura.' Considerando in 


1. Una panoramica dei pil recenti studi dedicati al genere nonché una radiografia delle 
ricerche in atto in Italia é in corso di stampa presso |’editore Palumbo di Palermo a cura 
di Alida Fliri e Anna Storti. Si tratta degli atti di un convegno organizzato dall’ Associazione 
Italiana di studi sulla Letteratura di Viaggio (Presidente Giorgio Cusatelli) all’ Universita 
di Trieste nell’aprile del 1995, intitolato “Letteratura di viaggio: bilanci e acquisizioni 
recenti”. Per una rassegna relativa al decennio 1980-1990, limitatamente al XVIII secolo, 
cfr. Elvio Guagnini, “Letteratura di viaggio del Settecento. Edizioni e studi degli anni 
| Ottanta”, in Un decennio di storiografia italiana sul secolo XVIII, ac. di Alberto Postigliola, 
(Napoli, Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Filosofici, 1995), pp. 273-286 (sono gli atti 
dell’omonimo convegno tenutosi dal 24 al 27 ottobre 1990 a Vico Equense). Nel complesso, 
quando si tenga presente la valutazione di Giorgio Raimondo Cardona, troppo poco é cambiato 
negli ultimi dieci anni: “Eppure la letteratura italiana non inquadra volentieri nel suo canone 
i viaggi di cui pure é ricca; quasi che i molti dati materiali e concreti di cui essi sono 
necessariamente costruiti inquinino in qualche modo un ideale di disinteressata e disincarnata 
_ letterarieta. [...] Nelle storie della letteratura manca quindi un capitolo sui viaggi” (“I viaggi 
€ le scoperte”, in Letteratura italiana, dir. Alberto Asor Rosa, vol. V, Le questioni, Torino, 
Einaudi, 1986, p. 687). Dunque, se 1’“ormai stereotipata quanto immancabile lamentazione 
sulla scarsa attenzione rivolta dalla critica a questo genere letterario” denunciata da Alida 
Fliri (“Per una riflessione teorica sul genere “letteratura di viaggio”: il contributo della 
germanistica”, Problemi, settembre-dicembre 1988, pp. 213) non é giustificata per quanto 
riguarda la germanistica, é abbastanza sintomatico il fatto che il punto di riferimento 
metodologico pit aggiornato disponibile in italiano sia questo articolo (a conferma del primato 
della riflessione tedesca sul tema, tanto pill a confronto di quella nostrana, cfr. anche Carla 
Consolini, “Reisebeschreibung nel Settecento tedesco. Considerazioni sulla individuazione 
del genere”, in La letteratura di viaggio. Storia e prospettive di un genere letterario, ac. 
di Maria Enrica D’Agostini, Milano, Guerini e Associati, 1987, pp. 75-88). 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


272 LUCA CLERICI 


particolare gli studi relativi agli autori italiani e quelli dedicati ad autori stranieri 
che dell’Italia hanno lasciato testimonianze odeporiche, colpisce subito una notevole 
asimmetria, e una sorprendente lacuna. Infatti, ad una folta tradizione critica dedicata 
ai tour in Italia di scrittori stranieri, corrispondono ben poche indagini sui viaggiatori 
italiani, valutazione confermata dal numero delle antologie allestite fino ad oggi. 
Limitandomi a contare i volumi in lingua italiana, quelli che includono brani di 
autori stranieri in viaggio nel Bel paese sono almeno una cinquantina, mentre per 
quanto riguarda i traveller italiani le antologie di riferimento rimangono ancora 
i Viaggiatori del Settecento curati da Vincenti e i Letterati memorialisti e viaggiatori 
del Settecento di Bonora.” Si tratta di due raccolte emblematiche di una concezione 
tacitamente selettiva della materia: entrambe presentano infatti soltanto viaggi 
all’estero, con l’unica comune eccezione dei Viaggi alle Due Sicilie e in alcune 
parti dell’Appennino (1792-1797) di Lazzaro Spallanzani.* Per quanto sorprendente, 
é facile constatare la lacuna evidenziata da questa curiosa coincidenza. A tutt’oggi, 
non c’é neppure una pubblicazione, non si hanno bibliografie e tanto meno volumi 
antologici, non esiste — che io sappia — neppure un articolo su un argomento di 
grande interesse e di particolare attualita culturale. Fino ad oggi “viaggiatori italiani” 
ha significato ipso facto “testimonianze da paesi stranieri”: credo sia il momento 
di iniziare a studiare i viaggiatori italiani in Italia.‘ 

Proprio per avviare la riflessione su questo tema, per sottoporre l’argomento 
all’attenzione degli studiosi, per offrire a lettori esperti e meno colti testi spesso 
memorabili e in molti casi pressoché dimenticati, sto lavorando da tempo ad 
un’antologia di viaggiatori italiani in Italia.° Il periodo entro cui ho svolto la ricerca 


2. Viaggiatori del Settecento, a c. di Leonello Vincenti (Torino, Utet, 1950); Letterati 


memorialisti e viaggiatori del Settecento, ac. di Ettore Bonora (Milano-Napoli, Ricciardi, 
1951). 


3. D’ora in poi, al titolo citato segue fra parentesi, quando non gia indicata, la data della 
prima edizione 0 comunque dell’edizione pit antica di cui ho notizia. 


4. Gli unici due contributi a me noti in materia sono La Toscana descritta dai naturalisti 
del Settecento. Pagine di storia del pensiero scientifico (Firenze, Le Monnier, 1945) di 
Francesco RodolicoeL Italia (negli scrittori italiani e stranieri) di Luigi Parpagliolo (Roma, 
Morpurgo, 1928-’41, 6 voll). L’antologia di Rodolico presenta testi di viaggiatori italiani 
in Italia tanto disciplinarmente selezionati da costituire un corpus specifico, mentre la 
collezione di passi (non esclusivamente tratti da opere odeporiche) allestita da Parpagliolo 
riveste ben poco interesse. Estraneo alla letteratura di viaggio in quanto raccolta antologica 
di pagine tratte dalle monografie dell’omonima collana é invece il volume Scrittori di 
“Attraverso l’Italia” 1930/1972, ac. di Paolo Volponi (Milano, Touring Club Italiano, 1984). 


5. Il volume sara edito a Milano da II] Saggiatore; in appendice includera la bibliografia dei 
Viaggiatori italiani in Italia da cui ho tratto i titoli qui citati. L’uscita é prevista per l’autunno 
del 1996. 





Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 273 


_va dal Settecento ad oggi, e la prima fase del lavoro é naturalmente consistita nella 
_redazione di una bibliografia dei testi, rivelatasi interessante al punto da spingermi 
a svolgere questo ragionamento preliminare sui titoli inventariati. Un modo per 
dare un’idea dei materiali reperiti, con la speranza che il mio interesse venga 
-condiviso da altri. Per semplici ragioni di convenienza, in questo articolo ho 
_avvicinato gli estremi cronologici: si va dal 1750 al 1900; all’interno di tali traguardi 
-temporali, i titoli che ho individuato sono circa 1.300.° 


6. Per quanto riguarda il reperimento dei dati, misono avvalso delle bibliografie tradizionali, 
- dibibliografie regionalie locali, dello spoglio dei cataloghi di numerose biblioteche pubbliche 
(fra quelle meno frequentate dagli specialisti cito la biblioteca del Touring Club Italiano 
di Milano), in particolare di quelle in possesso di fondi specifici (Sommariva alla Braidense 

di Milano, Tursi alla Marciana di Venezia ecc.). Ricchi di informazioni si sono rivelati tanto 

il Catalogo della Biblioteca del Senato del Regno (Roma, Tipografia del Senato, 1879-1886, 
| 4 voll.) quanto il Catalogo delle Opere e carte esistenti nella Biblioteca del Capo di Stato 
| Maggiore. Aprile 1883 (Roma, Carlo Voghera Tip., 1883), nonché alcuni cataloghi di 

biblioteche ministeriali (soprattutto del Ministero della Marina, di quello di Agricoltura, 
| Industria e Commercio). Utilii repertori geografici, peres. De Magistris L. Fil., Bibliografia 
. geografica della regione italiana. Saggio per l’anno 1899 (Roma, Presso la Societa Geografica 
Italiana, 1901) e i cataloghi dei fondi (a partire dal fondo Almagia). Ricchi di notizie sono 
| sia i cataloghi di stampatori del Sette e dell’Ottocento, sia i cataloghi antiquari, non di rado 
_ veri e propri repertori bibliografici (cfr. ad es.: Italia. Viaggio pittoresco per tutta Italia. 
| Opere generali — Guide — Viaggi in Italia — Carte geografiche, topografiche, panoramiche, 
| vedute di citta — costumi. Firenze, La Medicea, s.d.). Infine, si sono dimostrate molto 
_ produttive alcune bibliografie della prima meta dell’ Ottocento, come il Manuale bibliografico 
_ del viaggiatore in Italia di Pietro Lichtenthal (Milano, Giovanni Silvestri, 1844, “terza 
: edizione originale notabilmente accresciuta e migliorata”). Per individuare i manoscritti, 
| invece, ho passato in rassegna alcuni regesti (sistematicamente gli Inventari dei manoscritti 
delle biblioteche d’Nalia, ac. di Giuseppe Mazzatinti prima e di Albano Sorbelli poi, edito 
| a Forli, Casa Editrice Luigi Bordandini, il cui primo volume usci nel 1890; l’opera é stata 
| ristampata a Firenze, Leo S. Olschki, 1955) e alcuni cataloghi (i cataloghi dei manoscritti 
. della Biblioteca Comunale e della Biblioteca Nazionale Braidense di Milano, della Biblioteca 
| Berio di Genova, della Palatina di Parma, della Biblioteca dell’Archiginnasio di Bologna, 
- della Queriniana di Brescia, dell’Angelo Mai di Bergamo e della Biblioteca Nazionale 
| Universitaria di Torino). Circa gli articoli apparsi in rivista, ho accolto quelli che mi € capitato 
- di individuare, senza pero condurre alcuno spoglio sistematico. La quantita dei titoli 
| inventariati varia non solo in relazione all’epoca, ma anche in rapporto agli strumenti 
' bibliografici a disposizione: per esempio, fra 1860 e 1880 le indicazioni sono molto numerose 
| perché si puo consultare — oltre ad altri repertori minori — la Bibliografia italiana. Giornale 

dell’Associazione Tipografico-libraria Italiana compilata sui documenti comunicati dal 
' Ministero dell’ Istruzione Pubblica (Milano, Associazione Tipografico-libraria Italiana, edita 
| a partire dal 1861). Per i volumi la cui tematica italiana non si evince dal titolo, qualora 
' non liavessi sfogliati personalmente, fa fede della pertinenza dell’argomento il fatto diaverne 

trovato menzione in repertori che li registrano in quanto viaggi italiani. Tutte le volte che 


274 LUCA CLERICI 


Come per la definizione di qualunque corpus di opere, il primo problema da 
affrontare é quello della delimitazione del campo di indagine. Cosi, ho escluso dalla 
mia bibliografia sia i testi scritti da autori italiani in lingue straniere (e in latino),’ 
sia quelli dialettali, del tipo La Naunia descritta al viaggiatore (1829) di Gioseffo 
Pinamonti. Quanto ai testi poetici, la scelta deve essere fatta ad hoc, tanto pit 
considerando la maggiore liberta di titolazione attestata in queste opere rispetto 
all’ odeporica in prosa. Se infatti alcuni componimenti manifestano chiaramente nel 
titolo la loro indole documentaria (é il caso del poemetto di Domenico Lorenzo 
Garola, II viaggio dell’Alpi della valle del Po, del 1804), altri appaiono piuttosto 
divagazioni (la “fantasia” di M. C. Astraldi, Bordighera, del 1874) o mostrano 
addirittura un carattere dissertativo: per sostenere i pregi e i vantaggi della vita 
sedentaria, il componimento anonimo / viaggi (1793) passa in rassegna e critica 
i principali luoghi comuni della pubblicistica favorevole al viaggiare. Non potendo 
per ora entrare nel merito del singolo componimento, ho escluso dalla bibliografia 
le opere in versi, salvo poche dichiarate eccezioni. Come é facile immaginare, 
nonostante queste distinzioni preliminari |’insieme dei testi rimane enorme: 
comprende infatti tutte le opere di viaggio in prosa scritte in lingua italiana. Valutare 
quali siano quelle pertinenti rimane questione assai spinosa, tanto pit tenendo 


la conoscenza del contenuto me lo ha permesso, ho registrato anche libri i cui titoli sono 
fuorvianti rispetto alla mia ricerca: ad esempio, in Monaco di Baviera (1838) Giovanni Luca 
Cavazzi della Somaglia racconta dettagliatamente il viaggio d’andata e diritorno, descrivendo 
il borgo di Chiavenna e soffermandosi su Valtellina, Stelvio, Tirolo, lago di Costanza e 
Spluga. Compaiono nella mia bibliografia pure libri in cuil’Italia é solo uno dei paesi visitati; 
cid accade spesso quando il viaggio parte dall’Italia meridionale alla volta dei paesi nordici, 
e la penisola viene quindi attraversata; in questi casi, a fare la differenza é lo spazio dedicato 
all’itinerario italiano. Ribadisco che l’edizione citata non va automaticamente ritenuta la 
prima, ma la pit antica di cui ho notizia; inoltre, potrebbe capitare che qualche testo non 
sia originale ma tradotto (non sempre mi é stato infatti possibile stabilirne |’autenticita). 
In definitiva, non bisogna dimenticare le insidie insite nella scelta di ragionare basandosi 
sui titoli: capita ad esempio che un’informazione bibliografica incompleta induca ad equivocare 
sull’indole e sul contenuto dell’opera. Nonostante le apparenze, /l Trentino, appunti e 
impressioni di viaggio (1880) di G. Gambillo é un Saggio di bibliografia trentina, come 
recita la seconda riga del frontespizio. Infine, nel caso dei manoscritti, non di rado il titolo 
€ di molto successivo alla stesura del testo e gli é stato attribuito da terzi. Un fatto che spiega 
la minore adesione di questi titoli alla canonistica: sono casi in cui la mediazione (€ 
normalizzazione) tipografico-editoriale non ha interferito. 


7. Valgano ad esempio sia De suscepto itinere subalpino epistolae tres di Felice Maria Nerini 
(1753) sia Un voyage a Paris (1843) di Giuseppe Asti, oppure i celebri Voyages en différents 
pays del’Europe, de 1774 a 1776, ouLettres écrites de l’Allemagne, de la Suisse, de |’Italie, 
de la Sicile et de Paris (1777) di Carlo Antonio Pilati. Prima di varcare il Monviso, Giuseppe 
Asti (“Maitre de Langue Frangaise 4 Milan”, come recita il frontespizio) dedica un centinaio 
di pagine a Torino. 





Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 275 


presente un fatto: l’odeporica é un genere polimorfo e addirittura — in mollti esiti 
» testuali — semiletterario. 


Il punto é che nella letteratura di viaggio si compendiano, naturalmente in 


| proporzioni variabili, un’istanza vincolante d’ indole praticistica ed una libera esigenza 


di carattere “espressivo”, due componenti tipiche sempre ben percepibili sia sul 


, versante dell’elaborazione del testo, sia su quello della sua fruizione. Da un lato 


l’opera concerne sempre |’ordine dei fatti materiali: il tema del viaggio come 


» esperienza personale implica una connotazione precisamente biografica dell’inventio 
: e una dispositio tendenzialmente obbligata, scandita dalla successione delle tappe 
del tragitto. Tanto pit l’autore trattera liberamente i suoi contenuti e la loro 
+ organizzazione rispetto a questi vincoli, tanto meno prescrittive saranno le modalita 
+ di lettura del testo: le convenzioni formali poste in essere nell’opera entrano in gioco 


qui, ed é qui che si dispiegano molteplici possibilita. Osservando la questione dalla 
prospettiva del destinatario, ad essere influenzato é il tipo di fruizione. Si va dalla 


| guida, un testo espressamente concepito per la consultazione pratica, in cui il tasso 


di adesione alla realta tematizzata é massimo, al romanzo di viaggio, opera di pura 
invenzione che si colloca oltre i confini del genere, anche in ragione della sua 


| attitudine ad una lettura continuativa liberamente ludica.* Poiché fra questi due 


| estremi tipologici la fenomenologia dei testi @ quanto mai articolata, conviene 
- cominciare ad indicare proprio quel che esula dai miei interessi. Con una awvertenza: 
| leragioni fondamentali per cui ho impostato una ricerca bibliografica poco selettiva 


sono due. Essendo la mia rassegna di titoli un intervento preliminare in un campo 


| di indagine nuovo, mi é parso opportuno abbondare nella varieta dei testi per varie 


ragioni classificati come odeporici: spettera ad ulteriori studi vagliare e magari 
scremare i dati, presto disponibili con la pubblicazione della bibliografia dei 


| viaggiatori italiani in Italia. Non bisogna in secondo luogo perdere di vista |’indole 


“aperta” delle classificazioni tradizionali delle opere di viaggio, né l’identita dei 


| maggiori fondi e delle collezioni pit interessanti, tutte orientate ad includere sia 


le guide, sia le descrizioni, sia le illustrazioni sia tanti altri tipi di libri ed opuscoli, 
non sempre connotati letterariamente in senso stretto.? Del resto, a me pare che 


8. Nella considerazione di parecchi studiosi la letteratura di viaggio intesa come genere stinge 


( nella categoria del viaggio in letteratura: I viaggi nella narrativa di Donatella Capodarca 


(Modena, Mucchi, 1994) é un recente esempio di antologia della critica impostata su questa 


: concezione allargata del tema, che assume cosi un’ampiezza semantica e storica inusitata. 


» 9. Penso ai repertori canonici, per esempio a / libri di viaggio e le guide della raccolta Luigi 
| Vittorio Fossati Bellani. Catalogo descrittivo, a c. di Antonio Pescarzoli, Prefazione di 
| Giuseppe De Luca, Ricordo di Vittorio Fossati Bellani di Marino Moretti (Roma, Edizioni 
! di Storia e Letteratura, 1957, 3 voll.), oppure a Viaggi in Europa. Secoli XVI-XIX. Catalogo 
| del fondo “Fiammetia Olschki”, Schede a c. di Fiammetta Olschki, Indici a c. di Simona 
| Di Marco, Premessa di Giorgio Cusatelli (Firenze, Olschki, 1990). Un’impostazione evidente 


276 LUCA CLERICI 


uno degli aspetti piu caratteristici e di maggiore interesse dell’ odeporica sia proprio 
la sua poliedrica varieta.'° A conferma, distinguere fra generici libri di viaggio 
e letteratura di viaggio stricto sensu & impresa non di rado assai ardua: il margine 
oltre il quale la letteratura di viaggio perde la sua connotazione artistica e il libro 
di viaggio assurge ad opera letteraria, magari di infimo livello, é unmargine quanto 
mai sfumato."' 


sin dal titolo in Dante Cremonini, L ’/talia nelle vedute e carte geografiche dal 1493 al 1894. 
Libri di viaggi e atlanti. Catalogo bibliografico di una collezione privata (Modena, Franco 
Cosimo Panini, 1991). A sottolineare la varieta della raccolta Tursi € Nereo Vianello, in 
La raccolta Angiolo Tursi nella Biblioteca Marciana, s.1. (Venezia), Stamperia di Venezia, 
s.d. (1968). Anche l’imprescindibile lavoro bibliografico di Pietro Amat di San Filippo é 
del resto orientato verso una concezione allargata di letteratura di viaggio (cfr. soprattutto 
V’Appendice agli studi biografici e bibliografici sulla storia della geografia in Italia, Roma, 
Societa Geografica Italiana, 1884 e la Biografia dei viaggiatori italiani colla bibliografia 
delle loro opere, Roma, Societa Geografica Italiana, 1882, seconda edizione). 


10. Per una storia della letteratura di viaggio italiana moderna e contemporanea concepita 
come genere costituito da svariate tipologie specifiche di testi, rinvio a due miei interventi, 
entrambi intitolati “La letteratura di viaggio”, inclusi nel Manuale di letteratura italiana. 
Storia per generi e problemi, ac. di Franco Brioschie Costanzo Di Girolamo (Torino, Bollati 
Boringhieri, I: 1993; II: 1994; III: 1995), opera in 5 volumi in via di completamento. Si 
leggono nel vol. 3, Dalla meta del Settecento all’Unita d'Italia (pp. 590-610) e nel vol. 4, 
Dall’Unita d’Nalia alla fine del Novecento (in corso di stampa). 


11. Se la grande famiglia dei libri di viaggio manifesta una fisionomia assai variegata, lo 
stesso vale non solo per la letteratura di viaggio, ma anche per specifici sottogeneri sia letterari 
sia extra-letterari. Ad esempio, nell’edizione del 1864 delle sue Peregrinazioni, Davide 
Bertolotti dichiara in modo esplicito l’indole composita del suo lavoro, che contiene “novelline 
e piccole scene accadutemi, versied impressioni de’ pit celebri poeti e viaggiatori riguardanti 
i monumenti e le citta descritte” (“Prefazione” a Peregrinazioni in Toscana, Torino, 
Tipografia dei Compositori Tipografi, 1864, c. 3 recto). Tale eterogeneita é pero dichiarata 
sin dal titolo gia nel 1824, nel libro di Giuseppe Pozzi Viaggio da Milano alla Provenza 
francese [...] colla descrizione delle varie citta [...] col racconto d’alcuni aneddoti. Un buon 
esempio della commistione fra opera narrativa, almanacco e guida ferroviaria € Un romanzo 
in vapore da Firenze a Livorno. Guida Storico-Umoristica (1856) di Carlo Collodi, un 
volumetto commissionatogli da un certo tipografo Riva (all’epoca stampatore dell’ Orario 
della strada ferrata) al fine di confortare il viaggio dei passeggeri della linea Leopolda (la 
consuetudine di offrire prose amene di conforto al viaggiatore in treno continua anche nel 
Novecento, con la collana mensile “Simpaticissima” edita da Formiggini negli anni ’20, 
e nel dopoguerra con la mondadoriana “Le Pleiadi”). Ma i testi in cui si intrecciano diverse 
tipologie formali sono innumerevoli: abbondano fra l’altro le guide presentate come 
almanacchi, tipo Milano. Almanacco storico-pratico per l’anno 1821 (1821) e, al contrario, 
gli almanacchi che dal titolo sembrano guide: non per nulla la Guida per la citta di Torino 
(1780-1786) sin dal 1781 diventa Almanacco reale (cfr. Lodovica Braida, Le guide del tempo. 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 277 


Fra i titoli esclusi durante lo spoglio ci sono anzitutto quelli dei testi che, pur 
| includendo testimonianze di viaggio, appartengono ad altri generi specifici: ecco 
_ la ragione della mancanza delle autobiografie (a partire dalla canonica Vita alfieriana 
_e dalle Memorie di Giuseppe Garibaldi, mai citate a questo proposito'’”) e dei 
- numerosissimi epistolari in cui si leggono celebri lettere di viaggio di autori famosi, 

quando non costituiscano un vero e proprio carteggio di viaggio. Premessa 
discriminante per |’acquisizione del titolo é infatti la coestensione fra |’ opera e gli 
elementi testuali che la qualificano come intenzionalmente di viaggio: il criterio 
consente di includere sia gli opuscoli e i libretti per nozze, sia brevi testi manoscritti. 
Mancano inoltre dal mio elenco i titolo ascrivibili alla famiglia — se cosi si pud 
definire — dei “meta-viaggi”: penso agli scritti apodemici, cioé ai manuali di 
istruzione per i viaggiatori, alle divagazioni teoriche sul viaggio,'* ma anche ai 
titoli che animano in ogni epoca il dibattito fra studiosi e, non di rado, fra dilettanti 
locali di topografia, archeologia ecc. Titoli a volte assai polemici, come nel caso 
del Guazzabuglio di spropositi detti da Alessandro Marchi nella nuova Guida di 
Padova (1856).'* Poiché scienze come la geologia, la vulcanologia, la botanica 
storicamente si emancipano dal grande alveo della generica competenza naturalistica 
specializzandosi sempre pit, nel corso dell’Ottocento e a maggior ragione del 
Novecento i titoli afferenti a discipline specifiche come queste accolti nella mia 
bibliografia diminuiscono fino a scomparire del tutto. Sono invece contemplati in 
un certo numero fino alla prima meta dell’Ottocento, poiché si tratta di testi non 
dichiaratamente tecnici né ancora troppo specialisticamente orientati: in questa 
famiglia di opere la distinzione fra viaggio scientifico e viaggio letterario non si 
é ancora affermata.'° 


Produzione, contenuti e forme degli almanacchi piemontesi nel Settecento, Torino, 
Deputazione subalpina di storia patria, 1989, pp. 113-114). 


12. Il Secondo periodo 1848-1859 delle Memorie (1872) di Garibaldi si apre con il Viaggio 
in Italia. 


13. Cito solo due titoli, agli estremi cronologici qui presi in considerazione (ma la bibliografia 
specifica é tanto ricca quanto poco nota): Paolo Gagliardi, Discorso intorno al viaggiare 
(1757) e L. F. De Magistris, Viaggiare per conoscere. Frammenti di conferenza (1901). 


14. Naturalmente, questo genere di intervento puo essere di tipo non censorio ma integrativo: 
per esempio, Giovanni Spano pubblica degli Emendamenti ed aggiunte all’itinerario dell’isola 
di Sardegna del Conte Alberto della Marmora (1874). Il riferimento é al Voyage en Sardaigne, 
ou Description statistique, physique et politique de cette ile, avec des recherches sur ses 
productions naturelles et ses antiquités (2a ed. riveduta, 1939), gia proposto con successo 
in traduzione dallo stesso Spano nel 1868 (/tinerario dell’isola della Sardegna del Conte 
Alberto della Marmora tradotto e compendiato con note). 


15. Se “II naturalista viaggiatore del Settecento concludeva la sua fatica [...] con una relazione 
dove le vicende personali si fondevano e confondevano con la totalita dei risultati scientifici 


278 LUCA CLERICI 


A partire dal secolo dei lumi é la letteratura di viaggio nel suo complesso a © 
svilupparsi secondo un processo di differenziazione. Se nel Seicento le guide spesso 
contenevano pure le istruzioni fondamentali per viaggiare, e molte opere odeporiche | 
fornivano insieme al resoconto dell’esperienza dell’autore una gran quantita di © 
informazioni didascaliche utili a chi si accingeva a partire, con il passare degli anni | 
tali contenuti hanno assunto piena autonomia testuale e indipendenza reciproca, dando | 
origine a varieta specifiche di libri di viaggio. Non solo. Nel corso del tempo certi / 
sottogeneri hanno finito per accentuare contrastivamente alcune loro caratteristiche — 
strutturali, ed ecco perché da un tipo di testo canonico, fino ad una certa epoca 
integrato nel grande genere “letteratura di viaggio”, discendano in epoche successive | 
libri estranei a questo insieme di opere. Cosi, dalle illustrazioni di luoghi, dai libri - 
“pittoreschi” (in cui la componente vicaria dell’incisione decorativa va acquistando | 
rilevanza sempre maggiore), derivano i volumi fotografici e le strenne geografiche | 
illustrate ancora oggi in auge, un genere che ha evidentemente acquisito caratteri — 
specifici. Accanto a deviazioni come queste, vi sono invece tipi di libri di viaggio 
che si tramandano nel tempo senza radicali mutamenti. Negli anni Cinquanta e | 
Sessanta del XIX secolo é ad esempio ancora attestata la consuetudine di comparare 
due luoghi lontani: in Roma e Londra. Confronti del 1858 Giacomo Margotti | 
paragona la vita morale la cultura e la storia delle due capitali, mentre allo scoccare | 
dell’ Unita nazionale Vincenzo Rossi si impegna pit tecnicamente in Delle condizioni | 
dell’Italia nell’agricoltura, nelle manifatture e nel commercio, in confronto | 
dell’Inghilterra e della Francia (1861). Se il sottogenere del confronto fra citta o 
nazioni é tipico del Seicento,'® la prassi di documentare viaggi di terze persone | 
illustri é ancora pit antica, e non meno longeva: ad incaricarsi nel 1828 di descrivere 
il Viaggio per ’Alta Italia del Ser. Principe di Toscana é Filippo Pizzichi. Ma la | 
storia della letteratura di viaggio é anche fatta di affermazioni di nuove convenzioni 
rappresentative. La moda delle testimonianze scritte di passeggiate montane dilaga 
nella seconda meta del XIX secolo. E’ allora che il termine “escursione” assume | 
una connotazione prevalentemente alpinistica, almeno a partire dal 1861, quando 
Giuseppe Colombo stampa Un’escursione al Moncenisio. Fenomeno pit specifico 
é invece quello delle escursioni scolastiche organizzate, cui era uso far seguire un 
puntuale resoconto, non di rado a stampa. Se nel 1867 Celestino Peroglio pubblica 
una Proposta di una escursione geografica ai giovani studenti d’Italia, al IV 


oo 


A a a | —- 





raggiunti”, nella seconda meta dell’ Ottocento “una cosa é la narrazione, il diario del viaggio, 
altra cosa sono i particolari risultati scientifici che vengono pubblicati nelle riviste 
specializzate” (Francesco Rodolico, Introduzione a Naturalisti - Esploratori dell’Ottocento 
italiano. Antologia scientifica e letteraria, Firenze, Le Monnier, 1967 p. 15 e p. 16). 


16. Secondo Marziano Guglielminetti “tema centrale della prosa di viaggio barocca” € proprio 
“il confronto fra le condizioni d’ Italia e quelle degli altri paesi” (“Introduzione” a Viaggiatort 
del Seicento, Torino, Utet, 1969, p. 23). 





Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 279 


Congresso Geografico Italiano del 1901 Giuseppe Bruzzo interviene Sull’opportunita 
di promuovere escursioni geografiche fra gli allievi degli Istituti tecnici e delle Scuole 
normali."’ Poco alla volta tale pratica va diffondendosi e specializzandosi, come 
dimostrano alcune missioni organizzate per scopi scientificamente molto mirati. 
E’ il caso della gita documentata dall’Escursione geologica da Lecce a Brindisi 
eseguita dagli alunni della II Classe dell’Istituto Tecnico di Lecce il giorno 27 
maggio 1899, un testo a pil mani rimasto manoscritto. 

Con cid, sono passato ad elencare alcuni titoli che ho accolto nella mia ricerca: 
proprio in ragione del particolare polimorfismo del genere ho iniziato menzionando 
quelli meno prevedibili, le opere meno canoniche. Fra queste, registro i testi d’indole 
tendenzialmente saggistica come I’inedito Sulle passioni, costumi e modi di vivere 
dei Veneziani (1791) di Luigi Orteschi, oppure tutti quelli di ispirazione illuministica 
analoghi alle Riflessioni economiche politiche morali sopra il lusso, l’agricoltura, 
la popolazione, le manifatture eil commercio dello Stato pontificio (1795) di Nicola 
Corona. Si tratta di opere caratteristiche per un fatto. In ordine alla conformazione 
dei singoli testi, la letteratura di viaggio italiana moderna e contemporanea é 
contrassegnata da una ricorrente dialettica fra due polarita. Da un lato il polo della 
rappresentazione esperienziale, dell’accentuazione personalistica delle parole del 
testimone viaggiatore, della concretezza individuata da precise coordinate spazio- 
temporali del suo dire; dall’altro il polo della focalizzazione saggistica, dell’indeter- 
minatezza impersonale delle considerazioni di chi dice “io”, dell’astrattezza 
generalizzante delle opinioni espresse. Qualunque sia il polo verso il quale propende 


_ la compagine testuale, non pud mancare nell’opera il contrappeso esercitato 


dall’opposta opzione rappresentativa. I libri di Orteschi e di Corona, come molti 


17. “In nessuno dei nostri Congressi, se io ben ricordo, é stata fatta la proposta di promuovere 
fra gli studenti escursioni geografiche, la cui utilita € pure universalmente riconosciuta. [...] 
Gli € infatti nel mite verde dei campi, sotto l’azzurro del cielo, fra i monti e i laghi, che 
la natura attrae la nostra curiosita e ci invita a indagare le forme e a svelare gli arcani. [...] 
In Francia le gite alpestri, introdotte dopo il 1870 nei programmi scolastici, si vanno ripetendo 
con scopi scientifici, come nella Germania, nell’ Austria, nell’Inghilterra, nella Russia [...] 
ma in Italia poco o nulla si fa di tutto questo, se si prescinde dalle gite scolastiche, che a 


_ cominciare dal 1891 sono compiute per iniziativa del Club Alpino”, ma che “ben di rado 


_ possono avere scientificamente gli eccellenti risultati di una vera escursione geografica” 


(Giuseppe Bruzzo, “Sull’opportunita di promuovere escursioni geografiche fra gli allievi 
degli Istituti tecnici e delle Scuole normali”, in Atti del IV Congresso Geografico Italiano, 
Milano 10-14 aprile 1901, pubblicati a c. del Comitato esecutivo, Milano, Premiato 
Stabilimento Tipografico P. B. Bellini, 1902, p. 459). Fanno parte di questo tipo di 
pubblicistica anche opuscoli come quello scritto da Giacomo Balestreri (direttore del Regio 
Ginnasio di Bra) intitolato Saluto a Cherasco. Per la passeggiata ginnastica a Cherasco 
fatta dai convittori ed alunni ginnasiali, tecnici ed elementari di Bra il 17 maggio 1883. 
Brindisi semi-serio (s.d., ma 1883). 


280 LUCA CLERICI 


altri, ben rappresentano strategie espressive orientate verso la seconda polarita. Al 
contrario, il Promemoria di quanto ho veduto e speso nel viaggio fatto da Piacenza 
a Venezia (1795) dell’ Anonimo piacentino esemplifica un esito improntato ad opzioni 
del primo tipo.'® 

Infine, |’allargamento del pubblico e del mercato editoriale, favorito nella 
seconda meta dell’Ottocento dalla maggiore diffusione delle scuole in ambito 
nazionale e dalla progressiva estensione dell’ obbligo scolastico, comportd precise 
conseguenze anche per quanto concerne la dilatazione quantitativa e la differenzia- 
zione morfologica della letteratura di viaggio. Volumi come il Trattatello offerto 
alla gioventi di Alfeo Pozzi intitolato L ‘Italia sotto i var] suoi aspetti (1868), come 
Gite: appunti di viaggio per i ragazzi (1893) di Tommaso Catani o Sul Peraldo. 
Passeggiata educativa (1898) di Angelo Parodi, volumi cioé espressamente rivolti 
ail giovani, verso la fine del secolo tendono ad aumentare. Al contrario, i 
numerosissimi libri di testo di geografia, in quanto opere solo tangenti alla letteratura 
di viaggio propriamente detta, non entrano nei miei spogli. Sono infatti opere in 
cui la focalizzazione saggistica prevarica fino ad escluderlo il dato esperienziale, 
solo astrattamente presupposto.'” 


2. STORIE DI GENERI 

Come é facile immaginare, da un punto di vista quantitativo i 1300 titoli della 
bibliografia si susseguono in modo disomogeneo, e non solo perché fra Sette e 
Novecento cresce vertiginosamene il numero dei libri pubblicati e si moltiplicano 
i viaggiatori a vario titolo autorizzati a fornire testimonianza scritta della loro 
esperienza. Basti dire che la seconda meta dell’ Ottocento totalizza un numero di 
testi superiore a quelli stampati fra 1750 e 1850.” Del resto, la progressiva 


18. Da notizia di questo testo (e di diversi altri da me menzionati dei quali non citerd pit 
la fonte) La regione e l’Europa. Viaggi e viaggiatori emiliani e romagnoli nel Settecento, 
ac. di Elvio Guagnini (Bologna, il Mulino, 1986), in particolare il capitolo “Un viaggio 
a Venezia nel 1795 di Anonimo piacentino” (pp. 275-278, cui si aggiunga la scheda relativa 
all’itinerario, p. 347). 


19. Per la medesima ragione ho escluso dalla bibliografia le numerosissime monografie 
dedicate a regioni e citta che iniziano a moltiplicarsi verso la fine del secolo, almeno a partire 
dalla fortunata “Collana di Geografia d’Italia”, compilata da Gustavo Strafforello e pubblicata 
a Torino negli anni Novanta. Si tratta di volumi illustrati dedicati alle prvincie italiane 
(Provincia di Alessandria, 1890; Provincia di Cuneo, 1891; ecc.). 


20. Giovanni Ragone data “la grande fortuna dei libri di viaggi, dall’inizio degli anni ’70”; 
nel catalogo di Treves “nel 1891 ci sono ben 130 titoli di libri di viaggio, in prevalenza 
importati” (“La letteratura e il consumo: un profilo dei generi e dei modelli nell’editoria 
italiana (1845-1925)”, in Letteratura italiana, dir. Alberto Asor Rosa, II: Produzione e 
consumo, Torino, Einaudi, 1983, p. 704, nota 3 e p. 733, nota 25). 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 281 


differenziazione tipologica all’interno della letteratura di viaggio si pud leggere anche 
come un segno di tale straordinaria espansione, un’espansione storicamente 
apprezzabile proprio osservando I’alternarsi dei vari sottogeneri. Nel corso del tempo 
alcune formule espressive mantengono infatti intatta la loro antica capacita di 
comunicazione, altre siaffermano solo per brevi periodi (sono le formule di moda), 
altre ancora si impongono fino al punto di istituire nuove tradizioni specifiche. In 
ogni modo, sintomatico dell’affermarsi di una convenzione rappresentativa inedita 
é la comparsa sul frontespizio del corrispettivo termine-chiave.”' Fra le prime 
qualificazioni di genere comprese nel titolo, proprio nel 1750 nella bibliografia si 
leggono tre termini: “lettere”, “relazione” e “descrizione”.” 

Il termine “lettere” ha sia un valore propriamente epistolografico sia un 
significato scientifico analogo a quello di “dissertazione”, ma indica anche gruppi 
di lettere appartenenti a un carteggio privato, come nel caso di moltissimi manoscritti 
settecenteschi inediti e di alcune lettere di Francesco De Sanctis e di Carlo Vidua.” 
In ogni modo, registro la parola quasi sempre in titoli sintetici e dichiarativi 
fortemente stereotipati: per incontrare un’intestazione di copertina meno prevedibile 
bisogna guardare all’affabile sottotitolo Lettera ad un amico, apposto nel 1819 da 
Antonio Tadini a Dell’emissario del Sile detto volgarmente il Businello. Se il titolo 
scelto da Festari nel 1862 per l’omaggio allestito in occasione delle nozze Franco- 
Monza mostra un’ impostazione seriosa francamente datata (Viaggio nel Friuli ossia 
diario orittografico, diviso da alcune lettere scritte da Girolamo Festari), di tutt’altro 
genere sono le moderne epistole stampate nel 1871 da Alberto Libri: Da Firenze 
a Modane. Lettere al direttore dell’ “Economista d’Italia”. Del resto, a riprova di 
una relativa vivacita, proprio negli anni Settanta il termine “lettera” si accompagna, 
fino a sostituirla in qualche frontespizio, alla parola in voga “escursione”, né 


21. Se di norma un nuovo sottogenere si afferma imponendo nei titoli un’ “etichetta” linguistica 
inedita, non sempre vale l’inverso: alcune parole nuove sono semplicemente varianti 
sinonimiche di termini invalsi, varianti di moda di breve durata senza alcun corrispettivo 
sul piano della fisionomia dell’opera. 


22. Quicome inseguito, ogniconsiderazione va intesa in riferimento esclusivo (salvo diverse 
indicazioni) al corpus di titoli costituito dalla bibliografia dei viaggiatori italiani in Italia 
che sta alla base di questo articolo. Infatti, basta guardare il termine “lettera” senza questa 
delimitazione di campo per individuare da un lato la forma dominante della letteratura di 
viaggio italiana del Settecento (il che non si evince affatto dal mio spoglio), e dall’altro una 
parola che nella storia dei titoli odeporici risale a molto prima del 1750. 


23. Per le lettere di Vidua, cfr. Lettere del Conte Carlo Vidua, pubblicate da Cesare Balbo, 
tt. II] (Torino, Pomba, 1834); I: Lettere giovanili e prime gite in Italia, Francia e Gran 
Bretagna (1806-1810); per De Sanctis cfr. Benedetto Croce, “Il soggiorno di De Sanctis 
in Calabria”, in Scritti di storia letteraria e politica, XLIV: Aneddoti di varia letteratura, 
Seconda edizione con aggiunte interamente riveduta dall’autore, voll. IV (Bari, Laterza, 
1953), IV, 145-168. 


282 LUCA CLERICI 


mancano esempi di impiego di un sinonimo ipertradizionale, come nel sottotitolo 
delle Memorie d’un viaggio (1872) di L. Sina: Epistola in versi. Ma si tratta non 
per niente di un testo poetico. 

A differenza di “lettera”, che si riferisce in effetti ad un genere abbastanza 
dinamico e particolarmente longevo, l’impiego dell’appellativo “descrizione” 
denuncia immediatamente |’appartenenza dell’ opera ad unambito “ristretto” . Basti 
dire che di frequente |’aggettivo qualificativo marca in modo puntuale il testo, 
definito “nuova descrizione” con riferimento a specifici precedenti analoghi e 
concorrenti,” oppure identificato come descrizione a seconda dei casi “topografica”, 
“corografica”, “storica”, “geografica” e cosi via. Altre volte, l’accento é posto 
sull’attualita del contenuto (nel 1794 C. Capobianco da alle stampe la Descrizione 
di tutti luoghi che compongono le dodici provincie del regno di Napoli [...] secondo 
l’ultima narrazione fatta dalla regia camera nel 1737), oppure sulla completezza 
dell’indagine (Nuova Descrizione di Roma Antica, e moderna e di tutti li pit nobili 
monumenti Sagri, e Profani che sono in essa, e nelle sue vicinanze, 1793).”° Per 
imbattersi in una nuova e particolarmente significativa specificazione di “descrizione” 
bisogna attendere la fine del Settecento: nel 1792 Giuseppe Maria Galanti definisce 
la sua Descrizione delle Sicilie oltre che geografica, politica. Ma gia a cavaliere 
fra vecchio e nuovo secolo il termine sembra perdere importanza, relegato com’é 
a specificazione subordinata, per esempio nella Peregrinazione letteraria per una 
parte dell’Apulia con la descrizione delle sue sopravvanzanti antichita (stampata 
dopo il 1896) di Emmanuele Mola. Un sintomo, questo, del fatto che il termine 
in questione non é pid in grado di esprimere compiutamente |’identita dell’ opera. 
Lo conferma Maironi da Ponte, il quale nel 1819 avverte l’esigenza di raddoppiare 
la titolazione del suo libro per specificare l’imprecisa qualifica di genere posta 
all’inizio: Descrizione odeporica non basta piu, occorre l’integrazione ossia storico 
politica naturale della provincia bergamasca. Altrettanto emblematico é 
l’accompagnamento di “descrizione” con altri termini, siano di primaria importanza 
e dunque di forte capacita definitoria (come nella Descrizione di un viaggio a Pesto 


24. Se in/ paesi del lago di Como in nuova foggia descritti, aggiuntovi un cenno sulle strade 
di Stelvio e di Spluga (1828) Anna Perpenti sottolinea la novita del taglio del suo libro, sempre 
nel XIX secolo e per le medesime zone Luigi Boniforti ricorre al superlativo: Per laghi e 
mont. Nuovissima guida. Laghi Maggiore, di Como e Lugano, San Gottardo e gite diverse 
(la datazione é incerta). 


25. Il titolo completo é ben altrimenti dettagliato: Nuova Descrizione di Roma Antica, e 
moderna e di tutti li pit nobili monumenti Sagri, e Profani che sono in essa, e nelle sue 
vicinanze cioé Archi, Tempj, Anfiteatri, Cerchi, Obelischi, Basiliche, e Chiese, colla notizia 
delle Reliquie piu insigni, che si conservano in esse, Palazzi, Biblioteche, Musei, e Ville, 
Pitture, e Sculture co’ nomi de’ piu celebri Architetti, Pittori e Scultori fino al presente, 
ed infine la Cronologia di tutti i Romani Pontefici (1793, 4a ed.). 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 283 


di Mercurio Ferrara, del 1827), siano invece parole destinate a loro volta a diventare 
in futuro termini-chiave: é il caso di “gita” (nel 1821, al Viaggio al Lago di Como 
Davide Bertolotti aggiunge La descrizione di una gita da Milano a Cassano lungo 
il Naviglio). L’ormai perduta vocazione individuante del termine, non per niente 
posto nell’incipit del titolo, é invece recuperata in un libretto per nozze, citato 
(accadra spesso con i nuptialia) come indicazione di retrovia: la Descrizione dell’isola 
di Sardegna pubblicata per le faustissime nozze di Eleonora De’ Conti Solaro Della 
Margharita col Barone Giovanni Cantono De’ Marchesi di Ceva, datata 1847, € 
opera di Antonio Bresciani. 

In parallelo a tale “indebolimento” del significato tradizionale della parola 
“descrizione”, confermato dal suo progressivo declassamento nell’ambito del titolo 
in posizioni sempre pid lontane da quella di incipit, fra 1818 e 1842 si consolidano 
nuove accezioni del termine. Alla descrizione anonima della citta di Genova 
seguiranno ben presto quelle di Verona, Parma, Torino, Pisa, Catania, Milano, 
Firenze, ma anche di centri minori come Ceneda e Frascati.** Sono gli anni in 
cui il termine subisce un doppio aggiornamento semantico: essendo molte di queste 
opere confezionate espressamente per un pubblico di scienziati,”’ “descrizione” 


26. Le radici storiche di queste descrizioni urbane ottocentesche sono le stesse indicate da 
Eric J. Leeda proposito delle descrizioni incluse — secondo le prescrizioni della pubblicistica 
apodemica — nei testi di viaggio del Settecento: “La tecnica di descrizione e osservazione 
delle citta attingeva alle tradizioni pit vecchie della retorica antica e della commemorazione 
tardomedioevale di luoghi nelle eulogie civiche, che richiedeva l’elogio della citta e delle 
sue mura, della pianta, delle case, dei monumenti, delle industrie, della ricchezza, oltre 
che della fermezza e delle virti dei cittadini” (La mente del viaggiatore. Dall’“Odissea” 
al turismo globale, trad. di E. J. Mannucci, Bologna, Il Mulino, 1992, p. 220). 


27. Nel 1860 Davide Bertolotti scrisse su richiesta dell’amico Angelo Brofferio un’autobio- 
grafia (Ricordi della mia vita letteraria) in cui é rievocato il momento in cui gli venne 
commissionata la Descrizione di Torino. “Il secondo Congresso dei Dotti italiani doveva 
adunarsi in Torino nel settembre del 1840. Per onorare gl’illustri suoi ospiti il Municipio 
[...] volle presentarli di una Guida della citta, ed a me commise la cura di scriverla. Era 
erculea fatica perché mancavano affatto le notizie statistiche, e quel pensiero era nato si 
tardi, che appena rimanevano cinquanta giorni a raccogliere i materiali, ad ordinarli, a dar 
loro giuste proporzioni e buone forme di stile; in somma, ad allestire il manoscritto prima 
di darlo alle stampe. Aggiungasi che naturalmente l’opera dovea riuscir degna di si grave 
consesso, rappresentante la scienza italiana [...] L’esempio torinese diede origine alle 
‘Descrizioni’ di Firenze, di Milano, di Genova e delle altre citta in cui si tennero 
successivamente que’ Congressi, che dagliavvenimenti del 1848 furono inabissati nel vortice 
loro”. Il passo é citato da Andrea Viglongo, “Note e appunti sulla Descrizione di Torino 
di Davide Bertolotti”, in D. Bertolotti, Descrizione di Torino (Torino, Viglongo, 1968; rist. 
anastatica dell’edizione edita da Pomba a Torino nel 1840), pp. 5-6. Sitratta di un fascicoletto 
di formato ridotto legato all’interno del volume, con numerazione propria. I] primo Congresso 
internazionale per le scienze fisiche e naturali fu organizzato nel 1815 in Svizzera, e a questo 


284 LUCA CLERICI 


assume un valore specifico “alto”, quello di radiografia statistico-economica della 
realta urbana, particolarmente attenta ai servizi. Nello stesso tempo, con analoga 
valenza geograficamente circoscritta ad una singola citta il termine finisce presto 
con l’individuare anche testi “bassi”, di utilizzo pratico, diventando sinonimo di 
agile guida. Sempre con la stessa diffusione geograficamente capillare, alle 
descrizioni di capitali e di citta di provincia si alternano con buon ritmo descrizioni 
di laghi e di isole, grandi e piccole. Se la Descrizione della Sardegna di Francesco 
d’Austria Este risale al 1812, nel 1816 Domenico Romanelli propone alcuni 
interessanti documenti intitolati Descrizione dell’isola di Capri (1816), ma conta 
soprattutto registrare due analoghe imprese dedicate a localita meno scontate e di 
rilevanza storico-geografica assai minore, la descrizione di Ustica del 1842 e quella 
di Pantelleria del 1853. Scorrendo le descrizioni inventariate nella bibliografia fino 
a meta secolo ci si trova dunque di fronte ad una sorta di analitica mappatura del 
territorio italiano per piccole e medie realta locali. Ecco perché non sorprende affatto 
il successo del primo tentativo di sintesi nazionale, la fortunata Descrizione dell’Italia 
di Francesco Costantino Marmocchi edita la prima volta nel 1846,” esempio 
capostipite di una serie di operazioni editoriali analoghe. Vanno nella stessa direzione 
ma sono disponibili in un momento cronologicamente pit significativo L’/talia 
meridionale. L’antico reame delle Due Sicilie. Descrizione geografica, storica, 
amministrativa (1860) di G. De Luca e, soprattutto, la Descrizione geografica della 
penisola italiana nel 1861 di L. Schiaparelli, che con orgoglio include nel titolo 
la storica datazione. Diverse altre opere di analogo impianto nazionale si susseguiran- 
no negli anni Sessanta e Settanta,”” senza che percid vengano trascurate le indagini 
dedicate a piccole localita; con un’ottica questa volta positivista, si ricordino le 
Descrizioni, usi e costumi di Pozzomaggiore, villaggio dell’isola di Sardegna (1867) 
di Pietro Dettori. Ormai, alla specificita del tema si accompagna la precisazione 
del taglio dell’indagine: nel 1877 G.B. Favallini Bonifazio intitola il suo libro J 
Camuni ée la loro valle, ossia descrizione topografica-geologica-industriale, statistica 
e storica della Valcamonica. Fatta l’Italia, la mappatura del suo territorio é condotta 
da nuove e pili aggiornate prospettive. Si tratta di una tendenza che verso la fine 


ne seguirono diversi in varie parti d’Europa (Lipsia, York, Lione, Strasburgo, Stoccarda 
ecc.). 


28. In forma di aggettivo il termine si trova anche prima, ades. inL’/talia descritta e dipinta 
nei costumi de’ suoi abitanti (1841), piccolo volume di autori vari che passa in rassegna 
alcuni “tipi” caratteristici (“Il sartore”, “La modista”, “II pittore”, “Il giornalista”) e in 
Ignazio Cantu, La patria ossia I’Italia percorsa e descritta. Letture giovanili (1844). 

29. Se per esempio Alberto Fondi stampa un volume di modesta mole (Breve descrizione 
d’Italia ne’ monumenti, nelle arti e nelle bellezze naturali, 1867), nel 1871 Ariodante Manfredi 


propone Le cento citta d'Italia. Descrizione Storico - Politica - Geografica - Commerciale - 
Religiosa - Militare. 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 285 


dell’ Ottocento assume coloriture divulgative, per esempio in Un viaggio in Italia. 
Descrizioni aneddottiche di Felicita Morandi (giunto alla terza edizione nel 1890) 
e in Alpi e Appennini. Ascensioni, escursioni e descrizioni popolari illustrate (1885). 
Del titolo di questa pubblicazione, diretta insieme ad altri dal Cav. Giuseppe Corona, 
conta soprattutto sottolineare l’accenno alle illustrazioni, la componente destinata 
ad assumere sempre maggiore rilevanza in questo genere di libri. Una tendenza 
manifesta sin dal decennio precedente: Dall’Alpi all’Etna. Descrizione pittoresca 
dell’Italia é in libreria nel 1876. Con cio, siamo alle ultime descrizioni inventariate, 
tutte opere sintonizzate con il clima culturale fin de siécle; fatta salva l’eccezione 
di La Valle d’Aosta descrizione geografica, il termine “descrizione” non avra pit 
alcun corso nei titoli del Novecento. Opera di Alberto Pelloux, apparve nel 1901 
in una sede che fa fede del taglio settoriale del saggio, la “Rivista militare italiana”. 

Pur essendo ancora pit specifico di “descrizione”, il significato del termine 
“relazione” gia nel corso del Settecento mostra diverse sfumature, a partire da quella 
di documentazione di viaggi altrui o di viaggi propri. Sono della prima meta del 
secolo tanto la Relazione del viaggio del Re e Regina di Napoli a Venezia, Padova 
e Ferrara (1738) quanto il manoscritto della Relazione del viaggio di S.A.R. la 
Signora Duchessa di Savoia (1750); ad uso personale é invece la relazione 
manoscritta di Giovanni Battista Malaspina, dedicata al viaggio del 1786 in Francia 
e in Italia.” Se come sinonimo di guida il termine ha poche occorrenze (lo utilizza 
Giovacchino Faluschi nella Breve relazione delle cose notabili della citta di Siena 
ampliata e corretta del 1784), il suo valore pit appropriato é quello scientifico, 
nel senso in cui lo impiega Giovanni Targioni Tozzetti: Relazioni d’alcuni viaggi 
fatti in diverse parti della Toscana per osservare le produzioni naturali e gli antichi 
monumenti di essa (1751-1754). Nella prima meta dell’Ottocento sono infatti da 
registrare diverse occorrenze scientifico-burocratiche (edita nel 1852, Della regione 
vulcanica del monte Vulture e del tremuoto ivi avvenuto nel di 14 agosto 1851 é 
una Relazione fatta per incarico dell’Arciduca da L. Palmieri e A. Sacchi; nel 1871 
Antonio Salvagnoli stampa la Relazione della visita fatta nell’aprile 1871 all’Agro 
Romano da una parte dei componenti la commissione per gli studi sull’Agro 
Romano), mentre bisogna aspettare la seconda parte del secolo perché il termine 
assuma coloriture meno specifiche. Come quando ci si imbatte nell’accoppiata 
“relazione”-“gita”, un binomio attestato parecchie volte fino al 1898, anno in cui 
L. Melloni stende la Relazione della gita pedestre San Giorgio di Piano-Torino. 
Km. 335 in 7 giorni (1898) per conto della Societé ginnastica Fortitudo di San 
Giorgio di Piano. 

Accezione quasi eminentemente tecnica ha invece un termine tanto tipicamente 


30. Il testo é stato in parte pubblicato da Alessandro D’Ancona, “Francia e Italia nel 1786. 
Nella Relazione del viaggio di G. B. Malaspina”, in Viaggiatori e avventurieri (1912), 
Firenze, Sansoni, 1974, pp. 243-284. 


286 LUCA CLERICI 


settecentesco da venir addirittura rimpiazzato nel secolo successivo: nell’ Ottocento, 
invece di “saggio” si dira “studio”. Non per niente la parola compare soprattutto 
in testi di carattere scientifico, come testimoniano le molteplici specificazioni 
disciplinari cui é sottoposta: Saggio sull’economia campestre per la Calabria Ultra 
(Domenico Grimaldi, 1770); Saggio orittografico, ovvero osservazioni sopra le terre 
nautilitiche ed ammonnitiche della Toscana (Ambrogio Soldani, 1780); Saggio di 
fenomeni antropologici relativi altremuoto (Francesco Saverio Salfi, 1787); Saggio 
itinerario nazionale del paese de’ Peligni (Michele Torcia, 1793). Un trattamento 
identico a quello riservato soprattutto dopo I’ Unita al termine “studio”: sin dal titolo 
tanto L’Italia vivente. Studi sociali (1878) di Leone Carpi, quanto L’/talia e 
l’Oriente. Studi etnografici, storici e politici (1882) di Mariano Bianchi dichiarano 
la loro appartenenza culturale all’eta del positivismo; l’ambito é ora quello delle 
scienze umane. Se le deformazioni nominali sono ormai ricorrenti in diversi titoli, 
negli Studietti autunnali del 1872, dedicati da Codemo e Gesterbrand a Chioggia 
e Schio, il diminutivo affettivo é tanto pil interessante proprio perché applicato 
ad un termine tecnico. 

Nel complesso, rispetto al numero di opere, la differenza quantitativa fra questi 
primi generi di viaggio é piuttosto netta: le descrizioni sono un centinaio; le raccolte 
di lettere una cinquantina e una trentina le relazioni; di saggi-studi, sparsi in modo 
abbastanza regolare fra 1750 e 1900, ne ho contati circa 15. A guardare |’andamento 
quantitativo delle descrizioni, si assiste ad un netto incremento concentrato in due 
periodi, dal 1816 al 1850 e dall’ Unita fino agli anni Ottanta. Come se prima e dopo 
il 1861 al genere “descrizione” fosse demandato il compito di far prendere coscienza 
(e conoscenza) della multiforme realta nazionale agli italiani. Colpisce infatti 
constatare la scomparsa del termine dai titoli a partire dal 1890, una tendenza 
confermata in seguito: nel Novecento non ho inventariato neppure una descrizione. 
Almeno fino ad un certo momento, i testi di viaggio organizzati in serie di lettere 
hanno invece uno sviluppo piuttosto omogeneo, con una maggiore densita di titoli 
nella prima meta del XIX secolo e fra 1863 e 1882; per converso, la mia bibliografia 
non ne contempla alcuno né fra 1850 e 1862 né dopo il 1883, e solo due nel 
Novecento. Anche per il termine “relazione” vale un’analoga prevalenza di 
attestazioni sette-ottocentesche e, per quanto riguarda in particolare il XIX secolo, 
sono ancora una volta gli anni Settanta a dimostrarsi pit ricchi di occorrenze. 

A comparire nel mio regesto sin dal 1750 in un numero di occorrenze di gran 
lunga pit alto rispetto ai termini-chiave fin qui presentati, é perd un’altra parola. 
Il dato @ facilmente intuibile: il numero dei titoli che comprendono il termine 
“viaggio” in posizione dominante é in assoluto il pid alto di tutta la bibliografia. 
Un numero destinato a crescere non di poco aggiungendo le occorrenze in cui la 
parola assume funzione di specificazione, a partire dal capostipite Lettere di viaggi 
di Giovanni Andrea e Benedetto Giovanni Giovanelli, stampato fra 1745 e 1750. 
Se in effetti l’esibizione del termine “viaggio” nel titolo é il pit frequente 
contrassegno di appartenenza di un testo al genere, in un periodo storico circoscritto, 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 287 


e con attestazioni ben meno frequenti, il medesimo compito é@ svolto pure 
dall’aggettivo “odeporico”, la cui latitudine semantica é perd molto pid limitata. 
Attestato per la prima volta nel 1780 con le Lettere odeporiche’' di Angelo 
Gualandris, variante sinonimica del titolo dei Giovannelli appena menzionato, 
l’aggettivo ricorre in un insieme omogeneo di titolazioni d’indole dichiarativa. Si 
tratta di titoli tradizionalmente impostati in modo esplicativo rispetto ai contenuti, 
al punto da rendere degna di nota la terza ed ultima testimonianza ottocentesca della 
parola (imprevedibile in questo contesto, unicum come aggettivo sostantivato): 
Odeporico e passeggiate suburbane (1840). 

Con il passare degli anni i titoli in cui “viaggio” compare in posizione sintattica 
preminente tendono ad allungarsi, e il termine vanta una serie di specificazioni e 
puntualizzazioni sempre piti analitiche, a cominciare dalla semplice indicazione della 
meta: il Viaggio a Roma e a Napoli di Ubertino Landi é del 1750. La precisazione 
puo consistere nella frequentissima aggiunta dell’indicazione temporale del viaggio, 
a partire dall’anonimo Viaggio in Italia del 1753, ma ben presto l’individuazione 
della meta é formulata in modo tale da rendere evidente lo specifico interesse 
dell’autore: Ignazio Biscari di Paterno scrive il Viaggio per tutte le antichita della 
Sicilia Descritte (1781). Verso la fine del secolo il termine mostra un certo 
“cedimento”, una disponibilita a passare in secondo piano, e non per niente 
cominciano ad aumentare le guide semplicemente intitolate Viaggio, Il viaggiatore. 
Analogo segno di indebolimento é |’anticipazione della meta rispetto alla parola- 
chiave proposta da Carlo U. De Salis Marschlins in Nel regno di Napoli: viaggi 
attraverso varie province nel 1789, mentre con il Diario di Viaggio Odeporico nelle 
Valli dell’Arda e della Nure fatto dal dott. Plateretti Medico e Filosofo Borghiggiano, 
nell’anno 17861’ affollamento di informazioni e di specificazioni di genere declassa 
la parola-chiave riducendola a lessema fra tanti altri di pari dignita. In effetti, con 
i primi anni dell’ Ottocento si profila una maggiore liberta di combinazioni non solo 
fra gli indicatori di genere, ma anche fra tutti gli ingredienti canonici delle titolazioni 
ereditati dai secolo dei lumi. “Viaggio” si combina a “itinerario”, a “osservazioni 
naturali”, a “ragguaglio”, ma anche ai pid scontati “descrizione”, “diario” e 
“memorie”, e non di rado il termine assume semplicemente il suo significato 
referenziale. E’ ilmomento della comparsa di nuovi qualificatori: proprio nel 1801, 
in siffatto regime di mescolanza terminologica, ecco la prima testimonianza 
dell’aggettivo pittorico (il significato rimanda all’apparato iconografico della 
pubblicazione) in due titoli entrambi dedicati alla Toscana.** Questa liberta 


31. Le lettere dedicate a localita italiane sono le prime (ad Agordo, a Lovere, a Bergamo) 
e ultima (a “Turrino”). 


32. Miriferisco al Viaggio pittorico della Toscana (1801-1803) di Jacopo e Antonio Terreni 
e al Viaggio pittorico della Toscana che contiene le piante e prospetti delle citia e terre 
principali della medesima (1801-1803) di Giovanni Battista Pasquini. I] successo del Viaggio 


288 LUCA CLERICI 


“combinatoria” unita ad una nuova spregiudicatezza si esplica ad esempio nell’ inedita 
collocazione enfatica del possessivo. Rispetto alla sottolineatura dell’autore e 
dell’ originalita soggettiva del testo, ad essere svalutati sono sia l’indicazione del 
genere sia i riferimenti alle geografie e al “taglio” disciplinare del resoconto. E’ 
la scelta di Bartolomeo Gamba nelle Lettere scritte nel mio viaggio d’Italia (1802), 
una scelta analoga a quella di Antonio Benci, espressa pili discretamente con il 
ricorso alla terza persona: Note dei suoi viaggi (1823-1838).* In una direzione 
analoga vanno pure quei titoli in cui ad essere esibito é invece I’articolo determinati- 
vo: si pensi sia all’ originale tragitto di Teodoro Hell, Filippo Scolari e Giuseppe 
Polanzani, // viaggio in Italia sulle orme di Dante (1841), sia a Il viaggio in Sicilia 
(1855) di R. Giani. 

Oltre ad alcune inedite qualificazioni di notevole interesse (dal Viaggio 
pedagogico di Ermenegildo Pini del 1802 al Un viaggio di piacere stampato nel 
1871 da Achille Sanducci, fino al celebre Un viaggio elettorale desanctisiano del 
1876), si impongono all’attenzione alcuni aggettivi che rimandano a specifici ambiti 
culturali, a precise mode letterarie™: il Viaggio romantico (1824-1832) di Modesto 
Paroletti (da affiancare al pid eclettico // magnifico Piemonte, la romantica Savoia 
e la marittima Sardegna di Antonio Borgani, del 1857), La Maiella, viaggio 
sentimentale (1837) di P. De Virgilis, i Viaggi umoristici per l’Italia (1876) di 
Gustavo Strafforello, per non citare il Viaggio medico a Parigi, con alcuni particolari 
sopra Pisa del 1834, titolo con una sfumatura gia positivista. In parallelo comincia 
ad affermarsi la consuetudine degli alterati: la Descrizione di un piccolo viaggio 
a Frascati (1828) di Francesco Cassi precede di venticinque anni il Viaggetto 


dei due Terreni merita la menzione per esteso delle varie edizioni: I ed., Firenze, presso 
Giuseppe Tofani e Compagno, 1801-1803, tt. 3; II ed. rivista ed accresciuta da Francesco 
Fontani, Firenze, Marenghi, 1822, voll. 6; III ed., Firenze, Francesco Batelli, 1827-’34, 
voll. 6; l’opera é disponibile anche in edizione moderna come Viaggio pittorico della Toscana, 
ac. di Francesco Fontani (Firenze, Libreria Editrice Fiorentina, 1981). 


33. Il medesimo effetto di personalizzazione del viaggio é ottenuto in modo diverso, adottando 
e qualificando la parola “viaggiatore”, nella Lettera di un viaggiator parigino sul bello e 
sul brutto, sul buono e sul cattivo della citta di Milano (1819). L’opuscolo é anonimo, ma 
attribuibile a G. Gherardini. 


34. Molto spesso sono alcuni fortunati titoli stranieri ad esercitare un’influenza diretta sulle 
titolazioni nostrane: dallo sterniano Viaggio sentimentale (1768), alle settecentesche 
Fantasticherie del passeggiatore solitario di Rousseau ai Primi viaggi a Zig Zag (1843) del 
ginevrino Rudolph Toéppfer. Ma si potrebbero citare tanti altri casi. Invece, fra gli esempi 
di traduzione di titoli stranieri tramite locuzioni attestate nella tradizione odeporica italiana, 
ricordo il fortunato Three Men on the Bummel (1900) di Jerome Klapka Jerome. La traduzione 
Tre uomini a zonzo si inserisce nel solco tracciato fra gli altri da G. Niccolini con A zonzo 
per il circondario di Casale Monferrato (1877) e da Nicola Lazzaro con A zonzo per il golfo 
(1880). 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 289 


pittorico ed erudito da Venezia di Ambrogio Rigamonti. Fra le specificazioni pit 
caratteristiche di fine secolo vanno annoverati i richiami ai mezzi di trasporto, 
| rispetto ai quali la tradizionale indicazione della durata temporale del tragitto assume 
| un nuovo significato. Cosi, si moltiplicano i titoli come quello di Paolo Tedeschi 
Per un effe: viaggio in istrada ferrata da Venezia a Trieste (1870) e di G. Martinez, 
Tre ore di viaggio in ferrovia da Messina a Catania. Impressioni e ricordi (1878), 
€ per contrasto si affermano sia gli elogi del procedere a piedi, sia le geografie 
ristrette, urbane e locali. Nel primo caso basti citare In cammino, fantasie di viaggio 
(1880) di Carlo Borghi e A passo a passo. Viaggio straordinario alla cascata della 
Toce e al ghiacciaio orientale del Monterosa (1883), due titoli fra i tanti di 
impostazione analoga. Quale indicazione di un breve tragitto (all’interno di Torino), 
- ricordo invece il Viaggio sul tramway da piazza Castello a Moncalieri (1876) di 
_ Luigi Rocca, titolo che contiene pure il riferimento ad un mezzo. 

| Nel complesso, il XIX secolo vede salire alla ribalta definizioni di genere 
' piuttosto duttili, che tendono a “mischiare” una terminologia fin qui piuttosto rigida. 
_ Per esempio, il Giornale del viaggio mineralogico di Gianbattista Brocchi é datato 
1811-1812; nel 1843 Antonio Bresciani pubblica alcune Lettere descrittive aggiuntovi 
quella del Viaggio nella Savoia, e tre anni dopo Pietro Calcara stampa il suo 
Rapporto del viaggio scientifico. Limitandosi a tre soli titoli, ecco gli esiti della 
combinatoria fra “giornale”, “viaggio”, “lettere”, “rapporto” e “descrizione”. E’ 
la via che culminera con |’affermazione dei titoli di fantasia — di gran lunga i pit 
numerosi nel Novecento —, anticipati da quello di Giovanni Spano, Mnemosine 
sarda Ossia ricordi e memorie di varii monumenti antichi, con altre rarita dell’Isola 
_ di Sardegna (1864), cui si possono affiancare 1 successivi Lagune, monti e caverne: 
_ ricordi de’ miei viaggi (1879) di Aurelia Cimino Follero de Luna e, almeno, Jn 
_ cerca di cavallette: gita nelle Alpi Apuane, raccontata ai miei scolari (1884) di 
Tommaso Catani. 

Un discorso analogo a quello svolto per i “viaggi” si pud fare a proposito della 
guidistica, genere altrettanto longevo che annovera una straordinaria quantita di 
titoli, non sempre rivelatori dell’effettiva indole dei testi, peraltro spesso anonimi. 
Titoli in cui il termine-chiave “guida” si alterna ad una lunga serie di sinonimi (“Lo 
| straniero”, “Notizie”, “Itinerario”, “Istruzione per chi viaggia”, “Il viaggiatore 
moderno” ecc.), una costellazione lessicale che varia con il variare delle epoche. 
Proprio allo scopo di introdurre un elemento disambiguante in tale varieta, assai 
_ di frequente nel titolo la parola “guida” compare in aggiunta ad un altra parola meno 
direttamente denotativa. Accade in titoli sintetici, sia in incipit (Giovanni Battista 
Berti, Guida per Vicenza ossia memorie storico critiche, 1822), sia in seconda battuta 
(Giuseppe Bennassuti, Viaggio storico e pittorico, ossia guida della Toscana, 1832). 
Si tratta di una precisazione ottenuta anche con la forma analitica della doppia 
titolazione (Pellegrinazioni e passeggiate autunnali nell’anno 1861 di G. F. Baruffi 
— Guida nella Valle di Susa e Bardonnéche al Traforo delle Alpi, 1862), oppure 
grazie alla dichiarazione diretta del genere scelto dall’autore: il Viaggio intorno 


290 LUCA CLERICI 


al Garda disposto in forma di guida (1878) @ opera di Filippo Micheletti. 

Grazie alla spiccata vocazione pratica di questo genere di libri, pid di quelli — 
di qualunque altro testo di viaggio i loro titoli sono emblematici del modificarsi — 
delle esigenze del lettore. Alla sempre pid pedissequa dichiarazione dei contenuti, 
presto si accompagna I|’indicazione dei tempi di percorrenza, non a caso posti spesso — 
in apertura: se Pietro Fiocchi intitola il suo baedeker Otto giorni a Milano, ossia 
guida pel forestiere e alle cose piu rimarchevoli della citta e suoi contorni divisa 
in otto passeggiate (1838), cinque anni prima circolava gia Una giornata di 
divertimento da Napoli a Pozzuoli. A conferma della maggiore indipendenza delle 
titolazioni dal contenuto, riscontrabile alle soglie del Novecento persino nelle guide, 
valga Il Cicerone milanese del 1881, il cui sottotitolo fa propria una categoria | 
letteraria di moda, Guida umoristica di Milano. Giusto |’anno dopo, |’“umorista” — 
Giovanni Faldella pubblica il parodico Paese di Montecitorio, una Guida alpina 
(1882). Né va sottovalutata la spinta esercitata dai nuovi mezzi di trasporto per 
imporsi sui frontespizi, come testimonia la Guida ciclistica d’Italia di Giacinto Tosi, 
del 1896, titolo indubbiamente originale per |’epoca. 

Tanto le guide, quanto i libri recanti in copertina il termine viaggio, lo si é 

visto, tendono ad assimilare nel titolo parole in voga, spesso destinate ad emanciparsi 
e ad imporsi in un certo periodo. Parole la cui storia é quasi sempre piuttosto breve, 
e tendenzialmente circoscritta in ambito ottocentesco. Cosi é per il termine 
“peregrinazione” (del 1841 é la variante Pellegrinazioni), una parola attestata una 
sola volta nel Settecento (Emmanuele Mola, Peregrinazione letteraria per una parte 
dell’Apulia con la descrizione delle sue sopravvanzanti antichita, 1796). Proprio 
in ragione del suo sapore ricercato e un po’ demodé, la si incontra invece abbastanza 
di frequente nel XIX secolo, almeno a partire dal ripetuto uso che ne fece Davide 
Bertolotti sin dal 1822 (Peregrinazioni al lago d’Orta). Anche in questa occasione 
si assiste alla progressiva dilatazione semantica del termine, per via della 
sottolineatura “esotica” del soggetto del viaggio (Valentino Carrera, Peregrinazioni 
d’uno zingaro per laghi ed alpi, 1861), in ragione dell’uso inopinatamente 
appropriato del termine (Iginio Martorelli, Una peregrinazione ai santuarii della 
Beatissima, 1873), grazie ad una specificazione scientifica, quanto mai rivelatrice 
dell’elasticita acquisita dalla parola (A. Tellini, Peregrinazioni speleologiche nel 
Frittli, 1899). 

Analoga storia in prevalenza ottocentesca ha la parola “illustrazione”, stretta 
parente degli aggettivi “pittorico” (a lungo unico qualificatore di “viaggio”, in un 
secondo tempo anteposto invece ai vari storico, antiquario, geografico, statistico, 
ecc.) e “pittoresco” (attestato pid tardi e in posizione meno vincolata rispetto al 
termine-chiave, come nelle Passeggiate autunnali nei siti pit pittoreschi e piit 
dilettevoli d’Italia di Agostino Verona, del 1870). Molto usato dai viaggiatori 
dell’Ottocento, il termine “illustrazione” compare di rado nel Settecento, epoca 
in cui deve concorrere con il pid frequente “veduta”. Fra 1870 e 1885 l’espressione 
furoreggia, dopo di che declina nettamente e, dal 1924, scompare. Nel Settecento 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 291 


-e nei primi decenni dell’Ottocento “illustrazione” ricorre esclusivamente nella forma 
aggettivale “illustrato”, sempre riferita a localita (La Garfagnana illustrata di 
Pellegrino Paolucci é del 1720); solo in un secondo tempo assume il senso moderno 
‘di designazione del tipo di libro (Una gita a Firenze. Guida descritta e illustrata 
della citta e dei suoi contorni, alla terza edizione nel 1870). La stretta parentela 
dell’illustrazione con il genere del “souvenir”, piuttosto diffuso nella prima meta 
‘del secolo, ben si intende ogni volta che la parola, conquistata la dignita di 
| sostantivo, compare accanto ad alcuni termini rivelatori. Penso al termine “album” 
(con le sue J/lustrazioni e ricordi del Lago Maggiore. Album descrittivo, pittorico 
é poetico-musicale, nel 1871 Luigi Boniforti offre al lettore pure un album musicale), 
.a“disegno” (Lombardia pittoresca e disegni [...] con le relative illustrazioni, 1836- 
1838) 0 a “fotografia” (nel 1869 1’Album del viaggiatore, nuova illustrazione di 
Brindisi di Raffaele Marzolla é corredato da 23 fotografie). Gliintenti promozionali 
-edivulgativi ancora impliciti nei titoli di tutti questi volumi vengono infine espressi 
.a chiare lettere sulla copertina di Alpi e Appennini. Ascensioni, escursioni e 
_descrizioni popolari illustrate (1885). 
Fra gli svariati nuovi termini affermatisi all’interno dei titoli dei testi di viaggio 
ottocenteschi, alcuni hanno indubbiamente maggiore rilevanza: seguendo 1’ordine 
‘della loro comparsa, mi soffermerei rapidamente su quattro dei pit caratteristici. 
Penso a “gita”, a “passeggiata” (con la sua variante specialistica “escursione”) e 
\a “bozzetto” e “impressione”, due vocaboli di evidente derivazione pittorico- 
iletteraria. “Gita” mostra sin dall’esordio, nel 1821, una tendenza a risalire nella 
'successione sintagmatica del titolo verso la prima posizione, fino a collocarsi in 
\incipit — per rimanerci piuttosto a lungo — nel 1836, con la Gita a Catania e 
|dintorni. Ricordi di viaggio. Le accezioni dominanti sono due. Quella scientifica 
-@ ancora implicita nella Narrazione d’una gita al Vesuvio fatta nel di 26 gennajo 
' 1832 di Leopoldo Pilla, ma nel manoscritto datato 1847 di Alberto Parolini, Diario 
\autografo di A. P. di una gita geologica nelle Alpi venete, \’indole del testo é 
| dichiarata. La seconda accezione di “gita” corrisponde al significato di guida. E’ 
‘il caso delle diverse gite autunnali di Evaldo, libri di particolare successo a giudicare 
| dalla diffusione dell’aggettivo “autunnale”, attestato in almeno una decina di titoli 
| Ottocenteschi.** In corrispondenza alla progressiva perdita di specificita del suo 
| Significato, compaiono come al solito titoli in cui il termine viene affiancato da altri 
i vocaboli: cosi é nella Gita alle paludi pontine: relazione (1872) di Felice Giordano. 
‘ Altrove, “gita” é parola raddoppiata con “memorie”, “reminiscenze” ecc. Chiaro 


135. A parte l’Odeporico e passeggiate suburbane, di due amici, negli autunni 1836, ’38 
'é ’39 (1840), in cui il riferimento all’epoca é referenziale, “autunnale” compare prima che 
) nei libri di Evaldo solo in G. F. Baruffi, Pellegrinazioni autunnali ed opuscoli (1841). Da 
|notare che in tutta la bibliografia non v’é traccia di nessuno degli aggettivi relativi alle altre 
| Stagioni dell’anno. 


292 LUCA CLERICI 


segnale dell’indebolimento del termine é sia la sua estensione ad un ambito 
burocratico-amministrativo (accade nel 1876 con la Relazione sopra una gita in 
valle d’Arno fatta di commissione del sig. Vincenzo Guerri di Firenze di L. Parodi 
e A. Fabbri), sia la sua occorrenza in forma alterata (G. B. De Capitani, Una 
giterella autunnale da Milano a Roma descritta a volo d’uccello, 1875), sia infine 
il valore che a volte assume di sinonimo di escursione (C. Macchia, Una gita alla 
Majelletta nel 1875, 1877). Dopo l’exploit nel ventennio ’66-’86, in cui si contano 
almeno una cinquantina di occorrenze, il declino della fortuna di “gita” é 
preannunciato dall’apparizione di curiose aggettivazioni di supporto ormai necessarie 
per conferire visibilita al termine: i Bozzetti alpini — Mare e Paesi — Gite 
capricciose di Giuseppe Revere sono del 1877. Analogo significato viene ad avere 
l’uso della parola in situazioni particolari. Nel 1884 la tradizionale sfumatura 
“leggera” e disimpegnata del termine non impedisce ad Angiolo G. Del Grande 
di utilizzarlo in un contesto fino a qualche tempo prima quanto meno | 
inappropriato:*° Appunti e ricordi sulla gitaall’ossario di S. Martino il di 24 giugno 
1881 fatta dai veterani, reduci e cittadini di Pisa.*’ E, puntuale, la parola viene 
adottata nei circuiti bassi del sistema letterario, facendo il suo ingresso nella 
produzione divulgativa e di intrattenimento: Gite. Appunti di viaggio per i ragazzi 
di Tommaso Catani é in libreria nel 1893. 

Tanto “passeggiata” quanto “escursione” contano alcuni precedenti settecente- 
schi** ma, seppur per via di un numero di presenze abbastanza modesto, sono parole 
che caratterizzano soprattutto i titoli dell’Ottocento. Per il primo termine mi limito | 
a richiamare un testo curioso, l’unico a me noto in forma di dialogo: le Passeggiate 
a Carciano. Dialogo (1880) sono opera di Filippo Cicconetti. Di “escursione” va 
invece registrato l’alternarsi dell’accezione propriamente alpinistica ad altre 
sfumature, sempre espresse da un qualificatore che rinvia a discipline particolari. 
Ci si pud allora imbattere sia in un aggettivo specifico (escursione “botanica”, 


36. Pid precisamente, qui come in molti altri casi ad essere recuperata é un’accezione antica 
della parola: il Grande Dizionario della Lingua Italiana di Salvatore Battaglia (Torino, Utet, 
1961-1994) registra infatti il significato cinquecentesco di visita di devozione. 


37. Ma certi itinerari macabri sembrano in voga gia da parecchi anni, almeno a giudicare ‘ 
da Il Camposanto de’ torinesi. Passeggiata ne’ dintorni di Torino di G. Baruffi, giunto alla 
seconda edizione nel 1863, e dal Viaggio sentimentale al camposanio colerico di Napoli 
(1837) di Lorenzo Borsini. 


38. Dalla Giornata terza de’ passeggi storico topografico critici nella citta, indi nella Diocesi 
di Milano di Nicolo Sormani (Milano, P. F. Malatesta, s.d. [1752]) si passa alla Passeggiata 
per la Liguria occidentale fatta nell’anno 1827 di Giacomo Navone (1832); dal Viaggio a 
Chioggia. Escursione a Montegibo del 1784 di Lazzaro Spallanzani il salto cronologico é 
fino al 1832, con le Notizie d’una escursione fatta nel 1832 nelle tre valli del Piemonte abitate 
dai Valdesi di Azanam. 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 293 


-“paletnologica”), sia in formule allusive, come nell’Escursione sotterra di P. Lioy 
| del 1873, incui l’interesse geo-idrologico dell’ opera é solo suggerito. Decisamente 
-moderni sono infine i termini “impressioni” e “bozzetto”, l’uno databile 1844 
(Cesare Malpica, Un mese negli Abruzzi. Impressioni), altro 1857 (Giuseppe 
Revere, Bozzetti alpini editi ed inediti). Quanto a “impressioni”, capita molto spesso 
‘di trovarlo accompagnato da un sostantivo di supporto (impressioni e “appunti”, 
-e “ricordi”, e “schizzi”), giocato dagli autori pit abili con una certa efficacia. A 
-costruire un titolo piuttosto icastico é ad esempio Ruggero Bonghi, grazie alla 
-contrapposizione simmetrica della qualita positiva delle sensazioni al tenore negativo 
| dei ragionamenti. Ma, con Jn viaggio da Pontresina a Londra: impressioni dolci, 
osservazioni amare (1888), siamo oltre il passo del Bernina. Se l’articolo di Cletto 
Arrighi Tremila chilometri in dieci giorni (impressioni e note)” rivela solo alla 
lettura la sua indole di reportage giornalistico, alla fine del secolo l’informazione 
-@ spesso disponibile sin dal titolo, magari tramite |’indicazione della qualifica 
\professionale dell’autore. In Da Costantinopoli a Madrid (impressioni di un 
corrispondente) (1899) Adolfo Rossi dedica parecchie pagine alla Sardegna, una 
delle principali tappe del suo viaggio. Circa “bozzetto”, vale forse la pena di citare 
/soltanto Val di Chiana. Bozzetti di un artista di dozzina (1878) di A. Griffoli, per 
via dell’esplicito riferimento alla pittura.“ Senza naturalmente dimenticare quante 
inovelle nella seconda meta dell’ Ottocento recano sul frontespizio questa indicazione, 
‘compreso il caso forse pit celebre, il Bozzetto siciliano di Verga Nedda. D’altronde, 
‘se 1 bozzetti narrativi contraddistinguono tanta produzione novellistica non solo 
verista, nell’ambito della letteratura di viaggio non mancano né formule narrative 
‘(in copertina, Da Genova a Cagliari di F. R., del 1874, é detto Racconto), né 
espliciti richiami a parole d’ordine veriste (Valle Bavona. Impressioni e schizzi dal 
‘vero, 1885), o spiritualiste: nel 1895 Antonio Emiliani pubblica Visioni e ricordi. 
| Ancora una volta, i titoli di fine secolo danno voce ad uno sperimentalismo 
|inteso a rinnovare la letteratura di viaggio. Quanto recita il sottotitolo del Bel paese 
-— Conversazione sulle bellezze naturali. La geologia e la geografia fisica d ’Italia*' 


| 


39. Cletto Arrighi, “Tremila chilometri in dieci giorni (impressioni e note)”, in Cronaca 
igrigia, VIII (domenica 4 novembre 1868), pp. 11-19, ora, come “Odissea scapigliata”, in 
,Leggere, VII (luglio-agosto 1994), pp. 12-15, con una mia nota (“Cletto Arrighie gli altri”, 
(pp. 16-17). 

‘40. Giusto di un anno precede la prima attestazione di un’altra parola mutuata dalle arti visive: 
ill Trentino. Schizzo geografico & del 1877. 


41. Circa la data della prima edizione del Bel Paese sussiste qualche dubbio. Infatti, se nel 
‘complesso la critica accredita il 1876, non mancano attestazioni precedenti: nel catalogo 
\regionale della Biblioteca Comunale di Milano risulta un’edizione 1873 (Torino, S.E.T.); 
‘Claudio Visentin indica invece 1875 (Nel paese delle selve e delle idee. I viaggiatori italiani 
'in Germania 1866-1914, Milano, Jaka Book, 1995, p. 189). Neppure la seconda edizione 


294 LUCA CLERICI 


— corrisponde pienamente all’azzeccata impostazione dialogica del capolavoro di 
Antonio Stoppani. Inaltre occasioni, tale effettiva corrispondenza fra dichiarazioni 
di copertina ed effettivo carattere del libro é invece meno stringente, ma non percid 
perdono interesse titoli del tipo Una gita in Sardegna nel 1872. Reminiscenze 
storiche, pittoresche, economiche, politiche, geografiche, statistiche, filosofiche, 
romantiche del Barone Pif-Paf-Poff, moscovita (1872). Alludendo tramite il nome 
dell’eroe al romanzo parodico di Francesco Gritti, La mia storia, ovvero memorie 
del sig. Tommasino, scritte da lui medesimo — opera narcotica del Dott. Pif-Puf 
(1767-1768), questa Gita in Sardegna vuole prendere in giro |’ormai superata 
impostazione dichiarativa ed esplicativa di tanti vecchi titoli. In modo analogo, le 
Notti sicole, amene, Storiche e filosofiche alle vette dell’Etna (1847) di Diego Corbo 
ricalcano la titolazione delle Notti romane al sepolcro degli Scipioni (1792-1804) 
di Alessandro Verri, né i rimandi alla tradizione romanzesca si fermano qui. Corbo 
infatti “Finge un viaggio all’Etna, come quello di Anacarsi, e descrive le citta, le 
terre, le lettere dell’antica Sicilia” e, con cid, non solo rinvia a Barthélemy, ma 
pure al viaggio di Platone e Cleobolo narrato da Vincenzo Cuoco. 


3. LA CONQUISTA DELL’ INCIPIT 

Giunti a questo punto, é forse opportuno tentare una sintesi. Durante la seconda 
meta del Settecento le titolazioni dei libri di viaggio degli italiani in Italia mostrano 
nel complesso un vocabolario tutto sommato ristretto e fortemente codificato, con 
ben rare concessioni all’attualita. Obiettivo principale degli autori é perseguire la 
chiarezza esplicativa, ottenuta grazie ad un andamento dichiarativo tendenzialmente 
esauriente rispetto al tema, al taglio, e soprattutto al genere espressivo adottato per 
dar voce all’esperienza del viaggio. Ed é proprio per la sua indole di produzione 
letteraria “aperta”, storicamente e tipologicamente variabile, che in questi frontespizi 
ricorre tanto spesso |’ indicazione esplicita del genere: una convenzione tacitamente 
stipulata con i destinatari per evitare loro macroscopici equivoci. Si potrebbe dunque 
parlare di un comune obiettivo di trasparenza, perseguito dagli autori in un regime 
di “economia” linguistica, un regime dai risvolti interessanti. Infatti, @ proprio questa 
tendenziale omogeneita di impostazione e fedelta ai modelli del passato che finisce 
per “consumare” il patrimonio lessicale delle titolazioni tramandate, e a rendere 
obsolete, quasi per usura, le strutture espositive tradizionali. Deriva anzitutto da 


é indubitabile: se nei cataloghi antiquari quella edita a Milano da Agnelli nel 1878 é definita 
tale, la gia citata Bibliografia italiana. Giornale dell’Associazione Tipografico-libraria Italiana 
compilata sui documenti comunicati dal Ministero dell’Istruzione Pubblica indica come seconda 
l’edizione Agnelli dell’anno precedente. 


42. Alessio Narbone, Bibliografia sicula sistematica o apparato metodico alla storia letteraria 
della Sicilia, TV voll. (Palermo, Stab. tipografico librario dei fratelli Pedone Lauriel, 1850- 
1855), I, p. 268. 








Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 295 


| qui il notevole allargamento del vocabolario attestato nei titoli dell’Ottocento, un 
; secolo aperto a nuovi lessemi, a parole-chiave di breve durata che risentono di mode 
| passeggere, un secolo in cui il lessico dei titoli dei libri di viaggio é nel complesso 
improntata ad una maggiore affabilita colloquiale. Comune tanto al secolo dei lumi 
| quanto all’Ottocento é invece la periodica alternanza fra titoli analitici descrittivi 
-e titoli sintetici allusivi, senza perd arrivare mai a opzioni del tutto indipendenti 
| dalla materia. Sono queste scelte caratteristiche del Novecento, epoca in cui la liberta 
| dell’autore nell’ambito della titolazione diventa pressoché assoluta. 

| I vincoli piuttosto precisi che disciplinano i titoli durante i due secoli precedenti 
; tendono dunque a perdere progressivamente la loro forza prescrittiva. Nel Settecento 
, Si assiste all’imporsi dell’indicazione di genere in apertura di titolo, al prevalere 
! della sottolineatura del “cosa” — la meta é quasi sempre contemplata — rispetto 
| al “come” del viaggio, declinato solo quando si tratti di una prospettiva disciplinare 
j particolare. Allora, la sua enunciazione precede di norma la dichiarazione dello 
| specifico oggetto di studio, come mostra Ermenegildo Pini nelle Osservazioni 
| mineralogiche sulla montagna di San Gottardo (1781). Le possibilita di variazione 
| dei titoli sono per lo pit relegate all’ambito della specificazione del termine posto 
in apertura, ma anche qui i margini di liberta sono piuttosto ridotti: le soluzioni 
pid diffuse si riducono a un paio. L’elementare concorrenza dell’indicazione 
\ temporale con quella spaziale (Francesco Longano, Viaggio per lo Contado di Molise 
nell’ottobre dell’anno 1786, 1788) si alterna alla semplice moltiplicazione dei 
) qualificatori aggettivali; il Ragionamento topografico istorico fisico iatro sul Piano 

| delle Cinque Miglia (1789) di V. G. Liberatore é a questo riguardo esemplare. 
| Il passaggio dalla canonica uniformita della titolazione, tipica del Settecento, 
| alla grande liberta nel battezzare i propri libri di cui godono i viaggiatori del XX 
; secolo, si coglie molto bene osservando le dinamiche sintagmatiche delle componenti 
, del titolo, dinamiche particolarmente vivaci proprio durante l’Ottocento. Alludo 
( all’anticipazione dell’itinerario, per un lungo periodo relegato in posizione subalterna, 
! oppure alla collocazione in incipit della meta — soprattutto a scapito dell’indicazione 
| di genere —, alla sempre maggiore rilevanza accordata alla durata temporale del 
) viaggio e persino al mezzo di trasporto impiegato, mai menzionato nel corso del 
' Settecento. 
In effetti, 1’evoluzione dei titoli in questo secolo e mezzo si potrebbe leggere 

; come la storia degli spostamenti di parola verso la prima posizione: di solito una 
{ parola-chiave si affaccia nel corpo del titolo, in posizione subalterna, quindi tende 
) ascivolare in apertura. Raggiunta questa collocazione, il termine inizia a ricorrere 
i inaltri contesti anche molto diversi fra loro: diventa di moda, una parola-ombrello 
‘ destinata a subire frequenti specificazioni sia aggettivali sia sostantivali tali da 
| renderla appropriata ad ambiti semantico-disciplinari estranei alla sua accezione 
| Originaria. L’occorrenza di tali correttivi, mentre segna la fase di massima diffusione 
\ della parola, @ sintomatica di un suo indebolimento, ormai palese non appena sia 
/ attestata l’occorrenza ravvicinata di un secondo termine esplicativo con funzione 





296 LUCA CLERICI 


sinonimica, non di rado introdotto da “ossia”, “ovvero”. Capita allora che la parola- 
chiave trovi sostegno in un termine corrente magari gia abusato, oppure in un 
lessema destinato ad affermarsi in seguito, nel qual caso la funzione di glossa 
esplicativa semantica spettera ben presto alla parola un tempo principale. In entrambi 
i casi, si tratta di segnali di indebolimento quasi sempre irreversibile. Spia 
inequivocabile del declino é il ridimensionamento del termine-chiave ad aggettivo, 
con la conseguente perdita di centralita nella sintassi del titolo e la riduzione dei 
contesti di occorrenza, meno numerosi e meno disomogenei. 

Fra le innovazioni destinate ad imporsi pid a lungo all’interno di siffatte 
dinamiche generali, va certamente annoverata la consuetudine di includere nel titolo 
il riferimento ad un mezzo di trasporto. La prima attestazione é del 1828: anche 
se solo in posizione di ultimo sintagma, ad essere menzionato é un battello; autore 
di Un viaggio sul lago Maggiore ovvero la descrizione della sponda del Verbano 
per comodita dei viaggiatori sul battello a vapore & Francesco Medoni. Per trovare 
il medesimo rimando in una posizione meno defilata non bisogna pero aspettare 
molto: Ferdinando Spinelli di Scalea pubblica nel 1842 Corsa a Messina sul vapore 
il “Nettuno” nel 1838. Ben altra rilevanza quantitativa, é facile prevederlo, mostrano 
invece le parole afferenti all’area semantica del trasporto ferroviario.** Ad esordire 
é l’espressione “strada ferrata”, nel 1853, attestata abbondantemente almeno fino 
al 1888, data di un titolo interessante. In Da Roma a Solmona. Guida storico-artistica 
delle Regioni traversate dalla strada ferrata (1888)“ Luigi Degli Abati identifica 
la geografia descritta proprio grazie alla presenza qualificante della linea ferroviaria. 
“Ferrovia” risale al 1874, e curiosamente la parola compare la prima volta in un 
resoconto in versi, il Viaggio in ferrovia. Roma, Napoli, Firenze. Contemplazione 
vestita in terzine da un suo guardiano [sic] (1874) di Baldassarre Marini, mentre 
il vocabolo “treno” si legge nelle Impressioni a treno diretto di Ettore Serani (Da 
Firenze a Firenze per la via di Parigi, Bruxelles, Berlino, Vienna, 1882). Si passa 
cosi dalla messa a fuoco delle strutture della strada ferrata radicate nel territorio 
al mezzo di trasporto in movimento, ma perché il reporter salga a bordo e promuova 
una diversa percezione del paesaggio bisogna aspettare parecchi anni. Naturalmente, 


43. Vale la pena di osservare uno slittamento semantico significativo: ben presto il termine 
“vapore” non indichera pit! (0 almeno non prevalentemente) il battello, ma la locomotiva 
(accade cosi per esempio nel gia menzionato Romanzo in vapore da Firenze a Livorno di 
Carlo Collodi, del 1856). 


44. Fra i titoli cronologicamente precedenti finora non citati in questo articolo segnalo il 
Viaggio da Torino a Genova sulla strada ferrata (1853), Una gita da Firenze al Transimeno 
per la strada ferrata aretina (1866) e, di Giovacchino Losi, la serie Viaggio in strada ferrata 
da Siena ad Empoli (1872), Viaggio in strada ferrata da Siena ad Orvieto (1873) e Viaggio 
in Strada ferrata da Roma a Livorno per Civitavecchia (1874), giunto alla seconda edizione 
nel 1880. 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 297 


a favorire la consuetudine di citare i mezzi di trasporto nel titolo di un libro di 
viaggio é la loro rapida evoluzione: ogni epoca ha le sue macchine e¢ i suoi viaggi 
su veicoli curiosi. Basti menzionare la Guida ciclistica d’Italia (1896) di Giacinto 
Tosi,*° preceduta e seguita da titoli imperniati sulla bizzarria del mezzo: nel 1882 
Ernesto Corti stampa Jn sandolino da Pavia a Venezia, e in Da Perarolo a Belluno 
con uno strano mezzo di locomozione N. Cozzi racconta una gita in zattera sul Piave. 
In altri casi l’attenzione é@ puntata sulla rapidita di spostamento. Nel sottotitolo del 
libro di F. Evola La ferrovia Palermo-Trapani (1880) compare un’espressione 
figurata destinata ad avere fortuna: Una corsa a volo d’uccello. D’altronde, gia 
tre quarti di secolo prima erano stati pubblicati sia il Viaggio aereo da Bologna 
a Pola fatto nel 1803 dal conte Zanbeccari, dott. Grossetti e Pasquale Andreoli 
di Gaetano Borghi (1887), sia il Ragguaglio del viaggio aereo eseguito partendo 
da Bologna il giorno 7 settembre 1825 dal signor Francesco Orlandi (s. d.) di Pietro 
Prandi. Ma, allora, il riferimento era referenziale, |’allusione propriamente 
aeronautica: si trattava infatti in entrambi i casi di missioni aerostatiche.*° 


4. UN PO’ DI GEOGRAFIA E QUALCHE PROTAGONISTA 

La rassegna dei titoli citati fin qui si presta naturalmente anche a considerazioni 
di altro ordine. Indipendentemente dal genere di testo — relazione, lettera, guida, 
descrizione ecc. —, l’attenzione degli autori é quasi sempre orientata a valorizzare 
singole citta, a incominciare dalle capitali incluse nel Grand Tour, oppure centri 
minori e non di rado localita periferiche. Cid che manca é uno sguardo sulla realta 
territoriale italiana nel suo complesso. Abbastanza a lungo, la visione completa 
dell’Italia & affidata a opere cartografiche, a dizionari corografici, a repertori 
specialistici. A riprova, i pochissimi itinerari che tagliano la penisola per intero 
o che ne attraversano ampie porzioni sono tutti geograficamente molto selettivi, 
e i percorsi tendono ad essere sempre gli stessi. Trionfano dunque sia le visite a 
siti specifici e l’individuazione di mete particolari (nel 1802 Carlo Fea stampa il 
Viaggio ad Ostia ed alla villa di Plinio), sia i tragitti brevi. A titolo di esempio, 
potrei menzionare il Viaggio da Napoli a Castellammare (1845) di Achille Gigante, 
oppure quello Da Vizzini a Licodia (1878) di tal Cafisi, un percorso che oggi conta 
undici chilometri. Ci si potrebbe chiedere a questo punto quale carta geografica 


45. Sulla “rivoluzione” determinata dall’avvento della bicicletta si sofferma Stephen Kern: 
“La bicicletta fu una ‘grande livellatrice’, che colmava lo spazio sociale e rendeva accessibili 
i viaggi su distanze pit lunghe alle classi medie e inferiori” (Jl tempo e lo spazio. La 
percezione del mondo tra Otto e Novecento, trad. di Barnaba Maj, Bologna, il Mulino, 1988, 
p. 403). 


46. Per la variante moderna del viaggio aereo cfr. l’antologia novecentesca Cieli del mondo. 
Avventure areonautiche italiane narrate dai protagonisti, ac. di Gianni Guadalupi (Milano, 
Anabasi, 1994). 


298 LUCA CLERICI 


d Italia si ricavi dal censimento delle singole localita visitate dai viaggiatori italiani 
nell’arco di 150 anni: provare a disegnare cosi la geografia nazionale é un’operazione 
che in effetti riserva qualche sorpresa. A sorprendere non sono tanto le prevedibili 
lacune, non é il configurarsi della mappa a macchia di leopardo. Piuttosto, stupisce 
la frequente sproporzione fra l’importanza della localita e le dimensioni della sua 
“bibliografia”: grandi centri urbani o zone di notevole interesse non sono mai 
neppure menzionati nei titoli del mio elenco, mentre piccoli paesi decentrati vantano 
spesso un notevole patrimonio bibliografico, per nulla giustificato dalla loro effettiva 
importanza storica, naturalistica, artistica, turistica ecc. La ragione di tale 
sproporzione é perd semplice: per emanciparsi da una condizione di subalternita 
sono soprattutto le zone periferiche a coltivare la tradizione odeporica locale: in 
questo senso, |’esistenza di un patrimonio pregresso di libri di viaggio favorisce 
l’aggiornamento bibliografico. Ecco perché 1 titoli dedicati alla Sardegna (e, 
all’interno dell’isola, a spiccare é la regione del Sulcis) sono molto pit numerosi 
di quelli relativi al Piemonte. 

Nonostante la scarsa fortuna di una prospettiva nazionale sul Bel paese, titoli 
recanti l’indicazione “Italia” e “italiano” se ne contano diversi, anche se ho 
individuato una sola occorrenza dell’aggettivo in forma sostantivata riferito a persona, 
nelle Lettere originali che servono alla vita di un italiano del 1822, atribuibili a 
Giovanni Bettin Roselli. A partire soprattutto dalle molte guide concepite per stranieri 
in cui la sfumatura semantica del lessema allude alla penisola come entita geografica, 
la presenza dei due termini si registra un buon numero di volte, in particolare in 
opere dello stesso tipo della Nuova descrizione storica e geografica dell’Italia (1782) 
di Giuseppe Maria Galanti. Altrettanto numerosi sono i titoli in cui il richiamo alla 
penisola é funzionale all’individuazione di una sua “parte”, come nel Viaggio 
geologico (nel 1792) per diverse meridionali parti deil’Italia (la datazione é incerta) 
di Ermenegildo Pini. Se prima del tramonto del XVIII secolo vi sono alcune 
attestazioni della parola “Italia” in testi redatti ad uso personale,*’ a giudicare dai 
titoli dell’inizio dell’Ottocento non affiora ancora nei viaggiatori censiti alcuna 
coscienza nazionale. E’ a questo riguardo emblematica |’indicazione separata delle 
mete, nelle Lettere scritte nel mio viaggio d'Italia e di Sicilia dal Novembre 1801 
al marzo 1802 di Bartolomeo Gamba, ma colpiscono pure, per l’avvicinamento 
omologante di due paesi tanto distanti, le Lettere scritte dalla Sicilia e dalla Turchia 
di Domenico Sestini (uscite fra 1779 e 1784). Comunque, a prevalere é sempre 
l’accezione dicontenitore geograficamente individuato. Losi evince sia da un titolo 


47. Penso ad esempio al manoscritto Giornale del viaggio in Italia del 1790 di Pietro De 
Lama 0 al sintetico diario del viaggio compiuto con Alessandro Verri dalla marchesa di 
Boccapadule Margherita Sparapani Gentili (1’ Indice delle cose principali registrate nel viaggio 
a’ltalia, del 1794, & stato in parte edito dal Giulini su trascrizione di Francesco Novati in 
“Archivio Storico Lombardo”, 1917, pp. 353-381). 





Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 299 


come Viaggio ai volcani spenti d’Italia nello Stato romano e verso il Mediterraneo 
(1814) di Vito Ricci Procaccini, in cui le tre specificazioni di luogo accomunano 
altrettante entita geografiche disomogenee fra loro, sia dal frequente impiego della 
parola con il senso di generico ambito geografico dei propri personali tragitti, ad 
esempio attestato nel manoscritto Note dei suoi viaggi, particolarmente in Svizzera 
e in Italia di Antonio Benci, datato 1823-1838. Una consuetudine di titolazione, 
questa, che ha il vantaggio di rendere superflua l’indicazione dell’ itinerario, come 
dimostra la Miscellanea pittorica di un Viaggio in Italia (1831) del Cavaliere Della 
Chiesa, una consuetudine replicata in numerose altre “illustrazioni”. 

Rispondendo anzitutto all’esigenza di conoscere finalmente la variegata 
fisionomia del paese, a cavallo degli anni Sessanta le descrizioni d'Italia e i viaggi 
nella penisola si infittiscono: é del 1864 la Descrizione del Regno d’Italia quale 
é costituito presentemente (dicembre 1864) e di tutte quelle province le quali 
dovrebbero farne parte, del 1870 L’Italia nelle sue presenti condizioni fisiche di 
Alfeo Pozzi. In parallelo crescono le iniziative editoriali divulgative espressamente 
indirizzate ai giovani: il celebre Viaggio di Giannettino per I’Italia di Collodi,” 
ma anche La patria. Ossia I’Italia percorsa e descritta. Letture giovanili (1844) 
di Ignazio Cantu (prima attestazione della parola “patria”, destinata a grandi fasti 
negli anni Trenta del Novecento) 0 Una corsa per I’Italia: viaggio di Richetto (1890) 
di B. Carini. Verso gli anni Settanta, l’indicazione del termine complessivo “Italia” 
ricorre con una certa frequenza nei titoli anche quando I’itinerario é parziale (a volte 
sostituito da una perifrasi, come nel dantesco Bel Paese di Stoppani): cosi é per 
Agostino Verona (Passeggiate autunnali nei siti pit pittoreschi e pit dilettevoli 
d'Italia, 1870), per Ariodante Manfredi (Le cento citta d’Italia, 1871) e per molti 
altri autori. Che ormai le coordinate geo-politiche del Paese siano assimilate lo 
conferma il diffondersi dell’allusione alla totalita del territorio nazionale grazie 
all’individuazione degli estremi geografici della penisola: nel 1875 é in libreria 
Dall’Alpi all’Etna. Descrizione pittoresca dell’Italia. Per converso, non si puo tacere 
di quei titoli in cui invece @ presupposta la distinzione Nord-Sud, destinata a 
radicalizzarsi: nel 1843 G. B. De Capitani propone le sue Corse per l’alta Italia, 
nel 1860 G. De Luca si occupa espressamente dell’ /talia meridionale. L’antico reame 
delle Due Sicilie. Negli ultimi decenni del secolo si affermano infine diverse 
occorrenze dell’aggettivo “italiano”: se nel 1877 Pier Biagio Casoli lo usa allo scopo 
di connotare il protagonista del viaggio (Roma. Note di un pellegino italiano nel 
giugno 1877), \’antico genere del confronto tematizza ora intere popolazioni, un 
fatto rivelatore di un forte senso di appartenenza: nel 1899 B. de Luca stampa Fra 
Italiani, Tedeschi e Slavi. 

Come sempre, una componente fondamentale nella scelta del percorso é il tipo 
di curiosita dell’autore, non di rado espresso sin dal titolo. A specifica competenza 


48. Il primo volume, L’/talia superiore, esce nel 1880. 


300 LUCA CLERICI 


(archeologica 0 mineralogica, vulcanologica 0 storico artistica) corrispondono quasi 
sempre itinerari canonici, gli stessi contemplati dalla letteratura di viaggio degli 
stranieri in Italia. Ad assumere maggiore rilevanza, si capisce, sono percid le zone 
in grado di attirare viaggiatori mossi da motivazioni diverse: nella Toscana meta 
prediletta di tanti naturalisti del Setecento pullulano i monumenti storico-artistici, 
alla Sicilia archeologica si somma quella dominata dall’Etna, e cosi di seguito. E 
infatti, la molteplicita di attrattive di un sito si riflette a volte nella pluralita degli 
approcci contemplati sul frontespizio: nel 1828 Giovanni Serafino Volta intitola 
eloquentemente il suo libro Descrizione del lago di Garda e de’ suoi contorni con 
osservazioni di storia naturale e di belle arti. Per converso, |’interesse mirato del 
viaggiatore pud determinare |’individuazione di mete inedite, interessanti giusto 
dalla prospettiva del singolo traveller: capita cosi per le molte localita dell’appennino 
modenese e reggiano percorso nel Settecento da Lazzaro Spallanzani, per 
Sant’ Angelo, San Gaudenzio, Portone e Scapezzano nel dipartimento del Metauro, 
visitate nel 1813 da Paolo Spadoni Professore di Botanica e Agricoltura alla ricerca 
delle “gessaje”, o per l’interessante Notizie d’una escursione fatta nel 1832 nelle 
tre valli del Piemonte abitate dai Valdesi (1832) di tale Azanam.*” Ma per quanto 
riguarda mete e tragitti, non si pud dimenticare che fino a tutto l’Ottocento é la 
stessa viabilita ad imporre geografie ricorrenti e molto parziali rispetto alla varieta 
territoriale della nazione, e le mete pid importanti si giovano di una fama 
plurisecolare rinverdita dalla voga del Grand Tour. Citta come Venezia, Roma, 
Napoli, localita come Capri e Pompei confermano nella mia bibliografia la loro 
prevedibile centralita. Inoltre, i medesimi itinerari sono destinati a ripetersi nei vari 
sottogeneri di viaggio: valga per tutti la replica dello scontato percorso Roma-Napoli, 
attestato dapprima nel manoscritto in forma di appunti personali di Ubertino Landi 
Viaggio a Roma e a Napoli (1750), poi come illustrazione nel Viaggio pittorico 
da Roma a Napoli di Luigi Rossini del 1839. Ma alle principali strade che tagliano 
la penisola sono dedicati specifici volumi, in cui la materia é appunto organizzata 
grazie a questo facile ed efficace pretesto, almeno sin dal 1745, anno in cui 
Francesco Maria Pratilli da alle stampe Della via Appia riconosciuta e descritta 
da Roma a Brindisi; nel 1819 sara la volta della via del Sempione, nel 1821 del 
San Bernardo, e cosi via. Comunque, complessivamente, nel corso dell’ Ottocento 
le mete dei viaggiatori italiani in Italia si moltiplicano, e i titoli contemplano localita 


49. Circa il rapporto fra missioni scientifiche e soggiorni pit disinteressati, fra Sette e 
Ottocento le tendenze sono due. Se in alcuni casi é il viaggio scientifico ad identificare mete 
destinate a divenire “popolari” (accade cosi per molte localita del sud, indagate per la prima 
volta da prospettive in prevalenza economico-giuridiche e naturalistiche), capita pure l’inverso. 
Il Prospetto della flora Euganea (1842), recensito positivamente sul Politecnico di Cattaneo, 
é successivo a testi di interesse pil generale come Alcuni giorni ai colli Euganei (1830) di 
Arrigo Bocchi. 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 301 


niente affatto scontate. Si va dalle singole valli alpine — la Valcamonica (1803), 
la val di Fassa (1819) — ad intere regioni — la Valle d’ Aosta (1835) —, a isole 
minuscole come il Giglio (1818) o remote come Lampedusa e Linosa (1846), a 
citta di provincia come Mondovi (la Breve escursione tra l’agosto e settembre 1868 
nel circondario di Mondovi & del 1869) o addirittura a piccoli e sconosciuti paesi: 
nel 1863 Eraldo scrive Alcuni di a Bagolino nel giugno 1849, un borgo in provincia 
di Brescia che oggi conta 2500 anime. Parallelamente al miglioramento delle vie 
di comunicazione va poi registrato un notevole incremento del numero dei 
viaggiatori. La nascita del turismo comporta, insieme alla valorizzazione generaliz- 
zata delle risorse culturali e paesaggistiche nazionali, un radicale mutamento delle 
prospettive: verso la fine del secolo, ad esempio, parecchie cime alpine perdono 
la loro tradizionale attrattiva scientifica, soprattutto mineralogica e geologica, a 
favore di un nuovo interesse di carattere alpinistico ed escursionistico. Nonostante 
questa indubbia vivacita, perO, la geografia nazionale desumibile dalle titolazioni 
di questi viaggiatori nostrani presenta ancora parecchie “macchie bianche”. Cosi, 
se ai laghi settentrionali é dedicata una folta bibliografia specifica (in particolare 
per quanto concerne il Garda), non c’é praticamente nulla sui diversi laghi dell’ Italia 
centrale. 

Resta ancora da chiarire, a questo punto, l’ordine cronologico con cui si 
succedono alla ribalta della letteratura di viaggio le varie localita.° All’altezza 
dell’anno 1800 le regioni di cui si ha notizia nella bibliografia sono 15, la grande 
maggioranza. II ritmo di ingresso nell’elenco diminuisce con il passare del tempo: 
fra 1750 e 1762 i viaggiatori recano testimonianze di ben 9 regioni; fra 1763 e 1789 
il numero scende a 5, mentre nei successivi 72 anni se ne aggiungono all’elenco 
altre 6. Emblematica la data in cui si ha testimonianza dell’ultima regione, peraltro 
solo attraversata nel Viaggio da Firenze a Roma per la via di Perugia, Todi, Narni, 
Ponte Felice e pel Tevere: con \’Umbria, nel 1861 il censimento della nazione é 
completato. 

Ancora una volta, i viaggiatori privilegiano le regioni di cui si ha gia una 
conoscenza dettagliata, e si avventurano in zone meno note solo molto pit tardi. 
Alle estremita cronologiche si trovano infatti aree geografiche facilmente prevedibili: 
fra le regioni frequentate per prime registro il Lazio (quasi identificabile con la 
sola capitale), la Toscana (ad eccezione soprattutto della Maremma e della 
Garfagnana), il Veneto (in primis, naturalmente, Venezia), la Sicilia (ma solo alcune 
zone costiere) e la Campania (Napoli, i siti archeologici, alcuni tratti della costa); 
fra quelle di cui si ha pid tarda notizia, oltre all’ Umbria si contano Friuli (1799), 
Marche (1813), Trentino (1819), Basilicata (1826) e Valle d’Aosta (1835). In 


50. I dati che seguono sono puramente indicativi. Li ho ricavati calcolando solo quei titoli 
in cui sono presenti riferimenti a localita che ne rendono possibile la classificazione, effettuata 
secondo l’odierna geografia delle regioni d'Italia. 


302 LUCA CLERICI 


generale vale dunque una regola: quanto prima un’area geografica viene ritenuta 
degna di essere visitata, tanto pil numerosi saranno i titoli che ne parlano. Con 
qualche eccezione. Ad esempio, il Piemonte entra nella bibliografia nel 1755, ma 
per trovare un altro titolo bisogna aspettare addirittura quaranta anni. Percid, a dare 
importanza alla singola regione noné tanto |’antichita della sua prima attestazione 
nella bibliografia, quanto piuttosto il numero complessivo dei titoli che ne trattano: 
la Sicilia compare solo nel 1762, sette anni dopo il Piemonte, ma i libri dedicati 
a localita della Trinacria nella seconda meta del Settecento sono una decina. Rispetto 
alla quantita dei titoli, nel diciottesimo secolo si configurano quattro gruppi: il primo 
comprende Toscana (18 titoli) e Sicilia (11); il secondo é quello con regioni trattate 
in 7 o 8 libri (Veneto, Lazio, Campania, Lombardia); il terzo include Liguria, 
Sardegna, Emilia e Calabria (4 0 5 titoli a testa), mentre due sole testimonianze 
riguardano Piemonte, Molise, Puglia e Abruzzo. Corrispondenza significativa, le 
sel regioni di cui si ha pit tarda notizia contano ognuna pochissimi titoli: la loro 
subalternita in ambito nazionale é confermata anche da un computo meramente 
quantitativo. Per rendere meglio ragione di queste dinamiche, sarebbe opportuno 
individuare oltre alla data della prima attestazione delle mete e alla loro frequenza 
nel corpus, 1] tipo di interesse cui le varie localita sono associate. Da questo punto 
di vista, perO, le previsioni sono piuttosto facili: ad ogni epoca culturale corrispondo- 
no infatti gusti particolari e interessi specifici che tendenzialmente valorizzano in 
localita diverse i medesimi aspetti. Non per nulla i viaggi settecenteschi al Sud hanno 
quasi tutti un taglio economico o naturalistico, ed ecco perché non stupisce affatto 
la titolazione delle uniche due testimonianze sulla Puglia, Lettere geografico-fisiche 
sopra la Calabria e la Puglia (1784) e Peregrinazione letteraria per una parte 
dell’Apulia con la descrizione delle sue sopravvanzanti antichita, opera databile 
post 1786. 

Le considerazioni fin qui svolte in forma di appunti non escludono naturalmente 
tantissime altre possibilita di lettura del materiale bibliografico presentato. Lasciando 
finalmente da parte i titoli, e prendendo invece in considerazione gli autori, si fa 
presto ad accorgersi di un fatto: a fianco di scrittori affermati (da Alberto Fortis 
a Renato Fucini, da Edmondo De Amicis a Cletto Arrighi, a tanti altri), nella 
bibliografia abbondano i personaggi celebri per altre ragioni. Basti pensare agli 
scienziati oppure ai politici, fra cui mi limito a fare il nome di Quintino Sella (Una 
salita al Monviso. Lettera a B. Gastaldi, 1863). Ma le qualifiche professionali e 
la provenienza socioculturale degli autori di testi di viaggio sono quanto mai varie: 
a fare le valige si alternano eruditi locali, nobili facoltosi, militari, e poi viaggiatori 
per ragioni di lavoro o di svago, diplomatici, giornalisti, poligrafi e cosi via. II 
punto é che allo statuto “debole” della letteratura di viaggio corrisponde una 
possibilita di accesso alla scrittura odeporica molto ampia e generalizzata: il basso 
tasso di prescrittivita retorico-formale, le notevoli implicazioni praticistiche di queste 
opere, non di rado scritte per sé e pubblicate solo in un secondo tempo per una 
ristretta cerchia di lettori, ne fanno un campo di scrittura aperto anche a chi non 


Viaggiatori italiani in Italia (1750-1900) 303 


é affatto un artista: a questo proposito, inequivocabile mi sembra Attorno al Monte 
Bianco. Viaggetto di alcuni impiegati, raccontato ai colleghi, del 1866.*' Del resto, 
la sorprendente quantita dei titoli inventariati si spiega anche con questa semplice 
ragione. 

Come la rassegna dei titoli, anche quella degli autori fornisce interessanti spunti 
di indagine. E’ facile, anzitutto, individuare gli specialisti del genere, chi ne fece 
una vera e propria professione: é il caso (ne cito uno solo) del poligrafo Davide 
Bertolotti (poeta, romanziere, tragediografo, saggista, traduttore, direttore di periodici 
e di collane), attivo scrittore di viaggi dal 1817 al 1863, con almeno una dozzina 
di fortunati volumi. Di un certo interesse sarebbe in secondo luogo valutare il 
rapporto fra la provenienza dei vari autori e le mete dei loro itinerari: nel Settecento, 
per esempio, a viaggiare nel sud sono soprattutto intellettuali meridionali, ma sarebbe 
istruttivo studiare l’evoluzione di questi flussi nel secolo seguente. Infine, mi sembra 
particolarmente suggestiva una ricerca sulle donne viaggiatrici: proprio perché non 
sono molto numerose sarebbe interessante illuminarne la personalita, l’estrazione 
culturale, le motivazioni che le hanno spinte a partire e le ragioni per cui hanno 
dato pubblica testimonianza scritta dei loro viaggi. Ne cito solo alcune. Fra le 
viaggiatrici in Italia, senza ulteriori specificazioni di meta, Margherita Sparapani 
Gentili Marchesa di Boccapadule (il suo resoconto é del 1794), Cecilia Stazzone 
De Gregorio (1854), Aurelia Cimino Follero de Luna (1879) e Felicita Morandi 
(1890). Itinerari pit precisi e circoscritti seguirono invece Anna Perpenti (lago di 
Como, Stelvio e Spluga, 1828); Onorina Casale (a Roma, 1878); Antonietta 
Giacomelli (sul Monte Grappa, 1880); Cesira Pozzolini Siciliani (a Napoli e dintorni, 
1880); Rita Blé (a Firenze, 1881), e ancora Gabriella Dora (sulle Alpi, 1882), la 
fiabista Emma Perodi (sull’ Appennino, 1884), Grazia Pierantoni-Mancini (sul Tevere, 
1884). Molti di questi nomi — forse meno di quelli che risultano sconosciuti a me 
— credo meriterebbero un’ apposita indagine bio-bibliografica, specifici sondaggi. 
Del resto, a richiedere indispensabili approfondimenti sono la maggior parte di queste 
mie Osservazioni preliminari, semplici spunti di discussione, rassegna di temi spero 
non privi di interesse. Soprattutto un pretesto, dicevo all’inizio, per provare a 
raccontare le prime risultanze di un lavoro bibliografico. 


Universita degli Studi, Milano 


51. La varieta morfologica della letteratura di viaggio é confermata pure dall’eterogeneita 
materiale di queste opere: semplici opuscoli di modesta qualita tipografica, testi per nozze 
elegantemente confezionati, sontuosi volumi di grande formato arricchiti con pregevoli 
illustrazioni, guide copertinate per sopportare |’esposizione agli agenti atmosferici, libri rilegati 
in modo tradizionale ecc. Ovviamente, alla confezione editoriale corrispondono una certa 
circolazione e un preciso mercato: si va dalle opere stampate privatamente destinate alla 
cerchia della famiglia, a testi concepiti per un pubblico di collezionisti e bibliofili. 


MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’ Ottocento: 
La principessa di Belgioioso, 
Amalia Nizzoli e Carla Serena 


Nella cultura del nostro “popolo di poeti e navigatori” e, in genere, nell’immaginario 
della cultura occidentale, il topos del viaggio e tutte le metafore che lo accompagnano 
appaiono sempre coniugati al maschile: Ulisse, Giasone, Enea, solo per citare nomi 
che evocano una mitologia familiare. Al movimento dell’eroe, alla sua possibilita 
di percorrere terre, mari e cieli, si contrappone la stasi della donna: Penelope, 
Nausicaa, Sirena, Circe, Didone. Se non disposte, come Penelope, a consumare 
la propria vita nell’attesa del ritorno dell’eroe, le donne sono pronte ad ostacolarne 
il viaggio, a distrarre l’uomo dal raggiungimento delle sue mete usando le armi 
tipicamente femminili della dolcezza, della seduzione, del ricatto amoroso. Nella 
letteratura, dunque, il territorio maschile del viaggio é stato a lungo inaccessibile 
alle donne. 

Illustrando il percorso di emancipazione delle Literary Women, Ellen Moers 
indica la nascita—con i romanzi gotici settecenteschi di Anne Radcliffe—di un 
“Travelling Heroinism”. Il genere gotico diventa un sostituto femminile del 
picaresco: le eroine di questi romanzi, infatti, oltre a potersi muovere all’ interno 
dei castelli gotici in quel viaggio “indoors” — nello spazio domestico da sempre 
concesso alle donne — “alla mercé dei villani sono costrette a fare quello che non 
potrebbero mai fare da sole: fuggire in cima ad Alpi di cartone, spiare paesaggi 
esotici, addentrarsi in foreste infestate dai banditi”.' Possono dunque, anche se 
solo con ’immaginazione, sconfinare “outdoors”, all’esterno. 

Nell’Ottocento, epoca di grandi viaggi, anche alle donne sembrano aprirsi le 
porte dell’avventura. Verso la meta del secolo esplode il fenomeno delle “Victorian 
travelling ladies” 0 delle “spinsters abroad”.’ Signore e signorine vittoriane si 
avventurano in tutto il mondo: quasi tutte le viaggiatrici sono inglesi, ma non 


1. “Many a woman writer after Radcliffe has responded to the restrictions of her life with 
the same kind of romance, as the titles alone of some of their books testify: The Wanderer 
(Fanny Burney), Lettres d’un voyageur (G. Sand), The Wide, Wide World (by the American 
bestseller, by Susan B. Warner), The Voyage Out (Virginia Woolf)” (pp. 126-128). 


2. Come spiritosamente le definisce il titolo del saggio di Dea Birkett. 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 305 


mancano austriache, francesi e americane.* Alcune viaggiano con il marito,* molte 
altre da sole,° come |’eccentrica Lady Stanhope, che si stabilisce in Siria, e la mitica 
Jane Digby, che a quasi cinquant’anni, arrivata a Damasco, sposo in quarte nozze 
lo sceicco di una triba di beduini.° 

Una delle mete favorite delle europee, meta che attrae anche le americane, 
soprattutto nei primi decenni del secolo, é I’Italia. Tra i motivi del viaggio nel 
Bel Paese c’é il richiamo della lotta risorgimentale per la liberta dei popoli, quello 
che Angela Bianchini ha definito “viaggio d’amore”. Percorsi d’amore — della 
liberta e di un uomo compagno di lotta — sono infatti quelli dell’inglese Jessie White 
Mario e dell’americana Margaret Fuller Ossoli.’ 

In questo secolo gli (uomini) italiani non sembrano mantenersi all’altezza della 
loro fama di viaggiatori, anche se le vicende risorgimentali creano un flusso di 
fuoruscitismo politico. Gruppi di esuli si stabiliscono in Svizzera, in Inghilterra 
e in Grecia, altri arrivano fino all’ Egitto e alla Turchia’®, altri ancora si avventurano 
nelle Americhe. Sono proprio degli esuli a costituire, in questo continente, il primo 
nucleo dell’emigrazione italiana.” Non mancano viaggiatori solitari, che pero 
appaiono un po’ predisposti agli incidenti, come quel Filippo Pananti che nel 1813 
si imbarca a Londra per un viaggio nel Mediterraneo, ma finisce prigioniero in 
Algeria dopo che il brigantino su cui viaggia é catturato dai pirati.'° Alla lista 
degli “accidentati” si pud aggiungere la carovana di dieci pellegrini milanesi, di 


3. Tra queste l’austriaca Ida Pfeiffer, che inizio i suoi viaggi dal Medio Oriente (1842) 
e poi, tra il 1845 e il 1858, fece tre volte il giro del mondo. La francese Alexandra David- 
Neel soggiorno a pil riprese, tra il 1891 e il 1928, in India e in Asia centrale, vivendo per 
due anni da eremita nell’Himalaya e diventando un’esperta di religione e filosofia buddista. 
Le americane non sono da meno: nel 1891 Elizabeth Bisland, parti per un giro del mondo 
come inviata di un giornale; nello stesso anno May French Sheldon intraprese un viaggio 
in Africa che descrisse poi nel libro Sultan to Sultan; Fanny Bullock Workman viaggio con 
il marito negli anni ’90 in Africa e in medio Oriente. 


4. Insieme al marito viaggiano Lady Anne Blunt, che visita — tra il 1870 e il 1878 — la 
Spagna e l’Algeria, arrivando fino all’Egitto e alla Siria e Lady Isabel Burton, moglie del 
famoso viaggiatore ed orientalista Sir Richard Burton. 


5. Da sole viaggiano Isabella Bird, che visita 1’America (nel 1856 e 1859) e tra il 1889 
e il 1896 viaggia in India, Persia, Corea, Giappone, Cina; Mary Kingsley viaggia in Africa 
tra il 1893 e il 1897; Gertrude Margaret Bell visita la Persia e la Siria tra il 1892 e la fine 
del secolo. 


6. Jane Digby aveva ventidue anni quando lascio l’Inghilterra nel 1829 per iniziare una 
nuova vita di viaggi e avventure che vide il suo punto di approdo a Damasco, dove mori 
nel 1881. 


7. Angela Bianchini, “Il viaggio d’amore”, in Liana Borghi e Nicoletta Livi Bacci. 
8. Si vedano i testi di Romeo Manzoni, Ersilio Michel e C. Trassell. 
9. Si veda il volume di Jerre Mangione e Ben Morreale. 


10. Si veda il volume di Carmelo Cappuccio. 


306 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


cul nove sacerdoti, guidata dall’abate Antonio Stoppani nel 1874 e colpita da una 
serie di disgrazie: uno di loro si ammala e muore, |’altro si sfracella una gamba, 
gli altri sono vittime di febbri e devono tornare alla spicciolata in patria. 

Dopo l’unificazione i viaggi, soprattutto verso I’ Africa, si fanno pit frequenti, 
anche come risultato dell’inserimento dell’Italia nella gara coloniale di cui sono 
protagoniste Francia e Inghilterra.'' Non si sviluppa pero nel nostro paese una 
letteratura di viaggio comparabile a quella francese o inglese. 

Se per gli uomini gli orizzonti di viaggio sono limitati, per le donne stentano 
ancora ad aprirsi'”, come mostra la narrativa a firma femminile della seconda meta 
dell” 800, dominata da immagini di donne richiuse negli spazi claustrofobici ed 
oppressivi della famiglia e del matrimonio." 

Un segnale di cambiamento anche per le donne é pero la costituzione, nel 1867, 
della “Societa Geografica italiana” , che é tra l’altro “la prima fra le Societa sorelle 
che si gloria d’aver ammesso nel suo consorzio le donne”, come sottolinea nel 1869 
sul Bollettino della Societa Geografica un articolo che commemora la morte della 
viaggiatrice olandese Alessandrina Tinné, uccisa in Africa dai Tuareg. Dagli elenchi 
annuali dei soci, infatti, risulta una crescente percentuale di iscrizioni di donne." 


in un articolo del 1869 (“I viaggiatori italiani del nostro secolo”) Gaetano Branca 
fa un quadro dettagliato dei “viaggi fatti dagli italiani nelle Americhe, nell’ Asia, 
nell’Oceania” , citando numerosi titoli di scritti di viaggio. Tra gli autori citati da 
Branca non compare pero nessuna donna, nonostante a quella data fossero stati gia 
pubblicati tre libri di viaggio a firma femminile.'* La menzione di questi libri 


11. Molti viaggi sono documentati da bibliografi ottocenteschi ansiosi di dimostrare che 
gli italiani rimangono un popolo di viaggiatori. Si vedano: Pietro Amat di San Filippo e 
Gaetano Branca. Un altro tipo di viaggio post-risorgimentale é quello dell’ ‘inviato’. Come 
inviato speciale, Edmondo De Amicis viaggia in Spagna, Olanda, Marocco e Costantinopoli 
negli anni dal 1872 al 1880. Risultato di questi viaggi fu una serie di volumi: Spagna (1873), 
Ricordi di Londra (1874), Costantinopoli (1877-1878), Ricordi di Parigi (1879). 


12. Come ha sottolineato Michela De Giorgio nel suo bel libro (p. 96). 


13. Si vedano le donne dei romanzi di Neera, Teresa (1886) e L’indomani (1890) e del 
romanzo di Marchesa Colombi, Un matrimonio di provincia (1885), e le protagoniste di 
Addio amore! (1891) e Castigo (1893) della Serao. In questi ed altri testi sono ricorrenti 
fantasie di evasione o di vera e propria fuga, ma un esempio di “gotico” italiano e di “eroine 
Viaggiatrici” si pud forse trovare solamente in due racconti di Luisa Saredo, Pia de’ 
Monteneroni (1858) e Un matrimonio di convenienza (1878). 


14. Il primo elenco dei soci in cui compaiono (gia numerosi) nomi di donne é quello 
contenuto nel vol. 3 del 1869. 


15. Parlando di viaggi in Siria e Palestina (p. 357), Branca cita il libro di Emilio Dandolo, 
frutto del viaggio del 1850-51, fatto insieme al marchese Lodovico Trotti; non cita perd 
il viaggio-soggiorno dello stesso periodo della principessa Cristina di Belgioioso e il suo 
diario di viaggio del 1858 (Asie Mineur et Syrie, Souvenirs de voyage). Della Belgioioso 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 307 


appare nella Bibliografia dei viaggiatori italiani, compilata nel 1873 da Pietro Amat 
di San Filippo, anche lui membro della Societa. Si tratta di Memorie sull’Egitto 
e specialmente sui costumi delle donne orientali e gli harem, scritte durante tl suo 
soggiorno in quel paese (1819-1828) (1841) di Amalia Solla Nizzoli e di Souvenirs 
dans l’exile (1850) e Asie Mineure et Syrie, souvenirs de voyage (1858) di Cristina 
Trivulzio di Belgioioso.'® 

Nel 1881 e nel 1882, nella rubrica bibliografica del Bollettino, & segnalata la 
pubblicazione di due libri di Carla Serena: Une Européenne en Perse (1881) e Tre 
mesi in Kakhezia (1882). 

Qualcosa si muove nel quadro di apparente immobilita delle donne italiane. 
Anche se questo ristretto gruppo non pud competere con la schiera delle “globe 
trotteresses”!’ degli altri paesi, i viaggi e gli scritti della Solla Nizzoli, della 
Belgioioso e di Carla Serena presentano ugualmente aspetti e motivi di grande 
interesse, oltre a quello immediato che deriva dalla loro eccezionalita nel panorama 
italiano. 


La moda dell’ Oriente esplode in Europa dopo la pubblicazione nel 1704 della 
traduzione in francese di Antoine Galland di Alf Laila wa Laila (Le mille e una 
notte). Lanozione geografica di “Oriente” in questo periodo é piuttosto indetermi- 
nata e abbraccia un’area che puo arrivare fino all’India e al Giappone, ma 
generalmente si riferisce ai paesi di religione islamica del nord Africa e a quelli 
dell’ Impero ottomano fino all’Iran. In breve tempo il gusto per I’esotico influenza 
la letteratura, il teatro, la musica e la pittura: Montesquieu scrive le Lettres persanes 
(1721), Voltaire pubblica Zadig (1748), mentre sulle scene parigine fa furore il 
dramma di ambientazione orientale di Racine, Bajazet. Alla moda orientale 
contribuisce la musica con il Ratto dal Serraglio (1782) di Mozart a cui fanno seguito 
varie composizioni “turche”, tra cui la “Marcia turca” di Beethoven. Nel 1829 
escono Les Orientales di Victor Hugo, mentre la “Grande Odalisque” di Ingres 
(1814) da l’avvio in pittura ad una lunga serie di rappresentazioni di odalische. 
A tutte queste immagini dell’oriente, prevalentemente incentrate su figure di donne, 
si aggiungono poco pit tardi quelle della fotografia." 

Nel corso dell’Ottocento l’interesse culturale si affianca e si intreccia al 
movimento di esplorazione e di colonizzazione, soprattutto francese e britannico, 


sul Bollettino della Societa geografica non appare neanche il necrologio nell’anno della morte 
(1871), anche se nell’elenco dei soci é incluso, a partire dal 1870, il nome del marchese 
Ludovico Trotti, marito di Maria, figlia della principessa. 


16. Asie Mineure et Syrie é la rielaborazione di una serie di articoli gia apparsi sulla Revue 
des Deux Mondes nel 1855 con il titolo “La vie intime e la vie nomade en Orient”. 


17. Come le definisce Dorothy Middleton. 


18. Per le immagini di harem e di donne orientali in pittura e in fotografia si vedano: Alev 
Lytle Croutier, Sarah Graham-Brown e Malek Alloula. 


308 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


e l’oriente diventa meta di viaggi che danno origine ad una copiosa letteratura. 
“Oriente” é anche la Terra Santa, luogo di pellegrinaggio, ma la rotta per 
Gerusalemme tocca Costantinopoli e l’Egitto, e quindi viaggio sacro e viaggio 
profano si incrociano negli itinerari di alcuni dei viaggiatori occidentali, soprattutto 
francesi (come Chateaubriand e Lamartine) le cui opere - classici della letteratura 
del viaggio in Oriente - contribuiscono in modo significativo alla costruzione 
dell’oriente immaginario e della ideologia orientalista analizzati da Edward Said 
in Orientalism. 

Il primo dei libri di viaggio, che fara da modello, @ appunto I’ Jtinéraire de 
Paris a Jérusalem di Chateaubriand (1811), a cui segue Voyage en Orient (1835) 
di Lamartine. Voyage en Orient di Nerval, frutto del viaggio di un anno fatto nel 
1843, esce nel 1851. II diario del viaggio del 1849-50 di Gustave Flaubert, fatto 
assieme all’amico Maxime Du Camp, sara nubblicato postumo, ma le sue lettere 
alla madre, agli amici e all’amante Louise Colet, diffondono nei salotti parigini 
le notizie e le immagini del suo oriente. Nelle descrizioni di Flaubert e di Nerval, 
come pit tardi in quelle di Théophile Gautier e di Pierre Loti, occupa un ruolo 
centrale l’immagine della donna orientale, oggetto di voluttuoso e decadente 
piacere.’ 

In Inghilterra Alexander William Kinglake pubblica nel 1844 l’umoristico 
resoconto Eothen e nel 1853 l’esploratore ed orientalista Richard Burton é il primo 
occidentale che riesce, travestito da derviscio arabo, ad avere accesso al santuario 
della Mecca. La sua esperienza é registrata in un importante libro di viaggio in 
Oriente, Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah (1893). 

All’interno di questa letteratura |’Oriente si trasforma sempre di pil da luogo 
geografico in luogo dell’immaginario, |’altro dall’Occidente. Il termine “esotico” 
si arricchisce di echi sessuali ed evoca l’idea di una terra-donna di piaceri, 
l’immagine velata ma svelata del corpo della donna dell’harem, dell’ odalisca, della 
ballerina. 


Mentre nell’Ottocento 1’Oriente diventa una meta privilegiata per scrittori e 
viaggiatori francesi e inglesi, molte donne iniziano a percorrere le stesse rotte e 
a produrre letteratura di viaggio. La prima a scrivere dall’Oriente nel Settecento 
era stata Lady Mary Worthley Montagu, che nel 1717 aveva seguito in Turchia 
il marito, nominato ambasciatore a Costantinopoli per cinque anni. La missione 
del marito falli e dopo un anno la coppia dovette rientrare in Inghilterra, ma durante 
il suo soggiorno in Turchia Lady Montagu si immerse totalmente nella vita del paese, 
dandone una vivida descrizione nelle lettere agli amici londinesi. 


19. “There is very little consent to be found, for example, in the fact that Flaubert’s 
encounter with an Egyptian courtesan produced a widely influential model of the Oriental 
woman, she never spoke of herself, she never represented her emotions, presence, or history. 
He spoke for and represented her” (E. Said, p. 6). 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 309 


Ancora nel Settecento esce A Journey through the Crimea to Constantinople 
(1789) di Lady Elizabeth Craven, il cui viaggio fu anche occasione d’incontro, alla 
corte di Baviera, con il futuro marito, il Margravio di Anspach. 

Dopo queste opere, le Memorie sull’Egitto di Amalia Solla Nizzoli, apparse 
nel 1841, sono il primo diario ottocentesco di una donna occidentale dall’oriente. 
Cristina di Belgioioso @ invece preceduta negli stessi luoghi, oltre che da Lady 
Stanhope, dall’austriaca Ida Pfeiffer e dalla francese Contessa De Gasparin. In 
Egitto viaggiano, tra il 1845 e il 1849, le inglesi Harriet Martineau e Florence 
Nightingale. Nella seconda meta dell’Ottocento i viaggi di donne in Oriente si 
infittiscono. L’inglese Lady Lucie Duff Gordon trascorre lunghi periodi di tempo 
in Nubia, tra il 1862 e il 1865; costretta da motivi di salute a passare gli inverni 
fuori dall’Inghilterra, si appassiona al paese e ne scrive con entusiasmo. Lady 
Burton viaggia con il marito in Siria, Palestina e Terra Santa, Amelia Edwards risale 
in barca il corso del Nilo, Lady Anne Blunt soggiorna tra le tribu beduine 
dell’ Eufrate. 

La visita in Persia di Carla Serena (1877-1878), descritta nel suo libro del 1881, 
anticipa di pit di dieci anni quella di Isabella Bird (1889), mentre i primi soggiorni 
in Persia di Gertrude Bell hanno luogo negli anni di fine secolo, tra il 1892 e il 
1899. Tra i viaggi in Oriente vale infine la pena di citare anche quello, peraltro 
occasionale e meno avventuroso, di Matilde Serao, che nel 1893 si reca in 
pellegrinaggio in Terra Santa.” 


Di fronte al fenomeno del viaggio di donne nell’ Ottocento é inevitabile chiedersi 
se esiste un viaggio e una scrittura al femminile, soprattutto quando il viaggio e 
la scrittura si riferiscono ad un oggetto cosi carico di connotazioni e di rinvii sessuali 
quali |’ Oriente. 

Quando il noto orientalista Edward Said attribuisce (a ragion veduta) alla 
letteratura di viaggio sull’oriente la responsabilita della elaborazione del discorso 
orientalista e individua nella “strategic location” dell’autore il tramite per analizzare 
tale discorso, il maschile da lui usato per riferirsi agli autori di opere sull’oriente 
non é una semplice convenzione grammaticale, bensi riflette una specifica scelta 
di autori e di testi.2! All’interno dell’ampia letteratura, non solo di viaggio, a 


20. Matilde Serao si imbarcd su una nave che portava a Gerusalemme attraverso |’Egitto. 
Si veda Ricordi di Palestina: il resoconto, dopo una breve descrizione della sosta ad 
Alessandria e al Cairo, é tutto dedicato alla visita a Gerusalemme e a Nazareth e all’esperienza 
mistica dell’incontro con i luoghi di Gesu. 


21. “My principal methodological devices for studying authority here are what can be called 
strategic location, which is a way of describing the author’s position in a text with regard 
to the Oriental material he writes about, and strategic formation, which is a way of analysing 
the relationship between texts and the way in which groups of texts, types of texts, even 
textual genres, acquire mass, density, and referential power among themselves and thereafter 
inthe culture at large. . .. Everyone who writes about the Orient must locate himself vis-a-vis 


310 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


cui si riferisce, Said non include infatti scritti di donne, se si eccettua il riferimento 
a Gertrude Bell e alle posizioni politicamente conservatrici che sottostanno ad alcuni 
suoi giudizi sugli Arabi.” Sembra cosi esclusa da parte di Said la possibilita che 
i testi delle viaggiatrici possano fornire elementi, diretti o indiretti, per una 
“decostruzione” del discorso orientalista, possibilita che si potrebbe invece ipotizzare, 
considerando che la donna occidentale non é soggetto di questo discorso, ma é a 
sua volta oggetto, come la donna orientale, di una “costruzione”. 

L’opinione che una specificita di scrittura femminile si ritrovi anche nel campo 
della letteratura di viaggio é piuttosto diffusa tra le studiose che in anni recenti hanno 
richiamato all’attenzione critica le opere di donne in questo campo. Grimley Mason 
e Hurd Green, in Journeys, Autobiographical Writings by Women, inuividuano nella 
scrittura autobiografica femminile una maggiore capacita, rispetto a quella maschile, 
di riconoscere l’altro, cio® di rapportarsi alla diversita.** Shirley Forster, 
nell’introduzione ad Across New Worlds, sostiene che le “influenze testuali sono 
difficili da individuare chiaramente, ma caratteristiche in comune suggeriscono 
l’esistenza di un genere di scrittura di viaggio distintamente femminile” .“ Anche 
Sarah Mills, nel saggio Discourses of Difference: An analysis of Women’s Travel 
and Colonialism, evidenzia una specificita femminile, negli scritti di viaggiatrici, 
nella “maggiore importanza attribuita al coinvolgimento personale e ai rapporti con 
persone di un’altra cultura e nella posizione meno autoritaria che la voce narrativa 


assume” .”° 


the Orient; translated into his text, this location includes the kind of narrative voice he adopts, 
the type of structure he builds, the kind of images, themes, motifs that circulate in Ais text—all 
of which add up to deliberate ways of addressing the reader, containing the Orient, and finally, 
representing it or speaking in its behalf” [corsivo mio] (pp. 20-21). 


22. Per una critica femminista dell’impostazione di Said si vedano i saggi di Sara Mills, 
e Lisa Lowe. 


23. “A reading of the autobiographical writings of women from medieval to modern times 
makes it clear that women have made an important contribution to the genre. The way in 
which women have written about their lives is often distinct from the way men have written. 
. . . InN woman’s autobiographical writing, the self-portrait often includes the real presence 
and recognition of another consciousness” (p. xiii). 


24. “Textual influences are hard to pinpoint, but characteristics in common suggest the 
existence of a distinctively female genre of travel writing” (p. viii). 


25. “The authors travelled for very different reasons and in different countries, and wrote 
about their travels within a multiplicity of constraints—gender, class, purpose of their journey, 
textual conventions, audience and so on—which acted upon and informed their writing. These 
factors determine that the texts will be constructed differently, both from texts by other women 
and also those by men. And yet what the narrators write about the people amongst whom 
they travelled and their attitude to those people is surprisingly similar and seems to differ 
from the writings of male travellers in the stress they lay on personal involvement and 
relationship with people of the other culture and in the less authoritarian stance they take 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 311 


Accanto ai caratteri comuni, perd, la stessa Mills sottolinea la “complessita 
e, paradossalmente, la indecifrabilité, a dispetto della apparente leggibilita” , degli 
scritti di viaggio di donne, dovuta spesso ad una serie di “pressioni discorsive sulla 
produzione e ricezione che le donne scrittrici hanno dovuto negoziare in modi molto 
diversi da quelli degli uomini”, specialmente quando il viaggio e il discorso 
femminile si sono confrontati con il terreno tutto maschile del colonialismo (pp. 
5-6). Ancora Shirley Forster intravede nei testi di viaggiatrici vittoriane in Italia, 
in Nord America e in Estremo Oriente, una “gender ambiguity” derivante dal 
bisogno delle donne viaggiatrici di trovare un equilibrio “assumendo le virti maschili 
della forza, iniziativa e decisione pur mantenendo le meno aggressive qualita 
considerate appropriate per il loro sesso”.”° 

Va al di 1a dei limiti di questo scritto esaminare il panorama della narrativa 
di viaggio in Oriente di donne europee e tentare di rispondere alla domanda posta 
sopra attraverso il necessario confronto tra i viaggi e le opere di donne e tra questi 
e i viaggi e la letteratura di viaggio “al maschile” . 

Prima di riportare pero il discorso alle viaggiatrici italiane, appare necessario 
porsi alcune domande generali, utilizzando, tra l’altro, alcune delle categorie 
interpretative offerte dalla critica femminista e dallo stesso Said:” 

1. Sulla specificita del viaggio di donne: quali sono le motivazioni del viaggio? 
Perché viaggiano in oriente e che cosa (non) cercano le viaggiatrici? Che tipo di 
“viaggiatori” sono? Come si muovono per il paese? Che relazione instaurano con 
le persone (uomini e donne) che incontrano? 

2. Sulla specificita della scrittura di viaggio: qual é il motivo (esplicito od 
implicito) della scelta della scrittura? Che uso fanno le viaggiatrici-scrittrici dell’io 
narrante? Che valore/autorevolezza attribuiscono alla propria scrittura? Che cosa 
scelgono di osservare? Quali sono, in definitiva, per usare le parole di Said “le 
immagini, i temi e i motivi che circolano nel testo?” 

Altre domande importanti riguardano sia la “ricezione” di questi testi (Se i viaggi 


vis-a-vis narrative voice” (p. 21). 


26. “As women became able to travel more widely and more independently they had to adopt 
a position of gender ambiguity, taking on the masculine virtues of strength, initiative and 
decisiveness while retaining the less aggressive qualities considered appropriate to their own 
sex” (pp. 11-12). 


27. Mi limiterd a seguirne alcuni suggerimenti, cercando per esempio di individuare 
“l’importanza attribuita al coinvolgimento personale e ai rapporti con persone di un’altra 
cultura” (Mills), in particolare nei rapporti con le donne; un’utile chiave di lettura € anche 
quella che rinvia all’esistenza—dietro al testo—di “costraining factors” e “discursive pressures” 
che possono determinare una “gender ambiguity”. I] concetto di “strategic location” formulato 
da Said é invece applicabile a questi testi sostituendo il maschile al femminile per esaminare 
“the kind of narrative voice she adopts . . . the kind of images, themes, motifs that circulate 
in her text”. 


312 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


e le opere di queste donne furono conosciuti e quale “autorita” viene loro 
attribuita)* che la loro possibile intertestualita (se cioé le viaggiatrici-scrittrici 
siano a conoscenza delle opere delle altre e se, in qualche modo, si riconoscano 
come gruppo).” 


Viaggio e scrittura in Nizzoli, Belgiojoso e Serena 


Al di 14 delle differenze nelle motivazioni individuali, va innanzitutto considerato 
il diverso contesto storico in cui il viaggio di queste tre donne si svolge: quello 
di Amalia Nizzoli ha sulla sfondo I’Italia della Restaurazione (il fatto che il marito 
sia funzionario del governo austriaco non é irrilevante) e non si sentono echi delle 
lotte e dei moti risorgimentali. Tutto risorgimentale é invece il viaggio della 
principessa di Belgioioso, mentre quello di Carla Serena si svolge all’interno del 
contesto di un’Europa e di un Oriente attraversati dai rapporti di potere internazionali 
e da interessi coloniali; i suoi libri, che appartengono ad un genere piv vicino al 
reportage giornalistico, illustrano una dimensione e un’idea del viaggio pit 
"moderni". 

Diversissime sono le esperienze di vita e di viaggio di queste tre donne: Amalia 
Solla Nizzoli é una viaggiatrice “per caso”, una di quelle donne che, come spesso 
loro succede, “seguono la rotta” (A. Bianchini). Nel 1919, a tredici anni, parte 
da Livorno con la famiglia, che ha deciso di raggiungere in Egitto il fratello della 
madre, medico presso un alto funzionario locale. A un anno dall’arrivo, i parenti 
combinano il matrimonio di Amalia con Giuseppe Nizzoli, cancelliere del consolato 
austriaco. I Nizzoli si stabiliscono al Cairo, ma poco dopo il matrimonio rientrano 
per un periodo di circa un anno in Italia, dove nasce la loro prima figlia. Nel 1826 
Nizzoli viene nominato cancelliere del Consolato generale ad Alessandria, dove 
nasce un/altra figlia, ma nel 1828 da le dimissioni per motivi di salute e rientra 
in Italia sperando inuna nomina a Smirne. Amalia decide di precederlo 14 e durante 
la traversata in mare subisce la tragedia della morte della seconda figlia. Due anni 


28. Per quanto riguarda la “fortuna” delle autrici italiane dell’Ottocento e delle loro opere, 
Amalia Nizzoli e le sue Memorie sembrano aver avuto scarsa eco e il libro non é stato piu 
ripubblicato, Cristina di Belgioioso, molto conosciuta e molto discussa in vita, é dimenticata 
per lungo tempo dopo la morte e la prima traduzione in italiano di “La vie intime e la vie 
nomade en Orient” esce nel 1921. Non c’é stata una traduzione di Asie Mineure et Syrie, 
souvenirs de voyage, tradotto invece in inglese nel 1862 col titolo Oriental Harems and 
Scenery. L’opera di Carla Serena ebbe maggiore riconoscimento pubblico durante la vita 
dell’autrice, ma non é mai stata tradotta in italiano. 


29. Osserva Shirley Foster: “As individual travellers, each with her own aspirations and 
goals, the women did not see themselves as a group [...] but they were often personally 
connected [...] and they read and aknowledged each other’s work” (pag VIII). 

Nel nostro caso: né Amalia Nizzoli, né Cristina di Belgioioso o Carla Serena fanno 
esplicito riferimento ad altre viaggiatrici (se si eccettua un accenno a Lady Stanhope fatto 
dalla Belgioioso). 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 313 


dopo, fallita la speranza della nomina in Grecia, Amalia torna di nuovo in Italia, 
mentre il marito é richiamato a Vienna. La nomina come viceconsole a Zante arriva 
finalmente nel 1835 e le Memorie si interrompono a questo anno con la promessa 
di una appendice su Zante. Amalia muore probabilmente tra il 1841 e il 1849, 
anno in cui é documentato un secondo matrimonio di Nizzoli. 

Il viaggio é invece un evento quasi di routine nella vita di Cristina Trivulzio 
di Belgioioso che, fin da giovanissima, sceglie la vita rischiosa della patriota, 
combattendo per la liberta e l’indipendenza d’ Italia. I suoi viaggi iniziano nel 1830, 
quando, separatasi dal marito, lascia Milano e si sposta per I’Italia, prendendo 
contatti con i gruppi liberali ed iscrivendosi alla Carboneria. Nel 1830, perseguitata 
dalla polizia austriaca, fugge in Francia e si stabilisce a Parigi. Nel 1849, con il 
crollo della Repubblica Romana di Mazzini, alla cui difesa ha partecipato dirigendo 
gli ospedali militari”, @ costretta di nuovo a lasciare |’Italia. Dopo una tappa a 
Malta e in Grecia arriva in Turchia e si stabilisce nel piccolo villaggio di Ciaq-Mag- 
Oglu, in una valle non lontano da Ankara, con la figlia di dodici anni, la sua 
governante inglese e un piccolo gruppo di collaboratori. Da li, nel 1852, decide 
di partire per Gerusalemme. II viaggio, attraverso |’ Asia Minore e la Siria, durera 
quasi un anno. Nel 1856 la precaria situazione finanziaria della sua fattoria e 
l’abbattimento fisico e morale seguito all’aggressione di cui é vittima — un servitore 
l’assale a pugnalate — la convincono a ritornare a Milano, dove muore nel 1871. 


Anche il viaggio di Carla Serena, moglie di Leone Serena, uno dei proscritti 
dopo il crollo della Repubblica Veneziana del 1848, inizia come esilio: da Venezia 
segue il marito a Marsiglia, a Parigi, in Belgio e infine a Londra. Negli anni che 
seguono, |’esilio si trasforma in una vita da viaggiatrice di professione: nominata 
corrispondente a Vienna di un giornale di Anversa, prosegue i suoi viaggi da sola 
in Svezia, Norvegia, Egitto, Grecia, Russia, nel Caucaso e in Persia. I] resoconto 
dei suoi viaggi é contenuto in una serie di libri dal titolo Mon Voyage: Souvenirs 
personnels.*' Socia delle principali societa geografiche d’ Europa, é decorata dal 
re di Svezia e dal re d’Italia nel 1882 quale “benemerita degli studi etnografici, 


30. In questa occasione la sua storia si incrocia con quella di un’ altra viaggiatrice, 
l’americana Margaret Fuller, autrice di Woman in the Nineteenth Century (1845), arrivata 
in Italia nel 1847 come corrispondente del New York Tribune e qui divenuta una fervente 
mazziniana. Nel 1849, insieme a molte altre volontarie, collabor6 con la principessa al lavoro 
degli ospedali militari. A Roma la Fuller aveva incontrato il marchese Angelo Ossoli, dal 
quale ebbe un figlio. Tutti e tre trovarono la morte nel 1850 nel naufragio della nave che 
li portava in America. 


31. Pubblicati in Francia tra il 1880 e il 1884. Tra questi: “Le Caucase”, “Lettres 
d’Autriche”, “Lettres Scandinavienne,” “Lettres Elléniques”, “De la Baltique a la Mer 
Caspienne”, “Une Européenne en Perse”, “Kalmuckia”. 


314 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


esploratrice coraggiosa delle regioni caucase”. Muore in Grecia nel 1884.” 


Amalia Nizzoli, dopo il primo viaggio in nave da Livorno ad Alessandria e 
da li al Cairo, viaggia da “moglie di diplomatico”, anche se questo non le evita 
difficolta e disgrazie. Gia durante il primo ritorno in Italia, dopo il matrimonio, 
viene sfiorata la tragedia: la nave su cui si sono imbarcati lei e il marito prima rischia 
il naufragio per una burrasca, poi viene assaltata dai pirati e il capitano accusa 
Nizzoli di essere responsabile delle disgrazie successe per aver nascosto delle 
mummie tra le antichita contenute nei cassoni da spedire in Italia (pp. 84-85). Nei 
viaggi all’interno del paese Amalia é sempre scortata o protetta e l’unico spostamento 
che fa da sola é quando, su desiderio del marito, si reca in un villaggio vicino a 
Menfi per sovrintendere a degli scavi da lui intrapresi.* 

Cristina di Belgioioso, al contrario, dopo il suo arrivo in Turchia, viaggia 
sempre da sola nelle zone limitrofe al suo villaggio, spesso per recarsi a curare 
dei malati. Fin dal suo arrivo, infatti, si fa conoscere per le sue capacita mediche 
e molti pascia la considerano un’eccellente guaritrice. Il motivo dichiarato del 
viaggio a Gerusalemme del 1851 é quello di far ricevere la Prima Comunione alla 
figlia in Terra Santa (anche il ruolo di madre-capofamiglia € vissuto con una certa 
originalita!), ma leggendo Asie Mineure et Syrie non sembra che I’arrivo a 
Gerusalemme abbia rappresentato la parte pil importante del suo itinerario, scandito 
da varie tappe, ognuna delle quali densa di avventure ed esperienze. II] gruppo 
(composto da lei, dalla figlia Maria con la governante e dalla “scorta di cavalieri 
senza cui é impossibile viaggiare in Oriente”) attraversa a cavallo e a piedi montagne 
piene di neve per arrivare ad Angora (il viaggio inizia a gennaio), i poveri villaggi 
della Cappadocia e le pericolose zone del Giaur-Daghda abitate da popolazioni ostili 
al governo centrale di Costantinopoli. Nonostante i tentativi di dissuasione del pascia 
della zona, la principessa scende poi attraverso le montagne della Siria fino a Beirut. 
Alla partenza da Antiochia le viene consigliato di farsi scortare dalle truppe del 
pascia dirette verso l’interno della regione, ma lei preferisce procedere da sola. 
Costeggiando il mare il gruppo arriva infine a Gerusalemme (pp. 98, 132-133). 


32. Si veda I’Jllustrazione italiana, 1X, 3 (15 gennaio 1882). Non fu perd, a quanto pare, 
socia della Societa geografica italiana, perché il suo nome non compare negli elenchi pubblicati 
nel bollettino della societa. Appaiono invece menzioni della pubblicazione di suoi libri e 
articoli: nella bibliografia del vol. 18 (1881) (Une Européenne en Perse. Parigi, Dreyfous, 
1881) e nel vol. 19 (1882) (citazione della rivista Le Tour du Monde, 14, 21, 28 ottobre 
e 4 novembre 1882: Tre mesi in Kakhezia). 


33. “Era in un certo modo un passatempo per me di assai nuovo genere, onde accondiscesi 
di buon grado ai desideri di lui. Mi trasferii con tutto l’occorrente a Saccarah ove era stato 
stabilito un alloggio per me. E siccome si trattava di vivere fra gli Arabi, lontana dal Cairo 
quasi quattro ore di cammino, mio marito aveva ottenuto, insieme col firmano per gli scavi 
concedutogli dal Pascia, anche un ordine del Kiaja-Bey (governatore generale) per il maire 
di Saccarah rendendolo responsabile di qualunque sinistro accidente che m’accadesse durante 
la mia dimora cola” (p. 234). 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 315 


La Belgioioso riceve spesso ospitalita dai pascia che ha curato o da loro amici, ma 
molti pernottamenti sono in tenda e in alloggi improvvisati. Altre volte, adeguandosi 
alla consuetudine dei viaggiatori in Oriente e alle regole dell’ ospitalita orientale, 
chiede protezione ai pascia delle zone in cui sta entrando. Questi ricevono la 
principessa, la cui fama di amazzone si é sparsa per la Turchia, con tutti gli onori, 
trattandola come un diplomatico o un capo politico e militare straniero: il pascia 
di Adana insiste per avere illuminazioni sulla situazione politica europea, mentre 
un altro pascia di cui il gruppo é ospite nel viaggio di ritorno, le fa trovare il suo 
esercito schierato e, con grande divertimento di Cristina, la invita a passarlo in 
rassegna. Alcuni incontri sono invece occasione di irritazione, come quello con 
il vecchio mufti di Cerkes, il quale alle domande di Cristina sulla sorte dei 
numerosissimi figli nati nell’harem risponde candidamente che, appena raggiunta 
l’eta di dodici (per le femmine) o di quattordici anni (per i maschi), questi vengono 
allontanati dalla casa paterna e il padre non si interessa piu alla loro sorte.” La 
sua posizione di “donna sola” noné mai un ostacolo per Cristina Belgioioso. Dopo 
aver attraversato la zona del Giaur-Dahga osserva anzi: 


Chiunque visiti l’oriente, deve tener conto nelle previsioni, oltre che della fatica, 
anche del pericolo; ma il miglior modo per affrontarlo non é forse liberarsi dai 
terrori puerili tenuti in vita da vecchi pregiudizi, e di cui alcune donne si 
compiacciono? Una specie di debolezza pretenziosa e imbellettata venga pure 
considerata come una delle attrattive femminili: quanto a me, mi sara sempre 
difficile capirla, e non sapro mai scusarla. (p. 124) 


Carla Serena, nell’introduzione ad Une Européenne en Perse, sottolinea con 
orgoglio la difficolta di viaggiare come donna sola; ad ogni buon conto, comunque, 
fin dall’inizio del viaggio, si mette alla ricerca di protezione da parte delle autorita. 
La motivazione della visita in Persia, dopo il viaggio in Russia seguito a quello 
nei paesi baltici, é la necessita di rimettersi da “una grave malattia” con un soggiorno 
in un clima mite. Diretta verso la costa della Persia, dal Mar Caspio raggiunge 
via mare e poi via terra il luogo da dove partono le carovane per Teheran. Qui 
inizia il viaggio vero e proprio, a dorso di mulo, attraverso i villaggi dell’interno, 
fino alla capitale. Il racconto del percorso é dedicato in gran parte alla descrizione 
delle peripezie nel rapporto con una coppia di francesi (uncancelliere d’ambasciata 


34. “Cercai invano di tergiversare e rifiutare il ruolo di oracolo che sembrava mi venisse 
offerto; suggerii invano che questioni cosi serie e complesse non potevano essere chiarite 
in poche parole e neanche in pochi minuti. Senza far caso alle mie difficolta, il pascia ripeteva 
invariabilmente le sue domande. Presi infine la decisione e, armandomi di sicurezza, risposi 
gravemente alcune banalita. I] pascia sembro nondimeno affascinato dalla profondita e dalla 
chiarezza delle mie opinioni” (p. 89). 


35. “La sostanza degli argomenti non risultava meno assurda e odiosa, a tal punto che fui 
pill volte sul punto di interrompere il patriarca. Mi limitai a compiangere dentro di me il 
popolo presso cui simili uomini sono onorati come modelli di virtu” (p. 40). 


316 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


e sua moglie) i quali inizialmente le offrono protezione, in quanto cittadina italiana, 
ma poi cercano in ogni modo di liberarsi di lei,*° lasciandola in balia della 
prepotenza dei mulattieri. Arrivata a Teheran, falliscono i suoi tentativi di ottenere 
ascolto dalla delegazione francese a cui ufficiosamente é affidata la protezione dei 
sudditi italiani in Persia. La delegazione della Russia, paese dal quale la Serena 
aveva ottenuto il passaporto per il viaggio, non la riceve con maggiore calore e 
solo gli inglesi le offrono una tiepida accoglienza. Dal momento dell’ arrivo in poi, 
Serena sembra trovarsi al centro di un intrigo internazionale e arriva ad essere 
sospettata dal governo persiano di essere una spia inglese.*” Priva del necessario 
visto per ripartire, ma anche determinata ad ottenere le scuse del governo francese 
e russo, passa I’inverno a Teheran, ignorata da francesi e da russie tenuta a distanza 
dagli inglesi, inviando richieste di intervento ed appelli ai rappresentanti dei vari 
governi europei a Londra.** Riesce alla fine ad ottenere una lettera di benestare 
dal cancelliere dello zar che la raccomanda alla delegazione russa a Teheran 
garantendole il visto sul passaporto e puod fare cosi ritorno in Inghilterra attraverso 
la Russia. 


Sia nel testo di Amalia Solla Nizzoli che in quello di Cristina di Belgioioso 
la voce narrante é la prima persona. L’“io” di Amalia, perOd, é sempre circoscritto 
all’interno della sua posizione di figlia, nipote e moglie. L’autrice non si attribuisce 
autorevolezza e la scelta della scrittura é, per lo meno apparentemente, interna ad 
una tradizione diaristica. Con una excusatio molto femminile, nell’introduzione 
alle Memorie insiste infatti sul loro carattere privato: 


Le presenti memorie che non senza battiti di cuore oso presentarvi, 0 benevoli 
Lettori, io non ebbi mai in pensiero che un giorno dovessero vedere la luce. 
Troppo giovinetta ancora quando giunsi la prima volta in Egitto . . . Continuai 
in seguito a raccogliere notizie che parevanmi degne di attenzione per lasciarle 
un giorno, qual ricordo, a mia figlia. Né il pensiero mi passo pel capo giammai 
di cavarne il materiale di un libro, e per essere impresa troppo ardua per me, priva 
delle necessarie cognizioni, e perché non supponeva |’argomento abbastanza 
interessante. (p. xiv) 


36. Da quello che la Serena racconta viene pero il sospetto che l’atteggiamento dei francesi 
non sia del tutto ingiustificato. 


37. Nel periodo del viaggio di Carla Serena regnava (dal 1848) in Persia lo Shah Nasser 
Edin. Dopo fasi alterne di rapporti con la Russia e l’Inghilterra, la Russia sembrava aver 
affermato - attraverso consistenti aiuti militari - la sua egemonia nel paese. Oltre alla 
delegazione russa ed inglese erano presenti a Teheran anche le delegazioni della Francia 
e Turchia. I rapporti conflittuali tra questi paesi spiegherebbero le peripezie della Serena 
e il sospetto di spionaggio a favore dell’Inghilterra. 


38. Nonostante la fama di pericolosita da cui dice di essere circondata, la Serena viene pero 


invitata a visitare il “ Thekié” (il Serraglio) reale. 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 317 


Amalia spiega poi di aver scritto il libro solo perché incoraggiata da “uomini colti 
e imparziali”, a cui si era decisa a far leggere le sue note sotto lo stimolo della 
curiosita dimostrata da tutti, “specialmente sui costumi delle donne orientali e sugli 
harem”. 

La voce narrante nel diario di Cristina di Belgioioso @ invece quella di un “io” 
molto marcato, che si attribuisce sin dall’inizio l’autorevolezza della conoscenza, 
presentata non come semplice esperienza diretta di quei paesi e di aspetti a cui ha 
accesso solo una donna (come gia la Nizzoli aveva sottolineato), ma anche e 
sopratutto come capacita, in base agli elementi forniti da tale conoscenza, di fare 
delle valutazioni ed esprimere dei giudizi, spesso contrapposti a quelli di altri, come 
avviene nell’introduzione: 


Forse isolare alcuni episodi di quell’epoca della mia vita bastera a giustificare la 
preferenza con cui ancor oggi il mio pensiero ritorna ad essi. Mostreranno anche, 
attraverso alcuni dei loro tratti essenziali, la fisionomia delle popolazioni che questo 
viaggio mi ha permesso di osservare e di cui i racconti fino ad oggi pubblicati 
mi avevano dato solo un’idea molto inesatta. 

La Siria che ho visitato, per esempio, non assomiglia affatto alla Siria che avevo 
visto nei libri. E vero che ero in posizione privilegiata rispetto alla maggior parte 
dei viaggiatori e che potevo conoscere un aspetto molto importante della societa 
musulmana — l’aspetto domestico, quello in cui domina la donna. L’harem, questo 
santuario maomettano, ermeticamente chiuso a tutti gli uomini, mi era aperto. Vi 
potevo penetrare liberamente; potevo conversare con quegli esseri misteriosi che 
l’europeo intravede solo velati, interrogare alcune di quelle anime che non si aprono 
mai, e stimolarle a confidenze preziose su tutto un mondo sconosciuto di passioni 
e di pene. I racconti dei viaggiatori, incompleti per quello che riguarda la civilta 
musulmana, lo sono d’altronde molto spesso per quel che riguarda la natura e 
l’aspetto materiale dei luoghi. (pp. 21-22) 


Molto spesso, nel corso della narrazione, la principessa prende infatti le distanze 
dalla letteratura di viaggio sull’oriente, sottolineando diversita tra le sue descrizioni 
e quelle di altri e dando consigli ad aspiranti viaggiatori.” 

Anche in Carla Serena c’é una forte coscienza del proprio io, ma la narrazione 
é in terza persona.” E interessante notare, inoltre, come spesso ci sia una 


39. “Non andro oltre nel mio tentativo di riabilitare la vita abbastanza faticosa che ogni 
viaggiatore deve accettare in Oriente; mi limiterd a dire: non visitate la Siria in luglio, né 
1’Asia Minore in inverno; rischiereste l’apoplessia o il congelamento. Scegliete un’epoca 
favorevole, prendete un buon cavallo di cui regolerete |’andatura a vostro piacimento, 
lanciatevi attraverso le montagne o sulle spiagge bagnate dal Mediterraneo, poi ditemi se 
una cavalcata di otto ore al giorno fatta in tali condizioni non vale mille volte le lunghe 
giornate del turista portato a spasso da una confortevole berlina sulle migliori strade 
dell’Europa” (p. 124). 


40. Nella dedica ai lettori l’autrice specifica: “Les Persans, peu versés en géographie, 
nomment indistinctement tous les Européens Frenghis. Je me désigne comme j’ai été désignée 


318 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


transizione dal femminile (“voyageuse”) al maschile (“voyageur”): quando fa 
considerazioni generali sul viaggio e sul paese usa il maschile, ma passa di nuovo 
al femminile quando si riferisce alla propria condizione di “femme seule”, e 
soprattutto quando (come in De la Baltique a la Mer Caspienne), si rivolge alle 
“lettrici” con discorsi pid frivoli (ad esempio parlando della moda locale e del 
proprio abbigliamento). 

Spiegando come ha iniziato a scrivere, cioé con un articolo occasionale su un 
giornale di Londra e ottenendo poi la nomina di membro corrispondente della Societa 
Geografica francese, sottolinea: “Ce second diplome me donne une fois de plus 
l’assurance que le travail des femmes ne reste pas toujours sans récompense” .*! 
Con un passaggio un po’ sconcertante, pero, nell’epilogo dello stesso libro, dopo 
un omaggio alla regina Margherita e un’apologia della civilta europea, conclude: 


Mon récit apprendra aux Européennes que bier. des satisfactions m’ont eté données. 
Mais ici j’avoue que la plus vive est la pensée de revoir mon foyer, car c’est la 
vraie place de la femme. Femmes, restez-y et lisez 14 Mon Voyage. (p. 358) 


Nei tre testi esaminati nell’ambito di una struttura narrativa che si richiama 
a quella canonica del diario di viaggio é presente una varieta di temi e di motivi. 
Anche se da parte di tutte e tre le autrici é esplicito l’intento di dare un quadro dei 
paesi visitati e di fornire elementi di descrizione geografica, storica, sociale e 
culturale, lo spazio e l’approfondimento che viene dato a questi diversi aspetti varia 
da un libro all’altro. 

In Amalia Nizzoli la descrizione dell’Egitto appare sempre piuttosto didascalica 
e il racconto dell’esperienza personale rimane spesso staccato dalle altre parti della 
narrazione, talvolta un po’ atona; i luoghi solo poche volte sono rivisitati con lo 
sguardo della giovane ragazza (ancora una bambina) che per la prima volta aveva 
incontrato un mondo cosi diverso e strano rispetto a quello dolorosamente lasciato 
alle spalle. Dopo il matrimonio, inoltre, la vita di Amalia appare fortemente 
condizionata dal ruolo e dagli interessi del marito, consolare e appassionato di 
“antichita””. Le amicizie altolocate di Nizzoli (“il nobile signor Peruzzi”, “1’ottimo 
cavaliere professor Brocchi”, “il console Acerbi”, “il conte Dandolo”) compaiono 
ripetutamente nel corso della narrazione, anche con trascrizioni (alquanto noiose) 


par eux. La Frenghi, c’est moi,—les aventures sont les miennes”. 
41. De la Baltique a la mer Caspienne, p. 357. 


42. Anche nel coinvolgimento negli interessi del marito é sempre ribadito il senso della 
propria inadeguatezza. Parlando degli scavi commissionati dal marito a Menfi, scrive: “Troppo 
avrei a dire, se narrar volessi cid che ho veduto con i miei propri occhi, intorno alle 
meravigliose cose che lasciarono quelle antiche generazioni, ma poiché non é mio assunto 
di entrare in materia letteraria né archeologica, spettando ai soli dotti e studiosi parlarne, 
io non posso che limitarmi alla semplice esposizione dei miei scavi, che nei primi tempi 
in vero non venivano coronati da verun buon successo” (p. 235). 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 319 


di lettere indirizzate alla “gentilissima Signora”. Nel diario di Cristina di Belgioioso 
lo sguardo che osserva la realta circostante (luoghi, persone e persino animali,” 
con la loro storia e le loro storie) riesce invece a fondere la materia narrata e a 
riportarla sempre alla concretezza e passione dell’esperienza individuale. Lo sguardo 
di Carla Serena, giornalisticamente distaccato, pili che sugli abitanti e sulla realta 
del luogo si sofferma invece sui complicati rapporti tra 1 personaggi della comunita 
europea e tra questi e l’aristocrazia persiana. 

Nonostante le notevoli differenze di scelte narrative, appare chiaro perd che 
tutti e tre gli scritti rispecchiano un punto di vista sui luoghi visitati e sulle persone 
incontrate che é strettamente intrecciato alla (diversa) percezione di sé come 
donne/occidentali. L’“identita sessuata” delle autrici é quindi un elemento 
imprescindibile che entra in gioco anche nella struttura dell’opera e nella scelta degli 
argomenti, soprattutto nella trattazione del tema dell’harem, che negli scritti di 
Amalia Nizzoli e di Cristina di Belgioioso (per loro esplicita dichiarazione) é 
l’oggetto principale della narrazione. 

In contrasto con il richiamo del titolo, perd, in Memorie sull’Egitto e 
specialmente sui costumi delle donne orientali sia gli harem che i “costumi delle 
donne” non sembrano costituire l’oggetto fondamentale dell’attenzione della Nizzoli. 
Nonostante che Amalia abbia appreso I’arabo e si sia dovuta adeguare ad alcune 
regole locali (ad esempio andare in giro coperta), la sua vita quotidiana di donna 
occidentale rimane separata da quella delle donne orientali. Gli harem che Amalia 
visita—in definitiva solo due: quello cioé del “Defterdarbey” della cui corte lo zio 
di Amalia era medico e quello di un generale turco—sono harem aristocratici, e 
il lusso nella ricchezza degli ornamenti e negli abiti delle donne corrisponde 
all’immagine, tutta splendori e profumi, prevalente nella fantasia europea del periodo: 


Quella specie di corte orientale di donne offriva un bellissimo spettacolo; eravi 
una riunione di sessanta e pill schiave di varie nazioni, greche, giorgiane, circasse, 
tutte giovani e belle, e abbigliate vagamente con abiti sfarzosi a vari colori, 
tempestati di gioie e di perle. Avevano le loro chiome sciolte sugli omeri, e da 
ogni loro atteggiamento traspiravano grazie incantatrici. Quelle magnifiche sale, 
poste sopra un delizioso giardino, lastricate di marmi finissimi e rinfrescate da 
zampilli d’acqua che scaturivano da un elegante bacino nel mezzo, popolate da 
tante belle e vispe giovani, facevano correre il pensiero ad una di quelle feste da 
ballo che sovente si vedono rappresentate, quantunque meno sfarzosamente, sui 
nostri teatri. (p. 185) 


43. Acutissime e divertenti sono le descrizioni del comportamento degli animali turchi, 
come quella in cui Cristina parla della dolcezza dei contadini turchi nei confronti delle loro 
bestie, mai costrette con la forza a fare qualcosa, ma convinte con discorsi: “E’ curioso 
sentire la gente del paese conversare con gli animali. Parlano a ciascuno nella sua lingua, 
cioé rivolgono ad ogni animale o meglio ad ogni specie un certo numero di parole che non 
hanno alcun senso preciso tra gli uomini, ma che questi animali capiscono molto bene. . 
. animale risponde a modo suo” (pp. 51-52). 


320 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


Le “principesse” conosciute da Amalia sono tutte “bellissime” e i loro interessi 
e la loro conversazione del tutto frivoli. Quello che si coglie comunque in queste 
descrizioni é un atteggiamento un po’ duplice: da una parte Amalia, che vive in 
una ristretta cerchia occidentale in cui si conservano regole e comportamenti europei, 
appare molto conscia del suo ruolo di “nipote del medico” e di “moglie del 
consolare”, e della sua femminilita, dall’altra lascia trasparire, a volte, un senso 
quasi di invidia per una vita che, pur all’interno della clausura dell’harem, sembra 
conservare degli aspetti di gioco e di divertimento.“ In particolare suscita molta 
ilarita nelle signore egiziane una visita in cui le tre donne (madre, zia e Amalia) 
Si presentano vestite all’europea, tanto che la volta successiva Amalia decide, 
sentendosi molto pit a suo agio, di vestirsi alla turca.*? I rapporti della Nizzoli 
con donne orientali sembrano quindi esaurirsi in questo ristretto ambito di visite 
tra signore; le uniche altre donne a cui fa cenno sono schiave e balie, nei confronti 
delle quali non risparmia giudizi molto duri. 

In Cristina di Belgioioso il tema dell’harem e della realta delle donne orientali 
é invece il fulcro della narrazione.*° Fin dall’inizio la principessa spiega che la 
parola harem non corrisponde a una realta uniforme*’ e infatti gli harem da lei 


44. “Fu in quelle visite ch’io potei poscia convincermi da me stessa, quanto fosse erroneo 
il supporre, come fanno taluni, che le donne turche siano infelici. Non conoscendo esse altro 
di meglio, ed avvezze a quel genere di vita cui furono fino dall’infanzia educate, non possono 
bramare piaceri ignoti. D’altra parte, oltre la suprema felicita che fanno ragionevolmente 
consistere nell’avere prole e divenire affettuose madri, non mancano di passatempi, come 
sono la danza, il canto, le partite ai bagni che vengono considerate come il pit! gran sollazzo, 
le passeggiate nei giardini, le corse sul fiume entro bellissime cangie, il lusso del vestire: 
perfino 1’ozio é considerato come uno dei piaceri della vita” (pp. 194-195). 


45. Al racconto delle visite all’ harem fa da appendice la storia, un po’ romanzata, della 
moglie del Bey, venduta da giovanetta come schiava ad un sultano e da lui successivamente 
data in sposa al Bey. Un altro capitolo é dedicato alla descrizione di una visita ai bagni 
pubblici e di una festa con spettacolo di ballerine a casa del Bey. II tutto appare un po’ una 
“summa” di quello che un pubblico di lettori europei si aspettava di trovare nella descrizione 
dei “costumi delle donne orientali”. 


46. Sul rapporto tra Cristina di Belgioioso e le donne orientali ho scritto pid ampiamente 
nel saggio: “‘Se vi avessi avuta per compagna...’: rapporti tra donne negli scritti e nelle 
lettere dall’ Oriente di Cristina Trivulzio di Belgioioso” (in corso di pubblicazione in /talian 


Culture, XII, 1994). 


47. “Poiché l’harem é una delle istituzioni pit misteriose della societa turca, forse non 
sembrera inopportuno che io mi soffermi ancora una volta su questo argomento. La parola 
harem designa un’entita complessa e multiforme. C’é l’harem del povero, quello della classe 
media e del gran signore, l’harem di provincia el’harem della capitale, quello della campagna 
e quello della citta, del giovane e del vecchio, del pio musulmano che rimpiange il vecchio 
regime e del musulmano libero pensatore, scettico, amante delle riforme e abbigliato 
all’occidentale. Ognuno di questi harem ha il suo carattere particolare, il suo grado di 
importanza, i suoi usi e le sue abitudini. I] meno strano di tutti, quello che si avvicina 
maggiormente ad un onesto ménage cristiano, é l’harem del povero abitante della campagna” 


(p. 100). 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento S21 


visitati sono tra di loro molto diversi. Nelle maggior parte di questi non compaiono 
le gemme e gli ori descritti da Amalia Nizzoli; appare invece, anche in quelli di 
persone altolocate, un aspetto certamente ignoto alla letteratura orientalista, quello 
di luoghi squallidi, rumorosi e sporchi:* 


Distruggo forse qualche illusione parlando con cosi poco rispetto degli harem. 
Abbiamo letto descrizioni degli harem nelle Mille e una notte e in altri racconti 
orientali; ci é stato detto che in questi luoghi abitano la bellezza e gli amori: siamo 
autorizzati a credere che le descrizioni pubblicate, benché esagerate e abbellite, 
siano comunque basate sulla realta, e che in questi misteriosi ritiri si debbano 
trovare riunite tutte le meraviglie del lusso, dell’arte, della magnificenza e della 
volutta. Quanto siamo lontani dal vero! Immaginate muri anneriti e screpolati, 
soffitti in legno con crepe qua e 1a e coperti di polvere e di tele di ragno, sofa 
strappati e unti, cortine a brandelli, tracce di candela e di olio ovunque. (p. 34) 


Nonostante |’avversione per la claustrofobia di questi ambienti, l’atteggiamento di 
Cristina nei confronti delle donne dell’harem e di quelle che incontra in altre 
circostanze, @ perd sempre di curiosita e di capacita di cogliere cosa c’é dietro 
l’apparenza. Nell’incontro con la favorita del Bey di Giaur-Daghda, ad esempio, 
osserva: 


Rimaste sole, depose la sua maschera di scontrosa timidezza e chiacchierO per 
un po’ senza il minimo imbarazzo. Mi fece molte domande sui nostri usi, che le 
sembravano bizzarri e insieme buffi, a giudicare dai suoi scoppi di risa. . . . Ero 
tuttavia convinta che la mia bella ospite non fosse poi cosi limitata come voleva 
credere il marito, vedendo |’interesse che manifestava per una moltitudine di cose 
che non la riguardavanoe la perseveranza con cui mi chiedeva il perché di ognuna. 


(p. 117) 


La preoccupazione di come comportarsi e di cosa dire é sempre risolta dalla 
principessa attraverso la voglia di mettersi in relazione all’altra, usando i codici 
di comunicazione appresi nei tre anni di soggiorno in quei paesi, come appare 
nell’incontro con una delle mogli dello stesso pascia, che, a differenza delle altre, 
noné circondata da figli. Quando la principessa chiede perché i suoi figli non siano 
con lei, le altre mogli le fanno sapere, con aria di enorme soddisfazione, che non 
ne ha‘: 


Rimpiansi di aver toccato un tasto cosi delicato e, per attenuare l’effetto della mia 


48. “Il mio vecchio mufti, che all’eta di novant’anni ha parecchie mogli, la pil anziana 
delle quali ha trent’anni, e figli di ogni eta, dal marmocchio di sei mesi al sessantenne, 
manifesta una ripugnanza di buon gusto per il baccano, il disordine e la sporcizia dell’harem. 
Ci va durante il giorno, come va nella scuderia per vedere i suoi cavalli, ma abita e dorme, 
a seconda della stagione, nell’uno o nell’altro dei suoi saloni” (p. 33). 


49. “In Oriente non c’é niente di pid vituperato, pill disprezzato, pill negletto, di una donna 
sterile” (p. 120). 


322 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


imprudenza, aggiunsi non indovinerete mai cosa. Avrei dato prova della brutalita 
pit odiosa se mi fossi rivolta a qualsiasi altra donna che non fosse |’abitante di 
un harem; ma ero in Asia da tre anni, e conoscevo abbastanza bene il terreno su 
cui mi muovevo. Dissi adunque, prendendo un’aria di confidenza e di approvazione, 
come se cid che stavo per dire dovesse per forza mettere fine all’imbarazzo della 
bella turcomanna e ridarle dignita: “I bambini della signora sono morti, vero? (p. 
120) 


Il rapporto con le donne orientali si sviluppa nel corso del viaggio e la 
“simpatia” di Cristina nei loro confronti, insieme alla percezione dell’intensita di 
carattere di queste forzate (ma talvolta anche volontarie) recluse, é pienamente 
espressa nei racconti di Scénes de la vie turque, storie di donne incontrate durante 
il suo soggiorno in Asia Minore. Con un forse non involontari effetto simbolico 
ultimo dei racconti, “Les deux femmes d’Ismail Bey”, si conclude con la vendetta, 
concordata tra le due mogli, sul marito imbroglione e infedele. 

In Carla Serena lo spazio dedicato all’harem é molto limitato.” Nell’epoca 
in cui esce Mon Voyage, questo tema ha probabilmente perso un po’ della sua 
attrazione, anche se il topos, ormai codificato, non pud mancare in un diario di 
viaggio in Oriente. In De la Baltique a la Mer Caspienne Vargomento non é 
particolarmente sviluppato*! e nel resoconto sulla Persia la descrizione del palazzo 
della favorita del sovrano non sembra distaccarsi molto da quelle canoniche della 
letteratura sugli harem, mentre pit realistica é quella della favorita. L’incontro 
tra le due donne si risolve in una conversazione tutta femminile sui vestiti>® e sulle 
doti del sovrano, che partecipa brevemente alla visita e si intrattiene in conversazione 
con la straniera. Lungi dal mostrare l’ironia della principessa sull’ingenuita della 


50. Almeno in Une Européenne en Perse; di Souvenirs de Voyage fa parte anche il volume 
Hommes et choses de la Perse, purtroppo introvabile. 


51. “Je fus mise en relation avec plusieurs hauts dignitaires turcs dont je connus les familles. 
Parmi elles, celle du grand vizir Mahmoud-Pasha. Ce qui me permit de voir de prés la vie 
des femmes turques. Je fus invitée a passer plusieurs jours avec elles dans les ‘mistérieux 
harems’, dépeints souvent d’une maniére peu véridique, par ceux qui n’y ont jamais pénetré 
et dont l’accés n’est pas toujours facile pur une étrangére. Mon entrée dans le monde 
musulman me fit également voir le palais du sultan. Mais je fus désenchantée des uns comme 
des autres. Le luxe du palais ot rien ne révéle la vie intellectuelle ne me ravit point. Le 
temps passé dans les somptueux harems me parut sans charme, je respirai 4 peine dans ces 
appartements privés d’air et de jour” (p. 79). 


52. “Comme s’en vante Aniséh el Dowleh, sa taille a la forme du melon. Sa jupe écourtée 
laisse voir des formes masculines. Sa voix est male, et le douvet touffu qui orne sa lévre 
supérieure, ajoute un trait de plus 4 sa physionomie virile. Ses yeux brillantes sont surmontés 
d’une longue ligne noire d’une tempe a I’autre en forme de sourcil. Ses cils noircis, le blanc, 
le rouge dont son visage est couvert, lui donnent I’aspect d’une figure de poupée grossiérement 
peinte” (p. 214). 


53. “La conversation caractérisa les pensées. Par ce qui fuit traduit des paroles de la favorite, 
l’étrangére conclut qu’en tout pays, celles des femmes sont pour la toilette” (p. 213). 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 323 


conversazione di certi sultani, la Serena appare deliziata dalle attenzioni che sia 
la favorita che lo Shah le dimostrano. Se si eccettua un inserto romanzato sulla 
vita di una fiorista parigina arrivata da giovane in Persia e ben accolta alla corte 
dello Shah, Carla Serena non dedica molto interesse alle donne orientali. 


L’analisi dei “diari” di Amalia Nizzoli, Cristina di Belgioioso e Carla Serena mette 
in evidenza, pill che somiglianze, molte differenze, sia nel tipo di viaggi intrapresi 
che nel tono e nelle scelte narrative di chi li descrive. Almeno un aspetto, pero, 
sembra accomunarle e distaccarle dalla letteratura orientalista “al maschile” , ed 
& una descrizione degli harem che smitizza l’immagine “orientalista” di questi luoghi 
come paradisi di sensualita e di volutta. La diversita di immagini che circolano 
nei tre testi e la diversa “strategic location” in cui si collocano le viaggiatrici-autrici 
appare invece legata non solo ad una differente percezione della realta delle donne 
orientali, ma anche di se stesse come donne/occidentali. Se dunque noné possibile 
dare una risposta conclusiva alla domanda iniziale (“esiste un viaggio/una scrittura 
di viaggio al femminile?” ), un elemento significativo sembra pero confermato ed 
& quello della complessita e della “indecifrabilita a dispetto della apparente 
leggibilita” (Mills) della narrativa di viaggio prodotta dalle donne. E forse proprio 
in questo e nella stessa diversita dei tre diari di viaggio che si pud, paradossalmente, 
individuarne la specificita. I] punto di vista “al femminile” emerge con decisione 
dal diario di Cristina di Belgioioso, mentre i testi di Amalia Nizzoli e Carla Serena 
lasciano trasparire una “gender ambiguity” dietro la quale si intravedono le 
“discursive pressures” di cui parla la Mills nel suo saggio. 

La lettura di questi scritti—essa stessa un viaggio i cui percorsi si diramano 
€ si intrecciano—pone domande a cui di volta in volta non si pud dare una risposta 
se non ripartendo da questa complessita e provando a scoprire tra le righe la valenza 
simbolica dei viaggi in rapporto alla identita sessuata delle donne che li hanno 
intrapresi. 

New York University 


TESTI CITATI E BIBLIOGRAFIA 


1. TESTI DI VIAGGIO 


Bell Lowthian, Gertrude, Syria: The Desert and the Sown. London, 1907. 

Belgioioso, Cristina Trivulzio, “Souvenirs dans |’Exile” in Le National (sett.- ott. 1850). 

—— —, “La vie intime et la vie nomade en Orient”, Revue des Deux Mondes (febb.- sett. 
1855). 

—— —., Vila intima e vita nomade in oriente. Como: Ibis, 1993. 

———, Asie Mineure et Syrie: souvenirs de Voyage. Paris: Lévy Fréres, 1858. 

———, Scénes de la vie turque. Paris: Lévy Fréres, 1858. 

———, Oriental Harems and Scenery. New York: Carleton, 1862. 

Bird, Isabella, Journeys in Persia and Curdistan. London, 1891. 


324 MIRELLA SCRIBONI 


———, The Englishwoman in America. London, 1856. 

———., A Lady’s Life in the Rocky Mountains. London, 1879. 

—— —, The Yangtze Valley and Beyond. London, 1899. 

Blunt, Lady Anne, A Pilgrimage to the Nejd. London, 1881. 

———, Bedouin Tribes of the Euphrates. London, 1879. 

Burton, Lady Isabel, The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine and the Holy Land. London, 1875. 

Burton, Sir Richard, Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah. London, 
1893. 

Chateaubriand, René de, /tinéraire de Paris a Jérusalem. Paris, 1827. 

Craven, Lady Elizabeth, A Journey through the Crimea to Constantinople. London, 1789. 

De Amicis, Edmondo, Costantinopoli. Milano: Treves, 1877-1878. 

De Gasparin, contessa [Valerie Boissier], Journal d’un voyage du Levant (1847-1848). Paris, 
1849. 

Duff-Gordon, Lucie. Letters from Egypt, 1862-1869. New York: Praeger, 1969. 

Edwards, Amelia, A Thousand Miles up the Nile. London 1877. 

Fuller, Margaret, At Home and Abroad. New York: Kennicat Press, 1971. 

Gautier, Théophile, L’Orvient. Paris, 1854. 

Kinglake, A. W., Eothen. London, 1844. 

Lamartine, Alphonse de, Voyage en Orient. Paris, 1835. 

Loti, Pierre, Au Maroc. Paris, 1890. 

Martineau, Harriet. Eastern Life, Past and Present. London, 1848. 

Nightingale, Florence, Letters from Egypt. A Journey on the Nile 1849-1850. London: Barrie 
& Jenkins, 1987. 

Nizzoli(Solla), Amalia, Memorie sull’Egitto especialmente sui costumi delle donne orientali. 
Milano: Tipografia e Libreria Pirotta e C., 1841. 

Pfeiffer, Ida, Visit to the Holy Land, Egypt and Italy. London, 1851. 

Serao, Matilde, Nel paese di Gesu. Ricordi di un viaggio in Palestina. Firenze: Tipografia 
di Salvatore Landi, 1900. 

Serena, Carla, Mon Voyage (Souvenirs personnels): De la Baltique a la Mer Caspienne. 
Paris: Maurice Dreyfus, 1880. 

———, Mon Voyage (Souvenirs Personels): Une Européenne en Perse. Paris: Maurice 
Dreyfus, 1881. 

Sheldon, Mary, Sultan to Sultan. Adventures Among the Masai and Other Tribes of East 
Africa, London, 1892. 

Stanhope, Lady Hester, Travels of Lady Hester Stanhope; Forming the Completion of her 
Memoirs. Narrated by her physician. London, 1846. 

Steegmuller, Francis (ed.), Flaubert in Egypt: A Sensibility on Tour. Boston: Little, Brown 
& Co., 1973. 

Stoppani, Antonio, Da Milano a Damasco: Ricordo di una carovana milanese nel 1874, 
Milano, 1888. 

Wortley Montagu, Lady Mary (ed. Murphy Dervla), Embassy to Constantinople: The Travels 
of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu. New York: New Amsterdam Books, 1988. 


2. OPERE SUL VIAGGIO E SU VIAGGIATORI/VIAGGIATRICI 


Amat di San Filippo, Pietro, Bibliografia dei viaggiatori italiani. Roma: Salviucci, 1874. 


Il viaggio al femminile nell’Ottocento 325 


Birkett, Dea, Spinsters Abroad: Victorian Lady Explorers. Oxford: Blackwell, 1989. 

Borghi, Liana, Nicoletta Livi Bacci, Uta Treder (ed.), Viaggio e Scrittura: Le straniere 
nell’Italia dell’Ottocento. Firenze: Libreria delle Donne, 1987. 

Branca, Gaetano, “I viaggiatori italiani del nostro secolo”, Bollettino della Societa Geografica 
Italiana (II [1869], 251-344; III [1870], 317-409). 

Foster, Shirley, Across New Worlds. Nineteenth-Century Women Travellers and Their 
Writings. London: Harvester Wheatsheaf, 1990. 

Grimley Mason, Mary e Carol Hurd Green (eds), Journeys, Autobiographical Writings by 
Women. Boston: G. K. Hall, 1979. 

Manzoni, Romeo, Gli esuli italiani in Svizzera (da Foscolo a Mazzini). Milano, 1922. 

Michel, Ersilio, Esuli italiani in Egitto (1815-1861). Pisa, 1958. 

Middleton, Dorothy, Victorian Lady Travellers. London: Routhledge, 1965. 

Mills, Sara, Discourses of Difference: An analysis of Women’s Travel and Colonialism. 
London and New York: Routhledge, 1991. 


Scriboni, Mirella, “‘Se vi avessi avuto per compagna...’: rapporti tra donne nelle lettere 
e negli scritti dall’Oriente di Cristina Trivulzio di Belgioioso”, Italian Culture, XII 
(1994). 


———, “Cristina di Belgioioso”, Leggere Donna, n. 50 (1994). 
Trassell, C. “Esuli italiani in Turchia nel dodicennio 1849-1860”, in La Sicilia nel 
Risorgimento italiano (gennaio-giugno 1933). 


ALTRE OPERE CITATE 


Alloula, Malek, The Colonial Harem. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1989. 

Bandini Buti, Maria, Poetesse e scrittrici. Roma, 1942. 

Cappuccio, Carmelo (ed.), Memorialisti dell’Ottocento. Milano: 1955. 

Croutier, Alev Lyle, Harem, the World Behind the Veil. New York: Abbeville Press, 1989. 

De Giorgio, Michela, Le italiane dall’Unita ad oggi. Bari: Laterza, 1992. 

Fuller, Margaret, Woman in the Nineteenth Century. New Uork, London: Norton, 1971. 

Graham-Brown, Sarah, Images of Women. New York: Columbia University Press, 1988. 

Hugo, Victor, Les Orientales. Paris: M. Didier, 1952-1954. 

Mangione, Jerre e Ben Morreale, La Storia: Five Centuries of the Italian American 
Experience. New York: HarperCollins Publishers, 1992. 

Marchesa Colombi, Un matrimonio di provincia. Torino: Einaudi, 1973. 

Moers, Ellen, Literary Women. London: The Women’s Press, 1978. 

Montesquieu, Baron de, Lettres Persanes. Paris: Gallimard, 1973. 

Neera, Teresa. Torino: Einaudi, 1976. 

Said, Edward W., Orientalism. New York: Vintage Books, 1979. 

Serao, Matilde, Addio amore! Roma: Edizioni delle Donne, 1977. 

———, Castigo. Roma: Edizioni delle Donne, 1977. 

Saredo, Luisa, Racconti. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1878. 

Voltaire, Zadig: ou, La Destinée, histoire orientale. Paris: M. Didier, 1962. 


LUCIANO PARISI 


I libri di viaggio 
di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 


Nei romanzi di Borgese i frequenti viaggi dei protagonisti sono dettati da inquietudine 
spirituale. Rubé é incapace di vivere nello stesso luogo per pit di qualche mese 
e la sua storia si sposta dal Cadore alla Sicilia, da Roma a Parigi, e, con una serie 
ravvicinata di spostamenti, a Stresa, Roma, Arezzo, Calinni, Napoli, Bologna. 
Il rimorso e un amore inconfessato sottraggono Eliseo Gaddi al suo rifugio campestre 
nella pianura padana portandolo a Milano e a Venezia. Quei viaggi sono sintomi 
di malessere; non nascono dal desiderio di vedere posti nuovie di incontrare gente 
nuova, ma segnalano, senza realizzarlo, un bisogno di cambiamento interiore’. 
Il tema del viaggio ha una maggiore autonomia nei racconti di Borgese; alcuni di 
essi sono pretesti per rievocare gli “uomini impellicciati e barbuti” incontrati dallo 
scrittore sulle rive del Baltico (P.342) o “il grigiore del Nord e la stranezza 
dell’ Oriente” colte contemporaneamente in una citta misteriosa (P.121). Nei racconti 
il viaggio é l’impegno mondano che terrorizza un tranquillo impiegato (P.203-216) 
o loccasione autobiografica per una riflessione di natura religiosa (P.380-385); 
anche li comunque non si afferma come tema di fondo. II titolo complessivo della 
raccolta, Il pellegrino appassionato, pit che al contenuto delle storie, si riferisce 
alla condizione biografica del loro autore. Pellegrino Borgese era stato dal 1906 
al 1908, vivendo in Germania come corrispondente estero per dei quotidiani italiani, 
e aveva ripreso ad esserlo nel 1931 per un periodo che sarebbe stato lunghissimo: 
lavoro in California nel 1931 e nel 1932, in Massachusetts dal ’32 al ’36, e in Illinois 
dal 1936 al 1948. Questi prolungati soggiorni all’estero gli permisero di scrivere 
il primo e l’ultimo dei suoi libri di viaggio: La nuova Germania (1909) e Atlante 
americano (1936). Fra l’uno e l’altro, e in un periodo di tempo relativamente breve, 


1. Rubé é il protagonista del romanzo omonimo; Eliseo Gaddi quello del secondo romanzo 
di Borgese, / vivi e i morti. La loro condizione ha uno sfondo autobiografico nelle poesie 
della “Trilogia del viaggio” dove lo scrittore afferma di essersi “sempre sradicato prima 
di fiorire” (Ps 108). — Nel prosieguo user6 le seguenti sigle per riferirmi alle opere di 
Borgese da cui avro bisogno di fare citazioni: A (Atlante americano), C (Autunno di 
Costantinopoli), E (Escursione in terre nuove), G (La nuova Germania), Gl (Goliath), Gr 
(Giro lungo per la primavera), L (Lezione di estetica del 2 dicembre 1952), P (Il pellegrino 
appassionato), Ps (Le poesie), R (Rube), S (Storia della critica romantica in Italia), V (La 
vita e il libro). 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


I libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 327 


Borgese compose altri tre volumi che fanno parte dell’ odeporica italiana: Autunno 
di Costantinopoli (1929), Giro lungo per la primavera (1930) ed Escursione in terre 
nuove (1931). 

La nuova Germania fu pubblicato da Bocca. L’editore inaugurava con quel 
volume una collana dedicata ai paesi stranieri. Si rifiutava di inserire in essa le 
trattazioni scientifiche (che a suo parere soffocavano |’essenza di un paese fra tabelle 
e statistiche) e le raccolte d’impressioni (aneddotiche e superficiali). I testi della 
nuova collana miravano a “disegnare un quadro dei sentimenti e della vita di un 
popolo” ed erano scritti da autori che avevano vissuto in un paese straniero “per 
alcuni anni, interessandosi a tutti gli aspetti della sua anima, parlando la sua lingua 
e conoscendo intimamente i suoi uomini” (G.VI). Borgese era l’uomo ideale per 
realizzare almeno la prima parte di un simile progetto. Aveva vissuto in Germania 
per due anni: “due volte per settimana ho inviato lunghe lettere alla Stampa di Torino 
e al Mattino di Napoli . . . Ho dovuto osservar tutto e interessarmi ad ogni cosa. 
Son vissuto non come uno straniero in terra straniera, ma come un figlio adottivo 
della terra che mi ospitava; ho sfuggito i miei connazionali, ed ho frequentato gente 
del paese, di tutte le condizioni e di tutti i mestieri. Ho interrogato, ho ascoltato, 
ho letto” (G.4-5). Il libro sulla Germania, aggiunge, “é il risultato di due anni 
di vita” (G.5). Borgese ripete le affermazioni programmatiche dell’editore: bisogna 
scartare il commento episodico e l’analisi freddamente statistica per tentare invece 
di analizzare l’anima di un popolo. I viaggi, scrive inoltre, sono importanti perché 
scrollano di dosso gli stereotipi con cui una persona guarda agli altri popoli e alle 
loro idee ed abitudini. Bisogna “amare il [proprio] paese senza sputare addosso 
agli stranieri” e “ammirare cid che c’é da ammirare presso gli stranieri, senza 
vilipendere i [propri] connazionali” (G.3). Si va all’estero per imparare, senza 
eccessi di umilta e senza “trovare ad ogni costo la conferma” delle proprie opinioni 
o dei propri pregiudizi (G.10-11). Nell’Europa che stava per essere travolta dalla 
prima guerra mondiale le parole di Borgese risaltano per la ragionevolezza 
cosmopolita con cui sono pronunciate. 

Ma Borgese non é uno scrittore regolare e non é sempre coerente. II testo 
della Nuova Germania contraddice |’introduzione proponendo tutto quello che essa 
aveva escluso con tanta sicurezza: annotazioni impressionistiche, stereotipi, 
pregiudizi. Il paesaggio tedesco é un pretesto metaforico, per un estro singolarmente 
mediterraneo”. In ogni capitolo si trovano luoghi comuni sull’avarizia ebraica, 
la pigrizia polacca, la freddezza inglese, l’insolenza francese, |’insubordinazione 
africana. Benno Geiger ricorda come Borgese redigesse le pagine confluite nel 
libro frettolosamente e con insoddisfazione, “cosciente di mutare in parole stampate, 


2. Unsolo esempio: la vela di una nave sull’Elba “é un cencio tra purpureo e nerastro che 
sembra ad ogni istante annunciare a un invisibile Egeo la morte di un Teseo uccisore di mostri 
polari” (G.449-450). 


328 LUCIANO PARISI 


in opinioni precise, quell{e] che a mensa non erano state che battute effimere, senza 
pretesa di stabilita” (192). Il fenomeno pit difficile da capire ¢ comunque il rigetto 
che Borgese compie di quella civilta tedesca che, per sua stessa ammissione, lo 
aveva accolto calorosamente. La Germania del primo ’900 é uno stato aggressivo 
e antisemita. Ma é anche la nazione dove operano grandi ingegni’*; il processo 
di industrializzazione ne ha fatto lo stato pit ricco d’Europa; la sua legislazione 
sociale é un modello al quale gli altri paesi si ispirano. Tutti gli strati della societa 
tedesca sono percorsi da una inquietudine intellettuale: “Orthodoxy was being 
challanged from all sides—scrive Ryder. — There were radical new creeds and 
cults: socialism in its various forms, anarchism, the cult of race, and Social 
Darwinism ..., feminism and theosophy, the aesthetic movement. The spread of 
education helped the proliferation of new ideas, and cheap printing gave them a 
wide circulation” (24).Davanti a questi sviluppi, e al dibattito di idee che vi si 
connette, Borgese resta scettico, beffardo, senza neppure indagare i motivi del 
proprio dissenso. Non gli piacciono i nuovi palazzi (G.271), le automobili che 
sostituiscono i carri ed i cavalli (G.279- 280), la rapidita esecutiva delle maestranze 
tedesche (G.313). Il porto di Amburgo si riduce per lui ad un’ inutile testimonianza 
della vanita umana (452)*. Liquida con una battuta esperimenti sociali di ovvia 
importanza: una “signorina giovanissima, bellina, che porta un nome di gloria 
europea nella storia dell’elettrotecnica, e che ha tanti milioni da non contarsi sulle 
dita di una mano, ha studiato agricoltura, ha conseguito il suo diploma, e s’é messa 
ad esercitare il mestiere. Un/altra, figlia di un avvocato straricco, lavora cinque 
ore al giorno nello studio di suo padre, copiando a macchina . . . Penetrate, se 
viriesce, in questi abissi psicologici” (G.89). Ride del darwinismo (G.353). Tratta 
con pesante moralismo i movimenti di liberazione omosessuale (G.398). Descrive 
Risveglio di primavera, il capolavoro di Wedekind, come “un dramma di ragazzi 
di scuola, dove ne succedono di tutti i colori” (406). Insisto su questi pregiudizi, 
diffusi nel primo ’900, perché costituiscono esempi della mentalita passiva che 
Borgese suggeriva di scrollare con i viaggi all’estero. Lui stesso, invece, finisce 
con lo stare a Berlino “per trovare ad ogni costo la conferma delle opinioni e dei 
giudizi che circolano nel [suo] paese da cent’anni” (G.10-11)°. 


3. Ryder ricorda fra gli altri Einstein, Koch, Planck, R6ntgen, Liebig, Momsen, Gropius, 
Windelband, Rickert, Max Weber, Troeltsch, Thomas Mann, Rilke e Wedekind. 


4. Il suono di Amburgo “non somiglia ad una sinfonia di Beethoven, ma al brontolio del 
mare germanico” (G.452). Di Berlino scrive Borgese nelle Poesie: “Nella capitale nordica 
dove ho passato una stagione / non ho udito altra musica che quella delle trombe / 
d’automobili echeggianti sorde per le arcate basse / e il fremito angoscioso dei treni 
metropolitani” (Ps.113). 


5. Per la connotazione negativa che i viaggi avevano nell’Italia dell’ ’800 e del primo ’900 
si vedano I’articolo di Musumeci “Of Swallows and Farewells” e il saggio di Barberi Squarotti 
sul tema della partenza e dell’impossibile ritorno in Manzoni, Verga e Pavese (69-81). 


I libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 329 


Nel 1910 Borgese pubblica il primo volume di una vasta raccolta di saggi 
letterari e di recensioni, La vita e il libro. Nella sezione dedicata ai libri di viaggio, 
che porta il titolo Le terre lontane, ritroviamo la stessa contraddizione fra una teoria 
lungimirante che invita al cambiamento di luogo, di speranze, “di favelle e di 
orizzonte per acquistare il senso della molteplicita e della vastita della vita” (V.349), 
e una serie di giudizi angusti ed ostili verso ogni paese straniero. Pur rimproverando 
gli autori contemporanei di soffocare con degli stereotipi la peculiarita dei paesi 
visitati e degli individui incontrati, Borgese ammassa luoghi comuni sulla rozzezza 
del capitalismo americano, |’immoralita delle donne tedesche, ilcarattere selvaggio 
dei giapponesi. Una prima causa di questa contraddizione é 1’atteggiamento 
baldanzoso di Borgese: lo scrittore esibisce idee solide; non rifugge, nel proclamarle, 
dall’ “abuso di voce”, dall’accento “sgarbato” (V.ix); e non si concede riflessioni 
approfondite o momenti di pensosita°. Il suo nazionalismo lo induce poi a ritenere 
antipatriottiche le lodi rivolte ad un paese straniero. Uno scrittore italiano ammira 
l’Inghilterra? “Osservate di quante parole inglesi sia irta questa prosa italiana; 
osservate come |’immagine della patria sia romita dal cuore di questo esule contento, 
e con quanta versatilita egli s’assuefaccia ai costumi del popolo ospitale” (V.368). 
Borgese inoltre maschera con una decisa antipatia il suo sconcerto di fronte ai 
cambiamenti radicali che industrializzazione e tecnologia producono nel mondo 
moderno. La Germania e gli Stati Uniti, i due paesi pit avanzati in questo processo 
ditrasformazione, sono quelli che egli tratta pid duramente’ ea cui nega ogni valore 
spirituale: “se la barbarie consiste in una vita puramente materiale, che elimina 
e respinge tutte le forme superiori dello spirito, gli Americani non valgono molto 
pid degli Ostrogoti” (V.358). Nell’ultima pagina di Terre lontane Borgese accenna 
alla ragione ultima della sua insoddisfazione per i paesi stranieri: “il dislivello fra 
le . . . aspettative e la viva realta” (V.371). Egli @ mosso da un’ansia di valori 
che nessuna realta pud soddisfare. E il male spirituale descritto con accuratezza 
nel romanzo Rubé, del 1921: una costante insoddisfazione si radica nella “infelicissi- 
ma borghesia intellettuale e provinciale, storta dall’educazione del tutto o nulla, 
viziata dal gusto delle ascensioni definitive” (R.99). Il protagonista di Rubé ha 
molto in comune con |’autore della Nuova Germania: il suo tono é arrogante, la 
sua sicurezza eccessiva, il suo nazionalismo astratto, i suoi giudizi estremi; non 


6. Le rare volte in cui Borgese trova il modo di riflettere, i suoi giudizi cambiano 
sensibilmente. Dopo aver ingiuriato i polacchi, racconta la storia della loro resistenza alla 
politica tedesca di assimilazione — la loro “muraglia d’umanita” (G.218-229) — con pagine 
che hanno toni epici. Lo scrittore sicomporta in maniera analoga con Risveglio di primavera: 
dopo essersi scandalizzato all’idea che qualcuno abbia voluto discutere i temi della sessualita 
adolescenziale a teatro, Borgese scopre che il dramma di Wedekind ha “valore di documento” 
e “bellezza d’arte” (G.107) e lo descrive con ammirazione e forza evocativa (G.107-110). 


7. Sulla diffusione di questa ostilita nell’Europa del primo ’900, e sulle sue motivazioni 
interiori, si vedano le osservazioni di Ryder (specialmente a pag. 28). 


330 LUCIANO PARISI 


crede nel valore delle distinzioni e non ama gli approfondimenti; la sua vita é 
dominata da un bisogno iperbolico di perfezione. Sono i vizi di un’intera 
generazione. Ma la stesura del romanzo, osserva Sciascia, costituisce il momento 
culminante di una conversione: il male del personaggio non é pid quello del suo 
autore che in esso contempla “una spoglia gia deposta della propria storia, della 
propria disperazione” (1168). I libri di viaggio composti in seguito da Borgese 
confermano |’esistenza di questa conversione testimoniandone pero la lentezza e 
mostrando quanto sia stato difficile per lo scrittore e per il viaggiatore sviluppare 
in sé una serie di atteggiamenti nuovi e cordiali verso il mondo. 

Fra il 1929 e il 1931 Borgese pubblica tre libri di viaggio. Quello del ’29, 
Autunno di Costantinopoli & dedicato alla Turchia che Kemal Ataturk tentava di 
riformare ispirandosi a modelli occidentali. Il libro del *30, Giro lungo per la 
primavera, & diviso in tre parti non collegate fra di loro: Passeggiate alpine contiene 
il resoconto di un viaggio fra le montagne svizzere, tedesche ed austriache; Autunno 
di Atene racconta le impressioni suscitate nello scrittore da una breve sosta ad Atene, 
al tempo del restauro del Partenone; Viaggio letterario in Francia trae lo spunto 
da un soggiorno a Parigi per discutere la letteratura francese degli anni ’20. II 
volume del 1931, infine, Escursione in terre nuove, é il resoconto di una visita a 
Oxford e di una breve crociera fatta lungo il Tamigi. Ogni libro trae spunto da 
viaggi brevi: Borgese non abita in Turchia e in Francia, come aveva fatto in 
Germania; transita in questi paesi come turista e basa i suoi commenti su rapide 
impressioni. Nei primi due volumi ricompaiono, appena modificati, gli atteggiamenti 
che vent’anni prima avevano impedito allo scrittore un reale contatto con il mondo 
tedesco. Nazionalista Borgese noné pit, ma resta in lui l’abitudine a contrapporre 
la propria identita culturale di uomo occidentale e cristiano a tutto cid che occidentale 
e€ cristiano non é; e la contrapposizione implica l’uso di stereotipi negativi®. 
Presentando nel 1923 la seconda edizione de La vita e il libro, Borgese aveva fatto 
ammenda per i suoi “errori di tono” (V.ix) e nel libro su Costantinopoli compaiono 
espliciti propositi di umilta (C.15), ma lo scrittore non rinuncia ai suoi scatti 
sprezzanti: le donne turche? sono assorte in una “beatitudine vuota” (C.73); Santa 
Sofia? “non é altro che una chiesa profanata” (C.113)’. L’atteggiamento di Borgese 
nei confronti dello sviluppo tecnologico é dichiaratamente contraddittorio (C.XxXVI): 


8. Gli orientali sono “gli artisti dell’immobilita, della decadenza senza rinascita” (C.109-110); 
l’islamismo é una religione inferiore, nemica “al metafisico e sublime” (C.118). Una diversa 
opinione sulla religione musulmana balena nell’introduzione dell’Autunno di Costantinopoli 
(C.XX-XxXi). 


9. Per modernizzare la Turchia, dice altrove Borgese, bisognerebbe che Kemal intimasse 
“a tutti i turchi di farsi battezzare cristiani entro ventiquattr’ore” (C.126). E curioso notare 
come l’arroganza di Borgese sopravviva in questa presunta coscienza religiosa che non 
contrasta solo con l’essenza del cristianesimo ma anche con I’intuizione che lo scrittore ne 
aveva avuto nel Rube. 


I libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 331 


egli critica Kemal per aver stravolto l’immagine millenaria di Costantinopoli (C.99), 
ma si augura anche di vedere le ciminiere mescolarsi al minareti della citta turca 
(C.134) e alle colonne dei tempi greci (Gr.79). Questo modernismo é tanto eccessivo 
quanto poco convinto. Le citta per le quali Borgese mostra un po’ di entusiasmo 
sono fedeli al loro passato e gli permettono l’illusione di un viaggio a ritroso nel 
tempo: Monaco é bella perché “é quella di una volta” (Gr.32); socchiudendo gli 
occhi, si “sognano le postiglione, alte, dorate” (Gr.36). Il fascino di Atene nasce 
dagli scavi e irestauri che la rendono simile alla citta di Fidia e Pericle. Lo scrittore 
@ contento di essere a Zurigo perché essa, pid di ogni altra citta svizzera, conserva 
“quel suo gentile ingenuo aspetto, fra di patriarcato e di romanticismo” (Gr.230); 
Oxford non é per lui la citta che trova in quegli anni un difficile equilibrio fra 
progresso industriale e rispetto della propria identita storica (Collins, 53), ma un 
luogo “abitat[o] disilenzi . . . nei quali par di sentir volare le tarme del dottor Faust 
o le foglie morte di Peer Gynt” (E.21). 

Bisogna considerare con attenzione queste preferenze perché esse non indicano 
soltanto la formazione colta di un letterato che si compiace di ripercorrere i luoghi 
e di ritrovare le atmosfere dell’antica Atene, dello scolasticismo medievale, del 
romanticismo europeo. Quelle preferenze segnalano anche quale tipo di nuovo 
Borgese, nel 1930, & disposto ad incontrare: non |’assolutamente nuovo, che provoca, 
sfida, intimorisce, costringe al ripensamento; ma il diverso che le conoscenze storiche 
ed estetiche permettono di classificare e di capire. Sulle Alpi Borgese non ha un 
rapporto spontaneo con il paesaggio maestoso che lo circonda: i sentieri che lo 
appassionano sono quelli percorsi un tempo da Segantini o da Nietzsche su cui é 
ora possibile inoltrarsi evocando i quadri del primo (Gr. 13) 0 citando i versi del 
secondo (Gr.18). Le descrizioni paesistiche sono sostenute da un concetto filosofico 
(“Tutta questa vallata é un paesaggio memorabile, un eterno ritorno”, Gr.20) o 
da una memoria artistica (“@ il paesaggio modulato dall’aspirazione pastorale di 
un[o] Schiller, diun Beethoven” , Gr.52). Il viaggio a Salisburgo é un “pellegrinag- 
gio musicale” (Gr.39); quello in Francia un “viaggio letterario” (Gr.119); anche 
il viaggio a Oxford, che si risolve poi in maniera diversa, nasce con una connota- 
zione strettamente culturale, @ un itinerario filosofico che porta lo scrittore a 
partecipare a un convegno accademico e a riflettere sui temi che vi sono trattati. 
Il gusto per la cultura si accompagna a una strana incapacita di accettare nella loro 
immediatezza le realta in cui i viaggi collocano lo scrittore; maschera la sua riluttanza 
a interagire con la societa austriaca o francese, ad interrogare il mondo turco o 
greco, a rispondere ai quesiti che essi pongono, ad apprezzarli o disprezzarli per 
come gli si mostrano direttamente. Questa assenza di contatti reali rinnova 
l’insoddisfazione di Borgese. Ancora una volta egli si sente “in provincia dovunque, 
anche nelle capitali pit' famose; come se le guardassi . . . dall’alto di una metropoli 
ideale, campata in aria” .In ogni luogo si avvertono “crudezze e tardita” (Gr.191); 
nel 1929 i viaggi che gli danno pit soddisfazione sono quelli fatti con la fantasia, 
sfogliando un atlante, “chimerico libro, messale dell’immaginazione” (C.4). E 


332 LUCIANO PARISI 


ancora la malattia di Rubé: il bisogno astratto di una perfezione extramondana 
collegato al facile disprezzo o al disinteresse per la realta circostante quando essa 
non sia filtrata da una storia solenne o da un mito trasfigurante. La sopravvivenza 
di questi atteggiamenti, a otto anni dalla pubblicazione del romanzo che ne descrive 
i limiti, si spiega con ragioni personali e con ragioni storiche. Le opere pubblicate 
da Borgese fra il 1924 e il 1930 sono in genere di scarso valore e, considerandole, 
é facile ipotizzare un periodo di crisi, pensare che la composizione di due romanzi 
avesse esaurito per qualche tempo la vena creativa e la capacita d’indagine di 
Borgese. Queste pagine di viaggio, poi, sono scritte in maniera frettolosa e non 
sono rielaborate dall’autore al momento della comparsa in volume: quello che in 
Rubé era stato criticato a livello di pensiero cosciente sopravvive in questi volumi 
come un’abitudine mentale passiva e periferica, come un’erbaccia nascosta dalle 
pietre dell’aiuola all’attenzione del giardiniere. L’ascesa al potere del fascismo, 
infine, comporta il trionfo, nella scena politica e culturale italiana, di quelle stesse 
tendenze intellettuali e morali che Borgese aveva cercato di contrastare in sé e negli 
altri; e lo isola; lo rende incerto; gli impedisce il dialogo fruttuoso con i lettori ed 
icritici. I molti viaggi compiuti alla fine degli anni ’20 testimoniano una crescente 
irrequietezza dello scrittore, una preoccupazione che non si traduce pero in sconforto. 
Borgese prosegue tutte le sue attivita: studia, insegna, scrive, loda i viandanti come 
“figli migliori” della Terra (C.14). Anche se il suo programma per una moderna 
letteratura di viaggio, enunciato nel 1909, non é ancora stato realizzato, Borgese 
continua a leggere libri di viaggio (Chateaubriand, De Amicis, Serao, Loti); ne 
scrive; e, nel 1931, ne compone finalmente uno di valore. II suo titolo, Escursione 
in terre nuove, parla legittimamente del “nuovo”, e di una “escursione” al suo 
interno. 

La cultura svolge in quest’opera un ruolo di autentica, anche se inconsueta, 
mediazione. Nel 1930, a Oxford, Borgese assiste a un convegno internazionale 
sulle conseguenze che le scoperte della fisica moderna hanno per il pensiero 
filosofico. Lo scrittore, che anni prima aveva liquidato Darwin con battute 
sarcastiche, deve ora fronteggiare il pensiero di Einstein, Minkowski e Rutherford 
e teorie ben pit rivoluzionarie di quella evoluzionista; teorie che sconvolgono i 
presupposti elementari, suoi e di tutti, sull’infinitamente grande e |’infinitamente 
piccolo (E.44). Borgese riconosce |’autorevolezza di queste teorie e medita con 
serieta sul loro significato'®. II suo approccio é umile: ammette la propria 
incompetenza (E.35); manifesta indulgenza per gli errori altrui (E.42); ascolta con 
attenzione le relazioni che vengono lette durante il convegno: e, ritagliandole con 
intelligenza, trova una soluzione personale, tanto provvisoria quanto rispettabile, 


10. “Cio che é avvenuto nella fisica e nelle scienze naturali in questi ultimi anni é certo 
fra gli eventi pil grandi del secolo; e non potra passare senza conseguenze profonde su tutte 
le scienze morali, sulla filosofia e la religione” (E.10). 


I libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 333 


al tema del congresso. Gli pare che sia legittimo riconoscere, al di sopra del caos 
eterno che la fisica moderna viene svelando, uno spirito regolatore: Heisenberg 
“nega ogni valore al principio di causalita'’. Ma... qual é la forza che . 
impone il ritmo all’arbitrio dei singoli casi, che mantiene |’ordine del mondo 
nonostante il caos che eternamente gli pullula dentro?” (E.50-51) 

L’attenzione, lo sforzo di adattamento intellettuale e psicologico a cui Borgese 
fa ricorso per dominare i temi del convegno caratterizzano anche il suo rapporto 
con la citta che del convegno é sede, e rendono il suo sguardo pit percettivo, il 
suo comportamento pit disponibile all’incontro. La sua prosa si fa asciutta, 
l’indagine comprensiva. Eglié capace (con freschezza, con meraviglia) di vedere 
e apprezzare le virtu degli abitanti locali: “qualche volta sentii con freschezza, 0 
almeno con meraviglia, quel modo autorevole e calmo, quella flemma leggiadra” 
con cui gli inglesi “hanno appreso a governare natura e vita” (E.9). Borgese ammira 
il loro senso della misura, le “resistenze verso un comunicare troppo affettuoso 
e impulsivo”, il “contegno non privo di ritegno negli incontri” (E.24). Flemma, 
misura, riserbo non sono qualita personali dello scrittore né caratteristiche che egli 
abbia mai lodato negli italiani; il fatto che sappia apprezzarle con tanta sincerita 
rivela la disponibilita finalmente raggiunta nei confronti di cid che é nuovo, di un 
diverso che non viene per ci6 stesso scartato come inferiore. Il periodare di Borgese, 
prima acceso da facili sdegni e da continue critiche, si distende inun elogio genuino 
e composto del paesaggio e del carattere inglese. Nel primo egli vede l’immagine 
del secondo: “qui nulla vuol essere vistoso, e nulla certamente ¢ romantico, ma 
ogni cosa ci tiene a presentare un volto composto, senza rughe . . . l’immancabile 
malinconia della natura e della solitudine campestre . . . trapassa in un sorriso soave 
e pur virile”, un sorriso che é “una regola di continenza, di silenziosa misura 
musicale imposta a tutte le cose, dentro e fuori dell’uomo” (E.82-83). Scendendo 
in battello lungo il Tamigi Borgese osserva le persone che giocano a palla sui prati, 
che esplorano il fiume, che ascoltano concerti, portano cani a spasso, fanno colazione 
sulla riva in un’atmosfera di “domeniche eterne” (E.87). La loro civilta si pone 
come un modello di vita, forse irraggiungibile nella sua serenita. Per un istante 
egli avverte “il morso dell’invidia in cuore”, e lo domina: “Qualcosa infatti mi 
cantava dentro: ’che sai tu del domani? oggi tu pure sei uno del Tamigi”’ (E.89)’’. 
Le discussioni filosofiche avute nei giorni precedenti, le preoccupazioni morali e 
metafisiche che attraverso di esse i convegnisti avevano espresso, gli tornano in 
mente e ad esse egli pud contrapporre, come confutazione o come epilogo 
pacificante, le immagini felici della vita inglese. “Qui sulle acque del Tamigi, 
vedevo giunto a una felicita senza pari tutto cid che della Natura e di Dio pensarono 


11. Il testo pubblicato nel ’29 dice casualita, che interpreto come errore tipografico. 


12. Di questa crociera Borgese si ricordera con immutata commozione scrivendo |’ Atlante 
americano (A. 40). 


334 LUCIANO PARISI 


gli uomini, dal Rinascimento in poi... Finché c’é in noi l’impulso a dar sostanza 
e vita a ci0 che sogna in noi, finché un’irrequietezza plasmatrice dal cuore ci corre 
ai polpastrelli, l’oggi non é senza domani, Dio é in noi” (E.90-91). Nel ricordo 
delle signore inglesi “vestite di bluse di mirabili colori” e cullate dalle acque del 
Tamigi (E.89), Borgese trova una possibile risposta ai rovelli della cultura 
novecentesca 0, quanto meno, un conforto e una speranza con cui porsi davanti 
ad essi. II libro incontro il favore dei lettori contemporanei: Caprin ne lod6 1’ “arte 
delicatissima” (231), e Momigliano osservo con ammirazione come le descrizioni 
dell’Escursione raffigurino, oltre al paesaggio e al carattere della civilta inglese, 
le zone pit nascoste della coscienza dello scrittore’’. 

Nel 1936 Borgese pubblico |’Atlante americano. E Vultimo ed il pit bello dei 
suoi libri di viaggio. Due ragioni spiegano questa superiorita: una interiore (la 
maturazione dello scrittore permette una disponibilita al nuovo ancora pid ampia) 
e una esteriore (la meta del viaggio é il paese destinato, pid di ogni altro, ad 
interessarlo e ad entusiasmarlo). Borgese, nel 1931, si trasferisce per un anno in 
California’; dal ’32 al °36 soggiorna a Northampton, in Massachusetts; nel ’36 
Si sposta a Chicago dove resta fino al 1948. L’Atlante americano copre soltanto 
i primi quattro anni della sua vita negli Stati Uniti. Tratta di New York, Chicago, 
San Francisco, Washington e di varie localita in Massachusetts. Borgese accenna 
appena alla cronaca e alla politica di quegli anni, che pure registravano eventi di 
grande importanza come la crisi del ’29, il New Deal rooseveltiano, la crescita del 
paese a “giant of the Western World” (Dulles 135)'*; lo scrittore si concentra sulle 
abitudini, il modo di vita, le caratteristiche strutturali di una civilta che—sorprenden- 
temente—gli piace, forzandolo a modificare sensibilmente le sue precedenti opinioni. 
Nella Vita e il libro aveva riservato agli americani |’epiteto di barbari materialisti 
(V.358); piu’ di una volta, e alla vigilia stessa del suo viaggio oltre Atlantico, aveva 
ironizzato sui miliardari di New York (C.77) e le dive di Hollywood (Gr.66)'°. 


13. Borgese, scrive Momigliano, “accenna al lettore la musica della sua anima, dipinge 
al lettore il paesaggio della sua coscienza. Al lettore rimane ... l’impressione di un’inquietu- 
dine che tende a placarsi, che vorrebbe, che si sforza di placarsi, che spesso da I’illusione 
di essere gia serenita raggiunta, contemplazione della terra promessa” (32). Per un giudizio 
negativo si veda invece l’epistolario di Omodeo (Gigante 37). 


14. I retroscena politici di quel viaggio sono illustrati nel libro di Mezzetti su Borgese e 
il fascismo. 


15. Uno dei pochi interventi di Borgese sulla politica estera americana segnala i pericoli 
dell’isolazionismo che negli anni ’30 aveva negli Stati Uniti fautori molto forti e che prevalse 
nelle decisioni parlamentari di Washington fino all’inizio della seconda guerra mondiale. 
Borgese conclude quelle pagine affermando che il ritorno dell’America in se stessa non € 
“storia ma cronaca: un ripiegamento momentaneo, una parentesi che presto sara chiusa” 
(A.313). 


16. Alcuni critici sostengono che i romanzi composti da Borgese all’inizio degli anni ’20 
furono influenzati dalla cultura e la narrativa statunitense. Questa tesi si basa esclusivamente 


I libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 339 


Dal 1931 in poi questi giudizi sono capovolti. In America, scopre Borgese, non 
c’é materialismo (A. 143-145). I miliardari statunitensi, se “hanno accumulato molto, 
si affrettano a farselo perdonare, traducendolo nel solo lusso che qui sia sinceramente 
sentito, e che é quello delle istituzioni pubbliche e collettive, di carita o di cultura” 
(A. 202). Ai prodotti di Hollywood lo scrittore ammette di essersi abituato “come 
a una bevanda che accende” e ne riconosce la “poesia” (A.184). Gli Stati Uniti 
hanno una scarsa cultura letteraria e filosofica e una storia quasi sconosciuta agli 
europei, ma “perché dir male di quello che non si sa, e trattar con dileggio tutto 
quello che han fatto qui?” (A.112) L’emancipazione delle donne, che Borgese aveva 
intravisto con dispiacere in Germania, @ ora un fenomeno positivo: egli loda con 
convinzione le donne “che, abbandonata la finzione di rammendar le calze e di 
cuocere conserve che costano meno in bottega, e risolute a giovare al marito e ai 
figli con collaborazioni economiche e spirituali piti sincere 0 a valere e a produrre 
per se stesse, hanno procurato un nuovo modus vivendi fra i sessi, per cui la donna, 
non pit schiava e non pit matriarca, é allo stesso tempo meno oppressa e meno 
tiranna” (A.211)"”. 

E legittimo chiedersi, di fronte a cambiamenti cosi marcati, se il favore di 
Borgese sia superficiale od opportunistico. Ma la risposta @ negativa; la sua 
ammirazione per la realta americana é attenta, calibrata. Le sue impressioni iniziali 
sono quasi sempre critiche; egli perd torna su di esse e se ne distacca varie volte 
con approfondita convinzione. II primo contatto con New York é disastroso. 
Borgese inorridisce per la totale artificialita della citta, per l’assenza in essa di aree 
naturali (anche i fiori freschi sono venduti “in scatole oblunghe come casse da piccoli 
morti”, A.21). Ma poiegli avverte il fascino dei grattacieli di Manhattan (A.23-24, 
31, 33, 228) e, dopo qualche anno, confessa che “forse in nessun altro conglomerato 
umano, di proporzioni anche alla lontana paragonabili, la vecchia parola urbanita, 
che pareva divenuta incompatibile con l’urbanesimo, riacquista il suo valore” ed 
esprime una cortesia che dalla “superficie di galateo si estende fino almeno ai paraggi 
del cuore” (A. 136-137). Il nomadismo degli americani gli dispiace immediatamente: 
“il loro modo primordiale e permanente di essere . . . é il moto, il cammino” (A.37). 
Sono dominati da “uno spirito ancora di campeggio” (A.74). Le loro abitazioni 
“sono appena confitte in questo suolo, non hanno radici” (A.60). A poco a poco, 


sulla presentazione scritta da Borgese per una traduzione inglese del Rubé pubblicata a New 
York, e su un singolo passaggio di essa (lo si legge in Frascarelli Gervasi, 362) che, a ben 
guardare, € una semplice captatio benevolentie@ rivolta al pubblico d’oltreoceano. 


17. Lacitazione continua cosi: “Ad esse [alle donne emancipate] si devono alcuni svantaggi 
della vita domestica americana, tra cui la fredda e noiosa cucina; ma ad esse pure alcuni 
vantaggi, tra cui la snellezza nei rapporti sociali, la semplice e gioconda ospitalita, l’abolizione 
(tranne che non sia materia da corte dei divorzi) del litigio coniugale, e finalmente 1’ ordine 
metodico e veloce delle faccende di casa, le quali non possono ormai impegnare tutta la 
giornata di una signora se non per insipienza 0 per menzogna convenzionale”. 


336 LUCIANO PARISI 


pero, anche Borgese si lascia prendere da quel movimento interminabile, e loda 
gli autobus, le ferrovie, le strade, i canali (A.45, 72, 107). Gli pare all’inizio che 
l’America sia irreligiosa: nel tessuto urbano delle grandi citta le chiese sono 
insignificanti; e le feste natalizie hanno un aspetto irrimediabilmente pagano. 
Riflettendo pero sulle vaste pianure e le grandi montagne che circondano quelle 
citta, Borgese avverte che esistono in America altri modi per esprimere 0 sollecitare 
la spiritualita di un popolo, che “un nuovo spirito religioso potrebbe, chi sa, nascere 
da queste verginita, da queste solitudini” (A.49). La capacita critica di Borgese 
non perde vigore, ma si accompagna anche a una disposizione pid benevola. In 
America si ride “di celie che a noi paiono pit vecchie del cucco” e si piange “di 
romanzi che intenerivano le nostre nonne” (A.172). E un difetto? Solo in parte: 
quella “riserva emozionale” servira domani e “anche oggi, cosi goffa com’é, é pit 
sana e pil fertile del gelido snobismo che s’¢ andato imponendo all’arte europea” 
(A.172). In alcuni casi il giudizio di Borgese sulla vita in America é severo all’ inizio 
e tale resta per tutto il libro. Lo scrittore condanna senza appello l’incapacita dello 
stato di combattere la criminalita organizzata (A.266-268); la discriminazione verso 
le minoranze etniche (A. 52-53, 243-250, 282) e gli immigrati (A.233-239); 
l’avversione americana a parlare dei mali incurabili, del dolore, della morte; 
Pindifferenza per chi soffre (A.256-260, 286). AlIl’interno di una civilta cosi diversa 
da quella europea egli prova un persistente disorientamento personale (A.75) che 
esprime pero con malinconia pacata, con indulgente ironia, confermando che il suo 
giudizio sugli Stati Uniti resta positivo. 

L’accettazione sostanzialmente ammirata di quella societa dipende dalla scoperta 
in essa di alcuni valori di fondo che la animano, non come regole scritte, ma come 
convinzioni ed abitudini radicate nella coscienza dei suoi cittadini: il sentimento 
di uguaglianza; il riconoscimento concreto del valore di ogni individuo; un’ onesta 
evidente negli aspetti pit piccoli (e pid ricorrenti) della vita quotidiana; un’accetta- 
zione tollerante del prossimo che crea possibilita di liberta individuale inimmaginabili 
in altri paesi. Le riflessioni di Borgese prendono, anche in questo caso, l’avvio 
da un’impressione negativa. Gli americani non sanno godere del lusso: quando 
viaggiano, quando mangiano, quando sono in societa sono “ben lontan{i] dalle pretese 
di quasi tutte le classi medie in Europa” (A.202). Le stanze sono anguste; i pasti 
non hanno “invenzioni e capricci di gola”. L’assenza del lusso é collegata a vari 
riconoscimenti di tipo egualitario: in ogni luogo bisogna fare la fila; nei battelli 
non esitono posti di prima classe; spesso bisogna fare da soli le pulizie di casa; 
“signore di una situazione sociale che da noi comporta un paio di persone di servizio 
qui s’infilano i guanti di gomma e si lavano i piatti”. E perché no? “Ci si abitua 
ad essere sobri e diligenti . . . e a una forma severa, e tuttavia intimamente esaltante, 
di umana dignita” (A.230)'*. A poco a poco “un altro piacere di vivere sorge 


18. Ladonna di servizio — aggiunge Borgese — “non € pil una serva, ma un’operaia come 


I libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 337 


al posto di quello a cui eravamo avvezzi: un’altra qualita di letizia: certamente 
meno sapida; ma trasparente, salubre” (A.203). Non sono osservazioni scontate 
O irrilevanti in uno scrittore che era stato influenzato dal superomismo dannunziano; 
esse segnalano anzi una svolta. La differenza fra Italia e America si pone a Borgese 
come la differenza fra un’aspirazione quasi culturalmente imposta alla prevaricazione, 
O quanto meno all’affermazione, sociale e intellettuale, da una parte; e il pieno 
riconoscimento del valore di tutti, dall’altra. La cultura ottocentesca “da cui tutti 
deriviamo, in Europa mird al Superuomo, in America all’Uomo Qualunque. 
Nietzsche fu l’europeo; Whitman l’americano” (A.148). La scuola statunitense 
non forma una elite ristretta: “povera di umanesimo, é ricca di umanita; remota 
dal classicismo, torna per strane vie all’idea classica della scuola concepita come 
palestra e comunita, come vivaio del cittadino medio” (85). La conoscenza 
dell’ America é “in senso superiore, un’ /ntroduzione alla vita mediocre” (A.148). 
Anche le donne preferiscono essere belle collettivamente, senza primeggiare, piuttosto 
che individualmente (A.129)'. 

Pare che la sorella di Borgese si lamentasse negli anni ’50 perché il fratello 
era “diventato troppo americano”’ (Barié, 8). Se perd l’uguaglianza e il 
riconoscimento del pieno valore di ogni esistenza umana sono i valori impliciti in 
quel mutamento, non lo si pud che apprezzare. Per ragioni morali, ovviamente, 
ed anche perché, a contatto con quei valori, Borgese poteva finalmente allontanare 
da sé la tensione malata, descritta nel Rubé e nel Goliath, di coloro che vogliono 
primeggiare, essere eroi, vivere nella perfezione, superarsi ogni giorno (A.263). 
L’accettazione della normalita era la soluzione implicita alla diagnosi del romanzo 
e stentava pero ad affermarsi nel sistema ideale dello scrittore; essa ha finalmente 
luogo in America. II viaggio negli Stati Uniti segnala e forse provoca il passaggio 
da un insieme di valori ad un altro. Anche se quei valori appartengono ad una 
semplice “etica individuale” (Carducci 128), hanno per lo scrittore una carica 
liberatoria. Borgese si entusiasma perché un tassista di New York non sa dove 
sia il monumento pid importante della citta, l’Empire State Building. Quell’ignoranza 
ha un valore simbolico: il tassista “era un savio, un semplice” ; non molti giungono 
a “tanta purita”; ma “molti, o tutti, riescono a vivere senza lasciarsi imporre un 
particolare modo di essere dalla magnificenza delle moli” —le moli materiali e, quel 
che pit importa, le moli ideali (A. 134). 

Negli Stati Uniti Borgese ammira i piccoli e ripetuti gesti di serieta morale 
che vede compiersi intorno a sé: durante le prove scritte gli studenti universitari 
sono cosi onesti da rendere inutile ogni forma di sorveglianza (A.82); nell’isola 


un’altra . . . che, assolto nel tempo prescritto il compito, dispone del tempo che le resta 
come meglio le conviene ed é mistress 0 miss quanto le padrone” (A.211-212). 


19. Le donne americane, secondo Borgese, sono come i tulipani che “a uno a uno non han 
molto da dire, ma abbagliano in aiuola” (A.192). 


338 LUCIANO PARISI 


di Nantucket le case restano aperte giorno e notte (A.119); nei condomini di New 
York i giornali di chi é andato in vacanza si accumulano davanti alla porta senza 
che nessuno li porti via (A.226); gli assegni sono sempre accettati, le raccomandate 
consegnate senza che venga richiesto un documento d’identita. “La trama su cui 
il complesso della vita americana é tessuto é ancora di fiducia, non sapreste ben 
dire se primitiva 0 avvenirista” (A.118, vedi anche 212)”. Quella moralita diffusa 
si traduce in “eleganza di modi”, toglie le spine dalla vita di ogni giorno, svelena 
le occasioni maligne (A.76); @ una qualita che da all’americano medio costanza 
e€ coraggio anche nei “giorni di depressione economica e di travaglio morale” (A.77). 
Per Borgese, infine, |’ America é terra di liberta interiore, com’egli scopre ritirandosi 
a scrivere in un piccolo paese. La sua solitudine, osserva, é di “una qualita a cui 
America ha impresso il suo segno, anzi ch’essa ha foggiato, ch’essa sola ha reso 
possibile”. In un villaggio europeo “le luci concentriche della pubblica curiosita 
accecano [il nuovo venuto]; il fuoco lento del pettegolezzo lo ustiona; la polizia 
indaga; il prete, lasciando il dito a segnalibro nell’ Ufizio che leggeva, lo ferma 
per strada salutandolo profusamente”. In America nessuno “s’informa del vostro 
nome, neanche i fornitori, che vi mandano i conti al nome della villa che abitate” 
(A.116-118). In un paese con queste caratteristiche Borgese smette di sentirsi in 
provincia: “in America non c’é che l’America” (A.47). Ripensando ai valori 
autentici della civilta europea e ai totalitarismi che gravano sul vecchio continente, 
puo dire dagli Stati Uniti che “qui o in nessun luogo é l’Europa” (A.6). Vi si 
sarebbe fermato per 18 anni, ne sarebbe diventato cittadino (Ghidetti 578), e avrebbe 
scritto il suo ultimo grande libro (il Goliath) in un inglese che ha persino trovato 
ammiratori (Vallese 21)?'. 

La nostra analisi si conclude qui. Per tutta la vita Borgese attribui grande 
importanza ai viaggi: aveva iniziato a lodarne l’importanza in un volume del 1905 
dedicato alla critica romantica (S.62, 88) e lo avrebbe fatto ancora due giorni prima 
di morire, nell’ultima lezione tenuta all’universita di Milano (L.78-79)”. Quella 


20. Sui rapporti tra fiducia interpersonale e democrazia negli Stati Uniti e in Italia si vedano 
gli studi di Putnam ed in particolare il volume Making Democracy Work. 


21. La storia editoriale dell’Atlante americano non é chiara. Robertazzi informa che la 
circolazione del libro, pubblicato da Guanda nel 1936, fu complicata da “ragioni che sarebbe 
inutile far conoscere” (8). Kuitunen aggiunge che il libro fu “rilasciato solo nel 1946” (“Le 
‘corrispondenze’”, 37). Robertazzi e Kuitunen affermano inoltre che il libro fu ritirato dal 
commercio per volere di Borgese, senza dire quando questo avvenne. Le cause di tale 
decisione — precisa Robertazzi— “non avevano comunque attinenza con un ripudio da parte 
del Borgese, delle corrispondenze inviate, a suo tempo, al Corriere della Sera” (8). 


22. Per completezze d’informazione segnalo ai lettori le belle pagine sul viaggio scritte 
da Borgese nel Goliath (333-340). Lo scrittore biasima in esse i turisti stranieri (inglesi e 
americani soprattutto) che visitavano I’Italia fascista negli anni ’30: eccitati dal fascino della 
storia e dell’arte italiana, dalle bellezze naturali, dal cibo, dalle bevande, dall’ottimismo 
e il conformismo “essenziali per riposarsi” (G1.282), essi non coglievano i lati negativi del 


I libri di viaggio di Giuseppe Antonio Borgese 339 


del viaggio perd non fu per lui una “volutta . . . radicata nella [sua] natura” 
(Kuitunen, Borgese, 147) 0 un’avventurosa “aspirazione al mondo” comune agli 
italiani (Caprin, 223). Nella sua vita il viaggio rappresentd un’arte affascinante 
che egli cercd di imparare e di praticare senza successo per molti anni, e che apprese 
soltanto nella maturita: il dono di una saggezza che, creando molto entusiasmo, 
offuscava un poco se stessa, senza peraltro sparire. 


Oxford Brookes University, Oxford 


TESTI CITATI 


Barberi Squarotti, Giorgio. “Partenza o fuga: la conclusione dei Promessi spost” in Il romanzo 
contro la storia. Milano: Vita e pensiero, 1980, pp. 54-81. 

Barié, G. E. “G. A. Borgese”, Acme. Annali della facolta di filosofia e lettere dell’universita 
statale di Milano, V1, 1 (gennaio-aprile 1953), 5-13. 

Borgese, Giuseppe Antonio. Allante americano. Modena: Guanda, 1936. 

———., Autunno di Costantinopoli. Milano: Treves, 1929. 

———., Escursione in terre nuove. Milano: Ceschina, 1931. 

———., Giro lungo per la primavera. Milano: Bompiani, 1930. 

———, Goliath. London: Gollancz, 1944. 

———., Il pellegrino appassionato. Milano: Mondadori, 1933. 

———, | vivi e i morti. Milano: Mondadori, 1923. 

———., La nuova Germania. Torino: Bocca, 1909. 

———., La vita e il libro. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1923. 

———., Le poesie. Milano: Mondadori, 1922. 

———., “Lezione di estetica del 2 dicembre 1952”, da note del dott. Gianfranco Chiodaroli, 
Acme. Annali della facolta di filosofia e lettere dell’universita statale di Milano, V1, 
1 (gennaio-aprile 1953), 77-80. 

———, Rube. Milano: Mondadori, 1994 

—— —, Russland. Wesen und Werden. Amsterdam: Bermann-Fischer,1950 

—— —., Storia della critica romantica in Italia. Milano: Mondadori, 1949. 

Caprin, Giulio. “Ricordo di Borgese”. Nuova antologia, 474 (settembre-dicembre 1958), 
221-236. 

Carducci, Nicola. Gli intellettuali e l’ideologia americana nell’ltalia letteraria degli anni 
trenta. Biblioteca di studi moderni, 11. n.i.: Lacaita, 1973. 

Collins, Roland. “History” in Oxford, edited and produced by Brian Bell (Singapore: Apa, 
1992), pp. 25-49. 


regime e finivano talora con l’elogiare Mussolini. Venivano cosi meno ai loro ideali 
democratici e privavano il loro viaggio della dimensione conoscitiva che avrebbe potuto e 
dovuto avere. — Non é infine un libro di viaggi, ma un testo di riflessioni politiche sul 
secondo dopoguerra, il volume Russland. Wesen und Werden pubblicato in Olanda nel 1950 
e tradotto in italiano l’anno successivo. 


340 LUCIANO PARISI 


Dulles, Foster Rhea. America’s Rise to World Power. New York: Harper & Row, 1955. 

Frascarelli Gervasi, Maria Nella. “I romanzi di Borgese e la tradizione narrativa americana: 
spunti e suggestioni”, Critica letteraria, X, 2 (1982), 359-373. 

Geiger, Benno. “Memoria diG. A. Borgese”, Nuova antologia, CDLVIII, (maggio-agosto 
1953), 191-209. 

Ghidetti, Enrico. “Borgese”. Dizionario biografico degli italiani. Roma: Istituto della 
Enciclopedia italiana, 1960- , XII, 574-579. 

Gigante, Marcello, acura di. Carteggio Croce-Omodeo. Napoli: Istituto italiano per gli studi 
storici, 1978. 

Kuitunen, Maddalena. La narrativa di G. A. Borgese. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1982. 

———., “Le ‘corrispondenze americane’ di Giuseppe A. Borgese”, Esperienze letterarie, 
IV, 3 (luglio-settembre 1979), 37-60. 

Mezzetti, Fernando. Borgese e il fascismo. Palermo: Sellerio, 1978. 

Momigliano, Attilio. Ultimi studi. Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 1954. 

Musumeci, Antonino. “Of Swallows and Farewells: the Morality of Movement in Italian 
Literature of the Ottocento” in The Motif of the Journey in Nineteenth-Century Italian 
Literature, ed. by B. Magliocchetti and A. Verna (Gainesville: University Press of 
Florida, 1994), pp. 70-83. 

Putnam, Robert D. Making Democracy Work. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1993. 

Robertazzi, Mario. “Introduzione” a La citta assoluta di G. A. Borgese (Milano: Mondadori, 
1962), pp. 7-24. 

Ryder, A. J. Twentieth-Century Germany: From Bismarck to Brandt. London and Basingstoke: 
MacMillan, 1973. 

Sciascia, Leonardo. Cruciverba in Opere (1971-1983), a cura di C. Ambroise (Milano: 
Bompiani, 1989), pp. 965-1281. 

Vallese, Giulio. “Introduzione” in G. A. Borgese, Da Dante a Thomas Mann (Milano: 
Mondadori, 1958), pp. 9-22. 





GIUSEPPE STRAZZERI 





Scrittori su ruote: 
l’esperienza della rivista Pirelli 


Oggi l’automobile € quel che é e serve a quel che serve. 


E inutile decantarvi cid che avete sotto gli occhi'. 


Cosi provocava con candida sfrontatezza |’ Ingegner Carlo Emilio Gadda dalle pagine 
di una rivista che, almeno in apparenza, non avrebbe dovuto avere altra formula 
se non quella della promozione del mezzo motorizzato, ai cui destini era legata in 
modo cosi evidente. Continuava invece imperterrito e sempre pit irridente lo 
scrittore milanese: “a Roma, oggi senza la macchina é difficile vivere: ed i0 vivo 
difficilmente.” E tuttavia, solo pochi paragrafi pit in 14, dopo una severa e quanto 
mai spassosa requisitoria filologica sulla parola “autista”’, i lettori venivano awvertiti: 
“lo scrittore, quando scrive, é seduto; e in quel momento non ha bisogno 
d’automobile: essa gli serve per la ricognizione del paese.” Ed ecco esposti, con 
la sintetica fulmineita cui il lettore di Gadda é abituato, non solo l’idea fondamentale 
dell’articolo, ma in fondo la formula stessa di un periodico e le ragioni per cui la 
rivista Pirelli pud avere oggi un significato non del tutto irrilevante per chi si occupa 
di letteratura di viaggio. Ricordando magari per inciso che molte altre sono le 
caratteristiche che farebbero della quasi dimenticata Pirelli un’interessantissima area 
di studio.’ 


1. Carlo Emilio Gadda, “Dell’automobile”, Pirelli (settembre-ottobre 1963), 34. 


2. “... in Italia lo si chiama chauffeur, che in francese vuol dire fuochista, l’aiuto del 
macchinista. Molti anni pid tardi il genio poetico-filologico di colui che porto I’Italia a 
ramengo, in un impeto di filologismo autarchico, deliberatosi di forbire la lingua dagli odiati 
gallicismi ... conid il vocabolo autista. Li per li mi misi a letto dalla rabbia, poi a poco a 
poco mi passo la rabbia. Oggi ... dico e scrivo autista come niente fosse.” 


3. Prima fra tutte il fatto che la rivista nasceva in involontaria (quanto?) ma inevitabile 
polemica con la le posizioni di Elio Vittorini su problemi assai urgenti posti dal dopoguerra 
e della ricostruzione. Si ricordi infatti come lo scrittore siciliano si esprimeva sulle pagine 
del Politecnico, in un articolo del 1945: “Occuparsi del pane e del lavoro é ancora occuparsi 
dell’anima. Mentre non volere occuparsi che dell’anima lasciando a Cesare di occuparsi 
come gli pare del pane e del lavoro, é limitarsi ad avere una funzione intellettuale e dar 
modo a Cesare (o a Donegalli, a Pirelli, a Valletta) di avere una funzione di dominio 
sull’anima dell’uomo.” E interessante d’altra parte ricordare il fatto che molti collaboratori 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, a cura di Luigi Monga 


342 GIUSEPPE STRAZZERI 


Non solo di pneumatici ed autotrasporti intendevano infatti parlare gli 
intraprendenti fondatori di questa rivista. Tanto vale dunque sgombrare immediata- 
mente il campo dal dubbio di trovarsi di fronte alla consueta pubblicazione aziendale, 
contraddistinta al massimo da un ovvio quanto specifico interesse per la realta 
industriale del boom economico, magari col supporto di un pugno di firme altisonanti 
della scena giornalistica e letteraria contemporanee. La sfida era pit ambiziosa, 
e il progetto di ben pit ampia portata. Di fatto Pirelli era destinata a diventare 
una presenza estremamente significativa in quel delicato e interessantissimo periodo 
che va dagli “anni della ricostruzione agli anni del miracolo economico, fino alla 
contestazione. Dal boom al boomerang”*. Lo stesso Giovanni Pirelli, in un 
editoriale che inaugurava il primo numero, faceva trasparire chiaramente, aldila 
del piglio sciolto, l’insicurezza tipica della cultura italiana, schizofrenicamente divisa 
tra pregiudizio umanistico ed aggressive esigenze della tecnica e delle scienze 
applicate (salvo periodici e insopprimibili sensi di colpa legati al fatto di operare 
nel disprezzabile ambito del “pratico”): 


Nella rivista parleremo noi, uomini dell’azienda, valendoci della nostra specifica 
esperienza e parleranno anche uomini estranei al nostro ambiente i quali, anche 
perché estranei, possono meglio di noi sfuggire al fatale inaridimento del tecnicismo 
ad oltranza e lievitare la materia con la loro arte, sensibilita e fantasia’. 


Faceva eco a queste parole Leonardo Sinisgalli, fondatore del periodico assieme 
a Giuseppe Luraghi e Arturo Tofanelli, con riflessioni che ben testimoniano di un 
clima di insofferenza crescente tra gli intellettuali pid accorti nei confronti proprio 
di una cultura umanistica, tradizionalmente riottosa ad ogni reale occasione di 
dialogo®: “La nostra cultura é quasi tutta impastata di storia e oratoria. E impastata 
per fortuna anche di poesia. Eiocredo nell’acume, nella curiosita, nell’entusiasmo 


alla rivista vittoriniana, come Buzzati, Calvino, Fortini, Gatto, Sinisgalli, furono presenti 
nello stesso giro d’anni anche sulle pagine di Pirelli e che lo stesso Vittorini vi avrebbe 
pubblicato negli anni cinquanta alcuni frammenti dei suoi romanzi. 


4. Vanni Scheiwiller, “Pirelli: Filosofia di una rivista”, Pirelli. Antologia di una rivista 
di informazione e di tecnica: 1948-1972 (Milano: Scheiwiller, 1987), p. 18. 


5. “Questa nostra rivista”, Pirelli (novembre-dicembre 1948), p. 8. In questo senso sono 
di grande interesse e dotati diun loro gusto curioso non soloi “pezzi” dedicati all’automobile, 
ma anche i progetti di giocattoli in materie plastiche di Bruno Munari, le riflessioni di Vittorio 
Sereni sulle implicazioni culturali del mezzo pubblicitario o gli articoli di Bruno Migliorini 
sull’evoluzione della lingua italiana nell’eta industriale. 


6. Vale la pena forse ricordare che proprio in questi anni veniva pubblicato in Italia, col 
titolo Le due culture, il controverso studio di Charles Snow Two Cultures. L’opera era 
destinata a scatenare polemiche che trascendevano di gran lunga il suo effettivo valore ma 
che evidenziavano d’altra parte l’urgenza del problema di un dialogo mai avvenuto in Italia 
tra cultura umanistica e scientifica. 


Scrittori su ruote: l’esperienza della rivista Pirelli 343 


dei poeti: credo nella loro capacita di sorprendersi, di riflettere, di approfondire” .’ 
Viaggi dunque, ma non solo. Sarebbe forse pid corretto osservare che la rivista 
intese confrontarsi, in senso piti ampio, con la realta del muoversi all’interno dello 
spazio ingannevole e appassionante del moderno. II che significava ovviamente 
misurarsi con le conseguenze culturali (dunque anche letterarie) di un’effettiva 
contrazione del tempo del vissuto, e con la realta di un’Italia sempre pit accelerata 
e visibile a se stessa anche proprio grazie all’automobile. Prima pero di addentrarsi 
ulteriormente su questo promettente terreno, sara utile fornire alcuni dati cronologici 
relativi alla rivista. Il primo numero di Pirelli, rivista d’informazione e di tecnica, 
porta la data novembre-dicembre 1948. II periodico nasceva come iniziativa 
editoriale per azionisti, ma la sua diffusione (2000 delle 15000 copie pubblicate 
venivano regolarmente vendute in edicola) testimoniava la volonta di dialogare con 
un pubblico pit ampio. Particolarmente significativo fu il quadriennio di direzione 
culturale di Leonardo Sinisgalli, dal 1948 al 1952, in cui il periodico assunse una 
fisionomia precisa che non sarebbe stata mai pil abbandonata fino alla chiusura.* 
In questo compito fu certo d’aiuto al direttore la presenza di un altro poeta, ossia 
Vittorio Sereni, che a sua volta avrebbe abbandonato la rivista alla fine degli anni 
cinquanta per ricoprire incarichi dirigenziali alla Mondadori. La redazione 
annoverava un gruppo fisso cui si alternavano illustri outsider reclutati secondo 
la formula dell’intervento a meta tra il critico e il promozionale nei confronti del 
mondo dell’industria moderna. La scadenza del periodico era grosso modo 
bimestrale, con le eccezioni del primo numero, del novembre-dicembre 1948, e 
degli anni 1971 e 1972, che registrarono la pubblicazione rispettivamente di tre 
e di un solo numero. Alla data della definitiva chiusura, la rivista contava 131 
numeri, dal bimestre novembre-dicembre 1948 al gennaio-aprile 1972. 
Scorrendo i numerosi articoli che in pit di vent’anni Pirelli dedicd ai viaggi 
e alla locomozione, stupisce soprattutto la profonda disomogeneita di atteggiamento 
riscontrabile tra gli scrittori ospitati sulle pagine della rivista: quasi che non a tutti 
fosse evidente nello stesso modo il punto di non ritorno cui era giunto il viaggiare 
con l’avvento dell’auto: per molti, si sarebbe tentati di dire, il solo fatto di scrivere 
per una pubblicazione aziendale sembrava assolvere a un dovere di presenza e 
fungere cosi da patente irrevocabile di modernita; per altri invece si trattava 
evidentemente di un’occasione preziosa di dialogo col mondo dell’industria e di 
una non comune opportunita per esprimere le speranze, i dubbi, a volte anche le 
angosce dell’ “uomo dilettere” nei riguardi dei nuovi modi assunti dalla produzione 


7. Discorso che Sinisgalli avrebbe proseguito, dal 1953 al 1958, alla guida di Civilta delle 
macchine, rivista della Finmeccanica. 


8. “Un vanto della rivista (e di Sinisgalli) fu convincere i letterati e giornalisti tra i pil 
illustri a scoprire i segreti della tecnica, della scienza, del progresso”, Vanni Scheiwiller, 
“Pirelli: Filosofia di una rivista”, Pirelli. Antologia di una rivista di informazione e di tecnica: 
1948-1972 (Milano: Scheiwiller, 1987), p. 19. 


344 GIUSEPPE STRAZZERI 


e dalla vita quotidiana nell’ Italia del dopoguerra. Ed é proprio questa disparita, 
in fondo, a rendere ancora oggi il periodico cosi interessante. Se ad esempio Carlo 
Levi, in un’ intervista firmata da Carlo Mariani’ ostentava da un lato un atteggiamento 
di sostanziale indifferenza nei confronti dell’automobile, vista “solo nella sua 
funzione di trasporto, sfrondandola di tutti i significati accessori che ad essa si sono 
voluti attribuire,” dall’altro non si avvedeva di cadere in una sottile contraddizione 
quando aggiungeva: 

“L’automobile ha determinato in tutti un nuovo atteggiamento mentale e spirituale 
nell’osservare le cose e quindi di fronte alla vita: un atteggiamento chiaro in 
Hemingway, rapido, sintetico, necessariamente anche superficiale. E cosi perché 
cosi vuole l’era della macchina.” 

Contraddizione che si complica nel prosieguo dell’ articolo: 


Una volta, quando si parlava di paesaggi, si immaginava una vallata, un bosco, 
una distesa di campi, immagini che si aprivano senza limiti davanti agli occhi; 
oggi l’immagine standard é data da una strada che taglia a meta una qualsiasi zona, 
il paesaggio scorre ai lati di questo corridoio obbligato. 


Concludeva infine Levi, con malcelato e un po’ ingenuo snobismo (si ricordi, tra 
l’altro, che era il 1956): “L’umanita ha fatto anche qualche bella scoperta, ... ad 
esempio l’aereo e il taxi. Ed allora perché affaticarsi tanto in quella bolgia che 
é la circolazione, in citta come fuori? Non si accorgono, gli uomini, che quanto 
prima saremo completamente schiacciati dalle macchine?”. Un Aligi Sassu in inedita 
veste di scrittore intento a ricordare lunghe gite solitarie in bicicletta nella campagna 
lombarda (e il senso di un’arte che nasceva proprio in virti del movimento) sembrava 
involontariamente rispondere proprio a questi dubbi: 


Le ruote agili fischiavano sull’asfalto, e la campagna grigia scorreva rapida verso 
le montagne violacee, sul fondo di cieli bianchi di nuvole. Le ore solitarie nella 
calma della campagna lombarda d’agosto, erano un invito continuo ad una 
riflessione attiva e veloce. ... Le forme e i colori si rianimavano nella mia mente 
in una icasticita compendiaria, in un contatto diretto e continuo con la terra ed 
il cielo’. 


9. “Quindici pittori e l’automobile,” Pirelli (luglio-agosto 1956), p. 50. 


10. Pirelli (settembre-ottobre 1950), p. 25. E proprio da questo genere di riflessioni tra 
l’altro che nascera il celebre quadro di Sassu / ciclisti. La compresenza nella rivista di scrittori 
€ artisti era un altro elemento di grande originalita e che apparentava il periodico con coeve 
interessantissime esperienze nel campo dell’arte figurativa milanese. Un esempio tra gli 
altri é costituito dal MAC, Movimento Arte Concreta, fondato da Mario Soldati, Bruno 
Munari e Gillo Dorfles espressamente contro le poetiche del neorealismo, in una sorta di 
“poetica della tecnica” opposta al neoverismo dilagante nella cultura italiana del dopoguerra. 
Fu proprio grazie al MAC che si comincio a parlare di “arte e industria” e di “civilta delle 
macchine”, concetti cardine per l’esperienza di Pirelli. 


Scrittori su ruote: l’esperienza della rivista Pirelli 345 


Nessuna traccia, qui, di quella sorta di “rinuncia all’orizzonte” come inevitabile 
portato della civilta moderna cui sembrava alludere Carlo Levi. Lo stesso genere 
di preoccupazione traspare, del resto, anche nel pezzo di un altro grande scrittore 
alla cui penna vennero affidati un viaggio e un paesaggio, ossia Riccardo Bacchelli: 
“Nelle mie peregrinazioni in Italia ho incontrato Minerva Apollo e Dioniso”"'. 
Ed eccoci trasportati di peso in un’atmosfera di finissima rarefazione del concetto 
di viaggio, in cui davvero a fatica potremmo pensare ai vantaggi offerti dai cinturati 
Pirelli: “Non fu all’osteria della parodia e nei templi della retorica. Li ho incontrati, 
o meglio li ho sentiti, per le strade antiche e nuove, spiriti immortali ed essenziali, 
vestiti di niente, persone che parlavano senza parole, che spiravano, non discorreva- 
no.” Di qui prende le mosse un fantastico e delicatissimo peregrinare per i corsi 
di Tevere e Arno, destinato, perd, a una sola possibile, e altamente sintomatica, 
conclusione: “Quanto a noi, gli dei ci hanno dimenticati, e dopo tutto non abbiamo 
da far altro che dimenticarli anche noi.” La verita é che molti letterati apparivano 
in seria difficolta’? nel rispondere a una richiesta di partecipazione a realta fino 
a quel momento mai sperimentate o indagate con gli strumenti della propria arte. 
Due sembrano in pratica essere le strade imboccate dagli scrittori ospitati da Pirelli: 
o accettare |’invito (e il lauto compenso) dell’azienda con 1’ironica condiscendenza 
del letterato che non “deve” essere parte di essa, e che quindi pud firmare taccuini 
di viaggio facendo finta di non comprendere la differenza tra una carrozza e una 
Fiat 600; o interrogarsi in profondita sul significato della propria presenza tra i 
prestatori d’opera di un’industria che si occupava principalmente di locomozione 
e trasporti nell’epoca della “civilta di massa.” Tenendo a mente questa duplice 
opzione, stupisce di meno dunque il tono disinvolto e professionale che spira nel 
viaggio da Milano a Vicenza via Verona-Marostica-Asolo e ritorno, proposto al 
lettore da un intraprendentissimo, e a dire il vero un po’ pedante, Orio Vergani: 


La macchina é abbastanza veloce, ma non si pud sprecare nemmeno un minuto. 
Filiamo dunque senza fermarci per |’autostrada di Brescia. Abbiamo occupato 
un quarto d’ora per raggiungere |’autostrada. I] nostro viaggio comincia alle ore 
12:15. Non si chiedono velocita folli se si vuole essere a Brescia in 55 minuti e 
cioé alle 13:10. Fermata per l’aperitivo? Consentita, a patto di non prenderlo 
in centro." 


Un po’ troppo strutturato, forse? Perché non saltare allora sull’automobile di Alberto 


11. Pirelli (marzo-aprile 1950), p. 48. 


12. Crisiche a volte é anche linguistica, come testimonia in questo caso la prosa di Carlo 
Betocchi (“Case in Toscana”, Pirelli [marzo-aprile 1953], p. 40): “Una disposizione accorta 
delle catene dei colli d’improvvisa eleganza accoglie chi sbocca pel lungo tunnel... ”, in 
cui l’accostamento tra la preposizione articolata di gusto arcaico e lo stranierismo di area 
tecnica crea una curiosissima stonatura. 


13. “Con Tiepolo, Canova e la Duse”, Pirelli (marzo-aprile 1952), 55. 


346 GIUSEPPE STRAZZERI 


Mondadori, il geniale ideatore del Saggiatore, concedendoci folli sarabande 
automobilistiche dal sapore ancora vagamente futurista, ma dotate di un loro ritmo 
sincopato, mimetico di quello del mezzo a motore, in una sorta di non disprezzabile 
“On the road” nostrano? 


E partiamo che l’alba era grigia in un cielo di latte sporco, e bianchiccia era 
l’autostrada di brina, un nastro d’avorio sporco, tra il bianco opaco e luminoso 
dei campi, lontane, c’erano montagne azzurre vicino ai campi, cupe a meta, 
bianchissime verso il cielo, e pill lontane ancora montagne. ... E la mosca correva 
sul nastro sporco, cammina bene, dicevo compiaciuto, benissimo confermava Mario. 
Era cattivo il vento e c’era nebbia e sporco e malinconia nella pianura.' 


Cid che salta subito all’occhio, nello scorrere questi pezzi, é dunque a volte 
una partecipe coscienza del fatto che le modalita del viaggiare createsi nell’era 
tecnologica hanno un vitale influsso sui modi di rappresentazione letteraria del 
viaggio stesso. A volte invece sembra prevalere 1’idea che la creativita letteraria 
possa esistere quasi nonostante l’ingombrante presenza dell’automobile. Un ispirato 
Raffaele Calzini sembrava quasi sentire il bisogno di rassicurare il lettore sul fatto 
che “personaggi, episodi affiorano quando meno ve |’aspettate anche se percorrete 
una strada in ‘pulmann’ o se sedete a colazione in un’osteria lungo il maze“, 
quasi temesse per il destino di una continuita d’esperienza che correva il rischio 
di venire meno con I’avvento incalzante della macchina. Mentre un assai pit 
convinto Ungaretti si faceva volentieri ospitare sulle pagine della rivista con i versi 
di “Da Hong Kong a Beirut in Jet” ,'° audace anticipazione di un’era quasi ancora 
da venire nell’ Italia del 1960, ossia quella dei voli transcontinentali, ma soprattutto, 
cosa che piii ci interessa, testimonianza di un partecipe atteggiamento nei confronti 
di un’accelerazione del mondo che esigeva una feconda riflessione, pid che il 
semplice giudizio o la sterile presa di distanza: 


In questo secolo della pazienza 

E di fretta angosciosa, 

Al cielo volto, che si doppia git 

E piu, formando guscio, ci fa minimi 

In sua balia, privi d’ogni limite, 

al volo dell’altezza 

Di dodici chilometri vedere 

puoi il tempo che s’imbianca, che diventa 
Una dolce mattina ... 


I] punto é che la dimensione del viaggio ad alta velocita, ormai lo si sara capito 


14. “La mosca di fuoco”, Pirelli (gennaio 1949), p. 46. 
15. “Il paradiso perduto”, Pirelli (novembre-dicembre 1948), p. 47. 
16. Pirelli (marzo-aprile 1960), p. 20. 


Scrittori su ruote: l’esperienza della rivista Pirelli 347 


dagli esempi forniti, stava diventando parte integrante e inseparabile della civilta 
moderna; e sul grado di critica ma costruttiva partecipazione a questa ineludibile 
realta si misurava la capacita di questi scrittori di intervenire sulle pagine della rivista 
con un impegno che superasse il tono da elegante elzevirista cui decenni di prosa 
d’arte avevano abituato la scrittura italiana, specialmente di viaggio. Sinisgalli 
stesso, negli anni cinquanta, avvertiva i lettori, ma in fondo anche tutti 1 potenziali 
collaboratori di Pirelli, del rischio di lasciarsi solo sfiorare dal fenomeno della 
trasformazione industriale del paese, in modi che ancora una volta rischiavano di 
tagliare la cultura umanistica fuori da ogni spazio di progettazione. L’ automobile 
dunque doveva diventare, nelle mani dello scrittore, lo strumento per una riflessione 
attenta sui modi dell’uomo di essere presente nel mondo. Tanto pid che |’auto non 
é altro che un sofisticato supporto di una ben pit complessa e pili antica invenzione, 
ossia la ruota: 


La natura ... pud concepire un moto senza fine, una musica ininterrotta, la 
perpetuita, la periodicita. Ma un moto per contatto, un movimento senza liberta, 
un movimento che fa sempre diminuire il potenziale di energia dell’universo, non 
puod essere che una scoperta di Adamo, un frutto amaro dell’ Albero.” 


Certo, in questo moderno, prometeico atteggiamento nei confronti del viaggiare 
ci sono dei costi, dei possibili rischi. Cosi ne parlava Carlo Bernari: 


Miscopro spesso nell’atto di inghiottire chilometri senza gustarli, senza rendermi 
conto esattamente della strada che me li offre. ... I paesi stanno gia alle spalle, 
prima che si sia potuto leggerne il nome, ci si lascia dietro una polvere di storia 
e di problemi, incuié stato stritolato, da altre ruote, quel “destino” che dovremmo 
conoscere e che invece ci lasciamo dietro senza pensarci. I nostri occhi non 
guardano ciO che ci viene incontro ma cid che ci verra incontro “dopo”; non 
fissiamo questa curva ma la curva successiva, non vediamo questo paese, ma il 
prossimo, non questa salita, ma quella che verra, finché la meta non s’inquadra 
finalmente nel parabrezza."* 


Si affacciava alla coscienza il fatto che l’auto potesse porre nuove sfide alla umana 
memoria dei luoghi; memoria che per alcuni in realta il mezzo meccanico non 
limitava o rendeva meno accurata, ma piuttosto “muoveva”, in senso fotografico. 
Anche per |’auto ci siaccorgeva insomma, e Pirelli era una sede preziosa per questa 
scoperta, che proprio come la macchina fotografica essa poneva all’artista o allo 
scrittore nuovi e appassionanti problemi di interpretazione della realta circostante. 
“Domani, per tentare d’esprimerci diremo magari che il nostro week-end é stato 
come un film a colori”!’, diceva Piero Chiara nel tentare di rendere le impressioni 


17. “La ruota”, Pirelli (settembre-ottobre 1952), p. 32. 
18. “Imbronciati i Giovi aspettano”, Pirelli (gennaio-febbraio 1951), p. 24. 
19. “La sponda magra”, Pirelli (settembre-ottobre 1952), p. 62. 


348 GIUSEPPE STRAZZERI 


di un viaggio lungo la sponda lombarda del Lago Maggiore. Ma egli stesso non 
era soddisfatto della propria similitudine. II fatto é, sembrava far eco un preoccupato 
Alessandro Parronchi che a stento celava una punta di nostalgico passatismo, che 


il viaggio “pittorico” era una consuetudine del buon tempo antico, quando viaggiare 
era difficile e disagevole. Proprio allora, correndo il mondo con una posta a 
cavalli, e qualche volta a dorso di mulo, o anche a piedi, tanti valentuomini si 
conquistarono il dono di bellezze quasi ignorate, il gusto della contemplazione 
pit elevata e della conoscenza pit rara. ... Oggiinvece il tempo stringe. Scavando 
per tutta la lunghezza d'Italia -attraverso luoghi sacri alla storia e inalterabili nel 
loro volto modellato insensibilmente dai secoli- quel prodigio di tecnica che sara 
l’autostrada del sole, abbiamo |’impressione che la penisola si trasformi in un una 
gigantesca pista ai cui lati, oltre la cinta dei cartelloni pubblicitari, non ci sara 
tempo per intravedere |’inizio di deviazioni possibili.”” 


Qualcuno invece obiettava che in realta era tutto il contrario, e che era proprio |’auto 
a invitare ad avventurose e prima inconcepibili deviazioni dal proprio itinerario: 
“Quanti paesi nuovi per un viaggiatore che non si contenti di guardare al finestrino 
del treno o dell’automobile, e quanta specie di bellezze perdute da chi trascorra 
lungo la Via Appia senza svoltare per una di quelle improvvise strade che 
s’arrampicano sulle vette ...”7!. 

Una dimensione complementare dell’esperienza automobilistica e del viaggio 
moderno che la rivista si proponeva di non trascurare era rappresentato da una nuova, 
allargata concezione (“di massa” avrebbe presto detto qualcuno storcendo il naso) 
del turismo. Si trattava certo di un turismo assai diverso da quello elegante ed 
esclusivo che ricordava Alfonso Gatto tra Vietri e Castellammare all’inizio del 
secolo: “Gli inglesi con le lunette nere agli occhi e l’ombrello di seta grigia. Poi 
i tedeschi e i Don Chisciotte russi alla Scialiapin sarebbero calati con grinta 
espressionista a far la scena su quella conca marina che dava loro modo di 
specchiarsi, di colorar pennelle barbe e costumi e d’aver persino l’eco delle grotte 
ancestrali””. Dal canto suo, Curzio Malaparte pareva quasi accorarsi della 
possibilita data improvvisamente a chiunque di godere del paesaggio: 


Viaggiare in Toscana non é€ facile, voglio dire che non é da tutti: non perché le 
strade non siano buone (sono, anzi ottime, quando non sono cattive), ma perché 
viaggiare in Toscana, piu che in ogni altra regione d'Italia 0 d’Europa, significa 
risalire a ritroso il fiume del tempo. ... Aggiungo che un imbecille, un ignorante, 
un uomo meschino, senza coscienza, viaggiando in molte altre regioni d’Italia e 
d’Europa, puo anche far figura di uomo intelligente, di grande cultura, di nobile 


20. “Viaggio nella divina proporzione”, Pirelli (luglio-agosto 1958), p. 67. 
21. Libero De Libero. “Ciociaria terra di Circe”, Pirelli (luglio-agosto 1954), p. 53. 
22. “Case in fiore”, Pirelli (gennaio-febbraio 1952), p. 19. 


Scrittori su ruote: l’esperienza della rivista Pirelli 349 


spirito: ma se viaggia in Toscana, un imbecille appare quel che €, cioé un 

imbecille”’. 
Alla larga gliimbecilli dalla Toscana, dunque. Del resto persino Goethe, ricordava 
poco dopo lo scrittore, giunto a Firenze non volle fermarvisi, ma prosegui 
direttamente, tanto era il timore reverenziale che la regione gli ispirava. Ad ogni 
modo, una volta di pit, la rivista si trovava a registrare un profondo cambiamento 
della societa italiana, questa volta attraverso gli sguardi sempre pill costernati o 
incuriositi dei propri collaboratori-poeti inviati sulle spiagge e sulle localita di tutta 
Italia. Un frastornato Montale si aggirava dunque alla ricerca di un’improbabile 
tranquillita in un’affollata e caotica Versilia: 


Impossibile trovare un lembo di spiaggia per me solo. Queste sterminate dune 
sono brulicanti di esseri umani. ... Discorsi colti a volo sulla spiaggia. Guerra 
probabile ma non possibile, possibile ma non probabile, chicchi di grandine a Ivrea, 
del peso di sei etti ciascuno, premi letterari ovunque e aumento generale dei prezzi. 
Cerco pace nelle sedole appena segnate che uniscono la strada a mare e quella 
interna .”* 


La stessa Versilia veniva osservata con sguardo vagamente surrealista, a meta tra 
il divertito e il preoccupato, da Enrico Pea: 


Siamo nella Florida, a San Sebastiano, a Ostenda, a Juan Les Pins. ... La spiaggia 
di Versilia é dominata da un gigantesco canguro che sta con una zampa di dietro 
poggiata sulla Capannina del Cinquale, con la coda turgida sulla Capannina al centro 
del Forte, e con l’altra zampa sulla “Bussola” di Camaiore, e nella cui tasca, sul 
ventre peloso, capace arca di Noé, si agita un’umanita internazionale, sbandata 
da guerre, da rivolgimenti di fatti e di idee. E sfiduciata, confusa, dubbiosa, si 
arrampica in fretta esistenzialista sull’albero della fuggente vita.” 


C’era infine chi invece si dimostrava capace di un’insolita leggerezza, quasi di 
un’euforia del viaggio e della vacanza moderni. E il caso di Gianna Manzini, che 
celebrava la liberta delle donne italiane pigramente stese sulle rive del mare a godersi 
una stagione di sole e di cambiamenti profondi testimoniati, perché no, anche dal 
loro passeggiare spensierato sulle spiagge di tutta Italia: “gite al mare, soggiorno 
al mare. Quello che ci proponiamo é raggiungere—sole pid spazio, pit nuoto pid 
contemplazione—un grado di superiore incantesimo che rasenti la felicita”’. 
Nasceva gia in alcuni una baldanzosa e un po’ sbruffona epica del motore e del 
viaggio spensierato, magari nelle forme inedite e a volte anche un po’ volgari della 


23. “Viaggio in Toscana”, Pirelli (gennaio-febbraio-marzo 1955), p. 33. 
24. “Vacanze in Versilia”, Pirelli (luglio-agosto 1949), p. 18. 

25. “Mezzo secolo della Versilia”, Pirelli (luglio-agosto 1953), p. 36. 
26. “Donne al mare”, Pirelli (luglio-agosto 1956), p. 44. 


350 GIUSEPPE STRAZZERI 


civilta dei consumi, cosi ben rappresentata dal motoscooter di Domenico Rea: 


Era da tempo che avevamo progettato l’itinerario. A me piaceva la parola 
“Calabrie” (Calabria: gia mi eccitava un po’ di meno) e a Corrado rideva la 
speranza di smarrirsi tra selve, boschi, rocce lunari, e chi sa mai, di scontrarsi 
con uomini dal cuore malvagio. ... Il mio scooter era come un cavallo e come 
tale andava trattato, curato e abbellito. Voleva che si ricoprisse la pedana di un 
folto strato di pelliccia rossiccia, “per far star caldi e comodi i piedi”. Voleva 
che piazzassi dei grossi specchi rettangolari sul manubrio per una totale visione 
posteriore; che infiocchettassi i bracci terminali dello sterzo; che aggiungessi due 
pezzi di gomma colorata ai due parafanghi, insomma che ne facessi un guerriero 
con le piume al vento o un cavallo di quelli bai, agili, veloci e fieri.”’ 


Il week-end, concetto tanto estraneo da costringere la lingua italiana all’adozione 
di una parola anglosassone, si insinuava cosi piacevolmente nella vita di un paese 
che assaporava un nuovo benessere e la sorpresa di scoprire se stesso. Un gaio 
Dino Buzzati salutava ilare un incredulo zio, ancora parte di una generazione che 
non poteva credere in un partire che fosse fonte di pura gioia: “Ciao zio, io ti saluto, 
io parto, io prendo il treno, io parto per le idiote stupide cretine meravigliose mie 
montagne”. E 1’Italia si abituava timidamente al tempo libero: 


Non sono necessarie grandi distanze: basta cambiare aria per poco, svagarsi, 
guardare una cosa nuova. Ci basta trovare un letto grandissimo a due piazze per 
dormirci insieme anche una sola notte. ... Non sono viaggi importanti, i nostri, 
li decidiamo sempre sui due piedi. Per un giorno o due ciallontaniamo dalla nostra 
citta per guardare visi e cose diverse, per aprire un libro alla svelta, saltando di 
figura in figura. Il bambino continua a chiamarli viaggi di nozze.”’ 


Brown University, Providence 


27. “Motoscooter per le Calabrie”, Pirelli (luglio-agosto 1959), p. 45. 
28. Dino Buzzati, “Stupidita della montagna”, Pirelli (settembre ottobre 1951), 53. 
29. Leonardo Sinisgalli. “Invito al viaggio”, Pirelli (gennaio-febbraio 1954), p. 40. 


DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


Il libro in valigia: eredita odeporiche 
nel romanzo italiano contemporaneo 


Dispersa nel confuso calderone dell’esperienza turistica, banalizzata dalla facile 
accessibilita al movimento, accelerata e semplificata da ritmi sempre meno tolleranti, 
l’esperienza del viaggio richiede oggi una lucida autocoscienza. Tale travaglio di 
identita si legge in filigrana anche nella pagina letteraria, in quel filone di riflessione 
scritta che, con epifanie periodiche, ancora popola il giardino della letteratura 
odeporica, non pit genere ben definito, dai confini sicuri, ma sede di contributi 
eterogenei e frammentari. Persa |’idea normativa del “libro di viaggio”, abbandonato 
il codificato stile del diario del Grand Tour, la voce narrativa del moderno pellegrino 
letterario si avventura alla ricerca di nuovi sentieri. Non si rinuncia per questo 
ad aggiungere all’affollata scacchiera un pezzo, magari ancora col titolo “sempre 
placiuto” (Ceronetti, 1983, p. xm) di Viaggio in Italia, ma la frammentarieta ed 
il respiro irregolare di questo desiderio di movimento si riverberano nel filone 
letterario che si vuole qui brevemente esemplificare, il viaggio fatto da italiani in 
madrepatria. 

Il termine Grand Tour costituisce quasi una definizione per antonomasia 
dell’esperienza itinerante in Italia. L’ospitalita concessa ad intere generazioni di 
scrittori-viaggiatori europei ed americani lascia una patina storica depositatasi sia 
sulla pratica del viaggio che su quella della scrittura. II peso di questa spada di 
Damocle del gia attraversato e del gia detto conduce ad una posizione di duplicazione 
che accolga tra le righe l’ombra proiettata dalla tradizione. 


E dunque si affaccia per la prima volta nella Storia del Viaggio in Italia la garbata 
pensioncina di famiglia, e pian piano soppianta coi suoi bisbigli di “pane, burro, 
grazie, prego” il tradizionale Oste della Malora, la sua inseparabile partner, la 
Procace Locandiera, e “tua sorella, e del vino!” come nel Rigoletto. Allora accanto 
ai limoni fioriscono gli empori ove si accatastano le pezze di tweed e le scatole 
di té e i saponi da bagno e le sciarpe scozzesi e i biscotti secchi e la marmellata 
d’arance, uno sopra I’altro, come appena sbarcati da un tre-alberi nella Singapore 
di Conrad ... (Arbasino, p. 941) 


Viaggiare é un modo per ricordarsi di un tempo della propria vita, di come si era 
o si pensava [...] E proprio attraverso il viaggio - mentale o reale che sia, interiore 
oO avventuroso - che ogni generazione costruisce la propria memoria e, a ben 
guardare, anche la propria leggenda. (Tondelli 1990, p. 463) 


Utilizziamo a ogni costo il gran tema del Viaggio in Italia? Riallacciamo 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


352 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


ufficialmente i rapporti? Facciamo i conti una buona volta con questo imbarazzante 
paese? (Arbasino, pp. 43-44) 


Quest’unico personaggio che presenta se stesso in viaggio, com’é la regola, non 
pretende di mostrarsi migliore di quel che é: vorrebbe, per mezzo della conoscenza 
attirata in lui dal viaggiare, diventarlo. (Ceronetti 1983, p. x) 


Lo soche a te non piaceva... Ma cosa vuoi, trovamene tu un altro che renda meglio 
idea... Il sintagma “Viaggio in Italia” deve restare per forza [...] (Arbasino, p. 
280) 


“Ma mi basta leggere i viaggiatori stranieri!“ gli faccio. In ogni secolo hanno sempre 
descritto gli stessi caratteri, anche il dannunzianesimo prima di D’Annunzio, e 
forse perfino il machiavellismo prima di Machiavelli, si vede che l’antropologia 
é pill forte della storia [...] (Arbasino, p. 385) 


Il fare 1 conti con il passato diventa un fatto di onesta intellettuale. 

L’autore italiano che scrive libri di viaggio effettua un’ operazione sullo stesso 
asse direzionale ma in senso contrario alla corrente storica. E un’azione di riscoperta 
e di presa di possesso del territorio nazionale, un Voyage autour de ma chambre, 
Sia pure a scale diverse di regionalizzazione. Come in una riappropriazione che 
segua un’ “usurpazione”, la parola letteraria convoglia un senso di novita, in quanto 
pronunciata da un punto di vista interno, anomalo. 

La sfida per Guido Ceronetti é esplicita: farsi viaggiatore e percorrere 1’ Italia 
con un’esperienza itinerante, acquisire la distanza mentale dello straniero ed insieme 
l’abbraccio ubiquo del cosmopolita, e con questo bagaglio di cura e di attenzione 
attraversare la nazione come inquieto pellegrino. La scelta isolata e controcorrente 
dello scrittore piemontese delimita un circuito di fedeli frequentazioni. Nel capitolo 
intitolato “Il pedone di Torino” (1985, pp. 110-114), Ceronetti sottolinea il valore 
della visita assidua a certi luoghi, di un vagabondaggio confinato a domestiche 
dimensioni. La scelta della linea dimessa, implicita nel fare della propria nazione 
il terreno dei vagabondaggi, si riverbera in un atteggiamento di attenta osservazione. 
L’ombrosa sagoma dello scrittore si aggira, curiosa ed attenta ai dettagli, nel ruolo 
di lucido giudice dei paesaggi attraversati. Il potenziale provocatorio insito nella 
scelta di viaggiare, nell’accogliere la posizione percettiva e l’apertura di sensibilita 
tipiche dell’esperienza odeporica, ma applicato stavolta alla propria terra, assicura 
un rigore critico distanziato dalle secche narrative della prosa localistica d’affetto 
patrio. La consistenza della letteratura precedente, di viaggio e non, definisce 
un’inerzia mentale di immagini ed atteggiamenti che va riscattata con lucidita, a 
prezzo pure di contraddizioni vissute in prima persona. 


Qualche grado, forse parecchi, di voglia di vivere li ho bruciati, in questi leggeri 
Viaggi: ecco un altro premio. Quando li progettavo, dell’Italia mi importava molto 
di pit: questo scemare di attaccamento (che rende la fedelta pit lucida) vale un 
sensibile perfezionamento, anche se, lo so, un grido lupesco di passione piacerebbe 
di pid. Ma non é pill tempo di canzoni in sciolti, né di rimpianti impuri. (Ceronetti 


Il libro in valigia 353 


1983, p. XII) 


Quanto pud camminare un uomo! E senza conradeggiare, sempre nello stesso punto, 
tritando e ritritando! Quante volte avro percorso a piedi [...] (Ceronetti 1985, pp. 
111-112) 


La posizione interna di osservazione ed il disincanto dello sguardo aprono al 
viaggiatore in madrepatria la strada a due nuove armi narrative: la descrizione del 
degrado e la prospettiva sarcastica. La prima si caratterizza come inedita proprio 
per la novita delle situazioni che descrive, causa il crollo degli equilibri demografici 
ed ecologici manifestatosi in tutta la sua evidenza dopo il boom postbellico. La 
seconda costituisce un raffinato senno di poi. Dove si é depositato il possibile 
sgambetto del luogo comune si trova anche la possibilita di modulare le note della 
derisione e del sarcasmo'. 

Non ci si puo privare del tutto di una sorta di patina affettiva legata alla propria 
nazione (ed alla sua cultura), ma questa vive un dialogo contrastato con l’effettivo 
e tangibile degrado che si riscontra sul campo. La sofferenza del viaggiare non 
& pid solo un disagio fisico e di condizioni materiali, ma é anche un imbarazzo 
mentale di fronte alle epifanie del caos, della bruttezza, del vandalismo. Essa si 
costituisce come un /eitmotiv, diviene uno dei temi portanti della narrazione di 
viaggio, soprattutto nello stridente confronto con il patrimonio sottostante. L’aspetto 
crudelmente aggressivo della geografia italiana contemporanea rende il cahier de 
doléances una componente quasi obbligatoria, e la mediazione letteraria, |’atto stesso 
dello scrivere del proprio viaggio, pu rientrare anche nella possibile farmacia lenitiva 
di questo dolore della mobilita. 


E l’avarizia, l’ingordigia, la stitichezza impressionante di mente dell’uomo 
genericamente di lettere che ha fatto le patrie, i passati storici, le tradizioni spirituali, 
gli attaccamenti laceranti alla bellezza creata da mano umana, ai paesaggi. Tutto 
questo é anche in me e mi fa, pensando alla bellezza italiana sparita e sparente, 
ruggire di dolore. Bisognerebbe liberarsi anche di questi attaccamenti, come pane 
gettato a cani affamati [...] eppure c’é qualcosa d’immorale nel non voler soffrire 
per la perdita della bellezza, per la patria rotolante verso chissa quale sordido inferno 
di dissoluzione, non pit capace di essere lume nel mondo. (Ceronetti 1983, p. 
17) 


1. La scelta provocatoria e consapevole dell’assumere in se stessi lo stereotipo, accettato 
nella sua valenza vitale, indossato sulla propria pelle, trova la sua concretizzazione nella 
scelta del viaggio del tipo pid standardizzato possibile, gia in bilico sulla barriera del kitsch: 
cfr. la volonta di passare comunque da Venezia (“Dopo qualche giorno di lacrimevole 
soggiorno veneziano - un bagno forzato nel commercio pil sfacciato e ladro tra folle rese 
pazze da un continuo darsi urti per ozio [...]” Ceronetti, p. 22) o i vagabondaggi per la riviera 
romagnola estiva (cfr. l’intero secondo capitolo di Un weekend postmoderno, intitolato 
significativamente “Rimini come Hollywood”, ed in particolare il paragrafo “Adriatico Kitsch”, 
Tondelli 1990, pp. 98-100). 


354 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


Scardinare le frasi fatte - o anche i tabu - significa rinunciare alla sola bellezza 
possibile della vita: la sedimentazione millenaria dei clichés. Non c’é altra vita 
vivibile fuori di essi, uno scrittore lo sa. Impugnare le frasi fatte del mondo significa 
togliergli da sotto le uniche palafitte su cui regge [...] (Busi, p. 15) 


Un albergo del malessere [...] del fastidio e dell’insonnia. Qua e 1a, sempre pit, 
dell’ansia e della paura. Ma ha il fascino dei Grandi Alberghi declassati, con le 
lapidi che ricordano i soggiorni degli Imperatori e dei Musicisti; e poi é il mio 
[...] La passione per I’Italia, testimoniata da tanti classici libri [...] c’é ancora, 
ma va raddrizzata, resa pill severa, pit dolorosa, pill sdegnosa. (Ceronetti 1985, 
pp. x e xl) 


Pero anche la vecchia Italia, poveretta, benché senza un suo Saint-Simon né la 
Palatina, puo ancora fare la sua figura, cari miei! (Arbasino, p. 57) 


In un’azione di autodifesa della sensibilita e dell’intelligenza, il viaggiatore 
italiano in madrepatria puo riporre in valigia i libri del Grand Tour: la ricerca di 
un’Italia invisibile, da leggere fra le righe, si serve anche dell’essenza letteraria 
storica depositatasi su di essa. I paesaggi letterari vanno a schermare la brutalita 
immediata dei disturbati scenari reali, il filtro letterario, cid che si pud leggere, 
Si interpone fra cid che si vede e cid che si desidererebbe vedere”. Ceronetti nei 
suoi vagabondaggi in Italia prende spesso come guida un testo letterario, spaziando 
temporalmente dalla classicita* fino alla letteratura del Grand Tour’. 


Campo di lotta fra Bene e Male € dappertutto, dove c’é un uomo capace di pensare: 
in Italia il loro contendere - per la delicatezza e la forza insieme delle braccia agitate, 
per la malinconia e l’armonia dei paesaggi - ha sempre coinvolto anche la Bellezza, 
"ha avuta come suprema moderatrice, oggi per vittima. (Ceronetti 1985, p. XI) 


Viaggiare non € solo una fuga, ma un modo di conoscere le citta, i paesaggi 
minacciati dallo sviluppo e dalle scorie della tecnologia. (Tondelli 1990, p. 463) 


[...] troppo sgorga lo spurgo sotto il pittoresco franante. (Arbasino, p. 39) 


Questo grande rottame naufrago col vecchio nome di Italia é ancora, per la sua 
bellezza residua, un non pallido aiuto alla pensabilita del mondo. (Ceronetti 1983, 
p. 39) 


Niente di strano, pero, se il mio viaggio elude nel suo specchietto l’immagine 


2. Il ruolo della letteratura potrebbe essere proprio quello insito nella capacita di proporre 
comunque visioni alternative, siano esse velate dal desiderio o incupite dal disincanto; quello 
di proporre il gioco della moltiplicazione delle ottiche, di suggerire lo spessore del reale 
e delle sue multiformi interpretazioni. 


3. Come nel capitolo “Dove il Gran Virgilio nacque”, in apertura di Albergo Italia (pp.3-8). 


4. Cfr. Stendhal citato in Viaggio in Italia (p. 5), e in Albergo Italia (p. 76), e Montaigne, 
le cui sofferenze in viaggio per l’Italia vengono assunte in prima persona dall’autore (p. 
270). 


Il libro in valigia 355 


dell’ Italia come sicrede di vederla [...] tutto resta sempre, alla fine, da indovinare, 
e un reale scoprire non é mai senza affinita col celare. (Ceronetti 1985, p. x1) 


Altrove la vena sarcastica smitizza |’aulicita presunta dell’argomento, giocando 
sul contrasto comico fra letteratura e vita. L’ aura culturale inscritta nell’immagine 
dell’Italia corre il rischio di creare aspettative esagerate, condizioni emotivo-culturali 
che costituiscono una lente di osservazione invadente e prevaricante. E anche 
l’evoluzione stessa delle regole territoriali ad aprire le porte al disincanto. La 
geografia é cambiata, non si pud fare a meno di notarlo, e scenari nuovi richiedono 
nuove parole. 

Senza tinte nazionalistiche di revenge, il viaggio tuttavia appare come un 
giocattolo finalmente riconquistato dopo averlo osservato per lungo tempo in mano 
altrui. Non serve comunque a questo punto la pura e semplice imitazione del modello 
preesistente; sono mutate anche le condizioni storiche ed intellettuali, non si tratta 
solo di un passaggio di testimone, di un turno finalmente arrivato. Una certa patina 
di noia, anzi, pud essersi depositata su alcuni posti “usurati” dall’esperienza di viaggio 
e dalle descrizione fornite, e portare al desiderio dell’altrove, del lontano. 

Basta scorrere l’utile e ricco indice-sommario del capitolo di Un weeekend 
postmoderno intitolato “Viaggi” , per veder scorrere i nomi di un nuovo Grand Tour 
alla rovescia: Londra, Berlino, Dresda, Barcellona, Ibiza, Tunisia, Budapest, 
Amsterdam, Vienna, in un curioso alternarsi di capitali storiche e di mete turistiche, 
inseguite e descritte in base a suggestioni intellettuali, a percorsi musicali, al bisogno 
di dare un volto a certi paesaggi letterari°. 


Non si riescono mai a capire, questi innamorati ostinati dell’Italia: con dei sensi 
probabilmente diversi dai nostri... (Arbasino, p. 26) 


Si aspettano tutti un po’ troppo, mi sa, da questo paese. (Arbasino, p. 39) 


Mai conosciuto uno che viva murato pil di questo nella colombaia sospesa del 
castello in aria senza aprir gli occhi per vedere come girano le cose nelle sue lande 
romanzesche, tipo il Garda o il Chianti, terre di enigmi e di chimere e non gia 
di proprieta agricole in conflitto con le giunte di sinistra che negano il permesso 
per la piscinetta dietro la cipressaia, dove si fara invece la fabbrichetta di laterizi 
con la sua polvere... (Arbasino, p. 25) 


Illeggibilita della letteratura da letteratura - viaggi e sesso - quando é tirata per 
le lunghe. Illeggibilita, pure, dei romanzieri italiani emuli di Henry James. (Busi, 
p. 75) 


La giornata é splendida, con un gran bel sole che abbronza gia come in luglio. 
Tanti bei jets meravigliosi e magari vuoti, sulle piste e per aria: che voglia di andare 


5. “Geografia letteraria” é il titolo del capitolo successivo (Tondelli 1990, pp. 461-516), 
riuscitissimo collage di sfondi spaziali, conferma di un interesse radicato nell’autore e di 
una rara lucidita nel trovare contatti fra l’arte del viaggio e la formazione culturale. 


356 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


finalmente a San Francisco, invece che a Capri. (Arbasino, p. 19) 


Stavolta si era progettato un grand tour di Mitteleuropa; anzi - “wunderbare 
Wanderjahre” - fra le capitali pit tzigane, andando su da Vienna ma standoci poco 
e toccando Budapest, Praga, Varsavia, come viene viene [...] (Arbasino, p. 16) 


Ah, che due maroni questa Italia, io ci ho fame amico mio una gran fame di contrade 
e sentieroni, di ferrate, di binari, di laghetti, di frontiere e di autostrade, ok? 
(Tondelli 1980, p. 189) 


Il “romanzo di formazione” si apre inoltre con un paragrafo intitolato 
“Viaggiatore solitario” in cui, fra le difficolta del mangiare da solo al ristorante 
e le falle nella sicurezza del viandante non accompagnato, si intravvede una 
dimensione interiore del viaggio fondata su esigenze personalissime, unita ad un’abile 
cura nell’elaborare i pensieri durante questo errare. Le due sponde della riflessione 
sono il senso di appartenenza e la leggerezza del movimento, alternate e intrecciate. 

Se il viaggio si fa rigoroso controllo critico dei livelli culturali espressi da una 
societa, arricchimento perenne di stimoli e di soddisfacenti serate da spettatori, allora 
il fermarsi nella penisola non ha pid un significato. Un viaggio in Italia si pud 
compiere anche attraverso il severo confronto con quanto avviene all’estero, ed 
il fronte critico pud cosi avvalersi di una gamma internazionalizzata e pid esigente 
di pietre di paragone. 


Quello che io intendo per solitudine € sviluppare una capacita, una funzione sensoria 
di sintesi nei confronti della vita. (Busi, p. 79) 


Si dovrebbe essere soltanto e unicamente uno straniero per riuscire a sopportare 
un luogo come Klagenfurt pit a lungo di un’ora, 0 per vivere qui, per sempre; 
soprattutto non sarebbe lecito essere cresciuti qui ed essere io, e poi ritornarci 
ancora. (citazione da Ingeborg Bachmann, in Tondelli 1990, p. 441) 


Le radici uno se le trapianta dentro e come le lumache porta con sé la propria 
casa. E come fare scorta ideale nei ventricoli del cervello e lasciare a se stessa 
la terra dove siamo nati e cresciuti perché l’uomo gagliardo e spirituale cresce 
sempre e soltanto altrove. (Busi, p. 56) 


La posizione, portata all’estremo, conduce ad una sorta di nuova condizione 
“apolide” dello scrittore, incui |’identita risiede solo nella posizione di osservatore, 
e narratore, delle realta incontrate durante il viaggio, in un abbandono definitivo, 
ad ogni livello, del concetto di patria. A sottolineare il ruolo della letteratura 
odeporica come bandiera teorica dell’arte di itineranza, il rifiuto del concetto 
tradizionale di viaggio porta ad una scomunica della letteratura da esso prodotta. 
Il confronto con le esperienze di viaggio precedenti pud servire a capire quali siano 
le maggiori opportunita, anche concrete, che la nostra epoca mette a disposizione. 
Fra di esse, l’aumentata mobilita e la maggior facilita di spostamento, unite 
all’accelerazione della velocita di percorrenza. II lento snocciolarsi dei paesaggi 
cede ad un veloce film di immagini, ad una sequenza di quadri territoriali attraversati 


Il libro in valigia Far 


con un ritmo concitato che é gia diventato consuetudine, fisiologicamente e 
mentalmente assorbito. Se il motore tradizionale della spinta all’altrove risiedeva 
nell’insoddisfazione dell’immobilita, in clima “postmoderno” di duplicazione la 
letteratura di viaggio contemporanea sembra proporre |’insoddisfazione stessa del 
viaggiare, la sua ineliminabile inadeguatezza. La velocita permessa dai nuovi mezzi 
di spostamento, l’automobile in primis°, non elimina questo taedium loci. Lo spleen 
alla base della motivazione di partenza si mescola alla perenne insoddisfazione del 
movimento stesso. Lo spostamento si rende allora frenetico, il pit veloce possibile, 
anche se le mete possono sempre essere le stesse dei viaggiatori del Grand Tour, 
avvolte ancora nella medesima ricerca dell’epifania artistica e del glamour della 
mondanita. E piuttosto la predisposizione che cambia, la disponibilita al percorso 
tortuoso, iterato, nervoso fino alla “dromomania”, che si contrappone contemporanea- 
mente a modelli comportamentali e a pietre miliari letterarie’. 


Detesto i diari di bordo e la letteratura da viaggio. La gente che non scopre niente 
di solito scopre la geografia. (Busi, p. 75) 


I viaggi, come il sesso, come la scrittura, non si raccontano, non si descrivono, 
non si teorizzano, non si filmano per trarne delle immagini trasferibili oltre: si 
fanno. Se il viaggio é vero non c’é niente da dire, esso viene intelaiato nel testo 
e salta fuori con il piatto risalto di ogni altra cosa che é rimasta a casa sua. (Busi, 
Dil 35) 


Dunque, allo schema del viaggio geografico, cioé gli Anni di Pellegrinaggio nella 
Culla della Classicita, sovrapponiamo subito il tema della Formazione, il calco 
degli Anni d’Apprendistato: cioé appunto Bildungsroman come Grand Tour... 
Quell’esperienza irripetibile che si pud compiere solo una volta nella vita... nell’eta 
formativa, decisiva... quella stagione in cui ti é capitato di tutto... e hai capito 
finalmente tante cose... E se non possono essere anni, si ridurranno a Mesi di 
Viaggio, a Settimane di Esperienza... sfrenate, frenetiche, come sarebbe anche 
giusto, col poco tempo che c’é oggi per tutto... (Arbasino, p. 44) 


Il cambiamento avvenuto pud anche accordare le note di un mesto rimpianto, 
dal momento che le modalita di arrivo nei luoghi determinano ed influenzano 
profondamente la nostra percezione degli stessi. Non si rimpiange, comunque, 


6. Dall’automobile futurista, o dalla 522 bontempelliana, esaltata soprattutto per l’audacia 
del movimento in sé, si passa all’automobile come mezzo per fuggire, per essere bersagli 
mobili e percid pit difficilmente vulnerabili. Sia essa la spider dueposti arbasiniana o la 
pill scassata ma sempre decapottabile Cinquecento tondelliana del racconto “Autobahn” (1980, 
pp. 177-195). Il termine tedesco, gia riecheggiante l’aspirazione extranazionale, |’eliminazione 
della stretta dogana spaziale del territorio italiano, ricorre anche in Arbasino, p. 17. 

7. Cfr. l'incipit del libro di Arbasino, che propone in un unico frase ben otto indicazioni 


temporali, affastellando un ritmo di comunicazione e di spostamento che si plachera solo 
alla parola "Fine", 1356 pagine pit avanti (p. 15). 


358 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


la prosa letteraria precedente, quanto la mancata possibilita di essere messi oggi, 
con i nostri occhi, di fronte alle stesse possibilita di sguardo “innocente” e agli stessi 
paesaggi, ormai distrutti. Passo consapevole e coerente diventa allora la sopra 
menzionata scelta di un modo antiquato e lento di muoversi, quello del camminare. 
La meditata cadenza del passo acquista valore proprio in opposizione al ritmo 
accelerato che é diventato la norma. 

Come molte altri ambiti in cui un passato ingombrante caratterizza con la sua 
ombra le esperienze successive, il viaggio letterario contemporaneo puo prefiggersi 
come fine la spigolatura del minore. Al di 14 delle tappe chiave del Grand Tour 
si estende la complessita storica e geografica di ogni parcella del territorio italiano, 
conosciuta agli abitanti e non ai visitatori occasionali. 


Gita al vecchio faro? Ma mi faccia il piacere! Si faranno venti 0 trenta gite a tutti 
i faretti che riescono a entrare in cinque 0 sei settimane sfrenate. (Arbasino, p. 
16) 


I viaggiatori del passato avevano la fortuna di arrivare ad Andes solitamente per 
via d’acqua, dai laghi mantovani scendendo fino a Pietole il Mincio e sbarcando 
giusto dove i contadini indicavano le vaghe terre di Virgilio [..] Ma le loro 
testimonianze [...] sono in genere sclerotiche, zuccherose e fredde. (Ceronetti 1985, 


p. 6) 


La fladnerie \’ho praticata sempre, per il piacere di camminare e di saccheggiare 
case, finestre, depositi invisibili di sensazioni [...] Mai avuto macchina, mai pensato 
averne una, ad essere uno che guida. (Ceronetti 1983, p. 110) 


Se i movimenti turistici, causa i tempi lenti di sedimentazione nel mentale di 
un’immagine sociale condivisa, sembrano ricalcare ancora nei viaggi organizzati 
glispostamenti d’ obbligo del viaggio ottocentesco®, la frequentazione delle capitali, 
il bisogno di centralita e di riconoscimento di una simbologia e di un’iconografia 
mentale preesistenti, al contrario i movimenti individuali aprono le possibilita di 
vagabondaggio nella periferia, nelle regioni in ombra, su sentieri meno calpestati. 
Questo attraversamento del minore pud dar luogo a due tendenze: la scoperta (o 
riscoperta) dei luoghi “inediti” e la rivisitazione dei luoghi celebri per vie alternative. 
Nella prima categoria si inserisca ad esempio la presa di possesso dei paesaggi legati 
al fiume Po’ (privi della pittoricita necessaria agli occhi del visitatore del Grand 
Tour, che poteva magari avvalersi di fiumi ben pid maestosi in madrepatria) o la 


8. Lo capisce la potenziale troupe del film (dal significativo titolo kitsch L’Italia si chiama 
Amore), destinato a non realizzarsi mai, la cui idea apre i movimenti di Fratelli d'Italia: 
“Grand Tour! Big Deal” (Arbasino, p.37). 


9. Dipinti ad esempio dalle parole di Ceronetti, vero e proprio segugio delle localita minori, 
nei capitoli “Passato per il Museo Etnografico del Po” (1983, pp. 37-39), “Pontelagoscuro, 
13 aprile” (1983, pp. 287-288), “Ritorno il mattino dopo” (1983, pp. 289-290), “Po nucleare” 
(1985, pp. 34-39). 


Il libro in valigia 359 


nuova immagine, filtrata attraverso la suggestione dei lontani spazi americani, della 
via Emilia notturna di Tondelli'®. Nella seconda si vedano le pagine di Tondelli 
su Firenze, attraversata nei suoi riti notturni, nelle sue manifestazioni musicali 
underground, tutto un mondo brulicante ed assolutamente estraneo alla monumentalita 
turistica''. II tentativo é quello di attraversare certi luoghi senza dover pagare 
obbligatori tributi da guida turistica. 


A un patto, si capisce: questa vacanza casual come trama narrativa portante, pero 
inuna forma che non sisaprebbe davvero immaginare pil dissimile dal tradizionale 
itinerario del Grand Tour, sempre cosi ben ordinato e organizzato, geograficamente 
e sentimentalmente. Non facciamoci passare per stupidini, non é pill permesso. 
(Arbasino, p. 44) 


In fondo, in ogni visitazione dei luoghi, portiamo con noi questo carico di vissuto 
e di gia visto, ma lo sforzo che quotidianamente siamo portati a compiere, é quello 
di ritrovare uno sguardo che cancella e dimentica |’abitudine; non tanto per rivedere 
con occhi diversi, quanto per la necessita di orientarsi di nuovo nello spazio e nel 
tempo. (Ghirri, p. 14) 


Vedere un paesaggio come se fosse la prima e l’ultima volta, determina un senso 
di appartenenza ad ogni paesaggio del mondo. (Ghirri, p. 18) 


Talvolta a questo itinerario nel sotterraneo si aggiunge |’aura snob di una ricerca 
del particolare nascosto ai pit, letto attraverso una cultura la cui vastita é ostentata 
con fierezza. Allora anche il patrimonio letterario del Grand Tour puo servire, 
per nominare ed evocare (ovviamente in francese) i nomi dei luoghi, come se gia 
il fascino evocatore aprisse il sipario del viaggio. A poter accomunare diverse 
esperienze rimane invece un’attenta disponibilita al minore, in ogni senso, un desiderio 
(anche qui non privo di una certa affettuosita) di cogliere tutte le potenzialita di 
un territorio nel suo attraversarlo e nel far si che il movimento non si riduca ad 
un’esperienza estetico-turistica ma diventi un’esperienza conoscitiva. Per far questo 
vengono mobilitati tutti i sensi, perfino l’udito, l’olfatto ed il tatto, ascoltati ed 
utilizzati alla ricerca di nuovi paesaggi percettivi e di nuove ottiche di osservazione. 
Forse proprio nella costante varieta sensoriale di approccio al viaggio ed ai territori 
attraversati é da identificare una delle caratteristiche del moderno spostamento, come 
se la moltiplicazione degli stimoli potesse allontanare |’autore ed il lettore dalla 
pesante eredita retrostante, che aveva nell’ ottica estetica e nella componente visiva 
la sua forma di espressione preferita. 


10. Cfr. i capitoli “Scenari italiani”, “Rimini come Hollywood”, “Giro in provincia” in 
Un weekend postmoderno di Tondelli. 


11. L’elencazione paratattica delle mille “citta invisibili” contenute nella reale Firenze 
costruisce un riuscitissimo anticlimax, in cui la “Firenze del turismo culturale d’alto livello” 
(Tondelli, 1990, p. 82) é solo una fra le tante, e nemmeno la pill interessante, in una 
lunghissima lista. 


360 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


[...] in questo breve scritto tentare una prova contro il luogo comune, dire qualcosa 
di Assisi senza nominare San Francesco: ne sarod capace? E un’igiene stilistica 
necessaria. (Ceronetti 1983, p. 198) 


Via dalla pazza massa, via da queste Olimpiadi a Roma! E dove? Ma naturalmente 
a Olimpia, Olimpia deserta!... E poi ovviamente a Bisanzio, a Bisanzio!... Ma 
a Bisanzio naturalmente per mare. (Arbasino, p. 16) 


Vérone, Crémone, Mantoue, Padoue, Lucques... nomi come talismani assaporati 
come caramelline da succhiare in una cappella, su un sarcofago, [...] (Arbasino, 
p. 26) 


Quante destestabili operette du regard italiano. Un’ industria dell’estetica dell’asfissia 
per bene. (Busi, p. 75) 


Cercatevi il vostro odore eppoi ci saranno fortune e buoni fulmini sulla strada [...] 
Col naso in aria fiutate il vento, strapazzate le nubi all’orizzonte, forza, é ora di 
partire, forza tutti insieme incontro all’avventuraaaa! (Tondelli 1990, p. 195) 


Non solo dunque sono cambiati i mezzi di spostamento, ma anche le ottiche 
di osservazione. La registrazione diaristica 0 comunque basata sulla scrittura, che 
prima conviveva solamente con la passione pittorica 0 musicale, deve ora fare i 
conti con altre forme di rappresentazione del reale che hanno moltiplicato la diffusione 
iconografica dei luoghi. La frammentazione dell’immagine, la moltiplicazione dei 
punti di vista, la relativizzazione dell’ottica di indagine, il gusto del particolare, 
la referenzialita di certe descrizioni, tutti elementi che sembrano caratterizzare la 
letteratura di viaggio “postmoderna” sembrano poter essere collegati ai suggerimenti 
ed alle connessioni con il mondo della fotografia. Si pensi ad esempio al finissimo 
lavoro di Luigi Ghirri, in grado di interessarsi dei pid remoti luoghi minori della 
pianura padana ma anche di affrontare un’esperienza di sintesi come quella dal 
significativo titolo di Paesaggio Italiano (Ghirri, 1989). In questo libro un’ intelli- 
genza curiosa tiene sul filo dell’ironia e dell’originalita interpretativa la sempre 
rischiosa esperienza di viaggio in luoghi la cui immagine iconografica é forse ancora 
pit! minacciata ed imbarbarita dall’involgarimento e dalla banalizzazione di quella 
letteraria. Si ricordi anche la sua esperienza di lavoro in comune con uno scrittore 
attentissimo alla tematica del viaggio, Gianni Celati, che conduce al libro I/ profilo 
delle nuvole (Celati-Ghirri, 1989). I due procedono inuna riflessione sui significati 
del guardare e dello scrivere i paesaggi, aggirando nella lucidita del pensiero il rischio 
del déja vu. Il viaggio si fa allora compiutamente riflessione sul viaggio, sul proprio 
movimento e sulle strategie con cui lo si descrive.'” 


Abbiamo visto tutto prima al cine, alla Tv, sulle riviste, quando vogliamo fare 
un viaggio é qualcuno che mandiamo al posto nostro, tanto di persona la realta 
é deludente. (Busi, p. 28) 


12. Significativo il titolo dello scritto di Celati, Commenti su un teatro naturale delle immagini. 


Il libro in valigia 361 


Il mondo osservato non é quello che appare attraverso il punto di vista d’un individuo 
singolo. E quello che, prima di lui, é gid comune alle varie osservazioni e 
rappresentazioni, perché appartiene ad una forma di vita. (Celati-Ghirri, 1989, 
S.i.p.) 


Ghirri risponde che come chi scrive non puo affidarsi che alle parole e alle frasi, 
cosi un fotografo non puo che affidarsi al modo di inquadrare le cose. [...] Bisogna 
rinunciare ad un punto di vista proprio, altrimenti si spia e non si guarda. La 
fotografia é innaturale per questo, tendenzialmente. Ma lavorando all’ inquadratura 
Si puo arrivare a certe approssimazioni, che richiamino una visione comune ed 
uno sguardo spontaneo. (Celati-Ghirri, s.i.p.) 


La preponderanza quantitativa, la rilevante dimensione economica, il fortissimo 
impatto iconografico e mentale esercitato sull’idea di alterita spaziale fanno si che 
il turismo si confronti anche con l’immagine letteraria dei luoghi e di conseguenza 
con la letteratura di viaggio. La tradizione letteraria diventa uno dei possibili 
ingredienti del marketing. Se prima un resoconto di viaggio poteva farsi promotore 
ed incoraggiare la ripetizione dell’esperienza, addirittura in parte sostituirsi od 
affiancarsi alla funzione didattico-esplicativa, oggiesso appare invece pill occupato 
a rintracciare possibilita di unicita, di eccezionalita. 


L’organizzazione turistica non bada ai pregiudizi in nessun senso: fa suo tutto, 
proprio tutto. [...] Dove c’é cultura 0 passato non importa di che tipo, il turismo 
te lo sbatte in faccia come fosse una cipria. (Busi, p. 355) 


Tutti frequentano frenetici l’Estero: i pit dei miei viaggi io li faccio su e gill per 
questo albergo. (Ceronetti 1983, p. x) 


A volte nelle sue immagini compaiono anche le gondole di Venezia o la Torre 
di Pisa, e persino la Piazza del Palio di Siena ricostruita per i visitatori dell’ Italia 
in miniatura a Rimini. Pero non si ha mai l’impressione che il cosiddetto kitsch 
venga utilizzato in quel modo cinico 0 intellettualistico, o come si dice “dissacrante” , 
a cui ci ha abituato tanta arte contemporanea, né tantomeno che agiscano i soliti 
cliché artistico-turistici, riscattati magari da una pretesa sensibilita poetica. Mi 
sembra piuttosto che le fotografie di Ghirri vogliano cercare e riconoscere, nella 
realta, quella figurazione del mondo che sapeva parlare alla nostra infanzia, quando 
le cose si svelavano un microcosmo visibile dove potevamo incontrare tante possibili 
storie, che finalmente parevano sul punto disvolgersi. (Giorgio Messori, in Ghirri, 
p. 60) 


I turisti sono reali perché non leggono; se leggessero, tanti starebbero a casa loro. 
(Busi, p. 266) 


L’uso spesso banalizzante che si fa della citazione célta in un ambito editoriale 
turistico (o anche di erudizione campanilistica) rivela quella che é al giorno d’oggi 
la componente pit affascinante, ma anche “rischiosa” della letteratura di viaggio. 
La sfida letteraria che si pone di fronte alla letteratura di viaggio si situa proprio 
fra il rischio della scontata ripetizione di moduli gia avvolti alla nascita da un’ ottica 


362 DAVIDE PAPOTTI 


di sfruttamento turistico-commerciale e la possibilita di creare modelli alternativi 
di rivitalizzazione di un genere. In una dialettica interna ed esterna alla societa 
letteraria con un’altra pulsione condivisa, quella dell’ immobilita e dell’isolamento, 
la letteratura di viaggio puo portare il suo apporto alla (ri)conquista di un senso 
dello spazio, riagganciarsi al vecchio dialogo fra viaggiatore e residente (e fra 
narrativa “stanziale” e narrativa “di passo”). A sicuro vantaggio di entrambi. 


University of Virginia 
OPERE CITATE 


Alberto Arbasino, Fratelli d’Italia. Milano, Adelphi, 1993. 

Aldo Busi, Sodomie in corpo 11. Milano, Mondadori, 1989. 

Gianni Celati, Verso la foce. Milano, Feltrinelli, 1989. 

Gianni Celati e Luigi Ghirri. 1 profilo delle nuvole, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1989. 
Guido Ceronetti, Viaggio in Italia. Torino, Einaudi, 1983. 

—— —, Albergo Italia. Torino, Einaudi, 1985. 

Luigi Ghirri, Paesaggio italiano. Milano, Electa, 1989. 

Pier Vittorio Tondelli, Altri libertini. Milano, Feltrinelli, 1980. 

———, Un weekend postmoderno. Milano, Bompiani, 1990. 


MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance 
et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 


1. — “Volcan” est un de ces rares mots a avoir la chance de posséder un acte de 
naissance: dans son sens moderne, il apparait le 28 juillet 1524 sous la plume de 
Pedro de Alvaredo, dans un rapport adressé du Guatemala”. D’autre part, s’il est 
vrai qu’ il est utilisé comme nom commun, “sans aucune explication ni comparai- 
son”? par d’autres auteurs espagnols et, plus tard, italiens du XVI° siécle, il ne 
s’imposera toutefois de maniére plus ou moins définitive dans les langues europé- 
ennes qu’a partir de 1650 environ, grace notamment 4l’ouvrage de Varenius. Quoi 
qu’il en soit, l’adoption d’un terme précis pour désigner une réalité donnée est 
toujours un événement important dans 1|’évolution de la pensée et la perception du 
monde: on ne connait, en fin de compte, que ce qui est cristallisé dans un terme 
univoque. En l’absence de celui qui nous retient ici, aboutissement d’un long 
processus d’antonomase, on en était réduit 4 des périphrases ou 4 des syntagmes 
nominaux fluctuants selon le contexte: mons flammarum, mons ardens, mons 
ignivomus, montaigne qui jette feu, etc. Autant d’expressions ov le caractére 
volcanique semble relever de |’accident plut6t que de la compréhension d’un 
concept. 


2. — S’il semble hors de doute que le terme est étroitement associé 4 l’exploration 
de l’ Amérique, la chose, quant a elle, n’était é6videmment pas inconnue en Europe. 
Ainsi, pour les continentaux, la lointaine Islande était par excellence l’ile aux 
montagnes crachant feu et cendres, souvent résumées dans le seul Hekla, “qui, tel 
unrocher couvert d’étoiles, par les ardeurs d’ une perpétuelle combustion, entretient 
l’incendie en vomissant sans cesse des flammes 4 son sommet”, prompt a étouffer 


1. Le présent essai ne prétend évidemment pas 4 |’exhaustivité: il devrait étre considéré 
comme le premier jet d’une étude plus vaste. Le terme ‘‘Renaissance” est pris ici dans un 
sens chronologique trés large, mais ne dépasse pas, en principe, 1631, l’année du grand 
réveil du Vésuve. Nos remerciements tout particuliers vont 4 Luigi Monga, qui nous a 
permis d’utiliser, avant publication, son édition du texte de Joseph Catin. 


2. “En esta tierra habemos hallado una sierra do esta un volcan, que es la mas espantable 
cosa que se ha visto”, cité par Aebischer, p. 307; cfr. Arveiller (1950), Arveiller (1953), 
Cortelazzo-Zolli, von Wartburg. 


3. Aebischer, p. 307. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


364 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


les imprudents qui s’en approchent trop:* rien d’étonnant a ce que les croyances 
populaires aient situé dans ces fournaises l’enfer ou le purgatoire.© Quant aux 
relations de voyage en Islande, elles sont en général tardives et sujettes 4 caution. 
Si le commercant hambourgeois Gories Peerse parait réellement avoir visité l’ile 
au moment de |’éruption de I’Hekla en 1554, 1’évocation qu’il en donne dans son 
Gedicht van Ysland, mélée 4 des informations déformées ou fantaisistes, n’a 
vraiment rien qui puisse faire progresser les connaissances dans ce domaine.° Plus 
grave, uncertain Dithmar Blefken, qui prétend avoir fait en 1563/1564 l’ascension 
de l’Hekla et avoir assisté 4 une effroyable éruption, n’a probablement jamais mis 
le pied dans |’ile’! La Renaissance, nourrie aussi des livres de Ziegler et d’Olaus 
Magnus, et malgré les vues plus sensées d’un Sébastien Miinster, ne se fera pas 
du volcanisme islandais une idée fondamentalement différente de celle des époques 
précédentes: paradigme purement abstrait, “signal” 4 faire figurer dans toute 
évocation littéraire de 1’Europe septentrionale,* simple panache de fumée sur une 
carte géographique, assez étranger 4 toute expérience vécue pour que les vieilles 
légendes infernales se retrouvent encore chez un érudit sérieux comme Conrad 
Peucer’. Peucer, Blefken, Gories Peerse auront beau étre fustigés par l’humaniste 
islandais Arngrimur J6nsson (Arngrimus Jonas)'°, soucieux de donner une image 


4. Cfr. Saxo Grammaticus, f. 2 v.: “In hac itidem insula mons est, qui rupem sydeream 
perpetuaz flagrationis estibus imitatus, incendia sempiterna iugi flammarum eructatione 
continuat”; cfr. Olaus Magnus, p. 50: “Rupes etenim, sive promontorium in ea est [...] 
quod instar Atne perpetuis ignibus zstuat”; p. 49: “Qui propius accedunt, vi pulveris et 
faville scaturientis facile suffocantur”. 


5. Cfr. Olaus Magnus, loc. cit.: “Ibique locus esse creditur poenae, expiationisque 
sordidarum animarum. Illic nempe spiritus seu umbrae comperiuntur, se exhibentes 
manifestos humanis ministeriis, submersorum, sive alio violento casu enectorum”. 


6. Pour les trés rares renseignements concernant cet auteur, cfr. l’introduction de W. 
Seelmann 4 son édition de ce texte en bas-allemand, et J6nsson in Benediktsson. 


7. On dispose de trés peu de renseignements biographiques concernant ce personnage: cfr. 
Beckmann, I, 114-123; Seelmann; Jonsson in Benediktsson. 


8. Cfr. p.ex. Nathan Chytraeus: “Dum vasto excipiet Boream Norvegia tractu, /Sulphurea 
horribili dum diffluet Hecla ululatu”: Memoriae Illustr. Dorotheae, Danorum regis Friderici 
I filiae, in Poematum praeter sacra omnium libri XVII (Rostock, 1579), f. 31 v. 


9. Ff. 153 v. 154 r: “Vulgus incolarum descensum esse per voraginem illam ad inferos 
persuasum habet, inde cum proelia committuntur alibi, in quacunque parte orbis terrarum, 
aut caedes fiunt cruentae, commoveri horrendos circumcirca tumultus et excitari clamores 
atque eiulatus ingentes longa experientia didicerunt”. Ce passage manque dans 1’édition 
princeps (1553); cfr. Benediktsson (1950-1957), IV, 157. 


10. (1568-1648): cfr. Benediktsson (1991); Benediktsson (1943); Benediktsson (1950-1957). 
JOnsson s’en prend aux erreurs de Peerse et autres dans on Brevis commentarius de Islandia 
(Hafniae, 1593), et a celles de Blefken dans Anatome Blefkiana (1612). Une vue d’ensemble 
de |’Islande est fournie dans sa Crymogaea (1609). Dans l’introduction de Seelmann 4 
Peerse, on aura soin de corriger, ala p. 112, les dates de 1507, 1509 et 1513 en 1607, 1609 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 365 


plus fidéle de sa patrie, I’Islande et ses volcans n’en demeureront pas moins 
confinés dans leur éloignement mi-géographique mi-légendaire, enveloppés de 
brumes et de mystére, aux antipodes des rapports officiels et factuels des conquista- 
dors espagnols. 


3. — Bien plus accessible que I’Islande, 1’l’Italie avait aussi — seul pays du 
continent — ses volcans en activité. Etant acquis que personne, a la Renaissance, 
n’entreprend spécialement le voyage d’Italie pour visiter et étudier les volcans, 
ceux-ci ne manquent a peu prés jamais d’interpeller les voyageurs qui les trouvent 
sur leur chemin — diplomates, courtisans, érudits accomplissant leur peregrinatio 
academica, précepteurs accompagnant de princiers éléves, pélerins de Terre Sainte, 
malades fortunés en quéte d’eaux curatives, bref, tout viandante/ Che qui sua 
volonta meni o fortuna''. C’est dire que la rencontre avec les volcans dépend 
largement des hasards d’un itinéraire concu a de tout autres fins. 


4. — Dans ces conditions, il ne faut guére s’étonner qu’on fasse peu mention de 
lieux aussi excentriques que les iles Eoliennes — Vulcano, Stromboli, Vulcanello, 
— malgré leur relative célébrité au moyen age qui, semble-t-il, les confondait' 
en une unique bouche d’enfer, prompte a engloutir les pécheurs, fussent-ils aussi 
puissants que Théodoric'®. A quelques exceptions prés’*, seuls des voyageurs 
traversant le Sud ou |’Est de la Méditerranée ont l’occasion de les observer en 
passant, tout en ne s’y attardant pas beaucoup dans leurs écrits. Salomon Cruselius, 
revenant de ses pérégrinations mouvementées en Méditerranée Orientale, ne leur 
consacre que quatre vers'*; Thomas Hoby, naviguant de Sicile en Calabre, est 


et 1613. 


11. Ariosto, Orlando Furioso, XXIII, 109. Sur le voyage en Italie 4 la Renaissance, cfr. 
Atkinson; Beckmann; Boucher de la Richarderie, en partic. II, 475-531, III, 1-73; Céard- 
Margolin; D’Ancona, préface au Journal de voyage de Montaigne; Dibon-Waquet; Fazio; 
MacPhail; Mollat; Parks; Penrose; Pine-Coffin; Tresoldi; Waetzold; Wiegand; et la 
collection du “Centro Interuniversitario di Ricerche sul Viaggio in Italia” (CIRVI). 


12. Cfr. Aebischer, p. 316. La confusion n’est pas présente chez Michel Scot: cfr. Parks, 
I, 225-226. 


13. Cfr. Le Goff, pp. 171-172, 273-274, etc.: sur Saint Grégoire, Jotsuald, Pierre Damien, 
etc.; références aux travaux de G. Cozza Luzi, G. Iacolino, B. Brea, etc. Sur Vulcano 
comme entrée de l’enfer, cfr. Parks, pp. 69, 75-76, d’aprés la Vita Willibaldi (in Monumenta 
Germaniae historica/ Scriptores, XV/1, 101-102). 


14. Hoby, en revanche, s’était rendu en Sicile “both to have a sight of the countrey and 
also to be absent my self for a while owt of Englishemenne’s companie for the tung’s sake” 


(pp. 37-38). 


15. Cruselius, f. C4 r.: “Insula ab hoc spacio parvo non magna revulsa,/ Strongylus a 
Graecis indigitata iacet./ Saepius incenso eructantem sulphure flammas/ Vidimus hanc, 
umbris cum tegeretur humus”. Sur Cruselius, cfr. Richter in ADB, LI, 453-455; Wiegand, 
pp. 472-476. 


366 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


un peu plus circonstancié (p. 52), de méme que, plus tard, William Lithgow" 
(p. 35) et George Sandys’ (p. 248), retour du Levant; mais ce n’est certes pas 
l’endroit ot on accoste le plus volontiers. 


5. — Malgré sa situation presque aussi périphérique que celle des iles Lipari, plus 
méditerranéenne que spécifiquement italienne, et bien que 


per quasi tutto il Cinquecento la Sicilia non rientrava negli itinerari di viaggio, in 
quanto la scarsita di mezzi di trasporto, le strade poco sicure e la mancanza di 
alloggiamenti adeguati lungo il percorso non invogliavano i viaggiatori ad inoltrarsi 
pit a sud del Napoletano,'® 


l’Etna n’en possédait pas moins, comme on sait, une riche tradition littéraire 
remontant a 1’ Antiquité, ne perdant rien de sa vigueur au moyen 4ge, qui l|’enve- 
loppe de connotations infernales'’, ni a la Renaissance, qui en fait un véritable 
topos poétique”. Bien plus, sous sa forme arabo-romane de Mongibello, il tendra, 
autant que Vulcanus, a devenir une antonomase. Point n’était donc besoin d’avoir 
vu l’Etna pour en parler dans ses écrits. I] ne manque toutefois pas de témoignages 
concernant des expériences directes et personnelles, faites par des voyageurs partant 
pour le Levant ou en revenant, comme Bohuslav HasiStejnsky (1490-1491), 
Stanislas Laski (v. 1520 ou 1528), Johannes Dantiscus (entre 1505 et 1507), George 
Sandys, William Lithgow (tous deux peu aprés 1610), etc.; par des écrivains locaux 
comme Scipione Errico (1592-1670), auteur d’une Ode a |’Etna qui, dans une 
longue coincidentia oppositorum, méle les images mythologiques 4 la thématique 
amoureuse”'; ou encore par des résidents temporaires. C’est a un de ces derniers 
—et non des moindres,— que 1’on doit un des fruits les plus exquis parmi les 
évocations littéraires de 1’Etna: il s’agit du dialogue De 4tna, ou le jeune Pietro 
Bembo relate son ascension du volcan en 1493, alors qu’il séjournait 4 Messine 
pour étudier le grec chez Constantin Lascaris”. A la fois “exercice de style” 
cicéronien, texte didactique, hommage filial 4 Bernardo Bembo et discréte affirma- 
tion d’un choix de vie différent”, cette petite ceuvre, qui valut aussit6t a son 
auteur une enviable célébrité, alterne avec bonheur les évocations du jardin familial 


16. Sur Lithgow, cfr. DNB, XXXIII, 359-361. 
17. Sur Sandys, cfr. DNB, L, 290-293. 


18. Jaworska, p. 162. Pour les voyageurs continentaux, Naples marque souvent le début 
du retour. 


19. Cfr. Graf, “Artd nell’Etna”, in Miti..., pp. 461-485. 
20. Cfr. Kovacs. 

21. Cfr. Kovacs. 

22. Cfr. S. Giinther; Naselli; Travi; Kilpatrick. 

23. Cfr. Floriani. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénomeénes volcaniques en Italie 367 


de Noniano (Villa Bozza) et les descriptions circonstanciées du voyage de Messine 
4 Randazzo et de la visite A 1’Etna, dans une opposition implicite: nature domesti- 
quée vs nature sauvage, le point de raccord se trouvant dans ces platanes qui 
croissent librement en Sicile et que Bembo pére réverait d’acclimater dans son 
jardin, et dans le magnifique vétement végétal qui recouvre la plus grande partie 
du volcan (pp. 322 b, 324 a). L’Etma, ses paysages sans cesse changeants au gré 
de la progression vers le sommet et ses impressionnantes manifestations volca- 
niques, dangereuses ou simplement spectaculaires, bénéficient d’une précision de 
termes et une vivacité d’expression qui en disent long sur la curiosité et l’enthou- 
siasme un peu inconscient du jeune voyageur: 


Lustrandi singula studio, vel potius aviditate ferebamur [...]. Tanta nos delectatio 
illius spectaculi detinebat, tanta rei novitas, tantus invaserat stupor, ut sui ipsius iam 
nemo satis nostrum recordaretur. (p. 325 a) 


Celui-ci n’est pas avare de détails sur son exploit, dont il tire visiblement une fierté 
a la mesure des difficultés traversées: les chaussures sont usées en un rien de 
temps, “comme 4 la lime”, par le sol abrasif et bralant (p. 327 a), toute progression 
ne peut se faire qu’en grimpant péniblement, en se blessant bras et jambes, sur un 
terrain peu fiable, oi on est sans cesse 4 la merci des éboulements et des chutes: 


Reptationis eius labor haud facile credas, quam durus est, quamque indigens virentis 
genu: quippe, quia degravante viatore temere ingesti lapides concedunt, et in ascensu 
maxime arduo, ni probe posueris pedem, dimoto uno, tota congeries devolvitur, et 
in te ipsum ruit: adde, quod etiam si in plano cecideris, ledunt scabritie sua: et 
manus crebro contactu, nisi contexeris, atteruntur. (p. 327 b) 


Fierté de la difficulté vaincue, certes; mais l’auto-célébration n’est pas absolue: 
si l’auteur est parvenu au bord du cratére inférieur, |’autre, situé plus haut, il ne 
le connait que par le récit du moine Urbain, “homo ille quidem spectate fidei, 
atque harum rerum cupientissimus sciscitator” , rencontré 4 Messine (p. 325 a: la 
conformation du sommet a connu depuis lors plusieurs bouleversements): cet 
effacement partiel du moi a évidemment pour effet de donner plus de crédibilité 
au reste. 

En son pére, Pietro Bembo trouve un auditeur tant6t attentif et passionné, tantot 
distrait et dispersé (un peu sénile?), revenant 4 tout propos a son idée fixe: son 
jardin du Noniano. Au demeurant, questionneur expert dans |’art d’accoucher 
l’esprit de son fils, dont la prouesse le remplit d’une admiration soigneusement 
dissimulée et d’appréhensions rétrospectives; fidéle 4 une image de vieux sage et 
de donneur de lecons, c’est lui qui expose, non sans un brin de pédantisme, sa 
théorie du volcanisme, de type “neptunien” (pp. 325 b-326 b). Prompt a repousser 
tout recours au merveilleux dans l’explication des choses, Bernardo se montre en 
revanche sensible aux fables paiennes suggérées par les spectacles de la nature, 
pourvu qu’elles soient toujours contrélées par la raison, “ut cerato remige Sirenas, 
ut aiunt” (p. 328 b), interprétées au second degré et porteuses allégoriques d’une 


368 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


morale. Dés lors, l’ascension de |’Etna n’aura pas été qu’un exploit physique... 

Un sentiment que le jeune Bembo ne semble pas avoir éprouvé pendant son 
escalade, c’est la peur: du moins n’apparait-elle 4 aucun moment dans sa relation 
(sauf dans une exclamation de Bernardo), pas plus d’ailleurs que d’autres réactions 
négatives, en dehors de la difficulté; quand il n’est pas décrit de maniére purement 
objective, 1’Etna est dit “situ, forma, magnitudine, fertilitate, incendiis mirus [...], 
conspicuus“, objet de delectatio, etc. (p. 323 b, 325 a). Il n’en va pas nécessaire- 
ment de méme dans d’autres évocations du volcan. Ainsi, moins de cinquante ans 
aprés Bembo, le dominicain Tommaso Fazello, historien de la Sicile“, entreprend 
la méme expédition, émaillée de quelques accidents et aventures, dont il laisse un 
récit plein de vie. Le volcan et son activité sont observés et décrits avec beaucoup 
de précision, mais la perception est toute différente de celle de Bembo. La ou 
celui-ci s’extasiait sur les vastes foréts des versants (324 a; et passim), Fazello se 
sent effrayé par la solitude qui y régne: 


Ubi omnia vasta, muta, et adeo deserta erant, ut vel ipsa solitudo insuetos terruerit 
animas (p. 57). 


A plus forte raison prés du cratére: 


Ea incendia dum intuerer mirarerque, horror quidam, et ingens religio adeo me coepit, 
ut nunc quoque sine horrore meminisse nequeam (p. 57) [...] timor simul nos, horrorque 
adeo vehemens invasit. (p. 58) 


La seule chose qui puisse compenser une équipée aussi insensée (“insanum hunc 
laborem” [...]; “vesanum itineris consilium” , p. 58), c’est, outre la finalité scienti- 
fique, le magnifique panorama qui permet de découvrir une grande partie de la 
Sicile, jusqu’aux cétes de la Calabre. Bembo lui-méme n’avait pas été insensible 
a ce spectacle (p. 327 b); mais, chez Fazello, celui-ci semble étre inversement 
proportionnel aux valeurs négatives dont il investit la montagne: sa seule beauté, 
c’est ce qui s’éloigne d’elle par le regard, tandis que le regard dirigé vers elle ne 
peut engendrer qu’aversion et terreur. 

Crainte et beauté se retrouvent encore chez William Lithgow, qui fait l’ascension 
lors de son second passage par la Sicile, vers 1610, en revenant d’ Afrique. Sans 
trop se perdre dans les recherches étymologiques, il interpréte d’emblée Mongibello 
comme Monte Bello, “ce qu’il est en effet”, avec ses pentes couvertes d’une 
généreuse végétation, sa cime vertigineuse et son panorama. Mais, au fur et a 
mesure qu’il s’approche des trois cratéres, son langage change: il parle maintenant 
de flammes “horribles”, de spectacle “effrayant 4 voir”, de sol “dangereux” (p. 
30). Décidément, 1’Etna semble toujours marqué par une fondamentale ambiva- 
lence. 


24. Fazello, p. 56: “quae et nos anno Salutis 1541 sexto Calend. Aug. inscendimus”. 





Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 369 


Mais tous les voyageurs qui ont vu 1’Etna ne prennent pas pour autant le risque 
de l’escalader. Hoby (pp. 46-47) et Sandys (p. 242), par exemple, disent en avoir 
eu I’intention, mais y avoir renoncé en raison de la longueur et de la difficulté de 
l’entreprise, des neiges, des brigands... Dés lors, ils préférent en donner une 
description générale, basée sur les témoignages indirects, locaux ou livresques. 

D’autres évocations sont bien plus laconiques encore, la vision de l’Etna étant 
restituée en quelques mots, un ou deux vers au maximum, et son impressionnante 
activité volcanique se résumant tout entiére 4 une sorte d’epitheton ornans, vidée 
de toute prégnance: le flammantemque ignibus AZtnam de Bohuslav Hasistejnsky, 
témoin oculaire”’, n’est pas essentiellement différent des termes utilisés par Caspar 
Ursinus Velius et Georg Sabinus”® célébrant les voyages de Johannes Dantiscus 
et de Stanislas Laski: “fumantemque ignibus AAtnam, undantemque flammis 
ardentibus 2tnam” , simples réminiscences classiques, enl’ occurrence virgiliennes 
(Georg. 1, 472-473). Nombre de voyageurs ne parviennent apparemment pas a 
écrire leur expérience personnelle du volcan d’une maniére qui se distingue des 
ceuvres de fiction, tel qu’il apparait par exemple dans la Vie de Christophe Wagner 
27 

Une telle usure ou banalisation engendrée par les mentions répétées, tribut payé 
a la célébrité, a été bien mise en exergue par le voyageur anonyme polonais de 
1595 lorsqu’il note, dans son journal latin, que “l’étranger ne s’étonne pas, parce 
qu’avant de le [l’Etna] voir, il avait déja eu connaissance du phénoméne par des 
relations précédentes”*, tout en regrettant que les Italiens eux-mémes en aient 
fait aussi peu de cas et que méme des savants répandent des informations —selon 
lui—inexactes. L’Etna, plus souvent exalté que visité, tendrait 4 assumer un statut 
presque aussi iconique que |’Hekla, n’était, malgré tout, la plus grande proximité 
géographique et son appartenance 4 I’univers culturel classique. Reste que, meme 
s’il se trouve hors des itinéraires les plus fréquentés de I’Italie, il a largement 
compensé cette situation par une vitalité littéraire rarement égalée. 


6. — Si l’Etna, malgré tout son prestige littéraire, ne se trouve pas sur les itiné- 
raires les plus fréquentés de I’Italie, il est en revanche un endroit que tous les 


25. Sur HasiStejnsky, cfr. KréSalkova, pp. 144-145 e 157. 


26. Sur Laski voyageur, cfr. Jaworska, pp. 162, 184; sur Dantiscus, Jaworska, pp. 161- 
162; IJsewijn, pp. 241-242, 245. Les vers de Georg Sabinus et de Johannes Ursinus Velius 
se trouvent respectivement dans Jaworska, p. 162, et dans N. Chytraeus, Hodoeporica sive 
itinera (Francofurti ad Moenum, 1575), p. 101: “Quid loquar undantem flammis ardentibus 
Aetnam?/ Cuius Mulciberi follibus antra gemunt/ Et cinctam canibus latrantibus inguina 
Scyllam?” 


27. In Wiemken, p. 235. 
28. Cfr. Czubek; Backvis; Bilinski; Jaworska, pp. 162-167, 184. 


370 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


voyageurs venant du Nord par voie de terre ne pouvaient pas ne pas traverser: le 
long de la route entre Bologne et Florence, sur les contreforts des Apennins, un 
hameau de Firenzuola, Pietramala, est en effet le siége de curieuses manifestations 
semi-volcaniques (des fontane ardenti): de plusieurs endroits, et notamment d’une 
montagne appelée Vulcano del Peglio s’échappent, depuis des temps immémoriaux, 
des gaz enflammés, surtout visibles la nuit ou par temps couvert”. Bien avant 
que Sade, qui était lui-méme passé par 14°°, n’y situe l’épisode du géant cannibale 
et sodomite Minski*', ce phénoméne avait sollicité la curiosité de plusieurs 
voyageurs: la plupart, tels Schrader (p. 77), Fabricius”, Lindeberg (p. 62), Hoby 
(p. 18), Van Buchel ({1902], p. 132), Vinchant ([189]), p. 415), plus tard Evelyn 
(I, 178), Lassels (I, pp. 17179), Misson (III, p. 101), etc. le mentionnent sans 
trop s’y attarder: ce n’est aprés tout qu’un lieu de passage vers des destinations 
bien plus prestigieuses! Tous ne le signalent pas, tandis que d’autres, pour l’une 
ou l’autre raison, n’ont pas eu |’occasion de le voir personnellement: c’est ce 
qu’avouent de bonne grace Georg Fabricius: 


... Solis primo cum lumine, montem [= 1’Apennin] 
Scandimus, et nebula subito prohibente, nec illum 
Qui luce emittit fumum, nocte emicat igne 
Conspicimus ... (/ter Patavinum I, p. 45, vv. 19-22) 


et Michel de Montaigne qui — pour autant que 1’on puisse reconstituer la physiono- 
mie de l’original — ajoute de sa main une note en marge de son Journal de voyage 
tenu par un secrétaire: 


Je fus 1a averty d’une sottise que j’avoy faite, ayant oublié 4 voir, 4 dix milles deca 
Loyan, a deux milles du chemin, le haut d’une montaigne, d’ou, en temps pluvieus et 
orageus, et de nuit, on voit sortir de la flamme d’une extreme hauteur; et disoit le 
rapporteur qu’a grandes secousses il s’en regorge parfois des petites pieces de monnoie, 
qui a quelque figure. I] eust fallu voir que c’estoit que tout cela*’. 


Ces piéces de monnaie crachées par une sorte de volcan ont évidemment de quoi 
géner les commentateurs modernes, prompts a y voir un simple “racontar de 
voiturier” (Dédéyan). En réalité, Targioni Tozzetti, inspectant cette région vers 


29. Sur ce phénoméne, cfr. G. Cardano, De subtilitate (Basileae, 1554), pp. 37-38; 
Targioni Tozzetti, X, 206-208; XII, 348-352; Lalande, II, 134-138; Amati, III, 761; NDGU, 
IV, 806; Casini, II, 51-64; Reclus, p. 495. Nous devons 4 l’amabilité de M. Fabio Galeotti, 
de 1’Office de Culture de Pietramala, de précieuses informations sur ]’état actuel des choses 
(cfr. lettre du 25-XI-1994). 


30. Sade, Voyage en Italie, pp. 130-131; cfr. von der Thiisen, pp. 229-231 
31. Sade, Juliette, pp. 552 et ss. 

32. Sur Fabricius, cfr. ADB, VI, 510-514; NDB, IV, 734-735. 

33. Ed. Rigolot, p.78; cfr. éd. Dédéyan, p. 484; éd. princeps (1774): II, 43. 





Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 371 


le milieu du XVIII siécle, affirme qu’on y trouvait encore a son époque 


facilmente delle medaglie di bronzo dei primi imperatori romani, statevi gettate 
verisimilmente dai passeggieri gentili, per suffragio dell’anime dei loro morti, 
affinché potessero pagare l’obolo a Caronte, per il tragetto della palude Stigia,™ 


situation en tous points conforme 4 la traditionnelle “infernalisation” des terrains 
volcaniques. Les informateurs de Montaigne ne déliraient donc pas complétement. 

Cela dit, apercus de loin ou pas apergus du tout, les Feux de Pietramala, situés 
4 plusieurs kilométres de la route et assez difficiles d’accés, semblent certes avoir 
frappé nombre de voyageurs de la Renaissance, mais pas assez pour les détourner 
d’un chemin qui devait bient6t les mener aux sanctuaires de la culture que sont 
Florence et Rome. 


7. — De Rome, certains poursuivront jusqu’a Naples, autre pdle d’attraction 
culturel et lieu d’un intense volcanisme, que nous, modernes, associons bien sir 
avant tout au Vésuve; mais il n’en allait certainement pas de méme pour les 
voyageurs des XV° et XVI° siécles. Sa derniére grande éruption assurée datait du 
XIV* siécle*; et avant son brusque réveil de 1631°°, une végétation luxuriante 
avait eu le temps de I’envahir entigrement; d’énormes chénes poussaient jusque 
dans le cratére, devenu une riante vallée ou on menait paitre les troupeaux. Plus 
bas, les versants, densément cultivés, offraient une abondance de produits de la 
terre, en particulier d’excellents vins: 


Vesuvium Baccho celebrem, multoque superbum 
Arbusto, ubertim e ramis pendentibus uvis, 
Fructibus omnigenis ..., 


comme le définira Giordano Bruno (I. I, ch. 1, pp. 313-314). D’autre part, au 
fil des générations, le souvenir méme de sa nature volcanique s’estompait presque 
complétement dans les mentalités des habitants. La plupart des témoignages tant 
écrits qu’iconographiques” attestent l’absence de toute trace de feu et de fumée, 
bien que quelques textes fassent confusément état de fumerolles. Il est vrai qu’il 
pouvait s’agir aussi d’un phénoméne intermittent. 

Le Vésuve offre le cas assez intéressant de deux perceptions radicalement 


34. X, 207; cfr. Casini, II, 51-52. 
35. Celle de 1500, basée sur ce qu’en dit Ambrogio Leone (p. 3), est controversée. 
36. Cfr. Le Hon; Alfano-Friedlander, pp. 21-22; etc. 


37. Cfr. Alfano-Friedlinder, planche 3 (extraite de l’ouvrage d’ Ambrosio Leone), planche 
4, gravure de Georg Hufnagel, reproduite ensuite par Braun-Hogenberg; gravure dans 
Sandys, p. 265; sur aucune des trois illustrations, le Vésuve ne fume, encore que, dans la 
gravure de Hufnagel, les entrelacs de la lettre j de Vesuvij rejoignent exactement le sommet 
de la montagne et peuvent suggérer l’idée d’un panache de fumée... 


372 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


différentes duméme objet. Dans une vision immédiate, intuitive, hic et nunc, c’est 
“une montagne comme les autres”**, dont la seule spécificité est de produire 
pommes, poires, olives, fraises sauvages, et surtout le célébre vin grec. C’est sous 
cet aspect agreste et bucolique qu’il se présente aux autochtones comme aux 
voyageurs, et qu’il peut passer aussi dans les élaborations littéraires, temoins Bruno, 
déja cité, Marino”, Sannazaro”, Pontano“', jusqu’au Faustbuch”. Méme 
son nom n’est pas resté inchangé: le plus souvent, on lui donne celui de Monte 
di Somma, qui désigne, stricto sensu, son sommet nord. 

Si étonnant que cela puisse paraitre, nombre de voyageurs ne le trouvent méme 
pas digne d’étre mentionné: on songera a Fichard**, André de la Vigne, Villa- 
mont“, Burchard, l’anonyme de 1588/1589, etc., tandis que Joseph Catin, en 
1568, se refuse catégoriquement et obstinément a reconnaitre le Vésuve dans le 
Monte di Somma: 


Messer Pandolfo Colenuccio, autheur, et ledict Fontenailles, translateur, sauf leur 
reverence, s’abbusent, disans que le Veseve aujourd’huy s’appelle Mont di Somi 
ou Soma, car le Mont de Soma est huict mil au dela de Naples, tirant vers la 
Calabre, et n’ay oncques ouy dire qu’il jettast feu ou flammes comme aussi ayant 
esté jusques au meillieu ny en ay veu aulcune apparence, ains seulement de vignes, 
desquelles j’ay mangé des raisins jaunastres et duretz. (pp. 16-17)** 


Il s’ingénie, quant a lui, a l’identifier avec la Solfatare! II faut se faire une raison: 
si, dans une vision moderne, Naples, son golfe et son volcan font partie d’un 
paysage unique et sont englobés dans le méme regard, — carte postale oblige! — 
pour beaucoup d’hommes de la Renaissance, en revanche, Naples et le Vésuve 
tendent, spontanément, 4 appartenir 4 deux réalités perceptives distinctes. 

Il est vrai que le Vésuve peut aussi faire l’objet d’une autre vision, différente 


38. Reclus, p. 319; Aebischer, p. 305. 


39. “Ho tante agnelle anch’io che fan le cime/ Biancheggiar del Vesuvio al par di neve”: 
La Sampogna, cit. par De Lorenzo, Vesuvio, p. 85. 


40. Cfr. Arcadia, prosa XI (p. 95): “Né mi fu picciola cagione di focosi sospiri lo 
intender nominare Baie e Vesuvio, ricordandomi de’ diletti presi in cotali luoghi”. 


41. “Fragaque servantur summo mihi lecta Vesevo”: Eridanus, II, xxiii, 11 (p. 434). 


42. In Wiemken, p. 64: “Dabei ein Berg liegt, Vesuvius genannt, der voller Weingarten, 
Olbaumen und etlicher andern fruchtbaren Baume und solcher Wein, den man der griechi- 
schen Wein nennet, so herrlich und gut”. 


43. Sur Fichard, cfr. ADB, VI, s. v.; NDB, V, 120-121. 


44. Le Somma dont parle Villamont (ff. 64 v - 65 r) désigne le Valico del Somma, entre 
Terni e Spoléte. 


45. Nous remercions notre collégue Luigi Monga de nous avoir permis d’utiliser le “pre- 
print” de son édition. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 373 


de la visionimmédiate, “populaire” et idyllique, encore que non incompatible avec 
elle: quiconque avait ne fat-ce que quelques lectures savait que cette montagne si 
paisible et généreuse avait jadis craché feu, ruine et désolation, détruit des villes 
entiéres et fait d’innombrables victimes, la plus illustre étant sans nul doute Pline 
l’Ancien. Cette vision-la, que nous pourrions qualifier de “savante” , a droit elle 
aussi en littérature, non seulement dans toute évocation livresque de catastrophes 
volcaniques, ot le Vésuve a sa place réservée dans une série*°, mais méme chez 
les écrivains qui, ailleurs, célébrent ses bienfaits. Chez Pontano, chez Sannazaro, 
le Vésuve est certes le lieu enchanteur qui fournit vin et fruits 4 profusion; mais 
cette montagne “nue et au crane chauve, affublée de deux crocs effrayants [ses deux 
sommets]”*” est aussi une terrible force assoupie®, préte a se réveiller et a faire 
exploser sa colére destructrice quand le beau Sebethos lui est ravi par une néréide: 


vindex ex antris prosilit ipse cavis 

eructansque vomit fumantis pectoris ignes 

ignibus et latos undique vastat agros 
(Parthenopeus, Il, xIv, 47-51, p. 121) 


ou quand il incarne les peines de coeur des bergers: 


Vegna Vesevo, e 1 suoi dolor raccontici. 
Vedrem se le sue viti si lambruscano 
e se son li suoi frutti amari e pontici. 
Vedrem poi che di nubi ognor si offuscano 
le spalle sue, con l’uno e ]’altro vertice; 
forse pur novi incendii in lui coruscano. 
(Arcadia, XII, vv. 82-87; p. 121)” 


Le méme chapitre de l’Arcadia contient également un grandiose développement 
sur les éruptions passées qui 
con tempestose fiamme e con cenere coperse i circostanti paesi, si come ancora i 


sassi liquefatti e arsi testificano chiaramente a chi gli vede (p.116), 


engloutissant “populie ville e citta nobilissime” , en particulier la “celebre citta un 
tempo nei tuoi paesi, chiamata Pompei””’. Quant 4 Giordano Bruno, il voit la 


46. Cfr. “Né Vesuvio, né il monte di Siciglia,/ Né Troia avvampo mai di fiamme tante” 
(Ariosto, Orlando Furioso, V, 18); cfr. aussi Marino, Adone, XVIII, 142; etc. 


47. “Ah vereor, soror, et dicam tamen: huius ab ore / curvantur geminae sannae, quarum 
altera pontum / taetra petit fluctusque ferox et litora verrit, / altera Sarastris fauces, saxa 
horrida Sarni” (Pontano, Eclogae, Lepidina, V, 256-259, p. 24). 


48. Cfr. “Ignibus urebar tacitis ut Vesuia rupes” (Pontano, Parthenopeus, I, x, p. 77). 
49. Silambruscano: si inselvatichiscono; pontici: asprigni (éd. Carrara, p. 206, n. 83-84). 


50. Cfr. Sannazaro, Opera latina, Ecloga IV, vv. 75-78: “Quid referam aut Stabias, aut 


374 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


beauté et la fertilité actuelles du Vésuve comme le résultat d’une histoire géologique 
longue et tourmentée, pleine de feu et de destruction, qu’il évoque par analepse: 


toto discrimine mundi 
Hinc abstans, fumo turpisque umbrante, nec ullis 
Muneribus pollens, nec enim sunt pome et uve, 
Nec dulces illi ficus: caret arbore et hortis, 
Obscurus, tetricus, tristis, trux, vilis, avarus. (loc. Cit.) 


Cette association des contraires se retrouve chez les voyageurs lettrés qui, 
souvent dans la méme unité du discours, opposent 4 un Vésuve présent, paisible 
et fertile un Vésuve passé, aux éruptions meurtriéres et cataclysmiques. Le destin 
tragique de Pompéi et Herculanum est souvent évoqué, la mort de Pline l’Ancien 
presque toujours, tantét, 4 l’instar de Pétrarque, relayé par Pighius et Schott*', 
pour fustiger son trop grand désir de savoir, tant6t, et plus souvent, pour plaindre 
ou admirer celui qui eut le courage d’aller “serche out the cause of yt” (Hoby, p. 

36) — déja une sorte de martyr de la recherche scientifique désintéressée. 

Si, en général, le discours sépare bien les deux niveaux chronologiques du 
Vésuve, le voyageur érudit ne peut s’empécher d’apercevoir sans cesse le plus 
ancien sous le plus récent. Au-dela de leur opposition radicale, il n’est d’ailleurs 
pas impossible de discerner une forme de continuité, qui est aussi une double lecon 
morale: rien ici-bas n’est durable, et si la Nature provoque d’atroces bouleverse- 
ments, elles les compense toujours par des bienfaits ultérieurs: 


And allthough it hath made sundry dreadfull devastations, yet the fruitfull ashes 
throwne about, did seeme to repaire the fore-going losses, with a quick and marvel- 
lous fertility. (Sandys, p. 261) 


Chez certains de ces voyageurs, ce regard “savant” porté sur le Vésuve et les 
réminiscences érudites qui l’environnent semblent en modeler la perception méme, 
jusqu’a leur faire “retoucher” la réalité observable. Ainsi, quand Fynes Mory- 
son” écrit que “in our age [/594] this Mountaine burned, and now daily fire 
breakes out of it” (IV, 77) et qu’a son sommet il y a “a gulfe casting out flames” 
(I, 233), on est en droit de se demander quel crédit accorder a cette affirmation, 
constatant que ses souvenirs ne semblent pas toujours trés précis sur ce point 
particulier: ainsi, ne parle-t-il pas d’une grande éruption du Vésuve en 1538, “with 
great gaping of the earth, and casting down part of the Mountaine” (ibid.), alors 


quae temuisse canoris / Virginibus fama est abeunteis saxa carinas? / Aut ut terrifici sonitus 
ignemque Vesevi, / Et desolatas passim defleverit urbeis?” 


51. Cfr. Petrarca, Trionfo della Fama, vv. 43-45; Pighius, p. 339; Schott (1650), p. 414. 
Sur Pighius, cfr. A. Roersch in BN, XVII, 501-509; sur Schott, cfr. A. Roersch in BN, 
XXII, 14-15. 


52. Sur Moryson, cfr. DNB, XIII, 1069-1071. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 375 


qu’il s’agit manifestement du Monte Nuovo, dans les champs Phlégréens? De 
méme, lorsque Nathan Chytraeus, visitant Naples en 1566, écrit que 


Combusta Vesevi 
Cornua, doctiloquo quondam fatalia Plinio, 
Hic etiam media fumantia conspicis urbe. 
(Iter Neapolitanum, vv. 49-51, p. 158) 


Ces deux affirmations — panache de fumée et sommet calciné visible depuis la ville 
— concordent assez peu avec ce que nous savons par ailleurs de la situation du 
volcan. Ace qu’il pouvait réellement voir, le poéte a superposé une image mentale 
du Vésuve ancien, celui de ses lectures. De méme, naviguant de nuit au large du 
cap Miséne, Chytraeus dit avoir apercu, au loin, en direction de la Sicile (“Trina- 
criam versus”) 


horrescens sinuosa per equora, montem 
Flammivomum, ardentemque procul, mox litora circum 
Sulphure Baiano tetroque bitumine fumant 
Omnia, foetenti mare late impletur odore. 
(Iter Neapolitanum, vv. 22-25, p. 156) 


Qu’il ait visé par 14 le Vésuve ou les champs Phlégréens, cette saisissante descrip- 
tion ne reproduit probablement pas une une image réaliste d’un fait observé selon 
la seule objectivité: c’est une évocation idéale, ot l’imagination doit avoir une part 
non négligeable, et ot la vérité le cede quelque peu a la poésie. Du moins ces vers 
ne manquent-ils ni de grandeur ni d’une force représentative qui, par certains cétés, 
peuvent faire songer aces magnifiques vues nocturnes du Vésuve sorties du pinceau 
de Fabris, illustrant l’ouvrage de William Hamilton, aux huiles de Volaire et a 
certaines gouaches anonymes un peu plus tardives sur le méme sujet™®, voire aux 
photos de Haroun Tazieff ou de Katia Krafft. 

Quoi qu’il en soit, d’autres voyageurs, ne se contentant pas d’une vision 
lointaine du Vésuve, éventuellement génératrice d’images trompeuses, décident 
d’aller y voir de plus prés et de se lancer dans l’ascension. C’est ce que fait Georg 
Fabricius en 1543; avec ses compagnons, il traverse, pendant la plus grande partie 
de l’expédition, les fertiles paysages maintes fois évoqués, assez abondants pour 
nourrir toute laCampanie. Seul le sommet, dans les environs immédiats du cratére, 
avec son chaos d’énormes blocs de pierre calcinés, porte témoignage d’anciennes 
éruptions: 


Convulsi circa scopuli, depastaque flammis 
Atque extrusa iacent mirando pondere saxa. 
(iter Romanum, Il, 32, vv. 12-13) 


53. Reproductions dans Krafft (1991), pp. 94-95; dans De Lorenzo, Vesuvio, pp. 62-63. 


376 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


D’autre part, Fabricius affirme qu’il arrivait que le cratére laissat échapper un 
peu de fumée, mais ne dit pas s’il a lui-méme constaté le fait: 


Ipse biceps geminum iacit ad supera ardua cornu, 
Quaque patet bifido spaciosus vertice crater, 
Emittit rarum per ceca foramina fumum. (ibid., vv. 9-11) 


Cela est en contradiction avec les informations données par Stephanus Vinandus 
Pighius, qui, vers 1550, descend dans le cratére, qu’il décrira plus tard dans son 
Hercules Prodicius (pp. 338-341), avec une profusion de détails et une scrupuleuse 
précision scientifique, qui permettent de fort bien se le représenter tel qu’il devait 
étre alors: 


In medio verticis vasta patet vorago, rotunda, velut ingentis amphitheatri quedam 
cavea: craterem vocant a forma [...]. Nam in barathrum illud ipse descendi, quo 
usque non impediebant precipitia, vel locorum obscuritas. Superius enim crateris 
labrum non secus ac amphitheatri sedilia declive terra, cineribusque superfusis fertile 
est: et viret abietibus, magnisque arboribus: ubi solis calor penetrat, atque czlestibus 
pluviis irrigatur. Inferiora vero, que sicuti fauces contrahuntur in maiores angustias: 
rupium et saxorum fragmina immania, nec non trabes et trunci prolapsarum arborum 
obstruxerunt. (p. 340)™ 


Bien qu’il n’y trouve plus aucune trace visible d’activité volcanique (“Nunc tamen 
friget, nec quippiam caloris aut fumi videtur emittere”, ibid.), il effectue une 
expérience qui montre la présence d’air chaud et, partant, de matiéres ignées dans 
le sous-sol: 


Quas tamen obstaculorum moles ignium materia interiore superante tamquam leves 
palearum fasciculos fumi flammarumque vis illa prepotens facile exturbat, et in 
celum evehit. (ibid.) 


Ce recours a l’expérience, |’induction prudente, ainsi que le caractére méthodique 
de l’observation et de l’exposé ne sont pas sans laisser présager un esprit nouveau 
dans ce domaine. 

Ce qui a contribué a donner une large diffusion aux conceptions de Pighius sur 
I’Italie en général et sur son volcanisme en particulier, c’est l’Itinerarium Italie 
de Frangois Schott® qui, dés sa premiére édition de 1600, deviendra un véritable 
best-seller européen, tant dans sa version latine, bient6t augmentée par Girolamo 
Capugnano, que dans ses traductions italiennes, francaise, anglaise, qui se succéde- 
ront jusque loin dans le XVIII* siécle. Pour ce qui concerne le Vésuve — entre 
autres,— Schott ne fait que démarquer ouvertement Pighius, auquel il n’apporte 
que peu de modifications. On remarquera que la grande éruption de 1631 ne trouve 


54. Cfr. Sandys, p. 260, qui s’inspire visiblement de Pighius; et, plus tard, Basire, p. 100. 
55. Cfr. De Beer, pp. 61, 76. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 377 


pas tout de suite de répercussion dans cet ouvrage: plusieurs années aprés |’événe- 
ment, toutes les éditions (p. ex. l’italienne de Filippo de’ Rossi, 1650) n’apportent 
pas de changement substantiel au texte. L’ adaptation ne se fera que lentement, se 
concrétisant dans |’édition de Michelangelo et Pier Vincenzo de’ Rossi, 1699, ot 
tout ce passage est fortement élagué et résumé: c’est que les considérations de 
Pighius sur les futures menaces recelées par le Vésuve n’avaient plus de raison 
d’étre, puisqu’elles s’étaient réalisées entre-temps. Pour les derniéres éruptions, 
le remanieur renvoie au livre du jésuite Recupito, paru en 1639. 


8. — Tout célébre qu’il fit dans la littérature classique, le Vésuve ne pouvait donc, 
dans I’expérience concréte et présente, que décevoir des voyageurs s’attendant a 
des manifestations plus spectaculaires et désireux, p. ex., de comprendre comment 
elles avaient pu anéantir des villes entiéres. A ce point de vue, il y avait prés de 
Naples un autre endroit, plus susceptible de répondre 4 leurs attentes: 4 l’ouest de 
la ville, jusqu’a Pouzzoles, s’étendent les Champs Phlégréens, depuis des temps 
immémoriaux travaillés par un volcanisme parfaitement visible, toujours actuel et 
préoccupant”. De surcroit, les Champs Phlégréens avaient l’avantage d’étre plus 
faciles d’accés que le Vésuve: il suffisait de traverser la “Grotta di Posillipo”, un 
tunnel percé 41’époque d’ Auguste et perfectionné par Alphonse I* d’ Aragon, pour 
déboucher tout 4 coup dans un autre monde, “where the wonderfull secrets of 
Nature are epitomized, and Art had congested together her incredible performances” 
(Sandys, p. 262). Sur un territoire réduit, on trouve en effet une extraordinaire 
concentration de curiosités naturelles et culturelles, ot les vestiges de |’ Antiquité 
— amphithéatres, thermes, arcs, citernes — parsément un paysage sans cesse torturé 
par un sous-sol explosif, qui révéle sa redoutable présence dans des sources d’eau 
chaude et sulfureuse, dans les exhalaisons de gaz, dans la Solfatare et, 4 partir de 
1538, dans le volcan du Monte Nuovo. 

Il n’est guére de séjour 4 Naples qui ne comporte aussi une excursion aux 
Champs Phlégréens (parfois, on entamait ainsi le chemin de retour vers Rome). 
L’importance qu’y accordent les voyageurs est attestée par l’ampleur de leurs 
descriptions, incomparablement plus étendues que celles qui concernent le Vésuve 
(lesquelles, nous l’avons vu, peuvent aussi étre inexistantes). Rien de commun entre 
son ascension, assez peu fréquente et sentant toujours un peu |’exploration risquée, 
et le tour des Champs Phlégréens, habituel, routinier, standardisé et d’allure déja 
fort touristique: le circuit proposé passe toujours, a peu prés, par les mémes points, 
et un role de premiére importance est dévolu aux guides occasionnels ou perma- 
nents, qui racontent toutes sortes d’anecdotes — vraies, inventées, effrayantes (ce 
qui arrive aux visiteurs indisciplinés dans les endroits dangereux...) — et se livrent 
a toutes sortes d’exhibitions pour épater le client (introduire des animaux dans la 


56. Cfr. Reclus, pp. 293-317; Ferrucci; De Lorenzo, Campi Flegrei; De Natale, Mastrolo- 
renzo, Pingue, Scarpa; Chester, pp. 302-305. 


378 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


“Grotte du Chien”, faire bouillir des ceufs dans les sources chaudes). 

La plupart des voyageurs sont ainsi amenés 4 visiter un certain nombre d’anti- 
quités romaines, telles que |’ Amphithéatre de Pouzzoles ou “Ecole de Virgile”, 
le pont de Caligula, la Grotte de la Sibylle, les Cento camerelle ou “Prisons de 
Néron”, le temple de Mercure, la Piscina mirabile, etc.: autant de monuments 
chargés d’histoire et de réminiscences culturelles et générateurs, chez les auteurs- 
voyageurs, d’abondantes citations latines. Mais la dimension naturelle des champs 
Phlégréens, en l’occurrence leur volcanisme, jouit d’un intérét au moins égal. 
Celui-ci se concentre autour de trois points forts: les mofettes (exhalaisons de gaz 
impropres 4 la respiration), en particulier la “Grotte du Chien” prés du lac Agnano, 
les bains d’eaux chaudes et sulfureuses et la Solfatare. La premiére bénéficie d’une 
attention aussi générale que morbide, les deux autres d’un discours utilitaire, 
d’ordre médical et économique; tous trois donnent lieu 4 des descriptions assez 
étendues. 

A peu prés tous nos visiteurs ont assisté d’une maniére plus ou moins active 
a l’expérience cruelle consistant a faire entrer des animaux dans la “Grotta del 
Cane” — une des Charonee scrobes de Pline,— ot ils mouraient étouffés, 4 moins 
qu’on ne les en retirat pour les rappeler 4 la vie en les plongeant dans |’eau du lac 
voisin. Impossible de dénombrer les chiens, chats, Anes, oiseaux, grenouilles ainsi 
sacrifiés sur |’autel de la badauderie touristique; quelques auteurs parlent méme 
de cobayes humains, en l’espéce des esclaves ou des malfaiteurs qui y auraient été 
jetés par Don Pietro de Toléde, le vice-roi de Naples*’, tandis que d’ autres relatent 
Vaccident mortel de M. de Tournon, victime de son imprudence, ou la misérable 
fin de quelques bravaches, “who tempted God with their desperate entrance” 
(Sandys, p. 265, d’aprés Mazzella, Pozzuoli, pp. 35-36). Ces tragiques événements 
ne servent pas nécessairement de lecon, tant ii est vrai que Pighius y pénétre par 
curiosité scientifique, non sans “iuvenili quadam audacia” (p. 349), tout comme 
Lithgow, qui préfére d’abord faire l’expérience sur lui-méme, non par respect des 
animaux, mais parce que “la personne qui se trouvait 1a 4 cet effet avec un chien 
était trop 4pre au gain” (p. 38): pour la pauvre béte, ce ne fut de toute maniére 
qu’un bref sursis. En régle générale, les visiteurs sont partagés entre |’horreur 
et la fascination, conformes 4 |’ambivalence du lieu, qui réunit dans un méme 
espace la mort et le retour a la vie. 

A Vopposé de ce “lieu sathanique ou gouffre infernal” (de la Vigne, p. 265), 
les sources chaudes et étuves naturelles (Stufe di S. Germano, di S. Gennaro, lo 
Sudatori, les bains de Baies, Tritoli,...) sont €videmment percues d’une tout autre 
maniére. Les voyageurs ne se lassent pas de s’émerveiller devant cette générosité 


57. Cfr. Mazzella, Pozzuoli, pp. 35-36; Sarnelli, p. 10; Sandys, p. 265; etc. Moryson 


attribue ce forfait 4 “don John, base sonne of the Emperour Charles the fifth” (I, 243), c’est- 
a-dire Don Juan d’Autriche. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 379 


d’une nature soucieuse de la santé des humains, ni d’en célébrer les vertus 
nombreuses et variées: 


pour chasser les mauvaises humeurs du corps, conforter les goutteux, secher les 
fistulles, ulcéres, et playes que l"homme aura receués en son corps, sans qu’il soit 
besoin y appliquer autres medicaments, et guarir ceux qui ont quelque chancre ou 
verolle (Villamont, f. 49 v.); 


mais attention: 


Who sweat here [dans les étuves de Tritoli] halfe an houre, become prone unto 
venery: insomuch that Chistian widowes and virgins are admonished by S. Jerome 
to avoid the place. (Sandys, p. 290) 


Les voyageurs de la Renaissance s’inscrivent ainsi dans une tradition célébrative 
remontant a |’Antiquité et au moyen 4ge™® (songeons a Pierre d’Eboli®, voire 
4 Benjamin de Tudéle®™), tout en y ajoutant volontiers d’érudits ornements mytho- 
logiques et rhétoriques: 


... Cynthie, parce, 
Nam tua Baiani superant inventa recessus, 
Estque vapor radice atque unda potentior herbis, 
Cumque Salute illos colit ipsa Salacia fontes. 
(Fabricius, Iter Romanum II, p. 25, vv. 19-22)" 


Beaucoup rappellent aussi l’anecdote des médecins envieux de Salerne qui, ayant 
enlevé les tableaux d’identification des bains, se noyérent en mer lors de leur 
retour. 

Mais Il’endroit le plus spectaculaire dans cette zone est sans nul doute la 
Solfatare, le Forum Vulcani des Anciens (ou Campi Phlegrq@i au sens restreint), 
un cratére semi-actif, théatre des phénoménes volcaniques nombreux et variés: 
mofettes, soufflards, fontaines ardentes, geysers, salses, ... Ceux-ci permettaient 
de donner une idée de ce qu’avait da étre un volcan en pleine activité, de se 
représenter ce qu’avaient pu étre jadis les éruptions du Vésuve. On serait presque 
tenté de parler de la Solfatare comme d’un “Vésuve de substitutions”, voyant que 
Joseph Catin assimile celui-ci 4 celle-l4. Parlant du “Mont Veseve ou Veseve”, 
c’est en réalité 4 la Solfatare qu’il référe le récit de la find’ Herculanum et Pompéi 


58. Cfr. R. T. Gunther, pp. 71-72; De Beer, p. 58. 


59. De Balneis Puteolanis. Ce petit poéme didactique, souvent reproduit (par Capaccio, 
Sarnelli, etc.) a longtemps été attribué 4 Alcadin et/ou a Eustasius: cfr. Daneu Lattanzi, 
pp. 17, 63; Kauffmann, pp. 8, 78. 


60. Benjamin de Tudéle, pp. 12; 42. 


61. Sur les deux divinités romaines Salus et Salacia, cfr. Thulin in REKA, 2. Reihe, I, col. 
2057-2059, et Witte, ibid., col. 1818-1819. 


380 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


et de la mort de Pline, 4 grand renfort de citations classiques. Cette bévue résolvait 
évidemment un paradoxe: comment d’aussi grands cataclysmes ont-ils pu étre 
provoqués par une montagne aussi paisible que le Monte di Somma? Une telle 
confusion, certes peu compréhensible chez un voyageur cultivé, ne semble toutefois 
pas avoir été aussi inexplicable qu’on serait tenté de le croire: en 1738, Francesco 
Serao se demande si 


per un iscambio assai facile di cose e di parole non fosse stato da alcuni antichi 
scrittori chiamato parimente col nome di Vesuvio alcuno degli antichi vulcani del 
territorio di Pozzuoli?, 


hypothése qui, selon lui, faciliterait l’interprétation de Lucréce, de Diodore de Sicile 
et de Plutarque”. 

Malgré tout, a part Catin, aucun voyageur n’est, a notre connaissance, tombé 
dans une erreur aussi monumentale en visitant la Solfatare. Celle-ci ne laisse pas 
de produire une impression inoubliable, faite pour l’essentiel de terreur et de 
stupeur a se trouver tout a coup dans un autre univers, aussi insolite que potentielle- 
ment dangereux. Lorsqu’ils ne sont pas purement descriptifs, c’est autour ce ces 
deux axes sémantiques que s’organisent les termes utilisés: strange, marvelous, 
rare, estonnement, non sine stupore, merveilleux a voir; et horrible, horribilis, 
horriblement, terrors, very fearful to be heard/ to behold, etc.; Catin, plus heureux 
dans |’expression littéraire que dans la topographie, parle d’un cuer saultelant d’aise 
tremblante (p. 20). C’est que le lieu n’est comme aucun autre et semble régi par 
ses lois physiques propres. Presque tous les sens du visiteur sont sollicités a la 
fois. Partout ne s’offrent aux regards que montagnes jaunes de soufre, épaisses 
fumées noires de temps a autre déchirées par le jaillissement de flammes traitresses, 
pouvant étre fatales aux imprudents ou fanfarons (“sulphuree flamme [...] poenam 
sumunt de audaculis istis”: Turler, f. 94 v.); le tout au milieu d’une terrible chaleur 
dégagée par le sol (“as hote as sufferable”, Sandys, p. 268), et de puits ou 
bouillonnent des liquides aux couleurs insolites, ot les guides n’hésitent toutefois 
pas a cuire des ceufs (Villamont, Anon. Harleian), prétendant qu’il y en a toujours 
un qui disparait mystérieusement (Hoby, de la Vigne, Alberti). Omniprésente aussi 
l’acre odeur de soufre, sulfurée et puante (Catin), infernale (Villamont), foetens 
(Cruselius), verie rank (Hoby), stinking (Anon. Harleian), Phlegethonteam exhalant 
[...] Mephitim (Chytraeus), que le vent répand bien au-dela de la Solfatare: de 
nombreux auteurs (Alberti, Turler, Moryson, Catin, Audibert,...) dérivent d’ailleurs 
Pozzuoli de puzzo plut6t que de puteus! L’ ouie aussi a a supporter sa part d’agres- 
sions: ce ne sont partout qu’explosions, crépitements, sifflements, bouillonnements, 
horrible rumbling (Sandys), roaring and tumbling (Anon. Harleian); 4 quoi s’ajoute 


62. Serao, pp. 11-12, note. Les auteurs en question sont: Lucréce (VI, 747-748), Diodore 
de Sicile (Bibliotheca historica, IV, 21); Plutarque (Del silenzio degli oracoli; en réalité, 
De Pythiae oraculis, 9, 398, et De sera numinis vindicta, 29, 566 E). 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 381 


l’étrange sensation d’un sol qui sonne creux, ce que certains visiteurs tentent 
d’exprimer par l’image du tambour (“quasi tympanum propter concavitates resonat 
et crepitat”, Pighius, p. 351) ou de l’étang gelé: 


percipis auditu quandam subterraneam concavitatem, lapidesque desuper proiecti, 
non aliter currunt (ut ita dicam) aut alium reddunt sonum, quam super glaciem 
proiecti. (Fichard, p. 84) 


Bref, la Solfatare apparait comme le lieu par excellence qui sollicite le visiteur 
de tous les c6tés et par toutes les sensations a la fois: lieu que l’on pourrait qualifier 
de synesthésique, dans le sens cumulatif que lui donne Ludwig Schrader®’. Si, 
d’autre part, on admet que l’endroit suscite aussi des réactions affectives, en 
particulier la stupeur, la crainte, l’aversion, mais aussi, parfois, une forme 
d’admiration, on ne sera pas étonné par |’ampleur des descriptions, avec leur gout 
du détail et du pittoresque. 

Ce n’est pas que toutes les évocations de la Solfatare soient construites sur le 
méme modéle. Certains voyageurs, comme Fichard, Lithgow, l’anonyme de 1588- 
1589 s’en tiennent a une description factuelle et 4 un ton plut6t détaché: celui-ci, 
chez un Pighius, se confond avec le discours d’allure scientifique. D’autres, tels 
Burchard (vol. II, p. 171) et de la Vigne (pp. 264-265), ne se préoccupent que de 
l’utilitaire et se bornent a parler de |’exploitation du soufre et de l’alun. Quant 
a Fabricius, tout le passage qu’il consacre au Forum Vulcanium (p. 28, vv. 9-21) 
est transfiguré dans un développement mythologique rattaché a la gigantomachie: 


... tentant Titania monstra 
Rumpere adhuc duras ferri luctando cathenas [ ... ] 
Suspirans propriam Tellus timet ipsa ruinam, (vv. 13-14, 16) 


solution élégante qui lui permet de passer sans tarder a la suite. Il est vrai que 
les champs Phlégréens dans leur ensemble offrent de nombreuses autres occasions 
d’étre frappé de stupeur et d’épouvante: et 4 vouloir les exprimer 4 chaque fois, 
on risque l’usure des mots. Beaucoup de ces voyageurs-écrivains semblent observer 
une sorte de mécanisme de compensation: s’ils ont dit leur réaction subjective a 
propos d’un endroit donné, ils le font moins—ou plus du tout—a propos d’un autre. 
Ainsi, p. ex., Fabricius réserve ses accents les plus dramatiques 4 un autre 
événement, un peu plus loin dans son poéme: la naissance d’un nouveau volcan. 


8. — La nuit du 28 au 29 septembre 1538 marque en effet une date dans I’histoire 
de la volcanologie en général et dans celle des Champs Phlégréens en particulier. 
C’est alors, aprés de violentes secousses, qu’une terrible éruption se produisit prés 
des lacs Averno et Lucrino, sur le territoire de Tripergoloa, 4 quelques kilométres 


63. Schrader, p. 51: “die aufzahlende, gleichzeitige Evokation von Eindrticken aus 
mehreren Sinnesgebieten”. 


382 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


de Pozzuoli: des cultures, des habitations, des installations balnéaires furent 
détruites, le lac Lucrino se trouva presque entiérement comblé; et, en l’espace 
d’une semaine 4 peine, un céne éruptif, appelé le Monte Nuovo, s’éleva a plus de 
cent métres™. Son activité cessa aussi vite que sa naissance avait été brusque et 
destructrice: quelques mois plus tard, ce n’était plus qu’une colline comme les 
autres, ne trahissant sa nature volcanique que par des fumerolles intermittentes et 
la présence d’eaux chaudes 4 sa base. L’événement, qui a été relaté par des 
témoins oculaires®, ne pouvait que frapper fortement les mentalités de 1’époque: 
ainsi, dans un élégant poéme latin paru |’année méme du cataclysme®, Jér6me 
Borgia présente celui-ci comme un avertissement du ciel — comme le fera Martin 
Opitz en 1633, aprés |’éruption du Vésuve®. 

Quant aux voyageurs, méme si aucun d’eux n’avait personnellement assisté a 
l’événement, ils n’avaient en général aucune difficulté — du moins avant 1580-1600 
— a rencontrer des personnes qui en avaient été les spectateurs directs, voire les 
victimes. L’hdte qui héberge Catin est resté “sourdeau du dernier eschept et 
degorgement” et lui “feit le conte d’iceluy” a la pleine satisfaction du voyageur. 
(p. 27). En 1543, quand les séquelles du bouleversement géologique devaient étre 
encore bien perceptibles sur le terrain et dans les esprits, c’est un guide, un marin, 
qui en fait le récit 4 Fabricius et 4 ses compagnons de route (pp. 27, vv. 6-27, et 
28, vv. 1-8): il dit avoir tout vu depuis sa barque, tandis qu’il se rendait vers le 
Sud. Son récit est rapporté en discours direct, le lecteur ayant ainsi un témoignage 
presque au premier degré, sinon de I|’auteur, du moins d’une instance 4 peu prés 
aussi crédible en raison de sa proximité des faits rapportés. On se doute bien que 
le savant humaniste a récrit de fond en comble les propos du rude homme de mer. 
Les solennels hexamétres, chargés de réminiscences littéraires, parviennent a 
brosser un tableau pathétique ou les jaillissement de feu, les détonations, les nuées 
de cendres concourent 4 créer un spectacle apocalyptique: 


Ecce sub occasum metuenda incendia solis 

Emicuere, volant A2tneo murmure flamme, 

Saxaque cum tonitru magnum per inane rotantur. 

Terra tremit, reboant crebris mugitibus aure 

Et non vicini tenuere cacumina montes. 

Insequitur cinerum glomeratus ab zthere nimbus, 
Involuitque globos flammarum, et in equora mergit [...] 
Monte videtis adhuc emergere, et ardua saxa, 


64. Cfr. Reclus, pp. 305-307; De Natale, Mastrolorenzo, Pingue, Scarpa. 

65. Cfr. Pietro da Toledo, Marco Antonio delli Falconi, Francesco del Nero. Cfr. 
Giustinani. 

66. Sur Borgia, cfr. G. Ballistreri in DB/, XII, 721-724. 


67. Vesuvius, poema Germanicum: cfr. Becker-Cantarino. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 383 


Amphitheatralem iecisse ad sidera molem. (p. 27, vv. 13-19, 25-26) 


Parmi les effets désastreux, Fabricius ou son informateur retiennent surtout la 
revanche d’une Nature redoutable et hostile qui reprend ses droits sur une civilisa- 
tion brillante, mais fragile et transitoire: 


Informem quem cernitis undique montem 

Fumare, et clauso auditis gemere intus ab igne, 

Campus agerque fuit Baccho, Cerere atque Minerva 

Fertilis, oppidulo, thermis, clarusque theatro, (p. 27, vv. 6-9) 


remodelant le paysage jusqu’a le rendre méconnaissable: 
Quod campus mare quodque fuit (mirabile) mons est. (p. 27, v. 27) 


Telle est aussi la legon qu’en tire Jéréme Turler: incroyable naissance du 
Monte Nuovo, qui est sans doute “Dei opus naturam inferiorem gubernantis” , mais 
dont les causes doivent néanmoins étre cherchées dans la nature uniquement, montre 
comment peuvent naitre soudain de de nouvelles iles et de nouveaux territoires (f. 
97 r-v), conformément 4 la conception “plutonienne” d’une terre sujette a de 
brusques transformations, ce qui permet de mieux comprendre Pline et autres 
auteurs anciens. 

La dimension humaine de la catastrophe n’échappe pas 4 bon nombre de nos 
voyageurs. Méme si Fabricius semble se désoler surtout sur la destruction de la 
Villa de Cicéron, de 1’Académie et des thermes, il n’oublie pas tout a fait les 
habitants: 


Iamque tuos flammis querimur, Tripergula, cives, 
Cum natis carisque uxoribus interceptis (p. 28, vv. 23-24); 


Villamont aussi évoque leur panique (“les habitans du pays estimoient estre la fin 
du monde” , f. 53 v.), de méme que Hoby (“not withowt the great terror of manie 
aman”, p. 33) et, plus abondamment, Sandys: 


the fearfull inhabitants of Putzol, flying through the darke with their wives and 
children: naked, defiled, crying out, and detesting their calamities. Manifold 
mischiefes have they suffered by the barbarous; yet none like this which Nature 
inflicted. But heare we it described by Borgius [...]. Nor can what they then 
suffered be ever forgotten, having such a testimony still in view as is this strange 
Mountaine. (pp. 277-278). 


A vrai dire, le passage cité de Borgia ne concerne pas du tout la détresse des 
habitants, mais uniquement les aspects physiques de l’éruption: feu, fumée, bruit, 
vacarme, naissance soudaine d’une montagne nouvelle. II faut bien constater que 
c’est avant tout cela, ainsi que son caractére incroyable, qui préoccupe les auteurs 
de 1’époque. 

Monte Nuovo, Solfatare, étuves naturelles, grottes aux gaz irrespirables: les 
Champs Phlégréens dans leur totalité sont souvent parcourus par les voyageurs de 


384 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


la Renaissance, qui peuvent méme compter sur un embryon d’organisation 
touristique. Ils sont donc nombreux a voir les mémes choses et a confronter ce 
qu’ils ont vu avec leur bagage livresque, a s’étonner, 4 s’extasier ou a s’effrayer 
aux mémes endroits, 4 écouter les mémes histoires ou boniments des guides. Dés 
lors, les relations successives qui sortent de ces visites ne peuvent, en grande partie, 
qu’étre répétitives. Aussi certains auteurs vont-ils refuser ce type de description 
exposée a la redite, en ayant recours a différentes formes de preteritio®. Chy- 
traeus, dans un enchainement d’ interrogations oratoires, invoque la disproportion 
entre l’immensité de la tache et les limitations de 1’ écriture: 


Quid tibi iam celsi fastigia montis, 

Tempore qui nostro, viginti et quattuor horis 

Planitie in lata, terram quatiente tremore 

Exsiliit, vastam iactans ad sidera molem? 

Quid tibi Cimmeriis cultum predonibus antrum, 

Quidve lacum, quem Virgilius describit Avernum, 

Quem super haud ulle poterant impune volantes 

Tendere iter pennis? Tibi quid secreta Sibyllz 

Aut Labyrintheis monstrosa ambagibus antra? 

Quid thermas tibi Baiarum? Montisque meatus 

AEstiferos intus, casaque cubilia rupe, 

Inque latebrosis quid sudatoria saxis, 

Rudera quid, Cumasque canam, celebresque ruinas? 

Singula que proprios poscunt celebranda libellos 
(Iter Romanum II, vv. 48-61; p. 164), 


tandis que Van Buchel affirme préférer se taire plut6t que de redire des choses 
incroyables: 


Quz hic viderim miracula oculos turbabant, et ingenium multitudine magnitudineque 
sui obruebant, terra, mare, ventus, quin plures ederet insolitus partus certabant, nec 
defuerant mortalium ingenia, quorum opera vix mortalia: obticuit lingua maluitque 
credere vix credenda, quam curiosa mente ingenium incasso labore defatigare. 
({1902], p. 121) 


D’autres, en toute bonne foi, intégrent dans leur propre relation celles de leurs 
prédécesseurs, explicitement ou implicitement, sous forme de citations ou de 
références: Turler reprend des passages entiers de Fichard, Moryson se référe a 
Villamont, Sandys 4 une foule d’auteurs de différentes époques... l’expérience 
personnelle n’exclut pas le recours au “déja dit”. Les voyageurs sont aussi, comme 
on sait, de grands lecteurs de livres de voyage. 


9. - Ce poids de I’intertextualité est du reste une constatation qui peut étre étendue 


68. Cfr. Lausberg, §§ 882-886 (I, 436-437). 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 385 


4 l’ensemble des sites volcaniques visités et décrits par les voyageurs renaissants. 
Ceux-ci mentionnent ou citent un nombre assez élevé d’auteurs anciens et mo- 
dernes, utilisés tant6t comme auctoritates, tant6t comme ornements rhétoriques 
ou alibis érudits. Parmi les Grecs et les Latins, c’est sans doute Pline 1’ Ancien 
qui jouit de la plus grande faveur, ainsi que Strabon, Dion Cassius, Virgile, 
Lucréce; aprés eux viennent Silius Italicus, Pindare, Pline le Jeune, Diodore de 
Sicile, Martial, Hésiode, Homére, Aristote, Théocrite, Suétone, Horace, Polybe, 
Florus, Vitruve, et aussi “Cornelius Severus”, ce poéte ami d’Ovide auquel on 
attribuait 1’4tna de |’Appendix Vergiliana”. Plus modeste est l’apport des 
écrivains post-classiques, encore que nous trouvions Pétrarque, Jéréme Borgia et 
quelques autres. La “légitimation scientifique” contemporaine est fournie au 
premier chef par Sébastien Miinster, Flavio Biondo et Leandro Alberti; pour les 
champs Phlégréens en particulier, certains voyageurs (Pighius, Sandys) font aussi 
référence au poéme “De balneis Puteolanis” de Pierre d’Eboli (m. avant 1220), 
en se trompant sur leur auteur. Quelques-unes de ces références sont tout a fait 
ponctuelles et utilisées par un seul voyageur: Catin est le seul a citer Boccace (p. 
32), et un auteur a premiére vue aussi “confidentiel” que Paolo Portarelli” a sa 
place chez Sandys (p. 267), tandis que Fichard (p. 93) cherche |’explication des 
tremblements de terre chez Marcantonio Antimaco, professeur de grec a Ferrare”’. 
La distribution de ces intertextes n’est du reste pas uniforme selon les voya- 
geurs: ils foisonnent chez Catin et chez Sandys, ce dernier ayant soin de reproduire 
les textes originaux en regard de ses traductions anglaises fort élaborées; ils sont 
moins fréquents chez Moryson et pratiquement absents de Burchard et de de la 
Vigne. La répartition est tout aussi inégale selon les lieux visités: on comprend 
que les citations proliférent 4 propos de l’Etna, des champs Phlégréens et du 
Vésuve, qui avaient déja une longue tradition littéraire, alors qu’il n’y a rien de 
comparable pour les Feux de Pietramala, ow les voyageurs peuvent tout au plus 
se référer A des prédécesseurs récents (p. ex. Van Buchel a Fabricius). A ce point 
de vue, les volcans éoliens occuperaient une position intermédiaire. 
L’intertextualité joue d’une maniére particuliére chez les écrivains-voyageurs 
qui ont laissé des hodoeporica en vers latins, qui empruntent sans cesse des 
syntagmes et fragments d’hexamétres aux modéles les plus prestigieux: fuman- 
temque ignibus (Ursinus Velius), undantemque flammis ardentibus (G. Sabinus), 
convulsi circa scopuli, depastaque flammis (Fabricius), depasti circum scopuli 


69. Cfr. Skutsch; Ellis; Goodyear; Westendorp-Boersma. 


70. Auteur (Sorrente, XVI‘ s.) de poésies de circonstance chez Mannarino et en téte de 
la Neapolitana historia de Capaccio. Cfr. Toppi, Biblioteca Napoletana (Napoli, 1678-1683), 
pp. 237, 347. 


71. Marcantonio Antimaco, de Mantoue (c. 1473-c. 1551), professeur de grec au Studio 
Ferrarese. Cfr. Cosenza, V, 99. 


386 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


(Chytraeus), miseranda pondere saxa (Fabricius), globos flammarum (Fabricius) 
amphitheatralem dans le sens d’“énorme” (Fabricius), etc., renvoient sans équi- 
voque a Virgile, 4 Lucréce, a Silius Italicus, 4 Borgia,... dans un processus 
d’imitation et d’émulation ow la notion de plagiat n’entre pour rien. Reste que 
l’expérience des volcans est prise dans un réseau serré de références littéraires qui 
font entrer le fait naturel dans une rassurante familiarité culturelle, tout en ne 
demeurant pas étrangéres a l’acte méme de 1’observation. 


10. — Mais il ne s’agit pas seulement de livres. Inévitablement, les voyageurs 
de la Renaissance devaient entrer en contact avec les innombrables légendes, 
croyances et superstitions attachées aux régions volcaniques. Celles-ci plongent 
leurs racines dans la plus haute antiquité pour se prolonger pendant le moyen Age 
et une grande partie des les temps modernes, tant il est vrai qu’en 1709 le jésuite 
Giovanni Massa s’interroge encore sérieusement sur la “‘Communicazione delle 
fiamme etnee con le infernali”” et que plus de 70 ans plus tard “un certain 
Vetrani, dans son Prodromo Vesuviano, considére le volcan comme un orifice de 
l’enfer””, comme il l’avait été chez Willibald, chez Sigebert, chez Pierre Damien, 
chez Godefroy de Viterbe”, voire dans le Faustbuch’’. Chaque éruption compor- 
tait son cortége d’apparitions diaboliques, les unes plus effrayantes que les autres: 
un autre jésuite, Recupito, aprés avoir cité longuement (pp. 50-54) et avec tout le 
respect voulu les passages de Pierre Damien sur la question, se montre beaucoup 
plus sceptique quant aux phénoménes analogues précédant ou accompagnant le 
réveil du Vésuve en 1631, car 


Magnus profecto spectrorum artifex metus. [...] Rumor incertus, et anceps de his 
sententia pro cuiusque studiis et ingenio, dictitantibus multis, apud ethnicos quoque 
horum non dissimilia vel dolo ficta, vel metu credita. (p. 55) 


D’autres auteurs sont loin d’avoir la méme circonspection, et l’un d’eux, Giulio 
Cesare Capaccio, a qui on doit une excellente description des champs Phlégréens, 
n’hésite pas a utiliser les impressionnantes manifestations de la Solfatare comme 
un argument contre les pécheurs et les hérétiques: 


Quamvis physice loqui delectet, arbitror tamen ignes, calidas aquas, sulphur, et 
bitumen Puteolana, atque ea quz in aliis locis constituta narrantur, ad Christianorum 
fidem confirmandam, ad nocentibus terrorem incutiendum, ad hereticorum audaciam 
compescendam propugnari. Discant stolidi, obtuse mentis homines, zruginem hoc 
igne aliquando purgari. Discant, qui pravis opinionibus detinentur, Inferni et 


72. Cfr. Marchese, p. 550. 

73. Cfr. Chevallier, p. 45. 

74. Cfr. Graf, “Artd nell’Etna”, cit. 
75. In Wiemken, p. 55. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénomeénes volcaniques en Italie 387 


Purgatorii ignes confiteri, quos ubique Deus maximus rerum opifex hominibus 
obiicit, ut a gehennz angustiis et laboribus longe studeant esse alienos. (IX, 3, p. 
238) 


Avouons que le terrain est propice a faire naitre les chiméres les plus fantastiques 
(cfr. aussi Basire, p. 98). 

D’une maniére presque unanime, — et sans qu’il faille voire 1a la caricature 
d’une “Renaissance laique” opposée 4 un “moyen Age avide de croire’, — nos 
voyageurs de la Renaissance refusent la référence au surnaturel dans la vision des 
phénoménes volcaniques. Quand ils rappellent que les Anciens considéraient le 
lac Averne comme un accés aux enfers paiens et que c’est la vapeur de |’ Achéron 
ou de Phlégéthon qui s’exhale par la Grotte du Chien, ce sont 14 vénérables lieux 
communs classiques, qui n’impliquent évidemment aucune croyance, pas plus qu’ils 
ne nécessitent de réfutation. Encore Cruselius éprouve-t-il le besoin de rétablir 
la vérité au sujet de l’Averne, “qu’aucun Oiseau ne pouvait survoler”, a en croire 
les poétes antiques: 


Ultimus haud adeo lacus est ingratus, ut aiunt, 
Atque ita non homines ledit odore suo, 

Vidimus hunc etenim pennis transire volucres, 
Vidimus hic nidos parturientis avis. (C5, r., vv. 3-6) 


La pensée de l’enfer chrétien se présente certes plus d’une fois a l’esprit de nos 
voyageurs, mais d’une maniére toute métaphorique, pure “facgon de parler”, comme 
chez de la Vigne (“lieu sathanique ou gouffre infernal”, p. 265), chez Villamont: 


ce qui me fist penser alors aux peines infernales, et encore bien plus estant monté 
sur ladite montagne: car la voyant brusler, et envoyer en l’air une fumee puante, 
je demeuray quelque peu 4 considerer cette chose prodigieuse [...] toutesfois peu 
apres le vent estant cessé, descendy promptement de la montagne, fuyuant ces lieux 
horribles, que j’estime plustost estre infernaux que terrestres ( f. 51 r.), 


chez |’Anon. Harleian: 


you shall see the Fire and Smoke come out of the Hill, very fearful to behold, 
resembling Hell itself, as may be imagined (p. 10), 


(ou il y a peut-étre un jeu paronymique sur hill/Hell), voire dans la poésie amou- 
reuse de Marino”. 

Rien de commun avec les croyances populaires, pour qui l’enfer ou le purgatoire 
affleurent matériellement et littéralement dans les terrains volcaniques: sous la 
Solfatare se font entendre les cris épouvantables des 4mes tourmentées, les cratéres 
de 1’Etna, de Stromboli et de Vulcano engloutissent des pécheurs bien connus, le 
Monte Cristo, prés de Bacoli, est la voie empruntée par le Christ retournant des 


76. Cfr. La Lira, 1, 19: “Alla sua donna, quando ando alla Solfatara di Pozzuolo”. 


388 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


enfers aprés la Passion, etc. Autant de superstitions ridiculisées et balayées comme 
“choses fabuleuses” et “vaine crédulité” par les voyageurs renaissants, toutes 
tendances confondues. 

Il est vrai que les plus acharnés sont les protestants, qui en profitent pour régler 
leurs comptes avec les doctrines catholiques du purgatoire, de l’intercession des 
saints, etc. Tel est le cas de Lithgow, de Moryson et surtout de Sandys; ce dernier, 
tout en condamnant vigoureusement ce genre d’histoires mensongéres, est visible- 
ment fasciné par elles: il ne peut résister 4 l’envie d’en raconter quelques-unes, 
non sans complaisance. On peut lire ainsi (pp. 248-249) comment, dans le cratére 
de Stromboli, “commonly affirmed by the Romane Catholickes to be the jawes of 
Hell”, un capitaine entend des voix réclamer a grands cris l’4me du mauvais riche 
sicilien Antonio, dont il apprend plus tard qu’il est décédé au méme moment (Cfr. 
aussi Basire, p. 113). Plus loin, 4 propos de Ia Solfatare (p. 269), il relate, d’aprés 
Capaccio, I’histoire d’un pacte diabolique conclu selon toutes les régles (“in his 
own bloud”) par un jeune homme désargenté — événement qu’il ne met pas a priori 
en doute; dans la méme foulée, il rapporte le passage ot Pierre Damien parle des 
ames damnées autorisées 4 jouir de la mitigation des peines le jour du sabbat, sous 
forme d’oiseaux noirs’’. Sandys prend bien soin de se démarquer de ses informa- 
teurs: 


as this Gentleman said (for I no otherwise report it) (p. 249); 

the Friers report; [...] they telle also the late story [...] (p. 269); 

Possible it is that this may be true; but Damianus the reporter of that which followeth 
(though a Cardinal) may have had the whetstone”, if he had not alledged his author. 
(p. 269) 


De plus, il se lave de tout soupcon d’une quelconque participation active en tirant 
une legon ironique et irrévérencieuse d’une anecdote maintes fois racontée par les 
voyageurs et sans cesse agrémentée de nouveaux détails horribles, celle du touriste 
allemand imprudent englouti par un trou de la Solfatare: 


But if this be hell, what a desperate end made that unhappy German, who not long 
since slipt into these fornaces? or what had his poore horse committed, that fell in 
with him, that he should be damned, at least retained in purgatory? (p. 269) 


Il n’empéche qu’une atmosphére surnaturelle imprégne ces lieux; et il suffit 
qu’un voyageur Ose s’aventurer dans certains endroits pour qu’aussit6t on le prenne 
pour un magicien, au grand amusement des intéressés: Catin, au sujet duquel le 
prétre et maitre d’école a “quelque petite opinion de magie” (p. 28), recoit de celui- 


77. Cfr. Graf, “Il riposo dei dannati” in Miti, pp. 185-186; d’aprés Pierre Damien, qui 
tient le récit d’Umbert. Cfr. aussi Capaccio, Antiquitates Campaniae, p. 238. 


78. Oxford English Dictionary, s.v. “Whetstone”, pp. 36-37: “in allusion to the former 
custom of hanging a whetstone round the neck of a liar”. 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 389 


ci une longue formule de conjuration, dont il se moque, mais qu’il prend quand 
méme soin de transcrire; Lithgow, sortant indemne de la Grotte du Chien, est pris 
pour un diable plutét qu’un homme (p. 38); et Pighius, dans des circonstances 
similaires, est importuné par son guide, qui ne veut pas démordre de son opinion: 


Interim ductor Italus, noster stabularius, mirari vehementer temeritatem meam, 
obstupescere successum et exitum, et rogitare non semel, an magia peritus essem; 
nec aliud sibi persuadere, quam me secretis quibusdam incantamentis presentissimam 
illam pestem averruncasse. At vero nos plebeiam hanc simplicitatem risimus affatim, 
quz magicis artibus adscribere plerumque solet opera quecumque magna, et effectus 
raros, quorum caussas non intelligit. (pp. 349-350) 


Le statut presque exclusivement populaire de ces croyances — encore que, selon 
Sandys, certaines ne soient pas “onely credited by the vulgar” (p. 280),— permet 
a ces visiteurs cultivés de les liquider sans risquer de choquer qui que ce soit dans 
leur res publica litterarum. 

Les voyageurs de la Renaissance ne font ainsi que perpétuer une tendance 
ancienne et générale 4 la démystification, présente presque dés les débuts dans la 
littérature sur les volcans: Lucréce et l’anonyme de |’4tna se gaussent déja du 
vulgaire ignorant qui voit la l’intervention de forces surnaturelles; au XIII* siécle, 
Michel Scot tient des propos rationalisants et démystificateurs” (mais, précisé- 
ment, le personnage ne sentait-il pas un peu le soufre?). C’est exclusivement la 
recherche des causes naturelles qui occupe nos voyageurs de la Renaissance, “les 
prescriptions de la religion demeurant sauves”. Ni surnaturel, ni méme extraordi- 
naire dans les volcans: telle est la legon que le vieux Bembo, parangon de sagesse, 
impartit a son fils: 


Quid est enim magnum ipsi magistre rerum omnium atque artifici nature? quid 
arduum, quid illa non potest? Qui stellas, qui solem, qui czli convexa, qui terras 
omnes ac maria, qui mundum denique ipsum, quo nihil est admirabilius, vel potius 
extra quem nihil est, quod admireris, sepe sine admiratione intuemur, 1lisdem nobis 
esse Etna miraculum potest? Cave sis tam imprudens fili, ut tu id putes: nam si 
naturam respicimus, nihil in 42tna est, quod mirum voces. (p. 326 a) 


11. — Quel sens donner a la présence du volcanisme dans les écrits des voyageurs 
de la Renaissance? Dire qu’elle ait fait avancer la science volcanologique serait 
probablement inexact. Ce n’est qu’au XVII‘ siécle, avec les Kircher, les Borelli, 
les Varenius qu’on peut a la rigueur parler de “travaux préparatoires” 4 ce qui 
deviendra un jour la volcanologie. Chez nos voyageurs, les essais d’explication 
ne vont pas, dans les meilleurs des cas, au-dela de Sébastien Miinster: ils se limitent 
le plus souvent a la restitution honnéte et naive des faits observés et a leur insertion 
dans une “prose du monde” régie par tout autre chose que des lois scientifiques 


79. Cfr. Parks, pp. 225-226. 


390 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


au sens moderne. Certains de ces textes sortent cependant du lot par leur rigueur 

descriptive et leur démarche méthodique: on songe en particulier 4 Stephanus 

Pighius, “humaniste de terrain”, qui n’hésite pas 4 prendre des risques pour 

confirmer ses hypothéses ou affiner ses observations; risques qui ne sont ni 

témérité, ni ostentation, comme on peut supposer que ce fut le cas, p. ex., pour’ 
Lithgow. 

Quel que soit leur niveau et quelques hypothéses explicatives qu’ils invoquent, 
tous semblent s’accorder a4 ne voir dans le volcanisme et manifestations voisines 
qu’un phénoméne purement naturel: mais s’ils éprouvent le besoin de réfuter et 
de ridiculiser les légendes de bouches d’enfer et d’4mes tourmentées dans les 
cratéres, c’est qu’elle devaient toujours circuler et exercer un pouvoir de séduction, 
peut-étre sur ceux-la mémes qui les rejetaient. D’autre part, une telle orientation 
“laicisante” n’est pas sentie comme incompatible avec des conceptions qui voient 
dans les éruptions un effet de la colére divine. 

D’un autre cété, la tendance vers la rationalisation n’empéche pas qu’on puisse 
étre fortement impressionné par le spectacle hallucinant de |’Etna ou de la Solfatare; 
ces réactions vont le plus souvent de la stupeur a |’effroi; mais paradoxalement, 
cette répulsion méme n’exclut pas I’attirance: personne ne se dispense d’une visite 
aux Champs Phlégréens. Malgré cela, nos voyageurs renaissants sont peu sensibles 
ala beauté qui peut se dégager des grandioses feux d’artifice naturels. Une telle 
qualification esthétique aurait sans doute eu peu de sens pour eux: la poésie du 
volcan, le “complexe d’Empédocle” la jouissance trouvée dans les coléres d’une 
nature terrifiante, préte 4 écraser I">homme, voila qui se fera encore attendre 
quelques siécles. 

“Littérature du volcan” ne peut avoir qu’un sens différent pour les écrivains- 
voyageurs qui nous occupent. Beaucoup sont prodigues d’effets rhétoriques; 
surtout, ils tendent 4 ramener l’expérience personnelle du volcanisme a des 
souvenirs littéraires. C’est méme 14 un des domaines ov |’intertextualité s’exerce 
avec le plus d’intensité: une masse d’auteurs, anciens, médiévaux et modernes, 
souvent allégués avec a-propos, viennent s’interposer entre |’ observateur et |’ objet 
de son observation, allant parfois jusqu’a conditionner celle-ci. Chez certains —p. 
ex. Catin, Chytraeus, Moryson,— selon des maniéres et a des degrés différents, 
la superposition de la réminiscence littéraire a pu étre plus forte que chez d’ autres, 
donnant lieu 4 des images manifestement idéalisées ou “gauchies”. Autant que dans 
un voyage concret et matériel, la vision renaissante du volcanisme se situe dans 
un “voyage textuel”. 


Université de Bruxelles 
REFERENCES BIBLIOGRAPHIQUES 
1. PRIMAIRES 


Aktina. A Critical Recension of the Text Based on a New Examination of MSS, with 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénomeénes volcaniques en Italie 391 


Prolegomena, Translation, Textual and Exegetical Commentary, Excursus and Complete 
Index of the Words, by Robinson Ellis (Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1901). 

Alberti, Leandro, Descrittione di tutta Italia (Bologna, 1550; nous citons d’aprés 1’éd. 
Venezia, 1596). Cfr. Alberti, Leander, Descriptio totius Italie (Colonix, 1567). 
Anonyme, A true description of what is most worthy to be seen in all Italy, In Harleian 

Miscellany, V (London, T. Osborne, 1745), pp. 1-39. 

Anonyme, Anonima diarusz peregrynacii Wtoskiej, hiszpanskiej, portugalskiej, ed. J. 
Czubek (Krakow, 1925). [voyage en 1595] 

Anonyme, Voyage de Provence et d’Italie (ms. fr. 5550-B.N. Paris), éd., introd. et notes 
de Luigi Monga (Genéve, Slatkine, 1994); “Biblioteca del Viaggio in Italia”, 49). 
[voyage de 1588-1589] 

Appendix Vergiliana. Ed. W. V. Clausen, F. R. D. Goodyear, E. J. Kenney, J. A. 
Richmond (Oxonii, E typograheo Clarendoniano, 1966), pp. 39-76: AZtna, ed. F. R. 
D. Goodyear. 

Bagni (I) di Pozzuoli, poemetto napoletano del sec. XIV, ed. Ed. Pércopo (Napoli, 1886); 
cfr. A. Altamura, Testi napoletani dei secoli XIII e XIV (Napoli, 1949). 

Balneis (De). Omnia que exstant apud Grecos, Latinos et Arabos scriptores, qui hanc 
materiam tractaverunt (Venetiis, 1553). 

[Basire, Isaac], Travels through France and Italy. Introduction and notes by L. Monga, 
text established by L. Monga and C. Hassel (Genéve: Slatkine, 1987; “Biblioteca del 
Viaggio in Italia”, 15). 

Bembo, Pietro, Ad Angelum Chabrielem De Aztna liber (Venetiis, A. Manuzio, 1496); nous 
citons d’aprés Opera, ed. Seghezzi (Venezia, 1729), IV, 320-328. 

Bembo, Pietro, cfr. Kilpatrick, Ross, “The De Aina of Pietro Bembo: A Translation”, in 
Studies in Philology, 83, 3 (1986), 331-358. 

Bembo, Pietro, De A2tna, trad. V. E. Alfieri, note diM. Carapezzae L. Sciascia (Palermo, 
Sellerio, 1981). 

Benediktsson, Jakob (éd.), Two Treatises on Iceland from the 17the Century: Porlakur 
Skilason: Responsio subitanea. Brynjélfur Sveinsson: Historica de rebus Islandicis 
relatio (Copenhagen, Munskgaard, 1943) [pp. 1-19: Skilason; pp. 20-fin: Sveinsson]. 

Benjamin de Tudéle, The Itinerary of Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela, translated and edited by 
A. Asher (London-Berlin, Asher, 1840), 2 vol. [voyage au XII* s.] 

Biondo, Flavio [1392-1463], De Roma triumphante. Rome instaurate libri II. Italia 
illustrata. Historiarum ab inclinatione Romanorum decades (Basilez, Froben, 1531). 

Blefken, Dithmar, Islandia, sive populorum et mirabilium que@ in ea insula reperiuntur, 
accuratior descriptio; cui de Groenlandia sub finem quedam adjecta (Lugduni Batavo- 
rum, Haestens, 1607). 

Bohuslav de Hassenstayn, Opuscula (1509); Farrago prima (1562, 1570 Il ed.) [voyage 
en 1490-1491]. 

Borelli, Giovanni Alfonso, Meteorologia A:tne (Regii, 1670). 

Borgia (Borgio), Girolamo, Incendium ad Avernum lacum horribile pridie Kal. Octob. 1538, 
nocte intempesta exortum (Neapoli, 1538). 

Braun, Georg; Hogenberg, Frans, Civitates orbis terrarum, 1572-1618 (repr. Amsterdam, 
Theatrum Orbis Terrarum, 1965; intr. R.A. Skelton), 3 vol. 

Bruno, Giordano, De immenso et innumerabilibus, in Opera latine conscripta, rec. F. 


392 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


Fiorentino (Neapoli, 1879), vol. I, pars 1 (reprint: Stuttagart-Bad Canstatt, 1962). 

Burchardus, Johannes, Diarium sive rerum urbanarum commentarii (1483-1506), éd. L. 
Thuasne (Paris, Leroux, 1884). 

Capaccio, Giulio Cesare, De balneis; nous citons d’aprés Graevius, IX/4 [vol. XXVI]. 

Capaccio, Giulio Cesare, La vera antichita di Pozzuolo (Napoli, Carlino e Vitale, 1607). 

Capaccio, Giulio Cesare, Neapolitana historia (Napoli, Carlino, 1607); nous citons d’aprés 
Antiquitates et historia Neapolitane, in Graevius, IX/ 2 [= vol. XXIV] et Antiquitates 
et historie Campani@ Felicis, in Graevius, IX/3 [= vol. XXV]. 

Capaccio, Giulio Cesare, Puteolana historia (Napoli, 1604). 

Catin, Joseph, De l’antiquité de Pezoles. Texte inédit d’un voyage aux Champs Phlégréens 
en 1568. Edition établie et annotée par L. Monga (a paraitre prochainement chez Slatkine 
dans la “Biblioteca del viaggio in Italia”). 

Christophori Wagners Leben, cfr. Wiemken. 

Chytraeus, Nathan (1543-1598), Voyages en Europe (Hodoeporica). Poémes latins de la 
Renaissance édités, traduits et annotés par M. Bastiaensen. Préface de Rudolf De Smet 
(Louvain, Peeters, 1994) [voyage en 1565-1566]. 

Courthope, George, The Memoirs, ed. S. C. Lomas (London, Camden Society, 1907), 
Camden Miscellany XI, 93-157. 

Cruselius, Salomon, /tinerarium Germania, Italie, Candie, Sicilia, vicinarumque insularum 
(Erphordiz, Brickner, 1617) [voyage: derniére décennie du XVIe siécle] 

Evelyn, John, Memoirs Illustrative of the Life and Writings of J. E., ed. William Bray 
(London, Colburn, 1818); ed. E. S. De Beer (Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1955). 
Fabricius, Georg, /tinera (1547; 4 partir de 1550, toujours imprimé en méme temps que 
Roma; nous citons d’aprés l’éd. Basilez, Oporinus, 1587: Roma. Antiquitatum libri 
duo. Itinerum liber I. [voyage en 1539-1543, en compagnie de Wolfgang von Werthern]. 

Faustbuch, cfr. Wiemken. 

Fichardus, Joannes, Italia [1536], in Frankfurtisches Archiv fir Gltere deutsche Literatur 
und Geschichte, ed. J. C. von Fichard (1815). III, 1-130. 

Giustiniani, L., / tre rarissimi opuscoli di Simone Porzio, di Girolamo Borgia e di Marcanto- 
nio delli Falconi scritti in occasione della celebre eruzione avvenuta in Pozzuoli 
nell’anno 1538 (Napoli, 1817). 

Graevius, Johannes Georgus, Thesaurus antiquitatum et historiarum Italie, t. ™% (Lugduni 
Batavorum, Van der Aa, 1722-1724). 

Hoby, Thomas, The Travels and Life of Sir Th. H., 1547-1564, ed. E. Powell, in Camden 
Miscellanny, X (1902). 

Jonsson, Arngrim, Opera latine conscriptaed. J. Benediktsson (Hafnia, Munskgaard, 1950- 
1957), 4 vol. (“Bibliotheca Arnamagnzana”, vol. 9-13.). 

Kircher, Athanasius, Mundus subterraneus (Amstelodami 1664). 

Lassels, Richard, The Voyage of Italy (Paris, Vincent de Moutier, 1670); Voyage d’Italie 
(Paris, Billaine, 1671). 

Leone, Ambrogio, De Nola patria opusculum (Venetiis, 1514); nous citons d’aprés 
Graevius, IX/4 [= vol. XXVI]. 

Lindebergius, Petrus, “Hodoeporicon” in 'Hévopatwy partes tres (Hamburgi, 1592), pp. 
50-78 [voyage en 1583-1585]. 

Lithgow , William, A Totall Discourse, of the Rare Adventures and Painefull Peregrinations 
of Long Nineteene Yeares Travayles, from Scotland, to the Most Famous Kingdomes in 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénomeénes volcaniques en Italie 393 


Europe, Asia and Affrica (London, N. Okes, 1632); nous citons d’aprés la version 
néerlandaise: Willem Litgouws 19-jarige Lant-Reyze (Amsterdam, Jacob Benjamin, 
1653), que nous traduisons. 

Loffredo, Ferrante, Le antichita di Pozzuolo, et luoghi convicini (Napoli, Longo, 1626). 

Magnus, Olaus, De gentium Septentrionalium variis conditionibus (Rome, 1555). — Nous 
citons d’aprés |’éd. de Bale, 1567. 

Mannarino, Cataldo Antonio, Glorie di guerrieri e d’amanti, poema heroico; Aggiuntavi 
una breve Oliganthea delle lodi dell’istesso principe, con gli argomenti di Lodovico 
Chiari (Napoli, G. G. Carlino- A. Pace, 1596). 

Mazzella, Scipione, Descrittione del regno di Napoli (Napoli, Cappello, 1586). — Nous 
nous référons a l’éd. de Naples, 1601. 

Mazzella, Scipione, Sito ed antichita di Pozzuolo e del suo amenissimo distretto (Napoli, 
1596); nous citons d’aprés l’éd. de Graevius, IX/4 [= vol. XX VI], Urbium Puteolorum 
et Cumarum descriptio]. 

Misson, Maximilien, Voyage d’Italie (La Haye, 1688). — Nous nous référons 4 1’éd. 
d’Amsterdam, 1743. 

Montaigne, Michel de, Journal de voyage en Italie, éd. F. Rigolot (Paris, P.U.F., 1992); 
éd. Ch. Dédéyan (Paris, Les Belles Lettres, 1946); éd. A. D’Ancona: L’J/talia alla fine 
del secolo XVI: Giornale di viaggio di Michele di Montaigne (Citta di Castello, 1895). 
Ed. princeps: Journal de voyage en Italie, avec les notes de M. de Querlon (Rome, 
et se trouve a Paris, Le Jay, 1774). 

Moryson, Fynes, /tinerary (London, Beale, 1617); ed. J. MacLehore, Glasgow 1907-1908. 

Miinsterus, Sebastianus, Cosmographia universalis (Basilez, 1550). 

Peerse, Gories, “Gories Peerse’s Gedicht van Island”, ed. W. Seelmann, in Jahrbuch des 
Vereins fiir niederdeutsche Sprachforschung, TX (1883), pp. 110-125. [d’aprés la 
réédition de 1594 d’une éd. princeps de 1561 env.]. 

Petrus de Ebulo, Nomina et virtutes balneorum, seu de balneis Puteolorum et Baiarum, 
introd. A. Daneu Lattanzi (Roma, Ist. Poligr. dello Stato, 1962). 

Peucer, Conrad, Commentarius de precipuis generibus divinationum (Wittenberge, 1560; 
éd. princeps: 1553). 

Pighius, Stephanus Vinandus, Hercules prodicius seu principis iuventutis vila et peregrinatio 
(Antverpiz, Plantin, 1587); nous citons d’aprés 1’éd. de Cologne, 1609. [1* voyage: 
1547-1555; 2° voyage, comme précepteur de Charles de Cléves: 1571-1575]. 

Pontano, Giovanni Gioviano, Carmina, ed. J. Oeschger (Bari, Laterza, 1948). 

Portius, Simone, De conflagratione agri Puteolani (Florentiz, 1551). 

Recupito, Giulio Cesare (s.i.), De Vesuviano incendio nuntius (Lovanii, 1639) 

Sade, D., Quvres complétes (Paris, Cercle du Livre Précieux, 1963), vol. VIII. 

Sade, D., Voyage d’Italie, éd. G. Lely et G. Daumas (Paris, Tchou, 1967). 

Sandys, George, A Relation of a Journey begun An. Dom. 1610 (London, Barrett, 1615; 
nous citons d’aprés 1’éd. de Londres, Allot, 1627). 

Sanfelicius, Ant., Campania (Amsteledami, Blaeu, 1656). 

Sannazaro, Iacopo, Opera Latina (Amsteledami, Wetstenius, 1689). 

Sannazaro, Iacopo, Opere, éd. Enrico Carrara (Torino, UTET, 1952). 

Sannazaro, Iacopo, Opere volgari, éd. Alfredo Mauro (Bari, Laterza, 1961). 

Sarnelli, Pompeo, Guida de’ Forestieri, curiosi di vedere e d’intendere le cose pit notabili 


394 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


di Pozzoli, Baja, Miseno, Cuma, ed altri luoghi convicini (Napoli, Giuseppe Roselli, 
1697). [bilingue, it.-frang.] 

Saxo Grammaticus, Danorum historia (Lutetie Parisiorum, 1514; nous citons d’aprés 1’éd. 
de Bale, 1534). 

Schottus, Franciscus [parfois faussement attribué a son frére, Andreas Schottus], /tinerarium 
ltalie@ (Antverpiz, Plantin, 1600). 

Schottus, Franciscus, /tinerario d’Italia (Roma, Filippo de’ Rossi, 1650); /tinerario d’ltalia 
(Roma, M. A. e P. V. Rossi, 1699). 

Schraderus, Laurentius, Monumentorum Italie ...que hoc nostro seculo et a Christianis 
posita sunt libri quatuor (Helmestadii, J. L. Transylvanii, 1592). 

Skilason, P., cfr. Benediktsson (1943). 

Smith, Richard, “The Grand Tour of an Elizabethan”, in Papers of the British School at 
Rome, VII, 3 (1914), 92-113. 

Sveinsson, B., cfr. Benediktsson (1943). 

Turlerus, Hieronymus, De peregrinatione et agro Neapolitano (Strasbourg, 1574) in H. 

Pyrckmair, De arte peregrinandi (Noriberge, 1591, ff. 37-107). 

Ursinus Velius, Gasp., “Genethliacon Joannis Dantisci” in Poemata (Basilez, 1522). 

Van Buchel, Aernout, /ter Italicum, éd. R. Lanciani, Archivio della Regia Societa Romana 
di Storia Patria, XXIII (1900), 5-66; XXIV (1901), 50-93; XXV (1902), 103- 135. 

Varenius, Bernhardus, Geographia universalis (Amstelodami, 1650). 

Vigne, André de la, Le voyage de Naples, éd. A. Slerca (Milano, Universita del Sacro 
Cuore, 1981) [accompagne Charles VIII en 1494-1495]. 

Villamont (Jacques, Les voyages du seigneur de Villamont (Paris, Montr’ceil et Richer, 
1600; nous citons d’aprés l’éd. de Paris, Jean Richer, 1609). 

Vinchant, Frangois, “Voyage de Frangois Vinchant en France et en Italie, du 10 septembre 
1609 au 18 février 1610”, éd. F. Hachez, in Bulletin de la Société Royale Belge de 
Géographie, XX (1896), 285-330; 389-432; XXI (1897), 23-61; 133-167; 232- 261; 
359-394. 

Wiemken, Helmut (éd.), Doktor Fausti Weheklag. Die Volksbiicher von D. Johann Faust 
und Christoph Wagner (Bremen, Schiinemann, 1961). 

Ziegler, Jacob, Terre Sancta, quam Palestinam vocant, Syria, Azgypti et Schondie 
doctissima descriptio (Argentorati, Wendelinus Richelius, 1579). 


2. SECONDAIRES 


ADB = Allgemeine deutsche Biographie (Leipzig, Danker & Humblot, 1875-1912), 46 vol. 
+ Suppléments. 

Aebischer, Paul, “Esp. volcan, it. vulcano, fr. volcan: une conséquence de la découverte 
de 1’ Amérique centrale”, Zeitschrift fiir romanische Philologie, LXVII (1951), 299-318. 

Alfano, G. B. e I. Friedlander, Die Geschichte des Vesuv (Berlin, Reimer, 1929. 

Amati, Amato, Dizionario corografico dell’Italia (Milano, Vallardi, s. d.). 

Arveiller, A.. c.r. de Aebischer. Le francais moderne, XXI (1953), 71-74. 

Arveiller , A., “Volcans, mot colonial frangais” , Le francais moderne, XVIII (1950), 245- 
246. 

Atkinson, Geoffroy, La littérature géographique francaise de la Renaissance. Répertoire 
bibliographique (Paris, Picard, 1927). — Supplément (Paris, 1936). 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 395 


Bachelard, Gaston, La psychanalyse du feu (Paris, Gallimard, 1949; 1972), pp. 28-40. 

Backvis, Claude, “Le journal de voyage d’un polonais dans I’Italie et "Espagne de 1595”, 
Le Flambeau (1953), n® 3-4. 

Baedeker, Karl, Southern Italy (Leipzig, Baedeker, 1877). 

Krieg”, Daphnis, XI, 3 (1982), 501-518. 

Beckmann, Johannes, Literatur der dlteren Reisebeschreibungen. Nachrichten von ihren 
Verfassern, vonihren Inhalte, vonihren Ausgabe nebst eingestreuten Anmerkungen uber 
madncherlei gelehrte Gegenstande (Gottingen, 1807-1809; reprint: Genéve, Slatkine, 
1971, 2 vol.). 

Benediktsson, Jakob, “Arngrimur Jonsson. En islandisk humanist omkring ar 1600”, in 
Alenius, Marianne, et al., Latin og Nationalsprog i Norden efter Reformationen, 
Konference 1987 (Copenhagen, 1991), pp. 93-103. 

BG = Biographie générale (Paris, Didot, 1857-1866), 46 vol. 

Bilinski, B., “Il periplo della Calabria nel diario di un viaggiatore polacco del 1595”, 
Magna Grecia (1983), n® 7-8. 

BN = Biographie nationale [de Belgique] (Bruxelles, 1866-1939), 27 vol. et Suppl. 

Boucher de la Richarderie, Gilles, Bibliotheque universelle des voyages (Strasbourg, 1808), 
6 vol. 

Bullard, Fred Mason, Volcanoes of the Earth (Austin-London, University of Texas Press, 
1976). 

Cali, Francesco, “L’Etna e la sua poesia. Dalle Lettres sur la Sicile del marchese di Foresta, 
un viaggiatore francese che vi é salito nel 1805”, in Kanceff-Rampone, Viaggio nel 
Sud, pp. 571-579. 

Casini, Stefano, Dizionario biografico geografico storico del Comune di Firenzuola (Firenze, 
Campolmi, 1914). 

Céard, J.-M. et Margolin, J.-C. (éd.), Voyager a la Renaissance. Actes du Colloque de 
Tours, 30 juin - 13 juillet 1983 (Paris, Maisonneuve, 1987). 

Chester, David, Volcanoes and Society (London, Arnold, 1993). 

Chevallier, Elisabeth, “La Diffusion de l’information par la littérature de voyage au XVIII° 
siécle: le Vésuve et les phénoménes volcaniques”, Revue de littérature comparée, LV, 
1 (1981), 39-53. 

Cortelazzo, Manlio et Paolo Zolli, Dizionario etimologico della lingua italiana (Bologna, 
Zanichelli, 1980 et ss.), vol. V, s. v. “vulcano”. 

Cosenza, Mario Emilio, Biographical and Bibliographical Dictionary of the Italian Human- 
ists and of the World of Classical Scholarship in Italy, 1300-1800 (Boston, Hall, 1962- 
1967), 6 vol. 

DBI = Dizionario biografico degli Italiani (Roma, Istituto dell’Enciclopedia Italiana, 1960- 
1943), 42 vol. publiés. 

De Beer, E. S., “Francois Schott’s /tinerario d’Italia” , The Library, XXIII, 2-3 (1942), 
57-84. 

De Lorenzo, Giuseppe, / Campi Flegrei (Bergamo, 1909). 

De Lorenzo, Giuseppe, Jl Vesuvio (Bergamo, Istituto Italiano d’Arti Grafiche, 1931; 
“L’Italia artistica”, n. 110). 

De Natale, Giuseppe, Giuseppe Mastrolorenzo, Folco Pingue, Roberto Scarpa, “I Campi 
Flegrei e i fenomeni bradisismici”, Le Scienze, 306 (1994), 32-43. 


396 MICHEL BASTIAENSEN 


Dibon, Paul et Frangoise Waquet, Gronovius, pélerin de la République des Lettres: 
recherches sur le voyage savant au XVIF siécle (Genéve, Droz, 1984). 

DNB = Dictionary of National Biography (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1917-1922), 
22 vol. + Suppléments. 

Fazio, Enzo Giorgio, “La letteratura odeporica nel Settecento. Itinerari epistemologici- 
bibliografici” in Heitmann, Klaus et Teodoro Scamardi, Deutsches Italienbild und 
italienisches Deutschlandbild im 18, Jahrhundert (Tibingen, Niemeyer, 1993), pp. 102- 
E14. 

Ferrucci, Fabrizio, “Faudra-t-il un jour évacuer Naples?”, La Recherche, n° 274 (mars 
1995), 305-309. 

Floriani, Piero, “La giovinezza umanistica di Pietro Bembo”, Giornale storico della 
letteratura italiana, CXLIII (1966). 

Graf, Arturo, Miti, leggende e superstizioni del medio evo (Torino, Loescher, 1925). 

Gunther, Robert William Theodore, A Bibliography of Topographical and Geological Works 
on the Phlegrean Fields (1908). 

Giinther, S., “Il cardinale Pietro Bembo e la geografia” , in Atti del Congresso Internazionale 
di Scienze storiche (Roma, 1904), X, 55-68. 

Hamilton, William, Campi Phlegrei (Naples, 1776). 

IJsewijn, Jozef, Companion to Neo-Latin Studies. Part 1: History and Diffusion of Neo-Latin 
Literature (Leuven University Press, Peeters, 1990). 

Jaworska, Krystyna, “Appunti sui viaggiatori polacchi in Sicilia dal XVI al XIX secolo”, 
in E. Kanceff et R. Rampone, Viaggio nel Sud, pp. 161-185. 

Kanceff, Emanuele e Roberta Rampone (éd.) Viaggio nel Sud. I: Viaggiatori stranieri in 
Sicilia (Genéve, Slatkine, 1988). 

Kauffmann, C. M., The Baths of Pozzuoli. A Study of the Medieveal Illuminations of Peter 
of Eboli’s Poem (Oxford, Cassirer, 1959). 

Kovacs, Sandor Ivan, “Le immagini del vulcano in Miklés Zrinyi e 1’‘Ode all’Etna’ di 
Scipione Herrico”, in Acta Litteraria Academie Scientiarum Hungarice, XXIII, 1-2 
(1981), 98-106. 

Krafft, Maurice, Guide des volcans d’Europe (Neuchatel-Paris, Delachaux et Niestlé, 1974). 

Krafft, Maurice, Les feux de la terre: histoires de volcans (Paris, Gallimard, 1991. 

KréSalkova, Jitka, “La Sicilia vista dai Cechi”, in Kanceff-Rampone, Viaggio nel Sud, pp. 
143 -159. 

Lalande, Joseph-Jér6me, Voyage d’un Francois en Italie en 1765-1766 (Venise-Paris, 1769). 

Lausberg, Heinrich, Handbuch der literarischen Rhetorik. Eine Grundlegung der Literatur- 
wissenschaft (Miinchen, Max Htiber, 1960). 

Le Goff, Jacques, La Naissance du purgatoire (Paris, Gallimard, 1981). 

Le Hon, Henri-Sébastien, Histoire compléte de la grande éruption du Vésuve de 1631 
(Bruxelles, Muquardt, 1866). 

MacPhail, Eric, The Voyage to Rome in French Renaissance Literature (Saratoga, ANMA 
Libri, 1990). 

Marchese, Pasquale, “L’Etna tra credenza e scienza”, in Kanceff-Rampone, Viaggio nel 
Sud, pp. 549-567. 

Mercalli, G., 1 vulcani attivi della terra (Milano, Hoepli, 1907). 

Mollat, Michel, Les Explorateurs du XIIF au XVF siécle (Paris, 1984). 


Voyageurs de la Renaissance et phénoménes volcaniques en Italie 397 


Naselli, M., “L’eruzione etnea descritta dal Bembo”, Archivio Storico per la Sicilia 
Orientale, X, 1 (1934). 

NDB = Neue deutsche Biographie (Berlin, Danker & Humblot, 1953-1990). 

NDGU = Vivien de Saint-Martin, Nouveau dictionnaire de géographie universelle, 
continué par L. Rousselet (Paris, Hachette, 1879-1900), 7 vol. + 2 vol. suppl. 
Parks, George B., The English Traveler to Italy, vol. 1: The Middle Ages (to 1525). (Roma, 

Edizioni di Storia e letteratura, 1954). 

Penrose, B., Travels and Discovery in the Renaissance, 1420-1620 (Cambridge, 1952). 

Peschel, Oscar, Geschichte der Erdkunde (Miinchen, Gotta, 1865). 

Pine-Coffin, R. S., Bibliography of British and American Travel in Italy to 1860 (Firenze, 
Olschki, 1974). 

Reclus, Elisée, Les volcans de la terre (Bruxelles, Société Belge d’Astronomie, 1906- 1910). 

REKA: Pauly-Wissowa, Real-Encyclopddie der klassischen Altertumswissenschaft (Stuttgart, 
1894 et ss.). 

Roersch, Alphonse, “Pighius”, BN, XVII (1903), 501-509. 

Roersch, Alphonse, “Schott, Francois”, BN, XXII (1914-1920), 14-15. 

Schneider, Karl, Zur Geschichte und Theorie des Vulkanismus (Prag, Koch, 1908). 

Schrader, Ludwig, Sinne und Sinnesverkniipfungen. Studien und Materiale zur Vorgeschichte 
der Syndsthesie und zur Bewertung der Sinne in der italienischen, spanischen und 
franzosischen Literatur (Heidelberg, 1969). 

Serao, Francesco, Istoria dell’incendio del Vesuvio, accaduto nel mese di Maggio del 
MDCCXXXVII, scritta per l’Accademia delle Scienze (Napoli, Novello de Bonis, 1738). 

Skutsch, “Cornelius Severus” in REKA, IV (1901), 1509-1510. 

Targioni Tozzetti, Giovanni, Relazione d’alcuni viaggi fatti in diverse parti della Toscana 
per osservare le produzioni naturali, e gli antichi monumenti di essa (Firenze, Cam- 
biagi, 1768-1769). 

Tazieff, Haroun, Les volcans (Paris, Delpire, 1961), et les innombrables autres ouvrages 
du méme auteur. 

Toppi, Nicolo, Biblioteca napoletana (Napoli, Antonio Bulifon, 1673). 

Travi, Ernesto, “Pietro Bembo tra lettere e scienza” in Letteratura e scienza nella storia 
della cultura italiana (Padova, 1978). 

Tresoldi, Lucia, Viaggiatori tedeschi in Italia, 1452-1870. Saggio bibliografico (Roma, 
Bulzoni, 1975-1977). 

Von der Thiisen, Joachim, “Juliette und der Vulkan. Uberlegungen zu Marquis de Sade”, 
Merkur. Deutsche Zeitschrift fir europdischen Denken, XLV, 1, n° 502 (1991), 221-232. 

Waetzold, W., “Die Kulturgeschichte der Italienreise” , PreuBische Jahrbiicher, 230 (1932), 
13-24. 

Wartburg, W. von, “Vulcanus” in Franzdsisch Etymologisch Worterbuch, XIV (1957), 639- 
642. 

Westendorp-Boersma, R. E. H., “Ow en est aujourd’hui l’énigme de l’Appendix Vergilia- 
na?”, in Vergiliana. Recherches sur Virgile (Leiden, Brill, 1971), III, 386-421. 
Wiegand, Hermann, Hodoeporica. Studien zur neulateinischen Reisedichtung des deutschen 
Kulturraums im 16. Jahrhundert. Mit einer Bio-Bibliograpie der Autoren und Drucke 

(Baden-Baden, 1984). 


FRANK LESTRINGANT 


Une fiction archéologique: 
le tombeau de Cicéron a Zante, 
de Favolius a Thevet 


Siécle des grandes découvertes et de I’élargissement du monde connu, le XVI° siécle 
est aussi celui del’ approfondissement du passé, par les entreprises complémentaires 
de la philologie et de la grammaire d’une part, de l’archéologie naissante et de 
Vhistoire de l’autre. Or, de méme qu’il existe alors des fictions cartographiques, 
qui sont le fruit de l’imposture ou, le plus souvent, d’une prospective trop 
audacieuse, |’on observe, durant cet essor d’une Renaissance européenne, ce que 
j appellerai des fictions archéologiques: monuments trop vite exhumés, inscriptions 
hativement déchiffrées, preuves fabriquées en vue d’impératifs politiques ou tout 
simplement touristiques et commerciaux. L’invention du tombeau de Cicéron a 
Zante va permettre d’éclairer certaines des implications d’un tel phénoméne. La 
lenteur de l'information, malgré les possibilités récentes offertes par l’imprimé, 
le retard de la culture de vaste diffusion sur la culture savante, l’absence de contréle 
sur des nouvelles 4 sensation vont permettre aux initiatives personnelles de se 
multiplier, aux découvertes prétendues de fleurir, inspirées par des mobiles plus 
Ou MOinNs purs, toujours significatifs pourtant d’un désir d’exalter et d’enrichir, mais 
aussi de dépasser le savoir des anciens. 

En 1566 était publiée 4 Paris une traduction des Epistres familieres de Marc 
Tulle Ciceron pere d’eloquence, “au moins la dix-septiéme” du genre, selon Michel 
Simonin'. Commencée par Etienne Dolet, l’entreprise venait d’étre conduite a 
terme par le polygraphe Francois de Belleforest, travailleur infatigable alors en mal 
de reconnaissance sociale. L’épitre liminaire adressée “Au Seigneur André Thevet, 
abbé de Madion, et excellent Geographe” indiquait sans ambiguité le contexte 


1. Frangois de Belleforest, Les Epistres familieres de Marc Tulle Ciceron Pere d’eloquence. 
Faites francoises par E. Dolet et F. de B. (Paris, V. Norment et J. Bruneau, 1566) (ex. 
Bibl. de la Société d’Histoire du Protestantisme: 13122; Folger Shakespeare Library, 
Washington). La dédicace est datée du 1* juin 1566. Voir Michel Simonin, Vivre de sa plume 
au XVF siécle. La carriére de Francois de Belleforest (Genéve, Droz, 1992), p. 81; 
bibliographie, n° 24. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


L’Invention du tombeau de Cicéron a Zante 399 


personnel de ce travail érudit’. Le désir d’étre enfin récompensé d’un labeur le 
plus souvent anonyme et mal stipendié le disputait au sentiment de découragement. 
Que d’ambitions décues révélaient ces quelques pages, ow le traducteur exprimait 
tout bonnement son souhait d’“étre tiré par la main a ce feste de gloire, auquel 
naturellement tous les hommes aspirent”! 

L’aveu d’une aspiration aussi légitime n’excluait pas toutefois les marques d’une 
reconnaissance déclarée envers “l’excellent Géographe”. C’est en effet Thevet qui 
avait introduit Belleforest dans la clientéle du procureur-général Gilles Bourdin, 
généreux mécéne et féroce pourchasseur d’hérétiques’. Rendu célébre par ses 
voyages au Levant et plus encore au Brésil ou il avait accompagné le chevalier de 
Villegagnon dans |’aventure de la France Antarctique du Rio de Janeiro (1555-1556), 
Thevet était devenu en 1559 le précepteur des enfants de Gilles Bourdin, charge 
qui, s’ajoutant 4 quelques prébendes, lui assurait sinon l’aisance, du moins une 
certaine sécurité matérielle. Or Thevet avait au moins une raison d’aider son jeune 
ami en l’introduisant dans le cercle de ses protecteurs: Belleforest était en fait son 
“négre” littéraire. C’est lui qui, dés 1554, avait permis la mise au point de la 
Cosmographie de Levant, relation qui devait moins a l’expérience oculaire du pélerin 
qu’a la compilation des bons auteurs, 4 commencer par Pline, Hérodote et les Adages 
d’Erasme*. C’est encore Belleforest qui, dans le courant des années 1560, ouvrit 
le vaste chantier de la Cosmographie universelle, qui devait s’interrompre aprés 
la brouille des deux amis en 1568, avant d’engendrer, sept ans plus tard, deux 
ceuvres homonymes et rivales?. 


En attendant, la déférence que trahit 1’épitre liminaire du petit Cicéron portatif de 
1566 est poussée jusqu’al’abnégation. L’essentiel du propos de Belleforest consiste 
en effet 4 monter en épingle une prétendue découverte archéologique de Thevet: 
celle du tombeau de Cicéron dans l’ile de Zante, alias Zakynthos, dans la mer 
Tonienne, alors sous sujétion vénitienne. Voici dans quelles circonstances se serait 


2. Voir dans l’appendice la transcription intégrale de cette épitre. Sur les circonstances de 
sa rédaction, voir M. Simonin, Joc. cit. Cf. mon introduction 4 André Thevet, Cosmographie 
de Levant (Genéve, Droz, 1985), pp. XXVIII-XxXX, ainsi que mon étude: André Thevet, 
cosmographe des derniers Valois (Genéve, Droz, 1991), ch. II, pp. 169-170. 


3. Sur Gilles Bourdin, voir André Thevet, cosmographe des derniers Valois, op. cit., 1991, 
ch. V, p. 131-133. 


4. Pour ce qui est du montage des sources dans la Cosmographie de Levant, voir, outre mon 
édition critique déja citée, L Atelier du cosmographe ou l’image du monde a la Renaissance 
(Paris, Albin Michel, 1991), ch. m1: “Lecons antiques: un Orient livresque”. 


5. André Thevet, La Cosmographie universelle (Paris, L’Huillier et Chaudiére, 1575), 2 
vols in-fol.; Francois de Belleforest, La Cosmographie universelle de tout le monde. Auteur 
en partie Munster (Paris, Chesneau et Sonnius, 1575), 3 vols en 2 t. in-fol. Sur ces deux 
ouvrages paralléles et antagonistes, voir André Thevet, cosmographe..., op. cit., ch. VI. 


400 FRANK LESTRINGANT 
faite cette “invention” remarquable: 


L’asseurance de cecy m’est par vous donnee, qu’en certaine place, pres un port 
de mer, qui est en ladite Isle, auquel il fut tué par les gens de Marc Antoine, ainsi 
que lon y cavoit pour dresser les fondemens d’un edifice, pour quelqu’un des 
magnifiques de Venise, on trouva une pierre longue et large, laquelle estoit 
soustenue de quatre colonnes, le tout estant d’un fort beau marbre blanc: et sous 
icelle furent trouvez trois vases de verre, appellez des Latins urnae, lesquels 
estoyent estoupez, et cimentez avec fort grand artifice. Ces vases estoyent pleins 
de cendre fort menue et subtile, qui monstroit que s’estoyent les cendres de 
quelqu’un des anciens, lesquels on brusloit pour la magnificence de leurs obseques: 
pource vous regardastes au fonds desdits vases, esquels vous trouvastes les trois 
lettres tant cogneués, a scavoir, M.T.C. qui vous feirent soudain penser que c’estoit 
le tombeau du pere d’eloquence Latine: joint qu’il y avoit une table de plomb, 
escrite en lettres plus grossettes, et Romaines avec leur liaison 4 l’antique, que 
vous ne peustes lire: tant y a que ce mot Ciceron y estoit notamment exprimé®. 


Belleforest concluait non sans quelque servilité 4 1’adresse de son protecteur et ami: 


Moy, qui ne desire que l’ecclercissement des choses, et qui prens plaisir a faire 
chose aggreable 4 plusieurs, ay soudain embrassé ceste histoire funeralle de 
Ciceron, et sous vostre aveu l’ay donnee au Lecteur, a fin qu’il vous en scache 


gré, et qu’il vous en remercie. 


Thevet lui-méme, dans tel chapitre de sa Cosmographie universelle’ , reprendra 
assez précisément cette version des faits - dont Belleforest, de toute évidence, n’est 
ici que I’interpréte complaisant. La complicité forcée dont il faisait preuve en jouant 
le role de porte-parole officiel du cordelier archéologue ne pouvait que lui valoir 
par contrecoup et la reconnaissance de |’intéressé et quelque parcelle de la gloire 
qu’il escomptait pour son ainé. 

La “révélation” ne dut pas convaincre outre mesure, car Thevet, dans le passage 
indiqué de la Cosmographie universelle, juge bon de multiplier les garants et témoins: 
“Allemans et Polaques” de sa compagnie, “plusieurs Grecs, et quelques Turcs 
marchands passagers”, qui, tous, auraient pu attester la vérité de ses dires. Un 
bois gravé est alors ajouté a la description, qui illustre de point en point le 
programme iconographique esquissé par Belleforest: 4 l’abri d’une dalle formant 
toiture et soutenue par “quatre petits piliers de marbre a la Dorique”, les trois urnes 
de verre, “ayant chacune deux pieds ou environ de haulteur” , portent sur leur base 
les initiales bien distinctes: “M. T. C.” 


6. Belleforest (éd.), Epistres familieres de Marc Tulle Ciceron, op. cit., f. *iij v-*itij r. 


7. André Thevet, Cosmographie universelle, op. cit., t. Il, livre XVIII, ch. 7, f. 790 v*. 


L’Invention du tombeau de Cicéron a Zante 401 


Cette seconde version de la découverte “funérale” tourne au plaidoyer pro domo: 
“Et n’eusse point creu a |’opinion des Insulaires, ny de ceux qui nous firent telle 
parade, n’eust esté que nous vismes certaines lettres escrites contre la Sepulture, 
lesquelles estoient la plus grand part mangees et effacees: par ot l’on peult cognoistre 
qu’il n’y a rien de menterie.” 

L’indice supréme de véracité n’est pas dans la précision du message transmis. 
Il réside au contraire dans son brouillage: il faut le flou du vécu pour faire croire 
a la réalité de l’expérience, le “bougé” de la prise de vue pour rendre sensible au 
lecteur |’instant de la découverte. Montaigne affinera le procédé, lorsqu’au terme 
de l’essai “Des Cannibales” il mettra en scéne, entre les sauvages et lui, un interpréte 
lourd et lent 4 traduire. En outre, une mémoire infidéle, dont il se plaint souvent 
et qui lui fait perdre l’une des trois réponses du roitelet indigéne, ajoute paradoxale- 
ment un surcroit de présence a cette scéne peut-tre inventée et 4 coup sir embellie®. 
Dans le cas présent, la table de plomb aux caractéres ligaturés et illisibles dont parle 
Belleforest, les lettres 4 demi “mangées et effacées” qu’évoque ensuite Thevet dans 
sa Cosmographie conférent un supplément d’authenticité 4 1’exhumation du “Pére 
d’Eloquence”. Les initiales figurant sur les trois urnes n’emporteraient guére la 
conviction, si elles n’étaient complétées par une inscription rendue indéchiffrable 
par le temps, I’humidité et l’usure des choses. Dés lors que le matériau funéraire 
résiste et que l’invention sépulcrale se dérobe, la preuve est faite: il n’y a dans tout 
cela “rien de menterie” . 

Il est pourtant curieux que Thevet n’ait pas accordé a un épisode aussi chargé 
de sens la moindre allusion dans la relation de son voyage au Levant, qui est aussi 
son premier ouvrage publié. La Cosmographie de Levant, qui évoque en passant 
“l’Isle de Legente”’, est parfaitement muette sur ce point. Bien plus, le pélerin 
précise que le navire ow il avait embarqué passa au large, de peur des Barbaresques 
a lVaffat, toujours préts 4 surgir des anfractuosités de la céte. Aprés une 
escarmouche au sortir de la mer Adriatique, les voyageurs poursuivirent en droiture 
jusqu’en Créte: “nous eslongnans tousjours des rivages, et plages, tenans le fil, 
et profond de l’eaue”. Est-ce l’indice du regard distant que |’auteur a porté 4 un 
livre “dressé” en fait par les soins d’un autre? Mais cet autre étant, selon toute 
vraisemblance, le méme Belleforest, si empressé en 1566 a divulguer les mérites 
de l’apprenti archéologue, on ne s’explique pas davantage les causes de son silence 
initial. Il est donc probable que |’invention des cendres de “Marc Tulle” est une 
forgerie tardive dont l’idée n’est venue 4 Thevet qu’aprés 1554. La suite de 
l’enquéte va confirmer cette hypothése. 


8. Montaigne, Essais,1, Xxx1, éd. P. Villey (Paris: P.U.F., 1968), p. 214. Voir sur ce point 
Michel de Certeau, “Le lieu de l’autre Montaigne: ‘Des Cannibales’,” Le Racisme, mythes 
et sciences. Pour Léon Poliakov (Paris, 1981), p. 193-196. 


9. A. Thevet, Cosmographie de Levant, ch. VI, p. 33. 


402 FRANK LESTRINGANT 


Quoi qu’il en soit et toutes proportions gardées, ce fait divers de grande 
conséquence sur le plan symbolique est un peu |’équivalent de ce que fut en 1533 
la prétendue découverte par Maurice Scéve du tombeau de la Laure de Pétrarque 
dans une chapelle de l’église des fréres mineurs d’ Avignon. L’insolite rendez-vous, 
par-dela les siécles, avec l’illustre défunt(e) apparait comme un rite d’ “autorisation” 
par contact immédiat. En cet avatar humaniste de l’incubation médiévale, l’autorité 
se transmet, de personne a personne, du mort au vivant. Entermes plus prosaiques, 
mais cette explication réaliste n’exclut pas la précédente, méme chez un esprit 
calculateur et passablement mythomane comme Thevet, une découverte de cette 
sorte est destinée a attirer |’attention du public éclairé sur la personne - encore 
modestement connue - d’un “diligent recercheur des antiquitez”, ainsi que le qualifie 
Belleforest. 

Cette page d’archéologie mythique connait ensuite autant d’avatars que I’ceuvre 
méme de Thevet. Dans les Vrais Pourtraits et Vies des Hommes illustres de 1584, 
le chapitre consacré 4 “Marc Tulle Ciceron” ne saurait évidemment passer sous 
silence cette circonstance merveilleuse: les trois urnes de verre se réduisent désormais 
a deux, cependant que |’“autopsie” (ou vue par soi-méme) du cosmographe est 
réaffirmée dans toute sa force. Au passage la mention de Lezante est prétexte a 
un coup de patte lancé a Francois de Belleforest qui, dans sa refonte de la 
Cosmographie de Sébastien Miinster, a “faussement laissé par escrit” que ile 
appartient au Turc et non aux Vénitiens’’. 

La version ample de la Cosmographie universelle se retrouve tout entiére dans 
Le Grand Insulaire et Pilotage, atlas inachevé datant de la vieillesse du cosmographe 
et comprenant trois cents cartes d’iles accompagnées d’abondants commentaires 
manuscrits. La description de la sépulture de Lezante, qui regagne a présent l’urne 
perdue, s’augmente d’une invective a1l’adresse du “funerailler Guichard” , coupable 
d’avoir omis, dans son traité des Funerailles, et diverses manieres d’ensevelir des 
Rommains, Grecs, et autres nations, tant anciennes que modernes, |’ extraordinaire 
invention du cosmographe''. De fait, dans son savant traité dédié 4 Charles- 
Emmanuel, duc de Savoie, le “docteur és droits” Claude Guichard avait pourfendu 
sans ménagement I’archéologue amateur, déclarant fausses les nombreuses épitaphes 
collationnées dans la Cosmographie, ruinant les assertions de Thevet concernant 
les tombeaux supposés de Périandre, d’ Artémise et de Dioméde’’, prouvant de toutes 


10. A. Thevet, Les Vrais Pourtraits et Vies des Hommes illustres (Paris, Vve J. Kervert, 
1584), t. I, livre vil, ch. 128, f. 604 r. 


11. A. Thevet, Le Grand Insulaire et Pilotage [circa 1586-1588], t. 1, Paris, Bibliothéque 
Nationale, Ms fr. 15453, f. 29 r-v. 


12. Claude Guichard, Funerailles, et diverses manieres d’ensevelir des Rommains, Grecs, 
et autres nations, tant anciennes que modernes (Lyon, Jeande Tournes, 1581), p. 275: “Qui 
me fait d’autant plus douter de deux (épitaphes), que Thevet amene en sa Cosmographie 
(Liv. 18, chap. 8 et 10). Le premier est de Diomedes, qu’il dit avoir veu 4 deux lieués environ 


L’Invention du tombeau de Cicéron a Zante 403 


les maniéres possibles la faible culture humaniste de l’antiquaire autodidacte. Au 
milieu de ces vives répréhensions, qui visaient également Pline et, parmi les 
Modernes, Budé, Belon, Scaliger, Hotman, pas un mot du tombeau de Cicéron. 

Or Thevet était décidément fier de son “invention”. Dans Le Grand Insulaire, 
il déclarait tout de go: “[...] j’ay descouvert le tombeau de ce grand et fameux 
Orateur Ciceron, vray pere de |’eloquence latine’’”. Mais c’était pour préciser 
ensuite que cette découverte prétendue n’était en fait qu’une redécouverte. Dans 
les récits jumeaux de la Cosmographie et de l’Insulaire, Thevet se représente au 
milieu d’un groupe de touristes de toutes provenances, auxquels des guides 
improvisés s’empressent, moyennant finances, de faire visiter les curiosités du lieu. 
Parmi celles-ci, le déja célébre monument funéraire de l’orateur. L’identification 
du tombeau par Thevet n’est donc que la confirmation apportée par un demi-docte 
a la rumeur locale. La sépulture de Cicéron fait déja l’orgueil et la célébrité de 
Zante, quand Thevet y débarque - ou n’y débarque pas - un beau jour de l’an de 
grace 1549. La reconnaissance effectuée in situ aboutit 4 donner crédit 4 une légende 
déja bien établie: 


Lors me vint en memoire, qu’il estoit vraysemblable ce que les Grecs et Latins 
insulaires m’avoient dict et asseuré, scavoir que c’estoient les cendres de ce grand 
Orateur Romain Ciceron, le corps duquel fut la apporté, apres estre occis, bruslé 
et reduit en cendre, 4 la maniere des Anciens". 


Les trois initiales fameuses gravées sur la base de chacune des trois urnes et plus 
encore, on l’a vu, l’inscription indéchiffrable figurant “contre la Sepulture” achévent 
de convaincre le visiteur d’une “découverte” , qui n’est guére plus, en définitive, 
qu’une authentification. On voit donc le chemin parcouru depuis |’épitre obséquieuse 
de Belleforest, qui attribuait sans ambiguité l’invention premiére de la sépulture 
a Thevet. 


d’Athenes . [...] Comme si Diomedes avoit esté enseveli au pais d’ Attique, et non pas aupres 
de Corinthe, ot le sepulcre se voyoit encor du temps de Pausanias. Mais quant a 1’autre 
de Periandre, qu’il dit avoir veu en un village nommé Androsia en Laconie [...], il m’est 
fort suspect pour plusieurs raisons, tant pour sa longueur, que pour en estre |’invention 
vulgaire, tenant bien peu de la grace qu’on recongnoit en une infinité d’autres: je laisse a 
part les fautes qui y sont [...]”. Cf. p. 381: “[...] Thevet en sa Cosmographie estime avoir 
veu le sepulcre de la Roine Artemise 4 l’une des portes de la ville de Rhodes, joingnant 
les murailles assez pres du port. Mais aussi bien le se peut il imaginer 14, comme il faict 
le Mausolee, pres d’Halycarnasse, et non pas dedans, et la statue d’Artemise, qui marquoit 
la cité de Rhodes en signe de servitude, sur une petite montagne qui est aupres, au lieu qu’elle 
estoit posee en l’une des plus apparentes places de la ville.” 


13. A. Thevet, Le Grand Insulaire, op. cit., t. 1, f. 29r. 


14. A. Thevet, Cosmographie universelle, t. 1, livre XVI, 7, f. 790v. Cf. Grand Insulaire, 
loc. cit., ou le passage est littéralement repris. 


404 FRANK LESTRINGANT 


De fait, “invention” du tombeau de Cicéron est nettement plus ancienne. 
Elle remonte trés exactement au premier décembre 1544. Ce jour-la, Fra Angelo, 
prieur d’une congrégation de fréres mineurs installés 4 Zante, comme il faisait 
creuser les fondations de leur futur monastére auprés de la chapelle consacrée a 
la Madonna delle Grazie, non Icin du rivage de la mer Ionienne, dégagea une stéle 
en forme de sacellum d’ordre toscan et une urne cinéraire accompagnée d’un 
lacrymatoire'’. Plusieurs années avant que Thevet ne prenne la mer pour les lieux 
saints au mois de juin 1549, la prétendue sépulture avait fait l’objet d’une certaine 
publicité dans |’Europe des humanistes. Dés 1546 Fra Desiderio Legname, frére 
mineur et professeur de lettres originaire de Padoue, la visita 4 son retour de Candie 
et en parla au monde savant. II publiait bientdt 4 Venise une plaquette illustrée 
de deux figures, l’une représentant la stéle gravée, |’autre l’urne cinéraire et le petit 
lacrymatoire. Sur la stéle se lisait en particulier cette sentence d’un latin trés 
approximatif: M. TVLLI CICERO / HAVE / ET TV”. 

Dans son Hodoeporicum Byzantinum publié 4 Louvain en 1563, Hugo Favolius 
reproduisait les deux gravures, les révélant ainsi au public cultivé du nord de 
l’Europe'’. Le texte latin de cet itinéraire versifié d’un voyage 4 Constantinople 
montre que le tombeau de Zakynthos constitue 4 1’époque une attraction touristique 
de premier ordre. Tout a la fois objet de curiosité et but de pélerinage, le saint 
sépulcre du Pére d’éloquence latine fait partie des étapes obligatoires de tout voyage 
organisé en Méditerranée orientale. Un gardien préposé a la visite du site s’exécute 
pieusement de son office: 


Urbe vetus media, atque aliud de marmore templum 
Funigero sacrum Diuo conspeximus illic. 

In quo circum oculis dum lustro singula ductis, 

Et nobis fidus veterum monumenta recludens 
AEdituus, stupidis miracula multa recenset, 

Divini paruam Ciceronis protulit urnam: 
Monstravitque locum nobis, faciemque sepulcri, 
Scite elementorum sculptis in marmore formis, 
Omnia quae cernis binis expressa tabellis'®. 


15. Je dois ces renseignements 4 André Deisser, Sur la route de Constantinople. Le premier 
livre de l’Hodoeporicum Byzantinum (1563) de Hugo Favolius, thése Université de Liége, 
1992, p. 10-11. 


16. Sepulchri facies M. T. Ciceronis paucis ante annis in Zacyntho insula reperti et a F. 
Desyderio Lignamineo Patavino in lucem aediti (Venise, J. Griffi, 1557), in-4° de 5 p. 


17. Hugo Favolius, Hodoeporici Byzantini libri III autore Hugone Favolio (Louvain, S. 
Sassenus, 1563) (BN: Yc 9309), f. 100 r. 


18. Ibid., f. 99 r-v. Je remercie Christian Barataud d’avoir vérifié et transcrit pour moi ce 
passage, dont on peut proposer la traduction suivante: “Au milieu de la ville nous apergimes 


L’Invention du tombeau de Cicéron a Zante 405 


On voit que les incertitudes en matiére d’épigraphie, loin de constituer l’apanage 
de Thevet et de son scribe, étaient monnaie courante en ce milieu du XVI° siécle. 
Les faussaires de tous poils y trouvaient |’ occasion révée pour fabriquer les objets 
et les “monuments” dont la vogue nouvelle de |’ antique rendait les touristes friands. 
Le crédule Favolius nous raméne a Francois de Belleforest et a la tardive 
“révélation” de 1566. Il est impensable que ce connaisseur averti de la littérature 
italienne et néo-latine en provenance de la péninsule, qui, dans les mémes années, 
entreprend de traduire Bandello, I’auteur 4 succés des Histoires tragiques, ait ignoré 
l’occasionnel de frére Desiderio ou l’un ou |’autre de ses dérivés. Dés lors, |’ épitre 
du Cicéron portable conjugue au faux le mensonge par omission. En annexant a 
la gloire naissante de Thevet une “invention” archéologique déja diffusée dans toute 
l’Europe des doctes, Belleforest ne pouvait prétendre en imposer a la classe restreinte 
des literati, 4 méme de lire et d’écrire le latin. En revanche, cette découverte, qui 
n’en était plus une pour les érudits d’Italie ou de Flandres, était encore inédite pour 
le plus large public des amateurs avides de nouveautés, mais incapables d’accéder 
sans intermédiaire aux trésors de l’humanisme. C’est 4 cette classe nombreuse des 
demi-doctes, bourgeois et gentilshommes, hommes et femmes pratiquant la seule 
langue vulgaire, que sera destinée par la suite la vaste production littéraire, de 
seconde ou de troisiéme main, sortie de la forge du Commingeois. Sur ce nouveau 
marché, qui connait une expansion phénoménale au cours du XVI° siécle, Thevet 
et Belleforest se livreront plus tard une concurrence féroce. En attendant, leurs 
efforts réunis sont parvenus a rendre une actualité bien éphémére 4 une “invention” 
qui remontait 4 plus de vingt années. 

On remarque que de Fra Desiderio 4 Thevet, la mise en scéne funéraire s’est 
singuliérement enrichie. La pauvre stéle est remplacée par un monument a colonnes, 
unique urne multipliée par trois, comme si les progrés du tourisme avaient entrainé 
un effort d’imagination de la part des habitants de Zante et la mise au jour de 
nouveaux vestiges, aussi suspects que les premiers'’. C’est peut-étre l’indice d’une 
composition de fantaisie ou l’emprunt a4 une source non retrouvée. 

Quoi qu’il en soit, les précautions dont Thevet fait preuve dans ses ouvrages 
ultérieurs se comprennent aisément. S’il renonce, au moins partiellement, a 


un vieux temple et plus loin un autre, de marbre, consacré a une Divinité funébre. Dans 
ce dernier, pendant que nos yeux se posent sur chaque détail, et que le fidéle gardien, ouvrant 
les monuments des anciens, nous stupéfie 4 raconter mainte merveille, voila qu’il nous a 
présenté une petite urne du divin Cicéron, et montré |’endroit et l’aspect de son tombeau, 
composé de figures sculptées en marbre, que l’on voit représentées dans les deux planches 
qui suivent.” 


19. C’est parmi les “Inscriptiones falsae vel alienae” que Théodore Mommsen a rangé 
l’invraisemblable stéle de Fra Desiderio Legname et Hugo Favolius (C./.L., Mm, 1873, n° 
22, p. 5; cité par André Deisser, op. cit., p. 11, n. 2). 


406 FRANK LESTRINGANT 


s’attribuer la paternité de la découverte de Zante, c’est qu’avec la multiplication 
des voyages au Levant et de la littérature sur le sujet, la sépulture de Cicéron est 
entrée depuis longtemps dans le domaine public. II lui reste l’essentiel: la visite 
en personne a des lieux éminemment sacrés. Se prévalant de cette expérience 
précieuse, mais fort incertaine en vérité, il en tire, en méme temps qu’un surcroit 
d’autorité, la confiance dans I’époque présente et dans les ressources presque infinies 
qu’elle offre aux esprits rares et curieux. Telle est en définitive la legon euphorique 
de la Cosmographie: 


Je ne m’esbahis, si les Anciens et bons esprits Ciceroniens ont mis en silence le 
lieu et sepulture, ot reposoit le corps de ce grand Orateur, veu qu’il n’a esté 
descouvert que de mon temps. Voyla comment les siecles se passent, durant lesquels 
et de jour en jour on descouvre choses les plus admirables du monde”. 


La petite histoire rejoint alors la grande et l’épisode infime retrouve sa juste 
place dans I’hymne que la Renaissance s’adresse 4 elle-méme. Le rite d’autocélé- 
bration vient d’emprunter le détour nullement anecdotique du Pére d’éloquence latine. 
Car au lieu de servir “l’autorité de Cicéron”*', comme on aurait pu s’y attendre, 
il la détourne 4 des fins toutes nouvelles. Retrouvé au fond d’une sépulture 
improbable, réduit a trois initiales accompagnées d’une formule de salutation a 
l’adresse des vivants, le grand nom est employé au profit et 4 la gloire des Modernes 
inventifs. 


Université Charles de Gaulle-Lille II 


20. A. Thevet, Cosmographie universelle, t. i, f. 790v-791r (en réalité, f. 770-771). 


21. J’emprunte cette expression a Jean-Pierre Néraudau, éd., L’Autorité de Cicéron de 
l’Antiquité au XVIIF siécle (Orléans, Editions Paradigme, 1993). 


L’Invention du tombeau de Cicéron a Zante 407 
APPENDICE 


Epitre liminaire de Francois de Belleforest 
aux Epistres Familieres de Marc Tulle Ciceron Pere d’Eloquence 
(Paris, Vincent Norment et Jeanne Bruneau, 1566) 
[exemplaire de la Bibliothéque de |’Histoire du Protestantisme francais] 


AU SEIGNEUR / ANDRE THEVET, ABBE / DE MADION, ET EXCEL- 
LENT / Geographe: Francois de / Belleforest S. 


MONSIEUR, si I’art, la nature, et l’experience me rendoyent si bon maistre, 
que guidé de l’une je peusse estre le gouverneur de l’autre, avec les addresses de 
la troisieme, il y a long temps que je me fusse mis sur le Theatre le plus excellent, 
auquel les hommes plus illustres ont monté avec les degrez de vertu, travail et 
diligence. Mais ayant besoin du secours de chacun, me suis arresté au bas, attendant 
qu’on me tire par la main a ce feste de gloire, auquel naturellement tous les hommes 
aspirent. Ce pendant que je suis en ceste attente, et que le / f. *ij v° / desir est plus 
haut que mes forces, j’embrasse ores un auteur, tantost un autre: lesquels (pource 
que je n’ose rien dire du mien, pour ne demeurer sifflé au ranc mesme plus bas 
ou je suis) je tasche a faire parler Francois le moins mal qu’il m’est possible. Enquoy 
si je gaigne quelque louange, c’est la seule satisfaction, que le ciel et fortune m’ont 
jusques icy departy de mes travaux, quelques longs et penibles qu’ils ayent esté, 
et quelque temps que j’y puisse avoir employé. Or comme j’estois sur le poinct 
de quitter le jeu, et me retirer partie content, et partie despité des essais vains par 
moy attentez: Voicy quelque mien amy, qui me prie instamment de faire un bien 
au public, de suyvre le maniement des affaires de ce monde, non en |’escole d’une 
cour, ow tant de bons et suffisans esprits font service 4 la majesté de nostre Roy, 
et Prince souverain: mais dans les livres de ceste fontaine et source d’eloquence 
Ciceron, lors qu’il communique les affaires de l’estat de la Republique de Rome 
4 ses amis, et que reci-/ f. *iij r° / proquement il recoit d’eux un office et 
deportement semblable. Au commencement je doutay d’y mettre la main, voyant 
que la grace de ces hommes Romains qui escrivent 4 Ciceron, et moins la fluidité 
de cest Orateur ne pouvoit estre exprimee, par ce que j’ay de rude et grossier en 
mon langage. Et que aussi ce seroit trop hardiement 4 moy entreprins de vouloir 
parachever ce qu’un si excellent que Estienne Dolet, homme tel que chacun d’entre 
les scavans a cogneu pour une clarté de nostre siecle, avoit desfrisché, et commence 
4 labourer avec honneur et gloire. A la fin vaincu de prieres, et attiré par grand’ 
importunité, ay mis en nostre langue tout ce que Dolet avoit oublié, ou laissé 4 son 
escient en la traduction des Epistres de Ciceron, que vulgairement on appelle 
Familieres. Et d’autant que n’a pas long temps nous estions sur le propos de ce 
grand Romain, qui en a par ses escrits fait vivre une infinité d’autres, et qu’en 


408 FRANK LESTRINGANT 


discourant ne trouvions homme qui eust jusques 4 ce temps esté si di-/ f. *1ij v° 
/ -ligent recercheur des antiquitez, jusques 4 nous faire entendre le lieu de la 
sepulture de cest si excellent citoyen, et bon chef d’une telle cité que fut Rome de 
son temps: Vous m/allastes faire largesse de vos memoires, entre lesquelles je 
trouvay que Marc Tulle Ciceron fut enterré en1’Isle de Lezante, dite jadis Zacinthe 
par les Grecs, laquelle est en Grece, 4 l’opposite de la Moree, dite anciennement 
Peloponnesse, et laquelle Isle pour le jourd’huy est de la Seigneurie de Venise. 
L’asseurance de cecy m’est par vous donnee, qu’en certaine place, pres un port 
de mer, qui est en ladite Isle, auquel il fut tué par les gens de Marc Antoine, ainsi 
que lon y cavoit pour dresser les fondemens d’un edifice, pour quelqu’un des 
magnifiques de Venise, on trouva une pierre longue et large, laquelle estoit soustenue 
de quatre colonnes, le tout estant d’un fort beau marbre blanc: et sous icelle furent 
trouvez trois vases de verre, appellez des Latias urnae, lesquels estoyent estoupez, 
et clmentez avec fort grand artifi-/ f. *iiij r° / -ce. Ces vases estoyent pleins de 
cendre fort menue et subtile, qui monstroit que s’estoyent les cendres de quelqu’un 
des anciens, lesquels on brusloit pour la magnificence de leurs obseques: pource 
vous regardastes au fonds desdits vases, esquels vous trouvastes les trois lettres 
tant cogneués, a scavoir, M. T. C. qui vous feirent soudain penser que c’estoit le 
tombeau du pere d’eloquence Latine: joint qu’il y avoit une table de plomb, escrite 
en lettres plus grossettes, et Romaines avec leur liaison a l’antique, que vous ne 
peustes lire: tant y a que ce mot Ciceron y estoit notamment exprimé. Moy, qui 
ne desire que l’ecclercissement des choses, et qui prens plaisir 4 faire chose 
aggreable 4 plusieurs, ay soudain embrassé ceste histoire funeralle de Ciceron, et 
sous vostre aveu l’ay donnee au Lecteur, a fin qu’il vous en scache gré, et qu’il 
vous en remercie. Ce-pendant pour plus grand’ recognoissance, et en signe de nostre 
amitié de long temps commencee, et longuement maintenue, vous fais present du 
tra-/ f. *iiij v° / -vail, et de l’effect de la peine que j’ay prins 4 tourner cest auteur, 
a fin que le lisant vous voyez que celuy qui ne peut estre imité, laisse toutefois un 
desir 4 chacun de cognoistre sa perfection en quelque sorte que ce soit: et si ne 
puis approcher au bien dire de |’auteur Latin, a tout le moins tasche-je de le faire 
parler le plus propre et moins contraint Francois qu’il a esté en ma puissance, 
suyvant assez la diction du Latin en ma langue, et ne tordant point le nez aux 
sentences. Vous l’accepterez de tel coeur que vous |’ offre le meilleur de vos amis, 
lequel prie Dieu vous donner en santé longue vie et prosperité. Escrit a Paris le 
premier de Juin, 1566. 


Vostre affectionné, et prest 4 vous obeir, 
F. de Belleforest. 


GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


Goodbye Columbus: Madame Du Boccage 
and the Migration of Identity 
(Or: Not Exactly “La Vie de Marianne”) 


The relation between identity formation and exoticism might seem unpromising, 
were it not they are so often found in each other’s service. The exotic provides 
a stage or showcase for alternative identities, the very positing of whose difference 
from the home culture in turn helps define the latter’s identity. Conversely, the 
establishment of a given cultural, social or national identity typically defines a certain 
space of familiarity, outside of which all else is ipso facto perceived as “exotic.” 
Travel is one name for the negotiation of these spaces; translation is another; cultural 
appropriation yet another. Still, the kinds of negotiation remain to be named, from 
forms of entrenched xenophobia to rampant xenophilia, and from primitivist nostalgia 
to the “progressivism” of much colonialist ideology. None of these categories, 
of course, is as simple or as unequivocal as they might at first seem. Xenophilia, 
among others, is one whose study demands the greatest hermeneutic suspicion. 
For what superficially seems admiring or appreciative of otherness often conceals 
motives of appropriation, resentment or condescension. The theme of the “bon 
sauvage” is an evident case in point, as is the long line of Europeans, from Marco 
Polo to D. H. Lawrence, whose adventures abroad led them to “go native” in some 
way. The phenomenon of cultural “crossdressing” as often reasserts an underlying 
national identity as much as it undermines it. Who is more British than Lawrence 
of Arabia? Or more American than the coffee-drinking, croissant-eating, Gauloises- 
smoking returnee from a junior year abroad in France? To the uncomprehending, 
ethnocentric tourist whose travel is carefully, ironically, scripted to evade contact 
with foreign peoples, as well as their food, culture and language, there corresponds 
the traveler whose wanderlust is motivated less by a desire for otherness than by 
a flight away from the home and/or the search for a home away from home. I’ve 
often argued, of course, that the very concept of home is dependent upon travel 
insofar as the move away from home is what retroactively defines the place of 
departure as home.' Translated into the question of identity formation, this 


1. See my Travel as Metaphor: From Montaigne to Rousseau (Minneapolis: University of 
Minnesota Press, 1992) and “Sightseers: The Tourist as Theorist,” Diacritics, 10:3 (1980), 
3-14. 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


410 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


hypothesis yields the suggestion that (national, social, or cultural) identity is also 
paradoxically a function of one’s departure from it. And indeed, there is nothing 
like stepping outside one’s milieu or homeland to acquire a sense of one’s 
identity—whether one likes it or not! 

In fact, what needs to be examined are the conditions for the kinds of identity 
formation linked to changes of milieu. Certainly, one of the values of the Grand 
Tour was the strong sense of national identity it would have imparted as a capstone 
to the young man’s education. Its lesson, according to Rousseau’s Emile, is precisely 
that the best of all countries and the place where one should reside is none other 
than one’s own fatherland.” The operative schema, here, is the development of 
a sense of cultural superiority in one’s national identity through a ritualized visit 
toarather determined and inevitably abjected set of foreign places. The gentleman 
on the Grand Tour thus bears more than a passing resemblance to the modern, 
“ugly” tourist. He is, in fact, the latter’s historical prototype. We are speaking, 
though, of a small and obviously privileged group—men of the nobility and upper 
bourgeoisie—whose sense of empowerment was presupposed and whose departure 
abroad was comforted by the security of a home that was also truly one’s castle. 
Concomitantly, the return home would have empowered these travelers even more, 
not only psychologically through their sense of cultural superiority, but also 
economically through the development of foreign contacts and socially through the 
clout their foreign-acquired knowledge and experience must have exerted over wives, 
children, servants and other subalterns. In addition, their communal bonds to other 
men of privilege were strengthened by the social rite de passage of the Grand Tour, 
especially since they would have all visited the same sites, most probably in the 
very same order, as dictated by the accredited guidebooks (some of which remained 
in use for generations). 

But what about those that were not so empowered? Those without a home, 
or for whom the home was neither safe nor pleasant? Those whose identity was 
of no consequence, or of ill consequence? The case of JeanJacques Rousseau, among 
others, is of obvious interest for what it has to tell us about the sometimes transient 
lifestyle of the underclasses or of those uncomfortably situated with regards to the 
social hierarchy, but it has been plenty dealt with elsewhere. In the following pages, 
I would like to address the issue of gender difference with regards to the question 
of travel and identity formation, especially as it affects a particular woman 
writer/traveler of the mid-eighteenth century. 

Gender is no mere ancillary issue for the study of travel narrative. For if the 
latter can be said to be a negotiation of identity in relation to a home, then the 
politics of domestication by which the category of home is produced in a given 
culture is necessarily implied in the concept of travel that culture produces. When 
we are dealing with early modern Europe, the patriarchal division between the good 


2. Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Emile, ou l'éducation, in GEuvres complétes, eds. Bernard 
Gagnebin and Marcel Raymond (Paris: Gallimard, 1959-69), IV: 855-58. 


Mme Du Boccage and the Migration of Identity 411 


femininity that is kept within the domestic enclosure of the home and the bad 
femininity that is found outside it writes the very script of most travelogues. For 
the male adventurer, the ambiguous pleasure/danger of travel is that of the feminine, 
whether literally in the embodiment of the courtesan whose charms belie her 
treachery and disease, or figuratively in the obsessive metaphoricity of the foreign 
land as a woman to be raped and plundered, in the presumed unpredictability of 
nature as feminine force, and of course, in the nomenclature of ships and other 
vehicles of transportation as women presumably tamed by the skill of their captains. 
Conversely, the home is the safe haven of the good woman who tends the hearth 
while the master is away, who maintains its homeliness so that upon his return the 
master will find everything as it was. Of course, an upheaval in the home is what 
is MOst precarious and fearsome in this schema, since the disturbance of the domestic 
order threatens to unhinge everything, to the extent that the home defines the locus 
of identity, familiarity and patriarchal power. 

Not only, however, is the exotic, i. e. the realm outside the home, understood 
as a feminized space to be domesticated, colonized, but there is a correlative, as 
Julia Douthwaite has convincingly shown, in the exoticization of woman as what 
is internally foreign. In the liteature of the period, the exotic heroine (an expression 
thus bordering on pleonasm) appears threatening at least as much, if not more so, 
because she is a woman as because she is foreign: “The heroines of men’s novels 
represent morally questionable traits: infidelity, sexual precocity and guile. Their 
stories end with the hero restoring his control over the woman’s dangerous passions 
and thereby maintaining the social order.”* But if, for the male voyager, the risk 
of travel is the fear of woman, what is at stake in women’s travelogues and exotic 
literature? Writes Douthwaite: “The exotic heroines of women’s novels exemplify 
loyalty, intelligence and moral decency. Ultimately their virtues are rewarded, 
although success demands a heavy toll on the woman’s personal freedom, possibilities 
for sexual happiness and ethnic integrity.”* And while Douthwaite restricts her 
study to literary representations of foreign women, whose contact with Europe is 
lived in the mode of conflict and struggle, she also sketches out the analogous 
position of the woman writer: “The plight of the foreign heroine in the French 
novel—her difficulty with the language and her long search for a place in French 
society—mirrors the plight of the woman novelist under the ancien régime, struggling 
to find a public identity and secure a decent living.”° Indeed, while the male 
writer/traveler/hero can almost always assume his place and identity, and typically 
finds them solidified by his excursions abroad, his female counterpart is “always 
already” adrift, in quest of a place and an identity that can never be assured (not 


3. Julia V. Douthwaite, Exotic Women: Literary Heroines and Cultural Strategies in Ancien 
Regime France (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1992), p. 18. 


4. Ibid. 
5. Ibid., p. 13. 


412 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


just for abstract epistemological reasons, but also for concrete social ones), if they 
are not cruelly denied her. 

Consider the case of Madame du Boccage, celebrated during her lifetime as 
a poet, playwright, translator, academician, salon conveneer and traveler. Born 
Marie-Anne Le Page in Rouen in 1710, still under the reign of Louis XIV, this 
bourgeois woman lived till she was past ninety, dying in 1802, well into the 
Napoleonic era. Avidly admired by the likes of Algarotti, Chesterfield and Voltaire 
(the last two of whom wrote poetry in her honor), admitted into the academies of 
Rouen, Lyon, Padua, Bologna and Rome, her works translated into English, German, 
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, a first edition of her collected works published 
in France a good forty years before she died, Du Boccage would seem to be one 
of the great success stories of women’s writing in the eighteenth century, yet she 
seems to have been just as thoroughly forgotten by posterity as she was lauded while 
alive. The last edition of her poetry was published in 1825. A thesis qua biography 
was published in 1927 by Grace Gill-Mark in a book series edited by Fernand 
Baldensperger and Paul Hazard.° That and a few scattered references are apparently 
all that remain. But even the inclusion of a scene from her tragedy, Les Amazones, 
in The Defiant Muse does not seem to have been enough to catalyze her rediscov- 
ery.’ For those truly interested in the conditions of canon formation, Du Boccage 
offers a tantalizing and somewhat disconcerting image. Forma Venus, arte Minerva 
reads the inscription under the portrait made of her by Mademoiselle Loir,® yet 
the stated synthesis of “beauty and brains” seems not to have been enough to secure 
the immortality her contemporaries so confidently predicted for her. Is it that her 
poetry is just simply bad, as her otherwise admiring biographer, Grace Gill-Mark, 
claims (p. 167)? Or is she just another female victim of nineteenth-century critics 


6. Grace Gill-Mark, Une femme de lettres au XVIIF siécle, Anne-Marie Du Boccage (Paris: 
Champion, 1927). Despite the author’s ambiguous attitude toward her subject, this is an 
impressive work of biographical research that meticulously indicates all relevant source 
materials and is the indispensable tool for anyone considering work on Mme du Boccage. 
All further references to this work will appear directly in the text as G-M followed by a 
page number. Also see Louis Baratte’s short sketch of Du Boccage’s career in Poétes 
normands (Paris: Lacrampe, 1845). The rare pieces by recent critics tend either to focus 
particularly on the Columbus epic [Jean-Claude Margolis, “Pour saluer Colomb: ‘La Colom- 
biade’ d’ Anne-Marie du Boccage,” Studi di letteratura francese, 20 (1994), 241-69; Terence 
Martin, “Three Colombiads, Three Visions of the Future,” Early American Literature, 27:2 
(1992), 128-34] or to situate themselves ona general level of laudatory and rather uncritical 
appreciation [R. Thomas Watson, “Forma Venus, Arte Minerva: Madame Du Boccage: A 
Simone de Beauvoir avant la lettre,” Simone de Beauvoir Studies, 7 (1990), 3-13; Roland 
Virolle, “Types sociaux en Normandie au XVIII° siécle: Marie-Anne Du Boccage, ‘la dixiéme 
muse’,” Etudes normandes, (1977), 66-80]. 


7. The Defiant Muse: French Feminist Poems from the Middle Ages to the Present, ed. 
Domna Stanton (New York: Feminist Press, 1986), pp. 100-03. 


8. This portrait appears as the frontispiece in eighteenth-century editions of La Colombiade 
as well as of her Recueil des ceuvres de Madame Du Boccage. 


Mme Du Boccage and the Migration of Identity 413 


like Sainte-Beuve, eager to dismiss the excessively libertarian and licentious, i.e., 
feminized, literature of the Enlightenment in favor of the prior century’s classicism?° 

Like Rousseau, her literary and intellectual career was launched by her winning 
the prize in a contest sponsored by a provincial academy, in her case a poem on 
“Le Prix alternatif entre les belles-lettres et les sciences” for the Academy of Rouen 
in 1746. This achievement was followed in 1748 by an adapted translation of 
Milton’s Paradise Lost (the first ever made into French), then a year later by a 
translation of Pope’s Temple of Fame, and later by one of Salomon Gessner’s Der 
Tod Abels. Had she done nothing else, Du Boccage should still have earned an 
important place as a pathbreaker in introducing French readers to key examples 
of English and German literature. In 1749, her tragedy, Les Amazones, was 
published after its having been performed on stage nearly a dozen times by the 
Comédiens du Roi. Finally, in 1756, she published her best known and most 
ambitious work, an epic poem about Columbus entitled La Columbiade, ou la Foi 
portée au Nouveau Monde. This work ran through three editions in three years 
and was soon translated into German and Italian (even as late as 1893, there appeared 
a Portuguese translation, long after its author had been utterly forgotten in her own 
country). A two-volume collected works appeared in 1762, followed by a 
three-volume collection in 1764, which was enlarged and reedited in 1770. The 
last two editions include her travel writings, to which I will turn in a moment. 

Although detractors like Grimm or Collé would dismissively refer to her as 
“la bourgeoise de Normandie” (G-M 143), her admirers seem never to have tired 
of inventing the most flattering epithets: “l’illustre Amazone”, “le Milton francais”, 
“la soeur de Camoéns,” the “Muse de France,” and so on. Citing her as “une 
femme bien philosophe” and “un autre lui-méme,” Fontenelle declared her his “fille 
adoptive” (G-M, 22). In one poem dedicated to her, it is said that Du Boccage 
would have made Catullus unfaithful to Lesbia (III, 307).'° La Condamine wrote 
verses to her as follows: 


D’Apollon, de Vénus, réunissant les armes, 
Vous subjuguez l’esprit, vous captivez le coeur, 
Et Scudéri jalouse en verseroit des larmes (III, 379). 


Voltaire’s praises were considered excessive enough to be parodied in Paris (G-M. 
42-3). And across the Channel, Horace Walpole chided Lord Chesterfield’s 
enthusiam for Du Boccage’s translation of Milton as “prefer[ring] the copy to the 
original” (G-M 59). Hosting a salon in Paris over the last seven decades of the 
eighteenth century, Du Boccage’s Sunday gatherings featured an impressive 


9. On this interpretation of nineteenth-century canon formation, see Douthwaite, pp. 188-89. 


10. Marie-Anne Le Page Fiquet Du Boccage, Recueil des GQeuvres de Madame Du Boccage 
(Lyon: Les Fréres Périsse, 1770), III: 307. Unless otherwise stated, all further references 
to works by Madame Du Boccage are to this edition and will be indicated directly in the 
text by volume and page numbers. 


414 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


membership over the years: Fontenelle, Marivaux, Montesquieu, Marmontel, 
Condillac, Mably, Mairan, La Condamine, Condorcet, Buffon, Bouchardon, Vanloo, 
Vernet, D’Argental, Algarotti, Goldoni, Galiani, Alfieri, Chesterfield’s son Stanhope, 
Gibbon, even Benjamin Franklin, among numerous others. 

Yet all this success should not blind us to the distressing inconsistency of her 
production, virtually all of which was written within the twelve years between 1746 
and 1758, a surprising fact given her prodigious longevity. Even more disturbing 
is her drifting from one genre to another (a few circumstantial poems, three 
translations, one tragedy, one epic poem, a volume of letters) as if frantically 
seeking—and never finding—a kind of writing suitable for her. Even the works 
that are not explicit translations or imitations of others almost buckle under the 
weight of their models: Racine, Tasso and Voltaire. A modern reader also cannot 
help sensing too that she chose the “wrong” genres, expending her literary energies 
on the nearly outmoded verse forms of tragic and epic, when a good novel or even 
a comedy of manners in prose might have assured her a posterity greater than that 
of the immediate acclaim of contemporaries. 

Then there is the problem of the acute contradiction between theory and practice 
in her works. As a translator, she sounds uncannily modern—even downright 
Benjaminian—when she advocates retaining the foreigness of the original in the 
translation and criticizes translators who are too quick to repress the otherness of 
the foreign culture: “[the translator] must not appear at all in [the translation], just 
the Author whom I wish to make known in another language. Many people claim 
that the work you translate must be appropriated and given, according to your tastes, 
the form that is most suitable: this is no longer rendering into our language the 
character of mind of foreigners, it is to impute our own to them.”!! And yet, 
what she does in her translations, and what gave them the success they had, is 
precisely to adapt and imitate the foreign work to fit the tastes and expectations 
of the mid-eighteenth century French reader. Whence, the fine line between 
“translation” and “imitation” in her renderings of Milton, Pope and Gessner. 
Likewise, her “Lettre sur les spectacles” situates her clearly in the camp of the 
moderns in her rejection of classical rules and prescriptions, yet Les Amazones is 
nothing if not severe in its scrupulous observance of those rules. Even the choice 
of Thésée as the main non-female character invites the comparison with Racine’s 
Phédre. Here, though, the Greek lady-killer and monster-slayer, is a prisoner of 
the Amazonian queen, Orithie, who falls madly in love with him even though custom 
demands she execute him. Her archtypical split between duty and passion is, true 
to form, embodied in the two characters of Menalippe, the Amazonian minister 
and army chief, who urges Thésée’s immediate execution, and Antiope, the heiress 
to the throne who, also in love with the Greek prisoner, seeks his release. Amorous 


11. “Préface” to Le Temple de la renommée, in Recueil des CEuvres, 1: 274. 


Mme Du Boccage and the Migration of Identity 415 


himself of Antiope, Thésée rejects Orithie’s advances causing the latter to reverse 
her affections, and stung by the rejection, unequivocally to seek his death. Saved 
by the guile of his men, Thésée runs off with Antiope while Orithie commits suicide. 
The curtain falls as Menalippe pledges vengeance upon Thésée and predicts that 
“un jour a l’univers je puis donner des loix” (I, 265). That this play was not 
immediately booed offstage by its mid-eighteenth century audience is remarkable. 
Certainly, it was one of the more successful of the mere handful of plays by women 
prior to the Revolution, and the absolute lack of divagation from classical norms 
should not obscure the newness of the fact of its being written by a woman, Mme 
Du Boccage, who also oversaw its stage production and mise-en-scéne.'’” Of 
course, the play came in for its share of criticisms, from the perennial accusation 
that it was not even written by her but by a certain M. Linant to its dismissal as 
old-fashioned. A sympathetic Fréron went so far as to blame the taste of the times 
with its fascination for the “bizarre” and advised Du Boccage to use the more modern 
techniques of other contemporary playwrights (G-M 157). The terrible irony, of 
course, is that she was herself an advocate of the very innovations she denied herself 
as author. Ina sense, the problem is a classic one of subaltern legitimation: the 
production of a work in the canonical style makes the case for egalitarianism but 
at the cost of one’s difference. For a woman to write and successfully produce 
a perfectly Racinian tragedy proves nothing other than that. The reigning aesthetic 
(and social) order remains unchallenged, and there is no attempt at legitimating 
an alternative (say, a feminine) mode of being. Maybe this is where her novel-writ- 
ing sisters were more radical and where Du Boccage may indeed have been a victim 
of her own success. For ina successful impersonation of a male masterpiece, what 
room could there be for a voice of her own? The dilemma of the Amazon queen 
was truly her own: to follow her desire was to abandon her being Amazon, but 
to maintain her Amazonness would be to engage in the acutest self-denial. Small 
wonder the play ends in the suicide of its heroine, metaphorically signalling the 
author’s demise as playwright. 

Yet one feels the same impasse looming at the end of the turn toward epic. 
While La Colombiade must count as one of the most fanciful renditions of the 
Columbus story (the plot reads as follows: the Genoese explorer falls in love with 
Zama, the daughter of the old chief he meets on the first island he encounters only 
for her to follow him across the water to Hispaniola where she is taken prisoner 
and eventually killed by an Amazonlike queen, Vascona, who rallies her forces 
against Columbus and nearly drives the invading Spaniards into the sea before being 
killed herself), the burden of the epic tradition falls on every foot of the 4100 odd 


12. On the difficulties faced by eighteenth-century women playwrights, see English 
Showalter, “Writing Off the Stage: Women Authors and Eighteenth-Century Theater,” Yale 
French Studies, 75 (1988), 95-111, especially pp. 104-08 which discuss the reception of 
Les Amazones. 


416 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


alexandrines that make up this poem with its incessant allusions to and imitations 
of Homer, Virgil, Ariosto, Tasso, Camoéns, Milton, Voltaire and others. Once 
again, the radical imaginary potential of the work is blocked by the anxious effort 
to situate the text well within the parameters of a canonical tradition. The problem 
is then compounded by Du Boccage’s inclusion of her own scholarly apparatus. 
Hundreds of footnotes are mobilized to clarify obscure references, display the 
author’s erudition and, more importantly, to ground the text in the evidence of 
historical and geographical studies, to ensure its acceptance if not as veracious, 
then at least as verisimilar. The massive attempt to legitimate her Columbus epic, 
wonderful for its unconventional plot and characters, via the twin and contradictory 
devices of formal imitation and documentary reference again risks the issue of 
voicelessness. In Les Amazones, only the one heroine dies while the other runs 
off with Thésée; ina Colombiade, both heroines, each of whom is infinitely more 
interesting than the epic’s pious hero, are killed. The crowning achievement of 
her literary career, La Colombiade’s principal claim to fame at least in France was, 
as the Journal de Trévoux remarked, that it was “dt aux talents et aux travaux d’une 
dame” (G-M 166). One wonders then whether Du Boccage’s achievement did not 
help precipitate the decline of the epic, much in the same way that certain positions 
in contemporary American society become devalued if they are perceived to be 
largely held by women. Du Boccage has succeeded in doing what no Frenchman, 
with the possible exception of Voltaire with his Henriade, had done but which had 
been the persistent aspiration of Gallic poets since the Pléiade days of Ronsard: 
namely, the production of a great national epic. The problem was that La 
Colombiade, though indeed written in French, did not chant the glories of some 
French hero but celebrated ina wildly romanticized way the exploits of an Italian 
sea captain hired by the Spanish crown. Not only was Du Boccage of the wrong 
gender for epic, but she wrote it for the wrong nation. And here is where she 
becomes terribly interesting for questions of identity and nationality as well as 
gender. Beyond the question of why she chose to write an epic poem, there is the 
question of why she focussed on Columbus, emphatically designated as an /talian 
national hero in the preface of this work dedicated to Pope Benedict XIV. 

We need to turn to her travel writings at this point to understand the interplay 
of gender and national identity before returning to the sense of Mme Du Boccage’s 
epic. Having published La Colombiade in July of 1756, Du Boccage left the 
following spring for what would be a sixteen month trip to Italy. As early as 
September 1, 1756, she stated her intention to embark upon this journey ostensibly, 
as she writes in a letter to Algarotti, to deliver him a copy of her just-published 
epic in person. Although one thinks of the Grand Tour trip to Italy as typically 
the finishing touch on a young person’s education, it also admirably served the needs 
of publicity-seeking authors. Montaigne left for Italy almost immediately after 
publishing the firt edition of his Essais; and Montesquieu visited the peninsula as 
the author of the Persian Letters. For Du Boccage, travel through Italy took on 





Mme Du Boccage and the Migration of Identity 417 


the trappings of a victory tour, as she was welcomed by the leading civic and 
intellectual leaders of the cities she visited, several of which admitted her into their 
academies. She received verses in her honor as well as offers to translate her work 
from such eminences as Gozzi, Parini and Frugoni. Here she was celebrated not 
as a woman who had somehow managed to write in a male genre but simply as 
the Muse of France. 

And coincidentally there appears an utterly different kind of writing, no longer 
verse but prose, and no longer in imitation of great men but following the inspiration 
of women like Sévigné and D’ Aulnoy whose letters had become literature. Already, 
while on a trip to England and Holland in the spring of 1750, she had written a 
series of letters to her sister describing the events of her journey. But the letters 
she wrote from Italy in 1757 and 1758 are written with much more sophistication 
and are clearly informed by a literary intent, as can be seen from the opening of 
the first letter, dated April 25, 1757 from Turin: 


Vous desirez, ma chere soeur, un récit de mon voyage d’Italie, tel que je vous 
en fis, il y a sept ans, de celui d’Angleterre. Je [suis] toujours esclave de ma 
parole; mais la tache est plus longue & plus difficile; des curieux de tout genre 
parlent de ce beau pays; qu’ajouterois-je 4 leurs recherches? (III, 125-26) 


Behind the disengenuousness of justifying the work as a response to a request from 
a family member lies the disengenuousness of claiming that everything has been 
said. The former, of course, preserves the modesty and dignity of the writer, 
especially a woman writer, who does not feel sufficently socially empowered to 
assume the importance and interest of her words for others. The latter clears the 
terrain for the innovations Du Boccage will bring to the genre of the travelogue. 
Italy, being the destination par excellence of the Grand Tour, it was not surprisingly 
the subject of an immense amount of travel literature, if not the inspiration for the 
largest number of published travelogues. To understand the significance of Du 
Boccage’s contribution to this literature, it is important to remember that she was 
writing before the great exempla of the genre had been published: Montaigne’s 
1580 journal was only published in 1774; Montesquieu’s 1729 notebook only saw 
the light in 1894; even De Brosses’ Lettres familiéres d’Italie, based on his 1739 
voyage, were only published in 1799. Lalande, Duclos, Smollett, Sterne, Gibbon 
and Goethe all came later. Fundamentally, Du Boccage had two models available 
to her: the antiquarian and the anti-clerical. Bernard de Montfaucon’s 1702 Diarium 
italicum, sive monumentum veterum, bibliothecarum, museorum, &c. Notitie 
singulares in itinerario italico collecte is a prime example of the former. Inspired 
by the humanist taste for compendia, such works were in fact depersonalized 
inventories of ancient artefacts, inscriptions, and ruins for the benefit of the 
archeologically-curious traveler. An entire network of small museums and “cabinets 
de curiosité” catered to this antiquarian clientele, for whom contemporary Italy 


418 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


was interesting only as an archaeological playground.'? This is the public of 
curiosity seekers to whose investigations Du Boccage felt she had nothing to add, 
which as we will see, is not at all the same as saying she had nothing to say. 

A second type of travelogue combined the antiquarian delight in things long 
dead and gone (Roman ruins) with an often acerbic anti-clericalism targeted against 
what is alive today (the “decadence” of modern Italy). The prototype of this genre 
was Frangois-Maximilen Misson’s Nouveau voyage d’Italie, first published in De 
Hague in 1688, quickly translated into English and German, then frequently edited 
in all three languages throughout the eighteenth century. Misson’s travelogue, in 
fact, became the most popular guidebook for travelers to Italy, and was carefully 
consulted and often imitated by key writers from Addison to Montesquieu to de 
Brosses to Goethe to Stendhal." 

A French Huguenot exile who lived and wrote in Holland, Misson traveled 
through Italy in 1688, viewing its marvels through the skewed binoculars of humanist 
awe and anti-Catholic resentment. Revamping the Renaissant musing over the loss 
of ancient Roman glory by linking decline with the power of the papacy, Misson 
offered a coherent if warped framework by which the foreign visitor could 
simultaneously grasp ancient Rome and modern Italy. The former was to be 
reconstructed by visits to ruins; the latter could be deconstructed as the evil of the 
Church. All of value could be found in the one, while no good at all could be found 
in the other. Glossing over the myriad differences between regions and cities, 
Misson produced “Italy” as a rigorous contradiction, and in the process, made a 
significant contribution to the racial stereotyping of Italians by northern Europeans 
and Anglo-Americans that still remains ideologically entrenched today. To the 
hard-working, courageous, honest and upstanding Romans of yesteryear were 
juxtaposed the lazy, cowardly, duplicitous, and lascivious Italians of today. To 
the pristine baths of the ancients were opposed the filth and squalor of its modern 
occupants. The Italy of the ancient Romans was salubrious and populated, while 
the modern peninsula was unhealthy in climate and so seriously underpopulated 
that whole areas were said to be utterly deserted. Obviously, the implications of 
Misson’s “analysis” go far beyond the social implications of the Church as an 
institution, and proceed to a virtual character assassination of modern Italy as a 
culture and a people. The historical disconnections operated by the book suggest 
that ancient Romans and modern Italians are no longer even the same people, an 
interesting consequence if we consider the Enlightenment fascination with Rome: 


13. On the early modern culture of cabinets de curiosités, see Krysztof Pomian, 
Collectionneurs, amateurs et curieux (Paris: Gallimard, 1987). 


14. On Misson’s book and its legacy, see Hermann Harder, Le Président de Brosses et 
le voyage en Italie au dix-huitiéme siécle (Geneva: Slatkine, 1981), pp. 21-77; and Pierre 
Laubriet, “Les Guides de voyage au début du XVIII* siécle,” SVEC, 32 (1965), 269-325. 


| 


Mme Du Boccage and the Migration of Identity 419 


ancient Roman values, customs and icons could be all the more readily appropriated 
if it were assumed their modern descendents had no rights to them. It should also 
come as no surprise that the book was quickly put on the Church Index, and travelers 
mention in particular the need to conceal it when entering Rome, or face its confisca- 
tion and one’s own harrassment. To no surprise either, the book became popular 
among those who considered themselves philosophes and who relished the book’s 
anticlericalism.'° 

And no surprise either, then, that Du Boccage should have packed a copy of 
Misson with her, given that by the 1750’s it had become the standard guidebook 
for travelers to Italy. At times, she makes comments that are pure Misson, such 
as when she decribes a “deserted and ill-paved” Ferrara: “La quantité de Prétres, 
Moines & Religieuses, doit nécessairement appauvrir & dépeupler ces beaux climats” 
(III, 169). But more often than not, she takes issue with her Huguenot compatriot. 
His claim, for example, that “les Vénitiennes vivent dans la plus grande contrainte” 
precedes her description of the freedom with which they spend an entire evening 
with a cicisbeo (160). She ironically mentions the “far niente, dont on accuse les 
Italiens d’étre amateurs” (322); and despite complaints about her own fatigue and 
sickliness, insists upon the healthfulness of the climate, adding in pointed rejoinder 
to the contemporary obsession with climatology that “les climats chauds sont, je 
crois, favorables aux femmes” (290). And here is another rebbutal to Misson: “N’en 
augurez pas que les paysans, quoique pauvres, soient misérables dans |’Etat 
Ecclésiastique. S’ils ont peu d’argent, ils paient peu d’impots; les fruits, vignes 
& légumes leur viennent si facilement, qu’ils en négligent la culture” (298-9). 

Interestingly enough, her defense and appreciation of modern Italy -- so rare 
in the literature -- gives her an equally heteroclite perception of the touted antiquities, 
one which borders on jesting disrespect, such as when she says that “on profite 
plus a pratiquer les hommes, qu’ voir les statues” (217), or that “Rome antique 
eut, sans doute, autant de colonnes & de figures de marbre, que d’habitants” given 
that “toute Europe en orne ses cabinets” (251). Elsewhere, she compares the buried 
treasure of Rome to that of Peru, concluding that “la quantité en diminueroit le 
prix” (254). On at least two occasions, in iconoclastic contrast to the humanist 
lament over the fall of Rome and the pitiful state of the ruins that remain, she asserts 
that the ancient art of Rome was actually saved thanks to the Barbarians’ rampage: 
“Que nous avons d’obligation aux destructeurs qui mirent sous terre les chefs-- 
d’oeuvre de |’antiquité! Souvent on les y trouve bien conservés; |’air les auroit 


15. On Misson’s reception among the philosophes, see Harder, pp. 49-53 and Laubriet, 
pp. 311-25. In his Lettres familiéres écrites d’Iltalie, Charles de Brosses sardonically describes 
his carriage being searched upon entering Rome and the confiscation of his Misson by customs 
officials, “au profit de 1’Inquisition” [ed. Frédéric d’Agay (Paris: Mercure de France, 1986) 
1:27 (Lettre XXXVID]. 


420 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


noircis & rongés” (251). Her desire to see Herculaneum is likewise spurred by 
the fact that it was “conservée par l’accident méme qui l’abima” (275). 

Uninspired by antiquarian nostalgia and unconvinced by the myth of contempo- 
rary decadence, Du Boccage thus emerges as a highly unusual tourist for the time. 
But her Lettres sur l’Italie do much more than simply reject the two tendencies of 
the genre, as can be seen if we return to where we left off in the collection’s opening 
letter: 


Si je me borne a vous faire mon histoire, notre amitié vous la rendra intéressante; 
mais vous ennuierez ceux a qui vous voulez lire mes lettres. II est vrai que la 
manie de parler souvent de soi, traitée de vanité en toute autre occasion, ne doit 
point l’étre dans une correspondance dont le seul but est de se communiquer l’une 
a l’autre les choses qui nous concernent & nous affectent le plus. Tachons donc, 
en vous instruisant de ce qui me regarde, de vous amuser des merveilles dont je 
serai le plus frappée. Cent personnes regardent le méme objet & l’envisagent sous 
divers points de vue: puisse ma maniere de voir, ajouter quelqu’agrément a vos 
lectures sur les lieux que je suis en train de parcourir! (125-6) 


Thus, after dismissing the antiquarian approach, she attempts to do something quite 
novel for the genre of the travelogue by personalizing its writing in two ways. 
First, she adopts the letter form from Sévigné (indeed Du Boccage was compared 
to her upon the publication of the Lettres [G-M 111]) as an intimate communication 
between close relatives (having no daughter as Sévigné did, Du Boccage opts for 
her sister) that is also written with a view to a larger audience. And second, she 
foregrounds herself as reactive to the “marvels” she encounters, thus allowing a 
self-portrait, or at least an exploration of her subjectivity, to emerge from the 
itinerary of her travel. And in forging this link between travelogue and autobiogra- 
phy, Du Boccage might well be said to be the inventor of modern travel literature, 
thus preceding Mme de Genlis and Mme de Staél as well as Goethe, Stendhal, James, 
etal." 

In other words, the travelogue under Du Boccage’s pen becomes a kind of “life 
story,” a form of writing that at last allows her to develop a certain persona bearing 
her name, and to develop that persona as a function of the place changes that mark 
the narrative progression of a voyage. But if the self that emerges from the travel 
letters is in actuality one that is constructed through the dialectics of encounter with 
the foreign, then travel signifies the radical possibility of rewriting and reinventing 
oneself: “Changeons alors de pays, nous y ferons un nouvel étre,” she writes. 
Travel as change of being both encourages critical reflection about who one is or 
has been, and inscribes a utopian subjectivity into its practice. Hence, Du Boccage 
evokes her melancholy youth, citing verses she wrote in her unhappiness: 


16. The travel letters of Madame Du Boccage are to my mind quite obviously the leading 
influence on de Staél’s Corinne, ou l’Italie, if not its very model. 


Mme Du Boccage and the Migration of Identity 421 


... en y comparant mes longs poémes, & mes longs voyages, voyez quel changement 
l’ge apporte 4 nos sentiments! Que |’humanité est inconstante! Je ne comprends 
rien 4 mon caractere, j’ai toujours entrepris les choses les plus hasardeuses avec 
la plus grand timidité. (264) 


To understand “nothing” about one’s character is not only to acknowledge the 
vicissitudes of one’s life story, but also to leave open the question of one’s further 
development. Rejecting the Italian proverb, Chi ben sta, non si move (265), Du 
Boccage describes her cultural adaptation to the difference in climate and customs, 
including her improved health (“Je n’ai plus ni migraines ni coliques” ) in the Italian 
air (“singuliérement propre 4 mon tempérament,” 317), to the point that she no 
longer wishes to return to France and instead adopts Italy as her native country, 
for “Patria est ubicumque bene” (318). The Latin here underscores the irony of 
a (self) identity that can only be found inan alien locale, if not ina foreign language 
(Like Montaigne before her, Du Boccage dabbles in written Italian). 

Above all, Italy appears to Mme Du Boccage as a utopia—if not, eu-topia—of 
female freedom whose “climats chauds sont, je crois, favorables aux femmes, elles 
y accouchent plus aisément, sont plus aimés, ont moins besoin, pour transpirer, 
de faire de l’exercice” (290). As opposed to Misson’s stereotypical creation of 
the Italian woman either as prostitute or as meek and modest servant to a tyrannical 
husband prone to unpredictable fits of jealous rage, Du Boccage discovers entire 
worlds of possibility for women. In the place of this polarity, what Du Boccage 
observes and experiences is an exhilarating lack of constraint on women compared 
with the rest of Europe, from the superficial (in their lack of make-up) to the vital 
(childbearing practices that “font beaucoup plus d’enfants, sans d’aussi tristes 
accidents” - 290). And, on the supposed contradiction between sexuality and 
religion, while French women are said to be either “totally given over to God” or 
“to pleasure,” in Italy, Du Boccage states, they can be “dévotes & mondaines tout 
a la fois” (334). Surprisingly, Misson’s stereotypes have proved so strong that 
it is only very recently that early modern Italy (especially Venice) has been 
recognized as far more progressive than its transalpine neighbors in terms of 
women’s roles and rights. It turns out, in fact, that the earliest forms of feminism 
in Europe emanated from Italian milieus."’ 

The freedom of Italian women to pursue intellectual careers is also made more 
than evident in Du Boccage’s letters. In addition to being warmly received and 
officially admitted into the Academies of Padua, Bologna and Rome at a time when 
women were still barred from most French academies, she encounters women 


17. See especially Constance Jordan, Renaissance Feminism: Literary Texts and Political 
Models (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1990); as well as the essays collected in the volume, 
Refiguring Woman: Perspectives on Gender and the Italian Renaissance (Ithaca: Cornell 
University Press, 1991; and Juliana Schiesari, “In Praise of Virtuous Women? For a 
Genealogy of Gender Morals in Renaissance Italy,” Annali d’Italianistica, 7 (1989), 66-87. 


422 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


scholars, writers, artists and scientists everywhere she goes in Italy. In Venice, 
she dines with Goldoni and Mr. and Mrs. Gozzi, who so admire Du Boccage’s 
work, they each translated a different text of hers into Italian, with Luisa doing 
Les Amazones and Carlo rendering her adaptation of Milton into the language of 
Dante. In Bologna, she attends a lecture in Latin by the physicist Laura Bassi, 
who also demonstrates experiments involving “irritability” (176). That same 
academy also boasts the geometricians Agnesi and the Neapolitan Princess 
Collombrano. In Rome, while visiting the Princess Piccolomini, she hears a recital 
by Maddelena Morelli, famous for her erudition and impromptu verse-making (296). 
Elsewhere, she hears poems from the young Duchess d’Arcé and meets the physicist 
and polyglot Ardinguelli. Indeed, the reception she received was so great that upon 
her return to France the Academy of Lyon emended its rules barring women and 
admitted Du Boccage as its first female academician. 

Finally, inher letters, Du Boccage foregrounds the practice Italian women had 
of keeping a cicisbeo, or male escort, for their evenings out. Having encountered 
this institution as early on as her stay in Milan, she indulges in it by the time she 
gets to Venice with the Maltese knight, Sacramozo, whom she describes as “aimable, 
instruit, grand voyageur, que j’avois connu en Hollande & a Paris” (159). Ushered 
into a fantastical world of canalside walks, cozy hideaways, closed gondola rides, 
disguised excursions, intimate téte-a-tétes, and so on, all done “sans que personne 
en médise,” Du Boccage exclaims that “on leur vante a tort notre liberté, la leur 
la surpasse infiniment,” before referring to what now appears to be Misson’s 
incongruous claim that “les Vénitiennes vivent dans la plus grande contrainte” (160). 
Male companionship then becomes a standard feature of her travels: Algarotti in 
Bologna, then Cardinal Passionei in Rome, or the old Marquis Fraggiani in Naples, 
who “tous les matins” sends her “liqueurs, parfums, bombons, éditions rares de 
livres latins ou italiens, & gants de laine de poisson” (266). Interestingly, the 
tongues only begin to wag, when on her way home, she makes a sidetrip to Les 
Délices to visit Voltaire, whose appearance as the final figure in this sequence of 
male companions also brings the narrative to a close. Of all of them, however, 
the cardinal with the suggestive name of Passionei leaves the most lasting impression, 
for he is the French poetess’ constant companion during her long stay in Rome (July 
5, 1757 - April 8, 1758). He shows her his extensive library (which he refers to 
as “sa femme,” 228), takes her to Tivoli and to a country home in Macareze, and 
even rides to meet her on her return from Naples. Despite his name, though, 
Passionei was reputed to be quite a cold fish, which makes his relations with Du 
Boccage all the more remarkable: upon seeing the two of them together in a carriage, 
Pope Benedict XIV is said to have exclaimed “et homo factus est!” (G-M, 101). 
Even after her departure from Rome, he begged her to come back, offering her 
lodging in his palace and the lure of an imminent papal conclave. 

It takes some effort to remember in reading all this that Madame Du Boccage 
not only had a husband but one who accompanied her along every step of this 


Mme Du Boccage and the Migration of Identity 423 
journey. Although biographer Gill-Mark claims they had a strong, loving 
relationship from their marriage in 1727 until his death in 1767, few signs of their 
bond appear in the Lettres: in some three hundred pages of letters, she refers to 
him once as “M. Du Boccage,” three times as “mon mari,” twice with a blend of 
annoyance and irony as “mon Mentor,” and perhaps a half-dozen times as “mon 
compagnon de voyage.” Algarotti, Passionei, and even Voltaire are mentioned 
with greater frequency and more emotional affect. 

Nonetheless, M. Du Boccage does appear, and with disturbing force, in the 
circumstances surrounding his wife’s tearful departure from Italy. Happier, 
healthier and more celebrated in Italy than in France, there should be no surprise 
in the fact that she left reluctantly: 


Imaginez-vous que j’ai en réalité la douleur que tous les partants feignent de sentir. 
Les plus grands malheurs des longues routes n’en sont pas les périls, c’est 
l’obligation de quitter la bonne compagnie qu’on chérit dans les lieux ot 1’on 
séjourne. Malgré cet inconvénient, les voyages sont peut-étre le temps de la vie 
le plus rapide & le plus divertissant. Je ne me suis jamais plus amusée que dans 
ma course d’Angleterre, de Hollande, & de celle-ci. (355) 


So overcome with grief is she that “mes larmes m’en déroberent la vue” of the 
Antonine column she wished to see “pour la derniere fois” on the way out of Rome. 
Nor does time and distance give consolation: “J’arrivai l’an passé avec la plus 
grande satisfaction a la porte du Peuple, j’en suis sortie avec la plus vive douleur, 
qui s’est encore accrue en cheminant” (357). At Reggio, though, her spirits are 
revived by a posthaste letter from Passionei “ordering” her immediate return to 
Rome (364). The “love of Rome” overcoming all else, she was “resolved to return 
there” until her husband blocked her: “mon Mentor se trouva d’un autre sentiment 
. Mes remonstrances furent vaines, & mes chagrins vifs” (365-6). There is 
something shocking and tragic about this learned and accomplished woman being 
denied her request as if she were a child with no recourse. Less “worried” than 
her “travel companion” over the 150 leagues separating them now from Rome, 
her powerlessness is all the more poignant for the sole reason her “Mentor” can 
give besides vague “difficultés” is that “[il] n’aime pas a revenir sur ses pas” (365). 
Hereafter, Madame Du Boccage loses her ability to enjoy what she sees (“Je quittai 
ces beaux lieux avec le mortel regret de ne point retourner 4 Rome,” 369) and 
remains “toujours préoccupée du projet, ou de la folie (comme vous le voudrez) 
de retourner sur mes pas” to Rome (373). Having set sail from Genoa for the south 
of France, heartsick and sad, able “neither to read nor write,” she scours the horizon 
in the hopes “some Algerians or Englishmen” would “kidnap” her like the heroine 
in a bad novel (374). 
Genoa, of course, is the birthplace of Christopher Columbus; and before she 
set foot on the boat that would remove her forever from her Italian paradise, the 
author of La Colombiade paid her respects to the portrait of the man she calls “mon 


424 GEORGES VAN DEN ABBEELE 


héros” (371). One wonders what she thought face to face with that pictorial 
representation no more verisimilar than her own epic fantasy (there exists no known 
portrait made of Columbus while he was alive, so we literally cannot know what 
he looked like). Did she see her fantasy hero, shining knight and cavalier servant 
there, the ultimate cicisbeo who is the one she hoped to see piloting some pirate 
ship to take her away back to Rome, or to the Amazonian utopia her epic and tragedy 
gave to imagine? Or, was what she saw nothing but an alternative representation, 
a brutal reminder that desire can only be fulfilled in fantasy and that there was no 
hero other than in the fictions she had imagined (for) herself? 

One can only wonder, given the dramatic decline of her literary productivity 
after her travels. The contrast could not be more stark with the long tradition of 
male writers who returned from trips to Italy—or elsewhere—reinvigorated and 
re-empowered, and whose return signals renewed inspiration and output. Clearly, 
for Madame Du Boccage, there was nothing empowering about the return home. 
Except for some scattered circumstantial poems and the publication of her collected 
works (whose third and final volume ended with the Lettres sur l’Italie), she would 
produce nothing for the last forty-some years of her life. Her salon would continue 
as an anachronism, even through the darkest days of the Terror (G-M 46-49). 
Having outlived herself, she could only talk, it is said, obsessively, repetitively 
of her wonderful voyage to Italy (as if ninety years of living were compressed into 
sixteen short months, but then it is she who said that one lives more rapidly when 
traveling). ... Forced out of the exhilarating (e)utopia of difference, she was left 
permanently exiled at home in the dystopia of the same. 

There is a clue, of course, in the similarities of plot between her epic and her 
tragedy. In both cases, blocked feminine desire is redirected as murderous impulse 
before finding a (final) issue in self-destruction. Bluntly put, the price for being 
rejected in love is death. Accordingly, in terms of her own life plot, the return 
from Italy is lived by Du Boccage as a loss of love, symbolized perhaps by the 
Columbus who never came to the rescue, or embodied by Passionei whose requests 
remained unanswered. What the story tells, then, is the harrowing limits of identity 
and subjectivity, of the ultimate retrictions of nation, class and gender: Du Boccage 
could no more become Italian than she ccould reject her husband’s decisions. Or 
perhaps, it would be more accurate to say that if she could have broken free of 
her “Mentor,” then she could have been Italian . . 


University of California, Davis 


PATRIZIO ROSSI 


Il carnevale di Venezia 
e i viaggiatori del Settecento 


Il Settecento @ certamente uno dei secoli pid brillanti nella cultura veneziana, ed 
anche uno dei periodi a cui pid s’interessa la critica. Basterebbe consultare qualsiasi 
opera bibliografica su questo periodo, per rendersi conto della ricchezza di 
contribuzioni allo studio di tutti gli aspetti culturali della citta'. L’attenzione alla 
cultura e alla vita di Venezia, infatti, non era certamente ingiustificata. Nel Settecento 
questa citta era veramente al centro dell’attenzione europea per la sua vita brillante, 
per la liberta di cui i cittadini solitamente godevano e per la ricchezza delle arti 
e del piacere di vivere. 

Lo splendore e la ricchezza di Venezia si erano sempre solidamente basati 
su un vasto e fiorente traffico di merci e su un grande numero mercanti, pionieri 
del commercio con |’estero, e fornitori di merci pregiate al mercato nazionale. 
Nel Settecento, tuttavia, Venezia era, rispetto al passato, in un ovvio stato di declino 
commerciale. Il senato veneziano si era dimostrato incapace di riconoscerne e 
comprenderne le lontane ed oscure cause, e per sopperire alle difficolta economiche 
della comunita, si preoccupava di assicurare la salute pubblica e la prosperita 
generale garantendo insoliti privilegi a tutti coloro che si adoperassero a fornire 
prosperita alla citta ed alla popolazione. Se il commercio tradizionale non era pit 
sufficiente a creare queste condizioni, ci si poteva rivolgere ad altre attivita, non 
esclusa quella che chiamiamo quest’ oggi l’industria del turismo. Venezia era una 
citta insolita e famosa per il suo fascino e se le feste e i divertimenti avessero reso 
ancor pit gradevole un soggiorno nella Dominante e favorito cosi il benessere della 
maggioranza dei cittadini, non era certamente il caso di fare delle obiezioni e 
impedire quelle attivita che non erano conformi al concetto tradizionale di impegno 
nel commercio. (Damerini 116) 

Questa linea di condotta del governo e dei suoi cittadini fece della Venezia 
settecentesca la citta delle feste e della vita piacevole 0, come ci dice uno dei 
protagonisti casanoviani, |’ambasciatore di Francia a Venezia, Francesco de Bernis, 


1. A questo proposito é sufficiente consultare il contributo bibliografico di Nicola Mangini, 
Bibliografia goldoniana (1908-1957) (Venezia, Istituto per la collaborazione culturale, 1961), 
e di altri esperti della storia e della cultura veneziana, per esempio, M. Berengo, M. Dazzi, 
G. Damerini, C. Levi. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


426 PATRIZIO ROSSI 


in quella citta, per mezzo del denaro, “il pouvait se procurer tous les agréments 
de la vie plus facilemant que partout ailleurs”. (Casanova, Iv, 114) 

Teatri, carnevali, mascherate e balli, case da gioco, fiere, feste pittoresche tra 
cui quella dello sposalizio del mare, divennero cosi rapidamente attrazioni per i 
forestieri nelle stagioni comprese fra l’autunno e la primavera. Di anno in anno 
giungeva a Venezia un sempre maggiore numero di persone in cerca di divertimento 
€ spensieratezza, e si considera che gia agli inizi del Settecento la citta, che aveva 
una popolazione oscillante intorno ai centoquarantamila abitanti, ospitasse pit di 
trentamila 0 quarantamila stranieri in cerca di allegria e piacere. (Damerini 117) 

In questo mondo che, come s’é detto, non aveva riscontro in nessun’ altra parte 
d’Europa, la folla di stranieri in cerca di divertimento e di piacere era cosi 
eterogenea, che non era insolito trovare accanto a monarchi e principi un consistente 
numero di falsi titolati, banchieri falliti, giocatori di vantaggio, letterati parassiti 
e donne equivoche. Tra le persone di maggiore cultura che visitarono Venezia, 
(tralasciando i nomi dei personaggi pili noti, che vanno da Goethe a Rousseau), 
ci furono numerosissimi viaggiatori, persone di rango che vennero nella capitale 
veneta e lasciarono le loro impressioni in corrispondenze private o in relazioni in 
seguito pubblicate. In questi scritti essi ritenevano di dover dare delle cose che videro 
e delle esperienze che vissero nella capitale veneta una visione viva e documentata’. 
Le loro considerazioni sui costumi e gli usi di Venezia, e naturalmente anche 
sull’Italia e gli italiani, denotano |’interesse e la sorpresa per questo stile di vita 
per loro cosi insolito. Le reazioni riflesse nelle loro relazioni sono fra le pid varie 
e non sempre negativamente critiche; anzi, esse sono talvolta di condiscendenza 
o di vera e propria invidia per tanta liberta e apparente felicita. 

Di tutte le attrazioni che Venezia poteva offrire al suo pubblico, l’avvenimento 
pit noto, pit gioioso e di pid larga rinomanza era di certo il carnevale, che aveva 
raggiunto un’importanza tale da essere ritenuto il pit brillante non solo in Italia, 
ma in tutta Europa. E infatti questa notorieta é evidente anche nelle annotazioni 
degli scrittori e dei viaggiatori stranieri, ai quali lo spettacolo e le consuetudini di 
questa celebrazione sembravano cosi straordinari da dover essere descritti ai 
compatrioti e agli amici che non avevano la fortuna di poterli vivere. 


Le carnaval de Venise est célebre depuis long-temps comme le plus brillant de 
I’Italie, et il est encore le rendez-vous général des étrangers qui peuvent s’y trouver. 
(Le Francois de la Lande 507) 


Cosi ci dice il De Lalande, uno degli autori che pid a lungo si ferm6d a Venezia 
e che descrisse la citta inmaniera dettagliata. E Saint Didier, altro buon conoscitore 
degli usi e dei costumi cittadini, ricalca: 


2. Il numero di relazioni su Venezia di viaggiatori stranieri € veramente cosiderevole; si 
veda a proposito il volume Viaggiatori stranieri a Venezia, (Genéve, Slatkine, 1981). 





Il carnevale di Venezia e i viaggiatori del Settecento 427 


Le carnaval de Venise, est en si grande reputation dans toute l’Europe, que ceux 
des Pays éloignez, qui ont envie de voir Venise, attendent cette saison, ou la Ville 
se voit ordinairement pleine d’Etrangers de toutes les Nations. (Limojon de Saint- 
Didier 409) 


A questo si pud aggiungere la ripetuta conferma di Rogissart, il quale nella 
sua corrispondenza con gli amici, dopo aver parlato delle bellezze e della vita della 
citta lagunare, si riserva, dulcis in fundo, la descrizione della féte pricipale: 


Il ne nous reste plus qu’a parler des fétes de Venise, dont la principale est celle 
du Carnaval, si renommé dans toute l’Europe. Car qui est-ce qui n’a pas entendu 
parler du Carnaval de Venise? (Rogissart 156) 


Dalle informazioni suggerite dalle varie relazioni (oltre a quanto appare nelle 
cronache, nei documenti e negli scritti del tempo), sappiamo che la celebrazione 
del carnevale iniziava subito dopo Natale. Per la verita, l’inizio della stagione teatrale 
che concideva con la prima domenica di ottobre, il giorno dopo la festa del Rosario, 
apriva, anche se in tono minore, le celebrazioni carnascialesche. Allora ci si metteva 
la maschera solo di sera, ed in particolare per andare a teatro, mentre durante il 
carnevale propriamente detto, era d’uso la si mettesse sia di sera che al mattino, 
con l’eccezione delle feste e delle domeniche prima di mezzogiorno. I vari 
festeggiamenti si svolgevano per tutto il periodo in un continuo crescendo che 
culminava con la settimana grassa, il momento conclusivo, ma anche il pit frenetico, 
di tutta la vicenda. Il giorno dell’ Ascensione, in cui veniva celebrata la cerimonia 
dello sposalizio del mare, dava l’avvio a Venezia ad una seconda specie di carnevale, 
un carnevale estivo, con una fiera che durava quindici giorni. 

I primi tre giorni dell’anno s’interrompeva la mascherata per le preghiere delle 
Quaranta Ore che terminavano il 3 gennaio con una grande e fastosa processione, 
alla quale partecipavano il doge e la nobilta, che faceva il giro di piazza San Marco, 
sovente con la neve e il gelo. La grande stravaganza cominciava subito dopo, come 
ci illustra il Rogissart, un altro testimone della gran festa: 


Il commence la seconde Féte de Noél, c’est-a-dire que depuis ce jour-la jusqu’au 
Caréme il est permis de se donner tout entier a ses plaisirs. C’est pour lors qu’on 
pousse le libertinage 4 bout, qu’on enchérit sur les plaisirs ordinaires, et qu’on 
voit regner le vice et la volupté avec insolence. C’est leur temps. La vertu méme 
souffre quelque éclipse dans ces jours de ténebres; car tout le monde masque de 
quelque condition qu’il puisse étre, et on change de moeurs comme d’habit. 
(Rogissart 156) 


Saint-Didier, che soggiornd a Venezia per diverso tempo, riprende il pensiero di 
Rogissart, chiedendosi quale fosse l’elemento che pid contribuiva al successo di 
questa celebrazione: 


mais je suis persuadé qu’une infinité de choses concourent a le rendre si celebre, 
& particulierement l’usage que chacun en fait par un deguisement commode, 


428 PATRIZIO ROSSI 


l’extreme liberté avec la quelle les Masques peuvent paroistre partout, le respect 
inviolable qu’on leur porte. (Saint-Didier 410) 


Ed é infatti l’uso della maschera e il rispetto inviolabile che le si porta a 
rappresentare una delle caratteristiche pit spiccate ed interessanti di questa 
celebrazione. Per sei mesi dell’anno, dunque, ci si da alla follia e alla stravaganza; 
e perché lo si possa fare pit liberamente, la Repubblica permette di mascherarsi. 
E la citta si maschera: 


Rien n’est plus singulier que de voir, pour ainsi dire, toute la Ville en masque, 
les meres portent a leurs bras leurs enfans déguisez; & les hommes, & les femmes, 
qui veulent aller au marché, ou faire une emplette de cinq sols 4 la Mercerie, y 
vont masquez. (Saint-Didier 411) 


L’abito delle maschere consiste in un ‘tabarro’ o mantello veneziano di seta, 
qualche volta grigio ma quasi sempre nero; si mette poi sulla testa una specie di 
calzamaglia di garza o di dentella nera, chiamata ‘bautta’, che copre il mento fino 
alle labbra; il resto del viso é coperto da una maschera bianca, ‘volto’ che giunge 
fino alla bocca, senza pero coprirla, e si tiene questa maschera tramite un cappello, 
di solito guarnito da una piuma bianca. I veneziani spingono il loro cappello fino 
agli occhi della loro maschera, e gli stranieri, che tengono il cappello pid sollevato, 
sono facili da individuare. Questo mascheramento @ comune tanto per gli uomini 
che per le donne, e queste si riconoscono solamente per la gonna che passa sotto 
il mantello. Con questo sistema venivano abolite tutte le convenienze sociali e le 
distinzioni di classe. Era permesso a tutti, dunque, di lasciarsi andare ad ogni sorta 
diliberta. “Cid sichiama nella lingua del paese” , dicono i relatori, “avvantaggiarsi 
del privilegio della liberta; si @ pertanto cosi liberi che, secondo il Rogissart, ci 
si “sente affrancati da tutti i rimorsi”. 

Piazza San Marco é il grande teatro sul quale ogni giorno si svolge la grande 
pompa del Carnevale, e la piazza s’abbellisce ancor di pit durante questo periodo; 
la festa vi attira tutta la citta verso mezzogiorno. Vi si vedono ciarlatani e 
saltimbanchi di tutte le specie, abbondano i comici e gli esercizi ginnici sono talvolta 
molto singolari: per esempio la piramide formata da dodici uomini che ne portano 
Otto, e su questi altri quattro che ne portano due, e i due ne portano uno che solleva 
ancora un bambino. Vi sono anche gli indovini che tramite una specie di lungo 
tubo di cartone, recano i loro oracoli nelle orecchie dei curiosi che ascoltano. “Ne 
croyez pas que ces prédictions soient un simple jeu pour les curieux du peuple”, 
fa ancora osservare il Coyer (19), poiché la sorpresa, la gioia, il terrore si dipingono 
in maniera impressionante sui loro volti. Si vedono altresi dei Pulcinella, finti 
predicatori che hanno la pretesa di disquisire con il pubblico. Ma la specie di 
ciarlatani pili notevole é quella dei narratori, gente semplice che narra in maniera 
particolare, piena di fuoco ed enfasi, mille avvenimenti meravigliosi, tragici o 
comici: “le peuple rependu par terre, les yeux sur I’historien, bouche béante, 
immobile et respirant 4 peine, est comme enchanté, pendant deux ou trois heures”. 


Il carnevale di Venezia e i viaggiatori del Settecento 429 


(Coyer 19) 

Con il procedere del giorno, anche le tonalita del carnevale cambiano. Verso 
la fine della giornata le caratteristiche sentimentali e amorose della celebrazione 
incominciano a diventare pit palesi: “ n’y a pas un masque a Venise qui ne s’y 
rende une heure devant le coucher du Soleil”, e nonostante la piazza sia molto 
grande, essa pud appena contenere la folla delle maschere e di quelli che vanno 
a vederle: “Ls Gentils-donnes ne se déguisent que pour aller prendre ce divertisse- 
ment pendant les derniers jours du Carneval” , quelle che hanno delle galanterie, 
“trouvent das cette saison mille moyens de tromper leurs maris, & leurs surveillans”, 
prosegue il Saint-Didier (411), poiché non c’é praticamente posto in cui non possano 
introdursi con |’aiuto della maschera, 


de sorte que le Carnaval est la veritable moisson des amours: on y cueille les fruits 
de toutes les intrigues qu’on a tramées dans une saison moins favorable; l’on y 
établit de nouvelles correspondances avec les Dames mesme le plus soigneusement 
observées, & l’on prend des mesures justes pour les pouvoir entretenir long tems 
aprés. (Saint-Didier 410) 


Il carnevale é anche la stagione delle cortigiane, che si mascherano e si fanno vedere 
sino a piazza San Marco ove trovano sempre nuove compagnie; 


mais la pluspart sont lotiées, ou retenués pour tout le Carnaval, parce qu’on ne 
passeroit pas pour galant homme si l’on ne se donnoit une compagnie de cette sorte, 
pendant un tems de divertissement, ot l’on ne se fait honneur de mener une 
Demoisele 4 1’Opera, 4 la Commedie, au Bal, & partout ot 1’on peut se divertir. 
(Saint-Didier 412) 


Alle celebrazioni del carnevale non era escluso il ceto religioso, il quale non 
si comportava in maniera molto differente dal resto del pubblico. Questo fattore 
sembra affascinare gli stranieri, perché troviamo diverse relazioni che si riferiscono 
a tale consuetudine. La maschera, racconta uno di essi, é estremamente utile ai 
monaci ed ai religiosi, che si dice ne approfittino per prendere parte ai divertimenti 
del pubblico. In questo modo per ben sei mesi essi si possono sottrarre ai doveri 
ed al comportamento che il loro stato richiede. Preti, frati, e perfino il nunzio e 
il guardiano dei cappuccini, usano la maschera durante carnevale. “Non pensate 
che vi prenda in giro”, soggiunge Coyer (18-19): i preti sarebbero disprezzati dai 
loro parrocchiani e il vescovo dal suo clero, se non avessero la maschera alla mano 
o sul naso. Anche le monache si mascherano e i parlatori diventano il ritrovo delle 
maschere, quanto pit buffonesche e ridicole, tanto meglio accolte. I giovani patrizi 
si mettono d’accordo nel travestirsi nel modo pit stravagante, e vanno di convento 
in convento a divertire le religiose con mille estrosita. La superiora compare per 
far ritirare le maschere e le suore, ma queste se ne vanno per una porta, e ritornano 
per l’altra, mentre le maschere si pongono a fare cento buffonerie per far ridere 
la superiora ed obbligarla a andarsene. (Saint-Didier 386) 

Ma se queste sono esclusivamente dicerie di relatori stranieri che sovente non 


430 PATRIZIO ROSSI 


hanno avuto nessuna esperienza personale in materia e, non fanno che ripetere quello 
che altri hanno raccontato loro, Giacomo Casanova, con il piglio verista che 
caratterizza la narrazione della sua Histoire de ma Vie, ci da invece una lucida 
descrizione di questa consuetudine: 


Ayant su de Laure (la suora sua amante) qu’on donnait dans un tel jour un bal 
dans le grand parloir, je me suis déterminé d’y aller masqué de fagon que mes 
bonnes amies ne pussent pas me connaitre. J’étais stir de les voir. On permet 4 
Venise, dans le temps du carnaval aux couvents de religieuses, de se procurer cet 
innocent plaisir. (Casanova IV, 79) 


Con il calare della notte, i divertimenti trovavano rifugio al coperto nelle case, 
nei palazzi e nei teatri. La loro caratteristica era ancora pil mondana e pertanto 
le riflessioni degli ospiti stranieri in materi2, sono ancora pill severe e mordaci. 
Se i balli e gli spettacoli sono importanti e ben frequentati, é il gioco d’azzardo 
nei ridotti che domina le attivita notturne. 


Lorque la nuit aproche, & que le divertissement de la place finit, celuy des Reduits 
commence. (Saint-Didier 413) 


Ma la cosa pit sorprendente é che qui sono i nobili a tenere banco, e quindi la 
Repubblica, il governo stesso! 


on appelle Ridotti les lieux ot la Noblesse Venitienne tient la banque du jeu ouverte 
pour tous ceux qui se presentent: il y a plusieurs Reduits 4 Venise, ot les Nobles 
jouent en particulier, pendant toute l’année; mais le grand Reduit du Carnaval 
est dans une maison proche de la place, ou la plus grande partie du monde se rend 
dés que l’heure de la promenade est passée. (Saint-Didier 413) 


La maschera, 0 una parvenza di maschera, osserva ancora il narratore, é necessaria 
per poter entrare, poiché solo i nobili hanno il privilegio dell’esenzione a questo 
obbligo: 


l’on fait difficulté d’y laisser entrer ceux que ne sont pas masquez, ce privilege 
n’estant que pour les Nobles Venitiens; mais une fausse barbe, un nez, ou la 
moindre chose du monde, qui déguise le visage, suffit pour cela; & si l’on n’a 
pas envie de joiier, l’on l’6te, sil’on veut, des qu’on est entré. (Saint-Didier 413) 


La descrizione che Saint-Didier ci da del ridotto  veramente mirabile. L’imponenza 
delle sale illuminate da una quantita di candelieri sospesi, |’eleganza generale, |’oro 
e l’argento ammucchiato con precisione sui tavoli da gioco, la folla che si sposta 
da una sala all’altra e la gravita del silenzio che regna ovunque come se si fosse 
in chiesa, sono le cose che pid lo sorprendono: 


L’on voit dans une Salle, & dans plusieurs Chambres de plein-pied, quantité de 
Chandeliers suspendus, & un grand nombre de tables arrangées tout au tour, & 
a chacune un des Nobles qui donnent 4 joiier, lequel est assis du costé de la 
muraille; ils ont tous devant eux plusieurs jeux de cartes, un tas de pieces d’or, 


Il carnevale di Venezia e i viaggiatori del Settecento 431 


& un de Ducats d’argent, avec deux flambeaux, prests a tenir contre tous ceux 
qui se presentent, soit masques, ou Gentils-hommes Venitiens. La foule y est si 
grande qu’on ne peut souvent passer d’une chambre 4 l’autre, & cependant il y 
regne un silence beaucoup plus grand qu’a |’Eglise; de sorte que les Etrangers 
sont surpris de ce spectacle, qui est beaucoup plus admirable par sa singularité, 
qu’il n’est divertissa nt par le plaisir qu’on y peut prendre. (Saint-Didier 413-414) 


Le donne non erano certamente escluse dal gioco, al quale partecipavano talvolta 
con una passione superiore a quella dei loro cavalieri. Ma il loro compito era anche 
quello di pensare al resto dei divertimenti della serata, che si sarebbero conclusi 
nelle loro abitazioni. Cosicché, negli stessi ridotti, erano disponibili i cibi che 
sarebbero poi stati cucinati per le cene e i festini al ritorno dal teatro. 


Les Gentils-donnes vont souvent jouér au Reduit, & n’ont pour tout déguisement 
qu’un Loup de velours; de sorte que ceuz qui les connoissent sans masque, n’ont 
pas beaucoup de peine 4 les connaistre masquées, puisque rien ne leur cache la 
taille, ny la gorge: Elles y boivent des liqueurs, & des eaux glassées; 1’on vent 
aussi dans ce méme lieu de la viande, & de la volaille préte 4 mettre a la broche, 
& l’on étale tout cela aux yeux du monde, ce qui oblige souvent ceux qui menent 
des femmes, de faire des parties de souper au retour de |’Opera, ou de la Comedie, 
ou l’on va au sortir de ce lieu 14. (Saint-Didier 416) 


Una vera impressione di quale fosse l’esperienza di una serata in un Ridotto 
ci sarebbe impossibile se non ci potessimo riferire ancora una volta alla narrazione 
autobiografica di Casanova, che ci descrive una notte di divertimento in compagnia 
di una monaca sua amante, un’avvenente giovane che egli identifica unicamente 
con le iniziali del suo nome, M. M.* Questa precauzione é presa in quanto essa 
apparteneva ad una nobile famiglia che per ragioni di politica familiare l’aveva 
obbligata a prendere i voti. In questa descrizione, oltre al decoro e alla bellezza 
dell’ambiente, Casanova non manca di farci notare |’arrogante prevaricazione dei 
nobili nell’esercizio delle loro funzioni di biscazzieri: 


A deux heurs précises j’ai vu M. M. sortir de la gondole habillée et trés bien 
masquée en dame. Nous allames a l’opéra 4 S. Samuel, et a la fin du second ballet 
nous sommes allés au ‘ridotto’, ot elle se plut beaucoup a regarder toutes les dames 
patriciennes, qui en force de leur qualité, ont le privilége de pouvoir s’asseoir a 
visage découvert. Aprés nous etre promenés une demi-heure nous allames 4 la 
chambre des grands banquiers. Elle s’arréta devant la banque du seigneur Momolo 
Mocenigo, qui dans ce temps 14 était le plus beau de tous les jeunes joueurs 
patriciens. N’ayant point de jeu il se tenait nonchalamment assis devant deux mille 


3. M. M. sono le iniziali per il nome di Maria Maddalena che é il nome di Maria Lorenza 
Pasini, nata nel 1731, la quale figura tra le sedici religiose che vivevano nel convento di 
San Giacomo. Tutte le indicazioni fornite da Casanova a proposito della sua amante, 
confermano questa identificazione. Madre Maria Maddalena mori nel 1788, dopo essere 
stata badessa del suo convento. 


432 PATRIZIO ROSSI 


sequins la tete penchée vers l’oreille d’un masque dame assis 4 son coté. C’était 
Mme Marine Pisani, dont il était le chevalier adorateur. 

M. M. m’ayant demandé si je voulais jouer, et lui ayant répondu que non, elle 
me dit qu’elle me prenait de moitié; et sans attendre ma résponse, elle tire une 
bourse, et elle met sur une carte un rouleau. Le banquier, ne bougeant que de 
ses mains, mele, puis taille, et M. M. gagne sa carte et le reva au paroli. Le 
seigneur paye, puis prend un nouveau jeu de cartes, et se met a parler 4 1’oreille 
a sa dame voisine, se montrant indifférent 4 quatre cent sequins que M. M. avait 
déja mis sur la meme carte. Le banquier poursuivant 4 causer, M. M. me dit en 
bon frangais: "Notre jeun’est pas assez fort pour intéresser Monsieur, allons-nous- 
en." Disant cela, elle ote sa carte, et elle s’éloigne. Je ramasse |’or sans répondre 
a Monsieur qui me dit: — Votre masque est trop intolérant. Je rejoins ma belle 
joueuse qui était entourée. Elle s’arréte devant la banque du seigneur Pierre 
Marcello, jeune et charmant aussi, qui avait 4 son cote Mme Venier, soeur du 
seigneur Momolo. Elle joue, et elle perd cinq rouleaux de suite. N’ayant plus 
d’argent, elle prend hors de ma poche, ou j’avais les quatre cents sequins, l’or 
a poignée, et en quatre ou cinq tailles, elle réduit la banque a l’agonie. Elle quitte, 
et le noble banquier lui fait compliment sur son bonheur. Aprés avoir empoché 
tout cet or, je luidonne mon bras, et nous descendons pour aller souper. (Casanova 
IV, 74-75) 


Il giorno dell’ Ascensione, come gia si é detto, veniva celebrata in pompa magna 
lo sposalizio del mare. La celebrazione avveniva in quel giorno esatto, a meno 
che il cattivo tempo non la facesse posporre a una domenica successiva di bel tempo. 
Era questa l’occasione per un secondo carnevale: un carnevale estivo che durava 
due settimane e durante il quale si svolgeva anche la famosa fiera. Abbiamo diverse 
descrizioni da parte di stranieri di questo avvenimento e il De Lalande cosi lo 
ricorda: 


Le jour de 1’ Ascension occasionne 4 Venise une Seconde espece de carnaval qu’on 
appelle carnaval d’été, et une foire qui dure quinze jours, 4 cause de la cérémonie 
des épousailles de la mer. . . et qu’on appelle la féte de l’Assensa. (Lalande 513) 


Vuoi per il tempo piacevole, che permetteva un maggiore numero di eventi 
all’aperto, vuoi per lz relativa brevita dell’avvenimento, che obbligava ad 
intensificare il numero delle celebrazioni e degli spettacoli, il carnevale della ‘Sensa’, 
(tale era il nome che gli davano i veneziani), era noto ovunque per la sua vivacita 
e per la smoderatezza che caratterizzava i suoi vari “divertimenti”. Per queste 
ragioni, Ovviamente, la folla di stranieri che vi partecipava era quanto mai notevole, 
e nelle varie relazioni sono ancora pit spiccati l’interesse, l’attenzione e quindi anche 
lo stupore per gli eccessi a cui si arrivava. Tuttavia non é difficile notare, nelle 
Osservazioni di questi spettatori del fulgore veneziano, e particolarmente in quelle 
che si riferiscono alla seconda meta del secolo, un senso pit profondo di disagio 
per questa fantasmagoria di divertimenti, e quasi un presentimento del tramonto 
di quest’epoca d’oro dello splendore e della magnificenza di Venezia, presentimento 


Il carnevale di Venezia e i viaggiatori del Settecento 433 


che @ condiviso anche da scrittori dell’ambiente veneziano tra i quali il poeta 
dialettale Baffo é forse il pit esecrante vate. 

Durante questa stagione, piazza San Marco é ancora una volta il palcoscenico 
principale di tutte le manifestazioni, e la fiera che vi si @ allestita, con i suoi banchi, 
le merci, il cibo, ei soliti ciarlatani, saltimbanchi e chiromanti, attira come sempre 
un’ infinita di spettatori. Naturalmente, anche in questa occasione, si ritorna all’ uso 
della maschera, che si porta giorno e notte, e le prescrizioni sul suo uso sono ancora 
pil strette: sono permessi solamente tabarro, bautta e cappello, il tutto in nero; solo 
la maschera é bianca, e non si tollerano altri tipi di costumi: 


cet uniforme, qui n’a rien de réjouissant pour les yeux, est fort commode pour 
la liberté qu’il donne; il confond les états & les sexes. (Coyer 18) 


E’ unconformismo che stranamente s’estende anche al colore e allo stile delle 
gondole: 


Toutes les gondoles sont uniformes, couvertes & tapissées de noir: cela ressemble 
un peu 4 un deuil général. La République a voulu empécher le luxe dans cette 
partie, & aussi les marques d’inégalité qui affligent toujours le coeur humain. 
(Coyer 18) 


La monotonia cromatica, caratterizzata dal bianco e nero della maschera, ai quali 
si deve aggiungere il nero delle gondole, é permeata pero del tripudio carnascialesco: 
questa combinazione doveva dare un tetro senso barocco del contrasto mitico tra 
eros e thanatos che cosi profondamente caratterizza la cultura del momento. 

A questo punto della relazione, l’autore sembra sentire un’insolita stanchezza 
per il costante susseguirsi dei vari giochi e delle emozioni che essi offrono: 


Dans ce mouvement de plaisirs, les spectacles, les jeux, les promenades sur l’eau 
se succédent. Venise a sept a huit théatres qui portent des noms de Saints. L’opéra 
de Saint Jean Chrysostome & celui de Saint Luc, sont fort suivis. Les jeu s’ouvre 
tous les soirs pour ceux qui veulent se ruiner, ou ruiner les autres. L’or y est étalé 
par tas. C’est la République qui joue. Deux Senateurs tiennent la banque. (Coyer 
20) 


Meglio trovare refrigerio, dunque, sulle acque fresche ed accoglienti dei canali: 


Les promenades nocturnes sur le grand canal valent mieux que le jeu pour ceux 
que la cupidité ne domine pas. Des milliers de gondoles qui se croisent font 
spectacle, & favorisent la galanterie. Les dames vénitiennes ont secoué la contrainte 
ou elles vivaient encore dans le dernier siécle; & les maris ont oublié leur jalousie. 
Ils ne s’avisent pas de prendre le frais dans la gondole de leurs €pouses. (Coyer 
20) 


Ma tutto questo favorisce forse una corruzione generale dei costumi e delle leggi? 
No di certo, risponde il giudizio dello scrittore; si tratta unicamente di un’adeguata 
e oculata gestione degli interessi della repubblica, che non ha niente a che vedere 
con la criminalita: 


434 PATRIZIO ROSSI 


N’allez-vous point dire, qu’avec cette liberté extréme, sous le masque pendant 
quatre mois de l’année, avec cet enchainement de plaisirs, il doit y avoir une grande 
corruption? Si dans cette corruption vous comprenez les crimes que les loix 
punissent, vous étes dans l’erreur: quant au reste, la politique Vénitienne a balancé 
l’intérét des moeurs avec |’intérét de l’argent, que toute l’Europe y apporte; le 
dernier l’a emporté. (Coyer 21) 


Ci si sta avvicinando, pero, ai limiti di condiscendenza di questa insolita ‘ragion 
di stato’. La passione per il giuoco era divenuta cosi intensa e giungeva a tali eccessi 
che, secondo le Note di Stato, in certi ridotti: 


molti patrizi ed anche patrizie, si trovavano talvolta confusi a plebei, a truffatori, 
a borsaioli, a preti, a ebrei, a meretrici, e dopo aver perduto |’ultimo ducato, 
giocavano i loro gioielli e perfino le loro vesti. (Molmenti III, 279) 


La pratica del gioco d’azzardo stava mostrando 1 suoi lati pit deleteri e il Grande 
consiglio decise di abolirla. Sul finire del 1774 fu emanata una legge che vietava 
tutti i giuochi d’azzardo, primo effetto della quale fu la chiusura dei ridotti. 

Ange Goudar, nella sua opera La spia cinese, che, alla maniera delle Lettere 
persiane voleva esprimere le osservazioni di un orientale sui costumi dell’ Europa, 
ci parla di quel momento. La spia cinese, Le Mandarin Sin-ho-ci*, emissario della 
corte di Pechino, @ presente a Venezia in corrispondenza di questo decreto, e le 
sue ironiche illazioni non mancano di darci una pungente visione del fatto e delle 
sue conseguenze. Chiusi i ridotti, i veneziani non sanno pit come passare il tempo. 
Sono “tristi come berretti da notte”, la citta é morta e la gente va in giro silenziosa 
in cordoglio come, se fosse stata colpita da una gravissima disgrazia. (Molmenti 
III, 278) 

La celebrazione del carnevale continuo tuttavia in tutto il suo fascino, sebbene 
privata di questa grande attrazione. Ci si rende conto che J’interesse finanziario 
che esso rappresenta per la cittaé é essenziale; in effetti il successo di questa 
ricorrenza diventa una delle pratiche di pit grande rilievo per il governo, tanto che 
nel 1789 la morte del Doge stesso, viene sottaciuta per non turbare le celebrazioni 
del Carnevale.° 

La mite stagione estiva, che rendeva piacevole passare la notte fuori casa, dava 
una Caratteristica ancor libera, e persino torbida, alla festivita della ‘Sensa’. Oltre 
all’intimita galante offerta dalle gondole nel loro vagare notturno sui canali, ai bordi 
e nelle adiacenze della Piazza aveva luogo un vero e proprio baccanale notturno. 
Agli angoli delle calli, dietro le colonne o al riparo delle banche e delle tende dei 


4. Ange Goudar. L’espion chinois, Cologne, 1765. In questa pubblicazione manca il nome 
dell’editore perché, in realta, il libro fu stampato segretamente ad Amsterdam o forse a 
Londra. 


5. Raimondo della Rocca e Maria Francesca Tiepolo, “Cronologia veneziana del Settecento” 
in Civilta veneziana del Settecento (Firenze, Sansoni, 1960), p.282. 


Il carnevale di Venezia e i viaggiatori del Settecento 435 


venditori, un tramestio di gente profittava del buio e della calca d’ogni sorta di 
uomini e di donne per abbandonarsi ai pid aperti sollazzi amorosi. 

Il De Brosse, pure molto contenuto nei suoi giudizi, nella sua corrispondenza 
informa gli amici in Francia che il numero delle cortigiane a Venezia non é cosi 
grande “que l’on marche dessus”; c’é pero un eccezione, soggiunge: “cela n’a lieu 
que pendant le temps de carnaval, ov l’on trouve sous les arcades de Procuraties 
autant de femmes couchées que debout.” (I, 159) 

Unevento di tale portata, con tutte le implicazioni umane che comportava non 
poteva sfuggire all’umore caustico e accorato di Giorgio Baffo. “Poeta nel pit lubrico 
dei generi” ma “grande senza pari”, lo definisce Giacomo Casanova, “per avere 
mostrato nelle sue pagine nient’altro che delle piaghe e per essersene morbosamente 
compiaciuto.” Ma queste piaghe non sono neppure quelle del Settecento o della 
decadenza veneziana: “sono le eterne piaghe dell’uomo combattuto dalla carne, 
il risvolto truculento e sordido della galanteria”. (Baffo 12-13) 

Fino a tempi assai recenti, le riserve morali e la limitatezza critica con cui é 
sempre stata considerata l’opera del Baffo, sono state le cause maggiori della sua 
scarsa fortuna. Ma basterebbe considerare solamente alcuni sonetti (tra i quali quello 
sulla Sensa) con una sensibilita analitica pid aperta, per rendersi conto dell’ insolito 
valore di questo poeta. 

Il sonetto s’apre con questi versi: “A sventolarse per Sensa ha scomenza/ 
bocassini, e cambrae tutta la notte”, cio’: “sventolano per la Piazza e per le rive 
adiacenti bocassini e cambrae”, che sono le sciarpe, e i veli, o grembiuli di tela 
d’Olanda (“di Cambrai”) con cui le donne del popolo si coprivano il capo. Sono 
cominciate le celebrazioni della Sensa, il baccanale notturno che avvolge nobili e 
plebei nell’ uniformita dell’ erotismo; essi hanno pero smarrito le loro caratteristiche 
sociali e nella descrizione del poeta non sono pid altro che una informe e dolente 
umanita. La descrizione del Baffo é di una tale potenza da “far sorgere la visione 
d’una Gomorra nell’imminenza dello sdegno divino”. In quei pochi versi é possibile 
cogliere infatti il procedere di una folla tormentata simile “al fluttuare greve e 
maleodorante di una cloaca sulla quale si muovono gli spettri d’un mondo gia 
disfatto”, finché il convulso agitarsi di veli bianchi, di cappe e di tabarri, si arresta 
di colpo per far posto a un grido di allarme: “Scampé, scampé, foresti. . . Fuggite, 
o forestieri, dall’oscena festa e dal tripudio bestiale sotto il quale si nasconde il 
volto gessoso della morte.” (Baffo 10-11) 


University of California at Santa Barbara 


436 


PATRIZIO ROSSI 


SORA LA FERA DE VENEZIA 


A sventolarse per Sensa ha scomenza 
bocassini, e cambrae tutta la notte. 
Qua de culi smerdai se fa merca, 

la ghé fiera de tette e qua de potte. 


Chi buzzara de qua, chi de 1a fotte, 

a chi i ghe *! mena, a chi i ghe I’ha mena 
chi gh’ha el cazzo smerda fin le ballotte, 
chi se forbe, se suga, e s’ha suga. 


Chi da questa vien via, che va da quelle, 
e se no i pol far altro, i ghe la tocca 
Tanto che i va sin presso alle buelle. 


Scampé, scampé foresti, quella cocca, 
Lavé quel culo pien de zanzarelle, 
Se no v’impestaré sora la bocca. 
(Baffo, Poesie, p. 299) 


OPERE CITATE 


Giorgio Baffo, Poesie. Milano, Mondadori, 1991. 

Giacomo Casanova, Histoire de ma vie. Wiesbaden, Brockhaus; Paris, Plon, 1960. 
Gabriel-Frangois Coyer. Voyage d’Italie. Paris, Veuve Duchesne, 1776. 

Gino Damerini, La civilia veneziana del Settecento. Firenze, Sansoni, 1960. 

Charles de Brosses, Lettres familiéres. Paris, Perrin, 1885, 2 vol. 

Jéréme Le Frangois de la Lande, Voyage d’un Francais en Italie. Paris, Desaint, 1786. 
Alexandre Toussaint Limojon de Saint-Didier, La Ville et la république de Venise. Paris, 


Barbin, 1680. 


Pompeo Molmenti, Storia di Venezia nella vita privata. Bergamo, 1927-1929. 
Sieur de Rogissart, Les Délices de I’ltalie. Paris, Compagnie des Libraires, 1707. 


DIANA MODESTO 





Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 
in the Works of Marie Montemerli 


The French-born Countess Marie Montemerli, does not fit neatly into any one of 
the categories of “scrittrici viaggiatrici”' of the last century, although, in some 
marginal way, she is representative of them all. A prolific writer of political 
tracts,” she also enjoyed a modest success as a writer of romantic novels.* She 
came to Italy in 1848 as a young wife and mother, and by chance, found herself 
in Milan during the uprising against the Austrians. It is her three accounts of these 
days in different genres that this article will consider, for in each of these versions 
(a diary, a novel and a political tract) she fulfils some of the criteria of each of 
these large categories of “scrittrici viaggiatrici.” 

At the time of the events recounted above, she kept a diary in which the 
turbulent events of the “Cinque Giornate” figure only marginally. Considerably 
later, when she had already achieved a reputation as a writer of political tracts, 
she published a Gothic novel, La bella balia, which is set in Italy in 1848. It was 
only after the events of that year that her husband became an ardent nationalist and 
an a somewhat radical backer of the liberation of Italy, a cause which she embraced 
with equal passion and devotion, but as a result thereof, her life became one long 
journey and she never appears to have settled anywhere. 


Poche vite, specialmente di donna, sono state pil varie rispetto allo spazio; e si 


1. In “Viaggio intorno al Viaggio”, Viaggio e Scrittura: Le Straniere nell’Italia 
dell’Ottocento. Geneva: Slatkine, 1988, Liana Borghi et al. classify these women writers 
in four large categories: “quelle che scrivono nei diari; quelle che scindono pubblico e 
privato; le viaggiatrici che s’identificano con il maschile, le emancipate che vengono a far 
carriera; le viaggiatrici che considerano il viaggio un percorso simbolico”. 


2. Most of these, though published separately at the time of writing have been collected 
in Raccolta di alcuni scritti politici (Florence: Mariani 1861); Semprevivi Patri, pref. C. 
Gaggiolli (Florence: Ducci, 1883), and L’ultimo sospiro del Potere Temporale (Florence, 
1861). 


3. La bella balia (London: W. Jeffs, 1859); Entre deux femmes (Paris: A. Faure, 1865); 
Les Filles d’un gouverneur des Indes (Histoire du Grand Monde) (London: W. Jeffs, 1860? 
[mentioned as “sous presse” in La bella balia, but not traceable]; Les Sensations d’une 
morte (Paris: Hachette, 1863). 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


438 DIANA MODESTO 


direbbe che in cid pure la Provvidenza, la Fortuna, intendesse a preparare ... una 
straordinaria e lodevolissima Cittadina Umanitaria. Nata a Blois d’illustre 
famiglia Portoghese e di madre Francese, moglie di un Italiano, ebbe per teatro 
della sua modesta ed operosa esistenza, fra i casi pill inattesi e le vicende pit 
insolite ed ardue, Lisbona, Oporto, Parigi, Londra, Napoli, Milano, Torino, Pisa, 
Firenze, Ancona, di nuovo a Parigi, Brescia, di nuovo Ancona, Firenze, Londra 
(da cui si recd in Egitto per invito del famoso Lesseps, suo amico, ad assistere 
all’inaugurazione del gran CANALE) e finalmente Londra e Parigi ove si spense 
nella magnanima assistenza ai feriti della micidialissima Guerra. (1870-71: 25 
marzo)‘ 


The Countess was born Marie Soares d’ Albergaria Pereira in 1821 in Romorantin, 
France, of a French mother and a Portuguese father. It was probably in Porto that 
she met her husband-to-be, the dashing opera singer Lorenzo Montemerli, an Italian 
from Pisa, who was singing in Porto and Lisbon from 1843 to 1845, and had 
resigned his commission in the Italian Army” to dedicate himself to singing under 
the pseudonym of Signor Lorenzo. They were married in Fontaines-en-Sologne 
(France) in 1845 and, in the early years of their marriage Lorenzo appears to have 
continued his career as a bass, singing in opera theatres all over Italy.° 

It was after spending the Christmas of 1847 with Marie’s family in Blois, that 
the Countess seems to have begun her career as an author. Her earliest known 
writing is an unpublished diary that began on New Year’s Day of 1848 as they left 
for Marseille where they were to embark for Italy, arriving in Milan on the 14th 
of January. Lorenzo had hoped to find work at La Scala and they moved into an 
apartment in Via Porta Romana. The period in Milan was one of disappointment 
for Lorenzo who was unable to secure a satisfactory contract and one of domestic 
turmoil for Marie, since the children seem to have been constantly ill. On the 18th 
of March, they had packed their bags and were preparing to leave, when Marie 
became ill and the departure was delayed. It was on this day that the glorious 
“Cinque Giornate” of Milan began. 

Strangely, the account in the diary, which seems to have been actually started 
at the end of March or beginning of April, that is shortly after the events 


4. Prefazione di Corrado Gargiolli, Maria Montemerli Soares d’Albergaria, Semprevivi Patri 
(Florence: Ducci, 1882), p. v. 


5. 9.8.1843; Doc. 24 in the Romola Papers, ina private collection. (Romola Martindale, 
daughter of Matilde Montemerli, to whom these papers belonged, was a grandaughter of 
Lorenzo and Marie. She used these papers for an article, “Italia 1861” which appeared 
in a Sydney journal, La Critica, in July/August 1961). 


6. The scrapbook in the Romola Papers has newspaper cuttings which show him singing 
in Portoferraio, Bologna, Pesaro and Ravenna. 


Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 439 
themselves, and then written retrospectively, is brief:’ 


A bad toothache made us put off our departure until the Sunday, but on the 
morning of Saturday the 18th of March the terrible and glorious revolution, which 
was to bring eternal honour to all Milanese, broke out. My impressions of these 
five days of battles, murders and atrocities on the part of the Austrians, of courage 
and generosity on the part of the Italians, are undescribable. ... 

I shall pass rapidly over the non-personal part since it will be easy for me 
to write its story at a later date. (Diary, pp. 7-8) 


The rest of the diary is domestic trivia, largely built around Lorenzo’s comings 
and goings as instructor of the “Battaglione degli Adolescenti,” with occasional 
accounts of manoeuvres and his moments of glory. One such account of the 
blessing of the flag on Thursday 26 May is a typical example: 


At 11.30 Lorenzo’s regiment with the band in front passed beneath my windows, 
the adolescents in the middle, and stopped outside my door. Signor Roncalli and 
the Count Sanseverino came to get me. I came down the stairs carrying the flag 
and a tri-coloured sash in my hands. I gave the flag to the youth who was to carry 
it, and after having put the sash over his shoulder, kissed him on the forehead, 
took Count Sanseverino’s arm and we walked to the Church. Shortly afterwards 
the adolescents and the troop arrived. Needless to say the Church was packed 
with spectators. For me there was an armchair and a prie-Dieu in red velvet. I 
was wearing a delicious white dress, with magnificent lace-work and a large rose, 
and a hat with white feathers. In the benediction they named me and Signorina 
Resta as godmothers. 

The Church was all decorated and after a sung Mass, there were salvoes of 
rejoicing by Lorenzo’s battalion. On coming out of the Church we all went to one 
the reception rooms of the Seminary where Signor de Castro read a magnificent 
speech. Signorina Resta and I had two armchairs, one each side of the President. 
That day Lorenzo was hailed many times with Vivas and Bravoes. (Diary, pp. 
17-18) 


In this diary she is the typical image of what was expected of a woman of her 
period, concerned with describing the feminine fripperies of dresses; she is the wife 
who stays at home and waits for her husband, a mere reflection of his importance 
and achievements, recounting the tedious details of domestic life, the childrens’ 
illnesses and even marital squabbles, for which she always takes responsibility, 
using the diary as a form of chastisement and vehicle for apologising. But 
interspersed with these rather tedious accounts, are glimmers of the writer she 


7. The diary, which covers the period from January to July, is handwritten in French. The 
translation is mine. There is a clear change in style around the 6th of April, p.10, where 
the account takes on true diary style of the recounting of events day by day. 


440 DIANA MODESTO 


would later become. 

On one such occasion, a forgotten anniversary of some sort on the 31 May, 
we find, bracketed between two instances of self-accusation, a rather moving 
description of another of these intensely patriotic moments: 


My God, spare me from these moments of squabbling over unimportant matters 
that hurt my beloved husband. He had heard of a great victory of ours and of the 
taking of Peschiera. All the bells were ringing in joyous discordance and the 
cannon was fired. It was decided that, in honour of the occasion, the whole of 
the National Guard would parade through the streets to the Government Palace. 
In fact at 6 pm the ceremony began, Lorenzo on horseback at the head of his 
Regiment and the Battalion of Adolescents, who were carrying the flags of the 
Italian States, Naples, Rome and Tuscany and Piedmont, and were greeted with 
cries of ‘Viva i Prodi Toscani’. Last came the flags of the Two Sicilies, draped 
in black to mourn the horrors committed in those unfortunate states. This was 
Lorenzo’s idea, but Casati® was so touched by it that he stopped them and made 
a magnificent speech to the men and the youths leading them. I can truly say that 
they then did him all honours, with ‘Long Live Montemerli’ and ‘Long Live the 
Tuscans’ written on the walls along the streets. They then accorded him a great 
honour at the Seminary, forming a square and he gave a speech. They applauded 
him loudly, they all embraced him, they all kissed his hands. (Diary, pp. 20-21) 


It was not until 1859 that she was to return to describe the events she had witnessed 
as a young wife and mother in those days in Milan, in her first novel to be accepted 
for publication. The work itself is a great surprise in view of the submissive style 
of the diary. Its title, La bella balia, gives no hint of the contents. It is, in fact, 
a rather bland story of a beautiful young woman, Marietta, a weaver of straw hats, 
married unhappily to a drunk, “le pére Viti”, by whom she has a child. When the 
child is only a few months old, she is obliged to find the only work available to 
her, as a wet-nurse in an aristocratic family, where she falls in love with the son 
of the gardener. Most of the first part of the book traces the development of the 
relationship between the two women, the poor health of the Marquise contrasting 
with the vigourous health of the wet-nurse, the two protagonists, joined by 
motherhood, having in common only the characteristics of nobility of soul and a 
self-sacrificing femininity. 

It is this other family that lives through the five days of Milan, and it is her 
former employer, the Marquis and the gardener’s son, Battista, who find glory on 
the barricades in Milan. The heroine of the novel and the wife of the Marquis 


8. The mayor of Milan and leader of the more conservative group of aristocrats who wished 
to merge the province of Lombardy with the Kingdom of Sardinia (G. Martin, Red Shirt 
and Cross of Savoy: The Story of Italy’s Risorgimento. New York: Dodd, Mead & Co., 
1969, p. 299). 


Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 441 


remain distant from the battle, one in the country and the other sequestered with 
her children and servants behind the closed shutters of the house near Porta 
Romana. 

The strongly autobiographic nature of the story is hinted at in the Preface, 
where she warns the reader that this a true story, not an invention; that she had 
known Marietta personally and that there is no merit or blame due to her as she 
is only recounting events that actually took place. 

The first real hint of this personal element in the story, however, is the name 
chosen for the Marquis: Giacchini. This is one of the names of the title that her 
family had insisted on becoming hers with the marriage, Lorenzo’s full family name 
being Montemerli Giachini del Becco Sandonnini.? The name of the Marquise 
Giacchini is Matilde, while the child nursed by the Balia, is Marie, a reversal of 
the real situation of the author whose name was Marie and whose child was Matilde 
and it is easy to see the Marquise as the possibly somewhat romanticised fictitious 
counterpart of the Contessa herself. The setting of the novel, in the countryside 
near Pisa, in the real town of Orciano, is where the Montemerli properties, later 
to be confiscated by the Austrians, were situated. Instead of Porta Romana, the 
Giacchini family take up residence in the environs of the Porta Orientale, in 
February 1848, but again similarly, on return from a long journey through 
Germany and France. 

Chapters XVI, and XVII “L’homme propose et Dieu dispose” and “Une 
Rencontre”, are those which deal in detail with the uprising in Milan, and here 
again we find strong autobiographical elements, but whether they are romanticised 
or not is difficult to ascertain, given the Countess’ s reluctance to discuss these 
non-personal’ events inher diary. While certain parallels, like the above, are only 
too easy to identify, there are traces too in the story of a projection upon her 
protagonist of those feelings of responsibility for her husband’s misfortunes that 
mirror those that the Countess had assumed in the diary. Although Guido Giacchini 
is followed everywhere by amember of the Austrian secret police, Matilde selfishly 
feels that this is a small price to pay for the beautiful view of the Duomo of Milan 
that she has from the windows of her appartment and extends the lease for a month. 
The fact that she is pale and tired, having just given birth to another child, and 
needs rest, obliging Guido to resign himself to staying in Milan, is given almost 
as an afterthought. 

It is during this period that Guido challenges the man who has been following 


9. Archivio Ceramelli Papiani da Picchena, 6049, in the Archivio di Stato, Firenze. The 
importance that this title had for her, probably the only financial benefit which resulted from 
the marriage, is shown by the fact that it appears in all her works, in the authorial credits, 
and even when people talk about her and when she talks about herself, she is always 
Contessa Marie Montemerli. Lorenzo, on the other hand, probably a true liberal, 
disregarded it and signed himself simply C. L. Montemerli. 


442 DIANA MODESTO 


him and makes him a figure of ridicule, by turning on his follower and thanking 
him publicly in front of Café Martini for his assiduous attentions, much to the 
amusement of the onlookers. This incident between Guido and the secret police 
may be a fictitious account of an event which took place in the same year of the 
publication of the book, when documents in the Archivio di Stato in Florence show 
that Lorenzo was followed by the secret police and his daily contacts were reported 
on by the Capo Commesso della Vigilanza: 


L’ex-Capitano Montemerli di Campiglia dimorante in Firenze, é tuttora reperibile 
in questa citta e frequenta tutti i giorni da Castelm—(?)."° 


His imminent arrival in Tuscany some four months earlier had also been reported 
from Casale (Piedmont) to Ricasoli, the Minister for the Interior, by a certain Neri 
Corsini who described Lorenzo as “cattivo cantante e sempre cattivo soggetto e 
da non fidarsene.”'' The description given by Ricasoli to his brother Vincenzo 
several years later, bears out the suggestion that Guido’s behaviour in the book 
may well reflect Lorenzo’s character: “E’ vero quello che tu dici, Montemerli é 
sempre lo stesso. Originale, irrequieto.”’ 

The result of the ridiculing of the secret policeman in La Bella Balia is that 
Guido is summoned to the police station on the 17th of March, and is politely 
ordered by the Magistrate to leave Milan within 24 hours, the account closely 
paralleling the real experience of the Countess as recounted in the diary: 


Matilde prepared for her departure; her husband had been exposed, and she knew 
him too well to think that he would want to leave a city where he had the 
opportunity to show his hatred for Austria; she therefore considered this order 
by the government as a divine favour which would remove her dear Guido from 
the growing peril ... it was therefore with bitter words on his lips and rage in his 
heart that he prepared to leave. The carriage was at the door, the servants had 
loaded it, but Matilde was ill, and, instead of leaving early in the morning, they 
decided to leave Milan later, in the afternoon. 

There was something very unsettled about that day of the 18th of March; a 
feeling of oppression was felt by all; all night armed patrols had marched through 
the street where they lived and she had counted nine of these within just two 
hours.....; 

Radetzki had let these hateful words fall from his dried and shrivelled lips: 


10. Archivio di Stato - Firenze - Archivio Ricasoli Firidolfi, Cass. 10, n. 10: Rapporti di 
. Individui sospetti reazionari, Doc. 8, 4.9.1859, Firenze . 


11. Archivio di Stato - Firenze - Archivio Ricasoli Firidolfi, Cass. 30, n.44, letter of 
21.5.1859, Casale. 


12. Archivio di Stato - Firenze - Archivio Ricasoli Firidolfi, Cass. 98, n.78, letter of the 
10.11.1878 from Vincenzo Ricasoli to his brother, the Baron Ricasoli. 


Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 443 


“We must not hesitate, fifteen days of terror will give Lombardy fifteen years 
of peace!” ... At 10.30 Matilde heard the sound of rapid footsteps in the street; 
they were those of mothers running in terror and gathering together their children 
to shut them up in their houses! The horses were about to be harnessed to the 
carriage, when, at the top of the road a compact crowd of people appeared 
carrying tricoloured flags in front of them. ... This was not just a demonstration 
by the people, these were the most important men in the city, the nobles, the city’s 
elegant and opulent youth, people who could think, who could reason, with hearts 
that could not be bought. The crowd continued on its way to the government 
offices . . The Austrians in the guard posts fled, abandoning their rifles (the first 
to fall into the hands of the Milanese). The shots heard from afar produced an 
unheard of effect; men came furtively out of their houses, and, as if by magic, 
the barricades appeared. One was erected in front of the house of the Marquise, 
and one of the first building materials for these barriers was naturally her 
carriage. 


The volume of the illustrated series Storia di Milano" has a reproduction of a 
painting of a barricade erected at Porta Romana during the Five Days which clearly 
shows carriages had been used, pointing to the fact that this too is an eyewitness 
account of what actually occurred. The rest of the account of those days makes 
Stirring reading, replete as it is with autobiographical details: 


Radezki, now warned, had them beat to arms and one could hear in the distance 
sinister drum rolls, like the sound of an avalanche sweeping away all in its path. 

Matilde felt herself trembling; her husband was extremely pale; she could 
see that a moment of immense trial was approaching; she threw her arms around 
his neck, but she did not weep. “You are going to join them,” she said to him; 
‘May God protect you!’ As soon as she had said these words, the heavy and 
regular marching of soldiers was heard; they had come to dismantle and destroy 
the barricade; a group of Milanese on the roof of the house opposite that of the 
Marquise, shot at the troops. The rough voice of a Croatian officer was heard 
ordering the troops to fire; as the sound of the shots rang out, everyone ran out 
of the rooms facing onto the street; the Marquise stayed there alone with her 
husband, clasping his arm, and they both cried out as they saw three Milanese 
hit and fall from the roof into the street below. The barricade was pulled down, 
the carriages dragged away, and a picket of Croatian soldiers was set up at the 
head of a lane almost opposite the Giacchini’s house. Now all the windows and 
shutters of the rooms looking out onto the streets were closed, doors were 
barricaded, and everyone crept around on tiptoe as if the slightest noise might 
provoke a visit from the terrible Croats who had been left in charge of the street. 
From time to time they shuddered at the sound of shots, both close at hand and 


13. La bella balia, p. 202. 
14. Storia di Milano (Milan: Treccani, 1960), XIV, 347 and 353. 


444 DIANA MODESTO 
in the distance, the streets were deserted in the full sun of the middle of the day. 


Scenes too terrible to repeat happened on the day of the 19th; all the church 
bells rang the alarm, calling for help from people in the countryside; this noise, 
in its sinister melancholy, was of great encouragement to the people, who 
understood by it that all the bell towers were in Milanese hands, that the 
insurrection had extended to the whole city. This great sound of brass bells was 
not in vain; all could believe that it was tolling the knell of foreign domination; 
peasants ran to Milan armed with ancient blunderbusses, with pitchforks, picks, 
anything that could become a weapon to defeat their oppressors. The uprising 
was united, surprising and immense; it extended from the mountains of Brianza 
to the Po River, from the Ticino to the Adda; Venice revolted at the same time 
on the same day as Milan; an impetuous people’s movement had been enough to 
bring down from its pedestal this hideous monster that everyone believed was 
invincible, the monster of “foreign despotism.” (La bella balia, pp. 202-204, 206- 
207) 


In one of the three collections of her political works that were published over a 
period of some twenty years,'’ there is a preview of La bella balia, which 
additionally illustrates the autobiographical nature of the work." 


Il fondamento del racconto é tratto da fatti privati e veri, ma € qua e 1a sparso 
d’intromesse sugli avvenimenti pubblici e i rovesci della fortuna, per cui il 
meraviglioso moto italiano termino tanto dolorosamente nella fatale giornata di 
Novara. Cosi il libro ha maggiore importanza che il nudo titolo non parrebbe 
per avventura promettere. L’Autrice mostrasi molto sollecita delle sorti d'Italia, 
della quale, con belle e schiette parole difende animosamente la fama non potuta 
mai contaminare dai codardi oltraggi degli stranieri. Consacra parecchie pagine 
alla descrizione della infame oppressura onde gli Austriaci ebbero stanca la 
magnanima Milano, e degnamente rappresenta la memoranda vendetta delle 
Cinque giornate. Tai cose ricordando, le sgorga da larga vena facile e bollente 
d’affetto la parola, serbando pero sempre quella ingenua semplicita e schiettezza 
che tanto bene si addice alla donna. Talvolta la Montemerli leva la mente a 
considerazioni di politica general europea, ed i suoi pensieri sono sodi e 
aggiustati.!” 


15. Raccolta di alcuni scritti politici della Contessa Maria Montemerli (Florence: Mariani, 
1861) [Biblioteca Nazionale Firenze 6815.41] and Semprevivi Patri, cit., [British Library 
8033.G.21], which cites an earlier edition of her works, Scritti politici, edited by Ermalao 
Rubieri (p. xxvii) which I have been unable to find, although it may have been published 
in Portugal. 


16. G. Martin, The Red Shirt, pp. 504-507. 


17. The introduction in Raccolta di alcuni scritti politici (Florence: Mariani, 1861), p. 59. 


Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 445 


While it is true that it is only in these two chapters that these outspoken anti- 
Austrian tirades are found in this novel, large part of the chapters in question deal 
with the political situation of 1848, as well as the effects that the rapid and 
unexpected peace treaty, agreed to by Loius-Naploleon and the Austrians at 
Villafranca and ratified at Zurich in 1859, had on the whole of the European 
political scene, at times in the same paragraph. In an impassioned address to the 
people of Europe, with regard to the monster of foreign domination, she cries: 


People, why tremble? What sovreignity is more valuable than your own? Are 
you not masters of your own countries? Can you be anihilated by anyone at all? 
Are you not uncountable? Has there ever been a tyrant powerful enough to make 
a people vanish from the surface of the globe? Like the earth that you tread on, 
you can be overthrown, but not destroyed! Be united, be patriots; then there will 
be no need for the intervention of outsiders, there will be no need for Treaties 
of Zurich to prop up your masters. You will be king and sovereign, they will 
bow down before you in the dust, and in their hearts they will thank you if you 
do not put them to death. (La bella balia, p. 207) 


A little later she again digresses from the story to praise the courage of the Italian 
people, and surprisingly to praise Louis-Napoleon, with a foresight not shared 
among other Italian patriots and historians, but possibly due to the fact that, as 
much as she espoused the Italian cause, she was French: 


Most historians, in the years since Villafranca, have judged Napoleon justified, 
in the interests of France and of his dynasty, in stopping the war. Sentiments 
among the governments of Europe ... was rising against him. ... [A]ttacking the 
Austrians in the Quadrilateral would have been expensive in men and money. 
... As it was, in less than eight weeks, having gone to Italy and wrested Lombardy 
from Austria, he was back in Paris as a magnanimous victor with peace assured. 

Yet he was followed out of Italy by cries of rage and hatred. ... For however 
great the shock of Villafranca to Italians, it was also a shock for Franz Josef. 
Napoleon had come into the Po valley and done what the Italians could never have 
done by themselves; he had hit the Austrian army so hard that he had cracked 
the thick crust of Austrian power which covered the peninsular and smothered 
every attempt of the Italians to free themselves. ..._ But in the weeks after 
Villafranca the Italian patriots could not see what had been accomplished, they 
only saw what had been promised and then withdrawn." 


At the end of her plea for understanding for Napoleon III, she apologises to the 


readers for her digression and for having kept them in suspense as to the fate of 
Guido and Matilde: 


18. G. Martin, The Red Shirt, p. 507-508. 


446 DIANA MODESTO 


Yet, will not this page of the life of Napoleon III be one of the most beautiful in 
history? Do you not see that he could not have freed Italy with a single blow 
without incurring the jealousy of the other nations? The work of Napoleon is not 
finished; as an able captain he knew how to turn his boat in sight of land and head 
out again to sea; by remaining out upon the high seas, he fears not currents nor 
reefs; this brilliant man, counting on help from above, has known how to stop 
in the middle of his work, he knows how to wait. 

When the time and the place will be right, we will see him fulfil his 
promises. The malevolent and the narrow-minded accuse him; may God grant 
him time to complete his great design. (La bella balia, p. 215) 


The third and final account of this event is found in a political tract written some 
two years after La bella balia was published. In one of her open letters addressed 
to the women of France, she described these events and explained the change in 
attitude that this Italian experience had brought about: 


After my marriage, I became Italian and for the first time I felt the 
inextinguishable love of country; not the passionate love of the Légitimiste... . 
but the love of a patriot, who would sacrifice liberty and love for the good of his 
country. ... 

I became a Liberal, ‘malgré moi’, by instinct and without a moment of doubt. 
... Finding myself by chance in Milan in those glorious days of March 1848, I heard 
with pride the first shots exchanged between the Milanese and the Austrians. 
Trembling and brave at the same time, I was proud to see my husband in the midst 
of the battle, and this burning Nationalism, this first sacrifice of my most treasured 
loved ones, which was to be followed by many more sacrifices, were my baptism as 


a patriot. 
Milan fell again under the hated yolk, and the hearts of her children were 
once more crushed beneath the Austrians feet. ... We left the country and for 


ten long years endured volontary exile, preferring that to living under the pitiless 
gaze of the oppressors of our country.’ 


It is this third account in which one can find a suggestion of a key to the other two 
versions, particularly with regard to the autobiographical element in the novel. 
The Marquise is the writer herself, or at least how she saw herself. The problem 
with her classification as a person and as a writer is that, despite the fact that she 
would seem to have crossed the line between masculine and feminine writing in 
this last example, it is still to women that she addresses her novel and many of her 


19. This work is not dated and is translated from a hand-written account in French found 
among her papers. The fact that it is written on paper embossed with Windsor Castle sets 
it probably during one of her visits to England, in 1859 or 1860. 





Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 447 


political tracts and the heroines of her novels, models of propriety and 
femininity, also inhabit this half-world as wives and yet are, to some degree, 
mistresses of their own destiny, in a world that is masculinely oriented. Perhaps 
her failed attempt to found a Royal School for the orphaned daughters of Italian 
Army officers in 1861,” best demonstrates her desire for women through 
education to be able to cross this line, which she herself tried to do. 

In all her novels, like in those of many other female writers of this period, 
her heroines always manage to re-establish order and family values triumph over 
love outside marriage.” In Entre Deux Femmes, also set in Italy and in Florence, 
she is clearly identifiable in both the heroine Margherita who is in love with 
Lucien,” a count, married to Thérése, the other female protagonist. She is both 
the one who acts, as well as the one who passively waits at home with the children 
and accepts, unquestioningly, the bizarre behaviour of her love-sick husband. 

After the death of her husband, Margherita travels to Paris to forget Lucien, 
but there finds him ill with typhoid and nurses him back to health. When he 
returns to his wife, he cannot live without Margherita, but cannot bring himself 
to leave Thérése, so he gradually declines and dies, and the order is not destroyed. 
While, as the title suggests, the novel deals in depth with the relationship between 
the two women, it is only at the end of the book that one realises that it is Lucien 
to whom the title refers as it is he who is torn between two women. 

Her voyages often crossed the same paths of her more famous French 
contemporaries, Mme de Staél and George Sand, as well as of other women 
writers, although it does not appear they ever met: 


Il percorso ottocentesco é ricco di nodi psicologici o “viaggiatori”, uno di questi 
é certamente quello dell’Indipendenza Italiana che, muovendo in molti casi da un 
sentimento di emancipazione in favore degli oppressi, porta le donne di altri paesi 
a vivere e combattere sul suolo italiano. In Italia le donne celebri si incrociano 


20. See in Raccolta di alcuni scritti politici della Contessa Maria Montemerli, and 
Semprevivi Patri, “Les Femmes et la guerre”, “Les Femmes et les blessés”, “Indirizzo alla 
donne d'Italia pel riscatto di Venezia”. 


21. Open letter to Victor Emmanuel II, “Projet d’une Maison Royale d’Education pour les 
Filles des Officiers de 1’Armée 4 Sa Majesté Vittorio Emanuele II” in Semprevivi Patri, 
pp. 45-49. Apparently, after she was sent on a fact-finding mission to France by Pettiti, 
the then Minister for War, on her return a change of Minister resulted her not being 
compensated for her expenses and in long correspondence with Ricasoli and Emilia Peruzzi, 
Archivio Ricasoli Firidolfi, Cass. 58, Archivio di Stato di Firenze. 


22. What Umberto Eco describes as “donne che accettano le regole del gioco” in “Tre donne 
intorno al cor ...”, Carolina Invernizio, Matilde Serao, Liala (Florence: La Nuova Italia), 
1979, p. 26: 


23. Her heroines are usually Marquises, Countesses or nobility and generally have names 
which begin with M. 


448 DIANA MODESTO 


€ Si conoscono e riconoscono, i loro percorsi, spesso accidentati, muovano 
dall’Inghilterra e dall’America su e gill per la penisola, dal Nord al Sud e 
viceversa.* 


As a young mother aged 23 in 1848, the Countess seems to have lived very much 
in Lorenzo’s shadow, tied to the house by the needs of her young children and of 
rather delicate health, it was only later that she seems to have achieved a certain 
autonomy in her life and in her writing. The years between 1849 and 1866 saw 
her and her two surviving daughters follow Lorenzo into volontary exile in 
England, raising money for the Italian cause and, on her return to Italy, like many 
of her female contemporaries, she was personally involved in the revolutionary 
activities of the period: 


... quasi tutti i viaggiatori in Italia intorno a meta secolo furono direttamente o 
indirettamente coinvolti nell’attivita rivoluzionaria, specialmente all’inizio della 
campagna di Garibaldi intorno al ’60.”° 


In June 1866, she responded to a personal call from Garibaldi and journeyed from 
Paris to Brescia to nurse the wounded, publishing the account of this experience 
in Good Words for the Young, a British magazine.*° This account, which is both 
a diary and a story, albeit a true one, the gap between the heroine of the story and 
the author has disappeared. She IS the heroine, and modestly recounts her own 
victories over the intolerant doctors as she is gradually accepted as nurse and 
companion to the wounded officers. 

It is her description of her journey to Salo, before beginning her duties as 
nurse, that best demonstrates her greater independence as a woman and maturity 
as a writer, but also shows to what degree she felt herself to be Italian, even to 
the extent of altering her nationality when speaking to French fellow-travellers, 
and it marks a change in her previous magnanimous feelings towards Louis 
Napoleon in La bella balia: 


I was in Paris when the war of 1866 against Austria broke out. My agitation was 
great. I longed to take part in the glorious struggle which I believed would be 
the last between Italy and foreign domination. It seemed to me to be the duty 
of every Italian to give what he could to his country by partaking in its efforts 


24. A. Bianchini, “Il viaggio d’amore,” in Viaggio e scrittura: le straniere nell’ltalia 
dell’Ottocento, pp. 34-35. 


25. S. Foster, “Donne inglesi in Italia: appunti di viaggio” in Viaggio e scrittura, p. 61. 


26. “The Italian Wounded: Four Months in a Garibaldian Hospital,” Good Words for the 
Young. This very detailed account appeared in five instalments, from May to September, 
1868. 


Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 449 


and sacrifices. ... On the 19th of June, I wrote to Garibaldi offering to go with 
my daughters?’ to nurse the wounded. On the 23rd the General replied to me 
from Salo, a town situated upon the Lago di Garda, begging me to set out at once 
and without delay. 

My journey was performed with a rapidity that allowed of no rest. We 
learned en route that Venice had been given by Franz Joseph to the Emperor 
Napoleon, and that the latter had offered it as a present to Italy! All the national 
pride within me was wounded by this intelligence. Some French gentlemen, our 
travelling companions, enlarged upon the delight which this event must have 
caused in Italy. I could not help affirming that I knew my countrymen too well 
to suppose that the news would be accepted by them with pleasure; and I assured 
them that in Italy there would be no fireworks, no flags nor decorations, and we 
should find the people cast down under the shock of humiliation and shame. 

Nor had I decieved myself. ... Some ladies who travelled with us from Turin 
to Milan declared emphatically that they would rather a thousand times their 
husbands and sons should risk their lives in ten battles than submit to the national 
disgrace of receiving Venice as a gift from Louis Napoleon. This sentiment was 
so unanimous , that the government was glad to cover the truth of un fait accompli 
with the veil of falsehood, the volonteers were allowed to give battle in the Tyrol, 
and General Medicis, with the regular army, pursued the Austrians to within a 
few miles of Trent and had several encounters with them. 

It forms no part of my plan to enter upon a political disertation. I leave that 
to others who can do it with greater talent and efficiency. To men belongs the 
hard solid, deep study of great national movements; to women the observation, 
no doubt superficial, but at the same time appreciative and sympathetic, of general 
effects, whose fundamental causes may perchance remain unknown to them for 
ever.8 


It is doubtful if this last self-effacing statement can possibly be taken seriously, 
particularly in view that the majority of her published works were actually political 
opinions, but it may perhaps reflect the type of magazine for which she was writing 
in Victorian England, where certain subjects were considered not suitable to be 
dealt with by women.” It does however demonstrate to what degree she 


27. Marie was about 20 and Matilde 18 at this time. The influence of the Countess and her 
travels on her younger daughter was great; Matilde married twice, following her husbands 
who were railway engineers, into the wilds of South America where her five children were 
born, and finally following two of her daughters to Australia where she died in 1935. 


28. “The Italian Wounded,” May 1, 1868, pp. 296-297. 


29. “We alsoknow that women were explicitly discouraged from taking themselves seriously 
as writers. In Victorian times particularly there was much pressure on women to see that 
their literary careers did not interfere with their domestic responsibilities. Likewise it was 
considered unsuitable for women to treat certain subjects in their writing” (R. Sherry, 
Studying Women’s Writing. London: Arnold, 1987, pp. 21-22). 


450 DIANA MODESTO 


attempted to escape her role as a dutiful wife, always drawing back into that role 
just short of commitment. 

After travelling day and night, they arrive at SalO just before dawn, and, too 
tired to sleep, they go outside to watch the sunrise. The description that follows 
is not only beautiful and moving, it underscores the romanticism that the red- 
shirted followers of Garibaldi seem to have inspired most especially in the hearts 
of foreign women travellers in Italy: 


Suddenly the trumpets sounded the reveil, and all the Garibaldians encamped upon 
the borders of the lake at once emerged from the ridges and thickets which had 
hidden them from our sight. They formed themselves into groups here and there. 
Their red shirts, contrasting with the dark green of the surrounding meadows, 
made them look like immense bouquets of wild poppies. All saluted the day-star. 
A great rustling was heard. The bells called to prayer. 

To the right, on the border of the lake - perhaps a mile from Sal6 - appeared 
the cemetery, laid out in a manner similar to those of Egypt, with walls raised 
one above another, and tombs arranged like the berths of a ship. These tombs, 
built out of very white stone, stood out clear and distinct from the thick grass that 
surrounded them. ... What was my suprise to see a Garibaldian soldier make his 
appearance from each tomb! The red shirt of the volonteer, the green verdure 
and the white stone, formed a rich mosaic in the three Italian colours. It was a 
magnificent sight to behold under the brilliant reflection of the rising sun. The 
lake, like an immense opal cup set in a circle of emeralds, was soon surrounded 
by soldiers who came thither to make their toilette, and look at themselves 
reflected on its smooth surface. 

We set off at a quick pace along the road to Rocca d’Anfo to seek Garibaldi. 
... We continued our ascent amidst truly fairy-like natural beauties and beneath 
a splendid sky, accompanied by the shouts, the songs and joyous exclamations 
of the volonteers, whom we saw seated beneath vine-trellised arbours, playing 
at cards or at mora. Some were grouped around a viol-player, some writing letters 
on their knees, many seated on the ground in a circle, listening to the reading of 
an advocate or a literary man, their companion. Some were drinking fresh water 
at a fountain; others were dancing under the shade of large trees. There were also 
solitary promenaders. Many were engaged in sketching the emncampments. 
Everywhere sentinels were to be seen; everywhere bundles of arms. On the right 
in the distance, lay spread out the Lago di Garda, reflecting, like an immense 
mirror, the beauties of its borders.” 


The two years after the publication of these articles were spent, as she had spent 
all her married life, in travelling. From England, in 1869 she travelled to the 
opening of the Suez Canal as a guest of de Lesseps, but a photograph of the period 
shows her to be already ill with tuberculosis. She followed Lorenzo again back 


30. “The Italian Wounded,” May 1, pp. 298-299. 


Moments of the Italian Risorgimento 451 


to Paris, where he joined the Compagnie Humanitaire Italienne, nursing the French 
wounded in the terrible siege of Paris between 1870-1871. The privations of the 
siege, the hunger and the bitter winter with no heating took their toll on her fragile 
health and she died shortly after the surrender, in March 1871, an old woman, a 
few weeks before her fiftieth birthday. 

The last of her political writings, “Les Femmes et les blessés,”*! is dated 
January 1871, but her travels did not end with her death. In 1883 Lorenzo was 
awarded the Legion d’Honneur, and, in recognition of her services to France, her 
body was exhumed and transported as far as the Italian border by the grateful 
French Government and she was finally laid to rest in Pisa, in her beloved Italy. 


University of Sydney 


31. Semprevivi Patri, pp. 52-55. 


PAOLO CHERCHI 


Il Viage a Italia 
di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 


Leandro Fernandez Moratin entro in Italia il 13 settembre del 1793, dopo aver 
attraversato il lago di Lugano fino a Capolago, e da qui passd a Como, 


ciudad pequefia, esta a la orilla del lago de su nombre, rodeada de montafias, con 
reducido orizonte, sus contornos poco alegres; calles estrechas, y en algunas de 
ellas muchas tiendas; cafés con excelentes sorbetes; coches y lacayos, muebles 
desconocidos en el pais que dejo atras. Quando el Emperador Josef 2° dio tras 
de los combentos, se suprimieron en Como catorze de monjas, y han quedado ocho. 

Asi, aqui como en los Estados de Flandes, he oydo muchas quexas 
acerca de la mala distribucidn que se ha dado a los fondos y caudales 
procedentes de estas comunidades reformadas, y lo mal que se ha 
cumplido lo que entonces se prometid: el dinero va derechito a Viena, 
y alli se desaparece, segtin dicen, sin saber cémo; si esto fuera cierto, 
seria cosa indigna; pero ,qué no sera verdad? 

Por toda esta tierra, yen muchas partes de Suiza, particularmente en los pueblos 
situados en los valles htimedos, al pie de los montes, he visto muchas mugeres 
con paperas enormes, ya como panecillos, ya como grandes morcillas; pero entre 
las que padecian esta deformidad las he hallado mui viejas, prueba de que no es 
achaque mortal.(p. 157-158) ! 


Da Como parte per Milano e ammira la vista 


de una hermosa Ilanura mui bien cultivada, con muchos Arboles y grande abundancia 
de moreras. Se hallan de paso algunos pueblos de buena traza, pero sin artes; todos 
es labranza, y la excasez de casas aisladas por el campo me hizo sospechar que 
la mayor parte de él esta repartida en pocas manos de algunos grandes propietarios, 
distribuci6n poco ventajosa a la felicidad publica. Excelente camino hasta Milan, 
con troncos clavados en el suelo, que le sirven de guardaruedas, a un lado y otro. 


(p. 158) 


Arrivato a Milano, si ripropone di parlare 


1. Questa citazione e le seguenti son ricavate dalla recente e ottima edizione di Belén 
Tejerina, Viage a Italia (Madris, Espasa-Calpe, 1988); d’ora in poi se ne indichera soltanto 
la pagina. 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 453 


de lo que vi en ella, remitiéndome en lo que falte a las descripciones que otros 
han hecho, donde podré mi lector contentar en parte su insaciable curiosidad. (pp. 
158-159) 


Questi paragrafi, che descrivono il primo contatto di Moratin con I’Italia, rivelano 
immediatamente che tipo di viaggiatore sara e cid che possiamo attenderci dal suo 
odeporicon. Intanto vediamo che egli ha in mente un lettore: non il corrispondente 
tradizionale (spesso un personaggio fittizio che figura nei diarii di viaggio di stampo 
antico), ma un lettore appartenente ad una cerchia pit vasta, un lettore che sia cosi 
curioso come I’autore e che come lui consulti guide di viaggio e come lui si interessi 
alla cultura pil che al colore locale o all’archeologia. Un lettore del genere s’aspetta 
un’ opera organica dalla quale possa apprendere cose nuove anziché trovarvi in gran 
parte la conferma di cose gia note, imparate sui classici. E un lettore che ha in 
comune con I’autore una formazione e un’ideologia. E cosi, per esempio, apprendera 
che le donne anziane del comasco soffrono di gozzo, che le strade sono scorrevoli, 
che la campagna é ben coltivata, benché il fatto che sia poco popolata sia indice 
di latifondismo, dannoso per ‘la felicita pubblica’. Solo un lettore illuminato come 
l’autore pud capire questo linguaggio, quest’attenzione al benessere pubblico, 
insidiato non solo dal latifondo o da tutto cid che @ malsano, ma anche da un 
governo, come quello austriaco che (vox populi, ma vera!) non ridistribuisce 
equamente i beni ecclesiastici confiscati. Tali osservazioni non sorprendono chi 
conosce Leandro Fern4ndez Moratin; e poiché egli é poco noto ai lettori italiani, 
sara utile darne almeno un rapido profilo. 


Moratin nacque nel 1760, un anno dopo I’ascesa al trono di Carlo III, il re 
riformatore che diede alla Spagna un nuovo volto, inserendola nel concerto delle 
nazioni europee. Il movimento riformista in senso che possiamo definire 
settecentesco, era cominciato con l’avvento dei Borboni: momenti cruciali per la 
cultura furono la fondazione dell’ Academia Espafiola (1726), l’apparizione del primo 
volume del Teatro critico di Feijoo (1726), la Poética di Luzan (1737) e la 
fondazione della rivista Diario de literatos (1737), momenti di un lento ma deciso 
risveglio dal letargo in cui la cultura e in genere la civilta spagnola era caduta dopo 
il glorioso ‘siglo de oro’. Ma fu sotto il regno di Carlo III che quelle tendenze 
riformatrici attinsero una forza tale da spazzar via lo spirito eroico messianico che 
aveva caratterizzato la cultura spagnola, e riusci a conquistare il rispetto dell’Europa 
che fino ad allora vedeva la Spagna come la terra dell’ Inquisizione, dell’incultura 
e della pit: feroce politica coloniale. La ‘ilustracién’ spagnola fu, secondo la 
definizione di Jean Sarrailh,? ‘una crociata di buona volonta’, promossa da un 
gruppo di aristocratici illuminati e da una corte disposta a ‘fare tutto per il popolo, 


2. Cfr. Jean Serrailh, L’Espagne éclairée de la seconde moitié du XVIIF siécle (Parigi, 
Klincksieck 1954). 


454 PAOLO CHERCHI 


ma niente con il popolo’ (adottando, cioé, un criterio di dirigismo politico). Tale 
crociata mirava a risanare l’economia del paese, a sfruttare in modo pit razionale 
la terra secondo una linea vagamente fisiocratica (si sara notato che Moratin nel 
passo riportato all’inizio apprezza la ‘coltivazione dei campi’, anziché le ‘bellezze 
naturali’ come avrebbe fatto un esponente della cultura arcadico-bucolica del primo 
°700), promuovendo lo studio, intensificando gli scambi culturali e commerciali 
con i paesi stranierl. Tuttavia gli ‘ilustrados’ spagnoli non fecero proprie le tesi 
radicali degli illuministi transpirenaici: rimasero sempre monarchici, cattolici e 
patrioti, anche se aperti alla critica della loro patria. Moratin fu un figlio di questa 
‘jlustraci6n’ moderata, anzi egli ne fu pars magna, contribuendo con i suoi scritti 
a svecchiare la cultura spagnola e a darle un orientamento neoclassicista. 

Sotto molti aspetti Moratin fu un privilegiato*. Lo fu almeno nel senso che 
gia il padre, Nicolas Fern4ndez de Moratin, pregevole poeta di gusto arcadico e 
uomo di corte, era uno dei maggiori propugnatori di una poesia arcadico-classicista, 
avversa al lussureggiare metaforico barocco. Educato in quest’ambiente dove facili 
erano 1 contatti con letterati e politici, e avviato alla professione del gioelliere, 
Leandro esordi nel 1779 (aveva appena 19 anni), vincendo un certame letterario 
bandito dall’ Academia Espafiola, presentando un ‘romance’ di tema storico, La toma 
de Granada por los Reyes Catélicos don Fernando y dofia Isabel. Nel 1786 fece 
parte di una missione diplomatica a Parigi come segretario del conte Cabarris. 
A Parigi si fermo per un un anno e compose il suo primo lavoro teatrale, El viejo 
y la nifiae |e autorita ecclesiastiche ne impedirono la rappresentazione. Nel 1789 
pubblico una satira letteraria contro i pedanti, La derrota de los pedantes, che ebbe 
un notevole successo e gli meritO una prebenda ecclesiastica. Nel 1790, per 
intervento del potente ministro Godoy, la commedia El viejo y la nifia sali sulle 
scene con un successo strepitoso che fruttd all’autore un’altra prebenda. Nel 1792 
pubblicd La comedia nueva che gli fece avere una pensione grazie alla quale l’anno 
successivo poté partire per un lungo viaggio alla volta dell’ Inghilterra e dell’ Italia, 
dove rimase per tre anni. Nel 1797 rientrd a Madrid ed ebbe un posto a corte come 
‘secretario de la interpretacién de lenguas’, una vera sine cura che gli consentiva 
di vivere con agio e in contatto con il mondo del potere. Dopo I’invasione 
napoleonica della Spagna, Moratin collabord con i nuovi regnanti e Giuseppe 
Buonaparte lo nomin6o direttore della Biblioteca Real, l’attuale Biblioteca Nacional. 
Ma la caduta di Napoleone e il ritorno di Ferdinando VII mise in difficolta i 
collaboratori del regime caduto, e Moratin fu costretto alla fuga. Visse prima a 
Barcellona in attesa di un condono, ma poi ando in esilio prima in Francia poi in 
Italia quindi nuovamente in Francia dove passo gli ultimi anni fino alla morte, 


3. La bibliografia su Moratin é alquanto nutrita, come si pud sospettare per un autore della 
sua taglia. In questa sede sarebbe superfluo anche un tentativo di dare una bibliografia 
essenziale: bastera rimandare, almeno per quel che riguarda il Viage, all’introduzione della 
Tejerina. 


Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 455 


avvenuta a Parigi nel 1828. L’esilio non offuscd la sua fama in Spagna, anzi nel 
1821 fu eletto all’ Academia espafiola, anche se cid non lo persuase a rientrare in 
patria. 

La fama di Moratin si deve soprattutto alle sue commedie che ebbero una 
funzione simile a quella avuta dalle commedie goldoniane in Italia. Goldoni riformd 
il teatro della commedia dell’arte; Moratin riform6 un teatro baroccheggiante, pieno 
di inverosimilitudini che satirizza ne La comedia nueva. Noné un merito da poco: 
il teatro, dopo tutto, era il grande ‘mass media’ del tempo, ed era un strumento 
indispensabile per qualsiasi campagna ideologica. Unteatro ‘regolare’ era un’arma 
efficacissima nella lotta contro la mentalita barocca. 

Il Viage a Italia non fu mai pubblicato da Moratin. Rimase fra le sue carte 
inedite lasciate all’amico Manuel Silvela, e solo nel 1867 furono pubblicate a Madrid 
con il titolo generale di Obras pdéstumas, raccolte in tre volumi della prestigiosa 
collana Biblioteca de Autores Espafioles del Rivadeneyra. L’edizione, curata dal 
drammaturgo e critico Eugenio Hartzenbusch, era basata sul ms. 5890 della 
Biblioteca Nacional di Madrid composto di nove quaderni autografi. L’editore 
censura il testo, sopprimendo interi passi e parole che si riferiscono per lo pit al 
mondo ecclesiastico o alla situazione politica italiana; quindi quest’edizione non 
risponde pit ai criteri moderni. Per fortuna disponiamo di un’edizione critica 
recentissima, con ottimo commento, curata da Belén Tejerina la quale oltre al ms. 
5890 utilizza altri due apografi incompleti, grazie ai quali é possibile colmare qualche 
lacuna dell’originale quando questo sia di difficile lettura per usura del tempo. 

Il Viage a Italia di Moratin rientra nel genere del “viaggio in Italia” tipico del 
Settecento. Ma la tradizione spagnola, nonostante |’intensificarsi delle relazioni 
fra i due paesi*, era povera tanto che si pud ridurre soltanto a due libri, quello 
di Antonio Ponz, Viage fuera de Espafia (in 2 voll., 1785), e le Cartas familiares 
del Abate Juan Andrés a su hermano don Carlos Andrés, dandole noticias del viaje 
que hizo a varias ciudades de Italia en el ato 1785 (Madrid, in 5 voll., 1786-1793). 
Moratin aveva con sé la prima di queste opere, mentre l’altra poté vederla solo 
a Roma, come egli stesso ci dice, e ne corregge alcuni errori (pp. 575-579). La 
guida che egli seguiva con maggior attenzione era quella di La Lande, i sette volumi 
del Voyage d’un francois en Italie fait dans les années 1765-1766 (Ginevra, 1790). 
Mail Viage di Moratin non poteva essere né quello in forma epistolare dello storico 
dell’arte Antonio Ponz, impegnato in un costante esame comparativo fra 1 paesi 
visti e la Spagna, né quello del gesuita Juan Andrés, dedicato quasi esclusivamente 
a fatti culturali e a dati storico-artistici. Gli interessi di Moratin lo portavano a 
vedere certe cose e a dare agli spagnoli un ragguaglio originale e personalissimo 


4. Sull’argomento é sempre utile, sia pure parzialmente, Vittorio Cian, Italia e Spagna 
nel secolo XVIII. Giovambattista Conti e la Spagna nella seconda meta del Settecento (Torino, 
Lattes, 1896.). 


456 PAOLO CHERCHI 


del suo viaggio in Italia. 


Riprendiamo il discorso dove Il’avevamo lasciato, alle porte di Milano. Che 
cosa in particolare interessa a Moratin che non sia necessariamente nelle guide? 
Non puo certamente ignorare il Duomo, e ne ammira la fabbrica, |’uso del marmo 
(anche se ricorda la frase di Giuseppe II per il quale era una pazzia convertire l’oro 
inmarmo), le statue, gli altari; ma poi conchiude chiedendosi se sia stata una pazzia 
l’aver speso per secoli e secoli dei veri tesori, e decide di attenersi a quello che 
i suoi lettori possano pensarne. Evidentemente il concetto di ‘utilita’ era molto 
radicato in quest’uomo del ’700. Egli ricorda il palazzo dell’ Arciduca, ‘con 
decoracion sencilla y elegante’ p. 160); l’Ospedale Maggiore; nota le armi del Re 
di Spagna e trascrive l’iscrizione in castigliano che si trova sull’arco della porta 
del Carcere; la passeggiata dalla Porta Orientale; il giardino pubblico e quello del 
Conte Dugnani; osserva le carrozze e le trova identiche a quelle che circolano a 
Madrid, ma nota che i lacché sono molto pit numerosi e vestiti lussuosamente; 
e vede anche 


cinco 0 seis haraganes empleados en arrastrar un podrido. Este es el uso que se 
haze de los hombres, como si el género humano abundase en demasia, como si 
no hubiera provincias desiertas, como si no faltasen manos al arado, al remo y 
al buril.(p. 162) 


che sembrerebbe un’osservazione degna di Parini. E infatti vediamo apparire, quasi 
a continuazione, l’autore del Giorno. Moratin va a visitare il Collegio Braidense, 
e nota la ‘magnificencia jesuitica’ dei cortili e degli appartamenti dei professori, 
il giardino botanico, l’osservatorio con eccellenti strumenti ‘de Paris y Londres’, 
la scuola di disegno e la biblioteca. Su quest’ultima si sofferma alquanto dicendo 
qualcosa dei fondi e osserva che si tratta di una biblioteca di fondazione recente 
“y atin no estan bien arreglados los indices” (p. 163) per mancanza di soldi, e nota 
anche che é povera di libri moderni. A Brera 


Fui a visitar al abate Parini, profesor de Bellas Letras en este Colegio, que ha 
adquirido reputacién por sus poesias, hombre de mas de cincuenta afios, alto, 
estropeado de piernas, gesto avinagrado; le sorprendi6 el motivo de mi visita. Los 
espanoles no suelen acostumbrar a dar molestia con su presencia a los hombres 
de mérito que hallan al paso: gpara qué?, gno basta visitar al banquero? (p. 
163-164) 


Quindi continua descrivendo la Biblioteca Ambrosiana e le varie collezioni d’ arte 
che contiene. Annota quel che gli interessa della chiesa di San Marco, di S. Fedele 
e altre, limitando ogni descrizione all’essenziale, raccolto in due o tre righe. Pit 
dettagliata, invece, é la descrizione della Scala che allora si chiamava Teatro Nuovo 
(era stato costruito negli anni 1776-1778). Moratin ne descrive lo spazio, 1 palchi 
col relativo servizio — una specie di gabinetto attrezzato di cucina dove i servi 
preparano rinfreschi e piatti caldi, poiché i signori mangiano, bevono e giocano 


Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 457 


a carte durante lo spettacolo —, il proscenio — dove si trova un orologio, “mueble 
mui inc6modo para los poetas libertinos que quieran cefiirse a la unidad del tiempo” 
—, la scena ampia ma non tanto come sembra al La Lande, e il pubblico che chiede 
il bis con l’applauso (non gia come gli inglesi che lo chiedono “a gritos y bramidos”, 
p. 168). Dopo la visita ad alcune altre chiese e ad alcuni pezzi celebri (“La 
coronazione delle spine” di Tiziano; “L’ultima cena” di Leonardo, ecc.), Moratin 
lascia Milano che nel complesso gli sembra “mui buena ciudad, hay bastantes 
fabricas, talleres, industria, riqueza, abundancia de comestibles, buenos edificios, 
curiosedades y diversiones” (pp. 169-170). 


Ci siamo soffermati sulla visita a Milano perché le cose che vi osserva sono, 
probabilmente indice di cid che Moratin andra cercando nelle altre citta italiane. 
Come abbiamo detto, Moratin si ferm6 in Italia per tre anni, e visitd le citta pit 
importanti che si trovano tra Torino e Venezia, fra Milano e Napoli. I suoi viaggi 
lo portano anche a vedere piccoli centri, cittadine e villaggi che vengono notati se 
qualche dato importante o qualche evento lo richieda. I luoghi su cui si sofferma 
sono naturalmente i grandi centri culturali - Bologna, Firenze, Roma, Napoli - e 
li visita pid volte: a Bologna, per esempio, passa un paio di settimane fra la fine 
di settembre e i primi d’ottobre del 1793, un’altra settimana nel maggio e una 
quindicina di giorni nel settembre dell’anno successivo, e cosi vari altri periodi degli 
anni seguenti (anche perché Bologna era un punto di passaggio obbligato); a Roma 
ea Napoli si fermo varie volte per mesi interi. Ora, la visita a Milano mette a fuoco 
alcuni temi che sembrano coincidere con gli interessi pid vivi del nostro viaggiatore, 
perché son temi ricorrenti nelle pagine del suo odeporicon, come se ogni visita 
seguisse un metodico programma di lavoro. A parte le ricorrenti osservazioni di 
minor rilievo (urbanistica, paesaggio, fondi stradali, ecc.), il Viage registra con 
abbondanza dati relativi all’arte e al teatro, e, in misura minore ma notevole, alle 
biblioteche, ai giardini e agli aspetti salienti della societa, sia dal punto di vista 
politico sia da quello del costume. 

L’arte era, tradizionalmente, il motivo principale dei viaggi in Italia, e lo fu 
ancor di pid dopo i recenti scavi archeologici di Pompei ed Ercolano. Gli interessi 
moratiniani non sono orientati verso il mondo classico, come la tradizione voleva, 
bensi su quello rinascimentale e su quello contemporaneo neoclassico. Tuttavia 
il suo gusto dipende chiaramente dall’insegnamento di un grande archeologo 
contemporaneo, cioé Johann Joachim Winkelmann, le cui idee sull’arte antica e 
su un nuovo concetto di imitazione erano state diffuse in Spagna da Rafaello Mengs 
durante la sua permanenza alla corte di Carlo III (1761-1777), e poi durante il 
periodo romano in cui esercitd una profonda influenza sulla scuola di disegno di 
Roma, frequentata da molti artisti spagnoli, alcuni dei quali erano o diventarono 
amici di Moratin. II tema dell’arte nel Viage é tanto ricco per la quantita di cose 
registrate che non é possibile parlarne in questa sede. Tuttavia si pud dire che il 
principio che ispira i giudizi é sostanzialmente quello neoclassico, come dimostrera 


458 PAOLO CHERCHI 


il seguente passo in cui l’autore descrive la Chiesa di San Pietro: 


Lo que me pareci6é mas digno de admiraci6n entre las excelentes obras de aquella 
iglesia son los mosaicos en los altares y las ciipulas, el baxo relieve de Algardi, 
que representa a Atila, a quien San Pedro y San Pablo defienden la entrada de 
Roma, figuras gigantescas, excelente execucién digna de aquel grande artifice; 
la Catedra de San Pedro sostenida por quatro doctores de la Iglesia, enorme 
maquina de bronce, descorregida, pero de un gran efecto, pudiéndose decir otro 
tanto del enorme dosel o baldaquin del altar mayor, todo del mismo metal, y una 
y otra obra del incorrecto y admirable Bernini. Pero lo que, a mi entender, es 
superior a todas aunque se cuente entre ellas el célebre grupo de marmol de la 
Virgen con su Hijo difunto, hecho por Miguel Angel, donde entre cosa mui buenas 
se hallan grandes defectos, es el sepulcro de Clemente 13 executado por Antonio 
Canova, escultor veneciano, el primero de Italia, y por consecuencia, de Europa. 
La idea no tiene mérito particular, pareciendose a las de todos los demas sepulcros 
de aquella Iglesia, que por lo regular consiste en una urna sobre un Zocalo, la figura 
del Pontifice encima, y a los lados dos estatuas aleg6ricas que acompafnian; en ésta 
el Papa esta representado de rodillas haciendo oracién, en actitud tan expresiva, 
con tal verdad y sencillez, ya en el rostro, ya en la postura de las manos, ya en 
la distribucién de pliegues de la vestidura, que si de repente se moviese, no se 
admiraria el movimiento. A un lado de la urna sepulcral esta la Religi6n, al otro 
un genio alado en acto de dolor; una y otra figura son excelentes, pero como la 
Ultima esta casi desnuda, se admira mas en ella la inteligencia del artifice, basta 
acostumbrar los ojos a las bellas formas del Apolo de Belvedere, del Antinoo y 
otras estatuas, la mds célebres de la antigiiedad en esta clase di naturaleza juvenil, 
para reconocer en el genio mencionado la mas idéntica semejanza. [...] Sobre el 
zocalo hay dos leones de gran tamafio en guarda del sepulcro; el uno parece que 
duerme, pero al acercarse se le ven los ojos entreabiertos; el otro parece que acaba 
de alzar la cabeza habiendo sentido ruido de gente, mira con ojos terribles, y es 
de temer que, si uno da un paso mas, se levante. Hay tal maestria en la actitud, 
en la expresi6n de estos animales, tal verdad y ligereza de cincel, que noes posible 
mirarlos sin temor; no son mazacotes ni tienen pelucas blondas, ni estan desollados 
como los que tiran el carro de Cibeles, son dos leones de los mas espantosos del 
Africa, estan vivos y estan guardando el sepulcro de Clemente 13, para que nadie 
se acerque a profanar tan sagradas cenizas. (pp. 334-336) 


Ogni lettore riconoscera il linguaggio di quella cultura neoclassica che era, si, 
disposta ad ammettere una grande forza nelle opere di un Bernini o di un 
Michelangelo (esponenti massimi della cultura manierista e barocca), ma nello stesso 
tempo ne condannava certi errori, certe irregolarita che impedivano la realizzazione 
di quella mimesi che é indispensabile per la perfezione dell’arte. E in quell’ambiente 
che imitava il mondo classico, Canova era considerato lo scultore perfetto. I principi 
di armonia, di semplicita sublime, di razionalita, e quindi una decisa opposizione 
all’arte barocca, ispirano tutti i giudizi che Moratin formula sulle opere delle belle 
arti ricordate nel Viage. 

Gli stessi principi valgono sul piano letterario. Se ne vuole una conferma? Basta 





Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 459 


ricordare frasi come questa: “Bernini. Este artifice, como todos los grandes 
corruptores de las artes, tenfa un talento extraordinario, y en fuerza de él produxo 
obras Ilenas de belleza y de extravios, lo mismo hizieron Marini, Gongora, y 
Calder6n” (pp. 455-456); oppure le seguenti frasi, espresse a conclusione della 
rassegna delle Loggie di Raffaello: “El que tienen estas obras es tan grande, que 
se consideran como lo mds excelente en materia de pintura; tienen defectos, y a 
pesar de ellos, no hay artifice que no las reconozca como el ultimo esfuerzo del 
talento humano; asi como los descuidos de Homero y los de Cervantes; justifican 
la critica, pero las obras en que se hallan no se obscurecen con tales sombras” (p. 
339), dove si riconosce il principio oraziano “verum ubi plura nitent in carmine 
non ego paucis / offendar maculis” (Ars poetica, 351-352), e l’assunzione di 
Cervantes al canone dei sommi°. Ma il genere letterario che di cui Moratin si occupa 
sistematicamente e, direi, esclusivamente, é, per ragioni owvie, il teatro. Il Viage 
& pieno di dati sul teatro italiano di quegli anni, proprio degli anni in cui Moratin 
viveva in Italia, ché uno dei suoi piaceri era andare al teatro ogni volta che ne avesse 
la possibilita. Cosi in ogni citta, grande o piccola, egli visitava i teatri e annotava 
nei suoi taccuini ogni spettacolo al quale assisteva. Abbiamo visto che a Milano 
egli visita La Scala, ma non parla di alcuna rappresentazione. Ma in una visita 
successiva ritorna al teatro e aggiunge solo un particolare per quel che riguarda 
il teatro vero e proprio (i palchi hanno delle tendine mobili che permettono agli 
spettatori di divertirsi anche se lo spettacolo é cattivo); e ci da invece la lista degli 
spettacoli presentati in quella stagione (maggio del 1795) dalla compagnia di Antonio 
Goldoni: 


Didone abbandonata. Es |a 6pera de Metastasio, sin musica. Aristide. Comedia 
nueva, mui mala. II servo di due padroni, comedia de Goldoni. Tancredo. Tragedia 
de Voltaire, traducida por Paradisi. Mal executada. Il medico per forza. Comedia, 
traduccion del Médecin malgré lui. Gli amori di Zelinda e Lindoro. Comedia mui 
mala. Gli amori di Adelaide e Cominge. Comedia. Un amor furioso de 24 horas, 
personages y episodios intitiles, sin atadero ni verosimilitud. Adelaide maritata. 
Comedia. Segunda parte de la anterior, con los mismos defectos; pero tiene scenas 
interesantes. Theresa vedova. Comedia. Embrollo inconexo, sin pies ni cabeza. 
Le gloriose gesta di ... copiaré a la letra el cartel: “Le gloriose gesta di Ercole, 
figlio di Giove e di Alcmene, vincitore del Nemeo Leone, delle furie, del Cerbero” 
[ ... € continua per una mezza pagina, riportando quanto il cartellone annuncia: 
un’incredibile paccotiglia mitologica!]. (pp. 548-549) 


Liste di questo genere appaiono spesso nel Viage, a volte pit lunghe e pit nutrite, 


5. L’accostamento Omero-Cervantes rivela la lettura del saggio di Vicente de los Rios 
premesso all’ed. del Don Quijote pubblicata dall’Academia Espafiola a Madrid nel 1780: 
é un saggio fondamentale che offre un’interpretazione neoclassica dell’opera cervantina e 
ne conferma in modo definitivo lo statuto di capolavoro (cfr. il mio Capitoli di critica 
cervantina [1605-1789]. Roma, Bulzoni, 1977, pp. 127 sgg.). 


460 PAOLO CHERCHI 


con qualche appunto della trama, o sulla recitazione e sul pubblico. Qualche volta 
Moratin trascrive il cartellone, e sembra che cid avvenga quando si tratta di cosa 
tanto strampalata da esser degna di ricordo. Altre volte si impegna in giudizi pid 
elaborati che ci lascino intravvedere i criteri classicisti che li ispirano. Ma il fatto 
stesso che egli registri ogni lavoro visto (incluso opere e balletti), offrira allo 
specialista materiali interessantissimi, dandogli impressioni di un altro grande 
specialista, notizie su intere stagioni, su compagnie, su attori, su tanti autori oggi 
completamente dimenticati. E Moratin non si limitd a frequentare i migliori teatri 
di Bologna, di Napoli, di Roma e di tante altre citta, ma visitd anche teatri di infimo 
rango, per esempio quello di Roma dove si rappresentava I/ carro o Contrasto o 
la Giudiata, spettacolo descritto con cura perché degno dei peggiori epiteti, e che 
comunque diverti il nostro spettatore perché, ci dice, gli diede il privilegio d’aver 
assistito allo spettacolo peggiore di tutta l’Europa (pp. 610-612). 

Solo una volta Moratin da un giudizio generale sul teatro italiano, dopo aver 
vissuto per oltre un anno in Italia e dopo aver visto centinaia di rappresentazioni. 
Ci riferiamo alle pagine che formano una sorta di appendice alla rassegna (con dati 
e giudizi pit elaborati del solito) di oltre una trentina di lavori presentati durante 
Ja stagione autunno-inverno del 1794-1795 a Venezia. Moratin comincia col rilevare 
una certa uniformita di gusto fra le varie citta italiane; anche la lingua non costituisce 
un impedimento perché le compagnie, nonostante si considerino locali o regionali, 
viaggiano per tutta la penisola. Premette, inoltre, che dara delle notizie essenziali 
ma esatte, e che il suo giudizio non sara da storico del teatro (non parlera del teatro 
dei secoli passati), e non seguira altra autorita se non la propria ragione, che é di 
solito la guida pit sicura, anche se corre qualche rischio di parzialita. Le opere 
che si rappresentano si possono dividere in tre classi: tragedie, commedie e farse 
fra le quali Moratin include anche le ‘recite a soggetto’, cioé la commedia dell’arte, 
che “por la fabula, los personages, las costumbres y el estilo no pertenecen a la 
buena comedia” (p. 438). Nel genere tragico gli italiani son quelli che dopo i 
francesi (i migliori d’Europa) I’hanno coltivato ‘con més acierto’ (p. 438) - dato 
che lusinga alquanto se si pensa che proprio in quegli anni Moratin attendeva alla 
traduzione dell’ Hamlet di Shakespeare e conosceva il teatro contemporaneo inglese, 

Fra i contemporanei egli ricorda Monti, Bettinelli, Pepoli e Alfieri, ma ne 
potrebbe citare tanti altri che compongono secondo regole e che pertanto contengono 
sempre delle bellezze “mucha accié6n, situaciones interesantes, sentencia, diccién 
poética, pompa y aparato” (p. 439). In genere, perd, sono deboli per mancanza 
di economia nella fabula, per il ruolo troppo forte del protagonista maggiore, per 
la dispositio, insomma, per quella mancanza di “sobriedad, aquella progresi6n, de 
interés, aquella unidad de impulso dirigida a un solo obgeto, aquella maestria en 
descubrir los afectos del corazén humano, segun el cardcter y las situaciones” (ivi). 
Questi giudizi non valgono per 1’ Alfieri: 


Debo de advertir que las tragedias de Alfieri no deben sujetarse a estas observacio- 
nes, hechas, en general, sobre las otras; este autor ha seguido un rumbo tan 





Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 461 


diferente de los demas, que noes posible confundirle conellos. Sus obras merecen 
particular examen, pero por no dexarlas en silencio, diré solamente que este autor 
se ha propuesto despojar a la tragedia de todo lo que no es absolutamente necesario, 
ha querido simplificarla, imitando mas el gusto griego que el moderno de Europa, 
poco enredo en la fabula, poco aparato, pocos adornos; ha desechado los personages 
inttiles, y disgustado de los confidentes que en la mayor parte de las tragedias 
sirven s6lo de ofr lo que el héroe les dice, sin que, por otra parte, sean necesarios 
al progreso o desenlaze, los ha desterrado de la scena. Reducidas sus piezas a tan 
corto numero de personas, carecen de variedad y movimiento; el didlogo, por 
consiguiente, es cansado y enojoso y se oye hablar de conjuraciones, tiranias, 
trastornos de imperios en un palacio desierto y estos grandes acaecimientos se 
verifican entre cinco o seis personas. Su estilo ha sido mui censurado, duro y 
g6tico; por lo demas, a pesar de todos estos defectos, merece este autor el primer 
lugar entre los modernos; pinta las pasiones con admirable inteligencia, los 
caracteres con toda la verdad y robustez imaginables, y en sus obras se ven 
esparcidas tan grandes ideas, maximas tan sublimes, ya de moral, ya de politica, 
que en gran parte le hacen acrehedor al mayor elogio por la singularidad de su 
talento. (pp. 439-440) 


Probabilmente é il primo giudizio globale sull’opera tragica alfieriana, e non sembra 
che in sostanza sia mai stato confutato. Ugualmente preciso é il giudizio, pit rapido, 
su Goldoni, il quale “después de haber purgado el Theatro de la mayor parte de 
las monstruosidades que hall6é en él, produxo, entre muchas obras de inferior mérito, 
algunas tan bien escritas, que hasta ahora nadie ha logrado superarlas” (p. 441). 

Le biblioteche, abbiamo detto, costituiscono uno degli interessi di Moratin. 
Non sono interessi @ la Mabillon né di qualsiasi altro pur modesto erudito che 
percorreva I’Italia alla ricerca di manoscritti. E piuttosto l’interesse di chi vede 
la biblioteca come un luogo di ricerca e non solo come un luogo di conservazione 
di un partrimonio librario. Due volte parla della Vaticana, ed entrambe le volte 
lamenta |’inaccesibilita dei suoi fondi; parlando della Biblioteca di S. Ambrogio 
a Genova nota che é aperta tutti i giorni e per tutto il giorno e buona parte della 
notte, ma la collocazione dei libri @ caotica; visitando la Laurenziana nota la 
disposizione degli scaffali e la comodita per il pubblico di poter consultare in ogni 
scaffale un catalogo di cid che contiene; visitando 1’ Ambrosiana osserva che i libri 
negli scaffali son sistemati secondo il formato, per cui é impossibile formarsi un’idea 
“del merito o abundancia de las obras que contiene” (p. 164); visitando La Sapienza 
a Roma fa una lista di libri spagnoli che vi si trovano: forse un prelievo destinato 
a Suscitare osservazioni sulla fortuna della letteratura spagnola in Italia. Considera- 
zioni pratiche portano alla seguente osservazione fatta al visitare la biblioteca Palatina 
di Parma: 


los indices no estan concluidos todavia; el méthodo de ellos es sumamente sencillo 
y comodo. Se arreglan los apellidos de los autores con el mismo orden que se usa 
en un diccionario hist6rico, empezando desde Aa y concluyendo con Za, en unos 
naipes se escribe el apellido, y a continuaci6n el titulo de la obra, el nimero de 


462 PAOLO CHERCHI 


tomos, el lugar de la impresién y el estante en que se hallara. Estos naypes, 
repartidos en cortas proporciones, se colocan en caxitas separadas, donde esta 
escrito por la parte exterior las letras que contienen; por exemplo: B, Baz; el 
siguiente Bee, Bon, y estos caxoncillos ocupan un estante, donde se ve desde luego 
en qué parte esta el autor que se busca, como los titulos estan separados en los 
naypes, se va aumentando el indice sin la necesidad de borrar, ni afiadir, ni 
confundirle con llamadas, que al cabo del tiempo obligarian a renovarle para 
poderle entender, sin que esto obste a que en los estantes estén colocadas las obras 
por el orden de las materias. (pp. 177-178) 


Il senso di queste osservazioni risulta chiaro se si pensa che al tempo di Moratin 
il catalogo per schede era poco diffuso, e 1 metodi prevalenti di catalogazione su 
registri rendevano faticosissima la ricerca (non vera la notizia che Moratin introdusse 
il catalogo a schede presso la Biblioteca Reai durante il suo incarico di direttore). 
Gli ‘ilustrados’ consideravano le biblioteche pubbliche come uno strumento 
fondamentale nella lotta contro la ‘vecchia Spagna’. 

Anche 1 giardini sono un luogo obbligato delle visite di Moratin, e sembra che 
faccian tutt’uno con i suoi interessi per l’urbanistica in generale, probabilmente 
tenuti vivi dal rinnovamento urbanistico che Madrid subi nel ’700. Li descrive 
come parte della citta, come almeno dovrebbero essere: razionalmente tracciati, 
non severi, adorni di statue e fontane e aperti al pubblico. Sembra che il modello 
ideale di giardino, pubblico o privato, sia per Moratin quello francese creato da 
Le Notre per Versailles e imitato un po’ in tutta 1’ Europa. 

Un tema non obbligato ma ricorrente é la visita o la menzione dei ghetti ebraici, 
che erano presenti nelle maggiori citta italiane, eccetto nel Regno Napoletano da 
dove gli ebrei erano stati espulsi nel 1492, come da tutti i paesi dominati dalla 
Spagna. Di solito le menzioni degli ebrei sono tanto dispregiative quanto potevano 
esserlo: usurai, loschi, puzzolenti, imbroglioni, fisicamente brutti, sono gli epiteti 
pit gentili del repertorio moratiniano, dove mancano del tutto le tradizionali accuse 
religiose. Tuttavia c’é una descrizione del ghetto di Roma che merita qualche 
considerazione: 


Habiendo hablado de la poca limpieza de las calles de Roma, debe inferirse, por 
consecuencia, que el barrio de los judios sera un mulador asqueroso y pestifero, 
porque al descuido general del Gobierno se afiade la suciedad y sordidez que 
particularmente caracteriza al pueblo de Dios. Estos infelizes que pasan de cuatro 
mil entre chicos y grandes (nimero que no se incluye en la poblacién de Roma), 
viven en un barrio que se cierra de noche en malas habitaciones, amontonados 
unos sobre otros, por la estrechez del sitio. Aquel es el recojedero de los trapajos 
mas sucios, y aquella la fabrica donde las reliquias fétidas de los basureros se 
combierten en lienzos, pafios, sedas y vestidos, que al quererlos usar se deshazen 
en 4tomos invisibles. Esta es su principal industria, y éste su comercio; su 
aplicaci6n, su actividad, sonadmirables; pagan crecidos tributos, viven oprimidos 
y despreciados; se sustentan en fuerza de lo que mienten y lo que engafian, pero 
el gobierno no les permite otros medios de prosperar. Han solicitado que se les 








Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 463 


venda un terreno dentro de Roma, para edificar en él un barrio mas sano y de 
una extensién proporcionada a su numero, y no lo han podido conseguir, el 
populacho los detesta, los escarneze, y les compra sus pérfidas mercancias; no 
hay conmocién popular que no amenaze su destruccidn. Quando se alboroté la 
plebe de Roma, quatro afios ha, y comitid con superior impulso el execrable 
asesinato de Basville, la turba feroz de los trasteverinos iba ya de mano armada 
a quemar y saquear el barrio de los judios, como si hubiese alguna conexi6n entre 
la supersticiOn judaica y la constitucién francesa, entre el Talmud y los Derechos 
del Hombre, pero esto prueba a qué estado de opresién y envilecimiento estan 
reducidos. En frente de una de sus puertas hay una iglesia, en cuya fachada estan 
pintado un Cristo, con dos inscripciones al pie, una en latin y otra en hebreo, para 
que la entiendan mejor, sacada del capitulo 65 de Isaias; la latina dice asi: “Expandi 
manus meas tota die ad populum incredulum qui graditur in via non bona post 
cogitationes suas. Populus qui ad iracundiam provocat me ante faciem meam 
semper”. (pp. 601-602) 


Il passo @ notevole per l’ambivalenza che rivela. Da una parte sopravvive una 
viscerale antipatia atavica (tra l’altro, pid difficile da capire, visto che da secoli 
in Spagna nonc’erano ebrei); dall’altra considerazioni sociali e politiche sembrano 
imputare la Chiesa e la plebe per l’esistenza del ghetto e della situazione degradante 
in cui vive chi vi abita. Tale ambivalenza riflette in generale |’atteggiamento della 
civilta illuministica nei riguardi degli ebrei: concesse loro i diritti civili, ma fece 
ben poco per cancellare l’immagine tradizionale dell’ebreo come ‘altro’ e spregevole. 


Ci si potrebbe dilungare su tanti altri aspetti del Viage — per esempio, la 
politica, filone normale di considerazioni dato l’impegno civico e politico di Moratin; 
oppure la curiosita linguistica che lo porta a trascrivere dei testi in piemontese o 
bolognese 0 a tentare una trascrizione fonetica della gorgia toscana -; ma lo spazio 
ce loimpedisce. Tuttavia non si puo fare a meno di ricordare che il Viage é l’opera 
di uno scrittore di alto livello, un’ opera di piacevolissima lettura. La critica sociale 
o semplicemente moralistica produce quasi sempre bozzetti degni indimenticabili, 
come quello del signor Luigi, ruffiano napoletano, che da vita a quello che altrimenti 
sarebbe un piccolo sermone, un po’ declamato ed enfatico: 


;Qué infames, qué puercos, qué despreciables, qué embusteros y malvados son 
los alcahuetes! jC6émo corren toda la ciudad de un lado al otro, como se introducen 
en los cafés, en las tiendas, en las casas di juego, cOmo se insinuan con los 
forasteros, cOmo los espian y salen al encuentro al acabarse los espectaculos, 
ofreciéndoles sus servicios, proponiéndoles hermosuras venales de todos géneros, 
de todas edades, de todos precios! Ellos son los azuzuradores del vicio, los que 
propagan la corrupcién de las cotrumbres, los que facilitan la infidelidad del 
thdlamo, los depositarios de tanta debilidad humana, de tanto resbal6n femenil; 
protegidos de las ilustres damas que procuran un desahogo a su temperamento, 
mal satisfechas de un esposo anciano, 0 distrahido en otra parte, o debilitado por 
los desordenes de las modesta viudas, que necesitan en la austeridad de su retiro 


464 PAOLO CHERCHI 


un suplemento de aquella felicidad que interrumpié la muerte; de las doncellas 
timidas que rezuman de apetito, y no pueden sufrir en paz las dilaciones de un 
padre descuidado. Alcahuetes hay para todas, no hay necesidad que ellos socorran, 
ni estorbo que no faciliten. Las putas se sirven de ellos como los comerciantes 
de los corredores: los miman, los regalan, y ellos por su parte no sélo las procuran 
parroquianos sino que las dispensan todo favor y proteccién. Si se ofrece buscar 
dinero para salir de un apuro, pagar el casero, acallar a los alguaciles, alajar el 
quarto, vestir a las recién venidas, regalar al cirujano, facilitar una fuga, ocultar 
un prefado, costear un casamiento, ellos lo hacen todo. No hay rincoén de la ciudad 
que ellos no visiten, ni mujer que no conozcan, ni concurso puiblico a que no 
asistan, ni feria en donde se hallen. jQué diligentes, qué callados, qué intrépidos, 
qué serviciales contodo el mundo! jOh, Napoles! jqual corte de Europa competiria 
contigo en punto de alcahuetes? jQual de ellas te excedera ni en el nimero ni en 
la excelencia de ellos? Bastaria el Signor Luigi para asegurarte esta preeminencia. 
Qué hombre alto, desvahido, encorbado con el peso de la edad y de los afanes 
graves de su ministerio, de venerable calva, de aspecto halaguefio y seforil, limpio, 
cortés, humilde, fiel, devotisimo de San Genaro y honrado a no poder mas, prendas 
que, unidas a la inteligencia de su arte, le hacian amable a quantos tenian la fortuna 
de conocerle. Si mis elogios no fuesen atribuidos a la expresiOn del agradecimiento, 
mas que a la de una admiracidn desinteresada y justa, no acabaria aqui su 
panegirico, y emplearia mi debil talento en recomendar a la posteridad remota 
el mérito de tan esclarecido varén. (pp. 239-241) 


Oppure osservazioni di colore che si trasformano in diagnosi politiche, come quando 
parla delle donne romane: 


La pasion del coche es una de las mas vehementes en las mugeres romanas. Las 
Lucrecias mas castas, si hay alguna, no resisten a un coche de quatro asientos. 
Asi es que, como no hay dinero para tanto, los paseos de Roma se componen de 
la primera o la infima clase; la primera en coche, y la segunda a pie, los que no 
pertenecen a ninguna de las dos estén condenados a clausura violenta. Por la 
mafiana es permitido a hombres y mugeres, de qualquier condici6én que fueren, 
usar de sus piernas; por la tarde hay prohibicion absoluta, so pena de confundirse 
con la gente ordinaria. Hay en Roma mucha vanidad y mucha miseria, mucha 
hypocresia y muchos vicios, la corrupcién de costumbres que en ella se nota es 
consecuencia necesaria del sistema de su Gobierno. Un Estado que debe su 
existencia al prestigio de la opinion y no a sus fuerzas intrinsecas necesariamente 
ha de haber adoptado por apoyos de la politica la[...: il manoscritto é illeggibile: 
sei righe son state cancellate] (p. 327) 


Ma in pit d’un caso son proprio gli imprevisti del viaggio a creare pagine 

spiritosissime. Si legga, per esempio, |’episodio della perdita e rinvenimento del 

baule accaduto proprio nei primi giorni del soggiorno in Italia, presso Piacenza: 
Plasencia, gran lugaron; registro a la puerta y “mi raccomando a la sua generosita”. 


Pasé de Firenzuola, distante dos postas de aquella ciudad, iba leyendo en mi 
carricoche, bien ageno de toda desgracia, me ocurre al mirar por la ventanilla 





Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Fernandez Moratin 


de la trasera, y me encuentro sin cofre, pie a tierra; desata el postillon uno de 
sus caballos, corre mds de media legua, y vuelve con la plausible noticia de que 
elcofre no parece, esto es, de que he perdido ademas de mi ropa, mis apuntaciones 
diarias de trece afios a esta parte, las cuentas de mis intereses en Espajfia, las 
recomendaciones para Embajadores, las observaciones hechas en mis viajes por 
Francia, Inglaterra, Flandes, Alemania, las traducciones del inglés, el trabajo de 
todo un afio, obras manuscritas y qué sé yo qué mas; si esto es bastante para hacer 
desesperar a qualquiera, nadie extrafiara a la desperacién en que me vi. En fin, 
preguntamos por todas partes; nadie da razon; observamos las cuerdas que ataban 
el cofre, y estaban cortadas; vuelta a Fiorenzuola; declaraci6n al Podesta. Como 
veneno en la posada. Salgo otra vez, acompafiado de tres soldados con sus tres 
fusiles, pero sin p6lvora ni baquetas; los dexo en el parage sospechoso para que 
pregunten, registren, prendan y, si es menester, disparen. Llego a Borgo San 
Domino, repito mi relacién al ‘Colonello dil terzo’, como si dixéramos, al Generali- 
simo de aquella comarca; yo no sé como se lo dixe, que al oirlo monta en célera, 
inmediatamente llama a su segundo, y dale orden para que luego, luego, luego, 
salga al frente de quinze hombres, que para aquel pais equivalen a un exército 
de veinte mil infantes y cinco mil y doscientos caballos y que con los dichos quinze 
ocupe los pasos, examine los puestos, corra la campana, y no deje malva que no 
examine; item mds, manda que a las nueve de la noche se toque a rebato en dos 
pueblecillos inmediatos al parage en que me sucedié el caso lastimoso, para que 
todos los vecinos salgan a buscar mi malogrado cofre. Yo, al oir aquello, 
confesemos nuestros defectos con ingenuidad, lector, amantisimo, senti un 
vaporcillo de vanidad, que me ocup6 la cabeza por un instante; la tropa en armas, 
las 6rdenes a rajatabla por todas partes, rebatoen los pueblos, alboroto, conmocién 
general; y todo esto gpor qué?, por mi cofre: joh, precioso cofre!, jinapreciables 
manuscritos! Vuelvo a montar en mi silla de Posta; el Coronel me consuela, me 
promete y jura por el bast6n que empufia, hazer parecer mis versos, si el centro 
de la tierra los ocultara, y embiar un extraordinario a Parma con las novedades 
que vayan ocurriendo; suena el latigo, me despido, y rompiendo por entre la 
apinada multitud, que me rodeaba con reverente y silencioso estupor, prosigo mi 
viage, y llego a Parma a las diez [ ... ] gY micofre? Mi cofre parecié immediata- 
mente, en virtud de la irrupcién de los quinze hombres y del rebato que se tocé 
por aquellos contornos; hallése en casa de un inocente labrador, que ya se disponia 
a abrirle para ver si contenia géneros prohibidos; la noticia del hallazgo me 
sorprendié, y llend mi Anima de contentamiento. (pp. 171-173 e 175) 


465 


Siamo in un ambiente da opera buffa, dove il grande commediografo spagnolo - 
che narra gli eventi come se preparasse un canovaccio da commedia - incontra un 
Trasone della provincia italiana; ma tutto ha un lieto fine perché le campane danno 
l’allarme e il custode del baule @ un ben intenzionato contadino che vuol solo 
verificare se vi si nascondono materiali dannosi per il bene della patria! 


University of Chicago 


ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


German Arciniegas: |’itinerario intellettuale 
di un latinoamericano in Italia 


1. AMERICA IN EUROPA 


Terra lontana, territorio inespugnabile, dai tempi della conquista fino ai movimenti 
insurrezionali, il continente latinoamericano costituisce una realta isolata e separata 
dai centri metropolitani a causa dell’immensita oceanica. II carattere continentale 
e transatlantico del Mundus Novus costringe gli spagnoli a istituire una “red de rutas 
mercantiles y maritimas”' che rende possibili i viaggi tra 1’ America e |’ Europa. 
Nel XVIII secolo, in virti della trasformazione delle strutture economiche attuate 
dalla Spagna, la borghesia commerciale di oltreoceano si trasforma in una classe 
sociale che rivendica i propri interessi. E si rende peraltro cosciente e desiderosa, 
non solo di un sapere cosmopolita, ma anche delle finesses che offre il Vecchio 
Continente. 

Per quanto varie siano le motivazioni, il viaggio attraverso i paesi europei ha 
spesso lo scopo, per i viaggiatori d’oltremare, di conferire un “tocco finale” alla 
loro educazione, proprio come aveva fatto il Grand Tour per 1 rampolli dell’aristocra- 
zia britannica dal Sei-Settecento in poi’. Nell’Ottocento 1’élite intellettuale 
latinoamericana, sovente composta da giovani proprietari di terre o aristocratici 
urbani, compie il viaggio in Europa, privilegiando in modo particolare la visita 
dell Italia. 

Sulla scorta di queste finalita Sim6n Bolivar, da annoverare tra i viaggiatori 
latinoamericani illustri, nell’estate del 1805, giunge in Italia. A tale proposito 
Gerhard Masur scrive che 


Quiza se sintiese atraido por Europa al comprender que s6lo alli podria completar 
su educacion y experiencia, por medio de lecturas, estudios y el trato con la gente’. 


L’incidenza dell’aspetto formativo con la consolidata ansia di viaggiare in Bolivar 
é sottolineata da German Arciniegas: 


el mas grande de los soldados que haya producido el continente americano no se 


1. R. M. Serrera, Trdfico terrestre y red vial en las Indias espanolas (Madrid, Ministerio 
del Interior, Direccién de Trafico, Lunwerk Editores, 1992), p. 13. 


2. Cfr. L. Monga, “Viaggiatori di lingua inglese a Napoli”, in Napoli e il Regno dei grandi 
viaggiatori, a cura di F. Paloscia (Roma, Abete, 1994), pp. 39-63. 


3. G. Masur, Simon Bolivar (Bogota, Instituto Colombiano de Cultura, 1960), pp. 59-60. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 





German Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 467 


form6 en la escuela militar. Se formé en las logias de Paris. . . . [el viaje] era 
pasion nacida en las tertulias de los exaltados peregrinos de Paris, madurada en 
ese peregrinaje para llegar a Italia‘. 


Non sorprende quindi se Bolivar si dimostra sensibile all’analisi dei fenomeni 
politici dell’Europa che privilegia la circolazione degli uomini e delle idee, nel 
momento in cui la germinazione del concetto di nazione non esclude, anzi per molti 
aspetti sembra addirittura imporre, la tendenza a marcare i confini etnici, religiosi, 
economici e culturali di ogni singolo stato. Le citta europee offrono al Bolivar 
viaggiatore lo spettro della pit: composita congerie di reggimenti politici, giuridici 
€ amministrativi. 

Quando Bolivar incontra a Roma I’altro illustre e appassionato viaggiatore, 
il barone Alexander von Humboldt’, ha gia maturato |’idea di rendere indipendente 
il continente latinoamericano. 


Jur6—dice Arciniegas—de una manera feroz, y sagrada. Jur6 que su tierra seria 
de libertad, que sacaria a latigazos a los tiranos, que entre la Espafia despotica 
y la América liberal quedaban rotas las viejas ataduras. (Italia, p. 165) 


Il giuramento pronunciato sul monte Aventino—ormai entrato nella leggenda—se- 
gna l’inizio della vita politica di Bolivar e la svolta del destino dell’ America Latina. 

Nel concerto dei paesi latinoamericani, agli albori del XX secolo, l’idea del 
viaggio, che si diffonde presso I’aristocrazia creola colombiana, trova testimonianza 
nel richiamo che esercitano la cultura classica e la moderna articolazione politica 
dell’Europa del tempo®. Per varie ragioni e per diverse sollecitazioni si registra, 
da questo momento in poi, un incessante flusso di viaggiatori’, i quali, spinti da 
un interesse intellettuale, considerano 1’Europa un ineludibile punto di riferimento 
per la loro formazione culturale. 


2. ARCINIEGAS: VAGABONDAGGIO E ITINERARIUM 


Milano, Assisi, Siena, Genova, Roma, Firenze, Venezia sono le tappe, consumate 


4. G. Arciniegas, Italia, guia para vagabundos (Buenos Aires, Sudamérica, 1965), p. 163, 
d’ora in avanti abbreviato in /talia nel testo. 


5. Una seducente relazione di viaggio é costituita dal libro Die Reise nach Siidamerika di 
Alexander von Humboldt (Gottingen, Lamuv Verlag, 1993). 


6. Fra i diplomatici pit importanti non si dimentichera il critico e scrittore Baldomero Sanin 
Cano (1863-1957). 


7. Fra i pit noti intellettuali colombiani si ricordano il poeta José Asunci6n Silva (1865- 
1896), lo scrittore Alberto Urdaneta (1845-1887), i pittori Francisco Antonio Cano (1865- 
1935), Ricardo Acevedo Bernal (1867-1939). Fra le due guerre, artisti come Eladio Vélez 
(1897-1967) e Marco Tobén Mejia (1876-1933) e altri. 


468 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


in un incessante alternarsi di avventure, musei e incontri, di un intellettuale del 
tempo. 

Italia, guia para vagabundos (1957), del diplomatico e scrittore colombiano 
German Arciniegas, é uno dei pochi libri di letteratura di viaggio che introduce 
il lettore in un campo assiologico di riflessioni, nel quale l’esperienza narrata 
trascende la letterarieta aneddotica. 

In termini di contestualita, il titolo é significante del vagabondaggio, concepito 
come esercizio intellettuale, gia parte integrante dello spirito contemplativo e 
dell’ozio creativo che professava la Wanderung tedesca. 

E se per Hermann Hesse la premessa indispensabile del “fare artistico”, 
incentrata attorno alla poetica del vagabondaggio, si basa su un’esistenza errabonda, 
sull’attivita meditativa di “unessere incammino”®, la filosofia di Arciniegas, come 
concezione dell’uomo e del mondo, riflette la cognizione lirica del cammino nel 
poeta spagnolo Antonio Machado: 


Caminante son tus huellas 
el camino, y nada mas; 
caminante, no hay camino, 


se hace camino al andar... ” 


Arciniegas, nella prospettiva contemporanea, non si identifica con il grand 
tourist, bensi con il viaggiatore cosmopolita. E, in parte, come nei personaggi di 
Paul Bowles, la diversita tra questi viandanti sta nel tempo: 


Laddove—spiega Bowles—in capo a qualche settimana o mese, il turista si affretta 
a far ritorno a casa, il viaggiatore, che dal canto suo non appartiene né a un luogo 
né all’altro, si sposta pill lentamente . . . un’altra importante differenza tra turista 
€ viaggiatore—aggiunge Bowles—é che il primo accetta la propria forma di civilta 
senza discutere; non cosi il viaggiatore che la paragona con le altre, e respinge 
quegli elementi che non trova di suo gusto". 


Arcimiegas viaggiatore concepisce dunque il suo vagabondaggio—senza rivelarsi 
un esperto memorialista—come una sorta di esperienza polivalente dove confluiscono 
la riflessione storica come simbiosi tra passato e presente, |’osservazione degli usi 
e dei costumi di una societa in permanente mutamento, il “vedere” artistico—di 
intensa meditazione estetica—e la valutazione, tramite la testimonianza dei 
protagonisti, degli avvenimenti politici e culturali dell’Italia del secondo dopoguerra. 


8. Cfr. H. Hesse, Dall’Italia. Diari, poesie, saggi e racconti (tit. orig. Italien Schilderungen, 
Tagebticher, Gediche. Aufsdtze. Buchbesprechungenund Erzahlungen), trad. diE. Banchelli 
e E. Ganni, intr. di E. Banchelli (Milano, Mondadori, 1990), pp. XIv-xv. 


9. A. Machado, “Cantares” in Poesias completas (Madrid, Espasa Calpe, 1988), p. 239. 


10. P. Bowles, Il té nel deserto (The Sheltering Sky), trad. di Hilia Brinis (Milano, Garzanti, 
1991), pp. 12-13. 


German Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 469 


3. ARCINIEGAS: PROFILO DEL VIAGGIATORE 


In Arciniegas, prototipo dell’intellettuale latinoamericano, si inscrivono le ragioni 
umanistiche collegate alle vicissitudini del periodo della sua formazione''. Sin 
dall’esordio come uomo di lettere, la sua concezione ideologica appare inserita 
nell’ambito della filosofia /iberal, che esalta il culto della liberta e la difesa della 
democrazia. Negli Anni Venti, mentre intraprende la carriera universitaria, 
Arciniegas aderisce al gruppo di intellettuali Los Nuevos”, i quali si differenziavano 
dai predecessori per |’acquisizione di una coscienza messianica appena temperata 
da un pathos circostanziale. 

Los Nuevos—con un atteggiamento incline a épater le bourgeois—mirano ad 
una rottura con |’intellighenzia colombiana del primo Novecento—ancora legata 
a un arcaicizzante eredita ottocentesca—assimilando il processo evolutivo della 
letteratura latinoamericana, iniziato con l’influsso del romanticismo tedesco. Nel 
momento in cui la borghesia imprenditoriale colombiana si avvia verso un’economia 
competitiva, Los Nuevos portano alle estreme conseguenze le forme letterarie del 
Modernismo. Come letterato Arciniegas propende per una metodica della 
rielaborazione evocativa della storia '*, versatile ad uno stile prossimo alla ricerca 
periodistica nordamericana e sensibile alle opere di autori di divulgazione. 
Rappresentante di un genere nuovo, lo scrittore colombiano si profila un maestro 
“nell’umanizzare la storia dei popoli”. 


4. ARCINIEGAS: “HOMO VIATOR” 


Arciniegas intraprende il suo lungo periplo di viaggi a partire dall’ascesa al potere 
nel suo paese dei conservatori (1945-1953) fino alla caduta della dittatura (1953- 


11. Appartenente alla generazione di intellettuali come il dominicano Pedro Enriquez Urena, 
gli argentini Jorge Luis Borges, Antonio Guiraldes, il venezuelano Romulo Gallegos e altri, 
Arciniegas si propone di conferire alla scrittura accenti programmatici di inesauribili 
suggestioni. In Colombia, la generazione di cui fa parte Arciniegas risente degli avvenimenti 
storici come la Rivoluzione messicana (1910) e la Rivoluzione russa (1917) e come anche 
il sorgere della Repubblica spagnola (1931) e dei movimenti universitari riformistici di 
Cordoba in Argentina (1918). Dal punto di vista intellettuale, l’influenza di scrittori come 
i peruviani José Carlos Mariategui e Victor Ratil Haya de La Torre, il messicano José 
Vasconcelos e il filosofo spagnolo José Ortega y Gasset, é determinante per la sua concezione 
ideologica. 


12. Del gruppo Los Nuevos fanno parte: Jorge Zalamea, Luis Vidales, German Pardo Garcia, 
Gabriel Turbay, Jorge Eliécer Gaitan, Felipe Lleras Camargo, Octavio Amértegui, José 
Mar, Carlos y Juan Lozano y Lozano e i membri del gruppo Los Leopardos: José Camacho 
Carreno, Augusto Ramirez Moreno, Silvio Villegas e Alberto Lleras Camargo. 


13. Tale tendenza é stata una elaborazione dello scrittore austriaco Stefan Zweig (1881-1942). 


470 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


1957). In una sorta di esilio volontario, l’ormai noto scrittore si reca negli Stati 
Uniti (1947) '* e in Europa, dove visita l’Inghilterra, la Germania, I’Italia e la 
Francia. 

Il volume /talia, guia para vagabundos é il risultato di questo percorso europeo, 
nel quale egli predilige 1’Italia per un dialogo ravvicinato con la sua vocazione 
umanistica. Ed é@ proprio in Italia che Arciniegas, con lo stesso spirito che 
contraddistingue lo scrittore spagnolo Benito Pérez Galdés, va alla ricerca del 
“contatto diretto e personale con gli uomini e con i luoghi, con la vita quotidiana 
e con la storia”’’. 

Dal registro di lettura del libro, pit che la resa descrittiva di un topos per 
eccellenza o la relazione di mirabilia urbane o di un semplice sguardo di pellegrino 
laico sulla societa, si evince la prerogativa programmatica di un asse ideale '° che 
vincola |’ America all’ Europa, rivelando una delle costanti del pensiero dell’ autore: 
“en cada lugar europeo, obra arquitect6nica, monumentos, estilo de las ciudades 
europeas [Arciniegas] encuentra la relacién directa con el mundo americano”. 

L’itinerario italiano si compie alla luce di tale intendimento, che si polarizza 
nel costante desiderio di “affiancare” le due culture—quella latinoamericana e quella 
europea—nell’intento di delineare e di affermare una identita culturale che soddisfi 
lintellettuale latinoamericano e segni una tappa fondamentale dell’uomo Arciniegas. 

Nelle pagine del libro percid gettano luce e si esibiscono |’entusiasmo e 
l’ostinazione con cui nelle sue giornate italiane l’autore si adopera per comprendere 
il culto della bellezza e dell’arte, della storia e della letteratura, della natura e della 
spontaneita. 

E tuttavia egli non assume |’atteggiamento di un osservatore erudito, bensi quello 
del viaggiatore colto che analizza la realta oggettiva, immediata, attratto da 
personaggi pittoreschi e da intellettuali affermati come anche dal modus vivendi 
di un paese che sta attraversando uno dei periodi pid critici della sua storia. 


5. ARCINIEGAS UMANISTA 


L’itinerario italiano di Arciniegas, contrariamente a quello del Grand Tour e 
dell’ Italienische Reise di Goethe, risulta privo di percorsi stabiliti a priori, e dunque 
non é un viaggio improntato all’insegna di una cronologia, ma logico nella sua 
esplicazione. Visi riscontra una ricerca costante delle “ragioni” di un umanesimo 
segnato dalla contemporaneita, lontano gia dalla paradigmatica analisi sommaria 


14. Nel continente americano si vincola con diverse universita: Chicago, Berkeley e Columbia. 


15. B. Pérez Galdos, Le citta italiane (Viaje a Italia), trad. di V. Cardone (Napoli, Guida, 
1993), p. 7. 


16. Per tale sviluppo diconcezioni cfr. G. Arciniegas, América en Europa (Bogota, Editorial 
Planeta, 1989). 





Germdn Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 471 


settecentesca, secondo la quale al di sotto della varieta dei costumi, delle leggi, 
delle lingue dei popoli e delle nazioni, sarebbero pur sempre rintracciabili l’impianto 
uniforme della natura umana, le passioni fondamentali che la muovono e con esse 
i principi di una morale comune capace di parlare a tutti gli uomini. 

Il viaggiatore contemporaneo come Arciniegas non é interessato a rinvenire 
negli eventi l’impianto uniforme della natura umana, bensi l’interazione di una dignita 
etica e di una propensione estetica, lo slancio riformatore e spirituale che tra 
Medioevo e Rinascimento aveva configurato, per il tramite di figure come San 
Francesco di Assisi, la visione del mondo e dell’uomo moderno. 

Arciniegas, erede del clima neoidealistico, si mostra incline alla condizione 
esistenziale del Santo di Assisi e alla riscoperta dell’ansia di rinnovamento spirituale 
di cui il Santo é simbolo. Egli é dunque pervaso dal nuovo umanesimo, avverso 
al clericalismo curiale e precursore di una moderna religiosita e di una comunione 
umana e cosmica. E se un pregiudizio protestante e antimedioevale ha fatto 
esprimere a Goethe, davanti alla chiesa del Santo, non senza disgusto, che lascia 
a sinistra “le enormi sostrutture di quel turrito ammasso babilonico ch’é la chiesa 
dove giace il corpo di San Francesco”,'’ per un viaggiatore alla soglia del XX 
secolo, sensibile come Hesse, la basilica di Assisi pud essere considerata la culla 
della grande arte italiana '*. E mentre Henry James prova, come risultato finale 
di una meditazione, davanti all’urna di San Francesco, “una carita grande e anche 
gioiosa” '°, Arciniegas sperimenta 1’incontro con il linguaggio francescano, con 
il carattere errabondo della sua predicazione e avverte la presenza del Santo: 


Con esa alma de Dios que nos hablaba, en la plaza sola, entre el oro de la tarde, 
se tocaba el recuerdo. Estaba vivo. (Italia, p. 14) 


L’umanesimo che pervade il periodare nella scansione giornaliera degli eventi, 
suscita l’immediatezza di altre meditazioni. 

Nessuna citta @ pit’ consona di Firenze per queste considerazioni. Durante 
il soggiorno nella citta sull’Arno, Arciniegas si sofferma a ricordare la figura di 
Giovanni Papini, prendendo lo spunto dagli articoli che venivano pubblicati sul 
“Corriere della Sera” che definisce scritti “en un estilo Ileno de frescura, de gracia 
y de inteligencia” (Italia, p. 68). Le ultime opere dello scrittore fiorentino avevano 
del resto fatto pensare a un Papini del tutto insolito e sconcertante. E Arciniegas, 
memore anche di quell’incontro personale che aveva avuto otto anni prima, avverte 
quanto il tono degli ultimi scritti sia assai dissimile da quello manifestatosi nelle 


17. W. Goethe, Viaggio in Italia (Italienische Reise), trad. di A. Masini (Firenze, Salani, 
1965), p. 179. 


18. H. Hesse, Dall’Italia, cit., p. 283. 


19. H. James, Ore italiane (Italian Hours), trad. di C. Salone, pref. di A. Brilli (Milano, 
Garzanti, 1984), p. 287. 


472 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


opere pili note, a cominciare dal Crepuscolo dei filosofi (1905), dal Diavolo (1953) 
e soprattutto dal polemico articolo Quello che l’America Latina non ha dato, 
pubblicato in La spia del mondo (1955), cosi audace, provocatorio e contraddittorio, 
nei riguardi dell’ America Latina. L’intenzionalita dissacratoria di questo articolo 
non collimava con la visione positivista di Arciniegas e trova una risposta adeguata”’ 
nel libro América en Europa dello scrittore colombiano. Per Arciniegas |’ articolo 
sull’ America Latina “nacié6 como uno de aquellos combates que él suscitaba sin 
otro propésito que el de obrar como animador, como reactivo violento” (Jtalia, 
p. 69). 

Ma ora Si trova di fronte un Papini inaspettato e insospettato, cosi commosso, 
umano e cordiale; cosi comprensivo e rassegnato dal dolore; cosi misericordioso 
verso il prossimo e cosi stimolato dalla pieta. 


Verlo hoy—annota Arciniegas—con toda la lucidez de su imaginacion y de su 
inteligencia, amarrado entre una carcel de miisculos tiesos, de huesos contraidos, 
es cosa tremenda. (Italia, p. 69) 


Arciniegas, come molti altri critici e scrittori italiani, tenta di giustificare il 
cambiamento o la novita con la malasorte che aveva colpito nel fisico lo scrittore 
fiorentino. Egli riconosce ed esalta l’uomo Papini invaso dalla febbre di fare, 
dall’ansia della verita, dalla ricerca della bellezza e dell’ideale. Papini, che per 
disprezzo nei confronti di alcuni artisti crede di poter ripudiare I’arte, si rifugia 
nella filosofia, quasi per riscattare il disgusto per il prossimo e per affermare le 
sue verita segrete. Tuttavia l’equivoco é rimasto: fra i concetti e le immagini, fra 
l’indagine dialettica e l’intuizione poetica, fra l’amore e 1’odio; tutto cid ha costituito 
poi il male organico del Papini di prima e di quello delle opere postume. 

In compagnia di un altro grande scrittore contemporaneo, Ignazio Silone, il 
viaggio in Italia—prospettandosi come categoria di conoscenze, con i conseguenti 
addentellati segnici, storico-sociali e culturali—satura la curiosita e la consapevolezza 
dell’ Arciniegas viaggiatore. 

Lo scrittore colombiano, radicato nell’humus culturale dello storicismo, discetta 
con lo scrittore abruzzese sulla figura di Pietro da Morrone, diventato Papa con 
il nome di Celestino V. La vita singolare di Pietro da Morrone si inserisce, come 
afferma Arciniegas, nella storia della Chiesa “que es un conjunto de extrafias 
historias, [y donde] la de Celestino parece una de la mds extrafias”. 

A proposito della inconsueta vicenda di Pietro da Morrone “che fece per vilta 
il gran rifiuto”, Arciniegas stabilisce con Silone una polemica analogia; da una parte, 


20. Contro il Papini che in La spia nel mondo (1955) aveva affermato che "l’ America tutto 
lo ha ricevuto dall’Europa", Arciniegas stabilisce una vivace polemica, un dibattito che 
costituira parte centrale della sua tesi generale esposta nel libro América en Europa, dove 
con determinazione afferma: “Después del Cristianismo, nada ha producido un cambio tan 
radical en el pensamiento europeo como la presencia de América” (p. 18). 





German Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 473 


mette in risalto l’umilta di un eremita che “entre ser Papa y ser Santo, opt6 por 
lo segundo” (Italia, p. 33), e dall’altra, la personalita e la sua speciale “concezione 
umana”. Secondo Arciniegas, la rinuncia al Papato da parte di Celestino V, che 
a Dante “parecié una vileza, una cobardia” (Italia, p. 31), mette in rilievo il 
disaccordo dello scrittore abruzzese, il quale cosi si esprime in questo cauto dialogo: 


No estoy de acuerdo con el Dante. La renuncia de Celestino, en vez de indicar 
cobardia, es muestra de coraje. Celestino fue un santo maravilloso, si es posible 
decirlo, aun mas de izquierda que San Francisco de Asis. (Italia, p. 32) 


Questo scambio di idee, avvenuto durante la visita della citta dell’ Aquila, 
permette di approfondire il sincretismo che opera nel pensiero socialista di Silone, 
del quale fanno parte integrante l’educazione cristiana, l’ideologia e la sentimentalita 
cristiana, francescana e millenarista e l’esperienza marxista: un sincretismo in cui 
il socialismo neocristiano si fa liberale”’. 


6. ARCINIEGAS ESTETA 


Non esiste una citta italiana senza storia, una storia di cui non resti traccia nelle 
opere e nel flusso delle memorie. Arciniegas percorre, con una sorta di sinestetica 
sensibilita, l’immenso museo che é I’Italia, e davanti a ogni opera appare accrescersi 
il genius loci delle sue acute osservazioni. 

E se, conformemente a quanto afferma Gillo Dorfles, esistono 


diferentes formas de fruicién y de interpretacién, correspondientes a las diferentes 
personalidades de quien juzga la obra, y variables en funcién de las épocas, de 
las situaciones psicoldgicas del individuo particular y de la propia personalidad 
del sujeto”, 


Si pud arguire che i giudizi assiologici espressi da Arciniegas riflettono lo spirito 
della sua formazione, il gusto della sua generazione, forgiatosi in ambito arcaiciz- 
zante e dentro il canone di una estetica classicheggiante. 

Arciniegas soggiace a una concezione della storia dell’ arte che ricorda un altro 
“paladino” del classicismo, Winckelmann teorico della trasformazione della visione 
mitica del mondo antico in una visione storica”. “En Florencia—commenta 
Arciniegas—se remueve una tela de Vasari y se descubre un Giotto perdido” (/talia, 
p. 53). Arciniegas non dispiega uno spirito critico; il suo atteggiamento é quello 
di un connaisseur che non ostenta erudizione, bensi un’educazione sentimentale 
che amalgama la realta effettuale e l’immaginario. 


21. Cfr. G. Ricobello, Ignazio Silone (Firenze, Le Monnier, 1975). 
22. G. Dorfles, Las oscilaciones del gusto (Barcelona, Lumen, 1974), p. 16. 


23. F. Calvo Serraller, “La critica de arte”, in AA. VV., Los espectaculos del arte (Barcelona: 
Tusquets, 1983), p. 30. 


474 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


Nello splendido palazzo dei Borromeo nell’ Isola Bella, lo scrittore commenta 
che nelle pareti si trovano “originales de Leonardo,Luini, Caravaggio, Tiepolo... 
y telas atribuidas y telas copiadas y telas falsas, como en toda galeria” (Italia, p. 
182). 

Allo stesso modo, nella cattedrale di Tarquinia si appresta a salire sul presbiterio 
per vedere alcuni affreschi della Vergine che “parecian Ghirlandaios” (Jtalia, p. 
25). Il testo dello scrittore ripropone |’equilibrio fra storia e arte nell’ambito di 
una funzione didattico-informativa, elemento primordiale, gid applicata sin dal 
Settecento nella letteratura del viaggio ~. 

Nella visione del Vaticano, lo scrittore si avvale di una copiosa fonte di 
informazioni. gli discerne la prima basilica costantiniana del progetto di 
Michelangelo dall’intervento di Maderno e dalla fase conclusiva di Bernini (Italia, 
p. 115). 

Nel suo divagare davanti ad affreschi e a tele, Arciniegas come probabilmente 
é accaduto a Stendhal, sperimenta il “momento estetico” secondo la concezione 
di Berenson, vale a dire: 


quel fugace istante cosi breve da essere quasi senza tempo, in cui lo spettatore 
é una sola cosa con l’opera d’arte che egli guarda, o con I’attualita di qualunque 
genere che lo spettatore medesimo vede in termini d’arte, come forma e colore. 
Egli cessa di essere il se stesso ordinario, e la pittura o l’edificio, la storia, il 
paesaggio o l’attualita estetica non é pid al di fuori di lui. 


Ecosi Arciniegas evoca, con un sussurro suadente—senza le inflessioni auliche 
della curiosita da museo—Giotto, nei cui affreschi “todo ocurre con la naturalidad 
del absurdo, que es ley de los milagros” (Italia, p. 116). Eal tempo stesso, il suo 
incarnarsi in opere d’arte, patinate dai secoli, discopre la sottile grammatica 
attraverso la quale glié possibile stabilire quel genere di contatto nel quale si esplica 
un godimento estetico, né acriticamente devoto né pretenzioso: accorto semmai, 
sensibile e consapevole del passato; percid l’affresco di Giotto che rappresenta la 
vita del Santo di Assisi appare a lui come “una tapiceria de color” (Jtalia, p. 17). 

In questa distanza fra l’opera d’arte e il fruitore della stessa si interpone la 
scrittura, che costituisce l’apporto pid originale del libro, che non vuol essere né 
un bagaglio sentimentale, né un sofisticato esercizio in cui le ricercatezze di stile 
e di linguaggio aspirano a farsi referenti di se stesse, obliterando le occasioni da 
cui sono nate. 

E da questo complesso atteggiamento, dal fatto cioé che dalla propensione colta 
e istintiva a un tempo, che affiorano fantasmatici segni di sensazioni, di atmosfere 


24. J. Boswell, Viaggio in Corsica, intr. di A. Brilli (Palermo, Sellerio, 1989), p. 12. 


25. B. Berenson, Estetica, etica e toria nelle arti della rappresentazione visiva, trad. di 
M. Praz (Milano, Leonardo, 1990), p. 77. 











German Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 475 


e di presenze raffinate. Gli ineludibili statuti della cronaca di viaggio e la propria 
soggettiva attrazione prorompono nella visione del Tiepolo della scuola del Carmine, 
dove la potenzialita evocativa é quasi esorcizzata: 


Vuela su arte rompiendo con los colores y las imagenes los limites materiales de 
las estancias para avanzar a las esferas celestes. (Italia, p. 87) 


Arciniegas ama “parlare” con immagini che non sfociano nella metafora, bensi 
circoscrivono il mondo della rappresentazione visiva, creando inaspettate e inusuali 
referenze come nel ritratto di Beatrice Cenci: “la sonrisa triste que inmortaliz6 Guido 
Reni” (Italia, p. 22). 

A Siena la cromaticita vibrante di un gruppo di sbandieratori, nella cornice 
del Palio, gli fa scrivere che 


ni una muchedumbre salida en los cuadros de Gozzoli o Ghirlandaio podria igualar 
este espectaculo. (Italia, p. 36) 


Nel sopore di un tramonto autunnale, guardando il Tevere a Roma, Arciniegas 
si domanda di che colore sono le acque: 


{De oro bizantino? ,O se parecena las frentes graves de los caballeros que pintaba 
El Greco? (Italia, p. 121) 


Ancora una volta Arciniegas si serve delle sue cognizioni sulla natura delle 
arti visive per avanzare—mediante un aneddoto—un discorso sulla questione morale 
del nudo in arte. 

Egli opera una ovvia separazione fra pornografia ed erotismo percorrendo—in 
una sorta di analisi sommaria—differenti tappe della storia dell’arte: dal pathos 
idealistico del bello nei classici dell’antichita alla velata oscenita del periodo greco- 
romano e alla concezione del corpo come tabi nel Medio Evo. Sara dunque il 
Rinascimento, con il suo nuovo paganesimo a cancellare il senso dell’oscenita 
dall’opera d’arte e la nudita tornera ad essere sublime bellezza ideale, “horizonte 
en el que lo humano autocontempla su perfeccién y su suefio””®. 

Per Arciniegas “el caso de las artes plAsticas no hay que discutirlo” e tutto 
é prerogativa del soggetto: 


los mitos de Apolo y de Venus se apoyan en la perfeccion fisica de la criadura 
humana ... lo discreto en Botticelli, al presentar a Venus en su nacimiento fue 
imaginarla desnuda. ... lo discreto en Canova, desnudar a Paolina Buonaparte. 
(Italia, p. 24) 


Un altro aspetto sul quale Arciniegas si sofferma é la simbiosi fra il passato 
e la sua testimonianza. II motivo delle rovine assurge a universalita categoria- 


26. L. A. De Villena, “Descaros y antifaces en el arte del cuerpo”, in AA. VV., Los 
espectaculos, cit., p. 227. 


476 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


le—dalla fine del Settecento in poi—costituendo materia di un genere che trova 
terreno fertile nelle relazioni di viaggio per esprimere |’intera gamma delle sue 
proposte. Gia vedutisti come Gaspar Van Wittel hanno subito l’incanto di un 
paesaggio tra la mirabilia urbis e la campagna “ricco di fascino e di significati 
reconditi, stratificati quanto i detriti e le rovine di tante epoche sovrapposte” ”’. 

La suggestione che promana dalle rovine, classiche 0 medievali, tocca la 
sensibilita del visitatore e cid spiega la diffusione, invero straordinaria, della sua 
trattazione nella letteratura del viaggio, nell’arte e nel costume di varie epoche. 

La rovina é il simbolo pit perentorio della caducita di ogni opera umana, e 
la commozione da esse provocata é di natura elegiaca**. Come per i decadenti 
“plus belle que la beauté est la ruine de la beauté”, per Arciniegas “las ruinas le 
dan a uno una nueva dimension a la belleza” (Italia, p. 210). 

E dato cosi cogliere che, nella forma architettonica violata dal tempo, vi é una 
fusione di elementi umani e di elementi naturali. Quando un’architettura antica 
in disfacimento appare invasa dalla vegetazione, viene intuita non come un 
monumento sottoposto a un processo di derelizione il cui esito é la distruzione, bensi 
a uno stadio di metamorfosi della bellezza primitiva. E anche come la sintesi che 
ricrea l’unita vivente sotto altri rapporti, unita che si profila talora anche pit 
affascinante di quella originale. 

Per Arciniegas, nella sua visione della Roma Imperiale, le rovine acquistano 
maggior presenza simbolica quando sono frammischiate a erbae aboscaglia. “Esta 
bien—annota Arciniegas—que el tiempo se encargue de poner toques de naturaleza 
viva sobre la naturaleza muerta” (/talia, p. 135). 

La Roma delle rovine per Arciniegas non é una mera somma di antichita e 
-“anticaglia”, un paesaggio statico, bensi un quadro animato dove il popolo svolge 
i lavori quotidiani sullo sfondo di uno scenario del passato. 


Del templo de Vesta con su precioso cilindro de columnas estriadas, salen las 
cuerdas para tender la ropa: las camisolas eternas de las lavanderas italianas. 

Ahora, la gente acaricia las ruinas, porque son ruinas. Las mira con nostalgia 
por la seguridad de que estan muertas. (Italia, p. 136) 


Gli scenari di Taormina, Paestum, Pompei ed Ercolano offrono ad Arciniegas 
insinuanti elementi costitutivi a una pit ampia valorizzazione estetico - sensistica 
delle rovine, per la varieta, squisitezza e trasparenza dei colori e delle luci che 
emanano questi reperti archeologici. 

E se Henry James a Firenze nella cornice di una fila di case di “eta immemora- 
bile” coglie il senso del colore nella citta del Rinascimento “poiché il fiume é giallo, 


27. S. Susinno, La veduta nella pittura italiana (Firenze, Sansoni, 1974), p. 13. 


28. Si vedano almeno, tra |’insieme di “poésies des ruines”, Les Antiquitez de Rome e Les 
Regrets di Joachim du Bellay. 


German Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 477 


la luce é gialla”’’, Arciniegas davanti allo spettacolo di Taormina percepisce 
intuitivamente, non solo la fisionomia architettonica ma anche la qualita coloristica 
del luogo e si accorge che “Taormina misma tiene el gris verdoso de las piedras” 
(Italia, p. 207). 

Anche a Pompei, nella citta della memoria, niente @ pit probante della 
connaturalita coloristica delle pietre che, in tempi lontani, ornavano vestiboli e case 
le cui pareti sono “encendidas de ese rojo pompeyano que tiene mds vida que un 
labio de mujer bien pintado” (Italia, p. 213). 

Peraltro, nell’ambito di possibili utilizzazioni del motivo delle rovine, Arciniegas 
commenta che la distruzione non é soggetta unicamente all’azione della natura nel 
tempo, ma anche all’intervento dell’opera degli uomini, prima dei barbari e poi 
dei principi, come i Barberini che “desmontaron foros y coliseos para hacerse 
palacios”. Costoro hanno cosi compiuto la funzione romantica completando “el 
siglo de la vida y de la muerte” (Italia, p. 138). 

Le testimonianze della Roma romantica, susseguite a quelle della Roma 
imperiale, fanno constatare ad Arciniegas che fatalmente “todos llevamos un 
romantico emboscado en el alma” (Jtalia, p. 137). 

Sempre a Taonmina, all’agglomerato di strutture che nell’antichita fu vivo, oggi, 
i secoli aggiungono, in virtd della presenza della storia “un toque romantico que 
esparce poesia” (Italia, p. 207). 

L’Italia delle rovine, vista da un contemporaneo, possiede ancora quel substrato 
di effetti sentimentali presente in Byron: egli infatti, con esprit de finesse, esulta 
al romantic aspect del Bel Paese. 

E dato trovare, nel capitolo “Un siglo de mugre, el XIX”, un’ulteriore 
riflessione nella quale, senza alcuna sorta di ritegno, l’autore scompone e dissolve 
lo strato di “mugre” che si é venuto deponendo ogni dove, alterando |’equilibrio 
raggiunto nei secoli. Gli si prospetta il passato di una intera civilta, che affiora 
dalle muffe degli antichi palazzi, dal rigore tenebroso delle chiese, diverso da quello 
che normalmente appare. 


Las columnas del primer patio en el Palacio de la Seforia de Florencia - annota 
Arciniegas - tienen toda la riqueza del Renacimiento. ... Hace tres 0 cuatro afios 

.. enel patio, ni se veia el oro de las columnas, ... mas que de piedra, eran de 
mugre. ... La costumbre de ver las cosas sucias ha formado una segunda naturaleza. 
(Italia, p. 71) 


La sua attenzione si sposta quindi sulla considerazione che intere epoche 
pittoriche non hanno messo in luce la loro vera identita a causa della corrosione 
e della patina alle quali sono state sottoposte nel tempo. 


Nadie sabe cudles eran los colores originales de las pinturas, y todos se han ido 


29. H. James, Ore italiane, cit., p. 335. 


478 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


encarifiando con la patina, con la tierra, con el polvo, e identificando a los viejos 
maestros con unas oscuridades que ellos nunca pusieron en sus paletas. Tenemos 
la idea de que la Edad Media fue penumbrosa, y el Siglo XIX ha puesto sin 
embargo mas sombras sobre la imagineria de unos siglos dorados que todas las 
oscuridades que tuvo el mundo gotico. (Italia, p. 71) 


Gravato dalla consapevolezza di uno spirito critico, Arciniegas, nel rivisitare 
il vasto e proteiforme patrimonio artistico italiano, é stimolato costantemente da 
paradigmi inediti di analisi. 


7. ARCINIEGAS STORICO 


Arciniegas si pone dinanzi al dibattito storico del Vecchio Continente con un 
atteggiamento di profondo interesse. Istituisce una sorta di nesso analogico tra la 
valutazione di una realta ideologica e l’esigenza di rinvenire una nuova dimensione 
critica delle vicende del suo tempo. D’altronde, in armonia con i canoni di Aldous 
Huxley, il viaggio rappresenta “un’escursione attraverso la storia del pensiero”. 

Alla luce di una carica emotiva, lo scrittore colombiano esamina con spirito 
partecipativo e analitico gli avvenimenti del presente che percepisce attraverso la 
propria esperienza di pensatore e sociologo che ha vissuto con il secolo. 

La lettura del mondo italiano in Arciniegas coincide anche con la verifica in 
loco di precedenti conoscenze, di storie e di eventi che lo scrittore aveva tesaurizzato 
prima del suo arrivo in Italia. 

Nel visitare Firenze, Arciniegas ricostruisce, infatti, le fasi nelle quali, dalla 
Signoria all’ Unita d’Italia, la citta rinnova il suo patrimonio sociale e riacquista 
il suo potere economico. E qui che egli si intrattiene a rievocare non solo le 
meraviglie dell’arte, ma anche la figura coeva del “demdécrata cristiano” Giorgio 
La Pira, sindaco di Firenze, che aveva svolto in quegli anni un’intensa attivita di 
mediazione nei conflitti che agitavano vari paesi nel mondo”. 

Arciniegas esalta particolarmente in La Pira il suo umanesimo e la sua sensibilita 
nei confronti dei diritti umani: 


Su lucha contra el Comunismo - afferma Arciniegas - se reduce a acercarse a los 
de abajo, a los humildes, a los trabajadores, para proporcionarles trabajo, 
habitacién, asistencia. (Italia, p. 61) 


Nel corso di una conversazione in Palazzo Vecchio, La Pira riferisce ad 


30. Le sue missioni di pace (in Siria, in Libano, in Francia e in Algeria) e le varie trattative 
internazionali e gli interventi sui rischi della guerra atomica, hanno avuto un particolare 
significato politico nel mondo occidentale e anche orientale. La Pira é convinto che tutti 
i paesi che si affacciano sul Mediterraneo abbiano un destino comune e, per questo motivo, 
avvia una serie di “colloqui mediterranei”. Nel meeting della Croce Rossa Internazionale 
a Ginevra nel 1955, il suo intervento é decisivo ai fini del disgelo nel mondo arabo. 





German Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 479 


Arciniegas che 


el Comunismo ya no existe. Tiene treinta aflos, que es lo mas que puede durar 
una dictadura. A los treinta afios le ocurre a los pueblos lo que a los jévenes: que 
les da la gana de hablar, de criticar, de expresarse libremente. Por eso el 
comunismo es ya una dictadura muerta. (Italia, p. 61) 


Arciniegas aggiunge che la valutazione nei confronti del comunismo, che gli 
aveva fatto La Pira, valeva anche nei riguardi del fascismo. 

Militante del Partito Liberale colombiano, Arciniegas appare oggi—nel contesto 
di un ampio spettro ideologico—un progressista che sa che a problemi nuovi 
occorrono risposte nuove, ispirate a principi permanenti”*’. 

A Roma, Arciniegas assiste agli avvenimenti storici che preludono alla 
costruzione della democrazia, all’indomani della Liberazione. Gli anni che seguono 
alla fine della Seconda Guerra Mondiale sono caratterizzati da profondi mutamenti 
politici e istituzionali. AlII’interno della tradizione liberale viene instaurata una 
democrazia che sostiene la partecipazione di una societa di massa. Con l’avvento 
dei partiti, Arciniegas constata che la collettivita cessa di essere diretta dalle 
tradizionali élites borghesi e liberali e viene controllata dagli apparati dei partiti 
antifascisti. 

E in questo momento critico della storia politica italiana che personaggi come 
Palmiro Togliatti, esponente principale del P.C.I., svolgono unruolo fondamentale 
nella acutissima conflittualita sociale, politica e soprattutto ideologica del paese. 

Nell’ascoltare il discorso di Togliatti durante una festa dell’ Unita, un discorso 
sulla liberta distampa, Arciniegas annota che le reazioni dei comunisti nei confronti 
dei critici dell’organo del partito “l’ Unita”, si giustificano con l’ignoranza di quanto 
accade nell’Unione Sovietica, dove non esiste un giornalismo di opposizione. 


Tal vez—scrive Arciniegas—en la mente de los misticos del comunismo, como 
en todo sistema totalitario, queda entendido que la libertad quiere decir libertad 
para los del partido, cuando el partido Ilegue al poder. (/talia, pp. 114-115) 


I comunisti avevano sottovalutato la vitalita del capitalismo nel sistema 
industriale. Questa incomprensione, sommandosi alla fine dell’unita sindacale e 
alla discriminazione messa in atto dal padronato contro gli operai comunisti, segna 
nel 1955 una profonda crisi nella C.G.I.L. In occasione delle elezioni per il rinnovo 
delle commissioni interne alla FIAT, la C.G.I.L., il maggior sindacato italiano, 
subisce una dura sconfitta. E Arciniegas cosi commenta: 


La serie de derrotas que han venido sufriendo los comunistas en las mas grandes 
concentraciones industriales de Italia, como en la FIAT, o en las fabricas de 


31. Sull’argomento cfr. G. Prezzolini, Manifesto dei conservatori, a cura di S. Romano 
(Milano, Longanesi, 1995). 


480 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


motocicletas, tiene su justa explicacion en el hecho de que al obrero no le interesa 
estar manifestandose solidario de la China o del nacionalismo ruso, cuando sus 
problemas son italianos. (Italia, pp. 152-153) 


Queste riflessioni sulla situazione socio-politica italiana degli anni Cinquanta, 
rivelano il carattere del suo neoliberalismo e la sua concezione sul valore assoluto 
della persona, all’insegna delle riforme sociali. 


8. ARCINIEGAS SOCIOLOGO 


L’esperienza vissuta, in presa diretta con la coscienza del suo tempo, offre ad 
Arciniegas il movente alla sua strenua ricerca dell’uomo naturale, uguale a se stesso, 
nelle pit! marcate differenze etniche e culturali. La struttura uniforme della natura 
umana é il fattore che consente di superare ogni barriera di usi e costumi e ogni 
diversita linguistica e di compenetrare il senso delle azioni degli uomini. 

Nel quadro degli interessi della ricerca sociologica, in Arciniegas si rinvengono 
l’appropriazione e l’utilizzazione di riflessioni filosofiche. Il procedimento 
interpretativo, teso a rilevare nella sfera sociale il comportamento umano, riconduce 
alla teoria weberiana dell’agire, inteso come agire ’sociale’, riferito - secondo il 
suo senso dall’agente - all’atteggiamento degli altri individui, e orientato nel suo 
corso e nei suoi effetti in base a questo *. 

L’ottimistica fede in una base comune di riferimento e di intesa fra gli uomini 
suona talora come un’affermazione rassicurante. Pid che impressioni dell’uomo 
nel paesaggio, sono dunque, gli incontri, i fatti, i colloqui e gli aneddoti che 
scandiscono il libro di viaggio di Arciniegas, quelli che gli consentono di illustrare 
con piacevole agio le abitudini e il carattere degli italiani. 

Lo scrittore colombiano, si pud affermare con Pineda, sa dare a “personajes 
y acontecimientos pinceladas de naturalidad”*. 

Arciniegas percorre le citta con l’atteggiamento dell’osservatore sensibile che 
sintetizza i gesti, le attitudini e le tracce delle idiosincrasie dell’uomo italiano. Nel 
capitolo Autobus romano, \’autore, nel commentare la tipica vivacita e spontaneita 
mediterranea, osserva che I’autobus non sembra una macchina ma “un foro” e il 
suo conducente, con la sua loquacita, nel posto di guida, si “considera en una 
tribuna”. (Jtalia, p. 103) 

Dalla loquacita alla gesticolazione, Arciniegas individua negli italiani “lo 
expresivo de cada movimiento minimo”. Per lui un poliziotto romano é di una 
“elocuencia manual asombrosa”. 

Allorché la storia degli uomini |’assale—quasi per mettersi al riparo dal pericolo 


32. Cfr. M. Weber, Economia e societa (Wirtschaft und Gesellschaft. Gundrihs der 
verstehenden Soziologie) (Bologna, Il Mulino, 1961). 


33. S. Pineda, “Presencia de German Arciniegas”, in Una visién de América, cit., p. 231. 


| 





German Arciniegas: un itinerario intellettuale 481 


di perdere la propria identita—Arciniegas sente il bisogno di confrontare l’ America 
e l’Europa, due civilta interdipendenti storicamente: e cid costituisce uno dei tratti 
pid originali di questo libro. 

Perd non é solo il gesto individuale o la connotazione di ogni singola personalita 
che attrae Arciniegas: nelle sue pagine si esplicita l’inequivocabile raffronto, nel 
contesto sociale, fra i due mondi. Si spiega cosi l’analitica descrizione delle usanze 
romane, in occasione della solenne ricorrenza delle feste natalizie, dei presepi di 
Piazza Navona e dei mercati di Piazza di Spagna, dove i venditori si affannano a 
tappezzare le famose scale: 


Este mercado de Arboles no puede ocurrir sino en Roma, ciudad de escaleras. En 
la Plaza Navona es la feria tradicional de los pesebres. (Italia, p. 122) 


Arciniegas ricorda inoltre che il creatore del Presepe fu San Francesco che 


ha henchido de luz la poesia de todo el mundo, que ha dado vida a mil telas, 
cumpliéndose la obra m4gica de inspiracién mas extraordinaria de muchos siglos. 
(Italia, p. 123) 


A questo rito della festa di Natale, le culture del Nuovo Mondo si sono ispirate 
tramandandolo universalmente: “las familias latinoamericanas, las colombianas—an- 
nota Arciniegas—hacen su novena y cantan villancicos en sus casas”. (Italia, p. 
122) E cosi anche 


Los montafieros de Colombia, los negros de las regiones mas humildes de 
Venezuela, los que hacen la misica para las posadas en México, los que en Puerto 
Rico inventan villancicos, los imagineros de Quito, cada vez que convierten en 
miisica, en poesia, en imagenes sus Navidades estan obediendo, sin saberlo, a ese 
impulso del poeta de Asis. (Italia, p. 123) 


Ed é@ proprio a Roma, in Piazza di Spagna, luogo canonico del Grand Tour, 
dove si intrattiene con gli uomini e€ le cose e in cui gli é possibile entrare in sintonia 
con il presente™. 

Sin dal secolo XVII, la maestosa piazza e i suoi dintorni erano gia il maggior 
centro di attrazione di Roma. Si pud dire che, durante i tre secoli che seguono, 
non vi é stato personaggio importante che, giungendo a Roma, non vi prenda 
alloggio, da Rubens a Poussin, Kauffman, Adam, Stendhal, Balzac, Wagner, 
Andersen, Byron e Keats, per non parlare dei milords inglesi impegnati nel ” gran 
giro d’Europa” e dei non pochi sovrani. 

Il raffronto con le usanze del mondo latinoamericano ritorna spesso nelle pagine 
del libro, ed é naturale che sia cosi; ogni viaggio degno di questo nome ha sempre 
teso, infatti, a tradursi nel racconto di se stesso. D’altra parte, uno scenario 
appropriato a usanze e a costumi introduce un imperativo di antica tradizione accolto 


34. Cfr. G. Arciniegas, Roma secretisima (Salamanca, Anaya, 1972). 


482 ANNUNZIATA O. CAMPA 


nei tempi moderni. 

Arciniegas, sospinto in tutto il corso del volume dal desiderio di penetrare il 
senso del passato, al di 14 delle bellezze naturali, delle annotazioni di colore, 
infoltisce la sua memoria di aneddoti, di personaggi e di memorabili connotazioni 
storiche. 

Sara appena sufficiente menzionare il singolare episodio di installazione 
dell’obelisco in Piazza San Pietro, per incarico di papa Sisto V nel 1586, che 
Arciniegas rimembra con acutezza aneddotica nel capitolo “Acqua alle corde!” 

Nel periplo italico di German Arciniegas, /talia, guia para vagabundos si 
configura come il palesarsi dell’animo e delle emozioni di un intellettuale che sa 
condensare esperienze e aneddoti. E anche un dialogo protratto e intertestuale con 
una nazione, con lo spirito del suo popolo e con 1 suoi protagonisti del passato e 
coevi. Una realta che gli consente di addentrarsi nella contemporaneita e di scoprimme 
la dimensione storica e culturale. 


Universita degli Studi, Pisa 


JANE ROBINSON 


“With Foreigners Alone”: 
Some British Women Travellers in Italy 
during the 15th to the 19th Centuries 


In Italy ... for the first time in my life I found myself with foreigners alone 
({Selina Martin], Narrative of a Three Years’ Residence in Italy, 1828) 


Before I knew any better, I thought that the only British women who went to Italy 
and wrote about it before the 20th century were mere tourists. Their books, 
derived from self-conscious letters home and prettily-kept journals, were designed 
to reflect as much on the author as her subject: Italy was the most fashionable of 
destinations, after all. And the sort of woman who wrote these books was, I 
assumed, bound to be somewhat lacking in originality simply because she chose 
to follow the route of the old Grand Tour. These women must be possessed of 
a great deal more money than sense, I scoffed, to be treading such a depressingly 
well-worn path. 

It is undeniable that Italy has had its fair share of twittering tourists: one has 
only to read the works (long out of print) of such as Mary Boddington,’ Marianne 
Colston,” Elizabeth Sewell,’ or Mrs Staley* to be convinced of this. But then 
it has more than its fair share of attractions, too, and once British women had 
gained the confidence (typically by the mid-nineteenth century) to travel without 
a male chaperone—nor even, on occasions, a female one—it was surely natural 
for them to choose a destination so familiar (artistically and historically, as well 
as topographically) and inviting as Italy. Besides, it was full of Britons passing 
through or temporarily resident, anyway: Italy was both seemly and safe. What 
more could the discerning lady traveller desire? 

I should not have been so naive. Once I started reading some of these 


1. [Mary Boddington], Slight Reminiscences of the Rhine, Switzerland, and a Corner of 
Italy (London, 1834). 


2. Marianne Colston, Journal of a Tour in France, Switzerland, and Italy, during the Years 
1819, 20 and 21] (Paris, 1822, and London, 1823). 


3. [Elizabeth Sewell], Impressions of Rome, Florence, and Turin (London, 1862). 


4. [Mrs Staley], Autumn Rambles: or, Fireside Recollections of . . . The Italian Lakes 
. . . by A Lady (Rochdale, 1863). 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


484 JANE ROBINSON 


travellers’ work, in the course of compiling a world-wide biographical and 
bibliographical dictionary of women travellers,’ it soon became obvious that 
although Italy did appear to attract a particular sort of traveller, she was certainly 
not the twitterer I had supposed. 

The first British woman to have written of her visit to Italy was Margery 
Kempe’ (ca. 1373-ca. 1440), who waited for thirteen weeks in Venice on her way 
from Yarmouth on the east coast of England for a passage to the Holy Land in 
1413; she also spent the Christmas of 1414 and Easter of the following year in 
Rome. God had sent her to Italy, she said, for the sake of her ‘ghostly helth’; once 
there He tried her sorely with the dual afflictions of unsympathetic companions 
(who were, it must be said, just as afflicted by Margery’s almost constant wailing 
and gnashing of teeth, or what she called her ‘holy cryings’), and of unscrupulous 
businessmen, who duped and swindled the more credulous of their visitors at every 
turn. 

Margery was unusual in two respects: firstly, she travelled as an independent 
woman, leaving her husband, whom she came to regard as a temptation—regretfully 
not quite resistible—put in her way by those battling over her soul; secondly, she 
made sure that a record survived of her journeys, dictating her memoirs to a monk 
in accordance, she said, with God’s instructions. It was a good while before any 
of her countrywomen followed her example in these two respects. 

One of those who did was the dramatist Mariana Starke (ca. 1762-1838). 
Although born in England, Mariana grew up in India, where her father became 
the governor of Fort St George, and where two of her best-received plays were 
set. In 1791 Mariana retired from the literary stage to accompany a sick friend 
to Italy, and it was this journey, and those made once she had arrived, that formed 
the basis of her second and more illustrious career. Pre-dating the ubiquitous Herr 
Baedeker, and inspiring the series of travel guides that made the publisher John 
Murray’s name, Mariana’s books were soon considered indispensable by any 
traveller (not just women) to Italy: the were so very useful. Her first vade mecum, 
Letters from Italy, between the Years 1792 and 1798 ... (London, 1800), started 
off conventionally enough, but then developed, with a section ‘pointing out the 
matchless Works of Art which still embellish Pisa, Florence, Siena, Rome ...’ and 
a hefty appendix ‘for the Use of Invalids and Families Who may not choose to incur 
the Expence attendant upon travelling with a Courier.’ She became her readers’ 
cicerone, offering suggestions not just confined to the usual problems of where to 
stay, what to see (and when to see it) and what to avoid (and how to avoid it), but 
on more arcane matters, too. Iam prepared to bet that hers was the first ever book 


5. Wayward Women (Oxford University Press, 1990). 


6. The Book of Margery Kempe (1436). A Modern Version by W. Butler-Bowdon [et al.] 
(London, 1936). 


Some British Women Travellers in Italy 485 


in the English language to advise that the best stay-maker in Italy lives at Pisa; he 
charges Pisans 25 pauls a pair of stays, but demands considerably more of 
foreigners.’ 

Twenty years after Letters from Italy first appeared, Mariana published a much 
expanded guide-book entitled Travels on the Continent: Written for the Use and 
Particular Information of Travellers (London, 1820), whose title was changed in 
1824 to Information and Directions for Travellers in the Continent. This was even 
more successful than the Italian book, and ran to many editions, both authorised 
and pirated. And so the guidebook, as we know it, was born. And all because 
an English gentlewoman agreed to accompany her ailing friend to Italy. So much 
for the twittering tourists of my imagination. 

Something Mariana probably did well to exclude from her ‘information and 
directions’ was the great welter of gothic attractions that Italy was presumed to 
offer the impressionable female visitor. During the years around the turn of the 
eighteenth century there is scarcely a travel book that fails to mention some thrilling 
encounter with the dazzingly dismal, or the dead. Ever since Anne Radcliffe (1764- 
1823)—a lady traveller herself—published the wildly successful novels The 
Mysteries of Udolpho (1794) and The Italian (1797), the more daring and able (i.e., 
affluent) of her lady readers were delightedly adding the pursuit of the melodramat- 
ic to their list of Italian amusements. The glamorous Marguerite, Countess of 
Blessington (1789-1849), whose faintly languorous account The Idler in Italy 
(London, 1839-1840) did much to popularize the Grand Tour amongst ‘women of 
quality,’ was particularly affected by something she encountered while riding by 
the sea at Oneglia, on her way to meet Lord Byron. 


The track often descends to the sandy beach, on which a very narrow portion is 
left uncovered by the briny element, that bathes the feet of the mules, two only 
of which can pass abreast on the sand. On traversing just such a spot as this 
described, to-day, a human skull was thrown between my mule’s feet, by the 
waves. The place where this incident occurred was peculiarly wild and pictur- 
esque, and well accorded with the reflections hich this poor wreck of mortality 
was so calculated to excite. A range of rocks rose to a stupendous height on the 
left, excluding the view of every object but the sky; while to the right, the sea 
was spread out, leaving only a space of sand uncovered at the base of the rocks, 
sufficient to admit one mule to pass at a time. When the skull was thrown between 
the feet of my mule, it snorted, started, and nearly unseated me; and I confess 
I was nearly as much startled by the sombre apparition as the animal I rode. How 
many fanciful conjectures presented themselves to my mind relative to the being 
to whom this skull had belonged! The most probable seemed that the individual 
had fallen victim to some storm, and that the action of the ocean and its inhabit- 
ants had dismembered and decapitated the trunk. And this poor empty case, which 
now retains only the form of humanity, a casket rifled of all that made its worth, 
had been cared for, fondly loved, and tenderly pillowed on a mother’s breast: a 
wife’s too, perchance has sustained it, who little dreamed that countless waves 


486 JANE ROBINSON 


would sweep over it, and that monsters of the sea would banquet on it! What sharp 
agony may have shot through the brain it once contained, on seeing the approach 
of death from which there was no hope of escape! The eye balls, that once filled 
these empty sockets, had glared in the fearful throes of nature, shrinking from 
the presence of the king of terrors. ... 

Vainly, ah! how vainly has the return of this poor sufferer been expected and 
desired! Far from home, the victim’s remains are scattered o’er the deep. ... An 
all-wise Providence, knowing our weakness, has mercifully shut the book of fate 
from our sight; for who could bear to look forward, and see in dread array the 
ills we are doomed to undergo! 


Who indeed? Surely tourism had never been so elegantly exciting before? 
And where else might a cultured woman—Lady, rather—be allowed to be so 
passionate than in Italy? Passion was its culture. That was something the literary 
luminary Lady Mary Wortley Montagu (1689-1762) had gleefully discovered in 
her relationship with the poet and dandy Francesco Algarotti, whom she met in 
London in 1738. Six months later she left her home in Venice, ostensibly in search 
of health but really to follow this paramour who had utterly captured her fifty year- 
old heart. Algarotti managed to avoid her for two years, during which time she 
rented lodgings on the Grand Canal and toured to Rome and Naples. After their 
eventual reunion (which was an embarrassing anticlimax) Lady Mary was not as 
disappointed as she had feared: Italy itself, by then, had wooed her (and won) and 
she settled there until 1761, the year before her death. 

Perhaps I should at this point include just one of those ‘twittering tourists’ I 
mentioned at the beginning of this piece. I still maintain that there must have been 
legions of such furbelowed females fluttering around the country, especially during 
the nineteenth century, when that pioneer of package holidays Mr Thomas Cook 
was so successfully marketing his new conducted tours of Rome. I came across 
this passage recently: 


I could not sleep for knowing myself in the Eternal City and towards dawn I got 
up, scoured myself, and cleaned myself from the dust of so many days, and as 
soon as it was daylight (forgive an ancient fool who found herself for the first 
time ... inthe land of Rome), I went out, and I almost ran till 1 came to St Peter’s. 
I would not look to the right or left (I know I passed through the Piazza Navona), 
till I came to the Colonnades, and there was the first ray of the rising sun just 
touching the top of the fountain. ... The dome was much smaller than I expected. 
But that enormous Atrio. I stopped under it, for my mind was out of breath, to 
recover its strength before I went in. No event in my life, except my death, can 
ever be greater than that first entrance into St Peter’s. ... I could not have gone 
there for the first time except alone, no, not in the company of St Peter himself.’ 


7. Florence Nightingale, Florence Nightingale in Rome: Letters Written . . . in Rome in 
the Winter of 1847-1848, ed. by Mary Keele (Philadelphia, 1981). 





Some British Women Travellers in Italy 487 


The swooning sense of passion is there, and all the heightened sensibilities I used 
to associate with lady travellers to Italy. Except that this is no mere lady: this is 
Florence Nightingale (1820-1910), one of the strongest women in British history, 
visiting the country (incidentally) of her birth. 

British Lady travellers have always suffered somewhat from overgeneralisation. 
While their mascot remains the figure of an intrepid Victorian spinster, wearing 
black silk bonnet and bustle, button-boots, and vigorously prodding the ends of 
the earth with her parasol and a vaguely disapproving air, everyone knows that 
in reality all the medieval ones were either peasant witches or amoral aristocrats 
(and that includes the nuns); all Augustan ones were pampered whores with bulging 
brown eyes or else vituperative intellectuals; and the Victorian matron was 
invariably either small and submissive or large and indomitable. I should know 
better by now, but have to admit to the occasional irresistible (and obvious) urge 
to categorise them, too. But if my ‘twittering tourist’ theory has proven wrong, 
then how about the idea that Italy only attracts strong, independent women like 
Kempe, Starke, Blessington, Wortley Montagu, and Nightingale, for whom it 
becomes a sort of spiritual home? They all seem to be enchanted by it in one way 
or another. 

Well actually, they don’t. I hate to sound ungracious, but there are quite as 
many travel books written by women visiting Italy and dwelling on its perceived 
drawbacks—defects, even—as there are eulogies to its exquisite and fashionable 
pleasures. Fora start, there is the weather, traditionally supposed to be preternatu- 
rally bright and balmy. Mrs Ethel Brilliana Tweedie (d. 1940), writing in 1904, 
knew otherwise: 


One never knows the real miseries of foreign hotels until a wet day comes, and 
then those doubtful joys are showered down as thickly as rain from heaven. 

One rises to open the French window and look out, but unexpectedly steps into 
a puddle of water which has crept in below the window-frame in the night, and 
seductively found its way across the marble floor. Even the bit of mat beside the 
bed is wet, the floor is wet, everything is wet. Cold damp mist and rain enter the 
room, and chilled to the bone, with cold, wet toes, one hops back into bed again. 
... Abroad for sunshine indeed! Where is King Sol? Abroad for discomfort and 
misery seems the theme. ...*® 


Mrs Dalkeith Holmes (d. 1857) would agree. She was the anonymous author 
of A Ride on Horseback to Florence [from Liverpool!] through France and 
Switzerland ... (1842), which includes the following description of her arrival in 
a storm at an inn just over the Italian border: 


The landlady signified that it was now her pleasure to conduct me to my chamber, 


8. Mrs Alec Tweedie, Sunny Sicily: Its Rustics and Its Ruins (London, 1904). 


488 JANE ROBINSON 


therefore with due docility I followed through the kitchen ... and up another break- 
neck flight, at the top of which was a closet with two beds, over a part of the 
before-named kitchen, therefore reaping the full benefit of its merriment, and 
disputes, and tobaccoed air. 

She first informed me, that one bed only could be placed at my disposal, as 
other travellers might arrive; and when I objected to this arrangement, named with 
great coolness the price she, as monarch of the mountain, had assigned to it, it 
being her best apartment, chosen per rispetto per me. | said very politely, being 
in awe of her, that I thought her terms high. ... In reply to this she said she had 
no time to listen to my conversation, and I had better make my mind up; adding 
I suppose by way of aiding me in the effort, “E’ /a il torrente; si prende o si 
lascia” — “Take it or leave it, there is the torrent”; and as this was very true, 
I resigned myself, for there indeed was the torrent, roaring below like a wild beast 
before his fatal bound. ... 

I asked my aimiable companion for some hot water, wishing to neutralize 
the effect of the cold baths I had undergone in the course of my day’s travel, to 
which she said, “A ché serve?” and that she could not attend to whims; and when 
my patience, long on the wane, deserted me, sent me some by her squinting 
brother, in a broken coffee cup, so that seeing the remedy I had meditated was 
not attainable, I drank it. 


Never mind the weather fora moment: how about the unparalleled opportuni- 
ties for sight-seeing to lift the spirits? “To me a love of the fine arts had become 
a source of great relief, even of much enjoyment,” says one Janet Robertson (fl. 
1840-1856) during a stay in Florence in the early 1840s. But she continues slightly 
less encouragingly: 


I was physically weak, and without having any positive malady, never felt well; 
the heats of the summer exhausted me, and the wintry winds from the icy 
mountains, had a withering influence on my feeble frame. When books fatigued 
my attention, or pained my feelings, and my work fell unfinished from my languid 
hand, as I sank back in my chair in a dreamy state of mournful retrospection of 
the past, my taste for the fine arts stepped in to solace and sustain me. ... O 
music! O painting! precious is the balm you impart to the wretched! and 
benignant the influence you exercise on the human mind! 

I must own, however, that some of the most highly esteemed chefs-d’oeuvres 
of the galleries did not attract me.° 


Frances Elliot (fl. 1870-1893), touring Italy in 1870, was more forthright. 


I like Rome less than either Florence of Venice ... mais voyons, I have not been 
here a week yet. It is sad, however, to find imperial Rome only a third-rate 
modern city! ... It presents a strange medley of the grand, the beautiful, the rich, 
the great, with dirt, ugliness, squalor, and vulgarity. I have seen St. Peter’s, and, 


9. Janet Robertson, Lights and Shades on a Traveller’s Path... (London, 1851). 





Some British Women Travellers in Italy 489 


truth to say, am sorely disappointed! To arrive there, I passed through some of 
the vilest streets I ever traversed. ... The dirt, the filthy population, the crowds 
of soldiers, the street-side kitchens, where fish, flesh, fowl, and fruit are all frying 
in the open air, form so disgusting an ensemble, that one feels almost ashamed 
of being seen on foot in such a bear-garden."° 


Lady Phillippina Knight (1726-1797), even though she was travelling almost a 
century before Mrs. Elliot, would have understood her shame: 


The Italians are, I believe, a very worthless set of people, but very few worth 
knowing. The ladies dress most horridly, like strolling players, and have as many 
shining stones about them as waxworks. ... We are obliged to be very careful with 
[them], as not one in ten are what we could wish."! 


Something is beginning to shine with disquieting clarity (for a British author 
like me, at any rate) by now. Perhaps it is not Italy that is the problem at all, but 
her visitors? Because there is one thing that would seem to unite all the women 
I have mentioned in this piece: each has an unshakeable sense of being, as Selina 
Martin (fl. 1828-1840) put it, “with foreigners alone.” Not matter how well she 
ascimilates with the culture and even the people, or how short she knows her stay 
will be; not matter how familiarly grey the weather is, or, on the other hand, how 
beguiling the art, history and look of the place may be, something about travelling 
to Italy seems with surprising frequency to evoke an air of loneliness, isolation 
even, in the breast of the British woman abroad. It is hardly wonderful that Lady 
Phillippina and her ilk felt it: such arrogance deserves no better (as the notorious 
Lady Sydney Morgan found’”). But that someone as open-minded and liberal as 
Lady Mary Wortley Montagu should find things to censure in her adopted land is, 
at first, surprising. In a letter written at Genoa in 1759 to her daughter, she 
professes herself almost shocked at some of the customs she has witnessed. 


I find you have many wrong notions of Italy, which I do not wonder at. You can 
take your ideas of it only from books or travellers; the first are generally antiquat- 
ed or confined to trite observations, and the other yet more superficial; they return 
no more instructed than they might have been at home, by the help of a map. ... 
[A] very long stay, a diligent enquiry, and a nice observation are requisite even 
to a moderate degree of knowing a foreign country, especially here, where they 
are naturally reserved. France indeed is more easily seen through; the French 
always talking of themselves, and the government being the same, there is little 
difference from one province to another; but, in Italy, the different laws make 


10. Frances Elliot, Diary of an Idle Woman in Italy (London, 1871). 


11. Lady Philippina Knight, Lady Knight’s Letters from France and Italy, 1776-1795, ed. 
by Lady Elliott-Drake (London, 1905). 


12. Lady Sydney Morgan’s books France and Italy, each whole-heartedly lambasting its 
subject, caused a furore on the continent on their publication in 1817 and 1821 respectively. 


490 JANE ROBINSON 


different customs and manners. There are many things very particular here, from 
the singularity of government; some of which I do not care to touch upon, and 
some are still in use here, though obsolete in almost all other places, as the estates 
of all the great families, being unalienable, as they were formerly in England. 
This would have made them very potent, if it were not balanced by another law, 
that divides whatever land the father dies possessed of among all the sons, the 
eldest having no advantage ... with a train of consequences you may imagine. 
But I cannot let pass in silence the prodigious alteration ... in regard to our sex. 
This reformation (or, if you please, depravation) begun so lately as the year 1732, 
when the French over-run this part of Italy, but it has been carried on with such 
fervor and success, that the Italians go far beyond their patterns, the Parisian 
ladies, in the extent of their liberty. I am not so much surprized at the women’s 
conduct, as | am amazed at the men’s sentiments. Jealousy, which was a nice 
point of honour among them, is exploded to that degree, that it is become the most 
infamous and ridiculous of all characters; and you cannot more affront a gentle- 
man, than to suppose him capable of it. Divorces are also introduced, and 
frequent enough they have long been in Genoa; several of the finest and greatest 
ladies there having two husbands alive." 


Of course, there are somewhat special circumstances in several of the cases 
I have come across. The Welsh girl Catherine Davies’ (ca. 1774-ca. 1884), for 
instance, who found herself appointed governess to the children of Napoleon 
Bonaparte’s brother-in-law General Murat, during the turbulent years between the 
Peace of Amiens in 1802 and the siege of Naples (by the British) in 1809." 
Murat was created King of Naples in 1805, the same year Bonaparte declared 
himself Emperor, whereupon Catherine’s household moved to Italy form France; 
she loved the children and their mother Caroline dearly, but by the time Catherine 
had managed to escape Naples aboard HMS Tremendous, having survived the 
seventeen-day siege in what was now dangerously alien territory, she was glad to 
be away. As Lady Knight sagely put it, “travelling in time of war is not conve- 
nient.” 

The circumstances of young Harriet Campell (1803-1848) were, thankfully, 
less dramatic, yet she was just as pleased to leave Italy as Catherine must have 
been. Harriet’s problem involved the complicated and distracting love-lives of her 
sister and (more dismayingly) her mother, with whom, as a fourteen year-old 
ingénue, she travelled. It is only to be expected, I suppose, that the sister should 
acquire a husband in this most romantic of countries, but it proves too much for 
the neglected Harriet when her mother does the same, and the fresh and charming 


13. Lady Wortley Montagu, Letters ... Written during her Travels in Europe, Asia and 
Africa ... (London, 1763). 


14. She wrote an account of her experiences in Eleven Years’ Residence in the Family of 
Murat (London, 1841). 





Some British Women Travellers in Italy 491 


journal she kept during the trip'* comes to an abrupt end when she decides that, 
thanks to the influences of Italy, she can never be happy again. 

The cause of such depression is less obvious amongst other travellers. No 
doubt the flamboyance of Roman Catholicism had something to do with it. Selina 
Martin, who spent three years in Italy as companion to her sister, seems to have 
been terrified of it. The Carnival celebrations she denounced as “ridiculous 
buffooneries” enacted by a “triumph of fools,” whose religion was not only deeply 
distasteful, but dangerous too. “And is it possible to dwell amongst them,” she 
wondered dubiously, “without catching some contamination?” Poor Selina had 
other problems, too. Not only her sister but her favorite niece and her brother-in- 
law all became ill, the former surviving to make the shattered journey home with 
Miss Martin in 1821, but the two latter having to be abandoned in exiled graves 
in Rome. Selina closed her mournful account of her stay in Italy with the following 
observations: 


As I journey towards my native land, I cannot help remarking, with regret, the 
multitude of carriages filled with English, (of course I mean by that term to 
include the Irish and Scotch also) who are hurrying from their own pleasant 
shores. ... I cannot help sometimes longing to appeal, and to entreat that before 
they settle themselves abroad, they will reflect, whether, in their case, there are 
not some peculiar, and almost personal objections, to their thus deserting home 


There is, I must allow, something so fascinating in the pleasures which all 
travellers find in this country more particularly, in the contemplation of its 
exquisite scenery, and its classical ruins, and in the freedom which they enjoy 
from many of the restraints of their own country, that I can hardly wonder that 
some, who have not thought enough of their duties at home, or of the dangers 
abroad, are induced to take up their abode here, though, at first, they merely 
intended to make a tour ... but it too frequently happens, that a stay begun with 
this view, is continued till the whole family acquire the habits, tastes, feelings, 
and principles of ... Italy; or till matrimonial connections with foreigners [perish 
the thought] further widen the separation form their English homes.'® 


Mind you, one cannot help wondering whether a Protestant British woman who 
has shown a certain degree of independence by being abroad at all—even in so 
edifying a country as Italy—might not secretly be wishing that all convention be 
thrown to the winds and that she should forget the parish church back home and 
joinin. Paradoxically, such a thing could be easier to do further from home: there 
are plenty of accounts of similar women going (for want of a better term) “native,” 


15. Harriet Charlotte Beaujolois Campbell, A Journey to Florence in 1817, ed. by G. R. 
deBeer (London, 1951). 


16. [Selina Martin], Narrative of a Three Years’ Residence in Italy, 1819-1822 (London, 
1828). 


492 JANE ROBINSON 


and ecstatically so, in the middle East, Arabia and beyond.'’ Perhaps Italy was 
a little too close to home for comfort. And there were too many British there, with 
that unavoidably parochial air that hangs about any crowd of countrymen in a 
foreign land. One can never quite forget oneself in Italy. Even when one 
sportingly recognises the foibles and imperfections of one’s own people, it would 
of course be disloyal not to miss them. 

In the case of Marianne Baillie (c. 1795-1831) such homesickness was almost 
crippling, and even though her tour of Italy in 1818 was a honeymoon trip, one 
feels she welcomed each day only as one less to be spent abroad. On her way from 
Turin to Milan, she actually confessed to being (temporarily) bored by the view 
from the roadside: 


This wearying sameness in the landscape was at length agreeably broken by the 
prospect for a vast common, where the purple heath-flower, with which it was 
entirely covered, wet with dew, gleamed like an amethyst in the morning sun. 
Yet even here, I missed the gay variety of the bright golden broom, which 
invariably is bound upon our commons at home — Home! the term always makes 
my heart throb with pleasure and pride; I know not why, but at that moment its 
idea rose in vivid strength before me, softened and beautified by the colors with 
which memory never fails to adorn a beloved object in absence. I felt (and what 
Englishwoman ought not to feel?) that I could truly exclaim in apostrophizing my 
native country, 

Where’er I go, whatever realms I see, 

My heart, untravell’d, fondly turns to thee. 

And yet, reader, we were no bigots in the cause, for we could discern foreign 
excellence and deeply feel it, and we could perceive where England’s faults lay 
... and wish that they be rectified; and this, I am sorry to say, is not always the 
case with our countrymen, many of whom have listened to all commendations of 
other nations, as if they were so many insults offered to our own ...' 


Such tolerance hardly conforms to the popular image of the Englishwoman 
abroad, but for me, and despite all the different reactions to Italy I have traced 
through the last five centuries, a definite image has emerged. She is not the 
effusive gusher I had suspected her to be, not on some passionate quest for a 
spiritual home; rather—and for a variety of reasons—she is a woman who finds 
herself very much “with foreigners alone” in this most inviting of countries. And, 
judging by the reactions of my “wayward women” all over the world, strangely 
less at home here than almost anywhere. 


Oxford 


17. See Jane Robinson, Wayward Women: A Guide to Women Travellers (Oxford, 1990). 


18. Marianne Baillie, First Impressions of a Tour upon the Continent ... (London, 1819). 





KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


Travel and Translation: The English and Italy 
in the Sixteenth Century 


The relationship between travel to Italy and the production of early Tudor 
translations of Italian Renaissance literature is profound. This intellectual connection 
began, moreover, in a period of ambiguous attitudes towards Italy and Italian 
Renaissance culture. In influential circles at court and the universities, there was 
a growing tendency to demonize Italy and Italians as a consequence of the 
reformation of religion and the anti-papal policies of the Crown. It is therefore 
instructive to begin by rehearsing some impressions of the peninsula made by 
English sixteenth century visitors, all within the space of just a few decades. The 
anti-Italianism begins with Sir John Cheke, the most famous classical scholar in 
England, Regius Professor of Greek at Cambridge, secretary of State to Lady Jane 
Grey and tutor to King Edward vi. He wrote in 1554: 


I am here in a country much esteemed in opinion, indeed not such as a man 
would have guessed it. I am yet unskilful thereof and therefore cannot judge 
certainly without rashness, else to judge at the first sight I would say that neither 
for private order, nor yet common behaviour it is anything to our own barbarous 
supposed country. Courtesans in honour, haunting of evil houses noble, breaking 
of marriage a sport, murder in gentleman magnaminity, robbery finesse if it be 
clean conveyed, for the spying is judged the fault and not the stealing, religion 
to be best that best agreeth with Aristotle’s De Anima, the common tenant, though 
not in kind of tenancy, marvellously kept bare, the gentleman nevertheless yet 
barer that keepeth him so; in speech cautious, in deed scarce, more liberal in 
asking than in giving. They say the farther we go into Italy, the worse.! 


Next, there is Roger Ascham’s sententiousness in The Scolemaster (1570). Ascham 
was Cheke’s prize pupil at St John’s Cambridge and held various positions in which 
scholarship was a requisite, including perhaps the tutorship to the Princess Eliza- 
beth. He was also in Italy as secretary to the embassy of Sir Richard Morison in 
1551. He fulminated: 


And yet ten Morte Arthures do not the tenth part so much harm, as one of these 
books made in Italy and translated in England. They open not fond and common 
ways to vice but such subtle, cunning, new and diverse shifts to carry young wills 


1. Public Record Office, SP 69/4 no. 240 (22 July 1554). 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


494 KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


to vanity and young wits to mischief, to teach old bawds new school points, as 
the simple head of an Englishman is not able to invent, nor ever was heard of in 
England before, yea when papistry overflowed all. Suffer these books to be read 
and they shall soon displace all books of godly learning. For they, carrying the 
will to vanity and marring good manners, shall easily corrupt the mind with ill 
opinions and false judgement in doctrine: first to think ill of all true religion and 
last to think not of God himself, one special point that is to be learned in Italy 
and Italian books... That Italian that first invented the Italian proverb against our 
English men Italianated meant no more their vanity in living, than their lewd 
opinion in religion: for in calling them devils he carrieth them clean from God 
and yet he carrieth them no farther than they willingly go themselves, that is, 
where they may freely say their minds to open contempt of God and all godliness, 
both in living and doctrine.” 


Ascham had indeed seen Italy himself and noted that he saw in one city (Venice) 
in just 9 days more inclination to vice than he saw in London in 9 years. 

William Harrison, who provided the “Description of England” for Hollinshed’s 
Chronicles of 1577, wrote: 


One thing only I misslike in them [English students] and that is their usual going 
into Italy, from whence very few without special grace do return good men, 
whatsoever they pretend of conference or practice, chiefly the physicians—so much 
may also be inferred of lawyers—who under pretence of seeking foreign simples 
do often times learn the framing of such compositions as were better unknown 
than practised...[I]t is most true what Dr Turner said: ‘Italy is not to be seen 
without a guide, that is, without special grace given from God because of the 
licentious and corrupt behaviour of the people’ .* 


These diatribes could be continued at some length, but allow just two more in order 
to reinforce what should be by now a clear impression of English fears and little 
English horror at Italy. William Moorecroft was a well-travelled, educated 
Protestant, tutor to the son of Sir William Cecil, who spent time in Italy in 1567. 
He recorded his impressions: 


Every country hath its fashion of vice: as...the Italian in whoring, that I say no 
worse of them, every which vice with every of these are counted small or no 
offence, because they are after the fashion (as great hose be with us) and according 
to the custom of the country...[I] will never prefer the painted formality of the 
Italians to the German’s integrity and tasting the cheese potage, cheese puddings 
and cheese tarts of Italy will not misslike the sup or brose of Germany. None 
shall like Italy unless he be Italizate (sic), and the proverb says Anglus italizatus 


2. R. Ascham, The Schoolmaster, ed. J. Mayor (London, 1863), p. 82. 


3. W. Harrison in Holinshed’s Chronicles, ed. C. Eliot (New York, 1910), 398-9. For Dr. 
William Turner, see K.R. Bartlett, The English in Italy, 1525-1558: A Study in Culture and 
Politics (Geneva: Slatkine, 1991), pp. 51-54. 





Travel and Translation: The English and Italy 495 


demon incarnatus and so also say the French and Germans of their country- 
men...The hills are woodless, the sea fishless, the women shameless and the men 
graceless...* 


Finally, although it was printed only at the end of the century, despite the pastiche 
of events covered which dated from the reign of Henry Vil, there remains perhaps 
the most offensive of the anti-Italian statements committed to writing in Tudor 
England. Thomas Nashe puts into the mouth of an English expatriate, an interlocu- 
tor of the picaresque hero, Jack Wilton, the most quotable opprobrium of the 
peninsula: 


Italy, the paradise of the earth and the epicure’s heaven, how doth it form our 
young master? It makes him to kiss the hand like an ape, cringe his neck like a 
starveling, and play at hey passe repass come aloft, when he salutes a man. From 
thence he brings the art of atheism, the art of epicurizing, the art of whoring, the 
art of poisoning, the art of sodomitry. The only probable good thing that they have 
to keep us from utterly condemning it is that it maketh a man an excellent 
courtier, a curious carpet-knight; which is, by interpretation, a fine close lecher, 
a glorious hypocrite. It is now a privy note amongst the better sort of men, when 
they would set a singular mark or brand on a notorious villain, to say, he hath 
been to Italy.° 


Such is the record of English denunciations of Italy during the middle or later 
decades of the sixteenth century. Moreover, there are other equally celebrated 
examples, such as Matthew Parker’s destruction of the character of Reginald Pole 
in his De Antiquitate ecclesiae britannicae in which Queen Elizabeth’s cousin and 
Mary’s Archbishop of Canterbury declined “from an Englishman to an Italian, from 
a Christian to a papist...a great and monstrous metamorphosis contrary to both 
human and divine nature”?® Although this rehearsal of negative opinion might 


4. Calendar of State Papers: Foreign, Elizabeth, VIII, no. 897 (1 January 1567). 


5. Thomas Nashe, The Unfortunate Traveller, ed. R. Ashley and E. Moseley, in Elizabethan 
Fiction (New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1965), p. 285. 


6. Matthew Parker, De antiquitate Britannicae Ecclesiae et nominatin De Privilegiis 
Ecclesiae Cantuariensis atque de Archiepiscopis eiusdem Lxx Historia (Hanover: Wechel, 
1605), p. 346. The complete original reads in context: “Que exposito solus Polus ad 
interiorem Papz familiaritatem, ipsumque palatium, quia Anglorum insidias se dixit 
pertinere, rediit infatuatus et tamquam Circzo exhausto poculo ex Anglo in Italum, ex 
Christiano in ponticum conversus. Omitto his quid ab ipsis italis de nostratibus ad eos 
mutatis dici soleat, quantum et quam monstrosam Metamorphosim, et non modo contra 
humanam speciam ac naturam sed contra divinam eam esse fingunt... At illa (credo), 
simplicitas primo ut in Anglo recta ingenuaque fuit, sed cum diuturna Romane gentis 
consuetudine versutias eas calluisset, naturalis probitatis externam atque adumbratam retinuit 
speciem, dissimulationis vero atque fraudis vitium consueudine contractum imo pectore 
fotum occultavit..” It is important to note that Parker has remarked in the margin: “Anglus 
Italianatus Diabolus incarnatus”. 


496 KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


have continued for some considerable time, the point should now be clear. 

English opinions of Italy were anything but uniformly positive. Even before 
the Henrician reformation, with the royal supremacy and the break from Rome, 
English attitudes towards Italy had been ambiguous. The English resented paying 
papal taxes, including the special levies like Peter’s Pence, which they believed 
took bullion out of the Kingdom and enriched their enemies, especially during the 
Hundred Years’ War when the Babylonian Captivity and subsequent Great Schism 
had one pope resident in Avignon, often in close allegiance to the King of France. 
Equally, the role of Italian merchants and bankers made the Italian a symbol of 
extortion, one capitalized upon brilliantly by Edward IM in the repudiation of his 
royal debts in the 1340s, bringing down thereby the great Florentine houses of the 
Bardi and Peruzzi and occasioning the collapse of European credit, a collapse 
mitigated only through the intervention of the Black Death. Memories of the 
humiliation of King John by the pope and the appeal of Praemunire and Provisors 
stirred English blood; and the legitimate horror at the circumstances of the Hunne 
case which again appeared to portray the Roman church and its courts with its 
Italianate practices as wicked, bloody and extortionate helped not a little to propel 
the Reformation.’ 

It is not an accident, then, that there were no significant translations from the 
Italian into English between Chaucer and Sir Thomas Wyatt: for over a century, 
the two peoples lived in relative ignorance of one another, at least in terms of 
vernacular literature, and this at a time when the Renaissance was being established 
inthe peninsula. Only with the printing of Wyatt’s version of Aretino’s Penitential 
Psalms (1549) did contemporary Italian culture enter the English imagination; but 
once it was there it became a powerful vehicle, even if suspect and feared for 
reasons of religion, morality and particularism.® 

Even with the appearance of English translations of Italian literary works in 
the 1530s, though, the field was sparse. Sir Thomas Wyatt the Elder, who knew 
Italy very well, made paraphrase translations from Petrarch’s Canzoniere, as did 
Henry Howard, ill-fated Earl of Surrey, who must to a degree be identified with 
Nashe’s noble master of Jack Wilton on the continent, even if there is no evidence 
that Surrey ever saw the Alps. There was Wyatt’s moving translations of the 
Psalms of Aretino and a number of important and interesting aristocratic versions 
of Renaissance literature by nobles who never intended to print their work but who 


7. Richard Hunne, a London merchant, was found hanged in a jail cell in 1514, murdered, 
it was later learned, by agents of the Bishop of London against whom he had filed suit. See 
A.G. Dickens, The English Reformation (London: Collins, 1964), pp. 131 sqq. 


8. To be absolutely correct, there was one interesting Italian work translated from the 
original into English: a treatise on dice, II libro delle sorte made as a joke for Thomas More 
by William Lyly, Colet’s St Paul’s schoolmaster. This, though, was only a jeu d’esprit and 
in itself links a vice—gaming—with Italy. 


Travel and Translation: The English and Italy 497 


saw translating as a civilised past-time or as a route to favour. 

Henry Parker, Lord Morley, made many manuscript translations as New Year’s 
gifts for Henry vill. One of these, his version of Petrarch’s Trionfi, was ultimately 
printed in the 1550s under very unusual conditions which I have exhausted 
elsewhere in print.? But in the reign of the first two Tudors, he was content to 
stay as an aristocratic dilettante. He was, though, the vehicle through whom 
Thomas Cromwell was introduced to the work and thought of Machiavelli. Also, 
Edward Courtenay, Earl of Devon, son of the attainted and executed Marquis of 
Exeter and scion of the White Rose of York, managed to learn Italian while in the 
Tower where he spent most of his life as a consequence of the Tudor fear of 
Plantagenet blood. Courtenay was in so many ways an unsympathetic, cowardly 
and despicable young man; but he was a rather gifted translator who turned his 
Italian lessons (probably by the Italian tutor of Princess Elizabeth, Giovanni-Battista 
Castiglione) into an English version of the Italian spirituale text of the Valdés circle 
by Benedetto da Mantova, known popularly as the Beneficio di Gesu Cristo 
crocifisso. In an attempt to get out of prison he dedicated this translation to the 
strongly Protestant wife of Edward vi’s Lord protector, the Duke of Somerset. 
It did not work, however: Courtenay was not released until his cousin Mary 
ascended the throne. 

It was nevertheless in this context of traditional English ignorance, distrust 
and increasingly Protestant hostility to Italy that the great monuments of English 
translation from the Italian began. It is curious, then, that the wonderful texts of 
the 1550s which made contemporary Italian Renaissance culture directly available 
to cultivated Englishmen arrived, despite the chilly climate of anti-Italianism, little 
Englandism and anti-papal hysteria. In fact, the true English contact with the Italy 
of the Renaissance begins not with the sonnet sequences of Surrey and Wyatt 
because Petrarch—who died in 1374—had become more of a European commodity 
than an Italian monument by the 1530s. The English intellectual discovery of Italy 
dates from the years immediately around the mid-century; and this connection can 
be attributed in some measure to two celebrated translators, exact contemporaries 
who knew one another well in Italy and travelled together, despite powerful 
differences in class and religion. They were Thomas Hoby, the translator of 
Castiglione’s The Book of the Courtier, and William Barker, the translator of 
Giovanni Battista Gelli and Lodovico Domenichi, although Domenichi’s Nobilita 
delle donne did not see print in his lifetime. What is more, both of these proto- 
translators, true inglesi italianati, as Barker was to hear as an opprobrious accusa- 
tion, left clear impressions of their experience in Italy and what it was which made 


9. See K.R. Bartlett, “The Occasion of Lord Morley’s Translation of the Trionfi: The 
Triumph of Chastity Over Politics,” in A. A. Iannucci, ed., Petrarch’s Triumphs: Allegory 
and Spectacle (Ottawa: Dovehouse, 1990), pp. 325-334. 


498 KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


them so sympathetic to contemporary Italian culture, Hoby in his journal, Barker 
in his prefaces to Domenichi. 

William Barker is recorded in the rather lurid volumes of State Trials edited 
by Edward Murdin as the instrument through which Thomas Howard, fourth Duke 
of Norfolk, was condemned as a consequence of the Ridolfi Plot. Indeed, Barker 
was identified by Norfolk in his defence as an “italianified Englishman”'° indicat- 
ing he was not to be believed or trusted; he was, after all, un diavolo incarnato. 
(Interestingly, Norfolk, seeing the value of national slurs, branded his other 
accuser, the Bishop of Ross, a shameless Scot. Neither pejorative worked for him: 
he was taken to the block.) This powerful caricature of Barker has tainted him 
in the eyes of posterity. Indeed, it is quite possible that it was Barker whom 
William Harrison had in mind in his scathing indictment of the Italianate English- 
men found in his “Description of England”.'' Such a fate is unworthy of Barker, 
though, because of his significance as one of the earliest Tudor translators of Italian 
literature, an important collector of classical inscriptions, and a proponent of 
humanist education, including the celebration of learned women. 

Although born about 1520 into a humble family, Barker was sent to St. John’s 
College, Cambridge, through the patronage of the Protestant Anne Boleyn, and 
received his M.A. in 1540.’ Barker may well have enjoyed a fellowship at St 
John’s or entered the household of a wealthy student as tutor. However, despite 
his probable continuing in some form of studies at Cambridge in the early 1540s, 
it is evident that Barker remained a Roman Catholic. 

It was consequently the radical policies of the Reformation under Edward vI 
(1547-53) which motivated Barker to seek refuge in Italy. It is, however, difficult 
to identify the date of his arrival on the continent. In October 1551 his partial 
translation of Xenophon’s Cyropaideia was dedicated to Sir William Herbert.'* 
Barker styled Herbert in his dedication as Earl of Pembroke, although that title was 
not bestowed upon him until 11 October 1551. Nevertheless, Barker is recorded 
in Italy during the autumn of 1549 as a member of Thomas Hoby’s party which 
set out from Siena to travel to Rome and Naples. Consequently, either Barker 
made a brief return to England after October 1551 or his printer, Reynold Wolfe, 


10. Norfolk describes the most damning witnesses against him as “the one [the Bishop of 
Ross] beyng a schamlesse Scote and the other ane Italianfyd Inglyschmane”, quoted in W. 
Murdin, A Collection of State Papers Relating to Affairs in the Reign of Queen Elizabeth 
(London: William Bowyer, 1759), 1, 170 (23 January 1571). 


11. William Harrison, “A Description of England,” in Hollinshed’s Chronicles (1577), in 
C. W. Eliot, ed., Chronicle and Romance (New York, 1910), pp. 398-399. 


12. P. Hasler, ed., The House of Commons, 1558-1603 (London: History of Parliament 
Trust, HMSO, 1981), 1, 396. 


13. Xenophon, The Bookes of Xenophon Contayning the discipline, schole, and education 
of Cyrvs (London: Reynold Wolfe, 15537). 








Travel and Translation: The English and Italy 499 


independently altered the dedication to reflect Herbert’s new title. 

It is impossible to determine whether this translation of Xenophon is directly 
from the Greek, from a later Latin edition or from an Italian version translated by 
Poggio Bracciolini (printed 1521) or by Lodovico Domenichi (1548). It must be 
noted, however, that Barker almost certainly knew Domenichi in Florence and 
would translate into English La Nobilita delle donne (1549).'* Barker was defi- 
nitely in Tuscany in 1549, so it is probable that the translation of the first books 
of the Cyropaideia was from Domenichi’s Italian, even though Barker knew Greek. 
Barker’s subsequent reliance on Domenichi’s version for the completion of his 
translation of the Xenophon text in 1567 points conclusively to his debt to the 
contemporary Florentine text. 

Barker returned to England on the accession of Mary I. The monument to 
his Italian travels was the Epitaphia et inscriptiones lugubres, printed in London 
by John Cawood in 1554.'° The work is a collection of Latin funerary inscriptions 
in the humanist Italian tradition of other travellers such as Pontano. Significantly, 
not all the epitaphs recorded by Barker are ancient: there are recent Roman 
inscriptions and some from Naples are copied from royal tombs. Barker, therefore, 
found interest in contemporary Italy, as did his fellow Cantabrigian and travelling 
companion, Thomas Hoby. 

From the Epitaphia Barker’s itinerary can be determined exactly as he collected 
inscriptions: Rome, Naples, Padua, Venice, Bologna, Florence, Certaldo, Siena, 
Alba Longa, Nola, Chiusi, Aversa, Nocera and Capua. Nothing else besides his 
route, however, can be gathered from this text resulting from his residence in the 
peninsula. However, in another translation, his English version of Giovanni Battista 
Gelli’s dialogues, Barker provides much contextual information about his life in 
Tuscany. He engaged in informal literary studies in Florence where he met Lodo- 
vico Domenichi (d. 1564), whose Nobilita delle donne he was to paraphrase in 
English, probably in Siena. Domenichi’s dialogues were still current, just having 
been printed in Venice in 1549, so Barker could have worked from that text. 
However, his use of Domenichi’s translation of Xenophon’s Cyropaideia for the 
completion of his own translation implies a deeper connection to Domenichi, Duke 
Cosimo’s librarian, and his work. This association probably was the result of 
personal friendship with that leader of Florentine intellectual society. 

Barker’s preface to his English version of Domenichi gives details of Barker’s 
life in Siena, where he settled briefly during his travels through Italy. There is 
never any indication of Barker’s purpose for his Italian sojourn. He was born poor 
and was sent to Cambridge through the patronage of Queen Anne. He probably 


14. L. Domenichi, La Nobilita delle donne (Venice: Giolitti di Ferrara, 1549). 


15. Nocopy of the 1554 edition survives. The edition printed in London by Cawood in 1566 
is the earliest extant version of Barker’s text. 


500 KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


came from Norfolk and later was a servant of the Howards, so they might have 
provided some support. But, there is no evidence concerning the source of 
Barker’s income or of his mission. It is not improbable that he was an intelligen- 
cer, aspy, paid by Norfolk and the Catholic party seeking information or assistance 
from Tuscany, Spain and the papacy. Indeed, it is possible that the Florentine 
connections which later surfaced in the Ridolfi Plot were initiated at this time. 
Despite this possible occupation, the life Barker describes is a civilized—and 
civilizing—moment, surrounded by learned, polished and elegant Italians. To 
Barker, this residence in Siena and at the villa and baths at Petriolo represent a 
perfect idyll of intellectual society in which he might perfect his spoken Italian and 
take part in the discussions on literary themes introduced in his dialogue. 
Barker’s paraphrase of Domenichi’s La Nobilita delle donne was written during 
this period in Siena, at the very end of 1552 or the beginning of 1553. This date 
is secure because Barker’s references to the royal Tudors reflect their conditions 
under Edward vI.'° Thus, despite the dedication of the manuscript text to Queen 
Elizabeth in 1559, A Disputation of the Nobility of Women was written in Italy 
during Barker’s residence in Siena, where he knew Domenichi and had access to 
courtly society in Florence, before Siena fell to Cosimo’s siege of January 1554. 
The preface to The Nobility of Women illustrates the character of English travel 
to Italy in the mid-sixteenth century. It also reflects the knowledge of and interest 
in the foundations of Italian vernacular literature among educated, sophisticated 
English travellers such as Barker. The preface reflects the frame of Boccaccio’s 
Decameron, which Barker certainly knew and respected inasmuch as he records 
that author’s inscription at Certaldo.'’ Equally, there are memories of Castiglio- 
ne’s Cortegiano in the dialogue. Still, much is Barker’s own, reflecting his desire 
to honour the life he led in Italy, even if reinforced by literary and cultural allusion 
and the application of known Italian topoi. Barker praises the learned, courtly 
atmosphere, the “cortese” he experienced in Siena. His patron and friends come 
not from mercantile power, Medici or papal politics but from Tuscan gentry 
families visiting the baths of Petriolo and enjoying the hospitality of the Borghese. 
Barker moves Domenichi’s setting from a court wedding in Milan to Petriolo. 
He also changes the dramatis personae and the date, advancing the dialogue to 1553 
from 1546. Furthermore, Barker introduces himself as a character in his para- 
phrase of the original, producing a sensitive verisimilitude by detailing his own 
travels through Italy before he reaches Siena. The Siena he knows, moreover, is 
a nostalgic and fleeting moment in history caught between the Spanish occupation 


16. W. Barker, The Nobility of Women, ed. R. Warwick Bond (London: Roxburgh Club, 
1904), p. 153. 


17. W. Barker, Epitaphia et inscriptiones lugubres, a Gulielmo Berchero, cum in Italia, 
animi causa, peregrinetur, collecta (London: Cawood, 1566), sig. Eiir. 

















Travel and Translation: The English and Italy 501 


which ended in August 1552 and Duke Cosimo’s siege of January 1554. It was 
this short moment of recaptured freedom which created the world in which Barker’s 
dialogue takes place. The Nobility of Women consequently evokes strong memories 
of Castiglione’s Courtier, which was simultaneously being translated by Barker’s 
earlier travelling companion, Thomas Hoby. 

Barker very probably began his other major translation from the Italian during 
this period as well. This work, a complete version of ten dialogues of Giovanbat- 
tista Gelli’s J capricci del bottaio, printed in Florence in 1549, was conceived in 
Florence where Barker had known of Gelli (1498-1563) as he informs the reader 
in the preface to this translation, The Fearful Fancies of the Florentine Cooper."* 

This collection of dialogues illustrates again Barker’s access to and interest 
in the vernacular literature of contemporary Italy. These dialogues are vigorously 
Florentine, full of wit, anti-clericalism, and commentary on the habits of the time, 
recorded originally by one of the most talented of the poligrafici.'? The English 
is equally idiomatic and racy and proved sufficiently popular to see two printings 
(1568 and 1599). It also indicates that Barker left the aristocratic world of the 
villas of Petriolo and the Grand Ducal library and entered the popular company 
of vernacular wits and “adventurers of the pen”.*” Given his own birth, Barker’s 
attendance on equally low born writers, such as Gelli, indicates an ability to move 
among all strata of Italian contemporary society, either for literary or political 
purposes. 

Barker, then, might have in the 1570s reinforced the strong English anti- 
Italianism of the period following the deposition of Queen Elizabeth, the period 
so pointedly identified with the Italophobia of Ascham, Harrison and Parker’s 
diatribes and subsequently echoed in France through Innocent Gentillet’s Anti- 
Machiavel and the perception of Catherine de’Medici as the ultimate Italian, 
Catholic instrument of evil. However, Barker’s actual residence in Italy was the 
late 1540s and early 1550s, a time when the English distrust of the peninsula was 
only beginning through the still private writings of men like Cheke to his wife, 
represented by the letter quoted above. 

Simultaneously, other, more influential Englishmen—because they saw 
print—were recording quite different and positive views of Italy and Italians, writers 
like William Thomas whose History of Italy (1549) and Italian Grammar (1550) 
made the states of the peninsula and its language readily available to English readers 


18. W. Barker, The Fearfull Fansies of the Florentine Cooper. Written in Toscane, by John 
Baptista Gelli, one of the Free Studie of Florence, and for recreation translated into English 
by W. Barker, pensoso d’altrui (London: Henry Bynneman, 1599), sig. A, 2v-A3r. 


19. See P. Grendler, Critics of the Italian World, 1530-1560: Anton Francesco Doni, Nicolo 
Franco and Ortensio Lando (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1969), pp. 100-101. 


20. Ibid., p. 3. 


502 KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


for the first time. In short, inmid-century, the English characterization could have 
gone either way, despite the events of the Reformation and despite the xenophobia 
of Cheke and Ascham. We must remember, after all, that the ambassador Ascham 
served in Venice in 1551, Sir Richard Morison, was one of the leading italophiles 
of the courts of Henry vill and Edward VI, having received his degree in civil law 
from Padua. And, Morison’s patron, Henry’s chief minister and legislative driver 
of the Reformation, Thomas Cromwell, was himself Italified, having lived many 
years in Italy in the familia of Cardinal Bainbridge and as a merchant’s agent before 
entering the service of Wolsey.”! 

The point to stress, then, is that Barker became an object of disgust and scorn 
only after the Ridolfi Plot revealed his treachery to his master: before that time, 
his Italian experience and training were in fact part of the reason that Norfolk 
employed him as a secretary. His almost idyllic evocation of Italy in the opening 
frame of The Nobility of Women, then, was a real place in the English imagination 
as well, one which he was to help destroy through his subsequent treachery but 
still a true site of perfect happiness in times past. 

If Barker were the only example of a positive view of Italy developing just 
when the English perceptions of the peninsula were being recast following the break 
with Rome and the diplomatic machinations surrounding the Habsburg control of 
the peninsula and the fear of the power of the Roman bishop, he might be seen 
as merely a conservative Roman Catholic, social climbing, dishonourable self- 
seeker—which, indeed he probably was, despite his brilliant gift of translation and 
his instinctive understanding of the nuances of Tuscan life. But there is another, 
more upright figure, Thomas Hoby, the translator of Castiglione’s Courtier, one 
of the most influential texts of the Renaissance. 

Hoby’s contribution to the history of English travel in Italy must be seen, 
however, as well beyond his great translation. He was also one of England’s 
earliest travel writers whose journal reflects a significant vehicle for the growing 
mid-sixteenth century English knowledge of the peninsula and appreciation of Italian 
models of culture. 

Thomas, half-brother of Sir Philip Hoby, a courtier and ambassador to the 
Emperor Charles V, was, like Barker, educated at St. John’s College, Cambridge, 
where he matriculated in 1545. In 1547 he set out for a grand tour of the conti- 
nent. In Strasbourg he followed the lectures of the Italian Protestant divine, Peter 
Martyr Vermigli, and in 1548 met William Thomas, the Italophile author of The 
History of Italy and the Italian Grammar, while Thomas was passing through 
Strasbourg en route from Italy to England. Also, Sir Thomas Wyatt the Elder, 


21. See A. J. Slavin, “The Gutenburg Galaxy and the Tudor Revolution” in G. Tyson et 
al., eds., Print and Culture in the Renaissance (Newark: University of Delaware Press, 
1986), pp. 90-109. 





Travel and Translation: The English and Italy 503 


translator of that pioneering version of Aretino’s Penitential Psalms, visited 
Strasbourg and stopped at the English ambassador’s residence where he encountered 
the Hobys. It was perhaps such contacts which sparked Thomas Hoby’s interest 
in Italian culture and literature. 

Hoby left in August of 1548 for Italy to study at the great University of Padua, 
although he did not register with the rector of the Arts or Law faculties. At the 
studio, Hoby attended the lectures of Lazaro Bonomico, the famous professor of 
humanities and successor to Niccolo Leonico, to polish his Greek and Latin; he 
also engaged in studies with Mantuanus, Turnellus, and Caniolus in civil law, 
Tomitano in logic, and Claudio Tolomei in Italian, a language he had entered Padua 
to perfect. ” 

Hoby left Padua for a grand tour of the peninsula on 7 June 1549, visiting 
Ferrara, Bologna and Florence before setting briefly in Siena where he met William 
Barker. With Barker and other English travellers, Hoby visited Rome to explore 
ancient and modern monuments. Then, in February, 1550, Hoby rode to Naples 
and Sicily, an extremely unusual, and dangerous journey. His travel journal 
records in great detail this remarkable tour. Much of his commentary is based on 
ancient literature but there also appear bits of contemporary history, topography 
and even folklore. His approach, in fact, is almost anthropological and is unique 
among the journals of early Protestant English travellers to Italy. Hoby wanted 
to understand the culture and traditions of the several Italian states he visited and 
to polish his spoken language, even to the point of escaping the company of fellow 
Englishmen so that he might have to function in Italian, although, given the rural 
areas through which he passed, this language must have been more dialect than 
the literary Tuscan he acquired in Padua and Siena. Religion is not discussed, 
despite the improbable folk tales he notes and the miracles of local shrines. In the 
quality of his reporting on Italy, Hoby is curiously open-minded for a gentleman 
of his rank, nation, religion and experience”. 

Hoby is equally significant as a proto-grand tourist because of his recognition 
of the genius of contemporary Italian art. Most travellers followed the classical 
authors on their itineraries. Hoby, however, used a recent, Italian text as his guide, 
Leandro Alberti’s Descrittione di tutta Italia (printed in 1550 and consequently 
acquired during this trip). Hoby’s extensive use of Alberti results in his original 
material merging with the Italian’s into a kind of pastiche of English-Italian 
appreciation of the peninsula.“ Furthermore, Hoby is interested in art sufficiently 


22. Hoby’s itinerary can be found in A Book of the Travels and Life of Me, Thomas Hoby 
BL (Egerton MSS, 2148, ff. 5-182). There is a partial printed edition of Hoby’s journal: 
E. Powell, ed., The Travels and Life of Thomas Hoby, Knight, of Bisham Abbey, Written 
By Himself (London: Camden Society, 1902), Camden Miscellany, 10, series 3. 


23. Travels, ed. Powell, pp. 37-38. 
24. See E. Chaney, “Quo vadis: Travel as Education and the Impact of Italy in the Sixteenth 


504 KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


to remark on the fountain recently completed in Messina by the Florentine sculptor 
Giovanni Angelo Montorsoli, a pupil of Michelangelo. It was perhaps this 
sculpture which served as the inspiration for the fountain Hoby would erect on his 
estate at Bisham in 1563. After a dangerous and lengthy passage by sea across 
the Straits of Messina, Hoby connected with his English companions at Naples and 
returned to Rome on 30 April 1550 only to set out for Siena on 6 May. 

Hoby’s second residence in Siena was of great significance because it was at 
that time he began his translation of Castiglione’s Cortegiano. In Siena Hoby 
returned to his studies which clearly included work on The Courtier.** He also 
kept close company with the small English community in Siena, which including 
Henry Parker (son of that same Lord Morley who had translated Petrarch’s 
Triumphs) and William Barker, who had perhaps travelled with him as far as Sicily 
and back. It is evocative to imagine these two italianate Englishmen, so different 
in background and class, sharing their knowledge and enthusiasm for contemporary 
Italian literature through acts of translation: Barker, the translator of Domenichi 
and Gelli; Hoby, the translator of Castiglione.*® Soon after Hoby left Italy to 
return to England. 

However, on 21 May 1554 Hoby set out once more for Italy to escape the 
Marian reaction by joining the English exile community in Venice. It was during 
this second residence in Italy, especially Padua, in the company of so many highly 
educated, refined English exiles (including Cheke whose letters denouncing Italy 
and Italians also date from this period) that Hoby probably finished his Book of 
the Courtier some time before his return to England in January 1556, most likely 
in February 1555. 

Under Elizabeth, Hoby’s career was stellar. In 1566 he was appointed 
ambassador to France but died almost immediately after assuming his post. Thus, 
despite his known Italophilia, Hoby was seen as a great man, a protector of the 
church and realm and a very important member of the intellectual world of early 
Elizabethan England. There is no suspicion whatsoever that his Italophilia in any 
way affected him negatively. He spoke and wrote Italian perfectly and built an 
Italian Renaissance fountain at Bisham. But, it must be remembered, he served 
a Queen who also knew Italian and delighted in addressing ambassadors in that 
language. 

Therefore, what conclusions can be drawn from this wandering journey through 
the English vilification of Italy and the positive monuments of Italian culture 


Century,” in P. Cunningham and C. Brock, eds., International Currents in Educational Ideas 
and Practice (London: History of Education Society, 1988), p. 5. 


25. Travels, ed. Powell, p. 61. 


26. K. R. Bartlett, “Thomas Hoby,” The Dictionary of Literary Biography, Cxxxil, ed. D. 
A. Richardson (Detroit: Broccoli, Clark, Layman, 1993), p. 189. 


Travel and Translation: The English and Italy 505 


produced in the very years when that distrust was being articulated and developed? 
Is there any connection between the Italian experience of men such as Barker and 
Hoby and the creation of English caricatures of Italian vice so racily recorded by 
Nashe and pitilessly dramatized in Iago, Bossola or a dozen other Machiavels 
skulking about Jacobean or Caroline stages? Just what does Venice have to do with 
London or Italy with Iago? 

The conclusions are three. First, and most obviously, there will always be 
an element of personal taste in English perceptions of Italy. Cheke and Moorecroft 
hated the place because they were obsessed with reformed religion and insular 
values. Their responses were personal and not terribly influential, despite the 
reputation of the former as a scholar. 

The second conclusion is more complex, but equally true. The English 
appreciation of Italy was from the beginning ambiguous inasmuch as its very beauty 
and profundity were seen not just for their own aesthetic sake but as dangerously 
seductive instruments of the devil, leading simple solid upright Englishmen into 
popery and vice and hence into bottomless perdition. Ascham says this; Nashe 
does as well. Parker compares Italian culture to Circe, able through the magical 
force of its beauty to transform men into beasts, his monstrous metamorphosis. 
Until the exposure of the Ridolfi Plot and the papal deposition of the Queen in the 
early 1570s there was a chance that the English character could withstand the power 
of Italian culture: the events of 1571-72 proved it might not—Barker is, then, an 
exemplum. The English were too open, honest and even stolidly naive to stand 
up to the Machiavels, the Catherine de’Medici’s, the Pius V’s and the subtle 
attraction of exquisite damnation. It was almost as if Tertullian’s fear of the danger 
of the profundity and beauty of pagan literature had been revisited upon the English 
race. 

Added to this is the third observation, and the one which explains this present 
obsession with the translators, Barker and Hoby, two opposites in rank, career, 
religion, promise and reputation: the one the lowest model of the Italianified 
Englishman; the other the perfect scholar, diplomat knight, a kind of second rank 
Philip Sidney with none of the religious small-mindedness imposed upon that 
unfortunate young man. Until about 1550 England did not know Italy. Until 
William Thomas—who also died a traitor’s death at Tyburn and was an embezzler 
as well—produced his /talian Grammar and his History of Italy at mid-century, 
there were no easy means of access to Renaissance Italian culture in the original. 
Until Barker began his translations of popular Italian texts, such as Gelli, the world 
of contemporary letters was closed as well; and Barker started writing at the very 
moment when Hoby was at work on that great monument of the late Italian Renais- 
sance, the wonderful vernacular popularization of neoplatonism, the apogee of the 
dramatic dialogue and one of the most influential texts of the Renaissance itself: 
Castiglione’s Cortegiano. With the printing of this great work in 1561 Hoby made 
available not just a book but a digest of the currents of the Italian literary, cultural 


506 KENNETH R. BARTLETT 


and philosophic worlds. He in many ways made the courtly world of cinquecento 
Italy available to his readers. 

Here, then, is the point. The English educated reader was forced to confront 
the reality of Italy, the true culture of the Renaissance. The Reformation had 
broken the myth of the respublica christiana, the singular ideal of christendom, the 
ancient memory of imperial Rome linking all European peoples into a Latin, 
Catholic, imperial vision. It is not an accident, then, that the first translations 
(Wyatt and Surrey) are contemporaneous with the beginning of the long Parliament 
of the Reformation, the fall of Wolsey and the rise of Cromwell. Similarly, it is 
not an accident that Englishmen, regardless of class, religion and expectation, were 
compelled to address the role of Italian Renaissance culture as other, as an 
experience separate, removed from their own. Only in this act of distancing, of 
acquiring some measure of perspective, could writers such as Barker and Hoby 
describe their experiences with understanding and sympathy. The Italy they knew 
so well, the culture and language and people they so admired and promoted through 
their translations were newly discovered neighbours, not another manifestation of 
themselves. Italy was revealed to the English and had for the first time to be ex- 
plained and interpreted for them. This was the work of the translators and later 
the polemicists, because in becoming other, Italy became also feared. No amount 
of brilliant work by Hoby, or later Harington, or any of the other splendid 
interpreters of Italian culture could undo the fear born of the creation of the Italian 
as Machiavel. Where Gregory the Great had proclaimed the Angli to be angeli, 
Ascham, Moorecroft and Harrison saw them as diavoli incarnati, corrupted by that 
peninsular isle of Circe. 


Victoria College — University of Toronto 





WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


Knowledge That Counted: 
Italian Phrase-Books and Dictionaries 
in Elizabethan England 


Language most shewes a man: speake that I may see thee. It springs out of the 
most retired, and inmost parts of us, and is the Image of the Parent of it, the mind. 
No glasse renders a mans forme, or likenesse, so true as his speech. Nay, it is 
likened to a man; and as we consider feature, and composition in a man; so words 
in Language. 

(Ben Jonson, Timber; or Discoveries) 


An important, if contingent, chapter in early modern hodoeporics concerns 
dictionaries and phrase-books. The target audience initially was the traveller who 
hoped to find his way, and to distinguish himself, while on tour. I say contingent 
because the composition of and market for phrase-books depended ona host of prior 
texts, material conditions, and social expectations. This applied to gentleman- 
sojourners and diplomats no less than to merchants (the former characterizing the 
bulk of Elizabethan travellers, and the latter, those in the Stuart Age).' 

Irrespective of one’s reasons for travelling abroad, what one encountered was 
to some extent a result of what one already had read about or had been advised 
to see there. In this regard, then, investigating phrase-books and their compilers 
would be a valuable corrective when studying extant Renaissance accounts of what 
one reportedly encountered when travelling to and from Italy. After all when the 
prospective traveller mulled over phrases, proverbs, and word lists before setting 
out on his journey, he was, in effect, made to imagine a place for himself in that 
foreign land by means of, and within, a discourse that reflected a wealth of 
accumulated, if commonplace, experiences. Further he would anticipate what he 
will have seen once he had completed his sojourn and returned safely back home. 
For as the proverb aptly says (recorded among other places in Torriano’s 
continuation of Florio’s Vocabolario Italiano & Inglese): “Chi va e torna fa buon 
viaggio” (sig. Kk*2). 

A closer look at phrase-books and at word lists appended to dictionaries allows 


1. This theme emerges in Frances A. Yates’s pioneering work on foreign language study 
in Renaissance England, to which, as will become evident, my own work is indebted (Florio, 
pp. 139, 327). 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


508 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


us to learn more about the underlying structures of thought associated with wider 
concerns of Elizabethan travellers including—and this is crucial to my argument—the 
activation and the setting in place of a special kind of memory. Appropriately then 
my focus will be the pre-eminent phrase-maker and Italian-about-London, John Florio 
(and his literary successor, John Torriano).* His skillful recycling and translating 
of maxims gives us a way to discern the broader contours of a mentalité associated 
with Elizabethan ideas about voyaging, which while grounded initially in lived 
experience, take on shades both of the humanist ideal of cosmopolitanism and the 
more quotidian desire to have license to explore another land as one would not have 
had the liberty to do at home. For Florio, travelling in the world (both in terms 
of preparing to live and speak in a foreign land, and also the more general allegorical 
sense of each man being homo viator, a pilgrim on the Road of Life) afforded the 
sojourner an opportunity to comport himself admirably by and through spoken 
words—for “language most shows a man.” We stand to learn a great deal from 
seeing the Elizabethan Age through this kind of textual filter, as a way to 
complement our vast and ever-growing store of information on what was reportedly 
said or done while travelling. 

First we can see at work the attitude mentioned above, of the traveller who, 
even before leaving England, would have forecast his eventual return home and 
anticipated his having left in that land a lasting impression of himself—as a kind 
of “after-image,” or rather a resonant echo owing to the words that he will have 
spoken and the deeds he will have performed. I regret using such an awkward tense- 
construction, but there is little way other to express as precisely the complex mental 
shifts in time and place characteristic of the traveller’s projection of a future image 
of his former, witty presence, and which was part and parcel of his anticipation 
of returning home with the kinds of experiential (if not material) benefits that accrue 
to a traveller. We can understand a bit more about this attitude by thinking of it 
in its grammatical sense, in terms of the future anterior, in the tense that enables 
us to project ourselves into a moment yet to come, at a time when we can say that 
something already will have been.? 

And so too Florio, like an urbane traveller who sets his sights on new lands, 


2. As Simonini has observed, twelve Italian grammars and dialogue manuals (and four 
attempts at dictionaries) were published during the Tudor-Stuart period, and four were by 
John Florio: First Fruites (1578), Second Frutes (1591), Worlde of Wordes (1598), and Queen 
Anna’s World of Words (1611); two more, by Giovanni Torriano, were either adaptations 
or augmentations of Florio’s scholarship, Italian Tutor (1640) and Vocabolario Italiano & 
Inglese (1659). While an able successor to Florio in his own right, Torriano never collaborated 
with him directly, and most likely purchased his literary remains from Florio’s widow (see 
Yates, Florio, p. 322). 


3. For an extended analysis of this commonplace Renaissance way of thinking, see Engel, 
Mapping Mortality, pp. 67-68, 83. 





Knowledge That Counted 509 


projected—and labored to create—a lingering and resolute echo of himself (through 
his translations of others’ words and his foreign language dialogues riddled with 
proverbs and aphorisms); an echo that he anticipated would stand over and above 
his origins as the son of a refugee,* and would assume a commanding presence 
in Elizabethan London.’ But what are we to make of the contributions of a man 
like Florio, who made a living and a name for himself trading primarily in words 
during the English literary Renaissance? Although he was born in England in the 
beginning of the reign of Edward VI, he banked on his foreignness throughout his 
life; and, as far as I can tell, he never went to Italy.° This may help to explain 
why Florio’s dialogues are set, for the most part, in and around London. 

Still it is the imaginative staging of one’s activities, with the traveller-student 
anticipating being the particular speaker ofa universal and memorable phrase, that 
brings texts like Florio’s in line with the vade mecum, the commonplace book, the 
enchiridion, which was filled conventionally with notable sentences and witty sayings. 
In the process of using such a book, the traveller imagined himself in situations 
that drew on communally derived wisdom—situations that might at some time in 
the future become his present reality. Thus books of travellers’ dialogues and handy 
phrases are on the same order as those relating to the memory arts. 

In the extended demonstration and analysis that follows, we need to attend not 
only to similarities in form and in specific terms and phrases, but also those 
pertaining to function and to the principles underlying the targeted use of such 
books—especially the projective kind of memory they both depend on, and which 
they set in place. Forexample, in /talian Revived, Torriano said that, for the benefit 
of his readers, he decided to include: 


some small Histories, Fables, and Jests, cull’d and colected out of several of our 
Italian Authors, namely such as I thought might have most Propriety of Language 
in them, transitions and Links of Discourse, fit for Imitation; and all 1 presume, 
more or less, useful, delightful. (sig. A2v) 


4. Yates, Florio, pp. 2-6 reproduces and discusses the relevant biographical sections from 
the writings of John Florio’s father: Apologia di M. Michel Agnolo Fiorentino (1557). 


5. Florio probably transcribed Sidney’s Arcadia and wrote the chapter headings still in use; 
he was well-known to Edmund Spenser and Gabriel Harvey. His companionship with and 
admiration for Giordano Bruno is well documented, and he kept company with the so-called 
“School of Night” (Raleigh, Hariot, and Marlowe). Further, in the Countess of Bedford, 
Florio shared the same patroness as Jonson, Donne, Drayton, Chapman, and Daniel, and 
was acquainted with these luminaries of Elizabethan poetry. He was part of literary 
controversies, and was sufficiently well-known in London circles that aspects of his speech 
and mien were mimicked in stage-characters created by Shakespeare and Jonson (see Yates, 
Florio, pp. 334-336; and Acheson, pp. 181-222). 


6. As an infant John Florio probably was in Antwerp where his father, a devout Protestant, 
had fled during the reign of Catholic Queen Mary; it seems likely that the closest he ever 
got to Italy was the Grisons canton in Switzerland (Yates, Florio, 12, 15, 21). 


510 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


The same topics and rationale are used as well by the foremost English Renaissance 
proponent of the ars memorativa, John Willis; in summarizing the accepted decorum 
of a memory theatre, he advocated that one reduce and store: “All Histories, Actions, 
Fables, common Affaires.”’ He advised further that all kinds “of Hyeroglyphicks, 
and innumerable sentences ingenuously exemplified, may be reposited in Reposito- 
ries” (p. 78); and gives a comprehensive account of how one might use commonplace 
books to collect, for future use, “sentences worthy of Memory”—such sentences 
“as we desire to preserve not onely in paper, but in our hearts, because of their 
singular Elegancy, serious Gravity, concise brevity, or witty ingenuity” (p. 11). 
In the same place he goes on to advocate that such information be collected and 
stored under apt headings: 


in a Manual every kind ina particular place: Epigrams by themselves, Anagrams 
by themselves, so Proverbs, Epitaphs, Jests, Riddles, Observations, &c. by 
themselves: This Enchiridion wherein you write such remarkable sentences, ought 
always to be carryed about you, (and may therefore be called, Vade mecum), that 
you may peruse the same at leisure-hours when you are abroad, not having other 
employments; by which means, Time, most precious of all things, will not be 
unprofitably spent. 


While Willis did not break new ground, he sums up well the practical application 
of humanist rhetorical training, and the ways in which such collections were viewed 
and used. By the same token Torriano, like Florio before him, conceived of his 
Select Italian Proverbs in the same way that Willis speaks of the practical mnemonic 
uses for commonplaces: 


And for the conveniency of making this book a Vade mecum; I have placed the 
Italian first with the English interpretation immediately underneath it. (sigs. A3v- 
A4) 


There was a booming market for printed commonplace books,® as for dual- 
language dialogues that helped the traveller learn what was considered to be useful. 
Both kinds of collections (of Italian phrases and of remarkable sentences) make 
the information available in ways that are easy to use. Printing made available neatly 
arranged anthologies and thesauri of commonplaces, whether sententiae culled from 
classical works or phrases from foreign language texts.? And like the jurist or 


7. Willis, Mnemonica, p. 74. Willis’s treatise first appeared in 1621 in Latin; and, for 
broader editorial reasons, all future quotations refer to Leonard Sowersby’s English edition 
of 1661. 


8. See Wright, Middle Class Culture in Elizabethan England, pp. 145-53; and Lechner, 
Renaissance Concepts of the Commonplaces. 


9. A bridge between the private and the printed systems of collecting and preserving 
“sentences worthy of Memory” is John Foxe’s Pandectae locorum communium (1572), which 


Knowledge That Counted 511 


orator, or simply like the man who would be deemed witty “at table,” the traveller 
needed to make the most of his time and have ready phrases close at hand. How 
fitting then it was for him to draw on the humanist rhetorical tradition and on the 
time-tried mnemonic methods that already had proven to be so commodious for 
organizing a vast array of useful information—information he might need to draw 
on at a moment’s notice while in transit, depending on what the situation required. 

In her ground-breaking book, The Art of Memory, Frances Yates gives a history 
of the mnemonic techniques based on strolling—or travelling—from place to place 
as one retrieved previously stored bits of information, but she does not directly 
address the connection between travel texts (as pertains to the collections of proverbs 
associated with foreign language acquisition) and the ars memorativa."° Still, we 
do not have to look far to find these two literary traditions overlapping, in the form 
of an explicit reference to a Memory Palace (as a background image suitable for 
storing bits of information that had been emblematically reduced and placed, perhaps, 
as statues in niches along the walls).'' Just such an image shows up in the 
preeminent dual-language dialogue book of the period, John Florio’s Second Frutes 
(1591); and, insofar as it appears as a passing reference (that sets up a longer passage 
of verbal brinkmanship between a master and servant), it would have been 
understood immediately by the Elizabethan reader. 

The reference in question comes early in the first dialogue, which, ostensibly 
and predictably, concerns “rising in the morning.” At the same time though it can 
be seen as an implicit address to the traveller-pupil regarding the author-tutor’s 
ideas behind his teaching method, at once memorably amusing and also drawing 
on mnemonic methods of edification. This sets the tone and pace for the entire text. 
Further, one of the speakers identified as “Nolano” undoubtedly is the Italian 
polymath Giordano Bruno, who was residing in London at the time, who was a 
friend of Florio’s, and who was a chief advocate of the Renaissance ars memora- 


was a fill-in-the-blank workbook with printed topical headings and a few typical examples 
to suggest a pattern for the book’s owner to follow (see Rechtien, p. 84). 


10. The locus classicus for the “place-system” associated with the “artificial memory system” 
is considered to be Rhetorica ad Herennium, III.xvii-xx; see also Quintilian, Jnstitutio 
Oratoria, X1.ii.17-41. Fora good, compact survey of this aspect of artes memorativae, see 
Carruthers, Book of Memory, pp. 122-55. 


11. Asa rhetorical strategy, this is rehearsed by Cicero, De oratore, II, 1xxxvii, 358. On 
the revival of interest in the Domus locorum in the Renaissance, see Volkmann, Ars 
Memorativa, pp. 163-65; and, among the more popular of the Italian Renaissance advocates 
of such multi-tiered mnemonic devices, see Camillo, L’Idea del Theatro and Dolce la 
Memoria. The pragmatic application of this kind of interior architecture reaches its zenith 
in the mnemonic itinerary of St. Teresa’s Castillo Interior o Las Moradas;, on the interweaving 
of devotional literary practices, the journey narrative, and mnemonic principles, see de la 
Flor, Teatro de la Memoria, pp. 91-98. 


4 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


tiva.'? In this colloquy, Torquato and his servant Ruspa, prepare to leave the 
house, but end up engaging in what sounds a bit like stock-in-trade stage-banter 
between a straight-man and a foolish joker: 


. Io non so trouar la chiaue. 

. Doue I’hai posta, trascurato che sei? 

. Stamane |’ho messa nella scarsella, o io l’ho. 

. Sei tu cosi pouero di memoria? 

. Io non mi ricordo dal naso alla bocca. 

* Tu non farai mai statuti, ne casa da tre solari. 

Pur che io ne faccia da uno. 

Tre arbori, ti basteranno a far cio. 

. Molti grandi vengono a star in case cosi basse. 

Al corpo di, ch’io non uuo dire, che s’io metto mano ad un bastone, io ti fard ben 
star in ceruello. 

. Io non saprei farci altro. 

. Tu vuoi ch’io dij di piglio 4 qualche pezzo di legno per pestarti le ossa. 

. Cid non vorrei gia io. 

. * Hora vedo che chi l’ha da ratura, sin a la fossa dura. (sigs. B3v, B4v)" 


BrPARPARARAD 


4AAanD 


The allusion to a Memory Palace (“casa da tre solari”) is unmistakable. As 
such it gives us one of our first clues as to how we are to recover, in its Renaissance 
intellectual context, the proper way to approach this most important of the Italian 
phrase-books. After all, the same image is used by Sir Philip Sidney as a convenient 
way to allude to the ways poems—like proverbs—with edifying results, stick in 
our minds. 4 


12. See Yates, Florio, pp. 87-123; Yates, Art of Memory, pp. 197-309; and her magisterial 
scholarly achievement, Giordano Bruno. 


13. Florio translates the passage as follows (sigs. B4,C): 
. I cannot finde the key. 
. Where hast thou layd it? thou careles as thou art. 
. I put it in my pocket this morning. Oh I have it. 
Art thou so short of memory. 
No man more forgetfull than I. 
. Thou wilt neuer make statues, nor houses, with three stories. 
. | would I might make any with one. 
. Three trees will serve thee doo that. 
. Many great men come to dwell in as lowe houses. 
. By the bodie of. I will not sweare. If I take a cudgell in hand, I will make thee looke 
to thy selfe. 
R. I cannot do with all. 
T. Thou longest to haue mee take a staffe in hand to swadle thy bones with all. 
R. Nay mary would I not. 
T. Now I see that what is bred in the bone, will neuer out of the flesh. 


APAPARARAD 


14. Not only were Sidney’s literary efforts known to Florio, but also, arguably, he was 
commissioned to transcribe Sidney’s main texts at exactly the same time when Florio was 


Knowledge That Counted 513 


[E]ven they that have taught the art of memory have showed nothing so apt for 
it as a certain room divided into many places well and thoroughly known. Now, 
that hath the verse in effect perfectly, every word having his natural seat, which 
seat must needs make the words remembered. (p. 122) 


But to return to Florio’s line beginning “Tu non farai mai statuti” [“Thou wilt 
neuer make statues”]: it is marked with an asterisk (on the Italian side only) to signal 
that it is a sentence worthy of being recording in one’s commonplace book and 
reserved for future, practical use.'* Throughout the text many such memorable 
phrases are thus marked, the better for the reader to collect and find suitable places 
for them in his own Memory Palace. And so, while it has long been recognized 
that such popular phrase-books and language lesson dialogue manuals brought 
together (albeit in new ways) the literary and cultural traditions of the medieval 
debate, Latin colloquy, and French maniére de langage,'* I would insist that we 
add also the classical ars memorativa. 

By the same token, his later Worlde of Wordes (1598) was not simply designed 
to help Englishmen work their way through popular Italian literature, as had been 
the case with some other authors’ earlier efforts. It was much more than this, and 
thereby served to substantiate Florio’s claim as a serious scholar.'’ Further, the 
revised edition of Vocabolario Italiano & Inglese remained the standard dictionary 
throughout the seventeenth century, and formed a basis upon which its successors 
were built. 

Among the characteristic features of this work is the inclusion of prov- 
erbs—advertised as enabling “the speedy attaining to the Italian Tongue.” We can 
gain insight into the rationale for this approach to language acquisition, especially 
as it pertains to the culling and arranging of proverbs with an eye toward creating 
a handy Table of Memory, by looking first at Torriano’s address “To the courteous 
Reader” in his Select Italian Proverbs (1649).'® 


composing Second Frutes (see Yates, Florio, pp. 200-207). On Sidney’s understanding and 
possible use of the memory arts, see van Dorsten, pp. 419-25. 


15. On this conventional printing practice, especially as pertains to texts that recorded “staged 
speech,” see Hunter, “The Marking of Sententiae,” 171-73. 


16. See Simonini’s introduction to Second Frutes; and Yates, Florio, p. 140. 
17. Yates, Florio, pp. 189-90. 


18. We do well to remember that the systematic arrangement of information in charts and 
tables is, axiomatically, mnemonic (for example multiplication tables, or the Periodic Table 
of Elements). The currency of this theme is evinced by Shakespeare’s Hamlet, (I1.v.99) when 
Hamlet speaks of wiping clean his youthful tables of memory and filling them now with 
words to keep him mindful of his duty; and also Hamlet’s hyperbolic praise of Laertes: “To 
divide him inventorially would dizzy the arithmetic of memory” (V.ii.114). 


514 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


It is generally conceived, that by Proverbs and proverbiall sentences be they of 
what language soever, the nature and genius of the Nation is easily discovered: 
and the reason may be, because they are built upon experience, and the long 
observation of passages by a whole Nation, one man being not sufficient to bring 
up a Proverb, but a multitude; nor one year, but one or more ages. By the precepts 
and cautions contained in them, they become profitable; by their varietie and 
conceits, delightfull. (sig. A3v) 


Further, as a way of making more serviceable later versions of his book, which 
Torriano conceived of and called a vade mecum, he arranged the phrases not “by 
way of heads or commonplaces,” but by “a kind of Alphabeticall way for the 
speedier finding out of the Italian Proverb” (sig.A4). Florio too was quite direct 
in his effort to rationalize his reliance on and his special way of arranging adages 
in his Second Frutes (1591)."° 


Proverbs are the pith, the proprieties, the proofs, the purities, the elegancies, as 
the commonest so the commendablest phrases of a language. To use them is a 
grace, the understand them a good, but to gather them a paine to me, though gaine 
to thee. (sig. *2) 


Still, in his previous book of dialogue language instruction, First Fruites (1578), 
Florio exuberantly cribbed proverbs and anecdotes from already published 
collections, often merely translating them.” His motivation in serving up these 
already well-known platitudes most likely resulted from his desire to attract the 
attention of, and gain patronage from, members of the Sidney-circle by appealing 
to their presumed Puritan leanings. He gave this over by the time he wrote Worlde 
of Wordes (1598), but still retained his love of extended conceits and euphonious 
doublets.” Thus, in the dedication to this influential and momentous work, he 
relates why his Muse named his book as she did: 


since as the Univers containes all things, digested in best equipaged order, 
embellisht with innumerable ornaments by the universall creator. And as Tipocosmia 
imagined by Allesandro Cittolini, and Fabrica del mondo, framed by Francesco 


19. This work was published at the same time Florio had found secure patronage from, 
among others, the Countess of Bedford, at whose insistence he translated Montaigne (Yates, 
Florio, p. 220). 


20. Yates, Florio, p. 38. 


21. During his life, Florio remained one of the most ebullient and luxuriant prose stylist 
of the age. Frances Yates summed up his approach to writing quite well (Florio, p. 227): 
“Things must not be said once only; they must be said at least twice and sometimes three 
or four times in paired or balanced phrases. There must be an arabesque of sound-similarity, 
alliteration perhaps or at any rate sound-repetition of some kind, weaving in and out among 
the phrases to give them color, harmony, majesty....He cannot understand thought-pattern 
without sound-pattern.” 


Knowledge That Counted 515 


Alunno, and Piazza universale set out by Thomaso Garzoni tooke their names of 
the universall worlde, in words to represent things of the world: as words are types 
of things, and everie man by himselfe a little world in some resemblances; so 
thought she, she did see as great capacitie, and as meete method in this, as in those 
latter, and (as much as there might be in Italian and English) a modell of the 
former, and therefore as good cause so to entitle it. If looking into it, it looke like 
the Sporades, or scattered Ilands, rather than one well-joynted or close-joyned 
bodie, or one coherent orbe: your Honors knowe, an armie ranged in files is fitter 
for muster, then in a ring; and jewels are sooner found in several boxes, then in 
one bagge. If in these rankes the English outnumber the Italian, congratulate the 
copie and varietie of our sweete-mother toong.... 


Of the many things one might say in glossing this passage that displays Florio’s 
prose at its most typical, I would mention only his conscious understanding that 
his work was in league with a leading Renaissance treatise on general knowl- 
edge—one that had an entire chapter devoted to the ars memorativa—Garzoni’s 
Piazza Universale (1578). In fact, as Yates has pointed out, it was Garzoni’s 
ambition to produce a universal memory system that combined the techniques of 
Rossellius and Lull.” 

We need to keep such things in mind as we move toward reconstructing and 
commenting on the extent of what Florio thought he was doing with language, if 
we are to understand in a Renaissance context the ways that his lessons were likely 
to have been taken to heart. Such considerations take on greater significance, 
especially as pertains to the reigning ideas about what counted in language study, 
when we consider that Florio counselled his readers in much the same way that 
he taught his students—many of whom had a hand in shaping the politics and letters 
of the day. After all, in addition to tutoring the flower of the Elizabethan gentry, 
Florio seems to have been attached for a time to the household of Thomas Sackville, 
Earl of Dorest, author of England’s first blank-verse tragedy, Gorboduc and an 
organizer of and contributor to the politically portentous Mirror for Magistrates; 
he worked with Richard Hakluyt, whose Principall Navigations helped to bring 
England to the forefront of Europe’s major sea-powers (Florio translated the first 
two voyages of Jacques Cartier from the Italian by Ramusio); and he remained close 
to the poet and eminent statesman, Fulke Greville, Lord Brooke. 

The thrust of Florio’s language lessons, and indeed his philosophy of language, 
can be seen in his approach to compiling and publishing his books. Specifically, 
even though later editions of the dictionary contain detailed grammar rules, the 
emphasis on being able to speak readily and colloquially (if floridly) takes precedence 
over the general acquisition of the fundamentals of Italian composition. Florio’s 
practice reveals he was in sympathy with a novel pedagogical view ripe for a nation 


22. Yates, Art of Memory, p. 206. 


516 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


on the go: the aim of modern language acquisition in Elizabethan England was to 
get the student speaking as soon and as proverbially as possible.” 

This might also help to explain why the form of the colloquy was favored, and 
why the grammar portion Is truncated and consigned to an appendix. But it is also 
true (as can be seen in his faulty translations of some tough passages in Montaigne, 
no less than in close comparison of his Italian terms “Englished”) that his knowledge 
of grammar—whether French or his native Italian—, so far as writing is concerned, 
was defective.“ For whatever his reasons though, Florio maintained that knowing 
a foreign language did not mean knowing enough of it to pass oneself off as a 
traveller when at home. Rather, with an English audience in mind (even though 
the dialogues often take the form of Italians in London, whether to see a comedy 
at the Bull Theatre, to walk with a friend to the Exchange, or to catch a boat at 
Paul’s wharf), he put everyday conversation above learned disputation. 

Closer scrutiny of this point will yield a harvest of some ripe fruit, indeed. 
The celebrated passage about a visit to the theatre takes place in the opening dialogue 
of First Fruites (sig. A1); and the walk from the Exchange to Paul’s wharf takes 
place in the second dialogue of Second Frutes (sig.D). And it is also in this dialogue 
that we are given to understand the speakers are Italian (at least as far as Florio’s 
pragmatic conception of the fictionalized dialogue is concerned) both because of 
the servant’s name (Piccinino) and also because of the English dialogue headings. 

First, the servant’s name takes on symbolic resonances not only in the context 
of the dialogue but also for the author’s entire project. According to the Vocabolario 
(sig. Vv3v), Piccinino is the diminutive form of Picciédlo, which means “little, pretty, 
small, quaint, short, or slender”; but, especially apt in the light of the florilogical 
and horticultural puns Florio applied to his own name (and implicit in naming his 
books as “fruits”), it also means “the stalk whereat any fruit hangeth.” As a subtle 
display of his wit and ingenuity, Florio may well have intended this character as 
a comic alter ego, Piccinino—the small stalk that bears fruit. 

Second, the speakers are introduced as “three friends, Thomas, Iohn, Henry” 
and the letters designated each speaker on both the Italian and English sides of the 
page are “T,” “G,” and “H.” The first letters of Thomaso/Thomas and Henrico/Hen- 
ry give no Clue as to which proper names are foremost in Florio’s agenda, as they 
could stand as well in either language; but, since there is no “I” (or “J”) for “Iohn,” 
we can presume Florio is hearing, in his mind’s ear, Giovanni (as it happens his 
Own name, though to be sure one quite common then as now). We can rule out 
the “G” as being a compositor’s mistake among other reasons because Florio was 
known to have supervised the production of his books quite closely, and had done 


23. Yates, Florio, p. 139. 
24. See del Re, Florio’s “First Fruites,” p. liv; and Yates, Florio, p. 238. 





Knowledge That Counted 517 


so ever since he lived a few doors from the printer of First Fruites in 1578.” 

It is tempting to think that the Giovanni in the dialogue, at some times at least, 
could be an aspect (a resonant echo) of John Florio himself—a man who, like the 
character in the dialogue, was as apt to answer to this name as to John. As his career 
took off, Florio signed himself in English “Resolute John Florio,” but he was 
“Giovanni Florio” in his Giardino di Ricreatione (London, 1591). He was “Giovanni 
Florio” in the Epistola Dedicatoria to Robert Dudley in First Fruites (sig. *3), and 
used the initials “G. F.” at the end of the section on “Regole necessarie per proferir 
L’Inglese”; but, in the same text, he was “I. F.” at the end of the English version 
of the Epistle Dedicatorie (sig. *4v). For the most part, then, as might be expected: 
when he wrote in Italian, he signed himself “G. F.” and when in English “I. F.” 
He was at home in both names. Undoubtedly then, when he conversed with fellow 
Italian speakers, like Bruno, he would answer to the name “Giovanni.” 

The point is not merely that Florio freely and easily fragmented and doubled 
aspects of himself and his past experiences so as to make a linguistic mosaic for 
others to read and note and situate in their memories, notebooks, and conversation. 
What is more, so much of what made “resolute John Florio” so resolutely himself 
was facilitated by virtue of his skill at extending and drawing out the tacit and hidden 
possibilities of language. This is especially true as pertains to the way he transformed 
proverbial speech so as to give it back to the world in words that were at once 
universal and also easily appropriated by any specific reader. 

But to turn back to another aspect of the author’s projection of himself into 
the fiction of his language lessons, let us pause to consider what Torriano says in 
his address “to all who desire to learn the Italian Tongue.” His present dialogues, 
he informs us, were made “for the Meridian of England” the better 


to teach the English Nation Italian; not intending, as some might imagine, by a 
reverst method, to teach an Italian, or any other Forreighner English...wherefor 
I have made the Italian to lead all along: I feign an Italian, though not the same 
person alwaies, to have had some Friendship or Acquaintance at least with some 
English man in Italy, not the same person neither, and so the Italian coming over 
into England, meets the one occasionally, another by purposely visits, and entertains 
discourse with him. (sig. A3) 


And so the stage thus is set for the first dialogue in which, as Torriano reports: 
“T suppose an Italian newly come to a Person or Ordinary...renew their former 
acquaintance.” He feigns and he supposes; just as Florio modelled his dialogues 
on social and linguistic circumstances that men might encounter. But we must note 
that Florio, and to a lesser extent Torriano, was given to extended conceits, 
euphuistic extravagances of language, and ever-evolving staged repartee and maxims. 

I would underscore here the staged aspect of the memorable language 


25. Yates, Florio, p. 27, n. 4. 


518 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


lessons—made more so because of their obvious debt to the principles of the ars 
memorativa. The stage with its balconies and cellarage, like a three-tiered house, 
was ideally suited to serve as an artificial, or local, memory system within which 
one might encounter proverbs and other emblematic modes of expression.*° After 
all, the theatre was the place where people were used to hearing memorable words 
repeated over and over and to seeing memorable deeds played out again and again.’ 

This typical Elizabethan view of the mnemonic efficacy of the staging of 
dialogues and the recreation of deeds that men might play gives us further insight 
into, and to some extent helps us give an account of, why a word-smith like Florio 
favored simulated speech. The dialogue format is effective for learning a language 
precisely because it sets up mini-narratives and situations that resemble those of 
staged plays, filled with memorable verbal exchanges. The better to help the pupil 
assimilate the words and order of the linguistic episodes, whether in mere lists or 
in the more elaborately scripted dialogues, Torriano in the Vocabolario Italiano, 
like Florio before him, kept to mainstream language: 


in this Dictionary I have shun’d and avoided (as near as could be) obsolete and 
forc’d words, and have chosen to put only such as are obvious to the understanding, 
preferring good plain currant Money before gawdy Medals. (sig.3U2v). 


From Florio’s earliest work as well, this same theme is couched in the 
vernacular commonplace of the humanist tradition; namely, that it is through speech 
a person “expresseth and sheweth foorth his thoughts, and conceits of his mind” 
and that “that kinde of writing is most perfect, that most perfectly can shew forth 
and expresse the liuely meaning of speache.””* This presupposition, that speech 
is more perfect than writing, needs to be examined if we are to get at the essence 
of Florio’s project—one which came to enjoy considerable popularity even at a time 
when Englishmen in general were more than a little suspicious of all things Italian. 

Therefore, in closing, I would have us look more closely at the aesthetic and 
epistemological rationale for the Tudor-humanist attitude that maxims and florid 
phrases were a valid passport to cosmopolitan wit. What follows is by no means 
exhaustive, but suggestive. In bringing this topic to general attention, I hope to 
encourage further study along these lines so that we can begin to fill in those gaps 
in intellectual history that are always left open when we come face to face with 
the likes of a John Florio, who literally traded in words, and who, though he died 


26. See Yates, Theatre of the World, pp. 136-40. So as to establish the long-term currency 
of such themes and terms, I would note in passing that Torriano retains Florio’s entry for 
“memoria locale” as late as the 1688 edition of Vocabolario (sig. Nn3v). 


27. Willis, Mnemonica (sigs. E2v-E3) gives the design, form, and function of aneveryday 
sort of Memory Theatre, and then details the appropriate activities and props that might 
be staged in it. 


28. Florio, First Fruites, fol. 113v. 





Knowledge That Counted 519 


in poverty, revelled in the rich life made possible in and through language. 

What, for example, can we glean from the appended categories of words that 
mattered, that were considered to be generally useful if not entertaining? For one 
thing the list of headings reveals an earnest, if slap-dash, attempt to order a wide 
and disparate body of knowledge. The section in question appears as part of 
Torriano’s appendix titled “A Brief Introduction to the Italian Tongue.” The list 
of verbs is pretty much what one would expect,” and the groupings of conjunctions, 
prepositions, and interjections are standard enough; but, the longest section by far, 
which consists of twenty five categories of key words or phrases lumped together 
as varieties of “adverbs,” raises some questions. It is in the categories themselves 
that we can discern what kinds of ideas, tacitly, mattered—or more correctly, what 
categories of speech, were accorded a place of privilege by the compiler of words, 
no less than of proverbs: 


1. Of Adverbs of Affirming. 2. Of Augmenting. 3. Of calling. 4. Of Comparing. 
5. Of Chusing. 6. Of Demonstrating. 7. Of denying. 8. Of doubting. 9. Of 
exhorting. 10. Of expecting. 11. Of forbidding. 12. Of Interrogation. 13. Of 
Lessening. 14. Of Number. 15. Of Order or sequence. 16. Of Place. 17. Of 
Posture. 18. Of Quality. 19. Of Quantity. 20. Of similitude. 21. Of Separation. 
22. Of professing and swearing. 23. Of Time. 24. Of wishing. 25. Of Impreca- 
tion.” 


First and most obviously, except for the twenty fifth-place, the list runs 
alphabetically ,*' which we might expect given Torriano’s fondness of this system 
for organizing proverbs. But what of this final place, “Of Imprecation,” which stands 
out from the rest and gives the appearance of having been—but which decidedly 
was not—tacked on as if an afterthought? The examples of this category of speech, 
begin and end with the same English meaning: “may it never thrive” and “never 
to thrive” (for “Mal pro” and “Senza pro”). The Vocabolario defines “imprecare” 
as “to desire or wish good or evil unto, by way of prayer or cursing” (sig. Ff4v); 
the Italian synonyms listed for the English “imprecation” are “maledictione” and 
“triste augurio” (sig. 4G2v). Although none of the examples refer to good things 
one would wish by prayer and tend rather toward the literal meaning of “maledic- 
tione,” still the terms are those we might expect to find expressing the topic: “Sulle 
forche” and “Che si rompa il collo,” and the colorful if grotesque “Che gli possa 


29. Fora detailed analysis of Florio’s earlier treatment of verbs, see del Re, Florio’s “First 
Fruites,” p. \vii-lxii. 


30. For the sake of making the point that the order was intentional on the part of the 
compiler, I cite here from the 1659 edition of Vocabolario (sigs. Ff*-Gg*2); the same order 
is used in the list appended to the 1688 edition (sigs. 5C2v-5C4). 


31. It can be assumed that “swearing” is the operative theme in the grouping of “professing 
and swearing.” 


520 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


cascar un occhio.” 

To speak a curse, to give voice to words that intend harm, is at once part of 
everyday speech and yet somehow outside of it. We do not need the insights of 
modern-day speech-act theory or frame-analysis to understand that imprecations 
are an echo of the belief in the power of words to affect reality. In the Judeo- 
Christian tradition God’s words are coincident with deeds; let there be light and 
there was light. Curses that come to pass once were “demonic.” And yet even today 
we cannot deny the frisson experienced when an imprecation, perhaps said as a 
reflex, comes true: “Morir postu!” 

Of all aspects of speech, it is the imprecation (as a special category of everyday 
speech) that can help us see how language works from the inside-out, especially 
in light of the way Florio dedicated himself to teaching, sporting with, and giving 
a rich life to English.” Florio’s translation “Of giving the lie” in his Essayes 
of Montaigne (11.18) embellishes an account of what underlies the custom of taking 
offense at someone’s words to the point of wishing him dead and acting on it 
accordingly. Insofar as the underlying sentiment is as much Florio’s as Montaigne’s, 
it helps us to see at last the reality—no less than the incantatory possibilities and 
power—that Florio perceived to inhere in words. 


Our intelligence being onely conducted by the Word: Who so falsifieth the same, 
betraieth publik society. It is the onely instrument, by means wherof our wils and 
thoughts are communicated: it is the interpretour of our soules: If that faile us 
we hold our selves no more, we enterknow one another no longer. (sig. Kk2v) 


Florio raises here as elsewhere, for our on-going consideration and edification, 
fundamental issues not only about linguistic forms—whether, say, imprecations or 
proverbs—culled from a large field of possibilities, but also he addresses directly 
the social, ethical, and ultimately the spiritual functions of language. It is in this 
regard, and especially as pertains to Florio’s life-long effort to imbue language with 
an instrumentality that went to the core of one’s knowing and one’s being in the 
world, that Emile Benveniste’s ideas on general linguistics can give us a way to 
bring to a resonant close this provisional study, offered as a contingent chapter in 
Renaissance hodoeporics. As we read these words, let us recall Florio’s insistence 
on reviving the dialogue format and his passion for setting in place proverbial 
wisdom so as to make us aware of what sorts of knowledge perennially counted 
in the world, despite our different ways of expressing it; but also—and this is the 
most important of all—let us remember his effort to make a World of Words: 


32. See Matthiessen’s chapter on Florio in Translation: An Elizabethan Art; and Conley, 
“Institutionalizing Translation,” p. 47. It is also worth noting that, in addition to being the 
first to use the genitive neuter pronoun “its,” as Yates points out (Florio, pp. 226-27), Florio 
is credited with introducing scores of new words into English, including: conscientious, 
tarnish, comport, efface, facilitate, amusing, debauching, regret, effort, emotion. 





Knowledge That Counted 521 


Language re-produces reality. This is to be understood in the most literal 
way: reality is produced anew by means of language. The speaker recreates 
the event and his experience of the event by his discourse. The hearer 
grasps the discourse first, and through this discourse, the event which is 
being reproduced. Thus the situation inherent in the practice of language, 
namely that of exchange and dialogue, confers a double function on the 
act of discourse; for the speaker it represents reality, for the hearer it 
recreates reality. This makes language the very instrument of intersubjective 
communication. At this point some serious problems immediately arise 
which we shall leave to philosophers, notably the adequacy of the mind 
to express “reality.” The linguist on his part considers that thought could 
not exist without language and that as a result the knowledge of the world 
is being determined by the expression it receives. Language reproduces 
the world, but by submitting it to its own organization. 


Vanderbilt University 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Acheson, Arthur. Shakespeare’s Lost Years in London (1586-1592) . . . displaying John 
Florio as Sir John Falstaff (1920; rpt. New York: Haskell House, 1971). 

Benveniste, Emile. Problems in General Linguistics. Trans. Mary Elizabeth Meek. Coral 
Gables: University of Miami Press, 1971. 

Camillo, Giulio. L’Idea del Theatro. Florence, 1550. 

Carruthers, Mary. The Book of Memory: A Study of Memory in Medieval Culture. Cambridge, 
1990. 

Cicero, M. Tullius. De oratore. Trans. E.W. Sutton and H. Rackham. 2 vols. Cambridge, 
Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1942. 

Conley, Tom. “Institutionalizing Translation: On Florio’s Montaigne.” Glyph Textual Studies 
1. New Series (1986), 45-60. 

Dolce, Lodovico. Dialogo...nel qvale si ragiona del modo di accrescere & conservar la 
Memoria. Venice, 1586. 

van Dorsten, J.A. “Arts of Memory and Poetry,” English Studies 48 (1967), 419-425. 

Engel, William E. Mapping Mortality: The Persistence of Memory and Melancholy in Early 
Modern England. Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1995. 

de la Flor, Fernando. Teatro de la Memoria: siente ensayos sombre mnemotecnia Espanola 
de los siglos XVII y XVIII. Salamanca: Junta de Castilla y Leon, 1988. 

Florio, John. The Essayes Or Morall, Politicke and Militarie Discourses of Lo. Michael 
de Montaigne. Third Edition. London. 1632. 

———-. Florio. His firste Fruites: which yeelde familiar speech, merie Prouerbs, wittie 
Sentences, and golden sayings. London, 1578. 

———-. Florios Second Frutes to be gathered of twelve Trees, of divers but delightsome 
tastes to the tongues of Italians and Englishmen.London, 1591. 


522 WILLIAM EDWARD ENGEL 


———-. A Worlde of Wordes, Or Most copious, and exact Dictionarie in Italian and English. 
London, 1611. 

Hunter, G. K. “The Marking of Sententiae in Elizabethan Printed Plays, Poems, and 
Romances,” The Library Sth series. Vol. 6 (Dec. 1951), 171-88. 

Lechner, Joan Marie. Renaissance Concepts of the Commonplaces. New York: Pageant Press, 


1962. 
Matthiessen, F.O. Translation: An Elizabethan Art Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University 
Press, 1931. 


Quintilian, M. Fabius. Jnstitutio Oratoria. Trans. H. E. Butler. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard 
University Press, 1922; rpt. 1979. 

del Re, Arundell. Florio’s “First Fruites.” Introduction and Notes to a Facsimile Reproduction. 
Taihoku, Formosa, 1936. 

Rechtien, John G. “John Foxe’s Comprehensive Collection of Commonplaces: A Renaissance 
Memory System for Students and Theologians,” Sixteenth Century Journal 9, No.1, 
(1978), 83-89. 

Rhetorica ad Herennium. Trans. Harry Caplan. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 
1954. 

Sidney, Philip. Apology for Poetry. Ed. Geoffrey Shepherd. 1965; rpt. Manchester 
University Press, 1973. 

Simonini, R.C. Introduction to Florio’s Second Frutes. Gainsville: Scholars’ Facsimiles & 
Reprints, 1953. 

Teresa of Avila. The Interior Castle. Trans. Kieran Kavanaugh and Otilio Rodrigues. New 
York: Paulist Press, 1979 

Torriano, Giovanni. The Italian Reviv'd: or the Introduction to the Italian Tongue. London, 
1673. 

———-. Select Italian Proverbs; The most significant, very usefull for Travellers. London, 
1649. 

———-. Vocabolario Italiano & Inglese. London, 1659. 

——-—-. Vocabolario Italiano & Inglese. London, 1688. 

Volkmann, Ludwig. Ars Memorativa. Vienna: Anton Schroll, 1929. 

Willis, John. Mnemonica; or the Art of Memory, Drained out of the pure Fountains of Art 
& Nature. London, 1661. 

Wright, Louis B. Middle Class Culture in Elizabethan England. 1935; rpt. London, 1958. 

Yates, Frances, A. The Art of Memory. 1966; rpt. Harmondsworth: Penguin Books, 1978. 

——-—-. Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 
1966. 

———-. John Florio: The Life of an Italian in Shakespeare’s England. Cambridge, 1934. 

———-. Theatre of the World. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1969. 





ROBERT L. MODE 





Searching for Raphael: 
The Travellers’ Perspective 


Two centuries after the death of “the divine Raphael” in 1520, British travellers 
to the continent began to search with uncommon zeal for works by the Renaissance 
master. Both private collections and public galleries joined churches as pilgrimage 
sites for connoisseurs. Artists as well as young gentlemen “on tour” constituted 
the regular flow of visiting spectators, but female writers and male clergymen added 
considerably to the accounts of first-hand experiences with works by the reputed 
prince of painters. For more than a century thereafter it was common practice for 
cultured British travellers to acknowledge the influence of Raphael in their accounts 
of European travel. 

From the sixteenth century onward Raphael was admired, owing to the 
reputation earned by the artist and enhanced by Vasari in the Vite of 1550/1568. 
Although a full translation of the Lives of the Most Eminent Painters, Sculptors, 
and Architects was not available in English until the mid-nineteenth century, a 
useful abridged version was published at London in 1719.' The most popular 18th 
century Italian edition, published at Rome in 1759, was amply illustrated and 
annotated for an international readership. Moreover, what a foreign traveller could 
not get directly from the Vite came to him indirectly from Italian guides, whose 
remarks are reported as Vasari-based, both in anecdotal as well as informational 
terms.” 

British familiarity with the art of Raphael in the 16th-17th centuries had 
depended on literary or scholarly texts rather than direct contact with his work — 
with one major exception. In 1623 the prince of Wales, later Charles I, managed 
to acquire the original cartoons for the Sistine Chapel tapestries designed by 


1. Ten Italian editions of Vasari (through Passigli, 1832-1838), preceded that of Mrs. 
Jonathon Foster (London: Henry G. Bohn, 1850). The 1719 abridgement included a brief 
“Life of Raphael.” 


2. As a supplement to Vasarian references, Angelo Camolli published a Vila inedita di 
Raffaello da Urbino (Rome, 1790), based on what he claimed was a lost sixteenth-century 
manuscript that came from the Certosa library (Pavia). Camolli elaborated on a search for 
drawings after the antique conducted by Raphael (pp. 77-78) and the admiration of his 
discepoli (pp. 83-84; still, the formulaic adulation departs little from Vasari’s treatment. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


524 ROBERT L. MODE 


Raphael in 1516-1517, and these were spared when Parliament agreed to sell most 
of the royal collection in 1649-1651.° Located at the Hampton Court palace during 
most of this period, the cartoons had a reputation which rivalled that of the artist’s 
Vatican murals. Still, not everyone had permission to see them first-hand, even 
though reproductive engravings such as those by Sir James Thornhill made them 
familiar to a wider audience. 

The prevalence of prints after famous works by Raphael in Italy led Lambert 
Ten Kate to make the following remarks in the English translation (1732) of his 
Discours sur le beau idéal des Peintres, Sculpteurs, et Poetes, first published in 
1728: 


I have with pleasure seen, and with attention contemplated, the most famous prints 
done after the great master — (Bellori) could not distinguish them distinctly 
enough, especially as those pictures according to the testimony of Mr. Richardson 
are of a dark colouring, and also in an obscure apartment.‘ 


In the Descrizione delle imagini dipinte da Raffaelle d’Urbino of 1695, Bellori had 
attempted to correct Vasari’s account of the Vatican stanze while elaborating on 
essential Raphael works and principles in the preface to his Vite (1672).° Literary 
reports, from either Italian (Bellori) or British (Richardson) sources, only led to 
mediated ekphrasis when set beside visual evidence provided by engraved copies 
(mainly French) of hard-to-see art in private collections (mainly Italian) that consti- 
tuted the full Raphael legacy. 

Still it was the example set by Jonathan Richardson in his Account of 1720 
that set the stage for British travellers eager for cultural contacts with Italy. In 
allusions made to Raphael the Richardsons (both father and son) established the 
primacy of this High Renaissance master as a model to be shared by artists and 
connoisseurs.° Whereas France had been the prime destination for art-seekers a 
generation earlier (and would remain important throughout the eighteenth-century 
in times of peace), resurgent classicism combined with idealized notions of the Re- 
naissance to give Italy a new precedence. 


3. John Shearman, Raphael’s Cartoons in the Collection of Her Majesty the Queen and 
the Tapestries for the Sistine Chapel (London: Phaidon, 1972), p. 147. 


4. Lambert Ten Kate, Ideal Beauty in Painting and Sculpture, London, 1769 (originally 
translated The Beau Ideal in 1732), pp. 31-35. Referring to the frescoes in the Stanza della 
Segnatura, Ten Kate admits that prints after these works may be “defective” and present 
“a mere fiction,” even while highlighting the linear details lost by viewing the originals in 
poor light conditions. 


5. See Anthony Blunt, “The Legend of Raphael in Italy and France,” Jtalian Studies, XIII 
(1958), 5-6. 


6. Jonathon Richardson, Two Discourses (London, 1719), p. 105 ff (from An Essay on the 
Whole Art of Criticism as It Relates to Painting). 





Searching for Raphael: The Travellers’ Perspective 525 


The basis for Richardsonian aesthetics was provided in An Essay on the Theory 
of Painting (1715) and The Art of Criticism together with The Science of a Connois- 
seur (1719). A respect for classical prototypes was seen as essential to the modern 
school of painters that began on Italian soil four hundred years earlier and culminat- 
ed with the generation of Raphael. One could journey to Italy and beyond for 
exposure to ruins and statuary, but there was only one route to the appreciation 
of lofty antique values in painting — via direct contact with art of the High Renais- 
sance.’ Thus Raphael was identified as the new Apelles, whose pictorial models 
promised aspiring connoisseurs a timeless standard of high taste worthy of emula- 
tion. 

Jeremy Black has identified two currents in the Grand Tour approach to such 
art — first, the aesthetic as described by Lord Nuneham (1755): “I am in high 
spirits at the thoughts of seeing Italy in so short a time, ever since I can remember 
I have been wishing to go into a country, where my fondness for painting and 
antiquities will be so indulged,” and then the materialistic as noted in Francis’ Hints 
to a Traveller: 


We English, before we see Italy, are apt to think that we can purchase the best 
works of the great masters and that many of them have actually been brought away 
within these few years.® 


The latter approach underestimated Italian determination to preserve their artistic 
patrimony, as confirmed by Northall (1753) when he warned of Roman guides 
passing off copies as originals by Raphael and his contemporaries.’ Even though 
an edict by Pope Clement XI of 1701 prohibited exporting statuary, bronzes, gems, 
and pictures from Rome, there was no enforcement of consequence.'® In any 
case, Raphael’s major paintings were immovable murals and many works in private 
collections were beyond papal control. 

The rare purchase of an original Raphael, such as the early Madonna and Child 
(now in the National Gallery) acquired by Lord Cowper, was handled by English 
agents. That these officials or private dealers were subject to inflated claims can 
be seen in the correspondence from Horace Mann to Horace Walpole dated on June 
4, 1743 that refers to a “Raphael” Christ sold from Cardinal Cybo’s collection. 
Mann refers to Mr. Chute’s interest in it (were there a commission) and appends 
a note from him which begins in the most laudatory manner: 


7. Richardson Jbid., p. 123. 
8. Jeremy Black, The British and the Grand Tour (London: Croom Helm, 1985), pp. 213- 
ZS. 


9. Ibid., p. 216. 


10. Hanss Gross, Rome in the Age of Enlightenment (Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press, 1990), p. 321. 


526 ROBERT L. MODE 


He says vastly true; I am quite wild about the Rafael; I know the Duke of 
B(eaufort) will buy it. Who would not give all he has sold for fourscore thousand 
pounds for such a heavenly picture?...Those who write of it from Rome compare 
it to the “School of Athens,” which you know I have not yet seen.!! 


Not only did Chute reveal! his own limited experience of Raphael’s work, but the 
manner in which absent collectors could be lured to consider works of questionable 
authenticity when attested to by a self-interested party who forged links to Roman 
family galleries. 

Still another connection was possible for the connoisseur who wished to re- 
experience an Italian masterpiece back in his native land. In 1752 the Earl of 
Northumberland, requested Mann to have Cardinal Albani commission copies of 
original works in Rome, including Raphael’s School of Athens. Together with the 
other works he admired by Reni and Carracci, they were undertaken by contempo- 
rary artists of the first rank. Thus Anton Raphael Mengs did the School of Athens 
(now in the Victoria and Albert Museum), while Pompeo Batoni copied the 
Farnesina ceiling frescoes by Raphael and his followers. Eventually the copies were 
all exhibited at Northumberland House in London during the spring of 1757." 

The bringing of full-size copies to England was no more a substitute for travel 
to Italy than was the importation of more portable prints and view paintings 
(vedute). Examples of these by specialists such as Piranesi and Canaletto served 
as reminders of sites once visited. To recall particular works of art, fine engrav- 
ings were available for framing or, more commonly, gathering into bound portfo- 
lios. Reproductive engravings after works by Raphael were continuously being 
made in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, coincidental with periods 
of the greatest continental touring." 

Artists were among the foremost travellers in search of Raphael, as might be 
expected. In 1764 the following advice appeared as a poem entitled “Lines to an 
English Painter”: 


Your genius and humour and talents and taste 

Each picture you paint plainly shows, 

But your time you misspend and your colours you waste 
For an Englishman “nobody knows.” 


11. W. S. Lewis (ed.), Horace Walpole’s Correspondence (New Haven: Yale University 
Press, 1973), XXxv, 37. 


12. Steffi Roettgen, Anton Raphael Mengs (1728-1779) and his British Patrons (London, 
1993), pp. 11-12. 


13. Prints after all the works of Raphael were gathered into a major study collection by 
Carl Ruland for Prince Albert, then moved from Windsor Castle to the British Library. 
Included are entire sets of reproductive copper and steel engravings (mainly French and 
British) that trace this popular form of replication. 





Searching for Raphael: The Travellers’ Perspective 327 


Go abroad—take your palette and pencils to Rome, 
And when you return from your tour 

If a few foreign graces and airs you assume 

You will charm a complete connoisseur. 


Go abroad, then, in Italy study virtu, 

No reward here your labours will crown, 

Every dauber from Rome is brought forward to view, 
But an Englishman’s always kept down." 


Aside from enhancing the reputation of an English artist, a long stay in Rome 
was especially recommended for its professional benefit, as indicated by the 
instructions from Benjamin West to a student setting out for Italy in 1788: 


As you are now about to leave England and visit the former greatness of the 
Italian schools of painting, it may not be improper for you to have my remarks 
in writing on the plan of your visiting those schools. I will therefore begin with 
the Romanas preeminent... The subjects (Raphael) has painted what painter is bold 
enough to attempt again with the least chance of success—it is for this he is so 
justly stiled the prince of modern painters-as the stile which I have already 
explained was made up from all he ever saw, therefore the extensionsness [sic] 
of his powers, made every man a painter that made him the subject of his 
emulation.!* 


West’s own experience while at Rome (1760-1763) had begun with his attention 
to the ancients; later he recalled in a letter: “What they have done in Statuary, 
Raphael seems to have acquiered in painting.”'® 

A young Joshua Reynolds had gone to Rome in 1750, where his first priority 
was avoiding English travellers who desired his services as a copyist: “Whilst I 
was at Rome, I was very little employed by them, and that little I always considered 
as so much time lost.”'’ He castigated others of his countrymen, noting: “Some 
Englishmen, while I was in the Vatican, came there, and spent above six hours 
in writing down whatever the antiquary dictated to them; they scarcely ever looked 
at the paintings the whole time.” Here he was referring to works by Michelangelo 


14. William T. Whitley, Artists and their Friends in England, 1700-1799 (London: The 
Medici Society, 1928), 1, 199. 


15. Franziska Forster-Hahn, “The Sources of True Taste: Benjamin West’s Instructions 
toa Young Painter for his Studies in Italy,” Journal of the Warburg and Courtauld Institutes, 
XXX (1967), 376-377. 


16. Ibid., p. 373. The Letter in question was written to John Singleton Copley in 1773 
to endorse the study of art in Italy. 


17. James Northcote, The Life of Sir Joshua Reynolds (London, 1818) 1, 34. The remark 
appears in a letter to Barry. 


528 ROBERT L. MODE 


and Raphael, adding with regard to the latter in particular: 


The Keeper of the Vatican told me that it has frequently happen(e)d, that after 
he has attended a Company and even Artists through the Rooms, when he was 
about taking his leave has been asked why he has not shewn them what they came 
principally to see—the works of Raffielle—an(d) that he has then led them back 
to the rooms which they had pass(e)d before. I confess I was not myself struck 
with Raffielle’s works as I expected, but what my expectations were I cannot 
tell.'® 


Reynolds used this occasion to relate how he returned again and again to study the 
Raphael paintings until gradually a “degree of Excellence” was recognized — 
whereas most visitors passed their judgments entirely on first impressions. 

Even before arriving in Rome the continental tourist had an opportunity to 
consider the finest achievements of Raphael. Thus at Dresden the Sistine Madonna 
commanded attention, though Martin Sherlock found equal merit in Correggio’s 
work there, lamenting in his Letters from an English Traveller (1780) that such 
broad appreciation fades when “he arrives in Rome. In all the companies where 
he goes, when painting is the subject, he hears no one named but Raphael.”!” 
If one stopped at Florence for a visit to the Medici collections, it was generally 
the Madonna of the Chair that received admiration just as it was reported by John 
Moore in A View of Society and Manners in Italy (1781): 


the picture which pleased him so much, was the famous Madonna della Seggiola 
of Raphael. Our instructor immediately called out Viva! and pronounced him a 
man of genuine taste; because without any previous knowledge or instruction, he 
had fixed his admiration on the finest picture in Florence.” 


Instruction from a local guide was often more enthusiastic than reliable. Having 
a tutor was a considerable advantage, as with Lord Parker and the learned Edward 
Wright, who provided a dictionary of artistic terms and index of painters as part 
of Some Observations made in travelling through France and Italy.”' Yet another 
arrangement was made by William Henry Lambton, who came to Italy for health 
reasons in 1796 with his family, and befriended the young artist William Artaud. 


18. Sir Joshua Reynolds, Discourses, XV, 12. 


19. Martin Sherlock, Letters from an English Traveller (London, 1780, p. 38). This 
account was published first at Geneva and Paris in French, before a revised translation was 
offered to British readers. 


20. John Moore, M.D., A View of Society and Manners in Italy (London, 1781), II, 428. 


21. The account by Wright, covering travels from 1720 to 1722, was published in London 
only in 1730. See Vittor Ivo Comparato, “Viaggiatori inglesi in Italia a Sei e Settecento: 
La formazione di un modello interprativo,” Quaderni Storici, XLII (1979), 873. 


Searching for Raphael: The Travellers’ Perspective 529 


This led to his asking Artauld for copies of portraits (one was of Raphael) plus an 
offer from the artist to guide Lambton through Rome’s many galleries.” 

Yet increasingly, it was the travel literature itself that served to recommend 
points of interest or else works of artistic merit. Thus Misson’s A New Voyage 
to Italy, first published in English at the turn of the century (1699), went through 
several editions that began with emphasis on its “curious Observations” and 
thereafter noted its “Useful Instructions for those who shall Travel thither” .” 
Misson himself, who had acted as a tutor to the Duke of Ormonde’s grandson, at 
first regarded the praise of Raphael and his peers as exaggerated based on a set 
of laudatory reports from an anonymous Veronese gentleman.” But upon arriving 
in Rome he visited the Vatican stanze and commented: 


The History of Aftila, by the incomparable Raphael, is always surrounded with 
Admirers. I have several Times observed with Pleasure the Earnestness and 
Attention with which the most competent Judges are wont to examine all its 
Beauties.”° 


Men of letters contributed regularly to this genre, starting with Addison’s 
Remarks on several parts of Italy, which included art notes from his visit to Rome 
in 1700, Richardson’s Account (1720) and Smollett’s Travels through France and 
Italy (1766).”° Women writers were especially popular late in the century, most 
notably Hester Lynch Piozzi and Mariana Starke. In Observations and Reflections 
(1789), Mrs. Piozzi reported on a visit to the Barberini palace while suffering from 
a “distracting toothache” that made her regard the portrait of Raphael’s mistress 
as “too coarse,” noting how “this picture gives litle satisfaction,” yet finally admit- 
ting “I must come again when less ill I believe.””’ Meanwhile Starke, in her 
Travels in Italy between the years 1792 and 1798, organized sightseeing itineraries 
in Rome “to prevent Travellers from wasting their time and burdening their 
memory by a minute survey of what is not particularly interesting,” focusing instead 


22. Kim Sloan, “William Artauld: History Painter and ‘violent democrat’ ,” The Burlington 
Magazine, CXXXVII, no. 1103 (Feb. 1995), 82. 


23. F. M. Misson, A New Voyage to Italy with Curious Observations on several Other 
Countries... together with Useful Instructions for those who shall Travel thither, 2 v., 
London, 1739. Frangois Maximilien Misson (ca. 1650-1722) was a French Huguenot who 
came to England in 1685, publishing his Nouveau Voyage d’ltalie first in French at The 
Hague in 1691. 


24. Camillo von Klenze, The Interpretation of Italy during the last two Centuries (Chicago: 
University of Chicago Press, 1907), p. 14. 


25. Misson, op. cit., II, 17. 
26. Livio Iannattoni, Roma e gli Inglesi (Rome: Atlantica, 1945), pp. 54-55. 


27. Hester Lynch Piozzi, Observations and Reflections made in the course of a Journey 
through France, Italy, and Germany (Dublin, 1789), p. 292. 


530 ROBERT L. MODE 


on “what really deserves the closest attention.”** On that basis the works of 
Raphael are amply covered, including those at the Farnesina, where she discrimi- 
nates between the art of “Raffaelle and his Scholars” to the extent of pointing out 
which of the Graces is “entirely executed” by the master.” 

For Mrs. Piozzi a return visit to a favorite site was always possible due to her 
long-term Italian residency. Somewhat later, in the course of a three-year family 
stay in Italy, H. D. Best was to remark: “It is even a disadvantage to have a six- 
month to spend in Rome; one sees things imperfectly, because one expects to see 
them again” — this from an individual who complained of lighting in the Vatican 
that “hinders the view of the picture,” and also of ceiling paintings in Raphael’s 
loggie “which cannot be viewed without straining the neck.”*” By the time Best 
chose to travel in the aftermath of ihe Napoleonic wars, a wider range of English 
visitors were touring Italy for trips of more varied duration. Fora shorter sojourn 
one only required Eustace’s A Tour through Italy (1813) or — for Italian-speakers 
in Rome — the more detailed text of Mariano Vasi’s Itinerario istruttivo di Roma 
antica e moderna (1816). 

Even during the wars with France travel was possible, though not without risk. 
Thus Joseph Forsyth, in his Remarks of 1816, gave a harrowing account of 
returning from a trip to Italy (where he had studied the “glorious works” of 
Raphael) in 1803, only to be interred in France once the Peace of Amiens ex- 
pired.*! There was, in fact, a unique opportunity in 1801-1802 to see some of 
the finest Raphaels from Italian churches and collections in Paris. With such major 
works as the Transfiguration and Madonna of the Meadow brought back by 
Napoleon, a gallery at the Louvre was used to feature the artist who was still so 
universally admired.” 

Both before and after this particular interlude, one other aspect of travel 
literature had considerable currency. This was the commentary of clergymen who 
regularly went to Rome with more scepticism than adulation where art was 
concerned. Thus the Rev. Alban Butler, in Travel through France and Italy during 
the years 1745 and 1746, notes the luxury of the Vatican palace with its five- 
hundred chambers “all of them adorned with the finest pictures in the world, the 


28. Mariana Starke, Travels in Italy between the Years 1792 and 1798 (London, 1802), 
I 337. 


29. Ibid., Il, pp. 24-25. 


30. Henry Digby Best, /taly as it Is, or Narrative of an English Family’s Residence for 
3 Years in that Country (London, 1828), pp. 341-342. 


31. Joseph Forsyth, Remarks on Antiquities, Arts, and Letters during an excursion in Italy 
(London, 1816), pp. 2-6. 


32. Martin Rosenberg, “Raphael’s ‘Transfiguration’ and Naopleon’s Cultural Politics,” 
Eighteenth-Century Studies, XIX, 2 (1985-1986), 180-205. 


Searching for Raphael: The Travellers’ Perspective 531 


most of which are very large, and a great number by Raphael d’Urbino.”** The 
Rev. J. C. Eustace was careful to note (in regard to the Disputation over the 
Sacrament) that: “the theologian will turn with reverence to the awful assemblage 
of divine and human beings . . . that fill the picture and give a just representation 
of the sublime objects of his profession.”™ 

As the nineteenth-century attitudes of British travellers shifted from admiration 
of Raphael’s timeless talent to close readings of his context and/or content, the 
search for direct experience of his art changed emphasis. What had been a taste 
orientation for the eighteenth-century individual of “quality” turned increasingly 
didactic, in part owing to the advent of a canonical art history. After the publica- 
tion of J. D. Passavant’s Raphael von Urbino und sein Vater Giovanni Santi in 1839 
— with its immediate success and multiple editions — an informed visitor seeking 
Raphael in situ had fewer illusions to perpetuate. As engravings gave way to 
photographic reproductions, even the search for authenticity was compromised. 
Raphael sitings soon bowed to Raphael studies, and different venues (closer to 
home) were found for testing the claims of Pre-Raphaelitism. 


Vanderbilt University 


33. Rev. Alban Butler, Travel through France and Italy during the Years 1745 and 1746 
(Edinburgh and London, 1803), p. 267. 


34. Eustace, op. cit., 1, 293. 


JEREMY BLACK 


Italy and the Grand Tour: The British 
Experience in the Eighteenth Century’: 


Lord Cholm—y’s intended departure for the Continent, is not, it seems to revive 
the languid flame of love in a personal visit to Miss Dal—ble, that affair having 
been long at an end and the lady perfectly happy in the arms of a new inamorato: 
his Lordship’s tour however is not to be of a very solitary nature, as one of the 
most accomplished women of this island has actually consented to accompany! 


Readers of the Morning Herald of 11 April 1781 would not have been surprised 
by such an item of fashionable gossip. The notion of tourism as a means for the 
pursuit of pleasure was well established and any focus on the didactic goal of travel 
was constantly undercut by a very different reality of pleasure: the discourse of 
social benefit clashing, as so often, with the dictates of individual pleasure. In the 
eighteenth century travel to Italy can be seen as representing the summation of both 
processes, and much of the interest in reading the accounts of contemporary tourists 
reflects the preserve there of differing aspirations. Italy was at once the focus of 
artistic, and more generally cultural, education and a peninsula of pleasure, whether 
the delights in question were, for example, those of opera or the more sensual joys 
for which Venice was noted.” 

Yet the attraction of Italy for some was being undercut by the degree to which 
it seemed to represent the past, not simply the past of classical splendour and culture, 
the past that inspired Gibbon among others, but also the past of the present. For 
the British, modern Italy appeared a land in the grips of reaction. Its reputation 
as a haunt of superstition and reaction was exacerbated by Italy’s connection with 
Jacobitism, specifically as the place where the last Stuarts took refuge and ended 


1. I would like to thank David Atkinson, Joe Links, Philip Morgan, Mark Stocker and Henry 
Summerson for their comments on earlier drafts of this paper. 


2. There is an extensive literature on the Grand Tour and Italy. British tourists can be traced 
through R. S. Pine-Coffin, Bibliography of British and American Travel in Italy to 1860 
(Florence, 1974). Recent work can be approached via Jeremy Black, The British Abroad. 
The Grand Tour in the Eighteenth Century (Stroud, 1992). The work of E. Chaney is also 
valuable, particularly his “The Grand Tour and Beyond: British and American Travellers 
in Southern Italy, 1745-1960,” inE. Chaney andN. Ritchie (eds.), Oxford, China and Italy: 
Writings in Honour of Sir Harold Acton (London, 1984). 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


Italy and the Grand Tour 533 


their days. In particular, there was a marked failure to realise the degree to which 
there was an Enlightenment in Italy and, more specifically, to understand the extent 
to which, particularly in Lombardy, Parma and Tuscany, there were attempts to 
‘reform’ and ‘modernise’ government and society as understood by contemporary 
standards. Instead, Italy appeared to be dominated by autocratic rulers and Catholic 
superstition. 

Part of the problem was the shift in attitude towards Italian republicanism. 
In the seventeenth century Venice had appeared not only as a seat of pleasure but 
also as a model of civic virtue. Genoa had never enjoyed the same renown, but 
it had also benefited from the favourable interest displayed in Italian republics. 
By the eighteenth century the situation was different. As yet there was no 
widespread aesthetic of splendid decay, though Venice’s appeal was still as strong 
as a centre of culture and pleasure. However, it was seen as an increasingly inconse- 
quential state, a model only of rigidity. Genoa’s reputation was damaged by the 
rebellions of its Corsican colony, and it also seemed inconsequential and rigid. 
Lucca was essentially a pleasant curiosity, a lovely backwater. 

If the current political interest of Italy was in decline, the peninsula was also 
of scant or declining interest in other fields. The numerous tourists interested in 
military activities - in viewing manoeuvres or attending military academies - aimed 
essentially for Prussia for the former and France for the latter. The prestige of 
Italy as a land of the present was in decline. It was still important in spheres such 
as science, medicine and music, but even in these it was in apparently relative 
decline, especially by the second half of the century. A musical world that looked 
to Vienna, Mannheim and Paris had less time for Italy. Transalpine Europe was 
more important in science. 

In the case of British tourists, this tendency was accentuated by the particular 
development of Britain in this period. Tourists from the social elite of a burgeoning 
economy and an apparently successful political system, from a great and powerful 
world empire, were less inclined to feel a sense of inferiority than in the seventeenth 
century; at that time, to its own people, Britain had seemed superior in little besides 
its Protestantism. By the eighteenth century, in spite of the popularity of Batoni, 
Mengs, Piranesi and other Rome-based artists, it appeared that the country of Newton 
and Sloane, Reynolds and Watt, had little to learn from modern Italy. One of the 
more successful books by an Italian author read in Britain was the 1739 English 
edition of Francesco Algarotti’s 1] Newtonianismo per le Dame (1737), in which 
the theories of light and gravitation were explained in a series of dialogues: an 
Italian serving to reflect back British greatness. In a similar fashion, Canaletto, 
with his splendid canvases, used talents developed to depict Venice to show the 
glories of modern London. A neo-imperial, modern pride of London was expressed 
in his views. 

The London on show had modern buildings such as the Greenwich Observatory, 
Somerset House and Westminister Bridge, and the rebuilt Westminster Abbey. 


534 JEREMY BLACK 


There was no contemporary equivalent in Venice and this offers an important clue 
to shifting views about Italy. Tourists concentrated on cities in the eighteenth 
century: they spent most of their time there and, until the end of the century, there 
was no cult of mountains or seaside to detract from this metropolitan focus. 
Individual tastes varied, but, in general, there was a marked preference for modern 
over old architecture, for the classical over the Gothic. This was true both of 
individual buildings and of townscapes. 

Much of Italy was a bad disappointment from this perspective. George Berkeley 
praised the regularity of Catania, rebuilt in Baroque style after the devastating 
earthquake of 1693,* but few tourists penetrated as far as Sicily. Those who did 
were more interested in Greek remains and more likely to visit Palermo or Messina 
than Catania. Turin, with its rectilinear street pattern and squares, met with 
approval: in 1779 Nathaniel Wraxall found it ‘a very elegant, well built, pleasant 
city’. Most towns, however, seemed cramped, their close-packed medieval centres 
associated with dirt, disease and poverty. As in the countryside, moral order was 
reflected, and moreover replicated and reinforced ideologies and the socio-cultural 
order. This tied into the wider metaphor of the city/urbs as a reflection of society; 
of the shifting meanings that urban landscape accumulate and lose. Cathedrals such 
as Padua, Pisa and Verona were medieval and gloomy, as were Lucca’s churches. 
The dominant buildings were generally ecclesiastical in purpose and that did not 
commend them to most British tourists. There were new palaces, particularly the 
Bourbon creations of Caserta and Colorno, but they did not attract many visitors. 

There was certainly no combination of buildings to compare with those 
constructed in London since the Great Fire of 1666. This period has been seen 
as one of the great rebuilding of British cities. Brick buildings with large windows 
were built in a regular ‘classical’ style along and around new boulevards, squares 
and circles. Parks, theatres, assembly rooms, subscription libraries, race-courses 
and other leisure facilities were opened in many towns. The total stock of public 
buildings in the West Riding of Yorkshire rose from about ninety in 1700 to over 
five hundred by 1840. This was also the period of the creation of Georgian Bath 
and Liverpool and Dublin, the New Town of Edinburgh and the West End of 
London. In the 1750s London rebuilt itself in a rational, measured and modern 
fashion, representing the wider health and progress of Britain. There was no 
equivalent in Italy. 

A similar contrast also appeared to be the case in the countryside, although 
tourists devoted far less attention to it. Much of Italy seemed poorly cultivated 
or barren compared to the new-model agriculture of enclosing England. There was 
also no series of new stately homes open to respectable tourists as in Britain, no 


3. E. Chaney, “Architectural Taste and the Grand Tour: George Berkeley’s Evolving Canon,” 
Journal of Anglo-Italian Studies, 1 (1991). 


Italy and the Grand Tour 535 


Castle Howard or Blenheim. Tourists paid great attention to Palladianism and, 
particularly in the first half of the century, a visit to Vicenza was considered an 
essential part of the Italian section of the Grand Tour. Palladianism marked an 
important cultural shift: English Palladians, Burlingtonand Kent, abandoned Rome 
for Vicenza and presented the Baroque as Catholic, ‘absolutist’ and architecturally 
impure. In his The Palladian Landscape (Leicester, 1993), Denis Cosgrove has 
discussed the process by which urban and rural were fused into one holistic and 
encompassing vision of order. Most of rural Italy, however, did not offer Palladian 
gems. Furthermore, the pleasure of travelling through Italy compared to Britain 
deteriorated during the century, because the Italian road system did not improve 
anywhere near as much as that of Britain (or France). Lord Hervey, touring Italy 
with Stephen Fox, versified his comments in 1729: 


Throughout all Italy beside, 

What does one find, but Want and Pride? 
Farces of Superstitious folly, 

Decay, Distress, and Melancholy: 

The Havock of Despotick Power, 

A Country rich, its owners poor; 
Unpeopled towns, and Lands untilled, 
Bodys uncloathed, and mouths unfilled. 
The nobles miserably great, 

In painted Domes, and empty state, 

Too proud to work, too poor to eat, 

No arts the meaner sort employ, 

They nought improve, nor ought enjoy. 
Each blown from misery grows a Saint, 
He prays from Idleness, and fasts from Want.‘ 


These impressions were of varied importance for individual tourists, but, in 
combination, they helped to mark the degree to which Italy increasingly appeared 
a country of the past; and that increasingly became, for many, its glory, especially 
in the way Piranesi immortalised that past. This shift can be considered in a number 
of lights. The degree to which Italy’s past was embraced while its present was 
shunned reflected a changing perception of both past and present and of the interplay 
between the two. As already mentioned, Italy at present appeared less attractive, 
and certainly no model, both because of changes in Britain and because the reasons 
why Italy had been criticised the previous century - Catholicism, Papacy, autocratic 
government and rigid society - were no longer matched by the same degree of 
compensatory respect for Italian republics and praise of her culture and intellectual 
life. 


4. Hervey to Lady Hervey, 27 Aug. 1728, British Library, Department of Manuscripts, 
Additional Manuscripts 51345 ff 18-19. 


536 JEREMY BLACK 


The links between contemporary Italy and her past glories appeared increasingly 
tenuous in the eighteenth century. This was particularly a consequence of the 
declining reputation of modern Venice. The republican liberty and energy of 
classical Rome could be presented through the refracting example of Venice in the 
seventeenth century, but such an association appeared less credible in the eighteenth. 
Alan Brodrick, later 2nd Viscount Midleton, was disabused of his notion ‘of the 
grandeur of the noble Venetians’ when he visited the Senate in 1724.° Instead, 
there was greater interest in republicans and republics outside Italy, especially in 
the second half of the century in Corsica, Geneva and the United States of America. 

It is also important to note the great increase in interest in classical Italy among 
tourists in the eighteenth century. Richard Creed, who visited Rome in 1699-1700, 
made only one mention of Roman remains: his was very much an account of 
Baroque Rome. Such an emphasis would have been unthinkable sixty years later 
and indeed in 1705 Metcalfe Robinson wrote to his father from what he termed 
‘the famousest place in the world and the first motive that induced me to become 
a traveller: for indeed ever since I knew the name of Rome, and much more as 
I got an insight into its greatness and the stupendous effects of it in buildings, 
aqueducts, ways, sculpture etc. which yet are to be admired in these glorious remains 
of antiquity; I found always my desire increase of having a better knowledge of 
them, than is to be found in descriptions, and rather to admire the things 
themselves’.° The excavations at Herculaneum and Pompeii, which began in 1738 
and 1748 respectively, played a major role in the development of European taste, 
in part thanks to the relative inaccessibility of classical remains in Turkish-ruled 
Greece and Asia Minor. Neo-classical excitement and enthusiasm, not to say hype, 
in the 1770s and 1780s about the discoveries was very influential. There were also 
important excavations in and around Rome. The Neo-classical painter and 
archaeologist Gavin Hamilton excavated Hadrian’s villa at Tivoli in 1769. The 
sculptures and other remains that were discovered in such excavations helped to 
bring an important revival of aesthetic appeal to interest in the classical world. 

British tourists had a strong grounding in the classics and many compared the 
sites with descriptions by for example Horace, Lucan, Pliny, Strabo and Virgil. 
The sculptures themselves, however, and, more generally, the entire Neo-classical 
aesthetic, forexample Winckelmann’s ecstatic description of the Apollo Belvedere, 
helped to bring greater appeal to the classical world. The British sought to 
appropriate Classical Italy. 

Thus tourists became more interested in Italy past. This affected their response 


5. Alan Brodrick to his father, Viscount Midleton, 7 Oct. 1724, Guildford, Surrey Record 
Office, Brodrick Mss. 1248/6. 


6. Metcalfe to Sir William Robinson, 15 Dec. 1705, Leeds, Archive Office, Vyner Mss. 
6005. 


Italy and the Grand Tour 537 


to what they saw and also their itinerary. For example the Greek Doric temples 
at Paestum near Naples attracted increased tourist attention from mid-century. They 
played a major role in the controversy of the late 1760s over the respective merits 
of Greek and Roman styles. The Greek remains of Agrigento in Sicily also excited 
interest. 

Such sites were a world away from the Italy that modern reformers were striving 
to create. Indeed they took on much of their appeal from the degree to which past 
glory contrasted witha setting of present insignificance, poverty and backwardness. 
The remains thus served to demonstrate the cyclical nature of history: Italy, 
particularly Rome, was a memento mori of civilisation. Edward Southwell junior 
wrote from Rome in 1726, 


I have spent 3 months with great pleasure and some profit among the ancient and 
modern curiosities of this famous city, which have cost me daily reading and 
application and filled 140 pages in my journal and I must own these heaps of 
magnificent ruins, and the view of so many places not only renowned for the actions 
and fate of so many heroes, but by the pens of so famous writers do fill the mind 
with great ideas of the Roman grandeur as also with various reflections upon the 
vicissitudes of all human things. 


Edward Gibbon wrote that the Capitoline Hill ‘gave ample scope for moralising 
on the vicissitudes of fortune, which spares neither man nor the proudest of his 
works, which buries empires and cities in a common grave’.’ 

Such reflections were a standard cultural trope. Italy was nowa stage depicting 
their validity. A stereotypical perception of Italy and the Italians as a country and 
a people both elevated and humiliated by the past had emerged. Eighteenth-Century 
Britain was an example of the process discussed by Steven Daniels in his Fields 
of Vision (London, 1993) by which modern, progressive nations frequently resorted 
to Rome in two ways: first to claim Rome’s mantle of civilisation and secondly 
for the spectre of empires-fallen, both to reflect their present potency, by contrast 
and also, on occasion, as an admonishment against complacency. The remembrance 
of the Classical past was linked to the process by which impressions of Britain were 
reconstituted in, and by, Italy. Similarly, at a time of relentless modernising, Italian 
fascism turned to the classical past of Rome’s historical legitimacy, but also a 
counterpoint to such modernism. 

The popularity of Gibbon’s Decline and Fall helped further to focus the sense 
of the vicissitudes of the past and the related morality of history on the decline of 
Rome. That Rome was now the centre of Catholicism did not lessen this sense 
of flux and decline in the perception of Protestant Britons. For those who wished 
to make comparisons with modern Britain as a warning about possible decline Rome 


7. Southwell to Lord Perceval, 9 April 1726, BL. Add. 47031; E. Gibbon, The History of 
the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, edited by J. B. Bury (London, 1900), vu, 301. 


538 JEREMY BLACK 


was of great potency. The imaginative map and idiom of such comparisons was 
to be widened as Britain acquired an Indian-based Oriental empire from the 1750s 
on. This encouraged comparison with imperial Rome because, unlike Britain’s 
North American empire but like that of imperial Rome, the new British empire 
had no ethnic underpinning and was clearly imperial. Writers in the tradition of 
civic humanism, and later Romantic writers such as Byron, Shelley and De Quincey, 
searched for points of reference around which to discuss and resonate their anxieties 
about the effects of empire upon metropolitan culture.* Imperial Rome was the 
obvious focus of such a search for parallel. 

In 1792 the Reverend Thomas Brand, ‘bearleader’ (travelling tutor or governor) 
to Lord Bruce, wrote to his friend, long standing correspondent and fellow Anglican 
divine, the Reverend Thomas Wharton, from Palermo, 


We have had a little specimen of Sicilian travelling in a three days excursion to 
Segeste where is the finest remain of Doric Architecture in the Island. - It is in 
excellent preservation and commands a country which once I suppose was 
unequalled over the whole surface of the globe - What a country would this be 
with spirit of commerce and industry with well educated nobles and with a 
government regulated by Wisdom and Equity. And what a desert it is at present. 
For about 16 miles from Palermo the road is excellent, thanks to a bishop of great 
wealth and public spirit - beyond it is rugged and precipice or mud. There is not 
a wheel in the whole country, the roads are mere paths for a single mule and the 
few huts scattered round are as bad as Hottentot Kraals - we slept at Alcamo - 
Climate and Nature will do a great deal cramp them as you will: hence the vast 
population of the little towns - but they have the air of savages and it is still prudent 
tho’ not absolutely necessary to go armed and attended by what is called a 
Campieri. 


Brand continued by comparing England and Sicily as ‘the two countries which are 
the extremes of Civilisation and negligence’.’ In short, Italians were unfit to inherit 
their Classical past, and it was reasonable, indeed necessary, for it to be appropriated 
by the “civilised” British. Similarly, the Tribuna of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, 
the ultimate ‘art gallery’ of eighteenth century tourism, was seen as important, in 
part, because it provided a context for aesthetic display on the part of tourists, as 
in the posing milordi of Zoffany’s painting of 1772-80. The appreciation of the 
wonders of ancient, Renaissance and Baroque civilisation did not therefore lead 
to a positive appraisal of modern Italy. Instead, it was the opposite that was the 
case: Italy was seen as ‘decivilised’. In contrast, the ‘South Seas’ of the Pacific 
Ocean that were being explored by the Europeans in this period and were making 
a powerful impact on fashionable opinion, were seen as at once uncivilised by 


8. N. Leask, British Romantic Writers and the East. Anxieties of Empire (Cambridge, 1993). 
9. Brand to Wharton, 3 April 1792, Durham, University Library, Wharton papers. 





Italy and the Grand Tour 539 


European standards and yet offering a glimpse of primitive virtue in terms of a 
true civic society, a communal ‘noble savage’. There was no sense in these cases 
of the fall from civilised grace that Italy seemed to provide. Indeed much of Italy 
seemed decadent, fallen as a consequence of cultural, social and psychological faults 
from Classic splendour and, as such, part not of the reforming Europe of apparently 
Enlightened progress, but an extension of the Orient. This was a period of growing 
Orientalism. Agrigento invited reflections similar to Greek antiquities or to Palmyra 
and other stages in the imaginative East. This was not simply an impression of 
deserted ruins such as Paestum. A sense of decay was also felt by tourists visiting 
the cities. John Mitford wrote of reaching ‘the decayed town of Pisa .... The 
buildings erected as receptacles for the victorious galleys of the republic, are now 
made the stables of the prince. The loss of liberty has reduced this once flourishing 
town from one hundred and sixty thousand inhabitants to about fifteen thousand’ .'° 
Rome was more populous and active, but the contrast between classical and modern 
Rome was one that emphasised present decay, Henry Carr wrote thence to his 
brother-in-law in 1739, 


As to the appearance of the town itself considering the very great numbers of 
palaces that are in it I believe most people are disappointed, for setting aside the 
churches, pillars and obelisks which are of themselves a great ornament the rest 
does not answer one’s expectation, the lower part of fine palaces being frequently 
let off and divided into little shops and greatness and meanness are so jumbled 
together (as we often see them in life in the same person) that the appearance they 
make upon the whole is but very indifferent, and even where the palaces are not 
so disguised, the contiguous houses being often ill built there is not any of them 
which strikes the eye at once like Grosvenor or St. James’s Square, or several 
other squares and streets we have in London." 


Piranesi’s prints led to tourists being disappointed when they saw the reality. Carr’s 
comparison with Britain, as with Brand, was typical. The tourists tell us as much 
about Britain and the British as about Italy and the Italians. Modern Britain was 
held to define civilisation, a view not commonly held in earlier times, and one that 
reflected the greater self-confidence and wealth of the British in this period. This 
was a fusion of Protestantism, economic growth, international success and the Whig 
myth. The last was more successful and lasting in creating standards by which 
Britain appeared superior to foreign countries than in sustaining a coherent and united 
viewpoint on domestic politics. British self-regard and condescension towards 
foreign countries, not least Italy, was not dependent oncontemporary foreign praise 
for Britain, although, in so far as British commentators and tourists were aware 
of it, it could not but have contributed. 


10. Mitford, Gloucester, County Record Office, D2002 F1, pp. 93-96. 
11. Gateshead, Public Library, Ellison papers A 28 n°. 63. 


540 JEREMY BLACK 


Thus Italy in this period was increasingly seen as a country slipping into the 
past, one whose present inhabitants were of limited consequence. The tourist 
experience became one in which awe and interest was focused upon Italy past and 
not developments in contemporary Italy. Gibbon stressed the appeal of the past: 


the footsteps of heroes, the relics, not of superstition, but of empire, are devoutly 
visited by a new race of pilgrims from the remote, and once savage, countries 
of the North.” 


This prefigured the obsession with sand, sea and sun in later tourism to the 
Mediterranean. The net result was the same. As more tourists travelled to Italy 
they knew and cared less about its current culture and society and, instead, saw 
the Italians as foreign to their concerns. This led to contempt, indifference or 
neglect; to a widespread ignorance about the country they were visiting. In addition, 
in so far as the ‘authentic’ cultural experience of travel was represented as being 
in the secret precincts off the ‘beaten track’ where it could be discovered only by 
the sensitive, true traveller and not the vulgar tourist,'* this authenticity, like the 
democratising and institutionalising tourism that developed in the nineteenth 
century,'* rested on an appreciation of historical Italy and of Italy as history. 
Venice had a particularly powerful and aesthetic appeal,'* but it was as a city of 
past splendours, a rich spectre of past glory. 

The extent to which the developing eighteenth-century perception hitherto 
discussed was linked with modern clichés about Italy is unclear. The nineteenth-- 
century Italian Risorgimento perhaps reawakened interest in Italy as a ‘proper’ 
country among British politicians and intellectuals with the theme of the nation 
striving for freedom and to an extent breaking the claims of the past. Not only 
did Byron obviously enjoy living in Italy, but with his links with the Carbonari, 
had strong sympathies with Italy’s aspirations towards political freedom, such as 
they were, and might easily have died in Italy instead of Greece. However, Italy’s 
reputation may have suffered from being the place of refuge chosen by dangerous 
radicals such as Byron and Shelley. Byron absolutely loathed most of the English 
travellers he met in Italy, except for other Bohemians such as Lady Blessington. 
The dubious lifestyles and opinions of British émigrés to Italy may not have done 


12. Gibbon, Decline and Fall, vil, 324-325. 


13. J. Buzard, The Beaten Track. European Tourism, Literature, and the Ways to ‘Culture’, 
1800-1918 (Oxford, 1993). 


14. The essential work for nineteenth-century tourism is J. Pemble, The Mediterranean 
Passion: Victorians and Edwardians in the South (Oxford, 1987). Valuable recent works 
include A. Corbin, The Lure of the Sea. The discovery of the seaside in the Western world, 
1750-1840 (Oxford, 1994) and F. Kaplan (ed.), Travelling in Italy with Henry James 
(London, 1994). 


15. T. Tanner, Venice Desired (Oxford, 1992). 











Italy and the Grand Tour 541 


much for the latter’s reputation among the compatriots of people like Shelley. 

Yet later in the century the cause of Italy became more popular, not least 
because revolution no longer seemed a serious prospect in Britain. Writers such 
as the Brownings and especially historians such as Trevelyan were very interested 
in Italy-present. Wordsworth was greatly influenced by ‘the idea’ of Italy, a fusion 
of Classical civilisation and landscape and hopes of modern regeneration, and 
engaged with Italian poets, moralists and historians;'® while Dickens, a keen 
supporter of the Risorgimento, devoted much space in the journals he edited to 
Continental topics.'? The local newspaper in William Bell Scott’s painting The 
Nineteenth Century, Iron and Coal, finished in 1861, carries an advertisement for 
a ‘Grand Panorama!!! Garibaldi in Italy. Struggles for Freedom ...’, a show that 
ran in Newcastle that March.'* The manner in which Garibaldi was applauded 
by working-class crowds when he visited England in 1864 testified to the way in 
which Victorians of all social classes were able to relate many of the events taking 
part on the Continent to their own struggles and aspirations. 

Yet such enthusiasm proved short-lived: once united, Italy ceased to arouse 
sympathetic interest, and even during the Risorgimento there had been an important 
element of condescension. In E. M. Forster’s times there was a lack of interest 
in modern Italy. The reconceptualisation of Italy that was such a powerful feature 
of its imaginative treatment by eighteenth-century British travellers has remained 
potent and dominant ever since. Apart from the republicanism of Garibaldi and 
the Risorgimento; and to an extent the apparent ‘order and backbone’ that Mussolini 
gave them, the Italians have since been regarded in such a fashion, as less civilised 
or developed. This can be readily seen in current attitudes, although it is less overt 
than in the past. However, modern discussion of Italian politics, and the sizeable 
publishing industry around guides, travel books and reminiscences of Italy both 
manifest this tendency. 


University of Durham 


16. A. G. Hill, “Wordsworth and Italy,” Journal of Anglo-Italian Studies, 1 (1991), pp. 
Pi t-125. 


17. M. Hollington, “Dickens and Italy,” /bid., pp. 126-136; K. Churchill, /taly and English 
Literature 1764-1930 (London, 1980); H. Fraser, The Victorians and Renaissance Italy 
(Oxford, 1992). 


18. P. Usherwood, “William Bell Scott’s Jron and Coal: Northern Readings,” in 
Pre-Raphaelites: Painters and Patrons in the North East, Laing Gallery exhibition catalogue 
(Newcastle, 1989), pp. 46-47, 55. 


ROBERT C. MELZI 


The Flight of Jews into Italy 
and the Testimony of some Italian 
Renaissance Plays 


According to a well-respected historian, Columbus’ voyage originated in an obscure 
port called Palos because most other ports in Andalusia and Castile were too busy 
loading Jewish refugees directed toward North Africa and Italy (Heers 243, as 
quoted by Zazzu 1991, 11). The veracity of this statement is certainly arguable, 
but it is proof that lack of solid historical foundations is the first problem one 
encountered as we attempt to describe the flight of Jews and Marranos into Italy 
during the last years of the fifteenth and all of the sixteenth century. The problem 
is exacerbated by the fact that statistics, often based upon wrong numerical bases, 
have been used by many historians, eager to prove their points. This and many 
other shortcomings appearing in historical treatises on the subject have been 
recently brought to the forefront by Robert Bonfil who warned that, unless one 
takes in consideration the relation between religion and society, one’s perspective 
risks being seriously skewed (Bonfil 1994, 101).' In this case, the problem is 
augmented by the difficulty of defining the word “Marrano.” As far as the Jews 
are concerned, how does one begin to describe their arrival in Italy, when some 
of them had lived in that country ever since the times of the Romans? 

The word “Marrano” has been treated differently by dictionaries and 
encyclopedias in different countries, proving that the lexicographer, being the 
mirror of society, brings necessarily into the dictionary foibles, idiosyncrasies, and 
biases, thus catering to the desires of the majority of readers. Spanish dictionaries 
not only defined the word “Marrano” as meaning “pig,” but added the meanings 
of “cursed” and “excommunicated” (Terreros y Pando, 2:534, Diccionario de la 
lengua castellana, 4:504). Italian dictionaries, on the other hand, beginning with 
the Vocabolario degli Accademici della Crusca (the first edition of 1611 does not 
even carry the entry) emphasized the fact that the word had been used by the 
Spaniards with the same meanings. At the same time, the Italian dictionary pointed 
out that “Marrano” was an offensive epithet hurled upon Jews and Moors who, 


1. I should like to express my debt of gratitude to Prof. Bonfil of the University of Jerusalem 
who has put to my disposal the draft of an article, entitled “Italy — The Sad Epilogue in 
the Expulsion of the Jews from Spain,’’ in the process of being printed and due to appear 
in English and in Spanish. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


The Flight of Jews into Italy 543 


after having converted, still practiced their own religion in secret. Accordingly, 
in Italy, the word had acquired the meaning of “disloyal person,” or “traitor.” 
If we want to seek the testimony of a contemporary writer, we find Ambassador 
Senarega calling them “quos vulgus Marranos appellat qui cum occulte Judei essent, 
publice tamen se Cristiani appellare volebant” (Senarega as quoted by Zazzu, 51). 

Very probably the most succinct history of the Marranos has been outlined 
by Uri Zolter, who quite recently posed the question in an interesting article which, 
unfortunately, did not receive the recognition it deserved. It is very hard to unravel 
the question of who the Marranos really were, first of all because, by their own 
nature, they were secretive intheir lives, religion, and activities, and generally tried 
to efface their identities. Furthermore, scholars contributed to the confusion, 
calling them variously “Marranos,” “Cristianos nuevos,” “Conversos,” 
“Ponentinos” and, at times, even referring to them simply as “Portuguese Jews”. 
Pullan defined them as “immigrants from Portugal and from Spain who had Jewish 
blood and some experience in living, at least outwardly, as Catholics (xiii).” In 
the same book, Marranos are defined as “Judaizing New Christian emigres” 
(Pullan, 49). In emphasizing their economic importance, Bonfil states that “From 
the third decade of the 16th century, one group of Levantine Jews and Conversos 
began to make a marked impression in Italy” (1992, 2:222), adding one more 
dimension to the nomenclature. Many Jewish historians saw in Marranism the 
attachment of Jews to Old Testament religion, disregarding the teachings of the 
Talmud, in other words, a simplified religion transmitted from generation to 
generation (Pullan, 203). Some scholars have even introduced the question whether 
“Marranism” really existed: was it a figment of the imagination of lay and religious 
authorities: or was it the product of the opposition by the Old Christians who 
refused to accept and absorb the New Christians? The problem may be summed 
up in the following terms: Marranos have been described as Catholics wihtout faith 
and Jews without knowledge; they have been described as excellent Catholics, had 
they only been left alone; or, finally, they have been described as people who really 
did not observe either religion. In spite of the sub-categories suggested by Julio 
Caro Baroja, Pullan is probably right when he remarks that the typology often faded 
from one type to another (223). It seems to me that the entire dispute is simply 
academic, and it is not really important to determine whether Marranos were 
dissemblers or heroes, because, as it generally happens, there were in their midst 
members who belonged to both categories. 

One further problem lies in the fact that, whenever Marranos converted to 
Catholicism, either in Spain or in Italy, they often assumed the Spanish, 
Portuguese, or Italian names of the Christians who had served as godfathers for 
them (Pullan, 106). From the point of view of the Church, those who had been 
forced into baptism were considered somehow innocent and were seldom 
prosecuted, while those who had willingly accepted the new Christian religion, only 
to forsake it later on, were considered dangerous heretics. In sixteenth-century 
Italian political and ecclesiastical correspondence frequent references were made 


544 ROBERT C. MELZI 


to “Marrani,” usually denoting former Iberian Christians who had gone the whole 
way and reverted to normative Judaism in Italy (Israel 1985, 3). It seems, 
therefore, clear that we shall never know how many Jewish immigrants arriving 
in Italy had already been baptized. What is equally clear is that the Papacy (at least 
until Paul IV’s pontificate) favored the arrival of converted Jews and Marranos 
into Ancona, as it is clear by the action of Pope Paul II who, in 1541, invited into 
that port city Jews and Marranos who had reverted to Judaism. The process of 
immigration of “Marranos” into Italian states continued unabated, and we find Duke 
Ercole d’Este in 1551 issuing a safe-conduct to the “nazione hebraica lusitana e 
spagnola” that may have been prompted by the expulsion to the Marranos from 
Venice one year prior (Israel 1985, 45). The game of musical chairs continued 
until 1569-70, when Emanuel Philibert of Savoy enticed some of the refugees from 
the Papal States into Piedmont, and even invited former Marranos and Levantine 
Jews to settle in Nice, promising them immunity from the Inquisition (Israel 1985, 
47). In 1589, Duke Ferdinand of Tuscany issued the “Livornina,” inviting 
Levantine and Ponentine Jews to settle in Livorno, and promising them protection 
from the Inquisition. 

While it seems undeniable that the economic importance of the Marranos in 
Italy cannot be discounted, neither can we forget that the popes themselves vied 
for the privilege of having Marranos plying their trade in the Papal States, under 
the pretext that the newly-invited guests could always justify their double identity 
on the ground that, while in Portugal, they had been forced into baptism (Bonfil 
1992, 2:223). The simple fact of being Catholics facilitated their lives enormously, 
so that we find the cream of Venetian nobility opening their doors to many rich 
Marranos, even when it was publicly known that they secretely followed the Mosaic 
religion. The Marrano tombs in Venice’s II Lido, surmounted by the crests of the 
noble Portuguese families to which they belonged are testimony to their importance 
in the economic life of the “Serenissima. ” 

As we have seen, we lack almost completely unbiased historical sources 
describing the arrival of Marranos in Italy. We have, however, the testimony of 
a few Italian Renaissance comedies that describe the plight of Marranos in their 
flight from Spain into Italy.” Of the many Italian Renaissance plays in which Jews 
either are referred to or play an important role, one stands out for referring to the 
protagonists as “Marranos.” It is the Comedia intitolata SINE NOMINE, printed 
by the Giuntis in Florence in 1574. In spite of Allacci’s contention of this play 
having been published in 1554 (714), Jacopo Giunti’s dedication is dated December 
1573; since the few copies extant in the USA and the copy preserved at the British 
Library only mention the 1574 date, we can safely assume that the date alleged 


2. The justification for using Italian Renaissance comedies as historical tools has been made 
at great length in another forum and I shall refer to RLA (294-296) for this topic. 








The Flight of Jews into Italy 545 


by Allacci is a simple “lapsus calami.” 

Alonso, the protagonist, is a “Marrano” who had to flee his native Barcelona 
and had even beeen forced to change his name to Rodrigo for fear of the “rabbia 
della severa Inquisitione” (12). His house has been burned and he had to flee to 
the Island of Mallorca, where the Inquisition pursued him again, so that, with his 
son, Fernando, he succeeded in reaching Florence. Another son, Alvaro, had been 
saved by a servant, Padilla, and, always because of the Inquisition’s unrelenting 
pursuit, had also to flee Mallorca. The father, one of his sons, a daughter and the 
wife, all wind up in Florence, unbeknownced of each other. Through a series of 
vicissitudes, typical of the “commedia erudita,” they finally recognize each other 
and the play ends with complete bliss. While the afflictions of the “Marranos” 
are only a pretext for inserting the old worn-out devices of the “agnizione,” there 
are in the play several clues that are worth while pointing out. 

Although we do not know what the route of the Marranos was in their journeys 
from Spain and Portugal to Italy, the unknown author of our play seems to know 
that there was in Mallorca a flourishing colony of Marranos (Israel 1985, 35; 
Forteza Pina, 1966). Although the author does not seem to know that the 
inhabitants of the island themselves had been extremely cruel vis-a-vis the 
Marranos, he places the entire responsibility for the plight of the refugees on the 
shoulder of the Spanish Inquisition. The author might have known about the Jews 
in Mallorca through a pamphlet, a “Dispute between Ingato Contardo and the Jews 
of Mayorca” that was circulating in manuscript form in the fifteenth century 
(Brizzolaro, photo #5). The mention of a stop in Venice or Padua seems to be 
historically plausible, since by 1569 Venice had given permission to Eastern Jews 
(those who declared their allegiance to the Sultan) and to “Ponentini” 
(Spanish-speaking Jews originating from Spain and Portugal) to return to the 
“Serenissima” (Pullan 150). We may furthermore point out that the expulsion order 
of the Jews from Venice issued in 1571 was never strictly observed and that most 
Jews returned to Venice between 1573 and 1574 (Israel 1985, 47). It is also 
perfectly logical for the author to have Marranos from Spain come to Florence, 
since there was in that city a flourishing Jewish colony, although relegated to the 
Ghetto (Israel 1985, 22). 

The play also contains some important clues on the status of Jewish 
money-lenders in Florence in 1573, and tends to confirm the belief of many 
historians that Marranos were well received in most Italian cities, in spite of Pope 
Paul IV’s attempt to eliminate the unwelcomed travelers not only from the Papal 
States, but also from the rest of the peninsula. 


* * * 


It should be emphasized that Jews had been living in Rome since Republican times. 
Some scholars date their arrival in Rome to the time of the embassy of Judas 
Maccabeus (151 B.c.), although the matter is far from clear (Scazzocchio Sestieri 
102). According to Cicero, in 59 B.c. the Jews were free citizens, enjoying great 


546 ROBERT C. MELZI 


influence in his own time and were well established in Rome when Pompey 
occupied Jerusalem in 63 A. D. (Berliner 17, 18). Some of the names of Jewish 
families clearly indicate the pride in their Roman origin; such is the case of the 
De Pomis who, in Zemach David (Venice, 1587) traced their ancestry to classical 
Rome, and of the Del Vecchio (or De Vecchi) family who assumed such a name 
to signify that they had been living in Rome prior to the arrival of such upstarts 
as the newly-arrived at the time of Titus (Berliner 89). 

Regardless of when Jews arrived in Rome, what interests us is the great 
migrations in the late fourteenth and early fifteenth centuries, partly from Spain 
and partly from Sicily. It was set in motion by the accession of Ferdinand and 
Isabella to the throne of Castile in 1474 which, in the words of Beinart, “marked 
the beginning of the end of Castilian Jewry” (1:36). The expulsion of the Jews 
from Spain is one of the salient points in the history of Western Civilization, and, 
as Baron declared, “One of the results of the persecution of the Inquisition was 
to set in motion historic trends which eventually were to change European 
civilization” (Baron 11:63). On the subject of the arrival of Jews from Sicily, we 
should immediately quote Bonfil, who casts a resounding doubt on the number of 
100,000 exiles from that island into mainland Italy. Bonfil remarks that the recent 
works of Milano, Ashter, and Trasselli, placing the number of Jews in Sicily at 
no more than 35,000 make the old figure of 100,000 advanced by Ferorelli some 
ninety years ago clearly unbelievable (Bonfil, “The sad Epilogue” 3; Renda 20). 
Only the date is undeniable, since Ferdinand ordered the expulsion of Jews from 
Sicily and Sardinia in the same year that he ordered the expulsion from Spain, 
namely 1492. The responsibility for the decree being executed rested squarely upon 
the shoulders of the Spanish Inquisition, and particularly upon those of the General 
Inquisitor, Torquemada (Renda 14, 15). 

Contrary to popular belief, Sicilian Jews not only looked like true Sicilians 
(Renda 13), and behaved more like Spaniards than Italians (Renda 33), although 
they seemed to have spoken mainly Sicilian dialect. They paid the same taxes as 
anybody else, with the exception that, as tributary serfs of the crown, the Jews were 
obligated to the sovereign for an additional burden. They plied many of the trades 
traditionally denied Jews alsewhere (Renda 36, 37). The proportion of Jews living 
in Sicily, prior to the expulsion, (5%) was greater than that of those living in Spain 
(2.5%). In spite of the constant intercourse between Christians and Jews, 
Franciscan and Dominican friars succeeded in arousing the local populace to the 
extent that in 1474 there were progroms against the Jews, a fact that might have 
influenced Ferdinand’s decision to extend to Sicily the decree of expulsion (Renda 
88). As usual, the Christian ruling class came to the Jews’ defence, claiming that 
the Jews had committed no crime, and clearly perceiving the damage that was to 
occur to the Sicilian economy. Apparently, Ibn Verga was right when, in 1554, 
he wrote in Shevet Jehudah: “I have never known a common-sense person who 
hated the Jews, with the exception of ignorant people” (Johnson 262, my translation 
from the Italian). 





The Flight of Jews into Italy 547 


The Sicilian decree became official two months after the date of the Spanish 
decree, but its execution was delayed until November 18th. Jews were to sell all 
their properties before leaving and to settle all of their debts with Christians and 
the State. They were not allowed to carry either metal coins, or cattle, although 
some documents seem to deny this fact. They were allowed to carry one suit of 
clothing and one mattress, although artisans were allowed to carry their tools. The 
first known journey from Palermo occurred on August 27th, when 350 people left 
for Calabria on board of three “saette” (Renda 115). The bulk of the exiles paid 
a heavy tax and were allowed to leave their homes for Messina, where they waited 
for the next passage. There are no records of where they went, although it is 
logical to assume that the majority went to North Africa, Greece, or Turkey. 
Others travelled to Naples and reached the territories of the Church. No one will 
ever know how many were massacred during their journey or were sold into 
slavery. 

Some Jews who decided to convert were allowed to change their names and 
stay; they did not suffer the indignities experienced by their Spanish counterparts 
who were called “Cristianos nuevos” and, as such, ostracized by the so-called 
“Cristianos viejos.” The Sicilian Jews who converted, however, were never 
allowed to completely melt into the Christian community. How many of them 
became, therefore, “Marranos”, will never be known, although documents reveal 
that, under the new Inquisitor, Diego Deza, almost 2,000 neophytes were 
prosecuted for Marranism. It is also known that, between 1531 and 1551, there 
were many auto-da-fes and that 100 men and 49 women were burned alive at the 
stake (Renda 150). It is remarkable that, once the expulsion was carried out, there 
was a complete cancellation of any mention of Jews in Sicily. It is as if Jews had 
never existed there. 

Of the Sicilian Jews who reached Rome, how well were they received by their 
coreligionists? Although there are varied opinions on the subject, it seems clear 
that many must have reached a certain level of commercial prosperity, if Israel 
remarks that in Rome power had to be balanced between “Italians” and “Sicilians” 
on the one side and “Spanish” and “Portuguese” on the other (Israel 1985, 196). 
To put matters in the proper perspective, let us not forget that, by 1586, the entire 
Jewish population of Rome amounted to no more than 3500 souls (Haliczer 21). 


* * * 


How many Jews refused to convert and embarked in Spanish ports for either North 
Africa or Italy is equally open to controversy; the figure of 50,000 advanced by 
Beinart (2:30) is probably too high; the more conservative figure of 10,000 
advanced by Zazzu (40) is probably correct. From Spanish ports many ships left 
for the Italian shores, laden with refugees; some arrived in Genoa prior to the 
deadline of March 11, 1492. Mons. Agostino Giustiniani reports that the poor Jews 
“erano creature di Dio, ancor che fossero differenti dalla religione Christiana” 
(Annali 2:565,66 as quoted by Brizzolari 75). The commiserating position taken 


548 ROBERT C. MELZI 


by Mons. Giustiniani (who happened to own a Bible in Hebrew now preserved in 
the Biblioteca Civica Bosio) is echoed by Senarega who reported the arrival of the 
hapless refugees from Spain. Many arrived, says Senarega, but could not stay 
more than three days, because of the Genoese custom not to allow any ship to 
remin in port, unless repairs were necessary. The exiles looked like “larvas” and 
were “macilenti, pallidi, oculi intrinsecus positis,” their babies dying of hunger 
in the arms of “matres semivive,” alongside the wharves (Senarega, as quoted by 
Zazzu 51). They were mostly destitute since, in addition to having been deprived 
of their fortunes, they had to pay for the passage. According to some contracts 
between the representatives of the Jewish community in the Kingdom of Valencia 
and the captains of the ships conveying the exiles, the embarkation fee was three 
ducats per person. Other contracts stipulated a fee of 37 “sueldos” per person; 
the discrepancy in fee most probably reflects differences in the types of ships used. 
In the case of large ships able to carry more than 400 persons, the Jews were 
allowed to board 14 passengers free of charge. Ordinary ships of smaller capacity 
reduced this number to ten. The most hideous burden was the limit of babies 
allowed to embark with their mothers (Hinojosa 115). Whether the entire family 
was allowed to embark upon payment of an additional fee, we do not know. In 
order to be allowed to disembark, many converted on the spot; others did so for 
sheer hunger, since children were received on the pier by friars who carried bread 
in one hand and the Cross in the other (Roth 377). 

The account is confirmed by Brizzolari, who states that one ship owned by 
Alessandro Lercari was allowed to remain in port only three days (Brizzolari 77). 
Brizzolari seems to indicate that the position taken by Genoa was a clearly 
anti-Semitic stance and quotes a document, called “De Judei non receptandis,” dated 
February 21, 1493. Zazzu is more lenient and tries to absolve the city of the 
charge of anti-Semitism, pointing out that, as far as the wealthy were concerned, 
the decree remained largely non-operative (71). Thus, when Naples expelled the 
Jews in 1494, many wealthy Jews arrived in Genoa, including the Abrabanel 
family, one of whom, Jehuda, was going to become famous under the name of 
Leone Ebreo. The poor, who had obviously opted for baptism, sought employment 
as servants, at times with fathers selling their daughters incomplete bondage, which 
at times also included sex. What interpretation one wants to give to the fact that 
there was no ghetto in Genoa until the subsequent French takeover of the city is 
open to conjecture. 

It seems that the treatment of Jews in Genoa varied according to which family 
was in power. When the Genoese populace rioted against the Jews, accusing them 
of the murder of a child, Pietro Fregoso addressed the crowd, reminding them that 
Jews were unable of committing such a crime (Zazzu 113). Ottaviano Fregoso, 
on the other hand, was, in the words of a contemporary Jew, Joseph ha Cohen, 
such an enemy of the Jews that his name ought to be forever cursed (Zazzu 39); 
the Adornos, on the other hand, who were sworn enemies of the Fregosos, were, 
in the words of the Jewish writer, excellent men. 





The Flight of Jews into Italy 549 


The position taken by the Genoese Republic, allowing wealthy Jews and Jewish 
physicians to remain in Genoa, seems to parallel the position taken by many popes, 
at least until the ascent to the papacy of Paul IV, who allowed the physicians to 
practice at the papal court. 


* * * 


Another avenue for the arrival of Jews in Italy, which represents one of the greatest 
glories of Italy is the school of medicine of the University of Padua. Between 1520 
and 1695, 29 Jews were allowed to receive the degree of doctor of medicine, a 
number that, for the time, seems to be extremely high. The Jews came to Padua 
from all over Europe, 3 from Padua itself; 1 from Benevento; 1 from Rome; 1 
from Fano; 2 from Mantua; 1 from Forum Julium; 1 from Florence; 1 from Pavia; 
1 from Imola; 4 from Germany; 1 from Hungary; 3 from Crete; 2 probably from 
the Ottoman Empire, since they are identified as “hebrei levantini”; 1 from Spain; 
1 from Belgrade; and 1 from Salonica (Carpi 1986, 69). Ata time when no other 
European university allowed Jews to matriculate, the position taken by the “Studio 
patavino” was an extremely enlightened one (Colorni 461) and gives luster to the 
university that saw the footsteps of Galileo and Harvey. 


* * * 


Many Italian Renaissance comedies can be used in order to ferret out what was 
the perception of the Jews in the eyes of the Christian majority; some authors 
portrayed their characters as puppets or stereotypes, and cannot be used for any 
sociological or psychological studies. Ariosto’s J/ Negromante, for instance, 
portrays a Jew, an exile from Spain, who is a scoundrel not because of any racial 
or religious characteristics, but simply because he is an evil character, bent on 
cheating his fellow men. As the tables are turned, and he is caught in the act and 
flayed for his crimes, the public does not feel any empathy for him, because, “1’arte 
che imita la natura non pate ch’habian |’opere d’un scelerato mai se non mal esito” 
(5, last scene). 

Other plays can be used as historical tools for the study of either commercial 
customs, or to buttress our views on social mores. Along this type, we have a 
group of plays by Giovan Francesco Loredan, the elder, that stand out because in 
them Venetian commercial customs are described, and because often the locale is 
set on the Dalmatioan coast. Keeping in mind that a Dalmatian Jew, Daniel 
Rodriguez, had proposed to reroute Venetian traffic thorough the ports of Ragusa 
(Dubrovnik) and Spalato (Split) (Israel 1985, 48; Israel 1992, 2:368), Loredan’s 
plays may yield many important clues. 

Loredan, born in the first half of the sixteenth century, died in Venice in 1590 
and wrote seven interesting plays, some of which were published posthumously 
by his son, Sebastiano. The father had the misfortune of being often confused with 
his better-known namesake, who was born in 1607 and is better known for his 
novels. Loredan the elder wrote 7 vani amori, La Malandrina, L’incendio, La 


550 ROBERT C. MELZI 


Turca, Berenice, La Matrigna, and II Bigontio, all plays either describing life in 
Venice or placing the characters on the Dalmatian shore, in many of the outposts 
that Venice had established there for fostering trade with the Orient. In addition, 
Loredan the elder had written eleven more plays that were lost during a shipwreck. 
Il Bigontio and L’incendio are set in Venice, a city he describes where one may 
well spend ten years of savings in six months. The description of Jews, very 
favorable in the Incendio, rather unflattering in the Bigontio, is believable exactly 
because of the author’s change of position in the plays and gives the seal of 
authenticity to the description of commercial customs and of legal and medical 
practices. 

Of the plays set on the Dalmatian coast, La Malandrina stands out because 
it is set in the city of Buccari. Many characters carry either Slovenian or Croatian 
names, such as Marcovicchio, obviously a Marcovic, or Scocco, obviously an 
Uscocco, and many other foreign-sounding names. The realism is enhanced by 
the use of jargon, typical of Venetian merchants, such as “cocali” for birds, and 
“mamola” for girl. La Matrigna, on the other hand, is set in Ancona, a city 
well-known for its traffic with the Orient and with Dalmatian ports. Ancona was 
also the preferred trading post of the Marranos and the play is replete with 
references to men who convert from the Jewish to the Christian religion and vice 
versa. Loredano’s plays can safely be used to gauge the importance of Venetian 
trade with the Orient and to establish the value attributed to the Jews in establishing 
trade posts so necessary for the economic well being of the Republic. 


* * * 


The amazing integration of the Jews within the social and economic fabric of Italy 
has been attributed to many factors. The lack of a central government created 
strong economic competition among the small principalities in which Italy was then 
divided, so that, when a duke or prince expelled the Jews from his territory, there 
was immediately another potentate ready to accept them. When, for instance the 
Marranos were expelled from Venice in 1550, they were immediately received in 
Ferrara (Bonfil 1992, 226; Roth 63). Venice itself, a Republic that was never 
known for being excessively favorable to the Jews, allowed them to stay, especially 
since it realized that Jews exported goods manufactured by Venetian artisans, and 
gave employment to more than four thousand people (Pullan 140). If one 
remembers that the large banking houses had withdrawn from granting private 
loans, the Jews, small bankers who provided loans to people of modest means, 
fulfilled a socially-needed role that was recognized by the princes who, thus, 
allowed Jewish families to settle within their territories. In addition, the role of 
the Church which, for many disparate reasons, some of wbich were humanitarian 
and altruistic, others driven more by economic necessity, helped the Jews in an 
amazing way, should by no means be discounted. The major role, though, was 
played by the Italian people who, as a whole, almost never bought the venom 
spread by Dominican and Franciscan itinerant preachers, and, in general, behaved 


The Flight of Jews into Italy 551 


in a most humane way. 

To the question of how could the Jews insert themselves so rapidly and 
effectively within Italian economic life, one more hypothesis could be added. I 
should like to point to the class division or hatred that Federico Chabod described 
as “i gruppi sociali, l’uno ostile all’altro . . . scissi dal tradizionale spregio dei 
borghesi verso la plebe . . . della beffarda asprezza, infine dei cittadini di qualsiasi 
condizione, verso i rozzi villici” (53). The Jews arrived in Italy unencumbered 
of any such prejudices and were able, therefore, to deal, without too much 
difficulty, with any and all of Italian social classes. Thus, they were, at times, 
merely tolerated, at times loved, but almost always, respected. The hard road 
traveled by the first travelers had, in the end, a rather successful end. 


Widener University 
BOOKS CITED 


Accademia della Crusca. Vocabolario degli Accademici della Crusca. Venice: Giovanni 
Alberti, 1612 (colophon “Die 11. Januarii, 1611”). 

———. Vocabolario degli Accademici della Crusca. Florence: Tip. Galileiana, 1905. 

Allacci, Leone. Drammaturgia. Venice: Pasquali, 1755, repr. Turin: Bottega d’Erasmo, 
1966. 

Ariosto, Lodovico. Il Negromante. Venice: Zoppino, 1535. 

Baroja, Julio Caro. Los judios en la Espana moderna y contemporanea. Madrid: Istmo, 
1978. 

Baron, Salo Wittmayer. A Social and Religious History of the Jews. New York: 
Columbia University Press, 1965. 

Beinart, Haim, “The Jews in Castile,” in Moreshet Sepharad: The Sephardi Legacy. 
Jerusalem: The Magnes Press, 1992. 

Berliner, Abraham. Storia degli ebrei di Roma. Milan: Rusconi, 1992 (Italian translation 
of Geschichte der Juden im Rom von der aelteste Zeit bis zum Gegenwart. Frankfurt 
am Main, 1893). 

Bonfil, Robert. “The History of the Spanish and Portuguese Jews in Italy,” in 
Moreshet Sepharad, The Sephardi Legacy, ed. Haim Beinhard. Jerusalem, 1992, 
2:217-239. 

—— —. Jewish Life in Renaissance Italy. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1994. 

—— —. “The Sad Epilogue of the Expulsion of the Jews from Spain,” forthcoming in English 
and Spanish. 

Brizzolari, Carlo. Gli ebrei nella storia di Genova. Genoa: Sabatelli, 1971. 

Carpi, Daniel, “Ebrei laureati in medicina all’universita di Padova tra il 1520 e il 1685,” 
in Daniel Carpi, et al., Scritti in onore di Nathan Cassuto. Jerusalem: Kedem-Yad 
Leyakkirenu, 1986. 

Chabod, Federico, Scritti su Machiavelli. Turin: Einaudi, 1964. 

Colorni, Vittore. “Prestito ebraico e comunita ebraiche nell’Italia centrale e 


552 ROBERT C. MELZI 


settentrionale con particolare riguardo alla comunita di Mantova,” in Judaica 
minora. Milan: Giuffré, 1983. 

Comedia intitolata SINE NOMINE. Florence: Giunti, 1574. 

Davidson, Nicholas. “The Inquisition and the Italian Jews,” in Stephen Haliczer, ed. 
Inquisition and Society in Early Modern Europe. Totowa, N.J: Barnes & Noble, 1987, 
pp. 19-46. 

Forteza Pina, M. Els Descendents dels coversos de Mallorca. Quatre mots de veritat. 
Mayorca, 1966 (reviewed by J. M. Milla Vallicrosa, Sefarad 27 [1967], 152-153). 

Giustiniani, Agostino. Annali della Repubblica di Genova. Genoa, 1834-35. 

Heers, J. Cristoforo Colombo. (Italian trans.) Milan, 1983. 

Hinojosa, José. “Solidaridad judia ante la expulsi6n, contrates de embarque,” Saitabi 30 
(1983), 105-124. 

Israel, Jonathan, I. European Jewry in the Age of Mercantilism, 1330-1750. Oxford: 
Clarendon, 1985. 

—— —. “The Sefardi Contribution to Economic Life and Colonization in Europe and the 
New World (16th-18th Centuries),” in Haim Beinhart, ed. The Sefardi Legacy. 
Jerusalem: The Magnes Press, 1992. 

Johnson, Paul. Storia degli ebrei. Milan: Longanesi, 1991 (originally printed in 1987). 

Melzi, Robert C. “The Perception of the Jews in Italian Renaissance Comedies,” 
Romance Languages Annual, 6 (1994) 294-305. 

Pullan, Brian. The Jews of Europe and the Inquisition of Venice. Totowa, N.J.: Barnes and 
Noble, 1983. 

Real Academia Espafiola, Diccionario de la lengua castellana. Madrid: Herederes de 
Francisco del Hierro, 1734. 

Renda, Francesco. La fine del giudaismo in Sicilia: ebrei e marrani e l|’Inquisizione 
spagnola prima durante e dopo la cacciata del 1492. Palermo: Sellerio, 1993. 

Roth, Cecil. Storia del popolo ebraico. Milan, 1962. 

Scazzocchio Sestieri, Lea. “Sulla parlata giudaico-romanesca,” in Daniel Carpi, Attilio 
Milano, Umberto Mahon (eds.). Scritti in memoria di Enzo Sereni. Jerusalem: 
Editrice Fondazione Sally Mayer, 1970, pp. 101-132. 

Senarega, Bartolomeo, De rebus genuensibus commentaria, in L. A. Muratori, Rerum 
italicarum scriptores. Milan, 1738, 24 vol. 

Terreros y Pando de, P. Esteban, Diccionario castellano. Madrid: Emprenta de la Viuda 
de Ibarra Hijos y Cia, 1767. 

Zazzu, Guido Nathan, ed. Sepharad addio. I profughi ebrei della Spagna e il ghetto di 
Genova, Genoa: Marietti, 1991 

Zoltes, Uri. “Columbus, Catholics, Marranos, and Jews. Who was Who and What was 
What,” Lexington Theological Quarterly, 28, 3 (Fall 1993): 177-200. 


LUIGI MONGA 





La Londra secentesca 
nell’“Anglipotrida” di Orazio Busino: 


Il 6 giugno 1618, a Londra, moriva improvvisamente Gregorio Barbarigo, 
ambasciatore di Venezia presso la corte di Giacomo I e il 25 dello stesso mese il 
Senato nominava Antonio Donato a sostituirlo. Il Donato, pero, era trattenuto a 
Torino da affari importanti? (vi sarebbe rimasto fino al gennaio 1618), percid il 
Senato affidd a Pietro Contarini l’incarico di reggere ad interim, come ambasciatore 
straordinario la sede di Londra. Giovan Battista Lionello, gia segretario di Gregorio 
Barbarigo, assicurd ufficiosamente la successione, in attesa dell’arrivo del Contarini, 
a cui in seguito rimase accanto come segretario. Antonio Donato ricopri in seguito 
la carica di ambasciatore a Londra dal 1° novembre 1618 al 16 maggio dell’anno 
seguente: la breve durata della sua ambasciata fu causata dalle pesanti accuse che 
gli erano state rivolte dai Savi del Collegio e che lo costrinsero a ritornare a Venezia 
a discolparsi.* La legazione della Serenissima a Londra avrebbe attraversato ancora 


1. Miécaro ringraziare amici e colleghi che mi hanno aiutato in queste ricerche, soprattutto 
la Prof. Annunziata Campa dell’ Universita di Pisa e il Dott. Marino Zorzi, direttore della 
Biblioteca Marciana. I] Research Council della Vanderbilt University e la Gladys Krieble 
Delmas Foundation di New York trovino qui l’espressione della mia gratitudine per il 
sostegno che mi hanno spesso dimostrato. 


2. L’ambasciata di Antonio Donato a Torino costituisce una pagina oscura nella storia diplo- 
matica di Venezia. Appena rientrato da Torino e prima di avviarsi a Londra dove era stato 
nominato, Donato presentd, secondo |’usanza, la sua relazione al Senato. II 10 settembre 
1618 si diresse verso l’Inghilterra e fece il solenne ingresso a Londra il 1 novembre, 
presentato alla corte dal Contarini il 16 dello stesso mese. Nel frattempo, la contabilita della 
sua ambasciata alla corte di Savoia veniva riveduta a Venezia e venivano scoperti ammanchi 
notevoli nelle somme erogate dal Donato a Carlo Emanuele I. I] 14 marzo una lettera del 
doge Pietro Bembo intimava al Donato di rassegnare l’ufficio e di tornare in patria a discol- 
parsi. Questi, dopo aver atteso invano l’arrivo di un successore, lasciava Londra il il 17 
maggio 1619 e si presentava davanti ai Savi del Consiglio il 5 giugno. Dopo molte 
tergiversazioni, considerando la sua causa ormai persa, fuggi da Venezia e si rifugio in 
Inghilterra, mentre il 20 giugno veniva condannato a morte in contumacia e i suoi beni 
venivano confiscati. 


3. A proposito di queste “tangenti”, che il re d’Inghilterra considerava peccatucci senza 
importanza, lo stesso Giacomo I confessava che se avesse dovuto punire i suoi sudditi con 
la severita che usava la Serenissima avrebbe finito per non aver pil nessun suddito vivo 
(Calendar of State Papers and Manuscripts: Venetian, ed. Allen B. Hinds. Londra, 1909, 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


554 LUIGI MONGA 


per qualche anno un periodo di crisi. Un decreto del 15 marzo 1619 designava 
Pietro Gritti come successore di Antonio Donato, ma a causa di una seria malattia 
il Gritti non pote partire; sostituito con Girolamo Trevisan, la nomina di quest’ ultimo 
fu subito cassata e l’ambasciata venne retta provvisoriamente da Pier Antonio Mario- 
ni, gia segretario di Pietro Donato, fino all’arrivo a Londra di Girolamo Lando, 
il 9 dicembre 1619. 

Oltre a questi problemi di personale, l’ambasciata di Pietro Contarini avvenne 
in un momento alquanto difficile nella storia della Repubblica Veneta e nella storia 
europea. Siera alla vigilia della guerra dei Trent’ Anni, e nonostante Venezia stesse 
per firmare la pace di Madrid (settembre 1617), la situazione politica in Italia 
sembrava bloccata sullo statu quo ante: a Milano il governatore don Pedro Alvarez 
de Toledo Osorco continuava a mostrarsi restio alla restituzione di Vercelli a Carlo 
Emanuele di Savoia, mentre a Napoli il viceré Pedro Girén, duca d’Ossuna, pescava 
nel torbido nella congiura che l’avventuriero francese Jacques Pierre, non senza 
la partecipazione di un manipolo di sudditi inglesi partigiani della Spagna‘, stava 
tramando contro Venezia proprio pochi mesi prima della nomina ad ambasciatore 
del Contarini. Come sempre, la casa d’ Austria circondava, minacciosa, il territorio 
della Serenissima. Le ostilita riguardavano non solo la cattura di navi veneziane 
da parte della flotta spagnola e dei pirati Uscocchi, protetti dall’arciduca Ferdinando, 
che infestavano il golfo del Carnaro e le coste dalmate, ma le relazioni tra Venezia 
e la Spagna erano turbate anche dall’intimidazione prodotta dall’ammassarsi di truppe 
filospagnole al confine occidentale della Repubblica conil Milanese e nordorientale 
con |’ Austria’ e dai tentativi da parte della Spagna di procurarsi l’alleanza dei pirati 
inglesi. Il compito principale del Contarini a Londra sarebbe stato infatti quello 
di procurare alla Repubblica uomini e navi per contrastare la presenza spagnola 
nell’ Adriatico. 

L’invio di un ambasciatore veneziano a Londra era stato ripetutamente sollecitato 
da Clemente Ville da Paolo Vv anche per assistere la causa dei cattolici inglesi, con 
discrezione e con circospezione, ma soprattutto era necessario poter dimostrare al 
re d’Inghilterra che i pericoli che Venezia da parte della Spagna correva da parte 


XV: 1617-1619, p. xlixe n°955). Antonio Donato, oratore di fama (Busino lo chiama altrove 
“Demostene veramente de’ nostri tempi”) finira ad Urbino, come gentiluomo del duca. 


4. Persino l’ambasciatore inglese a Venezia, Sir Henry Wotton, non ando immune da sospetti, 
soprattutto a causa dei contatti indiscreti che aveva mantenuto con persone legate alla congiura 
conosciuta sotto il nome di Spanish Conspiracy. Se ne vedra la relazione in una lettera di 
Wotton a Sir Robert Naunton nel volume di Logan Pearsall Smith, Life and Letters of Sir 
Henry Wotton (Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1907), U, 144-146. 


5. Sivedra una esposizione particolareggiata di questo periodo nell’introduzione di A. B. 
Hinds al volume citato dei Calendar of State Papers and Manuscripts: Venetian, xv, v-| 
e in A. Luzio, La congiura spagnola contro Venezia nel 1618, secondo i documenti 
dell’Archivio Gonzaga in Miscellanea di storia veneta (Venezia, 1918), ser. 3, t. 13. 


L’“Anglipotrida” di Orazio Busino 555 


della Spagna erano gravi ed oggettivi.° Naturalmente, data la tranquilla personalita 
di Giacomo I, le cui finanze erano agli estremi, per di pil preoccupato di sposare 
il figlio all’Infanta di Spagna, sarebbe stato difficile a Contarini di opporre il re 
d’Inghilterra a Filippo mM. 


* * * * * 


Figlio del senatore Marco e di Cornelia Corner, Pietro Contarini nasce a Venezia 
il27 novembre 1578.’ Il padre proveniva da famiglia agiata (i Contarini detti “delli 
Scrigni”, con palazzo sul Canal Grande, mentre la madre, figlia di Giorgio Corner, 
apparteneva ad un casato molto pit noto che aveva gia dato alcuni dogi alla 
Repubblica. 

Ventottenne, Pietro é nominato ambasciatore a Torino, dove rimane dal 15 aprile 
1606 ai primi di dicembre del 1608, in una situazione cruciale per la politica di 
Venezia nei riguardi dello Stato Pontificio. Roma da decenni sta osservando con 
malcelata irritazione la crescente tendenza di Venezia all’indipendenza in campo 
ecclesiastico: si prevede gia la burrasca che culminera con I’interdetto, proprio pochi 
giorni dopo la partenza per Torino dell’ambasciatore Contarini. I] governo venezia- 
no, essendosi avocato il diritto di autorizzare la fondazione di chiese, conventi e 
ospedali, di trasferire beni immobili a enti ecclesiastici e perfino di istituire il 
processo in foro civile di due ecclesiastici, sta appunto creando le condizioni per 
una reazione energica da parte di Roma. La replica di Venezia é altrettanto rigida 
e il braccio di ferro che ne risulta sembra destinato a protrarsi senza possibilita di 
soluzioni che salvino la faccia alle due parti: la riconciliazione avverra un anno 
dopo (21 aprile 1607), ma sara solamente un palliativo superficiale che poco o nulla 
avra cambiato alle condizioni preesistenti®. 

La carriera diplomatica del Contarini @ in continua ascesa: il 26 marzo 1613 
é eletto ambasciatore a Parigi e vi rimane dal 15 dicembre 1613 all’11 settembre 
1616, distinguendosi per la prudenza dei suoi giudizi, riuscendo a mantenere la 
Repubblica estranea alle contese franco-spagnole. 


6. II dispaccio del Contarini al doge del 17 novembre 1717 dice con chiarezza di aver fatto 
presente al re che in Italia “dalli ministri del cattolico [re di Spagna] si facevano operazioni 
tali che davano ad intender esser i loro fini drizzati ad ogni altra cosa che alla quiete” 
(Relazioni, cit., p. 667). 


7. Sene veda l’eccellente biografia, a cura di Gino Benzoni, nel Dizionario biografico degli 
Italiani (Roma, Istituto dell’Enciclopedia Italiana, 1983, xxv, pp. 267-271), che riprende 
e corregge quanto si legge nell’edizione delle Relazioni degli ambasciatori veneti: I. 
Inghilterra, a cura di L. Firpo (Torino, Bottega d’Erasmo, 1965; ristampa di edizioni curate 
da N. Barozzi e G. Berchet. Venezia, P. Naratovich, 1863), pp. xii-xiii. 


8. Si veda l’analisi di questo periodo nella Storia d’Italia, a cura di F. Catalano, G. Sasso, 
V. De Caprariis, G. Quazza (Torino, UTET, 1965), II, 634-648 e in “Paolo Sarpi” in Storia 
della cultura veneta, diretta da G. Arnaldie M. Pastore Stocchi (Vicenza, Neri Pozza, 1984), 
IV, i, 1-36. 


556 LUIGI MONGA 


Come riconoscimento dei suoi meriti, il Senato lo chiama a Londra, a coprire 
la carica di ambasciatore straordinario alla corte di S. Giacomo, dal 30 agosto 1617 
al 6 luglio 1618. Dopo un penoso itinerario attraverso territori nemici, in questa 
vigilia della guerra dei Trent’ Anni, il Contarini raggiunge Londra, dove espletera 
con successo le sue funzioni ufficiali, riuscendo a procurare alla Repubblica le navi 
e il personale di cui questa ha urgente bisogno. 

A Londra Pietro Contarini riceve la nomina alla sede di Madrid (l’elezione é 
del 6 luglio 1618), e vi si dirige direttamente, dopo un breve periodo passato a 
sistemare gli affari dell’ambasciata, in attesa del successore. Contarini rimarra 
a Madrid dal 24 gennaio 1619 al 20 gennaio 1621. 

Al suo ritorno a Venezia, é nominato capitano a Brescia dal settembre 1622 
al giugno 1623. Infine, un’ultima volta, la Repubblica lo nomina ambasciatore a 
Roma (ottobre 1623-giugno 1627) presso papa Urbano VIII, appena eletto al 
pontificato. E’ proprio di questo periodo la questione della Valtellina, che vede 
il Contarini schierato contro il papa, il quale vorrebbe affidare alla Spagna il con- 
trollo del passaggio verso i cantoni svizzeri, “un passo che si compra per vil denaro” 
e che, per di piu, si trova nelle mani di “quattro scalzi eretici”. Nella sua relazione 
al Senato, Contarini offre un completo panorama della situazione internazionale 
vista da Roma, affermando la difficolta intrinseca di definire con esattezza quanto 
avviene nella Corte Papale, “camminandosi a quella Corte con una continua e 
finissima simulatione, che mai termina, se non giunti al sublime grado” (p. 213). 
E finisce, con estrema franchezza, per accusare il papa di fingere di amare la 
Repubblica quanto la potrebbe amare un papa veneziano, mentre si lamenta continua- 
mente, “hor nelle congregationi, hor con i cardinali et talvolta con gl’ambasciatori 
d’altri principi, prorrompendo in concetti di grave sentimento, come che da sempre 
s’intacchi et usurpi la sua giurisditione” (p. 218).? 

Ritornato finalmente in patria nel giugno 1627, onoratissimo per i servizi resi, 
Pietro Contarini é nominato savio del Consiglio; si sposa lo stesso anno con Paolina, 
figlia di Giulio Contarini.'° Il 19 ottobre 1632, concludera quietamente, nella 
citta natale, a cinquantaquattro anni, una vita non lunga, ma certamente operosa 
ed assai movimentata. 


9. La relazione fu pubblicata da Barozzi e Bercher a Venezia nel 1879 (serie M1, vol. 1, 
pp. 195-220). 


10. Dei due figli nati da questo matrimonio, Contarina sposera nel 1648 un altro Contarini, 
Francesco di Giovanni, mentre il figlio Marco (1632-1689) sara procuratore di S. Marco 
de citra. Nella societa veneziana del Cinque e Seicento era tradizione che il figlio maggiore, 
destinato ad alte cariche civili e diplomatiche, restasse scapolo, almeno fino al completamento 
di tali incarichi, lasciando spesso ai fratelli minori di continuare il nome della famiglia. Il 
fatto di essere libero da impegni familiari pressanti gli dava ampia liberta di movimento, 
permettendogli, come nel caso dell’ambasciata straordinaria a Londra, di partire per un paese 
lontano con soli otto giorni di preavviso, o di raggiungere Madrid direttamente da Londra, 
senza ripassare per Venezia, come sara costretto di fare un paio d’anni dopo. 








L’“Anglipotrida” di Orazio Busino 557 


* * * * * 


Il testo, finora inedito nell’ originale italiano, é composto da sette lettere che Orazio 
Busino, cappellano e segretario privato dell’ambasciatore, spedi da Londra ai fratelli 
Contarini, tra i primi giorni di gennaio e la fine di settembre del 1618: esse portano 
le seguenti date, 10 e 24 gennaio, 7 febbraio, 29 giugno, 10 e 19 luglio e 21 
settembre 1618; ad esse si aggiunge la relazione dell’ingresso solenne del Lor Mayor 
a Londra, del novembre dello stesso anno. Riunendole sotto il titolo di Anglipotrida, 
’autore si é proposto di formare un epistolario che contenga “le varie et diverse 
cose” notate nel corso della sua permanenza alla corte di Giacomo I e nella citta 
e nei dintorni di Londra: osservazioni “aromatiche” e “piccanti”, raccolte “senza 
affettato ordine”, a mano a mano che gli vengono alla mente, incurante dell’ orga- 
nizzazione necessaria ad un lavoro scientifico. Ma non ci si lasci tradire dalla 
affettata umilta dello scrittore: non si trattera di povero “miscuglio” ,'' ma di aristo- 
cratico cibo, di documento che I|’autore stesso spera possa venire conservato tra 
le carte della famiglia Contarini con “altri famosi et nobili oggetti” quali le lettere 
dello stesso Bembo, fregiando il manoscritto di un motto pseudo-virgiliano “Et nos 
quoque poma natamus”. 

L’interesse storico oggettivo di questi documenti é provato dal fatto che il 
Calendar of State Papers inglese, il regesto dei documenti interessanti la storia del 
Regno Unito, si é servito abbondantemente delle lettere e dell’Anglipotrida del 
Busino. Lo stile é vivace e cattivante, il dettato narrativo limpido.'? Numerosi 
sono 1 brani che non sfigurerebbero in un’antologia dei prosatori del nostro Seicento. 
Il passaggio sull’uso del tabacco a Londra é dilettevole, una primizia, forse, nella 
nostra letteratura. Ma é nelle descrizioni che Busino eccelle: sfilate, cerimonie 
di corte, serate a teatro, personaggi stranieri che arrivano a Londra, vestiti di strani 
costumi. Stupendo é il ritratto dell’“ambasciatore moscovito” che a Londra “s’é 
fatto vedere molto superbamente con sessanta huomini di servitio molto bene all’ ordi- 
ne”. Eildottore di Cambridge, “sordidamente imbriaco” che nella locanda della 
cittadina universitaria vuole assolutamente disputare con l’ambasciatore “con 
bellissima latinita” finisce per assumere una vivacita e un piglio indimenticabili: 

L’Anglipotrida si inserisce nel ricco filone dell’epistolario odeporico, il cui 
rappresentante pit significativo, nel Seicento italiano, é forse il Della Valle, che 


11. Olla podrida é termine della cucina spagnola (spesso italianizzato in ogliapotrida) che 
indica una vivanda modesta, costituita da numerosi ingredienti messi a cuocere lentamente 
in una pentola. In senso figurato, corrisponderebbe al francese pot pourri, un’accozzaglia 
di elementi ed idee mescolati alla rinfusa, uno zibaldone, diremmo oggi. 


12. Come scrisse Malcolm Letts, Busino “was a man of shrewdness and observation, and 
was endowed with high spirits and unbounded good humour. . . . His letters are genial and 
well written, and his account of the journey[s] of the ambassador . . . is no ordinary traveller’s 
diary” (“Contributions to the History of European Travel,” Notes and Queries, 12 Ser. 
(January 22, 1916), 61. 


558 LUIGI MONGA 


invia ad un ricco amico napoletano i resoconti dei suoi viaggi. Esiste, tuttavia, 
una differenza fondamentale tra le lettere vere e proprie, spedite a reali destinatari 
e quelle riviste poi dall’autore, in funzione della pubblicazione. In quest’ultimo 
caso é naturale che la revisione del testo originale possa spesso aver modificato 
profondamente |’originale. Da Cicerone a Simmaco e a Gerolamo fino a Petrarca, 
Erasmo e agli umanisti, da Pascal a Madame de Sévigné e a Montesquieu, a Diderot 
e a Choderlos de Laclos, |’epistolario d’arte diventa un genere letterario a sé stante 
che finisce per sfociare nel romanzo. II mittente é preoccupato di evitare particolari 
ad hominem eccessivamente personali ed effettua un tentativo di universalizzazione 
della propria esperienza, per interessare un pubblico sempre pit vasto. E’ giocoforza 
che I’autore e I’editore si trovino ad affrontare e risolvere problemi editoriali e di 
pubblico, ché ora trattandosi di volume, il testo é diventato un bene commerciabile. 
Ma, a differenza di epistolari di cui si conosce solo I’edizione a stampa, |’Angli- 
potrida di Busino é costituita da missive pure e semplici, nella scarna immediatezza 
del loro conversare con il destinatario privato che le ha commissionate per riporle 
in seguito negli archivi di famiglia. Lettere vere e proprie, quindi, e non rifacimenti 
letterari. Se Busino avesse sospettato che questi testi sarebbero potuti finire in altre 
mani, avrebbe forse chiesto di rivederli per eliminarne, per esempio, qualche 
particolare meno conveniente alla sua posizione di religioso.'° 
Nell’Anglipotrida la scansione narrativa del testo si sviluppa in maniera 
estremamente interessante: un paragone potrebbe venir fatto con i famosi 
Ragionamenti di Francesco Carletti (che Busino non poteva conoscere, dato che 
restarono manoscritti fino all’inizio del Settecento). La scelta del genere epistolare 
gli permette un impianto stilistico colloquiale (proprio come il “ragionamento” 
estemporaneo del mercante fiorentino), basato sulla disinvoltura e su una completa 
liberta espressiva tale da fargli cambiare improvvisamente argomento o farlo ritornare 
(quando lo ritenga necessario) a correggere quanto ha scritto in precedenza, proprio 
secondo una definizione del Petrarca, “il compito delle lettere credo sia non gia 
far onore a chi le scrive, ma informare chi le legge”.'* Quanto al contenuto 
dell’ Anglipotrida, una volta eliminate le brevi frasi d’introduzione e di commiato 
e i pochi, scarni riferimenti ai destinatari sparsi qua e 14, Busino evidenzia soprattutto 


13. Sebastiano Locatelli, sacerdote bolognese, che aveva tenuto un diario nel corso del suo 
Viaggio di Francia con due giovani aristocratici della sua citta, una volta accortosi che il 
testo originale incominciava a venir trascritto e a passare di mano in mano, si era premurato 
di darne una revisione. Nel corso di tale processo, invece di tagliarne gli episodi scabrosi 
(ma di indubbio valore romanzesco), si limito ad inquadrarli nell’ottica della provvidenza 
divina che gliaveva permesso disuperare, senza diventarne vittima, le situazioni moralmente 
pericolose alle quali ingenuamente si era esposto. Si veda la mia introduzione al Viaggio 
di Francia di Locatelli (Moncalieri, C.I.R.V.I., 1992), pp. 23-24 e 30-32. 


14. “Si iussisses loqui de altioribus, temptassem: nunc epystole officium reor non ut 
scribentem nobilitet, sed ut certificem legentem” (Rerum familiarium libri, 1, 5): ovviamente, 
tale precisazione vale solo per le lettere reali, non per le edizioni rivedute ed ampliate del 
proprio epistolario. 


L’“Anglipotrida” di Orazio Busino 559 


l’esperienza diretta del “visto e udito” , senza preoccuparsi di organizzare la materia 
secondo criteri generali 0 dotte estrapolazioni: la semplicita diretta del “parlato” 
avvolge tutto il contenuto. 

Il protagonista della narrazione — che nelle intenzioni del Busino sarebbe dovuto 
essere |’ambasciatore — finisce per diventare lo scrittore stesso. In prima persona, 
questi padroneggia il discorso, aperto ad ogni suggestione visiva, attento a registrare 
quanto lo circonda, pronto ad annotare risentimenti personali, impressioni soggettive, 
rancori di origine religiosa o politica. Verificandosi immediatamente in seguito 
ai fatti narrati, la scrittura epistolare non permette di mantenere le debite distanze, 
cronologiche e psicologiche, dagli avvenimenti vissuti: se, quindi, l’oggettivita ne 
soffre, ne guadagna invece la rapidita smaliziata, l’impressionismo esotico, |’ estra- 
polazione personale di fatti, persone e cose. Protestando fedelta a quanto lui stesso 
ha visto e udito a Londra (“loco . . . ove veggo e ascolto varie et diverse cose”), 
si vede costretto a scegliere tra nozioni “basse o di rilievo, . . . aromatiche e 
piccanti”. E finge persino — giusta il topos classico — di buttarsi a malincuore 
nel suo progetto, solo per obbligo d’obbedienza, quasi che senza il “commandamento 
espresso” dei fratelli Contarini, non ne avrebbe avuto il coraggio o |’audacia. 
Tuttavia, nonostante la pubblica l’asserzione di modestia, Busino scopre infine le 
sue carte e osa sperare che il suo lavoro, che del resto orna di un frontespizio non 
privo di uncerto tono ufficiale, possa essere conservato nell’archivio della famiglia 
Contarini, accanto ad “altre cose pit antiche et belle” (f° 69v), accanto, come 
abbiamo visto, ai manoscritti dello stesso Bembo. 

L’attenzione di Busino é onnicomprensiva. In questo, la sua qualita di sacerdote 
non limita affatto l’angolatura da cui osserva il mondo nuovo in cui é venuto a 
trovarsi. Se talvolta non pud esimersi dal commento moraleggiante sull’eterodossia 
degli Inglesi (“capitalissimi nemici del papato”, “grandezze ecclesiastiche vilipese”), 
altre volte si sofferma con malcelata volutta sui costumi delle “honoratissime et 
addobbatissime dame” che incontra nei ricevimenti ufficiali alla Corte di S. Giacomo 
(“vestite, Dio buono!!*, di cosi varii habiti et inventati colori, . . . con morbidissimi 
pennacchi a traverso il capo e nelle mani, a modo di ventaglio, . . . che parevano 
tante stelle”). Effettivamente, si accorge di essere, ahimé, troppo vicino al limite 
permessogli dalla bienséance ecclesiastica, e subito corregge furbamente il tiro: 


in spatio di due hore havemmo tempo di mirar e rimirar ciascheduna, sebene io, 
rispetto alla mia caliginante vista, non ho potuto far scientifico giuditio da lontano, 
et mi sono rimesso in tutto et per tutto alli miei signori colleghi, i quali [...] 
scuoprivano dei belli et molto vaghi aspetti, et ogni tratto andavano dicendo: “Oh, 


15. Il contesto di questa esclamazione richiama valori interstestuali inconsciamente 
petrarcheschi. A Colonia, sulla riva del Reno, la vigilia di S. Giovanni Battista, il Petrarca 
Si era stupito davanti all’“insigne spectaculum” di una folla di bellissime donne: “Obstupui: 
Dii boni, que forma, que facies, quis habitus! Amare potuisset quisquis eo non preoccupatum 
animum attulisset” (Rerum familiarium libri, 1, 5). 


560 LUIGI MONGA 


guardate questa! oh mirate quella! di chi € moglie questa terza in ordine? et di chi 
é figlia quella gratiosa appresso? 


Cosi, riportando il giudizio altrui, si lascia trasportare senza pudore ad apprezzamenti 
non propriamente degni di un ecclesiastico: 


fra il molto grano v’era anco della bulla et della paglia . . ., cioé delle secchette 
secchette . . ., ma le belle veramente lo sono in superlativo grado. . . . Le carnute 
et grasse portano il petto scoperto purassai et le magre vanno serrate sino al collo, 
tutte con le sue scarpe da uomo o pure con pianellette molto basse. 


E’ forse per via di un certo pragmatismo prettamente veneziano che 1|’elemento 
meraviglioso é generalmente tenuto sotto controllo: ’incredibile appare raramente, subito 
seguito da un commento, rapido e dirompente. Venezia é per tradizione terreno 
d’incontro di varie civilta e la vita quotidiana a Venezia é una sintesi di costumi e di 
colori orientali a cui il veneziano ormai fa poca attenzione.'® 

Ed é per puro pragmatismo esistenziale che le lettere sono quel che sono, né troppo 
estese né troppo brevi: uno sguardo all’originale permettera di notare che é proprio 
la banalita di essere giunto alla fine del foglio a dettare a Busino l’esigenza di porre 
una rapida conclusione ad ognuna delle lettere di cui consta l’Anglipotrida. Eppure, 
nonostante |’efficienza di questi scritti, essi restano il palinsesto dietro cui appare, in 
tutta la sua robusta vitalita, la storia privata della Serenissima nei primi decenni di un 
secolo travagliato. 


Poiché il testo completo dei diari di tutti i viaggi di Pietro Contarini sara presto 
pubblicato in altra sede, abbiamo deciso di offrire qui solo una scelta dei passi pit 
interessanti dell’Anglipotrida, attenendoci ad una trascrizione fedele dell’ ortografia 
originale, mantenendo la foliazione del manoscritto. 


Vanderbilt University 


16. Si ricordera che é proprio a Venezia che Albrecht Diirer incontra per la prima volta 
dei personaggi vestiti all’orientale: vi soggiorna nel 1494-1495 e tra il 1505 e il 1507, e 
li disegna con una certa frequenza. Del resto la grande tela della predicazione di San Marco 
ad Alessandria di Gentile Bellini (del 1505) offre al pubblico veneziano un paesaggio 
tipicamente orientale. 








ANGLIPOTRIDA: SCELTA ANTOLOGICA 


[Biblioteca Marciana — Ital. VII, 1122 (6451), 68r-97v] 


/69r/ CAUSA DELL’INSCRITTIONE 


Io, come inclinato nell’osservarmi non meno nel divino timore che nell’ obedienza et 
nell’amorevolezza del mio simile, non ho voluto in alcun tempo meter in carta pur una 
minima sillaba, nonché parole, eccetto pero quelle poche lettere domestiche che per 
mera necessita m’é convenuto d’iscrivere, stimando che cid sia quasi un evidente pericolo 
di dar ne’ scogli, poiché l’huomo spesse volte incorre in censure solo col voler notificar 
il suo puro concetto, venendo per lo pit la retta intentione di lui interpretata in altro 
prossimo senso. 

Hora che tengo carico, anzi commandamento espresso, in un’ampia patente 
dell’abondante gratia et del benigno favore di Sua Eccellenza, debbo farmi sentire, 
massime dimorando hora in Londra, loco meno che otioso, ove veggo et ascolto varie 
et diverse cose, non tanto delle basse o di rilievo, ma delle aromatiche et delle piccanti 
ancora. Onde, resomi tutto confuso et non sapendo da che capo cominciare, ho intitolato 
la massa di tutte queste materie sotto nome di Anglipotrida per doverne senza affettato 
ordine dar conto alle Vostre Signorie Illustrissime, secondo che I’istesse participate 
curiosita, per suplimento del gia scritto usciranno da questa mia leggier penna. Et poi 
seguiterO con la prima, seconda et terza apendice overo aggionta sino che durera la 
presente legatione. Protesto nondimeno hora per sempre ch’io non intendo di voler 
dir la buggia, né di tassar alcuno né di insegnar il falso; et per adempir cid ricorrero 
spes[s]o alle mie tre stelle polari, poste nel frontispitio di quest’ opra, con l’una credendo 
il bene per non divenir infedele od atheo, con I’altra prestando obedienza a chi devo 
per non rendermi sospetto 0 contumace, et con la terza giovando cortesemente altrui 
per non esser ritenuto malcreato od inhumano. 

L’adimando inoltre Anglipotrida per disiderio ch’ella habbia quell’essito che tal 
miscuglio quasi sempre suol havere, poiché per ordinario non compare pit d’una volta 
nella mensa, bramando io parimente che, /69v/ subito veduta et honorata nel concerto 
regale di questa IIlustrissima Casa, sia abbruggiata 0 pure, quando stimassero le Vostre 
Signorie IIlustrissime per pieta di donargli la vita, riporla almeno come ancella 
nell’archivio delle cose pit antiche et belle, tra gli oracoli degli amorevoli servitori loro, 
come d’un Giovan Matteo Giberti, di quelli della Torre et d’altri famosi et nobili oggetti, 
annoverando anco |’istesso Pietro Bembo, accid possa ella dire: “Et nos quoque poma 
natamus”. 

La citta di Londra si rende veramente degna d’esser nominata metroppoli del regno 
et habitatione di regal corone, essendo bella et molto capace, di circuito di miglia sette, 
lunga tre et frequentatissima di popolo. Due parti della grandezza di lei consistono 
nelli borghi, ne’ quali tengon stanza li nobili et anco la minuta plebe. Vi sono anco 
Situati in essa tutti li palazzi regii, giardini et parchi. Nella terza parte fanno bottega 
li principali mercanti, dai quali si cava il capo del governo della citta, detto il Milormero, 


562 ORAZIO BUSINO 


et liministri. E’ posta, come facilmente altre volte ho detto, alla ripa del fiume Tamigi, 
il quale scorre dalla parte di occidente verso oriente, in modo che il maggior corpo 
della citta s’appoggia per lungo del corso di detto fiume, in faccia del mez[z]o giorno. 
Et al rimpetto dell’altra ripa vi sono pur buone habitationi, sebene in minor quantita, 
le quali sono congionte alla detta col mez[z]o d’un nobilissimo ponte di pietra viva, 
di lunghezza compresa in disnove altissimi archi, sopra il quale ponte, da una parte 
et P’altra, vi sono case commode con le sue botteghe che rappresentano pit tosto un 
lungo borgo che una bella machina d’un ponte. Le contrade sono grandi, tutte con 
la sua chiesa et torre, conservate nude d’altari eccetto un solo, sopra il quale si veggono 
le due tavole dei X precetti di Dio nel coro, /7Or/ invece di pala. 

La cathedrale é San Paolo, eminentissima sopra le altre. Le strade sono aggiate 
et ample, con le sue botteghe fornite da ogni parte. In essa vi sono fontane nettissime 
di pietra, massime per mez[z]o dela citta, berline da collo et per le mani, ceppi per 
li piedi et le catene da traversar le strade et impedir il transito ne’ bisogni. Ne’ borghi, 
apresso questo vi sono di pit gabbie di rovere da imprigionar li malfatori presi di notte, 
et anco cesti serradi da chiuder gli animali istessi che fanno danni ad alcuno, tanto é 
regolata et severa la giustitia in queste parti. 

Una delle pit notabili cose ch’io veggo in questo regno, maravigliosa invero stimo 
esser quella dell’uso de ’herba regina, nominata propriamente tabacco, le foglie del 
quale, secche, vengono dall’Indie in un invoglio a’ modo di corda, tagliato et polverizzato 
poi, doppo I’esser posto in certo instrumento vacuo lungo un palmo, nominato pipa. 
Lo accendono dalla parte del vasetto pit: capace di detta polvere et poi acceso, per bocca 
l’assorbono ridotto in tanto fummo, con grande et dilettevol gusto. Dicono per scaricar 
la testa, disseccar gli humori et eccitar molto bene I’ap[p]etito; et cid hanno cosi spesso 
che non solo a tutte le hore del giorno, ma anco la notte istessa tengono al capezzale 
la pipa col foccile, et se ne cavano la voglia. Per ordinario fra di loro si fanno in giro 
de’ brindesi, porgendosi la pipa con molta gratia, come altrove et quivi pure appunto, 
si costuma il farlo col buon vino, ma pit frequente con la bir[rja. Le donne ancora 
nobili et pudiche s’avezzano di prenderlo per medicina, ma di nascosto, le altre lo fanno 
a suo piacere. Spendono cotidianamente tanto oro in questa lor porcheria che 1 negotio 
del tabacco hora ascende a mez[z]o milione d’oro, del quale la Maesta del Re ne cava, 
solo per rispetto del datio, 40 mila scudi d’oro all’anno. Per tutta la citta nella maggior 
parte delle botteghe si vende il /70v/ tabacco con le sue pipe, si che tra queste et quelle 
botteghe che vendono solamente collarini et meneghetti e cose simili constituirebbono 
una grande citta. Questo é negotio veramente di vanita et fummo, et percid Sua Maesta 
lo aborisce, restando anco prohibito per tutta la corte senza decreto. Onde, per mio 
giuditio, niun altro paese dovrebbe introdur tabacco, perché se ne entra nella citta con 
fummoso fasto et poi mortificato n’esce carco d’oro, lasciando vuote le borse ai 
compratori et torbida la mente. Meraviglia stimo anco vedere le beccarie in tanta 
quantita, che per ogni contrada ve ne sono le vie piene da ogni parte, con le carni 
grassissime in mostra poste ne’ rastelli d’alto a basso delle finestre et porte, appunto 
come soleva far in Venetia l’unico Bartolomeo dal Calese nel tempo della Sensa, facendo 
pala de’ sioi bei pan[n]i d’oro. 


Anglipotrida 563 


Vi sono infinite hosterie et bettolini da pasto solo, da pasto et alloggio, magazzeni 
di bir[rje et di vino, a minuto et all’ingrosso, di tutte le imagini nobili sorte, Alicanti, 
Canarie, Moscati, claretti, di Spagna, di Reno, et di cento e mille altri luoghi, tutti ottimi, 
ma veramente convien beverli col bicchier d’argento, costando molto cari, da che avviene 
che fanno capitale anco degli stessi flatti, poiché non é mala cranza il darsi fra di loro 
delle sbruffate nel mostaccio, purché sapino di vino o di tabacco che sia del buono. 
Torniamo al fiume per pigliar dell’acqua da lavar o levar via dagli animo nostri questo 
puzzore. Stanno insomma molto male d’acque, sibene ne hanno in grandissima quantita, 
cavata con artificio dalla fiumara sino con li molini da vento, et la spargono in tutte 
le fontane per li borghi, e sono talmente grosse, torgole et fettenti che’! fettore resta 
sino ne’ pan{n]ji di bugata. Hanno pero nel corpo della citta certe fontane d’acquedotti 
chiare et honestamente buone, et quivi si vede gran concorso di donne et fachini che 
per mercede portano dell’acqua alle case di chi ne vuole, in certi vasi di legno lunghi 
et cerchiati di ferro. /71r/ Il sodetto fiume ha cosi gran flusso et reflusso che sotto 
il ponte macinarebbe ogni molino fra quei archi, passando ogni sei hore |’acqua su et 
git con molt’impeto, variando la colma dalla sema sino li 10 et 12 piedi per altezza, 
et tuttavia le barchette passano per tutto con tanta leggiadria che fanno stupire ognuno. 
Le qual barchette paiono tante gondole mozze, senza ferri et felze, hanno pero il trasto 
con certi cossini molto commodi. Vogano alla galiotta con remi lunghissimi et si 
schivano I’un l’altro con gran destrezza. Visono anco le barche coperte, lunghe a modo 
di bucintori, molto belle, massime quelle del re et di altri baroni et signori, a 6 et otto 
remi che veramente volano contra acqua. 

Veggonsi pasticcieri infiniti, pollaiuoli inumerabili et in particolare di quelli che 
vendo[n] anco conigli, et ogni bottega ne ha le centinaia et il tutto si smaltisce; botteghe 
di struzzeri, dove amaestrano et vendono alcuni astori et altre sorti di uccelli di rapina. 
Il Signor Maestro di Cerimonie cont6 a Sua Eccellenza nell’anticamera di Sua Maesta 
che in sua presenza occorse un bel caso, di un falcone, qual prese in aria un pesce molto 
grande, et fu in questa maniera che azzuffatosi in aria con l’argirone'’, ammaestrato 
detto uccello dalla natura, nel conflitto gettd in faccia del falcone un pesce che teneva 
nel gozzo et in questa guisa si sottrasse dagli artigli del nemico. Et qui fo punto, 
massime dovendo io poi rivangar alcune cose gia toccate, come della bellezza delle 
chiese, de’ mi[ni]stri et dei riti loro et d’altro. Serva dunque cid per una forma di 
gazzetta, concorrendo sempre in me altrettanta prontezza et divotione in servire alle 
Vostre Signorie Illustrissime quanto é manifesta a ciascheduno la mia molta obligatione; 
et per hora humilmente me le inchino. 


Di Londra, li x di genaro [1618]. 


17. uccello rapace, girifalco? 


564 ORAZIO BUSINO 


/72r/ PRIMA AGGIONTA DELL’? ANGLIPOTRIDA 


Appresso I’attestatione di molti scrittori degni di fede, l’esperienza anco c’insegna che 
tutte le nationi del mondo sono inclinate alli trionfi et ai bagordi, concorrendo volontieri 
ne’ pubblici congressi si per vedere a rappresentar cose emergenti di nuovo, come anco 
per commemorar le antiche di loro gusto. Et questa sorte di trattenimenti molte volte 
giovano alla quiete de’ Stati et alla conservatione d’essi. Onde li saggi principi sogliono 
spesso dare qualche honesta ricreatione alli loro popoli. Da qui viene che in Londra, 
come capo d’un floridissimo regno, si costumano infiniti atti scenici per tutto l’anno 
in diverse regioni della citta, con una frequenza perpetua di molte persone dedite al 
buon tempo, le quali vanno la maggior parte vestite alla grande, et di coloro che paiono, 
se potessero, esser tutte pill che prencipi, ma meglio comedianti. 

Nella corte permanente del Re Serenissimo, passato il giorno di Natale, si da principio 
ai sontuosi banchetti, alle ben recitate comedie et alli balletti leggiadrissimi di cavalieri 
etdame. Uno famosissimo sopra gli altri balletti s’affetta la notte segguente della festa 
de’ tre Maggi, per antico costume di questo domicilio regale, ove in una gran salla, 
accommodata a modo di theatro con sicurissimi palchi d’ogn’intorno, in testa situata 
la scena et in faccia dall’altra parte vi é la seggia di Sua Maesta sotto un amplo 
baldachino, et vicino de’ scagni per gli Signori Ambasciatori de’ Principi. Onde quest’an- 
no, che fu alli 16 del mese corrente di gennaro, Sua Eccellenza fu invitata a vedere 
quest’ attioni et ballo, allestiti con straordinario studio et apparecchi, dovendo esser il 
capo et mantenitor principale I’istesso unico figlio della Maesta Sua, Principe di Vaglia 
et successore venerando di questo gran regno, d’eta di 17 anni in circa, giovane disposto, 
bello et di molta gratia. 

Percid andammo alle 4 hore di notte a Corte, privatamente, per la via del parco, 
et entrati nelle reggie stanze |’Eccellenza Sua fu trattenuta alquanto da un principale 
cavaliere, sinché le cose fossero perfettamente all’ordine, et noi altri della famiglia, 
tutti profumati, andammo con la scorta del Signor Maestro delle Cerimonie nel /72v/ 
solito palco dell’ambasciata veneta, dove per mala sorte stammo cosi stretti et tanto 
incommodi che, se non fosse stata la curiosita che ci trattenea, dal gran fiacco conveniva 
cedere 0 crepare. Et ci sopragionse anco il malanno d’un spagnuolo che venne nel 
nostro palco col favore del Signor Maestro delle Cerimonie, entrando solo con dos 
dicchios de plaza,"* et non arrivammo di correre che stava pit commodo di tutti noi 
altri, per lo giusto Iddio. [Seguono tre righe accuratamente cancellate| Insomma, con 
questi corbati me la veggo persa, considerato ch’erano sparsi per tutte le porte principali, 
l’ambasadore presso il re, certi gallani con le collane al collo fra li Signori del Consiglio 
di Stato, alti nel palco prorpio per la custodia dell’ Ambasciatrice, et il folletto venne 
in casa nostra. Pure il gusto che si havea mentre si stava attendendo il re, in mirare 
lo apparato, in considerar la bellezza della salla, con due ordini di colonne lontane dal 
muro quanto importa il corritore, l’un sopra l’altro, il dorico che sostiene detto transito 


18. due dita di spazio 


Anglipotrida 565 


et l’altro ionico, sopra il quale sta appoggiato il volto della salla. Il tutto é di legno 
intagliato et dorato con molto artificio, sino lo istesso corpo delle colonne, con due file 
di lumiere da doversi accander a suo tempo. II concorso poi che vi fu, ancorché fanno 
professione di non lasciar entrare se non gl’invitati favoriti, tuttavia ogni palco era pieno, 
particolarmente de honoratissime et adobatissime dame al numero di 600 et pit, per 
giuditio di ogn’uno. Vestite, Dio buono!, di cosi varii habiti et inventati colori, inesplica- 
bili certo, con morbidissimi penacchi a traverso il capo et nelle mani, a modo di 
ventaglio, et poi in testa, dalla parte dinanzi, coronette di gioie, al collo, al petto, ne’ 
Centi et nei vestiti, in tanta quantita che pareano tante regine, in maniera che nel principio 
con pochi lumi a guisa di /73r/ un crepuscolo di prima sera o pure dell’ alba, il splendor 
de’ diamanti era cosi brilante che parevano tante stelle. Et in spatio di due hore d’otio 
havemmo tempo di mirar et rimirar ciascheduna, sebene io, rispetto alla mia caligante 
vista, non ho potuto far sientifico giuditio da lontano, et mi sono rimesso in tutto et 
per tutto alli miei signori colleghi, i quali m’hanno riferto che scuoprivano dei belli 
et molto vaghi aspetti, et ogni tratto andavano dicendo: “Oh, guardate questa! Ofh], 
mirate quella! Di chi é moglie questa terza in ordine? Et di chi é figlia quella gratiosa 
appresso?” Conclusero, perd, che fra il molto grano v’era anco della bulla et della 
paglia mescolata insieme, cioé delle secchette secchette et delle molto divote di San 
Carlo, ma che le belle veramente sono in superlativo grado, et io, seben vecchio et 
mezo ciecco, ho sottoscritto allo assai ragionevole decreto. L’habito vario di queste 
signore é molto bello, a chi piace, et alcuno d’essi é buono per occultar li deffetti della 
natura, poiché di dietro pende quasi dal collo con certe manichette lunghe et strette sino 
in terra, senza casso et increspate, et in questo modo qualsivoglia mostruosa gobba sta 
nascosta; il verdugale poi fa anco egli la sua parte. Le carnute et grasse portano il petto 
scoperto purassai et le magre vanno serrate sino al collo, tutte con le sue scarpe da 
huomo o pure con pianellette molto basse. La mascheretta in faccia serve loro come 
ne’ conviti il pane, ma in questi pubblici spettacoli le mettono da parte volontieri. 
Intorno alle 6 hore di notte comparve Sua Maesta con la sua corte, essendo passata 
per le stanze dove si trattenevano li signori ambasadori et li condusse gratiosamente 
seco, cioé quello di Spagna et questo di Venetia, non toccando per questa volta 
l’alternativa a quel di Francia, rispetto alle competenze loro. Nell’entrar della /73v/ 
stanza cominciorno a sonar li piffari et i tromboni, al numero di quindici 0 venti, molto 
bene, a modo di ricercate di contrapunto musicale. Messasi a sedere Sua Maesta sotto 
il baldachino, sola, non vi essendo la regina, per esser alquanto indisposta, fece poi 
sedere sopra due scagni li signori ambasadoni et di fuori sedevano sopra certe banche 
li signoni titolati et quelli che attendono al magistrato. Subito il Signor Gran Ciambellano 
fece far largo et nel mezo della salla riusci un bello et spatioso campo, qual era tutto 
fodrato di pan[{njo verde. Fecero cader in un momento una gran tenda, fatta con pittura 
a modo d’un padiglione d’oro con le sue franze grandi, et nel vano c’era tela azzurra 
tutta tempestata di stelle d’oro, la qual chiudeva la scena nel primo aspetto. Rimossa 


566 ORAZIO BUSINO 


questa, comparve primo il rionte'’ di Atlante, et vedevasi solo la testa di lui, grandissima 
nella cima, sotto l’istessa volta del salone, la qual girava gli occhi et se stessa con assai 
bell’artificio. Et per far poi riuscir tanto pid vaggo et leggiadro il principal balletto 
et mascherata, fecero comparer alcune momarie nel primo atto, come sarebbe a dir 
il dio Bacco grassissimo sopra un carro tirato da quattro vestiti alla lunga, li quali 
cantarono sotto voce dinanzi a Sua Maesta. C’era un altro a piedi, pur grasso, vestito 
di rosso alla corta, che parld et nel discorso andava orzando” a modo d’imbriaco, 
con la tazza in mano, che rassembrava d’esser il coppier dell’istesso Bacco. Riusci 
assai leggiero et goffo questo primo incontro; dopo seguitarono dodeci stravaganti 
mascherati, uno posto in una botte per traverso et gli altri in certi gran fiaschi di vimene 
molto ben fatti, et ballarono a suon di piffari et tromboni per un /74r/ pezzo con gesti 
varii et stravaggantissimi. Dopo venne un homazzo grande in forma di Hercole con 
la sua clava, il qual fece la lota con Antheo et altre cose, poi comparver dodeci putti 
mascherati che parevano tanti ranocchi. Ballarono similmente con diversi gesti siocchi 
et in un momento, caduti ciascheduno a terra, furono scacciati dal detto Hercole pid 
che in fretta. Si apri il monte con il girar di due porte et si vide fra’ monticelli sorger 
l’aurora in capo d’una prospettiva lontana, sendovi poste dai lati alcune finte colonne 
d’oro per far maggiore il sfondro. Comparve dinanzi al re Mercurio, il quale fece un 
discorso et poi venne un musico con un chittarone, vestito alla lunga, et sonando canto 
con qualche dispositione di gorga’', dinotando d’esser qualche nume; et nella scena 
poi comparvero molti musici vestiti alla lunga da sacerdoti, di rosso, con certe mitre 
d’oro, et in mezo c’era una dea vestita d’habito candido et lungo. Cantarono alcune 
cossette, non intese da noi, ben é vero, ché I’attione non passd con molto garbo, massime 
a gusto nostro, come svogliati delle gratiose et sonore musiche d’Italia. Comparvero 
finalmente 12 cavalieri mascherati, vestiti a livrea, sei con le calze intiere, sguarde” 
con li braggoni formati di liste 0 falde di raso bianco et fornite d’oro et d’argento, et 
sei altri con le braghesse”’ sotto il ginocchio, con le calcette pure incarnatine et scarpe 
bianche, il giuppone accompagnava bene et era fatto a modo di corsaletto alla romana 
antica, et in testa haveano capigliara™, corona et penacchiera bianca molto grande et 
nella faccia una mascheretta negra. Tutti questi discessero uniti dalla scena a modo 
di piramide, con spuntar sempre il solo principe. Fermati a terra, subito si senti la 
musica de’ violini con le sue parti sonore, al numero di pit di 25 o trenta, tutti in un 


19. Non siamo riusciti a decifrare meglio questo sostantivo. 

20. Andar a l’orza, barcollare (l’orza é una corda legata alla parte sinistra della nave). 
21. gorgheggiamento 

22. Non siamo riusciti a dare un senso a questo aggettivo. 

23. calzoni 


24. (anche cavegiara 0 cavegiere): capigliatura 





Anglipotrida 567 


palco. Fatta la riverenza a Sua Maesta, /74v/ cominciorno a ballare con quel medesimo 
ordine per un pezzo, molto a tempo et con varieta di cose, et poi s’andavano muttando 
in diverse forme fra di loro, sempre concludendo il salto uniti. Finito questo, ciaschedun 
prese la sua dama, il Signor Principe s’acoppio con la principal signora che si ritrovava 
fra quelle ch’erano disposte in ordinanza per ballare, et gli altri, di mano in mano, con 
regolato termine di far la riverenza prima a Sua Maesta et poi fra di loro, con infalibile 
osservanza. Fecero tutte le sorti di balletti et danze che si costumano in qualsivoglia 
paese, a modo di passamezzi, correnti, camarie, spagnolette et cento altri gesti fatti 
a pizzego”’, molto belli. Ballarono finalmente un alla volta la spagnoletta con la sua 
dama et perché erano quasi stracchi andavano serrando. II] re, come di natura colerica, 
diede in una impacienza et grid6 forte: “Perché non si balla? A che fin m’havete fatto 
venir qua? Che il diavol vi porti, quanti dove sete, ballate!” Subito saltd fuori il Signor 
Marchese di Bocchingham, mignon favoritissimo di Sua Maesta, con una mano di molto 
alte e minutissime capriole, accompagnate con tanta gratia et leggiadria che fece ammirar 
et inamorar ciascheduno della sua persona, non che hebbe forza di placar I’ira del suo 
alterato signore. Innanimiti, gli altri mascherati seguitarono a far le lor prodezze, un 
dopo l’altro, con differenti dame, concludendo pur con capriole et col levar di terra 
la sua diva. Furono numerate sino 34 capriole, tagliate una doppo I’altra da un cavaliere, 
tuttavia niuno artivo alla compita maniera del marchese. Il Signor Principe, nondimeno, 
supero tutti nelle creanze, essendo stato molte volte appuntato nel far le riverenze alla 
maesta del principe et alla dama con cui danzava, né mai si vide far un contratempo 
nel ballare come forse alcuni altri han fatto. Per l’eta giovenile non ha ancor /75r/ 
molta lena, con tutto cid ha spiccato alquante capriole con assai garbo. Fomito il cimento 
di questi dodeci virtuosi cavalieri, doppo haver superato I’otio et la crapula di Bacco, 
con prodezza il Signor Principe ando trionfante a baciar le mani al Serenissimo Padre, 
dal quale fu abbracciato et baciato caramente, et poi honor il Signor Marchese con 
straordinario affetto, toccandoli la faccia. Si levd da sedere Sua Maesta et condusse 
seco li signori ambasadori, passando per una quantita di camere et gallerie, arrivo in 
una salla dove era preparata la solita colatione per li recitanti, facendosi portar un lume 
innanzi, et dato un’occhiata tutto intorno la tavola, parti; et subito, come tante arpie, 
s’aventorno gli interessati alla rapina. La tavola era coperta quasi tutta di conditti, con 
molto poca confettione di zucchero. C’erano alcune figure assai grandi, ma erano di 
carto dipinto, per hornamento. La robba era posta in alcuni tondi o piatti di vetro, et 
nel primo assalto gettarono a terra il tavolone et nel fragor dei scudelini di vetro mi 
rassembrava appunto di sentire la rottura dei vetri della finestra da una gran tempesta 
nel colmo dell’estate. Si fini l’historia due hore doppo meza notte, et mezo stuffi et 
stracchi ritornammo a casa. Se le Vostre Signorie Illustrissime si torzeranno in legger 
O in sentire questa seccaggine, credino certo ch’io ancora ne sento nausea in rappresen- 
tarla. Pure metto in consideratione loro che se non le piacesse di riceverla per gustevol 


25. a piccego: lentamente 


568 ORAZIO BUSINO 


potrida, si compiacino almeno d’admetterla per un’insipida minestra, purché vadi in 
tavola. Et per fine faccio loro humilissima riverenza. 


Di Londra, li 24 di gennaro 1618. 


/76r/ DALLA SECONDA AGGIONTA DELLA ANGLIPOTRIDA 


[. . .] /76v/ Prendono giuoco gli Inglesi della nostra religione come di cosa detestabile 
et superstitiosa, né mai rappresentano qualsivoglia attione publica, sia pur tragisatiricom- 
mica, che non inserischino dentro vitii et scelleragini di qualche religioso catolico, 
facendone risate con molti scherni, con lor gusto et ramarico de’ buoni. Fu apunto 
veduto da’ nostri in una comedia introdur un frate franciscano, astuto et ripieno di varie 
impieta, cosi d’avaritia come di libidine, et il tutto poi riusci in una tragedia, facendoli 
mozzar la testa in scena. Un’altra volta reppresentarono la grandezza di un cardinale 
con li habiti formali et proprii molto belli et ricchi, con la sua corte, facendo in scena 
eriger un altare, dove finse di far orationi, ordinando una processione, et poi lo ridussero 
in publico con una meretrice in seno. Dimostro di dar il veleno ad una sua sorella per 
interesse d’honore et d’andar inoltre alla guerra con depponer prima I’habito cardinalitio 
sopra l’altare col mez[z]o de’ suoi cappellani, con gravita, et finalmente si fece cinger 
la spada, metter la serpa con tanto garbo che niente pit’®. Et tutto cid fanno in sprezzo 
delle grandezze ecclesiastiche vilipese et odiate a morte in questo regno. [. . .] 
Quanto alla giustitia, ¢ cosi severa et é ordinata con tanta regola che maggiore non 
puo essere in qualsivoglia luogo del mondo. II tutto procede dal rigore et dall’essatta 
diligenza che si costuma la notte di far le guardie da diversi officiali per tutte le contrade, 
tanto pit che ognuno é obbligato di poner sopra la sua porta 0 alle finestre delle botteghe 
un lume che arda la maggior parte della notte, et sempre tesseno su et git le guardie, 
ammate di certe lanzette, ronche et allabarde mangiate dalla rug[g]ine, che paiono appunto 
di quelle antiche con cui li manigoldi custodirono il Santo Sepolcro. Et da qui viene 
che veramente la notte si pud andar senz’arme et con l’oro in mano. Per qualsivoglia 
minimo latrocinio c’é la sentenza capitale: un figliuolo anco di 15 anni, nel primo delitto 
a latrocinio viene impiccato, se perd non sapesse leggere et scrivere, perché in tal caso 
di quella attitudine li condonano la morte, segnandolo d’un colpo di fuoco in una mano, 
et poi nel secondo furto lo impiccano iremissibilmente. Fu veduto pochi mesi sono 
condur alla forca un /78r/ fanciulo solo per haver rubbato un sacchetto d’uva passa. 
Ogni mese si da una ventillata alle pregioni, et giudicano in una stravagante maniera, 
conforme alla legge gia fatta sopra ogni delitto in questa guisa. II tribunale, formato 
d’alquanti giudici, fa chiamare 12 huomini di varie professioni, nominati juri, 1 quali 
essaminano il caso del reo, quanto alle accuse et alle difese, et fatta consideratione fra 
di loro intorno alla realta del fatto, s’accordano et ritornando al tribunale dicono una 
di queste due parole: ghilt overo non ghilt, che vuol dire “é reo” e “non é reo”. Et 


26. Si tratta del dramma di John Webster The Duchess of Malfy. 


Anglipotrida 569 


da qui procede la sentenza, senza misericordia, non ci essendo temperamento alcuno 
né di bando né di gallea, sempre s’intende di dover aspettar o morte o vita. Li 
conducono 25 alla volta ogni mese, oltre le straordinarie et repentine giustizie fra 
settimana, sopra d’una gran carretta a modo d’un palco alto, et se ne vanno tutti allegri 
et cantando col suo rosmarino in mano, seguitati dalli lor amici et parenti et da una 
moltitudine di popolo. Gionti alle forche, uno d’essi fa l’oratione per tutti, dicendo 
cinquanta parole et repplicata la musica gia imparata a loro bell’aggio nelle prigioni, 
il boia affretta il negotio cominciando da un capo ad attaccar il laccio di ciascheduno 
alla forca, tanto vicini l’un l’altro che si toccano, havendo leggate le mani dinanzi polso 
con polso, che hanno commodita di levarsi il cappello et salutare; uno di loro, 
spensierato, si riparava anco il sole dalla faccia. Il ministro finalmente smontato dal 
palco fa dare una sferzata alli cavalli della carretta et cosi restano appesi in aria, come 
appunto un mazzo di tordi grassi. /78v/ Stentano a morire da per loro, et se li proprii 
parenti overo gli amici non li tirassero per li piedi o pur non gli dassero de’ sassi nel 
petto, come fanno, la sortiriano male, cosa che ha propriamente del barbaro, et rende 
horrore al vederla. Non si sente qui mai strepito di questioni né per conseguenza si 
fanno homicidii, rispetto al timore della giustitia, come ho detto, et pit per disperatione 
0 diavolaria alle volte s’impiccano et s’affogano nell’acqua da se stessi, che altrimenti. 
[. . .| Non mi pare per hora d’esser pid lungo, opportunamente lasciando le Vostre 
Signorie Illustrissime alla fine d’un foglio et d’un banchetto, con far loro un brindesi 
della mia continuata serviti, col ginocchio sino in terra. 


Di Londra, a’ 7 febraro 1618 
/80r/ TERZA APENDICE DELL’ ANGLIPOTRIDA 


Sono molti giorni, per non dir mesi, ch’io ho tralasciato di scrivere alle Vostre Signorie 
Illustrissime, con darle ragguaglio delle cose osservate da me in questo regno, rispetto 
alla mia lunga indispositione. Hora che ho ricuperato, lodato Iddio, la sanita, debbo 
per continuare il mio promesso et dovuto ossequio far noto loro quello che per l’adietro 
mi scordai et giuntamente trattar di quello che di nuovo sono ito occulando. [. . .] 
Ritornando alli carrettoni di Londra, ve ne sono in tanta moltitudine di grandi et 
piccioli, cioé di due rote et di quattro, che sarebbe impossibile assegnar con verita un 
numero prefisso. Quelli che trafficano per la citta per lo pid sono di due grosse et alte 
rote, a guisa di quelli di Roma, coi quali conducono robbe diverse, cioé dire carboni, 
legna, etc., né tra questi ve ne sono di quelli lordissimi che attendono solamente a nettar 
le strade et a condur letami, et questi appunto per l’ordinario sono i maggiori insolenti 
del mondo. Li altri, di 4 rote, vengono dal paese, facendo alcuni condotte di robbe 
et passaggieri mescolati insieme, come precisamente fossero tante margherotte’’, et 
sono tirati da sette over otto cavalli in fila, uno dietro l’altro, con penacchiere, campanelli 
et certe coperte di pan[n]o ricamato. Et questi col calpestio fatto a mezo della profonda 


27. La margarota é un battello leggero a sei remi, usato per le corse in regata. 


570 ORAZIO BUSINO 


carrizzada™* rendono ne’ luoghi stretti il transito per il paese tanto incommodo che 
con carrozze di 4 cavalli non ci si pud riuscire, onde noi, che ultimamente facemmo 
viaggio lontano, havessimo a romper la carrozza stancando molto malamente le cavalle, 
ancorché siano assai ardite et franche. Nel qual viaggio, di cento e cinquanta miglia 
in spatio di sei giorni, vedemmo solamente due citta, l’una nominata Oxford e l’altra 
Cambrigi, dove concorre e studia tutta la gioventi del regno, la quale desidera 
d’incaminarsi per via delle lettere. Da questi studi escono buoni dottori, ma cattivi 
ministri dell’heresie. Nella prima vi sono pit /81v/ di 30 coleggi et un bellissimo studio 
pubblico con una libraria famosa, ripiena di infiniti et rarissimi libri di tutte le scienze 
et di linguaggi del mondo *Vi é anco un tomo in foglio pieno di relationi venete, alla 
barba della secretezza*”’ tenuti con regolarissimo ordine, e sempre si veggono 15 0 
venti toggati a studiare in essa, attentissimamente con iscrivere anco il succo della lor 
lettura. Questo studio pubblico é stato fondato o almeno ampliato da un heretico da 
pochi anni in qua, ma li coleggi vecchi sono stati instituiti da persone pie et religiose. 
Nella citta di Cambregi ritrovansi manco coleggi, ma sono pit grandi et forse molto 
meglio ordinati. Inciascheduna di queste due citta li coleggianti vanno vestiti con habito 
lungo, fodrato di pelle di cunigli, portandole cosi fodrate tanto l’inverno quanto |’estate. 
Altri coleggianti hanno in capo berette clericali, cioé in croce; altri si vagliono del 
capello. Sogliono alcuni per institutione andar in coro nelle lor chiese a salmeggiare. 
Vedemmo in detta citta molto da lontano una gran machina nominata la Chiesa del Re, 
fabricata da Henrico 6. Fu forza d’andare a sodisfare la nostra curiosita col considerar 
minutamente la sua struttura; é di una nave sola, di pietra tenera come di Nanto, con 
alcuni finestroni grandissimi intorno, con ugual proportione, di vetro dipinto, scorgendosi 
entro I’historie della Scrittura Sacra, cosi del Vecchio come del Nuovo Testamento, 
fatte con tanta maestria et artificio che il ministro facilmente ha superato di gran lunga 
il pittore che I’ha inventate col disegno. La chiesa é tutta nuda, in modo che, considerata 
Pimpieta, n’usci degli occhi le lagrime, in pensar anco le straggie degli altari. 
Ascendemmo una lumaca di 145 scalini di 8 onze l’uno, molto alta, et vedemmo, oltre 
il paese spatiosissimo, l’artificio del volto, lavorato di rilievo nel concavo, con bel modo, 
e nel convesso, cioé al di sopra di detto volto, /82v/ era conesso e fatto dalla detta pietra 
con straordinario artificio, senza pure una pietra cotta, et il coperto sopra detto volto 
é di legname tanto ben commesso et incastonato con certi gironi di legno, senza alcuni 
chiodi, et piti vestito nel colmo di grossissimi piombi, che ci fece trasecolar per lo 
stuppore. Dicono che quel legname grosso et bello del coperto, per occulta proprieta, 
non lascia regnar in esso di ragni né formar le loro tele. *Alcuni delli nostri perd dissero 
d’haverne viste.* 

Ritornammo all’hosteria per riposare et per ristorarci nell’hora della cena, et eccovi 
nella camera di Sua Eccellenza un giovine di questi coleggi con la toga da dottore, qual 


28. La carrizzada 0 carezada é i] solco lasciato sul selciato dalle ruote dei carri. 


29. La frase fra asterischi é scritta in margine. 





Anglipotrida 571 


era pero sordidamente imbriaco. Comincid a far cerimonie et complimenti con 
l’Eccellenza Sua, come se I’havesse conosciuta nel Bosforo, Tracia o nel Cimerio, e 
disse d’essere ambidester, volendo disputar di tutte le scientie con chi si voglia. Non 
fu mai possibile né all’interprete né a l’hoste di condurlo a basso. Sua Eccellenza, per 
staccarselo d’attorno, li ascennd che dovesse venir a disputar meco. Io gli mettei un 
dubbio in capo, per non dir in campo, et egli per la madidezza non rispose a proposito 
pur una parola, tuttavia si faceva sentir spesso con I’esalatione et vapori che dalla sua 
cantina gli uscivano. Torno finalmente da Sua Eccellenza, forzandosi d’ordinar un 
dialogo con bellissima latinita, inserendo in esso concetti contrapposti molto belli, et 
sebene |’Eccellenza Sua gli rispondeva molto meglio di quelli ch’io sapeva dire, 
nondimeno ogni quattro parole rivoltava a me, dandomi quanto poteva con la mano 
rovescia nel petto et dicendo: Expone, expone. Mi colse una volta nella punta delle 
dita, in modo ch’io fui astretto di scostarmi dal tinto dottore. La mattina comparve 
a far riverenza /83r/ et a chieder perdono dell’eccesso vespertino a Sua Eccellenza. 
[. . .| Vedemmo ultimamente un luogo campestre di fabriche antiche si, ma il sito 
é molto degno et bello che percid é stato di nuovo comprato dal Serafino d’Inghilterra, 
cioé dal Signor Marchese di Bochinghem, et é in una foresta cosi vagga che per certo 
lo invitera a spender una buona quantita d’oro per ristaurarlo. Sua Maesta s’é degnata 
heri d’andarvi per vederlo et per restar a pranso lautissimo col detto Signor Marchese, 
preparato in un artificiosissimo bosco, il quale é strapiantato a modo d’un galeazzo con 
la sua sala, camera di presenza, da letto, et retrocamera col gabbinetto, et cose simili 
con tirar da un albero all’altro le tappezzarie et tanto s’é compiaciuta la Maesta Sua 
che ha disegnato di celebrar ivi il giorno della sua nativita, facendo essa le spese; onde 
hoggi restituira, per cosi dire, il banchetto al suo amatissimo marchese. Mi convien 
far punto, per non abbusar la gratia delle Vostre Signorie Illustrissime con I’estensione 
di pit larga scrittura, facendo loro humilissima riverenza. 


Di Londra, alli 29 di giugno 1618 
frocua) 


/90r/ QUINTA AGGIONTA 


Con molta ragione invero il Mare Oceano é stato da alcuni assimigliato al gran padre 
Abrammo. Hora io, lasciando da parte le pid essatte comparationi che filosofando intorno 
ad essi, si potrebbono adurre rimettendole alli giudiciosi ingegni, solo m’appiglierd a 
quelle poche et meno importanti che per empir un foglio mi verranno in taglio. Se 
si considera dunque |’antichita di Abrammo, |’Oceano come primiero nella creatione 
resta egli il pid glorioso. Se quello di nobilta s’avicina, questo si compiace pure d’ essere 
grandioso e grande; se pareggiano fra di loro di lunghezza di vita, quegli alla fine divenne 
vecchio et hora giace estinto, questi non mai perde le forze né meno pud morire, sebene 
alle volte incanutisce a tempo, per vigore del vento, et d’avantaggio egli é gagliardo, 
corre, passeggia, tuona, balla e canta, né mai si stanca né cura di riposo. Se per 
fecondita gran prole hebbe quegli, e nondimeno questi l’avanza di gran lunga con tanti 


=o e4 ORAZIO BUSINO 


mari, laghi, stagni, piscine, fiumi, fontane et moltitudine infinita di ruscelli; se di 
ricchezze quegli povero si poteva dire, essendo questi ripieno di quantita di gioie, belle 
perle, pietre pretiose, molti coralli rossi, bianchi et neri, et é gravido insomma di 
Copiosissimi tesori. Se quello nelle guerre fu spesso vitorioso et pit che fortunato, questo 
gia mai prese sconfitta né danno alcuno, anzi assorbe gli troppo arditi, tirando molte 
navi al profondo, cariche non meno /90v/ di varie merci che d’innaveduta et poco 
aventurata gente. Et quantunque il predetto grande Oceano habbi cotali belle prerogative, 
tuttavia in questa prelibatissima isola d’Inghilterra tiene spesso il nome d’insolente, poiché 
col suo mal modo di procedere, non lasciando nel corso dell’anno libero un mese, una 
settimana, un giorno, che in alcun hora non venghi con li suoi densi vapori ad oscurar 
ilsole. In pregiuditio certo di molti che non sono assueffatti a tali condormie, ma molto 
pit: di queste vaghe et leggiadre dame le quale, sebene non si vagliano di esso in 
rasciugarsi il capo, bastandoli assai d’usar il pettine, con spruzzarsi poi sopra i capelli 
polvere di Cipro et altri odori, tuttavia si compiacciono di lui forse per temprar alquanto 
il loro candore o per meglio poter nelle risplendenti giornate goder de’ loro gusti 
inumerabili, non ponendo molta cura in altro che in giuocchi, scherzi, in varieta di 
lascivie et mommarie*’. Vivono felici senza molestia alcuna né di troppo caldo che 
levi loro l’apetito né che le agghiaccia l’eccessivo freddo, essendo quivi, mentre il vento 
non spira una perpetua primavera. Sono essenti d’ogni venenoso animale, non si sente 
gracidare rane né /90v/ cantar troppo le cicale, non si vede mosche, se non di rado, 
non si patisce l’insolente molestia delle pulce, non ve ne essendo alcune, se non per 
disgratia, ma quello che pit importa, li cimici, sono sbanditi affatto. Non si sente mai 
quel sonoro animaletto che zanzara s’adimanda, né meno quel suo parente molto maggio- 
re, solito a nascer ne’ canetti et nei paludi, atto ad ammazzar sino i Sansoni. O felicita 
rara di questo regno! Qualsivoglia donna, per nobile che sia, havendo anco il marito, 
non resta percid che non tenghi il suo Valentino, et gli huomini ancora hanno le lor 
Valentine, ogni anno si muta il trionfo in questa guisa. La sera precedente la festa di 
S. Valentino pongono in due bossoli diversi bollettini d’huomini et donne, cavandoli 
poi fuori a vicenda, maschio et femina, et quelli che s’accoppiano per sorte, s’uniscono 
anco molto piti d’un leale amore. Si presentano, si banchettano et inoltre conservano 
li sodetti bollettini ogni uno da per sé. *Per[6] alquanti de gli huomini li posano al 
cappello et le done fissi al petto* con far anche scolpiti in oro i nomi loro, con regola 
ferma che ’! Valentino debbi baciare la sua dama mentre la incontra. Né paia strano 
cid alle Vostre Signorie Illustrissime, perché l’istesso stile s’usa anco in Corte, non 
escludendo il re, il principe et la regina, alla quale é solito di baciarsi la /91v/ mano 
solamente. Se mi fosse lecito di metter su carta alcune altre particolarita che si costu- 
mano fra la gente mediocre et bassa, farei stupire. 


30. mascherate (Fr. mémeries) 


Anglipotrida 573 


Scrissi altre volte dell’habito et conciero*' diverso di queste donne, ma giudicando 
di non haver sodisfatto a pieno, debbo in questo luogo molto opportuno aggiungere 
qualche cosa, massime havendone parlato oggi a tavola Sua Eccellenza. 

Sono cosi varie et lascivamente accontie et ben vestite che niente pit, essendo in 
liberta d’ogni stato, et conditione di persone d’inventare nuovi caprici et percid alcune 
portano in testa certe bende lavorate con bei merli et facendole piegare alla fronte 
vengono a formare li fonghetti alle tempie, altre hanno certo lavoriero” largo sopra 
le orecchie che pare che habbino in testa le ali del cappelletto di messer Mercurio, altre 
tengono il cappello di diversa forma, altre un picciolissimo cimiero, altre una solana 
di seta non molto grande con certo vello riccio in cima che pare appunto una mammella, 
altre hanno alcune becche®’ di veluto negro voltate dalla coppa alla fronte, altre certe 
scuffiotte ricamate che abbracciono tutto il capo, et altre finalmente tengono li biondi 
capelli scoperti, sopra li quali vi mettono una coronetta di seta et oro, portando anco 
il penaccio in testa, hora alto, /92r/ hora di dietro il capo, pure per traverso. Delli 
vestiti s’io ne volessi ragionar perfettamente, sarebbe impossibile, rispetto alla verita 
della materia, della forma et dei varii colori. Dissi gia che alcune vanno scoperte nel 
petto, altre chiuse, altre portano un penacchio raddoppiato in mano per ventaglio, altre 
niente, ma tutte tengono li guanti molto ricchi; il qual uso dei guanti é cosi universale 
che sino li facchini li portano in mano, con molta prosopopea, andando anco vestiti 
di buon pan[njo, con un habito di tela sopra et ad armacollo il sacco, che paiono tanti 
alfieri. 

Hora mi conviene ritornar in villa, poiché andammo ultimamente ad Antoncurte 
[Hampton Court], luogo pure del Re Serenissimo, il pit: grande et magnifico che sin 
hora habbiamo veduto, cosi per la varieta di fabriche come per il lungo et largo circuito 
di giardini, brolli et parchi, tutti cinti d’una buona et sicura muraglia, et ¢ adornato 
di tutte quelle commodita et delicie che si pud desiderare. Henrico ottavo se lo godeva 
molto spesso, et ha lasciato ivi memoria di lui non ordinaria, cioé di suppellettile 
numerosa, di razzi ricchissimi di seta et oro, altri di lana finissima con bellissime historie 
sacre et profane et di cose favolose ancora. Dimorava volontieri in una camera nominata 
il Paradiso, et a ragione veramente, essendo adornata di pitture molto degne et di 
tappezzarie superbissime, et nel baldachino si vedono sopra il ricamo inserte molte pietre 
preciose di gran valuta, et sopra il /92v/ tutto di buoni rubini et ottimi diamanti, con 
moltitudine di grosse perle, le quali circondano il disegno, ma ben disposte. Questa 
camera, appunto per quello che ci fu detto, era il luogo peculiare ove il detto re Henrico 
godeé dei primi amori di Anna Bolena, et buono sarebbe per loro se havessero a questa 
hora nell’altro mondo tante delitie et aggio. 


31. conzier: acconciatura 
32. laorier: lavoro 


33. béca: striscia di cordone portata ad armacollo 


574 ORAZIO BUSINO 


[. . .] Andammo questi giorni passati a vedere un palazzo del Signor Conte 
d’Esseter, posto in un sito amenissimo, col suo parco, giardini, fontane, strade coperte, 
spinate™ altissime a guisa di muraglia, tutte di spin bianco, et un brollo maraviglioso, 
circondato di muraglia, et é della grandezza di quello di Piazzola,** compartito con 
diverse strade, le quali constituiscono gli angoli acuti, dando molta sodisfattione a 
l’occhio, et la maggior parte d’esse sono tenute anco nette di herba, con eccessiva spesa, 
et hanno in capo nell’istessa muraglia alcuni luoghi coperti da sedere, a guisa di loggiette. 
In una parte posta in mezo giorno vi é un vignale basso, qual ha le viti appoggiate a 
palli, assai bello, ma credo che quest’anno, rispetto all’estate assai freddetto, habbi di 
produr perfetta agresta**, abenché il patrone speri di cavarne ottimo vino. II luogo 
veramente per ogni verso é deliciosissimo et é tale che ’l re istesso determino d’andarci 
l’altro hieri a diporto con tutta la sua Corte. Dove il Signor Conte gli fece lautissimo 
banchetto et perché dietro alla Corte concorre una moltitudine di passavolanti*’, oltre 
le cuccine ordinarie per Sua Maesta et per la Corte. Nelli cortili fu mangiato a scota- 
dito*, via dalli spiedi, due gran bo’, /93v/ tre o vero quattro vitelli et trenta castrati 
grassi; della bevanda di bira, poi, non si parla, perché quivi si tiene corte bandita sempre. 

Sono gia giunto al termine honesto delli due fogli et percid mi convien far fine et 
insieme scusa, se in essi c’é poco di buono, per non dir nulla, et alle Vostre Signorie 
Illustrissime bacio humilissimamente le mani. 


Di Londra, li xix di luglio 1618. 


34. siepi di spine 


35. A Piazzola sul Brenta, cittadina situata tra Padova e Vicenza, la famiglia Contariniaveva 
numerosi possedimenti. I] giardino (“brollo”) qui menzionato doveva appartenere ai Contarini. 


36. tipo di uva che non giunge mai a completa maturazione 
37. militari che prestavano servizio saltuario e temporaneo (Battaglia) 


38. Questa potrebbe essere la prima attestazione del lemma: il Palazzi-Folena la data solo 
del 1970! 





CYNTHIA C. CRAIG 


Giacomo Casanova’s “Mondes ou iles”: 
A Microcosm of Utopia 


While Casanova’s most widely-read work is his twelve-volume autobiography, the 
Histoire de ma vie, in his lifetime he saw twenty-four of his texts reach print, 
including not only several other autobiographical texts but plays, political and 
historical tracts, and fictional works in several genres.' The published texts are 
eclipsed, however, both in variety and number, by the manuscript pages left upon 
his death in 1798 at the Waldstein Castle in Duchsov (formerly Dux), in today’s 
Czech Republic. James Rives Childs estimated their number at 8,000, and cited 
a description of their contents written by Arthur Symons following an 1899 visit 
to Duchsov.* Besides “series after series of manuscripts ... [and] bundles of 
letters,” Symons found, among other items, “washing-bills, accounts, hotel bills, 
lists of letters written, first drafts of letters ... notes on books, theological and 
mathematical notes, sums, Latin quotations ... a long list of classical names which 
have and have not been francisés ... ‘what I must wear at Dresden,’ headings 
without anything to follow.”* Those pages which were not sold to visitors by 
enterprising Waldstein servants in the intervening years have come to rest in 
Prague’s Statni Oblastni Archiv, and many of historical or literary interest have 
been transcribed and published; clearly, however, many are difficult to categorize 
and are mainly regarded as curiosities attesting to Casanova’s encyclopedic mind 
and penchant for amassing detail, as well as the need to relieve the undeniable 
boredom of his last years through writing. 

In this light, the prevalence of lists among these manuscripts may be seen very 
generally as an adjunct to the autobiographical act: a means to simultaneously 
organize the mass of materials and the memories they suggest, to bear witness to 


1. Giacomo Casanova, Histoire de ma vie, édition intégrale (Wiesbaden: F.A. Brockhaus, 
Paris: Plon, 1960); English translation: History of My Life, tr. Willard R. Trask (New York: 
Harcourt, Brace, and World, 1966). 


2. I cite the figure given by James Rives Childs, Casanova: A New Perspective (New York: 
Paragon House, 1988), p. 316, note 5. 


3. Symons is quoted by Childs in his Casanoviana: An Annotated World Biography of 
Jacques Casanova de Seingalt and of Works Concerning Him (Vienna: Christian M. 
Nebehay, 1956), p. 105. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


576 CYNTHIA C. CRAIG 


the physical details and philosophical exercises of a life drawing to its close, and 
to while away the time. U 17a-18, for example, juxtaposes a list of articles of 
clothing: “3 bonnets, 3 cols, 5 bas, 12 mouchoirs,” with a notation regarding the 
death of Charlotte, one of the most compelling episodes of the Histoire de ma vie: 
“dans le méme jour de la mort de Charlotte je recois celle [sic] de la mort de 
Monsieur de Bragadin.”* 

Many of these lists lack not only narrative components but any revealing 
indications, whether of genre, audience, or even date of composition, and are 
highly resistant to anything but speculative and superficial readings. One, however, 
entitled “Mondes ou iles,” invites more detailed study through its title, alluding 
as it does to experimentation with genre, and prompts an intertextual reading 
through its evocation of Casanova’s five volume utopian novel, the Jcosameron.° 

Its appearance is modest: a single page filled on one side with sixty brief 
entries (two, malades and amoureux, are repeated) in Casanova’s hand. Written 
in French, it is divided into two columns, ona sheet measuring 35 by 21 1/2 cm. 
It has neither introduction nor conclusion, page number nor note of explanation, 
nor reference to a letter which might have accompanied it. And yet the reader is 
not utterly without resources when faced with a document of this sort, for many 
of Casanova’s texts share a tendency to reflect self-consciously upon narrative and 
mutually reveal textual strategies. 

Casanova was doubtless familiar with specific works in the traditions of the 
conte de fées, imaginary voyage, and utopia; he inverted Voltaire’s tale Micromégas 
into the “Mégamicres” of his own Icosameron. In the Histoire de ma vie he refers 
to Crébillon fils’s Le Sopha (1742), whose fairy tale motif of an animate piece of 
furniture is shared with the list’s entry ofan “ile des meubles animés.” And though 
Casanova professed to detest Rabelais, “Mondes ou iles” perhaps recalls most 
closely his works, similarly replete with lists, mixtures of the elevated and the 
coarse, the philosophical and the grotesque, and, above all, islands inhabited by 


4. See Casanova, Histoire de ma vie, livre X, ch. XI. 


5. Giacomo Casanova, “Mondes ou iles”: Statni Oblastni Archiv Praha, fonds Casanova, 
U 16h/30. For their help in locating this document, I would like to thank Mmes. Tarantova 
of the Statni Oblastni Archiv, Milusé Kuhnova and Valerie Kopecky Craig. Giacomo 
Casanova’s Icosameron ou les aventures d’Edouard et d’Elisabeth qui passerent quatre- 
vingts-un ans chez les Mégamicres habitans aborigénes du Protocosme dans l’intérieur de 
notre globe, traduit de l’anglais (Prague: Imprimerie de l'Ecole Normale, 1788) was 
reprinted 1 in 1986 by Les Editions d’ Aujourd’hui, “Les Introuvables.” The latter edition, 
used in this study, reproduces the text of the Claudio Argentieri edition (Spoleto, 1928). 
All citations from the Jcosameron will appear in the text listed by volume number (in Roman 
numerals) followed by page number (in Arabic numerals, with Roman numerals for the 
preface). 





Casanova’s “Mondes ou iles”: A Microcosm of Utopia S77 


creatures such as the macraeons (“gens qui vivent longtemps”), the tapinois (“gens 
craintifs”), and the Chaneph (“hypocrites”).° 

As sketchy as it is, the document’s breadth is characteristically encyclopedic. 
Its entries’ origins range from myth, fable, and other classical sources to science, 
medicine and philosophy; many consist of representative types from allegory and 
comedy, and as such vary from the refined to the coarse. Some order is lent to 
the list by its tendency to fall into antithetical pairs: croyans/athées; beauté/laideur; 
doutteurs/certains; aveugles/sourds. Less frequently, terms are linked by affinity: 
peintres/sculpteurs. In most cases such items occur next to eachother, hinting that 
the list was composed through a natural association of ideas and not in response 
to any other schema. 

While there are many different ways to catalogue these items, the largest 
number of terms can be categorized as reflecting personal habits, characteristics, 
or emotional traits, ranging from the refined to the vulgar and comic: amoureux, 
ivrognes, hypocrites/impies, rieurs, imposteurs, menteurs, peureux, oublieurs, fous, 
voiageurs, inspirés, babillards, adorateurs, avares, badins. The next largest set 
of terms refers to penchant or occupation, again from the most elevated to the 
pedestrian, the scientific and pseudo-scientific to the political: chymistes, voleurs, 
geometres, mechaniciens, legislateurs, musiciens, alchimistes, antiquaires, electri- 
sSants, magnetisans, architectes, peintres, sculpteurs, astronomes, cuisiniers, and 
possibly bagatelliers. Many refer to religious concepts or temperaments: /e paradis 
sans mémoire, l’enfer sans mémoire, le purgatoire avec mémoire, croyans, athées, 
possedés, repentans; possibly esprits. Philosophies or philosophical turns of mind 
too are represented: penseurs, doutteurs, certains, materialistes. There are both 
idealized and aberrant visions of the body: chieurs, paralitiques, polyformes, 
malades, vieillards qui meurent a la mamelle, beauté, laideur, sourds, aveugles, 
femmes. Some elude categorization: an ile des lots, for example. Strictly magical 
entries are relatively few in number: immortels, meubles animés, magiciens, parlans 
par écrit. 

An archival search may yet provide a context for this document. In the 
meantime, however, both its appearance and its contents reveal an intriguing set 
of characteristics, implying narrative and dialectic despite its brevity, and linking 
it more generally to Casanova’s experimentations with genre. Its painstaking 


6. See Giacomo Casanova, “L’Esprit de l’/cosameron,” manuscrit, reprinted in his Histoire 
de ma vie, suivi de textes inédits, édition présentée et établie par Francis Lacassin (Paris: 
Robert Laffont, 1993), pp. 1076-1092 (this edition is a reprinting of the Brockhaus-Plon 
text of the Histoire de ma vie with additional materials, many of them archival, appended). 
The reference to Rabelais is found on p. 1092. See also Casanova, ”Confutation de deux 
articles diffamatoires parus dans la Gazette d’léna,” manuscript, Statni Oblastni Archiv 
Praha, fonds Casanova, BOB U23, folios 164-183 and 152-161, also reprinted in the 
Laffont/Lacassin edition, pp. 1049-1076, and in particular pp. 1064 and 1073. 


578 CYNTHIA C. CRAIG 


two-columned structure and carefully indented entries notwithstanding, the list’s 
repetitions betray a certain carelessness which hints of the whiling away of time, 
the casual exploration of an idea. This of course is not incongruous with what is 
known, both through his own complaints and the observations of acquaintances, 
of Casanova’s attempts to dispel the tedium of his existence in Dux through 
voluminous writing. Thus its entries quickly fall into groupings by affinity or 
disparity, with one category often leading directly to the next. There are signs of 
undisciplined thought, such as the already noted duplications, and one wonders what 
may be deduced from the juxtaposition of amoureux with ivrognes in one instance 
and with fous and badins in another. There are also additions that seem to be 
afterthoughts, standing out by their singularity: repentans, juxtaposed with poly- 
formes and adorateurs, is part of neither the paradis/enfer/purgatoire sequence nor 
the croyans/athées pairing. All items, however, revolve about central motif, 
“Mondes ou iles,” which ties the text to issues of genre, and specifically to utopia 
and the imaginary voyage, and thus to Casanova’s Icosameron. 

The title gives focus and direction to the document, uniting all, even the most 
disparate or banal of the entries. The motif of the island or world converts all of 
the varied entries, elegant and vulgar, philosophical and religious, physical and 
intellectual, into the realm of fantasy and the exotic, simply by imposing multiplica- 
tion and exclusion. For while one ivrogne or chieur is a distasteful spectacle, or 
at best a curiosity, an island or world of them is an anthropological phenomenon 
that hints of the supernatural. The difference between an architect and an island 
of architects implies a challenge to the laws of nature and the precepts of culture 
and society. Is such a world possible, and what phenomena, heretofore unknown, 
resulted in its existence and discovery? What laws, natural, supernatural, and 
man-made, govern it? How is it structured, geographically, legally, administrative- 
ly, reproductively? Beyond the supernatural, these questions suggest utopia and 
dystopia, travel and exile. “Ile” suggests isolation, “monde” suggests uniformity, 
exclusivity; both terms decenter our own culture and question our privileged 
position in the universe, implying a dialectic on norms, religion, beliefs, even 
gender. And the pairs of opposites imply a dialectic of utopia and dystopia. 

Such a dialectic is an integral part of the Jcosameron, whose premise of the 
imaginary voyage places the reader’s world in direct confrontation with both a 
utopian society founded by Edouard and Elisabeth and the supernatural world of 
the Mégamicres. In rendering this latter world Casanova makes use of many of 
the motifs from “Mondes ou iles”: the Mégamicres employ “electrisation” as a 
medical practice, study the “beaux arts ... et ... la Physique, la Géometrie Sublime, 
les Mécaniques, et la Jurisprudence. IIs sont tous Géographes, et Musiciens ... 
tous les chymistes sont cuisiniers” (I, xxii-xxiii). And of course, young as well 
as “vieillards,” all the Mégamicres find nourishment “a la mamelle,” one of the 
foundations of their social relationships and a preoccupation shared by many 
eighteenth-century writers (Rousseau, for example). 





Casanova’s “Mondes ou iles”: A Microcosm of Utopia 579 


These associations help make the “Mondes ou iles” document a surprisingly 
eloquent one despite its limitations which are both evident and enormous. The 
more fully developed /cosameron casts a large shadow, under which it is difficult 
not to read the schematic “Mondes ou iles” as an incomplete experiment. Yet, 
though it is tempting to conclude that “Mondes ou iles” represents a first phase 
in the development of the Jcosameron, there are no substantial grounds other than 
length for assuming this to be the case. Lack of proof for one or the other text’s 
ascendancy notwithstanding, this tendency to assume some generative relationship 
is reinforced by the two texts’ many similarities. 

This fragment is, on the surface, a text without narrative, without the Jcosame- 
ron’s “aventures” or the autobiographical texts’ “histoire,” a text that does not 
seem to envision a reader at all, or make few if any concessions to one, other than 
reflexively to the writer himself whose time it consumed, and whose imagination 
Or memory it may have served to stimulate. Yet the dialectic implied by the 
structure alone of “Mondes ou iles” supplies something not unlike narrative. And 
though it lacks the Icosameron’s and the Histoire de ma vie’s specific instructions 
to the reader, the title itself acts, to a certain degree, as such an instruction, 
succinct and compelling. Whether it followed or preceded the Icosameron—or was 
written concurrently with it—its microcosm of utopia and dialectic contributes to 
the understanding of the worlds within utopian texts on the part of the reader it 
never acknowledges. 


Michigan State University 


580 


CYNTHIA C. CRAIG 


Mondes ou iles 


192 


L’ile des vieillards qui meurent 4 la mamelle 


L’ile des immortels 
L’ile des croyans 


Des athées 

Des parlans par ecrit 

Des lots 

De la femme 

Des chymistes 

Des meubles animés 

Des magiciens 

Des ivrognes 

Des amoureux 

Le Paradis sans memoire 

L’enfer sans memoire 
avec memoire 

Le Purgatoire sans 

L’ile des hypocrites ou impies 

De la beauté 

De la laideur 

Des esprits 

Des voleurs 

Des materialistes 

Des geometres 

Des malades 

Des rieurs 

Des penseurs 

Des imposteurs 

Des menteurs 

Des peureux 

Des chieurs 


30 


Des bagatelliers 
Des mechaniciens 
Des oublieurs 
Des legislateurs 
Des doutteurs 
Des certains 
Des fous 

Des amoureux 
Des badins 

Des musiciens 
Des aveugles 
Des sourds 

Des alchimistes 
Des possedés 
Des electrisants 
Des magnetisans 
Des antiquaires 
Des voiageurs 
Des paralitiques 
Des inspirés 
Des architectes 
Des peintres 
Des sculpteurs 
Des babillards 
Des adorateurs 
Des repentans 
Des polyformes 
Des astronomes 
Des malades 
Des cuisiniers 
Des avares 








Casanova’s “Mondes ou iles”: A Microcosm of Utopia 


Morty rm ile 


492, 


fs (EUG ESAs) fri meet dh hae 

~& ile des jrmevion 39 

ile dex cron ans Day Faye ove 
er a thay D ed 
By [elon pom ews ‘Dros or hewrs 
a 


De be farme UWL aS 
Dg chien bas i ats 
Ba, alles Onumos Bu ieee 


LO rag ans De Vie SS, 
wf. Wayne: Se ee OTST ad 
Ji, Aahruwh re Pac aenylr 
Dardis dans Saanrare Du pod? 
a Oat | 3s, Ee 
A onfer foam ica pn 7 poe 
A Pingotiirn i923 AE Oo 


xv cL dee ype ther pape fla anc ae 


Bb dooot gt 
Dut meni Baa th vas 
; a4 Ay 
Das i; Poke By alae 
Der profervicl iter Dun points 
Ax Lantos Iu perl linmd 
Dy: Views WY, aturiwfews 
pS) weit De repar|nns 
“pm 
BF (mpoteun Jur [ay foomas 
yy ey LE Lx at howomeas 
a Ritch ees 
‘Ne; rey LA tinicnintioates 


I es avorw 


581 


PAUL TUCKER 





‘Right Conclusions’: 
Seven Unpublished Letters (1845-46) 
from John Ruskin to John Murray 


The letters published here for the first time' mostly date from the winter between 
Ruskin’s two Italian tours of 1845 and 1846. They comprise a series of detailed 
criticisms, made following Ruskin’s recent use of it in Italy, of the first edition 
(1842) of the Hand-Book for Travellers in Northern Italy, one of an innovative series 
of guides initiated in 1836 by John Murray II, and continued after his death in 1843 
by his son, John Murray Il. The idea for the series had come from the younger 
Murray, and was the fruit of his own travelling experience.* In a later account of 
the genesis of this pioneering publishing enterprise, John Murray III recalled how, 
travelling on the Continent in 1829, he had found himself in territory not covered 
by the existing guides and had been obliged to gather his own information on 
“history, architecture, geology and other subjects suited to a traveller’s need”.? 
These private notes were then published as the first Hand-Book, thus establishing 
the hallmark of the series: reliable, practical information gathered on the spot. 
Murray summarised his aims and methods as follows: “Arriving at a city like Berlin, 
I had to find out what was really worth seeing there, to make a selection of such 
objects, and to tell how best to see them, avoiding the ordinary practice of local 
guidebooks, which, in inflated language, cram in everything that can possibly be 
said—not bewildering my readers by describing all that might be seen—and using 
the most condensed and simplest style in description of special objects. I made it 
my aim to point out things peculiar to the spot, or which might be better seen there 


1. The letters are now in the archives of John Murray Ltd, Albermarle St., London. I am grateful 
to John Murray Ltd for permission to publish them’ and to quote from other letters in their 
archives. I also thank the literary trustees of John Ruskin for permission to publish the Mss, and 
Luigi Monga for the opportunity to do so. I should lastly like to acknowledge the generous help 
and advice given me by Paola Barocchi, Antonino Caleca, Jeanne Clegg, J. S. Dearden, Donata 
Levi, and Virginia Murray. 

2. Previous Hand-Books had been for “the Continent” (Holland, Belgium, Prussia, Northern 
Germany and the Rhine from Holland to Switzerland; 1836), Southern Germany (1837), 
Switzerland (1838), “Northern Europe” (Scandinavia and Russia; 1839) and “the East” (Greece, 
Turkey and Malta; 1840). 

3. From an article in Murray’s Magazine for 1887, quoted in W.B.C. Lister, A Bibliography 
for Murray’s Handbooks for Travellers (Dereham Books, 1993), iv. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 








John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 583 


than elsewhere.”* And when Murray later took over the running of the firm from 
his father, and was thus unable to continue writing the Hand-books himself, these 
were the aims and methods he demanded from the friends and colleagues from whom 
he commissioned new titles for the series. 

Murray had been especially eager to cover Italy, but in the event the task was 
divided between Sir Francis Palgrave, who wrote the Hand-Book for Travellers in 
Northern Italy and to Octavian Blewitt, author of the volume on Central Italy (1843). 
Palgrave (1788-1861) had abandoned a career as a solicitor to devote himself to 
historical and antiquarian research. The author of numerous books and articles on 
English and Northern European history and folk-culture, he had since 1821 been 
active in reforming the national archives, editing a series of documents for the 
Records Commission between 1827 and 1837. He had been knighted in 1832 and 
appointed the first Deputy Keeper of Records in 1838. An important article on “The 
Fine Arts in Florence’ published in the Quarterly Review for September 1840,° in 
which he argues for a conception of the fine arts as “the result of the feelings of the 
people” and as rooted in practical craft, and so opposed to modern mechanistic 
modes of production and divisions of labour, has earned him the title of “a Precursor 
of Ruskin.”° 

This article was probably in part the result of Palgrave’s work on Northern Italy, 
as a letter in the Murray archives shows that he had already accepted the commission 
in July 1839.’ Unable to travel in Italy that summer for his own “actual observa- 
tion,” Palgrave asked whether it would be possible to delay the publication of the 
Hand-Book, especially because “the ensuing winters would not be more than 
sufficient for the working up of the printed materials, at least according to my notions 
of the work.” These demanded that it be a sort of digest of all that “modem 
authorities” had said about the buildings and works of art. Evidence of Palgrave’s 
preparatory reading is scattered throughout his guide, as well as in the substantial 
bibliographical section relating specifically to the fine arts,® in which he advises the 
traveller to supplement his reading of the delightful but “unmethodical and uncritical” 
Vasari by the works not only of modern Italian writers, such as Luigi Lanzi,’ 
Leopoldo Cicognara’’ and Giovanni Rosini,'' but also of the founder of the new 


4. Lister, v. 


5. A review of the 1838 edition of Le opere di Giorgio Vasari, pittore e architetto aretino 
(Firenze, 1838), Carlo Mobbio, Storie dei municipj italiani (Milano, 1838) and Conte Pompeo 
Litta, Storia delle famiglie celebri italiane (Milano, 1839). 


6. See Richard Garnett, ‘Sir Francis Palgrave as a Precursor of Ruskin,’ Hampstead Annual 
(1901), 51-62. 


7. Letterbook 1839-46, letter from Palgrave to Murray, Hampstead 31 July 1839. 


8. See the Hand-Book for Travellers in Northern Italy (London, 1842, 1843 [as often happened, 
this ed. was bound up with differently dated title-pages), xxii. This ed. henceforward referred 
to as HTNI 1842, the 3rd as HTN 1847. 


9. Storia pittorica dell’Italia (Bassano, 1795-96, definitive ed. Bassano 1809). 
10. Storia della scultura dal suo risorgimento in Italia fino al secolo di Canova (Venezia, 1813- 


584 PAUL TUCKER 


German school of art-history, Karl Friedrich von Rumohr,” of Karl Ottfried 
Miiller,'* and of Franz Kugler, an English edition of part of whose Handbuch der 
Geschichte der Malerei (1837) was published the same year by Murray." 
Palgrave’s emphasis on architectural and sculptural “antiquities of the early 
Christian period,” not to mention the “allegorical and Scriptural pictures of the 
middle ages,” all ignored by previous travellers and writers “who had sought and 
found nothing excepting classical reminiscences, painting and Palladian architec- 
ture,”'> in addition to the extensive, up-to-date practical information offered by the 
new guide, guaranteed Murray’s Hand-Book a place in Ruskin’s luggage in 1845. 
The primary aim of this tour was after all to improve his knowledge of Italian 
painting, especially of the earlier Tuscan schools. Ruskin’s use of the guide is also 
explained by his personal acquaintance with its publisher, who, as emerges both from 
the young critic’s letters to his parents'® and in Letter 1 from Ruskin to Murray in 
the Murray archives, had asked Ruskin some time prior to his departure to write 
a review of a book by Sir Charles Bell for the Quarterly Review. Murray seems 
also to have requested him to supply comments on the usefulness and accuracy or 
otherwise of the Hand-Book.'’ This was standard practice: the MSS of the Hand- 
Books had from the start been submitted to other travellers for criticism,'® and 
readers had been invited to make use of the printed form provided to send in their 
suggestions for supplementing or improving them. Ruskin appends some comments 
to the letter, written from Florence around the middle of June, in which he apologises 
for not being able to write a review of Sir Charles Bell’s book. But the bulk of his 
suggested emendations was not sent until the following winter, after his return to 
England. It is likely that his cooperation had been personally re-solicited by Murray, 
since by this time the publisher was planning a second edition of Northern Italy, 
which had been criticised and which he was evidently anxious to improve.'? On 


18; 2nd ed. Prato, 1823). 

11. Storia della pittura italiana esposta coi monumenti (Pisa, 1838-47). 
12. Italienische Forschungen (1827-31). 

13. Handbuch der Archdologie der Kunst (1833). 


14. Hand-Book of the History of Painting, from the Age of Constantine the Great to the Present 
Time. In Two Parts. Part I. - The Italian Schools of Painting, ed. Charles Eastlake [London, 
1842]. 

15. HTNI 1842, x. 


16. Ruskin in Italy: Letters to his Parents 1845, ed. H. Shapiro (Oxford, 1972), In, 115. The 
volume will henceforward be cited as Ril. 


17. See Letter I. 


18. See Lister, iv and letter in Murray archives from Palgrave to Murray (Hampstead, 27 July 
1842) in which he acknowledges the corrections made by a Mr Pentland. 


19. See, for example, the letter from Lord Stanhope to John Murray (Walmer, October 31, 1842) 
in the Murray archives: “Your other Handbooks I thought excellent in all respects; the present 
{one} I will frankly tell you seems to me very inferior to its predecessors. In the first place it 
is too long & diffuse. A Handbook comprising only one half of Italy—and the least interesting 








John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 585 


December 15 1845, indeed, he wrote to Palgrave relieving him of “all further trouble 
in editing it, beyond that of copying distinctly the communications which you have 
received.” He suggested that Palgrave, who had already begun work on a second 
edition,” relinquish the materials he had so far collected, while his “pecuniary 
claims upon the publication of the 2nd edition” remain “in tact.” Murray also 
offered to print Palgrave’s disavowal of responsibiity in the second edition, should 
he not be satisfied with it on completion. In the event, Palgrave sold the copyright 
of Northern Italy to Murray for £210 and the second edition carried the prefatory 
notice: “The present edition has been materially altered from the first. Many 
omissions have been made, and additions as numerous, chiefly of a practical 
character—useful to travellers on the spot—have been added. It is proper to add that 
Sir Francis Palgrave, the author of the original work, has had nothing to do with 
this edition, and is consequently in nowise responsible for any statements occurring 
in it.” 

Murray’s new editor for Northern Italy—“a safe & experienced hand for the 
task” as he described him in his letter to Palgrave—was his close friend, G. B. Maule 
(1811-1850), later to become Solicitor to the Treasury. Though the second edition 
was published in 1846, Ruskin’s corrections probably arrived too late to be included 
and were not used until the third, also edited by Maule,”! came out the following 
year. The text of this edition includes numerous sentences and longer passages 
enclosed within inverted commas and followed by the initial “R.” It was explained 
in the introductory section that these were “by the author of Modern Painters.”” 
The notes were re-printed in an appendix to the penultimate volume of the Library 
Edition of Ruskin’s Works, where it was stated that they had “hitherto escaped the 


half—should not have swelled into a bulk so disproportionate to the former volumes. Throughout 
the volume there is a fondness for trifling details.” 


20. See letter in Murray archives from Palgrave to Murray (n.p. n.d. [July 1842]): “ ... Ishould 
like to see the M.S. of any additional portions you may wish to add to my work — I hope before 
the second edition comes out, to have surveyed the whole of Tuscany — and I still wish it might 
be practicable for the present to append those portions to South Italy...” 


21. Another possibility is that the second edition was merely the first rebound with a new title 
page. It was certainly Murray’s practice to bind up only half the sets of sheets of a particular 
edition, the other half often being bound and issued as much as seven or eight years later. As 
John Gretton point out, “Sometimes the original title page would be retained with the original 
date; sometimes the same title page would be reprinted to bear a later date, or occasionally no 
date at all. On other occasions the original printed sheets would be put forward as a ‘new edition’ 
and the title page would be updated, possibly as a paste-down. This soi-disant ‘new edition’ may 
have been said to be ‘revised,’ or something of the sort ... Alternatively, there may have been 
minimal revision from readers’ letters, and with the help of other guide-books, the next edition 
was produced. Generally, there was a respectable degree of editing or revising, sometimes a total 
rewriting. It is at this point ... that the amount paid to the editor is the yardstick” (Lister, xxvii). 
I have unfortunately been unable to inspect a copy of the second edition. But the amount paid 
to Maule for “editing” this edition was £63, whereas he was only paid £21 for revising the third 
(Lister, 23). 


22. HTNI 1847, x. 


586 PAUL TUCKER 


attention of Ruskin’s editors and bibliographers. They are taken (with revision and 
curtailment) from a note-book, preserved at Brantwood, which Ruskin filled during 
his Italian journey in 1845.” 

The editors of the Library Edition, however, had evidently not seen the present 
letters, the actual form in which Murray and Maule received Ruskin’s contributions, 
otherwise they would have included in their appendix a large amount of additional 
material supplied in them which, though incorporated into the text of the guide, was 
not printed within inverted commas. It would also have forced them to reconsider 
the relation between Ruskin’s notes and the note-book they refer to, on whose 
complex textual history these letters throw new light. 

This “note-book”™ actually occupies two MS volumes (Bem. MS 5A & B). 
The text consists of Ruskin’s notes on paintings, sculptures and buildings studied 
in the cities of Genoa, Lucca, Pisa and Florence. The early part of the first volume 
is in Ruskin’s hand, while its remainder and the whole of the second are in that of 
his manservant John Hobbs. However, the notes are not simple fair-copy transcrip- 
tions of a rough draft, as this fact might suggest. There are many signs in the text 
itself of the notes having been extracted from a preliminary source, then revised and 
re-organized. These signs include the way in which the notes are grouped (by 
location, artist or genre), a structure which hardly ever coincides with the rather 
more haphazard sequence in which Ruskin actually studied the works referred to. 
Also, in the latter part of the text Ruskin frequently cites another note-book, now 
lost, to which he refers himself for more detailed information, both verbal and visual, 
suggesting that the surviving note-book is no more than a re-ordered selection of 
the notes which Ruskin actually made in the churches and galleries in front of the 
works. This explains the apparent incompleteness of the former, which not only 
omits half the places visited during the tour, but breaks off in the middle of a review 
of some works by Domenico Ghirlandaio in Florence expressly intended to introduce 
an account of his frescoes in S. Maria Novella. For clarity I propose to reserve the 
term ‘note-book’ for the lost preliminary MS and use Ruskin’s own term ‘résumé’ 
(Ril, 75) for the surviving one. 

That the Résumé comprises a series of revised extracts from the original note- 
book is confirmed by the letters to Murray. For though many of the notes supplied 
by Ruskin do echo those in the Résumé (if usually abbreviated), there are others on 
places and works which are not noticed in the Résumé. This implies that Ruskin was 
either working directly from the original notebook, or else from both notebook and 
Résumé. Indeed, he tells Murray in Letter 1 that the notes were originally made 


23. See vol. XXXVIII, 326 of the Library Edition of Ruskin’s Works, eds. E. T. Cook and 
Alexander Wedderburn(39 vols., London, 1903-12). This edition will henceforward be cited by 
volume and page number only, e.g. XXXVIII, 326. 


24. Now owned by the Education Trust Ltd, Ruskin Galleries, Bembridge, Isle of Wight 
(henceforward Bem. or Brant.). lam currently preparing a hypertextual edition of this MS together 
with Michele Gravina of the Centro di Ricerche Informatiche per i Beni Culturali, Scuola Normale 
Superiore, Pisa. 





John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 587 


in his “pocketbook,” not an appropriate term for the two rather large bound volumes 
of the Résumé. Moreover, he apologises for the delay in sending the notes, “but 
it requires time to disentangle them from other matter with which they are mixed,” 
and though this may refer to the work of condensing and de-personalising the Résumé 
notes, it may be that he was working from the unedited text of the notebook rather 
than the edited text of the Résumé, with its definite, if mutable, structure and 
marginal headings (a structure and lay-out reproduced in parts of these letters). The 
situation is complicated by the fact that the chronology of the compilation of the 
Résumé is far from clear. Only the entries for Genoa were written out by Ruskin 
himself, and he was engaged on this task while still in Genoa (Ri/, 44). His letters 
to his parents show that he was busy re-writing the entries for Lucca and Pisa 
throughout the month of May.” And if it was necessary not to fall behind in this 
task because “my notebook is full of sentences which will be incomprehensible to 
me in a week” (Ril, 82), then the work of editing the notes for Hobbs to transcribe 
into the Résumé probably continued, for as long as it lasted,”° more or less without 
a break.’ 

As for the content of the letters to Murray, like the Résumé they document 
Ruskin’s struggle during this tour to acquire definite knowledge of early Tuscan art, 


25. Lucca, 6 May: “.. .I have a great deal to write before going to bed” (RiJ, 53); Lucca, 6 
May (evening): “I am falling behind with my notes . . .” (RiJ, 55); Pisa, 14 May: “... am 
falling sadly behind with my notes.” (RiJ, 64); Pisa, 21 May: “ .. . & I haven’t half done the 
Camp. Sant. and I ought to make some notes of the cathedral architecture to compare with my 
Lucca study” (Ril, 71); Florence 30 May “I have not done anything here today, for I had to write 
up my Pisan notes . . .” (Ril, 88). 


26. That the incompletness of the Résumé is due to its having been abandoned at some point, 
rather than to a putative third volume of MS having been lost, is shown by the fact that the last 
page of text in Bem. MS SB is itself incomplete, and is followed by 10 blank leaves. However, 
Ruskin’s “picture-work” and architectural studies clearly continued in Bologna, Parma, Pavia, 
Milan, Verona, Padua and above all in Venice. A number of loose sheets with notes on Venetian 
paintings are said by Cook and Wedderburn to be among the Allen MSS of Modern Painters at 
the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York: descriptions of a number of works by Tintoretto in 
the Ducal Palace and in S. Maria dell’Orto are quoted in the Library Edition (IV, xxxvi, 304, 
308), while type-written copies of notes on pictures in the Accademia, the Tintorettos in the upper 
room of the Scuola diS. Rocco and Titian’s frescoes in the Scuola del Santo in Padua, presumably 
part of the same group, are inserted in the middle of the transcript of the Résumé made for Cook 
and Wedderburn and now in the Bodleian Library (Bod. MS Eng. Misc. c. 213, 91-96). Cook 
and Wedderburn state that the Venetian sheets in the Morgan “seem to have been torn out of the 
1845 note-book, which, as now preserved at Brantwood, ends at Florence” (IV, xxxvin). 
However, having not yet had the opportunity to examine these loose sheets of notes (nor indeed 
having had confirmation of their existence), Iam unable at this stage to comment on their relation 
to the two volumes of the Résumé. 


27. However, perhaps the expected opportunities to “arrange & digest what I have learned here” 
(Ril, 105-6) offered by his stay in the Alps in August were eaten up by other interests and 
demands on his time. This would explain how the last page of MS in the Résumé can make a 
comparison between Ghirlandaio’s frescoes in S. Maria Novella in Florence, which Ruskin saw 
in June, and Titian’s frescoes in the Scuola del Santo in Padua, which he saw in October, on the 
first leg of his journey home. 


588 PAUL TUCKER 


especially the painting of the 13th to the 15th centuries. This “whole half world of 
painting,” as he called it in a subsequent review of his career,” was virtually a terra 
incognita to the young art-critic, who, despite the claim to “familiar acquaintance 
with every important work of art from Antwerp to Naples” put forward in the 
Preface to the first volume of Modern Painters (II, 5-6), had in fact written from 
a knowledge of a limited number of 17th to 19th century landscapes in a handful 
of private and public collections in London. This explains the tone of letters written 
from Florence to his friend and mentor the painter George Richmond, to whom he 
confessed he was “grievously in want of a little guiding” and felt “very like a little 
child here”: “not but that in certain of my crotchets I am more confirmed than ever 
...but that I have got into such a glorious new world of religious art that I know not 
where to turn, and none of them here understand or care in the least about their finest 
things, so that one is entirely left to oneself—masterless. “”’ 

Ruskin was not of course entirely left to himself. In addition to Murray’s Hand- 
Book, the letters to his parents and above all the Résumé show that he brought with 
him to Italy a series of works for reference, including Vasari’s Vite, Lanzi’s Storia 
pittorica dell’Italia, Alexis-Francois Rio’s De la poésie chrétienne (1836) and 
Kugler’s Hand-Book of the History of Painting in Charles Eastlake’s English edition. 
But the fact that what was for him an unexplored region had already been penetrated 
by others was from Ruskin’s point of view less an aid than a hindrance to knowledge. 
For the most recent of these earlier explorers in particular, the new critical art 
historians from Germany (such as Karl von Rumohr, Ernst Forster and Kugler 
himself), had not so much mapped out the terrain as left it a waste of controversy, 
thus impeding the operation of the aesthetic judgement, because undermining the 
principle of authority on which it was based. “It is this kind of criticism,” Ruskin 
complained to Richond, “which has split Homer into a chorus of ballad-singers” 
(XXXVI, 52). The first letter to Murray gives an eloquent account of this dilemma, 
and, like the Résumé, the remainder reflect not only Ruskin’s efforts to orient himself 
mentally and physically within the “glorious new world of religious art,” but also 
to stave off the damage done by “the wrong-headed Germans.” Hence the impor- 
tance of completing Palgrave’s gaps of information and correcting his errors of 
observation, judgement—and taste. For here was a special sense (one probably not 
contemplated by the Times when it used the adjectives of the whole series) in which 
the Hand-Book might well prove itself “English and reliable.”* 


In editing the letters I have adopted the following procedures: 
— I have omitted the Roman numerals by which Ruskin numbered the letters. 
— Ruskin’s spelling has been maintained throughout and his punctuation as nearly 


28. Ruskin’s Letters from Venice 1851-52, ed. J.L. Bradley, New Haven, 1955, Letter 145 (15th 
February 1852), 179-81. 


29. Ruskin to George Richmond, Florence 28 June 1845 (XXXVI, 51); see also Ruskin to George 
Richmond, Florence 4 June 1845 (XXXVI, 46). 


30. Quoted in Lister, i. 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 589 


as possible. Ruskin used a variety of marks—dots, commas and dashes—to punctuate 
and separate his sentences, and it is often difficult to distinguish between these. I 
have always reproduced the marks as they appear, except when what looks like a 
stop occurs within a connected sentence. In such cases (never in front of a capital, 
even when this seems to be part of a title) I have silently replaced the stop with a 
comma. I have also very occasionally supplied commas and full stops within square 
brackets when this seemed to improve the intelligibility of the passage (I have not 
supplied full stops at the end of paragraphs or commas in simple series). 

— I have standardised lay-out byseparating and not indenting paragraphs. Marginal 
headings have been incorporated into the paragraph to which they refer. 

— Cancellations have been transcribed using a strikeout. 

— Editorial comments and conjectural readings (preceded by a question mark) are 
inserted within square brackets ([ ... ]). 

— Ruskin’s interlinear text (substitutions, additions etc.) is placed within scroll 
brackets ({ ... }) after the cancelled word or phrase it substitutes, or at the point 
marked by the caret (which is omitted). However, where a line of interlinear text 
occupies the whole width of the page, this has been treated as an ordinary line of 
text. 

— Angle brackets (< ... >) are used where a tear or similar damage has created 
a minor lacuna in the text and this can with reasonable certainty be reconstructed. 
— Marginal notes and marks in the text not in Ruskin’s hand are given in the 
footnotes. 

— With the exception of Letter II, all the letters have been folded so as to form 
their own envelopes. In all such cases the address is J. Murray Esq., Albemarle 
St. I have given the postmark on the letter in full and where necessary in an 
anglicised version. 


Universita degli Studi, Pisa 


[Florence, ?15 June 1845]*' 
My Dear Sir, 


Without doubt you have long expected to hear from me — and with good reason —I 
have delayed thus in the hope of being able to send you something you might make 
use of — a hope I have now lost. I wrote something before I got into Italy — 
and was about to prepare it & send it you — but I wished to see a few of the works 


31. Postmarked 26 June 1845, but this is the date on which John James Ruskin forwarded the 
letter to Murray (see Ril, 142n), as requested by his son ina letter from Florence of 15 June (Ril, 
115). 

32. Murray had asked Ruskin to review Sir Charles Bell’s The Anatomy and Philosophy of 
Expression as Connected with the Fine Arts, 3rd ed. (London, 1844) for the Quarterly Review. 


590 PAUL TUCKER 


mentioned by Sir Charles — and the seeing ef them has ¢ so far changed my feelings 
with respect to many that I but half remembered and has taught me so much respect- 
ing others that were new to me, that I am lost in the confusion of new examples — 
and though I have in no respect altered any of my more considered opinions — I 
see my way so much better to the proving & illustrating of them — and yet see so 
much that must yet be examined & arranged before I can do so completely, that these 
three weeks I have yet to stay here*® willbe would be far too short for me to study 
in, even if I were to confine my attention to this subject of expression alone, much 
more when other matters — for the sake of which I came to Italy, are pressing on 
me at the same time. I deeply regret having left you so long in suspense — but I 
tried over and over again to arrange an essay — and found it quite impossible until 
I could speak with security of Sir Charles’s examples — I now see hewever that this 
is not enough — and that Sir Charles has left all the greatest masters of expression 
— (Orcagna™ especially,) entirely unalluded to** — Among these masters I am 
now at work as hard as can be — but as almost all {their works} have been repainted 
in great part — and as your earthwormy German commentators keep constantly 
throwing up [?rep] coils of mud to hamper me withal — I am anything but fit — 
yet — to undertake a quarterly — I am obliged to make the most careful observations 
myself — for I find that conjecture is all that is to be had — on most of the paintings 
here — and like other people, I rather prefer my own conjectures to anybody elses. 
But the labour is in this way very great and very embarrassing — For if you can 
go to a work of art with trust — and abandon yourself to the impression of it — you 
may soon come to something like right conclusions respecting it — but if you have 
to test it and sample it — and disbelieve it all over — you make a touchstone of 
yourself — though a touch stone yet a stone still — itself not [?/enger] to be touched 
— and you get into critical and questioning — faithless & perverse humours — which 
unfit you entirely for judging of the little bit of precious metal that comes out of the 
fire at the end — Believe me it is with very great regret that I fail of meeting your 
wishes — but if I were to write now — I should merely lose my own time — for 
I should write nothing that you could with safety admit — If on any other occasion 
— with some less difficult subject I can be of service — I shall always be ready to 


33. Ruskin had been in Italy since the end of April, stopping in Genoa, Lucca, Pisa and Pistoia 
before arriving in Florence on 29 May. He left the city for Bologna on his way to Milan and the 
Alps on 7 July. 


34. The name (a corruption of ‘Arcagnolus’ or archangel) by which the painter Andrea di Cione 
(active between 1344 and 1368) is more commonly known. Ruskin is undoubtedly thinking of 
the frescoes of the Last Judgement, Hell and the Triumph of Death in the Camposanto, Pisa, at 
that time still attributed to Orcagna, but now increasingly accepted as by Buonamico di Martino, 
known as Buffalmacco. For accounts of Orcagna from the point of view of expression, see IV, 
159 and XII, 224-33. 


35. For additional reasons for his not writing the review see Ril, 115. 





John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 591 


do all in my power. fer-yeu"® 


One thing I may name to you at present as you desired me to do so — a few points 
in the Handbook which it would be as well to alter — in case of another edition soon 
coming out[.] I was not pleased with its account of the Campo Santo which seems 
to me to have been rather written from Lasinios plates which are vile*’ — than from 
the real thing** — Besides — the great use of a guidebook — the enabling you to 
find what you want, is — fer {to} a hurried traveller — altogether lost in yours — 
owing to its chronological arrangement. You ought to tell him where the pictures 
are? — and he can perfectly well — if he chooses — look at the earliest first. 
I took your book in my hand the first day — but to save time I had to give it up and 
buy the one ef {sold at} the place*’ — which takes the order of succession — not 
of time. 


Among the important errors of the descriptions are — first — its omission to note 
the remains of one of Giotto’s most beautiful subjects — Job feeding the poor, and 
feasting with his children — (upper series, the first of the three) — the outlines and 
heads — of which fem several remain, are of incomparable grace.*' Secondly its 


36. InJune 1847 the Quarterly Review published a review by Ruskin of Lord Lindsay’s Sketches 
of the History of Christian Art (London, 1847), and inMarch 1848 of Charles Eastlake’s Materials 
for a History of Oil-Painting (XII, 169-248, 251-302). 


37. The engraver Carlo Lasinio (1759-1838) was born in Treviso but had settled in Florence 
by 1780. In 1800 he was appointed Professor of Engraving at the Accademia di Belle Arti, but 
in 1806, through the intervention of Giovanni Rosini ( see below), he was ‘transferred’ to Pisa 
to begin work ona series of etchings reproducing the entire cycle of frescoes in the Camposanto. 
A year later he was appointed Conservatore or ‘Keeper’ of the Camposanto, as which he was 
responsible for gathering together in this building the many paintings and sculptures released by 
the suppression under the French of various local churches and convents, or otherwise scattered, 
more or less neglected, over the surrounding district. Ruskin is referring either to Carlo Lasinio’s 
etchings, published in the volume Pitture a fresco del Campo Santo di Pisa (Florence, 1812), 
or else to a similar volume issued twenty years later, in a more manageable format, by Carlo’s 
son Giovan Paolo (Le pitture a fresco del Camposanto di Pisa [Florence, 1832]). It is presumably 
of one of these two volumes that Ruskin complains in a letter from Pisa to his father (Ri/, 61). 
In his Résumé, Ruskin favourably compares the accuracy of his own copy (Ashmolean Museum, 
Oxford [Stand. 24]) of a portion of one of the Stories of Job with that of “Lasinio’s” engraving 
(Bem. MS_ 5B, f. 40). 


38. Possibly not an exaggeration. Palgrave’s description of the Cappella Brancacci frescoes (S. 
Maria del Carmine, Florence; HTNJ 1842, 535-36) systematically invert ‘left’ and ‘right’, 
suggesting he was working from engravings in which the reversal of the image in printing had 
not been allowed for by the engraver. 


39. HTNI 1847 (450-58) retains the chronological arrangement, but also provides a plan. 


40. Giovanni Rosini, Descrizione delle pitture del Campo Santo di Pisa coll’indicazione dei 
monumenti ivi raccolti (Pisa, 1816); a Sth ed. was published in 1845. 


41. The Stories of Job, then generally still attributed to Giotto, in accordance with the 2nd ed. 
(1568) of Vasari’s Vite, are now thought to be either by Taddeo Gaddi himself, as in the Ist ed. 
of Vasari (1550), or by a follower of Gaddi’s, in either case assisted by an unidentified and 


592 PAUL TUCKER 


speaking of the expression of the friends of Job in their visit to him. All the four 
heads are now entirely lost. Jobs is blackened over, & the frien<ds’> rubbed 
out. Thirdly. Its not noticing the singular absence of Elihu from the whole 
composition.*? Though he occurs in a predella picture of the same subject painted 
after Giotto’s death, in Sta Croce.“ 4"ly. Its not noticing the figure of Job in 
prayer receiving the news of his misfortunes, which yet remains on the right of 
Algarottis monument*® — 5“ It does not teH-yeu {mention} that the Buffalmacco 
series is half at one end of the building and half at the other,*° and this throws one 





possibly non-Tuscan artist (see Mario Bucci & Licia Bertolini, Camposanto monumentale di Pisa: 
affreschi e sinopie [Pisa, 1960], 94ff.; Andrew Ladis, Taddeo Gaddi: Critical Reappraisal and 
Catalogue Raisonnée [Columbia & London, 1982], 247-50; Enzo Carli, La pittura a Pisa dalle 
origini alla bella maniera [Pisa, 1994], 82-83). The attribution to Giotto was however already 
disputed in Ruskin’s time: Kugler (78) cites Férster’s assignment of the cycle on documentary 
grounds (since judged mistaken) to Francesco da Volterra. However, neither Ruskin nor Palgrave 
(HTNI 1842, 459) take this into consideration. (That Ruskin nevertheless knew of this re- 
attribution is shown by his reluctantly acknowledging Forster’s discovery in his review of 
Lindsay’s Sketches of the History of Christian Art [XII, 213].) The cycle, already in a poor state 
of repair in Vasari’s time, had suffered further damage in the intervening centuries. Paradoxically, 
these were among the frescoes least damaged in the second world war, when American artillery 
fire hit the roof of the building. However, by that stage only fragments were still legible. The 
cycle originally comprised six large panels ranged in two rows of three. Ruskin here refers to 
the panel on the extreme left in the upper row, Job Gives Alms; Banquet of Job; Soldiers of Job, 
now assigned to the unidentified second painter. Cf. HTNI 1842 (459[ ]; “Of the paintings 
executed by Giotto, which comprehended the principal subjects of the life of Job, two only 
remain”, emended in HTNI 1847 (451; “... life of Job, three in part remain”) and followed by 
“The first of three forming the upper series, the subject of which is Job feeding the Poor, and 
feasting with his Friends, has several outlines and heads which remain, and are very graceful.” 


42. Ruskin refers to the left-hand portion of the central panel in the lower row, usually known 
as The Patience of Job. HTNI 1847 (451) omits the comment on Job’s friends, “whose variety 
of costume and expression render the figures very remarkable” (HTNI 1842, 459). On the state 
of this panel cf. Ril, 62: “Giotto’s Job is all gone — two of his Friends’ faces and some servants 
are all that remain.” The friends and servants mentioned here are probably those in the (then) 
slghtly better preserved right-hand half of the panel, in which the friends are instructed by God 
to sacrifice. It was a portion of this half which Ruskin copied. 


43. Cf. HTNI 1847 (451): “‘It is singular that Elihu is absent from the whole composition.’ — 
R.” Elihu was the young son of Barachel the Buzite whose anger was aroused by Job’s justifying 
himself rather than God in his affliction, and who, seeing the three friends of Job, his “wise” 
seniors, unable to counter Job’s professions of innocence, berated him in their stead (Job. xxxii- 
XXXVIi). 


44. A Madonna and Child with Pope Gregory and Job (predella with episodes from the story 
of Job), then in the Cappella del Noviziato (see Bem. MS 5B, f.97). Picture not traced. 


45. Cf. HTNI 1847 (451): “To the right of Algarotti’s monument, there still remains the figure 
of Job receiving in prayer the news of his misfortunes.” The tomb of Francesco Algarotti (1712- 
64), connoisseur of the arts and sciences, had been erected against the wall on which the Job 
panels were painted. 


46. Ruskin is thinking of the Cosmography and Stories from Genesis, originally in the north-west 
corner of the Camposanto (now attributed to Piero di Puccio da Orvieto), and the Crucifixion, 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 593 


out. 6". Eve nursing the babe is gone.*’ 7". In St Ranieri’s call, he is not begin- 
ning to play — but stopping — and the maidens are not preparing to dance — but 
dancing** — and that with exquisite grace. (Vide Vasari — fa ballar.*’) I have been 
up all around on a level with these upper frescos — so that I know them well. A 
similar group occurs — small —in Memmis frescos in Santa Maria Novella.” 
Again, [?the] 5. 6 & 7. of your enumeration are in one picture, and it only confuses 


Resurrection, Disbelief of St Thomas and Ascension, originally in the south-east corner (of which 
the first is widely attributed to Francesco Traini [documented 1321-1363] and the others to the 
same artist [?Buffalmacco] who painted the adjacent Triumph of Death, Last Judgement and Hell 
and Lives of the Anchorites). 


47. In describing the part of the Creation (Piero di Puccio da Orvieto) depicting the “state of 
labour” consequent upon the Fall, Palgrave had remarked , “Eve nursing her babe has great 
simplicity and beauty” (HTNI 1842, 460). This was omitted in the third edition. 


48. Ruskin here draws not on the Résumé but on his letters to his parents. He had given a first 
account of the fresco of Pisa’s patron saint’s conversion, from the portion of the S. Ranieri cycle 
then ascribed to the artist called by Vasari ‘Simon Memmi’ (Simone Martini), but now known 
to be by the Florentine Andrea di Bonaiuto (active 1343-77), ina letter of 18 May (Ril, 68): “He 
is a youth preparing to play on a lute to a circle of Florentine maidens, just giving each other 
their hands to dance, and there passes by a palmer, and one of the maidens lifting her hand in 
jest says to St Ranieri - Wilt thou not follow the angel? And St Ranieri accepts the sign and 
follows him.” This is a slightly confused version of the traditional story of the saint’s conversion 
(the question.was asked in earnest, by a kinswoman of Ranieri’s rather than by one of the 
maidens), which Ruskin evidently got from HTN 1842 (460). The fresco was high on the wall 
and, as he intimates to Murray, Ruskin had scaffolding put up so he could examine it properly. 
After doing so, and possibly comparing Palgrave’s with local accounts, he was able to correct 
his description in a letter of 22 May: “The circle of Florentine girls are not preparing to dance, 
but dancing, though the motion is so ‘still & quiet’ that from below it is not felt - but such 
dancing” (Ril, 72). Cf. HTNI 1847 (452): “He is represented as leaving off playing, while the 
gay assemblage of damsels are still dancing.” Ruskin copied the scene in pencil and watercolour 
(Bem. 1440). The attribution to ‘Simon Memmi’ had been disputed by Kugler (77), who assigned 
them to “a less gifted but clever mechanical artist, who painted some time between 1360 and 
1370.” Once more, this is ignored by both Ruskin and Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 460). Nor does 
HTNI 1847 mention that the previous year a document had been published showing one “Andrea 
da Firenze” to have received payment for some of the S. Ranieri frescoes in 1378 (Camposanto 
monumentale, 69). The first to suggest that this “Andrea” was in fact Andrea di Bonaiuto was 
Gaetano Milanesi in his edition (Firenze, 1878-85) of Vasari. His hypothesis was confirmed by 
the discovery in 1916 (I. Taurisano, ‘I! Capitolo di S. Maria Novella in Firenze,’ // Rosario - 
Memorie Domenicane, Il, II], XXXIII, 217-30) of adocument which identified this artist as the 
painter of frescoes in the Spanish Chapel (S. Maria Novella) in Florence, which J. A. Crowe 
and G. B. Cavalcaselle (A History of Painting in Italy, II, eds. L. Douglas & S. Arthur Strong 
[London 1903], 145) had assigned to the Andrea employed at Pisa on the S. Ranieri cycle. 


49. Vasari, ‘Vita di Simon Sanese’: “nella prima [storia], quando giovanetto, sonando il salterio, 
fa ballar alcune fanciulle bellissime” [in the first episode, where he appears as a young man 
playing the psaltery for some beautiful girls to dance to]” (I, 172). The passage is also quoted 
in Ruskin’s second letter to his father. 


50. The group of dancing girls in the fresco, also by Andrea di Bonaiuto, of the Church Militant 
and the Triumph of the Dominican Order in the Spanish Chapel, S. Maria Novella in Florence. 
The comparison is not made in the Résumé. 


594 PAUL TUCKER 


one to have them put separate.*' Again, the portly host of Antonio Veneziano is 
one of the most graceful figures on the walls — his face is blackened — and can no 
longer be judged of.” Lastly, the [?repaintings] of Solazzino on Orcagna’s inferno 
- are only worthy of Bartholomew fair** — they are disgusting brutal and childish 
in the last degree, and so is the figure of Lucifer, which hewever {moreover} is less 
Dantesque than the one in Santa Maria Novella, for he holds the souls not in his 
mouth. but in his claws — while curiously enough — in fresees {mosaics} which 
may be earlier than Dante himself — those of the Florentine Baptistery — the real 
Lucifer of Dante occurs with the soul che ha maggior pena, half in his mouth, 
perhaps Dante wrote from this, & eenseerated {fixed} the type — giving names to 
the three souls. Your writer however is a man of good taste and judgment — or 
at least of fair average taste — but he has not had time at the Campo Santo. I was 
a fortnight on ladders & frames, at work on their frescos. 


I trust that you will not be put to inconvenience by the default on my part — and 
that I shall yet be able to be of use to you when I have more experience — Commend 
me to Mr Lockhart®* — & believe me faithfully Yours 


JRuskin. 


51. Nos. 5, 6 & 7 in HTNI 1842 (461) correspond to separate portions of the panel depicting 
episodes of Ranieri’s pilgrimage to the Holy Land. The arrangement was not altered in HTNI 
1847. 


52. The reference is to a panel by Antonio Veneziano in the S. Ranieri cycle showing the saint’s 
return from the Holy Land and the miracle by which he exposed a fraudulent innkeeper. In HTNIJ 
(1842), 461 the “portly host” stands “aghast, the very personification of terror and surprise.” 
This was dropped from the third edition. 


53.) CfXIl,228. 


54. Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 462) had noted that the lower portions of the fresco of the Hell, then 
attributed to Andrea Orcagna (Andrea di Cione) and his brother Nardo (short for Leonardo, not 
as was then thought for Bernardo) and now widely, though not quite unanimously, considered 
by Buffalmacco, had been repainted by ‘Solazzano’ (Giuliano di Giovanni de’ Castellani da 
Montelupo, known as ‘il Sollazzino’ [1470-1543]) in 1530. Palgrave also thought the gigantic 
figure of Lucifer at the centre “unquestionably suggested by Dante,” who in Inferno XXXIV 
portrays the devil as a three-headed giant immersed up to his chest in a lake of ice and holding 
one of the arch-traitors, Brutus, Cassius and Judas in each of his mouths. Of the three, the last 
suffers the most (“ha maggior pena”), because his head is trapped in the devil’s mouth, while 
the others’ are free. The fresco in S. Maria Novella in Florence is another Hell, in the Cappella 
Strozzi, by Nardo di Cione (1350-c. 1357), then ascribed to both Nardo and Andrea. The mosaics 
on the ceiling of the Florence Baptistery were begun in 1225. HTNI 1847 (454) drops the reference 
to Dante and comments, “Whatever it may have once been, it is now disgusting, vulgar, and 
childish in the last degree.” 


55. John Gibson Lockhart (1825-53), Scottish critic, novelist and biographer of Walter Scott, 
was editor of the Quarterly Review from 1825 to 1853. 


eee 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 595 


II 
=| 


[n.p., n.d. 
My Dear Sir, 


I shall send you from time to time — as I have opportunity — such notes of deficien- 
cies in the handbook as I have made in my own pocketbook — I am very sorry I 
cannot send you them all at once — but it requires time to disentangle them from 
other matter with which they are mixed. 


CARRARA. The Duomo” of this village is the only building I saw in Italy which 
corresponds in age & style with that of Monza. These two buildings afford examples 
of a peculiar & most graceful Gothic which requires careful illustration, — (totally 
different from the corrupt & hybrid styles of Como & the Certosa of Pavia) — 
Fragments of similar style occur at Sarz Sarzana — but the cathedral of Carrara is 
decidedly the most perfect gem of its kind. I prefer it to Monza. The book does 
not mention this — it would be well to obtain definite information respecting these 
two cathedrals — that of Monza is too lightly noticed at p. 145. 


The passage about the “peaks of white marble” is nonsense. They are very noble 
peaks — and are seen effectively from Pisa — Lucca & Florence — but they are of 
a quiet warm grey colour — & the quarries are mere chips on their sides.” 


56. Postmarked 24 December 1845. 


57. Inthe margin is the query, “Is this what is mentioned as ‘[illegible] principal church’?” (Like 
other marginal notes quoted below, this is in another hand, presumably that of the Hand-Book’s 
new editor Maule.) The “principal church” is indeed how the Duomo is described in HTNI 1842 
(411). 


58. This note, from “corresponds in age & style” to “I prefer it to Monza”, minus the reference 
to Como and Pavia, is reproduced, very slightly revised, in HTNI 1847 (406). There are no notes 
on Carrara, Sarzana or Monza in the Résumé. But the duomo of Carrara and an unnamed 
“church” at Sarzana are mentioned in a letter to Ruskin’s father (Ri, 49), where the former is 
described as “a perfect gem of Italian Gothic, covered with 12th century sculpture of the most 
glorious richness and interest”. The Duomo was begun in the 11th century. The “12th century 
sculpture” may be that decorating the west and south doors, variously dated between the beginning 
and the middle of the century. The “Gothic” upper portion of the church’s fagade dates from 
around 1350. 


59. HTNI 1842, 411: “The peaks of white marble are seen shining most brilliantly from many 
parts of the environs ...” Cf. HTNI 1847 (406): “The peaks of the mountains, out of whose sides 
the white marble is quarried, are of a beautiful warm grey colour, and are visible at a great 
distance all round.” On his previous visit to the area in 1840 Ruskin had noted in his diary that 
the mountains were “marble in fact but not in appearance” and that the quarries showed “white 
in different hollows on the hills ... like mere chips out of the enormous mass of calcareous rock 


_ (TS, Bodleian Library, Oxford, MS Misc. c. 210, 50). The unexpected ruggedness and dull 


colour of the mountains had been the germ for a poem, ‘The Hills of Carrara’, published in the 


_ Friendship’s Offering for 1842. That the mountains of Carrara were visible from Florence (a claim 


he repeats elsewhere) is a piece of nonsense of Ruskin’s own. 


596 PAUL TUCKER 


LUCCA. If your new editor be a tolerable architect — he will I doubt not — have 
examined the inlaid work of San Michele & the duomo — but if not, he should note 
that it in both represents hunting pieces — lions — wild boars — wolves — foxes 
— & deer — pursued by hounds, & men with a lance & horn, constantly repeated. 
(Has this any connection with the Domini canes of the Spanish Chapel.) In their rich 
designs these two fronts are altogether unique,” for the mosaics of the Pisan Duomo 
are merely geometrical figures®' founded on the circle & very rude, — and though 
the Lucca architecture is inferior in its symmetry — it is incomparably richer & more 
interesting in details. 


He should note the singular inequality of the three arches of the front — measuring 
from column to column. 


Braccia’s. Palms. 
North arch” 10) =~, 5 
Middle. i 4, 
Southern. 6. teeta 48 


In the wall,“ north vide is inscribed. Hoc opus cepit fieri. ((transcription of this 
phrase in contracted form]) ab . . x x x et Aldebrando. operariis. 1223.° 


In the interior of Cathedral. Ist. I could find no monument to Paul Guinigi.® That 


60. HTNI 1842 does not mention the intaglio work in white and green marble on the facades 
of these churches, while HTNI 1847 (409) revises these two sentences (omitting the query re. 
the etymology of ‘Dominican’ [‘hounds of God’] and the symbolic inclusion of black and white 
dogs in Andrea di Bonaiuto’s allegory of the Church Militant in S. Maria Novella, Florence) and 
incorporates them into its account of the Duomo. Palgrave’s brief description of San Michele is 
replaced by a long passage from Henry Gally Knight’s The Ecclesiastical Architecture of Italy 
(London, 1842). Again Ruskin’s source for this note is not so much the Résumé as his letters 
to his parents, which include a detailed description of the marble tarsia work on the front of San 
Michele (RiJ, 54). He would also have referred to his careful drawing of part of this facade 
(Ashmolean Museum, Oxford [Ed. 83]), explicitly cited in the Résumé asa record of its “general 
architecture” (Bem. MS 5B, ff. 4-5). 


61. Cf. Bem. MS 5B, f. 10. 

62. Note in the margin: “What are the English equivalents?” 

63. This information was not included in HTNI 1847. 

64. In the margin: “What of? Atrium, facade, or body of church?” 

65. The inscription, set into the wall to the right of the central door in the atrium, reads “HOC 
OP[US] CEP[IT] FIERI A BELENATO ET / ALDIBRA[N]DO OP[ERJARIIS A[NNO] 


D[OMINI]. MCCXXXIII” (This [atrium] was begun under the clerks of works Belenato and 
Alibrando in 1233). 


66. Cf. HTNI 1842, 416: “Tomb of Paolo Guinigi, Signore of Lucca, and of Ilaria di Caretto 
his wife, erected soon after the death of the latter.” There is no monument to Paolo Guinigi in 
the Duomo, as might be expected, given that he was deposed and ousted from Lucca in 1429 
and, as Vasari reports, the Guinigi family chapel, located in the south transept and the original 





SSE” a eeeY 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 597 


to Ilaria di Caretto is a glorious work, of Jacopo della Quercia — excepting the 
sarcophagus, which is in bad taste — The couched figure is beyond praise — The 
head-dress singular — a turban like fillet round the brow — divided by bands of stars 
— the same head dress in every respect occurs in a picture of Gentile Bellini in the 
collection of professor Rosini at Pisa.°’ 


2. The monuments of Pietro da Noceto and all Civitali’s work, are over-praised.® 


site of Ilaria del Carretto’s tomb (see below), was made over to the city. The reference to the 
tomb of Paolo Guinigi was removed in HTNI 1847. 


67. The passage from “The couched figure ... Professor Rosini, at Pisa,” somewhat revised and 
toned down, was inserted in HTNI 1847 (410) within inverted commas and followed by the initial 
“R.”. The tomb of Ilaria del Carretto, one of the major ‘discoveries’ of this stay in Lucca, is 
extensively and lovingly described in a letter to Ruskin’s father (Ri/, 55), and further commented 
upon in the Résumé. Ilaria was the second wife of Paolo Guinigi and died in 1405. The original 
form of the tomb, which in its present state comprises a life-size effigy placed on top of a 
sarcophagus, is a matter of critical controversy, as is the related question of whether Jacopo della 
Quercia was reponsible for effigy and sarcophagus, with the reliefs of putti decorating its two 
long sides. It was suggested by Roberto Longhi that the tomb was originally set into the floor, 
probably in the Guinigi family chapel. When Vasari saw it it was located at the entrance to the 
sacristy (where it had probably been moved after Paolo Guinigi’s fall from power), and included 
the sarcophagus with the putti (‘Vita di Jacopo della Quercia’ [I, 249-50]). Longhi, however, 
thought only one of the two reliefs of putti by Jacopo himself. In 1760 the tomb was moved to 
the Garbesi chapel, and in 1842 to the north transept. By this time the sarcophagus had lost one 
long and one short side, and when Ruskin saw it, the tomb was placed against the north wall in 
the transept. The missing sides were subsequently found and restored to the tomb, which was 
then moved into the centre of the transept, where it is still located. I have been unable to identify 
the picture in Giovanni Rosini’s collection: the catalogue of the collection printed in the 1882 
when part of the collection came up for sale does not include any paintings by ‘Gentile Bellini’; 
nor does Rosini cite any Gentile Bellinis in his own collection in his Storia della pittura italiana. 
Rosini (1766-1855) combined the roles of university professor (chair of “Eloquence”), novelist, 
art-historian and printer-publisher and was for many years a key figure in Pisan intellectual 
society. Ruskin made Rosini’s acquaintance while working in the Camposanto. But if it is true, 
as the philologist Tommaseo maliciously remarked, that to visit Pisa without meeting Rosini was 
like having been born in Dalmatia without ever having been to Ragusa (quoted in Roberto Pertici, 
‘Uomini e cose dell’editoria pisana del primo Ottocento,’ in Una citta tra provincia e mutamento 
[Pisa, 1985], 61), this hardly seems surprising. Ruskin described him as “a celebrated man who 
has written books by wholesale” (RiJ, 70), but seems to have been glad of the Professor’s 
attentions and readiness to show him his pictures. His letters record several visits to, and 
conversations with, Rosini, as well as the professor’s present to him of a tracing from a picture 
by “Giotto” (in the Résumé [Bem. MS 5B, f. 46] Ruskin mentions another tracing given him 
by Rosini, from a ‘Cimabue’ [a frontal with the figure of St Cecilia and episodes from her life 
by the ‘Maestro della S. Cecilia’] in the Uffizi). In the ‘Epilogue’ to the 1883 edition of Modern 
Painters II, Ruskin recalls his efforts to persuade Rosini of the genius of Turner, and of Rosini’s 
unenlightened respose: “‘Yes - yes. I see, - € un imitatore di Salvatore, - we have plenty such’” 
(IV, 351). 


68. The remark evidently prompted the omission in HTN/ 1847 of a lengthy and effusive account 
of the sculptor Matteo Civitali (1436-1501) and the tomb of Pietro da Noceto (1472) in the Duomo 
(HTNI, 1842 [415]). This was replaced (HTNI 1847, 410) by the dry, scholarly comment: 


598 PAUL TUCKER 


Giovanni da Bologna’s altar of liberty is good for nothing — much less like M. 
Angelo. (vide p. 416.)” 


3. The Volto Santo is assuredly not Byzantine. I saw the image itself, and the face 
is fine.” 


4. The p Fra Bartolomeo in this cathedral is unquestionably the finest & most 
elevated work of the master extant. Vide Rio.” 

In the front of St Michele — the quadruplicate shafts with serpentine bands are the 
same as those which form the angles of the balustrade of St Marks at Venice.” 


“Cicognara thought this [the tomb of Pietro da Noceto], perhaps, the finest work of the kind in 
the 15th century.” 


69. Altar by Giambologna and ?Montorsoli or ?Francavilla (1577-79) in the Cappella della 
Liberta, with figures of the Risen Christ and Sts Peter and Paulinus. Note in the margin: “This 
is to [sic] much at variance with general opinion to be inserted.” However, Palgrave’s favourable 
comparison of the altarpiece to Michelangelo (“In this production, the artist exhibits a degree 
of dignity and force, fully rivalling Michael Angelo”: HTNI 1842, 416) was omitted from HTNI 
1847 (410). 


70. The Volto Santo (‘Holy Countenance’) is the name of a large wooden crucifix venerated at 
Lucca since the early middle ages and kept in the cathedral. It was traditionally believed to have 
been carved by Nicodemus and miraculously transported to Luni, on the coast north-west of 
Lucca, in the 8th century. It is generally agreed that the crucifix cannot be a work of this time, 
but scholars have widely differed in their dating of it, some proposing the 11th, some the 12th 
and some even the 13th century. Others believe it to be a copy of an earlier crucifix, possibly 
Syrian. Palgrave had written: “whether it be the production of Byzantine artists, is a contested 
point” (HTNI 1842, 415). This phrase remained in the third edition but was preceded by the 
sentence, “‘The face of the original is fine.” — R.” The term ‘original’ is explained by the fact 
that Palgrave had stated that the Volto Santo was only shown on certain feast-days, while “a fac- 
simile copy is always exposed to view”. While it was until quite recently the case that the Volto 
Santo was normally veiled and only exposed on special feast-days, I have found no mention of 
a copy being displayed the rest of the time. Ruskin himself, in the letter to his father in which 
he congratulates on arriving in Lucca on one of those feast-days [May 3], and describes the image 
(“the countenance, as far as I could see it, by the candlelight, is exceedingly fine”), does not 
mention any copy (Ril, 50). 


71. Fra Bartolomeo, Madonna and Child with Sts Stephen and John the Baptist, signed and dated 
1509. Ruskin had planned his stay in Lucca specifically to study the three major Fra Bartolomeos 
there (Ril, 45): this in the cathedral, the Madonna della Misericordia and God the Father with 
Sts Mary Magdalene and Catherine of Siena (the latter two then in the church of San Romano 
and now in Villa Guinigi). All three are subjected to minute critical scrutiny in the Résumé (Bem. 
MS 5B ff. 8, 10-16). In his De la poésie chrétienne (1836), a work on early Italian painting which 
Ruskin had studied in preparation for his tour and to which he often refers in the Résumé, Alexis- 
Francois Rio had reserved special praise for the painting in the Duomo: “This is, of all his works, 
the most worthy to be compared with the chefs d’ceuvre of Raphael, both for grandeur of the 
forms and for grace and purity of outline, not to speak of the colouring, which might easily sustain 
comparison with the finest works of the Lombard school” (The Poetry of Christian Art [Eng. tr., 
London 1854], 286). 


72. Palgrave had pointed these out in his description of the church (HTNI 1842, 417). Ruskin’s 
erudite comparison with St Mark’s did not make its way into the third edition (see the marginal 





John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 599 


The two rose windows of this front are exquisite, though one has been dashed broken 
and hidden by the French — who have put up a shield of the coach panel pattern 
with Libertas thereupon, in front of it. The Italians have never removed it.” 


San Romano. My opinion of the Madonna della Misericordia would very much 
differ from your writers — but it is better to express none — & merely the name 
the picture, referring to Vasari’* — which should be done also with respect to the 
Tavola di Marmo he so highly praises of Jacopo’s in San Frediano. He over praises 
it, but it is nevertheless very fine[.] Vasari is wrong in his saints names.” 


Note especially 


— There is a most interesting little Gothic chapel behind the cathedral, Santa Maria 
della Rosa, I think 13" century, but you ought to get some et good information about 


note: “Too minute remark for Handbook”). 


73. Palgrave had not mentioned either window, nor do they feature in the account by Gally 
Knight quoted in HTNI 1847 (411). Ruskin had reported the outrage committed by the French 
(and the apathy of the Lucchesi) in a letter to his father (RiJ, 56). The rose thus obscured was 
that in the lunette over the central door. The shield, later removed, may be seen in Ruskin’s 
daguerreotype of the fagade, probably made in 1846 (Paolo Costantini & Italo Zannier, / 
dagherrotipi di John Ruskin [Florence/Venice, 1986], 110). 


74. Palgrave had written of the Madonna: “it was presented by the noble family of Montecanini 
[Montecatini], who, in finely varied groups, mostly in attitudes of prayer, fill the foreground ... 
the colouring is exceedingly mellow and harmonious, such as cannot be forgotten. The portraits 
are most characteristic; and the perspective of the figures, an element indispensable for illusion, 
and so generally neglected, is observed with the greatest skill.” He also mentioned that like the 
artist’s God the Father with Sts Mary Magdalene and Catherine of Siena, the Madonna della 
Misericordia was “specially noted by Vasari” (HTNI 1842, 417). A comparison with the Résumé 
shows that Ruskin’s opinion of the painting was indeed widely divergent from Palgrave’s: he 
thought it a complete failure, badly planned and in parts badly drawn, defective in light and shade 
and crude in colour. However, despite its faults he considered the picture of value (Bem. MS 
5B, ff. 10-11). This may explain the otherwise unusual reticence of his remarks here. HTNIJ 1847 
(413) omits Palgrave’s appreciative comments on colouring, portraits and perspective, as well 
as his estimate of it as “the best picture in Lucca.” 


75. The marble altarpiece carved by Jacopo della Quercia, together with Giovanni da Imola and 
others, in the Cappella Trenta, is signed and dated 1422. It represents the Madonna and Child 
with Sts Ursula, Lawrence, Jerome and Richard the King. It also has a predella with a Pieta , 
2 half-length figures of Sts Ursula and Catherine, and episodes from the lives of Sts Ursula, 
Lawrence andJerome in bas relief. The right hand corner of the altarpiece has been damaged, 
and the half-length St Ursula and the relief with an episode from her life are probably 17th century 
copies (Charles Seymour Jr., Jacopo della Quercia, Sculptor [New Haven & London, 1973]). 
Vasari, who described it as a “marble panel, with the Virgin holding the Child in her arms, St 
Sebastian, St Lucy, St Jerome and St Sigismondo,” praised the grace and skill of Jacopo’s 
execution, particularly with regard to the perspective of the figures (I, 250-51). HTNJ 1842 (418) 
simply refers to the altarpiece as having “good sculptures by Jacopo della Quercia, 1422. Finely 
and boldly executed.” HTNI 1847 (413) further gives the subject (without naming the saints, 
however) and notes “highly praised by Vasari.” Neither the altarpiece nor the two tombs in the 
chapel, also by Jacopo della Quercia, are mentioned in the Résumé or in Ruskin’s letters. 


600 PAUL TUCKER 


it — for it is unique — and of infinite elegance.” 


I think these are the chief points noticed about Lucca, requiring correction. I will 
go on to Pisa tomorrow if I have time — Yours ever very truly. 


JRuskin. 


Il 
[n.p., n.d.] 


My dear Sir, 


I ought to have mentioned that the monument of Ilaria di Caretto is not in the sacristy 
— but in the north transept of Lucca cathedral.” 


PISA.”* I suppose your present editor will not be likely to leave the Academy, 
& the church of San Francesco unnoticed” — but respecting the first, (delle belle 
arti) 331 may as well mention that it contains one exquisite Pinturicchio*® — (four 


76. The chapel of S. Maria della Rosa was built in 1309, on the site of an oratory dedicated to 
St Paul, to house a miraculous image of the Virgin. It was enlarged to its present size in 1333. 
It is not mentioned in either edition of the guide. Nor is it noticed in the Résumé. The present 
note is evidence, however, that this “diminutive” Gothic chapel, later of much importance for 
Ruskin (and often paired by him with S. Maria della Spina in Pisa), had already caught his eye 
in 1845. In 1866 he commissioned his pupil John Wharlton Bunney to make a drawing of the 
chapel (Ashmolean Museum, Oxford [Ref. 81]; see Jeanne Clegg and Paul Tucker, Ruskin and 
Tuscany, Sheffield & London, 1993, cat. 84). 


77. Palgrave had not specified the location of the tomb. Ruskin may simply be reminding Murray 
that the tomb was no longer where Vasari had said it was (see above). 


78. All the notes in this letter have been crossed through vertically in pen, except for the 
measurements of the Duomo in Pisa. 


79. Palgrave had in fact noticed the Accademia (HTNI 1842, 469), though not the church and 
convent of San Francesco. The Accademia di Belle Arti had been founded in 1812, giving official 
status to a school of drawing offering free instruction which had been set up by Carlo Lasinio 
in 1807. The Accademia subsequently comprised classes in ornament (‘ornato’) and figure-drawing 
(‘modello’), architecture and engraving, and functioned until 1871. In 1845 itwas housed in Borgo 
Largo, 1264. A catalogue of the art-works contained in the Accademia (many of them transferred 
there by him from the Camposanto) was drawn up by Carlo Lasinio in 1828 and slightly revised 
in 1832 and 1836 (see Ernesto Lasinio, // Camposanto e l’Accademia di Belle Arti di Pisa dal 
1806 al 1838 nelle memorie e nelle carte di Carlo Lasinio [Pisa, 1923]). A further catalogue was 
published by Bartolomeo Polloni (Catalogo delle opere di pittura ed altri oggetti riuniti nell’T. 
e R. Accademia di Belle Arti di Pisa [Pisa, 1837]). 


80. Picture not traced. No. CXXX in Polloni’s catalogue is stated to be attributed by some to 
Ridolfo del Ghirlandaio, but labelled ‘Pinturicchio’. However, its subject (“Three Holy Virgins”) 
does not correspond to Ruskin’s description. (This is probably the same work as No. 24 in 
Lasinio’s catalogue [“Sts Lucy, Agnes and Barbara”], attributed to “one of the Ghirlandaios”: 
in the MS of the 1836 revision Lasinio wrote and cancelled the name of Pinturicchio below this 
entry [see Ernesto Lasinio, 61].) Another candidate might be a small unattributed “15th century” 
panel with the figures of St Bernard of Clairvaux and St Scholastica against a landscape 





John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 601 


figures with flat landscape behind—) because the works of this master are rare in 
north Italy, & that this same picture is hung up over a door out of the way — while 
the master & his pupils copy Canova & David. It possesses also a very valuable 
Filippo Lippi, Madonna, St Matthew, St James the great, & St Augustine®’ — the 
principal figure poor — but the rest noble. The collection is otherwise of some 
interest as exhibiting the relation which Giunta” bore to Giotto — several works 
of the former are of higher merit than is usually attributed to them.” 


Church of San Francesco. Your editor will not I suppose — forget the cloisters 
of this church, which from the richness of the felig foliage within their enclosure” 
— and the grace of their columns — struck me as about the most perfect thing of 
the kind I saw in Italy — nor their chapter hall with its exq exquisite frescos by 


background (Polloni, No. CXXXXII), also mentioned by R. Grassi, in his Descrizione storica 
e artistica di Pisa e de’ suoi contorni (Pisa, 1837; II, 210), as hanging over the entrance to the 
Cast Room. However, this would have been in the previous building occupied by the Accademia 
(the Palazzo Pretorio), and once more the subject does not match Ruskin’s description (in Bellini- 
Pietri’s catalogue [Pisa, 1906, 145] of the collection of the Museo Civico, later the Museo di S. 
Matteo, the background is described as a grotto with holes showing the sea beyond). 


81. The Madonna and Child with Two Angels, Sts Jerome, John the Evangelist, John the Baptist 
and Augustine and Donor (predella with Adoration of the Magi and Massacre of the Innocents) 
now in the Museo di S. Matteo, Pisa. In their History of Painting in Italy (IV, eds. L. Douglas 
& G. De Nicola [London 1911]) Crowe and Cavalcaselle cite the painting twice, once as the work 
of an unnamed “painter of the close of the fifteenth and rise of the sixteenth century” (177) and 
once (300) as that of Raffaello Carli (known as ‘Raffaellino del Garbo’; Florence, c. 1470 - 1524). 
The attribution to Raffaelino was generally accepted until quite recently, when Massimo Ferretti 
(‘Pisa 1493: Inizi di Niccold pittore’ in Scritti di storia dell’arte in onore di Federico Zeri [Milano, 
1984], I, 249-62) re-attributed the painting on documentary and stylistic grounds to the Pisan 
painter Niccold dell’ Abrugia (1470-1538). It was commissioned in 1493 by Margherita del Pitta, 
the donor portrayed, a nun from the convent of San Matteo, which now houses the museum. It 
is No. 15 in Lasinio’s 1828 catalogue (ina MS version of which it is attributed to an “Unidentified 
artist of the end of the 15th century”, though Lasinio detects the style of “Lippi”; see Ernesto 
Lasinio, 58 & n.); and No. XLIV in Polloni’s, where it is described as a fine work in “the style 
of Lippi.” A Madonna and Child with Saints by “Fra Filippo Lippi” is particularly mentioned 
in the Nuova guida di Pisa [1845], 240. The painting is engraved in Rosini’s Storia della pittura 
italiana esposta coi monumenti (2nd ed.[Pisa, 1848-52], IV, 15), where it is pointed out that the 
panel “has until now been mistaken for a work of the Florentine school” and an attribution to 
the Milanese painter Ambrogio Borgognone is advanced (IV, 21). 


82. Giunta di Capitinio (documented 1236-1254, died before 1257). Among the works then in 
the Accademia and attributed to Giunta were a Frontal with Christ the Redeemer, the Madonna 
and Sts John the Baptist, Silvestro and Catherine of Alexandria, possibly by Meliore (see Carli, 
La pittura a Pisa, 20), now in the Museo di S. Matteo (Polloni, No. CLX; engraved in Rosini, 
Storia della pittura italiana (2nd. ed. [1848-52], I, 83). 

83. The whole paragraph, from “an exquisite Pinturicchio ...,” slightly revised and omitting the 
jibe at the art-master’s neo-classical bias, was inserted in HTNI 1847 (459) within inverted commas 
and initialled “R.”. 


84. The phrase “foliage within their enclosure” has been underlined in pencil. Note in the margin: 
“rather ambiguous”. 


602 PAUL TUCKER 


Niccola di Pietro — the most important in Pisa after the campo santo. He ought also 
to notice the peculiar form of the aisleless Franciscan churches — as exhibited here 
— and at S. Francesco of Pistoja. 


Sta-Caterina- [blank] note also that on the roof of the choir there are some interest- 
ing frescoes — probably Taddeo Gaddi.*° 


Sta Caterina.*° Your account of it would be somewhat better arranged thus — after 
the passage respecting St T. Aquinas, p. 473.°’ 


On the left hand side of the door at the bottom of the nave, is the monument of 
Simone Saltarelli,** &c — It is composed of an altar tomb with basreliefs — canopy 
above supported by ill shaped arches — and by marble draperies which angels draw 
back — exhibiting the effigy below, hardly to be seen in the darkness, but fine, 
though cut on ene—side {the outside} only, for effect. Above this rises a tall, 
disproportional & inelegant tabernacle, under which is a villainous copy of the 
Madonna of Nino in Sta M. della Spina. The basreliefs below have character & 
expression, but the rest is of rude & clumsy workmanship, (you will find this account 
more accurate than your present one).*° 


85. The church and convent of San Francesco were founded in 1261. The cloister referred to, 
however, dates from the late 15th century. Ruskin had made a pen and wash drawing of cloister 
and campanile before leaving Pisa (Bem. 1363) (cf. Praeterita , where he recalls S. Francesco 
in 1845 as “exquisite in its arched perspective and central garden, and noble in its unbuttressed 
height of belfry tower” [XXXV, 355]). The frescoes in the Chapter House off the cloister, 
representing episodes from the life of Christ, are by Niccold di Pietro Gerini, and were begun 
in 1392. They are analysed in detail in the Résumé. The frescoes on the roof of the choir, ascribed 
by Vasari to Taddeo Gaddi, were attributed by Roberto Longhi to a Sienese painter showing 
Florentine influence, since identified by L. Bellosi as Jacopo di Mino del Pellicciaio (Bollettino 
d’Arte [1972], 73-77). HTNI 1847 (464) incorporates Ruskin’s remarks on both sets of frescoes 
and the cloister, placed within inverted commas and initialled. It also includes a reference, as 
suggested, to the aisle-less Franciscan church architecture. 


86. The church of S. Caterina d’ Alessandria is thought to have been founded by the Dominican 
Uguccione de’ Sardi in 1220 and was probably completed by 1261, with the exception of the 
fagade, which was added in the 14th century. S. Caterina subsequently became a Dominican 
convent, but this was suppressed in the second half of the 18th century. 


87. i.e. the passage recording the saint’s period of residence in the convent and the exhibition 
in the church of the pulpit he preached from. 


88. This Archbishop of Pisa’s tomb was carved by Andrea and Nino Pisano after 1342. The 
present is not its original position in the church, nor would it have rested on the floor, as now, 
but rather have been placed on the wall. It is also possible that the tomb as it has survived was 
originally enclosed within an elaborate architectural structure. 


89. Cf. HTNI 1842 (473): “[Archbishop Saltarelli’s] statue is a noble effigy, both in material 
and in labour. The monument is in itself a complete structure, with a profusion of the most elegant 
tabernacle-work and small figures.” Ruskin’s account is inserted almost verbatim (“disproportion- 
al” changed to “disproportionate”) in HTNI 1847 (463), together with the majority of the following 
notes on the church, ina single passage, placed within inverted commas and initialled “R.” This 
passage substituted most of Palgrave’s original account. 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 603 


On the right hand side of the door. Monument of Simone di Gherardo — coarsely 
decorated and altogether uninteresting.” 


On the left hand side of the Nave, half way up. Picture of Traini.”' Christ from 
his lips sends rays of light to the heads of the four evangelists, from whom they are 
reflected to the head of St Thomas — who then illuminates — first Plato & Aristotle 
& then all the doctors of the Church. The figures of the Greek philosophers are the 
finest. 


Just beyond this picture, St Thomas’s pulpit.” 


In a chapel of the south transept. Altarpiece attributed to Fra Bartolomeo. Entirely 
repainted & good for nothing.” 


In a chapel beside it, in the same transept, two most interesting statues by Nino 
Pisano,” Faith & Charity — the custode calls them — Faith & Hope — I believe” 
— or perhaps neither the one nor the other — but at any rate two noble pieces of 
marble, inimitable for grace — chastity, & animation, and remarkable, because 
bearing evidence of the rich painting which all Ninos work seems to have undergone. 
The irises of the eyes have been painted dark, the inside of the dresses blue, and 
their fringes richly gilt, as well as the hair.*° This has been the case also with the 


90. Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 474) had written of the tomb of Gherardo di Bartolomeo di Simone 
Compagno, completed by 1419, “The bold workmanship of this monument is accompanied by 
the utmost purity of design, both of the foliage of the ornaments and the figures.” There is no 
reference to the tomb in HTNI 1847. 


91. The Triumph of St Thomas Aquinas. Vasari’s ascription of the panel to Francesco Traini has 
been questioned, and it is now attributed to a follower of Simone Martini, possibly Lippo Memmi 
or Berna/Barna da Siena, some think in conjunction with Traini. 


92. This mention of the pulpit was omitted from the paragraph signed “R.” in HTNI 1847 (463), 
as it was already noticed in the passage that survived from HTNI 1842 (473). 


93. A Madonna and Child with Sts Peter and Paul, by Fra Bartolomeo (and Mariotto Albertinelli, 
according to Crowe and Cavalcaselle: A New History of Italian Painting [1864-66], III, 453-54) 
dated 1511. Crowe and Cavalcaselle note that the upper part of the painting is new and most of 
it repainted. They also explain its “inky tone” as due to damage in a fire in the 17th century. 
The painting now hangs - still less visible - in the north transept. 


94. An Annunciation group (Archangel Gabriel and Virgin), originally in S. Zeno, but in S. 
Caterina since the early 15th century. It was attributed by Vasari to Nino, but this has been 
questioned (recently by A. F. Moskowitz, The Sculpture of Andrea and Nino Pisano (Cambridge, 
1986], 74-79, who attributes the statues to an independent unidentified sculptor). In the chapel 
of Sts Peter and Paul in the early 19th century, the statues were moved in 1946 to their present 
position either side of the chancel arch. 


95. A semi-colon has been inserted here in pencil. 
96. In HTNI 1847 (463), the reference to the custode (bracketed in pencil in the letter), as well 
as Ruskin’s own suggested subject, are omitted. The emended account reads, “ ... by Nino Pisano, 


called ‘Faith and Charity,’ but the subject is doubtful; they are admirable for grace, purity, 
animation...” 


604 PAUL TUCKER 


exq exquisite Madonna of La Spina.” 


Apropos of La Spina, Razzis Madonna therein is a very noble picture indeed” — 
& has much sentiment & feeling both — (vide p. 470)[.] The St Peter should be more 
praised (Nino’s).” 


Duomo. It would be as well to mention that not a single line of this building is 
upright. That the facade overhangs its base — visibly — and that the upper {lower} 
row of arches has subsided at the east end three feet before the upper one was 
superimposed — and then they have been built level again by dead wall to receive 
the upper story — so that the building looks as if it were stretching itself; bigger 


It is also curious — of the seven arches composing the basement ef story of the front, 
that though the Ist & 7th, the second & 6th, and the 3rd & Sth, are intended to 
correspond not one is actually equal to another, there being a variation of about two 
inches between each pair. Their measurements are the following. 


Braccias. Palms. Inches. 
Nerthern {Southern} arch 6. 0 [24 4% 
— Second. 6. 4. 3 
— Third 2 0 
Fourth. 8. 0. 0. 
Fifth. a: 2. 1% 
Sixth. 6 3 1% 
Northern arch. 5 5 3% 


my braccia measure is divided into six palms, & each palm into 4 inches.'” 


97. This last remark, relating to the statue of the Madonna della Rosa, now attributed to Nino 
and Andrea Pisano, in S. Maria della Spina, was transferred (slightly revised and with inverted 
commas and initial) to the account of the chapel in HTNI 1847 (460): “‘This exquisite work seems 
to have been richly painted, and the hair gilt.’ - R.” This replaced Palgrave’s appreciation of the 
Statue’s ‘Raphaelesque’ expressiveness: “The expression of tenderness in the Virgin, and of 
infantine joy in the Child, strongly remind you of Raphael’s first manner” (HTNI 1842, 470). 
Ruskin sketched the statue in the first volume of the Résumé (Bem. MS SA, f. 7 verso). 


98. The Madonna and Child by Giovanni Antonio Bazzi (commonly called ‘Razzi’ in the 19th 
century and generally known as ‘Sodoma’), now in the Museo di S. Matteo. Palgrave had 
described the work as “well and carefully drawn, but without sentiment or feeling” (HTNI 1842, 
470). Cf. HTNI 1847, 460: “‘It is a very noble picture, and has much sentiment and feeling.’ - 
RY? 


99. Either side of the Madonna della Rosa in S. Maria della Spina are two statues also now 
attributed to Nino and Andrea, St Peter and St John the Baptist. Ruskin describes the former 
in his Résumé (Bem. MS 5B, f. 18 verso) as the most sacred and “living” piece of sculpture he 
had ever seen. His recommendation that the statue should be “more praised” resulted only in the 
insertion of the clause “which has been much praised” immediately after its mention (HTNI 1847, 
460). 


100. These notes on the Duomo were inserted in HTNI 1847 (443) ina slightly revised form 


-~ SO 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 605 


I will send you some more notes about the Duomo on Friday. DV.""' yours truly 
JRuskin. 


10) 


[n.p., n.d. 
My Dear Sir 


I have been engaged this week more than I expected — or you should have heard 
from me before. I find the rest of my notes on Pisa relate to architectural details 
which are of no use in a guide. 


At PISTOJA— P. 440,'° the Guido da Como pulpit {in St Bartolomeo}'™ ought 
to be taken more notice of — not as an imitation of Nicolo Pisano however, for it 


and without inverted commas or initial: the phrase “so that the building looks as if it were 
stretching itself” and the measurements were omitted, and “east end” was corrected to “west end.” 
The notes are preceded by the sentence, “The building has however suffered a good deal from 
settlement.” The effect, well described by Ruskin, of the building’s seeming to stretch itself 
towards the west end, is especially visible on the south side of the Duomo and is due to the 
progressive diminution in height from the ground of the last five arches in the lowest storey, while 
at the same time the cornice, which in the main body of the nave rests on the arches’ apices, rises 
as it approaches the front. Aside from the question of subsidence (for which there is no documen- 
tary evidence), the anomalous character of this final section of the nave (also evident in an abrupt 
change of materials and discontinuous decorative elements) has been cited by scholars in support 
of the thesis (still a subject of controversy) that there were two phases of construction, in which 
an earlier facade, positioned about 20 metres behind the present front (its supposed foundations 
were found during excavations in 1917), was replaced after a lengthening of the nave. In his 
Résumé (Bem. MS 5B, f. 11), Ruskin cannot decide whether the “distortions” alluded to here 
were intentional or not. The question would have intrigued the young critic, who four years later, 
in The Seven Lamps of Architecture, was to investigate the calculated waywardness of “Living 
Architecture”: architecture that has “sensation in every inch of it, and an accomodation to every 
architectural necessity, with a determined variation in every arrangement, which is exactly like 
the related proportions and provisions in the structure of organic form” (VIII, 204). Ruskin was 
to return to the specific problem of the Duomo’s overhanging facade and ‘distorted’ nave during 
his last visit to Pisa in 1882. At the request of Charles Eliot Norton, and with the assistance of 
Giacomo Boni, he undertook a detailed survey of the west end of the Duomo. The resulting report 
was unfortunately lost, but its conclusions are probably expressed in the assertion to Norton that 
“there is no endeavour to obtain deceptive perspectives anywhere, but only to get continual variety 
of line - and an almost exulting delight in conquering difficulties or introducing anomalies” - 
particularly the subsidence of the five westernmost arches of the nave, “added after the rest with 
less careful foundation” (The Correspondence of John Ruskin and Charles Eliot Norton, eds. J. 
L. Bradley & I. Ousby [Cambridge, 1987], 454). 


101. i.e. ‘Deo volente’ (God willing). 
102. Postmarked 6 January 1846. 
103. All notes in this letter are crossed through vertically in pen. 


104. The pulpit by Guido da Como (Guido Bigarelli) in the church of S. Bartolomeo in Pantano 
(1250). 


606 PAUL TUCKER 


is more archaic in manner — and very barbarous — but quaint & interesting — 
supported by a figure with its hands on its knees in a skull cap, of ignoble features 
— like a black slave — and by two beasts, one a lioness suckling cub, the other a 
lion standing over a winged dragon who bites his lip — a frequent sculpture, 
occurring at Parma — Lucca — & other Romanesque buildings. All the figures have 
the iris of the eye painted a vigorous black.'™ 


At San Francesco. The frescos in the chapter hall are not noticed — attributed to 
Puccio di Pietro, but I cannot answer for their authorship. They are of considerable 
interest however'® 


In the campanile of the Duomo the arches are not open, but are filled up above the 
capitals with black & white mosaic, thus giving the same square light & shade as 
in the Baptistery of Lucca. # {This} is not agreeable.'’ 


When I was there, they were knocking the china of the Palazzo Pretorio to pieces, 
and the Palazzo della Communita'™® was restored & destroyed'” — 


FLORENCE 


105. HTNI 1842 (440) had simply cited the pulpit, describing Guido as “a pupil, or at least close 
imitator, of Nicolo Pisano”. Ruskin’s notes, very slightly revised (“incident” substituted for 
“sculpture” and the adjective “vigorous” omitted), replace Palgrave’s notice in HTNI 1847 (435). 
It is curious that Ruskin, who in the 1870s would be so enthralled by the inlaid eyes of this school 
of sculpture, for which he claimed “Etruscan” and ultimately Greek descent (see Ruskin and 
Tuscany, 76-77, 95-96, 110), should have mistaken the black stones or pieces of lead normally 
inserted in the eye for paint. There are no notes on Pistoia in the Résumé. 


106. The frescoes on the ceiling of the Chapter House, representing the Resurrection and 3 
episodes from the life of St Francis, are traditionally ascribed to Puccio Capanna. Cf. HTNI 1847 
(436-37): “In the chapter hall are some frescos, attributed to Puccio di Pietro, of considerable 
interest.” 


107. Cf. HTNI 1842, 439): “Giovanni Pisano adapted [the campanile] to its present purpose, 
adding three tiers of open arches, and a lofty pyramidal spire”; corrected in HTNI 1847 (434) 
to “ ... purpose, adding three tiers of arches, filled up above the line of the capitals with black 
and white mosaic, and a lofty ...” Palgrave’s closing remark (“... the whole exhibiting much 
singularity”) was also omitted. “Lucca” here may be a slip for Pistoia: the Lucca Baptistery has 
nothing obviously in common with this campanile, whereas the lunette over the main door of the 
Baptistery in Pistoia has the same chequered patterning as the arch heads referred to. There is 
a sketch by Ruskin of part of the campanile and the neighbouring Palazzo di Communita, which 
probably dates from 1845 or 1846 (Brant. 972). Ruskin also had the campanile daguerreotyped, 
probably in 1846 (Bem. Dag. 64). 


108. Note in the margin: “What is this word?” 


109. The 14th century Palazzo Pretorio in the main square of Pistoia has the walls of its inner 
portico decorated with numerous coats of arms, in fresco, marble and glazed terracotta. The 
building was enlarged between 1844 and 1846. The Palazzo della Communita (or del Comune 
as it is now known) was begun in 1294 and was enlarged during the 14th century. HTNI 1847 
(432-33) omits any mention of restoration or other work on either building. 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 607 


Santa Maria del Fiore''® 
The group over the high altar is by M. Angelo, not Bandinelli’ 


(What authority is there for attributing the design of the cupola frescos to Vasa- 
6 We) 


Every traveller — instead of going up the Campanile should go up the dome — first 
because it is higher — and the view towards Fiesole is not interrupted by the mass 
of the dome itself — as from the Campanile, — secondly because he thereby sees 
the architecture of the two shells — & thirdly because he cannot form the slightest 
idea of its size without doing so.''? Zuccaro has managed his frescos so cleverly 
that {from below} they look the size of life (— when in reality the feet are a yard 
long), and the whole expanse of the dome is destroyed. 


In speaking of the front of the facade raised by Giotto — reference should be made 
to a lunette in the outer cloister of St Marco — where it occurs in the back- 
ground.'!* 


Or San Michele. It is not true that Orcagna used no cement in the shrine here —the 
cement is seen very plainly.'’° Its sculptures are evidently all Orcagnas designs 
— & to me the most interesting in Florence — the one mentioned in the guide though 
the [?largest] is not the best''® — and is seen with great difficulty[.] If you would 


110. The Duomo. 


111. Michelangelo’s unfinished Pieta, begun in 1550, had been placed behind the high altar in 
1780, remaining there until 1980, when it was moved to the Museo dell’ Opera del Duomo. 
Palgrave’s mistaken attribution of the Pietd to Bandinelli (HTNI/ 1842, 500) was corrected inHTNI 
1847 (487). 


112. A note in pen in the margin reads, “Was it ever called in question before? See his Opere 
Minori Ed.” The frescoes decorating the interior of the cupola and representing the Last 
Judgement were begun by Vasari in 1572 and completed by Federico Zucccari after his death 
two years later. 


113. This advice was inserted, without inverted commas, slightly revised and ina less categorical 
form (“... instead of, or besides, going up the campanile ...”), in HTNJ 1847 (485). Cf. Ril, 122. 


114. The original fagade of the Duomo (begun in 1296 to a design by Arnolfo di Cambio) 
remained only half completed until it was thrown down in 1588. The intention was to put up a 
more ‘modern’ one in its place. However, Arnolfo’s unfinished fagade (Giotto designed the 
Campanile) was not replaced until the 1870s, when the present neo-Gothic front was erected. The 
reference is to the fresco of S. Antonino’s Election as Bishop of Florence by Bernardo Poccetti 
(1548-1612), inthe Chiostro diS. Antonino in the convent of S. Marco. The note was incorporat- 
ed into HTNI 1847 (484), without inverted commas. 


115. On the marble shrine or tabernacle (1355-59) by Orcagna (Andrea di Cione) in the church 
of Orsanmichele cf. HTNI 1842 (509): “In order that the materials might retain all their lustre 
and brilliancy, Orcagna would not employ any cement or mortar, but caused the pieces to be 
clamped with metal.” This sentence was omitted from HTNI 1847 (495). On Orcagna’s use of 
cement, cf. XII, 232. 


116. Ruskin is perhaps correcting an inference drawn from Palgrave’s noticing “A bas relief 


608 PAUL TUCKER 


like a list of the subjects I can send it to you.!!” 


There is also a pieta by Orcagna — peculiarly fine — over the altar — which the 
book does not mention.'!® 


Santa Croce. The book has made as nice a mess as could be wished of the geogra- 
phy of it — & it is a plaguy church to fish for what you want in, — if you will let 
me know whether your editor has a good account of it — it may save me the trouble 
of copying my notes — but if yeu he has not — I will send you a rough plan, with 
the places of the things, which would have been very useful to me — if there had 
been one ready for me.'!® 


Santa M. Novella (Ghirlandajo.) Ginevra di Benchi is not in the fresco of the Birth 
of the Virgin, she is the single figure (followed by two attendants) who w[?al]ks 
behind the Virgin in the Salutation.'” I [?know] her because I saw a careful portrait 
of her at [?p]rofessor Rosini’s, Pisa[.]'?' In the Orcagna chapel, it should be 
noticed that the Inferno is entirely repainted — and absolutely good for nothing, even 
the gestures & outlines of the figures being destroyed.'” 


The Annunciation of Angelico in the sacristy reliquary is by far the finest small work 


by his own hand in very elegant taste” of the “Death and Assumption of the Virgin” behind the 
altar (HTNI 1842, 509). 


117. Ruskin supplies the list in Letter VI, and the information was included in HTNI 1847 (495). 


118. Rectified in HTNI 1847 (495): “The church also contains, over the principal altar, a fine 
pieta by Orgagna.” This has since been replaced by a Madonna and Child by Francesco da 
Sangallo (1522). 


119. HTNI 1847 (499) carries a ground plan of the east end of Santa Croce, probably supplied 
by Ruskin (see Letter VI). 


120. Palgrave had commented of the “remarkably lovely and dignified group of female figures” 
surrounding the infant in the Birth of the Virgin, one of the frescoes in the choir of S. Maria 
Novella by Domenico, Davide and Benedetto Ghirlandaio, Sebastiano Mainardi and others (1485- 
90), that “one of them is said to be Ginevra de’ Benci” (HTNI 1842, 517). The figure indicated 
by Ruskin (behind Elizabeth, not the Virgin) was identified by Vasari as Ginevra de’ Benci “allora 
bellissma fanciulla [then a beautiful girl]” (1, 461). However, she is now thought to be a portrait 
of Giovanna degli Albizzi, whose father-in-law Giovanni Tornabuoni commissioned the frescoes. 
Cf. HTNI 1847 (504): “The Salutation. The single figure, followed by two attendants, who walks 
behind Elizabeth, is Ginevra de’ Benci, celebrated as one of the beauties of her time.” 


121. The portrait is not listed in the 1882 catalogue of part of Rosini’s collection. 


122. The chapel is the Cappella Strozzi, decorated with frescoes of the Last Judgement and Hell 
or Inferno by Nardo di Cione around 1357, and then attributed to Nardo and Andrea. Palgrave 
had praised these “very remarkable Dantesque frescoes,” containing “a wonderful number of 
figures,” as “the fruits of exuberant imagination and unwearied diligence” (HTNI 1842, 518). 
This opening plaudit, together with a second comparison to Dante and report of the local tradition 
regarding the identification of certain figures in the Hell, were omitted in HTNI 1847 (505) and 
Ruskin’s phrase “entirely repainted and good for nothing” inserted. 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 609 


of his in Florence.'?? The pulpit should be noticed. I cannot find the sculptors 
name, but it gives a series of the events usually sketched from the life of the Virgin 
with great purity & expression. I prefer it to Benedetto da Majano’s at Santa Croce. 
The figures have been gilt.'” 


San Marco. It would be well to distinguish the localities of Fra Angelico’s works 
here,’ thus, 


In the outer cloister.'”° In a lunette beside the door — Head of St Dominic. !”’ 


Opposite, under glass, St Dominic at the foot of the cross.'” In another lunette 
at the farther angle, head of Christ.'”° 


— In this same cloister, the chapter hall containing the crucifixion'® — which by 
the way is by no means a first rate work of Angelico’s — and shows all his faults, 
though many of his beauties[.]'*! The dark red sky, noticed in the book, is a 
ground which appears under the blue in all the early frescos. I imagine the blue has 
here never been laid on.'” 


123. The reliquary, which also shows the Adoration of the Magi, was painted for S. Maria 
Novella in 1430-34. It is now in the Museo di S. Marco. Ruskin drew the Annunciation in pencil 
(Bem. 1114) while in Florence and analysed it in his Résumé (“one of the most exalted and 
faultless conceptions which the human mind has ever reached of divine things” [Bem. MS 5B, 
f. 118]). The present note was inserted verbatim (except for the omission of “reliquary”), within 
inverted commas and signed “R.”, in HTNI 1847 (505-6). 


124. The pulpit is by Andrea Cavalcanti (known as ‘il Buggiano’) (1412-62), to designs by 
Brunelleschi. The reliefs representing the life of the Virgin were gilt in the 18thcentury. Cf. HTN/ 
1847 (506): “The pulpit is worth notice; the sculptures give the usual events from the life of the 
Virgin with great purity and expresion. They are by Maestro Lazzaro. The figures have been gilt.” 


125. Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 532) had only noticed three of the extant works of Fra Angelico in 
the convent (an Annunciation, a St Dominic at the Foot of the Cross, and a Crucifixion), giving 
the location of the last only (the Chapter House). 


126. Chiostro di S. Antonino. 

127. If “Opposite” in the next sentence is correct, then the half-length figure in this lunette, 
beside the entrance from the street, is of St Thomas Aquinas (he holds up a copy of the Summa 
Theologica). St Dominic is represented in a very poorly preserved lunette over the door into the 
Chapter House in the same cloister. The St Thomas is considered autograph. 

128. Considered autograph and thought by John Pope-Hennessy (Angelico [Firenze, 1981], 33) 
to be the the last of the frescoes painted by Angelico before a summons to Rome by Pope 
Eugenius IV (1445) interrupted his work at S. Marco. 

129. A Pietd, in the south-east corner further from the church, also generally considered 
autograph. 

130. This passage, from “In the outer cloister ...”, slightly revised, opens the account of Fra 
Angelico’s works in S. Marco in HTNI 1847 (518). 

131. This remark, evidently a reaction to Palgrave’s having described it as the artist’s “great 
masterpiece” (HTNI 1842, 532), was not included in HTNI 1847. 


132. Palgrave had noticed the dark red sky and suggested that it had been “painted in, since the 


610 PAUL TUCKER 


At Fronting the top of the stairs in the corridor of the first story.'°? The Annuncia- 
tion.'* 


Opposite it. Another crucifixion'®* — very fine. 


— In the same corridor — farther on. The madonna & child enthroned — with four 
saints!*° 


In a cell of this corridor — The Assumptien {Incoronazione}, the finest work in the 
convent.!37 — 


In another cell. Christ descends to the spirits in prison.'** 
And three or four small subjects in the cells of the same passage.'” 


There is a fair Fra Bartolomeo in the church which is not noticed in the book — but 
it is nearly burned to pieces by the candles.'”° 


artist’s time.” Ruskin had recorded several instances among the Camposanto frescoes where what 
seemed to be a preparatory red ground had become visible, apparently either because the upper 
colour (usually blue) had perished or else because it had never been applied. His explanation of 
the dark red sky of this Crucifixion as a preparatory ground is repeated in HTNI 1847 (518), 
except that there it is suggested, not that the blue for the sky had never been laid on, but that 
it had “since fallen off” (HTNI 1847, 518). Cf. Pope-Hennessy (Angelico , 39): “the original 
blue ground has been removed, leaving the figures like cut-out silhouettes on the restored red 
underpainting.” 

133. Ruskin’s notes, from “Fronting the top of the stairs ...” to “spirits in prison” are all 
included, slightly revised (e.g. “the Coronation of the Virgin, called the finest ...”) but without 
inverted commas, in HTNI 1847 (518). 


134. Inthe upper corridor, widely considered autograph, painted according to some critics during 
the first phase of Angelico’s work at S. Marco (c. 1438-1445), and by others after his return there 
from Rome, c. 1450. See Modern Painters Il (IV, 264). 


135. Christon the Cross Adored by St Dominic, considered part-autograph by most, and by Pope- 
Hennessy as the work of a “studio assistant” (Angelico, 32). 


136. Madonna and Child with Sts Dominic, Cosmas, Damian, Mark, John the Evangelist, Thomas 
Aquinas, Lawrence and Peter Martyr (i.e. 8 saints, 4 oneach side), considered autograph by some 
critics and by others a collaborative production, dated by some around 1439, by others after the 
return from Rome, c. 1450. 


137. Incoronation of the Virgin, upper corridor, cell 9. Generally considered autograph, possibly 
among the earliest of the frescoes painted by Angelico in the convent. 


138. Christ in Limbo, cell 31. Generally considered to be a product of Angelico’s workshop, 
it is attributed by several critics to Zanobi Strozzi and by Pope-Hennessy (Angelico, 32) to an 
unidentified painter, responsible for cells 31-35. See Modern Painters II (IV, 100-101). 

139. A cross in pencil in the margin refers to a note in pencil at the foot of the page: “Omitted. 
The three Maryies at the Sepulchre in one of the cells in this corridor.” A reference to this fresco 
(Entombment, cell 2) was added to Ruskin’s notes in HTNI 1847 (518). 


140. A Madonna and Child with Saints dated 1509. Cf. HTNI 1847 (516): “a fine Fra 
Bartolomeo, much injured by candles.” 


John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 611 


Yours ever very truly 
JRuskin. 


Vv 
Thursday Evening [7 January 1846'*'] 
My dear Sir — 


I had not received your kind note when I met you yesterday evening — you must 
have thought it strange that I did not speak of it. 


I go on with the Florence churches.'” 


Santo Spirito.'*? The Bronzino & Lippi in the sacristy are good for nothing —the 
former of course not'* — the praise & importance given to Bronzino are the worst 
feature in the criticism of the book.'** [blank] But in the south transept, a Madonna 
& four saints given to Giotto — not his — but well worth study. The Infant Christ 


141. Postmarked 9 January 1846. 


142. All the notes in this letter are crossed through vertically except part of that onS. Ambrogio 
(dealing with the Mino di Fiesole tabernacle and the Crucifixion) and those on Casa Buonarroti 
and the Uffizi. 


143. There are no notes on this church in the Résumé. 


144. The “Bronzino” is S. Fiacre Healing the Sick (1596) by Alessandro Allori (nephew and 
adopted son of Agnolo, from whom he acquired the name ‘il Bronzino’), still in the Sacristy. 
The ‘Lippi’ is almost certainly the Tryptych with the Virgin and Child and Saints, now in the 
National Gallery, London and attributed to Zanobi Macchiavelli (c. 1418-79). This was bought 
in 1857 from the Lombardi-Bardi collection in Florence, where it was claimed as a work by Fra 
Filippo Lippi and stated to have been in the sacristy of S. Spirito. Martin Davies (The Earlier 
Italian Schools. National Gallery Catalogues {[London, 1986], 323-34) suggests that the painting 
may well have come from S. Spirito but that statements as to its location in the church were 
probably the result of its being confused with the Barbadori altarpiece by Fra Filippo Lippi (1437), 
mentioned by Vasari as in the Sacristy (I, 387), but already in the Louvre in 1814. Davies also 
states that the painting was in the Lombardi-Bardi collection by 1845. However, Ruskin evidently 
saw a ‘Lippi’ in the sacristy in 1845, and the location is confirmed by Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 534) 
who furthermore gives the subject as a “Virgin by Frate Filippo Lippi.” The attribution to Fra 
Filippo Lippi was accepted with reservations by the National Gallery at the time of the purchase, 
but was questioned by Crowe & Cavalcaselle, who were the first to associate the tryptych with 
Macchiavelli (History of Painting, IV, eds. Douglas & De Nicola, 175, 364). HTNI 1847 (524) 
omits all mention of either work. 


145. e.g. Palgrave’s praise (HTNI 1842, 561) of Agnolo Bronzino’s Descent of Christinto Limbo, 


_ then in the Uffizi. Originally painted for the Cappella Zanchini in S. Croce, this was removed 


from the church in 1821, asa result of long-standing doubts over the propriety of so many female 
nudes in a religious picture. After more than a hundred years in the Uffizi it was transferred to 
the Museo diS. Croce, and after being badly damaged in the flood in 1966, to the Soprintendenza 


alle Galerie. It is the object of a withering critique by Ruskin in his Résumé (Bem. MS 5B, ff. 


50-51; cf. Modern Painters II [IV, 101-102, 319]). In the margin of the letter, opposite Ruskin’s 


_ reference to Bronzino, is a caricature in pen of a face in profile with a hand, fingers outspread, 


held up to its nose. 


612 PAUL TUCKER 


has a “cardellino” in his hand — note if [?their] be any typical meaning attached 
to the tricolour head of this bird, red, blue, & white.'*° 


Over an altar — same transept — is a copy of Perugino, highly valuable as the 
picture is I believe in Russia, [?it] is a good copy, and the picture has been one of 
his very finest. (The vision of St Bernard).'*’ 


Carmine.'** The Germans have made such a mess of their authorization here that 
one is in doubt of everything'*? — but I can answer for this, at any rate — that 
the £ compartment called the “tribute money” is not by Masolino; and I should 
strenuously dispute its being given to Lippi” — Besides — what is the use in a 
guide book of telling you whom the compartments are painted by before you are told 
where they are, so that you lose half an hour in making out the order of them.'* 


They ought to be arranged thus, & read from left to right. 
On entering the chapel. 
Wall on the left hand. Uppermost line. 


146. Madonna and Child with Sts Mary Magdalene, Julian, Catherine of Alexandria and Andrew 
by Maso di Bianco (c. 1345) in the 17th chapel. Fantozzi (686) mentions four saints in four 
separate panels by “Giotto” in the 18th chapel. Formigli (193) gives the same description and 
attribution, but in the 17th chapel. Cf. Crowe & Cavalcaselle, History of Painting, Il, eds. 
Douglas & Strong, 245, where the 15th chapel is said to contain an altarpiece with 4 saints in 
Agnolo Gaddi’s style. HTNI 1847 (524) includes Ruskin’s note, slightly revised, but omits the 
query as to the iconographical significance of the cardellino (goldfinch). 


147. Perugino’s Vision of St Bernard is in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich. A reference to the copy 
was inserted in HTNI 1847 (524): “a good copy of a Perugino, the vision of St. Bernard. It is 
valuable, because the original is in Russia.” 


148. Ruskin is referring here to the frescoes (c. 1424-85) by Masolino, Masaccio and Filippino 
Lippi, illustrating the life of St Peter and the Fall of Adam and Eve, in the Cappella Brancacci 
of S. Maria del Carmine. 


149. Principally, of course, Franz Kugler. Cf. HTNI 1847, 525: “The German critics have, after 
their manner, been exhibiting their hyper-sagacity in authoritatively assigning various portions 
to the respective artists in opposition to the usually received account. The result of course is doubt 
as to almost every part. Avoiding this controversy, we will give the subjects of the paintings in 
order, together with the names which have been assigned by persons of some skill, leaving to 
the traveller the vain and unprofitable task of deciding between these names and those given by 
others.” 


150. i.e. Filippino Lippi, who completed the decoration of the chapel (1481-85), begun by 
Masolino shortly before 1424 (according to some scholars together with Masaccio) and continued 
by Masaccio (1425-28). Masaccio’s fresco known as ‘The Tribute Money’ had been attributed 
to Masolino by Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 535), but to Masaccio by Kugler (106). Some scholars 
believe the head of Christ to be by Masolino. 


151. As noted above, in addition to not giving their locations, Palgrave had confused left and 


right, possibly because he was working from engravings. The frescoes are arranged in two 
registers on the three walls of the chapel (its fourth side being open to the church). 





John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 613 


1°. subject (, narrow). Expulsion of Ad. & Eve. — Lippi.'” 


2m ------ Large. Tribute money. Masaccio'* 
Lower line. 

1“. narrow __ St Paul visits St Peter. Masaccio.'™ 

2™. Large. Restoration of the youth Chiefly Masaccio 


but the youth & several other 
figures by Lippi.'* 


Altar end. Uppermost line. 


— by the by it is all given very neatly in Kugler — all but the names — which I dont 
believe in the least — These at the altar end I could not judge of — but at the two 
sides I looked carefully — Fh leaving the altar end as it is in Kugler'*’ — therefore, 
I say, 


Right hand wall. Uppermost line. 


1". large. Healing at the beautiful gate. Masolino.'*’ 
2nd. narrow. Fall of Adam. Lippi.'* 


152. The celebrated Expulsion of Adam and Eve from Paradise by Masaccio was attributed to 
Masaccio by Kugler (106) and to “Masaccio or Masolino” by Palgrave (“for there is great 
difficulty in distinguishing their respective productions” [HTNIJ 1842, 536]). HTNI 1847 (525) 
also attributes the fresco to Lippi, though without citing Ruskin. 


153. Also attributed to Masaccio in HTNI 1847 (525). 


154. St Peter in Prison Visited by St Paul, now attributed to Lippi, was assisgned to this artist 
by Kugler and to “Masaccio or Masolino” by Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 536). It is attributed to Lippi 
in HTNI 1847 (525), without citing Ruskin. 


155. The Resuscitation of the Son of Theophilus, Prefect of Antioch, and St Peter Preaching is 
now considered largely by Masaccio but as having been completed by Lippi (responsible for the 
five figures on the extreme left, except for the head of the fourth from the left, as well as the 
central portion between St Peter and the 3 Carmelites). It is so attributed by Kugler (107), while 
Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 536) attributes it solely to Masaccio. HTNI 1847 (525) describes the panel 
as “chiefly by Masaccio, the youth and some figures in the centre being by Lippi”. 


156. Of the four frescoes on this wall (St Peter Preaching; St Peter Baptizing; St Peter, Followed 
by St John, Healing the Sick with his Shadow and Sts Peter and John Distributing Alms), Kugler 
attributed all to Masaccio but the first, which he thought by Masolino. This is now the accepted 
account of the frescoes’ authorship. It is followed in HTNI 1847 (525), whereas Palgrave had 
attributed all four to Lippi (HTNJ 1842, 536). 


157. The Healing of the Cripple at the Beautiful Gate, by Masolino, and so attributed in HTN/ 
1842 (535) and HTNI 1847 (525) (Kugler [107] by implication excludes its being by Masaccio, 
but does not explicitly attribute the fresco to either Masolino or Lippi). 

158. The Fall of Adam and Eve, by Masolino, tentatively attributed by Kugler to Lippi (107). 


Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 536) attributes it to “Masaccio or Masolino.” HTNI 1847 (525) repeats 
Ruskin’s attribution, without citing him. 


614 PAUL TUCKER 


Lower line. 


1“. large. Martyrdom of St Peter. The right hand 
& fine portion Masaccio.'* 
2™. narrow. Liberation of Peter. Lippi.’ 


I have attributed to Masaccio those portions in which I perceived a new element of 
art introduced — a system of colour before unknown — at all events I think the 
portions must be all by the same hand, — all must be his — or none. 


The monument of Pietro Soderini is not in marble — only stucco.'*! 


In the refectory there is a cenacolo by Vasari, somewhat interesting — and several 
works attributed to great masters but which did not strike me, and I gave them no 
time. You ought to get some information about them.'® 


L’Annunziata. In the Cappella de’ Pittori’® I saw no taking down from the Cross 
by Angelico, but there are three little subjects by him over the altar, rather ludicrous 
but valuable.'™ 


159. The panel with the Martyrdom of St Peter is now acceped as Lippi’s. Ruskin apparently 
attributes the right-hand portion of this panel only to Masaccio (in the Résumé he claims it to 
be by the same hand as painted the Resuscitation of the Son of Theophilus), leaving the left-hand 
part, representing Sts Peter and Paul before the Proconsul to Lippi. The whole panel is attributed 
by Kugler (107) to Lippi, while Palgrave gives it all to Masaccio. Cf. Ruskin’s letter to George 
Richmond, Florence 28 June, 1845: “If all the wrong-headed Germans between the Rhine and 
the Elbe were to swear that the Tribute Money was his and the Martyrdom of Peter was not, I 
shouldn’t believe them” (XXXVI, 51-52). HTNI 1847 (526) repeats Ruskin’s division of the panel, 
giving “the right hand, and finer portion” to Masaccio. 


160. The Liberation of St Peter by Lippi, and thus attributed by Kugler (107), while Palgrave 
(TNI 1842, 536) gives it to “Masaccio or Masolino”. 


161. The tomb of Pietro Soderini (died 1522), in the choir of the church, is by Benedetto da 
Rovezzano. Palgrave (HTNI 1842, 536). Ruskin may be correcting Vasari here, who in his Vite 
twice speaks of the tomb as in marble (I, 15; II, 124). Ruskin’s correction was inserted in HTNI 
1847 (526). I have been unable to examine the tomb at close hand, but recent guides describe 
it as carved in marble. 


162. Neither of the two refectories in the Carmine monastery was noticed by Palgrave. There 
is no Last Supper by Vasari in either. Ruskin may have meant the Last Supper by Alessandro 
Allori in the first, or more probably the Christ at Supper in the House of the Pharisee (c. 1645) 
in the second by Giovanni Battista Vanni (1599-1660), whose name he may have misunderstood 
or mistranscribed. The mistaken reference was inserted in HTN/I 1847 (526). No further 
information on the works in the refectory was included. 


163. Also known as the Cappella della Compagnia di S. Luca, off the cloister of the church of 
the Santissima Annunziata. 


164. From the description of one of these in the Résumé (Bem. MS 5B, f. 120), it is clear that 
the three subjects referred to are three of the six scenes from the lives of Sts Cosmas and Damian 
forming part of the predella of the so-called ‘Annalena’ altarpiece by Fra Angelico (dated between 
1434 and 1438) and which were once in this chapel. Altarpiece and predella scenes are now in 
the Museo di S. Marco. The attribution to Angelico of the predella has been questioned by several 








John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 615 


The noble Perugino, (the Assumption) the most important work of his, for number 
of figures, in Florence, ought not to be confounded with the worthless daubs of 
Bronzino[.]'® It is in the last chapel next the transept on the left of the nave, 
looking to the altar.'® 


In the Spedale degl’Innocenti (Piazza dell’ Annunziata) is the most important easel 
picture of D. Ghirlandajo in Florence. Like those in the Uffizii, it is an adoration 
of the Kings, but far finer than either. The massacre of the Innocents is in the dis- 
tance.!° 


scholars. Palgrave’s reference (HTNI 1842, 538) toa “Taking down from the Cross” by Angelico 
(as yet untraced), was removed from HTNI 1847 (522) and substituted by a notice of “three small 
subjects from the exploits of St. Cosmus and St. Damianus, rather ludicrous, but valuable, by 
Beato Angelico.” 


165. In the margin, a caricature of a face, as above. 


166. This Assumption, in the fifth chapel on the north side of the nave, originally formed part 
of a polyptych begun by Filippino Lippi in 1503 and completed after his death by Perugino. 
Palgrave had simply listed it (as a “Virgin and Saints”) among the various paintings present in 
the church, without any accompanying comment and immediately after the Resurrection (c. 1550) 
by Agnolo Bronzino (on the other side of the nave), described as “a very fine and noble picture” 
(HTNI 1842, 539). The only substantial alteration made in HTNI 1847 (521) was the removal 
of this phrase, the picture now being described as “a fine Resurrection.” In his Résumé, Ruskin 
defends this work of Perugino’s against the criticisms of Rio, who writes, “[Perugino] was so 
little aware of the decline of his powers, that he undertook to paint a picture of the Assumption 
for the church of the Servites. This picture, to the triumph of his enemies, was not thought worthy 
to occupy the place that had been reserved for it”: Rio thought the painting confirmed “the severe 
judgment passed upon it by his contemporaries” (Poetry of Christian Art, 177). 


167. This Adoration of the Magi by Domenico Ghirlandaio, in the Pinacoteca of the Spedale 
degli Innocenti (foundling hospital), was commissioned in 1488 for the high altar of the hospital 
church. Of the two Adorations in the Uffizi mentioned by Ruskin here and in the Résumé (Bem. 
MS 5B, ff 36-38), one was certainly the tondo painted for Giovanni Tornabuoni in 1487 and still 
in the museum. There is no other painting of this subject currently attributed to Ghirlandaio in 
the gallery (a further Adoration, a version of the Tornabuoni tondo and traditionally attributed 
to Domenico, but now thought to be by Benedetto Ghirlandaio, was already in the Palazzo Pitti 
in 1845). However, Fantozzi (77) cites an Adoration by Domenico Ghirlandaio in the Corridore 
a Levante of the Uffizi and another in one of the rooms devoted to Tuscan art (150). This concurs 
with Ruskin’s more detailed notes in the Résumé, which show that the second Adoration was 
indeed in one of the Tuscan rooms off the Tribune. Rio (Poetry of Christian Art, 104) cites four 
Adorations by Ghirlandaio in Florence, but specifically discusses only the Tornabuoni tondo and 
the Spedale picture (in addition to the Pitti Adoration, the other two might have included the fresco 
panel devoted to this subject in the S. Maria Novella cycle). The second Uffizi Adoration 
mentioned by Ruskin is very probably the celebrated picture by Botticelli with portraits of the 
Medici family. Though rightly ascribed to this artist by Vasari, the painting is attributed to 
Ghirlandaio in the 1796 inventory of the Uffizi, while a note dated 1849 and inscribed opposite 
the relevant entry in the 1825 inventory (f. 38) states that the work had been recognized as 
Botticelli’s. The present note on the Spedale Adoration, was inserted with extra information (“of 
Domenico Ghirlandaio in Florence. It is full of figures. It is painted in tempera. The subject, as 
of those in the Uffizi ...”) in HTNI 1847 (522). 


616 PAUL TUCKER 


Santa Maria Maddalena. How Sir Francis came to attribute the incoronazione here 
to Angelico I cannot conceive, it is a bad Cosimo Rosselli[.]'® Sir F. seems not 
to have seen the fresco of Perugino, by far the finest work of the kind in Florence. 
Six figures, in three compartments[,] Christ crucified in centre — Magdalen at foot 
of cross. The Christ is a failure (this is often the case with Per.°) but the Magd. 
very fine. On the left, Madonna & St. Bernard. On right, St John & St Peter. The 
whole of the sky is now nearly white the blue having perished — as it has done from 
the red ground in Angelicos, but in the left hand compartment the whole of the upper 
part of the sky & tops of the trees have been villainously repainted, leaving a sharp 
line where Peruginos work begins. 


The landscape in the central division is exquisite — a sweet river flowing at the base 
of rocky hills among park like trees, and village with Gothic spire in distance. Note 
that all Perugino’s ideal buildings are Tedescan.'® 


St Ambrogio. Not mentioned in the book at all, contains the most valuable fresco 
existing of Cosimo Rosselli — (vide Kugler'”’) — it is very lovely. In the same 
little chapel the altar piece is by Mino da Fiesole — (though the priests did’nt know 
it till I showed them his name in the corner — Opus Mini) — the infant Christ in 
the sacramental cup. Prophets on each side — & a lovely predella— 


On the opposite {side} of the church I was puzzled by a crucifixion very early & 
rude, but Giottesque, & large — the border above it is the same as that employed 
in the Campo Santo, — fitting awkwardly into the modern work of the altar. It looks 
like a portion of a larger composition.'”’ 


168. The Incoronation by Cosimo Rosselli (1505) in the second chapel on the north side of the 
nave. All mention of the work was removed in HTNI 1847 (529). A note in pen in the margin 
of the letter justifies Palgrave’s mistake: “In all the guides it is attributed to Angelico.” But see 
Kugler, 117, who gives the correct attribution. 


169. Ruskin’s letters to his parents (RiJ, 98, 103, 116) tell of his repeated efforts to gain access 
to the convent of S. Maria Maddalena dei Pazzi in order to see this Crucifixion by Perugino 
(1493-96), in the old Chapter House. The fresco is subjected to minute analysis in the Résumé. 
Some of the observations there recorded subsequently found their way into the revised third edition 
of Modern Painters 1 (III, 520) and Modern Painters II (IV, 321-22). Palgrave had simply 
described the work as “a very grand and well-preserved fresco by P. Perugino, a Crucifixion” 
(HTNI 1842, 542). This sentence is followed in HTNI 1847 (529) by a revised version of Ruskin’s 
notes here on the fresco, placed within inverted commas and followed by his initial (it omits the 
remark concerning the general failure of Perugino’s Christs, the comparison with Angelico’s 
Crucifixion, the epithet “park like” and the final observation on Perugino’s “Tedescan [i.e. 
German, from the Italian tedesco, hence Gothic]” buildings). 


170. Kugler, 116. 
171. The short notice of the church of S. Ambrogio inserted in HTNJ 1847 (527) incorporates 
only Ruskin’s remarks on the fresco by Cosimo Rosselli (c. 1486) in the Cappella del Miracolo, 


which represents an episode from the history of the purportedly miraculous chalice preserved in 
the marble tabernacle by Mino da Fiesole (1481-83). For the story of how Ruskin ‘discovered’ 











John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 617 


Palazzo Ricardi.'” The contemptible stuff of Luca Giordano ought not to have 
more than a sentence, & the Benozzo Gozzoli {chapel} ought to have a page — It 
is the most elaborate adoration of the magi in existence — the Florentine portraits 
grand, and it is curious also as repeating the figure of the Ass foreshortened which 
Gozzoli was so proud of at Pisa & which Vasari especially mentions there — but 
not here.'” 


Casa Albizzi.' Contains a most precious fresco by Pietro Perugino — the entomb- 
ment. I have never in any fresco — seen colour equalling it — Titians at Padua are 
poor in comparison.'” 


Casa Altoviti. In the same street, (Borgo degl’Albizzi) very remarkable for the 
portraits of the family — grand pieces of characteristic though grotesque sculpture 
on its exterior'”® 


the authorship of the tabernacle for the monks, see RiJ, 122-23. The “Crucifixion” is presumably 
the fresco of the Deposition by (?school of) Niccolo di Pietro Gerini on the south side of the nave. 


172. The Palazzo Medici, later Riccardi, now the Prefettura, in Via Cavour. It was built by 
Michelozzo di Bartolomeo for Cosimo il Vecchio after 1444. It was the seat of the Medici until 
1540. 


173. The “contemptible stuff of Luca Giordano” is his Apotheosis of the Medici (1680-85), a 
fresco on the ceiling of the Baroque gallery, one of several additions to the building made by the 
Riccardi family. Benozzo Gozzoli’s fresco of the Adoration of the Magi (1459-60) is more 
properly described as a depiction of the Magi and their train as they journey towards Bethlehem. 
The procession winds its way around three sides of the small chapel and includes many portraits 
of members of the Medici family. The foreshortened ass mentioned by Vasari (I, 407) was in 
the fresco of the story of Abraham and Isaac in the Camposanto. Palgrave had indeed given 
considerable space to the Giordano Apotheosis, instancing its “AEsopean” character, Watteau-like 
colouring and “admirable” and “really deceptive” foreshortenings. The Gozzoli frescoes, on the 
other hand, were briefly noticed, thus: “they have the truly national Florentine character which 
we remarked at Pisa, and are so richly adorned with gilding as to resemble the illuminations of 
a missal” (HTN 1842, 548). This was unlikely to satisfy Ruskin, who devoted several pages of 
his Résumé to their description. HTNI 1847 (534) omits all of Palgrave’s remarks on the character 
and merits of the Giordano ceiling, while his notice of the Gozzoli frescoes is substituted by a 
description given in inverted commas and signed “C. W. C.,” followed by a revised version of 
Ruskin’s note in this letter, printed without inverted commas and including an additional reference 
to Gozzoli’s self-portrait, among the “Florentine portraits.” 


174. The Palazzo degli Albizi in Borgo degli Albizi, not mentioned in HTN/ 1842. 


175. Perugino’s fresco of the Pieta with the Virgin and Sts John Baptist and Joseph of Arimathea 
(or Nicodemus) was originally painted (before 1478) on the lateral fagade of S. Pier Maggiore. 
It was transferred to Palazzo degli Albizi in 1785. Ruskin was shown the fresco by the Florentine 
engraver Giovanni Battista Nocchi (RiJ, 120-21). The reference to frescoes by Titian in Padua 
are to those in the Scuola del Santo (1511). Ruskin studied these after leaving Venice in mid- 
October, en route for the Alps and England (see RiJ, 233). Ruskin’s note on the Perugino was 
inserted in HTNI 1847 (537), duly toned down and minus the comparison with Titian: “Casa Albizi 
(Borgo degl’ Albizi) contains a valuable fresco by Perugino, The Entombment; it is remarkable 
for the fineness of its colouring.” 


176. Palazzo Altoviti (or ‘dei Visacci’) is the result of the unification around 1600 of three 


618 PAUL TUCKER 


The Borgo degl’Albizzi is now architecturally & historically the most interesting 
street in Florence.'” 


Casa Buonaroti. The most interesting work here — a battle of the Amazons — bas 
[illegible, cancelled] relief — done by him in his youth is not mentioned.'” 


The Account of the Uffizi is particularly queer — so much so that I have hardly 
courage to set to work upon it. I hope your present editor has got it in better order 
— I will name a few points however — when I can get time'”” — Yours ever very 
truly JRuskin. 


By the bye. You have not mentioned St Simone neither — with the third in impor- 
tance of Cimabues pictures in Florence[,] St Peter enthroned, I dont like it'® 


VI 
[n.p., n.d.'®"] 
My Dear Sir, 


I hastily send you the list of Orcagna subjects, the St* Croce shall come in a day or 
two — you will I know excuse the delay as I am very busy — start on the 2nd of 
next month'* — the plan of Sta Croce is in my book a mere scrawl of the positions 


previously existing palaces. The facade is decorated with 15 marble busts (1600-1604) of 
celebrated Florentines, such as Donato Acciaiuoli and Marsilio Ficino. The palace is not noticed 
in HTNI 1842. The later edition carries a heavily revised and corrected version of Ruskin’s note: 
“Casa Altoviti, in the same street, is remarkable for the portaits of 15 illustrious Florentines, 
sculptured in middle-relief on its exterior. They were executed at the latter end of the 16th 
century.” 


177. An opinion also expressed in the Résumé (Bem. MS 5B, f. 59 verso), but which did not 
find its way into HTNI 1847. 


178. The omission was rectified in HTNIJ 1847 (537), as was Ruskin’s mistaken description of 
the relief’s subject, inspired by Hercules’s battle with the Centaurs. 


179. Ruskin seems not to have done so, unless a later letter with notes on the Uffizi has been 
lost. However, the notes on the Uffizi published in HTN/ 1847 do not bear any relation to the 
Résumé and incorporate a number of quoted passages signed “7. P.” 


180. The picture referred to is a panel (1307) in the church of SS. Simone & Giuda by the 
‘Maestro della S. Cecilia’ (see above). The omission was not rectified in HTNJ 1847: a note in 
pencil in the margin of the letter reads “Not mentioned in any guide.” The other two Florentine 
pictures by ‘Cimabue’, first and second in importance according to Ruskin, are presumably the 
Madonna Rucellai, then in S. Maria Novella and now in the Uffizi, attributed to Duccio, and 
the San Francesco Bardi in Santa Croce, now attributed to the ‘Maestro di Vico |’Abate’. Other 
works by ‘Cimabue’ noticed by Ruskin in the Résumé are the Frontal with St Cecilia inthe Uffizi 
(‘Maestro della S. Cecilia’) and the Madonna di S. Trinita (the only autograph work of the group), 
but neither of these meet with as much approval as the former two. 


181. Postmarked 23 March 1846. 
182. Ruskin returned to Italy, this time with his parents, in the spring of 1846, having completed 





John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 619 


of the chapels: but if you could get an architectural plan of the church, you might 
fit my numbers to it easily.'* 


Yours ever truly & obliged 
JRuskin. 


In front of the shrine,“ are two bas reliefs. Marriage of the Virgin, and annuncia- 
tion, the first exquisite, and like Angelico. At the south west angle, supporting 
column, two grand heads of prophets, at and three virtues, Patientia, Obedientia; 
Jastitia,_Devetie; Fortitudo, Perseverantia. On the south side, The nativity and 
offering of the Kings, the shepherds seen in the distance of the first are most 
characteristic of Orcagna. Between them, Charitas. At the angle, south east; 
Humilitas, Virginitas. On the east side Simeon and Anna with Christ, and another 
subject — as if an annunciation to St Elizabeth. At the angle, Docilitas —(very 
beautiful) Prudentia, Solertia. On north side, Birth of St John; next it, in centre — 
Fides, the least satisfactory of all the heads, then Christ teaching in the temple when 
twelve years old; the story told most marvellously — the {head is broken from the} 
principal figure; hastest and yet its expression of body is all that is needed — some 
small figures leaning forward most earnesly to listen, one, curiously enough playing 
on a Psaltery. The bold perpendicular staircase is characteristic of the art of the time. 


At the angle, Obedientia Justitia, Devotio. There are two heads of prophets also 
at each angle. The angels around the central picture are very characteristic of 
Orcagna. The grand composition behind, (assumption of the Virgin), cannot be seen 
from below — it needs a ladder.'* 


the second volume of Modern Painters over the winter. While in Italy he also completed a revision 
of the first volume, which was published in a third edition the same year. 


183. Ruskin does, however, appear to have supplied Murray with a plan of the east end of S. 
Croce (see Letter VII), from which the one printed in HTNI 1847 was presumably derived. 


184. The whole of this note has been crossed through vertically in pen. 


185. The whole of this passage, supplying the subjects of the sculptures on Andrea di Cione’s 
tabernacle in Orsanmichele (see Letter IV), was inserted, with a few revisions, in H7TNI 1847 
(495). Only a few sentences, generally those expressing aesthetic judgements rather than 
straightforward information, were given within inverted commas and initialled “R.”. Several 
corrections are there made to Ruskin’s description: the names of the virtues are usaully given 
in English; the two subjects on the east side are given as “the presentation in the temple, with 
Simeon and Anna; and the Angel appearing to Joseph, and bidding him flee into Egypt”; that 
on the north side is given as “The Birth of the Virgin”; and the phrase “and yet its expression 
of body is all that is needed” becomes “but the body is full of expression.” 


620 PAUL TUCKER 


Sens, April 15th [1846]'* 


My Dear Sir, 


You must have been surprised at my long delay in sending the enclosed'®’ — but 
I was quite ill when I left town & could see to nothing — & now I have been obliged 
to let my rough notes be copied out such as they were so that there is a quantity of 
useless stuff which you will have to expunge — And also you must observe that as 
I do not care about the monuments in the nave — my sketch is only of the eastern 
chapels & transepts — and I have drawn the chapels too deep — there is a good 
accounting of the choir in the present book — [tear] I have not noticed it — the 
references to the Guide are to a large Guide to the church of Santa Croce — lately 
published <in> Florence.'® 


#4 Perhaps your present editor may not be aware of the little church of St Girolamo 
at Fiesole,'® containing a beautiful Fra Angelico! — (Madonna —& predella 


186. Postmarked Sens sur Yonne, 15 April 1846. 


187. The promised notes onS. Croce, unfortunately lost. HTN 1847 carries a number of lengthy 
quotations initialled “R.” (see XXXVIII, 328-30). 


188. F. Moise, Santa Croce di Firenze. Illustrazione storico-artistica (Firenze, 1845). Presumably 
not the “guide-book with nothing in it” given to Ruskin by James Millingen the archaeologist, 
resident in Florence (see RiJ, 89). The long section of the Résumé devoted to S. Croce also 
includes references to this guide. 


189. Originally the church of the Hieronymite community of the Order of St Jerome of Fiesole, 
which was offically recognized around 1405. The church and convent were built by Michelozzo 
for Cosimo il Vecchio around 1450. The Order was suppressed in 1668 and the church and 
surrounding property passed into the Bardi di Vernio family. In 1798 it was acquired by Cav. 
Pietro Liepoldo Ricasoli, on whose death in 1850 it passed to a grandson, Cav. Ugo de’ Ricasoli. 
The property is now known as Villa S. Girolamo and houses a rest home. HTNI 1847 makes no 
mention of S. Girolamo. 


190. Madonna and Child with Angels and Sts Jerome, Cosmas, Damian, John the Baptist, Francis 
of Assisi and Lawrence, with a predella showing scenes from the life of St Jerome. It is mentioned 
by Angelo M. Bandini (Lettere XII. Della citta di Fiesole [Siena, 1800], 136), who attributes it 
to Ghirlandaio, and subsequently by Fantozzi (752: ‘Angelico’), Lindsay (Christian Art [1847] 
2nd ed. 1885, 251n; a pupil of Fra Angelico’s), the editor of the 1848 Le Monnier edition of 
Vasari (IV, 31n: Angelico), Crowe & Cavalcaselle (New History of Painting [1864-66], I, 557n, 
584n; not Angelico), and Rio (De !’art chrétien [Paris, 1864-67] II, 354; Angelico). Despite the 
fact that Crowe and Cavalcaselle in 1864 describe the painting as “in San Girolamo of Fiesole,” 
it had certainly been removed from the church before this date, since it was already in the 
Campana collection (No. 353) in Rome (not in the Vatican, as stated by Rio) in 1859 (see 
Cavalcaselle’s annotated copy of the undated catalogue of the collection in the Biblioteca Marciana, 
Venice [Cod. It. IV 2035]). The Campana collection was shortly afterwards sold to the Louvre, 
and the S. Girolamo altarpiece entered the museum in 1863 (G. Lafenestre & E. Richtenberger, 
Le Musée National du Louvre [Paris, 1897], No. 1320; L. Hautecoeur, Musée nationale du 














John Ruskin’s Letters to John Murray 621 


of small figures) and a St Jerome of D. Ghirlandaio'’®' — (nearly effaced however, 
this last) 


Believe me, my dear Sir 


Yours ever very sincerely 


JRuskin. 


Louvre. Catalogue des peintures exposées dans les galeries. II. Ecole italienne et école espagnole 
[Paris, 1926], No. 1294C). Despite its describing this particular painting as inS. Girolamo, Crowe 
& Cavalcaselle’s New History also carries a note which links “the pictures of the late Campana 
collection now in Paris, falsely assigned to Angelico” with the manner of Andrea da Firenze (I, 
557n). The attribution to Angelico was also rejected by the Louvre and for a short while the 
painting was catalogued as a Benozzo Gozzoli (Lafenestre & Richtenberger), before being re- 
classed as “Ecole de Fra Angelico” (Hautecoeur). It is reproduced by L. Pillion (“La légende 
de Saint Jérome d’aprés quelques peintures italiennes du XVe siécle au Musée du Louvre,” Gazette 
des Beaux-Arts [1908], 303-18) and described by Martin Davies (Earlier Italian Schools, 121) 
as being on deposit in Chartres. I have been unable to locate the painting in the current catalogue 
of the Louvre. It is not mentioned in HTNI 1847. Bembridge (cat. 5) has a watercolour of some 
angels’ heads, catalogued as by Ruskin’s Venetian copyist Angelo Alessandri and after Gozzoli, 
which I have now been able to identify as a copy of a portion of this altarpiece. The attribution 
of this copy to Alessandri is doubtful, since this artist is not known to have visited Paris. Bought 
by J.H. Whitehouse for the collection, its provenance is uncertain. 


191. The altarpiece with St Jerome in Penitence, Sts Damasus, Eusebius, Paula and Eustochium 
and Donors (and predella with episodes from the life of St Jerome), now attributed to Francesco 
Botticini (c. 1446-97) and in the National Gallery, London (227). The attribution to Ghirlandaio 
may have been due to confusion with the ‘Angelico’ in the same church, which Bandini had stated 
to be by Ghirlandaio (see above). In 1852 the picture was removed from the church to Florence 
by the Ricasoli family, from whom it was bought by the National Gallery in 1855. It was then 
ascribed by Charles Eastlake to Cosimo Rosselli, after which it remained un-attributed for a 
period, until becoming part of the group “called now Botticini” (see M. Davies, Earlier Italian 
Schools, 119- 22). The painting is not mentioned in HTNI 1847 


ENRIC Bou 





A proposito de las cartas de viaje 
de Pedro Salinas: 


Le monde, monotone et petit, aujourd’hui, 
Hier, demain, toujours, nous fait voir notre image: 
Une oasis d’horreur dans un désert d’ennui! 
Charles Baudelaire 


Pedro Salinas fue un maravilloso catador de campos y urbes. 
La residencia en un lugar no le impedia conocerlo como si lo 
descubriese en un viaje. 

Jorge Guillén 


Pedro Salinas nacié en Madrid en 1891. El viaje fue para él una especie de 
necesidad, ya que desde fecha temprana viaj6 con regularidad por motivos familiares. 
En 1911 inicié un noviazgo con Margarita Bonmati, la hija de unos espafioles 
residentes en Argel, que pasaban los veranos entre Santa Pola y Altet (Alicante). 
Luego, en posteriores veraneos, repartiria su tiempo entre ese lugar y Maison Carrée, 
cerca de Argel. Mas tarde se desplazé por razones profesionales. Fue lector en 
La Sorbona y vivié en Paris entre 1914 y 1917; o efectué miltiples visitas a centros 
docentes espafioles (Burgos, Murcia, Barcelona, etc.) y europeos (Cambridge, 
Hamburgo, Venecia, etc.) como conferenciante invitado. Luego otras actividades, 
tanto literarias como académicas y administrativas, le obligaron a pasar temporadas 
alejado de su familia, en especial en las épocas en que ejercié de secretario de la 
Universidad Internacional de Santander. Las cartas que Pedro Salinas escribi6 
durante sus viajes, escritas entre 1912 y 1951, reflejan de forma exquisita la 
fascinaciOn de este escritor por los viajes y sus resultados: el conocimiento de nuevas 
gentes y formas de vida, la visita de paisajes y ciudades, el embelesamiento con 
la ceremonia misma del traslado. Los viajes constituyeron una de las actividades 
regulares del quehacer vital de Pedro Salinas. Surgieron al compas de una vida 
intensa como profesor y critico literario, le sirvieron como acicate en su proceso 
creativo y se fundieron con su destino al permanecer en el exilio a partir de 1936. 

Del mismo modo que Roland Barthes distinguié entre el “écrivain” y el 
“écrivant”, podria distinguirse entre el “viajero” y el “viajante”. Si el viajante 


1. Préximamente la Editorial Pretextos de Valencia, Espafia, publicar4é una extensa 
seleccién de las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas. 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 





Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 623 


actia de forma mecAnica, el viajero lo hace con cierto arte y una atenci6n particular 
a los detalles del viaje. En Salinas la vocacién del viajero se combina con la del 
escritor, y ello se traduce en la calidad de escritura y observacién en sus cartas 
de viaje. Se amplia asi el registro del escritor y se acentia una de sus voces 
caracteristicas. Guardamos en nuestra memoria una gran variedad de voces y 
registros de Pedro Salinas. Después de leer sus poemas y ensayos, las narraciones 
y el teatro, y ultimamente las cartas, hay una voz que destaca con especial fuerza, 
porque es comin a todas esas modalidades de escritura. Es la del curioso que con 
ojo 4vido observa, y con pluma fiel sabe registrar lo que caza ante el espectaculo 
de la realidad siempre sorprendente. Asi sucede en su poesia, tan atenta a lo 
episddico, o en las narraciones y en los ensayos, ricos en anécdotas sabrosas que 
cumplen la metéfora de un argumento (la sorpresa de quien es interrumpido en la 
lectura de una carta, las descripciones de personas y sucesos, etc.). Esen las cartas, 
y en especial en las cartas de viaje, donde se cumple otra afirmacién guilleniana: 
“La atencién del transetinte se convertia en posesién de profundidad” (32). En 
efecto, la carta, que en muchos casos actiia como una especie de diario — compartido 
— del artista sirve como banco de pruebas para el escritor’. Asi, asoman en este 
epistolario frases y pensamientos que después encontrarian una plasmacién mas 
efectiva en el libro terminado: versiones de poemas de Todo mds claro, el interés 
primerizo por Rubén Dario. 

Pedro Salinas fue un gran amante de la literatura epistolar, como practicante 
de la misma’ y como teérico. En la “Defensa de la carta misiva”, subray6 la 
facilidad del género para suscitar la intimidad. Segun él, la carta se transforma 
en un espacio de la convivencia intima, puesto que las cartas, como las miradas, 
son sdlo para dos: “Es la carta pura. Privada, pero no solitaria, compartida, 
convivida” (233). Quiza por ello en su caso las cartas son vehiculo de la amistad 
y se convierten en multiplicadoras de atenciones. “La atencién de Salinas — escribié 
su amigo Jorge Guillén — se manifestaba en ’atenciones’, gentilisimo plural 
castellano. Curiosidad, juego, conciencia, servicio: muchas fuentes formaban 


2. Solita Salinas indic6é la semejanza con un diario de las primeras cartas escritas a Margarita. 
Acerca de las mismas, Andrés Soria Olmedo ha escrito con acierto: “Diario encarta 0 verso, 
lo épico se dibuja como una categoria inmediata de la vida, como una categoria del espiritu 
previa a su expresiOn escrita y por lo tanto capaz de plasmarse en cualquier forma” (85). 


3. Tenemos innumerables testimonios de la riqueza de su epistolario: Damaso Alonso, 
Guillermo de Torre, Jorge Guillén utilizaron a conciencia en articulos las cartas que recibieron 
de Salinas. Como dijo de Torre se impone una necesidad: “Algtin dia, un curador tan devoto 
de las imagenes literarias y amicales como Juan Guerrero, podra realizar su proyecto de 
publicar el epistolario saliniano. Completar la fisonomia del conferencista y del conversador 
cautivantes” (15). Guillén, ya en 1952, Solita Salinas en 1984, y Andrés Soria Olmedo en 
1992, nos han proporcionado muestra excelentes de la riqueza del mismo. Gracias al 
epistolario fue posible reconstruir una “autobiografia” de Salinas: Enric Bou y Andrés Soria 
Olmedo, “Pedro Salinas. Cartografia de una vida”, 1992. 


624 ENRIC BOU 


aquellos caudales de atencién.” (33) Asi podriamos aludir a una de las constantes 
mas fecundas del epistolario: mantener un contacto. 

Enel caso concreto de las cartas de viaje, la necesidad de eliminar la distancia 
es mas urgente y la carta sirve de vehiculo de uni6n, y a veces desde la escritura 
se prevee un determinado ceremonial de la lectura: “Esta carta va a ser para los 
tres juntos, carta de familia. El tema es mds bien para los nifios, pero como quiero 
juntaros a los tres, te la mando a ti, ti se la lees, y asi os reunis en mi carta.” 
Porque, como queria Salinas, la carta “aporta otra suerte de relacién: un entenderse 
sin Oirse, un quererse sin tactos, un mirarse sin presencia, en los trasuntos de la 
persona que llamamos, recuerdo, imagen, alma” (228). Por otra parte, lo intenso 
de la experiencia se traduce en un esfuerzo autoreflexivo y, de este modo, las cartas 
estan atentas a la propia escritura: “Algo tiene que salir mal hecho cuando yo 
escribo. A mano soi las letras las que salen contorsionadas. A mAquina son las 
palabras, porque equivoco en ellas el orden de las letras. Todo es falta de 
concordancia entre mi velocidad personal, psiquica, siempre presurosa, lanzada, 
ansiosa y las limitaciones materiales de maquina o pluma.” Lo especifico de la 
carta de viaje es la capacidad de captar impresiones fugaces acerca de nuevos 
mundos. “Son sefias de lo visto”, dice el propio Salinas en una misiva de 1940. 
La novedad inherente en la experiencia del viaje provoca otro gesto caracteristico: 
el recurso a la comparacién con el mundo abandonado. 


LA CARTA DE VIAJE 


Los relatos de viajes tienen una forma particular que, como pasa en otros casos 
de la literatura autobiogrdfica, es producto de la contaminaci6n de otros subgéneros: 
son cartas (como éstas de Pedro Salinas) escritas durante expediciones, anotaciones 
de un diario (como en el caso de Walter Benjamin viajando a Moscu), articulos 
periodisticos (0 “encuestas”, “reportajes”, como los que escribia Josep Pla), 
derivaciones del ensayo, 0 directamente, son un capitulo de unas memorias, como 
ha hecho Julian Marias. 

La aventura del viaje se caracteriza por su capacidad de generar necesidad y 
sentido. Es como una isla en la vida que determina el inicio y el final de acuerdo 
con unas normas propias. El viaje tiene un inicio y un final definidos; y a pesar 
del cardcter accidental, es decir de la extra-territorialidad respecto a la continuidad 
de la vida, el evento resulta conectado con el cardcter y la identidad de quién lo 
vive, de su protagonista. Y esto sucede “in einem weitesten, die rationaleren 
Lebensreihen tibergreifenden Sinne und in einer geheimnisvollen Notwendigkeit 
zusammenhangt” (16) [“en un sentido amplio, trascendiendo, por una necesidad 
misteriosa, la estrechez de los aspectos més racionales de la vida”]. Un viaje, o 
una aventura, forman parte de nuestra existencia, pero al mismo tiempo sucede 
fuera de la monotonia de la vida. Georg Simmel destaca la existencia de una afinidad 
entre el aventurero y el artista. Ambos extraen consecuencias de la experiencia 
percibida, separdndola de todo lo demas y dAndole una forma autosuficiente, definida 





Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 625 


internamente. Ademiéas, el viajero vacila en su aventura: ve lo nuevo con ojos 
acostumbrados a otras realidades y no puede sino medirlo segtin su experiencia 
anterior. De modo que duda entre la sorpresa ante lo exdtico y el recuerdo de lo 
familiar, el deseo de escapar y el sentirse preso de sus propias limitaciones 
culturales. El viaje le sirvié a Salinas para hacer hincapié en esa contradiccién 
intima que arrastr6 a lo largo de su vida. Es la oscilacié6n — que ha indicado Javier 
Varela — “entre el si y el no al mundo nuevo, urbano, burgués, racionalista. Entre 
la vida multiforme, con sus valores y ritmos no cuantificables, y la raz6n discursiva 
que impera en la naturaleza mediante los instrumentos” (161). 

Como reza el verso memorable de Cavafis, “La ciudad, alla a dénde ti vayas, 
ira contigo”. Al viajar cambiamos por fuerza de costumbres, comemos otros 
manjares y arrastramos con nosotros las limitaciones y prejuicios que influyen en 
nuestra percepcién de lo (des)conocido. En los viajes Ilevamos con nosotros lo 
mas intimo, y este yo solapado se esplaya en comentarios y apreciaciones que tienen 
poco de observacién fria y desinteresada, y mucho de opinion, ejercicio de la 
comparaci6n entre lo que dejamos atrds y lo nuevo que se presenta ante nosotros. 
A menudo el libro de viajes sirve para hacer un retrato sutil de la propia sociedad 
desde una perspectiva lejana, aprovechando al mismo tiempo la deformacién que 
proponen realidades tan distintas. Dos ejemplos clasicos lo confirman: las Lettres 
persanes de Montesquieu 0 el Candide de Voltaire. Libros de filésofo que analizan 
en profundidad la propia sociedad reflejada en el espejo imaginario y aparentemente 
neutro de los problemas de unas civilizaciones primitivas. El observar genera la 
deduccién y de ésta derivan las teorias. Salinas es rico en ellas. Establece, por 
ejemplo, una teoria del turismo. Tiene éste “tres grados”: “ver” (sin voluntad); 
“mirar” (hay eleccién y actividad); “contemplar” (se pone en la vista la voluntad 
de penetrarlo con el alma, y asi va uno apoderdndose de ello). O, también, un 
“sabio apotegma” acerca del turista fot6grafo: “La actitud del turista hacia los 
paisajes es la misma que la del cazador hacia la fauna: ver, apuntar, disparar y 
seguir hasta la pr6xima presa. Supongo que luego, al volver a casa, veran en foto, 
lo que no pudieron ver en realidad porque se les pas6 el tiempo en hacer fotos. 
jTécnica de turista!”. 

De natural observador y de educacién racionalista, Salinas siempre busca el 
sentido de los paisajes naturales 0 urbanos: “Esas cosas inmensas me dicen algo, 
si, pero no se me formula en la conciencia su mensaje, comprendes, de modo 
organizado y comunicable. Espero. Quiz4s algun dia vea lo que ayer miré, hecho 
forma expresiva.” Escribe algo parecido al observar Los Angeles: “Escritura sin 
sentido, 0 con sentido oculto y sin cifra. La mira uno, la remira buscando lo que 
dice. Y luego a la mafiana, todo borrado. Todo envuelto en luz de plata, en alegria 
placida, sin signos. De dia la ciudad ya parece que no quiere decir nada. Habla, 
de noche, con sus luces, y luego se calla, en su dicha diurna.” 

Pero no s6lo retrata una sociedad. Establece también un autorretrato. Las 
cartas de viaje ponen en evidencia las obsesiones personales. El viajero prepara 


626 ENRIC BOU 


el equipaje, calcula itinerarios y horarios, sospesa las escalas, los desvios necesarios. 
La obsesi6n tan saliniana por planificar al minuto los detalles mAs minimos del viaje 
aparece en esta correspondencia en la carta en que proyecta la primera visita a Argel, 
enel periodo 1912-13, o en cartas de 1937 y de 1949, cuando viajé a Europa desde 
Estados Unidos. Paralelamente aflora su conocida obsesién por los museos. En 
1914 escribia: “Si vieras, Margarita, qué ganas tengo de que pases dos 0 tres meses 
en el Prado 0 en el Louvre. En cuesti6n de pintura, ver es lo primero. Un mes 
de museo vale mds que un afio de libros.” Y en mayo de 1949 decide rehacer un 
itinerario para poder visitar un museo en Cleveland. Asi puede escribir esa 
memorable teoria del museo y su visita. En 1930 imagina un paisaje de égloga 
que ve en Colombia en 1947. Poco a poco se apodera de él ese gesto caracteristico 
del exiliado de comparar lo que dej6 atras con lo que tiene ahora. Opinar sobre 
Norteamérica resulta la actividad ultima del viajero Pedro Salinas. Porque el viaje 
lleva su fecha inscrita, no slo en el lugar y el espacio, sino en los gestos de sorpresa 
que en el viajero producen determinados detalles, que a nosotros ya no nos 
sorprenden. 


ENTRADA EN AMERICA 


Los viajes de Salinas se reducen a tres destinos: expediciones breves por Espajfia 
y Europa antes de 1936. Viajes por América, los EE.UU. y la América hispana 
desde 1936 hasta su muerte, en 1951. Por raz6n del largo exilio Salinas vivié en 
un estado mental de viajero permanente. El tercer destino incluye las estancias 
més largas, de residencia, en Paris, Wellesley, Baltimore, Puerto Rico, Los Angeles, 
Berkeley. Al emplearse aqui el término “viaje” en un sentido amplio, se incluyen 
cartas acerca del entorno inmediato en las que destaca todavia la curiosidad innata, 
mas propia del viajero. Las cartas escritas desde estadias mds largas complementan 
las del peregrinaje itinerante. 

El gran tema de este epistolario, por suinsistencia y amplitud, es el del impacto 
que tuvo en él el continente americano*. Viajar a América, vivir en el Nuevo 
Mundo, fue la experiencia que marcé los ultimos quince afios de la vida de Pedro 
Salinas y que dejé una huella precisa en la obra y en las cartas. Las circunstancias, 
tragicas, en que se produjo ese conocimiento y la zona que le deparé la suerte para 
su desembarco, influyeron sin duda en sus reacciones y en el incémodo y largo 
proceso de adaptacién. Lo conocemos con detalle gracias a la correspondencia 
que mantuvo con familiares y amigos. 

Las cartas que Salinas escribid en América pueden agruparse en dos grandes 
series: las que escribe a su circulo intimo, en momentos de “expedicién”, para 
informar sobre lo nuevo que va conociendo; y las cartas que escribe para mantenerse 


4. Ese fue el tema de su Ultima conferencia, pronunciada en Wellesley College en abril de 
1951, “Deuda de un poeta”, Ensayos completos, Ill, 434-447. 








Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 627 


en contacto con los amigos. Las primeras se articulan como auténticos diarios 0 
libros de viaje, anotaciones directas de la exploraci6n; las segundas est4n escritas 
desde el reposo y tienen un caracter mAs reflexivo. Pero ambas series establecen 
la cronologia exacta y los motivos velados de una decepcién. Después de la natural 
sorpresa, se analiza el descubrimiento con detalle, se compara con lo que dejo atras, 
con otras realidades vecinas (la América hispana) y se va produciendo el enfriamien- 
to. Salinas, cronista fiel, asi lo anot6 en su correspondencia. 

A partir de la “curiosidad y simpatia”, o su condicién de “entusiasta de 
América”, Salinas se nos presenta como un personaje intrépido, que se siente atraido 
con fuerza por la aventura de un “pais por el que siento una vivisima curiosidad 
y simpatia”. Después de un entusiasmo inicial, se sinti6 alienado, cada vez mds 
distante de una realidad inhéspita porque la consideraba superficial. Al principio 
fue como un juego: “Yo observo todo esto como un salvaje, me divierte a ratos, 
y a ratos, me aburre, y me encuentro un poco solo.” Claro que estaba en un 
ambiente singular, una universidad de mujeres: “El hombre aqui es una excepcién 
rarisima, como el vestigio de una especie medio desaparecida” , escribe no sin 
humor’. Pero al cabo de pocos meses empez6 el rechazo: decide escribir una “Oda 
contra la primavera”, para combatir “este ambiente convencional y rutinario de 
Wellesley”. El epistolario nos permite observar en la intimidad a un Salinas que 
se enfrenta con nuevas costumbres. Se muestra poco amigo de la confraternizacion 
a que conducen los trenes nocturnos norteamericanos. Le preocupa el peso, lo 
frugales que son las comidas en Norteamérica, en una obsesi6n casi busconiana: 
“No se comprende c6mo pueden trabajar lo mucho que hay que trabajar aqui y 
nutrirse con escasez tan milagrosa.” O topamos también con un Salinas asustado 
ante las complejidades de la vida doméstica: se niega a hacerse la cama, a prepararse 
un café. Llegado al primer verano ya puede afirmar: “si algo sale nuevo en mi 
de esta tierra, sera por reacci6én, por contraste, no por adhesién”. En sus viajes 
en tren cruzando el Midwest reacciona ante el paisaje: 


Y ésta es una Castilla que no puede engafiar, sin alma, sin iglesias, sin castillos. 
Paisaje sin historia, simplemente pobre. Apenas poblado, muy de lejos en lejos 
hay unas casuchas de madera, sucias, como de gitanos. Y por los caminos, blancos 
como los castellanos, el eterno auto, la marca de América. 


Diez afios mds tarde, lo menos americano es el criterio base para establecer la 
autenticidad y belleza de un lugar: “tiene para mi un encanto inmenso el volver 
a respirar este provincianismo. Popaydn es quiza lo mds remoto de lo yanqui, que 
he visto, es decir lo mas auténtico.” Enel momento de acatar su destino reconocié 
la gran distancia que sentia entre Europa y Norteamérica: “Viviremos aqui bien, 
lo espero, pero siempre en el fondo de mi habrd, creo, una nostalgia por algo 


5. Ver Elena Gascon Vera, “Hegemonia y diferencia: Pedro Salinas en Wellesley College”, 
33-47. 


628 ENRIC BOU 


indefinible: la densidad, la antigiiedad, de lo humano”. Se enfrenta con una 
dimensi6n de la otredad: “los miro, (jyo, pobre de mi, el extranjero, el extrafiado!) 
como aextranjeros.” Extranjero, extrafiado, asi es su reaccién ante Norteamérica, 
de sorpresa ante las maravillas del ingenio mecdnico, de decepcién ante la poca 
densidad espiritual. 

La reacci6n ante lo norteamericano le empujé casi por fuerza a interesarse por 
lo hispano. Y aqui también hay un progreso, de sentido opuesto, desde la 
indiferencia al — casi — fervor. En 1940 Salinas analizaba la problematica de las 
relaciones entre Espafia y la América hispana en términos més bien pesimistas: 


{Qué tendra el hispanoamericanismo que acarrea tras de si las frases de cajén y 
los lugares comunes? Yo pienso honradamente en ello y no lo entiendo. Porque 
la verdad es que lo hispanoamericano es una realidad, algo cierto y resistente en 
el tiempo. Y no obstante apenas comienzan los discursos se despefia por la vertiente 
de lo convencional. Sera que no hemos dado con la verdad de esa realidad? 


Pero pronto cambié de opinién. Influyeron dos visitas breves a México, una estancia 
de tres afios en Puerto Rico la visita a Cuba y la Republica Dominicana y un largo 
viaje por Colombia, Ecuador y Peré. En muchas de esas cartas asoma su sorpresa 
ante la unidad y diversidad en la presencia de lo hispano en los paises de Sudamérica 
que visita, y se entretiene en establecer las razones para la unidad subterrdnea. 
Con el tiempo desarroll6 una nueva mirada, que intenta explicar el resultado de 
la experiencia colonialista bajo nueva luz, ahora que, a través de lo que observa 
puede enriquecerse y recuperar su propio pasado. Visitar México fue una revelaci6n. 
En las pocas cartas que se han conservado de esa visita se nota el impacto profundo 
de la Nueva Espafia. Descubre el valor vago, sugestivo, de los nombres antiguos 
que se asocian a nuevas realidades, en una maniobra que califica de proustiana: 
“Y tengo la sensacién de haber abierto un caja misteriosa de la vida atras y de verme 
en un sitio donde he vivido y donde no he vivido, que me es familiar y nuevo a 
la vez.” En especial, valora el idioma: “La verdad es que para mi no hay politica 
ni hay nacionalismo: hay s6lo, lengua.” Afios mds tarde, en Colombia, le fascina 
el impacto de la muerte de Manolete, el fervor que despiertan sus conferencias, 
el contraste entre el vivir literariamente de inc6gnito en los Estados Unidos, y “aqui, 
de pronto, esta Iluvia de atenciones, de alabanzas, muy provinciana, claro, pero 
tan distinta.” Es la reaccién del espafiol trasterrado que se sorprende ante lo 
profundo de la huella de sus antepasados en el Nuevo Mundo: 


Pero tanto en los tejidos como en los cacharros, se revela una concepcién del mundo 
y de la vida magica, extrafia, infinitamente lejana de nosotros. [...] Sali 
transtornado, de la inmersi6n en ese mundo. Figtirate, pasar de alli, dos horas 
después, a Garcilaso, el Renacimiento, al mundo de las claridades, de las formas 
puras, de la eliminacién de todo lo monstruoso por fuerza del espiritu ordenador. 
Tremendo viaje que yo hice, ayer. Pero estas gentes tienen los dos mundos dentro, 
y no hay duda de que se debaten del uno al otro tragicamente. Los voy conociendo 
mejor, y con mas respeto. 


Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 629 


Todo ello le conduce a valorar con mds profundidad la relacién entre los dos 
mundos. Es aguda la manera como percibe los indicios de independencia a partir 
del arte religioso: 


Esa influencia de lo americano, introducida por el artesano, por el tallista indio, 
fuera de la voluntad del maestro de obras espafiol, es lo mas tipico de este arte 
de por aqui. Se ve ya un anhelo de independencia, una afirmacién de su modo 
de ser, que se asoma, y se insinta, en los detalles, ya que lo principal esta regido 
y dirigido por otros, por los amos, los conquistadores. [...] Es el arte el que 
primero lo expresa, con su voz misteriosa, que no percibian o no entendian los 
dominadores. La libertad se busca siempre sus salidas. 


El resultado casi l6gico de tanto viaje y deambular por realidades extrafias 0 
que, a lo sumo, le recuerdan su lugar de origen es una proclamacion de fidelidad 
a los origenes, que se traduce en una afioranza del Mediterraneo. Observando el 
Pacifico en California en 1939 puede escribir: “Y ya sabes lo que es eso para mi: 
el Mediterraneo. Me declaro ciudadano del Mediterraneo. Claro es que a este 
falso Mediterraneo le falta algo: la antiguedad de las cosas”. Salinas aprende poco 
a poco a dibujar un paisaje idealizado de lo perdido, que surge ante las evocaciones 
de las visitas: “esos patios con jardines, paredes encaladas, jazmin, palmeras, que 
me recuerdan nuestro mundo: desde Alicante a Sevilla, por Argel, donde nos 
siguieron siempre esas flores, esos 4rboles, esos muros blancos.” A la larga, estos 
viajes generan otra obsesi6n, la de no integrarse en el Nuevo Mundo y reconocer 
a cada paso las formas de su vida anterior. Por ello quiere contemplar el mar desde 
un café, se alegra de hablar a gritos en una tertulia, reconoce con alegria voces 
y gestos, colores, en las calles de México o Colombia. Y en las cartas de su viaje 
a Italia en 1949, expresa una admiraci6n sin reservas. 


MUNDO MODERNO 


Salinas fue un gran enamorado de la mdquina y de las ciudades. Simbolos poderosos 
de la modernidad. La estancia en Paris ya le sirvié para fijarse en las distancias 
entre Francia y Espajia y destacar los perfiles de lo moderno. Le sorprendié la 
fusi6n de pasado y presente: “Es como todo Paris, tradicié6n y modernidad, raiz 
y hoja fresca”. En una carta de 1935, de resabios futuristas, evocé un viaje nocturno 
en automévil. Y también pudo hacer una especie de apologia de la vida en las 
ciudades. Las diferencias y semejanzas entre un paseo por el Madrid de 1913, 
y otro por el New York de 1936 (se encuentra a gusto en una, asustado en la otra) 
desde un tranvia o la imperial de un autobis, observatorios privilegiados del vivir 
urbano, nos hablan de la pervivencia de unos intereses, y de su evoluci6n. Llegar 
a Nueva York en 1936 le produjo una impresi6n terrible: “La ciudad me desconcierta 
enormemente. Se pasa de un enorme lirismo de la materia bruta, a una rudeza 
de la materia bruta.” La compara con un motor de explosién: “se me antoja asi: 
procede por estallidos, por sacudidas”. Es la sorpresa ante maneras de organizacién 
de la vida en lo que Josep Pla y Julio Camba Ilamaban la ciudad automatica. Pero 


630 ENRIC Bou 


pronto se dio cuenta que era preferible ese caos barroco a la vida apacible en exceso, 
fundamentada en el alejamiento humano, de la suburbia norteamericana. 

Llegado un momento la distancia entre las diferencias de formas de vida se 
mezclan con la edad, y adopta actitudes criticas con mds frecuencia. De visita en 
Los Angeles se sorprende ante la cantidad de mujeres que llevan pantalones (“especie 
de sexo intermedio”) y de que todos los estudiantes vayan en mangas de camisa. 
Mas tarde estara orgulloso de su condicién de persona en la que puede reconocer 
“al ser antiguo, al hombre eterno y no al maniqui de modas contempordneo.” De 
ello deriva un rechazo frontal de las formas de vida norteamericanas. Se concentra 
en lo humanista: 


Encuentro a la vida americana cada dia mas apatica, mas rutinaria, mas falta de 
viveza y brio. Me hacen el efecto de seres a quienes les han dado cuerda, como 
amufecos mecanicos y no saben hacer mAs que los movimientos de sus respectivas 
maquinarias: unos a mover los brazos, otros a despegar los labios sonriendo. 


O establece una teoria acerca de la uniformidad del pafs, distinta de la variedad 
idealizada de Europa: 


Yo creo que son dos los factores que han planchado, por decirlo asi, a América. 
(Me hace el efecto de un pais planchado, sin desniveles, Ilano, plano, igual.) Uno 
la educaci6n, otro el comercio e industria. Los fabricantes monopolizan la 
fabricacién de un producto y lo colocan en todo el pais. Y los Colleges y 
Universidades fabrican graduados del mismo tipo, en todas partes. 


En sus viajes aprecia la diferencia entre maneras de observar, que considera 
intrinsecas de las idiosincrasias: “Paisajes de ventanilla. Lo que a mi me gusta 
mas, ese lento infiltrarse del paisaje en uno, por los ojos, poco a poco, mirdndole 
a gusto, sin prisa, y cOmodo es casi un imposible. Hacen los americanos con el 
paisaje lo que con la bebida: se beben todo el vaso de un trago, y a otra cosa. Y 
mi gusto es dejarme penetrar, muy despacio, por las formas y los colores que tengo 
ante los ojos.” En otra ocasién un concierto nocturno le sugiere una imagen original 
como resumen del contraste que presenta la realidad norteamericana: “ésto es lo 
hermoso de América, esos tres pisos: lo natural, el grillo, la aspiraci6n al arte, 
la musica, y la maquina, el avidn. Te mando mi American Celestial Sandwich. 
jLo quieres dar un bocadito?” 

Las nuevas realidades, el choque con lo desconocido presente en el viaje, 
imponen su ley en la lengua del escritor. Salinas vivia en una situaci6n especial. 
Sentia que el “idioma es al fin y al cabo, la esencia de un pais, en mi memoria”. 
Se ve obligado a recurrir a neologismos 0 a construir imAgenes sugerentes. Nueva 
York le hace disfrutar de “terribles vaivenes de la vista”. Visitar un museo se 
convierte en el “mureo”: “Por las mafianas fbamos de Mureo (palabrita que te 
propongo, estilo Joyce, hija de Museo y bureo)”. O la monotonia de la vida en 
un pueblo pequefio le parece una “vida como de relojeria sosa”. Un viaje en avion 
le sugiere una inversiOn: “parece el suelo una verdadera feria terrenal, una fiesta 


Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 631 


callada, expresada toda en colores palpitantes, como las estrellas. j|Qué impresi6n 
de ’cielo al revés’!”. Contemplando un paisaje urbano le parece que los edificios 
tienen la “mania de ‘echar para arriba’ y rascacielear” . Sucede lo que ha escrito 
Andrés Soria Olmedo, “Salinas prefiere recurrir a los cambios de registro: pasa 
del lenguaje coloquial al lenguaje requintado, de lo humoristico e ingenioso a la 
introspeccién o la expansion lirica” (15). El vaivén estilistico se acentia ante las 
exigencias expresivas del viaje. También asevera su sorpresa ante las fusiones 
lingtifsticas. Le llaman la atencién nombres pintorescos, como el de un restaurante 
californiano, “La Venta Inn”. 

Asimismo, se abren las puertas a las prosas con acento literario. Leemos 
auténticos poemas en prosa, reflexiones intimas de alcance filosé6fico, contrapunteadas 
por jugosos comentarios de época que pueden hacernos sonreir, como en su 
experiencia automobilistica nocturna de los afios 30. También en descripciones 
en las que prima lo cromatico. El Grand Canyon lo ve en los siguientes términos: 


Esta tarde me entretenija en contar las colores: gris, hueso, marfil, ocre, pardo, 
gris, rosa, rojo, violeta. Pero no son solo, los colores, son las formas, las masas: 
antes que los asirios, antes que los egipcios, que los mayas, todo lo grandioso estaba 
sonado por la tierra, aqui. Es la geologia hecha suefios. Es entre Miguel Angel, 
por lo convulso y Goya por lo fantastico. Y todo deshumanizado, sin traza de 
vida, sin posibilidad absoluta de vida, condenado a la esterilidad para siempre, 
como una especie de eternidad que se basta a si misma. 


O puede ver en términos estéticos, inscribiendo a Tchaikovski y a Baudelaire, los 
movimientos de la niebla que contempla en la bahia de San Francisco. 

Las cartas de Salinas trazan una geografia certera de destinos y amistades, de 
aficiones y afectos. Francia y Estados Unidos por destino académico, Espaiia e 
Iberoamérica por el destino de la gente de su 4mbito. Pero el epistolario de un 
gran escritor no se limita a eso. Es también el reflejo, a veces directo, otras inverso, 
de una pasi6n por la escritura que le somueve en todos los actos de su vida. La 
voz que respira en la escritura epistolar de Pedro Salinas, resulta una muestra 
excelente de las dimensiones colosales de sus “deudas” afectivas con los amigos 
(o como decia Guillén, las “atenciones”), pero también una prueba mas de su 
integridad como escritor. La carta es siempre un documento intimo, que busca 
un destinatario y salvaguarda ese caracter — “su caracter especifico y su razén de 
lectura”, decia el propio Salinas — a pesar de las ediciones publicas. El conocimien- 
to de estas cartas de viaje no presentan una imagen nueva del escritor, sino que 
confirman de forma més acerada la ambivalencia y la duda del devoto escéptico 
ante el espectaculo de la modernidad. Decia Estrab6n, un viajero de la Grecia 
clasica, que “el ge6grafo tiene que ser fil6sofo, y debe ocuparse en la investigaci6n 
del arte de la vida, es decir, en la felicidad.” Asif este pasajero, observador del 
vivir absurdo, goloso devorador visual de las maravillas a su paso, convirti6 el 
mundo en un museo y supo encerrarlo entre las cuatro esquinas de un marco, las 
cartas de viaje. En ellas se cumple el destino de todo viajero: reencontrarse a si 


632 ENRIC BOU 


mismo a través de lo que ve, y darse cuenta de la grandeza de sus limitaciones y 
contradicciones. 
Wellesley College 


OBRAS CITADAS 


Blanchot, Maurice, “Le Journal intime et le récit” in Le Livre a venir. Paris: Gallimard, 
1959, pp. 271-279. 

Bou, Enric, “Escritura y voz: las cartas de Pedro Salinas”, Revista de Occidente, 126 (1991): 
13-43. 

Gascon-Vera, Elena, “Hegemonia y diferencia: Pedro Salinas en Wellesley College”, Signo 
y memonia: Ensayos sobre Pedro Salinas, ed. Enric Bou y Elena Gasc6n-Vera. Madrid: 
Pliegos, 1993, pp. 33-50. 

Guillén, Jorge, “Elogio de Pedro Salinas” in Pedro Salinas, ed. A. Debicki. Madrid: Editorial 
Taurus, 1976, pp. 25-33. 

Salinas, Pedro, “Defensa de la carta misiva y la correspondencia epistolar”, El Defensor. 
Ensayos completos II. Madrid: Taurus, 1983. 

———, Cartas de amor a Margarita, ed. Soledad Salinas de Marichal. Madrid: Alianza, 
1984. 

Simmel, Georg, “Das Abenteuer”, Philosophische Kultur. Berlin: Klaus Wagenbach, 1983, 
pp. 13-26. 

Soria Olmedo, Andrés, “Dos voces a nivel” in Pedro Salinas y Jorge Guillén, Corresponden- 
cla (1923-1951). Barcelona: Tusquets, 1992, pp. 9-36. 

Torre, Guillermo de, “Evocacién de Pedro Salinas”, Asomante, I (enero-febrero 1954): 12-18. 

Varela, Javier, “El si y el no de Pedro Salinas” in Pedro Salinas 1891-1951. Madrid: 
Ministerio de Cultura, 1992. 161-176. 


Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 633 


PEDRO SALINAS: ITALIA EN UNA POSTAL Y TRES CARTAS 


A JORGE GUILLEN 
Venezia 19 mayo 1931 


Primer encuentro con Italia. Milan, Verona, Venezia. Bisogno avere una confusione 
nel capo! Hoy a Budapest. jPara aclarar las cosas! Abrazos. 
Pedro 


A JORGE GUILLEN® 


[Membrete: N.A.S.M. Holland-América Line] 
Maison-Carrée, 14-8-49 

Mi querido Jorge: 

{Qué brutal es ésto de los viajes rapidos! jParis, una semana, Argel, otra! 
Y en ese tiempo un diluvio de memorias y de presente, que se te viene encima. 
Antes de todo: vive, y jviva! el Viejo Mundo. Aprecio las diferencias entre ésto 
y aquéllo, pero si la raz6n me apunta a algunas cosas de alli como superiores, mis 
sentimientos me echan en brazos de lo de aqui. jM4s europeo y mediterraneo que 
nunca! Simplemente porque Europa me parece més hermosa y mds humana, y en 
proporcion incomparable. 

Esta casa de los padres de Margarita es una maravilla, y ahora la pueblan todas 
sus hermanas y los sobrinos, simulando la vida de hace 30 afios. He hablado mucho 
de Espafia con Andrea: sin comentarios. Cada vez la veo mas lejos y la quiero 
mas. 

En Paris vi a Matilde’, a Cassou®, un momento, (se iba al otro dia a Yugosla- 
via), a Marcelle Auclair (no ha traducido nada), a Edith’, a Maravallio § Betyve 


almorzando en casa de Germaine; todos atentisimos. ;Qué balcones! jCémo me 
acordé de ti y de ella! 

Salimos majfiana para Italia: vuelo Argel-Roma. Bajaré a Napoles, en seguida 
y luego haremos el itinerario Roma, Siena, Firenze, Ravenna, Venezia, Vicenza, 
Padua, y de alli a Paris. Llegaremos a Paris el 11 de setiembre. (Estards tu alli, 
entonces? Te doy sefias y fechas, abajo, para que me escribas. No dejes de hacerlo, 
en cuanto puedas. Muchos abrazos a tu padre y hermanos. Margarita te recuerda 


6. Publicada en Correspondencia 1923-1951, 185, 508. 

7. Mathilde Pomés (1866-1977), hispanista, poeta y traductora. 
8. Jean Cassou (1897-1989). 

9. Edith Helman, profesora en Simmons College. 


10. José Antonio Maravall era entonces director del Colegio de Espafia en Paris. 


634 ENRIC BOU 


Abrazos 
Pedro 


20-27 de agosto: 

Pensione Milton e Bellavista. 
Porta Pinciana. 

Roma 


28 agosto u setiembre: 
Pensione Berchielli 
Lungarno 

Firenze.2-6 setiembre: 
Albergo Europa e Britannico 
Venezia 


A SOLITA SALINAS Y JUAN MARICHAL 


[membrete: Albergo Berchielli/Firenze] 
30.8.49 
Ilustres padres e ilustrisimo vastago: 

En Florencia, desde anoche. Pasamos 26 horas en Siena, en el camino de Roma 
a aqui. Todo ha sido maravillas, en el viaje, pero Siena ha sido la sorpresa. Una 
ciudad gética, llena de palacios, con unas callejuelas, costanillas y rincones 
prodigiosos. Y una Catedral de colores, fant4stica. Pasamos un dia perfecto. 
Teniamos un cuarto tan grande como toda la casa de Baltimore. Las persianas de 
madera, tan altas como la sala de casa. ;Y qué vista! Aqui en Florencia tampoco 
andamos mal. Desde nuestra ventana vemos el Puente Vecchio y el Arno a nuestros 
pies. En frente las ruinas de las casas voladas por los alemanes. jQué barbarie, 
semejante atrocidad! No se comprende, de monstruoso. También volaron tres 
puentes. 

La caracteristisca del viaje es lo abrumador del pafs, en riqueza de arte y 
pintoresca. Todo es mds de lo que se esperaba. Asombra cémo ha podido 
acumularse esa enormidad de hermosura romana, gética, Renacimiento, Barroco. 
Lo malo es el cansancio: se nos echan encima tanta maravilla que nos rinden. He 
vuelto a encontrar lo que hace 15 afios no veia: las sAbanas de bafio, inmensas; 
los coches de punto; el vinagre de verdad, que se saborea; las pastas de almendras 
deliciosas; las mesillas de noche con sus preciosos orinales. Es decir, la civilizacién. 
Comida excelente y nunca cara, buen vino corriente. En fin estamos encantados 
excepto por lo del cansancio. Pero tomamos taxis y coches (que no son caros) a 
menudo. Lo de la Coca-Cola es verdad, por desgracia, pero no con exceso, aun. 


Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 635 


Otro inconveniente: las bicicletas con motor que pululan y meten un ruido infernal. 
También es escasa la luz eléctrica. Poco es[ilegible], es verdad, pero no sabéis 
cémo estamos, de cansados. Llegaremos el 11 de setiembre a Paris. Me prosterno 
ante el caballero y os saludo 

Padre 
Si hay alguna carta importante mand4dmela, teniendo en cuenta mi itinerario y 
calculando cinco fechas o decidme el contenido y guardadla ahi. 
[al margen] Juan: gracias por su carta. Mandaré el cheque. Dije a Jaime que 
[ilegible] estar en casa hacia el 17 0 18. 


A JORGE GUILLEN! 


[Baltimore] 4 de octubre de 1949 

Mi querido Jorge: 

En Baltimore desde el viernes. Llegamos a Paris tres 0 cuatro dias después 
de salir ti. jMala suerte! Era mi inica esperanza de verte, por ahora. Pasamos 
un largo y excelente rato en casa de Germaine. {C6mo decirte todo lo que hemos 
visto y disfrutado en este magnifico viaje? Primero, y principal para Margarita, 
y para mi, la vuelta a la casa de Maison Carrée, tan llena de recuerdos, y los dias 
pasados alli con la familia, tan cordial, tan afectuosa y alegre de vernos. Para 
Margarita ha sido una bendicién. Luego, (yo no pude pasar mds que nueve dias 
en M. Carrée) tomamos el avi6n para Italia, y empezé el fabuloso viaje, de maravilla 
en maravilla. Margarita no conocia Italia; yo a medias, y nada del Sur. Roma 
y Florencia las tenia vistas muy aprisa. De modo que todo ha salido como de 
primera vista. jY qué vista! Tu ya conoces Italia y la profusién increfble de 
hermosuras que prodiga por todos lados. Y de todos los tamafios. Desde que 
empezamos a ver cosas tan poco conocidas de nosotros como la soberbia coleccién 
de pinturas de Pompeya y Herculano, del Museo de N4poles, hasta que acabamos 
jay!, enla divina Vicenza, con sus Villas Valmarana todas decoradas por Tiépolo, 
y su teatro de Palladio, no hemos hecho mds que admirar y mirar y admirar. 
Estuvimos en Napoles, Roma, Siena, Florencia, Venecia, Padua y Vicenza. 
Margarita se ha portado estupendamente. Dada su vida sedentaria de aqui yo tenia 
cierto temor de que se cansara. Pero hemos hecho las cosas bien, y no ha tenido 
un dia malo, salvo un leve resfriado en Napoles. No hemos visto a nadie en Italia. 
Tenia cartas de Poggioli’? para Ungaretti, Praz, etc. Pero preferi emplear una 
mafiana, por ejemplo, en la Villa Borghese que en dar caza a nadie. En fin hemos 


11. Publicada en Correspondencia 1923-1951, 186, 509-511. 
12. Carta de Poggioli, 3-VI-1949. Giuseppe Ungaretti, Mario Praz. 


636 ENRIC BOU 


vuelto rebosados de visiones y recuerdos prodigiosos. Y yo muy impresionado 
de la vivacidad, alegria y actividad de los italianos, tal y como se observa al viajar. 
Y no te digo nada de las comidas. Paris, luego, estupendo. En otro tono, el suyo, 
unico. Me pas6 una cosa rara. Viniendo de Italia se me present6 un poco apagado, 
en los dos primeros dias, era como la ciudad usual, la de costumbre, cuando se 
regresa de la extraordinario. Pero de pronto, por una especie de iluminacién, el 
tercer dia, al poner el pie en el Pont des Arts, y al ver aquellos bancos viejos de 
madera, donde me he sentado algunas veces, y enfrente el precioso Institut de 
France, tan armonioso, tan digno y tan viejo, se me subi6 de pronto todo el amor 
de Paris,y desde entonces lo he mirado sin cesar, asi, enamorado. jQué gusto, 
Jorge, verlo asi todo, y no indiferentemente, 0 a disgusto! En Paris tuve que trabajar 
en la UNESCO, por las tardes, en un informe que me habia pedido Torres Bodet'*. 
(Cosa muy graciosa: después de haber almorzado juntos, a mi ida, le gustaron ciertas 
de esas “ideas” mias que tanto dafio me han hecho, y se empefié en que trabajara 
con ellos, por lo menos un mes. Yo le dije que mi viaje a Italia no me lo quitaba 
nadie. Y como luego, en setiembre, s6lo me quedaban quince dias para Paris se 
ofreci6 a pedir él una licencia a Hopkins, de quince dias mds. Asi lo hizo. ;Y 
se la negaron! El se quedé muy extrafiado. Yo, no. Conozco a estos americanos, 
hablando siempre de cooperacién internacional y luego haciendo nada. La 
consecuencia es que tuve que trabajar mds, en esos quince dias. No digas nada 
de esto de la licencia, eh, porque no quiero que se sepa). Por las mafianas fbamos 
de Mureo (palabrita que te propongo, estilo Joyce, hija de Museo y bureo); por 
las tardes se quedaba Margarita con su hermana y yo me dirigiaa la Avenue Kléber, 
a un despacho magnifico que me habian dado. jChico, qué gentes se encuentra 
uno alli! Ricardo Baeza'*, Pepe Benito, el sinvergiienza magno. Vi a Quiroga, 
tan cordial, maldiciente y trabajador como siempre. Muy flojo de salud. Ya te 
contaré. Matilde también delicada, simpdtica. Se marché a descansar antes de 
que saliéramos nosotros de Paris. Jean Cassou muy efusivo y amigo. Pero la 
persona que mas ganas tenia de ver era Leén: vino a Paris, para estar con nosotros. 
Tan leal, recto y bueno como hace veinte afios, Ilevando su cruz (porque llevar 
la cruz es vivir en Espajia hoy, siendo como es él) con dignidad y decoro absolutos. 
A ver si la podéis ayudar algo comprandole libros. Se merece todo. Asombra 
ver a una persona sin mancha de contaminacién, viviendo en aquella podre. También 
vi mucho a Canito, siempre atento, carifioso y muy bien de actitud. Y Maravall 
vino a verme, estuvo conmigo sumamente afectuoso e interesado en nuestras cosas. 
Insisti6 mucho en que fuéramos a almorzar 0 a cenar a su casa. Creo que al final 
comprendié que yo no queria poner los pies en una Institucién del Gobierno de 


13. Jaime Torres Bodet (1902-1974). Salinas prepar6 por encargo de Torres Bodet la revista 
internacional Plural. 


14. Ricardo Baeza (1890-1956), amigo de juventud de Pedro Salinas. 


Las cartas de viaje de Pedro Salinas 637 


Franco. Me da ldstima. Tuve la suerte de que no estuviese Vifias. Del cual me 
han contado que sigue con su misma doblez y cuqueria de siempre. Bataillon 
magnifico; cenamos una noche con él. Y Sarrailh’’ nos invit6 a almorzar en su 
casa, es decir en la Sorbona. Chico, qué sorpresa, cuando me asomo a la ventana 
de la sala y me veo delante de las narices la ventanita del cuarto donde yo vivi un 
afio, 1914-15, alli, frente a frente. Estuvo muy simpatico con nosotros. Conoci 
a Albert Garcia, el marido de Mita, sobrina de Margarita, joven hispanista, profesor 
ahora en el Liceo de Rouen, que espera ir pronto a Paris; muy buen chico. Hemos 
ido al teatro o al cine, casi todas las noches, yo con mi avidez de paleto. Desde 
L’ Avare, a la engolada y grotesca espafiolada de Montherlant'®, que me hizo reir. 
He visto cosas de Anouilh y de Salacrou que no conocia; la “Ondine” de Giraudoux, 
y “Les Mains sales” de Sartre. Ya te diré. En general, nada de primer orden, 
y todo discreto, inteligente y bien hecho. De peliculas, dos italianas soberbias. 
Y “Le silence de la mer”!'’, que me gusta mucho. Sali de Paris con enorme gana 
de volver. jAh, si pudiera uno ir alli todos los afios! Chico, cada vez mas europeo, 
porque lo llevo dentro. Y mas aterrorizado ante la idea de que puedan caer ese 
trozo maravilloso del mundo en manos de la barbarie ruso-comunista, 0 teflirse 
de la boberia y el gregarismo de otro lado. Me parece, sin embargo, que se defiende 
bien. 

Aqui me esperaba Don Carlos, el mismo y otro, mas pillastre y sonriente, y 
ya corriéndolo todo y rindiéndole a uno. Yo le veo andar con el alma en un hilo, 
temiendo que se caiga y se haga dafio. Tendré que acostumbrarme. Esté muy 
gracioso. No habla. Dice sélo tres o cuatro palabras. Una de ellas, me gusta 
mucho: “jMira!” Esa invitaci6n a mirar, y a admirar, es lo mas hermoso del hombre. 
jAsise empieza! Y se acaba, cuando se acaba, es decir una sola vez, en... CAntico. 

Solita abultadilla, pero bien. Con soledades de Don Juan. Yo también las tengo 
porque me acompafia bien. Condenado Harvard. 

Aun no he empezado a instalarme, ni sé lo que voy a ponerme a hacer en cuanto 
pasen estos dias de aclimatacién. Lo unico que he hecho es pagar cuentas y 
escribirte. 

Ya te figurards las ganas que tengo de saber de ti. A ver si las satisfaces pronto. 
Margarita, Sol y Jaime te recuerdan y desean también noticias tuyas. Te abraza 





Pedro 
Volvimos en avidn, y pasamos sobre Boston. 


15. Jean Sarrailh, Rector de la Sorbona. 
16. Seguramente Le maitre de Santiago (1947). 
17. Pelicula dirigida por J.-P. Melville, ambientada en Vercors. 


EMANUELE KANCEFF 





Travel to Italy: A Proposal 
for a Bibliographical Classification 


In the field of hodoeporics, we are witnessing a rapid development of literary criticism 
as well as a flourishing of research teams, new collections of texts, and even coffee- 
table books. The “Viaggio in Italia” represents one of the richest sectors of 
hodeoporics in terms of the percentage of titles. Although our reflections as 
comparatists and students of the history of civilization can fruitfully be exercised 
on this topic, there remain certain grey areas beyond this vast, unexplored territory. 
A systematic organization of texts, the correct approach, and a clear reserach process 
of texts still remain evasive. In this confusion in which the text is often mistaken 
for an amorphous reservoir of news and curiosities, the lack of fundamental tools 
and a consistent research methodology become ever more evident. 

What references are available to the bibliographer of travel texts, especially 
One limited to a time or discipline? It does not seem unjustified to say that after 
more than a century of research in this field, beginning with the bibliography that 
Alessandro d’ Ancona appended to his Italian edition of Montaigne’s Journal,' only 
partial results have been achieved. The few bibliographical essays that have been 
published, except for catalogues of collections—such as Pescarzoli’s* essay on the 
Fossati-Bellani collection of Milan’s Biblioteca Ambrosiana (6000 titles) and the 
bibliography appearing in the Bollettino del C.I.R.V.J.° for the Tursi section of 
Venice’s Biblioteca Marciana (25000 titles) — are generally limited to a single 
discipline and represent a catalogue of the books available in one specific library. 


1. Alessandro d’Ancona, L’/ialia alla fine del secolo XVI. Giornale di viaggio di Michele 
de Montaigne in Italia nel 1580 e 1581. Nuova edizione del testo francese ed italiano con 
note ed un saggio di bibliografia dei viaggi in Italia (Citta di Castello: Lapi, 1889; reprint 
in 1895). 

2. I libri di viaggio e le guide della raccolta Luigi Vittorio Fossati Bellani. Catalogo descrittivo 
a cura di Antonio Pescarzoli (Rome: Edizioni di Storia e Letteratura, 1957), 3 vol. 


3. Schedari Tursi. The card catalog of the Tursi Collection in Venice’s Biblioteca Marciana 
are being published by E. Kanceff in the Bollettino del C.I.R.V.J. (starting with no. 21, 
1990). 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


Travel To Italy: A Bibliographical Classification 639 


Such essays include the work of Pine-Coffin* (British Museum) in English, that 
of Lucia Tresoldi* (Biblioteca Hertziana and library of the National Institute of 
Archaeology and Art History) in German, and Gian Carlo Menichelli® (Bibliothéque 
Nationale in Paris) in French. Otherwise one must conduct a systematic examination 
of the millions of titles in the printed and on-line catalogs of the great libraries of 
the world’, and simultaneously resort to older, general sources, such as Blanc,® 
or Boucher de la Richarderie,’ or even Lenglet-Dufresnoy.'° 


4. Robert S. Pine-Coffin, Bibliography of British and American Travel to Italy to 1860 
(Florence: Olschki, 1974). 


5. Lucia Tresoldi, Viaggiatori tedeschi in Italia, 1452-1870: saggio bibliografico (Rome: 
Bulzoni, 1975), 2 vol. 


6. Gian Carlo Menichelli, Viaggiatori francesi reali o immaginari nell’Italia dell’Ottocento 
(Rome: Edizioni di Storia e Letteratura, 1962). 


7. Bibliothéque nationale, Paris. Catalogue général des livres imprimés de la Bibliothéque 
Nationale. Auteurs (Paris: Imprimerie Nationale, 1897-); British Museum. Department of 
Printed Books. General Catalogue of Printed Books. Photolithographic edition to 1955 
(London: The Trustees of the British Museum, 1961-1966), 263 vol.; Ten-Years Supplement 
1956-1965 (London: The Trustees of the British Museum, 1968), 50 vol.; Subject Index 
of the Modern Works Added to the Library of the British Museum (London: W. Clowes and 
Son, [then] Trustees of the British Museum, 1902-1968); The British Library General Catalogue 
of Printed Books to 1975 (London: Clive Bingley; Miinchen-New York-Paris: K. G. Saur, 
1979-); The National Union Catalog. Pre 1956 Imprints. A Cumulative Author List Representing 
Library of Congress Printed Cards and Titles Reported by American Libraries (London: 
Mansell, 1968-1980), 685 vol.; Supplement (London: Mansell, 1980-1982), 68 vol.; A 
Cumulative Author List Representing Library of Congress Printed Cards and Titles Reported 
by Other American Libraries, 1953-1957 (Paterson, NJ: Rowman and Littlefield, 1961), 
28 vol.; 1958-1962 (New York: Rowman and Littlefield, 1963), 54 vol.; 1963-1967 (Ann 
Arbor: J. W. Edwards, 1969), 72 vol.; 1968-1972 (Ann Arbor: J. W. Edwards, 1973), 119 
vol.; 1973-1977 (Totowa, NJ: Rowman and Littlefield, 1978), 135 vol. and subsequent updates; 
Library of Congress Catalog. A Cumulative List of Works Represented by the Library of 
Congress Printed Cards. Books; Subjects (Ann Arbor: J. W. Edwards, 1955-). 


8. Joseph Blanc, Bibliographie italico-francaise universelle, ou Catalogue méthodique de 
tous les imprimés francais sur l’Italie ancienne et moderne depuis l’origine de l’imprimerie, 
1475-1885 (Milan: J. Blanc, 1886), 2 vol. 


9. Gilles Boucher de la Richarderie, Bibliotheque universelle des voyages, ou Notice complete 
et raisonnée de tous le voyages anciens et modernes dans les différentes parties du monde, 
publiés tant en langue francaise qu’en langues étrangéres, classés par ordre de pays dans 
leur série chronologique; avec des extraits plus ou moins rapides des voyages les plus estimés 
de chaque pays, et des jugemens motivés sur les relations anciennes qui ont le plus de célébrité 
(Paris: Treuttel et Wirtz, 1808) 6 vol. 


10. Nicolas Lenglet-Dufresnoy, Méthode pour étudier la géographie (Paris, 1742), 7 vol. 


640 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


It is doubtful that the totality of such research could assure our scholar the 
bibliographical base for solid research. 

The problem of the inaccessibility of travelers’ accounts was evident as early 
as the mid-eighteenth century, when the first attempts to systematize the material 
were made. It is significant that the first published reference aid, the annotated 
bibliography of travel texts by Lenglet-Dufresnoy, is entitled Méthode pour l’étude 
de la géographie. With this work by a learned follower of the Enlightment, an 
old error took form and solidified, an error perpetuated through the centuries and 
very much alive today: that of considering travel texts to be a form of geographical 
texts. Even today, in the subject catalogues of our libraries, if one is not content 
with the pitiful results achieved by using the keywords “travel” and “travellers,” 
and follows the directions in the official terminology of the Library of Congress 
Subject Headings,'' it is under the country name that one can find a considerable 
number of the accounts. 

The field’s limiting conception of travel texts and documents derived from the 
disputable eighteenth-century classifications and is still in force; therefore, the whole 
of the immense and extremely varied field must be satisfied, as we shall see, with 
very modest space. The Dewey Decimal Classification,'’? which many of the 
libraries in the world outside the United States still use, is based on the subdivision 
of knowledge into ten areas. It has placed all travel-related books in the ninth class, 
geography, according to the following logic: 900= class “Geography” , 910= subclass 
“travel”, 915= section “travel in Europe”, 915.4= travel to Italy. It is under this 
single number that libraries employing the Dewey Decimal Classification must place 
the tens of thousands of texts on travel to Italy. This implies that the whole field 
should be considered an extension of the geographical sciences—a grave error since 
it excludes a large number of important texts that do not belong in the geographical 
sciences. Let’s suppose that we go beyond this problem and accept the idea of 
limiting the entire field of travel to Italy to the sphere of geography. The Dewey 
Decimal Classification is based on the possibility of indefinitely extending the 
classification numbers, so that precise information, ever more minute and analytic, 
can be obtained without changing the fundamental classification. Guidelines provided 


11. Most travel accounts are now assigned the subject heading of the country name with 
the subdivision “Description and travel” (e.g., “Italy--Description and travel”). However, 
in the nineteenth century and earlier they were frequently entered under the country name 
only as a subject without the subdivision, so that keayword searching (e.g., Italy and travel?) 
does not always locate earlier accounts. It is best to keyword search for possible words in 
titles, such as viaggio? or travel?, or tour? and Italy?, or Italia?, or Piemonte?. 


12. A Classification ond Subject Index for Cataloguing and Arranging the Books and Pamphlets 


of a Library (Amherst, MA, 1876) and subsequent updated edition published by the Forest 
Press Division, Lake Placid Education Foundation. 


Travel To Italy: A Bibliographical Classification 641 


for by the international commission in charge of continuous updating now allow 
the expansion of the number 914.5 in order to reach a very detailed classification. 
In practice, there can be a classification number not only for Travel in Italy but, 
for example, travel in Piedmont and, following, in the province of Turin and then 
in the city of Turin and—why not?—at a certain place in the city. This level of 
subclassification could be extremely helpful if one is mainly interested the localization 
of travel. Moreover, adding a list of subtitles to indicate the language of the texts 
would be an additional enhancement. Although this would be very useful, it doesn’t 
resolve major difficulties, first of all, the confusion of genres and typologies in 
the Dewey Decimal Classification. Scholars who have consulted the records classified 
under number 914.5 etc. in the attempt to make a working bibliography of available 
travel texts have certainly met with great disappointment. Reference sources cannot 
be identified using the subject index under the headings Travel and Travelers, or 
the subheadings Description and travel under country name (more proof of the 
effective subjection of the topic to geographic terms). To add to the confusion, 
diaries or accounts of travel co-exist with publications of a wholly different genre: 
“Touring Club” guides, manuals of geography or geology, studies of travel, 
collections of maps, fictional travels, works classified as travel only by their title, 
works on cooking and wine, tourist publications, etc. 

Geographic criteria should not dictate the classification of travel to Italy, even 
if they are important elements in such a classification. Years of study have 
demonstrated the need for a more precise system, the fruit of experience actually 
conducted on material to be classified. The systematic ordering created by Angiolo 
Tursi comes from such experience, and has been adopted by the Biblioteca Nazionale 
Marciana for its collection. Tursi also intended to apply this system to his 
Bibliografia generale dei viaggiatori stranieri in Italia;'* and the fact that its title 
contains the term “viaggiatori” (travelers) and not “viaggi” (travels) was not 
deliberate, but certainly not chance either. Tursi’s idea was in fact to give order 
to a field, according to the profession of the writers rather than according to the 
nature of their written works. For this reason, with the exception of class I 
(“Guides”), vocation is generally the guiding principle for each subdivision. Certainly 
it seemed impossible to him to put a work such as the Voyage d’un Francois en 
Italie by the astronomer Lalande, into class VII (“Scientists”), since it’s a veritable 
encyclopedia on Italy during the second half of the eighteenth century, certainly 
not inspired by scientific problems but rather intended to inform travelers who might 
follow him of all possible itineraries to take. But the elasticity of classification 
did not go much beyond this, so that in class II (“Men of Letters”) are found only 


13. Tursi’s bibliography, a 70,000-card catalog that still needs double-checking, was willed 
to the Centro Interuniversitario di Ricerca sul Viaggio in Italia, located in Moncalieri. The 
Centro accepted Tursi’s gift and promised to publish his bibliographi in its entirety. 


642 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


travelers who had a profession in the humanities, distinguished only by the chosen 
form of expression: writers of accounts, memoirs and letters (in the first subclass), 
novelists, short story writers and dramatists (in the second subclass). If such a 
division calls to mind an attention to formal type taken as a reference in the 
development of evaluation criteria, then class III (“Artists”) came to frustrate such 
possible mechanisms with its rigid division between Painters-Sculptors-Architects 
(first subclass), Musicians (second subclass) and “Theatre Types” (third subclass). 
This last category includes both true and professional artists as well as “Men of 
the Theatre” and even “Theatre Scholars”, a confusion dictated only by practical 
motives and which in hindsight seem to us unacceptable today. This arrangement 
becomes even more incomprehensible if one considers that the following class is 
devoted to “Scholars”, with a first subclass of “Art Scholars,” followed by another 
four (“Scholars of archaeology-epigraphy-numismatics, ” “Archivists and Librarians,” 
“Scholars of folklore and popular literature,” “Scholars of institutions and cultural 
agencies”). If this class reflects the general progress of the presence of scholar- 
travelers through the centuries, it also make us question the inadmissible omissions. 
Where should we put, for example, Bernard de Montfaucon? He certainly does 
not fit in the following class, (that of “Religious”), divided into two subclasses 
(“Catholics” and “Non-Catholics”). Such a division may answer questions that 
are not superfluous and correspond to undeniable facts; however, it seems in other 
ways too Manichaean and brief. Classes VI (“Politicians”) and VII (“Scientists”) 
seem more organic and functional. The first, with its five subclasses (“Princes 
and Heads of State” , “Men of Government and Politicians” , “Diplomats” , “Military”, 
“Publicists”) seems well able to manage the complex material that belongs to it; 
the latter, with several subclasses “accordion-style”, can only be accepted, provided 
these subdivisions are somehow inclusive of the etceteras that Angiolo Tursi wanted 
to add. 

It is in class VIII (“Alpinists”) and above all class IX (“Various Travelers”: 
merchants, industrialists, hotel-keepers, athletes, etc.) that the lack of proportion 
and omissions inevitable in a “rigid” classification of this type are most evident. 
And it surprises us even more when confronted with class X (“Writers of Imaginary 
Travels”), to accept that it can accommodate all the nuances of “not real” travel 
that contemporary studies have identified. It is advisable not to take this class into 
consideration, as it is for the following and final class, (class XI), which contains 
works pertinent to travel in Italy, with the following subdivisions: (1) Literature; 
(2) Tourism; (3) Hotels; (4) Roads, communications, post offices. 

In conclusion, it must be noted that this configuration, while wanted by Angiolo 
Tursi as a framework for his incomplete and unpublished Bibliografia, remained 
disregarded in the outline of his Raccolta, which has been housed in the Marciana 
Library in Venice since 1956. Inthe Raccolta, the library has created other classes 
I would label “non-functional” in that they lack theoretical justification (e.g., “Italian 
guides”). 


Travel To Italy: A Bibliographical Classification 643 


To be universally applicable, the Tursi classification should be reduced to nine 
functional classes, and utilized in an elastic way (as is, on the other hand, the Dewey 
Decimal Classification). Other operations and distinctions must be foreseen and 
the means to express all these realities that would otherwise be ignored must be 
found: mainly the specificity and the nuances of the works that are taken into 
examination. 

First, a differentiation of type and determination of “value” are necessary. 
As a matter of fact, the confusion generated from within each class by the 
juxtaposition of works ofa very different nature seems unacceptable. On the other 
hand, even in the homogenous classes it does not seem possible to confuse similar 
texts borne of different circumstances, some as the fruit of direct experience, others 
as expressions of myth and diffused ideas. The general criteria for “pertinence” 
which must be at the base of a specific collection, is translated, at the textual level, 
in a fact that seems to us an essential element of discrimination: the presence or 
lack thereof of the author in Italy, the direct knowledge which directs the work, 
(whatever it may be and however it is expressed); or, conversely, the indirect notion, 
which make the work itself a connected block in the mosaic we want to study, without 
it entering into the comprehensive design with full weight; or, lastly, the condition 
of the work the element of which would be deleted or overlooked if its presence 
does not help us better understand the problems we are confronting. 

Therefore let us make a hypothesis by horizontally subdividing the material 
into three main parts corresponding to the “nature” of each text under consideration: 
I, Documents; II, Studies; III, Bibliographies. At the same time, let us vertically 
employ three main subdivisions which show the pertinence, relation or complement- 
arity of the subjects we want to find. In this way we will have created a grid with 
nine compartments, to which we can assign numbers one through nine, reserving 
zero for all the cases that do not fall into one of the nine categories. With the first 
number of our “service code” that we are building, we will be able to supply 
important information to start the search: for example, we could say whether the 
subject of our search is a relevant text, a true “travel in Italy”, like the Lettres 
familiéres sur l’Italie by President de Brosses, (number 1) o if it is a fundamental 
and complete bibliography, without particular pertinence to our topic, such as the 
Catalogue des livres imprimés de la Bibliothéque Nationale of Paris (number 9). 
At this point, we will be able to proceed in our quest for definition by categorizing 
the author’s background, and here Tursi’s nine functional classes will be useful, 
classes which should reflect the attitude of the author toward Italy rather than his 
“profession”. Moreover, these classes will be applicable no matter what the first 
number of our code is; that is to say that not only in the case of texts, (be they 
pertinent or relevant or complementary), but also in the case of studies and 
bibliographies. Again we will reserve zero for miscellaneous cases. Since it is 
important to know under what circumstances a work is born, it is even more important 
to know what it became. Thus, we should at least add to our working code a third 


644 EMANUELE KANCEFF 


number, perhaps the most important of the three, which indicates whether our text 
is an objective and journalistic description; or a product of poetic inspiration; a 
personal diary, a confession; a fictional account of a trip (but always the product 
of actual experiences); a exercise in essay writing; a “discussion” of observed reality; 
a story in the form of a dialogue, even if fictionalized (voyage par lettres); an example 
of satire or humorism; a historical trip; lastly, the product of various, pluralistic 
impressions, or a case that does not fall in the grid, for which the number zero 
can again be used. Naturally, the application of this grid system to the other two 
fascia will not only be possible, but an impelling reason for the enrichment of our 
possibilities of defintion. 

I do not know how many scholars will find it useful to expand the Dewey 
Decimal Classification, which is presently very limited, with respect to “Travel 
to Italy.” Norcan I foresee what difficulties might arise from its diffusion. Having 
experimented with it for quite some time within the sphere of the C.I.R.V.I. with 
positive results and having observed its effect on research efficiency in our own 
Center, I believe we have reached the opportune moment to let it go forth from 
the closed doors of our library to propose it for adoption by colleagues who work 
in the field of hodoeporics. We hope that this will prove a useful tool to help us 
to read, and correctly read, travel in Italy. 


Universita degli Studi, Torino 


(Translation by Elizabeth Stein and Paula Covington) 


LUIGI MONGA 


A Taxonomy of Renaissance Hodoeporics: 
A Bibliography of Theoretical Texts 
on Methodus Apodemica (1500-1700) 


A bibliography of 16th- and 17th-century travel literature offers numerous 
guidebooks as well as examples of personal narrative. Located at the opposite end 
of a taxonomic spectrum based on guidelines of subjectivity/objectivity, these two 
forms are paradigmatic of a large system of travel-related works that still remain 
uncharted. Midway between these two extremes, however, one finds a vast array 
of works that exemplify a peculiarity of 17th-century travel narrative.' We start 
noticing the appearance, in the second half of the 16th century, of full-length 
theoretical works on how to describe a foreign country. Sometimes, a synopsis 
of the rules pertaining to reporting on foreign places is appended to a travel book, 
as if justifying the method followed by its author. It seems that in the 16th and 
17th centuries “the consciousness specific to the traveler was the consciousness 
of the observer; and philosophy, now reduced to science, was increasingly regarded 
as little more than disciplined and objective observation. ... The transformations 
that [travel] worked in the character of the traveler were thought to be a product 
of observation, comparison, the sharpening of judgement, the ability to formulate 


1. Most of 17th-century guidebooks (with the notable exception of Etienne’s Guide des 
chemins de France, Rowlands’s The Post for Divers Partes of the World, and Schott’s 
Itinerarium Italie), maintain the presence of a narrative subject, an / (or we) whose activity 
is limited to specifying going places and seeing things. Nothing of importance ever happens 
to the these subjects; in fact, they could easily be replaced by an impersonal subject pronoun. 
One is tempted to judge them as totally fictional devices, voided of human qualities, other 
than moving and observing. These subjects see everything, remark every object; in going 
from A to B, they take a leisurely pace, rerouting their itinerary so that every intermediate 
point is noted—including the ones that are too far and meandering to fit into the fictional 
traveling schedule that they have imagined. These texts are a far cry from the personal 
recollection of many Renaissance travelers who were just interested in describing their 
personal experience in the places they had visited, without a deliberate attempt to organize 
their narrative. 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


646 LUIGI MONGA 


a general picture or representation of the world from observation” ;” in a nutshell, 
a new method of analysis was created. 

Nothing was totally new, however: 16th-century Venetian ambassadors were 
routinely given a set of rules to observe when traveling abroad, in order to write 
a better relatione to the Senate. Their accounts are still considered fine examples 
of thorough political and factual analysis and careful recollection. 


Queste cose si ricercano per fare una relatione. Prima descrivere il sito della 
provincia nella quale sara stato, anteponendo principalmente il nome antico e 
moderno della detta provincia, mostrando in qual parte del mondo ed in che 
dispositione del cielo si ritrovino i suoi confini dalle quattro parti, la sua larghezza 
e circuito, in quanti e quali regni o provincie minori sia divisa, nondimeno 
nominando le citta principali, le fortezze, arcivescovati e vescovati, gli fiumi 
principali e villaggi, gli monti e selve e gli passi circonvicini ad essa pertinenti. 
Bisogna trattare delle qualita di essa provincia, come sarebbe a dire della tempera- 
tura dell’aere, bonta e tristitia; delle acque e della bonta loro similmente e tristitia; 
della fertilita o sterilita di biade ed altre cose, se pertinenti al vivere umano; delle 
miniere, degli animali; se il paese € montuoso, piano, selvoso, paludoso, e dove; 
qual parte sia meglio abitata ed in quale parte siano selve o paludi che impediscono 
l’abitarvi e se vi € alcun meraviglioso effetto di natura. Conviene ragionare degli 
abitatori suoi, mostrando gli loro costumi ed abiti, di che colore, statura o 
disposizione siano; se sono religiosi, superstitiosi e di altra particolare religione, 
l’ordine e l’apparato delle guerre per terra e per mare. Delle loro arti, ed in che 
pill si esercitano e vagliano; quai merci mandano fuori e pigiano da’ forestieri; 
del governo delli primi principi 0 padroni, di loro ricchezze, nobilta e seguito; 
delle nature e conditioni della plebe. Bisogna venire al particolare del principe 
e narrare la genealogia sua, descrivendo la persona, la vita che fa ed i costumi 
suoi, come sia amato dai suoi sudditi; quante siano le sue entrate e quante spese 
facci; la guardia che tiene, la grandezza della sua corte e con qual principe abbia 
amicitia 0 inimicitia.* 
The same kind of instructions are normally given to travelers to the New World. 
In 1538 Antonio Hurtado de Mendoza proposed a set of written guidelines to fra 
Marco da Nizza, who was about to visit and explore the Mexican province of 
Culuacfn.* Later, in 1577, official questionnaires will be distributed by the 


2. Eric J. Leed, The Mind of the Traveler: From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism (New York: 
Basic Books, 1991), p. 60. 


3. “Miscellanea del sec. XVI” in Venice’s Marciana Library, Cod. It., cl. vI, 187 (6039), 
ff. 245-250; already published in Pietro Donazzolo, / viaggiatori veneti minori. Rome: Reale 
Societa Geografica Italiana, 1927), pp. 6-7; see also Hentzer’s tabella, below. 


4. See them in Coleccién de documentos inéditos relativos al descubrimiento, conquista y 
colonizacion de las posesiones espanolas en América y Oceania, ed. J. Pacheco and F. 
Cardenas (Madrid, 1864-1884), m, 325-351. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 647 


Consejo de las Indias to governors and viceroys, so they could compile what now 
constitutes the Relaciones geogrdficas de Indias. 

In order to organize the vast material collected in the course of his visit to a 
foreign city, the writer needs to follow a methodology (see, below, Hentzer’s 
tabella); in doing so, he also avoids forgetting important elements in the chaotic 
and dispersed new microcosm of the unknown in which he finds himself. The 
methodus apodemica’ has entered the picture. 

The medieval tradition, based on the practice of orality,° tended to favor the 
testimony of the ear rather than the eye. A new scientific methodology based upon 
the careful observation of natural phenomena had been one of Leonardo da Vinci’s 
main discoveries. In the course of the 16th century, eyesight slowly achieves a 
more important epistemological function. Seeing allows the scientist to search for 
constants, rules, ways of measuring, for eyesight is at the foundation of investiga- 
tion, as wrote Juan Luis Vives in his De anima et vita: 


Primi magistri sunt sensus, in quorum domo est conclusa mens, e quibus princeps 
est visus, qui, ut Aristoteles inquit, plurimas nobis rerum species patefacit, 
auctorque ad investigationem fuit sapientie, quemadmodum preclare scripsit 
Plato.’ 


The viewing of things becomes more and more methodical and finds its own 
justification in the exactness of reporting. Later, reacting against the traditional 
scientific auctoritates, Galileo will underscore the importance of the eyes (nella 
fronte e nel cervello) in the analysis of natural phenomena: 


non in tutti i secoli passati si erano con poca fatica imparate le scienze a spese 
di altri sopra le carte scritte: ... 1 primi inventori trovarono et aqquistarono le 
cognizioni pill eccellenti delle cose naturali e divine con gli studii e contemplazioni 
fatte sopra questo grandissimo libro, che essa natura continuamente tiene aperto 


5. The adjective apodemus does not exist in classical Latin. It appears for the first time in 
medieval texts written in the German area. In fact the first occurrence of this adjective is 
in a manuscript of an anonymous poem: “Grosbertus tapinus, micros, apodemus et exul” 
(in Monumenta Germanie Historica: Poete, 1, 621, as quoted in Mittellateinisches 
Worterbuch, ed. Otto Prinz. Munich: C. H. Beck, 1967, s.v.). Inthe Renaissance apodemi- 
cus comes from the Greek &odnpéw (to travel abroad) and from the adjective a&modnpyoc, 
present in Pindar and Plato. The term methodus apodemica was coined to define a new 
critical attitude vis-a-vis traveling, an approach that considered traveling within the realm 
of absorbing and systematizing of human knowledge. The term Apodemik will be used in 
German as a specific scientific terminology, as in F. Posselt’s Apodemik, oder die Kunst 
zu reisen: Ein systematischer Versuch (Leipzig, 1795). 


6. Paul Zumthor, “The Medieval Travel Narrative,” New Literary History, xxv (1994), 
809-824. 


7. Juan Luis Vives, De anima et vita [1538], 0, 8 in Opera omnia (Valentiz Edetanorum: 
in officina B. Monfort, 1782), m, 373. 


648 LUIGI MONGA 


innanzi a quelli che hanno occhi nella fronte e nel cervello; ... pit: honorata e 
lodevole impresa era il procurar con le sue proprie vigilie, studii e sudori, di 
ritrovare qualche cosa admiranda e nuova tra le infinite che ancora nel profondissi- 
mo abbisso della filosofia restano ascose.® 


The 16th century required the application to navigation of new criteria of mathemat- 
ical exactitude. Overseas journeys demanded a proper, fastidious preparation and 
journals become more precise in their descriptive topography; the eyesight achieves 
the objective of total knowledge of reality. In the traditional hierarchy of things 
(visa, audita, lecta), the first category becomes primary, as far as trustworthyness 
and reliability.° The traveler who gives a truthful'® report of what he saw offers 
all the necessary guarantees of certainty, provided he limits his account to what 
he has personally seen, for, as André Thevet remarks, it is impossible “A celuy 
qui escrit [d’ Jestre present 4 toutes entreprises.”'' Basically, the scientific method- 
ology of the Renaissance refuses to extrapolate even from geographic knowledge: 
on one hand, such medieval efforts had given blatantly false results, on the other 
the impact of recent discoveries had surprised the western world to such an extent 
that nothing could be guessed any longer. This new methodus was not only a result 
of the exceedingly fictional character of early-17th-century travel journals,'? but 
was created by the necessity of achieving objectivity, of creating a modern, 
scientific topography that would reflect reality. As maps were becoming more and 
more trustworthy, the narrative had to be more truthful. 

Even the traveler who writes for his friends is concerned with the quality of 
his reporting and the image of himself he will leave to posterity: 


Une personne raisonable ne doit pas se contenter de voir du pais, elle doit faire 
en sorte de tirer avantage de ses voyages; rien n’est plus capable de polir les 


8. Letter to Piero Dini (21 May 1611), in Opere (Florence: Barbera, 1890-1909; reprinted 
in 1968, xi, 112-113). It is similar to Goethe’s exhortation to the readers of his Die 
Propylden to use their eyes carefully, if they wish to gain in knowledge: “Was man weif, 
sieht man erst!” (“Einleitung in die Propylaen,” Werke, Hamburger Ausgabe, ed. E. Trunz. 
Miinchen, 1982, xIv, 43). 


9. Bernard Guenée, Histoire et culture historique dans l’Occident médiéval (Paris: Aubier, 
1980), p. 132. 


10. Truth in reporting is an essential character, in an area of knowledge where, according 
to William langland, “pilgrymes and palmers ... hedden leue to lygen” (Piers the Plowman, 
prologue); see also my essay “Travel and Travel Writing: An Historical Overview of Hodoe- 
porics,” above, p. 51, n. 154. 


11. Les vrais pourtraits et vies des hommes illustres (Paris: Veuve J. Kervert et G. 
Chaudiére, 1584, 1, f° 44v). 


12. Normand Doiron, “L’Art de voyager: Pour une définition du récit de voyage 4 l’époque 
classique,” Poétique, n° 73 (1988), 85. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 649 


moeurs, de rafiner l’esprit, de donner du goust et de l’expérience, de procurer 
la connaissance des hommes que le voyage. ... 

Pour voyager utilement il faut tout voir et tout examiner, faire discernement 
de ce qui est louable et de ce qui ne l’est pas, aimer l’un et condamner |’autre, 
il faut faire de judicieuses reflexions sur tout, et principalement ne rien oublier, 
pour cela on doit avoir un journal de voyage of on écrira tous les soirs ce qu’on 
aura vi de mémorable pendant la journée; je conseillerai plutost la prolixité dans 
les remarques que la brieveté, et on fera bien attention jusqu’aux minuties, sauf 
ensuite de séparer le beau d’avec le médiocre, et l’admirable de ce qui est 
indifférent. 

On doit s’informer scrupuleusement des coutumes d’un pais of 1’on passe, 
de la religion, de la forme du gouvernement, ne point manquer de voir les 
souverains, scavoir leur nom, leur age, leur caractere, les vertus qui les dis- 
tinguent, les vives qu’on leur reproche, ce qui les fait aimer ou hair de leurs 
sujets: un simple particulier peut beaucoup profiter de tout cela, une ame bien 
née peut en tirer des régles pour sa conduite, et rien n’est plus nécessaire.'? 


Rather than concern myself with the long debate among 16th-century Aristote- 
lians on the differences between methodoi and hodoi,'* I would like to point out 
that travel writing becomes indeed a subject to study, a serious scientific matter, 
not just a practical exercise of individuals who want to share their experience with 
their friends or a task left to professional, albeit uneducated, courriers and 
procaccia.'* 

In his comedy Sir Politick Would-Be (published posthumously in 1705) Saint- 
Evremond presents, tongue-in-cheek, a seasoned German traveler who boasts to 
a French Marquis how seriously he and his fellows abide by the practical rules of 
the methodus apodemica in the course of their journeys: 


Pour les Rivieres, nous en devons savoir la Source, la largeur, la longueur du 
cours, combien elles ont de Ponts, de Passages, & particuliérement ou elles se 
déchargent dans la Mer. S’il reste quelque chose de 1’Antiquité, un morceau d’un 
Ouvrage des Romains, la ruine d’un Amphithéatre, le débris d’un temple, quelques 
Arches d’un Pont, de simples Piliers, il faut tout voir. ... Je ne dis rien des 
Tombeaux & des Epitaphes: on sait bien que c’est par 14 qu’il faut commencer. 
Je n’oublierai pas les Clochers & leurs Quarillons, niles Horloges, qui font passer 


13. Voyage d’ltalie de Pierre de Ville (1734), an unpublished manuscript in the Bibliothéque 
Méjanes of Aix-en-Provence (MS 425, pp. 241-243). 


14. Neal W. Gilbert, Renaissance Concept of Methods (New York: Columbia University 
Press, 1960), p. 170. 


15. The advice of professional traveler will always be sought. Giuseppe Miselli, a leader 
of official delegations from Rome through Europe, wrote a well-known guidebook, Il 
burattino veridico, overo instruzione generale per chi viaggia, con la descrizione dell’Euro- 
pa, distinzione de’ regni, provincie e citta, e con la tavola delle poste nelle vie pit regolate 
che al presente si trovano (Rome: Michel’Ercole, 1682). 


650 LUIGI MONGA 


les douze Apotres avant que de sonner, non plus que le Paradis Terrestre, & 
l’Arche de Noé, ot tous les animaux se remuent comme par Magie.'® 


The scientific task of pointing out “to the uninitiated traveller what he should 
observe, and to remind the one who is well informed of many objects which, but 
fora remembrancer, might escape him” was taken up by Colonel Julian R. Jackson, 
F.R.S., secretary to the Royal Geographic Society. His extensive manual, What 
to Observe, or The Traveller’s Remembrancer (London: Madden & Malcolm, 
1841), devoted almost 600 pages to help “those adventurous and ardent spirits who 
wander undaunted among hostile tribes ... in search of knowledge” focus their 
observation. Although Colonel Jackson favored the physical and natural phenome- 
na, the geographical configuration, meteorology, mineral riches and production 
of the country he examined, he was also keen to observe the lifestyle of the 
inhabitants, their history, art, language, government, religion, and literature, 
according to a methodus apodemica which takes into consideration the study of 
anthropology as well as linguistics, and even comparative religions. In fact, these 
precepts, he stated rather pessimistically, had been forgotten in his time, “when 
we consider the total absence of anything like solid information given to us by the 
legion of those who quit their native country to roam over the various parts of the 
globe.” The principles of the methodus apodemica are usually not at the core of 
modern guidebooks, which limit themselves to a dry inventory of artworks and 
essential sites, often leaving out entirely the ethos of a nation. It is fascinating to 
read the chapter “In Santa Croce with No Baedeker’’ in E. M. Forster’s A Room 
with A View: Lucy’s forced “emancipation’’ from the guidebook leads her to 
discover that the Baedeker “does but touch the surface of things. As to the true 
Italy—he does not even dream of it.’” Without a guidebook, the early-20th-century 
tourist could be forced, alas!, to address the locals and show “a little civility to 
[her] inferiors’’! All in all, “the pernicious charm of Italy’’ will succeed in making 
Lucy happy. 


* * K K 


The following bibliography—which should be considered only as a work in 
progress—was compiled from several sources, including the often unreliable 
Bibliothéque universelle des voyages by Gilles Boucher de la Richarderie (Paris, 
1808, reprinted by Slatkine in 1970) and Leopold von Berchtold’s An Essay to 
direct and extend the inquiries of patriotic travellers; with further observation on 
the means of preserving the life, health, & properties of the unexperienced in their 
journeys. ... To which is annexed a list of English and foreign works intended for 
the instruction and benefit of travellers, and a catalogue of the most interesting 


16. Saint-Evremont, Sir Politick Would-Be, éd. R. Finch et E. Joliat (Paris: Droz, 1978), 
pp. 57-58. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 651 


European travels ... from the earliest times down to September 8th, 1787 (London: 
The Author, 1789, in 2 vols.).!” 

My essay had already been completed when I was made aware of an important 
book that overlapped and developed the theme I have studied here. Justin Stagl’s 
Apodemiken: eine rdsonnierte Bibliographie des reisetheoretischen Literatur des 
16., 17. und 18. Jahrhunderts (Paderborn: F. Schoningh, 1983) had escaped my 
attention, but I decided to go ahead with the publication of my bibliography of 
methodus apodemica texts, marking with an asterisk Mr. Stagl’s additions to the 
items I had originally gathered. 


Vanderbilt University 


A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF TEXTS 
ON RENAISSANCE METHODUS APODEMICA 


[BL: British Library; BN: Bibliothéque Nationale; NUC: National Union Catalog; BdlR: 
Gilles Boucher de la Richarderie, Bibliotheque universelle des voyages. Paris, 1808; JS: 
Justin Stag], Apodemike: Eine rdsonnierte Bibliographie der reisetheoretischen Literatur 
... Paderborn, 1983.] 


*1538 Fortius Ringelbergius [Joachim Sterck van Ringelberg]. “Mutandum esse 
subinde locum” in De ratione studii liber vere aureus, ed. Thomas 
Erpenius. Leiden, 1622. 
other editions: Leiden, 1633, 1634. 


1540s?. Girolamo Cardano. Proxeneta, seu de prudentia civili and Precepta ad 
filios in Opera omnia. Lyon: Huguetan & Ruaud, 1663, I. 
numerous editions in the 17th century 


*1545 Georg Fabricius. “Hypomnemata hodceporika ad Christophorum Leusch- 
nerum in Italiam euntem” in Nathan Cythreus, Hodaeporica, sive Itinera 
Frankfurt: 


1548. Bernardus Holtorpius. De peregrinatione ... Stanislai a Lasco. In Acade- 
mia Regii Montis: I. Weinreich 


1549. Jacques Bonjour. Lucubrationum primitie. Orationum libri Ill ... De 
peregrinatione omnium etatum .... Paris: L. Begat 


17. Of this work there is a German translation, Anweisung fiir Reisende, nebst einer 
systematischen Sammlung zweckmdssiger und niitzicher Fragen (Braunschweig: in der 
Schulbuchhandlung, 1791), and a French translation, Essai pour diriger et étendre les 
recherches des voyageurs qui se proposent l’utilité de leur patrie ... (Paris: du Pont, 1797). 


652 


1553; 


1561. 


*1566 


1567. 


LUIGI MONGA 


Thomas Wilson. Arte of Rhetorique for the use of all such as are studious 
of eloquence. London: R. Graftonus [BL] 

other editions: 1560: London: J. Kingston (also 1562, 1567, 1580, 1584); 
1567: London: G. Robinson 

modern editions: Oxford: Clarendon, 1929 

Gainsville, FL: Scholars’ Facsimiles & Reprints, 1962 

Amsterdam: Theatrum Orbis Terrarum, 1969 


Guilhelmus Gratarolus. De regimine iter agentium vel equitum vel 
peditum, vel navi vel curru rheda ... viatoribus et peregrinatoribus 
quibusque utilissimi. Argentorati [Strasbourg]: V. Rihelium 

medical instructions for travelers; ch. XIx of Book I is on “Cautela quedam in 
itinere atque hospitii habendz, deque curru seu rheda” (pp. 109-133) 

BL quotes an edition with the same title published in Basel the same year 
Milan’s Biblioteca Braidense has the same edition with the date of 1563 
Re-issued as Proficiscentium, seu magnis itineribus diversas terras obeuntium 
medicina quibuscumque valetudinis incommodis depellendis apprime necessaria. 
Colonie, P. Horst, 1571. 

The De regimine was reprinted in De arte peregrinandi. Nuremberg, 1591. 
Gratarolus is the author of De memoria reparanda, augenda servandaque ac de 
reminiscentia: tutiora omnimoda remedia, preceptionesque optimas breviter 
continens opusculum (Tuguri: Gesner & Wissenbach, 1553; Rome, 1553, 1558; 
Frankfurt, 1596; also printed in Henrik Rantzau, De conservanda valetudine. 
Frankfurt: N. Hoffmann, 1604) 

English translation by William Fulwood, The Castel of Memorie wherein is 
contayned the restoryng, augmentyng, and conservyng of the memorye and 
remembraunce, wyth the safest remedyes, and best preceptes thereunto in any wise 
apperteyning (London 1563 and 1573). 


Laurentius Gryllus. Oratio de peregrinatione studii medicinalis ergo 
suscepta, deque summa utilitate eius medicine partis que medicamentorum 
simplicium facultates explicat. S.1. 

Other editions: Prag, 1566 


Vict. Hultius. Descriptio ..... Nuremberg: 
[quoted by BdIR, but not in BL/NUC] 


1570-71. William Cecil, Lord Burghley. Letter to Edward Manners, Earl of 


1574. 


Rutland, in State Papers, Elizabeth, 1547-1580, vol. LXxvi, no. 6. 


Hieronymus Turler [Turlerus]. De peregrinatione et agro neapolitano libri 
II, omnibus peregrinantibus utiles ac necessarii, nunc primum editi. 
Argentorati [Strasbourg]: B. Jobin 

also reprinted in De arte peregrinandi, 1591 

1575: English translation: The traveiler, divided in two bookes, the first conteining 
a notable discourse of the maner and order of traveiling oversea or into strange 


* 1575 


1576?. 


1577. 


1577. 


1578. 


1578. 


1579. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 653 


and foreign countries, the second comprehending an excellent description of the 
most delicious realme of Naples in Italy, a work very pleasant for all persons to 
reade and rightly profitable and necessarie untoall such as are minded to traveyll. 
London: W. How for A. Veale 

Other edit.: see 1591 De arte peregrinandi 

Modern edition: Gainesville, FL: Scholars’ Facsimiles & Reprints, 1951. 


Georg Fabricius. “Hypomnemata hodceporika ad Christophorum Leusch- 
nerum in Italiam euntem” in Nathan Cythreus, Hodacporica, sive Itinera 
Frankfurt: 


Other edition: in Nicolaus Reusner’s Hodaeporicum. Basel, 1580 


William Bourne. A Regiment for the Sea: Conteyning ... Rules, mathemati- 
cal experiences, and perfect knowledge of navigation, for allcoastes and 
countries .... London: T. Dawson and T. Gardyner for I. Wight 

Other editions: London: T. East for I. Wight, 1587; T. East for T. Wight, 1592 
[“newly corrected and amended by Thomas Hood”]; London: 1596 [BL], 1611, 
1620 


Theodor Zwinger [Zvingerus]. Methodus apodemica in eorum gratiam 
qui cum fructu in quocunque tandem vite genere peregrinari cupiunt ... 
et cum aliis tum quatuor presertim Athenarum vivis exemplis illustrata. 
Basel: E. Episcopius. 

Other edition: Strasburg: L. Zetzner, 1594 

English translation: Thomas Palmer. An essay of the meanes how to make our 
travailes more profitable. London: Lowenes, 1606 


Hilarius Pyrckmair. Commentariolus de arte apodemica, seu vera peregri- 
nandi ratione. Ingolstadt: 

also reprinted in A. Meier’s Methodus describendi ..., in De arte peregrinandi, 
1587 [BdIR mentions an edition in 1571] 


Justus Lipsius. De ratione cum fructu peregrinandi, et presertim in Italia 
(Letter to Philippe Lanoye, 3 April 1578) in Epistole selecte (Paris, 
1610). 

English translation: Sir John Stradling. A direction for travailers taken out of 
Justus Lipsius, and enlarged for the behoofe of the right honorable Lord, the yong 
Earle of Bedford, being now ready to travell. London: Burbie, 1592. 


William Bourne. A booke called the Treasure for traveilers, devided into 
five books or partes, contayning very necessary matters for all sortes of 
travailers, either by sea or by land. London: T. Woodcocke 


Haly Heron. «Of Travell» in A New Discourse of Morall Philosophie 
entitules The Kayes of Counsaile. London: R. Newberie 


654 


1587. 


1587. 


1588. 


1591. 


1591.? 


1591. 


1592. 


*1593. 


1595. 


LUIGI MONGA 


Albert Meier [Albertus Meierus]. Methodus describendi regiones, urbes 
et arces, et quid singulis locis precipue in peregrinationibus homines 
nobiles ac docti animadvertere, observare et annotare debeant. Helm- 
stedt: 

extremely rare: one copy in the British Library: 568.b.8(1) 

English translation: Philip Jones. Certaine briefe and speciall instructions for 
gentlemen, merchants, students, souldiers, marriners, etc. employed in services 
abroad or anie way occasioned to converse in the kingdomes and governementes 
of forren princes. London: J. Woolfe, 1589. 


Stephanus Vinandus Pighius. Hercules prodicius, seu principis juventutis 
vita et peregrinatio. Antwerp: C. Plantin 
pp. 131-138: debate on the virtues the prince should acquire by traveling 


Henrik Rantzau [Henricus Ranzovinus]. Methodus apodemica, seu 
peregrinandi perlustrandique regiones, urbes et arces ratio .... Argentinz: 
contains also: G. Loysius’s Pervigilium Mercurii 

other edition: Argentine, 1608 [printed with Pervigilium Mercurii] 

also printed in: Th. Crenius, De eruditione comparanda, 1699 


John Florio. A dialogue in Second Frutes to be gathered of twelve trees 
of divers but delightsome tastes to the tongues of Italians and Englishmen. 
London: T. Woodcock (p. 91) 

modern edition: Gainsville, FL: Scholars’ Facsimiles & Reprints, 1953 


Robert Greene. Greene’s Mourning Garment given him by repentance. 
London: J. Wolfe for T. Newman 
other editions: 1600, 1602, 1607, 1611, 1616, 1631 


Auctores varil. De arte peregrinandi. Nuremberg: 

contains: Pyrckmair’s Commentariolus de arte apodemica, Turler’s De peregrina- 
tione, Gratarolo’s De regimine iter agentium and Philalete Polytopiensis’s 
[Ortensio Landi] Questiones forciane, hoc est de variis italorum ingeniis et de 
muliebris sexus prestantia 

BdIR mentions an edition of 1599 


Paul Hentzer. /tinerarium Germania, Gallia, Anglia, Italia. Nurnberg: 
Abraham Wagermann. 

contains a short “Tabella delineans in peregrinationibus potissimum observanda” 
(see our appendix) 


M. Junius. “Utrum peregrinationes sint bene constituta in republica permit- 
tend?” 


Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex. “Profitable instructions for Roger 
Manners, earl of Rutland” (BL, Harl. MS 6265). 


see: Robert Devereux. Profitable instructions.... London: B. Fisher, 1633. 


1595.? 


1598. 


1600?. 


1601. 


1601. 


1604. 


1604. 


1605.? 


1605. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 655 


William Davison [secr. of Queen Elizabeth], “Instructions for Travel” 
(British Library, Harl. MS 6893). 


Georgius Loysius. Pervigilium Mercurii, in quo agitur de prestantissimis 
peregrinantis virtutibus et qua ratione unusquisque citra majorem difficul- 
tatem exteras peragrare provincias, regiones adire exoticas et cum cujusvis 
conditionis hominibus, bene et honeste conversari possit. Curie Varisco- 
rum, ex officina Pfeilsmidiana. 

other edition: 1600. Spire: B. Albin 

also published in: H. Rantzau, Methodus apodemica (Argentine, 1608); 

G. Hegenitius, /tinerarium frisio-hollandicus (Lugduniz Bataviorum [Leyden]: 
H. Verbiest, 1661 and 1667); 

Thomas Crenius, De eruditione comparanda (Lugduni Bataviorum: A. de Swarte 
and H. Teeringh, 1699). 


“A True Description and Direction of What is most worthy to be seen in 
all Italy” (Harleian Miscellany, V, n° 128). 


Robert Johnson. “Of Travell” in Essaies or Rather imperfect offers. 
London: J. Windet for J. Barnes. 

other editions: London, 1607, 1613, 1638 

modern edition: Gainesville, FL: Scholars’ Facsimile and Reprints, 1955 


Philippus Ohmius. Disputatio ... de peregrinatione recte instituenda see: 
M. T. Sagittarius, Disputationes politice .... 1605 


Joannes Pitseus. De peregrinatione libri vil, jam primum in lucem editt. 
Diisseldorf: B. Busium [BN] 
BdlR calls the author Putsius 


V. P. F. Henry Castela. La Guide et adresse pour ceux qui veullent faire 
le S. Voiage de Hierusalem, par *** Tolosain, Religieux observantin et 
confesseur des Dames religieuses 4 Bordeaux. Paris: Laurent Sonnius. 
other edition: Paris: L. Sonnius, 1612 

contains usefuls advice for travelers 

other editions: Le Sainct voyage de Hierusalem et du Mont Sinay, faict en l’an 
du grand jubilé 1600. Paris: L. Sonnius, 1603; Bordeaux: P.-A. Du Brel, 1603 


Salomon Neugebauer. Tractatus de peregrinatione methodo naturali 
conscriptus ac historicis, ethicis, politicisque exemplis illustratus ... cum 
indice rerum et exemplorum. Basel: S. Henricpetrus [BL] 


Robert Dallington. A method for travell, shewed by taking the view of 
France as it stood in the yeare of our Lord 1598. London: T. Creede 


656 


1606. 


1608. 


1608. 


1608.? 


1611.? 


1611. 


1611. 


1617. 


1617. 


LUIGI MONGA 


Thomas Palmer. An Essay of the meanes how to make our travailes into 
forraine countries the more profitable and honourable. London: H. L. for 
M. Lownes the running title is The Travailer 


Heinrich Rantzau [Henricus Ranzovinus]. Methodus apodemica, seu 
peregrinandi perlustrandique regiones, urbes et arces ratio ... nunc typis 
denuo recusa. Strasbourg: 

Printed with G. Loysius’s Pervigilium Mercurii [see 1598] 

also in: T. Crenius [Thomas Theodorus Crusius], De eruditione comparanda. 1699 


Philippus Honorius [Julius Bellus]. Hermes politicus, sive de peregrinato- 
ria prudentia. Frankfurt: J. T. Schoénwetter [BN, BL] 


Johannes Henner. Politischer diskurs de arte apodemica. Tibingen: 
[not in NUC/BN] 


Rod. a Diskau. Oratio cur viro genere nobili instituenda sit peregrinatio. 
Jena: [not in NUC/BN/BL] 


Hieronymus Elverus. Delici@ apodemice: hoc est, selectiorum discursuum 
ethico-politicorum sylloge epistolica, natain peregrinatione. Leipzig: M. 
Lantzenberger 


Hermann Kirchner. An Oration... concerning this subjet: that young men 
ought to travell into forraine countryes, and all those that desire the praise 
of learning and atchieving worthy actions both at home and abroad; An 
Oration in praise of travell in general — An Oration in praise of the travel 
in Germany in particular, in Coryate’s Crudities. 

the original is in Kirchner’s Orationes XxvI... quorum unum contrarias, alterum 
panegyricas continet [«Italicam peregrinationem fructuosissimam esse», pp. 159- 
273]. Marpurgi: apud P. Egenolphum, 1617 


Fynes Moryson. An Itinerary, Contayning His Ten Yeers Travell through 
the dominions of Germany, Bohmerland, Sweitzerland, Netherland, 
Danmark, Poland, Italy, Turky, France, England, Scotland, and Ireland. 
London: J. Beale 

Part I, book I, ch. I: “That the visiting of forraigne Countries is good and 
profitable, but to whom and how farre?” (pp. 1-11); ch. 0: “Of Precepts for Trav- 
ellers, which may instruct the unexperienced” (pp. 11-37) 

modern reprint: Amsterdam: Theatrum Orbis Terrarum; New York: Da Capo 
Press, 1971 [facsimile edition] 


Hermann Kirchner. Orationes xxxvi duobus voluminibus comprehense, 
quorum unum contrarias, alterum panegyricas continet. Marpurgi: P. 
Egenolphus 

some of these orationes, however, had been previously known: see Coryate’s 
Crudities of 1611 


1617. 


1617. 


1619. 


1622. 


1624. 


1625. 


1629. 


1630. 


1632. 
1633. 


1633. 


1638. 


1638. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 657 


Johannes Blumius. Dissertatio de utili peregrinante et peregrinatione. 
Vienne: [not in BL] 


Christobal Suarez de Figueroa. E/ passagero. Madrid: L. Sanchez 
other edition: Barcelona: G. Margarit, 1618 


Daniel Gruberius. Discursus historico-politicus de peregrinatione studio- 
sorum. Strasburg 

also in P. Hentzer, /tinerarium Germanie, Gallia, ... 

other edition: Jena, 1714 


Petrus Bonnemannus. Disputatio de apodemica .... Gryphiswaldi [Greifs- 
wald]: J. Albinus [BL] 


----. Monita peregrinatoria duorum eruditissimorum virorum, added on 
to Paul Hetzner’s Itinerarium. [in BdIR, but not in BN] 


Francis Bacon. “Of Travaile” in The Essayes or Counsels, civill and 
morall, newly enlarged. London: J. Haviland for H. Barret and R. 
Whitaker. 

numerous editions and translations in several languages: just for the 17th century, 
14 more in English, one in Latin, German, and Dutch, three in French, and four 
in Italian, one of which published in London (1618) 


Mattheus Bernegger. Discursus historicus-politicus, seu Dissertatio de 
peregrinationibus studiosorum. Strasburg: 


Baptist Goodall. The tryall of travell. London: J.. Norton [a poem] 
other edition: London, 1639 


Francesco Belli. Osservazioni sul viaggio. Venice: Pinelli. 


Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, sir Philip Sydney, William David- 
son. Profitable instructions describing what speciall observations are to 
be taken by travellers in all nations, states, and countries. London: B. 
Fisher 

contains: “Most notable and excellent instructions for traveilers” by W. Davidson; 
“The late Earl of Essex his advice to the Earl of Rutland in his travels” (4 january 
1596); “A letter to the same purpose to his brother Robert” 


Martin de Hoyarsabal. Les Voyages aventureux ... contenant les reigles 
et enseignemens nécessaires G la bonne et seure navigation. Bourdeaux: 


[J. Blumius?], Brief discours de la maniére de voyager, traduit de 
l’allemand en frangois par Maistre Yves Dugué. Bourges: chez la veufve 
de Maurice Levez. [BN; neither in NUC nor BL] 


Samuel? Zwicker. Breviarium apodemicum methodice concinnatum. 
Gedani: Typis Rhetianis. 


658 


1640. 


1642. 


1642. 


1643. 


LUIGI MONGA 


Johann Conrad Dieterich. Discursus historicus-politicus de peregrinatione 
studiosorum .... Marpurg: K. Chemlin 


----. Instructions about travels, shewing how and in what compass of time 
London: _ [BdlR] 


[James Howell]. Instructions for forreine travell, shewing by what cours, 
and in what compasse of time one may take an exact survey of the King- 
domes and States of Christendome, and arrive to the practicall knowledge 
of the Languages London: T. B. for Humphrey Mosley 

other edition: London, 1650 


Paganino Gaudenzio. Della peregrinazione philosophica: trattatello con 
un’aggiunta geografica. Pisa: [BdIR calls the author Gaudenzio Saga- 
mino} 


1643-44 David Froélich. Bibliotheca, seu cynosura peregrinantium, hoc est Viato- 


1648. 


1650. 


*1650. 


1651. 


1660. 


rium ... in duas partes digestum: quarum prior ... complectitur: I. Centu- 
riam cum decuria problematum apodemicorum. II. Multiplicia perecrina- 
tionis precepta. III. Methodum rerum explorandarum. IV. Indicem viarum, 
etc. Posterior pars exhibet: I. Geographiam apodemicam. II. Historiogra- 
phiam apodemicam. III, Diarium apodemicum perpetuum, etc. IV. 
Precationes et hymnos apodemicos. Ulm: 2 vol. 

BdIR calls the author Daniel Froelich 


Frangois de la Mothe Le Vayer. De l’utilité des voyages. De l’inutilité 
des voyages, in Petits traités en forme de lettre. Paris: 

modern edition: Deux dialogues de L. M. L. V. ("Utilité et inutilité des voyages"). 
Paris: Brossard, 1922 


Francois du Soucy, sieur de Gersan. L’Art de voyager utilement, oi l’on 
apprend a se rendre capable de bien servir son Prince, sa patrie et soy- 
mesmes. Paris: Jean Bessin. 


Gottfried Zamelius [Zamehl]. Studiosus apodemicus, sive de peregri- 
nationibus studiosorum discursus politicus. Groningen: 
Other editions: Leiden, 1651; Bremen, 1651 


Martin Zeiller. “Instructions ...” in his Itinerary of Germany. Ulm: 
BdlR: “Instructions pour profiter des voyages (en allemand)” dans 1’/tineraire de 
l’Allemagne 


Samuel Sorbiére. De l’utilité des grands voyages et de la lecture des 
Relations, in Lettres et Discours sur diverses matieres curieuses {Lettre 
Ixxxili, pp. 641-660]. Paris: 


1661. 


1665. 


1665. 


1670. 


1671. 


1671. 


1671. 


1674. 
1678. 


1679. 


1681. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 659 


Letter by Chapelaine to Bernier (13 November 1661) on the areas in which 
he must exercise his curiosity, when traveling. 


Balthasar Gerbier d’Ouvilly. Subsidium peregrinationibus, or An assis- 
tance to a traveller in his converse with Hollanders, Germans, Venetians, 
Italians, Spaniards, French, etc. Oxford: R. Gascoigne 


Dethleff Brocktorff. Disquisitio politica de prudentia peregrinantis. 
Helmstadt: H. Miller 
other edition: Helmstadt: H. D. Miiller, 1677 


Sylvain Dufour. Instruction d’un Pere a son fils qui part pour un voyage. 
Geneva: 


George Meriton. “Certain precepts & Observations for Those That Do 
Intend To Travell” in A Geographical Description of the World. London: 
W. Leake, p. 441-445. 
other editions: 1674, 1679 


Edward Leigh. Three diatribes or discourses. First, of travel, or A guide 
for travellers into forein parts. Second, of money .... Third, of measuring 
of the distances betwixt place and place. London: 

modern edition in The Harleian Miscellany, vol. X (1808). 


Georgius Hornius. Ulyssea, sive studiosus peregrinans, omnia lustrans 
littora. Leyden: 
other editions: Frankfurt and Leipzig, 1672 


Thomas Bartolinus. De peregrinatione medica. Hafnie: D. Paulli 


Johann Fabricius. De utilitate quam theologie@ studiosus capere potest 
ex itinere in Italiam. Leipzig: 


Sylvestre Dufour. Instruction morale d’un pére a un fils qui part pour 
un long voyage, ou Maniére aisée de former un jeune homme @ toutes 
sortes de vertus, suivi de cent maximes chrestiennes et morales. Paris: 
G. Quinet. 

contains methodological advice 

BdIR calls the author Sylvain and has the book published in Geneva in 1670 


Louis du May. Le Prudent Voyageur, contenant la description politique 
de tous les Etats du monde et particulierement de |’Europe, ou sont 
methodiquement et exactement depeintes toutes les maisons royales et 
autres familles illustres de France, d’Allemagne, d’Espagne, d’Italie, etc, 
leur origine, leur progrez et l’etat present ou elles se trouvent. Geneve: 
Jean Herman Widerhold. 


660 


1682. 


1682. 


1682. 


1685. 


1686. 


1687. 
1688. 


1691. 


1691. 


1691. 


1693. 


LUIGI MONGA 


W.H. The infallible guide to Travellers, or direct independants, giving 
a most exact account of the four principal roads to England. London: 
T. B. 


Jean de Prechac. Le Fameux voyageur. Paris: chez la veuve d’ Antoine 
Padeloup. 


Pierre d’Imbert. Le Voyage ou la Conduite du dévoyé a la Vraye Eglise, 
par les principes de la lumiere naturelle pour n’en plus sortir ... Paris: 
Veuve de Jacques Boiillerot. 

a religious treatise adapted from methodus apodemica 


Gottlob Voltz. Ideam studiosi ro\vpaobepov ad altiorem sapientiam 
aspirantis breviusculi thesibus comprehensam, publice ... eruditorum 
censure. Rostochii: 


Charles-César Baudelot de Dairval. De l’utilité des voyages et de l’avan- 
tage que la recherche des antiquitez procure aux sgavans. Memoire de 
quelques observations générales qu’on peut faire pour ne pas voyager 
inutilement. Paris: Pierre Auboiiin et Pierre Emery. 

BdIR has it published in Paris, 1656 and 1693, with an edition in Rouen, 
1700 


Johann Friedrich Heckel. Dissertatiuncula de peregrinatione. Rudulfopoli 


?. Stomart. Jdea studiosi peregrinantis. Leipzig: 
probably the Voltz’s volume as mispelled by BdlR [not in BN/NUC/BL] 


> 


Daniel Gruber. “Discursus de peregrinatione studiosorum,” in Paul 
Hentzer, /tinerarium. Leipzig: 
contains the “Tabula peregrinationis continens capita politica” by Hugo Plotius: 


questions on the political systems of the area described 


M. Haynovius. Dissertatio politica de peregrinatione. Regensburg: 
Translations: 1698. L’art de voyager utilement. Amsterdam: 

1699. The art of travelling to advantage in B. de las Casas, First voyages and 
discoveries made by the Spaniards in America. London: 


Johannes Philippus Lung. De peregrinatione academica .... Argentorati: 
Staedel 


Charles-César Baudelot de Dairval. L’Utilité des voyages qui concerne 
la connoissance des médailles, inscriptions, dieux lares, peintures an- 
ciennes et bas-reliefs, pierres precieuses et gravées, cachets, talismans, 
anneaux, manuscrits, langues et autres choses remarquables, et l’avantage 
que la recherche de toutes ces antiquitez procure aux s¢avans; avec un 


1699. 


1699. 


1700. 


1706. 


1764. 


A Bibliography of Renaissance Hodoeporics (1500-1700) 661 


Mémoire de quelques observations générales qu’on peut faire pour ne pas 
voyager inutilement. Paris: P. Aboiin 
other edition: Rouen, 1700. 


Thomas Theodorus Crusius [Thomas Crenius] De eruditione comparanda 
in humanioribus, vita, studio politico, cognitione auctorum ecclesiasti- 
corum, historicorum, politicorum ac militarium, item Peregrinatione 
tractatus Joach. Camerarii, Johann. Fungeri, Arnoldi Clapmarii, Chris- 
toph. Coleri, Joh. Andr. Bosii, Gabr. Naud@i {et al., e.g., G. Loysius]. 
Leyden: A. De Swarte & H. Teeringh 


J. S. de Reuschenberg. Abrégé du devoir d’un jeune cavalier voyageur. 
sis 


Andrew Balfour. Letters written to a friend, containing excellent direc- 
tions and advices for travelling thro’ France and Italy, with many curious 
and judicious remarks and observations made by himself in his voyages 
thro’ these countreys. Edinburgh: 


Johann Heinrich Bosche. De peregrinatione docta rite instituenda.... 
Rostochii: 


Richard Hurd. Dialogues on the uses of foreign travel, considered as a 
part of an English gentleman’s education .... London: A. Millar; Cam- 
bridge: W. Thurlbourn & J. Woodyer 


662 LUIGI MONGA 


TABELLA DELINEANS IN PEREGRINATIONIBUS POTISSIME OBSERVANDA 


IL. Deus inprimis invocandus, quod nullus possit itineris esse comes expeditior & 
securior; atque pig huic devotioni inter alia precesque plurimum inservient Psal. 
91, 126, 127,,.& 139. vetera 
II. Regio, in qua consideranda nomina /|recentia 
sepe mutata. 
Ill. Nomen urbis & ratio nominis, si extet, item conditor, amplificator aut instaurator 
alicujus loci. 
IV: Conditio hominum superiorum 
inferiorum. 
allabentia 
1. Flumina, eaque aut _ | propre distantia 
deducta. 
V. | 2. Mare alluens, aut portus, 
3. Montes, 
4. Sylvz, nemora, vel si quid aliud insigne. 
Basilice 
Sacra |Monasteria 
Templa 
{ Palatia 
Publica Arces 
Fora 
VI. Opera, & hec vel Profana | Armamentaria 
Propugnacula 
Turres, & 
Ratio munitionis. 
Privata, ut que Horti 
in civium 2dibus Picture 
sunt insigna, veluti Fontes 
Statue 


1. Curia, in qua Senatores, et familie 
civium honestiores 
VII. Ratio gubernationis, 2. Scholz, ut ratio educandi & instituendi 
ad quam pertinent pueros; item Viri docti ac Bibliothece 
3. Vulgi mores, quo pertinet ratio 
Victus & vestitus; item opificia 


(from Paul Hentzer, Itineraria Germania, Gallia, Anglia, Italia. Noriberge, Typis Abrahami 
Wagenmanni, 1592). 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


A Bibliography of North-American 
Dissertations on Travel (1961-1995) 


The following bibliography lists all dissertations written about travel literature 
between 1961 and 1995. The term “travel literature,” however, requires some 
clarification. During the span of this study, travel literature has evolved into a 
genre in and of itself--a genre which transcends rigid classification within any one 
specific field. As a result, this bibliography includes dissertations from various 
fields such as literature, history, philosophy, religion, and women’s studies. Such 
diversity renders elusive a true definition of the genre, for various scholars 
interpret the term “travel literature” differently: a historian may consider a ship’s 
log documenting an actual voyage to be travel literature; a literary scholar may 
include a novel about travel, such as Gulliver’s Travels, under that heading; a 
philosopher may approach the genre from a metaphysical angle, in which the 
journey becomes a metaphor for spiritual and intellectual pursuits. 

Thus, it is necessary to offer a brief explanation of my methodology. In order 
to compile this list, I conducted a key-word search on the Dissertation Abstract 
International cd-rom, using the words “travel,” “voyage,” and “journey”; the 
several hundred abstracts contained in the resulting printout fall into two different 
groups. The first group includes dissertations which focus specifically on the 
concept of travel from practical, artistic, theoretical, or symbolic perspectives. 
These dissertations endeavor either to explore what it means to travel and what 
constitutes a voyage, or to interpret travel’s impact on issues of economics, 
politics, artistry, spirituality, etc. The second group consists of dissertations 
which refer obliquely to travel, but which do not critically engage the concept 
itself. This bibliography does not list entries in the second group, for I do not 
feel that they treat “travel literature” as a genre. Gulliver’s Travels, for example, 
may qualify as a piece of travel literature, detailing as it does a series of voyages. 
However, a dissertation which uses Gulliver’s Travels to offer a feminist reading 
of eighteenth-century England, and which ignores the journey aspect of the novel, 
does not qualify as a dissertation on travel literature. 

The first part of the bibliography catalogs the entries in ascending 
chronological order. This allows us to note trends, both quantitative and 
qualitative, in the development of travel literature as a genre. On the quantitative 
side, for instance, the sudden surge, beginning in the early 1980’s, in the number 


Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


664 RISA K. NYSTROM 


of dissertations written about travel literature reflects the growing debates about 
literary canon and the subsequent elasticity regarding what constitutes “literature.” 
Qualitatively, the early 1980’s also see a change in the types of travel dissertations 
being written, as they begin to focus more heavily on theoretical, post-colonial, 
and feminist issues surrounding travel. 

The second part of the bibliography indexes the entries into various categories. 
Some of the categories suggest themselves, such as a chronological breakdown of 
the journeys themselves, or the origins and destinations of the voyages. The 
critical categories are not the result of any scientific methodology; I chose them 
simply because they jumped out at me as I was compiling the list of entries. I 
applied only one criterion as I developed these categories: a heading must contain 
at least three dissertations in order to qualify as a category. Like the 
chronological listing, these groupings reveal trends in the development of travel 
literature as a field: in the category “Travel Literature and Women,” for 
example, the large majority of entries were written from the early 1980’s on. 
Likewise, the majority of dissertations in which the journey originated in Asia or 
the Middle East were written more recently. However, we must be careful about 
the conclusions we draw from these listings: we might be tempted to interpret the 
fact that the majority of voyages originated in England and the United States as 
an indication that the British and Americans traveled more than their European or 
Eastern counterparts. However, this trend probably reflects more accurately the 
fact that all but a few of these dissertations were written in North American 
universities, and are written in English. A few foreign language entries appear, 
but only if the abstract itself was written in English. 

This bibliography does not attempt to provide that elusive definition of “travel 
literature” hinted at earlier, nor does it seek to offer any of its own conclusions 
regarding trends and developments. Rather, it is meant to serve as a tool for 
scholars of voyage literature to use in their own pursuits of definitions and 
conclusions. The categories I have identified should be regarded as a starting 
point for the creation of other categories; the criteria I have used in deciding 
which dissertations to include should generate rather than answer questions 
regarding what constitutes travel literature. 


1961 

1. Foulke, Robert Dana. “Conrad’s Sea World: The Voyage Fiction and the British 
Merchant Service.” University of Minnesota. 

Khuri, Musa. “The Straddlers: A Critical Study of the British Political-Literary 
Middle East Travel Writers, 1900-1950.” Florida State University. 


N 


1964 
3: Fahey, William Arthur. “The Travel Books of Norman Douglas.” New York 


1969 


1970 


1971 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 665 


University. 
Muerbe, Hans Joachim. “The American Image of Germany Set Forth in 
Nineteenth-Century Travel Books.” Ohio State University. 


Wyly, Ralph Donald, Jr. “The Travel Books of Norman Douglas.” Ohio State 
University. 


Hall, Donald Ray. “Lamartine’s Mirage of the East: The Voyage en Orient, 1832- 
1833.” Yale University. 

Moore, Thurston Maxwell. “Samuel Johnson, and the Literature of Travel.” 
University of Michigan. 

Ursul, George Richard. “The Greek Church in the English Travel Literature of the 
Nineteenth Century.” Harvard University. 


Opoku, Samuel Kwaku. “The Image of Africa, 1660-1730.” Princeton University. 


Dean, James L. “Howells’ Travel Writing: Theory and Practice.” University of 
New Mexico. 

Rowan, Mary Madeline. “An Image of Asia: Analysis of Six Seventeenth-Century 
French Travel Accounts of Siam.” Harvard University. 

Safady, Issam. “Attempt and Attainment: A Study of Some Literary Aspects of 
Doughty’s Arabia Deserta as the Culmination of Late-Victorian Anglo-American 
Travel Books to the Levant.” University of Kentucky. 


Rodgers, Joseph James, Jr. “Father Jean-Baptiste Labat and French Travel 
Literature.” University of Southern California. 


Cooke, Judith Louise. “David Copperfield’s Voyage of Discovery: Theme and 
Imagery.” University of Louisville. 

Curley, Thomas Michael. “Samuel Johnson and the Age of Travel.” Harvard 
University. 

Kneedler, Alvin Richard. “Homo-Viator: The Use of the Travel Motif in 
Eighteenth-Century French Prose Fiction.” University of Pennsylvania. 

Pauly, Thomas Harry. “The Travel Sketch-Book and the American Author: A 
Study of the European Travelogues of Irving, Longfellow, Hawthorne, Howells, 
and James.” University of California, Berkeley. 


Batten, Charles Linwood, Jr. “The Eighteenth-Century English Travel Writer: A 
Study of His Literary Techniques.” University of Chicago. 
Herr, Elena. “Les Origines de l’Espagne Romantique: Les récits de voyage, 1755- 


666 


20. 


21. 


pam 


23. 


1972 
24. 


25. 
26. 
27. 


28. 


1973 
29. 


30. 
31. 


32. 


33. 


34. 
35. 


36. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


1823.” University of Chicago. 

Medeiros, Patricial McClintock. “The Literature of Travel of Eighteenth-Century 
America.” University of Massachusetts. 

Metwalli, Ahmed Mohamed. “The Lure of the Levant. The American Literary 
Experience in Egypt and the Holy Land: A Study in the Literature of Travel, 1800- 
1865.” State University of New York at Albany. 

Tenney, Thomas Asa. “Mark Twain’s Early Travels and the Travel Tradition in 
Literature.” University of Pennsylvania. 

Wagner, Frederick. “Travel Writing About the British Isles and France in Selected 
American Literary Periodicals, 1865-1890.” Duke University. 


Egloff, Susan J. “Our Dark Voyage: The Journey Motif in Milton’s Poetry.” Yale 
University. 

Flightner, James Arthur. The Spanish Travel Book: 1989-1936. State University 
of New York at Buffalo. 

Franklin, Wayne Steven. “Travelers Through Time: American Fiction and the 
American Travel Book, 1800-1860.” University of Pittsburgh. 

Hackos, Joann Torre. “Defoe’s Tour and the English Travel Narrative. Indiana 
University.” 

Rogers, William Norris, II. “Arabian Involvement: A Study of Five Victorian 
Travel Narratives.” University of California, Berkeley. 


Bacigalupo, Mario Ford. “Spain and Europe in Eighteenth-Century Travel 
Literature: An Aspect of the ‘Leyenda Negra’.” Brown University. 

Caplan, Jay Louis. “The Voyage of the Imaginary.” Yale University. 

Givoiset, Mariette. “L’Exotisme dans les récits de voyage de Théophile Gautier.” 
University of Iowa. 

Kelly, Eileen A. “New World Peoples and Travel Literature in the Encyclopédie. 
University of Notre Dame. 

Loftus, William James. “A Comparison of the Travel Journals of Alphonse de 
Lamartine and Gustave Flaubert: Two Romantics Travel to the Near East.” 
Pennsylvania State University. 

Plutschow, Herbert Eugene. “Japanese Travel Diaries of the Middle Ages.” 
Columbia University. 

Schick, Constance Gosselin. “The World of Théophile Gautier’s Travel Accounts.” 
Pennsylvania State University. 

Simon, Karen Raymer. “‘L’Invitation au Voyage’: La Poétique de l’autre monde 
de Cyrano de Bergerac.” Tufts University. 


1974 
37. 


38. 


39: 
40. 


41. 
42. 


43. 
44. 


45. 


1975 
46. 


47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 


Si. 


1976 
5. 


53 


54. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 667 


Becker, Carolyn Oglesby. “From the Jacobins to the Young Germans: TheLiberal 
Travel Literature in Germany from 1785 to 1840.” University of Wisconsin, 
Madison. 

Grace, Jane Opper. “The Introspective Voyage: An Analysis of the First-Person 
Narrative in Larbaud’s A. O. Barnabooth: Ses GZuvres complétes, Amants, Heureux 
amants, and Mon plus secret conseil.” Columbia University. 

Honhart, Carol Taplett. “Fielding, Smollett, Sterne, and the Development of the 
Eighteenth-Century Travel Book.” Duke University. 

Ingemanson, Birgitta Maria. “On Pushkin and Travel Literature: Puteshestvie V 
Arzrum.” Princeton Unviersity. 

Klish, Richard Michael. “Thackeray’s Travel Writings.” Michigan State University. 
Leki, Ilona Nina. “The Travel Literature of Henri Michaux.” University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign. 

Miller, Lorelei Gae Foster. “Travel Literature in Modern Spain: From Neo- 
classicism to Social Realism.” University of Michigan. 

Moseley, Ann. “The Voyage Perilous: Willa Cather’s Mythic Quest.” University 
of Oklahoma. 

Smith, Carl Sheldon. “Henry James, Henry Adams, and American Travel.” Yale 
University. 


Bresler, Laurence. “The Origins of Popular Travel and Travel Literature in Japan.” 
Columbia University. 

Fielding, Lavinia. “Attitudes Toward Experience in Western Travel Narratives.” 
University of Washington. 

Pankake, Marcia Jean. “Americans Abroad: A Bibliographical Study of American 
Travel Literature.” University of Minnesota. 

Riesen, David Herman. “Retreat into Wilderness: A Study of the Travel Books of 
Five Twentieth-Century British Novelists.” University of Wisconsin, Madison. 
Sattelmeyer, Robert D., Jr. “Away from Concord: The Travel Writings of Henry 
Thoreau.” University of New Mexico. 

Ziegler, John Henry. “The Travel Literature of Frank O’Connor, Sean O’Faolain, 
and Robert Gibbings.” University of Connecticut. 


Chesney, Elizabeth Anne. “The Counter-Voyage of Rabelais and Ariosto: Myth, 
Madness, and Multiplicity.” Duke University. 

Liu, Esther. “Literature as Painting: A Study of the Travel Books of Chiang Yee.” 
University of Northern Colorado. 

Pinker, Michael Joseph. “The Sterne Voyage of the ‘Pequod’: The Tale of a Tub 
in American Literature.” State University of New York at Binghamton. 


668 


52: 


56. 


57. 


1977 
58. 


59. 
60. 
61. 


62. 


1978 
63. 


64. 


1979 
65. 


66. 


67. 


68. 


69. 


70. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


Takhara, Carolyn Fosdick. “Du pittoresque 4 la politique: Le Voyage 4 
Constantinople de Gérard de Nerval, Gustave Flaubert, Maxime du Camp, et 
Théophile Gautier.” Harvard University. 

Tracy, Billy Tobin. “Coasts of Illusion: The Travel Books of D. H. Lawrence.” 
Columbia University. 

Zorach, Cecile Cazort. “Narrative Structures in Twentieth-Century German Travel 
Literature: A Study in Oddities of Odysseys.” Princeton University. 


Bryant, Marcia Langley. “Magnificence and Foppery: France According to 
Eighteenth-Century English Travel Writers.” University of Iowa. 

Hammond, Theresa Ann Mayer. “American Paradise: German Travel Literature 
from Duden to Kisch.” University of California, Berkeley. 

Havera, Nancy Greene. “The Theme of Time-Travel in the Argentine Fantastic 
Short Story.” University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 

Mackle, Elliott James, Jr. “The Eden of the South: Florida’s Image in American 
Travel Literature and Painting 1865-1900.” Emory University. 

Porter, Vicki Gwen. “The West Looks at the East in the Late Middle Ages: The 
Livre des Merveilles du monde”. Johns Hopkins University. 


Kumar, Prem. “Aldoud Huxley’s Voyage of Discovery into Otherness: A Study of 
His Later Novels.” Washington State University. 

Rosenkranz, Joel Harris. “Graham Greene’s Travel Writings: Sources of His 
Fiction.” New York University. 


Bendixen, Alfred. “Americans in Europe Before 1865: A Study of the Travel 
Book.” University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 

Boring, William Clayton. “English Literature of Exploration, Discovery, and 
Travel as Genre: 1509-1625.” New York University. 

Davis, Richard Clarke. “Voyage of Discovery: Twentieth-Century Evolution of the 
Narratves of Wilderness Travel in the Canadian North.” University of New 
Brunswick. 

Lima, Richard Arthur. “The Extraordinary Voyage Genre in Eighteenth-Century 
French Prose Fiction.” University of California, Berkeley. 

Nakhai, Mandana. “The Safar Namih (Travel Journal) of the Persian Nasiar 
Khusrau (A.D. 1003-1072?) Translated into English with an Introduction and 
Notes.” University of Tennessee. 

Sloan, James Murphy. “Mark Twain’s Travel Books: A Study in Form.” Yale 
University. 


1980 
TA 


72. 
73. 
74. 
qd. 
76. 


Tide 


78. 
dD 


80. 


81. 


82. 


1981 
83. 


84. 


85. 


86. 


87. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 669 


Barker, Steven John. “Wallenberg and his English Contemporaries: A Study in 
Affinities.” University of Washington. 

Berben. Jacqueline. “The Quest for Self-Knowledge: A Morphology of the French 
Romantic Voyage to Spain.” University of Texas at Austin. 

Estes, David C. “Thomas Bangs Thorpe’s Sketches of the Old Southwest: A 
Critical Edition.” Duke University. 

Georgoudaki, Ekaterini. “Melville’s Artistic Use of His Journeys to Europe and the 
Near East.” Arizona State University. 

Giltrow, Janet Lesley. “North American Travel Writing.” Simon Fraser 
University. 

Haynes, Jonathan Marshall. “Georgy Sandys’ Relation of a Journey Begun An. 
Dom. 1610: The Humanist as Traveller.” Yale University. 

Hensley, Charlotta Cook. “Andre Norton’s Science Fiction and Fantasy, 1950- 
1979: An Introduction to the Topics of Philosophical Reflection, Imaginary 
Voyages, and Future Prediction in Selected Books for Young Readers.” University 
of Colorado at Boulder. 

Hudson, Jacquelyn Fuller. “West African Journal: A Travel Account.” University 
of North Texas. 

Prader, Susan Marie. “The Narrative Voyage: An Analysis and Interpretation (Acts 
27-28).” Graduate Theological Union. 

Roedel-Cavero, August G. “Retroduction as Narrative Form in Travel Literature 
of the 16th and 17th Centuries: An Essay in the History of Ideas.” University of 
California, San Diego. 

Wanzer, John Douglas. “Moral Travel and Narrative Form in A Journey to the 
Western Islands of Scotland and The Expedition of Humphry Clinker.” Ohio State 
University. 

White, Patrick Edward. “Varieties of Primitivism in the Travel Books of D.H. 
Lawrence, Norman Douglas, and H. M. Tomlinson.” University of Iowa. 


Angstadt, Gwendolyn Ann. “The Form and Rhetoric of the Early American Travel 
Book.” University of Iowa. 

East, Linda Kay Davis. “The Imaginary Voyage: Evolution of the Poetry of 
Delmira Agustini.” Stanford University. 

Fallon, Gretchen Kidd. “British Travel-Books from the Middle East, 1890-1914: 
Conventions of the Genre and Three Unconventional Examples.” University of 
Maryland, College Park. 

Good, Kathleen Flosi. “The Itinerary of Truth in Marivaux’s Voyageur dans le 
Nouveau Monde..” Yale University. 

Robert, Catherine Jean. “Mark Twain’s Traveling Companions: The Emergence 


670 


88. 


1982 
89. 


90. 
91. 
92. 
93. 


94. 


1983 
95. 


96. 
97. 
98. 
99. 


100. 


101. 
102. 


103. 


104. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


of the Persona.” University of Pennsylvania. 

Van den Abbeele, Georges Yves-Francgois. “The Economy of Travel in French 
Philosophical Literature: Montaigne, Descartes, Montesquieu, Rousseau.” Cornell 
University. 


Beyer, Kathleen Collins. “E.M. Forster’s The Hill of Devi: The Themes of Forty 
Years.” University of Kansas. 

Boulton, Nancy Elizabeth. “Early Chinese Buddhist Travel Records as a Literary 
Genre.” Georgetown University. 

Gross, Irena Grudzinska. “Journey Through Bockland: The Travel Memoir in the 
Nineteenth Century.” Columbia University. 

Guentner, Wendelin Ann. “Le Voyage littéraire en Italie: Chateaubriand et 
Stendahl.” University of Chicago. 

Luu, Nguyen Dat. “Au centre du vertige nervalien: Le Voyage en Orient et la mise 
en abyme.” Michigan State University. 

Womochel, La Daonna May. “The Travel Motif in the Middle Border Fiction of 
Hamlin Garland.” Texas Tech University. 


Bogosavljevic, Srdan. “German Literary Travelogues Around the Turn of the 
Century, 1890-1914.” University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 

Bush, Andrew Keith. “Portals of Discovery: Maurice Blanchot, José Lezama Lima, 
Reinaldo Arenas.” Yale University. 

Ellis, Patricia Carol. “The Journey Motif in Fourteen Non-Cyclical Middle English 
Verse Romances.” University of Georgia. 

Egan, Hugh McKeever. “Gentlemen-Sailors: The First-Person Sea Narratives of 
Dana, Cooper, and Melville.” University of Iowa. 

Majer, Irma Staza. “The Notion of Singularity: The Travel Journals of Michel de 
Montaigne and Jean de Léry.” Johns Hopkins University. 

Markham, Sara Hope. “Elusive Prosperity: Images of the United States Conveyed 
in Selected German Travel Literature, 1923-1933.” University of Wisconsin, 
Madison. 

Martini, Paola Maria. “The Image of Italy and the Italian in English Travel Books: 
1800-1901.” University of Washington. 

Naiman, Sandra Madigan. “Sex Differences Among Twenty Modern Travel 
Books.” University of Arkansas. 

Nettles, Margaret Minear. “The Land, the Self, and the Word: Verbal Landscapes 
in William Byrd’s History of the Dividing Line, St. John de Créve-coeur’s Letters 
from an American Farmer, and Washington Irving’s A Tour on the Prairies.” 
University of Georgia. 

Sawyer, Richard James. “The Great Periplus: A Study of the Structure of Ezra 


105. 


106. 


1984 
107. 
108. 
109. 
110. 
111. 
112: 
113: 
114. 
15: 


116. 


117. 
118. 


119. 


1985 
120. 


£21. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 671 


Pound’s Cantos.” University of Toronto. 

Williams, Lyle Thomas. “Journeys to the Center of the Earth: Descent and 
Initiation in Selected Science Fiction.” Indiana University. 

Zupan, Patricia Jean. “‘Per seguir virtute e canoscenza’: The Significance of 
Ulysses’ Final Journey.” Indiana University. 


Beckett, Sandra Lee. “Les Récits de la quéte spirituelle chez Henri Bosco (1950- 
1976): Une Lecture d’Un rameau de la nuit, de L’antiquaire, du Récif, d’Une 
Ombre.” University of Manitoba. 

Bulgin, Kathleen Mather. “The Esthetics of Poetry and of Travel: Gautier’s Espana 
and Voyage en Espagne. Duke University. 

Dwight, Eleanor. “The Influence of Italy on Edith Wharton.” New York 
University. 

Gendron, Charisse. “‘A Sadly Long Strain About Self’: The British Literary Travel 
Book, 1766-1937.” University of Connecticut. 

Javadi, Mohamad. “Iran Under Western Eyes: A Literary Apreciation of Travel 
Books on Iran from 1900 to 1940.” University of Wisconsin, Madison. 
Lacombe, Michele. “Colonialism and Nationalism in English and French-Canadian 
Literary Journals from Montreal 1846-1879.” York University. 

Lobert, Patrick Martin. “‘Lecture’ and ‘Spectature’ of ‘The Book of Christopher 
Columbus’.” University of Michigan. 

Perry, Mack Allen. “Journey Type-Scenes in Anglo-Saxon Poetry.” University of 
Mississippi. 

Schwartz, Ella. “Aspects of Orpheus in Classical Literature and Mythology.” 
Harvard University. 

Tamkin, Linda Ellen. “Heroines in Italy: Studies in the Novels of Ann Radcliffe, 
George Eliot, Henry James, E. M. Forster, and D. H. Lawrence.” University of 
California, Los Angeles. 

Van Sickel, Patricia Lucille. “Diderot’s Supplement au Voyage de Bougainville: A 
Genettian Analysis.” University of Kansas. 

Weinberger, Ava Inez. “The Middle Eastern Writings of James Morier: Traveler, 
Novelist, and Creator of Hajji Baba.” University of Toronto. 

Zane, Kathleen J.C. “Paradigms of Place in Travel Literature: The Oriental 
Voyages of Nerval, Burton, Kinglake, and Chateaubriand.” City University of New 
York. 


Bailey, Brigitte Gabcke. “Pictures of Italy: American Aesthetic Response and the 
Development of the Nineteenth-Century American Travel Sketch.” Harvard 
University. 

Button, Marilyn Demarest. “American Women in the Works of Francis Milton 


672 


122. 
123: 
124. 
125. 
126. 
L27. 
128. 
L299. 
130. 
131. 
132. 


153. 


134. 


1986 
135. 


136. 
137. 
138. 


139. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


Trollope and Anthony Trollope.” University of Delaware. 

Curwin, Joyce Beth. “‘If Only Roads Did End’: The Journey Motif in the Works 
of John Barth.” New York University. 

Dolle, Raymond Francis. “Treasure Quests in New World Literature.” 
Pennsylvania State University. 

Garvey, Johanna Xandra Kathryn. “City Voyages: Consciousness and Reflexivity 
in the Modern Novel.” University of California, Berkeley. 

Hait, Elizabeth Anne. “The City of Paris: A Shape and a Shaping Force in 
Selected Nineteenth Century British Fiction.” University of Tennessee. 

Kardux, Johanna Cornelia. “The Improper Self: Identity and Writing in Melville’s 
Early Work.” Cornell University. 

Lindholdt, Paul Jeffrey. “A Critical Edition of John Josselyn’s 1674 Account of 
Two Voyages to New England.” Pennsylvania State Unviersity. 

Lucas, Patricia Diane. “Sea-Voyage Imagery in the Poetry of John Donne.” Case 
Western Reserve University. 

O’Neill, Kevin Charles. “The Voyage from Dante to Beckett.” University of 
California, Berkeley. 

Stephenson, Katherine Suzanne. “A Discourse-Analysis of the Lyrical Essays of 
Camus.” University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 

Van De Bilt, Eduardus Franciscus. “Proximity and Distance: American Travellers 
to the Middle East, 1819-1918.” Cornell University. 

Waggman, Beatrice Elisabeth. “Law and the Imaginery: Bougainville’s Voyage 
Around the World.” University of California, San Diego. 

Westrem, Scott Douglas. “A Critical Edition of Johannes Witte de Hese’s 
‘Itinerarius’, the Middle Dutch Text, An English Translation, and Commentary, 
Together with an Introduction to European Accounts of Travel to the East.” 
Northwestern University. 

Whitemoss-Street, Elizabeth Anna. “The Theme of the Literal and Figurative 
Journey in the Selected Works of Louis-Ferdinand Céline, Albert Camus, and 
Patrick Modiano.” Northwestern University. 


Bishop, Norma J. “Liminal Space in Travellers’ Tales: Historical and Fictional 
Passages.” Pennsylvania State University. 

Kang, Nae Heui. “The Renaissance Representation of the Other: Travel Literature, 
Spenser, Shakespeare, and Milton.” Marquette University. 

Le Coat, Nanette Christine. “Neither Fable nor Science: Volney’s Writings on 
Travel and History.” Johns Hopkins University. 

Lowe, Lisa. “French Literary Orientalism: Representations of ‘Others’ in the Texts 
of Montesquieu, Flaubert, and Kristeva.” University of California, Santa Cruz. 

Poss, Richard Lee. “The Myth of Venice in English Drama of the Seventeenth 
Century.” University of Georgia. 


140. 


1987 
141. 


142. 


143. 
144. 


145. 
146. 


147. 


148. 


1988 
149. 


150. 
ISt. 
E52. 
153. 


154. 


1989 
155. 


156. 


157. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 673 


Thibault, Bruno. “L’écriture du voyage: La question de l’exoticisme, du 
romantisme a l’époque contemporaine.” University of Maryland, College Park. 


Askins, Justin. “Melville’s Natural World: A Voyage to the Metaphysical.” City 
University of New York. 

Gardner, Adrienne Kuulei. “John Fowles: The Inward Journey.” University of 
Texas at Austin. 

George, Roger Allen. “The Transcendental Traveler.” University of Washington. 
Goluboff, Benjamin Louis. “The Confident Dream: American Travel Writing on 
England, 1820-1909.” University of Pennsylvania. 

Grewal, Inderpal. “The Political Aesthetic of Victorian Travel.” University of 
California, Berkeley. 

Lass, Terry Russell. “Discoveries of Mark Harris and Henry Wiggen.” University 
of Missouri, Columbia. 

Wegner, Gregory Robert. “The Sketch Book of Nathaniel Hawthorne: Theory and 
Practice of Literary Sketching in the Nineteenth Century.” University of 
Pennsylvania. 

Zauhar, Frances Murphy. “The Images of Walking in Hawthorne’s Fiction.” 
Louisiana State University. 


Butler, George Frank. “The Spiritual Odyssey and the Renaissance Epic.” 
University of Connecticut. 

Higgins, Iain MacLeod. “The World of a Book of the World: ‘Mandeville’s 
Travels’ in Middle English. Harvard University. 

MacDonald, Bonney. “A Revelatory and Resistant Force: Visions of Italy in Henry 
James’s Italian Travel Essays and Short Stories.” Yale University. 

McAllister, Marie E. “Woman on the Journey: Eighteenth-Century British 
Women’s Travel in Fact and Fiction.” Princeton University. 

Penzenstadler, Joan Elizabeth. “Mythical Mapping in Recent American Fiction.” 
Texas A&M University. 

Thomas, Suzanne Hazel. “Mythes de l’individu et du collectif: Une étude de 
Vendredi, ou les Limbes du Pacifique et du Roi des Aulnes de Michel Tournier.” 
Emory University. 


Gorjup, Branko. “A Study of Travel Literature, Biography and Criticism in 
English-Canadian Magazines, 1880-1920.” York University. 

Johnson, Regine Diane. “Fantastic Voyage: Refractions of the Real, Re-Visions of 
the Imagined in Hiraga Gennai’s ‘Furyu Shidoken Den’.” Harvard University. 
Mac Phail, Eric M. “The Voyage to Rome in French Renaissance Literature.” 


674 


158. 
159. 


160. 


1990 
161. 
162. 
163. 


164. 


165. 
166. 
167. 
168. 
169. 


170. 


1991 
171: 


172. 
173. 
174. 


LTS. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


Princeton University. 

Moon, Hi Kyung. “Fictitious Travelers in French and English Literature: A Study 
of Imaginary Voyages from Cyrano de Bergerac to Oliver Goldsmith (1657-1762).” 
Nahra, Nancy Ann. “The Excluded Voice: “French Travel Writers, 1686- 1771.” 
Princeton University. 

Winslow, Bruce Stephen. “The French Myth of Tahiti: Bougainville to Segalen.” 
Stanford University. 


Brown, Sharon Rogers. “American Travel Narratives as a Literary Genre from 
1542 to 1832: The Art of a Perpetual Journey.” State University of New York at 
Stony Brook. 

Bufalini, Robert. “To the Eastern Edges of Europe: The Travels of Francesco 
Algarotti, Ruggiero Boscovich, and Saverio Scrofani.” Brown University. 
Buzard, James Michael. “The Beaten Track: Literature and Tourism in Europe, 
1800-1918.” Columbia University. 

Felden-Archibald, Tamara. “Travel Literature by ‘Pre-March’ Women: The 
Literary Representation of Gender-Specific Experience.” University of Maryland, 
College Park. 

Fuller, Mary Claire. “The Age of Expansion: Recounting Renaissance Voyages.” 
Johns Hopkins University. 

Gaudreau, Marie-Josee. “La Venise de Proust: Le Voyage comme élaboration du 
livre.” McGill University. 

Hall, Kim Felicia. “Acknowledging Things of Darkness: Race, Gender and Power 
in Early Modern England.” University of Pennsylvania. 

Loselle, Andrea N. “Traveling in the Work of Louis-Ferdinand Céline.” Columbia 
University. 

Monicat, Benedicte Marie Christine. “Les Récits de voyage au féminin au dix- 
neuviéme siécle.” University of Maryland, College Park. 

Tokkonen, Tellervo Orvokki. “Europe in Mark Twain’s Travel Writing.” Florida 
Atlantic University. 


Aravamudan, Raynal Abbe De. “Tropical Figures: Colonial Representation in 
England and France, 1688-1789.” Cornell University. 

Bertrand, Didier Ghislain Andre. “Histoire d’un mythe et mythe d’une histoire: La 
Robinsonnade en France.” University of Iowa. 

Buonomo, Leonardo. “Backward Glances: Exploring Italy, Reinterpreting America 
(1831-1866).” University of California, San Diego. 

Carter, Adam Thomas Colenso. “Writing the Periphery: Authority and Ideology 
in Canadian Travel Writing.” University of Manitoba. 

Cote, Louise. “L’Alimentation et la rencontre des cultures: discours alimentaires 


176. 
177: 
178. 
179. 


180. 


181. 
182. 


183. 


1992 
184. 
185. 


186. 


187. 
188. 
189. 
190. 
191i 


192. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 675 


dans le Grand voyage du pays des Hurons de Gabriel Sagard (1623-1632).” 
Université de Laval. 

Dixon, John Spencer. “Representations of the East in English and French Travel 
Writing, 1798-1882.” University of Warwick (United Kingdom). 

Early, Julie English. “‘Monsters of the Deep’: The Woman Traveler and Later 
Victorian Women’s Travel Narratives.” University of Chicago. 

Frawley, Maria Barton Hinkle. “A Wider Range: Travel Writing by Women in 
Victorian England.” University of Delaware. 

Gitelman, Lisa Louise. “The World Recounted: Science and Narrative in Early 
Nineteenth Century Exploration Accounts.” Columbia University. 

Madureira, Luis Manuel. “Death Skulks on the Margins of Ancient Texts: Tracing 
the (Epistemic) Limits of Portugese Expansion in the 16th Century and the 
Present.” University of California, San Diego. 

Mazars de Mazarin, Nathalie. “Voyage au bout de la nuit de Louis-Ferdinand 
Céline: La Vérite c’est la mort .” San Jose State University. 

Spencer, Stacy Lee. “Women Writers and the Literary Journey, 1832-1844.” The 
University of Michigan. 

Youngs, Timothy David. “The Inscription of Self and Culture in British Narratives 
of Travel and Exploration.” Council for National Academic Awards (United 
Kingdom). 


Barnes, Fiona Ruthven. “Explorations in Geography, Gender, and Genre: 
Decolonizing Women’s Novels of Develoment. “ University of Wisconsin, 
Madison. 

Blanton, Sarah Cassandra. “Departures: Travel Writing in a Post-Bakhtinian 
World.” University of South Florida. 

Boer, Ingeborg Erica. “Rereading the Harem and the Despot: Changes in French 
Cultural Representations of the Orient in the Late Eighteenth and Early Nineteenth 
Centuries.” University of Rochester. 

Castanier, Chris. “‘Roadworks’: The Open Frontier in American Literature of 
Travel.” Wayne State University. 

Dietrich, Deborah Jean. “ Into the Woods: The Evolution of the Journey Narrative 
in Early American Literature, 1620-1744.” Claremont Graduate School. 
Dunlap, Samuel Roy. “Among the Cannibals and Amazons: Early German Travel 
Literature on the New World.” University of California, Berkeley. 

Ferdman, Sandra Helen. “The Dis-Orientation of Christopher Columbus: A 
Reading of the Discoverer’s Writing.” Yale University. 

Kreuger, Karl. “Johann Nikolaus Becker (1773-1809) and the Development of 
German Travel Literature in the Eighteenth Century.” University of Manitoba. 
Looney, Barbara A. “The Suppressed Agenda of Boswell’s ‘Tour’.” University of 
South Florida. 


676 


193; 
194. 
195: 
196. 


197: 


198. 
199. 
200. 


201. 


202. 


1993 
203. 
204. 
205. 
206. 


207. 


208. 


209. 


210. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


Malley, Shawn Cameron. “Journeying to Origins: Nostalgia, Heroism, and the Art 
of Travel.” University of New Brunswick. 

Nicholas, George E. “The Medieval Mandeville: A Study of Mandeville’s 
Travels.” Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. 

O’Connor, Maura. “A Political Romance: The English Middle Class and Italy, 
1815 to 1864.” University of California, Berkeley. 

Palakeel, Thomas J. “The Hakluyt Stage: Travel, Narcissism, and the Narrative.” 
University of North Dakota. 

Redmond, Michael John. “‘The Poisonous Ayre of Italie’: Identity and 
Representation Within Jacobean Depictions of Italy.” Queen’s University at 
Kingston. 

Rubio, Santiago. “Geography and the Representation of Space in the Argonautica 
of Appollonios of Rhodes.” University of California, San Diego. 

St. Laurent, Maureen Ellen. “American Women’s Travel Narratives: Gender and 
Genre.” Vanderbilt University. 

Stroik, Richard James. “Voyaging: The Performance of Being in the Poetry of 
Saint-John Pearse.” New York University. 

Stubbs, Neil Edward. “‘What Exile from Himself Can Flee?’ A Study of the 
Archetype of Exile in Ernest Hemingway’s The Sun Also Rises and Canto One of 
Lord Byron’s ‘Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage’.” University of Victoria. 

Stukes, Pierette Rouleau. “Aphra Behn and Oroonoko: Traveler and Text.” 
University of North Carolina at Charlotte. 


Beckman, Diane Susan. “The Wild Man: Images of Liminality. Prolegomena to a 
Study of Gilgamesh and Montaigne’s ‘Des Cannibales’.” University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill. 

Berninger, Carol Ray. “Across Celtic Borders: Johnson, Boswell, Piozzi, Scott.” 
Drew University. 

Cooper, Harriet Y. “D.H. Lawrence’s Italian Prose: Discovery of Home.” New 
York University. 

Dineen, Marcia Bentley. “Travel as Metaphor: Traveling Heroines in Novels by 
Jane Austen, George Eliot, and the Brontes.” University of Rhode Island. 
Drees, Ann Lawson. “The Intrepid Gertrude Bell: Victorian Lady, Explorer of the 
Middle Eastern Deserts, and Key Adviser to the New Iraqui Nation, 1868-1926.” 
Texas Women’s University. 

Escala, Annuncia. “The Seduction of ‘Terra Incognita’: The Myth of the Northwest 
Passage. University of Oregon. 

Ferantello, Donna. “‘The Symphony’ in Moby-Dick: The Chinese Eye in Melville’s 
Storm. The Influence of the China Trade, Oriental Thought, and Universalism on 
Melville’s Romanticism.” Drew University. 

Greenspan, Ezra. “Hunting for Bigger Game: Mark Twain and the Travel Book.” 


210 


212: 


213: 


214. 


215. 


216. 


27; 


218. 


219. 


220. 


221. 


222. 


223. 


224. 


225. 


226. 


227. 


228. 


229. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 677 


University of South Carolina. 

Hartog, Laura Catherine. “Derriére Zola: Le Corps féminin par le petit bout de la 
lorgnette.” University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 

Hovell, Laurie L. “Horizons Lost and Found: Travel, Writing, and Tibet in Age 
of Imperialism.” Syracuse University. 

Hutner, Heidi Jane. “Representing the ‘Other’ Woman: Colonial Discourse in 
Restoration Drama.” University of Washington. 

Kamal, Nadia. “Ville Sacrée/Ville Profane: Signes d’un itinéraire dans |’ceuvre 
romanesque de Tahar Ben Jelloun.” University of Southern California. 
Kohanski, Tamarah Malley. “Uncharted Territory: New Perspectives on 
Mandeville’s Travels.” University of Connecticut. 

Lang, Jonathan Charles. “The Ends of Travel: Sexuality and Transgression in the 
Narratives of E. M. Forster and André Gide.” Princeton University. 

Larson, Harold Mark. “Francisco Nieva’s ‘Teatro Furioso’: Analysis of Selected 
Plays.” Ohio State University. 

Melton, Jeffrey Alan. Hunting for Bigger Game: Mark Twain and the Travel Book. 
University of South Carolina. 

Nevins, Mark Davide. “The Literature of Curiosity: Geographical and Ex ploration 
Writings in Early Northern Europe.” Harvard University. 

Padgett, Martin. “Cultural Geographies: Travel Writing in the Southwest, 1869- 
1897.” University of California, San Diego. 

Pappagallo Lopez, Caterina. “Myth and Destiny in La luna e i falo and L’enfant 
noir: A Thematic Study.” Wayne State University. 

Peabody, Sue. “‘There Are No Slaves in France’: Law, Culture, and Society in 
Early Modern France, 1685-1798.” University of Iowa. 

Rhoades, Carol Ann Huebscher. “Routes of Power: Woman’s Journey in the 
Novels of George Eliot and Fredrika Bremer.” University of Texas at Austin. 
Ridion, Jean-Xavier Didier. “L’Exil des mots et la représentation de |’autre dans 
les euvres de Henri Michaux et de J. M. G. Le Clézio.” University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign. 

Russell, Alison Frances. “Crossing Boundaries: Postmodern Travel Literature.” 
University of Cincinnati. 

Sayre, Gordon Mitchell. “‘Les Sauvages américains’: Representations of Native 
Americans in Narratives of Colonial Virginia and New France.” State University 
of New York at Buffalo. 

Schlick, Yael Rachel. “Travel, Education, and the Pathways of Feminism in Post- 
Revolutionary France.” Duke University. 

Shankar, Subramanian. “From Hearts of Darkness to Temples of Doom: The 
Discursive Economy of the Travel Narrative in the Colonial Context.” University 
of Texas at Austin. 

Sherman, Sandra. “The Poetics of Trade: Finance and Fictionality in the Early 


678 


230. 


231. 


1994 
232. 


233. 
234. 
235. 


236. 


231; 


238. 


239. 


240. 


241. 


242. 


243. 


244. 


245. 


246. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


Eighteenth Century.” University of Pennsylvania. 

Strack, Thomas. “Privileged Experience and the Claim to Intersubjective Validity: 
On the Representation of Alien Cultures in Selected Travel Reports from the 17th 
and 18th Century.” University of Southern California. 

Van Tuyl, Jocelyn Christine. “Voyage and Writing in Gide’s Fictions.” Yale 
University. 


Bernard, Ernest Stephen. “‘Mine By Right of Love’: A Study of Isabella Bird’s 
Rocky Mountain Travel Narrative.” University of Southwestern Louisiana. 
Bowers, Terence Noel. “Rites of Passage: Inventions of Self and Community in 
Eighteenth-Century British Travel Literature.” University of Chicago. 

Casarino, Cesare. “The Voyages of Heterotopia: Meditations on Modernity, Crisis 
and the Sea.” Duke University. 

Currie, Noel Elizabeth. “Captain Cook at Nootka Sound and Some Questions of 
Colonial discourse.” University of British Columbia. 

Dobie, Madeleine Louise. “Foreign Bodies: The Figure of Oriental Women in 
Eighteenth- and Nineteenth-Century French and British Literature.” Yale Universi- 
ty. 

Dougal, Theresa A. “Spreading Their Wings: The Travel Narrative As an 
Alternative Genre for late Eighteenth-Century Women Writers.” University of 
Chicago. 

Evans, David Rees. “The Literature of European Travel and the Question of 
Authority, 1640-1714.” University of Virginia. 

Finamore, Daniel R. “Sailors and Slaves on the Wood-Cutting Frontier: 
Archeology of the British Bay Settlement, Belize.” Boston University. 
Gleckman, Jason. “Sixteenth-Century Parody.” University of Wisconsin, Madison. 
Gray, Jeffrey Hamblin. “Travel and the Trope of Vulnerability in the Poetry of 
Elizabeth Bishop, Robert Lowell, Frank Bidart, and John Ashbery.” University of 
California, Riverside. 

Holt, George Richard. “The Touristic Text and Sociopolitical Struggle: An 
Application of the Principles of Mikhail Bakhtin to the Study of Tour Guide-books 
of Japan, 1955 to 1991.” University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 

Hout, Syrine Chafic. “Viewing Europe from the Outside: Cultural Encounters and 
European Critiques in the Eighteenth-Century Pseudo-Oriental Travelogue and the 
Nineteenth-Century Voyage en Orient.“ Columbia University. 

Kajlik, Vladimir. “‘Martine Bakalarz’s Journey from Bohemia to Jerusalem’ 
(‘Cesta Z Czech Do Geruzalema Knieze Martina Bakalarze’ (1573)): A Philological 
Analysis.” University of Michigan. 

Knauff, Barbara Elisabeth. “Multilingualism in French Late Seventeenth- Century 
Imaginary Voyages.” Yale University. 

McKey, Ellen Burditt. “Rewriting Arcadia: An Analysis of German Philhellenic 


247. 


248. 


249. 


250. 
251; 
252: 


253. 


254. 


255. 


256. 


ZT: 


1995 
258: 


259. 


260. 
261. 


262. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 679 


Literature.” Rutgers University. 

McKirdy, Mark Lewis. “The Secret Journal of Captain Cook: Being the True 
Account of the Endeavor and Her Crew in the Antipodes 1770.” University of 
Wollongong (Australia). 

Morgan-Russell, Simon Nicholas. “‘O London!’: Urban Bodies in the Age of 
Jonson.” Lehigh University. 

Nichols, Pamela Catherine. “Force and Charm in the Desert: Manly Adventure and 
Gentlemanly Behavior in the Middle Eastern Travel Writings of Richard and Isabel 
Burton and Wilfrid Scawen and Anne Blunt. New York University. 
Nowogorska, Teresa. “Pierre Loti et le discours exotique.” University of 
Maryland, College Park. 

Owen, William James. “The Evolution of Sterne’s A Sentimental Journey.” 
University of Virginia. 

Prakash, Kamini. “The Discourse of the Other in German Travel Writing, 1800- 
1860. “ Michigan State University. 

Szurmuk, Monica. “‘Viajeras’: Women’s Travel Writing and the Construction of 
Self and National Identity in Argentina, 1850-1930.” University of California, San 
Diego. 

Sullivan-Trainor, Deborah Lynn. “Flora Tristan’s Peregrinations and Promenades: 
Writing and the Politics of Change.” University of California, Irvine. 

Van Peteghem, Sylvia Erya. “Alida Wynanda Sanders Van Loo (1860-1939). 
Biography of a Forgotten Writer, Journalist and Translator. With Annotated Edition 
of Her Travel Books and with Her War Diary in Annex.” Rijksuniversiteit Te Gent 
(Belgium). 

Yang, Ho-Chin. “China’s Routes to Tibet During the Early Qing Dynasty: A Study 
of Travel Accounts.” University of Washington. 

Zebrak, Michael J. “Metanoia and Apostasy: The Journey of the Self in the 
Confessions of Augustine and the ‘Canzoniere’ of Petrarch.” Rutgers, The State 
University of New Jersey. 


Bess, Jennifer. “Remodeling Eden in Early Modern Travel Narratives, Science and 
Poetry.” Catholic University of America. 

Brown, Sarah Ann. “American Tourists’ Narratives of the Caribbean, 1839-1939: 
A Study of the Experience of Tourism and of Cultural Encounter.” George 
Washington University. 

‘Fritzsche, Sybille Charlotte.” Narrating China: Western Travelers in the Middle 
Kingdom After the Opium War.” University of Chicago. 

Gibley, Kevin Charles. “Departures: Journeys from the Margin(al) in the Fiction 
of Walker Percy, Eudora Welty, and Toni Morrison.” University of Notre Dame. 
Gifra-Adroher, Pere. “From Enlightenment to Romanticism: Early American 
Travel Writers on Spain.” University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 


680 


263. 


264. 


265. 


266. 


267. 


268. 


269. 


RISA K. NYSTROM 


Hampton, Anne-Marie C. “Gide, Maran, Céline et 1’Afrique: Exotisme, 
colonialisme et humanisme.” University of California, Los Angeles. 

Krise, Thomas Warren. “Representations of the British West Indies from the 
Restoration to the American Revolution: Prolegomena to the Field and a Critical 
Anthology of Early Jamaica.” University of Chicago. 

Melissinos, Joyce Mitchell. “The Stuff of Fable: Accounts of Embassies from 
England and Russia to the Middle East and the Far East in the Eighteenth Century: 
An Overlooked Dimension of Voyage and Travel Literature.” University of 
Rochester. 

Senior, Diane Hichwa. “Pilgrimage of Love and Writing: A Study of Dante’s Vita 
Nuova. Yale University. 

Shea, Anne Frances. “Furious and Gentle Bodies: Racializing the Female Domestic 
Subject, 1688-1800.” University of California, San Diego. 

Tinguely, Frédéric-Daniel. “Ecritures du Lévant: La Relation intertextuelle chez 
les voyageurs francgais dans l’empire de Soliman (1545-1555).” Johns Hopkins 
University. 

Waters, John Paul. “Romanticism, Travel, and the Rhetorics of an Appropriate 
Self in Keats and Wordsworth.” Duke University. 


CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER OF VOYAGES 


Ancient Times: 199 
Middle Ages: 34, 62, 69, 97, 106, 114, 133, 150, 194, 215, 219, 268. 


Renaissance: 9, 11, 24, 48, 52, 66, 76, 80, 99, 127, 128, 132, 136, 139, 149, 157, 


158, 161, 165, 167, 171, 175, 180, 188, 189, 190, 196, 202, 203, 
208, 213, 222, 226, 230, 238, 239, 240, 244, 260, 266, 270. 


18th Century: 18, 27, 29, 32, 37, 39, 48, 58, 68, 71, 81, 110, 117, 132, 137, 138, 


152, 154, 156, 159, 160, 161, 162, 171, 172, 174, 186, 188, 191, 
192, 199, 204, 208, 212, 226, 229, 230,,235,,236, 237,.239, 243, 
245, 247, 251, 256, 264, 267, 269. 


19th Century: 10, 14, 17, 20, 22, 23, 26, 28, 31, 33, 35, 37, 45, 50, 55, 61, 65, 


70, 72, 73, 74, 85, 87, 91, 92, 94, 95, 98, 101, 105, 108, 109, 110, 
112, ‘116; 118120, 122, 125, 131, 138, 140;:1414'143, 144, 145; 
147, 148, 151, 155, 160, 161, 164, 169, 170, 173, 174, 176, 177, 
178, 179, 182, 183, 186, 187, 195, 199, 206, 207, 209, 211, 212, 
218; 220, 223/227, '232,'234, 236, 243, 246, 249, 253; 261, 262, 
264, 271. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 681 


20th Century: 2, 3, 25, 43, 49, 56, 57, 60, 63, 64, 67, 77, 78, 82, 84, 85, 89, 95, 
100, 102, 104, 105, 107, 110, 111, 113,, 116, 122) 124)130, 133, 
138, 142, 146, 153, 155, 160, 166, 168, 174,, 181, 184, 185, 187, 
199) '205;'212, 216,217, 225; 231, 241,242, 253,255, 263270. 





GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF VOYAGES 


VOYAGE’S COUNTRY OF ORIGIN 


Asia China: 53, 90, 256. 
Japan: 34, 46, 156, 242. 


Europe: 219, 262. 
England: 2, 7, 8, 9, 12, 18, 27, 28, 29, 49, 56, 58, 64, 71, 76, 80, 81, 85, 89, 
101, 110, 118, 119, 125, 127, 139s 145; 150, 152, 158 ,2165,,1675 171, 
176, 177, 178, 179, 182, 183, 188, 192, 195, 196, 202, 204, 205, 207, 
211, 212, 215, 216, 233, 235, 239, 247, 249, 260; 2665 267, 221. 
France: 6;.11, 29, 32, 33, 55, 72, 91, 92, 99, 108, 1219, 121, 1825137, 1387 140, 
157, 159, 169, 171, 175, 176, 186, 203, 214, 216, 226, 227, 250, 254, 265, 
270. 
Germany: 49, 57, 59, 95, 100, 189, 191, 244, 246, 252. 
Holland?>" 133). 255. 


Italy: 162. 
Portugal: 180. 
Russia: 267. 
Spain: 25, 43, 80, 190, 208, 217. 


Middle East: Iran/Persia: 69. 


North America: 262 
Canada: (yee lee 


USA: 4517,20, 2022523526, 45,'48350F 615565; 733,74; 75, 87,, 103, 109; 
120;. 1313, 144, 1515, 153). 170, 1'73;, 279; 1825, 187; 199; 209. 21S, 232, 
262, 264. 


VOYAGE’S COUNTRY OF DESTINATION 


Africa: OTL 785 438, 1.78, 183, 202, 216,265. 
Antarctica: 235, 247. 
Asia: 6, 91, 119, 133, 138, 164, 176. 

China: 138, 209, 262, 267. 

India: 89, 90, 133, 216. 


682 RISA K. NYSTROM 


Japan: 138. 
Thailand: 11. 
Tibet: 212, 256.. 
Australia: 225. 
Europe: 65, 74, 164, 170, 225, 138. 
England: 23, 37, 91, 164. 
France: 23, 58, 125, 217, 222, 251. 
Germany: 4, 91. 
Greece: 162, 246. 
Italy: 76, 91, 92, 99, 101, 109, 120, 139, 151, 157, 173, 195, 205, 216, 251. 
Russia: 162. 
Scotland: 7, 81, 192, 204, 271. 
Spain: 29, 72, 108, 264. 
Middle East: 2, 28, 55, 76, 85, 95, 119, 131, 133, 137, 178, 214, 249, 270 . 
Egypt: 12,20, 76, 137, 159; 227. 
Iran/Persia: 129, 159, 207. 
Israel: 244. 
Turkey: 55, 76, 162, 186, 267. 
North America: 
Canada: 67, 174, 226. 
USA: 67, 73, 83, 100, 103, 121, 127, 159, 164, 178, 188, 208,220, 226, 260. 
The Caribbean: 266, 262. 
Belize: 239. 
South America: 165, 190. 
Argentina: 253. 
Brazil: 124. 
Peru: 254. 
Surinam: 202. 
Venezuela: 189. 


CRITICAL CATEGORIES 


TRAVEL LITERATURE AND COLONIALISM 


Exoticism: 31, 88, 131, 140, 250. 
General: 68, 112, 127, 136, 138, 140, 171, 181, 183, 184, 188, 189, 208, 212, 
213, 216, 222, 226, 228, 235, 239, 245, 252, 265, 266, 269. 
New World: 29, 32, 75, 80, 83, 86, 99, 123, 127, 167, 189, 190, 203, 208, 226, 
246, 260. 
Orientalism: 6, 72, 119, 131, 138, 176, 186, 209, 236, 243, 262. 


A Bibliography of North-American Dissertations on Travel 683 


TRAVEL LITERATURE AND FOLKLORE/MYTHOLOGY 


In General: 52.77, 97. 104,105. 106, 107, a4 115,123. 127,132,135. 153, 
154572; 187, 1895203. 

Man vs. Nature: 141, 188, 209, 260. 

Quest? %/2+'82, 85,7107; 9122, 123,. 129), 263. 


LITERARY VOYAGES 


Allegorical: 7A; 104; 105; 106, 115; FIG, 124, 128; 129, 136, 137, 150, 182, 
268. 

Fictional: 1, 16, 22, 24, 26, 30, 39, 60, 63, 66, 68, 74, 77, 79, 81, 94, 97, 98, 
105, 107, 108, 114, 115, 126, 134, 141, 147, 150, 153, 154, 156, 
158, 166, 168, 171, 173, 179, 184, 194, 198, 201, 213, 216, 223, 
22552271, 2280229 5,234, 245, 2515: 269 

Metaphorical: 142, 148, 194, 200, 206, 221, 223, 260. 

Psychological: 30, 68, 84, 94, 107, 122, 124, 126, 134, 142, 146, 149, 257, 263. 


TRAVEL LITERATURE AND GENRES 


Autobiography: 91, 110, 143, 152, 182. 

Historiography: 100, 137, 180, 228, 267. 

Landscape: 74, 90, 103, 141, 151, 204. 

Narrative: 27, 57, 67, 79, 80, 81, 93, 124, 133, 137, 143, 161, 168, 179, 180, 193, 
196, 212, 227,,250, 267. 

Poetry: 24, 97, 104, 114, 200, 241. 

Romance: 33, 72, 82, 97, 116, 121, 138, 140, 141, 142. 

Sci-Fi: 60, 77, 105. 

Sketch: ,93...103,..151, 1705216: 


TRAVEL LITERATURE AND THEORY 


General?’ 10, 75, 83; '85,'86,-88, 91,93; 101, 102108) 113.114. 117 127.125, 
126, 130; 132,'137, 138, 140, 153, 156, 163) 1655 169,180,182... 183, 
185; 1915 198;-200)°211 214,217, 2199220) 223, 225. 227, 250.255, 
238, 241, 242,°243; 253, 257; 271- 

Alterity: 85, 87, 131, 136, 167, 175, 183, 185, 190, 208, 213, 224, 230, 236, 263, 
265, 269. 

Philosophy: 81, 88, 119, 137. 

Post-modernism: 122, 184, 185, 225, 241. 


TRAVEL LITERATURE AND SOCIAL ISSUES 
Cities: 124. 125% 173214: 


684 RISA K. NYSTROM 


Politics: 2, 37, 43, 55, 62,/100, 131, 1373145, 152, 160,170, 194,1195,; 234, 
238, 242, 254, 260, 264, 267. 
Religion: 
Christianity: 79, 159, 194, 209, 157. 
Missionaries: 131, 159, 160, 178, 196, 252. 
Pilgrimages: 3, 90, 119, 142, 148, 187, 196, 268, 270. 
Spirituality: 107, 143, 149, 154, 263, 264, 268. 
Women: 100, 103, 109, 121, 138, 152, 164, 169, 177, 182, 184, 186, 199, 202, 
206, 207, 211, 213, 223, 227, 232, 233, 236, 255, 263,:269: 


WRITERS CITED 


Bougainville: 117, 132, 159, 160. 
Céline: 134, 168, 181, 265. 
Chateaubriand: 91, 92, 140. 
Columbus: 50, 75, 143, 190, 208. 
Cooper: 91, 98, 144, 173, 187. 
Defoe: +9; 27,. 71,. 154;. 171,229, 233; 
Diderot: 3, 117, 129, 160. 

Gautier: 31, 35, 55, 91, 108. 
Hawthorne: 17, 144, 147, 148, 173. 
Howell: 10, 17, 37. 75, 173: 
Irving, W.:° 17, 75, 103, 144, 161. 
James, H.: 17, 74, 75, 144, 151. 
Johnson, S.: 7, 15, 81, 192, 204. 
Lawrence, D. H.: 3, 56, 82, 110. 
Mandeville: 150, 194, 215. 
Melville: 54, 74, 75, 98, 126, 131, 141, 209, 234. 
Montaigne: 88, 99, 152, 203. 
Montesquieu: 88, 138, 186. 

Nerval: 55, 91, 93, 119, 236. 
Smollett: 39, 71, 81, 110, 233. 
Sterne: 39, 54, 71, 110. 

Thoreau: 50, 75, 143, 187, 193,. 
Trollope, F:. 91, 121, 182. 

Twain: 22, 70, 87; 131, 170; 218. 


Vanderbilt University 





Recensioni 
Book Reviews 
Comptes rendus 
Resenas 


Eric J. Leed. The Mind of the Traveler: From Gilgamesh to Global Tourism. 
New York: Basic Books, 1991. Pp. 328 [Italian Transl.: La mente del viaggiatore: 
Dall’“Odissea” al turismo globale. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1992. Pp. 386]. 


An intellectual and spiritual history of the Western world from the perspective of the 
traveling subject, The Mind of the Traveler succeeds marvelously in refocusing attention 
on the centrality of travel as fundamental to the formation of both individual as well as 
community identities in history. The book’s breadth of perspective and ambition are key 
factors in its success: they act to counter the tendency of much critical work in the field 
primarily concerned with the reconnaissance of “local knowledge,” with the documentation 
of a “marginal” social phenomenon or with the traditions of a “minor” literary genre. The 
work will refresh the perspective of a wide variety of readers: from the specialist whose 
vision of the whole field has perhaps been limited by specialistic preoccupations with 
historical and philological detail, to the educated lay person or undergraduate who has 
perhaps never given the theme of travel the attention it deserves. In fact, Leed makes in 
his introduction an eloquent argument for travel as “a central rather than peripheral force 
in historical transformations” (18). The author points to the possibility of a history based 
upon the premises that societies are constantly in the processes of formation and dissolution, 
and that it may well be possible to view history from the perspective of mobility and motion, 
rather than from the traditional and psychologically ingrained premises of territorialization 
and placedness (19). The history of travel offers meanwhile the possibility of a unified view 
of human and natural history and a unified perspective from which to “view the transforma- 
tions of culture” (21). If history has traditionally contributed to the territorialization of space, 
and particularly to its organization into national spaces, the new history of travel may have 
an important role to play in contemporary processes tending toward the deterritorialization 
and reterritorialization of space and history. 

The book is especially recommended for use in any undergraduate or graduate course 
concerned with any aspect of the history of travel and travel literature from either national 
or comparatistic perspectives. The work is divided into three parts and an epilogue. Part 
I, dedicated to “The Structure of the Journey: Departure, Passage, Arrival” (1-132) is the 
most exciting and innovative. The heroic versus the non-heroic traveler are defined by the 
motivations and modalities of departure, illustrated with examples from Gilgamesh to Adam 





Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): L’odeporica/Hodoeporics, edited by Luigi Monga. 


686 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


and Eve, from the heroic exile Ywain, to the 19th-century Englishman Alexander Kinglake 
who escaped from civility to the exotic East. As is Leed’s consistent method, these texts 
are the point of departure for the exploration of fundamental typological patterns of identity 
forged through the travel experience. 

From one perspective, Leed sketches a chronological development: we move from the 
heroic traveler who submits to the journey out of necessity, that is, whose travel expresses 
“an explication of human fate and necessity” (7) to that which Leed styles the modern 
traveler for whom mobility becomes “an expression of freedom and anescape from necessity 
and purpose” (7). But it soon becomes clear that the chronological framework, while a 
necessary and useful heuristic device, can obscure the extent to which models of heroic 
“necessity” as well as those of modern “freedom” are often conflated in the histories of 
individual travelers and communities. 

Perhaps the most original and intriguing part of this very intriguing and original book 
is the section dedicated to “passage.” Here the difficulties involved in putting oneself in 
the “mind of the traveler” are perhaps greatest since the written records of travel are largely 
silent on the “seductions of passage,” that is, on that experience of the passenger which 
bring about an “objectification of the world” and a“subjectification of the self” (65). A 
section on arrivals, “The Stranger at the Gates” presents a rich illustrated typology of the 
modes of arrival. Throughout the book, the rich variety of examples culled from the classics 
of travel literature (both well-known and less well-known, from Goethe to Ludovico di 
Varthema) is both exhilarating and part of the point of the book. The examples are infinitely 
multipliable, just as the roads of both geographical and textual travel are infinite: “therefore 
wander” (293). 

Leed’s reflections on arrival lead to an intriguing section on “Space and Gender: 
Women’s Mediations” (111-129). Based upon the anthropological Levi-Straussian insight 
that “in all traditional societies, relations among men are mediated through women and 
through the exchange of women” (112), Leed brings together a wealth of examples and 
commentary from the annals of travel. Leed’s notion that in traditional society, sacred 
prostitution allowed for the expression of female agency “as an alternative to kinship and 
marriage” never fails to stimulate considerable resistance in my seminars. Nevertheless, 
the idea that sexual hospitality represents a medium of intercultural relations rather than 
a fixed relationship in itself, and that within “the incorporative procedures of arrival, there 
is no established or predictable conclusion to be drawn from these sexual practices” is 
powerful and useful. That “we should grant as much awareness of contingency and 
possibility to these past actors negotiating their arrivals as we grant to strangers meeting 
in a modern singles bar” (126) perhaps overstates the case. One is left to consider what level 
of agency and awareness to attribute to strangers meeting in a modern singles bar. In any 
case, the appraisal of degrees of necessity and freedom remains an essential hermeneutical 
problem for the history of travel and the interpretation of individual itineraries in any case. 


Given the books breadth and ambition, readers will inevitably find certain sections more 
and others less satisfying and persuasive. Part II on “Philosophical Travel” (132-216) offers 
briskly informative sections on ancient and medieval traditions of travel, to Egypt, India, 
the Holy Land, as well as a consideration of the figure of the wandering scholar. The section 
on “The Encounter with the New World” is perhaps too brief and narrow for the variety 
of phenomena that might have been observed, but serves well as preparation for the final 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 687 


section on “The Alienated Eye: Scientific Travel” which traces travel from the Renaissance 
to Darwin. Part III “Travel and Identity” (216- 284) presents a varied typology of travelers’ 
identities, as well as the societies from which they emerged and which emerged from their 
travel, including the Knight Errant, nomadic societies, military and scientific expeditions, 
the courtier traveler (James Boswell), the curious traveler (Pietro Della Valle), and the 
upwardly mobile traveler. 

The book’s epilogue (285-316) returns us to the point of departure, that is, to the mind 
of the modern traveler. What impact have global tourism and modern mobility had on the 
contemporary meaning of travel, beyond the fact that they have brought the history of travel 
into greater focus? The nostalgia, ranging to bitterness that characterizes so much contempo- 
rary journeying and travel writing does seem to express a response to one’s sense that real 
travel is no longer possible. Travel has become not only common, “it is the source of our 
commonality, our community —and that is the problem” (287). This sense of nostalgia and 
loss, an absence of content and complexity have for Leed become a new stimulus to travel, 
not outward as in the period of classical travel, but backward and inward, “to origins and 
to what has been left behind. Modern migrations outward seem to create a new need for 
Florence, Prague, Paris, Rome, and Jerusalem, for that old world where may be found much 
that has been lost and forgotten on the journeys that generated the new” (293). Meanwhile, 
new centers and new itineraries are ceaselessly being created on every plane of reality, from 
the geographical to the virtual. Thus the books final exhortation to a kind of post-heroic 
heroic travel: “Those do not die who connect their endings to their beginnings. Therefore 
wander” (293) is to be understood not only as an exhortation to travel back to what has been 
left behind but also toward new frontiers of travel that have become ever more imperative, 
even as they must also, finally, be freely chosen. 


Theodore J. Cachey, Jr., University of Notre Dame 


Adrien Pasquali, Le Tour des Horizons. Critique et récits de voyage. Paris: 
Klincksieck: 1994. Pp. 181. 


Voici un volume intéressant et au but trés précis, celui de faire le point sur 1’état actuel de 
la recherche en matiére de récit de voyage”. L’analyse de Pasquali se fonde d’une part, 
sur des textes narratifs, et d’autre part, sur des ouvrages de critique ou de théorie du récit 
de voyage. 

Dans |’introduction, l’auteur se penche sur “l’effervescence éditoriale” qui, depuis 
une vingtaine d’années, s’intéresse au voyage: aprés avoir décrit et évalué les diverses 
collections consacrées au voyage, Pasquali propose des éléments de réponse a la question 
du pourquoi de cet engouement . 

L’ouvrage est divisé en douze chapitres. Chacun examine une des nombreuses 
approches critiques du récit de voyage. Certains reprennent des themes bien connus et 
abondamment étudiés: dans les deux premiers chapitres, intitulés “Voyage et vision du 
monde” et “Vitesse et vision du monde” (titre qui reprend celui de 1’étude que Claude 
Pichois a consacrée 4 ce théme), Pasquali étudie le rapport existant entre espace et identité 
selon une perspective historique allant des pélerinages du Moyen Age jusqu’au tourisme 
de masse de cette fin du vingtiéme siécle. La discussion de l’effet de la vitesse sur la vision 
du monde est illustrée de nombreuses citations tirées des euvres de Gide, Valéry, Morand, 


688 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


Michaux et Butor. Pasquali cite également J. D. Urbain qui synthétise en une heureuse 
formule l’interdépendance de l’espace et de la vitesse dans le voyage: “créatrice d’espace, 
chaque vitesse est un lieu de découvertes” (23). A la conception traditionnelle du voyage 
comme quéte, au cours de laquelle le voyageur acquiert expérience et connaissances, 
Pasquali oppose une autre problématique, celle qui concoit le voyage non comme un 
enrichissement de 1’étre, mais, pour reprendre le terme de Henri Michaux, comme un 
appauvrissement ; dans le méme ordre d’idées, Pasquali cite Nicolas Bouvier, écrivain- 
bourlingueur invétéré, pour qui “un voyage se passe de motifs; [...] on croit qu’on va faire 
un voyage, mais bient6t c’est le voyage qui vous fait, ou vous défait” (26). 

Dans les chapitres III et IV, Pasquali s’attache 4 montrer comment les polémiques 
portant sur la relative valeur des différentes maniéres de voyager et de voir le monde sont 
de “fausses” querelles. Ainsi, l’opposition souvent établie entre la vision “naive” du 
voyageur qui écrit, et celle, “médiate” de l’écrivain qui voyage, n’est, selon]’auteur, qu’une 
question de degrés dans la littéralité du récit. Trés 4 propos, il cite Frangoise Weil: “Dans 
la mesure ow il y a mise en forme du voyage, il y a ‘littéralisation’ du récit, il y a sélection, 
transformation, et une sorte de mensonge explicite” (38). 

Aprés la discussion de rigueur consacrée 4 “la fin des voyages” annoncée par Lévi- 
Strauss, Pasquali propose un chapitre trés intéressant sur “les modalités actuelles du 
voyage”, sorte d’inventaire des formes nouvelles du voyage, comme autant de remédes a 
ce que Segalen appelle “la dégradation du taux d’exotisme” ( 73): les nouveaux voyageurs 
peuvent procéder a “l’inversion du regard ethnographique” et prendre, comme les surré- 
alistes, leur propre société comme objet d’observation dans ce qu’elle a d’inhabituel, 
d’étrange, se faire, selon J. D. Urbain, “voyageurs de l’interstice” (67). Le voyage dans 
le temps, le voyage “hypnotique” de Réda (77), offrent d’autres solutions au rétrécissement 
de l’espace dans le monde moderne; enfin, le voyageur peut trouver d’autres avenues a4 
découvrir dans le travail d’écriture du voyage, tel que 1’a pratiqué Michel Butor dans Mobile. 

Pasquali aborde ensuite la question du “genre” du récit de voyage, et consacre deux 
chapitres a un sujet qui a fait couler l’encre de nombreux commentateurs. Etant donné la 
forme hétérogéne des récits de voyage, |’auteur considére que la notion de genre n’est pas 
d’une grande utilité pour les décrire; le genre n’est pertinent que relativement aux “segments 
textuels” du récit, plutot qu’a sa totalité (113); il n’est valable qu’en tant que “montage de 
genres” (127). 

En conclusion, Pasquali défend les divers projets visant a4 établir une typologie 
narrative des récits de voyage, contre ceux qui n’y voient qu’une perspective réductrice, 
prescriptive, englobante, etc. L’auteur envisage une telle typologie — qui reste a établir, 
comme une ouverture sur le texte, comme un instrument de lecture qui permettrait au 
critique d’étre, comme le dit Julien Gracq, un “expert en objets aimés” (142). 

On regrettera, sans trop s’en étonner peut-étre, que les voyageuses soient si peu 
présentes dans ce tour d’horizon. Notons en particulier l’absence de Simone de Beauvoir 
dans la section consacrée au rapport entre récit de voyage et autobiographie; on est surpris 
de ne pas l’y voir mentionnée, étant donné la place qu’occupent les voyages dans sa vie 
et dans ses mémoires. Sont également absentes de |’analyse et de la bibliographie, des cri- 
tiques anglo-saxonnes telles que Mary-Louise Pratt ou encore Sara Mills pour ne citer 
qu’elles, qui ont donné un nouveau souffle a l’étude des récits de voyage: l’une, en 
examinant le récit de voyage dans le contexte de la politique européenne, impérialiste et 
expansionniste, du dix-neuviéme siécle; l’autre, en adoptant une perspective féminine et 





Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 689 


féministe dans son étude de récits de voyages écrits par des femmes, de langue anglaise. 
Au moment ou, comme le dit l’auteur dans son introduction, on constate une “effervescence 
éditoriale“ en matiére de récits de voyage, il est dommage que les femmes ne figurent pas 
dans dans cette étude, ni a titre de voyageuses, ni a titre de critiques. 

Malgré cette lacune, quiconque s’intéresse aux récits de voyage trouvera dans Le Tour 
des Horizons un outil de travail d’une utilité certaine, grace a l’abondance des citations, 
grace a une bibliographie d’environ 250 titres, grace également aux analyses stimulantes 
de l’auteur ainsi qu’aux pistes de recherche qu’il esquisse. 


Florence Gabaude, Vanderbilt University 


Robert Eisner. Travelers to an Antique Land: The History and Literature of 
Travel to Greece. Ann Arbor: The University of Michigan Press, 1991. Pp. 266. 


Olga Augustino. French Odysseys: Greece in French Travel Literature from the 
Renaissance to the Romantic Era. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University 
Press, 1994. Pp. 345 + xiii. 


R. A. McNeal (ed.). Nicholas Biddle in Greece: The Journals and Letters of 
1806, University Park, PA: Pennsylvania University Press, 1993. Pp. 235. 


G. Camassa and S. Fasce (eds.). Idea e realta del viaggio: Il viaggio nel mondo 
antico. Genova: Edizioni Culturali Internazionali, 1991. Pp. 430. 


In recent years there has been a rising interest both in travel to Greece and in writing about 
travel and travelers to that difficult but enticing country. Part of this is a direct result of 
a similarly recent interest among classics scholars to investigate their own past. The history 
of classical scholarship has sparked interest in the earliest travelers to Greece, and what 
they found and did in their day. The increase of tourism has also contributed to the recent 
demand for travel books about Greece. A third strand is a growing interest in historical 
biography. Volumes such as Nicholas Biddle’s journals and letters tell us perhaps as much 
about the author as the subject. Whatever the reason, travel books on Greece continue to 
flourish, and I offer here a brief review of a few recently published books on Greek travel 
and travel writing. 

Let us begin with a book which provides a general overview of travel to Greece: Eisner’s 
book is a chronological look at travelers to Greece from ancient to modern times, and the 
books they wrote about their travels. The material is divided into a prologue and ten chapters 
chock full of anecdotes and excerpts from a wide variety of writers. Eisner has clearly done 
a thorough job of sifting through the vast literature of travel to this most enticing of ancient 
lands. The twenty-two page bibliography is a veritable gold mine. 

The book opens with a discussion of the reasons people travel, then introduces some 
travelers to Greece who have written about their experiences. The chapter concludes with 
a brief treatment of travelers in ancient Greece. This discussion spans the period from c. 
2000 B.c., when Eisner would have the first Greek speakers moving into the peninsula, to 
the early Christian period when travelers to the Aegean basin seem to have shifted their 
destination from Greece to holy sites of the Near East. 

Chapter two contains an interesting discussion of map-making, and takes the story of 


690 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


travel writing into the middle ages. Eisner devotes some time to the pilgrims who passed 
through Mediterranean lands on their way to the Holy Land, and the records they left. Eisner 
concludes that Pietro Casola’s record of his trip to Jerusalem in 1494 is the only, “surviving 
piece of pilgrim literature that deserves to be printed and read for its own sake.” (43). Eisner 
discusses not only those travelers whom we would expect to hear of—Cyriacus of Ancona, 
Spon and Wheler, etc.—but also brings to our attention lesser known writers such as Olfert 
Dapper, a Flemish geographer, from whom he excerpts the following gem: “The greater 
part of the Candiotes ... are great eaters and great drunkards, devoted to wine and debauchery, 
to greed and lust, and above all to filthy pleasures of the flesh. In short they lead lazy, idle 
lives ...” (59). This reads more like a description of late twentieth century travelers to Crete 
than the islanders themselves. Eisner goes on to discuss many other such travelers, and in 
the rest of the chapter he carries the story of travel writing up through the 17th century. 

The third chapter deals with important visitors of the enlightenment in the 18th century. 
Once again, in addition to the expected discussion of the Grand Tour travelers, Eisner includes 
an extended passage ona figure who may be less well known, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu. 
In 1716 she accompanied her husband to Constantinople where he had been appointed 
ambassador to the Sublime Porte, and she wrote many letters which were published 
posthumously. Eisner provides a long passage about her experience ina Turkish bath, which 
turned out to form the inspiration for the 1865 painting by Ingres, "Le Bain Turc’. Among 
her correspondants was Alexander Pope, and Eisner states that her letters to him demonstrate 
that she “anticipated the realistic or archaeological attitude both in the study of ancient literature 
and in the development of the novel ...” (65). Other travelers of note from this century include 
the Earl of Sandwich, Lord Charlemont, and James Stuart and Nicholas Revett, whose drawings 
have been so helpful in the study of the buildings of Athens. 

The remaining seven chapters are divided between the nineteenth century, chapters 
four, five, and six, and the twentieth century, chapters seven through ten. In fact the chapters 
on the twentieth century comprise almost one-hundred pages, a little over a third of the book. 
The nineteenth century provides a wealth of travel literature, much of it written by phil-Hellenes 
who fought in the Greek War of Independence (1821-1831). Furthermore, the mid-nineteenth 
century was the period in which archaeological exploration began in earnest, and that 
investigation provided a great impetus for travel to Greece. The emphasis on the twentieth 
century does not surprise, given the remarkable increase in travel and travel writing, particularly 
in the post-World War II period which receives two chapters. One expects and finds long 
discussions of such writers as Lawrence Durrel and Patrick Leigh Fermor, but there are 
also sections on less well-known writers such as Sheelagh Kanelli and Charmian Clift. These 
two women, one of whom (Kanelli) married a Greek, strike a different note from that sounded 
by male writers in their reflections on the people and landscape of Greece. 

Eisner closes the book with some reflections on the future of travel to Greece and what 
shape travel writing may take. In the final chapter called "Quo Vadis Now, Traveler?,’ he 
takes us ona nightmare tour of the worst of what Greece has become. To say that this chapter 
is depressing is like saying the Laestrygonians were naughty. A variety of forces has merged 
to create multiple problems for this magnificent peninsula: a massive influx of tourists has 
overtaxed the people, the sewage systems, the water supply, etc. to the point that one wonders 
how this tiny country will ever recover from the annual flood of visitors; increasing 
industrialization has led to a drain of the young from the villages to the big cities; membership 
in the EEC has caused prices to skyrocket; the opening up of the Albanian border has sent 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 691 


a new wave of refugees and pickpockets into the streets of Athens, etc., etc., etc. Eisner’s 
projection for travel writing is not much better, although he does hold out some hope that 
“the tide may be about to turn, back in favor of the essayist whose speculations owe allegiance 
to no school of theory but only to the brilliance of language and the diversity of the world.” 
(263). Eisner has little patience, unfairly so I think, for such popularizers as Michael Wood 
(In Search of the Trojan War), of whom he has this to say: “... Wood’s on-camera pretense 
of making discoveries perverts both scholarship and travel literature.” 

I certainly never had the impression that Wood was making any discoveries, nor do I think 
that he was trying to convey that image. Tim Severin, who has recreated ancient sea voyages, 
comes in for about the same. Eisner tries to close with an upbeat tone in a major key, but 
somehow it seems to contain a false note. It is difficult to escape the thought that “Greece 
is ceasing to be Greece...” (257) and the suggestions for a trip at the very close of the book 
ring hollow, as though he is trying to preserve the joyous memory of sand-lot ball by attending 
a major league game. 

The volume is informative, but one must look past occasional inanities in the writing 
as well as simple errors of fact. The author seems unsure of whether he wants the book to 
be popular or scholarly, and somehow he achieves neither. The earlier sections contain much 
pseudo-sophisticated patter of the sort commonly found in the New Yorker. I offer a few 
examples of the sort of thing I mean: “Delphi, in an age before the social sciences laid down 
statistical ideals for living, supplied advice of all sorts to sundry and all who could make 
the journey to the southern slopes of Parnassus and afford the exorbitant Delphiote inns, 
tavernas, sacrificial goats, sacred loaves, and ritual shampoos requisite before the mumbo-jumbo 
priestess and her glib priest-interpreter could be consulted ...” (27-28). Or this, when he 
writes of the difficulty of using a guide book in antiquity: “...the process of unrolling and 
rerolling a papyrus scroll was too cumbersome for on-site consultation, on a hot morning, 
with the cicadas’ song rising in pitch, and one’s sandals so tight, and the shade and the wine 
and the slave boy so tempting.” (32) This sort of thing has no place either in scholarly or 
popular writing, and it is discouraging to encounter it ina volume which should be a standard 
book on the subject. Occasional errors of fact also appear. For example, this statement from 
the first chapter: “They [the Greeks] appeared on the Mediterranean scene c. two thousand 
B.C., having slowly migrated with their flocks down the Balkan peninsula, and across the 
Pindus Mountains from the plains of Eurasia.” There is no evidence for this statement, nor 
is there any evidence for the comment about the “smaller, darker native farmers whom they 
[the Greeks] ousted from the best land or else enserfed.” There is no skeletal evidence to 
support the statement about size, no evidence at any period about color, and absolutely no 
evidence that anyone was “ousted” or “enserfed” at this time. In spite of this sort of difficulty, 
however, the book deserves a reading. 

Eisner’s book does a good job of providing the broad picture, while other writers have 
concentrated on travelers from particular countries or on specific individuals. We turn now 
to a recent study by Olga Augustinos which concentrates on a group of French travelers 
to Greece. It deals with the relations among three groups: French travelers, ancient Greeks, 
and modern Greeks. The author presents a picture of how the French travelers, who came 
to Greece with preconceived notions about how Greece and the Greeks ought to appear, 
eventually came to grips with the much different, modern reality which confronted them. 
The six chapters are arranged chronologically. The first chapter,“The Uses of Hellenism 
from the Renaissance to the Romantic Era,” sets up a framework for the book, while the 


692 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


following five chapters examine specific periods of time within that frame. Their titles are: 
First Contacts: French Travelers to Greece 1550-1750; Athens and its Monuments: The 
Seventeenth Century; The Rise of Philhellenism; Chateaubriand’s Greece: The Romantic 
Pilgrimage; Toward a Broader Image of Modern Greece. An epilogue, “Rebirth amid the 
Ruins,” deals with the outbreak of the Greek War of Independence. The volume also contains 
extensive notes and a valuable, sixteen-page bibliography. 

The opening chapter establishes the importance of the early travelers. The books they 
wrote describing their experiences and the places and monuments they had seen hada crucial 
effect on western Europe. “By pointing out the differences and some latent similarities between 
the ancient and modern Greeks and by accepting their racial kinship, these travelers built 
a bridge linking the ancient land and the contemporary people. By describing ancient monuments 
in their physical setting, they also constructed a bridge connecting the abstract and academic 
Hellenism propagated through literary sources with the visual and tangible creations of the 
classical past” (48). 

The remaining chapters survey the specific travelers and their various contributions 
to the genre of travel writing and, occasionally, to the larger stream of western thought. 
Augustinos’ work on the early travelers is informative. For example, in the second chapter 
she deals with the first visits of northern Europeans to Greece and Asia Minor. She points 
out that the first country to establish diplomatic contact with the Ottoman empire was France. 
The ambassador’s name was Jean de la Foret, and the date was 11 February 1535. In the 
wake of the first ambassador there came a wave of attendants, missionaries, and travelers 
some of whom had a greater influence on subsequent Greek studies than others. 

Some visitors, such as Joseph Tournefort, Belon, ef al., had an interest in the natural 
world. Others had an interest in antiquities, most significantly Jacob Spon, whose works 
are still consulted by archaeologists in their ongoing attempts to locate and identify ancient 
sites. All these travelers, however, had in mind the goal of setting down their experiences 
in writing. Among the wonderful discoveries made by these early travelers, Augustinos notes 
the recovery of many manuscripts. One of particular interest was a text of Strabo’s Geography 
found by the abbe Sevin in Constantinople in 1729. 

Not all of these early travelers were kind to the country they found, and Augustinos 
does not try to hide their destructiveness. She documents, for example, one traveler’s attempts 
to record inscriptions: “Fourmont’s method of investigation, as he described it all too often 
in his letters, was to hire a group of local laborers and have them demolish any structures 
that bore signs of antiquity and whose walls were embedded with inscriptions. ... Once the 
inscriptions were copied, he ordered his workers to break them, thus erasing every trace 
of their existence. His destructive fury gained momentum as he moved southward...” (89-90). 
Many of the inscriptions which he claimed to have seen have since been shown to be forgeries. 

Surely the most important of the early visitors was the doctor from Lyon, Jacob Spon, 
and he accordingly receives a thorough treatment from Augustinos. From the impulse for 
his first interest in travelling to Greece to the publication of his multi-volume set on his travels, 
the author gives us a good look at just exactly what Spon and his British companion George 
Wheler accomplished on their journeys. It was nothing less than the initiation of scientific 
investigation of the monuments of ancient Greece, in particular the city of Athens. Other 
travelers of note who receive similar treatment are Choiseul-Gouffier, Chateaubriand, and 
Poqueville, all of whom left behind lengthy records of their travels. 

The seven pages of postscript contain a neat summary of Augustinos’ findings. The 





Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 693 


sixteenth century French had great admiration for Hellenes, if little real knowledge accompanied 
that admiration. The seventeenth saw the rise of interest in antiquities by both scholars and 
treasure-seekers. In the eighteenth century a layer of romanticism was added to the admiration 
for the monuments. Monuments and landscape were the primary focus of these French 
phil-Hellenes, yet the people and their continuity with the past were also an object of interest. 
Augustinos has done a fine job of providing us with an overview of four centuries of French 
travelers to the Mediterranean, their motives and effects on subsequent travelers. 

From a volume which focuses on travelers from a specific country, we turn to one 
which focuses ona specific traveler. This chronicle of a young American’s travels in Greece 
near the turn of the nineteenth century is simply titled, Nicholas Biddle in Greece: The Journals 
and Letters of 1806. Nicholas Biddle (1786-1844) was a member of a prominent family in 
Philadelphia who became one of the foremost bankers in early America. More importantly 
for our purposes, however, he was (at least according to the editor) the second person we 
know of to travel to Greece from America, and “the first to leave behind an account of what 
he saw.” (1). He travelled for two months on horseback at a time when convenience was 
an unknown commodity. 

Biddle made the trip when he was a young man, 20 years old, with literary aspirations. 
He was, for a while, the editor of a journal (Port Folio 1812-1814), and even edited the 
journals of the explorers Lewis and Clark. Biddle never published his journals or letters 
from Greece, nor did he leave them in a polished literary form. In spite of this, they demand 
our attention. Biddle writes with a keen eye and an interest not only in the landscape and 
monuments of Greece, but in the people as well. This sets him apart from his contemporaries 
such as Dodwell and Leake who were no doubt interested in the people but chose not to 
write about them. 

McNeal has written a 48 page introduction, which he has divided into five sections. 
The first contains a biography of Biddle, from his enrollment in the University of Pennsylvania 
at the age of ten, to his patronage of Greek revival architecture in his later years. The four 
other sections deal with background issues and are headed: “The Political Condition of Europe,” 
(which is further subdivided into three sections on The French Imperium, The American 
War Against Tripoli, and The Ottoman Empire); “The Journals as Literature;” “The Provenance 
and Description of the Journals and Letters;” and finally a brief section on “Editorial 
Procedures.” McNeal’s footnotes are full of good bibliography on travel to the Mediterranean, 
especially n. 20 on p. 31. 

One of the joys of Biddle’s journals lies in the degree to which his personality comes 
through in his writing. As McNeal points out (with a curiously defensive posture), Biddle 
is more open in this respect than the great topographer and traveler, Col. William Leake, 
who was also active in Greece at about the same time. Here is Biddle on the difference between 
traveling in Italy and Greece: 


I had just seen Italy. No man can be indifferent to the light of these objects which 
have commanded the admiration of the world, & surely Italy combines almost 
every possible inducement that can interest. Yet Italy has been so often seen that 
the sight becomes less interesting from its frequency. A traveller looks on nothing 
which has not already been looked at by a hundred thousand before him, which 
has not been measured & criticized by men whose only pursuit in life was to 
illustrate them. ... The walks of curiosity are so crowded that one is elbowed out 


694 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


of his road by the herd of brother pilgrims all hastening to drink at the same 
fountain. It may perhaps also be an unsocial principle, but knowledge is doubly 
valuable when it is exclusive. ...A man therefore will gain more by a voyage in 
Greece because that voyage is less frequently undertaken than that of England 
or Italy. (50-51) 


Here he writes of the benefits of travel: 


The more I have seen of nations the stronger has become my attachment to the institutions 
of that country which bears in its bosom the sacred pinciples of freedom, where all 
my hopes and my ambition tend. The more I have learned the condition of men the 
more have I blessed that family in which my early weakness was protected by maternal 
tenderness, where my mind was bent to the purest sources by the soft hand of a father’s 
affection ... (54). 


Already at the ripe old age of 20, Biddle stands as one of the early democratic aristocrats, 
thirsty for knowledge and adventure, yet aware of his position. In contrast, his religious 
intolerance (e.g. pp. 58-59, and 73) is representative of his youth and the age in which he 
lived. 

Biddle’s descriptive passages, while not what one would call great literature, do reveal 
an observant eye. Here is his description of the bay of Naples: “... one of the most elegant 
in the world. A large amphitheatre [is] covered with little towns which glitter on the coast, 
crowned by the Vesuvius whose dark & threatening sides contrast agreeably with the 
surrounding verdure, bordered in part by a populous city ...” (51). His description, terse 
though it be, rings true, and calls forth unmistakable memories for all who have seen this 
charming bay. There are many similar passages. It is worth noting that the first 34 pages 
of the journal describe various places in Italy (including Naples and Sicily) and Malta. It 
was from Italy that he embarked on the journey which took him first to Zante (Zakynthos), 
then to Patras and the mainland. 

Biddle’s reflections on the peoples and places he saw range over a wide field. He comments 
on the relative merits of justice systems (“We boast of our institutions, & yet in obtaining 
justice ... we consume years & lives while the meanest Turk gets his cause decided in two 
minutes,” 149), on the nature of the folk who inhabit the various cities he visits (“The Boeotians 
are still a heavy, clownish & vicious people. ...The Athenians have not these vices and are 
comparatively polite & affable. ... The Spartans are rude & uncivil.” [116], but cf. his 
comments on the Spartans on p. 185 where he says they are “among the most polite and 
affable Greeks.”), and of course on the antiquities of every site he visits. 

Biddle’s journals provide us with a much different perspective than that to be gained 
by reading the writings of his contemporary travelers. This is a welcome addition to the 
growing body of works dealing with travel to the Mediterranean. 

While the studies discussed above concentrate on more recent travelers, the volume 
of collected essays edited by G. Camassa is concerned exclusively with antiquity. This is 
an extremely valuable collection of thirteen essays which cover a broad range of topics 
concerning travel inthe ancient world. In addition to co-editing the volume, Giorgio Camassa 
wrote a ten-page introduction to the collection. The bibliographical note which he appended 
to this section is a succinct introduction to the whole field. 

The contributions in this volume do not pretend to treat the subject in any comprehensive 





Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 695 


way. Rather they deal with quite particular aspects of travel in antiquity, or with travel as 
represented in certain ancient authors. There are essays on travel for the purpose of founding 
a colony (F. Trotta), and for the pursuit of business (U. Fantasia); travel as portrayed in 
Polybius (G. Zecchini), in the plays of Plautus (E. Cadoni), and in Pliny the Younger’s letters 
(S. Fasce); aspects of traveling in particular places: Magna Graecia (G.D. Massaro), Sardinia 
(A. Mastino & R. Zucca), and Apulia (A. Luisi); travel to impossible destinations such as 
the other world (G. Moretti), and impossible journeys (G. Crevatin & C. Lefons). Essays 
on travel in the Hadrianic period (A. Contini), hospitality to itinerant preachers (U. Lugli) 
and traveling and festival as philosophical allegory (M. Sassi) complete the volume. 

The title of the collection is a reflection of the diversity of the contents, from the idea 
of travel in Sassi’s essay to the realities as noted in the three ’archaeological’ essays on specific 
places. It would not fit the scope of this note to attempt to summarize the arguments in the 
various essays; suffice it to say that they are all well-done and may be read with profit. The 
only difficulty I find with this volume is a lack of maps and photographs to accompany the 
articles on Sardinia and Apulia in particular, Magna Graecia less so, since it deals more 
specifically with problems of navigation rather than exclusively topographical matters. All 
of the articles are, however, well-annotated so there is no want of source material to track 
down such aids. 

The modern visitor to Italy and Greece steps into a landscape which is physically, 
intellectually, and emotionally peculiar. These places are the cradles of western civilization 
whether the mavens of political correctness would have it so or not. In addition to an awareness 
of this basic importance, however, we bring with us the Romantic ideal of these places as 
it has been formed by various western writers of note for some 200 years or so. But what 
we actually find when we arrive in Athens or Rome is nothing like either the ancient world, 
or the Romantic idealized picture we may carry within us. What we find is, in fact, what 
Eisner so vividly describes in the final chapter of his book: a noisy, crowded, polluted, and 
often uncomfortable place, filled with poured-concrete buildings and tourists who somehow 
believe that they are in a place where they may do as they please regardless of place or time. 
I have been traveling to Italy and (more often) Greece for 20 years now, and even in that 
short time I have seen many of the sorts of changes of which Eisner complains: rampant 
inflation, public services incapable of keeping pace with the huge increase in population, 
etc. Nevertheless we continue to return, and to approach these places with a kind of reverence. 
Why? For me, it will always be the combination of the people, the landscape, and the 
monuments, no one of which I could do justice to in a sentence or a paragraph. We are 
connected to Italy and Greece in ways unlike those which connect us to any other land we 
may know, and it behooves us to reflect on the nature of this connection. It is good to know 
that we stand in a long tradition of travelers to these places. Such volumes as those mentioned 
here are capable of putting us in closer touch with that tradition, and therefore it is to be 
hoped that the current proliferation of works on this topic will continue for a long time to 
come. 


Timothy F. Winters, Vanderbilt University 


696 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


Hans Conrad Peyer, Viaggiare nel Medioevo: dali’ospitalita alla locanda, trad. 
di N. Antonacci. Bari: Laterza, 1991. Pp. 397. 


Antoni Maczak, Travel in Early Modern Europe, transi. by Ursula Philips. 
Cambridge, UK: Polity Press, 1995. Pp. 357 [Italian Translation: Viaggi e 
viaggiatori nell’Europa moderna, a cura di R. Panzone e A. Litwornia. Bari: 
Laterza, 1994. Pp. 517]. 


Jeremy Black, The British Abroad: The Grand Tour in the Eighteenth Century. 
New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1992. Pp. 355. 


Sono tre volumi complementari, benché di approccio leggermente diverso, quelli che qui 
presentiamo; tre testi che offrono una base solida e ben documentata a chi é interessato a 
studiare seriamente le modalita del viaggio dal Medioevo al Settecento. Peyer, Maczak e 
Black riportano ai suoi parametri storici il “mito” (0, peggio, quello che si é potuto chiamare 
il “romanzo”) del viaggiare, senza fronzoli sentimentali o particolari edificanti: il dato oggettivo 
offerto al lettore é basato su testi inoppugnabili, spesso inediti 0 poco noti. Se le illustrazioni 
potranno sembrare troppo parsimoniose (eccetto per il volume di Black), gli é che si tratta 
di lavori di alta divulgazione: per un testo in inglese riccamente illustrato il lettore potra 
sempre ricorrere all’ottimo e ancor utile studio di Christopher Hibbert (The Grand Tour. 
Londra: Thames Methuen, 1897). Il divertissement che il lettore trovera nella lettura di questi 
volumi€ tutto nella consapevolezza di poter entrare nello spirito del viaggiatore d’altri tempi, 
senza risparmiarsi i particolari brutali, le difficolta e le pene della Via Crucis quotidiana, 
in sella o in carrozza, al sole 0 sotto pioggia o neve. 

Il lavoro di Hans Conrad Peyer, il pit teorico dei tre volumi che qui si presentano, 
€ uno studio poderoso sul fenomeno dell’ospitalita nell’Europa medievale, sviluppatasi a 
partire dall’accoglienza gratuita dei pellegrini fino a quella ufficiale per i nobili, all’alloggio 
“dovuto” ai potenti di passaggio e, infine, all’ istituzione della taverna/locanda che generalmente 
Si costituisce attorno al Duecento per ospitare mercanti e viaggiatori. I] viaggio in quanto 
tale (le sue modalita e le idiosincrasie che lo caratterizzano nei documenti che ci rimangono) 
€ trattato solo parenteticamente in questo volume, il quale analizza nella parte introduttiva, 
pit filosofica e antropologica, idiversi stadi dell’ ospitalita per collegarlia stadi corrispondenti 
di sviluppo delle culture: |’ ospite come nemico/amico diventa “oggetto” nella cultura moderna, 
in cui predomina |’economia monetaria. La seconda parte del volume analizza pil specificamente 
la presenza nei documenti storici di tutte le forme di ospitalita (ecclesiastica, mercantile e 
nobiliare), mentre una terza parte, pil aneddotica studia “Le locande nel basso Medioevo”, 
istituzioni pubbliche, luoghi di scambio con funzioni, talora, di mercato. 

Chi volesse cercare nello studio del Peyer un’analisi del viaggio propriamente detto 
(dimenticando il sottotitolo di questo volume che ne chiarifica la messa a fuoco) potrebbe 
rimanerne deluso. Potrebbe, tuttavia, rivolgersi all’opera, ancora valida, di Margaret Wade 
Labarge, Medieval Travellers (New York-London: Norton, 1982), costruita, per altro, sugli 
stessi schemi dei lavori di Maczak e di Black di cui parleremo qui sotto. 

Le strutture del secondo e del terzo volume di questa rassegna si assomigliano. II testo 
di Maczak, scritto vent’anni fa, parte dallo studio della strada, delle condizioni del traffico 
e dei mezzi di trasporto, per soffermarsi sulle condizioni delle locande e del soggiorno, sui 





Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 697 


costi, sull’igiene generale, sul viaggio di gruppo. Capitoli molto illuminanti sono dedicati 
anche ai pericoli del viaggio e alle varie categorie di viaggiatori che percorrevano le strade 
medievali (artisti, studiosi, letterati) e a quanto li poteva interessare, una volta arrivati alla 
meta. Devo confessare di non aver visto né l’originale polacco del volume di Maczak né 
la sua versione francese. Un confronto fra la traduzione inglese e quella italiana mi porta 
a favorire la seconda, per il migliore, pid approfondito aggiornamento bibliografico. Certo, 
si sarebbe potuto fare molto di pil, magari citando alcuni dei dei documenti inediti e degli 
studi usciti nel decennio precedente la pubblicazione. L’edizione inglese, tra l’altro, mi sembra 
aver spesso eliminato citazioni interessanti che ho trovato in quella italiana. Se tali citazioni 
fossero dovute solo al lavoro di Renzo Panzone e Andrzej Litwornia, cui si deve la “traduzione, 
integrazione e aggiornamento dei dati bibliografici”, sarebbe opportuno dare loro ampio 
credito per la qualita e l’accuratezza dell’edizione italiana. Un appunto, sempre di ordine 
bibliografico, resta tuttavia da farsi ai curatori dell’edizione italiana: le numerose citazioni 
del diario secentesco di Sebastiano Locatelli (il Viaggio di Francia, sul quale si leggera il 
saggio di Albert Mancini in questo stesso volume, pp. 230-245) sono tradotte dall’edizione 
francese del Vautier (1905), mentre il testo di Locatelli era stato pubblicato in Italia fin dal 
1990 (Moncalieri, C.I.R.V.I.). 

Il volume di Black ricalca praticamente lo stesso schema del precedente: il numero 
dei viaggiatori inglesi del Settecento, i loro itinerari, i costi del viaggio, le locande e il cibo 
che offrivano, gli incidenti (spesso divertenti), senza dimenticare malattie, avventure sentimentali 
e divagazioni sessuali, reazioni politiche e sociali, crisi religiose e, finalmente, |’influenza 
del Grand Tour sull’arte. E una riedizione rifusa, ampliata e aggiornata del suo The British 
and The Grand Tour (Londra: Croom Helm, 1985), e si presenta con eleganza ed accuratezza 
tipografica. Il gusto per l’aneddoto gli da vivacita e varieta e ne rende la lettura interessante 
ed avvincente: tuttavia l’aneddoto non é mai fine a se stesso. II viaggiatore inglese del Settecento 
finisce per essere molto pil vicino di quanto si possa sospettare al turista moderno. La “moving 
Academy”, come James Howell aveva definito il Grand Tour secentesco, ora é trasformata 
in “elegant amusement” e “fashionable pleasure”, una moda che presto si svuota di molti 
dei valori culturali che erano all’origine della “Peripatetique schoole”, questo viaggio 
aristocratico d’istruzione che costituiva il complemento alla formazione universitaria secentesca. 
Nell’Inghilterra del Settecento, per usare un’espressione di Lord Findlater, “a little tour 
of Italy ... furnishes rather an additional fund for elegant amusement in private life than 
anything useful”. 

L’analisi del viaggio fatta dallo storico finisce per diversificarsi profondamente da quella 
che generalmente offre lo studioso di letteratura: quest’ultimo tende spesso a divagare o 
almeno ad interpretare, mentre il primo si attiene rigidamente ai fatti e alle fonti; e le sue 
citazioni sono spesso frutto della consultazione di documenti d’archivio raramente citati altrove. 

Possiamo considerare i lavori di Maczak e di Black come opere di seria divulgazione, 
dotate di un solido apparato bibliografico, di note precise, informative ed esatte sulle fonti 
usate. Ed é proprio in grazia della precisione scientifica di questi rimandi a pie’ di pagina 
che al lettore é permesso (lo notino, una buona volta, gli editori italiani che spesso considerano 
le note bibliografiche un lusso di cui si puo fare a meno) di lanciarsia sua volta alla riscoperta 
e alla lettura di testi forse dimenticati, sia per continuare la sua ricerca personale che solamente 
per il piacere di leggere i diari originali, il cui interesse non diminuisce mai. I] bel saggio 
di Jeremy Black, soprattutto, rappresenta un ottimo modello da seguire, in quanto l’autore 
é riuscito ad offrire un panorama completo di un fenomeno complesso. I capitoli sul numero 


698 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


dei viaggiatori inglesi nel Continente e sui costi del viaggio sono il frutto di un’ osservazione 
interdisciplinare accurata, che spesso viene ignorata dallo studioso di odeporica, ma che 
é tuttavia essenziale per una comprensione totale del fenomeno. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Jane Robinson, ed. Unsuitable for Ladies: An Anthology of Women Travellers. 
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1994. Pp. 471. 


In 1724, Mary Astell, in her preface to Lady Mary Montagu’s travel account, wrote: “I 
confess that I am malicious enough to desire that the World shou’d howsee to how much 
better purpose the Ladys Travel than their Lords.” Astell’s assertion of the superiority 
of women travellers did not receive universal acceptance, however. A century later, as Jane 
Robinson points out, the prevailing Victorian notion was that “real ladies do not travel.” 
The latter view is epitomized in the stereotype of the ditzy eccentric woman traveller, the 
Hon. Impulsia Gushington, created by Lady Dufferin in an 1863 account delightfully entitled 
Lispings from Low Latitudes. 

The Gushington stereotype has proven to have considerable staying power; it is still 
given credence by some in the general public and in academic circles. Over the past decade, 
however, there has been a veritable “boom” in the writings about women travellers by women 
travel critics seeking to get beyond the stereotype to provide a better understanding of the 
varied and disparate depictions provided by their accounts. Mary Russell produced an overview 
of the world of the 19th-century women travellers in Blessings of a Good Thick Skirt (1986). 
Shirley Foster’s Across New Worlds (1990) represented a major contribution to the study 
of nineteenth-century women travellers and gender differences in travel writing. Sara Mills’ 
Discourses of Difference (1991) analyzed gender differences in discourse and the relationship 
of these differences to British views of imperialism. Others have since pursued the theme 
of imperialism as it relates to different regions, such as Mary Louise Pratt’s Imperial Eyes 
(1992), Billie Melman’s Women’s Orients (1992) and Travel, Gender, and Imperialism 
(1994) by Alison Blunt. Maria Frawley’s A Wider Range (1994) explores the varying 
approaches Victorian women travel writers used to expand their roles in a society that placed 
strictures at home on women’s activities. All of these writers have added to our knowledge 
of the woman traveller and her contribution to the genre. 

But it was not until Robinson’s first book, Wayward Women, that a contemporary 
writer provided readers with a true sense of the magnitude and the diversity of these women 
travellers. This biographical dictionary gave scholars a reference volume identifying the 
principal women who traveled and wrote throughout the centuries and, essentially, provided 
a database from which to work out hypotheses suggested by Foster and others. From this 
array of 400 principally British women who traveled over the globe throughout the past 
seventeen centuries, it is possible to know who traveled, when, where, and, in many cases, 
to begin to understand why. 

In her latest contribution, Robinson has given us yet another resource to advance the 
study of travellers’ writings. Unsuitable for Ladies further dispels the stereotype that women 
travellers came solely from the ranks of the wealthy [and usually repressed], somewhat eccentric 
Victorian spinsters, presenting us with selections from the writings and wanderings of 
Robinson’s favorite women travellers. She contends that women traveled as far and as wide 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 699 


as men, and not as merely unwilling “taggers-on.” Her wide-ranging selections from many 
centuries are arranged regionally and are well-chosen to support her belief that their travel 
writings make a valuable and distinctive contribution to the literature of travel. Women’s 
accounts reflect an interest in the “how” and the “why,” rather than in the “what” and the 
“where” emphasized in men’s narratives. She explains this by noting that men were usually 
commissioned and traveled with an “agenda” that required them to be interested in diplomatic 
relations, the country’s resources, and the like. Historically, women’s observations of 
the customs, habits, and relationships with people, Robinson maintains, stem in part from 
the lack of an “agenda.” Whatever the reason, there is no question that the accounts are 
both valuable to the scholar/historian/travel critic and entertaining to the armchair traveller. 
The selections are vivid and immediate. Abbess Egeria’s fourth-century pilgrimage in which 
she climbs Mount Sinai is no less vivid than the recent account by Christina Dodwell, who 
canoes in South-east Asia and dines on a bowlful of boiled insects. For each region of the 
world, Robinson has judiciously selected pieces from principal works, many of which also 
advance a theme she has used to introduce and frame each geographic set of selections. The 
selections, though brief, are so well-chosen as to give the reader a sense of the nature of 
the observations being made for that region as well as the style, personality, and unique 
contributions of the individual authors. This is not only a delightful selection that meets 
Robinson’s goal of providing an anthology that is “dippable”; it is also yet another step 
in opening up the study of the literature and the themes of interest to travel critics. It is 
particularly helpful to those working in comparative regional or interdisciplinary studies. 

Robinson’s keen eye in selecting illustrations, and her provocative suggestions, both 
of what constitute major differences between women’s and men’s accounts and also of 
possible reasons for those differences make this a peculiarly valuable book even ina period 
of strong work on this subject. 

Over the past decade Victorian women travellers have been studied from a variety of 
perspectives. The straightforward, factual biography has evolved into the psychological analysis 
in an attempt to categorize women’s motivations for travel and writing during that era. 
Several anthologies of selections from travel writing of the period have appeared accompanied 
by brief biographical sketches. Historians have focused on individual regions and what these 
accounts contribute to our knowledge of the region during that period of history. More recently, 
it has become popular to analyze gender differences. Critics have looked at gender differences 
in discourse analyzing the relationship between “self” and “other.” Others have studied gender 
differences as they relate to attitudes toward colonialism and imperialism. Still others have 
focused on the different conventions used in the female travel genre and the ways in which 
traveling and writing became a means of expanding power and the Victorian woman’s roles 
in society. All of these studies have undercut the notion of the inferiority of women’s travel 
accounts. The Victorian women travellers cannot be “typed” their diversity is now documented. 
Their observations and the gender differences in their writings represent a powerful and 
unique contribution to our knowledge of a particular time and place. And their travels and 
writings represented for many of them a means of escape from their traditional roles, a means 
of expanding their roles at home, and a large step toward freedom and self-discovery. Not 
only do their writings reveal much about their interior selves, their travels serve as a metaphor: 
thus, the Swiss traveller Ella Maillart described her journey as her need to discover “the 
unmapped territories of the mind.” Robinson’s selections provide the documentation to 


700 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


assure women’s writings the place they deserve. 


Paula Hattox Covington, Vanderbilt University 


Theodore E. Stebbins, Jr., The Lure of Italy: American Artists and the 
ItalianExperience, 1760-1914. New York: Harry N. Abrams, 1992. 


The Boston Museum of Fine Arts held a major exhibition in 1992 that showcased more than 
seventy-two works related to the American experiences of Italy between 1760 and 1914. 
These dates mark the year when the first American-born artist (Benjamin West) arrived in 
Italy, establishing that country as a prerequisite for any serious American artist’s studies, 
and the beginning of World War I, which contributed to the demise of the American fascination 
with and love for what had previously been considered a haloed, time-honored Arcadia. 
This volume is the catalogue of that exhibition, with essays by Theodore E. Stebbins, Jr., 
William H. Gerdts, Erica E. Hirshler, Fred S. Licht, and William L. Vance. An important 
summary of the American experiences in Italy, it combines with earlier studies that similarly 
examine the visual arts in relation to literature, guidebooks, and travel diaries: E. P. 
Richardson’s exhibition and catalogue, Travelers in Arcadia: American Aniists in Italy, 1830- 
1875 (Detroit: Detroit Institute of Arts and Toledo Museum of Art, 1951), Van Wyck Brooks’s 
The Dream of Arcadia: American Writers and Artists in Italy, 1760-1915 (New York: Durron 
& Co., 1958), Nathalia Wright’s American Novelists in Italy (Philadelphia: University of 
Pennsylvania Press, 1965), William H. Gerdts’s American Neo-Classic Sculpture: The Marble 
Resurrection (New York: Viking, 1973), Margaretta Lovell’s Venice: The American View: 
1866-1920 (San Francisco: Fine Arts Museums, 1984), Irma Jaffe’s three symposia (1987, 
1989, 1991) that explored the Italian influence on American painters, sculptors, architects, 
and collectors, and William L. Vance’s two-volume America’s Rome (New Haven: Yale 
University Press, 1989). 

Benjamin West’s initial visit to Italy in 1760 not only marks the beginning of the American 
artists’s love of and study in Italy, but also their fascination with antiquity. Upon viewing 
the Apollo Belvedere, West observed that it resembled “a young Mohawak warrior,” observing 
that he had “seen them often, standing in that very attitude, and pursuing, with an intense 
eye, the arrow which they had just discharged from the bow.’” Possibly influenced by Johann 
Winckelmann’s comparison between ancient Greek physical perfection and “the swift Indian” 
with “lithe . . . body” in Thoughts on the Imitation of the Art of the Ancients in Painting 
and Sculpture (1755), West imposed on the native races in North America the same sense 
of “noble simplicity and calm grandeur” that the German scholar identified as characteristic 
and admirable of ancient Greece. This established a precedent for West and other Americans 
to visualize Native Americans in terms of ancient sculpture, manifest in Death of General 
Wolfe (1770) in which West based his Iroquois on the Apollo Belvedere as a means to construct 
the Indian as an innocent and noble savage, free from society’s encumbering practices and 
living in harmony with nature, but also as the Vanishing American whose extinction was 
necessary for the progress of Anglo-Saxon civilization in the United States (see my essay 
“Rereading the Indian in Benjamin West’s Death of General Wolfe,” American Art, Ix [1995], 
73-85). As Stebbins accurately points out in The Lure of Italy, the parallels that American 
artists made between the ancient past and the eighteenth-century United States went beyond 
the arts, manifesting itself in the political theory of Thomas Jefferson who employed ancient 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 701 


Roman prototypes as the basis of the young republic’s architectural identity in such buildings 
as the Virginia State Capitol and Monticello (35). This connection between the United States’s 
democratic form of government and that of ancient Greece furthermore manifest itself in 
government structures and monuments throughout the nineteenth century, most visible in 
the U. S. Capitol. 

Nathaniel Hawthorne in his preface to The Marble Faun (1860) best summarized 
nineteenth-century American artists’s dilemma over their fascination with Italy and desire 
to find subject matter in their native country. “Italy, as the site of his romance,” Hawthorne 
wrote, “was chiefly valuable to him as affording a short of poetic or fairy precinct, where 
actualities would not be so terribly insisted upon as they are, and must needs be, in America.” 
Hawthorne continued, “No author can conceive of the difficulty of writing a Romance about 
a country where there is no shadow, no antiquity, no mystery, no picturesque and gloomy 
wrong, nor anything but a commonplace prosperity, in broad and simple daylight, as is happily 
the case with my dear native land.” In their search for an American identity through the 
arts, Americans such as William Cullen Bryant urged artists to “keep that earlier, wilder 
image bright” in spite of the lure of “distant skies” in Europe. His friend and fellow lover 
of the American untouched wilderness, Thomas Cole, consequently founded the Hudson 
River School of landscape painting, an aesthetic that appeared to naturally develop from 
an emergent nationalism in which geographical unity, breath, and scale of the New World 
is conveyed. As Cole extolled in his “Essay on American Scenery” (1835), “though American 
scenery is destitute of many of those circumstances that give value to the European, still 
it has features, and glorious ones, unknown to Europe.” Thus he replaced the arcadian 
landscape of Italy found in his Dream of Arcadia (Denver Art Museum, 1838) with the 
American wilderness and cultivated landscape in a multitude of works such as View from 
Mount Holyoke, Northampton, Massachusetts (1836, The Metropolitan Museum of Art), 
establishing a precedent for American landscape painters who similarly were aware of the 
lure of Italy but concentrated mostly on the United States. 

American sculptors, on the other hand, especially found the lure of Rome and Florence 
so attractive that they settled in these cities to create their Ideal works and portraits. Hiram 
Powers, Horatio Greenough, Thomas Crawford, and the women sculptors of what William 
Wetmore Story dubbed “the white marmoreal flock,” among others, all settled in Florence 
or Rome to study ancient prototypes, live in affordable housing, hire trained stonecarvers, 
have access to marble, and find patronage from the Grand Tourists who visited the studios 
of Americans and Europeans, such as Antonio Canova and Bertel Thorvaldsen, to commission 
life-size and small scale marble statues to decorate their homes. Hiram Powers’s Greek Slave, 
which is based on the Venus de Medici and the Cnidian Venus, especially appealed to American 
and European audiences, resulting in this work being identified as “the most beautiful statue 
in the world” and in the belief that the arts in the United States now rivaled the glory of 
antiquity and surpassed that of modern Europe. The lure of Italy was so great for Powers 
that his statue of America (1848-1850), a personification of the United States, derived its 
meaning in part from his experiences of the Italian Risorgimento (see my essay “Hiram Power’s 
America: “Triumphant as Liberty in Unity’,” The American Art Journal, XVII [1986], 54-75). 

During the turn-of-the-century, American sculptors, architects, and some painters continued 
to emulate Italian art, turning now to the Renaissance for their own more eclectic and 
cosmopolitan American Renaissance. The Columbian Exposition of 1893 combined Roman 
antiquity with the Italian Renaissance to proclaim the United States as the inheritor of these 


702 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


great civilizations. The architect of this “Great White City,” Charles Follen McKim, joined 
with others such as Elihu Vedder, Augustus St. Gaudens, John LaFarge, and Charles Eliot 
to found the American School of Architecture in Rome in 1894 (61), while Isabella Steward 
Gardner transferred a Venetian palazzo to Boston to house her collection that included Titian, 
Veronese, Tintoretto (125-126). Just as the American presence in Italy became institutionalized 
and official through the American academy in Rome, however, the appeal of this city and 
the classical world declined for some American painters such as Winslow Homer and Thomas 
Eakins who preferred the coast of Great Britain or the city of Paris. Only James McNeil 
Whistler found inspiration in Venice, while his fellow expatriates, John Sargent, William 
Merrit Chase, and Mary Cassatt, visited Italy, but found stimulation elsewhere: in the case 
of Cassatt, for example, in Spain and among her fellow French Impressionists in Paris (M. 
E. Boone, “Bullfights and Balconies: Flirtation and Majismo in Mary Cassatt’s Spanish Paintings 
of 1872-1873,” American Art, IX [1995], 55-72). 

As Fred S. Licht demonstrates in “American Artists in Twentieth-Century Italy,” the 
Italian Futurists contributed to the continued loss of interest in their country’s past, for their 
proclaimed desire to destroy their heritage and their xenophobia that became absorbed by 
Fascism after 1922, “made the atmosphere increasingly inhospitable” for Americans as manifest 
in Hemingway’s short story, “Che ti dice la Patria?” (132). What needs to be elaborated 
upon, however, is the fact that the exchange between these two countries never died. Joseph 
Stella assimilated the influences of the Italian Futurists in his Battle of Lights, Coney Island 
(1913, Yale University Art Gallery) to capture the speed and dynamism of America’s 
industrialized amusement park (see Irma Jaffe, Joseph Stella. Cambridge: Harvard University 
Press, 1970, p. 42). This expatriate from Muro Lucano settled in New York City and became 
fascinated with machine technology, appropriating the style of his fellow countrymen to create 
his own aesthetic. Cy Twombly, on the other hand, still lives and works in Rome to create 
his so called “writings” that relate to Abstract Expressionism. The lure of Italy, in other 
words, continues as a vital aspect of American culture, manifest also in the number of 
Americans who travel there to see the same glories as their eighteenth and nineteenth century 
predecessors. 


Vivien Green Fryd, Vanderbilt University 


Remo Ceserani. Treni di carta: ’immaginario in ferrovia: l’irruzione del treno 
nella letteratura moderna. Genova: Marietti, 1993. Pp. 305. 


Remo Ceserani’s study of trains in literature is not so much about travel as it is about a means 
for travel. As its title signals, the focus of this erudite and provocative study is the arrival—the 
eruption the author calls it—of the steam locomotive as it high-balled into European literary 
consciousness in the first decades of the last century. The book’s ten chapters trace the different 
ways the explosion of this traumatic as well as exhilarating technology was absorbed into 
the European literary imagination: “il lento lavoro svolto dalla letteratura europea per 
familiarizzare, addomesticare, sublimare un’esperienza lacerante” (13). Through careful 
analysis of an abundance of texts, Ceserani demonstrates how the literatures of Germany, 
France, England, Russia, Italy, and the United States were able to cushion the impact (ch. 
I) the railroad had on nineteenth-century society and literature; contain the eruption (ch. 
II) of the locomotive into the Romantic and post-Romantic imaginations; stitch up the lacerations 
(ch. III) the engine whistle made on sensibilities like that of the reclusive Thoreau; and explain 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 703 


the disturbing messages (ch. IV) emanating from the new technology as registered by writers 
as different from each other as Charles Dickens in England and Giovanni Pascoli in Italy. 

Few technological advances can match the sudden and dramatic effect that steam 
locomotives and the “strade ferrate” that bore them had on the countryside and cities of 
post-Napoleonic Europe: the railroad, in addition to being a social and economic force of 
exceptional magnitude, stimulated some of the most significant changes in European city 
landscapes since the Renaissance. First in England, France, and Germany, then a little later 
in Italy, the iron horse not only began to gallop across the countryside but also burst through 
what were once inviolate city walls into the very heart of the urban living space. Here stations 
were erected to receive and nurture the steel beast that stood cheek by jowl alongside the 
churches and cathedrals with which they were soon both favorably (Gautier, though grudgingly) 
and unfavorably (Ruskin) compared. 

The European masters of nineteenth-century prose realism were of course acutely aware 
of this new presence in the midst of their communities’ social and imaginative lives, and 
the defining names of this tradition—Dickens, Tolstoy, Zola—all stoke the boilers of Ceserani’s 
account as do such later authors as Hardy, Maupassant, D.H. Lawrence, and Pirandello. 
In addition to drawing from this fiction, Ceserani also quotes from such essayists of the period 
as Gautier, Ruskin, H. C. Andersen and, later, Walter Benjamin, and from the poetry of 
Heine, Carducci, Wordsworth, Whitman, Victor Hugo, and many others. 

Anespecially dense and illuminating chapter at the center of Ceserani’s book is devoted 
to La béte humaine, Emile Zola’s “romanzo ferroviario” of 1890. Making use of recent 
criticism by Serres, Deleuze, Barthes, Hamon, Bernard, and others, the author provides 
a sensitive and thorough reading of this “giallo alla rovescia” with a railroad setting in which 
a locomotive—the hero’s erotically valenced partner “Lison”—occupies an important position 
in the intersecting network of the book’s character system. The chapter also considers two 
famous film versions of Zola’s work, Jean Renoir’s 1924 La béte humaine and Fritz Lang’s 
Human Desire of 1954. 

In the second half of the book, Ceserani considers some of the recurrent themes in 
novels and movies that deal with the railroad. These include the trope of the station as a 
dramatic setting for expectation, departure, and separation; the enclosed space of the 
compartment as conducive to unforeseen encounters including erotic ones; the train window 
as a visual synecdoche for life’s temptations and missed opportunities; the deadly wheels 
of the carriages as reminders of the fragility of our human existence; and travel by train 
as both a beguiling opportunity to break with routine and a symbol of how, after a more 
or less eventful journey, our lives too must one day arrive at their inevitable destination. 

After an examination of the role played by trains in fantastic literature, in spy and mystery 
novels and films (Conan Doyle, Agatha Christie, and of course Hitchcock—an especially 
interesting part of the book), and in children’s literature, the study concludes with a kind 
of double caboose in the form of two brief chapters on Futurist trains in Italy, Germany, 
France, and America, and on trains and stations in Pirandello. For Ceserani, the latter writer 
recycles many of the negative connotations of the train as determined by the anti-industrialist 
and anti-machine traditions of the nineteenth century, but couples his representations of trains 
and the railroad with upheavals of both a social and a psychological nature that frequently 
confound temporal and spatial expectations (279). 

Throughout his book, which is at once an anthology and an essay in intellectual and 
literary history, Ceserani’s treatment of his subject matter is unabashedly thematic—an approach 


704 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


to literature he believes may find Italian readers “poco addestrati” (9), given the “interesse 
molto tiepido, negli studiosi italiani di storiografia letteraria” (12) for this sort of analysis. 
Certainly, however, there is an important place for work of this kind in the schools and 
on the critic’s bookshelf. Ceserani’s balanced and intelligent study is sure to be an enduring 
reference as the age of steam fades more and more into the distance and the snorting, shrieking, 
puffing, and whistling steam locomotive gives way entirely to the quieter but somehow less 
intriguing automobile and airplane. 


Charles Klopp, The Ohio State University 


Georges Van Den Abbeele, Travel As Metaphor from Montaigne to Rousseau. 
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1992. Pp. 177. 


The voyage as metaphor runs the risk of being appropriated by any and all modes of western 
thought. Science, philosophy, history, writing, commerce, religion--all have easily and often 
been understood in terms of the voyage. Although this has been the case since the gradual 
expansion of European travel in the sixteenth century, theorizing travel has seen a distinct 
vogue in the last few decades. Georges Van Den Abbeele’s slim but thoughtful volume, 
Travel as Metaphor from Montaigne to Rousseau is an important addition to the field of 
travel theory. Through sophisticated readings of the work of Montaigne, Descartes, Montesquieu 
and Rousseau, Van Den Abbeele touches on the ways in which travel functions as a metaphor 
for critical (philosophic) thought. As he explains, whenever we call the existing order into 
question by stepping “outside” it we invoke the metaphor of thought as travel. Van Den 
Abbeele exposes the problematic cross-over between philosophical and literary texts, which 
the metaphor of travel exemplifies. 

Van Den Abbeele’s critical readings operate out of two main theoretical fields: 
deconstruction and psychoanalysis. His attentive close readings attempt to bring to light how 
the combination of literal and metaphorical “travel” that these philosophers undertake always 
implicates itself in some way. Each of the authors has a “mode” of travel which belongs 
properly to him. For Montaigne it is the horse; for Descartes it is water; for Montesquieu 
it is aerial vision; for Rousseau it is traveling by foot. These particular “modes” of travel 
expose the inherent instability that runs as an undercurrent in any attempt to fix a totalizing 
philosophical standpoint. Van Den Abbeele sees it as his primary task to bring these 
undercurrents to the fore. 

Of central importance for Van Den Abbeele is the relationship between home and travel. 
He understands travel in terms of an “economy” (from the Greek, oikos), a circular motion 
from home to abroad to home again. In doing so he argues that the oikos or domus domesticates 
the voyage by giving it a fixed point of reference. Van Den Abbeele plays with this model 
of an ideal travel economy, one that circumscribes a closed route and which returns without 
loss. He questions the possibility that the voyage can be totally circumscribed. The metaphor 
of travel in the works of the four philosophers he has chosen reveals the hidden fissures 
in the stability of the domus. This instability contributes to both the excitement and the fear 
of the voyage. Every voyage, as he says, brings with it the fear of death, exile, or homelessness. 
Each of these philosophers, therefore, is fundamentally concerned with somehow locating 
the domus in himself. By reading philosophy inthis way, Van Den Abbeele follows Derrida’s 
fundamental critique of western metaphysics (i.e., that the unity of the One, which undergirds 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 705 


western philosophy, can never account entirely for that which it attempts to enclose). 

At the same time, Van Den Abbeele follows Harold Bloom’s well known formulation: 
that the authors of every generation seek to come to terms with their literary forefathers 
in an Oedipal manner. Van Den Abbeele also focuses on the more explicitly Oedipal relationship 
of each man with his actual father. The proper name is implicated in his readings of these 
authors as a means of demonstrating how they are all concerned with their own paternity 
(both with their having been fathered and the possibility of their own ability to father a child, 
to hand down their name). 

Some readers may find his deconstructionist method over elaborate (indeed, as much 
as any other critical method, deconstruction seems to fall most easily victim to charges of 
obscurantism from those outside literary studies). Once the reader accepts his theoretical 
position, however, the work is as careful as they come. His introductory exposition is especially 
rich, but there is much to be gleaned from each of his close readings. Rodolphe Gasché 
(The Tain of the Mirror) has warned us about the misappropriation of deconstruction by 
literary criticism. Van Den Abbeele shows us how the two can function properly together 
in such a way as to provide new insights into problematical theoretical questions. 


P. Kenneth Himmelman, Vanderbilt University 


Frank Lestringant. Le Cannibale: Grandeur et décadence. Paris: Perrin, 1994. 
Pp. 320. 


Ii nome di Lestringant, ben noto agli addetti ai lavori nell’area dell’ odeporica internazionale, 
non poteva mancare in questa rassegna bibliografica. La produzione scientifica dello studioso 
francese, dopo le edizioni dei Tragiques di d’Aubigné, delle Singularités de la France 
antarctique di Thevet e dell’ Histoire d’un voyage en terre de Brésil di Jean de Léry, é confluita 
recentemente in una serie di saggi su Thevet (André Thevet, cosmographe des derniers valois. 
Ginevra: Droz, 1991; L’Atelier du cosmographe, ou l’image du monde a la Renaissance. 
Paris: Albin Michel, 1992) e sulla interpretazione della cosmografia cinquecentesca (Ecrire 
le monde a la Renaissance: Quinze études sur Rabelais, Postel, Bodin et la littérature 
géographique. Caen: Paradigme, 1993). 

In questa sede preferiremmo, tuttavia, privilegiare un suo recente lavoro sull’alterita, 
a cui Lestringant giunge come corollario, si direbbe, delle sue edizioni di diari di viaggi 
in Brasile, in quella “France antarctique” che duro, ahimé, solo “l’espace d’un matin.” 

Due appuntamenti con i cannibali, con un intervallo di tre secoli, ha visto la citta di 
Rouen. Nel 1562, dopo la riconquista della citta da parte delle truppe cattoliche, durante 
l’ingresso solenne nella citta del re-bambino, Carlo IX, e di Caterina de’ Medici, sua madre, 
la famiglia reale incontra un gruppo di “selvaggi” appena sbarcati dal Brasile, scombussolati 
(e chi non lo sarebbe stato?) dalla confusione che regnava nell’Europa “civile”. Montaigne, 
che ha occasione di intervistarli, si offre negli Essais di farsi il portavoce dei cannibali e 
di darci la prima analisi critica dell’Europa come la “scoprirono” i cannibali brasiliani. (Ma 
Rouen non era nuova a queste visite: la citta aveva visto le prime “fétes brésiliennes” tenute 
in Europa, in occasione di un altro ingresso solenne, quello di Enrico II il 1 ottobre 1550, 
un spettacolo straordinario tenuto per onorare il re di Francia in un momento in cui stava 
cercando di aprirsi un varco in territori gia invasi da spagnoli e portoghesi.) Nel 1863, il 
giorno dopo Natale, sempre a Rouen, Flaubert si reca a vedere un gruppo di Cafri del Sudafrica, 


706 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


una scena da baraccone, si direbbe: “Il me semblait voir les premiers hommes de la terre. 
Cela venait de naitre et rampait encore avec les crapaud et les crocodiles,” scrivera in una 
lettera. 

Il volume di Lestringant si propone di collegare idealmente questi due episodi, studiando 
l’evoluzione del concetto di cannibale attraverso questi ultimi secoli di storia. 

Scoperto da Colombo, che lo abbina al cinocefalo, pubblicizzato da Pietro Martire 
d’Anghiera, ripreso da Thevet, illustrato da Miinster et da Waldseemiiller, diffuso da Vespucci, 
il cannibale finisce ben presto per concentrare sulla sua persona i delitti pil perversi che 
l’uomo puo immaginare: incesto, infanticidio, allelofagia. Bastera dichiarare antropofagi 
i membri della pit tranquilla tribl dei Caraibi per poter giustificarne la schiavitt e la 
distruzione. 

Con abilita e grande erudizione, Lestringant conduce il lettore attraverso la storia del 
cannibalismo fino alla scena del relitto della “Meduse”, la fregata francese che naufrago 
nel 1816, immortalata da Delacroix. Dal “degré zéro du Cannibale” nel Cinquiéme Livre 
di Rabelais, razza vagamente leggendaria, creata da dicerie “tenant escole de tesmoignerie” 
(p. 82), presente nelle auctoritates scientifiche, da Plinio a Isidoro di Siviglia, git git fino 
all’Ottocento letterario francese e inglese, € una panoramica interessantissima e varia 
sull’umanita aberrante. 

La conclusione di questa dotta ricerca di Lestringant sugli aspetti pit radicalmente diversi 
dell’“alterita” finisce per far ritornare il lettore, idealmente, al punto di partenza. Se, come 
diceva Rimbaud, “Je est un autre”, &é pur vero che—e lo sottolinea bene Pierre Chaunu 
nell’introduzione— “dans ce miroir de |’ Autre, c’est notre visage que vous verrez, sous toutes 
ses faces” (p. 22). Ci piaccia 0 meno, i Cannibali sono un po’ i nostri antenati. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Theodore J. Cachey, Jr., Le Isole Fortunate: appunti di storia letteraria italiana. 
Roma: “L’Erma” di Bretschneider, 1995. Pp. 283. 


A central chapter in the literary histories of Spain and Portugal, “travel literature” has remained 
until recently the cinderella of Italian literary studies. The reasons for this situation are no 
doubt complex, although largely attributable to the ideal “disinteressata e disincarnata 
letterarieta” defined by Giorgio Raimondo Cardona (“I viaggie le scoperte,” in Letteratura 
italiana, diretta da A. Asor Rosa. Turin: Einaudi, 1986, v, 687) that seems to have always 
characterized Italian literature. No wonder then if “la letteratura italiana non inquadra volentieri 
nel suo canone i viaggi di cui pure é ricca” (/bid.) and if the reversal of this trend in recent 
years has seen on the front lines linguists, historians of the language and Romance philologists: 
researchers for whom an engagement with ethnographical data and less formalized modes 
of communication represent inalienable tools of the trade, and who don’t disdain to link 
philology and semiology (including the essayist semiology of great moral and political tension 
a la Todorov. 

The preamble serves to clarify at the outset the conceptual problematic and the novelty 
of Cachey’s study. A work that can be read as a contribution to the history of the Fortunate- 
Canary Islands, that is, of a fundamental chapter in the history of the literature of travel. 
But with the specification that this research has the orientation of Stoffgeschichte in which 
the Fortunate Islands “come topos, rilevante, seppure marginale, del discorso storico letterario 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 707 


italiano durante il periodo rinascimentale” become an instrument for measuring the way 
in which the Italian literary tradition from Dante to Tasso came to terms with the new Atlantic 
other. 

The thematic and diachronic articulation of the work distributes the history of the topos 
in four essential episodes, the first of which, “Dante e le Isole Fortunate,” serves as a kind 
of historical and methodological premise. The hypothesis formulated in that there is a figural 
relationship (mediated by Rabano Mauro’s De universo) between Virgil’s Mt. Atlas and 
the mountain of the Earthly Paradise, and the Atlas and the contiguous Fortunate Islands 
(evoked by an implicit citation of Isidore de Seville at Purg. xxx, 139-144), "vengono ... 
cancellate dalla geografia esplicita della Commedia, solo per riapparire fra le righe del poema” 
(54). Dante seeks to mark in this way “la natura pil vera della sua geografia cristiana rispetto 
a quella classica” (59). Thus the parallels and antitheses between Ulysses’ “folle volo” and 
the ”viaggio mistico del poeta cristiano” are clarified. The voyage beyond the Pillars of 
Hercules can appear in a positive light as long as its contemporary Christian significance 
is appreciated: “FE Dante come poeta che incarna lo scopritore rinascimentale. De Sanctis 
aveva sbagliato solo nel vedere in Ulisse un precursore di Colombo, quando inverita € Dante- 
poeta a prefigurare sia il viaggio di scoperta rinascimentale che l’ideologia provvidenziale 
diun Colombo, anche lui ... incerca del Paradiso Terrestre, armato quindi di una concezione 
ideologica e di un’auto-autorizzazione analoga a quella dantesca (autorizzazione che sara 
ancora presa per buona e celebrata dal Tasso)” (80). Punctual exegesis and the study of sources 
thus introduces the central theme of the book, emblematically highlighting the relationship 
between ideological geography and real geography, between literature and history, with 
anticipations that look forward to the concluding chapter dedicated to Tasso. 

The “sguardo antropologico,” that is, the European image of the other’s language, 
customs, and faith is the subtitle of the second chapter, a contrastive analysis dedicated to 
the description of the Fortunate Islands in Petrarch (De vita solitaria, 0, 12) and in Boccaccio 
(De Canaria et de insulis reliquis noviter repertis). The respective response of Petrarch and 
Boccaccio to the encounter with the inhabitants of the Canaries (rediscovered around 1336) 
express divergent views that will continue to characterize Europe’s anthropological gaze 
during the period of the discovery, exploration and conquest of America. Petrarch expresses 
the anti-primitivist view according to which the hunter and shepherd are usually negative 
connoted as chronologically prior to civilization, a traditional view which in this case is related 
to Pope Clement vii’s involvement in the question of European sovereignty in the archipelago. 
Boccaccio’s text, incontrast, offers a positive and optimistic response, expressive of a hybrid 
humanist and mercantile culture for which the freedom and the dignity of the other represent 
both “il correlato dell’affermazione della liberta di commercio” (117) and a polemical rhetorical 
theme useful for underlining by antiphrasis the corruption of European customs. 

Following their rediscovery, the Fortunate-Canary Islands, come to represent a kind 
of concetto limite, di transizione fra il vecchio e il Nuovo Mondo” (124-125). In fact, the 
archipelago will become a fundamental recurrent theme within the context of the Renaissance 
historiography of discovery and conquest which the author thoroughly analyses in Chapter 
III, exploring a well-founded hypothesis that a stylistic-literary analysis of the Fortunate 
Islands topos permits one to appreciate fully the exquisitely semiotic aspect of that historiography 
as representation. Generally, a process of demythification of the Fortunate islands dominates 
the historiography of discovery beginning with the humanist Peter Martyr (Decades de Orbe 
Novo), consistent with the negative reaction of Petrarch, and in conjunction with the progressive 


708 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


marginalization of the archipelago within the context of Renaissance discoveries. A significant 
exception is represented by chapter XX of Bartolomé de Las Casas’ Historia general y natural 
de las Indias for whom the myth of the Fortunate islands is revitalized “in rapporto ad un 
preciso programma di redenzione culturale e spirituale degli Indiani d’America” (161). 
Moreover, a partial remythification of the islands is represented by the theme of the marvelous 
tree of Hierro” which is examined by the author in a series of textual and graphic manifestations 
that spans the tradition, from Columbus and Peter Martyr to Pigafetta, Oviedo, Las Casas, 
Benzoni, and Théodore De Bry, whose treatment of the theme in an important engraving 
presents the allegory of a “paradiso violato, tradito e sovvertito dagli invasori spagnoli” 
(179), in clear allusion to the ongoing conquest of America. Indeed, the treatment of the 
Canary Islanders throughout the tradition discussed by Cachey anticipates and parallels that 
of the natives of the New World: the same topoi, the same ambiguities, the same primitivism 
of the French and English historiograhers who in their positive evaluation of the other express 
their desire for commercial freedom in the colonies and a polemical stance against Spanish 
imperialism. 

The volume concludes with a chapter entirely dedicated to Tasso: a jewel of philological 
analysis and criticism at several interpretive levels, whose significance goes beyond the limits 
of an extremely original contribution to Tasso studies in the name of that more general 
perspective that provides the book’s subtitle. The focus of the chapter is on the revision of 
Canto XV of the Liberata: Carlo and Ubaldo traveled to the New World in an earlier version 
of the canto, and this American itinerary is suppressed in favor of the journey to the Fortunate 
Islands of the vulgata. Eventually, both the voyage to the Canaries and the celebration of 
Columbus and the explorers are suppressed in the Conquistata “quando ormai pare quasi 
del tutto spento nel Tasso il proposito di trattare il tema eroico delle navigazioni ed esplorazioni 
del Nuovo Mondo” (224). The author demonstrates persuasively the extent to which the 
earlier version of the canto was inspired and informed by ramusio’s Navigazioni (especially 
by the accounts of Pigafetta and Massimiliano Transilvano) and Fracastoro’s Syphylis. Thus, 
against the received notion of a Tasso who was “sostanzialmente disinteressato o addirittura 
ignorante per quanto riguarda la storia del Nuovo Mondo” (226), the author documents “un 
legame importante di continuita e ispirazione fra il giovane Tasso e gli americanisti veneti 
della generazione precedente” (228). 

In addition, important sections of the chapter which cannot be detailed here establish 
an unedited connection between Tasso’s celebration of Columbus and the contemporary 
controversy surrounding the Genoese’s priority in the discovery, and explore the history 
of the revision of Canto XV in relation to general aesthetic and ideological dilemmas faced 
by Tasso and Italian literary culture generally. For Cachey, the suppression of the voyage 
to the Canaries and the location of Armida’s castle in Lebanon in the Conquistata are explained 
by Tasso’s “adeguamento ossessivo al precetto dell’unita di luogo (oltre che di tempo e di 
azione)” (280) and reflects also the failure of a literature and a society which were deaf to 
the call of the voyage of exploration as a bourgeois and mercantile genre, open to the stimuli 
of romance and the marvelous. 

It was perhaps destined that a book of this kind would be written by an American Italianist 
for whom the problematic related to the “anthropological gaze” is no less than central, and 
naturally leads to a reflection on the significance of the European tradition that the transoceanic 
perspective undoubtedly fosters. It was certainly destined that a book of this kind would 
be written by an italianist formed by the philological and stylistic magistero of Fredi Chiappelli, 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 709 


an “italianista d’ America,” who loved profoundly both Old and New Worlds (see, for example, 
First Images of America, and the ongoing series of the Repertorium Columbianum). Cachey’s 
book, informed by a similar appreciation for the long tradition in which the old and the new 
have encountered one another and bonded together, is one of the best applications of the 
spirit and intentions of that school. 


Luciano Formisano, Universita degli Studi, Bologna 


Napoli e il Regno dei grandi viaggiatori, a cura di Franco Paloscia. Roma: Edizioni 
Abete, 1994. Pp. 191. 


Questo volume, |’ultimo della collana dell’ “Italia dei grandi viaggiatori”, per i tipi dell’editore 
Abete, comprende otto saggi sul viaggio a Napoli considerato sotto vari aspetti: quello 
geografico e spaziale (della metropoli convulsa e della periferica serenita dei piccoli centri 
del Mediterraneo), quello storico-culturale (il Regno di Napoli all’epoca degli Angioini, 
degli Aragonesi e dei Borboni) e quello interiore (la ricerca di se stessi, intrapresa dai 
viaggiatori-narratori). 

Oltre al settore dell’odeporica, il carattere interdisciplinare di Napoli e il Regno dei 
grandi viaggiatori consente di inserirlo nella categoria delle indagini su complessi periodi 
storici: lo si pud leggere, per esempio, nella cornice concettuale di opere quali Civilia e 
imperi del Mediterraneo nell’eta di Filippo II di Fernand Braudel (Torino: Einaudi, 1953). 

In una pregevole veste tipografica, il volume, corredato di un ricco apparato iconografico, 
esula dagli angusti limiti di un normale libro di viaggio. L’intendimento del progetto é stato 
quello di lumeggiare le relazioni e i mutui influssi fra le civilta italiane e quelle straniere 
che si sono incontrate nell’ambito del Regno di Napoli. Tale obiettivo, che intendeva conciliare 
le ragioni della ricerca scientifica con quelle della pit ampia divulgazione, é stato brillantemente 
conseguito dai singoli studiosi delle varie aree, grazie alla consultazione esaustiva di archivi, 
biblioteche e musei. 

Gli otto saggi del volume, introdotto da Atanasio Mozzillo, sono firmati da Emanuele 
Kanceff (“Il miraggio del ‘Regno’. Francesi a Napoli dal Medio Evo al Settecento”, pp. 
17-38), Luigi Monga (“Viaggiatori di lingua inglese a Napoli”, pp. 39-64), Enzo Giorgio 
Fazio (“Lontano, lontano nel Sud ... Tedeschi a Napoli”, pp. 65-84), Teodoro Scamardi 
(“Viaggio nelle estreme province del Regno. L’immagine della Puglia e della Calabria in 
Germania”, pp. 85-95), Piero Cazzola (“Viaggiatori dell’est europeo”, pp. 121-142), Franco 
Meregalli (“I viaggiatoriispanici”, pp. 121-141), Madeleine Pinault Sorensen (“Napoli degli 
artisti”, pp. 143-154), Francis Claudon (“Alla scoperta del Sud e della musica”, pp. 155-176). 
Conclude il volume una bibliografia generale curata da Roberta Rampone. 

Questi studi, nell’intento di verificare la forza d’attrazione esercitata dalle terre del 
Sud sull’uomo del passato, costituiscono, come afferma Mozzillo nell’introduzione, “un 
inventario di stupori e incantamenti, accensioni ed epifanie struggenti” (p. 9). Le alterne 
e diversificate fortune che il reame napoletano ha riscosso nel corso dei secoli hanno offerto 
ai Viaggiatori descrizioni contrastanti: dalla Napoli icastica, ubertosa e suggestiva, quella 
di cui “si dice che la bellezza sia morta e l’armonia perduta” (p. 12) si passa allo scenario 
di un Mezzogiorno che si dispiega “non tanto alla maniera di un affresco unitario nella sua 
esposizione narrativa, bensi in quella assai pil criptica di un mosaico, o meglio di un 
arcipelago” (p. 10). Il viaggiatore, che nel suo itinerario lasciava alle spalle l’armonia del 


710 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


golfo dominato dal Vesuvio, si imbatteva in terre avvolte e trasfigurate dal mito della loro 
“diversita”. Per questo si diceva “le Puglie”, “le Calabrie” e “gli Abruzzi”, poiché nella 
pluralita del nome risiedeva “il segno di una intuizione popolare, il risultato di una lunga 
esperienza vissuta e sofferta negli spazi che le difficolta o addirittura l’impossibilita delle 
comunicazioni rendevano immensamente pill ampi di quel che fossero e sono nella realta” 
(p. 10). 

Solo molto pit tardi, nel Settecento, come annota Teodoro Scamardi, il Sud entra nel 
circuito culturale del Grand Tour, in virtt della presenza tedesca e attraverso i resoconti 
dei viaggi di Johann Hermann von Riedesel. Dall’ osservazione del paesaggio alla polemica 
sociologica, la visione di questo territorio é contraddittoria. Saranno A. W. Schultz e Ferdinand 
Gregorovius, lo “scopritore del barocco leccese”, < riportare nella sua giusta dimensione 
la realta di questa terra dimenticata. 

E’ impossibile passare in rassegna la vasta letteratura dei viaggiatori tedeschi che 
forniscono dati cospicui sulla morfologia urbana della citta del Vesuvio. Agli inizi del Seicento 
la visione della capitale partenopea offre un cliché fisso che contiene tutti i punti salienti 
della produzione posteriore. 

Dopo l’eruzione del 1631, “Napoli rafforza—afferma Enzo Giorgio Fazio—la sua attrazione 
sui viaggiatori del Grand Tour arricchendosi di un nuovo fopos che imprimera un’ intensita 
del tutto diversa all’immaginario della citta con contributi nuovi rispetto alla centralita della 
metropoli, luogo privilegiato dell’interazione culturale, fucina di fermenti, idee, lotte e 
rivoluzioni” (p. 70). 

Emanuel Kanceff fa riferimento alla presenza nella capitale partenopea degli Angioini, 
la “prima francesizzazione del regno che ha lasciato tracce indelebili nella storia” (p. 17). 
Le opere dei cronisti francesi, Antoine de la Sale, Gilles le Bouvier, Commynes, Guillaume 
de Villeneuve, Jean d’Auton? e Blaise de Monluc, sono illuminanti sulla vita della corte 
angioina. 

Nelle testimonianze degli umanisti e dei poeti francofoni del Cinquecento e del Seicento, 
spesso in missioni ufficiali, i quali esplorano il sacro suolo della classicita, non mancano 
motivazioni tanto erudite quanto turistiche. 

I] saggio di Luigi Monga vuole essere una sollecitazione per una riflessione pit complessiva 
sui viaggiatori di lingua inglese a Napoli. Vi si pud cogliere il connotato dei viaggi che 
configurera, alla fine del Seicento, il Grand Tour. I viaggiatori si collocano in un movimento 
in fieri: vengono infatti a coprire un capitolo di una unitaria avventura futura. Recuperando 
idealmente da precedenti lavori, motivi storici, la ricerca di Monga offre un osservatorio 
di strumentazioni europee, soprattutto inglesi, individua e suggerisce tipologie e archetipi 
sull’odeporica. L’autore avverte gli elementi di una totalizzazione del sapere del quale i 
viaggiatori di oltremanica vanno alla ricerca; per essi il viaggio non é il reperimento di un 
significato univoco, di una progettualita, di una meta a priori, bensi della conoscenza di 
un’unita originaria della bellezza, dei colori, delle linee, dei contrasti e degli eccessi. Ne 
deriva la modalita di un itinerarium nel continuum, nello spostamento del vissuto in una 
luce di nordica lontananza. 

I] viaggiatore pit illuminato del Cinquecento resta sempre Thomas Hoby, il quale considera 
la visita a Napoli “una tappa essenziale del suo viaggio d’istruzione e di ricerca archeologica” 
(p. 42). Una pit completa panoramica di quanto possiede la citta la offre il viaggiatore del 
secolo dei Lumi, il quale—riferisce Monga—é attento a “verificare le differenze che nota 
nei paesi visitati, ad analizzare |’alterita dell’autoctono, a darne spiegazioni storiche e 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 711 


scientifiche” (p. 51). I temi pid diffusi nelle opere del Settecento scientifico, sembrano essere 
gli scavi di Ercolano e Pompei, che costituiscono una sorta di epitome del viaggio. 

Il viaggio degli spagnoli nel Regno di Napoli é favorito dalle vicende storiche. Nel 
caso specifico, sia l’aristocrazia aragonese sia quella borbonica sono impegnate nella conoscenza 
dei costumi, della vita sociale e della lingua, al fine di acquisire oculate e moderne cognizioni 
di amministratori dei propri patrimoni. 

Franco Meregalli fornisce accurate notizie, da Crist6bal Suarez de Figueroa a Vicente 
Blasco Ibdfiez: “stranieri in casa loro”, gli spagnoli hanno lasciato una copiosa letteratura 
che va dalla descrizione di una visione ideale della citta al racconto pittoresco e aneddotico. 
Opere quali De Madrid a Napoles di Pedro de Alarcon, Viaje a Italia di Benito Pérez Galdos 
e En el pais del arte di Vicente Blasco Ibdfiez rispecchiano i legami di due culture vincolate 
dalla storia. 

Con nutrita ed erudita sintesi sui viaggiatori notabili dell’est europeo a Napoli, Piero 
Cazzola illustra il grande amore dei popoli nordici per il sud dell’Italia. Sin dal Cinquecento, 
diplomatici, cortigiani e artisti si recano a Napoli alla ricerca non solo di esperienze nuove, 
ma anche attratti da opere d’arte e archeologiche. Di grande interesse sono i capitoli dedicati 
ai pittori (Kiprenskij, Séedrin, Cernecov), ai musicisti (Michail Glinka, il padre dell’ opera 
nazionale russa), ai poeti (Pétr A. Vjazemskij, Vasilij A. Zukovskij, e infine alle figure come 
Tolstoj, Gogol’, Dostojevskij, Gorkj, PuSkin e Turgenev), nelle cui opere la terra partenopea 
ha lasciato un’impronta indelebile. 

A parte Roma, come annota Madeleine Pinault Sorensen, nessun’altra citta italiana 
pud vantare una memoria visiva simile a quella di Napoli. Gia nel Seicento artisti francesi, 
tedeschi, olandesie fiamminghi, questi ultimi gia inseriti nel Grand Tour, privilegiando l’uso 
della gouache, rappresentano il paesaggio, la luce, |’architettura e l’aspetto realista del popolo. 
Dopo di loro, una pleiade di artisti danesi, russi e americani precede quegli appassionati 
del “gusto delle rovine” che emerge a partire dagli scavi di Pompei ed Ercolano. Cosi come 
Corot aveva fatto con Capri, Turner rendera immortale il paesaggio dominato dal Vesuvio. 

Una visione dello stato della musica nella Napoli, dall’ Ottocento in poi, ci offre Francis 
Claudon, soffermandosi sull’aneddotica del musicologo Charles Burney, autore del fondamentale 
The Present State of Music in France and Italy. Burney segnala “la naturale predisposizione 
alla musica dei napoletani” e al tempo stesso illustra le opere di Piccinni, Cotumacci e Jomelli, 
la cui musica gli sembra “eccessivamente elaborata, sempre magistrale” (p. 164). Burney 
“riparte impressionato dall’opera e dallo stile colto dei compositori” (p. 165). Infine, con 
raffinata sensibiliti, Claudon cerca in Mozart, Liszt, Mendelsohn e Berlioz il “sottile rapporto 
con le bellezze pagane e naturali del Mezzogiorno italiano” (p. 175). 


Annunziata O. Campa, Universita degli Studi, Pisa 


Bartolomeo Fontana, Itinerari, ed. Robert Melzi. Geneve: Slatkine, 1995. Pp. 
xciv-94 (“Dimensioni del Viaggio”, n° 8). 


This volume presents a description, analysis, and diplomatic transcription of five travel 
narratives contained in MS. It. 226 of the Van Pelt-Dietrich Library of the University of 
Pennsylvania by the 16th-century Venetian traveler Bartolomeo Fontana. Between 1539 and 
1541 Fontana was a pilgrim to Santiago de Compostela. Between 15 March and 3 April 
1541 he made a trip from Venice to Milan and back again. Between 5 March and 12 April 


712 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


1544 he traveled from Venice to Rome and returned to venice, following an eight-month 
stay in Loreto. Shorter trips to Verona and Conegliano during 1544 and 1545 are also briefly 
described. The three journeys to Santiago, Milan, and Rome were fused in the /tinerario 
overo Viaggio da Venetia a Roma, printed in Venice by Bartolomeo Bindoni in 1550 and 
recently edited by Antonietta Fucelli (L’itinerario di Bartolomeo Fontana. Perugia: Universita 
degli Studi, 1987). Melzi’s publication of the University of Pennsylvania manuscript makes 
available for study significant divergences between the adventurous manuscript account of 
Fontana’s travels and the printed book intended as a guide for pilgrims. The most important 
of these are illustrated by Melzi in his introductory treatment of the manuscript and in the 
notes to his edition. 

The literary interest, as travel narrative, of Fontana’s manuscript is greater than that 
of the printed text. Melzi’s study details how personal experiences, observations, and adventures 
are omitted from the printed version of Fontana’s travels. These include, for example, the 
author’s charming comparison of the challenge of a perilous pass (“el mal pertuso”) on the 
road to Santiago to the “prova ... che fece Orfeo che ando et torno dal inferno” (17), or 
the touching episode of the loss of his traveling companion on the same road: “che io amai 
il frate sopra ogni altro compagno che io avevo ancora avuto. ... Mi adolorai et deliberai 
et permanente disposi voler da qui [in] avanti andarmene tutto soletto” (20-21). The 
transformation of Fontana’s travel narrative into a printed guide also involved the addition 
to the /tinerario of significant passages lacking from the manuscript account. These include 
a long discussion treating the Latin works of Petrarch in connection with the Sorgue, and 
geographical citation on Gallia taken from Battista Mantovano. The account of the road Fontana 
actually traveled to Santiago is supplemented (and more or less supplanted) by a long digression 
on the variety of routes used by pilgrims traveling to the shrine (19). Melzi’s edition of the 
manuscript documents a fascinating process of “translation” from manuscript to print which 
entailed the suppression of the first-person traveler’s perspective on the journey through 
space and time in favor of the compilatory and static literary characteristics of a pilgrim’s 
guide. 

Indeed, the episode represents a suggestive Renaissance counterpoint to the early 
nineteenth-century emergence of the modern travel-guide which distinguished itself within 
the genre system of travel writing, in response to the development of increasingly subjective 
tendencies in that period’s sentimental travel narratives. But whereas the privileging of a 
subjective perspective in travel accounts of that period created a need for the modern guidebook, 
the Italian Renaissance system of travel narratives preferred the exemplarity of the guide 
for pilgrims, and Fontana’s “personality” so to speak only survives in manuscript. In more 
general terms, the episode illustrated by Melzi provides valuable material for the consideration 
of the impact of printing on developments of the genre system of travel literature. In fact, 
Fontana’s position might be characterized as conservative with respect to contemporary 
developments in travel literature and in literary system during a chronological period which 
witnessed the editorial expansion of travel literature, especially in the form of exploration 
and discovery narrative. Outside of Italy meanwhile, the picaresque novel is emerging in 
Spain—a genre to which Fontana’s manuscript displays significant affinities. The publication 
of a pilgrim’s guide like the /tinerario was clearly not the cutting edge of such developments, 
but nevertheless offers a valuable perspective from which to consider them. Fontana’s travels 
might well have provided the stuff of an Italian picaresque. 

In this context, perhaps the most “progressive” and interesting of the travel narratives 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 713 


included here is the one describing Fontana’s journey “Da Venezia a Milano” (45-47), a 
trip with no particular religious significance attached to it and which includes a description 
of “la Rena” of Verona which “intisi che quello fu fatto per arte magica” (45), the chance 
encounter with a friend “medico et barbiere, il quale mi fece gran carezze,” the attack of 
a wolf who tried to enter a room where he was sleeping in Saviato, the visit to Bergamo, 
“ornato di botteghe et d’ogni artista,” and the visit to his relative Pietro in the house of the 
Trivulzi in Milan. This itinerary stands out for its refreshing lack of religious justifications 
and beyond its picaresque flavor, connects Fontana’s travel in Italy to the contemporary 
process of Italy’s establishment as a touristic site, documented, for example, by the appearance 
of texts like the first guide for travelers in Italy, Ortensio Lando’s Commentario de le piu 
notabili et mostruose cose d’Italia (Venice, 1550) and Leandro Alberti’s Descrittione di tutta 
Italia (Bologna, 1550). 

Those interested in the relationship between travel narrative and travel guide for the 
history of travel, in the Renaissance history of the effects of printing on the development 
of the genre system of travel literature in Italy, and in the Renaissance emergence of Italy 
as a focus for modern “touristic” travel will therefore find in Melzi’s valuable contribution 
important material for reflection and further research. 


Theodore J. Cachey, Jr., University of Notre Dame 


Voyage de Provence et d’Italie (Ms. fr. 5550-Bibl. Nat., Paris). Edition, 
introduction et notes de Luigi Monga. Genéve: Slatkine, 1994. Pp. 195. 
(“Biblioteca del Viaggio in Italia”, Testi n° 49). 


Luigi Monga’s work on Renaissance travel journals has made him an expert on forgotten 
practical matters of the period, such as travel arrangements, and he can also place himself 
within the intricate historical context of numerous particular moments. Of such moments, 
none is more familiar to him than the years 1588-89, which saw the death of Catherine des 
Médicis, the assassination of Henrilll, and the lavish Florentine celebrations for the wedding 
of Christine de Lorraine to Grandduke Ferdinand of Tuscany. His edition of the Discours 
viatiques de Paris a Rome et de Rome a Naples et Sicile (Genéve: Slatkine, 1983) dealt with 
the same time and several of the same places, and he is also intimately acquainted with other 
contemporary accounts, most notably Les Voyages du seigneur de Villamont (Paris: C. de 
Montr’Oeil et J. Richer, 1600). His qualifications for editing the present account of a young 
Frenchman’s Italian travels in 1588-89 are thus extraordinary—or, indeed, given the scarcity 
of such experience, unique. 

The present diarist is unusually coy, withholding not only his name but also his position 
in society and the purpose of his trips, and disdaining even to let us know whether he has 
any traveling companions. Monga is able, however, to infer that we are dealing with a healthy 
young man of the French aristocracy or high bourgeoisie, unusually dévot in religious practices, 
very likely belonging to circles friendly to the Guise party. (He catches a ride with a Spanish 
royal fleet bound for Italy and is given preferential treatment in Rome despite papal quarrels 
with the French court.) Like the author of the Discours viatiques, he is getting away from 
extreme political unrest at home, although there is no allusion to such a motivation. If he 
had any political mission in Rome, we hear nothing of it. 

The account abounds in objective information that we (and the diarist) could find in 


714 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


Leandro Alberti’s Descrittione di tutta Italia (1st ed., 1550), and there is much tedious copying 
of inscriptions, both ancient and modern. Even Montaigne gave a lot of space to such material, 
and one must remember that many journals were meant to prod recollection when reread 
years later. We present-day readers are, of course, highly interested in the author’s personal 
experiences and in his impressions, but potentially interesting episodes are sometimes reported 
with maddening brevity, as when an encounter with bandits near Ravenna gets only four 
lines (94). A tempest off the coast of Provence that destroyed several ships of the Spanish 
fleet, and in which the author nearly lost his life, is recounted, however, with a number 
of realistic details, such as the chilling notation that the captain had jettisoned the water barrels 
of his Turkish slaves to lighten the load (53). 

The author was keenly interested in details of ceremonial, whether religious or civic 
or, as in the case of the Venetian procession for Easter, religious and civic at the same time. 
He observes with fascination the entry of Cardinal Mendoza into Rome and the ceremony 
for receiving the symbolic red hat from the pope (76-77), and he describes the form of civic 
processions in Genoa (without, perhaps, having seen one). The most detailed account of 
the whole journal is, however, given of the production of Girolamo Bargagli’s comedy La 
Pellegrina for the wedding celebrations of Christine de Lorraine (119-120). The author managed 
to attend two performances of the play and was dazzled by the splendor of the costumes 
and stage settings, especially those for the intermezzi. If these things were not already unusually 
well documented, his descriptions (112-116) would be invaluable. Even so, they will be 
useful as a check for other accounts. 

The author’s assessment of individual Italian cities, with their economies and political 
systems, is often interesting, even if partly derivative. When he says that Bolognese gentlemen 
are richer and nobler than Florentine ones, because their nobility and wealth come from 
race and from landholdings, while Florentines are descended from merchants (96), he has 
clearly been talking to a local booster, but the statement also tells something about himself 
and constitutes, in my opinion, sufficient evidence that he is a member of the landed aristocracy 
rather than of the upper bourgeoisie. There follows quite a long description of the government 
of Bologna, which was, of course, subject to the papal legate. The author has not had a 
twentieth-century course in Renaissance history and does not seem to know either that Florence 
had a far more illustrious political history than Bologna (now muted by the granddukes, 
to be sure) or even that it had been a cradle for the revival of arts and letters. (Montaigne 
was similarly unaware of the special importance of Florence.) The young man is, on the 
other hand, tremendously impressed by Venice, first by the physical majesty of the city and 
its monuments, and then by the efficiency of its unique political system. Far from looking 
down on Venetian gentlemen for their lack of landed estates or their connection with commerce, 
he sees them as models of frugality and civic spirit, of what we should call republican virtues. 
The celebrated “myth of Venice” (which did not lack some firm foundations, despite modern 
debunkers) was clearly alive and seductive in 1589. Coming from a country whose political 
structure had virtually broken down in recent years, the young Frenchman must also have 
been in a mood to appreciate stability. 

The text is given an elaborate and extremely helpful editorial apparatus. Its introduction 
includes a precious general section “Voyage et récit de voyage 4 la Renaissance” (8-25, 
prepared in an earlier form for a volume of Montaigne Studies) that draws on the editor’s 
vast acquaintance with travel accounts of the period. There are also (1) a short section of 
speculation on the background and personality of our rather colorless diarist, and (2) an 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 715 


essay on “Intersections,” which examines common experiences of this young man and the 
other contemporary travelers in the peninsula, i.e. the author of the Discours viatiques, and 
Villamont. Finally, there is a description of the manuscript with an explanation of the editor’s 
way of dealing with it. 

As is common for Luigi Monga’s work, both the notes to the introduction and those 
to the text are full and extremely informative, often reproducing long passages from relevant 
works of scholarship or from other sixteenth-century sources. In sum, if the journal itself 
is not intrinsically one of the most interesting we have seen in the “Biblioteca del Viaggio 
in Italia” series, it has been given a model edition from which Renaissance scholars can 
extract a great amount of information. 


Bonner Mitchell, University of Missouri, Columbia 


Nathan Chytraeus. Voyages en Europe (Hodoeporica): Poémes latins de la 
Renaissance édités, traduits et annotés par Michel Bastiaensen; préface de Rudolf 
De Smet. Bruxelles: Peeters, 1994. Pp. 281 (Université Libre de Bruxelles: Institut 
Interuniversitaire pour l’étude de la Renaissance et de 1’Humanisme: 
Translationes, n° 2). 


Les impressions poétiques de la peregrinatio academica européenne du poéte-voyageur que 
fut Nathan Chytraeus, avant-coureur de tant de jeunes étudiants que l’on rencontre toujours, 
sac au dos, sur les trains et dans les villes d’Europe durant leurs vacances universitaires 
pu leur Junior Year Abroad, ont enfin trouvé une édition critique et une traduction moderne. 
De l’Allemagne au Pays-Bas, de Paris 4 Londres et Oxford, de Paris 4 Augsbourg, enfin 
en Italie (ou il effectue les parcours traditionnels qui seront ceux du Grand Tour), en Suisse 
et enfin 4 Strasbourg, les poémes latins qui racontent les voyages de Chytraeus représentent 
un véritable Baedeker poétique de l’Europe occidentale du xvI° siécle. 

Le récit de voyage en poésie (latine ou vernaculaire) jouit déja, 4 la Renaissance, d’une 
longue tradition. Assez proche de la laudatio urbium médiévale, |’hodoeporicon en latin 
s’inscrit directement dans l’imitation d’Horace (Sat. 1, 5), d’Ovide (Trist. 1, 10) et de Rutilius 
Namatianus (De reditu suo). Pétrarque dédie une epystola metrica (1, 15) 4 son voyage de 
Naples en 1343. Au XVI° siécle, en France, ce genre littéraire semble retrouver un nouvel 
essor en francais ou en latin (Jean Marot, Jean Molinet, Jacques Sirmond) alors qu’en Allemagne 
il partage le succés de la littérature néo-latine (Nicolas et Jérémie Reusner, Peter Lindebergius, 
George Deidrich) et en Italie il fleurit dans les capitoli italiens du “Viaggio di Colonia” 
d’Antonio Abbondanti. 

Congcus dans la tradition de la littérature hodéporique néo-latine de la Renaissance, 
les Hodoeporica de Chytraeus (car il s’agit bien de plusieurs itinera) offrent au lecteur du 
XX° siécle une vue extrémement riche et précise de la société contemporaine. Humaniste, 
pédagogue, poéte et prosateur, Nathan Chytraeus (1543-1598) était fils du pasteur luthérien 
Matthaeus Kochhafe (et c’est son nom de famille, Kochhafe, “marmite”, qu’il ennoblira, 
en le grécisant, 4 partir de son équivalent yizpa). Traducteur en latin et en allemand du 
Galateo (ainsi que de plusieurs autres piéces, de la littérature espagnole aussi bien que 
francaise), lexicographe et musicologue, Chytraeus commence ses voyages 4 22 ans; vingt-cinq 
ans plus tard, vers la fin de sa vie, il sera repris par le démon du voyage et se rendra 4 Dantzig 
(“Iter Dantiscanum”) peu avant sa mort. 


716 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


Le voyage en Italie de Chytraeus représente d’emblée la découverte d’un monde 
extraordinaire. Venise est la premiére grande ville qu’il trouve sur son parcours: “orbis magni 
emporium, ditissima censu”, “altera Roma”, centre intellectuel rendu fameux par la présence 
de Navagero, Bembo, Ermolao Barbaro, et de tant de savants qu’il vénére. Des demeures 
splendides (“Dalmatico sic atria marmore fulgent”), de superbes églises (“templa . . . 
splendida”), un Arsénal déja fameux dans le monde entier, des cortéges de sénateurs et des 
cérémonies de goit oriental, bref, “hic circum gentes cunctis e partibus orbis”. 

Cette stupeur accompagne Cytraeus au long de son iter italicum, 4 Bologne (“inclita 
rectorum studiorumque mater et altrix”), Florence (“admiror . . . subtilesque manus et docte 
Palladis artes”), Pise (“clara prioribus annis / Floruit, et victrix alias frenare solebat”), Sienne 
(“virtutum eximiam doctrinarumque magistram”), Rome, enfin, “dea terrarum, magno zmula 
celo,/... titulis eterna olim, soloque tremenda / nomine”. La dichotomie entre le passé 
et le présent n’est jamais absente dans les vers de Chytraeus: sa Rome, “nunc sine honore”, 
n’est pas sans rappeler “le vieil honneur poudreux” que Joachim du Bellay venait juste de 
chanter dans ses Antiquitez de Rome, et Pise “perpessa gemit”. 

Chytraeus montre dans ces hodoeporica un sentiment de la nature aux souvenances, 
dirait-on, romantiques: le passage sur la traversée du Gotthard, par exemple, un spectacle 
ou la furie des éléments se déchaine sur le voyageur avec violence, est particuliérement frappant: 
“Cauri furentes / Bella gerunt, alteque nives in montibus altis / Extructe terramque gravant 
atque horrida saxa / Ipse fremens sonitu, caput inter nubila condit, / Phoebeosque procul 
scopulis intercipit ignes”. Mais c’est surtout l’Italie contemporaine 4 marquer de sa présence 
ce qui est un voyage véritable et réaliste: parmi les aspects humains que Chytraeus souligne, 
il n’oublie pas |’industrie de la soie 4 Florence (“serica dum tractant molli subtegmina filo”) 
et celle du verre a Muran (“fulgente camino / Vasa ubi cum vitreis fiunt cristallina gemmis”). 
Réalisme du vécu, donc, qui nous plonge dans des détails bien précis sur la nourriture, les 
chambres des auberges et les routes défaites, et qui nous offre, dans la tradition horacienne, 
des anecdotes saugrenues ou brillent beuveries, querelles, méme une chute de |’auteur et 
de son cheval dans les eaux d’une riviére prés de Lorette. 

Bref, c’est une lecture passionnante que celle de ces Hodoeporica que la traduction 
en francais et les notes érudites de Michel Bastiaensen nous illustrent avec amour et précision. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Lorenzo Gambara, De navigatione Christophori Columbi, a cura di Cristina 
Gagliardi; presentazione di Mario Geymonat. Roma: Bulzoni, 1993. p. 302. 


Pubblicato per la prima volta nel 1581, questo poema epico neolatino in quattro libri rappresenta 
un momento interessante nella storia della reazione del mondo culturale alla scoperta del 
Nuovo Mondo. Difatti, mentre il Siphilis di Fracastoro (che del viaggio di Colombo trattava 
in modo parentetico) sembra esprimere un hapax, i versi di Lorenzo Gambara sono seguiti, 
quattro anni dopo, da un altro poema neolatino sullo stesso argomento, il Columbeis in due 
libri del romano Giulio Cesare Stella (1564-1624), seguito a sua volta, nel 1589, dal Mondo 
nuovo di Giovanni Giorgini, il primo poema epico in Italia che trattasse in volgare dell’impresa 
di Colombo. La fortuna del Gambara, nonostante un’abbondante produzione poligrafica e 
alcune ristampe dello stesso De navigatione, resta tuttavia piuttosto scarsa. E’ difficile affermare 
se ciO sia una reazione negativa al suo ripensamento della funzione poetica in senso 





Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 717 


anticlassicista, in linea quindi con il rinnovamento morale post-tridentino, oppure se sia dovuto 
alla mancanza di entusiasmo (lirico e pratico) per un’impresa i cui risultati, a quasi cent’anni 
dalla scoperta, si stavano rivelando piuttosto banali. Non si potra, in ogni caso, prescindere 
da questo testo nello studio dell’influenza nella poesia del navigatore “qui littora primus 
/ ingentis tetigit Cube, novaque astra retexit, / et freta tot quondam nostris incognita nautis, 
/ nuper et inventas Cancri sub sidere terras” (1, 1-4). 

La bella edizione del De navigatione che ci offre Cristina Gagliardi ha, tra gli altri 
pregi, quello di dare al lettore moderno delle note storiche essenziali, tratte da documenti 
contemporanei all’autore. Altre note linguistiche invece, dovute a Rodolfo Funari (ma é 
un vero peccato che si sia limitato ai primi due libri del poema), ci documentano |’impatto 
dei modelli virgiliani (Eneide e Georgiche, soprattutto) nella formazione lessicale e poetica 
del Gambara. II “suo” Colombo, del resto, possiede tutta la pietas di Enea, e ne fanno fede 
le frequenti preghiere che costellano il nostro poema. Ma si tratta di un Colombo il cui “folle 
volo” é mosso anche da “virtute e canoscenza”, un eroe assetato di avventura, a cui non 
mania certo la suggestiva presenza dell’ Ulisse dantesco: “maris immensos invadere fluctus 
/ tentasset mea cymba, novo nec in equore vela / tendere” (1, 11-13). 

Ben venga, percid, nell’ambito degli studi odeporici, questa edizione di un testo 
dimenticato, ma non privo di valore letterario e documentario. Lasciamo agli specialisti di 
rivalutare |’opera poetica del Gambara, “vates non ultimus inter” (Iv, 539), a noi bastera 
lasciarci trascinare con lui nel dialogo immaginario ed affascinante tra il poeta, il navigatore 
e il Cardinal de Grenville (a cui il poema é dedicato): una mixtio di meraviglioso e didascalico 
che rende certamente pit. moderno questo De navigatione. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Giuseppe Baretti, Narrazione incompiuta di un viaggio in Inghilterra, Portogallo 
e Spagna, acura di M. Catucci. Roma: Biblioteca del Vascello, 1994. Pp. 225. 


“Supponghiamo un poco, signor Giuseppe Baretti, che vossignoria stampi un giorno queste 
filastrocche di queste sue lettere, cosa ne dira la gente?” Baretti si interroga, gia conoscendo 
la risposta, sull’accoglienza che riceveranno le sue lettere di viaggio nell’ovest europeo, 
riferendosi in particolare alle pagine sul Portogallo. Gli esiti persecutori della censura, che 
queste gli procurano, sono la ragione per la quale Marco Catucci presenta il volume che 
accoglie le ben note Lettere familiari a’ suoi tre Fratelli Filippo, Giovanni, e Amedeo dello 
scrittore torinese, con il titolo di Narrazione incompiuta di un viaggio. Infatti, dei previsti 
quattro tomi di lettere, testimonianza di un viaggio da Londra a Genova, passando per il 
Portogallo e la Spagna, tra l’agosto e il novembre del 1760, svolto in qualita di accompagnatore 
e mentore di un giovane gentiluomo inglese, Baretti riesce a farne pubblicare soltanto due, 
e con non poche difficolta. Osservatore acuto, prosatore brillante, cosmopolita piu di fatto 
che di idee, secondo un rilievo di René Wellek, l’autore dosa equamente lo spazio destinato 
ai diversi aspetti del viaggio: la descrizione dei trasferimenti, dei luoghi e del paesaggio, 
della vita culturale e sociale, gli aneddoti, i commenti. Le descrizioni e le considerazioni 
sui costumi lusitani, espresse con la liberta, la scioltezza e la soggettivita che la finzione 
epistolare consente, certamente pit adatta al prepotente “io” barettiano dei vincoli di genere 
dell’ ormai consolidata struttura della “relazione di viaggio”, suscitano le lamentele formali 
dell’ambasciatore di Portogallo presso il ministro plenipotenziario conte di Firmiana Milano. 


718 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


Di qui l’ostilita alla diffusione del primo volume, che pure aveva avuto l’imprimatur dei 
revisori, edito a Milano nel 1762, e alla pubblicazione del secondo, che tuttavia avviene 
a Venezia nel 1763. Percid la domanda che Baretti si pone (lettera XX XVIII, p. 167) circa 
l’accoglienza riservata alle lettere é retorica, ma con essa puo spiegare la bonta del suo punto 
di vista e lasciare supporre la possibilita di sospensione del racconto di viaggio. Benché la 
narrazione, di fatto, si interrompa a meta dell’itinerario, Catucci fa notare che “la conclusione 
forzata non pregiudica il piacere della lettura”. L’episodicita esemplare di ognuna rende 
le lettere singolarmente apprezzabili e concluse. La fortuna antologica che tale pregio ha 
procurato all’opera ha aggiunto ulteriori frammentazioni all’interruzione originaria, e a questo 
prosperare di scelte e florilegi la nuova edizione integrale vuole porre rimedio, mentre 
I’Introduzione é intesa a spiegare |’incompiutezza delle Lettere familiari. La storia delle vicende 
editoriali e della censura é accompagnata da riscontri nell’epistolario barettiano e in scritti 
coevi, fra cui una lettera del revisore Bersani al conte Firmian e un capitolo anonimo contro 
l’autore, e in documenti sottratti al silenzio degli Archivi di Stato di Milano, di Venezia 
e della Biblioteca Nazionale di Roma, di cui Catucci propone la riproduzione fotostatica 
nelle pagine del volume. Si evince un contesto ostile verso l’eccentrica personalita di Baretti, 
attento a non urtare il dispotico governo portoghese del marchese di Pombal, la cui intolleranza 
non favorisce le Lettere familiari che, considera Catucci, in unaltro momento non avrebbero 
suscitato simili reazioni censorie, come infatti non era accaduto nei decenni precedenti con 
le descrizioni di Gordon, Fielding e Casti, certamente non meno esplicite sulle miserande 
condizionisocialie la vessatoria amministrazione lusitana. All’interruzione forzata dell’ opera 
non c’é rimedio. Le carte preparate da Baretti per gli altri due tomi sono perse, come quasi 
tutti i manoscritti barettiani. Ma Catucci propone in appendice, come risarcimento, alcuni 
stralci dell’opera che puo dirsi il rifacimento e il completamento delle Lettere familiari: A 
Journey from London to Genoa, through England, Portugal, Spain, and France del 1770, 
che Baretti scrive in inglese e affida ai torchi londinesi. Questo secondo scritto relativo al 
viaggio del 1760 presenta variazioni di contenuto di segno opposto, che Catucci fa dipendere 
sia dal clima di maggiore liberta individuale e di stampa presente sul suolo inglese, sia da 
una pill prudente autocensura barettiana subentrata alla censura italiana subita negli anni 
precedenti. Le Lettere familiari sono un’ opera essenziale nell’esperienza di scrittura artistica 
di Baretti, e testo fondante non solo il Journey (per cui segnalo lo studio di Bartolo Anglani, 
“Baretti e il patto del viaggiatore illuminista” in Giuseppe Baretti: un piemontese in Europa, 
Alti del convegno di studi. Torino, 21-22 settembre 1990. Alessandria, Edizioni dell’Orso, 
1993, pp. 21-36), ma anche la Scelta di lettere familiari, soprattutto per la dimensione 
“familiare” della lettera, oltre che per le riprese testuali (si veda a questo proposito: F. Fido, 
“Baretti e la Scelta di lettere familiari, in Quaderni di Retorica e Poetica, 1 [1985], La lettera 
familiare, pp. 151-159). Questa edizione rende pit accessibile un’ opera dai rari esemplari 
dell’editio princeps, per le questioni sopra esposte, presente in molte scelte antologiche (fra 
cui quelle di Vincenti, Bonora, Fido, Maier), ma integralmente, in edizione moderna, solo 
nel volume, con commento e aggiunta di titoli riassuntivi del contenuto di ciascuna lettera, 
a cura di Luigi Piccioni del 1941. Catucci illustra il contesto culturale e politico in cuil’ opera 
compare e1’ostilita che suscitano la spregiudicatezza el’immediatezza discrittura dell’autore, 
qualita che rendono le lettere tuttora di piacevole lettura. L’edizione propone lo scritto barettiano 
senza note esplicative, e ne suggerisce una lettura senza pause, calandosi nella narrazione. 
I criteri di riproduzione del testo della princeps, spiegati nella Nota, accolgono interventi 
lievi, volti a modificare la grafia e la punteggiatura, secondo l’uso moderno, mentre mantengono 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 719 


invariata grafia e accentazione di parole straniere, secondo l’uso settecentesco 0 personale 
dell’autore, in accordo con la scelta editoriale, tesa a valorizzare la scrittura odeporica di 
Baretti, di cui il ventesimo secolo sembra preferire il ruolo di scrittore su quello di critico, 
al contrario maggiormente riconosciuto nel secolo precedente. 


Cristina Bracchi, Universita degli Studi, Milano 


Gasparo Angiolini, Lettere sopra l’Inghilterra e la Scozia, a cura di Michéle 
e Antonio Stauble. Modena: Mucchi, 1990. Pp. 275. 


E’ il 1790 e a Firenze escono anonimi, per conto dell’editore Pietro Allegrini, due volumi 
di Lettere sopra |’Inghilterra, Scozia e Olanda. Nelle intenzioni dell’autore non c’é né la 
volonta di scrivere un trattato, né il desiderio di “scrivere un viaggio”, ma 1’inclinazione 
a secondare, come annuncia al suo fittizio corrispondente, |’abitudine di viaggiatore teso 
a “riflettere e scrivere in ogni paese dove mi trovo sopra quello che mi occorre giorno per 
giorno osservare degli uomini e delle cose”; e prosegue: “potete supporre che in un paese 
come questo ho tutti i giorni molto da aggiungere al mio scartafaccio”. Cosi Angiolini presenta 
la sua opera, come si legge nella Lettera I, alle pp. 3-4 del volume a cura di Michéle e Antonio 
Stauble, prima edizione critica delle Lettere. Gli antecedenti editoriali sono pochi: dopo 
l’editio princeps, si ricordano solo un’edizione milanese del 1944, peraltro non completa, 
e l’inclusione di alcuni passi scelti nelle due antologie Viaggiatori del Settecento, a cura 
di L. Vincenti del 1950 e Letterati, memorialisti e viaggiatori del Settecento, a cura di E. 
Bonora del 1951, a cui pit volte rinvia, per i dati biografici e icommenti, il contributo critico 
introduttivo degli Stéuble. Qui i rilievi sulle insufficienze letterarie, sulla mancanza di un 
adeguato lavoro di lima e di prosa d’arte nelle Lettere spiegano |’esclusione di Angiolini 
da molte storie della letteratura italiana del Novecento non orientate alla prospettiva di “storia 
della civilta”, e al pid il suo inserimento in paragrafi 0 schemi dedicati ai libri di viaggio. 
Un’assenza a cui questa edizione sembra non concedere attenuanti, poiché dell’opera sono 
messi in evidenza il carattere inventaristico dei grandi temi dell’anglofilia settecentesca e 
la presenza, benché acerba, del pensiero liberale italiano. Dopo le ampie raccolte biografiche 
e antologiche di viaggiatori italiani del XVIII secolo, proprie degli Anni Cinquanta, attente 
sia alla riscoperta del valore culturale e spesso delle qualita letterarie delle opere di viaggio, 
sia a indirizzare gli studi storico-letterari anche verso scrittori non di professione, come nel 
caso di Angiolini, sia a sprovincializzare le esperienze di vita e di scrittura di molti intellettuali 
italiani vissuti nel secolo degli ideali cosmopoliti, si arriva, tra la fine degli anni ottanta e 
l’inizio dei novanta, lungo una linea di incremento progressivo di interesse per la scrittura 
odeporica, ormai canonizzata genere, con distinzioni e implicazioni con altri generi letterari, 
a edizioni critiche di opere scritte per l’ occasione di un viaggio, la cui accuratezza scientifica 
e illustrazione introduttiva rendono merito a testi troppo a lungo confinati nella riduttiva 
considerazione del “minore”. L’Introduzione alle Lettere di Angiolini si accosta ad una direzione 
di ricerca che privilegia il senso e il fine del viaggio e della scrittura che lo testimonia. In 
essa sono accertati i temi e i miti raccolti, creati e trasmessi dalle Lettere, ed € indagato 
il condizionamento psicologico e ambientale che ha suscitato l’impresa odeporica e quella 
di scrittura (sulle ragioni della crescente fortuna della letteratura di viaggio, e sulle attuali 
direzioni di ricerca é illuminante la Prefazione di G. Cusatelli al volume, di cui lo stesso 
é curatore, Viaggi e viaggiatori del Settecento in Emilia e in Romagna, vol. 1, Bologna, 
Il Mulino, 1986). La prospettiva é quella assai ampia e interdisciplinare della storia della 


720 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


mentalita. 

Gli Stéuble definiscono Angiolini figlio del suo tempo, e per sensibilita e per idee, 
e come tale soggetto alla non facile conciliazione di elementi pertinenti al razionalismo, al 
sensismo e alle primissime istanze romantiche, compresenti al volgere del secolo. In questa 
temperie culturale Angiolini é guidato dal pensiero illuministico-riformista e dalla lettura, 
come si evince dalle Lettere, delle Lettres écrites de Londres sur les Anglois et autres sujets 
di Voltaire, di Emile ou de l’Education di Rousseau, di An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes 
of the Wealth of Nations di Adam Smith. “L’idea dominante nel libro é che il progresso 
dell’industria e del commercio e la prosperita che ne deriva siano un presupposto indispensabile 
per migliorare le condizioni di vita degli uomini, per permettere una migliore organizzazione 
della vita pubblica e privata e quindi per promuovere il grande ideale settecentesco della 
pubblica felicita. I] grado di realizzazione della pubblica felicita diventa in Angiolini la misura 
del progresso di una civilta. Le Lettere denotano la soddisfazione del futuro diplomatico 
di Ferdinando III nel constatare che la fiducia nelle riforme e non nell’ utopia, |’arte del possibile 
€, soprattutto, il pragmatismo conducono all’attuazione di quell’ideale. L’Inghilterra é il 
regno del pragmatismo, a cui Angiolini sembra naturalmente inclinare per una sorta di “affinita 
elettiva”. I temi ricorrenti nelle venti lettere sull’Inghilterra e la Scozia (quelle sull’Olanda 
in realta non sono mai state scritte, da cui la decisione dei curatori di adeguare il titolo ai 
contenuti effettivi) sono quelli che nel contesto europeo della seconda meta del XVIII secolo 
sanciscono l’egemonia britannica in ambito politico, sociale ed economico. Gli Stauble 
sottolineano 1’attenzione di Angiolini per la costituzione e il sistema politico inglese, per 
le liberta individuali, politiche e di stampa, per il senso dello stato dei cittadini inglesi, per 
la presenza significativa dell’opinione pubblica (sulla quale sempre attuali risultano gli studi 
raccolti in “La nascita di una opinione pubblica nell’Inghilterra del Settecento”, Quaderni 
storict, XIV [1979]), per l’amministrazione della giustizia, per l’attivita imprenditoriale, 
la produzione industriale, l’uso delle macchine e i cambiamenti operati sulla struttura sociale 
e sul modo di vivere dai nuovi criteri produttivi, infine, per l’educazione. Ogni argomento 
é trattato con concretezza, lucidita e perizia e, soprattutto, é considerato in senso relativo 
€ non assoluto, con la consapevolezza dell’impossibilita di trasportare altrove le realta descritte 
tali e quali. Anche l’itinerario é conseguenza della medesima concretezza. Angiolini visita 
i luoghi in cui pit ferve la vita produttiva e mercantile dell’isola: da Portsmouth a Londra, 
da qui a Bristol, a Birmingham, e poi a Leeds, Manchester, Liverpool, Glasgow, Edimburgo, 
sostando anche nei centri di cultura, Oxford e Cambridge. Ma ai temi strettamente letterari 
€ artistici Angiolini si sottrae, preferendo dare alle sue informazioni altra natura. Gli Stauble 
descrivono un viaggiatore teso ad osservare, apprendere, suggerire, e anche a immaginare 
“future felicita sociali” con lo sguardo rivolto all’Italia, che spesso si cimenta a confrontare 
con I’Inghilterra, a cui per ogni aspetto risulta inferiore. In fondo, sembra dire lo scrittore, 
la nazione britannica é la migliore di tutte. 

L’approccio critico e |’atteggiamento conoscitivo di Angiolini, aggregato ad una missione 
diplomatica napoletana diretta a Londra, hanno un precedente, anche se meno “professionale” , 
in Alessandro Verri, sul suolo inglese dal dicembre del 1766 al febbraio del 1767. Entrambi, 
ricchi di spirito riformistico, intendono trarre dagli esempi di progresso e di attuazione della 
modernita il maggior utile possibile da riportare in patria (Alessandro Verri ne lascia 
testimonianza nel carteggio di quegli anni con il fratello Pietro, in Viaggio a Parigi e Londra 
(1766-1767), acura di Gianmarco Gaspari. Milano, Adelphi, 1980). Mentre l’utilitarismo 
e il pragmatismo con cui Angiolini legge i dati della realta britannica del 1787-88 sono 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 721 


compensati dai sentimenti personali e dai toni eruditi del Giornale del viaggio d’Inghilterra 
negli anni 1787 e 1788 di Carlo Castone della Torre di Rezzonico, incui gli oggetti principali 
della descrizione sono le arti e le antichita (a Rezzonico é dedicato lo studio di E. Guagnini, 
“Viaggi in Europa e in Italia di Carlo Castone della Torre di Rezzonico”, in La regione 
e l’Europa. Viaggi e viaggiatori emiliani e romagnoli nel Settecento, a cura dello stesso. 
Bologna, Il Mulino, 1986. Guagnini é anche curatore del volume di prossima pubblicazione, 
presso l’Editore Mucchi di Modena, del Giornale del viaggio d’Inghilterra di C. C. Della 
Torre di Rezzonico, con appendice di lettere inedite). Angiolini concede poco spazio alle 
emozioni, agli stati d’animo e alle impressioni paesistiche, cui pure é sensibile ma che secondo 
gli Stauble sono messe da parte per il pudore dei sentimenti e per l’incapacita di esprimerli. 
L’ammirazione per |’Inghilterra non é tuttavia incondizionata e, se l’imparzialita con cui 
l’autore considera le zone d’ombra della societa industriale é una sua peculiarita, in accordo, 
ricordano i curatori, con il dubbio gia settecentesco sulla morale mercantile e sull’idea di 
progresso, il rilievo delle contraddizioni e dei difetti inglesi € in comune con un altro viaggiatore 
€ scrittore, Giuseppe Baretti, che negli anni del viaggio di Angiolini vive ancora a Londra. 
Baretti scrive un’ opera a cui la descrizione dell’ Inghilterra di Angiolini si pone come cotrocanto, 
ossia An Account of the Manners and Customs of Italy del 1768, descrizione dell’ Italia preparata 
per il pubblico inglese, a difesa di un’italianita fraintesa e preconcetta. 

Scritte con una prosa essenziale e scorrevole, intervallate da qualche parola e frase 
inglese, le Lettere sono di lettura piacevole e hanno il pregio della chiarezza, accresciuta 
dalle numerose note di carattere filologico, di storia politica, economica, sociale e culturale 
di cui gli Stéauble le hanno corredate. La finzione epistolare nulla toglie all’“autentico 
entusiasmo” vissuto durante il viaggio, che I’Introduzione e la Nota biografica dei curatori 
fanno gustare con maggiore consapevolezza, per i ragguagli che offrono sulla personalita 
del viaggiatore toscano, a cui hanno gia dedicato pagine di studio con La Gran Bretagna 
del Settecento vista da un viaggiatore italiano, in Colloquium Helveticum, V1 (1987). Proposta 
con una bibliografia critica esaustiva e una nota al testo, presentato secondo criteri 
essenzialmente conservativi, l’opera unica di Angiolini arricchisce la personale tradizione 
di studi degli Stauble nel riproporre libri di viaggio del Settecento italiano in edizioni critiche 
(ricordo quelle con commento letterario, storico e filologico di A. De’ Giorgi Bertola, Diari 
di viaggio in Svizzera e in Germania. Firenze, Olschki, 1982 e Viaggio sul Reno e ne’ suoi 
contorni. Firenze, Olschki, 1986), che per l’aspetto di cura filologica interessano la lettura 
specialistica, ma per la scelta tematica contribuiscono ad avvicinare un pil! ampio pubblico 
alla lettura del Settecento italiano, attraverso il genere letterario di evasione proprio di quel 
secolo. 


Cristina Bracchi, Universita degli Studi, Milano 


Elvio Guagnini. Viaggi e romanzi: Note settecentesche. Modena: Mucchi Editore, 
1994. Pp. 284 (Il Vaglio, n° 27).' 


Sette studi su viaggi e viaggiatori e cinque saggi sul romanzo nel Settecento formano questo 
agile volume. Si tratta di articoli pubblicati in precedenza su riviste (pill o meno note) di 


1. Questa nota é stata pubblicata in precedenza su Forum Italicum, che ringraziamo per avercene permesso 
la riproduzione. 


722 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


critica letterarie o in atti di convegni, e solo in un paio di casi riprodotti nella versione originale 
italiana, mentre il testo era precedentemente apparso in altra lingua. La mancanza di “novita” 
vera € propria é sottolineata dal fatto che non é stata apportata nessuna modifica alle varie 
componenti di questo repéchage, tutte composte nell’arco di tempo che va dal 1980 al 1992. 

Se alcuni di questi saggi investono temi teorici e appena di pil ampio respiro, come 
quello iniziale (“Letteratura di viaggio e storia della letteratura”), che tuttavia riguarda 
praticamente solo l’area settecentesca, altri finiscono per esaurirsi nell’analisi di singoli 
personaggi e di opere di interesse relativamente limitato (é il caso degli studi su Pietro de 
Lama, Giuseppe Maria Galanti e Francesco Gritti: personaggi “a loro modo autorevoli”, 
secondo Guagnini, per quanto, come ammette lui stesso, decisamente “minori”; pit densi, 
invece, i due studi su Carlo Castone della Torre di Rezzonico, viaggiatore dotato di giudizio 
indipendente e di finissima sensibilita). Resta lodevole, intuttiisaggiche compongono questo 
volume, il tentativo di cercare intersezionitra i vari aspetti della cultura settecentesca italiana, 
sollecitata da problematiche critiche e storiografiche contrastanti. Soprattutto valida ci pare 
la disamina della storiografia relativa all’ odeporica e la rivalutazione dell’apporto della critica 
positivistica, ma il lamento di Elvio Guagnini sulla presente situazione della saggistica storico- 
letteraria resta ancora attuale, benché scritto nell’88: “il problema é stato recepito finora 
soprattutto al livello delle trattazioni specialistiche o nelle trattazioni complessive storico- 
letterarie di qualche estensione. Nella saggistica storico-letteraria pit di sintesi, le tracce 
sono assai recenti e ancora scarse (a parte qualche eccezione): opere singole o minori di 
un autore e comunque all’interno di profili monografici” (p. 18). 

Una “vox clamantis in deserto”, quella dell’autore, che avremmo voluto vedere in azione 
a colmare il vuoto che lamenta. I] materiale fondamentalmente eterogeneo delle due parti 
in cui si divide questa collettanea non riesce a trovare una unita che non sta cercando, per 
quanto nel titolo, per esempio, |’interpretazione della congiunzione connettiva possa dare 
adito a una certa speranza. II lettore potrebbe essere indotto a credere di avere tra le mani 
uno studio analitico che confronti letteratura odeporica e romanzo settecentesco, e ne studi 
riflessi, relazioni e dipendenze, nella linea dell’ormai ben noto volume di Percy G. Adams, 
Travel Literature and the Evolution of the Novel (Lexington: The University Press of Kentucky, 
1983). Invece, ed € un vero peccato per gli addetti all’odeporica, allettati forse da un titolo 
programmatico estremamente accattivante, questo volume offre due sezioni idealmente distinte 
(“never the twain shall meet”) e giustapposte senza il tentativo dell’utile rapprochement 
preconizzato dallo studio dell’ Adams. I] che non significa che Viaggi e romanzi possa risultare 
meno utile di altri: piuttosto, l’ambivalenza del titolo scelto finisce per promettere al lettore 
piu di quanto il volume offra realmente. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


J.L. Amorés, M*. L. Canut, y F. Marti Camps, Europa 1700: El “Grand Tour” 
del menorquin Bernardo José. Barcelona: Serbal; Mahon: Institut Menorqui 
d’Estudis, 1993. Pp. 502 (“Libro del bueno andar”, n° 29). 


E] libro publicado por el matrimonio Amorés-Canut, en colaboraci6n con el recién fallecido 
reverendo Marti Camps, representa un estudio y un comentario ilustrado de la Europa occidental 
entre los siglos XVII-XVIII, y concretamente la de hacia 1700, el llamado “Afio Santo”, 
a base de un diario de viajes redactado por el joven caballero Bernardo José Olives de Nadal 
(1678-1715), natural de Ciutadella de Menorca. El padre Marti Camps ya habia dado varias 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 723 


noticias sobre el personaje de Bernardo José Olives de Nadal en tres articulos distintos 
correspondientes a los afios 1950, 1956 y 1987. No obstante, no fue hasta la aparicién del 
libro que consideramos aqui que se publicé el diario del noble menorquin Bernardo José 
(como le aman los autores), 0, por lo menos, la mayor parte de su manuscrito. Amorés, 
a quien se debe el Prélogo, nos describe la metodologia empleada en la preparacion del 
volumen: 


En esta obra presentamos el relato que nos dejé Bernardo José de su viaje de casi 
dos afios de duracién. El manuscrito, que se transcribe practicamente integro y 
en la secuencia original, ha sido complementado con datos y explicaciones que 
permitan situar al lector en el lugar y momento histérico que refiere Bernardo 
José. Para mejorar la lectura de la obra, el texto ha sido estructurado en capitulos 
que correspondena las distintas partes en que puede dividirse l6gicamente el relato 
original. ... Como complemento visual se han reproducido mAs de 260 grabados, 
la mayor parte de la €poca, que pretenden situar al lector en el tiempo de aquel 
viaje y seguir las descripciones que proporciona su autor (pag. 9). 


Como observa Amoros, el manuscrito original del diario de Bernardo José fue copiado “con 
benedictina paciencia y pulcritud” (p4g. 7), en el archivo particular de la familia Olivar situado 
en Ciutadella, por Marti Camps, quien era entonces archivero diocesano de la misma ciudad 
menorquina. Es una ldstima, sin embargo, que el responsable de aquella copia no Hevara 
a cabo su tarea siguiendo criterios filol6gicos, puesto que un examen de algunos folios del 
diario de Bernardo José, reproducidos en el libro (pag. 21), revela importantes diferencias 
ortograficas entre el manuscrito original y la copia hecha por Marti Camps. Aunque el autor 
del Prélogo nos informa que el manuscrito del diario se transcribié casi integro, no da indicacion 
alguna de las partes 0 secciones excluidas. Ademds, los apartados reproducidos del diario 
aparecen en forma discontinua, ya que entre ellos se encuentran largos comentarios de caracter 
orientador o complementario, los cuales son en general muy valiosos, al lado de numerosas 
ilustraciones (grabados, mapas, etc.). 

Ademias de su interés como documento histérico, el diario de Bernardo José tiene un 
mérito particular: representa un relato escrito por un espafiol — un menorquin — que, a 
fines del siglo XVII, realiz6 un largo viaje por Europa para ampliar su cultura. Como afirma 
Amoros: “Hasta ahora la casi totalidad de la literatura de viajes que se ha publicado en nuestro 
pais trata de las visitas que hicieron a Espajfia viajeros extranjeros, la mayor parte ingleses, 
en los siglos XVII y XVIII 0 posteriores, conocidos a través de sus diarios. Se nota a faltar 
la correspondiente a los viajeros espafioles que se atrevieron a asomarse al exterior...” (pag. 
9). 

La ruta seguida por Bernardo José le llev6 en primer lugar desde Ciutadella hasta Alcudia 
en la isla vecina de Mallorca, y, de alli, a Catalufia, donde el viajero desembarcé en Mataro 
antes de entrar en Barcelona. Al marcharse de la capital catalana, continu6 su periplo por 
el nordeste de Catalufia (Girona, Figueres), las tierras meridionales de Francia (Perpifian, 
Arles, Marsella), y luego se dirigié a Italia, siguiendo uno de los itinerarios tradicionales, 
pasando por Génova, Livorno, Pisa y Florencia antes de llegar a Roma, donde, como peregrino 
del Afio Santo, se qued6 casi tres semanas. Visit6 ademd4s Napoles, Loreto, Ancona, Venecia, 
Milan y Turin antes de entrar otra vez en territorio francés, donde pasé por Lyon, Nevers, 
Orleans y Paris. Después recorrié Flandes, Holanda, Londres y el sur de Inglaterra. Al 
emprender el viaje de regreso a Espafia, paso por Versalles (donde visité la corte de Luis 


724 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


XIV), y en Bayona coincidiéd con Felipe V en el viaje que éste realiz6 a Madrid. De alli 
Bernardo José volvid a Menorca a través de Tarragona y Valencia. 

A pesar de las limitaciones sefialadas mas arriba, este libro constituye una obra importante 
dentro del género de la literatura de viajes. Los autores del volumen: José Luis Amoros, 
Maria Luisa Canut, Fernando Marti Camps, y, claro esta, Bernardo José Olives de Nadal 
mismo, nos han proporcionado un precioso retrato de la Europa occidental a comienzos del 
siglo XVIII. 


Philip D. Rasico, Vanderbilt University 


Renato Martinoni. Viaggiatori del Settecento nella Svizzera italiana. Locarno: 
Armando Dado Editore, 1989. Pp. 517 (Il Castagno, n° 5). 


E nel Settecento che la Svizzera comincia ad affiorare nei diari di viaggio come entita a 
sé stante. Terreno difficile e aspro per il viaggiatore del Rinascimento, non esclusi i membri 
della fraternity del Grand Tour, area dalla corografia difficile, da attraversare rapidamente, 
con uno sguardo attento al sentiero scosceso che preclude troppo spesso la contemplazione 
di cime troppo erte e troppo vicine per permetterne il godimento estetico. Per molti anni 
é€ l’esperimento sociale e religioso di Ginevra a fare la parte del leone nei rari documenti 
odeporici del Cinque e Seicento che descrivono la Svizzera, poiché la meta di questi viaggiatori 
resta sempre la “Saturnia tellus” che li attende, assolata e ubertosa, al di 1a delle Alpi. 

L’antologia che qui presentiamo é una raccolta di documenti del Settecento, curata 
da Renato Martinoni, attento lettore di quanto interessa il suo Ticino. Si tratta di una scelta 
di testi rappresentativi di varie “classi” della letteratura odeporica, e per contenuto e per 
fine, scritti da viaggiatori di vari paesi, tra cui prevalgono svizzeri e tedeschi. Svanite le 
illusioni oleografiche di una Svizzera bucolica, la realta esistenziale della Federazione diventa 
per il viaggiatore illuminista il motivo principale per il viaggio in Svizzera, che é anche 
€ spesso viaggio di istruzione scientifica 0 di conquista sportiva ante litteram (come quella 
del Monte Bianco [1787], che varra al de Saussure brutti versi scritti da Alessandro Volta). 
Del conte comasco, infatti, che si propone di giungere fino a Ginevra “per legar commercio 
letterario con molti grandie scienziati uomini” , leggiamo descrizioni molto belle (ed inattese) 
degli “orridi” e dei contrasti di questo paese (“una valle deliziosa ed aperta, ricca di bei 
pascoli, e popolata da pingui mandre, che succede immediatamente ad una gola buja, stretta 
e profonda, il cui aspetto sgomenta il passaggero”. 

Generalmente é il paesaggio, piu che l’uomo, ad interessare il viaggiatore settecentesco 
in Svizzera. Questa scelta di testi diventa percid un’ottima documentazione geocorografica 
del territorio in cui solo raramente fa capolino l’aneddoto personale. Talvolta, invece, ed 
é il caso delle belle pagine tratte dal Tour in Switzerland di Helem Maria Williams (1798), 
si tratta di annotazioni diaristiche che uniscono osservazione attenta, scrittura elegante e 
anglosassone distacco. Tra gli autori compresi in questa antologia, troviamo cinque italiani, 
otto svizzeri di lingua tedesca e uno di lingua francese, tre tedeschi, tre francesi, due inglesi 
e uno spagnolo. Se vasta é la gamma di varieta etniche, quella delle finalita odeporiche, 
delle ragioni per cui questi viaggiatori hanno scelto di illustrare la Svizzera é pure ampia: 
siva dai naturalistie gli scienziati (Volta, Jetzler, Pini, Scheuchzer, Amoretti, De Saussure, 
Ebel) ai geografi e agli artisti (Fasi, Leucht, Meyer), senza dimenticare i militari (Louis 
Desaix), iletterati (Giovanni Vagliano, Benedetto Odescalchi, Leandro de Moratin, Friedrich 
Brun) e la Williams, una delle onnipresenti pasionarie anglosassoni che percorrevano |’Europa 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 725 


tra il Sette e l’Ottocento. Ne é uscita una bella antologia, impeccabilmente presentata e dotata 
di una elegante documentazione iconografica. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Bruno Magliocchetti and Anthony Verna, eds., The Motif of the Journey in 
Nineteenth-Century Italian Literature. Introduction by M. H. Abrams. Gainsville: 
University Press of Florida, 1994. Pp. xi + 199. 


The essays in this anthology explore one of the most enduring topoi in the literature of Western 
civilization: the peregrinatio vitae—a quest which is so intriguing that it appears in all centuries, 
in hundreds of texts and thousands of pages. The editors were wise, I believe, in limiting 
the scope of their collection to a single country and century, specifically, to “a time when 
countries became increasingly more interdependent and conscious of each other’s cultures” 
(viii). To its credit, this anthology deals with the trope, not as a single time-honored motif 
on which excellent critical minds converge with a sameness of purpose, but rather as a series 
of distinct though interrelated moti spiritali (the term is Dante’s, invented for the purpose 
of indicating movement-of-spirit toward understanding and growth), any one of which can 
point beyond itself to implications deep inside the nineteenth century. The individual essayists 
treat the motif in relation to a wide variety of texts and genres, and from a number of critical 
perspectives, not infrequently exceeding the bounds of Italian literature per se. I will focus, 
therefore, on those essays which most closely reflect Italy’s contributions within the stated 
framework of increased European cultural interdependency. 

In a meticulously researched introductory essay, “Spiritual Travelers in Western 
Literature,” M.H. Abrams sets up the philosophical paradigms necessary to steer the reader 
through the textual journey of the volume. He reconstructs the rich heritage of intellectual 
and imaginative treatments of the trope from its biblical origins to Romanticism (and beyond), 
and shows how the German and English Romanticists gradually, but defiantly, transferred 
the goal of the journey “from heaven to earth” (9), until, finally, with Hegel and Wordsworth, 
the true goal became “the journey itself” (14). Abrams thus delineates a comprehensive cultural 
inheritance which was also available to nineteenth-century Italian intellectuals. 

Against this critical backdrop, the subsequent essayists have carefully coordinated their 
work, noting parallels as well as inconsistencies among the diverse traditions of Europe, 
and never underestimating the fact that Italy itself was the frequent goal of a standard Grand 
Tour—a physical tour which in some instances could be transformed into a meaningful moto 
spiritale. Eleanor Cook, for example, in “The Italian Journey: From James to Eliot to 
Browning,” illustrates the significance of Italy as a locus in the works of three English-speaking 
authors. The journey she analyses is a quest traced backward: “a metalepsis” (41); specifically, 
the reading journey undertaken by Henry James (in Portrait of a Lady) through George Eliot 
(in Daniel Deronda) all the way back to Robert Browning (especially in “My Last Duchess”). 
The Browning link “is new” (41), and it “leads us toward ... Browning’s whole sense of 
Italy” (48). As an example, she remembers his, “Open my heart and you will see, / Graved 
inside of it, ‘Italy’” (42). The compendium of carefully chosen quotations which she offers 


2. A shorter version of this review has appeared in the South Central Review. It is reprinted here with 
the permission of the editor. 


726 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


shows, first, the “line of succession” (42) among the three authors in question, and then, 
how that line travels to the center of James’s poetics: to the “possible tension between ... 
aesthetics and ethics” (52). Thus, the itinerary described in Portrait of a Lady is a true 
Bildungsreise [educational journey] that “not only occurs in Italy, it belongs to Italy” (43). 
As an additional point, Cook offers an interesting sampling showing at least the potential 
for a feminist reading of the novel. 

Italy provided the ideal cultural humus for some literary travelers, but not for the French. 
In an essay on “French Travel Accounts in the Nineteenth Century,” Christian Bec extracts 
from a long catalogue of French narratives a certain repetitive tendency which is as predictable 
as it is xenophobic. Utilizing a methodology which is “on purpose reductive,” he affirms: 
“The [French] writers who traveled to Italy did so with preconceived ideas” acquired through 
“previous readings” or indeed from “tourist guides.” With few exceptions, the journeys 
they undertook “served ... not to change but to confirm these prejudices” (91), so that for 
Gautier, Chateaubriand, Lamartine, and others who followed in their footsteps, Italy was 
no more than a collection of “fallen” (88) or “dead cities” (90). 

Such a response was a far cry from Ugo Foscolo’s reaction to early nineteenth-century 
England, a country which appealed to this fine poet for its thriving literary marketplace and 
subtle humor. In an elegant and provocative essay, “Ugo Foscolo’s Europe: A Journey from 
the Sublime to Romantic Humor,” Gustavo Costa utilizes the Lettere scritte dall’Inghilterra 
[Letters From England] as the module which critically identifies the binary pull of Foscolo’s 
mature poetics: “the sublime and the comic. Both are linked to the theme of the journey” 
(21), and “exert upon each other a strong magnetic pull, which precludes the possibility 
of a purely sublime or comic expression. The ultimate result ... is Romantic humor” (28-29). 
With this dialectic in mind, Costa sheds much light not only on Foscolo’s literary itinerary 
but also on the physical energies that sustained this wanderer-writer across many lands, from 
his native Zacynthos to Italy to Switzerland to France and finally to England, where he died 
in 1827. Throughout, Costa sensitively articulates the internal dynamics of a tension which, 
as it unfolded, produced many good fruits, including the masterful Italian translation of Sterne’s 
Sentimental Journey (a translation, one might add, which not infrequently surpasses the original 
in elegance and expressive power): “Foscolo was perfectly aware that Sterne’s magic style 
was made not only of mirth but also of tears” (29). 

Traces of humor are also to be found in the interesting corpus of texts produced by 
Italian journalists, explorers, envoys, etc., who ventured abroad in the aftermath of the 
Risorgimento. Elvio Guagnini’s “New and Traditional Forms of Nineteenth-Century Travel 
Literature” shows how this new wave of writers first promoted the idea of travel as a catalyst 
for change, and then broadened the discussion to include a “poetics of travel literature” (151). 
Pathfinders such as Giovanni Rajberti and Giovanni Faldella, followed by the immensely 
popular De Amicis and Fucini, sensitized “an ever growing reading public” (166) to the 
newfound responsibilities of political unity thereby stimulating real interest in European affairs. 
These traveler-writers are studied for their individual merits as well as for their cogent responses 
to each other’s reportage, so that we get an accurate picture of Italy’s evolving journalistic 
marketplace. 

And what of the non-journalists—those major Italian figures of the nineteenth century 
for whom the art of writing was itself the very substance of their individual quests? Suffice 
it to say that Manzoni, Leopardi, Verga, as well as Pascoli and Nievo are indeed carefully 
studied, by G. Singh, S. B. Chandler, R. Luperini, V. R. Giustiniani and M. Colummi 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 727 


Camerino, respectively. These essayists, rather than rehearsing what is most accessible, 
add new and even revolutionary dimensions of meaning to the ancient peregrinatio motif. 
But it is Antonino Musumeci who synthesizes the use of the motif in an impressive array 
of major and minor writers of the period, arguing that they do indeed share a common cultural 
inheritance. In “Of Swallows and Farewells,” Musumeci focuses on the negative values 
attached to the peregrinatio, and asserts that these values become the collective attitude of 
a nation: “Italy is a country of frontiers not to be transcended but to be respected; its values 
have been values of permanence, not of projection” (82). In other words, the dynamics of 
the journey become powerful metaphoric constructs that lead to a tenacious espousal of 
homespun values, rootedness, even enclosure. All of which seems, and is, plausible. But 
how then do we explain the mass exodus of Italians to alien lands just after the Risorgimento? 
And what of the great Italian explorers of past centuries? Not to mention Dante!, whose 
Commedia, states Abrams, is “the greatest of all literary instances” (17) of the peregrinatio 
plot form. These are not easy questions, but we can at least formulate them more intelligently 
after having read this fine, thought-provoking anthology. 


Raymond Petrillo, Texas A & M University 


Emanuele Kanceff. Poliopticon italiano. Moncalieri: Centro Interuniversitario 
di Ricerche sul “Viaggio in Italia”, 1992. Pp. 860, in two volumes (“Biblioteca 
del Viaggio in Italia”, n. 48). 


Pionere dell’ odeporica specializzata nello studio del “Viaggio in Italia”, direttore del “Centro 
Interuniversitario di Ricerche sul Viaggio in Italia” da cui emanano una rivista e due ricche 
collane di testi e di studi, Emanuele Kanceff, professore all’universita di Torino, é una figura 
ben nota agli addetti ai lavori che hanno partecipato attivamente alla creazione di questo 
numero speciale di Annali. Organizzatore dinamico e infaticabile di incontri e di simposi, 
di convegni e di congressi internazionali, Kanceff ha raccolto nei due volumi del Poliopticon 
italiano i risultati di tre lustri di studi: ventotto contributi di cui alcuni gia pubblicati e dispersi 
in varie riviste italiane e straniere, che vogliono essere soprattutto, come confessa |’autore 
nella prefazione, |’“occasione di riflettere [e di] confrontare le idee che [ha] professato nel 
tempo, chiarire le connessioni nascoste che le avevano sostenute, unire idealmente le tessere 
disperse del [suo] lavoro per tentare di leggerne il disegno”. 

Il défrichage dell’ambito storico-letterario su cui nasce |’odeporica (almeno per quanto 
riguarda i suoi riferimenti all’Italia come meta geografica e come base per un pili vasto network 
di contatti culturali) é sviluppato da Kanceff intre aree di ricerca ben definite: ]’analisi critica 
del genere letterario e delle sue strutture, il “caso” particolare del libertino francese Jean-Jacques 
Bouchard (su cui Kanceff iniziava la sua carriera di studioso) e le relazioni personali con 
Angiolo Tursi, che lascio alla Biblioteca Marciana la sua ricchissima collezione di libri rari 
sul viaggio in Italia. 

Ventotto studi, di varia importanza e lunghezza costituiscono quindi questo Poliopticon 
italiano, di cui il titolo sottolinea appunto la varieta di prospettiva: una messe abbondante 
di lavori che interesseranno certamente gli specialisti della rinascente odeporica scientifica. 
Attorno a questi temi ruotano serie di studi paralleli: 1’Ottocento francese é particolarmente 
ricco di spunti, ma non mancano numerosi studi di taglio pil particolare, sulla Valle d’ Aosta, 
i laghi, Venezia, Genova e la Sicilia. 

Gli studi raccolti nella sezione “Bouchardiana” (pp. 105-167) mi sembrano particolarmente 


728 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


importanti. Confluiti in seguito nella pubblicazione (Torino, Giappichelli, 1976) del Journal 
di Bouchard, questi saggi costituiscono un esempio della metodologia applicata da Kanceff 
a documenti storici e letterari relativi al viaggio in Italia. Solo un’analisi testuale capillare 
puo permettere allo studioso di cercare un denominatore comune nel mosaico frammentario 
di influenze diverse e contrastanti. Se la ricerca nel campo del viaggio in Italia é ancora 
in via di elaborazione, cid é dovuto al fatto che talvolta si vogliono raggiungere conclusioni 
prima ancora di analizzare i testi. E il testo del Journal bouchardiano, paradigmatico di quanto 
si proponevano di trovare in Italia gli studiosi stranieri del Seicento, e di alto interesse 
documentario e stilistico, permette agli addetti ai lavori una serie di estrapolazioni illuminanti. 

Altri studi sull’Italia di De Brosses, Stendhal, Nerval e Gabriel Faure rivelano la 
continuazione di un’analisi costantemente basata sulla ricerca di documenti storici e sulla 
lettura attenta di testi gia noti. Una lettera inedita (e “scomoda”) di De Brosses ci permette 
di entrare nella genesi delle sue Lettres familiéres. Gli appunti sul miraggio lacustre in uno 
scrittore di montagna come Stendhal, i riferimenti letterari del viaggio in Italia di Franz 
Liszt, lo studio dell’esperienza italiana nel Romanticismo francese allargano e completano 
il mosaico dell’approccio di Kanceff a questo genere letterario. Benché ci si renda conto 
di essere ancora lontani dalla comprensione totale di quanto |’odeporica possa offrire, ci 
Si sta avvicinando a grandi passi. E questo lo dobbiamo anche ai saggi raccolti in questi 
due volumi. 

Una piccola osservazione di natura pratica potrebbe essere rivolta all’impostazione 
dell’apparato delle note: millecinquecentoventi, tutte utili e senza dubbio interessanti, sono 
raggruppate alla fine del secondo volume in duecentocinquanta fitte pagine. Forse sarebbe 
stato pill pratico metterle a pié di pagina, ora che l’elaborazione elettronica del materiale 
permette una impaginazione pit rapida e certo pil. economica di quanto fosse possibile nel 
passato. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Tensie Whelan (ed.), Nature Tourism: Managing for the Environment. Washington, 
D.C.: Island Press, 1991. Pp. xii + 223. 


Ed Griffin-Nolan, Witness for Peace: A Story of Resistance. Louisville: Westmin- 
ster/John Knox Press, 1991. Pp. 237. 


Francois Jean (ed.), Life, Death and Aid: The Médecins sans Frontiéres Report 
on World Crisis Intervention. London and New York: Routledge, 1993. Pp. xiv 
+ 160. 


Tourism is now the world’s second largest industry, next after the trade in weapons. We 
are familiar with the hotels erected at every beach or mountain lake that might attract potential 
tourists, or the cruise ships that ply every waterway during seasons of acceptable weather. 
These hotels and ships constitute a sort of “Gulag archipelago” exhibiting a familiar sameness 
in all parts of the world, for the reason that they are dominated by a few large corporations 
and appeal to a relatively homogenous international class of tourists. 

But this does not exhaust the types of voluntary, “optional” travel that we see in our 
times. In addition to commercial travel, seeking markets or resources, there has always been 
some sort of military tourism. The impulse was expressed by the U.S. recruiting slogan, 
“Join the Army and see the world.” In the post-Vietnam era it has been satirized with the 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 729 


T-shirt motto: “Join the Army. Travel to exotic, distant places. Meet exciting, unusual people. 
And kill them.” 

But we have also seen the conscious creation of an “alternative tourism,” traveling 
to other countries but doing it in a different way and making a different point. 

In some ways it began with mission activities, which became a form of alternative tourism 
for adventuresome youth in the nineteenth century. The Student Volunteer Movement and 
many Catholic and Protestant mission organizations took motivated people throughout the 
world. Missions were facilitated, of course, by the growth of imperialism, and they always 
shared something of its mission civilisatrice. Perhaps the contemporary version of that attitude 
is seen in the flood of evangelical Christians from the U.S. who go into Russia and Eastern 
Europe to tell them what Christianity is all about, not knowing, or perhaps not caring, that 
Christianity has a thousand-year history in this region. And yet we also know that mission 
activity brought education, health care, and politically liberating ideas to many parts of the 
world. It even had a “rebound effect” upon the home countries; women, for example, were 
often able to do things on the mission field that they were not yet permitted to do at home. 

Contemporary versions of the mission impulse can be seen in the work projects sponsored 
by the American Friends Service Committee, the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, or Habitat for 
Humanity. There are even “Missionto the U.S.” programs which bring Third World persons 
to the “metropole.” 

Perhaps the most notable contemporary example of organized altruism is Médecins 
sans frontiéres, which takes medical care into the world’s trouble spots. On the basis of 
its “on the ground” experience as a non-governmental organization (NGO), the organization 
has recently criticized the United Nations’ use of military intervention for humanitarian reasons, 
arguing thai the use of armed force where there is no clear political purpose is counter- 
productive. 

There are many other forms of alternative tourism. Ecological tourism seeks to preserve, 
rather than destroy or remake, the natural environment. Typically it features walking or 
backpacking or riding on horseback instead of the tour bus. We are also seeing cultural tourism, 
whose purpose is to share the life of indigenous peoples and learn from them as guides through 
their natural environment or historical landmarks. Organizations like Cultural Survival attempt 
to defend the 15,000 ethnic groups in the world, many of them small and threatened by 
deforestation or dam construction. Cultural Survival’s purpose is notto “isolate” these people 
from the modern world (they know that this is impossible), but to give time for them to 
relate to it in their own way, on their own terms. 

And then there is the reality tourism of Global Exchange, based in San Francisco. Its 
“reality tours” are designed to acquaint U.S. citizens with conditions in countries that are 
usually criticized by the U.S. government and the mass media. Fact-finding tours have been 
taken to Nicaragua, Cuba, Vietnam, and Haiti. Some years ago the organization even planned 
a tour of Appalachia, calling it the U.S.’s own “Third World.” This turned out to be perhaps 
the most controversial of all, for the region did not like to be characterized in those terms! 

But perhaps the most significant kind of alternative tourism—what we must call political 
tourism—was invented by Witness for Peace in 1983. When a religious delegation from South 
Carolina went to the border between Nicaragua and Honduras in April, 1983, they noticed 
that the “contras” (the counter-revolutionary forces trying to destabilize and overthrow the 
Sandinista-led government of Nicaragua) stopped shooting when this group of U.S. citizens 
was in the village of El Porvenir. They decided to call for a continuous presence of 


730 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


Norteamericanos in the combat areas. In July a group of 150, after training in nonviolence, 
traveled to the border town of Jalapa for a weeklong vigil. From that time on, Witness for 
Peace sponsored both long-term volunteers, who documented violations of human rights, 
and short-term delegations, which made themselves, in effect, voluntary hostages. On several 
occasions, Witness for Peace volunteers were kidnapped by the contras and held for a period 
of time; but all were released within a few days because of international pressure. The fact, 
sad but true, is that the lives of U.S. citizens are a thousand times more valuable in the eyes 
of their own government than the lives of Nicaraguans. Witness for Peace has exploited 
this fact by developing a ministry of “accompaniment”—standing with people under assault, 
sharing their situation, and, in effect, daring their own government or its surrogates to treat 
them as it treated the citizens of Nicaragua. Since its founding in 1983, Witness for Peace 
has extended its activities to Guatemala, especially in accompanying Mayan refugees in their 
return from Mexico, and to Chiapas, where the Zapatista uprising at the beginning of 1994 
led to threats against campesinos and against the courageous bishop Samuel Ruiz. 

Tourism that makes a “political statement” has its parallels in the past. Pilgrimage to 
the shrine of Thomas 4 Becket at Canterbury always had overtones of resistance to the English 
crown; Henry VIII, in his nationalization of the English church, destroyed the shrine and 
prohibited acts of veneration there. In 1830 there was the famous pilgrimage of Lamennais, 
Lacordaire, and Montalembert to Rome, calling upon the Pope to recognize the French 
Republic; despite the publicity created by this early “media event,” the Pope did not respond 
affirmatively. The recent International Women’s Conference in China, despite (or because 
of) its being exiled from Beijing to Huairou, became an act of testimony on the part of many 
women against the customs and laws of their own countries and, of course, those of the 
government of China. 

The world is becoming more unified as a result of pacts between governments, the 
activities of trans-national corporations, and the speed and affordability of travel. But unification 
will not inevitably bring either harmony or homogeneity. People are becoming more intensely 
aware of differences within single countries, and, at the same time, their community of interest 
across political boundaries. 

The irony of our time is that the nineteenth-century socialist dream of international 
solidarity is on the way to fulfillment in the twenty-first century as a consequence of an ever 
more assertive global capitalism. This solidarity is coming to be expressed by labor 
organizations, by “non-governmental organizations,” and by “alternative trading” networks 
which bypass the corporate control of trade. And we may be assured that it will also continue 
to be expressed, in increasingly imaginative ways, in “alternative travel” of various kinds. 


Eugene TeSelle, Vanderbilt University 


Franco Cordelli, L’Jtalia di mattina. Milano: Leonardo, 1990. Pp. 110. 


Giro d'Italia 1989: fra i cronisti al seguito c’é un inviato per molti aspetti davvero speciale, 
il cui nom de plume, attribuitogli dai colleghi nel corso di un’epica trasvolata sull’ Africa, 
é Scipione. Se gia il nome conferisce una certa autorevolezza al personaggio, saranno pero 
la scelta stessa nonché il taglio delle sue inquadrature, oltre all’abbondanza di riferimenti 
letterari di cui € costellato il testo, a rendere palese la paternita della sedicente cronaca sportiva: 
fin dalle prime pagine, infatti, sara il narratore, un Cordelli in veste inedita, ad avere la 
meglio sul cronista, dando pit ampio respiro a un libro che risulta di piacevole lettura anche 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 731 


per chi di ciclismo conosca poco o nulla. 

Il percorso, sia per i “girini” che per noi lettori, comincia dalla Sicilia; gia durante 
i primi chilometri si capisce che il viaggio sara solo marginalmente funzionale al resoconto 
delle piccole e grandi imprese quotidiane dei corridori, perché il taccuino di Scipione conterra 
annotazioni su tutto quanto avra colpito la sua sensibilita e la sua attenzione sempre vigile 
nel contatto con luoghi e persone. Come egli stesso afferma, infatti, si evidenzia presto il 
particolare valore di questa opportunita che il suo mestiere gli ha offerto, quella cioé di 
attraversare I’Italia lentamente, paese dopo paese e campagna dopo campagna. Cosi, lungo 
la salita al traguardo dell’Etna, avviene che la caparbieta del contadino, che pietra su pietra 
si ostina a ricostruire cid che a intervalli di pochi decenni il gran vulcano continua a ingoiare, 
possa assomigliarsi per tempra a quella del “piccolo mondo” del ciclismo nella sua lotta 
col “grande mondo”, quello delle comunicazioni sempre pit veloci, che tutto sembra appiattire 
nella sua folle corsa. 

I tempi pit naturali consentiti dal mezzo a due ruote e la sua stessa essenzialita consentono 
dunque uno sguardo pit pacato oltre i bordi della strada, al di 1a di campi e tetti di case. 
A un’osservazione cosi attenta gli spunti di riflessione non tardano ad arrivare, soprattutto 
poi se il territorio che si sta attraversando é quello di una Sicilia dalle tinte esplosive sotto 
il riverbero solare, ma anche del non-colore delle anonime chiazze grigie della nuova edilizia 
che, pensa Scipione, “é la piaga pill grave della Sicilia, di tutto il Sud, forse di tutta |’Italia”. 
Quanto agli abitanti, l’intreccio fra ricordi personali e suggestioni letterarie (nel caso specifico, 
il Levi di Le parole sono pietre, dopo Sciascia ed Ercole Patti) porta Scipione a delineare 
la figura dell’“eroe”, che in queste terre altri non é che lo sconfitto, in contrapposizione 
a quella del “campione”, non soltanto sportivo, il solo a cui appartenga il futuro, laddove 
per gli eroi “non c’é che il presente di una illuminazione gloriosa e gia sfumata nel nulla”. 
L’eco costante delle letture personali di Scipione continua a fare da filtro all’osservazione 
della realta, col risultato di rendere pit densa la materia del discorso. Prese singolarmente, 
le considerazioni annotate a margine della corsa fornirebbero abbondante materia di discussione, 
ma la serpentina colorata del Giro, e noi con lei, continua a percorrere strade su strade; 
il tratto caratteristico di questo libro é infatti proprio nell’accostare con apparente leggerezza 
temi di diverso spessore, lasciati cadere qua e la quasi per caso o, meglio ancora, offerti 
al lettore che é lasciato libero di farne l’uso che crede. In questo senso il testo viene a far 
parte di quella che potrebbe ormai essere individuata come una categoria a sé stante nel pit 
vasto ambito della letteratura di viaggio, un tipo di cronaca letteraria ad opera di scrittori 
prestati per l’occasione al giornalismo sportivo, e che ha fra gliesempi di spicco l’esperienza 
di Buzzati, inviato per il Corriere della Sera al Giro d'Italia del 1949—e, prima ancora, 
di Achille Campanile—, della Ortese, di Alfonso Gatto e Pratolini. 

L’inviato Scipione, che apertamente si richiama ai letterati-viaggiatori che l’hanno 
preceduto collocandosi nella loro scia, tiene perd a evidenziare i tratti che lo differenziano 
dai “viaggiatori del dopoguerra, pieni di speranze in un mondo nuovo”, a cui potevano 
prospettarsi sfondi arcadici ormai dissolti. A motivare tale pessimismo non sembra pero 
sufficiente addurre, come il protagonista sembra fare, il diverso aspetto di paesaggi violati 
da colate di cemento avvertite come crudeli ferite deliberatamente inferte da ignoranza e 
insensibilita. Molto ancora, troppo forse, é mutato all’intorno e nello stesso piccolo mondo 
su due ruote, e se la bicicletta rischia “di essere schiacciata da un moloch troppo pil grande 
di lei”, é la coscienza stessa del narratore contemporaneo ad essere mutata, perché ormai 
dolorosamente awvertita della vanita dei viaggi, che non altro che vani possono essere quando 


732 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


la loro meta non sia geografica né temporale; al contrario, pensa Scipione, di quanto avveniva 
per i viaggiatori del passato. 

Di fronte a questa troppo palese assertivita, c’é da chiedersi se le mete cosi ben definite 
attribuite ai viaggiatori precedenti fossero poi davvero quelle rintracciabili su qualunque 
carta geografica, e non piuttosto luoghi del tutto personali, a loro volta reinventati dalle proprie 
letture e dalla sensibilita dell’ osservatore. Ma poco dopo sara lo stesso Scipione a stemperare 
la forza delle sue affermazioni, quando riflette sul fatto che anche per i pionieri del viaggio 
in Italia l’interpretazione del soggetto non era poi cosi semplice; a tale proposito cita il caso 
di Ardengo Soffici, che in Arlecchino compie percorsi che vanno ben pit lontano di quelli 
ffettivamente attraversati sotto il cielo di Lombardia. Fra gli scrittori alle prese con la cronaca 
sportiva, il caso di Cordelli € uno dei pill recenti, e anche in assenza delle pur esplicite 
indicazioni cronologiche fornite dall’autore le coordinate temporali potremmo agevolmente 
trovarle nei frequenti riferimenti all’attualita, icuiechi arrivano, ad esempio, da untelevisore 
intravisto nel fuggevole ingresso in un chiosco durante una delle soste della corsa. II piccolo 
schermo diffonde notizie sulle lotte di successione in Iran dopo la morte di Khomeini, oppure 
succede che la cronaca diventi parte integrante dell’evento principale in cui viene assimilata 
(come nel caso dei fatti di Tien An Men, che daranno spunto a considerazioni sulla Cina, 
paese della bicicletta), 0 si palesi in forma di iscrizioni antimeridionali ai bordi dei cavalcavia 
nell’Oltrepo pavese.Da queste e dalle varie altre considerazioni in cui spesso troviamo assorto 
il pensoso Scipione, che ogni tanto dimentica di annotare l’ordine di arrivo dei corridori, 
la pratica del ciclismo nella sua veste pili autentica esce pero tutt’altro che sminuita, perché 
anzi, proprio in quanto elemento aggregante di tale sovrapposizione di piani discorsivi, essa 
riesce a mantenere pressoché intatto il fascino che da sempre ha esercitato su intere generazioni 
di sportivi, confermando la sua capacita di resistere al “processo di smaterializzazione del 
mondo”, dove il gusto del viaggiare autentico, quello fatto del contatto materiale con luoghi 
e persone, é sempre pill insidiato dalla “crescente neutralita delle autostrade” e dalla “facilita 
dei cieli”. 


Olimpia Gargano, Universita degli Studi, Milano 


Alberto Savinio, Dico a te, Clio. Milano: Adelphi 1992. Pp. 139. 


Se negli animi particolarmente sensibili e irrequieti il viaggio sortisce sempre l’effetto di 
un confronto anzitutto con sé stessi, cid sembra tanto pid vero nel caso di un viaggiatore 
come Alberto Savinio, la cui finissima sensibilita culturale ed emotiva produce in questo 
leggerissimo volumetto una cronaca di viaggio del tutto particolare (la “leggerezza” & quella 
che, a buon diritto, l’autore stesso rivendica alla propria opera nella premessa formulata 
nel 1946, quarant’anni prima delle considerazioni di Calvino in proposito). 

“Clio” fu scritto nel 1939, quando lo scrittore, allora cinquantenne, andava a visitare 
in Abruzzo localita che non possono certo dirsi sacre alla letteratura odeporica, né comunque 
particolarmente rinomate, se non per il loro gravitare nell’orbita dei luoghi dannunziani. 
Per questo, anche se, appena in apertura, Savinio si dichiara subito “uno dei pochissimi 
italiani del tutto immuni da dannunzianismo”, la successiva considerazione sul fatto che tutto 
cid che riguarda D’Annunzio gli risulta nuovo a causa della sua lunga assenza dall’Italia 
fa supporre che egli sia comunque curioso di conoscere i luoghi cantati dal poeta abruzzese. 
Se tanto puo valere per quanto riguarda la scelta della meta, diversamente avviene per la 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 733 


qualita stessa del viaggio, che si compie sotto la scorta di una guida la cui identita risulta 
molto piu significativa delle possibili supposizioni del recensore, una guida che per ben tre 
volte nel corso della narrazione |’autore materializza attribuendole brevissimi ma fin troppo 
eloquenti interventi, di cui vale la pena citare per intero quello iniziale: “Quella mattina 
Charun mi sveglid, colui che scorta le anime da questa all’altra vita, e mi disse che bisognava 
partire. Non pensai neppure a farmi mostrare il mandato di cattura, e senza far motto lo 
seguii. ” 

L’etrusco nocchiero dell’ oltretomba fara la sua ricomparsa nell’ultima parte del viaggio, 
prima della visita ai luoghi che gli saranno pill congeniali, quali Cerveteri e Tarquinia; in 
apertura ci troviamo invece fra miti paesini d’Abruzzo, la cui agreste semplicita risalta per 
contrasto rispetto alla disposizione d’animo dell’autore, che prima di partire butta gil qualche 
osservazione sulla necessita di abituarsi fin da piccoli a tenere un diario, per liberarsi dal 
fardello delle proprie azioni e poter guardare con occhi limpidi verso l’avvenire. 

In una sensibilta tanto inquieta, l’avvenire non prospetta certo grandi promesse di felicita, 
ma si offre anzi come il non-luogo da cui il nulla eterno esercita il suo fascinoso richiamo. 
S’ingannerebbe pero chi da una simile premessa si aspettasse il resoconto estenuato di un 
viaggio nel proprio dolore esistenziale; |’agilita del tratto narrativo di Savinio, infatti, vela 
del sorriso leggero del disincanto anche le considerazioni pil amare, senza che ne venga 
per nulla sminuito l’interesse con cui lo scrittore si accosta ai diversi oggetti d’ osservazione 
di cui prova a decifrare i significati riposti, siano essi toponimi—sottoposti a suggestive 
ricostruzioni etimologiche—o luoghi d’arte, riletti alla luce di personali valenze simboliche. 
L’ attenzione all’etimologia si pud inserire nel pil ampio quadro di quel mondo classico 
cui Savinio é legato dalla sua biografia culturale e affettiva, fittamente intessuta dei richiami 
di un’infanzia trascorsa fra la Grecia e lapenisola balcanica, e che di tanto in tanto affiorano 
nel piccolo tour abruzzese. 

Il viaggio comincia nella prima meta di agosto per concludersi tre settimane dopo, in 
un itinerario compreso fra le pendici della Maiella (Guardiagrele, Sulmona) e la costa 
(Francavilla, Pescara, San Giovanni in Venere). 

Nei viaggi tende a verificarsi spesso una situazione altrimenti meno frequente, e cioé 
che ognuno finisce col trovare cid di cui si era messo in cerca, soprattutto quando si aspetta 
una conferma a percezioni gia configurate nel proprio immaginario; cosi Savinio, che in 
Abruzzo ritrova appunto quelle suggestioni risalenti agli anni della sua formazione, ne coglie 
soprattutto la semplicita dei modi e dei sentimenti, immediati nella loro istintivita, e al tempo 
stesso i possibili addentellati con quella cultura classica di cui é improntata la sua cifra stilistica, 
in letteratura come in arte. 

Echi classici e sensibilita verso un mondo in gran parte percepito come primitivo: 
potrebbero essere questi i poli fra cui il percorso si compie. Ecco allora intorno a una fontana 
di Ari “donne e ragazzi in positure anacreontiche”, la presenza ripetutamente evocata e infine 
quasi materializzata di Ovidio fra le vie della sua Sulmona, 0, sull’altro versante, l’immagine 
di un Abruzzo “tempio naturale”, dove si avverte con maggiore forza “lo sguardo petrigno 
di quelle madri che Faust scese a interrogare nel cuore della terra”, e una religiosita arcaica 
rintracciata nelle immagini ritratte da Francesco Paolo Michetti, che riproducono fenomeni 
di demopsicosi rituale, frequenti nella regione secondo Savinio e secondo il testo da lui 
consultato in materia di miti e superstizioni d’Abruzzo. 

Quelli visitati dall’autore sono paesaggi con figure, non stilizzate né caricate da intenti 
coloristici; all’incontro con abitanti del posto, siano essi persone comuni 0 appartenenti a 


734 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


famiglie di spicco, é riservata infatti l’attenzione che dovrebbe essere rivolta ad ogni incontro, 
in un viaggio che non voglia essere semplice spostamento fisico attraverso un luogo. Cosi 
avviene nel caso della “nonna”, la vecchia quasi centenaria dai lunghissimi baffi, che da 
voce al ricordo di tempi in cui il brigantaggio era pratica quotidiana, in una rievocazione 
trasognata che lascia sospettare nella sua sagoma ormai incartapecorita le remote fattezze 
della fedele compagna del capo dei briganti locali. Di tono diverso, ugualmente intensa, 
la descrizione di donna Annunziata Michetti, regale nella sua veste di guida allo studio del 
pittore e al convento (cenacolo di artisti, fra 1 quali anche D’Annunzio) le cui campane 
risuonavano ogni volta che gli illustri ospiti fossero persuasi di aver dato al mondo una nuova 
ricchezza, secondo quelle che per Savinio sono le eterne illusioni dell’umanita, che tuttavia 
hanno sempre trovato e troveranno spazio in un mondo che egli considera sufficientemente 
vasto e indifferente agli umani affanni. 

I] ritmo della narrazione scorre pacato, quando all’improvviso ricompare Charun che 
esorta a riprendere un viaggio di cui, evidentemente, quello attraverso le terre d’ Abruzzo 
non é che stata che una momentanea deviazione: comincia infatti ora l’ultima parte del percorso, 
quella forse pili intensamente vissuta per la sua natura ctonia che finalmente giustifica la 
presenza di una guida tanto impegnativa. Come anticipavamo in apertura, le due tappe 
conclusive sono infatti rappresentate dalle necropoli etrusche di Cerveteri e Tarquinia; per 
arrivarvi bisogna lasciare “la grande via lustra e sicura ... diretta verso citta grandie felici”, 
per intraprendere una navigazione fuori rotta, “nei mari deserti e verso isole sconosciute”. 
Sconosciute certo, ma forse proprio per questo cariche di insidiose lusinghe provenienti da 
una dimensione anelata e temuta al tempo stesso, dai contorni evanescenti come di spazio 
senza confini: il pensiero della morte esercita un’attrazione irresistibile, l’unica possibilita 
di distrarsene é fingersi affaccendati in una corsa incessante verso mete sempre nuove, in 
un’illusoria idea di progresso. Oppure si pud scegliere di farvi fronte affrontandolo con 
decisione, occupandosene continuamente; é stato questo l’intento degli Etruschi, che hanno 
fatto del culto dei morti la principale occupazione della loro vita, ed é ormai fin troppo chiaro 
quale sia il pensiero dominante che ha spinto lo scrittore fra le mura vivacemente affrescate 
degli ipogei, di cui osserva con cura minuziosa motivi decorativi e arredi, senza peraltro 
rinunciare a divertite considerazioni, come nel caso della tomba degli Auguri, che per la 
sua raffinatezza gli ricorda la gargonniére di Andrea Sperelli. 

La cultura letteraria pud tornare buona anche per scherzare su di una storta per un 
piede messo in fallo all’uscita da una tomba, cosi si fa ricorso a una sentenza di Catone il 
Vecchio specificamente raccomandata quale formula terapeutica. Il lettore si guardi perd 
dal prendere sul serio i momenti di brio, e altrettanto faccia per quelli pit cupi, visto che 
altrove, in una specie di “avvertenza per l’uso” della poesia—a proposito di alcuni versi 
danteschi—gli viene espressamente detto che l’umore dei poeti non é che un “colore 
superficiale” scelto di volta in volta a seconda dell’effetto voluto in un preciso momento. 
Se € davvero cosi, faremo a meno di accorarci per quello che avremmo invece considerato 
un accorato appello a Charun nel brevissimo dialogo finale, quando il terribile psicopompo 
Si mostra soprendentemente irremovibile nel rifiuto di concedere uno sconto di pena al suo 
interlocutore portandolo con sé, mentre questi chiede invano di essere accolto in quel mondo 
di pace e tranquillita che gli é stato fatto intravedere. 

Nel suo gioco sottile, col lettore certo, ma soprattutto con e su sé stesso, scherzando 
con la morte e sulle proprie paure, Savinio mantiene sempre vivace il ritmo narrativo, che 
piega con naturalezza alle diverse necessita imposte dalla varieta degli argomenti trattati; 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 735 


accade cosi che dall’esplorazione del loro mondo sotterraneo gli Etruschi, liberati dalle 
sovrastrutture di una storia a volte troppo ingombrante, prendano vita nella fantasia del lettore, 
a dimostrazione di come il campo dei sentimenti possa essere il terreno comune su cui possano 
incontrarsi uomini altrimenti separati dalle pesanti cortine del tempo. 


Olimpia Gargano, Universita degli Studi, Milano 


Emilio Cecchi, America amara. Padova: Franco Muzzio Editore 1995. Pp. 356. 


Pubblicato nel 1939, America amara comprende un’ampia silloge di brevi testi composti 
da Cecchi fra il 1930-31, nel suo primo soggiorno in America e Messico in occasione della 
sua docenza a Berkeley, e il 1937-38, quando vi ritornd avendo intanto al suo attivo la 
pubblicazione di Scrittori inglesi e americani (1935). 

Come si apprende dall’autore stesso nelle brevi note editoriali, non compaiono qui le 
precedenti prose raccolte nel ‘32 in Messico, il piccolo volume che raccoglie i suoi scritti 
di viaggio forse pill suggestivi, e comunque di taglio decisamente diverso rispetto all’ ampio 
testo del 1939, dove la descrizione € spesso caratterizzata da tratti pil simili a quelli 
dell’inchiesta, non a caso definita d’impronta sociologica (Pampaloni). D’altra parte, gli 
anni intercorsi fra la pubblicazione dei due libri sono troppo densi di eventi perché non se 
ne ritrovasse eco nella produzione letteraria, che nel caso specifico sembra risentire fortemente 
degli umori del momento, non particolarmente benevoli verso la societé americana in generale. 

In questa prospettiva possono forse essere meglio comprese le valutazioni spesso fortemente 
ironiche, quando non decisamente risentite, di cui il testo é cosparso, come quando siafferma 
che, quanto ad autonomia di giudizio, gli americani presi nel loro insieme fanno pensare 
alle pecore. Non molto diverso é il giudizio espresso sulla cultura americana, 0 meglio su 
di un certo modo americano di far cultura, criticata per l’eccessivo specialismo universitario, 
e al tempo stesso per la diffusa tendenza a porre filosofi, scienziati 0 musicisti al centro 
di una vera e propria venerazione a carattere universale, che liaccomuna tutti indistintamente 
(a testimonianza di cid, viene riportato l’esempio del portale della chiesa di Riverside Drive 
a New York, dove fra medaglioni di profeti e santi campeggia il ritratto di Einstein). 

Anche l’esperienza universitaria direttamente vissuta da Cecchi non sembra essere stata 
particolarmente entusiasmante, se egli definisce monotona e misera la conversazione accademica 
americana, dove gli interlocutori sembrano di solito troppo saldamente aggrappati alla propria 
“idea generale” che rifiutano di mettere in discussione, a causa forse degli echi sempre latenti 
del vecchio puritanismo, ma ancor pili per un diffuso clima di spionaggio conseguente ai 
nuovi orientamenti politici. 

Dopo tali premesse, sembra superfluo richiamare le sue considerazioni a proposito 
del nuovo corso rooseveltiano; come esempio in tal senso, bastera ricordare che gli esperti 
radunati nel Brain Trust gli riportano alla mente i socratici pensatori aristofaneschi, sospesi 
fra le nuvole di un confuso astrattismo al di sopra dei concreti bisogni della gente. 

Va invece messa in evidenza una delle peculiarita di questo libro che, in perfetta sintonia 
con la versatilita tipica di Cecchi, esercita un’attenzione a tutto campo verso i piu diversi 
oggetti d’osservazione. Per questo motivo ci sembra che |’ opera sia di quelle da raccomandare 
al lettore irrequieto, che ami spigolare fra le pagine per coglierne cid che di volta in volta 
possa meglio soddisfare la sua curiosita, dal momento che il nucleo tematico di ogni brano 
si sviluppa in piena autonomia rispetto agli altri con cui va tuttavia a comporre una specie 


736 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


di ritratto in movimento di un Paese che per la sua stessa vastita, non soltanto territoriale, 
non potrebbe forse essere rappresentato se non attraverso una numerosa serie di porte schiuse 
in ogni direzione. Cosi, se non si ha un motivo particolare per soffermarsi su alcune pagine 
piuttosto fitte di dati numerici e analisi sociopolitiche (come quelle, di valore prevalentemente 
documentario, volte a dimostrare che la paventata evoluzione verso il comunismo della politica 
americana € gia in atto in quegli anni), é pit difficile non trovare motivi d’interesse fra le 
tante testimonianze e riflessioni in materia di cinematografia, arte, letteratura, e sui pill vari 
aspetti della societa americana. Sarebbe altrettanto difficile sottrarsi al fascino esercitato 
dalla prepotente bellezza con cui i grattacieli fanno sentire la loro presenza (“un’esplosione 
congelata in mezzo al cielo”) nel brano ad essi dedicato, che ne evoca le linee costruttive 
riuscendo a riprodurre la magia notturna della baia di San Francisco attraversata da lunghi 
nastri di luce, senza peraltro tralasciare di fornire stralci di quella che costituisce ormai la 
storia del pensiero in materia di urbanistica. I confini della semplice rappresentazione visiva 
vengono infatti ampliati dal riferimento a F. L. Wright, e in particolare alla sua contrapposizione 
fra la “linea della verticalita” (rappresentata dal moto degli ascensori) a quella orizzontale 
o “della domesticita” (dei trasporti urbani e delle comunicazioni telefoniche). 

Accanto poi ai capitoli dedicati all’ osservazione del panorama letterario (dove imperversano 
la disillusione e lo sconforto: la depressione economica non poteva produrre altri effetti, 
osserva Cecchi, in una societa preoccupata unicamente del benessere materiale), di fenomeni 
sociali quali il proselitismo religioso, la violenza dilagante in forma di linciaggi o manifestazioni 
razzistiche, compaiono figure isolate 0 raggruppate nell’interpretazione di scene di vita 
quotidiana che si animano di vita propria. Fra i soggetti su cui il ricordo torna alla fine della 
lettura troviamo cosi la “musa senza mani”, l’impiegata della Biblioteca Pubblica cui un 
particolare difetto fisico vale una rappresentazione particolarmente incisiva nel capitolo a 
lei intitolato, 1 minuziosi ritratti di donna—particolareggiati anche nella resa dell’abbigliamento- 
—che individuano precisi livelli della condizione femminile americana, o le “Donne alla 
finestra”, dove le finestre sono quelle che affacciano sulla pil grande e derelitta strada di 
Citta del Messico, da cui “sacerdotesse di qualche divinita oscura e immonda” consumano 
nell’attesa dei clienti il tempo pietrificato della loro esistenza. 

E ancora il Messico, rivisitato a sette anni di distanza, a produrre effetti stranianti 
sull’osservatore che di fronte alla piramide dei serpenti a Tenayucan viene rapito dalla forza 
orrorifica trasmessagli dagli animali totemici di un’antichissima civilta di cui riesce tuttora 
a percepire echi inquietanti. 

Se € vero che questo libro puo essere letto come un’antologia di immagini dall’ America, 
la scelta di privilegiarne alcune rispetto ad altre non potrebbe che essere soggettiva, e comunque 
in tale varieta di temi si rischierebbero ingiustificate esclusioni. A voler invece individuare 
uno fra gli elementi ricorrenti nelle diverse prose, troviamo |’attenzione rivolta dall’autore 
alle varie forme in cui il progresso tecnologico si rende visibile; in queste occasioni si manifesta 
la competenza con cui egli riproduce il funzionamento di complessi macchinari che nel perfetto 
sincronismo dei loro movimenti gli trasmettono un’immagine di armoniosa potenza. 

Si veda a questo proposito il capitolo introduttivo, dove l’energia meccanica sprigionata 
dalla nave, il mezzo materiale tramite il quale il viaggio si compie, é oggetto di una descrizione 
minuziosa, quasi amorosa, come se lo scrittore subisse la seduzione delle macchine, dei lucenti 
congegni entro le cui articolate condutture il vapore compie il suo incessante ciclo vitale. 
Questo stesso interesse si manifesta nella visita alle catene di montaggio della Ford, laboratorio 
perfetto per l’osservazione di quei meccanismi produttivi che proprio in quegli anni vivevano 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus T37 


nell’industria americana il loro momento di gloria. Una delle sensazioni pid avvertite in 
queste occasioni é quella dell’armonia, un’armonia che non é solo dei movimenti, come 
sarebbe ovvio attendersi da congegni perfettamente funzionanti, ma che si traduce in una 
vera e propria musicalita. 

Gia a proposito dei grattacieli lo scrittore aveva detto che nei giorni di burrasca la loro 
struttura “vibra e ronza come corda di violino”, fino a che, nel capitolo conclusivo dove 
l’azione ritorna a bordo della nave, si dice certo di aver individuato le prime note dell’ Oro 
del Reno nel movimento ritmico del ventilatore di sala, in uno straordinario effetto acustico 
che gli rivela una perfetta coincidenza nel modo in cui un grande musicista e la macchina 
(“coscienza nuova,primitiva”) danno forma agli impulsi primordiali della natura, ai primi 
sussulti della vita che lotta per uscire dalla materia che la tiene imprigionata. 


Olimpia Gargano, Universita degli Studi, Milano 


Claudio Visentin, Nel paese delle selve e delle idee. I viaggiatori italiani in Germania 
1866-1914. Milano: Jaca Book, 1995. Pp. 506. 


Claudio Visentin, nato a Milano nel 1964, é ricercatore in Storia moderna presso |’ Universita 
della sua citta; negli ultimi anni il suo interesse si é rivolto in particolare alla storia del viaggio 
e all’ osservazione di tutto quanto connesso all’evoluzione del concetto di immagine dei paesi 
stranieri. 

Come osserva |’autore stesso in una nota introduttiva, il termine “immagine” é quello 
che compare con maggiore frequenza nell’analisi dei rapporti intercorrenti fra diversi popoli 
e Paesi; il suo uso risulta pero a volte alquanto generico e non abbastanza esplorato nelle 
sue valenze pil specifiche, come quelle che esso assume nell’area delle scienze sociali che, 
soprattutto negli ultimi anni, gli hanno assegnato una dimensione epistemologica autonoma 
€ non pil soltanto strumentale. Poste tali premesse, interrogarsi sulle modalita con cui 
l’osservatore si dispone a rappresentarsi |’ “altro” diventa essenziale per |’analisi della 
rappresentazione stessa, che a seconda degli intenti dell’autore viene poi strutturata in forma 
di saggio o di esposizione descrittiva. 

Nel volume di Visentin, in cui l’impianto metodologico soggiace al piano della descrizione, 
il testo assume una dimensione prevalentemente narrativa, dove a parlare sono gli stessi 
autori delle memorie di viaggio. Oggetto della ricerca €, per l’appunto, l’immagine della 
Germania nelle testimonianze dei viaggiatori italiani fra il 1866 e il 1914; dai loro ricordi 
viene fuori la loro stessa storia, 0 meglio la storia di quella temperie politico-sociale di cui 
gli autori sono espressione. Ne consegue allora che, mettendoci sulle orme tracciate da 
corrispondenti esteri, professionisti in viaggio di lavoro o viaggiatori per diporto, possiamo 
avere di rimando, e con buona approssimazione, un’idea della mentalita, che Visentin definisce 
“prevalentemente borghese”, comune agli autori delle testimonianze considerate. 

Nell’ambito di questa ampia categoria di giudizio il testo individua comunque, a scanso 
di appiattimenti riduttivi, tipologie descrittive differenziate a seconda della diversa estrazione 
socioculturale dei viaggiatori, oltre che, com’é ovvio, dei rispettivi orientamenti politici. 
Ad esempio, risulta molto positivo il giudizio che sulla Germania esprimono i cosiddetti 
“tecnici” (militari, ingegneri, medici, accademici), che guardano con occhio professionale 
alle recenti conquiste del paese “industriale”, cosi come é favorevole, sul piano politico, 
il giudizio di moderati e conservatori che ne ammirano il diffuso patriottismo e l’impeccabile 


738 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


organizzazione sociale. 

Partendo dagli stessi punti d’osservazione, arrivano ovviamente a conclusioni di segno 
diverso coloro che nutrono simpatie democratiche, e che si sentono invece sopraffatti 
dall’imponenza dei monumenti celebrativi e dalla ridondanza dei divieti. Una testimonianza 
in questo senso ci proviene da una delle numerose cartoline illustrate che costituiscono l’apparato 
iconografico del volume, sul recto della quale il mittente ha scritto ” Kaiser—soldati e verboten 
dappertutto, cid guasta anche le bellezze naturali”. 

Diversamente avviene per la Germania “paese delle selve e delle idee”, accostata non 
pit nella sua concreta identita ma in quanto “categoria mentale”, patrimonio comune di 
dimensioni sovranazionali. Tutti i viaggiatori concordano nell’ avvertire in quella tedesca 
la patria del pensiero, il pid saldo punto di riferimento per tutte le scienze. A questo comune 
sentire si devono descrizioni molto dettagliate delle strutture dell’organizzazione culturale 
e degli stessi luoghi del sapere, di cui spesso l’osservatore coglie con vivacita di toni aspetti 
di per sé marginali, ma che evidentemente lo attirano per la loro funzione evocativa di tempi 
ben pil remoti, quando allegre brigate di clerici vagantes percorrevano al lume delle fiaccole 
notturne le vie delle citta universitarie. 

Un/altra diversificazione nel giudizio é quella determinata dall’evolversi del contesto 
storico: lo scoppio della grande guerra, infatti, comporta un sensibile viraggio di prospeitiva 
cui contribuisce notevolmente una diffusa opera di propaganda, come dimostra l’ultima delle 
illustrazioni, una cartolina raffigurante il “dotto scimmione” tedesco. 

Il corposo volume offre un’ampia antologia organizzata per percorsi tematici (storia 
€ personaggi, luoghi e forme dell’ organizzazione culturale, politica, costume, arte). A scorrere 
l’elenco degli innumerevoli luoghi comuni sulla societa tedesca nelle sue varie manifestazioni, 
viene voglia di chiedere all’autore di sobbarcarsi ad altri cinque anni di lavoro - tanti quanti 
ne sono occorsi per questa sua prima opera - per andare a ritroso nel tempo a cercare di 
scoprire quando abbiano cominciato a diffondersi opinioni e giudizi cosi pervicacemente 
consolidatisi da arrivare fino ai nostri giorni in forme sostanzialmente immutate. 

I viaggiatori del secolo scorso arrivano infatti in Germania gia condizionati nel giudizio 
da suggestioni attinte a un immaginario comune, e dunque a sua volta preesistente al momento 
della loro personale esperienza di viaggio. Un testo che ha tracciato caratteri quasi indelebili 
nella rappresentazione del popolo tedesco é certamente la Germania di Tacito, che Visentin 
richiama a proposito della tradizione dei tedeschi “voraci bevitori” (in Dante, e nella stessa 
accezione, “lurchi”), e su cui poggiano saldamente affermazioni categoriche come questa 
di Arnaboldi, uno degli autori pit citati nella raccolta: “in nessun paese come in Germania 
si sente il desiderio di avere una divisa e di appartenere all’esercito”. Ai numerosi esempi 
a sostegno della teoria dell’innato militarismo tedesco se ne affiancano altri, afferenti alla 
Stessa area di giudizio, circa lo spiccato senso della disciplina e del dovere in tutti i campi 
della vita associata. 

A questo proposito non é difficile percepire il gusto dell’aneddoto nell’episodio del 
passeggero tedesco che, di fronte al suo treno pronto a partire sull’altro binario, non abbrevia 
itempi attraversando il binario libero, ma ritorna git per le scale, attraversa il sottopassaggio, 
risale dall’altra parte ... in tempo per vedere ormai allontanarsi il suo treno, e tuttavia 
intimamente soddisfatto dell’osservanza del regolamento. 

Altrettanto ben radicata nell’animo del viaggiatore di un secolo fa la rappresentazione 
della Griindlichkeit, la coscienziosa scrupolosita con cui i tedeschi si applicano sia nel lavoro 
che negli studi, avvertita in netto contrasto con la briosa superficialita degli italiani; i risultati 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 739 


immediatamente conseguenti, in un meccanismo deduttivo sempre pit stringente, portano 
i primi a quella che potremmo definire “solidita”, sia nel pensiero che nelle sue applicazioni 
pratiche, priva pero di quella piacevole estrosita considerata esclusivo appannaggio degli 
italiani. Quanto mai ovvia allora, e infatti puntualmente condivisa da molti viaggiatori, 
V’individuazione di un modello d’uomo ideale che fonda in sé caratteri italiani e tedeschi 
(per inciso, a conferma di quanto certe tipologie percettive siano ben radicate nei pil diversi 
livelli dell’ opinione pubblica, viene fatto di pensare ai grandi cartelloni pubblicitari che questo 
autunno reclamizzavano una nota marca di scarpe le cui doti derivavano, come suggeriva 
lo slogan, dal perfetto connubio di “design italiano e tecnologia tedesca”). 

Fra le cause della persistenza negli osservatori di giudizi predefiniti Visentin indica 
la scarsa propensione, da parte dei viaggiatori per diletto, a ripensamenti e aggiustamenti 
prospettici anche laddove la situazione lo richiederebbe, come nel caso, riportato solo da 
pochissimi autori, di ampie sacche di miseria nascoste dietro una manifesta opulenza di facciata 
proprio accanto a splendidi quartieri residenziali. 

Un altro tipo di motivazione a questo tipo di comportamento viene inoltre individuato 
nell’ottica spesso riduttiva con cui il viaggiatore borghese considera la storia dei popoli e 
delle nazioni, una storia che, secondo un’applicazione rovesciata della realta politica del 
suo tempo, gli appare come un lento ma inesorabile cammino verso la fusione in uno stato 
nazionale, in un processo di amalgama in cui identita e differenze sbiadiscono per comporsi 
in un contesto omogeneo e, tutto sommato, tale da poter essere pil comodamente colto nei 
suoi tratti essenziali. 

Ci viene poi fornita un’altra chiave di lettura dei rapporti intercorrenti fra i due paesi, 
quella che riguarda sia la presenza degli italiani in Germania e la considerazione in cui essi 
sono tenuti, che la disposizione dei tedeschi verso la societa e la cultura italiana in genere. 

Circa il primo aspetto, puo essere forse sufficientemente indicativo il titolo del capitolo 
che gli € stato appositamente riservato: “Un paese di ciarlatani - Gli italiani all’estero”. In 
esso leggiamo che il ritratto-tipo del lavoratore italiano in Germania é quello del suonatore 
d’organetto o di mandolino, gelataio 0 conduttore di animali ammaestrati, caldarrostaio, 
venditore di figurine 0 spazzacamino, per lo pill simpatico ma scarsamente affidabile. A 
proposito poi della massiccia presenza di operai, si nota che, soprattutto se provenienti dall’Italia 
centrale o meridionale, sono sempre pronti a ricorrere al coltello durante le liti. 

Quanto alla considerazione in cui é tenuta 1’Italia, anche qui puo bastare la citazione 
di una delle nostre locuzioni che, stando al giudizio dei viaggiatori italiani, sembrano essere 
fra le pil note ai tedeschi, quella del “dolce far niente”. 

Si puo allora riassumere col giudizio del Morandotti, un giornalista che effettud numerose 
corrispondenze dalla Germania sia prima che dopo la grande guerra, secondo il quale “amore 
senza stima si sarebbero potuti definire per gran tempo i sentimenti dei tedeschi verso gli 
italiani, e quelli degli italiani verso i tedeschi stima senza amore”. 

Questa la situazione agli inizi del nostro secolo; non ci resta che attendere che da un 
prossimo lavoro risulti se, e in che misura, i muri del pregiudizio e del sospetto reciproco 
possano oggi dirsi finalmente abbattuti. 


Olimpia Gargano, Universita degli Studi, Milano 


740 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


Vasco Pratolini, Cronache dal Giro d’Italia (maggio - giugno 1947). Milano: 
Claudio Lombardi Editore 1992. Pp. 136. 


Per la prima volta raccolti in volume gli articoli scritti da Pratolini per “Il Nuovo Corriere” 
di Firenze, il giornale per cui lo scrittore fiorentino fu corrispondente al seguito del Giro 
d'Italia del 1947. 

Fra le consuetudini del passato di cui dispiace la perdita c’é, nel settore giornalistico, 
quella che nel corso del Giro affidava a scrittori emergenti la stesura della cosiddetta “spalla 
di colore” da affiancare alla vera e propria cronaca sportiva, redatta invece dai giornalisti 
professionisti. Alle valutazioni tecniche degli specialisti del settore facevano cosi riscontro 
annotazioni a margine della gara e che tuttavia riuscivano graditissime sia all’appassionato 
di ciclismo, che grazie ad esse poteva ricostruire lo sfondo su cui collocare i propri eroi, 
che al lettore comune, come forse risulta pil evidente oggi che la pubblicazione di antologie 
di tali articoli sta conoscendo un momento di grande favore. 

Fra gli autori di questo particolare tipo di cronaca, accanto a quelli ricordati nell’ introdu- 
zione al volume e che solo recentemente sono stati segnalati in questo diverso ruolo 
all’attenzione del pil vasto pubblico, c’é da aggiungere Dino Buzzati, le cui cronache dal 
Giro vennero pubblicate gia nel 1981. Denominatore comune di molti di questi testi é, dicevamo, 
l’attenzione a quegli aspetti che potevano sfuggire al giornalista sportivo, ma che risultavano 
indispensabili, come dimostra oggi il loro intatto valore evocativo, per chi volesse pienamente 
intendere il contesto in cui prendeva forma una competizione cosi singolare per tempi e modalita 
di svolgimento. 

Nel 1947 il Giro d'Italia era alla sua trentesima edizione; le venticinque cronache raccolte 
nel volume coprono un percorso di 3800 km suddivisi in 19 tappe, con partenza e arrivo 
a Milano in uncircuito che toccava i principali centri della direttrice tirrenica prima e adriatica 
poi, i cui estremi erano rappresentati da Napoli e Foggia a sud, e Pieve di Cadore e 
(velocemente toccata da una gita oltre frontiera) Lugano a nord. 

Gli articoli sono formulati in tono di amichevole conversazione con i lettori, a cui l’autore 
Si rivolge con tono colloquiale invitandoli a scrivergli presso il giornale per eventuali domande 
su episodi del Giro o sui corridori. L’immediatezza del registro espressivo, caratteristica 
ricorrente nel Pratolini di quegli anni, é stata rispettata dall’editore che, come avverte in 
una breve nota introduttiva, ha riprodotto fedelmente gli articoli apparsi sul quotidiano fiorentino 
... forse fin troppo fedelmente, a giudicare da qualche qual ‘é e qualche altra evidente svista 
ortografica e di punteggiatura sulla cui eliminazione l’autore non avrebbe certo avuto da 
ridire. 

Con la pubblicazione, postuma, di questo volume si completa, come il suo titolo 
argutamente sembra suggerire, quel fortunato trittico di Cronache che proprio nel 1947 
segnarono una svolta nella produzione dell’allora trentaquattrenne scrittore fiorentino: é questo 
infatti l’anno di pubblicazione sia di Cronache di poveri amanti che di Cronaca familiare, 
entrambe pill mature conferme di quella vocazione letteraria di cui si erano gia avute prove 
in precedenti opere narrative (fra cui II quartiere, del ‘44), e in “Campo di Marte”, la rivista 
che fu punto di riferimento dell’ermetismo e che Pratolini aveva fondato nel 1938 insieme 
con Alfonso Gatto. Il poeta salernitano, che come Pratolini esercitava in quegli anni anche 
l’attivita di giornalista, viene citato nelle Cronache fra i cronisti del Giro. 

Alla fine degli anni Quaranta data anche il lungo soggiorno a Napoli di Pratolini, che 
nella citta partenopea frequentava il gruppo di giovani scrittori napoletani, fra cui Domenico 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 741 


Rea e Raffaele La Capria, come ricorda Anna Maria Ortese (a sua volta autrice di cronache 
ciclistiche recentemente pubblicate) in uno dei racconti compresi ne // mare non bagna Napoli, 
dove Pratolini “vagamente malinconico” siede davanti a una zuppiera fumante in casa di 
Rea. Napoli compare in un brevissimo accenno in una tappa del Giro, quanto basta per meritarle 
una veloce pennellata di colore: “...Alle mie spalle c’é Napoli coi suoi bassi e la sua dilaniata 
allegria. C’é quel ragazzo addormentato dalla fame sul marciapiede di via Toledo, coperto 
dei suoi stracci, col pezzo di pane duro dentro il berretto; c’é il folclore di Napoli, la sua 
secolare maledizione. ... ‘Ha vinciuto Coppi. Lascia fa’ Dio!’.” 

Nell’introduzione al volume si dice che nelle cronache degli scrittori - giornalisti la 
vera protagonista é la strada. Questo vale anche nel caso di Pratolini, non solo per le pause 
descrittive del paesaggio che si affiancano al resoconto dell’impresa sportiva, ma anche per 
l’attenzione dedicata agli innumerevoli tifosi che quelle strade animano con la loro presenza 
colorata e festante al passaggio dei corridori. Quando poi la strada é quella dei luoghi d’infanzia, 
alla rappresentazione si sovrappone il ricordo, e al ricordo la nostalgia: “Ecco Valdarno, 
ecco Val di Chiana, conosciute come il fondo delle mie tasche adolescenti, pieni di sassi 
rosa pescati nella Sieve, di ramarri inchiodati sotto il calcagno negli stradali assolati del 
Cortonese, di fionde, di figurine colorate, di giornali sportivi e dispense poliziesche. ... Ho 
buttato a fiume la mia malinconia insieme alla cicca della sigaretta.“ 

La connotazione neorealistica assegnata ai romanzi maggiori di Pratolini rischia forse 
di esercitare influenze indebite nell’ osservazione di un po’ tutti i suoi testi comparsi in quegli 
anni, ma quando si leggono storie come ad esempio quella di Corrieri, ciclista siciliano 
costantemente teso nello sforzo di assicurare alla sua famiglia lontana l’invio dei pacchi di 
viveri (una volta addirittura un maiale intero!) vinti nei traguardi volanti, non si pud fare 
a meno di ripensare ai giovani lavoratori dei quartieri fiorentini protagonisti della sua narrativa, 
al cui confronto il ciclista diventa anch’egli “operaio”, sia pure della bicicletta. 

Nonmancano qua e 1a riferimenti alle contemporanee vicende politiche, anche qui colte 
attraverso l’osservazione degli umori della folla, che variano col variare degli spazi geografici, 
andando ora a sostegno del “bianco” Bartali, ora del “rosso” Coppi; nella tappa a Roma, 
c’é l’occasione per un accenno a De Gasperi, colto all’uscita da Montecitorio dove con un 
gesto audace aveva appena scongiurato il pericolo di una crisi. 

L’ultimo capitolo raccoglie un ricordo autobiografico, di “un ragazZo povero, povero 
forse anche di fantasia”. Infatti, mentre gli adolescenti sognano “di diventare Sandokan e 
Montecristo, Lindbergh e Tunney” (anche le fantasie giovanili possono servire a datare 
un’epoca), il ragazzo Vasco sognava solo due cose: possedere un orologio e seguire il Giro. 
Il 24 maggio 1947, con un orologio al polso, partiva al seguito del Giro d'Italia. 


Olimpia Gargano, Universita degli Studi, Milano 


Innocente Bianconi. Diario d’America, a cura di Renato Martinoni. Locarno: 
Armando Dado Editore, 1994. Pp. 82. 


Snello, ma vivacissimo, questo libretto di ricordi di un ticinese “in Merica”, buttato gil 
rapidamente attorno al 1920, quando Bianconi era gia ritornato in patria e aveva aperto a 
Locarno una piccola officina meccanica. Pastore, calzolaio, arrotino ambulante (“moletta”) 
nelle valli del Luganese, senza studi (“mentre guardava le capre le vacche mi hanno mangiato 
ilibri”, p. 25), Bianconi era emigrato nel 1875 nel mondo ancora selvaggio della California 
e aveva finito per adattarsi a fare tanti mestieri, girovagando per il West, da San Francisco 


742 Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 


a Yuma a Prescott a Denver, tentando di afferrare per i capelli una fortuna che continuava 
a sfuggirgli. La sua é una via crucis descritta con il linguaggio scarno del contadino del 
Canton Ticino, una lingua, tuttavia, nella quale abbondano le contaminationes (dialetto, italiano 
e inglese) create dalle numerose esperienze personali. Vi affiorano, qua e 1a, talvolta non 
senza una certa pretesa, le citazioni dotte tratte da letture casuali (Dante, Manzoni, Burns, 
Benjamin Franklin), le quali attestano, tuttavia, il tentativo non del tutto “casuale” del self-made 
man di sfruttare il tempo libero per farsi una cultura. Non mancano, quindi, nell’autobiografia 
di Bianconi, in grazia di questo sforzo di autoelevazione, esempi pill specificatamente letterari, 
come quello delle apostrofi al suo “lettore” sconosciuto (“Ora ti dico o lettore”, p. 27; “Pensa 
lettore”, p. 29) o di riferimenti che si vorrebbero ricercati (“mademoiselle appetito nello 
stomaco fa un baccano d’inferno”, p. 32). 

Ricco di buon senso popolare, non privo di autoironia, colorito di massime e di aforismi 
che nascono dal terroir prealpino, questo monologo dell’emigrante felicemente ritornato 
in patria si legge tutto d’un fiato: ¢ davvero “memoria, viatico di una maturazione, ... documento 
didascalico”, come scrive Martinoni nell’introduzione. E non possiamo che condividere la 
scelta del curatore di darlo alle stampe senza alcuna interferenza, mettendo alla fine le note 
bibliografiche essenziali per lasciare al lettore il piacere di scoprire e di assaporare la vivacita 
e il ritmo del “parlato” ticinese che, come tutti i “parlati” non ha bisogno di regolari segni 
di interpunzione, di maiuscole o di aderenza a ogni tipo di cruscantismo o di aulicita per 
colpire nel segno con la parola giusta, in barba ad inevitabili idiotismi ed inesattezze 
ortografiche. 


Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Tonia Caterina Riviello, Acque d’Italia: immagini del tempo prenatale. Venezia: 
Edizioni del Leone, 1994. Pp. 72. 


“Paesini sperduti tra i colli. / Penisolette che si affacciano sul mare. / Promontori incantati 
nel tempo.” Tra le tante immagini che oggi circolano deil’Italia, questa é l’immagine che 
ci propone Tonia Riviello, un’italiana che vive e insegna negli Stati Uniti, ma che non ha 
evidentemente perduto la nostalgia delle sue origini. E questo ci conduce immediatamente 
ad un’ interrogazione oggi pitt che mai attuale, mentre nascono premi letterari specifici, mentre 
i critici e le giurie cominciano a sospettare che un premio sul “Viaggio in Italia” non sia 
esattamente un premio letterario. Che cosa é rimasto, si chiede al contrario lo specialista, 
di una tradizione di scrittura che ha percorso i secoli? Forse in questo squisito itinerario 
attraverso I’Italia e le sue “acque” si possono trovare risposte significative. 

Il “viaggio” di questa protagonista che, come tutti i buoni viaggiatori, racconta se stessa, 
inizia il 21 aprile di un anno che non é detto, come accade in molti racconti di viaggio, e 
si dipana, giorno dopo giorno, con una regolarita da fare invidia alle ferree regole del Misson, 
il quale, nella prefazione dell’edizione del 1702 al suo Nouveau voyage d’ Italie, ciinsegnava 
che il viaggiatore non deve lasciar passare giorno senza annotare diligentemente le sue 
impressioni. Come tutti i viaggi che siano tali, anche questo ha un itinerario: un itinerario 
che, come awveniva per i viaggiatori del Seicento, non tiene conto degli spostamenti tra una 
tappa e l’altra, e ruota attorno a “capoluoghi” che si profilano isolati in tutto il loro spessore. 
Ma proprio qui sta il primo elemento di quella “finzione odeporica” che ha improntato tutto 
il “genere” fin dalle sue origini e che nessuno ha ancora definito con sufficiente chiarezza: 
scrittura solo apparentemente ancorata alla sensazione immediata, all’esperienza diretta, 


Recensioni / Book Reviews / Comptes rendus 743 


all’incontro vissuto, il “viaggio” € sempre, in realta, prodotto d’invenzione in cui il fatto 
esistenziale diventa materia prima liberamente utilizzata in un processo di creazione 
completamente disancorato dai condizionamenti oggettivi e senza veri legami con la cronologia. 

Chi tentasse di ricostruire l’itinerario italiano di Tonia Riviello si troverebbe di fronte 
a difficolta insormontabili, che l’autrice non ha neppur cercato di nascondere: il 21 aprile 
a Roma, il 22 a Venezia, il 23 alle ore 20 ancora a Roma, il 24 a Verona, il 25 a Venezia, 
il 26 ad Alghero, il 27 a Termoli ... Pensiamo a scrittori anche recenti, recentissimi, a scrittori 
di grande originalita, che hanno narrato in forme molto poetiche ed allusive il loro “viaggio 
in Italia” senza poter superare l’itinerario, e ci chiediamo se quello di Tonia Riviello, cosi 
ossequioso delle forme tradizionali, non sia il modo pil moderno e insieme piu efficace di 
scrittura: un percorso che trasforma i “luoghi” in patrie ideali dello spirito, che ne coglie 
molto soggettivamente il messaggio in un procedere che non é pil’ veramente geografico 
e ne fa l’elemento scatenante dell’emozione poetica, senza che il peso corporeo di uno spazio 
Visitato possa soffocare il volo libero della fantasia. 

Questa é 1’Italia di Tonia Riviello, una patria di sensazioni “prenatali”, terra reale di 
luoghi d’invenzione che, al solo nominarli, ti trasportano in un universo di commozioni, 
nella dimensione tangibile e tutta immaginaria dell’anima. Itinerario apparente nella geografia 
e insieme processione nelle dissolvenze del paesaggio, Acque d’Italia é in realta un viaggio 
nella memoria e negli alti luoghi della cultura e dello spirito, un modo tutto carnale e terrestre 
di rappresentare i sentimenti, un commosso ritorno alle matrici dell’esistere, 14 dove esistere 
ed essere si confondono. 

E questo “viaggio in Italia”, che rimane fino in fondo tale, come se non vi fosse posto 
per l’invenzione, é il frutto meraviglioso di un’invenzione poetica che si dipana pagina dopo 
pagina in un lirismo di qualita eccezionale e che non lascia spazio a ricadute nella banalita. 
Un libro che non si puo non leggere tutto d’un fiato, da cui non si pud non farsi completamente 
coinvolgere. Un libro che ha ben meritato i premi letterari che ha raccolto e sarebbe stato 
degno anche di quegli altri—come il “Campiello”—che ha sfiorato. Un libro che ci propone, 
alla vigilia del terzo millennio, un modo—certamente irripetibile—di scrivere il “Nuovo 
viaggio d'Italia”. 


Emanuele Kanceff, Universita degli Studi, Torino 


Editorial Policy 


Annali d’Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its 
cultural context, to foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of 
interest to a large number of Italianists. Monographic in nature, the journal 
is receptive to a variety of topics, critical approaches, and theoretical 
perspectives. Each year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and 
contributions are welcome. The journal is issued in the fall of each year. 
Manuscripts should be submitted with a Mcintosh or IBM compatible disk 
and should be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. Authors 
should follow the MLA style for articles in English; articles in Italian 
should conform to the AdJ style sheet. For all communications concerning 
contributions, address the Editor, Annali d’Italianistica, The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 


Reviews & Notes 


This section occasionally publishes essays and review articles on topics 
treated in one of the previous volumes of Annali d’Italianistica. 


Italian Bookshelf 


Italian Bookshelf is edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Massimo Maggiari with 
the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Valeria Finucci, Albert 
N. Mancini, and John P. Welle. The purpose of Jtalian Bookshelf is to 
identify, review, and bring to the attention of Italianists recent studies on 
Italian literature and culture. /talian Bookshelf will cover the entire history 
of Italian literature. Ad/J will review books exclusively on the basis of their 
scholarly worth. To this purpose, junior and senior colleagues will be 
invited to collaborate without any consideration to academic affiliation and 
with an open attitude toward critical approaches. Contributions to this 
section are solicited. Scholars who intend to contribute are encouraged to 
contact the editors or one of the section’s permanent collaborators. Book 
reviews, to be submitted with a Mcintosh or IBM compatible disk, should 
be sent to: The Editor, Annali d’italianistica, 141 Dey Hall, UNC-CH, 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 


Subscriptions 


Rates for U.S.A. and Canada as of January 1994: Individuals $15; 
Institutions $29; Agencies $27. Rates for countries outside North America: 
Individuals $18; Institutions $33; Agencies $30. Publication and shipping 
date: December of every year. Back issues: add $3. Checks, in U.S. currency, 
should be made payable to Annali d’Italianistica. 


AdI 1998 
Cultural Studies 


Annali d’italianistica will devote its 1998 issue to Italian cultural studies. 
Since the early 1970s, the focus of criticism has gradually shifted from what is 
generally referred to as “high art” or “serious literature” to the larger field of 
cultural production, which includes areas of inquiry traditionally reserved for 
specialists in the social sciences: sociology, psychology, anthropology, 
economics, political science, and history. In a broad sense, cultural studies are 
concerned with the idea systems or ideologies that motivate the production and 
marketing of symbolic goods or, in other words, the ways through which belief 
is produced through culture. 

Antonio Gramsci is the Italian thinker whose ideas are seminal in this 
regard. In fact, the ground-breaking studies of Foucault, Bourdieu, Said, and 
Greenblatt, among others, all depend in part on thoughts found in Gramsci’s 
Quaderni dal carcere, mainly on the idea that the formal properties of art and 
literature, regardless of their level of expression, are socially and historically 
constituted. The thinkers mentioned above follow Gramsci also in their belief 
that the study of culture concerns hegemonic (or counter-hegemonic) processes, 
within which social groups seek to establish and preserve their identities, and 
that, in the final analysis, cultural production reflects the control, power, or 
dominance one social group exerts over another. The materials of culture, 
therefore, span many different disciplines and methodological and ideological 
perspectives, since they concern not only specific practices geared to the 
production of artistic goods, but also values, social systems, symbolic codes, 
secular and religious rituals, as well as, in our time, the different enterprises 
dealing with consciousness and consent. 

In view of these concerns, this issue’s guest editor, Robert Dombroski, and 
the journal’s editor, Dino S. Cervigni, call for articles, interdisciplinary or 
transdisciplinary in nature, that explore the relationship between the symbolic 
and material domains of cultural production primarily in the twentieth century: 
popular beliefs and culture; gender and sexuality; race, ethnicity, national 
identity, colonialism and post-colonialism; fashion, advertising, film, television, 
as well as aesthetics, cultural politics, and the relation of high and low cultures. 

Prospective contributors may contact either editor. Contributions are due in 
March of 1998. The volume will appear in the fall of the same year. 


Robert Dombroski Dino S. Cervigni 

CUNY Graduate School Annali d’italianistica 

33 West 42nd St. UNC-Chapel Hill, CB # 3170 
New York, NY 10036 Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
E-mail: 


Dombrosk @ConnVM.UConn.Edu E-mail: Dino_Cervigni.unc.edu 


furl 


ehh ep i" a rl 
Bt tty is . 


go grt. 
‘ 

’ N; ther, 
lee eeatee sores 
‘ re 

4, 





