






d'Ttalianistica 


Volume 19, 2001, 
Literature, Criticism, 
and Ethics 









Edited by 
Dino S. Cervigni 








; Min 





Adl 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
http://www. ibiblio.org/annali e-mail: <annali@metalab.unc.edu> 


EDITOR 

Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
ASSOCIATE EDITOR 

Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 

ADVISORY BOARD 

Andrea Battistini, Universita degli Studi di Bologna 

Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 

Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Franco Fido, Harvard University 

Valeria Finucci, Duke University 

John Gatt-Rutter, La Trobe University (Melbourne) 

Walter Geerts, Universiteit Antwerpen 

Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 

Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Edoardo A. Lébano, /ndiana University 

Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 

Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 

Olimpia Pelosi, SUN Y-A/bany 

Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 

Paolo Valesio, Yale University 

Aldo Vallone, Universita degli Studi di Napoli 

Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 

Assistant Editor 

Anne Tordi, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


© 2001 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Editorial Policy 


Annali d'ltalianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its 
cultural context, to foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of interest to 
a large number of Italianists. Monographic in nature, the journal is receptive to 
a variety of topics, critical approaches, and theoretical perspectives. Each 
year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and contributions are welcome. 
The journal is issued in the fall of each year. Manuscripts should be submitted 
on diskette and should be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. 
Authors should follow the MLA style for articles in English; articles in Italian 
should conform to the Ad/ style sheet. Visit the journal’s website 
(www. ibiblio.org/annali) for further information on the contributions’ style. 
For all communications concerning contributions, address the Editor, Annali 
d'Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-3170, or post <annali(@metalab.unc.edu>. 


Notes & Reviews 
This section occasionally publishes essays and review articles on topics treated 
in one of the previous volumes of Annali d'Italianistica. 


Italian Bookshelf 
Italian Bookshelf is edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the 
collaboration of Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Albert N. 
Mancini, Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 
The purpose of /talian Bookshelf is to identify, review, and bring to the 
attention of Italianists recent studies on Italian literature and culture. /talian 
Bookshelf will cover the entire history of Italian literature. 4d/ will review 
books exclusively on the basis of their scholarly worth. To this purpose, junior 
and senior colleagues will be invited to collaborate without any consideration 
to academic affiliation and with an open attitude toward critical approaches. 
Contributions to this section are solicited. Scholars who intend to contribute 
are encouraged to contact the editors or one of the section’s permanent 
collaborators. Book reviews, to be submitted on diskette, should be sent to the 
Editor. For inquiries post <annali(@metalab.unc.edu>. 

The Journal’s Website: www. ibiblio.org/annali 
The tables of contents of all issues, including the list of all book reviews, are 
available online. As of volume 16 (1998), each issue’s introductory essay and 
all book reviews are available online with their full texts. 


THIS VOLUME IS DEDICATED 
TO 
THE VICTIMS OF SEPTEMBER 11, 2001, 
& 
TO 
ALL PEOPLE OF GOOD WILL 


ALL OVER THE WORLD 


103 
119 


137 


153 


171 


189 


215 


235 


245 


255 


269 


285 


303 


327 


ANNALI D’ITALIANISTICA 
Volume 19, 2001 


LITERATURE CRITICISM ETHICS 


Dino S. Cervigni, Literature Criticism Ethics: 

An Introductory Essay with Some Personal Reflections 
Olivia Holmes, Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 
Brenda Deen Schildgen, Dante’s Utopian Political Vision, 

the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 
Massimo Lollini, Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 
Charles Klopp, 7he Return of the Spiritual, with a Note on the Fiction 

of Bufalino, Tabucchi, and Celati 
Alberto Casadei, La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 
Norma Bouchard, Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics 

of Postmodernist Storytelling 
Steven Shankman, Ethics, Transcendence, and the Other: 

Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 
Angela M. Jeannet, A Matter of Injustice: 

Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 
Thomas E. Peterson, The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s ‘““Ragioni 

d’una poesia” 

Nicoletta Pireddu, Zowards a Poet(h)ics of techné: Primo Levi and 

Daniele Del Giudice 
Robert S. C. Gordon, How Much Home Does a Person Need? 

Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 
Sergio Parussa, Literature in Question: Figuring Auschwitz and 

Redefining Literature in Post-Holocaust Theatre 
Giancarlo Gaeta, La scelta delle “cose migliori”. 

Intellettuali e societa di massa secondo Nicola Chiaromonte 
Alessandro Montani, Manganelli, ovvero |’etica dell’intelligenza 
Francesca Parmeggiani, Morselli e il tempo 
Giancarlo Lombardi, Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: 

Questions of Accountability in the Cinema of the stragi di stato 
Eugene TeSelle, Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: 

A Retrospective Analysis 


Notes & Reviews 


John Butcher, Le u/time poesie di Eugenio Montale. 
Intervista ad Andrea Zanzotto 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 
Edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the collaboration of 
Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Albert N. Mancini, 
Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 


333 Paolo Cherchi. L'alambicco in biblioteca: distillati rari. Ed. Francesco Guardiani 
and Emilio Speciale. Il Portico, Collana diretta da Antonio Piromalli, 116. Ravenna: 
Longo, 2000. (Gustavo Costa) 

335 Massimo Lollini. // vuoto della forma: scrittura, testimonianza e verita. Genova: 
Marietti, 2001. (Norma Bouchard) 

339 Thomas E. Peterson. The Rose in Contemporary Italian Poetry. Gainesville: UP of 
Florida, 2000. (Viktor Berber) 

341 Florinda M. Iannace, ed. Maria Vergine nella letteratura italiana. Stony Brook, 
NY: Forum , 2000. (Cristina Mazzoni) 

343 Letizia Panizza and Sharon Wood, eds. A History of Women’s Writing in Italy. 
Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2000. (Carol Lazzaro-Weis) 

347 Romano Luperini e Pietro Cataldi. La scrittura e l’interpretazione. Storia della 
letteratura italiana nel quadro della civilta e della letteratura dell'’Occidente. Vol. 3: Dal 
Naturalismo al Postmoderno, Tomi I-II. Palermo: Palumbo, 1999. (John Gatt-Rutter) 
350 Robert Hollander. Dante. A Life in Works. New Haven: Yale UP, 2001. (Bruno 
Ferraro) 

352 Patrick Boyde. Human Vices and Human Worth in Dante's Comedy. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 2000. (Bruno Ferraro) 

354 Eugenio L. Giusti. Dall’amore cortese alla comprensione. Il viaggio ideologico di 
Giovanni Boccaccio dalla Caccia di Diana al Decameron. Studi e ricerche. Milano: Led — 
Edizioni Universitarie di Lettere Economia Diritto, 1999. (Teresa Nocita) 

357 Juliann Vitullo. The Chivalric Epic in Medieval Italy. Gainesville: UP of Florida, 
2000. (Norma Bouchard) 

359 Sara Sturm-Maddox. Ronsard, Petrarch, and the Amours. Gainesville: U P of 
Florida, 1999. (Maria Galli Stampino) 

361 Cecil Grayson. Studi su Leon Battista Alberti. Ed. Paola Claut. Firenze: Olschki, 
1998. (Marcus Frings) 

363 Julia M. Kisacky. Magic in Boiardo and Ariosto. Studies in Italian Culture. 
Literature in History 25. New York: Peter Lang, 2000. (Monica Azzolini) 

366 Armando Maggi. /dentita e impresa rinascimentale. Ravenna: Longo, 1998. 
(Dorigen Caldwell) 

369 Deborah Parker. Bronzino: Renaissance Painter as Poet. Cambridge: Cambridge 
UP, 2000. (Domenico Zanré) 

372 Giraldi Cinzio, Giovambattista. Discorso dei romanzi. Ed. Laura Benedetti, 
Giuseppe Monorchio, and Enrico Musacchio. Bologna: Millennium, 1999. (Maria Galli 
Stampino) 

374 Mark W. Roskill. Dolce’'s Aretino and Venetian Art Theory of the Cinquecento. 
Toronto: Toronto UP, 2000. (Bruno Ferraro) 

375 Paolo Cherchi. La metamorfosi dell’'Adone. Longo: Ravenna, 1996. (Thomas E. 
Mussio) 


379 Pietro Verri. “Manoscritto” per Teresa. Seconda edizione a cura di Gennaro 
Barbarisi. Milano: Edizioni Universitarie di Lettere Economia Diritto, 1999. (Luciano 
Parisi) 

381 Giorgio Cavallini. Torna azzurro il sereno. Nuovi studi leopardiani. Roma: Bulzoni, 
1999. (Piero Garofalo) 

383 Giacomo Leopardi poeta e filosofo: atti del convegno dell’Istituto Italiano di 
Cultura, New York, 31 marzo-1 aprile 1998. A cura di Alessandro Carrerra. Firenze: 
Cadmo, 1999. (Piero Garofalo) 

386 Verina R. Jones and Anna Laura Lepschy, eds. With a Pen in Her Hand: Women 
and Writing in the Nineteenth Century and Beyond. Leeds (UK): Society for Italian 
Studies, 2000. (Norma Bouchard) 

389 Roberto M. Dainotto. Place in Literature: Regions, Culture, Communities. Ithaca: 
Cornell UP, 2000. (Norma Bouchard) 

390 Stephen Gundle. Between Hollywood and Moscow: The Italian Communists and the 
Challenge of Mass Culture, 1943-1991. Durham: Duke UP, 2000. (Norma Bouchard) 
393 La “difficile Musa” di Aldo Palazzeschi: indagini, accertamenti testuali, carte 
inedite. A cura di Gino Tellini, “Studi italiani” XI 1-2 (1999). (Francesca Parmeggiani) 
395 William Hope. Curzio Malaparte: The Narrative Contract Strained. Market 
Harborough, U.K.: Troubadour, 2000. (John Gatt-Rutter) 

398 Roberto Pazzi, ed. L'immaginario contemporaneo. Atti del Convegno letterario 
internazionale, Ferrara, 21-23 maggio 1999. Biblioteca dell’“*Archivum Romanicum”. 
Serie 1: Storia, Letteratura, Paleografia. 291. Olschki Editore. 2000. (John Gatt-Rutter) 
401 Rebecca West. Gianni Celati: The Craft of Everyday Storytelling. Toronto: U of 
Toronto P, 2000. (Norma Bouchard) 

404 Giose Rimanelli e Enrico Cestari. Discorso con I'altro. Salo, la guerra civile e 
l'Italia del dopoguerra. Milano: Mursia, 2000. (Antonio Vitti) 

405 Gastone Venturelli. Pensieri linguistici di Giovanni Pascoli con un glossario degli 
elementi barghigiani della sua poesia. Firenze: Accademia della Crusca, 2000. (Matteo 
Pedroni) 

408 Franco Zangrilli. // bestiario di Pirandello. Metauro Edizioni, 2001. (Simona 
Wright) 

411 Franco Zangrilli. Pirandello nell’America latina. Fiesole: Cadmo, 2001. (Simona 
Wright) 

414 Howard Curle and Stephen Snyder. Vittorio De Sica: Contemporary Perspectives. 
U of Toronto P, 2000. (William Van Watson) 

417 Rebecca West, ed. Pagina Pellicola Pratica: studi sul cinema italiano. Ravenna: 
Longo Editore, 2000. (Norma Bouchard) 

420 Minima theatralia. A cura di Yuri Brunello e Roberto Trovato. Genova: De Ferrari 
Editore, 2000. (Maria Crovetto) 

423 Flaminio Di Biagi. Sotto |’Arco di Tito: Le farfalle di Gozzano. Trento: La Finestra, 
1999. (John Gatt-Rutter) 

425 Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa. Cento anni dalla nascita, quaranta dal 
Gattopardo. Atti del convegno di Palermo, 12-14 dicembre 1996, a cura di Francesco 
Orlando. Palermo: Citta di Palermo-Assessorato alla cultura, 1999. (Emanuele Cutinelli- 
Réndina) 

426 Antonio Saccone. “La trincea avanzata” e “la citta dei conquistatori”. Futurismo e 
modernita. Napoli: Liguori, 2000. (Daniela La Penna) 


430 Eugenio Montale: Selected Poems. Ed. George Talbot. Dublin: Belfield Italian 
Library, 2000. (Paola Sica) 

433 Walter Valeri, ed. Franca Rame. A Woman on Stage. West Lafayette, IN: 
Bordighera, 2000. (Daniela Cavallaro) 

435 Rodica Diaconescu-Blumenfeld and Ada Testaferri, eds. 7he Pleasure of Writing. 
Critical Essays on Dacia Maraini. W. Lafayette: Purdue UP, 2000. (Cinzia Di Giulio) 
438 Vivienne Suvini-Hand. Mirage and Camouflage. Hiding behind Hermeticism in 
Ungaretti's L’ Allegria. Leicester: Troubador, 2000. (Daniela La Penna) 

441 Angela M. Jeannet. Under the Radiant Sun and the Crescent Moon: Italo Calvino’s 
Storytelling. U of Toronto P, 2000. (Charlotte Ross) 

444 Enzo Leopardi. L 'inganno della Rosa. The Deception of the Rosa. Trans. and introd. 
Gareth McCutchan. Market Harborough: Troubador, 1999. (Florian Mussgnug) 

446 Esperienze letterarie [Cesare Pavese| 25: 3-4 (luglio-dicembre 2000). Direttore 
Marco Santoro. Pisa: Istituti poligrafici internazionali. (Sergio Ferrarese) 

449 Fabio De Agostini. La deriva di Paola K. Roma: Arlem editore, 2000. (Gaetana 
Marrone) 

451 Gloria Italiano. Parole A buon rendere: ovvero I|’invasione dei termini anglo- 
italiani. Firenze: Cadmo, 1999. (V. Louise Katainen) 

454 GianRenzo P. Clivio and Marcel Danesi. The Sounds, Forms, and Uses of Italian: 
An Introduction to Italian Linguistics. Toronto: UP, 2000. (Janice Aski) 


456 Brief Notices. Edited by Anne Tordi. 


Cecchetti, Giovanni. Contrappunti / Counterpoiuts. Ed. Raymond Petrillo. Introd. Giose 
Rimanelli. Studies in Southern Italian and Italian/American Culture 9. New York: Peter 
Lang, 1997. 

Di Pasquale, Emanuel. 7he Silver Lake Love Poems. Via Folios 21. Lafayette, IN: 
Bordighera, 2000. 

Gioseffi, Daniela. Going On. Poems. Via Folios 23. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2001. 
Lima, Robert. Sardinia. / Sardegna. Via Folios 24. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2002. 
Mitteilungen des Studiengangs Deutsch-Italienisch Studien / Studi italo-tedeschi 4 
(Dezember 2000). 

Musa da Calice, Romeo. La /una sul salice: racconto di nonna Zibetta. / The Moon on 
the Willow Tree: The Tale of Nonna Zibetta. Trans. and introd. Adelia V. Williams. 
Crossings 8. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2000. 

Pascoli, Giovanni. Poemi conviviali / Gastmahlgedichte. Italienisch-Deutsch Ausgabe 
Ubersetzt und mit einem Nachwort von Willi Hirdt. Tiibingen: Stauffenburg, 2000. 
-Ricci, Giovanni R. L’interpretazione rimossa. I primi due versi del ‘“Contrasto” di 
Cielo d’Alcamo. | quaderni di gazebo 3. Firenze: Gazebo, 1999. 

Salerno, Joe. Song of the Tulip Tree / La canzone della magnolia. Ital. trans. Emanuel di 
Pasquale. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 1999. 

Stefanile, Felix. The Country of Absence. Poems and an Essay. Via Folios 18. Lafayette, 
IN: Bordighera, 2000. 

Ugo Facco De Lagarda (1896-1982). La vocazione inquieta di uno scrittore veneziano. 
Atti del convegno, Venezia 7-8 novembre 1997. Ed. Alessandro Scarsella. Miscellanea 
marciana 14 (1999). Venezia: Biblioteca nazionale marciana, 2000. 


Dino S. Cervigni' 





Literature Criticism Ethics: 
An Introductory Essay with Some Personal Reflections 


I began writing this essay on September 10, 2001. I returned to it on the morning of the 
following day, September 11, when my wife called me from her office, telling me 
frantically to turn the TV on. For the next several hours, I followed on the screen what 
Journalists immediately called the most tragic and disastrous military attack on the 
United States of America since Pearl Harbor in 1941. As I, together with all people of 
good will, mourn and pray for the countless victims of such a horrific tragedy and 
condemn all forms of violence for whatever purpose and cause, I have also become 
convinced, more so than ever before, of the ethical imperative incumbent upon all 
people, individually and collectively, and of the special privilege and duty befalling all of 
us, as educators, to become aware of its far-reaching implications in all aspects of our 
profession. I also invite all of you to work for peace and join me ina sincere prayer for 
peace: a deeply felt invocation addressed to the Almighty, each other, and the entire 
world community, best expressed in the following words of the Bible: “[...] pax in terra 
hominibus bonae voluntatis” (“[...] peace on earth to people of good will” Luke 2:14). 


1. Literature Criticism Ethics: The Ethical Imperative? 
This 2001 issue of Annali d’italianistica, devoted to the study of the 


| The essays’ summaries that appear in this introduction are mostly written by the authors 
themselves or are drawn from their contributions. I would like to thank all of them for 
making this issue possible. 

: Except the cases in which a philosopher distinguishes, for specific reasons, between 
ethics and moral, the two terms are synonyms in both Italian and English: “[...] 2. ethics. 
(used with a sing. verb). The study of the general nature of morals and of the specific 
moral choices to be made by a person; moral philosophy. 3. ethics. (used with a sing. or 
pl. verb) The rules of standards governing the conduct of a person or the members of a 
profession: medical ethics. [... from Greek éthikos, ethical, from éthos, character.]” 
“moral [...] adj. 1. Of or concerned with the judgment of the goodness or badness of 
human action and character [...]. 2. Teaching or exhibiting goodness or correctness of 
character and behavior [...]. 3. Conforming to standards of what is right or just in 
behavior: virtuous: a moral life. 4. Arising from conscience or the sense of right or 
wrong: a moral obligation. {...] — moral n. [...] 3. morals. Rules or habits of conduct, 
especially of sexual conduct, with reference to standards of right and wrong [...]. [Middle 
English, from Old French, from Lat. moralis, from mos, mor-, custom.]” (The American 
Heritage Dictionary) “Moral philosophy (or ethics)” (The Oxford Companion to 
Philosophy 940; 251; 587-91). “etica. [...] s. f. 7 (filos.) Parte della filosofia che studia 1 
problemi e i valori connessi all’agire umano [...]. 2 Insieme delle norme di condotta 
pubblica e privata seguite da una persona o da un gruppo di persone [...].” “morale. [...] 
s. f. J Parte della filosofia che studia i problemi relativi alla condotta dell’uomo. SIN. 
Etica. 2 Complesso di consuetudini e norme che regolano la vita pubblica e privata [...]” 
(lo Zingarelli). 


Annali d’Italianistica 19 (2001) 


8 Dino S. Cervigni 


interconnections of literature, criticism, and ethics, is the most challenging of the 
journal’s nineteen monographic volumes published thus far. All of us easily 
comprehend the reasons of this great challenge. It is due neither to literature nor 
the practice of criticism, for we, as scholars of literature and practitioners of 
various critical approaches, always accept, even welcome, the difficulties arising 
from our scholarly investigations; rather, it is due to the third dimension added 
by the 2001 issue of Ad/, to the reciprocal interplay of literature and criticism, 
namely, ethics. The study of the ethical implications connected with the analysis 
of literature, the practice of criticism, and our profession as educators, in fact, 
makes most of us feel somewhat uneasy, just as, or even more so than, the study 
of the sacred and religious aspects of literature and poetry does.> 

And yet, as people who live in a community and depend on human society, 
we cannot escape the ethical issue. Simply stated, ethics concerns everything we 
do as humans, as can be easily understood even from the term’s strict 
etymological explanation, whether we employ the one derived from Greek 
(ethics < éthos) or from Latin (moral < mos, moris), both terms connoting the 
“custom,” “habit,” and “habitual character” of people. Any attempt at placing 
ourselves outside or beyond the ethical sphere, therefore, would be tantamount to 
situating ourselves outside or even above the human community. The question, 
nevertheless, remains whether the ethical issue that confronts all of us every day 
of our lives, is immanent to our nature as individuals and to the human 
community within which we live, or, rather, whether this ethical issue transcends 
each and all of us because it comes from outside or above us; or, also, whether it 
originates in each and all of us, individually and collectively, while also finding 
its superior or ultimate sanction outside each and all of us, in the supernatural 
and divine.* 

The interplay of literature, criticism, and ethics has always been present, 
albeit in varying degrees, in Italy’s literary culture, since its medieval 
beginnings, rooted in the Western ancient and Judeo-Christian traditions, until 
contemporary times, during which we have experienced an explosion and 
implosion of —isms, whose dizzying effects have illumined a few of us, alienated 
several, and confused many. 

Then, today, deeply shaken by the tragedy that has affected the United 
States of America and the civilized world, we are forced to reflect upon our role 


3 To illustrate the uncomfortable sense one may experience when confronted by the 
ethical issue, I cannot but refer to the anecdote told by a Spanish scholar, Bandera, 
dealing with the sacred in The Poem of the Cid. The distinguished scholar to whom 
Bandera had submitted his manuscript could not help feeling a form of peculiar allergy 
vis-a-vis the approach to the sacred pursued by Bandera (“Esta cosa me da alergia. No lo 
puedo remediar’ 1). 

4 For the history of ethics, here is but a brief bibliographical list: Brinton; MacIntyre; 
pertinent entries in The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay 9 


as educators and scholars and to understand the connections inextricably linking 
the artistic product, its critical assessment, and the moral issue inseparable from 
all human undertakings. 

From an historical perspective, ethics, however differently formulated, has 
always played a constant and fundamental role in all critical endeavors. In this 
regard Wayne C. Booth writes: “Of all the possible critical responses to poetry, 
the one with the most sustained written tradition is the question, ‘Will the 
experience of knowing this poem be good for me or my society?’” (384). 
Booth’s moral-critical question presupposes the moral-critic’s ability to probe 
into the ethical nature of the literary product itself. 

While undergoing revisions and attacks from Plato to modern times, ethical 
criticism, nevertheless, all but disappeared in scholarly literature from the 
Positivist movement of the late 19" and early 20" centuries until recently. Then, 
a few decades ago, the ethical debate suddenly re-emerged, perhaps in 
connection with the rise of feminist and ethnic studies, the investigations into the 
role of the literary canon, and/or the renewed interest in moral concerns and 
issues in general. 

In nearly two decades of scholarly publishing, Ad/ has already investigated 
many of the topics pertaining to ethical concerns in literature, from feminist 
studies (Ad/J 7 [1989]) and mystical writings by women (13 [1995]) to 
autobiography (4 [1986]), anthropological approaches to literature (15 [1997]), 
the modern and the postmodern (9 [1991]), and cultural studies (16 [1998]).> By 
devoting its 2001 issue specifically to the interplay of literature, criticism, and 
ethics, Ad/ intends to focus directly on the role of the ethical issue in the writing 
and reading of literature: in brief, the function of what we can call ethical 
hermeneutics. Steeped in the Judeo-Christian and ancient classical traditions 
throughout its historical development, Italy’s literary culture may be viewed as a 
continuous debate on the dignity of human beings, their duty in society, and their 
lives’ ultimate purpose. One only needs to recall, at the beginning of Italy’s 
cultural history, Saint Francis’s Cantico delle creature and, very recently, 
Roberto Benigni’s reflection on life’s beauty and tragedy in La vita é bella. It is 
a well-known fact that for Dante Alighieri, relying on Aristotle and Christian 
writers and philosophers, ethics played a preeminent role in all speculative as 


5 The introduction to the 1991 issue of Ad/ and its many essays, devoted to the modern 
and postmodern, may be useful to the reader who seeks to understand the notion of the 
postmodern in relation to Italy. The study of ethics within the notion of postmodernity is 
a hotly debated issue, whith sharp criticisms coming from all sides: those who believe in 
an ethics of postmodernity (e.g., Wyschogrod), those who believe in the individual’s 
capability of “inventing right and wrong,” and yet maintain the possibility of a “secular 
religion” (e.g., Mackie), and those who accuse postmodern theories of what they perceive 
as the moral decay of our time (e.g., Makolkin). I have found the most balanced positions 
in authors I would characterize as Christian thinkers (MacIntyre; Desmond). | refer to 
these authors for a bibliography on the subject matter. 


10 Dino S. Cervigni 


well as practical endeavors (Convivio 2:14). Nonetheless, the ethical concerns 
underlying most, if not the whole, of Italy’s literary culture came under attack 
during Italy’s fairly recent history, likely because of Croce’s idealism as well as 
other, more difficult to determine, indigenous or mostly foreign —isms. More 
recently, the writings of some contemporary theoreticians, such as Lévinas, 
Ricoeur, Derrida, Foucault, etc., have unquestionably offered some impetus to 
the resurgence of contemporary ethical investigations. In the January 1999 issue 
of PMLA on literature and ethics, for instance, these contemporoary thinkers 
offered most of the theoretical framework for the contributors’ essays. At the 
same time, one finds it difficult to accept the notion that only those 20"-century 
thinkers mentioned above can provide a valid ground for current inquiries into 
ethical concerns. One cannot but hope, therefore, that Italy’s literary culture, 
with its strong attachment to its pluri-millenary tradition, may offer an 
appropriate and balanced ground for inquiries into the role of ethical 
hermeneutics. Unquestionably, the essays of young and senior scholars who have 
responded to my invitation and have made this issue possible can help all of us 
reflect on the multiple relationships of literature, criticism, and ethics, and 
especially on the moral imperative that falls upon all of us. 


2. A Forgotten Harmony: The Medieval Concordance of Esse, Verum, et 
Pulchrum 

Italy’s literary culture prides itself on a pedigree of the highest spirituality, 
religiosity, and ethical concern. In the so-called “Cantico delle creature,” or 
‘“Laudes creaturarum,” often viewed as the first poetic text of Italian literature, 
Saint Francis invites man to be in harmony with God, 


Altissimu, onnipotente, bon Signore, 
tue so’ le laude, la gloria e l’honore et onne benedictione. 


nature, 
Laudato sie, mi’ Signore, cum tucte le tue creature, 
and one another, 


Laudato si’, mi Signore, per quelli ke perdonano per lo tuo amore 
e sostengo infirmitate et tribulatione. 
Beati quelli ke *| sosterranno in pace, 
ka da te, Altissimo, sirano incoronati. 
(vv. 1-2; 5; 25-26, Antologia della poesia italiana \:22-24) 


In fact, in medieval times, not just saints and poets like Saint Francis, but also 
philosophers and theologians like Saint Thomas proclaim, in the words of 
Umberto Eco, 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay 1\\ 


that God was being, goodness, and beauty, and that things participated in these attributes. 
(The Aesthetics of Thomas Aquinas 29)6 


Striking as it may sound to our contemporary way of thinking, Saint Thomas 
even suggests that humans, in pursuing being, pursue not only the good and the 
beautiful but also peace: 


[...] appetitum terminari ad bonum et pacem et pulchrum, non est eum terminari in 
diversa. Ex hoc enim ipso quod aliquid appetit bonum, appetit simul et pulchrum et 
pacem [...]. Unde quicumque appetit bonum, appetic hoc ipso pulchrum. 
([...] if appetite terminates in good and peace and the beautiful, this does not mean that it 
terminates in different goals. By the very fact of tending to good, a thing at the same time 
tends to the beautiful and to peace [...]. So anyone who desires the good, by that very fact 
desires the beautiful.) 

(De veritate 22, | ad 12; qtd. Eco 33) 


The identity of being with the good, the beautiful, and the peaceful eliminated 
necessarily any breach between art and morality, therefore establishing an ideal 
view of reality, both uncreated and created, and of all human activities, 
formulated metaphysically, ethically, and aesthetically.’ 

Eco reminds us, nevertheless, that Saint Thomas “was devaluing the modus 
poeticus’’; therefore, almost as a consequence, “the poets themselves evaded his 
intellectual influence; they initiated a new, mystical approach to poetic texts, a 
new way of reading which, through various avatars, was to survive down to our 
times.” Therefore, while sharing the same “unified world view” characteristic of 
Saint Thomas’s philosophy, Dante proposed a way of writing and reading poetry 
as “‘a new instance of prophetical writing [...] endowed with spiritual senses just 
as the scriptures are” (162). 

Fundamentally in agreement with Scholastic philosophy and_ theology, 
Dante presents himself, first and foremost, as the poet of rectitude, seeking to 
view the whole of humankind and history from this ethical and poetic 
perspective. In this issue’s first essay, “Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic 
Choice,” Olivia Holmes argues that, in the Commedia and other works as well, 
Dante figures the good life as the right road, and he implicitly represents himself 
as a version of Hercules in bivio, choosing between virtue and vice. Drawing on 
classical, biblical, and romance sources, Dante conflates imagery connected with 


6 | refer the reader to Eco’s book for an in-depth analysis of these issues and further 
bibliography. 

7 The Old and New Testaments add another transcendental, i.e., justice, to those 
mentioned above: God and His Son, Christ, provide peace and justice to all people of 
good will (see pertinent entries in Vocabulaire de théologie biblique). For the identity of 
justice with rectitude (“rectitudo actus”), see St. Thomas 1-2 q. 21 3c: q. 46 7 ad 2; etc. 


12 Dino S. Cervigni 


the voyage and the erotic choice: the two roads are viewed also as two ladies, 
and the downward pull of the vicious lifestyle is figured as an act of seduction. 
Dante’s allegory is deeply layered, and the relation between the two ways and 
the two women (and thus between the individual’s basic options) turns out also 
to be not one of strict opposition but rather of continuity and hierarchy: the 
protagonist passes by way of one lady to attain the other. The depiction of ethics 
as a choice between contradictory alternatives, Holmes argues, is ultimately 
resolved synthetically so that dualism is overcome and binary oppositions 
become progressive continuities. 

Thus viewed, the ethical issue affects every individual, Everyman, since 
every one experiences some form of smarrimento, loss, and fault in the pursuit 
of the truly good, both individually and collectively. In fact, in Dante the 
individual’s pursuit of the good is always situated within the collective and 
universal context of the whole of humankind in its past, present, and future 
history. In her essay entitled “Dante’s Utopian Political Vision, the Roman 
Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans,” Brenda Deen Schildgen focuses not so 
much on Dante’s politico-ethical vision of the Empire but rather on the eternal 
destiny of those ancient spirits who either lived before Christ or lived after Him, 
but did not know Him. Dante accepted the Church Fathers’ idea that the Roman 
Empire was chosen providentially for the unfolding of Christ’s Redemption and 
humankind’s salvation (Par. 6-7). In his attempt to see Divine Providence as 
history’s guide, Dante chose to condemn the ancient poets’ negative view of 
history, replacing it with his own visionary theory of a universal empire 
simultaneously and independently governed by a spiritual guide and a secular 
leader. Schildgen argues that Dante confined the greatest poets of antiquity, of 
whom he made himself a joyful associate, to Limbo because of their political 
blindness; at the same time, he specifically singled out for salvation other 
Romans or ancient spirits whom he made co-partners in his own vision. Dante’s 
utopian political vision put faith in a history guided by Divine Providence, 
whereas, in reading his great literary forebears, he recognized that they did not 
share this hope. 

Apart from their specific readings, these two essays on Dante bear out two 
principal points: first, Christianity’s view that God’s will to save all people is, at 
the same time, true and mysterious; and, second, every indvividual and the entire 
human community are charged with an ethical imperative, planted within each 
one of us while also transcending all of us, to seek and pursue the good. The 
voice of Dante, a self-proclaimed poet of rectitude, has been announcing a poetic 
gospel of justice and ethics for seven hundred years, and will do so for many 
more to come. In fact, Dante’s prophetic voice and ethical gospel seem to appeal 
to English-speaking people, Americans in particular, in a very special manner. 

It is well known that Dante’s oeuvre is focused on his personal experience, 
especially his undeserved exile. For reasons mostly quite different from those of 
Dante, Petrarch also focuses on the experiences of the self, which is constructed 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay 13 


poetically and spiritually. In his essay on “Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca,” 
Massimo Lollini is interested in ethics as a point of intersection between 
philosophy and literature. Lollini studies how the notion of otherness in literature 
emerges in Petrarch’s writings, which, for Lollini, constitute a necessary premise 
to modern critical discourse on alterity. In the writing process Petrarch discovers 
two main form of alterity, first of all, the alterity of the face of Laura, which he 
cannot “write” or present in its proper form (Canzoniere 308: 5-8). Lollini then 
argues that the ethical moment in the Canzoniere is located precisely in 
Petrarch’s awareness of the impossibility to reduce the face of the other to a pure 
representation because in that face there is something infinite (Canzoniere 339: 
9-14). The second fundamental dimension of alterity explored by Petrarch is 
related to his reflection on time and death, through which he introduces a notion 
of truth grounded not on the ontological and transcendental plane but on the 
ethical discourse. The poet is thus aware of the strict interconnection that links 
writing to time and tries in different ways to evade the notion of a crystallized 
subjectivity related to the hypostasis of the present created by the writing 
process. Petrarch points to the presence of the future in the present and to the 
alterity of an element always resistant to human reason, not only in his letter to 
future human beings (Posteritati), but also in his reflection on death as 
something irreducible to human control (Testamentum). Death is considered by 
Petrarch a “refugio” (Canzoniere 331: 63), something that creates the actual 
possibility of evading the hypostasis of time while opening the perspective of 
eternity: a different kind of temporality that disrupts the present moment of the 
human subject writing in solitude. Following Augustine (Confessiones 9: 10, 24) 
and developing a Christian notion of eternity and Resurrection, Petrarch situates 
the search for authenticity made by the human subject in the intentio directed 
toward the eschatological future (7riumphus eternitatis 67-69). Notwithstanding 
the human recta intentio, this search is destined to be open-ended and not to 
exhaust itself in writing. Petrarch’s writing cannot truly break the hypostasis of 
the present and remove the ontological difference between divine eternity and 
human temporality. On the ethical ground, finally, he realizes all the difficulties 
implicit in the attempt at transcending the pragmatic context in which the poet 
lives and through which he tries to make sense of the world (7riumphus 
eternitatis 61-62). 


3. Contemporary Literature: Valuable Shards of Lost Ideals 

No attempt is made here to trace the development of ethics, and _ its 
interconnections with literature and criticism, from the time of Petrarch to the 
second half of the 20" century, on which most of the essays of this issue focus. 
According to historians of ethics, the Aristotelian tradition pervaded the study of 
ethics from the 14" to the 16" centuries, while strong interests in the ethical 
ideas of Platonism, Stoicism, and Epicureanism continued, oftentimes viewed 
independently from Christian moral ethics (Kraye 63-79). The Protestant 


14 Dino S. Cervigni 


Reformation, with its emphasis on the individual’s ability to interpret the Bible 
independently and relate to God directly without any intermediary, and the 
Catholic Reformation, with its emphasis on the believer’s need to be guided by 
the Church’s leaders, were extremely influential in the formation of modern 
ethics from the middle of the 16" century until the Enlightenment and the French 
Revolution. In addition to the Protestant and Catholic Reformations, other 
historical changes affected the modern notion of ethics, such as the destructive 
wars waged in the name of religion, the discovery of the new world with its 
different customs, the emphasis on the enlightened human reason viewed as 
capable of guiding man, and ultimately the focus on the moral autonomy of the 
individual (Schneewind 80-95). Emmanuel Kant’s (1724-1804) importance in 
the development of modern ethics is fundamental, as Schneewind states very 
succinctly: “Kant went beyond anyone else in asserting our moral autonomy” 
(93).8 The 19" century, according to Schacht (106), begins with the 
radicalization of Kant’s moral autonomy by Fichte (1762-1814) and ends with its 
radical rejection by Nietzsche (1844-1900), passing through Hegel (1770-1831), 
Schopenhauer (1788-1860), Marx (1818-1883), and Kierkegaard (1813-1855). 

And yet, no sooner have we bidden farewell to the 20'"-century’s two world 
wars and countless other devastations waged in the name of a condemnable 
supremacy or abhominable tyranny, religious intolerance or sheer fanaticism, 
than the 21" century was struck at the very core of what so many of us view as 
the center of the civilized world. The horrific tragedy of September 11, 2001, 
invites us to reflect on the manner in which we must behave individually and 
collectively, reminding us that everything we do carries a powerfully ethical 
weight. It is my hope that the following essays will help us understand, in a small 
albeit significant manner, our ethical duty. 

With “The Return of the Spiritual, with a Note on the Fiction of Bufalino, 
Tabucchi, and Celati,” Charles Klopp offers the reader a kind of panoramic 
view of the second half of the 20" century, while looking for the lost shards of a 
perennial ethics. Klopp argues that one result, perhaps, of the recent implosions, 
transmogrifications, or movements to higher levels (as the cases may be) of both 
the Italian Communist and the Christian Democrat parties is that Italian 
intellectuals are now freer than they have been for many years to express 
themselves in public on such issues as religion and ethics. Judging from the 
fiction and the cultural commentary that has issued from Italy in the last decades, 
the anti-clerical, anti-Catholic, and sometimes anti-religious stances assumed by 
many Italian intellectuals as part of their opposition to Christian Democrat 
political hegemony have been replaced by different attitudes toward these 
matters. The political and materialist nature of much cultural discourse earlier in 
the century (whether or not this posture was accompanied by adherence to 
dialectical materialism as a philosophical or political creed) has given way to 


8 A recent translation of Kant’s thought on ethics, Lectures on Ethics, is now available. 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay 15 


more spiritual considerations involving such matters as ethical behavior and the 
role that spirituality and the sacred play in human life. 

Alberto Casadei situates his essay, titled “La narrazione etica: esempi dal 
romanzo italiano,” within an insightful theoretical context, which ranges from 
the ancient philosophers to contemporary theorists and which he then proceeds 
to illustrate through several examples drawn from contemporary Italian 
narrative. After providing a useful survey of theorists concerned with ethics in 
literature, Casadei distinguishes between works of narrative that impose upon 
readers some kind of ethical reading and those that challenge readers for an 
ethical response without forcing a specific answer upon them. Casadei also 
emphasizes the importance for “i grandi romanzi [...] di esprimere un’etica 
possibile sulla base della capacita di rappresentare la morte,” man’s defining 
moment. In his view, the novel calls for a specifically ethical collaboration on 
the part of the reader-interpreter, who is confronted by a text that often times 
proposes a comprehensive reinterpretation of the meaning of human existence in 
ethical terms. By way of exemplifications, Casadei focuses on works by 
Giuseppe Pontiggia (Nati due volte), Camilla Baresani (// plagio), Diego De 
Silva (La donna di scorta; Certi bambini) and Walter Siti (Scuola di nudo). For 
Casadei, these narratives either call for the narrator to provide his own 
interpretation or, in the cases of Pontiggia and Siti, offer an ethical construct that 
ultimately calls for the reader’s ethical interpretation. 

In “Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling,” Norma 
Bouchard continues the previous essay’s focus on contemporary narrative, 
concentrating specifically on Consolo and conducting her analysis from the 
perspective of Lévinas and the postmodern. Vincenzo Consolo — Bouchard 
argues — has often attributed an ethical status to his fictional writing. Yet none 
of his historical novels provides the reader with the totalizing ethical truths that 
are consistent with the conceptual framework of modernity. From // sorriso 
dell’ignoto marinaio to Lunaria, from Retablo to the very recent Lo spasimo di 
Palermo, Consolo’s narratives question the edifice of representation and the 
metaphysical claims upon which such an edifice rests. In short, despite 
Consolo’s humanistic conception of writing, his novels weaken the 
epistemological guarantees that ground norms for moral behavior. Consolo’s 
aesthetic practice, however, cannot be disregarded as a symptom of the 
insecurities of the present age, but prompts one to ask the following questions: 
Can a narrative that is traversed by the debunking of the conceptual framework 
of modernity still articulate an ethical call to responsibility and justice? Is the 
ethical imperative resilient enough to survive a post-rationalist episteme? If so, 
how can ethical writing be deployed after the de-legitimizing effect of 
postmodernist thought? In order to address these questions, Bouchard re- 
examines the ethical claims made by Consolo in the interview Fuga dall’Etna. 
She argues that the reciprocity between novelistic writing and ethical imperative 
is no longer located, for Consolo, in the so-called legislative and ethical truths of 


16 Dino S. Cervigni 


modernity, but it resides in a revision of the genre of the historical novel and its 
referential language. Such revision is reflected in // sorriso dell’ignoto marinaio. 
While the open-ended plot of this 1976 historical novel dramatizes, without 
solving, ethical paradoxes, its pluralized and fragmented narrative discourse 
dissolves the stability of the enunciation, thereby suggesting that language has 
ceased to be a vehicle for the transmission of absolute truths. Nonetheless, since 
a humanistic commitment to justice and responsibility is a constant in Consolo’s 
work, Bouchard outlines a conceptual framework to assess the ethical import of 
Il sorriso. She does so by combining Lévinas’s post-rationalist description of the 
ethical moment with Newton’s Lévinas-inspired model of ethical narratology. 
Bouchard then turns to a reading of // sorriso and suggests that the ethical 
discourse of the novel emerges out of an intersubjective encounter that binds 
tellers and listeners, including us, the readers and critics of narrative. In the gaps 
created by the interruption of a continuous, stable flow of narration, and in the 
differential patterns of representation established by a plurality of voices and 
points of view, readers will articulate an ethical moment of signification. No 
longer founded upon a predetermined system of morality and judgment, this 
ethical moment arises out of the unconditional act of responsibility and 
obligation of one-for-the-Other. 

At this juncture, after reading and introducing Bouchard’s essay, I would 
like to reflect, however briefly, on the meaning of the other and/or Other as 
understood by 20"-century philosophers. At first reading, the dictionary’s 
definition of the term — “A different or additional person or things. [...] People 
aside from oneself’ (American Heritage Dictionary) — may not strike us as 
substantially different from the one provided to us by an encyclopedia of 
philosophy: “Other, the. Primarily understood as the other human being in his 
or her differences” (The Oxford Companion to Philosophy). In fact, the same 
encyclopedia helps us understand Lévinas’s importance in any debate on the 
other and the ethics concerned with the other: 


Levinas charged previous philosophy, including that of Husserl, with reducing the Other 
to an object of consciousness and thereby failing to maintain its absolute alterity: the 
radically Other transcends me and the totality into whose network I seek to place it. 
According to Levinas, by challenging my self-assurance the Other opens the question of 
ethics. The priority of the Other becomes equivalent to the primacy of ethics over 


ontology. 
(The Oxford Companion to Philosophy 637) 


At this point, | may state my satisfaction, at the very least, with the notion that 
“the radically Other transcends me” (how can we possibly know the other, since 
we so often are unable to know ourselves?) and also that “the Other opens the 
question of ethics.” For, in fact, without the other I would necessarily live in 
total isolation, and neither I nor anyone else could possibly judge my ethos. At 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay \7 


the same time, the issue of the other opens up the question of male-female 
relationships and the West’s encounter with non-Western cultures. Finally, and 
most importantly, for all believers the truly Other is the Supreme Being, who not 
only opens the question of ethics but indeed provides the believers’ ethical 
concern with its true foundation.? Several of the following essays return to the 
notion of the other as presented by Lévinas. 

In “Ethics, Transcendence, and the Other: Milione of Marco Polo and 
Calvino’s Le citta invisibili,’ Steven Shankman argues that the possibility of 
dialogue with the Other haunts Calvino in Le citta invisibili, which focuses on the 
relationship between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan derived from Milione. In 
Calvino’s novel, the dialogue between Marco and the Khan hovers on the brink 
of the transcendence of the participants’ egos. This transcendence, however, 
never quite happens because of the nature of language, which — Calvino 
suggests —- remains within the bounds of representation rather than in its 
capacity to welcome and address the Other. Shankman then asks what we mean 
when we say “the Other.” In contemporary critical theory, and particularly in 
postcolonial theory, the Other generally refers to the person who has been 
marginalized by the dominant power structure: women, persons of color, the 
disadvantaged and disempowered. Within this context, the word has a negative 
valence; namely, to turn that person into a thing, an object, to dehumanize her or 
him. Shankman, however, seeks to recover a different, positive meaning of the 
word Other, deriving it from the philosophical work of Martin Buber and 
particularly Emmanuel Lévinas. Within this context, to speak in the language of 
the phenomenological tradition, this positive alterity evades conceptualization, 
for conceptualization would automatically violate the otherness of the other 
subject, since it entails knowing and, hence, the assimilation of alterity by the ego 
that seeks to know. At the same time, the unknowable Other demands my 
responsibility. 

Issues concerning violence and death are at the very core of any debate on 
ethics. In “A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi,” 
Angela M. Jeannet examines the connections between this author, who is 
considered a major voice of postmodernism, and the phenomenological tradition. 
The immediacy of his characters’ empathy with the humiliated and oppressed is 
based on the body’s primacy in constructing human experience. Language is the 
privileged medium for conveying, however fragmentarily, that immediacy. 
Pursuing the reflection initiated by the European literature of the 1930s and 
1940s, Tabucchi’s fiction proposes the possibility of recognizing the Other as 
Other and at the same time as Self. Certainty is not possible, however, as the 
question asked by one of his characters reminds us : “Ma la scrittura puo salvare 
da un’umiliazione incancellabile?” (222). 


9 For Lévinas’s relation to religion and thus God, I refer to the section “Religion” in The 
Levinas Reader (166-234). 


18 Dino S. Cervigni 


Several essays focus more specifically than others on the ethical challenges 
of the poet, the academic, the scholar, and the educator. 

In Italy’s cultural history, we recognize the privileged role of Dante as a 
poet-prophet. In the twentieth century, was it possible for any poet to play such 
a role? In “The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s ‘Ragioni d’una poesia,” 
Thomas E. Peterson discusses the articles, talks, and essays from the period 
1922 to 1969 that Giuseppe Ungaretti used to introduce his collected poems, 
entitled Vita d’un uomo (‘“Ragioni d’una poesia” Ixi-xcv). Having lived his first 
twenty-four years in Alexandria, Egypt, Ungaretti came to Italy in 1912, then 
moved to France. With the outbreak of World War I, he returned to Italy and 
enlisted. After the war, he again resided in Paris before moving to Rome in 1920, 
then taught in Brazil in the late 1930s, and subsequently moved to Rome. Much 
of the “Ragioni” is a revisitation of these places, viewed as sites of poetry and 
revelation. While the critical literature on the poetry is extensive, little has been 
written on the essays and almost nothing on Ungaretti’s autoexegesis. Peterson 
argues that here Ungaretti assumes the stature of the “poeta di oggi”: the poet of 
his day and of destiny. While such a claim is not unfamiliar to readers of such 
poets as Carducci or d’Annunzio, in Ungaretti’s case the monumental figure of 
the national poet or vate is turned upside down. Not a “hero” so much as a 
“nomad,” Ungaretti is only a vate in the oracular sense of one who sees deeper 
into nature, both its realities and illusions. Ungaretti is a poet-prophet, a modern 
classic who would speak in unanimity with the people, a “man of pain,” a 
wanderer and a visionary in an era of moral blindness. 

Through an analysis of the role of technology in Primo Levi and Daniele 
Del Giudice, Nicoletta Pireddu, in “Towards a Poet(h)ics of Techné: Primo 
Levi and Daniele Del Giudice,” explores the possibility of an ethical relationship 
able to transcend the divide between the aesthetic and the instrumental. La 
chiave a stella and Atlante Occidentale recodify technology by bringing it back 
to the Greek roots of techné as both craftmanship and art. But if technology 
works as an ethical device that promotes interpersonal connections through the 
act of making, Pireddu also examines the differences between Levi’s and Del 
Giudice’s conception of that relationship with the other. Whereas Levi endorses 
an ethics of responsibility founded upon an inevitable but ultimately unknowable 
alterity a /a Lévinas, Del Giudice constructs an interdiscursive and _ inter- 
emotional dimension aiming at reciprocity and symmetry. La chiave a stella and 
Atlante Occidentale can hence be seen as two consecutive steps in the creation 
of what Pireddu defines as a poet(h)ics of techné, namely, an alliance of poiesis, 
poetics and ethics, fostered by technology. 

Primo Levi’s work constitutes, once again, the focus of another essay. In 
“How Much Home Does a Person Need? Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home,” 
Robert S. C. Gordon examines the motif of the home as a marker of ethical 
practice and value played out across Levi’s writing, both in testimony and 
beyond. For Gordon, Levi draws a map of an ethical universe in an attempt to 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay 19 


question the radical evil of the Holocaust and also the ordinary vices and the 
ordinary virtues of our everyday lives. Furthermore, Levi’s ability to look “at the 
Holocaust through the lens of ordinary values” and “the specific nature of the 
values in question [...] makes it possible for his work to resonate historically as a 
locus of confrontation between two faces of Europe’s past: its rationalist, 
bourgeois, post-Enlightenment, progressive face and its dark, violent, totalitarian 
face [...].°. Thus Gordon rereads Levi’s autobiographical writing, his 
extraordinary dialogue-from-afar with Jean Améry and his narrative, as Levi 
contrasts the experiences and myths of exile and deportation with the anchored, 
memory-centered affect of home, using this contrast to forge his very particular 
ethical voice. 

Sergio Parussa, in “Literature in Question: Figuring Auschwitz and 
Redefining Literature in Post-Holocaust Theatre,” focuses on recent works by 
contemporary Italian and American playwrights, who represent European 
totalitarianism and the Holocaust as metaphors for modernity. In exploring the 
pedagogical, theoretical, and artistic implications of these figurative parallels, 
Parussa points out how, by using the Holocaust as a metaphor, theater questions 
the balance among aesthetics, ethics, and politics in a literary text. Parussa’s 
considerations are worth the reader’s close attention, especially what he writes 
about the language “reduced to stammering, noise, and silence by the brutality of 
concentration camps.” In conclusion, Parussa argues that, in spite of Teodor W. 
Adorno’s statement that “there cannot be any poetry after Auschwitz [...], Levi’s 
work stands out as an example of trust in the act of writing, and as a challenge 
against those who would like the Holocaust to be unspeakable.” 

Giancarlo Gaeta, in “La scelta delle ‘cose migliori’. Intellettuali e societa 
di massa secondo Nicola Chiaromonte,” focuses on this journalist’s and critic’s 
legacy, which is striking for the directness and force of the ethical imperatives it 
proclaims. Paraphrasing Chiaromonte (Rapolla, Potenza, 1905 — Roma, 1972), 
Gaeta asks what is left nowadays of a millenary culture. Chiaromonte’s answer, 
albeit minimalist in its succinct appearance, is positive, although not absolutely 
categorical: ‘What is left, if it is left, is the ability to judge that what is good is 
good, what is evil is evil, and it cannot be otherwise (and one must not do 
anything to make it appear otherwise)” (Che cosa rimane 9; my trans.). Most 
appropriately, Gaeta concludes his essay by adding to Chiaromonte’s ideas his 
own belief (which I trust all people of good will do share) that the truth exists 
and is desirable, and that the good is both a need and an aspiration rooted in each 
one of us. 

Alessandro Montani, writing on ‘“Manganelli, ovvero  l’etica 
dell’intelligenza,” proclaims, since the beginning, the problematic nature of any 
ethical considerations on Manganelli, who remained always faithful to the notion 
of “letteratura come menzogna.” And yet, Montani convincingly shows not only 
Manganelli’s ability to identify the peculiarly literary traits of a work but also, at 
the same time, to uncover and unmask in the written work the darkest areas of 


20 Dino S. Cervigni 


the human psyche and the monsters that dwell within humankind. Thus Montani 
argues that Manganelli employed such ethical and religious notions as sin in 
evaluating so-called literary works aesthetically as well as ethically and 
ontologically. For Manganelli — Montani reminds us — “La scrittura [...] é 
probabilmente un esercizio sul nulla, un’esplorazione del nulla, ma, appunto, 
non deve essere il niente.” From this ethical statement derives the critic’s ethical 
imperative: that of unmasking and denouncing the nothingness of literature 
whenever such is the case. Furthermore, Manganelli reminds us of “the infernal 
moment of literature,” the centrality of this infernal moment, the immorality of 
literature in presenting it and of the critic in accepting it, instead of condemning 
it. 

Francesca Parmeggiani, in ‘“Morselli e il tempo,” focuses on a 
fundamental issue at the basis of any ethical discourse: the function and meaning 
of time in our human existence. Through the analysis of time here and now (the 
ancients’ hic et nunc), the rewriting of past history, and our looking ahead 
toward the future, Morselli seeks to construct another form of existence in which 
all individuals question the meaning of their own existence, while avoiding 
romantic, idealistic, and historicistic views, as well as what Morselli calls the 
“instancabile ‘iificazione’ delle cose (e degli esseri)”; namely, the “riduzione 
della realta a mero prodotto del pensiero, che ha portato a un soggettivismo 
esasperato, fonte ora solo di insicurezza e angoscia esistenziale.” 

In a regrettably extremely timely essay, “Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret 
Service: Questions of Accountability in the Cinema of the ‘stragi di stato,’” 
Giancarlo Lombardi seeks to probe the ethical responsibility of Italian film 
directors in rendering cinematically three tragic events in Italy’s recent history: 
the bombing of Piazza della Loggia, the crash of the Itavia flight in Ustica, and 
the bombing of Bologna’s railway station. Lombardi reminds us of the horror of 
terrorism: it strikes when least expected, chooses random targets out of ordinary 
people, and disseminates terror in entire populations. Lombardi argues that Italy 
experienced two forms of terrorism: left-wing terrorism, which disseminated 
terror through systematic knee-cappings, abductions, and homicides, while right- 
wing terrorism spread fear in the entire country through a series of bombings that 
caused countless victims. Focusing on three cinematic renderings of the tragic 
events mentioned above, Lombardi analyzes the encounter between ethics and 
cinema. Thus, he contends that, while cinema can hardly shed light on the 
darkness surrounding those mysterious episodes of recent Italian history, it may 
still accomplish a unique task: namely, proposing daring interpretations through 
which responsibility is inevitably assigned. Questioning moral accountability, 
placing blame, and asking viewers to bear testimony, this specific cinema fully 
engages in an ethical discourse rooted, according to Emmanuel Lévinas and 
other philosophers, in responsibility for and towards the other. Lombardi 
concludes with a statement that all of us fully accept: “Ethics teaches us not only 
to think about the other but also to act on behalf of the other, while prompting us 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay 21 


to seek and question accountability.” 

Finally, | very much welcome the contribution of the only non-italianist 
scholar. Eugene TeSelle, in his “Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of 
Culture: A Retrospective Analysis,” invites all of us academics to reflect on 
other ways through which we may expand our mission as educators beyond its 
traditionally understood boundaries. TeSelle provides us with an excursus on the 
roles played by engaged intellectuals from antiquity to modern times. He points 
out the challenges of academics, who are often viewed as belonging to an ivory 
tower or an unrealizable world of ideas, when they decide to become directly 
engaged in matters concerning society at large. TeSelle presents the issue in 
poignant terms: “If the proper concern of intellectuals is with transcendent 
values, abstract ideas, theories with universal intent, or artistic representations 
that have potentially universal appeal, then how should this concern relate to 
particular social and political issues and to the intellectual’s own location within 
history?” In TeSelle’s view, there are three basic challenges facing intellectuals: 
1) They may be so caught up in ivory-tower research or artistic self-expression 
as to be indifferent to politics; (2) when they do engage themselves in politics, 
they too often become dangerously fanatical; and (3) in all cases they may be 
deceived about both their independence and their lack of self-interest.” Finally, 
TeSelle proposes an essential agenda of social commitment worth pursuing: that 
of the intellectual “who earns a living in academe but is involved in public issues 
on a ‘volunteer’ or ‘part-time’ basis.” TeSelle’s self-portrait is revealing and 
poignant for the three quite different public roles he has played in his adult life: 
those of professor, reverend, and citizen. This example of an academic outside 
Italian studies provides all of us Italianists, especially in North America, with 
valuable insights into possible contributions to the society at large outside the so- 
called ivory tower we inhabit. 


3. Final Remarks 

Faithful to the journal’s longstanding tradition of open-mindedness, this 2001 
issue has not tried to impose on its readers any specific perspective; at the same 
time, this issue’s contributions, spanning several centuries of Italy’s literary 
culture, challenge all of us by foregrounding the primacy of ethhics. 

The tragic events of September 11, 2001, have made it clear to all of us that 
we, as educators, scholars of literature, and critics are called upon to view the 
ethical issue not just as one of the many elements of culture but as the foremost 
component of our lives, the society we live in, and our mission as educators. 

This volume does not, and could not, touch upon all aspects concerning the 
theoretical, applied, and practical spheres of ethics. Concerning the theoretical 
sphere, further areas of investigation may focus on the position of ethics vis-a-vis 
the artistic and the aesthetic;!9 the relevancy of ethics in writing, publishing, and 


10 For the hisotry of aesthetics, I refer to the bibliography in Eco’s volume. 


22 Dino S. Cervigni 


interpreting; the moral and social responsibilities of literature and hence of 
criticism; the historical development of ethical criticism; the ethical dimensions 
of specific theoretical approaches. Concerning the applied sphere, ethical 
hermeneutics must by necessity be applied to the analysis of literary texts 
throughout Italy’s literary culture. Finally, in relation to the practical sphere, we 
must be willing to question ourselves ethically, ponder our ethical obligations as 
scholars, teachers, and educators, and be ready to carry out our mission in 
accordance with the principles of a well-informed, and well-formed, moral 
conscience, while respecting the other — that is, every human being — in the 
same manner as we want the other to respect us. 

At the threshold of the third millennium, every one is, more than ever 
before, confronted by rapidly evolving technological advancements, the ongoing 
changes on the world’s political map, and the profound transformation of 
individuals’ and society’s life as it was known until very recently. Furthermore, 
we have all been shocked by the most horrendous act of terrorism in American 
history, and look ahead with much trepidation and anxiety to a world that may be 
forever destabilized because of our inability to understand and respect each 
other. One must, therefore, all the more rely on every individual’s ability to 
evaluate and question contemporary society’s myriad choices, alternatives, and 
possibilities in the public and private spheres. Thence derives the essentiality, 
indeed the primacy of ethics: namely, the ability of individuals to discern and to 
pursue what everybody desires — the true bonum — for their physical, 
intellectual, and spiritual welfare, within the context of the ever expanding global 
community and a temporal frame of reference that goes beyond the ephemeral 
and therefore cannot but be teleological. 


The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


Literature Criticism Ethics: An Introductory Essay 23 
Works Cited 


The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language. 3" ed. Boston: Houghton 
Mifflin, 1992. 

Antologia della poesia italiana. 3 vols. in 4 tomes. Ed. Cesare Segre and Carlo Ossola. 
Torino: Einaudi-Gallimard, 1997-99. 

Bandera, Cesareo. The Sacred Game. The Role of the Sacred in the Genesis of Modern 
Literary Fiction. University Park: Pennsylvania State UP, 1994. 

Booth, Wayne C. The Company We Keep: An Ethics of Fiction. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1988. 

. “Ethics and Criticism.” The New Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics 

384-86. 

Brinton, Crane. A History of Western Morals. New York: Harcourt, Brace & World, 
1959: 

Casadei, Alberto. Romanzi di Finisterre. Narrazione della guerra e problemi del 
realismo. Roma: Carocci, 2000. 

Chiaromonte, Nicola. Che cosa rimane, Taccuini 1955-1971. Bologna: I] Mulino, 1995. 

Desmond, William. Ethics and the Between. Albany: State U of New York P, 2001. 

A History of Western Ethics. Ed. Lawrence C. Becker and Charlotte B. Becker. New 
York: Garland, 1992. 

Kant, Immanuel. Lectures on Ethics. Ed. Peter Heath and J. B. Schneewind. Trans. Peter 
Heath. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1997. 

Kraye, Jill. “Renaissance Ethics.” 4 History of Western Ethics 63-79. 

Levinas, Emmanuel. The Levinas Reader. Ed. Sean Hand. Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 
1989. 

. Time and the Other. Trans. Richard A. Cohen. Pittsburgh: Duquesne UP, 1987. 

Lollini, Massimo. // vuoto della forma: scrittura, testimonianza e verita. Genova: 
Marietti, 2000. 

Mackie, J. L. Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong. Harmondsworth, Middlesex: Penguin, 
1977: 

Makolkin, Anna. The Genealogy of Our Present Disarray. An Essay in Comparative 
Philosophy. Lewiston, NY: Mellen, 2000. 

Millet, Louis. Le structuralisme. Paris: Editions Universitaires, 1970. 

The New Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics. Ed. Alex Preminger and T. V. F. 
Brogan. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 

The Oxford Companion to Philosophy. Ed. Ted Honderich. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1995. 

Schacht, Richard. “Nineteeth-Century Continental Ethics, Part 1.” A History of Western 
Ethics 118-28. 

Schneewind, J. B. “Seventeenth and Eighteenth Century Ethics.” A History of Western 
Ethics 80-95. 

Thomas, Saint. Summa theologiae. 5 vols. Madrid: BAC, 1958-61. 

Vocabulaire de théologie biblique. Ed. Xavier Léon-Dufour. Paris: Du Cerf, 1964. 

Wyschogrod, Edith. Saints and Postmodernism. Revisioning Moral Philosophy. Chicago: 
U of Chicago P, 1990. 

lo Zingarelli. Vocabolario della lingua italiana. 12"" ed. Ed. Miro Dogliotti and Luigi 
Rosiello. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1998. 





Olivia Holmes 








Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 


At the beginning of the Divina Commedia, the protagonist, already in the middle 
of his life’s journey, has wandered off the straight path and lost his way in a dark 
wood. After centuries of commentary, there can be little doubt that the “diritta 
via,” now “smarrita,” represents the virtuous life that leads to God and eternal 
salvation and that in stepping off the direct route, Dante the pilgrim has made his 
journey to Heaven more roundabout and arduous. As Dante the poet explains in 
his treatise, the Convivio, the supreme desire of every created thing is to return to 
its maker, but we may lose the path through error: 


Che si come d’una cittade a un’altra di necessitade € una ottima e dirittissima via, e 
un’altra che sempre se ne dilunga (cioé quella che va ne l’altra parte), e molte altre quale 
meno allungandosi e quale meno appressandosi, cosi ne la vita umana sono diversi 
camini, de li quali uno é veracissimo e un altro é fallacissimo, e certi meno fallaci e certi 


meno veraci. 
[4.12.18] 


There is available to the pilgrim, on the one hand, the Lord’s straight highway 
through the wilderness prophesied in Isaiah 40.3, and, on the other, the 
labyrinthine wanderings of the ancient Israelites in the desert for forty years. ! 
Like Israel, the pilgrim does reach his promised goal in the long run; indeed, | 
will argue that the simplest way to describe the narrative structure of the entire 
poema is in terms of departure and return, or loss and recovery.2 There are 


| Raffa (Dialectic 100) points out that St. Augustine yokes together several of the 
figurative markers of sin from Isaiah 40.4, including the image of the winding path made 
straight. in Confessions 9.4, and that for Augustine, iniquity is not a substance but a 
perverse swerving of the will away from God (Conf. 7.16). According to Raffa, “[i]f 
Dante’s way in the Commedia is the ‘straight way,” this is because he conceives of the 
alternative — veering off course and following a tortuous route — as an overarching 
metaphor for the moral and societal woes of his world” (Divine Dialectic 105). For an 
interpretation of the Divine Comedy as patterned after the Jewish exodus from Egypt to 
Jerusalem, see Mazzotta, Desert, esp. 120-21. 

2 See Martinez (“Lament”) for an analysis of the Purgatorio, and the Christian salvation 
history on which it is based, as expressing “a shift from laughter to tears, or as a palatal 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


26 Olivia Holmes 


numerous other Biblical and patristic precedents for figuring the good life as the 
right road; see, for instance, Psalm 1.6: “Quoniam novit Dominus viam iustorum; 
/ Et iter impiorum peribit” (“For the Lord knows the way of the just, and the way 
of the wicked shall perish”) as one example. Classical precedents abound, too, 
and critics have connected the character Dante’s taking the wrong path with the 
Pythagorean topos — picked up by early Christian writers such as St. Jerome 
and Lactantius — of comparing human existence to the letter “Y”. The fork 
represents the choice in each man’s life between virtue and vice.? In some 
medieval commentaries on Virgil’s Aeneid, the golden bough given Aeneas in 
Book Six is interpreted as the Pythagorean “Y,” symbol of virtuous choice.* 

As Mazzotta has indicated, Dante’s epic consists of the continual 
dramatization of ethical choices, and Dante (or the pseudo-Dante) explicitly 
inscribes the poetry of the third canticle within the orbit of ethics, or moral 
philosophy, in the Epistle to Can Grande (Dante’s Vision 23). This inscription is 
conventional: medieval commentaries typically begin by assigning the work 
under consideration to its proper part of philosophy, and poetry is generally 
classified as belonging to ethics (Allen 5-6). The twelfth-century Arab 
philosopher Averroés (translated into Latin in the thirteenth) paraphrased 
Aristotle’s Poetics as saying “Every poem and all poetry are either blame or 
praise,” and his understanding was also extremely influential.» Poetry was seen 
as teaching by offering examples of both virtuous and sinful behavior to be 
either imitated or eschewed. For medieval critics, the intent of literature was 
indisputably that of influencing ethical decisions. But in ranking the sciences in 
Convivio 2.14, Dante makes an extraordinary claim for ethics, unsupported by 


inflection from sweet to bitter, and back again, through the redemption wrought by 
Christ” (49). His “Mourning Beatrice” reads the Vita nuova similarly in terms of the 
dialectic between Threni (Lamentations) and the Song of Songs. 

3 The Trecento commentator Francesco da Buti reads /nf. 1.1-9 allegorically as 
representing “come l’uomo [...] venendo la puerizia e |’adolescenzia, vivendo secondo la 
ragione pratica, lasciandola vincere alla sensualita, che va dietro alla concupiscenzia, 
abbandona la via dritta: come é giunto alle due vie; cioe ritta delle virtue manca di vizi, 
che mostra Pittagora per la lettera V, e’ va per la via manca, seguendo la dilettanza del 
mondo; cioé i beni fallaci: e seguendo quella, crescendo poi per la pratica lo 
cognoscimento della ragione, s’avvede d’avere errato e non avere preso la via diritta che 
mena al sommo bene, lo quale ognuno naturalmente desidera™ (1:24-25). For more recent 
Dante criticism citing this topos, see Mazzoni, Saggio 35-45; Damon,*Geryon”, Stanford 
85-91; Dozon 109-13; Martinelli 489-93. 

4 See the commentaries on Aeneid 6.136 by Servius (from the fourth century) and by 
Bernardus Silvestris (from the twelfth). On Dante’s probable familiarity with Servius’s 
commentary, see Von Richthofen 117-28; with Bernardus’ commentary, Curtius 354- 
55n20 and Freccero, Dante 17; but cf. Padoan 680-88. 

5 See Hardison et al. 81-122; Allen 19-27. It is usually thought that Dante did not know 
Averroés’s commentary (and I am not insisting he did), but see Agamben, esp. 10-11. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 27 


earlier classical or medieval authorities, by moving it to first place, ahead of 
physics and metaphysics (Gilson, Dante 99-112). And whereas the attribution of 
a didactic function, especially to classical texts, may seem to impose an alien 
ethos onto what we now usually take as essentially aesthetic constructs — as 
when Fulgentius and his imitators read the Aeneid as an allegory of human life 
from birth to maturity with Aeneas as a sort of everyman — in Dante’s case, the 
ethical meaning is inscribed deeply within the poem. According to the Epistle to 
Can Grande, “If indeed the work is taken allegorically, the subject is man, in the 
exercise of his free will, earning or becoming liable to the rewards or 
punishments of justice.”® 

The entire Commedia can be interpreted as an exemplary acting out of the 
consequences of free will, and the poet-protagonist’s journey is from the slavery 
of sensual desire through the liberation of the will so that he can freely choose 
virtue. According to Aristotle’s Ethics, an important text for Dante, “the 
incontinent man acts from desire but not from choice, while contrariwise the 
continent man acts from choice but not from desire (3.2).”’ At the beginning of 
Purgatorio, Virgil says to Cato of the character Dante, “liberta va cercando” 
(1.71). This central canticle is itself centered around a discussion of the concept 
of “libero arbitrio” in cantos 16-18, and when the pilgrim arrives at the top of the 
mountain of Purgatory, Virgil declares his will now “libero, dritto e sano” 
(27.140). Dante’s upright will (“dritto arbitrio”) corresponds to the straight road 
(“diritta via”) that he lost at the poem’s opening. He is finally back on track, and 
the last canticle — in which a “beatitudo” both Aristotelian and Christian is 
represented — may be seen as gratuitous, in terms of the narrative, as an extra, 
an act of grace, or contemplative corollary.8 Early in the Paradiso, the pilgrim is 


6 “Si vero accipiatur opus allegorice, subiectum est homo prout merendo et demerendo 
per arbitrii libertatem iustitie premiandi et puniendi obnoxius est” (8.25); translation in 
Haller 99 (modified slightly). 

7 Dante knew Aristotle’s text primarily by way of two Latin sources: Albert the Great’s 
commentary, based on Robert Grosseteste’s translation from Greek, and Hermannus 
Alemannus’s translation from Arabic, which was also the source of Brunetto Latini’s 
Tresor, Bk. 2 (Corti 85-97). The passage cited above reads in Grosseteste: “incontinens, 
concupiscens quidem operatur, eligens autem, non. Continens autem e converso, eligens 
quidem, concupiscens autem, non” (3.5.11b13-15). See Monarchia 1.12.4: “Si ergo 
iudicium moveat omnino appetitum et nullo modo preveniatur ab eo, liberum est; si vero 
ab appetitu quocunque modo preveniente iudicium moveatur, liberum esse non potest, 
quia non a se, sed ab alio captivum trahitur.” Dante also knew Thomas Aquinas’s 
commentary on the Nicomachean Ethics, to which he refers explicitly in Convivio 
2.14.14. and 4.8.1. 

8 The whole of Paradiso may thus be seen as corresponding in some sense to the 
corollary offered by Lady Philosophy to her discussion of true happiness [“verae 
beatitudinis”] in Boethius’s Consolation of Philosophy 3 prose 10, Il. 88-89: “Omnis 


28 Olivia Holmes 


figuratively seen exercising his newly acquired ability to choose freely, or in this 
case, his inability to do so, as the two options he must choose between are 
equally good: 


Intra due cibi, distanti e moventi 
d’un modo, prima si morria di fame, 
che liber’ omo I’un recasse ai dent. 
(Par. 4.1-4)? 


My point is not the temporary impasse in which he finds himself here, but simply 
that the free man is the continent man who acts only rationally.!° 

As I pointed out before, Dante depicts himself as having already made a 
wrong choice and stepped off the true path when the Commedia begins. In the 
context of the poet’s entire corpus, this erroneous choice is implicitly portrayed 
as a flirtation with a woman other than Beatrice, the “gentile donna” of Vita 
nuova 35.2, allegorized as Lady Philosophy in Convivio 2.12. The choice 
between the paths of virtue and vice is always also an erotic choice between two 
courtly beloveds. The pilgrim’s return to moral righteousness and _ perfect 
happiness is dramatically staged in his reunion with his original beloved Beatrice 
in the Earthly Paradise where she accuses her lover: after her death he “‘volse i 
passi suoi per via non vera / imagini di ben seguendo false” (Purg. 30.130-31). 
The protagonist admits in the following canto that present things “col falso lor 
placer volser miei passi” (Purg. 31.35; see also Par. 1.130-35). In order that he 
understand the shamefulness of his wandering (“errore”’) and better resist the 
Sirens in the future, Beatrice explains that she represented for him the “sommo 
piacer,” and he never should have been drawn toward “pargoletta / o altra 
novita” (Purg. 31.43-60). An enormous amount of critical literature has been 
devoted to identifying this new “pargoletta,” or young girl, and the precise nature 
of the guilt of which Beatrice accuses the pilgrim, but I simply mean to point out 


igitur beatus deus, sed natura quidem unus” (“every happy man is a god, though by 
nature God is one only”). 

9 On this passage and its relation to Dante’s understanding of free will and ethical 
choices, see Nardi, Ne/ mondo 285-303 and Saggi 93-94: Mazzotta, Dante's Vision, esp. 
43. 

10 Dante states in his sonnet addressed to Cino da Pistoia, “Io sono stato con Amore 
insieme,” that “nel cerchio de la sua palestra [i.e., d’ Amore] / liber arbitrio gia mai non fu 
franco” (Il. 9-10). This love that overcomes the power to make rational judgments here is 
clearly more related to Francesca’s “amor, ch’a nullo amato amar perdona” (/nf. 5.103) 
than to God’s “amor che move il sole e l’altre stelle” (Par. 33.145). On the strain of 
fatalism in the courtly love tradition to which this sonnet gives expression, and Dante’s 
later reaction against it in the Commedia, see Foster 50-55 and Barolini 36-55. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 29 


that here, as elsewhere in Dante’s writings, the two ways are two ladies, and the 
downward pull of the vicious lifestyle is figured as an act of seduction.!! 

The election in one’s lifestyle of the path of virtue or pleasure is already 
represented as an erotic choice between two women in the classical allegory of 
Hercules at the Crossroads, a version of the Pythagorean “Y.” Dante would have 
known this story principally by way of Cicero’s De officiis, in which it is 
recounted that when Hercules was just becoming a young man, he went out to a 
lonely place and pondered which road to take, for he could see two: “unam 
Voluptatis, alteram Virtutis” (“one of pleasure and another of virtue” 
1.32.118).!2 The two alternatives are not explicitly personified as two women in 
the De officiis, but they are in Xenophon’s Memorabilia, which Cicero cites as 
his source. Xenophon, an ancient Greek general and writer, was unknown in the 
Latin West during the Middle Ages, however, and Panofsky argues that the 
Hercules tale, which became a favorite theme of the humanists, was neglected by 
medieval scholarship because it implies a secular moral context that was 
unimaginable for the medieval Christian, since the two roads stand for what is 
worthy of praise or of blame in an exclusively earth-bound ethical system (155- 
56). Emma Edelstein counters, however, that in Xenophon’s story Hercules 
accomplishes such meritorious deeds that he lives among the immortals — 
Heaven is his reward for choosing Virtue — and that the story was understood in 
this eminently Christian sense by early Christian writers like Justin Martyr and 
St. Basil.!3 Justin Martyr relates Xenophon’s personifications with Vice in a 
luxurious dress and with a seductive expression on her face, and Virtue with a 
squalid look and dress, but offering the promise of everlasting grace, which he 
interprets to mean that “every one who flees those things that seem to be good, 
and follows hard after what are reckoned difficult and strange, enters into 
blessedness” (Ch. 11). Yet Dante is unlikely to have known this version of the 
incident, even indirectly; once again we come up against the stumbling block of 
Greek. 


Il See esp. Dronke, Dante 77-79. According to Frye, it is a convention of the nineteenth- 
century novel that the hero must choose between the love of two women, one dark and 
one light, and the plot usually requires getting rid of the dark one if the story is to end 
happily (101). Dante’s figures are perhaps among the ancestors of this more modern set 
of archetypes, both of which are versions — at least partially — of the abiding 
virgin/whore dichotomy. Dante makes use of (and problematizes) familiar female 
stereotypes in constructing his complex symbols for the abstractions of virtue and vice. | 
am not denying, however, the simultaneous literal imports of Beatrice and her rival. 

12 Cicero’s version of the Hercules allegory is cited in the Commentary of Benvenuto da 
Imola (1380) apropos of /nf. 1.10-12. 

13 See Edelstein’s letter to Theodor Mommsen, printed as appendix to the 1997 reprint of 
Panofsky’s Hercules am Scheidewege, Afterword 85-89. 


30 Olivia Holmes 


In the same letter, Edelstein also points out a passage from Ambrose’s 
Ennaratio in Psalmum I, in which he speaks of two roads “una justorum, altera 
peccatorum’(PL 14:933A; see Psalm 138:24) and even more auspiciously, a 
passage from his De Cain et Abel, in which the saint personifies pleasure and 
virtue as two women who dwell within us (PL 14:322C). One might also cite St. 
Jerome, who explicitly connects Ecclesiastes 10.2, “Cor sapientis in dextera eius, 
/ Et cor stulti in sinistra illius” (“The wise man’s heart leads him aright, / the 
fool’s heart leads him astray”), with the Sybil’s words to Aeneas when he arrives 
at the place where the road forks, leading to Elysium on the right and Tartarus on 
the left (Aeneid 6.540-43).!4 In numerous other patristic and later commentaries 
as well, the Christian is seen to choose between two roads: “una culpabilis, altera 
laudabilis,” “una carnis, altera spiritus,” “una mortis, altera vitae.” !5 Thus it is 
perhaps safe to assume that the theme of Hercules in bivio — so similar to that 
of the Pythagorean “Y,” and also alluded to by both Boccaccio and Petrarch 
(Smarr 146-52; Mommsen 175-96) — was not entirely uncongenial to the 
medieval thinker. It loosely resembles the story of Jesus’s temptation by the 
devil in the desert (Matt. 4.1),!© and in the wake of Boethius’s Consolation of 
Philosophy (4 meter 7), Hercules was taken as a prototype of the vir sapiens et 
eloquens, whose activities conquered vice and ultimately earned him access to 
the contemplative life, as well as of Jesus Christ himself, who harrowed hell and 
conquered heaven with his labors.'!’ Dante identifies Hercules as a surrogate 
Christ in /nferno 9.98-99, and almost all the classical monsters that the pilgrim 
encounters in the lower realm were conquered by Hercules, too, in the course of 
his labors (Miller 1-17). 

Dante did not need to know Xenophon’s parable in order to arrive at his 
own implicit self-presentation as a “Hercules” choosing between two ways and 
two women, for the conflation of imagery of itinerary and erotic choice is also 
scriptural. In Proverbs 7, for example, “Solomon” warns the Israelite to prefer 


39 66 


14 Pietro Alighieri connects these same lines with /nf: 1.1-3. In Virgil, the crossroads is 
placed in the otherworld, and the choice seems to be provided only to the dead, but for 
Christian writers like Lactantius, “the point where the road forks in two is located in this 
life. but the ends of the two roads are located in the afterlife” (6.3; cited in 
Damon,“Geryon” 17; see also Courcelle, “Les péres” 21-24). For Dante too, of course, 
what we do in this life determines where we go in the next. 

15 The first set of alternatives is from Wernerus S. Blasii, Libri deflorationum (PL 
157:1097D); the other two are from Auctor incertus (Hugo de S. Victore?), Miscellanea 
(PL 177:852C and 502B). For the Pythagorean letter, see also Isidore of Seville, 
Etymologiae 1.3.7 (PL 82:76A) and Rabanus Maurus’s commentary on Ecclesiasticus 
51.18-19 (PL 109:1122B-C). 

16 This connection is implicitly made by Ambrose in De Cain et Abel, chap. 5 (PL 
14:325A-B). 

17 For Hercules as vir sapiens, see William of Conches’s commentary on the 
Consolation, cited by Jourdain (44). For Hercules as Christ figure, see Lubac 223-24. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 31 


Wisdom to the ‘“mulier ornatu meretricio” (“woman dressed as a harlot,” 7.10). 
He cautions, “Ne abstrahatur in viis illius mens tua, / Neque decipiaris semitis 
eius / [...] / Viae inferi domus eius” (“Let not your mind be drawn away in her 
ways: do not be deceived with her paths [...] Her house is the way to hell,” 7.25- 
27).!8 The deceptive ways of this foolish yet seductive foreign woman, ‘“mulier 
stulta et clamosa” (Proverbs 9.13), “via mulieris adulterae” (Proverbs 30.20), are 
repeatedly contrasted with the righteous path of her rival, ‘‘sapientia.” Part 
personification of an attribute of God and part goddess, Sapientia appears 
throughout the wisdom writings of the Hebrew Bible; she is the master 
craftswoman at God’s side in shaping the world, his wise counselor, queen, and 
mother.!9 But in a radical act of Christian revisionism, St. Paul identified Jesus 
Christ with “Dei virtutem, et Dei sapientiam” (“the power of God and the 
wisdom of God”; |. Cor. 1.24; see Par. 23.37), and medieval Christian thinkers 
came to see Christ the Word, second person of the Trinity, as foreshadowed in or 
identical with the Old Testament figure of Wisdom.2° As Charles Singleton has 
convincingly argued, when Beatrice reappears at the summit of Purgatory, she 
bears a resemblance not only to Christ, but to this female-gendered version of 
Christ, Sapientia, who was identified also with Sanctifying Grace (Dante Studies 
esp. 2:78-84 and 122-34). 

Let us trace some of the different forms taken by Dante’s portrayal of the 
ethical options available to the traveler-as-lover (to Homo viator doubling as 
homo amator) as an erotic choice between two attractive women. In a sequence 
of transformations that is a play of sameness and difference, Dante’s two 
beloveds appear in various incarnations in his various texts.2! I have already 
mentioned the contrast between Beatrice and the “donna gentile” in the Vita 
nuova, and between Beatrice and the “pargoletta” in the Earthly Paradise (Purg. 
31). There are other versions of the same paradigm. The first poem of the 


18 See also Proverbs 1.10-33, 2.6-22, 5.1-6, 8.1-21, etc. In Isaiah 1.21, Jeremiah 3.6-10, 
and elsewhere, it is the city of Jerusalem and the people of Israel who are compared to a 
“meretrix.” As Lino Pertile adroitly cautions, however, in Dante “¢ arduo stabilire se la 
moltitudine di frammenti scritturali [...] derivino direttamente dal testo della Scrittura, o 
non vi discendano di seconda o terza mano, passando prima per la chiosa esegetica, 
inno sacro, il sermone, la preghiera, le formule liturgiche. 0 anche i testi volgari 
popolari e colti, religiosi e laici [...]” (7). 

19 The Wisdom books of the Bible are Job, Proverbs. Ecclesiastes, Wisdom, 
Ecclesiasticus, and, according to some modern interpreters, Psalms, Song of Songs, and 
others (Crenshaw 801). On the theological concept of Sapientia (or, in the New 
Testament, Sophia), see Newman 9-37. 

20 See Thomas Aquinas, Summa 4.12: “How the Son of God may be called the Wisdom 
of God.” 

21 As Corti points out, “Ogni opera di Dante é un mondo a sé, un microcosmo, una stella 
che ruota sulla propria traiettoria entro il macrocosmo dantesco,” but, at the same time, 


“esiste un continuum nello sviluppo di un artista, che Dante stesso ci ricorda [...]” (154). 


32 Olivia Holmes 


Convivio, “Voi che ’ntendendo il terzo ciel movete,” belongs to the lyric genre, 
conventional among the troubadours, called chansons de congé (songs replacing 
one courtly beloved with another) by Jeanroy, and “narratives of two women” by 
Kay. In Dante’s canzone, the conflict is staged between “un soave pensier” of 
an angel in Heaven and “uno spiritel d’amor gentile” that advises obeisance to a 
new lady. In the Convivio’s prose commentary, this “battaglia intra lo pensiero” 
(2.2.3) is allegorized as a conflict of loyalties between dedication to Beatrice and 
to “la filosofia” (2.12.5), with Lady Philosophy winning at this stage. Whereas in 
the Vita nuova, the lover’s substitution of the “donna gentile” for Beatrice, after 
her death, is presented as an act of weakness and contrary to reason, in the 
Convivio, the “noble lady” has become a personification of human reason, and 
Beatrice is already becoming, by implication, something like Faith. Despite the 
martial vocabulary of the canzone, the new little spirit of love does not really 
appear to be in conflict with the thought of the blessed lady in the treatise, or 
even an independent and entirely adequate substitute for her, but rather to have 
come to Beatrice’s aid in the absence of her corporeal presence, “che l’aspetto 
suo [i.e., della gentile donna] aiuta la nostra fede” (3.7.15). 

Quite a number of other poems by Dante might also be classified as 
chansons de congé: in addition to the third canzone of the Convivio, “Le dolci 
rime d’amor ch’i’ solia” (in which the speaker claims to turn away from love 
altogether), three from the Vita nuova, “Cavalcando laltr’ier per un cammino,” 
“L’amaro lagrimar che voi faceste,” and “Gentil pensero che parla di vui” (the 
first of which marking a turn from one screen-lady to another, and the latter two 
that from Beatrice to the “donna gentile”); as well as, among the “rime 
estravaganti,” “Parole mie che per lo mondo siete” (which takes leave of the 
“donna gentile” again) and ‘Per quella via che la bellezza corre” (in which 
Lisetta is dismissed by another woman, presumably Beatrice). In Purgatorio 
19.7-33, the theme of the battle between ladies returns: the pilgrim Dante has a 
dream in which a “femmina balba,” who is turned into “dolce serena” by the 
dreamer’s amorous gaze, is put to rout by a “donna [...] santa e presta,” whom 
commentators generally interpret as representing something like Reason, Virtue, 
or Charity.23 

Already in some early versions of the allegory, however, the relation 
between the two roads and the two ladies (and thus between the individual’s 
basic options) seems to be one of continuity and hierarchy, rather than strict 


22 Jeanroy 1:121; Kay 26. See also my discussion of this genre (which I refer to there as 
the “chanson de change,” following Salverda de Grave) in Assembling the Lyric Self, esp. 
44-45. 

23 Dante’s clearest model for this dream is the opening scene of the Consolation of 
Philosophy, although its transformation is complex, and Lady Philosophy can be loosely 
identified with both the “femmina balba” and the “donna santa.” On this episode, see 
Cervigni 117-52; Mezzadroli esp. 33-40: Mazzotta, Dante's Vision 135-53. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 33 


opposition. In Dante’s sonnet “Due donne in cima de la mente mia,” the 
personifications “Bellezza” and “Virtu” speak to the poet’s intellect “e fan 
quistion come un cor puote stare / intra due donne con amor perfetto”; their 
debate is related to the scholastic quaestio, alluded to in Paradiso 4, of how the 
free will chooses between two equal options. The issue is resolved here by “‘il 
fonte del gentil parlare” (Love), who declares that one can love both: Beauty 
“per diletto” and Virtue “per operare.”24 This duality is clearly analogous to 
Dante’s discussion in Book 4 of the Convivio (following Aristotle’s Ethics, Bk. 
10) of the “due felicitadi” that we can have in this life, “secondo due diversi 
cammini, buono e ottimo, che a cid ne menano: I’una é la vita attiva, e l’altra la 
contemplativa”; by means of the first, we arrive at “buona felicitade,” while by 
means of the second, at “ottima felicitade e beatitudine” (4.17.9). These two 
ways of life are the meaning, he tells us (adhering to a conventional medieval 
interpretation), of the story of Mary and Martha in the gospel of Luke: when 
Christ is received in their house, Martha busies herself with serving, and he says 
her service is necessary, but Mary, who only sits at her Savior’s feet and listens, 
has chosen the better part (“‘ottima parte ha eletta”; 4.17.10). Despite Dante’s 
elevation of ethics over the other sciences in Convivio 2.14, he remains faithful 
to Christ’s (and Aristotle’s) assertion of the primacy of the contemplative over 
the active intellect.2> He presents the lesser of the two, however, which he 
associates with the donna gentile, as still able to console the lover, and to 
provide happiness in this life, just as in the dialectical thought of St. Thomas 
Aquinas, rational truth appears as a lower, but not contradictory, aspect of the 
truth of faith, and nature is perfected, but not supplanted, by Grace.?® 


24 | take Beauty and Virtue as having complementary and positive valences in this poem. 
According to Contini, “II conflictus € composto nella convivenza di piacere e d’azione, a 
cui quelle rispettivamente conducono; e cosi questo sonetto € indicativo dellideale 
supremo che Dante si propose verso i trent’anni, la fusione dell’eleganza mondana e della 
rectitudo, delle qualita laiche e chiericali insieme” (Dante, Rime 111). The fact that 
Francesca will say that she and Paolo came to sin while reading of Lancelot “per diletto” 
(Inf. 5.127) suggests that the “Bellezza” of this poem already may already have, or will 
come to have, at least a shadow of a negativity for Dante, however. 

25 In Conv. 1.13.3, similarly, man is said to have “due perfezioni,” and in Monarchia 
3.16, to have “duo ultima” or “fines” (“goals”). In “‘Two Beatitudes,” Mario Trovato 
places the theory developed in the Convivio and Monarchia of two ultimate goals for 
human life, one relative and one absolute, within the context of contemporary 
philosophy, esp. the parameters defined by Albert the Great, Thomas Aquinas, and 
thirteenth-century commentators on Aristotle’s Ethics. He argues that this theory of 
double beatitude implies no dualism, but rather an analogical relation between ends (24- 
25). On Dante’s idenfication of man’s two beatitudes with Beatrice and the donna 
gentile, see also Trovato’s “Dante’s Poetics” 239-54. 

26 According to Etienne Gilson, there is in Thomas “an intimate accord, indeed almost a 
continuity of order between the earthly beatitude accessible here below and the heavenly 


34 Olivia Holmes 


In the pilgrim’s third dream, in Purgatorio 27.94-108, Dante adopts, rather, 
two Old Testament women, Leah and Rachel, as symbols of the two ways of 
life.2” The appearance of Leah, gathering flowers and singing, anticipates that of 
Matelda in the following canto; and the relation of continuity between Leah and 
Rachel (‘“good:better” rather than “bad:good”) also anticipates that between 
Beatrice’s forerunner Matelda and Beatrice herself.28 But Dante’s true beloved 
is also in her turn only the morning star, a herald or harbinger of the Virgin 
Mary, whose traditional association with dawn Beatrice assumes in her advent in 
Purgatorio 30, and who finally appears in her own person, as dawn, in Paradiso 
31.118-42.29 When Beatrice at last resumes her place among the saints in the 


beatitude to which we are called. The last end is not the negation of human ends, rather it 
gathers them together, sublimates and refines them, because human ends are but partial 
imitations of our last end and imperfect substitutes for it” (The Christian Philosophy of 
St. Thomas Aquinas 355). On the saint’s mammoth project of reconciling Aristotelian 
Scholastic philosophy and Christianity, and its relation to Dante, see esp. Gilson, Reason 
and Revelation 69-84; Vossler 1:108-25 and 274-86; Gregory 70-72. 

27 The canonical interpretation of Mary and Martha as types of the vita activa and 
contemplativa is credited to Origen; the same interpretation was first applied to Leah and 
Rachel apparently in Augustine’s Contra Faustum 22.52 (Jacoff 10n9). 

28 In his reading of Purg. 27, Contini asserts that the entire plan of the Commedia should 
be connected, rather than to the Convivio’s thesis of “due felicitadi,” to the corrected 
variant in Monarchia 3.16.7-8, in which Dante defines man’s two goals as “happiness in 
this life,” which “is figured in the earthly paradise,” and “happiness in the eternal life,” 
which “is signified by the heavenly paradise.” Dante goes on to say that the first can be 
attained through the teachings of philosophy, but then qualifies, “provided that we follow 
them putting into practice the moral and intellectual virtues” (Varianti 460-61; emphasis 
placed by Contini in Latin original); also see Parodi 31; Natali 199; Armour 116-17. In 
this discussion at the end of the Monarchia, Dante subordinates temporal to eternal 
happiness to a certain extent (“mortalis ista felicitas quodammodo ad inmortalem 
felicitatem ordinetur,” 3.16.17), although the thrust of the entire treatise is to suggest that 
the Emperor, who guides the human race in accordance with philosophy, should not be 
made subservient to the Pope, who guides in accordance with Revelation. See also Marco 
Lombardo’s theory of the “due soli [...] che l’una e l’altra strada / facean vedere” (Purg. 
16.107-8), where he describes the Empire and Papacy as, ideally, two coordinate and 
equal powers. 

29 Both recall Song of Songs 6.9: “Quae est ista quae progreditur quasi aurora 
consurgens [...] ?” See Priest 84; Pertile 69-74; and, on Beatrice as generally a figure for 
Mary in the Commedia, Wimsatt 402-14; Gorni, “Beatrice agli Inferi” 148-50. Beatrice is 
literally placed in an intermediate position between Dante and (words being spoken 
about) Mary in Vita nuova 5.1. For Singleton, however, Beatrice’s advent as rising sun in 
Purg. 30.22-27 primarily alludes to Christ’s coming (Dante Studies 1:51 and 2: 73), and 
the principal referent of the “pianeta / che mena dritto altrui per ogne calle” is God, of 
course (/nf. 1.17-1 8; see also Conv. 3.12.7). But Beatrice is a complex symbol bearing 
many meanings. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 35 


Empyrean, she sits “nel terzo giro / dal sommo grado” (‘in the third circle from 
the highest tier,” Par. 31.67-8), below Mary and Eve, but next to Rachel. As 
Gorni points out, the first two woman, Mary and Eve, are in an oppositional 
relation, which Dante underlines in the ferzina, “La piaga che Maria richiuse e 
unse, / quella ch’é tanto bella da’ suoi piedi / é colei che l’aperse e che la punse” 
(Par. 32.4-6), but Rachel and Beatrice crowd the third seat ‘ta pari merito” 
(Lettera 81). Rachel and Beatrice are interchangeable here as symbols for the 
contemplative life and its corresponding “beatitudine.”>° 

Like the diametric opposition of two different and antithetical alternatives, 
this figural relation of resemblance and continuity between options, and 
dialectical resolution, also has scriptural justification. As Jacoff has documented, 
Leah and Rachel (and other similar pairs of siblings in Genesis narratives) were 
widely allegorized by Christian exegetes, not only as types of the active and 
contemplative life, but also as figures for “the Old Law and the New, the Old 
Testament and the New, the Synagogue and the Church” (6). Whereas the Old 
Testament and classical traditions generally depict the individual deciding 
between a good road and a bad one, the New Testament offers the possibility of 
choosing between a good road and a better one. “Ego vox clamantis in deserto: 
Dirigite viam Domini,” says John the Baptist in John 1.23, echoing Isaiah 40.3 
(and the Baptist’s words are cited by Dante in Vita nuova 24.4 apropos of 
Beatrice’s predecessor Giovanna/Primavera); “Ego sum via et veritas et vita,” 
says Jesus Christ later in the same gospel (14.6).3! The Christian needs to pass 
by way of the Hebrew Bible in order to reach the gospels with understanding, to 
go through corporeal things to get to spiritual ones. Dante’s ethical concept 
involves a necessary and gradual passage from lower to higher objects of love, 
and is essentially Platonic, as in St. Augustine’s parable of life as a wandering 
away from and back to our native country, rather than exclusively dualistic, as in 
the Church Father Lactantius, according to whom the two roads actually lead in 
opposite directions.32 Closer to Dante’s own time, mystic thinkers like Richard 


30 Compare the hierarchy put forward here (Mary > Eve > Beatrice/Rachel) with the 
different, and more smoothly continuous, hierarchy of women established in /nferno 2: 
Mary > Lucia > Beatrice. Lucia also seems to play the role of intermediary in her other 
appearance in Purgatory 9, where she carries the pilgrim, while he sleeps and dreams, up 
the steep climb below the entrance to the terraces of Purgatory proper, thus allowing the 
poet to rise to a higher theme (see the address to the reader in Purg. 9. 70-72). 

31 Similar figural relationships to the one between Giovanna and Beatrice (and implicitly 
between Cavalcanti and Dante) can also be detected throughout the lita nuova between 
the two “screen-ladies” and Beatrice: see my Assembling 129-44. 

32 Divine Institutes 6.3, trans. McDonald 398. Augustine warns that if the actual 
traveling delighted us too much, “Nollemus cito viam finire et perversa suavitate 
implicati alienaremur a patria, cuius savitas faceret beatos” (“we would be reluctant to 
finish our journey quickly, being ensnared in the wrong kind of pleasure and estranged 
from the homeland whose pleasures could make us happy”; De Doctrina Christiana 


36 Olivia Holmes 


of St. Victor and St. Bonaventura effaced or bridged the distinctions between the 
traditional stages or psychological faculties by which we progress from the 
lowest to the highest, or from the temporal to the eternal, by inserting 
intermediate terms and suggesting that every step in this unified upward progress 
represents some form of revelation (Vossler 1:144). 

Another notion relevant to the formation of Dante’s allegory of ethical and 
intellectual choice is the tradition of personifying heavenly and earthly love as 
twin goddesses. Plato’s Symposium describes two Aphrodites: a Heavenly one, 
accompanied by love of the soul, and her counterpart, the Common or Popular 
Aphrodite, whose partner is indiscriminate physical love (180d-182a). This 
concept was picked up by Plotinus and the Neoplatonics, who interpreted the 
Heavenly Aphrodite in an abstract, metaphysical way as “the Intellectual 
Principle” or “the Soul at its divinest: unmingled as the immediate emanation of 
the unmingled; remaining ever Above,” and she eventually became Boethius’s 
“amor / Quo caelum regitur,” namely, the love that rules the universe, binding all 
things together.33 This cosmological principle of universal harmony did not 
remain entirely aloof from Matter, however, but developed a downward 
tendency and a “mingled” nature in later thought with the Incarnation of Christ. 
The twin goddesses also survived into medieval Neoplatonism; according to 
Bernardus Silvestris’s Commentary on the Aeneid, for instance: 


[T]here are indeed two Venuses, one lawful, and the other the goddess of lust. The lawful 
Venus is the harmony of the world, that is, the even proportion of worldly things, which 
some call Astrea, and others call natural justice. This subsists in the elements, in the stars, 
in the seasons, in living beings. The shameless Venus, however, the goddess of lust, is 
carnal concupiscence which is the mother of all fornications.>4 


In his prosimetrum De planctu naturae, Bernardus’s pupil at Chartres, Alanus de 
Insulis or Alan of Lille (c. 1128-1202), recombines the opposing Venuses, but 
then distinguishes between two aspects of Venus’s character, cae/estis and 


l.iv.4; trans. R. Green; ). Also see Boethius, according to whom all men strive to obtain 
happiness (“beatitudinem”) by different paths, but they are led astray after false gods 
(Consolation 3. p. 2). 

33 Plotinus, Enneads 3.5.2; Consolation 2. m. 8; see: Dronke, “L’amor che move il sole”; 
Economou 17-50; Groos 241-46. The idea of two Venuses or two kinds of love that are 
associated with her can also be found at the beginning of Book 4 of Ovid’s Fasti, where 
Venus is invoked as the “mother of the twin loves,” and in Pythagorean writings of late 
antiquity, where the traditional deities, including Venus, are placed in two 
“hemispheres,” one celestial and one infernal, so as to make pairs (Robertson 124-25). 

34 Trans. Schreiber and Maresca 10-11; Latin in Jones and Jones edition 9. Bernardus 
associated Astraea, the starry maiden, goddess of justice, with Venus legitima, probably 
based on Ovid’s Metamorphoses 1.149-150, in which the last divinity to live among men 
finally departs because of man’s wickedness. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 37 


scelestis, corresponding to a divine and a corrupt (or human) love, who war for 
possession of the human soul (“Venus in Venerem pugnans”; | m. 1.5). 

Dante, too, distinguishes two different Venuses in the Commedia: “Lo bel 
pianeta che d’amar conforta” (Purg. 1.19), which he sees in the east when he 
emerges at daybreak on the shore of the island of Purgatory, and “la bella 
Ciprigna,” which the world once believed, to its peril, that “il folle amore / 
raggiasse” (Par. 8.2-3). In the figure of Beatrice, Dante combines Bernardus 
Silvestris’s Astraea, the lawful Venus, with the Virgin goddess of Justice whose 
predicted return in Virgil’s Fourth Eclogue was taken by centuries of exegetes as 
a prophecy of Christ’s advent. But more than the presence of specific literary 
allusions, what I am trying to establish is the general influence on Dante of the 
notion of two competing, but almost identical, female archetypes. The 
ambiguous valence of these two ladies, who stand roughly for profane and sacred 
love — or Nature and Grace — permeates his cultural references. As Peter 
Dronke indicates, although there could not be a complete identity between the 
two kinds of love in more orthodox Christian thought, since “the one was an 
absolute value, the other a relative one, at best imperfect, at worst evil,” the 
language of mystics such as Bernard of Clairvaux was to a great extent simply a 
transference of the sensual imagery of the Song of Songs and of the language of 
human lovers, while the imagery of courtly love-poets such as Guido Guinizzelli 
was frequently the same as that of the mystics (Medieval Latin 1:57-62). 

In the first canzone of the Convivio, “Voi che ’ntendendo il terzo ciel 
movete,” and its exegesis, Dante specifically blames the influence of the Heaven 
of Venus for his attraction to the Donna Gentile, Beatrice’s rival in the Vita 
nuova.>> In the Commedia, Leah is associated with the planet Venus, appearing 
to the pilgrim in a dream just before dawn, “Ne l’ora [...] che de l’oriente / 
prima raggiO nel monte Citerea” (Purg. 27.94-94). One canto later, Matelda is 
also associated with Venus (this time, with the goddess herself); the poet says of 
Matelda’s eyes: “Non credo che splendesse tanto lume / sotto le ciglia a Venere” 
(Purg. 28.64-65). In Paradiso 8, the pilgrim Dante actually rises to the sphere of 
Venus, which is described as “la stella / che ’! sol vagheggia or da coppa or da 
ciglio” (Par. 8.11-12). By “wooing the sun, now at the nape (from behind), now 
at the brow (from in front),” the poet is referring to the planet’s appearance as 
morning or evening star, heralding or concluding the day. If Dante’s other 
various beloveds correspond to Venus in her capacity as morning star, then 
Beatrice corresponds to the sun, as we have already seen, but the equation Venus 


35 Also see the rima petrosa, “lo son venuto al punto de la rota.” which begins with an 
astrological description of a moment when “la stella d’amor ci sta remota” (4). The 
goddess Venus actually appears as character toward the end of the sonnet sequence // 
Fiore, attributed to Dante. It might be argued that in the Fiore (as in its predecessor, Le 
Roman de la Rose), two different characters, Venus herself and the personification 
“Ragion la bella,” correspond to the twin Venuses; see Newman 29. 


38 Olivia Holmes 


: Sun is complicated by the traditional notion that there are two Venuses, as well 
as by Dante’s argument in Purgatorio 16 that there are two suns. And the 
analogy is further complicated by Beatrice’s role as forerunner of or figure for 
the Virgin Mary.2° The constant splintering and play of reference from figures to 
fulfillments that are also figures, in their turn, is dizzying. 

Numerous different reference points and commonplaces come together in 
Dante’s image of a choice between paths and beloveds. As | have tried to show, 
this allegory is a palimpsest on which elements of classical culture (such as the 
Hercules fable and that of the two Venuses), Scripture (especially the 
personifications of Wisdom and Folly), and Romance (the courtly love lyric in 
general, and the chanson de congé in particular) are constantly being written 
over each other. But the sources that | have mentioned are just tips of the 
iceberg: Dante’s figures are spectacularly over-determined. | am not claiming to 
assert anything that has not generally been observed regarding the poet before. 
Scholars such as Bruno Nardi, Marie Thérése D’Alverny, and Maria Corti, 
among others, have extensively explored the intersection, especially in Dante’s 
Convivio, of philosophy with theology, or classical authors such as Aristotle and 
Cicero, on the one hand, with the Wisdom of the Books of Solomon .and the 
Word of the Gospel of John, on the other. The confluence of human science and 
revealed doctrine is already evident before Dante in the medieval commentary 
tradition on the Consolation of Philosophy, in which Boethius’s personification 
of Classical Philosophy is identified, by ideological extension, with the scriptural 
Sapientia Dei, and transformed into a hybrid, totalizing notion that, according to 
Corti (75-76), excludes any distinction between the sacred and the profane.>7 
Boethius’s Consolation, which Dante claims to have read shortly after Beatrice’s 
death, is also the most important and obvious source for Dante’s theme of the 
battle between ladies. It begins with Lady Philosophy driving out the 
meretricious Muses, who encouraged the sick protagonist to wallow in the sweet 
poison of self-pity. Boethius’s personification is abstract and hard to picture, 
neither young nor old, tall nor short, and not a flesh-and-blood woman (although 
a spiritualized one) like Beatrice; but her opposition to the Muses allows Dante 
to recast their struggle in the terms of the lyric poetry of his own time as a battle 
between two “real” objects of affection.28 In Dante’s kaleidoscope of shifting 


36 Marianne Shapiro (110) points out the contrast between what is said of Cupid in the 
heaven of Venus, (he “sedette in grembo a Dido” Par. 8.8), and what is said of the two 
angels who drive off the serpent with their swords in Antepurgatory (“vegnon dal grembo 
di Maria” Purg. 8.37). The parallel supports my intuition that the Virgin is a version of 
the “good Venus.” Both Venus and Mary are mothers of Love, in fact. 

37 Also see D’Alverny 5-24; Dronke, “L’ amor” 404-06; Courcelle, esp. 29-66. 

38 It is this shift in Dante towards increasingly mimetic representations which gives rise 
to the seemingly endless, and largely fruitless, critical literature attempting to identify 
“positivistically” the ladies to whom Dante’s lyrics are addressed (the various screen- 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 39 


references, one lady displaces the other in continual sequence, for the Beatrice of 
the Commedia may also be interpreted as a resurrected Muse returning to re- 
evict Philosophy. 

Dante’s allegorical figures are not only “polysemous” and drawn from 
apparently conflicting symbolic systems, but they are also versions of the same, 
kaleidoscopic repetitions of the one true referent. In order to understand Dante’s 
imaginative transformation of different cultural traditions, | find very helpful 
Sigmund Freud’s description of the condensation of the ““dream-thoughts” in the 
production of dreams: “Not only are the elements of a dream determined by the 
dream-thoughts several times over, but the individual dream-thoughts are 
represented in the dream by several elements (/nferpretation 318).”39 Dante’s 
parable of two women both combines or layers a number of sources (“‘dream- 
thoughts”) in a single image, and repeatedly fractures a single idea into two 
different images that exist in a relation of figure and fulfillment, after the model 
of Christian figural exegesis, in which connections were established between Old 
Testament persons or events and Christ and the Redemption, so that the first was 
understood to signify the second, and the second to encompass and complete the 
first.49 Freud also found that dreams for the most part disregard logical relations 
such as those represented by the conjunctions “if,” “because,” “just as,” and 
“although,” as well as contraries and contradictories; even negation seems not to 
exist in them (/nterpretation 347-53). Thus the alternative “either/or” cannot be 
expressed, but both alternatives are usually inserted into the dream as though 
they were equally valid. Similarly, Dante’s various beloveds appear in a relation 
that is both contradictory and complementary. On the one hand, the “other 
women” are Beatrice’s rivals, and represent wrong paths that the Christian must 
avoid. On the other hand, they are her handmaids, and represent necessary 


ladies, Beatrice, the Pargoletta, the “donna gentile,” the “donna pietra,” Lisetta, etc.), 
what Contini calls, “il noioso problema delle molte donne dantesche™ (Rime 303). 

39 My use of psychoanalytic categories is not meant as a subjection of poetry or literature 
to “science” or “theory,” but arises, rather, from the conviction, as Brooks puts it, “that 
the materials on which they exercise their powers of analysis are in some basic sense the 
same: that the structure of literature is in some sense the stucture of mind” 
(Psychoanalysis 24; see also Trilling 956). White connects Freud’s reflections on the 
relations between the dream-content and dream-thoughts generally to the relation 
between literal and figurative meanings in poetry, and views the way that the individual 
dream-thoughts are represented in the dream by several elements “as a kind of 
metaphorical conflation — in the way that Dante represents the Divine Presence in his 
Commedia” (111). 

40 On medieval figural or typological interpretation in general, see Auerbach 11-76; on 
Dante’s use of it, Chydenius. A homology between figural allegory and the texture of 
divinitory dreams was already suggested in the Middle Ages: see Gregory, esp. 372 
(“Identiche le cause degli eventi futuri e delle immagini oniriche [...]”). 


40 Olivia Holmes 


choices or stages in the mind’s journey to God: one leads to the other, and the 
second fulfills the first.4! 

Among the distinct “dream-thoughts” that determined Dante’s oneiric 
narrative, | have placed the most emphasis until now on the universal story of the 
Christian’s journey from sin to salvation, but it was also determined by the 
poet’s historical memory of his own experience as a private and public 
individual, among other things. Dante depicts himself as facing not only the 
binary moral decision confronted by a Christian Hercules at the fork between 
roads leading to Heaven or Hell, but also the autobiographical choices made by 
the writer and intellectual on the way to relating his vision of God at the end of 
the Paradiso. And both as Christian and as historical author, he needs to take a 
detour, to descend before ascending. The story of Dante-the-pilgrim’s journey to 
salvation is always also a meta-textual story, about the poem’s own coming into 
being. Accordingly, the protagonist needs to err, to make the wrong choice, or 
his narrative journey would reach its destination too quickly. As Peter Brooks 
has compellingly shown by superimposing Freud’s model in Beyond the 
Pleasure Principle for the functioning of the mental apparatus onto that of the 
novel, the drive of narrative is ultimately the desire for the end and quiescence, 
but textual energy is always on the verge of premature death or short-circuit, 
which possibility can be represented by “all manner of threats to the protagonist 
or to any of the functional logics which demand completion: it most commonly 
takes the form of temptation to the mistaken erotic object choice” (“Freud’s 
Masterplot” 296-97).42 Dante’s plot is thus typically novelistic avant /a lettre, 
both specifically in terms of his masterwork, the Commedia, and more generally 
in terms of his entire corpus. 

Yet as we have seen, as the texts progress we learn that even the options 
represented by Beatrice and Lady Philosophy do not exist only in opposition, but 
also in continuity: Beatrice’s young admirer needs to pass by way of a devotion 
to “Philosophy” in mid-career in order to return eventually to “Theology,” to 
participate in the active life before the contemplative life, to love his neighbor in 


41 Raffa relates Dante’s ability to “have it both ways” on issues that would normally 
seem to require definitive “either/or” solutions — which he sees as a defining quality of 
the poet’s thought — to the paradoxical logic of the Incarnation, which violates the 
Aristotelian principle of non-contradiction by making Christ at once both completely 
human and completely divine (see the introduction to his Divine Dialectic). 

42 Also see Brooks’s Psychoanalysis and Storytelling, where he employs the notion of 
“fore-pleasure” from Freud's “Creative Writers and Daydreaming™ to imply “the 
possibility of fetishism, the interesting threat of being waylaid by some element along the 
way to the ‘proper’ end, taking some displaced substitute or simulacrum for the thing 
itself, a mystification in which most literature deals, sometimes eventually to expose the 
displacement or substitution as a form of false consciousness, sometimes to expose the 
end itself as a false lure” (30). In Dante’s case, we seem to be dealing with the former 
(the exposure of the substitute as a form of false consciousness). 


Dante's Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 41 


order to love God. The lover’s turn from one lady to another represents both the 
individual’s ethical deviation away from God in the direction of earthly pleasures 
and back towards God in an act of Christian conversion, as well as a single 
continuous motion. As Freccero has shown (Dante 73-74), Dante’s pilgrim is 
traveling upwards even during his descent into hell, for according to Aristotelian 
cosmology, one must travel downward with respect to our hemisphere in order to 
rise in an absolute sense. But his turn can also represent, for instance, the 
passage from one stage or poetic style to another in the poet’s artistic 
development. Beatrice’s death marks the transition from the simpler, more 
“courtly” manner of his early lyrics to the denser, more “philosophical” poems 
that generated the Convivio, and her reappearances at the end of the Vita nuova 
and in the Commedia set in motion a third, more theological phase, which is also 
a synthesis, a partial return to the more literal or mimetic, less overtly allegorical, 
style of his early poetry (see Nardi, Dal “Convivio” esp. 1-5). In the Commedia, 
the reason for the detour is even more explicit: Hell comes before Purgatory, just 
as contrition and confession must precede punishment and absolution.*? 

In the canzoni commented upon in the Convivio (where the commentator 
claims that he understands allegory in the sense that it is used by poets, in which 
the literal level is generally taken as fiction), the literal level, or vehicle, is still 
generated by the Romance imagery of “courtly love,” whereas the allegorical 
levels, or tenor, include meanings drawn from both secular philosophy and 
Christian theology. Yet even in the Convivio, Dante insists upon the authenticity 
and historicity of the experiences described in the poems.*4 In the Commedia, on 
the other hand, where the style is more mimetic and, according to Singleton’s 
influential dictum, “the fiction [...] is that it is not fiction,” this elaborate 


43 | mean to imply a rough analogy, not an exact equation. See Augustine, Confessions 
4.12: “descendite, ut ascendatis.” On the conceptual pattern of Descent to Humility 
before Ascent to Salvation, and its repetition throughout the Commedia, see esp. 
Singleton, “The Vistas” 77-80 and, more recently, Freccero, “Introduction” 172-79. 

44 D’Andrea makes this point initially about the Vita nuova, in which, he says, 
conventional lyrics acquire “valore di verita autobiografica”: the apparition of Love in 
the sonnet “Io mi senti’ svegliar dentro a lo core,” for instance, “é presentata, nel 
racconto in prosa che precede il sonetto, come un’ ‘imaginazione’, come un’ esperienza 
effettivamente vissuta al livello dell’ immaginazione e non come un espediente retorico” 
(73-74). Nardi, however, writes that in the second poem of the Convivio, “Amor che ne la 
mente mi ragiona,” “il velo dell’allegoria € diventato cosi trasparente che appena 
s’avverte [...] non puo trattarsi di donna mortale, per bella ch’essa sia” (Dal “Convivio” 
11-12). But the woman who is celebrated in this poem for her physical beauty, for her 
“occhi” and “dolce riso,” her “atti soavi” and a voice that “dolcemente sona,” is still, at 
least ostensibly, the Romance lover’s courtly beloved. See also Damon, who says of the 
canzoni of the Convivio, “Dante clearly invites the reader to come at their ultimate 
meaning through a surface that is, within the limits of a very conventionalized mode of 
representing reality, real” (“The Two Modes” 149). 


42 Olivia Holmes 


scaffolding is removed, and the literal level becomes identical with the 
anagogical one, the literal subject of the poem being “status animarum post 
mortem” or the state of souls after death.4> But, inasmuch as Beatrice is the 
poet’s “real” beloved whom he lost to an early death and then recovers upon 
being reunited with her in the Purgatorio, this level of the text is also still 
generated in part by the erotic language of vernacular lyric (both Dante’s own 
and that of earlier poets). In the end, the love that inspires him as courtly lover 
turns out to be the same at that which moves the sun and the other stars.*® | do 
not mean to suggest that for Dante there is no such thing as “bad” love, however. 
As I have already established, he shows the individual as choosing between a 
straight road and a crooked one, and once the protagonist is inside the threshold 
of Purgatory proper, we learn that “mal amor” keeps souls away from this gate 
“perché fa parer dritta la via torta” (Purg. 10.2-3).47 Dante’s admittedly sensual 
love for Beatrice never partakes of this “mal amor,” however, for mediation 
turns out to be possible. In the philosophy of St. Thomas, for instance, man’s 
place is between the beast and the angel, or matter and God, and reason has a 
similarly central position between sensory perception and divine revelation. In 
the medieval Neoplatonic conception also, man is at the midpoint of creation 
between earth and heaven, and because, like Christ, he partakes of both, he is 
uniquely capable of mediating between them. He can rise from one kind of love 
to another just as knowledge rises from the act of perception to the rational 
concept to the mystic Idea, but he must go down first. Thus he may not have to 
choose between roads, after all, but can move forward, first left and then right, in 
a spiral.48 


45 Dante Studies 1:62: Epistle to Can Grande 8.24. Also see Nardi, Dante e la cultura 
medievale 312: “il viaggio dantesco e il rapimento che lo conclude, prima del significato 
allegorico vogliono averne uno letterale o ‘istoriale.’” For a critique of the “literalist” 
interpretation of the poem, however, see Freccero, “Introduction” 183-87. 

46 See Singleton, Dante Studies 1:70, who finds in Dante “no love that is not a gift of 
God, that is not a participation in the love of the Father for the Son and of the Son for the 
Father”; also Psaki, according to whom, in the Commedia “the love between humans is 
both a figure for that between soul and God, and [...] a step towards , a precursor for, or 
agent in it,” and “this love of Dante for Beatrice is salvific, and simultaneously erotic” 
(14). 

47 Compare how in the dream of the Siren the pilgrim’s look colors the wan features of 
the femmina balba, “com? amor vuol” (Purg. 19.15). See also the contrast in Par. 26.62- 
63 between “I’amor torto” and “diritto.” The motif of a choice between a good and a bad 
love was already present in the romance tradition. In the troubadour Uc de Saint Circ’s 
palinodic chanson de congé, “Anc mais non vi temps ni sazo,” for instance, the speaker 
celebrates his dedication to a new lady, “Car sui estorz a mal’ amor” (“for now I have 
escaped from a bad love”); see my Assembling 41-46. 

48 See Vossler 121-25: Durling and Martinez, esp. 64. Dante himself writes in the 
Monarchia, echoing the Neoplatonic and pseudo-Aristotelian Liber de causis, “homo 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 43 


If the poem’s underlying design is based on Beatrice’s presence, departure, 
and subsequent return (or even on the pilgrim’s journey away from and back to 
God; or on his three guides; or on the three canticles; or on the ferza rima verse 
pattern), then its general structure is tripartite. The fact that Dante’s thought is 
trinitarian and is reflected in his poem’s structure is news to no one, of course.49 
But what I have been trying to suggest is that the repeated dialectical pattern that 
I have described — the depiction of ethics as a choice between contradictory 
alternatives — is ultimately resolved synthetically so that dualism is overcome, 
binary oppositions become progressive continuities, and the twos become 
threes.>° It happens again and again in the course of Dante’s corpus. In his “rime 
estravaganti,” this shift can be seen in the passage from the sonnet “Due donne in 
cima de la mente mia,” which opposes “Bellezza e Virtu,” to the great canzone 
of exile “Tre donne intorno al cor mi son venute,” in which beauty is identified 
as an essential property of the moral virtue of justice (Martinez, ‘““Nasce il Nilo” 
120). The opposition in Convivio 4.17.9-12 between Martha and Mary as 
symbols of the active and the contemplative life is resolved shortly thereafter by 
Dante’s adaptation from the gospel of Mark (16.1f.) of the three Maries, who go 


solus in entibus tenet medium corruptibilium et incorruptibilium; propter quod recte a 
phylosophis assimilatur orizonti, qui est medium duorum emisperiorum” (“man alone 
among created beings is the link between corruptible and incorruptible things; and thus 
he is rightly compared by philosophers to the horizon, which ts the link between the two 
hemispheres”; 3.16.3). For the pilgrim’s spiral movement in the Commedia as an 
adequate spatial representation of his journey toward the final reconciliation of his will 
and his intellect, see Freccero, Dante, esp. 70-92. 
49 For a description of the pilgrim’s itinerary in terms of Thomas Aquinas’s “three 
lights” and “three conversions,” see Singleton, Dante Studies 2:15-56; for the 
significance of ferza rima, Freccero, Dante 258-71. 
50 As Raffa indicates (Divine Dialectic 9), this is the movement of dialectical reasoning, 
and is related to Hegel’s teleological conception of history and his notion of “sublation™ 
(Aufhebung), the simultaneous erasure and preservation of contradictions as they are 
“raised up” to a higher and unified truth, as well as to Stephen Dunning’s recent 
description of a dialectic of transformation that “acknowledges strong binary oppositions; 
but [...] refuses to let contradiction have the last word, and so it seeks a union of the 
opposed poles” (Dialectical Readings 7) The eschatological perspective of medieval 
typological exegesis is also dialectical: one historical event is related to another in terms 
of their movement toward reciprocal fulfillment at the end of time (Charity, esp. 199). 
Such dialectical principles were well-known and widely used in the twelfth and thirteenth 
centuries: Thomas Aquinas’ pattern for resolving a guaestio (“videtur quod ... sed contra 
. respondeo dicendum’”) is dialectical in nature, for instance, as was his entire project of 
reconciling Christianity with Aristotelian philosophy. According to Garin, the term 
dialectica, which was earlier interchanged indifferently with /ogica, was being restricted 
in the course of the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries to refer to the method and 
technique of disputation (ars opponendi et risponendi) involving two opposing positions 
that are both possible. 


44 Olivia Holmes 


to the sepulcher to anoint Jesus but do not find him, as symbols of “le tre sette de 
la vita attiva, cioé li Epicurei, li Stoici e li Peripatetici,” none of whom can find 
blessedness in the present world, but need the help of Christian revelation, 
figured by the gospel’s angel in white garments (4.22.13-15).>! 

In the Vita nuova, Beatrice appears to Dante in her eighteenth year “in 
mezzo a due gentili donne, le quali erano di pil lunga etade” (3.1), and this 
pattern is repeated when he sees her again in a place of worship, likely a church, 
as if positioned between the “gentile donna di molto piacevole aspetto” who will 
become his “schermo de la veritade” and the “regina de la gloria” (5.1-3). The 
trinitarian theme is developed in the course of this work to such an extent that 
upon her death Beatrice is said to be (“per similitudine”) the number nine: “che 
tre via tre fa nove”(19.6). 52 Beatrice’s role as mediator between Dante and 
Mary, who is in her turn a mediator between humanity and God, is picked up and 
greatly expanded in the Paradiso. As Francesco Mazzoni puts it, ‘l’apoteosi 
trinitaria di Beatrice dal libello si espande fino alla struttra trinitaria dell’ intiera 
Commedia” (“Il ‘trascendentale’ dimenticato” 115). Beatrice is also seen from 
its beginning in a hierarchy of “tre donne benedette”: in /nferno 2, Virgil relates 
how a “donna [...] gentil” in Heaven, almost certainly Mary (Galanti 30-32 and 
passim), sent Lucy as messenger to Beatrice, seated beside Rachel, to encourage 
her to save her lover from the death that was assailing him. When toward the end 
of Paradiso we see Beatrice once more in her rightful place in the Celestial 
Rose, she is still seated next to Rachel in the third row down, below Eve, who is 
seated below Mary (Par. 32 4-9). The sequence “Beatrice > Eve > Mary” 
implicitly recapitulates the pattern of “presence > absence > return” or “same > 
different > same” that I have suggested. This scheme recalls Plato’s description 
in Timaeus (34-37), picked up by medieval Neoplatonics, of the cosmos’s 
creation in terms of the Same and the Different that combines with and returns to 
the Same.>3 


5! Earlier in the Convivio it is said that through the three Christian virtues, faith, hope, 
and charity, “si sale a filosofare a quelle Atene celestiali, dove li Stoici e Peripatetici e 
Epicuril, per la I[ucJe de la veritade etterna, in uno volere concordevolemente 
concorrono” (3.14.15). 

52 On the generally tripartite movement of the |ita nuova through three major canzoni 
defining three subject matters or stages in love, see Singleton, Essay 78-109; but for both 
binary and ternary elements in Dante’s /ibe//o, Gorni, Lettera 98-107 and Raffa, “Love’s 
Duplicity” 15-26. 

53 Also see Plato’s recognition of the need for a third mediatory element in par. 31: “[...] 
it is not possible to combine two things properly without a third to act as a bond to hold 
them together.” Also Macrobius 1.6. On the Neoplatonic cosmic pattern of progression 
and return to God, and in relation to Dante, see Durling and Martinez, Time, esp. 6-18; 
53-70. For a model of narrative transformation whereby the “récit” (plot) “se constitue 
dans la tension de deux catégories formelles, la différence et la ressemblance” see 
Todorov 240. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 45 


It also recalls the Christian structuring of history. Mankind was originally 
created, male and female, in the image of God; indeed all created things 
resemble God. This is the first lesson that Beatrice imparts to her disciple Dante 
in Paradise: “Le cose tutte quante / hanno ordine tra loro, e questo é forma / che 
l’universo a Dio fa simigliante” (Par. 1.103-5).54 But the divine image in human 
beings was annihilated by Eve, who, in committing the first sin and inducing 
Adam to follow suit, introduced difference and division into their relationship 
with God. As Beatrice explains in Paradiso: “Solo il peccato € quel che la [i.e., 
l’umana creatura] disfranca / e falla dissimile al sommo bene” (7.79-80). Yet 
humanity regains its likeness to the Highest Good by way of the Virgin Birth in 
Christian doctrine. The poet imagines the recovery of this likeness to God, and 
the return from the Many to the One, in the final passage of the poem, in which 
the pilgrim sees the second Person of the Trinity “pinta de la nostra effige” (Par. 
33.131), and the dual nature of Christ, human and divine, is resolved in the 
vision of a God who is miraculously both “trino e uno” (Par. 15.47). The ethical 
dualism described earlier in this article is thus overcome. The protagonist 
discovers that what is decisive is not that he choose the right, but that he choose 
rightly, and that by opting for the sacred rather than the profane — Beatrice’s 
virtue, say, rather than her human beauty — he earns both; he has his cake and 
eats it too. But the final vision rewards not only the character Dante with an 
unmediated apprehension of the true nature of God; it offers the reader as well a 
signpost indicating the way to Heaven in Dante’s path.>> 


Yale University 
Works Cited 


Primary Sources 

Alan of Lille. The Plaint of Nature. Trans. J. Sheridan. Toronto: P.I.M.S., 1980. 

Aristoteles Latinus. Ethica Nicomachea. Trans. Robert Grosseteste. Ed. R. A. Gauthier. 
Vol. 3. Leiden: Brill, 1972. 

Aristotle. The Ethics of Aristotle: The Nicomachean Ethics. Trans. J. A.K. Thomson and 
H. Tredennick. Revised ed. London: Penguin, 1976. 

Augustinus (Sanctus) Aurelius. Confessions. Trans. W. Watts. 1631. 2 vols. Cambridge, 
MA: Harvard UP, 1912. 


54 Also see Monarchia 1.8.2; both passages are cited in Mazzoni, “Trascendentale” 121. 
Earlier in this article (110-14), Mazzoni traces the notion of “similitudo Dei in rebus 
creatis” as it comes down from Genesis to Dante by way of Sts. Paul, Augustine, and 
Thomas. 

55 This essay was presented, in abbreviated form, at the 1999 MLA convention in 
Chicago. I would like to thank Giuseppe Mazzotta, Ronald Martinez, and Dino Cervigni 
for reading earlier versions of it and providing indispensable critical, bibliographical, and 
editorial suggestions. 


46 Olivia Holmes 


. De Doctrina Christiana. Ed. R. P. H. Green. Oxford: Clarendon, 1995. 
Bernardus Silvestris. Commentum Quod Dicitur Bernardi Silvestris Super Sex Libros 
Eneidos Virgilii. Ed. J. W. Jones and E. F. Jones. Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1977. 
. Commentary on the First Six Books of Virgil's Aeneid. Trans. E Schreiber and 
T. Maresca. Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1979. 
Biblia Sacra Vulgatae Editionis. Ed. A. Colunga and L. Turrado. Milano: San Paolo, 
1995. 
Boethius. The Theological Tractates. The Consolation of Philosophy. Revised ed. trans. 
S. J. Tester et al. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 1973. 
Brunetto Latini. Li Livres dou Tresor de Brunetto Latini. Ed. F. Carmody. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1947. 
Cicero, Marcus Tullius. De Officiis. Ed. H. A. Holden. Amsterdam: Hakkert, 1966. 
. On Duties. Ed. and trans. M. T. Griffin and E. M. Atkins. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1991. 
Dante Alighieri. La Commedia secondo l'antica vulgata. Ed. G. Petrocchi. 4 vols. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1966-67. 
. “Convivio.” Opere minori 1.2. Ed. C. Vasoli and D. De Robertis. Milano: 
Ricciardi, 1988. 
. “Epistole.” Opere minori 2. Ed. A. Frugoni and G. Brugnoli. Milano: Ricciardi, 
1979. 507-643. 
. “Il Fiore.” Opere minori 1.1. Ed. G. Contini. Milano: Ricciardi, 1984. 563-798. 
. Literary Criticism of Dante Alighieri. Trans. and ed. R. Haller. Lincoln: U of 
Nebraska P, 1973. 
. Monarchia. Trans. and ed. P. Shaw. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1995. 
. Rime. Ed. G. Contini. Intro. M. Perugi. 2nd ed. Torino: Einaudi, 1995. 
. “Vita nuova.” Opere minori 1.1. Ed. D. De Robertis. Milano: Ricciardi, 1984. 3- 
247. 
Fulgentius. Fulgentius the Mythographer. Trans. and intro. L. Whitbread. Columbus: 
Ohio State UP, 1972. 
Guillaume de Lorris, and Jean de Meun. Le Roman de la Rose. Ed. A. Strubel. Paris: 
Librairie Générale Frangaise, 1992. 
Hardison, O. B., et al., eds. Medieval Literary Criticism: Translations and 
Interpretations. New York: Ungar, 1974. 
The Holy Bible. Douay Rheims Version. Ed. R. Challoner (1749-52). Baltimore: n.p., 
1899. Rpt. Rockford, IL: Tan Books, 1971. 
Hieronymus (Sanctus) Presbyter. “Commentarius in Ecclesiasten.” Ed. M. Adriaen. 
Corpus Christianorum. Series Latina. Vol. 72. Turnholti: Brepols, 1959. 247-361. 
Justin Martyr. “The Second Apology.” The Ante-Nicene Fathers. Vol. 1. Ed. A. Roberts 
and J. Donaldson. Revised ed. A. C. Coxe. Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1885. Rpt. 
1975. 188-93. 
Lactantius. The Divine Institutes: Book I-VII. Trans. M. F. McDonald. Washington: 
Catholic UP, 1964. 
Macrobius. Commentary on the Dream of Scipio. Trans. W. Stahl. New York: Columbia 
UP,. 1952, 
Ovidius Naso, Publius. Metamorphoses. Trans. F. J. Miller. 2 vols. Revised ed. G. P. 
Goold. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 1977. 


Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 47 


Patrologiae cursus completus: Series Latina. Ed J. P. Migne. 221 vols. Paris: Garnier, 
1841-. Computer file: the full text database. Chadwyck-Healey, 1996. 
<http://pld.chadwyck.co.uk> 

Plotinus. The Enneads. Trans. S. MacKenna. 1917-30. 4th ed. B. S. Page. London: Faber 
and Faber, 1969. 

Plato. The Symposium. Trans. W. Hamilton. London: Penguin, 1951. 

. Timaeus and Critias. Trans. D. Lee. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1971. 

Servius. Servii Grammatici qui Feruntur in Vergilii Carmina Commentarii. Ed. G. Thilo 
and H. Hagen. 2 vols. Leipzig: Teubner, 1923. Rpt. 3 vols. Hildesheim: Olms, 1961. 

Thomas Aquinas, Saint. Commentary on Aristotle's “Nicomachean Ethics.” Trans. C. 
Litzinger. 1964. Revised ed. Notre Dame: Dumb Ox Books, 1993. 

. Summa contra gentiles. Book Four: Salvation. Trans. C. O'Neil. 1957. Notre 
Dame: U of Notre Dame, 1975. 

Uc de Saint-Circ. Poésies. Ed. A. Jeanroy and J.-J. Salverda de Grave. Toulouse: Privat, 
he 

Virgil. Eclogues; Georgics; Aeneid; The Minor Poems. Revised ed. Trans. H. R. 
Fairclough. 2 vols. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 1935. 

Xenophon. Memorabilia. Trans. A. Bonnette. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1994. 


Secondary Sources 

Agamben, Giorgio. “Comedia: la svolta comica di Dante e la concezione della colpa.” 
Paragone letteratura 29 (1978): 3-27. (Also in: Categorie italiane. Venezia: 
Marsilio, 1996. 3-27.) 

Alighieri, Pietro. Petri Allegherii super Dantis ipsius Genitoris Comoediam 
Commentarium. Ed. V. Nannucci. Firenze: G. Piatti, 1845. 

Allen, Judson Boyce. The Ethical Poetic of the Later Middle Ages. Toronto: U of 
Toronto P, 1982. 

Armour, Peter. “Purgatorio XXVIII.” Dante Commentaries. Ed. D. Nolan. Dublin: Irish 
Academic P, 1977. 115-41. 

Auerbach, Erich. Scenes from the Drama of European Literature. Trans. R. Manheim. 
Gloucester: Peter Smith, 1973. 

Barolini, Teodolinda. “Dante and Cavalcanti (On Making Distinctions in Matters of 
Love): /nferno V in Its Lyric Context.” Dante Studies 116 (1998): 31-63. 

Benevenuti de Rambaldis de Imola. Comentum super Dantis Aldighierij, Comoediam. 
Ed. J. Lacaita. 5 vols. Florence: Barbera, 1887. 

Brooks, Peter. “Freud’s Masterplot.” Literature and Psychoanalysis. Ed. S. Felman. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1982. 280-300. 

. Psychoanalysis and Storytelling. Oxford: Blackwell, 1994. 

Cervigni, Dino. Dante's Poetry of Dreams. Firenze: Olschki, 1986. 

Chydenius, Johan. The Typological Problem in Dante. Helsingfors: Societas Scientiarum 
Fennica, 1958. 

Contini, Varianti e altra linguistica. Torino: Einaudi, 1970. 

Corti, Maria. La felicita mentale. Torino: Einaudi, 1983. 

Courcelle, Pierre. La Consolation de Philosophie dans la tradition littéraire. Paris: 
Etudes Augustiniennes, 1967. 





48 Olivia Holmes 


. “Les peres de l’église devant les enfers virgiliens.” Archives d'histoire 
doctrinale et litéraire du moyen age 30 (1955): 5-74. 
Crenshaw, James. “Wisdom Literature.” The Oxford Companion to the Bible. Ed. B. 
Metzger and M. Coogan. New York: Oxford UP, 1993. 801-03. 
Curtius, Ernst Robert. European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages. Trans. W. Trask. 
1953. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1990. 
D’Alverny, Marie Therése. “Notes sur Dante et la Sagesse.” Revue des Etudes Italiennes 
11 (1965): 5-24. 
Damon, Phillip. “Geryon, Cacciaguida, and the Y of Pythagoras.” Dante Studies 85 
(1967): 15-32. 
. “The Two Modes of Allegory in Dante’s Convivio.” Philological Quarterly 40 
(1961): 144-49. 
D’Andrea, Antonio. “L’*Allegoria dei poeti’: Nota a Convivio II.1.” Dante e le forme 
dell'allegoresi. Ed. M. Picone. Ravenna: Longo, 1987. 71-78. 
Dozon, Marthe. Mythe et Symbole dans la ‘Divine Comédie.”’ Firenze: Olschki, 1991. 
Dronke, Peter. “L’amor che move il sole e l’altre stelle.” Studi medievali 3rd ser. 6 
(1965): 389-422. 
. Dante and Medieval Latin Traditions. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1986. 
. Medieval Latin and the Rise of the European Love-Lyric. 2nd ed. 2 vols. 
Oxford: Clarendon, 1968. 
Dunning, Stephen N. Dialectical Readings: Three Types of Interpretation. University 
Park: Pennsylvania State UP, 1997. 
Durling, Robert M., and Ronald L. Martinez. Time and the Crystal: Studies in Dante's 
“Rime Petrose.” Berkeley: U of California P, 1990. 
Economou, George. “The Two Venuses and Courtly Love.” /n Pursuit of Perfection. Ed. 
J. Ferrante and G. Economou. Port Washington: Kennikat, 1975. 17-50. 
Foster, Kenelm. The Two Dantes and Other Studies. London: Darton, Longman & Todd, 
1977. 
Francesco da Buti. Commento sopra la Divina Comedia. 3 vols. Ed. C. Giannini. Pisa: 
Nistri, 1858-62. 
Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. R. Jacoff. Cambridge, MA: 
Harvard UP, 1986. 
. “Introduction to /nferno.” The Cambridge Companion to Dante. Ed. R. Jacoff. 
Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1993. 172-91. 
Freud, Sigmund. The Interpretation of Dreams. Trans. J. Strachey. New York: Avon, 
1965. 
. Beyond the Pleasure Principle. Trans. J. Strachey. New York: Norton, 1961. 
Frye, Northrup. Anatomy of Criticism. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1957. 
Galanti, Carmine. “La donna gentile ¢ Maria.” Liceo 1.2 (1878): 30-32, 59-64, 91-96. 
Garin, Eugenio. “La dialettica dal secolo XII ai pricipi dell’eta moderna.” Rivista di 
filosofia 49 (1958): 228-53. 
Gilson, Etienne. The Christian Philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas. Trans. L. Shook. New 
York: Random House, 1956. 
. Dante the Philosopher. Trans. D. Moore. New York: Sheed & Ward, 1949. 
. Reason and Revelation in the Middle Ages. New York: Scribner, 1938. 





Dante’s Two Beloveds: Ethics as Erotic Choice 49 


Gorni, Guglielmo. “Beatrice agli Inferi.” Omaggio a Beatrice (1290-1990). Ed. R. 
Abardo. Firenze: Le Lettere, 1997. 143-58. 

. Lettera nome numero. Bologna: II Mulino, 1990. 

Gregory, Tullio. Mundana Sapientia: forme di conoscenza nella cultura medievale. 
Roma: Edizioni di Storia e Letteratura, 1992. 

Groos, Arthur. “*Amor and his Brother Cupid’: The ‘Two Loves’ in Heinrich von 
Veldeke’s Eneit.” Traditio 32 (1976): 238-55. 

Holmes, Olivia. Assembling the Lyric Self; Authorship from Troubadour Song to Italian 
Poetry Book. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 2000. 

Jacoff, Rachel. “The Tears of Beatrice: /nferno II.” Dante Studies 100 (1982): 1-12. 

Jeanroy, Alfred. La Poésie lyrique des troubadours. 2 vols. 1934. New York: AMS, 
1974. 

Jourdain, Charles. Excursions historiques et philosophiques a travers le moyen dge. 
Paris: Firmin-Didot, 1888. 

Kay, Sarah. Subjectivity in Troubadour Poetry. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1990. 

Lubac, Henri de. Exégése médiévale: les quatres sens de |’écriture. 4 vols. Paris: 
Montaigne, 1964. 

Martinelli, Bortolo. “La passione e il limite: "inutile avventura di Ulisse.” Miscellanea di 
studi danteschi in memoria di Silvio Pasquazi. 2 vols. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 
1993. 2:485-506. 

Martinez, Ronald L. “Lament and Lamentations in Purgatorio and the Case of Dante’s 
Statius.” Dante Studies 115 (1997): 45-88. 

. “Mourning Beatrice: The Rhetoric of Threnody in the Vita nuova.” MLN 113 
(1998): 1-29. 

.“*Nasce il Nilo’: Justice, Wisdom, and Dante’s Canzone ‘Tre Donne intorno al 

cor mi son venute.’” Dante Now. Ed. T. Cachey. Notre Dame: U of Notre Dame P, 
1995. 115-54. 

Mazzoni, Francesco. Saggio di un nuovo commento alla “Divina Commedia”: Inferno. 
Canti I-II]. Firenze: Sansoni, 1967. 

. “Il ‘Trascendentale’ dimenticato.” Omaggio a Beatrice (1290-1990). Ed. R. 

Abardo. Firenze: Le Lettere, 1997. 93-132. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

. Dante's Vision and the Circle of Knowledge. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 
Mezzadroli, Giuseppina. “Dante, Boezio e le sirene.” Lingua e stile 25 (1990): 25-56. 
Miller, Clarence. “Hercules and his Labors as Allegories of Christ and His Victory over 

Sin in Dante’s /nferno.” Quaderni d‘italianistica 5 (1984): 1-17. 

Mommsen, Theodor. “Petrarch and the Story of the Choice of Hercules.” Medieval and 
Renaissance Studies. Ed. E. Rice. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1959. 175-96. 

Nardi, Bruno. Ne/ Mondo di Dante. Roma: Storia e Letteratura, 1944. 

. Saggi e note di critica dantesca. Milano: Ricciardi, 1966. 

. Dal “Convivio” alla “Commedia.” 1960. Rpt. with intro. by O. Capitani. 

Roma: Istituto Storico Italiano per il Medio Evo, 1992. 
. Dante e la cultura medievale. 2nd ed. P. Mazzantini. Intro. T. Gregory. Roma: 
Laterza, 1990. 

Natali, Giulio. “Il Paradiso terrestre e la sua custode.” Studi in onore di Salvatore 

Santangelo. Spec. no. of Siculorum Gymnasium 8.1 (1955): 197-210. 





50 Olivia Holmes 


Newman, Barbara. “The Pilgrimage of Christ-Sophia.” Vox Benedictina 9 (1992): 9-37. 

Padoan, Giorgio. “Canto XVIII.” Lectura dantis scaligera: “Purgatorio.” Ed. M. 
Marcazzan. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1967. 657-88. 

Panofsky, Erwin. Hercules am Scheidewege. Leipzig: Teubner, 1930. Rpt. with afterword 
by D. Wuttke. Berlin: Gebr. Mann, 1997. 

Parodi, E. G. “La Divina commedia, poema della liberta dell’individuo e il canto XX VII 
del Purgatorio.” Dante: Raccolta di studi. Ed. A. Res. Gorizia: Paternolli, 1921. 31- 
41. 

Pertile, Lino. La puttana e il gigante. Ravenna: Longo, 1998. 

Priest, Paul. “Dante and ‘The Song of Songs.’” Studi danteschi 49 (1972): 79-113. 

Psaki, Regina. “Dante’s Redeemed Eroticism.” Lectura Dantis 18-19 (1996): 12-19. 

Raffa, Guy. Divine Dialectic: Dante's Incarnational Poetry. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 
2000. 

. ““Love’s Duplicity in the Vita Nuova.” Italian Culture 10 (1992): 15-26. 

Robertson, D. W. A Preface to Chaucer. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1962. 

Shapiro, Marianne. Woman Earthly and Divine in the Comedy of Dante. Lexington: U of 
Kentucky P, 1975. 

Singleton, Charles. Dante Studies. 2 vols. Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 1954-58. 

. An Essay on the “Vita Nuova.” Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 1949. Rpt. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1977. 
. “The Vistas in Retrospect.” Modern Language Notes 81 (1966): 55-80. 

Smarr, Janet. “Boccaccio and the Choice of Hercules.” Modern Language Notes 92 
(1977): 146-52. 

Stanford, W. B. “The ‘Maggior Fortuna’ and the Siren in Purgatorio XIX.” Dante 
Commentaries. Ed. D. Nolan. Dublin: Irish Academic P, 1977. 85-91. 

Todorov, Tzvetan. Poétique de la Prose. Paris: Seuil, 1971. 

Trilling, Lionel. “Freud and Literature.” Critical Theory Since Plato. Ed. H. Adams. New 
York: Harcourt Brace Javanovich, 1971. 949-58. 

Trovato, Mario.“Dante and the Tradition of the *“Two Beatitudes.’” Lectura Dantis 
Newberryana I. Ed. P. Cherchi and A. Mastrobuono. Evanston: Northwestern UP, 
1988. 19-36. 

. “Dante’s Poetics of Good: From Phenomenology to Integral Realism.” Annali 
d'Italianistica 8 (1990): 232-56. 

Von Richthofen, Erich. “Traces of Servius in Dante.” Dante Studies 92 (1974): 117-28. 

Vossler, Karl. Medieval Culture: An Introduction to Dante and his Times. 2 vols. Trans. 
W. C. Lawton. New York: Ungar, 1929. 

White, Hayden. Figural Realism: Studies in the Mimesis Effect. Baltimore: Johns 
Hopkins UP, 1999. 

Wimsatt, James. “Beatrice as a Figure for Mary.” 7raditio 33 (1977): 402-14. 


Brenda Deen Schildgen 





Dante’s Utopian Political Vision, the Roman Empire, 
and the Salvation of Pagans 


“[...] velut in ultimum finem, omnia nostra opera ordinantur, quia est pax 
universalis [...].” 
(Monarchia |. lv.5)! 


“Ethics,” writes Giorgio Agamben, “begins only when the good is revealed to 
consist in nothing other than a grasping of evil [...] truth is revealed only by 
giving a place to non-truth — that is, as a taking-place of the false, as an 
exposure of its own innermost impropriety” (Coming Community IV). The 
premise that truth cannot be understood except by showing the false drives both 
the ethical and poetic rhythms in the Commedia. Starting with the false, the 
poem consistently exposes its contrasting truth. However, because of the 
apparently moral standing of the virtuous pagans, one of the more perplexing 
and elusive aspects of this dichotomy between false and true is the ethical 
conundrum Dante poses about the judgment that condemns the pagans to Limbo. 

This essay argues that Dante’s utopian politics based on Orosius’s 
historiographical legacy is precisely what directs him to exile his Latin poets — 
Virgil, Ovid, Horace, and Lucan — to Limbo. Their appearance in the poem in 
contrast to those pagans Dante selects for salvation suggests that Dante believed 
his ancient poets lacked the vision to see the Empire as the instrument of 
providential history. 

In Inferno 4, Dante the author exalts himself (“m’essalto” 120)* in the 
company of the ancient poets, even while he seems to be arguing that despite 
their literary gifts, the poets deserved Limbo, the “verde smalto” (118). Dante 
returns to the issue of the virtuous excluded from salvation throughout the poem, 
but Paradiso 19 and 20 particularly address the problem. Indeed, scholars have 
argued that Par. 19: 70-78, where Dante raises the issue of the salvation of non- 
Christians, perhaps suggests Dante’s doubts about the condemnation of the 
virtuous pagans in Limbo (Padoan 120-22; Foster; Sanguineti 235-54; Casella, 
“Figurazione’”’). Of course, Dante does select certain figures from the ancient 


“[...] all our human actions are directed as to their final end. That means is universal 


eace.” 
Throughout this essay, I refer to the Giorgio Petrocchi critical edition of The Divine 


Comedy used by Singleton. 
Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


52 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


world as redeemed pagans — Statius, (Purg. 21 and 22), Cato (Purg. 1), Trajan 
(Par. 20: 44), and Ripheus (Par. 20: 68). Therefore, his decision to exile the 
ancient poets emphasizes that Dante chooses to distinguish pagans he deemed 
worthy of salvation from those he assigned to Limbo. Also, the tantalizing void 
created by the absence of Livy and “| buono Augusto” (/nf. 1: 71), and Virgil’s 
strong presence in /nferno and Purgatorio (along with the great poets of his 
century, Ovid, Horace, and Lucan) emphasizes Dante’s distinction between his 
condemned Latin poets and other pagans he chose to save. The ethics of 
salvation is thus revealed by one “non-truth” giving way to an absolute truth, but 
the latter cannot be seen without also understanding and knowing the other, as 
Agamben argues. 

Taking into consideration Dante’s commitment to the Roman imperial 
model of government, the cultural legacy of Virgil, and the status of the salvation 
of pagans as an intellectual and theological issue from the twelfth century 
onwards, this essay examines the ethical criteria Dante adopts for the salvation 
of pagans. 


Salvation of Pagans 

The salvation of pagans is not nearly the unorthodox position that many believe 
it to be (Capéran; Sullivan). There were strong arguments from the twelfth 
century on reaching back to Pauline and Augustinian statements that moral Jews 
and pagans who had lived before the coming of Christ had equal access to 
salvation. For if all mankind had the same roots and the same creator God, they 
all had to have access to the same possibility of salvation. This is the argument 
that Augustine made on several occasions: “All together we are members of 
Christ and are his body; and not just we who are in this place only, but 
throughout the world; and not at this time only, but — what shall I say — from 
Abel the just man until the end of time, as long as man begets and is begotten, 
whoever among the just made his passage through this life, whether now, that is, 
not in this place, but in the present life, or in generations to come, all the just are 
this one body of Christ, and individually his members” (Serm. 341:9.11 Col. 
1499-1500). Note here Augustine’s emphasis on the Roman virtue of “justice,” 
which makes mankind members of the body of Christ. Similarly in De Vera 
Religione, he wrote that in his time Christianity was the one true religion 
(XXV.46) but in the Retractationes, pointing out that Christianity did not exist in 
antiquity, he contended that Christ’s salvation had to be open to all mankind 
from the beginning of time because God’s purpose in creating the universe was 
the salvation of humanity (I.xiii.3). Here there is no stipulation about baptism or 
“knowing” Christ intellectually. 

The rediscovery of Aristotle in the twelfth century likewise gave rise to 
persuasive arguments, particularly presented by Peter Abelard, among others, 
that the Greeks — Plato, Aristotle, and Socrates — as well as the great Latin 
writers must have access to heaven under the same rules as the Hebrew 


Dante's Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 53 


patriarchs (/ntrod. ad. Theol. PL 178. I. 25. Col. 1034 C-D; Theol. Christ Il. 
Col. 1179C and Expositio ad. Rom.” | Col. 802 D). But even more important, as 
argued by Hugh of St. Victor (De Sacram. II. pt. VI.vii), Albert the Great 
(Commentarii in tertium libri sententiarum, dist. XXV, B, art. II, Ad. 6), 
Thomas Aquinas (Summa Theologica. Secunda Secundae, Quest. 1; art. VII), 
and Bonaventure (/n tertium librum sententiarum. d. 25, a.1, q.2, ad. 6), for 
those who had not received the sacrament of baptism, a conversion of heart 
might be sufficient, for the providence of God was deemed most merciful 
(Capéran 170-200). Thus there was widespread belief in the possibility of 
salvation, particularly for those who had lived before Christ, or for those who 
had never encountered Christianity but were nonetheless just. Furthermore and 
more importantly in a sense, from the twelfth century on, the salvation of pagans 
was a topic open to theological discussion without any absolute convictions 
regulating the conclusions except that those people who were eligible for 
salvation had to be virtuous. 


Dante’s Political Ideas 
‘“Romanae spatium est urbis et orbis idem” (“The space of Rome’s city is the 
same as the world” Fasti 2.684). Ovid’s proclamation equates the orbis terrarum 
with the Roman Empire and with the city of Rome as its center. This legacy of 
the ancient Roman imperial hegemony shaped Dante’s geo-political imagination 
because for him, the peace of the political world was coterminous with the space 
of the Roman Empire (Mazzotta 1-13). The birth of Christ during the reign of 
Augustus Caesar, first Roman Emperor, was, as for Orosius and in contrast to 
Augustine (Fortin vii-xxvi), too fortuitous for Dante to dismiss as mere 
coincidence. Dante, in fourteenth-century Italy plagued by civil strife, whether 
inter-city or intra-city, looked back to an unproblematic peace he imaginatively 
created out of the memories of the ancient Roman Empire, the model for the time 
of peace he desired for the present. Dante’s desire is a desperate attempt to 
restore Rome as the world’s center and to reinstate Roman civic virtue 
(Hollander and Rossi 74). In his own time, their value had been shattered by 
Italy’s inter-city squabbling, the relocation of the Pope to Avignon, and the 
rejection of Henry VII, whom, in his Letters V, VI, and VII, Dante had 
welcomed to Italy to be crowned emperor-elect (1310-1312). 

Dante’s views on the Roman Empire are, of course, well known to scholars 
of his work.2 Memory of the Roman imperium as a structure of civic power 
formed Dante’s desire for a restored Roman Empire. In this political vision, the 


3 For works on Dante’s idea of Rome, his politics, and the roles of pope and emperor, see 
Nardi, “Il concetto” 215-75 and “Intorno” 151-313; Silverstein 187-218; d’Entréves 311- 
50; Barbi 49-68; Kantorowicz: Davis, Dante and the Idea of Rome and “Dante’s Vision” 
23-41; De Angelis; Limentani 113-37; Mazzoni, “Teoresi” 9-111; Mazzotta 66-106; 
DuBois 28-51, 52-70; Ferrante 3-131; Schnapp 14-35; Sistrunk; Armour; Scott 29-59. 


54 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


virtues with which he characterized the Romans, justice in particular, would rule, 
and the Church would lose all temporal power. But in the Monarchia, the 
Commedia, Convivio, and the political letters, there is no imperial infrastructure, 
no concrete political program; only utopian political visions based on nostalgia 
and desire. Davis sums up Dante’s theory of history and politics: “It rests on 
memory and desire, memory of an alleged golden age under Augustus, a 
universal peace that Dante believed existed only once in human history, and 
desire for a savior, evidently a new Augustus, who would restore this unique and 
vanished order to the modern world” (“Dante and the Empire” 73). 

To eliminate wars and their cause, as Dante proposed in the Convivio, it is 
necessary that “tutta la Terra, e quanto all’umana generazione a possedere é 
dato, esser Monarcia, cioé uno solo Principato e uno Principe avere, il quale, 
tutto possedendo e pit desiderare non possendo, li re tenga contenti nelli termini 
delli regni, sicché pace intra loro sia, nella quale si posino le cittadi, e in questa 
posa le vicinanze s’amino, in questo amore le case prendano ogni loro bisogno, 
il quale preso, l’uomo viva felicemente; ch’é quello per che l’uomo é nato” (4. 4. 
4). Dante’s political vision incorporates the whole earth under a single rule and a 
single ruler! This grand poetic project, like his later prophetic utterances in the 
Paradiso, expresses his utopian desire for peace in the world. As Justinian says 
in Paradiso 6, “Poi, presso al tempo che tutto ’! ciel vole / redur lo mondo a suo 
modo sereno, / Cesare per voler di Roma il tolle” (55-57). 

Dante probably developed his political ideas under the influence of Remigio 
dei Girolami who was a /eftore at the studium at the Dominican Santa Maria 
Novella in Florence (Davis, “The Florentine Studia” 347-61). Remigio, a 
Florentine born in 1247, was a disciple of Thomas Aquinas in Paris in 1269, and 
died in 1319 in Florence. He gave courses at the studium that lay people could 
attend, and among his many sermons are De bono pacis, De iustitia, and De 
peccato usurae, all of which are themes in Dante’s poetry. Remigio, in contrast 
to Dante, however, developed a philosophy of community closer to Thomistic, 
Augustinian, and Aristotelian social-political thought, which emphasized the idea 
of social collectivism and civitas, both of which would affect a general political 
theory (Davis “Remigio de’ Girolami’; De Matteis; Capitani, “Il De Peccato 
Usure”;). Two other sources of inspiration for Dante’s political ideas, 
particularly in terms of church-state relationships, are John of Salisbury and 
Bernard of Clairvaux. John’s Policraticus discussed at length the respective 
roles of king and emperor (Pézard 163-91); likewise, Bernard’s De 
Consideratione addressed the limits of papal power in the secular domain 
(Botterill 13). Unlike Remigio’s more practical, although visionary politics, 
Dante’s empire, emperor, and pope as conceived in the Monarchia are utopian 
ideals (Capitani, “Spigolatura” 81), for he has constructed the myth of the pax 
romana as a radical critique of his own age of political turmoil and fratricidal 
conflict. The Monarchia is clearly in dialogue with the documents issued by the 
offices of the Emperor, the Pope, the King of France and the King of Naples, but 


Dante’s Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 55 


Dante’s politics nonetheless remain a project of his desires and do not conclude 
in a specific political action (Limentani 133; Davis, “Dante and the Empire’’). 

Whether the poet’s idea of the empire was in support of Henry VII or 
another emperor, hope fuelled his commitment to the possibility of a world 
unified by justice and liberty. This was the point made by Giovanni Gentile in a 
lecture titled “La profezia di Dante,” delivered Feb. 17, 1918 (Studi di Dante 
69). As a literary undertaking, Dante’s political utopia was a mimesis of the 
Roman Empire as ruled ideally by Justinian (Par. 6), according to Law, not the 
military-political project of Constantine or the political-monarchical aspirations 
of the French kings who had initiated the crusades (Schildgen, “Dante and the 
Crusades”). Dante was the first to advocate the idea of a “universal temporal 
community,” which would demand the “collaboration of a completely unified 
human race” (Gilson 165-66). 

Although Convivio (4. 5) and Monarchia (1. 16) recall the historical time of 
peace when Augustus Caesar reigned, by providence contemporaneously with 
the birth of Christ, to prove why Rome should be the center of his utopian plans, 
Dante also turned to the legendary story of Aeneas and the Virgilian text. He 
features Aeneas’s miscegenated family history and Rome’s hybrid culture to 
support his argument for Rome as the heir to universal government. In other 
words, Rome’s and the Romans’ intrinsic superiority, in addition to being 
divinely supported (Convivio 4. 4), he argued, was earned by virtue and by 
hereditary right (Monarchia 2-3) (Silverstein). Rome was uniquely situated to 
take on leadership of the world because its exemplary “nobility” was its “hybrid” 
inheritance. Dante argued that through Aeneas Rome combined all three 
continents (Asia, Europe, and Africa), thus moving the center of the world, in 
Dante’s view, to Italy through hereditary rights and miscegenation. Dante 
rereads history through poeta noster, Virgil, and he adopts the Roman poets’ 
imperium as his literary project, even though some of these poets were clearly 
less optimistic about these universal ideals than Dante. Thus Dante adopts the 
idea of the Roman Empire of his Roman forbears, but his attitude towards it 
differs. While the Roman poets proclaim it, they simultaneously veil their 
proclamations with unresolved tensions about its goals and achievements, 
whereas Dante uses it as his symbolic geo-political utopia that he wishes his own 
world to imitate. 


The Legacy of Virgil 

Critics generally agree that the Roman poets share a common pessimism about 
human behavior, particularly in the political sphere, which called into question 
the goals of the Empire.* This pessimism in his poetic forebears may indeed lie 


4 Those who have taken up these tensions in the Roman poets include Leach 191; 
Johnson, Darkness Visible, whose thesis is the visible darkness in Virgil’s poem; Conte 


56 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


behind Dante’s confinement of “le gente di molto valore” (/nf. 4, 44) to Limbo. 
Virgil himself tells Dante that he and the others are there for no other fault (“non 
per altro rio” /nf. 4, 40) than that they did not adore God properly. Now they live 
in desire without hope, a fitting contrapasso for those who lived without hope 
but with desire in life: 


Es’ e’ furon dinanzi al cristianesmo 
non adorar debitamente a Dio: 
e di questi cotai son io medesmo. 
Per tal difetti, non per altro rio, 
semo perduti, e sol di tanto offesi 
che sanza speme vivemo in disio. 
(Inferno 4, 37-42) 


Because Christian political optimism and hope in Orosian historiography was 
linked to the Roman imperium, this living without hope distances the Roman 
poets from Dante’s idea of a redeemed history. It is true that the added pathos of 
Dante’s parting from his maestro in Purgatorio 27 provides a substantial 
aesthetic reason for assigning Virgil to Limbo. But the tragic, or hopeless, and 
ultimately Stoic view of history that Virgil reveals in his poem might also help 
explain why Dante’s Virgil ends up in Limbo along with all the other Roman 
poets who concomitantly shared Virgil’s misgivings about the Empire. 

Dante deviates from medieval writers who allegorized Virgil and made him 
a hidden Christian. This reading habit was based on Eclogue 4, which seemed to 
prophesy the coming of the savior and also on allegorical readings of the Aeneid 
that heralded a triumphant Christian Rome.> Hollander and others are correct in 





141-84: Segal: Galinsky 210-61; DuBois 28-51: Armstrong 93-116; Quint 21-96; and 
Johnson, Momentary Monsters. 

> The range of readings of Virgil in the long millennium called the Middle Ages is 
expansive. Besides the interpretation that he was a prophet of Christianity, those readings 
also include allegorizations of the Aeneid, as for example. by Fulgentius, the fourth 
century Macrobius, followed later by the twelfth century Bernardus Silvestris, both of 
whom advance neo-platonic readings. Servius’s fourth-century commentary adopted a 
more literal approach, whereas the twelfth-century John of Salisbury’s discussion of the 
Aeneid in Policratici | and Il, as Augustine’s earlier use and reference to Virgil, reveal an 
intense appreciation of his poetry, which could prove philosophically useful. One might 
also include here Dante’s Monarchia, which, while interpreting Virgil’s poem, makes it a 
political allegory for the founding of Rome as part of God’s providential plan. For a 
recent and thorough summary work on these readings, see Courcelle and Pierre and 
Jeanne Courcelle. For readings of Virgil in the Middle Ages, see Comparetti’s still 
outstanding survey: for Servius’s commentary, see Thomas; de Lubac 233-62. Hollander 
surveys the late classical and later traditions for reading Virgil, which included 
literal/historical, allegorical, and moral (Donatus, Servius, Macrobius, Fulgentius, 
Prudentius, Augustine, Jerome, Isidore of Seville. and Bernardus Silvestris) in Jacoff and 


Dante's Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 57 


arguing that Dante’s Virgil is “first and foremost the Virgil of the Aeneid and not 
the Virgil of the commentators” (Allegory 96). Particularly in the Commedia 
where he quotes the Aeneid frequently, the acuity of Dante’s reading habits 
makes it very evident that he has moved beyond the commentaries circulating in 
his times. His reading is not the literal Virgil of Servius, nor the allegorical 
reading of Fulgentius, nor the neo-platonist allegory of Bernardus Silvestris, 
although hints of all of these can be seen in the Commedia.® Dante’s reading of 
Virgil shares with Saint Augustine’s a great appreciation for the lyric power of 
Virgil’s poetry (Hagendahl): 


“Or se’ tu quel Virgilio e quella fonte 
che spandi di parlar si largo fiume?” 


“Tu se’ lo mio maestro e *] mio autore, 
tu se’ solo colui da cu’ io tolsi 
lo bello stilo che m’ha fatto onore” 
(Inf: 1, 79-80, 85-87) 


Dante has in common with Augustine also a similar habit of reading the 
Aeneid as history. In the Monarchia, Dante freely uses Virgil’s story of Aeneas’s 
conquest of Latium to establish the superior nobility of the Roman people and 
their right to rule the world. In the Commedia, he continues his imperial polemic, 
but he sets the story of the founding of Rome against the poet who sang its 
glories. Having Virgil label his own poem a “tragedy” (‘alta mia tragedia” /nf- 
20, 113), Dante presents his ancient friend as blind to the providential history of 
Rome. Virgil is “de li altri poeti onore e lume” (/nf. 1, 82); he is Dante’s guide 
through “la citta dolente”; he is “il lume” (Purg. 22, 68) to whom Statius could 
say, “Per te poeta fui, per te cristiano” (Purg. 22, 73). However, he is confined 
to a permanent “esilio,” rhymed with “Virgilio” (Par. 26, 116, 118), to where, as 
Adam says, Dante’s lady moved him (“mosse tua donna” Par. 26, 118), perhaps 
an ironic use of the word, since Virgil can never move (Barolini, Dante’s Poets 
253; Allan; Barolini, “Q.”). 


Schnapp 96-103. Of Dante’s reading he writes, “the major impulse behind Dante’s sense 
of Virgil springs from his reading Virgil as Virgil ‘read’ himself; treating the literal sense 
as the record of actual events” (103). See also Mazzoni, “Saggio” 29-206; Hollander, 
“Dante’s Misreadings” 79-93; 265-270; Padoan; Iannucci 69-128; DuBois 28-51; 
Barolini, The Undivine Comedy 76-80; see also Hollander, “I! Virgilio dantesco.” For the 
role of tensions between Augustine’s critique of Virgil’s poem and Dante’s undermining 
of Virgil, see Mazzotta, Dante, Poet of the Desert 147-91; Paratore; Pasquazi 45-69; 
Hollander, “The Tragedy” 131-218. 

© Hollander, Allegory 92-103; see also Ronconi, who concludes that “Dante sa che 
scrittori cristiani, da Lattanzio a Prudenzio a Abelardo, intesero l’ecloga come profetica; 
ma il pari di S. Girolamo non crede a un Virgilio ‘cristiano senza cristo’” (570). 


58 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


Dante’s Redeemed Pagans 

The criterion for the salvation of the pagans in Dante’s poem provides an 
important clue to his own theology of salvation for the ancient world. In 
Paradiso 19 and 20, Dante takes up his own concern about whether there is 
salvation outside of Christianity (Jacomuzzi). Canto 20, with the appearance of 
Ripheus, a pre-Christian pagan character (68) from Virgil’s Aeneid (II. 339, 394, 
and 426-27), and Trajan, a post-Christian pagan (44-45), introduces a question 
about salvation outside of Christian time (Foster; Russo; Schildgen, “Dante and 
the Indus’). Likewise, the appearance of Cato, a pagan suicide and supporter of 
the Roman Republic in Purgatorio | and 2, unsettles any convictions that the 
poem conforms to a narrow version of Christianity. The presence of these figures 
on the way to salvation, or already saved souls, disrupts the claims to an 
exclusively Judeo-Christian heaven. When we consider both whom among the 
pagans Dante chose to save and whom he praised while leaving in silence their 
places in the afterlife, we can see an interesting pattern. In fact, Capéran suggests 
that Dante is more restrictive on the salvation of pagans than the theology of his 
own time gave him license to be (206-12). Therefore, we have to look for some 
special reasons for his choices. In Paradiso 20, Dante hints at what 
characteristics single out the saved pagans. Speaking of Trajan, Dante has the 
Eagle say, 


“Ché Puna de lo ’nferno, u’ non si riede 
gia mai a buon voler, torno a | ossa; 
e cid di viva spene fu mercede: 
di viva spene, che mise la possa 
ne’ prieghi fatti a Dio per suscitarla, 
si che potesse sua voglia esser mossa.” 
(Par. 20, 106-111) 


The other, Ripheus, “tutto suo amor la gill pose a drittura” (20, 121). Thus, 
the first, Dante doubly emphasizes, possessed living hope, whereas the second, 
also given over to righteousness, possessed hope and love. What made these 
figures unique was their openness and commitment to hope and to love. His 
emphasis on love and hope (rather than the Roman cardinal virtues alone) points 
to the criteria Dante has elected to decide which pagans to save and which to 
leave in Limbo; their selection reflects this dispensation. 

Dante sends Statius, who stands in poetic opposition to Virgil, who is not 
saved, to heaven. Like Ripheus, Cato, and Trajan, Statius was deeply committed 
to the good of the state, and, with Domitian’s patronage, he was a strong 


Dante's Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 59 


supporter of the Empire.’ While claiming that Virgil’s poetry made him both a 
poet and a Christian, Statius nonetheless is very different from Virgil. But 
although his poetry, like Virgil’s, condemns Greek violence and treachery, in 
focusing on Greek failures Statius’s poetry lacks Virgil’s pessimistic concern 
with the generalized human incapacity to control impulses, an emotional 
handicap that Virgil places at the heart of history’s blindness in the Aeneid. 
Virgil’s position follows from the Stoic legacy that informs the poetry of all his 
Roman poetic companions in Limbo. 

Although Stoicism in particular experienced a rebirth in the Renaissance, 
and Seneca’s importance in the later period is well established (Pena; Daraki; 
Colish; Verbeke 1-19), it has not been generally recognized how widespread 
both Stoic and Epicurean ideas were in the Middle Ages. Cicero and Seneca 
were the two most important sources of Stoic ideas throughout the Middle Ages, 
but Ovid, Lucan, Horace, and Virgil all show interest in one or the other 
philosophy. Virgil’s hint about the transmigration of souls in Book VI of the 
Aeneid (724-51) links him with Platonism and Stoic ethics, and his sense of 
ineluctable and destructive forces, whether of human passions or of divine 
origin, likewise links him with Stoicism. In the tradition of the Stoic critique of 
Roman and Macedonian imperial aggrandizement, Lucan’s Book 10 of the 
Pharsalia reflects this Stoic conviction. The Pythagorean discourse of Book 15 
in the Metamorphoses exposes Epicureanism as Ovid contrasts Pythagorean 
philosophy’s Stoic ethic to Epicurean pleasure (15, 59-478). Padoan had argued 
that Dante used Fulgentius to develop an allegorical reading of Statius’s 
Thebaid, whereby Theseus as hero became a figure for Christ. More convincing 
is Barolini’s argument that Statius identifies himself with providential history 
because he says, echoing Virgil’s “buon Augusto” (/nf. 1, 71), that he was born 
under “| buon Tito” (Purg. 21, 82; on this issue see: Barolini, Dante’s Poets 
263; Di Scipio 85-86). Dante identifies Titus as one of the critical emperors in 
Justinian’s providential history of Rome (Par. 6, 92). Thus one dimension of 
Dante’s decision to save Statius is not merely his support of the Empire, but 
recognition that he represents an optimistic view of history, which saw the 
founding of Rome and the pacification of the Mediterranean basin by Romans as 
central moments in salvation history. 

Ripheus — ‘“Cadit et Ripheus, iustissimus unus / qui fuit in Teucris et 
servantissimus aequi” (“Ripheus, too, falls, foremost in justice among the 


7 This fact was known in the Middle Ages because all medieval Statius manuscripts 
identified him with the reign of Domitian. For discussions of Statius and his Christianity, 
see Brugnoli, “Stazio in Dante” who argued that Statius’s Christianity was an invention 
of Dante’s. But in a more recent article he argues that, though he believes that Dante had 
special reasons for making Statius Christian, it was not his invention (“Lo Stazio”). See 
also Barolini, Dante's Poets 256-69; Heilbron; Padoan argues that for Dante, Statius’s 
hero Theseus was a type of Christ figure (134-36). 


60 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


Trojans, and most zealous for the right” Aeneid Il, 426-27) — is among the just 
rulers in Paradiso (20, 68). As a Trojan noted, according to Virgil, for justice, 
Ripheus belongs to a select group of moral pre-Christian pagans whose people 
would participate in the providential founding of Rome. On the other hand, 
Dante recalls the emperor Trajan (b. 53, d. 117; reigned 98-117) who lived after 
Christ’s birth as the emperor “il cui valore / mosse Gregorio e la sua gran 
vittoria” (“whose worth moved Gregory to his great victory” Purg. 10, 74-75). 
Trajan’s story was actually a celebrated exemplum of the possibility of the 
salvation of pagans in the period, because believing that Trajan could be saved, 
even after death, left open the possibility that any model pagan could also be 
saved (Capéran 167-68). A medieval tradition recorded in Vincent of Beauvais’s 
Speculum Historiale (X1. 46; XXIII. 22) and told in the Vita S. Gregorii Magni 
of Paulus Diaconus, held that Pope Gregory the Great (590-604), seeing the 
famous story of a widow’s appeal on Trajan’s column, was so “moved” that he 
prayed that Trajan be released from hell (Vickers). John of Salisbury’s 
Policraticus refers to Trajan as “Gloriam tamen militarem moderatione 
superavit, Romae et per provincias omnibus se aequalem exhibens” (“By 
moderation he has risen above military glory both at Rome and throughout the 
provinces, showing himself fair to all” Policraticus 1.V.8). Thomas Aquinas 
praises him in the same way (Swmma III, suppl.71.5). Tradition held that Trajan 
had responded with generosity and a sense of justice to the woman whose son 
had been killed. Dante writes, “Or ti conforta; ch’ei convene / ch!’ solva il mio 
dovere anzi ch’i’ mova:/ giustizia vuole e pieta mi ritene” (Purg. 10, 91-93). 
Dante’s version of Trajan suggests the influence of John of Salisbury’s 
Policraticus where he receives an encomium for his ideal leadership which 
concludes, ‘“Felicior Augusto, melior sis Traiano” (“Happier than Augustus, 
better than Trajan”) Dante characterizes Trajan with essential Roman virtues, 
“giustizia” and “pieta,’ both celebrated in Virgil’s Aeneid as ideals, but 


8 “Gloriam tamen militarem moderatione superavit, Romae tamen et per provincias 
omnibus se aequalem exhibens, amicos salutandi causa frequentans vel egrotantes vel 
festis diebus, cum eisdem indiscreta vicissim habens convivia, vehiculis eorum et 
vestibus indifferenter utens, publice et privatim ditans omnes, immunitates civitatibus 
largiens, relaxans tributa provinciis, nulli gravis, carus omnibus, adeo et usque ad nosram 
etatem in senatu non aliter principibus acclametur: Felicior Augusto, melior sis Traiano!” 
“Quare Traianus videatur omnibus praeferendus” (By moderation he has risen above 
military glory, both in Rome and throughout the provinces showing himself the equal of 
all. For the sake of greeting friends he spent time with the sick, and on festive days he, 
more than once, gave them all a place at the dinner table. He would ride in their carts and 
dress like them. Publicly and privately he would enrich all, bestowing exemptions on 
citizens, reducing taxes in the provinces. He was heavy-handed with none, dear to all. So 
that even in our day in the Senate, leaders are acclaimed in no other way than, “You are 
happier than Augustus, better than Trajan’” Policraticus 1. 315). 


Dante's Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 61 


transformed and translated into Dante’s own ideological idiom.? Like Ripheus, 
Trajan finds himself among the just rulers in Dante’s heaven (Par. 20, 44-45). 

But there is another feature to Trajan that cannot be casually overlooked. 
Not only was the story of Trajan’s generosity to the widow widespread, but so 
too was the conviction that his sins had been remitted as a consequence. Thus 
Thomas Aquinas wrote “quod Traianus precibus beati Gregorii ad vitam fuerit 
revocatus et ita gratiam consecutus sit, per quam remissionem peccatorum habuit 
et per consequens immunitatem a poena” (“that by the prayers of blessed 
Gregory Trajan would be called back to life and thus attain the grace through 
which he had the forgiveness of sin and consequently freedom from punishment” 
Summa Ill, supp. 71, 5). Repeating John of Salisbury’s “Felicior Augusto, melior 
sis Traiano” (Comentum II] 285), Benvenuto da Imola’s gloss points to the 
virtues “umilta” and “giustizia” in Trajan: “certe maxima humiliatio fuit quod 
altissimus princeps ita inclinaret imperatoriam maiestatem ad audiendam 
mulierculam plorantem, sub superbis signis, in campo martio superbo, inter 
equites superbos” (‘certainly greater was that humiliation whereby the highest 
emperor so bent down his imperial majesty to hear the simple woman begging 
beneath the exalted emblems, in the exalted martian field, among his exalted 
knights” Comentum III 288-89). 

Even though Dante clearly associated Trajan with this story of the widow, 
which he uses as a circumlocution for talking about him without naming him, 
“colui che pit’ al becco mi s’accosta,/ la vedovella consolo del figlio” (Par. 20, 
44-45), Trajan was equally famous for restoring the Empire from decadence, a 
history celebrated on Trajan’s Column in Rome and recorded in Orosius and 
repeated by John of Salisbury in Policraticus. The column had survived, 
tradition held, because Gregory had seen the story of the widow carved into it, 
which led to his concern for Trajan. Orosius writes that Trajan was selected 
when Nerva recognized that the state was decadent and almost in ruins, “qua 
quondam legerat Nerva Hispanum virum Traianum, per quem respublica 
reparata est [...]” (“with which Nerva had chosen the Spaniard Trajan, through 
whom the state was restored” VII.34, 2). Thus Trajan is a figure who represents 
the idea of rulership based on worthiness, rather than on inheritance, a position 
Dante also had argued in Convivio, for which he gives the example of Hugh 
Capet, “figliuol d’un beccaio di Parigi” (Purg. 20, 52), and which Cacciaguida 
also supports in Par. 16. Furthermore, Orosius emphasizes Trajan’s role in 
pacifying the Roman territories, for under Trajan the Empire reached its largest 
expansion, including not just the Mediterranean basin but Gaul, Britannia, 
Germania, the Euphrates and Tigris river basins, Seleucia, and Babylonia. 
Orosius conferred divine intervention on Trajan’s reign because Nerva’s 





9 See Garrison for a history and analysis of the use of pietas and iustitia from the ancient 
Romans to Dryden; Ball; Silverstein for the importance of pietas in the De Monarchia 
(192-94); Hollander and Rossi also discuss Roman republican virtues (69-75). 


62 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


selection of Trajan as his adoptive son and heir was “per quem revera adflictae 
reipublicae divina provisione consuluit” (“through whom by divine foresight the 
good of the state so severely wounded was restored” VII, 11,1). Thus Trajan’s 
story combines four central issues for Dante: divine and providential interest in 
history which led to the pacification and expansion of the Empire; rule based on 
worth rather than blood; and commitment to the people of the Empire exercised 
with the Roman civic virtues of humility and justice. 

Dante has no precedent for placing Cato (95-46 BC), a supporter of the 
Roman Republic, in Purgatory. Silverstein drew attention to how Dante deviated 
from standard views on Cato in the Middle Ages. He wrote, “Dante’s estimation 
of the suicide of Utica thus appears in opposition to that of his Christian sources, 
preferring the eulogies of Cicero, Seneca, and the other ancient authorities to the 
dispraise and silence of Augustine and Tolomeo and untouched by the cool 
reserve of John of Salisbury” (208; Hollander and Rossi 63-64). But Cato, the 
lawgiver, like Ripheus and Trajan, is famous for his commitment to liberty, a 
Roman virtue central to Dante’s utopian political vision.!° In the Monarchia, 
Dante singles out those 


qui pro salute publica devotas animas posuerunt, ut Livius, non quantum est dignum, sed 
quantum potest, glorificando renarrat; accedit et illud inenarrabile sacrifitium severissimi 
libertatis tutoris Marci Catonis. Quorum alteri pro salute patrie mortis tenebras non 
horruerunt; alter, ut mundo libertatis amores accenderet, quanti libertas esset ostendit, 
dum e vita liber decedere maluit quam sine libertate manere in illa. 

(Monarchia 2.5: 15) 
(who laid down their lives dedicated to the salvation of the community, as Livy relates to 
their glory, not in terms worthy of them but as best he can; and that sacrifice [words 
cannot express it] of the most stern guardian of liberty, Marcus Cato. The former for the 
deliverance of their fatherland did not recoil from the shadows of death; the latter, in 
order to set the world afire with love and freedom, showed the value of freedom when he 
preferred to die a free man rather than remain alive without freedom.) 


Thomas Aquinas (Summa 5, Il, II, q.64; II, I, q. 125 a.2; III, q. 47, a. 6) and 
Augustine (Cité de Dieu, 1, XVII-XXIII, XXVII) both recalled Cato as a figure 
who exemplified the value of liberty, and John of Salisbury in the Policraticus 
remarked that he was a venerable image of virtue (I, 197). As the first figure 
Dante sees on entering Purgatory, he represents the absolute justice of God, for 
Whom distinctions between suicide and self-sacrifice, political liberty and 


10 Mazzotta remains by far the best discussion of Cato in the Comedy (14-65). A brief 
list of critical studies of Cato in the Comedy includes Pasquazi (A//'eterno 175-94), who 
gives an overview of the critical discussion concluding that Cato represents “il valore 
della liberta” (179). Sanguineti argues that Cato represents a fusion of the Christian idea 
of the freedom of the will and an ideal free political regime (125-47). See also Pézard, 
“Le Chant” 175-90; Renucci 296-311; Auerbach 11-76; Kaske 1-18. 


Dante’s Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 63 


absolute liberty are more subtle than the human intellect can easily comprehend. 
Thus, Dante presents Cato’s suicide as a heroic act, because it was not out of 
selfishness but out of selfless love of liberty for his country. Cato does not 
appear at the beginning of Purgatorio as a type of the future-saved pagans, as 
Auerbach argued in “Figura” (11-76). In contrast to Brutus and Cassius, who 
chose civil war when faced with what they perceived as tyranny and suicide 
when their efforts failed, Cato chose suicide rather than the betrayal of liberty. 
As Dante put it, quoting Cicero: “[...] and he had always persisted in any resolve 
or plan he had undertaken, it was fitting that he should die rather than set eyes on 
the face of the tyrant” (‘[...] semperque in proposito susceptoque consilio 
permansisset, moriendum ei potius quam tyrampni vultus aspiciendus fuit” 
Monarchia, 2.5: 17). 

Such a sacrifice — “‘illud inenarrabile sacrifitium severissimi libertatis 
tutoris Marci Catonis” (Mon. 2:5:15) — makes Cato the typological opposite to 
Brutus and Cassius, the betrayers of liberty and the creators of universal schism, 
whom Dante has just seen in the mouths of Satan (/nf. 34). In an act of 
transcendent hope, “To set the world afire with love of freedom” (Mon. 2.5: 15), 
Cato had chosen death at his own hands. As the guardian of the gates of 
Purgatory and as lawgiver, Cato exemplifies hope spurred by Roman civic 
virtue, the foundation of a new world based on law and liberty, limits and 
freedom, although they are interdependent and ruled by the human will. In the 
Pharsalia, Lucan presents Cato as willing to sacrifice his own life if his death 
could save his people from civil war (2:312). Dante’s act of saving Cato shows 
Roman history can be made consistent with providential history (Mazzotta 21, 
59), for like Dante’s Trajan and Ripheus, Cato too believed in justice and liberty, 
virtues central to romanitas. Thus, rather than ultimately undermining Empire, 
Cato’s suicide is providential because Roman political ideals and the good of the 
state inspired it. 

In saving some pagans, Dante chooses those figures that supported the 
values that he has assigned to Rome as Republic and as Empire. He connects the 
ideal goals and achievements of the Empire with its model citizens: Ripheus, as 
an exemplary just Trojan, a type of the future Roman; Cato, as one who 
condemns the curse of civil war and symbolizes the Roman civic virtue of 
“liberty”; Statius, supporter of the Empire; and Trajan, exemplary restorer of the 
Empire’s boundaries and model of justice and piety. Although not a strong 
argument, because it argues from silence, one cannot help wondering, given 
Dante’s apparent criteria for selecting pagans for salvation, whether indeed he 
did leave open a space for Augustus Caesar and for Livy, “che non erra” (/nf. 28, 
12). Both, after all, practiced Roman civic virtue and supported the stability of 
the imperium, which brought an end to civil war and ushered in an age of peace. 
In contrast, Virgil, Lucan, Ovid, Seneca, Cicero, and Horace shared the same 
profound doubts about the providentiality of the Empire, for as Virgil says of 
himself and his co-residents in Limbo, “non adorar debitamente a Dio: / e di 


64 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


questi cotai son io medesmo” (/nf. 4, 38-39). In their case, baptism or being born 
before Christ (/nf. 4, 35-37) may not indeed be their central deficiency. Rather, 
not only in the present do “sanza speme vivemo in disio” (/nf. 4, 42), but indeed, 
this pessimism characterized how they had actually lived. Dante is seized by 
sadness when he hears of Virgil’s and the other ancient luminaries’ mutual fate, 
for their suspension — “pero che gente di molto valore / conobbi che ’n quel 
limbo eran sospesi” (/nf. 4, 44-45) — is, according to Dante’s view, like the 
hopelessness of their vision of human history. 

Dante took the Roman Empire as represented by the Roman poets and 
transformed it into his political ideal, but in his attempt to see divine providence 
as history’s director, he condemned his poets’ pessimism and replaced it with his 
own visionary geo-political theory. He confined his great lights, of whom he 
made himself a joyful associate, to Limbo because of their blindness, but 
specifically he singled out other Romans for salvation whom he made co- 
partners in his own vision. Dante’s utopian political vision put faith in a history 
guided by divine providence, whereas in reading his great literary forebears, he 
recognized that they did not share this hope. 

Returning to the ethical theme undertaken in this discussion, it is in Dante’s 
contrast between saved pagans and those he assigns to Limbo that he clarifies the 
criteria for his poetic choices. As Agamben, rephrasing Aquinas wrote, “the 
inhabitants of Limbo do not receive an afflictive punishment, like that of hell, 
but only a punishment of privation that consists in the perpetual lack of vision of 
God” (11). The ethical principle operating here is that salvation is both the 
experience of and the reward for those whose just actions are inspired by hope. 


University of California, Davis 


Works Cited 


Abelard, Peter. /ntroductio ad Theologiam, Theologia Christiana, Expositio in Epistola 
ad Romanos. PL 178. Cols. 783-1330. Ed. J.-P. Migne. Paris: Petit-Montrouge, 
1855. 

Agamben, Giorgio. The Coming Community. Trans. Michael Hardt. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1993. 

Albertus Magnus. Commentarii in tertium libri sententiarum. Vol. 28. Opera Omnia. Ed. 
A. Borgnet. Paris: Vives, 1894. 

Allan, Mobray. “Does Dante Hope for Virgil’s Salvation?” Modern Language Notes 104 
(1989): 193-205. 

Armour, Peter. Dante's Griffin and the History of the World: A Study of the Earthly 
Paradise (Purgatorio, cantos 29-33). Oxford: Clarendon, 1989. 

Armstrong, David. Horace. New Haven: Yale UP, 1989. 

Auerbach, Erich. “Figura.” Scenes from the Drama of European Literature: Six Essays. 
Trans. Ralph Manheim. New York: Meridian Books, 1959. 11-76. 


Dante's Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 65 


Augustine. De Vera Religione. Ed. K. -D Daur. CCSL 32. Turnhout: Brepols, 1962. 169- 
260. 

. La Cité de Dieu. Ed. G. Bardy. Vols. 33-37 Bibliotheque Augustiniennes. Paris: 
Desclée de Brouwer, 1959-1960. 

. Retractiones. Ed. Almut Mutzenbecher. CCSL 57. Turnhout: Brepols, 1984. 

. Serm. 341. Col. 1499-1500. PL 39. Ed. J.-P. Migne. Paris: Petit-Montrouge, 
1855. 

Ball, Robert. “Theological Semantics: Virgil’s pietas and Dante’s pieta.” Stanford Italian 
Review 2.1 (1981): 59-80. Rpt. in Jacoff and Schnapp 19-36. 

Barbi, Michele. Problemi fondamentali per un nuovo commento della Divina Commedia. 
Firenze: Sansoni, 1955. 

Barolini, Teodolinda. “Q.: Does Dante Hope for Vergil’s Salvation? A.: Why Do We 
Care? For the Very Reason We Should Not Ask the Question.” Modern Language 
Notes 105 (1990): 138-44, 147-49. 

. Dante's Poets: Textuality and Truth in the Comedy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1984. 
. The Undivine Comedy. Detheologizing Dante. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1992. 

Benvenuto de Rambaldis di Imola) Comentum super Dantis Aldigherij Comoediam, 
sumptibus Guilielmi Warren Vernon, curante Jacobo Philippo Lacaita. 5 vols. 
Firenze: Typis G. Barbera, 1887. 

Bernard of Clairvaux. De Consideratione. Vol. 3. Opera. Ed. J. Leclerq and H. M. 
Rochais. Roma: Editiones Cistercienses, 1963. 

Bernardus Silvestris. Commentum super libros Eneidos Virgilii. Gryphiswaldae: J. Abel, 
1924. 

. Commentary on the First Six Books of Virgil’s Aeneid. Trans. Earl G. Schreiber 
and Thomas E. Maresca. Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1979. 

Bonaventure. /n tertium librum sententiarum. Vol. 4. Opera Omnia. Paris: Vives, 1865. 

Botterill, Steven. “Not of This World: Spiritual and Temporal Powers in Dante and 
Bernard of Clairveaux.” Lectura Dantis 10 (Spring 1992): 8-21. 

Brugnoli, G. “Lo Stazio di Dante in Benvenuto.” Benvenuto da Imola, lettore degli 
antichi e dei moderni. Atti del Convegno Internazionale, a cura di Pantaleo Palmieri 
e Carlo Paolazzi. Ravenna: Longo, 1991. 127-37. 

_“Stazio in Dante.” Cultura neolatina 19 (1969): 117-25. 

Capéran, Louis. Le probléme du salut des infidéles. Essai historique. Toulouse: Grand 
Séminaire, 1934. 

Capitani, Ovidio. “Il De Peccato Usure di Remigio de’ Girolami.” Studi Medievali Serie 
Terza 6.2 (1965): 537-662. 

. “Spigolatura minime sul III della Monarchia.” Chiose minime dantesche. 
Bologna: Patron, 1983. 56-82. 
. “La figurazione dell’ Aquila nel Paradiso.” Studi danteschi 32.1 (1954): 5-28 

Colish, Marcia L. The Stoic Tradition from Antiquity to the Early Middle Ages. Leiden: 
EJ! Brill; 1985. 

Comparetti, Domenico. Virgilio nel medioevo. 1895. Firenze: La nuova editrice, 1981. 

Conte, Gian Biagio. The Rhetoric of Imitation: Genre and Poetic Memory in Virgil and 
Other Poets. Trans. and ed. Charles Segal. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1986. 


66 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


Courcelle, Pierre. Lecteurs paiens et lecteurs chrétiens de |’Enéide. 2 vols. Paris: 
Gauthier-Villars, 1984. 

Courcelle, Pierre, and Jeanne Courcelle. Les manuscrits illustrés de |’Eneide du Xe au 
XVe siécle. Paris: Institut de France-Imprimerie Gauthier-Villars, 1984. 

Dante Alighieri. // Convivio (The Banquet). Trans. Richard Lansing. New York: Garland, 
1990. 

. The Divine Comedy. Ed. and trans. Charles Singleton. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1970-75. 

. Monarchia. Ed. and trans. Prue Shaw. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1995. 

Daraki, Maria. Une religiosité sans Dieu: Essai sur les stoiciens d'Athénes et Saint 
Augustin. Paris: Editions la Découverte, 1989. 

Davis, Charles T. “Dante and the Empire.” Cambridge Companion to Dante. Ed. Rachel 
Jacoff. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1993. 67-79. 

. “Dante’s Vision of History.” Dante's Italy and Other Essays. Philadelphia: U of 
Pennsylvania P, 1984. 23-41. 

. “Remigio de’ Girolami, O.P. (d. 1319) Lector of S. Maria Novella in Florence.” 
Le scuole degli ordini mendicanti. Todi: Presso |’ Accademia tudertina, 1978. 283- 
304. 

. “The Florentine Studia and Dante’s ‘Library.”” The Divine Comedy and the 
Encyclopedia of Arts and Sciences. Ed. Giuseppe Di Scipio and Aldo Scaglione. 
Amsterdam: J. Benjamins, 1988. 339-66. 

. Dante and the Idea of Rome. Oxford: Clarendon, 1957. 

De Angelis, Antonio. // concetto d'imperium e la comunita soprannazionale in Dante. 
Milan: Giuffré, 1965. 

De Lubac, Henri. “Virgile philosophe et prophéte.” Exégése médiévale. Vol. 2. Paris: 
Aubier, 1964. 233-62. 

De Matteis, Maria Consiglia. La “teologia politica comunale” di Remigio de’ Girolami. 
Bologna: Patron, 1977. 

Di Scipio, Giuseppe C. “Lectura Dantis: Purgatorio XXI.~ Canadian Journal of Italian 
Studies 15.45 (1992): 81-93. 

DuBois, Page. History, Rhetorical Description and the Epic: From Homer to Spenser. 
London: D. S. Brewer, 1982. 

Entréves, A. P. d’. Dante as a Political Thinker. Oxford: Clarendon, 1952. 

Ferrante, Joan M. The Political Vision of the Divine Comedy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1984. 

Fitzgerald, Robert. 7he Aeneid. New York: Random House, 1980. 

Fortin, Ernest L. “Introduction.” Augustine: Political Writings. Trans. Michael W. Tkacz 
and Douglas Kries. Ed. Ernest L. Fortin and Douglas Kries. Indianapolis: Hackett, 
1994. vii-xxvi. 

Foster, Kenelm. “Paradiso XIX.” Dante Studies 94 (1976): 71-90. 

Fulgentius. Liber de expositione Virgilianae continentiae in Auctores mythographi latini. 
1742. 

Galinsky, G. K. Ovid's Metamorphosis: An Introduction to the Basic Aspects. Berkeley: 
U of California P, 1975. 

Garrison, James D. Pietas from Vergil to Dryden. University Park: Pennsylvania State 
WP; 1992. 


Dante's Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 67 


Gentile, Giovanni. “La profezia di Dante.” Studi di Dante. Intro. Cesare Vasoli. Firenze: 
Le Lettere, 1990. 53-97. 

Gilson, Etienne. Dante. New York: Sheed and Ward, 1949. 

Hagendahl, Harald. Augustine and the Latin Classics. Vol. 2. Testimonia. Stockholm: 
Almquist and Wiksell, 1967. 

Hahn, Thomas. “The Indian Tradition in Western Medieval Intellectual History.” Viator 
9 (1978): 213-34. 

Heilbron, Denise. “The Prophetic Role of Statius in Dante’s Purgatory.” Dante Studies 
95 (1977): 53-67. 

Hollander, Robert, and Albert L. Rossi. “Dante’s Republican Treasury.” Dante Studies 
104 (1986). 59-82. 

Hollander, Robert. “Dante’s Misreadings of Aeneid in Inferno 20.” Jacoff and Schnapp 
79-93. 

. “Il Virgilio dantesco: tragedia nella Commedia.” Firenze: Leo S. Olschki, 1983. 
Translation from “Tragedy in Dante’s Comedy.” Sewanee Review 91.2 (Spring 
1983): 240-60. 

. “The Tragedy of Divination in Inf. XX.” Studies in Dante. Ravenna: Longo, 
1980. 131-218. 

. Allegory in Dante's Comedy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1969. 

Hugh of Saint Victor. De Sacramentis christianae fidei. Trans. Roy J. Deferrari. 
Cambridge, Mass.: Medieval Academy of America, 1951. 

Iannucci, Amilcare. “Limbo: The Emptiness of Time.” Studi danteschi 52 (1979-80): 69- 
128. 

Jacoff, Rachel, and Jeffrey Schnapp, eds. The Poetry of Allusion. Palo Alto: Stanford UP, 
1991, 

Jacomuzzi, Angelo. “I] canto XIX del Paradiso.” L'Alighieri 14.1 (1973): 3-24. 

John of Salisbury. Policratici. Vols. 1 and 2. Ed. Clemens C. I. Webb. Oxford: 
Clarendon, 1909. 

Johnson W. R. Momentary Monsters: Lucan and His Heroes. \thaca: Cornell UP, 1987. 

. Darkness Visible: A Study of Virgil’s Aeneid. Berkeley: U of California P, 1976. 

Kantorowicz, Ernst. The King’s Two Bodies: A Study in Medieval Political Theology. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1957. 

Kaske, Carol V. “Mount Sinai and Dante’s Mount Purgatory.” Dante Studies 89 (1971): 
1-18. 
Leach, Eleanor Winsor. The Rhetoric of Space: Literary and Artistic Representations of 
Landscape in Republican and Augustan Rome. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1988. 
Limentani, Uberto. “Dante’s Political Thought.” The Mind of Dante. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1965. 113-37. 

Lucan. Pharsalia. 

Macrobius. Commentarium in Somnium Scipionis. Ed. J. Willis. Leipzig: B.G. Teubner, 
1970. 

Martellotti, Guido. “Dante e i classici.” Cultura e scuola 4.13-14 (Jan.-June 1965): 125- 
37. 

Mazzoni, Francesco. “Saggio di un nuovo commento alla Commedia: 11 canto IV del 
Inferno.” Studi danteschi 42 (1965): 29-206. 


68 Brenda Deen Schildgen 


. “Teoresi e prassi in Dante politico.” Introduction. Dante Alighieri, Monarchia, 
Epistole politiche. Torino: ERI, 1966. 9-111. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

Moore, E. Studies in Dante. Oxford: Clarendon, 1896. 

Nardi, Bruno. “II concetto dell’ impero nello svolgimento del pensiero dantesco.” Saggi 
di filosofia dantesca. 2" ed. Firenze: Nuova Italia, 1967. 215-75. 

. “Intorno ad una nuova interpretazione del terzo libro della Monarchia 
dantesca.” Dal Convivio alla Commedia: Sei saggi danteschi. Roma: Nella Sede 
dell’ Istituto, 1960. 151-313. 

Orosius. Histoires (Contre les Paiens). 3 vols. Ed. Marie-Pierre Arnaud-Lindet. Paris: 
Les Belles Lettres, 1990-91. 

. Seven Books Against the Pagans. Trans. Roy J. Deferarri. Washington: Catholic 
U of America P, 1964. 

Padoan, Giorgio. // pio Enea, |'empio Ulisse. Ravenna: Longo, 1977. 

Paratore, E. Virgilio nell’eta di Dante. Roma: Casa di Dante, 1982. 

Pasquazi, Silvio. All'eterno dal tempo. 

“Il Virgilio di Dante.” D'Egitto in lerusalemme. Roma: Bulzoni, 1985. 45-69. 

Pena, Marc. Le stoicisme et l’empire romain: Historicité et permanences. Aix-en- 
Provence: Presses universitaires d’Aix-Marseilles, 1990. 333-75. 

Pézard, André. “Le chant premier du Purgatoire.” 

. “Du Policraticus ala Divine Comédie.” Romania 70 (1948-49): 1-36, 163-91. 

Publius Ovidius Naso. Fastorum libri sex. Vol. 1. Ed., trans.. and comm. Sir James 
George Frazer. 1929. New York: Georg Olms, 1973. 

Quint, David. Epic and Empire: Politics and Generic Form from Virgil to Milton. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 

Renucci, Paul. Dante disciple et juge du monde gréco-latin. Paris: Belles Lettres, 1954. 

Ronconi, Alessandro. “L’incontro di Stazio e Virgilio.” Cultura e Scuola 4.13-14 (Jan.- 
June 1965): 566-71. 

Russo, Vittorio. “Paradiso XIX. similis fictio numquam facta fuit per aliquem poetam.” 
Dante Studies 101 (1983): 87-110. 

Sanguineti, Edoardo. Dante reazionario. Roma: Riuniti, 1992. 

Schildgen, Brenda Deen. “Dante and the Crusades. Dante Studies 116 (1998): 95-125. 

. “Dante and the Indus.” Dante Studies 111 (1993): 177-93. 

Schnapp, Jeffrey T. The Transfiguration of History at the Center of Dante's Paradise. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1986. 

Scott, John A. Dante's Political Purgatory. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1996. 

Segal, C. P. “Myth and Philosophy in the Metamorphosis: Ovid’s Augustanism and the 
Augustan Conclusion of Book XV.” AJP 90 (1969): 269-74. 

Servius. Serviani in Vergilii Carmina Commentatoris. Ed. A. F. Stocke et al. Oxford: 
Oxford UP, 1965. 

Silverstein, Theodore. “On the Genesis of De Monarchia, ll, v.” Dante in America: The 
First Two Centuries. Ed. A. Bartlett Giamatti. Binghamton, N.Y.: Medieval and 
Renaissance Texts and Studies, 1983. 187-218. Rpt. Specu/um 13 (1938): 326-49. 

Sistrunk, Timothy G. “Obligations of the Emperor as the Reverent Son in Dante's 
Monarchia.~ Dante Studies 105 (1987): 95-112. 


Dante's Political Values, the Roman Empire, and the Salvation of Pagans 69 


Sullivan, S. J. Frank A. Salvation Outside the Church? Tracing the History of the 
Catholic Response. New York: Paulist Press, 1992. 

Thomas Aquinas. Summa Theologica. Secunda Secundae. Vol. 3. Opera Omnia. Parma: 
Peter Fiaccadori, 1853. 

Thomas, Emile. Servius et son commentaire sur Virgile. Paris: Ernest Thorin, 1879. 

Verbeke, Gérard. The Presence of Stoicism in Medieval Thought. Washington: Catholic 
U of America, 1983. 

Vergil. Opera. Ed. R. A. B. Mynors. Oxford: Clarendon, 1969. 

Vickers, Nancy. “Seeing is Believing: Gregory, Trajan, and Dante’s Art.” Dante Studies 
101 (1983): 67-85. 

Vincent of Beauvais. Speculum Quadruplex sive Speculum Maius. Graz, Austria: 
Akademische Druck u. Verlagsanstalt, 1965. Rept. 1624 ex officina typographica 
Baltazaris Beller. 


Be 
Oo 


Se me) 6 eM eo as pe 


eae ee ee ee 
ee 
2 | 
re | ee re 
rr 


a 
oe 





_ ee 


Massimo Lollini 





Scrittura e alterita in Francesco Petrarca 


Questo saggio si inserisce in un’ampia ricerca in cui studio |’emergere del nesso 
testimonianza-scrittura-verita in alcuni aspetti significativi della filosofia 
platonica, della cultura giudaico-cristiana e della letteratura romanza.! In questo 
contesto ho considerato il ruolo esercitato da Petrarca, che a mio giudizio rimane 
decisivo non solo, come si insiste da parte della critica, nello stabilire i confini 
della letteratura e della mitologia lirica e poetica ad essa connessa, ma anche 
nell’ individuazione della scrittura come spazio etico in cui sono continuamente 
in gioco da una parte |’identita del soggetto che scrive e dall’altra l’alterita della 
donna amata e dell’esperienza vitale. Da questo punto di vista l’opera di 
Petrarca costituisce una premessa necessaria ad intendere ed apprezzare sia 1 
dibattiti attuali sull’etica della scrittura sviluppati in ambito filosofico soprattutto 
da Carlo Sini e Maurice Blanchot; sia il dibattito filosofico sull’etica come 
riconoscimento dell’alterita che si esprime nel volto dell’altro, portato avanti da 
Emmanuel Lévinas. 

Nonostante la presenza di lavori assai pregevoli e lungimiranti come La 
scrittura di Francesco Petrarca (1967) di Armando Petrucci, la critica non ée 
propensa a riconoscere il valore della riflessione sulla scrittura che si trova nelle 
opere di Petrarca. Italo Calvino era convinto che in Petrarca la scrittura non 
diventi mai vero oggetto della rappresentazione o della meditazione del poeta. 
Egli vedeva questo tipo di attenzione piuttosto in Guido Cavalcanti che nel 
sonetto “Noi siam le triste penne isbigottite” fa parlare in prima persona le 
penne e gli strumenti della propria scrittura. Si tratta di un esempio significativo 
in cui la scrittura si svela come tale rendendo lucidamente straniata la figura del 
poeta. In effetti, nel sonetto XVIII delle Rime di Cavalcanti le penne parlano in 
prima persona e sono protagonista della poesia: 


Noi siam le triste penne sbigotite, 
le cesoiuzze e ’! coltellin dolente, 
ch’avemo scritte dolorosamente 


quelle parole che vo’ avete udite 
(1-4) 


1 Ho pubblicato parte di questa ricerca ne // vuoto della forma. 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


72 Massimo Lollini 


Come si vede in questi versi il poeta non ripone la penna sul tavolo come se 
fosse la cosa pit naturale e ovvia del mondo averla e usarla. Al contrario, egli ce 
la presenta come la vera protagonista del sonetto che potrebbe essere 
considerato come un testamento ai posteri, una sorta di epigrafe a tutta la 
raccolta poetica di Cavalcanti.” 

Contini ha notato la contiguita tematica di questa poesia con gli epigrammi 
dell’ Anthologia Palatina (V1, 62-68). In realta, mentre il sonetto cavalcantiano 
produce un effetto di straniamento e puo essere letto in chiave parodica delle 
proprie sofferenze amorose, negli epigrammi dell’ Anthologia gli strumenti della 
scrittura, di cui si sottolineano la precisicne e la linearita, sono dedicati alle 
Muse, 0 a Ermes secondo una diversa intenzionalita. In altri epigrammi 
dell’ Anthologia il poeta canta le tavolette coperte di cera o altri supporti, come il 
foglio di papiro, che rendono possibile la scrittura (IX, 350; XIV, 45). In un altro 
epigramma si attribuisce Il’invenzione della scrittura alla natura che, avendo cari 
i doveri dell’amicizia, ha inventato gli strumenti attraverso cui gli amici lontani 
possono corrispondersi. In sostanza, lodando gli strumenti della propria arte alla 
maniera di un artigiano i poeti dell’ Antho/ogia rivendicano la dignita del proprio 
artigianato e pil’ precisamente dell’arte della calligrafia in un tempo in cui il 
libro era ancora un prodotto manoscritto, con un valore che non sara pit 
possibile percepire dopo I’invenzione della stampa. 

Occorre chiedersi a questo punto se I’attenzione alla scrittura che emerge in 
questi testi dell’Anthologia Palatina e nella poesia cavalcantiana presenti un 
aspetto etico e in quale senso in generale si possa parlare di un’etica della 
scrittura. In realta, in nessuno di questi esempi I’attenzione autoriflessiva rivolta 
alla scrittura sembra raggiungere il livello propriamente etico che, nella 
prospettiva sviluppata in questo saggio, appare legato non tanto all’idea di 
scrittura intesa come strumento liberamente manipolabile a disposizione del 
poeta o dello scriba, quanto piuttosto alla nozione di scrittura come orizzonte e 
soglia dell’opera e della testimonianza del poeta. Nel mio saggio considero la 
poesia e la letteratura come espressione di una testimonianza individuale che si 
esprime nella scrittura. A partire dal Fedro platonico la scrittura nella cultura 
greca e poi romanza é “scrittura dell’anima che impara’”, una scrittura dunque 
che, come I’anima, sempre si muove e aspira ad abbracciare il principio vitale 
nella sua unita indivisa (Fedro 245C e 276A). Per questa ragione chiunque 
indaghi in maniera autentica la verita attraverso la scrittura non se ne dichiara 
mai possessore e tende a considerarla un problema di metodo, indagandone le 
condizioni di funzionamento nell’esperienza dell’ individuo cosciente. 

Nella scrittura alfabetica la testimonianza si articola in una forma logica che 
rimane sempre esposta ai pericoli di dogmatismo razionale, sia quando essa si 
pone come scrittura autobiografica, sia quando assume le vesti del discorso 
scientifico, o si manifesta come ragionamento filosofico. Ma fin nelle sue origini 


2 Su questi aspetti, si veda Calvino, Saggi 361-68. 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 73 


platoniche la dimensione di assolutezza logica ed ontologica della verita viene 
limitata da una visione della filosofia che non dimentica il socratico rifiuto delle 
definizioni univoche ed assolute, sottolineando invece sia i benefici della 
maieutica che le condizioni stesse del sapere umano, i limiti entro i quali la 
conoscenza si manifesta. La stessa arte maieutica di Socrate si pone come arte 
del vuoto, come |’arte di un ostetrico che € costretto dal dio a fare da levatrice 
senza tuttavia poter generare sapienza. Non a caso |’arte di Socrate viene 
introdotta come intermezzo nel 7eereto dove si affronta la questione di fondo del 
significato della scienza (150B-151C), e ritorna nella conclusione del dialogo 
che non poteva che essere aporetica. Socrate infatti rifiuta tutte le definizioni di 
scienza e si appella direttamente alla condizione del vuoto per indicare la 
situazione ideale della ricerca filosofica: 


Ebbene, se cercherai di diventare gravido di altre cose, dopo di queste, Teeteto, e se lo 
diventerai sarai pieno, per |’attuale ricerca di cose migliori; se resterai vuoto (Kevdc) sarai 
meno pesante con quelli con cui converserai, e pili mite, perché saggiamente, non 
crederai di sapere cid che non sai. Infatti, solo tanto puo la mia arte, e nulla piu [...]. 
(210C-D) 


La filosofia non conosce il pieno delle definizioni assolute ed univoche, il 
filosofo pud essere pieno solo di meraviglia e la filosofia, aggiunge Socrate in 
questo dialogo, non ha altro cominciamento che la meraviglia (154-155). La 
possibilita della conoscenza e della verita logica e filosofica anche nel 7eefeto 
appare vincolata alla logica alfabetica della scrittura. Socrate sostiene infatti la 
possibilita di conoscere gli elementi proprio facendo riferimento all’alfabeto: per 
conoscere la sillaba € necessario avere conoscenza delle lettere (XLI 204b- 
206b). Tuttavia la definizione di ‘“conoscenza” come opinione vera 
accompagnata da ragione ricavata dalla scrittura alfabetica non appare esaustiva 
di fronte all’emergere di diverse nozioni di ragione. Il Teefefo non giunge cosi 
ad alcuna conclusione positiva e si limita a ribadire i grandi benefici della 
maieutica. 

Una volta delineato il vuoto come condizione e orizzonte della ricerca non 
stupisce poi di vedere che nel Sofista il non-essere sia dichiarato coestensivo 
all’essere e presentato come un «determinato genere che ¢ tra gli altri, 
disseminato in tutti gli enti» (257c-260b). Il filosofo, conclude Socrate, 
attraverso i suoi ragionamenti sara sempre vincolato all’idea dell’ente e della sua 
ombra, e quindi al vuoto che circonda e condiziona la sua ricerca. 

Questa dimensione filosofica della conoscenza e della scrittura ad essa 
connessa ritorna nella scrittura letteraria di Francesco Petrarca, non solo nelle 
riflessioni morali contenute nelle opere latine, ma anche nella poesia del 
Canzoniere. In questa maniera l’attenzione rivolta agli strumenti della 
conoscenza umana e in particolare |’attenzione alla scrittura come strumento che 
condiziona e determina la coscienza aprono I’attivita letteraria di Petrarca ad una 


74 Massimo Lollini 


dimensione etica, che rivela i limiti della costruzione dell’autobiografia ideale 
da lui tentata nelle sue opere a partire dal Secretum.> 


I. La scrittura dell’anima e la letteratura 

Petrarca valorizza al massimo il processo di individualizzazione reso possibile 
dalla scrittura e sviluppa la nozione di testimonianza in una direzione 
psicologica, letteraria e retorica. In generale si pud dire che egli tende a 
trasformare la scrittura in un’ipostasi di se stesso. | problemi decisivi per lui 
diventano la gloria letteraria e il culto dell’io nella vita solitaria, ma nella sua 
opera ci sono momenti di una consapevolezza etica di grande rilevanza di cui 
occorre tenere conto. Sono i momenti in cul Petrarca espone la scrittura 
all’azione del vuoto e scopre la radicale irriducibilita dell’altro da sé che si 
esprime nel volto di Laura. 

I] tema della potenza della parola per Petrarca non si riduce allo studio 
dell’eloquenza che gli é tanto caro, ma puo considerarsi anche come uno dei 
debiti che egli ha contratto verso la tradizione platonica e poi stoica. Questa 
tradizione vede la verita come espressione del moto interiore dell’anima che si 
esprime nella scrittura. Per Seneca, il discorso é il modo di esprimersi 
dell’anima: “Oratio cultus animi est: si circumtonsa est et fucata et manu facta, 
ostendit illum quoque non esse sincerum et habere aliquid fracti” (Lettere a 
Lucilio, 115, 972). In termini quasi identici scriveva il Petrarca: 


Nec enim parvus aut index animi sermo est aut sermonis moderator est animus. Alter 
pendet ex altero; ceterum ille latet in pectore, hic exit in publicum; ille comit egressurum 
et qualem esse vult fingit, hic egrediens qualis ille sit nuntiat; illius paretur arbitrio, huius 
testimonio creditur [...]. 

(Familiarum rerum libri l, 9 in Epistole 82; enfasi mia) 
(Poiché la parola non é una piccola rivelatrice dell’animo, e |’animo é il moderatore della 
parola. L’una dipende dall’altro; ma quello é nascosto nel petto, quella si presenta in 
pubblico; quello adorna quella che sta per uscir fuori e la forma come vuole; questa, 
uscendo fuori, annuncia come quello sia; al commando di quello si obbedisce, alla 
testimonianza dell’altra si crede [...].)* 


Al?anima si deve obbedire nel momento in cui la scrittura e il discorso 
testimoniano la verita dell’anima. La verita, come gia in Agostino, coincide con 
Dio stesso che parla con la voce della coscienza, soprattutto nella vita solitaria, 
ed é il testimone assoluto il quale prende il posto degli amici e dei personaggi 
illustri che nella letteratura classica rappresentano il “testimone immaginario” di 


3 F , : . . j 
Il progetto di un’ autobiografia ideale é stato studiato soprattutto da Santagata. 
Le traduzioni dal latino (comprese quelle di Sant’Agostino) sono state fatte in 
redazione e sono state controllate da me. 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 75 


cui Petrarca sente di non avere pili bisogno.> Conoscere la tradizione retorica 
puo servire ad esprimere un discorso ornato, elegante ed armonioso, ma tutto 
questo € di limitata utilita se prima non si @ conquistata una gravita, una 
coerenza e una saggezza di pensiero possibile solo ad una mente “ordinata e 
tranquilla” (“bene disposita mens, immote serenitatis placida”’). I filosofi, 
aggiunge Petrarca, hanno sempre pensato in modo diverso dai retori poiché 
mentre i primi hanno per scopo la sapienza, i secondi pensano a guadagnarsi 
l’applauso della folla (De vita solitaria Il, in Opere latine 516). 

I] linguaggio, come ogni altra creazione umana, é sottoposto alla 
temporalita e quindi si mantiene nella precarieta e nella provvisorieta, ma in un 
certo senso i libri sembrano sottrarsi alle sorti spietate del corrompimento di 
tutte le cose mondane. Nei libri si esprime la verita dell’anima, la verita della 
scrittura. A grandi testi del passato é affidato il compito di mantenere vivi i 
nobili ideali di vita spirituale e intellettuale in cui Petrarca crede, vedendoli 
tuttavia negati dal tempo presente. I classici del mondo antico si aggiungono alle 
Sacre Scritture e queste ultime continuano a godere di uno spazio privilegiato 
come accadeva nell’antica ermeneutica cristiana, ma con Petrarca la scrittura 
umana e quella divina si separano in una maniera drammatica, non ancora 
possibile per Dante.® Mentre in Dante la dignita della scrittura rimane ancora 
ancorata ad un marcato simbolismo religioso, con Petrarca, per la prima volta, la 
scrittura diventa elemento sostanziale della funzione letteraria e della creazione 
del pensiero umano. 

I] libro di Petrarca non é pit il libro di Dante in cui poteva ancora contenersi 
l’ordine intero e ordinato del cosmo. Prima ancora che I|’invenzione della stampa 
possa agire come elemento di trasformazione del concetto di testo sacro e di 
verita della scrittura, é nella filologia e nella scrittura umanistica di Petrarca che 
si inaugura una nuova forma di conoscenza, in cui la pura memorizzazione e la 
trascrizione letterale del patrimonio culturale e religioso del passato viene 
sostituita da un processo di ricerca intellettuale senza fine. In questo processo 
ogni generazione di studiosi e di scrittori cerchera di impadronirsi del passato 
prendendone le distanze, distaccandosene. Questa nuova forma di conoscenza si 
esprimera nell’acuirsi dei dibattiti ermeneutici e nella sempre pili netta funzione 
individualizzante della lettura e della scrittura che per Petrarca si esprime 
soprattutto nel teorizzare la liberta del letterato, la sua capacita di porsi al di 


5 “Habentes ergo testem Patrem iudicem, teste illo imaginario non egemus de quo alibi 
scripsi” (De vita solitaria 1, in Opere latine, 324). In una lettera al fratello Gherardo 
Petrarca aveva parlato infatti del testimone immaginario che era necessario ai filosofi 
pagani (Familiarum rerum libri X, 3). Vero testimone per il cristiano é solo Cristo, 
poiché il cristiano sa che Cristo é sempre presente nell’anima come testimone delle azioni 
umane: “Christum ipsum in abditis etiam anime penetralibus semper assistere, et quid 
illis geratur introspicere, et aperta omnia videre” (De vita solitaria |, Opere latine 328). 

6 Si veda F. Petrarca, De otio religioso, Opere latine 661. Sulla scrittura del Petrarca 
rimane fondamentale il libro di Petrucci. 


76 Massimo Lollini 


sopra delle parti e dei conflitti, grazie alla sua coscienza critica e 
all’affermazione della poesia come valore autonomo dalle distinzioni sociali e 
dalle frontiere politiche. 

La letteratura con Petrarca appare sempre pit. legata all’esperienza 
individuale grazie alla consapevole valorizzazione del meccanismo di 
individualizzazione rappresentato dalla scrittura. Questa rimane la vera 
“scoperta” di Petrarca piuttosto che la rivelazione dell’individuo in senso 
moderno. Egli € sicuramente consapevole del carattere eccezionale della sua 
personalita e della sua figura autoriale. Inoltre € vero che nella Posteritati egli 
mira a rappresentare la sua vita come un’opera d’arte e a costruirne il mito. 
Tuttavia egli non rivela compiutamente la propria individualita anche se pone le 
basi di una strategia capace di portare avanti il processo di formazione di una 
nuova individualita.’ La sua opera si mantiene entro i limiti di una cultura in cui 
’individuo e l’espressione individuale sono ancora sottoposti alle restrizioni di 
una cultura cristiana ostile alle manifestazioni individuali, a meno che non 
possano essere apprezzate per il loro carattere di exemplum.8 

L’atteggiamento di Petrarca di fronte alla scrittura e la riduzione psicologica 
e letteraria del concetto antico di testimonianza trovano una conferma esemplare 
nel Canzoniere. Qui si incontra un verso che ben si addice a descrivere non solo 
Petrarca stesso ma anche la solitudine del poeta lirico in generale, |’intreccio tra 
passioni, pensiero e scrittura che caratterizza la letteratura: in questo verso, 
Petrarca descrive se stesso «in guisa d’uom che pensi et pianga et scriva» 
(CXXIX, 50-52). Altrove Petrarca chiarisce come la sua scrittura sia legata ad 
una sorta di martirio amoroso: 


Ma pur quanto |’istoria trovo scripta 
in mezzo | cor (che si spesso rincorro) 
co la sua propria man de’ miei martiri, 
dird, perché 1 sospiri 
parlando an triegua, et al dolor soccorro. 
(CXXVII, 7-11; enfasi mia) 


Con Petrarca emerge dunque un tipo di scrittura che vuole testimoniare i sospiri 
e i turbamenti interiori del desiderio individuale, attraverso un discorso lirico il 
cui termine di esperienza é per definizione inattingibile, perché l’amata rimane 
sempre renitente. Si tratta di una scrittura che assume uno scopo consolatorio 
proprio nel momento in cui vuole fare emergere le pene d’amore scritte nel 
cuore. La parola “martirio”, che appartiene al vocabolario della testimonianza 


tempo stesso diverso da noi e deve essere compreso nelle sue qualita specifiche e uniche 
(La nascita). 

8 Petrarca stesso scrive di essere indicato come exemplum per molti altri (Canzoniere 23, 
5-14). 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 77 


religiosa, con Petrarca assume una connotazione prettamente psicologica e 
amorosa, perdendo in parte |’afflato religioso che ne accompagnava |’uso antico. 
Si tratta di una scrittura autoriflessiva che raramente raggiunge la dimensione 
propriamente etica e la capacita di produrre un incontro e di riconoscere il volto 
dell’altro da sé nella sua autentica alterita. Questo riconoscimento coincide 
sempre con una riflessione sulla scrittura come strumento che condiziona e 
determina la visione del poeta. Lo stesso verso “in guisa d’uom che pensi et 
pianga et scriva” (CXXIX, 50-52) é€ inserito nel contesto di un’implicita 
allusione a Medusa che viene collegata al tema della visione e della verita della 
scrittura: 


Poi quando il vero sgombra 
quel dolce error, pur li medesmo assido 
me freddo, pietra morta in pietra viva, 
in guisa d’uom che pensi et pianga et scriva. 
(CXXIX, 49-52) 


Le immagini confuse di una realta metamorfica, di una straordinaria bellezza 
sensuale, vengono pietrificate dallo sguardo della Medusa, dalla visione della 
verita che si esprime nella scrittura. Petrarca € convinto che la scrittura 
dell’anima miri ad una verita eterna, ad una permanenza di cid che costituisce 
l’irriducibile identita della persona di cui solo il volto umano puo essere cifra. I] 
gesto della scrittura tende a pietrificare l’esperienza vitale se non ha la capacita 
di riconoscerne I’alterita.? 


II. Il volto di Laura 

In generale si puo dire che le opere di Francesco Petrarca fanno leva su di una 
riflessione morale con al centro I’“io” che scrive e tendono a porsi come 
monumenti autobiografici a se stesso, mescolando liberamente realta e finzione. 
I modelli di saggezza che egli persegue sono quello stoico, che gli fornisce il 
tema del controllo delle passioni, e quello agostiniano, che gli consegna il tema 
fondamentale della conversione interiore e la visione dell’amore come peccato 
da cui € necessario liberarsi. Come ha mostrato Marco Santagata, la logica che 
presiede a questo progetto si manifesta nel Canzoniere  soprattutto 
nell’architettura del libro che viene costruita da un uomo nuovo che presume di 
guardare il passato in un momento in cui é lontano dalle passioni e dagli errori 
commessi. I microtesti che entrano in quell’architettura mantengono una loro 
indipendenza e il loro protagonista non coincide con I’architetto che stabilisce a 
posteriori la logica della costruzione. In questa maniera il “racconto” del 
Canzoniere finisce per lasciare aperte le tensioni, e l’immagine che il fondatore 


91 legame tra le allusioni alla Medusa e il tema della scrittura € stato colto da Robert 
Durling nella sua introduzione alla traduzione inglese del Canzoniere (30). 


78 Massimo Lollini 


della lirica moderna presenta di sé rimane contraddittoria e incompiuta 
(Santagata 249-51). 

La critica ha sinora riflettuto solo sulla volonta costruttiva che presiede alla 
scrittura petrarchesca che viene considerata solo sul piano retorico della 
rappresentazione e non su quello della riflessione etica e filosofica, sulle 
modalita e limitazioni implicite nella pratica stessa dello scrivere. In questa 
maniera sono stati individuati nel Canzoniere due “‘volti” di Laura. Da una parte 
c’é la Laura crudele e nemica, oggetto di un desiderio che non puo essere 
soddisfatto e che priva l’amante delle sue facolta rendendolo schiavo della 
passione (XXIII, 69; LXXVI, 3; LXXXIII, 13). D’altro canto abbiamo il volto 
angelico di Laura che viene rappresentata in questo caso come donna che porta 
la salvezza al suo amante. Come accadeva nella tradizione stilnovistica, a partire 
dalla canzone LXX, Laura é€ sottoposta nel Canzoniere ad una metamorfosi 
positiva e assume una qualita soprannaturale che aiuta |’amante a purificare i 
suoi sentimenti e a sollevarlo all’amore come caritas (Santagata 218-34). 

Occorre tuttavia riconoscere che nel Canzoniere la scrittura petrarchesca 
non si muove solo sul piano della rappresentazione e in certi momenti finisce 
per sviluppare una riflessione etica sul volto di Laura e sulla sua alterita 
irriducibile alla scrittura. I] riconoscimento di questa dimensione etica non 
intende mostrare la presenza nel Canzoniere di un terzo volto di Laura, né 
limitarsi ad indicare il tema della ineffabilita del volto di Laura, che pure é 
presente. L’etica della scrittura punta invece a mostrare non solo come il 
soggetto che scrive non si dia mai nella sua pienezza, ma anche come |’oggetto 
della sua rappresentazione venga problematizzato all’interno dell’atto stesso 
della scrittura senza mai potersi cogliere in maniera compiuta. I] volto 
dell’amata che il poeta continuamente “disegna con la mente” (CXXIX, 29) e 
vuole lodare “in piu di mille carte” tende ad emergere nella scrittura petrachesca 
nell’ambito di una visione platonica e cristiana dell’anima e dell’arte. Petrarca 
raggiunge una grande consapevolezza su questo punto: 


Da poi pil volte 6 riprovato indarno 
al secol che verra I’alte belleze 
pinger cantando, a cid che l’ame et preze: 
né col mio Stile il suo bel viso incarno. 
(CCCVIII, 5-8; enfasi mia) 


Dante al culmine del suo viaggio aveva provato a rappresentare il volto umano 
di Cristo, cercando di attingere al mistero della Trinita e dell’ Incarnazione 
segnando i confini della scrittura che Petrarca trova gia predisposti (Paradiso 
XXXIII, 127-45). In quest’ultimo il volto umano e quello divino prendono due 
strade distinte e il poeta abbandona il tentativo disperato di descrivere la 
perfezione del volto dell’amata che pure mantiene in sé qualcosa di angelico e di 
divino. Esemplare da questo punto di vista rimane il sonetto XVI che inizia con 
il capoverso “Movesi il vecchierel canuto et biancho”. 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 79 


La scrittura di Dante e di Petrarca mantiene una dimensione filosofica e 
razionalistica che li allontana dalla scrittura mistica e li spinge a cercare la 
bellezza divina ed umana negli elementi costitutivi della luce e dell’armonia. 
Questi elementi sono di origine religiosa se si pensa a Dio che crea |’essere 
umano ad imaginem, o alla descrizione dell’amato nel Cantico dei cantici; ma 
nei poeti come Dante e Petrarca questo elemento religioso si intreccia 
necessariamente con una dimensione filosofica e non si confonde con il discorso 
propriamente mistico. Come ha sostenuto Giovanni Pozzi la scrittura mistica 
rimane legata all’impellenza dell’oggetto dell’esperienza che, pur rimanendo 
inattingibile come quello del discorso lirico e poetico, viene tuttavia descritto nei 
due modi antitetici del nulla e del contatto fisico, “attraverso un gustare, un 
toccare, un odorare che non é della memoria ma dell’ attualita” (Pozzi 118). 

La poesia lirica tende invece ad elaborare un codice comunicativo che 
cancella ogni concreta dimensione referenziale, chiudendosi in un sistema 
autonomo di riferimenti. Non bisogna tuttavia dimenticare che il poeta rivendica 
l’unicita della sua visione: se da un lato egli non é in grado di presentare quel 
volto se non facendo ricorso a formule ripetute, d’altro canto egli € l’unico 
essere mortale che ha potuto vedere la bellezza spirituale dell’amata. II fatto che 
quella bellezza e quel volto rimangano ineffabili non sembra costituire un vero 
problema per un individuo che in certi momenti spera di essere in grado di 
riconoscere la verita intima di quel volto, la sua “‘aria”: 


Di tempo in tempo mi si fa men dura 
l’angelica figura e °| dolce riso, 
et / ‘aria del bel viso 
e degli occhi leggiadri meno oscura. 
(CXLIX, 1-4; enfasi mia) 


L’“aria del bel viso” allude a cid che costituisce il carattere irriducibile del volto 
di Laura. Altrove l’aria del viso viene chiamata “l’aura” con ulteriore omaggio 
all’amata e con chiara allusione al soffio vitale e spirituale, al pneuma, all’anima 
individuale: 


L’aura soave che dal chiaro viso 

move col suon de le parole accorte 

per far dolce sereno ovunque spira, 
quasi uno spirto gentil di paradiso 
sempre in quell’aere par che mi conforte, 


si che ‘I cor lasso altrove non respira. 
(CIX, 9-14) 


Altrove il poeta chiarisce in maniera esemplare che la forma invisibile del volto 
di Laura é l’anima. II “bel viso” terreno ha qualcosa di angelico che rende 


80 Massimo Lollini 


testimonianza al divino sulla terra, ma la sua forma vera ed eterna rimane 
invisibile e sara manifesta solo dopo la resurrezione della carne: 


Oimeé, terra € fatto il suo bel viso, 

che solea far del cielo 

et del ben di lasst fede fra noi; 

l’invisibil sua forma é in paradiso, 

disciolta di quel velo 

che qui fece ombra al fior degli anni suoi, 

per rivestirsen poi 

un’altra volta, et mai pit. non spogliarsi, 

quando alma et bella farsi 

tanto pit la vedrem, quanto pit vale 

sempiterna bellezza che mortale. 
(CCLXVIII, 34-44) 


Petrarca in questo modo mantiene una visione platonica e cristiana del volto 
dell’altro. Una visione che ne assegna Il’individualita ineffabile alla natura 
dell’anima individuale che ha la sua origine nel mondo delle idee: 


In qual parte del ciel, in quale ydea 
era l’exempio, onde Natura tolse 
quel bel viso leggiadro, in ch’ella volse 


mostrar qua git! quanto lassti potea? 
(CLIX, 1-4) 


In questo ambito di pensiero l’individualita del volto dell’altro rimane ineffabile. 
E impossibile anche tentarne un ritratto perché si tratterebbe de “L’opra [...] di 
quelle che nel cielo / si ponno imaginar, non qui tra noi, / ove le membra fanno a 
Palma velo” (LXXVII, 9-11).!9 A questa concezione che mantiene ineffabile il 
volto individuale dell’altro si accompagna la consapevolezza dell’ insufficienza 
della scrittura a rendere quel volto nella sua dimensione vera e propria. Tuttavia 
non si tratta solo di questo. II platonismo di Petrarca non consiste semplicemente 
nel dichiarare in maniera surrettizia l’impossibilita di rappresentare la bellezza 
di Laura. Si vuole insomma sottolineare che egli non si limita ad annullare il 
referente vero del volto di Laura dichiarandolo assente per poi descriverlo con 
caratteristiche generiche prese a prestito dal linguaggio lirico convenzionale, 
come la bianchezza e il rossore. Si tratta allora di riconoscere come a questo 
movimento di cancellazione dell’altro da sé, che nonostante la dichiarata 
ineffabilita viene assimilato attraverso le formule del linguaggio lirico, si 


10 Si tratta del celebre sonetto in cui Petrarca loda il ritratto di Laura dipinto da Simone 
Martini. Sull’importanza di questo sonetto per la problematica della rappresentazione 
della bellezza femminile nel Rinascimento, si veda Cropper. 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 81 


oppone la riflessione sullalterita dell’altro, sulla sua unicita irriducibile alla 
rappresentazione.!! 

Questa riflessione costituisce l’elemento  straordinario dell’esperienza 
poetica del Petrarca che in questo modo si apre ad una dimensione propriamente 
etica.!? Si tratta di una riflessione sul vuoto della forma, piuttosto che di una 
semplice vanificazione e costruzione nel vuoto di un non-oggetto assente. Si 
leggano questi versi estremamente significativi: 


Onde quant’io di lei parlai né scrissi, 
chor per lodi anzi a Dio preghi mi rende, 
fu breve stilla d’infiniti abissi: 


Ché stilo oltra l’ingegno non si stende: 
et per aver uom li occhi nel sol fissi, 
tanto si vede men quanto pit splende. 
(CCCXXXIX, 9-14; enfasi mia) 


Questo € uno dei rari momenti in cui la scrittura del Petrarca raggiunge una 
dimensione etica, nel senso di attivare un’attenzione particolare al gesto stesso 
della scrittura, riconoscendola come la pratica che rende possibile pensare il 
soggetto e la sua verita. Insieme al topos della ineffabilita che si esprime 
nell’ambito della metaforica della luce, in questi versi emerge la consapevolezza 
del carattere autoriflessivo della scrittura. Ma non si tratta solo di questo, perché 
se si trattasse di semplice autoriflessione Petrarca non farebbe che ipostatizzare 
lattivita della scrittura, considerandola semplicemente come strumento di 
registrazione delle proprie emozioni e riflessioni, senza vedervi alcuna 
implicazione etica. Invece, sostenendo che lo “stilo” non si estende oltre 
l’ingegno di chi scrive egli riconosce che la scrittura agisce come forte 
strumento di individualizzazione senza riuscire né ad esprimere un punto di vista 
extrasoggettivo, né a dare ragione degli “infiniti abissi” che si chiudono nel 
volto dell’altro. Da questo punto di vista l’infinito che si schiude nel volto 
dell’altro rimane traccia del volto divino, come si comprende bene alla fine del 
Canzoniere, la ove il poeta prega Laura, che vive beata nel cielo, affinché lo 
conduca al cospetto di Dio per dargli la possibilita di contemplare sia il suo 
volto, il volto della donna amata nella forma vera, che i! volto di Dio (CCCLXII, 
9-11).!3 


MW La problematica dell’alterita non é€ stata colta da quanti hanno studiato la 
rappresentazione di Laura nel Canzoniere. Si veda ad esempio Vickers. 

12 Questa dimensione etica non viene riconosciuta dalla critica; anche il sopramenzionato 
articolo di Giovanni Pozzi non fa eccezione. 

13 Nella dimensione della vita eterna Laura stessa pud contemplare nel volto di Dio 
l’amore che il poeta ha nutrito e nutre per lei (CCCXLVII). 


82 Massimo Lollini 


Petrarca, seguendo la grande lezione di Dante, mostra qui con grande forza 
ed efficacia che la coscienza individuale e la ragione umana non possono 
trascendere la pratica che le rende possibili, e che di conseguenza la 
testimonianza della verita non puo venire esaurita dall’individuo e dalla sua 
volonta soggettiva. La presenza e lalterita del volto altrui finiscono per 
ridimensionare la formazione soggettiva e trasformano la pretesa conoscitiva e 
razionalistica dello scrittore in una dimensione propriamente etica che pone il 
problema della trascendenza. La scena della scrittura si sposta dall’interiorita del 
soggetto all’apparizione del volto dell’altro. Petrarca comprende che la 
trascendenza non si riduce ad un problema gnoseologico o teoretico che rimanga 
chiuso nella metaforica della luce, ma € un problema etico che allude ad una 
significazione originaria, ad un enigma che si esprime nella percezione 
dell’infinito nel volto dell’altro. 


lil. Tempo ed eternita 

Esiste un altro aspetto in cui la scrittura di Petrarca si dischiude alla dimensione 
etica. Si tratta della sua riflessione sul tempo e sulla morte, che si apre ad un 
orizzonte di ricerca intellettuale fondato sulla consapevole accettazione della 
precarieta, del dubbio, dell’incertezza, da parte di chi sente di esprimere 
“opinioni probabili” piuttosto che verita definitive. La scrittura che corrisponde 
a questa nuova visione é fortemente legata ad una temporalita transeunte che 
tuttavia non si fonda pit esclusivamente sul presente e aspira ad attingere alla 
dimensione infinita ed enigmatica del futuro. Nel Canzoniere si trova un luogo 
memorabile in cui Petrarca esprime con grande efficace il legame scrittura- 
tempo: 


Ma perché °| tempo é€ corto, 

la penna al buon voler non po gir presso: 
onde pili cose ne la mente scritte 

vo trapassando, et sol d’alcune parlo 


che meraviglia fanno a chi l’ascolta. 
(XXIII, 90-94) 


La consapevolezza con cui Petrarca esprime l’implicazione reciproca di 
temporalita e scrittura si traduce in una visione della verita che non trova la sua 
forza sul piano ontologico o trascendentale, ma su quello etico. Ad una 
temporalita  fondata sul presente della scrittura, sull’ipostasi dell’identita 
costruita in questo rapporto, Petrarca contrappone la trascendenza dell’avvenire, 
l’enigma di una morte che non risparmia nulla e che il soggetto umano non puo 
controllare. 

Questa diversa temporalita emerge con forza anche nella Posteritati che non 
va quindi letta semplicemente come espressione di una mitologia dell’io poetico, 
ma anche come riconoscimento dell’esistenza di una temporalita e di un’identita 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 83 


che rimangono altre rispetto al presente della scrittura. Petrarca si definisce un 
mortalis homuncio che non trova pace nel presente desiderando dimenticarlo per 
vivere spiritualmente in altre eta. Significativo da questo punto di vista rimane 
anche il 7estamentum, dove Petrarca tenta di controllare la morte attraverso la 
scrittura, cercando di prevedere i diversi luoghi in cui potrebbe morire per 
lasciare specifiche disposizioni sulla sepoltura. I] poeta finira poi per riconoscere 
che non solo il luogo ma anche I’ora rimangono incerti e che non vi puo essere 
ordine razionale nella morte (Opere /atine 1342 e seguenti). 

Nei 7rionfi Petrarca mostra come “tutto vince e ritoglie il Tempo avaro” 
(Triumphus temporis 142), anche la morte rimane soggetta al tempo. D’altro 
canto il tempo é destinato a soccombere di fronte alla prospettiva dell’ infinito e 
dell’ eternita: 


a! Ra. Gor Side Neto) ‘a: Jape ust ‘ete; “e pe o ke, ‘ed.ebie, e700 ete ing 


non avra loco ‘fu’, ‘sara’ né ‘era’, 
ma ‘é’ solo, ‘in presente’, ed ‘ora’, ed ‘oggi’, 
e sola eternita raccolta e *ntera 
(Triumphus eternitatis 67-69) 


Non sara pit diviso a poco a poco, 
ma tutto insieme, e non pit state 0 verno, 
ma morto il tempo, e variato i] loco; 
(Triumphus eternitatis 77-79) 


In questa idea di eternita € da vedere l’influsso di Agostino che nelle 
Confessioni scriveva: “[...] quim potius fuisse et futurum esse non est in ea, sed 
esse solum, quoniam aeterna est” (IX, 10, 24). Nell’eternita il passato e il futuro 
saranno uniti in un solo punto e appariranno come un’ombra nell’unita divina. 
Ma questa visione € continuamente dilazionata nel presente della scrittura e la 
mente umana é destinata a rimanere sempre vuota o “digiuna”, come scrive 
Petrarca: “O mente vaga, al fin sempre digiuna,/ a che tanti pensier? (7riumphus 
eternitatis 61-62). La visione dell’eternita in cui il tempo umano é destinato a 
fluire viene semplicemente annunciata, con una tonalita profetica che mescola | 
tempi verbali dal passato al presente al futuro (vv. 88, 93, 106, 113, 115). Il 
trionfo dell’eternita sara possibile solo nel momento del giudizio finale e della 
resurrezione della carne. Questo momento escatologico é destinato a rimanere 
un mistero che mette alla prova la fede in Cristo: 


Quando cid fia, nol so; se fu soppressa 
tanta credenza a’ piu fidi compagni, 
a si alto segreto chi s’appressa? 
(Triumphus eternitatis 100-02). 


84 Massimo Lollini 


Petrarca condivide con il primo cristianesimo la convinzione escatologica e 
rimane convinto che la fine dei tempi sia prossima anche se nessun essere 
umano é in grado di anticiparla. Del resto nella concezione medievale del tempo 
era molto diffusa la convinzione, a cui lo stesso Petrarca partecipa, della 
prossima fine dei tempi. La concezione cristiana del tempo considerava sei eta 
del mondo in analogia con i sei giorni della creazione e le sei eta dell’essere 
umano. Petrarca era convinto, con il suo tempo, di vivere nel sesto e ultimo 
periodo storico, quello della senectus che era cominciato con la venuta di 
Cristo.'4 Il modello agostiniano della storia umana considera le vicende 
individuali e collettive swb specie aeternitatis. In questo modello l’eternita é il 
segno divino per eccellenza di fronte al quale il tempo della vita umana non é 
nulla, non ha valore se non come preparazione alla vita eterna ed é privo di 
continuita. Solo Dio conosce il momento in cui le attese escatologiche si 
realizzeranno, come si legge nel vangelo di Marco: “De die autem illo et hora 
nemo scit, neque angeli in caelo, neque Filius, nisi Pater” (13, 32). Petrarca é€ 
ben consapevole del carattere misterioso ed incognito dell’eternita e della 
resurrezione della carne (“a si alto segreto chi s’appressa?’’) e insieme sottolinea 
la difficolta implicita in questi concetti.!> 

L’indebolirsi dell’attesa escatologica ha trovato una certa soluzione nella 
teologia paolina per la quale l’evento temporale decisivo per l’essere umano é 
gia accaduto e consiste nell’incarnazione, nella venuta di Cristo che ha posto 
effettivamente una svolta decisiva alla storia imponendo una nuova legge (1 
Rom. X, 4). La salvezza dell’essere umano non appare pit legata semplicemente 
alla tensione escatologica ma anche e soprattutto alla fiducia, all’obbedienza (1 
Rom. I, 5) a una verita vitale (2 Thess. II, 12-14) che impegna tutto l’essere 
nell’unione a Cristo (2 Cor XIII, 4-7). Questa concezione poi, condivisa e 
sviluppata anche da Agostino (De civitate Dei XI, 2), colloca il cristiano in uno 
spazio intermedio tra un passato che non esiste piu e un futuro che non é ancora 
cominciato. Questo spazio intermedio non viene inteso in maniera cronologica, 
ma in maniera qualitativa e sostanziale: cid che caratterizza la concezione 
cristiana del tempo non é pit solo la dimensione escatologica, proiettata in un 
futuro indeterminato, ma anche la convinzione che con la venuta di Cristo 
l’eterno é entrato nella tempo e si é aperta una dimensione storico-salvifica in 
cui il modello del xaipd¢ divino pud presentarsi nella vita di ogni uomo e essere 
ricercato oltre che atteso. 


14 Petrarca parla in vari contesti di questo aspetto. Si veda ad esempio Fam. VIII, 7: 
“Nove amicitie contrahende sunt. Unde autem sive ad quid? humano genere pene 
extincto, et proximo, ut auguror, rerum fine? [...] credo id agente Deo, ut vite huius 
illecebris impedimentisque suavibus spoliati, liberius iam ad alteram suspiremus” (Le 
Familiari 881). 

!3 Allinterno delle sue opere esiste una certa tensione a questo riguardo che é stata 
messa in rilievo da Pertini. 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 85 


Questa concezione del tempo si ritrova anche in Petrarca, soprattutto 
attraverso la mediazione di Agostino. In Agostino Petrarca trovava non solo la 
concezione dell’eternita ma anche la concezione del tempo come distensio 
animi, che apriva la strada alla dimensione interiore e spirituale del tempo, cosi 
significativa nel Canzoniere. Petrarca sottolinea frequentemente che ‘“vola il 
tempo e fuggon gli anni” (XXX, 13); che “quanto é creato, vince e cangia il 
tempo” (CXLII, 26) e che in questa maniera il tempo inganna “‘i ciechi et miseri 
mortali” (CCCLV, 2). Ecco allora che di fronte al tempo la morte si presenta 
non come “duol” ma come “refugio” (CCCXXXI, 63) perché crea la possibilita 
dell’uscita dall’ipostasi del presente, che é il presente del desiderio e della 
scrittura che insegue “l’ombra di quel dolce lauro” (XXX, 16) nel momento in 
cui disegna i contorni dell’io. Il pensiero della morte dischiude la prospettiva 
dell’eterno e di una temporalita altra che irrompe nel presente. 

La visione spirituale del tempo é cid che determina la possibilita umana di 
un’anticipazione del futuro che non é ancora e di una crescita del passato che 
non € piu. Tutto questo, scrive Agostino, € reso possibile dai tre momenti 
dell’attesa, dell’attenzione e della memoria: 


Quis igitur negat futura nondum esse? Sed tamen iam est in animo expectatio futurorum. 
Et quis negat praeterita iam non esse? Sed tamen adhuc est in animo memoria 
praeteritorum. Et quis negat praesens tempus carere spatio, quia in puncto praeterit? Sed 
tamen perdurat adtentio, per quam pergat abesse quod aderit. 

(Confessiones XI, 28, 37) 
(Chi pudO dunque negare che il futuro non esiste ancora? Ma nell’animo c’é gia 
laspettativa del futuro. E chi puo negare che il passato ora non esiste? Ma nell’animo c’e 
la memoria del passato. E chi puo negare che il tempo presente non ha estensione nello 
spazio perché passa in un attimo? Tuttavia € continua |’attenzione per cui cid che sara 
presente si avvia ad essere assente. ) 


In sostanza la dimensione spirituale del tempo, in interiore homine, nella 
profondita aperta dalla distentio animi, consente al cristiano di vivere la 
paradossale posizione dialettica che lo vede in bilico tra un futuro che non é 
ancora e un passato che non ée piu. La condizione fondamentale per vivere in 
questa dimensione temporale non é tanto e solo la distentio, ma soprattutto la 
intentio: “non secundum distentionem, sed secundum intentionem sequor ad 
palmas supernae vocationis,” scrive Agostino (Confessiones, X1, 29, 39). 

In Petrarca questa dimensione spirituale e dialettica del tempo si presenta in 
maniera esemplare. Egli, come Agostino, € consapevole che l’orizzonte del 
tempo comprende il presente della percezione, il passato della memoria e il 
futuro dell’attesa. Petrarca mostra come in questa tensione dialettica tra le 
diverse dimensioni del tempo la coscienza individuale ricerchi la propria realta 
autentica che si esprime soprattutto nell’intenzionalita rivolta verso il futuro 
escatologico che rimane ignoto. II fondamento etico della scrittura di Petrarca é€ 
da vedere proprio in questa decisione rivolta al futuro ignoto, in cui risulta 


86 Massimo Lollini 


evidente che l’alterita che troviamo in Petrarca non é legata solo al carattere 
irriducibile del volto di Laura, ma anche alla intenzionalita del soggetto che 
scrive e alla sua coscienza del tempo. L’emergere di questa alterita in Petrarca 
consente di riconoscere come la tensione dialettica in cui vive la coscienza 
cristiana del tempo € destinata a rimanere irrisolta, poiché la differenza 
ontologica tra l’eterno extratemporale, in cui vive il Creatore divino, e il tempo 
non viene tolta, nonostante la recta intentio della creatura. 


Conclusione 

La decisione per l’eternita nasce dal riconoscimento che é precisamente 
nell’eternita che il tempo trova la sua dimensione autentica capace di fare 
apprezzare il prima e il dopo nel loro significato proprio. L’eternita per il 
cristiano non é solo da vedere nel tempo quasi infinitamente protratto del futuro 
escatologico, ma anche nell’irruzione dell’eterno nel presente, nella concezione 
che vede raccogliersi nell’istante la densita dell’essere, il legame tra il passato e 
il futuro senza il quale non puo esserci il tempo, come sosteneva Agostino e 
come Petrarca mostra con particolare forza nei 7rionfi. La stessa filosofia 
contemporanea, quando con Heidegger ha voluto porre il problema 
dell’autenticita del tempo, ha sottolineato la rilevanza del futuro e della 
decisione del soggetto che ritrova se stesso solo in rapporto alle cose ultime, alle 
possibilita estreme dell’ esistenza. 

In Heidegger viene meno non tanto la dimensione escatologica, quanto la 
fede nella vita eterna e nel ruolo rappresentato da Cristo.!® La prospettiva 
dischiusa da Heidegger (e secondo molta filosofia contemporanea, dallo stesso 
Nietzsche) € quella della finitudine dell’essere umano che vede nella morte 
l’evento fondamentale della vita con cui occorre misurare la stessa concezione 
del tempo. In realta questa prospettiva non é priva di problemi nel momento in 
cul finisce per risolvere linfinito nel finito attribuendo a quest’ultimo un 
carattere assoluto che non lascia spazio ad una ricerca aperta. Heidegger 
rivendica l’importanza della temporalita del tempo originario in cui vivono 
intrecciati presente, passato e futuro. Si tratta di una dimensione trascendente del 
tempo che si dischiude nel progetto umano, nella sua capacita e possibilita di 
precorrere e definire il proprio essere autentico nel mondo, attraverso la 
decisione anticipatrice della morte. Heidegger ha in mente il compimento 
originario della temporalizzazione piuttosto che una reale apertura verso il 
mistero del futuro, e la sua comprensione della temporalita, come gli ha 
rimproverato Lévinas, non lascia abbastanza_ spazio_ all’imprevisto e 
all’impossibile. Inoltre il progetto legato alla decisione anticipatrice della morte 
é€ fondato sull’idea di un soggetto che nonostante tutto rimane egocentrico 


16 Heidegger lo dice chiaramente in una conferenza del 1924 in cui si trovano gia in nuce 
i concetti fondamentali poi svolti in Essere e tempo (1927). Si veda Der Begriff der Zeit. 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 87 


stabilendo il pensiero della propria morte come centro del proprio rapporto con 
il tempo. 

Si tratta di un problema in cui cade lo stesso sapere metafisico quando 
finisce per risolvere il finito nell’infinito, come accade nella dialettica hegeliana 
e nell’idea di un Sapere Assoluto. Anche la decisione per l’eternita, nel 
momento in cui viene attuata da un soggetto egocentrico e dalla pura 
intenzionalita della sua coscienza che aspira all’immortalita personale, rimane 
contraddittoria, dando un valore assoluto a quello che rimane, nonostante tutto, 
un’aspirazione soggettiva e parziale. Risolvendo I’infinito nel finito 0, viceversa, 
il finito nell’infinito si finisce per dimenticare non solo l’altro e la comunita in 
cui si vive, ma ci si dimentica anche che la condizione in cui avviene la ricerca 
del sapere e dell’identita personale é il vuoto e che questa condizione — dove 
rimane possibile l’oscillazione tra l’essere e il non essere, cosi come la tensione 
tra l’essere e l’apparire — non puo essere tolta da nessuna decisione 
anticipatrice. 

La prospettiva metafisica e religiosa in cui si inscrive l’opera di Petrarca 
appare invece impegnata nel mantenere aperto precisamente lo spazio 
intermedio della ricerca in cui convivono tensioni opposte e in cui la dimensione 
del desiderio non viene cancellata dalla possibilita di una verita che rimane 
eterna né dal pensiero della morte. II pensiero di Petrarca € un pensiero 
dell’infinito e dell’eterno non tanto e non solo a partire dalla ricerca di una 
immortalita personale e dal rifiuto del pensiero della morte. II pensiero 
angoscioso della morte percorre la scrittura e la coscienza del poeta, tuttavia egli 
non ha in mente solo la propria morte, ma anche e soprattutto quella di Laura da 
una parte e quella di Cristo dall’altra. Petrarca riconosce che non si puo vivere 
e/o scrivere la propria morte. La morte alla prima persona é una sorta di evento 
puro, che spezza la continuita dell’essere, qualcosa di Totalmente Altro, la cul 
esistenza é fatta di alterita, scrive Lévinas. Nella morte in prima persona si 
stabilisce una relazione paradossale con qualcosa che mette in crisi la coscienza 
soggettiva, senza tuttavia poterla aprire ad una dimensione autenticamente 
intersoggettiva. Questa dimensione si manifesta solo nel momento in cui il 
soggetto pensa non alla propria morte ma alla morte dell’altro; solo in questa 
maniera la morte cessa di essere il Totalmente Altro chiuso in un volto 
impersonale o nella maschera neutra sfigurante che tutti gli umani assumono in 
punto di morte. 

La morte di Laura ha penetrato profondamente |’essere di Petrarca e lo ha 
lacerato e trasformato invitandolo a considerare la vita sub specie aeternitatis. E 
questo un pensiero che nasce prima di tutto dalla propria relazione con |’altro 
ormai morto, come si comprende dalle parole che Amore rivolge al poeta: 


— Pon’ freno al gran dolor che ti trasporta, 
ché per soverchie voglie 
si perde ’I cielo, ove *] tuo cuore aspira, 


88 Massimo Lollini 


dove é viva colei ch’altrui par morta, 


(CCLX VIII, 67-70) 


E in questa relazione paradossale che si stabilisce il seme dell’eternita e 
dell’immortalita. Nel finito e nel limite rappresentato dalla morte dell’altro il 
soggetto impara a riconoscere la possibilita della propria stessa morte, in cul é 
destinato a rimanere passivo, in balia del Totalmente Altro. In questa passivita si 
nasconde l’interruzione dell’essere e la trascendenza dell’ego. Ma prima che 
questa passivita si realizzi nel tempo senza tempo della morte in prima persona 
il soggetto etico pud decidere |l’attenzione e la responsabilité verso la morte 
dell’altro, insieme alla scelta di una vita giusta, di una buona condotta di vita, 
secondo coscienza. E in questa decisione che il soggetto trascende veramente se 
stesso e riconosce il carattere imprescindibile della relazione con l’altro. 

Questa decisione non appare possibile ad un soggetto completamente 
destituito e privo di coscienza. Per questo il fattore decisivo rimane I’attenzione 
verso l’altro. In quanto esseri razionali non é€ possibile morire, non si pud 
pensare la morte, il momento in cui l’essere e il nulla vengono a coincidere 
senza incontrarsi. Solo l’attenzione e la cura verso la morte dell’altro possono 
aiutare il soggetto a riconoscere la possibilita di una dimensione di vita piu 
autentica, swb specie aeternitatis. Nella vita e nell’opera di Francesco Petrarca é€ 
questa la strada che conduce la vicenda personale ad incontrarsi con quella della 
comunita umana nel pensiero dell’Incarnazion: e Resurrezione di Cristo. Per 
Petrarca la prospettiva storico-salvifica aperta da Cristo appare importante, 
senza tuttavia poter risolvere i problemi e le tensioni in cui rimane coinvolto. II 
poeta insiste sulla possibilita di una salvezza individuale che consiste 
precisamente nel riconoscere il valore delle ‘’nsegne di quell’altra vita” (LXXX, 
23), il legno della croce, il “bel ramo” (CV, 80) capace di rivelare la presenza di 
una temporalita altra che cambia radicalmente la prospettiva sul mondo. | valori 
mondani perdono il loro carattere assoluto quando solo relativizzati 
dall’irruzione dell’eterno nella vita umana testimoniata dalla passione di Cristo. 

Tuttavia la meditazione sulla croce (LXII, 14) e il riconoscimento del valore 
dell’eternita aperto dalla prospettiva della resurrezione della carne nella visione 
escatologica non eliminano la percezione del presente e il desiderio ad esso 
associato. Petrarca riconosce la tragica impossibilita di una vera e propria uscita 
dall’ipostasi del presente, ma l’apprezzamento della presenza dell’avvenire nel 
presente, |’attenzione alla morte dell’altro e, per altro verso, l’appello al lettore 
futuro che si trova nella Posteritati aprono al riconoscimento della natura 
inalienabile e necessaria della relazione intersoggettiva. La relazione con 
l’avvenire é la relazione stessa con l’altro e con l’infinito.!7 L’avvenire che si 
trova nel presente rimane distinto dal presente stesso, dall’identita del soggetto 


17 Si veda Lévinas, Le temps et | ‘autre (trad. ital. 46). 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 89 


costruita attraverso la scrittura, e presuppone un’apertura al mistero e all’alterita. 
L’alterita si pone oltre la contemporaneita del presente, in una dimensione che 
non € spaziale o concettuale ma una particolare relazione con l’infinito, decisa 
dal soggetto che scrive nel tempo, nella precarieta e instabilita della sua 
posizione. 

Non a caso questa relazione si stabilisce anche nell’epistolario del poeta, 
sede di una ricerca intellettuale rischiosa e senza fine dove il dialogo con i 
grandi del passato coincide con il senso di incompiutezza del presente e di 
un’apertura verso il futuro. Si tratta di una ricerca che sa coniugare la solitudine 
con la ricerca di un incontro non solo nell’amicizia intellettuale e nell’amore 
delle lettere, ma anche negli affetti profondi. Una ricerca che pur insistendo sulla 
conoscenza di sé non si esaurisce in questo, né pud farlo viste le premesse 
teoriche e il rapporto con il tempo stabilito dal poeta.'® In questo senso si pud 
concludere che l’etica del Petrarca, cosi come si rivela nella sua poesia e nelle 
sue lettere, non si esprime in termini di autocoscienza, ma si apre al discorso 
dell’alterita.'9 La lettera consente la percezione pit intima dell’essere e 
stabilisce una relazione con |’istante in base alla quale l’esistente scopre la 
dualita della propria relazione con I’esistenza. L’esistenza é priva di semplicita e 
proprio per questo il futuro e l’avvenire sono impossibili per un soggetto solo.2° 
Questo tipo di relazione con I’altro, come si é visto, si pud trovare anche in certi 
aspetti dell’eros dispiegato da Petrarca nelle sue rime, dove l’amore in ultima 
analisi rimane fondato su di una dualita insuperabile degli esseri in gioco. Come 
ha scritto Lévinas, l’altro nella relazione erotica non € oggetto di possesso ma di 
mistero. L’elemento patetico dell’amore é rappresentato proprio dalla prossimita 
che in esso si realizza senza cancellare la dualita: “Cio che viene presentato 
come lo scacco della comunicazione nell’amore costituisce proprio la positivita 
della relazione; questa assenza dell’altro € proprio la sua presenza come altro” 
(Lévinas, Dall’esistenza 62). 

In conclusione, in Petrarca il valore “assoluto” della visione e della verita 
finisce per coincidere con un’etica della scrittura nata dal riconoscimento che 
essere umano non puo affatto trascendere compiutamente 1 limiti posti dalla 


18 Pur riconoscendo il senso di precarieta e di dubbio che é connesso alla “coscienza 
moderna del Petrarca”, Ugo Dotti ha visto nella sua poesia una ricerca di purificazione 
che prelude ad una “soddisfatta autocoscienza™ in sintonia con quelle che secoli pit tardi 
saranno le posizioni dell’idealismo hegeliano (464). 

19 Pur non parlando di alterita, Struever ha riconosciuto quanto Petrarca sia lontano da un 
discorso autoriflessivo: “To be sure, if the virtue of modern ethics is a specially rigorous 
reflexivity, an acutely critical self-consciousness, Petrarch is disappointingly premodern” 
(31). Mazzotta ha mostrato a sua volta la complessita della nozione di “self” in Petrarca 
chiarendone la dimensione etica: “The fragmentation and solitude of self [...] are the 
reverse side of a self as a knot of roots inextricably bound in a bundle of contradictory 
relations” (84). 

20 Si veda Lévinas, Dall 'esistenza 22. 


90 Massimo Lollini 


temporalita o dal contesto pragmatico nel quale viene a collocarsi. Il gesto della 
scrittura in Petrarca non si fonda solo sull’idea di assenza, l’assenza 
dell’universo dell’altro, di Laura, da recuperare e possedere attraverso la 
memoria e la scrittura poetica;?! e neppure sulla semplice reiterazione di un 
desiderio erotico diversamente condannato sul piano filosofico (stoicismo) e 
religioso (Agostino e il cristianesimo). Nella sua scrittura si trovano anche 
momenti estremamente significativi in cui emerge una visione autenticamente 
etica, la percezione del vuoto della forma, dell’alterita dell’esperienza vitale, nel 
senso che si sviluppa a partire dalla nozione platonica di conoscenza e che 
ritorna in Agostino e Dante. 

University of Oregon 


Opere citate 


Agostino, Confessionum Libri Tredecim, traduz. e note di C. Carena. Brescia: Citta 
Nuova, 1978. 

Calvino I., Saggi (1945-1985), a cura di M. Barenghi. Milano: Mondadori, 1995. 

Carrera A., L'esperienza dell'istante. Metafisica, tempo, scrittura. Milano: Lanfranchi, 
1995. 

Cavalcanti G., Rime, a cura di M. Ciccuto. Milano: Rizzoli, 1978. 

Cropper E., “On the Beauty of Woman: Problems in the Rhetoric of Renaissance 
Portraiture,” in Margaret W. Ferguson, Maureen Quilligan, Nancy J. Vickers, 
Rewriting the Renaissance. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1986. 175-90. 

Cullmann O., Christus und die Zeit, Zollikon-Zurich, Switzerland: Evangelischer Verlag, 
1946. [Christ and Time. The Primitive Christian Conception of Time and History, 
traduz. di Floyd V. Filson, Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1964. ] 

Dotti U., Vita di Petrarca. Roma: Laterza, 1992. 

Durling R., “Introduction” in Petrarch’s Lyric Poems. The Rime sparse and Other Lyrics, 
traduz. di R. Durling. Cambridge, Ma: Harvard UP, 1976. 

Gurevich A., La nascita dell’individuo nell’Europa Medievale, traduz. di M. Venditti. 
Roma: Laterza, 1996. 

. Categories of Medieval Culture, traduz. di G. L. Campbell. London: Routledge 
& Kegan Paul, 1985. 


21 y poeta Ungaretti, come la maggior parte dei critici, ha visto in Petrarca solo l’idea 
dell’assenza. L’idea del vuoto a suo giudizio si fonda invece sull’assenza radicale 
dell’essere che emergerebbe solo con Michelangelo e la cultura barocca. Si veda 
Pintroduzione al Sentimento del tempo, Vita d'un uomo. Tutte le poesie, Milano, 
Mondadori, 1969, 534-535. La nostra analisi tende invece a mostrare come in Petrarca, e 
prima ancora in Dante, la nozione stessa di memoria venga messa in discussione dalla 
percezione del vuoto della forma, inteso come presenza coestensiva del non-essere 
all’interno dell’essere. 


Scrittura e alterita in Petrarca 91 


Heidegger, Martin. Der Begriff der Zeit. Tiibingen: Max Niemeyer Verlag, 1989. [// 
concetto di tempo. Ed. F.Volpi. Milano: Adelphi, 1998. ] 

Husserl E., /deen zu einer reinen Phanomenologie und phanomenologischen Philosophie, 
Den Haag: Martinus Nijhoff, 1952 [/dee per una fenomenologia pura e per una 
filosofia fenomenologica, traduz. di Giulio Alliney e Enrico Filippini. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1965.] 

Jankélévitch V., Penser la mort? Paris: Liana Levi, 1994. 

Lévinas E., La mort et le temps. Paris: L’Herme. 1991. 

, Le temps et l'autre in Le Choix - Le Monde - L'Existence. Grenoble: Arthaud, 
1947. 125-96 [/l Tempo e I 'altro, traduz. di Francesco Paolo Ciglia. Genova: II 
Melangolo, 1993.] 

, Dall'esistenza all’esistente, traduz. di Federica Sossi. Genova: Marietti, 1986. 
[De l existence a | 'existant. Paris: Editions de la Revue Fontaine, 1947.] 

, Autrement qu'étre, ou, Au-dela de l'essence. Paris: Librairie générale frangaise, 
1974. [Altrimenti che essere o al di la dell’essenza, traduz. di Silvano Petrosino e 
Maria Teresa Aiello. Milano: Jaca, 1983.] 

Lollini M., // vuoto della forma. Scrittura, testimonianza e verita. Genova: Marietti, 
2001. 

Mazzotta G., The Worlds of Petrarch. Durham: Duke UP, 1993. 

Pertini M., La risurrezione della carne. Saggi sul Canzoniere. Milano: Mursia, 1992. 

Petrarca F., / Trionfi, Rime estravaganti, Codice abbozzi, a cura di V. Paccae L. Paolino. 
Introduzione di M. Santagata. Milano: Mondadori, 1996. 

, Epistole, a cura di U. Dotti. Torino: UTET, 1978. 

, Opere latine, a cura di A. Bufano. Torino: UTET, 1975. 

, Le Familiari, introduzione, traduzione, note di Ugo Dotti. Urbino: Argalia, 
1974- 

, Canzoniere, testo critico e introduzione di G. Contini. Torino: Einaudi, 1964. 

Petrucci A., La scrittura di Francesco Petrarca. Citta del Vaticano: Biblioteca 
Apostolica Vaticana, 1967. 

Platone, Tutti gli scritti, a cura di Giovanni Reale. Milano: Rusconi, 1991. 

Pozzi G., La natura e la grazia nella retorica dei poeti e dei santi, in “\| piccolo Hans” 
(ottobre/dicembre 1982): 116-43. 

Ronchi R., La scrittura della verita. Per una genealogia della teoria. Milano: Jaca, 1996. 

, Luogo comune. Verso un’etica della scrittura. Milano: Egea, 1996. 

Santagata, M., / frammenti dell’anima. Storia e racconto nel Canzoniere del Petrarca. 
Bologna: Il Mulino, 1992. 

Seneca L. A., Lettere a Lucilio, traduz. di G. Monti. Milano: Rizzoli, 1974. 

Sini C., Etica della scrittura. Milano: 1] Saggiatore, 1992. 

, Filosofia e scrittura. Roma: Laterza, 1994. 

Struever Nancy S., Theory as Practice. Ethical Inquiry in the Renaissance. Chicago: U of 
Chicago P, 1992. 

Vickers Nancy J., “Diana Described: Scattered Woman and Scattered Rhyme”, in 
Critical Inquiry (Winter 1981): 265-79. 

Zambrano M., Hacia un saber sobre el alma. Fundacion Maria Zambrano, 1991. [Verso 
un sapere dell’anima, traduz. di Eliana Nobili. Milano: Raffaello Cortina Editore, 
1996. ] 


” 


= 8 aly 3. tee 


o SP TN ant - > Tf —we' 
: ~~ 7:beaw— + 


7 Le Oh aA © Lap“ 


GR os iY err 
rr 
ae” ah on curl 
os we fF ye as Osha 
_ 6 7 + cum © 
a yeep cine 
t= = o fe we 
ft Ay tho cy — Ye, 
a > hj -" ie 
ie we Se 8 Cosh ier 
re 
7 i eT 
ee i. a 
-— 6 6 @ bay, 31 Wem 
 ¢&© pe 04a oP © - 
an 
: oe 
ee 





Charles Klopp 








The Return of the Spiritual, with a Note 
on the Fiction of Bufalino, Tabucchi, and Celati 


One result, perhaps, of the recent implosions, transmogrifications, or movements 
to higher levels (as the cases may be) of both the Italian Communist and the 
Christian Democrat parties is that Italian intellectuals are now freer than they 
have been for many years to express themselves in public on such issues as 
religion and religious ethics. Judging from the fiction and cultural commentary 
that has issued from Italy in the last decades, the anti-clerical, anti-Catholic, and 
sometimes anti-religious stances assumed by many Italian intellectuals as part of 
their opposition to Christian Democrat political hegemony have been replaced 
by different attitudes toward these matters. The political and “materialist” nature 
of much cultural discourse earlier in the century (whether or not this posture was 
accompanied by adherence to dialectical materialism as a philosophical or 
political creed) has given way to more “spiritual” considerations involving such 
matters as ethical behavior and the role that spirituality and the sacred play in 
human life. 

Throughout the twentieth century, there have been a number of Italian 
thinkers who have addressed ethical and religious issues in ways that had little 
to do with DC policy or electoral politics. Croce himself in 1945 wrote an article 
that he entitled “Perché non possiamo non dirci cristiani,” in which he insisted 
on the common cultural heritage of all Italians. There have of course been many 
others throughout the twentieth century who have conducted serious 
philosophical inquiry along unapologetically Christian, if not always entirely 
orthodox, lines. One such thinker is Augusto Del Noce. In such studies as his 
massive // problema dell’ateismo of 1964, Del Noce sets himself in opposition 
to a prolongation of the tradition of the Enlightenment, identifies rationalism 
with atheism, Marxism, and totalitarianism, and makes the case for Christian 
faith in what he believes is a post-Marxist present. 

Del Noce, who died in 1989, is generally considered a Catholic philosopher 
and it is scarcely surprising to find faith and atheism among his professional 
preoccupations. It has only been in more recent times, however, that the kinds of 
problems examined by Del Noce have become of enough interest to intellectuals 
of more secular orientation for them to speak out about such matters in public. 
Perhaps all this takes place because, as Gianni Vattimo has suggested in regard 
to the collapse of the DC, “la fine del cattolicesimo politico [...] ha reso 
finalmente ascoltabile |’insegnamento della Chiesa in Italia anche da parte di chi 
non é mai stato democristiano, e ha messo ampiamente fuori gioco lo stesso 


Annali d’Italianistica 19 (2001) 


94 Charles Klopp 


tradizionale anticlericalismo della cultura laica italiana” (Credere di credere 16- 
17). Whether anticlericalism is “obviously offside” or not, according to all 
arbiters of cultural advances and retreats in Italy, the last few years have seen a 
number of works on religious or spiritual topics by writers from that part of the 
left that in earlier times was opposed not just to the DC but to public 
participation in religious discussion of whatever sort. 

In the realm of literary history, there have been a number of recent studies 
of twentieth-century literary works from a religious or, indeed Catholic, point of 
view. An example is the volume published in the United States and edited by 
Florinda lannace, Etica cristiana e scrittori del Novecento (1993), which treats, 
among others, such authors as Mario Pomilio, Ignazio Silone, Giuseppe 
Ungaretti, Margherita Guidacci, Francesco Jovine, and — the only member of 
this group not usually considered a religious writer — Cesare Pavese. One of the 
many works from Italy that operates from a perspective similar to that of the 
lannace volume is Luca Orsenigo’s L’ossessione dell’assoluto. L’epifania del 
sacro nella letteratura italiana contemporanea (1990), which features two 
essays on Pavese along with others on D’Annunzio, Pascoli, Campana, 
D’Arrigo, and Coccioli: a group that once again includes writers not usually 
associated with the sacred or religion. Another, more comprehensive, survey of 
twentieth-century Italian authors that approaches its topic from what is, broadly 
speaking, a religious perspective, is Renato Bertacchini’s // romanzo del 
Novecento in Italia (1992). A comprehensive guide to the history of Italian 
fiction “from // piacere to Il nome della rosa,’ as the volume is subtitled, 
Bertacchini’s work is somewhat anomalous when compared to other manuals of 
this sort. Like other guides to this material, Bertacchini treats such well-known 
secular figures as Vittorini, Pratolini, and Moravia, but he reserves space as well 
for such much less studied Catholic novelists as Rodolfo Doni, Gino 
Montesanto, and Italo Alighiero Chiusano. 

While scholarly guides and monographic studies of a religious bent have 
long been part of the cultural scene in Italy (thanks, in part, to the support such 
work has received from Catholic educational institutions and publishing houses), 
in recent years books on religious subjects and on ethical topics in a Christian 
context have emerged from less expected quarters. These include work by three 
scholars and cultural commentators who have spent their careers associated with 
such secular institutions as the University of Turin (where Gianni Vattimo 
teaches), “La Sapienza” University in Rome (where Franco Ferrarotti has an 
appointment and, for that matter, where Del Noce also taught), and the 
University of Bologna, where Umberto Eco is on the faculty. Vattimo, the 
philosopher, Ferrarotti, the sociologist, and Eco the novelist and semiotician are, 
of course, very well known figures both in Italy and abroad, although not 
usually in religious contexts. It is thus all the more striking that each of them has 
recently turned his attention to such spiritual matters as the nature of evil and the 


The Return of the Spiritual 95 


possibilities for living a_ spiritual life in our highly secularized and 
commercialized postmodern world. 

Franco Ferrarotti has devoted at least three of the many publications that 
have appeared under his name to religious topics. In 1983 Laterza brought out 
two of these volumes, Una teologia per atei and I! paradosso del sacro. These 
provocatively titled investigations of belief and disbelief were followed in 1990 
by Una fede senza dogmi, again published by Laterza. In all three of these 
works, Ferrarotti, who is best known as a social scientist even though his many 
books have ranged widely over a number of topics, examines religion not so 
much from a sociological point of view as one among other human activities, 
but as an essential part of human experience and thus an important element in 
any definition of what it means to be human. Modern society, according to 
Ferrarotti, has made puerile and largely unsuccessful attempts to deny the 
existence of evil and the necessity for religious belief. But not only is evil 
ineradicably present in human experience, so is also the Devil, as he believes 
and writes in Chapter Six of Una fede senza dogmi. For this reason Ferrarotti 
urges his readers to “ricordare la comune matrice del divino e del diabolico” 
(196). In the section titled “La religione perenne” e “La funzione positiva del 
peccato” (183-188) of Una teologia per atei, he also insists that to accept the 
existence of God means to accept that of evil as well. For this thinker, then, 
contrary to conventional theology, sin is not without a “positive function” and is, 
in any case, a force whose existence in human experience can and must not be 
denied. 

In some ways, Ferrarotti’s is a reiteration of Croce’s judgment in his 1950 
essay, “Il peccato originale,” a work to which Massimiliano Capati has drawn 
attention in his recent reevaluation of the career and accomplishments of the 
Neapolitan philosopher (Capati 118-19). In that essay, Croce had tied the 
presence of evil in the universe of human conduct to a kind of “original sin,” 
though one that did not admit of divine redemption. Croce wrote: 


Puo l’uomo vincere questi e quei mali particolari in sé stesso, ma non potra mai vincere 11 
male. Coloro che si propongono questo fine, entrano in un processo di follia perché 
vorrebbero vivere contro la legge della vita. E questo dell’unita della vita nel bene e nel 
male é il vero peccato originale che non ha redenzione per sangue che si versi dagli dei e 
dai figliuoli di Dio, almeno nella vita che noi conosciamo e che sola possiamo concepire. 

(678; Croce’s emphasis) 


In his insistence on the existence and persistence of evil in human affairs, 
Ferrarotti is thus echoing similar remarks made by Croce on the same topic 
more than half a century earlier, though without Croce’s explicit denial of the 
possibility of a Christian solution to the matter he describes. 

To the surprise of some if not all of those who have followed his career as a 
commentator on Nietzsche and Heidegger, Gianni Vattimo — perhaps the 


96 Charles Klopp 


foremost exponent of “weak thought” in Italy — has recently published a 
number of books on religious topics. One of these grew out of a seminar 
organized by the Italian Institute for Philosophical Studies that was held on 
Capri in 1994. Participants in this seminar included Jacques Derrida and Hans- 
Georg Gadamer, as well as Vattimo, Aldo Rovani, Maurizio Ferraris, and others. 
That meeting’s very interesting proceedings (given the prestige of those who 
participated in it) appeared in 1996 simultaneously in France and Italy; an 
English language version came out two years later. Since the meeting on Capri, 
Vattimo has continued to make public his ideas on religious topics, often in 
engagingly autobiographical fashion. An example is the short book, Credere di 
credere, which was published by Garzanti in 1998. In this work, Vattimo 
describes his personal relations with Catholicism from the time he was a child 
until his older years, a period in his life that has meant for him a return either 
“to” or “of? religion, or perhaps both. On a less autobiographical and 
confessional note, Vattimo has expressed his ideas on religious belief in his 
contribution to a collective volume titled /nterrogazioni sul cristianesimo. This 
book, published in 2000, is the account of a debate among Vattimo, Pierangelo 
Sequeri, who is Professor of Theology at the Facolta Teologica dell’Italia 
Settentrionale, and the journalist Giovanni Ruggeri. Vattimo has also written 
about his religious views in his Vocazione e responsabilita del filosofo, also 
published in 2000, where he presents his opinions on what philosophy should 
and should not be and where he also considers the responsibilities incumbent on 
those who profess themselves philosophers. 

In several of these contributions to the debate on religion, as in his writings 
on other topics, Vattimo identifies late capitalism as a principal menace to the 
life of the spirit. His views of capitalism, which he is careful to acknowledge 
come in part from Adorno, hold that this dominant economic system of our 
times is an “‘organizzazione totale’ [nella quale] fatalmente anche il soggetto 
umano tendera a divenire puro materiale, parte del generale ingranaggio della 
produzione e del consumo” (Credere 21). But in addition to these reflections on 
the totalizing presence of capitalism and consumerism in our lives and the 
tendency of the overwhelming forces of consumption to render us purely 
material beings without a spiritual dimension, other changes in recent thought — 
Vattimo points out — have had important religious implications, primarily the 
perception of an end to an “anticlericalismo ‘moderno’ fondato sulla sicurezza 
di sé di una ragione scientista e storicista che non vedeva limiti alla propria 
sempre pili completa affermazione” (52). With both scientific reasoning and 
faith in the progressive direction of history now discredited, Vattimo continues, 
the spiritual life has come more and more to occupy our thinking about the 
nature of humankind. Vattimo continues that 


The Return of the Spiritual 97 


ritrovamento del cristianesimo é reso possibile dalla dissoluzione della metafisica — cioé 

della fine delle filosofie oggettivistiche, dogmatiche, e anche delle pretese di una cultura, 

quella europea, che credeva di aver scoperto e realizzato la vera “natura” dell’ uomo. 
(Credere 59) 


Despite this dissolution of metaphysics, however, it is important to note that the 
much-vaunted “death of God” could only have taken place in a context of 
religious belief. Vattimo remarks: 


Quel Dio che ha sempre funzionato come principio di stabilizzazione e rassicurazione é 
anche quello che ha sempre vietato la menzogna, dunque é per ubbidirgli che i suoi fedeli 
smentiscono anche quella bugia che egli stesso é. 

(Vocazione e responsibilita del filosofo 77) 


As is evident, Vattimo’s belief too is based on paradox and the simultaneous 
embracing of what might otherwise be considered mutually exclusive categories. 

Of the three essayists and cultural commentators considered here, the 
semiotician, academic, and novelist Umberto Eco is perhaps the most secularly 
oriented member of the group and the best known outside Italy. Eco is important 
in this discussion of the return of spiritual concerns in Italian intellectual life for 
his 1996 participation in a public debate with the Archbishop of Milan, Cardinal 
Carlo Maria Martini. On that occasion, the two men considered a number of 
traditional religious and ethical topics through an exchange of open letters that 
were published that same year in a short book entitled /n cosa crede chi non 
crede? In these documents the emphasis was on the encounter of belief and 
disbelief, between the Archbishop’s more orthodox views and what Eco calls his 
own “religiosita laica” (70). In addition to the eight brief letters by Martini and 
Eco, the printed volume also contains statements by other public intellectuals — 
Emanuele Severino, Manlio Sgalambro, Eugenio Scalfari, Indro Montanelli, 
Vittorio Foa, and Claudio Martelli — who were encouraged by the public debate 
between Martini and Eco to articulate their own views on topics suggested by 
the exchange. 

The discussion between Eco and Martini takes up a number of the classic 
issues of Catholic debate in our times. These include: the notion of the 
apocalypse and attendant end of time and history (not a surprising concern for 
the author of // nome della rosa, in which the Book of Revelation plays an 
important role); the ethical problems presented by abortion and genetic 
engineering; the suitability or lack of suitability of women for the priesthood; 
and the problem of how to construct an ethical system in the absence of religious 
belief. In the course of his letters, Eco, like Vattimo, mentions the religious 
training of his earlier years, noting that even though he considers himself a 
secular person and a lay rather than a religious thinker, he is “sempre incerto se 
certe [delle sue] convinzioni morali non dipendano ancora da una impronta 
religiosa che [I’] ha segnato alle origini” (69-70). Eco also mentions remorse as 


98 Charles Klopp 


a reaction intrinsic to human experience (77), speculates about the possibilities 
of “una qualche vita dopo la morte” (78), and wonders whether those who 
embrace a secular ethical system may, like Christians, also have “‘il diritto di 
avvalersi dell’esempio di Cristo che perdona?” (78). Given these attitudes, for 
Eco too, then, as for Ferrarotti and Vattimo — and for Croce before them — it 
would seem impossible to “non dirsi cristiani” in at least a cultural sense and 
perhaps something more. 


For the literature of the twentieth century, then, what is the importance of this 
return of, or return to, religion? More specifically, how do the religious issues 
discussed in the debates and commentaries reviewed above bear on the novel, 
the “dominant form” of the present moment in Italian literary history, as 
Michael Caesar calls it (603)? One way to assess this matter — I submit — is to 
examine the issues of religion and morality as they appear in the work of three 
prominent Italian novelists of the 1980s and 1990s: Gesualdo Bufalino, Antonio 
Tabucchi, and Gianni Celati. Extremely different one from another in terms of 
styles, thematic preoccupations, and narrative approaches, Bufalino, Tabucchi, 
and Celati are among the Italian authors of the last two decades who are most 
widely read and discussed today both in Italy and abroad. It is therefore 
especially striking that in the fiction of all three of them — although in very 
different ways — religious and ethical issues are of major importance. 

There is little question that overtly religious themes dominate much of the 
writing of Gesualdo Bufalino. They are especially prominent in his first and 
most celebrated novel, Diceria dell’ untore (1981). In this work Bufalino deals at 
length with the six preoccupations he has himself identified as central to his 
creative imagination: Sicily, memory, love, life, death, and God (“In corpore 
vill” 20). Bufalino’s relationship with God, however, is hardly a trusting or a 
tranquil one. The mixture of longing and antagonism toward the divine depicted 
in his writings is marked by a rage that would be blasphemous if it were not so 
clearly the mark of a disappointed (although, perhaps, not entirely despairing) 
believer. Like the similar notions discussed by Ferrarotti, Vattimo, and Eco, 
Bufalino’s is the religion of an atheist, the belief of an unbeliever, the passionate 
love of a thwarted and desperate suitor who, despite the insults he directs at the 
object of his affection, cannot entirely renounce his passion. Bufalino’s 
depictions of Christian figures and dogma in the violent metaphors and 
sometimes arcane or vulgar language that have led him to be labeled a “neo- 
baroque” writer, are thus radically unlike the reflections on religious matters, 
which are presented more serenely, in the essays considered above. They are 
likewise different from Tabucchi’s ironic but morally earnest writings and from 
Celati’s more eclectic approach to the sacred and to being. As a 
believer/disbeliever entangled in logical impasses in which he cannot help but 
continue to thrash, Bufalino, like Ferrarotti, Vattimo, and Eco, is repeatedly 
caught up in paradoxes and oxymorons, so much so that he has named 


The Return of the Spiritual 99 


oxymoron as the dominant mode of all his thinking and writing (“In corpore” 
L2uCortivix): 

When we turn to consider similar issues in the fiction of Antonio Tabucchi, 
it is clear that one of this writer’s most abiding preoccupations is with an evil 
that his characters are morally obliged to recognize and confront. Sometimes, as 
in his extremely popular and much discussed Sostiene Pereira of 1994, this 
recognition and confrontation take place on a political level, for instance when 
Pereira decides to denounce the abuses of power in the Salazarist Portugal in 
which he lives and is most likely beaten and killed as a result of his decision.’ 
As I have suggested at more length elsewhere (“Antonio Tabucchi: Post-modern 
Catholic Writer”), Tabucchi’s positions on such matters as violence and political 
oppression, the exploitation of lesser developed countries, adultery, abortion, 
suicide, and divorce are similar in many ways to views on these matters 
associated with Catholic thinking. Such an interpretation finds further support in 
this writer’s newest book, Si fa sempre piu tardi (2001). In it Tabucchi considers 
such traditionally religious issues as the end of life and the possibility of life 
after death (the story titled “Il fiume”), and betrayal and the possibility of 
forgiveness and atonement, or lack thereof (‘““Buone notizie da casa,” “Buono 
come sei,” “Libri mai scritti, viaggi mai fatti,’ and others as well): all in a 
context of separation, memory, and, often, if not immanent death, then the more 
slowly approaching end of earthly existence. 

The issue of remorse and the impossibility of reliving the past in any way 
other than that of memory — important in such earlier works as_ the 
“hallucination,” as Tabucchi calls it, of Requiem and the short stories 
“Capodanno,” “Il gioco del rovescio,” and “Voci portate da qualcosa, 
impossibile dire cosa,” among others — have been concerns, perhaps even 
obsessions, of Tabucchi’s since the beginnings of his career. Although this 
matter needs to be investigated more thoroughly, Tabucchi’s interest in these 
issues and themes may have connections with the moral philosophy of Vladimir 
Jankélévitch, whose classes at the Sorbonne Tabucchi attended as a student 
during his years in Paris.” Although Jankélévitch is not a Catholic philosopher, 


' Although not everyone who has written about this novel will be in agreement with this 
interpretation, it seems to me that the declaration or “testimonianza” that constitutes the 
text of Sostiene Pereira is being made by Pereira to the police. This arm of the Salazar 
regime, presumably, has arrested Pereira before he has been able to make good his escape 
to France and is now interrogating him about his activities over the past weeks. We may 
also presume that, once they have what they want from him — including the contents of 
the dreams he would prefer not to reveal as irrelevant — the police will kill him just as 
they have already killed Monteiro Rossi. 

? In Jankélévitch’s posthumous collection, Philosophie morale, there are sections and 
subsections devoted to such matters as La mauvaise conscience, Le passé du rimords, 


100 Charles Klopp 


he is, however, a religious thinker. That Jankélévitch may occupy a prominent 
place in Tabucchi’s ethical imagination is another illustration of the importance 
of religious matters for the Italian novelist.’ Remorse, which was also singled 
out by Eco in his debate with the Archbishop of Milan as an inherently human 
emotion, whether in a religious context or not, has obvious connections to guilt 
— and thus to sin, if the value system involved is a Christian one. In Tabucchi’s 
case, remorse, along with the necessity for according human life its appropriate 
and irrefutable value, are abiding preoccupations in almost everything he has 
written." 

Issues like remorse, the confrontation of evil, and the possibility of an 
afterlife seem remote, at first glance, from Gianni Celati’s minimalist and 
apparently disengaged fiction. In this writer’s work there are few explicit 
references to the larger (especially when labeled as such) issues of human 
existence in favor of a phenomenology of everyday life in which the stories of 
ordinary people are put forward modestly, without action-packed plots or 
elaborate character development or analysis. At the same time, there can be little 
doubt that the anomie from which many of Celati’s characters suffer (Baratto in 
Quattro novelle sulle apparenze, the anonymous women in ‘“Meteoriti dal 
cosmo” and “Una sera prima della fine del mondo,” to cite just two of the stories 
in Narratori delle pianure) are the effects of a brutally consumerist culture that 
has drained any sense of meaning, or of the sacred, from human existence 
everywhere. Celati has made it clear, indeed, in his most recent work of 
extended narration, that this waning of the holy is as prevalent in Africa as it is 
in the Po valley.” As Rebecca West has pointed out in her comprehensive and 
insightful study of this writer, Celati’s work in general can be read as an attempt 
to describe a pervasive hunger “which is not nourished either by purely 
materialistic or purely libido-driven acts of consumption” (50). 

It should be clear, even from this brief and perforce simplified consideration 
of these six very different Italian essayists and narrators, that a resurgence of 
interest in spiritual and religious matters is taking place in Italy today. This new 
discourse has nothing to do with the political conservatism of some writers on 
religious topics in the past. All the writers discussed here are firmly opposed to 


L‘irréversible et l'irrévocable, Le mal, and Le pardon, all quintessentially Tabucchian 
themes. A quotation from Jankélévitch’s serves as one of the epigraphs to // filo 
dell ’orizzonte. 

* In his brief appreciation of his fellow philosopher, Lévinas, however, stresses the 
Jewish aspects of Jankélévitch’s thought. For the influence of Christian writers and 
theologians on Jankélévitch, see Montmollin 13-65, et passim. 

* On the value of each human life, even those of apparent “nobodies,” in Tabucchi’s value 
system, see my “Aporias and Intertextuality.” 

* This matter is examined at greater length in my “Buster Keaton va in Africa.” 


The Return of the Spiritual 101 


fascism and are at least skeptical about consumerist capitalism. If not in every 
case a “theology for atheists,” theirs would seem to be a “religiosita laica” that is 
highly skeptical of institutionalized religion, and finds abhorrent the aspiration 
to political power on the basis of religious belief. What has been suggested here 
about Bufalino, Tabucchi, and Celati is not something that applies to all of 
Italy’s more prominent novelists today. It does not apply at all to the work of 
Vincenzo Consolo, for example, nor to that of Sebastiano Vassalli, to name only 
two of the more prominent practitioners of contemporary Italian fiction.° 
Nonetheless, it is evident that in Italy today, as perhaps never before in the 
twentieth century, it is possible for writers and thinkers of the first rank to turn 
their attention in works of fiction and of cultural commentary to issues that are 
no longer exclusively materialistic but spiritual or religious as well. 


The Ohio State University 


Works Cited 


Africa Italia. Due continenti si avvicinano. Ed. Sante Matteo and Stefano Bellocci. 
Roma: Fara, 1999. 
Bertacchini, Renato. // romanzo del Novecento in Italia. Dal Piacere al Nome della rosa. 
Roma: Studium, 1992. 
Bufalino, Gesualdo. “In corpore vili.” Serafini 1-21. 
. Opere. 1981-1988. Milano: Bompiani, 1992. 
Caesar, Michael. “A New Generation of Writers,” “Contemporary Italy (since 1956).” 
The Cambridge History of Italian Literature. 
The Cambridge History of Italian Literature. Ed. Peter Brand and Lino Pertile. New 
York: Cambridge UP, 1996. 
Capati, Massimiliano. // maestro abnorme. Benedetto Croce e I'Italia del Novecento. 
Firenze: Pagliai Polistampa, 2000. 
Celati, Gianni. Avventure in Africa. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1998. 
. Narratori delle pianure. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1985. 
. Quattro novelle sulle apparenze. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1987. 
Corti, Maria. “Introduzione.” Bufalino. Opere i-xxx. 
Croce, Benedetto. “I! peccato originale.” Filosofia, poesia storia. Milano: Ricciardi, 
1951. 678-80. 
. “Perché non possiamo non dirci ‘cristiani.”” Discorsi di varia filosofia. Saggi 
filosofici. 9 vols. Bari: Laterza, 1945. 1: 11-23. 


© For Vassalli, however, see his La notte del lupo (1998), which deals explicitly with 
Judas Iscariot and the persistence of the sort of evil that he represents, for example in 
such a figure as Mehmet Ali Agca. 


102 Charles Klopp 


Del Noce, Augusto. // problema dell’ateismo. Bologna: Il Mulino, 1964. 
Derrida, Jacques, and Gianni Vattimo, eds. La religion: séminaire de Capri. Paris: Seuil, 
1996. 
. La religione. Bari: Laterza, 1996. 
. Religion. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1998. 
Eco, Umberto. // nome della rosa. Milano: Bompiani, 1980. 
Ferrarotti, Franco. // paradosso del sacro. Bari: Laterza, 1983. 
. Una fede senza dogmi. Bari: Laterza, 1990. 
. Una teologia per atei. Bari: Laterza, 1983. 
lannace, Florinda M., ed. Etica cristiana e scrittori del Novecento. Stony Brook: Forum 
Italicum, 1993. 
Jankélévitch, Vladimir. Philosophie morale. Paris: Flammarion, 1998. 
Klopp, Charles. “Antonio Tabucchi: Post-modern Catholic Writer.” World Literature 
Today 7\ (1997): 331-34. 
. “Aporias and Intertextuality in Antonio Tabucchi’s // filo dell ’orizzonte.” Italica 
75 (1998): 428-40. 
. “Buster Keaton va in Africa. Le avventure in Africa di Gianni Celati.” Africa 
Italia 182-91. 
Lévinas, Emmanuel. “Vladimir Jankélévitch.” Outside the Subject. Stanford: Stanford 
UP, 1994. 84-89. 
Martini, Carlo Maria, and Umberto Eco. /n cosa crede chi non crede? Milano: Atlantide, 
1996. 
Montmollin, Isabelle de. La Philosophie de Vladimir Jankélévitch. Sources. Sens. Enjeux. 
Paris: P.U.F., 2000. 
Orsenigo, Luca. L 'ossessione dell'assoluto. L'epifania del sacro nella letteratura italiana 





contemporanea. Torino: Tirrenia, 1990. 

Serafini, Maria Teresa, ed. Come si scrive un romanzo. Milano: Bompiani, 1955. 

Tabucchi, Antonio. // filo dell’orizzonte. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1986. 

. Il gioco del rovescio. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1988. 

. Requiem. Un'allucinazione. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1992. 

. Si sta facendo sempre pitt tardi. Milano: Feltrinelli, 2001. 

. Sostiene Pereira. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1994. 

Vassalli, Sebastiano. La notte del lupo. Milano: Baldini & Castaldi, 1998. 

Vattimo, Gianni. Credere di credere. Milano: Garzanti, 1998. 

. Vocazione e responsabilita del filosofo. Genova: I] Melangolo, 2000. 

Vattimo, Gianni, Pierangelo Squeri, and Giovanni Ruggeri. /nterrogazioni sul 
cristianesimo. Cosa possiamo ancora attenderci dal Vangelo? Roma: Esperienze, 
2000. 

West, Rebecca J. Gianni Celati: The Craft of Everyday Storytelling. Toronto: U of 
Toronto P, 2000. 








Alberto Casadei 





La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 


In che modo € possibile valutare oggi un romanzo tenendo conto delle sue 
valenze etiche, ma senza introdurre pre-giudizi moralistici? Come noto, il 
problema della lettura etica di un’opera letteraria é stato posto gia da Platone e 
Aristotele, ed € apparso di notevole rilevanza sino alla fine del Settecento, 
quando 1 nuovi canoni romantici, specie sulla scorta di Schelling, hanno 
cominciato a consolidare |’idea dell’arte come attivita autonoma. Ma il disagio a 
giudicare eticamente un’opera artistica é stato sancito soprattutto nel Novecento, 
con la stagione dei formalismi da una parte, e con quella delle estetiche 
avanguardistiche dall’altra (sebbene sia necessario distinguere tra vari tipi di 
avanguardie). In parecchi casi la secondarieta se non I’irrilevanza dei contenuti 
espliciti, o persino di quelli evidenziabili solo attraverso un’interpretazione del 
“nascosto”, é stata affermata sia dalle teorie volte ad una ricostruzione astratta 
dei modelli letterari (narrativi), sia dalle forme di analisi ravvicinata tese a 
descrivere le elaborazioni stilistico-espressive in quanto tall. 

I] primato della testualita ha contribuito a generare le tendenze ora indicate, 
ma non le giustifica: in effetti, nei saggi critici pit compiuti la sottolineatura del 
significato anche morale dell’opera € proposta come conseguenza o talora come 
punto di avvio. Tuttavia il decostruzionismo prima e i Cultural studies poi 
hanno, in modo diverso, messo in rilievo l’importanza del lettore e della sua 
cultura. Si é@ quindi passati da una fase in cui si doveva rivendicare o 
l’autonomia o la valenza etica immediata del testo, sulla base eventualmente 
delle posizioni ideologiche dell’autore (semmai smentite dall’opera stessa), ad 
una in cui é unicamente |’interpretazione del lettore a fondare un criterio di 
eticita. 

Se gia negli anni Venti per Ivor A. Richards' la valenza etica doveva venir 
salvaguardata, in quanto carattere derivante dalla natura stessa dell’opera 
poetico-letteraria (che, seguendo M. Arnold, costituisce una “critica della vita’), 
a partire dagli anni Ottanta si € tentato di ricondurre la lettura ad 
un’interpretazione intrinsecamente etica della realta. Un critico di formazione 
semiotica quale Robert Scholes ha voluto rispondere agli eccessi di posizioni 
decostruzioniste di un Culler e di un Hillis Miller, tornando a sottolineare 1 
procedimenti testuali e in specie retorici che potrebbero garantire una lettura 


' | fondamenti, specie capp. VIII e 1X, 54-65. 
Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


104 Alberto Casadei 


etica;’ ma ancora pill ampio é stato il contributo di uno studioso quale Wayne C. 
Booth: nel suo The Company We Keep (1988) viene proposto il concetto di co- 
duction, che sarebbe “what we do whenever we say to the world (or prepare 
ourselves to say): ‘Of the works of this general kind that I have experienced, 
comparing my experience with more or less qualified observers, this one seems 
to me among the better (or weaker) ones, or the best (or worst). Here are my 
reasons’” (72, c. orig.). Da questa posizione, che fa della co-duction una 
“costruzione di esperienza” (cfr. 377), scaturisce la proposta di un pluralismo 
controllato, che riesca a dare un senso etico alla lettura dei testi evitando le 
posizioni eccessivamente chiuse, “pure”, ma anche quelle disposte ad accettare 
ogni tipo di esperienza senza valutarla moralmente. In ogni caso, sarebbe la 
costruzione del testo a favorire il rapporto con la vita reale: “Ethical criticism in 
this broad view is not a form of judgment to be applied to works somehow “out 
of there.” Instead, it is something we live, both as we engage with works and as 
we converse about them after the event” (Booth 369; v. 485-89). 

Il saggio di Booth, che usa adeguatamente anche le riflessioni bachtiniane 
sulla dialogicita, rappresenta una sorta di spartiacque, e anche un punto di 
discrimine tra le interpretazioni che tendono ad impiegare opere letterarie per la 
dimostrazione di teorie filosofiche e quelle che privilegiano l’esame della 
valenza etica a partire dalle caratteristiche dell’opera stessa. Fra le prime si 
possono segnalare quella di Martha C. Nussbaum, che, pur rivalutando la 
funzione concretamente etica della letteratura e in specie del romanzo, tende a 
piegare gli aspetti letterari ad una finalita extratestuale immediata, ossia senza 
considerare sino in fondo le modificazioni che la struttura narrativa stessa puo 
portare alle affermazioni esplicite del testo.’ II libro della Nussbaum tocca 
peraltro numerose e importanti questioni, in particolare quella dell’uso e della 
regolamentazione delle passioni, che il romanzo é stato spesso accusato di 
fomentare, a- 0 immoralmente. II problema esula dai limiti che ci siamo posti, 
ma risulta fondamentale per una lettura etica della narrativa. E quindi 
indispensabile osservare almeno che la valutazione morale del romanzo del 
Settecento e della prima meta dell’Ottocento era legata ad un confronto diretto 
con le leggi etiche vigenti, e quindi poteva porre sullo stesso piano il 
comportamento del personaggio e quello di un essere umano reale. In questo 
senso, Richardson scriveva, come venne detto gia alla meta del Settecento, 
“trattati di morale in azione” (un giudizio da non rifiutarsi, in positivo o in 
negativo, nemmeno oggi), mentre Fielding era sostanzialmente un trasgressore 
dei buoni costumi. 


? Scholes 89-155, specie 145-55. 

> Nussbaum, // giudizio. Si veda anche, di chi scrive, la recensione apparsa su Strumenti 
critici anche per riferimenti a specifica bibliografia (come i lavori di M. Mac Keon e, in 
Italia, di S. Calabrese). 


La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 105 


Questa prospettiva mostro sempre pill i suoi limiti quando il memoir-novel, 
o comunque il romanzo a sfondo pseudo-autobiografico, venne sostituito da una 
trama polifonica e da una costruzione del comportamento del personaggio 
variabile a seconda delle circostanze e in rapporto alla societa storica: ossia, 
dopo il complesso antecedente della Nouvelle Heldise, con Balzac e Stendhal. In 
tale prospettiva, il problema dell’immoralita del romanzo, capace di 
rappresentare le passioni senza sottoporle a un controllo esplicito, diviene 
secondario rispetto alla sua capacita di proporre, a livello della trama o della 
strutturazione retorica (come ha inteso mostrare F. Orlando), un tipo di 
comportamento che, pur non essendo modellizzante, € comunque interpretabile 
dal lettore sulla base della sua configurazione interna: conta quindi il valore 
sperimentale e intrinseco dell’etica narrativa, e solo di riflesso si puo verificare 
un contrasto esplicito con la morale comune, che in ogni caso non deve risultare 
vincolante per le letture successive. Madame Bovary e Anna Karenina non 
vengono certo pit lette come opere altamente trasgressive, ma il comportamento 
delle due eroine richiede una lettura etica, per conferire un valore adeguato alla 
trama (e si dovra in ogni caso tener conto, per una comprensione non distorta, 
dell’ironia o della tragicita dei due testi). 

Tornando ora ai saggi che privilegiano l’esame della valenza etica a partire 
dalle caratteristiche dell’opera stessa, dobbiamo citare almeno le analisi di S. L. 
Goldberg e, soprattutto, quelle di A. Z. Newton, il quale sostiene che “narrative 
situations create an immediacy and force, framing relations of provocation, call, 
and response that bind narrator and listener, author and character, or reader and 
text”: la retorica e la narrativa intese come etica, di fatto, si opporrebbero alle 
pretese totalizzanti dell’ontologia, e in questo senso ci troveremmo di fronte alle 
problematiche affrontate dai teorici e filosofi del postmoderno, in primo luogo 
Richard Rorty.* Ma il ruolo specifico del romanzo come mondo intermedio tra 
pubblico e privato, non forma di rispecchiamento ma nemmeno di 
immaginazione arbitraria, é stato di recente riproposto anche da Remo Bodei, il 
quale ha sottolineato il suo statuto di “sub-universo di realta” rifacendosi, piu 
che ai postmodernisti, a Leibniz, a W. James e, implicitamente, a Dilthey, senza 
peraltro sovrapporre forzatamente le teorie all’interpretazione diretta di alcuni 
testi esemplari come La morte di Virgilio.” 

Viceversa si é espresso contro la lettura etica della letteratura Harold Bloom 
nel suo // canone occidentale (specie 13 e 25-26). Ma il critico statunitense 
intende in senso concreto e sociale |’eticita ricavabile dalle opere letterarie, 
mentre la sua interpretazione estetica mirerebbe ad un miglioramento interiore e 
personale, per usare adeguatamente “quella solitudine la cui forma conclusiva € 





4 Newton 1-33. Cfr. Rorty, anche Adamson. Contrario alla lettura etica appare I’articolo 
di Posner in due parti apparso nel 1997 e nel 1998; nel secondo fascicolo si leggono 
anche importanti contributi di Nussbaum e Booth. 

> Vite parallele, specie 38-40. 


106 Alberto Casadei 


il proprio confronto con la propria mortalita” (26). Si puo ribattere che il valore 
etico di un testo sta, come meglio chiariremo, nella sua indicazione di una 
possibilita di comprensione etica di un comportamento non pre-interpretabile 
secondo le leggi morali e giuridiche vigenti, e dunque non ha una valenza 
direttamente sociale. Inoltre, la lettura etica, in specie della narrativa, é richiesta 
dall’organizzazione stessa della trama, e comporta spesso un confronto finale 
proprio con la dimensione della mortalita, che deve — o almeno é in grado di — 
rendere responsabili delle proprie azioni, di far riflettere sul loro senso: Ivan 
I’ic diventa personaggio significativo, ossia raccontabile, quando la sua sorte 
indistinta deve essere reinterpretata, da lui stesso e dal lettore, sulla base della 
consapevolezza della morte ormai imminente, e in cid acquista un valore etico 
esemplare (€ una morte, cioé, da personaggio, e necessita di una spiegazione- 
comprensione sulla base di quanto ci comunica la trama).° 

In sostanza, la presunta “immoralita’del romanzo é un aspetto della sua 
ricezione esterna, e diventa condizionante solo nei casi di opere che impongono 
e non chiedono una lettura etica, perché nate con intenti polemico-trasgressivi 
(ormai purtroppo altamente soggetti alle esigenze del mercato). Viceversa, la 
lettura etica anche di azioni passionali e non accettabili dal punto di vista delle 
leggi morali vigenti, spinge alla comprensione del sistema narrativo e del ruolo 
del personaggio nella trama (o nella strutturazione dell’opera, specie nei 
romanzi sperimentali del Novecento): in questo senso, la valutazione etica, 
all’interno della critica letteraria, deve superare il giwdizio sull’etica esplicita, 
per giungere alla ricostruzione di un’etica possibile, un’ipotesi di etica che il 
testo, in forme che definiremo meglio pili avanti, deve suggerire e supportare. 


Come ¢€ evidente, spunti di grande rilievo si possono ricavare da molti dei 
contributi sin qui citati, ma occorre almeno tentare di proporre un’ipotesi di 
analisi. Altrove si é€ sostenuto che i grandi romanzi sono in grado di esprimere 
un’etica possibile sulla base della capacita di rappresentare la morte.’ Qui si 
vorrebbe chiarire quando un romanzo é leggibile secondo una prospettiva etica 
senza prevaricazioni: deve cioé essere il testo ne/ suo insieme a richiedere una 
collaborazione del lettore per  giustificare-interpretare i comportamenti 
rappresentati. Com’é ovvio, sono in primo luogo i personaggi del novel a 
manifestare un atteggiamento etico di fronte a casi “verosimili”, ma non sempre 
l’interpretazione etica @ necessaria: quando, ad esempio, i protagonisti di 
Brancati si trovano a contrastare con la morale esterna e canonizzata, e 


° Sulle implicazioni del racconto tolstojano relative alla storia della mentalita cfr. Ariés 
232 ss. Sulla morte come fondamento delle narrazioni si vedano le osservazioni di 
Brooks, che ricava importanti suggerimenti, oltre che da Benjamin, dal Freud di A/ di /a 
del principio del piacere. 

’ Cfr., di chi scrive, Romanzi di Finisterre, specie 233-57. Sul tema della morte in 
letteratura cfr. le acute pagine di Zublena, specie 53-68. 


La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 107 


soprattutto con forme di moralismo sessuofobo, le loro reazioni paiono derivare 
dal conflitto che inevitabilmente si genera, ma non richiedono altro che 
un’attenta classificazione. I] comportamento risulta (anti)moralistico e di fatto 
demistificatorio, ma non si tratta di una possibilita di etica, bensi di un dato 
testuale ineliminabile (ancorché diversamente valutabile sul piano della riuscita 
artistica). Detto piu in generale: non tutti i comportamenti dei personaggi 
risultano problematici, ossia da interpretare nella loro interezza (incluse le loro 
implicazioni etiche) per farli divenire comprensibili. 

Al contrario, quando ci si presenta il comportamento del fenogliano Johnny, 
eroe che sa di combattere sotto il segno della morte, noi siamo chiamati a 
ricondurre la sua vicenda nella sfera dei comportamenti umani estremi: in altri 
termini, noi dobbiamo leggere anche eticamente |’azione di Johnny, 
considerando che quanto da lui compiuto raggiunge un senso solo al 
compimento della sua storia, ossia con la sua inevitabile caduta. || lettore-critico 
puo giustificare il grande stile e l’espressivismo della narrazione sulla base 
dell’eccezionalita dell’argomento, quello di un eroe epico che vive la sua morte 
giorno per giorno; ma, al di la della classica corrispondenza stile-contenuto, é in 
effetti l’incommensurabilita dell’esperienza bellica a rendere cosi adeguata la 
tensione linguistica del Partigiano Johnny, che mira a penetrare nell’essenza 
etica e tragica del reale. 

Rappresentare eventi estremi puo costituire, se |’autore riesce a creare una 
forma adeguata, un modo di ottenere un realismo non di facciata; tuttavia, tipi di 
realismo non esteriore sono raggiungibili attraverso qualsiasi trama, come ha 
benissimo dimostrato Peter Brooks grazie ad una rilettura freudiana delle analisi 
narratologiche di Barthes e di Genette:* va perd ribadito che il comportamento 
del personaggio deve anche essere compreso in sé. Non potra essere letta 
eticamente la connessione di catastrofi proposte in un film hollywoodiano del 
genere apocalittico (specie degli anni Novanta, quando gli effetti speciali sono 
diventati il fine) perché il catastrofismo invoca un’emotivita passiva (o una 
paura indotta) e non un’interpretazione razionale ed anche emotiva, ma 
attivamente emotiva, dell’azione dei personaggi. Viceversa dovra essere letto 
eticamente il comportamento di Giobbe, che rievoca momenti della sua 
esistenza, quando essa sembra volgere al termine, per contrapporsi alle morali 
codificate dei suoi interlocutori: le etiche possibili della narrazione giungono 
come varianti di quelle ufficiali, ed entrano in dialettica (o in polemica) con esse 
non solo esplicitamente e non solo su basi interamente motivabili, ma anche 
attraverso la costruzione di un atteggiamento diverso a seconda della situazione 
narrativa stessa.’ Solo il lettore pud cogliere il divenire dell’etica nel testo, che 


* Cfr. Brooks, specie il cap. I. 

” Su questo delicato problema cfr. Iser. Terremo anche conto delle posizioni di Bachtin 
(specie di Per una filosofia, ma anche il classico Estetica e romanzo), nonché di quelle, 
assai diverse, di Steiner. 


108 Alberto Casadei 


pero si appoggia su una logica interna e non sulle supposizioni del lettore stesso: 
l’etica possibile € diversamente interpretabile, ma non coincide con la 
valutazione esplicita dell’autore (nemmeno in eventuali auto-interpretazioni) e 
non puo essere ridotta ad uno schema rigido, perché si compone di ipotesi di 
esperienza, e non di modelli comportamentali (il che non implica che, alla fine, 
la nostra lettura dell’ etica ipotizzabile in un romanzo non possa essere sottoposta 
a giudizio, come ha fatto benissimo René Girard [29-79] a proposito dello 
Straniero di Camus).'° 

Da quanto sinora affermato si ricavera facilmente che il romanzo puod 
costituire un “esperimento”, collocarsi negli intermundia e nel novero delle 
possibilita valutabili solo se la configurazione complessiva della trama-p/otting 
richiede la necessita di un intervento del lettore per far suo, ossia per rendere 
esperienza ri-vivibile cid che € stato narrato a proposito di un essere umano, per 
quanto fittizio.'' Non sono pero proponibili limitazioni aprioristiche al campo 
del ‘‘narrabile eticamente”, giacché pure il romance nelle sue varie forme pud 
essere ricondotto a questa dimensione (sebbene molto spesso |laspetto 
dell’intreccio fantastico e/o edulcorante prevalga, nel qual caso si 
ripresenterebbe una monovalenza moralistica, anziché un’etica possibile); su un 
altro piano, persino in romanzi programmaticamente astratti come quelli 
dell’Ecole du regard & dato di cogliere una componente che _ richiede 
un’interpretazione etica, come nel caso della Battaglia di Farsalo, nella quale 
’io-stream informa della sua ossessione traumatica (quasi post-mortem) |’ intera 
descrizione della realta per frammenti, che non puo rimanere neutra proprio nel 
momento in cui aspirerebbe all’oggettivita  fotografica. Insomma, sono 
molteplici le possibilita di ottenere una trama che richieda una collaborazione 
specificamente etica del lettore-interprete, ma pare comunque necessario che 
siano riconoscibili i tratti di un comportamento o di una lettura della realta (in 
qualunque forma si presenti) che non possano essere autogiustificabili, e che 
siano confrontati, attraverso la trama, con una reinterpretazione complessiva del 
senso di un’esistenza umana."” 


'° Si noti che proprio Lo straniero, come gia i romanzi di Dostoevskij, richiama pit di 
frequente interpretazioni etico-filosofiche (ancora di recente da parte di uno scrittore e 
intellettuale come Yehoshua). Sulle letture filosofiche del romanzo europeo del 
Novecento, si veda Giacoletto Papas. 

'' Per gli spunti teorici concernenti questa sezione, cfr. soprattutto Ricoeur, Tempo e Sé 
come un altro. 

'2 Al di la delle posizioni teoriche, interessanti in questo senso le specifiche analisi e 
osservazioni di Yehoshua, specie xvi-xix. Nella sua raccolta di saggi, lo scrittore 
israeliano tiene conto della situazione sociologica, per vari aspetti sfavorevole in genere 
ai giudizi etici, ormai resi meno netti a causa sia delle varie forme di legislazione, sia 
delle giustificazioni dei comportamenti su base psicanalitica, sia dell’imporsi di modelli 
dettati dai mass-media. A tutto cid Yehoshua oppone che una critica che dia conto anche 
dei valori etici non é affatto secondaria 0 impositiva rispetto alla dinamica delle opere, 


La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 109 


Proviamo adesso a rileggere alcuni testi recenti della letteratura italiana da un 
punto di vista etico. Procederemo dapprima ad un/’analisi dei tratti essenziali di 
ciascuna opera, e poi ad una sintesi d’insieme. 

Il primo esempio € quello di Nati due volte, ultimo lavoro di Giuseppe 
Pontiggia, che non é facile definire romanzo, dal momento che la narrazione in 
prima persona procede piu per episodi salienti di un’autobiografia che non 
secondo una trama complessa. Tuttavia, gia il taglio dei singoli capitoletti, quasi 
sempre di poche pagine, assume un rilievo notevole, se pensato come la 
conseguenza di una selezione-distillazione di quanto, della lunga esperienza del 
narratore (il professor Frigerio), era davvero necessario raccontare. Questa 
rappresentazione sincopata di un’esistenza, quindi, chiama ad una verifica del 
senso dell’esistenza stessa, ossia di quanto viene raccontato per formare un 
disegno non unitario ma comunque coerente. 

Il capitolo di apertura, Scale mobili (13-15), quasi un’ ouverture, propone | 
narratore impegnato in una serie di complicate operazioni con un altro 
personaggio, che deve affrontare molte difficolta per salire sulle scale, e 
risponde a monosillabi alle domande di Frigerio. Solo alla fine il narratore ha il 
coraggio di definire la condizione dell’altro (“Lui procede ondeggiando come un 
marinaio ubriaco. No, come uno spastico”, 15, corsivo nostro). E proprio in quel 
momento, quando il linguaggio non lascia scampo al non ancora identificato 
“altro”, ebbene questo “altro”, che é il figlio Paolo, rivela tutta la sua dignita e 
forza interiore: “Si volta per dirmi con la sua voce stentata: ‘Se ti vergogni, puoi 
camminare a distanza. Non preoccuparti per me’” (15). 

Sono qui annunciati due caratteri fondamentali dell’opera di Pontiggia: da 
un lato lo scavo linguistico, che ha sempre contraddistinto gli scritti di questo 
autore, per rivelare i pregiudizi, le paure, le malvagita che si nascondono dietro 
un uso apparentemente piano delle parole e delle frasi fatte (il Flaubert del 
Dizionario dei luoghi comuni @ senza dubbio un modello importante in questa 
prospettiva, benché limitato al versante della so/tise); da un altro lato, la 
rivendicazione di una dignita propria dell’essere umano, sebbene portatore di 
handicap, passa attraverso la verifica che l’essere “normali” non significa nulla, 
mentre l’essere se stessi, magari ri-nascendo alla vita dopo una prima nascita 
incompiuta, é condizione che persone menomate nel fisico possono conquistare 
per vie diverse, e a volte pit affascinanti, di quelle dei “normali.” 





ma anzi puo permettere di cogliere gli aspetti pil interessanti dei personaggi e della 
trama, come dimostrano le otto analisi condotte su testi che vanno dalla Genesi sino ad un 
racconto di Raymond Carver. Problema di fondo resta quello di conciliare liberta della 
valutazione di tipo estetico e necessita vincolante di quella di tipo etico, che, se intesa 
rigidamente, potrebbe persino far previlegiare un pessimo romanzo “moralmente 
corretto” ad uno problematico e innovativo come Delitto e castigo o il gia citato Lo 
straniero. 


110 Alberto Casadei 


Risulta allora comprensibile il perché le micro-sequenze di Nati due volte 
corrispondono spesso a quell’uso dell’aforisma che suggella le opere maggiori 
di Pontiggia, ad esempio le splendide Vite di uomini non illustri (Milano, 
Mondadori, 1993): grazie agli incontri, 0 pill spesso scontri, con le persone che 
devono collaborare allo sviluppo di Paolo (medici, insegnanti, terapeuti), 
Frigerio ha modo di verificare quanto le parole risultino essenziali per costruire 
un corretto rapporto, senza falsita volontarie 0 (come sempre si dice) 
involontarie, comprese quelle del lessico politically correct. Ma la sensibilita 
verso le sfumature e le implicazioni linguistiche (95-97) alla fine non pare pit 
sufficiente a descrivere |’esperienza con un figlio handicappato, che non si lascia 
ridurre unicamente a linguaggio, come afferma la moglie Franca: ‘‘Lui 
[Frigerio] é attento solo al linguaggio, non gli badi troppo” [...]. “Ci sono tante 
cose che non passano per il linguaggio!” [...] Ci vorranno almeno vent’anni 
prima di capire che Franca ha ragione” (105). 

Ecco, il percorso di Nati due volte potrebbe essere definito come la parabola 
che ha insegnato a interpretare il linguaggio assieme a quanto non viene 
espresso linguisticamente: un’etica intra- e interpersonale si instaura per la 
continua necessita di avvicinarsi al figlio non pretendendo di identificarsi con 
lui, ma anzi sforzandosi di comprendere le sue prerogative e le sue potenzialita, 
per certi aspetti (ad esempio quello della fede) superiori a quelle del padre. 
Frigerio affronta prove complesse, schermaglie psicologiche che non sono 
sempre a lui favorevoli, specie quando é costretto a rivelare i suoi proprii limiti 
O i suoi sentimenti non irreprensibili (“Tutto si puO comandare tranne cid che si 
prova’, recita una delle pitt belle sentenze dell’opera, 68). Ma al termine di 
un’esperienza durissima che perd, come dice uno dei pochi medici davvero 
competente, migliora chi la compie (35), il narratore riesce davvero a dimostrare 
la sua metanoia, e lo fa in un episodio che riguarda principalmente lui stesso e 
lamico Carlo (non il figlio): i due si sono avventurati in mare, e all’improvviso 
Carlo sta per essere sommerso; Frigerio lotta per salvarlo ma é sul punto di 
cedere, e tuttavia continua a lottare per sé e per |’amico, fino a quando vengono 
tratti in salvo (130-34). 

Il commento a questo episodio, fra l’altro stilisticamente molto teso e 
drammatico (lontano dal tono tipico di Pontiggia), emerge nell’ambito di una 
conversazione tra una dottoressa e il narratore, che dice: “Ero contento di me. 
Ero pronto a morire e non lo odiavo” (136). Qui si manifesta il senso etico 
dell’esperienza vissuta da Frigerio: la capacita di accettare i] bisogno altrui non 
come limitazione di sé ma come completamento della propria condizione 
esistenziale. Si tratta di un tipo di etica vicina per molti tratti a quella cristiana 
dell’altruismo, ma Frigerio mantiene qualche riluttanza ad accettarne le 


conseguenze religiose, dal momento che il suo scandaglio razionale gli 
impedisce di accogliere parole dai significati aprioristici. Pero nelle pagine 
conclusive il narratore riflette sulla propensione verso il bene, meno 


appariscente ma pili significativa di quella verso il male (214-15), e poi sulla 


La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 111 


possibilita di entrare pienamente in contatto con il figlio, sebbene per un solo 
attimo (232): al termine del percorso biografico cid é possibile, e il lettore non 
puo non interpretare eticamente quanto é€ stato narrato per giustificare tale 
conclusione. 


Molto diverso il caso rappresentato da // plagio di Camilla Baresani. Siamo di 
fronte ad un romanzo “ben costruito”, che sfrutta appieno le tecniche del 
montaggio, del racconto nel racconto, del cambiamento del punto di vista: 
insomma, |’organizzazione narrativa risulta quanto mai sapiente (e basti leggere 
le osservazioni tecniche di 73). Ma anche in questo caso la voce narrante e, per 
gran parte del romanzo, quella della protagonista, Clara, che ripercorre la sua 
vicenda partendo dalla quasi-conclusione, quando trova un personaggio a lei 
noto disteso a terra nel proprio appartamento, in cui la donna é penetrata di 
nascosto. Sembrerebbe trattarsi di un giallo con anticipazione degli eventi, e in 
qualche misura cid é@ vero; tuttavia la trama non ci conduce a seguire 
intellettualmente ed emotivamente la scoperta di un colpevole (il plagiario di un 
romanzo inedito di Clara), quanto a penetrare nell’evoluzione psicologica della 
protagonista, che nell’impresa della vendetta mette in gioco la sua esistenza, la 
vita familiare altoborghese ma anche la sua raffinatezza e la sua sensibilita. 

Il plagiario, Marco Minghetti, ¢ infatti un personaggio sordido e rozzo, non 
privo di una sua cultura e pero intrinsecamente bestiale, capace di sovrastare 1 
piu deboli ma non di penetrare nella psicologia della donna che gli si ¢ 
avvicinata quale ammiratrice e amante. In realta, é solo il punto di vista di Clara 
a dominare: la sua voce risuona umoristica e ironica, ma spesso velata dalle 
tracce di un dolore che si manifesta in un profondo disgusto per tutto il mondo a 
lei circostante, un disgusto che ha a lungo paralizzato gran parte delle sue 
capacita creative. Tuttavia, se la voce rimanesse identica a se stessa, sarebbe 
forte il rischio di giungere alle confessioni di un’anima bella disingannata dalla 
vita; viceversa s’instaura ben presto una sorta di dialettica interna alla 
narrazione, che porta a rivelare la duplicita dei sentimenti e delle intenzioni di 
Clara. II disgusto, allora, si combina con il desiderio di essere amata: Minghetti 
é orrendo, ma, dice la protagonista, “questi e altri particolari, che teoricamente 
non potevano che schifarmi, mi aprirono gli occhi su cid che stava capitando. E 
difficile riconoscerlo, ma ero innamorata. Come definire d’altronde il piacere 
che mi dava annusare la sua pelle, con quell’odore forte e riconoscibilissimo, 
che mi piaceva fiutare da lontano, non diversamente da quello che fa un cane col 
padrone?” (167). 

“Quanto é breve il sentiero, / che dal finto in amor conduce al vero” recita il 
titolo del capitolo da cui é tratto il brano ora riportato: ed é citazione 
metastasiana (Alessandro nell’Indie | 295-96) quanto mai raffinata e 
significativa (come le molte altre, da Agostino a Fenoglio, da Flaiano a Folengo 
a La Rochefoucauld, modello non ininfluente). In effetti la vendetta lungamente 
cercata deve passare attraverso una fase di ammirazione-soggezione e addirittura 


112 Alberto Casadei 


di innamoramento nei confronti del nemico, quasi che i] disgusto preventivo nei 
confronti della realta dovesse essere vinto proprio accettando il disgustoso, il 
rozzo, |l’abietto. La voce di Clara narra con apparente distacco quella che poteva 
diventare un’autodistruzione, se, anziché perseguire una sua giustizia personale 
— ma insieme eticamente fondata — contro i profittatori mediocri e ipocriti, che 
vivono sopprimendo gli spiriti pit: delicati e deboli, avesse deciso di cedere e 
diventare una parte del mondo immorale. 

Non si pensi pero ad un moralismo facile, ad un finale compensatorio da 
romanzo borghese ottocentesco: l’analisi della borghesia ormai imbolsita 
proposta dalla Baresani risulta, senza oltranzismi ideologici 0, appunto, 
moralistici, quanto mai spietata, perché nemmeno la sua protagonista si puo dire 
immune dalle tendenze che quel mondo manifesta. Clara deve rinunciare ad 
essere una copia di Minghetti, come al momento culminante dell’azione corre il 
rischio di divenire, per poter superare |’intento di vendicarsi unicamente per sé. 
Deve realizzarsi non come “cane” (si ripensi alla similitudine di 167) ma come 
“volpe’”, che “é un lupo che manda fiori”, secondo quanto si legge nel sottotitolo 
del romanzo: cioé, ancora una volta, un animale, ma ambiguo, furbo e nello 
stesso tempo forte e feroce. Solo in questo modo si puo superare la propria 
condizione di apatia e di egocentrismo, per arrivare ad una forma di etica, 
magari priva di misericordia, perché cosi impone la giustizia da perpetrare. 

I] finale del Plagio (200-20) é scritto in terza persona, e il punto di vista 
adottato € a lungo quello di Minghetti. Questo ulteriore artificio permette di 
oggettivare la scelta di Clara, portando in primo piano |’abiezione mediocre del 
plagiario. I] disgusto e la vendetta finiscono col sovrapporsi al desiderio di una 
giustizia che va oltre il sentimento (ancora incerto: si veda l’altalenanza di Clara 
nel dialogo con Marco di 214-15). Cosi si giunge ad un finale senza dubbio 
spletato, con Minghetti abbandonato moribondo, perché “/’odio vero lo provi 
solo per chi conosci’’ (220, c. orig.), e perché odio diventa appunto, dopo 
quanto é avvenuto, una forma di giustizia. Non potremmo approvare legalmente, 
e€ nemmeno secondo la morale comune, i] comportamento di Clara: e tuttavia, la 
costruzione della trama, non monolitica bensi frastagliata, spinge a giustificare 
lo scioglimento. La protagonista narra di sé, ma il lettore € chiamato a integrare 
e comprendere la logica a tratti contraddittoria del suo comportamento: non si 
mostra un’etica pre-costituita, bensi il suo costituirsi. 


Altri sono i casi interessanti di personaggi che impongono di interpretare il loro 
comportamento: un esempio é ricavabile da un altro romanzo recente, La donna 
di scorta, di Diego De Silva. In esso, il tema classico dell’adulterio € trattato con 
originalita, in modo da ottenere una ricognizione psicologica ed etica non 
banale: attraverso la dettagliata ricostruzione dei micro-movimenti sentimentali 
dei personaggi si ottiene una vicenda basata sulle continue sfasature tra le 
intenzioni e gli atti, quelle sfasature che alla fine impediscono la realizzazione 
della promesse du bonheur. Dal punto di vista strutturale sono le azioni assurde, 


La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 113 


che esplodono dopo una lunga trafila di fatti privi di rilevanza, a dare 
espressione all’inespresso. In assoluto il gesto pit assurdo é quello quasi 
conclusivo di Dorina, |’amante misteriosa (e appunto per questo da interpretare), 
priva di una sua vita anteriore, che si dedica senza illusioni al rapporto con 
Livio, dubbioso e al fondo egoista: la lacerazione del libro da lui regalatole 
costituisce un chiaro equivalente simbolico della condizione di frattura cui i 
continui compromessi hanno ridotto la relazione. Livio, in effetti, si scopre alla 
fine bisognoso anche dell’amore della moglie Laura e della figlia Martina, e 
mostra, nel suo desiderio di non perdere nulla, una forza d’animo inferiore a 
quella di Dorina. Nell’organizzazione stilistica gioca un ruolo di grande 
importanza la “sottoconversazione”: l’inserimento di frasi pensate dai 
protagonisti nel mezzo di parti narrate provoca alterazioni sintattico-linguistiche, 
e soprattutto fa percepire la storia, volutamente lineare, da angolature diverse. 
Inoltre, De Silva conclude spesso una lunga e minuziosa descrizione con un 
finale spiazzante, che magari introduce un commento o il pensiero stesso di un 
personaggio. In questi tratti si possono riconoscere varie ascendenze (ad 
esempio Piovene e soprattutto Pontiggia) o affinita, in particolare con il Marias 
indagatore dei risvolti oscuri del rapporto d’amore. Anche in questo caso, 
comunque, |’interpretazione etica porta a compimento i! disegno testuale. 

Nel romanzo successivo di De Silva, Certi bambini, nuove tecniche 
narrative e nuove scelte stilistiche vengono impiegate per riuscire a manipolare 
la crudezza del nuovo argomento, le vicende di un bambino di undici anni, 
Rosario, in apparenza un orfano costretto ad arrangiarsi, in realta legato alla 
mala di una Napoli mai nominata ma riconoscibilissima, e addirittura killer 
senza rimorsi. La violenza é quindi lo sfondo e il refrain di Certi bambini: e si 
potrebbe pensare ad un adeguamento rispetto a mode recenti. Invece De Silva 
riesce a spostare il punto di vista della sua narrazione, in modo da farci cogliere 
cosa sta dietro e dentro \a violenza che domina la vita di Rosario: e qui sta la 
valenza implicitamente etica dell’intero testo. Una delle scene pit 
impressionanti del romanzo é€ quella dell’iniziazione del bambino (69-72), 
costretto dal pit grande Damiano a finire un cane, che gli aveva appena 
dimostrato tutto il suo affetto: la sorpresa del lettore sta proprio nel trovare, a 
contatto e in contraddizione brutalmente palese, manifestazioni di compassione, 
che paiono rivelarsi anche nei pit spietati, e altre di improvvisa e ingiustificabile 
efferatezza. 

Cosi l’autore evita la monotonia della violenza ridotta a pretesto, e al limite 
estetizzata, per renderla pit' vitalmente contraddittoria. Rosario sara nel corso di 
tutto il romanzo artefice e insieme vittima della sua aspirazione a diventare “uno 
che conta.” La banalita della sua vita di ogni giorno poteva lasciare spazio ad un 
diverso sviluppo, ed é quello che in effetti il bambino tenta di seguire, 
accostandosi ad un’altra guida, il carismatico Santino, volontario in un centro di 
recupero gestito da don Alfonso, sacerdote impegnato anche sul fronte della 
lotta ai soprusi dei fuorilegge. La vita di Rosario procede dunque tra continue 


114 Alberto Casadei 


contraddizioni e continue scelte: ma un bambino non distingue fra bene e male. 
Quuesta situazione porta ad una svolta drammatica, quando alcuni malavitosi, 
chiamati proprio dal bambino, rubano la moto di Santino e lo umiliano: Rosario 
si era voluto vendicare perché il suo amico gli aveva, senza saperlo, sottratto 
Caterina, la ragazza che era idealmente diventata una compagna-madre, e che 
invece morira di parto dopo poco. Una sorta di spirale conduce insomma 
Rosario a mescolare le sue due vite, ovvero a reagire ai torti, ma anche agli 
abusi, con una volonta di sopraffazione persino nei confronti delle persone care. 

In questa prospettiva il romanzo di De Silva chiede una risposta diretta da 
parte del lettore, che infatti viene chiamato in causa in pili circostanze. Ed é 
ancora un mondo diverso, il mondo della quotidianita priva di eventi degli 
uomini “qualunque”, che entra in contrasto con quello della violenza pit 
eccezionale: un giudizio etico pare inevitabile, ma non puo essere rigido e 
precostituito, perché il lettore viene a conoscere pure gli aspetti nascosti del 
bambino-killer, e non solo il suo retroterra sociale (peraltro rappresentato con 
grande precisione), bensi soprattutto le sue angosce, il suo essere costretto a 
decidere, il suo voler essere “qualcuno” per non venire distrutto. 

Per seguire una trama cosi frastagliata l’autore adotta piu registri: fra gli 
altri, dominano il tono duro, schematico e paratattico delle descrizioni, quasi 
impersonali (da nouveau roman), delle scene pili crude, assassini o torture o 
lotte per sopravvivere; e quello piu brioso ma non lirico dei momenti di serenita 
con i ragazzi del volontariato, con l’amata Caterina e poi con il suo avatar, una 
timida ragazza del metro che Rosario non riesce né a difendere da un sopruso né 
a conoscere. E anche la struttura della trama appare piuttosto complessa, con il 
frequente ricorso ai flash-back e con lo spostarsi dell’asse principale del 
racconto: addirittura, la conclusione arriva mentre varie vicende paiono ancora o 
appena aperte (e in realta rimandano all’inizio della trama). 

I] fatto é che la storia di Rosario non deve approdare ad un esito comico o 
tragico, ma, sul modello dei romanzi di matrice picaresca (e si potrebbe citare 
qui, a confronto, un testo durissimo come L'ucce/lo dipinto di Jerzy Kosinski), 
deve invece lasciare aperta la possibilita di ulteriore sviluppo. La conclusione di 
De Silva, che descrive ancora una volta ne/ testo la vita di ogni giorno dei 
possibili lettori, delega proprio a questi ultimi l’impegno a ripensare tutta la 
vicenda di Rosario, a prolungarla dentro il loro mondo. La costruzione etica 
risulta anche in questo caso implicita ma non trascurabile, e richiede quindi 
un’adeguata estrapolazione. 


Un ultimo esempio puo essere costituito da Scuola di nudo, complesso e 
ricchissimo romanzo di Walter Siti. In questo caso, la forma del romanzo e 
quella dell’autobiografia rimandano continuamente l’una all’altra, spesso con 
affermazioni che si smentiscono o si contraddicono (si confrontino ad esempio 
471: “questa é un’autobiografia e non un romanzo”, e 597: “Pisa é una citta che 
non conosco”, mentre quasi tutta l’azione vi risulta ambientata). Dunque, un 


La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 115 


romanzo-autobiografia, che mantiene del primo tutti i caratteri del montaggio e 
della polifonia, e della seconda quelli della volonta rousseauiana di rivelarsi 
interamente e del bisogno agostiniano di confessarsi in guanto colpevole. 

Il protagonista e narratore Walter € inserito nel mondo accademico, 
dominato dalla logica servo-padrone, dalla volonta di potenza (astratta), e ad 
esso oppone la sua esibita diversita. L’essere omosessuale, reietto e senza padre, 
odiato dal fratello fortunato Matteo (“il Walter-ego”, d’altronde altrettanto 
odiato in ricambio), farebbe si che il personaggio si vada ad affiancare ai maudit 
novecenteschi, ai trasgressori per volonta di vivere, da Genet in poi. Ecco quindi 
che il suo comportamento viene costruito in modo che sia considerato 
mostruoso, crudele per delirio di onnipotenza nei confronti dei deboli, come una 
gattina che viene uccisa quasi senza motivo: 


Finalmente mi graffia e non esito pil: sotto il tavolo dove si é ritirata non c’é Malvina 
[nome della gattina], c’¢ un bisogno senza forma, un’esigenza che non si riempira mai. I] 
collo é esilissimo, posso contare le punte sotto la fodera di pelo, si agita per protesta, tutta 
lei € molto leggera. Mamma questo é€ per te. Strizzo e le dita si uniscono, la trachea é€ 
come il tubo di un palloncino: un’obiezione stonata, un misero springare delle gambe di 
dietro, un arricciare di labbra; poi mi spavento perché non so per quanto tempo devo 
tenere premuto, quello che ho tra le mani é una fresa incontrollabile, un piccolo ordigno 
rotondo digrignante. La pelle sottile dovrebbe lacerarsi contro |’osso vivo delle vertebre, 
perché non lo fa? La testa le si gira come a una marionetta 0 a un indemoniato, strabica, 
uno strano liquido incolore esce dai denti, /a@ in fondo. Non ho saputo esser degno del 
soffocamento, sono di nuovo solo con me stesso. 

Ho un graffio anche sul palmo, non mi ricordo quando € stato; aspiro il mio sangue, il 
dato pit deprimente é che per un attimo mi sono illuso di provare qualcosa di speciale, 
come forare una membrana o bucare un tramezzo, invece pfff. Materia, grumi. Meglio 
liberarsi di lei, prima che si irrigidisca la differenza tra una gattina uccisa e un gatto 
morto. Entro in camera a prendere un fazzoletto (un drappo funebre, in qualche modo) e 
la sveglia fosforescente segna le tre e dieci — di giorno o di notte? La camera é in 
penombra: sono perfettamente in grado di intendere e di volere. Il cielo carnoso ¢ una 
mano che preme. Depongo sul fazzoletto il cadavere, devo illuminarlo per vederlo 


meglio: non ci sono dubbi, tutto é opera mia e io non sono un altro 
(227-28, c. orig.). 


Nel lungo brano la pulsione omicida sembra quasi teatralizzata, non solo perché 
si sarebbe attuata in un momento di schizofrenia (e si riveda il finale, 
enfaticamente assertivo e perciO rassicurante); ma anche perché I’azione viene 
rappresentata come se si dovesse percepire la crudelta stessa, che porterebbe in 
un certo senso ad una nobilitazione di Walter, il quale si sente ed € considerato 
troppo inferiore ai forti. L’assassinio dovrebbe procurargli l’ebbrezza del 
vincitore, del sopravvissuto (nel senso di Canetti), di chi e signore della vita e 
della morte (e si noti che é possibile riscontrare alcune somiglianze con 
l’assassinio di un soldato descritto da John Barth nel suo L’opera galleggiante, 
1956, trad. it. Milano, Bompiani 1996, 80). Ma in realta il risultato appare 


116 Alberto Casadei 


ancora una volta misero: la “gattina uccisa” potrebbe diventare un qualsiasi 
“gatto morto”, senza conferire la maledizione sacra della morte procurata. 

Piu avanti ancora Walter si dichiara autore di un omicidio colposo (471-77). 
Ma il gioco al rialzo, all’interno di questo “body-buildungsroman” che sarebbe 
costituito dall’“‘autoritratto di un mostro” (304), in effetti nasconde la sostanziale 
fragilita psicologica del protagonista, il suo essere per natura vulnerabile in 
conseguenza dell’ incapacita di presentarsi come debole a chi é debole come lui. 
In quest’ottica, il rapporto omoerotico con lo sgraziato e fisicamente minato 
Ruggero rappresenta la vera possibilita di opporsi alla logica socio-politico- 
economica del rapporto servo-padrone, ma anche a quella psicologicamente 
soffocante del desiderio mimetico, che, come ha mostrato Girard, costringerebbe 
a puntare sempre piu in alto nella perversa volonta di raggiungere il pieno 
possesso dell’essere amato. Proust e Dostoevskij non risultano presenze 
marginali in queste pagine, ma entrano (soprattutto il primo) direttamente nella 
trama del rapporto amoroso: solo che alla fine, al posto del corpo perfetto dei 
culturisti, Walter vwole amare il misero Ruggero. 

Sarebbe lungo seguire la complessa articolazione della vicenda che conduce 
(0 meglio ri-conduce) a questo riconoscimento;'* importa invece notare che le 
affermazioni “da mostro” del narratore corrispondono pit ad uno schermo e ad 
una difesa preventiva che non ad una oggettiva descrizione degli eventi. II 
peccato di cui pentirsi, semmai, é il non aver amato senza compromessi chi era 
simile, per mostrarsi potente almeno nei suoi confronti. Ma il lettore deve 
estrarre questa dolente constatazione dall’interno della logica narrativa, magari 
aiutato da alcuni commenti lirici che rivelano il sottofondo eticamente sofferto 
dell’espressione antietica esplicita. La narrazione di Scuola di nudo appare cosi 
falsa e vera nello stesso tempo: |’autobiografia verissima appare come una 
grande difesa della debolezza e della pietas impossibile nel mondo accademico, 
perfetta quintessenza della societa basata sul legame servo-padrone. 


Com’é evidente, le analisi ora condotte focalizzano solo alcuni aspetti delle 
Opere esaminate, ma, rapportate alla trama complessiva, ne rivelano una 
componente costitutiva. In altre parole, il lettore é testualmente tenuto a fornire 
una sua interpretazione riguardo ai comportamenti dei personaggi principali per 
riuscire a leggere il senso della loro vicenda. Cid é evidente in specie nei 
romanzi di Baresani e De Silva, che si basano su un intreccio ben costruito, e 
giocano sul rapporto prima/terza persona. 

Viceversa, nei casi di Pontiggia e Siti é il modello della (pseudo)- 
autobiografia a organizzare implicitamente la narrazione. In questo caso, il 
significato della costruzione etica dipende dal rapporto che il testo segnala e che 
il lettore deve instaurare fra la vicenda dei protagonisti-narratori e |’etica 
vigente. Pontiggia tende a decostruire luoghi comuni linguistico-stilistici, sulla 


'? Un’analisi viene proposta, da chi scrive, in // corpo come soggetto conoscente 195-97. 


La narrazione etica: esempi dal romanzo italiano 117 


scorta di una vigile e raziocinante riflessione sul linguaggio: ma il suo 
protagonista si accorge che il linguaggio non pud dire tutto, che occorre 
accettare anche chi non sa parlare, per cogliere un senso nell’esistere, e nello 
stesso tempo accettare persino la propria morte ingiustificata (si ripensi 
all’episodio dell’annegamento sfiorato). Siti si contrappone come mostro alle 
forme di relazioni di potere (servo-padrone), che impediscono la realizzazione 
compluta del desiderio: ma la sua “mostruosita”, esercitabile contro il debole 
che chiederebbe so/o misericordia (ecco ancora la violenza del potente), non pud 
essere mantenuta quando il proprio amato, debolissimo, si avvia a scomparire. 
L’amore verso il corpo bisognoso supera anche |’anti-etica del protagonista di 
Scuola di nudo, che si colloca percid fra i romanzi eticamente interpretabili sulla 
base di una dialettica del desiderio (il cui esempio massimo, in rapporto alla 
forma autobiografica, é costituito dalla gia citata Recherche), e non fra quelli in 
cui la trasgressione coincide con una volonta di potenza frustrata, come in molte 
operette italiane falsamente trasgressive della seconda meta degli anni Novanta. 


Universita degli Studi di Pisa 


Opere citate 


Adamson J., R. Freadman, and D. Parker, Renegotiating Ethics in Literature, Philosophy, 
and Theory, Cambridge, Cambridge UP, 1999. 

Ariés P., Storia della morte in Occidente, 1975, Milano, Rizzoli, 1997. 

Bachtin M., Estetica e romanzo, 1975, Torino, Einaudi, 1979. 

, Per una filosofia dell’azione responsabile, 1920-24, Lecce, Manni, 1998. 
Baresani C. // plagio (La volpe é un lupo che manda fiori), Milano, Mondadori, 2000. 
Bloom H., // canone occidentale, 1994, Milano, Bompiani, 1999. 

Bodei R., “Vite parallele. Etica e romanzo”. Nuova Civilta delle Macchine 18.1 (2000), 
35-42. 

Booth W. C., The Company We Keep. An Ethics of Fiction, Berkeley, U of California P, 
1988. 

Brooks P., Trame, 1984, Torino, Einaudi, 1995. 

Casadei A., // corpo come soggetto conoscente: sondaggi nella narrativa italiana 
contemporanea, Atti Convegno Lipsia (giugno 2000), Kérper und Schrift, Bonn, 
Romantischer Verlag, 2001, 191-98. 

. rec. a M. Nussbaum, “Il giudizio del poeta”, Strumenti critici 14.1 [89] (1999), 
143-48. 

, Romanzi di Finisterre. Narrazione della guerra e problemi del realismo, Roma, 
Carocci, 2000. 

Culler J., Sulla decostruzione, 1982, Milano, Bompiani, 1988. 

De Silva D., La donna di scorta, Ancona, PeQuod, 1999 (poi Torino, Einaudi, 2001). 

. Certi bambini, Torino, Einaudi, 2001. 

Eskin M., Ethics and Dialogue, New York, Oxford UP, 2000. 


118 Alberto Casadei 


Giacoletto Papas V., Filosofia e romanzo, Torino, Paravia, 1999. 
Girard R., Menzogna romantica e verita romanzesca, 1961, Milano, Bompiani, 1981. 
, “Per un nuovo processo dello Straniero”, 1964, n. ed., 1976, Il risentimento, 

Milano, Cortina, 1999, 29-79. 

Goldberg S. L., Agents and Lives, Moral Thinking in Literature, Cambridge, Cambridge 
UP... 1993. 

Iser W., L‘atto della lettura. Una teoria della risposta estetica, 1976, Bologna, I] Mulino, 
1987. 

Miller Hillis J., L ‘etica della lettura, 1987, Modena, Mucchi, 1989. 

Newton A. Z., Narrative Ethics, Cambridge, Harvard UP, 1995. 

Nussbaum M. C., // giudizio del poeta. Imn:aginazione letteraria e vita civile, 1995, 
Milano, Feltrinelli, 1996. 

Pontiggia G., Nati due volte, Milano, Mondadori, 2000. 

Posner R. A., “Against Ethical Criticism (I-I])°, Philosophy and Literature 21 (1997), 1- 
27; 22 (1998), 394-412. 

Richards I. A., / fondamenti della critica letteraria, 1924, Torino, Einaudi, 1972. 

Ricoeur P., Sé come un altro, 1990, Milano, Jaca Book, 1993. 

. Tempo e racconto Il. La configurazione del tempo nel racconto di finzione, 
1984, Milano, Jaca Book, 1987. 

Rorty R., La filosofia dopo la filosofia, 1989, Roma, Laterza, 1989. 

Scholes R., Protocols of Reading, New Haven, Yale UP, 1989. 

Siti W., Scuola di nudo, Torino, Einaudi, 1994. 

Steiner G., Vere presenze, 1989, Milano, Garzanti, 1992. 

Yehoshua A. B., // potere terribile di una piccola colpa. Etica e letteratura, 1998, 
Torino, Einaudi, 2000. 

Zublena P., “Cartoline da Vega. Il tema della morte nella poesia di Caproni, dal lutto a//a 
meditatio mortis”, Istmi 5-6 (1999), 53-124 





Norma Bouchard 





Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics 
of Postmodernist Storytelling 


Mi trovai dunque a Milano, nel Sessantotto con nel mio bagaglio l’idea incerta di questo 
Sorriso, e la nuova realta, il nuovo clima in cui ero immerso, mi spaesarono, si, 
obbligandomi perd a osservare, a studiare, a cercare di capire, di capirmi. E passarono 
anni per definire il progetto, convincermi della sua consonanza con il tempo, con la 
realta, con le nuove etiche e nuove estetiche che essa imponeva [... ]. 

Consolo, “Nota dell’autore, vent’anni dopo” (181; emphasis added) 


Vincenzo Consolo has often attributed, to his fictional writing, an ethical status. 
Yet, none of his historical novels provide the reader with the totalizing ethical 
“truths” that are consistent with the conceptual framework of modernity. From // 
sorriso dell’ignoto marinaio to Lunaria, from Retablo to the very recent Lo 
spasimo di Palermo, Consolo’s narratives question the edifice of representation 
and the metaphysical claims upon which such an edifice rests. In short, despite 
Consolo’s humanistic conception of writing, his novels weaken the 
epistemological guarantees that ground norms for moral behavior. 

Consolo’s aesthetic practice, however, cannot be disregarded as a symptom 
of the insecurities of the present age, but prompts one to ask the following 
questions: Can a narrative that is traversed by the debunking of the conceptual 
framework of modernity still articulate an ethical call to responsibility and 
justice? Is the ethical imperative resilient enough to survive a post-rationalist 
episteme? If so, how can ethical writing be deployed after the de-legitimizing 
effect of postmodernist thought? 

In order to address these questions, | begin by re-examining the ethical 
claims made by Consolo in the interview Fuga dall’Etna. | argue that the 
reciprocity between novelistic writing and ethical imperative is no longer 
located, for Consolo, in the legislative ethical “truths” of modernity, but resides 
in a revision of the genre of the historical novel and its referential language. 
Such revision is reflected in // sorriso dell’ignoto marinaio. While the open- 
ended story of this 1976 historical novel dramatizes, without solving, ethical 
paradoxes, its pluralized and fragmented narrative discourse dissolves the 
stability of the enunciation, thereby suggesting that language has ceased to be a 
vehicle for the transmission of absolute “truths.” Nonetheless, since a 
humanistic commitment to justice and responsibility is a constant in Consolo’s 
work, I outline a conceptual framework to assess the ethical import of // sorriso. 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


120 Norma Bouchard 


I do so by combining Lévinas’s post-rationalist description of the ethical 
moment with Newton’s Lévinas-inspired model of ethical narratology. I then 
turn to a reading of // sorriso and suggest that the ethical discourse of the novel 
emerges out of an intersubjective encounter binding tellers and_ listeners, 
including us, as readers and critics of narrative. In the gaps created by the 
interruption of a continuous, stable flow of narration, and in the differential 
patterns of representation established by a plurality of voices and points of view, 
readers will articulate an ethical moment of signification. No longer founded 
upon a predetermined system of morality and judgement, this ethical moment 
arises out of the unconditional act of responsibility and obligation of one-for- 
the-Other. 

In the interview known as Fuga dall’Etna,' Consolo reverses Benjamin’s 
famous description of the novelist from “The Storyteller: Reflections on the 
Works of Nikolai Leskov.” Whereas for Benjamin the novelist has become 
incapable of offering readers the moral counseling of “the epic side of truth” 
(86-87), Consolo attributes an undeniable ethical status to his narratives. As the 
following passage suggests, he describes his writing as a commitment to fight, 
through the pen, the abuses and injustices of society: “La mia ideologia o se 
volete la mia utopia consiste nell’oppormi al potere, qualsiasi potere, nel 
combattere con I’arma della scrittura, che € come la fionda di David, 0 meglio 
come la lancia di Don Chisciotte, le ingiustizie, le sopraffazioni, le violenze, i 
mali e gli orrori del nostro tempo” (70). 

Despite this quotation, however, it would be wrong to assume that, for 
Consolo, the reciprocity between novelistic discourse and ethical imperative’ is 
founded upon legislative ethical “truths,” upon the expression of norms and 
criteria for ethical behavior, exemplified, for instance, in the exemplariness of 
the fictional tale and its protagonists. As the interview suggests, for Consolo 
ethical content is articulated in narrative form. More specifically, it is produced 
by experimental discursive structures, that is to say, by the revision of the 
traditional form of the historical novel and its referential use of language or, in 
the author’s words, by a “romanzo storico-metaforico” (70) tending towards “un 
impasto linguistico e una ‘plurivocita’” (16). 

Combining the insights of contemporary authors, including his beloved 


' Even though I focus only on Fuga dall ‘Etna, in a number of other writings Consolo has 
made analogous claims for his narrative discourse. See, for example Parazzoli, “L’isola 
perduta di Vincenzino,” which contains another interview with the author. Of interest is 
also Consolo, “Nota dell’autore, vent’anni dopo,” // sorriso dell'ignoto marinaio (173- 
83). 

* For additional discussion on the reciprocity established by Consolo between ethics and 
narrative discourse, see also De Donato, “// sorriso dell'ignoto marinaio di Vincenzo 
Consolo” (121-22), Di Legami, Vincenzo Consolo (5-9, 18-29), and Burgaretta, “Mito e 
ragione” (173-77). 


Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 121 


Sciascia as well as a number of German writers associated with Gruppe 47, such 
as H. M. Enzensberger, Schmidt, and Kluge, Consolo describes his revisionist 
historiography as an act of polemical remembrance. Its function is not that of 
fictionalizing official history, but of bringing to the present what has been erased 
from collective memory. For Consolo, this erasure has either occurred through 
acts of conscious, cathartic effacement, as was the case of the German 
repression of the memory of the Holocaust,’ or through the imposed, violent 
silencing brought about by the apparatuses of political control. In addition to 
voicing an obliterated past, the adoption of a revised form of the historical genre 
also has, for Consolo, the ethical function of creating bridges across epochs 
separated in time and space. Treading in the path opened by the great Lombard 
moralist, Alessandro Manzoni — “nome fondamentale, sacramentale forse, della 
letteratura italiana moderna, del romanzo storico” (46) — Consolo describes his 
own narrative endeavor as the creation of palimpsests, namely, of metaphors 
where the past can become a critical, disruptive figure of the present.” The 
casting of revisionist and metaphoric historical fictions into a polyphonic style 
adds one more facet to the ethical dimension claimed by Consolo for his 
narrative discourse. Like other expressionist writers of the 20" century, 
including Gadda and Pasolini, Consolo’s novels reject the referential mode of 
writing that is typical of historical narrative and develop a highly hybrid 
language.” Such language, however, is neither to be equated with the avant- 
gardist rejection of tradition’ nor with an empty display of formalism’ but, on 


3-1 tedeschi venivano da un’esperienza tremenda, quella del nazismo e dei campi di 
sterminio, e in Germania era in atto una sorta di rimozione di quella grande colpa che li 
schiacciava, che non li faceva vivere” (Fuga dall'Etna 49). 

* “1a lezione del Manzoni é proprio la metafora. Ci siamo sempre chiesti perché abbia 
ambientato il suo romanzo nel Seicento e non nell’Ottocento. Oltre che per il rovello per 
la giustizia, proprio per dare distanza alla sua inarrestabile metafora. L’Italia del Manzoni 
sembra davvero eterna, inestinguibile” (Fuga dall Etna 47). 

* The most complete study available on Consolo’s plurilinguism is Ternullo’s Vincenzo 
Consolo. An outstanding treatment of the topic is also provided by Segre’s “La 
costruzione a chiocciola nel Sorriso dell 'ignoto marinaio” (Intrecci di voci 51-66). 
®t] una vera spinta oppositiva, la consapevolezza che gli azzeramenti avanguardistici, 
la loro impraticabilita linguistica, che si pud rovesciare nel conservatorismo pit bieco, 
sono speculari all’impraticabilita linguistica o all’afasia del potere. La nuova lingua 
italiana, tecnologico-aziendale-democristiana, era uguale a quella del Gruppo °63” (Fuga 
dall’ Etna 15). 

7 See also the following statement: “[...] il barocchismo di Consolo [...] [nJon ¢ fine a se 
stesso, non vi é@ il desiderio dell’orpello a tutti i costi, della proliferazione lessicale 
forzata, della iterazione sgregolata e dell’ornamento voluto e allettante. Ma vi € un’intima 
spinta [...] un’interiore necessita, una forza a venir fuori, a nascere, a moltiplicarsi, come 
una lirica reazione a catena che della parola riguarda il suono, il colore, il significante e il 
significato” Ternullo 34. 


122 Norma Bouchard 


the contrary, must be seen as an additional mode of remembrance. As Consolo is 
often fond of arguing, at a time when the media, in their attempt to secure an 
ever-increasing base of mass consensus have developed a standardized Italian — 
“una super-koiné, una sopra-lingua” (27) — the recovery of the disappearing 
languages and cultures of Italy becomes imperative. Hence, as in a museum of 
ethnographic memory, Consolo’s plurilinguism subverts the homogenizing 
effects of referential language by juxtaposing a variety of fictional and official 
texts written in the Italian literary idiom with fragments of Southern dialects in 
their Greek, Arabic, French, and Spanish ascendance. 

The overt absence of ethical “truths,” of totalizing norms and criteria for a 
just behavior suggested by the interview of Fuga dall’Etna, is certainly reflected 
in Consolo’s narrative practice in // sorriso dell’ignoto marinaio. Published in 
1976, // sorriso inscribes a story and a discourse profoundly traversed and 
irreducibly shaped by the debunking of the conceptual framework of modernity 
and the ethical thought it has produced. 

Briefly summarized,® the story of // sorriso dell’ignoto marinaio is set 
against the background of the “Risorgimento” in Sicily, from September 12, 
1852, to December 18, 1860. Its nine chapters and numerous appendices narrate 
how the stratified classes of the peninsula responded to the events leading to the 
unification of the peninsula. While Giovanni Interdonato represents the 
committed revolutionary, the man of action who has had first hand experience of 
the barricades of 1848, Galvano Maniforti is a symbol of the ancien régime, 
loyal to the Bourbons and clearly opposed to the liberal cause. Consolo situates 
Barone di Mandralisca between these two extremes. Although not opposed to 
the liberal cause, nor completely oblivious to the harsh Southern social reality, 
Mandralisca is initially only a detached observer of the historical process. In 
fact, he devotes most of his time to cultivating his intellectual and artistic 
pursuits. In the beginning of the novel, for example, as Mandralisca travels from 
Lipari to Cefali' with the portrait of the “Unknown Sailor” by Antonello da 
Messina (1430-?79), he fails to recognize, in a man who bears a striking 
resemblance to the portrait itself, the revolutionary Giovanni Interdonato. More 
significantly still, while the man comments on the “mal di pietra” affecting the 
miners of Lipari, Mandralisca distances Interdonato’s reminders of an unjust 
social reality by engaging in a private evocation of poetic images of nature. 
Later on, when Mandralisca meets Interdonato again, he reacts with great 
circumspection to the latter’s call for help in ousting the Bourbons during the 
revolt of Cefalt’ in 1856. Quite correctly, Cesare Segre has commented that 
Interdonato, although confined to the role of the deuteragonist, is, at this point of 
the narrative, “il vero cervello politico e l'uomo impegnato” (78). However, the 
events following Garibaldi’s landing in Marsala in 1860, bring about a series of 
important changes in Mandralisca’s involvement with history. The middle 


* For a detailed summary of this novel, see Farrell 64-70. 


Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 123 


chapters of Consolo’s novel relate how the Sicilian peasantry interprets 
Garibaldi’s landing as the occasion to avenge century-old wrongdoings by 
reacting with violent uprisings, such as that of Alcara Li Fusi. The 
condemnation of the rioters of Alcara and their subsequent imprisonment in a 
labyrinth built under the castle of Maniforti, shake Mandralisca’s conscience, 
spurning him to put an end to his quiescence. In a letter addressed to 
Interdonato, who is now “Procuratore Generale” in Messina, Mandralisca 
narrates his journey to Alcara after the massacre has taken place. In the chapter 
that follows the letter, Mandralisca recounts his visit to the prison and his 
discovery of the writings by twelve rioters. Transcribed as the ninth chapter of // 
sorriso, these writings provide a version of the uprising from the perspective of 
the revolutionaries themselves. However, the ethical conflict that results from 
the acquisition of the rioters’ version is not resolved. In a reversal of the 
conflict-resolution pattern of modern ethical thought,’ // sorriso closes without 
demanding a just polity nor offering norms and criteria for correct moral 
behavior. At the end of the novel the reader is simply left with three appendices. 
The first one is a polemical article by Luigi Scandurra that questions the 
decision of the court to free the surviving rioters. The second one is the death 
certificate of the bracciante and rioter Giuseppe Sirna. The third, and final one, 
is a proclama of the pro-dictator Mordini. Dated October 15, 1860, it exhorts 
Sicilians to become loyal subjects to the newly formed Italian State and 
announces the upcoming plebiscite. 

The disquieting effect produced by a story that dramatizes — without 
solving — ethical conflicts, is doubled in its narrative discourse. Despite its 
division into nine chapters and several appendices, // sorriso subverts any 
possibility of continuous and linear narration through a consistent juxtaposition 
of non-causal and autonomous episodes. Moreover, by way of a plurality of 
points of view and speech-styles, it brings about the dissolution of the coherent, 
self-identical subject of the enunciation that is typical of traditional historical 
fiction. As a result, reality is dissolved into a kaleidoscope of localized 
interpretations, suggesting that language, from its former status as a shared 
means of communication, has become a shifting space of regressive and 
unstable meaning, a vehicle finally unsuitable for the transmission of absolute 
“truths.” For example, in the first chapter an anonymous “Antefatto,” written in 
a telegraphic style, introduces the motive of the journey that will take 
Mandralisca from Tindari to Cefali on September 12, 1852. The narrative that 
follows, however, juxtaposes traditional passages in indirect and direct discourse 
with fragments of speech originating from the most varied texts. These include 
Sicilian poetry, art catalogs, mystical recitations, and prosaic songs cast in 


° Bauman writes: “Modernity is about conflict-resolution, and about admitting of no 
contradictions except conflicts amenable to, and awaiting resolution” (Postmodern Ethics 
8). 


124 Norma Bouchard 


Southern dialect. This chapter itself concludes with two appendices. The first 
one is a letter dated 1840 and is allegedly written by Mandralisca as a preface 
for a scientific catalog to be published by ‘“stamperia Oretea — Via 
dell’Albergaria num. 240.” The other one is a short note dated 1842. It also 
bears the name of Mandralisca. The fragmentation of enunciation suggested here 
is also at work in subsequent chapters, with the result that readers remain 
uneasily posed between voices coming from different sources and bearing 
different perspectives. Hence, to give just one more example, in the second 
chapter, what appears to have begun as a fairly stable description of the journey 
of Giovanni Interdonato to Cefalu, is abruptly interrupted by the inclusion of 
two appendices. The first one is a written text of a speech given by the historian 
Francesco Guardione on the occasion of the 1856 riots of Cefalu. As in the case 
of most writings of this sort, it is a relatively sober, scholarly account of 
historical events. The second one, however, is a highly idealized literary passage 
from none other than Abba, the “memorialista Garibaldino” and author of 
Noterelle d’ uno dei Mille. 

Considering both the open-ended, inconclusive story and the fragmentary 
and pluralized discourse of // sorriso, are we to assume that Consolo’s novel 
finally comes to rest within a negative theology similar to the one that has 
moored some of the more radical schools of hermeneutics? Are we to assume 
that, in an era that has lost modernity’s faith in totalizing and universal “truths,” 
any claim to responsibility and justice have become logical impossibilities? In 
short, can a novel that is traversed by a postmodern textuality, such as that 
articulated by // sorriso, still express an ethical call? While some thinkers would 
argue that such calls are no longer legitimate and that we should learn to rejoice 
in our belonging to a post-deontic era,'° others have more cautiously sought to 
negotiate a balance between the de-legitimization of the grand-narratives of 
modernity and the danger of an unbounded postmodernist relativism. Among 
this latter group of thinkers, Emmanuel Lévinas has been widely acknowledged 
as a fundamental point of reference to overcome the predicament--some would 
call it the paralysis--between postmodernist skepticism and the resilience of an 
ethical imperative. According to Zygmunt Bauman’s Morality and_ the 
Holocaust, since Levinas’s moral philosophy maintains a humanistic 
commitment to responsibility and justice despite its emergence out of a post- 
rationalist episteme, it can unveil “an ethical demand in the postmodern” (qted 
in Eaglestone, Ethical Criticism 5). Since such demand is relevant to my 
discussion of // sorriso, it is to Lévinas’s work that I will now turn. 

Among the many bold moves made by Lévinas in his 1971 Totality and 
Infinity, is his claim that the ethical moment must be freed from the traditional 
ontological assumptions of modernity. These assumptions require that the 


'° | am referring to Lipovesky, Le Crépuscule du devoir. For additional discussion of 
Lipovesky’s work, see Bauman, Postmodern Ethics 2-3. 





Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 125 


ethical moment be derived from an a-priori, theoretical system of morality and 
judgement assumed to be universally valid and self-evident.'' Hence, in a 
reversal of the modern rationalist episteme, in the pages of Totality and Infinity 
ethics becomes a primordial experience or, in the words of Derrida, “an Ethics 
of Ethics” (Writing and Difference |11).'* Furthermore, this primordial ethical 
moment does not take place at the level of consciousness, but at the level of 
sensibility.’ Hence, it is no longer the product of a process of objectification, 
but depends upon a complete obligation to the Other in all its irreducible alterity. 
This alterity is what Lévinas calls the “face” of a being escaping the rational 
economy of sameness and identity and therefore irreducible to the logocentric 
order of Being: 


The way in which the other presents himself, exceeding the idea of the other in me, we 
here name face. This mode does not consist in figuring as a theme under my gaze, in 
spreading itself forth as a set of qualities forming an image. The face of the Other at each 
moment destroys and overflows the plastic image it leaves me, the idea existing to my 
own measure and to the measure of its ideatum — the adequate idea [...]. To approach the 
Other [...] is to welcome his expression, in which at each instant he overflows the idea a 
thought would carry away from it. It is therefore to receive from the Other beyond the 
capacity of the I, which means exactly: to have the idea of infinity [...]. The relation with 
the Other, or Conversation, is [...] an ethical relation. 

(Totality and Infinity 50-51) 


As this quotation suggests, the articulation of the ethical encounter as a 
primordial experience with the “face” of a mysterious, non-totalizable Other, 
represents an important development for traditional accounts of the constitution” 
of the knowing subject, such as those provided by the noetic-noematic structure 
of transcendental phenomenology. By describing the ethical moment as an 
encounter preceding any rational understanding, Lévinas no longer allows for a 
synthesis of phenomena by a subjectivity constituted a-priori, that is to say, for 
the representational ability of an intentionality. More specifically, by positing 
the other as absolute alterity, as radical and irreducible otherness, Lévinas 
effectively questions the constitution of the knowing subject and of the ego in 
acts of objectification, in moments of totalizing representation that are taken to 
be essential to the activity of consciousness. In Levinas’s words: 


A calling into question of the same [...] is brought about by the other. We name this 


'' Por additional discussion of Lévinas’s reversal of the privilege of ontology for a pre- 
rational ethical obligation, see Ciaramelli. 
'2 For additional discussion of ethics as a primordial experience, see especially Lévinas, 


“Ethics as First Philosophy.” 
'3 For additional discussion of Lévinas’s concept of “sensibility,” see Otherwise than 
Being 14-15, 61-72, and Totality and Infinity 187-93. 


126 Norma Bouchard 


calling into question of my spontaneity by the presence of the Other, ethics. The 
strangeness of the Other, his irreducibility to the I, to my thoughts and my possessions, is 
precisely accomplished as a calling into question of my spontaneity, as ethics. 
Metaphysics, transcendence, the welcoming of the other by the same, of the Other by me, 
is concretely produced as the calling into question of the same by the other, that is, as the 
ethics that accomplishes the critical essence of knowledge. 

(Totality and Infinity 43) 


In his second major work, Otherwise than Being of Beyond Essence, 
Lévinas further develops his meditation on the subject not as a state a priori, but 
as an entity created as a result of subjection to the Other — a subjectivity-as- 
subjection — completely hostage to the Other’s commands and demands, needs 
and wants. And precisely because, as Alphonso Lingis has acutely commented, 
“[...] to acknowledge the imperative force of another is to put oneself in his 
place, not in order to appropriate one’s own objectivity, but in order to answer to 
his need, to supply for his want with one’s own substance” (“Translator’s 
Introduction” xxviii), the ethical exposure to the alterity of the Other is a 
responsibility that requires a complete process of substitution. Nonetheless, 
substitution does remain fundamental to the self. It is only by putting oneself in 
the place of another one, by assuming a total responsibility for the Other, that 
subjectivity can be constituted and inscribed into space. 

In addition to further refining the notions of self and Other, in Otherwise 
than Being or Beyond Essence Lévinas also departs from the ontological 
terminology that he had employed in Totality and Infinity to describe the ethical 
encounter with the “face.” As a result of both self-critique'* and following 
Derrida’s essay “Violence and Metaphysics” (Writing and Difference 79-| 55) ae 
Lévinas submits his previous philosophical speech to a deconstructive turn. The 
result of this operation is “amphibiology,” a language described by Lévinas as 
the product of the braiding of the “saying” with the “said” and that, for clarity’s 
sake, can be usefully reformulated in terms of Derrida’s articulation of the 
interweaving of writing and speech.'® Like Derrida’s logocentric speech, the 
“said” is the language of metaphysics. Its aim is that of making present, of re- 
presenting, of turning diachrony into synchrony. Hence, the “said” designates 


'* Compare the following statement by Lévinas: “7otality and Infinity was my first book. 
I find it very difficult to tell you, in a few words, in what way it is different from what 
I’ve said afterwards. There is the ontological terminology. I spoke of being. I have since 
tried to get away from that language” (The Provocation of Lévinas 171), qted. in 
Critchley 51. 

'S For an excellent reading of “Violence and Metaphysics,” see Eaglestone’s “*Questions 
of Language and the Question of Language’: Derrida on Lévinas and ‘True 
Representation’ 130-36. 

'© See especially the chapter “The End of the Book and the Beginning of Writing,” from 
Derrida’s Of Grammatology 6-18. 


Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 127 


and thematizes, assigns identity and establishes essence, states and asserts: 
“Language qua said can then be conceived as a system of nouns identifying 
entities, and then as a system of signs doubling up the beings, designating 
substances, events and relations by substantives or other parts of speech derived 
from substantives, designating identities--in sum, designating” (Otherwise than 
Being 40). By contrast, the “saying,” for which, in Otherwise than Being, 
Lévinas can obviously not give a definition without the danger of falling into the 
realm of the “said,”'’ is the space where the ethical moment comes to signify. 
As such, it is the site where the identity of the one breaks down when summoned 
by the “face” of the Other. It is also the site of substitution and infinite 
responsibility for the Other, of infinite subjection and proximity. 

It could be argued that, since any appearance of the “saying” would result in 
its betrayal, or better yet, in a thematized, re-presented Being belonging to the 
order of the “said,” the ethical moment is fated to remain outside representation, 
forever confined to silence and oblivion by the totalizing system with which it is 
interwoven.'* Yet, Lévinas indicates that this is not the case. Through an often- 
employed metaphor of a thread whose continuity is interrupted by knots,'” he 
repeatedly suggests that ‘“‘amphibiology” implies two orders of meaning. These 
orders are the order of the “saying,” which becomes readable as the non- 
thematizable, as the ethical supplement that prevents the order of the “said” to 
achieve the totalizing closure of ontological language: 


The correlation of the saying and the said, that is, the subordination of the saying to the 
said, to the linguistic system and to ontology, is the price that manifestation demands. In 
language qua said everything is conveyed before us, be it at the price of a betrayal [...]. 
Language permits us to utter, be it by betrayal, this outside of being, this ex-ception to 
being, as though being’s other were an event of being. (Otherwise than Being 6)°° 


'7 Eaglestone proposes the following description of the “saying”: “1. the break-up of 
identity and the approach to the other. 2. substitution, passivity beyond passivity, the state 
of being a hostage, exposure, proximity. 3. the relation to the other and the responsibility 
imposed by the other” 143. For further discussion, compare also Peperzak. 

'§ Compare for example: “The saying appears only as a betrayal of itself, a ‘saying 
teleologically turned to the kerygma of the said’ [...]. The saying is transformed into 
doxa, to such an extent that it is forgotten [...] in the said. It is impossible to say the 
saying because at the moment of saying it becomes the said, betrayed by the concrete 
language which is the language of ontology. The saying, which is unthematisable, 
impossible to delimit, becomes limited, thematised, said” Eaglestone 147. 

'° Lévinas, Otherwise than Being 25, 105, 165-71. 

*° Compare also the following: “ontological thematization is the necessary condition for 
any consideration of the non-thematizable. One can see nothing without thematization, 
and all talks of an ethic without ontology is blind. Once again, the relation of the Saying 
to the Said is not one of absolute independence, but rather the interdependence of 
irreconciliable orders of discourse,” Critchley, The Ethics of Deconstruction (169). 


128 Norma Bouchard 


Because of the emphasis placed by Lévinas on the discursive structures that 
are constitutive of the “amphibiology” of language, it becomes clear, at this 
point, how his mediation between a humanist concern with the ethical 
imperative and a post-rationalist episteme extends far beyond the field of 
philosophical inquiry to encompass the practice of listening, i.e., the activity of 
reading and of criticism. In other words, Lévinas’s non-ontological ethical 
philosophy provides a model for conceptualizing the ethos of those 
contemporary narratives that do not voice the prescriptive norms of rationality 
typical of the ethical discourse of modernity. In pragmatic terms, this ethical 
philosophy equates with a labor of reading no longer confined to a description of 
the logocentric truth of the “said,” but also answers the summons of the text by 
articulating those ethical moments of interruption belonging to the order of 
“saying.” In this context, the narrative model proposed by Adam Zachary 
Newton in his recent Narrative Ethics is most important.*' From the premise that 
“narrative prose fiction (particularly in texts leading up to and away from 
modernism)” (25) implies a relational system based upon the uniqueness of the 
ethical situation, Newton proposes a Lévinas-inspired triadic model based upon 
“an interactive rather than a legislative order” (13). This model comprises a 
narrational, a representational, and a hermeneutic ethics. “Narrational ethics” 
articulates for Newton a moment of “saying” by activating “the dialogic system 
of exchanges at work among tellers, listeners, and witnesses, and the 
intersubjective responsibilities and claims which follow from acts of storytelling 
(18). “Representational ethics” is associated by Newton to the otherness of 
Lévinas’s “face” and therefore is concerned with the problematic issue of 
recognition, with “an anagnorisis that extends beyond the dynamics of plot to 
the exigent and collaborative unfolding of character, the sea change wrought 
when selves become either narrating or narrated [...]” (25). The last category, 
“hermeneutic ethics,” encompasses both “narrational” and “representational” 
ethics. Since, as Newton claims, “textual interpretation comprises both private 
responsibilities incurred in each singular act of reading and_ public 
responsibilities that follow from discussing and teaching works of fiction” (19), 
“hermeneutic ethics” accounts for both the readers’ interpretation of the text and 
for the social performative of the narrative act. In short, “hermeneutic ethics” 
refers to the displacement of narrated, fictionalized ethics, from the self- 
enclosed space of the aesthetic to that of social reality. 

Turning back to Consolo’s novel from the framework provided by 
Lévinas’s “amphibiology” and Newton’s triadic narratological model, it now 
becomes possible to describe the polyphonic and inconclusive narrative 


*! For additional treatments of the impact of Lévinas’s thought for the theory and practice 
of reading, see also Eaglestone, Ethical Criticism, particularly the section “Conclusion 
Interpretation Continual Interruption” (175-79), Critchley’s “C/6tural Reading II: Wholly 
Otherwise: Lévinas’s Reading of Derrida” 145-87. 


Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 129 


discourse of // sorriso not simply as one more symptom of an epistemological 
malaise, but as an example of how an ethical moment of signification can be 
expressed after the de-legitimizing effects of post-modernity. 

As I have previously indicated, although the nine chapters of // sorriso 
extend from September 12, 1852, to December 18, 1860, neither the treatment of 
temporality, nor that of voice, provide the reader with a stable, linear 
representation. While chronological frameworks are violated by conspicuous 
anachronies, major events are narrated through different perspectives and points 
of view. Yet, it is precisely in the interruptions of a continuous flow of narration 
and in the dialogic patterns of representation that readers can locate an ethical 
moment of “saying.” To tell it in Newton’s terms, it is in the violation of 
classical form that “the intersubjective responsibilities and claims which follow 
from acts of storytelling” (18) can be disclosed. 

From my previous summary, we might recall how, in the first chapter of // 
sorriso, a conspicuous set of anachronies is produced by an analeptic shift from 
the fall of 1852 to the appendices dated 1840 and 1842 respectively. By way of a 
third-person narrative the reader learns that on September 12, 1852 Mandralisca 
travels by boat from Tindari to Cefalu with the portrait of Antonello da Messina. 
In the course of the journey, he not only fails to recognize in the face of an 
anonymous sailor the revolutionary Interdonato but, more significantly, remains 
unaffected by Interdonato’s explanation of the “mal di pietra” affecting the 
Southern miners. Then, on October 27, 1852, the reader meets Mandralisca 
again. This time, the Baron is unveiling his latest piece of art to his circle of 
nobility. As exquisite food is being served, a mob of peasants assembles in front 
of the palace to beg for some remains. Except for the baroness, who eventually 
orders her servant Rosalia to bring a plate of food to the beggars, neither the 
host, nor his guests seem troubled by the occurrence. In fact, the evening 
proceeds with the unveiling of the portrait by Messina before closing abruptly 
with two appendices. Written by Mandralisca himself on the subject of Sicilian 
malacology, these disorienting segments are much more than casual inclusions. 
They reflect back onto the narrative that precedes them, while summoning us 
readers, to become witness to the futility of pursuing a knowledge that has 
become completely autonomous from the historical process. In more Lévinasian 
terms, by revealing Mandralisca’s aesthetic existence, the appendices place 
scholarly life on trial and therefore function as examples of a “saying” that 
disrupts, through the creation of a differential pattern of meaning, not only the 
“said” of the narrative that precedes it, but also the complacency of all 
intellectual pursuits and callings, including those of readers. In this context, 
Mandralisca’s ritual unveiling of his latest acquisition is quite significant, as the 
piercing eyes of the “Sailor” gaze upon all those who have abdicated social 
responsibility, regardless of their spatial location: 


Le piccole, nere pupille scrutavano dagli angoli degli occhi e le labbra appena si 


130 Norma Bouchard 


stendevano in un sorriso. Tutta l’espressione di quel volto era fissata, per sempre, 
nell’increspatura sottile, mobile, fuggevole dell’ironia, veio sublime d’aspro pudore con 
cui gli esseri intelligenti coprono la pieta. Al di qua del lieve sorriso, quel volto sarebbe 
caduto nella distensione pesante della serieta e della cupezza, sull’orlo dell’ astratta 
assenza per dolore, al di 1a, si sarebbe scomposto, deformato nella risata aperta, 
sarcastica, impietosa o nella meccanica liberatrice risata comune a tutti gli uomini. // 
personaggio fissava tutti negli occhi, in qualsiasi parte essi si trovavano, con i suoi occhi 
piccoli e puntuti, sorrideva a ognuno di loro, ironicamente, e ognuno si senti come a 
disagio. 

(20; emphasis added) 


Analogous creations of meaning through the fracturing of the “said” by the 
“saying” are also at work in the second chapter. A long narrative segment titled 
“L’albero delle quattro arance” describes the visit of Interdonato to Mandralisca. 
Dressed at first as a merchant, Interdonato has a conversation with two 
constables, Chinnici and Bajona. Then, he visits Mandralisca and pleads for his 
involvement in the uprising of Cefalu' of 1856. Despite a momentary awareness 
that the historical process is a succession of violent acts — “lotta per la 
pagnotta, guerra bestiale dove il forte prevale e il debole soccombe” (37) — 
Interdonato’s vision of the uprising is that of a peaceful advent of a more 
democratic society: “Ma gia é la vigilia del Grande Mutamento: tutti i cefali si 
disporranno sullo stesso piano e la pagnotta la dividerranno in parti uguali, senza 
ammazzamenti, senza sopraffazioni animalesche. E cefalo come Cefalu. vuol 
dire testa; e testa significa ragione, mente, uomo [...] Vuoi vedere che da questa 
terra? [...] (37). However, as in the case of the first chapter, this chapter also 
closes abruptly with the inclusion of an appendix from the 20" century. Written 
by the historian Francesco Guardione and dated November 25, 1907, the 
appendix functions as an ethical supplement to the speech of Interdonato. It 
provides an account of the failed uprising of Cefall in 1856 and, once again, 
summons reader to witness the pitfalls of the historical division between classes. 
Such division encompasses constables, like Bajona and Chinnici, who joined the 
repression and were instrumental in bringing about the arrest of patriots such as 
Spinuzza, Maggio, and the Botta Brothers. However, the division also extends to 
the class of intellectuals, like Interdonato himself, whose idealism prevented a 
realistic assessment of the motivations that drew peasants into revolutionary 
uprisings. The second and last appendix that closes the second chapter merits 
even further attention. As an excerpt from Abba’s Noterelle d’uno dei Mille, it 
provides a poetic, almost chivalric version of the Marsala landing of May 1860 
and of the arrival of the Garibaldini. In this sense, then, the appendix is close to 
the vision of the uprising of Cefalu as refracted through the voice of Interdonato. 
However, since the excerpt is introduced just before the third chapter, readers 
witness a striking contrast between the patriotic fervor that animates upper class 
intellectuals, like Abba himself, and a Southern reality of abuse and violence, 
madness and brutality. This reality concretizes in the third chapter, titled ‘“Morti 


Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 131 


Sacrata.” Here, amidst the description of a land scorched by drought and 
devastated by famine, a mad hermit who first murders and then rapes a young 
woman, announces an upcoming massacre: ‘“* — Triste presentimento d’amari 
accadimenti mi striscia nel cuore e nel cervello, — declama nel silenzio. — 
Sento odore di sangue ferro fuoco [...] Morte” (67). 

The relational ethics binding not only tellers, such as Interdonato and the 
peasants, but also listeners, including Mandralisca and us, as readers of // 
sorriso, becomes solidified, by the fourth chapter, in the self-discovery of 
Mandralisca. Nonetheless, Mandralisca’s coming to consciousness does not 
result in a return to a modern form of ethical thought and the universalizing 
system of a-priori evaluations upon which this thought is predicated. To reprise 
Newton’s Lévinas-inspired model, the narrative unfolds into a “representational 
ethics” and dramatizes how, in a time of weakened hermeneutics, the ethical 
relation can exist only as a pre-rational submission to the Other. As we shall see, 
this submission not only precedes all judgements and evaluations, but leads 
Mandralisca into a process of complete substitution for the Other. This process 
begins on May 15, 1860, when Mandralisca, on a journey to collect additional 
specimens for his scientific studies, travels to the town of Alcara Li Fusi and 
witnesses the aftermath of the massacre that has taken place during the riot. The 
riot itself, however, is not directly represented in the novel.” Although it is the 
most significant event of // sorriso, the narrative rapidly shifts from a third- 
person account of peasants getting ready to revolt, to the voice of Mandralisca. 
From being the object of a third-person narration, Mandralisca becomes, at this 
point of the novel, a subjectivity that inscribes itself into space by way of three 
first-person writings. These comprise a letter to Interdonato, a description of the 
scene of the massacre, and an account of the journey into the prison-labyrinth 
where twelve rioters have been held. Since such shift in discursive pattern is 
most significant to my assessment of the ethical significance of Consolo’s novel, 
Mandralisca’s writings deserve close attention. 

Mandralisca begins his letter to Interdonato by disclaiming all legislative 
ethical judgements. The object of his writing, he states, is neither a pleading to 
spare nor a justification to condemn the rioters. It is an account of events that he 
is producing on behalf of those who, being speakers of dialect only, have been 
denied a voice in the national language of official recorded memory: 


[...] questa memoria non suoni invito istigativo a far pendere 1 piatti della bilancia della 
Giustizia sacra da una parte o dall’altra, ma sia intesa quale mezzo conoscitivo 
indipendente, obiettivo e franco, di fatti commessi da taluni che hanno la disgrazia di non 


2 While the third and fifth chapters, dated May 13 and May 16 respectively, mention the 
landing in Marsala and even account for the peasants’ reaction to the news of Garibaldi’s 
arrival, the fourth chapter, dated May 15, 1860, is dedicated to the description of 
Mandralisca’s journey to secure specimens for his scientific studies. 


132 Norma Bouchard 


possedere (oltre a tutto il resto) il mezzo del narrare, a voce o con la penna, com’io che 
scrivo, 0 Voi, Interdonato, o gli accusatori 0 contro parte o giudici d’essi imputati 
abbiamo il privilegio. E cos’é stata la Storia sin qui, egregio amico? Una scrittura 
continua di privilegiati. 

(96) 


Then, Mandralisca begins a long meditation on the legitimacy of his words 
as a speaker representing the events of Alcara. He would like to narrate with the 
same immediacy as one of the participants of the riots would have done it: “E 
narrar li vorrei siccome narrati li averia un di quei rivoltosi protagonisti 
moschettati [...]” (96). However, as he is about to produce his account, he 
realizes that even if he were able to write in a most transparent, language — 
“siccome il dagherrotipo fissa di noi le sembianze” (97) — he would fail 
because of a lack of a common ground between his words and those of the 
rioters. This ground, which Mandralisca describes as “la chiave, il cifrario” (97), 
is a shared frame of reference. As such, it extends far beyond the commonality 
of a linguistic code to encompass the entirety of life’s experience, including the 
ethical sphere. This is a sphere that, being marked by the irreducible alterity of 
the Other, invalidates the assumptions of universally valid systems of values and 
criteria for moral behavior: 


[...] oltre la lingua, teniamo noi la chiave, il cifrario dell’essere, del sentire e risentire di 
tutta questa gente? Teniamo per sicuro il nostro codice, del nostro modo d’essere e di 
parlare ch’abbiamo eletto a imperio a tutti quanti [...]. E quindi noi diciamo Liberta, 
Egualita, Democrazia, riempiamo d’esse parole fogli, gazzette, libri, lapidi, pandette [...]. 
E gli altri, che mai hanno raggiunto i diritti pil sacri e elementari, la terra e il pane, la 
salute e amore, la pace, la gioja e l’istruzione, questi dico, e sono la piu parte, perché 
devono intender quelle parole a modo nostro? Ah, tempo verra in cui da_ soli 
conquisteranno quei valori, ed essi allora li chiameranno con parole nuove vere per loro 


[...] vere perché i nomi saranno intieramente riempiti dalle cose. 
(97-98) 


Nonetheless, the demise of modern ethical thought suggested by 
Mandralisca’s realization that universally valid systems of values do not exist, 
does not result in passivity. Since the ethical imperative persists under the 
treacherous surface of language and the ever contingent frames of our 
representations — “Perché, a guardar sotto, sotto la lumaca intendo, c’é la terra 
vera, materiale, eterna” (100) — Mandralisca accepts a condition of total 
responsibility for a group of people that eludes his rational understanding. In 
Lévinasian terms, he submits to a primordial ethical experience with the “face” 
of a mysterious, non-totalizable Other. Further, because this experience precedes 
all acts of objectification, including the formulation of judgements and 
evaluations, Mandralisca declares that he will confine his writing to a 
description of the outcome of the riot of Alcara: “Degli esiti soltanto m’era 


Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 133 


agevole parlare, e J/icito [...]” (103; emphasis added). Titled “Memoria” and 
structured like a Dantesque journey, this description carries the reader to the 
villages where the massacres have occurred. Amidst a landscape of putrefying 
bodies, Mandralisca recalls the imprisonment of the revolutionaries and the final 
speech of a colonel. The speech informs the population that those who have 
been arrested are nothing but monstrous traitors who have betrayed the 
unification of Italy and the sacred names of Garibaldi and Vittorio Emanuele for 
acts of personal revenge. Then, Mandralisca moves on to relate to Interdonato 
his visit to the prison. Built under the palace of the nobleman Maniforti, it is a 
labyrinth shaped as a snail-shell. Meandering through its passageways, 
Mandralisca discovers the writings of the prisoners.” Ephemeral signs, receding 
echoes, these writings exist only as traces of charcoal, as markings of dust. And 
it is at this juncture of the novel that Mandralisca completely effaces his own 
subjectivity to substitute for the Other. Hence, from his disembodied voice, 
twelve narratives emerge. Included as the ninth chapter of // sorriso, they tell 
story of hunger and grief, of violence and revenge, but also of social justice and 
fair distribution of land. By so doing, they counter, through an ethical moment 
of “saying,” the “said” version of the facts of Alcara Li Fusi recorded in official 
discourse. 

Consolo’s novel, however, does not close with the prisoners’ voices, but 
with three archival documents. Functioning as instances of the “said,” the 
documents put an abrupt end to the “representational ethics” of the ninth chapter 
by objectifying alterity to the order of Being and of the same. As we might 
recall, while the first document identifies the rioters as the guilty ones — “i 
ladri, gli assassini, gl’incendiarii” (139) — the second one is the death certificate 
of the rioter Sirna. As the clerk records the manner of his passing--"pena di 
fucilazione” (140)--he also informs the reader of having had to sign in for 
Sirna’s witnesses. Confined outside the symbolic order — “Avendo detto li 
testimoni dichiaranti di non saper scrivere” (140) — the witnesses are again the 
objects of the logocentric system of representation of the “said.” The third and 
last document is a “proclama.” Voiced by Mordini on October 15, 1860, it joins 
the process of objectification of the other previous texts. It announces the 
“plebiscito” of October 21, 1860 and exhorts Sicilians to become loyal subjects 
to the new Italian state: “Ad affrettare il compimento dei vostri destini, io scelsi, 
or son pochi di, una via che altri popoli d'Italia avevano percorsa [...]. E la scelsi 
perché aveva |’approvazione del Dittatore, perché guidava ad un patto solenne di 
conciliazione e di pace [...]. Qui si tratta di fare con la concordia la patria” (141). 
Collectively considered, then, these archival documents replay the historical 
destiny that awaited the Southern masses in the years of Risorgimento and its 


3 | would like to point out that the 1976 edition of the novel reports the twelfth writing in 
Southern dialect. Regrettably, the 1997 edition of the novel includes a translation into 
Italian, thereby reducing the effect of alterity of the text (// sorriso 158-59). 


134 Norma Bouchard 


aftermath. However, it is important to bear in mind that they remain embedded 
in a context where the alternative “truth” of an ethical “saying” has been 
allowed to resonate, where the voice of the Other has been, at least for a 
moment, saved from erasure. Hence, the novel’s open-ended epilogue ultimately 
forces us, as readers, to reflect upon the past and to question the legitimacy of 
our present collective life. Named by Lévinas the third party, or /e tiers,“ 
collective life is a space where the responsibility of one-for-the-Other is 
enlarged to encompass the plurality of beings of a community. And precisely 
because, for Lévinas, the community is the site where our social and political 
formations must be constantly put under scrutiny for an on-going democratic 
project,” Lévinas ultimately joins Consolo in locating in our storytelling the 
possibility for imagining a better future. In the words of Fuga dall’Etna, “E una 
lotta, quella della letteratura, contro il potere, che cerca sempre di cancellare la 
nostra memoria per non farci avere consapevolezza del presente e non farci 
immmaginare il futuro” (28). 

To be sure, this process of imagination will be an uneasy and uncanny one, 
since all calls to responsibility for the Other will ultimately erode and subvert 
our relation to “truth.” Nonetheless, as Eaglestone has commented in reference 
to Blanchot’s The Writing of the Disaster, it “is in these moments when our 
sense of our selves and our relation to the /ogos is interrupted and put into 
question that the ethics of literature are at their clearest” (175). 

In conclusion, Vincenzo Consolo’s // sorriso. dell’ignoto  marinaio 
expresses an ethical moment despite a time of weakened hermeneutics. 
However, this ethical moment is no longer the product of the conceptual 
framework of modernity and therefore can not rest upon a /ogos that would be 
revealed in the language of “truth” articulated by the fictional text. As Consolo 
suggests in the interview Fuga dall’Etna, the reciprocity between ethics and 
novelistic discourse depends upon a narrative and linguistic experimentation. 
When read from the framework of Lévinas’s post-rationalist discourse on ethics 
and Newton’s  Lévinas-inspired model of  narratology, Consolo’s 
experimentation constitutes an encounter binding tellers and listeners, including 
us, as readers and critics of narrative. Such an encounter ultimately foregrounds 
how the ethics of contemporary life and of postmodernist stories that give a 
meaning to it depend upon intersubjective relations of responsibility and 
obligation towards the alterity of all the others, and especially upon the 
willingness to fulfill our duties before demanding our rights. 


University of Connecticut, Storrs 


** See especially the section “Subjectivity and Infinity” in Lévinas’s Otherwise than 
Being (131-71). 

*> For a discussion of Lévinas’s tiers and the democratic project that it foregrounds, see 
Critchley, “Conclusion: Philosophy, Politics, and Democracy” (236-41). 


Consolo, Lévinas, and the Ethics of Postmodernist Storytelling 135 


Works Cited 


Bauman, Zygmunt. Postmodern Ethics. Oxford: Blackwell, 1993. 
. Morality and the Holocaust. Oxford: Blackwell, 1993. 

Benjamin, Walter. “The Storyteller: Reflections on the Works of Nikolai Leskov.” 
Illuminations. Ed. Hannah Arendt. New York: Schoken Books, 1968. 83-109. 

Bernasconi, Robert, and D. Wood, eds. The Provocation of Lévinas. London: Routledge, 
1988. 

Blanchot, Maurice. The Writing of the Disaster. Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1986. 

Burgaretta, Sebastiano. “Mito e ragione nell’opera di Vincenzo Consolo.” 
Otto/Novecento 17/1 (Jan-Feb 1993): 171-80. 

Ciaramelli, Fabio. “Lévinas’s Ethical Discourse: Between Individuation and 
Universality.” Ed. Bernasconi, Robert, and Simon Critchley. Re-Reading Lévinas. 
Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1991. 83-105. 

Consolo, Vincenzo. // sorriso dell'ignoto marinaio. Torino: Einaudi, 1976. 

. 1! sorriso dell'ignoto marinaio. Milano: Mondadori, 1997. 

. Lunaria. Torino: Einaudi, 1985. 

. Retablo. Palermo: Sellerio, 1987. 

. Fuga dall’Etna. Roma: Donzelli, 1993. 

. Lo spasimo di Palermo. Milano: Mondadori, 1998. 

. “Nota dell’autore, vent’anni dopo,” // sorriso dell'ignoto marinaio. 173-83. 

Critchley, Simon. The Ethics of Deconstruction: Derrida and Lévinas. West Lafayette: 
Purdue UP, 1992. 

De Donato, Gigliola. “II sorriso dell’ignoto marinaio.” Gli archivi del silenzio. La 
tradizione del romanzo storico italiano. Fasano: Schena, 1995. 121-36. 

Derrida, Jacques. Writing and Difference. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1978. 

. Of Grammatology. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1974. 

Di Legami, Flora. Vincenzo Consolo. La figura e l’opera. Marina di Patti: Pungitopo, 
1990. 

Eaglestone, Robert. Ethical Criticism: Reading After Lévinas. Edinburgh: Edinburgh UP, 
1997. 

Farrell, Joseph. “Vincenzo Consolo: Metaphors and False History.” The New Italian 
Novel. Ed. Baranski, Zygmunt, and Lino Pertile. Edinburgh: Edinburgh UP, 1993. 
59-74. 

Lévinas, Emmanuel. Totality and Infinity. An Essay on Exteriority. Pittsburgh: Duquesne 
UP, 1969. 

. Otherwise than Being of Beyond Essence. Pittsburgh: Duquesne UP, 1998. 
. “Ethics as First Philosophy.” The Lévinas Reader. Ed. Sean Hand. Oxford: 
Blackwell, 1989. 

Lingis, Alphonso. “Translator’s Introduction.” Emmanuel Lévinas. Otherwise than Being 
or Beyond Essence. Pittsburgh: Duquesne UP, 1998. xvii-xlv. 

Lipovesky, Gilles. Le Crépuscule du devoir. Paris: Gallimard, 1996. 

Newton, Adam Zachary. Narrative Ethics. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1995. 

Parazzoli, Ferruccio. “L’isola perduta di Vincenzino.” // gioco del mondo. Milano: San 





136 Norma Bouchard 


Paolo, 1998. 23-33. 
Peperzak, Adriaan. “Presentation.” Ed. Bernasconi, Robert, and Simon Critchley. To the 


Other. An Introduction to the Philosophy of Emmanuel Lévinas. West Lafayette. 


Purdue UP, 1993. 51-66. 
Segre, Cesare. /ntrecci di voci. La polifonia nella letteratura del novecento. Torino: 


Einaudi, 1991. 
Ternullo, Concetto. Vincenzo Consolo, dalla Ferita allo Spasimo. Catania: Prova 


d’autore, 1998. 


Steven Shankman 





Ethics, Transcendence, and the Other: 
Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 


What do we mean when we say “the Other’? In contemporary critical theory, 
and particularly in postcolonial theory, “the Other” generally refers to the person 
who has been marginalized by the dominant power structure: the woman, the 
person of color, the disadvantaged and powerless. The word has a negative 
valence. Let us call this alterity 2. Alterity, in this sense, is even at times 
transformed into a verb: to “other” someone is to turn that person into a thing, an 
object, to dehumanize her or him. In this essay, | wish to recover a different 
meaning of the word Other, one that is indebted to the philosophical work of 
Martin Buber and particularly Emmanuel Lévinas. In this tradition, the term 
otherness — alterity — has a positive valence. Let us call it a/terity 1. To speak 
in the language of the phenomenological tradition, alterity in this sense is that 
which precisely evades conceptualization, it is the otherness of the other subject 
that conceptualization would of itself automatically violate, since 
conceptualization entails knowing and hence the assimilation of alterity by the 
ego that seeks to know. Otherness, in this Lévinasian sense, is an occasion for 
the transcending of the ego. It is the face of the Other that occasions this 
transcendence of the ego and that demands my responsibility. 

At first glance, it would appear that the topic of ethics in Milione of Marco 
Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili is an unpromising one. Alterity, for Marco 
Polo, is experienced largely as a quest for the objectively different. And there is 
barely a trace of personality, or of an active subjectivity, in Marco Polo himself. 
He is hardly a subject in the sense of someone whose deepest convictions are 
open to question, although he is certainly curious about cultural difference, in a 
rather detached manner. But this curiosity almost never appears to threaten the 
stable center of Polo’s consciousness. We almost never sense that his deepest 
convictions are shaken by the vast differences between the assumptions and 
practices of his own medieval-European-Christian culture and the attitudes of 
the inhabitants of the Asian continent that he observes and catalogues. As John 
Larner has recently shown in Marco Polo and the Discovery of the World, the 
book Milione is best understood as a serious and remarkably learned and novel 
work of positivist geography. There are moments in Marco Polo’s text, however, 
that gesture towards transcendence in the ethical, Lévinasian sense, moments 
that reveal the possibility of the beginning of a dialogue with the Other. It is this 
very possibility of dialogue, and hence of sensing the trace of the transcendent 


Annali d’Italianistica 19 (2001) 


138 Steven Shankman 


otherness of the other person or other subject, that haunts the text of Calvino’s 
novel, which focuses on the relationship between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan 
that is derived from Milione. That breakthrough is constantly frustrated in 
Calvino’s text, however; and while it never in fact occurs, the author does offer 
some suggestions as to why that dialogue is perpetually aborted. The reasons for 
that abortion stem directly from Calvino’s critique of the quest for alterity, or 
otherness, in the sense of an objectively quantifiable difference from the self: the 
precise sense | have labeled, above, as alterity 2, but which is, in truth, not 
alterity at all. 

Throughout most of Milione, Marco presents himself as a Christian and 
appears to accept the truth of the Christian religion in a conventional, unprobing 
manner. This is certainly no great spiritualist text. The truth of Christianity 
generally resides, for Marco Polo, in its bare and positivist truth or falsity. At the 
beginning of the book, Marco tells of his father’s first visit to the Great Khan’s 
kingdom. It turns out that the Khan is not hostile towards the Christian faith. 
Indeed, he demonstrates curiosity about it. But the curiosity has to do mostly 
with the truth or falsity of the Christian religion, rather than with its ethical or 
experiential dimension. If Christianity happens in fact to be true, the Khan wants 
to hedge his bets and get on board. He thus orders Marco’s father and uncle to 
carry a letter to the Pope, as Marco (via his storyteller, Rusticiano, or 
Rustichello) relates: 


He begged that the Pope would send as many as an hundred persons of our Christian 
faith; intelligent men, acquainted with the Seven Arts, well qualified to enter into 
controversy, and able to prove by force of argument to idolators and other kinds of folk 
[a les ydules et a les autres”], that the Law of Christ was best [“la loi cristiene est 
meior’], and that all other religions were false and naught; and that if they would prove 
this, he and all under him would become Christians and the Church’s liegemen. Finally 
he charged his Envoys to bring back to him some Oil of the Lamp which burns on the 
Sepulchre of our Lord at Jerusalem. 

(Travels |. 13-14; Milione VIII. 9-10)! 


' The text of Milione that I principally cite (by volume and page number) is the venerable 
English translation by Sir Henry Yule. I choose this version, in part, because it will be 
more readily understood by readers of this essay than the early fourteenth-century text 
written in Franco-Italian, which I sometimes cite (by section and line numbers) along 
with Yule’s English, and which “most scholars [...] take to be the earliest and closest to 
the original” (Larner 184). Yule is translating M. G. Pauthier’s Livre de Marco Polo 
citoyen de Venise, conseiller privé et commissaire impérial de Khoubilai-Khadn (Paris, 
1865); his version does not always correspond with the earlier Franco-Italian text. The 
textual history of Milione is complex and uncertain. Indeed, as Spence has noted (3), “we 
do not have the original manuscript, but only copies of a lost original, amended copies of 
those copies, and translations or abbreviations of copies. Nor do we even know with 
certainty the language of the ‘first’ version. Most probably it was in Venetian or 


Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 139 


Hence, for Kublai Khan — and for Marco, as well, who approvingly tells this 
story — Christianity is reduced to the truth or falsity of literal belief. Elsewhere 
in the text, as in the story of the miraculously moved stone that stood at the foot 
of the pillar of a Christian church in Samarkand (I. 183-87), the truth of 
Christianity is likewise sought through the examination of visible evidence. 
Ethics is beside the point. 

As another instance of the unshakability of Marco’s Christian beliefs, 
despite the extent of his travels, consider the place of Buddhists in his text, 
whom he consistently refers to as “Idolators” [‘tydules” Milione VIII. 8]. In 
Chapter CIV, Marco observes the great charity (‘il fait grant charité as povres 
gens” Milione CIV. 1) that the Emperor displays to the poor. Even when Marco 
has the opportunity of seeing, in Buddhist charity, an equivalence to this prime 
Christian virtue, his doctrinal certainties manage to block the way towards a 
transcendence of the ego. After praising the Khan for his almsgiving, he notes 
that the “Tartars, before they were converted to the religion of the Idolators, 
never practised almsgiving” (I. 445). Previously, the Mongols had interpreted 
the lowly fortunes of the destitute as evidence of God’s scorn for them, but “the 
sages of the Idolaters [...] told the Great Kaan that it was a good work to provide 
for the poor, and that his idols would be greatly pleased if he did so. And since 
then he has taken to do for the poor so much as you have heard” (I. 445-446). It 
is clear, according to the narrator in this passage, that even those who selflessly 
do good for others may still, nonetheless, be described as “idolators.” This 
statement indicates that Marco’s Christianity is, in effect, itself a version of 
“idolatry” in that sense that his is a religion that has cut loose from its central 
message of the necessity of self-sacrifice and of charity towards others. Marco, 
unwittingly and paradoxically, renders Christianity just one more form of 
idolatry when, as a professed Christian, he in effect turns his back on the Other 
by uncharitably labeling charitable Buddhists “idolators.” 

There is at least one moment in the text, however, when Marco leaves 
behind his religious provincialism. At the age of eighty-five, the Great Khan 


‘Lombard’ dialect, subsequently translated into Italianate French, and thence into Latin.” 
Even the meaning of the title of the book, Milione, by which it is known in Italian, is a 
matter of debate. Larner believes that, after Marco was released from the prison in Genoa 
in which he allegedly dictated his narrative to Rustichello (or Rusticiano), Marco’s 
family “had bought a palace called Milione. [...] Roberto Gallo argued that the name 
‘Milione’ is a corruption of ‘Vilione’ and that it was the palace of the Vilione family [...] 
which the Polos bought. Though not all that large, it was built around a courtyard and had 
a tower. Marco’s uncle, the elder Marco, and his descendants took the name *Milion’ as a 
surname; and in the course of time the word came to be applied to Marco himself as a 
nickname. Jacopo d’Acqui writes of him as ‘Marco who is called “Milono” [sic] which is 
how the Venetians says “riches of a thousand pounds.’” Eventually the word ‘Milion’ 
was used in some manuscripts as a title for the Book” (44). 


140 Steven Shankman 


must confront the rebellion of one of his liegemen, his uncle Nayan, who is 
(rather remarkably) fifty-five years his junior. Nayan was “a baptized Christian,” 
and of course the Khan is not. Since Marco’s belief in the truth of Christianity 
seems so unshakable, it is worth noting that his sympathies, in this contest, lie 
with the pagan Great Khan rather than with the Christian Nayan. Indeed, Marco 
sees the Khan, in this instance, as the great defender of Christianity. As a 
baptized Christian, Nayan had carried a great cross to battle with him, but was 
defeated nonetheless. After the battle, many non-Christians — “‘saracing, ydres 
et juif, et maintes autres jens que ne creoent en Dieu” (“Saracens and Idolaters 
and Jews, and many others that believed not in God” I. 343; LXXX) — taunted 
the Christians. Kublai Khan bade the Christians be of good heart, 


for if the Cross had rendered no help to Nayan, in that It had done right well; nor could 
that which was good, as It was, have done otherwise; for Nayan was a disloyal and 
traitorous Rebel against his Lord, and well deserved that which had befallen him. 
Wherefore the Cross of your God did well in that It gave him no help against the right. 
(se la crois dou vostre dieu ne a aidiés Naian, elle a fait grant raisonz; por ce que elle est 
bone ne devoit faire se bien non et droit. Naian estoite desliaus et traitres que venoit 
contre son seignors et por ce est grant droit de ce que li est avenu, et la crois dou vostre 
dieu fist bien, se elle ne |’aide contre droit.) 

(1. 344; LXXX. 8-9) 


The narrator here associates Christianity with justice. He suggests that the 
“pagan” Kublai Khan can be more just, and hence more truly Christian, than the 
baptized Nayan. 

Why is the Khan so interested in defending Christianity, and what does this 
have to do with the transcendence of the ego and with the move towards ethics? 
And what does all this have to do with alterity, and specifically with the 
difference between what I have called a/terity ] and alterity 2? Could it be that it 
is precisely Kublai Khan’s affection for Marco Polo, who is so culturally 
different from himself, that encourages him to want to see, in Marco’s Christian 
creed, why Marco himself (and the world he represents) so values this particular 
religion? Milione records the traces of the Khan’s affection for Marco Polo and 
of Marco’s admiration for the ethics of a “pagan” who, remarkably, can act 
more justly than a baptized Christian. 

As Jonathan Spence remarks, Calvino’s novel Le cittd invisibili takes as its 
starting point the relationship between Marco and the Khan (237). There is only 
a brief mention made in Milione of the affection the Khan feels for Marco. The 
book is mainly a catalogue of the wonders witnessed, in a generally sober 
manner, by Marco. The tone of sober observation is relieved , however, not only 
by Marco’s passionate admiration of the Khan, which I have just discussed. It is 
relieved, as well, by the narrator’s recording of the Khan’s affection for Marco. 
Early in the book, Kublai Khan had sent Marco out on a state visit: 


Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 141 


When Mark returned from his ambassage he presented himself before the Emperor, and 
after making his report of the business with which he was charged, and its successful 
accomplishment, he went on to give an account of the pleasant and intelligent manner of 
all the novelties and strange things that he had seen and heard insomuch that the Emperor 
and all such as heard his story were surprised, and said: “If this young man live, he will 
assuredly come to be a person of great worth and ability.” 

(Quant Marc fu retorné de sa mesajarie, el s’en vait devant le grant kan et li renunse toute 
le fait por coi il estoit alés — et l’avoit achevee moult bien — puis li dit toutes le novités et 
toutes le coses qu’il avoit veu[¢] en cele voie, si bien et sajemant que le grant kan, et cel¢ 
tuit que l’oient, en unt grant mervoie, et distrent entr’aus; se cest jeune vif por aajes il ne 
puet falir qu’il ne soit home de grant seng et de grant valor.) 


Thereafter Messer Marco abode in the Kaan’s employment some seventeen years, 
continually going and coming, hither and thither, on the missions that were entrusted to 
him by the Lord. [...] And, as he knew all the sovereign’s ways, like a sensible man he 
always took much pains to gather knowledge of anything that would be likely to interest 
him, and then on his return to Court he would relate everything in regular order, and thus 
the Emperor came to hold him in great love and favour. [...] So the Emperor became ever 
more partial to him, and treated him with the greater distinction, and kept him so close to 
his person that some of the Barons waxed very envious thereat. 
(Et le grant kan li plasoit tant l’afer de meser Marc que il le vo<lo>it grant bien et li fasoit 
si grant onor et le tenoit si pres de soi que les autres baron en avent grant enoie.) 

(1. 30-31; Milione XVII. 1-2; 7-8) 


Marco Polo has won the affection of the Great Khan, in large part, on the basis 
of his special ability to represent, to the Khan, the nature and extent of his 
empire. 

In Milione, then, Marco represents the empire to the Emperor, and he does 
so in skillful and no doubt flattering ways. In this sense, Marco’s tales hardly 
offer opportunities for the Khan to experience the transcendence of the ego that | 
am associating with ethics, in the Lévinasian sense. But for Calvino the 
relationship between Marco and the Khan more seriously flirts with the 
possibility of true dialogue; it hovers on the brink of the transcendence of the 
egos of the participants, but that transcendence never quite happens. Why? 

The problem, as Calvino analyzes it, lies in the nature of a language that 
remains within the bounds of representation rather than in its capacity to 
welcome the Other, to address the Other. As Lévinas writes in Totalité et infini 
(65), “La prétention de savoir et d’atteindre |’Autre, s’accomplit dans la relation 
avec autrui, laquelle se coule dans la relation du language dont l’essentiel est 
l’interpellation, le vocatif’ (“The claim to know and to reach the other is 
realized in the relationship with the Other that is cast in the relation of language, 
where the essential is the interpellation, the vocative” Totality and Infinity 69). 
Calvino is frequently concerned with critiquing the Western subject’s exclusive 
reliance upon the purely intentional consciousness, as embodied in his character 


142 Steven Shankman 


Palomar.” This mode of viewing reality in its purely objective mode — the 
privileged mode of consciousness since the Renaissance, culminating in 
Descartes — has a devastating effect on interpersonal relations, as the example of 
Calvino’s Palomar demonstrates. Influenced by © structuralism and 
poststructuralism (as well as poststructuralism’s eighteenth-century harbinger, 
Laurence Sterne), in Le citta invisibili Calvino engages in a skeptical critique of 
language as a bearer of ultimate truth. Calvino, as a reader of Derrida, has 
learned poststructuralism’s lessons well (Hume 12-13). But Calvino’s text may 
take us back, before and beyond Derrida, to Derrida’s teacher, Emmanuel 
Lévinas, for whom language in its discursive or representational mode is a 
“said” that — unless recalled to its “saying” — will in fact betray ethics, or what I 
have called the fitting response to a/terity /. For the meaning of language, for 
Lévinas, is precisely its ‘“‘interpellative” nature, its speaking in the vocative. 
Language, in this ethical, Lévinasian sense, is an invitation to the Other, the 
basis and the beginning of dialogue, of which there is the faintest trace in 
Milione, but whose traces are more visible in Calvino’s Le citta invisibili. 

In Calvino’s lyrical novel, which the author himself referred to as a “poema 
d’amore,” we thus do not find a true dialogue between Marco Polo and Kublai 
Khan, but what we do discover is the trace of the Other. Indeed, in the first 
section — which, as is the case with all these framing sections of the nine 
chapters of the book, is nameless, perhaps thus signifiying the very 
unrepresentability of the Other — of the first of the nine chapters of the book, 
Calvino alludes to the themes we have just been discussing: 


Non é detto che Kublai Kan creda a tutto quel che dice Marco Polo quando gli descrive 
le citta visitate nelle sue ambascerie, ma certo |'imperatore dei tartari continua ad 
ascoltare il giovane veneziano con pit curiosita e attenzione che ogni altro suo messo 0 
esploratore. Nella vita degli imperatori c’é un momento, che segue all’orgoglio per 
l'ampiezza sterminata dei territori che abbiamo conquistato, alla malinconia e al sollievo 
di sapere che presto rinunceremo a conoscerli e a comprenderli; un senso come di vuoto 
che ci prende una sera con |'odore degli elefanti dopo la pioggia e della cenere di 
sandalo che si raffredda nei bracieri; una vertigine che fa tremare I fiumi e le montagne 
istoriati sulla fulva groppa dei planisferi, arrotola uno sull’altro i dispacci che ci 
annunciano il franare degli ultimi eserciti nemici di sconfitta in sconfitta, e scrosta la 
ceralacca dei sigilli di re mai sentiti nominare che implorano la protezione delle nostre 
armate avanzanti in cambio di tributi annuali in metalli preziosi, pelli conciate e gusci di 


° For a skeptical perspective on the efficacy of dialogue similar to that found in Le citta 
invisibili (first published in 1972), see Palomar (published in 1983), * II fischio del 
merlo” (“The Blackbird’s Whistle”), Romanzi e racconti I1.891-96. Calvino’s questioning 
whether or not birds can hold conversations recalls Laurence Sterne’s famous passage on 
the starling in A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy (94-102), particularly the 
chapter entitled “THE PASSPORT/THE HOTEL DE PARIS” (94-97). 


Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 143 


testuggine: é il momento disperato in cui si scopre che quest'impero che ci era sembrato 
la somma di tutte le meraviglie é uno sfacelo senza fine né forma, che la sua corruzione é 
troppo incancrenita perché il nostro scettro possa mettervi riparo, che il trionfo sui 
sovrani avversari ci ha fatto eredi della loro lunga rovina. Solo nei resoconti di Marco 
Polo, Kublai Kan riusciva a discernere, attraverso le muraglie e le torri destinate a 
crollare, la filigrana d'un disegno cosi sottile da sfuggire al morso delle termiti. 
(Kublai Khan does not necessarily believe everything Marco Polo says when he describes 
the cities visited on his expeditions, but the emperor of the Tartars does continue 
listening to the young Venetian with greater attention and curiosity than he shows any 
other messenger or explorer of his. In the lives of emperors there is a moment which 
follows pride in the boundless extension of the territories we have conquered, and the 
melancholy and relief of knowing we shall soon give up any thought of knowing and 
understanding them. There is a sense of emptiness that comes over us at evening, with the 
odor of the elephants after the rain and the sandalwood ashes growing cold in the 
braziers, a dizziness that makes rivers and mountains tremble on the fallow curves of the 
planispheres where they are portrayed, and rolls up, one after the other, the despatches 
announcing to us the collapse of the last enemy troops, from defeat to defeat, and flakes 
the wax of the seals of obscure kings who beseech our armies’ protection, offering in 
exchange annual tributes of precious metals, tanned hides, and tortoise shell. It is the 
desperate moment when we discover that this empire, which had seemed to us the sum of 
all wonders, is an endless, formless ruin, that corruption’s gangrene has spread too far 
to be healed by our scepter, that the triumph over enemy sovereigns has made us the 
heirs of their long undoing. Only in Marco Polo’s accounts was Kublai Khan able to 
discern, through the walls and towers destined to crumble, the tracery of a pattern so 
subtle it could escape the termites’ gnawing.) 

(Romanzi e racconti Il. 36/1; Invisible Cities 5-6)° 


Here, at the very beginning of the work, we have a marvelous description of the 
spiritual emptiness (vwoto) that accompanies the recognition, by the imperial 
consciousness, of the specter of transcendence that continually eludes its endless 
and finally pointless intentionalist grasping. The intentional consciousness can 
apprehend only that which it represents, but this representation is not other. It is 
the very fact that the intentional consciousness grasps reality in the mode of 
representation that keeps the Khan’s consciousness bound within its imperial 
sameness. What haunts his consciousness in the evenings that follow daily 
conquest, “con l’odore degli elefanti dopo la pioggia” (“with the odor of the 
elephants after the rain”), is his unfulfilled longing for the truly other, or what 
Martin Buber refers to as the “between” (Zwischen) in which a “meeting” occurs 
between persons, thus turning — for the subject — an “it” into a “Thou.” At this 





> Calvino places in italics the sections of his novel that begin and conclude each chapter, 
and I shall honor his intentions by preserving the italics. It is precisely in these sections 
that the reader encounters the dialogues between Marco Polo and Kublai Khan. 


144 Steven Shankman 


twilight moment, a sense of emptiness (vwoto) and dizziness (una vertigine) sets 
in. The Khan recognizes that he grasps his vast empire only in the mode of its 
representation, i.€., as “i fiumi e le montagne” (“rivers and mountains’) that his 
“vertigine” makes tremble, “istoriati sulla fulva groppa dei planisferi’ (“on the 
fallow curves of the planispheres where they are portrayed’). The malincolia 
(melancholy) that the Khan feels is precisely the longing for the Other, in the 
sense in which it is understood by Buber and Lévinas. The Khan recognizes that, 
despite his extraordinary power and the vastness of his conquered territories, his 
own subjectivity is woefully incomplete. Only through openness, through a 
welcoming, in the mode of passivity, of the face of the Other can the 
consciousness be disrupted by transcendence. 

The activist, imperial conqueror is pleasantly reduced to a passive listener 
in the presence of his ambassador Marco Polo, the literal truth of whose accounts 
the Khan does not necessarily believe. What attracts the Khan to Marco is not the 
objective contents of his ambassador’s narrated representations of the vast 
reaches of the Khan’s empire, but rather what Lévinas calls “proximité.” As 
Alphonso Lingis explains in the introduction to his translation of Lévinas’s 
second great philosophical work (after Totalité et infini), Autrement qu’étre ou 
au-dela de l’essence, “proximity” is the closeness one feels in the presence of a 
neighbor, for whom one is infinitely responsible: “The other, my neighbor [/e 
prochain] concerns me, afflicts me with a closeness [proximité] closer than the 
closeness of entities” (Otherwise than Being xxv). In the words of Lévinas 
(Autrement qu’étre 178), “La proximité est fraternité avant l’essence et avant la 
mort; ayant un sens malgré I’étre et le néant, malgré le concept” (“Proximity is 
fraternity before essence and before death, having a meaning despite being and 
nothingness, despite concepts” Otherwise than Being 139). It is precisely this 
“proximity [...] closer than the closeness of entities” that the Khan senses in the 
trace (“la filigrana”) of the Other who is Marco Polo: ‘Solo nei resoconti di 
Marco Polo, Kublai Kan riusciva a discernere, attraverso le muraglie et le torri 
destinate a crollare, la filigrana d'un disegno cosi sottile da sfuggire al morso 
delle termiti’ (“Only in Marco Polo’s accounts was Kublai Khan able to discern, 
through the walls and towers destined to crumble, the tracery of a pattern so 
subtle it could escape the termites’ gnawing”). The permanence that the Khan 
seeks in the interminable expansion of his empire can, perhaps, only be 
approximated in his openness to a dialogue with the Other. Only this has the 
capacity ‘“‘sfuggire al morso delle termiti’ (“to escape the termites’ gnawing’’). 

It is thus perhaps not the content of what Marco Polo has to say, but rather 
his presence as a potential interlocutor, that the Khan finds so inspirational about 
him. Marco Polo becomes for the Emperor, in brief, the catalyst through which 
reality is, at least approximately, transformed from an “it” into a “Thou,” thus 
allowing for the possibility of a Buberian “meeting” to take place. In the 
dialogue that concludes the first chapter, it is Marco Polo who is able to 
represent the empire to the Emperor in a manner that, at least potentially, 


Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 145 


transcends the limitations of knowing in the phenomenal, Kantian sense. Kant 
had divided objects of knowledge into noumena and phenomena, an opposition 
that precludes our ability to know the noumena, or things-in-themselves 
(Critique of Pure Reason 266ff.). The Khan is a foreigner to his subjects. 
(Indeed, as a Mongol, he is literally a foreigner even to the Han Chinese, the 
dominant ethnic group of traditional China and the group from which emperors 
had traditionally been culled.) There is no chance of a “meeting” between the 
Emperor and his subjects, since the Khan’s “ambasciatori erano persiani 
armeni Ssiriani copti turcomani’’ (“ambassadors were Persians, Armenians, 
Syrians, Copts, Turkomans’’), and since “/’imperatore é colui che é straniero a 
ciascuno dei suoi sudditi’ (“the emperor is he who is a foreigner to each of his 
subjects”), “solo attraverso occhi e orecchi stranieri l’impero  poteva 
manifestare la sua esistenza a Kublai” (“only through foreign eyes and ears 
could the empire manifest its existence to Kublai” \\. 373; Invisible Cities 21). In 
a strictly Kantian sense, the pristinely noumenal quality of his empire is 
faithfully conveyed by these foreign ambassadors, who in “/ingue 
incomprensibili al Kan [...] riferivano notizie intese in lingue a loro 
incomprensibili (“languages incomprehensible to the Khan [...] relayed 
information incomprehensible to them” II. 373; Invisible Cities 21). 

While this method of communication is ontologically rigorous, it is finally 
inhuman. In Lévinasian terms, the language of the Khan’s foreign ambassadors 
is a language that consists of ‘“‘saids” that have been completely severed from 
any prelinguistic saying that would constitute an invitation to meeting and to 
dialogue: a language severed from ethics. Hence, in this incomprehensible 
language of the foreign ambassadors, the potential ““Thous” are lumped in with 
the “‘its” in a catalogue whose alleged objectivity occludes the cruelty it narrates: 
the ambassadors tell of “/e cifre introitate dal fisco imperiale, i nomi e i 
patronomici dei funzionari deposti e decapitati, le dimensioni dei canali 
d’irrigazione che i magri fiumi nutrivano in tempi di siccita” (“the revenues 
received by the imperial treasury, the first and last names of officials dismissed 
and decapitated, the dimensions of the canals that the rivers fed in times of 
drought” II. 373; Invisible Cities 21). In a Sternean (and Rabelasian) gesture, 
Calvino has Marco Polo, who at this moment in the narrative is ignorant of the 
languages of the people he has visited in the Khan’s empire, communicate with 
the Khan through gesture alone. The Khan finds these “segni” (“signs”) much 
more comprehensible than the ambassadors’ languages; but his dialogue with 
Marco, for the Khan, is still conducted in the language of ontology rather than 
ethics: namely, of signs and emblems rather than of persons. “// giorno in cui 
conoscero tutti gli enblemi” (“On the day when I shall know all the emblems”), 
the Khan asks Marco, “riusciro a possedere il mio impero, finalmente?” (“shall 
I be able to possess my empire, at last?”). On that day, Marco implies in his 
response, the Emperor will no longer be human: “quel giorno sarai tu stesso 
emblema tra gli emblemi” (“On that day you will be an emblem among 


146 Steven Shankman 


emblems” Il. 374; Invisible Cities 22-23). 

Eventually Marco Polo learns the languages that enable him to 
communicate his findings to the Emperor, and the merchant even becomes adept 
at speaking the Khan’s native Tartar tongue. But what continues to intrigue the 
Emperor is precisely the ways in which Marco Polo’s language is not restricted 
— just as the novel itself is not — to the purely descriptive, representational mode. 
For what made the words of Marco Polo, the Emperor’s ‘“‘inarticolato 
informatore” (“inarticulate informer’), particularly precious to the Khan was ‘“‘/o 
spazio che restava loro intorno, un vuoto non riempito di parole” (“the space 
that remained around it, a void not filled with words’ II. 386; Invisible Cities 
38). 

For Lévinas’s theory of the face and its relation to ethics, one of the most 
suggestive parts of Calvino’s novel is the second section, entitled “Le citta e i 
morti,” of Chapter Six. It is the epiphany of the human face that, for Lévinas, 
breaks the spell of presence and requires my ethical response. Most of Marco 
Polo’s descriptions of the cities he visits are all too visible. He speaks of 
patterns, dimensions, fantasies, but rarely of persons. !t is in the city of Adelma 
that the alterity of the human face almost breaks through the trance of presence 
and of fantasy — but not quite. Marco is unable to respond to the alterity of 
each unique face of the inhabitants of this city. The faces are reduced to 
phenomena that appear. They are not traces of an alterity that would disrupt 
presence. Each face that Marco sees, rather than being the occasion for 
transcendence into the ethical sphere, is rather an instance of a phenomenal 
reality that he readily assimilates (or wishes to assimilate), since each face he 
encounters reminds him of a face that he has already seen. For once in his novel, 
Calvino’s narrator in his travels confronts the reality of human suffering. Marco 
observes: 


Mi turbo la vista d’un malato di febbri rannicchiato per terra con una coperta sulla testa: 
mio padre pochi giorni prima di morire aveva gli occhi gialli e la barba ispida come lui 
tal quale. Girai lo sguardo; non osavo fissare pil nessuno in viso. 

(I was upset by the sight of a fever victim huddled on the ground, a blanket over his head: 
my father a few days before his death had yellow eyes and a growth of beard like this 


man. | turned my face aside; I no longer dared look anyone in the face.) 
(II. 438: /nvisible Cities 94) 


Marco Polo fears confronting alterity in the Lévinasian sense; he fears 
confronting a unique Other who demands his ethical response. If he continues to 
look at these faces, who at first uncannily resemble faces he has known, he 
worries that when “le somiglianze si dissolvano e appaino facce estranee, 
apportatrici d’angoscia” (“resemblances will dissolve, alien faces will appear, 
bearing anguish” II. 438; /nvisible Cities 94). Hence, Marco decides it is best for 
him not to look at all. He has reached a stage in his life, he comments, when “la 


Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 147 


mente si rifiuta d’accettare altre fisionomie, altre espressioni” (“the mind refuses 
to accept more faces, more expressions” II. 438; /nvisible Cities 95). Every new 
face simply recalls previous faces he has known, and these faces stare at him 
demanding a response that he finds burdensome. 

Calvino’s Marco Polo thus resists the epiphany of the face. The Emperor, 
who is in search of the essence of his empire, likewise resists transcendence in 
the ethical, Lévinasian sense. Although his attempted dialogue with Marco Polo 
contains the traces of a confrontation with the Other, that dialogue is constantly 
undermined by his search for essences that can be known, represented, and thus 
possessed. Towards the end of the novel, the Emperor suggests that, rather than 
have Marco Polo relate to him what he has seen of the Khan’s empire in his 
travels, he and Marco should play chess. Marco will then attempt to convey to 
the Khan the nature and essence of his empire by means of the pieces the two 
will move along the chessboard and the patterns thus created. By contemplating 
“questi paesaggi essenziali” (“these essential landscapes”), the Khan will thus 
be able to reflect “su/l’ordine invisibile che regge le citta, sulle regole cui 
risponde il loro sorgere e prender forma e prosperare” (“on the invisible order 
that sustains cities, on the rules that decreed how they rise, take shape and 
prosper’), and at times he thought he was “su/ punto di scoprire un sistema 
coerente e armonioso che sottostava alle infinite difformita e disarmonie” (“on 
the verge of discovering a coherent, harmonious system underlying the infinite 
deformities and discords”) of the actual empire (Il. 462; /nvisible Cities 122). 
He now even feels it unnecessary to send his ambassador Marco Polo out on any 
future missions, since the pattern set by the movement of the chess pieces can 
more efficiently reveal the essential. As the narrator observes, 


A forza di scorporare le sue conquiste per ridurle all’essenza, Kublai era arrivato 

all'operazione estrema: la conquista definitiva, di cui i multiformi tesori dell'impero non 

erano che involucri illusori, si riduceva a un tassello di legno piallato: il nulla... . 

(By disembodying his conquests to reduce them to the essential, Kublai had arrived at the 

extreme operation: the definitive conquest, of which the empire's multiform treasures 

were only illusory envelopes. It was reduced to a square of plane wood: nothingness. . . .) 
(II. 462; Invisible Cities 123) 


Almost as if he were reading Lévinas, Calvino here — by implication — is critical 
of what is occluded by the single-minded emphasis upon the search for 
representation and essence in the rigorous ontological sense. We must wait for 
the conclusion of the work before what is missing is revealed to be precisely 
ethics, which, in Lévinas’s view, must always precede ontology. The emphasis 
here is on how the single-minded search for essence creates a dangerously 
autonomous game in which the human is replaced by essentialized wooden 
figures being moved about in a chess match. Humans are here reduced to pawns 
in a game. As the Khan observes, he may have mastered the game of 


148 Steven Shankman 


representing and knowing essences, “ma adesso era il perché del gioco a 
sfuggirgl’’ (“but now it was the game’s purpose that eluded him” II. 462; 
Invisible Cities 123). What is “il perché del gioco,” “the game’s purpose’? 
Linguistic signs, in Derridean fashion, point only toward themselves, in an 
infinite regress of self-reflexiveness in Calvino’s text. The chess game, which 
the Khan hopes will reveal the essential, opens up only on the self that 
represents phenomena to itself and that perceives essences. More specifically, 
the chess game reveals the materiality of its own failed efforts at gesturing 
towards what is truly other, or what I have called alterity /. 

What do I mean by “the materiality of its own efforts at gesturing towards 
what is truly other’? Here we need to return to Lévinas’s notion of the 
difference between the “saying” (/e dire) and the “said” (/e dit). Language, for 
Lévinas, has the capacity to welcome the Other, but only in what he calls its 
“interpellative” or vocative mode, i.e., when language is addressed to the Other 
as an invitation to dialogue. The language of the “said” is, in distinction, 
impersonal and carries with it the danger of freezing the “saying” within an 
inhumanly autonomous discourse that has lost its moorings in the “saying.” The 
danger is that the “saids”’ may have so cut loose from the intersubjective 
encounter that all we are left with is an impersonal discourse that refers only to 
itself. Lévinas’s student, Jacques Derrida, is the relentless analyst of this kind of 
self-referential discourse that is revealed to have nothing human at its center. All 
semiotics, with its adherence to the irreducibility of the signififying aspect of 
language in the mode of representation, is subject to this kind of deconstructive, 
Derridean analysis. Lévinas, however, is interested in analyzing these “saids” in 
relation to a “saying” that is, as he terms it, prelinguistic, which is another way 
of stating that ethics must precede ontology.” 

In Le citta invisibili, Calvino, as did Sterne before him, points out the 
endlessly self-reflexive nature of the language of “‘saids,” even as this language 
gestures towards essences. As I have mentioned, the Khan believes that the 
chess game managed “scorporare le sue conquiste per ridurle all’essenza” (“to 
disembody his conquests in order to reduce them to the essential’). Marco Polo 
then immediately calls into question the ontological efficacy of these gestures 
towards essence by focusing on the irreducible materiality and particularity of 
the signs that the Khan had taken as representing and revealing the essential: 


“La tua scacchiera, sire, é un intarsio di due legni: ebano e acero. Il tassello sul quale si 
fissa il tuo sguardo illuminato fu tagliato in uno strato del tronco che crebbe in un anno 
di siccita: vedi come si dispongono le fibre? Qui si scorge un nodo appena accennato: 


* For an ethical reading of Calvino, see Lollini 270-83. For “Le Dire et le Dit” see 
Autrement qu'étre 6-9. Unlike the game of chess in Calvino’s novel, for Lévinas “Le dire 
précisément n’est pas un jeu” (“Saying is not a game” Autrement qu’étre 6; Otherwise 
than Being 5). 


Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 149 


una gemma tento di spuntare in un giorno di primavera precoce, ma la brina della notte 
l'obbligo a desistere. [...] Ecco un poro pitt grosso: forse & stato un nido d'una larva; 
non d'un tarlo perché appena nato avrebbe continuato a scavare, ma d'un bruco che 
rosicchio le foglie e fu la causa per cui |'albero fu scelto per essere abbattuto.... Questo 
margine fu inciso dall'ebanista con la sgorbia perché aderisse al quadrato vicino, pitt 
sporgente ...”’ 

“Your chessboard, sire, is inlaid with two woods: ebony and maple. The square on which 
your enlightened gaze is fixed was cut from the ring of a trunk that grew in a year of 
drought: you see how its fibers are arranged? here a barely hinted knot can be made out: 
a bud tried to burgeon on a premature spring day, but the night's frost forced it to desist. 
[...] Here is a thicker pore: perhaps it was a larvum’s nest; not a woodworm, because, 
once born, it would have begun to dig, but a caterpillar that gnawed the leaves and was 
the cause of the tree's being chosen for chopping down.... This edge was scored by the 


wood carver with his gouge so that it would adhere to the next square, more protruding 
5 


(Il. 469; /nvisible Cities 131) 


The Khan — in his imperial desire to know, to represent, and possess his vast 
empire — had dreamed of a realm of essences detached from the messy 
particularity of the living and of the human. Marco Polo is now disabusing him 
of this fantasy. He is doing so by fluently speaking to the Khan in the Emperor’s 
own Tartar language and by drawing the Emperor’s attention to the materiality 
of those signs that are supposed to represent abstract essences. 

I have been suggesting that Calvino, in Derridean and Sternean fashion, 
deconstructs a language that imagines it can articulate essences in an objective, 
impersonal manner. Such utterances are revealed to be always burdened by 
temporality, history, and materiality. But Calvino is not content with this 
deconstructive analysis. He is moving, | would suggest in conclusion, in a 
genuinely Lévinasian direction by suggesting that what is occluded in this 
search for essences is precisely ethics, or what Lévinas refers to as the 


> McLaughlin remarks on how this passage comments upon the very medium of language 
as a signifier (107): “Again there is an important echo in Polo’s words to describe the 
wood: ‘vedi come si dispongono le_fibre? Qui si scorge un nodo appena accennato (you 
see how its fibres are arranged? Here a barely hinted knot can be made out)’ [...]. The 
metaphor of wood confirms, if confirmation were needed, that again Calvino is also 
discussing here the medium of language. The words used recall the important passage in 
the 1963 letter to Mario Boselli about his own style [...]: ‘La pagina [...] € un spaccato di 
un legno, in cui si possono seguire come corrono le fibre, dove fanno nodo, dove si 
diparte un ramo” (“The written page [...] is like a cross-section of a piece of wood, in 
which one can follow the lines of the fibres, see where they form a knot, where a branch 
goes off’). As McLaughlin notes, in this chapter Calvino “develops the then fashionable 
metaphor of chess and its rules, used by structuralists, particularly Saussure, to describe 
the arbitrariness of the signifier in its relation to the signified.” On these issues see also 
Cannon. 


150 Steven Shankman 


transcendent otherness of the other person. In the final dialogue of the novel, 
Calvino names dialogue itself as the utopian place where a positive future can be 
born. As in Plato’s famous dialogue, The Republic, so in Calvino’s text (which 
is about the utopian city, as was Plato’s) it is clear that the city is a metaphor, or 
a sign, that describes the human soul. In this last section of the novel, the Khan 
brings out his atlas and asks Marco Polo about his view of the future, based on 
all the marvelous cities he has seen, so many of which he has described to the 
Emperor. He admits to the Khan that we perhaps never escape our own 
subjective prisons: “Chi comanda al racconto non é la voce: é l’orecchio” (“It is 
not the voice that demands the story: it is the ear” \\. 473; Invisible Cities 135). 
Even if we engage in dialogue and listen to our interlocutor, Marco suggests, we 
may hear only what we want to hear, and what we want to hear will shape the 
way our interlocutor speaks and even what he says, especially if he is a powerful 
emperor whom we, in his employ, might be tempted to flatter or at least please. 
Still, there is always the hope that we can escape from the prison of our purely 
subjective consciousness, for the possibilities of a positive future can be found 
in the pursuit of the invisible city that consists in 


il dialogo di due passanti che s’incontrano nel viavai [...] di segnali che uno manda e 
non sa che li raccoglie. Se ti dico che la citta cui tende il mio viaggio é discontinua nello 
spazio e nel tempo, ora pitt rada ora pit densa, tu non devi credere che si possa smettere 
di cercarla. 

(the dialogue of two passersby meeting in the crowd [...] of signals one sends out, not 
knowing who receives them. If I tell you that the city toward which my journey tends is 
discontinuous in space and time, now scattered, now more condensed, you must not 


believe the search for it can stop.) 
(Il. 497; Invisible Cities 164) 


This city can be an inferno, it is true, but if we listen to the Other and thus begin 
to engage in dialogue, the city need not be hellish: 


L'inferno dei viventi non é qualcosa che sara; se ce n’é uno, é quello che é gia qui, 
l'inferno che abitiamo tutti i giorni, che formiamo stando insieme. Due modi ci sono per 
non soffirne. Il primo riesce facile a molti: accettare |'inferno e diventarne parte fino al 
punto di non vederlo piu. Il secondo é rischioso ed esige attenzione e apprendimento 
continui: cercare e saper riconoscere chi e cosa, in mezzo all'inferno, non é inferno, e 
farlo durare, e dargli spazio. 
(The inferno of the living is not something that will be; if there is one, it is what is 
already here, the inferno where we live every day, that we form by being together. There 
are two ways to escape suffering it. The first is easy for many. accept the inferno and 
become such a part of it that you can no longer see it. The second is risky and demands 
constant vigilance and apprehension. seek and learn to recognize who and what, in the 
midst of the inferno, are not inferno, then make them endure, give them space.) 
(11.497-98: Invisible Cities 165) 


Milione of Marco Polo and Calvino’s Le citta invisibili 151 


Calvino is here clearly drawing on Sartre, who famously remarked, in his play 
Huis clos, “Venfer, c’est les Autres” (“Hell is other people” 62). For Sartre, the 
Other is a threat to the integrity of the self.° For Lévinas, however, the Other is 
that which calls me out of my self-enclosed world and for whose uniqueness | 
am uniquely responsible. In making a plea that the subject allow the Other 
“spazio,” Calvino is asking that we acknowledge the transcendent otherness of 
the other person and that we resist the imperial assimilation of the Other into our 
own consciousness. It is a risky business (‘‘é rischioso’’), but it is an opening 
towards a dialogue whose traces are visible in Calvino’s Le citta invisibili. 

What, then, is an invisible city? Is it a city of pure imagination, a city of 
which we always wish to hear once we have tired of the exotic city that we have 
just visited or that has just been described to us, and that has perhaps just lost its 
exotic charm? Is it a city of pure essences that have finally escaped from the 
burdens of matter and time? Or is it rather the trace (“la filigrana”’) of the 
eternal or the permanent to which we are open when we allow the Other to 
endure and give him space? Are the invisible city and ethics one and the same? 


University of Oregon, Eugene 


Works Cited 


Buber, Martin. / and Thou. Trans. Walter Kaufmann. New York: Simon & Schuster, 
1996. 
Calvino, Italo. Invisible Cities. Trans. William Weaver. San Diego: Harcourt Brace and 
Company, 1974 
. Romanzi e racconti. Vol. 2. Milano: Arnoldo Mondadori, 1992. 
Cannon, JoAnn. /talo Calvino: Writer and Critic. Ravenna: Longo, 1981. 
Hume, Kathryn. Calvino's Fictions: Cogito and Cosmos. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1992. 
Kant, Immanuel. /mmanuel Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason. Trans. Norman Kemp 
Smith. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1965. 
Larner, John. Marco Polo and the Discovery of the World. New Haven: Yale UP, 1999. 
Lévinas, Emmanuel. Autrement qu'étre ou au-dela de |’essence. Martinus Nijhoff: The 
Hague, 1974. 
. Otherwise than Being Or Beyond Essence. Trans. Alphonso Lingis. Pittsburgh: 





® See Markey, who notes this allusion to Sartre and for whom Calvino’s “agonizing over 
the suspect Other — in the Sartrean sense — is moderated in this novel” (i.e., Le citta 
invisibili). As | argue, so does Markey, that here in Calvino’s text “a human solidity is 
inferred.” It is inferred, for Markey, “despite (or rather because of) the Khan’s Sartrean 
description of life as the hell we make and share by living together” (108). See also 
Markey’s discussion of Calvino’s “suspect Other” in his first novel, // sentiero dei nidi di 
ragno (The Path to the Nest of Spiders) and elsewhere in his earlier fiction (40ff.). 


152 Steven Shankman 


Duquesne UP, 1998. 
. Totalité et infini: Essai sur lextériorité. Paris: Livre de poche, 1992. (Originally 
published in The Hague: Martinus Nijhoff, 1961.) 
Totality and Infinity: An Essay on Interiority. Trans. Alphonso Lingis. 
Pittsburgh: Duquesne UP, 1969. 
Lollini, Massimo. // vuoto della forma. Scrittura, testimonianza e verita. Genova: 
Marietti, 2001. 
McLaughlin, Martin. /talo Calvino. Edinburgh: Edinburgh UP, 1999. 
Markey, Constance. /talo Calvino: A Journey Toward Postmodernism. Gainesville: UP 
of Florida, 1999. 
Polo, Marco. Milione. Le Divisament dou morde. Ed. Gabriella Ronchi. Milano: Arnoldo 
Mondedori, 1982. 
. The Travels of Marco Polo. Trans. Henry Yule. Rev. Henri Cordier. 2 Volumes. 
London, 1903. New York: Dover, 1993. 
Sartre, Jean-Paul. Huis clos. Paris: Gallimard, 1947. 
Spence, Jonathan. The Chan's Great Continent: China in Western Minds. New York: W. 
W. Norton, 1998. 
Sterne, Laurence. A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy. Ed. Graham Petrie. 
London: Penguin, 1986. 


Angela M. Jeannet 





A Matter of Injustice: 
Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 


1. Introduction 
The debate on what relationship does or does not obtain and should or should 
not obtain, between writing and experience has been going on for centuries: an 
indication of how important the issue is for readers and writers alike. We are all 
faced with ethical questions in our everyday lives, and the written word is very 
much part of our existence.’ Italian authors throughout the centuries have 
consistently addressed the connection between creativity and pragmatic 
concerns, and have given large space in their writings to the issue of the 
individual’s relationship to society. The question whether literature has 
responsibilities has received a positive answer in their writing practice from the 
moment the Italian tongue became a written medium. As a matter of fact, the 
very question of what could be an “Italian language” has traditionally been 
couched in sociopolitical terms. 

Literature finds itself in an ambiguous position when it comes to theoretical 
discourses such as yesterday’s debates about commitment (or engagement, or 
impegno), or today’s reflections on ethics and postmodernism,’ because 


' Richard Kearney’s States of Mind is one of several recent collections of essays by 
contemporary thinkers, who approach such issues from a variety of viewpoints. As I put 
the finishing touches to this article, | read the announcement of a very timely publication, 
Massimo Lollini’s // vuoto della forma. Here the author traces the evolution of the 
concept of writing as witnessing and search for truth, through several moments in the 
Western, and largely Italian, tradition. Poets, dramatists, and fiction writers make the 
most incisive statements on this topic; for confirmation, I must refer the reader especially 
to two pages (218-19) of José Saramago’s Manuale di pittura e calligrafia, his first 
major, and exemplary, work of fiction. 

* By now, the terms “postmodern,” “postmodernity,” and “postmodernism” have a long 
and complex, even contradictory, history. Canonical texts include those written by Ihab 
Hassan, Linda Hutcheon, Andreas Huyssens, Fredric Jameson, E. Ann Kaplan, Jean- 
Francois Lyotard, and Andrew Ross. I would add to that customary list a few pages from 
Pertile’s introduction to The New Italian Novel, and from Biasin’s 1991 article (173-74), 
which underline the special connotations of “modernity” and “postmodernity” in the 
context of Italian culture and literature. Fundamental in Italian studies is the ground- 
breaking volume 9 of Annali d’Italianistica (1991) on the modern and postmodern, 
including Cervigni’s introductory essay. 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


154 Angela M. Jeannet 


literature uses language as its medium. Language is certainly not reserved for 
literary expression or even for written usage, therefore it is hopelessly emmeshed 
in what we indicate, perhaps vaguely, as “our experience.”” How can commitment 
be manifested in the writing practice, by the choice of themes and occasions, or 
the construction of characters, or even the very texture of writing? To analyze 
the ethical imperative from this perspective is not an easy task, but it continues 
to engage whoever is interested in what we call literature. It is precisely by 
taking my point of departure from the construction of a singular language that I 
can begin to explore the interweaving of the ethical dimension and the creative 
imagination in Antonio Tabucchi. It is not my intention to address what the 
man/citizen Tabucchi may say or write, as for instance in his La gastrite di 
Platone, or Gli Zingari e il Rinascimento, or what he asserts in his interviews as 
one of the most prominent intellectuals in today’s Italy, because those are in part 
public relations phenomena. Rather, I intend to examine what emerges from his 
fiction, particularly his most recent publications. 

The first choice a writer makes, especially an Italian writer, is the choice of 
language. Tabucchi has elaborated a version of standard Italian that is at the 
same time agile and cultivated, playful, colorful, and enlivened by an occasional 
roughness, or an intercalation borrowed from everyday speech. His language is 
anchored in the body, whose functions are essential to the development of the 
narrative. That is especially true for the digestive function, which was 
traditionally considered the least noble among those carried out by the various 
body systems. Its fields of action, including food and cooking, are ever present 
in Tabucchi’s fiction. Gian Paolo Biasin rightly asserts that, for instance, the 
descriptions of Portuguese dishes included in several novels produce a reality 
effect, turn the foods themselves into elements of the narrative, and ironically 
evoke the recipes in the sacred texts of the culinary tradition (“Altri cibi, altre 
istanze,” Le periferie). In Tabucchi’s latest novel, La testa perduta di 
Damasceno Monteiro, the entire first chapter focuses on elementary physical 
needs. As a matter of fact, Manolo the gypsy reaches a sense of harmony with 
the universe precisely when, in the early morning light, he meditatively abandons 
himself to the relief of a very familiar urge. It is important to note that foods, as 
well as those needs and actions that involve the body in all its materiality are 
given to us as words. Experience at its most basic level is translated into writing 
through the manipulation of a given linguistic system. For Tabucchi, one such 
system is the Italian language, and another is the Portuguese, which he once 
described as a concrete place, his “luogo di affetto e di riflessione” (Requiem 7), 
no doubt echoing Fernando Pessoa’s expression: “La mia patria é la lingua 
portoghese” (// libro dell'inquietudine 252). Tabucchi’s writing, as it is obvious 
even from the most superficial reading, is woven with elements taken from 
various languages in which human beings have translated their experience of the 
body. But the Tuscan expressions we find in Tabucchi’s texts of the 1970s, or 
the many Portuguese expressions he used later, are not exoticisms or distancing 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 155 


elements. On the contrary, they are the means by which Tabucchi anchors the 
written in the corporeal. They serve to remind us that his writing is connected to 
specific circumstances, places, and experiences. They make explicit the 
commitment to translate, indeed transfer, the immediate presence of the world 
into the chosen symbolic system, through the operations of the senses and the 
brain that seize and decode it. The commitment that storytelling makes, then, is 
to reveal, make accessible, and guarantee that presence. The alchemic gamble 
that has always been at the core of the game called writing, even at its most 
serious level, becomes an essential part of Tabucchi’s practice. 


2. The body 

Citing Tabucchi’s words in one of his critical studies on Fernando Pessoa (Un 
baule pieno di gente 88), Biasin adds: “Il cibo in Requiem ha la funzione di far 
risaltare ‘la naturalis salus dell’accettazione fenomenica del reale contrapposta 
al brivido metafisico dell’interrogazione sul reale stesso’” (Biasin, Le periferie 
140). The terminology Tabucchi uses in his essay is important because it refers 
to a contrapposition found in his own narrative, and also because it evokes a very 
specific current of thought. While in the 1980s Tabucchi had moved toward what 
Laura Lepschy defines “a more metaphysical view of life” (The New Italian 
Novel 203), his books of the 1990s revisit a universe in which materiality is 
foregrounded. The dominance of the phenomenological is made evident by the 
attention given to the corporeal changes, however minimal, in Tabucchi’s 
characters. The body’s daily life, its moments of euphoria, enjoyment, food 
intake, insomnia, sleepiness, sweating, and so on, provide the atmosphere, 
situations, images, and metaphors that are specific to his narrative. The texts 
always express a profound empathy with the ways the characters physically live 
the events; the writer’s imagination is compassionate and whimsical at the same 
time. One example of the complex bond connecting life experience and fantasy 
is an episode in Requiem (58-63), in which the narrator’s father, although dead at 
a mature age because of an illness that left a deep scar in his son’s memory, 
appears as a handsome youth in the son’s dream, freed of the anguish that still 
torments the narrator. Also in Requiem, remorse is compared to a most ordinary 
human affliction, a virus: “[...] penso che l’herpes sia un po’ come il rimorso, se 
ne sta addormentato dentro di noi e un bel giorno si sveglia e ci attacca, poi 
torna a dormire perché noi siamo riusciti ad ammansirlo, ma é sempre dentro di 
noi, non c’é niente da fare contro il rimorso” (79). 

It is to be expected that for any writer who privileges the world of 
phenomena the “scandal” of the body’s death — to borrow an expression dear to 
French Existentialists — would be a central concern; and indeed it constitutes a 
steady thematic undercurrent in most of Tabucchi’s fiction (Geerts). But death 
seldom comes quietly in his stories; rather, it is the consequence of various forms 
of violence, so that in the majority of cases the dead are still young. Most 
important, the violence represented by death, although at times “natural,” 


156 Angela M. Jeannet 


whether caused by a fatal illness or an accident, often has a political origin. 
However, in the heroic depictions of different Resistances, from the 1930s to the 
1950s, one always knows which characters caused death; whether good or bad, 
they are readily identifiable. Here, violent deaths are part of obscure agendas, 
and a means by which power is acquired and maintained by faceless 
executioners; responsibility for them is not claimed by any authority; in fact, they 
are meant to remain mysterious, as a pervasive form of intimidation and 
silencing. 

Death due to political violence, as a manifestation of the power one has over 
the other, is at the center of much Western writing since at least the eighteenth 
century. The volumes that illustrate the positions of thinkers and writers on 
torture, assassination, and the death penalty, those practices familiar to all more 
or less “legitimate” political forces, fill the shelves of our libraries. The critique 
of political and state violence in our culture proceeds from two main sources. On 
the one hand, there are the voices of those who represent secular attitudes 
inspired by, and descended from, the Enlightenment; on the other hand, there are 
the voices speaking from the perspective of ethical principles based on religious 
faiths. Twentieth-century thinkers, who have mostly turned their sights toward 
the phenomenological, have expressed themselves in different ways, depending 
on their interpretations of modernity, existentialism, and postmodernism.’ 
Tabucchi’s fiction, deeply rooted in its cultural soil in this respect as well as in 
others, is a meditation on death, including death inflicted by the violence that is 
exerted “in nome di fraintesa giustizia” (L ’angelo nero 73). 


3. Guilt, trials, and confessions 

We know that literature is nourished by literature. For Tabucchi’s generation, 
those European authors, especially French, who published between the 1920s 
and the 1950s had a determinant impact. They placed at the center of their 
narratives a question that used to be called with some pomposity “the human 
condition.” Their characters spoke in striking ways of their sense of 
disconnectedness and, paradoxically, their feeling of responsibility, that followed 
the discovery of human freedom. They made no concessions to old rhetorical 
patterns, favoring a style that was spare, direct, and usually paratactical. Also, 
writers like Kafka, Sartre, and Camus privileged an image that kept occurring 
obsessively in their writing, in order to represent the conflict that took place 
inside the human conscience, the discomfort of choices to be made, and the need 
for an arena where such issues could be debated. That recurring image was the 
courtroom. At times, the evaluation of multiple truths took place during a trial; at 
other times, the protagonist vainly sought those who were supposed to judge 
him; and confessions to visible or invisible listeners acquired the tones of 


> Lévinas, Foucault, and Derrida are three major voices in the ongoing dialogue on ethics 
in today’s world. See also Zygmunt Bauman’s works on this topic. 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 157 


depositions. 

The judicial metaphor served many purposes: to foreground the inevitability 
of ethical choices; to reflect on the definition of human and civic responsibility; 
to place face to face different interpretations of the concept of justice; to explore 
the meanings given to words referring to human connections; and finally to 
analyze and perhaps exorcise the widening pessimism engulphing the twentieth 
century. In those tribunals, the just and the unjust could sit on either side of the 
courtroom. Innocence and guilt were equally inadequate to define the accused, 
who did not always know what the accusations were, but carried the burden of a 
guilt they felt was at the same time buried away and inescapable. The experience 
all human beings shared was the basis for a concept of solidarity that was 
supposed to overcome the disconnected presence of individuals in the world. No 
metaphysical dimension offered any hope of transcendence, all gods having been 
undone as much (one must assume) by the collapse of belief as by the worldly 
entanglements of all religious confessions. 

Since intertextuality weaves together many threads, the memory of other 
stories about justice and courtrooms is ever present in the fiction of Tabucchi. | 
think of Carlo Collodi, an Italian writer who is the epitome of fantastic realism 
and who is finally being rescued from the narrow confines of so-called children’s 
literature. In Tabucchi, there is a “dream of a dream” (Sogni di sogni 47-49) that 
is a homage to Collodi.’ Much earlier, in a novel crammed full of events, 
Tabucchi had resurrected some Collodian animal characters in a scene of justice 
perverted (// piccolo naviglio 175-83). Looking at the judge presiding at the 
trial, “Capitano Sesto capi senza possibilita di errore che esso era il gorilla di 
Pinocchio della sua infanzia” (175). Tabucchi’s fiction orchestrates with very 
different instruments the “primal” experience of the marionnette Pinocchio, that 
moment when human beings have for the first time the revelation of injustice, 
accompanied by a frustrated hunger for its opposite. Just as in Collodi, there 
lives in Tabucchi the culture of a harsh yet much loved Tuscany 
(“un’immaginaria maremma” L’angelo nero 9), irreverent, ironical, bitter, and 
ready to act, although without illusions about action’s outcome. Again, it is 
language that brings to light the writer’s points of reference and choices: Piazza 
d'Italia and I! piccolo naviglio are totally immersed in the Tuscan tradition of 
storytelling. But even later, Collodi’s presence returns either in characteristic 
expressions, or in magically evoked images (‘“lorsignori,” Reguiem 45 and 120, 
and passim; Damasceno Monteiro 211). 


4. The angel with black wings 
L’angelo nero appeared in 1991, and Requiem, in its original Portuguese 


* The biographical note at the end of the volume is clearly by Tabucchi, as the final 
sentences reveal: “Fu perseguitato dai reumatismi, dalle manie e dall’insonnia. Dette vita 
immortale a un burattino di legno” (Sogni di sogni 82). 


158 Angela M. Jeannet 


version, in the same year; Sogni di sogni in 1992, Sostiene Pereira in 1994, and 
La testa perduta di Damasceno Monteiro (which | will henceforth indicate as 
Damasceno Monteiro) in 1997. They follow one another very closely, revisiting 
history’s nightmares that Tabucchi had first evoked in Piazza d'Italia’ and II 
piccolo naviglio. Each book returns to fundamental thematics: the uninterrupted 
exchange between past and present, the crushing power of violence, resistance to 
it, and the experience of injustice. Other themes also emerge in Tabucchi’s later 
works to complicate the picture: a sense of guilt for one’s actions; an even 
greater remorse for omissions big and small; the temptation to yield to a desire 
for quiet living; and the creeping disillusionment that counsels inaction. As his 
thematics deepens, a shift occurs in his writing approach: from the thick 
amassing of images, sensations, and folk storytelling techniques, which are 
characteristic of the early novels, to a spare and rarefied atmosphere where few 
characters, at times only two, engage in a dialogue. 

A short story entitled “I] battere d’ali di una farfalla a New York pud 
provocare un tifone a Pechino?” (L’angelo nero 71-90) first proposes a scene 
where a grey-haired character facing an unnamed interrogator unwillingly makes 
a deposition. The inquisitor demands a confession couched in bureaucratic 
language, “io sottoscritto, cognome e nome...” (73), and uses the first person 
plural to refer to himself; whether to suggest a plurality of authoritarian figures, 
or to employ a pluralis maiestatis to stress his own power is never made clear. 
The grey-haired man is trying to evade the questioning, but the interrogator is 
very direct: “[...] la parte dello sfacciato impudente, ma sommerso dal rimorso, 
deve farla con i giudici; con noi deve essere umile, anzi, umilissimo” (74). Little 
by little, prodded by the questioner, who seems to know already every move and 
action the accused made many years before, the grey-haired man begins to 
provide details of an assassination in which he had participated “per la giusta 
causa” (78). But it soon becomes evident that the questioning is a ruse. The 
accuser is simply interested in the other man’s acknowledgement of his own 
responsibilities, for the questioner is keenly aware that the story has been 
festering for years inside the other man, in a remote corner of his memory. 
Suddenly, there is a shift in the dialogue, and the grey-haired man becomes 
anxious to tell someone what had happened, for the first time in his life (82). The 
narration that follows places the accused in the role of a witness, perhaps an 
informant, and the accuser in the role of a defense attorney, who suggests the 
appropriate behavior: “[...] meno freddezza, pit: passione. E lacrime. Insomma, 
il tormento. La nostra € una faccenda fondata sul pentimento, non se lo 
dimentichi” (85). Beyond the cat-and-mouse game and the allusions to the 
double hypocrisy of accused and accuser, there is no closure to the story. The 
ending is rather banal, with the inquisitor, a gentleman improbably dressed in a 


* “So che questo libro é le mie radici, di uomo e di scrittore. Tutto torna 0 niente torna” 
(Piazza d'Italia , 2nd edition, 7). 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 159 


sky-blue suit, suggesting that his code-name may be Dr. Conscience (90). By 
asking the question that the title of the story forms, and making reference to the 
mathematical concepts of fractals and catastrophe theory, the interrogator coldly 
and logically presents individual responsibility as one facet of universal 
interdependence. Action has a value because it causes unforeseeable, but no less 
real, repercussions. We are far from the dramatic, earnest tones used in the 
reconstructions of middle- and low-bourgeois milieus to which earlier writers 
had accustomed us. Tabucchi’s voice has an ironic tone; he favors dream-like 
situations, ghostly confrontations, and at times a melancholy playfulness made 
pungent by sarcastic allusions. 

The short story that follows in the same collection, “La trota che guizza fra 
le pietre mi ricorda la tua vita,” looks with greater specificity to the relationship 
between literature (poetry, to be precise) and the world. The volume that 
contains the story has a preface ending in a declaration at the same time 
redundant and ambiguous: “[...] il titolo di questo libro — the preface says — 
appartiene a Eugenio Montale, che prima di me si é imbattuto in un angelo con 
le ali nere. E un titolo che vuol essere un omaggio” (10). It is no mystery that the 
presence of Montale’s voice is pervasive in much Italian writing between the 
1930s and the 1960s. Even in Tabucchi’s earlier novels we find allusions and 
outright quotations. Just to cite the most obvious, in // piccolo naviglio there is a 
Montalean epigraph and a madrigal that is an ironic paraphrase of a well known 
poem by Montale (167). But the story in question does something that is more 
pointed and elusive than inserting a quotation: it “rereads” a certain Montalean 
persona whose impact on other writers was determinant at a time when they felt 
uncertain about what place writing and storytelling occupied in the world 
(Jeannet, ch. 1, “Literature and Doubt”). The poetic voice — faced with the 
public’s incomprehension and the crude attempts at being coopted by totalitarian 
regimes — hesitated between a refusal of contact with the “real” (almost a fear 
of contagion), a retreat into Hermetic poetry, and a disillusioned meditation on 
human affairs. Tabucchi’s character in the short story is a great poet, who is 
caught between the memories of what he once was and a cantankerous old age. 
He relishes flattery, particularly coming from young women, and responds to it 
by acting the part of the wise old poet. At the same time, he is condescending 
and impatient with his admirers, and mulls cynical thoughts. “La poesia é 
menzogna... tutta la scrittura ¢ un peccato contro se stessi” (L 'angelo nero 103). 
His disillusionment is such that he plots a scheme to have some of his latter bits 
of poetry published in small doses posthumously, to provide a young admirer 
with a profit and to show spite toward all critics. The references to Montale’s 
own life are quite plain, although it is debatable how much the poet might have 
been flattered by them. 

Requiem returns with greater urgency to the same theme, the connections 
between literature, world events, and retreat from involvement. A note at the 
beginning of the volume tells the reader what choices the writer made, choices 


160 Angela M. Jeannet 


that would have pleased Montale: “[...] ho preferito suonare la mia musica non 
con un organo, che é@ uno strumento proprio delle cattedrali, ma con 
un’armonica, che si puo tenere in tasca, 0 con un organetto, che si puo portare 
per strada” (8; my emph.). The ghost of a Portuguese writer, who accompanies 
the novel’s protagonist and narrator to a small Lisbon restaurant famous for local 
specialties, is quite frank and explicit about his former attitudes. He had been 
“della razza che rimane a terra,” to quote Montale again. And the narrator 
rejoins: “comodo... davvero comodo” (121). Unfazed, his interlocutor replies: 


“Eh, si [...] forse sono stato un po’ vigliacco, mi capisce?, ma lasci che le dica che 
proprio dalla vigliaccheria sono nate le pagine piu coraggiose del nostro secolo, pensi per 
esempio a quel cecoslovacco che scriveva in tedesco,... che coraggio aver scritto quel 
libro meraviglioso, sa? quel libro sulla colpa. // processo?, domandai, dev’essere // 
processo. Si, certo, disse lui, é il libro pit coraggioso del nostro secolo, ha il coraggio di 
affermare che tutti siamo colpevoli. Colpevoli di che?, domandai. Come di che?, disse 
lui, di essere nati, forse, e delle cose che sono successe in seguito, siamo tutti colpevoli.” 

(121-22) 


But spreading the blame is not helpful, and looking for noble alibis not 
convincing: the ghosts of history past are not so easily exorcised. Many ghosts 
return in Tabucchi’s works to fill the narrators’ nights and stifling afternoons, 
and sometimes they bring with them their own dreams (Sogni di sogni). It is as if 
a bothersome itch, a remorse, a disquiet persecuted them, even beyond the grave. 
We are told that the dreamer is the one who calls back the shadows of the dead 
(Requiem 63), so we must pay attention to which ghosts Tabucchi’s narrators do 
recall. Here comes a Majakovski who dreams of the moment when he betrayed 
poetry, a Goya whose brush fights with the horrors of human ferocity and 
despair, and a Lorca who dreams of his own assassination. They are the ghosts 
the European conscience has not put to rest. And we know that, while he was 
writing those short pieces out of a tangle of memories and dreams, Tabucchi was 
elaborating a more complex narrative, which he entitled Sostiene Pereira. 

Bruno Ferraro, in his 1995 article, analyzes thoroughly the tendentious 
polemics that swirled around the novel. Once we set aside the crudely political 
issues that occupied many critics, and even the explicitly developed thematics, 
what intrigues us is a rhetorical device: the repetition of a single verbal form 
echoing from the title on throughout the entire narration: “sostiene.” A 
disembodied voice reports the statements made by a character, the journalist 
Pereira, providing at the same time the distancing of a third-person narration and 
the testimony of an eyewitness who is privy to all the actions and emotions of the 
protagonist. The hidden metaphor is that of an inquisitorial space, where 
everything is supposedly already known, but must be brought out of the lips of 
the accused bit by bit, word by word, sentence by sentence, in self-accusatory 
fashion, through all sorts of doubts, repetitions, reticences, and re-evocations. 
The journalist’s character is a resurrection and recasting of the Montalean type 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 161 


of literary man. He is middle-aged, physically on the decline, and a lover of 
literature who aspires to remain aloof from history, particularly his country’s 
disastrous political events, even though to do so makes him feel uneasy. The 
novel is the story of Pereira’s slow and painful coming to awareness in the form 
of a deposition/confession. Pereira “sostiene,” that is to say “asserts” his truth, 
and feels impelled to provide full and detailed support for the statements 
referring to each moment in his recent existence. Tabucchi chooses to set aside 
his familiar surrealistic techniques in this novel, and he even provides an ironic 
and dramatic closure to the protagonist’s existence. This choice is a significant 
departure from his earlier style; it is a shift that parallels the traumatic 
transformation taking place in the protagonist’s conscience. Pereira could have 
gone on tolerating the small and large humiliations imposed by the authoritarian 
regime ruling his country. He is a solitary and skeptical man, with many 
memories and no hopes. But the turning point comes for him when he sees and 
hears a human body being massacred. When he must face the corporeal evidence 
of tyranny, only then does a sense of outrage awaken, and he is “forced” to rebel 
and take action. Tabucchi’s writing chooses to adhere to an_ individual 
experience that is so sudden, intense, and basic as to require the use of the 
witnessing mode and the simplest, most repetitious constructions. In Sartre’s and 
Camus’s fictions the focus of narration was Man, Sisyphus, or the Stranger, 
those mythical entities that were supposed to indicate the universality of 
experience; for Lévinas the Other is the Face, a philosophical construct; for 
Tabucchi’s narrator the Other is the Body, made of far from abstract flesh, with 
its miseries, suffering, and resistance. Pereira’s fault was one of omission: he had 
stubbornly avoided looking outside and inside himself for as long as he had been 
able to, in part under the pretext of philosophical aloofness and largely to protect 
a melancholy but quiet living. His confession/testimony must therefore be total, 
specific, unassailable, cruel and almost bureaucratic in its exactness. The 
innumerable ‘“‘sostiene” that punctuate the story express astonishment in their 
repetitiveness: astonishment at the accumulating evidence of cowardice, 
obtuseness, and self-deception; and astonishment at witnessing Pereira’s own 
sudden transformation, which he himself had not expected and for which he was 
not perhaps prepared. 

Similar in this aspect to other characters in Tabucchi’s fiction, Pereira is a 
peculiar journalist, lost in nostalgia for the myths of the past — France, Paris, a 
journalism of elite and romantically adventurous — and he is often visited by 
dreams and evocations of personal memories. In the end, he uses precisely the 
written language he was accustomed to manipulating and refining self- 
complacently, in order to play a dangerous stratagem; by denouncing political 
violence and injustice, he revises his attitude toward life and his relationship to 
writing. Language is of the essence here. The sequence of events is recorded by a 
self that is other from oneself, as someone had said earlier in a tale full of 
mysterious happenings: “tu sei un altro” (Notturno indiano 68). The words 


162 Angela M. Jeannet 


reported in Sostiene Pereira come from an observer who is as knowledgeable of 
the other as of his own conscience, as merciless as an inquisitor, and who is as 
invisible as a ghost. In the same manner, when a penitent judge in an Amsterdam 
café — in Camus’s La chute — confessed to an anonymous customer his failure 
to become involved in another person’s tragedy, the silent listener was a 
shadowy presence. The eye that sees what is within us is our own, and the 
witnessing takes place before our double, for there are no judging or punishing 
gods facing either Jean-Baptiste Clamence or the journalist Pereira.° We were 
told implicitly the reasons for such loneliness by the atheist physician in 
Notturno indiano (23-32), who is in turn a brother to the physician of La peste. 
If there is a zone undermined by doubt, or something discredited and mute in the 
face of human joys and suffering, that is preciseiy the universe of metaphysics. 


5. Returns 

The verba! form “‘sostiene,” which is a fundamental element in Sostiene Pereira, 
is not the only repetitive tactic used by the writer through the years, to construct 
his fictional universe. As if retracing its steps and deepening its exploration, 
Tabucchi’s fiction is an endless circling around the fundamental issues facing its 
own narrative and its readers, by means of an endless recalling of distinctive 
elements. 

Proper names reappear like clues, at times with only minimal changes. We 
first find Los Hermanos Montero in Piazza d'Italia (69), then echoed by 
Monteiro Rossi, the assassinated young man in Sostiene Pereira, and then again 
twice José Monteiro de Alameda (Damasceno Monteiro 52) and the decapitated 
Damasceno Monteiro. Specific images and metaphors also become narrative 
constants. Obsessively, each of Tabucchi’s stories is haunted by a body bruised, 
maimed, wounded to death, or mutilated, a body to which all events lead, and 
from which other events inexorably derive. Also, obsessively, as each story 
unfolds, a blinding sunlight and an oppressive heat pervade the scene. In the 
short story from L’angelo nero mentioned earlier, the profuse sweating of 
inquisitor and accused is a leit-motiv in the narration (73-76, 79). Heat torments 
the anguished characters and drenches them in sweat in Requiem (13, 16, 19, 23, 
26, 28, 31, and so on). In Sostiene Pereira “Il sole era implacabile” (88). “Il 
cielo era di un azzurro feroce” in Damasceno Monteiro (48, 123). This repetitive 
pattern is perhaps a rhetorical device less noticeable than others because of its 
apparent realistic touch, since the stories are located in Mediterranean countries 
under the summer sun. And yet, unbearable heat and light are clearly also 
memory and symbol in this fictional universe; they are traces connecting it to 
other narrations. The Sartrean hell where only late confessions could be 


° Bertone suggests that there is indeed an external listener, perhaps an analyst. However, 
Tabucchi’s characters usually seem to be rather skeptical about outside explorers of their 
psyches. 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 163 


rendered, was stifling to its inhabitants because of inescapable heat; Camus’s 
Meursault attributed his crime to the blinding light of the Algerian summer; and 
an oppressive heat characterized the atmosphere of the courtroom in which he 
sat, accused of murder. The matrix of Tabucchi’s tales is the same that nourished 
the last century of reflection on issues of violence, guilt, justice and injustice. 


6. Investing the Other with value 

What is left out of a story is as significant as what is included. A shift from the 
inclusion to the exclusion of a lexical element provides a clue to a changed focus 
in Tabucchi’s fiction. Negative expressions including the word “importanza” 
appeared often in his early works; even the title of a collection of short stories 
displayed it: Piccoli equivoci senza importanza (1985). Although at times, as in 
this title, it was used ironically, that expression and others from the same 
semantic field contributed to the construction of characters who had become 
listless or indifferent because of what they perceived as the intractable quality of 
the real. The boundaries between their waking and their dream worlds were 
fluid, and events took place in a frustrating flow that led nowhere; their world 
was enveloped in a sort of persistent fog, or rather, in the hallucination-inducing 
haze of a perpetual summer. Already in Notturno indiano expressions such as “‘it 
doesn’t matter” appeared a few times, but they increase in frequency in Piccoli 
equivoci senza importanza (10, 14, 81, 92, 117, 127), and become an essential 
component in // filo dell’orizzonte. \n the latter novel, the protagonist’s interest 
in a young man, who apparently was assassinated in an obscure episode of 
political violence and whose body remains unclaimed in the morgue, meets with 
surprise from those around him: “perché t’interessa?” (40; also 46, 69). The 
protagonist is told that the dead young man was a stranger, somebody who did 
not matter: “é uno sconosciuto... non conta niente nella tua vita” (80). Even the 
protagonist’s musings keep returning to the same statement: “quel morto... non 
importava a nessuno” (35; also, again 35, and 79). But these negative phrases 
and sentences, precisely because they echo everybody else’s point of view, 
indicate a discomfort and a lack of conviction, ultimately paralleling the 
protagonist’s increasing involvement in trying to solve the mystery of that death. 
Significantly, the dead man’s name is at first heard as “Carlo Nobodi” rather 
than as “Carlo Noboldi,” its correct form. In fact, a casual statement made by the 
protagonist’s woman-friend, and his insistence on returning to view and observe 
the lonely corpse, begin to undermine the protagonist’s and our own certainty 
about the boundaries of the two men’s identities. “Ma chi é lui per te?” (80) 
becomes an important question. “Potresti essere tu” — said the woman-friend 
when the body was described to her—and the remark was offered casually, 
“come se fosse un’osservazione senza importanza” (32). Yet, it may really lead 
to such fundamental questions as: Who is a stranger for us, what connection is 
there between ourselves and the Other? These questions may lead to another, 
especially essential question: “E tu... tu chi sei per te?” (80). The young man is 


164 Angela M. Jeannet 


dead, while the older man, the protagonist of the story, is alive (but why?), 
although he lives in a world “sbiadito” (13), “stanco” (37), di “cose trapassate” 
(13), where only the “archeologia di un passato prossimo” (14) barely survives. 
That “unimportant” thing, one man’s mysterious death by violence, and the 
protagonist’s life, an existence “senza importanza” surrounded by the signs of a 
violent past, become so intertwined that the story closes on the protagonist’s own 
mysterious disappearance. 

What may be important and what may be “senza importanza” is the core 
issue in Damasceno Monteiro, where the shift to a different plane is marked by 
the disappearance of the entire semantic family that distinguished the earlier 
novel. The techniques used in // filo dell’orizzonte owe much to the 
whodunit/mystery genre, even though Tabucchi insisted on foregrounding the 
ethical question that shapes the events in his character’s life. In Damasceno 
Monteiro, even the para-textual elements suggest a reading that must take into 
account a very specific perspective. The reproduction on the front cover shows a 
detail taken from the many studies Picasso drew for Guernica, as everyone easily 
recognizes. The volume’s epigraph is a quotation that includes a word play 
between “essere” and “esistere” that leads to a reflection on our entire culture’s 
value system: “Come puo esistere... un essere che nell’esistere mette un cosi 
grande annullamento dell’esistenza?” Tabucchi weaves his story around that 
contradiction. 

Damasceno Monteiro is Tabucchi’s most complex novel to date, where the 
role of protagonist keeps shifting, or perhaps divides, between several 
characters. The first character is a young reporter, rather self-satisfied and 
timidly full of himself. Although he likes to sport a blasé attitude, he harbors a 
naive fascination with the myth of France, and is enthusiastic about politically 
committed literature. But when he is in the presence of two strong 
personalities—Dona Rosa, hotel owner extraordinaire, and Fernando Diogo 
Maria de Jesus de Mello Sequeira, a big Oporto lawyer—he becomes an eager 
schoolboy. The adjectives that accompany and complement his gestures and 
actions are explicit: he is “umile,” “interdetto,” “perplesso,” and “imbarazzato” 
to the point of blushing (149). His name is given simply as “Firmino.” 

The implicit narrator is obviously older and more settled than the reporter. 
He is gently ironical when he observes Firmino, who aspires to the life of a 
scholar, and is all absorbed into questions that are by now “dead and gone” 
(“‘trapassate” in the novel) such as Vittorini’s writings. Firmino’s study of the 
works of the Italian writer is presented by the narrator as a generous but useless 
enterprise; and yet it may be so only apparently, since that literature has an 
important part in the young man’s formation as he moves toward what one could 
call a new awareness of the world. The narrator is very close to the young 
journalist, he can intepret his feelings, experience his sensations (22, 32, 51), and 
understand his naivete. 

But the truly new character in this novel is Don Fernando, who soon 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 165 


occupies the center of the narrative. The aura of mythical American films, where 
gruff lawyers fight courageously for justice, surrounds him, as his nickname 
proves: everybody knows him as “Loton,” a transliteration of Laughton, that is 
Charles Laughton. He, like Pereira, is obese and tormented by the hellish heat of 
the climate; he, too, like several characters in Requiem, loves authentic 
Portuguese cooking, rather coarse but tasty. But above all he nourishes a deep 
passion for justice, and insists on practicing his profession precisely in the 
tribunals of a country marked by long years of dictatorship. His other passion is 
literature, more specifically poetry. His peremptory statements about writers and 
politics, justice and the law, are far from conventional, and intimidate the young 
journalist. Curtly undercutting any attempt to define people and events by 
conventional measures, he makes sure to pre-empt the inevitable clichés: “Non 
pensi di trovarsi in una situazione kafkiana,” he says brusquely to Firmino (110) 
when the latter appears perplexed by the seemingly incongruous leaps in the 
lawyer’s conversation. Don Fernando views the fact that he is the defensor of 
those who suffer violence as “una specie di correzione tardiva della Storia” 
(111), since he is the descendant of a family that once held power over other 
human beings. He has studied “le ragioni che hanno indotto gli uomini a 
elaborare i codici [...] le ragioni che vi erano sottese, in senso magari astratto” 
(113), and has discovered the existence of that basic norm from which the 
arrogance of power descends, which offers all the alibis, and ultimately provides 
might with legitimacy, claiming for it the investiture from a divine source. 
Having become fascinated with the theoretical dimension of the law and its 
relationship to power, he has planned to devote his life to writing about it. Yet, 
he has also realized that the edifice of the Law is “un incerto edificio” (169), 
under whose weight the poor and oppressed get crushed. So, he has decided after 
all to practice law, although he is not sure of where the greater usefulness might 
be. He was certain of one thing, that “é piu umile [...] andare in tribunale a 
difendere coloro che subiscono [la tortura]” (178). There seems to be a paradox, 
here, as the novel, precisely by using writing, chooses to pursue the path Don 
Fernando abandoned, and indulges in a reflection on justice and commitment. 
What could be the use of that? But, as Don Fernando asserts, “in letteratura tutto 
c’entra con tutto” (129). 

We never hear the entire statement that Don Fernando pronounces in the 
courtroom for the prosecution of members of the police, who are drug dealers 
and also Damasceno Monteiro’s torturers and assassins. Significantly, the 
recording made by the young journalist on a defective tape-recorder preserves 
only fragments of it. On the one hand, the mishap underlines the reporter’s 
imperfect comprehension of the lawyer’s thought; on the other hand, those 
fragments point to the difficulty of articulating a coherent discourse about justice 
and opening up a higher vision of it, in the face of the actual state of human 
affairs. The three fragments separated by dots that remain from the opening of 
the lawyer’s address point to the bases of a belief system that invests the Other 


166 Angela M. Jeannet 


with value.’ Now, more clearly than in Tabucchi’s earlier texts, the characters’ 
concern is for the living: it is “being against death,” a crucial theme for much of 
the twentieth-century fiction that called the world “‘absurd.” The first fragment is 
a question: “cosa significa essere contro la morte?” (213). The second one states: 
“ogni uomo € assolutamente indispensabile a tutti gli altri e tutti sono 
assolutamente indispensabili a ciascuno.... ciascun uomo é radice dell’essere 
umano” (213). In a world devoid of meaning, all certainties have gone, except 
one, the value of human solidarity. Thus the lawyer Loton seems to answer the 
character who, in // filo dell’orizzonte, had asked the protagonist Spino why he 
insisted on trying to uncover the identity of a man who was a victim of 
assassination: “Ma chi é lui per te?.... € uno sconosciuto, non conta niente nella 
tua vita” (80). The third incomplete sentence reads, in a Camusian vein: “é per 
l’uomo essere contro la morte, ma poiché I’uomo non ha esperienza della propria 
morte ma solo della morte altrui, dalla quale solo per riflesso puo immaginare e 
temere la propria...” (214). That is also a statement that parallels the words of 
Lévinas: “[...] éthique surgit dans le rapport a autrui, et non pas, d’emblée, par 
une référence a |’universalité d’une loi. [...] Dés lors, importance du rapport a 
autre homme comme incomparable, comme dépouillé de tout ‘réle’ social et 
qui, ainsi, dans sa nudité—son dénuement, sa mortalité—s’impose d’emblée a 
ma responsabilité” (Aeschlimann 9). But Lévinas’s conclusion of that quotation 
is based on a trascendence that is not satisfied with a secular solidarity, and goes 
on to define responsibility as “bonté, miséricorde ou charité” (9). 

The last four pages of the novel confirm and make more explicit Don 
Fernando’s function as the heir of a European tradition that painfully attempted 
to address the issues of oppression, injustice, and human solidarity. Through the 
lawyer’s words the reader meets indirectly an unexpected eyewitness to 
Damasceno Monteiro’s torture and beheading; the person’s name may be 
Eleuterio, or Wanda, “un travestito, [...] schedato per prostituzione” (238). Don 
Fernando had already explained to Firmino that he felt himself to be part of the 
same humanity he defended: “Io difendo gli sciagurati perché sono come loro 
[...] come i disgraziati che difendo credo di aver conosciuto le miserie della vita, 
di averle capite e anche assunte” (126). When the journalist expresses doubts as 
to the reliability and credibility of such an eyewitness (““Figuriamoci’’—he says), 
Don Fernando responds with a gesture and few words: “Punto l’indice contro il 
soffitto, come se si rivolgesse all’aria, poi lo punto verso Firmino, e poi lo 
diresse verso il suo petto. — E una persona, disse, si ricordi questo, giovanotto, 
prima di tutto é una persona” (238). And indeed, Wanda’s very existence and 
courage is going to make it possible to hear a voice in a court of justice testifying 
to the violence that was perpetrated against another human being. 


’ According to a note Tabucchi placed at the end of the volume, they are the words of a 
philosopher, Mario Rossi. 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 167 


7. Conclusion: le “pari de Pascal” and “il gioco del rovescio” 

Brizio states that in Tabucchi’s universe “non é possibile conoscere la realta e 
arrivare alla verita” (115), but that may be only partially accurate. The “truth” in 
Tabucchi’s universe has to do with the rejection of the dualism supported by 
Thomas Mann’s conclusion: “In the final analysis, there are only two basic 
attitudes, two points of view: the aesthetic and the moral” (Booth 382). Truth is 
not selecting a partial vision, or choosing the frame of a small window to look on 
the world; as the protagonist said in Notturno indiano when he was shown a 
cropped photo, “pas de morceaux choisis”; truth lies in seeing the whole picture, 
all the joy and horror of the world (101-02), and giving it a voice. 

As a matter of fact, reversing Pascal’s bet in a sort of “gioco del rovescio,” 
Tabucchi’s characters repeat the question that was asked more than once: What 
if there were no God? The absence of all certainties leaves open the possibility 
of human solidarity, whose roots may be too remote to discover, but which may 
become the founding factor in the struggle against injustice and death. Each 
person matters — Tabucchi’s protagonists say — but only if in the Other’s body 
I can see my own body, its misery and its death. In his introduction to a 
collection of essays (3-25), Ferraro spoke of Pirandello’s presence in Tabucchi’s 
work, since both authors explored the themes of the plurality of selves, the 
appearance of the double, and the problematical relationship of art to life. | 
would add that for Tabucchi, as for Pirandello, suffering is what allows the self 
to become aware of its own existence and humanity. 

Tabucchi’s writing is rich in voices, languages, and silences; his pages are 
bright, playful, and rich in irony, sometimes also dark, quietly dramatic, and 
broken by ellipses. His characters are caught in a net of official lies, and 
terrorized by the arrogance of power. They display indifference, cowardice, or 
courage, while others engage in the struggle against a culture of injustice and 
death. His writing explores the relationship between itself and human existence, 
thereby subscribing to a form of engagement; it does so not by providing 
answers, but by asking the questions that matter, by its passion for the corporeal 
presence of language, and by a pervasive curiosity about all facets of our 
existence. “Ma la scrittura pud salvare da un’umiliazione incancellabile?” (222). 
The question that Don Fernando poses, the terrible question human beings have 
too often asked, remains without an answer. After several more fragments of his 
courtroom speech, one word stands alone on the recording: “... Pinfamia...” 
(224), which is the name of what is constantly present in history. Yet, there are 
witnesses to injustice. It is the voice of Don Fernando that brings out the details 
of the story of Damasceno Monteiro, a story told in spite of the incompleteness 
of the document that speaks of it, and the uncertain fate of the case’s judgement. 
It is the voice of Wanda, a casualty in society’s warfares, that will testify in 
court. It is by the pen of a writer named Antonio Tabucchi that the few lines of a 
report printed in an obscure newspaper in some European country, and a few 
personal memories, have metamorphosed into the “truth” of fiction. And what is 


168 Angela M. Jeannet 


a writer if not the voice of uncelebrated history? There was a character in 
Requiem who was a failed author by all the measures of literary success, but who 
had become a “‘story-seller” (Requiem 112). The one who tells stories—that 
novel tells us—is a magician (Requiem 125) because, thanks to his voice, death 
is never total (Requiem 109-11). To cite Joseph Francese: “The act of writing 
[...] is for Tabucchi a bridge between individuals and between past, present and 
future [...] for strengthening social bonds” (Annali d’italianistica 194-95); or to 
cite Tabucchi himself: “La letteratura é testimonianza della memoria” (166). 
Here lies the ethical dimension of Tabucchi’s written world. 

Franklin and Marshall College 


Works Cited 


Aeschlimann, Jean-Christophe, ed. Répondre d'autrui: Emmanuel Lévinas. Neufchatel: 
Editions de la Baconniére, 1989. 
Baranski, Zygmunt, and Lino Pertile, eds. The New Italian Novel. Edinburgh: Edinburgh 
UP, 1993: 
Bauman, Zygmunt. Life in Fragments. Essays in Postmodern Morality. Oxford: 
Blackwell, 1995. 
. Postmodernity and its Discontents. New York: New York UP, 1997. 
Bertone, Manuela. “Paths to Testimony in Sostiene Pereira.” Ferraro and Prunster 175- 
85. 
Biasin, Gian Paolo. “Frammenti di geografia romanzesca.” Annali d’italianistica 9 
(1991): 168-81. 
. Le periferie della letteratura. Ravenna: Longo, 1997. 
Booth, Wayne C. The Company We Keep. An Ethics of Fiction. Berkeley: U of California 
P, 1988. 
Brizio, Flavia. “Dal fantastico al postmoderno: Requiem di Antonio Tabucchi.” /talica 71 
(1994): 96-115. 
“Sostiene Pereira: The Crisis of the Intellectual between History and 
Literature.” Ferraro and Prunster 186-201. 
Camus, Albert. L 'étranger. Paris: Gallimard, 1942. 
. La peste. Paris: Gallimard, 1947. 
. La chute. Paris: Gallimard, 1956. 
Cervigni, Dino S. “The Modern and the Postmodern: An Introduction.” Annali 
d'Italianistica 9 (1991): 5-31. 
Collodi, Carlo. Le avventure di Pinocchio/The Adventures of Pinocchio. Bilingual 
edition. Ed. Nicolas J. Perella. Berkeley: U of California P, 1986. 
Cornell, Drucilla, Michel Rosenfeld, and David Gray Carlson, eds. Deconstruction and 
the Possibility of Justice. London: Routledge, 1992. 
Derrida, Jacques. “Force of Law: The ‘Mystical Foundation of Authority.”” Cornell et al. 
3-67. 
Ferraro, Bruno. “Letteratura e impegno in Sostiene Pereira di Antonio Tabucchi” 
Narrativa 8 (July 1995): 157-72. 
, and Nicole Prunster, eds. Antonio Tabucchi. A Collection of Critical Essays. 


A Matter of Injustice: Violence and Death in Antonio Tabucchi 169 


Melbourne: Latrobe University, 1997. 
Francese, Joseph. “The Postmodern Discourses of Doctorow’s Billy Bathgate and 
Tabucchi’s / dialoghi mancati.” Annali ditalianistica 9 (1991): 182-97. 
Geerts, Walter. “// filo dell’orizzonte di Antonio Tabucchi: una lettura della morte.” 
Roelens and Lanslots 113-24. 
Hadfield, Andrew, Dominic Rainsford, and Tim Woods, eds. The Ethics in Literature. 
New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1999. 
Jeannet, Angela M. Under the Radiant Sun and the Crescent Moon. Italo Calvino's 
Storytelling. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2000. 
Kearney, Richard. States of Mind. Dialogues with Contemporary Thinkers. New Y ork: 
New York UP, 1995. 
Klopp, Charles D. “Antonio Tabucchi: Postmodern Catholic Writer.” World Literature 
Today 71.2 (Spring 1997): 331-34. 
Lepschy, Anna Laura. “Antonio Tabucchi.” Baranski and Pertile 200-18. 
Lévinas, Emmanuel. “Ethics of the Infinite.” Kearney 177-99. 
Lollini, Massimo. // vuoto della forma. Scrittura, tesimonianza e verita. Genova: 
Marietti, 2001. 
Montale, Eugenio. L’opera in versi. Ed. Rosanna Bettarini and Gianfranco Contini. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1980. 
Pertile, Lino. “The Italian Novel Today.” Baranski and Pertile 1-19. 
Pessoa, Fernando. // libro dell'inquietudine. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1986. 
Ravvin, Norman. “Have you Reread Lévinas Lately? Transformations of the Face in 
Post-Holocaust Fiction.” Hadfield et al. 52-69. 
Roelens, Nathalie, and Inge Lanslots, eds. Piccole finzioni con importanza. Valori della 
narrativa italiana contemporanea. Ravenna: Longo, 1993. 
Ross, Andrew, ed. Universal Abandon? The Politics of Postmodernism. Minneapolis: 
Minnesota UP, 1988. 
Saramago, José. Manuale di pittura e calligrafia. 1977. Milano: Bompiani, 1998. 
Sartre, Jean-Paul. Huis clos. Paris: Gallimard, 1944. 
Tabucchi, Antonio. Piazza d'Italia. 1975. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1993. 
. Il piccolo naviglio. Milano: Mondadori, 1978. 
. Notturno indiano. Palermo: Sellerio, 1984. 
. Piccoli equivoci senza importanza. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1985. 
_ Il filo dell’orizzonte. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1986. 
. | dialoghi mancati. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1988. 
. Un baule pieno di gente. Scritti su Fernando Pessoa. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1990. 
. L'angelo nero. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1991. 
. Requiem. Un'allucinazione. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1992. (Original ed.: Requiem. 
Uma alucinagao. Lisbon: Quetzal, 1991.) 
. Sogni di sogni. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1992. 
. Sostiene Pereira. Una testimonianza. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1994. 
. La testa perduta di Damasceno Monteiro. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1997. 
. La gastrite di Platone. Palermo: Sellerio, 1998. (La gastrite de Platon. Paris: 
Editions Mille et une nuits, 1997.) 
. Gli Zingari e il Rinascimento. Vivere da Rom a Firenze. Milano: Feltrinelli, 
1999. 











i 


re ee 
a 


7 





Thomas E. Peterson 





The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s “Ragioni d’una 
poesia” 


The text I discuss here, ““Ragioni d’una poesia,” is a composite of articles, talks, 
and essays from the period 1922 to 1969 that Giuseppe Ungaretti used to 
introduce his collected poems, Vita d’un uomo (‘‘Ragioni d’una poesia” Ixi-xcv). 
While the critical literature on the poetry is extensive, little has been written on 
the essays and almost nothing on this autoexegesis. Here Ungaretti assumes the 
stature of the “poeta di oggi,” the poet of his day and of destiny, and while such 
a claim is not unfamiliar to readers of such poets as Carducci or d’Annunzio, in 
Ungaretti’s case the monumental figure of the national poet or vate is turned 
upside down. Not a “hero” so much as a “nomad,” Ungaretti is only a vate in the 
oracular sense of one who sees deeper into nature, into its realities and illusions. 
He is a poet-prophet, a modern classic who would speak in unanimity with the 
people, a “man of pain,’ a wanderer and a visionary in an era of moral 
blindness. Having lived his first twenty-four years in Alexandria, Egypt, 
Ungaretti came to Italy in 1912, then moved to France. With the outbreak of 
World War I he repatriated and enlisted. After the war he again resided in Paris 
before moving to Rome in 1920. He taught in Brazil in the late 1930s and 
subsequently moved back to Rome. Much of the “Ragioni” is a revisitation of 
these places, viewed as sites of poetry and revelation. 

The essay is thus a sort of collage; it has no scientific or theoretical 
pretensions, other than that science itself — in a society given over to it — must 
perceive its limits if the human soul is to remain intact. Ungaretti’s prose is 
rhetorically prepossessing; he recounts personal truths in the form of a treatise 
on literature. Referring to himself alternately in the first and the third persons, he 
inserts himself in a lineage of classic Italian poets joined by their common 
“song.” The lineage is not defined formalistically but rather by the common 
“heartbeat” and love of Italy shared by the poets of the Due- and Trecento — 
Jacopone, Guittone, Dante, Petrarch — as well as Tasso, Leopardi, and the 
author himself. While not unsystematic, Ungaretti’s “poetic reasons” rely on 
intuition and experience more than logic. There is a sort of rhetorical halation 


' An earlier “Ragioni d’una poesia,” published in 1949, is combined with the 1946 essay 
“Riflessioni dello stile.” with some emendations to both texts and with subsequent 
additions, to arrive at the definitive 1969 text. See Vita d’un uomo. Saggi e interventi, 
747-67, 1000-06. 


Annali d’'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


172 Thomas E. Peterson 


around his arguments; nevertheless, they are compelling and one is inclined to 
accept their truthfulness within the particular language system devised by the 
poet. That is, one is inclined to accept the “Ragioni” in its moral and ethical 
dimension, as the frank recapitulation by Ungaretti of his “responses” to the 
conditions of his existence. It is a testimonial whose ultimate focus is the ethics 
and pathos of poetry itself as the unique form of song capable of satisfying one’s 
religious yearnings. 

Before approaching the “Ragioni,” | would like to make some comments 
about the poetry. This highly concentrated body of work had its meteoric 
departure with the poems that found their definitive form in L’Allegria (1923). 
These poems were abrupt communiqués, vertical masts of suffering or 
revelation, often annotated with the time and place of composition. The word, or 
vocable, was all important, and presumed a direct allegiance to speech, breaking 
free from all previous constraints of literary measure. The word was an emphatic 
island in the sea of consciousness, a trace of the unsayable on the white page.’ 
Like his admired Mallarmé, Ungaretti assumed for his poetry the dual focus of 
metaphysics and music, which would not change, though each subsequent book 
would carry the imprint of its temporal passage.’ Even when his poems grew 
mannered, Ungaretti’s concerns remained constant as he continued to dwell on 
the primacy of religious experience. 

In the poems of L’Allegria order is achieved by truncating lines and 
imposing silences as a fact of versification. Franco Fortini writes, “La durata 
reale di una composizione é quindi di molto maggiore di quella che sembrerebbe 
inerire al testo. I silenzi vengono finalmente associati a tutti gli altri segni grafici 
che suggeriscono dizione e intonazione.” (“The actual duration of a composition 
is therefore much greater than would seem inherent to the text. The silences end 
by being associated with all the other graphic signs which suggest diction and 
intonation” 71). In these graphically encoded and fiercely enunciated silences 
one senses a desire, equal to that of Eugenio Montale, to overcome any sense of 
mystification with the poetry of Gabriele D’Annunzio. Yet unlike Montale, who 
stated that contemporary poets needed to go through (and not around) the poet 
of Abruzzi, Ungaretti’s reaction is autonomous. It is a revolt based on his own 
ideals and social attitudes, and not on a negative critique. In his protagonism is 
an implied trust that the message of his poetry, though inhibited by the slowness 
of a collective spiritual evolution, will eventually prove his status as “il poeta 
d’oggi” (“today’s poet” Ixxi), the one master capable of hearing the distant 
Arcadian strains of the aulic tradition without sacrificing his novelty, modernity, 
and immediacy. Here too there is a paradox, for Ungaretti is anything but 


> Fortini writes: “Le pause di silenzio ungarettiane sono veri e propri atti di 
intimidazione. Non debbono essere riempite da nessuna partecipazione emotiva del 
lettore. Debbono essere, per cosi dire, ascoltate” (70). 

3 See Weinfield’s introduction to Mallarmé (xi-xix). 


The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s ‘‘Ragioni d’una poesia” 173 


spontaneous in his editing; he is the first major Italian poet to cultivate his 
variants in an extensive /abor limae of correction and editing over many years. 
According to Fortini, the intentions of the poet in editing his earliest poems 
throughout the period 1916-1923 is to arrive at the most dramatic versions 
possible: 


[L]a poesia dell’ A//egria é, in senso profondo, teatrale. L’uomo cosi ammutilito non sara 
quello del tardo simbolismo, ridotto al silenzio dalla comunione mistica o dalla 
disperazione metafisica. Infatti, piuttosto che di sconfitta, la tonalita delle liriche 
dell’ A/legria é d’una tensione vitale sorpresa di se stessa, sbalordita di poter esistere. 
({T]he poetry of L'Allegria is, in a profound sense, theatrical. The man who has grown 
silent in this way will not be that of late symbolism, reduced to silence by mystic 
communion or by metaphysical desperation. In fact, rather than defeat, the tonality of the 
lyrics of L 'Allegria is of a vital tension surprised by itself, amazed at its ability to exist.) 
(71) 


The ineluctability and ethical moment of Ungaretti’s poetry are addressed by 
Gianfranco Contini in Esercizi di lettura in terms of his direct link to Leopardi: 
“Consolazione, entusiasmo, passione, illusione sono le formule relative a questo 
carattere della poesia in quanto umana attivita” (Consolation, enthusiasm, 
passion, illusion are the formulas relative to this character of poetry as human 
activity” 44). What in Leopardi is accomplished by the entire phrase has its 
parallel in Ungaretti in the word and specifically in “il nome come fatto 
religioso” (“the noun as a religious fact”); it is in this syntony that Contini finds 
“Pincomparabile fertilita dell’‘allegria’ di Ungaretti come parola; e insieme il 
punto in cui /a sua etica diventa poesia” (‘the incomparable fertility of 
Ungaretti’s ‘allegria’ as a word; and at once the point in which ethics becomes 
poetry” 46 [emphasis mine]). As we will see below, Leopardi’s centrality to 
Ungaretti’s self-conception concerns the necessary link between morality and 
style. 

Beginning with his second book, Sentimento del Tempo, Ungaretti evolved 
a brand of hermeticism that could only allude to the experience of the Absolute 
(that is, God), or the anguish of one’s solitude in its absence. Only thus, he felt, 
could he transcend the conflict between nature and intellect, between the 
mechanical exteriority of being in the objective world, and the interior 
subjectivity of the experience of time and memory. Mario Luzi has written in 
this regard of Ungaretti’s “protagonismo” and “‘nomadismo,” which has obvious 
connections to his sense of being an exile or a “vox clamantis in deserto” (43, 45, 
49). In L’Allegria this protagonism occurs within a clearly defined historical 
framework; from Sentimento del Tempo forward that register is elided, for the 
sake of a more obscure engagement with time and memory that coincides with a 
greater rhetorical sophistication and syntactic complexity. Contini distinguishes 
the two books as follows: 


174 Thomas E. Peterson 


L‘allegria dava il senso delle cose presenti e instanti, e in pit’ d’un’invalicabile distanza; 
svolta una tal posizione fino a invertirla al possibile, Ungaretti mette ora l’accento sopra 
la distanza. Senso dell’intervallo dunque [...] ma che riconosceremo come intervallo 
temporale [...]. Sentimento del Tempo non ha guadagnato a buon mercato il suo titolo, 
s’imposta sopra un cambiamento di tempo. 
(L’Allegria gave the sense of things present and pressing, and of an insurmountable 
distance; having developed such a position to the point of inverting it into the realm of 
the possible, Ungaretti now puts the accent on the distance. Thus a sense of interval [...] 
which we will recognize as a temporal interval [...]. Sentimento del Tempo has not earned 
its title cheaply, it is organized upon a change in time.) 
(69) 

As in the Eliot of “Time present and time past / are both perhaps present in 
time future, / And time future contained in time past” (“Burnt Norton” 13), the 
poet defined the site of his poems as that of memory. By exalting memory, he 
set the limits of literary autobiography within a tradition, like that postulated by 
Eliot. As Luzi writes: 


Cid che € al di la del presente come miraggio é una riscoperta dell’antico. Futuro é 
primordio. Terra promessa é infatti terra del ritorno. Questo é appunto il dominio, adesso 
senza piu le difficili frizioni con il presente, della memoria. La memoria di Ungaretti 
naturalmente e per conforto bergsoniano é una memoria senza oggetto su cul svettano 
due sole luci possibili, quella del mito e quella del desiderio. 
(That which is beyond the present as a mirage is a rediscovery of the ancient. The future 
is the primordial. The promised land is in fact the land of return. This is precisely the 
dominion of memory, now no longer laden with any difficult frictions with the present. 
Ungaretti’s memory, comfortably and naturally Bergsonian, is a memory without an 
object upon which only two possible lights loom, that of myth and that of desire.) 

(48) 


It is precisely this “memory without an object” and avoidance of “frictions with 
the present” that defines Ungaretti’s poetry of “innocence” (or “ingenuousness,” 
as Pasolini would say). His pursuit of myth and desire is a religious one, a 
synchronic mise-en-abime stretched across the poles of a dualism that takes 
many forms, most prominently that of plenitude and the void. Ungaretti 
discovers in the void the spiritual validity of doubt, of the Pascalian gamble with 
God. Pasolini has written of the polarity between the “vital heresy” of 
Ungaretti’s Jansenism and sensuality, on the one hand, and his confessional 
pursuit of “God as Essence,” on the other (“La nuova allegria” 67). In general 
we can say that Ungaretti’s ability to posit this dichotomy, of anguish and piety, 
of faith and darkness, is a manifestation of his vitalism, that philosophy 
Huizinga has defined as “anti-noetic” because it privileges “living” above 
“knowing,” and tends “to relapse into a bewildering confusion of logical and 
poetical means of expression” (88, 92, 93).4 


* See especially Chapters 10 and 11, “The Disavowal of the Intellectual Principle” and 


The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s ““Ragioni d'una poesia” 175 


I would like to keep this vitalistic poetics of memory in mind as we discuss 
the “Ragioni d’una poesia,’ where one continues to find the terms of 
bewilderment and prodigiousness present in the poetry. The original title of the 
work, “Sentimento di Dio,” reveals the author’s tendency to associate the 
affective yearning for the divine with the actual religious experience, and to 
consider poetry as the vehicle to link the two.” 

Ungaretti presents the “Ragioni” as a series of reflections: 


Ho, ed € naturale, riflettuto come qualsiasi scrittore o artista, ma non vi ho riflettuto se 
non per le difficolta che via via l’espressione mi opponeva esigendo d’essere posta in 
grado di corrispondere integralmente alla mia vita d’uomo. 
(I have, naturally, like any artist or writer, reflected on the problems of poetic expression 
and style; but I have done so only in response to the difficulties of expression itself, 
which demanded a position in integral correspondence to my life as a man.) 

(Ix1) 
In the five separate extracts that open the “Ragioni” and the lengthy coda that 
concludes it, the “difficulties of expression” that Ungaretti confronts are not 
technical in nature but concern his root assumptions about life, epistemology, 
and the limits of knowledge. Specifically they concern the religious crisis of 
modern man in his confrontation with the horrors of war, the loss of belief, and 
the possibility of miracle. The earliest entry, from an article published in La 
Ronda in 1922, concerns Jacques Riviére: 


Ora l’errore di Riviére era di credere che l’opera di Dostoevskij potesse trasporsi in 
problemi di metodo, d’analisi, di psicologia a cosi ridotta generare un buon romanzo di 
tipo francese. Per Dostoevskij c’era principio — diciamo principio lirico — nel momento 
quando gli pareva cessasse ogni possibilita di capire, avendo capito, misteriosamente 
capito, troppo. 
(Riviére’s error was in believing that Dostoevsky’s work could be transposed to problems 
of methodology, analysis and psychology, and thus reduced to generate a good French- 
type novel. For Dostoevsky there was a beginning — let’s say a lyrical beginning — in 
the moment when for him every possibility of understanding seemed to suddenly 
collapse, having understood, mysteriously understood, too much.) 

(Ixii) 
The theme of moral blindness that will remain constant through the excursus is 
thus established. Ungaretti states his belief that “l’arte avra sempre. un 
fondamento di predestinazione e di naturalezza; ma insieme avra un carattere 


“The Worship of Life.” 

* This linking of the irrational motives of the heart, seeking God, and the rational syntax 
of language, evolves through different phases in Ungaretti’s career, as is discussed in 
Pasolini’s essay, “Un poeta e dio.” Ungaretti’s religiosity is inspired by the works of the 
Jansenist Pascal, but, stripped of Christian practice in the ambivalent manner of Bergson, 
it could be said to ignore “the germs [in Pascal] of a revolutionary social criticism,” born 
of a paradoxical view of the legitimacy of existing temporal powers (Auerbach 128). 


176 Thomas E. Peterson 


razionale, ammesse tutte le probabilita e le complicazioni del calcolo” (“art will 
always have a basis in predestination and nature; but it will have a rational 
character as well, admitting all the probabilities and complications of a 
calculation” Ixiii). About this unique ability of art to hypothesize in images, he 
writes, “Questa é |’arte greco-latina, la nostra, |’arte mediterranea, arte di prosa e 
arte di poesia, secoli e millenni d’arte. Quest’arte puo anche dirsi miracolo: 
miracolo d’equilibrio.” (“This is Greco-Latin art, our Mediterranean art, art of 
prose and poetry, centuries and millennia of art. This art can also be patterned on 
miracle: the miracle of balance” Ixiv); and “tutto quel potere d’evocazione della 
realta, quel potere magico di restituire per sempre, muovendo la fantasia, un 
momento: della realta, l’arte l’ottiene principalmente per la sua forza 
geometrica. Certo il dono degli artisti veri sara quello di riuscire a dissimulare 
questa forza, come la grazia della vita nasconde lo scheletro” (“all that power of 
evocation and reality, that magic power of restoring forever a moment of reality 
which moves the imagination, is obtained by art primarily through its 
geometrical force. The gift of true artists is of course that of successfully 
concealing this force, just as the grace of life hides the skeleton” Ixiv-Ixv). 

These remarks are from 1922; the next installment is from 1930, taken from 
an article in a Torino newspaper. By now Ungaretti was famous and widely 
emulated. He begins the practice of speaking of himself in the third person, as 
the “poet of today” or the “man of sorrow,” whose calling was to defend the 
possibility of poetry, against all odds: “In quegli anni, non c’era chi non negasse 
che fosse ancora possibile, nel nostro mondo moderno, una poesia in versi. Non 
esisteva un periodico, nemmeno il meglio intenzionato, che non temesse 
ospitandola, di disonorarsi.” (“In those years everyone denied that poetry was 
possible any longer in our modern world. No journal existed, not even the most 
well meaning, that did not fear by welcoming it to be disgraced” Ixv). Here as 
elsewhere the facts reported preserve the patina of Ungaretti’s way of 
remembering, which is often selective or over-dramatized. The poems he refers 
to, written between 1919 and 1925, “Le stagioni,” “La fine di Crono,” “Sirene,” 
“Inno alla Morte,” were indeed dramatic works. Of them he writes: 


Pensavo alla memoria, e non potevo non essere ingiusto col sogno. In verita non era 
ingiustizia; ma la persuasione, che stava maturandosi in me, che la poesia italiana non 
fiorisce se non in uno stato di perfetta lucidita: tecnica, sensazioni, logica, sogno o 
fantasia e sentimento: tutte queste cose per noi non hanno senso se simultaneamente non 
vivano oggettivate — oggettivate per un poeta, in una parola che canti. E dunque il fatto 
stesso di credere molto pit’ che in noi, nelle nostre opere, di sentirci senza rimedio 
modellati non dal nostro mondo interno, ma dalle nostre opere, implichera da parte della 
memoria un intervento chiarificatore. Le cose, a questo solo patto, muovono la nostra 
fantasia, si collocano al loro vero posto, acquistano per noi la sola profondita che conti, 
quella dal tempo, e ci meravigliamo — gia cosi distaccate da noi, cosi distanti — per il 
loro pudore, e ci fanno, se vi pare, sognare; ma é un sognare ad occhi aperti. 

(I was concerned with memory and couldn’t help slighting the dream. In truth, it wasn’t a 


The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s ‘‘Ragioni d’una poesia” 177 


slight so much as the conviction that was maturing in me that Italian poetry only 
flourishes in a state of perfect lucidity: technique, sensations, logic, dream or 
imagination, and feeling: all these make no sense unless they live simultaneously, 
objectified by a poet in a language that sings. And therefore the very fact of believing 
much more in our work than in ourselves will implicate the clarifying role of memory. 
Only in this way do things move our imagination, situated in their true place, and acquire 
for us the only depth that matters, that of time, and we are amazed at their modesty — 
already so detached from us, so distant — and they cause us to dream, if you will, but it is 
a dreaming with eyes open.) 
(Ixvi) 
The task of art is to cope with suffering, with the “crowd” within oneself, 
“come se un cieco dalla nascita raccontasse la sua visione dal mondo” (“as if a 
man blind from birth were recounting his vision of the world” Ixvii). Recovering 
his discussion of Dostoevsky he writes: 


E se in quei romanzi si fa un gran parlare del divino e di Dio, in fondo in fondo é orrore 
della vita, € senso del nulla equivalente a senso del divino: é il senso d’un’umanita che si 
raffigura in un’orrenda mitologia e nella quale ciascun individuo non si differenzi dagli 
altri se non per la turba mostruosa e torturante delle proprie fissazioni. 
(And if in those novels there is a great discussion of the divine and of God, in fact it is a 
horror for life, it is a sense of the nothing equivalent to the sense of the divine: it is the 
sense of a humanity which represents itself in a horrendous mythology within which each 
individual is not differentiated from the others save by the monstrous and torturous crowd 
of his own fixations.) 

(Ixvii) 


In his next series of reflections, Ungaretti focuses on language as a means 
of measuring the myriad strands of experience that poetry is called on to reorder: 
Non si trattava pil d’intendere la misura come mezzo per chiarirsi il sentimento del 
mistero; ma di spalancare gli occhi spaventati davanti alla crisi d’un linguaggio, davanti 
all’invecchiamento d’una lingua, cioé al minacciato perire d’una civilta — si trattava di 
cercare ragioni di una possibile speranza nel cuore della storia stessa: di cercarle, cioé, 
nel valore della parola. 

(It was no longer a question of understanding measure as a means to clarify the feeling of 
mystery; but of opening wide one’s frightened eyes to the crisis of a language, that is, to 
the threatened perishing of a civilization — it was a question of looking for reasons of a 
possible hope in the heart of history itself, that is, of looking for them in the value of the 
word.) 

(Ixvil) 

These remarks are taken from a talk given in several cities on “the historical 
development of Italian and European poetry,” in which he traces the historical 
failure of aesthetic thought to keep pace with the advances of scientific thought: 
Se il Seicento ha l’idea gia scientifica della memoria indicataci da Galileo, e porta una 
grande rivoluzione nelle forme, ed é un secolo violento d’espressione, trova appunto 
nell’identita fra memoria e fantasia, quell’eccesso di fantasia che gli permettera di 
ricongiungere gli spezzati modelli [della bellezza formale] in una forma nuova si, ma non 


178 Thomas E. Peterson 


meno regolata dalla classicita. 
(If the seventeenth century has the already scientific idea of memory indicated to us by 
Galileo, and brings about a great revolution in forms, and is a century violent in 
expression, it finds precisely in the identity between memory and imagination that excess 
of imagination that will allow it to rejoin the broken models [of formal beauty] into a new 
form, yes, but one no less under the control of classicality.) 
(Ixviil) 
For the advance in question to take place we must wait for Leopardi, the 
first figure to return to the sources of the classical since pre-Socratic times. 
Again, we see the extreme hypotaxis Ungaretti is prone to: 
Se il procedimento stilistico del Leopardi pvo anche chiamarsi classico, se si vuole, ed 
era il nome che egli stesso dava, s’egli rifugge dalla forma metaforica cara ai 
Predanteschi, a Dante, al Petrarca, al Seicento, pil o meno a tutti i poeti italiani sino 
all’Ottocento, e si limita a descrivere gli oggetti valorizzandone i colori col tono del 
proprio sentimento, la sua poesia sarebbe anacronistica, avrebbe il difetto che gli 
dispiaceva di pil! — se quel tono del suo sentimento non fosse, com’é, romantico. 
(If Leopardi’s stylistic procedure can also be called classical, and that was the name he 
gave it, if he flees from the metaphorical form dear to the poets before Dante, to Dante 
and Petrarch, to the seventeenth century, to virtually all Italian poets until the nineteenth 
century, and limits himself to describing objects, evaluating their colors with the tone of 
his own feeling, then his poetry would be anachronistic, it would have the defect which 
most displeased him — were that tone of his feelings not, as it was, romantic.) 
(Ixviii-Ixix) 


By the same token, “nella sua opera, il Leopardi prevede ed esaurisce, 
anche opponendovisi in un certo senso, |’esperienza romantica” (“in his work, 
Leopardi foresees and exhausts the romantic experience, even opposing himself 
to it in a certain sense” Ixix). His discoveries concerning Homeric anachronisms 
in Virgil are pertinent to the “moral relativity” of his own era: 


Egli, indicando due tappe della sensibilita, mette in moto, tra quei due stati della 
coscienza, una frazione di tempo come riflesso variabile. come il simbolo fluido, lo 
specchio della vita psicologica. La nozione di tempo ¢ ormai data come storia dell’anima 
e d’un’anima — in quei termini cioé che sviluppera il Romanticismo. Col Leopardi, il 
tempo facendosi punto, punto mobile, di riferimento, ¢ la relativita che entra 
risolutamente in campo, la relativita morale, del bene e del male, la relativita estetica, del 
brutto e del bello. 
(Indicating two stages of sensibility he sets in motion, between those two states of 
consciousness, a fraction of time as variable reflection, as the fluid symbol or mirror of 
psychological life. By now the notion of time is established as the history of the soul and 
of a soul — in those terms which Romanticism will develop. With Leopardi, time 
becoming the point, the moving point of reference, it is relativity that enters resolutely 
into camp, moral relativity of good and evil, aesthetic relativity of the ugly and beautiful.) 
(Ixvili) 


The Ungarettian themes of “una sete d’innocenza” (‘a thirst for innocence’’) 


The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s “Ragioni d’una poesia” \79 


and of “la memoria che ha reso estrema e intollerabile |’antinomia tra individuo 
a societa” (“memory which has rendered the antinomy between individual and 
society intolerable and extreme” Ixix) are found in Leopardi and in that poet’s 
reading of Pascal. In another essay, in fact, Ungaretti asserts that Leopardi’s 
poem “L’infinito” is based on one of Pascal’s penseés, in which one reads: “Le 
silence éternel de ces espaces infinis m’effraie” (“The eternal silence of these 
infinite spaces frightens me”).° Given the general crisis in belief of the last two 
centuries and the onrush of mechanized civilization, writes Ungaretti, 


I] poeta d’oggi ha dunque avuto per prima preoccupazione quella della riconquista del 
ritmo; ma come andava riconquistato, riconoscendo l’importanza della forma. Per 
risvegliare l’innocenza, egli non ha negato la memoria. Ha ascoltato il verso pit: antico e 
di sempre, perché esprime la fatalita stessa d’una lingua. 
(Thus today’s poet has had as his main concern the regaining of rhythm; but in the 
manner that it needed to be regained, by recognizing the importance of form. In order to 
reawaken innocence, he did not deny memory. He listened to the most ancient verse and 
that of all times, because it expresses the very fatality of a language.) 
(1xx) 

It is in the “fatality of language” that language must be reborn in rhythm, in 
the lyrical moment of ambiguity and the indefinite. And again the reference is to 
Ungaretti’s own poems, with their astonishing brevity and sense of metaphysical 
confrontation. He compares the rhythm and measure of his work to that of a 
machine, a machine of memory held in common by a gathered lineage one is 
called on to receive through the spoken word: 


La macchina ha richiamato la sua attenzione proprio perché racchiude in sé un ritmo: cioe 
lo sviluppo d’una misura che |’uomo ha tratto dal mistero della natura — che Il’uomo ha 
tratto da quel punto dove é venuta a mancargli l’innocenza. La macchina € una materia 
formata, severamente logica nell’ubbidienza d’ogni minima fibra a un ordine 
complessivo: la macchina é il risultato di una catena millenaria di sforzi coordinati. Non ¢€ 
materia caotica. Cela, la sua bellezza sensibile, un passo dell ’intelletto. Cosi, nell’uso del 
verso, cercando d’imparare a mettere in moto gli arti delicati, le leve immateriali d’una 
macchina suprema, il poeta italiano torna a riconoscere che si mette in grado di ascoltare, 


° “Pascal é spaventato dal silenzio della sua scienza, se invoca Dio, e sa che solo agli 
slanci del cuore Dio da ascolto: il Leopardi vuole solo indicare che la sua poesia, 
l’infinito che in quel momento sente usando le parole di Pascal, gli viene: ‘il guardo 
esclude’ da un’illusione ottica dovuta a un’inframmettenza d’una siepe e, se si vuole, 
dun colle” (Ungaretti, Vita d'un uomo. Saggi e interventi 798). 


180 Thomas E. Peterson 


nel proprio ritmo, i ritmi a mezzo dei quali all’orecchio dei padri era persuasiva la musica 
dell’anima — la musica che porta a quel punto dal quale, sciogliendosi nel mistero, la 
poesia pud, nelle volte rare della sua perfezione, illustrarsi d’innocenza. 
(The machine caught his attention precisely because it encloses within itself a rhythm: 
that is, the development of a measure man has drawn from the mystery of nature — from 
that point where he lost his innocence. The machine is formed matter, severely logical in 
obedience to every slightest fiber of a complex order: the machine is a result of a 
millenarian chain of coordinated forces. It is not chaotic matter. Its sensory beauty 
conceals a step forward of the intellect. Thus, in the use of verse, seeking to set in motion 
the delicate arts, the immaterial levers of a supreme machine, the Italian poet again 
recognizes that he is preparing to listen, in his own rhythm, to the rhythms by which the 
music of the soul persuaded the ears of his fathers — the music that leads to that point 
where, dissolving in mystery, poetry can, in its rare moments of perfection, shine with 
innocence.) 

(Ixx) 


There is a heavy dependence in this prose on tautology, metaphor and visual 
imagery; its coherence is that of a testimonial: 


Ecco un primo perché la sua poesia sanguina, € come uno schianto di nervi e delle ossa 
che apra il volo a fiori di fuoco, a cruda lucidita che per vertigine faccia salire 
l’espressione all’infinito distacco del sogno. 
(This is the primary reason why his poetry bleeds, it is like a smashing of nerves and 
bones that gives wings to fiery flowers, to a raw lucidity which by vertigo causes 
expression to be raised to the infinite detachment from dream.) 

(Ixxil) 


To gain access to this prose one must attempt to hear the timbre of 
Ungaretti’s voice, and accept his sincerity when he claims to describe the state 
of mind of the contemporary poet in terms of the change in consciousness 
occasioned by Romanticism: “Era ritorno a un senso acuto della natura, ed era, 
simultaneamente, |’inderogabile ammissione, quale fattore necessario di poesia, 
della genesi della memoria da rintracciare a ricostituire in noi — era lo stato 
acuto di coscienza che s’incontra in tutta la poesia d’oggi.” (“It was a return to 
an acute sense of nature and, simultaneously, the undeniable admission, as a 
necessary factor of poetry, of the genesis of memory, to be retraced and 
reconstituted within us — it was the acute state of consciousness that is found in 
all of today’s poetry” Ixxi). Again speaking of himself in the third person, 
Ungaretti’s orphism and pursuit of knowledge through darkness is apparent: 


Quando, dal contatto d’immagini, gli nascera luce, ci sara poesia, e tanto maggiore 
poesia, per quest’uomo che vuole salire dall’inferno a Dio, quanto maggiore sara la 
distanza messa a contatto. Crediamo in una logica tanto pil. appassionante quanto piu si 
presenti insolubilmente ricca d’incognite. 

(When, from the contact of images, light is born within him, there will be poetry, and 


The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s “‘Ragioni d’una poesia” 181 


poetry that much greater, for this man who wants to rise from hell to God, as is the 
distance over which they are joined. We believe in a logic that grows in passion as it 
grows in the presence of insolubly rich unknowns.) 

(Ixxiv) 


The next entry in the “Ragioni” is from 1941, from a talk given in Brazil 
where Ungaretti taught in the later 1930s. He now illustrates his point about the 
historical evolution of styles by referring to two apparently antagonistic painters, 
De Chirico and Picasso. Both, he argues have meditated on time, how time has 
changed and grown more difficult to contemplate, now that 


tutto si confonde in un unico piano, precipitandosi contro di noi. Eppure non possediamo 
altre parole se non quelle che ci fornisce la cultura; ma una cultura depauperata da ogni 
sostanza storica, divenuta prodigiosa e spaventosa come, per occhi primitivi, il sole, le 
stelle e la luna, e la nascita a la morte. 
(all is confused in a single plane, crashing down upon us. And yet we possess no words 
other than those the culture provides us; but a culture impoverished of all historical 
substance, become prodigious and frightful as, for primitive eyes, the sun, the stars and 
moon, birth and death. ) 

(Ixxvi) 


In their heroic confrontation with time, these artists stand tall because they 
resist this impoverishment and thus show themselves to be the true progeny of 
Romanticism: 


[L]’uomo, nel Romanticismo pili recente, é alle prese con i mezzi che s’era andato 
foggiando per sottomettersi e disciplinare la natura: é alle prese con i progressi 
rivoluzionari della scienza, col monopolio dell’oro, con il caos d’una erudizione senza 
piu una sicura radice religiosa e senza limiti. 
({MJan in the recent Romanticism is struggling with those means he had steadily shaped 
for dominating and disciplining nature: he is struggling with the revolutionary advances 
of science, with the gold monopoly, with the chaos of an erudition without limits that no 
longer possesses a secure religious basis.) 

(Ixxvil) 


Both Romanticism and its “more recent” manifestation stand “in contrasto 
con il malessere morale palese da quasi due secoli in tutta l’attivita umana” (“in 
contrast to the moral malaise manifest in all human activity over almost two 
centuries” Ixxvii). Romanticism elevated the inspiration and_ religious 
importance of art as a means of connection with the dead. And here once again 
the poet returns to the aesthetic-moral nexus he seems to have been engaged 
with from the start: 


Dico che possa perfettamente ammettersi che il giudizio morale e quello estetico siano, 
come sono, di ordine diverso, e che possa un’opera d’arte essere esteticamente 


182 Thomas E. Peterson 


riprovevole e moralmente meritoria, 0 viceversa; ma dico che del pari non si possa 
fondatamente non rilevare che un’anarchia nelle credenze non possa se non risultare di 
grave discapito ai doveri d’un linguaggio, paralizzandogli la funzione sociale. 

(I’m saying that it’s perfectly admissible that moral justice and aesthetic justice can be of 
different orders, as they are, and that a work of art may be aesthetically reprehensible and 
morally meritorious, or vice versa; but I’m saying that in either case one must 
acknowledge that an anarchy of beliefs can only result in grave detriment to the duties of 
a language, paralyzing its social function.) 


In contrast to such cases as the “stile sinistro e ripulsivo” (“repulsive and 
sinister style” Ixxix) of certain ancient Egyptian artifacts, possessed by 
“Paffanno mistico che guidd la mano dell’artigiano egizio o il sottile vincolo 
sociale, vicino a spezzarsi, che giustifica le sollecitazioni sessuali delle stampe o 
delle miniature del tempo di Casanova” (“the mystic yearning that steered the 
hand of the Egyptian artisan or the tenuous social bond, close to breaking, that 
justifies the sexual solicitations of the prints or miniatures of Casanova’s time” 
Ixxx), Romanticism has attempted to integrate morality and aesthetics and 
transcend the predicament of the individual soul. In line with this view, 


[...] V'artista non si rassegnera mai ad accettare che non gli venga concesso dai tempi di 
considerare lo stile come un fatto di unanimita sociale, ma solo come un fatto personale, 
ma solo come un fatto simbolico nel quale vengano a proiettarsi i tratti distintivi della 
propria coscienza ma solo come |’affermazione della liberta e dell’unicita insopprimibile 
della persona umana. Sara sempre una causa di somma pena per un artista doversi 
rassegnare a operare esclusivamente per fatto personale, anche se, per grazia di Dio, 
un’aura di poesia riscattera sempre la sua fatica e sara sempre il principio pit vero di 
Stile. 
({...] the artist will never resign himself to accepting that the times won’t allow him to 
consider style as a fact of social unanimity, but only as a personal, symbolical fact in 
which are projected the distinctive traits of his own conscience, as the affirmation of 
freedom and the irrepressible uniqueness of the human being. It will always be a cause of 
utmost pain for an artist to have to resign himself to working exclusively as a personal 
fact, even if, by the grace of God, an aura of poetry will redeem his fatigue and always be 
the truest principle of style.) 

(IXxx) 


Ungaretti saw “di quanto fosse pericoloso quel prefiggersi di rispettare 
canoni che dal Vaugelas e dal Cartesio e, peggio che mai, dal Voltaire in poi, 
mettevano la poesia francese a rischio d’isterilirsi nell’accademico — e invece 
la rinnovavano a la salvavano sempre; ma per miracolo” (“how dangerous the 
predetermination to respect canons was, canons which from Vaugelas and 
Descartes and worst of all, from Voltaire on, risked sterilizing French poetry in 
the academic — and instead always revived and saved it; but by a miracle” 
Ixxxix). Arguing against “accademiche determinazioni di specie” (“academic 





The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s “Ragioni d’una poesia” 183 


determinations of type” Ixxxii) and for aesthetic freedom as the only means that 
will guarantee the survival of “il fine, il fine estetico — e insieme fine etico a 
patetico” (“the aim, the esthetic aim — and at once the ethical and pathetic 
aims” Ixxxii) of art, he claims that artists must be free to create without regard 
for rules or conventions, as indeed he had been: “All’artista d’oggi, ripetiamolo, 
poteva essere indifferente e esteticamente occorreva gli fosse indifferente, che 1 
modelli, ai quali si volgeva per consiglio, appartenessero a un’epoca piuttosto 
che ad un’altra” (“Let us say it again: today’s artist was able to be indifferent 
and aesthetically needed to be indifferent, if the models he turned to for advice 
belonged more to one epoch than another” Ixxx-xi). Style had had to vary since 
“il genio umano avendo da identificare a esprimere il segreto dei suoi tempi, lo 
avrebbe dentro di sé trovato in quei termini a non in altri” (“the human genius, 
having to identify and express the secret of its times, had found it within itself in 
those terms and no others” Ixxxii). 

The point concerning stylistic freedom is illustrated by a discussion of a 
common topos in Arabic and Provencal poetry, the talking falcon. Ungaretti 
notes that for the first time, the Portuguese poet Don Denis in the 14th century 
veered away from this convention and chose a parrot instead, a bird that actually 
does speak. This departure is then traced to Tasso’s use of the “pappagallo” in 
Canto 16 of Gerusalemme liberata, a use of wonder predicated on his 
knowledge of “‘l’atroce amarezza dalla quale doveva snodarsi l’esperienza cui i1 
suo secolo si volgeva” (“the atrocious bitterness from which the ongoing 
experience of his century needed to free itself” Ixxxv): 


[...] mostro chiamera I’alata maraviglia, ma restituendo ¢ vero alla parola quasi il suo 
senso latino di portento, di segnale sprigionato dalla virtl misteriosa delle cose, per 
risvegliare |’attenzione o gli affetti degli uomini, e recare in luce una verita, asserendola e 
dandone testimonianza nel medesimo tempo. 
({...] he will call that winged marvel a monster, but in so doing restore to the word its 
Latin sense of portent, of a signal set free from the mysterious virtue of things, in order to 
reawaken the attention or the feelings of men, and to bring to light a truth, by asserting 
and bearing witness to it at the same time.) 

(IXxxv) 


After this philological excavation, Ungaretti recalls a visit to a real 
excavation in Argentina, a “necropolis of Indian antiquities” where he had seen 
a burial amphora disinterred with “a hand with an eye in the palm, signifying 
perhaps that the first poetic sign of humanity had been the graphic image, 
precedent even to the oral sign; or to signify that the hand rapidly obeyed a sure 
eye and that the deceased was perhaps a good archer” (Ixxxvi). The observation 
reminds us of the importance of the senses and the arts in Ungaretti’s work, of 
nature as opposed to the intellect which is overvalued in the West: 


[...] l'artista ha sempre espresso gli istinti comuni dei viventi, la fame e la libidine, gli 


184 Thomas E. Peterson 


immutabili istinti di conservazione e purtroppo insieme di distruzione, ma ha espresso 
anche un suo bisogno religioso di conoscere le ragioni casuali e le ragioni finali del 
vivere, ma ha anche espresso un suo bisogno di sentirsi unito a tutti i suoi morti, e a tutti 
gli scomparsi e a tutta la realta dell’universo oltre la notte dei tempi; ma ha anche 
espresso il maraviglioso piacere che anche una natura desolata é in grado d’offrire. 
({...] the artist has always expressed the common instincts of the living, the hunger and 
the libido, the immutable instincts of preservation and, unfortunately, also of destruction, 
but he has also expressed a religious need to know both the contingent and final reasons 
for living; he has also expressed his need to feel united with all of his dead, and all those 
who have died and with the entire reality of the universe beyond the night of time; he has 
also expressed the marvelous pleasure that even a desolate nature is able to offer.) 
(Ixxxvii) 


Once again Ungaretti turns to Leopardi to illustrate his point: 


Leopardi si rende tuttavia conto, ed é il solo Italiano a rendersene conto con chiarezza 
sino all’avvento della poesia contemporanea, che una frattura era avvenuta nella mente 
dell’uomo. L’accettazione della condizione umana nei suoi limiti di tempo e di spazio, 
vale a dire nei suoi limiti materiali e logici, ormai é ritenuta come formante antinomia 
con l’aspirazione innata dell’uomo alla liberta e alla poesia. 
(Leopardi realizes nevertheless, and he is the only Italian to realize it clearly until the 
advent of contemporary poetry, that a fracture had occurred in the mind of man. The 
acceptance of the human condition in its limits of time and space, that is, in its material 
and logical limits, is by now considered in a formative antinomy with the innate 
aspiration of man to freedom and poetry.) 

(xc) 


Leopardi’s “irony” in the face of the French philosophes should not be 
confused with an abdication of the oneiric and religious purpose of poetry. The 
language of poetry is essential but approximate, a medium for the benefit of 
those who may possess it without understanding it. This is the basis of the 
“anguish” reflected in Leopardi’s poetic language, in his understanding of 
duration: “La durata la fa valere nelle immagini, per antitesi: un tempo di vigore 
opposto a un tempo d’agonia; il marchio lacerante d’uno slancio opposto al 
silenzio arido. (‘Duration gives it value in the imagery, by antithesis: a time of 
vigor opposed to one of agony; the cutting mark of a surge opposed to the arid 
silence” xcl). 

The closing section of the “Ragioni” concerns the value of recitation and 
formal eloquence as means of extending beyond the literal or conventional 
reading of texts. Both the examples concern Racine. The first relates an 
experience of Saint-John Perse: 


Perse ci parla d’una Esther che ebbe una volta invito ad ascoltare in un isolotto della 
Polinesa. Alcune bimbe Tonga che non capivano un ette della lingua nella quale erano 
state scelte a declamare, avevano imparato quel testo — lungo una settimana di pazienti 


The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s ““Ragioni d'una poesia” 185 


ripetizioni per bocca d’una vecchissima monaca francese — come un testo sacro. Racine 
non sembro mai meno tradito a Perse, né “mai capito meglio il miracolo della lingua 
francese, il cui potere magico, il suo stesso genio per le analisi precise, spesso offusca.” 
(Perse tells us of an Esther he had once been invited to hear recited on a Polynesian 
island. Some Tongan children who understood nothing of the language in which they had 
been selected to speak, had learned that text — during a week of patient repetitions 
mouthed by a very old French nun — like a sacred text. To Perse, Racine never seemed 
less betrayed, nor was “the miracle of the French language, whose magic power, whose 
own genius for precise analysis, often confuses, ever better understood.”) 

(xcili) 


The second example concerns a letter from Racine himself that takes issue 
with “l’extréme impertinence de M. Perrault, qui avance que le tour des paroles 
ne fait rien pour |’éloquence, et qu’on ne doit regarder qu’au sens; et c’est 
pourquoi il prétend qu’on peut mieux juger d’un auteur par son traducteur, 
quelque mauvais qu’il soit, que par la lecture de l’auteur méme” (“the extreme 
impertinence of M. Perrault, who posits that the turn of a word does nothing for 
eloquence, and that one should consider that a writer is better judged by his 
translator, no matter how bad he might be, than by reading the author himself” 
xciv). Racine and Ungaretti see the absurdity of this claim. Here once again, 
Ungaretti argues for the apotropaic power of poetry: 


Certo, la vera poesia si presenta innanzi tutto a noi nella sua segretezza. E sempre 
accaduto cosi. Pit giungiamo a trasferire la nostra emozione e la novita delle nostre 
visioni nei vocaboli, e pit. i vocaboli giungono a velarsi d’una musica che sara la prima 
rivelazione della loro profondita poetica oltre ogni limite di significato. 
(Of course, true poetry is presented to all of us in its secrecy. It has always happened that 
way. We manage to transfer more of our emotion and the novelty of our visions into 
words, and the words manage to veil themselves in a music that will be the first 
revelation of their poetic depth beyond any limit of meaning.) 

(xclv) 


Having made his point about the Renaissance and Baroque patrimony, first 
with Tasso and then with Racine, Ungaretti now returns in conclusion to his poet 
of choice: 


[...] per il Leopardi, o per ogni Romantico, le cose erano infinitamente pit gravi, il 
vocabolo essendo stato ridotto al suo semplice valore filologico di durata, essendo stato 
crudelmente denudato, a non potendosi pit: che con eccesso drammatico ricondurlo alla 
sua funzione poetica, funzione che nel secondo periodo della sua attivita, sara da 
Leopardi, nel Dialogo di Timandro a di Eleandro delle Operette Morali nel seguente 
modo fissato: “Se alcun libro morale potesse giovare, io penso che gioverebbero 
massimamente i poetici: dico poetici, prendendo questo vocabolo largamente, cioé libri 
destinati a muovere l’immaginazione; e intendo non meno di prose che di versi. Ora io fo 
poca stima di quella poesia che, letta e meditata, non lascia al lettore nell’animo un tal 


186 Thomas E. Peterson 


sentimento nobile, che per mezz’ora, gl’impedisca di ammettere un pensier vile, e di fare 
un’azione indegna.” L’ispirazione era cosi ricondotta alla sua causa profonda, causa 
poetica e morale, e se dilatava 1 vocaboli per effetti indefinibili, per effetti estetici, quegli 
effetti tali non potevano essere, se non erano indotti dalla loro causa segreta, 
inconoscibile, a produrre una purificazione dell’anima. 
({...] for Leopardi, or for any Romantic, things were infinitely more serious, the word 
having been reduced to its simple philological value of duration, having been cruelly 
stripped, and no longer able to recover its poetic function save by dramatic excess; in the 
second half of his activity, in the Dialogue of Timandor and Eleander in the Operetti 
Morali, Leopardi determines this function as follows: ‘If any moral book could be of use, 
I think the poetical ones would be of the most use: I say poetical, using this term broadly, 
books, that is, destined to move the imagination; and I mean prose no less than poetry. 
Now I have little respect for that poetry which, read and meditated on, doesn’t leave in 
the reader’s spirit a noble sentiment such that for half an hour the admission of an ignoble 
thought or completion of an unworthy action is impossible.’ Inspiration was thus brought 
back to its deep cause, a poetic and moral cause, and if it stretched the words for 
unknown reasons, for aesthetic reasons, those reasons could only be so if induced by their 
secret, unknowable cause to produce a purification of the soul.) 

(XCiv-V) 
In this return to Leopardi, Ungaretti confirms and strengthens his earlier point 
about the desirability of linking aesthetic justice and moral justice. 

It is this same idea of moral harmony — and not simply “imitative 
harmony” — that unifies the “Ragioni.” The technique of temporal stratification 
of the work is effective in revealing the aesthetic, moral, and linguistic changes 
in the author over several decades, even as it constitutes a singular poetic 
memorial. The poet’s understanding of history is seen to be founded on the 
Bergsonian concept of duration (which was already present in Vico): thus the 
attention paid to primitive cultures and children, to the mythical heritages of 
Provence and Egypt, to the mutual dependency of song and measure, to the 
baroque sense of wonder, and so forth. Ungaretti’s claim that the eternality of art 
objects lies in their confrontation of mystery depends on a view of creative 
process that does not risk local assessments (one looks in vain for discussions of 
his contemporaries, of Novecentismo or ermetismo). The local is quite simply 
the other pole of the cosmic. Similarly, his theory of the image is based on the 
mutability of language, and the beauty of language’s indeterminate relation to 
the religious aspirations of man. There is a constant concern in the “Ragioni” for 
the themes of love, death, memory, and the protean engagement with the 
metahistorical forms of Italian song. Ungaretti’s world view, like those of 
Petrarch, Tasso, or Leopardi, is imbued with an acute and even tragic sense of 
human suffering, and beyond it the liberating conviction that it is in the desire 
for solace of the human soul that all true poetry is born. 


University of Georgia 


The Ethics and Pathos of Ungaretti’s “‘Ragioni d’una poesia” 187 
Works Cited 


Auerbach, Erich. Scenes from the Drama of European Literature. Gloucester, Ma.: Peter 
Smith, 1973. 
Contini, Gianfranco. Esercizi di lettura. Torino: Einaudi, 1974. 
Eliot, T. S. Four Quartets. New York: Harcourt, Brace, and World, 1943. 
Fortini, Franco. / poeti del Novecento. Roma: Laterza, 1977. 
Huizinga, Johan. /n the Shadow of Tomorrow. New Y ork: Norton, 1936. 
Luzi, Mario. Discorso naturale. Milano: Garzanti, 1984. 
Mallarmé, Stéphane. Collected Poems. Trans. and comm. Henry Weinfield. Berkeley: U 
of California P, 1994. 
Pasolini, Pier Paolo. “La nuova allegria di Ungaretti.” // portico della morte. Ed. Cesare 
Segre. Roma: Associazione “Fondo Pier Paolo Pasolini,” 1988. 65-69. 
. Passione e ideologia. Milano: Garzanti, 1960. 
Ungaretti, Giuseppe. Vita d’un uomo. Ed. Leone Piccioni. Milano: Mondadori, 1969. 
. Vita d’un uomo. Saggi e interventi. Ed. Mario Diacono and Luciano Rebay. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1974. 





Nicoletta Pireddu 





Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and 
Daniele Del Giudice' 


1. Questions Concerning Technology 

“I hope to die before I live in a world that will only speak reason” (Serres 4). 
With this wish, formulated almost half a century after C. P. Snow’s seminal 
essay on The Two Cultures, Michel Serres does not only confirm that the 
cleavage between the literary and the scientific world is still wide open. It also 
acknowledges the allegedly “social, discursive, and [...] ideological victory” (19) 
of rationality and exactitude over metaphors and dreams, which, Serres claims, 
have been reduced to “the return of what has been repressed, the language of 
defeat” (19). 

To be sure, the death that Serres expresses as a hypothesis, conjuring up a 
scenario that in his view is imminent but against which it is still possible to act 
before the exact sciences wipe out the endangered heritage of humanistic culture 
(3), was for its part already realized by John the Savage in Aldous Huxley’s 
Brave New World, who preferred death to a survival in an existence condensing 
all the aberrations of an absolute rational control. Yet despite the extreme 
solution that his character chooses as the only way out of the inexorable tyranny 
of cold ratio made praxis, Huxley himself, in his essay Literature and science, 
continues to hope for a collaboration between “men of letters and men of 
science” (118). Convinced that, if taken separately, the “world of concepts and 
the multitudinous abyss of immediate experience” (39), the “simplified, 
jargonized purity of scientific discourse and the magical, many-meaninged purity 
of literature” (38-9), are equally inadequate to cope with “the ever-expanding 
regions of the unknown” (118), Huxley ultimately urges for a union of the 
rational and the aesthetic that resonates in Serres’s argument. Serres’s own way 
of dissipating the specter of the dystopian Huxleyan brave new world is 


' To Catherine, Christina, Dallas, Felicia, Kimberley, Lauren, Leonor (Georgetown 
University Spring 2001), Deirdre, Francesca, Joaquim, Maryam, Rifat, Roberto 
(Georgetown University Fall 1998), Diana, Diego, Josephine, Lorrie, Martha (Duke 
University Spring 1997), for having crossed with me the bridge between the “two 
cultures.” A different version of this paper titled “The Future of Futurism: The Ethical 
Legacy of the Machine” was presented as the Italian plenary talk at the 54" Kentucky 
Foreign Language Conference (Lexington, April 21, 2001). I am grateful to Dr. Marina 
Natale for her organization of the event. 

Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


190 Nicoletta Pireddu 


precisely an integration of “the new world of scientists” (Serres 34) with “the 
storytelling of time immemorial” (34) through a “third approach to knowledge” 
(34) that, instead of leaving “algorithmic ratiocination and literary relashings 
completely segregated” (34), rather combines “the poem and the theorem [...], 
experimentation and experience” (34). 

Yet if, as Serres claims, science has “stolen reason” (19), assimilated 
enlightenment itself, usurped “the metaphors of religious revelation [and] of 
mystical discourse” (19), science has also succeeded in driving back other 
cognitive domains into obscurity and irrationality by making reason operational 
through an alliance with technology, that is, by transforming its abstract 
principles into techniques that adopt science’s objectivity and factual rightness to 
impose order and control over human reality. Therefore, it is not possible to 
account for and to overcome the cleavage between science and non-science 
without considering the nature and the role played by technology as the practical 
implementation of reason in science’s allegedly successful imposition of its 
singular cultural type. 

Nevertheless Heidegger reminds us that, despite the mutual dependence of 
modern technology and modern science and their joint objectification, ordering 
and mastering of reality, “the essence of technology is by no means anything 
technological” (“Question” 4), that is, it has nothing to do, according to 
Heidegger, with the rational, instrumental or mechanical underpinnings that we 
usually associate with it. Springing from the Greek fechné, technology preserves 
a link with the technical skills of craftsmanship but also, according to Heidegger, 
with “the arts of the mind and the fine arts” (13), that is, with a making that will 
ultimately lose the servile implications of simple manufacturing and rather 
designate the activity of art as poiesis, as “the bringing-forth of the true into the 
beautiful” (34). At the same time, Heidegger, drawing from Aristotle (Ethics 
207-08), calls attention to the closeness of techné to epistémé, hence to a form of 
knowledge and understanding distinguished from the pure and simple empirical 
ability, and corresponding to “opening up” and “revealing” (13). It is this double 
link with creativity and reasoning beyond mere functionality that leads 
Heidegger to conclude that technology is the revelation of truth not as exactness 
but as aletheia, as the mystery of unconcealment (13). 

Can the Heideggerian idea of technology as techné, partaking of both art 
and science, of the poetical and the cognitive, of beauty and truth, constitute that 
third approach, that middle ground which, from Snow to Serres, seems to be 
invoked as a way out of the Manichean disciplinary reality of our time? The 
fracture that Heidegger emphasizes between the ancient roots of technology in 
poiesis and its modern development as a “machine-powered” (13) activity that 
threatens the energy of nature seems to render this hypothesis not feasible within 
the perspective of a present in which the only form of revealing that technology 
can promote is that of “[rJegulating and securing” (16). This control and 








Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 191 


entrapment of nature and of things do not only eliminate the possibility of techné 
as human handiwork (18). More subtly, modern technology cannot even be 
considered a “human doing” (19) according to Heidegger because it “gathers 
man into ordering” (19), that is, it absorbs and manipulates man by making him 
part of the very mechanism of order and objectification that “reveals the real as 
standing reserve” (21).* Sustained by a false illusion of domination and control, 
man in fact loses himself precisely in the revealing of technology as ordering 
imposed by the machine: today “nowhere does man any longer encounter 
himself, i.e., his essence” (27). 

Within the framework of the question of the role of technology in the “two 
cultures” debate, Primo Levi’s La chiave a stella and Daniele Del Giudice’s 
Atlante occidentale are particularly significant. At the apex of the modern 
civilization of machines and industries, they do not simply show us, in line with 
Heidegger, that technology is far from being “something neutral” (4), that is, a 
self-referential object that can be approachable and explainable through an 
instrumental and functional analysis. More subtly, by representing technology 
not merely as a practical transposition of science’s rational effectiveness but also 
as the “productive unconscious” (Serres 19) of science, its imaginative and 
poetical side, they also support Heidegger’s speculation that precisely in the all- 
encompassing technological dimension of the present world, the “poetic 
revealing” (35) of art as poiesis may revive the essence of technology inherent to 
the Greek fechné. Precisely starting from the premise that technology does not 
simply designate an instrumental, functional and pragmatic order (Miquel and 
Ménard 17) independent of other domains of experience, Levi’s and Del 
Giudice’s novels approach technology as a veritable symbolic system, hence 
originally endowed with, and in its turn producing, meaning and value, instead of 
being determined by purely technical criteria. 

While these two works are obviously not the first ones in which technology 
affirms itself not so much outside the realm of value but rather as value itself 
(Miquel and Ménard 12), their paramount importance and originality lies in the 
way in which they codify technology, that is, in the specific symbolic universe 
and value system that technology embodies and implements. To be sure, already 
at the outset of the 20" century, Italian literature had eloquently shown how 
technology as a symbolic system can turn into a veritable myth. The Futurist cult 


? Heidegger further emphasizes the gap between “making” in modern technology and in 
art, while simultaneously underlining a certain affinity in terminology, by calling 
attention to the difference between Ge-stellen — “entraming™ as the technological mode 
of producing and presenting, based on a cause-and-effect logic that “entraps nature as a 
calculable coherence of forces” (21) — and Dar-stellen — “representation” as the poietic 
form of production and presentation in terms of creation and bringing forth. 
Technological “enframing,” according to Heidegger, blocks representation and hence 
destroys “the mystery of all revealing, i.e. of truth” (33) as aletheia. 


192 Nicoletta Pireddu 


of the machine, and, even earlier, Mario Morasso’s celebration of the alliance of 
beauty and speed in the automobile, had triumphantly promoted a marriage of 
science and art that, as it generated this new weapon (La nuova arma), it also 
made the individual a victim of two opposite yet coinciding extremes, namely, 
the dehumanizing self-empowerment of Morasso’s superhuman ‘“egoarchia” 
(Uomini e idee) and the total abolition of human qualities in Marinetti’s 
mechanical man.’ And if Pirandello nostalgically mourns art as poiesis exposing 
through an alienated Serafino Gubbio how the machine has now reduced the 
creative faculty to mere fechné in its most detrimental sense of instrumental 
activity, and annihilated individuality altogether, it could be argued that even the 
more recent debate on literature and industry, despite its commitment to a 
constructive integration of the technological world within the aesthetic realm, 
has not completely transcended the standpoint of a denunciation of the loss of 
creativity and of human alienation caused by the industrial reality (Scalia, “Dalla 
natura all’industria’’). 

For their part, La chiave a stella and Atlante occidentale, written after the 
wave of defensive attempts at unmasking and demythifying the Futurist myth of 
mechanization, and set in a technological world that has by now accepted the 
Benjaminian loss of the aura (Benjamin, “Work of Art”) as an ordinary, 
everyday reality, reformulate the question of the machine in a less polemical and 
more positive way, reintroducing the ethical question of otherness in and 
through the technological object. Not only do they underscore the ethical 
implications of the phenomenon of the machine. They also treat the machine as 
an ethical device itself, as an instrument and a mechanism for the creation of an 
ethical subject and an ethical space. Their endorsement of technology as techné 
in the Heideggerian sense hence recuperates the essence of the individual 
allegedly eclipsed by modern technology, and even leads them beyond the 
Heideggerian ontological perspective of being as sameness and singularity. In 
different ways and to different extents, as we will see, Levi and Del Giudice 
underscore the need for a dialogic, interhuman dynamics consubstantial to the 
practical domain of acting and making conceived as the meeting point of 
functionality and aestheticization. 


2. “ogni lavoro é come il primo amore”: The Crafting of Levi’s Passionate 
Ulysses 

In the Homeric Odysseus, bound impotently to the mast of his ship while the 
Sirens sing their alluring promise of happiness and pleasure, unheard by his ear- 
plugged oarsmen, Horkheimer and Adorno find an allegorical prefiguration of 
what for them constitutes “the dialectic of enlightenment” (Dialectic 34), 


> For an exhaustive treatment of the myth of the machine in early 20""-century Italian 
literature see Tessari’s monographic study, // mito della macchina. 


Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 193 


namely, an entanglement of “myth, domination, and labor” (32) that makes the 
Western bourgeois cult of progress inseparable from a regression to a barbaric 
stage of civilization. Odysseus is the “technically enlightened man” (59), 
dominator and self-dominating, who recognizes the enthralling call of desire and 
of the aesthetic but outwits it by controlling the senses with the power of the 
intellect, and by imposing to his subaltern the same renunciation. For 
Horkheimer and Adorno, Odysseus hence embodies the impoverishment and the 
delusive mythology brought about by the victory of ratio and practice over 
physical nature at the price of the sacrifice — be it imposed or self-imposed — 
of desire and dreams. As the extreme result of the power of bourgeois progress 
— hence, for Horkheimer and Adorno, the most sophisticated instrument of 
domination and self-deception — the machine represses instincts and atrophies 
imagination while it eases life (35); yet, significantly, this obliteration of the 
experience of the senses does not so much translate into a refinement of the 
intellect as, rather, into alienation of thought itself. 

What tightens even more the tangle of enlightenment and myth, according to 
Horkheimer and Adorno, is the all-encompassing nature of the impoverishment 
and disablement of the individual and of individuality in the self-deceiving 
civilization of the machine: the conversion of human qualities into functions 
(36), the “total schematization” (35) of men and their reduction to “mere species 
beings, exactly like one another through isolation in the forcibly united 
collectivity” (36), the “total” (36) quality of this manipulating and leveling 
society “which embraces all relations and emotions” (36) in all social conditions 
and domains of experience. Precisely this generalized impotence of both worker 
and ruler in industrial society seems to reproduce the inevitability of the ancient 
Fate (37), the deus-ex-machina of the mythological world that the enlightenment 
believes it has surpassed but which in fact it reinstates with its “abandonment of 
thought” (41) and its reification through ‘mathematics, machines and 
organization” (41). 

However, precisely by starting from the premises denounced by Dialectic of 
Enlightenment and by reformulating motifs that originally sustained the Futurist 
technological myth, the modern Ulysses in Levi’s La chiave a stella tries to offer 
an answer to the disenchantment of the civilization of the machine. With an 
ironic twist of the bourgeois enlightenment condition as exposed in the Adornian 
critique, in the technical world of La chiave a stella the wish can be and indeed 
is “the father to the thought” (Horkheimer and Adorno 57), and both converge 
into praxis, in a re-humanizing coincidence of reason and myth, of work and 
work of art. The adventurous wanderings told to an anonymous narrator in this 
“sort of contemporary Odyssey” (Stajano 183), as Levi’s novel has been defined, 
are those of the technician Faussone, a rigger who, with his wrench, does not 
only assemble cranes and metal towers diffusing instrumental knowledge to the 
remotest places on earth but also infuses beauty and an affective dimension into 


194 Nicoletta Pireddu 


that technical and allegedly disaffected world. 

Despite his “‘faccia seria, poco mobile e poco espressiva” (Levi, Chiave 3), 
it is not so much the spirit of rigor and functionality as the appeal of pleasure and 
happiness that is embedded in his first name, Libertino, a reference not only to 
freedom (as his father had originally meant, when he tried to call him Libero in 
defiance of the Fascist regime) but above all to a sort of hedonism and 
sensuousness, although he denies that it is his specialty or his aim (82). Libertino 
Faussone is indeed “uno di quelli che il suo mestiere gli piace” (142), as he 
proclaims with his faulty Italian, and, in particular, one who jealously defends 
and proudly extols his “gusto del lavoro” (40), who treats the day of the 
inspection of a crane “un po’ come una festa” (143), for which he prepares with 
a nice clean shave, brilliantine on his hair, and an elegant jacket. And, 
significantly, precisely with his nomen, which is also an omen of his emotional 
approach to the technological object, Levi’s character reconfigures the alienating 
experience of his Pirandellian antecedent, condemned to “girar la manovella” 
(Quaderni 5) as a servant to a monstruous and voracious machine that devours 
human life. Libertino, whose name mimetically alludes to Pirandello’s 
“Serafino,” not accidentally repeats the gesture of the cinematographic operator 
when, still a child, he spends his afternoons in his father’s workshop “a girargli 
la manovella della forgia” (Chiave 83). Yet he transforms Gubbio’s seraphic 
passivity into a revivifying and passionate bond with the mechanical domain that 
in his case rather saves him from alienation. 

Indeed, the novel as a whole exposes a wide range of feelings and sensual 
experiences that Libertino cultivates in his relationship between body and 
machine, from childlike fondness to parental love to romantic passion. Hence a 
metal tower about to be assembled instills in him the emotion of seeing it grow 
day by day, like “un bambino ancora da nascere, quando é ancora nella pancia di 
sua mamma” (11). With a sort of parental tenderness that shades off into boyish 
affection made more naive by his simple and incorrect Italian, he avows the 
pleasure of paying a visit to a job he has completed, “come si fa con i parenti di 
eta, e come faceva mio padre con i suoi lambicchi; cosi, se una festa non ho 
niente di meglio da fare, prendo su e vado” (132). And the same emotional bond 
makes him empathize with a pipe which “‘doveva essere ben malata” (17), suffer 
for the malfunctioning of a crane “come una donna incinta che le nasca un figlio 
storto o deficiente” (145), or mourn for the collapse of a bridge ““come quando 
muore una persona” (121). Every new job for Faussone is “come il primo 
amore” (116) and each negative outcome like a failed love-story, “come quando 
vuoi bene a una ragazza, e lei ti pianta da un giorno all’altro e tu non sai perché, 
e soffri, non solo perché hai perso la ragazza, ma anche la fiducia” (125). And, 
to be sure, Faussone’s attraction to the aesthetic side of the job is no less evident: 
it is the beauty of perfection, as a result of a precision in the observation of the 
rules of the job, that makes the final product a work of art on which Faussone 


Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 195 


claims authorship and paternity. Just as “l’inossidabile é un gran bel materiale” 
(14) and a metal tower hanging from a crane offers him a “bello spettacolo” (13), 
any material work well planned and accomplished with style, to which Faussone 
is unflinchingly committed (73), seems to possess an internal force that makes it 
come out “bella per conto suo” (121), endowing it with a sort of aesthetic 
purposiveness that assimilates the shaping of mechanical matter to an artefact, a 
unique piece created by an independent faber, who puts his signature on it upon 
completion (66). 

It is precisely by leading technology back to its aesthetic and poietical roots 
that La Chiave a stella can be said to transcend the aggressively heroic vision of 
the machine offered by Futurism. Significantly, it is Marinetti’s “amore crescente 
per la materia" (qtd. in Tessari 233) in an industrial present — a love that is 
simultaneously a challenge to matter — that resonates in Faussone’s first love for 
his material accomplishments and for the strife with iron as a chance to 
“conoscere la materia ed a tenerle testa” (Levi, Chiave 52). However, the 
eroticization that propels the Futurist will to penetrate and know the “bella 
macchina d’acciaio” (Marinetti 298) “dal cuore ardente e pronto” (298), glowing 
with “volutta” beneath the man’s “‘carezza lubrificante” (298), and the “bellezza 
meccanica” (298) generated by the physical intercourse with the engine after 
severing the link between "Donna e [...] Bellezza” (297), turn into a sentimental 
attachment to the mechanical creation in the framework of a recuperation of the 
natural and biological over the artificial. On the one hand, to be sure, no less 
than in La chiave a stella the Futurist manifestos dramatize “i capricci, le 
impazienze e le malattie dell’acciaio e del rame” (Marinetti 99), metals which 
seem to have “una personalita, un’anima, una volonta” (298) just like Faussone’s 
steel and copper. And Faussone’s paternal care for his iron creature is already 
present in Marinetti’s reference to the builder of the machine as "suo padre” 
(298). On the other hand, however, Marinetti’s anthropomorphization of matter 
and of the machine goes hand in hand with, and is even functional to, the 
ultimate mechanization of the individual, through the “entusiastica imitazione 
dell’elettricita e della macchina” (99) while, through Faussone, Levi rather 
humanizes technology. Faussone overturns the Futurist dream of an integral 
antihumanism (Tessari 254) — embodied by the “tipo non umano e meccanico” 
(Marinetti 299) made of interchangeable components, not simply alienated by 
the machine but becoming machine itself — into the pathetic fallacy of bridges 
and cranes endowed with a body and a soul, sometimes happy, sometimes sick, 
in a sort of pan-humanism. 

The same hypostatization of iron that inspires Marinetti to extol “la 
precisione felice degl’ingranaggi e dei pensieri bene oliati” (99) and Faussone 
confidently to claim, apparently in the same vein, that everything goes wrong 
whenever “le cose di ferro diventano cose di carta” (147) thus leads in fact to 
two quite divergent, if not opposite, standpoints. The Futurist aspiration to 


196 Nicoletta Pireddu 


freedom through abolition of work becomes, in La chiave a stella, freedom 
through the exercise of work, and even freedom as work, an equation 
authenticated by the rigger himself. Faussone’s independence protects him 
precisely from the Futurist standardization of the operaio, who in Marinetti’s 
writings appears far less as a concrete individual with needs and feelings than as 
a violent automaton programmed to exert violence against tradition so as to 
instate the reign of the city-factory. 

The most effective way in which La chiave a stella offsets this absolute 
alienation of the worker as a mechanical apparatus, harmoniously participating in 
the pulsating “solidarieta dei motori preoccupati, zelanti e ordinati” (Marinetti 
100) is through a veritable thought of the hand, as a noble and creative activity 
that, born of technology itself, turns technology into craftsmanship. The hand 
detaches technology from the cold exactness of abstract scientific rules as much 
as from the industrial truth through which the intellectuals of // Menabo wanted 
to highlight the difference “tra l'uomo produttore e l’uomo nella produzione, tra 
homo faber e luomo legato al finalismo produttivistico” (Scalia 105) and 
denounce the “falsa ‘umanizzazione’ del macchinismo” (106) and the “‘falsa 
‘formalizzazione’ scientifico-tecnica dell’ umanita produttiva” (106). 

Levi’s attention to the almost sacred role of the hand can acquire further light 
if considered in relation with Heidegger’s discussion of the work of the hand as a 
way of opposing a technological reduction of human dealings and expressions to 
“empty busywork” (What Is Called Thinking 15), just as it transcends the profanity 
of a notion of thought as conceptual grasping and manipulation, of knowledge as 
technical productivity in its modern, objectifying sense. For its part, the thought of 
the hand attempts to restore humanism by eluding the yoke of intellectual 
serviceability through a recuperation of a cognitive transmission that does not 
“comprehend” in the sense of “taking hold.” Precisely within the framework of the 
hand and of handicraft Heidegger sees the possibility of a dialogue between 
thinking and poetry. As he detaches thinking from the mechanical intellectual work 
of modern science and technology, Heidegger brings its essence closer to that 
“fateful gift of truth” (Thinking 19), namely, beauty. Beauty—for Heidegger the 
truth of the poetic word—offers a kind of non-alienated dimension prior to the 
cleavage between a speculative and rational /ogos and the imagination and emotion 
of pathos—a dimension that thinking and poetry share, as manifestations of the 
word as craft, hence as fechné. 

If, along the same line, in his Dia/logo with Tullio Regge, Levi himself 
praises the activity of the hand as a noble return to origins neglected by an 
excessive attention to the brain (25), the characters in La chiave a stella are no 
less charmed by and committed to manual activity as a way of recuperating the 
human substratum of everyday life. Just as the cables of Faussone’s metal towers 
‘‘a vederli dal basso sembrano fili da cucire” (134), the chemist-writer defines his 
two jobs through the metaphor of sewing, his task being that of “cucire insieme 


Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 197 


lunghe molecole” (148-49) as well as of “cucire insieme parole e idee” (149). 
The human hand that Futurism triumphantly merges with the metal of the 
machine to which it is subdued, and that Pirandello renders tragically 
mechanical, is here revitalized and revitalizing in its turn. Indeed, through 
Faussone’s “mani d’oro [...] lunghe, solide, veloci, molto piu espressive del suo 
viso” (Chiave 162), the narrator validates what for him is the Darwinian 
hypothesis “sulla mano dell’artefice che, fabbricando strumenti e curvando la 
materia, ha tratto dal torpore il cervello umano, e che ancora lo guida stimola e 
tira come fa il cane col padrone cieco” (163). In the conversations between 
Faussone and the narrator this intellectual stimulation through thinking “con le 
mani” (52) translates into veritable poiesis, establishing a relationship between 
artigianato and arte that functions in both directions: the artisan is an artist, and 
the artist is an artisan. 

The fact that the narrator is both a writer and a chemist (an obvious alter 
ego of Levi himself) hence results particularly significant in this context. In his 
exchanges with Faussone, the narrator not only emphasizes the imaginative side 
of the mestiere of rigger and chemist: he also talks about his aesthetic activity as 
a mestiere, hence bringing the three realms of technology, science, and art under 
the aegis of a manual activity that infuses an almost magical spirituality to the act 
of making. In Faussone’s declaration, “io l’anima ce la metto in tutti i lavori” 
(40) as well as in the narrator’s description of enamels as “una razza permalosa” 
(176) and in their resemblance to human beings for their tricks and pretences 
(171), we can hence see signs of a re-fetishization of work and of technology that 
the novel as a whole expresses through a mythopoietic and animistic impulse 
once again no less pervasive in the Futurist mechanical vitalism. Here, however, 
it aims at teaching “a essere interi” (52), at “dare la pienezza” (52) to the 
individual. 

Nevertheless, how can La chiave a stella save itself from the risk of a 
reversed ideology with respect to an isolated, standardized and de-humanized 
homo technologicus? Cannot Levi’s almost idyllic recuperation of an 
unmediated relationship between Aumanitas and techné result in an equally 
totalizing manifesto? With the resurrection of the “I” that the Futurist machine 
murdered together with the moonshine, and that Pirandello mourned with his 
mute and impassive cinematographic operator, Levi also reintroduces the 
unavoidable presence of the “‘you,” of an “other” who shares the experience of 
technology and who, by acting as an interlocutor, empathizes with the 
protagonist but also relativizes his conquests. It is precisely in the dialogical 
dimension that La chiave a stella deploys the ethical implications of the 
connection between ratio and aisthesis, technology and art. 

Just as Levi the chemist-writer looks for “‘ponti che uniscono (0 dovrebbero 
unire) la cultura scientifica con quella letteraria scavalcando un crepaccio che mi 
é sempre sembrato assurdo” (L’altrui mestiere 585), Faussone the technician 


198 Nicoletta Pireddu 


reiterates in a more down-to-earth way that 


i ponti é il pit’ bel lavoro che sia: perché si € sicuri che non ne viene del male a nessuno, 
anzi del bene, perché sui ponti passano le strade e senza le strade saremmo ancora come i 
selvaggi; insomma perché i ponti sono come I’incontrario delle frontiere e le frontiere é 


dove nascono le guerre.” 
(Levi, Chiave 106-07) 


Faussone’s guileless pronouncement in favor of peaceful encounters and 
connections echoes the need, which the novel articulates with its dialogical 
structure, to put an end to the standardization and abstract universalization of the 
individual, and to recuperate not only the specificity of the self but also the 
uniqueness and singularity of “the other.” The dialogue between the scientific 
and the literary world that the two characters set up through their exchanges, 
while preserving the autonomy of each domain, conveys the parallel attempt to 
conceive of, and to represent, a relationship between Same and Other able to 
respect the irreducible nature of the alterity to which each one is exposed. In this 
way Levi goes beyond the Heideggerian ontological perspective, precisely 
because he does not accept a mode of existence that revolves exclusively around 
a self-reflexive concept of being, only responsible to and for itself, and rather 
endorses an ethics of responsibility founded upon an unavoidable relationship 
with the other. 

While the narrator seems to endorse the rigger’s assimilation of know-how, 
reason, pleasure, freedom, and love, he also tries to expose Faussone to the 
dynamics of a realm like that of art, where, unlike in rigging, the process of 
making, of poiesis, cannot be monitored by “un equivalente affidabile della 
squadra e del filo a piombo” (47), nor is it possible to establish that its product is 
“in bolla d’aria” (47). Therefore, the apparent higher freedom that the literary 
faber seems to enjoy with respect to the material constraints of Faussone’s 
technical activity entails in fact equally higher risks for the production as well as 
for the reception of the artifact. If an author writes silly or useless things, either 
intentionally or unwittingly, “se ne accorge chi legge, quando ormai € troppo 
tardi, e allora si mette male: anche perché quella pagina é opera tua e solo tua, 
non hai scuse né pretesti, ne rispondi appieno” (47).’ While, in and of itself, 
Faussone’s fantasy of signing his mechanical product may seem dictated by self- 
complacency for the beauty of the technician’s output, once we connect it with 
the narrator’s caveats, it acquires a different value. Both the iron and the paper 
product call their respective makers to the duty (and not only to the pride) of 


* For a discussion of the literary author’s responsibility and answerability see Attridge. 
For a treatment of the communicative value of the act of writing and of its rules in La 
chiave a stella see Segre and Verdenelli. 


Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 199 


authorship as paternity. Contrary to Barthes’s conception of the fext as an 
anonymous and orphan production (“From work to text”), what La chiave a 
stella upholds here is rather the accountability of the manufacturer — of the 
technician of metal structures as well as of chains of words — for the work, 
taken precisely as an activity and an object that maintain a bond with the origin 
of its generating process. 

This bond, to be sure, is nourished by the maker’s fondness for his creature, 
as the narrator claims, supporting Faussone’s own feelings: 


[...] dopo finita, la riguardi e pensi che forse vivra pil a lungo di te, e forse servira a 
qualcuno che tu non conosci e che non ti conosce. Magari potrai tornare a guardarla da 
vecchio, e ti sembra bella, e non importa poi tanto se sembra bella solo a te, e puoi dire a 
te stesso “forse un altro non ci sarebbe riuscito.” 

(12) 


Yet this work is also based upon the maker’s answerability for his manipulation 
of matter. The intervention of the narrator as writer hence opens up the precision 
of the mechanical world to the question of ethics by subsuming the category of 
“work” as “labor” under the category of “work” as “work of art” considered in 
Emmanuel Lévinas’s sense of ethical work, namely, a gesture or event that 
structures the subject as always already responsible to the Other, prior to logic, 
moral duty, and intentionality: 


The responsibility for the other can not have begun in my commitment, in my decision. 
The unlimited responsibility in which I find myself comes from the hither side of my 
freedom, from a “prior to every memory,” an “ulterior to every accomplishment,” from 
the non-present par excellence, the non-original, the anarchical, prior to or beyond 


essence. 
(Otherwise 10) 


We could say that the relationship between Faussone and the narrator determines 
a shift from the principle of totality, guaranteed by a knowledge resulting from 
thought as “adequation with the object” (Totality 27) to that of infinity, in the 
sense given to it by Lévinas, namely, the openness to a notion of subjectivity as 
hospitality (27), as a reception of Otherness that preserves its character of 
exteriority, that is not accompanied by the violent hermeneutical attempt to 
throw full light upon or disclose the Other (28). 

It is indeed ethics as the Lévinasian response to infinity — as demésure and 
rupture embedded in subjectivity, beyond reification of essence as 
comprehension, presence, logic — that constitutes the fundamental, originary 
condition of being. We could say that the practice of literature in La chiave a 
stella is ethical by definition precisely because (and not although) it does not 


200 Nicoletta Pireddu 


and cannot rely on the self-identity of an absolute, univocal, universal truth 
authenticated by the principle of validation as in science. Unlike the materials 
used by the rigger, which do not allow mistakes, the paper “non protesta mai” 
(47), yet its flexibility does not grant larger freedom. Rather, it is the paper’s 
being “un materiale troppo tollerante” (47) that renders the artisan of words 
responsible towards and for the other in a relation that, as in Lévinas, precedes 
individual freedom. 

Precisely as he underscores the maker’s ethical condition of radical 
answerability, the narrator of La chiave a stella can also be said to endorse the 
irreducibility of the Lévinasian Other. His warning to Faussone to be cautious 
with similes (78) is an instance of the caution he himself adopts in his exchanges 
with his interlocutor, sensitive to his uniqueness, beyond abstractions and 
generalizations. By emphasizing the need to refrain from evaluating or 
interfering with Faussone’s personality or choices, the narrator conceives of an 
interpersonal relationship founded upon “un’arte dell’ascoltare” (33) rather than 
simply upon that of narrating as a centripetal and intentional movement that 
conveys meaning to the other without questioning the solidity of the self. The 
passivity implied by the art of listening does not only confirm the form of writing 
as bearing witness that characterizes much of Levi’s works. It also evokes the 
passivity of Lévinas’s communication as exposition of a vulnerable subjectivity, 
as patience, as inadequacy of the self to itself (Otherwise 53-54) and hence 
simultaneously erases the passivity of Adorno’s Odysseus, namely, the imposed 
or self-imposed impotence of the cunning individual aiming at self-preservation. 
Where the adventures of the Homeric rationalizing archetype trace an itinerary 
from Sameness to Sameness, the voyage of reason and of a totalizing self back to 
itself (Totality 27), the responsibility towards the other that the narrator of La 
chiave a stella advocates implies an exodus from oneself without return, the 
explosion of the originary and absolute unit of the self. 

Ultimately, the narrator recognizes not only the impossibility of the attempt 
to speak of the other on behalf of the other, but above all the unethical quality of 
such a move. And, symptomatically, he resorts to the scientific paradigm not so 
much to reinstate the universal power of its conceptual tools but rather to show 
the limits of its agency upon human matter, its inability to account for the alterity 
of the “you,” and the need to abstain: 


E gia difficile per il chimico antivedere, all’infuori dell’esperienza, l’interazione fra due 
molecole semplici; del tutto impossibile predire cosa avverra all’incontro di due molecole 
moderatamente complesse. Che predire sull’incontro di due esseri umani? [...] Nulla: 
nulla di sicuro, nulla di probabile, nulla di onesto. Meglio sbagliare per omissione che 
per commissione: meglio astenersi dal governare il destino degli altri, dal momento che e 
gia cosi difficile ed incerto pilotare il proprio. 

(Levi 167) 


Towards a Poet(hjics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 201 


We are hence asked to accept that the recognition and the respect of the 
other cannot but come from the recognition of the inadequacy of /ogos, of the 
language of identity and of identification, of the powerlessness of speculative 
reason and of its practical application, of verbal technology, to represent the 
other. 

From the abstract standardization of the Futurist myth of the mechanized 
individual that still conceals underneath its metal case the imperialism of 
subjectivity, La chiave a stella takes us to the opposite asymmetry, that of the 
Lévinasian ethical subject, hostage to an irreducible alterity that interrogates the 
subject while defying disclosure and knowledge. In Levi the thought of the hand 
rehumanizes technology, recuperates its relationship with the individual, but 
does not consolidate an intersubjective dimension founded upon mutual verbal 
and emotional exchange. Significantly, the dialogues between Faussone and the 
narrator remain at the level of the /ei, the more distant courtesy form. 

How to go beyond this radically singular Other that resists both assimilation 
to and exclusion from the self? Can technology offer the possibility of an 
approach to the other that reestablishes reciprocity? A positive answer can be 
found in Atlante occidentale by Daniele Del Giudice, the story of a fortuitous 
encounter between an elderly German writer, Ira Epstein, and a young Italian 
physicist, Pietro Brahe, who share a passion for flying and who gradually 
develop a friendship based upon exchanges about the challenges they face in 
their respective professions. Through the machine, Del Giudice gradually 
establishes a symmetrical and ethical relationship, mapping on his atlas the 
coordinates of a voyage towards alterity that he constructs as intersubjective, 
interdiscursive, and interemotional. 


> As I hope to show, no less than in La chiave a stella, the dialogical and empathic 
dimension of Atlante occidentale does not aim at eliminating the specificity of each 
character or of the discipline it represents. Del Giudice, as he himself declared in an 
interview soon after the publication of his novel, is not interested in transforming 
literature into science (“non credo che la letteratura debba essere come la scienza. Non 
credo che la letteratura debba essere come nessun’altra cosa” “II tempo del visibile” 70). 
He even opposes readings of Atlante occidentale in terms of the “two cultures” debate, if 
this amounts to a discussion of a theoretical or gnoseological question treating science as 
mere culture. Rather, Del Giudice wants to tackle “un problema di tipo esistenziale e 
comportamentale” (70). This is why he represents “scienza e tecnologia in atto” (70) as 
elements of everyday life, a life in which the nature of things has changed, inducing “un 
diverso sentimento delle cose” (70) and, consequently, “un sentimento di sé nuovo” (70). 
For its part, my emphasis on the status and role of the technological object would like to 
show how, precisely in the realm of praxis this new perception of the self entailed by the 
new reality also implies a certain way of relating to the other. It is in this sense that, 


202 Nicoletta Pireddu 


3. Atlante occidentale: Daniele Del Giudice’s Vision Machine 

The Futurist intoxicating experience of speed and energy, absent from the 
technological world of La chiave a stella, resonates at the opening of Del 
Giudice’s novel, when Pietro Brahe is getting ready for take-off, while waiting 
“che hangar, la pompa di benzina e l’ufficio del noleggio scivolassero sempre 
piu veloci ai lati” (3) and while perceiving as “pura velocita contro di lui” (3) 
Epstein’s approaching plane that will almost hit him and force him to an 
emergency landing. And it is the echo of the “ampio petto” (Marinetti 11) of 
Marinetti’s locomotives or of the “volo scivolante degli aeroplani, la cui elica 
garrisce al vento come una bandiera e sembra applaudire come una folla 
entusiasta” (11) that we may hear in Del Giudice’s planes with a “pancia bianca” 
(Atlante 3) and endowed with personalities and voices (3; 11). However, what 
may seem at first a return of the technological myth of the Futurist machine 
conceals in fact a crucial difference. If in flight Marinetti feels “il petto aprirsi 
come un gran buco ove tutto l’orizzonte del cielo deliziosamente s’ingolfava 
liscio fresco e torrenziale” (Marinetti 136), for his part Pietro Brahe, sitting in 
his plane at the opening of the novel, thinks that his position “era in realta 
l’adeguamento a tutto quanto, dall’aereo e da fuori, gli veniva incontro, 
compresa la sua faccia, resa anamorfica dal sole sulla curvatura del plexiglas” 
(Atlante 3). In Marinetti’s chest swallowing the whole environment while 
relishing the “massaggio feroce e colorante del vento impazzito” (Marinetti 136) 
as a sign of the “Vittoria del nostro io sui perfidi complotti del nostro Peso, che 
vuole assassinare a tradimento la nostra velocita trascinandola in un buco 
d’immobilita” (136), we can recognize the Futurist voluptuousness inseparable 
from the magnification of an aggressive and all-encompassing “I.” For his part, 
Brahe’s body adapting to and merging with the environment, rather than greedily 
devouring its surrounding, is in many ways symbolic of the ethical message of 
the novel. 

If, as Paul Virilio insistently observes, the dynamic performances of the 
Futurist inhuman metallic type represent the point of arrival of a “dromological 
evolutionism” (Speed and Politics 62) that conceals the disablement of the 
individual’s body and intellect behind the apparent super-empowerment of the 
“bellicose dandy” (62), Del Giudice’s own way of reducing distances and 
negating space through the machine is, for its part, in the service of unification 
rather than of “penetration and destruction” (Speed 133). It is precisely the initial 
failed collision between Brahe and Epstein, the non-occurrence of a violent 
impact, that opens up the space for a different role of speed and technology. Be 
it the plane that accidentally favors the encounter between the two protagonists 





through technology, the interaction of science and literature in Aé/ante occidentale takes 
on an ethical value. 





Towards a Poet(hjics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 203 


and soon-to-be friends, or the underground accelerating ring that creates 
interactions among sub-atomic particles, or the mechanisms of Epstein’s 
imagination and writing that strive to keep a link between words and things in a 
complex reality, the machine in Del Giudice’s text is a catalyst for promoting 
and multiplying intersections, encounters, exchanges animated by attraction, 
seduction, emotional and aesthetic affinities. 

Above all, on a more general level, we have the interaction and convergence 
of science and literature, embodied by the friendship of Brahe and Epstein, and 
founded upon their communal recognition of the new conception of matter 
coming from quantum physics. It is neither Marinetti’s sensuous and malleable 
steel, nor the tangible and more or less tolerant elements of La chiave a stella, 
iron and paper, but rather “una materia infinitesimale e virtuale” (46), an entity 
like light, itself simultaneously matter and action, “non circoscritta, senza 
solidita” (156), “la cosa pit comune che ci sia, molto pil comune del legno e del 
metallo, eppure [...] la pit: privata” (157). Yet Del Giudice builds more than a 
rational alliance between the two characters: the fellowship that binds Brahe and 
Epstein through the machine is a friendship of two minds as much as a mutual 
sharing of personalities, experiences, and emotions, that leads Aé/ante 
occidentale beyond the imbalance of La chiave a stella in terms of intellectual 
sophistication, openness to crossing of disciplinary borders, and readiness to be 
exposed to and defamiliarized by the other. The challenge of Ad/ante occidentale 
is that of constructing, through the experience of technology, an ethical 
dimension based not so much upon the cleavage between the self and an absolute 
alterity but rather upon communication, yet without simultaneously falling back 
into the universalising power of /ogos as reason and identity.° 

Both the writer’s effort to go beyond form as a way of changing his 
“rapporto tra l’etica e la forma” (32) and the physicist’s investigation within the 
realm of quantum mechanics, that erases the difference between ontology and 
epistemology (Antonello 129-46), suggest a connection with the Lévinasian 
ethical movement beyond essences, which, significantly, Del Giudice seems to 
reinforce even further with his characters’ insistence on the experience of vision. 
Yet, this apparent rapprochement with Lévinas also allows us to grasp the 
divergence between the two ethical positions. 

Although for Lévinas the self’s unity can be lacerated and penetrated by the 
Other’s radical alterity only through a “Saying” that is “Exposure to Another” 
(Otherwise 48), “being at the question before any interrogation” (49), and prior 
to any “said [...] as a noema of an intentional act [...] supported by a subject” 
(46), ultimately the foundation of the ethical relation according to Lévinas does 


° Significantly, Epstein refuses to choose suicide as the conclusion of one of his plots 
because for him “il suicidio é un’improvvisa impennata dell’io, un’inspiegabile uscita 
dalla relazione” (69). 


204 Nicoletta Pireddu 


not lie in expression as discursivity. Rather, what for him is the “primordial 
expression” (Totality 199) consists of the revelation of the face, “the epiphany of 
the face as a face” (75), whose gaze directed towards the self establishes “a 
relation between me and the other beyond rhetoric” (75), a non-verbal bond that 
is based upon sensitivity. This non-discursive ethical relation is a “proximité 
entre Moi et l’interlocuteur” [a proximity between Myself and my interlocutor] 
(“Langage et proximité,’ En Decouvrant 224; transl. mine), an immediate 
contact with the Other in terms of “tendresse et responsabilité” (225) [tenderness 
and responsibility], the approach of subjectivity to a singularity that defies 
thematization and representation, and that manifests itself as “peau et visage 
humain” (225) [human skin and face] piercing the individual conscience. This 
ethical dimension for Lévinas is in itself signification, “langage originel, 
fondement de I’autre” (225) [original language, foundation of the other], yet at 
the same time it has to be considered “une relation avec une singularité placée 
hors du théme du discours et qui, par le discours, n’est pas thématisée, mais est 
approchée” (224) [a relationship with a singularity placed outside the theme of 
discourse, and that is not thematized by discourse but rather approached]. 

The privileged ethical significance of the non-verbal, and, in particular, of 
the visual and of the tactile, is also the foundation of the relationship between 
Epstein and Brahe. However, in his own way of going beyond essences through 
vision and contact Del Giudice offers the possibility of suturing the wounds of 
the Lévinasian vulnerable self, exposed, naked, passive, and patiens, to the 
Other. For this purpose, Del Giudice makes seeing and saying work together. 
Accompanied by words, vision creates a form of proximity between self and 
other as feeling together and sharing experiences. 

Still in the airfield, right after the risk of collision, Epstein envisions the 
positions and gestures of the people around him as “una serie istantanea di idee 
di sé e immagini dell’altro che scorrevano del tutto invisibili” (14) underneath 
the sentences and the perceptions that made up that network of interpersonal 
exchanges. Likewise, at the accelerating ring, Brahe monitors “una materia 
infinitesimale e virtuale” (46), the impact, bouncing, exchange and 
transformation of “entita piccole e invisibili come un’idea” (46). It is this 
imperceptible and immediate quality that characterizes the material and human 
reality of the novel. Objects, people, actions manifests themselves in micro- 
situations, as occasional and discrete moments of vision and expression that 
recall the undetectable twitching of Nathalie Sarraute’s “tropismes,”” and that 


’ As Sarraute herself explains in an interview, what she means by “tropismes” “c’est un 
certain ordre de sensations, de mouvements intérieurs qui n’existent que dans le 
subconscient, dans une sorte d’obscurité et qu’il faut recréer [...] pas ‘exprimer’” 
(Sarraute, in De Rambures Comment travaillent 149). The writer’s challenge is to give a 
form to this invisible and indiscernible dimension, to transform tropisms into language, 


Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 205 


are presented as efforts and tests, as “un esperimento” (76) rather than already 
extant data or unproblematic accomplishments. The whole novel, we could say, 
is a macro-tropism representing the minute perceptive and emotional turnings 
and stirrings that mark the birth and development of Brahe’s and Epstein’s 
friendship, based upon the sharing of this sort of visual, communicative and 
ethical experiment in which rationality and imagination cooperate and converge. 
If we refer once again to the apocalyptic dromological forecast of Paul 
Virilio, based upon the Futurist technological evolutionism, we can say that Del 
Giudice’s novel hence presents the opposite of what Virilio defines as “the new 
technology of ‘visionics’” (‘Vision Machine” 134), namely, an industrialization 
of vision, the automation of perception, sightless, synthetic vision created by the 
machine for the machine itself. Although A‘tlante occidentale belongs to the 
latest phase of a technological world, and thematizes it in its narration, it could 
not be more removed from the prospect of the “automatic-perception prosthesis” 
(135) in Virilio’s scenario, functioning “like a kind of mechanized imaginary” 
(135) from which the living subject is excluded. Rather, it is as though the 
attraction of both characters for matter and visibility grew proportionally to their 
disappearance, and even stimulated the writer and the physicist to create objects 
of vision to compensate for their absence, because, as another character in the 
novel, Wang, observes, “per vedere bisogna avere la forza di produrre cio che sl 
vuol vedere. [...] ci vuole una grande intenzione e una grande energia” (43). 
Precisely through intention and energy Brahe and Epstein can be said to 
overturn the passivity and the lack of intentionality that characterize the 
Lévinasian ethical subject subjected to the infinity and transcendence of the 
Other. Yet, at the same time, they establish a relationship between Same and 
Other that passes, as in Lévinas, through a relationship with things, in which 
things are not objects of knowledge nor merchandise but rather elements that, in 





to translate sensations into concrete images, without recurring to “une forme 
préexistante” (151). In addition to Del Giudice’s peculiar use of the present perfect, 
which records and reproduces the immediacy, the taking place of occurrences that do not 
exist prior to the narrative act, Atlante occidentale seems to reproduce Sarraute’s 
“frottement continuel” (151) through which tropisms relate sensations to the search for a 
form and to writing. Very often, indeed, Del Giudice concentrates on imperceptible and 
unprecedented occurrences and sensations that take shape under the narrator’s eye as the 
narrator himself translates them into narrative form, as, for instance, in the following 
passage: “Parlando, poi, non badava tanto alle parole, ma a una serie di segnali invisibill 
di posizione, piccolissimi mutamenti nella tensione del corpo, nella direzione delle 
spalle, sue e di Gilda, a un flusso che gli sembrava di perdere e di ritrovare 
continuamente” (132). Or again, “Ci sono piccoli rumori delle sedie, sullo sfondo di 
piccoli rumori del giardino, o anche semplici rumori dell’accavallare e disaccavallare le 
gambe, o rumori del respiro, dai quali ciascuno di loro due, nel buio, percepisce la 
sospensione dell’altro” (148). 


206 Nicoletta Pireddu 


the act of being donated to the other, abolish self-identity and separation, insofar 
as they become catalysts for a communifying bond.* 

After thirty years of literary activity in which he has traversed writing in all 
its forms, Epstein acknowledges he begins “appena a vedere” (31), precisely 
when things are beginning to turn into "non cose" (77). His passion for objects 
led him to perceive and feel each of them as endowed with “una sua vita; non 
solo quella della materia, lavorata in forma, la sua vita era il pensiero che c’era 
dietro il comportamento in cui si prolungava” (66-67). Therefore, perceiving and 
feeling lead Epstein beyond the animism of the Futurist technological world as 
well as beyond its re-humanizing revision by the characters of La chiave a stella. 
For Epstein they also highlight, and ultimately accomplish, the “possibilita di 
amicizia’” (67) between people through the making and the circulation of objects 
that Faussone and his interlocutor had contemplated theoretically in their 
exchanges on matter and techné as the work of the hand or realized individually, 
in their respective activities, but not really experienced together. Epstein, whose 
task has always been that of relating (in the sense of both narrating and 
connecting) things to people and people to things, can hear a voice even in a 
mass produced object, a voice that hence creates a privileged bond with him, and 
shows him how, similarly, “esisteva una relazione con gli altri, con molti altri, 
attraverso le cose che ci sono nel proprio tempo, attraverso il fare che non era 
soltanto fare gli oggetti ma molto di pit” (67).’ Yet how can this emotional 
attachment to objects as the embodiments of an infinite variety of actions, 
behaviors, and personalities — hence as an ethical carrier — survive in a reality 
in which “le cose stanno scomparendo” (70)? 

If making, and the machine in the service of making, are the tools for 
building up interpersonal relationships, with the disappearance of matter it is 
seeing that replaces the ethical work of matter and on matter. But significantly, 
this seeing is not the equivalent of “understanding” as the triumph of rationality, 
of “enlightenment” as acquisition of knowledge, nor a know-how as an 
instrumental use or violent appropriation of things. Rather, once light is no 


* For Lévinas, “[t]he generality of the Object is correlative with the generosity of the 
subject going to the Other, beyond the egoist and solitary enjoyment, and hence making 
the community of the goods of this world break forth from the exclusive property of 
enjoyment” (Totality 76). Therefore, it is “across the world of possessed things” (76), 
through giving instead of simple construction of things, that it is possible to “recognize 
the Other” (76), and hence to pass “from the individual to the general” (76), to “establish 
community and universality” (76). 

° Del Giudice himself seems to corroborate Epstein’s treatment of objects, as he observes: 
“Il mondo delle cose é importante perché le cose sono oggetti di proiezioni e di desiderio, 
sono molto pit legate al sentire che non al mondo economico-materiale” (Borsari ed. 11). 
For his part, Epstein is perplexed each time that he comes across objects “astratti dal 
comportamento, sopravvissuti ai gesti, ai sentimenti” (Af/ante 96). 





Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 207 


longer “sfondo di un’azione” (55), “‘contorno delle cose” (55) but actually at 
once thing and action itself, and in constant change, it is only possible to see 
indirectly, precisely to believe to have seen quantities, energies and movements, 
“intuire e immaginare” (80). Indeed, Brahe strives to “trattenere le forme che ha 
appena visto, 0 creduto di vedere; [...], vorrebbe che avessero la solidita di un 
punto esterno contro cui rimbalzare, vorrebbe isolarle una per una, disporle con 
un certo ordine, toccarle” (154). Yet within the accelerating ring this order and 
solidity can only be found in the machines to be used for the experiments — 
“ordinate e disponibili, come un vocabolario” (81) — but not in their object of 
inquiry, constantly shifting “dall’onda alla forma all’onda, da un nome a un altro 
nome” (86). 

It is through poiesis that this indirect vision compensates for the inadequacy 
of technology to grant access to the concreteness of matter, through a creative 
faculty that provides “un’immagine mentale” (86) of that which “si era generato 
per trasformarsi subito in tutt’altro” (80), and which hence cannot be seized 
through the criterion of truth but rather through that of probability. The law of 
probability that governs Brahe’s subatomic world “non proibisce quello che puo 
accadere, né indica un modo unico in cui puo accadere, ma riconosce che puo 
accadere tutto cid che accade, tranne quello che é€ vietato” (86). Beyond the 
context of quantum physics, this sort of tautological statement that points at rules 
and constraints without defining them a priori, but only after they have been 
validated by praxis, that is, by the events that they are supposed to regulate in a 
specific context, can also be taken as the ethical law of the novel. Indeed, 
probability in Atlante occidentale defines a contingent, cautious and almost 
bashful approach to otherness that, as Epstein claims, “@ una grande forma di 
rispetto” (104) precisely because it does not abandon models tout court but 
rather remains “vicina a cid che accade fino alla coincidenza, eppure separata” 
(104). Significantly Del Giudice himself privileges probability over mere 
certainty in the domain of literary creation because it takes "il sentimento" 
(Borsari ed. 9) as the only possible verification to the detriment of abstract 
theoretical conventions. And it is precisely by accepting probability as a 
synthesis of “precisione” and “‘stupore” (At/ante 108) that Epstein persists in his 
efforts at building a model of reality through description, since in the inability to 
describe something to somebody “‘c’é qualcosa di amorale, come del resto c’e 
qualcosa di assolutamente morale in una buona descrizione. Non aver bisogno di 
raccontare é l’unica cosa che incrina la felicita del vedere oltre la forma” (77- 
78). 

Indeed, just as Brahe deals with a condition of matter in which, despite the 
impossibility of a direct access to the object of study, nor of defining it 
univocally, “un’idea o un modello non vengono mai abbandonati del tutto” 
(104), the novel does not simply nullify the viability of graphs and codes but 
rather modifies their nature and function. From descriptions of methodologies 


208 Nicoletta Pireddu 


for the acquisition of knowledge about an observable reality, it transforms them 
into the incarnation of shared emotions, the manifestation of an urge for 
empathy, cohesion, togetherness.'° Thus, Epstein would like to divide up space 
with even more time zones but not before turning them into “linee di azione” 
(16) connecting “tutti quelli che in questo istante bevono succo di lampone da 
Tokyo a Buenos Aires [...]; 0 tutti quelli che si sfiorano una guancia con la 
mano, 0 tutti quelli che guardano I’orologio pensando che altrove € un’altra ora” 
(15). 

The intense ‘“‘desiderio di complicita” (16) that for Epstein instills in people 
an attraction for other people’s actions, is precisely what pushes Brahe to picture 
the accelerating ring less as a technological device with a practical scientific 
function than as a connector of human gestures and intentions, surmising that, 
“probabilmente" (22; my emph.), also the researchers in the other sections of the 
ring “si appoggiavano alle spalliere delle sedie, passavano le braccia dietro lo 
schienale, stiravano le spalle, si stropicciavano gli occhi o la faccia con Je mani” 
(22). Brahe’s imaginative visions condense the ethical import of “probability” 
highlighted throughout the novel insofar as they infuse affection into his 
projection towards others, against all the odds of divisions generated by 
competition, linguistic barriers, and logistic constraints: “pensava all’amicizia, a 
quello strano tipo di solidarieta nel fare che nasceva in posti come questi, in notti 
come queste, nel silenzio di hall smisuratamente grandi come queste, soli tra 
macchine smisuratamente grandi isolate talvolta da blocchi di beton per le 
radiazioni” (23). Similarly, the design of the machine under construction on the 
blueprint that Brahe submits to Wang does not simply trace the distribution of 
tasks and of parts of the projects among research teams of different countries. It 
also outlines the communal thought and work of an international collaboration, 
“punti di collimazione” (46) that are above all the graphic sign of a scientific and 
technological activity providing unity despite the diversity of each researcher. 

To this “comunanza di gesti ed emozioni” (164) there responds the ultimate 
unification of different forces that manifests itself in the “simmetria cosi radicale 
e sorprendente” (164) of the traces left by the particles in collision. The 
successful, final experiment with “una macchina cosi grande, e una geometria 
cosi raffinata, e una matematica tanto complessa” (167) in which Brahe can see 
for the first time and find a proof of ‘una legge simultanea della differenza e 
dell’identita” (164) able to subsume phenomena that so far appeared as 
“manifestazioni di forze diverse e separate” (164) becomes also the seal of 
friendship, an occasion for elevating the value of emotional communication, for 
treasuring the significance of “una collettivita insonne e stupefatta, nella quale 


'° Precisely in a “diagram of feeling independent of event” (in Baranski and Pertile, eds.) 
Anna Dolfi locates “the form beyond form [...], the meaning behind things” (97) that 
animates Del Giudice’s search. 





Towards a Poet(hjics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 209 


ciascuno rinunciava alla propria lingua per scambiare semplicemente occhiate e 
sorrisi e piccoli scuotimenti di testa, pil comunicativi di ogni parola” (165). 

This communicability that abolishes the division of each individuality as 
much as of each physical force comes from an event that is not only radical and 
surprising but, significantly, also “[cjosi incredibilmente bello” (164). Be it in 
the domain of nature, where “la vera bellezza” (168) translates the solidarity and 
coherence of phenomena, or in the field of human relations, where for instance 
— as Gilda observes — the simple fact of Epstein’s existence provides people 
with “un piccolo sentimento di comunita [...] con tutto quello che c’é oggi, e con 
gli altri” (132-33), the foundation for the sense of kinship that the novel pursues 
lies precisely in the purposeless cohesion offered by the aesthetic dimension, by 
the Kantian notion of the beautiful as sensus communis, the very disposition 
towards aestheticization as disinterestedness that makes Epstein happy “che 
anche l’utile stesse diventando a colori” (97) or that pushes him to construct the 
elements of his stories “senza finalita” (34). 

The total synthesis offered by Brahe’s vision, therefore, also completes the 
work of harmonization between the scientific and the aesthetic realm, and in so 
doing, it definitively authenticates the communion between the two protagonists 
that had already been symbolically announced by a flight together, in the same 
aircraft — which is, of course, also a way of erasing their initial risk of collision 
with one another. The novel significantly closes on the symmetry and the 
simultaneity of their respective actions and visions, arguably a trace of the 
Futurist “simultaneita dinamica.” Yet here simultaneity emphasizes the absolute 
reciprocity that binds the two characters, reiterating the naturalization of 
mechanical perception, rather than, as in the Futurists, the mechanization of 
natural perception. The “protesi gigantesca” (166), the detector, with which the 
researcher can now see and deal with the new, unrepresentable, dimensions of 
matter does play the role of what “un tempo era destinato a un organo percettore 
come |’orecchio o la bocca 0 | polpastrelli o l’occhio o il naso” (166). However 
Del Giudice does not present this substitution of physical senses with technical 
functions as a source of factitious and instrumental virtual images, nor does he 
locate in the “splitting of viewpoint” (Virilio, “Vision” 134) between living 
subject and the seeing machine a cause of de-sensitization. Far from yielding to 
the automation of feeling and perception, the eye, the mouth and the heart rather 
accept new challenges, new experiments. If, as Epstein claims, “la lettera non é 
irriducibile” (147), the new experiment will be precisely to capture and share the 
energy behind it, that leads to the production of an image, a gesture, a verbal 
tense, or “un sentimento” (147). 

The novel, we could say, wants to avoid the danger of an “industrialization 
of the non-gaze” (Virilio, “Vision” 147) through a coincidence of reality 
principle and reality effect through a vision of the invisible which is at the same 
time a visionary approach to the visible. Significantly, Epstein defines himself as 


210 Nicoletta Pireddu 


“un visionario di cid che esiste, un visionario di quello che c’e” (67). Indeed, if 
after the death of the “classical intervals of space and time” (Virilio, “Vision” 
148), already announced by the Futurist founding manifesto, the “new absolute” 
(“Vision” 148) of the speed of light annuls the delay entailed by the “principle of 
communication” (148) and replaces it with “the principle of instantaneous 
emission and reception change-over” (148), Brahe declares his love for this 
absolute speed (A/é/ante 53), to be sure, but concurrently recognizes that ‘“‘c’é un 
tempo delle emozioni che non va assolutamente con questo tempo, e senza 
emozione mi pare che una cosa non sia intera, che non si fissi nella memoria” 
(52). And it is precisely with this uncharted, perhaps unchartable (and yet 
probable hence authentic) territory of emotions and communication that we are 
left in the final scene, where for the first time the two protagonists address each 
other with the “tu”: a “punto di non ritorno” (110) in their friendship, as it had 
been defined earlier in the novel. Of the outcome of this ethical conquest 
promoted through the machine the novel does not say anything else. It simply 
records its occurrence, as the detector has done with the subatomic particles in 
collision. Nobody will write a follow-up, as Epstein claims, but this does not 
mean that the event is negligible. On the contrary, precisely because the letter is 
not irreducible, and precisely to protect this ultimate and total communion 
between the two protagonists from a reduction to interpretation,'' it is the 
pathos, the empathy of the occurrence that matters most: the important thing — 
we read — is not to write its story, but rather, “provarne un sentimento” (173). 


4. Poet(h)ics: The Making of Otherness 


“La matiére, investie comme objet et outil dans le monde, c’est aussi, par l’humain, la 
matiére qui m’obséde par sa proximité. La poésie du monde n’est pas séparable de la 
proximité par excellence ou de la proximité du prochain par excellence.” 

(Lévinas, “Langage et proximité” 228) 


From the Futurist myth of the seductive and worshipped steel alcove, with its 
dark side of violence and domination of the other, we have seen technology 
transmute into the revitalizing and domesticated technical fetishes of La chiave a 
stella, and ultimately generate the radical and beautiful symmetry and 
simultaneity produced by the relation-building machines of Atlante occidentale. 
In this trajectory, what is generally taken as the desacralizing operation with 
which a profane and self-referential technology invades and vanquishes the 
world of symbol has rather emerged as a resacralization of the world by a 


'' As Ricci observes, communication is reduced to “interpretation only when there is an 
active resistance to non-sense” (50). 





Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 211 


technology that is itself intrinsically and overtly symbolic.'” 

Indeed, the effect of Levi’s and Del Giudice’s own way of overcoming the 
cleavage between science and literature as has emerged from La chiave a stella 
and Af¢lante occidentale is neither that of debunking the mythical character of the 
rational and the operational altogether, nor that of unmasking the allegedly false 
neutrality of technology. In an age of mechanical reproduction that seems 
systematically to break illusions and stifle originality and inspiration in favor of 
the practical and instrumental, their challenge is, rather, to show that it is 
possible to reenchant the world through technology itself, without either falling 
back into the snares of the master narratives or indicting the allegiance of myth 
and machine as the cause of a mass deception that deprives the individual of 
both reason and aesthetics.'’ As wary of the stultifying influence of the 
mechanical over the physical, emotional and intellectual spheres, as of its 
reversed double, namely, the unlimited power and hubris of a dehumanized 
being devoted to the cult of unlimited progress, their bridge over the chasm of 
the two cultures is the idea of a material and cultural output able to reconcile 


'> Miquel and Ménard propose to subsume these two apparently opposite movements of 
desacralization and resacralization traced by the technical object under the term 
dissacralisation (338). Although, as they recognize, the term had already been introduced 
by S. Aquaviva, Miquel and Ménard adopt it to designate technology as the coexistence 
and simultaneity (instead of the mutual exclusion or parallelism) of a rational and 
operational thought, on the one hand, and of an aesthetic, mythical, symbolic process, on 
the other. 

'? The mechanism of “stupore” (“I tempi” 88), as Del Giudice clarifies, allows him 
precisely to avoid the extremes of faith and disenchantment, of absolute irrationality and 
of total rationality, of a progressive horizon and of a nostalgic sense of radical loss. As 
Del Giudice claims in a more recent occasion, “di disincanto siamo tutti capaci, il 
problema é di produrre reincanto. Come produrre reincanto oggi?” (Borsari ed. 15). Even 
though the Barthesian phase of the myths of the present is by now outdated, according to 
Del Giudice, what one must not forget is that in the pervasiveness of things and 
references of our daily life there is mystery, as well: “II mistero dell’oggetto ¢ il mistero 
del perché, nonostante le intenzioni, nonostante la forma, nonostante tutto, quella cosa ha 
un carattere particolare. [...] I] mistero ad esempio del mondo delle macchine é che 
conservano qualche cosa del mito tutto prosaicizzato, qualche cosa del nostro mitico 
rapporto col mondo animale” (Borsari ed. 15). It is in this very perspective that also 
Levi’s La chiave a stella transcends, for instance, the standpoints on literature and 
industry in // Menabo: Levi shows that it is possible to humanize technology without 
either sublimating it by reinstating “un regnum hominis “umanistico’, contemplativo”™ 
(Scalia 106), or spiritualizing and aestheticizing the mechanical reality depriving it of a 
new and creative human dimension. For Scalia, both outcomes would “sottrarre allo 
scrittore la responsabilita di una conoscenza drammatica e positiva della realta, 
constringerlo a una nostalgia delle origini ‘naturali’”’ (106) rather than opening up to the 
new human landscape, to the new technological dimension of our reality. 


212 Nicoletta Pireddu 


means and ends, to conceive of a productive knowledge that is also aesthetic and 
ethical. 

Put in the service of the everyday and of the imperceptible, the work of the 
mechanical and human matter in Levi and Del Giudice has led us gradually to 
what I would define as a poet(h)ics of technology, that is, an alliance of poiesis, 
poetics, and ethics.'* Techné returns through a concrete relationship with matter 
that is regulated by the law of exactness but that is simultaneously a making as a 
form of creative labor, therefore founded upon aesthetic principles, and 
delimiting not simply the locus of the human but an arena for the survival or the 
resurrection of the interhuman, beyond the response to otherness and the 
answerability for otherness as obsessive proximity, and towards the proximity of 
the other as sympathy, sharing, symmetry. 


Georgetown University 


Works Cited 


Antonello, Pierpaolo. “Microfisica del racconto.” Nuova Corrente 115 (1995): 129-46. 

Aristotle. Ethics. Eng. trans. J. A. K. Thomson. London: Penguin, 1976. 

Attridge, Derek. “Innovation, Literature, Ethics: Relating to the Other.” PMLA 114 
(1999): 20-31. 

Barthes, Roland. “From Work to Text.” /mage-Music-Text. Ed. and Eng. trans. Stephen 
Heath. Glasgow: Fontana-Collins, 1977. 155-64. 

Benjamin, Walter. “The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction.” 


'4In Eskin’s Ethics and dialogue, the term “poethics” is adopted to define the dialogical 
dimension intrinsic to Celan’s poetic performance as a reception of Mandel’stham’s own 
poetry, and the critic’s own attitude vis-d-vis his object of inquiry (Eskin 162). Before 
Eskin, “poethics” appeared in Weisberg’s Poethics to account for the “deeply ethical 
aspects” (Weisberg 34) of the “poetic substance” (34) of literature, seen as a substantive 
source of learning for legal studies. However, its French equivalent, “poéthique,” had 
been introduced as early as 1979 in the journal Dérives by the Québecois poet Philippe 
Haeck. In his article “Poéthique des Herbes Rouges” Haeck underscores the need for a 
poetics able to step out of authoritarian and normative languages which, like uniforms, 
“font disparaitre |’étre humain, au profit de son rdle social” (Haeck 103) and stifle “une 
vie intense, sentie” (104). I am grateful to Prof. Jean Jonassaint, editor of the journal, for 
having alerted me to this early reference. 

While partially overlapping with these definitions of “poet(h)ics,” which, to a 
greater or lesser extent, all emphasize the connection between ethics and poetics or 
aesthetics, my own way of conceiving the term would like to insist on the fundamental 
role of poiesis as making in this intersection. Although obviously contained in “poetics” 
itself, in the present discussion of the role of technology as techné in Levi and Del 
Giudice, poiesis becomes a fundamental aspect that needs to be made explicit. 


Towards a Poet(h)ics of techné. Primo Levi and Daniele Del Giudice 213 


Illuminations. Trans. Hannah Arendt. New York: Schocken Books, 1969. 217-51. 

Borsari, Andrea, ed. “Il volo dei sentimenti: a colloquio con Daniele Del Giudice.” 
Italienisch 22 (November 1989): 2-19. 

Del Giudice, Daniele. Atlante occidentale. Torino: Einaudi, 1985. 

. “Il tempo del visibile nell’ At/ante di Daniele Del Giudice” (Interview). Palomar. 
Quaderni di Porto Venere | (1986): 66-96. 

Dolfi, Anna. “Daniele Del Giudice. Planimetry of Sight/Vision in Three Books.” The 
New Italian Novel. Ed. Zygmunt Baranski and Lino Pertile. Edinburgh: Edinburgh 
UP, 1993. 89-98. 

Eskin, Michael. Ethics and Dialogue in the Works of Lévinas, Bakhtin, Mandel’shtam, 
and Celan. Oxford: Oxford UP, 2000. 

Haeck, Philippe. “Poéthique des Herbes Rouges.” Dérives 19 (1979). Rpt. La table 
d'écriture. Poéthique et modernité. Montréal: VLB, 1984. 93-106. 

Heidegger, Martin. “The Question Concerning Technology.” The Question Concerning 
Technology and Other Essays. Eng. trans. William Lowitt. New York: Harper 
Colophon Books, 1977. 

. What Is Called Thinking? Eng. trans. Fred D. Wieck and J. Glenn Gray. New 
York: Harper & Row, 1968. 

Horkheimer, Max, and Theodor W. Adorno. Dialectic of Enlightenment. Eng. trans. John 
Cumming. New York: Continuum, 1991. 

Huxley, Aldous. Brave New World. New York: Harper & Row, 1978 

. Literature and Science. New York: Harper & Row, 1963. 

Lévinas, Emmanuel. “Langage et proximité.” En découvrant |'existence avec Husserl et 

Heidegger. Paris: Librairie Philosophique J. Vrin, 1967. 217-36. 
. Otherwise than Being or Beyond Essence. Eng. trans. Alphonso Lingis. 
Pittsburgh: Duquesne UP, 1981. 
. Totality and Infinity. Eng. trans. Alphonso Lingis. Pittsburgh: Duquesne UP, 
1969. 
Levi, Primo La chiave a stella. Torino: Einaudi, 1991. 
. L‘altrui mestiere. Opere vol. 3. Torino: Einaudi, 1990. 585-829. 
, and Tullio Regge. Dialogo. Milano: Mondadori, 1994. 

Marinetti, Filippo Tommaso. Jeoria e invenzione futurista. Ed. Luciano De Maria. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1983. 

Miquel, Christian, and Guy Ménard, Les Ruses de la technique. Paris: Méridiens 
Klincksieck; Montréal: Editions du Boréal, 1988. 

Morasso, Mario. La nuova arma. La macchina. Torino: Centro Studi Piemontesi, 1994. 

. Uomini e idee del domani. L’egoarchia. Torino: Fratelli Bocca, 1898. 

Pirandello, Luigi. Quaderni di Serafino Gubbio operatore. Milano: Mondadori, 1992. 

Rambures, J.-L. de. “Nathalie Sarraute.” Interview. Comment travaillent les écrivains. 
Paris: Flammarion, 1978. 149-54. 

Ricci, Franco. “Atlante occidentale: Daniele Del Giudice’s New Atlantis.” Mosaic 23.1 
(1990): 45-53. 

Scalia, Gianni. “Dalla natura all’industria.” // Menabo di letteratura 4 (1961): 95-114. 

Segre, Cesare. “Introduzione.” Primo Levi. Opere. Vol. 2. Torino: Einaudi, 1978. vii- 
XXXV. 

Serres, Michel. “Literature and the Exact Sciences.” Eng. trans. Roxanne Lapidus. Sub- 





214 Nicoletta Pireddu 


stance 59 (1989): 3-34. 

Snow, C.P. The Two Cultures: and A Second Look. New York: New American Library, 
1964. 

Stajano, Corrado. “Il lavoro e la sua qualita.” Assonanze. Primo Levi. La chiave a stella. 
183-85. 

Tessari, Roberto. // mito della macchina. Letteratura e industria nel primo Novecento 
italiano. Milano: Mursia, 1973. 

Verdenelli, Marcello. “La chiave a stella e la scrittura ‘in bolla d’aria.’” Primo Levi: 
memoria e invenzione. Atti del convegno internazionale San Salvatore Monferrato. 
Ed. Giovanna loli. San Salvatore Monferrato: Edizioni della Biennale “Piemonte e 
letteratura” (1995): 121-46. 

Virilio, Paul. Speed and Politics. Eng. trans. Mark Polizzotti. New York: Semiotext(e), 
1986. 

. “The Vision Machine.” The Virilio Reader. Ed. James Der Derian. Oxford: 

Blackwell, 1998. 134-51. 

Weisberg, Richard. Poethics, and Other Strategies of Law and Literature. New York: 
Columbia UP, 1992. 








Robert S. C. Gordon 


“How Much Home Does a Person Need?” 
Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 


1. Ordinary Virtues 

Primo Levi’s work, in testimony and beyond, draws a map of an ethical universe, a 
universe of ethical enquiry which asks questions not only of the radical evil of the 
Holocaust but also of the ordinary, practical moralities of everyday living: ordinary 
virtues and ordinary vices, we might say.' Furthermore, his writing style and his 
narrative technique enact in their very texture that ethical questioning of 
uncommon and common experience, and the interaction between the two, so that 
we can say that his work operates /iterarily speaking in both ethical and meta- 
ethical fields hand-in-hand.” Indeed, this quality of framing and looking at the 
Holocaust through the lens of ordinary values (and vice versa), watching those 
values stumble and almost disintegrate without ever quite abandoning them, is 
perhaps the single most significant and characteristic contribution that Levi has 
made in his memoirs and narrative to both literature and testimonial writing. What 
is more, the specific nature of the values in question, their capacity to be both 
eccentrically Levi’s and also to contain echoes of larger traditions and cultures, 
makes it possible for his work to resonate historically as a locus of confrontation 


' For the notions of ordinary vices and ordinary virtues, see Shklar, who takes the former 
phrase from Montaigne (“fautes ordinaires”), a writer with whom Levi has many affinities; 
Todorov 40-46. See also Gordon, Virtues, the project out of which the present essay has 
grown. All references to Levi's works are to the volume and page number of his Opere. 

> This capacity to forge a writing and a narrative style that enacts in its very texture the 
careful ethical enquiry undertaken by Levi is what brings him closest to recent work on 
literature and ethics by figures such as Martha Nussbaum and Wayne C. Booth (see also 
Newton; Rorty). As the former states pellucidly, “My claim is that only the style of a 
certain sort of narrative artist (and not for example the style associated with the abstract 
theoretical treatise) can adequately state important truths about the world, embodying 
them in its shape and setting up in the reader the activities that are appropriate for 
grasping them” (Nussbaum 6). And although the field of literature and ethics has not on 
the whole been interested in the historical-ethical questions thrown up by the Holocaust 
(although, via Levinas, it is indirectly linked to Holocaust-related work such as 
Bauman’s), its insights are if anything enhanced by an encounter with Levi, where a 
careful, humane, and intelligent “narrative ethics” (Newton) is pitted against its possible 
annihilation. 


Annali da'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


216 Robert S. C. Gordon 


between two faces of Europe’s past: its rationalist, bourgeois, post-Enlightenment, 
progressive face and its dark, violent, totalitarian face (two faces which many have 
argued, from Adorno and Horkheimer onwards, are in reality one and the same). It 
also allows us to understand the peculiarly antiquated aura that often emanates 
from Levi’s writing, evident in his frequent reservations concerning what we might 
loosely call “modernist” projects in literature (e.g. Celan, Katka), psychoanalysis 
(e.g. Freud, Bettelheim), and philosophy (e.g. Améry).? Levi seems to bring 
another, pre-modernist set of values to bear on the event of modernity, and the 
effect of this disjunction is to open up a fascinating diachronic dimension to his 
work. Thus to tap into Levi’s ethics, to the virtues he uses to read his experience 
and the world around him, is no small exercise. It is both autobiographical or 
literary critical and cultural historical in the largest sense. 

A detailed mapping of Levi’s ordinary virtues lies beyond the scope of the 
present essay. What follows instead is a preliminary case study of one of the 
founding motifs of the ordinary in his work and in his self-conception, since the 
primacy of the ordinary is in itself fundamental for our positioning and 
understanding of his ethics. To establish this primacy in his writing as a working 
hypothesis, we can take two moments of explicit self-positioning made almost forty 
years apart. In 1986, in the preface to his collection of miscellany, Racconti e 
saggi, rejecting the aura of authority, even sanctity that naturally accrues to the 
survivor, he declares: “[...] sono un uomo normale di buona memoria che é 
incappato in un vortice” (II, 859; “I am a ordinary man with a good memory who 
ran into a whirlwind”); and in this, he echoes one of his very earliest statements 
of intent about his Holocaust writing, a first draft of the preface to Se questo é un 
uomo (1947) where he explains: “[...] ho cercato di mantenere I’attenzione sui 
molti, sulla norma, sull’uomo qualsiasi” (1, 1384; “I tried to keep focusing on the 
many, on the norm, on the ordinary man’’). 

This emphasis links Levi to a key feature of early modern European 
conceptions of moral value, a link best illustrated through Charles Taylor’s 
magisterial account of the genesis of selfhood and its relation to moral good, 
Sources of the Self. Taylor offers three overarching, conflicting, historical 
“frontiers” within modern identity: very roughly they can be labelled classical or 
theistic (Augustine to Montaigne), early modern (Reformation and 
Enlightenment) and modern (Romanticism and after). It is the middle of the three 
that interests here. For Taylor the fundamental strands of our present identity and 
moral orientation which evolved in that middle, early-modern period include 


For instances of Levi’s reservations about these figures, see I], 679-81 (Celan); II, 939- 
41, 1208-10 (Kafka); II, 1007 (Freud); Levi, Voice 233-4 (Bettelheim); II, 1091-1108 
(Améry). Levi’s anti-modernism is of a particular kind, however: it does not prevent his 
integration of science and writing, nor on occasion a liberal scepticism (Cheyette), nor his 
clinical analysis of the disintegration of the self, all of which are in their way quintessentially 
modernist. 


Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 217 


“freedom, benevolence [...] the demand for universal justice and beneficence 
[...] equality [...] the avoidance of death and suffering” (495). All of these reach 
a sort of apotheosis in the Enlightenment, and are recognisable in the distinctly 
neo-enlightened secular culture of Levi’s formation.’ But the most distinctive 
shift of the Protestant Reformation for Taylor, and the most suggestive feature of 
his account for our reading of Levi’s ethics, is the move away from the 
“heroism” of classical notions of the “good life” as the ideal end of moral 
enquiry towards what he calls the “affirmation of ordinary life” (Taylor 13-16, 
209-302). In this account, ordinary life — the life of marriage, family, and home, 
of work and production — rather than being the banal backdrop against which 
the self struggled to a higher ideal, became for the first time the proper centre of 
moral life, of notions of dignity and integrity. Ordinary life displaced the heroic 
or saintly ideal of the good life as the sphere of moral action. And with this shift 
a new taxonomy of perfections, and a new vocabulary for talking about them, 
was needed. This is precisely the sense in which Levi parades his ordinariness in 
his writing about the Holocaust and elsewhere: he makes ordinariness the anchor 
for his moral sense in the “whirlwind” of extreme experience. It is precisely the 
sense in which he understood the significance of the violence and victimhood of the 
Final Solution as destroying the code of value and valour derived from established 
conceptions of war, struggle, soldierliness, as Todorov argued (11-36). This 
ordinariness stands both on the side of vice and of virtue with respect to the 
Holocaust, so that Levi’s investment in the ordinary is in some sense in dialogue 
with Arendt’s interpretation of the Final Solution as an apotheosis of the banal: as 
Giorgio Agamben has put it recently, “una delle lezioni di Auschwitz é, appunto, 
che capire la mente di un uomo comune € infinitamente pil arduo che 
comprendere la mente di Spinoza o di Dante” (9). 

One of the key loci of the morality of the ordinary in Taylor’s history of the 
moral good, literally the space in which the ordinary begins historically to make 
sense as a centre of moral life, and also necessarily the first space to be denied to 
Jews hounded into ghettos, hiding in basements, deported to concentration camps, 
is also the motif in Levi’s work that we will now set out to follow: the space in 
question in that of “the home.” 

The home is constantly re-evoked in imagery, in geography and in memory 
throughout Levi’s oeuvre, often in explicit and anxious contrast with the more 
familiar motif of deportation and Jewish suffering, that of diasporic exile.” 
Although little noted in critical work on him, it is crucial to an understanding of the 


* On Levi’s formation in Turin’s early-twentieth-century post-Enlightenment, positivist, 
socialist-leaning culture, see “Il mondo invisibile” (on his father, L’altrui mestiere, II, 
800-01); and more generally, Bobbio; D’Orsi; Levra and Tranfaglia. On Levi as an 
“illuminista”, see Amsallem. 

* In a computer analysis of Levi’s work, the word “casa” was one of 752 words to appear 
in all 12 texts of the corpus analysed (Nystedt 39). 


218 Robert S. C. Gordon 


particular quality of the dialectical movement between Auschwitz and the “here- 
and-now” which is the prime source of ethical energy in his writing. It acts as a 
locus of profound ethical and narrative value in his work, as a powerful ordinary 
(normal and normative) counterweight to the antiethical, valueless, alien “other 
place” or “no-place” of the Lager.° In order to locate “the home” within Levi’s 
ethical universe we will in turn replay elements of his autobiographical writing, 
revisit in this new light the extraordinary dialogue from afar between Levi and the 
Austrian-born survivor Jean Améry, and finally probe the oeuvre for its textured 
usage of imagery of the home as both a remembered (that is, a lost) place and a real 
(that is, a refound) place, and so as a synecdochic fragment of Levi’s larger 
humane, communal and sensitively intelligent ethics. 


2. Corso Re Umberto 

One of the few commentators to have picked up on the central importance of the 
home for Levi — perhaps because he actually visited him in situ in corso Re 
Umberto in Turin over a number of days — was Philip Roth, in his remarkable 
1986 interview for the New York Times Book Review. Early on in the piece Roth 
writes: 


In a large apartment house built a few years before he was born — and where he was born, 
for formerly this was the home of his parents — Levi lives with his wife, Lucia; except for his 
year in Auschwitz and the adventurous months immediately after his liberation, he has lived 
in the same apartment all his life. 
[...] I don’t personally know of another contemporary writer who has voluntarily remained, 
over so many decades, intimately entangled and in such direct, unbroken contact with his 
immediate family, his birthplace, his region, the world of his forebears, and, particularly, 
with his local working environment [...]. Of all the intellectually gifted artists of this century 
[...] he may well be the most thoroughly adapted to the totality of the life around him. 
Perhaps in the case of Primo Levi, a life of communal interconnectedness, along with his 
masterpiece Survival in Auschwitz, constitutes his profoundly civilized and spirited response 
to those who did all they could to sever his every sustaining connection and tear him and his 
kind out of history. 

(Roth 14-15; cf. Levi, Voice 137) 


Roth pinpoints carefully the significance of the home for Levi as a place but also as 
an anchor for value, as a token of community and rootedness and therefore of a 


° On the terms “other place” (or heterotopia) and “no place” (or utopia), see Foucault and 
cf. Burdett (7-8). In the context of the ordinary, home-based origin of Levi's ethics, it 
would be instructive also to read him through the Freudian notion of the “uncanny” or 
unheimlich, where, precisely, the site of value and security of the bourgeois home is 
undermined from within by fear and absence. This is the working hypothesis of Cesaretti 
(whose work on the dimora in Italian fiction I have only been able to read in summary). 





Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 219 


rapport with memory and history, of successful adaptation to his environment (a 
Darwinian vocabulary which Levi himself drew on, frequently and ironically, to 
connote ethical value). He also rightly takes the bare biographical fact of Levi’s 
sedentary life as emblematic of his resistance to the moment of exile, alien hostility 
and disconnectedness represented by Auschwitz. This contrapuntal quality to 
Levi’s ethics of home is what prevents it from becoming settled, conservative and 
static as an ethics. 

Levi himself had published a remarkable piece on his home in the year 
preceding Roth’s interview, entitled “La mia casa,” which he tellingly placed as the 
first essay in his rich collection of occasional journalism, L ‘a/trui mestiere (11, 633- 
36).’ “La mia casa” is primarily an affectionate tribute to his home, written with 
warmth and humour; but as so often with Levi, an apparently light and unelaborate 
piece such as this conceals important interpretative threads for his work. Three 
threads in particular are interesting. First, Levi explores in several different ways 
the instinctive, “natural” bond between self and home using a characteristic mix of 
anthropomorphic and ethological vocabulary:* 


Abito da sempre (con involontarie interruzioni) nella casa in cui sono nato. [...] Credo che il 
mio sia un caso estremo di sedentarieta, paragonabile a quello di certi molluschi, ad esempio 
le patelle, che dopo un breve stadio larvale in cui nuotano liberamente, si fissano ad uno 
scoglio, secernono un guscio e non si muovono pit per tutta la vita. (II, 633) 


[...] durante l’ultimo conflitto, [la casa] ha sopportato tutti 1 bombardamenti cavandosela 
con qualche danno ai serramenti, e qualche screpolatura che porta tuttora con l’orgoglio con 
cui un veterano porta le cicatrici. (II, 633) 


Con questa casa, e con I’alloggio in cui abito, ho un rapporto inavvertito ma profondo, come 
si ha con le persone con cui si é convissuto a lungo. (1, 634) 


Non mi é€ facile parlare del rapporto che ho con lei [la casa]: forse € di natura gattesca, come 
i gatti amo gli agi ma posso anche farne a meno, e mi sarei adattato abbanstanza bene anche 
ad un alloggiamento disagiato, come varie volte mi € successo [...]. (II, 636) 


Abito a casa mia come abito all interno della mia pelle [...]. (II, 636) 


In this mix of imagery, Levi locates the origin of the “communal 
interconnectedness” noted by Roth quite literally in his physical rapport with his 


’ “Ia mia casa” is one of the few pieces in L‘altrui mestiere not to have been published 
as journalism previously. According to Belpoliti, editor of Levi’s Opere, it was probably 
written in the early 1980s (II, 1557). 

8 On Levi's extensive use of animal imagery and behaviour, see Belpoliti “Animali.” Two 
poems extend the analogy between home and nature, “Cuore di legno” (II, 554 about his 
“neighbour”, a horse chestnut tree); and “La chiocciola” (II, 573). 


220 Robert S. C. Gordon 


house and home. Intimate, interpersonal, instinctive, ordinary (he writes more than 
once of the building’s unexceptional, even bland solidity), arbitrary in that he was 
born there by chance and could have lived elsewhere, but also somehow of intense 
defining value for him, the home is here both a physical place and a quality of 
existence and this crucial duality will run throughout his deployment of the motif in 
his work. 

The second thread to “La mia casa” connects the home to one of the 
fundamental axes of Levi’s work and indeed of any work bound up with testimony 
and the representation of history: that is, the axis of memory. Levi recalls from his 
reading that the spaces of homes were for a long time used as sites in mnemonic 
techniques, whereby rooms or places within the home were imagined as filled with 
the items or images to be remembered, such that an imaginary walk through the 
home from room to room could swiftly recall each item or image to mind. This is 
the home as “memory palace” (Belpoliti 1998, 116-20; Spence; Yates). At once, 
the rooting of memory in the home sets the latter once again in antithetical contrast 
to the oblivion of the Holocaust, which Levi defined in / sommersi e i salvati as “‘a 
war against memory” (II, 1013). But there is a further step in Levi’s evocation of 
his home as a place of memory, which makes that antithetical positioning against 
the other- or no-place of the camps even more characteristic: he points out that, in 
fact, his home could not function as an artificial spatial mnemonic for him, since 
every corner, nook, and cranny is already laden with his own memories, his 
family’s stories and histories, their objects, and also by extension that of the road, 
the quartiere and the city of Turin around them.’ In the paragraphs at the heart of 
the essay, Levi traces the histories (or trasfigurazioni, Il, 635) of one or other 
corner, such as the small room that has been in turn a drawing-room, a maid’s 
bedroom, an office, a temporary dormitory (during the War), a children’s room and 
now a sort of lab, for developing photos, sewing and making toys. These 
paragraphs have something of the object- and space-obsessed quality of the writing 
of Georges Perec, a writer with whom Levi had many affinities, from their 
scientific and taxonomic mindset, to their penchant for word play and formal 
experiment, to their different but intense encounters with the death and loss caused 
by the Holocaust (Bellos 51-63, 398-403; Cavaglion, “Asimmetrie” 228). For 
Levi, the binding up of home and memory with the intimate private history of the 
self and the public history of change in the city around him adds a further 
resonance to the domestic. The home is both a token of memory, of the possibility 
of re-encountering the past in a general sense, of the border between memory and 
larger histories and a storehouse of the particularities of each of us, and the 
configurations that memory takes on as a result. In this sense “La mia casa” 
displays strong links with the first chapter of // sistema periodico, “Argon” (I, 741- 
56), which attempts to salvage the peculiar language, humour and gossipy 
communal texture of the Piedmontese-Jewish subculture within which Levi's 


° See also “II fondaco del nonno” (II, 827-30) and “II mondo invisibile” (II, 800-04). 


Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 221 


family had its origins (Cavaglion, ““Argon’’). 

Finally, it is worth pointing to Levi’s disingenuous, even contradictory 
attempts in “La mia casa” to relate (or not to relate) his home to his writing. 
Towards the end of the essay, he suggests that his environment has not had any real 
effect on his writing at all, although shortly before, and more than once earlier, he 
points out that his relationship with his house is so natural and long-standing that he 
cannot step outside of it and analyse it with objectivity. What is more, at the start of 
the essay he had suggested a direct link between his sedentary, mollusc-like 
existence in Corso Re Umberto and a yearning for the opposite, for travel, which 
pervades his narrative: “Forse debbo a questo destino statico l’amore mal 
soddisfatto che nutro per i viaggi, e la frequenza con cui il viaggio appare come 
topos in molti dei miei libri” (II, 633). The confusion is interesting here, because it 
suggests something about the relationship between biographical reality and the 
slightly displaced configuration of home and travel which characterizes Levi’s 
written work, where journeys, deportation, other places, imagined worlds — 
imagined or experienced, within the “whirlwind” of the Holocaust and beyond — 
pull at and test out the anchor of the home, and the baggage of associations, values, 
and sites that come with it. 

As so often with Levi, the strands of “La mia casa” (the natural bond of self 
and home; the rapport between home, memory and history; the impact of home on 
writing) are best brought together through reference to his intense fascination with 
language and etymology. In a later piece from L ’a/trui mestiere, entitled “Le parole 
fossili” (II, 819-22), Levi offers a gamut of instances where digging into the 
etymology of rare dialect terms has provided him with an intense, purely amateur 
pleasure (“il diletto incontaminato dei dilettanti,” II, 820). On this basis he makes 
one of his key declarations of temperament and (implicitly ethical) principle, 
allying himself with the eccentric and the oblique, with a preference for 
surreptitious details rather than sweeping panoramas, “single tiles rather than whole 
mosaics” (II, 820). But before this larger statement of principle, the first page of the 
essay is taken up with an extended example of the art of excavating a word, its 
history and value. The word in questions is “baita,’ which Levi first found many 
years previously in a book by Mario Rigoni Stern (// sergente della neve 29), 
recognized from his local Piedmontese dialects, which he used in his own work in 
due course (“Piombo”, // sistema periodico |, 813) and finally linked to a word in 
Hebrew, “bait.” When he confirms the Paleo-European connections between the 
shared terms and thus between threads of his own identity — his Judaism, his 
Piedmontese roots, and his war experience which ally him strongly to his friend 
Rigoni Stern — he is moved, imagining the word as an emblem of a “golden age,” 
before conflict, war, failed communication, before Babel. The word “baita” means, 
of course, shelter, safe-haven, or more commonly “home.” 


3. Améry, Levi, and “die Heimat” 
Levi’s fascinating, troubled, and strangely instructive dialogue from afar with the 


222 Robert S. C. Gordon 


Austrian-born Auschwitz survivor Jean Améry has been charted more than once 
before (Molino Signorini, Segre, Stille, Wood). For the most part, the dialogue and 
commentaries on it concentrated on a small number of intensely difficult questions: 
the definition and role of the intellectual in Auschwitz; the response to Nazi 
violence (Améry theorized notions of “returning the blow” and “resentment” as 
necessary positions for the maintenance of even a minimum of dignity; Levi’s more 
pacific response earned him the epithet of “forgiver” from Améry);'° the nature and 
meaning of suicide (first Améry’s in 1978 and then Levi’s own, nine years later); 
the role of national identity in governing the experience of deportation to 
Auschwitz. 

Without replaying their dialogue step by step, it is worth revisiting the last of 
these points of encounter and reconsidering it in the light of Levi’s particular 
attachment to a place and notion of home and its possible relation to an ethical 
mode of thinking and writing in his work. In his essay “L’intellettuale ad 
Auschwitz” (II, 1091-108), drawing on both Améry and on his own earlier work, 
Levi draws a distinction at the level of language. Alongside the terrible physical 
suffering of the Lager, figures such as Améry suffered a profoundly disturbing and 
alienating loss of their Germanic identity in cultural heritage and language, as the 
latter was barbarized and turned into the instrument of their torture and death. Levi 
and other Italians, by contrast, suffered another, more immediately dangerous 
predicament of alienation, in that they did not for the most part speak any German 
at all, nor even Yiddish, and thus were set apart from both guards and the mass of 
other prisoners in the most basic way. This distinction stands for a larger one 
between those like himself and those like Améry, which Levi summarizes neatly: 
“L’uno era deportato, |’altro uno straniero in patria” (II, 1097). Améry talks at 
greatest length about these questions of national identity, language, and its loss not 
in the title essay from his At The Mind’s Limits, which Levi discusses at greatest 
length in / sommersi e i salvati, but in another less noted piece entitled in German 
“Wieviel Heimat braucht der Mensch?” (Jenseits 71-100), in Levi’s Italian 
rendering, “Di quanta patria ha bisogno l’uomo?” (1, 1249),'' and in its English 
translation, “How Much Home Does a Person Need?” (Mind's Limit 41-61). 

The slight discrepancy in translation is understandable and significant, of 
course. It is well known that the German word Heimat marks out a potent semantic 
spectrum, tapped into throughout the modern evolution of the myth of German 
nationhood, which stretches from an image of the hearth, the local, folkloristic, 
intimate space of home, to the local region, and all the way to a grand Romantic 


'° Ameéry used the epithet in a letter exchanged with Levi via a third party (/ sommersi e i 
salvati, Il, 1098). See also Levi, Voice 111-12, 186. 

'' This quotation is taken from Levi’s tribute to Améry in La stampa on the latter's death 
in December 1978. Améry’s Jenseits was translated into Italian only in 1987, under the 
title L 'intellettuale ad Auschwitz, deliberately chosen to underline his connection to Levi. 


Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 223 


sense of nation, even race (Applegate; Boa).' And Améry in his essay draws on 
the full spectrum of meanings of his chosen term, well aware of the risk he is 
running, since to talk in positive terms of Heimat is almost to declare oneself as a 
reactionary, a nostalgic nationalist: ‘““The temper of the epoch is not favourable to 
the idea of homeland, that is obvious. Whoever hears talk of it immediately thinks 
of narrow nationalism, of territorial claims by associations of expellees, of things of 
the past” (Mind’s Limit 54). In part, the aim of his essay is to reclaim the term from 
its reactionary associations, since he is convinced that, for all the apparent buzz of 
modernity associated with exile or citizenship of the world, we are lesser beings 
without the rootedness of home: “[...] it is not good to have no home,” as the essay 
concludes (61). And he does so by probing the term and his memory of his own 
exile from Austria in Belgium, by salvaging the localized, intimate, and subjective 
qualities of Heimat in ways that chime interestingly with Levi’s use of the motif. 

Besides the association of home with language, and the loss of both, which 
Ameéry discusses at length in his essay and Levi analyses with consistent 
concentration throughout his oeuvre, two elements of ““How Much Home Does a 
Person Need?” help us fill out our understanding of the home as a marker of 
identity and ethics, as something more than a patria narrowly understood, and thus 
provide a basis for rereading Levi in this light. The first element strongly echoes 
“La mia casa”: for Améry too, the home is bound up with subjectivities, with 
objects, places, stories, and histories, and therefore with memory: 


What we call home still gives access to a reality that for us consists of perception through 
the senses. Unlike the physicist [...], we are dependent on seeing, hearing, touching. 
Perhaps I am not speaking only for my already declining generation of those around fifty 
when I say that we are accustomed to living with things that tell us stories. We need a house 
of which we know who lived in it before us, a piece of furniture in whose small irregularities 
we recognize the craftsman who worked on it. We need a city whose features stir at least 
faint memories of the old copperplate engraving in the museum. [...] Remembering. That is 


the cue [...]. 
(57) 


'? The term can also mean animal habitat, recalling Levi’s propensity for ethological 
vocabulary noted earlier (note 8). Some of the same ambiguity attaches to the word i/ 
paese (country and home village) in Italian, which Levi exploits in Se non ora, quando? 
(see below). It is also worth noting that Levi was not averse to using the category of 
national character to understand actions and events. Germans and Germanic character in 
particular seemed to represent key test-cases for analyzing the Holocaust. For example, 
his slight mistrust of Steinlauf, the Austrian in the camp who teaches him always to keep 
clean, however absurd it might seem, derives from a mistrust of Germanic absolutes; in / 
sommersi e i salvati, he associates Germans and the Final Solution with a certain 
“mancanza di misura” or “Masslosigkeit” (II, 1104); and in La tregua he contrasts 
German and Russian character more than once (1, 250, 263, 268). 


224 Robert S. C. Gordon 


It is worth noting that, in their shared conjoining of home, memories of objects and 
cities, and storytelling, each to different degrees bound up with the trauma of the 
experience and the storytelling of exile, deportation, and the loss of home, Améry 
and Levi are also echoing a paragraph of Benjamin’s famous essay: 


[...] people imagine the storyteller as someone who has come from afar. But they enjoy no 
less listening to the man who has stayed at home, making an honest living, and who knows 
the local tales and traditions. If one wants to picture these two groups [of storytellers] 
through their archaic representatives, one is embodied in the resident tiller of the soil, and 
the other in the trading seaman. 

(84-85)"° 


These two basic archetypes of storytellers found a level of interpenetration for 
Benjamin in the medieval artisan class, where the “resident master craftsman and 
the travelling journeymen worked together in the same rooms” (85). Thus “was 
combined the lore of faraway places, such as a much-travelled man brings home, 
with the lore of the past, as it best reveals itself to natives of a place” (85). In 
Benjamin’s mix of home and journeying, of craftsmen, artisans, and sea-farers, and 
all their stories, there is a bundle of archetypes and character types which pervade 
Levi’s work, not only as elements of narrative, but also as motifs of ethical 
enquiry.'* And in particular the reclaiming of home (‘But they enjoy no less [...]”), 
and the broad interpenetration of the two poles of home and afar that Benjamin 
evokes, befit Levi’s writing in particular, given its dual anchoring in the ordinary 
and the sedentary and in the uncommon, alien world of the camps. 

The second element to pick out of Améry’s essay emerges from his association 
of home with security, and it introduces an interpersonal and cognitive dimension 
into the category of home which is crucial in establishing its ethical dimension in 
Levi. Two extracts make the point: 


Home is security, | say. At home we are in full command of the dialectics of knowledge and 
recognition, of trust and confidence. [...] The entire field of the related words loyal, familiar, 
confidence, to trust, to entrust, trusting belongs in the broader psychological area of feeling 


secure. 
(47) 


I was a person who could no longer say “we” and who therefore said “I” merely out of habit, 
but not with the feeling of full possession of my self. [...] I was no longer I and did not live 


'> For connections between Benjamin and Levi, see Bodrato; Bertone 193-98; Giglioli; 
Gordon, Virtues (chapter 11). 

'4 A list of such characters in Levi’s work would be a long one, from Faussone in La 
chiave a stella to several of the characters encountered in // sistema periodico (in 
“Piombo”, “Mercurio”, “Oro”) to the “mirror-maker” of Racconti e saggi to Tischler, 
whom Levi met in the camps (Li/it). See Conclusion below. 











Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 225 


within a We. I had no passport, and no past, and no money, and no history. There was only a 
line of ancestors, but it consisted of sad landless knights, stricken by an anathema. 
(44) 


Levi too builds some of the soundest foundations of his ethics in a cluster of values 
that includes knowledge, community, friendship, recognition of the other, and trust 
— and so the possibility of saying “we” (Gordon, “Friendship”). Améry’s essay 
allows these elements to be bound up with a reworked notion of die Heimat, and 
thus to indicate that Levi's use of the imagery of /a casa might be less 
commonplace and uninteresting, less purely bound up with temperament and 
biographical accident, than might at first appear. 


4. “Vous n’étes pas 4 la maison” 

Quietly but forcefully, the motif of the home emerges at some of the most intense, 
climactic points of Levi’s oeuvre, a marker of identity and value in the face of their 
dissolution. This is true from the very outset of his work, in the poem (written in 
January 1946 and later published with the title “Shema”’) that stands as the epigraph 
to Se questo é un uomo (I, 3). If most attention in the poem is given over to the 
awful “mock” definition of man and woman, and their destruction (““Considerate se 
questo é un uomo [...] una donna”), and to the imperative to memory (“Vi 
commando queste parole. / Scolpitele nel vostro cuore [...]”), the image of the 
home appears twice, in the framing stanzas of the poem, as if acting as a control 
over those central concerns: 


Voi che vivete sicuri 

Nelle vostre case, 

Voi che trovate tornando a sera 
Il cibo caldo e visi amici: 
Considerate [...] 


O vi si sfaccia la casa, 
La malattia vi impedisca, 
I vostri nati torcano il viso da voi. 
(emphases added)'° 


The apostrophic nature of the poem, its angry interpellation of us, the readers, is at 
its strongest in these lines, since the image of the home, of security, of friends, of 


'S Like much of the poem, the image is a reworking of the “Shema” prayer, from 
Deuteronomy: “And thou shalt tell them to thy children, and thou shalt meditate upon 
them sitting in thy house, and walking on thy journey, sleeping, and rising” (6, vii). This 
text also connects Levi’s ethics of home to founding dynamics of attentiveness and 
respect in his ethics as a whole, dynamics of looking (“I vostri nati torcano il viso da 
voi’) and listening (“Shema”). 


226 Robert S. C. Gordon 


the tastes of warm food, of family (many of which Améry had also evoked) are the 
strongest tokens of a normality and a morality that Levi is threatening with 
annihilation if we do not heed the lesson of Auschwitz. The same sense of 
dissolution of the home is contained within the poem-epigraph to La tregua (also 
written in January 1946 and later entitled “Alzarsi”), transposed into an evocation 
of return: 


Ora abbiamo ritrovato la casa, 
I] nostro ventre é sazio, 
Abbiamo finito di raccontare. 
E tempo. Presto udremo ancora 
I] comando straniero: 
“Wstawac” 
(1, 203; emphasis added) 


Famously, the theme of this poem is reworked in prose in the final page of La 
tregua, where Levi has returned to Turin, but suffers from a recurring nightmare, 
that this return might turn out to be the dream, and that he will awake to the reality 
that Auschwitz is always and everywhere the only reality he has: 


[...] ed ecco, io so che cosa questo significa, ed anche so di averlo sempre saputo: sono di 
nuovo in Lager, e nulla era vero all’infuori del Lager. Il resto era breve vacanza, 0 inganno 
dei sensi, sogno: la famiglia, la natura in fiore, la casa. 

(I, 395) 


The Polish order “Wstawac” and the themes of the dream and return, bound up 
with imagery of telling stories and eating (““Tornare; mangiare; raccontare,” I, 203), 
first emerge in the chapter of Se questo é un uomo entitled “Le nostre notti,”” where 
Levi recounts the two dreams he and every other Lager inmate suffered from, a 
dream of returning and not being listened to and a dream of food that could not be 
eaten (I, 54-5; and again I, 64). Both are also dreams of home, of course; 
pathological dreams dictated by a bodily “homing” instinct, which in fact only 
renders the waking reality even worse. A few pages earlier, Levi had captured this 
pathology, this “home-sickness,” using the German term which Améry later uses 
also in his essay: “La baracca di legno, stipata di umanita dolente, € piena di parole, 
di ricordi e di un altro dolore. ‘Heimweh’ si chiama in tedesco questo dolore: € una 
bella parola, vuol dire ‘dolore della casa’” (1, 49). And he had reflected on the 
realization that struck him in the relative calm of the camp hospital, that the greatest 
danger of the camp system was not so much death as the shaming destruction of 
humanity. Once again, the imagery of home is central to this realization: “Se 
dall’interno del Lager un messaggio avesse potuto trapelare agli uomini liberi, 
sarebbe stato questo: fate di non subire nelle vostre case cid che a noi viene inflitto 
qui” (I, 49). 

If this cluster of moments in Levi’s work sets up the home as a powerful and 





Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 227 


persistent counterpoint to the worst offences of the “univers concentrationnaire,” a 
number of other moments in Se questo é un uomo contribute to building up our 
sense of the home as a touchstone for a series of ethical values growing out of that 
counterpoint. In “Il canto di Ulisse” (I, 105-11), for example, Levi and Jean il 
Pikolo strike up their conversation by sharing memories of home, in which local 
landscape or family stories are less important for their personal specificity than for 
the sharing itself: home here is a quality of being to be exchanged communally, 
forging a sort of temporary friendship which acts as a shelter or home from home. 
This quality is a particular form of Améry’s definition of home as security, as a 
place of protection and trust. And similar associations emerge from imagery found 
in Se questo é un uomo which in part is already familiar from our discussion of “La 
mia casa,” the animal imagery of the shell or the nest, and the Darwinian 
association of home with proper adaptation to an environment: 


La facolta umana di scavarsi una nicchia, di secernere un guscio, di erigersi intorno una 
tenue barriera di difesa, anche in circostanze apparentemente disperate, € stupefacente, e 
meriterebbe uno studio approfondito. Si tratta di un prezioso lavoro di adattamento, in 
parte passivo e inconscio, e in parte attivo: di piantare un chiodo sopra la cuccetta per 
appendervi le scarpe di notte; di stipulare taciti patti di non aggressione coi vicini; di 
intuire e accettare le consuetudini e le leggi del singolo Kommando e del singolo Block. 
In virti. di questo lavoro, dopo qualche settimana si riesce a raggiungere un certo 
equilibrio, un certo grado di sicurezza di fronte agli imprevisti, ci si € fatto un nido, il 


trauma del travasamento € superato. 
(I, 50) 


The activities of adaptation are a form of home-building; they entail creating an 
intimate, private space (even in the naked, ungiving space of the camp), 
establishing recognisable pacts for dealing with neighbours (even in the inevitably 
selfish competition for food in the camp), learning the rules (even in the 
incomprehensible Babel of the camp), so that some degree of predictability is 
attained (even in the arbitrary violence of the camp). All these elements — privacy, 
recognition, community, knowledge, and intelligent predictability — are forms of 
ordinary virtue with their origin in home-building, as an (animal) instinct but also 
an elected (humane, ethical) act. 

The loss of the habits of home at the outset of Levi’s account of deportation 
sets the former into particular relief in the early parts of Se questo é un uomo. One 
of the most moving moments in his entire oeuvre comes in the book’s first chapter, 
on the night before his deportation from the prison camp in Fossoli towards 
Auschwitz. It is built on precisely the poignant contrast between the everyday 
family habits of the home and its children (recalling the link between house and 
children in ‘“Shema”) and their desperate new meaning when performed at such a 
time and in such a place: 


[...] le madri vegliarono a preparare con dolce cura il cibo per il viaggio, e lavarono 1 


228 Robert S. C. Gordon 


bambini, e fecero i bagagli, [...] e non dimenticarono le fasce, e i giocattoli, e i cuscini, e 
le cento piccole cose che esse ben sanno, e di cui i bambini hanno in ogni caso bisogno. 
Non fareste anche voi altrettanto? Se dovessero uccidervi domani col vostro bambino, 
voi non gli dareste oggi da mangiare? 

(1,9) 


The intensity of the scene derives from its apparent ordinariness, and from the 
clutter of things that recalls the sense, in both “How Much Home Does a Person 
Need?” and “La mia casa,” of the home as a storehouse of familiar objects. 

The insight implicit in this rhetorical appeal is developed further as Levi 
describes the first impact of arrival in the Lager, in the chapter “Sul fondo,” 
where the everyday habits, the objects that make us at home, are the pivotal site 
for our identity and its loss, and also the centre of our moral compass: 


[...] consideri ognuno, quanto valore, quanto significato é racchiuso anche nelle piu 
piccole nostre abitudini quotidiane, nei cento oggetti nostri che il pil: umile mendicante 
possiede: un fazzoletto, una vecchia lettera, la fotografia di una persona cara. Queste cose 
sono parte di noi, quasi come membra del nostro corpo; [...]. 
Si immagini ora un uomo a cui, insieme con le persone amate, vengano tolti la sua casa, 
le sue abitudini, 1 suoi abiti, tutto infine, letteralmente tutto quanto possiede: sara un 
uomo vuoto, ridotto a sofferenza e bisogno, dimentico di dignita e discernimento, poiché 
accade facilmente a chi ha perso tutto, di perdere se stesso; [...]. 

(I, 21) 


The epithets “dignita” and “discernimento” are telling here, as if to have those 
everyday habits, a home, clothes (rather like the shell of the mollusc, and unlike the 
enforced nudity of the camps), loved ones, and the like is also to have human 
dignity and the capacity to judge, to make reasoned, rooted, ethical choices. 

The pages of Se questo é un uomo suggest that the loss of any such capacity 
was a defining characteristic of the so-called Muselmdnner, those who were so 
weakened and drained as to have lost all will, simply waiting to die (Agamben 37- 
80). Levi never quite reaches that state: as an earlier quotation suggests, he 
continues to follow a home-building instinct even using nails and ill-fitting shoes. A 
similar implicit ethical optimism allowed Levi to hold onto a notion of friendship 
even in a world of fleeting contacts and distrust such as that of the camp (Gordon, 
“Friendship” 190-91). This belief in the possibility, the usefulness of what Améry 
calls “ersatz” homes (44-45), sets Levi apart from Améry, echoing the degree to 
which his actual return home after Auschwitz set him apart from Améry, the 
permanent exile. These differences were not unproblematic for Levi, however; and 
in the course of his work after Se questo é un uomo, he explored along parallel 
tracks the two distinct archetypal (perhaps archetypically Jewish) experiences he 
and Améry might be said to stand for: exile and return home. 





Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 229 


5. Exile and Return 

The myth of the Jewish diaspora is one of wandering and exile but it is also a 
myth which dreams of return. Both Améry in “How Much Home Does a Person 
Need?” (44) and Levi in his poem “Pasqua” (II, 564) draw on the Passover 
prayer which promises, or yearns for, “next year in Jerusalem.” And both also 
rework the prayer: Améry characteristically detaching it from its literal 
realization and thus holding on to the tragic state of exile (“it wasn’t at all a 
matter of really getting to the Holy Land,” 44); Levi characteristically 
universalizing it, making return a dream of justice — “I’anno venturo in virtu e 
giustizia.” In two narrative works, published over twenty-years apart but with 
powerful formal and thematic parallels between them,'° Levi pursues a dialogue 
between exile and return which not only binds him to his Jewishness more than 
the rest of his work, but also allows him to work through the thematics of home 
beyond its emergence in Se questo é un uomo. The two works are La tregua and 
Se non ora, quando?. 

La tregua is the story of a journey home. Se non ora, quando? is the fiction 
of a journey (across large swathes of the same geographical space as La tregua 
traced out in the overlapping maps with itineraries that preface both books)'’ 
towards the unknown, towards a new life (in Palestine), and away from home, a 
home which in any case has been utterly destroyed. Between these 
simultaneously parallel and opposite trajectories, fantasies of home work their 
way to the very core of what the two books are about. In La tregua, it is self- 
evident that Levi’s struggle to get back to Turin and the often lengthy, 
inexplicable or rocambolesque delays in doing so define the book in its structure 
and its theme. At the end, the narrator pauses to look back over his journey into 
exile and then home again as a sort of swmma of all he has experienced: 


Avevamo resistito, dopo tutto: avevamo vinto. Dopo l’anno di Lager, di pena e di 
pazienza; dopo |’ondata di morte seguita alla liberazione; dopo il gelo e la fame e il 
disprezzo e la fiera compagnia del greco; dopo le malattie e la miseria di Katowice; dopo 
i trasferimenti insensati, per cui c’eravamo sentiti dannati a gravitare in eterno attraverso 
gli spazi russi, come inutili astri spenti; dopo l’ozio e la nostalgia acerba di Starye 
Doroghi, eravamo in risalita, dunque, in viaggio all’in su, in cammino verso casa. 

(1, 370) 


More telegraphically, the emotional force of the book explodes in the cries at an 
announcement that the journey towards Italy is to begin, cries which could 
almost stand as the battlecry of the whole narrative: “A casa! a casa!” (I, 296). 


'© Besides the geographical and cartographical links noted below, La tregua and Se non 
ora, quando? share more or less overlapping chronologies, cultural milieux (a mix of 
Russian, Yiddish, Ukrainian, Greek, and German elements), endpoints (Northern Italy as 
safety), humour, and temperament. 

'7:On maps, see Levi, Voice 136; Belpoliti, Levi 114-15. 


230 Robert S. C. Gordon 


Indeed, part of the strength of the book as narrative lies in the fact that it is not 
just Levi who is drawn towards home, but also the variegated group of former 
deportees in his same situation, and the whole maelstrom of different individuals 
and groups all pushing for home across the chaos of post-war Europe. Cesare, 
Levi’s closest companion, abandons the groups near the end of the journey in 
order to fulfil his grand pledge, to reach home by air (Levi tells the story of his 
return in Lilit II, 54-8); the straggling convoys of the Russian army heading for 
home pass through Starye Doroghi, on foot, horse, cart, motorbike, tank, tractor, 
even bus, a running spectacle of vitality and exhaustion (I, 342-4). Even when 
Levi reaches Germany, his questioning of how the Germans he sees could 
possibly live with a clean conscience is filtered through the imagery of return: 
““Sapevano, ‘loro’, di Auschwitz, della strage siienziosa e quotidiana, a un passo 
dalle loro porte? Se si, come potevano andare per via, tornare a casa e guardare i 
loro figli [...]?” (II, 392; with echoes of “Shema’”). 

Finally, one moment in La tregua reminds us of the baggage of values that 
the home brings with it in Levi, its marking of an ethical position as well as an 
object of affective nostalgia, here indicated by the association of home with a 
vision of utopia. At one of the early wrong turnings in his journey, Levi reflects 
that the search for home, or even for a surrogate of home (“un surrogato 
accettabile delle nostre case,” I, 229) was part of a larger search for “un mondo 
diritto e giusto, miracolosamente ristabilito sulle sue naturali fondamenta dopo 
una eternita di stravolgimenti, di errori e di stragi” (I, 229; with echoes of 
‘““Pasqua”’). The journey to his real home, for Levi, is then in part a series of 
disappointments, a puncturing of utopian hopes; but it is also a reconciliation, a 
reacquisition of the less grand values and virtues that his real, ordinary world 
and “its natural foundations” are built on. Hence, the renaissance of friendship, 
humour, and play, wit and inventiveness, shrewd intelligence, shared endeavour, 
self-sufficiency, and all the other vital “ordinary virtues” that characterize Levi’s 
adventures in La tregua are readable as part of the journey home, of the 
sloughing off of both dystopia (Auschwitz) and illusory utopia (the just world) 
along the way. 

The motif of home and its irretrievable loss emerges in Se non ora, quando? 
largely through the memories of its protagonist Mendel, which represent the 
terrible homelessness of the group of Jewish partisans he joins and by extension 
of the canvas of Eastern European Jewry in so far as it survived at all. Mendel is 
haunted by the destruction of his home village Strelka and the death of his wife. 
The very first words of the novel set us along this path of nostalgia and trauma: 
‘Al mio paese, di orologi ce n’erano pochi [...]” (II, 211). And the first chapter 
continues to evoke images of Strelka, an ordinary, even banal village of ducks 
and goats, a church and a synagogue (“si chiama Strelka, come chissa quanti altri 
paesi,” II, 212), which now in its very ordinariness seems like the “Garden of 
Eden” to Mendel (II, 212): “questa Strelka non c’é pill. Meta dei paesani si sono 
sparsi per la campagna e per il bosco, e I’altra meta stanno in una fossa” (II, 








Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 231 


212). Throughout the chapter and the book, the poignant paradoxes of fighting 
for and remembering a home that is no longer there reappear, complicating 
questions of responsibility, posing problems of private and public identity, and 
morality: 


“Ne uccideresti uno [pilota] se l’aereo volasse? Se ti portasse a casa?” 
“Quale casa?”, disse Mendel: Leonid non rispose. 
(II, 225) 


“Fai l’eroe, ma anche tu vuoi quello che voglio io, una casa, un letto, una donna, una vita 
che abbia un senso, una famiglia, un paese che sia iI tuo paese.” 
(II, 242) 


Si faceva sentire il rimpianto della casa, pesante per tutti, straziante per il gruppo degli 
ebrei. Per i russi, la speranza della casa era una speranza non irragionevole, anzi 
probabile: un desiderio di ritorno, un richiamo. Per gli ebrei, il rimpianto delle loro case 
non era una speranza ma una disperazione, sepolta fino allora sotto dolori pit urgenti e 
gravi, ma latente. Le loro case non c’erano piu: erano state spazzate via, incendiate dalla 
guerra o dalla strage, insanguinate dalle squadre dei cacciatori-uomini; case-tomba, a cui 
era meglio non pensare, case di cenere. Perché vivere ancora, perché combattere? Per 


quale casa, per quale patria, per quale avvenire? 
(II, 319; emphasis added; and compare II, 504-05) 


“[...] andremo in Palestina, e cercheremo di costruirci la casa che abbiamo perduta.” 
(II, 390) 


Dov’é la mia casa? E in nessun luogo. [...] Uno entra in una casa e appende gli abiti e i 
ricordi; dove appendi i tuoi ricordi, Mendel figlio di Nachman? 
(II, 441; echoes of the nail on which to hang one’s shoes, Se questo é un uomo I, 50) 


What is clear from this medley of concordant notes is that the home, in its loss, 
continues to sustain a set of values, to be the origin of an ethical voice and 
position: the home is, as we have seen above, a space of memory (and 
memorial), of intimacy and shared identity, or normalcy, of a coherence on 
which to found right action (such as fighting Nazism) and a vision of a possible 
future. From such a space, action, memory, and language are open to the ethical, 
to the working through of the choices and dilemmas of how to live; without such 
a space, without even a notion of home left intact, the ethical is, like the homes, 
swept away, unthinkable. 


6. Conclusion: Ulysses 

The home in Levi brings together several different shapes and categories. It is 
part narrative archetype, as Benjamin suggested, a site for and source for stories, 
in conjunction with the sites and sources of journeys and places far from home. 
It is part affect, memory, privacy, and personal intimacy, which becomes the 


232 Robert S. C. Gordon 


excruciating Heimweh for Levi and Améry when it is stripped away. It is, in 
small part, a vessel of a certain bourgeois, provincial and/or patriotic set of 
values (like many of Levi’s ethical categories, it grows out of a certain liberal 
bourgeois cultural heritage that he acquired in Turin, but is radically recast in the 
face of Auschwitz). Finally, however, it acts as a sort of gatekeeper to the 
ethical, opening up categories of knowledge and acknowledgement, reasoned, 
felt choice, clarity and attentiveness as the ordinary virtues of the lived life, of 
what we might call the “domestic” life. And as if to underline that these 
categories of the ethical are “domestic” qualities not bound to one person’s home 
or another’s throughout his work, Levi preserves a privileged place for the 
archetypal wanderers who carry with them, snail-like, their home-forged 
wisdom, their craft on their backs. Faussone, in La chiave a Stella, is an 
affectionately mocked version of the wanderer-craftsman, but the epitome of the 
archetype for Levi is the seafarer: not so much, however, the demented, 
transgressive, heroic seafarer such as the Ancient Mariner, Melville’s Ahab, 
Dante’s Ulisse (all crucial models for Levi in certain ways), but rather the 
practised, knowledgeable, crafty seafarers of Conrad, Vercel or Homer’s 
Odyssey. It is Homer’s Ulysses that Levi brings to mind in one of his most 
ethically alert and illuminating encounters, with the crew of the submarine 
‘“Castoro 6,” written up in the essay “Trenta ore sul Castoro sei” (II, 704-10): 


nelle loro parole, frenate, educate, precise e prive di enfasi, ho riconosciuto l’eco della 
voce di un altro navigatore e raccontatore le cui avventure remote sono oggi poesia 
eterna: quello che aveva navigato per dieci anni per mari strani, e le cul virt prime, piu 
assai del coraggio che pure non gli mancava, furono la pazienza e |’ingegno molteplice. 
(II, 710) 


It is not as paradoxical as it may seem for literature’s greatest journeyer to 
embody Levi’s domestic ethics, since it is surely no coincidence that, where 
Dante’s Ulisse heads towards the open sea, the unknown world, and death, 
Homer’s Ulysses, like Levi in La tregua, wearily and after many trials, heads for 
home. 


Cambridge University 


Primo Levi and the Ethics of Home 233 


Works Cited 


Adorno, Theodor and Max Horkheimer. Dialectic of Enlightenment. London: Verso, 
1997. 

Agamben, Giorgio. Quel che resta di Auschwitz. L'archivio e il testimone. Torino: Bollati 
Boringhieri, 1998. 

Amery, Jean. At The Mind’s Limits. Trans. Sidney and Stella P. Rosenfeld. London: 
Granta, 1999. 

. Jenseits von Schuld und Stihne. Munich: Szczesny Verlag, 1966. 
. L‘intellettuale ad Auschwitz. Torino: Bollati Boringhieri, 1987. 

Amsallem, Daniela. “I|luminista.” Belpoliti 361-71. 

Applegate, Celia. A Nation of Provincials. The German Idea of Heimat. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1990. 

Arendt, Hannah. Eichmann in Jerusalem. A Report on the Banality of Evil. 
Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1979. 

Bauman, Zygmunt. Postmodern Ethics. Oxford: Blackwell, 1993. 

Bedani, G., et al. Sguardi sull’Italia. Leeds: W. S. Maney/Society for Italian Studies 
Occasional Papers n. 3, 1997. 

Bellos, David. Georges Perec. A Life in Words. London: Harvill, 1993. 

Belpoliti, Marco, ed. Primo Levi. Riga 13. Milano: Marcos y Marcos, 1997. 

Belpoliti, Marco. Primo Levi. Milano: Mondadori, 1998. 

.“Animali.” Belpoliti 157-209. 

Benjamin, Walter. “The Storyteller. Reflections of the Works of Nikolai Leskov.” 
Illuminations. Ed. Hannah Arendt. Trans. Harry Zohn. London: Jonathan Cape, 
1970. 83-109. 

Bertone, Giorgio. “Italo Calvino e Primo Levi.” /talo Calvino. I! castello della scrittura. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1994. 191-98. 

Boa, Elizabeth. Heimat — A German Dream. Regional Loyalties and National Identity in 
German Culture 1890-1990. Oxford: Oxford UP, 2000. 

Bobbio, Norberto. Trent’anni di storia della cultura a Torino (1920-1950). Torino: 
Cassa di Risparmio di Torino, 1977. 

Bodrato, Aldo. “Nel racconto la verita di Auschwitz.” Humanitas 44.1 (February 1989): 
51-73. 

Booth, Wayne C. The Company We Keep. Berkeley: U of California P, 1988. 

Burdett, Charles. “Journeys to the Other Spaces of Fascist Italy.” Modern Italy 5.1 
(2000): 7-24 

Cavaglion, Alberto. “‘Argon’ e la cultura ebraica piemontese.” Belfagor 43.5 (September 
1988): 541-62. 

. “Asimmetrie.” Belpoliti 222-9. 

Cesaretti, Enrico. Castelli di carta: Retorica della dimora tra scapigliatura e 
surrealismo. Diss. Yale U, 1997. 

D’Orsi, Angelo. La cultura a Torino tra le due guerre. Torino: Einaudi, 2000. 

Foucault, Michel. “Of Other Spaces.” Diacritics (Spring 1986): 22-27. 

Giglioli, Daniele. “Narratore.” Belpoliti 397-408. 


234 Robert S. C. Gordon 


Gordon, Robert. “Primo Levi: On Friendship.” Bedani et al. 284-94. 
. Primo Levi's Ordinary Virtues. From Testimony to Ethics. Oxford: Oxford UP, 

2001. 

Levi, Primo. Opere. Vols 1-2. Ed. Marco Belpoliti. Torino: Einaudi, 1997. 

. The Voice of Memory. Interviews 1961-1987. Ed. Marco Belpoliti and Robert 

Gordon. Trans. Robert Gordon. New York: New Press, 2001. 

Levra, Umberto, and Nicola Tranfaglia, eds. Torino fra liberalismo e fascismo. Milano: 
Franco Angeli, 1987. 

Molino Signorini, Franca. “‘Uomini fummo’. . . . Riflessioni su Primo Levi e Jean 
Améry.” Rassegna mensile di Israel 57.3 (September-December 1991): 463-78. 

Newton, Adam Zachary. Narrative Ethics. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1995. 

Nussbaum, Martha. Love's Knowledge. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1990. 

Nystedt, Jane. Le opere di Primo Levi viste al computer. Osservazioni stilolinguistiche. 
Stockholm: Acta Universitatis Stockholmiensis / Almquist and Wiskell, 1993. 

Rigoni Stern, Mario. // sergente della neve. Torino: Einaudi Scuola, 1990. 

Rorty, Richard. /rony, Contingency and Solidarity. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1989. 

Roth, Philip. “A Man Saved by his Skills.” Levi, Voice 13-22. 

Segre, Cesare. Ritorno alla critica. Torino: Einaudi, 2001. 

Shklar, Judith. Ordinary Vices. Cambridge (Mass): Bellknap, 1984. 

Spence, Jonathan D. The Memory Palace of Matteo Ricci. New York: Viking Penguin, 
1984. 

Stille, Alexander. “Introduction.” Jean Améry. At the Mind's Limits. New York: 
Schoben, 1990. vii-xv. 

Taylor, Charles. Sources of the Self’ The Making of Modern Identity. Cambridge: UP, 
1989. 

Todorov, Tsvetan. Face a /'extréme. Paris: Seuil, 1991 

Wood, Nancy. “The Victim’s Resentments.” Modernity, Culture and “the Jew.” Ed. 
Bryan Cheyette and Laura Marcus. Cambridge: Polity, 1998. 

Yates, Frances. The Art of Memory. London: Harmondsworth, 1969. 





Sergio Parussa 





Literature in Question: Figuring Auschwitz 
and Redefining Literature in Post-Holocaust Theatre 


On a warm February morning of 1967, a woman wakes up in her bed and no 
longer knows how to speak: she asks for a soft coffee and a less bitter pillow, 
fresh clean eggs and boiled sheets, and greets the rising sun as the start of a 
beautiful evening. When her sister tries to bring her back to the law of reference 
which ties things to their names, she replies that their reality is a dream, an 
illusion, because she has just dreamt of another truer and happier world. 

So begins the third and last part of Calderon, a play on social alienation 
written by Pier Paolo Pasolini in 1966. Ina still fascist Spain, a woman wakes up 
in three different places — first as a girl in an aristocratic family in Madrid, then 
as a prostitute in a Barcelona slum, and finally as a member of a bourgeois 
family. At each awakening, she finds herself in a place which she does not 
recognize as her own: “Ma io ieri non ero qui,” she repeats three times, “non ci 
sono mai stata, non riconosco niente / di quello che c’é qui” (Calderén 12). On 
awaking, she refuses to acknowledge that her social class is the place to which 
she belongs, and that her social life is her true life. 

Mixing the Marxist theory of social alienation with the Heideggerian notion 
of Being, Calderon presents modern society as an inescapable social cage. Our 
true reality lies, in fact, in the dream of an elsewhere: a place and a time where 
once we were and which we remember with a persistent, if vague, memory. In 
the end, when the woman wakes up in a bourgeois family, the surrounding world 
is more foreign to her than it has ever been before. According to stage directions, 
in fact, the setting for this last part of the play should resemble a concentration 
camp dormitory. But on this woman’s last awakening, her dream coincides with 
her reality: “La mia vera vita non si svolge in una reggia, / né in una torre, né in 
una casa piccolo borghese: / la mia vera vita si svolge, in realta, / in un lager, in 
un gelo tenebroso” (Calderon 179-80). The place where she dreams she is, is the 
place where she really is, in the concentration camp. “Da ora in poi,” says her 
husband Basilio, “non ci saranno pit altri luoghi dove risvegliarsi” (Calderon 
176). So her aphasia, the language disturbance which prevents her from calling 
things by their names, stands out as the ultimate sign of a complete alienation 
from her bourgeois life, and in general, as the sign of a full transformation of 
modern civilization into a concentrationary universe (Rousset). 

According to the accounts of concentration camp survivors, language was 
the most sensitive detector of the crime perpetrated against humankind in lagers. 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


236 Sergio Parussa 


Some of the most eloquent pages written by Primo Levi are meditations on the 
limitations of language in the face of the horrors of concentration camps. In 
Auschwitz, he wrote in Se questo € un uomo, one became aware of the 
irremediable lack of words to express the greatest of horrors: the systematic 
demolition of a man (23). Because its purpose was not communication but 
oppression, language in Auschwitz disintegrated into a Babel of 
incomprehensible foreign words, meaningless screams, stifled cries, and silence. 
Comprehension of German was a watershed, a question of life or death. When it 
was not understood by prisoners, an order was not rephrased, but repeated word 
for word in a loud angry voice, and then screamed as if one were addressing pets 
“piu sensibili al tono che al contenuto del messaggio” (/ sommersi e i salvati 70). 
In Mauthausen, as Levi remembers having read in Marsalek, the rubber 
truncheon was called der Dolmetscher, the interpreter, “quello che si faceva 
capire da tutti” (71). In other words, in concentration camps the law of reference 
was broken and twisted to the extent of creating the need for a new language, for 
new harsh words to express a universe “al di qua del bene e del male” (1958, 
70). “Se i Lager fossero durati pit a lungo,” writes Primo Levi, “un nuovo aspro 
linguaggio sarebbe nato” (1958, 110). As “hunger,” in concentration camp 
vocabulary, is not a word which expresses the feeling of missing a meal, and 
“tiredness” is not what one would feel at the end of a day of work, so “winter” 
does not express one’s way of being cold: 


PRIMO UOMO: Noi diciamo “inverno” e sappiamo che cosa vuol dire. 
QUARTO UOMO: Vuol dire che sette su dieci di noi morranno 
(Se questo é un uomo. Versione drammatica 75) 


In the face of the impossibility of calling things by their names and of 
separating good from evil, language breaks down into aphasia, and ultimately 
into the silence of the drowned, the nameless prisoners left without voices and 
words to express their inhuman condition. 

Whether it is the result of a poetic insight or of a reading of memoirs of 
concentration camps survivors, the character’s aphasia in Calderon also tells of a 
language which is disturbed, and doomed to silence, because of an impossibility 
of separating right from wrong, good from evil. Just as in Se questo é un uomo 
the twisted and tortured language is a sign of the inhuman conditions of the 
concentration camp, so in Ca/derén the woman’s aphasia is the sign of her entry 
into a concentrationary universe. 

A distinction, however, is necessary. When a subject as complex and 
controversial as the Holocaust is at stake — a subject which has undergone 
frequent attempts at distorting its truth and even denying its existence — one 
ought to keep comparable experiences clearly separate. One thing is the 
condition of prisoners in concentration camps; another is present human 
conditions in Western civilization. 








Literature in Question: Figuring Auschwitz and Redefining Literature 237 


Now in regard to the Holocaust as a subject suitable for the stage, one 
should distinguish between two types of texts: those which present the Holocaust 
in a factual and predominantly historical mode, and those which present it 
predominantly as metaphor. Ideally, the former are meditations on the Holocaust 
as a specific historical event, whereas the latter make reference to the Holocaust 
as metaphor for current social and political issues. Good examples of what one 
could call historical theatre are the dramatized version of Se questo é un uomo 
(1966) — written by Primo Levi himself in collaboration with the Italian actor 
Pieralberto Marché — and Bent (1979), the renowned play by Martin Sherman 
in which love between two gay men becomes a form of resistance to the brutality 
of concentration camps. 

Plays that use the Holocaust as metaphor, however, are not realistic 
accounts of a period in history, but meditations on current political issues. Their 
historical settings, in fact, are used in the way ancient Greek and Roman 
playwrights used myths: as pretexts to make another discourse. In Calderon, for 
instance, the Holocaust is a metaphor for the genocide of pre-modern cultures 
perpetrated by the bourgeoisie through industrial and technological revolutions, 
a metaphor for the end of modern Western civilization. According to the author’s 
vision, in unveiling the true nature of modernity — its hurtling toward self- 
destruction — the Holocaust anticipates the near end of that civilization. 
Consequently, the postwar years are nothing but an extension of the same world 
that has conceived and produced Auschwitz, continuing the slow agony of a 
social body whose death sentence has already been passed. 

Similar discomforting parallels are at work in A Bright Room Called Day, a 
political drama staged in 1985 by the American playwright Tony Kushner. The 
play follows a group of artists and political activists who are trying to preserve 
their lives and their ideals in 1930s Berlin, in the face of the collapse of all 
democratic institutions. Throughout the play, the character Zillah Katz, a 
contemporary American Jewish woman, brings the audience beyond the play’s 
historical setting by drawing parallels between the Weimar Republic of the 
1930s and the Reagan era. Even though the play does not go so far to suggest an 
identity between “now” and “then,” its development is darkened by the shadow 
of the imminent genocide. “The play’s story,” writes the author in an afterword 
to the play’s published version, ‘ends before the worst nightmare begins, but its 
ending looks to the camps” (180). In both 4 Bright Room Called Day and 
Calderon, the Holocaust hangs over the play as a warning for our political 
present and future. 

Of course, every attempt at classification is limited and provisional; it is just 
a pretext to outline a discourse. The line I have drawn between two different 
types of plays is an ideal one. Historical plays, in fact, can contain a message for 
our political present, just as metaphorical plays can influence our way of looking 
at the Holocaust. Nonetheless, in the former the historical setting is mainly self- 
referential, whereas in the latter it refers primarily to the political present. Plays 


238 Sergio Parussa 


like Calderon and A Bright Room are allegories since they try to keep both the 
literal and figurative meanings — the historical setting and its general reference 
to the contemporary world — present at the same time. So future adaptations of 
the play need to update, without over-diluting, the historical references intended 
by the playwright: 


Ideally there should be a continual updating [...] in the form of references to whatever 
evildoing is prevalent at the time of the production. Though I think she [Zillah] should 
stay true to the zeit informing her particular geist, namely the Reagan era, there might be 
politically useful emendations made, if intelligently done. 

(Kushner x-xi) 


What is at stake here is the balance between a strong need to discuss current 
political issues in theatre and a search for modes to convey them. At the core of 
these plays, in fact, political urgencies struggle with aesthetics. In A Bright 
Room, Kushner questions the necessity of metaphorizing political content in 
theatre: “Why, I wondered, shouldn’t audiences hear an unapologetically 
didactic, presentational voice as well as representational scenes?” (x). Similarly, 
in Calderon, Pasolini questions the very nature of realistic theatre, wondering 
how a fundamentally anti-bourgeois story can be represented using theatre, a 
means of expression which is the quintessence of bourgeois ritual. In A Bright 
Room, the solution adopted to solve this tension is the Zillah Katz character, who 
interrupts the action of the play with references to Reagan politics. In Calderon, 
a character named Speaker — an updated version of the traditional prologue of 
ancient Greek and Roman plays — explains to the audience that the contrast 
between the polemical anti-bourgeois content of the play and its realistic, 
detailed, historical setting is a productive contradiction. In its uncertainty, the 
contradiction should reveal the striking contrast between the pleasure enjoyed by 
the bourgeoisie in the ritual of theatre and the horror which is represented on 
stage. In a sort of revival of a Brechtian type of theatre, both Zillah and the 
Speaker unveil for the audience the metaphorical nature of what is happening on 
stage. Nothing here is real, their presence seems to say, but rather a pretence, 
since this is not the theatre of the fourth wall. 

This problematic balance has implications of a theoretical and a pedagogical 
nature. From a theoretical point of view, these plays broaden the meaning of 
totalitarianism and the Holocaust, extending it from a mere historical sense to a 
wider theoretical one. Historical events, in fact, become abstract categories used 
to explain and criticize contemporary Western society. As the epitome of 
genocide, the Holocaust becomes a general theoretical model which can be used 
to understand both the recent past and the present. On the other hand, widening 
its meaning can have the problematic implication of watering down its historical 
specificity. It is a form of cultural appropriation that, today, has also begun to 








Literature in Question: Figuring Auschwitz and Redefining Literature 239 


involve cinema.’ 

Now that the Holocaust has become a Hollywood subject, there exists the 
risk that it might end up like one of those words which, by dint of use, are worn 
out, have lost their significance, and become ineffectual. Instead of being an 
unicum, the Holocaust could turn into an intellectual gimmick useful for 
discussing both all forms of brutality and none. In other words, the metaphor 
ought to remain a metaphor, not become an identity. In fact, it is productive as 
long as one keeps in mind its figurative meaning. Abuse could turn it into a sort 
of a catachresis, a figure in which one does not distinguish anymore between 
literal and figurative meanings. Otherwise, every time we talk about the camps as 
metaphor, our present time will become invisible, and the Holocaust will become 
just an icon of pain, crystallized in the comforting and immutable realm of 
martyrdom. 

Such defilement of memory was a lifelong preoccupation for Primo Levi. 
Every generalization, banalization, or exaggeration about the Holocaust upset his 
analytical mind, because it impeded his efforts at reading the most irrational 
phenomenon in modern history with a rational mind. Thus, when one reads about 
the presence of Holocaust imagery in a work of art, one should wonder whether 
there exists a danger of mystification. Aestheticism, in fact, is a constant danger, 
for using Auschwitz as a literary locus could turn it into a place of the 
imagination. For example, when the woman in Calderon tells of her dream of a 
concentration camp, her words are suffused with pathos. In her account, 
concentration camp bunks are /eftucci (“tiny little beds”), where prisoners. 
whose arms are braccine (“little arms”) and whose legs looks as thin as fetuses’ 
legs, lay still while holding tight their few miserable possessions. All her words 
evoke a sense of self-compassion and self-congratulation for this personal and 
collective misfortune. Moreover, according to stage directions, the entire scene 
should reproduce an historical document: a photograph of a dormitory in a 
concentration camp. Audiences should look at this scene as if they were looking 
at a photograph yellowed with age, that is, in the same tender, dim light and with 
the same moved look with which one would flip through the pages of a family 
photo album. Finally, a smile comes to the prisoners’ faces, and it is not a smile 
of hope but a smile of complicity: “Una sola liberta ci rimane: quella di tradirci. / 
E infatti, ognuno di noi, cova / [...] il desiderio di poter finalmente ammiccare / 
ai suoi padroni” (Ca/derdn 181). The woman’s sentimental words imply a desire 
for complicity between victims and persecutors; what she is truly dreaming about 
is self-destruction. The bourgeoisie — and this seems to be the ultimate word of 
the play — desires its own destruction. The play implies that in modern Western 
society where everybody has become bourgeois, everyone participates in a 


' On the subject of cultural appropriation, Novick investigates the high level of cultural 
visibility reached by the Holocaust in American society, and its meaning for American 
Jews and, in general, for American society. 


240 Sergio Parussa 


collective plan for self-annihilation and for the complete destruction of 
civilization. 

On more than one occasion, Primo Levi objected to this theory. He often 
said that in Auschwitz there was a clear difference between victims and their 
persecutors. At times the difference was sfumata but it was there. If he wrote 
extensively on the existence of a gray zone in concentration camps — the name 
he applies to the conditions of those prisoners who in differing degrees were 
willing to collaborate with their persecutors — he also believed that there was 
always some form of resistance to the absolute arbitrariness of power. In a lager, 
as well as in a totalitarian system, there is always a very important quasi, a 
fundamental a/most: 


[Nella] struttura gerarchica dello Stato totalitario [...] un controllo dal basso é@ quasi 
impossibile. Ma questo “quasi” € importante: non é mai esistito uno Stato che fosse 
realmente “totalitario sotto questo aspetto. 

(J sommersi e i salvati 33) 


Thus, Levi wrote that a film like Liliana Cavani’s The Night Porter (1974), 
in which the story of a sexual relationship between a prisoner and an SS officer 
becomes a symbol of the victim-persecutor dynamics that characterize human 
relationships, is technically beautiful but morally false. Through _ its 
aesthetization of life in concentration camps, the film confuses the victim with 
the persecutor and vice versa, making any claim to justice fruitless.” 

However, historical pessimism and aestheticism are not the only results of a 
figurative use of the Holocaust. Unlike Ca/deron which predicts the approaching 
end of Western civilization, A Bright Room is a play intended as a warning 
signal. Similarly, in The Normal Heart, written in 1985 by the American 
playwright Larry Kramer, the metaphoric use of the Holocaust seems to be the 
vehicle for a useful historical lesson. The play tells the story of Ned Weeks, an 
AIDS activist who defies the political establishment for ignoring the spread of 
the epidemic and challenges the gay community for having made sexual 
promiscuity the center of gay politics. In The Normal Heart, as well as in its 
sequel The Destiny of Me (1992) and in the collection of political writings 
Reports from the Holocaust: The Making of an AIDS Activist (1989), Kramer 
turns to the Holocaust as metaphor for the AIDS epidemic. He writes of an 
“AIDS Holocaust” and of an “intentional genocide,” and draws _ parallels 
between the extermination of European Jews during the thirties and forties and 


* It is important to note that Primo Levi also expressed his disagreement with Pasolini’s 
depiction of totalitarianism. With regard to his film Sa/6 — a film in which the last days 
of the Italian fascist republic of Salo become the symbol of the absolute, uncontested evil 
which dominates our world — Levi said: “Non era cosi, non é€ vero che fosse cosi. 
Questa ferocia totale non é esistita. C’era un’ampia zona grigia. Anzi era quasi integrale. 
Allora eravamo tutti grigi” (Belpoliti 251). 


Literature in Question: Figuring Auschwitz and Redefining Literature 24] 


the devastation of the gay community. “Is an organization like Gay Health Men 
Crisis,” he wonders, “in any way like the Jewish councils set up during World 
War II to help the Germans exterminate them?” (Reports 229). Kramer’s intent 
is clearly provocative and polemical. Drawing parallels between AIDS and the 
Holocaust means, in fact, raising the issue of responsibility. It means questioning 
why the epidemic happened, how it spread the way it did, and who could be 
blamed for it. According to the notes for the play’s production, the set walls 
should be painted with figures, facts, and names which are evidence of 
individual and collective responsibilities for both the Final Solution and the 
spread of AIDS: from the number of pages dedicated to the epidemic by 
American newspapers to the amount of public money allocated for education, 
research, and community service. One entire wall, then, should contain a passage 
on the responsibilities of International Jewish organizations for the failed rescue 
of European Jews (The Normal Heart 21-22). Ned, the main character in The 
Normal Heart and the author’s alter ego, is an aggressive and unpleasant man, 
but the taste that the play leaves in one’s mouth is one of hope and resistance. 
Unlike European Jews during World War II, runs the play’s underlying message, 
gay men should not be victims. 


FELIX: [...] This is not World War Two. The numbers are nowhere remotely 
comparable. And all analogies to the Holocaust are tired, overworked, boring, probably 
insulting, possibly true, and a major turnoff. 
NED: Are they? 

(The Normal Heart 51-52) 


For Ned — and for Kramer — history is memory put into action, and 
historical analogies are useful narrative tools to understand and improve the 
present. In an explicit reference to Primo Levi, Kramer states that AIDS, like 
Auschwitz, leaves in those who survive it the necessity to tell their stories over 
and over again. It leaves behind the imperative to testify (Reports 227). 

As for implications of a pedagogical nature, theatre has always had didactic 
capabilities. Traditionally, schools and churches resorted more to theatre than to 
any other form of art in order to fulfill their educational goals. Pedagogical 
features are even more evident in a theatre that claims to be political, a theatre 
that through discussions of social and political issues tries to make of writing a 
political act. It is no surprise, then, if Pasolini, Kushner, and Kramer 
distinguished themselves as playwrights as well as political activists. 

Now in choosing totalitarianism and the Holocaust as metaphors for 
modernity, these plays seem to anticipate a world in which the conquered and the 
victim (not the conqueror and the persecutor) will be ethical models. Not kings 
or queens, explorers, navigators, or soldiers, but victims: women brutalized by 
the social environment in which they happened to be born; young intellectuals 
silenced by a totalitarian government; gay men killed by an unknown virus. It is 


242 Sergio Parussa 


worth noticing that authors of recent history textbooks tend to replace national 
history with history of persecuted minorities. On high-school students’ desks, 
accounts of the genocide of Native Americans sit next to accounts of military 
and political efforts to found the nation. Even though this change is undoubtedly 
valuable, there is an ambiguity which comes with it. Anne Frank, for instance, 
can stand out as a hero of resistance to racism and discrimination or become an 
icon of submission to a fatal, unavoidable destiny and self-sacrifice. If one shifts 
the focus from the way she lived to the way she died, her figure, from a model 
for struggle against injustice, can become a model for identification with the 
victim. In other words, Auschwitz can be, at the same time, the symbol of the 
worse moral degeneration of human kind, or the sanctuary of a collective 
martyrdom. 

As far as theatre is concerned, the presence of references to the Holocaust 
on stage raises similar problems. Of course, playwrights do not necessarily 
expect their audience to identify with their plays’ characters, more than they 
would expect them to analyze and understand critically their plays. They know 
that an audience is always half way in between an ingenuous and an analytical 
attitude. Nonetheless, political theatre is a form of art that demands that its 
audience take a stand, and as such, it directs most of its formal efforts and its 
aesthetics towards the attainment of its political goals. Of course, it is not a 
question of suggesting the creation of an edifying art, but of analyzing critically 
the way in which theatre makes use of the Holocaust: whether as a key to 
interpret the present, or as a mean to foretell the near apocalypse of Western 
civilization. In Calderon, when the curtain falls over the concentration camp 
dormitory and over the character’s laconic words of resignation to a world of 
complete social alienation, both the author and the audience are on the victim’s 
side. The strongest intellectual emotions that one could glean from the 
conclusion to this play seem to be a feeling of identification with the victim, and 
the innocence which can come from it: the sanctity of those who decline action 
through self-sacrifice. 

In choosing totalitarianism and the Holocaust as paradigms to understand 
the present, there exists the risk of choosing resignation and sacrifice, political 
pessimism and fatalism as moral points of reference. As Giorgio Agamben 
writes, none of the ethical principles that our times have believed valid have 
withstood the proof of Auschwitz, the proof of an Ethica more Auschwitz 
demonstrata (9-10). Nonetheless, what one could draw from Auschwitz should 
be a provisional, minimal map useful for venturing into a new ethical land. In 
such a matter, intellectuals — particularly playwrights — have great 
responsibilities. 

Finally, | would like to go back to the notion of language with which I began 
this article, a language reduced to stammering, noise, and silence by the brutality 
of concentration camps. Now one should wonder if the actual event of 
Auschwitz and its literary representation change our perception of it and its role 


Literature in Question: Figuring Auschwitz and Redefining Literature 243 


in society, and affect writing. As Theodor W. Adorno wrote, there cannot be any 
poetry after Auschwitz (362). However one wants to read this statement, Primo 
Levi’s life and work — both his memoirs and his fiction, not to mention his 
poetry — seem to be an act of dissent. Levi’s work, in fact, stands out as an 
example of trust in the act of writing, and as a challenge against those who would 
like the Holocaust to be unspeakable. It is no mere accident if Primo Levi did not 
like obscure writers. In a brief essay on the poetry of Paul Celan entitled Dello 
scrivere oscuro, he drew a distinction between those writers who write in an 
obscure language because of contempt for their readers or of inadequacy of 
expressive means, and others like Celan whose writing expresses a stammering, a 
darkness, a voluntary exit from the world (49-55). According to Levi, Celan’s 
poetry is not an act of communication; rather, it resembles a background noise, a 
non-language. Such obscurity affects the ethics of his poetry: “Io penso che 
Celan poeta debba essere piuttosto meditato e compianto che imitato” (L’altrui 
mestiere 53). Clarity and distinction are certainly among the best qualities that 
constitute Levi’s intellectual legacy. In this light, what changes after Auschwitz 
is writing as we know it, with all its strict hierarchy of literary genres, its careful 
distinction between what can be considered literature and what cannot, its 
privileging of form over content and of aesthetics over ethics and politics. In 
articulating the Holocaust and making it a metaphor for current social and 
political issues, theatre also asks these questions and invites us to re-discuss 
carefully the balance among aesthetics, ethics, and politics in a literary text. 


Wellesley College 


244 Sergio Parussa 


Works Cited 


Adorno, Theodor W. “After Auschwitz.” 1949. Negative Dialectics. Trans. E. B. Ashton. 
New York: Continuum, 1973. 
Agamben, Giorgio. Quel che resta di Auschwitz. L'archivio e il testimone. Torino: 
Bollati Boringhieri, 1998. 
Belpoliti, Marco, ed. Primo Levi. Conversazioni e interviste. 1963-1987. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1997. 
Kramer, Larry. The Normal Heart. New York: Plume, 1985. 
. Reports from the Holocaust: The Making of an AIDS Activist. New York: St. 
Martin’s Press, 1989. 
Kushner, Tony. A Bright Room Called Day. New York: Theatre Communications Group, 
1987. 
Levi, Primo. / sommersi e i salvati. Torino: Einaudi, 1986. 
. L‘altrui mestiere. Torino: Einaudi, 1985. 
. Se questo é un uomo. La tregua. Torino: Einaudi, 1958. 
. Se questo é un uomo. Versione drammatica. Torino: Einaudi, 1966. 
Novick, Peter. The Holocaust in American Life. Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1999. 
Pasolini, Pier Paolo. Calderon. Milano: Garzanti, 1973. 
Rousset, David. L ‘univers concentrationnaire. Paris: Editions du Pavois, 1946. 
Sherman, Martin. Bent. Ashover (UK): Amber Lane, 1979. 


Giancarlo Gaeta 





La scelta delle “cose migliori’. Intellettuali e societa 
di massa secondo Nicola Chiaromonte 


“Per cominciare, le cose appaiono tali quali sono e non c’é scampo. Per 
continuare, é€ in questa apparizione incongrua che sta il mistero dell’esistenza, il 
suo carattere divino” (Che cosa rimane 57). Della liberta di vedere le cose come 
sono, nel loro manifestarsi irriducibile, frammentato, discontinuo e, dunque, 
incongruente, Nicola Chiaromonte ha fatto la cifra del suo impegno intellettuale. 
Non certo per spirito di nichilismo; al contrario, come leva per accedere a 
“immagine di un significato possibile” (Che cosa rimane 41), ad una visione 
sempre interiore e, dunque, individuale, del mistero dell’esistenza umana. Perché 
“ogni uomo, assolutamente ognuno, porta in sé [...] una forma che domanda di 
nascere, una domanda che esige risposta, una parola che vuole essere 
pronunciata, il possibile significato del mondo in cui egli vive, del mondo sic et 
simpliciter. Ed & da questo punto che comincia ogni discorso sensato sulla 
condizione dell’uomo. E nessuna parola che non contenga implicita o esplicita, 
una chiara e semplice risposta a questa domanda, una formulazione di questa 
parola, una forma di questo fantasma tormentoso ha il minimo senso o puod 
essere comunque accolta come significativa” (Che cosa rimane 77-78). 

C’é dunque uno stato di insensatezza delle cose corrispondente al puro stato 
di necessita, che certo non si manifesta sempre allo stesso modo in ogni epoca e 
in ogni luogo, e tuttavia sempre di nuovo in ogni situazione storicamente data; e 
c’é altresi radicata in ciascuno una domanda di senso, vale a dire il sentimento di 
una mancanza e l’aspirazione ad un’immagine del mondo “come potrebbe 
essere”. Ma non c’é nella visione di Chiaromonte opposizione tra queste due 
realta, e dunque tra necessita e liberta, tra sottomissione alla necessita “naturale” 
e bisogno di “fare senso”, perché la seconda non si da senza la prima se non 
come fuga nell’immaginario 0 come pretesa ideologica; ma é sempre dare senso 
a cio che si pensa e si agisce nella situazione data, che € quella che é, essendo 
ciascuno implicato in un’inestricabile catena e concomitanza di fatti prossimi e 
remoti, che tuttavia mai appaiono come esaustivi della realta. Cosicché “nel 
pensiero che si pensa, nell’azione che si compie, nel fine che si vuole 
raggiungere, non é solo implicito come seme nella pianta cid che va oltre quel 
pensiero e quell’azione e gli da senso. E anche implicito inevitabilmente il senso 
stesso, una visione d’avvenire che é visione della natura delle cose — dunque 
una affermazione del ‘cosmo’ — e, in questa visione, |’assoluto, il ‘dio’ su cui la 
visione si fonda” (Che cosa rimane 56). Ed é poi di qui, da questa visione 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


246 Giancarlo Gaeta 


d’avvenire, che si genera “la capacita di esprimere utopie, cioé, alla lettera, 
disegni di cose che non sono in alcun luogo”, “immagini risolutive di un mondo 
ideale”, e percio il “mito, nel senso di immagine tutta esistente e spiegata, 
veramente obbiettiva, cioé concreta di certezza” (// tarlo della coscienza 87-88). 

Gia questo minimo riferimento al linguaggio di Chiaromonte, costellato di 
termini quali necessita, liberta, senso, visione, utopia, ideale, mito, basta a 
segnalare |’anomalia della sua _ posizione_ nell’universo _ intellettuale 
contemporaneo. Un_ linguaggio antico, fermo nel registro platonico, 
impermeabile al compromesso, deciso a dire sempre di nuovo l’essenziale, 
affatto timoroso di risultare quanto mai inattuale. Il fatto é che il suo dire si 
fonda sulla certezza che esiste “una regola stabile per giudicare di qualsiasi 
ordine reale”, certezza non puramente intellettuale bensi maturata nella 
coscienza di soffrire la situazione del proprio tempo abbastanza per ritrovare in 
se stesso quella regola e farne metro di giudizio per |’epoca. Basta al riguardo 
leggere le pagine scritte in morte di Albert Camus; il ricordo vivido del loro 
incontro ad Algeri nel 1941, il riconoscimento I’uno nell’altro dei “segni della 
sorte”, dalla cui sopportazione sarebbe nata |’opera di entrambi. Del se stesso di 
allora, Chiaromonte ricorda: “Ero tutto occupato da un solo pensiero, e quello 
solo m’importava: che si era giunti all’anno zero dell’uomo, che la storia era 
insensata e solo cid che dell’uomo rimaneva fuori dalla storia, esterno, estraneo, 
impenetrabile al turbine degli eventi, aveva un senso; se, tuttavia, esisteva” (// 
tarlo della coscienza 218). Di tale questione, riconosce Chiaromonte, il grande 
scrittore francese “si era impadronito e |’aveva portata a conclusioni estreme e 
lucide: era riuscito a dire, in un suo modo febbrile e con un discorso 
continuamente teso come un filo di rasoio, perché, malgrado il furore e l’orrore 
della storia, l’uomo é un assoluto, e a indicare con esattezza dove fosse, secondo 
lui, quest’assoluto: nella coscienza, anche se chiusa e muta, nel tener fede a se 
stesso, anche se condannato dagli Dei a ripetere in eterno la stessa vana fatica” 
(I tarlo della coscienza 219). Eppure non é azzardato aggiungere che egli stesso 
ha saputo dare una risposta non meno acuta e preziosa, che si nutre della stessa 
certezza, quella della “trascendenza dell’uomo rispetto alla storia”, ed esprime a 
sua volta la volonta di “contestare direttamente lo stato attuale dell’uomo in 
nome delle esigenze di una coscienza rigorosa, non attenuate da considerazioni 
mondane” (// tarlo della coscienza 220), ma altresi capace di una pil ampia 
comprensione della situazione presente e di una risoluzione non puramente 
volontaristica. 


Di tale sua comprensione mi limito qui a porre in evidenza quello che é forse 
l’aspetto pill ostico e sconcertante, vale a dire l’osservazione di cid che 
Chiaromonte chiama significativamente “la situazione di massa” e della 
responsabilita degli intellettuali nel dare a tale situazione fondamento ideologico 
e culturale. Della questione si occupa espressamente Il’ampio saggio pubblicato 
sul primo numero di “Tempo presente” nell’aprile del 56: La situazione di 


La scelta delle ‘cose migliori” secondo Nicola Chiaromonte 247 


massa e i valori nobili. Come s’intuisce dal titolo, oggetto primario della 
riflessione di Chiaromonte non é Il’avvento della “societa di massa”, che in 
quanto fenomeno storico di importanza epocale non puo che essere riconosciuto 
come dato di fatto, di cui si puo rendere conto in termini di cause materiali, 
ovvero descrivere nei suoi caratteri e meccanismi ed effetti sulla vita individuale 
ed associata. Ma infine si tratta pur sempre di un fenomeno storico, e dunque 
ambiguo e contingente come tutti i fatti della storia umana; del quale di volta in 
volta ciascun individuo, da solo o con altri, puo solo fare il bilancio per 
valutarne benefici e costi, e secondo da che parte pendera la bilancia ci si potra 
assumere la responsabilita di agire in una direzione piuttosto che nell’altra, 
credendo con questo di preoccuparsi in concreto del bene pubblico. “Giacché — 
scriveva Chiaromonte qualche anno prima ad Andrea Caffi — il ‘buon cittadino’ 
crede nella realta della coscienza umana, e crede anche che i mutamenti reali 
appartengono alla sfera di cid che gli uomini credono quanto al reale, e non a 
una mitica realta oggettiva. La ‘realta’ — egli pensa — se si parla seriamente, 
resta sempre la stessa: questo mondo sublunare che niente, nell’esperienza, ci 
promette trasformabile, mentre tutto ce lo indica semplicemente mutevole. 
Questo mondo ci é interamente e per sempre dato — con i suoi /imiti. La nostra 
volonta vi puO mutare ben poco, perché ben poco sappiamo della radice dei 
mutamenti sociali, perfino assai dubbio che i mutamenti sociali importanti (i 
pochi ‘progressi’ 0 epoche ‘felici’ di cui si ha conoscenza) siano nati da una 
volonta cosciente e guidata” (// tarlo della coscienza 109). 

Cid che pertanto preoccupa Chiaromonte, ed occupa il centro della sua 
riflessione, non é il processo di massificazione in quanto fatto materiale 
contingente, bensi “la situazione morale per cui il semplice fatto del ‘numero’ 
assume una importanza tanto soverchiante da diventare una specie di valore, un 
principio pili efficace di ogni altro, e quasi un bene in sé” (J// tarlo della 
coscienza 121). Cosicché la questione prima ancora che essere di ordine sociale 
e politica é di ordine morale; essa concerne precisamente la responsabilita delle 
élite, la loro propensione a “massificarsi insieme alle masse, o addirittura prima 
delle masse” (// tarlo della coscienza 120), nella misura in cui da un certo 
momento in poi hanno concepito “il rapporto tra la cultura e la vita collettiva 
come un rapporto di subordinazione di quella a questa” (// tarlo della coscienza 
122), e percid volgendo le spalle alla tradizione umanistica di matrice platonica. 
Nella storia del pensiero politico occidentale andrebbe pertanto segnato uno 
spartiacque, che Chiaromonte scorge, con l’aiuto di Hannah Arendt, nel 
convincimento di Marx che “la filosofia e la verita, lungi dal trovarsi fuori dagli 
affari umani e dal mondo reale, sono situati precisamente dentro di essi, e non 
possono essere realizzate che nella sfera della vita collettiva, mediante la 
formazione dell’womo  socializzato” (Tradition 121). E dunque, chiosa 
Chiaromonte, ‘“é imposto all’intellettuale il dovere di sentirsi non gia libero, 
bensi in stato di necessita, e di sottomettere quindi 1 suoi pensieri alle stesse 
condizioni materiali che pesano collettivamente sui suoi simili” (7radition 123). 


248 Giancarlo Gaeta 


L’aver pensato a fondo l’idea di necessita e, ancor piu, averne fatto il vincolo 
indissolubile tra intellettuale e massa é cid che, per Chiaromonte, denota in 
profondita il carattere rivoluzionario del pensiero di Marx, a prescindere dalle 
sue teorie economiche e sociali. 

Vale la pena soffermarsi su questo punto per ricordare che sara proprio 
Hannah Arendt, con la pubblicazione nel °58 di The Human Condition, a 
cogliere nell’idea di necessita il carattere distintivo del pensiero politico 
moderno. Carattere determinato dalla soppressione della distinzione operata dai 
Greci tra sfera sociale e sfera politica, distinzione che in certa misura ancora 
permaneva nella societa feudale tra sfera sociale e sfera religiosa. Mentre da 
Marx in poi il compito della politica non sara pit quello di formare I’uomo in 
una sfera superiore rispetto a quella sociale, ma all’interno stesso di questa, 
riconosciuta come lunica reale. Da quel momento pensare politicamente 
significa pensare in funzione del sociale; Platone avrebbe detto: pensare i 
pensieri del grande animale, della bestia sociale. Peraltro, ci spiega Arendt, la 
soppressione della distinzione non ha prodotto una concezione pil alta e 
comprensiva della vita associata, ma si € risolta nella riduzione della sfera 
politica alla sfera sociale, che per i Greci coincideva con la sfera del privato, 
della vita domestica soggetta al vincoli economici e ai rapporti di forza. Si é 
pertanto ridotta la sfera della liberta a quella della necessita. Vale a dire che noi 
moderni non abbiamo elaborato una concezione del sociale sostanzialmente 
diversa da quella dei Greci, ci siamo piuttosto limitati ad estenderne |’ambito 
dalla sfera privata a quella pubblica. Di qui proviene, ella scrive, la nostra 
grande difficolta a rappresentarci “la decisiva distinzione tra il dominio pubblico 
e il dominio privato, tra la sfera della polis e la sfera domestica e della famiglia 
e, infine, tra le attivita relative a un mondo comune e quelle relative alla 
conservazione della vita, distinzione su cui si basava tutto il pensiero politico 
antico, che la considerava come evidente e assiomatica. Nel nostro modo di 
pensare la distinzione si € completamente oscurata, perché noi vediamo i popoli 
e le comunita politiche riflessi nell’immagine di una famiglia le cui faccende 
quotidiane devono essere sbrigate da una gigantesca amministrazione domestica 
su un piano nazionale” (Vita activa 22). 

In questo senso, che l’economico dovesse finire con |’imporsi a tutto e a tutti 
era gia inscritto nella riduzione moderna del politico al sociale, cioé al regno 
della necessita, che é innanzitutto necessita) economica, lotta per la 
sopravvivenza e per |’accrescimento, necessariamente a scapito di altri. Con in 
piu il paradosso che la raggiunta liberta dal bisogno economico non consente 
accesso ad una superiore sfera di liberta; perché la liberta, situata tutta nel 
sociale, é essenzialmente liberta dal bisogno, ovvero dai sempre nuovi bisogni 
creati dalla societa. Tutto il resto, cioé tutto cid che in qualche modo sfugge alla 
presa diretta del sociale, é spinto a ritirarsi in una sorta di terra di nessuno, in un 
limbo della cultura, che dal punto di vista del sociale puo essere accettato come 
luogo dell’evasione 0, nel migliore dei casi, come riserva di un patrimonio 





La scelta delle ‘cose migliori” secondo Nicola Chiaromonte 249 


culturale che, all’occorrenza, pud essere utilizzato in vista della produzione di 
una qualche visione generale che faccia argine al pericolo di sprofondare in un 
pragmatismo asfissiante. 


Trovo significativa la sintonia tra Chiaromonte e Hannah Arendt nella misura in 
cui consente di apprezzare meglio una corrente di pensiero tenuta fin qui ai 
margini. Un pensiero della crisi che si fonda su una visione complessiva della 
civilta occidentale e che mira a ricostituire il senso della politica a partire dalla 
visione della “‘condizione umana” piuttosto che da una qualche teoria politica. E 
peraltro lo stesso Chiaromonte a rendere esplicita tale sintonia: “Hannah Arendt 
ha ragione di dire che, rovesciando radicalmente il rapporto classico fra il 
pensiero e |’azione come egli ha fatto, Marx ha segnato la fine di una tradizione, 
annunciando una crisi che ancora dura e che é, in primo luogo, la crisi della 
cultura e dei “valori nobili” nel mondo contemporaneo” (// tarlo della 
coscienza124). I “valori nobili’”’, vale a dire i valori conformi “‘all’ideale classico 
dell’aristocratico e del filosofo: l’uomo cosciente, ragionevole, libero perché 
padrone di sé”, che Ortega y Gasset contrapponeva in un saggio famoso 
all’uomo massa, |’uomo che ha come “principio primo che nessuno € superiore a 
nessun altro” (// tarlo della coscienza 119). Tuttavia, a differenza di Ortega, 
Chiaromonte non polarizza il contrasto, non contrappone un ideale che sa 
tramontato alla realta onnivora della situazione di massa. Pone invece con forza 
la questione del “chi € l’uomo” nella situazione di massa, di cosa ne é della sua 
natura. La stessa domanda da cui muove la ricerca di Hannah Arendt, anche se le 
risposte sono significativamente diverse. 

In effetti, nel pensiero di Chiaromonte non si trova la distinzione arendtiana 
tra vita attiva e vita della mente, e dunque tra la sfera dell’agire in comune e la 
sfera della vita contemplativa che si svolge nell’interiorita dei soggetti. Di 
conseguenza |’epoca moderna non é vista dall’esterno, fenomenologicamente, e 
criticata in rapporto a un modello concettuale (come quello esemplato sulla polis 
greca), bensi riconosciuta per cid che essa é, la situazione di massa cui nessuno 
puo sottrarsi nella vita attiva e che peraltro € in perenne, insolubile conflitto con 
’impulso umano a trascendere |l’universo sociale. In altri termini, per 
Chiaromonte é politicamente decisiva la vita della mente, la sua capacita di 
volgersi alle “cose migliori”, il suo bisogno di “dare senso”, la sua forza utopica. 
Cio che pertanto differisce non é la valutazione del tempo presente, il suo non 
essere nient’altro che sociale, dove la politica é ridotta ad amministrazione dei 
molti da parte di pochi, dove ogni attivita umana é subordinata all’ imperativo del 
consumo e il pensiero é indotto ad esprimersi per sommi capi. Cid che differisce 
é piuttosto, direi, |’atteggiamento morale rispetto a tale situazione, che non Ci Si 
puo limitare a guardare dall’esterno, o meglio dall’alto del mondo dei valori 
nobili; e infatti: “Una situazione cosi viziosa non muta per virtu di idee pure, né 
di colpo, bensi unicamente ‘secondo |’ordine del tempo’, a forza di soffrire in 
comune la sorte comune, cercando di comprenderla” (// tarlo della coscienza 


250 Giancarlo Gaeta 


141). Dunque € cosa buona e necessaria crearsi dei modelli, ovvero delle 
immagini del mondo come potrebbe essere 0 come forse é stato in qualche rara 
Circostanza storica, poiché non c’é altro modo di guardare criticamente al 
presente. Ma senza dimenticare che “giudicare non é€ applicare una sapienza 
codificata: € rispondere in modo intellettualmente appropriato e giusto alla 
situazione in cui si € coinvolti e che mette in gioco le nostre passioni come le 
nostre idee” (Che cosa rimane 47). 


Cosi, della teoria politica esposta da Hannah Arendt in Vita activa, si potrebbe 
dire cid che Chiaromonte dice dell’utopia platonica rappresentata ne La 
Repubblica: Vessere un modello, una “statua di parole’; non dunque una idea da 
realizzare, ma un “puro oggetto di esercizio per la mente, essendo ben inteso che 
la mente non puo poi, a sua volta non influenzare il corpo, modificandone la 
disposizione” (Che cosa rimane 52). Sennonché, é proprio della situazione di 
massa il rifiutare, 0 quantomeno ignorare ogni forma intellettuale che non si 
possa mettere in pratica, non produttiva di fatti misurabili. Di qui l’estrema 
ambiguita della situazione in cui si viene a trovare |’intellettuale, ambiguita nella 
quale peraltro si riflette potenziata quella che l’individuo comune sperimenta 
rispetto al proprio agire: “L’individuo che, nel suo lavoro, in politica, nelle 
circostanze della vita associata, si piega ad agire in un dato modo per necessita: 
perché “non se ne puo fare a meno”, piuttosto che per convinzione, non nega, 
agendo cosi che sarebbe meglio poter fare quello che si fa con la persuasione di 
fare cosa buona e utile. Egli si sente semplicemente costretto a rinviare, per cosi 
dire, la questione del bene e del male” (// tarlo della coscienza 138). Ovvero, la 
situazione é€ tale che la questione del bene e del male si trova perennemente 
sospesa di fronte alla necessita per ciascuno di corrispondere momento per 
momento, nell’infinito variare delle circostanze, alle ragioni della convenienza, 
senza pill curarsi se, agendo come agisce, si trovi o meno nel vero. Né se ne pud 
curare, se vuole, seppure a costo di un certo disagio morale, seguitare ad 
occupare il suo posto nella societa, e in definitiva sentirsi riconosciuto almeno 
come un numero. Quanto all’intellettuale, l'ambiguita della sua condizione é 
accresciuta dal conflitto tra la consapevolezza di essere depositario di una 
tradizione culturale fondata sulla convinzione che esiste “una regola stabile per 
giudicare di qualsiasi ordine reale”, e quella di essere parte, come tutti, della 
massa, se non altro perché “siamo tutti costretti a servirci del linguaggio 
corrente, e tanto pit quelli che provano piti forte il desiderio di comunicare con i 
loro simili e di rivolgere il loro discorso alla comunita in quanto tale” (// tarlo 
della coscienza 140). E dunque nutrire nel privato pensieri e valori, orientare la 
propria mente e il proprio spirito verso le “cose migliori”, € certo d’importanza 
vitale; ma occorre sapere che la loro comunicazione effettiva, vale a dire non 
puramente verbale, é resa impossibile nella societa di massa, a tal punto una 
parola ricca di pensiero, cioé di contenuto reale, confligge con lo stato d’irrealta 
della condizione comune. Cosi, si racconta che quando Natalia Ginzburg 





La scelta delle ‘cose migliori” secondo Nicola Chiaromonte 251 


prendeva la parola alla Camera si faceva un rispettoso silenzio; si prestava cioé 
ascolto alla testimonianza della parola, ben consapevoli della sua inefficacia 
pratica, pil o meno come la domenica mattina si va in chiesa ad ascoltare il 
vangelo. 

Soffrire di “una situazione estrema”, diviso com’é tra il desiderio di 
trasmettere le ragioni e le verita di una tradizione perduta, e la consapevolezza di 
“esistere ed operare in una situazione nella quale lui stesso non ha che un 
rapporto equivoco e dubbio con la tradizione” (// tarlo della coscienza 141), tale 
sembra essere per Chiaromonte I’unico compito efficace che |’intellettuale pud 
assumersi nella societa di massa. Un compito che per l’essenziale consiste nel 
“dire il vero sulla situazione senza presumere di possedere lui una verita che agli 
altri non é data” (// tarlo della coscienza 140). Non € un compito da poco, se si 
pensa che gli viene cosi restituito il ruolo di mediatore tra passato e presente, tra 
cid che € e cid che potrebbe essere, e dunque di mantenere vivo quanto meno il 
dubbio che la totalita della realta umana debba risolversi nel sociale. 

Ma se il compito dell’intellettuale é dire la verita soffrendo la situazione data 
pur senza esserne assorbito, allora bisogna riconoscere con Chiaromonte che, 
almeno dal 1914 in poi, la grande maggioranza degli intellettuali europei lo 
hanno ignorato se non scientemente combattuto in nome delle superiori ragioni 
della societa e della storia. Ragioni necessariamente contrarie allo spirito critico 
e all’esigenza di liberta del moderno intellettuale europeo, e che in effetti si sono 
risolte nell’accettazione di un rapporto di complicita con il potere, attuale o 
atteso che sia; finendo con I’assolvere la funzione di ‘“fulcro del conformismo” e 
diventando percio “il migliore e piu utile strumento della tirannia moderna, quale 
sia il nome di cui tale tirannia si fregi” (// tarlo della coscienza 154). Insomma, 
si € realizzato cid che Marx aveva teorizzato, ma l’effetto € opposto a quello che 
egli aveva preconizzato. Mettendosi al livello della condizione comune, 
l’intellettuale altro non ha potuto fare che conformarsi alle esigenze e ragioni 
proprie del corpo sociale, ne ha subito la logica nel momento stesso in cui ha 
preteso di interpretarne lo spirito rivoluzionario, progressivo, innovatore. D’altra 
parte l’ideologia rivoluzionaria ha lungamente coperto la vera rivoluzione in 
atto, quella che ha condotto |’individuo ad “emanciparsi da ogni teologia e da 
ogni ordine intellettuale superiore”, cosicché esso si trova oramai “provvisto di 
una coscienza autonoma non pil’ soggetta a nessun’altra autorita tranne le 
sollecitazioni della propria natura. Questo mette naturalmente detto individuo 
libero e autonomo direttamente alla mercé dei meccanismi capaci d’influire sulle 
sue sollecitazioni e decisioni”; lo mette cioé in una situazione tale per cui, ogg, 
puo essere reso schiavo anche in nome della liberta, e di fatto lo e (// tarlo della 
coscienza 163-64). 


“La societa ha preso il posto di Dio”: é la lapidaria conclusione enunciata da 
Chiaromonte in una delle sue ultime pagine (Credere 203). Idolatria della societa 
e insieme idolatria della storia. Alla prima oramai tutti appaiono asserviti, 


252 Giancarlo Gaeta 


avendo sperimentato che necessariamente |’ideale settecentesco della “massima 
felicita del maggior numero” puo realizzarsi solo a prezzo della “massima 
servitu del maggior numero”, “giacché, al fine di assicurare non diciamo la 
felicita [...] ma il benessere almeno apparente del maggior numero possibile 
d’individui, bisogna evidentemente che tutti servano questa causa e si 
sottomettano alle condizioni necessarie a raggiungere questo scopo” (Credere 
203). Alla seconda poi sono in specie gli intellettuali ad aver reso culto in questo 
secolo, e questo come conseguenza, paradossalmente, del venir meno della fede 
ottocentesca nel corso della storia, la quale comportava che “‘il significato 
dell’esistenza individuale consistesse precisamente nel moto stesso della storia 
attuale dell’umanita verso un compimento, e in esso si esaurisse” (Credere 192). 
Ma anche dopo che la catastrofe della prima guerra mondiale ebbe resa 
impraticabile quella fede, essa non mori del tutto ma si trasformo nella fede nei 
fatti compiuti. Non potendo pit credere ad un finalismo della storia, incapaci o 
riluttanti a produrre a partire da se stessi un’immagine del mondo, piuttosto che 
dichiarare il non senso della storia, si é attribuito “valore, in politica come in 
arte, e in arte come nella condotta privata, solo alla volonta di compiere fatti. 
Fede o non fede, chi compie fatti ha ragione” (Credere 193). Ha ragione, perché 
si crede che |’azione che s’impone come fatto compiuto contiene in sé tutto il 
bene e tutto il vero possibile, e dunque cid che conta é stare sui fatti man mano 
che essi si producono; fatti che, osserva Chiaromonte, non sono solo tecnici, 
economici 0 politici, ma anche (e soprattutto) le forme della sensibilita e la vita 
intellettuale, coinvolgendo la vita della cultura in un automatismo che, applicato 
a un tal campo, é inevitabilmente mortifero: |’automatismo della ricerca del 
“nuovo”, il quale si riduce in realta a un continuo segnare il passo nel disordine” 
(Credere 195). 

Allosservazione di tale mutamento nella vita intellettuale, Chiaromonte ha 
dedicato una parte consistente del suo studio. Ne sono testimonianza i Taccuini e 
gli ampi saggi dedicati agli scrittori tra otto e novecento, da Stendhal e Tolstoj a 
Martin du Gard, Malraux, Camus, Silone, Mallarmé, Pasternak, Moravia. Saggi 
che ruotano tutti intorno alla duplice e intrecciata questione del rapporto tra 
l’arte e il mondo, tra l’individuo e la storia. Il passaggio é ancora una volta 
segnato dal 1914. Ne La certosa di Parma come in Guerra e pace, la 
rappresentazione dell’individuo nella storia si risolve nella negazione di 
quest’ultima. La Storia non ha senso, ne hanno solo gli individui e l’intreccio 
infinito delle situazioni in cui essi si trovano a vivere. Esistono solo, a 
propriamente parlare, delle storie singole, o meglio soltanto quella storia che 
risulta dall’intreccio di vite individuali, il cui senso non é rintracciabile 
nell’artificio delle causalita storica ma solo nella coscienza dell’artista che ne da 
la rappresentazione. Cosicché una Storia razionale potrebbe darsi solo dal punto 
di vista di Dio, e cioé “come intreccio di destini tutti chiaramente indirizzati e 
prestabiliti — tutti concorrenti a un ultimo fine razionale e pacificante” (Che cosa 
rimane 80). Il che non conduce di per sé a negare che vi siano degli assoluti dal 





La scelta delle ‘‘cose migliori” secondo Nicola Chiaromonte 253 


punto di vista dell’uomo, ma che essi, non discendendo da alcuna logica 
soprannaturale, sono riconosciuti come “veri perché sperimentati veramente nel 
contesto quotidiano, necessari all’esistenza, ‘buoni’” (Che cosa rimane 17). La 
verita delle rappresentazioni storiche di Stendhal e di Tolstoj sta dunque nella 
coscienza che |l’artista ha della realta’ presente del mondo, ovvero nel 
riconoscimento del “rapporto tra l’oggetto che egli fabbrica e il mondo per il 
quale lo fabbrica” (// tarlo della coscienza 244). 

Ma basta passare da Tolstoj a Malraux per misurare in tutta la sua 
estensione il mutamento conseguente al 1914, per quanto concerne la vita 
intellettuale: “Il rifiuto della sfera privata in Malraux € estremo e comprende il 
rifiuto dell’interiorita nel senso di Kierkegaard. ‘Per lui, l’uomo moderno ha 
perduto ogni diritto a volgersi verso una qualsiasi “realta spirituale” o intima 
[...]. La verita € nella direzione opposta: nel riconoscimento che la situazione 
contemporanea é€ una situazione estrema nella quale l’individuo non puod 
separare il proprio destino da quello della civilta europea e dei suoi valori” 
(Credere 133). In altri termini la verita dell’uomo contemporaneo europeo é 
nell’azione storica, nella sua volonta e capacita di identificarsi con essa, 
tagliando corto ai pensieri, e imponendo l’evidenza dei fatti. E questo non a 
partire da una qualche visione provvidenziale della storia, ma in nome della 
storia pura e semplice, della storia come prorompere degli eventi, come urto 
delle forze. Cosicché, scrive Chiaromonte, i personaggi di Malraux 
“rappresentano, spinta ai limiti dell’assurdo, la grande eresia del nostro tempo: il 
tentativo di dominare la Forza facendosi coscientemente suoi servi e strumenti” 
(Credere 143). 

Certo altri, come Camus o Pasternak, sono ben lontani dalla visione di 
Malraux, anzi la loro opera ne esprime il rifiuto, e tuttavia l’?ombra possente 
della storia si stende anche sulla loro arte, sia pure come cid contro cui occorre 
rivoltarsi o come l’illusione momentanea di una imprevista liberazione. II 
sentimento della mostruosita della storia e insieme il timore che la sua negazione 
precipiti nell’assoluto del non senso sembra segnare, nella lettura di 
Chiaromonte, la vita intellettuale tra le due guerre e oltre, e infine sfociare, nei 
nostri tempi, nell’arte dell’informe, ovvero nella ‘“produzione di oggetti di 
qualita specialissima offerti al godimento di chi sa apprezzarli”, a prescindere 
dalla domanda circa la loro necessita rispetto “alla situazione attuale 
dell’individuo, alla realta presente del mondo e alla coscienza che se ne pud 
avere” (// tarlo della coscienza 244-45). Dunque un’arte che, rendendosi 
indifferente all’opposizione del bene e del male, ha definitivamente rinunciato 
alle ragioni del proprio esistere, che € di esprimere la condizione umana. 


Che cosa dunque rimane ai giorni nostri di una cultura millenaria? Ben poco, in 
verita, ma quel poco é pur sempre |’essenziale: “Rimane, se rimane, la capacita 
di mantenere che cid che é bene é bene, cid che é male, male, e non si puo fare 
che sia diversamente (e non si deve fare che appaia diversamente)” (Che cosa 


254 Giancarlo Gaeta 


rimane 9). Rimane, aggiungo, la certezza che la verita esiste ed é desiderabile, 
che il bene é un bisogno e un’aspirazione radicati nell’intimo di ciascuno, “un 
grido muto”, diceva Simone Weil. 


Universita di Firenze 





Opere citate 


Arendt, Hannah, Tradition and the Modern Age, “Partisan Review”, gennaio-febbraio 
1954. 
. Vita activa. La condizione umana, Milano, Bompiani, 1988. 
Chiaromonte, Nicola. Che cosa rimane, Taccuini 1955-1971, Bologna, I] Mulino, 1995. 
. Credere e non credere, Milano, Bompiani, 1971. 
. Il tarlo della coscienza, Bologna, Il Mulino, 1992. 


Alessandro Montani 





Manganelli, ovvero I’etica dell’intelligenza 


“Scrivere letteratura non é€ un gesto sociale” (Manganelli, Letteratura come 
menzogna 219). Cosi Giorgio Manganelli nel suo scritto critico pil celebre, 
apparso originariamente nel 1967 e che cominciava con una saggia parabola: 
“Qualche tempo fa, durante una discussione, qualcuno citd: ‘Finché c’é al 
mondo un bimbo che muore di fame, fare letteratura € immorale’. Qualcun altro 
chioso: ‘Allora lo € sempre stato’” (215). Di pit, la letteratura sara sempre 
immorale, perché, qualora non morissero pit’ bambini di fame, “non sorgera 
allora qualche onesto e lucido raziocinatore a rammentarci 1 suicidi, le morti 
precoci, i delitti passionali, gli alcoolizzati?” (Manganelli, La letteratura come 
menzogna 215). 

Nella sterminata produzione manganelliana' affermazioni del genere non 
sono certamente eccezioni, anzi ricorrono in continuazione, intessendo elogi 
della chiacchiera, della totale assenza di significati della parola letteraria. 
Troppo facile sarebbe prendere le affermazioni di Manganelli come pure e 
semplici provocazioni, magari puntellando la rischiosa idea con i pili discutibili 
dei suoi rilievi critici, come questa negazione recisa del legame di Boccaccio 
con l’ambiente sociale a lui contemporaneo: 


Il Decamerone come testo realistico, come testo borghese credo che sia una delle cose 
piu... devo moderare il mio linguaggio... una delle cose piu mistificatorie in cui io mi sia 
mai imbattuto. Quando io prendo in mano il Boccaccio — e tra |’altro sono reduce da una 
recente rilettura del Decamerone — rimango di nuovo affascinato da questa prosa di una 
elaborata, faticosa volonta di non dare nulla al lettore. La descrizione della peste, tutta la 
parte iniziale é tutto un gioco verbale di una fatica cosi onerosa, cosi sottile, cosi 


artificiale... 
(Pulce, Lettura d'autore 123) 


L’affermazione é estremistica e le parole sono pronunciate nel corso di un 
dibattito tenutosi all’Universita di Roma nel 1985, per cui potrebbero essere 
state emesse con una qualche intenzione polemica, nonché con la foga che, 


' Il fondamentale Pulce, Bibliografia, fino al 1995, cioé cinque anni dopo la morte dello 
scrittore, scheda 1727 pezzi tra libri, articoli, recensioni, traduzioni e via dicendo. Negli 
ultimi anni si stanno ancora succedendo numerose edizioni e riedizioni di romanzi, saggl, 
inediti di vario genere. 


Annali d’Italianistica 19 (2001) 


256 Alessandro Montani 


normalmente, nella scrittura si tiene invece sotto controllo.” Ma, se leggiamo 
quanto affermato nella prima parte della risposta al suo interlocutore, scopriamo 
anche che 


si dice “eta di Dante”, “eta di Boccaccio”, dopodiché si dice che l’eta di Boccaccio é 
quella in cui ha scritto Boccaccio e si prendono i dati di Boccaccio e quelli di Dante per 
descrivere l’eta di Dante e l’eta di Boccaccio. Dire che Boccaccio é contemporaneo di 
Federico Frezzi — tanto per dire due nomi molto diversi — io mi domando che senso ha: 
che utilita ha spiegare in termini di socialita una letteratura che puo produrre 
contemporaneamente, in parallelo, degli scrittori che non hanno niente in comune |’uno 
con l’altro e che esprimono dei mondi, degli universi che sono assolutamente 
incomunicabili? 

(123) 


I] radicale antistoricismo di Manganelli diventa allora non un partito preso, ma 
qualcosa di piu fondato, magari accostabile alle parole di chi, recentemente, ha 
messo in guardia dalla faciloneria, per non dire grettezza, di chi si affida a 
moralismi e sociologismi svianti di fronte ai classici: 


There are modern attitudes to Shakespeare | particularly dislike: the worst of them 
maintains that the reputation of Shakespeare is fraudulent, the result of an eighteenth- 
century nationalist or imperialist plot. A related notion, almost equally presumptuous, is 
that to make sense of Shakespeare we need first to see the plays as involved in the 
political discourse of his day to a degree that has only now become intelligible. 

(Kermode viii) 


Vale forse allora la pena di interrogare un poco pit a fondo le parole di un 
autore che, non solo a chi scrive, appare come uno dei massimi prosatori italiani 
del Novecento. II nostro primo compito sara quello di spazzare il campo da 
quello che ci pare un vizio di fondo, cioé l’idea che la letteratura sia tanto piu 
elevata quanto pili elevati siano i sentimenti e le idee che in essa trovano 
espressione. Ancor di pit. deprechiamo i critici che, pur rendendosi conto che 
non sempre gli autori preferiti la pensano come loro, eticamente o politicamente, 
e che cid traspare dalle loro opere, si cimentano in patetici equilibrismi, che, per 
lo meno, sono evitati dai sostenitori espliciti della letteratura come edificazione 


> Ma si ricordi che Manganelli era oratore virtuoso, come scrisse Citati in uno splendido 
ricordo dell’amico scomparso: “Manganelli parlava superbamente. Non ho mai ascoltato 
nessuno parlare cosi. Come un grande padre predicatore 0 un papa rinascimentale o un 
diplomatico secentesco, ostentava gerundi, participi presenti, parole rare, proposizioni 
subordinate, piuccheperfetti, con una esattissima consecutio temporum, nutrendosi 
avidamente di parole — sanguinanti arrosti di sostantivi, colorati contorni di aggettivi, 
folleggianti salse di verbi e di avverbi. Lo straordinario era che, in lui, il pensiero pit 
sottile e complicato diventava subito, senza un attimo di incertezza e di dubbio, forma 
verbale: a tal punto la sua mente era dominata dall’istinto formale” (Citati 15). 





Manganelli, ovvero l’etica dell’intelligenza 257 


dei lettori. Mi permetto di riportare un passo piuttosto ampio da uno scritto 
sedicente filosofico che in Italia ha goduto di una certa fortuna e che ancora 
viene citato nel dibattito etico meno heideggeriano e piu legato alla realta (0, in 
altri termini, pit. in contatto con i filosofi statunitensi e meno con quelli del 
vecchio continente), probabilmente pit per l’efficacia del titolo e non, piuttosto, 
perché venga effettivamente letto: 


L’autentica @uvre non € e non puo essere una propaganda dell’oppressione, e la 
pseudoarte (che puod essere una tale propaganda) non é arte. L’arte, come la storia, si 
oppone alla storia che é stata la storia dell’ oppressione, perché |’arte assoggetta la realta a 
leggi diverse da quelle stabilite: le leggi della Forma che crea una realta differente — la 
negazione di quella stabilita anche quando I’arte dipinge la realta stabilita. Ma nella sua 
lotta con la storia, |’arte si sottomette alla storia: la storia inizia la definizione dell’arte e 
inizia la distinzione tra arte e pseudoarte. Le forme, gli stili e le qualita precedenti, i 
precedenti modi di protesta e di rifiuto non possono venir ripresi entro oppure contro una 
societa differente. Ci sono casi in cui un’autentica @uvre porta un messaggio politico 
regressivo — Dostoevskij ¢ un caso simile. Ma allora, il messaggio é annullato dalla stessa 
euvre: il contenuto politico regressivo é assorbito, aufgehoben nella forma artistica: 
nell’opera come letteratura. 

(Marcuse 83-84) 


In queste righe, puerili nella debolezza delle argomentazioni contraddittorie,” si 
assiste al patetico tentativo di salvare allo stesso tempo Dostoevskij e la propria 
fama di rivoluzionario, ma, in fondo, nel generale funzionamento dell’ universo 
questo é un episodio irrilevante, non avendo Dostoevskij mai avuto alcun 
bisogno di Marcuse. Se di queste concezioni moralistiche della letteratura dure a 
morire, anzi, continuamente risorgenti sotto l’insegna di chiese, ideologie e 
correttezze politiche qui non mette conto scriverne, non é€ solo per 
un’insofferenza dello scrivente nei riguardi dell’argomento, ma per il semplice 
fatto che uno scrupolo del genere non ha mai toccato neppure tangenzialmente 
Giorgio Manganelli, il quale anzi si dilettava nell’ostentare ogni possibile 
atteggiamento cortigiano e persino nello scrivere |’Encomio del tiranno. E, in 
fondo, certi scrupoli non toccano in generale i critici dotati di un minimo di 
passione per la lettura: si pensi, per esempio, ad un critico che pil lontano da 
Manganelli é difficile immaginare, ossia Carlo Bo, il quale si pone la domanda: 


[...] in letteratura servono di pit i buoni sentimenti o i cattivi? Le buone intenzioni sono 
traducibili in opere d’arte? Chiunque vede quanta parte di arbitrarieta ci sia in domande 
del genere e va ricordato che Gide quando se la fece era ancora fortemente influenzato 
dallo spirito paradossale di Wilde. E chiaro d’altra parte che a domande simili ogni vero 
scrittore risponde con il proprio lavoro meditato e sincero: la riuscita sta poi a provare 


3 L’artificio retorico del termine tedesco — e quindi filosoficamente nobilitante -, 
adoperato per districarsi dal groviglio concettuale nel quale si é spinto, pud convincere 
solamente il lettore che gia si trovi pregiudizialmente dalla parte di Marcuse. 


258 Alessandro Montani 


l’opportunita del mezzo usato. Grosso modo a chi sostiene la legge gidiana, portando gli 
esempi di Dostoievskij 0 di Racine, é facile rispondere opponendo Manzoni o Corneille o 
Calderon. Si tratta di questioni un po’ marginali, vere, si, ma soggette a facili deviazioni e 
a corruzioni fatali. 

(312-13) 


Vedremo poi come di un discorso del genere Manganelli non poteva invece 
o38 5 : 3 4 : F 

condividere |’accento posto sulla sincerita,) se non in una maniera del tutto 

personale. 


Critico e creatore 

Forse sarebbe necessario distinguere tra l’opera critica di Manganelli e quella 
creativa — improprio sarebbe definire la sua opera “narrativa” —, ma, come ogni 
lettore del nostro sa, si tratta di una distinzione quasi impossibile, tendendo tutti 
i suoi libri verso la forma del trattato manierista, sebbene esistano indubbie 
differenze tra opere come Hilarotragoedia (1964), definito dal segnalibro 
autografo non firmato un “trattatello, un manualetto teorico-pratico”;> La 
letteratura come menzogna, raccolta di scritti critici; il Discorso dell’ombra e 
dello stemma, trattato di poetica; il Pinocchio, gia definito nel titolo; Laboriose 
inezie, raccolta di recensioni; il Lunario dell’orfano sannita (1973), antologia di 
corsivi di varia natura. Qui ci si concentrera principalmente sull’attivita di 
critico, che egli stesso, perd, cosi classifica: “[...] é letteratura. E mia personale 
convinzione che la critica letteraria sia semplicemente letteratura sulla 
letteratura” (Rumore 118),’ oppure: “[...] personalmente, credo che la critica sia 


* Per il momento, sara sufficiente; dalla gia citata conferenza romana, ricordare che 
proprio in un critico come Bo, Manganelli trovd sicuramente un obiettivo polemico 
quando penso al titolo del saggio dal quale ha preso avvio la nostra indagine: “Quando mi 
€ venuto quel titolo, Letteratura come menzogna, nella letteratura italiana dominava il 
tema della letteratura come verita. E infatti proprio allora ci fu un articolo di Carlo Bo 
che era intitolato Letteratura come verita” (Pulce, Lettura d'‘autore 113). 

* Nell’edizione, alla quale facciamo riferimento, il segnalibro é diventato un risvolto di 
copertina firmato. Sulle memorabili quarte di copertina e sui risvolti del “Manga” si veda 
Trocchi. 

° Si potrebbe essere tentati di definire il libro come la riscrittura di un romanzo, qualcosa 
di paragonabile a quanto fatto da Tournier con il Robinson Crusoe di Defoe in Vendredi 
ou les Limbes du Pacifique, definito da Raymond Queneau “un ‘remake’ di Robinson 
Crusoe, scritto da qualcuno che ha letto Freud, Sartre e Lévi-Strauss” (la frase, alla quale 
noi aggiungeremmo sicuramente anche una parola per Marx, si legge in Tournier 248). 
Tuttavia l’opera di Manganelli non é€ una riscrittura, bensi “un libro parallelo”, una sorta 
di metastatica glossa continuata. 

’ L’affermazione é tratta da un intervento su un contestato libro di Pietro Citati su Kafka, 
del quale Manganelli difende la liceita di “mescolare biografia, narrazione, riassunto, 








Manganelli, ovvero l’etica dell’intelligenza 259 


semplicemente letteratura sulla letteratura” (Rumore 138). Analogamente, 
opera pit famosa di De Sanctis é definita “quel suo delizioso romanzaccio 
sulla letteratura italiana” (Rumore 62). 

Le dichiarazioni di poetica, delle quali abbiamo fornito qualche esempio tra 
i molti possibili, indurrebbero a pensare ad un Manganelli inattendibile dal 
punto di vista critico, ad un inaffidabile anarchico, ad un seminatore di falsi 
indizi, eppure... Eppure, chi ritorni al Pinocchio di Collodi dopo averne letta la 
riscrittura manganelliana scoprira una ricchezza del testo fino ad allora non 
sospettata. A confermare che non si tratta solamente di virtuosismo di 
Manganelli, ma di una vera e propria potenzialita del testo originario, 
probabilmente sconosciuta a Collodi stesso, si pud pensare ad un altro geniale 
decostruttore che pil volte nella sua vita € tornato su Pinocchio evidenziandone 
aspetti segreti, cioé Carmelo Bene. E, non sara un caso che i due, entrambi 
acerrimi nemici del mondo dei significati e del senso, abbiano talvolta incrociato 
le rispettive strade: chi scrive ha potuto ascoltare alla radio l’intervista 
impossibile di Manganelli a Carmelo Bene nella parte di Nostradamus,” esempio 
perfetto di scrittore di un testo enigmatico, del quale, non a caso, il senso 
individuato dai lettori € da secoli sempre diverso. Dicevamo del Pinocchio 
manganelliano: é un gioco artificioso — |’autore, sempre che tale voglia essere 
chiamato,’ non s’adonterebbe per una simile definizione — ma anche una felice 
interpretazione del libro, un esempio di critica creativa, o di lettura responsabile. 
Naturalmente, scrivere di Manganelli come di un lettore responsabile puo 
sembrare sviante, forse calunnioso, se non precisiamo che intendiamo il termine 
secondo un’accezione etimologica luminosamente definita da Steiner in questo 
modo: “{...] as noted before, this noun [responsibility] houses a primary notion 
of ‘response’, of answerability” (90). A onor del vero, bisogna pero aggiungere 
che la nozione di Steiner € sostenuta da una tensione etica, oltre che 
ontologica,'® che per applicarla a Manganelli occorre compiere una forzatura 





critica concettuale, ritagliare qui una lettera privata, li una pagina di diario, interpretare 
un libro, un aforisma, una frase, un romanzo” (Rumore 118). 

* Inclusa originariamente in 4 e B, l’intervista pud essere oggi riletta nelle /nterviste 
impossibili. 

° La questione dell’autorialita é assai complessa e meriterebbe un discorso a parte. Per 
chiarirsi, anzi complicarsi le idee su cosa pensasse Manganelli dell’argomento si vedano 
per lo meno il sesto capitolo del Pinocchio, nel quale si legge che “sotto ogni punto di 
vista, l’autore é una ipotesi innecessaria, come é stato acutamente affermato di Dio, altro 
grande anonimo” (31) e si legga quel vero e proprio trattato di narratologia , ma scritto in 
forma di aneddoto autobiografico, che € (Pseudonimia)’ (ora raccolto in La notte). 

'? Cosi continua il passo da noi appena citato: “To be responsible in respect of the 
primary notion of semantic trust is, in the full sense, to accept the obligation of response 
though, as I shall emphasize, in an almost paradoxical freedom” (90): se in Manganelli é 
infatti urgente la necessita di rispondere al testo ed indubbiamente é paradossale la liberta 


260 Alessandro Montani 


non da poco, visto che il saggio € proprio una strenua difesa della possibilita che 
il linguaggio umano significhi qualcosa. Sulla “responsivita” di Manganelli non 
nutriamo comunque dubbi, ma a questo punto occorre domandarsi se la critica 
letteraria sia sempre letteratura sulla letteratura. Quando Manganelli risponde 
affermativamente non si puo essere sicuri che sia sincero e che cosi pensi di 
esaurire il discorso per tutti. E ovvio pensare che egli si riferisca prima di tutto al 
proprio modo di operare'' e che voglia difendere critici che non hanno confuso 
l’acume critico con la sciatteria della prosa. Fin qui siamo pero quasi al livello 
della banalita, per quanto benvenuta, se servisse a guardare con diffidenza chi, 
scrivendo dello stile dei libri altrui, non si cura del proprio. Le implicazioni del 
discorso manganelliano sono pero pit profonde e costringono a domandarsi se il 
discorso critico, come quello letterario, sfugga alla distinzione tra vero e falso, 
cloé se ogni affermazione critica sia ugualmente accettabile. La lettura di 
Manganelli spingerebbe immediatamente a rispondere positivamente, ma, cosi 
facendo, si cadrebbe troppo ingenuamente nelle trappole tese dallo scrittore. Al 
di la del fatto che si possono sollevare obiezioni anche facili alle tesi dei 
decostruttori ad oltranza (la difesa condotta da Manganelli della non volonta di 
comunicare di Boccaccio, per esempio, costituisce, a nostro avviso, una prova a 
favore della significativita delle parole), senza per questo credere che il 
linguaggio sia del tutto trasparente,'> non vogliamo neppure ridurre il nostro 
discorso ad un’ennesima variazione sul tema dell’assenza di significato della 
parola letteraria. Non che si tratti di una questione marginale, ma non vorremmo 
rischiare di ridurre Manganelli ad un sostegno di una tesi, perdendo cid che lo 
distingue da altri scrittori e critici. Né, tantomeno, come altri hanno gia fatto, 
vorremmo abbandonarci ad un innegabile impulso mimetico che spinge a 
scrivere manganellianamente quando ci si occupa del nostro. Non andremmo al 
di la della maldestra caricatura e, percio, saremmo pleonastici. Piuttosto, ci 
interessa molto di pil’ cercare di cogliere qualcosa che sia strettamente 
manganelliano e che possa rientrare nel tema del rapporto tra etica e critica. 


con la quale risponde alla parola letteraria, ¢ altrettanto evidente che manca la fiducia nel 
significato intorno alla quale ruota il discorso di Steiner. 

'' Non si spiegherebbe altrimenti come Manganelli, insieme a Dante Isella, sia stato il 
primo direttore della collana di classici italiani della Fondazione Pietro Bembo, che 
pubblica volumi curati con lo scrupolo della miglior tradizione filologica. 

'> Su questo problema ci sembrano tuttora condivisibili le parole di Ducrot, che propone 
una concezione dell’indicibile come “orizzonte del dire, lasciando comunque aperta la 
possibilita che questo modo di accesso all’indicibile sia esso stesso un dire, 
eventualmente // dire (se si ammette che il detto, qualunque sia, non é mai nella parola, 
ma sempre, e per definizione, al suo limite)” (733). Beninteso, il tema del dicibile non ¢ 
del tutto sovrapponibile a quello dell opacita del segno. 


Manganelli, ovvero l’etica dell’intelligenza 261 


Due casi d’insipienza 

Le recensioni di Manganelli sono istruttive per pil ragioni. In primo luogo 
perché sono brani di ottima prosa; poi perché Manganelli leggeva i libri dei 
quali scriveva,'> comportamento che ci sembra avere una qualche rilevanza 
morale, e la cui trasgressione occasionale aveva a sua volta un profondo 
significato che veniva spiegato in pagine memorabili per la loro saggezza. Ecco, 
per esempio, le riflessioni dettate a Manganelli dalla non-lettura di un libro di 
Mario Puzo e dalla non-visione del film di Coppola tratto dallo stesso romanzo: 


[...] il piacere che un lettore di professione prova a non leggere // Padrino é di natura 
modesta, di qualita semplice, di intensita mediocre. Un lettore di professione € in primo 
luogo chi sa quali libri non leggere; € colui che sa dire, come scrisse una volta 
mirabilmente Scheiwiller. “non lho letto e non mi piace”. I] vero, estremo lettore di 
professione potrebbe essere un tale che non legge quasi nulla, al limite un semianalfabeta 
che compita a fatica i nomi delle strade, e solo con luce favorevole. Per un lettore medio, 
scartare il Padrino é un gioco da ragazzi. E un blando piacere negativo, come quello di 
non venire arrestati, che ci succede quasi tutti i giorni. 

(Lunario 119) 


Ancora, Manganelli, subito dopo aver sostenuto che un libro andrebbe letto un 
paio di volte prima di essere recensito, sa spiegare il significato profondo della 
mancata rilettura di un libro: “{...] il problema, a mio avviso, é€ solo 
apparentemente morale. [...] E possibile, data molta forza di carattere, leggere 
un libro che non si ama, o che anzi si ha in uggia; ma non é possibile rileggerlo” 
(Rumore 129). Una terza ragione per leggere le recensioni di Manganelli € che 
spesso trattano di classici di ogni genere: dai capolavori di Omero, Aristofane e 
Dante ai cosiddetti classici minori — non solo testi misconosciuti del prediletto 
Seicento. La recensione del classico non é mai pero la ripetizione di ovvieta su 
un libro che si finge conosciuto a tutti, né, tantomeno, un testo d’impostazione 
scolastica, bensi la risposta di un lettore che cerca di porsi di fronte ad un libro, 
magari gia conosciuto, magari gia letto decine di volte, oppure con una sua 
fama, come di fronte ad un libro mai letto e ignoto. E in questo modo che di un 
classico si possono scoprire cose nuove, come avviene quando confessa che 


per la prima, irrepetibile volta mi sono provato a leggere tutta la Divina Commedia dal 
primo verso dell’Inferno all’ultimo del Paradiso, senza soluzioni di continuita. [...] la 
lettura continuata della Divina Commedia, senza soluzioni, badando anzi di far cadere 
nello stesso giorno l’ultimo canto di una cantica e il primo della successiva, mi ha dato 
una sensazione inedita, posso paragonarla soltanto all’ascolto integrale di una lunga 


sinfonia, alla Mahler, o di una sterminata sonata. 
(Laboriose inezie 92) 


'3 “i afferma che vi siano recensori non alieni dal dar giudizio di libri letti a meta; per 
quel che mi riguarda, penso che un recensore decoroso dovrebbe leggere un libro un paio 
di volte” (Manganelli, Rumore 129). 


262 Alessandro Montani 


Infine, un quarto motivo per cui raccomandiamo la lettura delle recensioni 
di Manganelli € quello sul quale ci soffermeremo pit diffusamente e che 
consiste nella capacita di scrivere magistralmente sui libri brutti. 


L’insulso... 

Tra gli scrittori pil odiati da Manganelli vi € Capuana, per il quale prova 
“sentimenti che di rado includono Il’ammirazione, spesso il divertito interesse, la 
curiosita, ma non di rado il fastidio, il rancore e, non esiter6 a scriverlo, il vero e 
proprio obbrobrio” (Manganelli, Laboriose inezie 243). Molte sono le ragioni 
per giustificare il giudizio e alcune non stupiscono: 


[...] una certa poverta culturale, |’incauta ambizione filosofica, infine una certa faticosa e 
mal tollerata penuria linguistica confinarono il Capuana di queste novelle in angusti 
confini provinciali; e si tratti pure di pil’ province, sono tutte variamente povere, e di rado 
di dignitosa poverta. 

(243) 


Non sembrerebbe invece un giudizio automaticamente negativo quello che lo 
dipinge “certamente dotato di un pericoloso dono per la chiacchiera narrativa, 
una fatuita verbale da libertino di provincia, che col tempo si fa irresponsabile 
ciarla senile” (Laboriose inezie 243). Per uno scrittore che, come Manganelli, 
tesse continuamente |’elogio della chiacchiera e che si presenta spesso come un 
fool, se non addirittura come un demente, I’irresponsabilita e la ciarla potrebbero 
essere qualita massimamente raccomandabili: se tali non sono é per via della 
pochezza linguistica di Capuana e della sua limitata, ma ambiziosa, cultura e 
fors’anche intelligenza. Cinque anni dopo questa recensione del 1975, 
Manganelli ritorna su Capuana in una recensione brevissima ed ancora piu 
drastica, che riportiamo quasi per intero: 


Nell'introduzione, Guido Davico Bonino ci ricorda che un’opera letteraria pud essere 
“riassaporata” non solo “per cid che é” ma anche per “cid che ci insegna”. D’accordo. A 
mio avviso, Giacinta (Oscar Mondadori) non é niente, e ci insegna che un peccatore pud 
anche leggere un niente. Quando leggo Capuana ho la sensazione di compiere un peccato; 
sto sprecando ore della mia vita che non mi verranno restituite. Non crediate che Giacinta 
Sia NOiOSO; i peccati non possono essere noiosi; é inutile, e da l'impressione di non essere 
stato mai scritto. La pagina ¢ vuota, anche se sopra qualcuno ci ha messo delle parole. Mi 
pare che la TV se ne sia occupata, e non mi stupisce: adulterio e suicidio con fallito 


assassinio oggi sono fioretti. 
(Laboriose inezie 246) 


Manganelli si serve di una categoria etica, per non dire religiosa, come il 
peccato in un giudizio che non é solamente morale, ma anche estetico e persino 
ontologico. Di nuovo, possiamo pensare che i difetti (nel significato originario 





Manganelli, ovvero l’etica dell’intelligenza 263 


di “mancanza”) di Capuana'* comportino una valutazione negativa di quelli che 
altrimenti potrebbero essere dei pregi, cioé i segni insignificanti che macchiano 
una superficie vuota. Ma cid che Manganelli cerca non sono libri che lascino il 
vuoto dopo la lettura, bensi quello che, con la formula resa nota dall’antologia a 
cura di Paola Italia, egli definisce “il rumore sottile della prosa”.'° La scrittura 
per Manganelli € probabilmente un esercizio sul nulla, un’esplorazione del nulla, 
ma, appunto, non deve essere il niente. Il peccato della letteratura ed il 
conseguente peccato del lettore diventano |’essere un niente, mentre il compito 
del critico che si sia malauguratamente imbattuto in codesto niente é quello di 
smascherarlo e denunciarlo. Ma Manganelli non sarebbe pit il Manga se, dopo 
aver smascherato, non si curasse di dissimulare cid che ha appena scritto. Cosi, 
dopo aver sostenuto che il peccato di Capuana sia la sua insulsaggine, insinua 
l’idea che la televisione si sia occupata di Capuana attratta da una storia di corna 
e delitti, il che ¢ anche vero, ma poi aggiunge un commento moralistico del tutto 
improbabile da parte sua e che quindi ci induce al sospetto. E, infatti, € chiaro 
che ad accomunare il cattivo scrittore e la televisione é il nulla, il rubare un 
tempo che non si merita. 


... e Pimbecille 
Da Capuana passiamo all’autore di uno dei libri pit. degni d’insulti che mai sian 
stati dati alle stampe, cioé il Ranieri dei Sette anni di sodalizio con Giacomo 
Leopardi. La recensione di Manganelli ad una riedizione del libro esordisce in 
modo mirabile: 


Nella, ancora da scrivere ma ormai urgente, Storia della patologia letteraria italiana, 11 
libretto di Antonio Ranieri, Sette anni di sodalizio con Giacomo Leopardi (prefazione di 
Giulio Cattaneo, postfazione di Alberto Arbasino, Garzanti), edito nell’anno 1880, 
meritera certo un capitolo tutto per sé. 

(Laboriose inezie 204) 


Nonostante sul Ranieri si sia gia accanito, con tutto il suo acume ed anche la sua 
5 p : a : 6.3 
goliardia, Arbasino, con parole che Manganelli a sua volta riprende,'® i] nostro 


'* Ma, appena prima, Manganelli curiosamente definisce Capuana “colto e socievole” 
(246). 

'S “Questi libri che hanno esigua storia hanno talora, non sempre, una pagina; cioé sono 
intensamente scritti. Posso dimenticare i nomi dei protagonisti, ma mi restera in mente il 
rumore sottile della prosa. Sono inconfondibili: sono i libri che talora affaticano alla 
prima lettura, ma sbocciano superbamente ad una rilettura; e sono libri che vogliono la 
rilettura” (Manganelli, Rumore 131). 

'© “Questo imbecille di questo Ranieri, infatti, ha avuto in casa l’autore del Sabato del 
Villaggio e delle Ricordanze e della Ginestra — non |’autore de “La Marianna la va in 
campagna” o de “La Violetta la va la va”. E I’ha avuto li sette anni: serfe [...]. E non gli 


264 Alessandro Montani 


riesce ad andare ancora pili a fondo, fino a scrivere quella che ci pare come una 
delle sue pit’ geniali pagine critiche, laddove spiega che “il Ranieri usa del 
Leopardi come di un suo privato bordello spirituale” (205). La singolarita del 
Ranieri, come le citazioni da Arbasino e da Manganelli ci fanno capire, consiste 
nell’essere egli un uomo tanto idiota quanto moralmente squallido. Manganelli 
sa cogliere il punto in cui queste qualita deteriori s’intrecciano dando vita al 
detestabile libercolo: 


E vero, Ranieri Antonio era un imbecille; ma non tanto porrei codesta sua pochezza 
nell’aver taciuto cose che, verosimilmente, Leopardi non gli disse mai; nemmeno nelle 
meschine esibizioni della propria devozione anche finanziaria; la sua pochezza non é€ nel 
cattivo bene di cui fa mostra, ma nell’ignorare il grandioso male di cui era portatore. 
Questo libro trasuda odio, ma é un odio miserabilmente furbo, acquattato, malamente 
rifatto in acquarello sui grandi odii della Controriforma — penso a un Segneri parafrasato 
da un boy-scout. Nella parte migliore del Ranieri — quella che trascurata fini in mattana — 
c’era quel prodotto raro e prezioso, il puro odio di un essere in ogni altra cosa infimo per 
un essere totalmente incomprensibile, un genio sovrano di pidocchi, purulenze, sterco, 


come ogni genio. 
(206) 


Vediamo ritornare l’imperdonabile peccato dell’inadeguatezza; ma se in 
Capuana si trattava soprattutto di un fatto linguistico, in Ranieri l’inadeguatezza 
€ totale: della sua consapevolezza rispetto al suo straordinario odio e della sua 
intelligenza rispetto al genio. Entrambe le questioni sono centrali nel discorso 
critico di Manganelli e ci sembrano caratterizzare inconfondibilmente la sua 
etica. Il rapporto dello scrittore con l’odio rientra nel discorso pit generale del 
rapporto con il buio, con la notte, per usare il titolo di un volume postumo assai 
importante. Con molte precauzioni, questo rapporto puod essere formulato in 
termini psicologici, come Manganelli stesso fece in un discorso a braccio, oggi 
finalmente ripubblicato, su Jung e la letteratura. Come spesso fa, Manganelli, da 
buon teologo, comincia con una definizione ex negativo: 


Ma che cos’é la cattiva letteratura? Jung non ne da una definizione perché non € suo 
compito ovviamente, perO Jung distingue il momento visionario dal momento 
psicologico. Il momento psicologico, credo, é la cattiva letteratura, ¢ quella letteratura da 
cui il sogno viene espulso, da cui viene espulso l’incubo, l’inconscio, la nevrosi notturna. 
E la letteratura del giorno, non della domenica, ma del momento in cui sorge l’alba, i 
tram cominciano a funzionare; da quel momento in poi si puo scrivere la cattiva 


letteratura fino all’ora del coprifuoco. 
(Il vescovo 22-23) 


Poi, passa a definire la vera letteratura, quella che a lui interessa: 





chiede niente, non riferisce un fatto, un episodio, un aneddoto, una battuta, una parola 
come avendo li un sordo, un muto, un demente, un amente (Arbasino 152-53). 


Manganelli, ovvero I’etica dell’intelligenza 265 


Alora del coprifuoco comincia l’ora della letteratura vera, che ¢ sempre notturna, 
sempre nottambula e sapete che ci sono anche le cattive abitudini degli scrittori, sono 
infelici, come diceva Jung forse un pochino patronising.'’ E questo é il lato divertente 
della cosa. Infatti quale € stato uno dei momenti fondamentali secondo me 
dell’esperienza analitica nei confronti della letteratura? L’aver restituito la centralita al 
momento infernale della cultura. 

(23) 


Ancor pill perentoriamente, Manganelli giunge a sostenere che “il momento 
infernale € assolutamente centrale” (23). La cosiddetta immoralita della 
letteratura consiste proprio nell’accettazione dell’inferno, nell’accettare di 
affrontare, perdendo e spesso servendoli, i mostri, esseri, non-esseri, para-esseri 
indecifrabili, forse portatori di un significato, pit. probabilmente distruttori di 
ogni significato e che a Manganelli non interessano perché possibili metafore di 
pulsioni dell’inconscio, ma proprio in quanto mostri, emblemi di una 
(im)possibilita. Di qui i mille animali inesistenti che popolano le sue pagine. E 
ovvio che all’interno dello spaventoso giardino zoologico dell’opera di 
Manganelli, ogni etica diurna non ha alcun senso, anzi, forse non ha senso 
nessuna etica all’interno della notte, se non quella di sprofondarsi e riemergere 
dalla “palude definitiva”, che forse, come ha scritto Agamben, é la lingua stessa. 
I] gioco di Manganelli, inventore di mostri e teologie si fa terribilmente serio 


perché nell’universo di Manganelli non c’é posto per le allegorie. Il suo cosmo — come 
quello di Jarry — non &€ simbolico né allegorico, ma araldico e lo stemma — che ne 
costituisce l’archetipo — é precisamente il luogo in cui le immagini, i segni ei corpi non 


'7 Ledizione dalla quale si cita reca in realta un misterioso “Petroniusing”, comparso in 
effetti sulla prima edizione del testo (“Rivista di psicologia analitica”, IV, 2, 1973, pp. 
505-19). Evidentemente, il trascrittore che sbobino la registrazione dell’intervento, 
condizionato dal contesto della frase e del convegno in generale, azzardo un termine che 
in qualche modo potesse suonare tedesco (l’iniziale maiuscola ci conforta 
nell’interpretazione). Sulla copia degli estratti conservata oggi al Fondo Manganelli del 
Centro di ricerca sulla tradizione manoscritta di autori moderni e contemporanei 
dell’ Universita di Pavia, |’autore apporto una correzione con la lezione corretta, ma con 
l’iniziale maiuscola, evidente suggestione della grafia del testo stampato. Nella 
pubblicazione degli atti del convegno, pubblicati l’anno successivo dall’Istituto 
dell’Enciclopedia italiana, appare correttamente “patronising”, in corsivo e con l’iniziale 
minuscola. L’ultimo editore, invece, si é rifatto al testo pubblicato su rivista, scorretto in 
pit! punti. Come ulteriore curiosita, possiamo notare che tutte le correzioni apportate da 
Manganelli sulla copia degli estratti sono state accolte nella pubblicazione degli atti, 
tranne una, cosi che in un luogo si é continuato a leggere del “punto di vista della morte” 
invece del corretto “punto di vista della vita”! 


266 Alessandro Montani 


significano né sé né altro da sé; come lo sfintere (altro topos caro a Manganelli), lo 
stemma é una soglia perfettamente indecidibile tra il fuori e il dentro. 
18 
(Agamben 8) 


In questo territorio d’indecidibilita ogni affermazione non puo che rimanere al 
rango d’ipotesi, sempre pronta ad essere contraddetta. Un’angosciante 
esemplificazione é quella che ci viene offerta da un dialogo del “romanzo” 
Dall’ inferno del 1985: una bambola si é appena installata nel corpo del soggetto 
del libro, quando, dopo aver divorato frammenti di carne, comincia ad orinare e 
poi a defecare. Alla fine della tortura “mi rivolgo, di fatti, alla bambola intus, e 
inizio una perorazione argutamente argomentata, i miei temi sono a) giuridici; b) 
morali; c) sociali; d) estetici; e) teologici” (23). I cinque argomenti addotti 
saranno regolarmente confutati dalla bambola. Si notera che l’ultimo degli 
argomenti addotti é il pil importante e quello pit: schiettamente manganelliano, 
cioé il teologico: in effetti ogni etica pare essere impossibile perché al di sopra 
di essa vige sempre una teologia, ma a Manganelli la teologia interessa 
primariamente non tanto per i suoi contenuti e le sue affermazioni, quanto per la 
sua forma di discorso che puo dire qualsiasi cosa esistente ed inesistente. 

Tornando alle bassezze di Antonio Ranieri, abbiamo parlato della sua totale 
incapacita di rapportarsi al genio di Leopardi: ebbene, se c’é un altro tratto 
caratteristico del Manganelli critico é proprio |’elogio dell’ intelligenza, l’amore 
per I’artificialita della letteratura, per la cerebralita. Se ci siamo soffermati su un 
soggetto tanto modesto come Ranieri € perché in questo modo possiamo 
introdurre Giacomo Leopardi, la cui opera, come ha mostrato Andrea 
Cortellessa in un brillantissimo saggio, ¢ assolutamente centrale per Manganelli. 

Sul modo in cui Leopardi legge le Operette morali ci piace concludere. Di 
fronte ad un libro che, fin dal titolo, si presenta come un’opera filosofica e, 
soprattutto, etica, Manganelli si domanda “come mai posso transitare le pagine 
di queste Operette senza riportarne il graffio di un’idea?” (Laboriose inezie 
201). Nonostante le apparenze, Manganelli dice qualcosa di completamente 
diverso da quel che scrive a proposito di Capuana. I] fatto é che le Operette 
morali, nonostante la loro tenebrosita, sono un’ opera che recano “un inesauribile 
dono di luce” (201) grazie ad un uso della disperazione che, a Manganelli, 
sembra la stessa cosa dell’amore per Laura in Petrarca: una straordinaria figura 
retorica che annette il testo alla letteratura, rendendo superflua ogni indagine sul 
fatto se Laura esistesse oppure no e se Leopardi fosse davvero infelice. 

Nel complesso rapporto tra etica, letteratura e critica Manganelli ci insegna 
una cosa importantissima che non andrebbe mai dimenticata: affrontare la 


'§ I] paragone con Jarry non é peregrino e, non a caso, Giuliani, sodale di Manganelli 
nella neoavanguardia, in una prefazione all’Ubu allude al primo libro di Manganelli: 
“L’infamia ilaro-tragica di Ubu mette addosso un sospetto metafisico, apocalittico” 
(Giuliani XIV). 





Manganelli, ovvero l’etica dell’intelligenza 267 


vertigine delle parole e scoprire nei libri quanti pil’ possibili segreti, magari 
quelli piu ripugnanti, e, soprattutto, cogliere cid che fa di un libro qualcosa di 
unico, diverso da tutti gli altri libri e che lo rende una grande macchina retorica, 
cioé letteratura, terra in cui, si sa, non ha pit alcun senso la distinzione tra il 
falso ed il vero. Ma Manganelli traccia anche un confine, che tanto pensiero 
postmoderno, al quale verrebbe spontaneo accomunarlo, non é pili capace di 
riconoscere, cioé quello tra il discorso letterario e le altre forme di discorso. 
Quando Manganelli scrive di scienza, ammette di interessarsi alla scienza ed alla 
tecnologia (frequenti sono i suoi corsivi sui telefoni, alcuni dei quali raccolti in 
Improvvisi per macchina da scrivere) in quanto serbatoi di metafore, ma sa bene 
che esistono un mondo ed un linguaggio che appartengono al giorno e che lui 
non cancella, se non per sé solo. Un’altra lezione di lucidita e di rigore etico. 


Universita di Genova 


268 Alessandro Montani 


Opere citate 

Agamben Giorgio, /ntroduzione a G. Manganelli, Contributo critico allo studio delle 
dottrine politiche del '600 italiano, ac. di P. Napoli, Macerata, Quodlibet, 1999, pp. 
7-18. 

Arbasino Alberto, Sette anni di guai, postfazione a A. Ranieri, Sette anni di sodalizio con 
Giacomo Leopardi, intr. di G. Cattaneo, Milano, Garzanti, 1979, pp. 149-158. 

Bo Carlo, Scandalo della speranza, Firenze, Vallecchi, 1957. 

Citati Pietro, Ricordo di un amico, “La Repubblica” (18 luglio 1990), ora in Per Giorgio 
Manganelli. Pavia, 28 maggio 1992, ac. di A. Stella, Varzi, Corrado e Luigi 
Guardamagna Editori, 1992, pp. 11-19. 

Cortellessa Andrea, A/ Leopardi ulteriore. Giorgio Manganelli e le Operette morali, in 
“Quel libro senza uguali”. Le Operette morali e i/ Novecento italiano, ac. di N. 
Bellucci e A. Cortellessa, Roma, Bulzoni, 2000, pp. 335-406. 

Ducrot Oswald, Dicibile/indicibile, in Enciclopedia, vol. 4, Torino, Einaudi, 1978, pp. 
726-745. 

Giuliani Alfredo, Prefazione, a A. Jarry, Ubu, Milano, Adelphi, 1990*, pp. IX-XV. 

Kermode Frank, Shakespeare 's Language, London, Penguin, 2000. 

Manganelli Giorgio, A e B, Milano, Rizzoli, 1975. 

, Pinocchio: un libro parallelo, Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 

, Discorso dell’ombra e dello stemma o del lettore e dello scrittore considerati 
come dementi, Milano, Rizzoli, 1982. 

, La letteratura come menzogna, Milano, Adelphi, 1985. 

, Laboriose inezie, Milano, Garzanti, 1986. 

, Hilarotragoedia, Milano, Adelphi, 1987. 

, mprovvisi per macchina da scrivere, Milano, Leonardo, 1989. 

, Encomio del tiranno. Scritto all'unico scopo di fare dei soldi, Milano, Adelphi, 
1990. 

. La palude definitiva, ac. di E. Flamini, Milano, Adelphi, 1991. 

, Lunario dell’orfano sannita, Milano, Adelphi,1991. 

,/lrumore sottile della prosa, ac. di P. Italia, Milano, Adelphi, 1994. 

, La notte, a cura di S. S. Nigro, Milano, Adelphi, 1996. 

, Le interviste impossibili, Milano, Adelphi, 1997. 

, Dall’inferno, Milano, Adelphi, 1998. 

, Il vescovo e il ciarlatano. Inconscio, casi clinici, psicologia del profondo. 
Scritti 1969-1987, ac. di E. Trevi, Roma, Quiritta, 2001. 

Marcuse Herbert, La tolleranza repressiva, in R. P. Wolff — B. Moore jr — H. Marcuse, 
Critica della tolleranza, Torino, Einaudi, 1968, pp. 77-105. 

Pulce Graziella, Lettura d'autore. Conversazioni di critica e di letteratura con Giorgio 
Manganelli, Pietro Citati e Alberto Arbasino, Roma, Bulzoni, 1988. 

, Bibliografia degli scritti di Giorgio Manganelli, Firenze — Grosseto, Titivillus - 
Biblioteca Comunale Chelliana, 1996. 

Steiner George, Real Presences. Is there Anything in What We Say?, London, Faber and 
Faber, 1989. 

Tournier Michel, Venerdi o il limbo del Pacifico, Torino, Einaudi, 1994. 

Trocchi Anna, Le quarte di copertina e i risvolti autografi di Giorgio Manganelli, in Le 
foglie messaggere. Scritti in onore di Giorgio Manganelli, ac. di V. Papetti, Roma, 
Editori Riuniti, 2000, pp. 166-83. 


Francesca Parmeggiani 





Morselli e il tempo 


Sussiste un piano del naturale e del causale, oltre al piano dell’innaturale e 
dell’inspiegabile, e proprio questo coesistere esalta |’innaturale e |’inspiegabile. 
Pare che a me spetti di oscillare fra i due livelli [...] 

(G. Morselli, Dissipatio H. G. 121) 


Nell’esperienza intellettuale ed esistenziale di Guido Morselli centrale é la 
constatazione che la vita dell’uomo altro non é che lotta contro la morte “in un 
universo la cui vocazione ultima é il silenzio e l’immobilita, il ‘grado zero’ e 
cioé il livellamento al livello pit basso: l’entropia” (30 gennaio 1968, Diario 
302). Tuttavia, nonostante il pessimismo radicale, emotivo e ragionato insieme, 
Morselli non cessa di interrogarsi sull’uomo e sulla sua esperienza del tempo. 
Scrive al fratello Mario: 


Oggi i pensatori non si occupano che di questioni, in ultima analisi, metodologiche e di 
sistematica della scienza, di epistemologia tutt’al pit [...] a me piacerebbe invece farmi 
un’idea, sia pure negativa, di come viviamo, 0 se ci sia 0 no un senso qualsiasi in questa 
poco allegra faccenda che é vivere. 

(Diario 252) 


Come raccontare il tempo, sia esso quantificabile e misurabile, sia esso durata 
— articolazione in passato presente e futuro, ma anche sospensione in un eterno 
presente, tempo dell’attesa, tempo che nega la fine? Come raccontare la Storia 
— tempo agito dall’uomo o sua personalissima fondazione di un ordine — per 
indagarne o (ri)costruirne il senso? Qual é, in sostanza, il significato 
dell’esistenza umana, che é sempre, comunque, esperienza di sofferenza? 
L’esame del presente storico nel Comunista (1976), l’ipotesi avveniristica 
di Roma senza papa (1974), le ipotesi retrospettive di Contro-passato prossimo 
(1975) e Divertimento 1889 (1975), la figurazione del dopo-Storia e dell’ ex 
uomo in Dissipatio H. G. (1977) sono la risposta originale che Morselli propone 
alle domande sul significato dell’esistenza e sul rapporto tra l’uomo e la realta. 
Scegliendo di rappresentare diverse modalita di rapporto con il tempo, lo 
scrittore costruisce una “contro-realta” (Contro-passato prossimo 124). In altre 
parole, poiché il nulla o il tanto che l’uomo € rispetto all’universo é una delle 
realizzazioni in quel “ventaglio dei possibili” (Divertimento 1889) di cul 
l’uomo, individuo o societa, vive e conosce solo una minima parte, per quanto 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


270 Francesca Parmeggiani 


ad essa attribuisca valore di assoluto e totalita, e di cui solo una minima parte e 
per caso a lui si rivela, la scrittura della contro-realta finge altre possibilita 
dell’esserci per criticare il presente e il processo che ad esso porta e, in questo 
modo, individuare un senso, cioé verificare una direzione (intrapresa o ancora da 
intraprendere) nell’ esistenza. 

Concepiti e compiuti in rapida successione tra il 1964 e il 1973, i romanzi 
qui discussi sono il frutto dell’intensa riflessione su religione e teologia, 
filosofia, arte e scienza, linguaggio e letteratura, storia e societa occidentali, 
affidata principalmente alle pagine dense di quaderni privati e fogli preparatori, 
e documentata dai saggi di Fede e critica (1977) e La felicita non é un lusso 
(1994).' La scrittura creativa si offre infatti come esposizione divulgativa e 
verifica, in forme fruibili anche a livello estetico, di que! fi/osofare (leggere, 
pensare, spiegare, criticare) che, come Morselli indica e pratica nei suol 
quaderni, dev’essere esercizio del buon senso. “Come la poesia’, scrive il 3 
maggio 1963, “cosi la filosofia deve crescere in margine alla vita, e cioé essere 
riflessione sulla vita, la saggezza che affiora sull’esperienza” (Diario 229). 

Alla filosofia, cioé al pensiero come saggezza, Morselli approda quando, 
pur laureato in giurisprudenza, decide di non intraprendere una carriera in 
ambito giuridico ma, in virtu di un “istinto” che lo “trascinava a cercare in ogni 
argomento o problema la riduzione ad unita, l’idea generatrice e generalissima”, 
si dedica allo studio “accanitamente e disordinatamente” (lettera a Guido 
Calogero del 15 ottobre 1949, in La felicita non é un lusso 42). La consuetudine 
con letture filosofiche, scientifiche e letterarie, romanzi saggi articoli italiani e 


' Ho riportato tra parentesi le date di pubblicazione dei romanzi e dei saggi di Morselli. 
Per quanto riguarda la stesura dei testi di narrativa, secondo |’indicazione di Fortichiari 
nella “Nota al testo” di La felicita non é un lusso (150), I! comunista risale agli anni 
1964-1965, Roma senza papa agli anni 1966-1967, Contro-passato prossimo agli anni 
1969-1970, Divertimento 1889 al 1970-1971 e Dissipatio H. G. al 1972-1973. Dei 
quaderni privati é uscita nel 1988, con il titolo Diario, un’importante selezione a cura di 
Fortichiari. | saggi di Fede e critica furono scritti tra il 1955 e il 1956; opera include 
anche alcuni inserti diaristici datati 1942-1945, ma che, secondo Vittoz, sono 
probabilmente contemporanei alla redazione dei saggi (Guido Morselli e la figura 
dell ‘autore 45n54). Infine, in La felicita non é un lusso, Fortichiari ha raccolto testi brevi 
editi o inediti scritti tra il 1937 e il 1971. Per l’esame dell’intera opera morselliana 
rimando, oltre che all’ /nvito alla lettura di Fortichiari, alle monografie di Costa, Lessona 
Fasano e Villani. Si ricorda infine che le carte morselliane sono conservate nel Fondo 
Morselli del Centro manoscritti di Pavia, mentre il fondo librario dello scrittore ¢ 
custodito nella Biblioteca Civica di Varese. 

* Prima conseguenza di questa intensa attivita di studio e lettura sono i saggi Proust o del 
sentimento (1943) e Realismo e fantasia (1947), uniche opere che Morselli abbia mai 
pubblicate in vita. 








Morsellie iltempo 271 


stranieri, il cui commento affida quotidianamente ad un diario,’ lo portano ad 
approfondire la critica contro l’antropocentrismo ottimistico romantico e 
idealista che ha teorizzato |’annullamento della realta esterna a favore di un io 
monade, incapace di comunicazione.* 

In particolare negli anni Sessanta, riflettendo su fondamentali scoperte 
scientifiche e imprese tecnologiche del XX secolo (dalla formulazione della 
teoria generale della relativita di Einstein all’osservazione rivoluzionaria della 
struttura subatomica all’inizio del secolo, dalla scoperta della struttura del DNA 
da parte di Crick e Watson nel 1953 alle imprese spaziali statunitensi e russe 
negli anni Sessanta), Morselli vede giustamente che la ricerca scientifica e il 
progresso tecnologico condizionano |’esistenza materiale dell’uomo, ne 
sconvolgono i valori costringendolo a modificare il proprio modo di percepire il 
mondo, di pensare la realta e di conoscerla, di vivere in essa e di fruirne.” E 
attratto soprattutto dalle foto della terra scattate da satelliti artificiali e astronauti 
in missione,° le quali dimostrano che se credere nella finitezza del mondo era in 


> Sui quaderni privati di Morselli si sono soffermati, tra gli altri, Mariani che ne mette in 
luce il carattere leopardiano di laboratorio tematico-formale, e Cortellessa, per il quale la 
scrittura diaristica é luogo della “clausura” dell’autore, spazio secluso e protetto in cui 
l’autore pud pili liberamente esprimere se stesso (10-11). 

* All’indomani del suicidio dello scrittore (31 luglio 1973) e della pubblicazione postuma 
dei suoi romanzi, Coletti individua nella proposta morselliana di un realismo antiidealista 
e antistoricista, che rifiuta anche |’estrema eredita del soggettivismo romantico, cioé la 
psicoanalisi, la ragione probabile del disinteresse da parte dell’establishment culturale 
italiano di quegli anni. Sul difficile rapporto con l’editoria italiana, si veda |’articoletto 
informativo di Borgese, breve rassegna delle “bocciature” di testi e progetti o dei rifiuti di 
collaborazione che Morselli riceveva. 

* Morselli é affascinato sia dai mezzi di riproduzione e comunicazione meccanica della 
realta  (macchine fotografiche, registratori, televisioni, radio) che consentono la 
trasmissione della realta come dato che l’uomo registra per poi rispondere ad esso 
soggettivamente, sia dai mezzi di locomozione (auto, treni, aerei) che consentono al 
soggetto la creazione di uno spazio di liberta dai vincoli dell’esperienza quotidiana. Su 
questo, si vedano anche le osservazioni delle curatrici Borsa e D’Arienzo e delle 
testimonianze di Morselli raccolte in Guido Morselli: i percorsi sommersi. 

Lettore di quotidiani italiani e periodici stranieri come il National Geographic 
Magazine e Time Magazine, nei quaderni Morselli fa riferimento alle foto scattate dai 
satelliti Tiros I nel 1960 e Lunar Orbiter nel 1966 e all’impresa di Apollo 8 in orbita 
intorno alla luna il 24 dicembre 1968. Nella selezione di Diario non ho trovato, invece, 
riferimenti alla spedizione di Apollo 11 e allo sbarco del primo uomo sulla luna il 20 
luglio 1969. Morselli sembra condividere la preoccupazione di alcuni intellettuali (si veda 
l’articolo di Anna Maria Ortese a Calvino e la sua risposta del dicembre 1967, ora “II 
rapporto con la luna” in Una pietra sopra 220-22) che l’esplorazione dello spazio aprisse 
un’epoca di nuovo espansionismo coloniale e lotta per il potere. In questa direzione si 
orienta Morselli in Roma senza papa (precedente all’impresa americana di Apollo 11), 
dove immagina la spartizione della luna tra americani e russi, con l’improvvisa 


272 Francesca Parmeggiani 


passato garanzia di una possibilita di conoscenza assoluta, cioé di una 
conoscenza che l’individuo poteva ancora illudersi di ottenere completa, 
apertura dello spazio oltre la terra, come possibilita infinita e percio 
inesauribile di conquista, impone invece il riconoscimento di un limite oggettivo 
“invalicabile” all’“‘istinto di sapere” dell’uomo: non lo spazio, cioé |’estensione 
dell’oggetto da conoscere, ma il tempo, lo spazio breve della vita entro cui il 
soggetto compie |’atto conoscitivo (28 novembre 1966, Diario 273-74). 

Nel dicembre 1966, a proposito di una foto pubblicata nell’agosto 1966 dal 
Corriere della Sera in cui compaiono la luna e “una falciola di terra”, Morselli 
commenta come essa documenti inconfutabilmente |’esistenza di una realta al di 
fuori della coscienza. Pur confermando che la terra € percepibile come totalita 
complessa e conoscibile di esperienze passate, presenti e future — 


[...] ci siamo tutti, i morti come i vivi, e c’é tutto, la materia e lo spirito, 1 pozzi di 
petrolio e le colonne del Partenone, i relitti dei galeoni in fondo agli oceani e gli 
incunaboli dei musei, le minigonne e le grotte degli anacoreti, cid che resta della gloria di 
Cesare e dei successi di Maurice Chevalier, i fossili del Devoniano e la volonta di 
potenza, le Tavole della Legge e le schedine del Totocalcio. 


—, quest’immagine ridimensiona il valore dell’uomo e della sua azione, 
dimostrandone la pochezza rispetto allo spazio sconfinato che contiene il suo 
mondo: 


Tutto e tutti, riassunti in uno sguardo definitivo che é anche, nella sua sommarieta 
certamente crudele, implicita posizione di valori, dei valori rispettivi e dei valori 


complessivi. 
(Diario 279).’ 





intromissione degli svizzeri anch’essi sbarcati sullo “spento Satellite vagante a centomila 
leghe da Roma” (182). E la logica del puro interesse economico a vincere, dopo tutto, 
sull’ideologia, sia capitalista sia marxista? Qualche anno pit tardi, nel maggio 1968, in 
polemica con il “monismo speculativo” dei filosofi marxisti, annota nei suoi quaderni: 
“*Ulissidi’ sono anche gli odierni viaggiatori dello spazio, senza dubbio punti dalla 
curiosita (che io condividerei!) di vedere “quello che c’é dall’altra parte’. In coloro che li 
finanziano, interviene forse anche un interesse economico, la speranza di trovare, se non 
nuovi mercati, almeno nuove ‘fonti’ (di materie prime)? E possibile, ma si pud essere 
sicuri che molto pili forti di questo eventuale interesse economico, agiscono in loro 
impulsi del tipo nazionalistico e ideologico (la rivalita fra socialismo e neocapitalismo)” 
(Diario 317-18). 

7 In modo analogo, il 3 gennaio 1969, Morselli commenta le immagini giunte da Apollo 8 
in orbita intorno alla luna: “Tutto cid che ci costituisce, che ha costituito e fatto il passato, 
che costituira e fara il futuro: tutto, sotto gli occhi di tre esseri come me e come voi. [...] 
Che quei tre [Borman, Lovell e Anders] abbiano scelto di tornare (di tornare a 
impicciolirsi, a confondersi in quel piccolo Mondo) é naturale — e inspiegabile” (Diario 





Morselli e iltempo 273 


Con questa foto finisce la Storia come creazione dell’uomo; non finisce invece 
la storia come ciclo biologico ed evoluzione attraverso i secoli e l’uomo, 
soggetto relativo, deve finalmente riconoscere di esistere appartenendovi. 
Questo tuttavia non puo avvenire senza traumi, dato che si tratta di smantellare il 
sistema di pensiero su cui si fonda la cultura occidentale. Morselli, infatti, 
individua nella “instancabile ‘iificazione’ delle cose (e degli esseri)” — cioé 
nella riduzione della realta a mero prodotto del pensiero, che ha portato a un 
soggettivismo esasperato, fonte ora solo di insicurezza e angoscia esistenziale — 
il difetto strutturale della cultura occidentale fin dalle sue origini. “Il 
soggettivismo” — cosi spiega — “ha finito con lo scuotere le basi della nostra 
stessa consapevolezza di ‘esserci’” e la nostra crisi nasce dalla “paura di avere 
vanificato, insieme con Il’autonomia del mondo esterno, anche la realta del 
nostro ‘mondo’” (Diario 281, passim). Il soggetto contemporaneo, prima 
ipertrofico oggi in dissoluzione, cioé svuotato dall’eccesso di attivita, ha cosi 
perduto il senso e la direzione del proprio movimento esistenziale, né trova piu 
risposte rassicuranti nelle formulazioni ottimistiche della possibilita 0 certezza 
di progresso proposte in passato dal pensiero scientifico positivista e dallo 
storicismo idealista, e oggi dalla ricerca tecnologica. 

I] dramma conoscitivo che |’uomo deve affrontare, una volta che egli abbia 
riconosciuto il proprio essere ed esserci come appartenenza subordinata ad una 
realta pill vasta, oggettivamente esistente, investe anche il campo dell’etica, cioeé 
della sua presenza attiva, operante in questa realta, volta all’individuazione di 
valori e alla definizione di principi secondo i quali ordinare il proprio 
comportamento ed organizzarsi in societa civile. L’esperienza dimostra quanto 
illusorie siano la fiducia in un autonomo e pieno esercizio della volonta e |’idea 
che la vita sia progetto, ordine secondo un’intenzione volta a un fine. Ma, 
sebbene definita “moto circolare” intorno all’io, “fluttuazione”, riduzione alla 
sfera limitata dell’esperienza causata dalla sofferenza (cosi Morselli nel febbraio 
1968, Diario 309), la vita é pur sempre rapporto dinamico tra l’uomo e la realta, 
luogo dell’esperienza del soggetto, che vi esercita un dovere di conoscenza e 
critica per quanto limitatissima e mai definitiva, parte del generale processo 
evolutivo caratterizzato dal progressivo incremento di disordine e dispersione.® 
Importante, allora, € considerare come questo movimento avvenga: per quanto 





326-27): conclusione questa con cui lo scrittore ci riporta alla problematicita della 
prospettiva umana, tematizzata nei romanzi dello stesso periodo. 

* Per Morselli si pud forse parlare di un’etica della critica, strumentale alla conoscenza in 
quanto esercizio delle capacita di osservazione e discernimento nel rispetto di un 
pluralismo delle idee. Cosi scrive il 31 marzo 1969: “Criticare humanum est. Ma non nel 
senso concessivo, indulgente. Criticare é il proprio dell’uomo, é cid che gli garantisce di 
essere uomo; probabilmente, |’unica cosa che glielo possa garantire. Chi critica serve 
l’evoluzione. Chi critica, non sbaglia mai” (Diario 335-36). 


274 Francesca Parmeggiani 


fortuito, cioé casuale, in esso gli eventi si susseguono secondo una rigorosa 
logica causale.’ Il caso, cioé “l’assenza di intenzionalita nelle serie causali che 
s’incrociano” (13 marzo 1969, Diario 332), @ necessario perché la vita abbia 
una direzione (qualunque essa sia) e il soggetto possa cosi preservare la sua 
identita, la sua unicita e originalita. '° 


” Scrive infatti il 27 aprile 1965: “Mancanza di scopi non significa perO mancanza di 
cause. Se per ‘ordine’ intendiamo che ogni effetto tiene dietro puntualmente a una data 
causa, allora l’ordine lo possiamo ammettere. Inaccettabile é che ci sia uno scopo, si attui 
un piano” (Diario 249). Morselli non condivide la posizione di chi ritiene che “i nostri 
atti non siano gratuiti, non siano fortuiti, ma rispondano a un programma e nascano da 
una scelta” (24 maggio 1965, Diario 252) e anzi ne rileva la contraddittorieta. Infatti per 
eliminare la casualita dall’esperienza é necessario ricorrere alla nozione di intenzionalita, 
concetto a sua volta legato a quello di liberta. Perché vi sia vera liberta di scelta, e dunque 
realizzazione di un’intenzione, é necessario che i “risultati” siano “indifferenti a tal punto, 
che possiamo rimetterne la faziosita al giudizio (per modo di dire) del caso!” (Diario 
293). 

'° A livello narrativo Morselli presenta questa idea in Roma senza papa quando don 
Walter si domanda quale nesso vi sia tra la notizia che sulla luna sono sbarcati gli svizzeri 
e la lontanza del Papa da Roma (“Non riuscivo a scoprire il nesso fra i due eventi che mi 
veniva dato di vivere, e che dovevo pure ordinare in me se é vero che esiste un Ordine e 
che al credente spetta interpretarlo, scartando come tentazione il fortuito 0 gratuito” 182- 
83) e in Contro-passato prossimo dove osserva che, comunque si voglia leggere la 
sequenza di eventi che la vita é, sia “inflessibile razionalita della Storia” 0 “accidentale 
concorso di cause” — “concezioni ricorrenti e troppo note (contrarie solo in apparenza 
perché non sono che due andamenti dell’unico processo)” — protagonista é “l’individuo, 
con la sua immaginazione e la sua decisione” (177). In Dissipatio H. G. estremizza il suo 
pensiero quando descrive il processo mentale (“funzione-finzione logica”) con cui I’/o 
narrante cerca di farsi una ragione della realta che sta vivendo — qui l’avvenuta 
“volatilizzazione” dell’umanita intera: “Fra due cellule di una circonvoluzione qualsiasi, 
scatta una connessione, assolutamente automatica, involontaria. lo sono stato eccettuato, 
in quanto ero in una caverna [...]. II] nesso rende la conseguenza (la sorte diversa toccata 
a me) un fatto fortuito, e lo fisicizza. Questi connotati sono sufficienti, quantunque il fatto 
non si spieghi nemmeno cosi, e tanto meno si spieghino altri fatti successivi. 
Autorizzano, provvisoriamente, un’ipotesi [...]. Cosa pitt importante, aprono una 
prospettiva di agire, suggeriscono un tentativo. E é un conforto” (114; corsivo mio). La 
casualita genera progettualita, dal fortuito nasce la costruzione istintiva di un senso, 
Pintenzione volta all’azione, cioé alla realizzazione di un fine che qui é la verifica 
dell’ipotesi che altre persone, i minatori anch’essi protetti dalla montagna, si siano 
salvati. Avere un progetto é per I’fo un modo per consistere e vincere la morte. La 
domanda di Roma senza papa, \a rappresentazione di Contro-passato prossimo e la 
drammatizzazione di Dissipatio H. G. ripropongono sinteticamente semplicemente e 
chiaramente la riflessione di Morselli su idealismo, intuizionismo e pragmatismo, sul 
rapporto tra scienza e filosofia e la discussione fondamentale condotta da scienziati e 
filosofi sin dall’inizio del secolo sulle implicazioni etiche e gnoseologiche della teoria 
della relativita di Einstein e del principio di indeterminazione di Heisenberg, sul rapporto 


Morselli e iltempo 275 


In una nota del 14 febbraio 1968, inserita quasi verbatim nel testo di 
Dissipatio H. G. in forma di dialogo tra I’io narrante e Mylius (77-79), Morselli 
scrive: 


Parliamo pure di dinamismo vitale dell’individuo, di molteplicita virtualmente “infinita” 
di relazioni, cioé di esperienze. Ma persuadiamoci che sono chiacchiere. Ognuno di noi 
[...] € vincolato a un suo minuscolo frammento di realta, e di fatto non ne esce. [...] 
Intorno c’é il possibile, che mai non diviene reale, e a questa immensita siamo chiusi e 
remoti, e d’altronde indifferenti se vogliamo confessarcelo; per fortuna nostra, perché 
diversamente ci disperderemmo, non consisteremmo, non “saremmo”. Determinazione é 
negazione, il nostro status di individui suppone questi esigui confini, siamo fatti di 
esclusione, di occ/usione. Ma questo imparenta la vita, almeno la nostra, al suo cosiddetto 
contrario. La differenza rimane ed é, si capisce, importante: la vita é occlusione pit uno 
spiraglio, ma l’occlusione non ci é meno essenziale di cid che la interrompe: di quello 
spiraglio. 

(Diario 310-11) 


Da un lato la vita, simile in questo alla morte, € necessariamente definita dalla 
esiguita, al limite assenza di esperienza, dall’ignoranza dell’altro e degli altri, 
necessariamente perché altrimenti vivremmo dispersi nelle cose''; dall’altro, 
essa € caratterizzata dalla minima possibilita, uno spiraglio, di una crescita di 
esperienza sempre, almeno potenzialmente, attuabile.'” 

Se consideriamo che per Morselli tutto cid che entra nel campo 
dell’esperienza, sia pure un nome a cui non corrisponde una sostanza materiale, 
diviene “realta fattuale”, é dunque sapere,'> comprendiamo anche come mai 
negli stessi anni in cui formula e trascrive il suo pensiero, egli intensifichi 


tra caso e necessita in natura, e liberta e determinismo nell’esperienza umana. Testimone 
a distanza degli interessi storici, filosofici e scientifici di Morselli e suo interlocutore per 
il chiarimento e l’esposizione di alcune tesi € stato il fratello Mario. Si veda di Mario 
Morselli il ricordo della personalita intellettuale di Guido pubblicato su Autografo. 

'' Si veda anche il diario del 9 aprile 1969: “II morto é colui che spinge all’eccesso 
quell’indifferenza, che asceti, santi, eroi praticano gia a un alto grado, ma che tutti noi 
sperimentiamo, e sulla quale anzi si fonda la nostra individualita, che é tale nella misura 
in cui esclude da noi il mondo, o la massima parte di esso. Tant’é vero che quanto piu 
siamo ‘dispersi’ nelle cose, tanto meno fondata, ‘autentica’, ¢ la nostra personalita” 
(Diario 336). 

'2 A questo proposito é importante notare che, nel passaggio dal diario al romanzo, 
Morselli attenua |’espressione dei quaderni “il possibile, che mai non diviene reale” nella 
variante “il possibile, che non diventa quasi mai reale (per noi)” (corsivo mio). 

3 “f | io direi che la vera autorita, il vero prestigio, appartengono a quella vasta e 
sovrana ‘istituzione’ che € per ciascuno di noi, anche se incolto, la realta fattuale. Quel 
sistema di enti e di fatti, prima che di nozioni, in cui la realta consiste, e a cui l’esperienza 
da accesso a ciascuno di noi, sia pure schiudendone solo una modesta porzione” (6 
dicembre 1966, Diario 275). 


276 Francesca Parmeggiani 


lattivita creativa. La scrittura ¢ farsi realta fattuale di un’ipotesi, € il pensiero 
— memoria e fantasia — che entra nella sfera dell’esperienza e diviene 
conoscenza della realta. La narrazione che ha come oggetto il tempo é il luogo 
privilegiato, in quanto esterno ai fatti pur riproducendone i rigorosi meccanismi 
di accadimento, da cui osservare e criticare la societa contemporanea superando, 
attraverso l’atto di raccontare che € movimento e dovere fondamentale di 
adesione alla realta, il vizio d’intransigenza intellettuale —- vero limite 
metodologico — caratteristico di ogni pensatore pronto a “‘scarta[re] la realta se 
non va d’accordo col suo pensiero” (20 gennaio 1966, Diario 265)."* 

Vicina a modelli anglosassoni e mitteleuropei per forma e contenuti, la 
scrittura che Morselli elabora negli anni Sessanta include invenzione e cronaca; 
€ creazione di una forma letteraria flessibile e capace perché compromesso tra 
riflessione teorica e prassi artistica.'" Morselli non rinuncia a chiamarla 
“romanzo”. Per lo scrittore, infatti, il romanzo é “fatto letterario [...] ampio, 
multivoro o eteroclito” (30 luglio 1965, Diario 257), “il super-genere, o il 
genere pan-letterario” (8 giugno 1966, Diario 270n28), sinonimo stesso di 


'* Morselli torna frequentemente sul tema dell’intolleranza di chi ritiene valido solo il 
prodotto del proprio pensiero (si vedano in particolare le osservazioni del 30 dicembre 
1956 e del 7 maggio 1963, Diario 173-74 e 230). Riconoscendo perd che questa 
intransigenza — in realta istinto dell’uomo teso spontaneamente all’affermazione di sé 
attraverso le proprie idee — é caratteristica anche del suo modo di formulare il pensiero, 
ad essa Morselli reagisce intensificando il suo interesse per il raccontare, ovvero per 
latto che racchiude, anche nel proprio nome, il movimento e dovere fondamentale di 
adesione alla realta. Cosi scrive il 16 febbraio 1969: “Erzahlen, raccontare, Zahlen, 
contare. Conter, raccontare, compter, contare. To recount, raccontare, to count, contare. 
Anche in italiano, ‘contare’ vale spesso per ‘raccontare’. Sicché, nelle quattro grandi 
lingue occidentali, il raccontare, il narrare, e il numerare (e calcolare), sono funzioni che 
la coscienza linguistica considera affini. Probabilmente perché chi narra é tenuto alla 
‘precisione’ e alla oggettivita: non pud inventare, deve ‘riferire’. La coscienza linguistica 
sente che il narrare, non solo é ‘prosa’, ma é impegno di aderenza alla realta” (Diario 
329), 

'S I] narrare, infatti, non esclude una componente di creativita e invenzione, come spiega 
intervenendo nel dibattito sul romanzo in quegli stessi anni Sessanta: “Da noi il romanzo 
si identifica virtualmente con la ‘narrativa’, una locuzione che richiama I’attivita di chi 
espone fatti, cronaca, storia; nei paesi anglo-sassoni, € tutt’uno con la ‘fiction’, ossia con 
l’attivita di chi ‘immagina’ e magari sogna, con la invenzione” (30 luglio 1965, Diario 
256). Sul carattere saggistico della narrativa morselliana, si vedano gli articoli di Coletti e 
di Segre. Pit’ recentemento Rinaldi ha offerto una dettagliata analisi tematico-stilistica 
degli scritti di Morselli evidenziandone sia l’affinita con modelli modernisti (crisi del 
soggetto e del senso, riduzione della parola a rumore o a silenzio) sia il carattere 
innovativo, preludio a modalita narrative postmoderne (scrittura  divertissement, 
straniamento spazio-temporale, minimalismo strutturale e astrazione narrativa). 


Morselli e iltempo 277 


letteratura.'° Inutile decretarne la fine, come vogliono alcuni, muore solo cid che 
€ definibile, cioé riducibile a una rete di norme, non cid che costantemente si 
trasforma comprendendo in sé il sapere e l’esperienza. Nella sua fiction 
narrativa, dal Comunista a Dissipatio H. G., in cui propone realta fittive ma 
sempre costruite a partire dalla verita storica, Morselli recupera infine il 
pensiero-saggezza, cioé la riflessione sull’esperienza dell’uomo nel tempo, e, 
ora esaminando il processo storico che ad essa ha portato (cosi é per // 
comunista ma soprattutto per Contro-passato prossimo), ora ipotizzandone 
levoluzione sul piano politico e culturale (cosi € in Roma senza papa), valuta 
criticamente la societa contemporanea. 

Alcuni esempi. Morselli analizza il conflitto di ideologie tra i due blocchi, 
statunitense e sovietico, in piena Guerra Fredda e, in questo, la presenza 
europea, quando in Roma senza papa fa riferimento al Grande Arbitrato, cioé 
alla spartizione della luna tra gli Stati Uniti e Unione Sovietica, e in Contro- 
passato prossimo immagina che la Prima Guerra Mondiale si concluda di fatto 
con la vittoria della Germania e la creazione dell’ UNOD (Unione delle Nazioni 
Occidentali Democratiche), primo nucleo della Comunita Europea che trova una 
propria identita, prima economica poi anche costituzionale e politica, senza 
coinvolgere gli Stati Uniti, esclusi, nell’invenzione morselliana, tanto dai 
combattimenti quanto dal processo di pace conclusivo. Lo scrittore commenta il 
ruolo politico e culturale della Chiesa nel secondo Novecento quando in Roma 
senza papa rappresenta Roma e il Vaticano privi del Papa perché ritiratosi a 
Zagarolo. I] Papa tuttavia ancora esercita una funzione politica fondamentale, 
tanto che a lui é affidata la soluzione dell’Arbitrato, mentre Roma, citta delle 
“telepiste del Centurvat, o Centro Turistico Vaticano” (9), di altoparlanti, 
fonovideo, pneumatiche e microcotteri, é “‘incrocio’ di vie e correnti e tendenze, 
non nel senso di irradiamento, e di convergenza insieme. Ci si passa ancora per 
Roma, per forza, ma diretti chissa dove, ciascuno per una ragione propria che 
qui non ha pit la sua origine, o il suo termine” (93). E, ancora, critica 
l’irrigidimento ideologico del marxismo, favorevole invece a un socialismo 
moderato quando in Contro-passato prossimo Rathenau, vero fautore della 
vittoria tedesca e mente della neofederazione europea, risponde alle proposte 
unilaterali dell’unione socialista orientale. Mentre la vicenda di Walter Ferranini 
nel Comunista é nel suo complesso una parabola sul processo di disillusione 
ideologica di fronte alla realta partitico-parlamentare del comunismo italiano 
postbellico. 

Morselli osserva con perplessita l’impatto dei mass media sulla cultura 


'© Scrivera, autocitandosi, nell’“Intermezzo critico” di Contro-passato prossimo: “Oggi il 
romanzo non é nella letteratura, é /a letteratura. Da esso non si esce. Aggiungerei che il 
romanzo é persino transletterario [...]” (117). 


278 Francesca Parmeggiani 


contemporanea,'’ il fenomeno del turismo (in Roma senza papa & quello 
organizzato dai Canonici Cook, “la benemerita congregazione che presiede a 
viaggi e turismo del clero [...]. La Chiesa, dunque, si muove” 119-20), la 
degradazione dell’ambiente e la moda psicoanalitica, sia come disciplina 
scientifica sia come strumento di interpretazione del testo. 

Spazio di liberta creativa e interpretativa, la scrittura, sia essa riscrittura del 
presente e del passato o proposta congetturale del futuro, acquista credibilita e 
valore quanto piu accuratamente riproduce i meccanismi di accadimento dei fatti 
operanti nella realta. Lo scrittore veste cosi i panni dello storico, di colui che, 
come spiega in una nota del 20 giugno 1956, “si trasferisce nel passato” con lo 
scopo “di staccare gli avvenimenti gli uni dagli altri, di districarli, per averli 
come unita logiche distinte, per quanto collegate dal nesso causale” (Diario 167- 
68).'* Ma anche li abbandona quando frappone tra sé e i fatti la distanza 
dell’invenzione, unica che consenta allo scrittore di entrare nella realta senza 
esserne sopraffatto. Riscrivere il passato o immaginare il futuro é certo azione 
arbitraria e paradossale, ma di una fantasia liberata dal “‘timore reverenziale” per 
il fatto (Diario 383) — e per la Storia come mera “proiezione astratta che gli 
scrittori di storia [...] hanno fatto della propria funzione” (Diario 369) — di un 
pensiero che diviene discorso critico proprio perché si fa fantasia, invenzione, 


'7 A questo proposito sono interessanti alcune osservazioni che registra nel luglio 1961 
sul linguaggio moderno — _ eccessivamente indiretto, cioé caratterizzato da 
circonlocuzioni, eufemismi, perifrasi che si sostituiscono al singolo sostantivo. Morselli 
spiega che noi, uomini in fuga dalla realta, timorosi del contatto diretto con le cose, 
incapaci ormai di chiamarle con il loro nome, modelliamo la parola della nostra 
quotidianita secondo quella di scienza e tecnica apparentemente per spiegare la natura e 
classificarla, in realta per addomesticarla e per allontanarla. Ma, si chiede ancora, perché 
cercare rifugio nelle vaghe astrazioni dei concetti, perché tale e tanta “paura del 
concreto”? Oggetto di critica € qui, come nell’opera narrativa successiva, la pseudo- 
cultura della societa di massa, quella che televisione e giornali propongono e impongono 
fabbricando la realta, sostituendosi ad essa e in questo modo diseducando |’uomo comune 
al pensiero e ad una prassi critica coerente, attraverso un linguaggio che é “denso strato 
opaco di glossemi oscuri o di tronfi paralogismi; di spuria estrazione speculativa, dal 
quale cala una specie di retorica nebbia, a offuscare le intelligenze, a ottundere i contorni 
delle cose” (Diario 219). Allinizio degli anni Settanta risalgono altre riflessioni sul 
pericolo che l’uomo usi la tecnologica per “attenuare la presenza delle cose”, per “filtrare 
il mondo”, per “sottrarsi a un contatto diretto, che non ci attrae, anzi ci respinge” (Diario 
346), e sul contributo dei mezzi di comunicazione di massa a quella che oggi chiamiamo 
globalizzazione e che Morselli caratterizza come “senso di ubiquita” e di apparente 
solidarieta sociale (“socialidarieta” tanto nei quaderni quanto nei romanzi), in verita 
semplice aggregarsi per scopi utilitaristici (Diario 349-52). 

'§ Cosi anche nell’“Intermezzo” diaristico di Fede e critica, quando Morselli spiega che 
lo scrittore di storia “deve chiamare le cose col loro nome, e anzitutto vedere le cose 
come sono, il che non significa fare il processo ai fatti, significa mettersi in condizione di 
parlarne” e dunque di conoscerli, di comprenderli (98). 





Morselli e iltempo 279 


gioco metodologico. Da questo deriva la dimensione ludica, fortemente ironica 
(si veda, per esempio, |’uso delle parentetiche ammiccanti al lettore in Contro- 
passato prossimo) e autoparodica dei romanzi morselliani, anche nella forma di 
un insistito autobiografismo e (auto)citazionismo puntualmente notati e discussi 
dalla critica.'” 

Riproducendo l’esperienza umana del tempo e della Storia (“intermezzo 
breve”, come é detto in Dissipatio H. G. 87, nel pit vasto ciclo naturale) e 
dunque costruendo fra sé e gli eventi la distanza del giudizio critico, lo scrittore 
€ costretto — e costringe i suoi lettori — a confrontarsi con la realta fattuale. Ma 
proprio perché nella sua rappresentazione |’autore include varie storie — 
P’accaduto, il non accaduto e il probabile storico — |’analisi tende a concentrarsi 
sul presente extra-diegetico. Entrati nel testo, passato e futuro sono lenti che 
affinano |’acutezza dello sguardo sulla realta politica, sociale e culturale vissuta 
dall’autore.”° 

Cosi nel Comunista i frammenti del passato di Ferranini come volontario 
nella guerra di Spagna, emigrato in America, militante comunista in Emilia, si 
compongono in unita con l’esperienza presente di deputato a giustificare il 
sentimento particolare di delusione e disillusione politica e un senso generale di 
insoddisfazione esistenziale. Ma questo stato d’animo riflette la situazione di 
stallo che lo scrittore riscontra esaminando il conflitto ideologico tra gli Stati 
Uniti e Unione Sovietica. In Roma senza papa, il presente del personaggio, 


'" Caso esemplare di autoparodia é la frase che Morselli attribuisce all’autore 
nell’“Intermezzo critico” di Contro-passato prossimo per giustificare la “rivisita” del 
passato che il romanzo vuole essere, contro “le solite prospezioni immaginose del 
futuro”. “Chi anticipa un mondo futuro”, continua, “inevitabilmente lo fa vuoto di 
uomini, popolato solo di fantasmi” (118-19). Che cosa dire allora di Roma senza papa, 
testo compiuto solo qualche anno prima e ambientato, con proiezione cronologica nel 
futuro, alla fine del XX secolo? Da un lato Morselli mette in gioco se stesso come 
scrittore, dall’altro si diverte a confondere o a mettere alla prova |’ipotetico lettore dei 
suoi scritti. A proposito dell’(auto)citazionismo di Morselli, gioco denso e complesso di 
richiami intertestuali tra i quaderni e 1 romanzi — “derive intertestuali” li definisce Flavia 
Ravazzoli (73) — si vedano le utilissime note di Fortichiari in Diario, |’analisi delle carte 
preparatorie di Dissipatio H. G. proposta da D’Arienzo e la lettura dello stesso romanzo 
offerta da Mari. Sempre a proposito di Dissipatio H. G., Pierangeli avverte che lo sfoggio 
di erudizione filologica, filosofica e letteraria di Morselli cela spesso “citazioni sbagliate, 
inventate 0 etichettate con indirizzi falsificanti ma verosimili”, come se lo scrittore 
volesse prendersi gioco del lettore. Situazione in fondo paradossale, dato che Morselli 
drammatizza nel romanzo proprio la ricerca di un interlocutore, dell’a/tro, per uscire dal 
mondo solipsistico e monologante dell’io (17). 

?° Interessante la lettura di Segre che vede in questo costante ritornare al presente il limite 
ideologico di Morselli. Lo scrittore, sebbene proponga mondi alternativi (cosi € in 
Contro-passato prossimo, Roma senza papa e Dissipatio H. G., anche se con modalita di 
volta in volta diverse), é incapace di allontanarsi dal centro della sua esperienza senza poi 
rivalutarlo e riappropriarlo. 


280 Francesca Parmeggiani 


cioe il viaggio che don Walter compie a Roma negli anni Novanta per incontrare 
il Papa, altro non é che proiezione nell’ipotetico futuro dell’immaginazione di 
eventi e discussioni contemporanee all’autore (e tuttora attuali): dall’opera di 
mediazione politica della Chiesa in conflitti internazionali — al Papa, si é detto, 
€ affidata la soluzione dell’Arbitrato — alla discussione sul celibato dei preti, 
dall’utilizzazione dei mezzi di comunicazione di massa nell’opera di 
evangelizzazione all’attuazione di una volonta ecumenica, che rischia tuttavia di 
diventare confuso sincretismo religioso e filosofico. 

In Contro-passato prossimo € \autore, 0 un suo alter ego, che, 
intervenendo nel testo, interrompe la narrazione per spiegare quale sia il 
significato, quale lutilita di un’operazione letteraria che riscrive il passato. In 
essa la distanza dal presente é annullata nella scelta di analizzare i fatti 
privilegiando la prospettiva socio-politica su quella scientifico-tecnologica: “‘I 
ruoli rispettivi dei popoli europei,” spiega l’autore all’editore, “nella guerra 
implausibile come nella pace (e nell’unita) necessaria: |’odio-amore fra Europa e 
URSS: il giuoco dialettico dei socialismi. Sono fondamentalmente gli stessi, 
oggi e, diciamo, nel 1918” (123). Il fine dichiarato dall’autore é la “critica ‘alla’ 
Storia” (123), per mostrare che le “res gestae [...] erano gerendae 
diversamente” (117) e che la storia non é fatta né da eroi né da deboli, ma da 
uomini, “attori delle loro azioni’”, con la loro individualita sintesi di 
“intelligenza”, “fantasia”, “‘tenacia’”, “carattere” e volonta, e percid “eccezione, 
‘isola’, pur entro alla universa fatalita, nella quale il necessario e il fortuito si 
congiungono inseparabilmente” (122). I] confronto con laccaduto attraverso 
l’invenzione di una contro-storia smentisce l’ottimismo storicista e dimostra 
l’irrazionalita del reale. L’autore conclude: 


Il paradosso sta dalla parte dell’accaduto: dall’altra parte se ne sta, sconfitta, quella che 
chiamiamo [...] ‘logica delle cose’. La cucitura del ‘contro-passato’ sul passato, nel 
racconto, diventa visibile proprio nel punto dove il congruo e il sensato si sostituiscono 


i - 2 
all’incongruo e all’insensato, ecc.”| 
(121) 


E, aggiungiamo, é proprio la visibilita di questo innesto che rende visibile, a sua 
volta, la figura dell’autore, anch’egli uomo dotato di fantasia e intelligenza 
originale. Con lo stratagemma metanarrativo dell’“Intermezzo”, infatti, Morselli 
costruisce la propria figura di autore in quanto legittima la sua funzione artistica, 
mentre cerca di assicurarsi l’attenzione critica del lettore inducendolo ad 
assecondare o a confutare, comunque a leggere e a discutere il suo testo e la 
polemica che attraverso di esso conduce contro il pensiero idealista. 


*! Sullo stesso argomento Morselli scrivera il 18 agosto 1972: “Il razionale in senso 
storico, non coincide con cid che é moralmente positivo o perfetto, o che vi aspira: come, 
su un altro piano, non si indentifica con cid che é esteticamente bello, o che vi tende” 
(Diario 379). 





Morsellie iltempo 281 


A livello diegetico, invece, continua ad affrontare il tema del rapporto 
problematico che l’uomo comune intrattiene con il tempo nell’esperienza 
quotidiana. Ulteriore alter ego dell’autore, Walter von Allmen, “storico e 
artista”, ma anche uomo d’armi e dunque uomo d’azione, testimone del 
succedersi degli eventi dall’invasione austriaca dell’Italia settentrionale alla 
formazione di una nuova Europa, registra ed interpreta la storia nei suoi diari. 
von Allmen é I’anti-eroe che per una serie di circostanze fortuite mette in moto 
l’austriaca “Edelweiss Expedition”, il cui modello di efficienza militare tattica e 
operativa — spostamento lampo delle truppe, accerchiamento a sorpresa del 
nemico con limitate perdite umane — é imitato dalla Germania, che in breve 
rompe la linea difensiva franco-belga e arriva alle porte di Parigi.”” 

Come Ferranini che, nella conclusione del Comunista, si sente in pace solo 
quando lontano dalla terra, sospeso, sull’aereo che lo sta riportando in Italia; 
come don Walter che il colloquio con papa Giovanni XXIV riporta a Cristo, ad 
una verita per il credente semplicissima, quasi banale, eppure dimenticata o 
strumentalizzata, ormai assente nella societa di fine secolo, ad una religione che 
si spoglia del suo carattere istituzionale (“Dio non é prete” 177); cosi anche von 
Allmen vive irrequieto: guarda nostalgicamente al passato della grande Austria 
ma si rende conto che questo sguardo é retorica “archeologia sentimentale” e 
che il passato € da “rievocare proprio e unicamente con la neutralita dello 
storico, che é l’abitante di un’altra terra” (Contro-passato prossimo 257). 
Invano, allora, cerca le ragioni della sua inquietudine con I’aiuto della 
psicoanalisi. 

Inquietudine e sospensione accomunano la conclusione delle vicende di 
questi personaggi; lo scrittore ne ha rappresentato il rapporto problematico con il 
tempo per scoprire, a sua volta, la difficolta di narrarlo. I] contrasto che in 
Contro-passato prossimo si nota tra lottimismo del personaggio-autore 
dell’“Intermezzo critico” e l’inquietudine di von Allmen nel racconto é 
svelamento della contraddizione di una scrittura che si confronta con il tempo. 
Cosa in fondo la distingue dall’operazione dello scrittore di storia (per Morselli, 


2 Nell’invenzione di Morselli, oltre all’azione militare sara la politica di Walther 
Rathenau, illuminata perché pragmatica e saggiamente orientata verso la ricerca di un 
equilibrio sociale ed economico, a risolvere il primo conflitto mondiale e ad evitare il 
secondo. Interessante a questo proposito il colloquio di von Allmen con un giovane 
austriaco di nome Adolf Hitler, che, placata la sua volonta di potenza con la vittoria del 
germanesimo sul continente europeo (in realta, come si € visto, pit moderata 
affermazione di una /eadership politica della Germania), pud ora dedicarsi alla sua 
“seconda vocazione”, la pittura (Contro-passato prossimo 253-54). Sul carattere utopico 
della Mitteleuropa morselliana, di ricercata compensazione letteraria dinnanzi al crollo 
delle illusioni dell’epoca rievocata, si veda il saggio di Di Grado che dimostra il suo 
assunto proprio analizzando |’“inattualita” del Rathenau morselliano rispetto alle 
rappresentazioni critiche di Musil nell’ Uomo senza qualita e di Ernst von Salomon nei 
Proscritti. 


282 Francesca Parmeggiani 


storico e storiografo sono sinonimi) per il quale “tout comprendre (delle cause) 
equivale a tout justifier (degli effetti, come che siano)” e, “lo dichiari 0 no, esiste 
un determinismo (un evento come ragione sufficiente di eventi successivi)” (18 
agosto 1972, Diario 379)? E il contributo dell’immaginazione sufficiente a 
cautelare lo scrittore da un eccesso di soggettivismo, a garantire la validita e la 
significativita della sua azione conoscitiva, interpretativa, critica della realta? 
Morselli, né storico né poeta perché né “si trasferisce” nei fatti né “vi evade”, 
ma uomo alla ricerca di un senso, consapevole che la letteratura, in questo non 
diversa dalla scienza, é processo metaforico che elude la sostanza delle cose, 
condivide il senso di disagio dei suoi personaggi. 

In Dissipatio G. H., travestimento romanzesco, nell’accezione morselliana, 
della sua precedente produzione e dunque drammatizzazione della condizione 
dell’autore, non pili distinguibile da quella umana, Morselli rappresenta il 
soggetto che, intrappolato entro il proprio jo, esplora un universo in cui 
umanita é scomparsa. Per un caso inspiegabile, egli vede materializzato il suo 
antico desiderio di ridurre la realta a se stesso. Cosi riflette prima dell’evento: 


[...] 10 facevo il mio solito giuoco, parentesizzare |’esistenza di miei simili, figurarmi 
come Il’unico pensante in una creazione tutta deserta. Deserta di uomini, s’intende. In 
questi casi, il mio discorso interno si pud decorare di pedanteria: Hegel ha sognato una 
realta in sé e per sé, io sognavo una realta come me e per me. Dove gli altri non hanno 
luogo, perché non ci sono. Con un’ulteriore differenza rispetto a Hegel e ai romantici, che 
quelli, non si sa a che scopo, identificavano il reale col Soggetto, io lo volevo nella sua 


perfetta oggettivita. Mio, perd, esclusivamente mio. 
(51) 


Perfetto esempio di soggetto ipertrofico, il protagonista ha iificato la realta 
intorno a sé e ne é stato sopraffatto. 

Morselli si cimenta per ultimo con la fine della Storia, tempo agito, 
costruito dall’uomo. Contro-realta é allora sospensione del tempo in eterno 
presente, “permanenza del provvisorio”, ‘“dilatazione estrema dell’attimo”, 
“stato di differibilita assoluta” (145), nell’inquietante consapevolezza che se la 


23 


Lo storico si trasferisce nel passato, il poeta vi “evade’”, aveva scritto, lo ricordo, il 20 
giugno 1956 (Diario 168). Ed é questa un’affermazione che consente di capire in quale 
rapporto siano l’esperienza narrativa di Contro-passato prossimo e il gioco inventivo di 
Divertimento 1889. Opera che precede cronologicamente la composizione di Dissipatio 
H. G., Divertimento 1889, racconto di una vacanza speciale di Umberto I di Savoia, é in 
sostanza una divagazione scherzosa sul tema della riscrittura del passato, “una fuga fra 1 
fantasmi della bella epoca”, come Morselli osserva rivolgendosi ad una _ lettrice 
immaginaria alla fine del romanzo (187). Lo scrittore, qui pit. poeta che storico, sembra 
prendere le distanze dall’esperienza di Contro-passato prossimo, libro che, secondo 
’autore nell’Intermezzo critico”, “non appartiene alla letteratura evasoria, non € una 
fuga all’indietro” (123). 


Morselli e iltempo 283 


Storia pud finire, non cosi il tempo, vero limite invalicabile. E questa 
l’esperienza trans-storica del protagonista. Egli consiste nel dopo-Storia, in 
attesa — no, si corregge la voce, nella certezza (anche la nozione di attesa, infatti, 
non ha pit! senso “in questa strana eternita” 154) — che si manifesti il senso 
della sua esperienza, che si apra lo spiraglio di una rivelazione, che ritorni 
Karpinsky, “il medico che mi curava” (62). Rivelazione di un caso benevolente 
o di un dio caritatevole? 


Fordham University, New York 


284 Francesca Parmeggiani 


Opere citate 


Borgese Giulia, Caro signor Morselli, mi duole comunicarle..., “Corriere della Sera” (4 
maggio 1998). 

Calvino Italo, Una pietra sopra, Milano, Mondadori, 1995. 

Coletti Vittorio, Guido Morselli, “Otto/Novecento” 5 (1978), 89-115. 

Cortellessa Andrea, “Es ist genug’: Guido Morselli sull'estrema soglia, “La Scrittura” 4 
(1996-97), 5-16. 

Costa Simona, Guido Morselli, “Il Castoro” 169, Firenze, La Nuova Italia, 1981. 

D’Arienzo Sara, “Il cantiere della Dissipatio H. G.: ipotesi di lettura degli appunti 
preparatori’, Autografo 37 (1998), 9-21. 

Di Grado Antonio, Mitteleuropa come utopia: il ‘contrappasso’ di Guido Morselli, 
“Rassegna della letteratura italiana” 88.3 (1984), 457-63. 

Fortichiari Valentina, /nvito alla lettura di Guido Morselli, Milano, Mursia, 1984. 

Guido Morselli: i percorsi sommersi. Inediti, immagini, documenti, ac. di Elena Borsa e 
Sara D’Arienzo, Novara, Interlinea, 1999. 

Lessona Fasano Marina, Guido Morselli. Un inspiegabile caso letterario, Napoli, 
Liguori, 1998. 

Mari Michele, Estraneo agli angeli e alle bestie (lettura di Dissipatio H. G.), 
“Autografo” 37 (1998), 49-58. 

Mariani Carlo, Guido Morselli, “Studi novecenteschi” 41 (1991), 7-48. 

Morselli Guido, // comunista, Milano, Adelphi, 1991. 

, Contro-passato prossimo, Milano, Adelphi, 1987. 

. Diario, ac. di Valentina Fortichiari, Milano, Adelphi, 1988. 

. Dissipatio H. G., Milano, Adelphi, 1994. 

, Fede e critica, Milano, Adelphi, 1977. 

. La felicita non é un lusso, ac. di Valentina Fortichiari, Milano, Adelphi, 1994. 

. Roma senza papa. Cronache romane di fine secolo ventesimo, Milano, Adelphi, 





2000. 
Morselli Mario, [senza titolo], “Autografo” 37 (1998), 79-84. 
Pierangeli Fabio, Guido Morselli: l’impronta umana e i “trascorsi eruditi’, “La 


Scrittura” 4 (1996-97), 17-19. 

Ravazzoli Flavia, // commento narrativo di Dissipatio H. G., in Guido Morselli dieci anni 
dopo (1973-1983), Atti del convegno (Gavirate, 22-23 ottobre 1983), Gavirate, 
Comune di Gavirate, 1984, 69-90. 

Rinaldi Rinaldo, / romanzi a una dimensione di Guido Morselli, “Critica letteraria” 
24.91-92 (1996), 667-91. 

Segre Cesare, Guido Morselli e i mondi alternativi, in Guido Morselli dieci anni dopo 
(1973-1983), Atti del convegno (Gavirate, 22-23 ottobre 1983), Gavirate, Comune 
di Gavirate, 1984, 19-30. 

Villani Paola, // “caso” Morselli. Il registro letterario-filosofico, Napoli, Edizioni 
Scientifiche Italiane, 1998. 

Vittoz Dominique, Guido Morselli e la figura dell ‘autore, “Autografo” 37 (1998), 23-48. 


Giancarlo Lombardi 





Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions 
of Accountability in the Cinema of the stragi di stato 


Brescia, Piazza della Loggia, May 17, 1974. Trade unionist Franco Castrezzari is 
addressing a crowd gathered to protest against neo-fascist resurgence when a bomb 
explodes, disseminating fear and destruction: 8 people die, 103 are injured. From his 
podium, Castrezzari witnesses the arrival of the police and of carabinieri who 
immediately begin to wash the blood out of the pavement. Along with the blood, most 
precious traces that would have helped the investigation disappear forever. 


The Tyrrhenian Sea, in that stretch of water that separates Ponza from Ustica, June 27, 
1980. Itavia DC-9 I-TIGI, departed from Bologna and headed to Palermo, suddenly 
disappears from the radar, plunging into the water for a mysterious reason: the bodies of 
the 81 victims are slowly recovered. Some of them come afloat, surfacing on the sea, 
many others are trapped in what remains of the plane, held prisoner at the very bottom of 
the Tyrrhenian waters. Many years later, a French company takes charge of the recovery 
of the Itavia plane, yet not much is gained from the black box. What the public does not 
know, however, is that this French company, based in Marseille, is closely linked to the 
French Secret Services. 


Bologna railway station, August 2, 1980. Just as the summer exodus is about to begin, a 
bomb explodes in an economy-class waiting room crowded by tourists of all ages: 85 
people die, and 200 are seriously injured. A country in shock immediately places the 
blame on Valerio Fioravanti and Francesca Mambro, founders of the “Nuclei Armati 
Rivoluzionari.” The married couple of neo-fascist terrorists is soon apprehended and 
subsequently tried for that and many other crimes. While assuming full responsibility for 
every other terrorist attack, Fioravanti and Mambro strenuously deny their involvement in 
the Bologna massacre. If this were true, then much would remain to be questioned of the 
activity of the Italian Secret Services, responsible for derailing official investigations 
under mysterious circumstances. 


At the intersection of these three tragic events begins my discussion of the 
encounter between ethics and cinema. And while cinema can hardly shed light 
on the darkness surrounding these mysterious episodes of our recent history, it 
may still accomplish a unique task, that of proposing daring interpretations 
through which responsibility is inevitably assigned. Questioning accountability, 
placing blame, and asking viewers to bear testimony, this specific cinema fully 
engages in that ethical discourse rooted, according to Emmanuel Lévinas and 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


286 Giancarlo Lombardi 


other philosophers, in responsibility for and towards the other. ' 


Philosophy and Cinema 

Before I embark on my analytic quest, a methodological reflection is necessary, 
which is prompted by a recent work authored by an Argentinian philosopher, 
Julio Cabrera. In Da Aristotele a Spielberg, Cabrera discusses the use of cinema 
as medium for students’ introduction to philosophy’s most nuanced concepts. In 
consonance with the opinions of pathic thinkers such as Schopenhauer, 
Nietzsche, Kierkegaard, and Heidegger, Cabrera maintains that 


Almeno alcuni aspetti fondamentali del reale (se non proprio il reale nella sua totalita) 
non vanno soltanto enunciati e articolati logicamente per essere pienamente intesi, bensi 
devono esser introdotti sensitivamente grazie alla “comprensione logopatica,” al tempo 
stesso razionale e affettiva; [...] quest’introduzione sensitiva nel discorso deve produrre 
un certo tipo di impatto in chi stabilisce un contatto con essa. E [...] grazie a questa 
introduzione sensitiva “impattante” si raggiungono verita che possono tranquillamente 
esser sostenute a spada tratta in quanto posseggono pretese di validita universale. Non 
rappresentano quindi semplici “impressioni” psicologiche ma esperienze fondamentali 
che sono un tutt’uno con l’umana condizione, cioé con /'umanita in quanto tale, e 
posseggono pertanto una diretta valenza cognitiva. Queste tre caratteristiche tipiche dei 
pensatori patici mi sembra d’altra parte che definiscano anche il linguaggio del cinema, 
visto pero da un punto di vista filosofico. 


(9) 


Because of its ability to have a direct impact on viewers, cinema succeeds 
better than literature at helping viewers to achieve a different level of 
understanding, which encompasses rational and affective realms: 


Cid che invece offre il cinema é una specie di “superpotenziamento” delle possibilita 
concettuali della letteratura, riuscendo infatti ad ampliare notevolmente I’impressione di 
realta e quindi la creazione di quell’esperienza indispensabile allo sviluppo del 
concettimmagine, con conseguente aumento dell’impatto emotivo che lo caratterizza. 
[...] Il cinema rappresenta perd la pienezza di un’esperienza viva, dal momento che 
include in esso la temporalita e il movimento tipici del mondo reale con tutte le difficolta 
annesse, anziché limitarsi a offrire tutti gli ingredienti necessari affinché lo spettatore (0 il 
lettore) li utilizzi per creare l’immagine, che esso offre gia direttamente. 


(15) 


And what is most valid, in the encounter between cinema and philosophy 
staged by Cabrera in his essay, is cinema’s intrinsic ability to manifest the 
problematic nature of philosophical thinking. True cinema, in fact, resists 
conceptual closure, defeating and defying reductionist attacks: 


' Emmanuel Lévinas discusses this issue in most of his works. For a systematic and 
thorough presentation of Lévinas’s thought, see Frangois-David Sebbah. 


Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 287 


I concettimmagine, per i problemi filosofici sfiorati, offrono soluzioni logicamente 
epistemicamente e moralmente aperte e problematiche (e a volte segnatamente amorali e 
negative, comunque mai definitivamente affermative e rassicuranti); se anche un regista 
si ponesse l’obiettivo di dare una soluzione definitiva, il linguaggio delle immagini vi si 
opporrebbe, e finirebbe per fare il film che non vorrebbe fare. [...] L’immagine 
cinematografica non pud mostrare senza render problematico, destrutturare, ricollocare, 
tirare, distorcere. 

(18; my emph.) 


Three films that tell three versions of the three dramatic episodes described 
at the inception of this essay are the films that | have chosen to analyze in order 
to stage this suggestive encounter between ethics and cinema. Of these films, | 
will question the representation of historical events, teasing out ideological 
discourses informing their way of turning history into story. And by looking at 
their narrative choices, at the /oci in which emphasis is more critically placed, | 
will attempt to identify the perlocutionary effect that these movies are meant to 
have on their audiences. How do these films stage an ethical debate? How do 
they bear witness to three of the most dramatic events in recent Italian history? 
How do they act on their viewers by shaping their experience of the narrated 
event? These questions, and others, will be raised in analyzing // muro di 
gomma (Marco Risi, 1991), Per non dimenticare (Massimo Martelli, 1992), and 
Le mani forti (Franco Bernini, 1996). 


Brescia, May 17, 1974 

A Brescia non si colpi la variegata folla presente in una stazione ferroviaria in un periodo 
di vacanze, né l’eterogenea clientela di una banca, né il microcosmo che spontaneamente 
Si costituisce in una carrozza ferroviaria o nella carlinga di un aereo di linea. In piazza 
della Loggia, all’atto dell’esplosione, era in corso una manifestazione democratica; partiti 
e sindacati avevano riunito nell’agora cittadini per protestare verso il clima di violenza 
eversiva che da tempo avvelenava la vita cittadina e che aveva chiara e indiscussa matrice 


di destra. 
(Pellegrino 102) 


Giovanni Pellegrino, head of the Commissione Stragi that has long been 
investigating the dramatic events of the anni di piombo, maintains that what 
happened in Piazza della Loggia 27 years ago, on May 17, 1974, was quite 
different from the bombing of Piazza Fontana in December 1969, the bombing 
of the Italicus five years later, that of the Bologna railway station in August 
1980, or the mysterious explosion of the Itavia airplane flying over Ustica in 
June of that same year. What differentiated these events from the one that 
occurred in Brescia was the specific targeting of a group of victims, the men and 
women who had chosen to attend a political rally in a square of a city that had 
been devastated by too many acts of violence. Terrorism, we are told, strikes 


288 Giancarlo Lombardi 


when least expected, choosing random targets out of ordinary people: it is called 
terrorism exactly because its exceeding randomness disseminates terror in entire 
populations. This is terrorism as we have come to experience it in the US, with 
the bombing of the Twin Towers and that of Oklahoma City; this is terrorism as 
Italy had come to experience it at the very end of the Sixties, and in the decade 
that followed. Not that the Red Brigades, in choosing specific targets among 
Judges, politicians, journalists, and academics, could be called anything less than 
terrorists. Indeed, they were terrorists albeit of a different type. During the most 
obscure years of its first republic, Italy was indeed ravaged by two terrorisms, 
spurred by two opposing extremist factions that had chosen to wage their civil 
war in rather different fashion. Left-wing terrorism, through the actions of the 
Red Brigades and Prima Linea, disseminated terror through systematic knee- 
cappings, abductions, and homicides, while Right-wing terrorism mostly took a 
different path, spreading fear in the entire country through a series of bombings 
that caused countless victims. 

Much has been written about the strategia della tensione, devised by the 
Secret Services during those years in order to keep the Left away from power.’ 
Most of the Right-wing bombings, in fact, were initially ascribed to anarchist or 
leftist groups so as to scare uncertain voters into casting their ballot in favor of 
the center-right. Much has been written about the influence of NATO and CIA, 
and about the operation Stay Behind, according to which most West-European 
countries were asked to organize military and paramilitary groups that would be 
mobilized should Communists ever come to power.’ Much has indeed been 
written about Gladio, the organization whose existence was finally revealed by 
Giulio Andreotti in 1991, at the same time that Aldo Moro’s last papers were 
found inside a wall in Via Montenevoso.* Those papers, authored by the 
President of the Christian Democrat Party shortly before his death, sketched 
those same revelations proffered by Andreotti.© They talked about a secret 
paramilitary organization that had been active since the fifties, an organization 
whose existence had been known only to the Secret Services and few other 
politicians and whose members identified themselves as gladiators, defenders of 
the Italian nation against the Red scare. The 622 members of Gladio had 
received extensive training on the Sardinian coast. Their training did not differ 
much from that received by other right-wing sympathizers who had formed 
infamous groups such as Ordine Nuovo, Avanguardia Nazionale, the Rosa dei 
Venti, and the Movimento di Azione Rivoluzionaria, which was said to be 
responsible for the bombing of Piazza della Loggia. What was different, 


* See De Lutiis; Fasanella, Sestieri, and Pellegrino. 

* See Sassano; Galli; Gianni and Antonio Cipriani; Faenza and Fini. 

* See Gualtieri; Anzerilli; Bettini; Flamigni. 

* Aldo Moro’s “prison” memoir, along with the letters he wrote in the same period, was 
recently published in // mio sangue ricadra su di voi. 


Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 289 


however, was that Gladio was created and directed by the Secret Services, which 
only briefly colluded, instead, with these organizations. 

My contribution to this debate, within this particular context, addresses one 
of the many fictional representations of the tragic events that made the anni di 
piombo. In the attempt to identify rhetoric and visual patterns that characterize 
the fictional reading of a historical event, I set out to define the possible 
“vantage points” offered to the reader, or better, the spectator of this particular 
visual text. 

Leaving aside history, therefore, let me now turn to fiction, to the cinematic 
portrayal of the hypothetical solution of the mystery surrounding the bombing of 
Piazza della Loggia, as powerfully depicted by Franco Bernini in Le mani forti. 
Claudia and Dario, the two protagonists, are not just a psychotherapist in 
training and her patient. Claudia is a woman who has been deeply affected by 
terrorism, her sister being one of the eight victims of the bombing in Piazza 
della Loggia, while Dario is the man of the Secret Services who actually planted 
that very bomb in 1974. Thirteen years later, he has come to Claudia in order to 
beg forgiveness. Fear for his own personal safety forces him to assume a 
disguise, that of Tancredi, a journalist who goes into therapy because he cannot 
cope with the massacres recently witnessed in Bosnia. The woman whose 
gruesome death he has witnessed, however, is not Bosnian: her eyes, her clothes, 
and her blue earrings are those of Lorenza, Claudia’s sister. Before long, 
Claudia comes to this realization and to a decision that will affect her life 
forever. Caught in a dramatic spiral of events, she becomes one of the two key 
witnesses in a trial that sees the state prosecuting itself. All this comes to be 
narrated in a most complex fashion, alternating sequences from the actual trial, 
occurred in 1998 (two years after the movie was made) with disconnected 
sequences showing the events that led up to that trial. 

Back to history for a brief moment. In November 1983, talking about the 
recruiting of former soldiers for possible acts of resistance against the victory of 
Communism, an officer of the Secret Services said that such army was needed 
“per non restare alla finestra, ma per intervenire, per sedare la situazione, 
bloccarla e poi eventualmente decidere in merito” (De Lutiis, Storia dei servizi 
segreti 119). The male protagonist of Le mani forti is one of these men, recruited 
during the military service into an organization whose strong Kafkian hierarchy 
constitutes its very power. Early in their sessions, he says to Claudia: “[...] c’é 
una sapienza nella gerarchia, questa sapienza é il vero potere, quello pit. grande 
di tutti, quello che non morira mai, io ho scelto questo tipo di lavoro per motivi 
che vanno aldila di me, dei miei problemi personali”. When this speech begins, 
the viewer has yet to be introduced into Claudia’s office. Dario’s words act as 
soundtrack to a close-up of trees shaken by a powerful storm, the noise of 
thunders being juxtaposed to his own voice. To the storm outside is juxtaposed 
the internal storm that has led Dario to Claudia, into whose office the film cuts 
immediately. As the man, always dressed in black, reiterates the motives that led 


290 Giancarlo Lombardi 


him to join his yet unmentioned “agency,” viewers are treated to both storms 
simultaneously, the trees having receded to the very background of the frame. 
They are waving under the heavy rain seen through a window, whose square 
bars already evoke a sense of imprisonment shared by both characters. Prey to 
his guilt, Dario is further imprisoned by a commitment to an organization he is 
unable to leave. Prey to her past suffering, Claudia is suffocated by a different 
duty, felt by those who survived the victims of random acts of violence only to 
bear constant remembrance of the tragedy. Furthermore, another prison for 
Claudia, in this specific context, is that established by her profession’s ethical 
code, according to which she is bound to keep her patient’s privacy. It is against 
this very code, this very ethics, that Claudia initiates her struggle. 

The trees located outside Claudia’s office were the object of a different 
portrayal, at the core of the very first establishing shot of this film. Le mani forti 
opens, in fact, on a panning crane shot of a park, on a sunny morning like many 
others. Children are playing volleyball and women with strollers are taking their 
newborns for a walk in the park just as the camera slowly pans downward, 
getting closer to a group of parents who are joined by their children. As a 
soundtrack, Dario’s voice tells the slaughter of Piazza della Loggia, and the 
horror construed by his words is powerfully juxtaposed to the joyful images 
captured in the park. Again, with a series of cuts, the camera pans up on the 
trees and into Claudia’s office, framing its windows, and slowly unveiling the 
presence of Dario and Claudia’s bodies. This powerful juxtaposition, mediated 
by the presence of a window, key element in Bernini’s film, can be seen as a 
symbolic re-staging of the scenario for a terrorist attack. Those that have come 
to be remembered as stragi di stato indeed took place most unexpectedly, there 
where Italians of all ages had come together in most natural fashion, to wait for 
a train that would take them on vacation, or to go about their ordinary business 
of the day. What could possibly give a stronger sense of innocence than a shot of 
a park on a sunny morning? On the other hand, what better place could 
conceivably hide the danger lurking in everyday life? That same park, at night, 
eventually becomes the place where the Secret Services lie spying Claudia’s 
every move. From that very park, they begin a chase scene in which they 
attempt to follow her flight towards justice, marked by her crossing of a tunnel 
at the other end of which she finds herself in a jungle of concrete, whose 
overbearing buildings represent the towering presence of that very same justice 
system that has come to try itself in a most Kafkian fashion. 

At the center of such Kafkian creation lies another therapist’s office, that of 
Claudia’s supervisor, the man who eventually betrays her to the Secret Services. 
It is when a distraught Claudia seeks his advice that we first see his office, 
located inside one of the buildings of the University of Milano. As she walks up 
a spiraling staircase, Claudia reaches a room that seems suspended in mid-air. Its 
walls made of transparent glass, the office allows Claudia’s supervisor to gain 
full vision of its surroundings, and total control of the entire student body. 





Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 291 


Virtual reenactment of Jeremy Bentham’s panopticon, theorized by Michel 
Foucault as a primary instrument of discipline and punishment that works most 
effectively because it allows unreciprocated vision, the supervisor’s office is the 
ultimate harbor of the Secret Services. Descending its ominous staircase, 
Claudia sees a series of posters that denounce that very strategy devised by the 
services: “24 anni da Piazza Fontana. Ancora una bomba’”’. 

The very betrayal of Claudia at the hands of a supervisor whom she saw as 
a father figure is a powerful mise-en-abime of a higher treason by the forces of a 
state that betrays its own citizens through the staging of terrorist attacks. 
Dissatisfaction with Italy, with a country that fails its own children, is voiced in 
the film since its inception. The viewers first meet Claudia’s husband in a scene 
where he discusses, with a group of friends, potential reasons to keep living in 
Italy. Through his words, and those of his friends, Italy is portrayed as an 
unfriendly country that needs to be abandoned, “Ma € possibile che non 
riusciamo a trovare un buon motivo per restare a vivere in Italia?” he says to his 
friends. Upon leaving his wife, he and his friends indeed organize a long trip to 
Senegal, which provides a safe repair from the Kafkian landscape that Italy 
appears to offer in this film. The same character also voices his dissatisfaction 
and fear in the scene that leads to his separation from Claudia. When the Secret 
Services barge into Claudia’s house staging a robbery in order to come into 
possession of a set of tapes containing Claudia’s sessions with Dario, her 
husband proclaims his fears for an involvement that could potentially destroy 
both of them. Begging her to dismiss her patient, and thus reenter anonymity, 
Claudia’s husband maintains that “l’unico modo per vivere in Italia € stare a 
guardare alla finestra”. Claudia, however, refuses to stay behind that window, 
that very window which recurs so pervasively throughout the entire film. Fate, at 
the hands of another emissary from the Secret Services, indeed attempts to strike 
at her just as she steps outside another window and into a balcony, that of the 
hotel in which she has agreed to meet Dario in order to talk him into 
collaborating with justice. Dario, not unlike his epic namesake Tancredi, comes 
to the rescue, and eventually agrees to testify at the trial. 

Just as much as Claudia, the director of Le mani forti cannot simply look 
from a window: his film is not just a simple representation, a display of events 
viewed from a distance. Throughout the entire film, viewers are always 
reminded of the presence of the director’s eye that commands their gaze. Fast 
camera movements, witnessed by constant panning from one object to another, 
camera angles that are often high or low, and almost never place the viewer at 
eye level with the actors, shots edited together in defiance of continuity rules, 
alternation of sequences that portray different time periods, linked through a 
subtle red line that could easily at first hide viewing: these are some of the 
elements that exemplify the “writerliness” or better, the “directorliness” of this 
film. The choices of a burning topic and of this specific interpretation of the 
events make Le mani forti even more daring. While adopting cool colors to 


292 Giancarlo Lombardi 


create an atmosphere that would indeed foster the viewers’ critical distance 
necessary for processing such political statements on the recent past, Bernini 
indeed seems to tell his viewers that, in making this film, he has made a moral 
choice, and like his female protagonist, he has chosen not to stay behind a 
window. Will viewers partake of his experience and cross the same critical 
threshold? 


Ustica, June 27, 1980 
La sera del 27 giugno — mentre proseguiva il ponte aereo americano per il Cairo, mentre 
al confine egiziano-libico erano ammassate le Forze armate dei due schieramenti in stato 
di allerta, mentre era in corso un’esercitazione aerea nelle acque del Tirreno con la 
presenza di una portaerei britannica, mentre sembrava fosse in corso anche 
un’esercitazione di forze francesi, mentre era in programma un volo Tripoli-Varsavia 
con a bordo il colonnello Gheddafi — alle ore 21 |’aereo civile “DC9” dell’ Itavia, in volo 
da Bologna a Palermo con a bordo 81 persone, venne colpito da un missile. L’aereo 
precipito in mare tra le isole di Ponza e Ustica. Due ore dopo la caduta del DC9 
dell’Itavia e la morte di 81 persone, il Sios marina e i vertici dell’Aeronautica militare 
erano gia all’opera per depistare e occultare cause e responsabilita della strage. 

(Flamigni, / fantasmi del passato 145) 


The evocative words that paint such a complex background to the Itavia 
crash belong to Sergio Flamigni, former Left Democrat Senator and member of 
the parliamentary commission investigating Aldo Moro’s death. Caught in the 
midst of an undeclared war between Libya and NATO destined to remain secret, 
the Itavia I-TIGI flight met its demise in a very mysterious fashion. Soon after 
the tragic accident occurred, radar transcripts and other documents bearing 
testimony to the event suddenly disappeared, were burned, locked away, or 
misfiled. The Italian Air Force immediately ascribed the accident to the poor 
functioning of the airplane, attempting to stave off those persistent rumors 
according to which the DC-9 had indeed been destroyed by a missile or a bomb. 
Structural decay of the Itavia plane was ruled out shortly thereafter, and the 
possibilities of internal bombing or external missile attack were juxtaposed to 
yet another theory, according to which the plane had actually fallen off the sky 
because another plane had hit it. After long investigations, this last explanation 
was recently deemed as the most plausible, and several members of the Air 
Force were subsequently indicted. 

The Ustica tragedy deeply affected the country’s perception of its own 
institutions. When it finally became clear that the highest members of the Air 
Force had intentionally withheld crucial information from the public, and it 
became obvious that no respect had been paid to the safety of civilians caught in 
a war that had been kept secret, Italians lost faith in their government, their 
representatives, and in their military force. What little trust remained was placed 
in the hands of the judge and the parliamentary commission that carried on the 
investigation amidst countless obstacles. Along with them, the voices of 


Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 293 


journalists and the victims’ relatives remained strong, as in Marco Risi’s 
cinematic rendition of these events, // muro di gomma. 

Directed by Risi eleven years after the event, // muro di gomma presents a 
strong, authorial, and authoritative reading of the Itavia crash. Daria Bonfietti, 
president of the Associazione Parenti delle Vittime di Ustica, collaborated on the 
screenplay, co-written by Sandro Petraglia, Stefano Rulli, and Andrea Purgatori. 
Investigative journalist of the Corriere della Sera, Andrea Purgatori also co- 
authored, four years later, A un passo dalla guerra. Ustica, storia di un segreto 
inconfessabile, a long essay from which it becomes clear that the protagonist of 
Risi’s film was indeed Purgatori’s cinematic alterego. Yet the term protagonist, 
in // muro di gomma, seems quite inappropriate. When thinking of a 
“protagonist,” film viewers are usually expecting a strong figure designed to 
carry the action successfully, fostering the spectators’ identification with 
someone bigger, better, and stronger than themselves. Psychoanalysis defines 
this figure the ego-ideal. Yet Rocco, played by Corso Salani, hardly fits this 
image. The protagonist of // muro di gomma is an everyman: not beautiful, not 
strong, and not, by any means, a winner. In the economy of a film that has 
elected to bear witness to institutional crisis, and to the helplessness of the 
citizens who are its victims, Rocco demonstrates Quixotic traits in his attempt to 
challenge higher powers that will inevitably withstand his attack. 

Opening on a close-up of the radar from which the DC-9 suddenly 
disappears, Risi’s film immediately cuts to a different area of the airport, the 
arrival gates where friends and relatives of the victims are anticipating an 
encounter that shall never take place. The authorities have long ascertained the 
disappearance of the flight, yet families have not been notified. Thus, through 
the initial juxtaposition of these first two sequences, the tone for the entire film 
is already set. Knowledge is power, Michel Foucault taught us, and power, in 
this particular situation, is evidenced by how such knowledge is indeed 
withdrawn from those who are more rightfully entitled to it. A dolly shot of the 
arrival terminal, panning on the impatient and anxious faces of friends and 
victims, finds as its counter-shot a close-up of the electronic display signaling 
that the flight’s arrival is now announced as indeterminato. The following 
sequence, in a different area of the same terminal, finds the same people facing a 
man who announces the disappearance of the flight: once again, the tone is set 
for the remaining part of the film, dividing its characters in two sides set against 
one another. Anger, fear, and despair color the faces of the men and women on 
the “good” side. Among them, two faces stand out, that of a middle-aged man 
who protests the lack of information, and that of a younger woman who sits in 
despair hugging her child as the airport officer reads the passengers’ list. The 
camera lingers on a powerful representation of traumatic loss, the woman’s quiet 
and composed pain being signified by hands that grip, eyes that stare, lips held 
tight together, as the names of those who have died are proffered in a solemn, 
hieratic rhythm. Portrayed by Angela Finocchiaro, a famous TV comedian of the 


294 Giancarlo Lombardi 


period, this character is unique, paradoxically, because, like Rocco, she bears no 
striking traits, she is just una donna qualunque. Finocchiaro is quite skilled at 
playing up the immense astonishment felt by someone who has just received 
such unexpected tragic news. Depressed stupefaction colors the words she utters 
in response to Rocco’s enquiry, later in the film, in the sequence set outside the 
morgue, where a few bodies have been returned right after the accident. Asked 
by the journalist about the physical condition in which these bodies lie, 
Finocchiaro responds that they are mere corpses, thereby reminding the viewers 
of those bodies’ extreme dehumanization, their reduction to mere pawns in the 
hands of higher powers who have determined their expendable nature. Right 
before that scene, with a voice ever so soft and colorless, she asks back, “Lei 
pensa di essere importante?,” making a powerful statement whose strength lies 
exactly in the helpless discoloring of that very voice. It is the affirmative answer 
provided by Rocco, slightly nuanced with skepticism evidenced by his word 
choice — “Si, credo di si” — that ideally drives the remaining part of the film, 
making these two statements pivotal elements in the director’s reading of these 
events. 

The same old man who had been complaining to airport officials earlier in 
the film reappears in this sequence. Viewers learn that he has lost several 
members of his family in the plane crash. His pain is rendered most effectively 
by a camera that pans around his face, as he looks up to the sky searching for 
answers he shall not receive. By reducing film speed at this very moment, the 
director effectively conveys to viewers the shock that lies in_ the 
acknowledgement of the extremeness of this tragedy. 

In a film that dwells most exclusively on a scenario of relentless pain, the 
few joyful exchanges portrayed on screen belong to the military world, which 
seems to be holding the key to the mysteries surrounding the Itavia crash. 
Searching for official comments to the news that a missile could have caused the 
accident, Rocco tracks down the highest officials of the Italian Air Force in a 
restaurant where they are celebrating some unknown event with families and 
friends. Viewers are ushered into a different world now, that of power and 
privilege. To the despair and sorrow of the relatives of the victims, just 
portrayed interacting with an insurance agent who has reduced to (minimal) 
figures the lives of their dead beloved, the director juxtaposes the loud 
cheerfulness of these other wives and children, who clap their hands following 
the rhythm of a song belted out by a high officer of the Air Force. Following a 
rhythm in the same way they would follow orders, these people hum to the notes 
of Nessun dorma, from Giacomo Puccini’s Turandot. The tale of a Princess who 
kills her suitors because they fail to solve the riddles she set for them, Turandot 
and specifically Nessun dorma are superbly woven into the intricate texture of // 
muro di gomma. Towering over his guests, the high officer sings: “Ma il mio 
mistero é chiuso in me, il nome suvo nessun sapra! No, no, sulla tua bocca lo 
dird, quando la luce splendera! Ed il mio bacio sciogliera il silenzio che ti fa 





Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 295 


mia! Dilegua o notte! Tramontate, stelle! Tramontate, stelle! All’alba vincero! 
Vincero! Vincero!” He is not entirely faithful to the original lyrics of the aria. 
Not only is he portrayed eliding the first stanza of the aria, a stanza which sets 
the aria’s background mentioning Turandot and thus the romantic content of the 
entire piece, but he is also shown replacing the possessive adjective in the 
second verse, from nome mio to nome suo. What was originally meant to be 
hidden, in the aria, was the name of the person singing it, while in this context 
what comes to be silenced is the name of the mystery itself. Holding the keys to 
what happened in the sky around Ustica, this officer symbolically declares his 
intention not to reveal anything, and his firm belief in a victory that the last three 
verses of the aria, emphasized in a crescendo cheered by the entire banquet 
party, inevitably predict. Rocco witnesses this scene from a distance. In order to 
come closer to the table, he has to overcome a series of obstacles, powerfully 
signified by a camera that moves around the restaurant in jerky movements, as if 
being handheld, taking sharp corners, moving under half-closed doors, zooming 
in and out. 

Each time that Rocco has a brush with power and the truth it withholds, 
Risi’s camera is there to remind us of the presence of obstacles and of the 
ominous magnitude of this very power. The frequent use of bird’s-eye-view 
shots, coupled with the directorial preference for high and low angle shots to 
shots that align viewers and objects represented, act as powerful reminders of 
this uneven encounter. Whether signifying the presence of a mysterious and 
silent observer or reasserting Rocco’s Lilliputian size vis-a-vis the Italian Air 
Force and its entire establishment, these shots are meant to disturb viewers, 
shaking them from the hypnotic effect that conventional cinema rules may have. 
That same hypnotic effect can be indeed translated outside the darkness of the 
movie theater and into our society, where many of us have been coopted into 
believing that our institutions are always working on our behalf. Shaking its 
viewers out of their stupor, Risi’s film is indeed demonstrating its coscienza 
civile not through words, but through shots, through cinematic language. Two 
sequences, in particular, demonstrate the disproportion between Rocco and the 
giants against which he has waged war. The first sequence finds him in a 
museum, where he meets with an informant to discuss the nature of a cryptic 
document he has recently received. The features of the two characters stand out 
rather sharply against the whiteness of the walls of the museum and of the long 
bench on which both characters sit to look at what turns out to be the original 
radar transcript of the DC-9. The ethereal yet majestic surroundings, in their 
neo-classical nature, remind viewers of the white governmental anticamera in 
Bernardo Bertolucci’s Conformista, where the protagonist is waiting to be given 
his next assignment, or another scene in the same film, in which the same 
character, played by Jean Paul Trintignant, visits his father in an insane asylum 
conspicuous for its uniform whiteness. In both films, whiteness comes to 
represent the very opposite of the innocence it usually connotes, acting as 


296 Giancarlo Lombardi 


background to a world of mysteries, betrayal, and extreme injustice. What is 
most striking about this particular scene, in Risi’s film, is the way in which the 
museum’s columns, extreme in their width and height, mark the path taken by 
the two characters during the last part of their conversation. Just as the informant 
is alerting Rocco to the risks he is taking by writing articles found deeply 
disturbing by the state authorities, the two men walk around the columns as if 
they were eliding obstacles in a skiing competition. The same contrast in height 
and size is reaffirmed later in the film when Rocco meets again his informant, 
this time in Paris. By now, the journalist seems to have genuinely accepted 
failure, and his informant seems quite pleased with his attitude. As they walk 
through the streets of Paris, the informant claims the impossibility of ever 
arriving at the truth: “In questo gioco vince chi da le carte... Come si fa a 
chiedere la verita a quelli che sanno?... La gente non deve sapere... A che serve 
dire la verita alla gente? A creare confusione, sfiducia nelle istituzioni.” Firm in 
his discouragement of Rocco’s investigation, the informant continues talking to 
himself as he leaves the journalist behind. Far away from a camera that moves 
upward to a bird’s-eye-view of Salvator Dali’s fountain at Beaubourg, a 
monument that celebrates the convolutions of the present world, the man 
screams his last ironical warnings to Rocco: “Faccia il suo mestiere, si informi, 
vedra che sorprese.” He then turns to Paris, stage of mysteries, betrayals, and 
state treason for centuries, yelling “Che grande citta.” 

At the very end of the film, viewers find Rocco attending the trial in which 
the state is finally prosecuting itself, knowing quite well that not much will 
come out of it. Just as the Capo di Stato Maggiore exits the room in which he 
was just interrogated by the Commissione Stragi, a room in which he 
unsuccessfully attempted to blame journalists for building up a case against the 
Italian Air Force, Rocco comes near him and asks him repeatedly, “Chi mi ha 
pagato, voglio sapere chi mi ha pagato, chi paga noi giornalisti!” The Air Force 
Chief remains silent, erecting the same muro di gomma so forcefully built 
around the events occurred in Ustica on the night of June 27, 1980. Questions of 
responsibility are thus raised and rebuked, seemingly in vain. The movie ends as 
Rocco, in a phone booth, is dictating an article for the journal. Outside, it rains, 
yet his face is not wet with rain, but tears. Satisfaction mixed with 
disillusionment, with the certainty that much, after all, will not change, informs 
his piece, whose creating process we are invited to witness. Words and entire 
lines are inserted, then removed, as the camera alternates extreme close-ups of 
his face, where tears stream down to his chin, with images of the very presses 
from which the newspaper eventually sees the light, bearing the title, “Ustica, 
vergogna di stato”: 


“Ci sono voluti 10 anni, 10 anni di bugie, 10 anni di perché senza risposte. Perché chi 
sapeva € stato zitto? Perché chi poteva scoprire non s’é mosso? Perché questa verita era 
cosi inconfessabile da richiedere il silenzio, l’omerta, l’occultamento delle prove? C’era 


Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 297 


la guerra quella notte del 27 giugno 1980: c’erano 69 adulti e 12 bambini che tornavano a 
casa, che andavano in vacanza, che leggevano il giornale 0 giocavano con una bambola. 
Quelli che sapevano hanno deciso che i cittadini, la gente, noi non dovevamo sapere: 
hanno manomesso le registrazioni, cancellato i tracciati radar, bruciato i registri, hanno 
inventato registrazioni che non sono mai avvenute, e poi, hanno fatto la cosa piu grave di 
tutte: hanno costretto i deboli a partecipare alla menzogna, trasformando onesta in vilta, 
la difesa disperata del piccolo privilegio del posto di lavoro,” no cancella, “in mediocrita, 
in bassezza. Ora, finalmente, mentre fuori da questo palazzo, dove lo stato interroga lo 
stato, piove, a molti sembra di vedere un po’ di sole.” No, non mi piacciono queste due 
righe, cancella. Metti solo: “Perché”? 


The dissatisfaction evidenced by the removal of the only two positive lines, 
because an article on Ustica could never end with such a phrase as “un po’ di 
sole,” is further proved by the decision to deny any credibility to the reasons 
adduced by those who justified their lies with the fear of losing their jobs. To 
them, and to all the other people involved in the cover-up of this tragic event, 
only mediocrity can be ascribed, mediocrity and bassezza that have only brought 
shame on an entire country. 


Bologna, August 2, 1980 
Vent’anni fa, dieci e venticinque, 2 agosto, Stazione di Bologna. Caldo e sudore. C’é un 
paese in vacanza, che prende treni e fa code per spostarsi dalle citta, laggit fino al mare. 
2 agosto. Caldo, fumo di sigarette e odore di fatica. Si prende il biglietto alla stazione e si 
aspettano, sotto la pensilina, altri treni in partenza e nuovi arrivi. Gente felice che si 
incontra, bambini che giocano, famiglie. L’altoparlante annuncia ritardi. Dieci e 
venticinque. Poi c’é il silenzio irreale, la morte improvvisa, lo scoppio, il boato di una 
forte esplosione. 

(Biacchesi 11) 


Placed in a suitcase left in the waiting room of the railway station, the bomb 
claimed the life of 85 people only a month after Ustica shook the entire 
population to its roots. 1980 will always be remembered as the year of the 
stragi, of mysteries whose solution has always been tentative. After the potential 
explosion of the central heater was ruled out, it became clear that Bologna had 
indeed fallen victim to another terrorist attack, the one that, to this very day, has 
caused the highest number of victims in the history of Italy. While right-wing 
terrorists were immediately held suspects for this massacre, the Secret Services, 
following directions from Masonic Chief Licio Gelli,’ attempted to derail the 
investigations disseminating false evidence that would lead to foreign terrorist 
groups. By the end of August of that same year, however, several neo-fascist 
terrorists were indicted, and most of them were immediately apprehended: their 
leaders, Valerio Fioravanti and Francesca Mambro, were taken into custody 


© For a detailed discussion of Licio Gelli, the Masonic Order, and P2, see Alberto Cecchi; 
Michele Gambino; Sergio Flamigni, 7rame atlantiche. 


298 Giancarlo Lombardi 


during the year that followed. 

Founders of the Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari, Fioravanti and Mambro had 
already made a name for themselves by murdering a number of people, chief 
among them judge Mario Amato, head of the investigation on neo-fascist 
terrorist organizations for a number of years. Of the 5,000 people imprisoned for 
terrorism during the past thirty years, Francesca Mambro is the woman who has 
collected the highest number of sentences of life imprisonment. She has actually 
been sentenced to life imprisonment for twelve different homicides, while her 
husband Valerio Fioravanti, once a child actor in Italian TV, follows right 
behind with eight similar sentences. After almost twenty years of imprisonment, 
Mambro and Fioravanti have been recently moved to a half-way house: during 
the day, they work for a non-profit organization, while at night they return to 
their cells. To this very day, more than twenty years after the bombing, they 
strenuously deny their participation in the event, which they claim was not 
compatible with their previous terrorist activity. While taking full responsibility 
for all the other crimes committed, always directed towards a specific target, be 
it a policeman, a judge or a militant communist, Mambro and Fioravanti 
maintain that they could have never disseminated the kind of indiscriminate 
terror unleashed by the Bologna bombing. 

Much journalistic writing has been dedicated to their case since their first 
imprisonment. They have authored three books and a play during the past five 
years, and the echo of their voices has often overshadowed the lament of those 
who have suffered the most, the relatives of the many people killed on that torrid 
summer day. For these people, who still believe that much has yet to be unveiled 
on this tragedy, the news that Mambro and Fioravanti had been put in semi- 
liberty was more than shock. It was an insult, an insult to the memory of the men 
and women these two terrorists had supposedly killed. 


Un treno ripercorre la pianura padana. Con quel dolore lontano, molti hanno imparato a 
convivere. Le amicizie perdute, i figli ridotti a polvere, ricordi di padri e madri, e gente 
incontrata per caso, mentre l’orrore bruciava tutti gli attimi vissuti. Dall’estate dell’80, il 
2 agosto lasciano la loro vita e vanno a Bologna. Vogliono vivere il ricordo davanti a 
quella lapide, deposta sulla facciata esterna della sala d’aspetto. Prendono quel treno. 
Sentono che quel dolore non é stato spento, forse per qualcuno si € anche affievolito ma 
la consapevolezza é rimasta. Intatta negli anni. Quella di non voler mai dimenticare. 
Hanno bussato alla porta di magistrati, di politici. Hanno visto sfilare i generali dei 
servizi segreti con i loro “non ricordo,” “non so”. Hanno preso treni per Roma, con la 
speranza che il Parlamento e lo Stato si accorgesse di loro. E sono tornati nelle case di 


sempre con tante promesse e nessuna certezza. Soli. 
(Biacchesi 41) 


On one of those trains described by Daniele Biacchesi in this passage, with 
that same pain in his heart, and the same desire to pay respect to the memory of 
the 85 victims, rides the protagonist of Per non dimenticare, the short film 


Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 299 


directed by Massimo Martelli and co-produced by RAI, the city of Bologna, as 
well as its region, Emilia-Romagna. 

Heading a cast of stars who have graciously appeared in significant cameo 
roles, Giuseppe Cederna plays the nameless survivor of the massacre, a man 
who escaped the bombing simply because he had left the waiting room shortly 
before its explosion in order to buy a pack of cigarettes. “Io c’ero”, he says 
repeatedly in a voice-over that accompanies the 45-minute film, during which 
viewers are shown a tranche de vie, the ordinary events that took place during 
the very last minutes in the life of the ordinary people who died that August 2, 
1980. And it is no accident that a handful of famous actors and actresses have 
lent their voices and their faces to this singular narration. Their ability to act in 
the lowest possible key is pivotal in the recreation of a very realistic universe 
that is meant to remain, in its extreme simplicity, in the minds of viewers long 
after they have first seen it. 

Husband and wife fight over their in-laws. Two friends try to convince a 
third one to join them on a trip to Riccione, land of sexual perdition. Two old 
lovers re-unite and discuss the impossibility of ever living together. A middle- 
aged man argues with his old mother, who will spend the entire summer with 
him at the beach. A drug addict makes a pass at two soldiers and a priest, trying 
to come up with money she desperately needs. These and many more are the 
stories chosen by Martelli for his film: the narrator acts as their silent witness, 
moving from the waiting room to the bar, and then to the terminal, areas which 
will all be devastated by the explosion. The same distance separates him from 
the men and women he encounters, a distance signified by the full or medium 
shots used by Martelli, who limits the use of close-ups only to the narrator, as if 
to invite viewers into his head, his reflections, his trauma. 

The images portraying the men and women whose lives would tragically 
end at 10:25 a.m. that day are constantly alternated. Viewers are treated to 
different stories that proceed at the same, fast pace, and the shots depicting them 
are interspersed with the same insert, that of the Italian landscape seen from a 
train window, from which the narrator is looking outside while looking inside 
himself, into his memories. The alternating of the many different stories actually 
follows a pace that is virtually fast as a train. Events happen fast, they follow 
one another at a rhythm that cannot be stopped, and, equally, their protagonists’ 
unconscious march towards death cannot be arrested. This march towards death 
is, in the eyes of the survivor who is left to witness and remember it as 
Coleridge’s Ancient Mariner, inevitable in its endless recurrence. 

At the center of this measured portrayal of the momentous beauty of 
ordinary life, a beauty that can only be acknowledged once it is forever 
destroyed, lies another portrayal, which acts as mise-en-abime of the entire film. 
In the waiting room, a young man sees a beautiful woman and lets his eyes 
follow her every movement. The woman eventually sits on a bench across from 
him: their eyes do not meet, her eyes are wandering away, lost in contemplation 


300 Giancarlo Lombardi 


of undetermined thoughts. Suddenly, a dream is shattered: the woman is not 
alone, she is not available. A man holding a child goes up to her, and asks her to 
hold the baby. Their relation is never determined, yet we are left to believe that 
the child might be theirs. Our young man reacts back: he pulls out a sketch pad, 
and starts drawing frenetically. Once he is done, he stands up, places at her feet 
the page on which he has drawn her beautiful face, then he leaves the room. As 
she looks down to pick up the picture, and then looks at him, he stops, turns 
around, and their eyes finally lock: his face breaks into a timid smile as he turns 
again and walks away. Shortly before the portrait is done, however, the young 
painter engages in a small conversation with another man sitting next to him. 
Common appreciation of the woman’s looks leads the painter to discuss the 
nature of a face and of the tales it may hide: “E incredibile: le persone, da una 
parte ci sono i volti, dall’altra le loro storie, non c’é mai rapporto, uno si diverte 
a indovinarne le vite, scoprirne il carattere, ma € impossibile. Quell’uomo chi é? 
I] marito o un parente?” Faces are opaque: they hide stories that can be imagined 
but not be ascertained, yet each one of us is naturally bound to draw 
conclusions, make a film in one’s own head about the lives of the many people 
one casually encounters each day. Like the young man in this sequence, the 
director has chosen to sketch a number of faces, portray a number of characters, 
granting us only few details: the same details granted to a person who would 
encounter them accidentally. Out of the few exchanges overheard by the 
narrator, who is our only vantage point in this film, out of the few images seen 
by and through his eyes, viewers are then left to weave stories. These stories are 
tales witnessed from a distance: that of the time that separates us viewers from 
the event, and from the physical distance experienced by the narrator, survivor 
and unlikely flaneur in a world that is about to collapse. From this distance, 
viewers are asked to bear indirect testimony to an event that shattered far too 
many lives, an event whose immensity was so atrocious that it could not even be 
portrayed. The film ends as the clock, in the waiting room, reaches 10:25 a.m., 
and the only noise left is that of cutlery shaking on a table in the coffee shop 
adjacent to the waiting room, simply because a man hit the legs of this small 
table. The quiet before the storm, the very last moment of composure, is where 
Martelli decides to end his narration, choosing to spare viewers from the 
obscenity and the disarray that follow the explosion. The viewers shall not 
witness such an event because, by witnessing it, we would cross the threshold 
signified by that distance from which each story and each character were shown. 
Crossing that threshold would imply forfeiting the discretion and the respect 
with which the director has chosen to treat such delicate subject matter. To 
witness the discomposure of the bodies shaken and disparaged by the explosion 
would indeed be inappropriate and, in its own particular way, obscene. One last 
sequence closes Martelli’s film, a close-up of the monument erected to the 
victims, accompanied by an extreme close-up of a series of figures. These 
figures, placed next to the name of each victim, are there to remind the world at 


Terrorism, Truth, and the Secret Service: Questions of Accountability 301 


what age each one of the 85 people met its untimely demise. 

Like the eight people who died in Brescia, the eighty-one passengers of the 
Itavia flight and the many other victims of the stragi from Piazza Fontana, Gioia 
Tauro, Peteano and many other places, Bologna’s eighty-five victims are forever 
to be inscribed in the minds of those who are left and those who are still 
searching for a truth far too difficult and obscene to be told. Ethics teaches us 
not only to think about the other but also to act on behalf of the other, while 
prompting us to seek and question accountability. 


Vent’anni dopo, chi si ricordera di loro, invisibili vittime della strategia della tensione? 
Eppure quelle storie sono ancora scritte, nella storia e nella memoria. E come se 
parlassero, quelle vittime che hanno un nome. II loro é un canto corale, collettivo. Un 
unico grande grido di rabbia. 

(Biacchesi 41-42) 


What Biacchesi writes about Bologna could easily apply to other stragi 
discussed in this article and to the ethical debate raised by the three movies that 
portray them, opting for different portrayals that still remain, however, equally 
forceful. All three movies, in fact, virtually join in the canto corale described by 
Biacchesi, giving shape to new memories, new forms of remembrance of the 
most traumatic period experienced by Italy in its national history. /nchiesta, 
memoria, and denuncia are thus equally inscribed in these cinematic texts, 
where politics and poetry merge inextricably, and disdain and remembrance 
become opposite sides of the very same coin. 


The College of Staten Island / CUNY 


302 Giancarlo Lombardi 


Works cited 


Anzerilli, Paolo. Gladio. La verita negata. Roma: Analisi, 1995. 
Bernini, Franco, dir. Le mani forti. 1996. 
Bettini, Emanuele. G/adio. Roma: Ediesse, 1996. 
Biacchesi, Daniele. /0.25, cronaca di una strage. Roma: Gamberetti, 2000. 
Cabrera, Julio. Da Aristotele a Spielberg. Capire la filosofia attraverso i film. Milano: 
Mondadori, 2000. 
Cecchi, Alberto. Storia della P2. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1985. 
Cipriani, Gianni and Antonio. Sovranita limitata. Roma: Edizioni Associate, 1991. 
De Lutiis, Giuseppe. // lato oscuro del potere. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1996, 
. Storia dei servizi segreti in Italia. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1998. 
Faenza, Roberto, and Marco Fini. Gli americani in Italia. Milanoo: Feltrinelli, 1992. 
Fasanella, Giovanni, Claudio Sestieri, and Giovanni Pellegrino. Segreto di stato. Torino: 
Einaudi, 2000. 
Flamigni, Sergio. Trame atlantiche. Milano: Kaos, 1996. 
. | giorni del passato. La carriera politica di Francesco Cossiga. Milano: Kaos, 
2001. 
Galli, Giorgio. Affari di stato. L'Italia sotterranea 1943-1990. Milano: Kaos, 1991. 
Gambino, Michele. La /oggia P2. Roma: Avvenimenti, 1992. 
Gualtieri, Libero. Operazione Gladio. | segreti del Sid parallelo. Roma: Avvenimenti, 
1991. 
Lévinas, Emmanuel. 7otalité et Infini. Paris: Livre de poche, 1961 
. Autrement qu 'étre ou au-dela de |'essence. Paris: Livre de poche, 1974. 
. Difficile liberté. Paris: Albin Michel, 1976. 
. Ethique et Infini. Paris: Fayard, 1982. 
. Entre nous. Essais sur le penser-a-l'autre. Paris: Grasset, 1991. 
. Liberté et commandement. Montpellier: Fata Morgana, 1994. 
Lucca, Daria, Paolo Miggiano, and Andrea Purgatori. A wn passo dalla guerra. Ustica, 
storia di un segreto inconfessabile. Milano: Sperling & Kupfer, 1995. 
Martelli, Massimo, dir. Per non dimenticare. 1992. 
Moro, Aldo. // mio sangue ricadra su di voi. Ed. Sergio Flamigni. Milano: Kaos, 1997. 
Pellegrino, Giovanni with Giovanni Fasanella and Claudio Sestieri. Segreto di stato. 
Torino: Einaudi, 2000. 
Risi, Marco, dir. // muro di gomma. 1991. 
Sassano, Marco. Sid e partito americano. Venezia: Marsilio, 1975. 
Sebbah, Frangois-David. Lévinas. Ambiguité de | ‘altérité. Paris: Les belles lettres, 2000. 





Eugene TeSelle 


pugaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: 
A Retrospective Analysis 


We are familiar with “academics” and “professionals” and “experts” of many 
kinds. Usually they are not controversial, and in fact they rank fairly high on the 
ladder of social prestige. Educated people often take part in public life as 
employees of (or volunteers with) government, advising those who shape public 
policy, or engaging in planning and what past generations called “social 
engineering.” 

Such persons become an identifiable social group, labeled “intellectuals” to 
indicate their specific difference, when they intervene in public affairs as critics 
or advocates; then both they and their actions can become highly controversial. 
The term “intelligentsia” became current in Russian in the middle of the 
nineteenth century, and “intellectuals” during the Dreyfus affair. (Clemenceau 
used it as a term of reproach, but it was appropriated as a badge of honor in the 
“Manifeste des intellectuels,”’ published the day after Zola’s ‘\/J’accuse” in 
January of 1898). André Malraux popularized the expression “engaged 
intellectuals,” which he applied to those who acted, not merely commented, on 
the political scene. 

In the U.S. we often hear about “public intellectuals,” a group that consists 
largely of those who used to be called “men of letters,” writing for “journals of 
opinion” or publishing books commenting on the current scene in culture, 
society, and politics, earning their income primarily from writing (and often 
lecturing, too) as a full-time activity. They are, then, “free-floating intellectuals” 
or, in economic terms, “independent intellectuals”; unfriendly right-wing critics 
have now taken to calling them “the chattering classes.” In addition, we should 
not forget the novelists, dramatists and poets, painters and composers who so 
often shape, or express, expose, or challenge the spirit of their times, not 
excluding public policy. 

A different group of intellectuals, those who make their living in other ways 
but intervene in public life on an occasional basis, is especially interesting. 
Cumulatively they provide a number of “test cases” inviting inquiry as to why, 
and on what occasions, they emerge from their libraries, laboratories, and 
classrooms. Most often they are humanists and social scientists, and there are 
expressions of surprise when scientists like Andrei Sakharov in the U.S.S.R., 
Fang Lizhi in the People’s Republic of China, and Noam Chomsky in the U.S. 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


304 Eugene TeSelle 


intervene vocally in public affairs. Their field of specialization seems less 
important than the role they find themselves able to play in attacking injustices 
and championing human rights. It is an old tradition. Bartolomé de las Casas, 
Milton, and Voltaire were precursors of those who defended Dreyfus, Sacco and 
Vanzetti, victims of the Red Scare, and “dissidents” in the Soviet bloc. 

Being an engaged intellectual can be dangerous. Some have been killed, 
either for challenging those in power or for having been too closely associated 
with those who held power and lost it. Federico Garcia Lorca was executed by a 
pro-Franco death squad in 1936, Giovanni Gentile by Italian partisans in 1944; 
Pablo Neruda died while awaiting medical care after Pinochet’s coup in 1973. 
Some have languished for years in the prisons of the Soviet Union, Cuba, 
Indonesia, Myanmar, and Turkey. The campaigns of Amnesty International and 
PEN are often devoted to securing the release of intellectuals through the 
pressure of public opinion. A fatwa was proclaimed against Salman Rushdie. 
Oscar Romero was made archbishop of San Salvador because he seemed to be a 
harmless intellectual; then his experiences as a pastor led him to speak out so 
firmly and with such consistency that he had to be assassinated. The execution- 
style killing in El Salvador of six Jesuit professors, their housekeeper, and her 
daughter in 1989 was especially symbolic, their brains being carved out to 
convey a message about what happens to the “intellectual authors” of subversive 
ideas. 

Why should intellectuals think their comments are worthy of public 
attention, and why should the public take them seriously?! What is most obvious, 
of course, is that they are educated at a higher level than most around them — in 
many communities the intellectual may be the schoolteacher, the priest, the 
newspaper editor, or the physician — and thus are presumed to be able to 
comment on public affairs with more expertise or insight than others. In addition 
they are expected to rise above the narrow self-interest of their profession or the 
group that pays them. Even when they operate on the basis of conventional 
values, it is assumed that they have a steadier and more comprehensive view of 
the situation and will not be swayed by passion or interest alone. As Lasch has 
put it, the intellectual is 


a person whose relationship to society is defined, both in his eyes and in the eyes of the 

society, principally by his presumed capacity to comment upon it with greater detachment 

than those more directly caught up in the practical business of production and power. 
(1965, ix) 


Especially in the modern world — and this, in fact, is one of the defining 
features of “modern” — intellectuals have become increasingly independent, 


' For varied and inclusive discussions of intellectuals and their roles, see Huszar, 
Maclean, Fink, Jennings and Kemp-Welch, and Donatich. 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 305 


filling the role played in more traditional societies by seers, prophets, bishops, 
and theologians. While some continue to be supported by traditional institutions, 
especially the university, church, or government, many of them are free-lance 
intellectuals, supported by the new market for newspapers, books, and 
periodicals, and public speakers and “talking heads” on television programs. 
Gouldner suggests that modern intellectuals have created a distinctive kind of 
reflexive and critical discourse, what he calls “edited speech” (28-30, 58-60, 83- 
85). The public role of intellectuals is powerful because of increasing literacy 
and the broadening of participation in public affairs, not only through elections 
but through many other ways of influencing the formation of policy, ranging 
from the institutions of civil society to public opinion polls and protest 
demonstrations. 


Intellectuals in Twentieth-Century America 

Intellectuals have played many public roles through the centuries, sometimes as 
advisers to rulers, sometimes as critics (one thinks especially of the 
Enlightenment). The stakes were raised with the French Revolution of 1789, 
which began an epoch of social and political upheaval in which intellectuals 
often played a major role. There are some who see the symbolic end of that 
epoch exactly two hundred years later, with the collapse of Soviet power and the 
emergence of the U.S. as world hegemon in 1989. 

Since the situation is different in every country, even in Europe, I intend to 
concentrate on the United States, where the relationship of intellectuals to 
economic and political life has been more problematical than elsewhere and has 
been analyzed repeatedly, with varying emphases. Grand theories, even those of 
deconstruction, tend to reflect the situations of their time. Therefore I shall begin 
with historical description and move cautiously toward attempts at 
generalization. Having a life span that now approaches seventy years, | have 
been impacted by the writings of many of the players. | know how attractive they 
could be, and I also know how many mistakes they — and I, in following them 
to some degree or other — were able to make (see the autobiographical 
reflections in the Appendix). 

Two periods are generally viewed as the glory days of intellectual influence 
in public life: the Progressive era, roughly 1890 to 1920, and the New Deal and 
its sequels, 1933 to 1968. Much was accomplished in the legislative realm in 
those periods, and yet many difficulties were encountered and many 
compromises were made. 

In a recent book, Judis defends the role of public-spirited “elites” in U.S. 
history, especially during the Progressive era and the New Deal. A hundred years 
ago, labor and populist dissent made the problems of an industrial society 
unavoidable. Many people, of course, wanted economic revolution. The 
“progressive elites” (including many people in the business community) 
persuaded legislators to achieve at least some of their goals. Labor laws, food 


306 Eugene TeSelle 


and drug regulation, and a graduated income tax were achieved. Large 
corporations began to be regulated by government, usually under terms that 
enabled the corporations to participate in, perhaps even to guide, the regulatory 
process. Since that time the progressive view has been that government must 
solve problems, the conservative view has been that government is the problem. 

Religion also played an important public role during these periods, 
prompting and then legitimating the progressive agenda.” There was a broad 
consensus that society ought to be transformed in accordance with the message 
of the prophets, Jesus, and the early church. It was a “soft” progressivism, of 
course, not only because of its religious posture but because the social location 
of progressive Christianity was the professional-managerial middle class, 
persons who inevitably felt that they were called to resolve the problems of 
society using their own expertise. 

Evaluations of the Progressive Era, the New Deal, and the Great Society 
vary widely. There are a few who think that federal legislation veered far to the 
left, largely as a result of the activities of intellectuals. Milton and Rose 
Friedman, publicists for the “free market,” see in Fabian socialism and New Deal 
liberalism a tide of opinion that swept past all obstacles for a number of decades 
(284), and they place the primary blame upon college professors. (They could 
mention Protestant ministers, too, who were widely influenced by the social 
gospel, and Catholic priests, who were following the papal social encyclicals.) 
“In our opinion,” they say, “the Socialist party was the most influential political 
party in the United States in the first decades of the twentieth century” (286-86). 
Because it had only limited electoral success, they reason, it could afford to be 
“a party of principle,” while the major parties had to avoid extremism and seek 
the middle ground. And yet many planks in the Socialist Party’s 1928 platform, 
the Friedmans complain, have since become law: flood relief, electric power, 
unemployment insurance, public works, health and accident insurance, old age 
pensions, child labor laws, and heavier taxes on the wealthy (311-12). 

Others, in far larger numbers, argue that the influence of “progressive elites” 
in these periods was a constructive one, making much-needed changes and, in 
the process, saving a capitalist economy. Some suggest that the role of “old 
money” and of the professional classes is far preferable to the dogmatic 
advocacy of the “free market” that is often found among small businessmen, the 
nouveaux riches, and the upwardly mobile. (In the U.S. in 2001 we have heard 
billionaires oppose abolition of the estate tax, taking seriously the ideology of 
“equal opportunity.”) One result is that the business community, especially its 


> Crunden shows how the Progressive ethos grew out of the spirit of “Trinitarian New 
England.” Dorrien and McCarraher offer comprehensive and thoughtful surveys of 
Christian critiques of U.S. society up to the present, considering Catholic as well as 
Protestant thinkers and activists. For a careful examination of one of the leading 
periodicals, see Hulsether. 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 307 


most elitist and internationalist segments, has maintained influence upon the 
Democratic Party and the formation of public policy. 

Even at their best, the role of the intellectual elites during the Progressive 
and New Deal eras was limited by class and race. While they defended the rights 
of labor, their links with labor were rather tenuous, usually mediated by the 
Socialist Party which included both occupational groups. While there was much 
concern about race relations, and especially about lynching and 
disenfranchisement in the South, progressives were not closely associated with 
W.E.B. DuBois, certainly a major “organic intellectual” and a precursor of the 
creative new group of African-Americans in our own time, mostly academics, 
whom some have celebrated as the only “public intellectuals” worthy of the 
name during the Nineties (Boynton 53-54). 

There has always been suspicion that the role of elites was not merely to 
negotiate between populist movements and those in power, but to co-opt and 
moderate the campaigns of those who sought more fundamental changes in 
society. (In answer, of course, it could be said that such changes might not have 
occurred at all if they had not been framed in more widely acceptable terms; “the 
art of the possible” will always be haunted by such uncertainties.) At the level of 
political philosophy, there are some who say that the state’s role is to assert the 
common good against the claims of interest groups; but the result may turn out to 
be little better than “corporatism,” the attempt to gain harmony among social 
classes rather than diminish differentiations of class and power. But what, in the 
absence of full-scale revolution, is the alternative? Only the continuation of 
dissent and struggle, strike and boycott, propaganda and political action, all 
leading to both advances and setbacks as the general economic and political 
environment shifts. 

An even more interesting critique of progressivism looks not at the political 
gains that it made but at the cultural factors that inspired it. In fact, a “cultural 
revolution” directed against much that progressivism represented began almost 
as soon as it was born. Progressivism was an outgrowth of middle-class 
moralism, even Puritanism, with an element of “uplift” that involved a 
considerable degree of social control of what the previous generation had called 
“the dangerous classes.” The radicals and bohemians who flourished after the 
turn of the century saw this feature of progressivism and expressly criticized it. 
Lasch, taking seriously the radicals’ sense of disillusionment and their awareness 
of cultural and psychological factors, devoted much of his career to examining 
their writings and their actions, scrutinizing them in the manner of a 
psychologist. He suspected that their brand of radicalism was motivated in large 
part by psychological factors: rebellion against parents who had already been too 
permissive; disillusionment about a middle-class culture that had no place for 
critical thinking and high culture; contempt for not only the middle classes but 
also the working classes; a shift from political to cultural and even psychological 
emphases; a kind of “hard-boiled realism” that has expressed itself variously in 


308 Eugene TeSelle 


cultural criticism, political radicalism, or in Cold War or neo-conservative 
politics; and in the end, most pitiably, withdrawal into alternative institutions 
where one need not encounter the masses at all. 

In the U.S. the spirit of democratic populism and commercial boosterism 
has often been hostile to intellectual activity, which has then had to find its 
“social carriers” in limited, often embattled groups. In the worst of times it found 
shelter in the “genteel tradition” of the upper classes and their elite colleges. 
Then it was able, after 1890, to gain access to the popular press and influence the 
middle class, especially its professionals. After 1910 it generated a small but 
relatively independent class of its own (Hofstadter 393-432). Several historians 
have suggested that this new group of public intellectuals was made possible by 
the growth of a critical mass of “bohemians” early in the century and again 
during the Fifties and Sixties. New York’s Greenwich Village, and college towns 
around the country, attracted enough bohemians and radicals, they argue, to 
support each other’s journalistic ventures and have an impact on local life 
(Jacoby 27-53; Biel 85-98). It is not that the universities themselves were 
especially tolerant of new ideas; the troubles of Richard Ely, Thorstein Veblen, 
Scott Nearing, and many other public intellectuals indicate how authoritarian 
even the best universities could be. These free-floating or independent 
intellectuals lived on their margins, but they flourished in the atmosphere they 
stimulated. 

It may be that the artists of the time, especially the six or eight who were 
called in retrospect “the Ashcan School,” were freest and most wide-ranging, 
perhaps because of the non-verbal suggestiveness of visual art. They sold 
illustrations to the middle-class magazines of the time, and yet several of them 
were Socialists and contributed cartoons to The Masses. Their art can be 
variously characterized as realism, or stylistic innovation, or Whitmanesque 
evocation of the variety and vitality of urban life (especially in its public spaces), 
as a celebration of working people and popular entertainers, as satire on the 
upper classes, and as implied criticism of the economic causes of the urban 
geography they depict (Zurier 85-189). 


Problematizing the Intellectuals, Issue #1. 

The phenomenon of “cultural revolution” seems to confirm a classic criticism of 
intellectuals. They are often assumed to belong to the “ivory tower” or the 
dreamy realm of the creative arts; when they intervene in public affairs, the 
argument goes, they soon find themselves out of their element, unable to 
understand political realities or to accomplish much in this alien realm. The 
cultural rebellion of the bohemians and radicals, disillusioned with attempts at 
direct intervention in political life, seems to confirm the assumption that 
intellectuals are irrelevant to the rough-and-tumble of economic and political 
life. These cultural rebels were simultaneously criticized from the left, too, on 
the grounds that they were interested only in self-expression at the expense of 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 309 


commitment to political change. 

These instances in U. S. history highlight a classic problem, one that can be 
formulated at its greatest generality in this way: If the proper concern of 
intellectuals is with transcendent values, abstract ideas, theories with universal 
intent, or artistic representations that have potentially universal appeal, then 
how should this concern relate to particular social and political issues and to 
the intellectual’s own location within history? Platonists will have one answer, 
thinking of ideas as independent and formative, though imperfectly realized in 
the world of ordinary experience. Historicists will acknowledge that ideal values 
are “emergent,” without reducing them to the factors that occasioned them. 
Liberals and market theorists will focus upon free choice among a multiplicity 
of concepts and values. ‘“Tough-minded realists,” disillusioned about the 
choices that are made both by consumers and by political decision makers, will 
emphasize the need for force, deterrence, or social contracts. Communitarians 
will insist upon the need for agreed values before there can be further 
discussion. Post-modernists, of course, will ask penetrating questions about the 
legitimacy and coherence of any claims to abstract or universal truth, for even 
the historical process through which they emerge is suspect. 

It could be, however, that these same conflicts and controversies will be 
evaluated more positively. Perhaps intellectuals, writers, and artists are not 
abandoning their vocation but exercising it appropriately when they offer 
perspectives on public affairs. Perhaps the intense rage that is directed against 
them attests to the relevance and power of what they are doing. Thus far, 
however, we have only identified the problem, not brought it to resolution. 


The relationship between intellectuals and the general populace is a troubled 
one, and Antonio Gramsci is noteworthy for having grappled with it quite 
directly. He refused to draw a rigid dichotomy between the professional 
intellectual and the ordinary person. There are no non-intellectuals, he asserted; 
all people are intellectuals, because all people think about their own situation. 
What is needed, he said, is to enable them to make their reflective activity more 
“critical.” But, of course, a genuinely critical consciousness must eventually be 
carried by a group of professional intellectuals (1971, 5-14, 323-43; 1975 12 §1; 
11 §12). 

Suggestions like his are often encountered in considerations of the social 
role of intellectuals, for their task is usually understood to be one of “educating 
the public.” Both terms, however, as well as the nature of their relationship, 
demand reflection. By the public we can mean everyone from government to 
“the masses.” By education we can mean procedures ranging from gaining the 
ear of decision makers to socratically educing insights from the populace. And 
what do we mean, finally, when we expect intellectuals to relate to “the people”? 
In the U. S., for example, there has been perpetual controversy over the nature of 
“populism” in its generic sense. It may be a noble expression of grass-roots 


310 Eugene TeSelle 


democracy and a corrective to the arrogance of intellectuals. On the other hand, 
populism is characterized by a rhetoric of stereotyping and scapegoating, 
sometimes of the powerful, sometimes of the educated, sometimes of the poor or 
minority groups. As Bender says, “Populism demonizes; its iconography is in 
fact a demonology [...]. Symbols always count far more than the understanding 
of structures, processes and causes” ( 352). 

Most intellectuals would say, upon reflection, that their proper role is 
neither elitist, doing things over the heads of the people, nor populist, submitting 
to their control or appealing to their worst impulses; it is to take the initiative in 
raising new questions and challenging popular opinions, inevitably exercising a 
kind of authority precisely in their function as intellectuals, but with willingness 
to have their statements tested in debate and practice.’ Gramsci’s own focus, of 
course, was not upon literary activity but upon the modern political party, one of 
whose achievements, he said, is to transmit the results of intellectual activity to 
more people, and to help them rise above the characteristic split between 
fatalism about their immediate situation and reverence for the conventional 
culture that is given them by the schoolteacher or the priest, or in our own day, 
by the mass media. 

It was in thinking about political strategy after Mussolini’s success that 
Gramsci explored two possible approaches. The French Revolution had invented 
one successful strategy, what he called ‘“Jacobinism” — seizure of leadership, 
defending positions against all attackers, becoming the vanguard that is able to 
mobilize and lead other social groups — and he characterized it in military terms 
as “war of maneuver.” This strategy had been followed successfully in Russia by 
Lenin. But similar attempts in Western Europe after the First World War had 
failed; the situation, Gramsci thought, called for a different strategy, one that he 
called “war of position.” Where there is a robust “civil society,” he said, it 
functions like a system of earthworks and fortifications lying behind the overt 
force of the state; if it is to be overcome, it will be not with swift cavalry 
maneuvers but only through trench or siege warfare (1971, 52-90, 229-39; 1975 
19 §24: 13 §24, 7 §16, 6 §138). Under such conditions, culture becomes 
especially important. Against the “hegemony” exercised by the dominant class, a 
“counter-hegemony” must be developed among those seeking something new 
and better, and once they achieve this counter-hegemony they will be in a 
position to exert political power. 

Gramsci’s analysis has been widely used for the reason that it seemed 
appropriate to twentieth-century realities. His theory of “war of position,” with 
its attention to civil society and the role of culture, not only has seemed to be an 


3 Michael notes that even the “pedagogy of the oppressed,” which claims to educe 
insights from the people themselves, must, by the nature of the case, be manipulative in 
its methods, no matter how valid one thinks one’s insights are or how willing one is to 
have them discussed and tested in popular discussion (50-56, 62-63). 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 311 


accurate reflection of social realities. It highlights the importance of intellectuals, 
whose influence usually depends upon a complex “public” rather than “the 
state,” and who under conditions of political confusion often find it preferable, 
as we have already seen, to concentrate their activities in the area of culture. A 
strong case can be made, furthermore, that Gramsci’s strategy was a viable one: 
in both Italy and France the Communists, like the Catholics, created a broad 
array of cultural and social activities, appealing to all age and occupational 
groups, in addition to strong unions in the workplace, while the attention of 
Socialists and Radicals was drawn almost entirely to parliamentarism (Birnbaum 
55, 139-40, 270-72, 278-79). 

Gramsci himself should not be misidentified, however, as a_ benign 
champion of cultural revolution through voluntary organizations. He was a 
committed Leninist who preferred “Jacobin” methods and fell back upon “war of 
position” to pursue the same strategy with different means. While Social 
Democrats were committed to parliamentarism, Communist intellectuals saw it 
as their task to be the vanguard of the revolutionary party, the “Modern Prince” 
which would lead an unformed proletariat into a total (he even accepted the word 
“totalitarian”) reorganization of society (Harding 208-16, 216-19). One 
hegemony was to be succeeded by another. 

This is, to be sure, one possible role for intellectuals, especially under 
conditions where there is not a strong “civil society.” It has been argued that this 
role was the endemic stance of intellectuals in Russia, who opposed the 
absolutism of the Russian state but aspired to the same authoritarian role for 
themselves, advocating for the people against the state but never comfortable 
acting with the people (Burbank 106-11). Lasch has suggested that most 
intellectuals have this kind of elitist streak somewhere in their makeup (1995, 3- 
22). 

To stop with these observations, however, would leave Gramsci isolated in 
his time and place, when it is clear that his observations have much wider 
relevance. In the U.S. today we have become accustomed to speaking of “culture 
wars”; the term is intentionally reminiscent of the Kulturkampf between 
Bismarck and the Vatican. Culture wars have an intrinsic tendency toward 
dualistic thinking: they are based in competing moral visions, such that those 
who disagree are placed beyond the bounds of legitimacy (Hunter 1991, 107- 
32), and there is an urge to “force political solutions” rather than trust continued 
dialogue (Hunter 1994, 215-26). Culture wars are made possible by the very 
character of civil society in the U.S.: the multiplicity of voluntary organizations, 
including religious, political, and “issue” organizations with strong value 
commitments; First Amendment protections of free speech and freedom of 
religion; and steadily enhanced communication through the press, radio and 
television, and now the Internet. Under such circumstances there is every reason 
to try to gain cultural hegemony, or at the very least to deny hegemony to other 
tendencies. The political achievements of the New Deal and the Great Society 


312 Eugene TeSelle 


were zealously contested in their own time. Then new divisions arose during the 
Sixties because of the civil rights movement, the “counter culture,” and 
opposition to the Vietnam War. They continued in debates over women’s rights, 
apartheid in South Africa, and U.S. policy in the Third World during the 
Seventies and Eighties. Now the end of the Cold War has only intensified culture 
wars over issues of feminism, same-sex relations, “family values,” and 
reproductive rights; and what these have in common, as Hunter points out, is that 
they raise the question of who will control the human body, a symbol of society 
itself (1994, 3-4). The well-funded campaigns of the religious and secular Right 
have a strange resemblance to the Gramscian quest for cultural hegemony, and in 
fact the Radical Right is a grotesque mirror image of the Leninist vanguard 
party, which is its greatest fear and which it uses as an excuse to impose 
traditional values upon a frightened society. 


Problematizing the Intellectuals, Issue #2. 

Often we hear what might be called the ‘damage theory,” the accusation that 
intellectuals are about as helpful to society as a bull in a china shop. Plato 
hoped that philosophers might become kings and straighten out political life; it 
turned out that his ideal polity was built upon inequality, totalitarian control, 
and the noble lie. All too frequently, it is said, this is the fate of intellectuals. 

To be sure, intellectuals have been associated with totalitarian or near- 
totalitarian movements; some regard it as symptomatic that Pol Pot, the creator 
of one of them, studied at the Sorbonne. At a far less dramatic level there is the 
accusation (voiced especially by Lasch) that intellectuals tend to be elitists, 
having excessive confidence in big government and technological progress, 
especially when they can be in charge. There is a widely diffused theory that 
intellectuals constitute a “new class” with its own interests, perhaps even 
representing historical destiny, yet with the limitations that belong to any class.” 
An East European has come to the doleful conclusion that “if you enter the 
political market-place where there is no place for culture values as such, you 
inevitably submit to its laws” (Szacki 237). Conservatives typically attack public 
intellectuals (except when they are their own) on the grounds that, in venturing 
into an area in which they lack expertise, they let “politics” intrude into 
“culture.” 

On the metaphysical plane there is a notable tradition, linked especially 
with Hegel and Marx, that denies or redefines the problem. When ideas become 
too abstract and independent, the argument goes, it is a sign of their invalidity, 
for the proper role of ideas is to express reality and to change it. There remains, 


* Gouldner suggests that while intellectuals may at times constitute a dangerous 
revolutionary party with totalitarian aspirations, or be the servants of the “old class,” they 
usually function as a “flawed universal class” with a unique perspective on the next stage 
to which human history ought to move (7, 83-85). 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 313 


even in this tradition, a distinction between the real and the rational, but their 
relationship is an organic one, such that the work of artists and intellectuals has 
value primarily in bringing to expression the spirit of the age, mediating it to 
itself and promoting the next advance in human society. This tradition is 
monistic, although in a complex way, and it expects one hegemony to be 
replaced by another. Metaphysics is reflected in politics where there is 
absolutism, liberalism seems to be a weaker remedy than a new form of 
absolutism. 

The mirror image of Hegelian idealism and Marxist praxis is the perverse 
realism of Nietzsche, Sorel, and Maurras, which no longer has confidence in the 
dialectic of history and therefore tries to force it through an exertion of will 
(Leninism has something of this, too). This tradition was the specific target of 
Benda’s La trahison des clercs. For Benda the clercs are those whose activities 
do not have practical ends, whose realm is ‘not of this world.” He saw it as an 
especially dramatic betrayal, therefore, when they subjected thought to 
“reality” and pandered to the political passions of the laics. 


A worthy counterpart to Gramsci in considering issues of Marxist strategy, 
but with a very different outcome, is the group called the “New York 
intellectuals.” They were a fairly cohesive group, mostly Jewish, with a 
distinctive development — a history that illustrates the many dilemmas faced by 
progressive intellectuals over a span of several decades, offering a kind of 
“longitudinal study” of the reactions of the same set of individuals to often 
drastic changes in the external situation, and to the endless internal bickering 
within the left during the same decades. They, like most U.S. intellectuals during 
the Thirties, tended to be progressive or socialist in their orientation. This group 
was distinctive, however, in that they turned away from the Communist Party out 
of revulsion against Stalinism and attached themselves to Trotsky, until they 
discovered how authoritarian he could be, too (Wald 1987 46-74; Dorman 41- 
82: Biel 192-221). Their reasons for dissent from Stalinism were numerous: its 
expulsion of dissenters, its factional behavior during the Spanish Civil War, the 
show trials of the late Thirties, the manipulative behavior of the Party during the 
Popular Front period, the flip-flops in the party line from pro-war to anti-war 
during the Hitler-Stalin pact of 1939-1941, and then to full participation in the 
war effort (to the extent of issuing a no-strike pledge and muting their previously 
vocal agitation for civil rights during World War II), the armed takeover of 
governments in Soviet-occupied Eastern Europe and a new round of show trials, 
the Khrushchev speech of 1956 and the suppression of the Hungarian revolt, and 
sO on. 

The consequence was that they, like the Socialist Party of Norman Thomas, 
did not participate in the Popular Front alliance with the New Deal in the mid- 
1930s. To some historians on the left it means that they missed the biggest 
opportunity in U.S. history to make an impact on social and economic 


314 Eugene TeSelle 


legislation; to them, however, it meant not being co-opted into supporting 
changes that merely made the capitalist system more tolerable. 

It also meant that they took a dim view of the cultural movement 
characterized as “proletarian” or “socialist realism.” They saw it as an 
expression of capitalist culture at its worst, a cynical manipulation of public 
opinion through the “vulgar political coding” of images, a violation of both 
intellectual and cultural freedom (Wald 1987, 221; 1992, 228-29). As early as 
the Thirties they championed modernist art as more innovative, critical, and 
profound. In continuity with the earlier generation of bohemians, then, they were 
critics of popular culture in the name of what was coming to be called “high- 
brow” culture. They became such critics with full awareness that modernism in 
the arts was often linked with the conservative New Criticism, but they wanted 
art to be creative, and like the earlier bohemians they recognized that it gained 
critical distance from contemporary society. 

We should not be simplistic about these issues. Futurism and constructivism 
had flourished in the early years of the U.S.S.R. A turn away from the most 
angular and dissonant kinds of modernism had already begun during the 
Twenties, especially with the “neo-classicism” of Stravinsky and Respighi, not 
motivated by a proletarian impulse at all. In any case, the New York intellectuals 
set themselves on the fringes of some of the major artistic achievements of the 
time, which ranged from murals in post offices and public schools across the 
U.S., the more controversial murals of Diego Rivera, Aaron Douglas’s 
celebrations of the Harlem Renaissance, the “agitation art” of Ben Shahn, and 
the photographs of Walker Evans, to the music of Kurt Weill and Marc 
Blitzstein, Aaron Copland, Roy Harris, and Virgil Thomson, characterized 
variously as “folk” or “nationalist” in character. 

It was the same among writers. The bohemianism of the Twenties was 
superseded by a new awareness of social and political issues, triggered first by 
the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti in 1927, then by the Depression and the 
Spanish Civil War (Cowley 223-42). Writers signed many pronouncements, and 
the Communist Party presented itself as the connecting strand among of them. It 
was never clear, however, to what extent writers were acting as /iberals or as 
Communists, or as an ambiguous mixture of the two, and most of them reserved 
the right to dissent from Soviet-style dogmatism while not making themselves 
captive to the existing social order.° The “proletarian novels” of the Thirties 
turned out to be more effective when they were written by independent novelists 
like Dos Passos, Hemingway, and Steinbeck rather than by those who tried to be 
“politically correct” and follow the party line.° Wald, in a sober moment of 


> A comprehensive and sympathetic survey of the many currents during these 
decades can be found in Aaron. 

° The expression “politically correct” was originally used on the left, of course, to 
criticize the conformist spirit of those who were under the discipline of the Communist 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 315 


reconsideration, acknowledges that the left had difficulty standing apart from the 
Communist Party, even when there were qualms about its tactics, because of its 
strong advocacy for justice and the dedication of its members; he concludes that 
“the Communist Party was central and that the other traditions too narrow to 
constitute an independent foundation” (1922, 123). 

The same dilemma haunted the political world. Henry Wallace was perhaps 
the chief embodiment of the New Deal, and he had immense popular appeal (for 
this reason F.D.R. chose him as vice-presidential candidate in 1940). It also 
meant that he aroused hostility from big city bosses, Southern Democrats, and 
conservative Catholics within the Democratic Party (the reason why F.D.R. 
dumped him in favor of Harry Truman in 1944); from industrialists, conservative 
Republicans, the military, the State Department, and the F.B.I. at home; and 
from champions of the British and French Empires as the Second World War 
drew to a close (Culver and Hyde 217-23, 339-66). The tragedy of the years 
1945-1948, as many of us who were coming to maturity during that time can see 
in hindsight, is that Wallace, who always identified his own program as 
“liberalism,” failed to detach himself sufficiently from Stalinism, while the 
“realists” and the anti-Stalinists failed to detach themselves sufficiently from the 
forces of reaction at home and abroad. 

With the Soviet-sponsored takeover of Eastern Europe and the rise of the 
Cold War, the options seemed to have narrowed. The New York intellectuals 
joined in the general framing of the alternatives as “Stalinism or democracy,” 
meaning by the latter the admittedly flawed social order of Western Europe and 
the U. S.: an order they had once tried to transform fundamentally but now saw 
as the best achievable for the moment, to be “critically” affirmed and defended 
against Stalinism (as they had earlier defended it against Fascism). Many of 
them, with the penitential spirit of those who regret their past errors and the zeal 
of new converts to what has come to be called “democratic capitalism,” were 
ready to join the Cold War. 

Anti-Stalinist liberals in the Democratic Party helped open the door as early 
as 1947 to the investigations by the House Un-American Activities Committee 
and later by Senator Joseph McCarthy; the hearings were then used to taint and 
discredit nearly all liberal and progressive movements. Persons under attack 
were expected not only to detach themselves from Stalinism, as most of them 
had already done, but to repent publicly, denounce former associates, and “name 





Party. Starting with Bloom (1987) it has been used by neo-conservatives to suggest that 
most progressive proposals — especially the movement known as “multi-culturalism” — 
are the result of bullying by a few opinion-setters and a conformist mentality on the part 
of their followers. A major polemic (or screed, to use a good Anglo-Saxon term) Is by the 
wife of the new Vice-President, Lynne V. Cheney, who dredges up all the horror stories 
that could be found. Chapter mottoes are quotations from Orwell’s /984, and the general 
thesis of the book is that political correctness is an attack on Western culture as a whole. 


316 Eugene TeSelle 


names.” Most intellectuals joined in the ideological warfare, if only out of 
revulsion at the manipulative behavior of the Communist Party. It was especially 
easy for Trotskyites to become militant anti-Stalinists; from among them came 
leaders of the C.I.A. front organizations that exerted their influence upon 
organized labor throughout Latin America, Europe, Asia, and Africa. In sum, 
then, Progressives were fatally divided by various attempts — from Stalinists, 
Trotskyites, and “realists” alike — to monopolize leadership. The situation was 
made worse by the willingness of the anti-Stalinists to make unholy alliances 
with enemies of liberal or progressive policies. 

Alternatives did exist. Henry Wallace, although he was naive about both 
Communism and American political realities, tried to build a broad coalition that 
would maintain the New Deal agenda and work through the United Nations. I. F. 
Stone began his clear-eyed documentation of the Cold War and the 
disinformation that it fostered. Irving Howe and others maintained continued 
loyalty to “independent socialist” goals, and C. Wright Mills wrote searching 
critiques of culture and society. Several plays by Arthur Miller dissected the 
inquisitorial spirit of the times. 

Perhaps the most dramatic moment came when Lillian Hellman, called 
before the Congressional committee in 1952, sent a letter offering to tell 
everything asked about herself but declining to answer questions about others. 
She explained her position in personal rather than ideological terms: 


I cannot and will not cut my conscience to fit this year’s fashions, even though I long ago 
came to the conclusion that I was not a political person and could have no comfortable 
place in any political group. 

I was raised in an old-fashioned American tradition and there were certain homely things 
that were taught to me: to try to tell the truth, not to bear false witness, not to harm my 


neighbor, to be loyal to my country, and so on. 
(93) 


When the Committee, confused about what to do, entered her letter into the 
record, her attorney immediately distributed copies to members of the press, one 
of whom said audibly, “Thank God somebody finally had the guts to do it” 
(Hellman 109). Two years later, during the McCarthy-Army hearings, Boston 
attorney Joseph Welch similarly turned the tide by saying, “Have you no sense of 
decency, sir?” Personal courage in appealing to society’s own understanding of 
virtue still has a powerful appeal, bypassing political and ideological disputes. 

Very few of the intellectuals, however, were able to walk the fine line 
between defending the rights of the accused, dissenting from their now 
unfashionable ideology, and championing progressive goals. To be sure, it was a 
difficult situation. But the dichotomy between Soviet totalitarianism and 
American freedom has seemed to many, both at the time and since, to be too 
simple an alternative, and defense of the capitalist world too limited a goal, 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 317 


especially when it meant alliances with forces of repression. There were many 
who wanted to be more inclusive at home and to end imperialism abroad. The 
“realists,” in turn, viewed these other possibilities as utopian fantasies and 
concentrated their attention on what could be accomplished in the world of 
political power. While intellectuals are usually able to stretch the imagination of 
political decision-makers, they may succeed only in rationalizing existing 
policies. 

More changes came with the surprise victory of Fidel Castro in Cuba on the 
first day of 1959, and the transformation of all of Latin America into a potential 
theater of revolution. Simultaneously a new home-grown spirit of radical 
engagement arose during the 1960s: first the civil rights movement, then the 
“counter culture,’ then opposition to intervention in Vietnam. Older 
intellectuals, who already had unfavorable memories of the Old Left, deplored 
the uncritical enthusiasms of the New Left, many of whose members were 
students at Berkeley and Columbia where they taught. Reaction against the 
student movements, the realignment of the electorate by the campaigns of 
George Wallace and Richard Nixon in 1968, and a general conservative turn 
brought a change in political mood that has lasted for thirty years now. 

Some writers have bemoaned the “de-politicization” of intellectuals in 
recent decades. Many explanations can be found: the steady discrediting of the 
Soviet experiment, which has seemed to many to be a discrediting of Marxism or 
Socialism altogether; the popularity of the “end of ideology” theory, which, Biel 
suggests, has “fetishized” realism, the two-party system, a mixed or capitalist 
economy, and social stability (233); and the “apostasy of the elites” after 1970, 
when they abandoned their civic responsibility and became lawyers and lobbyists 
for corporate interests or flocked to the new think-tanks funded by conservative 
foundations (Judis 156-79). Jacoby has an even longer list: the “enclosure” of 
intellectuals in the university as the chief, and perhaps the only, locus of 
intellectual activity (153); the decline of newspaper readership, the loss of small 
bookstores, and the control of book publishing by mega-corporations; the move 
to the suburbs by much of the educated public, leaving decaying cities behind 
them; and most recently the gentrification of the bohemian neighborhoods in 
which public intellectuals flourished (19-22, 40-53, 224, 232). 

Boggs has written much about this spirit of “de-politicization.” He indicts 
the increased “corporate colonization of society” as reflected in a privatized 
landscape of shopping malls and gated communities, mass marketing and 
concentrated control of communications. He reminds intellectuals, however, that 
they are not merely victims but perpetrators. He sees “antipolitics” as a major 
theme in many of the trends in recent decades: the counter culture with its 
distrust of authority, the “new social movements,” ecology and the turn to 
simpler lifestyles, even the spirit of localism promoted by the emphasis on 
participatory democracy and community organizing. At the level of ideology 
there is the vogue of “post-modernism,” an attack on all attempts to unify human 


318 Eugene TeSelle 


history and to find in it trends worth joining or ends worth seeking. 


Problematizing the Intellectuals, Issue #3. 

While intellectuals are often accused of being too theoretical, or of being 
potentially totalitarian, there is also a “middle” accusation of short- 
sightedness, partisanship, and deception. When intellectuals claim to be 
independent, this argument goes, it is illusory, for they remain bound to those 
who pay their salaries or give them grants, who buy their books or publish them 
in the first place, who can deny them passports or call them before 
Congressional committees. In other words, they are bound to the existing set of 
social relationships, expressed on the consumer side by what the public (guided 
by advertising agencies) will buy or watch, and on the producer side by the 
government agencies, corporations, foundations, and think-tanks which subtly 
shape the agenda even for innovative research and creative works of art. We are 
familiar with this line of analysis in Marxist circles, which see ideologies as an 
expression of power relationships. But there are equivalents in exchange 
theories, which are intensely aware of the marketing of ideas as well as 
commodities, and among conservatives, who are concerned about legitimacy 
and thus are alert to counterfeit claims to it. Benda suggested that writers, 
dependent upon the middle classes who buy their books, are tempted not only to 
join them in their hatred of the poor but to imitate the aristocracy’s arbitrary 
authority and its scorn for equality (1928, 23-24, 165-68). Intellectuals are 
especially dangerous, the argument continues, because their ties are not as 
obvious as those of the “kept” intellectuals of past centuries, directly dependent 
upon patrons who gave them the task of entertaining, celebrating, and 
legitimating their power; nor are they like the advisers and technical experts, 
“hired guns” and “spin artists,” who so evidently do the bidding of 
governments or corporations. This kind of critique is the most damaging, or 
perhaps merely the most humiliating, since it exhibits the intellectual as a 
fallible human being like all the others, but with the potentiality to engage in 
deception and self-deception to a far greater degree. 


Groping Toward a Strategy 

In examining the actual involvement of intellectuals in public life during the 
twentieth century, I have tried to isolate the basic criticisms, finding at least three 
of them: (1) Intellectuals may be so caught up in ivory-tower research or artistic 
self-expression as to be irrelevant to politics; (2) when they do engage 
themselves in politics, they too often become dangerously fanatical; and (3) in 
all cases they may be deceived about both their independence and their lack of 
self-interest. We have the right to hope, however, that these problems are not 
totally pervasive; even error and perversion give testimony to truths and values 
that are being feigned. These three sets of problems may help us map out the 
dead ends into which intellectuals have strayed so that others can be warned 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 319 


against making the same mistakes. 

What, then, can be said, with the wisdom of hindsight, about the proper task 
of intellectuals? Responses tend to be of two kinds, procedural and substantive. 
Clearly intellectuals have felt an obligation to defend the rights of all, and 
especially of intellectuals and creative artists like themselves, against 
totalitarianisms of the right, left, or center. While Benda is often cited by those 
who denounce the intervention of intellectuals in politics, he was a Dreyfusard 
who felt that intellectuals are not treasonous when they defend reason and truth 
and justice against the passions of the moment (1928, 50-51). In many cases this 
task means defending human rights against abuse of power by governments or by 
impassioned popular movements. 

The tragedy of the American left during the Thirties and Forties, and again 
during the Sixties, also suggests another procedural obligation: to denounce 
factional attempts at monopoly control. Precisely when there are vigorous 
popular movements and appealing programs, those who have strong “control 
needs” will be tempted to jump in front of the parade for their own 
aggrandizement, and those who repudiate them may be tempted in turn to make 
self-defeating alliances. The alternative is to keep moving ahead on a broad 
front, ignoring inappropriate behavior. 

When it comes to dealing with substantive issues, we have seen an 
abundance of dogmatism about ends and means. At the end of the twentieth 
century, however, dogmatic attitudes are limited largely to the “end of ideology” 
school and those who hold to the Thatcherite TINA principle (“there is no 
alternative” to the standing order). The left is often in the position of calling, 
with Carl Boggs, for some kind of “repoliticization.” What does that mean, and 
what might it look like? By politics Boggs means 


a linkage of immediate struggles to long-range goals, the development of a conscious, 
planned framework of action connected to societal issues and priorities, to a broadening 


of social governance. 
(2000, 227) 


In sum, one relates one’s own issues to the public realm and its debates and 
struggles. What, then, would be its content? Boggs does not suppose that any 
single theory or belief system will offer the solution, and if it did, it would have 
to be imposed by totalitarian means. He expects a continuation of the “vibrant 
multiplicity of discourses, identities, and movements” that has become a durable 
feature of our epoch (2000, 236). His own recommendation is what he calls 
“developmental democracy,” which “links expansion of democratic forms to the 
ideals of both human self-development and social progress” (2000, 253). But he, 
like the rest of us, is aware of its difficulties. 

The world about which intellectuals were concerned throughout the 
twentieth century was clearly a dangerous one. They often raised their voices to 


320 Eugene TeSelle 


protest injustices: savagery in conquest and warfare, abuses of legal process, 
violations of human rights, cynical deception of groups and whole nations. The 
world is appreciably better because of the role they played, for they sounded the 
alarm about many issues that might otherwise have been ignored. The very fact 
that they raised their voices caused political leaders to be more cautious in their 
actions, yet they did not by themselves achieve any major transformations. 
Imperialism in European, American, Asian, even Islamic and African forms has 
continued until the pressure of events forced concessions. Totalitarian 
governments were halted, in the end, only through open warfare or through 
sustained economic and diplomatic pressures. And even those achievements 
were ambiguous: Fascist and Nazi governments were permitted to grow because 
fear of Communism was even greater; the Cold War against Communism 
supported, and in fact created de novo, totalitarian regimes around the world; 
after the end of the Cold War the world is awash in a surplus of dangerous 
firearms that had been supplied by both sides to their surrogates; and the 
Pentagon is now depicting itself as the sole guarantor of order in the uncertain 
world of the twenty-first century. 

The last half of the twentieth century saw perhaps the greatest and most 
widely shared prosperity, at least in the First World, that has ever existed in 
human history. It cannot continue except through increased military, diplomatic, 
and economic controls. And if it does continue, we shall see a world in which 
local economies are disrupted by market forces, and employment becomes 
increasingly dependent upon a globalized market. Attempts to guide economic 
life toward humane ends will be overpowered by transnational corporations, able 
to purchase the favor of the major political parties. They can intimidate not only 
Third World governments but cities and states in the First World through threats 
to move jobs elsewhere, and persuade the world’s governments to replace their 
regulatory frameworks with the shadowy rulings of the World Trade 
Organization. Assaults on the environment — logging of rain forests, depletion 
of fossil fuel resources, increase of “greenhouse gases” in the atmosphere — will 
continue without effective controls. Human misery will be compounded by the 
pressures of population, environmental degradation, and global markets. 

This is the welcome that the twenty-first century extends to us. Intellectuals, 
as we say in the vernacular, “have their work cut out for them.” But it is a 
challenge that they cannot decline any more than their predecessors did in past 
centuries, including the one just passed. 


Appendix 

The author has a special interest in the kind of intellectual who earns a living in 
academe but is involved in public issues on a “volunteer” or “part-time” basis. 
To use Gramsci’s now-classic distinction, | have been both a “traditional 
intellectual” (and with a vengeance, dealing with the classical tradition of 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 321 


Christianity, figures like Augustine and Aquinas, and often defending the 
tradition against ill-informed attacks from liberationists) and an “organic 
intellectual,” closely associated with local organizations and quite specific social 
movements.’ Others beside Gramsci, of course, have made similar 
differentiations, e.g., between the “great tradition” and the “little tradition,” or 
between so-called “universal knowledge” and “local knowledge.” 

My activities as a “traditional intellectual” have turned out to be rather 
recondite in character, getting responses primarily from other scholars. I have 
not been either a popularizer or a “public intellectual,” building a career around 
commentary on current events. Although there have been those in Nashville who 
regard me as primarily an agitator who teaches at Vanderbilt “for cover,” my 
local activities have been more like an avocation, “volunteer work” rather than a 
profession. My writing in that area has not been the sort of thing that secures 
academic promotion and tenure, even as a public intellectual. It has been frankly 
journalistic, consisting of letters to the editor, short pieces in the newsletters of 
local and regional organizations, longer pieces in a few national publications of 
small circulation, and now on web pages. Through long experience | have 
learned fairly well how to write more or less effectively in these “little genres.” 

To be specific, my local activities have been centered in an interracial 
neighborhood with about 2000 households. We began organizing at just the time 
when the 1968 Fair Housing Act and the 1971 Charlotte-Mecklenburg decision 
on school desegregation made it possible to show that an_ interracial 
neighborhood was viable even in Nashville. These were also the years when the 
“urban movement” was gaining national visibility, and we were part of the effort 
to pass the Community Reinvestment Act which required federally insured 
lenders to meet the credit needs of all segments of their communities, including 
minority and lower-income communities and their residents. 

Despite being labeled a “community activist” (or perhaps because of it), I 
have never been part of the club of attorneys and business people, labor union 
officials, and office holders who are bound together by ties of influence and self- 
interest. In fact, | have been unappointable to any public boards and 
unconfirmable by the Council even if | were to be appointed by the Mayor. In an 
era of globalization I have focused upon neighborhoods, housing, community 
economic development, matters that definitely belong to the “little tradition.” We 
are of minor value to office-holders and power-brokers, except on those rare 


’ Gramsci did not scorn the traditional intellectual; he defended classical education and 
knew the importance of knowing and critically assessing the best that has been thought. 
While he knew that intellectuals always come from some social class and are likely to be 
the defenders of the dominant class, he also recognized the tendency of intellectuals to 
become an independent and autonomous group, especially when they become alienated 
from the ruling ideology, and he knew that some of them would join the “subaltern” 
groups and become their “organic intellectuals” (1971, 5-23, 1975, 12 §1). 


322 Eugene TeSelle 


occasions when they need to identify a site for some new federal program or find 
a local illustration of some newly fashionable trend such as the “new urbanism.” 
I think I understand what it is to be an “organic intellectual,” and one basically 
alienated from the Establishment, though my situation is dramatically different 
from that in Gramsci’s Italy. 

My activities as an intellectual, | was saying, have been bifurcated because I 
have also played a public role as a Presbyterian minister. During the 1980s I 
became involved in the Witherspoon Society, the “liberal caucus” in the 
Presbyterian Church (it is named for John Witherspoon, the only member of the 
clergy to sign the Declaration of Independence), and for more than ten years I 
have attended meetings of the annual General Assembly and taken part in the 
political maneuverings there. 

Thus I have had three quite different public roles: as “Professor Eugene 
TeSelle,” as “Rev. Eugene TeSelle,” and as “Citizen Gene TeSelle.” These are, 
as we say, three different “hats” that | wear, and while there must be at least a 
rough consistency among my activities, the differentiations between them are 
important. When I write letters to the editor of the Tennessean, | do not “pull 
rank” as either a professor or a minister, on the principle that what I say must 
make good sense as public argument, without claims of authority. In return | 
have been thanked at times for not associating my views with Vanderbilt 
University or the Presbyterian Church. Differentiation of roles, of course, is a 
characteristic feature of the modern age. 

While intellectuals sometimes act as though it would be demeaning to pay 
too much attention to local issues, there are many good reasons to make the 
connection. For one thing, involvement with local issues quickly sends one to the 
library, the bookstore, or the Internet, looking for precedents, perspectives, and 
analyses, in the process broadening one’s awareness of many disciplines. It is 
what intellectuals are trained to do. Local problems are likely to be the result of 
more general factors: economic pressures, demographic trends, laws and policies 
framed in Washington. One soon discovers not only resources but active allies, 
movements to be joined, campaigns to be waged. Conversely, local involvement 
is a good way to test and modify the grand theories and policy recommendations 
that are the usual domain of intellectuals. Of course the local situation may not 
be typical, so that what is feasible in some places is not in others, but if a 
proposal turns out to be unrealistic in too many places it will need to be 
rethought. And at the very least one must ask how to communicate grand 
theories and policies so that they will seem both persuasive and feasible ‘on the 
ground.” 

You can never tell when your activities will have a “conjuncture” with 
larger events. Then you become a foot soldier in the larger campaigns that are 
being waged, and you only hope that your perceptions and responses will be 
appropriate to both the local and the broader setting. 

During the fight against aid to the contras in the 1980s, we think it was 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 323 


important that opposition surfaced even in Nashville, the symbolic home of 
country music. Conservatives understood the importance of that symbolism, too; 
a conservative think-tank, the Institute for Religion and Democracy, set up a 
related organization, Presbyterians for Democracy and Religious Freedom, with 
headquarters in Nashville to demonstrate how “grass-roots” they were. 

I must also mention Bridgestone-Firestone, which got into the news during 
the year 2000 because of tread separation on certain kinds of tires, especially 
those used on large sports-utility vehicles. Many of the defective tires, it was 
discovered, had been made by “replacement workers” during the strike in 1995- 
96. Since the corporation’s U.S. headquarters are in Nashville, | was one of the 
local activists who took part in several demonstrations by the Rubber Workers 
(later merged with the Steel Workers). Union members came by the busloads 
from around the country and marched toward the corporate headquarters with 
huge papier-maché puppets of Mother Jones and other labor heroes. The 
Bridgestone-Firestone management limited the delegates who could enter the 
building. Once I went in alone, and I was scolded for taking part in such 
activities as a member of the clergy. On another occasion two were allowed in, 
and I was joined by a United Methodist university chaplain (most ministers 
serving congregations would not feel free to take part in labor demonstrations). It 
was clear at the time that Bridgestone-Firestone was feeling intense pressure 
from the Japanese corporation that had recently taken it over. Only now can the 
full effects be seen. 

On such occasions one will be, at best, like the chorus in Greek or 
Shakespearean drama, observing and commenting on events that are essentially 
outside one’s own control, but playing one’s part as best one can. All of that 
belongs to the proper work of the intellectual, too. 


Vanderbilt University 


324 Eugene TeSelle 


Works Cited 


Aaron, Daniel. Writers on the Left: Episodes in American Literary Communism. New 
York: Harcourt, Brace, & World, 1971. 

Benda, Julien. La trahison des clercs. Paris: B. Grasset, 1927. 

. The Treason of the Intellectuals. Trans. Richard Aldington. New York: William 
Morrow, 1928. 

Bender, Thomas. “Us Against Them.” The Nation (13 March 1995): 350-52. 

Biel, Steven. /ndependent Intellectuals in the United States, 1910-1945. New York: New 
York UP, 1992. 

Birnbaum, Norman. After Progress: American Social Reform and European Socialism in 
the Twentieth Century. Oxford: Oxford UP, 2001. 

Bloom, Allan. The Closing of the American Mind: How Higher Education Has Failed 
Democracy and Impoverished the Soul of Today's Students. New York: Simon & 
Shuster, 1987. 

Boggs, Carl. Intellectuals and the Crisis of Modernity. Albany: SUNY UP, 1993. 

. The End of Politics: Corporate Power and the Decline of the Public Sphere. 
New York: Guilford Press, 2000. 

Boynton, Robert S. “The New Intellectuals: African-American Intellectuals.” Atlantic 
Monthly (March 1995): 53-56, 60-62, 64-68, 70. 

Burbank, Jane “Were the Russian /nte/ligenty Organic Intellectuals?” Fink, Leonard, and 
Reid 89-120. 

Cheney, Lynne V. Telling the Truth: Why Our Culture and Our Country Have Stopped 
Making Sense and What We Can Do About It. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1995. 

Cowley, Malcolm. Exile ’s Return: A Narrative of Ideas. New York: Norton, 1934. 

Crunden, Robert M. Ministers of Reform: The Progressives’ Achievment in American 
Civilization, 1889-1920. New York: Basic Books, 1982. 

Culver, John C., and John Hyde. American Dreamer: The Life and Times of Henry A. 
Wallace. New York: Norton, 2000. 

Donatich, John, et al. “The Future of the Public Intellectual: A Forum.” The Nation (12 
Feb. 2001): 25-35. 

Dorman, Joseph. Arguing the World: The New York Intellectuals in Their Own Words. 
New York: Free Press, 2000. 

Dorrien, Gary. Soul in Society:: The Making and Renewal of Social Christianity. 
Minneapolis: Fortress, 1995. 

Fink, Leon, Stephen T. Leonard, and Donald M. Reid, eds. /nte/lectuals and Public Life: 
Between Radicalism and Reform. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1996. 

Friedman, Milton and Rose Friedman. Free to Choose: A Personal Statement. New 
York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1980. 

Gouldner, Alvin W. The Future of Intellectuals and the Rise of the New Class. New 
York: Seabury, 1979. 

Gramsci, Antonio. Selections from the Prison Notebooks of Antonio Gramsci. Ed. and 
trans. Quintin Hoare and Geoffrey Nowell Smith. New York: International 
Publishers, 1971. 

. Quaderni del carcere. Ed. Valentino Gerratana. Torino: Einaudi, 1975. 


Engaged Intellectuals and the Politics of Culture: A Retrospective Analysis 325 


Harding, Neil. “Intellectuals and Socialism: Making and Breaking the Proletariat.” 
Jennings and Kemp-Welch 195-222. 
Hellman, Lillian. Scoundrel Time. Boston: Little, Brown, 1976. 
Hofstadter, Richard. Anti-intellectualism in American Life. New York: Knopf, 1970. 
Hulsether, Mark. Building a Protestant Left: “Christianity and Crisis” Magazine, 1941- 
1993. Knoxville: U of Tennessee P, 1999. 
Hunter, James Davison. Culture Wars: The Struggle to Define America. New York: 
Basic Books, 1991. 
. Before the Shooting Begins: Searching for Democracy in America's Culture 
War. New York: Free Press, 1994. 
Huszar, George B. de, ed. The Intellectuals: A Controversial Portrait. Glencoe: Free 
Press, 1960. 
Jacoby, Russell. The Last Intellectuals: American Culture in the Age of Academe. New 
York: Basic Books, 1987. 
Jennings, Jeremy, and Anthony Kemp-Welch, eds. /ntellectuals in Politics: From the 
Dreyfus Affair to Salman Rushdie. London and New York: Routledge, 1997. 
Judis, John B. The Paradox of American Democracy. Elites, Special Interests, and the 
Betrayal of the Public Trust. New York: Pantheon, 2000. 
Lasch, Christopher. The New Radicalism in America (1889-1963): The Intellectual as a 
Social Type. New York: Knopf, 1965. 
. The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy. New York: Norton, 
1995. 
Maclean, Ian, Alan Montefiore, and Peter Winch, eds. The Political Responsibility of 
Intellectuals. Cambridge: UP, 1990. 
McCarraher, Eugene. Christian Critics: Religion and the Impasse in Modern American 
Social Thought. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 2000. 
Michael, John. Anxious Intellects: Academic Professionals, Public Intellectuals, and 
Enlightenment Values. Durham: Duke UP, 2000. 
Szacki, Jerzy. “Intellectuals Between Politics and Culture.” Maclean, Montefiore, and 
Winch 229-46. 
Wald, Alan M. The New York Intellectuals: The Rise and Decline of the Anti-Stalinist 
Left from the 1930s to the 1980s. Chapel Hill: U of North Carolina P, 1987. 
. The Responsibility of Intellectuals: Selected Essays on Marxist Traditions in 
Cultural Commitment. New Jersey: Humanities Press, 1992. 
Zurier, Rebecca. Art for the Masses: A Radical Magazine and Its Graphics, 1911-1917. 
Philadelphia: Temple UP, 1988. 
. Robert W. Snyder, and Virginia M. Mecklenburg. Metropolitan Lives: The 
Ashcan Artists and Their New York. New York: National Museum of American Art 
in Association with Norton, 1995. 


So 


| a 7 
tL re i eo ee ec © Absa Wath rabbis esa 


7 Ay) Afaty | alettr w a \-o-- — Wi jf) wm <Ai? 
AS 7 6 : sf 96 *@ ¢ nt (ar _ pee — GF She 18) 
o % 1 ve , 9 @ Ob Fees fi 


i / a See a a 
v, ee et es 


: = 008 se fp = twas 





NOTES & REVIEWS 


John Butcher 





Le ultime poesie di Eugenio Montale. 
Intervista ad Andrea Zanzotto 


Quando Satura usci nel ’71, la critica si trové pressoché unanime nel riconoscere 
una netta differenza tra questa quarta raccolta e le poesie precedenti. 
Indubbiamente Satura manifesta notevoli sviluppi tematici, ma mi sembra che la 
vera importanza della raccolta consista nelle innovazioni formali e la conseguente 
musicalita. Che cosa ha provocato questo cambiamento di stile? 

Montale ha chiamato il suo nuovo stile “il rovescio del tappeto”. Questa scrittura 
corrisponde ad un cambiamento di situazione. Satura nasce dopo la morte della moglie. 
La poetica montaliana si nutre di una costellazione di donne. L’autore de La bufera e 
altro aveva coltivato due grandi miti femminili: Volpe e, in modo particolare, Clizia. 
Quest’ultima, pur esistente, é una figura simbolica, addirittura cristica, tanto é vero che, 
ad un certo punto, la chiama “Cristofora”. Apparteneva ad un gruppo culturale ebraico 
che cercava un avvicinamento al cattolicesimo su una base che aveva anche un elemento 
laico: qualcosa di molto complesso. Da parecchi anni Montale aveva un rapporto incerto 
con la moglie. Quando all’altezza degli Xenia scrive “Caro piccolo insetto / che 
chiamavano mosca non so perché”, non pare che dica il vero, poiché quando Lei 
cominciava a punzecchiare, lo faceva con tanta intelligenza quanta insistenza. Ma piu 
avanti Montale rivela che era stato Stanislaus Joyce, il fratello di James Joyce, a metterle 
quel nomignolo, chiamandola “hellish fly”. Sara vero o forse no, comunque, quando 
Montale dice “non so perché”, scherza... Naturalmente c’era l’affetto reale della lunga 
convivenza; non si pud negare che ci fosse un legame anche di gratitudine, in parte 
perché lei lo aveva tratto d’impaccio nel primo periodo della sua sistemazione a Firenze. 
La morte della Mosca avviene nel °63. Poi il dramma della quotidianita cambia, si 
dissolve in un certo senso, e dal regime-dominio della Mosca, Montale passa al regime- 
dominio della Gina che € molto diverso. La Gina era pur sempre una governante, per 
quanto simpaticamente possessiva. C’é stato un periodo di assestamento dopo la morte 
della moglie, e di ripensamento anche stilistico. Nelle raccolte centrali prevalevano certe 
tensioni che si volgevano verso una oscura metafisica. La donna simbolica, misteriosa era 
vicina ma anche lontana e sfuggente dentro una poesia in cui l’aspetto “ermetizzante” 
aveva un ruolo fondamentale (Clizia, Irma Brandeis, era un mito). Ma quando divenne 
realta che gli imponeva di decidere se seguirla 0 no in America, lui si ritrasse, senza mai 
perdonarsi. In Satura persiste il gusto del velame che é stato anche del primo Montale, 
ma mentre allora agiva la fiamma sempre piu sublimizzante successivamente prevale un 
discorso quasi “veicolare” in forte contatto con il reale (anche se stupendi lampi di 
persistenza del sublime non mancano: si pensi a “L’angelo nero”). 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


328 John Butcher: Le ultime poesie di Montale. Intervista a A. Zanzotto 


Dopo lesperienza di Satura la poesia montaliana fa ulteriori passi verso la 
“prosasticita” mentre il poeta si mostra sempre pil chiuso nei confronti del mondo 
fuori del suo appartamento di via Bigli. E possibile individuare un ulteriore Montale 
successivo al Montale di Satura? 

Sostanzialmente, no. Ma € pur vero che si accentuano certi caratteri in cul appare una 
straordinaria duplicita, messa talmente sotto gli occhi da sembrare impossibile. Ad 
esempio, nel Diario del '7/ e del '72 pare che Montale se la prenda con Kafka: 


Dicono che nella grammatica di Kafka 
manca il futuro. Questa la scoperta 
di chi serbO l’incognito e con buone ragioni. 
Certo costui teme le conseguenze 
flagranti o addirittura conflagranti 
del suo colpo di genio. E Kafka stesso, 
la sinistra cornacchia, andrebbe al rogo 
nell’effigie e nelle opere, d’altronde 
largamente invendute. 
(“Verboten’’) 


Non é immaginabile che Montale dica “veramente” cosi di Kafka. Sono andato a vedere 
cid che scriveva come critico su Kafka e afferma cose totalmente diverse. Come si 
spiega? Si spiega con quel “Dicono” iniziale che si riferisce ai critici. La sua apparente 
lontananza da Kafka (“cornacchia” in ceco), smentita in quegli scritti in prosa, ¢ talmente 
sbandierata proprio per confondere. Sempre nel Diario del '7] e del '72, c’é una poesia 
intitolata “Il pirla” in cui lui parla della morte della moglie. Lei gli dice “Sei un pirla”: 
quelle sarebbero state le parole di commiato, parole ben differenti dal clima della poesia 
“Caro piccolo insetto...”. Macon Montale bisogna sempre stare attenti. Non é verosimile 
che la moglie gli abbia detto cosi al momento di morire, mentre € pil: probabile che glielo 
abbia ripetuto cento volte in vita, pili o meno seriamente. Quindi, come parola-summa 
che raccoglie tutta la vita in comune, gli resta nell’orecchio quella. Anche qui c’é tutt’un 
gioco. Lui rovescia il tappeto e sembra parlare chiaro, ma in realta non parla affatto 
chiaro, vela in una diversa maniera. Prima velava mostrando ricchi drappeggi, adesso 
vela sdoppiando. C’é sempre un reticolo che confonde le piste. 


Le commemorazioni del centenario della nascita di Montale furono dominate dal 
dibattito critico intorno al Diario postumo. Lei condivide la tesi di alcuni critici che il 
Diario postumo sia apocrifo? 
A mio avviso bisogna porre la spinosa questione, se siano versi scritti da lui 0 no, alla 
luce di questo gusto di giocherellare. Mi ricordo di aver parlato pit: volte con lui della 
cosiddetta letteratura d’oltretomba che é di solito una grossolana contraffazione. Per 
esempio, c’é stata tutta una miriade di medium che asserivano di far parlare grandi 
defunti: e si pensi al caso di Victor Hugo. Da tempi lontanissimi Montale aveva covato i! 
desiderio di scrivere qualche cosa che fosse un apocrifo di se stesso. C’é gia uno scritto 
del °47 in cui accenna ad un tale che avrebbe potuto lasciare molta materia da svelare un 
po’ alla volta. 

Il poeta che scrive “mentre leggevo il Deuteroisaia” (“Caro piccolo insetto...”) € uno 
che si nutre di libri sacri, ma anche degli apocrifi. Proprio /saia é un problema. II 


John Butcher: Le ultime poesie di Montale. Intervista. a A. Zanzotto 329 


Deuteroisaia é un secondo nucleo scritto forse da un altro autore, pur se accettato nel 
canone. Del resto sono ben note le difficolta di unificare quella vera selva di scritti che 
vanno sotto il nome di Isaia (solo caso tra i profeti), e che comprende sicuramente anche 
quelli dei suoi imitatori o prosecutori. Ma perché Montale legge il Deuteroisaia, perché 
non dice: “mentre leggevo /saia’’? Ci potrebbero essere motivi metrici, ma certo s’insinua 
sempre quel gusto di creare delle piste molteplici. Arrivo a credere che certi momenti del 
Diario postumo, che sembrano sciatti, siano stati deliberatamente lasciati cosi da 
Montale. Una caratteristica della raccolta é che talvolta tornano i temi dell’autore come 
“vaporizzati”, come “scaduti”. So che Dante Isella, il contestatore pit forte e peraltro un 
critico importantissimo, afferma che in queste poesie vi sono stilemi che appartengono 
alle poesie di Annalisa Cima, l’ultima figura femminile cara a Montale. Posso arrivare al 
punto di credere ad una voluta accettazione da parte di Montale di questo influsso; si 
resterebbe sempre nell’area di “depistaggio”. (Si noti che questa stessa parola ha due 
significati opposti.) E strano poi che nella sua opera canonica sia ben difficile trovare 
accenni precisi alla stessa Cima, che sicuramente lo frequento dalla fine degli anni °60 in 
avanti. (Montale collabor6 con la Cima quale presidente della Fondazione Schlesinger.) E 
ancora aperto il problema della collazione tra il Montale canonico e quello, diciamo, 
apocrifo. Essendo databili entrambe le linee, non é difficile il confronto, che sarebbe in 
ogni caso utilissimo. 


Nella poesia “A Leone Traverso” che fa capo alla quinta raccolta, Diario del ’71 e 
del ’72, Montale descrive la sua attuale vena poetica come quella di un “lauro 
risecchito” e piu volte nel corso delle ultime raccolte lui asserisce di essere un poeta 
fallito. Leggendo queste poesie trent’anni dopo, ci si accorge di essere in presenza di 
un poeta la cui vena non é affatto esaurita. 

Nelle ultime poesie persiste una continuita che viene dal primissimo Montale e perdura 
attraverso tutta la sua vita. Questa continuita consiste in una capacita straordinaria di 
condensare a livello fonico-ritmico e timbrico contrastanti elementi. Montale non entra 
mai in una “dodecafonia”; é sempre tonale. E per questo che ebbe aspre polemiche con i 
Novissimi che in un certo modo introducevano forme di atonalismo nella scrittura. 
D’altronde, questa musica tonale che gli nasce dentro, non é affatto priva di capacita di 
alludere all’atonale. Ma l’insieme riporta ad un’armonia che é contestuale al ritmo di una 
vitalita forte, sostenuta, ben al di la del “cinque per cento” che lui si attribui. 


Passando ora a Lei, nella Sua poesia degli anni settanta la filosofia ha giocato un 
ruolo significativo: penso, ad esempio, ad un componimento dell’“Ipersonetto” che 
inizia riportando il verso di Foscolo “qual fia ristoro a’ di perduti un sasso” dove 
accenna anche a Holzwege di Martin Heidegger. Negli anni sessanta e settanta si 
discusse ampiamente della fine della metafisica e addirittura della filosofia. E 
possibile che la filosofia pid recente abbia influito su Montale come anche su di Lei? 

Si, un influsso mai ben definibile esiste per me, certamente; ¢ accettato, ma anche non 
privo di sfumature ironiche. In ogni caso Montale segue vie proprie. Innanzitutto, 
dobbiamo tener presente che é stato influenzato grosso modo da filosofie neognostiche di 
cui si trovano nelle ultimissime raccolte tracce ben evidenti. In quegli anni fummo in 
tanti a sentire questa influenza. Allora si stavano formando le grandi fratture che hanno 
poi causato il cambiamento generale della societa. C’era il senso di una grave 
insufficienza nei confronti di cid che nella realta e nelle scienze umane e naturali 


330 John Butcher: Le ultime poesie di Montale. Intervista a A. Zanzotto 


avanzava velocemente. In Montale un fatto straordinariamente bello é l’accrescersi della 
sua Capacita del guizzo, del lampo che si dona improvvisamente in splendide sintesi, 
divenute quasi proverbiali. Si possono ricordare certe frasi famose del primo Montale 
quale “Codesto solo oggi possiamo dirti, / cio che non siamo, cid che non vogliamo” 
(“Non chiederci la parola che squadri da ogni lato...”). Questa ¢ una sentenza di natura 
filosofica forse basata, allora, su pensatori come Rensi di area genovese e anche 
Boutroux. Quando sentenzia nel secondo periodo, ritroviamo pressappoco gli stessi 
stilemi. L’incipit 


La vita oscilla 
tra il sublime e l’immondo 
con qualche propensione 
per il secondo. 
(“La vita oscilla...”) 


puo fungere da pendant perfetto a quello che aveva affermato prima. Allora c’era un tipo 
di nube che avvolgeva una sentenza forte come un colpo di freccia. Dopo c’era un altro 
tipo di nube, ma la sentenza memorabile si ostinava ancora ad apparire. 


Molti poeti di quegli anni si ispiravano alle nuove scoperte psicoanalitiche (penso a 
Edoardo Sanguineti ma anche alle Sue poesie). In una poesia “dispersa” con il titolo 
“La vita in prosa” Montale ribadisce la propria antipatia verso la psicoanalisi: “Non 
resta che il pescaggio nell’inconscio / ultima farsa del nostro moribondo teatro”. 

So che ce l’aveva con la psicoanalisi. Quando Michel David ha pubblicato il suo 
fondamentale trattato, La psicoanalisi nella cultura italiana, Montale lo ha recensito con 
un dire/non dire, approvare/disapprovare. David mi ha chiesto: “Se vedi Montale, cerca 
di approfondire con lui il discorso, se non sulla psicoanalisi — perché si sa che non la 
vede tanto bene — almeno sul mio libro”. Io ho tentato di porgli qualche domanda ma lui 
ha replicato: “Sai, come si fa a leggere seicento pagine in due ore?” Battuta pungente, 
evidentemente era stata una lettura stocastica, distratta. Un altro episodio significativo 
dell’indole montaliana pud trovarsi nella famosa presentazione degli Ecrits di Lacan in 
via Bigli all’ Istituto Francese nel 1966. Tutta la Milano che contava si era data convegno 
li, pero lui non c’era sebbene abitasse a tre numeri di distanza. 


Montale apprezzava molto i Suoi versi. La recensione montaliana a La belta ha 
svolto un ruolo importante nella ricezione critica della Sua poesia. 

Montale, contro ogni mia aspettativa, ha recensito con grande partecipazione La belta. Ha 
compreso immediatamente tutti gli aspetti ironici che vi sussistono. E un libro di leggero 
persiflage, che attraversa e quasi si difende dalla mia pur viva ammirazione per gli 
strutturalisti, portatori di novita spesso sconvolgenti. Questi intellettuali hanno proposto 
idee importanti, certo non definitive, né potevano esserlo; ma vitali si. Che lui avesse 
capito a fondo questo aspetto del mio scrivere mi ha fatto molto piacere. Ha affermato 
giustamente: “[Zanzotto] sciorina un ininterrotto velo di immagini-simbolo [...] non 
descrive, circoscrive, avvolge, prende, poi lascia”. Infatti il mio € un lavoro 
“inventariale” che raccoglie “inciampando™ i pezzi di un mondo a pezzi, non va avanti 
per colpi gnomici, a differenza del suo che spesso procede in tal modo. Ne La belta la 
sentenza si dissolve nel momento in cui sta formandosi: Montale ha identificato bene 


John Butcher: Le ultime poesie di Montale. Intervistaa A. Zanzotto 331 


questo aspetto. E mi permetto qui di aggiungere un’impressione. Puo darsi che lui avesse 
gia in testa di fare un’ennesima caricatura de “La pioggia nel pineto” di D’Annunzio, ma 
ne La belta ce n’é una mia. E possibile che questa gli abbia richiamato la voglia di 
tornare sul campo scherzando e gli riusci davvero grandiosamente. 

Posso ricordare qui ancora un episodio connesso alle pungenti stilettate che lanciava 
contro Pasolini, forse parzialmente identificabile con “Malvolio”, in cui confluiscono 
parecchi personaggi (d’altra parte anche “Benvolio” non si assicura certo una 
benevolenza dal poeta). Ho assistito ad una scena veramente incredibile. Ero per caso lia 
salutarlo quando é capitato il discorso sulla recensione che Pasolini aveva fatto a Satura 
in cui chiamava Montale “teppista”. Allora é andato su tutte le furie: “Lui ha il coraggio 
di chiamarmi ‘teppista borghese e frequentatore di grandi alberghi’; e pensare che 
guadagna miliardi. Lui non pud farmi la morale, sta con i poteri finanziari, per il cinema”. 
Quella fu una sfuriata, ma realmente c’era tra loro una ruggine, un’incomprensione 
profonda, e i motivi si capiscono. Lo strano é che entrambi, Pasolini e Montale, hanno 
espresso giudizi positivi, diversamente motivati ma molto precisi, a proposito de La 
belta. E devo dire che quel loro contrasto mi addolorava molto. 


Nell’ultima intervista riprodotta ne // secondo mestiere: arte, musica, societa, Lei 
presenta il Suo libro, // galateo in bosco, al poeta che, a sua volta, sfoglia 
I’“Ipersonetto” e, con caratteristico slancio ironico, ricorda: “Io devo averne scritti 
uno o due di sonetti, ma di tipo inglese”. 

Montale non credeva nell’“Ipersonetto”. Lui aveva tradotto egregiamente e ne aveva 
scritto uno, assai famoso, “Gli orecchini”, che si meritd la sottile e particolareggiata 
analisi di D’Arco Silvio Avalle. Montale era ancora dentro |’aura del sonetto che si puo 
variare e rendere pit! liquido, ma salvandone |’antica sacralita. Lui capiva che il mio 
“Ipersonetto” era proprio la forzatura, il portare al limite, ’autocontraddizione nel genere 
del sonetto. Pit tardi mi ha detto: “Non credo che tu possa trovare grandi consensi con 
questo tipo di componimento”. Capivo benissimo le sue riserve e anche la sua 
franchezza. Devo qui ribadire che la generosa attenzione da lui sempre manifestata per il 
mio lavoro, e la sua amicizia cosi fertile di motivi culturali ed etici sono state per me 
fondamentali. Montale vive nella mia memoria che gli sara perennemente grata. In tutta 
la sua produzione terminale persiste il sentimento di un irrimediabile dolore, la sofferenza 
di uno che amava moltissimo la vita e ne era stato in qualche modo deprivato, la 
coscienza delle aggressive contraddizioni insite nella esistenza e nella realta, 
incontrollabili anche da una forte “natura stoica”, quale pur era la sua. 


John Butcher, University College London 


- 


if 


7 





ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 


Edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the collaboration of 
Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Albert N. Mancini, 
Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 


Paolo Cherchi. L’alambicco in biblioteca: distillati rari. Ed. Francesco Guardiani and 
Emilio Speciale. Il Portico, Collana diretta da Antonio Piromalli, 116. Ravenna: 
Longo, 2000. Pp. VIII+374. 
The most brilliant American critics are attracted by new ideas that, like shooting stars, 
appear and disappear. They have debated and tested the more extreme aspects of the 
theory of literature. In their frantic quest after a New Jerusalem they continue to produce a 
plethora of highly sophisticated publications that are appreciated and imitated in the 
academic world. To tell the truth, many essays and books are not founded on solid 
scholarship, and show a limited command of the sources. But who cares about the sources? 
Nobody wants to read those boring seventeenth-century volumes, full of Latin and Greek, 
which were familiar to writers like Milton and Johnson, but are terra incognita to 
professors who are familiar only with the bilingual texts of the Loeb Classical Library. Yet 
those quaint books exist, and their contents can modify our perception of the past and thus 
affect literary criticism. Anthony Grafton warned that the huge production in Latin of 
Elizabethan and Jacobean England cannot be ignored (see A. Grafton, “A Lost Latin 
World: New Maps for the Terra Incognita of the English Renaissance,” Times Literary 
Supplement, March 8 1991: 3-4). Yet critics continue to play with ideas, leaving aside 
solid research, because they no longer believe in objective truth. Strangely enough, they 
still weave, like Tennyson’s Lady of Shalott, “by night and day / a magic web with colors 
gay,” without noticing that the very foundations of their ivory towers are being sapped by 
the war against postmodern trends that is being waged at the epistemological level, an 
important development, which was discussed even in mass media (see Edward Rothstein, 
“Coming to Blows Over How Valid Science Really Is,’ The New York Times [National 
Edition], July 21, 2001: A 15 and A 17). 

Paolo Cherchi is not a Lady of Shalott figure, as appears from the book under review, 
a substantial collection of twenty-five essays, followed by a “Bibliografia degli scritti di 
Paolo Cherchi, 1966-1999,” edited by E. Speciale (345-55). Judging from the introductory 
piece, entitled “Da Marx a chi?” (7-14), we can safely say that Romance philology 
protected him from the intoxicating trends of modern criticism: “se dovessi collocare il 
mio lavoro di questi anni, non esiterei a piazzarlo nel campo della filologia” (11). First of 
all, this “Festschrift all’incontrario” — such is the humorous definition of its editors, F. 
Guardiani and E. Speciale — is a model of intelligent and solid philology that honors 
Italian studies in America. Second, its chapters, based on articles published in various 
periodicals and miscellanies, offer not only intelligent insights into an impressive array of 
topics, embracing the major Romance literatures from the Middle Ages to the twentieth- 
century, but also invite reflection on the twentieth-century intellectual history of Italy and 
America. Allow me to elaborate on the latter with the understanding that, in this age of 
global interests, patriotism, which Dr. Samuel Johnson defined “the last refuge of a 


Annali d'Italianistica 19 (2001) 


334 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


scoundrel,” is out of place in literary studies. 

Cherchi candidly states that he was a Marxist in the early sixties, when he was a 
teaching assistant in the Department of Italian of the University of California at Berkeley, 
and that he was shocked by the lack of interest in political topics exhibited by American 
academicians. He cannot be blamed for this reaction since he came from Italy, a highly 
politicized country, where many prominent intellectuals, after World War II, openly 
professed to prefer Soviet Russia to America because they were frustrated by the defeat of 
Fascism, which had been their natural habitat for more than two decades. The Free Speech 
movement reinforced Cherchi’s Marxism. As a junior Berkeley faculty member, I met 
students and professors who believed that the Berkeley turmoil was the dawn of a global 
Communist revolution. Happily, the events did not warrant this pessimistic diagnosis, and 
the Western world proved to be more vital than the Eastern “popular democracies” which 
ran out of steam and collapsed. This process was a good medicine that cured many 
intellectuals of their extravagant political ideas. 

In the field of criticism, the appeal of Marxism gradually faded in the sixties, and 
gave way to Structuralism and various brands of literary theory, developed in France and 
America, that denied the relevance of value judgments. As a consequence of this dramatic 
change, Cherchi was left with a “fastidio profondo per chi strumentalizza la letteratura” 
(9). Moreover, he maintains that “le vicende di questi ultimi decenni hanno ridato prestigio 
alla filologia” (10). I fully agree with this conclusion, which goes hand in hand with 
Cherchi’s down-to-earth and commonsense approach to the fireworks of avant-garde 
criticism. The text should be the primary concern of the critic, while the methodology is to 
be adopted or discarded according to its capacity to help us understand the text: “[...] il 
metodo deve essere dettato dal testo che leggiamo” (11). It is wrong to use the text in order 
to demonstrate the validity of a theory of literature: “Una lettura ¢ ragionevolmente ‘sana’ 
quando non costituisce la verifica di un metodo di lettura, ma quando il metodo é dettato 
dalla lettura stessa” (11). An excellent instance of the rewarding results obtained by 
concentrating on texts and intertextual links is Cherchi’s Polimatia di riuso: Mezzo secolo 
di plagio 1539-1589 (Rome: Bulzoni, 1998). 

Cherchi rightly laments that “i nomi di Bédier, di Spitzer 0 anche di Auerbach o 
perfino di Curtius [...] sono pressoché scomparsi dall’orrizonte critico” (9). Indeed E. R. 
Curtius’s European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages, highly regarded by first-rate 
scholars such as Maurice Valency, Harry Levin, and Francis Fergusson, was the backbone 
of American humanities, thanks to Willard R. Trask’s translation for the Bollingen Series, 
first published in 1953, while E. Auerbach’s writings generated a new Dante scholarship 
through C. S. Singleton’s school (see R. Caputo, “Dante e l’America, Dante in America. 
Alle origini della critica dantesca americana contemporanea: Singleton e Auerbach,” in 
Dante oggi, Convegno di studi, Latina, 18 maggio 1991, Anzio: De Rubeis, 1994, 57-77). 
Auerbach’s and Curtius’s ideas were certainly absorbed by Cherchi, while he was still a 
graduate student at Berkeley, from the late Enrico De Negri’s lectures on Dante and 
Romanticism, which were in line with the best German criticism. Cherchi’s point of 
departure, despite his initial infatuation with Gramsci, was similar to that of other 
American scholars, who later followed a different course under the influence of Jung’s 
theory of archetypes and Kuhn’s epistemology, both of which conspired to discredit 
traditional philology, supposedly based on the so-called “objective fallacy.” 

Now Cherchi may seem an old fashioned scholar, vis-a-vis the eclecticism of the 
majority of his colleagues, who are ready to embrace the latest fad: the globalization 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 335 


theory, created by Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri (see Emily Eakin, “What is the Next 
Big Idea? The Buzz Is Growing,” The New York Times, July 7, 2001: Al5 and A17). 
Cherchi does not openly say why so many American scholars keep adopting ever new 
methods instead of dedicating all of their energies to solid research. However, Cherchi lets 
the reader understand, in a very polite way, that the quest for novelty goes hand in hand 
with a reluctance to do hard work: “[...] un lavoro che richiede pazienza, letture, 
erudizione, conoscenze linguistiche, e capacita interpretative notevoli” (11). This is 
certainly true. Let me add that Cherchi is atypical in the American scene, not because he 
lacks originality but because his colleagues, who are praised for theirs, lack the skills to do 
serious work. Too many incompetent professors, able to read only English translations, 
have filled all the available positions and feed the market with their clones. It is not 
surprising that the situation of the humanities is precarious, since precious money is more 
profitably spent for scientific and technical purposes. 

Following in the steps of eminent scholars such as Cesare Segre and Maria Corti, 
Cherchi guides the reader in a maze of different literary traditions. The book under review 
is initiated with a piece on Provengal literature, “L’enciclopedia nel mondo dei trovatori: il 
Breviari d’amor di Matfre Ermengau” (25-37), which appeared in the proceedings of the 
conference on “L’enciclopedismo medievale,” held at San Gimignano in 1992. Three 
essays are dedicated to various aspects of Spanish literature: “Quattro glosse al Libro de 
buen amor” (143-58), “Onomastica nella Celestina: tragicommedia del sapere inutile” 
(159-71), and “Il Viage a Italia di Leandro Moratin” (273-85). The other chapters deal 
with Italian literature and its fortune, a topic that Cherchi continues to illustrate with 
original contributions (see, for instance, his “Il Veglio di Creta nell’interpretazione del 
Tostado: fortuna di Dante e / 0 Boccaccio nella Spagna del Quattrocento,” L ‘Alighieri, 40, 
n.s. 14 [July-December 1999]: 87-98). All the studies included in the book under review 
are of high intellectual level. We must be grateful to the editors and the subscribers who 
made possible the publication of this first-rate volume. 

Gustavo Costa, University of California, Berkeley 


Massimo Lollini. J/ vuoto della forma: scrittura, testimonianza e verita. Genova: 
Marietti, 2001. Pp. viii + 347. 
Il yuoto della forma: scrittura, testimonianza e verita is a most welcome result of Lollini’s 
decade-long meditation on the complex philosophical issues associated with testimonial 
writing. Through four main sections, each comprising numerous sub-chapters, Lollini 
effortlessly explores the problematic truth-value that emerges from the texts of an 
impressive number of philosophers, poets, and novelists. Focusing, in particular, on works 
by Serra, Gramsci, Levi, and Calvino, Lollini convincingly argues that they provide a 
viable alternative to the extreme poles of metaphysical idealism and symbolic skepticism. 
More specifically, these are works that, although traversed by the limits of representation, 
or, in the words of Serra, by the “vuoto della forma” that inhabits all symbolization, still 
render testimony to the traumatic events that have shaped private and public history. By 
so doing, they ultimately come to exemplify a practice of writing as a necessary, but 
always limited and provisional quest for meaning and truth. 

The first section of the book, titled “Dalla stella della scrittura alla stella della 
redenzione,” outlines the main objectives of the volume. In a clear and accessible manner, 
Lollini also revisits the ample territory of testimonial writing from antiquity to the modern 


336 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


era, thereby giving the reader a broad description of how such writing has evolved through 
the centuries. In the first chapter of this section, “Scrittura e testimonianza in Platone,” 
Lollini addresses works by Plato. He describes how the Platonic dialogues already 
foreground a paradoxical relationship to symbolization. While dialogues, such as Phaedo, 
emphasize the limits of writing, other works, particularly those dedicated to narrating the 
teachings of Socrates, assign a truth-value to philosophical and rationalist writing. Hence, 
Lollini concludes that the Platonic search for truth cannot be separated from an awareness 
of the inadequacy of any form of testimony. The result of this condition is a mode of 
writing that, without abdicating the representation of experience and the quest for 
knowledge upon which such representation is predicated, also comes to reveal the absence 
of a full subject and of finite, absolute explanations. 

While the Platonic tradition establishes, from a philosophical and _ rationalist 
perspective, the problematic issues associated with testimonial writing, the Judaic one 
develops a prophetic concept of testimonial truth. As Lollini argues in a second chapter of 
this section, “La Bibbia e Agostino,” prophetic testimony cannot be rationally proven and 
needs to be accepted as a form of divine revelation. Close readings of selected passages 
from Luke, John, and Paul substantiate Lollini’s claim. However, Lollini’s analyses of 
Paul’s Second Letter to the Corinthians reveal that even religious testimony, much like the 
philosophical one, comes to inscribe the inadequacy of writing. Such inadequacy explains 
why the texts belonging to the tradition of biblical exegesis contain many references to the 
difficulty of translating the divine word and describing the divine glory. This chapter 
concludes by exploring an exemplary case of ineffability, notably the one included in the 
ninth book of Augustine’s Confessions. 

The third chapter of this section is dedicated to Dante. Titled “Dante e la stella della 
scrittura,” this chapter describes how Dante’s development of a poetic-rationalist model of 
writing is the product of a synthesis between Greek and Christian notions of testimonial 
writing. However, for Lollini, Dante also enriches the established tradition by placing 
emphasis on the role of the individual in acts of testimony. Lollini analyzes this role in his 
exemplary reading of the final vision of Paradiso, where Dante, vainly seeking to 
understand the mystery of Incarnation through the description of the human face of Christ, 
finally acknowledges the absence of adequate words to represent the sacred space. While 
such absence gives truth-value to Dante’s own, individual testimony, his desire to publicly 
relate his experience further suggests that a newly formed nexus between individuality and 
literary testimony has been established for Romance literatures. 

The importance of the individual in the act of testimony is also present in works by 
Petrarch and Galileo, which are analyzed by Lollini in the fourth and fifth chapters, 
respectively. The fourth chapter, titled “‘In guisa d’uom che pensi et pianga et scriva’: 
Petrarca,” focuses on those moments where Petrarch voices the inadequacy of his own 
writing by foregrounding how the other, personified in the face of Laura, remains 
irreducible to the order of representation. For Lollini, such inadequacy reveals why the 
description of Laura is not only developed through the formulae of conventional lyric 
poetry, but is often accompanied by an ethical reflection on how the experience of the 
individual always exceeds the boundaries of symbolization. The fifth chapter, titled 
“Galileo e la faccia della luna,” addresses Galileo’s Dialogo dei massimi sistemi. Here 
Lollini argues that the importance of the new science resides not only in having freed 
human observation from the prejudices of scholastic philosophy, but also in having 
assigned a truth-value to the empirical observations of nature carried out by the individual. 





“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 337 


The last chapter of this section, “La stella della redenzione: \a nozione di 
testimonianza nella cultura neoebraica,” contrasts the Western tradition of testimonial 
writing with the Judaic one. Lollini contends that, in Judaic culture, testimony is not the 
result of an intellectual quest or of a mystical vision but, rather, depends upon the 
obedience to a divine command. From here stems not only the importance of listening, as 
opposed to the act of seeing, but also the different notion of subjectivity developed by 
Judaic writers. An excursion into the work of contemporary Jewish thinkers, including 
Franz Rosenzweig and Emmanuel Lévinas, substantiates Lollini’s claims. 

Having thereby established the historical development and specificity of the Western 
paradigm of testimonial writings, Lollini dedicates the remaining two sections of his 
volume to an exploration of works from the 20" century. While the second section, titled 
“Il testimone, la guerra e il carcere,” is dedicated to Serra and Gramsci, the third section, 
titled “Etica della scrittura e testimonianza,” focuses on Levi, Celan, and Calvino. 

In the first four chapters of the second section, Lollini discusses a number of works 
by Renato Serra and firmly establishes this writer’s importance in a context shaped by 
Croce’s metaphysics. While, for Croce, writing is the manifestation of the ideal, Serra, 
through the philosophy of Kant and Shopenhauer, recognizes that there exist elements of 
experience that remain irreducible to narration. However, Serra’s recognition does not 
bring him to a position of nihilism, but, rather, prompts him to accept the inevitability of 
both the limits and the necessity of writing. Close readings of Serra’s Partenza di un 
gruppo di soldati per la Libia (1912) and Esame di coscienza di un letterato (1914) 
establish the validity of Lollini’s claims. Furthermore, these readings also reveal Serra’s 
crucial role in anticipating some of the reflections of Gramsci. 

The discussion of Gramsci occupies the last two chapters of this section. In 
“L’importanza dell’ombra: il giovane Gramsci, Serra e la cultura del primo Novecento,” 
Lollini argues that the influence of Serra on Gramsci’s work is revealed in a number of 
Gramsci’s early articles. These articles include “La luce che si é spenta” and “Socialismo 
e cultura,” where Gramsci makes an ethical claim for testimonial modes of writing. As it 
is well known, this mode of writing will be concretized in Gramsci’s own Lettere dal 
carcere, which is analyzed in the chapter “II testimone invisibile: le Lettere dal carcere di 
Antonio Gramsci." Perhaps one of the most exemplary works among 20" century- 
testimonies, Gramsci’s Lettere is the focus of extensive analyses on the part of Lollini, 
who, among other things, explores Gramsci’s desperate attempt to establish an effective 
communication at a time when the integrity of his own subjectivity was being severely 
tested. A cogent reading of Gramsci’s notes on Dante’s tenth canto of /nferno becomes 
Lollini’s primary evidence of Gramsci’s painful realization that no representation will ever 
be capable of expressing the trauma of the subject. This awareness might explain why 
Gramsci’s project to tie politics to the ethical and personal dimensions of life in an 
autobiography was never realized. 

The issue of the subject in relation to testimonial writing is again addressed by Lollini 
in the third section of his volume. Titled “Etica della scrittura e testimonianza,” this 
section is dedicated to works by Levi, Celan, and Calvino. In the first chapter, “Primo 
Levi e Paul Celan,” Lollini analyzes Levi’s and Celan’s differing responses to the 
experience of the Holocaust. While Levi’s work, from Se questo é un uomo (1947) and La 
tregua (1963), up to La chiave a stella (1978) and Se non ora, quando? (1982), is 
informed by a deep-seated commitment to produce testimony to the catastrophe, Celan’s 
poetry increasingly tends to foreground the impossibility of doing so. Such a process is 


338 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


brought to completion by collections such as Atemwende (1967) and Fadensonnen (1968). 
Here Celan’s poetry renounces meaningful communication and begins to exhibit the 
aphasic expressions of an anti-writing. Nonetheless, as Lollini argues, despite the different 
visions that inform the work of these writers, Levi remained very interested in Celan’s 
poetry. In fact, he not only sought to explore the reasons for Celan’s obscurity, but 
detected a coincidence between the poet’s abdication of communication and his desire for 
non-being, expressed not only by his writing, but also by his dramatic decision to commit 
suicide. 

The remaining chapters on Levi are focused upon the relationship between science 
and literature. Lollini explores how Levi, despite a desire to communicate, was always 
skeptical of monological truths. Such truths encompassed, for Levi, not only literary, but 
also scientific knowledge. As in the case of Leopardi, for Levi, scientific knowledge 
increased the mystery of the world and forced the poetic vision into that state of radical 
uncertainty exemplified by Levi’s “Plinio” and “Autobiografia.” 

The last three chapters of this section are dedicated to Calvino. Lollini not only 
suggests that the relationship between science and literature was also fundamental to 
Calvino’s work, but he also argues that it developed according to the philosophical 
perspective of phenomenology. This perspective brought Calvino to reject the idealist 
division of subject and object upon which scientific inquiry from Descartes onwards 
depends. Further, it also led him to acknowledge the irreducible opacity of the world. A 
discussion of Calvino’s Palomar (1983) and Racconti per i cinque sensi (1971-1984) 
complements Lollini’s reading. However, as has been the case in other examples of 
testimonial writings discussed in this volume, in Calvino’s work, the complexity of 
experience never coincided with a refusal of referential expression. Rather, it developed 
into an ethics of writing, specifically into a meditation upon the relative and partial truth- 
value of human representation. Such truth-value was evident in Calvino’s more 
autobiographical works, particularly in the short stories ‘La strada di San Giovanni” 
(1962) and “Ricordo di una battaglia” (1974). 

A fourth section, titled “Sintesi, conclusioni e aperture: verso un’etica del soggetto,” 
reprises some of the most important arguments addressed earlier on, and provides a brief 
conclusion to the volume. 

In summary, with his latest book, Lollini offers a clear and sophisticated account of 
very complex philosophical issues. While Lollini’s description of testimonial writings 
from antiquity to the modern era establishes a solid historical paradigm, his analysis of 
20'"-century testimonies foregrounds the paradoxes of a mode of symbolization that, while 
revealing its inevitable inadequacy, also expresses its own compelling necessity. Finally, 
then, thanks to Lollini’s subtle discussion, not only do writers as diverse as Serra, Gramsci, 
Levi, and Calvino, converge in a shared ethical effort to provide some sense to the chaos 
of the world of personal and public history, but reveal that a position mid-way between the 
weak subjectivity of the deconstructionist project and the strong Subject of metaphysical 
idealism remains a viable possibility for future literature. 

An extremely intelligent book, Lollini’s // vuoto della forma will undoubtedly 
become an important addition to the existing bibliography on the topic. Furthermore, 
because Lollini’s solid philosophical analyses are always corroborated by insightful close 
readings, the volume will most certainly be a very valuable work for scholars of Italian 
literature and culture. 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 339 


Thomas E. Peterson. The Rose in Contemporary Italian Poetry. Gainesville: UP of 
Florida, 2000. Pp. 342. 

The theme of the rose, a perennial favorite of scholars of Italian poetry, has been the focus 
of numerous essays and volumes, including the curious example of Giovanni Pozzi’s 
renegotiation of that itinerary undertaken by Francesco De Sanctis (in his Storia della 
letteratura italiana) in which, according to Giacomo Debenedetti, “il professor De Sanctis 
cammina attraverso i secoli centrali della letteratura italiana [...] con una rosa in mano” 
(La rosa in mano al professore, Fribourg, Edizioni universitarie, 1974, 143-144). If De 
Sanctis takes up the rose in tracing “la splendida e sconcertante avventura dell’arte 
nell’amara stagione del declino” (9) from Lorenzo il Magnifico to Giambattista Marino, 
then Thomas Peterson, in his recent The Rose in Contemporary Italian Poetry, follows this 
most privileged flower in its many incarnations through a century of rapid evolution and 
innovation. Whereas De Sanctis’s rose ultimately constitutes a single theme, Peterson 
allows his to remain as supple and varied as contemporary poetry itself: “Once relatively 
constant as a rhetorical convention, the commonplace is now a chimera functioning at 
different moments in different hands as image, symbol, or theory, expressing tonalities 
from naive to sophisticated, from the ironic and contentious to the self-conscious and 
exquisite” (1). 

In the preface to the volume, Peterson recalls Walter Benjamin’s temptation to write a 
book consisting entirely of citations, as well as the new method of “drilling” (as opposed 
to “excavating”) and the resulting “forcing of insights” such a project would entail. He 
goes on to liken his own study of the poetic rose to Benjamin’s project: “To study a topos 
is also an act of critical drilling” (vii). In keeping with this notion, Peterson’s commentary, 
at times quite orthodox, at times provocative and corrective of other critics, is often 
intentionally restrained, the book’s sense relying rather upon the “placement or dispositio” 
of the citations — as Hannah Arendt says of Walter Benjamin’s project — “so as not to 
ruin everything with explanations that seek to provide a causal or systematic connection” 
(vii). Peterson acknowledges that such an approach requires that readers “bring powers of 
inference to the poetry and sort through fertile ambiguities” (ix-x). That the author allows 
the occurrences of the rose in contemporary Italian poetry to dictate the book’s 
organization forces us to consider these poets from less common perspectives: alongside 
(and very often in place of) the traditional categories of Twilight, Futurist, Hermetic, and 
Neo-Hermetic poets, we hear also of poets of advent and of otium, as well as encyclopedic, 
apotropaic, and Anacreontic poets. Consequently, names often collocated under, for 
example, the unwieldy term of Hermeticism find their way into fresh and thought- 
provoking categories (Sinisgalli and Gatto, for instance, are by turns encyclopedic, 
Anacreontic, or exemplary of the characteristic of wonder or of the ironic reframing of 
traditional figures of the rose). 

The first chapter, “In the Garden of Italian Literature,” serves as an introduction to the 
presence of the rose within the Italian and romance traditions, as well as to the critical 
approach informing the volume. Peterson notes a crucial shift in poetic practices in the 
early twentieth century that profoundly altered the relation “between poetic form and 
content, between the facts of language and those of theme,” and the consequent need for a 
criticism responding to this situation: “Given the nature of this transition, one cannot rely 
on a single (semiotic, stylistic, linguistic, sociological) means of exegesis. Rather an 
‘endogenous’ criticism is required that is sensitive to a poem’s interpretive needs on a 


340 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


case-by-case basis” (2). This recognition, together with the desire to “minimize the 
importance of ‘lines’” (x), results in a broad selection of poets that incorporates many 
names often omitted from critical surveys of twentieth-century Italian poetry, not to 
mention an impressive sampling of dialect poets, such as Salvatore Di Giacomo, Giacomo 
Noventa, Achile Serrao, Biagio Marin, Franco Scataglini, and Abino Pierro. 

The subsequent chapters are organized around one or two central concepts, a few of 
which include: the pairing of roses and violets in relation to the problem of wonder in 
poets such as D’Annunzio, Gozzano, and Sinisgalli, as well as in lesser known poets like 
Giovanni Testori, Carlo Della Corte, and Michelangelo Corviello (“Roses and Violets, or 
the Problem of Wonder’); the coexistence of the themes of play and illness — what 
Peterson terms the “patholudic” — in, among others, Negri, Saba, and Giudici (“The 
Pathetic and Mannerist Rose”); the modern notion of the Word and a poetic voice that 
emerged after World War II, exemplified by the works of Bertolucci, Sereni, and Zanzotto, 
whose “Word” is encyclopedic insofar as it contains simultaneously “all the acceptations 
from which a relational discourse might have required it to choose” (“The Encyclopedic 
Rose,” 161); the “idea” of Liguria, which is in fact multiple, ranging from the conflation of 
“the subtle and the coarse, the genial and the ingenious,” to the contrast between the more 
uniform center and a “barbarous” periphery, to the opposition of the individual against the 
“conformisms” of the large institutions of religion (“The Idea of Liguria” 128-29). 

Together with this extensive array of Italians are the names of several poets from the 
European poetic tradition. Thus, the third chapter, “Le Mystére d’un Nom,” traces the 
figure of the rose in modern French poetry, from Gérard de Nerval to Yves Bonnefoy. 
Chapter six, “The Votive and Hermetic Rose,” is framed by the examples of Rainer Maria 
Rilke and Paul Celan. Rilke’s prolific use of the rose introduces a discussion of “a host of 
Italian poets whose prayer, including secular prayer, engages the rose of sacrament as a 
votive object” (107), and Celan’s rose “expresses a transformation of archaic religious 
objects, icons, and rituals into a form of spirituality that is negative and catastrophic” 
(107). Similarly, ChaptersSeven, “The Anacreontic Rose,” weaves a connection with 
Spanish poets Jorge Guillén and Federico Garcia Lorca, who, writing in the spirit of the 
Anacreonta, employ “a willfully vague area of poetic discourse, inclusive of sexual 
caprices as well as the gnostic philosophy of its namesake. Laconic but Arcadian, the 
Anacreontic poet regales in the luxurious and exquisite, and possesses a heightened sense 
of the sensual and melic qualities of the poetic word” (111). 

The use of figurative language, of course, touches on the problem of rhetoric, whose 
role is to persuade and lend coloring and conviction. Chapter nine, “Of Rarefaction and 
Rhetoric,” asks the question: “But what occurs in an era when [...] persuasion and rhetoric 
can be construed as conflictive opposites? Or how, given the lexical nature of our study, 
does the evasion or deformation of a lexeme signal a change in literary sensibility?” (144). 
The poets under discussion respond to this situation in one of two ways: with a “rhetoric of 
rarefaction,” or the “rarefaction of rhetoric.” While the latter response consists simply in 
the avoidance of formulaic motifs, “seemingly undertaken for reasons of spiritual rigor and 
austerity,” the former involves the displacement, negation or ironic retroping of the dead 
metaphor of the rose — of the “canonical flower that stands for pulchritude, youth, 
religious devotion, or sexual passion” (156) — in order to achieve the force and depth of a 
living metaphor. An example of this approach is Montale’s reframing, in “La danzatrice 
stanca” (from Diario del '72; in general, Montale avoids the figure of the rose), of Parini’s 
famous lines, “Torna a fiorir la rosa / che pur dianzi languia.~ lines echoed as well by 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 341 


Paolo Valesio in the poem, “Effare l’in-fame,” from Prose in poesia. This recourse to the 
second-hand rose is an instance of what Harold Bloom has referred to as “the interpretive 
and revisionary power of a poetry perpetually battling its own belatedness” (147). 

The imperative of having to position oneself with regard to an established literary 
culture is also keenly felt by writers familiar with the experience of marginalization. 
Chapter eleven, “The Feminine Voice, and Other Alibis,” examines the poets of the 
feminine voice, who aim at “creating an alibi or space apart from the coteries of the male- 
dominated literary world, and the ‘pseudo-nature’ of that world” (185). The alibi, a “result 
not of a flight, but of dialogue and questioning” (204), situates the feminine voice 
“elsewhere” with respect to the assertive verbal armature of the masculine linguistic space. 
Peterson begins his survey of the feminine voice, quite understandably, with Sibilla 
Aleramo, then turns to “an example of a male poet with a feminine voice” (187). He finds 
in Diego Valeri (Paolo Volponi, Roberto Sanesi also figure in Peterson’s discussion of the 
feminine voice) that lexical indeterminacy and contingency that allow him to resist “the 
rationalistic and formalistic tendencies of much twentieth-century verse” (189). 

Amelia Rosselli appears not among the poets of the feminine voice, but in the 
concluding chapter, “The Otiose Rose,” where Peterson looks at the rose in poems 
conceived of as contemplative, theoretical enterprises. In his discussion of Rosselli, 
Peterson ties together a number of the strings that run throughout the volume, and 
demonstrates an outstanding sensitivity to the complex nature of the poet’s work. Here the 
author himself eases the rapid pace maintained through much of the book, a pace 
determined by the range of material treated in a relatively small space. Indeed, many poets 
are accorded little more than a brief paragraph, and consequently one often wishes 
Peterson were able to devote to them as much attention as he does to those few discussed 
at greater length. 

In citing Maria Luisa Spaziani’s phrase, “nebuloso mistero da vincersi a ristroso” 
(from the poem “Quell’uomo-stella”), as an “inadvertent description of the rose topos 
itself. which must be denied in order to be validated” (196), Peterson recognizes a 
fundamental trait of the modern relationship to fopoi in general. The phrase evokes as well 
what faces the critic engaged in clearing up the mysteries of textual interaction: and, in 
fact, the reader of The Rose in Contemporary Italian Poetry might wish that Peterson had 
ventured further in this direction, following the reverse path of influence and elaborating 
on the interrelations among texts. Many of the poetic fragments examined remain just that 
— isolated fragments — and the reader is left to formulate many of those “causal and 
systematic connection[s]” toward which Peterson professes a certain skepticism in his 
Preface. Nevertheless, The Rose in Contemporary Italian Poetry is an extremely rich and 
challenging book, and goes a long way toward redeeming the study of literary fopoi. It is 
both a welcome source and model for the scholar interested in such studies, as well as a 
“rosa dei venti” for the general reader on the high seas of twentieth-century Italian poetry. 

Viktor Berberi, /ndiana University 


Florinda M. Iannace, ed. Maria Vergine nella letteratura italiana. Stony Brook, NY: 
Forum Italicum, 2000. Pp.388. 

The Blessed Virgin Mary, or Mary of Nazareth, is a complex figure in the contemporary 
academic scene, subject to, and of, diverse interpretations. For the traditional Catholic 


342 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


academic, she may be primarily a co-redemptrix, object of devotion as the earthly mother 
of Jesus Christ; for the Marxist or the atheist, she may be among the most visible and 
fertile symbols of the collective illusion of religion; for the liberal feminist, she may be a 
dangerous icon of patriarchal domination and female subordination to the role of mother 
and wife: for the feminist or liberation theologian or believer, she may be an example of 
full humanity achieved against all the odds of an oppressive, colonized context. 

Among these multiple figures, the first is the dominant one in the essays collected in 
Florinda lannace’s Maria Vergine nella letteratura italiana. These generally short pieces 
(there are over thirty of them in the admittedly long volume) were originally presented as 
lectures at a congress at Fordham University entitled “The Virgin Mary in Italian 
Literature.” The topics of the essays span many writers over several centuries: the Middle 
Ages and Renaissance are discussed in essays on Jacopone, Dante, Petrarca, Boccaccio, 
Vittoria Colonna, and Torquato Tasso, while articles on Manzoni, Tommaseo, Papini, De 
Roberto, Pirandello, David Maria Turoldo, Elsa Morante, Giovanni Vannucci, Giuseppe 
De Luca, Clemente Rebora, Eduardo De Filippo, and Joseph Tusiani deal with the 
nineteenth and twentieth centuries. (Tusiani, a surprising presence in the book, is an 
Italian-American poet who writes in English and comments as critic — he is the author of 
the essay on himself — on his own poetic production.) Moreover, there are some general 
survey essays on Mary in Catholic theology and in Italian literature. Several different 
interpretive methods are used in the essays: there are stylistic, psychoanalytic (Jungian, 
Kristevan, and Lacanian), and historical approaches, as well as biographical and 
devotional readings. 

Like the chronological frame and the interpretive methodologies, the quality of the 
essays 1s also wide-ranging: while some, more traditionally devout critics may find the 
pious tone used in many of the essays appealing, many readers will be put off by a heavy 
rhetoric likely to discourage not only non-believers (“i critici miscredenti,” as one of the 
contributors hastily describes them, 177), but also non-traditional believers like myself, 
from entertaining a dialogue with the critics. This hagiographic approach is what we read 
in the introduction to the volume, where we find no mention of a more simpatica Virgin 
Mary, the Mary of Nazareth evoked, for example, by some contemporary theologians. 
Many of the essays abound in platitudes, others are not much more than an introduction to 
an author, a summary of texts, a compilation of quotations with minimal critical 
intervention. Or, conversely, there are sweeping generalizations such as: “la letteratura € 
ogni espressione che aiuta a conoscere |!;uomo in quanto essere vivente” (2); or 
“Mancando un’esperienza profondamente religiosa, tante espressioni artistiche a soggetto 
mariano somigliano a studi 0 esercizi ‘occasionati’ dal riferimento a Maria pit’ che a 
creazioni ispirate” (53). Let me also note, while I dwell on this negative paragraph, that the 
copy-editing of the volume leaves much to be desired, at times even impeding a clear 
reading of the text (the year 432 is placed for instance in the third century, 69). 

That having been said, the volume includes several solid traditional literary readings 
— | am thinking, for example, of the essays on Dante by Walter Mauro and Giuseppe Di 
Scipio — as well as some veritable gems. Although it bears no connection with the 
literature invoked in the collection’s title, Father Avery Dulles’s essay on the role of the 
Virgin Mary in Catholic theology is a useful, clear, and inclusive survey of Mary’s 
interpretations in the second part of the twentieth century. | was happy to find it at the 
beginning of the book, and disappointed that many of the subsequent essays did not 
display an awareness of the breadth of interpretations so vividly presented by Father 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 343 


Dulles himself. The most insightful of the three essays which pay attention to sexual 
difference, Rinaldina Russell’s work on Vittoria Colonna, is a well-written and original 
piece which explores Colonna’s connection with the spiritua/i through an analysis of her 
writings on the Virgin Mary. In these texts, “Mary becomes a figura of the possible 
coming together of the human and the divine” (130), a union central to Colonna’s 
existential and poetic quest. For Colonna, and for Torquato Tasso as well, Mary is a figure 
who above all else represents a point of juncture between humanity and divinity. This 
connecting role is highlighted in Giuseppe Mazzotta’s contribution on Tasso’s “Le lagrime 
della Beata Vergine,” an absolutely brilliant piece, and all too short. In little over three 
pages, Mazzotta evokes, with a critical prose that is itself highly poetic, a meditation on 
Mary’s tears as they incarnate the impossible desire to (re)connect the mother’s body and 
the son’s pain, maternity and death. Thus, Tasso’s link between sorrow and thought is also 
the link between pain and philosophy, strikingly allegorized in Mary’s tears. Maria Nicolai 
Paynter’s and Ernesto Livorni’s essays on David Maria Turoldo are both engaging pieces 
which demonstrate that a critic can sensitively analyze the figure of the Virgin Mary in a 
religious literary text and still keep away from pious turns of rhetoric, even as she/he 
respects and adheres to the ethical and theological dimension of the text. Gaetana 
Marrone’s Lacanian reading of Elsa Morante’s Aracoeli stands out in the collection for its 
theoretical sophistication, but unfortunately it mentions only very tangentially the Virgin; 
its inclusion in the collection left me baffled. Finally, | found useful and engaging, as well 
as very well written, Alfredo Luzi’s introduction to the presence of the Virgin Mary in 
twentieth-century Italian poetry. 

Because of the great chronological and interpretive spectrum, no one critic is likely to 
be engaged and profit by all of the essays in Iannace’s collection. What I found annoying 
others may find inspiring, and vice versa. Therefore, | would recommend the volume to 
anyone interested in the topic evoked in the title, or, even more generally, in the 
connection between religion and literature, spirituality and textuality. 

Cristina Mazzoni, University of Vermont 


Letizia Panizza and Sharon Wood, eds. A History of Women’s Writing in Italy. 
Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 2000. 

This book complements Rinaldina Russell’s fine bio-bibliographical /talian Women 
Writers: A Bio-Bibliographical Sourcebook (Greenwood Publishing Group, 1994) and 
Sharon Wood’s /talian Women’s Writing 1860-1994 (Athlone Press, 1994). In these 
works, the authors sketch a broad historical and thematic introduction to women’s 
writings, which is then followed by studies of the main themes present in the works of 
individual authors. Panizza and Wood propose here an overview of seven centuries of 
women writing and the diverse genres in which they simultaneously participated. The 
book is divided into three major historical categories: the Renaissance, Counter- 
Reformation, and seventeenth century; the Enlightenment and Restoration; and the 
Risorgimento and modern Italy, 1850-2000. The historical division allows for the 
inclusion of women’s writings “beyond the conventional genres classed as literature” (1). 
As Wood and Panizza point out in their introduction, writing literature in Italy has always 
assumed a classical education as well as one in Dante, Boccaccio, and Petrarch. Since 
women were largely self-taught and often did not adhere to fixed models or discuss certain 


344 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


themes prevalent in male writers, their writing has largely been underestimated if not 
ignored. The volume includes 19 essays written by women literature and history professors 
from the United Kingdom, North America, and Italy; six essays were translated from 
Italian. In addition to the essays, there is a useful bibliographical guide which gives a brief 
description of the writers discussed, followed by a short list of selected works and critical 
works. All works cited in the essays are included in the bibliography that closes the 
volume and that, admirably, attempts to recognize criticism on Italian women writers from 
both sides of the Atlantic. 

It is not intended here to uncover a tradition of women’s writing, a concept the editors 
deny. Most of the articles are primarily expository in nature. The diverse essays are united 
by their focus on the principal historical and cultural features of the periods the book 
addresses and how they “impinged on what women wrote” (3). Hence, the chapter 
divisions by generic form (i.e., letter writing, lyric poetry, fiction, travel writing, religious 
and devotional writing, etc.) do not indicate analyses of the shaping force of genre. Rather 
these rubrics enable each critic to group together diverse women who used the same form 
to negotiate those various yet ever recurring practical, social, and ideological obstacles to 
writing that made it necessary for each generation of women writers to define and defend 
themselves anew. 

The number of chapters in each section — six essays in Part |; four in Part 2; nine in 
Part 3, including five chapters for the novel form alone — tells at a glance the ebb and 
flow of women’s participation in writing across the centuries. The first major “genre” 
women used was letter writing. Maria Luisa Doglio’s fine article reviews classical 
references which attributed the invention of this literary form to a woman who either 
counseled her sons or spoke of waiting for a loved one. She then discusses Catherine of 
Siena’s religious writings (1365-1380) dictated to a scribe; Alessandra Strozzi’s letters to 
her sons; Vittoria Colonna’s more spiritual and intellectual letters; Veronica Franco’s 
Lettere familiari (1580); and finally actress Isabella Andreini’s Lettere printed in 1608, 
three years after her death. Despite the differences in tone and content of all these letters, 
Doglio finds that “by writing to instruct, women demolish the barrier of submission 
founded on the age-old ban forbidding women to teach” (22). 

In a brief chapter, Letizia Panizza examines the work of women humanists who wrote 
in Latin, such as Laura Cerati and Cassandra Fedele. Although she finds it “hard to trace a 
continuity between these women humanists writing in Latin and their successors writing in 
Italian in the next and later centuries,” the arguments in defense of women, such as those 
of Isotta Nogarola who questioned the Church’s blaming of the fall of man on women 
since “where there is less intellect and less constancy, there is less sin” (27), introduce a 
theme that will be repeated in almost every essay, that is, the need for Italian women 
writers of all generations to defend or deny their sexual difference since they experienced 
the Biblical paradigm for women not only as an account of a fall from innocence but as a 
definition and limitation of their creative abilities. 

Giovanna Rabitti’s chapter on lyric poetry from 1500 to 1650 discusses Vittoria 
Colonna again, along with Veronica Gambara, Gaspara Stampa (whose “titillating” poetry 
has received perhaps “an excess of critical attention” [42]) and ends with Isabella Andreini 
(47-50). Her essay makes it appear that there was a Renaissance for women in the realm of 
lyric poetry brought about by “a shared experience” (50). According to Virginia Cox in 
“Fiction, 1560-1650,” after the 1580s the main model for women’s writing was the 
Petrarchan lyric in its “amatory and spiritual variants” and the /ettere familiari. Cox argues 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 345 


that women’s writing flourished in a rather “long sixteenth century,” since the privileged 
literary idiom of Petrarchism was paradoxically amenable to assimilation by women. The 
Counter Reformation’s moral repression “allowed for the return of pious and decent 
women on stage” in courtly pastoral dramas and for women to write historical poemi 
eroici. In her chapter, “Polemical Prose Writing, 1500-1650,” Letizia Panizza shows how 
the writings of women such as Moderata Fonte, Lucrezia Marinella, and Angela Tarabotti 
shifted the focus of participation in disputation in dialogues on love and friendship 
between men to defenses of women’s moral character and against, as in the case of 
Tarabotti, social and legal injustices. In the same time frame, as Gabriella Zarri writes in 
the concluding chapter of this section, women were also active in religious and devotional 
writing. Although these writings were not published, and so their influence was limited, 
they did reflect the Church’s favorable attitude towards women engaged in mysticism and 
prophetic sanctity. 

Cox finishes her essay saying that at the beginning of the Seicento women seemed 
headed for the mainstream. However, the 18' century provided no mainstream for 
women’s writings. The literary genres in which their writing had flourished were no longer 
viable. Luisa Ricaldone’s essay on the Enlightenment and the Restoration explains the 
sparse participation in writing by women of this era, and the oblivion into which the works 
of previous women writers fell. Moral treatises assigned literature a role in women’s 
education, if it was kept at an “amateur level” (96). Few Italian women earned their living 
by writing or engaging in cultural activities (97). Even fewer wrote novels: Giuseppina di 
Lorena-Carignano wrote some prose romances, but she wrote them in French. Women did, 
as Ricciarda Ricorda writes, start to view travel and travel writing “as a moment of 
physical regeneration [...]” (113). Verina Jones discusses women’s entry into the field of 
literary journalism, ladies’ magazines, and political journalism. Adriana Chemello 
introduces another new genre, literary criticism. Women went from participating in 
debates on the “excellence and dignity of women” (135) to debates on whether or not they 
should be admitted to the study of the arts and sciences. Chemello also discusses the work 
of Luisa Bergalli who, among other things, wrote an anthology of women’s writing 
published in Venice in 1736. 

The final section begins with Silvana Patriarca’s informative essay on women’s 
increased participation in journalism. After 1850, new outlets appeared for women, such as 
the periodical press for which women and men from the petite bourgeoisie could write 
(152). As usual, women joined in debates on the role and function of women’s education, 
and the first “feminist” journal, La donna, was founded by Gualberta Alaide Beccari in 
1868 (154). Patriarca reviews not only the “feminist” views of Beccari, Maria Mozzoni, 
and Jesse Mario White, but also the works of Cesare Lombroso’s daughter, Paola, who 
published ethnography studies on the mentality of the lower classes along with children’s 
books, whom she contrasts with Ida Baccini, a prolific author of articles for literary 
journals and the director of a popular girl’s journal, Cordelia. If Baccini’s work exudes the 
values of the patriotic middle classes (love of order, industriousness, etc.), Lombroso’s 
work seems “less immediately didactic and moralistic” (162). She quotes Delfina Dolza to 
defend Lombroso who, “like the other women, even when they appeared to be writing and 
sharing male opinions, was shaped by a sensitivity to the social context of women’s 
subordination which made the author subvert some of the very convictions of her 
intellectual milieu” (161). Lombroso’s concern with a lack of civic spirit or participation in 
a democracy by people who were uneducated is looked upon as a sort of subversion of the 


346 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


same values of submission she openly espoused. 

The essays on women’s fictional writings — Lucienne Kroha’s “The Novel, 1870- 
1920”; Anna Laura Lepschy’s “The Popular Novel, 1850-1920"; Lucia Re’s “Futurism 
and Fascism”; and Ann Hallamore Caesar’s “The Novel, 1945-1965,” — deal as well with 
how to interpret the overt antifeminism of many women writers and their participation in 
conservative and Fascist genres. Paradoxes abound. Re writes how Futurism’s iconoclasm 
was appealing to many women writers. Under Fascism more women’s works were 
published than ever before. Fascism was “contradictory, ‘imperfect,’ and flexible enough 
to tolerate a wide spectrum of relatively emancipated social and cultural modes of 
behavior and expression” (198). But even women as different as Serao and Aleramo still 
“felt that there was something illegitimate about their writing as if it constituted the 
invasion of a masculine terrain and a betrayal of femininity for which they had to 
constantly apologize” (192). Caesar discusses Anna Banti, Elsa Morante, Natalia 
Ginzburg, Lalla Romano, Anna Maria Ortese, Alba de Céspedes, and Maria Bellonci, all 
of whom were born during or before World War | and were writing during the Fascist era. 
These women are seen as open to more international influences, namely European 
modernism, through their interest in translations (206). Hence the main (sub)genre here is 
that of the memoir/autobiography or the historical novel where History is refracted through 
the experiencing self. Yet these women writers were denounced by feminism’s first 
authors, who threw literature and its compromising structures out. Adalgisa Giorgio, in 
“The Novel, 1965-2000,” focuses on how the writing in her time frame “parallels the shift 
in Italian feminism from the political phase of emancipation and reality to the more 
cultural phase of affirming female difference in the imaginary (psychic) and symbolic 
(linguistic and intellectual) structures of society” (219). Starting with Francesca Sanvitale, 
Maria Corti, and Alice Ceresa as writers who launched an inquiry into the role of gender in 
literature as well as the theme of female genealogies, Giorgio also includes writers from 
the 1990s, thus making this essay a much needed supplement to the one done by this 
reviewer I 1 years ago (“From Margins to Mainstream: Some Perspectives on Women and 
Literature in Italy in the 1980s,° Contemporary Women Writers in Italy: A Modern 
Renaissance, ed. Sante Arico, Amherst: U of Massachusetts P, 1990). Catherine O’Brien 
divides women poets into three major groups: those influenced by symbolism, those 
influenced by the hermetic movement, and finally those who “have advanced the case of 
women’s poetry by achieving equality and recognition,” although their work does not 
differ thematically or stylistically from that of their male counterpart (239). Aine O’ Healy 
reviews women’s contributions to theatre and cinema. 

The collection closes with Sharon Wood’s essay on critical theory, which “seeks to 
place women’s thinking about contemporary aesthetics and cultural practice, theoretical 
considerations on women and literature, and by necessary extension on women and 
language, within a historical or philosophical context” (267). Since Wood dealt with these 
issues in /talian Women Writers, there might have been more of an advantage here if she 
had tried to outline some of the new directions for criticism and theory that these essays, 
with their wealth of information, have now made possible. 

The few misspellings and bibliographical omissions (e.g., Russell’s Feminist 
Encyclopedia of Italian Literature) come as a surprise given the painstaking care the 
editors obviously took to assure an evenness of tone and structure. The genre and time 
divisions work well to show the diversity in women’s writings across the ages as well as to 
highlight the recurring similarities in themes and cultural debates. And the information 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 347 


included here makes it possible for future scholars to realize the volume’s goal, which is, 
in Wood’s words, to “not only rewrite the history of Italian women’s writing, but to 
reshape our reading of Italian literature itself” (280). 

Carol Lazzaro-Weis, Southern University 


Romano Luperini and Pietro Cataldi. La scrittura e l’interpretazione. Storia della 
letteratura italiana nel quadro della civilta e della letteratura dell’Occidente. Vol. 3: Dal 
Naturalismo al Postmoderno, Tomes I-II. Palermo: Palumbo, 1999. 

These two tomes comprise the second half of Luperini and Cataldi’s work, of which the 
first two volumes cover Italian literary history respectively up to and from the Counter- 
Reformation. The last 160 years are thus accorded as much space as the previous six 
centuries. This reflects escalating literary productivity, but also privileges modernity and 
contemporary relevance, to the extent, for instance, that not much less space is given to “il 
classico del secolo” Montale (41 pages), than to Petrarch (43 pages). This is partly the 
effect of not very closely considering earlier Italian literature written in Latin, but more 
largely springs from the pedagogical intent of the work, which is implicitly aimed at 
students in the /icei and in the early years of university. 

For these, it is an excellent guide, and it will also be extremely useful to their teachers 
and, indeed, to academics wishing to home in or update rapidly on unfamiliar areas, as 
well as presenting a reader-friendly introduction to the general lover of Italian literature. 
For such pedagogical and informative purposes, it is admirably laid out. Each “Part”, 
covering a historical period, opens with a long chapter mapping out broad socio-economic, 
intellectual and cultural developments in the western world and in Italy. The subsequent 
chapters respectively cover literary movements and debates within the same period, 
followed by each of the main literary sectors — poetry, narrative, discursive writing, and 
theatre. For each sector, there is a gradual zoom-in from developments in Europe and the 
Americas to those in Italy. Major non-Italian writers — Baudelaire or Tolstoy, T. S. Eliot 
or Kafka — as well as all the major Italian writers have an individual chapter devoted to 
them, and there are also primi piani — chapters devoted to individual works of 
outstanding importance, whether Italian or not. Approximately a third of the text is thus 
given over to things other than Italian literature, in keeping with the principle enunciated 
in the introduction to the whole work, that Italian literature must be seen in the context of 
western culture generally, especially now that the role of the “national” literature in 
shaping the Italian nation-state has been historically superseded. This cultural 
contextualization is aided by rich pictorial and photographic illustration (in somewhat 
muted colours), but popular or mass culture is referred to mainly as a threat to “high” 
literature and culture. 

The work’s pedagogical project is also furthered by numerous chronological tables 
and explanatory windows of schede e informazioni (on historical and cultural phenomena), 
passato e presente (on shifting debates), itinerario linguistico (on specific terms), festi e 
studi (bibliographies). There is a single index of these for the whole work, as also of titles, 
whereas personal names are indexed separately in each volume. The work as a whole is 
thus very close to being the hard copy of a hypertext which could be made available in the 
electronic medium with a much more powerful system of cross-referencing by key terms. 
As the work stands, the index of rubriche throws up useful references to, for example, 


348 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


aura-aureola, dionisiaco, Grande Guerra, i maestri del sospetto, Menabo, Macchiaioli, 
malattia, industria, editoria, fascismo, principio di piacere, elzeviro, zdanovismo. 
However, these take the reader to useful but limited micro-essays on the topic concerned, 
and do not bring together very many of the writers or works that deal, say, with the Great 
War, or industry, or psychoanalysis. There is no lead to women in Italian literature (though 
there are some useful discussions, e.g., on p. 18), but only a small window on femminismo 
which will certainly not satisfy any feminist. Likewise, there is no lead to interesting topics 
such as the figure of the impiegato, clerk or scrivener, or Darwinism, though, again, these 
topics are usefully discussed in connexion with specific authors (including Bersezio, De 
Marchi, Svevo, and Tozzi for the former and Verga, De Roberto, Fogazzaro, and Svevo 
for the latter). Other topics not indexed include: the South, Naples, Sicily, Regionalism. 
For a ready (but more demanding) approach to such dimensions, the student will still have 
to resort to the Einaudi Letteratura Italiana directed by Alberto Asor Rosa. 

The two tomes reviewed here are divided into four parts (11 to 14), taking the account 
from Unification to 1903, then to 1925, next to 1956, and then on to the present. The 
periodization is validated in cultural and literary terms (Naturalism and Symbolism; the 
avant-gardes; “Ermetismo, Antinovecentismo e Neorealismo™; and Experimentalism, Neo- 
Avantgardes and the Postmodern), but predicated in terms of developments in the world 
economy and successive industrial revolutions and class transformations. Thus the year 
1956 is the only one of the chronological divides in this periodization since Unification 
which also coincides with major events of political history. The perspectives and emphases 
are usually powerful and interesting, though, curiously, the period from 1956 to 1990 is 
cosily assigned to “peaceful coexistence,” with little hint of the arms race or M.A.D. 
(mutually assured destruction, the thermonuclear peace posited on the threat of global 
destruction, and the proliferation of proxy wars in the third world), which undoubtedly had 
a massive influence on the intellectual climate and the literary production of the period. 

The authors take joint responsibility for the whoie text, with Cataldi being the main 
author for the chapters on poetry and poets (though he also takes on Gadda, while Luperini 
does Montale), while the chapters on non-Italian and some Italian subjects are the work of 
other specialists. The work as a whole ends with a few pages by Cataldi on “Dario Fo, 
giullare di lotta,” and the phrase “é uno sberleffo pronto a scoppiare contro chi crede di 
poter ridurre in un museo lo slancio di liberta e di giustizia insiti in questo modo di ridere.” 
This phrase gives much-needed uplift, as the overall drift of these two tomes invokes the 
progressive foundering of cultural values and literary art in the welter of mass 
consumerism. The negative perspective climaxes in the last major close-up of a writer, 
devoted to Pasolini and also done by Cataldi. Given that Pasolini died in 1975, there is a 
chronological paradox in treating him so close to the end of a work that brings us right up 
to date. Placing Pasolini in one of the last chapters appears to be justified by assigning him 
to the category of public intellectual and discursive writer — of which he is presented as a 
highly suspect, ambiguous, and somewhat histrionic and self-advertising exemplar. While 
this is not in itself simply wrong, it seems to serve the purpose of signalling a critical 
emptiness in Italian intellectual life, and masks the inadequate treatment given of Pasolini 
as poet, novelist and playwright (his film-making being less pertinent to a history of 
literature). A straightforward concluding chapter on the present scenario in Italian writing 
might have been a better option. It might also have occasioned a discussion as to whether 
belletristic writing has — perhaps temporarily — been ousted from its once central 
position as arbiter of values by more specialized writing in philosophy and the social 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 349 


sciences, economics and the natural sciences, or how it may cope with the tide of 
consumerism. 

This does not amount to an objection, however, against the quality, value, and 
usefulness of this work by Luperini and Cataldi and their colleagues. The skill with which 
the work as a whole is planned and the information and discussion contained in its 
component parts are presented, is generally admirable. There is a certain amount of 
repetition, expanding a concept sometimes up to three times in the treatment of a major 
author or work, but this can be accepted as part of the pedagogical imperative; and there 
are occasional inaccuracies (for instance, the persistent myth that Svevo became a bank 
clerk because of his father’s financial difficulties). But these are very slight blemishes in a 
generally imposing work. Many of the primi piani have striking analyses and theses. 
Luperini’s study of the chronotope of La bufera is one example. Petroni’s study of 
transgressive freedom in La coscienza di Zeno is another. In keeping with the character of 
the work as a literary history, and the aim stated in the introduction of tracing the shifts 
and changes in the literary canon and the role of reading practices (hence the 
“interpretazione” in the title), there is always a strong focus on literary movements and 
debates and on the overall movement (consistently downward, it would seem) in the status 
of writing and of the writer. This can lead to interesting chronological displacements. Thus 
the more “modern” Svevo is placed later than his younger but less advanced 
contemporaries, d’Annunzio and Pirandello. 

In keeping with this strategy, even in the close-ups of individual writers and works, 


an eye is always kept on poetics and écriture, sometimes to the extent — as in the 
treatment of the tre corone of nineteenth-century poetry, Carducci, Pascoli and 
d’Annunzio — that the attention to themes and subject-matter is much reduced, and 


evaluation is based mainly on the writer’s influence on later generations. This is a 
particular instance (or three instances) of a fully defensible revision of the canon compared 
to, say, half a century ago, and, indeed, it goes a great deal further. Luperini’s and 
Cataldi’s — and most people’s — view of the Italian literary pantheon of the first half of 
the last century would be unrecognizable in Alfredo Galletti’s // Novecento of the old 
Vallardi series. Where now is the epic poetry of Ettore Cozzani? It rightly goes 
unmentioned by Luperini and Cataldi, while the accademico d'Italia Alfredo Panzini gets 
no more than a dismissive aside. One might perhaps only remark that more might have 
been offered in a work of this type on the reading public and its tastes (as is done 
occasionally, e.g., with regard to Verga’s works, or the differentiation between high-, 
middle- and low-brow readerships after the Second World War). 

This leads to a more problematical consideration. Heedless of Gramsci, Luperini and 
Cataldi take a line similar to Spinazzola’s regarding popular literature, which is dismissed 
as merely consumeristic. Thus, no attention is paid to Guareschi or Fallaci, who have been 
among the most widely read of Italian writers, both inside and outside Italy. They are 
implicitly excluded from “the literary”. Even works such as // gattopardo and writers such 
as Bassani are belittled, with less than justice done to the debates that have surrounded 
them. 

This aristocratic exclusiveness is most massively evident in the treatment of women 
writers, who are given little space. Even if a claim could be sustained (which I do not 
concede) that as individual writers Italian women rank low in the literary league-table, 
there is at least a case for assessing their collective contribution as a category and the 
feminist critique (whether explicit or oblique) which they mount against the male 


350 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


hegemony. Aleramo gets but one paragraph, Deledda one page, and there is something on 
Banti, Ginzburg, Morante, Manzini, Ortese, Rosselli, Merini, Romano, Maraini, Sanvitale 
and (rather dismissively) on Tamaro, but nothing on de Céspedes, Cialente, Ramondino, 
Duranti, Lagorio or Alberti. Although, early on, we read: “II progetto di emancipazione 
femminile [...] sconvolge il dominante immaginario maschile, abituato alla rassicurante 
scissione tra donna-angelo e donna-prostituta e confortato dal potere che le leggi e le 
consuetudini attribuiscono al capo-famiglia” (18), well over a thousand pages further 
along, we get the aside: “Manca, per esempio, nel nostro paese una produzione letteraria di 
spicco da parte femminile: le donne entrate a far parte del canone del Novecento sono 
poche, né la situazione € cambiata negli ultimi venti-trenta anni” (1082). This is 
accompanied by a pointer to a more forthright scheda on the following page titled “La 
scrittura, la donna e il canone,” which refers to Asor Rosa’s inclusion in the canon of the 
twentieth-century novel of five works by women writers (Aleramo, Cialente, de Céspedes, 
Morante, and Ginzburg), remarking that “ai pil. ¢ sembrato troppo generoso.” Much more 
work clearly needs to be done to modify the canon in this respect. Other omissions seem 
less significant in a work that cannot possibly aim at exhaustive comprehensiveness. 
Gallina and Bertolazzi do get usefully, if briefly, discussed, but we need not be surprised at 
not finding Pompeo Bettini, or even Ettore Cantoni, while the job of selection of course 
becomes harder still with the numerous writers that have surfaced in the last quarter of a 
century. 

This guide is, I think, a must for the library of every university that has students of 
Italian, and is a good buy also for serious individual students and teachers. 


John Gatt-Rutter, La Trobe University (Melbourne) 


Robert Hollander. Dante. A Life in Works. New Haven: Yale UP, 2001. Pp. XIV+222. 

The most striking feature of this brilliantly structured volume is Hollander’s ability to 
condense, in an erudite and at the same time communicative manner, the complexities 
surrounding Dante’s works, their genesis, and dating. While not taking anything for 
granted and not assuming any preconceptions of Dante’s production on the part of the 
reader, Hollander embarks upon a journey of discovery in which the two main /fi/s rouges 
can be identified as the following: Dante’s experimentalism, and the way in which the so- 
called minor works prepare the path for writing the Commedia and contribute to 
understanding it. If we are to accept, as Hollander does, Petrocchi’s dating for the 
Paradiso (1316-1321); and if we respect the internal evidence provided by Monarchia 
1:12.6), where Dante refers to his last cantica (Par. 5:19-24), then we can appreciate how 
the Commedia represents the summa of Dante’s activity. In fact, Dante’s masterpiece 
incorporates elements of his writings that had appeared, albeit in varying degrees, at times 
because of their interruption, in his early works (Vita nuova, Convivio, De vulgari 
Eloquentia) or his later output, mainly in Monarchia. Hollander follows the unfolding of 
such production through a series of approaches that are stimulating and challenging for 
both the uninitiated and those who, although not daring to call themselves Dante scholars, 
are reasonably familiar with Dante’s oeuvre. One such approach is evident from the very 
first pages, where Hollander highlights the importance of the Vita nuova and Dante’s 
experimentalism by looking also at the poems that the author eventually did not include in 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 351 


his first major work; among those poems, one should certainly pay attention to the series 
of poems Dante exchanged with Dante da Maiano, in which casuistic love is analysed. 

The figure of Beatrice in the Vita nuova is evidenced by Hollander in a chapter (12- 
40) rich with scholarly exegesis and cross references to other scholars’ contributions. 
Particularly essential are the notes in this and subsequent chapters, since they not only 
contain a plethora of information but are also an invaluable up-to-date bibliographical 
resource. Hollander does not shun tackling some of the more contentious issues, such as 
that regarding the donna gentile and the function of consolation for Dante’s loss of 
Beatrice, both in verse (VN 38, v. 10) and in prose (38:2); but his main aim is to provide 
the connecting element to the next section in this progressive and, at the same time, 
gnoseological journey for Dante and the reader. The connection is anticipated with a 
discussion of Dante’s “meravigliosa visione” (42:1), which finds a parallel in the context 
expressed by the “quasi rapito” of Convivio 2:7.6 of some years later. Thus, 
chronologically, Hollander turns to the incomplete Convivio, where, as in the Vita nuova, 
prose and poetry combine to express the author’s ideas. The question of style, which 
anticipates the digression on the historical validity of a work of fiction in /nferno 16, is 
certainly of paramount importance, and Hollander treats it also by referring to Purgatorio 
24 (ca. 1311-12?) and to the nature of the dolce stil novo. At that juncture, Dante looks 
back from this vantage point and declares that his “style” began when he composed 
“Donne ch’avete,” around 1288-89. Hollander sustains that this declaration “makes it clear 
that there was no group of poets who adopted the style before that time — if there was 
such a group at all. [...] As far as Dante himself is concerned, all we can say is that he is a 
practitioner, and that at least a poet (the plural, as indicated by ‘le vostre penne’ of Purg. 
XXIV, 58) was, in his opinion, a fellow practitioner” (39). 

Following the chronological order, Hollander takes into consideration first Convivio 
1; and, before looking at the remaining three books, he focuses on the question of style that 
Dante raises in the De vulgari Eloquentia. Convivio | represents an introductory treatise to 
what Dante intended to be an encyclopedic work, and its second part ties in with his 
defense of the Italian vernacular, which will constitute the backbone of the De vulgari 
Eloquentia. Books 2 and 3 of the Convivio confirm that the treatise was composed for a 
reader well acquainted with the Vita nuova, while only Convivio 4 broaches the relatively 
new subject of nobility. Hollander is particularly interested in the fact that both these 
works were interrupted and that, especially with the De vulgari Eloquentia, we have 
missed out on learning “what might have been of great interest in our understanding of the 
theory of comic expression in the poem called, indeed, La comedia” (73). In line with his 
approach to Dante as an experimentalist, but also as a reviser, a re-shaper of early 
formulations, Hollander concludes: “The prose of the Vita nuova supplies meanings for 
some of the earlier poems themselves; the prose of the Convivio does so still in more 
striking manner; Convivio and De vulgari Eloquentia approach the question of language 
from apparently different or even contradictory positions; the Comedy frequently engages 
its precursors in the continuing process of growth and self-definition” (74). 

On the second page of this volume, Hollander had spoken of the “telling presence in 
Inferno | of phrases found in Convivio IV; a section of the chapters on Convivio (88-90) 
elaborates on the way that the Commedia corrects some of the positions assumed in 
Convivio. In his treatment of the Commedia Hollander opts for a series of themes — truth 
and poetry, allegory, the moral situation of the reader, the moral order of the afterworld, 
politics, the poetry of the Commedia — inviting the reader to revisit the three cantiche 


352 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


with an investigating tool sharpened by a series of insights and cross-references to the 
works already viewed, and with an eye to the final section on Monarchia. Among the 
themes that Hollander pursues, three sections are reserved to Dante’s three guides, who 
guide him through the afterworld. In relation to Virgil, Hollander returns to the question of 
style and to the fact that the reading of the Aeneid strongly influenced Dante’s notion of 
poetry. Hence derives Dante’s belief that only a poetic work of considerable magnitude 
could attain poetic recognition, while also satisfying the poet’s need to express himself on 
a variety of topics and to introduce a myriad of characters. We know, in fact, that previous 
works (Vita nuova and Convivio) had been characterized by a mix of poetry and prose. In 
Hollander’s treatment, of particular interest is the linking of Virgil with tragedy (/nf 
20:113) and of Dante with comedy (/nf 16:128; 21:2). In relation to Beatrice, Hollander 
analyzes first her role in the Vita nuova and then, in the Commedia, her new role as a 
moral preceptor until she completes her task and returns to her place of glory in Heaven 
(Par. 32), leaving the role of guide to Bernard, whose importance is overshadowed by that 
of Virgil. 

The last section on Monarchia, preceded by the thematic elucidation on politics and a 
very succinct but comprehensive note on the Epistles, brings the volume full circle to the 
final part on the Latin works. A very well organized index facilitates the consultation of 
works and references contained in the notes. The text of Hollander’s volume is arranged in 
such a way as to satisfy both the reader who is stimulated into a quick consultation of the 
passage under discussion, and the one who is prepared to undertake more extensive 
research by referring to the bibliographical references given in the notes. 


Bruno Ferraro, University of Auckland 


Patrick Boyde. Human Vices and Human Worth in Dante’s Comedy. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 2000. Pp. x+323. 
Dante scholars have appreciated Boyde’s outstanding scholarship over a number of years; 
this volume is somewhat the completion of a trilogy on Dante’s poetry and thought — a 
trilogy started with Dante Philomythes and Philosopher: Man in the Cosmos (1981) and 
Perception and Passion in Dante's Comedy (1993) — but it does not take anything for 
granted and each section of the book takes the reader methodically first through the 
authors on which Dantes relied for ‘moral’ guidance and secondly through the application 
of such thoughts in the Comedy. A further fi/ rouge of the volume, which confers organic 
unit to the many sections and adds a circular sense to the entire work, is the theme of the 
quest, symbolised by Ulysses, who is mentioned in the opening chapter and who is the 
subject of a close and perspicacious study in the closing stages of the volume; indeed the 
very title of the book is derived from /nferno XX VI 99 (“e delli vizi umani e del valore’’). 
After a panoramic survey of the authors on whose works Dante draws for moral 
inspiration or guidance — Homer, Plato, Horace, Ovid, Lucan, Virgil, Boethius, Cicero and 
others — Boyde focuses on Aristotle; not before having pointed out, however, that the 
explanation of the principles underlying the classification of sins in Hell (which we find in 
Canto XI) owes as much to Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics as to Roman Law. Chapter 
two is devoted to “the reading of a representative scholastic quaestio” (25) and it ends with 
Dante’s metaphorical celebration of a ‘quest’ for knowledge, hence the importance and 





“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 353 


relevance of Ulysses. Boyde chooses an article from the Summa Theologiae by St Thomas 
Aquinas, to whom Dante assigns a major speaking role in the Paradiso, to illustrate the 
structure of the quaestio on happiness; such exercise leads to an insight in the way Dante 
introduces syllogistic forms in the opening passages of the Convivio, privileging a free 
combination of ratio and auctoritas, and in Monarchia, where Book III in particular shows 
Dante’s delight in the use of syllogistic form. It is here that we find vividly stated Dante’s 
love for truth; it is the human quest for true and certain knowledge that Dante will 
highlight in the Comedy, which can also be viewed as a journey to God and, symbolically, 
to the understanding of love. With symbols comes also the function and importance of 
numbers in the Comedy — three, four, seven, ten and twelve, just to mention a few — and of 
the hierarchical positioning of the many components which belie order, an order which 
stems from God. Dante’s two extended metaphors of fronds on the tree, as described in the 
first canto of the Paradiso, are visually brought out by The Tree of the Vices and The Tree 
of the Virtues, which are reproduced from an English Psalter for Robert of Lisle in the 
years in which Dante was writing the Purgatorio, and which are the illustrations of the 
dust cover of the volume. 

In the second part of the volume Boyde carries out a detailed analysis of the content 
of Dante’s ethical thought; this is done by focusing on the distinction between the 
philosophical and religious texts of the authors who concerned themselves with “human 
vices and human worth.” Some pertinent comparisons of extracts from Aristotle and Dante 
provide the confirmation that Dante shared in the belief that there are two distinct types of 
happiness possible for human beings: the pursuit of truth and the pursuit of virtue. Chapter 
five looks at the Christian values trough Dante’s eyes and proceeds with an investigation 
into the concept of gentilezza, a word which does not occur either in the Bible or in 
Aristotle. Boyde tightens the argumentation on the concept of gentilezza in Dante by 
relating it also to Aristotle’s account of moral virtue and interpreting it as “a seed of 
happiness planted by God” (138). 

After having illustrated the predominantly positive concepts (goodness, happiness, 
virtue), Boyde devotes a chapter each to the two ‘arch-vices’ responsible for all wrong- 
doing: covetousness and pride. Starting with the etymology of cupidigia and proceeding 
with an exemplification of its many facets in the Comedy, Boyde highlights Dante’s 
repulsion towards those who have embodied this vice; a repulsion which is fundamental in 
Dante’s ethics as can be seen in the last chapter of his Monarchia. Likewise, for the 
medieval Christian, superbia was the ‘beginning of all sin’ and Dante upholds this in the 
Farinata episode (/nf. X), continuing his analysis of pride also in the encounters with 
Capaneus (/nf- XIV) and Vanni Fucci (/nf XXV). This last character is situated in the 
canto preceding that of Ulysses, to whom Boyde devotes the last chapter of this volume. 
Boyde forewarns the conclusions to his book when he states how “difficult it is to separate 
the negative and positive elements in the character of a person with “high self-esteem,’ and 
how impossible was the thirteenth-century dream of reconciling the different ethical 
insights and values celebrated by Dante’s authors” (191). A chapter on justice, in which 
Boyde focuses on the literal and metaphorical meanings of the term justitia with textual 
reference to the episode of Rhipeus (Par. XIX), provides a poignant transition to the 
Ulysses chapter, a chapter that takes the form of a detailed case-study in which Boyde 
brings together, by applying them to the text of Canto XXVI, the many approaches, 
categories and themes so far discussed. 

Boyde states that Ovid’s narration in Metamorphoses X}V provides a greater source 


354 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


of inspiration for Dante than Virgil’s episode in Book II, where Ulysses is presented 
unfavorably and his name is linked with deception. Dante had no direct knowledge of the 
Odyssey and learnt of Ulysses also from his reading of two passages in Horace’s works 
where Ulysses is presented in a positive light, as per the Odyssey tradition. However, 
Dante has to come to terms with his own times and with his own ethical attitude towards 
fraud: the transition from his sources to his times is to be seen in the character of Guido da 
Montefeltro (/nf’ XX VII), who is presented as a thirteenth-century counterpart to Ulysses: 
“But for Dante fraud is fraud and is always wrong. Ulysses is explicitly damned for the 
very acts of deception of which Ovid’s Ulysses had been proud” (242). Dante, therefore, 
condemns Ulysses despite the fact that the author identifies himself with the figure of 
Ulysses, as it is evident in Purgatorio XXX in the course of his confession to Beatrice. 

The ten chapters of the volume, subdivided into four parts, are accompanied by 
invaluable notes and an extremely well organized bibliography. Perhaps the only small 
blemish in the book — a typographical oversight: “Dante himself did not study make a 
formal study [...]” (17) — is the only human error in a volume characterized by scholarly 
discussions and clear presentations of the most complex arguments. A final index 
facilitates the consultation of themes, personages and texts in Boyde’s volume. 


Bruno Ferraro, University of Auckland, New Zealand 


Eugenio L. Giusti, Dall’amore cortese alla comprensione. Il viaggio ideologico di 
Giovanni Boccaccio dalla Caccia di Diana al Decameron. Studi e ricerche. Milano: 
Led — Edizioni Universitarie di Lettere Economia Diritto, 1999, Pp. 188 

In meno di 200 pagine Eugenio L. Giusti riesce ad argomentare persuasivamente una tesi 
interpretativa che interessa ben dieci opere boccacciane: Caccia di Diana, Filostrato, 
Filocolo, Teseida, Commedia delle ninfe fiorentine, Amorosa visione, Ninfale fiesolano, 
Elegia di madonna Fiammetta, Corbaccio e Decameron. La sintetica esposizione é 
sostenuta da uno stile incisivo e appare tutta focalizzata sulla descrizione della ideologia 
erotica boccacciana nella sua evoluzione diacronica. Tale ricostruzione teorica prende le 
mosse da una serrata esegesi testuale interna all’opera di Boccaccio, che lascia perd poco 
spazio alla contestualizzazione della fenomenologia amorosa del Certaldese nella 
tradizione letteraria coeva. La significativa presenza di motivi topici dell’amor cortese, 
evidenziata da Giusti nell’analisi delle opere ricordate nel primo capitolo del volume 
(Dalla Caccia di Diana a/ Ninfale fiesolano: stilemi d'amor cortese 9-26), & certo il segno 
di una giovanile adesione del Boccaccio al dettame d’Oltralpe, come scrive il Giusti. 
Questo adeguamento al modello non esclude perd che temi e motivi di scuola vengano 
rifunzionalizzati all’interno della tradizione  letteraria’ trecentesca, secondo un 
procedimento la cul messa in evidenza puo contribuire ad una migliore comprensione dei 
testi. Per portare un esempio concreto, la condanna topica della “mobilita” femminile di 
Filostrato V\\l 29-33 — argomento della tradizionale invettiva dai toni misogini per la 
quale si possono citare antecedenti classici e cortesi (den. IV, 569-70, e De Amore III, p. 
400, Andrea Capellano, Trattato d'amore, ac. di Salvatore Battaglia, Roma, Perrella,1947, 
III, p. 400) — appare nell’operetta boccacciana assumere la forma di una circostanziata 
presa di posizione relativa alla polemica, particolarmente in voga nella letteratura del XIV 
secolo, se fosse in amore da preferire donna matura, maritata 0 vedova, oppure piuttosto 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 355 


giovinetta. La questione é posta anche in Filocolo 1V 51, 2 (Giovanni Boccaccio, Filocolo, 
ac. di Antonio Enzo Quaglio, in Tutte le opere di Giovanni Boccaccio, a c. di Vittore 
Branca, Milano, Mondadori, 1967, vol. I, pp. 47-675 [testo]; pp. 706-970 [note e 
commento]), e numerose eco del tema sono rinvenibili nella rimeria trecentesca (Niccold 
Soldanieri, Giovanni Pigli, Lorenzo Moschi, Matteo Frescobaldi, in Rimatori del Trecento, 
ac. di Giuseppe Corsi, Torino, UTET, 1969, p. 79, n. 17, nonché lo stesso Boccaccio nello 
scambio poetico con Antonio Pucci, in Rime, Tutte le opere di Giovanni Boccaccio, ac. di 
Vittore Branca, Milano, Mondadori, 1992, vol. V, t. 1, LXXXI-LXXXII, pp. 76-77). Alla 
luce di questa controversia il sintagma “perfetta donna” di Fi/ostrato VIIl 32, | sara 
dunque da intendersi quale ‘donna matura’, secondo un’accezione dell’aggettivo 
ampiamente attestata in Boccaccio (si vedano gli esempi ricordati in Fi/ostrato, ac. di 
Luigi Surdich, Milano, Mursia, 1990, p. 419, n. 32, 1), piuttosto che, come sembra 
interpretare Giusti, “donna perfetta, che desidera fermamente di essere amata, che sa 
amare” (15). 

Ripercorrendo nel secondo capitolo la trama dell’ E/egia di Madonna Fiammetta (27- 
54) il Giusti enuclea i primi segni di quella crisi dell’ideologia cortese che portera 
Boccaccio alla creazione di un nuovo modello erotico, la cui affermazione definitiva sara 
successivamente sancita dal Decameron. La riflessione scaturisce da una accurata analisi 
delle dinamiche narrative, specola privilegiata della ricerca. L’amore infelice ed 
inappagato, di ascendenza cortese e stilnovistica, genera, in quello che é stato definito il 
primo romanzo psicologico della letteratura italiana, una frustrazione che provoca stasi, 
incapacita di agire. In questa impasse della protagonista il Giusti riconosce una 
inadeguatezza del modello erotico d’Oltralpe, ormai anacronistico nella nuova societa 
mercantile, tutta incentrata sulla esaltazione della intraprendenza personale e sulla 
affermazione dell’individuo. Alla impossibilita di appagare nel concreto il proprio 
desiderio amoroso Fiammetta risponde sublimando l’esperienza erotica in narrazione 
esemplare. Nasce cosi la verbalizzazione della passione, il lungo monologo al quale 
l’eroina boccacciana affida il ricordo della propria vicenda privata perché possa servire da 
esempio ai lettori, affinché non cadano nella stessa, dolorosa pania d’amore. Negando la 
regola del segreto, alla quale, in accordo alla logica cortese, ogni perfetto amante doveva 
sottostare, la nobildonna napoletana, attraverso il medium del libro, riesce a rompere 
Visolamento cui Eros |’aveva costretta e cerca nella comunicazione scritta una panacea per 
il mal di cuore. Secondo la convincente interpretazione di Giusti quest’ultima si risolve 
non tanto nello “sfogo” della propria infelicita attraverso la narrazione ma piuttosto nella 
ricerca della compartecipazione del pubblico alle proprie sventure, nel tentativo cioé di 
suscitare la “compassione” delle lettrici, cui |’opera é intenzionalmente dedicata. Si profila 
cosi una nuova fenomenologia amorosa, il cui processo evolutivo é evidenziato da Giusti 
attraverso |’analisi delle tematiche similari individuate tra la Fiammetta, le opere ricordate 
nel capitolo I e il Corbaccio (// Corbaccio: /'esempio negato 55-84). Gli elementi portati 
alla riflessione sono tali, a mio giudizio, da consentire di affiancare alla interpretazione 
“ideologica”, promossa da Giusti, anche una lettura semiologica. La presenza di figure 
simboliche (Amante — Amore — Libro - Pubblico), riconoscibile quale costante nella 
produzione boccacciana in esame, testimonia una predilezione, tipicamente medievale, per 
la prosopopea che appare come rivitalizzata in Boccaccio dall’instaurarsi di rapporti di 
relazione tra le personificazioni, codificabili all’interno di una precisa teoria della 
comunicazione letteraria. A differenza del sodalizio dei fedeli d’amore di ascendenza 
stilnovistica, nel quale lo scambio tra “emittente” e “destinatario” presupponeva la 


356 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


professione della medesima ideologia erotica (cfr. La Vita Nuova di Dante Alighieri, a c. 
di Michele Barbi, Firenze, R. Bemporad e figlio Editori, 1932, III, 9-15, dove la richiesta 
di aiuto nella spiegazione dell’allegoria onirica nasce dalla scontata identita culturale tra 
autore e pubblico), Boccaccio colloca innovativamente agli estremi del circolo della 
comunicazione due figure in antitesi, sfruttando il pattern del “modello negativo” (la 
vicenda di Fiammetta funziona come un monito al lettore perché abbracci una diversa etica 
amorosa). 

Sebbene Giusti rinunci ad una analisi retorica e linguistica esaustiva, alla quale si 
sarebbe potuta delegare la verifica della creazione di un lessico dell’affettivita in cui 
riconoscere il riverberarsi della nuova concezione amorosa boccacciana, egli tuttavia 
enuclea alcuni “termini chiave” della fenomenologia erotica del Certaldese. Sono questi i 
lemmi “comprensione” e “compassione”, attorno ai quali ruota |’esegesi decameroniana 
proposta nel volume (// Decameron: 7ra comprensione e compassione 123-74. Appare 
invece ancora dedicato alla tematica del “modello negativo”, analizzata per la Fiammetta, 
il capitolo quarto: // Decameron: chiose al Corbaccio 85-121). 

Concentrata sul piano extradiegetico dell’opera, la lettura di Giusti si sofferma 
dapprima sui luoghi pit. significativi per la riflessione metaletteraria (Proemio, 
Introduzione alla IV giornata, Conclusione), dove “il messaggio metodologico [i. e.. la 
nuova ideologia amorosa, n. d. r.] viene presentato” (126), per poi passare alla 
considerazione delle vicende della brigata, nelle quali “tale messaggio viene messo in atto” 
(126). Pur rendendosi evidentemente necessaria una selezione dei materiali da sottoporre 
al vaglio critico, spiace che i riferimenti alla diegesi delle singole novelle vengano 
programmaticamente esclusi da Giusti, che limita l’esame alla sola “cornice” del 
Decameron. 

Credo che si debba riconoscere a Giusti il merito di aver saputo significativamente 
contestualizzare il Proemio del Centonovelle boccacciano all’interno del percorso 
evolutivo della dinamica erotica del Certaldese. Grazie a questa lettura é possibile superare 
linterpretazione corrente dell’exordium decameroniano, che, privilegiando un approccio 
letterario di tipo intertestuale, pare esaurirsi nella evidenziazione di riprese topiche e, in 
particolare, petrarchesche (Giovanni Boccaccio, Decameron, ac. di Vittore Branca, Nuova 
edizione riveduta e aggiornata, Torino, Einaudi, 1999, Pr., pp. 5-10). Nella frase 
incipitaria, ad esempio, (“Umana cosa é aver compassione degli afflitti”) il commento 
vulgato sembra intravedere la pedissequa ripetizione di una sentenza proverbiale, in 
omaggio alle prescrizioni della retorica medievale secondo le quali “A proverbio sumitur 
initium” (Branca, ed., Decameron, Pr., p. 5 n. 1). Ben altra complessita emerge se si 
proietta la perentoria affermazione esordiale sullo sfondo dell’ideologia amorosa del 
Boccaccio. Chiosa Giusti: “Essere umani significa aver compassione, saper scambiare con 
gli altri i propri sentimenti; essere umani significa essere sociali, e solo in quanto sociale 
l’uomo puo essere chiamato tale” (131). La “socialita”, predicato peculiare al genere 
umano —secondo una posizione per la quale credo non sia errato chiamare in causa 
antecedenti aristotelici — diventa per Giusti presupposto alla comunicazione letteraria. 
Collocata all’interno dello scambio interpersonale (Decameron, Pr., 4; 7), la narrazione si 
connota come esperienza esemplare ed assolve finalita consolatorie: “Sulla base di questi 
presupposti l’autore € in grado di passare dalla sfera individuale a quella sociale attraverso 
il sentimento della gratitudine che gli permette di trasformare l’originaria passione in 
compassione (Pr., 7), eros in agape” (133). 

La vera “rivoluzione copernicana” viene perd attivata dal meccanismo della 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 357 


“comprensione™. L’intelligenza dell’opera letteraria sembra sia rimessa dal Certaldese alla 
buona volonta del lettore, che diviene parte attiva ed integrante del circolo della 
comunicazione. Obietta Boccaccio nella conclusione del Decameron a quanti criticheranno 
la licenziosita delle novelle: “Chi vorra da quelle malvagio consiglio e malvagia 
operazione trarre, elle nol vieteranno a alcuno [...] e chi utilita e frutto ne vorra, elle nol 
negheranno [...]” (Decameron, Concl., 14, p. 1257). Dalla comprensione della parola 
appare deterministicamente influenzata |’“operazione” (‘azione’) dell’uomo nel mondo. 
Con il fiducioso riconoscimento delle potenzialita della scrittura Boccaccio sembra, a mio 
parere, proporre per la fictio poetica una teoria dell’esemplarita paragonabile a quella 
legata all’interpretazione allegorica del testo biblico (termine di riferimento ricordato dallo 
stesso autore: Decameron, Concl., 12, p. 1257). La sfera del reale, da banco di prova della 
Sacra Scrittura, diventa il campo di verifica, tutto laico, del messaggio dell’opera 
letteraria; e se la storia narrata ha come protagonista I’“autore” (e le sue innumerevoli 
proiezioni nei “personaggi”), quella vissuta sembra conoscere quale unico arbitro il 
“lettore”. Alla supina accettazione del proprio destino, componente centrale della 
fenomenologia amorosa cortese, risponde adesso il “libro”, trasformandosi da oggetto di 
ascetico culto ed evasione dalla realta a motore della ruota di una fortuna tutta giocata 
nell’hic et nunc della storia. 

Teresa Nocita, Universitat Ztirich 


Juliann Vitullo. The Chivalric Epic in Medieval Italy. Gainesville: UP of Florida, 2000. 
Pp. xvi + 167. 

With this book, Juliann Vitullo analyzes a number of Carolingian epics produced in 
Northern Italy during the late Middle Ages. Although Vitullo's careful application of 
culturalist categories produces fresh insights into the conflicted ideological and linguistic 
identity that characterizes many of these narratives, her repetition of the same findings and 
conclusions across the three main sections of the volume renders a number of chapters 
somewhat predictable. 

In the introduction to the volume, Vitullo lays bare her episteme. Drawing upon 
Stock's Listening for the Text: On the Uses of the Past, Vitullo argues that the 
incorporation of Carolingian material in Northern Italian epics followed a “traditionalistic™ 
model. This is a model that does not depend upon the passive endorsement of tradition 
but, rather, is the product of a self-conscious appropriation of selected discourses from the 
past. More specifically, for Vitullo, Northern Italian epics employed those elements of 
Carolingian material that could give stability to the emerging value system of urban 
patricians. Such appropriation is, of course, most interesting since it reveals how the 
emerging bourgeois culture of Northern Italian city-states sought legitimacy by 
incorporating discourses of a receding feudal world. 

Three separate sections further develop the broader reflections contained in this 
introduction. In the first section, titled “The Chivalric Epic in Communal Italy,” and 
comprising the chapters “A Hybrid Genre” and “The Conflicting ‘Family Values’ of the 
Marciano XIII Manuscript,” Vitullo revisits a number of scholarly accounts of chivalric 
epics produced in Italy. In “A Hybrid Genre” she argues that, contrary to traditional 
interpretations provided by critics such as Rajna, Viscardi, Limentani, Infurna, and Krauss, 
the eight Carolingian narratives of the Marciano X/// do not present a coherent vision of 


358 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


bourgeois ideology. Rather, they suggest the conflicting and contested presence of feudal 
and communal values. Vitullo’s claims are not only substantiated by cogent references to 
a number of historians who have stressed the problematic assimilation of pro-imperial and 
feudal value systems on the part of bourgeois culture, but also by extensive close readings 
of epic tales. These include the narratives of Bovo d’Antona and Uggieri, where the 
diminished role of the king does not entail the subversion of feudal values and the rigid 
hierarchy upon which these values are predicated. The chapter concludes by suggesting 
that the hybridization of the chivalric epic was not confined to the Italian communes, but it 
is present in a number of late Carolingian epics produced in France, including the 
narratives of Huon de Bordeaux and Gaydon. 

In the second chapter of this section, “The Conflicting “Family Values’ of the 
Marciano XIII Manuscript,” Vitullo continues to analyze the problematic assimilation of 
competing discourses in the epic narratives of the chanson de geste. Focussing most 
closely on the issue of gender identification, Vitullo convincingly argues that, as the clan 
superseded the empire in the determination of social order, the epic genre moved towards 
an exploration of the threats that the clan was now facing. Such threats often came from 
within, that is to say, from the betrayal of family members, including women, as in the 
epics Berta da li pe grandi, Berta e Milon, and Rolandin. Women’s subversion of the 
power of patriarchal authority also brought a weakening of rigid gender identification and, 
for Vitullo, paved the way for conflicted discourses about masculinity. 

The second part of Vitullo’s volume is titled “Cultural Cross-Dressing” and 
comprises the chapters “Hybrid Identities” and “Masculinity, Sexuality, and Orientalism in 
the Medieval Italian Epic.” In “Hybrid Identities” Vitullo circumscribes those characters 
that best represent the solidification of the conflicts and contrasts that shaped late 
Carolingian epics. These include the monster from the Orient. the wild man as laborer and 
manual worker, and the woman as warrior. Drawing upon Garber’s conceptualization of 
cross-dressing as a sign of both transgression and containment, from Garber's Vested 
Interests: Cross-Dressing and Cultural Anxiety, Vitullo insightfully analyzes the figure of 
the monster, from the story of Buovo d’Antona, and of the wild man, from Andrea da 
Barberino’s Le storie nerbonesi. Her discussion of the Amazonian warrior is analyzed 
through French texts, notably Tristan de Nanteuil and Le Roman de Troie, and in the 
Italian versions of Chanson d'Aspremont and Rinaldo da Montalbano. The chapter 
concludes by reflecting upon the high frequency of hybrid figures in Italian epics. 
Endorsing Butler’s notion of identity as a construct that needs to be continuously created 
in order to retain binary oppositions, Vitullo finds that the extensive presence of cultural 
cross-dressers in the epic was ultimately a tool to reinforce traditional boundaries. 

The second chapter of this section is devoted to the genderization of the male subject 
as revealed in the enfance narrative of late Medieval epics. Focussing upon the characters 
of Guerrino, from da Barberino’s Guerrino il Meschino, and da Verona’s Aquilon de 
Baviére, Vitullo claims that these narrative actively promote heterosexual practices. They 
dramatize how young men can achieve a masculine identity only if queer sexuality, 
associated both with the Orient as well as with the absence of physical labor in the 
mercantile economy of Tuscany, is overcome. In general, this chapter contains very sound 
arguments. However, since it not only addresses issues closely related to the preceding 
discussion on hybrid identities, but arrives at analogous conclusions, it is this reader’s 
belief that it should have been integrated within a broader examination of strategies of 
subversion and containment. 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 359 


While the first two sections are firmly focussed on the conflicting ideologies of class 
and gender, the last section of the book, titled “Discursive Rivalries: The Case of Ugo 
d'Alvernia,” explores how tensions are also manifested in other aspects of the epics. 
These aspects include the means of textual transmission (i.e., orality and literacy), the 
choice of literary forms (i.e., poetry and prose), and the ambivalent attitudes towards 
classicism and chivalry. Choosing, as her main exhibit, the narrative Ugo d'Alvernia, by 
da Barberino, Vitullo detects a number of elements that are closely associated with literacy 
and with the written documentation of the emerging bureaucracy of the urban patricians. 
However, Vitullo also identifies residues from oral narration that reveal da Barberino's 
desire to seek the legitimacy of tradition. As for the tension between chivalry and 
classicism, Vitullo develops an interesting comparison between Dante’s relationship to the 
figures from the pre-Christian world and da Barberino’s account of those same figures. 
This is an account that is the site of conflicts, revealing, once again, da Barberino’s will to 
both appropriate and distance himself from the classical world. 

A brief epilogue, titled “The Pleasure of Reading and the Power of the Text,” 
retraces the broader findings of the work and also accounts for the demise of the chivalric 
epic in the context of humanist literary culture. 

An interesting and accessible volume, Vitullo’s The Chivalric Epic in Medieval Italy 
exemplifies how the careful application of contemporary cultural theory can not only 
provide fresher alternatives to traditional approaches to Medieval texts, but can generate 
new insights into the troubled architecture of Carolingian epics. For this reason, it is a 
valuable reading for both scholars and students of Medieval culture. Nonetheless, as | 
have suggested in my preceding paragraphs, this volume has a tendency to repeat the same 
findings and conclusions. Hence, it is this reader’s belief that a subtler handling of the 
central hypothesis would have prevented the predictability of several chapters, thereby 
increasing the pleasure of reading. 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


Sara Sturm-Maddox. Ronsard, Petrarch, and the Amours. Gainesville: U P of Florida, 
1999. 

This significant study concerns primarily three of Ronsard’s poetic clusters: Les Amours 
(1552-53); Sonets pour Héléne (1578); and “Sur la mort de Marie” (1578). Sturm-Maddox 
convincingly argues that the relation between Petrarch’s and Ronsard’s poetry goes well 
beyond the linguistic and stylistic aspects; the French poet’s imitative practice “emerges at 
the level of the collection as a whole” (3). We should begin by recognizing that this 
monograph stands out for its scope. Nor should we underestimate the novelty of this 
approach in the field of French literary studies. Admittedly, Sturm-Maddox borrows her 
critical outlook from Stephen Greenblatt’s concept of “self-fashioning,” which links a 
writer’s textual production to the social, political, and cultural undercurrents of the time. 
Specifically, “with Ronsard, the rhetorical ‘habit of impersonation’ [...] is adopted by a 
poet intent on playing out a compelling role in the highly theatrical culture of mid- 
sixteenth-century France,” which generates “a new emphasis on the importance of the 
poetic persona, one that frequently achieves priority over the poetic style” (3). Needless to 
say, for Ronsard, the poet after whose persona he wanted to model his own was Petrarch. 
This distinctive emphasis produces “a strategy, not of ‘writing /ike Petrarch,’ but rather of 


360 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


a form of lyric impersonation that in effect resolves itself as “writing as Petrarch.’” (4). 
Sturm-Maddox therefore examines Ronsard’s poetic clusters to find evidence of this 
rhetorical self-fashioning after Petrarch throughout his poetic career. 

In Chapter 1, the author rightly underscores the connection between lyrical poetry and 
music, not in historical terms, but in a “metaphoric, metapoetic, or metatextual” sense (9): 
by emphasizing the poet’s act of playing an instrument (be it the lute or the lyre) in his 
poems, Ronsard “draws the attention of the reader, not to the imitative or competitive 
relation between the original text and the new text, but to the figure of the poet, who 
assumes the posture of the imitated master” (10). From the written page, then, attention is 
redirected to the performative, that is, to the poet’s impersonation of an antecedent. Sturm- 
Maddox proceeds to excellent side-by-side readings of selected Petrarchan and Ronsardian 
poems, to highlight Ronsard’s strategy early in his career, that is, prior to the publication 
of Les Amours (15-25). Lastly, she underscores how Ronsard’s approach differed from that 
of his contemporaries, namely Etienne Jodelle, Joachim du Bellay, and Maurice Scéve 
(25-35). 

Chapter 2, devoted to the 1552-53 collection entitled Les Amours, shows Sturm- 
Maddox’s two main strengths. On the one hand she displays a keen ear and a profound 
knowledge of both Petrarch’s Canzoniere and Ronsard’s collection, which enable her to 
hear echoes, find borrowings, and retrace textual correlations between the two texts. On 
the other, she reveals an admirable acumen in both uncovering Ronsard’s posture and 
constructing his strategy. For example, she concludes her discussion of poem 64 (“Qui 
vouldra voyr dedans une jeunesse’) alongside various Petrarchan compositions by pointing 
out that “[i]n this poem, the mosaic composed of fragments found in widely scattered 
poems of the Rime sparse composes a version of the lyric persona’s experience, which, 
rather than resulting in a dissimulatory dilution of the effect of imitation, concentrates the 
relation between the two texts to a particular end” (42). Specifically, Ronsard 
“appropriates Petrarch’s voice and at the same time appropriates the ‘story’ of the Rime as 
it were from within” (42). 

Chapter 3 opens with a summary of Ronsard’s poetic career after the publication of 
Les Amours and until that of the Sonets pour Héléne (1578). Here Sturm-Maddox is to be 
praised for resisting any biographical reading of Ronsard’s oeuvre, that is, for keeping her 
discourse on the textual and cultural level. Further, it is here that the author can 
convincingly show (at least to this reader) the strength of the entire premise of her book: 
even when Ronsard did not write love poetry in Petrarch’s manner, his “reaction against 
the Petrarchan vein is attributed by the poet himself to his reading of Petrarch, not as a text 
but as a ‘story’” (84). This premise in turn allows Sturm-Maddox to highlight Ronsard’s 
assertive reworking of the Petrarchan paradigm: rather than adapt to his model, he 
“changes his public reading of Petrarch to bring the two once again into conformity” (87). 
Ronsard’s poetic persona as it emerges from the Sonets pour Héléne differs substantially 
from that manifested in Les Amours, but it is far from being anti-Petrarchan. 

Chapter 4 concentrates on a cluster of poems written “Sur la mort de Marie” which, 
as Sturm-Maddox notes at the beginning, begs to be read alongside Petrarch’s poems in 
morte di Laura: “for Ronsard’s collection of love poems in morte the recall in the second 
part of the Rime sparse was inevitable; it afforded the perfect model” (129). Moreover, 
again the author reinforces such similarity by invoking the context of such poems, 
specifically, the atmosphere then prevailing at the French court. In other words, Sturm- 
Maddox again insists on the central import of readers in cultural terms. However, the 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 361 


author’s task in unearthing Ronsard’s appropriative strategy is rendered far more difficult 
by the fact that “there was in fact no collection unambiguously devoted to the celebration 
of Marie in vita that would stand now as the precursor of the poems commemorating 
Marie in morte” (132). Further, those poems that celebrated Marie while alive depicted her 
as “teasing, flirtatious” (133). Ronsard’s appropriation of Petrarch entails a rewriting of his 
previous poetry, so that the object of these poems “is now affirmed as a creature of 
Heaven, one descended from Heaven” (135). In essence, Sturm-Maddox concludes, 
“Ronsard effectively creates a new past for the bereaved speaker of the poems, [...] by 
rewriting the chapter of his own story that emerges from the Second Livre des Amours” 
(140). 

In the concluding “Afterword,” the author briefly considers how Ronsard’s efforts at 
rewriting his poetic person encompass the very form of his printed collections: “the 
narrative impulse that relates the experience of Ronsard’s lyric protagonist to that of the 
poet-lover of the Rime sparse [...] may be traced, not only through the initial appearance 
of the successive collections but through the successive editions of Ronsard’s oeuvre” 
(160-61). In addition to indicating her very solid background and in-depth knowledge of 
her topic, here Sturm-Maddox shows the way for further studies of Ronsard’s poetic 
corpus, consistent with recent critical trends that hinge upon the materiality of texts 
themselves. 

For this reason alone, Ronsard, Petrarch, and the Amours constitutes an important 
example for anybody studying early modern poetry. Furthermore, Sturm-Maddox insists 
on the flexibility of Petrarch’s Canzoniere: “the repertory of Petrarchan ‘situations’ 
afforded elements that could be readily assembled according to the love story to be 
recounted, susceptible to introduction and recombination in a variety of contexts” (101); in 
fact she extends it into the socio-cultural ambiance prevailing in France in the 1550s-70s. 
In this manner, she indicates a direction for additional study of poets writing in the 
Petrarchan vein, one that transcends the search for direct citations or even indirect 
allusions. Sturm-Maddox underscores various facets of the fundamental paradox that 
“what ultimately emerges from his appropriation of the Petrarchan person is Ronsard’s 
own poetic ‘I’” (ix). The modern self defines itself against a group or a coterie; the action 
of “self-titling” is simultaneously “a gesture of entitlement” (7); the model has to be 
followed but can freely be dis- and re-assembled. The adaptability of the Petrarchan lyrical 
model that Sturm-Maddox so skillfully brings out in this book should give Italian Studies 
scholars an incentive to examine, or re-examine, those sixteenth-century poets usually cast 
aside as mere petrarchisti, to see if and how their corpus reflected concurrently Petrarch’s 
own persona and the prevailing courtly, theatrical culture of their times. 

Maria Galli Stampino, University of Miami 


Cecil Grayson. Studi su Leon Battista Alberti. Ed. Paola Claut. Firenze: Olschki, 1998. 
Pp. 436 

Nell’aprile del 1998 moriva Cecil Grayson, “Emeritus Serena Professor of Italian Studies” 
ad Oxford: una delle massime autorita filologiche nel campo degli studi albertiani. Cecil 
Grayson continuo a lavorare sino alla fine della sua vita, portando a termine diversi studi 


362 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


concernenti |’Alberti,! in parte rifacimenti di pubblicazioni precedenti.’ II risultato pit 
personale di questi ultimi lavori € una selezione dei suoi scritti sull’Alberti pubblicati dal 
1952 al 1994. Come postuma riverenza offerta allo studioso inglese dal comune di 
Mantova, questa selezione degli studi di Grayson € apparsa come il primo volume di una 
nuova serie promossa dal “Centro di Studi Leon Battista Alberti di Mantova’. Poiché i 
meriti di Cecil Grayson sono universalmente conosciuti, mi concentrerO brevemente su 
questo volume. 

Grayson introduce questa collezione dei suoi studi sull’Alberti in termini molto 
modesti: “La motivazione [...] € di ordine pratico, cioé di rendere pit accessibili cose 
sparse attraverso gli anni in riviste varie o in libri e atti esauriti o difficilmente reperibili® 
(1). Ovviamente il volume vuole essere qualcosa di pil, come nota Alberto Tenente 
(Centro Studi L. B. Alberti) nella premessa al volume. Il volume dunque si propone di 
“offrire sia Vitinerario delle sue [Grayson] indagini che la trama parlante dei punti sui 
quali egli senti l’esigenza di intervenire, sollecitato dalla logica stessa delle sue 
progressive ricerche” (V1). 

In genere 1 saggi sono rimasti nello stato originale per quanto concerne il contenuto. 
Solo una volta Paola Claut, la curatrice del volume, ha cambiato una parola fra due diverse 
versioni dello stesso testo (VII), mentre il suo impegno maggiore é stato quello di 
aggiornare lo stile delle indicazioni bibliografiche e di precisarle. L’organizzazione stessa 
del volume conferisce omogeneita agli studi che vi appaiono. Lo storico dell’arte sentira la 
mancanza delle illustrazioni originali, che sono state riprodotte in numero molto limitato. 
L’indice si limita a segnalare gli scritti pubblicati, ma manca sia un indice analitico che un 
elenco degli articoli non inclusi nel volume, che mi permetto di segnalare in nota.* 

E cosa risaputa che il lettore ideale degli scritti dell’Alberti dev’essere anche uno 
studioso della storia delle scienze. Questo interesse storico appare chiaramente anche 
nell ’introduzione di Cecil Grayson (1-6). Qui Grayson presenta uno sguardo retrospettivo 
sul suol studi e sulle scoperte casuali che egli fece (fra cui l’opusculo Villa, il ritratto a 

' L'Alberti e l'antichita, “Albertiana” 1 (1998), 31-41: Piero di Marco Parenti's 
volgarizzamento of Alberti's Canis, “La Bibliofilia* 100 (1999): Un episodio sconosciuto 
nella vita di L. B. Alberti: il juspatronatus di San Martino a Gangalandi, in Leon Battista 
Alberti. Actes du Congrés International (Paris, Sorbonne/Institut de France/Institut 
Culturel Italien/Collége de France, 10-15 avril 1995), ac. di Francesco Furlan, Pierre 
Laurens, Sylvain Matton, Paris, 1999. 

* Alberti and the Tempio Malatestiano. An Autograph Letter from Leon Battista Alberti to 
Matteo De’ Pasti, November 18, [1454], ed. and trans. into English with an Introduction 
and a New Preface by Cecil Grayson, traduite en frangais per Michel Paoli, “Albertiana” 
2 (1999), 237-58, Leonis Baptiste Alberti de equo animante, testo latino, introduzione e 
note di Cecil Grayson, traduction frangaise par Jean-Yves Boriaud, revisione generale a 
c. di Francesco Furlan, “Albertiana” 2 (1999), 191-235. 

* Alberti, Leon Battista, in Dizionario biografico degli italiani, Roma, 1960, vol. 1, pp. 
702-09; Favors of Fortune [On L. B. Alberti and V. Calmeta], “Manuscripts” 22 (1970), 
180-87; Alberti, Leon Battista, in Dizionario critico delle letteratura italiana, Torino 
1974, vol. 1, pp. 10-16, e la versione aggiornata della seconda edizione, Torino, 1986, 
vol. 1, pp. 9-15: e finalmente la sola recensione di Cecil Grayson del Momo o del 
principe, ed. e trad. a c. di Rino Consolo, Genova 1986, in “Giornale storico della 
Letteratura italiana” 164 (1987), 458-63. 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 363 


Roma, le correzioni autografe nel De re aedificatoria). Grayson descrive inoltre la 
situazione attuale delle ricerche albertiane, mettendo in luce il proprio apporto. Cosi, 
quando accenna che molti studi albertiani sono stati nel frattempo sorpassati da nuove 
ricerche, Grayson non pud fare a meno di aggiungere che essi sono stati superati “in 
ispecie, ma non solo, da sé stesso“ (1). Sorprende poi il tono personale, ad esempio 
quando egli menziona “momenti di delusione e incertezza* dell’Alberti ed il rimedio del 
riso (4-5). Nell’insieme questa raccolta da un’impressione molto personale, quasi intima. 

Dei ventotto scritti inclusi nel volume otto trattano della teoria dell’arte, uno 
concentrandosi sul famoso ritratto albertiano. L’approccio di Grayson e€ contrassegnato 
dalla lettura accurata dei testi albertiani. Quindi i sempre validi scritti sulla teoria dell’ arte 
— per esempio, The Composition of [...] “De re aedificatoria” (1960) oppure On 
Painting and on Sculpture (1972) — esaminano i testi dal punto di vista filologico, 
apportando quindi risultati importantissimi per la storia dell’arte. Per essere pil precisi, 1 
testi vengono esaminati solo in modo filologico. Tale limitazione € sicuramente prudente, 
sebbene dispiaccia a volte che uno studioso dalla statura del Grayson non abbia 
considerato alcune idee centrali agli scritti dell’Alberti, come ad esempio il ruolo 
dell’uomo nel sistema delle proporzioni architettoniche. Cid avrebbe quasi sicuramente 
condotto a risultati molto utili per una disciplina come la storia dell’arte e anche per gli 
studi filologici.* 

Nell’insieme Grayson ci offre un’immagine chiara ed indelebile del suo intenso 

interesse per quella che é la figura centrale dell’umanesimo artistico del Quattrocento. 


Marcus Frings, 7echnische Universitat Darmstadt 


Julia M. Kisacky. Magic in Boiardo and Ariosto. Studies in Italian Culture. Literature 
in History 25. New York: Peter Lang, 2000. Pp. 189. 

Julia Kisacky’s book offers a systematic treatment of the magical and the fantastic 
elements in two of the most popular epic poems of the Italian Renaissance: Boiardo’s 
Orlando innamorato and Ariosto’s Orlando furioso. As Kisacky states in her introduction, 
“the long and illustrious history of the topos of magic in literature offers many possible 
influences on Boiardo’s and Ariosto’s treatment of it” (1). From classical sources and 
throughout the medieval romance tradition, magic plays an important role in the 
development (or, far more often, delay) of the plot. The Orlando innamorato and the 
Orlando furioso are no exceptions. In both poems magic generally disrupts an existing 
order and represents the chaotic and unpredictable aspects of life. As Kisacky finely brings 
out in a series of examples throughout the book, magic is largely associated with the 
irrational and opposed to order and reason. 

Prior to her detailed treatment of the various occurrences of magic in the two poems, 
Kisacky makes an important distinction between magical and enchanted objects, a 
distinction that has important implications for how we judge the chivalric value of the 
characters. According to Kisacky, magic weapons proper are those that possess 
supernatural powers, like Astolfo’s golden lance and Rugiero’s magical shield. Their 


* Marcus Frings, Mensch und Maf. Anthropomorphe Elemente in der Architekturtheorie 
des Quattrocento, Weimar 1998, pp. 109-51. 


364 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


properties provide distinctive advantages to their possessors and are generally considered 
unchivalrous. The second category includes what Kisacky calls enchanted weapons. As 
such, these weapons do not possess special powers and their value comes mainly from the 
prestige of their past or present owners. Orlando’s Durindana and his helmet, for instance, 
fall into this category. This distinction, as is well exemplified in the rest of the book, is 
important in recognising the chivalric value of the characters and their full status as 
knights. The category of enchanted armors, with its emphasis on the prestige of previous 
possessors, further accomplishes the function of linking different narrative traditions. In 
the /nnamorato, for instance, Rodamonte’s armor is inherited from his ancestor Nimrod, 
builder of the Tower of Babel and one of the giants who fought against Jove. In this way 
Boiardo creates some continuity between various traditions: the biblical, the classical, and 
the chivalric. 

Far from condemning magic as a weapon used only by villains, both Boiardo and 
Ariosto admit to the possibility that magic is used also by the righteous characters. The 
recognition of magic as morally acceptable, however, differs between the two authors. 
According to Kisacky, Boiardo leaves the question largely in the foreground, whilst 
Ariosto’s treatment varies from case to case. It is clear, however, that a knight should not 
use magical weapons that would bring him unfair advantage. 

Kisacky’s study begins by looking at magic in Boiardo’s Orlando innamorato. The 
first two chapters present a systematic treatment of the different magical elements in the 
Innamorato. The first chapter illustrates in some detail magic and enchanted armors such 
as the magic lance, the magic ring that ensures invisibility, the magic waters, and 
Boiardo’s monsters and mages. The second chapter deals instead with supernatural 
creatures. Here we find illustrated and interpreted the function of the supernatural horses 
Baiardo and Rabicano, monsters and giants, mythological villains such as Medusa, and 
finally, the practitioners of magic. In this last sub-category are included fays and sorcerers. 

It is in the category of monsters, however, that, according to Kisacky, “Boiardo’s 
poetic world is most different from Ariosto’s” (34). Boiardo offers numerous instances 
where supernatural creatures put the adventurer to the test: dragons, bulls, a Siren, a 
venomous bird, and a Fauna are only some of these creatures in the /nnamorato. In Ariosto 
such creatures are not only less numerous, but also less well described. Another distinction 
between the two authors applies to their faithfulness to their sources. As Kisacky points 
out, Boiardo’s marvelous creatures, despite being closely derived from classical 
mythology, are radical reinventions of the originals. On the contrary, Ariosto’s creatures 
are, in general, more faithful to the original. For this reason, in the /nnamorato magic is 
such a powerful source of meraviglia and diletto. In general, and perhaps also because of 
the open ending of the /nnamorato, the magical elements (which, as we have seen, are 
carrier of chaos and disruption and are more numerous than in the Furioso) give the reader 
the impression of a lesser control of the material and of the faculty of fantasia and 
invention on the part of the author. 

As Kisacky concludes, “in the fabulous world of the /nnamorato the principal 
function of magic is to provide delightful adventures, adventures which are at least as 
important as the main plot threat of duty and religion” (53). In a fine balance of magical 
and anti-magical powers, the various elements have either anti-rational or rational effects, 
and operate by delaying or advancing the epic plot of the poem. 

Chapters three and four bring the reader closer to the magical elements of the 
Orlando furioso. Kisacky’s analysis is strongly modeled on the preceding chapters of the 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d'italianistica 19 (2001) 365 


Innamorato. She tries to build a parallel taxonomy of elements that can correspond to or 
deviate from those analyzed in the /nnamorato. In chapter three she presents once again a 
close reading of the text at hand and interprets Ariosto’s treatment of marvelous artifacts 
such as the lance, the shield, the ring, and the magic waters. New elements that are only 
present in the Furioso are now treated, such as the harquebus, the goblet, and the horn. 
Likewise, chapter four is modeled on chapter two on the /nnamorato and treats a series of 
examples of supernatural creatures in the Furioso. Chapter five deals more extensively 
than in the case of the /nnamorato with the specific category of practitioners of magic. 
After briefly treating the category of fays, the author moves to the sorcerers, offering an 
elaborate analysis of the character of Atlante and pointing out the differences in treatment 
in the /nnamorato and the Furioso. Equally well fleshed out are the characters of Merlin 
and other minor sorcerers. The final part of the last chapter deals instead with the 
“Christian” sorcerers, namely the miracle-workers, particularly Michael and St. John. 
Miracles are not so different from magic. They lack, however, the chaotic aspect that 
characterises the latter. Whereas in Boiardo magic always represents disruption and chaos, 
in Ariosto magic can sometimes be at the service of order, as in the case of the miracle- 
workers. 

Kisacky’s conclusion is that in both Ariosto and Boiardo, magic is an important 
component of the poem’s unity. In Boiardo, however, the element of magic is reinforced 
by the richness of supernatural figures that provoke meraviglia. In both poems, magic 
ultimately acts as “a vehicle for the Renaissance dialectic between fortuna and virti” 
(137). Magic has to confront itself with the vagaries of fortune and can be equally 
overcome by human efforts. Magic, as exemplified in the Arthurian tradition, is also often 
used to create humorous situations. 

Readers interested in Renaissance magic may be disappointed to read that neither 
Boiardo nor Ariosto was strongly influenced by the teaching of hermeticism. In Kisacky’s 
opinion, there is little, if anything, of Pico’s distinction between good and bad magic. On 
the contrary, we see demons fight on both the side of the Christians and that of the Pagans. 
Whilst Boiardo’s position on magic is unclear (Boiardo seems to endorse astrology as 
essential to civilization), Ariosto is explicitly skeptical and rather critical of the credulity 
of his contemporaries in divination and magic. Readers familiar with Ariosto’s work will 
certainly remember Ariosto’s satire of magic and medicine in // negromante. 

The author accomplishes a thorough and sophisticated analysis of the theme of the 
book, and examples are abundant and well presented. No attempt is made, however, to fill 
in the reader with even the basic elements of medieval and classical magic that constitute 
the main source of magic in the texts. Considering the fact that this book is part of a series 
entitled Studies in Italian Culture. Literature in History, an attempt at sketching the 
historical and the social contexts of chivalric magic would have certainly better placed the 
book within the series and made for more informed and contextual reading. Although the 
main sources of the Furioso have been explored in a number of scholarly works (and the 
magic sources were in part analyzed already in the pioneering work by Pio Rajna of 1876), 
a brief treatment of the classical and medieval precedents, and a more comprehensive 
analysis of the social and cultural contexts of magic and its relation to court festivities, 
would have nicely complemented the textual and thematic analyses. As pointed out in an 
article by Thomas M. Greene (“Magic and Festivity at the Renaissance Court,” 
Renaissance Quarterly 40 (1987): 636-59), spectacular magic and marvelous adventures 
of the kind of John of Mandeville’s travel stories to the Far East were very much part of 


366 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


the intellectual and cultural mindset of Renaissance courts. This kind of literature, together 
with the Arthurian and Carolingian traditions from which epic literature drew its 
inspiration, reflects the vivid interest of men and women of the Renaissance court for the 
sense of meraviglia and diletto offered by escapist and fantastic plots. Equally, Greene’s 
distinction between spectacular and teleologic magic (namely, the magic that is used by 
the author to accomplish something other than di/etto and that usually conveys a more 
subtle message) can be fruitfully applied to the two texts examined by Kisacky. Whilst the 
Innamorato better fits the former category, the Furioso, with its eulogistic and satiric 
elements on the origins of the Este family, seems to exploit more persistently the features 
of teleologic magic. 

That said, the book provides for interesting reading and reveals an accurate and 
insightful analysis of the texts on the part of the author. As the recent bibliographies 
compiled by Robert J. Rodini testify, scholarly works on the /nnamorato and the Furioso 
are abundant, and this field of studies seems to have enjoyed a steady popularity over the 
years. This book places itself usefully within the critical literature by providing valuable 
material for comparatists and students of the Italian Renaissance alike. It will also be 
particularly useful in the classroom to develop thematic discussions and encourage critical 
interpretation of the function of different elements at work in an epic poem. Furthermore, 
it can have the particular virtue of opening up discussion and research on a theme, that of 
courtly magic in Ferrara, that has not as yet received the attention it deserves. 

Monica Azzolini, St. John's College, Cambridge, UK 


Armando Maggi. /dentita e impresa rinascimentale. Ravenna: Longo, 1998. 

Armando Maggi’s book represents an important contribution to the still relatively 
unstudied field of impresa literature. In recent years there has been a proliferation of 
interest in emblematics, but the particular topic of treatises and dialogues on Italian 
imprese has received less notice. Although undoubtedly influenced by French trends, the 
impresa came to be a peculiarly Italian phenomenon, especially in relation to the 
theoretical works in which its mechanisms were dissected. Since the seminal studies of 
Mario Praz, Robert Klein, and Ernst Gombrich, it has been chiefly within the context of 
Italian literary history that these tracts have received the closest attention (resulting, for 
instance, in the modern editions of works by Paolo Giovio, Girolamo Bargagli, Torquato 
Tasso, and Emmanuele Tesauro), and Maggi’s volume represents a continuation of this 
tradition. It was through the sixteenth- and seventeenth-century theoretical writings that 
the impresa came to be defined as a separate, and indeed superior, form of expression. 
From their use in the courts of the early Cinquecento, these personal symbolic devices 
became the subject of intense academic debate, their fundamental combination of both 
word and image examined in light of contemporary debates on poetics and philosophy. 

The uniqueness of combining written and visual modes of expression gave the 
impresa the possibility of exploiting the strengths of each, a factor which goes towards 
elucidating the fascination that these devices held for the late Renaissance. Because of its 
conciseness, its form was considered by some critics the elusive external equivalent to 
single thoughts. To others it was a vehicle of divine revelation, a way of expressing the 
inexpressible. Alessandro Farra was perhaps the most esoteric of authors on imprese, and 
Maggi provides an interesting analysis of his little-read Settenario dell humana riduttione 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 367 


(Pavia, 1571). The impresa as a modern equivalent of the Egyptian hieroglyph, a divine 
sign which was thought to be understood by only a few initiates, did not originate in 
Farra’s writing, and, in fact, owes a great deal to the translation and commentary of 
Neoplatonic texts by Marsilio Ficino in the previous century. And yet, it is Farra who 
provides the most comprehensive reading of the impresa through the Christianized 
Neoplatonic ascent of the soul towards God, outlined most influentially by Ficino in his 
Commentary on Plato’s Symposium. In fact what Farra is positing is not just the notion that 
imprese represent, but that they contain vestiges of Plato’s Ideas and that they are therefore 
more perfect, more celestial than the shadows of the things they represent, man included. 

Typical of his eclectic and curious age, Farra borrows aspects of Cabalistic 
philosophy to augment his Platonic bent, and the result produces a text which most later 
writers found overblown and irrelevant. Farra’s inherent exaltation of the image as 
apprehended intuitively, however, does find some favour in subsequent authors, such as 
Giulio Cesare Capaccio (Delle imprese, Naples, 1592). Generally speaking, there is no 
overall coherence to the theoretical literature on imprese, insofar as there are almost as 
many opinions as authors, and as the debate proceeds through the late sixteenth and into 
the seventeenth century, it becomes increasingly self-referential, each author contending 
with those who have come before. What the literature represents most clearly is the 
academic discourse itself, the demonstration of one’s knowledge and capacities, the 
polemic as self-expression. That said, the basic rules and explanations of how the impresa 
functions, how many words it should have, what subjects are worthy of being depicted, 
and so forth, do not change as much as it might seem. It is the approach that evolves, with 
new and modish preoccupations brought into the discussion depending on the individual 
leanings of the author. 

Maggi’s book reflects this variety, its four main sections and three appendices taking 
very different themes and examining very different kinds of works. The resulting volume 
represents a series of studies which are not always related, although certain issues are 
picked up time and again throughout. The book lacks a bibliography, which would have 
been useful, although there is a wealth of source material in the footnotes, and Maggi’s 
examination of some of the lesser-known works, such as Cesare Trevisani’s L ’'impresa, 
provides a useful insight into the breadth of literary output on imprese. The majority of 
works dedicated to the subject fall either into the category of collections of imprese, often 
with no theoretical discussion, or constitute analytical studies where the form itself is 
examined. Maggi includes analysis of a further category of poetical works, such as La 
Virginia, overo della dea de’ nostri tempi of Ercole Tasso (Bergamo, 1593), where the 
impresa is used as an alternative form of expression, completing the meaning implied by 
other more traditional literary modes. There is a good deal of discussion in the treatises on 
imprese about the relationship between them and poetry, and they tend to be examined in 
light of certain literary topoi, such as decorum, poetic licence, meraviglia. And yet the 
general consensus is that they constitute a separate genre because, as Torquato Tasso 
stresses (// conte, overo de l'imprese, 1594, modern edition ed. B. Basile, Rome, 1993), 
they employ the instruments of both the poet and the painter. The devices themselves were 
constantly described as concise and self-contained, great virtues to the Renaissance 
sensibility, and yet the tracts written about them are quite the opposite. Often long-winded 
and pedantic, their circling around, trying to explain in words what was so unique about a 
contained form, merely serves to throw into greater relief the virtue of the impresa itself, 
its brevity impossible to replicate through the discursive process. In his discussion of the 


368 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Accademia degli Occulti of Brescia, Maggi further observes the equivocal nature of the 
impresa, which can have multiple and fluid meanings, the better to represent the 
complexity and ambiguity of the individual. 

The emphasis on the individual, and on the impresa as the perfect metaphor for man. 
was underlined by the definition of its component parts — word and image — as anima 
and corpo, the combination of the two providing a parallel to man’s dual nature. In terms 
of individuality, however, Maggi rightly points out that the impresa represents not only an 
expression of the individual self but of the broader culture in which it became so prevalent. 
The concept of the individual furthermore becomes blurred in the corporate identity of the 
academies where the impresa chiefly found its theoretical raison d’étre. Each academy 
would have its own impresa, and this mark of identity often constitutes the only evidence 
we have of the existence of a particular group. Paolo Giovio (// dialogo delle imprese 
militari et amorose, first published Rome, 1555) had associated the vogue for these 
devices with the insignia of invading armies at the end of the fifteenth century, and in the 
context of the academies the impresa takes on intriguing military connotations. Scipione 
Bargagli, for instance (Delle lodi delle accademie, Siena, 1569), compares the impresa of 
each academy to a banner under which the members serve, and through which they display 
their collective intent. (This intent was generally stated as self-improvement along vaguely 
Neoplatonic lines, so that the soul’s final ascent is facilitated by its perfection in the 
earthly realm away from the body.) In a very real sense, the impresa represents, as Maggi 
puts it “un’arma dell’anima” (80), the enoblement of the intellect expressed through a 
symbolic form which had heraldic associations but was ultimately more democratic. The 
res publica of letters finds its realization in the ideals of the sixteenth-century Italian 
academies, which were often set up as microcosms of society, with ranks of offices which 
were shared out among the members. Academies might furthermore display courtly 
aspirations, with the Pavian Accademia degli Affidati, for instance, including duelling 
among its activities, alongside the discussion of Castiglione’s // libro del cortigiano. In 
many ways, the academic ideals enunciated by the Affidati constitute a reinterpretation of 
Castiglione, serving to define the profile of the perfect academician, while the impresa 
becomes the badge of intellectual honour. 

Especially interesting in Maggi’s book is his examination of the ways in which the 
impresa was used as a “narrative” device. He looks in section IV at the extremely witty 
and curiously engaging dialogue by Scipione Ammirato (// Rota, overo delle imprese, 
Napoli, 1562) as well as Trevisani’s L 'impresa and the Funerale fatto nel duomo di Torino 
by Luigi Giuglaris (Turin, 1638). In particular, these works demonstrate how the impresa 
can be used to construct a visitable space which functions to a degree as a theatre of 
memory. In the case of both // rota and Giuglaris’s description of the funeral of the Prince 
of Savoy, the space literally evokes the memory of someone who is dead (in Ammirato’s 
dialogue, this is Berardino Rota’s deceased wife Porzia Capece). In this way, these works 
also display the virtuosity of their authors in being able to produce a number of different 
imprese on the same basic theme of death and grief. Taking his point of departure from the 
notion that memory itself is experienced as a series of spaces, Maggi explores the 
movement which characterises both works, as one is guided through the spatial 
construction. It seems to me that the impresa itself is a spatial entity, three-dimensional by 
virtue of its multifaceted nature, the interpretation of which necessarily implies an element 
of time. And Maggi’s description of Ammirato’s work as “baroque” in its composition of 
“spazi e vuoti” (138), is an illuminating way of describing the process of interpretation 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 369 


itself. 

While the image component is almost always described as absolutely fundamental to 
the impresa, the theory itself essentially relegates the image to a position of superfluity 
perhaps best summed up by the title of the last of Maggi’s appendices: L'‘inutilita del 
corpo. Maggi himself approaches the subject from the point of view of literary criticism, 
incorporating a fair amount of modern theory into his analysis. The fact remains, however, 
that imprese consisted of both word and image and they were, in fact, employed 
extensively in the visual context. It is, moreover, the tension between the written and 
visual modes that provides some of the most interesting points of debate regarding this 
particular form of expression. 

Dorigen Caldwell, Rome 


Deborah Parker. Bronzino: Renaissance Painter as Poet. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 
2000. Pp. 233. 

‘To know Bronzino’s poetry is to know his art — and the artist-poet himself — more 
fully’ (11). With this premise, Deborah Parker has produced the first modern study that 
focuses specifically on the poetry of Agnolo Bronzino (1503-1572). Bronzino has 
traditionally been considered the official portrait painter of the sixteenth-century Medici 
court. Relatively little critical attention, however, has been paid to his literary works, 
which have invariably been relegated to a position of secondary importance with respect to 
his portraiture. Parker’s intention in writing this elegant and fascinating monograph is to 
redress the balance. 

During his lifetime, Bronzino produced more than 300 poems, and was as well- 
known a poet as he was an artist. Indeed, his interests in vernacular poetry were attested by 
contemporaries such as Alessandro Allori and Pontormo, his friend and maestro di 
bottega. Bronzino’s literary and artistic activities began around the same time in the 1530s. 
On 11 February 1541, he became a member of the informal cultural gathering known as 
the Accademia degli Umidi (which was rapidly transformed into the Medici-sponsored 
Accademia Fiorentina). During his membership with this institution, Bronzino became 
associated with a group of fellow /iterati that included Giovanni Mazzuoli, the original 
founder of the Umidi group, Luca Martini, Ugolino Martelli, and the Tuscan intellectual 
Benedetto Varchi. Indeed, Varchi was to prove a fundamental figure in the development of 
Bronzino’s literary ambitions, and he featured prominently in the artist-poet’s own 
compositions. 

Bronzino’s literary work can be divided into two different poetic categories: the 
burlesque works and his lyric compositions. The rime burlesche, or ‘poetry of common 
effect’ (19), form the subject of Parker’s first chapter. During Bronzino’s own lifetime, 
these poems were circuiated in both manuscript and in printed editions. Parker rightly 
acknowledges that one of the greatest problems facing modern scholars of Bronzino is 
deciphering the actual meaning of his poetry. The obscurity inherent in the poems is not 
only due to the adoption of an equivocal coded lexis, but also to the author’s practice of 
making reference to highly specific contemporary events and customs. Thus, Bronzino is 
both elusive and allusive, and this in part may help to explain why he has never received 
the accolades enjoyed by some of the other writers of vernacular verse in the sixteenth 
century, notwithstanding the sheer size of his literary output. 


370 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Parker is well capable of rising to the interpretative challenge, and she frequently 
provides a detailed exposition of the more problematic, unyielding passages. Whilst she is 
keen to offer possible solutions to some of the more intractable pieces, she is always aware 
of their potential to contain multiple meanings. The task of clarifying the often complex 
instances of contemporary specificity is aided by her ability to locate Bronzino and his 
work precisely within the social and cultural milieu of mid-Cinquecento Florence. 

Bronzino’s tendency to eroticize language is one of the notable features of his rime 
burlesche, and Parker does deal with this topic in a highly convincing manner. The essence 
of his burlesque compositions is the irreverent humor to be found within them. This is 
readily apparent in his parodic use of courtly language, utilized to such great effect in two 
of his most celebrated capitoli, ‘In lode della galea’ ("In Praise of the Galley’) and ‘La 
cipolla’ (“The Onion’). 

In contrast to his light-hearted verses, Bronzino’s lyric poetry, discussed in detail in 
chapter two, displays a more refined side to the author. The lyric poems, composed over 
the same period of time as the rime burlesche, comprise a substantial literary corpus 
known as the Canzoniere, that includes some 265 compositions (mainly sonnets) by 
Bronzino and other poets. Only a handful of the sonnets were printed during Bronzino’s 
life, with the majority of the collection remaining in manuscript form until the publication 
of the entire Canzoniere in 1823. 

The lyric verse anthology was a popular literary format in the sixteenth century, and 
Bronzino’s rime are conventional in terms of structure and content. Like other examples 
from this genre, the work features a series of sonnets devoted to recurring themes. A 
substantial number take the form of verse correspondence between Bronzino and 
numerous acquaintances such as Benedetto Varchi, the controversial poet and dramatist 
Antonfrancesco Grazzini, the Florentine goldsmith Benvenuto Cellini (a fellow artist- 
author), and Laura Battiferri, the sixteenth-century poet and wife of the sculptor 
Bartolomeo Ammannati. Parker’s description of the Canzoniere as an ‘intermingling of 
voices’ (42) is thus very apropos. The end result is a lyrical exercise in mutual adulation 
and praise, often generic in vocabulary and sentiment, between author and recipient. 
Nevertheless, the sequence of poetic proposte and risposte was instrumental in helping to 
foster and consolidate bonds of solidarity and shared interests amongst a relatively small 
group of literati and artists who were all operating at this time. Bronzino’s involvement in 
the exchange of sonnets served as a vehicle for greater social and personal advancement, 
since it allowed him to participate in a refined literary activity that was the preserve of a 
cultivated and privileged section of the populace, a group to whom he referred as his 
‘amica schiera’. In this respect, Bronzino’s literary endeavors were akin to his artistic 
ones, since both provided him with the opportunity of promoting his talents, as well as 
ingratiating himself with the city’s leading patrons. 

The socio-cultural interactions between the two artistic media practised by Bronzino 
are explored in the second half of the book. Parker begins by analyzing the ways in which 
the world of art impinged upon, and was featured in, his poetry. Her chosen exempla are 
three capitoli that reveal Bronzino’s most overt comments on artistic matters: *Del 
pennello’, a burlesque work centering on the pun between the artist’s brush and the 
colloqualism for penis; ‘Il capitolo in lode del dappoco’, which Parker describes as a 
facetious tribute to idlers; and ‘Il secondo delle scuse’, a somewhat cynical account of the 
excuses used by contemporary artists to defend poor workmanship. The similarities that 
are inherent in Bronzino’s poetic and visual styles are investigated in greater depth in the 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 371 


last chapter. Parker substantiates her argument by focussing on works representative of the 
two artistic media: the famous Allegory of Venus, painted in 1546, and the poem entitled 
‘Il Piato’. Bronzino’s painting, also known as the London Allegory, contains a wealth of 
ambiguous gestures. Parker takes the view that the numerous interpretative viewpoints 
associated with the work actually contribute to a greater appreciation of its allusiveness, 
and it is this very feature that is also present in ‘I] Piato’. Written between 1552 and 1555, 
this little-known burlesque poem is composed of 8 capitoli that describe a fantastic 
journey made across the body of a giant named Archigrandone. Its heterogeneous nature, 
which draws on a wide variety of vernacular literary traditions, including parody and 
social satire, would have appealed to a highly literate audience. 

Parker also explores Bronzino’s use of witty, visually allusive puns in works such as 
his double-sided painting of the court dwarf Morgante. Its significance, she maintains, lies 
in its evocation of contemporary cultural debates centering on the relative merits of 
sculpture versus painting. By producing a work that can display the human body from 
more than one perspective, Bronzino was thus artfully adding his own contribution to the 
argument. 

On occasion, however, the conclusions reached regarding the allusive similarities 
between the worlds of literature and fine art are somewhat tenuous. A case in point is 
Parker’s discussion of the portrait of Giovanni de’ Medici (1545). She suggests that the 
inclusion of the little bird in the boy’s right hand may have been intended as a subversive 
gesture (‘uccellino’ being used as a slang word for penis). However, such an allusion 
would surely have been inappropriate, particularly given the fact that Giovanni’s father 
was the Duke of Florence, an important patron. An insult, however veiled, would certainly 
have threatened the artist’s professional position, not to mention his life, for the duke was 
famous for his irascibility and terribilita. Surely the significance of the bird lies not so 
much in any potential erotic allusion, but rather in the symbolism of the portrayed species. 
The goldfinch, or ‘cardellino’, was traditionally associated with the Christ-child (one 
thinks, for instance, of Raphael’s Madonna del Cardellino, c. 1506, housed in the Uffizi). 
Since Giovanni was born only two years previously in 1543, Bronzino may have been 
making a visually encomiastic connection between his exalted sitter and the Son of God. A 
more mundane explanation lies in the young Giovanni’s apparent fascination with small 
birds; this is attested in a letter from the ducal secretary Lorenzo Pagni to the 
maggiordomo Pierfrancesco Riccio, dated August 1545. It is interesting to note that 
Giovanni is also praised by Bronzino in his Canzoniere, in the poem ‘Angel novello, 
Anima eletta, e pura’. This piece forms a poignant counterpart to the series of sonnets on 
the deaths, in 1562, of Giovanni, his brother Garzia, and their mother Eleonora di Toledo. 
Here is a further instance in which the visual and lyric art forms intersect. 

Nevertheless, Deborah Parker is highly successful in fulfilling the twin aims of the 
book, namely, to draw attention to the artist’s previously obscure poetic compositions and 
highlight their merits, and to demonstrate how an understanding of the poetry may serve to 
shed fresh light in a discussion of his paintings. She has produced an eminently readable 
and much-welcomed volume that is meticulously researched, and that contains some 
beautifully translated passages of Bronzino’s poetry. It will undoubtedly be of great value 
to anyone working on the interaction between literature and fine art in the early modern 
period, as well as to specialists with a particular interest in ‘this most canny, self- 
conscious, and allusive of artist-poets’ (13). 

Domenico Zanré, University of Glasgow, Scotland 


372 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Giraldi Cinzio, Giovambattista. Discorso dei romanzi. Ed. Laura Benedetti, Giuseppe 
Monorchio, and Enrico Musacchio. Bologna: Millennium, 1999. 

La copertina modesta, quasi monastica, di questo volume racchiude una splendida quanto 
necessaria edizione del Discorso intorno al comporre dei romanzi del ferrarese 
Giovambattista Giraldi Cinzio, stampato in prima istanza a Venezia nel 1554. II testo del 
trattato € preceduto da un’indispensabile introduzione, e seguito (in appendice) dalla prima 
edizione moderna di due lettere di Giraldi e di un opuscolo dello stesso, parte di una 
polemica con Giovambattista Pigna sulla precedenza cronologica dei rispettivi trattati sui 
poemi cavallereschi. Chiude il volume una bibliografia assai nutrita e aggiornata, che 
oltretutto ha il pregio di coprire un vasto spettro di discipline. 

L’introduzione, scritta a sei mani, sottolinea l’importanza del testo di Giraldi in 
termini politici e cultural. | tre curatori partono da un inquadramento storico generale sulle 
condizioni alla corte gonzaghesca alla meta del sedicesimo secolo (5-11), soffermandosi 
sugli avvenimenti guerreschi, sull’“irradiamento culturale” (8) promosso dal duca Ercole 
II, e sulle tensioni ideologico-teologiche attorno alla duchessa Renata. A queste ultime, 
affiancano quelle che percorrevano I’universita, accentrandosi infine sulla controversia tra 
Giraldi e Pigna (12-20). Costoro furono autori “dei primi [due] scritti in difesa di un 
genere letterario [...] che aveva avuto popolarita immensa, ma che proprio in quegli anni 
aveva cominciato a subire gli attacchi di quei cultori della letteratura che, sulla base della 
riscoperta Poetica aristotelica, mettevano in forse la sua canonicita™ (12). 

L’anteriorita del Discorso di Giraldi 0 de / romanzi di Pigna veniva quindi 
considerata cruciale non solo dal punto di vista culturale e letterario, ma anche da quello 
politico e cortese: essendo il romanzo l’unico genere ferrarese autoctono, per cosi dire, la 
sua difesa costituiva titolo di vanto e di distinzione per qualunque cortigiano, specialmente 
per coloro (come Giraldi e Pigna) che venivano stipendiati dal duca presso l’universita. | 
curatori offrono nell’introduzione un ipotesi, circostanziata e secondo me convincente, per 
dirimere la questione dell’anteriorita di un trattato rispetto all’altro, in favore di Giraldi 
(12-16). 

Oltre all’inquadramento cultural-storico offerto nell’introduzione, i tre curatori 
meritano la gratitudine dei lettori per la mole di informazioni, citazioni, riferimenti e 
chiarimenti accumulati nelle note. Concludendo l’introduzione, scrivono: “Con le note 
abbiamo voluto mettere a fuoco i problemi critici che Giraldi intendeva affrontare e 
indicare quali erano gli strumenti culturali di cui si ¢ servito per cercare di risolverli” (26). 
Le note costituiscono altrettanti punti di riferimento obbligati: sia per quanto riguarda le 
fonti sfruttate da Giraldi, sia per identificare 1 componimenti presi a mo’ d’esempio nel 
testo, sia per chiarire l’articolazione del pensiero e dell’argomentazione giraldiani. In 
questo senso risultano estremamente opportune anche le sezioni in cul i curator! hanno 
diviso il testo e a cul hanno apposto “un titolo indicativo del contenuto” (26). Il Discorso 
diventa cosi accessibile anche a chi non sia abituato a leggere testi teorici del sedicesimo 
secolo. 

Gia tutto cid sancirebbe la necessita di questa edizione. Tuttavia (e al di la delle 
ragioni culturali e storiche a cui ho gia fatto riferimento), esiste un’altra importante 
motivazione di ordine testuale, messa in luce dai curatori nell introduzione: “La Biblioteca 
Ariostea di Ferrara é in possesso di una copia [dell’edizione del 1554] nei cui margini 
Giraldi, forse con l’intenzione di apprestare una seconda edizione, ha redatto delle 
correzioni e delle aggiunte, a volte estese, sfortunatamente parzialmente distrutte da una 
legatura settecentesca” (25). L’edizione seguente, uscita nel 1864 per i tipi Daelli, include 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 373 


“tra virgolette le osservazioni autografe di Giraldi” (25), che perd, a causa delle loro 
lacune, risultano a volte inintellegibili. Infine, “nel 1973 Camillo Guerrieri Crocetti ha 
curato una terza edizione del Discorso” (26), in cui ha inserito alcune aggiunte manoscritte 
nel testo ed altre in nota. Di conseguenza, notano Benedetti, Monorchio e Musacchio, “ci 
troviamo di fronte a un’edizione arbitraria che non rappresenta né il Discorso che € stato 
pubblicato da Giraldi né quello che avrebbe potuto esserlo, ma un ibrido dei due” (26). La 
necessita di una nuova edizione é¢ quindi evidente. In essa, 1 curatori si sono limitati a 
riprodurre il testo cosi come apparve a stampa nel 1554, integrato con le indicazioni 
giraldiane presenti nell’*Errata corrige” della medesima. 

Oltre al lavoro editoriale e di commento, le note offrono numerosi spunti di 
riflessione. | curatori ad esempio indicano che la metafora del corpo umano applicata alla 
struttura di un poema deriva da fonti classiche (Platone e Cicerone, 48n38); tuttavia, 
suggeriscono, pud essere collegata anche agli studi di medicina di Giraldi (48n39). 
Altrove, i curatori sottolineano il legame tra il Discorso e il redigendo Ercole, contributo 
giraldiano al genere letterario preso in esame in questo trattato (“interrotto al canto XX VI 
e pubblicato solo nel 1557” [40n20]). Benché “sembri che al momento di comporre il 
Discorso dei romanzi Giraldi fosse ancora e soltanto nella fase della concezione del suo 
Ercole” (56n56), i riferimenti sono innegabili e frequenti: “Esplicitamente scritto come 
una difesa dei poemi cavallereschi, il discorso di Giraldi sembra invece rivelarsi, a noi se 
non al suo autore, come una invocazione o una profezia di un poema diverso, in fieri 0 non 
ancora scritto, il suo Ercole o la Gerusalemme Liberata” (41n22). | curatori segnalano le 
continuita tra trattato e poema giraldiani quanto alla struttura del racconto (53n48 e 
57n58), alla scelta del protagonista e dell’azione narrata (40n20 e 46n34), alla necessita 
della presenza della voce del narratore (76n90), e infine alla liceita di introdurre nella 
vicenda divinita pagane (109n163). Inoltre, alcuni esempi specifici sono tratti da fonti che 
presumibilmente Giraldi stava accumulando per il suo poema (78n91, 86n111, ¢ 101n147). 
Due delle sezioni conclusive, intitolate rispettivamente “Avvertenze per gli autori di 
romanzi” (210-13) e “Ultimi consigli® (215-17), acquisiscono in questo modo una 
rilevanza particolare: il trattato sembra rivolgersi sia al “discepolo” (29) e “figliuolo” (31) 
Pigna, sia all’autore stesso, quasi un vademecum per la redazione di un poema eroico 
superiore a tutti i precedent. 

L’“Errata Corrige” che accompagna la presente edizione critica € necessaria in quanto 
i refusi, presenti soprattutto nelle note e attinenti principalmente ai termini letterari greci, 
mal si conciliano con la qualita sia intellettuale che grafica del testo. L’ottimo lavoro di 
Benedetti, Monorchio e Musacchio rende disponibile un testo difficilmente reperibile, 
ingiustamente dimenticato, e ricco di suggestioni. Per la sottoscritta, alcuni dei filoni che 
potrebbero essere esplorati con profitto nel quadro culturale e letterario della meta del 
sedicesimo secolo sono il rapporto tra pittura e poesia (l’oraziano “ut pictura poésis” 
presente in varie sezioni, specialmente verso la fine del trattato); il legame tra letteratura 
scritta ed orale (come del resto sottolineano i curatori, 123n196); ed il collegamento tra 
letteratura ed emozioni da essa provocata nel lettore o uditore. Altrimenti detto, questa 
edizione del Discorso dei romanzi non solo colma una lacuna editoriale, ma servira da 
punto di partenza per studi tanto innovativi quanto necessari. 

Maria Galli Stampino, University of Miami 


374 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Mark W. Roskill. Dolce’s Aretino and Venetian Art Theory of the Cinquecento. 
Toronto: Toronto UP, 2000. Pp. xiii + 354. 

This volume consists of three parts: the Introduction which outlines Dolce’s life and 
character, the theory of art and its sources, and the relationship between Dolce and 
Aretino’s milieu; a second part which presents the text and translation of Dolce’s Dialogue 
accompanied by a number of corroborating documents; and a third part which provides a 
commentary to the second section. The three parts are interconnected, and Roskill’s 
volume is exceptionally well structured in an organic unit, providing full supporting 
material — in the form of explanatory notes and historical information — to illustrate 
Dolce’s poetics and the rapport with Central Italian artists of the Cinquecento. Though 
Dolce displayed little originality of thought in the texts which he published on the subject 
of painting (but also on other areas of interest as, for example, his treatises on gems and on 
memory), Dolce found himself involved in literary and artistic debates at a very important 
period of the Italian Renaissance. He was born in 1501 and died in 1568, and he had 
dealings with, both in person or through letters, or pronounced himself on some of the 
most prominent figures of the times: Aretino, Sansovino, Tiziano, just to mention a few. 
His Dialogo della pittura first appeared in Venice in 1557, and on the elaborate title page 
appears the name by which it is usually known, L'Aretino. The Dialogue itself can be 
summarized in the following manner: a discussion on the nobility of painting set in an 
historical framework outlining all the elements which lead to an artist’s perfection, a 
plethora of examples illustrating the elements just presented, and, finally, an homage to 
Titian whom Dolce defines “divine.” 

Within the Dialogue appear some interconnecting themes. The main ones are: the 
enunciation of a philosophical system reminiscent of the strand of Platonism which Dolce 
had come to appreciate through the writings of Cicero and Bembo, and the comparison 
between Raphael and Michelangelo (within the parameters set in the theoretical section), 
as well as the evaluation of other leading artists of the the Cinquecento, from Giorgione to 
Titian. In short, the Dialogue, though not providing any original thoughts on the subject of 
painting, belies Dolce’s tastes and prejudices, and reveals the background reading which 
led to the composition of the treatise. What emerges is a picture of an intellectual who was 
versed in many genres — Dolce was also the author of comedies and tragedies, and we 
owe to him the appellation “divina” which accompanied Dante’s Commedia after the 1555 
Venetian edition — and who participated in the cultural debates of the times, including the 
one on language: vulgar vs. Latin, prose vs. verse, when it came to the writing of erudite 
comedies. In the Dialogue one can identify in his fourth principle of good painting — after 
he had illustrated the first three (invention, design, color) along the model of ancient 
rhetorical theory — a point of departure: namely, Dolce states that the work of art should 
stir the spectator emotionally, a statement which, however, had been previously formulated 
for literature by Horace and Quintilian. 

What, indeed, appears as being very pertinent in assessing Dolce’s Dialogue is his 
rapport with Aretino and the latter’s circle, a rapport which is closely tied to this appraisal 
of other Cinquecento artists. Among these, Vasari plays a prominent part. What Dolce says 
about Michelangelo is partly based on Vasari; what Dolce puts in Aretino’s mouth in the 
way of critical comments towards Michelangelo seems to be extrapolated from Aretino’s 
correspondence with the artist. It must be remembered that Aretino was piqued about his 
failure to secure a gift from Michelangelo at the time when the artist was painting 7he Last 
Judgment. Dolce’s relationship with Aretino is helpful in establishing a genesis of the 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 375 


Dialogue. There was first a close relationship between the two when Dolce was invited to 
work on the publication of the Lettere, and this period peaked in 1541-1542. After 1542 
the rapport between the two men lost momentum, coinciding with Dolce’s awareness that 
Vasari had not adequately dealt with Titian’s artistic achievements; hence the need, 
perhaps, to correct and to end the Dialogue with an encomiastic note. The evidence 
provided by the letters to Ballini and Contarini (added at the end of the Dialogue by 
Roskill) points to 1544-1555 as the possible date of formulation of the Dialogue, which 
Dolce probably completed shortly after Aretino’s death in 1556. According to Roskill, this 
event added the following purpose to Dolce’s work: “It could serve as a memorial to 
Aretino’s acumen in artistic affairs and his career as an impresario. So, with this new 
intention very much in the front of his mind, he made appropriate additions and changes. 
The work in hand became a Dialogue, with Aretino as the speaker in charge throughout 
most of its length” (40). 

From the interaction between Dolce, Vasari, and Aretino, Roskill puts forward, in the 
final section of the Introduction, some very perspicacious comments about the artistic 
relations between Venice and Central Italy in the years 1550-1557; Appendix B provides 
further illustration. Roskill sustains that there are some elements in the Dialogue which 
reflect Aretino’s outlook on art at the time when Dolce was in close touch with him. These 
elements can be extrapolated from Dolce’s comments on Francesco Crivello, based on the 
comparative distinction between Venetian and Central Italian painting. From these 
comments one surmises that Dolce felt that the two poles of an imaginary geographical 
axis representing painting were Vasari and Aretino, and that Venetian and Central Italian 
art “could move forward in a constantly renewed parallelism, complementing and 
reinforcing one another” (46). In Appendix A, Roskill sets out the subsequent fortune and 
influence of the Dialogue, which are to be appreciated also in the light of Vasari’s 
alterations and critical insertions about Venetian art in the 1568 edition of the Vite. 

Both the Introduction and the two appendixes are enriched by extremely useful notes 
while the Preface to the Reprint of this volume (first published in 1967) highlights some of 
the points, both in critical approach and difficulties in translation, which have surfaced 
since. As a last observation in this otherwise flawless presentation, it can be said that while 
the update of recent research finds its way into the Preface to the Reprint, a bibliographical 
note at the end of the volume would have facilitated the consultation of the texts quoted. 
The mix of prose and verse opted for in this reprint makes the volume more faithful to the 
original, while the translation amendments enhance the readability of the text among those 
who cannot appreciate Dolce’s original. Given the ever-present interest in the relationship 
between visual arts and literature, and specifically in the role of ekphrasis in modern 
criticism, Roskill’s volume — in the tradition of his earlier work, The Interpretation of 
Pictures (1989) — adds insight into the complex and rich period of Italian art as it was in 
Dolce’s times. 

Bruno Ferraro, University of Auckland, New Zealand 


Paolo Cherchi. La metamorfosi dell’Adone. Longo: Ravenna, 1996. 

In this book Paolo Cherchi extends an(other) invitation to read the L 'Adone carefully, with 
critical and theoretical sophistication and with an appreciative eye toward the pioneering 
work of Giovanni Pozzi, Francesco Guardiani, and other Marino critics of the last decade. 


376 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Adopting in part the scheme of the Lectura Marini, Cherchi offers close readings of the 
last four cantos of L'Adone, devoting one chapter each to Cantos 17, 18, and 19 and two 
chapters to Canto 20. In the appendix Cherchi collects over fifty miscellaneous notes, most 
of which were previously published, on some of the most obscure passages in the poem, 
notes which he characterizes humbly as additions to Pozzi’s already substantial 
commentary. 

As the title indicates, the main theme of the book is Marino’s treatment of the literary 
phenomenon of metamorphosis, and Cherchi’s examination of metamorphosis in L 'Adone 
is closely tied to his appraisal of the effect of repetitions and analogous stories that 
accumulate in the poem. Using his interpretation of the Fiammadoro/Austria story of 
Canto 20 (first set forth in Guardiani’s 1989 edition of Lectwra Marini) as his starting 
point, Cherchi argues that Marino crafts the poem such that in the late cantos the poem 
itself becomes the object of metamorphosis. As one moves to the second half of the poem, 
which Cherchi defines as extending from Canto 15 to Canto 19, the poem devolves, sheds 
many of its former concerns, and veers increasingly toward a compromise between its 
interests in the historical and mythical worlds. Canto 20, Cherchi posits, constitutes a third 
part of the poem, in which this tension between the historical and mythical elements is 
somehow resolved in Adonis’s double (non)status as mythical object of metamorphosis 
and epic hero. 

In his methodology one feels the strong influence of the Chicago Aristotelian school 
of criticism, in that Cherchi begins with his reactions to the poem and then tries to justify 
them by looking carefully at the aspects of the poem’s structure and technique that might 
have provoked his impressions. Hence, Cherchi combines a type of reader response 
criticism with very close reading, insisting throughout on Marino’s careful calculation in 
his construction of the poem. Cherchi often generously walks the reader through the poem, 
pointing out its important structural aspects and rhetorical strategies. While this method 
may at times make the analysis appear digressive and may obscure Cherchi’s main 
arguments, it has two principle advantages. First, it permits Cherchi to remind even the 
seasoned reader of Marino of the wealth of important detail contained in the poem, and 
second, it allows Cherchi to exercise more fully his critical eye on its manifold turns. 

In Chapter 1, “I] dopo-poema e la metamorfosi d’Adone,” Cherchi develops the idea 
that the poem itself is the object of metamorphosis. Borrowing Pozzi’s division of the 
poem into two parts, Cherchi begins to disclose the subtle differences between these two 
“symmetrical” halves. This procedure involves a close reading of the poem’s abundant 
repetitions and seemingly superfluous examples. Holding that the two parts of L'Adone 
cited by Pozzi are not identical, Cherchi posits that the supposed “duplication” in fact is 
part of the diminution of the poem, its “svalutazione” or “smontaggio.” The differences 
between these “symmetrical” parts reveal the fact that the narrative creates only to 
abandon (or forget) what it has created. This act of self-abandonment, Cherchi holds, is 
close to “metamorfosi’(12). To describe the movement of the poem Cherchi uses a 
metaphor of self-consumption, saying that Marino’s poem burns its own motors and uses 
them for fuel. He pursues this self-consumptive analogy in his discussion of Canto 20, in 
which he posits that the canto is born “dalle ceneri del poema che si é chiuso con la morte 
d’Adone’(12). Thus, two different metamorphoses of the poem are posited: first, in the 
gradual degradation of the poem from Part I to Part Il, and second, in the marvelous 
resolution/resurrection of the poem in Canto 20. 

Cherchi’s analysis of Canto 20 relies on his close reading of the whole poem. One of 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 377 


the central points of Marino’s poetics is his denial of absolute values or points of reference 
on which the reader could base an analysis. Main characters like Venus and Cupid are 
portrayed in such contradictory ways as to escape psychological explanation. This 
“svalutazione degli assoluti” is detectable on many other levels as well throughout the 
poem. The description of Cyprus is subject to radical changes, and the valuation of Adonis 
as the central character of the poem and the Venus/Adonis relationship as the central 
relationship also gets blurred as one moves through the poem. Indeed, turning to the plot 
of the Venus/Adonis story, Cherchi writes that Canto 20 serves to relativize this 
supposedly pivotal story, “[...] a farne soltanto una storia fra le tante’(16). Cherchi also 
disputes the other apparent absolute value of the poem, the inevitability of Adonis’s death, 
showing that even his death is relativized both by the unorthodox representation of the 
funeral games depicted there, and by the stories of Austria and Fiammadoro that resemble 
the tragedy of Adonis. In many ways the dramatic story of Austria and Fiammadoro takes 
the place of Adonis’s, and ironically they make us forget about Adonis. Yet because they 
double the story and the character of Adonis, the poem is revealed not to have abandoned 
Adonis. Rather, he has been transformed, moved out of the purely mythological world into 
history. This, says Cherchi, is Adonis’s metamorphosis. 

Chapter 2, “Due postille al dopo-poema,” sets out to explore two aspects of Marino’s 
creative process that are especially visible in Canto 20 — the names and colors he uses to 
describe the pageantry of the games. Because the games have no source, Marino had to 
invent the names of his many contestants. Cherchi shows that the “onomastico” principle 
that the name reflects the person operates in this canto by tracing the names to their 
etymological roots. Cherchi holds that the symbolic names serve as a kind of shorthand, a 
condensed code to transform stories into spectacle. The colors of various knights have a 
similar function of reducing stories to their basics: the colors “essenzializzano storie.” Yet 
implied here is a loss of complexity and a tension between the historical thrust that the epic 
catalogues are meant to suggest and the mythological reduction of history to archetypes: “I 
personaggi tendono a scomparire trasformandosi in una macchia di colore o nel simbolo di 
un nome’(48). 

In Chapter 3, “II distacco e l’inutile rimedio,” Cherchi develops the theme that the 
poem becomes the object of metamorphosis in its late cantos. Canto 17 is called “una 
specie di commentatore che trasforma |’energia ricevuta in qualcosa di nuovo.” Cherchi 
posits that the poem’s plot takes a decisive turn in Canto 17 with the second separation of 
Venus from Adonis. The motives for the separation, he holds, reflect the devolution of the 
poem. Unlike the previous, “parallel” separation of Canto 12, this one is motivated not by 
any real external pressure (the earlier one was caused by the real threat of a jealous Mars) 
but by the boredom of the two lovers. Indeed, the love story of the couple begins to 
dissolve and the two characters return to their “first” loves, Venus to being a worshiped 
goddess, Adonis to hunting. Importantly, this unraveling of their story is not a point of 
psychological exploration for Marino, but rather part of the poem’s larger poetics of 
spontaneous self-transformation. The second part of the canto, Proteus’s prophecy of 
Adonis’s imminent death and Venus’s vertiginous flight in search of a cure that would 
save him, reflects the radical discontinuity between the first part of the poem and Cantos 
16 to 20, for Venus forgets her incapacity to give Adonis immortality. It also mimics the 
poem’s larger theme of spontaneous plot reversals and dizzying movement. 

Chapter 4, “La morte.” shows how the poem continues its self-metamorphosis by 
diverting itself from the supposed climax of the drama, the death of its main character. It 


378 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


accomplishes this transformation through repetition, delay, and digression. The long series 
of emotional laments over Adonis, even before he has truly died. ironically flattens the 
drama of Adonis’s death through repetition and extension. According to Cherchi, the 
Adonis story “tanto stiracchiata finisca col perdere il pathos che si prevedeva’(76). What 
should be the climactic point of the canto and the whole poem is minimized by the delay 
and the preponderance of intermediary scenes and narratives. The search for those 
responsible for Adonis’s death, which constitutes the later part of the canto, further blurs 
the focus on Adonis’s tragedy. Moreover, both Venus and Adonis, Cherchi points out, 
seem to erase their own love story. Venus is unwilling to blame herself for Adonis’s death, 
and she is late in mourning him. And in Adonis’s last words, he admits his disobedience, 
but ironically, in this poem on love, has no dying words of love for Venus. The mutual 
resistance of the characters toward each other shows how the Venus/Adonis story is 
relativized (“relativizzata”) by the construction of the plot and Marino’s characterization. 
Finally, when Cupid enters the scene to comfort Venus, he brings with him an 
exaggerated, comic element that further reduces the drama of the scene. 

In Chapter 5, “La metamorfosi,” Cherchi tries to justify his impression that the poem 
seems to be dissolving by examining the structure of Canto 19 in which, he holds, one 
feels the “aria di smantellamento”(94). His analysis focuses on the subtle movements in 
the series of seven tales meant to console Venus. In fact, these tales divert the reader’s 
attention away from the principal story and make one forget Venus and Adonis. What 
should be a climax, Adonis’s metamorphosis, is relegated to a secondary role. All the 
stories end with a metamorphosis. The accumulation of these metamorphoses “dilutes” the 
phenomenon, and thus minimizes the effect of Adonis’s metamorphosis that follows. Yet 
the series is more complex than simply a string of equivalent stories. As one moves 
through the stories, Cherchi shows that the focus seems to shift increasingly away from the 
tragic love story of Venus and Adonis until one arrives at Achilles’s story where the 
relationship of mother to warlike son has little connection with the relationship between 
Venus and Adonis. In fact, with Ceres’s narration of Polyphemus’s story, Cherchi notes 
“una calcolata digressione”(96). Situated as the middle of the stories, Ceres’s account of 
Polyphemus’s victimization by Ulysses becomes an important theme that begins to turn 
the stories from myth to epic, ultimately leading to Thetis’s story of the epic hero, 
Achilles. Despite the superficial similarity between Adonis and Achilles — both are 
hunters who have portentous futures and try to evade them — the figure of Achilles looks 
back to Polyphemus as another victim of Ulysses and, generally, to the epic tradition. This 
link between Adonis and the epic world is completed, in Cherchi’s view, by Achilles’s 
connection with Austria and Fiammadoro of Canto 20: “Achille é¢ anello di raccordo che 
lega Adone ai personaggi che lo reincarnano, il ponte di passaggio fra mondo mitico e 
mondo epico’(111). Thus, as L’Adone, the “mitologico-amoroso” poem, nears its end, it 
starts to get transformed into something else. Yet Marino controls the “metamorphosis” so 
that the poem does not completely abandon its mythological bearings. While Adonis is 
celebrated as an epic hero with the construction of an elaborate tomb, Marino salvages the 
mythological story by having Adonis’s heart torn out of him; the heart will become the 
object of the mythical metamorphosis into a flower. In this way at least three 
metamorphoses occur in this canto: first, Adonis is transformed into an epic hero and his 
love story with Venus is effectively erased from history (interestingly, on Adonis’s tomb, 
there is nothing of the story of Venus and Adonis); second, his heart is transformed into a 
flower; and finally, the poem moves from the purely mythological toward a blend of myth 





“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d'italianistica 19 (2001) 379 


and history. 

It is difficult to convey in this brief space the wealth of observations Cherchi makes 
on individual parts of the late cantos. He is especially adept at placing the poem in its 
literary context, as in his treatment of Marino’s “sfida” of Ovid and Tasso. And his 
discussion of the role of Polyphemus’s story in Canto 19 and the cyclops’s connection to 
the love lyric tradition is especially original and convincing. Yet the book aims at 
understanding the poetics of Marino’s poem on its broadest scale as well, and Cherchi 
succeeds in providing a coherent, highly cogent theory of the movement and design of 
L’Adone. Scholars interested in exploring Marino’s poetics will have to grapple with the 
subtle and original vision that Cherchi sets out here. 

Thomas E. Mussio, Fairfield University 


Pietro Verri. “Manoscritto” per Teresa. Seconda edizione a cura di Gennaro 
Barbarisi. Milano: Edizioni Universitarie di Lettere Economia Diritto, 1999. Pp. 
Xxxiii, 319. 

Il Manoscritto per Teresa, pubblicato per la prima volta nel 1983 da Gennaro Barbarisi 
presso Serra e Riva, e riapparso nel 1999 in ristampa anastatica presso le edizioni 
universitarie di Lettere Economia Diritto, contiene una serie di testi scritti da Pietro Verri 
per la figlia Teresa — la storia del proprio matrimonio con la madre di lei, Maria 
Castiglioni; la storia dell’infanzia di Teresa; e una serie di consigli di natura morale, i 
Ricordi a mia figlia Teresa (unico fra questi testi ad essere noto in precedenza, in una 
versione peraltro rimaneggiata). 

Raccomanderei iI libro a coloro che conoscono poco |’illuminismo lombardo e, per 
diverse ragioni, a coloro che presumono di conoscerlo bene. | primi, nel Manoscritto per 
Teresa, troveranno un documento significativo del razionalismo a cui si rifacevano gli 
illuministi milanesi. Verri non parla neppure di razionalismo, ma di una “ragionevolezza” 
che lui e Maria esemplificano su uno sfondo contrastante di superstizione 0 passionalita, e 
confusione. Maria “aveva idee placide ma chiare™ (5); “niente in lei si faceva per impeto o 
scossa’; l’organizzazione era la base della sua prudenza e “le virth non sono mai tanto 
sicure quanto appoggiate a simile fondamento” (6); i suoi sentimenti erano “‘affettuosi 
senza nulla di romanzo” (14). La ragionevolezza di Maria e di Pietro non € avversa alla 
religione: lei resta affezionata alle monache che I’hanno educata (4), e mantiene un 
confessore; lui si rifa alla “benevolenza cristiana” (129) e a Dio (184-85) con passi che a 
tratti preannunciano il cristianesimo manzoniano: “volete veder Dio, riflettete al dolce 
sentimento di consolazione che provate praticando la virtu, e al ribrezzo che provate pel 
vizio.” Non parla di Dio, dice Verri, chi “comandi azioni ingiuste [ed] esigga delle puerili 
e meschine pratiche™ ma “chi vi dice siate modesta, perdonate, compatite, frenate la collera 
e la impazienza, beneficate, amate le creature del nostro padre comune” (184) [qui e 
altrove mantengo l’ortografia verriana]. Ragionevolezza vuol dire anche atteggiamento 
scientifico. Maria mori di tisi dopo cinque anni di matrimonio, e il Manoscritto mostra la 
sguardo attento con cui il marito studia i dettagli della malattia per cercare di capirla e di 
combatterla, con la speranza sempre pil tenue di guarire la malata. Le osservazioni sono 
precise, ma non distaccate: quelle di un marito affettuoso che preferisce affidarsi 
all’indagine razionale del male, piuttosto che alle reliquie e alle preghiere dei frati 
settecenteschi (65). 


380 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Scientificita ed umanita in Verri si conciliano sempre. Lo scrittore osserva la 
“prodigiosa mortalita de’ bambini che per meta moiono prima d’avere compiuto |’anno, 
mortalita che non si vede nelle razze degli animali, prova che i metodi comunemente usati 
sono pessimi” (195), e decide di far nascere e crescere i propri figli con metodi nuovi. 
Maria non usa busti di balena durante la gravidanza “perché sempre fosse libero il moto 
del feto” (98). Pietro non permette che i bambini siano lavati con acqua fredda perché 
“ogni scossa violenta in un corpo gracile e infermo [...] non pud essere buona” (102). 
L’usanza universale “d’una cosa evidentemente mal fatta — dice — non autorizza a farla”™ 
(97). Gli sposi vaccinano i due figli contro il vaiolo, e il padre segue la loro salute nei 
giorni successivi all’innesto, concludendo con tono preoccupato che il vaccino é utile, si, 
ma non procura “una cosi leggera malattia come si vuol far credere™ (135). 

Qualche volta lo scrittore immeschinisce le posizioni opposte alle proprie. Le riduce a 
una spiritualita arcigna, che soffoca i sentimenti (4), 0 a impeti esageratamente passionali, 
che oscurano la verita (7). In genere, perd, la sua contrapposizione alle passioni é pili seria. 
Se la figlia volesse diventare dotta e fare la scienziata, dice, lui le darebbe tutti i mezzi e 
tutto il coraggio necessari per riuscire, ma non la incoraggerebbe su quella via perché, dice 
anche, “io credo che non vi sia che la sola infelicita e miseria che possa spignere ad 
affrontare le fatiche e a costantemente sostenerle e senza questo sforzo continuato non si 
esce dalla mediocrita” (182). Newton, Montesquieu, Galileo, Tiziano sono degni di 
profonda ammirazione, ma il loro successo € dovuto a “persecuzioni e traversie”: “ci vuole 
la derisione, il disprezzo, l’insulto, la dimenticanza de’ nostri prossimi parenti per forzarci 
a correre il sentiero e farci arrampicare sulla scoscesa montagna”™ (182). Verri percepisce 
cosi il clima preromantico e lo streben che lo caratterizza e vi si oppone: il placido 
godimento dell’esistenza, secondo lui, va anteposto all’affannosa ricerca del vero o del 
bello. 

Raccomanderei il libro anche a coloro che presumono di conoscere bene 
Pilluminismo lombardo, e che vedono nella Milano del °700 una prefigurazione di quella 
contemporanea, con tutte le sue caratteristiche positive e negative. Le discontinuita fra il 
1781 e il 2001 in realta sono molte. Raccontando la storia del proprio matrimonio Verri 
ammette di aver avuto diverse perplessita: aveva una cattiva opinione delle donne (pensava 
infatti che ogni moglie fosse, almeno in potenza, una “tiranna e padrona dispotica,” 156); 
non era sicuro di poter mantenere agiatamente una famiglia; temeva le reazioni dei vecchi 
genitori che avevano un carattere difficile, e pensava che essi avrebbero creato delle 
situazioni imbarazzanti per sua moglie (come poi sembra che abbiano fatto). Fra le cause 
di tanta perplessita non menziona la differenza fra |’eta di Maria (ventitre anni) e la sua 
(quarantotto), e neppure il fatto che la sua sposa era anche sua nipote (la figlia orfana di 
sua sorella Teresa e del conte Ottavio Castiglioni). E difficile dire se questo scrutatore 
scientifico del mondo sdegnasse la morale corrente, non presentisse le future scoperte della 
genetica, o se evitasse di soffermarsi sui dati pit. scomodi della realta e non avesse la 
spregiudicatezza del pensiero moderno. (II Carteggio fra lui e il fratello Alessandro, curato 
da Emanuele Greppi e Alessandro Giulini, permette di ricostruire il dialogo che precedette 
e€ accompagno il matrimonio. La parentela preesistente vi appare come un problema 
soltanto per il costo relativamente alto della dispensa ecclesiastica: VI, 159-67; VII, 218- 
28 e 269-89.) 

Nell’introduzione Barbarisi ricorda che molti scritti di Pietro Verri non erano 
“destinati alle stampe ma concepiti in funzione diretta del momento” (xii). Il Manoscritto 
per Teresa fu redatto per una fruizione limitata (quella della figlia) e lontana nel tempo 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 381 


(Teresa aveva quattro anni quando il Manoscritto fu steso). Il tono intimo di una 
conversazione fra padre e figlia emerge di continuo nella voce di Pietro che dice a Teresa 
quali familiari e amici lo hanno aiutato nelle avversita, e quali no, quanto ¢ stato grande il 
dolore provato alla scomparsa di Maria, quali ragioni lo hanno spinto a risposarsi e a dare 
alla ragazza una matrigna, quali le spese sostenute in occasione del matrimonio, quale il 
comportamento migliore da tenere in diverse situazioni sociali. Per Teresa “sola lo scrissi”, 
dice Verri del Manoscritto, e aggiunge di non volere “che alcun occhio profano esamini 
uno scritto che é nato da sentimenti sacri e teneri e non é fatto per altri che per Teresa” (1). 
Questa sua volonta é€ stata evidentemente disattesa. I lettori di oggi gli possono 
rimproverare il matrimonio con una consanguinea; Verri avrebbe disapprovato la loro 
invadenza irrispettosa, che personalmente, pero, giustificherei. 

Il libro merita infatti di essere letto: ci sono momenti di genuina commozione (“il 
giorno 16 fu veramente ferale per me. Marietta essendo sola e abattutissima mi getta le 
braccia al collo e contro il suo solito da in un violento scoppio di pianto, figuratevi come 
stava io”, 60), e di alcune storie si vorrebbero conoscere piti dettagli, e gli esiti. Barbarisi 
racconta nell’introduzione la vita dei figli di Pietro e Maria: il maschio mori pochi mesi 
dopo la nascita; Teresa arrivo all’eta adulta, sposo il conte di Gambarana, si divise da lui, e 
passo il resto dell’esistenza con la famiglia di una sorella, nata dal secondo matrimonio di 
Pietro. Non si sa, invece, cosa sia accaduto alla Savina. Verri aveva assunto una domestica 
tedesca, questa Savina, per risparmiare a Teresa il tedio di imparare da adulta “una lingua 
che io vorrei sapere e che € utilissima per noi che viviamo sotto il dominio Austriaco” 
(105). Della domestica Pietro dice che “é€ veramente una buonissima donna amorosa per 
voi come se fosse una madre [...] sempre ¢ occupata di voi, 0 vi tiene sulle ginocchia o vi 
porta al passeggio, o nella carrozza, 0 canta e sempre con amore e impegno” (125). 
Risposato con Vincenzina Melzi (nobile e orfana anche lei, ventenne, poi madre di nove 
figli), Verri informa Teresa di essere “afflitto perché la Savina pazzamente rispondendo a 
mia moglie mi ha costretto a licenziarla” (140). E lultimo paragrafo delle Memorie della 
fanciullezza di Teresa, e queste sono le ultime notizie che abbiamo della donna. Censure e 
dolori frustrano lideale di ragionevolezza e la speranza di felicita di Verri. Il che non 
significa che quell’ideale e quella speranza fossero sbagliati: rileggendo gli autori milanesi 
del primo ’800 si ha l’impressione che la generazione successiva non si impegnasse tanto a 
rifiutarli, quanto piuttosto ad integrarli. 

Luciano Parisi, Roval Holloway, University of London 


Giorgio Cavallini. Torna azzurro il sereno. Nuovi studi leopardiani. Roma, Bulzoni 
Editore, 1999. Pp. 122. 

Per il bicentenario della nascita di Giacomo Leopardi, |’editoria si ¢ valsa dell’impegno di 
molti studiosi per offrire nuove analisi dell’opera del poeta, ed ha prodotto cosi nuove 
edizioni degli scritti, nonché numerosi saggi. Giorgio Cavallini, saggista dai molteplici 
interessi (basti ricordare i suoi contributi su Dante, Boccaccio, Machiavelli, Goldoni, 
Manzoni, Fogazzaro, Luzi), autore di un’edizione critica dei Paralipomeni della 
Batracomiomachia (Galatina, Congedo Editore, 1987) e del volume Studi e note su 
Foscolo e Leopardi (Roma, Bulzoni Editore, 1990), ha colto Poccasione del bicentenario 
per tornare ad occuparsi del Poeta di Recanati. I cinque saggi qui inclusi, che vertono 
prevalentemente sui Canti, sono stati scritti nel biennio 1998-99. Gli argomenti affrontati 


382 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


sono molteplici, ma quello che li accomuna € un’analisi critica acuta e molto aderente ai 
testi. 

I] volume comprende una premessa, tre schede di lettura in appendice, ed é diviso in 
cinque sezioni, ciascuna dedicata all’analisi di una particolare forma espressiva usata da 
Leopardi nei Canti. Di questi saggi, due sono inediti (“Il motivo del ritorno nella “Quiete 
dopo la tempesta’ e nel ‘Sabato del villaggio’” e “Parole iniziali e altre particolarita dei 
Canti’), mentre gli altri, gia apparsi su qualche rivista o in volume e qui rielaborati, si 
collocano all’interno di un arco critico di considerevole ampiezza. Per ciascun caso 
affrontato Cavallini procede ad una meticolosa lettura del testo, ed offre accurate 
spiegazioni spesso corredate da citazioni sia dell’opera in esame che della letteratura 
critica relativa. 

Nel primo capitolo, Cavallini analizza la rappresentazione poetica del paesaggio 
notturno, rilevando le predilezioni leopardiane per la luna e per la notte — entrambe, 
immagini cul si addicono il silenzio e la contemplazione. Cavallini esamina in modo 
esauriente tutti i riferimenti alla luna contenuti nei Canti e da tale analisi emerge la figura 
di un poeta lunare: “colui che, nella contemplazione del cielo notturno, ha saputo, meglio 
di ogni altro, coglierne e rappresentarne questo aspetto in versi memorabili” (23). La stessa 
Operazione viene fatta sul paesaggio notturno che, proprio come la luna, si rivela 
interiorizzato, e le cui manifestazioni esteriori si risolvono nella parola poetica. Quando 
poi immagine della notte si fonde con quella della luna si ha, per Cavallini, “un notturno 
che favorisce la contemplazione e la rievocazione oppure la contemplazione e 
rievocazione insieme: non come un fondale pit o meno intonato e suggestivo, ma come 
parte integrante sia della storia dell’io e della memoria individuale sia della visione 
cosmica e della memoria sovra-individuale” (34). 

Il secondo argomento trattato da Cavallini é@ la tensione dialettica del pensiero 
leopardiano. Per il critico, i binomi ricorrenti nei Canti (vita/morte, antico/moderno, 
piacere/dolore, errore/verita e cosi via), per quanto utili, non possono dar conto dello 
sviluppo del pensiero articolato, ma non sistematico, del Poeta. Esaminando attentamente i 
testi poetici, Cavallini dimostra, ancora con il supporto di numerose citazioni testuali, che 
un modo di palesarsi della dialettica é tramite la soluzione poetica del colloquio interiore, 
“nellalternanza tra Vio e il tu” (39). In questa analisi, per !’esame dei singoli stilemi 
l’autore si dedica ad indagini microtestuali, svolte anche con il ricorso alla statistica 
lessicale. Ad esempio, un’altra soluzione della poetica leopardiana per imporre uno 
sviluppo dialettico ai versi é l’uso della congiunzione avversativa ma: ricorre nei Canti 
ben 96 volte, rileva Cavallini. Un ma che pud avere valore di contrapposizione, di 
superamento o di opposizione ironica, ma la cui inserzione produce un movimento 
dialettico di grande efficacia poetica. Altra dialettica gia individuata da Cavallini in altre 
occasioni, e che viene qui ripresa in sintesi, ¢ quella tra forse e certo: soffermandosi sul 
Canto notturno, il critico scopre corrispondenza e non contrasto tra i due lemmi. 

Nel terzo capitolo viene esaminato il motivo del ritorno nei due idilli “La quiete dopo 
la tempesta™ e “II sabato del villaggio” (dal quale deriva il titolo del volume). In questo 
dittico, il ritorno trascende l’esperienza personale, evocata dal villaggio, per assumere un 
significato universale. Presi nel loro insieme, i due canti presentano strutture analoghe, ed 
il concetto alla base di entrambi é l’illusorieta del piacere. Cavallini afferma che i due idilli 
formano un “dittico del villaggio” (64), in cui il tema del ritorno permea, “sia pure in 
maniera differente ma complementare, alcune tra le pit limpide immagini e riflessioni” 
(64). 


| 








“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 383 


I] quarto capitolo, piuttosto che a un discorso critico, € dedicato a riferimenti e 
riscontri di particolarita lessicali. Le osservazioni sono disposte a seconda dell’argomento: 
gli incipit dei Canti, le coppie di aggettivi, i gerundi, gli avverbi modali in -mente e gli 
apex legomena. Alla definizione preliminare di questi tratti stilistici segue la puntuale 
verifica sul testo, che lascia largo spazio alla descrizione. In questo senso, Cavallini 
privilegia l’analisi della componente fonico-acustica, cioé del lessema e del suo contesto 
lessicale. Nonostante il loro carattere non esaustivo, le annotazioni risultano suggestive e 
sottolineano |’espressivita della poesia leopardiana. 

L’ultimo capitolo si concentra sull’attualita di Leopardi, e Cavallini vi passa in 
rassegna schematicamente I’interesse di poeti, scrittori e critici del Novecento per l’opera 
leopardiana. Nonostante la concisione di questo ritratto della fortuna critica del poeta, il 
critico riesce ad evocare la risonanza del messaggio leopardiano. Sempre attento a non 
estrapolare il poeta dal suo contesto storico, l’autore giunge alla conclusione che Leopardi 
“sia Oggi vivo e attuale anche per la tensione dialettica che ne caratterizza il pensiero e la 
poesia” (101). Bisogna aggiungere a queste affermazioni che l’apparente assenza di 
sistematicita nel pensiero leopardiano é una caratteristica definitiva della sua sensibilita 
moderna, proprio perché esprime una potenziale plurivocita. Ecco perché Leopardi é “il 
pili moderno dei nostri classici” (111). 

Il volume si chiude con un’appendice costituita da tre schede di lettura. La prima é€ 
dedicata all’egregia “concordanza” compilata da Giuseppe Savoca (Concordanza dei Canti 
di Giacomo Leopardi, Firenze, Olschki, 1994), testo a cui pit! volte Cavallini ha fatto 
riferimento nelle pagine precedenti. Nella seconda scheda |’autore passa in rassegna 
l’imponente volume di Alberto Frattini Leopardi nella critica dell'Otto e del Novecento 
(Roma, Edizioni Studium, 1989). La terza scheda é ispirata dalla mostra “Leopardi a Pisa”, 
tenutasi dal 14 dicembre 1997 al 14 giugno 1998, e in occasione della quale fu pubblicato 
un pregevole catalogo (Leopardi a Pisa, a cura di Fiorenza Ceragioli, Milano, Electa, 
1997). 

In questo studio fa spicco innanzitutto una grande attenzione al testo, indagato nei 
suoi tratti di lingua e stile. Purtroppo, la voce personale del critico si perde a volte nelle 
frequenti citazioni che in alcuni casi meriterebbero un commento pili ampio. Anche se 
privo di una struttura interna ben definita, risultato inevitabile per una raccolta di saggi del 
genere, il volume offre nel suo insieme una serie di stimolanti ed accurati esercizi di 
lettura. Cavallini conclude il suo saggio (102) lasciando la parola a Leopardi, le cul 
riflessioni, affermando la propria attualita, impongono pit che mai la loro voce di fronte 
alla variegata letteratura critica emersa in occasione del bicentenario: “Della lettura di un 
pezzo di vera contemporanea poesia, in versi 0 in prosa [...], si pud, e forse meglio, [...] 
dir quello che di un sorriso diceva lo Sterne; che essa aggiunge un filo alla tela brevissima 
della nostra vita. Essa ci rinfresca per cosi dire; e ci accresce la vitalita” (Ziba/ldone, | 
febbraio 1829). 

Piero Garofalo, University of New Hampshire 


Giacomo Leopardi poeta e filosofo: atti del convegno dell’Istituto italiano di cultura, 
New York, 31 marzo-!1 aprile 1998. A cura di Alessandro Carrera. Firenze: Cadmo, 
1999. Pp. 112. 

Questo volume raccoglie gli atti del convegno Giacomo Leopardi poeta e filosofo svoltosi 
presso I’Istituto italiano di cultura di New York in occasione del bicentenario della nascita 


384 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


del poeta. Con questo contributo I’Istituto, sotto lefficace direzione di Gioacchino Lanza 
Tomasi, riconferma il proprio impegno a promuovere la cultura italiana e a incoraggiare 
fruttuose discussioni tra italianisti residenti negli Stati Uniti e in Italia. 

Superata, seppur entro certi limiti, la resistenza a riconoscere l’oggettiva fondatezza 
del pensiero leopardiano, la critica € ora sempre pill impegnata ad approfondire nuove 
chiavi di lettura per avvicinarsi ai testi. Il confronto e l’ibridazione di poesia e filosofia che 
Leopardi ha teorizzato e praticato si inseriscono nel dibattito contemporaneo sulle nuove 
forme del “fare filosofia”. In un’ottica prevalentemente filosofica, che pero tiene conto 
anche dei punti di vista della storia letteraria e dell’estetica, questo volume tenta di 
rispondere all’esigenza di un approfondimento del pensiero leopardiano. Questi saggi 
costituiscono un contributo ad una bibliografia, in costante aumento, di studi che 
valorizzano allo stesso tempo sia il pensiero di Leopardi che la sua poesia (per citarne solo 
alcuni: Antonio Prete, // pensiero poetante. Saggio su Leopardi, Feltrinelli, Milano, 1980; 
Carlo Ferrucci, Leopardi e il pensiero moderno, Feltrinelli, Milano, 1989; Sebastian 
Neumeister e Raffaele Sirri, a cura di, Leopardi poeta e pensatore; Leopardi Dichter und 
Denker, Guida, Napoli, 1997; Mario Andrea Rigoni, // pensiero di Leopardi, Bompiani, 
Milano, 1997). 

I primi tre interventi del volume si caratterizzano per la loro concisione e per le 
interpretazioni strettamente personali che sviluppano. Edoardo Sanguineti, ispirandosi ad 
un suo saggio mai pubblicato che avrebbe dovuto intitolarsi “Leopardi reazionario™, 
fantastica un brevissimo “Invito a Leopardi” (3-7), in cui individua nella rivoluzione 
francese una possibile origine dello Zibaldone. Secondo Sanguineti |’opposizione “natura 
vs. Ragione” della We/tanschauung leopardiana nasce dalla frattura tra mondo antico e 
moderno, un momento storico identificabile con la rivoluzione del 1789. Da questa crisi 
scaturisce la questione della possibilita della poesia nel mondo moderno, che Leopardi 
affronterebbe con lo Zibaldone. Sanguineti conclude leggendo una sua recente poesia 
ispirata dalla pagina dello Zibaldone “Tutto @ male...” (22 aprile 1826). Purtroppo, 
Sanguineti propone osservazioni stimolanti che pero non elabora e non documenta 
ulteriormente, probabilmente anche a causa della natura orale dell’intervento, che per la 
pubblicazione é€ stato trascritto da una registrazione audio. 

Lo studio di Franco Ferrucci, Leopardi e Kafka (9-13), tesse una rete di divergenze ed 
affinita fra questi due scrittori che a prima vista appaiono cosi diversi. Come ci ricorda 
l’autore, “non vi fu nessun punto di contatto tra i due: Giacomo mori assai prima che Franz 
nascesse e Kafka non da alcun segno di conoscere Leopardi” (9); ciononostante, Ferrucci 
intravede una specie di parentela letteraria e filosofica che li lega. Lo spunto proposto é€ 
molto interessante, ma purtroppo anche in questo caso la brevita dell’intervento non 
consente un adeguato approfondimento dell’argomento. 

Charles Wright (Premio Pulitzer per la poesia, 1997) ripropone una poesia gia 
apparsa nel suo volume The Other Side of the River (Random House, New York, 1984), 
sapientemente tradotta a fronte dal curatore, Alessandro Carrera. Pit’ che un intervento 
critico, “To Giacomo Leopardi in the Sky” (14-25) € un omaggio a Leopardi e alla sua 
importanza nella formazione poetica di Wright. Sono degne di nota le riflessioni 
preliminari sulle difficolta di traduzione dei Canti, che fanno eco anche al fondamentale 
contributo di Nicolas Perella in Night and the Sublime in Giacomo Leopardi (University of 
California Press, Berkeley, 1970). 

I tre interventi che seguono sono pit strettamente attinenti al titolo del volume. 
Giorgio Ficara, in “Sistemi leopardiani: bellezza e felicita” (25-32), indaga la consistenza 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 385 


del sistema filosofico, o meglio, il risvolto filosofico di un positivo estetico presente nello 
Zibaldone. Nell’esposizione asistematica dello Ziba/done Ficara individua nessi intuitivi 
piuttosto che un’elaborazione coordinata del pensiero non-dialettico di Leopardi. Questa 
resistenza ad un’interpretazione totalizzante porta Ficara a concludere in polemica sia con 
Alberto Caracciolo, autore di Leopardi e il nichilismo (Bompiani, Milano, riedizione 
1994), che con Emanuele Severino, autore di Cosa arcana e stupenda: |’Occidente e 
Leopardi (Rizzoli, Milano, 1997). Secondo Ficara questi due interpreti-filosofi si servono 
del pensiero leopardiano per esporre la propria filosofia: “Privi di quello spirito di servizio, 
o di semplice buona educazione, che dovrebbe animare la pagina del critico letterario, essi, 
ma soprattutto Severino, offrono un’esauriente interpretazione del proprio pensiero a 
partire da Leopardi” (32). Ficara presenta la sua critica a queste letture selettive come 
ultima osservazione, in conclusione, e l’importanza del discorso ne risulta sminuita dalla 
mancanza di ampliamento e di approfondimento. 

Il saggio di Sergio Givone, “Severino e Baldacci intrepreti di Leopardi” (33-38), 
concorda con quello di Ficara; la tesi di Severino viene ripresa e accostata alla lettura 
filosofica di Luigi Baldacci (// male nell’ordine, Rizzoli, Milano, 1997). Givone riassume 
gli antefatti storici che hanno preparato |’accettazione in Italia di un Leopardi fi/osofo nel 
contesto delle polemiche recenti. Severino ritiene che il nichilismo sia “l’essenza 
dell’Occidente” (33) e individua una contraddizione nell’identificazione leopardiana 
dell’essere e del nulla. Pur riconoscendo |’originalita e il rigore filosofico del contributo di 
Severino, Givone sostiene che il pensiero leopardiano, paradossale e in continua 
evoluzione, riesce a superare queste contrapposizioni ontologiche perché il nichilismo si 
rivela non essere effettivamente totalizzante. Nelle pagine successive Givone conferma le 
tesi fondamentali di Baldacci sull’attualita del pensiero leopardiano dal punto di vista 
politico, estetico e metafisico, dimostrando cosi, proprio come Baldacci, un approccio piu 
ragionevole alla questione Leopardi-filosofo. 

L’intervento di Paolo Possiedi, “Leopardi progressivo?” (39-50), analizza l’eredita 
politica di Leopardi e |’attualita del saggio omonimo (ma senza punto interrogativo) di 
Cesare Luporini per avviare le sue osservazioni sulla nozione di progresso in Leopardi, 
soffermandosi sullo Ziba/ldone, sul Discorso sullo stato presente dei costumi italiani e su 
“La ginestra”. Attraverso un’attenta lettura di quest’ultima, Possiedi mette in evidenza non 
solo i fondamenti, ma anche la produzione di determinati valori culturali, e in questa 
narrazione non cronologica della storia l’autore coglie l’attualita delle riflessioni 
leopardiane sul rapporto individuo-societa. 

Anche lo studio provocatorio di Thomas J. Harrison, “Leopardi, Unabomber” (51- 
58). prende in esame |’eredita politica di Leopardi, ma in una prospettiva cosi singolare 
che il saggio si accosterebbe meglio ai primi interventi del volume. Al di la della vicinanza 
tematica con il contributo di Possiedi, questo saggio sembra cosi collocato nel volume per 
motivi pratici: gli ultimi interventi, a partire da “Leopardi progressivo?”, sono gli unici a 
servirsi di note critiche/bibliografiche, e il loro raggruppamento in fondo é€ pili comodo dal 
punto di vista tipografico. Individuando le affinita fra le Operette morali leopardiane e 11 
manifesto Industrial Society and its Future di Theodor Kaczynski, detto |’ Unabomber, 
Harrison propone un Leopardi terrorista i cui scritti sarebbero delle lettere-bomba spedite 
alla societa. Secondo Harrison, il capanno di Theodor Kaczynski nel Montana ed il 
palazzo di Recanati risulterebbero assai pit’ vicini di quanto si possa immaginare. La 
proposta é stimolante, ma rimane il dubbio che la rabbia di Leopardi sia rivolta contro 
l’ipocrisia della societa e non contro |’umanita stessa — insomma, sentimenti ben lungi 


386 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


dalla malattia mentale che spinse Kaczynski ad uccidere. 

Gli ultimi due interventi segnano un passaggio marcato, nell’interesse della critica 
leopardiana moderna, da Schopenhauer a Nietzsche. Massimo Riva, in “Leopardi, 
l’inattuale: Tristano contro Zarathustra” (59-80), propone una rilettura dei testi in cui 
esamina la resistenza al progresso, ovvero |’inattualita del poeta. In particolare, confronta 
il Dialogo di Tristano e di un amico con gli aforismi dello Zarathustra. Secondo Riva, 
linattualita leopardiana consiste nell’aver articolato una triplice negazione morale: “Non 
saper nulla, non esser nulla, non sperar nulla” (63). Riva legge i Canti, insieme allo 
Zibaldone, “come |’anti-romanzo di formazione di un Tristano” (73) e conclude con un 
giudizio di consequenzialita tra la massima “Tutto é follia in questo mondo fuorché il 
folleggiare. Tutto é degno di riso fuorché il ridere di tutto. Tutto é vanita fuorché le belle 
illusioni e le dilettevoli frivolezze” (17 dicembre 1823) e la filosofia dolorosa del Tristano 
nella quale si potrebbe vedere, come aveva gia osservato Mario Andrea Rigoni, “il 
testamento stesso dell’autore” (// pensiero di Leopardi 186). Da questa attenta rilettura 
emergono un Tristano anti-Zarathustra ed un Leopardi anti-Nietzsche. 

Chiude il volume Alessandro Carrera, il curatore, che nel suo contributo, “La favola e 
il mondo vero. La questione della verita in Leopardi e Nietzsche” (81-108), colloca le 
nozioni leopardiane di “vero” e “verita” nell’ambito dell’ermeneutica nietzschiana. Per 
Leopardi, la ragione non basta per percepire la verita, ci vuole anche un sentimento 
corrispondente, infatti sembrerebbe impossibile distinguere tra verita come forma e verita 
come contenuto. Carrera analizza le conseguenze di questa affermazione e trova un 
Leopardi che é “pre-kantiano per le sue letture, ma ¢ pre-nietzschiano per la sua capacita di 
divinazione filosofica” (84). La Storia del genere umano costituisce una tappa 
fondamentale nelle riflessioni leopardiane sulla verita, e Carrera ne rileva le affinita con 
un’operetta morale nietzschiana, Verita e menzogna in senso extramorale. E questo un 
Leopardi che rifiuta collocazioni fisse nella cultura dell’Ottocento: un precursore 
dell’ermeneutica nietzschiana e un anticipatore di varie tendenze della modernita. 

Il volume, pur nella sua frammentarieta tipica delle raccolte di atti di convegni, ¢ 
percorso da trame ed intenzioni provenienti da letture comuni, e gia di per sé costituisce 
una forte testimonianza non solo dell’interesse che Leopardi suscita oggi come pensatore, 
ma anche della sua attualita nell’ambito della riflessione filosofica contemporanea. 

Piero Garofalo, University of New Hampshire 


Verina R. Jones and Anna Laura Lepschy, eds. With a Pen in Her Hand: Women and 
Writing in the Nineteenth Century and Beyond. Leeds (UK): Society for Italian 
Studies, 2000. 

This volume anthologizes a number of papers delivered at a conference on the topic of 
women and writing held at the University of Reading in 1997. The different perspectives 
and approaches of the contributors, some of whom are creative writers while others are 
professional academic critics, provide lucid and, at times, even innovative assessments of 
the impact of women’s writing on Italian literature and culture in the late nineteenth and 
early twentieth centuries. 

A brief preface by the editors of the volume provides a useful introduction to the 
eleven essays that follow. The first two essays by Giuliana Morandini and Ricciarda 
Ricorda respectively examine women’s role in the movement leading to the unification of 
the peninsula. In “Risorgimento al femminile,” writer and critic Morandini argues that 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 387 


women’s participation in the Risorgimento added to the national political dimension a 
commitment to bring about a society based upon equality between groups separated by 
class and, most importantly, gender. Hence, women not only fought next to Garibaldi, but 
also remained strong adherents to the political and social vision of Mazzini. This double 
allegiance to the cause of the nation and of a nascent feminism did much to promote the 
emergence of “racconti inchiesta,”’ such as Jesse White’s La miseria in Napoli and 
Marchesa Colombi’s /n risaia, where the Risorgimento acquires an overt sociological 
dimension. Ricorda’s essay, “In viaggio fra Occidente e Oriente: Cristina di Belgiojoso 
scrittrice e saggista,” confirms several of the observations made by Morandini. Through 
the examination of the life and works of the Princess of Belgiojoso, including Souvenirs 
dans I|'exile and Vita intima e vita nomade in Oriente, Ricorda firmly locates a sustained 
and consistent social commitment. This commitment is revealed in Belgiojoso’s 
implementation of pragmatic reforms in her land in Locate in 1843, and in her active 
endorsement of education and equality as important means for both western and oriental 
women alike to achieve a status equal to that enjoyed by men. Once again, through the 
works of women writers, the Risorgimento emerges as a battle for emancipation, renewal 
and, ultimately, the victory over centuries-old patriarchal structures. Yet mirroring the 
historical destiny of the Risorgimento at large, the aspirations of many women were short 
lived, as two subsequent essays by Ferraris and Caesar suggest. In a promising yet 
regrettably short piece titled “I giornali femminili della meta dell’ottocento,” Angiola 
Ferraris argues that with the formation of the unitary state, many women’s presses took a 
reactionary turn and began to promote the conservative systems of values and ideals that 
had been common in pre-Risorgimento society. Ann Hallamore Caesar’s “Proper 
Behavior: Women, the Novel, and Conduct Books in Nineteenth-Century Italy,” 
complements Ferraris’s analyses and explores the role of conduct and etiquette books in 
creating normative models of behavior for women in the 1880s. The works of many 
women writers, including Serao, Neera, Guidi, and Beri, share this general reorientation 
and promote models of femininity profoundly traversed by patriarchal values and 
assumptions. Against the bleak panorama outlined by Caesar, Marchesa Colombi’s “Una 
vocazione” and Neera’s L’indomani emerge as valiant, if not radical, counter-cultural 
responses. 

Both Neera and Marchesa Colombi are again the subject of two other essays of this 
anthology: Francesca Sanvitale’s “Neera, scrittrice della Nuova Italia” and Emmanuelle 
Genevois’s “L’esperienza verista nell’opera della Marchesa Colombi.” Seeking to rescue 
Neera’s work from charges of reactionary and conservative politics on the part of some 
critics, Sanvitale argues that Neera’s endorsement of traditional values should be read as 
an attempt to move beyond a feminism of sameness towards the creation of a space of 
specificity and difference. Since novels such as Lydia and L'amutleto textualize a will to 
develop a woman’s symbolic order that is no longer dependent upon male-created models, 
they should be read, according to Sanvitale, as early examples of the tension animating 
contemporary feminism. Genevois’s piece focuses upon Marchesa Colombi’s collection of 
short stories Senz'amore. As in the case of Sanvitale, Genevois also prompts the reader to 
reassess the significance of nineteenth-century writings by women. Her article suggests 
that Marchesa Colombi’s Senz'amore not only represents an important example of 
verismo, but even surpasses it by casting the poetics of impersonality within a framework 
of social critique. 

The remainder of the essays focuses on women’s writings in the early twentieth 


388 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


century. Adalgisa Giorgio’s “A Room of One’s Own: Gender and Genius in Annie 
Vivanti’s / divoratori” analyses the paradoxes of early expressions of feminism. While the 
advent of modernity brings about a more equitable condition for women, it also forces 
them to face the conflict between their public and private roles and aspirations. In 
Giorgio’s assessment, Vivanti’s novels are a paramount exemplification of this condition. 
In / divoratori, for example, the emancipatory potential of the character of Nancy clashes 
with her personal desires and ultimately forces her to choose between vocation and 
motherhood. Yet Giorgio does not fault Vivanti for her message, but suggests that these 
contradictions are still very much part of women’s lives almost a century later. The topic 
of the challenges associated with twentieth-century feminism also informs the essay that 
follows: “Modernity and Gender-Role Conflict in Maria Messina” by Lucienne Kroha and 
Alexandra Haedrich. Unlike her literary mothers, including Neera, Matilde Serao, and 
Marchesa Colombi, Maria Messina’s oeuvre belongs to Modernism and therefore to the 
generation of Pirandello, Tozzi, and Svevo. As in the case of those writers, Messina’s 
novels focus on the crisis of subjectivity but relocate it within an explicit gendered context. 
This is a context where women no longer appear willing to live up to traditional female 
roles but, at the same time, are incapable of achieving their public aspirations. Not 
surprisingly therefore, Messina introduces the theme of the “inept woman” to structure the 
predicaments of her female characters. 

While the essays by Giorgio, Kroha, and Hendrich examine the tensions animating 
women’s prose narrative, the last three pieces of this anthology focus on other genres. In 
“Tradition and Innovation in the 1880s: Annie Vivanti and Contessa Lara,” Emanuela 
Tandello argues that while the dialogic space of the novel allows the female author to 
express counter-cultural concerns and beliefs, the more subjective voice of poetry forces 
her to assume very conservative positions. This phenomenon is particularly evident in the 
cultural production of efa umbertina where the thematic universe of women poets seems to 
rotate mostly around the private themes of domesticity and melancholia. Without 
attempting to reevaluate aesthetically this production, Tandello nonetheless suggests that 
some of the poems included in Vivanti’s Lyrica and in Contessa Lara’s Versi reveal in 
their prosaic language and thematic richness a tendency towards a number of modern 
innovations. 

The relationship between women writers and the genre of drama is addressed in the 
last two essays of the anthology. In “Cecilia Stazzone and Sicilian Theatre,” Sharon Wood 
provides a broad panorama of the topic and argues that although the theatre certainly 
resisted the woman writer, several female authors did write plays. Focusing on Stazzone’s 
works, Wood offers a broad description of a number of her dramatic pieces, while tracing 
their genealogy to the native tradition of Sicilian drama to which works by Verga and 
Pirandello belong. The final piece, “Giacinta Pezzana tra scena e pagina” by Paolo Puppa, 
examines the work of one of Piedmont’s daughters. A renowned actress as well as a 
novelist and a dramatist, Pezzana’s varied contributions allow Puppa to establish an 
interesting analogy between her work as an actress, and therefore a player of many 
personae, and her experimentation with a variety of written voices. 

An informative and at times even provocative work, With a Pen in Her Hand is likely 
to appeal to a wide audience. While feminist scholars will welcome it as an important 
addition to the growing bibliography of women’s studies, the accessibility and depth of 
most of these essays render it suitable for both graduate and undergraduate classes. 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 389 


Roberto M. Dainotto. Place in Literature: Regions, Culture, Communities. Ithaca: 
Cornell UP, 2000. Pp.viii + 178. 

With this book, Dainotto proposes to conceptualize regional literature not as the product of 
a genre in the pastoral tradition, but rather as a rhetorical figuration that seeks to recover a 
space untouched by the disrupting forces of history. From this premise, Dainotto focuses 
on a number of key texts from the Western European tradition and constructs a broad 
genealogy while establishing a convergence between the regionalist novel of the Victorian 
period and the writings of Nazism and Fascism during the period between the wars. 
Finally, Dainotto also suggests the wider implications of his analysis for literary theory, 
particularly as regards the validity of the concept of “place” in much contemporary 
thinking about culture. 

The introduction to the volume lays bare Dainotto’s episteme. The desire of 
regionalism to recover a homogeneous, cohesive sense of place and space is said to have a 
darker side. While it posits the region as a coherent whole, an idyllic site where the 
pastoral identity of land and people have survived the equalization of nationalistic forces, 
it eventually mimics what it seeks to escape. Otherwise stated, the hypotheses upon which 
regionalism rests are dangerously close to those of nationalism. For Dainotto this fact is 
not surprising since regionalism and nationalism alike are responses to clearly locatable 
cultural developments. Nationalism was an answer to the equalizing tendencies of French 
classicism, while regionalism was a form of resistance to the changes brought about by the 
Industrial Revolution, including the emergence of the masses as a historical force capable 
of radical class antagonism. Even the contemporary focus on the region as a category to 
understand differences of class, gender, and beliefs, does not seem to escape this logic. 
Dainotto observes that present day regionalism could plausibly be interpreted as a reply to 
the problems associated with globalization. Hence, both past and contemporary forms of 
regionalism not only configure the space of a common genealogy but, ultimately, converge 
in their will to arrest history while creating a reactionary fable of cultural homogeneity and 
purity. Having thus laid bare his episteme, Dainotto tests his reading strategy in the five 
chapters that follow. 

Chapter two, titled “Mapping the Country” and dedicated to Thomas Hardy’s The 
Return of the Native, begins with an insightful discussion of the map of Egdon Heath 
inserted into the 1878 Wessex edition of the novel. Hardy’s map not only suggests the 
renewed interest in space in the nineteenth-century imagination but, like the works of other 
cartographers (i.e., Dupin, Balbi, Guerry, and Quetelet), it establishes strong patterns of 
identification between humankind and the land itself. Subsequent sections of the chapter 
confirm Dainotto’s initial reading of the map. Egdon signifies the ideal British space, the 
country home uncorrupted by the forces of modernity that are antagonizing the continental 
city of Paris. Yet, when the character of Clym encounters the people of Egdon, his 
expectations are quickly frustrated and the idyllic tale is almost refashioned into a gothic 
horror, suggesting that Hardy himself was critiquing the regionalist desires of his 
generation. However, as Dainotto recalls, editorial pressures did keep Hardy from 
retaining his gloomy visions, and the novel was read not so much as a reflection upon the 
blindness of regionalism, but as an archetypal regionalist piece. 

Chapter three, “Lost in an Ancient Soul,” focuses on another work of Victorian 
England, Gaskell’s North and South, whose publication in installments began in 1854. 
Like Hardy’s novel, North and South_employs the topos of regionalism to suggest that 
England can recover from its internal division through a fusion of the modern north and 


390 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


the archaic south. This vision is solidified in the marriage of Margaret Hale, a 
representative of the southern landed order, to the northern Thornton, an emblem of 
modern society. In their union, Dainotto suggests, the opposition between labor and 
capital, land and city, southern humanism and northern capitalism which divided English 
society, is neutralized and a new, regionalist synthesis is achieved. 

While the second and third chapters of this volume address the response of the 
Victorian age to the historical forces of industrialization, the fourth chapter deals with 
modern replies to the post-industrialist northern civilization. These replies are voiced most 
effectively by D.H. Lawrence whose work explores the mechanization of the individual 
under the effects of advanced modernization. Regionalism proves to be, once again, the 
key to recovering a sense of purity and origin. Yet, this state has now been relocated to the 
Italian south, as revealed by Lawrence’s translations of Verga’s Mastro don Gesualdo and 
Cavalleria Rusticana. Through insightful close-readings, Dainotto convincingly argues 
that these translations are in effect misreadings in the sense that Lawrence, missing the 
sarcasm of Verga, turns characters into emblems of passion quite removed from what their 
author originally intended. 

The last two chapters seek to explore the connections between regionalist aesthetics 
and fascist ideology. They also provide some general conclusions to the volume. The 
fourth chapter, “The Dialectic of Region and Nation,” focuses on Giovanni Gentile’s 
attempt to revive idealistic philosophy in the positivistic age by constructing the south as a 
space of quintessential Italian-ness. Hence, Gentile’s work reveals the convergence of 
regionalism and nationalism. This same convergence is also detected in the work of 
Heidegger and specifically in the rectoral address of 1933, where the philosopher recovers 
an unadulterated German-ness in the province. The cases of Gentile and Heidegger 
provide Dainotto with concluding remarks of warning. Regionalism, in both its earlier 
Victorian formulations and its later developments during the interim war period, reveals a 
dangerous metaphysics — one which might be present in contemporary attempts to 
propose, once again, the category of “place” as a form of cultural understanding. 

An overall lucid, well-written work, Dainotto’s Place in Literature will be of interest 
to scholars of comparative literature and Italian studies. The author’s questioning of the 
validity of the category of “place” is most provocative and is likely to engage the attention 
of critical theorists as well. 

Norma Bouchard, 7he University of Connecticut, Storrs 


Stephen Gundle. Between Hollywood and Moscow: The Italian Communists and the 
Challenge of Mass Culture, 1943-1991. Durham: Duke UP, 2000. Pp 269. 

Stephen Gundle’s book is a cogent, insightful investigation of the cultural activities of the 
PCI (Partito Comunista Italiano) from 1943 until the dissolution of the party in 1991. Such 
activities are of particular interest in that they constitute a unique case among left-wing 
European parties. As Gundle argues in his “Introduction,” in contrast to similar political 
organizations, including the PCF (Partito Comunista Francese), the PC/ was the product of 
a social and political theory that did not sever the socialist struggle from broader left-wing 
rituals of integration, but always remained committed to the promotion of a variety of 
cultural activities closely affiliated with the party. The analysis of these activities is the 
focus of the seven chapters that follow. Diachronically organized, these chapters not only 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 391 


provide fascinating descriptions of the festivals, recreational activities, and publications 
promoted by the PCY, but also account for the increasing challenges that the party faced 
from the 1950s onwards, when the process of American-inspired modernization began to 
take hold. Overall, these chapters exemplify how the rigorous application of cultural 
studies paradigms can produce lucid and insightful observations on the tensions that have 
emerged in twentieth-century Italian society as a result of global encounters. 

The first chapter, titled “The Pen and the Sword,” surveys the cultural activities of the 
PCI from the return of Togliatti to Italian soil on March 1944 until 1947. Gundle argues 
that under Togliatti’s leadership, the PC/ sought to refashion its own identity by claiming 
distinctively national roots. This decision gave rise to two important phenomena. First, a 
number of young educated members of the middle-class who had been untainted by 
contact with the earlier, more Bolshevik groups of the party was selected to occupy 
positions of leadership. Among them are familiar names, including Ingrao, Alicata, 
Bufalini, Onofri, Trombadori, and Salinari. Second, next to this strategic set of 
appointments, Togliatti also carefully manipulated the legacy of Gramsci’s ideas. Thanks 
to his privileged access to Gramsci’s notebooks, he promoted Gramsci to the position of 
founder of the party, thereby erasing the role of Amedeo Bordiga, whose sympathies for 
Trotsky were at odds with the national image the party was trying to portray. Togliatti’s 
efforts, Gundle argues, paid off. Membership widened dramatically and a number of 
known intellectuals, including Della Volpe, Luporini, Banfi, Saba, and Quasimodo joined 
the PCI. Yet if these men’s presence gave the party a prestigious profile, it also marked the 
beginning of what was to become the party’s final demise, notably an inability to conceive 
of culture outside traditional frames of reference. More specifically, at a time when the 
American cultural model was beginning to give rise to modern, individualized forms of 
leisure, ranging from the consumption of material goods to the absorption of Hollywood 
fantasies, the PC/ pursued paternalistic educational objectives. For Gundle, the editorial 
policies of journals such as La Rinascita and to a lesser extent // Politecnico testify to the 
fact that the PC/ not only misunderstood the impact of the media and of the popular press, 
but sought to win consensus by promoting the merits of high culture. Given the party’s 
blindness to the new channels of consensus formation that were emerging in post-war 
Italian culture, it is perhaps not surprising that in the 1948 election the DC (Democrazia 
cristiana) won a parliamentary majority. 

Gundle’s second chapter, titled “Bread, Love, and Political Strife,” is dedicated to the 
cultural policy of the PC/ during the Cold War era. In it, he argues that the Communist 
Party could not match the propagandistic efforts of the Church and the DC. To be sure, the 
party as a whole became more attentive to the role of mass media and, as Gundle recalls, 
the “Feste dell’Unita” and other party-sponsored activities became highly permeable to the 
rituals engendered by Hollywood. Yet instead of taking full advantage of the role of the 
new channels of communication in the reorganization of society, the party more often than 
not retrenched to conservative positions. The publication of Gramsci’s notebooks between 
1948 and 1951 is therefore symptomatic of the blindness to modernity that affected the 
party, since Gramsci’s legacy of ideas became a tool, once again, to promote a national 
intellectual and cultural tradition in order to oppose the values of an increasingly 
modernized and cosmopolitan society. The analysis of this society is the focus of Gundle’s 
third chapter, “What’s Good for Fiat is Good for Italy,” which provides fascinating 
descriptions of the changes that occurred between 1954 and 1962, when Americanization 
brought a wider diffusion of prosperity, thereby eroding the bases for left-wing support. To 


392 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


be sure, as Gundle duly acknowledges, the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956 and the 
revelation of Stalin’s atrocities were important events in speeding up the process of 
Americanization and the concomitant de-politicization of culture that Italy was 
experiencing. Nonetheless, the fundamental factor in the political reorientation of society 
was the widespread belief that prosperity was now, for the first time, within the reach of 
many. According to Gundle, the PC/ leadership was keen enough to acknowledge the 
profound social changes that Italy was undergoing, and in fact introduced substantial 
modifications to its cultural policy. In 1957, for example, the efforts of the left wing led to 
the foundation of ARC/. As the Italian Recreational and Cultural Association, ARC/ 
became an important stimulus for refocusing the PC/ towards a better understanding of the 
increasing importance of leisure time as a result of social and economic changes. 
However, the challenges to the PC/ were by no means over and, as Gundle discusses in his 
fourth and fifth chapters, in subsequent decades new social and political configurations 
began the process of erosion that eventually led to the demise of the party. 

The fourth chapter, “From Elvis Presley to Ho Chi Minh,” provides a broad survey of 
the period spanning from the early 1960s to the 1970s. Internal and external events 
precipitated unprecedented changes in the PC/. As regards internal events, the death of 
Togliatti in 1964 caused a split into the center-right, which essentially upheld traditional 
positions, and the left, which was in strong favor of revision of cultural policy. This 
ideological schizophrenia was increased by the emergence of a left-wing culture outside 
the activities of the party itself, which, as we know, was solidified in the global unrest of 
1968. To be sure, as Gundle argues, the party welcomed global unrest as a sign of the 
weakness of industrial capitalism, and through ARC/ sought to provide a cultural 
infrastructure for youth, student, and labor movements to discuss the problems of culture 
and society. Global unrest continued well onto the 1970s. The left-wing interpretations of 
economic and social developments gained much ground when the oil crises and the 
ensuing recessions seemed to cast doubt on the validity of Americanization. Yet as the 
crises spread, so did the mounting threat of anarchic violence and terrorism. As a response 
to the real possibility of the collapse of the country and its institutions, between 1976 and 
1979, the PC/ refashioned itself as the supporter of the government in office. Gundle 
argues that the efforts of the PC/ contributed in a fundamental way to the defense of 
democracy. However, they also led to the disillusionment with the party that emerged 
during the next wave of protests, or the “movement of 1977.” 

Overall, these events were to foreshadow the wane of the appeal of mass parties of 
the 1980s, which Gundle addresses in the sixth chapter of his book, “Welcome to 
Prosperity.” Significantly subtitled “Economic Growth and the Erosion of Left-Wing 
Culture,” this chapter surveys the intellectual eclipse of both Marxism and the labor 
movement amid Italy’s emergence as a society of postindustrial capitalism. As 
indisputable proof of the hegemony that occurred, Gundle describes the monopoly that 
was established by Berlusconi in the publishing industry as well as in the control of 
newspapers and magazines of giants such as Olivetti, Fiat, and Montedison. Yet, showing 
once more a willingness to adapt and survive at all costs, the PC/ sought to revitalize its 
cultural policy. Taking now full advantage of the channels of mass communications, the 
PCI promoted the creation of summer activities, or “Summers,” which celebrated all the 
elements of contemporary society: the mass media, the metropolis, the free market 
economy. Nonetheless, as suggested by the evocative title of Gundle’s last chapter, “The 
Last Tango,” the “Summers” were already a sign of the profound crisis of Marxism, the 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 393 


symptom of the upcoming collapse of communism. In 1989, two years after the fated 
election of 1987 saw further decrease in the Communist vote, Achille Occhetto announced 
the creation of a reformist party. By so doing, he set in motion the process that led to the 
final dissolution of the PC/ and the establishment, in 1991, of Rifondazione Comunista. 
Gundle ends his volume with a broad assessment of the cultural project of the left, a 
project, he concludes, that was fastened on traditional notions of community. For this 
reason, it fell short of understanding how individual consumption — and therefore 
privatization — had become the key factor in economic growth and stability. Ultimately, 
then, the left could not intervene in those areas of advanced industrial societies where 
action was — and remains — needed to ensure the possibility of individual choice. 

A well-argued, intelligent, and engaging book, Gundle’s Between Hollywood and 
Moscow is a most valuable addition to the bibliography of students and scholars of 
twentieth-century Italian culture. Moreover, because this book is focused on the 
problematic response of the Italian left to the process of Americanization, it is likely to 
appeal to those interested in mapping the complex relationships that have occurred as a 
result of intercultural encounters, and will continue to emerge as a result of increasing 
forces of globalization. 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


La “difficile Musa” di Aldo Palazzeschi: indagini, accertamenti testuali, carte inedite. A 
cura di Gino Tellini, “Studi italiani” XI 1-2 (1999), pp. 342. 

I] numero monografico che la rivista fiorentina dedica ad Aldo Palazzeschi, raccogliendo 
interventi di studiosi attivi in Italia e negli Stati Uniti, ¢ strumento utilissimo per chi voglia 
seguire da vicino le pili recenti vicende critiche ed editoriali dell’ opera dell’estroso poeta e 
narratore — dagli esordi futuristi alle ultime prove degli anni Settanta — e intanto 
approfondire la conoscenza di una personalita umana e artistica tra le pil originali e 
complesse del nostro tempo. 

Di stile e di poetica si occupano 1 saggi di Fausto Curi, Anthony Tamburri, Guido 
Guglielmi e Corrado Pestelli. In Dal “saltimbanco”  all’*umorista”. Per 
un'interpretazione storica di “E lasciatemi divertire’’ (9-17), Curi legge la scoperta 
palazzeschiana primo-novecentesca (ma gia dei poeti francesi, da Baudelaire in poi) 
dell’impraticabilita della poesia operata attraverso il rovesciamento fantastico, nei termini 
dell’umorismo pirandelliano. Ne La poesia ossimorica di Palazzeschi (81-101) Tamburri 
analizza il funzionamento dei meccanismi di dissociazione di segno e significato e di 
svuotamento semantico della parola messi in atto dal poeta per obbligare il lettore a 
partecipare alla costruzione o all’individuazione del senso. In questa strategia, che 
Tamburri dimostra essere costante anche a distanza di anni, sia pure con minime 
variazioni, nei binomi ossimorici proposti (cosi serietd-allegria diventa saggezza-follia, 
dolore-gioia viene variato in genio-imbecillita e realta-fantasia), consiste la coerenza 
interna del sistema poetico palazzeschiano. La lettura di Guglielmi (G/i imperi mancati di 
Palazzeschi 103-11) intende mettere in evidenza quale rapporto esista tra la fase 
incendiaria, quella in cui il poeta edifica il proprio regno del gioco, del rovesciamento 
parodico da cui irridere il mondo, e il tono acremente polemico e originale di Due imperi... 
mancati (1920), testo in prosa in cui lo scrittore, che continua ad utilizzare tecniche di 
rovesciamento del discorso e di divaricazione umoristica della parola, si confronta con la 


394 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


realta immorale della guerra, facendosi coinvolgere nel narrato e ponendosi dalla parte 
delle vittime. Libro espressionista per Guglielmi, Due imperi... mancati si colloca senza 
dubbio nel solco della produzione precedente, ma allo stesso tempo se ne allontana poiché 
V’isolamento dell’io scrivente di fronte alla impossibilita di parentesizzare 11 mondo 
diviene radicale, cosi la sua liberta di parola e il suo disincanto, infrantisi oramai | 
meccanismi sovversivo-difensivi del controdolore. Per Pestelli, autore de // palio dei savi e 
dei normali (175-212), & necessario interrogare i testi palazzeschiani nei termini di 
continuita ed innovazione rispetto alla tradizione italiana; in particolare, per quanto 
riguarda la varia e nuova umanita dei “buffi” degli anni Trenta, il confronto € con la 
tradizione novellistica toscana che il narratore appropria per acuire ulteriormente il suo 
sguardo originale sulla vita. I protagonisti delle storie che Palazzeschi scrive presentano 
una critica a vizi e difetti della societa contemporanea portata avanti ancora una volta 
attraverso il gioco del rovesciamento; saggezza e normalita stanno infatti dalla parte di chi 
non si conforma alle norme e all’ipocrisia dominante. 

Intelligenti avvertenze ai critici sono gli interventi di Marziano Guglielminetti e di 
Marco Marchi. In // Re scoronato (19-30) Guglielminetti richiede al critico Paccortezza di 
non adagiarsi su alcun sistema interpretativo, per quanto efficace possa sembrare, perché 11 
mondo materializzato da Palazzeschi inaspettatamente, con grande e costante abilita, mette 
in questione la presunzione di assolutezza di ogni lettura. Cosi esamina // codice di Perela 
(1911) — ma anche // Re bello (1921) e Il Doge (1967) — per l’interpretazione del quale, 
piuttosto che una lettura volta a individuarvi esclusivamente caratteristiche futuriste o 
un’intenzione di parodia politica, vede produttiva l’applicazione del paradigma 
bachtiniano di rovescimento carnevalesco, anche se il rinnovamento a cui questo prelude 
non si attua nel testo palazzeschiano. In Per un 'edizione dell 'Interrogazione della Contessa 
Maria: dichiarazioni a verbale e nuovi accertamenti (213-37) Marchi critica l’edizione del 
romanzo palazzeschiano curata da Fabrizio Bagatti e pubblicata nel 1988. Attraverso 
l’esame minuzioso delle carte preparatorie conservate presso |’Universita di Firenze, egli 
dimostra l’inaccuratezza tematico-stilistica dell’edizione Bagatti (che gia aveva sollevato 
perplessita al momento della sua uscita), inaugurando dunque la ricerca per la restituzione 
corretta del testo. 

Letture tematiche delle opere in prosa e in poesia di Palazzeschi, volte ad evidenziare 
le ossessioni dello scrittore e il loro materializzarsi nel testo, sono quelle di Marino Biondi 
sul tema dell’amore (Frammenti di un discorso amoroso in Sorelle Materassi 151-74), di 
Adele Dei sullo spazio (Le case di Palazzeschi 239-59), di Ruggero Stefanini sull’istituto 
familiare e i rapporti interpersonali (Parodie e dislocazioni del nucleo familiare in 
Palazzeschi 261-75), di Francesca Serra sulla figura ricorrente della donna vecchia (“Una 
bagascia, una megéra, una stregua”’: figure di vecchia nell opera di Palazzeschi 277-93) € 
di Ernestina Pellegrini sulla morte (“La morte euforica” di Palazzeschi 295-314). Sono, 
questi, percorsi interpretativi che s’intersecano e che dimostrano la complessita, ma anche 
la compattezza dell’immaginario palazzeschiano. S’intrecciano e s’inseguono i temi 
dell’amore come passione cercata ma mai realizzata che sfiorisce il corpo della donna e la 
condanna al sogno vano; della casa come luogo da cui fuggire o in cui trovare rifugio, 
dell’opposizione tra la famiglia come istituzionalizzazione dell’amore eterosessuale e 
l’amicizia o la complicita pit libera e soddisfacente del proprio sesso; dell’ opposizione tra 
il corpo in disfacimento della vecchiaia (femminile) e quello agile della giovinezza 
(maschile), 'uno pero diventando condizione di esistenza per |’altro; infine, l’idea della 
morte come rimozione, scomparsa, volatilizzazione del corpo, che tutto rimette in gioco. 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 395 


Difficile € descrivere sistematicamente |’universo immaginato dal poeta, difficile € 
anche accedere al laboratorio dello scrittore, che se osserva se stesso nell’atto di scrivere, 
raramente ne rende partecipe il lettore. Ad aprire la porta di questo spazio pil nascosto 
aiuta il dialogo epistolare tra Palazzeschi e Giuseppe De Robertis, inedito di cui Gino 
Tellini, fine interprete e curatore, pubblica i testi finora ritrovati (Lo scrittore e il suo 
interprete. Il carteggio di Palazzeschi con Giuseppe De Robertis 31-80). Il carteggio 
documenta |’amicizia e stima reciproca dei due interlocutori, sempre improntata al rispetto 
discreto, ma rivela anche le asperita della personalita intellettuale di Palazzeschi (si veda, 
per esempio, il rifiuto di contribuire al numero della “Voce” bianca che De Robertis stava 
preparando in onore di Renato Serra all’indomani della sua morte). Testimonianza 
dell’amicizia, meno calorosa, tra Palazzeschi e Montale sono i 25 biglietti (di cui uno solo 
di Palazzeschi) che Anna Nozzoli pubblica e commenta in Eusebio, Aldino e la Mosca 
(113-50) — terza voce, ma non meno significativa, ¢ quella di Drusilla Tanzi. Di Montale, 
Palazzeschi aveva salutato positivamente la pubblicazione delle Occasioni, ragione per 
cui, secondo la studiosa, Montale avrebbe continuato ad essere, quasi per un debito di 
riconoscenza, tra i lettori pit fedeli dell’opera di Palazzeschi, come dimostrano le 
recensioni sul “Corriere della Sera” e il discorso inaugurale al convegno palazzeschiano 
del novembre 1976. E si segnala che la bibliografia raccolta da Simone Magherini in 
conclusione di volume é proprio un aggiornamento della critica sull’opera dello scrittore 
dagli anni di quell’ importante congresso. 

Curatore e autori di questo denso numero di “Studi italiani” raggiungono senza 
dubbio l’obiettivo di rendere omaggio ad Aldo Palazzeschi, promuovendo un rinnovato 
interesse critico e un’avveduta attenzione filologica alla sua opera. 

Francesca Parmeggiani, Fordham University, New York 


William Hope. Curzio Malaparte: The Narrative Contract Strained. Market 
Harborough, U.K.: Troubadour, 2000. Pp. xii + 159. 
Over forty years after the writer’s death in 1957, this is the first full-length critical study in 
English to be published on Kurt Erich Suckert, who quizzically adopted the nom-de-plume 
Curzio Malaparte, with implicit reference to Buonaparte. Despite the recent publication of 
his complete works, Malaparte is still relatively neglected by critics from his own country 
also. The present study canvasses several (not unfamiliar) reasons for this: Malaparte’s 
sheer versatility and the difficulty of assigning his works to established genre categories; 
his flair for causing political embarrassment or outrage by the stance adopted at particular 
moments, not to mention his early and fairly prolonged enthusiasm for Fascism and in 
particular for the violence it gloried in; his penchant for the sensational; his deliberate 
blurring of the boundaries between fiction and actuality; his related tendency to use 
writing as a form of action or a spur to action; and the suspicion that self-advertisement is 
close to the forefront of his practical motivations for writing. Malaparte was indeed in 
every way an “impure” writer, challenging the canons of the literary, a provocateur, a 
publicist and a polemicist, with Egon Kisch a precursor of reportage narrative, having 
much in common with Oriana Fallaci, who admired him and followed him as her early 
mentor. 

William Hope’s approach to this slippery character is to “focus on the way in which 
Malaparte’s publications were used by the author and by his readership as a means of 


396 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


deriving personal fulfilment’ (xi), drawing particularly on essays by Jacques Leenhardt 
and Pierre Maranda included in Susan Suleiman and Inge Crosman’s 1980 edited volume 
The Reader in the Text, as well as Marie Maclean’s Narrative as Performance, Peter 
Brooks’s Psychoanalysis and Storytelling and some others. These provide a sharp and 
precise but limited instrument. For how can we judge as to the author’s personal 
fulfilment, except through our own interpretation of his text, or of his comments about it? 
And who are we but rather remote readers? And who constitutes the readership of the text, 
apart from ourselves? Of the immediate readership we can glean something only through 
information on the number of copies sold, and their distribution, and through public 
discussion, mostly by reviewers, or, if we are extremely lucky, we might come across 
private discussion of the text, possibly recorded by other writers, or even by ordinary 
citizens in their more or less fortuitously preserved communications. And, as regards 
reviewers, if the writer has to negotiate a ‘narrative contract’ with the reader, then so does 
the reviewer, who may have a very precise agenda. Of the remote readership, evidence is 
likely to be even more diffuse and elusive, and as the reading context changes over the 
decades, and many of the text’s softintesi or subtexts vanish from perception, the statistical 
relevance of any one reader becomes ever more problematical. 

Hope’s method is partly hermeneutical — his own carefully researched interpretation 
of the author’s investment in the text — and partly a review of contemporary critical 
reactions, with some guesswork regarding the social composition of the readership 
proceeding in rather circular fashion by extrapolating an implied reader out of the text 
itself (e.g., “The target readership of Avventure di un capitano di sventura would 
undoubtedly have been [...]’ 34). As such, what he offers is not very different from a 
traditional storia della fortuna, but it does have the advantage of focussing very sharply on 
the author-reader relationship. Another objective which Hope pursues is that of offering 
the English reader a complete chronological survey of Malaparte’s literary career, 
including relevant biographical data, and he does this efficiently. Part of his service to the 
English reader is that he does not presume a command of Italian, and therefore provides 
lively and accurate English translations of all the material quoted. He provides a useful 
bibliography, but it does not separately name subsidiary items, such as those by Leenhardt 
and Maranda, which are important to his argument, nor is there an index of names. The 
student reading this book therefore needs to pick up footnoted references while going 
along. Also, for a survey such as this, a schematic chronology of Malaparte’s main works 
and major events in his life would have been useful. 

Right away in the first chapter, dealing with Malaparte’s La rivolta dei santi 
maledetti, which vindicates the mutineers of Caporetto as revolutionaries driven by a thirst 
for social justice, the strengths and weaknesses of Hope’s approach are evident. 
Malaparte’s provocation is clearly a challenge to the reader, a bid to find or create a 
readership, perhaps even a personal following. But does this reduce the literary act of 
publishing to a merely consumerist marketing operation? Hope’s title for this chapter is 
tellingly ambiguous: ‘The Search for a Receptive Readership.” Every writer, particularly 
one as politically engaged and action-oriented as Malaparte, must also be intent on 
persuading, on winning readers. The question is, to what extent does the writer succeed in 
this, and how, and why? In taking the "narrative contract" as something given rather than 
dynamically negotiated, Hope does not go beyond merely consumerist presumptions. 
Invoking Maclean’s notion of an ‘excluded’ readership clarifies the issue, but does not 
help to solve the problem. What this part of Hope’s argument does deliver is a very 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d'italianistica 19 (2001) 397 


scholarly, intelligent and useful review of the critical reception of Malaparte’s works as 
they first appeared, first during the upsurge of Fascism and later against the backdrop of an 
increasingly totalitarian Fascist regime — itself, of course, a strongly conditioning element 
vis-a-vis both the production and the reception of Malaparte’s writings. 

The more productive side of Hope’s argument is that which examines the projection 
of Malaparte’s own persona within this text (and those that follow in the following 
chapters). To the extent that egotistic concerns, the narrator’s assertion of his own 
intellectual and moral primacy, and a corresponding rhetorical tone, seem to predominate 
over, or at least to compete with, the intrinsic seriousness of his theme, Hope argues that 
the narrator’s integrity is impugned, he is ‘unreliable,’ perhaps not in the usual sense in 
which this critical term is used, that is, of a narrator whose viewpoint leads him or her, 
whether consciously or unconsciously, to falsify the narration either by a process of 
selection and omission or by outright deceit, but rather in the sense that Malaparte has no 
real claim to discursive authority, since he is sensed to be pursuing his own interest as 
much as, or rather than, a more general interest. In the specific instance of La rivolta dei 
santi maledetti, Malaparte presents himself as the champion of the rebellious infantrymen, 
though he was not one of them and did not in fact publicly associate himself at the time 
with their grievances and actions. This self-serving histrionic posturing is the weakness 
that (as Hope ably shows) runs through Malaparte’s entire oeuvre and does more than 
anything else to account for the suspicion and scant regard with which it has always been 
received, despite a great deal of brilliance and also a considerable amount of courage and 
independence on the part of its author. It is instructive to contrast Malaparte on the one 
hand with d’Annunzio (who kept his real-life persona relatively invisible in his literary 
works) and on the other hand with George Orwell (who used his persona as a ‘character’ 
within his reportage narratives, to be ‘the shock-absorber of the bourgeoisie’). 

Hope’s tight focus, however, denies him comparatist excursions, except with earlier 
maverick writers in the Tuscan tradition dear to Malaparte. Hope’s pursuit of the implied 
or explicitly invoked reader within the text sometimes yields good results. In /talia 
barbara, the readership constructed by the text is identified as a manicheistic political elite 
prepared to exterminate their opponents as deviants from true Italianness. Authorly 
narcissism appeals to what Leenhardt calls ‘readerly narcissism’ (38). As in the Avventure 
di un capitano di sventura, the political correlative to the literary artefact is the violence of 
Fascist squadrismo, which comes across as an end in itself no less than a means to an end. 
Malaparte’s desire to challenge, shock and discomfit the reader, as Hope demonstrates, 
leads him in Sangue to subject the reader to voyeuristic images of blood and sex which 
suggest a voyeuristic intent more generally in the writer’s work, while he maintains a 
textual posture ‘at the highest ethical and spiritual point imaginable’ (77). 

Hope only partly pursues the opportunity here to explore the implications for literature 
of the writer as immoralist. Where often a writer is a moralist posing as an immoralist, 
Malaparte appears to be a peculiarly sophisticated, yet transparent and institutionally 
unacceptable, example of an immoralist posing as a moralist. But this may be wrong, and 
it could conceivably turn out that Malaparte is pursuing a Nietzschean strategy in the name 
of a ‘higher’ morality. To say that ‘Malaparte’s art followed no set moral framework’ (75) 
seems a way of avoiding this issue. The sub-heading within Ch. 6, “The Narrator as 
Inculpable Artist,’ which addresses what are probably nearest to being masterpieces, 
Kaputt and La pelle, comes nearer the mark, as Malaparte there visibly (if not quite 
convincingly) assumes the privilege of aesthetic control. He appears all too happy to 


398 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


represent the unrepresentable. Nevertheless, a less summary examination of the internal 
semiotic structure of La pelle should have brought rewards, and a possibly enhanced 
estimate of Malaparte’s artistic stature. Hope quotes Malaparte himself, from the voice- 
over of his film Cristo proibito, as honouring his pseudonym by asserting: ‘Qualunque 
societa umana ha bisogno di sentir dentro di sé la presenza del male, per mantener vigile il 
proprio amore della giustizia e della liberta’ (127). 

If this is not mere marketing sophistry, it is serious and unexceptionable, and it is on 
these terms that Malaparte’s claims to be taken seriously as a writer have to be judged. In 
this valuable contribution, Hope examines him and finds him wanting. Malaparte 
nevertheless remains an interesting, because troubling and awkward, presence in the 
literature of twentieth-century Italy, quite possibly with lessons for the early twenty-first 
century. 

John Gatt-Rutter, La Trobe University, Australia 


Roberto Pazzi, ed. L'immaginario contemporaneo. Atti del Convegno letterario 
internazionale, Ferrara, 21-23 maggio 1999. Biblioteca dell’*Archivum Romanicum”. 
Serie 1: Storia, Letteratura, Paleografia. 291. Leo S. Olschki Editore. 2000. Pp. ix + 
196. 

'The ‘imaginary,’ as a noun, is beginning to be seen in print in English, now that the 
expression is on its way to being established in Italian and French. Sebastiano Vassalli, 
with his wellknown lexicographical bent, comments on the rise of this neologism in one of 
the talks delivered during the three-day cultural festival held in Ferrara and published in 
this volume. He titled his paper ‘Nuovi ippogrifi’ (163-65), in homage to that city's 
greatest poet, who was also the greatest exponent of imaginative freedom. Vassalli equates 
the imaginary with the imagination and is upbeat about the power of the imagination, 
seeing its most hopeful and elevating manifestation in the capacity to invent blueprints for 
ever better worlds: ‘Le utopie sono i nuovi dei e i nuovi ippogrifi’. 

It is heartening to hear the utopian imagination celebrated, and still given a place in the 
contemporary imaginary. The two words ‘imaginary’ and ‘imagination,’ however, do not 
seem to be used quite in the same way. ‘Imaginary’ seems to indicate more a shared 
mental horizon, which once, for instance, included heaven and hell, or world-wide fame 
and obscurity, but is now more likely, in the West at least, to contemplate such polarities 
as AIDS and an exclusive holiday resort, technological wizardry and subsistence in the 
underclass, race war, genocide, or global disaster and Olympic gold, billionaire status or 
religious revivalism. 

Most of the papers by the illustrious participants in the conference do in fact 
approximate to this kind of paradigm of the imaginary, and Giulio Ferroni's contribution, 
‘L'immaginario residuale’ (37-45), develops it with devastating eloquence: ‘Tutto 
l'immaginario é ridotto ad artificio’ with ‘la sparizione dell'originale.’ And he goes on: 
‘[...] si perde ogni rapporto non solo tra la copia e l'originale, ma tra I'immagine e 
l'esperienza a cui essa rinvia,’ and of this ‘proliferante vuoto’ which invades all spheres 
including the political, he laments: ‘Molti sono coloro che si esaltano di fronte a questa 
situazione.’ In a sad vindication of the prophetic role of literature, the nightmare of 
Pirandello's Serafino Gubbio nearly a century ago would seem to have become our 
everyday reality. 


| 


\| 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 399 


The challenge presented by the Ferrara conference was in fact to call on the literary 
sixth sense (what we can only call the imagination) in an act of prophecy or clairvoyance, 
a reading of a deeper reality in the bewildering phenomena which daily bombard us. 
Although it is called a literary conference, it assembled a broader constituency: Jacques 
Dupuis speaks as a theologian, Viviane Forrester as a social analyst, and James Hillman as 
a psychologist. Of the other contributions to the conference, those by Alain Robbe-Grillet 
and Tahar Ben Jelloun were lost in recording, and do not appear. 

The reader approaches such a vatic assembly expecting illumination, and this comes 
in several guises, though not, of course, in that of a definitive revelation. Hillman's piece, 
‘L'iconoclastia puritana e l'ordine del mondo americano’ (53-61), converges with Ferroni's, 
and blames his own native U.S.A. and its language, and the hyperrealism of its 
representational codes as the source of the hypertrophy of simulacra, in place of real 
images, which constricts any truly creative imagination. The need, he says, is to 
‘ricostruire una cosmologia.’ Roberto Zecchi's “Contro I'immagine’ (167-72) chimes in, 
with a condemnation of the globalization of virtual reality, which is the death of artistic 
education, and an appeal to recover ‘il fondo teologico della bellezza mondana.’ Maria 
Luisa Spaziani ('L'immaginario contemporaneo’ 143-46) is a lone voice in suggesting that 
the new technology is actually a liberating force, particularly for the female imaginary. 

Since both Hillman and Zecchi see a religious poverty as being at the genealogical 
root of the problem, it is interesting to find the converse warmly argued by some of the 
other speakers. Assia Djebar ('Affrontare il nuovo secolo’ 27-35) good-humouredly 
questions the very basis of the millennial occasion for the conference, which is premised 
on the Christian calendar (and in any case presumes that the Almighty uses decimal 
notation), and refreshingly extends her audience's imaginary by illustrating profound 
consonances between St Augustine of Hippo and Ibn Khaldoun, across the thousand years 
that separated them. And Jacques Dupuis (‘Cristianesimo e religione nel terzo millennio: 
identita e comunione’ 63-77) pleads for an opening up of Christianity to other religions, 
drawing on the thirteenth-century Ramon Llull's Book of the Gentile and the Three Sages 
and Nicholas of Cusa's De pace fidei (1454) to support Pope John Paul II's message that 
the Divine Spirit is present in a// humans, irrespective of creed, while recognizing and 
accepting difference. In ‘L'anima: una cosa assente’ (127-31), Olga Sedakova proposes 
Simone Weil as a model for humanity to recover its lost soul. The past is thus invoked by 
several speakers as being crucial to the health of the contemporary imaginary. Yves 
Bonnefoy ('L'immaginario metafisico’ 9-17) proclaims the role of poetry in pursuing a 
transcendental apprehension of being (an apple, for instance). Giovanni Raboni (‘Il doppio 
zero della poesia’ 101-4), perhaps not contradicting Vassalli as much as would appear at 
the literal level, presents utopia as the death of time, of freedom, and therefore of poetry, 
which keeps alive the dimensions of past, present and future. 

In ‘Le cose di fuori’ (47-52), armed with disturbing statistics, Viviane Forrester 
denounces the present ideologically closed world order in which ‘Dio € al servizio del 
guadagno’ and capital concentrations have achieved near-global control, making 
individual States impotent and multiplying the ills of humanity. Enrico Brizzi's ‘I lumi 
spenti: i giovani tra irrazionalismo e nuove mistiche’ (19-25) depicts the ideological 
devastation that this scenario has wrought among contemporary youth, and the 
disappointments of the ideals of 1968. Valentin Rasputin also declares the collapse of 
human hopes, and his ‘Perso per sempre?’ (105-11) pins the responsibility squarely on 
intellectuals themselves for a new ¢trahison des clercs: “Noi, uomini di cultura, dovremmo 


400 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


rispondere della distruzione della cultura e della moralita,’ he says, and bitterly remarks: 
‘Il male paga meglio e si comporta in modo pit stimolante e meno noioso.’ ‘In Germania,’ 
concurs Robert Schneider (‘Il romanticismo non vissuto’ 123-26), ‘imperversa la cultura 
del fraintendimento intenzionale.’ Tzvetan Todorov (‘Un nuovo moralismo’ 150-56), 
focussing especially on France, attributes the rise of the New Right to a widespread crisis 
of identity, but finds the political correctness of the contemporary Left at fault: ‘Essere 
moralista non significa affatto essere morale.’ He delivers a ‘precetto’ which might turn 
out to be circular: ‘[...] combattere non il male — ma coloro che pretendono di sapere 
sempre dove si trovano il bene e il male; non il diavolo ma — innanzitutto — i manichei.’ 

Antonio Skarmeta is still prepared to put faith in the power of reason to overcome 
dogmatism and fanaticism. ‘Dell'immaginario dell'umanita alla fine del millennio 
riconosco innanzitutto l'imperativo etico della missione dell'intellettuale,’ he affirms in ‘II 
millennio e il millesimo’ (133-42). He cites Calvino in support of a universalist humanism 
and the need for it to open out the cracks in the structure of economic globalism. At the 
interstice between intellectual struggle, social change and literary endeavour, Avraham 
Yehoshua (‘La famiglia come concetto politico e sociale nella letteratura’ 157-62) 
celebrates ‘La famiglia come metafora letteraria e microcosmo sociale’ as a major 
structuring and semantic element in the novel and deplores its reduction to a site for 
merely psychic drama. 

This poses a nice crux for writers, if the nature of the family is itself changing in 
western societies, and it brings us round to artistic creativity as a key site for the 
generation and regeneration of the collective imaginary, as of meanings and values. In this 
respect, Ben Okri's ‘Lotta mentale: il controincantesimo per il XXI secolo’ (113-22), for 
all its laudable sentiments, came to me as a disappointment, lacking in the promised 
enchantment. An intellectual argument in free verse, it reads (even allowing for the 
diaphragm of translation) as neither poetry nor prose nor prose-poetry, and leaves one 
hankering for the real art of Okri’s narratives and poems, which have enriched our 
imaginary. Ljudmila Petruchevskaja’s ‘Le possibilita del genere menippeo. Tre viaggl. 
Note sulla relazione al convegno “Fantasia e realta”’ (79-99), on the other hand, is a 
virtuoso performance in which the Menippean mode is commandeered to include the 
conference itself in a multifaceted travelogue which instances the literary imaginary and 
imagination at work in a twenty-first century Russian update of the presiding genius of the 
conference, Ariosto. 

Roberto Pazzi, the initiator of it all, closes the proceedings (173-75) with an 
affirmation of ‘Il bisogno, in un Paese a regime monopolistico del Sacro da parte della 
Chiesa Cattolica, di rivendicare una laica sacralita della Letteratura.’ But that is not where 
this volume ends. Fittingly for the literary imaginary, there follows an appendix “Omaggio 
a Jourge Luis [sic] Borges nel centenario della nascita,’ including ‘Visita alla biblioteca di 
Babele’ by Gianluigi Magoni (177-87) and ‘Esattamente innumerabile’ by Insel Marty 
(189-94). The former is an exact mathematical reconstruction of the imaginary library, 
complete with diagram, which demonstrates that it exceeds the dimensions of our universe 
by an unimaginably large factor. The latter inquires into the metaphysics of numbers and 
measurement (including Zeno's paradox), books and writing with which Borges makes 
play. (The palindrome for Tor’ Bled Nam is unfortunately spoiled by the misspelling 
Mondelbrot in footnote 2 on page 192.) Reality remains undecodable, as long as it is 
posited as being outside ourselves. 

John Gatt-Rutter, La Trobe University, Australia 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19(2001) 401 


Rebecca West. Gianni Celati: The Craft of Everyday Storytelling. Toronto: UP, 2000. 
With this book, Rebecca West has expanded her already significant essay-work on Gianni 
Celati to produce a first-rate piece of scholarship on the oeuvre of one of Italy’s major 
contemporary writers. West’s personal relationship with Celati has done much to enrich 
her work, allowing her access to unpublished and not readily available material while 
infusing her writing with an almost autobiographical flavor. This is particularly evident in 
the first section of her book entitled “Introduction: Meeting Gianni Celati.” Here West 
recounts several of her meetings with Celati and reveals how, from their first encounter in 
Rome during the spring of 1979, their relationship has developed into a close friendship. 
The remaining pages of the introduction provide a broad presentation of Celati’s work. 
According to West, Celati’s writings have been traversed by the debunking of 
metaphysical certainties and foundations characteristic of the postmodern turn in the 
Seventies. At the same time, however, they remain profoundly shaped by the need for 
some form of ethical and spiritual sustenance to guide us in a time of weakened 
epistemologies. It is West’s opinion that this need for sustenance is chiefly responsible for 
the “artisanal” or “workshop” qualities of Celati’s postmodernist practices, whereby 
writing remains an itinerary, an open-ended process, as opposed to being the disclosure of 
finalized and absolute knowledge, be it in the form of negative or positive theology. 
Precisely because the concept of an “artisanal,” craft-like postmodernism is of 
fundamental importance to West’s argument, she also organizes the remainder of her study 
in a manner that mirrors Celati’s writing. Hence, her discussion does not develop 
according to the chronological ordering of traditional monographs, but follows a non- 
linear path, or what she quite aptly names a “critical errancy” capable of better accounting 
for the zigzagging and palimpsest-like qualities of Celati’s overall production. 

In the first chapter, titled “Bartleby: Preferring Not To,” West explores the 
importance in Celati’s imaginary of the figure of Bartleby from Melville’s 1856 story, 
“Bartleby the Scrivener.” From her main exhibit, notably Celati’s translation of and 
introduction to this work, West argues that Bartleby represents an important emblem in 
Celati’s writing, resonating as it does in works such as Finzioni occidentali, Le avventure 
di Guizzardi, and Quattro novelle sulle apparenze. More fundamentally perhaps, in the 
figure of Bartleby, West locates one of the main concerns of Celati’s own poetics: an 
acceptance of being as inherently contingent and unknowable, to which corresponds a 
practice of writing as a permeable, receptive activity, far removed from the masterful 
appropriation and willful intentionality of more traditional models of representation. The 
chapter also accounts for the larger philosophical and ideological issues associated with 
such weaker epistemic configurations. It does so by drawing upon an impressive numbers 
of thinkers associated with post-metaphysical thought, including Derrida, Deleuze, and 
Guattari, as well as Agamben, Rovatti, and Vattimo. She also mentions authors such as 
Beckett and Kafka, whose work is informed by a relation with externality that is no longer 
based upon structures of domination. 

The second chapter, “The Antimonumental: Redefining Minimalism,” situates 
Celati’s writing from the eighties, especially his Narratori delle pianure, within the 
context of minimalist literature to which belong younger authors such as Tondelli, De 
Carlo, and Del Giudice. West argues, however, that minimalist tendencies are already 
present in Celati’s work from the seventies. However, her excursus into Comiche, Le 
avventure di Guizzardi, La banda dei sospiri, and Lunario del paradiso calls for a 
redefinition of minimalism to best account for Celati’s poetics. A cogent reading of a 


402 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


number of secondary sources, including pieces by Hayden White and Italo Calvino, allows 
West to recover minimalism from accusations of superficiality and shallowness. She 
argues that the minimalist procedure of paring down thematic and stylistic concerns is 
based on a polemical intent to displace the premises upon which traditional realist fiction 
and historical representation rest. Minimalism, in other words, comes to be defined as a 
complex and profound attempt to revise those representational strategies that strive to 
immobilize reality in monumental forms. For this reason, West finally proposes the 
concept of the “antimonumental” and of “corporeal sensuality” to define Celati’s 
minimalist production. An interesting description of the weaker epistemological 
instruments associated with minimalist techniques (including the privileging of 
contemplation as opposed to looking and of adventure as opposed to searching) that Celati 
was developing in a number of essays and interviews from the seventies to the mid- 
eighties, corroborates West’s positive redefinition. 

The third chapter, “The Permeable Gaze,” explores how Celati’s concern with a 
weaker apprehension of reality has led his work toward the exploration of the oral and 
visual qualities of being by fostering his interest in the media of photography and cinema. 
At this point, West describes two writings from the eighties where she situates the 
importance of the external and the visual in Celati’s poetics: “Verso la foce: Reportage per 
un amico fotografo” and “Finzioni a cui credere.” Her cogent reading establishes strong 
affinities between the late photographer Ghirri and Celati, particularly as regards their 
common interest in the dimension of space, as opposed to the dimension of temporality. 
Subsequent sections of this chapter are dedicated to the analyses of two other works by 
Celati: the collection of stories Narratori delle pianure and the video Strada provinciale 
delle anime. While West’s description of Narratori delle pianure highlights the techniques 
of spatial representation employed by Celati, notably a panoramic, mutable mode of 
narration as opposed to a static and scenic one, her analysis of the video emphasizes 
Celati’s move into a “feminine” symbolic order. This is an order, West argues, that is 
opposed to the hierarchical configurations of the father and therefore better suited to 
apprehend spiritual and imaginative realities. The chapter concludes with a meditation 
upon the ethical implications of Celati’s poetics of a “permeable gaze.” West argues that a 
subjectivity open to the world of externality implies a respect for separateness of being, 
and therefore should not be read as a mark of indifference and irresponsibility but rather as 
a sign of “conviviality.” 

Chapter four, “A Family of Voices: Celati’s ‘Parents,’ “Siblings,” and *Children’,” 
translates the notion of permeable subjectivity in the field of intertextuality by exploring 
Celati’s receptivity to the words of others. The model employed by West is very flexible 
and accounts for both direct as well as indirect influences on Celati and by Celati. Hence, 
West explores writers whom Celati has translated and written extensive commentaries 
about. These include Melville, Kafka, Beckett as well as Calvino and Tomaso Garzoni. In 
addition to these writers whom she names Celati’s “parents,” West also discusses his 
“siblings” and “children.” While the “siblings” are not writers to whom Celati has 
dedicated formal essays, they are nonetheless authors who share many of his poetic 
concerns. Among them, West dedicates some attention to Angela Carter, Patricia 
Highsmith, and John Berger. As for the “children,” West describes those writers, including 
Ermanno Cavazzoni and Daniele Benati, who have gathered around Celati and whose 
work has been included in his Narratori delle riserve. 

The fifth chapter of the volume, “Celati’s Body Language: Orality, Voice, and the 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 403 


Theatre of Ephemeral Mortality,” is a consideration of the role of body language in 
Celati’s production from the seventies onwards. It opens with an excursus into Celati’s 
theoretical writings on orality over the course of three decades and establishes the 
importance for him of reactivating the gestural and spoken aspects of language for written 
narration. Such reactivation explains his deep interest in the epic poems of the 
Renaissance, particularly in the work of Boiardo, rewritten in prose by Celati in 1994 as 
Boiardo innamorato raccontato in prosa, and read aloud publicly on many occasions. In 
addition to Renaissance epics, Celati’s attention to orality also motivates his interest in the 
work of authors such as Céline, whose thirties’ novels sought to translate, in novelistic 
form, the contingent and corporeal dimension of spoken voice. The last section of this 
chapter addresses Celati’s turn to performance, exemplified in the theatrical mode of his 
1996 Recita dell’attore Vecchiatto nel teatro di Rio Saliceto. \nsightful discussions of the 
larger cultural context surrounding Vecchiatto are also included and provide extremely 
useful analyses of the work as an oppositional response to the works of young writers of 
the nineties. Against a context that was witnessing the explosion of cyberpunk, splatter, 
and pulp fictions, Celati’s focus on an old man emerges as a reminder of the limits of our 
body and, ultimately, of our shared destiny in mortality. 

“Africa, Gamuna, and Other Travels: Moving Narratives,” the final chapter, addresses 
several of Celati’s writings, including Avventure di Guizzardi, Lunario del paradiso, and 
Avventure in Africa, under the category of travel stories. Drawing upon the work of Geerz, 
West locates in this extensive corpus the presence of an ethnographic project capable of 
disclosing the actual in all its contingency and ephemerality. The chapter then moves to a 
discussion of the ethnographic pieces written by Celati on the imaginary land of Gamuna 
and part of a long work in progress titled Fata Morgana: Notizie sul popolo dei Gamuna. 
In several pieces included in Fata Morgana, West argues that Celati maps a fictional 
world to destabilize Western customs, beliefs, and practices. His imaginary society of 
Gamuna is not only founded upon the acceptance of the ephemera of the natural world, but 
has rejected the will to power, glory, and self-gain that often structures contemporary life. 
The chapter concludes with a description of Avventure in Africa. This work, which 
consists of nine notebooks composed by Celati in the course of a journey to West Africa in 
1997, is analyzed against the context of other contemporary travel writings. Although 
Celati’s Avventure shares some of the qualities of the travelogue convention, West argues 
that it also differs from other contemporary examples. She substantiates her claim by 
comparing it with Moravia’s Un’ idea dell'India, Malerba’s Cina Cina, Pasolini’s L ‘odore 
dell’India, and Manganelli’s L'esperimento con I|'India. Reviving the older aesthetic 
concept of grace — a concept defined as the ability of writing to become immersed in the 
flow of happenings — West suggests that Celati’s originality rests in his ability to submit 
representation to a condition of errancy and adventure. This submission results in a work 
that no longer seeks to provide fixable meanings and cultural codifications for travel 
literature. 

The volume closes with a brief chapter titled “Provisional Conclusions: Venturing 
into the New Millennium.” After a brief summary of her analyses, West proposes to 
approach Celati’s oeuvre as a state of convalescence. In her view, convalescence ought to 
be interpreted as a period of recovery from the masterful assumptions of our modernity in 
order to approach existence with a newly found appreciation for what is likely to remain 
unexplainable and inexplicable, while at the same time undeniably appealing in all of its 
diversity. 


404 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


An informative, extremely well argued book, Gianni Celati is certainly the definitive 
work on this writer to date, and therefore is a very important addition to scholars interested 
in the craft of one of Italy’s most significant storytellers. 

Norma Bouchard, 7he University of Connecticut, Storrs 


Giose Rimanelli e Enrico Cestari, Discorso con l’altro. Salo, la guerra civile e I’Italia 
del dopoguerra. Milano: Mursia, 2000. Pp. 269. 

Merita molta attenzione Discorso con / ‘altro, libro tra testimonianza, cronaca e storia sugli 
anni della guerra tra tedeschi, militi della Repubblica Sociale Italiana e partigiani, in 
quanto si inserisce nel difficile problema interpretativo sul ruolo svolto dai militi della 
Repubblica Sociale Italiana dal 1942-45. 1 reduci della Rsi reclamano di non essere stati 
soltanto puri collaboratori dei tedeschi e rivendicano un’equiparazione morale tra i 
contendenti. Inoltre attraverso le vicende intorno alla pubblicazione di Jiro al piccione, 
primo romanzo di Rimanelli, si ripropone la ricorrente domanda sul ruolo avuto dai 
comunisti nella editoria italiana del dopoguerra. 

Inserito in questi dibattiti storici, il titolo assume un doppio significato in quanto oltre 
al discorso fra America/Italia, cioé fra lo scrittore Giose Rimanelli che vive in America e 11 
bancario ferrarese Enrico Cestari, sui reciproci ricordi da ex commilitoni dei battaglioni 
“M” della legione Tagliamento, allo stesso tempo allude ad un possibile e tanto cercato 
discorso con i partigiani, che diventano “I’altro”. Infatti i due ex militi della Repubblica 
Sociale Italiana si scrivono dopo cinquantanni dai luttuosi e sanguinosi scontri della guerra 
civile del 1943-45 non solo per rivivere il doloroso passato ma soprattutto per far valere le 
rispettive posizioni ed esperienze personali. Leggendo il fitto epistolario si scopre che 
mentre il ferrarese Cestari si era arruolato per fede e per riscattare |’onore italiano tradito 
con l’arresto del Duce, dalla fuga di Vittorio Emanuele III e larmistizio, il giovane 
molisano Rimanelli era finito tra gli ultimi seguaci di Mussolini solo per sfuggire al 
plotone di esecuzione, dopo essere scappato da un campo di concentramento tedesco a 
Villafranca. 

Dalla loro corrispondenza vengono alla luce le delusioni di un giovane, Cestari, 
cresciuto alla scuola fascista, il quale, dopo essersi arruolato volontariamente, si vede 
costretto ad addestrarsi per un confronto con gli alleati, “invasori”, che non avra mai 
luogo. A distanza di tanti anni Cestari scrive amaramente: “Per quanto riguarda la guerra 
vera € propria, 1 nostri superiori ci fecero credere che la caccia ai ribelli con costanti 
rastrellamenti avesse un duplice scopo: quello di disunire le bande armate dei partigiani. 
[...] un diretto contatto con il pericolo [...] sarebbe poi risultato di preziosa utilita per il 
nostro scopo futuro: l’impiego al fronte contro gli Alleati” (137-38). 

Cestari reclama dalla storia di riconoscere il ruolo di combattente in una guerra 
fratricida che lo ha portato da volontario repubblicano alla cocente delusione nel constatare 
che i comandamenti mussoliniani “CREDERE, COMBATTERE e OBBEDIRE” con cui 
era cresciuto non erano portatori di liberta e di rinascita. 

Dai ricordi di Rimanelli affiora, invece, l’angoscia di un giovane disadattato, 
cresciuto in un paesello meridionale e formatosi in un seminario di provincia, che si trova 
ad affrontare una guerra che lo vede impreparato e senza nessuna ideologia 0 tanto meno 
coscienza politica democratica. Completamente diversi anche gli avvicendamenti dello 
scrittore, Rimanelli, che vuole far conoscere ai giovani e ricordare ai suoi lettori di 7iro al 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 405 


piccione di essersi trovato nel conflitto senza fede littoria, ma come un fuggiasco in cerca 
della morte per espiare le proprie colpe di inadeguatezza sociale, religiosa, ambientale e 
culturale. Rimanelli aveva gia espresso la sua condizione esistenziale in una conferenza 
tenuta presso la sede di Bologna della Johns Hopkins University il 9 aprile del 1948: 
“Personally, I don’t have anything to do with fascism or antifascism in spite of the fact that 
I experienced fascism as well as antifascism due to historical and_ intellectual 
circumstances. I have never been a member of any Italian party or group. Neither have | 
participated, of my own will, in actions and manifestations for or against fascism.” In 
questa sua fuga suicidale, le peripezie dello scrittore molisano diventano un calvario 
durato prima nei campi di Coltano e poi nel dopoguerra italiano diviso dalla guerra fredda 
e conclusosi soltanto con la decisione di trasferirsi definitivamente negli Stati Uniti, 
emigrazione vissuta come unica, sola, vera decisione presa spontaneamente e liberamente. 

Dalle rievocazioni giovanili di Cestari riguardo alla propria formazione culturale si 
capisce benissimo come il fascismo cercava di essere tutt’uno con il patriottismo perché si 
poneva come unico e legittimo rappresentante della patria e delle tradizioni italiane. 
Poiché il testo, oltre alla testimonianza personale, si presenta anche come rievocazione 
storica, memoriale di una stagione anche vissuta come guerra patriottica contro il nemico 
occupante dai partigiani, mi pare opportuno fare delle constatazioni. L’angusta sofferenza 
della solitaria ignoranza culturale e politica di provincia di Rimanelli, da lui stesso spesso 
riconosciuta, e quel mondo giovanile, per il ferrarese Cestari, intensamente vissuto nella 
retorica totalizzante fascista, aiutano a capire le loro rivendicazioni, soprattutto per quelli 
che non hanno vissuto direttamente quella contrapposizione politica, pur non risolvendo il 
nodo strettamente storico-politico che Italo Calvino aveva descritto: “Quel peso di male 
che grava su tutti noi e che si sfoga in spari, in nemici uccisi, ¢ lo stesso che fa sparare 1 
fascisti, che li porta a uccidere con la stessa sofferanza di purificazione, di riscatto. Ma 
allora c’é la storia. C’é che noi nella storia, siamo dalla parte del riscatto, loro dall’altra.” 

Il volume sara utile e interessante per coloro che vorranno, attraverso i ricordi e 
confronti dei due epistolanti, assaporare quei duri e ancora scottanti anni della storia 
italiana. Discorso con /’altro da una voce ai tanti giovani morti che chiedono una ragione 
per la loro scomparsa. Per un completo raffronto con “gli altri” si suggerisce di leggere La 
fine di una stagione. Memoria 1943-45 di Roberto Vivarelli, sorprendente confessione di 
un altro ragazzo di Salo, Tra misteri e verita. Storia di una democrazia incompiuta di Ugo 
Pecchioli e La Resistenza. Come e perché di Sergio Cotta. 

Antonio Vitti, Wake Forest University 


Gastone Venturelli, Pensieri linguistici di Giovanni Pascoli con un glossario degli 
elementi barghigiani della sua poesia, Firenze: Accademia della Crusca, 2000, pp. 215. 
Torna a far riflettere lo scandaloso — cosi Contini nell’esplorare il versante italiano (// 
linguaggio di Pascoli, 1958), cosi Traina quello latino (Saggio sul latino del Pascoli, 
1961) — linguaggio pascoliano. E torna per l’impegno che trent’anni addietro Gastone 
Venturelli profuse nel redigere la tesi di laurea e per la sollecitudine con la quale oggi 
l’Accademia della Crusca vuole giustamente estenderla ad un pit! vasto pubblico. Come 
nota Teresa Poggi Salani nella Presentazione, “trent’anni [...] non sono pochi per uno 
studio di critica letteraria e storico-linguistica” (VII), ma concordiamo decisamente con lei 
nell’attribuire alla ricerca di Venturelli un interesse certo, per pregio di completezza alla 


406 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


prima parte, per assoluta novita alla seconda. 

Nel saggio che da il titolo al volume (1-48) Venturelli, che vede nell’“aspetto 
linguistico [...] la pit’ idonea chiave di lettura dell’opera pascoliana” (47), interroga gli 
scritti in cui il romagnolo, in modo discontinuo e asistematico, anche contraddittorio, 
affronta il tema della lingua. Con le due antologie italiane compilate per la scuola, Sul 
limitare (1900) e Fior da fiore (1901), ?ormai maturo Pascoli propone ai giovani lettori 
“una soluzione al problema della lingua” (8). Ed € chiaro ch’egli si rivolga ai giovani 
alunni come ai futuri scrittori e poeti, cosi come nella prolusione pisana del 1903, parlera 
di lingua agli studenti per il loro futuro “uffizio di maestri, ma anche per il probabile e 
augurabile ministero di scrittori” (La mia scuola di grammatica, cit. a p. 23); a dire che, 
pur con la toga professorale, € sempre il poeta ad esprimersi. La proposta linguistica 
pascoliana, cosi come la veicola l’introduzione a Fior da fiore, “é chiara: per fare della 
poesia [...] non serve un /inguaggio grigio e spersonalizzato, ma il suo contrario, magari 
ravvivato dalla freschezza di un dialetto, qualunque esso sia [...]; anche se in realta gli 
scritti che suggerisce come esempi sono [...] toscaneggianti” (9). A ribadire, nei fatti, 
questa apertura al dialetto, alla sua freschezza e verita, nonché alla sua immissione 
nell’italiano, sono i testi antologizzati. Quelli in lingua straniera 0 antica, Pascoli li traduce 
0, meglio, li rielabora, ravvivati da “espressioni popolari e da un lessico particolarmente 
vivace e€ inconsueto” (12). Quelli in italiano, in maggioranza del XIX secolo, pur 
rappresentando abbastanza bene il quadro letterario nazionale, dimostrano un marcato 
favore dell’antologista per il registro popolare toscano (I. Nieri, G. B. Giuliani, U. Poggi, 
G. Cepparelli); e a questi testi vernacolari Pascoli appone non solo noticine esplicative ma 
anche correzioni fonomorfologiche di determinati vocaboli, “come per un processo di 
italianizzazione” (15), di rinsanguamento della lingua italiana comune e non solo, ché, 
come visto, lobiettivo letterario € sempre sottinteso. Ma questo processo, aggiunge 
Venturelli, vale solo per le “parole toscane [...]; non altrettanto [per] quelle dei dialetti 
extra-toscani” (16-17), il cui unico esempio é il romanesco di Belli. 

Negli scritti in prosa di Pascoli Venturelli identifica due filoni tematici primari: 
“ricerca della massima precisione linguistica e senso del mistero nella lingua poetica” (18). 
Il primo, che innerva le due antologie, attraversa molti scritti pascoliani, come // Sabato 
(1896), 7 fanciullino (1897, poi integralmente 1903: da ora F), La mia scuola di 
grammatica (1903) e le Note alla seconda edizione dei Canti di Castelvecchio (1903). II 
poeta si schiera contro la lingua della tradizione poetica, contro |’indeterminatezza 
terminologica del petrarchismo; ogni cosa ha il proprio nome, che deve essere usato anche 
a costo di riuscire oscuri e di essere criticati: “cosi il poeta deve fare, e lasciar dire cosi, 
sperando, se non altro, che se ne avvantaggino i poeti futuri, i quali troveranno divulgati 
tanti nomi prima ignoti e percid chiamati oscuri. In verita non é€ egli |’Adamo che per 
primo mette i nomi?” (F, cit. a p. 19). L’attenzione alla realta delle cose, alle quali la 
lingua deve aderire e massimamente quella poetica, € raccomandata ne // Sabato, il 
discorso sulla poesia di Leopardi, in cui Pascoli deplora la genericita di alcune espressioni 
(il celeberrimo mazzolin di rose e di viole), “La poesia é nelle cose” (cit. a p. 23). Era cosi 
anticipato nel °96 il binomio res e verba, e il suo imprescindibile rispetto per i fini della 
poesia, reso esplicito nel 03 con La mia scuola di grammatica, nella quale Venturelli 
coglie il “punto fondamentale della posizione pascoliana™ (24): “Dunque studiate le res, e, 
s’intende, non trascurate le verba. [...] E cosi fuggirete il pericolo, in che spesso noi 
incorriamo, di scriver di nulla, quando non scriviamo di critica letteraria 0 storica, e di 
poetare sognando, mentre la realta canta intorno a noi” (cit. a p. 23 e 25). E Venturelli 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 407 


aggiunge a commento: “/a realta che canta intorno a noi: non é forse questo il cardine su 
cul si articola tutta la poetica del fanciullino?” (25), e fa seguire la citazione in cui, come 
nell’introduzione a Fior da fiore, il poeta é assimilato ad “Adamo che mette il nome a tutto 
cid che vede e sente” (F, cit. a p. 25). Aggiungeremo noi da Su/ /imitare (1900, X): “egli 
[il fanciullo] studia le cose, che [...], se si hanno a dire, intuisce sin da ora che, quando si 
sanno 0 si sentono le cose, le parole vengono da sé”. La nominatio rerum accordata al 
fanciullino — discendente di Adamo e di quel bambino che secondo la trattatistica 
cristiana, “lasciato a se stesso dopo la nascita, avrebbe automaticamente parlato ebraico” 
(Eco, La ricerca della lingua perfetta, 1993, 39), cioé la lingua madre dettata da Dio — é 
il simbolo di quella ricerca di assoluta univocita tra parola e cosa, secondo un vincolo 
naturale e non arbitrario vagheggiato da chi, come Pascoli, mira alla pregnanza aurorale 
della parola che al contempo rifugge Il’indeterminatezza e si apre al mistero. 

La pressione dal basso, secondo la definizione di Devoto, dai dialetti e dai vernacoli 
specialmente toscani, assolve in gran parte a questa ricerca e si manifesta, con maggior 
rilievo, dal primo soggiorno a Castelvecchio (1895), in cui Pascoli entra in appassionato 
contatto con il Barghigiano, che “assomiglia al rude fiorentino del dugento o trecento” (cit. 
a p. 30). Di questa lingua colorita e originale Pascoli arricchiva le lettere (infarcite, spesso 
a dismisura, di vernacolo), le antologie, e persino interventi di argomento latino (Lucus 
Vergili), ma soprattutto la poesia, tanto da comprometterne la comprensione e richiedere 
l’inserimento di un glossarietto nella seconda edizione dei Canti, da cui Venturelli cita: 
“Ci sono parolette che mal s’intendono [...] e chi in queste montagne non é stato, crede 
che siano parole morte, risuscitate per far rimanere male lui. Ma no, non per codesto io le 
rimetto in giro; bensi, ora per amor di verita, ora per istudio di brevita” (cit. a p. 34) e per 
“mostrar loro [i non toscani] che possono, molto spesso, usar bellamente e rettamente in 
italiano vocaboli del loro [...] linguaggio materno” (cit. a p. 36). In testa a queste esplicite 
giustificazioni Venturelli pone quella che invece Pascoli non esprime che per accenni nel 
F, vale a dire la tensione “verso un linguaggio misterioso, verso il vocabolo nuovo (che é 
poi sempre un vocabolo vecchissimo e non pil in uso 0 un vocabolo trascurato perché 
estraneo all’insipida lingua corrente)” (37-38). Il mistero “investe tutti gli aspetti della 
parola: da quello esteriore, fisico e fonologico (che sviluppato ed esagerato porta 
all’onomatopea), a quello pratico e funzionale 0 semantico (e |’estrema funzionalita porta 
al tecnicismo troppo arduo per i non iniziati), a quello storico-psicologico con intenzione 
evocativa (ed ecco il dialetto, la parlata italo-americana, i] latino)” (39). Pascoli elimina 
“lindeterminatezza leopardiana e il manierismo (linguistico) petrarchesco, ma ad essi 
subentra un’altra dimensione altrettanto distante dal reale e dal quotidiano cui il poeta dice 
di aspirare. La massima precisione possibile tende, nelle sue estreme conseguenze, 
all’incomprensibile e al mistero” (40). 

L’autore apre qui una breve parentesi sul fenomeno, indagato da Contini, 
dell’onomatopea semantizzata (Finch... finché e inversamente, anch'io.. . chio) e cita, a 
mostrare quanto fosse l’interesse del poeta per il misterioso linguaggio delle cose, “la 
lettera che il cane Guli scrive all’Attilia, domestica di casa Pascoli: charra tiglia io 
sobbravo dacquanto te e ti salto e abbraccio. Guli” (41). Ancor pit: pregnante in questo 
senso ci pare il chit de L’assiuolo, al contempo onomatopea (di antica tradizione: cfr. 
Sacchetti, Pulci, G.M. Cecchi), nome toscano dell’uccello stesso (cfr. // chit dei Nuovi 
poemetti), ché “il nome di Linneo non va” (F), e ingeniosissimo trapianto nel Parnaso 
italiano del lugubre refrain del Raven di Poe (tradotto in gioventul), quel never more di “a 
non-reasoning creature capable of speech” (Poe, The Philosophy of Composition), che 


408 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Pascoli sembra rendere, nel rispetto dell’ ornitologia, nel pit: meridionale. 

Lo studio di Venturelli sui Pensieri linguistici di Giovanni Pascoli conserva ancor 
oggi la sua validita, benché in alcuni punti sia da integrare con acquisizioni posteriori 
(quelle di Nava, ad esempio, per il riduttivo giudizio sull’eredita pratiana in Pascoli), e la 
propria utilita, anche se Del Beccaro, con L'elemento dialettale nel linguaggio poetico 
pascoliano (Belfagor, 1969), nato contemporaneamente al saggio di Venturelli, ne 
perlustrava gli stessi testi e condivideva le conclusioni. 

I trent’anni trascorsi conferiscono invece alla seconda parte, il Glossario degli 
elementi barghigiani, un carattere di assoluta eccezionalita: “!’unica concreta documentata 
dimostrazione dell’ampiezza dell’uso del dialettismo da parte del Pascoli” (Poggi Salani, 
Sulla dialettalita del Pascoli, in Studi di Grammatica Italiana, 1999, 95). Si tratta del 
risultato di una ricerca semasiologica condotta da Venturelli nel Barghigiano e pit 
propriamente nel bacino della Corsonna, sul vocabolario pascoliano di estrazione popolare 
barghigiana o garfagnina, presente in poesie, prose e lettere. Venturelli, sperimentato 
ricercatore di tradizioni popolari e, in quanto garfagnino, profondo conoscitore dei dialetti 
locali, raccoglie testimonianze su poco meno di duecento parole, comprese tra accallato e 
duro d’orecchi, interpellando numerosi informatori (tra cui Elita Pieroni, classe 1877, 
figlia del Topo citato ne // Ciocco, e Erminia Da Prato, nata nel 1882, sorta di Beatrice di 
Pian degli Ontani). Ogni scheda é suddivisa in due parti: nella prima appare il lemma con 
il suo significato (spesso enunciato dal poeta stesso) e le citazioni dei passi pascoliani in 
cui € utilizzato; nella seconda sono riportate le testimonianze scritte (opere dialettali e 
stampa locale) o orali (gli informatori, di cui sono riferiti con esattezza gli interventi, 
spesso godibilissimi: baccola, “Le macole si dice! En que’ fruttetti scurini che fanno per le 
selve e si mangiano; sono bone anche col vino e zucchero”, dell’inconfondibile Erminia). 
Il glossario fa da pendant al saggio introduttivo, in quanto riunisce il materiale necessario 
all’esatta comprensione dell’opera pascoliana e alla verifica dei principi teorici di aderenza 
al reale e di esattezza linguistica formulati dal poeta. Rilevante appare l’attenzione di 
Pascoli all’aspetto diatopico del dialetto (talune parole denunciano con precisione la zona 
in cul € ambientata una scena: accallato), diacronico (arcaismi dialettali in bocca a una 
vecchia: casalino), oppure l’ambivalenza culto-popolare di alcuni vocaboli (botro), la 
diffusa adozione nel linguaggio quotidiano della montagna di Barga di voci_ italo- 
americane (candi) e l’uso esclusivamente musicale di bi/usco, per esempio. Un glossario 
importante per mole d’informazione e per di pit irripetibile, giacché, come I’autore 
dichiarava, “fra venti anni [...] un’indagine come quella che ora abbiamo potuto condurre, 
non potra certamente essere altrettanto documentatrice. Per molte voci [...] @ questa 
ultima stagione” (55). 

Matteo Pedroni, Université de Lausanne 


Franco Zangrilli. // bestiario di Pirandello. Metauro Edizioni, 2001. Pp. 167. 

Uno studio sul bestiario di Pirandello mancava e ce lo offre, con dovizia di esempi e 
grande sensibilita interpretativa, Franco Zangrilli, che ha voluto suddividere il suo 
interessante lavoro in sei nutriti capitoletti incorniciati da una introduzione e una 
conclusione. Come ricorda immediatamente lo studioso, gli animali hanno popolato 
l’immaginario umano sin dalla notte dei tempi, da quando infatti essi venivano raffigurati, 
nelle caverne della preistoria, coinvolti in lotte dal misterioso significato simbolico-rituale. 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 409 


Piu tardi, con l’introduzione della scrittura, il mondo ferino si trasferisce, acquisendo 
ulteriori referenze analogiche, metaforiche, mitiche, nella letteratura, e gia in quella 
classica trova in Euripide, Omero, Aristofane, i suoi grandi narratori. Dalla tradizione dei 
bestiari medievali si evolve poi una simbolizzazione moderna, ricca di significazioni tratte 
dalla esegesi biblica ed evangelica, 0 arricchita dalla mitopoiesi popolare. Ancora oggi, 
ricorda Zangrilli, il genere del bestiario emerge e si colloca tra le opere pit: suggestive di 
scrittori come Buzzati, Cértazar, Apollinaire, Tozzi. 

Anche Pirandello si avvicina a questa tradizione letteraria e favolistica, dapprima con 
degli studi saggistici e piu tardi nell’immediatezza della sua produzione poetica. Per lo 
scrittore, annota Zangrilli, fu di fondamentale importanza il suo avvicinamento all’ Ariosto 
e all’epica rinascimentale, e la familiarita con i novellini medievali, da cui trasse 
importanti spunti e insegnamenti sia a livello tematico-simbolico che sul piano pit 
strettamente tecnico-narrativo. 

La frequentazione con la letteratura classica stimolo lo scrittore siciliano a sviluppare 
una propria filosofia animalesca, un percorso di osservazione dell’umanita nei diversi 
momenti della sua realta quotidiana e di riflessione sulla bestialita di certi suoi 
atteggiamenti, modi del pensiero, pregiudizi e, in generale, debolezze dell’umana stirpe. 
Tuttavia, osserva Zangrilli, mentre nella  favolistica convenzionale l’animale veniva 
rappresentato con una intenzione analogica di matrice comica, Pirandello lo introduce al 
fine di elevare allo zenith la vena del suo umorismo, mettendo a buon frutto quel 
denouement tragico che diviene condizione caratteristica del modo di essere di tanti suoi 
personaggi. 

Dalla breve ed efficace introduzione lo studioso passa ad affrontare la propria materia, 
suddivisa in unita funzionali ad una disamina a sfondo primariamente tematico. In 
“L’animale e il primitivo”, “L’animale e il lavoro”, “L’animale e il femminile”, 
“L’animale e la vendetta”, “L’animale e la morte”, “L’animale e il tempo”, vengono 
esaminati i luoghi di ricorrenza della topografia ferina sia dove essa appaia in pura forma 
analogica e denotativa sia dove divenga parte integrante, in forma connotativa, della 
filosofia pirandelliana, elevata ad exemp/um di una realta sociale e culturale che all’autore 
preme mettere in rilievo, giudicare e finanche umoreggiare. E il caso degli esempi riportati 
nel secondo capitolo, “L’animale e il primitivo”, dove Zangrilli affronta la questione della 
presa di posizione pirandelliana vis @ vis la realta siciliana, filtrata nell’analisi delle sue 
diverse classi sociali. La presenza del bestiario agreste € fortissima a tutti i livelli testuali 
in Liola, dove la raffigurazione analogica uomo-animale € interpretata come esasperata 
vicinanza e mescolanza dei due universi. Zangrilli rileva ’emergenza di tipologie animali 
in molti racconti delle Novelle per un anno, nei quali Pirandello sembra denunciare 
l’inferocimento e |’imbarbarimento della gens siciliana ponendone gli esponenti su uno 
scalino inferiore, quello dell’animale appunto. E chiaro l’intento autorale, riflette Zangrilli, 
che sottolinea la sensibilita pirandelliana nei confronti di un universo umano-animale 
desensibilizzato, disumanato, in cui la sorte € infelice per entrambi, vittime di un 
ingranaggio feroce ed inarrestabile. 

Oltre a significazioni prettamente socio-culturali e storiche la presenza animale é 
segnale, come nota bene lo studioso in Mal di luna, di forze ed energie cosmiche, 
ultramondane a cui l’uomo, appunto come un animale, deve sottomettersi, soggiacere. 

In “L’animale e il lavoro”, lo studioso punta lo sguardo sulla riuscita 
rappresentazione pirandelliana di una Sicilia sfruttata e caratterizzata da condizioni 
lavorative inumane, di cui sono vittima soprattutto le classi popolari. L’analogia 


410 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


dell’°uomo-animale é particolarmente riuscita in Cidula scopre la luna, nel cui personaggio 
subumano, l’uomo-bestia che scopre nella luna la distanza tra sé e il mondo e viene 
avviato ad una sia pur elementare gnosi, si esemplifica una situazione di arretratezza e 
dominazione. Zangrilli riconosce e mette in rilievo altre funzioni affidate all’animale dalla 
fantasia affabulatrice dello scrittore siciliano. In molti racconti esso infatti veicola la 
protesta dell’uomo nei riguardi delle limitazioni, responsabilita, degli obblighi e oneri 
imposti dalla societa e si fa portavoce di una comunita affrancata dalla restrittiva mentalita 
delle classi piu grette. 

Interessante e suggestivo é “L’animale e il femminile”, capitolo in cui vengono 
proposte analogie tra il mondo ferino e l’universo umano dei rapporti sentimentali ed 
affettivi. I motivi della fedelta e infedelta, della finitezza delle relazioni amorose, della 
enigmaticita dell’animo femminile vengono affrontati da Pirandello in modo obliquo, 
attraverso una serie di sottili parallelismi con il mondo animale, nel quale l’umanita vede 
rispecchiata e contempla l’assurdita, la “bestialita” di certi comportamenti. In questo 
studio approfondito non poteva infine mancare |’esame dedicato allo spazio del femminile, 
motivo sul quale Pirandello riflette in Si gira e Quaderni di Serafino Gubbio operatore. La 
donna-animale, la donna-tigre che Pirandello identifica nella Nestoroff é@ una 
esemplificazione dell’enigma che travaglia |;uomo, il suo inconscio insondabile che 
l’autore riesce a dominare e superare solo nella rappresentazione artistica. 

Ricchi di spunti e suggestioni sono anche 1 tre capitoli seguenti, nei quali Zangrilli 
affronta le tematiche della vendetta, della morte e del tempo. A questi motivi Pirandello 
accompagna un vasto bestiario, in cul si accumulano. stratificazioni semantiche, 
analogiche, mitopoietiche e filosofiche. E il caso del racconto Un po’ di vino, nel quale la 
mosca € annunciatrice e portatrice di morte ma anche simbolo del rimorso del 
protagonista, mentre in altri racconti lo stesso insetto indica seccature, intrighi, noie, 
malignita quotidiane. In questo capitolo lo studioso sottolinea l’intenzione autorale la 
quale, attraverso |’emergenza degli animali nel tessuto testuale, riesce a comunicare una 
idea filosofica, a farsi strumento di una intuizione metafisica non comunicabile in modo 
immediato. L’autore si serve allora, metonimicamente, di coadiuvanti che lo sostengano 
nella raffigurazione e codificazione dell’enigma. All’interessante capitolo sulla morte 
segue quello dedicato al tempo, nel quale l’animale simbolizza, soprattutto nei racconti e 
romanzi, il fluire temporale, la caducita delle cose e dell’uomo, la fugacita e |’instabilita 
del reale, oppure, come ne L'uccello impagliato, la fissita di una vita che si frange nella 
irreversibile e quotidiana gabbia delle convenzioni. Nota bene Zangrilli come il bestiario 
pirandelliano, che da questa sagace investigazione risulta vario e stratificato, si arricchisca 
Via via di animali mitici, archetipici, legati alla fiaba e all’ immaginario collettivo, e come a 
questi si giustappongano e si mescolino connotazioni e denotazioni novecentesche tanto 
composite da creare una suggestiva mitopoiesi, un corollario di nuovi e moderni archetipi. 

Nel capitolo finale Zangrilli conclude la sua ricerca con una carrellata di allegorie 
animali a cui sono assegnati via via dall’autore diversi significati, é il caso della tartaruga 
che, nel racconto omonimo, simboleggia il motivo del destino apparendo in rapporto 
analogico sia nella figura della moglie del protagonista, sia come deus ex machina, 
strumento del suo finale affrancamento. Lo studioso conferma la ricorrenza della 
confusione tra uomo e animale nell’ opera pirandelliana, e porta ad esempio, tra gli altri, il 
racconto // signore della nave, in cui del protagonista vengono enfatizzati i tratti bestiali, 
listintualita ossessiva del maiale, la sua mancanza di intelligenza. Alla individualizzazione 
ferina fa poi da contraltare la festa paesana della mattanza del maiali, durante la quale cid 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 411 


che era stato tratteggio del singolo diviene caratteristica dell’intera umanita presente. 

Mescolanze di sacro e profano affiorano poi in alcuni racconti, in cui all’animale 
Pirandello assegna, forte di una favolistica che ha sospeso l’incredulita, una funzione di 
critica della razionalita umana, come in La prova, dove a giudicare |’uomo sono due orsi. 
Interessantissima e conclusiva é la riflessione dello studioso sulla utilizzazione del 
bestiario nel discorso metanarrativo pirandelliano, in cui l’autore — un esempio magistrale 
rimane // pipistrello — si serve dell’animale per drammatizzare il continuo scontrarsi e 
intersecarsi di arte e vita, di finzione scenica e realta. 

Studio critico di fondamentale importanza questo di Zangrilli, ricerca stimolante nel 
sostrato immaginario pirandelliano, analisi approfondita anche dal punto di vista 
bibliografico, ricca di scoperte e di indicazioni che si prestano ad una rinnovata esegesi del 
sostrato segnico e semantico del grande scrittore siciliano. La topografia zoomorfa, di cui € 
intrisa |’intera produzione scrittoria pirandelliana, é evidenziata dallo studioso, sia nei 
racconti € romanzi che nel teatro, come continua e vivificante presenza che si snoda 
attraverso |’intera produzione del nostro autore ma la cui interpretazione non puo esaurirsi 
nello spazio di un unico studio. // bestiario di Pirandello, di Franco Zangrilli, € ottima 
opera incipitale, che invita lo studioso attento e sensibile ad una ulteriore analisi indicando 
nuove interpretazioni del tessuto retorico-formale oltre che un nuovo ed originale indirizzo 
ermeneutico. 

Simona Wright, The College of New Jersey 


Franco Zangrilli. Pirandello nell’America Latina. Fiesole: Cadmo, 2001. Pp.117. 

La fama di Luigi Pirandello, scrittore ma soprattutto drammaturgo, aveva raggiunto fin dai 
primi decenni del Novecento |’America Latina, influenzando, come ben ci ricorda Franco 
Zangrilli in uno dei suoi studi piu riusciti, innumerevoli grandi scrittori di quel continente. 
E tuttavia la critica, che da tempo ha cronologizzato i viaggi, i successi e le molteplici 
rappresentazioni della  produzione pirandelliana  oltreoceano, si ¢, forse 
inconsapevolmente, astenuta dall’analisi delle pur evidenti ricorrenze tematiche, formal, 
filosofiche del pirandellismo nelle opere dei pit’ conosciuti autori sudamericani. Una 
lacuna che lo studioso intende colmare con questo suo certosino lavoro di scavo e di 
investigazione, distribuendo e organizzando la materia in sette capitoli che includono una 
introduzione, una conclusione e cinque saggi di finissimo stampo comparativo. Mentre nel 
capitolo incipitale e finale lo studioso pone rispettivamente le basi della sua opera e 
propone ulteriori indicazioni e indirizzi di sviluppo, nei capitoli centrali egli si concentra 
su una ricerca analogica, comparatistica, tematica e stilistica che si rivela nel contempo 
approfondita e di grande respiro. Cinque sono gli autori, forse prediletti dallo studioso, che 
costituiscono le basi di questo studio critico e nella cui produzione poetica sono evidenti le 
tracce di un forte pirandellismo: lo spagnolo Felipe Alfau (1902-), Jorge Luis Borges 
(1899-1986), argentino di origine tedesco-polacca-italiana Roberto Arlt (1900-1942), 
Julio Cortazar (1914- ), e ’uruguayano Mario Benedetti (1920- ). 

Pur dedicando una ampia trattazione a questi autori, Zangrilli dedica anche, nella 
parte introduttiva, pagine importanti alla analisi di altri scrittori nei quali si rintracciano 
forti rimandi e influenze pirandelliane. E il caso del cileno Jenaro Prieto e del suo dramma 
El socio dove si sentono fortissimi gli addentellati con // fu Mattia Pascal, del quale si 
ricalcano la creazione di un personaggio fittizio, i motivi del romanzo da scrivere e del 


412 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


difficile rapporto tra l’autore e la propria opera, i propri personaggi. In particolare Zangrilli 
riconosce nel protagonista Julian e nel suo “travestimento” pascaliano quest’ultimo 
motivo; nel dramma infatti il personaggio fittizio prende vita divenendo la coscienza, 
Valter ego, del suo creatore, e portandolo, attraverso umoristici smascheramenti e colpi di 
scena, alla pazzia. La raggiunta classicita e canonicita del modello drammaturgico 
pirandelliano viene evidenziata da Zangrilli in un dramma dell’argentino Enzo Aloisi, 
Nada de Pirandello... ! por Favor! nel quale la scrittura dell’opera viene complicata 
dalle diverse aspettative ed esigenze delle parti in causa, quella del suo autore, ma anche 
dell’impresario, che ha richiesto appunto di allontanarsi dal modello in voga, del pubblico, 
e infine dei personaggi, che si presentano “vivi” al loro autore reclamando udienza. Sono 
questi solo alcuni dei significativi esempi proposti da Zangrilli nella sua introduzione, 
esempi della fama raggiunta e del grande rilievo dato al teatro e alla filosofia dell’autore 
siciliano. 

Nella parte centrale della investigazione ogni capitolo indaga in primo luogo la 
conoscenza e familiarita dell’autore in questione con la letteratura italiana e soprattutto la 
sua familiarita con la drammaturgia e la prosa pirandelliane. E cosi nel caso di Felipe 
Alfau, del quale Zangrilli annota la approfondita conoscenza dell’opera del drammaturgo, 
senza la quale gli sarebbe stato impossibile scrivere il suo dramma pit conosciuto, Locos. 
A Comedy of Gestures. In questo lavoro Zangrilli esamina le strutture retorico-formali, 
mettendo in rilievo la frammentarieta del testo, la organizzazione del narrato in capitoletti 
autonomi, nei quali si intrecciano rimandi inter- e intratestuali, e infine richiamando alla 
struttura tematica, oltremodo pirandelliana, che si ritrova nel motivo del finto suicidio, del 
morto insignificante, della perdita di controllo dell’autore sul suo personaggio. A questi 
motivi si intreccia una discorsivita piu strettamente filosofica, il rapporto tra arte e vita, lo 
smascheramento dell’assurdita delle convenzioni sociali e della vita stessa, la capacita di 
porsi al di fuori e di osservare il reale con altri occhi. 

Particolarmente riuscito é il capitolo dedicato a Jorge Luis Borges, del quale viene 
sottolineata la assidua frequentazione con la letteratura italiana. E qui lo studioso richiama 
alla necessita di vedere, pit che una influenza pirandelliana unidirezionale, una 
comunanza ed una reciprocita di rapporti e rimandi, ma anche una comunanza di saperi, di 
conoscenze e di interessi, soprattutto filosofici, poetici e linguistici. I motivi cari a 
entrambi gli autori e che Zangrilli mette dovutamente in evidenza sono quelli della 
biblioteca-labirinto, oltre ai topoi della ri-scrittura, della circolarita, dell’ intertestualita, 
della commistione tra reale e fittizio, e della distruzione del limite tra 1 due regni. La 
tematica dello sdoppiamento, della frantumazione dell’io, della incomunicabilita sono 
altrettanto frequenti sia in Borges che in Pirandello e rinviano, secondo Zangrilli, ad una 
inquietudine e ad una instabilita che illustrano efficacemente la crisi dell’arte e della 
poesia, ma anche dell’individuo, nel ventesimo secolo. Le somiglianze e le comunanze si 
estendono naturalmente anche ai personaggi borgesiani e pirandelliani, in cui € vivo il 
senso di estraneita, di isolamento e quindi la tendenza al mascheramento, alla creazione di 
una finzione che, pirandellianamente, mette in moto il sentimento del contrario. 

Il capitolo seguente € dedicato a Roberto Arlt, il cui dramma E/ juguete rabioso 
risente in modo evidente della frequentazione con la drammaturgia dell’autore siciliano, 
soprattutto per quanto riguarda la problematica della creazione artistica e del rapporto 
autore-personaggi. Zangrilli conferma, nell’analisi comparatistica, la presenza di un 
personaggio in crisi di identita, che gli deriva dall’eccessivo rovello interiore e dalla 
necessita di creare un’opera d’arte che sia una summa delle precedenti, che superi la 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 413 


tradizione, un’opera, tuttavia, “che non si lascia scrivere”. Da qui il rapporto di tensione 
drammatica che si instaura, come in tanti testi pirandelliani, tra creatore e materia, tra 
personaggi reali e fittizi, in un inarrestabile intrecciarsi e scomporsi di identita. Zangrilli 
sostiene il suo percorso analitico con un’ampia scelta di esempi e si rifa ad un nutrito e 
composito repertorio pirandelliano che &€ nel contempo matrice originaria, fonte 
dell’ispirazione e stimolo a nuove interpretazioni, a nuovi modelli poetici da trasfondere 
nella letteratura e nella cultura latino americane. 

Julio Cortazar e il pirandellismo costituiscono la radice tematico-analitica del V 
capitolo. Frequentatore ed amante dell’Italia e della sua cultura, Cortazar viene influenzato 
in modo particolare, secondo quanto afferma Zangrilli, dalla poetica pirandelliana, 
soprattutto per quanto riguarda la tecnica del romanzo breve e il teatro, nei quali dominano 
la sperimentazione e la ricerca di originali, rivoluzionarie forme drammatiche. Zangrilli fa 
notare come il pirandellismo sia gia presente nell’umorismo di alcuni titoli cortazariani, 
nonché negli spunti tematici e nei motivi ricorrenti, come la trattazione metanarrativa, e la 
presenza di un personaggio artista o intellettuale, alter ego e portavoce dell’autore. Nueva 
vista a Venecia, Diario para un cuento, Las babas del diablo sono le opere in cui pil 
evidente é l’influsso pirandelliano, soprattutto nella tecnica narrativa e nella invenzione del 
personaggio protagonista. La problematica della creazione artistica emerge in molti 
racconti cortazariani, come ricorrente é il motivo della scissione dell’io, dello 
sdoppiamento che raggiunge espressioni patologiche, ad esempio in Lejana, che Zangrilli 
interpreta come il segnale di una profonda crisi, di una scissura dell’io che anela al 
ricongiungimento, al ritrovamento della unita originaria. Come in Pirandello anche in 
Cortazar lo studioso riconosce una frequente casistica zoomorfa; I’universo animale viene 
proposto come metafora di una condizione di involuzione sociale, ed é un avvertimento, 
sempre presentato in chiave umoristica, della perdita dei valori vissuta da una certa classe 
sociale. 

Il sesto capitolo € dedicato all’influenza di Pirandello sullo scrittore uruguayano 
Mario Benedetti e alla sua maggiore opera teatrale, /da y vuelta, in cui ricorrono la tecnica 
della sperimentazione, del frammento, il tema del teatro nel teatro, in cui i personaggi 
assumono via via il ruolo di attori del dramma e di suoi spettatori. Anche in quest’ opera si 
verificano, come in Sei personaggi, delle interruzioni, delle modifiche impromptu sulla 
messa in scena, e si assiste alle lamentele dei “petulanti” personaggi che disquisiscono sui 
ruoli loro assegnati, richiedendo al loro autore di alterare il testo che sta componendo. II 
dramma é dominato quindi dalle fondamentali problematiche della poetica pirandelliana e, 
come discute e propone Zangrilli, da interessanti svolte drammatiche, che rendono il testo 
di Benedetti stimolante ed originale. 

Nella conclusione Zangrilli ricorda altri autori contemporanei il cui pirandellismo é 
Stato filtrato e mediato dall’opera degli scrittori latino americani pit vicini al siciliano, 
come nel caso di Giorgiana Petri e di Manuel Ramos Otero, 0 che ne hanno raccolto ed 
elaborato, in modo piti immediato, cioé attraverso la frequentazione diretta dell’opera e 
della poetica pirandelliana, tutte le moderne problematiche. E il caso di Carlos Onetti e 
della sua La vida breve, o del brasiliano Jorge Amado e del suo romanzo Dona Flor e i 
suoi due mariti. In queste opere, oltre alla tecnica della rappresentazione, di stampo 
pirandelliano, appaiono evidenti la preoccupazione dell’autore nei confronti del processo 
creativo (La vida breve - Sueno realizado), dell’alter ego autorale incontrato, e non 
riconosciuto a causa del passaggio temporale, della complicata sovrapposizione spazio- 
temporale ed infine dello sdoppiamento, dello scomporsi dell’identita individuale (Dona 


414 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Flor) in una miriade di frammenti e di realta inconoscibill. 

In conclusione, quest’opera di Franco Zangrilli si colloca tra gli studi pid: stimolanti 
dell’ultimo decennio sull’opera dello scrittore siciliano. Con la sensibilita di raffinato 
lettore che lo connota e la vasta e approfondita conoscenza della letteratura latino- 
americana, Franco Zangrilli propone ancora una volta, al pubblico della critica 
pirandelliana, materia di riflessione, di investigazione e di ricerca. 

Simona Wright, The College of New Jersey 


Howard Curle and Stephen Snyder. Vittorio De Sica: Contemporary Perspectives. 
University of Toronto Press, 2000. Pp. 285. 

Vittorio De Sica: Contemporary Perspectives contains a selection of interviews with De 
Sica, a collection of twenty-two essays, including one by Cesare Zavattini, and a 
filmography. Also furnished are sixteen quality prints, chronologically ranging from De 
Sica’s career as an actor in Men Are Such Rascals (1932) to his work as a director in The 
Garden of the Finzi-Continis (1970). Editors Howard Curle and Stephen Snyder explain 
the impetus behind the volume, “De Sica’s work, which once formed the cutting edge of 
theory-influenced cinema, has receded on the film-theory horizon, year by year, to a state 
of near invisibility” (3). In fact, there have been no books in English dedicated to De 
Sica’s work in the last few decades, leaving a critical void that this anthology attempts to 
fill. However, instead of a contemporary critical survey of De Sica’s work, this mistitled 
volume actually offers an anthology of the history of De Sica criticism from the 1950s to 
the present. Of the twenty-two essays, only five are actually new, while others are reprints. 
The essays are basically arranged in the order of the chronology of the De Sica films they 
discuss, rather than according to their date of original publication. 

In an attempt to provide name recognition or ostensible scholarly weight to their 
volume, the editors have included a number of reprints apparently not because of what 
they say, but because of who wrote them. While the editors admit that Gilles Deleuze 
“addresses specific De Sica films only peripherally” (81), they nevertheless make an 
unconvincing attempt to force Deleuze to talk about De Sica. They cull Deleuze’s scant 
references to the director from his books Cinema |: The Movement-Image and Cinema 2: 
The Time-Image, taking them out of context, to formulate the essay “Beyond the 
Movement-Image.” The resulting five pages appear disjointed and ineffectual, and 
ultimately provide more discussion of Bazin, Rossellini, and Visconti than De Sica. Andre 
Bazin’s “De Sica: Metteur-en-Scene” hardly constitutes a rare find in that the essay is 
anthologized in Film Theory and Criticism, a standard text in film departments throughout 
the county. However, the piece proves serviceable here as well, as a number of other 
essays in this volume refer to it. The editors claim that in his “Neorealist Aesthetics and 
the Fantastic,” Peter Bondanella “makes a strong case for the compatibility of allegory and 
neorealism” (172), but in the brief one-and-a-half pages devoted to Miracle in Milan 
Bondanella cannot fully develop his argument. Instead, he recounts the film’s violation of 
neorealist tenets and describes it as “a hymn to the role of illusion and fantasy in art [...] 
capable of transcending social problems but not resolving them” (177). This assessment 
hardly defends the film from the accusations of reactionary escapism that seems to concern 
the author at the beginning of his piece. As for Pauline Kael, her cloying 1961 New Yorker 
review of Shoeshine collapses into sentimentalism. She speaks of “crying blindly” and 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 415 


fails to provide any real insights into the film. Instead, she bemoans its lack of popularity 
and proclaims her emotional superiority to her fellow human beings, “for if people cannot 
feel Shoeshine, what can they feel?” (126). 

In contrast, Bert Cardullo’s “The Art of Shoeshine” successfully rescues the film 
from such an unthinking response. He counters earlier melodramatic readings of the film 
by providing historical context, and by discussing a society whose policies outstripped its 
limited resources. Cardullo compellingly argues that “The real tragic conflict is not 
between the two boys and society: it is to be found in a society divided against itself” 
(131). Frank P. Tomasulo also deconstructs previous, simpleminded readings of the De 
Sica filmography. His “Bicycle Thieves: A Re-reading” exposes the nostalgic patriarchal 
roots of the film’s sentimentality through its Oedipal configurations of Bruno in relation to 
Antonio, and Antonio in relation to the State. Tomasulo effectively explodes Bazin’s 
revolutionary claims for the film. He faults the film’s lack of class analysis, “its 
unquestioning patriarchal form and unreflective honouring of authority” (160), its 
presumed solidarity among the powerful, and its ultimate reification of the patriarchal 
family in the final handclasp of father and son. Faye McIntyre extends Tomasulo’s 
analysis of political ideology in De Sica’s parent-child relationships to a psychoanalysis of 
gender ideology as well. Her “In Love and War: Vittorio De Sica’s Two Women” 
fortuitously combines theoretical perspectives from Antonio Gramsci and Julia Kristeva to 
forge one of the best and most critically rigorous essays in the volume. McIntyre is one of 
the few to interrogate childhood innocence as a construct, revealing this “innocence” to be 
as much of a burden as it is an idealization. She notes how Cesira has internalized 
patriarchal ideology by fetishizing her daughter’s virginity. Instead, following Gramsci, 
McIntyre argues for “the necessity of being subject of, rather than subject to, a cultural 
discourse” (248). Whereas The Bicycle Thief merely uses and re-inscribes parent-child 
narcissism, McIntyre shows how De Sica critiques it in 7wo Women, revealing the film to 
be one of the director’s best in the process. 

The title of George Toles’s “On a Train to the Kingdom of Earth: Watching De 
Sica’s Children” might seem to promise an analysis of De Sica’s usual deployment of the 
construct of the child as a metaphor for innocence. De Sica’s exploitation of a moralizing 
pedophilia constitutes the most problematic aspect of his entire cinematic output, but Toles 
fails to engage the issue. He merely replicates the construct in a discussion of The Children 
are Watching Us. This weak essay only nominally redeems itself in a sensitive reading of 
the film’s final scene. With a bibliography based on Shelley, Hofmannsthal, Rilke, and 
Dostoyevsky, Toles seems as ill-equipped to write in a scholarly manner about cinema as 
Mark West in his “Holding Hands with a Bicycle Thief.” West’s rambling essay begins by 
discussing empathy and antipathy in relation to Antonio, but then segues into a seeming 
digression about the Gilda poster. The digression expands into a thesis, as West struggles 
to read the film meta-cinematically without having the critical or theoretical tools to do so. 

Written in 1953, Alexander Grinstein’s “Miracle in Milan: Some Psychoanalytic 
Notes on a Movie” provides an interesting proto-Lacanian analysis of how object desire 
displaces the desire for reunification with mother. Grinstein thus highlights De Sica’s 
implicitly critical connection between political utopianism and infantilism at the level of 
wish fulfillment. Hart Wenger’s “Pius Aeneas and Toto, il buono: The Founding Myth of 
the Divine City” provides an equally interesting reading of Miracle in Milan as both an 
analogy and an allegory of the Aeneid. He uses the founding myth of the Roman state and 
De Sica’s fairy tale of Toto’s founding of the “humanistic City of Good” as foils for one 


416 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


another to discuss contradictions at the core of Italian ideology. In contrast to the anti- 
neorealism of Miracle of Milan, neorealism appears as the “redemptive legacy” in 
Millicent Marcus’s “De Sica’s Garden of the Finzi-Continis: An Escapist Paradise Lost” 
(285). In her efforts to redeem De Sica to cinematic impegno, Marcus’s reading both 
compliments and complements this good, but ultimately overrated, Oscar-winning film. 
She reads the film through the overarching cultural metaphor of the garden, but her essay 
exploits the metaphor better than the film does. After De Sica’s commercial ventures of 
the 1960s, Marcus concludes that in The Garden of the Finzi-Continis “De Sica finally 
refuses the Eden of cinematic escapism by opening his film out to history” (276). Marcus 
supplies this historical context in a way the film does not, expanding its significance, and 
deftly drawing parallels between De Sica’s evolution of consciousness and that of Micol. 
In their essays, Vernon Young, Gilberto Perez, and Marsha Kinder all address neorealist 
cinematic aesthetics in Umberto D. Young’s discussion seems vaguely semiotic, while 
Perez’s appears vaguely phenomenological. Kinder’s analysis of De Sica’s use of the 
cinematic apparatus proves less vague, as she draws rudimentary similarities and 
distinctions between his use of suture and that of Hollywood. Other essays stumble onto or 
on the issue of De Sica’s use of suture and empathy, but the topic remains a relatively 
unexplored area of conscious scholarly research. As De Sica’s cinema exhibits the sort of 
simultaneous ideological and emotional engagement often deemed mutually exclusive, 
Kinder’s comments raise the issue of suture more than settle it. 

Originally published in 1964, James Price’s “The Case of De Sica” supplies a 
pedestrian auteurist assessment of the director, finding him conservatively “entrenched in 
the Catholic and humanist position” of loss, death, redemption and rebirth (221). More 
interestingly, Philip V. Cannistaro’s “Ideological Continuity and Cultural Coherence” 
extends auteurist analysis to include De Sica’s work as film actor. Discovering 
consistencies throughout De Sica’s career, Cannistaro argues against the conventional and 
artificial bracketing off of the filmography from the overt impegno of The Children Are 
Watching Us (1943) to Umberto D. (1952). Marcia Landy’s “Remembrance of Things 
Present” addresses De Sica’s relatively neglected career during fascism, with attention to 
Maddalena zero in condotta and Teresa Venerdi. Unlike Cannistaro, she feels the need to 
rescue the director from identification with the values of this period. Her quick comments 
on The Children Are Watching Us return De Sica to his canonized brackets. The editors 
themselves contribute essays that also address critically neglected portions of the De Sica 
filmography. Howard Curle’s “A Home in the Ditch of Saint Agnes” discusses The Roof 
(1956), the final Zavattini collaboration and a film the director considered to be one of his 
best (37). Curle persuasively finds the film unique among De Sica’s neorealist work in that 
the protagonists succeed in “their determination not to be victims” (214), without 
collapsing into the simplistic “triumphalism” that characterizes Hollywood cinema (218). 
Stephen Snyder’s “Hiding in the Light: De Sica’s Work in the 1960s” ambitiously 
attempts to discuss the filmography of that decade in terms of the problematic between 
role-play, (in)visiblity and identity. With a nod to Lacan, Snyder discerns a “wavering 
between a modernist and postmodernist sense of self” in these films (226). Snyder’s potent 
reading of After the Fox, however, dilutes somewhat when he extends his discourse to the 
Sophia Loren films of the period. Completing the rounds of De Sica’s neglected 
filmography, Colin Westerbeck’s essay “The Magic Mountain” seems to be included 
because an essay was needed on the film 4 Brief Vacation. Westerbeck provides a cursory 
and uninspired discussion of the film. 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 417 


Vittorio De Sica: Contemporary Perspectives offers an uneven collection of essays 
for an uneven film career. Rather than providing analysis, some essayists succumb to De 
Sica’s sentimentalism or are seduced by his facile idealism. However, given the absence of 
other critical works on De Sica in recent decades, this book, like the filmography it 
discusses, proves worthwhile. 

William Van Watson, University of Arizona 


Rebecca West ed. Pagina Pellicola Pratica: studi sul cinema italiano. Ravenna: Longo 
Editore, 2000. Pp 230. 

Pagina Pellicola Pratica: studi sul cinema italiano is an anthology of essays born out of 
the collective effort of Ph.D. students in Italian Studies from the University of Chicago, 
their Professors Gian Piero Brunetta and Rebecca West, and film-director Vanna Paoli. 
While Brunetta, as a “Fulbright Visiting Scholar” at the university conducted the initial 
portion of a seminar on the relationship of cinema and literature, Rebecca West further 
explored the topic with the collaboration of film-director Vanna Paoli, who spent a few 
months in Chicago presenting and discussing her films. As Brunetta states in the 
introductory note to the volume, the students’ term papers were of such high quality to 
deserve publication. In its present form, the volume includes nine revised versions of 
students’ papers to which are added two essays by Brunetta and Paoli’s director diary for 
La casa rossa. Collectively considered, the volume offers a broad overview of Italian 
cinema from the silent era to the present age. Films are read from a variety of critical 
perspectives, including those provided by the framework of inter-semiotic analyses, 
cultural studies, and formalism. 

The first two essays of the collection are penned by Gian Piero Brunetta. In 
“L’identita del cinema italiano” Brunetta explores the specificity of Italian cinema. He 
argues that this specificity can be located in a dependency upon the matrices, modes, and 
forms of the Italian literary culture and in its artisan-like qualities of production. Such 
qualities of production are, for Brunetta, most important as they preserve artisan work 
from disappearance under the forces of industrialization. In this sense, they provide an 
important alternative to Hollywood and Hollywood-inspired models of production. In 
subsequent sections of his essay, Brunetta tests the dependency of Italian cinema upon the 
literary culture by analyzing a number of well-known films, including the classics of the 
silent and the neo-realist eras. The essay concludes by addressing the cinema of the post- 
68 years. Here Brunetta detects the wane of a shared, local system of cultural references to 
which corresponds the emergence of new forms of identity, based not so much on the 
national cultural tradition, but on the more global languages of cartoons, television, video- 
clips, and rock music. The second essay by Brunetta, titled “L’onda lunga di Pirandello sul 
cinema moderno” focuses on a variety of works by Pirandello in order to describe the 
process of hybridization that has occurred between cinema and theatre. Hence, not only 
does Brunetta argue that Pirandello corpus has been a crucial archive of narrative 
situations and philosophical issues for both national and international film-makers and 
theorists, but he also describes the way cinema finally came to reorient Pirandello’s work. 
Focussing on some statements made by Pirandello in the mid-Twenties, Brunetta suggests 
that cinema increasingly became, for him, an important instrument for the fabrication of 
new myths capable of modifying the categories of the visible. 


418 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


The third essay of the collection, Davide Papotti’s “Amate sponde: I’immagine 
lacuale in due adattamenti di Malombra di Antonio Fogazzaro,” confirms Brunetta’s 
description of the strong ties between cinematic and literary culture and focuses on the 
cinematic adaptations of Fogazzaro’s 1881 novel Ma/lombra by Carmine Gallone (1917) 
and Mario Soldati (1942). Although this essay is mostly concerned with the directors’ 
adaptation of the geography of the lake, it also contains interesting discussion on the films’ 
revisiting of other works of the literary archive, including Manzoni’s Promessi sposi. 
Overall this essay is insightful, but includes excessively long descriptions that may cause 
the reader’s attention to wander. The earlier Ma/ombra is again the focus of the fourth 
essay, titled “Body as Text: Lydia Borelli in Afalombra.” and penned by Antonia 
Campisciano. Drawing upon the work of anthropologist Victor Turner, Campisciano 
makes a convincing argument that Borelli’s magisterial performance as an actress of silent 
film results from an expressionistic acting that combines the entire sensory repertoire. 
Hence, unlike Eleonora Duse, whose acting was always marked by physical restraining, 
Borelli’s body becomes the text of the silent film, the cinematic narrative that the viewer Is 
invited to read. In this sense, then, Borelli’s acting answers the well-known question posed 
by Virginia Woolf's “The Movies and Reality” about a language that would express 
thoughts without the use of words. 

The fifth and sixth essays of this anthology are dedicated to the receptivity of Italian 
cinema to the arts of painting and music. Sarah Hill, in her “The Art of History: Picturing 
the Risorgimento in Blasetti’s /860,” provides a cogent exploration of the influence of the 
nineteenth-century Macchiaioli painters on Blasetti’s 1934 film /860. Hill also discusses 
how the Macchiaioli were glorified by the Fascist regime as emblems of the pre-history of 
Fascism, despite the fact that most of them had in fact been advocates for the 
democratization of the peninsula and for radical leftist reforms. Blasetti’s appropriation 
seems to Hill to be closer to the vision of the Macchiaioli. Like them, he also tends to 
favor collective action over the heroism of the individual, and linguistic and cultural 
diversity over uniformity. The other essay to address the permeability of cinema to the 
other arts is by Daniela Pastina. Titled “Opera and Neorealism: The Function of L’Elisir 
d'Amore in Visconti’s Bellissima,” this essay analyzes the role played by Donizetti’s work 
in Visconti’s critique of Hollywood film history. Pastina argues that the arias serve to 
endow Bellissima with a strong national and regional character, thereby offering an 
additional interpretative key to expose the fascination with Hollywood productions that 
affects the character of Maddalena. Visconti is also the focus of the following essay, 
Catherine Ramsey-Portolano’s “Ossessione and Visconti’s Alternative Cinema.” Drawing 
upon Laura Mulvey’s conceptualization of alternative cinema as both politically and 
aesthetically radical, Portolano argues that Ossessione offers a critique of the Fascist ideals 
of Italian culture and society. Such critique is revealed in the choice of setting and 
characters as well as through the camera work. While the setting is that of the 
impoverished and unfamiliar landscape of the Po Valley, as opposed to the idealized and 
picturesque Italy of Fascism, male and female characters embody the subversive elements 
of Fascist society. While Gino is a vagabond, Spagnolo is a homosexual, and therefore a 
figure diametrically opposed to the virile male promoted by Fascism. Equally disruptive 
are female characters, such as Giovanna or Anita, who do not fulfil the duties of mother 
and wife encouraged by the Fascist cultural policy. The essay concludes with a discussion, 
regrettably rather brief, of the aesthetic innovations of Visconti’s camera work, 
particularly as they relate to the fragmentation and objectification of the male body. 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 419 


Like other essays in this collection, Jennifer Haraguchi’s “Ladri di biciclette: 
Zavattini’s Recasting of Bartolini’s novel” and Margaret Kern’s “Gianni Amelio’s Porte 
aperte: Opening the Doors to a Critical Re-valuation of Film Adaptation,” are concerned 
with the relationship between cinema and literature. However, both essay address 
cinematic adaptation from a critical angle that differs from earlier essays of this anthology. 
Haraguchi’s recalls that, although De Sica and Zavattini granted a screen credit to Luigi 
Barolini, they eventually came to disavow any connections between their film and the 
novel. In her comparative reading of both film and novel, Haraguchi does locate elements 
and themes that are common to both works. However, she ultimately argues that in Ladri 
di biciclette the transferal of literature to the screen paves the way for the increasing 
autonomy of cinema from its literary models. In a diametrically opposed view, Kern’s 
intervention suggests that cinematic adaptations can successfully preserve the literariness 
of style and tone of the verbal model. Focussing on Amelio’s adaptation of Sciascia’s 1987 
novel Porte aperte, she argues for the presence of the closest ties between author and 
director. Such faithful mirroring is, for Kern, indicative of the director’s attempt to read his 
film in light of the original text and its author. As such, it expresses Amelio’s homage to 
Sciascia. 

Fabio Ferrari's “Americana” and Lynn Lara Westwater’s “La casa_ rosa: 
Multilingualism, Power, and Politics in Mitteleuropa,” offer interesting readings of films 
from a culturalist perspective. Ferrari addresses the topic of Americanization of Italian 
culture by focusing on the American and Americanized woman found in the following five 
films: Rossellini’s Paisa, Visconti’s Bellissima, Fellini’s La Dolce vita, Leone’s Cera una 
volta il West, Antonioni’s Zabriskie 's Point, and Nichetti’s Ladri di saponette. Through a 
cogent and engaging interpretation of these directors’ films, Ferrari traces the origin and 
development of the process of Americanization that has affected Italian society from the 
Liberation of Italy to the conclusion of the Cold War. The essay concludes by asking if a 
new wave of cinematic responses to Americanization will be capable of articulating the 
path for a future decolonization of the Italian screen. Westwater’s contribution explores 
questions of language and power in Vanna Paoli’s La casa rosa. Her analyzes addresses 
key moments of the history of Central Europe, including the upheavals of German 
imperialism, communism, ethnic tensions, and the current process of Americanization. 
According to Westwater, Paoli’s treatment of these moments of history remains 
incomplete and even contradictory. Confirming some of the conclusions made by Ferrari 
in “Americana,” Westwater argues that the polemic against the Americanization of Central 
Europe is undermined by the use of English language. This use further establishes the 
primacy of English in securing for the film the audience of the global free market. 

The last segment of the anthology includes the diary of film director Vanna Paoli. 
Titled “Diario di una regista: La casa rosa,” it retraces the itinerary that brought Paoli 
from the original idea for the film in 1991 to its completion in 1995. The diary offers a 
fascinating insight into the changing world of Central Europe, where concepts of national, 
cultural, and political identity are undergoing a process of rapid modification. In addition, 
the diary also reflects upon the transformation of Italian society under the forces of 
Americanization. 

Overall, Pagina Pellicola Pratica: studi sul cinema italiano, is a good volume and 
can be easily integrated in courses on Italian cinema and culture. As with most projects of 
this kind, the quality of the essays varies, but | feel that a number of them certainly deserve 
critical attention. Finally, one must praise the efforts of both Rebecca West and Gian Piero 


420 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Brunetta for having integrated their teaching and research of Italian cinema in such a 
successful and exemplary manner. 
Norma Bouchard, 7he University of Connecticut, Storrs 


Minima theatralia. A cura di Yuri Brunello e Roberto Trovato. Genova: De Ferrari 
Editore, 2000. Pp. 160 

Il volume, a cura di Roberto Trovato e di Yuri Brunello, riprende l’idea alla base di Teatro 
in Liguria alle soglie del 2000 (Erga Edizioni, 1997), miscellanea in cui, per la prima 
volta, Trovato aveva tentato il felice esperimento di riunire studi propri e di giovani 
ricercatori. Per scelta editoriale che appare del tutto condivisibile, in Minima Theatralia gli 
scritti dei vari autori sono organizzati in due sezioni distinte, nelle quali contributi critici si 
alternano a testi atti ad essere rappresentati. 

Come spiega Yuri Brunello nell’introduzione, i saggi della prima parte del libro sono 
nati grazie ad un seminario di drammaturgia diretto da Etta Cascini, tenutosi all’ Universita 
di Genova tra gennaio e giugno 1998. L’autrice, che svolge attivita di critico e 
drammaturgo, ha analizzato le problematiche inerenti alla scrittura di testi teatrali fornendo 
solide basi teoriche e stimolando la pratica compositiva. Non volendo tralasciare un 
modulo formativo specificatamente indirizzato alla critica, ha inoltre offerto in lettura al 
gruppo di giovani partecipanti alle lezioni le proprie piéces, sollecitando un articolato 
giudizio valutativo e creando, in questo modo, una sorta di laboratorio. 

Prolungando nella dimensione scritta la dialettica seminariale, alcuni studenti, oltre a 
dare vita a La band degli intronati (il testo linguisticamente fresco ed agile, seppur non 
molto ricco di spunti, che conclude la prima parte del volume), si sono cosi cimentati 
nell’analisi delle opere dell’ insegnante, focalizzando I’attenzione su aspetti diversi. Chiara 
Casaretto ha esaminato due “pretesti’” drammaturgici. || titolo del suo breve contributo 
accenna in qualche misura alle conclusioni: “Se si deve muovere una critica ad Etta 
Cascini, occorre rilevare nei suoi lavori un’attenzione eccessiva verso il quotidiano, che li 
mantiene entro i confini dello stato umile” (28-29). Marco Roveta, nelle pagine del suo 
attento articolo su Cari Aborigeni, pone invece in evidenza alcune peculiarita di quella che 
€ stata riconosciuta come una delle pili riuscite opere della drammaturga veneto-genovese. 
Yuri Brunello, infine, considera l’intera produzione sotto |’insegna della definizione di 
“commedia dialettica”: tenta di riassorbire le scelte stilistiche e poetiche dell’autrice, 
rilevandone la preferenza per una dimensione del testo orientata a favore di chi guarda, sia 
esso lettore o spettatore. Le piéces, infatti, trovano “motivazione profonda proprio nel 
contributo del pubblico, sera dopo sera, offerto” (32), e “presentano intrecci costruiti con 
coerenza e linearita, personaggi muniti di una psicologia credibile, anche se la volonta di 
produrre un ritratto psicologico non € predominante, e dialoghi composti con un 
linguaggio mai eversivo, ma colloquiale, [...] oscillante tra il tono medio e quello basso” 
(32). 

Roberto Trovato, da parte sua, prima esegue una panoramica delle opere della 
scrittrice e traduttrice per il teatro (13-19); quindi, nel saggio Un teatro ispirato ai 
momenti del quotidiano, rinviene un’appropriata collocazione agli spunti altrove suggeriti 
da Chiara Casaretto, da Marco Roveta, da Yuri Brunello, amalgamando le intuizioni dei 
giovani ma gia maturi saggisti in un’unica dimensione di lettura. Definire il teatro di Etta 
Cascini — spiega Trovato — determinare a quale categoria appartengano le sue piéces, dar 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 421 


loro un contrassegno o un’etichetta sono compiti che si esauriscono ripercorrendo la storia 
personale dell’autrice, cioé cercando le radici della sua ispirazione proprio nel vissuto 
quotidiano, nell’apparente banalita della vita ordinaria femminile. Chiara Casaretto aveva 
trattato questa fedelta al reale come un difetto, un limite della studiosa; per Trovato, 
invece, tale tratto diventa specchio fedele di un modo d’essere, indice di spontaneita, una 
caratteristica distintiva di “questa autrice, che con un sorriso ironico ama definirsi ‘della 
strada’” (20). Secondo il docente universitario non é possibile chiudere il bilancio sulla 
produzione di Etta Cascini, né si pud ammettere l’escamotage delle conclusioni 
provvisorie: il critico non puod esimersi dal registrare un fenomeno di scrittura teatrale 
certamente degno e significativo, rimandando tuttavia la valutazione finale al momento in 
cul la scrittrice avra mantenuto le sue promesse. 

La seconda parte di Minima theatralia riunisce, come si legge nell’introduzione a cura 
di Roberto Trovato, “alcuni significativi e recenti apporti saggistici, frutti di ricerche non 
avare di risultati scientifici” (51). 

La sezione si apre con il saggio di Mauro Canova volto a tracciare il profilo di Carlo 
Marcello Rietman, giornalista, musicista, scrittore e autore — per la verita non molto 
studiato — di piéces teatrali (Profilo di Carlo Marcello Rietman, drammaturgo genovese 
55-68). Canova discute la linea poetica dell’artista, ne suddivide la produzione in tre 
periodi o epoche “che coincidono con il progressivo affinamento dell’arte del 
drammaturgo” (55) e assegna ogni singola piéce ad un filone distinto. Si sofferma, pol, 
sull’analisi delle tematiche contenutistiche, puntando I’attenzione sull’elemento ricorrente 
del gioco: donatore di fortuna, in grado di concedere in maniera imprevedibile e generosa 
ma anche di togliere e rovinare, ¢ la chiave metaforica di rappresentazione della vita “con 
le sue sorprese, le ingiustizie, le incongruenze” (57). Le figure femminili di Rietman, 
“sempre sottomesse e prone alle decisioni degli uomini” (59), crescono progressivamente 
in ruolo e spessore, ma restano legate, nonostante |’approfondimento psicologico, ad una 
dimensione rappresentativa francamente ottocentesca e datata. Su di esse grava un 
complesso di colpa derivante da una concezione dell’amore inteso quale atto vergognoso a 
cul fa riscontro la sterilita, destituzione inconsapevole eppur dolosa del proprio ruolo 
storico. I vari personaggi delle piéces, in cui Canova scopre suggestion provenienti dal 
teatro greco e intuizioni musicali, risentono dell’ambiente che li circonda e sono chiamati a 
dar prova “della propria capacita di sopportazione dinanzi alle vicissitudini ed agli eterni 
casi della vita” (65). 

I due saggi di Stefano Termanini toccano argomenti molto diversi, legati, pero, da una 
comune essenza teatrale. Nel primo contributo dedicato ad Harald Mueller, drammaturgo 
tedesco contemporaneo, lo studioso illustra la carriera e la produzione di un autore poco 
conosciuto in Italia. La parte centrale e pili ampia dello scritto consiste in una critica di 
TotenfloB, ovvero La zattera dei morti, opera rappresentata senza successo a Genova nel 
marzo 1997. Confrontando nel suo commento testo e spettacolo, Termanini € riuscito a 
spiegare gli equilibri interni al dramma, indagando la psicologia dei personaggi e 
interpretando il messaggio affidato a ciascuno di essi. 

Il secondo elaborato si sofferma invece sull’opera, pochissimo studiata, di Nicola 
Villani, meglio noto con lo pseudonimo Accademico Aldeano. L’autore, nato a Pistoia nel 
1590, prese parte alla disputa sull’ddone di Giovanbattista Marino in una posizione di 
critico moderato, tra difensori e detrattori. Ne // Ragionamento dell'Accademico Aldeano 
sopra la poesia giocosa dei Greci, de’ Latini e de’ Toscani, \etto nell’ Accademia degli 
Umoristi, il letterato analizza comparativamente la storia delle rime comiche procedendo 


422 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


per raffronti, con la chiara, pregevole intenzione di mettere in evidenza un’unica linea 
evolutiva, uno sviluppo graduale ma costante. Dopo aver trovato l’origine prima della 
poesia, vale a dire il momento in cui si ¢ cominciato a scrivere in versi, Villani analizza i 
generiteatrali, considerandoli forme di  espressione  poetica: si sofferma 
sull’interpretazione di un famoso passo aristotelico riguardante la nascita della tragedia, 
entra nel merito del confronto fra antichi e moderni e sottolinea come “la commedia 
nascerebbe per parto spontaneo dalla natura di alcuni poeti inclini a cogliere nei poemi 
preesistenti |’aspetto del ridicolo” (88). Termanini fa notare che |’ultima parte del trattato é 
la piu originale, grazie alla sapiente esegesi dei dati della tradizione alla luce del panorama 
letterario cinquecentesco e alla capacita del pistoiese “di ridurre la progressione storica a 
una trama d’esempi’, applicando ad essi “una sensibilita antropologica che vivifica 
l’elencazione erudita” (98). Cosi “l’associazione di fatti letterari e socioculturali” permette 
al Villani di ottenere “risultati tutt’altro che banali” (98). Per l’autore infatti “erano [...] le 
condizioni esterne alla letteratura a determinarne il corso: particolarmente la situazione 
politica e sociale” (99). 

Cesare Viazzi, in Cronaca di un'agonia. Voci liguri del radioteatro: 1968 - 1970 (113- 
15), ha stilato in una breve, preziosa nota una recensione del teatro dialettale nell’ ultimo 
biennio degli anni Sessanta, a completamento di un catalogo da lui gia redatto e pubblicato 
nel 1968 per i tipi della Erga (40 anni di teatro radiofonico genovese: 1928 — 1967): 
nell’opera compaiono i titoli degli atti unici trasmessi sino al 1971. Da allora, puntualizza 
Viazzi, “nei palinsesti sono state ancora inserite commedie dialettali, ma saltuariamente e 
con caratteristiche che non corrispondono piu a quelle dell’ originale radiofonico” (113). 

Una nota critica di Roberto Trovato, Verso l'aria di casa (116-119), precede la 
pubblicazione integrale dell’atto unico di Plinio Guidoni, Ritorno a Péntema (versione 
originale in genovese, a cura di Roberto Trovato: traduzione italiana di Aldo Rossi). II 
testo di Guidoni € una piéce compatta, di una decina di pagine, in cui si affronta il 
problema esistenziale del ritorno alle origini. Andrea, il Dria del copione in dialetto, dopo 
una vita trascorsa in citta, dove ha fatto carriera ed € diventato un ricco imprenditore edile, 
ritorna a Pentema, suo paese natale. La causa della subitanea decisione, come scrive 
Trovato nella lucida analisi, é “una sorta di enigma che verra risolto solamente nel finale” 
(116). Il mistero, tuttavia, non dura a lungo in quanto ben presto si intuiscono le 
motivazioni profonde e radicate alla base di una scelta solo apparentemente anacronistica: 
una nostalgica malinconia per il passato e la coraggiosa volonta di mettere in dubbio le 
certezze di una vita. In un contesto fortemente emozionale e allusivamente simbolico, la 
quotidianita del paesino ligure si mostra allora certamente dura e deludente, ma anche 
preziosa rivelatrice dell’essenza: solo qui le cose possono riacquistare il significato 
originario disperso nella confusione cittadina, riappropriarsi della perduta verita celata 
dall’effimera frenesia urbana. 

Osserva Trovato che Ritorno a Pentem, “radiodramma rigoroso ed essenziale” (116), 
privo di “concessioni e facili patetismi” (117), si colloca a meta tra due stagioni della 
produzione teatrale di Plinio Guidoni: recuperando la prima maniera, prepara |’approdo 
simbolista degli anni Ottanta, gli “esiti pil: persuasivi” (119) di Zovena co-o paras6, O 
blocco, A camoa, A Vixita, | Caroggé, Briscola e Maitinn-a. 

Maria Crovetto, Universita di Genova 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 423 


Flaminio Di Biagi. Sotto l’Arco di Tito: Le farfalle di Gozzano. Trento: La Finestra, 
1999; 

The author’s declared aims are twofold and interlinked: first, to establish Gozzano as a 
major writer who exerted a decisive influence on twentieth-century Italian poetry; and 
second, to do so by revaluing his prose writings and, above all, his unfinished poetic work, 
Le farfalle. These aims are premised on the perception that Gozzano’s literary profile has 
been pinned to the single poetic volume, / col/oqui (taking that to subsume also the earlier 
La via del rifugio). He pursues this intriguing undertaking by examining those two 
volumes of poetry as a starting-point to define Gozzano’s at once existential and literary 
predicament as a man irresistibly addicted to poetry, yet all too aware of its 
insubstantiality, and even of its falsity, as represented in the poetic showman par 
excellence of the age, Gabriele d’Annunzio; and all too aware, also, of its low esteem (the 
now well-worn loss of ‘aura’) amid the ever more rampant economism of the new century, 
which regarded poetry as having no practical value or social prestige. This first chapter, 
“Prima del diluvio (l’ideologia poetica ‘della rinuncia’ di Guido Gozzano),” is the best 
managed in the book, despite (or perhaps because of) re-treading already well-trodden 
ground. From among the welter of poets, traditional or iconoclastic, of the first decade of 
the twentieth century, Di Biagi skillfully identifies Gozzano’s distinctive tone, though in 
terms which are not particularly surprising or unfamiliar: the poet’s sense of himself as a 
living object, of poetry as a hoax or a game which he continually parodies as if afraid of 
being caught out taking anything seriously — either himself. or poetry, or the reveries 
which constitute both. ‘Real’ life and ‘real’ discourse, on the other hand, cannot be taken 
seriously either. Quaint convention rules all behaviours and all discourses, roles are always 
being played, consciously or unconsciously, and Gozzano’s poetry is always at the edge of 
affectionate parody and self-parody. Yet at the same time it expresses the awareness that 
its own consistent refusal of total seriousness is also a withdrawal, a retreat, a failure of 
nerve, an inability to engage the risks of living, whether in love or in social issues or 
fundamental beliefs, reflecting quizzically upon itself, and ultimately renouncing itself, so 
that Gozzano turns to prose. 

Di Biagi engages in the critical topos of debating whether the poet of / colloqui is to 
be regarded as the last of the classics or the first of the moderns. Such a nominalistic 
conundrum is of course insoluble, or a false dichotomy, but can still be heuristically 
useful. It also fits in with the philological project of Di Biagi’s book, which shows itself 
strenuously au fait with the canonical literary debates on Gozzano and environs. 
Philological rigour comes into its own, of course, in mapping out the very inadequate state 
of textual scholarship regarding much of Gozzano’s work, particularly that part of it which 
is Di Biagi’s main subject in this book. His second chapter thus discusses Gozzano’s more 
or less imaginary letters of his actual trip to India (mainly, in fact, Ceylon, or Sri Lanka, as 
it is now called), which draw much from Pierre Loti’s well-known work and are now 
known under the collective title Verso la cuna del mondo. Gozzano’s status as plagiarist 
and impostor, most notorious with regard to Le farfalle, now comes into prominence, but 
here Di Biagi turns it to positive account by highlighting Gozzano’s own perception that 
the India (or Ceylon) that he saw was depressingly like a plagiarism of the books written 
about it. Nevertheless, for all the factual information and literary erudition which Di Biagi 
deploys here (and the scholarly richness is in itself uplifting), this is where the main 
weakness of this study becomes visible. Despite much fine commentary and analysis, 
neither from the letters from India nor from the stories and fairy-tales does Di Biagi fetch 


424 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


any priceless literary pearls, any powerful evidence to support his thesis of the importance 
of these works to Gozzano’s status as a writer. 

This weakness becomes more serious with regard to Le farfalle itself, on which Di 
Biagi’s case most firmly rests. The last two chapters respectively trace the presence of the 
butterfly motif in Gozzano’s preceding life and work and in his ambient culture — early 
twentieth-century Turin, which was particularly hospitable to that icon — and present an 
analysis of the poems themselves. In the former (Ch. 3), we get a fascinating essay on the 
etymology of the word farfalla and its equivalent in some other languages, on entomology, 
and on the connotations surrounding butterflies in different cultures, including the 
prominence of the butterfly in the turn-of-the-century decorative style known in English as 
art nouveau and in Italian as stile Liberty or stile floreale, and of which Turin was one of 
the capitals. The trouble is, that while much of this (the butterfly as psyche, rather 
intimately connected to eros) is illuminating, much is dispersive, and little if at all related 
to what Gozzano wrote about his favourite insects. 

The author might have done better to make this third chapter shorter and put more 
into his final chapter. This has many fine points of detail, as exquisitely found and 
displayed as any in the book, but again, the coup de grace, the really decisive argument is 
missing, and the butterflies are taken too much for what they seem to be, trifling and 
insignificant. The irony of the book’s title is thus not fully realized. It refers to a passage 
from Carducci’s “Roma,” in the Odi barbare, where the poeta-vate addresses a rhetorical 
question to the eternal city: “Non curioso a te de le cose piccole io vengo: / chi le farfalle 
cerca sotto l’arco di Tito?’ There is a discursive twist here, for one must argue on behalf of 
Gozzano that butterflies are, yet are not, cose piccole, and Di Biagi appears to have been 
trapped in the terms of his own debate, as well as of preceding debates. 

Perhaps this happens as a result of his major defence of Gozzano against charges of 
massive plagiarism and derivativeness. Di Biagi conducts this defence with great finesse 
as well as scholarship, ultimately in terms of the essentially intertextual as well as 
factitious (fittizia) nature of literary art. Literary appropriation is also and always literary 
transformation. But something is missing — again, a discursive twist, a Derridean 
différance, the sense, apparently familiar to Gozzano, that the moment anything is said, it 
falls prey to irony, it is no longer identical with itself. And though the critic does some 
careful matching of source and Gozzanian counterpart, detailing the textual interplay, he 
does not convey the radically different direction which Gozzano’s text takes vis-a-vis 
Mascheroni’s or Maeterlinck’s or other sources. Thus, what gives Le farfalle the 
importance of a major work does not really emerge. | take this importance to lie in the 
coupling of an extraordinary stylistic intensity (despite the air of sprezzatura or tongue-in- 
cheek virtuosity) with a corresponding intensity in Gozzano’s sense of life and death as 
incarnated in the butterflies (again despite the initial self-deprecating irony and the 
Arcadian pastiche). 

Di Biagi continually comes tantalizingly close to presenting this. He sees in the 
butterflies both Gozzano’s image of poetry — its exquisitely fragile and apparently 
frivolous beauty — and of his own mortality (the chapter is in fact entitled “Autobiografia 
e testamento”’). He also points to allegories of social issues in the butterflies. But this is not 
enough. The butterflies seem to remain ultimately unimportant, really frivolous. The 
scientific stance appears just a game. Nature is taken to be just a myth and a refuge. But 
this is to miss the quite visible seriousness in Le farfalle. Butterflies live and die. Their 
ecstasies and cataclysms, their delights and terrors, parallel ours, for the living world is all 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 425 


of a piece, and in today’s world of looming ecological disaster, we can see all too clearly 
what Gozzano glimpsed in “La cavolaia.” Butterflies and humans are equally part of the 
overwhelming, amazing epic of being, constantly and powerfully evoked in Le farfalle. If 
the work is incomplete, that is only because it can never be complete. Aesthetic closure 
can only be a game, or else it is a fraud. Science in Le farfalle becomes cosmic drama, and 
our place in it is not very different from that of Leopardi’s wandering Asian shepherd. If 
this is philosophizing in poetry, it deserves comparison with the greatest such endeavours 
in Italian poetry, which once upon a time — Gozzano’s time — Benedetto Croce 
lamentably ruled out of order. For just one example of Gozzano’s poetic force, the reader 
may look at the portrait of ‘mother’ Nature in lines 45-62 of “La cavolaia,” “Madre cieca e 
veggente, avara e prodiga, / grande, meschina, tenera e crudele, / per non perder pieta si fa 
spietata.” 

Le farfalle certainly has something to say to today’s reader. It may not have changed 
the direction of twentieth-century Italian poetry (though we might want to have another 
look at La bufera), but it may well raise Gozzano’s standing as a writer of our modern era. 

John Gatt-Rutter, La Trobe University (Melbourne) 


Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa. Cento anni dalla nascita, quaranta dal Gattopardo. 
Atti del convegno di Palermo, 12-14 dicembre 1996, a cura di Francesco Orlando. 
Palermo: Citta di Palermo-Assessorato alla cultura, 1999. Pp. 260. 

Appare decisamente attivo, tanto sul piano delle acquisizioni testuali quanto su quello 
critico, il bilancio delle iniziative che hanno accompagnato il primo centenario della 
nascita di Tomasi di Lampedusa. Sul piano testuale va almeno segnalato il volume, curato 
dal figlio adottivo Gioacchino Lanza Tomasi, delle Opere nei “Meridiani” della 
Mondadori, che sempre pil vanno conquistando nel panorama dell ’editoria italiana il ruolo 
e il prestigio delle “Pléiades” francesi o dei “Deutscher Klassiker” tedeschi. Vi é raccolta 
tutta l’opera letteraria e critica, includendo molti capitoli inediti delle lezioni sulla 
letteratura francese, e redazioni rifiutate di alcune parti del Gattopardo. E proprio mentre 
scriviamo si annuncia una nuova edizione di questo “Meridiano”™, con l’ignoto capitolo del 
Gattopardo venuto alla luce posteriormente, nel 1998, nonché una probabile edizione 
nazionale delle opere, epistolario incluso (cfr. G. Lanza Tomasi sul quotidiano La 
Repubblica del 1° febbraio 2001). 

Sul piano critico, tra le cose migliori e piu' significative, vanno segnalati gli Atti del 
convegno palermitano del dicembre 1996 (un altro si tenne nella stessa citta nel maggio, e 
un altro ancora ebbe luogo a New York nel 1998: del primo gli atti sono gia disponibili, 
del secondo sono previsti per la fine del 2001). Caratteristica pit’ evidente della importante 
silloge che qui segnaliamo é senza dubbio la molteplicita dei punti di vista dai quali 
opera e la figura dello scrittore siciliano sono state affrontate: basti dire che italianisti 
accademici stanno accanto a critici militanti, studiosi di letterature straniere accanto a 
scrittori, testimonianze di chi alla fine degli anni Cinquanta visse in prima persona il 
“caso” Lampedusa accanto alle indagini di studiosi che non erano nati quando fu 
pubblicato il Gattopardo. Né peraltro mancano contributi di carattere biografico o anche 
storico (ossia sull’impatto niente affatto trascurabile che il Gattopardo ebbe sul dibattito 
storiografico del dopoguerra, in particolare a ridosso delle celebrazioni per il primo 
centenario dell’unita d’Italia). E per dar conto di tale benefica varieta, riteniamo opportuno 


426 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


riprodurre l’indice, gia ben eloquente di per sé: Francesco Orlando, “Presentazione”; 
Edoardo Sanguineti, “Testimonianza di un vecchio lettore”; Walter Pedulla, “Due risposte 
agli anni cinquanta: Lampedusa e D’Arrigo”; Alfonso Berardinelli, “// Gattopardo da 
allora ad oggi”; Massimo Onofri, “Sicilia, sicilianismo e sicilitudine nel Gattopardo”; 
Francesco Renda, “Lampedusa e la storia”; Caterina Cardona, “Alessandra Tomasi, ovvero 
la psiche come missione”; Andrea Vitello, “L’esordio clandestino di Lampedusa (1922- 
1924)°; Manuela Bertone, “Breve incursione nell’officina tomasiana”; Agostino 
Lombardo, “Lo Shakespeare di Lampedusa”; Alberto Castoldi, “Il paradiso dei 
sentimenti”; Andrea Camilleri, “Quando Garibaldi sbarco”; Natale Tedesco, “Identita e 
diversita: la doppia dimora del Principe (e del Cavaliere)”; Nunzio La Fauci, “Le tre porte 
del Gattopardo™, Salvatore Silvano Nigro, “Sotto la pelle del Gattopardo”; Nunzio Zago, 
“Modernita del Gattopardo”, Romano Luperini, “Il ‘gran signore’ e il dominio della 
temporalita”: Giulio Ferroni, “Angelica e le sirene”: Giovanni Raboni, “Un romanzo del 
Novecento”; Daniela Fidanza, “Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa e Virginia Woolf”. 

Entrare nel merito di ciascuno dei 19 saggi che compongono 1! volume, anche solo 
per offrirne una breve caratterizzazione é, come ben si comprende, impossibile nel breve 
giro di una recensione, sebbene sarebbe tutt’altro che privo di interesse non solo per alcuni 
dei pit’ impegnati contributi critici, ma anche per quelli scopertamente d’occasione e di 
rievocazione. Non ci si puo tuttavia esimere dal cercare di indicare i punti fermi 
dell’attuale dibattito critico, del quale questi Atti danno largo e significativo documento. 
Come gia i titoli mostrano chiaramente, Lampedusa non é pit’ Pauctor unius libri degli 
anni Sessanta e Settanta: se la centralita del Gattopardo & fuori discussione, ora si 
considera con pari attenzione non solo la produzione “minore™ (che tuttavia tale non é 
affatto), ma anche la sua peculiarissima attivita critica, la quale peraltro porta un decisivo 
contributo alla comprensione del narratore. Appare inoltre del tutto superato 11 cliché 
dell’attardato ma felice e facile ripetitore di moduli della narrativa ottocentesca: la 
dimensione europea e pienamente novecentesca di Lampedusa é infatti non solo 
riconosciuta, ma indagata e specificata nelle sue molteplici sfaccettature. Se poi tutti sono 
pit. o meno d’accordo nel riconoscere gli equivoci e le chiusure che tra fine anni Cinquanta 
e primi Sessanta furono all’origine del caso Lampedusa, e quindi anche della persistente 
“sfortuna™ critica del Gattopardo, tuttavia in qualche modo proprio le dimensioni del caso 
furono tali che esso € ancora oggi, per molti degli intervenuti, materia di riflessione, e 
punto di partenza per avvicinare 1 testi lampedusiani. 

Dunque, gli studi qui riuniti costituiranno a lungo un importante tour d'‘horizon su 
questo classico del nostro Novecento. Peccato pero che uno strumento importante di 
lavoro, destinato soprattutto a studiosi, sia privo dell’ indispensabile indice dei nomi. 

Emanuele Cutinelli-Réndina, Universita di Losanna 


Antonio Saccone. “La trincea avanzata” e “la citta dei conquistatori”. Futurismo e 
modernita. Napoli: Liguori, 2000. Pp. 172. 

La citazione che funge da titolo alla raccolta di saggi di Antonio Saccone proviene da 
“Analogie” (1927) di Massimo Bontempelli, intervento poi affluito nel volume 
L'avventura novecentista (1938). In questo saggio, l’intellettuale disegna una strategia di 
recupero e superamento dell’eredita futurista in vista della grande sfida della modernita. II 
polo della “trincea avanzata’, dalla figuralita aspramente militaresca, deve essere superato, 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 427 


secondo Bontempelli, dal piglio colonizzatore condensato nell’immagine della “citta dei 
conquistatori”, autentico simulacro di una esperienza della distruzione convertita 
proficuamente in un insediamento regolato da una produttiva economia coloniale, un 
presidio la cui presenza in terra di conquista prefigura ben altre, pil’ importanti vittorie. 
Queste due immagini dalla grande potenzialita simbolica diventano le macrometafore che 
governano il racconto della modernita di Antonio Saccone che, nei saggi raccolti in questo 
volume, schiude un percorso entro i confini dell’avventura della sperimentazione estrema e 
iconoclasta caratterizzante, in vari momenti del Novecento, il discorso letterario italiano. 

Degli otto saggi che costituiscono il volume solo due (“Le metamorfosi del genere 
manifesto” e “Marinetti e la distruzione dell’io”) sono inediti, mentre gli altri costituiscono 
rielaborazioni di testi altrove gia pubblicati. L’occasione é quella di offrire al pubblico 
degli studiosi dell’avanguardia la reperibilita in volume di studi di un autore i cui 
precedenti sondaggi critici sono diventati dei punti di riferimento per la messa a fuoco di 
personalita importanti del primo Novecento letterario come Massimo Bontempelli, Aldo 
Palazzeschi e Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. Su queste personalita alcuni saggi ritornano, a 
testimoniare |’inesausto dialogo del critico con le loro opere ed anche la capacita di 
rielaborare le precedenti acquisizioni esegetiche per la definizione di ritratti illuminati da 
un diverso taglio prospettico. 

I saggi raccolti sono disposti cronologicamente e costituiscono approfondimenti, in 
alcuni momenti particolarmente acuti, di tappe fondamentali e figure imprescindibili del 
fenomeno della avanguardia letteraria novecentesca. Si parte, quindi, da una analisi della 
dimensione mitografica del primo manifesto futurista per approdare alla presenza del 
futurismo, come interlocutore figurale ed estetico-programmatico, nell’esperienza neo- 
avanguardista dei Novissimi e poi del Gruppo °63. Se la parabola temporale sembra essere 
troppo ampia, il fuoco prospettico viene a concentrarsi sulle fasi e sulle sedi teoriche della 
elaborazione della avanguardia come fenomeno letterario autocosciente, e nella 
fondamentale e caratterizzante riflessione di questa elaborazione sui codici e generi 
letterari coinvolti nell’agone estetico allestito con tanta consapevole protervia contro le 
forme della Tradizione. 

Il primo saggio, “Il mito della regenerazione nel primo manifesto futurista”, 
costituisce una originale analisi della prima mitografia futurista. L’interpretazione si 
avvale della strumentazione analitica della antropologia culturale di A. van Gennep, al 
quale si deve un illuminante studio sui riti di passaggio, e di K. Kerényi, da cui Saccone 
mutua le penetranti riflessioni sulle matrici ideologico-discorsive degli archetipi 
mitologici. Attraverso la tessitura di tale rete analitica, il primo manifesto futurista viene 
letto come un campo di tensione ideologico in cui gli archetipi della rigenerazione 
vengono utilizzati per la mise en scéne di quel rito di passaggio fondamentale per il mito di 
fondazione del futurismo. Inoltre, tracce di “iniziazione palingenetica” (13) vengono fatte 
emergere negli scritti marinettiani precedenti alla fase propriamente futurista. 

Ne “Le metamorfosi del genere manifesto” si procede a una ricognizione 
macrostrutturale, notando “il diverso rilievo quantitativo assegnato di volta in volta nei 
vari proclami alla sezione affabulatrice e a quella normativo-programmatica” (21). Difatti, 
il momento affabulatorio e propriamente narrativo che costituisce il contributo innovativo 
del Futurismo al genere, dalle prime prove si riduce progressivamente fino — una volta 
giunti alla fase paroliberista — ad essere sostituito dalla “visualizzazione grafica” (33) 
della tavola parolibera, pil) immediata e futuristicamente simultanea della narrazione. 
L’indagine sulle implicazioni ideologico-estetiche del movimento futurista si chiude con il 


428 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


terzo saggio, “Marinetti e la distruzione dell’io”, denso di riflessioni attorno ai tre 
manifesti tecnici della letteratura futurista. L’autore prende spunto dalla “prospettiva anti- 
soggettivistica” (35) esibita nell’undicesimo comma del programma conclusivo del primo 
manifesto tecnico (“distruggere nella letteratura |’‘io’, cioeé tutta la psicologia™’). Lo 
studioso ritiene questa posizione il punto di vista privilegiato per condurre una analisi 
approfondita delle implicature estetico-programmatiche dell’intero “endecalogo”, di cui 
Pultimo comma costituisce “il logico approdo delle dieci enunciazioni” ma anche “il 
centro teorico” (36) da cui esse si irradiano. Ad esempio, la distruzione della sintassi, 
l’imperativo marinettiano a liberare il pensiero “dalla prigione del periodo latino”, trova la 
sua immediata pre-condizione nella trasfigurazione mimetica e alogica dell’io nel mondo 
dei realia. L’allestimento di una “stilistica della materia” che Fausto Curi identifico come 
propria della scrittura futurista della prima generazione diviene possibile, secondo 
Saccone, proprio attraverso la fase fondamentale della creazione di una nuova gnoseologia 
che ha al suo centro una soggettivita libera dal ricatto psicologista di ascendenza 
romantica. La nuova soggettivita futurista, piuttosto che negarsi alla materia, si 
abbandonera ad essa, ne acquisira le potenzialita proteiche e trasformative. L’uomo 
meccanico ed alato, il marinettiano Mafarka, costituira insieme l’archetipo e l’estrema 
concretizzazione della fantasia prometeica futurista. L’analisi delle diverse tappe della 
progressione figurale della nuova soggettivita futurista é arricchita dall’incursione nella 
cultura coeva ai proclami programmatici futuristi, emergendo con dei raffronti con il 
romanzo pirandelliano Quaderni di Serafino Gubbio operatore (1925, ma con il titolo Si 
gira..., 1916), che di li a pochi anni fornira una toccante ma non meno polemica 
meditazione sul pericolo di meccanicita e alienazione implicito alle innovazioni 
tecnologiche. Un solo appunto alla trilogia futurista che apre il volume. Alcuni degli spunti 
interpretativi e delle analisi avrebbero trovato ulteriore conferma teorica, e un fecondo 
stimolo all’approfondimento, in alcuni degli studi sul futurismo di scuola statunitense 
come il fondamentale contributo di Marjorie Perloff, The Futurist Moment: Avant-Garde, 
Avant Guerre, and the Language of Rupture (Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1986) e lormai 
imprescindibile volume, per una acuta lettura di genere, di Cinzia Sartini Blum, The Other 
Modernism: F. T. Marinetti’s Futurist Fiction of Power (Berkeley: U of California P, 
1996). 

Necessario corollario interpretativo alla questione della soggettivita futurista é il 
saggio “Figurazioni del personaggio incendiario: Marinetti e Palazzeschi”, tutto 
concentrato sulla dibattuta collaborazione palazzeschiana al movimento futurista. Da una 
ricognizione dei successivi sviluppi della metafora ignea negli scritti marinettiani, da 
Destruction a i manifesti, il contributo procede con una utile esegesi della complessa 
iconografia della fiamma palazzeschiana, cosi come essa emerge dalle raccolte giovanili 
Cavalli bianchi (1904), Lanterna (1907) e :riflessi (1908). Il sondaggio segue con uno 
studio del personaggio dell’incendiario, nelle essenziali figurazioni futuriste, e 
nell’immaginario poetico palazzeschiano degli anni Dieci. Si conclude con una analisi 
macrotestuale del libro poetico /ncendiario (1910), e della prima autoantologia dei 
Juvenilia recante lo stesso titolo (1914). I risultati di questa articolata disamina lasciano 
emergere una diversa, se non opposta significazione del segno del fuoco da parte di 
Palazzeschi e di Marinetti, una ulteriore conferma della “sostanziale  distonia 
[palazzeschiana] nei confronti dell’ideologia futurista” (79). 

Con “Primordi dell’ /talia Futurista: Corra, Settimelli e la *misurazione’ dell’ opera 
d’arte”, l’autore indaga i rapporti intellettuali tra i futuristi fiorentini in un momento 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 429 


delicato della produzione letteraria del movimento, quello della Grande guerra, foriero di 
svolte estetiche e letterarie. A questo saggio segue un dittico su Bontempelli, di cui si 
scrutina la produzione teatrale, in special modo Nostra dea, e la sua attivita di critico, della 
quale si privilegia la polemologia di argomento futurista. L’analisi della piéce, messa in 
scena la prima volta nel 1925 con la regia di Luigi Pirandello, verte non solo sulla 
modernita implicita alla metaperformativita di alcuni segmenti scenici e dialogici ma, 
soprattutto, sulla presenza di influenze dichiaratamente futuriste nella concezione 
drammatica di uno dei testi bontempelliani pit controversi. Tracce della presenza futurista 
sono rinvenibili nella sollecitudine con cui la scrittura drammaturgica bontempelliana 
accoglie |’influenza del linguaggio filmico nella ideazione e nella rapida successione delle 
scene. Questa facilita alla fertilizzazione incrociata di diversi codici viene imputata alla 
forza persuasiva dell’entusiastico discorso futurista sulla capacita emancipatoria offerta 
dalla modernita. Modernita riflessa anche nelle avveniristiche scenografie realizzate per la 
produzione pirandelliana da V. Marchi, gia scenografo di G. Bragaglia. Tuttavia “l’eroico 
‘avvio’ genetico” del futurismo € come consapevolmente depotenziato dalla “opalescenza 
letteraria” (110) di Nostra Dea. I| piglio normalizzante nei confronti delle innovazioni 
futuriste, attuato sul piano della produzione letteraria, ha il suo riflesso nella pratica critica 
di Bontempelli. Mosso dalla volonta di sottolineare le differenze piuttosto che le filiazioni 
dall’avanguardia storica, il segno critico bontempelliano si anima di una inconsapevole 
ansia dell influenza se, come dimostrano i sondaggi testuali di Saccone, alcune delle opere 
piu vicine al pur breve arruolamento futurista dello scrittore, come Lussuria (1917) 0 La 
guardia alla luna (1920), esibiscono delle inquietanti tracce di un dialogo ravvicinato con 
testi del fondatore del Futurismo. Ed é interessante notare come proprio queste opere 
costituiranno |’oggetto, insieme ad altre, di ferocissime autostroncature quasi a suggellare 
la maturata lontananza estetica dai programmi futuristi con un catartico auto-sacrificio. 
Questa stessa volonta di differenziarsi dalla prassi estetica futurista viene condivisa dalla 
neo-avanguardia, sebbene essa sia animata da diverse, se non opposte, intenzioni 
ideologiche. Con l’ultimo saggio Saccone traccia il bilancio in negativo dell’avventura 
futurista. Infatti, se il discorso estetico della neoavanguardia, nelle successive declinazioni 
dei Novissimi e del Gruppo °63, adotta alcune delle parole d’ordine di matrice futurista, 
esso appare anche fortemente interessato a produrre resistenti anticorpi ideologici. E 
questa, insieme, la riprova della “operativita fatalmente edipica” (142) della prassi 
ideologico-estetica futurista ma anche la testimonianza della lungimiranza critica di 
Marinetti in fatto di deperibilita dei fenomeni letterari ad alto impatto. La prassi letteraria 
della neoavanguardia mutua dai futuristi la strategia editoriale dell’antologia di gruppo, dei 
manifesti ideologico-estetici in cui |’“accrescimento della vitalita” e la “riduzione dell’io” 
(147) costituiscono delle normalizzazioni in chiave post-fenomenologica delle piu 
rombanti proposizioni futuriste. E proprio alla fenomenologia di Anceschi che Saccone 
affida il ruolo di matrice teoretica del movimento neoavanguardistico, seppur consapevole 
delle diverse declinazioni da parte dei numerosi esponenti dei gruppi. Questa raffinata 
capacita filosofica, che si traduce in un consapevole sguardo sulla societa borghese post- 
capitalista, segna la necessita di trapasso da una avanguardia ideologicamente ingenua a 
uno sperimentalismo ideologicamente consapevole. Ecco quindi Guglielmi esaltare la 
lezione di un Gadda piuttosto che il mimetismo materico marinettiano, e a questa 
posizione si affianca il rigetto di Eco del “gesto rivoluzionario” a favore “della filologia” 
(157). Accanto a queste posizioni radicali, pur nel loro rifiuto di un radicalismo cieco ed 
esuberante, Saccone fornisce le coordinate critiche della posizione conciliatoria di 


430 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Sanguineti, il quale “nella polarita museo-mercato [...] non solo individua il destino 
dell’avanguardia storica, ma prefigura anche la parabola della stessa neoavanguarda” 
(158). E difatti proprio questa parabola predisporra la neoavanguardia sul sentiero del 
postmoderno, aprendo il varco, Sanguineti in testa, al “ripescaggio ironico e straniato della 
tradizione, la commistione dei generi, il pastiche citazionistico™ (166). 

Il percorso critico tracciato dallo studioso, dall’alba della genesi della nuova 
soggettivita futurista al crepuscolo dell’invenzione letteraria ridotta ad asfittico gioco 
citazionale, costituisce una ponderata indagine su alcune giunture fondamentali della 
prassi estetica del moderno, sia essa declinata nel folgorante entusiasmo iconoclasta del 
futurismo sia nelle pit’ caute formulazioni bontempelliane. In quanto tale, il volume di 
Antonio Saccone costituisce una importante voce nel sempre inesausto dibattito critico 
sulla modernita. 

Daniela La Penna, University of Reading 


Eugenio Montale: Selected Poems. Edited by George Talbot. Dublin: Belfield Italian 
Library, 2000. Pp. 280. 

E apparsa di recente una nuova edizione di poesie di Eugenio Montale curata da George 
Talbot, Eugenio Montale: Selected Poems. Con questa edizione, Talbot ci offre una scelta 
di poesie di Montale in lingua originale e la correda di note esplicative in inglese. 

Nella pretazione, Talbot spiega che Eugenio Montale: Selected Poems vuole ovviare 
all’assenza di una edizione italiana commentata integrale (5), inducendoci a pensare che il 
suo libro rappresenti solo una tappa preliminare, raggiunta in previsione del futuro 
completamento di tutto un percorso. Talbot precisa che il suo Eugenio Montale: Selected 
Poems vuole distinguersi da lavori simili. Ci ricorda che gia esistono edizioni commentate 
per un pubblico italofono. Troviamo sul mercato |’edizione annotata di una singola opera 
di Montale, Le occasioni, curata da Dante Isella (1996) e quella di una selezione di poesie, 
Eugenio Montale: Poesie, curata da Angelo Marchese (1991). Per il mondo anglofono 
rimane pregevole Montale: Selected Poems (1975), edita da Ghanshyam Singh, che é 
attualmente fuori stampa (5). 

La grande differenza fra la nuova edizione e quelle prima menzionate — di nuovo 
Talbot dichiara — sta nel fatto che essa soltanto raccoglie e commenta una scelta di poesie 
scritte da Montale nel corso dell’intera carriera poetica (5). 

Che dire pero dei contenuti del libro di Talbot a confronto con quelli di altri lavori 
che, pur essendo dissimili in genere e intento, aiutano in qualche modo il lettore 
nell’esegesi testuale? Ci riferiamo agli svariati volumi di traduzioni in inglese delle poesie 
di Montale con testo a fronte e note, come quelli di William Arrowsmith o quelli di 
Jonathan Galassi. Oppure pensiamo alle diverse edizioni critiche in italiano, come Tutte le 
poesie di Giorgio Zampa, rivolta a un pubblico vario, 0 L'opera in versi di Rosanna 
Bettarini e Gianfranco Contini, indirizzata pil a specialisti —edizioni che, oltre a rilevare 
le varianti dei manoscritti e le storie delle singole raccolte, nelle note finali includono 
estratti dalle lettere di Montale e sporadiche osservazioni critiche sui testi. 

Come abbiamo visto, con la nuova edizione Talbot presenta un’antologia di poesie 
scelte da ogni raccolta poetica montaliana. Arrowsmith, invece, traduce e commenta 
singole opere, e Jonathan Galassi, che gia aveva lavorato sulle prime e ultime poesie di 
Montale, con il suo recente Collected Poems, traduce e commenta poesie scritte fra il 1920 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 431 


e il 1954. Nonostante l’edizione critica di Bettarini e Contini e quella di Zampa varino 
appena nei contenuti (il libro di Zampa ha una pit: grande sezione di “Poesie disperse"), 
entrambe comprendono quasi tutte le poesie di Montale, poiché escludono quelle 
pubblicate dopo la morte del poeta. 

L*indice dell’edizione di Talbot rivela che le poesie in essa contenute sono tratte da 
Ossi di seppia, Le occasioni, La bufera e altro, Satura, Diario del ‘71 e del ‘72, Quaderno 
di quattro anni, Altri versi e Diario postumo. Nonostante |’inclusivita anticipata nella 
prefazione, Talbot tralascia poesie fra quelle che Lanfranco Caretti, assieme ad _ altri, 
definisce del “Protomontale”: le sperimentazioni giovanili del Quaderno genovese 0 
“Accordi” (se, da “Accordi,” escludiamo “Corno inglese”, che € poi confluita in Ossi di 
Seppia). 

Nel volume di Talbot, le sezioni di poesie che rappresentano le diverse opere di 
Montale figurano in modo asimmetrico. Sono molte le poesie tratte da Ossi di seppia, Le 
occasioni, La bufera e altro e Satura, poche quelle prese dal Diario del '71 e del '72,¢€ 
davvero esigue quelle che esemplificano le altre raccolte: tre sono le poesie da Altri versie 
due quelle dal Diario postumo. Soltanto le parti “Mottetti” nelle Occasioni e “Xenia I” e 
“Xenia II” in Satura sono complete. Certe sezioni che appaiono nelle singole opere sono 
spesso eliminate. Per esempio, in Ossi di seppia, mancano “Sarcofaghi”, “Altri versi” e 
“Riviere.” 

Nel nuovo volume, le raccolte poetiche di Montale sono precedute da_ utili 
osservazioni introduttive. Con tali osservazioni, molto brevi, Talbot indica le diverse 
edizioni delle opere, descrive il modo in cui tali opere sono strutturate e registra sporadici 
commenti espressi da Montale sulle stesse; infine, spiega il senso delle personae poetiche 
dominanti e le tematiche principali. Talbot ci avverte che la lezione definitiva dei testi da 
lui scelta é ripresa dalle edizioni critiche L opera in versi, Tutte le poesie e Diario postumo 
(ed. Annalisa Cima) (6). Per le note ai singoli testi, si € avvalso di letture critiche 
precedenti a cui ha aggiunto commenti propri (5). 

Le note ai testi sono esaustive. Tra esse, quelle alle poesie delle Occasioni e La 
bufera sono generalmente pili ricche e particolareggiate rispetto alle altre, e percio piu 
valevoli. Nelle Occasioni e La bufera e altro, oltre a preziose spiegazioni, Talbot ci offre 
quasi sempre dettagli bibliografici di lavori critici o glosse montaliane pertinenti. In opere 
diverse, invece, di solito tali informazioni bibliografiche e glosse mancano. Quando, ad 
esempio, le note di Ossi di seppia rimandano agli echi dannunziani in poesie come “I 
limoni”, esse non includono dati di lavori critici che hanno esplorato a fondo il rapporto tra 
Montale e D’Annunzio, tra questi La tradizione del novecento: da D’Annunzio a Montale 
di Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo — un libro che, comunque, é segnalato fra le letture ancillari 
suggerite. 

Le note ai testi riportano quasi sempre la data della pubblicazione delle poesie, e 
talvolta indicano anche il periodo della loro gestazione. Elucidano inoltre riferimenti di 
vario tipo. Per quanto concerne la tradizione piu strettamente letteraria, esplicitano 
richiami a opere di Gabriele D’Annunzio, Friedrich Hélderlin, Dante, Shakespeare e altri. 
Pit di rado, segnalano echi da poeti come Vittorio Alfieri e Ugo Fuscolo, senza 
menzionare i titoli dei lavori da cui tali echi risuonano (54). 

Quando é il caso, le note palesano allusioni bibliche o classiche, oppure offrono 
informazioni su quei dati storici, biografici e culturali che possono fare comprendere 
meglio le poesie. Per esempio, la prima nota di “Nuove stanze” delle Occasioni registra 
che Montale scrisse tale poesia a Firenze nel 1939, durante gli ultimi giorni in Italia di 


432 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Clizia, ossia Irma Brandeis. Riporta poi le parole di Montale in una lettera a Gianfranco 
Contini. Nella lettera, Montale descrive il modo in cui ha creato la poesia e definisce il 
genere della stessa “pit! fiorentin[o], pit intarsiat{o], piu dur[o].” Infine, spiega che 
“Nuove Stanze” fu scritta in un momento storico travagliato. Le leggi razziali fasciste 
erano state promulgate nel 1938. Mentre la seconda guerra mondiale si approssimava, 
Clizia, di religione ebraica, avrebbe dovuto necessariamente lasciare |’Italia (116). 

Le note presentano anche analisi di immagini e nozioni ricorrenti nella poesia di 
Montale. In esse, Talbot esamina il significato di elementi fondamentali come il girasole, 
la maglia rotta nella rete e l’anguilla; oppure quello di concetti portanti come quello della 
contingenza, della salvezza e del male di vivere. Sempre nelle note, Talbot include 
traduzioni di versi pil oscuri, e sporadicamente fa riferimento a punti grammaticali che 
forse possono risultare complicati per un lettore che non sia di madrelingua italiana. 
Identifica forme del passato remoto, dell’imperativo e del congiuntivo. Offre raramente 
spiegazioni di metrica e stilistica. 

Nell’introduzione che precede le poesie, Talbot descrive a grandi linee la vita di 
Montale e il periodo storico in cui visse, collegando iI tutto alla sua poesia e ai temi della 
stessa (5). Fa riferimento al periodo ligure del Quaderno genovese e Ossi di seppia, a 
quello fiorentino delle Occasioni e parte de La bufera e altro, a quello milanese delle 
ultime opere. Da particolare rilievo a elementi biografici che si riconducono alle presenze 
femminili della poesia montaliana: Clizia, Volpe, Mosca e altre. 

All’introduzione seguono una nota biografica su Montale e minime osservazioni su 
varieta linguistiche presenti nella sua poesia (due pagine); successivamente € introdotta 
una bibliografia sulle maggiori prose e poesie di Montale e su alcune letture critiche, 
scritte sia in italiano che in inglese. Un breve vocabolario € collocato dopo le opere, a 
chiusura del volume; esso ordina alfabeticamente termini italiani pil 0 meno inconsueti, 
con la loro traduzione in inglese. 

Per il modo in cui si presenta, la nuova edizione di Talbot si rivela valida per un 
pubblico specifico: anglofono e con una conoscenza intermedia o avanzata dell italiano. 
Qui negli Stati Uniti potrebbe essere particolarmente indicata per corsi universitari di 
poesia italiana, soprattutto per quelli undergraduate. Inviterebbe gli studenti a 
comprendere i testi in italiano senza l’appoggio di una traduzione in inglese 
immediatamente disponibile. Allo stesso tempo, offrirebbe informazioni bibliografiche 
basilari per coloro che volessero approfondire lo studio di Montale. 

L’edizione di Talbot é appropriata anche per un pubblico che apprezza la letteratura, 
ma che non é necessariamente specializzato in essa: una parte di quel pubblico a cui si 
rivolgono le traduzioni commentate di Montale in inglese con testo a fronte. Ovviamente, 
rispetto alle traduzioni, il libro di Talbot si contraddistingue per la sua diversa natura, e per 
il fatto che, come gia detto, ci presenta poesie dell’ultimo Montale. Il nuovo volume, 
tuttavia, come le traduzioni, include esaurienti commenti ai testi, un’accurata parte 
introduttiva sulla vita e sull’opera di Montale, e una precisa bibliografia selezionata. Prima 
di iniziare la lettura di Montale, quindi, occorre porsi una domanda conclusiva. Soprattutto 
se si ¢ anglofoni e si ha una buona conoscenza dell’italiano, che cosa ci é pit utile, 
un’edizione come quella di Talbot, oppure una traduzione annotata? Diremmo che ¢ 
questione di gusti e di scopi specifici. La risposta quindi sta ai lettori stessi. 


Paola Sica, Connecticut College 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 433 


Walter Valeri, ed. Franca Rame. A Woman on Stage. West Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 
2000. Pp. 224. 

As a teacher of a course in English dealing with Franca Rame and her works, | was 
overjoyed at the publication of a book entitled Franca Rame. A Woman on Stage, since 
there has never been enough critical material in English on the Italian actress/playwright. | 
will certainly use this book, as it contains several interesting articles and makes available 
for the first time in English the latest play in which Rame is co-author and sole 
protagonist. My high expectations, however, have not been totally fulfilled. 

The editor of the book, Walter Valeri, has written a brief opening text, in which he 
pays homage to Rame, claiming that her main contribution to theatre lies in her “consistent 
ability to interpret for her audience the significance of current socio-political events” and 
concluding that “she has produced dramatic works of art that will forever occupy a place 
in the history of the theatre” (4). Valeri’s piece, however, fails to provide any real 
introduction to the collection, or to explain the rationale behind the mixture of scholarly 
writings and dramatic texts. 

The first critical essay, Marga Cottino-Jones’s “The Transgressive Voice of a 
Resisting Woman,” is a longer version of an article already published in /talica in 1995. 
After looking at the female characters of some of Fo’s early farces, Cottino-Jones devotes 
particular attention to two of Rame’s monologues from Tutta casa, letto e chiesa: Il 
risveglio and Medea. In these two pieces, Cottino-Jones claims, the female protagonists 
involve the public “in a provocative questioning of domestic and sexual politics issues” 
(20) through the use of humour in the first, and tragedy in the second. For Franca Rame’s 
two plays published under the title Parliamo di donne, Cottino-Jones underlines the new 
presence of the mother-daughter relationship, and the attention to important issues in 
contemporary society, such as the problems caused by drug addiction and AIDS, as well as 
human alienation. In both L 'eroina and La donna grassa, however, Cottino-Jones notices, 
the heavy irony typical of other works by Fo and Rame is compensated by a “more evident 
compassionate touch” (27). Cottino-Jones concludes her essay with an analysis of Sesso? 
Grazie, tanto per gradire, arguing that in this work Rame uses her own body “as text on 
which the sexual history of Italian women is inscribed” (42). 

The next section of the book is the English version of Sesso?, which is translated as 
Sex? Thanks, Don't Mind if I Do! It is preceded by a brief introduction in which Ron 
Jenkins, its translator, recounts his experience as an onstage simultaneous interpreter for 
Franca Rame. I found a few problems with the translation, such as the embarrassed answer 
of a mother to the question: “What is a penis?” Her answer is: “It’s a legal term ... in 
courtrooms they always talk about crimes and punishments!” (67), which hardly makes 
sense and certainly does not recreate the pun of the original Italian: “E un termine 
giuridico ... Infatti si dice: dei delitti e delle pene!” (Sesso? Grazie, tanto per gradire. In 
Le commedie di Dario Fo e Franca Rame. Vol. 13. Torino: Einaudi, 1998, 84). 

Another example of mistranslation occurs in the section “Menstruation.” In the Italian 
text, Rame recalls the popular wisdom that a menstruating woman will not make good 
mayonnaise: “Noi siamo convinti che se siamo in quei famosi giorni e facciamo la 
maionese ... la maionese ‘va a male’! (4 questo punto c’é sempre una gran risata del 
pubblico). Anche qui!? Non é che l’uovo é gelato, l’olio € caldo ... no! Fai la maionese ... 
impazzisce ... Mestruata! Che poi lo dicono anche alle ottantenni!” (Sesso? 104). This is 
how Jenkins mistranslates the passage, changing its sense completely: “We are convinced 
that during those famous days, we are ‘making mayonnaise’ ... ‘the mayonnaise “is going 


434 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


bad.” (Audience laughs.) Is that what you call it here, too? It’s not eggs and ice cream, oil 
and hot ... no! You make the mayonnaise ... you go crazy ... you menstruate! They even 
say it about eighty-year olds!” (79). 

The translation ends with the piece 7he Rape. Here the reader of this book may be 
puzzled: both Cottino-Jones’s and Anderlini-D’Onofrio’s articles in this same collection 
mention the final part of this play as a short story, in a northern dialect, about a young 
couple obsessed with making love in all possible positions. In the Einaudi text it is 
explained that this fab/iau was in fact the ending of Sesso? in the first years of its staging, 
and was later substituted with Lo stupro (see Sesso? 147). A simple editorial comment 
would have explained the translator’s choice of one ending over another, and the different 
versions referred to in this book. 

The remaining contributions to the collection are critical articles which discuss 
different aspects of Rame’s career. “Rame, Fo and the Tragic Grotesque: The Politics of 
Women’s Experience” is a slightly updated version of the last part of Pina Piccoio’s 
doctoral dissertation on the works of Dario Fo. The essay aims to highlight the changes in 
the female characters of Fo’s plays — beginning with the farces and the militant plays — 
and to stress the “elements of innovation introduced by the specific presence of Franca 
Rame as a female playwright” (116). Taking as examples the monologues Una donna tutta 
sola, Medea, lo Ulrike grido, Lo stupro, and La madre, Piccolo finds that the elements 
typical of Fo’s exposure of capitalistic oppression, such as farce and carnivalesque 
reversal, are now combined with an increased presence of tragic elements, thus 
highlighting the “dilemmas confronting those seeking to rebel and establish new 
paradigms” (132). 

Anna Botta’s article, “Female Chronotypes. The Construction of Time in Franca 
Rame’s // risveglio and Matilde Serao’s La virti di Checchina,” points at the specificity of 
representing women’s temporal experiences through an analysis of Serao’s story, 
published in 1883, and Rame’s monologue of 1977. In // risveglio, Rame portrays a 
woman getting herself ready for work and her baby ready for day-care, while at the same 
time trying to recollect the events of the previous evening in order to find the key that will 
allow her to leave her home. The protagonist, therefore, tries to give an order to her 
disordered, everyday household activities, but, Botta concludes, “the failure [...] to impose 
such an order Is precisely what Rame’s play performs” (149). 

If Fo is considered the modern giu//are, Rame rightly deserves the title of giu//aressa, 
claims Luciana d’Arcangeli in her article “Franca Rame giudlaressa.” After going over the 
theatrical, cinematographical, and television career of the couple, d’Arcangeli states that 
Rame became an independent giu//aressa in 1973, when she improvised a street 
performance in protest of Fo’s arrest. However, her talent to denounce oppression and 
ignorance, and promote change with plays inflected by social, political, and local events — 
as a giullare or giullaressa would do — came especially to light in the one-woman 
giullarate, Female Parts, in 1978, and Sex?, in 1996. D’Arcangeli concludes that Rame 
has reappropriated for women the right to a specific comic voice, which differs from the 
voice of a giullare for its use of an overt eroticism which still maintains “the 
ingenuousness and naturalness of the peasant world” (173). 

Antonio Scuderi’s essay on “Improvisation and Framing in the Fo-Rame 
Collaboration” first brings to light the influence of Rame’s early theatrical experience, 
thanks to her family’s links to the commedia dell'arte, in the development of Fo’s ability 
to improvise at the moment of performance, which is one of the main characteristics of his 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 435 


famous giullarate. Then, Scuderi mentions the prologue as a technique which Fo has 
passed on to Rame, and which “allows her to underscore and to highlight the principal 
feminist themes of her monologues” (181). 

Scuderi’s claim that “without the influence of Fo [...] Rame’s career would 
undoubtedly have gone the way of conventional stage acting” (175, emphasis added) finds 
an immediate counterpart in Joseph Farrell’s rhetorical question: “What if Dario Fo and 
Franca Rame had never met, or if, having met, had disliked each other?” (205). In his 
article “Franca Rame’s Nose, or What if They Had Never Met?,” Farrell explores the 
characteristics of Rame’s acting, noting, however, that “she is like a soprano who has sung 
only Puccini roles” (210). While in the early plays authored by Fo the audience is able to 
appreciate her “easy command of timing, pace, rhythm” as well as her “ability to sidle 
unobtrusively into absurd situations” (211), in the later pieces, which she co-authored, 
Rame is often able to bring the tragic element to the foreground. Thus, one is left 
wondering what kind of acting she would have produced had she followed her own 
theatrical career. 

The much debated topic of the collaboration between Fo and Rame is taken up again 
in Serena Anderlini-D’Onofrio’s essay “From The Lady Is To Be Disposed Of to An Open 
Couple: Franca Rame and Dario Fo’s Theater Partnership.” Anderlini-D’Onofrio picks up 
the theme of the scandal created in 1997 by the attribution to Fo of the Nobel Prize in 
Literature, claiming that the real scandal was that “the prize had not jointly been assigned 
to the performing couple” (188). Thus, Anderlini-D’Onofrio stresses Rame’s three major 
contributions to the Fo-Rame’s theatrical partnership: her experience with popular 
performance and culture; her editorial and authorial efforts, seen especially in the later, 
woman-centered plays; and her role as archivist of the company. 

I have already mentioned my reservations about the lack of an explicit rationale 
behind this collection. My reading of Franca Rame. A Woman on Stage was also marred 
by frequent misspellings; inconsistent and sometimes unclear systems of reference; lack of 
coherence in the use of English and Italian; lack of explanation for reference to different 
editions of Fo and Rame’s works, especially relevant in the case of Sesso?I believe that 
this book will be very useful for those, like myself, who teach courses on Franca Rame and 
need easily available critical material and English translations of plays. My final 
impression, however, is that a stronger editorial effort would have made for a more 
coherent and scholarly work. 

Daniela Cavallaro, University of Auckland 


Rodica Diaconescu-Blumenfeid and Ada Testaferri, eds. The Pleasure of Writing. 
Critical Essays on Dacia Maraini. W. Lafayette: Purdue UP, 2000. 
Questa bella raccolta di saggi su Dacia Maraini fa parte della collana “Purdue Studies in . 
Romance Literatures”. Si tratta di un ottimo contributo nel campo non solo degli Women's 
Studies ma dell’italianistica in generale, e questo sia per l’argomento (era ora che 
comparisse un tale studio sulle opere della Maraini), sia per la qualita dei saggi, 
dell’apparato bibliografico e della veste editoriale. La scelta della lingua inglese come 
veicolo é stata senz’altro saggia, ma ci si pud e ci si deve augurare che quest’opera possa 
apparire presto anche sugli scaffali delle librerie e delle biblioteche italiane. 

Le editrici hanno suddiviso i saggi in cinque parti. Il primo gruppo, intitolato 


436 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


“Preliminaries”, comprende due contributi: il saggio introduttivo di Rodica Diaconescu- 
Blumenfeld ed un intervento della Maraini stessa, “Reflections on the Logical and IIlogical 
Bodies of My Sexual Compatriots”. E questa una rielaborazione-rivisitazione in inglese 
dell’introduzione a La bionda, la bruna e l'asino del 1987, che Maraini ha riveduto ed 
ampliato specificatamente per questa raccolta di saggi. “Reflections” ha un valore 
particolare anche perché si tratta della prima volta in cui il bell’intervento della Maraini é 
disponibile ai lettori in lingua inglese. Trattasi, come suggerisce il titolo, di una serie di 
riflessioni che la scrittrice fa a partire dal problema del rapporto di sfiducia che si € venuto 
a stabilire tra scrittura femminile e critica, con aneddoti gustosi sulla pretesa neutralita 
delle giurie dei premi letterari che si professano cieche nei confronti della scrittura 
(basandosi sull’affermazione che non esiste differenza tra “scrivere donna” e “scrivere 
uomo’). Ma, infine, ricorda Maraini, si scrive con il corpo: ed il corpo ha un sesso, ed il 
sesso ha una lunga storia di cui preserviamo una memoria atavica (27). Il saggio 
introduttivo é il primo di due distinti e pregevoli contributi della Diaconescu-Blumenfeld. 
In questo primo saggio si possono trovare non solo un’ottima introduzione alla Maraini 
donna, attivista, scrittrice, ma anche delle chiare discussioni di idee-chiave della critica 
letteraria applicata al mondo degli Women's Studies: dal controcanone al corpo come 
fondamento della soggettivita, alla differenza sessuale, all’argomento della scrittura 
femminile in generale — si tratta quindi anche di un validissimo strumento per 
l’insegnamento di corsi sulle scrittrici italiane. 

Il secondo gruppo di saggi ruota intorno al tema “Demythicizing Genre: Issues of 
Representation and Language”. Questa seconda parte si apre con un bel saggio di Ada 
Testaferri incentrato su uno studio di Voci non tanto dal punto di vista di romanzo-giallo 
quanto come Bildungsroman in prospettiva femminista. Entrambi i due tipi di narrativa 
hanno infatti in comune l’elemento del quest, della ricerca sia del sé sia dell’altro (in 
questo caso dell’assassino) (41). Testaferri analizza le tecniche narrative utilizzate dalla 
scrittrice, tecniche tradizionali del discorso androcentrico, ma cooptate e rimodellate da 
Maraini per adattarle alle esigenze delia scrittura femminile. Testaferri si sofferma in 
particolar modo su come Maraini si sia qui appropriata del tema prediletto del genere 
giallo, la violenza contro le donne, e su come lo abbia riscritto in modo del tutto nuovo. A 
questo saggio segue il contributo di Corrado Federici, un complesso quanto intrigante 
studio delle configurazioni spaziali nella poesia di Maraini come spatialized gender. 
Federici parte dalla nozione che nella poesia venga costruita una spazialita ipotetica o 
virtuale che ospita e determina una serie di immagini (gendered) che corrispondono pit o 
meno alla topografia bachelardiana del nostro intimo essere (61). La seconda sezione della 
raccolta si conclude con l’intervento di Elisabetta Properzi-Nelsen, che si concentra sulla 
écriture feminine nella prima narrativa di Maraini, con speciale attenzione a Leta del 
malessere, Donna in guerra e Memorie di una ladra. Properzi-Nelsen pone I’accento, in 
modo estremamente chiaro e sistematico, su come lo stile di queste prime opere della 
Maraini anticipi per molti versi la ricerca femminista e la pratica letteraria della scrittura 
femminile portate avanti da pensatrici quali Kristeva, Cixous, Irigaray, Wittig. 

La terza parte della raccolta si presenta col titolo “Poetics and Practices of 
Liberation” e si apre con un bel saggio di Virginia Picchietti, “Symbolic Mediation and 
Female Community in Dacia Maraini’s Fiction”. Incentrato sul rapporto di amicizia tra 
varie eroine della narrativa della Maraini (in particolare quelle de // manifesto, Donna in 
guerra e Lettere a Marina), il saggio di Picchietti si sofferma su come tali rapporti 
diventino dei luoghi propizi non solo per sperimentare dei legami di comunita tra donne, 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d‘italianistica 19 (2001) 437 


ma anche per esplorare la soggettivita stessa dell’essere donna (116). Il contributo 
successivo é il saggio di Giovanna Bellesia, “Variations on a Theme: Violence against 
Women in the Writings of Dacia Maraini’. I] saggio si apre con un’ottima discussione 
della sofferta lotta per la modifica della legislazione sullo stupro in Italia e dell’altrettanto 
difficile problema dell’educazione, sia maschile che femminile, su questo tema. Prendendo 
spunto da Voci, Donna in guerra e La lunga vita di Marianna Ucria, Bellesia pone 
l'accento su come Maraini si sia battuta per esibire e debellare le innumerevoli 
manifestazioni della violenza contro le donne. La sezione si chiude con il saggio di 
Daniela Cavallaro, “Dacia Maraini’s ‘Barricade Theater’”. Si tratta di un interessante 
studio di due opere teatrali della fine degli anni °60 e dei primi anni ’70, // manifesto e La 
donna perfetta, studio che offre un bel panorama del teatro femminista impegnato di quel 
periodo e del ruolo di primaria importanza che Maraini vi svolse. 

La quarta parte della raccolta, “Historiographies”, si apre con un contributo di 
Giancarlo Lombardi, “A memoria: Charting a Cultural Map for Women’s Transition from 
Preistoria to Storia’. || saggio prende in esame A memoria, un romanzo d’avanguardia del 
1967 scritto nello stile del nowveau roman francese. Definitolo il romanzo di Maraini pit 
oscuro e pili evitato dai critici letterari (152), Lombardi ne offre una lettura che mette in 
luce gli aspetti che lo rendono una sorta di ritratto della “preistoria” femminile. Le donne, 
infatti, come afferma Maraini stessa in un’intervista citata dal Lombardi, sono entrate a 
pieno titolo nella “storia” solo nella nostra era, mentre A memoria appartiene ancora 
all’epoca che ha preceduto l’avvento del femminismo in_ Italia. E poi la volta 
dell’intervento di Maria Ornella Marotti, “La /unga vita di Marianna Ucria: A Feminist 
Revisiting of the Eighteenth Century”. E questo un ottimo studio in chiave foucauldiana 
del romanzo storico di Maraini come riscrittura, secondo una prospettiva di vita personale, 
della storia culturale del XVIII secolo. I] romanzo, come osserva la Marotti, puO venir 
interpretato come un tentativo di creare una storia sociale e culturale della Sicilia del 
XVIII secolo dalla prospettiva di una coscienza femminile che é al tempo stesso centrale e 
marginale, all’interno ed al di fuori del linguaggio (165). La quarta parte del libro si 
conclude con il saggio di Paola Cari, “Vocal Marginality: Dacia Maraini’s Veronica 
Franco”. Si tratta di una lettura dell’ opera teatrale del 1992 Veronica, meretrice e scrittora. 
Mettendo a fuoco le discrepanze tra la Veronica Franco storica e quella teatrale, Cart 
mostra come Maraini, creando personaggi e situazioni del tutto fittizie (in particolare 11 
fatto che la Franco si trovi in un lazzaretto ed incontri una certa Suor Anzola), abbia 
incentrato quest’opera teatrale sul tema dell’amicizia femminile come modo di 
oltrepassare una situazione di marginalita e di scoprire e riappropriarsi di se stesse — nello 
specifico dell’opera, l’incontro fra Veronica Franco e Suor Anzola che si conchiude in un 
reciproco invito a mettersi in viaggio insieme ed abbandonare il lazzaretto in cui le due si 
erano inizialmente trovate. 

La quinta ed ultima parte della raccolta s’intitola “Reclaiming the Body in the 
Construction of Subjectivity”. La sezione si apre con il secondo contributo di Rodica 
Diaconescu-Blumenfeld, “Body as Will: Incarnate Voice in Dacia Maraini~. Il saggio 
prende spunto da una canzoncina che Manila canta alla sua piccina in Dialogo di una 
prostituta con un suo cliente, per aprirsi poi ad una serie di considerazioni sull’importanza 
del tema della violenza contro le donne nell’opera della Maraini ed a come la scrittrice ne 
metta in mostra |’ordinaria e straordinaria bruttezza. La “poetica del possesso” utilizzata 
da Maraini, afferma Diaconescu-Blumenfeld, fa sorgere delle precise e profonde questioni 
etiche nei suoi lettori (199). Molte e molto belle le considerazioni fatte su esempi presi non 


438 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


solo dal citato Dialogo, ma anche da Donna in guerra, Lettere a Marina, Voci. La sezione 
continua con I’intervento di Gabrielle Cody, “Remembering What the Closed Eye Sees: 
Some Notes on Dacia Maraini’s Postmodern Oresteia™. Si tratta di un interessantissimo 
studio sull’opera teatrale / sogni di Clitennestra, una riscrittura dell’Orestea in chiave di 
parodia, in cui il “corpo” centrale non é pil’ quello di Oreste, ma quello della madre 
Clitennestra. Al saggio di Cody fa seguito il contributo di Pauline Dagnino, “Revolution in 
the Laundry”. Questo saggio analizza i personaggi di Tota e Giottina, di Donna in guerra, 
dal punto di vista del semiotico kristeviano, la sfera del pre-sociale e pre-culturale. Sarebbe 
proprio grazie ai suoi incontri con Tota e Giottina che Vanna, la protagonista del romanzo, 
impara a riconoscere la donna come “femminile negato” ed indifferenziato, diventando 
cosi in grado di crescere e mettere in discussione la propria posizione sociale. La raccolta 
si conclude con un interessantissimo excursus sull’esperienza cinematografica di Maraini, 
il saggio “Toward a Poor Feminist Cinema: The Experimental Films of Dacia Maraini” di 
Aine O’Healy. Dopo aver parlato dei documentari che Maraini diresse (Aborto: parlano le 
donne, del 1976, e Ritratti di donne africane, in tre parti, dello stesso periodo), O’ Healy si 
sofferma sui tre film sperimentali in super-8 che Maraini scrisse e diresse tra il 1976 ed il 
1979: Mio padre amore mio, La bella addormentata nel bosco, e Giochi di latte. \\ 
contributo di O’Healy é ancor pili prezioso in quanto queste opere di Maraini sono oggi 
praticamente introvabili. 

Cinzia Di Giulio, Merrimack College 


Vivienne Suvini-Hand. Mirage and Camouflage. Hiding behind Hermeticism in 
Ungaretti’s L’ Allegria. Leicester: Troubador, 2000. Pp. xiii + 113. 
A quattordici anni dalla morte dell’autore de L‘a/legria, Robert Dombroski pubblicava 
“Ungaretti: tra innocenza e fascismo”, il contributo certamente pit: controverso del volume 
L'esistenza ubbidiente. Letterati italiani sotto il fascismo (Napoli: Liguori, 1984). In 
questo saggio, lo studioso constatava il silenzio critico sull’eventuale riflesso nell’opera 
poetica del coinvolgimento fascista di Ungaretti. Ne individuava le ragioni nella “quasi 
totale mancanza di supporti teorici generali che agevolano I’interpretazione socio-politica 
della poesia lirica” (71) e nell’oggettiva difficolta, da parte dei critici, di elaborare il 
risvolto politico di un’opera contraddistinta da un peso specifico formale tale da rendere 
quasi inutile, se non offensiva, l’indagine orientata verso fini non specificamente esegetici. 

Lo spessore polemico e l’innovativa chiave di lettura offerte dal saggio di Dombroski 
suonavano come un grido di battaglia a chiunque avesse dimestichezza con la cauta 
esegesi ungarettiana. I] discorso critico distillato, ad esempio, nel volume La critica e 
Ungaretti (Bologna: Cappelli, 1977) concentrandosi sull’aspetto formale della poesia, 
registrava l’imbarazzo di chi, come Raboni o Luperini, avventurando lo sguardo oltre la 
specola dell’analisi stilistica, recalcitrava davanti alla innegabile contraddizione tra le due 
personae del poeta, |’auto-proclamantesi uomo di pace e l’entusiasta interventista prima, 
l"infiammato sostenitore del fascismo poi. 

D’altra parte, i curatori del Meridiano Saggi e interventi (Milano: Mondadori. 1974), 
M. Diacono e L. Rebay, nella nota all’intervento ungarettiano Originalita del fascismo 
(1927) ridussero alla stregua di un abbaglio il coinvolgimento ungarettiano con il 
mussolinismo, una variante evidentemente considerata meno ideologicamente vischiosa 
del totalitarismo fascista. Il saggio di Dombroski. lungi dall’ipotecare in negativo la 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 439 


raffinata poesia di Ungaretti, tentava piuttosto di recuperare all’analisi critica un aspetto 
negletto dell’avventura intellettuale del poeta, indicando — qualora si volesse giungere ad 
una valutazione ideologica del corpus poetico — i due binari paralleli su cui tale indagine 
doveva essere impostata: una disamina tematica del “vuoto di senso” e un’analisi della 
“forma ‘metapoetica’ dell’espressione” (73). 

La critica ungarettiana ha, da allora, metabolizzato le indicazioni di Dombroski, 
affiancando al dovuto rispetto filologico dell’opera una crescente consapevolezza delle 
forti simpatie fasciste del poeta, come sta a dimostrare l’analisi dell’epistolario 
ungarettiano indirizzato a Mussolini contenuta nell’importante volume di F. Petrocchi, 
Scrittori italiani e Fascismo (Roma: Archivio Guido Izzi, 1997). Il saggio di Vivienne 
Suvini-Hand, alla luce di questo rapido percorso storiografico, incarna un nuovo stadio 
della critica ungarettiana, una fase che registra la capacita di assorbire le implicazioni 
storiche dell’ambiguita ideologica del poeta nell’analisi critica della sua opera in versi. 

Orientato principalmente a un pubblico di studenti universitari, anche se dal punto di 
vista metodologico non sembra esibirne legami, lo studio si innesta nel percorso indicato 
da Dombroski. Lo studioso americano aveva intuito che |’atto poetico presupposto 
dall’A//egria — una inebriante e fulminea illuminazione — implicava una fantasmagorica 
€ inquietante dissoluzione del singolo nell’ Assoluto. Cosi dicendo, Dombroski interpretava 
tale trasfigurazione come una delle avvisaglie fenomenologiche della futura fascinazione 
ungarettiana con la mistica totalitaria del fascismo. 

Lo studio di Vivienne Suvini-Hand articola l’analisi del libro ungarettiano sui due 
piani indicati da Dombroski, conciliando una dettagliata disamina delle immagini del libro 
e una approfondita ricerca sullo stile, nell’intento di tessere, attorno alla distintiva 
fisionomia linguistico-espressiva dell’ A//egria, una fitta rete di fonti e possibili suggestioni 
che storicizzano e insieme permettono di apprezzare la modernita della cifra ungarettiana. 
Il percorso analitico di Mirage and Camouflage si snoda in cinque agili capitoli, nei quali 
il primario intento didattico-pedagogico (segnalato dalle puntuali traduzioni in inglese di 
ogni passo ungarettiano citato e delle massime esegetiche della critica italiana piu 
rappresentativa) si coniuga con la volonta di recuperare alla originaria complessita I’intima 
contraddizione (pacifismo / fascismo) di un poeta, e di un’opera, tanto importanti per la 
cultura italiana del ventesimo secolo. 

Ed é€ proprio nel desiderio di rispettare l’irriducibilita della peculiare contraddizione 
ideologica ungarettiana che Suvini-Hand elegge tale elemento a principio generatore delle 
ambiguita stilistiche e tematiche dell’ A//egria. Intenzione della studiosa € dimostrare come 
le “proto-fascist connotations” (xii) di liriche come /talia sono, in realta, rintracciabili 
anche in testi tradizionalmente considerati incontrovertibili affermazioni pacifiste, come 
Veglia e Sono una creatura. 

Uno degli aspetti pit stimolanti del primo capitolo, “‘Man of Peace,’ or Man of 
War?” consiste nell’ interessante rilettura dell iconografia cristologica che percorre |’intera 
raccolta. Infatti, accanto ai Vangeli, emerge la concomitanza della reinterpretazione 
nietzscheana_ dell’ecce homo. Tale circostanza, corroborata dalla frequentazione 
ungarettiana dell’ opera del filosofo (documentata sin dal 1904), modifica in qualche modo 
la ricezione di testi — Pellegrinaggio, Distacco, Peso — nei quali il riferimento al Nuovo 
Testamento suggerisce una loro interpretazione in senso pacifista. / fiumi, in particolare, 
diventa il campo di tensione tra il sottofondo evangelico e il dissacrante potere 
modellizzante di Zarathustra, originando cid che i francesi definirebbero una syllepse 
intertextuelle di grande impatto epocale e, per questo, degna di essere ulteriormente 


440 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


approfondita. 

Con il capitolo “Arabian Nights, and the Bitter Beauty of the East”, il contraddittorio 
romanzo identitario di Ungaretti € sottoposto a scrutinio critico. Le varie maschere del 
poeta, dal nomade allo stesso Sceab, vengono legate alla complessa e ambigua relazione 
ungarettiana con il suo paese natale, |’Egitto: relazione densa di conflittualita, che si 
riflette nelle immagini che metonimicamente ad esso si riferiscono (il mare, il deserto, 
Alessandria). L’indagine sui caratteri contraddittori dell’ originario displacement non lascia 
sottovalutare la letterarieta con cui Ungaretti prontamente riveste il suo complesso “mito 
delle origini’, sottolineando, ad esempio, la fonte mallarmeana di Fonte di maggio (37). 
La descrizione del complesso rapporto di Ungaretti con le forze omologanti della 
tradizione e la seducente grammatica del nuovo procede nel terzo e nel quarto capitolo. II 
sistema delle fonti ungarettiane, nella trattazione di Suvini-Hand, si dissolve in una 
fenomenologia letteraria osmoticamente ricettiva sia delle avanguardie letterarie e 
figurative (Futurismo, cubismo, la pittura metafisica di De Chirico), sia del discorso 
poetico della tradizione del moderno (Baudelaire, Mallarmé, Rimbaud). Entro il sistema 
letterario italiano, Ungaretti viene fatto diventare il punto di fuga, nella doppia veste di 
radicale dissacratore e di pit autentico continuatore, della dialettica tradizione-innovazione 
che percorre, diacronicamente, la poesia italiana da Dante a Leopardi. II percorso storico- 
letterario cosi allestito confluisce nella sezione conclusiva del volume, “M’illumino / 
d’immenso: Religious Transcendence or Self-Apotheosis?”, dedicato alla discussione della 
problematica religiosita ungarettiana che, all’altezza dell’ A//egria, viene tradizionalmente 
individuata in liriche come Peso, Mattina, Trasfigurazione. La studiosa propone la 
possibilita di interpretare il sentimento di religiosita — embrionale ed empatica — che 
emerge da queste liriche come una sorta di “transcendental symbolism” (89 e passim) che 
risente, nella sua singolare articolazione, degli affini modelli di Baudelaire e Rimbaud. In 
questo senso, la conversione di Ungaretti al cattolicesimo del 1928 troverebbe conferma, e 
una adeguata cornice letteraria, nel corollario simbolista del ritrovato dialogo con il divino 
di Huysmans, del tardo Baudelaire e di Rimbaud (ma su quest’ultimo caso si potrebbe 
discutere). 

Al termine di questo avvincente affresco (nel quale ogni minimo tratto stilistico 
ungarettiano viene dissolto in una potenziale e incombente genealogia letteraria, la cui 
ipotetica latenza, nella maggior parte dei casi, lascia il posto, secondo I’autrice, a una 
consapevole suggestione) ci si chiede se avrebbe forse giovato, considerando che ci si 
rivolge primariamente a un pubblico di studenti universitari, esplicitare l’affascinante 
storia delle successive edizioni de L’allegria, anche per dare conto di un eventuale, se 
progressivo, aggiustamento ideologico a un clima sempre pili esplicitamente totalitario, e 
se la tormentata questione delle varianti aggiunga un’ulteriore evidenza documentaria e 
filologica, entro il sistema del libro ungarettiano, agli smottamenti ideologici e alle 
tensioni etiche del poeta. Per cui, se le diverse redazioni di Popo/o vengono interpretate, 
da un lato, come una traccia dell’influenza del surrealismo in un poeta sempre molto 
critico verso la ricerca estetica di Breton (49-50) e. dall’altro, come il sismografo della 
progressiva diluizione del nazionalismo ungarettiano (8-9), come conciliare tale prudenza 
con il fatto che solo con la sesta riedizione mondadoriana del °62 della raccolta scompare 
la dedica a Mussolini della lirica in questione? Maggior spazio avrebbe giovato alla 
discussione della giovanile produzione in francese, nel volume limitata al solo Roman 
cinéma (45). Offrire un contesto critico pit dettagliato alla sezione Derniers Jours e alla 
plaquette Guerre (confluite nella edizione Vallecchi del °19 ma poi espunte) avrebbe 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 441 


consolidato ulteriormente l’ipotesi secondo la quale l’ambiguita ideologica agisca 
attivamente, sia a livello stilistico sia tematico, nell’ A//egria considerata nei suoi diversi 
stadi compositivi. 

In tal modo, il complesso romanzo identitario del poeta troverebbe una solida 
conferma anche nel fatto che il displacement geografico contribui non solo a complessi 
autoritratti ma anche a uno sperimentalismo plurilingue, successivamente rifiutato. Alla 
luce di tale “rimossa” fase francese, anche la freddezza di Ungaretti verso il surrealismo 
troverebbe una sua flagrante smentita nella micro-serie Perfections du Noir (confluita nella 
sottosezione PLM 19/4-1919 di Derniers Jours), dedicata proprio ad André Breton. 

Le conclusioni a cui arriva il volume tendono a leggere “[the] psychological tug of 
war” che caratterizza L‘allegria come il risultato del dramma identitario di Ungaretti, per 
cui “the psychological confusion caused by this original ‘displacement’ [...] stimulated 
pro-war and proto-fascist feelings”. Tuttavia, € proprio l’innegabile esperienza della 
brutalita della guerra a stimolare “anti-war declarations, a coveting of child-like innocence, 
and a desire for a religious and Christian answer to the problems of existence” (97). Queste 
tension! ideologiche non tendono a una pacifica risoluzione ma anzi contribuiscono, come 
in ultima analisi reclama Mirage and Camouflage, a confondere i tratti  stilistici 
dell’ Al/egria con l’allestimento di un gioco degli specchi, la cui modernita non riesce del 
tutto ad occultare I’inclinazione verso quel rappel a /’ordre a cui Ungaretti rispondera con 
Sentimento del tempo. 

Daniela La Penna, University of Reading 


Angela M. Jeannet. Under the Radiant Sun and the Crescent Moon: Italo Calvino’s 
Storytelling. U of Toronto P, 2000. Pp. 197. 

Recent years have witnessed a resurgence in critical attention devoted to Calvino, due 
partly to Mondadori’s publishing of the complete works, the final volume of which is now 
available (Lettere 1940-1985, Milano, 2000). The timing of Jeannet’s study is thus 
fortunate. Her work is both thorough and original, despite the temporal lag between 
completion of her manuscript (1996) and actual publication. During this time significant 
new studies were published both in English and Italian which could have disadvantaged 
her argument; yet her book retains critical relevance. However, there are several notable 
exclusions from her bibliography, such as Martin McLaughlin’s /ta/o Calvino (Edinburgh 
UP, 1998), which might have overturned her opinion of Beno Weiss’s Understanding Italo 
Calvino (Columbia, SC, U of South Carolina P, 1993) as the “most complete treatment’ of 
Calvino in English (182). As for Italian monographs, although she mentions in a footnote 
Marco Belpoliti’s 1996 work L’occhio di Calvino (Torino, Einaudi, 1996), claiming that 
her analysis of the eye forms a discrete argument (61), she makes no bibliographical 
reference to other contemporary publications, such as Guido Bonsaver’s // mondo scritto 
(Torino, Tirrenia Stampatori, 1995). 

In contrast to Bonsaver’s focus on narrative. in terms of form and ideology, and the 
structure favoured by Silvio Perella’s Calvino (Roma, Laterza, 1999), which divides 
Calvino’s oeuvre chronologically into five decades, Jeannet takes an approach similar to 
that of McLaughlin: she is aiming for a comprehensivity accessible to an English-speaking 
audience. This goal is both justified and somewhat inevitable, as it was arguably this type 
of study that was so lacking in English criticism of Calvino. While both authors take a 


442 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


thematic approach, using a variety of texts as object for and exemplification of their 
analysis, the range of work referred to in each chapter differs significantly. McLaughlin’s 
chapters move chronologically through Calvino’s literary production, conveying an overall 
impression of progressive development while locating literary direction closely with 
individual works and differentiated periods in Calvino’s life. In contrast, Jeannet seems to 
cover (approximately) the span of Calvino’s literary career in each chapter, tracing 
recurrent thematic concerns throughout his work. The obvious disadvantage of this latter 
method is the necessitated fragmentation of each work. Portioned into thematic bands, 
works are dipped into several times with an evocative sensitivity, but with a slightly 
frustrating lack of detail. Yet Jeannet’s linking of life with work and thence to works 
yields a strong sense of multiple-stranded continuance, continuous thematic alternations, 
and polyvalency, which are signature Calvinian concerns. 

The purpose of this study appears from the outset to be that of contextualising 
Calvino, both within and beyond Italian literary traditions. Jeannet traces the influences on 
his work as well as the legacy his own writing leaves to us. How far that ‘us’ can be said to 
include the reader of Calvino outside Italy, to whom she seems to be addressing herself (at 
least primarily), is debatable. The citation chosen as epigraph to the Introduction gestures 
to a contextualisation of Calvino’s work in translation (both linguistic and geographical). 
In this extract from Eremita a Parigi (Milano, Mondadori, 1994), Calvino discusses the 
effect of works in translation, dislocated or broken off from their native country and 
culture, which arrive like unexplained ‘meteorites’ (xiii). Although potentially compelling, 
an emphasis on Italian works as perceived in their meteoritic condition may, if 
incompletely foregrounded, identified, and located, result in literary disembodiment. 

This rather unfortunate condition is exemplified in the Preface, a preliminary 
introduction of questionable helpfulness, which highlights how much may be lost in both 
interpretation and translation. ‘The City of Crossed Destinies, A Preface in the Form of a 
Story’ (vii-x), presents a dual pastiche: on a structural level, an overt allusion is made to 
the narrative approach Calvino explored in // castello dei destini incrociati (Torino, 
Einaudi, 1973); as regards content, a ‘historical’ pastiche singles out seven writers, 
‘Calvino’s mentors or contemporaries’ (xi), whose fragmented narrations tell of Florence 
under the shadow of war. The influence of some of these figures is then expounded in the 
main text of the book: for example, chapter 1, ‘Literature and Doubt,’ looks at the literary 
legacy bequeathed to Calvino by the work of Montale, Pavese. and Vittorini, focusing its 
attention almost exclusively on Montale’s influence. Thus the apparently balanced 
convergence of the voices in the Preface is undermined by the unequal analytical space 
subsequently allocated to each author. The attempted realism of the partially identified 
authors’ Florentine intersection sits rather strangely as frontispiece to a book which 
concludes that Calvino ‘chose to speak to our future’ (176). However, Jeannet’s 
observation that, for Calvino, style remained inherent both to life and literature (13) might 
explain the attempted fusing of literary voice and historical context as an exemplification 
of the underpinning ethos to Calvino’s work: despite his predilection for disguised voices, 
he held the practice of ‘Telling Stories’ (the title of chapter 4) to be vitally instrumental in 
furnishing us with a filtered, measured view of reality. 

The book is divided into six chapters, which analyse literary influences, the 
‘scrutatore’ figure as observing eye, the republishing of the Marcovaldo stories, myths and 
folk-tales, doubleness and the female character. Each chapter encompasses a varied 
selection of Calvino’s works spanning several decades, concluding on an open 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 443 


observation, and the majority of these observations refers to the Lezioni americane (Milan, 
Garzanti, 1988). There is an undeniable openness to a final work such as Calvino’s 
ironically incomplete set of literary aims for the new millennium (the final lecture, 
‘Cominciare e finire’ was unfinished), and although Jeannet avoids close engagement with 
these unvoiced lectures, she uses them to propel her understanding of Calvino’s thought 
towards a more global concept of literature. Having located Calvino strongly within Italian 
literary traditions, her open conclusions lead with appropriate ‘leggerezza’ beyond the 
close society sketched in her preface. Although Calvino’s demise was a sad loss, rather 
than the resulting void perceived by McLaughlin, Jeannet feels the resonance of new 
possibilities: a positive antithesis to the progression of her thought from the ‘radiant sun’ 
of Calvino’s birth to the pale moon-glow of his narratively under-privileged and critically 
under-explored female characters. 

Jeannet’s attention to the Calvinian female is both original and provocative. She 
charts the ‘bambina’ of the early short stories and her development into the Amazon, 
chaste, puzzling, cloven, female ‘other’. Beyond the requisite identification of the 
somewhat clichéd trope “woman as city’, Jeannet posits the notion of woman as style, and 
ultimately as language. Although she sees the final embodiment of the Calvinian woman 
as a more equal, tangible, and carnivorous partner (Sotto il solo giaguaro, Garzanti, 1986), 
the overreaching pervasive shadow of the lunar female appears the stronger and the more 
constant (again, highly ironic). This interpretation echoes the conclusions of Bonsaver in // 
mondo scritto, one of the rare examples of a serious critical analysis of what he calls 
‘ombra del feminino’ (Bonsaver, 231). He identifies the female character as elusive to 
the point of phantasmic non-existence. His suggestion that the feminine might constitute a 
‘terzo incommodo’ to the linked duality of man and world (245) adds a problematic 
dimension. Jeannet too was sensitive to the relation of translucent woman to this physical 
dialectic, which she solves, compellingly, with the assertion that the absence of the female 
evokes a desire for style and language that might be ‘totally possessed and completely 
transparent’ (176). 

To return to literary influences on Calvino, Jeannet grants an almost unprecedented 
importance to Montale. With the exception of the classical philosophers to whom Calvino 
alludes in the Lezioni americane, the principal authors she cites are Italian, a significant 
contrast to McLaughlin’s evoking of Poe, Conrad, and Borges. In Jeannet’s view, Montale, 
as dryly disengaged lyricist, hovers above and within Calvino’s language, marking not 
only the subtle rhythmic complexity of his prose, but also his style of authorial perception: 
she traces the ‘scrutatore’ back to Montale’s ‘sguardo’ in Ossi di seppia (Milano, 
Mondadori, 1927). Her initial and final analyses seem characterised by her interest in the 
ebb and flow of influence and alternating motifs. This sense of alternation is at odds with 
her earlier essay, ‘Cornerstones, Milestones and Headstones’ (Calvino Revisited, Ottawa, 
Dovehouse Editions, 1989, 207-25), in which she explores the theme of cumulative 
literary watersheds in Calvino’s writing. She posits the collection of essays Una pietra 
sopra (Torino, Einaudi, 1980) as a self-selected gamut of “key’ moments, like a winding 
stairway of progression. A similar approach can be discerned in the current publication 
only in chapters 3 and 4, which focus on the critically neglected Marcovaldo cycle and 
Calvino’s practices as auto-editore, and the progressive developments in Calvino’s 
storytelling techniques respectively. 

Interestingly, the third chapter is based on a series of earlier essays (see 94n1), which 
denotes a development in Jeannet’s thought. In this chapter she identifies the ghostly 


444 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


presence of the pastoral idyll as deliberately signalled by the initial publication as ‘Gli 
idilli difficili’ (7 racconti, Einaudi, 1958). This presence is modified in the 1963 re-writing 
as it takes on a historical dimension and a growing literary self-awareness, culminating in 
the subsumption of Marcovaldo’s ‘I/eye’ into that of the narrator (92). Jeannet claims that 
the alteration in scope from a representation of the ‘search for idyllic experience, obstacle, 
disappointment’ (78) to a more ironic portrayal of ‘delusion and actuality’ represents the 
end of a literary era which offered comfort through ideological construct. The second 
collection, Marcovaldo, ovvero le stagioni in citta (Einaudi, 1963) recognises the 
definitive alteration in postwar consciousness, and marks, Jeannet argues, a crucial and 
far-reaching change in Calvino’s work. 

‘Telling Stories’ follows structural experimentation through from Se una_ notte 
(Einaudi, 1979) to Palomar (Einaudi, 1983), revealing the slippage from ‘pedagogical to 
incantatory’ (121) in the author’s tone, concluding that his final work labels him a 
forward-looking pedagogue. The tonal paradox of didact and seer is caught in her final 
chapter, which acknowledges ‘Calvino’s ability to seduce even those who are aware of the 
[...] conservative aspects of his enterprise’ (176). Given Calvino’s predilection for 
reversibility, it is interesting, and perhaps inevitable, that Jeannet’s study should include a 
forward- and a backward-looking analysis, as well as detecting both progressive and 
cyclical rhythms in his work. Her own reactions to his work are provoking in their variety, 
leaving the way tantalisingly open for the future, as did the Lezioni americane. Although 
the intentions set out by the preface remain at odds with the body of her text, Jeannet’s 
book is a useful complement to McLaughlin’s publication, bringing under-researched 
works to the fore, and broadening access to Calvino’s oeuvre. 

Charlotte Ross, University of Warwick 


Enzo Leopardi. L’inganno della Rosa . The Deception of the Rosa. Translated and 
introduced by Gareth McCutchan. Market Harborough: Troubador, 1999. Pp. ix + 
75. 

Speculating about the fate of Italian poetry in the near future, Alfonso Berardinelli, a critic 
well-known for his sharp and provocative pronouncements, recently remarked that “la 
poesia era diventata nel giro di alcuni anni un genere letterario screditato, un’arte senza 
pubblico, un settore librario quasi invisibile. Era questa invisibilita a farla sembrare eterna, 
immortale come i fantasmi.” (“La casa della poesia era piena di ospiti” in Alfonso 
Berardinelli, Cactus, 2001). Berardinelli’s mocking tone scarcely hides his worries about 
an age in which poetry, abandoned by the public eye, has ceased to be the object of fervent 
debates and continuous controversies. Undoubtedly, this is not the time for impassioned 
disputes about the absolute validity of exclusive poetic standards. More than other literary 
genres, poetry has felt the vehement impact of the recent crises of the canon, which 
affected not only the attitudes of readers and critics, but also altered the expectations and 
concerns of many poets. According to Remo Ceserani, Romano Luperini, and numerous 
other scholars interested in the ongoing debates about the canon, the crisis of traditional 
literary historiography in Italy has not yet been successfully overcome. Unlike in the 
United States, there have been few attempts to affirm or challenge the possibility of 
alternative canons. Instead of stimulating the search for new critical standards and literary 
points of reference, the crisis has frequently resulted in a stifling atmosphere of confusion 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 445 


and general scepticism. 

Reading L 'inganno della Rosa, a posthumous collection of Enzo Leopardi’s poems, 
translated and introduced by Garrett McCutchan, one feels the void left by the collapse of 
the canon. Born in 1922, Enzo Leopardi has apparently little in common with the 
generation of young poets currently struggling for recognition. His distinguished career as 
an art critic and author of several collections of poetry reaches back to the early 1960s, 
which saw the publication of his Assedio alla ragione. Leopardi is not a newcomer. And 
yet, reading this recent collection, one encounters a poetic voice that has apparently little 
in common with the trends and conventions of the past decades. From its starting pages 
L’inganno della Rosa presents itself as a search for a past harmony, as an ideal return to 
tradition. Most of the thirty-two poems evoke seemingly timeless figures of love and faith, 
loss and exile, which are explored without scepticism or irony. Serious and mostly 
pessimistic in tone, Leopardi’s poems are frequently dominated by natural imagery. The 
rare descriptions of human environments are emphatically nostalgic, embracing 
indiscriminately a past which reaches from the early years of the century described in the 
opening poem, “Una fotografia” (2), to the mythical vision of the Middle Ages in “Il 
cavaliere di legno” (10). A violent contrast is provided by “Beceri” (4), the only poem in 
the collection explicitly referring to the present, which stands out because of its aggressive, 
cynical, and almost apocalyptic tone: “Che strazio in televisione, i beceri pontificano su 
tutto” (4). Leopardi’s diffidence towards the present, which he either ignores or condemns, 
appears evident not only from the contents of his poems, but also from his choice of a 
descriptive, deliberately neutral, and unspectacular language. Despite the variety of 
different themes and concerns treated, L'inganno della Rosa maintains a stylistic 
uniformity based on a middle poetic register, a series of well-established literary keywords 
used in an otherwise plain, almost circumstantial language. Leopardi clearly wishes to 
keep equally distant from the explosive, often subversive strength of much recent dialect 
poetry and from the playful, sometimes mildly ironic intertextuality characteristic of 
certain branches of contemporary Italian poetry (1 am thinking primarily of Valerio 
Magrelli). L ‘inganno della Rosa appeals to an ideally romantic conception of poetry as a 
bearer of timeless, emotional truth, stating hence a point of view that is clearly 
incompatible with the ludic spirit of Postmodernism. Forgetting Gertrude Stein and 
Umberto Eco (and perhaps even Shakespeare), the deceitful rose turns, thanks to Leopardi, 
once again into a veritable symbol of love and beauty. The poet’s conservatism expresses 
itself not in a deliberate revisiting of the classics, but rather through a creative oblivion in 
which the canon is forgotten, and poetry is supposedly free to give genuine expression to 
the reality of the poet’s feelings. 

Leopardi’s desire to restore poetic language as an effective means of direct emotive 
expression bears its most felicitous results in the shorter poems collected in the first part of 
L'inganno della Rosa. While some of them contain the concise allegorical force of a haiku 
— “L’albero” (14), “Il tonfo” (22), and “Formiche” (40) — others recall the limpid and 
emotionally rich language of the cantautori of the sixties and seventies (“Una fotografia,” 
“Due padri,” and “Pigrizia”). It is with regard to these short poems that one can most fully 
appreciate the quality of Garrett McCutchan’s translation, which carefully respects the 
syntax and style of the Italian original while at the same time presenting its own stylistic 
elegance. McCutchan, who combines the qualities of a skilful translator with great 
experience as a writer, arranger, and performer of songs, renders the meaning of 
Leopardi’s words effectively in a translation which succeeds in being both attentive and 


446 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


imaginative. McCutchan’s efforts are supported by the nature of the Italian originals, 
which present no insurmountable obstacles to the translator. The open metric structure and 
the mostly common vocabulary of Leopardi’s texts are relatively easily captured in the 
English translation, and the absence of specific cultural references or dialect terms further 
facilitates the work of the translator. McCutchan’s English version of Leopardi’s poems 
takes full advantage of these facts. Following the original often word by word, the 
translation succeeds in conveying not only the sense of the Italian text, but even its 
syntactic peculiarities. For instance, the first lines of “Una fotografia” (“Una fotografia dei 
primi anni / di questo secolo: mia madre cosi / giovane e carina. II vestito nuovo / i capelli, 
lo sguardo, si vede ch’era / serena, forse felice” 2) are translated as follows: “A 
photograph from early / in the century: my mother so / young, so sweet, her outfit new / 
her hair, her look, all show that she was / serene, maybe happy” (3). Aiming to preserve 
the clarity and simplicity of Leopardi’s style, McCutchan frequently translates relatively 
uncommon Italian words with more frequent English ones (for instance, “Sul relitto la 
fascia stilla supremo rosso / la vena aperta sfavil/la luminosa™; “On the wound the bandage 
drips supreme red / the open vein is sparkling luminous” 44-45) or rules out ambiguities in 
his translations (“Agosto, cimitero di stelle”; “August, starlit cemetery” 8-9). As a result, 
the translations appear sometimes more stylistically uniform and straightforward than 
Leopardi’s verse. In particular, the translations of the final poems of the collection, longer 
and more intricate than their counterparts in the first section, do not always fully capture 
the associations evoked by the original. Nevertheless, McCutchan’s translations show a 
great sensitivity and a remarkable affinity with Leopardi’s ideas and concerns. This 
affinity is evident also in the introduction to the volume in which McCutchan briefly 
discusses eleven of the thirty-two poems of the collection. Instead of introducing the 
cultural context in which Leopardi’s works originate or analysing them critically, 
McCutchan decides to comment on the texts “that communicated most directly to me 
simply as reader” (vii). The comments that follow combine personal impressions, 
speculative thoughts about the issues treated by Leopardi, some general comments on the 
present state of poetry, and a few inspired but perhaps slightly eclectic references to 
cultural landmarks, such as Italo Calvino, Giuseppe Ungaretti, Lee Harvey Oswald, and 
Larry King. McCutchan is evidently more interested in experiencing and capturing the 
emotions expressed in Leopardi’s poetry than in tracing down sources and cultural 
influences. Among the ruins of the canon the grave meditations of the Sicilian poet and the 
light-hearted remarks of his translator resound freely. 

Florian Mussgnug, Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa 


Esperienze letterarie 25: 3-4 (luglio-dicembre 2000). Direttore Marco Santoro. Pisa: 
Istituti poligrafici internazionali. Pp. 381 

La rivista Esperienze letterarie si € impegnata, nel solco della sua tradizione, a cogliere 
l’occasione del cinquantenario dalla scomparsa di Cesare Pavese, con un fasciolo doppio, 
per promuovere un’iniziativa volta ad offrire un qualificato contributo sull’opera, sulla 
figura e sulla fortuna dello scrittore piemontese. Vi compaiono saggi di studiosi eminenti, 
che in diverse occasioni hanno gia recato un contributo quanto mai prezioso e a tutti noto 
sullo scrittore delle Langhe. Nell’introduzione, Marco Santoro, a cinquanta anni dalla 
tragica dipartita di Pavese, dedica questo numero doppio al letterato che si suicidd, il 26 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 447 


agosto del 1950, in una stanza dell’hotel Roma, a Torino. Il Santoro tratteggia con 
maestria il profilo de! romanziere, poeta, saggista, animatore culturale e editore segnando 
le tappe fondamentali della figura di Pavese nel dibattito culturale italiano e la sua 
particolare fortuna negli anni °60-’70. 

Dopo I’intervento iniziale, il contributo all’analisi di aspetti diversi della produzione e 
della fortuna pavesiana si articola in dodici saggi ripartiti in due sezioni ben distinte. Nella 
prima Giorgio Barberi Squarotti, Carmine Di Biase, Elio Gioanola, Marziano 
Guglielminetti e Silvia Savioli, Giuditta Isotti-Rosowky, Anco Marzio Mutterle, Antonio 
Sichera e Gianni Venturi indagano con la loro consueta sensibilita, supportata da una 
profonda esperienza, maturata con numerosi studi su Pavese, molteplici approdi della 
personalita dello scrittore: da Feria d'agosto ai Dialoghi con Leuco, da Lavorare stanca a 
Il carcere, da Tre donne sole a La casa in collina, da Il mestiere di vivere al carteggio 
inedito, assai significativo, che s’aggiunge al gia imponente epistolario pavesiano, edito da 
Einaudi, con Mario Bonfantini. Nella seconda parte, Francesca Billiani (Gran Breatagna e 
Irlanda), Piero Dal Bon (Spagna), Pierre Laroche (Francia) e Mark Pietralunga (Stati 
Uniti) offrono puntuali e alquanto documentati aggiornamenti sullo sviluppo della critica e 
delle modalita e caratteristiche di ricezione dello scrittore all’estero. 

Nel saggio di Barberi Squarotti, “I! ragazzo e l’avventura: Feria d'agosto” (7-21), 
l’autore afferma come nel codice simbolico dello stile pavesiano, La vigna — cui é 
dedicata la terza parte di Feria d’agosto — non si concentra in una definita realta 
geografica, come le Langhe o ‘il Monferrato, ma, piuttosto, come luogo privilegiato 
dell’immaginario, energicamente collocato sotto il segno di Dioniso. Tra le fonti 
dell’intera operazione, sottolinea lo Squarotti, va senz’altro annoverato il D’Annunzio 
dell’A/cyone, non trascurando, tuttavia, echi ed accenti pascoliani. Di Biase, ne 
“L’inconsolabile Orfeo in Pavese” (23-37), riscontra nel piu sigificativo, tra Dialoghi con 
Leuco, “L’inconsolabile”, l’unione del mito di Orfeo con le ragioni di fondo dell’uomo e 
del poeta Pavese, in rapporto anche a // mestiere di vivere, vero e porprio Zibaldone del 
Novecento. Alla luce del concetto di realta simbolica, sempre presente nell’opera e nei 
gesti quotidiani dello scrittore, il gesto finale di morte che chiude il diario, ma anche 
l’esistenza, risponde simbolicamente al gesto stesso del poeta tracio, che discende nel 
regno dell’ombra, del nulla assoluto, cui tutto appare destinato. 

Gioanola, in “Feria d'agosto: alle origini della ‘prima volta’” (39-59), prende in 
considerazione il ruolo della svolta rappresentata, nell’opera pavesiana, da Feria d ‘agosto, 
in cui s’assiste alla formulazione teorica e all’applicazione pratica, a livello lirico- 
narrativo, della cosiddetta poetica del mito, secondo la quale la campagna, da luogo 
selvaggio e primitivo, diventa vivaio della feconda simbologia mitico-infantile. 
Guglielminetti e Savioli, in “Un carteggio inedito tra Cesare Pavese e Mario Bonfantini” 
(61-85), scoprono un carteggio sino ad oggi sconosciuto che illustra l’amicizia ma 
soprattutto il rapporto professionale tra il Pavese editore-traduttore e il Bonfantini 
traduttore, fra il 1948 e il 1950. Lo scambio epistolare riguarda, principalmente, il lavoro 
di traduzione che Mario Bonfantini svolse per la celebre collana einaudiana dei Millenni e 
che porto alla pubblicazione del Dictionnaire di Voltaire, delle Mémoires di Saint-Simon e 
di Gargantua et Pantagruel di Rabelais. 

Nello studio di Giuditta Isotti-Rosowsky, “Pavese: il romanzo deludente” (87-101), 
s’indagano le origini e le ragioni del cosiddetto romanzo deludente auspicato da Sartre a 
partire dal 1948. Pavese, da parte sua, svolgeva da molti anni una sua propria ricerca 
letteraria che puntava a fare del presente e della sua incompiutezza il centro idologico e 


448 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


politico della scrittura. II suo progetto consisteva, fondamentalmente, nel fondare la 
coerenza romanzesca su situazioni stilistiche che alla casualita dell’intreccio e alla mimesi 
realistica sostituissero una storia tematico e la tecnica obliqua dell’ indirection. In questa 
prospettiva sono esaminati // compagno, La casa in collina, La luna e i falo e Tre donne 
sole. 

Il sesto saggio, “Una forma virtuale di Lavorare stanca™ (102-20) di Mutterle, 
ricostrusice |’identita dell’edizione di Lavorare stanca, che Pavese aveva destinato alla 
stampa nel 1935, prima dell’arresto e del successivo confino presso Brancaleone Calabro. 
Rispetto all’edizione rimaneggiata e censurata, che verra pubblicata nel 1936, questa 
edizione manifesta considerevoli discrepanze e noievoli diversita, rispetto alla prima, tra 
cui una spiccata attenzione alle problematiche del selvaggio e del mostruoso. 

La tesi di fondo del lavoro di Antonio Sichera, “Pavese nei dintorni di Joyce: le due 
stagioni del Carcere” (121-52), é che l’elaborazione del romanzo d’esordio da parte di 
Pavese sia legata alla sua traduzione del Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man di Joyce, 
uscita per Frassinelli nel 1934 (con il titolo cambiato dallo stesso Pavese: Dedalus). II 
punto di convergenza tra i due scrittori si riscontra, anzitutto, a livello di scrittura asciutta e 
reiterativa, nell’adozione, pure, di un comune modello narrativo. Un’attentissima analisi 
pone, poi, in luce il dialogo tra le due opere anche a livello lessicale e tematico. 

Il saggio di Gianni Venturi, “Letteratura e vita per ricordare Cesare Pavese (ed Elio 
Vittorini)” (153-61), chiude, quale suggello ideale, la prima sezione ed é incentrato sulla 
lettura che oggi, nel nuovo millennio, si puo dare dell’esperienza artistico-umana — le due 
sfere non sono scindibili in Pavese — dello scrittore. Dopo un intenso periodo di letture 
legate alla mescolanza di vita e letteratura da parte, soprattutto, di critic! come Davide 
Lajolo e di Lorenzo Mondo, il silenzio che ha avvolto |’opera omnia pavesiana si spiega 
come un tentativo di recuperare, a distanza di anni, |’esperienza pil autentica di un autore 
che ha voluto, anche nel gesto estremo del suicidio, risolvere sempre l’esistenza nella 
letteratura. 

Billiani, “Cesare Pavese in Gran Bretagna: 1949-2000” (163-80), apre la seconda 
parte di studi dedicata alla fruizione dello scrittore all’estero. La Billiani ci informa che le 
opere di Pavese sono state tradotte oltremanica fin dai primi anni Cinquanta, incontrando 
ben presto un notevole successo di pubblico che, proseguito durante tutti gli anni Sessanta, 
é andato, via via, languendo nel corso di quest’ultimo ventennio. Dal Bon, “Sulla fortuna 
di Pavese in Spagna” (181-215), afferma che Pavese ha incontrato in Spagna, lungo la 
meta del secolo scorso, una prolungata accoglienza, ora generalizzata e intensa ora piu 
puntiforme e occasionale, sempre comunque molto viva. II contesto storico nel quale per la 
prima volta irrompe il nome di Pavese é quello della Spagna degli anni Cinquanta. 

Secondo Laroche, “La réception de Pavese en France” (217-32), Pavese € conosciuto 
in Francia, per lo pit dopo la morte, specialmente in occasione della traduzione delle sue 
opere. Lo sguardo della critica, a parte una doverosa ricognizione tematica, verte 
soprattutto sulla personalita dell’autore. Gli studi di Dominique Fernandez sono 
all’insegna della psicocritica. In seguito, limpostazione lacaniana di Philippe Renard e le 
analisi di Giuditta Isotti-Rosowsky hanno consentito progressivamente l’avvio a nuovi 
approcci critici all’opera pavesiana. 

La rassegna di Pietralunga, “La fortuna di Cesare Pavese negli Stati Uniti (dal 1990 al 
presente)” (233-46), riporta tutti gli studi su Pavese negli Stati Uniti dal 1990 ad oggi. | 
dieci anni sono caratterizzati da un presenza regolare di interventi critici su Pavese in 
forma di articoli, quasi tutti apparsi in riviste specialistiche nordamericane. Negli ultimi 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 449 


anni i critici americani hanno approfondito il discorso sulla scrittura dell’autore e, di 
conseguenza, si é delineata nei loro scritti una decisa tendenza a liberarsi da percezioni 


distorte — si veda, in merito, la politicizzazione di Pavese operata dalla sinistra 
sessantottina: operazione per nulla oggettiva, visto che Pavese affermd sempre di non 
capire nulla di politica — che distolgono il lettore da una conoscenza autentica del 


letterato nel mestiere di vivere. 
Sergio Ferrarese, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


Fabio De Agostini. La deriva di Paolo K. Roma: Arlem Editore, 2000. Pp. v + 173. 

Si € cominciato a parlare di una “nuova” narrativa italiana a partire dagli anni 80. 
L’etichetta critica € comunque illusoria in quanto sembra suggerire un movimento 
letterario con comuni registri. Entro il contesto storico in cui opera la giovane generazione 
di narratori sono individuabili almeno due filoni che consentono una distinzione 
abbastanza coerente: il primo é quello che investe la forma dell’espressione e tenta di 
evadere il neosperimentalismo avanguardista; i] secondo appartiene al piano tematico ed 
aspira a superare lo schematismo realistico. Del rinnovato interesse per il romanzo, 
promosso dal successo internazionale di // nome della rosa (1980) di Umberto Eco e 
dall’exp/oit a sorpresa di Gesualdo Bufalino con Diceria dell'untore (1981), attestano, per 
suggerire qualche nome, le esperienze letterarie di Paolo Volponi, Luigi Malerba, Giorgio 
Manganelli, Gianni Celati e Antonio Tabucchi, autori che hanno dato al genre una 
fisionomia distintiva che rompe con i canoni del passato. 

Fabio De Agostini, formatosi come scrittore, regista e autore teatrale negli anni 
inquietanti del dopoguerra, nella suggestione del clima culturale e ideologico di Visconti, 
Pandoifi, Zavattini e Lizzani, comincia all’inizio degli anni °70 con un romanzo, Smolny 
(1972), una rivisitazione critica della Rivoluzione d’ottobre che rispecchia le ambiguita 
della rivolta studentesca sessantottina. II registro linguistico-stilistico, tra documento e 
iconografia fantastica, ha qui la sua genesi in funzione eminentemente didascalica; sara 
ripreso successivamente in // breve passo (1985) e / gattini ciechi (1992). L’uno narra di 
una famiglia italo-ticinese coinvolta nelle vicende politiche del periodo bellico (per il loro 
carattere di esemplarita richiamano le esperienze proprie dell’autore che vive tra la 
Svizzera e Roma); |’altro si rifa alla nota frase di Stalin e analizza una crisi individuale nel 
quadro storico del 1944-47. De Agostini appartiene alla schiera dei narratori che mirano 
alla reinvenzione ora ironica ora quasi drammatica del linguaggio, testimoniando al 
contempo i problemi storico-sociali d’una Italia codificata nel reale. Sa esprimere il suo 
messaggio con una scelta linguistica composita e attenta. Due elementi strutturali, 
Oggettivita e brevita, sostengono i processi narrativi: la scrittura diventa lo strumento che 
investiga la realta storica e autobiografica dell’uomo. De Agostini da un lato accentuera, 
dopo il 1980, un modo di narrare sospeso tra realta e sogno, che inquadra personaggi e 
avvenimenti in una dimensione temporale elusiva; dall’altro lato continuera la 
contestazione sociale. Al livello costruttivo e dominante, il tema che emerge € quello del 
viaggio, vissuto, virtuale, o ricordato in frammenti della memoria. 

Nell’ultimo romanzo, La deriva di Paolo K. (candidato al Premio Viareggio), Fabio De 
Agostini indaga sulle ragioni per cui un intelletto empirico di alto livello aziendale finisce 
coll’abdicare alla sua funzione costitutiva a favore di un viaggio virtuale. Ricostruisce le 
esperienze personali del protagonista con una deformazione ironica, una frantumazione 


450 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


temporale, in una lingua che esalta l’alternarsi dei passaggi di percezione nella sfera 
psichica. Si opera una riduzione fenomenologica che comprende la sospensione della 
visione empiristica del mondo: “[...] puo succedere che il concretissimo e razionale dottor 
Paolo Kepiski, specialista a trasformare in numeri la realta, e viceversa, diventi anche lui 
almeno un po’ immaginario” (106). Un uomo di carriera, intelligente e accorto, Paolo K. si 
specializza nel calcolo aziendale. Quando si accorge di andare alla deriva, di 
“quell’evadere dentro, quell’implodere portando poi nella realta quotidiana della vita e 
della professione certe fantasie” (106), e di doversi confrontare con la propria identita 
profonda, il protagonista passa da un banale viaggio in treno a una ricostruzione di tragitti 
vissuti come eventi straordinari tra realta e memoria. Lo porteranno al coinvolgimento in 
un “drammatico imprevisto”, da improbabile indiziato nel presunto assassinio di una 
compagna di vettura, la professoressa Irene Campos. A prima vista sembra possibile 
ascrivere il libro al romanzo giallo. Ma questo romanzo, giallo non é. Il commissario 
Davos, un patito dell’informatica, elimina subito ogni sospetto sul dottor Kepiski 
dichiarando I’accaduto “un suicidio simulato”. De Agostini si serve di un incipit da 
romanzo giallo per strutturare la sua sperimentazione tematica. A questo punto le 
possibilita del viaggio si costruiscono sulla base di fuggevoli ricordi d’infanzia, viaggi 
virtuali in oriente, crisi di sonnolenza, parentesi di sogni ad occhi aperti, un fantomatico 
divorzio con la moglie Elena, la morte di Lorenzo, uno zio sciamano (forse anche padre, 
reo di inventivita erotica). Infine l’abbandono della deriva, col ritorno integrale alla vita di 
prima: “Quella sera Paolo Kepiski si prepara a lavorare al computer, per recuperare il 
gusto dell’antico mestiere, che gli era diventato estraneo [...]. E pronto davanti al 
computer. Ma si ferma, pensa: € questa la mia vita? Poi si da uno schiaffo e si mette a 
cliccare. A lungo, accanitamente. Un trucco per tenere lontani gli incubi del sonno. Per 
quanto possibile” (170-71). L’iter del viaggiatore-osservatore affianca al proprio io 
empirico un io indefinito e stupefacente. 

Paolo K. € un individuo destinato a ritrovarsi in una zona liminale che abroga ogni 
distinzione tra il reale e il possibile; egli scivola dalla normalita all’alienante 
espropriazione di un equilibrio (in)stabile: la deriva stravolge la realta ma é anche uno 
stato in cui si pud vedere oltre le apparenze del contingente. Ma un senso demarcante ha in 
questo caso Il’ambiente che viene descritto: qui il protagonista é immerso nella sua reale 
esistenza di uomo sociale, cosi il quadro che ci delinea del mondo contemporaneo assurge 
alla funzione di cronaca virtuale: “Perché oggi la plebe non esiste, non deve esistere mai 
piu, almeno nel nostro mondo occidentale. Non serve pili a nessuno [...] la civilta ha piu 
che mai bisogno, oggi, di borghesi--medi, eventualmente grandi, necessariamente piccoli, 
ceti medi ben centimetrati, terziari perfettamente integrati nel processo di sviluppo 
industrial-bancario computerizzato. Informati, disponibili, dinamici, senza dimora fissa, 
eccetera. Al peggio, una plebe riformista sbiancata in lavatrice” (4). 

Sul piano delle forme del contenuto, il romanzo presenta una realta vista dal punto di 
vista deformante di un personaggio nevrotico, monologante, che ha per costante la forza 
empirica dell’osservazione esplorativa; il personaggio é il portatore primario della 
deformazione, e quindi il principio organizzatore del romanzo stesso: Paolo K. rappresenta 
la prospettiva attraverso cui si pud informare un reale diverso. Coi suoi paradossi 
fantasiosi di una civilta fagocitante asservita all’informatica, porta il lettore a riflettere sul 
processo di straniamento tecnologico che ci condiziona tutti, quella “prigione geometrica 
dove si snoda la [nostra] esistenza” (56). Il protagonista é al contempo se stesso e il suo 
doppio, da qui la presenza di un linguaggio mentale che utilizza associazioni e divagazioni 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 451 


psicoanalitiche di matrice freudiana. I] motivo del viaggio, gia presente nei primi romanzi 
di Fabio De Agostini (basti citare il viaggiatore naufrago de // breve passo), si enuncia 
attraverso topoi di navigazione, un abbandonarsi al mare della vita per mancanza di 
direzione: “[...] € come procedere nella nebbia senza bussola, e la deriva porta lontano, non 
si sa dove” (108). La deviazione é verso il profondo della propria identita costitutiva, ma il 
vagare di Paolo K. in universi alternativi non € atto e percorso di iniziazione. 

Quello che interessa nel romanzo é il gioco dei registri inventivi del viaggio in mondi 
possibili. All’inizio le riflessioni del protagonista suggeriscono che siamo di fronte ad un 
tentativo di recupero di memorie represse (complesso edipico, rivalita fra fratelli, etc.). Nel 
corso del romanzo diventa chiaro, tuttavia, che “la deriva” é da classificarsi nella categoria 
del viaggio come pretesto per una critica ai valori sociali e personali. Per Paolo K., il 
viaggio é l’opportunita per deviare dal percorso scelto e riflettere; ed ecco il viaggio tra 
fantasmi che ha incontrato e negato, tra soluzioni fallite sfociate nel limbo della rimozione. 
Anziché concludersi con una meta raggiunta, questo viaggio lascia domande in sospeso: 
col reinserimento aziendale, sociale e familiare il protagonista sarebbe alla fine in 
situazione affine a quella individuata dall’inizio. Il doppio sparisce. 

La stessa traiettoria fisica del viaggio é un atto catalizzatore per la riflessione. Le 
attivita professionali che controllano razionalmente l’esistenza concreta del revisore 
finanziario aziendale, un navigare accanito in un mare di cifre, vengono sospese ed egli € 
cosi in grado di distanziarsi dalla sua stessa situazione. Questa liberazione dai compiti che 
giornalmente lo occupano gli consente di calarsi in una situazione di metamorfosi 
(l’intestazione metaforica del libro é da // processo di Kafka) e di strutturare il tempo 
secondo una dimensione memoriale a incastro. Portato di fronte alle ultime scelte, Paolo 
K. scrivera delirante la storia della crisi di un revisore dei conti, il Progetto Amoressia, una 
citazione dell’operazione scrittoria in quanto titolo dell’?omonimo romanzo (1998) di De 
Agostini. II lettore diviene un elemento portante nella produzione dei significati. 

In La deriva di Paolo K. si affronta |’arduo problema della crisi dell’individuo, un 
fissare l’occhio su se stessi attraverso un obiettivo che rispecchia |’aspirazione al 
rinnovamento nell’ assoluta solitudine. Si mettono in dubbio le assunzioni che governano la 
nostra realta sociale e storica, con in mente il futuro dei “gattini ciechi”, dei seguaci 
dell’utopia dopo il momento epico della lotta. Ne risulta un mondo privo di sicurezze, pur 
nella concretezza della sua fisionomia. La prosa di De Agostini procede su registri 
definibili per un tendenziale nitore schematico; si attua in una lingua descrittiva, 
plurifocale. Nella dimensione della deriva, Paolo K. vive in una sensazione di 
improbabilita, in una sospensione vagamente angosciata che dilata le cose e si fissa sulla 
fluttuazione logica del tempo: € posto in una situazione-limite dove la coscienza si 
confonde con la materia, dove la realta empirica e ipotesi esistenziali, gli eventi e 
l’immaginazione possono confondersi. La situazione del protagonista € quella in cui si 
espone, e€ riassume insieme, il dramma dell’uomo d’oggi. 

Gaetana Marrone, Princeton University 


Gloria Italiano. Parole A buon rendere: ovvero l’invasione dei termini anglo-italiani. 
Firenze: Cadmo, 1999. Pp. 140. 

This volume contains a wealth of information about the ever-changing nature of the Italian 
language. Indeed, Parole a buon rendere is a virtual treasure trove of Anglicisms recently 


452 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


infused into /‘italica favella. The author’s stated aim is to identify a representative group 
of Anglicisms that have entered the Italian language over the past fifty years, and thereby 
to enhance the reader’s understanding of the social, linguistic and psychological factors 
that come into play when two languages (Italian and English, in this case) come into 
contact with each other, when words from one language are subsequently absorbed into the 
other or, conversely, rejected by it. 

The current flood of Anglicisms being soaked up by Italian speakers began, we are 
not surprised to discover, in the late stages of the Second World War and in its immediate 
aftermath, with the arrival of the invading American troops. In subsequent decades, 
English has continued to make a strong impact in Italy (and throughout Europe and the rest 
of the world) by way of radio, film and television, and through the influence of powerful 
Anglo-American and multi-national corporations, whose products the Italians have been 
more than happy to purchase. One factor important in the rapid absorption of English 
stranierismi into Italian was a desire on the part of the Italians, lately defeated in war, to 
identify with the peoples who conquered them, i.e., the British and the Americans, through 
the adoption of their language. The author informs us that the desire to disassociate oneself 
from defeat and to associate oneself with victory always exerts a powerful force on the 
flow of words and phrases from one language to another. This phenomenon had occurred, 
for example, with the adoption of Latin throughout the vast Roman Empire of ancient 
times, and with French at the time of the Norman invasion of England. Gloria Italiano 
contends that in the second half of the twentieth century this process has occurred in Italy 
with English. 

In the author’s view, the readiness with which English was absorbed into /a bella 
lingua was hastened also by the fact that, during the Fascist period that preceded the war, 
Mussolini, out of concern for the potentially disruptive political ideas reaching Italians 
through English loan words, had used legal means to abolish the public use of stranierismi. 
As a result of this effort before the war to repress linguistic evolution, after the war, Gloria 
Italiano writes, “la lingua italiana ha reagito come una creature liberata dalle briglie legali” 
(3). 

In the post-war period and up to the present time, Italians have absorbed Anglicisms 
in a variety of ways: directly (e.g., lo shopping, il summit), in hybridized form (e.g., 
Euromanager, Ferrari day), with meanings unrelated to that of the loan word (e.g., footing, 
slip), and through direct translation into the receiving language (e.g., politicamente 
corretta, nocciolo duro). Indeed, this form of linguistic Anglophilism, which began in Italy 
in the eighteenth century, has now reached epidemic proportions. What are the effects of 
this flood of English loan words upon Italian? In Gloria Italiano’s view, the real danger is 
that the receiving language runs the risk of undergoing profoundly alienating cultural 
modifications at the level of ideas, goals, aspirations, and values: “L’invasione di campo di 
idee di disturbo al sottofondo possono produrre desideri e sogni che potremmo denominare 
snaturati o alienanti per una societa impreparata nel suo insieme” (17). 

In contemporary Italy, the use of Anglicisms reflects the strong prestige value that 
English loan words carry. This phenomenon reinforces the Sapir-Wharf hypothesis that 
language determines cultural models. Repeated use in Italian of an Anglicism promotes the 
creation of neologisms based on the loan word (e.g., lo shopper from lo shopping). Also 
noteworthy is the importance of the media in promoting and justifying the use of 
Anglicisms, such as joint venture and McDonald's. 

The international primacy of the English language, especially in the areas of science, 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 453 


finance, technology, music, sport, computers, and the visual media, is another important 
factor in the profound influence that English exerts on all languages, including present-day 
Italian. Even when the receiving culture possesses a word that expresses perfectly a 
particular concept, the foreign word is often deemed more acceptable for reasons of 
cultured snobbism. The author emphasizes the fact that the Anglo-impact comes not only 
from British and American variants of the language, but also from “global English” and 
“Euro-English.” 

Gloria Italiano poses a number of questions regarding the flow of English words into 
Italian. Can one predict the way a loan word is assimilated? To what extent do the 
historical realities of a given epoch influence the evolution of a language? What are the 
linguistic and cultural consequences that derive from this phenomenon? The author’s three 
working hypotheses are as follows: 1) The assimilation of a loan word is systematic since 
it is influenced by the same intrinsic features of the receiving language; 2) An objective 
analysis of the historical context in which the borrowing occurs can reveal certain forces 
that influence the linguistic changes in question; 3) The consequences of the linguistic 
assimilation are superficial on a grammatical level but profound on a cultural level. Gloria 
Italiano also notes that the receiving language is not the only one undergoing modification: 
curiously, English, the donor tongue, may subsequently also be molded and modified by 
the languages that have absorbed English loan words. Accordingly, modified English 
terms may return to the mother tongue and supplant the original lexical element. 

Parole a buon rendere is useful not only for scholarly research in a variety of fields but 
also for application in the classroom. This latter use of the book permits the instructor of 
Italian language, literature or culture to give his or her students real, comprehensive and 
often amusing examples of the transmigration of words between English and Italian. 
Examples of recently adopted Anglicisms in Italian will help the student of Italian at any 
level of instruction to comprehend better the fluid nature of language and the rapidity with 
which linguistic exchange is taking place, especially in the context of today’s global 
village. Some examples of the numerous English loan words that Italians have adopted, 
some directly and some with minor or major modification, are picnic, week-end, shopper, 
ticket, arrangiamento, bleffare, dischetto, cassetta, (h)ockeista, fotocopiatrice, stressato, 
zip, baby-banditi, baby-madre, la maggioranza silenziosa, la chiave di accesso. These 
examples illustrate both the breadth of the impact of English on Italian in all fields of 
vocabulary and the types of modifications that can and do take place when words are 
adopted into a receiving language. Clearly the fields that most promote the adoption of 
such neologisms include journalism, commerce, technology, advertising, and youth 
culture. 

Many of these borrowings will distress the more traditionally minded Italian speakers. 
These include native speakers of Italian who wish to maintain the purity of the mother 
tongue, non-native speakers of Italian who wish to acquire or retain a foundation of 
apparently purer Italian, and Italian expatriates who are horrified by the invasion of 
Anglicisms into Italian (e.g., faxare) but who nevertheless accept with equanimity, if not 
enthusiasm, the invasion of Italianisms into other languages, e.g., pizza and spaghetti in 
English. 

While it is impossible to give an adequate accounting of all the topics covered in this 
volume, it is worth mentioning that Gloria Italiano also analyzes resulting semantic 
changes, “linguaggio” as a socio-psycho-linguistic act, the drive to simplify the form of 
the loan word, the assignment of gender to loan nouns, and so forth. Parole A buon 


454 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


rendere also contains an impressive bibliography that will be of great use to those seeking 
a deeper understanding of the phenomenon of the transmigration of words from one 
language to another. The reader will also find a Banca dati analitica, an alphabetical list of 
calchi o adattamenti, in which we find examples of new, Anglicized Italian words such as 
bomba acca (“H-bomb”), /upetti (“cub scouts”), opinionista (“opinion-maker’), and 
quacchero (“Quaker”], and an alphabetical list of borrowed acronyms and abbreviations, 
in which we are reminded about the use in Italian of such familiar English short forms as 
Hi-Fi, LSD, KKK, REM, VIP, and WASP. Two other useful lists conclude this volume: 
namely, words and phrases in “Italo-Inglese” consisting primarily of commercial interests 
(stores, brand-names, musical groups, etc.), and hybridisms, some of which entered the 
Italian language decades ago (e.g., bistecca, sterlina), and others of fairly recent 
borrowings (e.g., faxare, zoomare, bisex). There is also an index of Anglicisms cited in the 
book (e.g., boicottaggio, filmare, impeachment). 

In conclusion, this book is recommended to specialists and generalists alike. In it the 
author explores a very important topic, and she does so with expertise and a sense of 
humor. By putting the current state of flux of the Italian language into a broader linguistic 
and cultural historical context, she also helps to alleviate the natural sense of anxiety that 
native and non-native speakers of Italian may feel as they encounter the seemingly 
unending flow of English loan words in the language that Dante and others fathered. 
Parole a buon rendere reminds us that the languages and cultures we impart to our 
students are not static but ever evolving organisms. It is the author’s hope that native 
speakers of Italian will become more aware of significant changes to Italian culture that 
may arise from a thoughtless and indiscriminate application of English loan words to 
litalica favella. 

V. Louise Katainen, Auburn University 


GianRenzo P. Clivio and Marcel Danesi. The Sounds, Forms, and Uses of Italian: An 
Introduction to Italian Linguistics. Toronto: Toronto UP, 2000. 

Undergraduate interest in Italian language and linguistics has been growing over the years, 
but the lack of an appropriate text has made it difficult to offer courses. Clivio and Danesi 
have filled the gap with this introduction to Italian linguistics. It is perfectly adapted to 
undergraduates with some knowledge of Italian who wish to enhance their formal 
knowledge of the Italian linguistic system and acquire analytical tools to interpret the 
language structures they are learning. Moreover, an Italian/English glossary of all lexical 
items utilized and a glossary of technical terms make this text appropriate for introductory 
Romance linguistics courses as well. 

The text’s nine chapters give an overview of linguistic aspects of Italian, and each is 
followed by questions that prompt students to summarize information in their own words 
or apply the models presented to Italian data. The first chapter presents a broad outline of 
the history of Italian that explores the relationship among the Romance languages and their 
development from spoken Latin, the predominance of Florentine in the development of the 
standard language, and salient features of the standard and the dialects. The discussion of 
the questione della lingua is predominantly a sketch of literary schools from the Scuola 
Siciliana to the present, with little emphasis placed on the roles of Ascoli, Bembo, 
Manzoni, and the Academia della Crusca. Chapter two includes an historical overview of 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 455 


the linguistics field (from Panini to Chomsky) and a clear and concise introduction of the 
linguistic topics covered in the book (phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, 
discourse, variation, and change), which are accompanied by transparent Italian examples. 
Chapter three explores Italian phonetics, syllable structure, intonation, stress, and 
orthography, while Chapters four through six coherently present the basics of phonology, 
morphology, and syntax, once again using accessible Italian examples which are sure to 
develop and refine students’ understanding of Italian constructions such as affixation, 
prepositional phrases, and relative clauses. Chapters seven and eight further enhance 
students’ experience of Italian by examining topics in semantics, pragmatics, and 
discourse, such as denotation, connotation, figurative language, metaphor, metonymy, 
irony, anaphors, cataphors and gestures. The text comes full circle in the last chapter by 
returning to the topic of dialectal variation that is introduced in the first chapter, but 
expands it to include varieties of Italian outside Italy like the Italian of North American 
immigrant communities, and social varieties (for example, adolescent language). The 
chapter closes with brief remarks on language change. 

This text is a laudable introduction to a variety of central topics in linguistics and 
their application to Italian. There are only a few quibbles that, brought to the attention of 
the instructor, will facilitate use of this text. The phonetic transcriptions employed in 
chapter three are a mixture of symbols from the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) and 
symbols often used by Italian linguists. For example, [y], [¢] and [j] are used instead of 
their IPA equivalents [j], [tf] and [dz]. Even though this will not be problematic for the 
students who have never studied linguistics before, it is worth mentioning these alternates, 
since they are sure to appear in other readings, or they may cause confusion for students 
who have already studied the IPA. In addition, the authors have adopted the notation [:] to 
indicate length, which reflects their position that “the practice in writing is to separate 
double consonants, whereas phonetically the double consonant is considered to be a 
phonic unit belonging to its own syllable: fatto = fat-to = [fa-t:o]” (60). However, this 
creates a contradiction, since the authors also point out that stressed vowels in an open 
syllable are long, but short in a closed syllable, such as when followed by a geminate. 
Since stressed vowels preceding geminates are short, it must be that the first element of the 
geminate closes the syllable containing the short stressed vowel, and the second element is 
the onset of the following syllable. Using the alternate method [fat-to] will make this 
distinction clear for students unfamiliar with linguistic notation. 

The activities following each chapter direct students’ attention to the important topics 
covered and give them the opportunity to apply the concepts to Italian data. The 
summaries of Searle’s and Jakobson’s theories in chapters seven and eight respectively 
may be too brief to be successfully applied by the students to the data provided in the 
exercises. Additional explanation or exemplification might be helpful. Occasional 
typographical oversights make some activities ambiguous. For example, in Chapter five, 
exercise seven should ask students to identify the affix rather than the suffix in each set of 
words; in exercise three of Chapter six, sentences g-k are duplicates of a-f, and the 
example in exercise ten of Chapter seven should read “Maria € una rosa” rather than 
“Maria € una salame.” 

These minor observations aside, this excellent text makes a significant contribution to 
undergraduate education. It promotes the study of Italian linguistics and will enhance 
every undergraduate’s language learning experience. 

Janice Aski, The Ohio State University 


456 “Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 


Brief Notices 

By Anne Tordi 
Cecchetti, Giovanni. Contrappunti / Counterpoiuts. Ed. Raymond Petrillo. Introd. 
Giose Rimanelli. Studies in Southern Italian and Italian/American Culture 9. New 
York: Peter Lang, 1997. 
This volume is a bilingual edition of Cecchetti’s prose and poetry. Among the selections 
are: “Il procione di Montreal,” “Coll’eta diminuisce la fretta,” “Il pozzo dell’infanzia,” 
“Poesia come necessita,” and “L’uccello aquiline.” The volume concludes with an 
afterword by Raymond Petrillo. 


Di Pasquale, Emanuel. The Silver Lake Love Poems. Via Folios 21. Lafayette, IN: 
Bordighera, 2000. Pp. 28. 

This volume presents a selection of poems by the writer and translator Emanuel di 
Pasquale, who has published poems in many anthologies and textbooks. Poems are 
untitled. 


Gioseffi, Daniela. Going On. Poems. Via Folios 23. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2001. 
Pp. 62. 

The author of stories, poems, criticism, and essays, and editor of the electronic magazine 
Wise Women's Web has collected here some of her poetry. Titles of some of the 
selections are: “August When Spiders Spin,” “The River Otter Goes Like Me,” 
“Breathing Light and Night into Song,” and “Orto Nova Provincia di Puglia.” 


Lima, Robert. Sardinia. / Sardegna. Via Folios 24. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2002. 
Pp. 57. 

In this work of prose and poetry, the author conveys his impressions of the island of 
Sardinia. The first section, “Isola,” describes the life and people of the island today. The 
second section, “Ichnusa,” “reflects on the island’s prehistory evinced by the Neolithic 
and Bronze Age remains.” 


Mitteilungen des Studiengangs Deutsch-Italienisch Studien / Studi italo-tedeschi 4 
(Dezember 2000). Pp. 54. 

This collection of essays from the University of Bonn includes contributions from the 
following authors: Willi Hirdt (“Machiavelli und die Mandragola”’); Willi Jung 
(“Verleihung der Ehrendoktorwirde an Frau Prof. Dr. Maria Caciagli Fancelli”); Maria 
Caciagli Fancelli (“Ansprache anlasslich der Verleihung der Ehrendoktorwiirde am 17. 
Juni 2000 in der Universitat Bonn’). 


Musa da Calice, Romeo. La luna sul salice: racconto di nonna Zibetta. / The Moon on 
the Willow Tree: The Tale of Nonna Zibetta. Trans. and introd. Adelia V. Williams. 
Crossings 8. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2000. Pp. 82. 

This publication contains the English translation of a modern children’s tale by the artist 
and illustrator Romeo Musa, writing under the pen name Musa da Calice. The Moon and 
the Willow Tree was written between 1936 and 1944, and was accompanied by 100 
woodcuts. Though an original work, it draws on folklore and traditional stories in 
recounting the adventures of a band of animals, including the housecat Nonna Zibetta, 
who crusade against evildoers in the countryside around Calice in the province of Parma. 


“Italian Bookshelf,” Annali d’italianistica 19 (2001) 457 


Il nome del testo. Rivista internazionale di onomastica letteraria 1 (1999). 

This review, edited by Maria Giovanna Arcamone, Francesco Maria Casotti, and Davide 
De Camilli, brings together the conference papers presented at “Onomastica e 
intertestualita. Atti del V Convegno internazionale di onomastica e letteratura. Universita 
di Pisa 28-19 febbraio 1999.” Among the contributors are: Elisabetta Quadrelli 
(“Wolfram von Eschenbach e Chrétien de Troyes: un confronto sui nomi”); Bruno 
Porcelli (“Catone e Matelda: nominazione assente e nominazione ritardata’’); 
Michelangelo Picone (“Onomastica e tradizione letteraria: il caso di Romeo e Giulietta’”); 
and Giorgio Baroni (“Mitologia e altro nei nomi del Giorno di Giuseppe Parini”). 


Pascoli, Giovanni. Poemi conviviali / Gastmahlgedichte. Italienisch-Deutsch Ausgabe 
Ubersetzt und mit einem Nachwort von Willi Hirdt. Tiibingen: Stauffenburg, 2000. 
Pp. 330. 

Some of the selections in this bilingual (Italian-German) edition of Pascoli’s poems are: 
“Solon,” “Il cieco di Chio,” “La cetra d’Achille,” “Gog e Magog,” and “La buona 
novella.” At the conclusion of the poetry section is an afterword by Willi Hirdt entitled 
“Giovanni Pascolis Poemi conviviali zwischen Mythographie und Philosophie. 


Ricci, Giovanni R. L’interpretazione rimossa. I primi due versi del “Contrasto” di 
Cielo d’Alcamo. | quaderni di gazebo 3. Firenze: Gazebo, 1999. Pp. 57. 

This slim volume is a study of the first two verses of Cielo d’Alcamo’s “Contrasto.” The 
essay is followed by the text of the “Contrasto” and notes. 


Salerno, Joe. Song of the Tulip Tree / La canzone della magnolia. Ital. trans. 
Emanuel di Pasquale. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 1999. Pp. 86. 

This volume is a bilingual edition of poetry by Joseph Francis Salerno (1947-1995). 
Some of the poems published here are: “Moose Love,” “In the Silence after Fighting,” 
“The Hermit’s Song,” “Late Summer Rose,” “At the Computer Company,” and the title 
poem, “Song of the Tulip Tree.” 


Stefanile, Felix. The Country of Absence. Poems and an Essay. Via Folios 18. 
Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2000. Pp. 60. 

The volume opens with the essay entitled “The Allegory of the Hyphen.” Among the new 
and previously published poems collected here are “The Catch,” “Feast of San Gennaro,” 
“The Day We Danced the Saint,” “Taking Sides with John Ciardi,” and “The 
Americanization of the Immigrant.” 


Ugo Facco De Lagarda (1896-1982). La vocazione inquieta di uno scrittore veneziano. 
Atti del convegno, Venezia 7-8 novembre 1997. Ed. Alessandro Scarsella. 
Miscellanea marciana 14 (1999). Venezia: Biblioteca nazionale marciana, 2000. Pp. 
366. ‘ 

Some of the contributors to this conference on Facco De Lagarda are: Giannantonio 
Paladini (“Per un ritratto di Ugo Facco De Lagarda”’); Paolo Leoncini (“La poesia di Ugo 
Facco De Lagarda dagli anni trenta al secondo dopoguerra’); Giorgio Luti (“Note sulla 
tecnica narrativa nei romanzi di Facco De Lagarda’); Gino Pastega (“Testimonianza per 
Facco”); and Gregory Dowling (“Romanzo poliziesco 0 ‘Novel of Manners’?”). 





a : | 
gi 





- Ts sarees 
ee 


An INVITA TION to SUBSCRIBE 


ANNALI D’ITALIANISTICA 


VOLUMES SOLD OUT available in unbound photocopies: | (1983), Pulci 
and Boiardo; 2 (1984), Guicciardini; 3 (1985), Manzoni; 6 (1988), Film and 
Literature 
VOLUMES AVAILABLE: 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
volume 9 (1991), The Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of America & Columbus in Italian Literature 
volume 11 (1993), Goldoni 1993 
volume 12 (1994), The Italian Epic and Its International Context 
volume 13 (1995), Italian Women Mystics 
volume 14 (1996), Travel Literature 
volume 15 (1997), Anthropology and Italian Literature 
volume 16 (1998), Italian Cultural Studies 
volume 17 (1999), New Landscapes in Contemporary Italian Cinema 
volume 18 (2000), Beginnings/Endings/Beginnings 
volume 19 (2001), Literature, Criticism, and Ethics 


VOLUMES IN PREPARATION: 

volume 20 (2002), The Literature of Exile/Exile in Literature 

volume 21 (2003), Hodoeporics 

volume 22 (2004), Petrarch and the European Lyric 
Rates for U.S.A. and Canada: Individuals $20 USA; Institutions $29; 
Agencies $27. Back issues: Add $3 per volume to price indicated above. 
Rates for countries outside North America: Individuals $26; Institutions 
$36; Agencies $33. Back issues: Add $3 per volume to price indicated 
above. 

Publication and shipping date: Fall of every year. 


IF YOUR UNIVERSITY DOES NOT SUBSCRIBE, PLEASE SEND THE 
ABOVE INFORMATION TO THE LIBRARY WITH YOUR REQUEST 
TO SUBSCRIBE. PLEASE SEND YOUR OWN SUBSCRIPTION, 
PAYABLE TO ANMALI D’ITALIANISTICA, TO UNC-CH, CB# 3170, Dey 
Hall 141, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. Fax: (919) 962-5457; E-mail: 


annali@metalab.unc.edu http://metalab.unc.edu/annali/ 


Name 





Address 





Studi e Testi 


A Collection of Monographs 
sponsored by 
Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 
Directed byLuigi Monga & Dino S. Cervigni 


* 


Augustus Mastri, ed. The Flight of Ulysses: Essays in Memory of Emmanuel 
Hatzantonis. Studi & Testi 1. Chapel Hill, NC: Annali ditalianistica, 1997. Pp. 
360. 

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 97-72098 

ISBN 0-9657956-0-8 


Rosamaria Lavalva. 7he Eternal Child: The Poetry and Poetics of Giovanni 
Pascoli. Studi & Testi 2. Chapel Hill, NC: Annali ditalianistica, 1999. Pp. 
226. 

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 99-072079 

ISBN 0-9657956-1-6 


Massimo Maggiari, ed. The Waters of Hermes / Le acque di Ermes. Studi & 
Testi 3. Chapel Hill, NC: Annali d’italianistica, 2000. Pp. 208. 

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 00-131648 

ISBN 0-9657956-2-4 


Giuseppe Conte. Le stagioni / The Seasons. Studi & Testi 4. Chapel Hill, NC: 
Annali d’italianistica, 2001. Pp. xvi + 136. 

Library of Congress Control Number: 2001086991 

ISBN 0-9657956-3-2 


In preparation: 

Maria Domitilla Galluzzi. Vita da lei narrata (1624). Ed., introd., and notes 
by Olimpia Pelosi. Studi & Testi 5. Chapel Hill, NC: Annali d’italianistica, 
forthcoming 2001. ISBN 0-9657956-4-0 


2 kK 


Send orders to: 

Annali ditalianistica, Inc. 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
Each volume: $21 (paperback only) 
Add $3 for shipping and handling 
Fax: (919) 962 5457 
Web site: http://ibiblio.unc.edu/annali/ 
E-mail: annali@metalab.unc.edu 


The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 







The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 1909, links its distinguished 
past of internationally known faculty and alumni to a lively and timely 
intellectual exchange in the present. The Department offers M.A. & Ph.D. 
degrees in French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Romance Philology. 







Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. Distinguished 





lecturers are invited each year. 







Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispanofila, and Annali d’Italianistica. 







Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 5,000,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. Cooperative purchasing and borrowing programs 
with Duke University and North Carolina State University enhance the holdings 
of the Davis Library. 











Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers numerous 
fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit Fellowships 
(including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-$15,000. Teaching 
Assistantships: $10,00-$15,000. Endowments enable the Department to offer 
supplemental scholarships to qualified students. Most students teach two or three 
sections of beginning language courses per academic year, according to their 
teaching experience and the University’s needs. 














Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to the 
Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by visiting 
the University’s website (www.unc.edu). For more information visit the journal’s 
website: http://www. ibiblio.org/annali/ 






Anno XXVI - n. 2 Aprile - Giugno 2001 


ESPERIENZE LETTERARIE 


Rivista trimestrale di critica e di cultura fondata da Mario SANTORO 
diretta da Marco SANTORO 


SOMMARIO 


ALDO SCAGLIONE, Literature and anthropology: from Gilgamesh to James Joyce. pag. 3 


ANDREA BaTTISTINI, Le cittd visibili e invistbili di Italo Calvino..................... » 
CONTRIBUTI 
FRANCESCA BERARDI, I/ libro di Orlando...........0 0.00.00 cece ccc ec ccc ceeeceeeeuees » 


CLaupDIO GIGANTE, Dal Tasso al Bargeo, dal Bargeo al Tasso. Per un’interpre- 
tazione del ventesimo libro della Gerusalemme conquistata...................-. » 


NOTE 


MICHELA FANTATO, «E Giacomo sara con noi»: Amicizia e polemica tra Noventa 


@ DGG sip ierace sannnidcatadcentasetesaittaa is tics ia asa eraathng peat: » 
OCCASIONI 
GIAN CARLO FERRETTI, Errori e colpe della normalit.......0..0..0..0000ccecceeveeees » 
RASSEGNE 


Marc FOckKING, Tendenze attuali negli studi sul Cinque-Setcento italiano in 
lingua tedesca (1990-2000) 


Maurizio De Paouts, La scuola siciliana 


21 


39 


61 


73 


83 


85 


99 


RECENSIONI 


Vittorio Russo, Sagg? di filologia dantesca, Napoli, Bibliopolis, 2000 (Corrado 


ANDREA BATTISTINI, Galileo e i Gesuiti. Miti letterari e retorica della scienza, 
Milano, Vita e Pensiero, 2000 (Paola Zito). ........ccccceccesecceccccccccceccuces 


ELIo GIOANOLA, Sentimenti filiali di un parricida, Milano, Jaca Book, 2000 
(Dai sela TBISUCHO) hes iia vakin chs got taaltns ste buena e taps tos Mot divusindideasa us 


SCHEDE BIBLIOGRAFICHE 

(a cura di Federica Benedetti, Franca Bosco, Maria Cristina Cafisse, Assunta 
De Crescenzo, Girolamo de Miranda, Maurizio De Paolis, Rosa Francesca 
Farina, Valentina Gallo, Enrico Gragnani, Francesca Manfredi, Alessan- 
dro Prato, Emilio Russo, Silvia Salvi, Daria Verzilli, Paola Zito)............... 


SPOGLIO DELLE RIVISTE 

(a cura di Girolamo de Miranda, Maurizio De Paolis, Rosa Francesca Farina, 
Valentina Gallo, Giuseppina Monaco, Antonella Orlandi, Carmela Reale, 
Emilio Russo, Silvia Salvi, Paola Zito)..............scccessecsecececoesssssesesesces 


» 


» 


105 


107 


1i2 


140 


Consiglio direttivo: MICHELE CATAUDELLA, REMO CESERANI, SALVATORE D’ELIA, CARMINE DI BIASE, RENZO 
FRATTAROLO, WALTER MORETTI, GIOVANNI SAVERIO SANTANGELO, Mario Scotti, ACHILLE TARTARO. 


Comitato di redazione: FRANCA Bosco, Maria CRISTINA CAFISSE, ANTONIA FIoRINO, GIAN CARLO 


MENICHELLI, MATTEO PALUMBO, CARMELA REALE, ANNA SANTORO, PAOLA ZITO. 


Comutato redazionale estero: MARGARET BAKER (Australia), ZYGMUNT BARANSKY (Gran Bretagna), CHRISTIAN 
Bec (Francia), RuF CHLopowsky (Russia), PIER GlorGIO Cont! (Svizzera), FRANCOISE DECROISETTE 
(Francia), Mario Fusco (Francia), GLoriA GALLI DE OrtEGa (Argentina), GEORGE GUNTERT (Sviz- 
zera), Horst HEINTZzE (Germania), MADDALENA KUITUNEN (Canada), ALBERT N. MANCINI (Stati 


Uniti), Marfa De Las Nieves Muniz Muniz (Spagna), MICHEL OLSEN (Danimarca), MIKULAS PAZITKA 


(Repubblica Slovacca), G. SINGH (Gran Bretagna), Krzysztor ZABOKLICKI (Polonia). 
Segreteria di redazione: MaRIA CRISTINA CAFISSE, CARMELA REALE, EMILIO Russo, Paota ZITO. 








Istituti Editoriali e Poligrafici Internazionali 
Pisa-Roma 


An INVITA TION to SUBSCRIBE 


ANNALI D’ITALIANISTICA 


VOLUMES SOLD OUT available in unbound photocopies: | (1983), Pulci 
and Boiardo; 2 (1984), Guicciardini; 3 (1985), Manzoni; 6 (1988), Film and 
Literature 
VOLUMES AVAILABLE: 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
volume 9 (1991), The Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of America & Columbus in Italian Literature 
volume 11 (1993), Goldoni 1993 
volume 12 (1994), The Italian Epic and Its International Context 
volume 13 (1995), Italian Women Mystics 
volume 14 (1996), Travel Literature 
volume 15 (1997), Anthropology and Italian Literature 
volume 16 (1998), Italian Cultural Studies 
volume 17 (1999), New Landscapes in Contemporary Italian Cinema 
volume 18 (2000), Beginnings/Endings/Beginnings 
volume 19 (2001), Literature, Criticism, and Ethics 


VOLUMES IN PREPARATION: 

volume 20 (2002), The Literature of Exile/Exile in Literature 

volume 21 (2003), Hodoeporics 

volume 22 (2004), Petrarch and the European Lyric 
Rates for U.S.A. and Canada: Individuals $20 USA; Institutions $29; 
Agencies $27. Back issues: Add $3 per volume to price indicated above. 
Rates for countries outside North America: Individuals $26; Institutions 
$36; Agencies $33. Back issues: Add $3 per volume to price indicated 
above. 

Publication and shipping date: Fall of every year. 


IF YOUR UNIVERSITY DOES NOT SUBSCRIBE, PLEASE SEND THE 
ABOVE INFORMATION TO THE LIBRARY WITH YOUR REQUEST 
TO SUBSCRIBE. PLEASE SEND YOUR OWN SUBSCRIPTION, 
PAYABLE TO ANMNALI D’ITALIANISTICA, TO UNC-CH, CB# 3170, Dey 
Hall 141, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. Fax: (919) 962-5457; E-mail: 
annali@metalab.unc.edu http://metalab.unc.edu/annali/ 


Name 


Address 








ANNALI D’ITALIANISTICA 


VOLUMES SOLD OUT 
available in unbound photocopies ($15 each) 
volume | (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 
volume 2 (1984), Guicciardini; 
volume 3 (1985), Manzoni 
volume 6 (1988), Film and Literature 
VOLUMES AVAILABLE: 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices in Italian Literature 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
volume 9 (1991), The Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of America & Columbus in Italian Literature 
volume 11 (1993), Goldoni 1993 
volume 12 (1994), The Italian Epic and Its International Context 
volume 13 (1995), Italian Women Mystics 
volume 14 (1996), Travel Literature 
volume 15 (1997), Anthropology and Italian Literature 
volume 16 (1998), Italian Cultural Studies 
volume 17 (1999), New Landscapes in Contemporary Italian Cinema 
volume 18 (2000), Beginnings/Endings/Beginnings 
volume 19 (2001), Literature, Criticism, and Ethics 


VOLUMES IN PREPARATION: 
volume 20 (2002), The Literature of Exile 
volume 21 (2003), Hodoeporics 
volume 22 (2004), Petrarch and the European Lyric 


ISSN 0741-7527 


Rates for U.S.A. and Canada: Individuals $20 USA; Institutions $29; 
Agencies $27. Back issues: Add $3 per volume to price indicated above. 


Rates for countries outside North America: Individuals $26; Institutions 
$36; Agencies $33. Back issues: Add $3 per volume to price indicated 
above. 


Publication and shipping date: Fall of every year. 
http://www. ibiblio.org/annali annali@metalab.unc.edu 





Gustave Doré's engraving of the Divina Commedia 
_(Inf. IV, 70-105) emphasizes Dante's awareness of 
his role as one of "la bella scola" of the great poets 
of classical antiquity ("si ch'io fui sesto fra cotanto 
senno"): Homer, Ovid, Lucan, Horace, and Virgil, 

Dante's own "dottore." 


Cover Design by 





