ANNALI 
D’ITALIANISTICA 


Dante 
and 
Modern American Criticism 


PO 


Dino S. Cervigni 


Volume 8, 1990 


AdlI 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
EDITOR: 
Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: 
Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 
Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Edoardo A. Lébano, Indiana University 
Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 
ADVISORY BOARD: 
Luigi Ballerini, New York University 
Emesto G. Caserta, Duke University 
Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Cecil Grayson, Magdalen College, Oxford 
Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 
Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 
Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 
Paolo Valesio, Yale University 
Aldo Vallone, Universita degli Studi di Napoli 
Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 


Annali d’Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its cultural context, to 
foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of interest to a large number of Italianists. 
Monographic in nature, the journal is receptive to a variety of topics, critical approaches, and 
theoretical perspectives. Each year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and contributions 
are welcome. The joumal is issued in the fall of each year. For all communications concerning 
contributions and subscriptions, address the Editor, Annali d’/talianistica, The University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. Subscription rates: Regular $12; 
institution $19; patron $30; donor $50; benefactor $100; foreign subscribers: $21 (surface 
mail). Checks, in U.S. currency, should be made payable to Annali d’Italianistica. Manuscripts 
should be submitted with a Mcintosh or IBM compatible disk and should be accompanied by a 
stamped, self-addressed envelope. Authors should follow the MLA style for articles in English; 
articles in Italian should conform to the Adi style sheet. 


© 1990 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Annali d’Italianistica 


Contents, Volume 8, 1990 


4 Ad! 1992: 
Images of Columbus and the New World in Italian literature 
* & 
5) Dino S. Cervigni. Dante and Modern American Criticism: 
An Introductory Essay 
I. Perspectives on 


Dante and Modern American Criticism 


30 Ricardo J. Quinones. Dante and Modernism 

38 Charles S. Ross. Dante and Dominion: 
Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 

58 Zygmunt G. Barahski. Reflecting on Dante in America: 
1949-1990 


88 Steven Botterill. Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 

104 Rocco Montano. Il commento alla Divina commedia di Charles S. 
Singleton 

116 David Robey. Dante and Modern American Criticism: 
Post-structuralism 

132 Paul Colilli. Harold Bloom and the Post-theological Dante 

144 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: 
Modern American Translation of the Commedia 

166 Marina R. de Fazio. Dante Studies: A Decade of American 
Dissertations (1980-1989) 


II. From the Vita nuova to the Commedia: 
Phenomenology, Historicity, Authority, 
and Philosophy 


180 Robert P. Harrison. Phenomenology of the Vita nuova 
186 Albert Russell Ascoli. “Neminem ante nos.” 
Historicity and Authority in the De vulgari eloquentia 
232 Mario Trovato. Dante’s Poetics of Good: 
From Phenomenology to Integral Realism 
258 John A. Scott. Dante and Philosophy 


Il. The Commedia: 
Narrative and Interpretive Strategies 


278 Paolo Valesio. La vena ermetica della Commedia 

300 Tibor Wlassics. Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 

314 Teodolinda Barolini. Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 

346 Christopher Kleinhenz. Biblical Citation in Dante’s Comedy 


IV. Textuality and Intertextuality 


360 John Took. Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 

384 R. A. Shoaf. “Dante in ynglyssh”: The Prologue to the Legend of 
Good Women and Inferno 13 (Chaucer and Pier della Vigna) 

396 Kay Schiller. Dante and Kantorowicz. 


412 Giuseppe Mazzotta. An Epilogue 


REVIEWS AND NOTES 
NOTES 
Gustavo Costa. L’Arcadia: movimento letterario o utopia? (420) 
Beatrice Collina. Una commediografa in convento: Beatrice del Sera e il teatro 
delle monache. (431) 
ITALIAN BOOKSHELF. Edited with the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, 
Albert N. Mancini, Gustavo Costa, and John P. Welle 
Leonard G. Sbrocchi. J verbi italiani et leurs équivalents francais and their 
English equivalents (Frank Nuessel 438). Italiana 1987 (Clavio Ascari 439). 
Dante: The Banquet (Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 442). Paul Colilli. Petrarch’s 
Allegories of Writing (Davy A. Carozza 445). Constance Jordan. Pulci’s 
Morgante: Poetry and History in Fifteenth-Century Florence (Raymond Adolph 
Prier 449). Diane Finiello Zervas. The Parte guelfa, Brunelleschi & Donatello 
(T. C. Price Zimmerman 453). L’Espositione di Bernardino Daniello da Lucca 
sopra la Comedia di Dante (Aldo Vallone 454). Poesia e poetica delle rovine di 
Roma. Momenti e problemi. A c. di Vincenzo De Caprio (Gustavo Costa 455). 
Jon R. Snyder. Writing the Scene of Speaking. Theories of Dialogue in the Late 
Italian Renaissance (Paul F. Grendler 457). One Hundred Renaissance Jokes: An 
Anthology (Albert N. Mancini 459). Robert Tofte. Discourse to the Bishop of 
London. Ed. Robert C. Melzi (John M. Headley 461). Louise George Clubb. 
Italian Drama in Shakespeare’s Time (Salvatore Cappelletti 463). Francesco 
Guardiani. La meravigliosa retorica dell’ Adone di G. B. Marino (Emilio Speciale 
464). Italian Writers of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries (Salvatore 


Cappelletti 466). Anna Santoro. Narratrici italiane dell’Ottocento (Rosalia 
Colombo Ascari 468). Leopardi nella critica internazionale. A c. di Mario 
Santoro (Ernesto G. Caserta 469). Giorgio Barberi Squarotti. Manzoni: le 
delusioni della letteratura (Maria Iocco 473). Nuovi studi in onore di Mario 
Santoro. Ed. Maria Cristina Cafisse et al. (Clavio Ascari 475). Raymond 
Petrillo. Itinerario del primo Verga: 1864-1874 (Frank Ignazio Caldarone 478). 
Dante Della Terza. Letteratura e critica tra Otto e Novecento (Margherita Heyer- 
Caput 481). Ernesto Paolozzi. Vicende dell’estetica tra vecchio e nuovo 
positivismo (Giovanni Gullace 483). Maria Messina. Piccoli gorghi. Gente che 
passa. La casa nel vicolo (Rosalia Colombo Ascari 487). Diaro Biocca, ed. A 
Matter of Passion: Letters of Bernard Berenson and Clotilde Marghieri (John W. 
Dixon, Jr. 490). Aine O’Healy. Cesare Pavese (Eugenio N. Frongia 493). JoAnn 
Cannon. Postmodern Italian Fiction. The Crisis of Reason in Calvino, Eco, 
Sciascia, Malerba (Rebecca West 496). Gian-Paolo Biasin. Montale, Debussy, 
and Modernism (Rebecca West 498). Giorgio Cavallini. Strutture tendenze 
esempi della poesia italiana del Novecento (Massimo Maggiari 501). Maryse 
Jeuland-Meynaud. Immagini, linguaggio e modelli del corpo nell’opera narrativa 
di Matilde Serao (Eugenia Malagoli Skwarecki 503). Gaetana Marrone. La 
drammatica di Ugo Betti. Tematiche e archetipi (Walter Geerts 504). Franco 
Brevini, a c. di. Poeti dialettali del Novecento (Hermann W. Haller 507). 
Mariarosa Bricchi. Due partigiani, due primavere: un percorso fenogliano. Maria 
Grazia Di Paolo. Beppe Fenoglio fra tema e simbolo. Beppe Fenoglio. A Private 
Matter (Mark Pietralunga 509). Raffaello Franchini. Eutanasia dei principii 
logici (Giovanni Gullace 512). Renata Viti Cavaliere. [1 gran principio: 
Heidegger e Leibniz (Giovanni Gullace 515). Giovanna Miceli Jeffries. Lo 
scrittore, il lavoro e la letteratura: la rappresentazione del lavoro nella narrativa di 
Italo Svevo (Gian-Paolo Biasin 518). Elisabetta Mondello. La nuova italiana: la 
donna nella stampa e nella cultura del ventennio (Robin Pickering-Iazzi 519). 
Calvino Revisited. Ed. Franco Ricci (Michael Freedberg 522). Giovanni Giudici: 
Fortezza (Margherita Pieracci Harwell 524). Joseph Tusiani, La Parola difficile. 
Autobiografia di un italo-americano (Maria Pastore Passaro 527). Federico 
Fellini. La strada. Ed. Peter Bondanella and Manuela Gieri (Millicent Marcus 
528). 


ao Books Received. 
534 Fredi Chiappelli (1921-1990): In Memory. 
536 Acknowledgements and Advertisements. 


AdI 1992 
Images of Columbus and the New World 
in Italian Literature 


1992 commemorates a high point in the history of Western civilization, 
Columbus’s first crossing of the Atlantic in 1492. Although historical 
knowledge about Columbus’s life and accomplishments is incomplete or 
controversial, groups and individuals in both Europe and America have employed 
the image of Columbus to embody their ideologies and to give legitimacy to 
their goals. The debate on the significance and impact of Columbus's voyages is 
still open. Did Columbus’s voyage mark the discovery of a new continent by 
Europeans, or was it an encounter that brought brutality and misunderstanding 
but also open new lines of communication among people of many cultures? 

Columbus’s contradictory images, documented in the chronicles, have 
consistently, even obsessively, fascinated scholars and artists during the last five 
hundred years. Depicted as a hero or a villain, or both, the Genoese navigator has 
become the subject of so many works by historians and writers who have sought 
to examine those images’ formation and development and to interpret the ways 
they shaped religious and political views. Literary iconology reveals a hero’s 
changing figure, variously idealized and trivialized, ignored and revived. Thus, 
while Columbus appealed to colonial North American writers as a discoverer, his 
later difficulties with the Spanish crown impressed them equally, for American 
writers saw those episodes as prototypes of their own rejection of monarchy. At 
the same time, some twentieth-century authors, such as Alejo Carpentier, 
denounce Columbus’s foolishness, mendacity, and insatiable greed for gold. To 
be sure, Stigliani, Tassoni, Leopardi, and Pascarella; Baudelaire and Claudel; Las 
Casas and Zorilla; Platen and Schiller; Tennyson, Swinburne, J. R. Lowell, and 
W. Whitman: each in his own way reshapes and gives artistic meaning to the 
Columbian saga, in which Columbus becomes an ideal construct whose identity 
derives from different literary, historiographical, and political traditions. 

The 1992 Quincentenary affords Ad/ the opportunity to investigate the 
depictions of Columbus and the discovery of the New World in Italian literature 
from the Renaissance to the present. Ad/ 1992 will also examine and interpret 
the motivations and circumstances that determined the emerging of another 
persona: the ethnic Columbus, whom the Italian immigrants and writers created 
through the interacting of imagination, experience, and toil. Submissions are 
invited in all literary genres, bibliography, philology, critical exegesis of 
particular texts, theoretical and philosophical analysis, with emphasis on the 
following themes: Columbus as myth and mythmaker; ideologies and the 
literature of discovery; poetic and political aspects of the discovery of the New 
World; the Americanization of Columbus; Columbus's learning and cultural 
context; the historical and symbolic roles of Columbus’s image in the 
development of the literary representation of America’s culture. 


Dino S. Cervigni 


Dante and Modern American Criticism: 
An Introductory Essay 


The 1990 issue of Annali d’italianistica intends, and has so intended since its 
conception, to offer scholars in North America and overseas the opportunity to 
reflect on the proposed theme, “Dante and Modern American Criticism,” and to 
provide a perspective on the status of Dante studies in America. It is our hope 
that this volume will help all Dante readers — specialists and non-specialists — 
to assess the present status of modern American Dante studies and to map new, 
or renewed, critical avenues for the future. 

When this issue was first planned, I proposed Charles S. Singleton’s work 
on Dante as our investigation’s historical starting point: an explicit 
acknowledgment of the importance and influence of Singleton’s Dantean studies 
and an implicit invitation to assess the status of Dante scholarship in this 
country bearing in mind the contribution of Singleton in its totality.! 
Announcing the topic in 1988, I wrote: “Almost forty years ago, Charles S. 
Singleton published his first major work on Dante, his Essay on the Vita nuova 
(1949), which within ten years saw its sequel in two additional studies: 
Commedia: Elements of Structure (1954) and Journey to Beatrice (1958). 
Singleton’s work continued into the 1960s and 1970s through several essays, 
through his contribution to /Iluminated Manuscripts of the Divine Comedy 
(1969), and primarily through his six-volume translation and commentary of the 
Commedia (1970-75)” (AdI 6 [1988]: 3).2 Thus, most of the present volume’s 


* Like all the other issues of Ad/ , this volume is the product of a collaborative endeavor. I would 
like to recognize the support of this issue’s contributors, the interest of all those scholars 
whose work could not be included due to constraints of time and space, and the encouragement of 
friends and colleagues, especially Edward Vasta from the University of Notre Dame, Albert N. 
Mancini from the Ohio State University, and Antonio Illiano from the University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill. 

1A bibliography of Singleton’s publications can be found in Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio: 
Studies in the Italian Trecento in Honor of Charles S. Singleton XXIII-XXVII, reprinted in Dante 

Studies 104 (1986): 3-8. 

2 Between this issue’s announcement in December 1988 and its publication in December 1990, 
the Dante Society of America published an issue of Dante Studies precisely in memoriam of 
Charles S. Singleton (volume 104, 1986, which appeared in 1989). Only three of the volume’s 
eight essays are devoted to Singleton: an implicit sign — one could argue — of American 
scholars’ attempt to distance themselves from Singleton’s critical approach. None of those 
three authors — Dante Della Terza, Giuseppe Mazzotta, and Richard Macksey — can be called a 


6 Dino S. Cervigni 


essays acknowledge Singleton’s influence, take stock of his legacy, and discuss 
his works in critical terms. Singleton’s spirit can easily be discerned throughout 
these pages. 


The twenty essays in Ad/ 1990 focus on four fundamental and interrelated areas 
of Dante studies. The first group examines, from an historical perspective, Dante 
studies in twentieth-century America. Two essays in this group — one by 
Ricardo J. Quinones, “Dante and Modernism,” and the second by Charles S. 
Ross, “Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot” — implicitly challenge the commonly 
held opinion that Singleton’s oeuvre gave impetus to contemporary Dante 
scholarship in America. 

More specifically, Quinones argues that one of the “most important literary 
rediscoveries of the twentieth century” has been Dante’s Purgatorio, “which is 
more deeply implicated in twentieth-century thought and being than we have 
heretofore imagined.” Quinones connects such a rediscovery primarily with the 
poetry of T. S. Eliot and W. H. Auden.* Among the predispositions for this 
century’s rediscovery of Dante’s Purgatorio, Quinones points first to Freudian 
psychology (“For all of his enormous differences from Dante’s great theology of 
desire . . . Freud also portrays the human personality as being invested with 
powerful drives, and as with Dante, the great need is to set these drives in 
order.”), then to the modern preoccupation with “time, change and development,” 
and finally to the Purgatorio’s concern with “the sources of creativity.” This last 
topic in Quinones’s essay needs emphasizing, for it implicitly connects 
Modernism’s interest in Dante with Singleton’s deeper motivations: “It should 
be clear why the central poem in Dante’s great trilogy should have found such 
resonant appeal and response among our Own maggiori muse and in our own 
criticism. Like Shakespeare’s last plays, it too represents an argument of 
spiritual reclamation.”* 

Charles S. Ross explores the ways in which the image of the walls and 





“Singletonian.” In the words of the editor, Anthony L. Pellegrini, “The first essay presents a 
fairly general appraisal of the scholar’s work, the second seeks to link his critical thought 
through Emerson to the ‘myth of America,’ and the third portrays the man in a more personal 
vein” (“Foreword” V). 

3 De Fazio’s article, which contains a section on Dante and T. S. Eliot, seems to confirm 
Quinones’s argument. 

4 For Mazzotta (“The American Criticism of Charles S. Singleton”) the deeper motivations and 
roots of Singleton’s approach to Dante must be found in “the visionary charge of the Puritan 
pilgrims,” where resides “the religious foundation of America” and which “remains central to the 
mythopoiesis of the Transcendentalists. The leader of the Transcendentalists, Ralph Waldo 
Emerson, “plays a central role in the introduction of Dante into the American academic culture of 
the nineteenth century to which Singleton is heir” (35). 


An Introductory Essay 7 


towers of the Commedia raises the problem of an individual’s relation to 
institutions, which requires conformity: the price paid for social order. He argues 
that conformity’s pressures impose the forgetting of injustice, which is acted out 
in the literary image of the haunted house. Beginning with Dante’s early 
commentators, Ross traces the awareness that the castle, a contained space, 
symbolizes social order. When social order becomes corrupt, as in the 
treacherous hospitality of Dante’s Ptolomea, its exorcism results in a new 
political dominion, which itself cannot escape the charge of power politics and 
ethnocentrism. Ross’s essay is doubly interesting for his careful analysis of 
classical (especially Virgil and Statius), Renaissance (Boiardo, Spenser, and 
primarily Shakespeare), and twentieth-century authors (T. S. Eliot). The main 
thrust of Ross’s essay, therefore, leads up to the same suggestions proposed by 
Quinones. Thus both contributors point up the function of Modernism in the 
shaping of the revival of Dante studies in America. To Quinones’s and Ross’s 
voices one should also add Cachey’s “Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: 
Modern American Translation of the Commedia,” which points out that “literary 
modernism distinguished itself by its appreciation of the poetic values of the 
Commedia.” 

Two essays in Ad/ 1990 deal with Singleton’s work more extensively than 
does any other; both are penned by scholars who had the opportunity to follow 
and/or study the American scholars’ debate from a distance: Zygmunt G. 
Barariski, who teaches at the University of Reading, and Steven Botterill, who 
was educated in the United Kingdom. 

Barariski’s study, “Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990,” is more 
than a “reflection,” since it provides an assessment, an interpretation, and an 
investigation of Dante studies in America. Barariski recognizes the magnitude of 
America’s Dante scholarship (“The actual volume of criticism itself is 
dauntingly impressive: well over 3,000 studies in less than two centuries”) as 
well as its prominence, which he attributes to Singleton only in part. For 
Barariski, the principal positive traits of Singleton’s works are: “his emphasis on 
Dante’s debts to Biblical exegesis,” a “preoccupation with matters of structure 
and hermeneutics,” and “an American intellectual heritage,” although to this 
latter Singleton made no reference. At the same time, Barariski argues, 
Singletonian exegesis “contains the mechanisms of its own demise,” for, as a 
method, hermeneutical interpretation is “too reductive . . . circular and 
solipsistic.” In the critic’s dogmatic “self-confidence in the correctness of his 
arguments” along with a “critical partisanship” and an “intellectual nationalism,” 
Baratiski sees the “poverty of reference” and the unidimensionality of 
“philologically questionable premises.” Barariski pays special attention to 
Singleton’s discussion of allegory: Singleton “has a fairly traditional view of 
allegory”; “the distinctions he draws between allegory and analogy are not always 
appropriate”; “what, in 1949, he termed ‘analogy’ is, in fact, very close to what, 
a few years later, he would term ‘symbolism’”; and he “limited his attention to 


8 Dino S. Cervigni 


the ‘moral’” sense “traditionally associated with the ‘allegory of theologians.’” 
More pointedly, Barariski states: “Singleton’s definitions of allegory and 
symbolism bear his clear individual imprint” and he “employed both terms 
idiosyncratically and even anachronistically.” In fact, Barariski argues, 
“Singleton’s three books on Dante, for all their points of contact, do not, in 
effect, constitute a coherent and monolithic body of work.” The fact remains that 
“from about the end of the 1950s to the mid 1980s . . . Singleton (and his 
followers) dominated and defined the field of American Dante scholarship.” This 
phenomenon notwithstanding, “a majority of scholars continued to work outside 
the Singletonian paradigm,” which a number of scholars (for instance Bergin and 
Cambon; Scaglione and Wlassics) saw as too reductive. Within this context — 
Singletonians versus non-Singletonians — Barariski poignantly writes: “While 
Europeans teaching in America have at times not paid enough attention to what 
was being produced locally, American-educated scholars have tended to by-pass 
even Italy’s fundamental contributions to Dante studies.” In brief, for Barariski 
“Singletonianism” is “a complicated, even contradictory, phenomenon” whose 
success in America cannot be easily explained and owes a debt “to recognizably 
American intellectual and cultural traditions.” In agreement with Mazzotta’s 
analysis (“The American Criticism of Charles Singleton”), Barariski traces some 
of Singleton’s concepts to William Torrey Harris, George Santayana, and T. S. 
Eliot. 

Paralleling in many ways Barariski’s analysis, Steven Botterill follows, 
however, a different route: he seeks to trace the development of American 
scholarship on Dante through the scrutiny of the official publication of The 
Dante Society of America. He writes: “The 1950s were, beyond question, the 
Singleton years, as far as the Annual Report of the Dante Society was 
concerned.” In an attempt to extract a few fundamental principles from 
Singleton’s work, Botterill quotes Giuseppe Mazzotta, who writes: 
“{Singleton’s] theological reading of the Vita nuova; the formulation of the 
allegory of theologians and of the Biblical exodus as the fundamental structure of 
the Divine Comedy; the distinction between Dante-character and Dante-poet as a 
dialectical play on which rests the articulation of the text; the principle of 
retrospection, that is, the Augustinian idea that the sense of a poem or a life 
comes to light only at its conclusion; and, finally, the splendid discovery of 
number symmetries at the poem’s center” (“The American Criticism of Charles 
Singleton” 28). Botterill goes on: “It is perhaps worth saying . . . that the 
universal validity of many of these principles remains open to question, 
especially when, as often happens, later writers on Dante use them with less tact 
and intelligence than Singleton himself invariably displayed.” As we shall see, 
virtually each of these principles has been, if not challenged, certainly brought 
into rigorous critical scrutiny.> 


5 Botterill presents additional interpretive concepts proposed by Singleton, concepts which, in 


An Introductory Essay 9 


While tracing, through Dante Studies, the appropriation and dissemination 
of Singleton’s principles by a later generation of scholars, Botterill recognizes as 
“(floremost” “Singleton’s own pupil John Freccero”: “The story of Freccero’s 
own career is, in part, that of a growth away from the Singletonian model (as a 
chronological reading of the articles collected in his magisterial Dante: The 
Poetics of Conversion [1986] clearly demonstrates); but it should be noted that 
the most significant American Dantist of the 1970s and 1980s was a crucial 
figure, from the earliest phase of his published career, in the communication and, 
so to speak, canonization of Singleton’s thinking and methods” (Botterill 5-6).® 

While, as Botterill suggests, the 1970s and 1980s were a sort of 
“canonization of Singleton’s thinking and methods,” the Singletonian principles 
did not go unchallenged. For instance, Singleton and some of his closest 
disciples, were called upon to clarify the relationship between the Singletonian 
allegorical reading and Auerbach’s figural interpretation.’ Scholars whose 
primary interests were outside Italian studies, or whose education had taken place 
wholly or partly in Europe, were especially likely to be critical of Singleton’s 
approach to Dante.® 


Botterill’s view, require a careful and balanced reading: “The ‘theological’ reading of the Vita 
nuova ... capable of seriously distorting the nature and function of secular themes and poetics 
in Dante’s youthful /ibello (just as the theological reading of the Commedia tends to do with the 
poem’s debt to classical culture and its interest in socio-political reality)”; “concentration on 
the ‘allegory of theologians’ as the foundation for a comprehensive reading of the Commedia 
risks underestimating the complexity of Dante’s poetics”; “the widespread and largely 
unquestioning acceptance in America of Dante’s authorship of the Letter to Can Grande, 
arguably the single most damaging exegetical shibboleth in contemporary Dante studies, is 
ultimately traceable to Singleton’s authority.)”; “The character-poet distinction frequently 
needs to be refined”; “the identification of number symmetries at the poem’s center (or anywhere 
else), for all the fascinating parallels and resonances it can evoke, too often founders on stem 
historical reality: . . . an oral performance of the Commedia.” In the issue of Dante Studies 
which appeared in memoriam of Singleton, Dante Della Terza (as he had also done in Forma e 
memoria 87-90) outlines some of Singleton’s chief themes and critical perspectives: “an 
intense and direct dialogue with the poem itself” (11); “attracting the reader within the frame of 
his [Singleton’s] explorations” (12); “both Augustinian trends . . . stressing the importance of 
allegorical reading . . . and the other emphasizing the irreversible value of the letter” (14-15); 
the journey’s “anticipation of its final significance” (17); “Dante and the past, Dante and the 
classical world, Dante and the Patristic and Scholastic tradition” (20); and “a keen sensitivity 
for the Biblical heritage in Dante’s Commedia” (21). 
6 Della Terza also acknowledges Freccero as “Singleton’s most gifted student” while pointing 
out that the Augustinian “point of reference” present in Singleton is employed by Freccero, for 
instance, “to reread the episode of Ulysses in an Augustinian key” (21). 
7 Della Terza briefly refers to the relationship between Auerbach and Singleton in his 
commemorative essay (22). Even such scholars as Bloom, who dealt only marginally with 
Dante (see Colilli’s essay in this issue), saw a direct line joining Singleton with Auerbach (Ruin 
the Sacred Truths 38-50). 

As an illustration of the first group, Quinones writes: “Even Singleton’s preeminence requires 
some qualifications. To be sure, Singleton was a leading American dantista, but the paradoxical 


10 Dino S. Cervigni 


In the essays presented thus far, the name of Freccero has often emerged, 
invariably linked with that of Singleton but also with that of Auerbach. To help 
the reader better formulate an opinion on Freccero’s work, I would rather not 
quote Italianists, whose assessment already is a matter of record, but an eminent 
“outsider” to Italian studies, Harold Bloom. First of all, Bloom sees a line 
conjoining Singleton and Freccero with Auerbach — a connection Freccero 
argued against (Della Terza 22) — and specifies this connection’s essence as “the 
theological Dante of contemporary American criticism, the Dante of Erich 
Auerbach, Charles Singleton, and John Freccero” (Ruin the Sacred Truths 38). 
Bloom, who “would find it difficult to read Dante” “[w]ithout Freccero,” sees 
“two quite distinct Frecceros: “One is the continuator of Auerbach and Singleton. 
. .. The other, whom I follow, takes a Nietzschean, agonistic view of Dante. . . 
.” Bloom speaks up against “the theological Dante” (39). Contrary to Auerbach 
and Singleton, who refuse “the temporal anguish of literary history” (43), 
“Freccero, student of Singleton and disciple of Auerbach, happily is prevented 
from vanishing utterly into their idealizing historicisms by his keen sense of the 
agonistic basis of Dante’s actual poetics, a sense in which Curtius is Freccero’s 
precursor. Freccero’s Singletonian emphasis upon a ‘poetics of conversion’ 
misrepresents, to a surprising degree, his own praxis as a critic of Dante... 
(44). To be sure, not one of these three critics escapes Bloom’s critique. For 
instance, in Inferno 10 Farinata’s “splendor has little to do with the allegory of 
the theologians, as that is simply not an available mode for us any longer, 
despite Auerbach’s devotion to figura, Singleton’s passion for Thomas Aquinas, 
and Freccero’s reliance upon Augustine as the inventor of the novel of the self” 
(45). Nor do the followers of Auerbach, Singleton, and Freccero fare any better 
than their mentors: “Unfortunately, the readers of all three critics sometimes 
seem to have learned to read Dante precisely as they would read theology. A 
distorted emphasis upon doctrine is the unhappy result, and soon readers forget 
the insight of Curtius, which is that Dante’s Beatrice is the central figure in a 
purely personal gnosis. . . . The Comedy is not an allegory of the theologians, 
but an immense trope of pathos and power, the power of the singular individual 
who was Dante” (46). Shortly after this statement, Bloom focuses once again on 
Freccero: “The Comedy, for all its learning, is not deeply involved in the Bible, 
and I doubt John Freccero’s learned contention ‘that we are to regard Dante’s 
entire spiritual autobiography as essentially Augustinian in structure.’ Freccero 
has enormous authority for me, but Dante’s poem, as Curtius saw, is a spiritual 
testament more in the manner of Joachim of Flora than in that of Augustine. . . 


truth remains that he exerted no primary influence on me or on my peers. Our own critical 
formation was beholden to a much larger world of literary and cultural expectations and values . . 
.” (Review148-49). Critical of Singleton’s allegory of theologians as applied in Hollander’s 
Allegory in Dante's Commedia is Cherchi, a scholar who was educated in Italy, Spain, and at the 
University of Califomia at Berkeley. 


An Introductory Essay 11 


. Spiritual autobiography, whether in Augustine, Rousseau, or Wordsworth, 
patiently awaits the fullness of time and does not seek an end to history. 
Prophecy batters at history and has a tendency to turn apocalyptic, to hasten the 
end” (47). Bloom’s words, although they are an outsider’s voice or precisely 
because of it, invite readers of Dante to reflect furihes over some elements of 
contemporary Dante criticism.? 

Just as, in this issue, Quinones seeks to identify the influences exercised on 
modern American Dante criticism by Modernism’s “maggiori muse,” in another 
essay that appeared in Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and 
Interpretation he takes issue with statements concerning Singleton’s influence in 
the 1950s and 1960s and with any ongoing attempts to “institutionalize” a 
continued Singletonian presence. In a review of Anthony K. Cassell’s 
monograph on the first canto of the Inferno — the first in a series entitled 
Lectura Dantis Americana — Quinones addresses not only, and perhaps not even 
primarily, Cassell’s book, but rather the project itself of a Lectura Dantis 
Americana that Cassell’s book inaugurates, according to the book’s foreword by 
Hollander, the Editor-in-Chief of this series, who emphasizes the debt of Dante 
scholarship to Singleton. To be sure, Quinones objects to some of Cassell’s 
readings, especially what he describes as a “demotion” of Virgil (146). Quinones 
also links Cassell’s view of Virgil to Hollander’s (particularly in his // Virgilio 
dantesco: tragedia nella Commedia), while contrasting it with Singleton’s, who 
writes in his commentary on Jnferno 1: “Virgil died a pagan, with no burden of 
actual or personal sin . . .” (Singleton, ad loc.; Quinones 146 in n.).!° Quinones 
takes issue not so much with the attempt “to bring out single volumes of 
extended commentary on each of Dante’s one hundred cantos,” although such a 
project “does represent some kind of challenge to the gods” (147), but more 
directly with the implied idea that there may be “an American reading” (148) 
which is worth pursuing and privileging. This American reading, which 
Quinones calls “provincialism” (148), is one again linked, via Hollander’s 
foreword to Cassell’s book, to Singleton. Robert Hollander writes in the same 
foreword: “But it remains true that Singleton’s focusing of the debate over 


9 For a dissenting voice see Mastrobuono in his recent Dante’s Journey of Sanctification: “A 
Book Twenty-five Years in the Making” (212-79). 

10 Singleton comments on /nferno 1:125-26, “Perch’i’ fu’ ribellante”: “As the poem is to make 
abundantly clear, Virgil died a pagan, with no burden of actual or personal sin, only with that of 
original sin. This is true also of the other virtuous pagans of antiquity soon to be met in Limbo: 
‘They did not sin . . . and if they were before Christianity, they did not worship God aright’ (Inf. 
4: 34; 37-38). Only in this sense can Virgil mean that he rebelled against God’s law. It was not 
given to such pagans as Virgil to believe in the Christ who was to come; hence, they are forever 
denied the blessedness of Heaven.” By saying that “It was not given to such pagans as Virgil to 
believe in the Christ who was to come,” Singleton opens up the issue of the gratuity of God’s 
grace, an issue which comes up prominently in Paradiso 20. On this see Picone, “La ‘viva 
speranza’ di Dante.” 


12 Dino S. Cervigni 


Dante’s mode of meaning became crucial in the self-definition of the next 
generation of American Dantisti, whether they welcomed or decried the positions 
taken by Singleton. And there seems to be little reason to believe that the 
immediate future will witness any significant movement away from a criticism 
grounded in concerns issuing from this vision of the poem’s central mode of 
signifying” (“Foreword” X). Within this context, Quinones questions whether 
“future Dante criticism must be so indentured to Singleton that one hundred 
volumes over the next twenty-five years are obliged to carry on a working 
engagement with his legacy” (148).!! In fact, Quinones states: “To establish 
Singleton as such a way station is to run the risk of converting him into a 
roadblock. In this way, then, the ‘Lectura Dantis Americana’ is a decisive step 
backward, indeed a regressive movement” (149). Accordingly, Quinones’s 
welcomes “a healthy amnesia,” which “might be a good thing” (149). 

The analysis of Singleton’s work is further developed by Rocco Montano, 
who focuses on Singleton’s commentary on the Commedia. Educated in Italy 
and until recently a member of American academe, Montano’s criticism of 
Singleton’s commentary addresses general as well as specific issues. Montano 
believes that Singieton’s commentary often provides inappropriate quotations 
(for instance of Virgil, Saint Thomas, etc.) and leaves too much unsaid, 
primarily about what kind of person is Dante and what kind of poem is the 
Commedia: More specifically, for Montano Singleton disregards the aesthetic 
aspects of the Commedia, a disregard which he sees mirrored in the prose 
translation (“prosa uniforme, scolorita”); the commentary fails to point out 
Dante’s development or differences from such works as the Convivio and the 
Monarchia, and does not distinguish between Dante the character, who is a 
sinner, and Dante the poet. Also, Singleton’s allegory of theologians remains 
unclarified.!2 

The following essay by David Robey marks the volume’s transition from a 
preeminent focus on the Singletonian era to one less dominated by, although not 
totally free from, Singleton’s influence. According to David Robey, editor of 
Structuralism: An Introduction and co-editor of Modern Literary Theory: A 
Comparative Introduction, post-structuralism has not affected profoundly 
American Dante criticism. Nevertheless, for Robey some studies “combine more 
conventional methods with a partial assimilation of post-structuralism,” such as 


Il 4 similar, almost identical, recognition of Singleton’s importance in American Dante 
criticism is likewise made by the two authors of the second volume of Lectura Dantis America, 
Rachel Jacoff and William A. Stephany. 

12 An illuminating essay on Montano’s work on Dante is Caserta’s “Gli studi danteschi di 
Rocco Montano.” Montano’s critique addresses primarily Singleton’s commentary of the 
Commedia. One of Montano’s students, Mastrobuono, has recently questioned some of 
Singleton’s theological concepts at the basis of his approach to Dante (“Preface” v). 
Mastrobuono’s book takes to task also, among others, Freccero, Mazzotta, and Della Terza (see 
“Preface” vii-xiii). 


An Introductory Essay 13 


some writings by Harold Bloom (The Anxiety of Influence; Ruin the Sacred 
Truths), John Freccero (Dante: The Poetics of Conversion), Gayatri Chakravorty 
Spivak (“Finding Feminist Readings: Dante/Yeats”), A. R. Shoaf (Dante, 
Chaucer and the Currency of the Word), Teodolinda Barolini (Dante's Poets. 
Textuality and Truth in the Comedy), Susan Noakes (“Intertextuality and Dante’s 
Antithetical Hypersign,” and Timely Readings. Between Exegesis and 
Interpretation), and Robert P. Harrison (The Body of Beatrice). Robey also finds 
similarities and dissimilarities between the American studies he focuses on and 
the studies of such Italian scholars as Cesare Segre and Maria Corti. Although 
they all evince “the eclectic combination of structuralism or post-structuralism 
with a traditional scholarly approach, and . . . the alliance of semiotics and 
philology,” Robey sees a “greater tension in the American combination.” Hence 
derive further traits peculiar to those American studies: “post-structuralism offers 
a greater challenge to traditional scholarship”; “the American combination is 
theoretically rather messy” but it also produces “more stimulating,” “more 
controversial criticism,” and “a continuing exchange of ideas, an ongoing 
academic debate in which critical theory plays an important part, but without 
dominating the discussion.” Finally, Robey views as beneficial “the vigorous 
profusion of rival schools that characterizes the present American critical scene” 
and its “comparative perspective.” Robey’s concluding note focuses on a brief 
comparison between the British and the American university systems: the latter, 
in Robey’s opinion, has been enhanced by its broad coursework requirements, its 
interest in recent development of critical theory, and its employment of a 
comparative approach.!3 

As one might have expected, those voices that were “marginalized” during 
the Singletonian era, but never totally silenced, have been heard more openly 
lately. What now counts is not just to trace the history of their marginalization 
or silencing but much more to be able to hear their message. And this is one of 
the goals of Ad/ 1990. An overall critique of Singleton’s approach to Dante — a 
critique which appears clearly in some articles (Barariski) and is implicit in 
others (Barolini; Robey; Cachey) — considers his “theological” position. 
Barolini proposes to “detheologize” Dante studies; Robey points out rhetoric’s 
and history’s absence from some post-structuralist studies; Bloom also takes to 
task Auerbach’s, Singleton’s, and Freccero’s theological approach. 

The three essays that follow advance the previous investigation into the 


13 The uplifting tone of Robey’s assessment of the Americans’ employment of post- 
structuralism in Dante criticism should not make us forget his harsher criticism of Tambling’s 
book and of Kirkpatrick’s Dante’s Inferno that has appeared in Comparative Criticism: “both 
[books] represent interesting projects, and from Tambling’s as well as Kirkpatrick’s there is 
much to be learnt. Yet both seem to me seriously deficient in two areas which, I hope, will be 
vital to the future of literary studies: history and rhetoric” (269). Additional studies could be 
quoted to illustrate the role of post-structuralism in American Dante scholarship and its 
“healthy” mixing with traditional trends, particularly Mazzotta’s Dante: Poet of the Desert. 


14 Dino S. Cervigni 


present status of Dante criticism in America. Paul Colilli, in his “Harold Bloom 
and the Post-theological Dante,” makes his way through Bloom’s writings in an 
attempt not only to piece together what Bloom writes about Dante but also to 
outline the ways in which Bloom “uses” Dante for his theory. To begin with, 
for Bloom, “Dante was free of any sense of anxiety vis-a-vis Vergil,” a view that 
circumvents the “violence of temporal anxiety” and works “within a mode of 
consonance.” Thus Colilli points out that “Bloom’s theory is an attempt to 
explain how later poets counter the aggression of their predecessors by means of 
a contrived form of desecration, expressed through the art of misreading.” Within 
this general context, Bloom argues against Auerbach and Singleton. In fact, for 
Bloom, “No later poet can be the fulfilment of an earlier poet”; hence, in 
Colilli’s interpretation of Bloom, “the figural interpretation is nothing more 
than a pious self-deception founded on the belief that poetic influence is a form 
of benign fulfilment.” Again: “Texts do not fulfill each other, rather they are lies 
against each other and against time.” Consequently, Bloom — Colilli 
emphasizes — excludes “theology from the economy of Dante’s poetics” and 
substitutes “‘a figura entrenched in the allegory of the theologians with a figura 
which is a modern configuration of Gnostic allegory and owes its articulation to 
Freud.” In assessing Bloom’s concern with Dante, Colilli submits that Bloom’s 
shortcoming lies in his rejection of the historic-theological elements of the 
Commedia. Given some contributors’ concern with detheologizing Dante, what 
Colilli writes in his concluding paragraph is worth emphasizing. Although 
Bloom “has unquestionably intuited the path toward a post-theological Dante . . 
. he has not fully explored it. . . . De-theologization does not exact the 
discarding of religion’s relevance from Dante since a supranatural belief system 
floods the entire poem. To read Dante ‘post-theologically’ means to employ an 
interpretive strategy that does not privilege attempts to reconcile and harmonize 
the Comedy with a religious canon.” Colilli thus sides with Bloom in excluding 
the Auerbach-Singleton tradition, but he also objects to Bloom’s rejection of 
history and theology. He then proposes an alternative which is “in tune with the 
ironic forma mentis of the postmodern condition”; namely, to cast aside “this 
fallacy about theology and theologians” and to approach Dante’s text “with an 
appropriate measure of Bloom’s critical sensibility in mind.” 

In his “Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Modern American Translation of 
the Commedia,” Theodore J. Cachey sets out to review translations of Dante’s 
Commedia which have appeared during the last decade, focusing on those by 
Mark Musa and Allen Mandelbaum. Cachey further develops previous works on 
translation by Angelina La Piana, Werner Friedrich, Gilbert Cunningham, and 
William De Sua. In addition to specific analyses of the last decade’s most 
prominent translations of the Commedia, Cachey provides a theoretical 
framework for translation, which traditionally is situated between hermeneutics 
and poetics. Cachey’s motto is, as it were, Dante’s statement in the Convivio: 
“nulla cosa per legame musaico armonizzata si pud de la sua loquela in altra 


An Introductory Essay js 


transmutare, senza rompere tutta sua dolcezza e armonia” (Convivio 1.7: 14). 
Hence Cachey states: “Dante’s preventive theoretical assertion of 
untranslatability is proved historically in the Anglo-American tradition by the 
apparently infinite translatability of the Commedia.” Accordingly, while tracing 
the theoretical framework for translation through a historical excursus, Cachey 
points out that the “translator of the Commedia, in the choice of prose, blank 
verse or terza rima, locates the translation . . . between hermeneutic and poetic 
poles of re-presentation.” Terza rima translations — Cachey points out — 
dominated during the first half of the century until World War II (Binyon and 
Bickersteth). After “Binyon’s modernist mode of terza rima translation,” Sayers 
and Ciardi “inherited the modernist attachment to terza rima” but, in Cachey’s 
view, the latter two “betrayed the basic ideological premise of a modernist terza 
rima translation of the Commedia.” Cachey thus emphasizes that the decline in 
Dante’s poetic fortune coincided with a Renaissance in Dante American studies, 
which was inaugurated by Singleton, who separated “hermeneutics from poetics” 
and severed “‘all ties from the modernist Dante.” Singleton’s prose translation of 
the Commedia is thus viewed by Cachey as a deliberate preference for 
hermeneutics over poetics. Singleton’s option for prose has not excluded blank 
verse translations. On the contrary, for Cachey, Musa’s and Mandelbaum’s 
translations “reflect the exigencies of the American Renaissance of Dante 
criticism and the contemporary emphasis on hermeneutic values.” At this point, 
Cachey, making his own what The Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics 
writes on blank verse, comments that “blank verse translations then 
fundamentally alter the original formal terms of the poem’s relationship to its 
tradition in the original Italian.” Finally, Cachey, on the one hand, wonders 
(following Carne-Ross) whether poetic translations of the Commedia today are 
advisable or possible and, on the other, he ponders the poem’s infinite 
translatability. In fact — Cachey concludes — “Consistent with his [Dante’s] 
claim that the poem was an extension of the Holy Writ, the poem’s ultimate 
untranslatability is the condition of its infinite translatability in historical 
terms.” 

The next essay by Marina de Fazio, “Dante Studies: A Decade of American 
Dissertations (1980-89),” not only provides a useful research tool for students 
and scholars, it also confirms statements and suggestions submitted by the 
previous contributors while further delineating the direction of contemporary 
Dante scholarship in America. The number itself of dissertations dealing with 
Dante either entirely (20) or partially (106) suggests the vitality of Dante studies 
in all institutions granting a Ph.D. in Italian as well as the widespread interest in 
related disciplines: Dante’s culture and sources; art and technique; the rhetorical 
process; the interpolated sonnet; epic; autobiography or the poetics of 
conversion; the underworld; the representation of women; the influence of Dante 
in Italy (from the Middle Ages to the twentieth century) and abroad (with a 
particular emphasis on English literature, especially Chaucer and T. S. Eliot, but 


16 Dino S. Cervigni 


also for other European literatures and American literature). 
In brief, this issue’s first section provides a picture of Dante studies in 
America which is diverse, fertile, and controversial. 


*x 


The second area of essays focuses mostly on Dante’s so called minor works 
within a wide context that will lead to further investigations. 

Robert P. Harrison reflects on the import of the “phenomenological 
approach” he employed in his study of the Vita nuova, entitled The Body of 
Beatrice. Phenomenology — Harrison expounds — “asks about the genesis of 
the phenomenon,” seeks to determine “the modes of givennes by which the 
phenomenon reveals itself as what it is,” emphasizes “a quest for revelation with 
regard to the phenomenon,” and points to the peculiarity of the libello’s 
conclusion: “the libello ends before the quest does.” Thus one of Harrison’s 
goals “‘is to restore to the libello its enigmatic quality, its imaginary and literary 
density, its extraordinary textual difficulty, its pockets of silence and its refusal 
to yield all of its secrets.” Here then lies the difference between Harrison’s 
phenomenological approach and “creative philology” (exemplified by Domenico 
De Robertis) and “creative theology” (exemplified by Charles S. Singleton): 
“Philology is a search for positive certitudes”; “Theology is a search for ultimate 
order.” By contrast, phenomenology, which also is a search, “seeks to determine 
the modes by which something gives itself in presence, or takes itself away in 
absence.” For Harrison, “theology remains an important dimension of its [the 
Vita nuova’s] phenomenology” just as much as philology, since “the Vita nuova 
is rooted in a local historical and literary context.” But the libello’s 
phenomenological quest “‘cannot be reduced” to either theology or philology, for 
the Vita nuova transcends the finite nature of time and leaves unexplained the 
“genetic” secret of Beatrice.!4 

While following a different approach, Albert Russell Ascoli focuses on 
most minor works, particularly the De vulgari eloquentia. His main premise is 
that Dante’s works should not be read (as often is the case) “as steps along the 
way to the sacro poema,” but rather “on their own terms.” He thus proceeds to 
discuss issues concerning “Historicity and Authority,” “Vernacular and 
Grammar,” “Individuality and Universality,” and the “Poet’s Language.” For 
Ascoli, Dante seeks “‘to create for himself and his work a space outside of 
(between and/or above) the usual hierarchy of political and intellectual authorities 


14 Th relation to the Vita nuova, a special issue of Texas Studies in Literature and Language, 

edited by Wallace, commemorates Beatrice’s death. The volume’s nine essays deal with the 
implications connected with the Vita nuova’s chronology and possible rifacimento, the 
libello’s social, political and public character, questions of gender and of “finding the center” in 
the Vita nuova, and finally the fortunes of Beatrice beyond the /ibello. 


An Introductory Essay 17 


... by claiming a direct, ‘prophetic,’ even ‘scriptural,’ authorization from God.” 
Hence derives a split between the “two Dantes”: “pilgrim/poet, 
author/commentator, poetry/prose, and so on, as well as the epistemological and 
ontological categories that go with them (philosophy/theology, nature/grace, and 
so on).” Discussing “Vernacular and Grammar,” Ascoli submits that the “‘logic’ 
of the De vulgari eloquentia is the logic of Dante’s desire to reconcile the 
contingent ‘necessities’ of historical reality . . . with culturally mandated 
definitions of poetic auctoritas as impersonal, ancient, and non-vernacular.” Such 
a desire on Dante’s part, then, creates “elisions, contradictions, and ambiguities”: 
“a complex rhetorical strategy that must collapse the opposition between 
‘vernacular’ and ‘grammar,’ Dante and the Latin auctores, without admitting that 
it is doing so and thereby discrediting itself completely.” Next, in his attempt to 
define Dante’s position on language, Ascoli focuses on “Individuality and 
Universality,” an opposition which “plays a crucial role in the definition and 
defense of the vernacular situation of Dante himself as individual author and of 
the language which is finally ‘proper’ to him alone.” After discussing and 
developing this opposition, Ascoli writes: “At worst, Dante is in danger of 
seeming to be a Nimrod who equates himself and his works with Deity. At best, 
his relation to the ‘vulgare illustre’ is deeply ambivalent. . . .” Finally, in the 
section on “The Poet’s Language,” Ascoli analyzes the ways in which Dante 
confronts the problem of conferring nobility and thence authority on vernacular 
language, whose two poles are “naturalness” (applicable to the vernacular) and 
“unchangeability” (applicable to Latin). For Ascoli, in the De vulgari eloquentia 
just as in the Commedia, Dante “adapts rational absolutes and theological 
categories to contingent circumstances.” In the masterpiece, however, Dante 
removes his poetic art’s macule of historicity and personality by “grounding 
them in the authority of the divine Author himself.” Thus, Ascoli concludes, 
Dante “perversely” turns “the earlier prose works [Convivio and De vulgari 
eloquentia] into a palinode of the ‘sacro poema.’” Ascoli’s essay is linked with 
an earlier contribution on “The Vowels of Authority,” which further clarifies and 
strengthens his present discussion of authority. With all its implications with 
history and authority, vernacular and Latin, individuality and universality, 
including also Dantean poetry’s truthfulness and allegorical method, Ascoli 
probes many fundamental questions of Dante criticism which will be further 
expanded by his ongoing inquiry. 

Mario Trovato’s contribution on “Dante’s Poetics of Good: From 
Phenomenology to Integral Realism” traces the notion of the bonum throughout 
most of Dante’s minor works as well as the Commedia. Trovato points out that 
Dante seeks to conceptualize the bonum even before the Convivio, in the Vita 
nuova. It is here in fact that the narrator-protagonist begins his quest for 
something which cannot fail him, a supreme and transcendental good (see the 
visions in Vita nuova 41 and 42). The donna gentile episode signals a 
philosophical and poetic crisis: Dante, confronted by the earthly bonum and the 


18 Dino S. Cervigni 


supernatural bonum, discards the former and opts for the latter. Trovato sees this 
confrontation between the earthly and the supernatural bonum commence in the 
Vita nuova and intensify in the rhymes. Dante succeeds in harmonizing the two 
forms of bonum after his studies at the Franciscan and Dominican schools. The 
Convivio reflects such a newly achieved concept of the bonum. Accordingly, 
through correcting the Bonaventurian, phenomenological conception which 
prevails in the Vita nuova and the Sigerian, Averroistic view which prevails in 
the doctrinal canzoni, in the Convivio Dante represents the donna gentile with a 
twofold attribute: eyes, or knowledge, and smile, or faith. The De vulgari 
eloquentia integrates such a conception of the bonum with Dante’s poetics, for 
poetry conflates the bonum and the pulchrum. Consequently, the Commedia, as 
the ultimate representation of such a conception, condemns the absence of the 
bonum from the world and represents its supreme realization. In brief, for 
Trovato the donna gentile is the bonum viewed as the object of love from a 
threefold perspective: in the Vita nuova she is seen as the appearance (“vanita”) 
of the good and the beautiful; in the doctrinal rhymes the dona gentile is enjoyed 
by the poet as an intellectual pursuit; in the Convivio she is human and divine 
knowledge, the object of both knowledge and faith. Thus the donna gentile, 
while correcting the Beatrice of the Vita nuova, does not reject her, for she 
remains the symbol of the supreme beatitude. The Convivio therefore is not a 
document of Dante’s breaking away from Beatrice but rather of his realization 
that only through knowledge and faith can one experience “quel piacere altissimo 
di beatitudine, lo quale @ massimo bene in Paradiso.” Hence also derives for 
Trovato the conception of the poeta rectitudinis and of the poetics of the 
honestum-bonum-pulchrum which lies at the basis of the Commedia. 

By a striking coincidence, the next essay by John A. Scott, “Dante and 
Philosophy,” argues in favor of Trovato’s conclusion. For Scott, the view, 
proposed primarily by John Freccero and Robert Hollander, that the Commedia 
“represents a rejection on the author’s part of his earlier ‘flirtation’ with 
philosophy and that the poem is to be seen as a palinode or recantation of what 
he had expressed with such passionate enthusiasm in the Convivio” is erroneous. 
Scott marshals arguments from the Convivio and the Monarchia as well as from 
medieval theologians and philosophers (primarily Albert the Great and Thomas 
Aquinas) to support his thesis: “it is faith that saves us from eternal damnation 
and brings us to eternal life; it was God who endowed human beings with 
reason.” Again: “To posit a radical conflict between the Convivio and the 
Comedy is not only to distort Dante’s thought in both works, it is also to 
falsify his place in the history of Western thought.” In fact, quoting Thomas 
Aquinas, Scott argues that there cannot be any opposition between faith and 
natural certainty. In concluding, Scott once again objects to Hollander’s “claim 
that it is the love of philosophy that Dante rejects” in Purgatorio 2, favors a 
“traditional (and obvious, therefore convincing) interpretation of Cato’s words”; 
namely, that the scoglio “is surely the impedimentum of sin, which has to be 


An Introductory Essay 19 


cast off on the mount.” 


ee 


The third area of inquiry focuses on the Commedia. Paolo Valesio’s essay, “La 
vena ermetica nella Commedia,” continues, from a different perspective, 
Trovato’s and Scott’s investigations into the relationship of philosophy and 
theology in the Commedia. Valesio emphasizes the poetic nature of the 
“tension” that emanates from this philosophical and theological dynamic. Hence 
derives the overall development of Valesio’s discussion: “dalla confusione delle 
filosofie (che @ anche una confusione esistenziale) |’ Alighieri si volge, cioé si 
converte, alla verita come essa é illuminata dall’ortodossia cristiana.” From this 
premise, Valesio proceeds to a discussion of those themes in the Commedia 
which in his opinion link the text to the hermetic and exoteric tradition: 
“initiation,” which becomes a conversion; the references to Aeneas, Saint Paul, 
and the prophet Elijah; the Dantean invention of the theory of the aerial bodies; 
etc. For Valesio, the Commedia evinces a tension between “una teologia 
fantasmatica, di tipo esoterico” and “una teologia metafisica, saldamente 
rincalzata . . . dagli autori pit autorevoli.” Valesio’s analysis of the “poetic 
tension” and of the hermetic and exoteric elements pervading the Commedia 
emphasizes its hermeneutical complexities. 

Wlassics’s essay also proposes the text’s difficulty and polysemy. The 
critic’s starting point is that “Words have no sense, contexts do.” Hence derives, 
given a multiple contextualization, the text’s ambiguity. In fact — Wlassics 
contends — “multiple contextualization is a generally ascertainable element of 
poetry.” From these premises Wlassics proceeds to argue against a prevailing 
critical praxis directed at eliminating ambiguities and thence many of the text’s 
possible meanings. Some of Wlassics’s examples are the best known cruces of 
the Commedia: Inf. 33:75, “‘Poscia, pit! che ’! dolor, poté ’1 digiuno’”; /nf. 
5:102, “‘e ’1 modo ancor m’offende’”; Inf. 10:63, “‘forse cui Guido vostro ebbe a 
disdegno’”; etc. Wlassics’s argument in favor of textual ambiguity is supported 
— he writes — by the realization that the Middle Ages is “the age par excellence 
devoted to a ‘layered’ understanding of all texts: think of the obsessive practice of 
allegorical interpretation.” In all instances, therefore, ambiguity and polysemy 
engage the reader without excluding the author. After all the author is the 
privileged reader, since it is he who decided to leave ambiguity and polysemy in 
his own text. Wlassics’s article on ambiguity and polysemy shares some of the 
concems of the formalist approach to literature.!> 

In the next essay, “Narrative and Style in Lower Hell,” Teodolinda Barolini 


15 For Hawkes, in Structuralism and Semiotics, “a ‘poetic’ use of a word makes ambiguity a 
notable feature of its performance, and it is this that alters its structural role from that of 
signifier to that of signified” (64). 


20 Dino S. Cervigni 


deals with Inferno 18-34 from a formalist perspective. She views the formalist 
approach she proposes as an alternative to the Singleton’s theological approach. 
In fact, all of Barolini’s studies of Dante, from her major work to date (Dante’s 
Poets: Textuality and Truth in the Comedy) to this essay, can be viewed as an 
attempt, and an illustration of the ways how, to “detheologize” Dante. She 
approaches this critical problem in her “Detheologizing Dante: For a ‘New 
Formalism’ in Dante Studies.” In her view, the fundamental questions for all 
readers of the Commedia are: “How are we to respond to the poet’s insistence 
that he is telling us the truth?” and: “Did Dante himself believe in the literal 
truth of those things for which he claims literal truth?” (“Detheologizing Dante” 
36). In tracing the history of these issues, Barolini focuses on Croce (“his 
disgust with deracinated allegorizing,” hence Croce’s “dichotomized theologus- 
poeta” 39), on Nardi (according to whom “Dante considered his own experience 
one such visione verace” 35), and on Singleton, whose defense of the allegory of 
theologians for the Commedia has created “no consensus — merely, in North 
America, an undiscussed and acritical assumption of allegiance to Charles S. 
Singleton’s beliefs” (37). Singleton’s allegory of theologians is intimately 
dependent upon the authenticity of the epistle to Can Grande. Barolini 
comments: “The linking of the Epistle to the issue of the Commedia’s mode of 
signifying has had the unfortunate effect of allowing the question of the Epistle’s 
authorship to seem decisive for our reading of the poem. This skewing of the 
critical discourse is implicit in Singleton’s contribution” (40).!© And again in 
Barolini’s view, “by linking a tangential issue (the Epistle’s authorship) to the 
main issue (the Commedia’s mode of signifying) and then blurring the lines 
between the two, we have allowed the critical waters to become fearfully 
muddied” (41).!7 Barolini’s “Detheologizing Dante” presents a series of 
statements and suggestions. First, it proposes a shift from the “Epistle” to the 
Commedia in order to substantiate the allegory of the theologians: “I am 
convinced that the Commedia’s imitation of God’s way of writing, in defiance of 
all theological protocol, does not require the Epistle to Cangrande or any other 
external document for its substantiation; the poem itself furnishes sufficient and 


16 How complex the entire problem conceming the Epistle is can be understood from Barolini’s 
synthesis of two opponents of Nardi’s position, Mazzoni and Padoan: “Padoan entered the fray 
on Mazzoni’s side, in that he undertakes to defend the authenticity of the entire epistle, but in 
Nardi’s cause: Nardi denies the authenticity of the second part of the Epistle because he believes 
that it promotes the idea of the Commedia as a mere fictio; Padoan sustains the Epistle’s 

authenticity because he believes exactly the opposite is true, i.e. that the expository part of the 
Epistle supports the idea of a Dante who intentionally supports his text’s literal sense as true” 
(“Detheologizing” 40). 

17 Here Barolini briefly deals with Dronke’s book, Dante and Medieval Poetic Traditions, in 

which “the author . . . inveighs against the . . . allegory of poets, which he believes ill serves 
the Commedia’s imaginative power’ (“Detheologizing” 41). 


An Introductory Essay 21 


incontrovertible evidence of how it wants to be read” (42).!8 In agreement with 
Barolini, I would like to propose that the Epistle’s authenticity, until its 
ultimate (whether possible or impossible) resolution, should be separated from 
the critic’s interpretation of the Commedia’s mode of signifying.!? To be more 
specific: insofar as the authenticity of the Epistle to Cangrande can neither be 
proved nor disporved, any debate whether the Commedia is written and should be 
read according to the allegory of the poets or the allegory of the theologians 
must rest on the text of the Commedia itself. Second, Barolini resumes, 
approvingly, “Singleton’s famous formula that ‘the fiction of the Divine 
Comedy is that it is not a fiction’” (Dante Studies 1 62), provided that it does 
not extend to the suggestion that Dante himself thought his poem a fiction” 
(43).29 For Barolini, ultimately, the Commedia is “‘a ‘non falso error,’ not a 
fiction that pretends to be true, but a fiction that IS true” (43). In the final part 
of her “Detheologizing Dante” (43-48), Barolini disassociates herself from most 
of the critics of whom she has, at least in part, spoken approvingly (Nardi and 
Singleton), as well as from others (Spitzer and Auerbach), and proposes to 
examine “the ways in which the text succeeds in presenting itself as true”; 
namely, she proposes what she calls “not a ‘new historicism,’ which is an 
effective tool vis-a-vis texts that have always been read as texts, i.e. as false, but 
a ‘new formalism’: a tool that will not run aground on the text’s presentation of 
itself as true. In other words, we must detheologize our reading if we are to 
understand what makes the theology stick” (46). Barolini’s contribution to this 
issue of Ad/ should be viewed as a textual demonstration of her formalistic 
approach. All of us are aware of the critical problems confronting formalism. 
Thus, for Jameson’s formalism, for instance, “Content is a function of literary 
form, not something separable from it, perceptible beyond it or through it. As 
Frederic Jameson argues, ‘a work only seems to have content: in reality it speaks 
only of its own coming into being, of its own construction’” (Jameson, The 
Prison House of Language 89, qtd. by Hawkes 67). If I see correctly Barolini’s 
position — preference of the “ways” Dante’s art works (=form) over the “what” 


18 Barolini goes on conceming the paternity of the Epistle: “By this I do not mean to say that I 
find the Epistle uninteresting; for the record, my sense of it is that it is Dante’s. But I do mean to 
say that its authorship, were the matter one day to be decided against Dante, need not in any way 
impinge on our reading of the Commedia” (42). An essay by Hall and Sowell (“Cursus in the Can 

Grande Epistle”) has prompted a comment by Barolini (“For the Record”) and a response by Hall 
and Sowell (“On Dante and Cursus). 

19 The same suggestion seems also to derive from Hall’s and Sowell’s analysis of the Epistle 

and their conclusion that it is not by Dante. 

9 For Singleton, “nothing within this poem ever declares that it is a fiction” (Dante Studies 1 
62). Barolini seems to go further, here distancing herself from Singleton and approaching 
Nardi. By contrast, Hollander, in Barolini’s view, “grafts onto Singleton’s perhaps deliberate 
reticence an ironic poet who ‘creates a fiction which he pretends to consider not to be literally 
fictitious, while at the same time contriving to share the knowledge with us that it is precisely 
fictional [“Dante Theologus-Poeta” 86]) (Barolini 43). 


22 Dino S. Cervigni 


(=content) — the issue remains how (if ever) one should link the study of the 
form with that of the content. Indeed, this is also the major preoccupation of 
those who objected and/or object to the development of formalism and all other 
critical schools connected with formalism: structuralism, semiotics, and post- 
structuralism. I believe that Barolini confronts this issue at the end of her essay. 
She asks: “We come back thus, at the end of the Inferno, to perhaps the 
canticle’s chief problematic, which I believe can best be resolved by realizing 
that it is at heart a narrative problematic. We could think that the (theological) 
problems raised by Dante’s (narrative) need to institutionalize difference: are the 
souls of upper hell in any absolute sense better than those lower down, any less 
damned?” Barolini’s answer is: “Ultimately, we must detheologize, and ask: How 
could a poet effectively represent absence without having established some 
presence to play against it?” Her conclusion therefore is that “By working 
relentlessly to situate us within his speculum, he seeks to reorient us: if we see 
things from inside, from within the Commedia’s possible world, then perhaps 
we will not notice that the laws that govern this ultimately textual universe are 
in fact less God’s laws than his own.” 

This section’s concluding essay is Christopher Kleinhenz’s “Biblical 
Citation in Dante’s Divine Comedy.” Kleinhenz’s concern is not just to 
determine the presence of the Bible in the text of the Commedia but rather to 
analyze “‘the dynamic interplay between the Divine Comedy and the Bible”; 
namely, a “poetics of citation,” which Kleinhenz describes as “Dante’s technique 
of evoking a particular word, verse, or passage in the Bible through the use of an 
exact or modified version of the Latin text or an Italian translation or paraphrase 
of the Vulgate within his own text.” Kleinhenz further specifies that such a 
poetics of citation not only invokes the Bible but “it also evokes the written and 
visual traditions that are attached to that specific text,” and it could also be called 
the “poetics of allusion” or the “poetics of reference” or the “poetics of 
authority.” In addition to the various types of biblical citations outlined above, 
Kleinhenz considers also ““Dante’s imitative prophetic voice which permeates the 
poem and gives it its special tone and character.” It is precisely this composite 
manner of understanding this poetics of citation — Kleinhenz argues — that 
“has truly enabled the Comedy to become a new Scripture, that ‘poema sacro / al 
quale ha posto mano e cielo e terra’ (Par. 25:1-2).” 


ee K 


This volume’s last three essays approach Dante within a comparative 
perspective. In “Dante and the Confessions of Augustine,” John Took focuses on 
what he claims has become “One of the most important features of modern 
American Dante criticism”: “its emphasis — notable in the work of, above all, 
John Freccero — on the Augustinian and Christian-existential aspect of Dante’s 
spirituality.” For Took, such an emphasis bears out Dante’s position(s) “within 


An Introductory Essay 23 


the spectrum of contemporary Christian Aristotelianism” and allows a “reading 
of the Divine Comedy in terms of becoming.” The merit of Took’s contribution 
lies in the punctilious recovery of Dantean motifs within a specific Augustinian 
context, from Monica’s dream vision in Confessiones 3.11 (related to Vita 
nuova 12.3-6) to Augustine’s faltering voice of confession in Confessiones 8.12 
(related to Purg. 30:85-99 and 31:16-21). Took concludes that “the Confessions 
was with Dante throughout his career,” from the Vita nuova to the Paradiso, 
providing the poet with motifs, structuring principles, and transcendental 
explanation for his subject matter. Most importantly — Took claims — through 
the Confessions “Dante came to understand, sympathise with, and dramatically 
to project the structures in this or that individual of being and of non-being, of 
existential triumph and tragedy. . . . an enquiry into the form and content of 
present consciousness, of the struggle here and now for a more consummate 
humanity.” 

In ‘“‘Dante in ynglissh’: The Prologue to the Legend of Good Women and 
Inf. 13,” R. A. Shoaf provides a great deal more than an intertextual analysis. 
Shoaf’s essay relies on some premises: Chaucer read Dante and made him present 
not just through some quotations but through “systems of quotation or allusion 
throughout the work” to the extent that Chaucer, who has a “Dantesque 
inflection” in his voice, could not “have invented and employed his own 
discourse without the precedent and the intervention of Dante.” For Shoaf, the 
Dantean and Chaucerian passages under scrutiny bear out the two poets’ concern 
with authority: Dante with Virgil’s, Chaucer with Dante’s. In both instances, 
the two poets resort to “interruption” in order to continue tradition; hence the 
text precedes the real, and the text is questioned through its interruption. The two 
poets’ ultimate issue involves authority (“a world of textual aprioris and the 
apriori text [or Scripture]”) and the structure of language which enables self- 
description: “both poets are common shapers of the structure of language for the 
redemption of individual subjectivity.” 

We all know that Dante’s influence went beyond influencing contemporaries 
like Chaucer. What we might not have imagined is Dante’s influence in the life 
of a contemporary of ours. In an essay on Kantorowicz’s life and his approach to 
Dante, Kay E. Schiller shows how Kantorowicz appropriated the past — 
primarily Dante’s idea of the empire — through a historical analysis enhanced by 
his own imagination. Schiller sees at the basis of Kantorowicz’s appropriation 
of Dante the German scholar’s conviction that Dante’s life resembled his own. 
Placed just before Giuseppe Mazzotta’s “Epilogue,” Schiller’s essay, therefore, 
may be viewed as an appropriate conclusion to this volume. Not only is Dante’s 
oeuvre engaging in a faraway country like the United States of America: a 
European exile saw in Dante’s life and ideas a model to imitate in order to give 
meaning to his own life. 

The volume’s last essay by Giuseppe Mazzotta, “An Epilogue,” is — just 
as its author states — neither “a conclusion” nor “a kind of final word or 


24 Dino S. Cervigni 


judgement,” but a reflection and a commentary from the vantage point of a 
scholar who has been, and still is, directly involved in the critical debate this 
issue has sought to analyze. To be sure, Mazzotta’a piece is also a critique: not 
so much of this volume’s individual essays but rather of any critical attempt to 
read Dante from a perspective which tends to be less than all-encompassing or 
encyclopedic. Since it is precisely Dante’s work itself that calls for the 
“totalizing” approach this issue as a whole has sought to pursue, I have 
welcomed Mazzotta’s commentary. 


ke KE 


AdlI 1990 discusses diverse and fundamental issues concerning contemporary 
Dante studies in America, ranging from history to post-structuralism, from 
theology to formalism, and from allegory to hermeneutics. Although not all 
issues that are currently engaging Dante studies are equally represented, this 
volume has endeavored to provide an forum for debate among scholars who 
practice different, at times divergent approaches to Dante. 

Many are the suggestions deriving from this debate. Historical 
investigations on Dante in America today should consider not only Singleton’s 
oeuvre (Baratiski; Botterill; Cachey; etc.) but also modernism (Quinones; Ross; 
Cachey). The line connecting Singleton with Auerbach needs further inquiry 
(Bloom; Barariski) and expansion to include Emerson (Mazzotta), Spitzer 
(Montano), Curtius (Bloom), Santayana (Barariski), etc. The concept of allegory 
as expounded by Singleton should be questioned (Barariski; Colilli; Bloom) also 
in light of more recent scholarship (for example: Picone; Placella).?! The essays 
in the second section propose a rather revisionistic approach to the Vita nuova 
(Harrison’s phenomenology) and a new and/or renewed emphasis on the concepts 
of historicity and authority derived primarily from the Convivio and the De 
vulgari eloquentia (Ascoli) and on the concept of bonum presented in the 
Convivio, the Vita nuova, and the Commedia (Trovato). Furthermore, the view 
of the Commedia as a palinode of the author’s earlier enthusiasm for philosophy 
is being questioned (Scott). With regard to the Commedia, issues of hermetism, 
polysemy, the poetics of citation, and the praxis of a formalistic approach are 
discussed and illustrated in the third section. Finally, this volume’s last section 
provides intertextual analyses which open new possibilities of research into 
relations between Dante and Augustine (Took), Dante and Chaucer (Shoaf), and 
Dante and a contemporary figure (Schiller). 

As the editor of this volume, my major concern has been to provide a 
picture of contemporary Dante scholarship in America as comprehensive as 


21 Concerming Dante’s allegory, see in Placella’s book ch. 3: “I presupposti biblici 
dell’esperienza cristiana e poetica di Dante: la particolare valenza esistenziale e spirituale della 
tropologia e dell’anagogia” (63-124). 


An Introductory Essay 25 


possible without deliberately excluding or marginalizing any voices, in 
accordance with the journal’s policy.” In assessing this volume’s contributions, 
I believe that two healthy modalities characterize contemporary Dante studies in 
America: tension and dynamism. By tension I mean that no single “school” 
dominates contemporary Dante scholarship in America and that in fact diverse 
critical approaches are at work with results that, although at times in seeming 
contradiction with each other, help achieve a better diversified and more 
comprehensive picture of Dante. This critical diversification’s end product is a 
less complacent and a more controversial scholarship. Such a tension is partly 
the cause of what I consider American Dante scholarship’s second healthy 
modality: its dynamism. Ultimately, so long as this scholarly debate unfolds as 
an open forum, without any attempts, extraneous to scholarly inquiry, to 
marginalize dissenting views, the debate’s arguments and critical approaches will 
be the only determining factors in Dante scholarship’s development in America. 

Most scholars agree that Dante studies should be pursued within a literary 
and cultural context as wide as possible, inclusive of the entire Middle Ages, as 
is obvious, but also of Western culture’s millenary history. Dante has become a 
common heritage of Western civilization. Nevertheless, his “Italian” origin 
should never be marginalized: Dante can be understood to the extent in which he 
is situated within the cultural context of his European matrix, or Romania, and 
of his specific locus, Italy and Florence. The consequences of this cultural 
awareness should encourage a continued study of Dante’s history, language, 
philosophy, theology, etc.: namely, the totality of Dante’s culture. 

Such an emphasis on the universality of Dante’s culture, which calls for a 
comparable universality in Dante scholarship, requires Dante scholars to be 
attuned to contemporary developments in medieval studies and in literary 
criticism. A recent issue of Speculum (65.1 [1990]) debated such questions as 
philology and “new” philology (Nichols; Wenzel; Bloch), linguistics and 
discourse (Fleischman), history and historicism (Spiegel), post-modernism and 
ironic history (Patterson). My intention is neither to remark on these articles’ 
timeliness (which to most readers is self-evident) nor to question that journal’s 
privileging of certain national literatures nor to point out the absence of 
medieval Italian literature from that issue of Speculum, with the exception of 
some comments in Patterson’s essay (98-99). Nevertheless, precisely such 
absence of medieval Italian literature from a special issue of the official 
publication of The Medieval Academy of America motivates my concern, which 
is addressed less at the editors of Speculum than at Italianists. In brief, the 
perceived sense of dynamism characteristic of Dante studies in America should 
not lead Italianists into believing that the Italian Middle Ages has achieved 
within American scholarship the same recognition as the study of the Italian 


22 For a feminist reading, see Kirkham’s essay in the last issue of Ad/ and the recently appeared 
feminist reading of the Vita nuova by Potter. 


26 Dino S. Cervigni 


Renaissance. At the same time, I also believe that such a recognition will come 
much more readily if Italianists were to work within a more universal medieval 
context and in closer cooperation with comparativists and scholars of other 
literatures. The future of Dante studies in America depends likewise on Dante 
scholars’ familiarity with contemporary criticism, just as we read in a special 
issue of PMLA concerning literature in general: “If theory dominates this special 
issue of PMLA, that is because it has loomed so large in literary criticism in 
recent years” (Kronik 385). Theory also dominates this issue of Ad/, just as 
theory places greater demands on the scholar of literature. While, on the one 
hand, we should heed a warning voiced in the same issue of PMLA that critics 
should not lord their theories over the poet’s words (Brombert), on the other hand 
we should not forget Dante’s own practice of a meta-discourse over his own 
poetry as exemplified as early as in the Vita nuova. 


The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Works Cited 


Ascoli, Albert Russell. “The Vowels of Authority. (Dante’s Convivio IV.vi.3-4.” 
Discourses of Authority in Medieval and Renaissance Literature. Ed. Kevin 
Brownlee and Walter Stephens. Hanover: Published for Dartmouth College by UP 
of New England. 23-46. 

Barolini, Teodolinda. Dante’s Poets: Textuality and Truth in the Comedy. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1984. 

. “Detheologizing Dante: For a ‘New Formalism’ in Dante Studies.” Iannucci 
35-53. 

. “For the Record: The Epistle to Cangrande and Various “American dantisti. 
Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 6 (1990): 140-43. 

Bloch, R. Howard. “New Philology and Old French.” Speculum 65.1 (1990): 38-58. 

Bloom, Harold. The Anxiety of Influence. A Theory of Poetry. New York: Oxford UP, 
1973. 

. Ruin the Sacred Truths: Poetry and Belief from the Bible to the Present. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1989. 
et al. Deconstruction and Criticism. New York: Seabury Press, 1979. 

Brombert, Victor. “Mediating the Work: Or, the Legitimate Aims of Criticism.” 
PMLA 105.3 (1990): 391-97. 

Caserta, Emesto G. “Gli studi danteschi di Rocco Montano.” Dante Studies 101 
(1983): 145-66. 

Chakravorty Spivak, Gayatri. “Finding Feminist Readings: Dante/Yeats.” 
Konigsberg 42-65. 

Culler, Jonathan. “Issues in Contemporary American Critical Debate.” Konigsberg 1- 
18. 

Cherchi, Paolo. Rev. of Allegory in Dante’s Commedia, by Robert Hollander. 


An Introductory Essay IM 


Modern Philology 69 (1972): 252-54. 

Dante Studies 104 (1986). In memoriam: Charles S. Singleton (1909-1985). [1989.] 

Della Terza, Dante. “Charles S. Singleton: An Appraisal.” Dante Studies 104 (1986 
[1989]): 9-25. 

. Forma e memoria. Roma: Bulzoni, 1979. 

Dronke, Peter. Dante and Medieval Poetic Traditions. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 
1986. 

Fleischman, Suzanne. “Philology, Linguistics, and the Discourse of the Medieval 
Text.” Speculum 65.1 (1990): 19-37. 

Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. and introd. Rachel Jacoff. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. 

Hall, Ralph G. and Madison U. Sowell. “On Dante and Cursus: A Brief Response to 
‘For the Record.’” Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 
6 (Spring 1990): 143-44. 

Harrison, Robert P. The Body of Beatrice. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1988. 

Hawkes, Terence. Structuralism and Semiotics. Berkeley: U of California P, 1977. 

Hollander, Robert. Allegory in Dante’s Commedia. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1969. 

. Il Virgilio dantesco: tragedia nella Commedia. Firenze: Olschki, 1983. 

Iannucci, Amilcare A., ed. Dante Today. Spec. issue of Quaderni d’italianistica 10.1-2 
(1989). 

Jacoff, Rachel and William A. Stephany. /nferno I]. Lectura Dantis Americana. With a 
new translation of the canto by Patrick Creagh and Robert Hollander. 
Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1989. 

Jefferson, Ann and David Robey. 1982. Modern Literary Theory. London: Batsford; 
New York: Bames and Noble, 1986. 

Kirkham, Victoria. “A Canon of Women in Dante’s Commedia.” Annali 
d’italianistica 7 (1989): 16-41. 

Konigsberg, Ira, ed. American Criticism in the Poststructuralist Age. Ann Arbor: U of 
Michigan P, 1981. 

Kronik, John W. “Editor’s Column.” PMLA 105.3 (1990): 385-90. 

Leavey, John. “Derrida and Dante: Différance and the Eagle in the Sphere of Jupiter.” 
Modern Language Notes 91 (1976): 60 -68. 

Mastrobuono, Antonio C. Dante’s Journey of Sanctification. Washington, D.C.: 
Regnery Gateway, 1990. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. “The American Criticism of Charles Singleton.” Dante Studies 
104 (1986 [1989]): 27-44. 

. Dante, Poet of the Desert. History and Allegory in the Divine Comedy. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

Nichols, Stephen G. “Introduction: Philology in a Manuscript Culture.” Speculum 
65.1 (1990): 1-10. 

Noakes, Susan. “Intertextuality and Dante’s Antithetical Hypersign.” Semiotics 1984 
(Proceedings of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the Semiotic Society of America). 
Lanham: UP of America, 1985. 95-103. 

. Timely Readings. Between Exegesis and Interpretation. Ithaca: Cornell 
UP, 1988. 

Patterson, Lee. “On the Margin: Postmodernism, Ironic History, and Medieval 

Studies.” Speculum 65.1 (1990): 87-108. 


28 Dino S. Cervigni 


Picone, Michelangelo, ed. Dante e le forme dell’ allegoresi. Ravenna: Longo, 1987. 

. “La ‘viva speranza’ di Dante e il problema della salvezza dei pagani virtuosi. 
Una lettura di Paradiso 20.” Iannucci 251-68. 

Placella, Vincenzo. “Guardando nel figlio . . .”: Saggi di esegesi dantesca. Napoli: 
Federico e Ardia, 1990. 

Potter, Joy Hambuechen. “Beatrice, Dead or Alive: Love in the Vita nuova.” Wallace 
60-84. 

Quinones, Ricardo J. Rev. of Lectura Dantis Americana: Inferno IJ, by Anthony K 
Cassell. Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 6 (Spring 
1990): 145-50. 

Robey, David. “Literary Theory and Critical Practice in Italy: Formalist, Structuralist 
and Semiotic Approaches to the Divine Comedy.” Comparative Criticism: An 
Annual Journal 7 (1985): 73-103. 

. “New Directions in Dante Criticism?” Comparative Criticism: An Annual 
Journal 11 (1989): 263-70. 

Shoaf, R. A. Dante, Chaucer and the Currency of the Word. Norman: Pilgrim Books, 
1983. 

Sollers, Philippe. “Dante et la traversée de 1’écriture.” Tel Quel 23 (1965): 12-33. 

Spiegel, Gabrielle M. “History, Historicism, and the Social Logic of the Text in the 
Middle Ages.” Speculum 65.1 (1990): 59-86. 

Tambling, Jeremy. Dante and Difference. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1988. 

Wallace, David, ed. Beatrice dolce memoria, 1290-1990: Essays on the Vita nuova 
and the Beatrice-Dante Relationship. Spec. issue of Texas Studies in Literature 
and Language 32:1 (1990). 

Wenzel, Siegfried. “Reflections on (New) Philology.” Speculum 65.1 (1990): 11-18. 

























fyrmg! cand Mndera orn | 


i PARMA D lec aRoifl mth gut ecreorable sienmnn ip Mods pede) 


He poctn. Elion jock the modes ricounes of Dante and Benveticy fatied, an 
P* encowster that, hid a life-heny chap « pares VW thy tain cape) and 
| mets bhoM xbagr nice 7 suns’ 0 ADO te etic es wart! 


eo Write Wh ail) the polewrnie Gas aks LAV (de Neruled & “AY? geal 

oh Wasedl ihe citec: OF the Whole © De Pureutewisl. which 1 even moni» 
Heath ree promt pibews ashavoozibe: yusatil tenoqmi. zoat oly io OwT 
Wa wri TNR: Bleek hiding OL MAMORE Tes 

mts WUE Ske isi: Sy Litre Weal Centoee by 

. Poe RN ey Bad OR ey Teds beeen 

iis nitaaierdundarty Pallett) soikiahls oft Dev loot 

OF beri: Movida “Riis Ul tye’ eins aw 141 a 
Pins Stiri Nei Ge ye deal le hei Dame 

eT It i) Nef Aa irs ope celles bloat 









| Ry vac Ad Sete SINT AS a fiber SY iD AGT toe esr 
G8E Raa Gul DIVINE ato P TO Oothietre ve ono detowel ieee 
POR ane Lait ity 9 Wik tas Sl DON AT Lo ttoed bet ot) pan Tin 
feat cate BA SUEY Sh Tae ARE BTL ca ster a 
Hwy ont Divides AUS id Wn Meant irepere HM SAM Site 
a ROSIN need hd hy Ropienny baits fa Wirdor |W itdl bath iD 
= la AST TASH Snir oft’ ARC LO Me Utras 
po MOyodlicd hl warent eaweun The 7 ohabiaatady Varies beta athe idkeag 8 S10 
© ojarihl rt eve. HRSA Ohmi PT he UIRESTaye rib) aweaa'h 
ANGE VSO ie SE sino ene dies uid) sobs aiber gio: Ska wee 
VOHRA Kei ey rE sists rnd hita A MP Na olen (REMY 
q tne etc abd faa jet dese) Hen te aD asia? 
, "ge AIG Wo eAK ey take ane OHA ECTS tH 
YRS db roth Cubby eo HStLA Wie ort"! tt pete 
HORTA CHIE Te DAE TANNA I WS ep rocio! tnt) GANONG oo 
z NR ie Ry ABS it ells Ri nib Sak ic! Fl ASTI O) ore oct Rb hee it dia 
spcosireg pice ride Date tes reid bitte a tay Tse QW dT dudes SNS eARSIRPT Gini 
i | diemnccpr let tate She bemeinilie’ oii diet aehig adalat! 
Web ig ec HIBEA) eH UN PY a reps ntfepeh SU RE eaten ted 









| Sep Sr eA WRReINe hoidever t * Ui Ded es a bt (nll 
| __ BAP siGone Oi base? holidnd fon ost APRS ROA e iat RG ait! 
Ppreghinas and sihitong, Lar | meant esi ives dak ai maAli 
Jeti had het lander sairacar inns eevee sale 

Wis nat A BOSS lw RAGS ig AN an 
Fach WN Oiiiderig HBA 40) ng AND cd oR TR REI 
Wat reali: ant LU he Misc nnd. Tey ahis Uhasz pWNAiLits Car) hiv esd a 


. ‘uae gods." This hastens Wbdel teolistic, typtesias at Cos 
2s i yatta oy obs “7==mtnall) “wabhiths nesquplad? quatns-disattuew! Yo 
f” * See ale ie SolaRDeE Rheraghe sda xyes) priQget yun Ole, dot, Lomangnade dt nilodane 





Ricardo J. Quinones 


Dante and Modernism 


Two of the most important literary rediscoveries of the twentieth century have 
been Dante’s Purgatorio and Shakespeare’s last plays.! For many of the same 
reasons, these coincidental revivals have been founded in the larger historical 
aesthetic and cultural principles of Modernism. One such Modernist principle 
involved the demotion of personality. In whatever ways this proposition might 
be interpreted we can see that it entails distinct aesthetic consequences, where 
indeed myth and ritual, structure and architectonics become more important than 
the older realistic requirements of plot and character. But this has implications 
for the Romantic personality as well. Rather than the animated projection of a 
single voice, one hears a medley of voices involved in a complex structure. We 
recall that the first section of The Waste Land had as its original title, “He Do 
the Police in Different Voices.” Related to this, and also helping to account for 
the renewed appreciations of both the Purgatorio and the last plays, one discovers 
in Modernism a more subdued poetic style as the poet himself becomes 
disabused of any vatic power: the poet is less a Triton among the waves and 
more a person with shared human qualities. 

As we turn specifically to the Purgatorio, we see that if our own major 
muses are any indication, that middle poem of Dante’s great trilogy is more 
deeply implicated in twentieth-century thought and being than we have heretofore 
imagined. In some sense we can say that the Purgatorio is the poem of the 
twentieth century. We do not seem capable of appropriating the Paradiso: 
Monroe Spears concludes that “there is in Auden’s poetry much less correlation 
to the Paradiso than to other parts of the Commedia,” and T. S. Eliot in East 
Coker, the third of the Four Ouartets, can invoke the occupation of the saint — 
that “‘lifetime’s death in love Ardour and selflessness and self-surrender” — at 
the same time that he announces his own incapacity to maintain such an 
intensity. In lines not inappropriate for the Purgatorio (itself the great canticle of 
time), he is content if his “temporal reversion nourish .. . the life of significant 
soil.” As Spears wrote of Auden “his poetic imagination seems to stop at the 
threshold with the Earthly Paradise” (Spears 96, 97). 

It is the Purgatorio that has touched most deeply the life of twentieth- 
century poetry. Again Spears writes of Auden as being throughout his career 
primarily influenced by the Purgatorio (3). And in probably the most significant 


1 “The revaluation of the last plays as Symbolist masterpieces is one of the great achievements 
of twentieth-century Shakespeare criticism” (Hunter, “T. S. Eliot and the Creation of a 
Symbolist Shakespeare). See also my Mapping Literary Modernism 183-85. 


Dante and Modernism 31 


example, because it comes from the most memorable section in Eliot’s greatest 
poem, Eliot took the model encounter of Dante and Brunetto Latini, an 
encounter that had a life-long responsiveness in his own experience, and 
converted it into a purgatorial meeting. In a letter of 1947 to John Hayward, 
Eliot wrote, “although the reference to that canto [XV] is intended to be explicit, 
I wished the effect of the whole to be Purgatorial, which is even more 
appropriate” (McDougal 78). 

If the Paradiso has been left unmolested by the changed evaluation of the 
Purgatorio, the same cannot be said of the Inferno. In fact the promotion of the 
Purgatorio must necessarily be attended by a related demotion of the Inferno. 
This is not to say that the Inferno has been ignored; rather it has been 
reinterpreted in the light of different moral and aesthetic imperatives. At the 
height of Modernism, after one bloody war and the appalling and almost 
unfathomable approach of a second, any romantic fondness for post-Napoleonic 
doomed and heroic personalities was bound to have very tough sledding. In an 
age whose early (although superseded) Bible was Heart of Darkness, such 
projections of the Romantic personality have been subjected to withering, even 
merciless, analysis and scrutiny. When we consider the fortunes of Shakespeare’s 
plays, we see that the same critical predispositions have been responsible for the 
demotion of Othello, another high Romantic favorite; and when its protagonist 
is accused of bovaryisme we are reminded that Poggioli invoked the same pattern 
to introduce distance between the reader and Francesca (Poggioli 76).” 

If we look to other reasons for this evident change in cultural allegiances, 
we can see that quite in accord with the strategies of Modernism and the 
devastating historical experiences of the twentieth century is Freudian 
psychology. For all of his enormous differences from Dante’s great theology of 
desire — the movement that when properly directed will return the soul to God 
and enable it to see the universal form of its individual being — Freud also 
portrays the human personality as being invested with powerful drives, and as 
with Dante, the great need is to set these drives in order. Freudian psychology 
requires a kind of eternal vigilance over the unruly psychic and emotional 
energies, which forces would otherwise lead to desperate and exaggerated 
expressions of emotional neediness, of a lack of spiritual control. In fact, if we 
look at the Inferno through Freud’s vision — and this is what Auden did — what 
we can at first see there is false heroism, false Romanticism, uncontrolled 
energies and ambitions. In the larger picture of Freud’s psychic anthropology, 
the great need is to overcome both infantile regression toward some Edenic safe 
place and futuristic high hopes. The project of Freudianism, oddly enough, and 
this makes it quite compatible with Modernism, is to reintroduce some 
semblance of realism into the human formula. In this therapeutic care it adopts a 
purgatorial mode. This chastened mode of realistic reassessment enjoys 


2 See also Eliot, Selected Essays 111. 


32 Ricardo J. Quinones 
specifically purgatorial adoption in Auden’s New Year Letter: 


sotinee In Time we sin. 

But Time is sin and can forgive; 
Time is the life with which we live 
At least three quarters of our time, 
The purgatorial hill we climb, 

Where any skyline we attain 

Reveals a higher ridge again. 

Yet since, however much we grumble, 
However painfully we stumble, 

Such mountaineering all the same 

Is, it would seem, the only game 

At which we show a natural skill, 
The hardest exercises still 

Just those our muscles are the best 
Adapted to, its grimmest test 
Precisely what our fear suspected, 
We have no cause to look dejected 
When, wakened from a dream of glory, 
We find ourselves in Purgatory, 


(Auden, Collected Poems 293) 


From this passage we can see two other interrelated notions that account for the 
elevation of the Purgatorio and demotion of the Inferno: one is the insistence on 
time, change and development as being integral to human nature and related to 
this the abhorrence of repetitive behavior. Repetition is seen in psychological 
terms, as the expression of fixated behavior, of some malfunctioning and 
emotional disorder. An unreconciled psychological agenda seems to predominate 
and produce obsessive behavior. This psychological understanding has influenced 
the ways we have come to regard the damned. As Hugh Kenner has written in his 
essay on Ezra Pound and Dante, “in Hell souls suffer in fixity, locked into an 
unchanging now” (50). Recognition of our changing human natures is itself a 
provision for hopefulness, and in some sense a token of freedom. It is for this 
reason that Eliot in his Four Quartets can discem a lack of defeat only in the fact 
that “we have gone on trying.” 

As we turn to more positive examples, we can see that the fullest poetic 
implementation of the issues and the requirements of Dante’s Purgatorio is in 
the air-raid section of Little Gidding. Like Auden’s New Year Letter, written in 
consciousness of the outbreak of yet another world war, Little Gidding is marked 
by a spirit of humiliation, if not chastisement. Unlike some other works of high 
Modemism, it is penitential and profoundly ethical. In the lines where he details 
the “gifts reserved for Age,” Eliot places himself in and in part recapitulates the 
tradition of English moralists, including Jonathan Swift and Samuel Johnson 


Dante and Modernism 33 


and even more contemporaneously the late William Butler Yeats. In fact the 
entire encounter might be considered an attempt to bring to some generous and 
proper understanding and reconciliation Eliot’s tense, if undeclared rivalry with 
his great Irish compeer. 

Like the Purgatorio, then, this air-raid section is a more fortunate encounter 
with ghosts, the ghosts that we carry with us in spirit and mind. Unlike the 
spirits encountered in the Inferno, these are not ghosts that need to be exorcised, 
that is, the ghosts that are a sickness in the blood, but rather ghosts that are to 
be incorporated, even appropriated as a sign of the health of the spirit. This is 
not an encounter with Ulysses but rather one with Nino Visconti and Forese 
Donati, or even more significantly with his own poetic tradition, as in cantos 
XXI and XXII, or canto XXVI. If the purgatorial movement is toward the 
recovery of the self that had been divided, the gaining of a spiritual brotherhood, 
to be sure with others, but primarily with oneself, then we can appreciate the 
sense of wonder if the agonized consciousness that once spoke in the voice of J. 
Alfred Prufrock can now speak with a sense of rightness at the recovery of his 
better personal, moral and poetic purpose. Through all the humiliation — 
perhaps as a consequence of the defeat of the errant will and the wayward human 
motives — like Dante at the summit of Purgatory, Eliot gives expression to a 
sense of personal validation. 

Like the Purgatorio, this section of Little Gidding derives from dislocation, 
discontinuity and division. The setting is wartime, the hour in uncertain, and the 
air-borne demons of war have only temporarily retreated before they return to 
once again spit out their bitter destruction. It is in this atmosphere that Eliot 
recaptures the fundamental motif of the Purgatorio as well as of the purgatorial 
experience, and that is its sense of pilgrimage. The solid world has been 
dissolved, the once stable ego found to be insufficient, and so in the twilight 
world between the living and the dead Eliot reconstitutes a spiritual at-oneness 
that is the product of pilgrimage. 


. .. as the passage now presents no hindrance 

to the spirit unappeased and peregrine 

between two worlds become much like each other, 
So I find words I never thought to speak 

In streets I never thought I should revisit 

When I left my body on a distant shore. 

(Eliot, The Complete Poems and Plays 141) 


Eliot even makes brilliant use of that crucial word from the Purgatorio: 
peregrine. In the spiritual condition of peregrination, which he approximates, 
that which is outer and that which is inner no longer seem very different, and, 
even more importantly, pilgrimage itself aspires in a spirit of atonement toward 
a reunion of those who are living with those who are dead. 


34 Ricardo J. Quinones 


That early classical Modernist text, James Joyce’s The Dead, powerfully 
presents a similar resolution. Gabriel Conroy’s entire world — in which 
throughout the story despite his apparent aplomb he is an uneasy, self-doubting 
and surprisingly vulnerable participant — crumbles at the revelation that his 
wife’s reverie is devoted to a young lover, Michael Furey, who, recalled through 
her own tinted lens, evidently perished through his passion for her. Conroy’s 
own passion and egotism are shattered by this ghostly intervention, one that 
shows however the continuing power of the dead to intrude upon our beings with 
greater vividness than that possessed by the living. In fact, typical of the 
purgatorial experience, the once solid ordinary world begins to seem unreal, and 
along with it Conroy’s own identity dissolves: “his soul had approached the 
region where dwell the vast hosts of the dead. He was conscious of, but could 
not apprehend their wayward and flickering existence. His own identity was 
fading out into a gray impalpable world: the solid world itself, which these dead 
had one time reared and lived in, was dwindling and dissolving” (The Dead 10). 
His own image also alters from that of inheritor — dissatisfied though he might 
be at such a role — to that of a journeyer. In fact, journeying itself becomes his 
main motif — a journeying beyond the world, a journeying toward death: “The 
time had come for him to set out on his journey westward.” 

Such apparent devastation paradoxically has a liberating effect, conveying 
Gabriel toward another perspective, and this explains why the early Joycean text 
may be aligned with the later works of Eliot and Auden. An essential purgatorial 
feature recaptured by both Eliot and Joyce is the lyrical meditative reverie that is 
at the source of creativity. It is not an accident that Dante’s Purgatorio is the 
primary gathering place of poets, artists and musicians, and that the common 
background of these exchanges (think only of the meeting with Forese Donati) is 
an abiding sense of disintegration. Purgatory is a place of ghostly convocations, 
to which are invited both living and dead — and for this reason it is an 
ambiguous yet pivotal midway station. In his New Year Letter Auden convenes 
the ghosts of his own poetic voice and in Little Gidding Eliot himself invokes a 
compound ghost, one that is himself and someone other — in fact, the assorted 
figures of Eliot’s own personal poetic tradition (quite early Hugh Kenner 
accurately referred to the air-raid section as a poetic recreation of “Tradition and 
the Individual Talent”). The purgatorial experience addresses the sources of 
creativity — and this is the basis of its appeal for Dante’s time as well as for our 
own; and yet these sources, the world of dreams, the lyric of memory, are 
involved with a sadly passing and disintegrating world but also with the 
reconstitution of a newer self, a newer poetic voice on the very bases of death 
and destruction. 

For this reason the intervention of Michael Furey is not simply a 
destructive event, nor does it provoke hostility in Gabriel himself. To be sure it 
does launch him into a mood of Romantic defiance: in contrast with the 
moribund world of his maiden aunts (“One by one, they were all becoming 


Dante and Modernism 35 


shades”) it is better to die as did Michael Furey: “Better pass boldly into that 
other world, in the full glory of some passion, than fade and wither dismally 
with age.” (It should be added that this demotion of the world of moral judgment 
and ethical conduct in favor of Romantic energy is most un-dantesque and 
counter-purgatorial — in fact it is Ulyssean.) But for the purposes of this essay, 
what must be noted is that rather than being rendered fearful by the image of 
Michael Furey, Gabriel Conroy literally appropriates the dead. “Generous tears 
filled Gabriel’s eyes” as he realizes that while he and his wife could not share 
such a passion still he understands the meaning it holds for her. As the older self 
has been beaten down — and this finally is the poetic and sacrificial meaning of 
the Purgatorio — newer selves are permitted to arise and assert themselves. 

There is even a greater purgatorial purpose in these acts of reclamation. If, 
as I have endeavored to argue, the Jnferno is based upon acceptance of foundation 
sacrifice as a parable for existence, and if such sacrifice requires the death of the 
brother, or the other, then the Purgatorio is motivated by the need to reconstitute 
the lost brotherhood. In this sense, then, pilgrimage, the canticle’s dominant 
motif, is a journey toward atonement, or literally “at-onement.”? For this reason 
the purgatorial experience is based upon the dissolution of known certainties — 
the public world and the self — in the hope of regaining more elusive ones, the 
vast world of the living dead, those who are gone but whose beings must be 
restored. It is for this reason that prayerful intercession replaces individual 
fame as the dominant request of Dante’s Purgatorio. Nor is it any accident — to 
move from theology to art — that Richard Ellmann located the source of Joyce’s 
later creative program, in fact Ulysses itself, in the powerful conclusion of The 
Dead (Ellman, James Joyce 261-63). It should also be clear why the central 
poem in Dante’s great trilogy should have found such resonant appeal and 
response among our Own maggiori muse and in our own criticism. Like 
Shakespeare’s last plays, it too represents an argument of spiritual 
reclamation. Not finding suitable acceptance in an age whose aesthetic criteria 
made priorities of plot and of character (and all of the social assumptions they 
involved), it required another epoch — a post-symbolist one — where myth and 
even miracle come more easily to the imagination. 


Director, Gould Center for Humanistic Studies 
Claremont McKenna College 


3 T have endeavored to sketch this argument in an essay, “Foundation Sacrifice and Florentine 
History: Dante’s Anti-myth,” and in several lectures delivered at the University of Virginia, the 
Lectura dantis newberryana and at the 1990 meeting of the AAIS. 


36 Ricardo J. Quinones 
Works Cited 


Auden, W. H. Collected Poems. New York: Random House, 1945. 

Dante among the Moderns. Ed. Stuart Y. McDougal. Chapel Hill: The U of North 
Carolina P, 1985. 

Eliot, T. S. The Complete Poems and Plavs 1909-1950. New York: Harcourt, Brace, 
1952. 

. “Shakespeare and the Stoicism of Seneca.” Selected Essays. New York: 
Harcourt, Brace, 1950. 

Ellmann, Richard. James Jovce. New York: Oxford UP, 1965. 

Hunter, G. K. “T. S. Eliot and the Creation of a Symbolist Shakespeare.” Twentieth- 
Century Literature in Retrospect. Harvard English Studies 2. Ed. Reuben A. 
Brower. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1971. 

Joyce, James. The Dead. In The Portable James Jovce. Ed. Harry Levin. 

Kenner, Hugh. “Ezra Pound’s Commedia.” In Dante among the Moderns. 

Poggioli, Renato. “Paolo and Francesca.” Rpt. in Dante: A Collection of Critical 
Essays. Ed. John Freccero. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice-Hall, 1965. 

Quinones, Ricardo J. “Foundation Sacrifice and Florentine History: Dante’s Anti- 
myth.” Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 4 (1989): 
10-19. 

. Mapping Literary Modernism: Time and Development. Princeton: Princeton 
UP, 1985. 

Spears, Monroe K. “The Divine Comedy of W. H. Auden.” In Dante among the 
Moderns. 





: e 
Sauies Power (pic wo) Aline 4 


























"i AU tt: ae ree. ii th tkci* with ig OE my one" ts SLO wh 
| mad argedtilns Wigeorer ey “Seon a ehmMaD Lh $73), dic “Toni 
tways” of fyec rot Peters Oh ee ranoy  ceysiPatie Jt 


pee “atest mori maby dg ly ie other mayeks rows ie 
as lenphyiny dered ©, oat: yw gl He PP STELINIGR, UES. 
SRI A NNT ae, ort Hage Yo! A aly AO 
TV iatege Sct) Bg. vey Ron a ail heh 

Me et eee, CR a ne. ea eS 
1 Seeicen inirrtes le lid © ager ‘ ; Reet: gral Vi. iN suo ee 
ently Cbrisath, Spl siitinw deetis). ses A) | eu 63 
Pants’s Cave. if eeoG ch Rey uleipacs ol ba “ony i! aang 

ac teak (ibid, oie! iat Canierts ' irk Wy’ ar. 
Aenviay mired eat e  eeich, He bah ay 211) Yo aaron ort WneROIS 
2 OTOONAIT etrcr Rt imsinniss He A 2geq ith Cowes ented piste 
REHOME TD ee We tater) SAT Hey 94 0 sb sigeontrett abe 
evwd RAL ete Pn PO ae Bovis: ship OP ath etaas 
Poy Wl tia, ek ee Cea er Tt AC avert: praises insenicy 
uth ahead Senin Eins to Molle hin ot yabeet gore oot aide Ret ea 
Aaah aint Wik te SONY Hae S Sis OW) fellate Pues sexth gr stat Hee RY sa 
Went rie Wy dienes Sti las eo od. a eicTes et Yeu bres 
ARES. AY owatslw’ “itle We Goede allen UAesn HAA OI Yr ere 
Sethi) tae: Ke ini rege ete HRS) Seat Beem a rh 
Sereniiosry wari Maa) be haus" yt arene oN so atgis GF AF": 
ARO hr Peat ar fe aE fri 18 tantad twict wea ae Poy 
Seabee obi yeuin trun anieie! i ilte cant odie aks can Martens (haa gd tosigh 
Adtroihy ye cragber orient ei soupe clnggentts in be sae ditela tle hits 
 -eieinli indie cin Ulegraul! to hia edT mets au, bc gQeTes fms oad Nie 
Shor bed aya) sit doteqadiet’ yatiay > "ors Se yet Cae ne aes 
masters of ee ecteak UP: io” (ota Sck jee bonnet 
Bodh Dik yaw Wie aiorttte meet i oath Tey i NN hie calnag MA ol thi 
Revo nail peel ge Wien ae 5 Siboat ah enhnb Gocnlsy evlind 
Vb ge eS sttgn ne ee tore We bed devi pe th hive aew  aryng erye-2tF 
OMA Diva Ashion doce id cic ggat gee! hownedacisabed 4c 
PGE yds spvederaW agai? “ho-eiel bas tb Goats arneatenlon 1s faite 
mpd ye eee) dele Yo haat Chow Mule in Dewate adiod ony’ mgs 
Vgaiep easy! tn we 1 ayy i ims daerinlemmail heal Seen ie heehee 
Ax Hebe MOhloas geome e aOR a oles Thor oii 
She eleticn’ Sou Ishhiats iu aint: Ot ar basuergtenta jyhigiies 
\mainabetaaeictes date aval aie mt aateials anneal eit seem be resm atest A 
“-gbalttod caida oletholer a doiitcie sagen rao Ue Galkyited \watitzoxns 


As + een aren whee sayin te ha that aaah Her 
; Seb ob aya) y! Yatiqne oo Ww vafadde wana. 1. 
"ee pirate of esingeh wkbinincs Mennyotovan linemtoerlasghotss sitar 


i 


Charles S. Ross 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 


“The time full of danger, the person full of worthiness, the manner 
full of horror, did greatly astonish all the beholders.” 
(Sir Philip Sidney, Arcadia, bk. 3, ch. 24) 


I 


Honoring the theme of this volume of Annali d’italianistica as a discussion on 
current Dante scholarship, this paper is an extension back to the Commedia of a 
work in progress to be called The Custom of the Castle: from Malory to 
Macbeth. The title derives from a romance topos, found for example in the 
thirteenth-century prose Tristan, where the lover of Isolde and his companion 
Dynadan meet ten shepherds, who send them to a castle where the custom is that 
those who seek lodging must joust against two defenders. Once the knights gain 
entrance, they must enforce the custom of the castle, doing battle with any new 
arrivals. Pio Rajna cites a similar scene in the Palamedés, where Guiron 
expresses surprise when his companion appears ignorant of such behavior. 
“You’re a knight errant,” he says to Danagn, “and you don’t know the custom of 
this castle?” Danagn had heard of it, but thought it was a joke. After defeating 
Messer Lac and Brehus sans Pitié, who lose their lodging and must curse in the 
cold all night, Guiron and his companion inquire as to the origins of the practice 
they are now expected to maintain. The lord of the castle informs them that the 
custom was established by King Arthur’s father. Before that, the castle had been 
haunted (Rajna 286-96). 

The first premise of my work is that the custom almost always had such a 
negative valence during the Middle Ages. Chaucer typically qualifies custom and 
its synonym “usage” with the adjectives wicked or evil or wrongful. But as J. G. 
A. Pocock showed long ago, a remarkable shift occurred, which would affect 
attitudes to custom through the time of Burke and Wordsworth. By 1604, 
custom was being argued as the very basis of English Common Law. The word 
enters Shakespeare’s work already historicized: custom appears in no history play 
before Henry V. Hamlet reflects a society where the idea of custom is just 
emerging, already marked by the sentiment of an ideal past. In Macbeth, whose 
themes reproduce King James’s interests in witchcraft and ancient Scottish 
ancestors, English custom emerges victorious, a valorization that was not lost 
on Edmund Burke or on the writers of eighteenth-century Gothic fiction. 

No Dante scholar will be surprised that Dante’s work foreshadows two 
centuries of English cultural development. Custom is negative in the Inferno; it 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 39 


becomes positive in the Paradiso. In the first canticle, “costume” is applied to 
the mad urge of those who crowd toward Charon’s crossing (/nf. 3.73), the “foul 
ways” of those from Fiesole (/nf. 15.69), and the elementary constraints of 
social behavior that the Genoese lack (nf. 33.152). This latter instance could be 
read as implying universal standards of value, but that interpretation, using 
Jameson’s words, disregards “the paradox of the very notion of value itself, 
which becomes visible as abstraction and as a strange afterimage on the retina, 
only at the moment in which it has ceased to exist” (250). The connotations of 
custom improve in the Purgatorio when Statius lauds the “dritti costumi” of the 
early Christians, although “custom” is still the mark of Otherness (Purg. 22.86). 
Dante’s Convivio is aware of the relationship of custom to social contingency, 
at least historically — some customs are “idonei e laudabili a una etade, che 
sono sconci e biasimevoli ad altra” (CV I i 17) — and this is proper, since 
custom is typically recognized as a social practice only where the practice is 
strange and different. The term then loses its overtone of social disapproval and 
becomes a synonym of personal habit in the remainder of the Commedia. Like 
the later English lawyers, Dante domesticates custom. 

A second premise of my work in progress is that we can find four structural 
features in a scene like the Noble Castle of Limbo — the inhabitants, the 
stranger who enters, the effect of the stranger's presence on the prevailing 
custom, and the function of the castle itself. More or less emphasis is given to 
each of these features. Dante’s Noble Castle probably gives most emphasis to 
the subject of my first chapter, which focuses on the individual castellan or 
keeper of the custom. He acts as the spokesman for the general inhabitants of the 
castle, for whom the custom of the castle, however nefarious, provides a social 
identity and a history. The issue is what is justice. Virgil is the keeper of the 
castle for Dante, and the problem of the divine justice that keeps him confined 
there suggests the complexity of the topos. Another way of looking at the 
custom of the castle is to concentrate on the knight who approaches the castle. 
The problem is the individual’s relation to a social order. This analysis would 
have to focus on Dante himself, who finds only slight barriers to entry and only 
a tinge of separation when his path diverges from the four famous poets at 
canto’s end. Equally attenuated in /nferno 4 is the spectacle that is created by the 
conscious maintenance of custom, which the third chapter considers. Civility 
emerges when the social order is refined. This reading of the castle as a sign of 
values can be traced in the early commentators. Refinement should be attended 
by some anxiety for one aware of the contingency of social customs. The image 
of the castle itself, the subject of the fourth chapter, represents an attempt to 
control those anxieties. The gesture is always futile, and it is an examination of 
Dante for a recognition of this futility that is the basis for the present paper. 

As the social space where behavior relations are defined, the castle is the 
arena where the dominion of custom is maintained. Historically, the 
establishment of a social and legal uniformity, the invention of English custom, 


40 Charles S. Ross 


required a desacralization of preexisting structures. André Chastel has shown how 
Protestant propaganda turned Rome into an infernal Babylon before imperial 
troops entered the city in 1527. The literary mirror of this process is the haunted 
castle, which must be emptied out before it can be transfigured and turned into 
the great country house, the manor of manners in whose orbit the modern novel 
is set. Macbeth perfects a strand of horror that runs through Tristan’s Castle of 
Tears, Boiardo’s Castle Cruel, Ariosto’s Marganorre episode, Sidney’s Cecropia, 
and the black magic practiced in Spenser’s House of Busirane. In Shakespeare 
there emerges the serene illusion of the dominance of English culture, as when 
Henry V teaches Catherine to speak English, or Macbeth sacrifices himself to 
English hegemony. As a result, Jacobean tragedies (The Duchess of Malfi) and 
later Gothic fiction (The Castle of Otranto) and the modern novel (Jane Eyre, 
Wharton’s House of Mirth) consistently picture sexual, familial, and political 
dominion in terms of a haunted house. Dominion involves a forgetting of the 
amount of injustice and repression that went on in the process of civilization. 
Historically, that image contains its own contradiction. To recover the castle’s 
dialectical structure, I will first analyze the glowing castle of Limbo as a scene 
of social justice. I will then turn to Macbeth, which dramatizes the exorcism of 
the castle as a way of picturing the establishment of cultural and political 
dominion. 

My third premise is that there are two ways to make this literary topos 
relevant to today. The first is to show that each author’s emphasis reflects 
historical legal battles that were fought for the control of society: Church against 
Emperor, local authority against central authority, feudalism against emerging 
capitalism, nation against nation, individuals against groups. The second 
approach is to show that these conflicts result in similar literary expressions. It 
is the second, more impressionistic route that I follow here. Dante does not write 
romance and he does not create scenes modeled on the custom of the castle topos, 
but he knew it from his reading. His work offers clues to interpretation. 


II 


In the canto following his entrance enter the citta dolente, Dante awakes, 
mysteriously transported into Limbo. After he travels a little way through the 
woods thronged with unbaptised spirits, a light reveals four noble poets, who, 
with Virgil, bring Dante to the castle of Limbo where the great-hearted pagans 
dwell. 

The commentator Porena glosses Dante’s first use of the word “castello,” in © 
the “nobile castello” of Inferno 4.106, as an open space ringed by walls, similar 
to a Roman castrum, from which the word derives (“Castello,” in Enciclopedia 
dantesca). Stone construction began at the end of the eleventh century and in 
Italy had replaced wood for well over a century before Dante wrote. The odd 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 41 


plural “castella” that Dante occasionally uses can be traced back to the word used 
for the sixteen strong fortresses interspersed with little towers along Hadrian’s 
wall.’ Castles are common features of the Italian landscape in Dante’s other five 

uses: He mentions bulwarked Paduan castles along the Brenta river (15.8) and the 
castle walls (castella) of Arezzo (22.8). Malebolge is said to be surrounded by ten 
valleys, just as castles (castelli 18.11; called fortezze at 18.13) are ringed by 
moats and have drawbridges. Some early illustrators, in fact, picture the valleys 
as castle walls (Brieger). 

The large enclosure that contains the heroes of antiquity is based on Virgil’s 
Tartarus (Aeneid 6.640), a space circumscribed by a wall and a river of flame. A 
castrum is a fortified place, castle, fort, fortress. Its synonym is castellum, but 
Virgil’s use of the word castle is limited: castella occurs twice, once in a fine 
image of disaster in the Georgics (3.475, where the Noric [Bavarian] castles on 
the hills are witness to the waste land left by a plague of disease), and once in 
the Aeneid (5.440, where Entellus attacks Dares as one does a mountain fort, 
“aut sedet sub armis circum montana castella,” choosing his approaches). 
Sallust’s Cataline uses a figurative phrase, “philosophiae castella defenderer,” 
which may have influenced early readings of the Noble Castle. Lewis’s Latin 
Dictionary also cites Livy’s “castellum in urbe velut arcem habere” (21.11.10). 
Virgil’s normal choice for a roofed structure is arx. 

The earliest commentators disregard the open space and instead concentrate 
their attention on the walls of Dante’s Noble Castle, oh on the surrounding 
river over which Dante passes “‘as if upon hard ground.’ * Most of them read the 
castle allegorically as a symbol of philosophy or human science, suitable to 
pagans who inhabit Limbo because they lived before Christianity. The Ottimo 
commento reads the seven walls as the seven liberal arts and the surrounding 
river as diligence, “cio mondana dilettazione, o vero la dispozione, 0 vero abito 
dello intelletto umano.” 

Boccaccio focuses interpretation on the actual space contained by the castle. 
Applying what Murrin has called the absurdity principle, where an inconsistency 
on the literal level signals the presence of allegory, Boccaccio wonders how a 
Closed castle, which he calls a “terra,” can contain a “meadow of green flowering 
plants” (Inf. 4.111). “Allegoricamente é da intendere il castello e la verdura, per 
cid che nel edificio alcun v’é né alcun erba pud nascere nel ventre della terra, 
dove né sole né aere puote entra.” The lack of penetrating sunlight rules out any 
celestial meaning for Boccaccio, for whom the castle therefore must be earthly. 
He describes the castle as “il trono della maesta della filosofia naturale,” drawing 


1 These were built of stone by the Romans, 125-133 A.D. See “Castles” in The Dictionary of the 
Middle Ages. 
2 Inferno 4.109. Mandelbaum’s translations, here and elsewhere. 

My citations from the early commentators are based on the text and dates of the Dartmouth 
Dante project. 


42 Charles S. Ross 


if not on the traditional identification of the seven walls with either the seven 
liberal arts or the seven virtues, then on Pietro di Dante’s suggestion (which 
echoes Sallust, and which Sapegno favors) that the seven walls represent the 
seven parts of philosophy (physics, mathematics, ethics, politics, economics, 
dialectics, and metaphysics). 

Boccaccio’s remarkable commentary proceeds to turn what to his 
imagination is a dim castle into an image of order. To know the seven liberal 
arts is to know their rules. But these rules are not explicit. This is not to say 
that rules do not exist, but when Boccaccio claims that the great poets such as 
Homer and Horace and Lucan who guide Dante towards the castle show the 
effects of the rules — “vi si truovano le conclusioni vere e gli effetti certi delle 
regole” — his demurral to the past raises the possibility that itemized rules are 
less important than the image of civility they produce. (In the law the logical 
argument against enumeration is well known: it tends to narrow instances. To 
number the Bill of Rights, for example, is to say in effect that there are no other 
rights.) Boccaccio’s gloss, then, makes the castle a powerful image of Western 
tradition fighting to find lodging, to maintain a social space. 

Early commentators encourage Boccaccio’s finding of a hard-won cultural 
tradition in the image of the castle. They tend to see in the river that surrounds 
the castle a form of habit, the usual and happy application of one’s education. 
The Ottimo commento combines delight, disposition, and learning: the river is 
“mondana dilettazione, o vero la dispozione, o vero abito dello intelletto 
umano.” Dante's mental abilities and knowledge allow him to pass lightly over 
the stream. Dante’s son Pietro reads the river, accordingly, as the habit of 
learning, affectum discendi. Boccaccio himself shifts the emphasis in glossing 
the stream, assuming that one whose delights are intellectual can shun the 
sustanzie temporali that the river represents. The river that surrounds learning is 
a barrier, but for Boccaccio it is an image of desire requiring superego 
suppression. 

Boccaccio’s reading of the castle as an image of what a working humanist 
would like to see as the dominant culture is plausible. Sapegno’s gloss of the 
river as eloquence is testimony to the editor’s praise of learning over avarice. 
Singleton interprets the hemisphere of light around the Noble castle as “the 
evident sign of the natural light” of reason (Singleton, ed., and Journey 33). Yet 
Boccaccio only hints at Dante’s own awareness of the limits of a perspective 
that, in valorizing Western tradition and reason, is ethnocentric. The seeming 
injustice of God’s inscrutable decision to withhold His grace from the pagans 
several times troubles Dante’s pilgrim, especially because his mentor Virgil is 
consigned to that space. Dogma, not rationality, requires the sacrifice of past 
poets and heroes for the justice of Christian futurity. The author of the Chiose 
selmiane is aware of the castle’s unfortunate and obvious limitations, noting that 
the seven virtues admit one to the Castle, but not to Paradise, for which one 
needs baptism (see Inf. 4.35). 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 43 


When Virgil describes Limbo to Statius as a “blind prison” (Purg. 22.103), 
he evokes a common function of a castle in romances, where the task of a 
Lancelot or Galahad is often to release captured souls or themselves to endure 
bondage (Burns 103). The prison image makes the castle a metonymy of cultural 
containment. Virgil’s answer to the “dimmi dov’é” of Statius, as Mandelbaum 
notes, also recalls the other major ubi sunt passage in the poem, the nostalgic 
evocation of the glory days of Romagna: 


le donne e ’ cavalier, li affanni e li agi 
che ne ’nvogliava amore e cortesia 
1a dove i cuor son fatti si malvagi. 
O Bretinoro, ché non fuggi via 
(Purg. 14.109-12) 


This evocation of hospitality, not imprisonment, prompts the Ottimo 
commento to give a version of the custom of castle topos, the entry of a stranger 
into a foreign interior, that seems almost to derive straight from The Art of 
Courtly Love of Andreas Capellanus. The nobles of Bretinoro, once upon a 
time, did not require visitors to joust for their lodging or to defend their right to 
a room, but so willingly leaped forward to offer their services that a custom had 
to be established to stifle the competition to welcome strangers. A column with 
various bells was set up in the castle courtyard, and where a stranger tied his 
horse indicated which citizen would host the newcomer: 


Intra 1’altre laudabile costume di nobili di Bretinoro era il convivere, e che non 
voleano, che uomo vendereccio vi tenesse ostello; ma una colonna di pietra era mezzo 
il castello, alla quale, come entrava dentro il forestiere, era menato, ed a una delle 
campanile convenia mettere il cavallo e cappello, e come la fronte li dava, cosi era 
menato alla casa per lo gentile uomo, al quale era atribuita quella campanella, ed 
onorato secondo suo grade. La quale colonna e campanella furono trovate per torre 
materia di scandalo intra li detti gentili, che ciascuno prima correva e menarsi a casa il 
forestiere, si come oggi quasi si fugge. 

(Ottimo, Purg. 14, ad loc.) 


This passage is typical of the custom of the castle topos in that it envisages 
modern custom as an evil mode of behavior that has usurped a previous good. 
The good customs of Bretinoro are in the past, separated from the present. The 
context of the Commedia, then, robs this image of its sweetness. Because of the 
past glory of its inhabitants, the castle of Bretinoro is a reminder of present 
deficiency. We must pause here to try to separate the image of the castle from 
that of the city. Dante’s image for the restoration of lost values is of course /a 
vera cittade, as when an earthly ruler who can administer justice is said to be able 
to discern “de la vera cittade almen la torre” (Purg. 16.96). For Northrop Frye, 
the city with its streets and buildings, production and distribution, is always the 


44 Charles S. Ross 


image of the power of reason to explain institutions: “[E]ven automatic ritual 
habits are explicable, and so every society can be seen or described to some 
extent as a product of conscious design. The symbol of conscious design in 
society is the city” (Frye 111). The Christian equivalent of utopia is the City of 
God, “its most famous literary treatment being the Purgatorio and Paradiso” 
(Frye 119). Joan Ferrante has recently noticed, “the walls and towers and caged 
animals” of Florence are the model for Hell (47). The /nferno is marked by 
images of the city. Yet the fragments of walls and portals, towers and 
battlements of the Jnferno never coalesce into fully imagined urban landscapes. 
The image of a city is reduced to the elements of a fortress; social justice is 
obtained at the expense of an ideal civility and futurity. The castle stands guard 
over and in contrast to the city. The irony of a castle as the symbol of 
unreasonable reason seems implicit in Domenico di Michelino’s famous picture 
of Dante in Sante Maria del Fiore, where the gates of hell are perfect mirrors of 
the gates of Florence. 

The dual nature of the literary castle still present in Michelino’s fifteenth 
century rendering — the massive exterior that contains the ghost of a vanished 
set of values — is missing in the predominant interpretation of later 
commentators, who would read the green grass within, or beyond, the castle’s 
walls as “perpetual fame,” following the Anonimo fiorentino gloss. Most 
modern editors (Singleton, Mandelbaum) fall back on this interpretation, after 
confessing the obviously allegorical nature of the structure (e.g., Bosco-Reggio 
[1979] note the originality of the castle, “il carattere polisemantico che lo 
distingue”). In so doing they shut their eyes to the problems of the castle’s 
walls, interior, and river. Illustrators tend to follow suit: Gustave Doré’s 
illustration to Inferno 4.89-91 stays in the forest, where a large tree blocks the 
distant prospects, where the Noble Castle might be. Barry Moser’s illustration to 
4.103 places the line of sight behind the group of poets, facing toward where the 
castle will be by line 106, but he still can’t see it (Mandelbaum ed.). The space 
where ancient meets modern outweighs the castle image in modern commentary. 

Modern interpretation is further skewed by a failure to formulate a theory of 
the castle that encompasses its exterior and interior. The problem is that fame in 
the Noble Castle can only be an empty commodity from a Christian perspective. 
Fame is the “last infirmity of Noble mind” only in the eyes of God, not “[s]et 
off to th’world” (Milton, “Lycidas” lines 71, 78). To read the edifice as the 
Castle of Fame is to miss the historical horror which the castle image is capable 
of conjuring up. 

It is that horror that Dante fully captures and that makes a discussion of 
Macbeth’s castle as a haunted house, for example, or of later Gothic novels, 
incomplete without a consideration of The Divine Comedy. Horror and terror are 
not medieval inventions. Job’s dreams scare him, and he complains that God 
terrifies him through visions. Even in Ovid the sight of a god may be terrifying. 
But it was Dante’s medieval imagination that most fully transformed the horrors 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 45 


of classical epics. 

The cities of Troy and Thebes, the subjects of Vergil and Statius, were the 
paradigms for the dispersed castle images of the Inferno. From Virgil Dante 
derived an association of horror with enclosed spaces, a Sartrean huis clos, the 
social nightmare of other people (or other famous poets). But something else 
emerges at several points where the institution of Troy has become intolerable. 
A few examples of Virgil’s imaginative power will serve: 

1. Aeneid 2.559. Horror grips Aeneas as the Greeks break into Troy and 
destroy Priam’s palace (domus, regis tectis 451; loca 495) just before Aeneas 
sees the ghosts of his father and an effigy of his wife Creusa. “At me tum 
primum saevus circumstetit horror, / obstipui” (“This was the first time savage 
horror took me”; my emphasis). Aeneas experiences horror at the arrival of a 
new social order to which he refuses to conform; he flees not in fright so much 
as because he “bristles,” the root meaning of horridior, and recoils from the 
ancient society. 

2. Aeneid 4.260. Not just the sight of Mercury brings horror to Aeneas, but 
that Mercury catches him building a city in Carthage, where he should not be 
“founding fortresses” (“Aenean fundantem arces ac tecta novantem / conspicit”). 
“At vero Aeneas aspectu obmutuit amens, / arrectaeque horrore comae et vox 
faucibus haesit” (4.279-80; “The vision stunned Aeneas, struck him dumb; / his 
terror held his hair erect; his voice / held fast within his jaws.”). He burns to flee 
from Carthage. 

3. Aeneid 6.559. Aeneas strikes terror into the shades, who are afraid of him 
as he passes through the underworld, armed, on the road leading “Ditis magni 
sub moenia” (6.541; “beneath the ramparts of great Dis”). From behind the 
portals where Rhadamantus tortures to compel confession and hear the crimes of 
the men whom Tisiphone whips, the sound of justice is horrible to Aeneas: 
“constitit Aeneas strepitumque exterritus hausit” (6.559; “Aeneas stopped in 
terror, and the din / held him”). The sound of the gates opening figures the 
feeling of Aeneas as he gazes on the scene of justice: “tum demum horrisono 
stridentes cardine sacrae / panduntur portae” (6.573-74, my emphasis; “And now 
at last the sacred doors are opened, / their hinges grating horribly”). The place of 
horror behind the gate has the effect of a haunted house. 

Virgil shows us an actual city in transition. And Dante’s depiction of hell 
absorbs Virgil’s image of such an enclosed social space where justice evolves 
painfully into civilization, fleshing out the suggestions of a haunted castle that 
he might have picked up from his romance predecessors. A distinction can be 
made, as Giuseppe Mazzotta has done, between a city such as Troy — whose 
destruction prefigures a translatio imperii, a subsequent restoration as Rome that 
gives continuity to Fame — and an earthly city where worldly institutions fail 
to constrain disorder, such as the fraternal strife of Thebes: 


Thebes is the metaphoric archetype of the civitas terrena. It originates like other 


46 Charles S. Ross 


earthly empires, in violence and it provides the dramatic storehouse of moral exempla 
of the horror of the historical chaos. It constitutes also a persistent model of 
recurrence and periodical renewal. Thus Pisa is a “novella Tebe” (Inferno xxxiii, 1. 89) 
and, like Thebes, is doomed to destruction. 

(Dante 98) 


What Mazzotta has seen in the image of Thebes is the perennial need for 
civilization to erect bulwarks against chaos, and the recurrent failure, the 
emptying out of those spaces, which replace each other in a continuing cycle of 
futility. 

If fame is an image of those values that the past holds out to the present as 
standards, the most infamous act must be the elimination of the future, to render 
tradition impossible. Dante’s most translated episode, the tragedy of Ugolino 
(Inf. 32-33) makes the “orribile torre” a synecdoche of the castle — the site and 
sign of the failure of tradition (Inf. 33.47). That the horror of the past generation 
cuts off the future informs the persistent reading of “Poscia, pit che ’! dolor, 
poté ’*1 digiuno” as Ugolino’s cannibalism of his children (/nf. 33.75). And 
Dante almost devilishly holds out to Ugolino a promise of fame (Inf. 32.92). 
The invocation of Thebes, then, fittingly follows the story of Ugolino.* The 
semiotics of the castle concentrates the Theban theme. These signs — the walls 
and towers and battlements and closed space — are peculiarly medieval 
expressions of an earthly city whose fame is its destruction. 

Dante’s Noble Castle, in consequence, conforms to the rigors of God’s 
justice in general and the seeming injustice of Limbo in particular. This 
symbolism is historically consistent with a structure from which petty tyrants 
operated in Dante’s era, and whose towers, we know, were often pulled down by 
those who opposed their power. 

A last possible image: Dante finally leaves the shades of evil men on the 
back of Vergil, who climbs down Satan. When they have passed the midpoint of 
earth, Dante is in the hollow left when the mountain of Purgatory formed, the 
hollow space, the “loco voto” or “tomba.” He remarks that “Non era camminata 
di palagio / 1a ’v’ eravam” (Inf. 34.97-98), but a natural dungeon (“natural 
burella”). Dante, then, has left the enclosed space of the Jnferno with the 


4 Freccero, in fact, reads the enclosure of Ugolino and Ruggiero in a single ditch as emblems of 
the Italian political order, where vengeance is the law. The existence of the Other is a menace, 
but “this precarious uniqueness or individuality is continually threatened by the increasing 
resemblance of each to each. The social consequence of this struggle is generalized violence, a 
parody of the city. . . . Alienation is physical proximity” in every episode (155). Statius’s 
Thebaid begins with an image cited as a possible source of the custom of the castle topos by the 
Spenser Variorum: the flight of Polynices through a storm and seeking shelter in a doorway 
already occupied by Tydeus is the main action of the first book. In book eight, Tydeus gnaws on 
a skull — “his jaws polluted with living blood” (“et vivo scelerantem sanguine fauces” 761), the 
source of Dante’s Ugolino horror. 





Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 47 


suggestion that he has left a palace. Or, more importantly, that he has not 
entered a new one. And in fact the word castle never occurs again in The Divine 
Comedy. The word castello is confined to the Inferno; the later canticles will use 
“ostello” for the space where social practice is an issue, even for one who will 
know “‘si come sa di sale / lo pane altrui’” (Par. 17.58-59; see Par. 17.70, 
“ostello”). 


III 


The walls of the noble castle are intact, but its values are outmoded by the new 
law. The dritti costumi of the new Christians, evoked by Statius, have turned the 
castle into a luminous monument of loss. Iannucci has observed that Dante 
created the nobile castello to shift the emphasis of Limbo away from the 
harrowing of hell, which he then reworked in the drama that takes place before 
the walls of the City of Dis (nf. 8.67-9.105). He has touched on a paradox that 
is essential to our understanding of the castle image. The castle has already been 
harrowed. It is a sign of what has been removed, but it remains a place of 
containment. 

“Every Renaissance city is symbolically polarized by the bishop’s palace on 
the one hand and the palazzo pubblico or its dynastic analogue on the other” 
(Gundersheimer 360). For Dante on the threshold of heaven, the symbols of 
Empire and Church are outmoded even as Virgil speaks. By the time Shakespeare 
writes under James I, such defensive dwellings, such containers of hospitality, 
are similarly anachronistic in an era of gunpowder and fortresses built to be 
bunkers rather than centers of social life. ““To stage a tragedy of anachronism is 
perhaps the most effective way of exorcising it” (Greene 235). Indeed, in the 
romantic epics of Boiardo, Ariosto, and Spenser — the heirs of Dante’s 
imagination and the precursors to Shakesperare — to empty a castle of its 
demons is as much as to destroy it. That emptying is one reason why ruins are 
so romantic. 

Shakespeare dramatizes this paradoxical process wherein the exorcism of a 
castle creates a new image of dominion. He does this several times, in several 
locations which eighteenth-century editors identified by name, although neither 
the text nor the directions of the First Folio distinguish them clearly. Like 
Dante’s early commentators, they saw castles modern readers may fail to 
observe. 

The final exorcism is performed at Dunsinane, where Macbeth has 
proclaimed that “Our castle’s strength / Will laugh a siege to scorn.” Macbeth 
himself exorcises the castle and so rescues Scotland, a process figured several 
different ways in the final scenes. For example, Rosse, a representative 
Scotsman, and Siward, the leader of the English, lecture each other on the proper 
mode of mourning for Siward’s son killed in battle as if both were establishing 


48 Charles S. Ross 


the custom for the first time. Since they have the same values, an illusion is 
created of a past common to Scotsmen and Englishmen, a past that had been 
usurped by Macbeth. At the political level, the northward march of Siward, 
Malcolm, English troops and Scottish rebels is made to appear not the 
establishment but the restoration of Scottish traditions, which dovetail with 
good English manners. Malcolm — the son of Duncan, the virgin warrior and 
instrument of justice — renames his “thanes and kinsmen” as earls and declares 
his intention of being “crown’d at Scone.” By exorcizing bad customs, the play 
creates for James’s court a new notion of custom as a nostalgic but powerful 
sign of a romantic era that never was, when kings were freely chosen in the open 
air, no castles were haunted, and justice walked on earth. 

In the last act of the play, Dunsinane becomes a sign of renewed justice as 
Lady Macbeth dies and Macbeth rushes to battle, emptying the castle, which 
Malcolm then seizes. The death of Lady Macbeth and the wail of her women 
release Macbeth at the very moment of invasion, shadowed troops advancing to 
the walls. Macbeth’s ensuing soliloquy on the empty significance of life 
(“Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow”) takes place in a significant interval, 
just before the news of Birnham Wood’s movement, and just after Macbeth has 
sentimentally recalled a happier time, before blood had dulled his sensibilities, a 
time when he could feel horror: “The time has been, my senses would have 
cool’d / to hear a night-shriek” (5.5.10-11). Lady Macbeth has just died. That 
space, that moment between an impossible nostalgia for the recent past and the 
totally undetermined decision to advance to battle, forms boundaries around and 
confines to Macbeth alone a suicidal weariness of life, the black thoughts that 
are the mental correlative to an evil castle. Macbeth, for whom sallying forth 
offers no strategic advantage, seizes the chance at a tactical retreat from 
Dunsinane itself. 

The castle is not destroyed, but emptied and then occupied. Macbeth’s levies 
abandon him, and the tyrant’s early flight from the castle allows Malcolm to 
enter unopposed. Malcolm’s language reduces the resistance to nothing — “We 
have met the foes that strike beside us” (5.7.28-29) — and Siward assumes the 
role of the keeper in announcing, as if there were no impediments: “Enter, sir, 
the castle” (5.7.30). 

Like the Noble Castle, Dunsinane remains as a bifurcated sign. It is a sign 
of past tyranny, but also a reminder of the power of which the present dominion 
stands seized. The injustice of the policy Macbeth followed was established at 
two other castles, Forres and Inverness. At Forres, Lady Macbeth’s banquet 
foreshadows Macbeth’s failure to establish social control in Scotland, or to guard 
against the inheritance by Banquo’s son Fleance. Lady Macbeth desperately 
attempts to give the name of normalcy to the disorder that the ghost of Banquo, 
killed that afternoon, stirs in Macbeth — “Think of this, good peers, / But as a 
thing of custom” (3.4.95-96). But she cannot turn disorder into order merely by 
naming it “custom.” Her social order is founded on murder. That act haunts her, 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 49 


as she haunted her own castle, at Inverness, where she and Macbeth murdered 
their guest, King Duncan. 

Dante’s image for the betrayal of hospitality that takes place at Inverness is 
Ptolomea, penultimate level of Hell, the space between Ugolino and Satan 
himself, which Dante reserves for those who betray their guests. But the 
presentation of Ptolomea is unusually elliptical. Dante compresses the history of 
Frate Alberigo to an almost Miltonic set of puns on “fruit”: “i” son quel da le 
frutta del mal orto, / che qui riprendo dattero per figo” (/nf. 33.119-20). For 
modern commentators the issues of Ptolomea tend to be the meaning of the 
name, the identification of the condemned souls, and Dante’s refusal to fulfill his 
promise to remove the icy cataracts that confine Frate Alberigo within his own 
tears. The early commentators, however, emphasize two other aspects of the 
second, less famous, half of Inferno 33. First, they stage scenes of hospitality 
appropriate to the activity of a castle. They tell us that Frate Alberigo murdered 
some relatives at a banquet, his signal to his henchmen being the call for the 
fruit course at dinner. The commentators also unveil the deadly hospitality of the 
other named inhabitant of Ptolomea. They inform us that Branca Doria murdered 
his father-in-law at a banquet. Dante’s poem is not specific; it mentions only 
“tradimento” (Inf. 33.147). 

Moreover, the early commentators discuss the process whereby a demon 
takes the place of soul in a still-living body. The result of the actions by both 
Fra Alberigo and Branca Doria was that their souls went straight to hell while 
their bodies remained in the world, inhabited by a demon. What the early 
commentators see, then, is an image of a haunted interior space left behind in the 
world. The implication is that the only means to exorcize these places of 
demonic hospitality is to remove the bodies that inhabit them. 

That emptying, we have seen, occurs when Lady Macbeth dies and Macbeth 
abandons Dunsinane, like a displaced demon. But the exorcism cannot occur 
until the demonic has been established. That process of demonic possession — 
the overlooked issue of Ptolomea — occurs in Macbeth before the murder of 
King Duncan at Inverness. 

Even as the knife is prepared for Duncan’s throat at the castle, Macbeth 
conjures a former social order of “even-handed justice” (1.7.10), which the 
movement of the play will eventually reimpose. Tragic precisely because he 
knows his actions violate a well-grounded morality, Macbeth sees himself as a 
“host, / Who should against his [Duncan’s] murtherer shut the door, / Not bear 
the knife” (1.7.14-16). Duncan’s view of Macbeth’s dwelling is similarly, 
powerfully, nostalgic — “This castle hath a pleasant seat, the air / Nimbly and 
sweetly recommends itself / Unto our gentle senses” (1.6.1-3) — because the 
castle has already become an image of the hypocrisy of Lady Macbeth. Unlike 


Stam thinking of the first line of Paradise Lost: “and the fruit / Of that forbidden seed.” 


50 Charles S. Ross 


Macbeth, in whose face “men / May read strange matters,” she is able to put on 
a welcoming face to Duncan and Banquo. When she and Duncan exchange 
convoluted courtesies, the double duties Lady Macbeth advertises — “All our 
service / In every point twice done, and then done double” (1.6.15) — mimic her 
ominous double purpose, which renders Duncan’s welcome out of date. She has 
replaced Banquo’s martlets with her own raven thoughts, haunted her castle while 
calling on spirits, murdering ministers, and night, and so changed its custom 
before Duncan’s entrance to its battlements. Duncan is no knight-errant Tristan, 
and there is no keeper of the castle to warn him away. As Lady Macbeth herself 
greets Duncan, De Quincey’s famous porter is significantly absent — for his 
romance role would have been to explain the castle’s ways. In an unusual 
gesture, Lady Macbeth greets Duncan outdoors, as if recoiling from her own 
fraudulent intent and guilty mind. 


IV 


The powerful dramatic operation of Macbeth’s castle should make us reconsider 
what T. S. Eliot meant when, in his important essay on Dante, he chose 
Banquo’s description of Macbeth’s “pleasant seat” as an example of why 
Shakespeare, in contrast to Dante, was a poor model for other poets. Eliot tells 
us that he early on turned to Dante, reciting memorized passages “lying in bed or 
on a railway journey” that would crop up as a colophon to “The Love Song of J. 
Alfred Prufrock”; or lines diligently footnoted in his urban epic, The Waste 
Land; as a model for the tercet passage in “Little Gidding” where in the shadow 
of the London blitz Eliot meets the ghost of his poetic predecessor; as an 
inspirational quote in “Animula” (“‘Issues from the hand of God, the simple 
soul,’” a translation of “‘Esce di mano a lui . . . l’anima semplicetta’” Purg. 
16.85; 88); in “Ash Wednesday,” and elsewhere.® The heroics of scarcely 
individualized errant knights seeking entrance to medieval castles may seem far 
away from the mind of the Modernist poet, despite Eliot’s evocation of the Grail 
legend in The Waste Land.’ Nonetheless, in his famous comparison of Dante to 
Shakespeare, Eliot chose Banquo’s description of Macbeth’s castle as a point of 
comparison to the opening lines of Dante’s Commedia: 


Duncan 
This castle hath a pleasant seat: the air 


6 See “Eliot” by Mario Praz in the Enciclopedia dantesca. The quote about the train joumey is 
from “A Talk” 219. 

7 Of the “poet’s poet” and inspiration for Keats, for example, he said that no one read Edmund 
Spenser’s chivalric epic The Faerie Queene (1590, 1596) “except scholars, and the eccentric few 
who . . . have deliberately studied themselves into the right appreciation.” See the essay 
“Charles Whibley,” Essay 441. 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 51 


Nimbly and sweetly recommends itself 

Unto our gentle senses. 

Banquo 

This guest of summer 

The temple-haunting martlet, does approve 

By his loved masonry that the heaven’s breath 
Smells wooingly here: no jutty, frieze, 
Buttress, nor coign of vantage, but his bird 
Hath made his pendant bed and procreant cradle: 
Where thy most breed and haunt, I have observed 
The air is delicate. 


Eliot claimed that “more is lost in translating Shakespeare into Italian than 
in translating Dante into English.” He contrasted Shakespeare with Dante as the 
poet of the common language (“Dante” 213). Beyond the obvious difficulties of 
Shakespeare’s vocabulary, Eliot found Dante closer to medieval Latin and the 
culture of a unified Europe (““Dante” 203). But to make the point, the castle must 
be what seems common but is in fact very parochial. Could Dante have possibly 
selected what later appears in the description of Macbeth’s treacherous castle 
without considering the complexities of the drama in which it appears, a drama 
that, we have seen, repeats in another mode some of Dante’s most grim images 
of violated hospitality? The question becomes to what extent is Eliot’s citation 
of Banquo’s naive description a political act. 

The general feeling today is that Eliot was attracted to Dante as a poet with 
a mad scheme for a monarchy, who wrote his third epistle to the emperor Henry 
VII asking him to reestablish justice and order in Italy. Or that Eliot’s Dante was 
one who promoted static categories and medieval authority — such social order 
as a castle might easily represent.’ Giuseppe Mazzotta, for example, writes that 
Dante appealed to Eliot because Eliot had “a monolithic idea of medieval culture 
as an immense consciousness that unfolds unitarily from the Fathers of the 
Church to the last theological poet of the twentieth century” ("American” 33). 
Mazzotta’s charge against those who read Dante in order to recover a myth of 
foundations is not less effective because it has been made before: Santayana 
attacked Charles Eliot Norton for his “genteel” attachment to Dante (Levin 329). 

Seamus Heaney has recently found it curious, however, that “this born-again 
Anglican and monarchist” — Eliot — “did not make more of the political 
Dante” (10). Citing Eliot’s lines, however, Heaney himself misses the colonial 


8 pss. Eliot’s classicism led him in the direction of fascism” (Posner 150). I leave for 
elsewhere the investigation of why an eminent jurist (Posner is a professor of law) might 
summarize with such effrenata audacia. 

9 But Heaney himself notes how for poets their image of Dante “is likely to be a reflection of 
their own imaginative needs, their own artistic inclinations and procedures” (5). Leaving aside 
Heaney’s own confrontation with Eliot, we may add the evocation by the scarcely rural Allen 


52 Charles S. Ross 


irony of Eliot choosing out of all of Shakespeare the gay image of the castle in 
Macbeth. He calls them “lines full of air and light” ( “Envies” 10) — when they 
are, as we have seen, the very image of political domination and that hierarchical 
standard which Heaney himself identified as central to Eliot’s fascination with 
Dante.’” If we turn back to the passage in his essay on Dante, we see that as 
well as valuing Dante’s closeness to medieval philosophy, Eliot recoiled from 
the nationalism of Shakespeare — that combination of power and property that 
New Historicist readings have recently brought to our attention.’ 

That Eliot relished his own spiritual life does not mean that he 
automatically sought political order, or saw Dante as a poet of earthly order. To 
suggest as much is to confuse the telos of religion with submission to 
“authority.” Eliot himself suggests an answer to this contradiction. In his essay 
“The Pensées of Pascal,” Eliot scorns the unbeliever as “not so greatly troubled, 
to explain the world to himself, nor so greatly distressed by its disorder; nor is 
he generally concerned (in modern terms) to ‘preserve values’” (360). What Eliot 
sought, and found in Dante, was a guide to the containment of disorder. 

Eliot, then, establishes himself as the first modern to see the duality of 
Dante’s castle imagery when he compares Dante’s opening to Duncan’s approach 
to Macbeth’s castle.!12 He read Dante, at first, as the experience of dominion, “of 
shock and surprise, even of terror (Ego dominus tuus)” (“Dante” 212). But he 
found in that vision of dominion a means of containment that allowed him to 





Mandelbaum of “the restless, urban, unecclesiastical curiosity” that, he tells us, characterized 
Dante (“Dante in His Age” 321). 

10 The somewhat derogatory tone of Heaney's description of Eliot is at odds with his practice. 
He believes that Eliot found in Dante a “cultural representativeness [suitable to] his 
conservative majesty or his intellectual orthodoxy” (16). But Heaney himself is not immune 
from a longing for a poetic practice that transcends the contingent. His quote from Sidney is a 
fresh inspiration for what is often belittled as New Criticism, as the great Irish and American 
poet evokes “one of our perennial expectations from art, that it deliver what Sir Philip Sidney 
called a ‘golden world’ to defy the ‘brazen world’ of nature.” Heaney is not talking here of the 
Sidney current in Renaissance scholarship, pale in the face of the New Historicism’s post- 
colonial anguish: during his tour of Ireland, he watched his father hang “rebels” from town to 
town, ten, twenty at a time, and then went home to write his prose and poetry. Rather, he 
himself acts out what he finds in Dante, the search for “a framework of beliefs which were 
inherited and communal.” Those values are embodied in poetic language. This lesson is the 
theme of his own version of Eliot’s most Dantesque moment in “Little Gidding.” In “Envies” 
Heaney reveals that he has translated, but not published, the first four cantos of Dante’s poem. 
11 Eliot found nationalism part of a “process of disintegration” that “began soon after Dante’s 
time” (“Dante” 202). 

12 Freccero (107) intuits this duality too, I believe, when he makes a case for Limbo as a scene 
of social justice, comparing it to the slope, frequented by the hobbled few, that leads to the 
mountain of the soul where reason and appetite are in harmony. “In a tradition that is Platonic in 
origin, Justice is a form of harmony, an ordering of parts within the whole. . . . Divine Justice is 
a projection of Dante’s hand. Its coherence is esthetic, but his does not mitigate the terror” 
(105). 


Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 53 


circumscribe and to transcend the modern city. Later in life Eliot described his 
Waste Land not just psychologically but socially, as a “fusion between the 
sordidly realistic and the phantasmagoric.” From a few lines of Baudelaire — 
“Fourmillante Cité, cité pleine de réves, / Ou le spectre en plein jour raccroche le 
passant” — Eliot intuited, he said, the sordidness of an industrial city in America 
as a subject for poetry (“A Talk” 220). Harry Levin, who defines Modernism as 
the product of cities, concludes that Eliot “exorcized the blight of 
contemporaneous London by tracing through it the outline of a quest for the 
Holy Grail. A timeless ritual . . . a station in [his] pilgrimage toward faith” 
(291). One wonders to what extent Eliot, as he was reciting Dante “lying in bed 
or on a railway journey,” was not also hearing, as he dreamed or traveled, the 
haunting echo of the lines from Macbeth. 


Vv 


From the noble castle of Limbo to the ring of Ptolomea, Dante and his early 
commentators offer evidence of a way of thinking that had enormous impact on 
later literature and continues to influence us today. Commenting on the lack of 
any edition of Dante between 1629 and 1702, Dorothy Sayers pointed out that 
“it was not so much the Age of Reason that discovered the Divine Comedy as 
the Gothic Revival that discovered the Inferno” (“The Art of Translating Dante” 
16; cited by Tinkler-Villani 6). The first English translations were invariably of 
Ugolino’s story, where the Tower of Hunger is a house of horrors (Tinkler- 
Villani 2). 

The release from the infernal Dante was as important as his containment of 
horror. The sign of that release was Dante’s language, which saved Eliot from 
the burden of the English past (Shakespeare, Milton). My original thesis, when I 
undertook this essay, was to trace a line from Eliot’s early tetrameters to my 
own attempt to bring Boiardo across the cultural divide into American verse. 
Perhaps not a translatio imperii, in my case, but a translation nonetheless.’ 
Here is the stanza that introduces the horrors of Castle Cruel, Boiardo’s version 
of the custom of the castle topos: 


“By rumor, maybe, you have heard,” 
The old hag said, “the bloody ways 
And customs that this fortress keeps. 
Now, in the time you have alive 


13 Mazzotta writes that Aeneas enacts the translation, the “notion that history is the process of 
tradition, an attempt to recover anew what has been lost, by moving away from the origin or its 
identical replica (Pergamea). He is between the ‘no longer’ of Troy and the ‘not yet’ of the 
fulfillment” (100). 


54 Charles S. Ross 


(Your death will be delayed till dawn — 
But don’t believe you can survive), 

In this time, I'll recount to you 

The cause that had this course proclaimed. 
(Orlando innamorato Lviii.27) 


But my final realization, as I conclude my re-encounter with Dante and Eliot, is 
how far from what I needed Eliot’s tetrameters are. There is too much mockery 
in such early Eliot as, 


I shall not want Honour in Heaven 
For I shall meet Sir Philip Sidney 
and have talk with Coriolanus 

and other heroes of that kidney. 
(“A Cooking Egg” 27) 


This typical passage simply does not offer the weight of what I received from the 
lines that did teach me what tetrameter verse could do seriously. I knew that 
tetrameter could work in American English. A recent example is this line 
delivered by Patrick Swayze in the film Next of Kin: “You ain’t seen bad yet, 
but it’s coming.” Let those syllables echo in your ear and you’ll begin to 
understand what my Boiardo translation is doing. But to elevate that common 
rhythm to where it could capture the resonances of a former, Dantean sublimity 
— this was not possible for me until I heard the lines that begin: 


First light descends the serpent Seine. 
It fords two shuttered panes and then 
my dim divan in this Hotel 

du Mi-Chemin near Rue Grenelle.” 


Mandelbaum’s Parisian room is Dantesque, if not possessed. The divan comes 
from a Persian word meaning a book of many leaves (a collection of one’s 
poems, or an account book of debts), or the office of accounts, the custom- 
house. Boccaccio has glossed the dimness for us. The morning light is from 
Purgatory 17.41, “nuova luce percuote il viso chiuso.” The domestication that 
Shakespeare effectuates in Macbeth takes place in these lines, as the light 
“strikes suddenly against closed eyes,” after Dante has replaced the castles of hell 
with the manors of good manners that once were, places where “solea valore e 
cortesia trovarsi” (Purg. 16.116; “one used to find valor and courtesy”) — a 
sentiment that, to bring this essay full circle, was one of Rajna’s inspirations. 


14 See my translation of Boiardo (135). 
15 Mandelbaum, Savantasse 11. I had it in typescript when I began final revisions in 1984. I 
was in my thirty-fifth year at the time, [nJel mezzo del cammin, “Du Mi-Chemin.” 





Castles from Epic to T. S. Eliot 55 


Moving beyond Rajna’s positivism, however, we have seen that Dante’s 
noble castle is more than a site of nostalgia for the pagan poets. As a symbolic 
institution, it dramatizes the problem of injustice in an ordered society. The 
horrors of the past, belied by its luminous walls and the theme of fame, are 
played out in the later cantos of the /nferno, particularly in canto thirty-three, 
where the elliptical presentation of treacherous hospitality in Ptolomea is more 
than an unimaginative coda to the more famous Ugolino passage. Ptolomea 
continues a theme, the exorcism of political horror, that Shakespeare acts out in 
the castle of Macbeth. I have further argued that Eliot, averse to nationalism, 
was sensitive to the politics of the castle image. To conclude, I have sought, in 
this essay, to sketch a defense of the proposition that from Vergil and Statius to 
Dante and Shakespeare to the twentieth century, the castle has been a complex, 
dialectical image of dominion. 


Purdue University 


Works Cited 


Anonimo fiorentino. Commento alla Divina commedia di anonimo fiorentino del 
secolo XIV, or per la prima volta stampato. Ed. Pietro Fanfani. Bologna: G. 
Romagnoli, 1866-74. 

Bloch, R. Howard. Etymologies and Genealogies: A Literary Anthropology of the 
French Middle Ages. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1983. 

Boccaccio, Giovanni. Esposizione sopra la Commedia di Dante. Ed. Giorgio Padoan. 
Vol. 6, Tutte le opere di Giovanni Boccaccio. Ed. Vittore Branca. Milano: 
Mondadori, 1965. 

Brieger, Peter, et al. I/luminated Manuscripts of the “Divine Comedy.” Bollingen 
Series LXXXI. 2 vols. Princeton: Princeton UP 1969. 

Burns, Jane E. Arthurian Fictions: Reading the Vulgate Cycle. Columbus: Ohio State 
UP, 1985. 

Chastel, André. The Sack of Rome, 1527. Trans. Beth Archer. Bollingen Series 
XXXV, 26. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1983. 

The Dictionary of the Middle Ages. 12 vols. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 
1983-89. 

Eliot, T. S. The Complete Poems and Plays, 1909-1950. New York: Harcourt, 1971. 

. Selected Essays of T. S. Eliot. New York: Harcourt, 1964. 
. “A Talk on Dante.” In Dante in America: The First Two Centuries. Ed. A. 
Bartlett Giamatti. Binghamton: MRTS, 1983. 

Enciclopedia dantesca. Ed. Umberto Bosco, with Giorgio Petrocchi. Roma: Istituto 
dell’enciclopedia italiana fondata da Giovanni Treccani, 1970-78. 

Ferrante, Joan. The Political Vision of the “Divine Comedy.” Princeton: Princeton 
UP, 1984. 

Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. and introd. Rachel Jacoff. 


56 Charles S. Ross 


Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. 

Frye, Northrop. The Stubborn Structure: Essays on Criticism and Society. Ithaca: 
Cornell UP, 1970. 

Greene, Thomas M. The Vulnerable Text: Essays on Renaissance Literature. New 
York: Columbia UP, 1986. 

Gundersheimer, Werner L. “Ferrarese Studies: An Agenda for the Future.” In La corte di 
Ferrara e il suo mecenatismo. Modena: Edizioni Panini / Ferrara: Istituto di Studi 
Rinascimentali / Copenhagen: Museum Tusculanum, 1990. 353-61. 

Heaney, Seamus. “Envies and Identifications: Dante and the Modern Poet.” Irish 
University Review 15 (1985): 5-19. 

Iannucci, Amilcare A. “Beatrice in Limbo: A Metaphoric Harrowing of Hell.” Dante 
Studies 97 (1979): 23-45. 

Jameson, Fredric. The Political Unconscious: Narrative as a Socially Symbolic Act. 
Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1981. 

Levin, Harry. Refractions: Essays in Comparative Literature. Oxford: Oxford UP, 
1966. 

Lewis, Charlton T., ed. A Latin Dictionary for Schools. Oxford: The Clarendon Press, 
1964. 

Mandelbaum, Allen. “Dante in His Age.” In Inferno. New York: Bantam, 1982. 

. The Savantasse of Montparnasse. New York: Sheep Meadow Press, 1987. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. “The American Criticism of Charles Singleton.” Dante Studies 
104 (1986): 27-44. 

. Dante, Poet of the Desert. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

Murrin, Michael. The Veil of Allegory. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 1969. 

L’ottimo commento della Divina commedia [Andrea Lancia]. Testo inedito d'un 
contemporaneo di Dante. Ed. Alessandro Torri. Pisa: N. Capurro, 1827-29. 

Pietro di Dante. Petri Allegherii super Dantis ipsius genitoris Comoediam 
commentarium, nunc primum in lucem editum. Ed. Vincenzo Nannucci. Firenze: 
G. Piatti, 1845. 

Porena, Manfredi. La divina commedia di Dante Alighieri. 3 vols. Bologna, 1946. 

Posner, Richard A. Law and Literature: A Misunderstood Relation. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1988. 

Rajna, Pio. Le fonti dell’Orlando furioso. Firenze: Sanson, 1900. 

Ross, Charles Stanley, trans. Matteo Maria Boiardo. Orlando innamorato. Berkeley: 
U of California P, 1989. 

Sayers, Dorothy. “The Art of Translating Dante.” Nottingham Medieval Studies. 9 
(1965), 15-31. 

Sapegno, Natalino. La divina commedia di Dante Alighieri. Milano: Mondadori, 
1957. 

Selmi, Francesco. Chiose anonime alla prima cantica della Divina commedia da un 
contemporaneo del Poeta, pubblicate da Francesco Selmi. Torino: Stamperia 
Reale, 1865. 

Tinkler-Villani, Valeria. Visions of Dante in English Poetry: Translation of the 
Commedia from Jonathan Richardson to William Blake. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 
1989. 





Zygmunt G. Baranski 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 
1949-1990* 


“Glosynge is a glorious thing, certeyn” 
(Chaucer, The Summoner's Tale 1.1793) 


Dante’s intellectual inquisitiveness is well-known. Maria Corti, not 
inappropriately, has talked of the poet’s “felicita mentale” to describe his 
fascination with the radically novel interpretations of Aristotle emanating from 
the universities of Paris and Bologna. Several critics have actually gone so far as 
to see in Dante “celui qui a lu tous les livres.” More than in his keen interest in 
the work of others, however, Dante pursued novitas in his own writings. He was 
consistently adamant as regards their uniqueness: “Cum neminem ante nos de 
vulgaris eloquentie doctrina quicquam inveniamus tractasse” (De vulgari 
eloquentia 1.1.1); “desidero . . . intemptatas ab aliis ostendere veritates” 
(Monarchia 1.1.3); and, in the Commedia, to make this same point about his 
originality as dramatically as possible, he actually had a poetic opponent 
announce the “newness” of his dolce stil. 

A writer, who starts from aesthetic and ideological positions of such 
self-confidence, range, and ambition, and who, at the same time, is as supremely 
successful as Dante in giving literary shape to his “extreme” creative aspirations, 
cannot but provide rich exegetical treasure. Dante’s texts “demand” to be read and 
interpreted: “Or ti riman, lettor, sovra ’1 tuo banco, / dietro pensando a cio che si 
preliba, / s’esser vuoi lieto assai prima che stanco. / Messo tho innanzi: omai 
per te ti ciba” (Par. 10.22-25). At the same time, as Susan Noakes has recently 
reminded us, his works are also subtle investigations into the processes of 
reading. It thus comes as no surprise that generations of readers have responded 
to the poet’s exegetical challenge: that moral imperative to gloss, systematize, 
and explicate which is at the very heart of Dante’s artistic and ideological 
purpose (though not all his critics — and especially not in recent years — have 
felt the need to acknowledge the poet’s general lesson regarding the close ties 
between ethics and interpretation). The very breadth of Dante’s art (and I use this 
phrase here as vaguely and as loosely as possible) guarantees its fascination. 
There’s something in it for everyone. 

For centuries, therefore, Dante has found the way to draw a heterogeneous 


* I should like to thank Maggie Baranski, Giulio Lepschy, and Shirley Vinall for their 
comments on an earlier version of this article. 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 59 


audience to his work. The multi-patterned variety of his kaleidoscopic vision, the 
source of his writing’s allure, has inspired — as was to be expected — a rich 
heterogeneity of critical reaction. To be read and discussed are obviously the 
fundamental prerequisites of any text; and particularly so of a body of work — 
like Dante’s — intent on promoting spiritual and cultural reform. Yet, every 
interpretation of the poet, however respectful and light its touch, by its inherent 
drive to critical closure, inevitably ends up — in Contini’s metaphor (Un’ idea 
120) — by “imprisoning” Dante and his oeuvre. Of course, this same general 
caveat can be made as regards the analysis of any author. However, such 
“reductionism” is especially problematic in the study of Dante, given his 
“totalizing” and multifaceted ambitions. Special responsibilities lie on the 
shoulders of his critics. 

The all-embracing qualities of Dante’s art have clear and significant cultural 
precedents. Behind each of the poet’s major works, there lies a universalizing 
“summative” design (and, in this respect, I look forward with interest to 
Giuseppe Mazzotta’s promised further studies on the Commedia’s 
“encyclopaedism”).! In order to underline this goal, Dante increasingly and ever 
more openly made clear that, in his writings, he was attempting to “imitate” that 
supreme auctor who had effortlessly penned “‘con amore in un volume, / cid che 
per l’universo si squaderna” (Par. 33.86-87). In this way, the poet believed that 
not only could he transcend every other human writer, but also that he could 
speak to everyone of their responsibilities in God’s scheme of things. It must 
never be forgotten that, according to medieval rhetorical and grammatical 
thought, only two “books,” those coming from the digitus Dei, were addressed 
to the whole of humanity. Dante’s truly massive literary, religious, and 
historical aims are the ultimate key, I believe, to understanding the genesis and 
logic of his oeuvre, as well as its novitas and its never-diminishing power to 
startle: what Eliot described as the Commedia’s “quality of surprise which Poe 
declared to be essential to poetry” (21) — an idea to which Harold Bloom has 
lately returned: “there are perpetual surprises in his Comedy for Dante himself, 
as for us, but there are no accidents” (44). As I suggested earlier, every page that 
the poet ever wrote requires an “active” reader who can appreciate how and why 
“accidents” might be textually planned. 

Dante’s oeuvre is thus significant not just in itself, but also for having been 
the stimulus behind much that has been new and important in literary criticism. 
Writing and exegesis are tightly bound together in his scheme of things; and the 
complex structures of medieval hermeneutics play a major role in the 
composition and, by extension, the interpretation of his works. It is noteworthy, 
therefore, that, until Dante had written the Commedia, the very idea that a work 
in the vernacular might merit the same exegetical attention as one written by a 


1 Mazzotta, “The Light of Venus”; “Teologia e esegesi biblica”; and “The American Criticism of 
Charles Singleton.” 


60 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


classical auctor was almost entirely unknown. The appearance in the Trecento of 
a rich tradition of commentaries to the poem, stimulated by its new 
interpretative demands, was an unprecedented development in the history of 
criticism (Minnis and Scott). As I had occasion to remark more generally 
elsewhere, “‘it is fitting . . . that the poet of the ‘new,’ whose richly fertile 
imagination constantly tested the limits of his world, should, in his turn, have 
continued to be assessed and reassessed in the light of the ever-changing 
interpretative schemes of those who have come after him. The shifting interplay 
between past and present is what keeps the analysis of literature alive” (149). 

My last statement would have been more satisfactory, however, if it had 
also talked about another “interplay,” that between the “Old World” and the 
“New.” There is little doubt in my mind that, since the nineteenth century, 
American interest in Dante, with its attendant scholarly endeavour, can 
confidently stand comparison with the poet’s reception in any other part of the 
world.? The actual volume of criticism itself is dauntingly impressive: well over 
3,000 studies in less than two centuries, of which more than half have appeared 
in the last forty or so years.? Simply to begin to think of attempting a critical 
survey of a body of work of such magnitude takes the breath away. 

Let me quickly stress, therefore, that this article has no such sweeping 
ambitions. When Dino Cervigni kindly invited me to cast a glance over “Dante 
and Modern American Criticism,” my first impulse was to decline. The very 
bulk of what had been written suggested that the project was well beyond my 
possibilities. Nor was it especially clear to me why I had been approached to 
write such a piece. Admittedly, I did have a long-standing interest in Dante’s 
fortuna, but that hardly seemed credentials enough. On reflection, however, I 
began to see logic in Cervigni’s move. In the last few years, the world of Dante 
scholarship in North America has undergone a major transformation. As the 
former widespread perception of a monolithic and hegemonic “allegorizing” 
dantismo americano has begun to fade, so American Dante studies have visibly, 
and I underline “visibly,” emerged in all their long-standing complexity and 
variety. Instead of one dominant “school,” we are now faced with a healthy 
jockeying for critical position in a recognizably pluralistic field. It thus made 
sense for someone not directly involved in these developments to look — from 
the outside — at American scholarship’s not inconsiderable achievements; and I 
did have the useful added advantage of not being a total “outsider,” since from 
1985 I have been a regular visitor to North America. 


2 For surveys of Dante’s fortuna in America, see Chiappelli; Giovannetti; Hollander, 
“Foreword”; Kleinhenz; La Piana; Marraro, “Bibliografia dantesca americana,” and “Dante negli 
Stati Uniti; Mathews; Paolucci; Pisanti, Dantismo americano, and “Stati Uniti d’ America;” 
Vallone 320-35. 

Giovannetti; Marraro, “Bibliografia dantesca americana,” and “Dante negli Stati Uniti;” for a 
critique of Marraro’s work, see Mathews. 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 61 


As I have just mentioned, this is not a survey: in no way is it meant to be 
exhaustive (no one is more acutely aware than I am that even well-known works 
and names will be missing from my pages); and it is difficult to think how 
comprehensiveness in examining an area as rich as American Dante scholarship 
might in any case be achieved. It is simply a series of personal reflections 
stimulated by some of the things that I have found interesting and striking in 
recent American writing on Dante. Although I hope that my reflections, and the 
judgements which underpin them, will not be dismissed as entirely arbitrary, but 
will be deemed instead to have some historical and critical validity, I am also 
sensitive to the fact that they are inescapably conditioned by my views of Dante 
and his work. Thus, my opening paragraphs are meant, inter alia, to provide a 
clue to my thinking on Dante, and, thereby, to how I feel he might best be 
approached critically. It seemed to me that laying my academic cards on the table 
was the least that I could do in circumstances which demand that I pass comment 
on the work of others; and, let me reiterate, central to my position is the belief 
that, to interpret Dante, one needs to keep to the forefront of one’s attention the 
implications of the poet’s own deep concern with universalism and exegesis. 

My notes are also not meant to be taken as an “objective” guide to what I 
deem to be “best” in American Dante criticism: a sort of academic hit parade. In 
fact, I believe that every analysis has its uses, and that usefulness and success are 
not necessarily synonymous. My aim is to deal with a few texts and trends 
which, as far as I am concerned, give a flavour and a sense of contemporary 
Dante studies in America. Individuals will play a secondary role in what follows, 
even though, per necessitatem, past and present Dantists will pass through my 
“fragments.” In this context, it is important to remember that when, in the 
future, scholars come to write better-balanced judgements and fuller histories of 
postwar American Dante studies than mine, they will exclusively base their 
assessments on textual evidence. 

One final and extremely important point of clarification: this article is 
written in that same spirit of friendship and appreciation which has invariably 
greeted me on each of my trips to America. 

Despite what I have just said about the way in which I intend to treat 
individuals in this article, it would be both churlish of me and dishonest not to 
acknowledge the impact which one individual and his work have had on the 
development and character of modern Dante studies in America; and I am sure 
that no one will be surprised that I intend to organize the rest of my discussion 
around an analysis of Charles Singleton’s influence and standing as a Dantist. 
For many years — I would estimate from about the end of the 1950s to the mid 
1980s — Singleton (and his followers) dominated and defined the field of 
American Dante scholarship. This did not mean that, during this same period, 
Dantists following different critical directions had somehow vanished in 
America; in fact, my guess would be that a majority of scholars continued to 
work outside the Singletonian paradigm. What happened to them was both quite 


62 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


simple and dramatic: they became “invisible,” as nationally and internationally, 
the study of Dante, the concept of allegory, North America, and the name of 
Charles Singleton became increasingly conflated. Thus, even though critics who 
declined to employ an allegorically based perspective continued to be read and 
published, their very real connections with America, on the other hand, did 
become progressively marginalized and ignored. To put it bluntly, they were 
seen as Dantists, rather than as American Dantists. Nor did their loss of origins 
entail an especially difficult process, nor even — with the benefit of hindsight 
— an especially surprising one. Given the European formation of so many of 
these scholars and, obviously, I speak of formation here in intellectual terms and 
not of nationality, their work could easily be seen within the context of 
well-established transnational critical traditions. It was Singleton, in fact, who 
did not “fit in”; and his “otherness” could conveniently be explained in the light 
of his American roots. These seem to me to be important issues, and I shall 
return to them at considerably greater length. For the moment, however, I want 
to carry on looking at some of the implications of Singleton’s dominance over 
Dante studies in America. 

It is important to underline that the idea of Singleton’s ascendancy over 
North American Dante scholarship is not a pat a posteriori invention. There is 
little doubt that, for at least three decades, a large number of scholars acutely felt 
that Singleton’s approach represented a very real critical obstacle to a fuller 
understanding of Dante, and that they themselves were being pushed out of the 
swim of things: “I do, however, fear that by now [in 1969] the shift of emphasis 
to doctrinal and structural exegesis may have entailed serious losses on the side 
of poetical immediacy” (Cambon 2); and, in his review of Cambon’s book, 
Bergin made a similar point: “he [Cambon] . . . makes his points without abuse 
of the new theological-Hellenistic jargon which — or so it often seems — is 
indispensable to critics of today. In fact, some of Cambon’s comments suggest a 
kind of ‘reactionary’ attitude. . . . In the Introduction he speaks fearlessly, 
though with courteous and appreciative respect of the new school” (99). The 
language might be somewhat coded, but its meaning in the American context of 
the time was loud and unambiguous (and even today these words lose none of 
their power and poignancy; in particular, that adverb “fearlessly” conceals a world 
of tensions). One interesting historical side-effect of this situation is that the 
controversy over Croce’s reading of the Commedia continued in America long 
after it had waned in Italy. In the opening pages of both Elements of Structure 
(7-8) and Journey to Beatrice (v-vi), Singleton had been harsh in his treatment of 
the philosopher. As a result, some of those who, in their turn, were not in 
sympathy with the critic’s allegorizing and theologizing anti-formalist reading of 
the poem, felt it necessary to defend Croce’s aestheticism — a useful reminder, 
as I focus on America, of the fundamental internationalism of interpretation. 

As I noted earlier the situation within American Dante studies has now 
changed. Neither Singleton nor anyone else holds sway. Variety is the new 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 63 


watchword. Yet this is a credo which is only slowly discovering a degree of 
self-confidence. Scholars are still all too prone nervously to cast their eyes over 
their shoulders. The shadow of Charles Singleton continues to loom large. This 
tension between past and present is especially evident in the several collaborative 
ventures which have characterized the last few years; ventures, which 
unanimously pride themselves on their catholicity of vision. While these 
endeavours stand as tangible proof of the change in climate, at the same time, 
they also reveal the strength of the bonds which continue to connect them to the 
forces of the past. The most important of these initiatives are the Lectura Dantis 
Americana and the journal Lectura Dantis, which, despite the similarities of their 
titles, are in fact quite independent of each other. 

The Lectura Dantis Americana, the first two volumes of which appeared in 
1989 (Cassell, Inferno 1; Jacoff and Stephany, Inferno 2), is an ambitious and 
interesting project. Published under the auspices of the Dante Society of 
America, it aims to provide book-length analyses of each of the cantos of the 
Commedia. Robert Hollander, Editor-in-Chief, explains its raison d’étre as 
follows: 


An enterprise like the Lectura Dantis Americana requires a reason for being. That 
nothing like it exists or has ever existed is not in itself sufficient. It is better to say 
that we possess commentaries aplenty and that we possess essays — Italian lecturae 
are abundant — on particular cantos by the fives and tens, but that we possess no 
happy blending of the two. We still have not said why an American series of this kind 
should exist in the first place. The answer to our question lies in the nature of the 
changing scholarly approaches to the Commedia which have descended from or 
surged up in reaction to the work completed and the stances taken by Singleton. 
(‘““Foreword” x-xi) 


And to illustrate these “changing scholarly approaches” and firmly to establish 
the Lectura’s critical liberalism, the opening cantos of Inferno have been 
entrusted to a strikingly heterogeneous group of dantisti, which includes Cassell, 
Jacoff, Stephany, Simonelli, Iannucci, and Barolini. 

Lectura Dantis, which first appeared in the Autumn of 1987 and which has 
quickly achieved considerable national and international success, is equally 
concerned to show off the wealth of American Dante studies. Founded, not by 
chance, under the auspices of Thomas Bergin, it is the brainchild of Tibor 
Wlassics (“Presentation” 1988, pp. 3-4), who, since the late Sixties, has 
vigorously and “independently” championed the stylistic analysis of Dante’s 
poetry. The journal’s hallmark is its willingness to accommodate contributions 
of any ideological and methodological hue: “Lectura Dantis addresses an audience 
of readers and contributors distinguished by vast critical diversity. Accordingly it 
extends its welcome to approaches of the widest variety and it firmly refuses to 
exclude any critically meritorious view” (Wlassics, “Presentation” 1988, p. 4). 
While it is only fair to mention that, for many years now, Dante Studies, as the 


64 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


official review of The Dante Society of America, has tried to give its readers a 
lead by maintaining a balanced editorial policy, Lectura Dantis glories in the 
energy and language of the new critical liberation. The most notable achievement 
to-date of Wlassics’s journal is the publication, just a few months ago, of the 
“first multivoice ‘American’ /ectura of Dante’s first cantica,” a lectura which 
“endeavors to represent all major critical approaches” and which has “resulted [in] 
a collection of great variety” (Wlassics, “Presentation” 1990, p. 3). Although 
Wlassics’s comments, and the scholarly enterprises they support, help to 
consolidate and confirm today’s critical openness in American Dante studies, it is 
nevertheless also true that they continue to be concerned with yesterday’s 
problems. Their focus is as much on the power exerted until very recently by the 
“Singletonian school,” as it is on the new demands of the present (Wlassics, 
“Endpaper” 110). Ultimately, little divides Bergin’s and Cambon’s complaints 
about the controlling force of “theological-Hellenistic jargon” from Wlassics’s 
declarations of methodological variety. 

The editors of the other collaborative projects make statements of intent 
which are not only similar to Hollander’s and Wlassics’s, but are also expressed 
in a language which is not dissimilar to theirs. What we are hearing is the 
difficult birth of the new voice of American Dante scholarship. Anthony 
Oldcorn, in introducing the American cycle of Letture classensi, declares: 
“Troppo spesso — forse proprio per la grande risonanza che ha avuto nel mondo 
del dantismo internazionale l’opera del pit insigne tra gli specialisti americani 
della generazione precedente, Charles S. Singleton appunto, e per la stessa natura 
problematica di quell’opera — troppo spesso, dicevo, si ha della critica dantesca 
americana una immagine monolitica. Noi, in questo ciclo, abbiamo voluto 
invece far toccare con mano la sua diversita e duttilita”; and a few sentences 
earlier he speaks of “la ricchezza e la varieta dello studio di Dante negli Stati 
Uniti d’America” (“Prefazione” 9-10). In his turn, in the “Foreword” to the 
special issue on Dante of Quaderni d’ italianistica, Amilcare Iannucci makes the 
same sort of points: “In keeping with its [the journal’s] editorial policy, no 
critical approach or ideology has been favoured. On the contrary, as editor of this 
special volume, I have attempted to include as many perspectives as possible” 
(vii).4 Indeed, Iannucci himself has long set an example in this direction, since, 
for many years, he has been taking a flexible critical line on Dante, allying a 
strong philological sense to a concern with allegory (in his case, Auerbach 
tempered by Singleton — I shall deal shortly with the problematic relationship 


4 See also the collections edited by Alessio and Hollander, by Cherchi and Mastrobuono, and by 
Di Scipio and Scaglione. It is noteworthy that even scholars with well-established 
neo-Singletonian credentials have recently begun to proclaim the need for “communal 
meditation” in Dante scholarship (Jacoff, “Models of Literary Influence in the Commedia” 173); 
as regards this last point, see also the collection of essays edited by Barblan, which brings 
together studies by Singletonian and non-Singletonian critics. 





| 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 65 


between these two famous alle goristi). 

Iannucci has interesting things to say, too, on how and why Singleton’s 
dominance has waned — the process whereby what he calls “the balance in the 
struggle for meaning” has altered: 


Let us take the situation in American Dante studies, which is certainly the most fluid 
and interesting at the moment. The struggle for meaning was triggered not so much 
by the passing of Singleton, who dominated American Dante criticism for thirty 
years as Croce once dominated the Italian scene, as by the ease and economy with 
which scholarly communication can be delivered today. Now all the voices that were 
marginalized by Singleton’s dominant discourse can be heard. Many of the initiatives 
in the field, including the establishment of /ecturae Dantis series and new specialized 
journals, come from what was once considered the periphery of Dante studies in 
America. Any attempt to impose meaning from the centre is doomed to failure. 
(‘“Foreword” vi) 


Iannucci’s explanations are suggestive, if not entirely persuasive. As I mentioned 
earlier, I believe that it was less a case of “non-Singletonian” “voices” not being 
“heard,” but rather more a case of their connections with America being 
“marginalized.” To put it simply, they were not seen as contributing to a 
specifically American brand of Dante studies. What has happened with the 
development of new communication technologies is that these “voices” have 
found it much easier to come together and assert their American provenance; and 
once their origins were recognized and accepted, then it was inevitable that their 
“authority” in America would grow. 

My differences with Iannucci are of emphasis rather than of substance, 
although I would add that other, “non-technological” causes, too, lie behind the 
waning of Singleton’s power. It seems to me that, more than most critical 
systems, Singletonian exegesis contains the mechanisms of its own demise. It is 
ultimately too reductive as a reading and too circular and solipsistic as a method; 
although, paradoxically, much of its power to persuade stems precisely from 
these “weaknesses.” I shall have more to say about these fascinating matters 
during the course of my article. Here, however, I want to concentrate on another 
recent change in the cultural climate which has also contributed to the shift in 
critical auctoritas in American Dante studies. 

As is well-known, Singleton’s allegorical approach privileges hermeneutical 
interpretation above other forms of reading. As such, regardless of their many 
other differences, a direct methodological line connects his way of reading with 
the modes of analysis of scholars who, in recent years, have brought some 
post-structuralist insights to bear on Dante’s poetry. And it is especially 
revealing in this context that most of these critics, beginning with John 
Freccero,> who is rightly deemed to be Singleton’s most important student, 


5 See, in particular, Freccero, Dante 93-109. On Freccero’s contribution as a Dantist, see 


66 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


should openly acknowledge their debts to the older man. Elsewhere in this issue, 
David Robey clarifies the reasons for the generally sober assimilation of 
post-structuralist ideas into the critical language of a small minority of American 
Dante scholars (and to the studies he examines, I would only add Jesse Gellrich’s 
intriguing The Idea of the Book in the Middle Ages). Yet, even the merest trace 
of post-structuralist ideology, with its emphasis on the permanent instability of 
language and, by extension, of interpretation, cannot but call into question a 
method, such as Singleton’s, which is so totally convinced of the “correctness” 
of its own reading: 


Is there perhaps a way by which we may see a necessary connection between that 
image of a Book of Memory which controls the outward form of the Vita Nuova and 
that analogy with Christ which is the principle of its inner form? In other words, can 
inner form be seen to give outward form? It can. 

(Essay 116) 


Thus, even a scholar like Giuseppe Mazzotta, who is only fleetingly touched by 
Derrida and de Man, and who has a strong commitment to an allegorical reading 
of Dante, ends up both by being critical of Singleton and by pointing to the 
problematic status of any interpretation of the Commedia (see, for instance, 
Dante, Poet of the Desert 268-74). As Mazzotta concludes, since as readers we 
are “‘outside of the text,” “to decide means that something is always left out, that 
the poem, bound to a world of representation made of absence and presence, has 
no simple truth to give” (268-69). It is ironic, therefore, that even scholars who 
in many ways can be considered as Singleton’s closest “heirs” should have had 
their part to play in reducing his influence. 

Yet, the real impact of post-structuralism as an agent of change in recent 
American Dante studies should not be sought in works which make explicit 
recourse to its theoretical positions. Even though most American Dante scholars 
make absolutely no reference to post-structuralist tenets, they cannot but have 
been influenced by them. Debates on critical theory now enjoy a central position 
in North American universities. As a result, the whole field of literary criticism 
— including Dante studies — has been thrown into a state of flux. The 1980s 
are not the 1950s; certainty, order, and univocality (traits, by the way, which 
Singleton took as intrinsically and appealingly medieval, though we know today 
that it is questionable whether this traditional image of the Middle Ages actually 
provides a satisfactory picture of the period) have given way to doubt, confusion, 
and plurilingualism. Singleton’s authoritarian approach has not just been 
unmasked, but it has also lost its relevance and appeal (although, as I shall go 
on to suggest, many of his discoveries should not be dismissed in the same 
manner). The shifts in American Dante studies are thus clearly part of a broader 


Botterill; Calenda; Jacoff, “Introduction.” 





Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 67 


general process of change; and it is noteworthy, therefore, that one of the main 
reasons for the generalized contemporary enthusiasm for theory is the belief that 
it can challenge and breakdown critical orthodoxies which, it is claimed, have for 
much too long exerted a suffocating control over every academic subject. 

Yet, despite all this theoretical ferment, present-day American Dantists 
remain largely “conservative” in their orientations (which in no way displeases 
me). Perhaps, before indulging in radical “deconstructions” of Dante’s oeuvre, 
they want to spend some time “publicly” enjoying all those other ways of 
reading which for so long had been relegated to the shadows. It is in fact striking 
that the theoretically more innovative studies of the poet have generally come 
from outside the world of Italian. This is part of a wider development, the 
present origins of which owe much to Singleton, although, equally, it should 
not be forgotten that, in America, there has long been a tradition of broad-based 
interest in Dante. Through his concern with the “humanities” in general and 
through his annotated English-language edition of the Commedia, Singleton 
succeeded in introducing Dante to a heterogeneous academic circle. And this is as 
it should be. Dante is not the special preserve of Italianists, just as Italianists are 
not immune to the cultural changes going on around them. The “universal” poet 
par excellence deserves the widest attention. This breadth of interest in his work 
is one of the most attractive and noteworthy traits of modern American Dante 
scholarship, and it is one which deserves to be emulated elsewhere. 

Present-day American Dante studies fascinate by their wealth and energy; 
yet, as I tried to demonstrate earlier, I am not persuaded that Singleton has 
become as marginal as some would have us believe. His hold has been weakened 
rather than broken. I do not simply mean by this that there are still scholars 
writing today whose intellectual descent can be traced back to Singleton without 
too many deviations. This is of course the case (and it is right and proper that 
this should continue to be so). It is enough to consider the work of some of 
those close to Freccero, whose studies, in recent years, have tended to be 
concentrated in the pages of Stanford Italian Review; or to read Anthony 
Cassell’s analyses of Dante’s relationship to the Church fathers and doctors 
(Dante’s Fearful Art of Justice; Inferno I); or to scrutinize Thomas Hart’s dense 
numerical and geometrical proposals regarding the Commedia’s structural 
organization, which have at their point of departure Singleton’s notorious article 
“The Poet’s Number at the Center”; or, finally, to peruse a book such as The 
Divine Comedy. Tracing God's Art by Marguerite Mills Chiarenza with its 
glowing endorsement of Singleton and Freccero and with its firm faith in the 
“incontrovertibility” of its own opinions (12-15). Rather, as evidence for my 
claim, I would repeat what I said earlier about the ways in which Singleton 
remains an obligatory reference-point even for the most diehard of his opponents. 
As today’s Dantists keep casting their critical eyes backwards, it is difficult not 
to see in the illustrious Professor from Johns Hopkins a force which is far from 
spent; and I wonder whether contemporary American Dante scholarship would be 


68 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


nearly as fruitful and energetic as it is, if Singleton were not there to act as an 
ideological counterpoint. What I find especially interesting about this situation 
are the reasons, both critical and cultural, for Singleton’s extraordinary success as 
a Dantist. It is on this key matter that I should now like to concentrate.® 

As I have already hinted several times, I believe that Singleton’s work on 
Dante boasts a number of quite substantial attributes that have worked in its 
favour. I do not simply mean by this that I think that his three books offer 
important insights into the Vita nuova and into the Commedia. | also feel that 
both their rhetoric and their method help to grant credibility to their author’s 
views. What renders Singleton’s writing deeply persuasive are his self-confidence 
in the correctness of his arguments and the way in which he presents his readings 
as arising “naturally” out of Dante’s own texts. It comes as no surprise — or at 
least not to me — that his books should have captivated the minds of so many 
scholars. There is something enticingly alluring (even reassuring) to hear 
Singleton declare that he is about to unveil the long-lost workings of the 
Commedia: 


This second volume of Dante Studies is aimed at bringing into view the main outline 
of allegory in the Comedy, and is written on the persuasion that, for some time now, 
we have been reading the great work in what amounts to an amputated version... . 
The lacunae are . . . in us, the readers, and reside in that deficient knowledge and lack 
of awareness which we continue to bring to our reading of the poem. . . . Dante’s 
allegory is explicit in the theology of his day. We have only to learn to recognize it 
there when we meet it. And when we become able to do this, then at once we find 
ourselves confronted with an embarrassment of riches. 

(Journey to Beatrice v-vi) 


And what gives more than just a veneer of solidity to these claims is the way in 
which, in the textual analyses which follow, Singleton unfailingly concentrates, 
often with considerable critical incisiveness, on giving substance to his declared 
aims and beliefs. It never hurts to have faith in one’s convictions. Yet, when it 
comes to matters of scholarship, such unflinching self-confidence is not without 
its attendant problems. 

For the moment, however, let me continue by highlighting what I see as 
the strengths of Singleton’s work. He is clearly correct both when he stresses the 
need to restore Dante to his intellectual context, and when he underlines, in 
Emile Male’s wake (Essay 3-4), what Jauss has since called the “‘alterity” of the 
Middle Ages. Thus, Singleton is at his best when he demonstrates the 


© There have been many interesting assessments of Singleton’s work and its impact; see, for 
instance, Bemardo; Chiampi 13-20; Contini, “Un libro americano”; Della Terza, “Singleton,” 
and “La critica dantesca in America”; Fido; Hollander, Allegory (passim); Mazzotta, “The 
American Criticism of Charles Singleton”; Raimondi; Scott, “Allegory in the ‘Purgatorio,’” and 
“Dante’s Allegory.” 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 69 


relationship between Dante’s work and certain widely circulating medieval 
cultural models. Particularly important is his emphasis on Dante’s debts to 
Biblical exegesis (although I also believe that the manner in which he worked 
out the details of this relationship is anything but convincing; more on this 
shortly). Singleton’s preoccupation with matters of structure and hermeneutics 
led him to his most important discoveries. First and foremost, he pointed out 
that, through their imitatio of God’s ways of writing, the libello and the 
Commedia deal with questions of salvation. More specifically, in his view, the 
religious ambition of both works has a direct effect upon their narrative and 
ideological organization, which, like the things of God, is essentially “circular” 
and “self-reflective.” Furthermore, as regards the Commedia, Singleton also 
explained that its specific links with the Bible imply that its account of the 
pilgrim’s journey through the afterlife needs to be read as if it were “true.” 
Another important result of the critic’s interest in Scriptural forms of 
interpretation is his emphasis on Dante as a “realist” poet: “If we will but look 
upon the world as he conceived it, we shall see that the art of this religious poet 
is essentially realism” (Dante’s “Commedia” 29). This last aspect of Singleton’s 
work has been widely forgotten, since it has been customary to draw a sharp 
distinction between his reading of Dante and Auerbach’s investigation of the 
Commedia’s dependence on “figural” allegory.’ 

This is an impressive, if not an especially overwhelming set of critical 
proposals. Yet, in the light of the state of Dante studies in the 1950s, if these 
proposals are considered individually, it is questionable to what extent they can 
be said to be particularly original. On the other hand, however, their synthesis 
into a unified reading of Dante’s oeuvre was certainly new, as were many of 
Singleton’s individual analyses. 

However well-presented and suggestive Singleton’s arguments might be, I 
must admit that, even after having read and re-read his books several times, I do 
find it difficult to account for his success simply on the basis of the content of 
his research. And I find this success all the more perplexing, when I am struck 
by the weaknesses in his arguments. In saying all this, I am in no way trying to 
denigrate Singleton’s undoubted achievements as a scholar. I am genuinely 
fascinated as to how and why he might have achieved his position of critical 
pre-eminence; and perhaps my interest is sharpened by the simple fact that I 
come from an academic tradition which has generally lacked the figure of the 
maestro. 

It may have seemed curious that, in listing what I consider to be the most 


7 As far as I know, in his studies on Dante, Auerbach does not make a single reference to 
Singleton. On the other hand, the American critic alludes at least once to Auerbach’s work, 
although the article which he cites, “Passio als Leidenschaft,” is not on Dante (Essay 130). For 
a glimpse of Singleton’s attitude to Auerbach, see Ioli 146. On the lack of contact between 
Auerbach and Singleton, see Freccero, review. 


70 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


significant aspects of Singleton’s work, I made no mention of the word 
“allegory” which, conventionally, is associated with his name. My omission 
was quite deliberate. I believe, in keeping with my earlier arguments concerning 
the “interpretability” of Dante’s oeuvre, that what is truly important in 
Singleton’s proposals is not his discussion of “allegory” (which, anyway, as I 
shall soon suggest, he discusses in a deeply problematical manner), but the way 
in which he pointed to the key role which medieval exegesis plays in the 
analysis of the poet’s texts. His interest in allegory, which certainly dominated 
much of his thinking, arose directly from this more general perception; 
although, in his studies, by concentrating largely on a personal view of the 
allegorical, he failed to reap the full benefit of his insight. From this 
perspective, regardless of their differences from and, at times, deep disagreements 
with Singleton, the studies of Dante’s poetics by Sarolli, by Hollander, and by 
Barolini or the essays on Dante and allegoresis edited by Michelangelo Picone 
are all, in fact, much closer to the most vital spirit of his work than the analyses 
of the majority of his “followers.” While proclaiming its faith in allegory, the 
“Singletonian school” has tended to focus its attention fairly narrowly on the 
minutiae of the Commedia’s enigmas and on its theological substratum. There is 
no question that research of this kind is often valuable. It is enough to think of 
Freccero’s unravelling of some of the poem’s more obscure lines, as well as his 
work on Dante’s links with neo-Platonism and St Augustine. And yet, for all 
their erudition, it is difficult to deny that such readings are ultimately 
unnecessarily reductive as regards both Dante and his world. In the Middle Ages, 
allegorical exegesis underpinned a whole way of seeing and understanding reality 
and its “books” (hence its applicability to Dante’s “encyclopaedic” poem, and it 
is on this broad-based view of allegory — I believe — that Dante scholarship 
should more concentrate its efforts). Medieval allegorical exegesis was thus far 
from being — as some of today’s critics would have it — simply a key with 
which to unlock localized textual problems. What is normally lost in such 
narrowly defined ideological analyses is a sense both of the Commedia’s range 
and of its poetry. And, given the nature of Dante’s art, these are no small 
omissions. 

Although Singleton was undoubtedly sensitive to the Commedia’s status as 
a poem and to its total effect, the weaknesses of his “school” are ultimately also 
the weaknesses of his own work. Let us begin by examining the implications of 
what he understood by the term “allegory.” 

It is first of all important to recognize that Singleton’s three books on 
Dante, for all their points of contact, do not, in effect, constitute a coherent and 
monolithic body of work. This simple fact has been almost universally forgotten 
both by his supporters and by his detractors; and, forgetting this, their 
appreciation of Singleton’s contribution as a Dantist has — in my view — been 
inevitably distorted. Thus, in An Essay on the “Vita nuova,” although he 
criticizes C. S. Lewis’s interpretation of Beatrice in The Allegory of Love 








Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 71 


(Essay 142), Singleton has a fairly traditional view of allegory. He presents this 
as equivalent to personification or, more generally, as the substitution of one 
thing by another. At the same time, however, unlike most Dantists of the 
period, he is aware of the important role which analogy played in medieval 
epistemology (Essay 22-24, 113-14, 161). Nevertheless, the distinctions he 
draws between allegory and analogy are not always appropriate. Thus, ironically, 
when he denies Beatrice’s allegorical status and proposes instead an analogy 
between her and Christ (Essay 22-24), what he is describing, in fact, is a type of 
symbolic relationship which the Middle Ages would have subsumed precisely 
under “allegory” rather than “analogy” (Armour 63-64): clear evidence of how 
limited was his understanding of the two terms. Similarly, in his second chapter, 
the critic does not connect his discussion of the “book of memory” and its 
relationship to “the Book of Creation and the Bible” (Essay 41, and see 25-54) to 
matters of allegory where, historically, it belongs. However, what would appear 
to confirm my argument about the limited and provisional nature of Singleton’s 
thinking at this early stage is the fact that what, in 1949, he termed “analogy” 
is, in fact, very close to what, a few years later, he would term “symbolism”: 
“the difference between being finally in Heaven where we shall see God directly 
and being finally still on this earth where we may know Him only through his 
creatures and by analogy” (Essay 103, and see also 161), and compare this 
statement with the following definition: “symbolism is Dante’s imitation of the 
structure of the real world . . . the created universe, in which things bespeak the 
invisible things of the Divine Architect, directing the inclination of our minds 
and hearts to Him” (Dante’s “Commedia” 29, 27).8 What emerges quite 
unambiguously from An Essay on the “Vita nuova” is Singleton’s sense of 
unease, even disquiet, with the concept of “allegory.” He does everything to 
distance it from Dante’s prosimetrum (Essay 22, 111, 142; Dante’s “Commedia” 
68-69); and he does this with a vigour which would not have displeased his 
opponent of a few years later, Benedetto Croce. 

Singleton became converted to allegory fairly rapidly in the months that 
followed the completion of his first book. By 1952, he had published two 
articles on the subject, which in 1954 were included in Dante Studies 1. 
“Commedia” : Elements of Structure (see “Dante’s Allegory” and “The Other 
Journey”): a book, which, taken as a whole, marks a clear development in his 
thinking on the poet. In this, inter alia, he established a distinction between two 
“modes of thought and feeling about the world” (Dante’s “Commedia” viii); 
“modes,” which, in his view, Dante drew on to organize the Commedia. He 


8 To complicate matters further, in Dante’s Commedia, Singleton subsumes both “symbolism” 
and “allegory” under “analogy”: “Allegory and symbolism are both given to this poet, as 
modes, out of the model which he had ever before him. They are, first of all (as we shall see) 
God’s way of writing. And analogy, in tum, is the comprehensive canon of art by which a 
medieval Christian poet could do his work as the realist he was” (viii). 


ae Zygmunt G. Barariski 


named these forms “symbolism” (his definition of which I have just given) and 
“allegory,” which he presented as equivalent to the “allegory of the theologians” 
(Dante’s “Commedia” 14-15), a way of reading whereby “events [in the Bible] 
(such as Exodus) yield the very sense of our journey [towards God]” (Dante's 
“Commedia” 27). In Dante’s hands, this “allegory” became both “the subjective 
dimension of the poem, this, of the total structure, being that part which brings 
in a spectator and renders account of the way in which the seeing of the souls 
came about” (Dante’s “Commedia” 19), and, somewhat more conventionally, 
“his [Dante’s] imitation of God’s other book, Holy Scripture” (Dante’s 
“Commedia” 29). Furthermore, close to his positions in An Essay on the “Vita 
nuova,” Singleton also insisted on the differences between Dante’s sense of 
allegory and its more limited and “external” applications in works such as 
Boethius’s Consolation of Philosophy (Dante's “Commedia” 71). 

Singleton’s discussion of the Commedia’s dependence on “symbolism” and 
“allegory” is undoubtedly interesting and constitutes an important step forward in 
our awareness of how Dante might relate to medieval processes of signification 
and interpretation. Particularly influential has been the stress that he laid on the 
poem’s links with the “allegory of the theologians.” Yet, at the same time, the 
distinctions he highlights between the two “modes” are often more apparent than 
real, while the ways in which he utilized his notion of “allegory” to develop his 
own textual analyses are much too restrictive. With the appearance, in 1958, of 
Dante Studies 2. Journey to Beatrice, these flaws, which remain implicit in his 
previous book, ever more visibly come to the surface. Thus, rather than examine 
the interplay in the Commedia between the four textual senses traditionally 
associated with the “allegory of the theologians,” Singleton limited his attention 
to the “moral” one. In addition, he perceived this sense simply in theological 
terms, thereby taking a perspective on the poem which, in fact, went against the 
wide-ranging practices of medieval “ethical” exegesis: 


we may .. . remark that Dante’s imitation of the moral allegory of Scripture bears an 
exact correspondence to its model, in time, place, and protagonist. . . . And even as 
the moral sense of conversion signified in the Exodus is quite undetermined as to time 
and person, so also is this moral sense of the Comedy... . For all its undetermined 
character in these respects, however, the conversion of the soul from sin to grace was 
not, in Dante’s time, without a precise doctrinal determination regarding its manner 
or shape as event. . . . It becomes the purpose of the following chapters to retrace that 
pattern as established in the theology of Dante’s day. 

(Journey to Beatrice 7) 


And this is precisely what Singleton does in his close textual readings of the 
Commedia. As I have already suggested, this kind of analysis, together with the 
approach legitimated by his earlier claim that “A single verse [of Dante’s poem] 
can make its own signal contribution” (Dante’s “Commedia” 35), have become 
the staple diet of his “followers.” Singleton’s school is made in his own image; 





Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 73 


although I would also maintain that there is more to Singleton the Dantist than 
would emerge from the writings of his descendants. 

What is striking about Journey to Beatrice is the way in which the notion of 
“symbolism” almost disappears from its pages. This is less surprising than one 
might think. The Middle Ages did not distinguish between God’s two “books” in 
that sharp clearcut fashion which Singleton claims to have been the case. Both 
works of creation were interpreted according to the same fourfold canons of the 
“allegory of the theologians.” It is, in fact, difficult to imagine how, in practice, 
Singleton might have separated the “symbolic” from the “allegorical” during the 
course of the sort of theologizing “moral” interpretation of the Commedia which 
he so strenuously championed. There is no doubt in my mind that Singleton 
employed both terms idiosyncratically and even anachronistically. His idea of 
“allegory” is extremely partial and can only be associated with medieval usage in 
a tangential manner. Similarly, his equation between “symbolism” and divine 
creation — as he himself admitted — was a personal invention (Dante’s 
“Commedia” 19; but see my discussion of Santayana below). At the same time, 
while Singleton’s definition of allegory and symbolism bear his clear individual 
imprint, the idea that a sharp distinction exists between the two concepts was 
not new. This notion has its origins in German Romanticism, and, before 
Singleton had applied it to the Commedia, it had already been employed in 
relation to the Middle Ages by Lewis (44-48) and in relation to Dante by Gilson 
(72-73, 265; for a fuller discussion of a number of the points raised in this 
paragraph, see Pépin 15-31). Furthermore, as is clear from An Essay on the 
“Vita nuova,” Singleton was familiar with the work of both these scholars. 

The weakness in Singleton’s discussion of allegory arises from one central 
problem: his “misreading” of what the Middle Ages understood by the “allegory 
of the theologians.” Yet, as is clear from his Appendix to Dante Studies 1 
(84-98), he did have a goodish sense of its range and implications. Singleton 
seems to have repressed this in the main body of his work, so as not to deflect 
attention from his claim that the major structure of the Commedia mirrors a 
“journey of salvation” (Journey to Beatrice 6-8). To have brought the 
“allegorical” and the “anagogical” into play alongside the “moral,” would 
necessarily have meant broadening his perspective. In this context, it becomes 
obvious why Singleton could not afford to take on board Auerbach’s 
“typological” or “allegorical” reading of the poem (and I am certain that it would 
be just as interesting to examine the possible reasons why the great German 
scholar, who, from 1947 until his death ten years later, taught in American 
universities, in his turn, chose to find Singleton’s proposals uncongenial). It 
was left to others, including some of Singleton’s “followers,” to demonstrate the 
advantages of bringing together these two famous “allegorizers.” The one, in 
fact, needs the other, since, in essence, what each did was to explore the impact 


74 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


of only a single aspect of the “allegory of the theologians” on the Commedia’s 
composition.’ It was equally left to others to pursue the poem’s debts to the 
whole system of the allegoria in factis. Perhaps the most noteworthy and 
influential of these broad-based studies still remains Robert Hollander’s Allegory 
in Dante’s “Commedia,” which appeared in 1969. Basing its arguments on a 
good historical understanding of the concept of allegory, the book highlights 
both the complexity of Dante’s theoretical perception of the term, and the variety 
and originality of his transformation of this abstract matter into the stuff of 
poetry. A further key component of this impressive study is its sense of the role 
of allegory in shaping Dante’s attitude to classical literature. 

Hollander’s interest in the Commedia’s “letter” and his concern with the 
impact of Latin culture on its composition have become increasingly central in 
his subsequent work on Dante, which has been marked by its sensitivity to the 
formal and ideological nuances of the poet’s texts. While some scholars have 
revised Singleton’s view of allegory, others have shown that more than just one 
structure underpins the Commedia. Among studies of this kind, I have especially 
enjoyed those by John Demaray and Jeffrey Schnapp. 

It is rather sad that a way of reading Dante which potentially is as flexible 
and wide-ranging as Singleton’s should, in practice, have become rigidly 
reductive. This has much to do with the critic’s unshakable belief that, in the 
theological notion of the itinerarium mentis ad Deum, he had discovered the 
ultimate key to the Commedia. Moreover, the manner in which Singleton 
presented his discovery leaves no doubt that he firmly believed that Dante, too, 
saw this scheme as the very essence of his poem, and thus would have been the 
first to confirm his proposal: “But the poem has not left outside itself the more 
precise pattern of that journey. It bears it within itself in such a way that when it 
points to it, it can be pointing to a pattern objective within the structure” 
(Dante’s “Commedia” 4; my italics), and again: “That such a journey [to God] 
here and now is an open possibility remains the basic postulate and, for Dante, 
the established doctrine on which he can construct the allegory of his Comedy” 
(Journey to Beatrice 5). 

I have already made it clear that I feel that Singleton derives part of his 
success from the self-confidence of his views. Nor does it really matter from this 
perspective that his criticism, as in the case of his recourse to allegory, is often 
based on philologically questionable premises. I am dealing here with issues of 
method and perception rather than of interpretation and substance. Yet, I have 
also hinted that, paradoxically, his method’s strengths are also its undoing. By 


9 In his 1960 article, “In Exitu Israel de Aegypto,” Singleton does apply all four senses of the 
“allegory of the theologians” to the Commedia. In Journey to Beatrice, Singleton also refers to 
other kinds of allegory, for instance, “historical allegory” (89) and “‘star allegory’” (176). 
These notions are the critic’s own invention, and can basically be retumed to the “moral” level 
of tradition. 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 75 


insisting on the “objective” correctness of his proposals, Singleton creates a 
“closed world” in which the great poet and the great scholar commune. The rest 
of us are left to listen, admire, and follow the critical advice that is offered. We 
are in the presence of “the reader who has grasped the whole conceptual structure 
of the Purgatorio” (Dante's “Commedia” 22), and who is thus able to reveal 
Dante’s most intimate intentions. In such circumstances, debate and dissent 
become redundant. In particular, given that, in conformity to Dante’s wishes, 
Singleton has conveniently mapped out the Commedia’s “master patterns” 
(Journey to Beatrice 12), all that is left for other scholars to do is to seek out 
supporting doctrinal evidence for these structures. And this is precisely what 
Singleton’s “followers” have faithfully chosen to do. 

Despite Singleton’s ability to build support for his cause, there can be no 
escaping the dogmatism of his positions; and the irritation of so many other 
critics, when faced with such inflexible attitudes, is more than understandable. 
However philologically “correct” a critical opinion might seem — and I have 
absolutely no doubt that a structure of “conversion” does underpin the Commedia 
— such an opinion cannot exhaust all the possibilities of a text. Nor, in 
studying literature, are we dealing with matters of such scientific precision that 
everyone must necessarily accept our proposals. Room must always be left for 
other interpretations; and we must never forget that our research is only a small 
part of a much larger whole, and that it is this whole which is ultimately most 
important. Any reading which denies these basic propositions has ultimately 
nowhere to go and no way of renewing itself. It thus comes as no surprise to 
learn that, little by little, Singleton’s “pupils have packed their Summae and set 
up shop slightly off premises” (Wlassics, “Endpaper” 110). The end of 
Singleton’s power is to be sought in its own beginnings. 

What is considerably more problematic than all this, however, are the 
implications of Singleton’s approach for our understanding of Dante. Its 
emphasis on doctrinal and structural matters reduces the poet’s oeuvre to a 
unidimensionality which is the very antithesis of Dante’s “plurilingual” and 
“encyclopaedic” ambitions. Furthermore, by presenting the Middle Ages as 
monolithic, it denies novitas to his work: “Dante as poet does not invent his 
patterns in allegory, but adopts them as notions already existing in the thought 
and doctrine of his day” (Journey to Beatrice 17). In many ways, once Dante’s 
originality has been curtailed, the critic and his rediscovery of a past long-lost to 
the eyes of the world cannot but move to centre-stage. We are back with what 
remains the least appealing part of Singleton’s criticism: its denial of other 
Critical voices. This attitude becomes almost emblematic in the way in which, in 
his two books on the Commedia, Singleton makes almost no reference to other 
Dante scholars.!° Since, unlike himself, these scholars had failed (or continued to 


10 The one exception to this approach is the “Appendix” in Dante’s “Commedia,” since, there, 
Singleton surveys the critical debate on Dante’s attitudes to allegory. The few Dante scholars 


76 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


fail) to appreciate the poem’s “truth,” Singleton seems to have felt that debate 
with them was unnecessary. There was thus no need for him (and for his school) 
to take note of the important work which other Dantists in America were doing 
either in the same areas as they were or in more distant fields such as stylistics, 
textual criticism, rhetoric, literary and philosophical source studies, biography, 
and history. And the variety of this work over the last forty years surpasses 
anything produced in other countries; and I can think of no better evidence than 
this polyphony of voices to back up my views about the fundamental wealth 
both of Dante’s oeuvre and of literary scholarship. 

Although, as far as I know, no other Dantist in North America has spread 
such thick a fog of silence over the studies of his peers as Singleton did, a 
tendency not to take the work of others into adequate consideration has probably 
been the one negative feature to unite a majority of American Dante scholars. 

While Europeans teaching in America have at times not paid enough 
attention to what was being produced locally, American-educated scholars have 
tended to by-pass even Italy’s fundamental contributions to Dante studies. Thus, 
the work of this century’s greatest Dantist, Gianfranco Contini, has had minimal 
influence on American dantismo. In fact, the study of Dante’s reworking of his 
classical and vernacular sources, which increasingly represents a point of contact 
for American scholars coming from different critical traditions, and which some 
have seen as a quintessentially American trend, was established in its present 
form precisely by Contini. Yet, despite this, it is rare to see his research cited in 
American publications. Just as it continues to be rare to read studies, such as 
those, let’s say, by Barolini, by Cervigni, by Hollander, or by Picone, in which 
one finds scholars in expert control of the vast bibliography on their subject. 
Although it is clear that there are reasons of critical partisanship and of 
intellectual nationalism behind this “poverty of reference,” which, thankfully, 
the new critical openness will increasingly break down, I do also feel that its 
causes are institutional. American scholars are under great pressure from tenure 
and promotion boards to publish with a certain degree of frequency. This 
inevitably means that it is especially difficult for Dantists — even with the 
invaluable help of the Dartmouth data bank — to chase up that myriad of critical 
references which are in some way relevant to the work that they are doing. And 
yet, because of the very mass of Dante scholarship, it seems imperative to me 
that every new study should locate itself within the tradition. I shall leave it to 
those on the ground to see how such tensions might be resolved. .. . 

What I find especially surprising about Singleton’s willingness to ignore 
other Dante scholars is that this goes against his own practice elsewhere. It is 
enough to look at his commentary to the Commedia or at his revised editions of 





that he does mention elsewhere in his two books, he invariably treats rather negatively; see, for 
instance, his comments on Croce (Dante's “Commedia” 16; Journey to Beatrice v-vi) and on C. 
S. Lewis (Dante's “Commedia” 68-69). 


Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 7 if 


Toynbee and Grandgent to find a critic deeply knowledgeable and respectful of the 
various achievements both of Dante scholarship and of medieval studies in 
general. The fact that, in his two books on the Commedia, he should have run 
so obviously counter to his own philological roots and inclinations highlights, 
perhaps better than anything I might say, how deeply and sincerely held were the 
views and positions he expressed in them. Yet, at the same time, it is his 
academically more conventional book on the Vita nuova, which I find his most 
satisfying achievement as a Dantist. Few other studies have managed to offer the 
same sense of the libello’s cultural complexity as his. It is thus fitting that his 
book has helped stimulate a rich vein of American analyses of the Vita nuova, of 
which the most important is undoubtedly Michelangelo Picone’s investigation 
of the prosimetrum’s reworking of the Romance vernacular erotic tradition. 

Whatever one might think about it, “Singletonianism” is a complicated, 
even contradictory, phenomenon. And I do not believe that anything that I have 
said so far ultimately quite explains its success in America. The main reason for 
this triumph — I suspect — lies in its having managed to tap into a 
recognizably indigenous vein. By bringing Dante and allegory together, 
Singleton was championing a way of reading the poet which had found limited 
favour in Europe (it is enough to think of Benedetto Croce’s and Karl Vossler’s 
highly influential dismissals of the importance of allegory in the Commedia; and 
see also Psaki). However, as a result of Singleton’s rapprochement, after decades 
of working in the shadow of European scholarship, American Dantism could at 
last claim to have found its own voice. Moreover, it was a voice which the rest 
of the world was prepared to acknowledge as specifically American. In such 
circumstances, it is not surprising that many should have rushed to Singleton’s 
banner, or that, as a result of the emotional charge and the seeming novelty of 
his proposals, they should also have failed to note the flaws in his arguments. 

It is too crude, however, to see the “Americanism” of Singleton’s work 
simply as a product of its “opposition” to or “rejection” of Europe. As is clear 
from the many pages of “Notes” to An Essay on the “Vita nuova” (117-68), 
Singleton’s own intellectual formation was heavily European. We thus find him 
approvingly referring to Anglade, Auerbach, Barbi, Busnelli, Casella, Curtius, 
Gilson, Jeanroy, Lewis, Male, Marigo, Maritain, Moore, Nardi, Proto, Rajna, 
Rousselot, Scherillo, Smalley, Spitzer, Toynbee, and Vandelli. Furthermore, it 
is not difficult to think how a number of these scholars could have helped shape 
his subsequent thinking on the Commedia. Yet, their influence, especially as 
regards Singleton’s standing in America, remains of secondary importance. What 
really counts is the extent to which his work is indebted to recognizably 
American intellectual and cultural traditions. It is this debt, I believe, which 
confirms and primarily sustains the American character of his criticism. 

This simple fact, however, has received little recognition. There seem to be 
two main reasons for this. First, Singleton made no explicit reference to such an 
American intellectual heritage; and, second, the seeming originality of his work 


78 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


has discouraged others to seek out its roots. Recently, things have begun to 
change. In a stimulating article, “The American Criticism of Charles Singleton,” 
Giuseppe Mazzotta has convincingly highlighted how Singleton’s thinking on 
Dante is in harmony with the ideology of the Puritan pilgrims, especially as this 
was reinterpreted in the work of Ralph Waldo Emerson (34-37). In addition, 
Mazzotta has suggested that Singleton also owes something to the tenets of the 
“New Criticism” (30-31). These are important proposals, although I should like 
to add that Singleton’s American debts do not end here. For instance, interesting 
bonds tie him to the Dante criticism of the leader of the “St Louis Hegelians,” 
William Torrey Harris, to that of George Santayana, and also to that of T. S. 
Eliot. It does not really matter that, as far as I know, Singleton never recognized 
his dues to these three thinkers. As with the influences on his work discussed by 
Mazzotta, they all belong to his cultural and intellectual memory as an American 
and, more specifically, as an American Dantist. They represent an inescapable 
part of his ideological baggage; just as they have continued to be part of the 
“national and scholarly memory” of his American readers. It is in this way, more 
than any other, that Singleton succeeded in tapping into that indigenous vein 
which I mentioned earlier. To read Singleton, was to hear the echoes of America. 

Despite the differences which divide Harris, Santayana, and Eliot from each 
other and also from Singleton, what immediately does unite all four of them is a 
common interest in Dante’s intellectual formation and in the ways in which his 
philosophical and theological knowledge affected his art. As Singleton was 
subsequently to do, the three older men, too, focused on allegory as the key 
mediator in this latter process; in addition, both Harris and Santayana make 
precise reference to the recourse Dante made to the “allegory of the theologians.” 
Harris observes that 


of all the great world-poems, unquestionably Dante’s “Divina Commedia” may be 
justly claimed to have a spiritual sense [which Harris had previously noted emerges 
from a poem’s structure, 94], for it possesses a philosophic system and admits of 
allegorical interpretation. . . . In the second Treatise (Chapter 1) of his “Convito” 
Dante tells us that it is possible to understand a book in four different ways. . . . they 
furnish, after a sort, a key to be kept in hand while we accompany our poet on his 
journey. 

(Harris 95, 99); 


while Santayana declares: 


When people brooded so much over a simple text as to find all these meanings in it 
[Santayana is referring to the discussion of the opening of Psalm 114 in the Epistle 
to Cangrande], we may expect that their own works, when meant to be profound, 
should have stage above stage of allegorical application. . . . Thus throughout the 
Divine Comedy, meaning and meaning lurk beneath the luminous pictures. 
(Santayana 98); 





Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 79 


and, finally, Eliot, too, notes allegory’s key role: 


What is important for my purpose is the fact that the allegorical method was a definite 
method not confined to Italy. . . . We have to consider the type of mind which by 
nature and practice tended to express itself in allegory. . . . All that I ask the reader, at 
this point, is to clear his mind, if he can, of every prejudice against allegory, and to 
admit at least that it was not a device to enable the uninspired to write verses, but 
really a mental habit. 

(Eliot 14-15). 


This is not all. Eliot, expressing sentiments which will be at the very heart 
of Singleton’s critical approach, stresses the fundamental need to recognize and 
accept Dante’s ideological world: 


But the question of what Dante “believed” is always relevant. . . . My point is that 
you cannot afford to ignore Dante’s philosophical and theological beliefs. . . . In 
reading Dante you must enter the world of thirteenth-century Catholicism, which is 
not the world of modern Catholicism. . . . If you can read poetry as poetry, you will 
“believe” in Dante’s theology exactly as you believe in the physical reality of his 
journey; that is, you suspend both belief and disbelief. . . . it is necessary to read the 
philosophical passages of Dante with the humility of a person visiting a new world, 
who admits that every part is essential to the whole. What is necessary to appreciate 
the poetry of the Purgatorio is not belief, but suspension of belief. 

(Eliot 35-38) 


More interestingly, Santayana, as Singleton would do after him, drew attention 
both to the medieval view of God as maker of providential signs and to Dante’s 
“imitation” of this divine attribute when he came to compose his own poetry. In 
particular, anticipating the literary critic, the great philosopher from Harvard 
employed the word “symbolism” to refer to God’s creation: 


In a world made by God for the illustration of his glory, things and events, though 
real, must be also symbolical. . . . this [Christian] theology was the guide to Dante’s 
imagination, and his general theme. . . . Symbolism and literalness, in Dante’s time, 
and in his practice, are simultaneous. . . . For Dante, it was a matter of course that 
moral distinctions might be discerned, not merely as they arise incidentally in human 
experience, but also, and more genuinely, as they are displayed in the order of 
creation. The Creator himself was a poet producing allegories. The material world was 
a parable which he had built out in space, and ordered to be enacted. History was a 
great charade. The symbols of earthly poets are words or images; the symbols of the 
divine poet were natural things and the fortunes of men. . . . Dante’s objectification 
of morality, his art of giving visible forms and local habitations to ideal virtues and 
vices, was for him a thoroughly serious philosophical exercise. God had created 
nature and life on that very principle. The poet’s method repeated the magic of 
Genesis. His symbolical imagination mirrored this symbolical world. 


80 Zygmunt G. Barariski 
(Santayana 80, 88, 99-100) 


Indeed, considered in its entirety, the originality in 1910 of Santayana’s analysis 
of the Commedia’s allegory and symbolism is quite striking. Despite his 
undoubted debts to nineteenth-century German philosophy, nobody since the 
Trecento — as far as I know — not even Friedrich Schelling, when he discussed 
the interplay in Dante’s poem between allegory, history, and symbolism (152- 
63), had dealt with the question of the Commedia’s “other” meanings with such 
sophistication and historical sensitivity. It is no exaggeration to claim that 
Santayana ought to be credited with having firmly established the “allegorical” 
identity of American Dante scholarship; and his impact on Singleton, who was 
preparing his two books on the Commedia precisely during his own time at 
Harvard, appears to have been far from negligible. 

Although, in his own work, Singleton developed the suggestions of his 
American forebears into a personal interpretation of Dante, it is difficult to 
ignore their points of contact. In fact, other elements which first appeared in the 
writings of his three predecessors shape his thinking on the poet. Thus, Eliot 
highlights the need to see the Commedia as a whole (22, 30); both Harris (110, 
113) and Santayana (74, 76, 87, 122) underline the importance of Platonic and 
Neoplatonic thought in Dante’s formation, while Harris also draws comparisons 
between the poet’s art and the Platonic concept of myth (99-114; Singleton, 
Dante's “Commedia” 61-83); both of them also note the importance of the idea 
of salvation for Dante (Harris 98; Santayana 119), to which Harris also adds that 
of justice (98; Singleton, Journey to Beatrice 57-71 ).!! 

However, all my talk of a specifically American tradition of Dante studies is 
not without its problems. Just a few months ago, Ricardo Quinones raised 
interesting objections to the possibility and desirability of an “American reading” 


11 Singleton’s relationship to Leo Spitzer also deserves to be analysed. It is indicative that, in 
An Essay on the “Vita nuova,” he should declare: “It was not possible to acknowledge in these 
notes a quite special debt owed to Leo Spitzer, colleague at the Johns Hopkins University — a 
debt of the kind that is hard to distinguish and hard to declare because contracted through daily 
association in scholarship and friendship for over ten years” (117) . During the course of his 
analysis of the /ibello, Singleton refers several times to Spitzer’s work (119, 135, 143). 
However, he does not allude to two studies which appear to have had a quite crucial bearing on 
his interpretation of the Vita nuova. Although Singleton concentrates on the implications of 
Dante’s use of the metaphor of the “book of memory” (Essay 25-54), he does not cite Spitzer's 
Bemerkungen zu Dantes “Vita Nuova,” which appeared in 1937, and which, in its second 
section, examines this very same question (this “observation” had previously been published as 
a separate article in 1925 in volume 45 of the Zeitschrift fiir romanische Philologie). Similarly, 
despite the stress that Singleton lays on the differences in the Vita nuova between the 
“protagonist of the action” and “that same person who . . . looks back upon” the events through 
which he has lived (Essay 8), the critic makes no mention of the Austrian scholar’s 1946 article 
published in Traditio, “Note on the Poetic and Empirical ‘I’ in Medieval Authors,” which 
examines the different guises of the first person persona in the Commedia. I leave it to others to 
look, in greater depth, at the implications of Singleton’s contacts with Spitzer. 





Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 81 


of Dante (148-50). And, undoubtedly, if it is to flourish, criticism cannot be 
circumscribed by geo-political boundaries — a belief which has sustained much 
of my argument so far. Yet, it is also true that national constraints do delimit 
the ways in which things are perceived. As Mazzotta has observed, “‘ America’, 
more than the disposition of a place, is itself a viewpoint, a perspective and a 
certain way of seeing the vicissitudes of texts and times” (“The American” 29). 
Nevertheless, if one insists too strongly on such national factors, then it is 
inevitable that other “viewpoints” will be ignored and marginalized; and, sadly, 
this is precisely what did happen in the world of Dante studies in America. One 
of the great advantages of the American university system is its size. It is thus 
able and willing to accommodate a truly international array of voices; and Dante 
studies today are increasingly becoming aware of the advantages of dialogue. At 
the same time, it is necessary to avoid the temptation to marginalize, in its turn, 
what is recognizably “national.” I accept that this might be difficult, especially 
when, until yesterday, such a “viewpoint” represented critical orthodoxy. It is in 
the fluid, honest, and creative interchange between national and international 
perspectives that scholarship’s best future lies. Whatever might have happened in 
the past, this does not constitute a valid reason for jettisoning Singleton. 
Although I have noted the extent to which he can still be said to be a “living 
force” today, it is the essentially oppositional and combative attitude towards 
him which, however comprehensible, I find somewhat worrying. Singleton’s 
work should be put into the common intellectual fund and approached critically 
rather than polemically. It is thus reassuring to note that this is precisely what is 
happening. I am thinking especially of Robert Harrison’s rereading of the Vita 
nuova and Teodolinda Barolini’s excellent work on the Commedia’s narrative 
strategies. Nor should it be forgotten that it is partly as a result of the complex 
and contradictory boost which Singleton gave to the study of the poet that North 
America can boast its present international pre-eminence in the area of Dante 
scholarship. In particular, Singleton has given Dantists in America a sense of 
“authority” and of self-confidence. Hence, the high standard of so much of their 
work; and, here, I should like to apologize to and ask the understanding of the 
countless scholars whose research I have been unable to mention explicitly. 
Nonetheless, I hope that they can draw some satisfaction from these 
“reflections,” since, without the backing of all their contributions, I would not 
have been able to describe contemporary American Dante studies in the positive 
terms that I have. Dante, I suspect, would not be displeased by the ways in 
which his American lettori have “fed” on his work. 


University of Reading 


82 Zygmunt G. Barariski 
Works Cited 


Alessio, Gian Carlo and Robert Hollander, eds. Studi americani su Dante. Milano: 
Franco Angeli, 1989. 

Alighieri, Dante. De vulgari eloquentia. Ed. Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo. In Opere 
minori. Tome II. Milano: Ricciardi, 1979. 1-237. 

. La Commedia secondo I'antica vulgata. Ed. Giorgio Petrocchi. 4 vols. 
Milano: Mondadori, 1966-67. 
. Monarchia. Ed. Pier Giorgio Ricci. Milano: Mondadori, 1965. 

Armour, Peter. “The Theme of Exodus in the First Two Cantos of the Purgatorio.” In 
Dante Soundings. Ed. David Nolan. Dublin: Irish Academic P, 1981. 59-99. 

Auerbach, Erich. Studi su Dante. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1966. 

Baranski, Zygmunt G. Review of Robin Kirkpatrick. Dante’s Inferno: Difficulty and 
Dead Poetry. Jeremy Tambling. Dante and Difference: Writing in the 
“Commedia.” Italian Studies 44 (1989): 149-51. 

Barblan, Giovanni, ed. Dante e la Bibbia. Firenze: Olschki, 1988. 

Barolini, Teodolinda. Dante's Poets. Textuality and Truth in the “Commedia.” 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1984. 

. “Dante’s Heaven of the Sun as a Meditation on Narrative.” Lettere italiane 
40 (1988): 3-36. 

. “Detheologizing Dante: For a ‘New Formalism’ in Dante Studies.” Quaderni 
d’italianistica 10.1-2 (1989): 35-53. 

. “Ricreare la creazione divina: ]’arte aracnea nella cornice dei superbi.” In 
Studi americani su Dante. Ed. Gian Carlo Alessio and Robert Hollander 145-64. 

Bergin, Thomas G. “Dante.” Jtalian Quarterly 16.62-63 (1972): 97-115. 

Bernardo, Aldo S. “Introduction. Charles S. Singleton and Dante Redivivus.” In 
Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio. Studies in the Italian Trecento In Honor of Charles 
S. Singleton. Ed. Aldo S. Bernardo and Anthony L. Pellegrini. Binghampton, 
New York: MRTS, 1983. 

Bloom, Harold. Ruin the Sacred Truths. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1989. 

Botterill, Steven. Review of John Freccero. Dante. The Poetics of Conversion. 
Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 3 (1988): 95-98. 

Calenda, Corrado. “Introduzione all’edizione italiana.” In John Freccero. Dante. La 

. poetica della conversione. 9-17. 

Cambon, Glauco. Dante’s Craft. Studies in Language and Style. Minneapolis: The U 
of Minnesota P, 1969. 

Cassell, Anthony K. Dante’s Fearful Art of Justice. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 1984. 

. Inferno I. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 1989. 

Cervigni, Dino S. Dante’s Poetry of Dreams. Firenze: Olschki, 1986. 

Cherchi, Paolo and Antonio Mastrobuono, eds. Lectura Dantis Newberryana. Vol. I. 
Evanston, Illinois: Northwestern UP, 1988. 

Chiampi, James Thomas. Shadowy Prefaces: Conversion and Writing in the “Divine 
Comedy.” Ravenna: Longo, 1981. 

Chiappelli, Fredi. “Dante in America.” In Dante Alighieri 1985: In memoriam 
Hermann Gmelin. Ed. Richard Baum and Willi Hirdt. Tiibingen: Stauffenburg, 
1985. 245-52. 





Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 83 


Contini, Gianfranco. Un’idea di Dante. Torino: Einaudi, 1976. 

. “Un libro americano su Dante.” In Un’ idea di Dante. 217-24. 

Corti, Maria. La felicita mentale. Nuove prospettive per Cavalcanti e Dante. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1983. 

Della Terza, Dante. “Singleton, Charles Southward.” Enciclopedia dantesca. Vol. V. 
Roma: Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana, 1976. 264-66. 

. “La critica dantesca in America: la lezione singletoniana.” In Letture 
classensi XVIII. Ed. Anthony Oldcorn. Ravenna: Longo, 1989. 131-44. 

Demaray, John G. The Invention of Dante’s Commedia. New Haven: Yale UP, 1974. 

Di Scipio, Giuseppe and Aldo Scaglione, eds. The “Divine Comedy” and the 
Encyclopedia of Arts and Sciences. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John 
Benjamins, 1988. 

Eliot, T. S. Dante [1929]. London: Faber and Faber, 1965. 

Fido, Franco. “Charles S. Singleton.” Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante Research and 
Interpretation 4 (1989): 63-77. 

Freccero, John. Dante. La poetica della conversione. Trans. of The Poetics of 
Conversion. Bologna: il Mulino, 1989. 

. Dante. The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. Rachel Jacoff. Cambridge, Mass. and 
London: Harvard UP, 1986. 

. Review of Erich Auerbach. Studi su Dante. Modern Language Notes 80 
(1965): 105-08. 

Gellrich, Jesse M. The Idea of the Book in the Middle Ages. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 
1985. 

Gilson, Etienne. Dante et la philosophie. Paris: Vrin, 1939. 

Giovannetti, Luciana. Dante in America. Bibliografia 1965-1980. Ravenna: Longo, 
1987. 

Harris, William Torrey. “The Spiritual Sense of Dante’s Divina commedia [1887].” In 
Dante in America. The First Two Centuries. Ed. A. Bartlett Giammatti. 
Binghampton, New York: MRTS, 1983. 87-115. 

Harrison, Robert Pogue. The Body of Beatrice. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 
1988. 

Hart, Thomas E. “Architecture and Text: The Florentine Baptistery in Dante’s 
Commedia.” Res Publica Litterarum 7 (1986): 155-74. 

. “Geometric Metaphor and Proportional Design in Dante’s Commedia.” In 
The “Divine Comedy” and the Encyclopedia of Arts and Sciences. Ed. Giuseppe 
Di Scipio and Aldo Scaglione. 95-146. 

. “The Cristo-Rhymes and Polyvalence as a Principle of Structure in Dante’s 
Commedia.” Dante Studies 105 (1987): 1-42. 

Hollander, Robert. Allegory in Dante's “Commedia.” Princeton: Princeton UP, 1969. 

. “Foreword.” In Anthony K. Cassell. Inferno I. ix-xv. 

. Studies in Dante. Ravenna: Longo, 1980. 

. Il Virgilio dantesco: tragedia nella “Commedia.” Firenze: Olschki, 1983. 

Iannucci, Amilcare. “Foreword.” Quaderni d’ italianistica 10.1-2 (1989): iii-vii. 

. Forma ed evento nella Divina commedia. Roma: Bulzoni, 1984. 

Ioli, Giovanna. “Con Matelda nel Maryland: a colloquio con Charles Singleton.” In 
Letture Classensi XVIII. Ed. Anthony Oldcorn. Ravenna: Longo, 1989. 145-63. 

Jacoff, Rachel. “Introduction.” In John Freccero. Dante. The Poetics of Conversion. 














84 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


iX-XVi. 

. “Models of Literary Influence in the Commedia.” In Medieval Texts & 
Contemporary Readers. Ed. Laurie A. Finke and Martin B. Shichtman. Ithaca: 
Cornell UP, 1987. 158-76. 

and William A. Stephany. Inferno II. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 
1989. 

Jauss, Hans Robert. Alteritat und Modernitat der mittelalterlichen Literatur. Munich: 
Fink Verlag, 1977. 

Kleinhenz, Christopher. “A Half-Century of Dante Scholarship in America.” In The 
“Divine Comedy” and the Encyclopedia of Arts and Sciences. Ed. Giuseppe Di 
Scipio and Aldo Scaglione. 1-13. 

La Piana, Angelina. Dante’s American Pilgrimage: A Historical Survey of Dante 
Studies in the United States, 1800-1944. New York: Kraus, 1973. 

Lewis, C. S. The Allegory of Love. 1936. London: Oxford UP, 1977. 

Marraro, Howard R. “Bibliografia dantesca americana dal Settecento al 1921.” Atti 
dell’Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti (Classe di Scienze Morali e 
Lettere) 123 (1964-65): 189-277. 

. “Dante negli Stati Uniti.” In Dante nel mondo. Eds. Vittore Branca and 
Ettore Caccia. Florence: Olschki, 1965. 433-559. 

Mathews, J. Chesley. Review of Vittore Branca and Ettore Caccia, eds. Dante nel 
mondo. Italica 45 (1968): 264-71. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

. “The Light of Venus and the Poetry of Dante.” In Magister Regis. Studies in 
Honor of R. E. Kaske. New York: Fordham UP, 1986. 147-69. 

. “Teologia e esegesi biblica (Par. III-IV).” In Dante e la Bibbia. Ed. Giovanni 
Barblan. 95-112. 

. “The American Criticism of Charles Singleton.” Dante Studies 104 (1986): 
27-44. 

Mills Chiarenza, Marguerite. The Divine Comedy: Tracing God's Art. Boston: 
Twayne Publishers, 1989. 

Minnis, A. J. and A. B. Scott with the assistance of David Wallace, eds. Medieval 
Literary Theory and Criticism c.llI0O-c.1375. Oxford: Clarendon P, 1988. 

Noakes, Susan. Timely Readings. Between Exegesis and Interpretation. Ithaca: 
Cornell UP, 1988. 

Oldcorn, Anthony. “Prefazione.” In Letture classensi XVIII. Ed. Anthony Oldcorn. 
Ravenna: Longo, 1989. 9-10. 

Paolucci, Anne, ed. Dante’s Influence on American writers 1776-1976. New York: 
Griffon House Publications, 1977. 

Pépin, Jean. Dante et la tradition de l’allégorie. Montréal: Institut d’Etudes 
Médiévales et Vrin, 1970. 

Picone, Michelangelo. “Vita nuova” e tradizione romanza. Padova: Liviana Editrice, 
1979. 

. “I trovatori di Dante: Bertran de Born.” Studi e problemi di critica testuale 19 
(1979): 71-94. 

. “Giraut de Bornelh nella prospettiva di Dante.” Vox Romanica 39 (1980): 
22-43. 

. “Paradiso IX: Folchetto e la diaspora trobadorica.” Medioevo romanzo 8 











Reflecting on Dante in America: 1949-1990 85 


(1981-83): 47-89. 

. “Dante e la tradizione arturiana.” Romanische Forschungen 94 (1982): 1-18. 

, ed. Dante e le forme dell’ allegoresi. Ravenna: Longo, 1987. 

. “Giulleria e poesia nella Commedia: una lettura intertestuale di Inferno 
XXI-XXII.” In Letture classensi XVIII. Ed. Anthony Oldcorn, Ravenna: Longo, 
1989. 11-30. 

Pisanti, Tommaso. “Stati Uniti d’America.” Enciclopedia dantesca. Vol V. Roma: 
Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana, 1976. 415-17. 

. Dantismo americano e altri saggi. Napoli: Loffredo, 1979. 

Psaki, Regina. “La critica dantesca ortodossa e gli allegoristi.” In L’idea deforme. 
Interpretazioni esoteriche di Dante. Ed. Maria Pia Pozzato. Milano: Bompiani, 
1989. 263-79. 

Quinones, Ricardo. Review of Anthony K. Cassell. Inferno I. Lectura Dantis: A Forum 
for Dante Research and Interpretation 6 (1990): 145-50. 

Raimondi, Ezio. “Conclusioni.” In Letture classensi XVIII. Ed. Anthony Oldcorn. 
Ravenna: Longo, 1989. 253-59. 

Santayana, George. Three Philosophical Poets. 1910. Garden City, New York: 
Doubleday Anchor Books, n.d. 

Sarolli, Gian Roberto. Prolegomena alla “Divina commedia.” Firenze: Olschki, 
1971. 

Schiller, Friedrich. “Uber Dante in philosophischer Beziehung.” 1803. In Samtliche 
Werke. Part I, vol. 5. Stuttgart: j. G. Cotta, 1859. 152-63. 

Schnapp, Jeffrey T. The Transfiguration of History at the Center of Dante's 
“Paradise.” Princeton: Princeton UP, 1986. 

Scott, John A. “Allegory in the Purgatorio.” Italica 37 (1960): 167-84. 

. “Dante’s Allegory.” Romance Philology 26 (1973): 558-91. 

Singleton, Charles S. “‘Dante’s Allegory.” Speculum 25 (1950): 78-86. 

. Dante Studies 1. “Commedia”: Elements of Structure. Cambridge: Harvard 
UP, 1954. Subsequently published as Dante’s “Commedia”: Elements of 
Structure. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1977. 

. Dante Studies 2. Journey to Beatrice. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1958. 
Subsequently published as Journey to Beatrice. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins 
UP, 1977. 

. An Essay on the “Vita nuova.” Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1949. 

. “In Exitu Israel de Aegypto.” 78th Annual Report of the Dante Society ( 
1960 ): 1-24. 

. “The Other Journey.” Kenyon Review 14 (1952): 189-206. 

. “The Poet’s Number at the Center.” Modern Language Notes 80 (1965): 1- 
10. 

, ed. Paget Toynbee. Dante Alighieri: His Life and Works. New York: Harper 

and Row, 1965. 

, ed. Paget Toynbee. A Dictionary of Proper Names and Notable Matters in the 

Works of Dante. Oxford: Clarendon P, 1968. 

, ed. Dante. La divina commedia. Ed. Charles H. Grandgent. Cambridge: 

Harvard UP, 1972. 

, ed. Dante. The Divine Comedy. 3 vols. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1970-75. 

, ed. Charles H. Grandgent. Companion to the Divine Comedy. Cambridge: 

















86 Zygmunt G. Barariski 


Harvard UP, 1975. 
Spitzer, Leo. “Note on the Poetic and Empirical ‘I’ in Medieval Authors.” Traditio 4 
(1946): 414-22. 
. Studi italiani. Milano: Vita e Pensiero, 1976. 
Vallone, Aldo. La critica dantesca nel Novecento. Florence: Olschki, 1976. 
Wlassics, Tibor. Interpretazioni di prosodia dantesca. Roma: Signorelli, 1972. 
. Dante narratore. Saggi sullo stile della “Commedia.” Firenze: Olschki, 
1975. 
. “Presentation.” Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante Research and 
Interpretation 1 (1987): 3. 
. “Endpaper.” Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 4 
(1989): 110-12. 
, ed. Dante’s “Divine Comedy.” Introductory Readings I: “Inferno.” 
Charlottesville: U of Virginia Printing Office, 1990. 
. “Presentation.” In Dante’s “Divine Comedy.” Introductory Readings I: 
“Inferno.” Whassics, ed. 3-4. 


” 































6 
Charee Seton at the jausy of Danie at 
fara Onails ia tie er TET ane RY Notably Ry 
» Dens echulartiio tow ered Dose Saanes Ccaan 
aon tes, Wii ety cate oopeg fe Gempenanl rats) Cleht 
bh el ruc thal cart 9 Se eee OT te Sm & 
eee > eit eet! i ofan Pike Le og Tt nH 4F Ghy Puls, 
- b ty ob : peat: die (feliva ine tes, 280 ew naka LA Pras 
SORE tascam finaly ae tats unto on 987 ied “ee oe aed forts 
ep Br RPP is | "nad Vo wre sill Wor win = math oto 107 
POOP hah eae Sire eyed? Ara ie aa ALAR 
me the UH se Hae addy Shue Ste. uirldvinee eu totthn RAP BOGOR 
MRE SAS, be hh Ayy BAY ear HAP as > Ag 
a yaa" ne sit PII cis TS ne Attiestue? Aho Rae 
poetics nt ee TST Bonar MRRSIT eth f Ss Si" Vs r= TOY 
OV ties Seed oop ‘ a a tialy te or he ABS SS" is ly 5 hope diet ¥) Makneg 
Pela Gey vit! © AAveeAe A oe eee ty ty Seat ACE od vd Ni 
‘Bes Peppy iid Fe Sinusitis Pips? HEY '9- Aigo! WAtoagh 






bic a arheAies SU ASURSeiy OTE 407 Lind PTR OHOHE 
jitertey Sty R en SY Hii bit? | an ee Goh Yar te tte *n) + anil: 
Bits Paso ie HS dad ornare pa jean? Shih Hheqeay ca pith htt 
rf ae pat i dace avi setts His ned Yio reir 
“t } Ce Chats ve tO Were: vd SBedihoet Ll” 6! ent ‘oh 
are a Rn RGF aT KA ANA to yaesods eects qitigrisy 
af ooh, . Pale atea pitch, es | Taal afl ren SHA? Lies 
: 3 V i “alert ui t om e i i 
pa eet om He | Postal ro ail ta Yt i le at hil 
pica hdaniede Re SIRF Aik oe eat com en hen ied alt 
vibyblitifaan cas Tir thy GEsive! aaa) Qe mete seeaig «oT th! cae ore ereynie! mneiir 
‘phere € gptepm vid eiseigiecethiiesimn i sore A ext) Wt sae tal 
Wig Died) cae Ai (4 Liven wT law pliedaititer Of tha citelien 1h eon eo eh 
Aptemrsei vic gti erie a 4h GB's raecneky Ta gees taepeie. Hen ae 
B soetssial 0o dante ge ene vio luge die " pr Bad free 


; ny is wii ai a bas 
Renate Oe say Sg te en AT 
ra rie PL. ANAS AD Tet Eee ae fy aH. 


PL Sa ss Palas < a. orn of Nd 6, Bit i 
eee ae i 
n Bilao. \ os ekey es g be sieve 
Le ae Dee ff BROPRY, 
‘. 
ih) 


ping ane, oun. Deh, 

serve lit Blea New analdelee 
ny pitt, : esd aes aie ra 
PRET esr oN marae hatte 


































Steven Botterill 


Dante Studies 
and the Study of Dante 


For more than a century now, the history of Dante studies in America has also 
been the history of Dante Studies. This is true even though the journal only 
adopted that name at a comparatively late stage in its career. Not until fully 
eighty-three issues had appeared did the snappy new title supersede the original, 
tediously bureaucratic, Annual Report of the Dante Society — or rather 
supplement it, since the journal’s official designation, little used in common 
parlance but attested on the cover of each new issue (and in the acronym used for 
it by the MLA Directory of Periodicals — DSARDS), yokes the two elements 
together to produce a precise but cumbersome appellation that only a 
bibliographer could love. The practiced medievalists who make up most of the 
journal’s readership are, no doubt, aware that “nomina sunt consequentia rerum,” 
and may thus suspect that such apparently innocuous changes, far from being 
merely cosmetic, will usually have a deeper significance (a lesson to be learned, 
for instance, from the onomastic instability of Ser Ciappelletto). This was 
certainly the case with the début of Dante Studies with the Annual Report of the 
Dante Society in 1966. The journal’s re-naming was specifically intended to 
both accompany and signify a change in the nature and scope of its activities: 


For some time the Council has been seeking a way to expand the Reports and make 
them more significant. . . . The present issue, therefore, continues as the eighty- 
fourth volume of the Annual Reports of the Dante Society, while assuming a new and 
larger role as reflected in the modified title and format. . . . It is our hope that Dante 
Studies will attract the best that American scholarship has to offer. 

(Gifford 1966 v) 


These hopes and intentions, expressed by the Dante Society of America’s 
then President in his foreword to the first issue of Dante Studies in its new 
guise, would seem, a quarter-century later, to have been more than adequately 
fulfilled. In 1990, Dante Studies is not only a “significant” but an essential 
point of reference for anyone interested in tracing and understanding American 
academia’s continuing engagement with the temporally and culturally remote 
writings of the long-dead Florentine whose name the journal bears. It has 
established itself securely in the select company of scholarly publications 
devoted entirely to studies in Dante’s life and works (Studi danteschi, 
L’ Alighieri, Letture classensi, Deutsches Dante-Jahrbuch), and until very 
recently it had no rival, in this respect, anywhere in the English-speaking world. 


Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 89 


(The emergence of Lectura Dantis in the late 1980s as a new and notably feisty 
presence in American Dante scholarship has ended Dante Studies’ claim to 
uniqueness, without, so far, seriously endangering its dominant status.) Cliché 
though it may be, it is still true that each successive number of the journal is 
eagerly awaited by its subscribers, their anticipation having been, if anything, 
sharpened by the production delays that have dogged Dante Studies of late — the 
1982 issue finally saw the light in 1987 — but which heroic editorial efforts 
seem finally to have overcome. 

The purpose of this article, then, will be to examine briefly how Dante 
Studies arrived at its position as the flagship of Dante studies in America, and to 
consider how its prestige has enabled it to function, consciously or otherwise, as 
a crucially powerful influence in the definition, evaluation, and communication 
of the values, interests, and critical practices embodied in the work of (mainly) 
North American scholars of Dante in the last three decades — an influence whose 
benign neutrality we have, perhaps, been too quick to take for granted. 

Presenting the Society’s freshly baptized infant to the world in 1966, 
George H. Gifford was anxious to stress the essential continuity between Dante 
Studies and the Annual Report of the Dante Society. But the journal in which 
his words appeared was very different, in both size and scope, from the first issue 
of its late nineteenth-century ancestor. The Annual Report began life as just that: 
a brief chronicle of meetings, record of elections, and register of members, 
which, though its subscribers were no doubt glad to have it, perhaps did not 
greatly enliven many a Bostonian breakfast-table in that distant spring of 1882. 
A year later, the title-page bore a Gothic inscription coyly announcing the 
addition of an “Appendix” to the official matter (which turned out to be an 
edition of Leonardo Bruni Aretino’s Vita di Dante); the third issue contained a 
bibliography of recent publications connected with Dante; and in 1885 the 
Annual Report printed its first piece of criticism, a set of “Additional Notes to 
the Divine Comedy” by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. From then on, the 
custom of supplementing the factual record of the Dante Society’s activities with 
material of more permanent and wide-ranging interest was firmly established. 
From 1885 to 1936 each issue in turn included at least one such “Appendix,” 
sometimes as many as three (1891, 1892, 1895, 1901, 1909, 1930, 1934), and, 
in the annus mirabilis of 1910, no fewer than four. After 1889 these pieces were 
called “Accompanying Papers,” an epithet which, while maintaining the 
impression that the chronicling of the Dante Society’s doings was still the 
principal justification for the journal’s existence, also helped to raise its more 
scholarly portions from their original appendicular status. 

At the beginning of its history, the character of the Annual Report was 
Clearly definable in at least three ways: by the distinction of its contributors (as 
well as Longfellow, James Russell Lowell, Paget Toynbee, Charles Eliot 
Norton, and Edward Moore all published there in the 1880s and 1890s), their 
narrow geographical distribution (all the early contributors were from New 


90 Steven Botterill 


England or Great Britain, and most of them, as the list above implies, were 
based at Harvard or Oxford Universities), and, most importantly, by the 
essentially practical nature of the articles that the journal saw fit to publish. The 
large majority of the papers in the early numbers of the Annual Report were 
either bibliographical, philological, or documentary in nature, with only a rare 
essay like George R. Carpenter’s “The Episode of the Donna Pietosa” (1889: 21- 
79) or Lucy Allen Paton’s “The Personal Character of Dante as Revealed in his 
Writings” (1892: 73-109 — the first contribution to the journal by a woman) to 
relieve the austerity of William C. Lane’s regular bibliographies (1884, 1887 
through 1895, 1898, 1904, 1908), Carpenter’s own compilations of biographical 
documents (1891, 1892), or Toynbee’s indexes of proper names in Dante’s 
minor works (1894) and Benvenuto da Imola’s commentary (1899-1900). 
Unglamorous and outdated though much of this material may seem today, it 
was, of course, immensely important for the development of a body of positive 
knowledge and critical instrumentation in and around Dante studies, and is all too 
easily taken for granted, even condescended to, by those of us who unthinkingly 
enjoy the convenience and reliability of so many excellent research tools for 
which Toynbee and Carpenter would have given a great deal — and which 
frequently build on their efforts — from the Enciclopedia dantesca to the 
Dartmouth Dante Project. 

In its formative years, then, the Annual Report was conceived primarily as a 
practical aid for those engaged in textual, historical, or linguistic research on 
Dante, rather than as a vehicle for the presentation of new exegetical studies of 
his work; and in this, clearly, it reflected the predominantly positivist and 
pragmatic orientation of the literary scholarship of its time. After the turn of the 
century, however, signs of an alteration in the journal’s concerns became more 
and more apparent. The bibliographies continued to appear (as they do, 
fortunately, to this day); matters of textual criticism and philology continued to 
be discussed (Hamilton, 1901; White, 1902); and much energy was devoted to 
the questions of method raised by the intended compilation of a set of 
concordances to Dante’s works (Sheldon, 1903; McKenzie, 1906; Wilkins, 
1910; Rand, 1910). But the Annual Report also began to publish the winning 
essays in the Society’s annual competition for college students (Post, 1907; 
Lafferty, 1911; Keniston, 1912), and these, being more discursive and 
interpretative in nature (even if sometimes no more than tangential to Dante), 
helped to found a tradition of such material in the journal. The change of 
direction was accelerated by the regular appearance of critical “notes” by such as 
Charles H. Grandgent (1902, 1910) and Ernest Hatch Wilkins (1915); and, 
although William C. Lane’s list of “Additions to the Dante Collection in the 
Harvard College Library (May 1, 1908 — May 1, 1916)” appeared in solitary 
splendor as the accompanying paper to the thirty-fifth Annual Report in 1916 (1- 
46), by the end of the First World War the journal’s shift in interest had become 
definitive. Henceforth, its practical and utilitarian features were to be 


Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 91 


subordinated to the perceived need for a forum where points of exegesis and 
interpretative hypotheses could be presented and debated. Though not ceasing to 
be a journal of record for the Dante Society, the Annual Report began to 
function as a clearing-house for Dante studies and scholars far beyond 
Cambridge, Massachusetts and Oxford, England. 

In the immediate postwar period, the Annual Report continued to embody 
many of the positive features that had distinguished it since its earliest days. The 
eminence of the contributors remained unquestionable (Grandgent, Wilkins, and 
Toynbee between them authored nine of the fifteen articles published between 
1918 and 1936, and their colleagues in print included Kenneth McKenzie [1934], 
J. E. Shaw [1936], and G. A. Borgese [1936]); the limited geographical focus of 
the early years expanded — perhaps not before time — to include Italy (Donini 
in 1930 was the journal’s first publication in Italian); and the quality of the 
contributions (if we except some deathless verse, such as Gray, 1924) was 
uniformly high. There were also, however, some more negative aspects to the 
journal’s history between the wars. The dominance of a very few individual 
contributors (albeit of stellar quality) replaced the more plurivocal arrangements 
of the earlier period, in which graduate students and senior professors might find 
themselves published side by side; and growing financial difficulties began to 
impede regular publication during the 1920s, to the point where three Annual 
Reports had to be combined in the issues dated 1924 to 1926, two in those of 
1928 and 1930, and three again in those of 1934 and 1936. With this last issue, 
indeed, the Annual Report arrived at a truly paradoxical situation — 
unprecedented substance and prestige in a time of unprecedented material poverty 
— from which it was not to emerge until after the Second World War. 

The 1951 issue of the Annual Report, the first to appear in fifteen years 
(thanks as much to the journal’s financial crisis as to the war), combined the 
fifty-fifth through sixty-seventh chronicles of the Society, included an 
accompanying paper by Emest Hatch Wilkins (aptly entitled “Reminiscence and 
Anticipation in the Divine Comedy” 1-13), and inaugurated a transitional phase 
in the journal’s history that both drew on its rich past and pointed towards its 
variegated future, which was to culminate in the emergence of Dante Studies in 
its present form. Wilkins, of course, belonged to an older generation of 
American Dantists — though he was to publish in the Annual Report through 
the 1950s and beyond (1954, 1956, 1957, 1961), his début, with an excursus on 
the methodological problems associated with concordances, had taken place as 
long ago as 1910 — and he thus incarnated what had long since been recognized 
as a distinguished scholarly tradition (his fellow-contributors to the 1910 issue 
were Grandgent, Toynbee, and E. K. Rand). But when the Annual Report next 
appeared, in 1954 (with what was to be the last of the money-saving multiple 
issues, thanks to that year’s internal reorganization of the Dante Society), a short 
piece by Wilkins was printed, significantly enough, alongside the first 
contribution to the journal’s pages by the man who, more than any other 


92 Steven Botterill 


individual, was to set the contemporary agenda for both the Annual Report and 
the study of Dante in America: Charles S. Singleton. 

The 1950s were, beyond question, the Singleton years, as far as the Annual 
Report of the Dante Society was concerned. In that decade’s issues he published, 
one after another, a series of monumental articles (1954, 1956, 1957, 1960) that 
simultaneously established his towering reputation in the United States and, in 
combination with the three remarkable books he produced between 1949 and 
1958, several articles printed in other journals, and, eventually, the massive 
translation of and commentary on the Commedia that began to appear in 1970, 
provided the central texts for an exegetical revolution among American scholars 
of Dante. These texts will be familiar to almost all readers of the present article, 
and the years since Singleton’s death in 1985 have seen the appearance of a 
number of interesting — and occasionally controversial — accounts and 
evaluations of his scholarly contribution; but it may none the less be useful to 
review the basic tenets of his approach, in the light of that approach’s 
consequences for the subsequent evolution of the Annual Report into Dante 
Studies , and of Dante Studies itself into the pre-eminent organ of American 
Dante scholarship. For it will be the underlying contention of the remainder of 
this article, that, rather as Western philosophy, in Alfred North Whitehead’s 
phrase, is a series of footnotes to Plato, so Dante Studies has, by and large, 
come to constitute an enormous glossa ordinaria on the gospel according to 
Singleton. 

To attempt to extract a few fundamental principles from the daunting mass 
of Singleton’s published work on Dante is, of course, likely to prove a 
dangerously reductive exercise in over-simplification: here as so often — and 
perhaps more literally than usual — God is in the details. Fortunately, however, 
the extended metacritical reflection among American Dantists that followed 
Singleton’s death has produced much valuable analysis of the essential elements 
of his approach; and a broad agreement, at least as to the cardinal issues, may be 
detected in the commemorative writings of such as Dante Della Terza (1986), 
Giuseppe Mazzotta (1986), and Franco Fido (1989). According to Mazzotta’s 
especially felicitous synthesis, those issues are “[Singleton’s] theological reading 
of the Vita Nuova; the formulation of the allegory of theologians and of the 
Biblical exodus as the fundamental structure of the Divine Comedy; the 
distinction between Dante-character and Dante-poet as a dialectical play on which 
rests the articulation of the text; the principle of retrospection, that is, the 
Augustinian idea that the sense of a poem or a life comes to light only at its 
conclusion; and, finally, the splendid discovery of number symmetries at the 
poem’s center” (Mazzotta, ““The American Criticism of Charles Singleton” 28). 

It is perhaps worth saying — if only because it is so rarely said — that the 
universal validity of many of these principles remains open to question, 
especially when, as often happens, later writers on Dante use them with less tact 
and intelligence than Singleton himself invariably displayed. The “theological” 








Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 93 


reading of the Vita nuova, for instance, is capable of seriously distorting the 
nature and function of secular themes and poetics in Dante’s youthful libello 
(just as the theological reading of the Commedia tends to do with the poem’s 
debt to classical culture and its interest in socio-political reality). Moreover, by 
projecting the concerns of the Dante who later in life became “nullius dogmatis 
expers” back on to the author of the Vita nuova, it runs the risk of producing the 
misleadingly anachronistic impression that the Dante of the 1290s was already a 
fully fledged theologus-poeta. Likewise, concentration on the “allegory of 
theologians” as the foundation for a comprehensive reading of the Commedia 
risks underestimating the complexity of Dante’s poetics (the hermeneutical 
diversity attested by the early commentators on the poem is surely evidence 
enough that, even within Dante’s own culture, no single interpretative key was 
seen as fitting the lock); and, fatally, it can easily distract attention from the 
already demanding obligation to read on the literal level, by consistently 
subordinating study of what the poem itself says and does to the expression of 
what the critic chooses to think it is about. (It might be added, in this context, 
that the widespread and largely unquestioning acceptance in America of Dante’s 
authorship of the Letter to Can Grande, arguably the single most damaging 
exegetical shibboleth in contemporary Dante studies, is ultimately traceable to 
Singleton’s authority.) The character-poet distinction frequently needs to be 
refined by closer attention to the strategies and perspective of Dante-narrator, 
who often appears in the text as a voice identifiable with neither of the more 
obvious personas. Finally, the identification of number symmetries at the 
poem’s center (or anywhere else), for all the fascinating parallels and resonances 
it can evoke, too often founders on stern historical reality: an audience listening 
to an oral performance of the Commedia or reading it in a manuscript without 
line-numbers — the audience for which the poem was intended, that is — 
simply cannot have been expected to perceive, much less interpret, patterns and 
correspondences whose emergence is not merely facilitated, but sometimes only 
made possible, by modern typographical conveniences and conventions. That 
Dante may have created such patterns for his own — or God’s — satisfaction (as 
Singleton himself suggests, “The Poet’s Number at the Center”10), or even have 
left them like so many caches of buried treasure for a more alert generation of 
readers to discover (as Mazzotta implies, “The American Criticism of Charles 
Singleton” 28), is far from impossible; but they cannot have been intended to be 
an indispensable guide to the satisfactory interpretation of the poem. 

Our present concern, however, is less with the intrinsic merits of 
Singleton’s general principles or detailed arguments than with the consequences, 
for Dante studies and Dante Studies, of their wholesale appropriation and 
dissemination by a later generation of scholars. Foremost among these, perhaps, 
is Singleton’s own pupil John Freccero; and, emblematically, his was the first 
name to appear on the contents page of the reborn Dante Studies in 1966. For 
although Freccero himself was to publish comparatively seldom in the journal 


94 Steven Botterill 


(1966, 1968, 1973), his pupils, colleagues, and associates have done so more 
frequently, and his influence on it has thus been at least as pervasive as 
Singleton’s own in the 1950s or C. H. Grandgent’s after the First World War. 
The story of Freccero’s own career is, in part, that of a growth away from the 
Singletonian model (as a chronological reading of the articles collected in his 
magisterial Dante: The Poetics of Conversion [1986] clearly demonstrates); but 
it should be noted that the most significant American Dantist of the 1970s and 
1980s was a crucial figure, from the earliest phase of his published career, in the 
communication and, so to speak, canonization of Singleton’s thinking and 
methods. 

Whether mediated through Freccero or not, Singleton’s influence has been 
perceptible at every level of the journal’s activity since its renaissance as Dante 
Studies. (A trivial, but concrete, illustration: of the seven articles in the 1985 
issue, five mention Singleton’s name approvingly on the first page, three of 
them in the first paragraph; no other critic is cited in these incipits more than 
once.) It may, then, be useful to see what are the chief characteristics of the 
journal in its current incarnation, and to assess how much they owe to 
Singleton’s pivotal role in recent American Dante scholarship. 

Perhaps the most immediately striking aspect of Dante Studies today, in the 
sense that it is revealed by even a cursory glance at the journal’s contents, is the 
sheer quantity of articles and the diversity of their authors. The 1966 issue 
already printed more articles than had ever before appeared in a single Annual 
Report, and one average issue nowadays provides space for more individual 
contributors than did the whole run of the journal between 1918 and 1951. More 
than one hundred scholars, from North America, Europe, and, more recently, 
Australia, have seen their work appear between the covers of Dante Studies in 
the last twenty-five years. In part this is due to the massive expansion of higher 
education worldwide in recent decades, and to the corresponding increase in 
output of trained scholars and teachers of Dante; but, in America at least, the 
growth of interest in and knowledge about Dante owes more than a little to 
Singleton’s efforts and example, not least to the popularity of his translation and 
commentary, as well as to the outstanding efficacy of his teaching (touchingly 
evoked by Cassell, viii-ix). The journal has also reverted to its turn-of-the- 
century practice of regularly publishing not only established scholars but also 
neophytes, some (though, interestingly, by no means all) of whom have gone 
on to become well-known Dantists in their turn. (That this has been a matter of 
editorial policy is confirmed by the forewords to the 1968 and 1985 issues.) 

Dante Studies has also been notably hospitable to scholars whose training 
and affiliations lie outside the field of Italian studies as such: for good or ill, it 
is possible in America to be a Dantist without being an Italianist, and Dante 
Studies, in its concern to publish relevant and interesting material regardless of 
departmental or disciplinary origin, has done much to encourage this 
phenomenon. Here too the modern journal is faithful to the traditions of its 


Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 95 


nineteenth-century predecessor: inspired, no doubt, by John Ruskin’s mid- 
Victorian perception that Dante was “the central man of all the world,” and not 
just the literary icon of resurgent Italian nationalism, the learned Bostonians who 
formed the Dante Society were, from the beginning, at least as anxious to absorb 
Dante into their own intellectual tradition as to explore his, or to engage with 
the contemporary Italian culture that descended from it. (Interesting work remains 
to be done on the ambiguous Americanizing of Dante in the late nineteenth 
century, nourished as it was by a reverence for the Italian past based on unspoken 
disdain for the Italian present — an attitude tellingly documented in the early 
novels of Henry James, himself a product of the same intellectual and social 
milieu as the Dante Society.) In this context, Giuseppe Mazzotta’s recent 
pioneering attempt to “place Singleton in the perspective of America” (29), 
which involves relating him to the Bostonian tradition and specifically to 
Emerson, acquires illuminatory force for the history of Singleton’s influence on 
Dante Studies as well. 

Perhaps more interesting than these personalia is the question of the 
scholarship that the revitalized Dante Studies’ numerous contributors have 
managed to produce. It would, of course, be inadvisable to try to impose 
homogenizing interpretative criteria on so large and varied a body of material; 
but some tentative conclusions about the journal’s overall orientation may still 
be reached, as long as it is borne in mind that we are talking about emergent 
tendencies rather than preconceived programs, and that any apparent move in a 
given critical direction is likely to inspire a counter-move within a few issues of 
the journal. Consensus of principle need not always produce uniformity of 
practice. 

First, consider the subject-matter of the contributions. The inclusiveness of 
the journal’s title — which, at least implicitly, holds out the promise of 
openness to study of anything and everything to do with Dante’s work — has 
not always been reflected in its contents. Statistical evidence can be particularly 
revealing in this respect. Since 1966 Dante Studies has published nearly two 
hundred articles (discounting bibliographies, obituaries, review articles, and 
occasional announcements). Of these, by my reckoning, over eighty per cent 
(157 out of 191) have been wholly or substantially concerned with the 
Commedia. This figure includes nine articles based on comparison between 
Dante and some other author or artist (in each of which the Commedia is the 
chief or only text taken into consideration), as well as seven studies of 
commentaries on the poem (Guido da Pisa’s, Benvenuto da Imola’s, and 
Cristoforo Landino’s among them); but even without these, over seventy per 
cent of the articles in Dante Studies have dealt mostly or exclusively with the 
poem. Of these 141 pieces, twenty-six range across more than one cantica in 
pursuit of some common theme, technique, or image, while 115 are firmly 
focused on either Inferno, Purgatorio, or Paradiso. Among these the distribution 
of interest is equally noteworthy: twenty-five articles on Paradiso, twenty-eight 


96 Steven Botterill 


on Purgatorio, sixty-two on Inferno. Forty-four per cent of the articles on the 
Commedia, thirty-two per cent — nearly one-third — of all the articles Dante 
Studies has ever published, have been centered on the first cantica. Still more 
minute analysis shows an interesting disparity among the various cantos of 
Inferno itself. Some — cantos 1, 5, 13, 19, 26 — have been the object of 
repeated attention; others — cantos 7, 8, 11, 18, 21-22, 30-32 — have yet to 
provide the focal point for a contribution to the journal. (Readers may like to 
reflect at their leisure on what, if anything, these two groups of cantos have in 
common.) 

In themselves, these preponderances are not particularly surprising. It is 
common knowledge — and for once common knowledge seems to be a reliable 
guide — that Inferno is the most widely read and intensively studied (dare one 
say, most popular?) of Dante’s texts, that many readers — especially students — 
never get, or are required to get, past Lucifer to the rest of the narrative, and that 
too many readers of Inferno remain at best vaguely aware that Dante ever wrote 
anything else. For them as for Cole Porter, our author inevitably remains 
“Inferno’s Dante.” When to the pedagogical fixation on Inferno is added the 
enduring truth that images of vice are more attractive than images of virtue, you 
have at least part of the reason for the limitation of popular interest to that text. 
Scholarly interest, of course, is another matter (though it is probably affected by 
popular perceptions and institutional demands to a greater degree than some 
would care to admit). Scholars continue to find excellent reasons for occupying 
themselves with /nferno; and as yet there is no need to think of suggesting a 
moratorium on such research, however appealing the idea may seem in moments 
of unusual weariness of spirit. Indeed, it would be foolish enough to assert that 
six-and-a-half centuries of exegesis have even come close to exhausting /nferno’s 
interest for us (Singleton and Freccero between them have resoundingly proved 
the contrary). But though it may be predictable, and perhaps even justifiable, this 
heavy concentration on the first cantica, with its concomitant diversion of 
interest from Purgatorio and Paradiso, remains somehow depressing. It creates an 
appreciation of the Commedia and its message(s) that is unduly weighted towards 
questions of sin, judgement, and punishment, to the detriment of the intellectual 
and spiritual liberation offered in Purgatorio and Paradiso; it reinforces the 
hostile popular perception (widespread among people who have never read him) 
of Dante’s work as a museum of Gothic horrors presided over by a gloomy and 
embittered psychopath; and it works to undermine the brilliant — and eminently 
Singletonian — insight that the fullest possible meaning of the poem can only 
emerge in retrospect, from the vantage-point of Paradiso 33, when the whole of 
Dante personaggio’s experience and Dante poeta’s technique can at last be 
integrated into a satisfactory and fully informed reading. The remarkable 
preoccupation with the minutiae of Jnferno manifested in the cumulative history | 
of Dante Studies may have helped to distort modern understanding of the poem, 
just as the equally remarkable preoccupation with the Commedia that emerges 





Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 97 


from its pages may have done for Dante’s work as a whole. 

The comparative neglect of Dante’s other texts through the journal’s history 
is also striking: nine articles on the Vita nuova, five on the Convivio, three on 
the Rime, one each on De vulgari eloquentia, Monarchia, and the Quaestio de 
aqua et terra. These are, of course, often referred to as Dante’s opere minori, and, 
in comparison with the Commedia, rightly so; but, at a time when Dante 
scholars in both Europe and America (one thinks of Maria Corti, Zygmunt 
Barariski, Robert Pogue Harrison) are busily and fruitfully engaged in deepening 
our knowledge of these texts and their cultural matrix, and in re-asserting their 
value both as autonomous artefacts and in their relationship with the poem, it is 
hard to suppress the feeling that Dante Studies has not yet begun to play its 
proper part in this area. Indeed, an even more significant disparity is visible 
within the group of articles devoted to the opere minori themselves: there are 
seventeen on the Italian texts (Vita nuova, Convivio, Rime) and precisely three 
on the Latin ones (De vulgari eloquentia, Monarchia, Quaestio — the journal 
has never published anything on the Epistole or the Egloge). The Dante studied 
in Dante Studies — quite unlike his historical counterpart — is to all intents and 
purposes monolingual. 

How are the journal’s sustained attention to the Commedia and relative 
disregard of Dante’s other works to be explained? The proximate cause is no 
doubt the nature of its contributors’ interests: the editors of Dante Studies 
cannot be expected to publish many articles on the opere minori if few are 
submitted, and a number of editorial laments down the years have suggested that 
this is indeed the case. (Moreover, five of the twenty pieces on the minor works, 
including the first ever on the Monarchia, have appeared in the last five years, 
which is a good omen; as is, perhaps, the fact that the 1987 issue was the first 
to include no article on /nferno.) The more remote but more significant causes 
may well, however, be connected with the nature of American Dantism itself, 
and, to some extent, with the role played in defining that nature by the work of 
Charles S. Singleton. 

Singleton’s own work on Dante is, of course, overwhelmingly concerned 
with the Commedia and the Vita nuova, and in that respect Dante Studies has 
followed loyally in his footsteps. But there is a reason for this trend that goes 
beyond the intrinsic value and canonical status of these texts themselves to 
involve the basic elements of Singleton’s critical practice, as defined earlier by 
Giuseppe Mazzotta. To put it bluntly, with the Commedia and the Vita nuova 
Singleton’s method works; but it works with them alone, because it rests on the 
idea that the essential function of writing is to be narrative. (Singleton’s lifelong 
interest in the Decameron, a narrative paradigm of almost equal prestige with the 
Commedia, is also relevant here.) As critical instruments, all his central 
principles — the allegory of theologians, the Biblical exodus, the personaggio- 
poeta distinction, the principle of retrospection, and the number symmetries — 
are, fundamentally, attempts to understand Dante’s narrative technique, means of 


98 Steven Botterill 


exploring the crucial problem of the Commedia’s fictional status vis-a-vis its 
claims to truth, ways of elaborating the Commedia’s literal narration into what 
Singleton presumably found a more satisfying and resonant metanarrative, 
inherent in, or at least deducible from, the text of Dante’s poem. What they do 
not and cannot deal with are the Commedia’s non-narrative features — its 
rhetoric, its ideology, its ambiguity at the literal level — and as a result, in the 
wrong hands, they can easily inspire an inattention to, or a misreading of, the 
literal narrative, whose consequences for interpretation are equally deleterious. 

The identification of allegorical meaning in the Commedia, when elevated 
into a principle, thus comes to legitimate the creation of the critic’s own 
narrative alongside — or rather beyond — that of the Commedia itself: it is 
now Singleton, not Dante, who spells out what is to be found “sotto ’! velame 
de li versi strani” (Inf. 9: 63). But none of this is possible with the Latin works: 
De vulgari eloquentia and Monarchia are in no sense works of narrative, they 
contain neither allegorical “velame” to be pierced nor “versi strani” requiring 
explication, and they firmly rebuff the critic’s attempts to become their author. 
For this reason they are resistant to Singleton’s method; and so, perhaps, they 
are ignored by his devotees. The centrality of narrative in the Singietonian 
scheme may also help to account for the amount of attention his admirers have 
bestowed on /nferno (eleven of the seventeen articles in Freccero’s Dante: The 
Poetics of Conversion, for instance, are devoted to that cantica). Narrative 
requires representation — of characters, places, events, encounters — and to 
some extent it requires drama, or at least the sense of things happening. This 
sense is strongest by far in Inferno, just as Dante’s representational anxieties are 
most acute there, so that the progress of the poem as a whole is what Freccero 
calls “a gradual attenuation of the bond between poetry and representation” 
(Freccero, Dante 210); to which I would add that it is also a “gradual attenuation” 
of poetry’s commitment to narrative. (How much really happens in Paradiso?) It 
is perhaps no coincidence that Singleton sees the poem’s central narrative event 
as a “journey to Beatrice” — a journey which ends, of course, in the Earthly 
Paradise rather than the celestial one. (Paradiso is a journey with Beatrice: not at 
all the same thing.) At any rate, his allegorical principles yield much more 
convincing results when applied to /nferno and Purgatorio than they do in 
Paradiso, and the consequent predilection for the more obviously narrative 
cantiche seems to be faithfully reflected in the contents of Dante Studies. 

Careful study of those contents will soon reveal, in fact, the degree to which 
the Singletonian foregrounding of the allegorical reading of narrative elements 
has become the received wisdom of the journal’s contributors. After Freccero’s 
“Dante’s Prologue Scene,” articles in this vein come thick and fast, many with 
self-revealing titles (from “Dante’s Ulysses and the Allegorical Journey” by 
Thompson onwards), but also taking in theoretical analyses of the nature of 
Dante’s allegory (Lanapoppi; Thompson, “Figure and Allegory in the 
Commedia”; Simonelli, a notably non-Singletonian, though not anti- 





Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 99 


Singletonian, study; Priest), as well as innumerable readings of this or that detail 
of the Commedia’s narrative — readings that usually seek to integrate their 
chosen passage into a broader allegorical scheme whose validity is guaranteed, 
for many of their authors, chiefly by Singleton’s own authority. In many of 
these the guiding principle seems to be that there must be an allegorical 
significance in the problematic detail — because Singleton says so — and that 
the critic’s duty is therefore to burrow through the undergrowth of scholastic 
(generally Thomist) theology until he or she has ferreted it out. The idea of 
burrowing through the poem in search of enlightenment, or of bringing the 
minor works into the discussion, or of branching out beyond the inevitable 
Aquinas and Augustine towards sources, Christian or classical, more explicitly 
acknowledged or more clearly recognizable as influential within the Commedia, 
seems not to occur to some contributors as often as it might; for that way lies 
philology. 

The avoidance, elision, or what a mealy-mouthed modern locution calls 
“bracketing” of philology — in the sense of a criticism informed by close 
attention to the formal properties of language — is one aspect of Singleton’s 
legacy to Dante Studies that the editor of the Decameron and the Canti 
carnascialeschi del Rinascimento would probably not have approved (though see 
Della Terza, “Charles S. Singleton: An Appraisal,” 9-11, on Singleton’s “quite 
drastic shift of allegiance from textual philology to hermeneutics”). In the 
context of mid-twentieth-century Dante criticism, it is tempting to see the 
abiding Singletonian interest in narrative and its machinations less as a rejection 
of the philological (of which the Dante commentary proves Singleton to have 
been well aware) than as a riposte to the hegemony of Crocean aestheticism. For 
where Croce would have us ignore the creaking mechanism of the Commedia’s 
plot, urging us rather to extract and savor its moments of lyric intensity like 
Little Jack Horner pulling the plums out of his pie, Singleton seems so anxious 
for us to absorb the poem’s message in its entirety by contemplating, in 
retrospect, its allegorical structure, that he hurries us past the textual fabric of 
the Commedia with barely a word, as though somehow perennially embarrassed 
that his revered theologus should also have chosen to be a poeta. His readings are 
all sense and no sensibility; and it is fitting that his accurate but leaden 
translation should so definitively be in prose. His followers inherit and make a 
principle of this tendency to analyze a meaning divorced from the means of its 
expression: you will search long and hard in the files of Dante Studies for an 
article that deals substantially with the Commedia’s metrics, syntax, or 
phonology, and when you find it it will probably not be by an American. Few 
candles are lighted on this altar to Roman Jakobson or Leo Spitzer. (Contini, 
“Philology and Dante Exegesis,” and Russo, “Paradiso XIX: similis fictio 
numquam facta fuit per aliquem poetam,” are shining exceptions: neither, 
unsurprisingly, originated on this side of the Atlantic.) It is wholly predictable 
that the journal’s “Centennial Index” in the 1982 issue should contain, under 


100 Steven Botterill 


“Divine Comedy,” eight titles on “allegory” and one on “figure,” but nothing at 
all on “prosody,” “‘style,” “poetics,” or even “language.” 

There is, of course, nothing whatever wrong with this in principle. 
Singleton was a great scholar, his work is of considerable and probably lasting 
value, and nothing could be more natural than that others, especially his pupils, 
should wish to use his insights and hypotheses, and extend the applications of 
his method in their own work. If that means preferring some texts or some 
critical techniques to others, so be it. But the problem, as far as Dante Studies is 
concerned, is that other voices have been drowned out by the heavenly chorus of 
Singletonian orthodoxy. By becoming closely identifiable with a particular 
critical approach, and by giving that approach more generous accommodation 
than any other throughout its history, Dante Studies has, no doubt unwittingly, 
helped to create the impression that there is no other valid way to read the 
Commedia (let alone the minor works) in contemporary America, or indeed in 
contemporary Italy. (The disproportion between some contributors’ close 
familiarity with American scholarship and their scanty knowledge of its Italian 
counterpart can be startling.) The validity of the Singletonian project thus 
becomes self-confirming and self-sustaining. Meanwhile, many Dantists who are 
interested in other ways of reading the Commedia, not to mention interested in 
other texts, publish in Dante Studies seldom if at all; and the univocal tenor of 
recent issues, especially when set against the accumulated weight of the journal’s 
past, has at times threatened to produce a growing effect of stagnation and 
monotony. 

The journal’s newly appointed editor will need to counteract this threat; and, 
luckily, he seems to be the ideal candidate for this uniquely demanding post. For 
the editor of Dante Studies in the 1990s carries a formidable burden of 
responsibility for the future of the subject. Universal recognition of the journal’s 
standing means that it is often taken, especially overseas, as in some sense the 
official mouthpiece of American scholars of Dante. It is precisely for this reason 
that Dante Studies needs to be open to all varieties of interpretation, to expand 
its coverage to include all aspects of Dante’s work, and to avoid too close 
assimilation to any individual, group, or tendency. If it can do this, while 
building on the traditions and achievements of which past editors and 
contributors can rightly be proud, it will become still more effective in helping 
readers, teachers, and scholars to see Dante steadily — and see him whole. 


University of California at Berkeley 





Dante Studies and the Study of Dante 101 
Works Cited 


(Purely bibliographical material has been excluded. All dates for issues of the Annual 
Report of the Dante Society (here ARDS) and Dante Studies with the Annual Report of 
the Dante Society (DSARDS) are the notional, rather than actual, dates of 
publication.) 


Borgese, G. A. “On Dante Criticism.” ARDS 52-54 (1936): 19-70. 
Carpenter, George R. “Documents Concerning Dante’s Public Life. Part I.” ARDS 10 
(1891): 36-60. 
Carpenter, George R. “Documents Concerning Dante’s Public Life. Part I.” ARDS11 
(1892): 15-53. 
Cassell, Anthony K. “Jn Memoriam: Charles S. Singleton (1909-1985).” Italica 
63.3 (1986): vii-ix. 
Contini, Gianfranco. “Philology and Dante Exegesis.” DSARDS 87 (1969): 1-32. 
Della Terza, Dante. “Charles S. Singleton: An Appraisal.” DSARDS 104 (1986): 9- 
z5': 
Donini, Ambrogio. ““Appunti per una storia del pensiero di Dante in rapporto al 
movimento gioachimita.” ARDS 47-48 (1930): 49-69. 
Fido, Franco. “Charles S. Singleton.” Lectura Dantis 4 (1989): 63-77. 
Freccero, John. “‘Dante’s Prologue Scene.” DSARDS 84 (1966): 1-25. 
. “Paradiso X: The Dance of the Stars.” DSARDS 86 (1968): 85-111. 
. “Casella’s Song (Purg. I, 112).” DSARDS 91 (1973): 73-80. 
. Dante: the Poetics of Conversion. Ed. and intr. Rachel Jacoff. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1986. 
Gifford, George H. “Foreword.” DSARDS 84 (1966): v. 
Grandgent, Charles H. “Seven Notes.” ARDS 21 (1902): 65-68. 
. 1910. “Two Notes on the Commedia.” ARDS, 29: 39-42. 
Gray, Anna Lyman. “Dante, 1321-1921.” ARDS 39-41 (1924): 1. 
Hamilton, G. L. “Notes on the Latin Translation of, and Commentary on, the Divina 
Commedia by Giovanni da Serravalle.” ARDS 20 (1901): 17-37. 
Keniston, Ralph H. “The Dante Tradition in the Fourteenth and Fifteenth 
Centuries.”ARDS 31 (1912): 1-92. 
Lafferty, Roger T. “The Philosophy of Dante.” ARDS 30 (1911): 1-34. 
Lanapoppi, Aleramo P. “La Divina commedia: allegoria ‘dei poeti’ o allegoria ‘dei 
teologi’?.” DSARDS 86 (1968): 17-39. 
Mazzotta, Giuseppe. “The American Criticism of Charles Singleton.” DSARDS104 
(1986): 27-44. 
McKenzie, Kenneth. “Means and End in Making a Concordance, with Special 
Reference to Dante and Petrarch.” DSARDS 25 (1906): 19-46. 
McKenzie, Kenneth. “Observations on Dante’s Lyrical Poems.” ARDS 49-51 (1934): 
1-28. 
Post, Chandler R. “The Beginnings of the Influence of Dante in Castilian and Catalan 
Literature.” ARDS 26 (1907): 1-59. 
Priest, Paul. “Allegory and Reality in the Commedia.” DSARDS 96 (1978): 127-44. 
Rand, Edward K. “The Latin Concordance of Dante and the Genuineness of Certain of 


102 Steven Botterill 


his Latin Works.” ARDS 29 (1910): 7-38. 

Russo, Vittorio. “Paradiso XIX: similis fictio numquam facta fuit per aliquem 
poetam.” DSARDS 101 (1983): 87-110. 

Shaw, James E. “Dante and Bonagiunta.” ARDS 52-54 (1936): 1-18. 

Sheldon, E. S. “The Concordance to Dante’s Minor Italian Works.” ARDS 22 (1903): 
1-8. 

Simonelli, Maria. “Vernacular Poetic Sources for Dante’s Use of Allegory.” DSARDS 

93 (1975): 131-42. 

Singleton, Charles S. “Justice in Eden.” ARDS 68-72 (1954): 3-33. 

. “Virgil Recognizes Beatrice.” ARDS 74 (1956): 29-38. 

“Stars over Eden.” ARDS 75 (1957): 1-18. 

“In Exitu Israel de Aegypto.” ARDS 78 (1960): 1-24. 

. “The Poet’s Number at the Center.” Modern Language Note 80 (1965): 1-10. 

Thompson, David. “Dante’s Ulysses and the Allegorical Journey.” DSARDS 85 
(1967): 33-58. 

. “Figure and Allegory in the Commedia.” DSARDS 90 (1972): 1-11. 

Toynbee, Paget. “Index of Proper Names in the Prose Works and Canzoniere of 
Dante.” ARDS 13 (1894): 1-28. 

Toynbee, Paget. “Index of Authors Quoted by Benvenuto da Imola in his Commentary 
on the Divina commedia: A Contribution to the Study of the Sources of the 
Commentary.” ARDS 18-19 (1899-1900): 1-54. 

White, Alain Campbell. “A Translation of the Quaestio de aqua et terra, and a 
Discussion of its Authenticity.” ARDS 21 (1902): i-ix, 2-59. 

Wilkins, Ernest H. “Methods in Making a Concordance.” ARDS 29 (1910): 1-5. 

. “Three Dante Notes.” ARDS 34 (1915): 29-36. 

. “Reminiscence and Anticipation in the Divine Comedy.” ARDS 55-57 
(1951): 1-13. 
. “Blake’s Drawing of Dante’s Celestial Scaleo.” ARDS 67-72 (1954 ): 35-42. 
. “Return to Limbus.” ARDS 74 (1956 ): 39-44. 
. “A Note on Translations of the Divine Comedy by Members of the 
Dante Society.” ARDS 75 (1957): 41-44. 
. “Voices of the Divine Comedy.” ARDS 79 (1961): 1-9. 











| 











































rts 


* Meommdam alle Commune tt Chawles 5. Singlewn (iy 


rg! (Rita a yee abhino ave per decenad be quite 
Be tak, LE BRAT ie ei rnivte, OSes Depegie te ti) if) 
eo a (CTO pans, di ted “ty ove) “orginal! leper, & queho 
ie Tl fittic ‘he 4 CO tae seh OR Mab ties wi 4 
ve inal Olgas oo ‘ tome (yeaa! 
Drebla sc Ch fur cat pore Galle poeta <) 
tng? in on regi Crssilmiia | WOO anf tie ob eseasnel 
Mreesionc Rilo apatites 3 Veet bt eerie i ete Cel Lilly tetera 
pi Caesar Garey bei ene! yt Je sda -ecdsiceesbtel Bate Hoe 
jarectuell wt cosaltioe tah ia ainda’ Reb arnedorg dl) on cannd oleae, 
eee Hos FR RintyaeMbrnledaphidiiuar avi ad 3. “aya Rio 
im fematet th AG, MOU 5 5 oe ees SVP AE eee | PON, - 
praes Pea tos G\e mone 4 ral SOG, re 
Sues Qi, pls yearagy) eLtolt icaba 
sim er ndony, al sagl ai sisibte TR west 
OF et ib “staledl eg euiins He ce heyhey? ‘flit Weta)?” 
‘ “rs a ERY Od: reat ‘Yani aaron th OT 
Bune 4 (S0VT ss sti Haga) Bieath 16 oa oleh nhvol? sist aflad 
alt Pr WAM SERED SoA TVE Ris aL a ile Cbs wbehareatea!a 
Nem ening o voLagt i Qibat a Watist tae a eck aoe 6 negerssycaig den 
Sasi woltc vefisrmitts aa ofensneni-a fou Pi eae WUD LOT el che 
, coabatt dines) wtik! ii cogiek locdken 4 sndqad iow astht 
: ion GSA woh D tncocewinh openeise eae) \¢ omed eetothy!2 
center sah aihgee | shies 20 tb Gin men dtest-oestisann toe 
PaOChtecuee) bndlie etry ak | cootubet ef octet eo onragni}e! 
PRlbLsvend semen Simone ul ohiesp re sere vuibaeemtars! mnths. 
fb editeuain' ae ul £3 ee oogis vt aleinent’s laoiigg bedk-olaepanite 
AMAA i heen Paogg ule ot onSqoecueeaes HiKotman 
eo 8 le Girls MIREP RRS orien) fie arom dlisbestios onside, 
iaind Ridin hummel ouece 90? oiddnd sxnoe aut ,othaieci 
pa oft? somo name eororenmmeny 4s sie croqolitt2b 
Rupees bc eeoY fay Aten wus eibbaed, waabis « 
oem mets bi iW Pion kGergny es od ahs éileherisy aishls 
a HES eeviadh; oes HUMID GueRbe aboemroullob yhotime non: 
Pdeiseretryy't eee obtigetyinia dotvohasm ers: stitenchar'. 
hes wakest nhl oO. « 0 earnilareteg iva ais metros al sicty records! 
alii re Ste dls ie (droite ome beam aitle neste > 
A Ri ensue, UT Cetdinds tithes igh) escd-nlige bree & Gagean!o 
Pr Gledtoig «| hanes ule wey” drem mb idobay th inchucansS 
PWT ets ‘tsa valsetpelodicimiesiaonqurg < sifov 
a a Bey a abiniskdnonms eruideiteantc 
2 ee eee nenee ie abies sek Mosignioi vod 
Wolan MMi orety Gxyordieas obane td di cages * 
ts ist! Wl am Abdio aod Anieies do bihwe” 





ait 


wy 






at) . 


Rocco Montano 


Il commento alla Divina commedia 
di Charles S. Singleton 


Nota 

Degli studi danteschi di Charles Singleton io mi sono occupato varie volte. Un 
articolo intitolato “I] problema dell’allegoria e del simbolismo in Dante e gli studi di 
Ch. S. Singleton” fu da me pubblicato in Delta N.S. 1957, 2-3 (1-16). Un altro 
articolo uscito in Modern Philology (1960, 3) fu da me tradotto e ripubblicato in Miti 
della critica postcrociana (Napoli, 1976) col titolo “La critica dantesca di Charles 
Singleton”. Nella Premessa del libro, poiché 1’articolo conteneva varie, sostanziali 
riserve, volli mettere in luce la probita, l’impegno, la vasta competenza dello 
studioso nel campo della cultura medievale da cui Dante dipende. Ho poi fatto 
numerosi riferimenti, quasi sempre positivi, all’opera di Singleton nei due volumi 
della mia Storia della poesia di Dante (Napoli-Firenze, 1962) e ancora nel mio recente 
Dante poeta e filosofo (Napoli-Conte-G.B. Vico, 1985). Non mi risulta che Singleton 
si sia occupato o abbia fatto riferimento ai miei studi. 


Per molti aspetti é pressocché impossibile fare un discorso critico intorno ad 
un’opera come il vasto commento dantesco di Charles S. Singleton. L’autore @ 
riuscito a mettere insieme pili di duemila pagine di note sulla Commedia 
(insieme con il testo e la traduzione i tre grossi volumi fanno 3295 pagine) senza 
dare la minima indicazione su quando fu composto il Poema, con quale animo, 
in quale fase spirituale e mentale fu composto, se ci fu un mutamento di idee dal 
tempo in cui furono composte le altre opere, il Convivio, la Monarchia. Non ci 
é detto nulla della mente di Dante, se essa mutd come si é per molto tempo 
insistito, ma senza dubbio con nessun fondamento, durante la composizione 
dell’opera. Non c’é nessun tentativo di stabilire una cronologia. Soprattutto non 
é data nessuna interpretazione unitaria del poema; non c’é nessuna presentazione 
della personalita del Poeta; non sappiamo se é@ quella che si costruirono i 
romantici, dell’uomo di parte, radicato nelle passioni della lotta terrena, 
indomabile avversario del papato, spirito sempre disposto, nell’Inferno, a 
dimenticare la condanna divina che pesa sui dannati e a solidarizzare con loro, ad 
additarli alla nostra ammirazione, o é un’altra. Abbiamo una ininterrotta serie di 
note pil o meno nella linea dei vecchi commenti, con indicazioni di fonti, di 
annotazioni di antichi commenti, con molti riferimenti, a proposito e, molte 
volte, a sproposito, ai teologi medievali, ma nessun tentativo di unificare le 
moltissime annotazioni in una visione d’insieme dell’ opera e dell’ autore. 
Singleton non ci da una sua interpretazione di Dante che noi possiamo 
valutare. E, in un modo anche piu grave di quanto accadeva nei vecchi commenti 
eruditi ed estetici, non ci vien detto nulla del valore estetico, non tanto dei 


Il commento alla Commedia di Charles S. Singleton 105 


singoli passi ed episodi (intorno ai quali abbiamo avuto per decenni le asfissianti 
effusioni dei critici di scuola crociana e crociano-marxista, come Sapegno o altri) 
ma, del senso dell’intero poema, di cid che esso comunica al lettore, di quello 
che si dice il “messaggio”. Il fatto che la Commedia sia tradotta in una prosa 
preoccupata della fedelt4 ma del tutto incurante di rendere le sfumature formali, 
ritmiche, le variazioni del linguaggio, che pur fanno parte della poesia di 
un’opera, toglie anche ogni possibilita per il lettore inglese di accostarsi 
all’espressione, allo spirito di Dante. E a noi sembra che sia del tutto inesatta la 
teoria di Croce secondo la quale le opere di poesia non sono traducibili. Quando 
noi leggiamo un testo nell’originale, quando abbiamo a che fare con un testo di 
altra epoca sempre facciamo mentalmente una traduzione nel nostro linguaggio. 
L’interprete di un brano musicale sempre traduce. Ma si tratta di perdere il meno 
possibile dei toni, del ritmo, della suggestione verbale dell’originale. Dante 
adotta il suo stile nel modo pit sottile ai vari temi che si trova a trattare: ci sono 
le rime “‘aspre e chioccie” e ci sono i giuochi sublimi di allitterazione di tanti 
altri passi. Ridurre il tutto ad una prosa uniforme, scolorita, significa sopprimere 
ogni senso poetico. 

Ma prima di tutto si sarebbe trattato di identificare la visione del poeta, la 
coscienza morale e religiosa — non le singole affermazioni (che poi vengono 
moltissime volte deformate da riferimenti a fonti e glosse inappropriate) — che 
si esprime nella complessa figurazione. Singleton ci da una grande abbondanza di 
testi medievali e classici, riprende assai spesso passi del Convivio e della 
Monarchia. Non si chiede se nell’atto in cui Dante scriveva la Commedia il suo 
pensiero era ancora quello di quei trattati; non considera se all’interno stesso del 
Poema Ci siano spostamenti di prospettiva per cui se in un caso, e specialmente 
per il Paradiso, @ lecito citare §. Tommaso, non é esatto farlo se parla un 
personaggio, dell’/nferno o del Purgatorio, che ha una mentalita totalmente 
differente da quella di S. Tommaso, come é ad esempio, il caso di Virgilio o, 
mettiamo, quello di Marco Lombardo. 

Nel canto di Marco Lombardo ci potremmo aspettare che I’autore ci dia una 
qualche indicazione del tempo in cui fu composta la Commedia o il Purgatorio e 
se ci fu una qualche evoluzione nel pensiero del Poeta dal Convivio alla 
Monarchia al Poema. Gli interpreti nella massima parte accostano le teorie 
espresse da Marco Lombardo a quelle manifestate nella Monarchia e traggono di 
qui l’indicazione che la seconda cantica dové essere scritta verso il 1313 quando si 
pensa che sia stato composto il trattato. Questo potrebbe essere un punto 
assolutamente importante per dirci quale @ il pensiero politico di Dante, la 
differenza, se c’é, tra la Monarchia e il Poema, la posizione di Dante, se @ 
davvero vicina a quella dei ghibellini, la cronologia delle opere. 

Singleton sciupa tutto. Prima di tutto non vede che la domanda che Dante 
rivolge a Marco, se sono le stelle la causa della decadenza del mondo, non pud 
essere quella del poeta. Questi doveva sapere assai bene, quando diede inizio alla 
Commedia (dopo aver avuto l’ultima visione di Dio, aver parlato con le anime 


106 Rocco Montano 


dei beati) che gli influssi astrali non possono essere responsabili dell’umana 
condotta. Singleton non si domanda se Marco @ si consapevole che questo 
influsso, se c’é, é soltanto iniziale (una risposta teologica sarebbe ben differente), 
sa, come qualunque aristotelico saprebbe, che l’uomo é dotato di libero arbitrio, 
ma non mostra nessuna cognizione delle cose della fede. Il fatto che rimpianga i 
tempi di Federico II, il pitt accanito avversario della Chiesa, il fatto che parli 
ripetutamente di “valore”, cioé della dote cavaileresca, ghibellina, ma non di 
virtu, lascia capire che egli é un nobile, non mostra che egli abbia cognizione di 
virti cristiane. Fa, infatti, il nome di alcuni nobili per parlare di “valore e 
cortesia” ancora presenti nel mondo, ignora gli uomini di fede. Ma Singleton 
subito da lunghi passi di S. Bonaventura e di S. Tommaso per commentare le 
parole di Marco sulla liberta di arbitrio. Non si chiede se il discorso che Marco fa 
ha veramente un qualsiasi addentellato con la dottrina dei due grandi teologi. Se 
Marco dice: “Lume v’é dato” cid non significa che egli abbia la nozione 
teologica, tomistica della partecipazione della virti razionale alla luce divina. Ma 
seguono altre tre pagine di testi tomistici e bonaventuriani; poi c’é una pagina 
della Monarchia. L’interprete non si chiede se il trattato era stato scritto prima di 
questo canto o fu scritto dopo. Poiché Marco parla dell’“anima sempliceita” che 
“sa nulla” @ citato S. Tommaso che parla dell’intelletto che é una tabula rasa; un 
riferimento del tutto estraneo. Singleton non vede che nelle parole di Marco @ 
sostanzialmente ignorata l’infirmitas peccati, il peccato di Adamo, che 1’anima 
non é semplicetta dal primo momento in cui viene immessa nel corpo umano. 
Citare S. Agostino che parla, invece, proprio del peccato di Adamo e riportare 
insieme due pagine del Convivio in cui é mantenuta una netta distinzione, sulla 
base di Aristotele, tra la sfera dell’attivita pratica e quella spirituale, é 
evidentemente, andare alla cieca. Marco dice espressamente, contro S. Agostino, 
contro S. Tommaso, contro S. Bonaventura: “non natura ch’in voi sia corrotta”. 
Singleton nota che c’é questa “omissione” del peccato originale nelle parole di 
Marco, ma non si domanda quale é veramente la concezione di lui: non vede che 
Marco parla di “due soli” e accusa il papa di avere “spento” |’altro sole per aver 
voluto mettere mano alla predella, cioé per aver voluto per sé anche il potere 
temporale, ma non fa parola della necessaria autorita spirituale che la Chiesa deve 
esercitare. Possiamo almeno dire che egli non respinge una autorité come quella 
rivendicata da Bonifacio VIII (che é invece assolutamente negata nella Monarchia) 
ma nemmeno la riconosce. Egli é infatti un vecchio ghibellino che ha in parte, 
ma solo in parte, corretto la concezione su cui é fondata la Monarchia. 

Ma Singleton non tenta di chiarire questo che é un punto essenziale per la 
comprensione di tutto Dante. Cita la Monarchia e il Convivio senza domandarsi 
se queste opere dicano la stessa cosa che sostiene Marco e se il pensiero vero di 
Dante é questo o un altro. Per Singleton Marco parla per Dante. Né egli si é 
accorto, dalla domanda di Dante sugli influssi astrali, che questo Dante non é il 
poeta, @ il pellegrino che, dopo aver superato i vizi che si oppongono all’ uso 
della ragione, va ora appena sollevandosi alla comprensione del vero. Non ci 





Il commento alla Commedia di Charles S. Singleton 107 


mostra che il pensiero di Dante, quale @ espresso nel XIX canto del Paradiso, @ 
ben diverso, @ fondato sul principio che “Lume non é, se non vien dal sereno / 
che non si turba mai”. 

La stessa confusione, la stessa sovrabbondanza di riferimenti teologici 
inappropriati, la stessa incapacita di vedere che le anime che parlano a questo 
livello, lo stesso Dante, il pellegrino, Marco, Virgilio, non sono portavoce del 
Poeta ma esprimono posizioni confacenti alla loro personalita, al livello di verita 
al quale ci troviamo, si puo riscontrare nel commento al canto seguente dove 
Virgilio spiega in base ad una teoria aristotelica dell’amore, che non é certamente 
quella di Dante, l’origine dei vizi capitali. 

Di nuovo, nel canto XVII il commentatore non esita a citare S$. Tommaso 
appena Virgilio incomincia a dire: “Né creator né creatura mai fu sanza amore” e 
di nuovo un ampio passo é riprodotto. E certo anche S. Tommaso, in sede di 
filosofia naturale, dice che ogni agente opera in vista di un bene desiderato. Nel 
Convivio, in termini aristotelici, Dante aveva detto che “‘ciascuna cosa... ha ’1 
suo speciale amore”. S. Tommaso certamente parla di un appetito naturale e di 
un appetito razionale. Il problema é che nell’etica cristiana di S. Tommaso c’é, 
nell’uomo, oltre la necessita di seguire |’istinto naturale e di conformarsi al 
dettato della ragione, quello di ubbidire alla legge eterna. Ma Virgilio, 
Ovviamente, non puod sapere, e non parla, di queste dimensioni soprannaturali 
dell’agire umano. Egli non puo che parlare nei termini dell’antica sapienza. Una 
delle massime qualita dell’ arte di Dante @ proprio quella di far parlare i personaggi 
del suo dramma nei termini e nei modi stessi confacenti alla loro personalita 
storica ed alla loro funzione nel processo di salvazione. Commentare Virgilio 
con S. Tommaso, anche se é certo che in quest’ultimo sono ripresi i temi 
dell’etica e della metafisica aristotelica, significa travisare il senso del discorso 
virgiliano, attribuirgli una sapienza che egli non pud avere e che il pellegrino a 
questo punto del cammino non puo ricevere. Quando il maestro dice — ma 
l’interprete non si accorge del fatto — “‘e tu ’1 sai”, fa appunto riferimento a cid 
che Dante conosceva fin dal Convivio e che aveva appreso da Aristotele. Cosi 
non possiamo meravigliarci che subito dopo, quando Virgilio dice che 1’uomo 
puo sbagliarsi se “con pit cura / o con men che non dee corre nel bene” e dice 
che si puo errare “per troppo o per poco di vigore”, l’interprete non si accorge 
che questo discorso prettamente aristotelico fatto in termini di “misura” di 
esclusione del “troppo” o del troppo poco non é per nulla corrispondente al 
pensiero di S. Tommaso di cui sono riportate varie pagine e che aveva ben 
chiaramente spiegato che “in quelle cose che in sé sono ottime, come é l’amore, 
non Ci pud essere eccesso 0 medieta”. Non viene notato che qui siamo soltanto a 
meta del cammino che porta alla Verita. 

Cosi Singleton, continuando, imperterrito, a citare §. Tommaso, non si 
accorge che Virgilio, in conformita con la sua sapienza pagana, che non pud 
avere nozione del peccato di superbia e dell’umilta, confonde chiaramente il 
peccato di invidia con il peccato di superbia e dice che questo si verifica quando 


108 Rocco Montano 


qualcuno “per esser suo vicin soppresso spera eccellenza”. Le pagine di S. 
Tommaso si accumulano nel commento e non sono solo inappropriate. Cid che 
Singleton manca di considerare non é solo che le cose dette da Virgilio sono ben 
diverse da quelle, fondate su S. Tommaso, che Dante deve avere nel comporre il 
poema sacro e sono chiarite nel Paradiso. L’interprete accumula le sue note 
sempre implicando che cid che dice Virgilio é il pensiero stesso di Dante, il 
poeta. Egli non si rende conto che Dante, il poeta, non pud esprimere il suo 
pensiero a questo punto del cammino e non puo essere certamente Virgilio, ma 
sono Beatrice, S. Tommaso, S. Pietro, S. Bernardo coloro che dicono le cose che 
egli ritiene vere. Singleton non si accorge che il modo con cui Virgilio parla del 
peccato degli accidiosi come di un peccato causato da “lento amore” é non meno 
inadeguato al pensiero di S. Tommaso, che dové essere di Dante nell’atto in cui 
egli scriveva la Commedia, in quanto |’accidia é molto pit che pigrizia; é, dice 
S. Tommaso, “‘tristitia de bono spirituali divino” e offesa alla virtt teologale 
della speranza. Ma Singleton non fa nessuna distinzione, come vedremo pit oltre 
(ed é incredibile) tra Dante personaggio, peccatore, e Dante poeta. 

Ed é da dire che questa incapacita di identificare non gia la figura storica di 
un personaggio (in quanto a indicazioni biografiche e storiche, geografiche, il 
commento é piii che abbondante: nel canto di Francesca ci sono date diverse 
pagine che narrano la storia del matrimonio di lei e di Gianciotto), ma la sua 
condizione spirituale, la personalita morale degli interlocutori del dramma e di 
Dante personaggio, prima di tutto, toglie la possibilita di interpretare 
correttamente qualsiasi episodio del poema. 

Si prenda l’episodio di Ulisse. In molti saggi e specialmente nel puntuale 
commento del XXVI canto che é nella mia Storia della poesia di Dante io ho 
mostrato prima di tutto che c’é un personaggio, Dante, un’anima inferma che, 
come dice Virgilio, fa il pellegrinaggio nel regno infernale per avere “esperienza 
piena” del peccato e come tale non pud non essere contagiato dalle forme del 
male con cui viene a contatto. Nella bolgia di Ulisse egli sente un desiderio 
incontenibile, mai sentito altrove, di parlare ai peccatori. Egli prega e riprega, 
chiede che la sua preghiera “vaglia mille”, si protende verso il luogo dove vagano 
i peccatori e deve mantenersi ad una sporgenza della roccia per non cadere. 
Evidentemente egli é sotto 1’influsso di un male e si vede subito dopo che in 
Ulisse proprio questo é stato prepotente, disordinato, il desiderio di conoscere 
cose inutili all’anima, un peccato che i teologi medievali chiamavano curiositas, 
“prostituzione della mente” e che ha spinto l’eroe greco con i compagni in un 
“folle volo” che @ stato mortale. Questo Dante cosi attratto non é certamente il 
poeta. Questi parlando in propria persona ha detto, proprio al principio 
dell’episodio, che se ora ripensa a cid che vide (al passato) nella bolgia non pud 
non ammonire il proprio ingegno affinché non corra senza farsi guidare dalla 
ragione. Cid vuol dire che l’ingegno dei peccatori proprio questo ha fatto, & 
andato senza il freno della ragione. Per suo conto il Poeta aveva anche un 
ammonimento molto preciso di Seneca (dal quale, come io avevo mostrato, 


Il commento alla Commedia di Charles S. Singleton 109 


aveva preso I’idea di un viaggio di Ulisse oltre i mari conosciuti) il quale diceva 
che é un grosso errore voler conoscere dove Ulisse sia andato a morire: cid che 
occorre sapere, diceva il filosofo, é proprio il contrario di cid che Ulisse ha fatto; 
occorre vedere come, anche naufrago, bisogna sforzarsi di ritornare alla propria 
casa, ai propri cari. Ulisse @ andato in direzione opposta. Ma non possiamo 
meravigliarci che Virgilio, nei limiti della sua sapienza pagana, ignaro com’é del 
peccato, tipicamente cristiano, di curiositas, spieghi la condanna di Ulisse in 
altro modo; dice che il furto del Palladio, il cavallo di Troia, l’avere svelato il 
travestimento di Achille, abbiano fatto in modo che Ulisse sia in questa bolgia. 
In verita queste azioni possono non essere azioni peccaminose in quanto sono 
compiute contro il nemico in guerra e per fare in modo che Achille si congiunga 
all’armata del proprio paese in guerra. II peccato é un altro. 

Singleton non sa nulla di tutto questo. Egli era certamente al corrente della 
mia interpretazione ma non cerca di discuterla, né riprende la vecchia 
interpretazione per cui il viaggio di Ulisse non avrebbe niente a che fare con la 
sua condanna e sarebbe solo una magnanima sfida all’ignoto offerta dal Poeta alla 
nostra ammirazione (come se il compito del poeta che deve mostrarci le facce del 
male sia quello di fare in modo che noi ammiriamo delle anime condannate da 
Dio). Nel commento cid che troviamo sono ampi passi di autori classici in cui 
si parla del Palladio, del cavallo di Troia, di Achille. C’é una spiegazione, molto 
evasiva, del fatto che Virgilio vuole parlare lui ai due peccatori (@ addotto il fatto 
che Dante sarebbe troppo lontano dalla loro cultura). Non viene notato il modo 
ambiguo in cui il poeta latino parla ai due peccatori. Sono riportati due ampi 
passi di Cicerone in cui si parla del desiderio di conoscere e di Orazio in cui 
Ulisse @ ancora esaltato per tale desiderio. E riportato, senza commento, il passo 
di Seneca sopramenzionato, da me citato. Ma non é detto nulla del peccato di 
Ulisse, quale esso sia, se c’é qualcosa che dobbiamo ammirare o respingere, se il 
pellegrino Dante é da identificare col poeta. Non é detto se Ulisse é qui ancora 
l’eroe di cui hanno parlato tutti i critici romantici e postromantici o é uno che 
col suo racconto ci da il senso della sua dannazione. Sono citati, a proposito 
della esortazione di Ulisse ai compagni, un certo numero di versi di un poeta 
francese medievale che, forse, fu noto a Dante, ma non ci é detto se noi 
dobbiamo prendere quella esortazione come un magnanimo appello, che esprime 
i sentimenti stessi del Poeta, o come un abile discorso con cui Ulisse seduce i 
compagni a procedere sulla via del male; non é detto se Ulisse é punito per aver 
passato le colonne d’Ercole e voluto conoscere troppo, come tanti, molto 
erroneamente, hanno detto, o la fine tragica della sua avventura é dovuta, come 
Fubini, Freccero e altri critici recenti, affatto ignoranti del mondo di Dante, 
hanno sostenuto, al fatto che Ulisse rappresenta la pura ragione, la filosofia e 
come tale non pud accostarsi al mondo della verita (come se per Dante il cercare 
la verita debba costituire un peccato). 

Il commento rimane totalmente evasivo. Né possiamo sapere quale sia la 
rilevanza, la ragione del racconto di Ulisse rispetto alla sua condanna e, ancora 


110 Rocco Montano 


meno, nell’intera economia del viaggio soprannaturale di Dante; se c’é stata, da 
parte del pellegrino, una esperienza del peccato 0 meno, se ci sono o non dei 
limiti nella visione di Virgilio. E dobbiamo dire che la totale deficienza, 
l’evasivita del commento risulta ancora pil’ chiaramente negli altri episodi. 
Quando ci troviamo nel canto di Farinata, Singleton non rileva l’evidente 
manifestazione di un animo accecato che si pud riconoscere nella prima domanda 
di Farinata, il quale, trovandosi davanti ad un fatto inaudito, voluto da Dio, cioé 
alla presenza, mai verificatasi dopo S. Paolo, di un uomo vivo nell’oltretomba, 
non chiede come mai cid avvenga, ma vuol sapere solo di che famiglia (e per lui 
significa di che partito) é l’uomo che gli @ davanti. Sono riportate alcune pagine 
della cronaca di Villani relative a Farinata. Il commentatore non dice se la figura 
che Dante ci presenta @ quella di un eroe, di un ammirevole patriota che si 
tormenta per la condizione di Firenze pit che per le fiamme infernali 0 é quella di 
un epicureo, cioé di una persona cieca alle dimensioni soprannaturali della realta 
terrena, politica e che nell’/nferno, come é fatale, rimane ancora sordo come fu in 
vita a tutti i valori soprannaturali e pensa solo alla patria terrena, al partito. Non 
sappiamo se dobbiamo ammirare, se Dante, il poeta ammira o se é solo il Dante 
peccatore, il personaggio che, come io credo di aver ampiamente mostrato, é 
attratto nella sfera del male, guarda a Farinata come ad un “magnanimo” ed é 
ancora, col peccatore, sul piano della rissa terrena di coloro che “un muro ed una 
fossa serra”. Compare Cavalcante ed il critico ancora qui non rileva che la sua 
domanda — come mai suo figlio non @ con Dante, se il viaggio é concesso per 
“altezza di ingegno” — rivela nel modo piu evidente, con |’assenza di qualsiasi 
moto di meraviglia per la presenza di una persona viva nel mondo infernale, un 
animo completamente chiuso, come Farinata (essi sono infatti due facce dello 
stesso epicureismo) ai valori spirituali. Singleton ci da un passo di Boccaccio 
relativo a Cavalcante, ma non sappiamo se qui il poeta ci ha dato, come 
intermezzo, nel colloquio con 1’“eroe” Farinata, la figura commovente di un 
padre che si dispera al pensiero che il figlio non sia pit in vita o ci ha dato, nel 
modo pit efficace (dal punto di vista della poesia come della teologia cristiana) 
un’altra faccia dell’epicureismo, del peccato di coloro che vivono come se non ci 
fosse l’anima. Singleton é@ assente. Non ci dice il senso dell’episodio né da un 
punto di vista estetico né da quello morale, non spiega quale sia 1’emozione che 
il poeta ci comunica, se tutti gli elementi del quadro si combinano insieme a 
crearla, se l’episodio si iscrive in un modo coerente e consistente, necessario, 
nell’avventura di peccato e di redenzione che il poeta cristiano (se é cristiano e se 
& poeta) deve darci o se abbiamo ancora qui un venir meno di Dante al suo 
compito e un presentarci le sue attrazioni terrene, le sue dimenticanze di Dio, dei 
colloqui che non hanno nulla a che fare (come appare da tutte le interpretazioni 
vigenti) col problema della salvezza. Singleton non si sbottona; ignora entrambe 
le alternative, va avanti con le sue note, senza preoccuparsi che esse dicono 
molto poco. 

Nel caso di Brunetto ci sarebbe la stessa grossa questione: Dante ha usato la 


Il commento alla Commedia di Charles S. Singleton 111 


sua narrazione (la Commedia é per Singleton un racconto totalmente fittizio) per 
esprimere il suo affettuoso ricordo del vecchio maestro, non curandosi del fatto 
che Brunetto sia condannato da Dio e vada nudo, immondo, sotto la pioggia di 
fuoco o ha rappresentato se stesso come anima ancora cieca, inferma, che si sente 
attratto all’anima peccatrice ed esprime verso di lui parole di affetto e di 
venerazione rivelatrici del fatto che egli non sa vedere, é sotto il contagio del 
peccato, ha rispetto per una persona di cui la condanna divina rivela la 
turpitudine? Tra l’altro Dante nel Convivio aveva parlato col massimo disprezzo 
di coloro che, come Brunetto, preferivano il volgare altrui al prezioso idioma 
italico: li aveva chiamati pecore e non uomini, aveva detto che nella loro bocca 
meretricia essi avviliscono il volgare nostro. Brunetto raccomanda a Dante 
nell’/nferno proprio il suo Trésor. Si tratterebbe di vedere se Dante il poeta ha 
dimenticato il suo giudizio ed esalta nel divino poema il maestro che aveva 
chiamato pecora e che ancora gli raccomanda la propria opera scritta in francese 
oppure se il ritratto di Brunetto nell’/nferno rimane, in tutto, quello di un 
peccatore e di un maestro indegno a cui inevitabilmente, per il contagio del 
peccato, l’anima inferma del pellegrino si sente ancora una volta attratta. Il 
commento non dice nulla; non sappiamo se quello ritratto é il colloquio con il 
vecchio adorato maestro o é un incontro nelle tenebre tra un vecchio peccatore ed 
i pupillo non ancora redento, ciecamente reverente verso di lui e persino disposto 
a fermarsi a fianco a lui, dimenticando la lunga espiazione che lo aspetta, ai 
margini della pioggia che punisce Brunetto. Singleton non si accorge (anche se 
ne era stato preavvertito dai miei saggi) “come l’uom s’eterna”, ma in verita 
Brunetto nella sua opera e, possiamo dedurre, nel suo insegnamento, aveva detto, 
bestemmiando, che la sola immortalita é quella che si acquista con le opere. Non 
c’era nessuna traccia nel Tesoro e ancor meno nel Tesoretto, di una fede 
nell’immortalita dell’anima. Ma Singleton non si accorge che Brunetto nel suo 
discorso, in cui si riferisce alla fortuna, all’influsso delle stelle, a bestie, alle 
piante, rimane completamente fedele alla sua cultura naturalistica e 
sostanzialmente atea e non pud essere dunque un soggetto da presentare 
all’ammirazione del lettore di un poema cristiano. Il commento evita ogni 
questione. Riporta un passo di Virgilio, non necessario, per spiegare le parole 
“guardare . . . sotto nuova luna”; trascrive trenta versi del Tesoretto in cui 
Brunetto parla del suo soggiorno in Francia: riporta un lungo passo di Villani 
che parla di Brunetto ma non nota che il cronista lo definisce “mondano uomo”, 
cioé, in sostanza, peccatore e incredulo; di nuovo cita, a sproposito, Virgilio, che 
é totalmente estraneo, per commentare la domanda di Brunetto: “Qual fortuna o 
destino. . . ?” Altri passi del Tesoro, di Villani per dire delle origini di Firenze. 
Nessun tentativo di spiegare se questo é un incontro nel peccato o é un canto in 
cui Dante si distrae e ci invita a ricordare e ad ammirare cose e persone molto 
terrene che gli sono care. 

Per quanto si riferisce all’episodio di Francesca il commentatore ci riporta, 
come abbiamo detto, diverse pagine in cui é narrata la storia del matrimonio con 


112 Rocco Montano 


Gianciotto, ma é decisamente silente quando si tratta di dirci se il Dante che 
esprime con insistenza la sua pieta per Francesca, si commuove, sviene per la 
commozione per la storia che essa ha narrata, é il peccatore che necessariamente 
deve essere coinvolto nel peccato o @ Dante, il poeta che, pur dovendo scrivere un 
poema per farci compenetrare della giustizia divina, al primo incontro con 
un’anima peccatrice solidarizza con lei, dimentica Dio e presenta al lettore 
l’immagine commossa di una donna il cui attaccamento all’uomo amato non é 
vinto neppure dalla bufera infernale. Sara Dante, dunque, cosi poco coerente col 
suo compito di poeta e di uomo di fede? Francesca parla di un amore che al cor 
gentile ratto s’apprende. II critico ricorda un verso di Guinizelli molto affine; non 
nota che lo stesso Dante aveva scritto un sonetto che incomincia con “Amore e 
cor gentile sono una cosa”. Cid che non sappiamo é se Dante é rimasto fedele a 
questa convinzione cortese, guinizelliana, neoplatonica dell’amore o se nell’atto 
in cui scrive la Commedia il suo pensiero ed il suo sentimento di amore sono 
profondamente cambiati. Potrebbe essere — io almeno questo ho sostenuto — 
che Francesca sia nell’/nferno proprio il simbolo e la vittima inconscia di un 
amore che lei crede ragione di gentilezza e nobilta e che é invece, come Dante ad 
un certo punto ha compreso, la vera via della perdizione. Il bacio di Lancillotto 
era stato per tanti nel Medioevo il persuasore occulto di una strada creduta 
legittima, nobilitante e in verita aperta alla caduta dell’anima, ma Singleton non 
commenta; dice che le parole “senza alcun sospetto” possono significare che 1 
due amanti non sapevano ancora del reciproco amore: non rileva che esse possano 
significare che non c’era sospetto, in loro, del peccato. Quello che é certo é che 
non sappiamo dal commento né quale poté essere la concezione dell’amore in 
Dante, se ci furono cambiamenti in essa, né quale é il senso dell’episodio, se @ 
messo nel poema come una storia di cui ci dobbiamo commuovere, come 
I’hanno sempre presentato i lettori fedeli alle interpretazioni romantiche di Dante, 
O esso é un esempio dell’umana caduta e ci fa presente quali sono le forme di 
riesperienza del peccato per cui il pellegrino deve passare per esserne libero e 
sollevarsi ad una nuova vita. Dal punto di vista della poesia e della comprensione 
della vicenda morale del protagonista del lungo viaggio nessuna indicazione. 
Tanto meno sappiamo quale poté essere 1’animo del poeta nello scrivere, nel 
presentarci questo incontro nella tenebra infernale. 

Questo si pud dire a proposito di tutti gli episodi, nell’ /nferno, nel 
Purgatorio ed anche nel Paradiso. E inutile cercare, ad esempio, quale é la 
funzione di Stazio nella economia dell’ascesa a Dio, che cosa é la lussuria per 
Dante, per la quale anche Guinizelli e Arnaldo Daniello, esponenti dello stil 
nuovo e della poesia cavalleresca, sono condannati, se davvero Catone é salvo per 
Dante o @, come penso di aver mostrato, solo il guardiano di un luogo che 
rimane, e rimarra, del tutto separato, dal mondo in cui si entra salendo i tre 
gradini (dei quali l’interprete non dice il significato) e dove per la prima volta si 
sente il Te Deum, l’inno della Redenzione. Non sappiamo per quale virti 
Piccarda e Costanza sono premiate. Si dice solo, citando Grandgent, che si tratta 


Il commento alla Commedia di Charles S. Singleton LS 
| di ‘“‘monache incostanti”. Della presenza di Sigieri di Brabante in Paradiso — un 
| problema tra i pid dibattuti e pit importanti per la identificazione del pensiero di 
| Dante — non é detto nulla. Non si sa perché Virgilio é la guida di Dante nei 
| primi due regni dell’aldila e non altri (¢ uno dei fondamentali problemi per 
l’intelligenza di Dante) né se Dante credette che nella IV Egloga Virgilio 
profetizz6 l’avvento del Cristianesimo, come molti, molto a torto, ritengono. 
Pero pit di una pagina é dedicata a spiegare se “sacra fame dell’oro” nell’episodio 
_ di Stazio significa sacra moderazione dell’oro (che @ assurdo) o esecranda, fatale, 
_ fame dell’oro. A proposito del discorso sulla Giustizia da parte dell’aquila, nel 
_ XIX canto del Paradiso sono citati la Monarchia e un passo di S. Paolo. Inutile 
_ cercare di sapere se dalla Monarchia al Divino Poema il pensiero di Dante subi 
_ alcun mutamento, se sul piano del pensiero politico Dante si accorda con S. 
_ Tommaso e se la filosofia in genere su cui poggia il Poema si distacchi o meno 
da quella di S. Tommaso. 

Il commento, come si é detto, é all’insegna dell’evasivita. E non potremo 
meravigliarci che in esso non si trovi nessuna indicazione intorno all’estetica di 
cui la Commedia é altissima manifestazione. Il verso “I’ mi son un che quando / 
Amor mi spira . . .” non é nemmeno commentato; c’é solo una osservazione 
intorno alla particella pronominale “mi”. Singleton segue la lezione “Amor mi 
spira” della Societé Dantesca, che é probabilmente errata, ripresa da Petrocchi e 
non si chiede cosa significa il verbo spirare, se ¢ ispirare come la massima parte 
degli interpreti vuole o invece la lezione é “amore spira” (senza maisucola; 
l’amore di cui parlavano gli stilnovisti non era Dio e nel loro linguaggio si 
parlava dello spirare, degli spiriti di amore, non di ispirazione). Singleton si 
limita a dire che Dante ha lasciato ai posteri il problema “se ci fu veramente una 
tale scuola di poesia”. A proposito dell’altro verso del Paradiso in cui é detto ad 
Apollo: “la matera e tu mi farai degno”, ugualmente importante per ogni 
discorso sull’estetica di Dante (vi si fa presente il fatto che per il Medioevo, e per 
Dante, il contenuto é una cosa ben distinta dall’arte che la manifesta) non c’é 
nessuna spiegazione: é@ detto solo che Apollo é@ il Dio del sole e la cosa, 
chiaramente, non é pertinente. 

Qui ovviamente non possiamo analizzare cid che é detto a proposito del 
pensiero di Dante nel Paradiso, sull’amore, sulla conoscenza, sulla unificazione, 
che in parte almeno si distanzia da S. Tommaso, di ente ed essentia. Quello che é 
certo é che per un commento che supera le duemila pagine quello che é dato é 
terribilmente poco e non gia, s’intende relativamente alla quantita delle note maa 
cid che dovrebbe dirci — e non c’é affatto — chi é Dante, che cosa é@ la 
Commedia. Anche il problema dell’ allegoria e del simbolismo al quale Singleton 
ha dedicato gran parte dei suoi studi danteschi non risulta chiarito. Non si sa se 
noi dobbiamo accettare, come io ho sempre sostenuto, cid che é@ detto nella 
Lettera a Cangrande e cioé che il senso letterale del Poema é historialis, va letto 
cioé, come |’Exodus, seguendo Il’allegoria dei teologi o si tratta di un’opera 
allegorica al modo del Roman de la Rose, cioé di una storia fittizia. Altrove 


114 Rocco Montano 


allegorica al modo del Roman de la Rose, cioé di una storia fittizia. Altrove 
Singleton ha sostenuto che Dante finge di narrare una storia vera, in verita si 
tratta di una storia fittizia. Il problema é assolutamente importante (si tratta di 
vedere se la Commedia @ un’ opera profetica, ha un senso profondo di verita, di 
fede reale nel prossimo Avvento o é una pura finzione poetico-allegorica). Nel 
commento non troviamo una discussione specifica su questo punto. 
Evidentemente il critico ha ritenuta chiusa la questione. Ma é@ anche qui una 
deficienza fondamentale dell’opera. Cosi su altri punti che ho qui indicati si 
possono trovare nel commento sporadici accenni, ma si tratta sempre di note in 
cui i problemi essenziali vengono dispersi. In ogni caso é la visione complessiva 
dell’arte e del mondo di Dante che manca completamente. 


(L’articolo, che é qui pubblicato con il permesso dell’ autore, é apparso su 
“Segni” 7.1-2 [1986]: 1-11.) 


Appendice 
Opere principali di Rocco Montano su Dante 


Comprendere Dante: analisi storico-critica, canti scelti e commentati, 
presentazione unitaria della Divina commedia. Napoli: G. B. Vico, 1976. 
Varie edizioni: 1981; 1986. 

Dante e il Rinascimento. Napoli: Guida, 1942. 

Dante filosofo e poeta. Nuova edizione rifatta di Storia della poesia di Dante. 
Napoli: Conte-G. B. Vico, 1985. 

Dante’s Thought and Poetry. Chicago: Gateway Editions, 1988. 

Storia della poesia di Dante. 2 voll. Napoli: Quaderni di Delta, 1962-63. Varie 
edizioni: 1965; 1985. 

Suggerimenti per una lettura di Dante. Napoli: Conte, 1956. 













_ 
a” 


7 Oo 
an 1a ’ ots - % ' =Fy =) fu i! : 14 > gt, Qe y 
JOIN i vill Me ee ee a pare Vid Sant 





7 —_ 7 
ne Bh Ain CANE, Pr lo 


i 
a 


Svat, . joey ts 


ner rae 


ne ey fence 











vob ma u then : Ww hs a i 2 @ ee te) i rut 
n fexoemeh! eho errs Oe ee enn 
rhe Ww ee LET Ce 



























7 ' 
yo Ft thd clin ow nes Wy PAA oe » an 
oe ay ie Oy ae wae whet ur 
Nai Bik bitte Ae Nentio’ ‘hier’ a 


ee Hie Ae a) «Pd ONIN i 
Ds) : Galt Ts inet ae (bod ; sai" aims fi) ir 
mer iin ‘i aban oA idee lnm) Ett bs 
ie ta ponte at Ui ei i te oat iff) a seeaee hiblis 

\ fi Singad het! my Tl ip. F aig (Hay 

a LL py} i} vy 4 .| ~ Hit 
Wire £ aif oth nN? TON i is ei H 





wie F 
TaN Tey 





r ierd . i 
Ten) ful en bc Hii 5erk ee | risi? Mu ty wry 
fen ue NE rau dain t ines To dni é bhi 
wey tlf Ko 4 ai. bile ¢ oni, ‘Wit 10 aT gh 4] nei) 
. ‘é - ‘ tl "4 


ee pace om Bite ag i Lath Yn Pi art 
i Ae AION, 96, gr BARD 2 ie i " 

+a 12001. ORR SSM Uhh pas WOM) 9, (88! Brad 9 1 ARTY SE 
ice iad {ygaadendselli gern} setae Oe Avvh al De. - dicts 
ntedhapeaibcan guaraih wee apa eaatt Hines mer eownnt prise Mrgniiary 
Rls RA ieetnaette yan SAE! rao) HeMAe aks Thatip arts choraeen 
ted Sart ¢ Hecmtietie ost: seslniond At herseirdsarah ieueant 
erp: Geevity GL a Gil) ool Wei be HHA gonna in 
| iii. Pratt! ety! Ne apbltvn ¢ site veg scare 
Prin ronan TN fray BE — SR i NB 


mn 1st Yen IHL. Lee th Bin he eh png it ai 
Aes ey iF} bind it Ay Fak al We wey tt vii i ij { hey taht riage | 


ae nan THE cel ‘icp Picea aga ul [-, 7 auf wis (i eke it eRe cubes 
‘Agena ie yo oy? ey Sle AERO s Hass, rpyals: 7 hn (i ean 
sah secon ai aeeth ae URE EMA HR aay gle. “Ah 
fender ape a Raa ale aa are 
ats “ow Ty wh bul ‘4 eq el ee Le et os 4% f ical 
" RUSHES, ANP | ity i, © tt) t" vt “f pa : aes Be < 
ee the Cath! As Cer npdd a 8 on ve (Ml aol-aotivsetne at Cee opi ie ¥e 
42) tia wheats ot! 260 orate eg Fee ee) ait od aéiubores torrd 4 

ecm Witenes? Ln) oe Alt oe crit) Canwest sseniA yeor bat worstia!l 4) 
ee? Sige tion etait -aelhyateneyS coed oot jeulomA a) yilsiaago 
fihanet a ica ter ‘i it mand nL seah eh Anarene 


~ b arneri ye 

Gas aula ab ars = A jhe) Aan ‘nts yes sae BK AF 7 AN wo! J 3" 
a ed wert iccear-1") i Te qtevied. od miigitivo \yeemieciee w weloweted 
ih bs Pm vues Corel 2g a OS Pet Trinthey a" Giver snow | iawn abcourtoreed 


diytal 


ami Sa 









David Robey 


Dante and Modern American Criticism: 
Post-structuralism 


For many followers of modern literary theory, and for many of its opponents, 
there will be a paradox in the title of this contribution, given the belief widely 
held on both sides that criticism and post-structuralism are contradictory terms. 
While I cannot attempt to discuss the merits of this position here, it is to some 
extent supported by the material I shall be considering, since there seems to be 
very little in modern American Dante criticism that is post-structuralist in the 
full sense of the word. By this I mean the systematic application to Dante’s 
work of the method of deconstruction and theory of language derived from 
Derrida’s critique of European structuralism, or even the latter-day structuralist 
principles — the idea of the writerly and the emphasis on structuration rather 
than structure — of Roland Barthes’s S/Z or Le Plaisir du texte.’ On the other 
hand there is a certain amount of American work on Dante that combines more 
conventional methods with a partial assimilation of post-structuralism, work 
which for all its lack of theoretical purity illustrates, I shall want to suggest, the 
remarkable interest and variety of contemporary literary studies in the country. I 
must add the qualification, however, that my discussion of this work will 
inevitably be selective and to some degree arbitrary, partly because of limitations 
of space, and even more because of the difficulty of acquiring across the Atlantic 
a completely up-to-date knowledge of the relevant publications. Perhaps 
someone has just remedied the lack of a truly Derridean treatment of Dante, or is 
in the process of doing so. 

I shall begin, though mainly in order to set him on one side, with a figure 
who participated in the Yale School manifesto and is habitually associated with 
post-structuralism and deconstruction, in spite of his repeated disclaimers: Harold 
Bloom. Bloom has shown an increased interest in Dante in the last few years; a 
brief mention some while ago in The Anxiety of Influence (122-23), mainly a 


For a brief introduction to structuralism and post-structuralism, see the chapter on the subject 
in Jefferson and Robey, Modern Literary Theory 84-112. For a full treatment of deconstruction, 
especially in America, see Leitch, Deconstructive Criticism, and Culler, “Issues in 
Contemporary American Critical Debate.” 


See Bloom et al., Deconstruction and Criticism. For Bloom’s disclaimers, see for instance his 
interview in Salusinsky, Criticism in Society 51, 68 (“I meant that those four were 
deconstruction and I was criticism”). 





Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 117 


long quotation from a letter by John Freccero,” has been followed more recently 
by two anthologies of modern Dante criticism in English, both sharing the same 
introduction, and by a number of pages of discussion in Ruin the Sacred Truths, 
published last year.” Students of Bloom’s work will no doubt find the general 
drift of his reading of Dante none too difficult to predict. His treatment of Dante 
in The Anxiety of Influence centres on an observation by Freccero — according 
to the first anthology (6) the “most relevant” of Dante critics — about the 
“deliberately skewed” echoes of Virgil towards the end of Purgatorio, when Dante 
is about to be abandoned by his guide. From this Bloom goes on in the later 
books to read the whole Comedy as an enactment of the eternal agon between the 
"strong" poet and his artistic mentor. In Ruin the Sacred Truths (45) Virgil 
“represents poetic fatherhood, the scene of instruction that Dante must transcend 
if he is to complete his journey to Beatrice”; Dante abandons him “not so as to 
substitute grace for reason, but to “find his own image of voice.” Thus Dante’s 
Aeneid is a tame, castrated version of his predecessor’s work, rather than the 
“nightmare poem dominated by the sinister Juno and her horrible ministers 
Alecto and the Dira” (42). Beatrice in turn is the “personal myth that centred his 
poem,” the “power of invention, the essence of his art” (49, 45), and Dante’s 
apparent submission to her is really an extreme act of self — affirmation. 

Bloom thus replaces established modes of reading with his own distinctive 
form of allegorization. The approach of Singleton and Auerbach, which the 1986 
anthology predominantly illustrates, is criticised in the most recent book for its 
“distorted emphasis upon doctrine” (46); Auerbach’s conception of figura 
produces an over-idealized version of Dante’s work, for if texts fulfill one another 
it is always through some “self-serving caricature of the earlier text by the later” 
(43). Instead the Comedy illustrates the “oldest and most authentic” allegory, the 
“agon of poet against poet” (Dante 6). In this connection Bloom makes an 
interesting distinction in Ruin the Sacred Truths (39) between two sides of the 
work of Freccero: that of the “continuator of Auerbach and Singleton,” whose 
concern is with the “conversion of poetics into Paul and Augustine”; and the 
other who takes a “Nietszchean, agonistic view of Dante” also to be found in 
Curtius. It will be obvious which of the two Frecceros Bloom prefers. 

While Freccero’s name will feature prominently in the following pages, 
Bloom’s work on Dante can now be put on one side because, as he himself 
insists, it is not really post-structuralist at all. At one, very theoretical, level he 
has aligned himself with post-structuralism, in the status he assigns to critical 
metalanguage. Assimilating interpretation to the agon of poetic creativity, he 
sees the critic as engaged in a process of self-affirmation at the expense of the 


The substance of the letter from Freccero is now in his essay “Manfred’s Wounds and the 
Poetics of the Purgatorio,” first published in 1983, now in Dante: The Poetics of Conversion 
195-208. 


4 
Dante and Dante's Divine Comedy, Ruin the Sacred Truths 36-50. 


118 David Robey 


literary work, not as seeking any kind of verifiable meaning. Less distinctively, 
he also shares with Derrida and the later Barthes a strong emphasis on 
intertextuality. However his practice, a highly original psychoanalytical variant 
of biographical criticism, produces nothing like the radical reversal of traditional 
approaches that post-structuralism would call for. This is not, of course, in any 
way to deny the importance or interest of his criticism in general and his 
writings on Dante in particular. In fact the characteristically Bloomian vision of 
the “strong” poet (“a poet so preternaturally strong as Dante,” Ruin the Sacred 
Truths 49) seems particularly well suited to the Comedy, and is an instructive 
corrective to the deficiencies of more conventional forms of criticism, especially 
most allegorical interpretation. In affirming so forcefully the unorthodoxy of the 
Comedy, its “intensely personal myth or story: audacious, ambitious and 
avowedly prophetic” (Ruin the Sacred Truths 46), Bloom does much to rescue 
the fascinating, irreducible strangeness of the poem. 

To obtain a clearer idea of what a properly post-structuralist approach to the 
Divine Comedy might entail, we can take as a measure a recent book published 
not in America but in Britain, Jeremy Tambling’s Dante and Difference. 
Tambling’s study is the product of wide and interesting reading, but its main 
theoretical source is the work of Derrida, which it sets out systematically to 
apply to the discussion of Dante's poem. It takes over from Derrida the concepts 
of the endlessly elusive nature of the signifier — the principle that writing 
only leads to more writing and never to a stable meaning, still less to the world 
or to truth — and of the consequently irreducible presence in language, and 
therefore in all representations of the world and the self, of contradictions, 
fissures, gaps. The “difference” of the title relates to “those elements of Dante’s 
Commedia that . . . effectively deconstruct the author’s enterprise,” that show 
how the basis of conceptual thought “lies in the concealment of something 
‘other’ to it” (1), that resist the “closure” that treats the author as a single being 
(6), that show the Comedy to be about “writing, and nothing necessarily 
beyond” (4); all of this is suggested, according to Tambling, by the famous 
phrase in Purgatorio XXIV (which however refers to the Dante of the year 1300, 
not necessarily the Dante of the Comedy), “vo significando.” 

Part One of the study deals with Dante’s treatment of the pagan world. The 
freedom with which the poet treats the writings of Virgil is taken as evidence of 
a belief in the “arbitrariness and openness inherent in the interpretation of a text” 
(40). Turning to other pagan figures in the poem, Tambling insists on the lack 
of connection between the values that Ulysses, for instance, embodies, and the 
opposed moral viewpoints expressed elsewhere in the Comedy: “Different modes 
of writing fissure the sense of system. . . . Cato and Ulysses are not in a 
continuum with each other” (20). Part Two, on “Writing and Re-Writing” in the 
poem, is to a large extent inspired by one of the few structuralist interpretations 
of the Divine Comedy, “Dante et la traversée de |’écriture” by the French new 
critic Philippe Sollers. “Language in Inferno is in danger of meaning nothing” 


| Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 119 


| (72), Inferno being the canticle which concerns the “intractability of matter” 

' (86). This aspect is associated by Tambling with the “fixed, unchangeable way” 
(81) in which characters in Inferno are represented, enclosed in a “prison of the 

- self” (92). In Purgatorio, on the other hand, there is a “changed poetic” (101), an 
“art which changes materiality” (105); reality is seen as “signifying, suggestive, 
as art... . What is suggested is the omnipresence of the world of symbols” 
(111). But these symbols are understood by Dante in Derridean terms, as stages 
in an endless play of difference. Paradiso supposedly makes this point; “The 
Paradiso’s whole structure, whole set of significations, is provisional, temporal, 

_ deferring meaning, because the ‘actual’ vision is not reducible to words” (151); it 
conveys the “sense that language forms its own world . . . one that is always 
leading forward to more writing” (155); in Paradiso “language no longer serves 
any function in trying to imitate” (147); “The poem starts with language no 
longer speaking . . . and ends with the recovery of the book. . . . the end of 
writing is more writing . . .” (127). Part Three deals mainly with “attitudes to 
language” in Dante’s work, finding in his career “the sense of constant re- 
writings and taking back of previous modes of writing” (132). Dante’s notorious 
habit of revising his autobiography and his view of the world around him 
indicates that he was “‘a believer in the centrality of writing, and accepting all 
writing as essentially fictional” (134); “There is no one Dante, and the revisions, 
lack of endings, palinodes, only enforce the point that Dante does not think of 
himself in terms of being one person” (166). This is the sense which Tambling 
gives to Sollers’s description of the Divine Comedy as “‘a text in the process of 
writing itself". 

In size and degree of authorial commitment Tambling’s book is, as far as I 
know, the most substantial post-structuralist treatment of Dante’s work to have 
appeared so far. But what exactly is he trying to do? Deconstruction in its 
original Derridean form is principally concerned with the nature of writing and 
language in general, much less with the content and properties of individual 
texts. In part this is true of Tambling’s project, no doubt, but what he seems 
principally concerned with is the attribution of an avant-la-lettre Derridean 
knowledge to Dante himself, or at least to the text of the Comedy. This brings 
his approach rather closer to traditional critical practice than his Derridean 
principles might lead one to expect. It is moreover ironic that a book which 
insists so much on the endless play of différance in writing, should propose what 
is effectively a unitary interpretation of Dante’s poem, as formulating a set of 
Derridean principles and as following a single line of development. Tell-tale 
totalizing judgments such as “This breakdown of a clear distinction between 
inner and outer worlds . . . is at the heart of the cantica” (114) show that while 
the content of his interpretation is post-structuralist, the method is much less so. 

This feature of Tambling’s work illustrates one obvious risk in the 
application of post-structuralism to the interpretation of individual texts. Two 
other features may well be more consistent with post-structuralist principles, but 


120 David Robey 


constitute real difficulties from the viewpoint of more philologically and 
historically minded forms of criticism. The first is the highly selective nature of 
Tambling’s discussion of the Comedy, in Part Two in particular. His citations 
in support of his idea of an “art which changes materiality” in Purgatorio are 
drawn almost entirely from the dream sequences and from the exemplary images 
which decorate each of the circles in which the souls are punished. Yet it is to be 
taken for granted that in these episodes the signifying function of the figures 
described will predominate, and it is very far from clear that there is any essential 
difference of the kind he suggests between most of the other souls in Purgatorio 
and those of Inferno. Moreover Dante’s taste for metaphors relating to writing 
and for the inexpressibility topos, together with his representation of the 
protagonist’s journey as a constant forward movement, are a very flimsy basis 
for the leap that Tambling takes, of assigning to the poet, or his text, an 
acceptance of the Derridean concept of écriture. 

The second major difficulty lies in the resolutely a-historical character of 
Tambling’s book, or at least the fact that its history, under the aegis of 
Heidegger and Gadamer, is that of the present, not of the past. The distinction 
between Derrida and Dante disappears; Tambling finds support in Dante for 
Derridean principles, while at the same time using Derrida to explain or rewrite 
Dante, in the manner of Lacan on Poe’s purloined letter. Were this an indication 
of the future of literary studies, it would offer the intolerably tedious prospect of 
confrontation with the same set of ideas wherever in history one looks. 

These same difficulties are also to be seen in an earlier, indeed pioneering, 
American study with which Tambling’s has much in common, John Leavey’s 
“Derrida and Dante” of 1976. Leavey’s discussion is concentrated on the Eagle in 
the sphere of Jupiter in Dante’s Paradise, but its implications extend to the 
meaning of the canticle as a whole. His starting point is again an observation of 
Freccero’s, this time about the “non-representational poetic world” expressed by 
means of difference in Paradiso, an observation that Freccero seems to have 
meant in something of a structuralist spirit, and from which Leavey moves on to 
a post-structuralist position.” His argument seems to be — it is not that easy 
to follow — that the image of the Eagle represents the process of signification 
of the whole of Paradiso: “the eagle as figure (or anti-image) is always a 
secondarily derived and provisionally reappropriative mediation of the ever absent 
nonrepresentational poetic world of the Paradiso” (67). (Freccero had already 
made the point that the “eagle, as unlike an eagle as can be imagined, stands as a | 
figure for the poem itself, a non-representation that is its own reality,” Dante 
214). Here, as in Tambling’s study, a Derridean knowledge of the essential — 
nature of writing seems to be attributed to Dante’s text. 


5 
“Introduction” to Dante, The Paradiso, tr John Ciardi (New York, 1970); now in Dante: The 
Poetics of Conversion 209-20. 


Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 121 


By contrast let us consider a contribution to Dante criticism which is more 
rigorously post-structuralist in its method, though at the same time, 
paradoxically, more conventional in the content of its interpretation. The 
translator of Derrida’s De la grammatologie and a leading American exponent of 
his thinking, Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak has written an essay on the Vita 
nuova under the title “Finding Feminist Readings: Dante/Yeats.” This takes 
issue, in the name of a radical deconstructive feminism, with the more limited 
sort of post-structuralism that Tambling’s and Leavey’s studies illustrate. The 
instance that she attacks occurred at a conference in 1977, where a woman 
participant defended the “brutal sexism” (in Spivak’s view) of the Vita nuova on 
the grounds that “Because the text deconstructs itself, the author is not 
responsible for what the text seems to say.” This Spivak considers a case of 
“deconstruction in the narrow sense” that domesticates or sabotages 
deconstruction “in the general sense,” because it confines its operations to the 
text alone, and arrogates to the critical process a power and authority (a power 
and authority similarly assumed by Tambling and Leavey) wholly illegitimate in 
strict post-structuralist terms. 

To that, in her view, essentially male assumption of authority, Spivak 
opposes a feminist approach that sets out to “show the situational vulnerability 
of a reading as it shows its own provenance with the reader,” an approach she 
feels to be consistent with Derrida’s Glas, an “autobiography ‘about’ Hegel, 
Marx, Nietzsche. . . .” In this case it means showing how her reading of Dante 
is “irreducibly marked and defined by the subject and historical moment of 
feminism” (47). As a result she is lead to the interesting and unusual solution of 
constructing her essay as a set of concentric boxes, the innermost a class paper 
delivered a few years earlier on Dante and Yeats, the next a narrative of how she 
came to write that paper, as a response to the “narrow” deconstructionist’s 
intervention at the 1977 conference, and the outermost a framing discussion 
written for the more recent conference at which the full essay was presented. 

As I said, the content of Spivak’s interpretation of the Vita nuova is more 
conventional than its method, by which I mean that it is more psychoanalytical 
than deconstructive. In accordance with her aim of showing the “situational 
vulnerability” of her reading, she finds in Dante’s text issues of male authority 
and power that parallel those raised by deconstruction in her “narrow” sense. 
Dante’s strategy in the text involves the constant “transference of responsibility” 
in a simultaneous “refusal-recuperation of control.” Through appearing to 
regulate Dante’s actions, Beatrice allows him to assume an ostensibly feminine, 
passive role, dramatized in the initial dream (which “resembles a wet dream’’) in 
which she “incorporates” the lover by eating his heart/phallus. Yet this is 
simply a device which “allows the subject to deconstruct his sovereign motive 
and to disguise its masochism/narcissism.” Beatrice in reality is only an object 
that “remains mute, acts against her will”; she is “kicked upstairs or sublated, so 
that she can belong to God, the absolute male,” and when she gets there the 


122 David Robey 


“dumb broad” is incapable of understanding what she sees, since the proceedings 
(organized by Him “qui est per omnia secula benedictus") are in a language to 
which she has no access. 

I would not suggest that this interpretation will necessarily be of great 
interest to Dante specialists; the interest lies rather in the method by which she 
arrives at it, which illustrates one possible and quite powerful solution of the 
problem of combining post-structuralism and criticism. Spivak is well aware, of 
course, that the feminist approach she outlines is by no means identical with 
deconstruction in the “general” sense. What she is writing is the “theoretically 
impossible biography of that very self that is no more than an effect of a 
structural resistance to irreducible heterogeneity,” so that the feminist position 
she adopts is actually somewhere between “narrow” and “general” deconstruction 
— closer to the latter, therefore, than the position that she attacks, but still not 
a full expression of Derridean principles. Yet the whole argument is informed by 
a higher degree of post-structuralist awareness than any of the studies we have 
considered or will consider in the course of this essay, by virtue of the critique 
with which it frames its own positions. The essentially ungraspable nature of 
writing and tne unreliability of any kind of metalanguage are principles that 
gover every stage of the discussion. 

So far it looks as if either the method of post-structuralist criticism is 
original and the content conventional, or the content original and the method 
conventional. In practice, however, literary criticism tends to develop messily, 
rather than through the more or less rigorous application of theoretical systems 
exemplified in the work we have so far considered. As I indicated at the 
beginning, therefore, I suspect that the main contribution of post-structuralism 
to the history of Dante criticism will come from work that makes much less 
radical claims to originality, combining post-structuralist themes eclectically 
with traditional philological and historicist standards, and thereby avoiding the 
substantial deficiencies that the studies we have considered will have in the eyes 
of most scholars. The model of this kind of work is a critic who has already 
figured twice in our discussion as the starting point of more avant-garde 
approaches, John Freccero. 

Freccero is not by any standard a post-structuralist; as Bloom pointed out, 
much of his work belongs to the tradition of Auerbach and Singleton, and his 
interest in modern theory never leads him to doubt that a coherent and 
determinate meaning can be recovered from Dante’s poem © But we have already 
seen signs of structuralism in the essay cited by Leavey, and elsewhere, in the 
series of influential essays on the Divine Comedy he has published in the course 
of the past twenty years, elements of either structuralism or post-structuralism — 


The point is also made by Rachel Jacoff in her introduction to Dante: The Poetics of 
Conversion, p. X. 


Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 123 


recur from time to time, Alongside the central topics of conversion and the 
influence of St Augustine. Through many essays there runs a strand concerned 
with the issues of writing, reading and representation, in a way that is hard to 


- conceive of without the impact of structuralism and its aftermath. As early as 


“The Dance of the Stars: Paradiso X” of 1968, it is argued that “the 
representation points to no reality, however fictive, beyond itself” (222), and that 
as such it is an “extended figure for what the poet is himself doing as he writes 
his poem” (224). This theme, we have already seen, is developed in the 1970 


~ “Introduction to the Paradiso.” In “Medusa: The Letter and the Spirit” of 1972, 


we are told that “the passage from the events of Dante’s life to the words and 
images he uses to signify them is one that we cannot make” (134). Perhaps a 
shift of influences from structuralism to post-structuralism may be seen in the 
move from this non-referential view of Dante’s poetry to an emphasis on 
problems of reading in “Bestial Sign and Bread of Angels” (1977), according to 
which the whole of the Ugolino episode “seems very much concerned with signs 
and their interpretation” (160); and on the theme of writing in “Manfred’s 
Wounds and the Poetics of the Purgatorio” (1983), where it is suggested that 
“both history and sin are analogues for writing itself” (205). 

I have called Freccero the model of an eclectic assimilation of post- 
structuralist themes, not because he has carried it very far, but because of the 
encouragement which, by virtue of his present standing in Dante studies, he 
seems to have given others to go further in the same direction. I shall conclude 
this essay by considering a selection of these other critics, who have all drawn 
partially on post-structuralist influences to produce studies that cast a novel light 
on Dante’s work — even if many will find some or all of them debatable — 
while at the same time largely conforming to traditional scholarly standards. The 
four books I shall discuss were produced in the course of the last few years, and 
can all be loosely associated with post-structuralism by virtue of an emphasis on 
intertextuality, or on the process of reading, or on the problem of representation. 
They are, in chronological order, R. A. Shoaf’s Dante, Chaucer and the Currency 
of the Word, Teodolinda Barolini’s Dante’s Poets, Susan Noakes’s Timely 
Readings, and Robert P. Harrison’s The Body of Beatrice. 

Shoaf’s subject is the analogy between the “problem of the meaning of 
money” and the “problem of the meaning of language” (8) in the work of Dante 
and Chaucer. Economic developments in Dante’s Italy and Chaucer’s England 
and the consequent “dominance which money had assumed over the lives and 
thoughts of men” (8) led both writers to a particular understanding of this 
analogy, and to give this understanding a central position in their writings. The 
analogy as it obtains in the Divine Comedy derives in the first place from the 


7 
Now collected together in Dante: The Poetics of Conversion, to which the page numbers that 
follow refer. 


124 David Robey 


fact that “As money reduces everything to arbitrary exchange values, so language 
reduces experience to meaning” (12). But while in itself this fact is a necessary 
and acceptable facet of existence, there is the danger in both cases of an 
obsession with, or reification of, the sign, either money or language, at the 
expense of the things for which it stands. For the artist this means an obsession 
with the images that he creates and a consequent depreciation of the world to 
which they refer. According to Shoaf, the Divine Comedy tells a story about the 
dangers of such an obsession, and illustrates a progressive liberation from it on 
the part of Dante the protagonist. 

In a general way this story rests on a distinction between Inferno and 
Paradiso that has much in common with Tambling’s thesis and that of Philippe 
Sollers before him, not to mention, once again, a reading of Freccero’s:’ in Hell 
“the image is the only reality” (41), whereas Paradise is “perfect reference” (23), 
where “‘the sign is false because the referent exceeds it” (61); “Paradiso is only an 
example of Paradise. It is only a coin because it is only a promise” (71). But the 
main interest of Shoaf’s study lies in an ingenious “vertical” reading of the 
thirtieth canto of all three canticles of Dante’s poem, in each of which he finds a 
cluster of imagery deriving from classical and medieval versions of the Narcissus 
story, that serves to develop a “systematic meditation on narcissism” (22) based 
on the money/language analogy. 

In Inferno this imagery of mirrors, water (lo specchio di Narcisso), fire and 
madness (Semelé) occurs in the circle of the falsifiers, and creates a further 
analogy between the error of Narcissus and the sin of the circle’s inhabitants, 
particularly Mastro Adamo. As Narcissus loses himself in his own image, so the 
falsifier “exploits the arbitrariness of the mutable sign to privatize it and thus 
corrupt its reference” (35); he turns into an object and a personal possession 
something which merely stands for other things and belongs in the public 
domain. Like Narcissus and the falsifier, the poet too is subject to the 
temptation to “privatize” language, to “‘fix’ the sign in his meaning — to 
appropriate it to himself” (35), instead of using it as a means to something else. 
Dante represents himself as prey to this temptation in /nferno, and as on the way 
to liberation from it in Purgatorio, whilst Paradiso is his celebration of the true 
“poetics of reference” (39). Narcissus imagery appears in the water/mirror and the 
fire (scotto di pentimento) of Purgatorio XXX, and the theme of falsification is 
brought up in Beatrice’s accusations of error, from which Dante is now 
beginning to redeem himself; the reproach in the line “imagini di ben seguendo | 
false” means that Dante, like the falsifier, was “seeing himself instead of the | 
other” (65). Water imagery recurs in Paradiso XXX in the river of light, but here 
in order to make the point that the proper function of images is to refer to 


8 

"Infernal Irony: The Gates of Hell" in Dante: The Poetics of Conversion 93-109; see, for 
instance, p. 101 on the "tuming back of reference" in the representation of the souls in /nferno 
(though Shoaf may not have read this before he wrote his book). 


Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 125 


something else: the fiume and the topazii are only umbriferi prefazii. To attain 
| this recognition requires faith, the genuine moneta that Dante has professed in 


Canto XXIV, through which one can believe the “promise” that signs contain of 
a real world of objects outside them. 
A pupil of J. Hillis Miller’s, Shoaf shows a degree of allegiance to post- 


| structuralism in this assumption concerning the problematic nature of reference, 
the belief that a leap of faith is required to move from words to the things that 
‘they stand for. One might even see traces of the Derridean critique of 


logocentrism in the idea a narcissistic plenitude of meaning wrongly attributed to 
signs. That is probably as far as his post-structuralism goes, but it is enough to 


_ produce a new and thought-provoking reading of the Comedy which provides an 


| 


intriguing account of certain patterns of imagery in the text, while at the same 


_ time locating itself firmly in history and preserving that sense of distance 


between Dante’s time and our own so notably absent from the studies of 
Tambling and Leavey. Shoaf’s work is not, of course, without its difficulties. 
The reading is highly selective, perhaps on grounds of post-structuralist license, 
and focusses rather too much on more or less hidden levels of meaning — 
Narcissus is said to be a “brooding presence” (39) in Inferno — supposedly 
contained in short sections of the text, which are not systematically related to the 
rest of the work. There is some appearance of circularity in the argument. The 
history is also rather restricted, being limited largely to a general connection 
between economic developments and the content of the text; little attempt is 
made to relate the ideas on language attributed to Dante to other evidence of his 
thoughts on the matter, and those of the culture to which he belonged. 

Barolini’s Dante’ s Poets has little more in common with post-structuralism 
than a systematic attention to intertextuality and citation, combined in her case, 
in marked contrast to Shoaf’s highly selective approach, with constant reference 
to authorial intention and a total view of Dante’s writings. Dante’s poets are 
those, including himself, cited or referred to in the course of his work, and the 
purpose of her discussion is to interpret the citations and references functionally, 
by connecting them to the rest of the work they are taken from, and to the 
context in Dante in which they appear. The poets are divided into three sections, 
Dante himself, his vernacular predecessors, and the classical writers of epic. 
Dante’s autocitations in the Comedy are part of a “unified and continuous 
autobiographical meditation purposely inscribed by the poet into the text of his 
poem” (3). By including in the Comedy the first lines of Amor che nella mente 
mi ragiona (Purgatorio I), Donne, ch’ avete intelletto d’ Amore (Purgatorio 
XXIV) and Voi che intendendo il terzo ciel movete (Paradiso VII), Dante effects 
a revaluation of his earlier poetry that puts it in a both positive and negative 
light. The three quotations are chosen from transitional poems that all “point, 
from within the stil novo, to beyond the stil novo, to the radically transformed 
eros of the Comedy” (84). The positive light thus derives from their contrast 
with superseded views of love, illustrated most notably in Inferno V, the 


126 David Robey 


negative light from their insufficiency in the light of the Comedy’s “fusion of 
the affective with the intellective” (29), of love with politics and philosophy. 

Of Dante’s vernacular predecessors, Barolini assigns a special place in the 
Comedy to Folchetto, who, “on the basis of his converted love and his divinely 
militaristic mission” (121), takes over the position of supremacy previously held 
by Giraut de Bornelh. But the more interesting, if also more speculative, part of 
her argument concerns the absence from the Comedy of Guido Cavalcanti. While 
Dante’s friend remains the model for his style throughout the Vita nuova, from 
the middle of the earlier work and then in the Comedy he has fallen into 
disfavour on ideological grounds, because of his rationalist philosophy and 
“radical negativity” (138). Barolini sees a continuing covert polemic towards this 
on Dante’s part, in the form of a series of allusions to Cavalcanti’s work in 
several episodes of the poem. These culminate in the earthly paradise, which 
purportedly echoes Cavalcanti’s Jn un boschetto trova’ pasturella in such a way 
as to constitute a sort of invitation to him, the offer of a prospect of redemption 
in place of the damnation that would otherwise be his fate. On the subject of the 
classical epic poets, finally, Barolini comes close to Bloom in discerning a 
progressive diminution in Virgil’s stature as the Comedy progresses. Dante, as a 
Christian poet, “sees himself as fulfilling and completing a poetic itinerary that 
begins with the Aeneid and that finds in the Comedy . . . its last and highest 
form of expression” (270-71). 

This is only a cursory representation of a much more complex series of 
arguments, but it should give a sufficient idea of the general trend of Barolini’s 
work. It might also lead one to question her inclusion under any heading of post- 
structuralism, and of my four examples she is certainly the most traditional in 
her approach. Yet small though her theoretical allegiance to the movement may 
be, post-structuralist influences still seem to have played a significant 
background role in shaping her project, as they also seem to have done in 
another recent study of Dante’s intertextuality with a more conspicuous debt to 
Freccero and Bloom: Rachel Jacoff’s “Models of Literary Influence in the 
Comedy.” In Susan Noakes’s book, in contrast, the theoretical presence is much 
more explicit. A pupil of Paul de Man’s, her theoretical position is well- 
developed and sophisticated, but eclectic, as she herself asserts. Her study traces a 
model of the reading process and a history of its development from Dante to 
Baudelaire, all resting on a fundamental opposition between exegesis and 
interpretation; the former “emphasizes the words’ temporal distance from the 
reader” and attempts to reconstitute their original meaning, the latter “emphasizes 
their closeness,” allowing in its extreme form, illustrated by Baudelaire, a “kind 
of reading that knows no rules or boundaries” (12, xiii). The distinction seems to 
correspond substantially to that in E. D. Hirsch’s Validity in Interpretation 
between meaning and significance, and like him Noakes sees the reading process 
as a constant back-and-forth movement between the two poles. 

Boccaccio, as the advocate of exegesis and the “notion of the autonomous 














Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 127 


text” (94), helped to impose on Western culture for centuries a view of meaning 
as changeless truth, a view now supplanted by the “acute anxiety about the 
instability of the reader and the reading process” which is the “hallmark of 
literary modernism” (p. xi). Dante’s position in Noakes’s story is somewhere 
between these two extremes, and much closer than Boccaccio’s to a recognition 
of reading’s real historical nature. Her thesis, which once again cites Freccero as 
a general influence (38n), centres on a neatly argued re-interpretation of the Paolo 
and Francesca episode. Investigating its intertextual references to the prose 
Lancelot, she proposes that the two lovers’ real error was not to read properly a 
text that, far from offering an incitement to adultery, actually contains an object 


_ lesson against it, and even a warning of the dangers of misreading. What Dante 


the protagonist learns from the episode is “that readers . . . are unreliable and that 
authors . . . cannot control the meaning of their texts” (48) — which is the 
reason why he faints at the end of the canto. The same lesson is embodied 
metaphorically in the episode of Geryon. Here the link between Dante’s cord and 
the monster indicates that “an author with good intentions may see his work 
metamorphosed into a fraud”; and the poet’s descent on Geryon’s back shows 
that “his poem can continue only through the use of fraudulent language,” 
because “Once set down in a text, words establish resonances with one another 
whether their putative author wishes them to or not” (63, 65). In Paradiso XIII, 
finally, Dante learns from St Thomas that “skill in the art of interpretation 
depends upon a proper understanding of time” (50), and Dante is able to “accept 
what time . . . will do to his words because he seems them all — time, words, 
and readers — as in the hands of God” (67). 

Noakes’s position is associated with an attractive sense of social mission, 
concerning the need to acknowledge the temporal nature of reading, as well as an 
admirable insistence on the use of plain language. On the whole its allegiance is 
more semiotic than deconstructive: its view of reading has much in common 
with that proposed, for instance, in Eco’s La struttura assente; and in an article 
of 1984 she aligns her theme of Dante’s understanding of the dangers of reading 
with the semiotic concept of the antithetical hypersign. Nevertheless the post- 
structuralist component of her argument is strong, notably in her notion of the 
essential autonomy of words, their ability to mean the exact opposite of that 
which their authors intended — although she has reservations (220) about the 
American deconstructionists’ insistence on the “priority of language to 
meaning.” 

Harrison’s approach is less plainly presented, but rather more strongly, 
though by no means systematically, post-structuralist. It also has elements in 
common with Shoaf’s thesis, sharing much the same sense of the problem of 
representation, and carrying over into the Vita nuova, whether consciously or 
not, something of the same idea of faith in the promise of reference. Like the 
whole material world in Shoaf’s interpretation, the body of Beatrice in Harrison’s 
title is inaccessible and yet essential to Dante; it is the “temporal locus of 


128 David Robey 


animation that authenticates the transcendence of her phenomenality” (29), but 
which can only be represented through a figurative language, a language itself 
represented by the crimson veil that covers her in the initial dream of the book. 
Beatrice’s body thus acts as a sort of material equivalent of the post-structuralist 
transcendental signifier (though this puts it much more crudely than Harrison 
does), constituting an ultimate but unattainable guarantee of the images that 
Dante perceives or creates. The removal of the body through Beatrice’s death is 
the turning-point in Dante’s career that transforms him from a lyric into an epic 
poet: “the lyric voice falls into crisis, falters, reaches an impasse that leads to a 
totalized revision of the past” (166); the consequence is a move “toward 
exteriority and otherness that commits Dante to the irreducibility of the 
embodied historical world itself” (52), a move made possible by the preceding 
attachment to Beatrice’s material presence. This is the attitude that underlies the 
prose, but not the poetry, of the Vita nuova, as well as the Divine Comedy. 
Since the body of Beatrice is no longer there, Dante must instead find his 
guarantee in the future, in a “dream of the meaning of history” (167). “There is a 
mad epic extravagance in Dante,” Harrison concludes, “that remains altogether 
unseemly and unearthly” (170). 

This subtle, somewhat elusive but frequently arresting discussion might 
best be described as an attempt to uncover the psychological genesis of the 
surface developments in Dante’s work. Harrison himself calls his topic the 
“untold story: a story that tells the story of stories and that to some extent 
escapes authorial intentions” (152). It is obviously speculative, therefore, but 
like Bloom’s criticism (and no doubt partly under his influence) it does much to 
rescue the distinctive strangeness of Dante’s work, and it is also reinforced by a 
quite persuasive contrast between Dante, Cavalcanti and Petrarch, drawn partly 
from an idea of Paul de Man’s. “What distinguishes them in their trinitarian 
unity is precisely the status of the other in relation to which a poetic 
subjectivity is constituted (Petrarch), dissolved (Cavalcanti), or overcome 
(Dante)” (36). Dante overcomes subjectivity by virtue of his attachment to 
Beatrice’s body, the “historical otherness of her being in the world” (54); 
Cavalcanti’s subject “retreats into the isolated recesses of subjectivity, where it 
confronts its failure to reappropriate the beautiful through its powers of 
representation” (73); Petrarch’s alternative “consists in constituting lyric 
presence through the relentless poetic lament of absence” (100). The contrast 
between Dante and Cavalcanti, who “suffered his whole life from a wound the 
nature of which remains inscrutable” (168), is particularly suggestive. 

There is a noteworthy similarity of theory and method, and a noteworthy 
difference, between the American work we have been considering and 
developments in modern Italian literary studies, between on the one hand the 
eclectic combination of structuralism or post-structuralism with a traditional 
scholarly approach, and on the other the alliance of semiotics and philology (in 
the European sense) advocated by figures such as Cesare Segre and Maria Corti 





Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 129 


| 
(Robey, “Literary Theory”). The difference lies in the greater tension in the 
. American combination, the fact that post-structuralism offers a greater challenge 
to traditional scholarship than the somewhat emasculated semiotics of the 
Italians. This means that the American combination is theoretically rather 
messy, the Italian much more consistent and rigorous. It also means, I think, 
that the American combination produces rather more stimulating if more 
_ controversial criticism. 
| In this same respect there is a more depressing contrast between America and 
_ Britain, for although excellent work on Dante has been produced on this side of 
_ the Atlantic in the last few years, its variety and novelty, and in particular its 
_ assimilation of new developments in theory, are much less notable. There is a 
_ particularly exciting sense, in the work I have been considering for this essay, of 
a continuing exchange of ideas, an ongoing academic debate in which critical 
theory plays an important part, but without dominating the discussion. Such a 
contrast reflects a general disparity between America and Britain in the field of 
literary studies. There has been plenty of good traditional scholarship in Britain 
in the last two decades, as well as important developments in the field of theory, 
even if we may not to have quite the vigorous profusion of rival schools that 
characterizes the present American critical scene. But the two sides, the 
theoretical and the scholarly, have tended on the whole to remain apart. 

The reason for this contrast may lie partly, on the British side, in a general 
lack of financial resources and the politics of state support for higher education, 
the latter currently combining the rhetoric of the market-place with a 
demoralizing uncertainty of prospects for the immediate future. But I doubt that 
this somewhat dismal explanation is sufficient, and would rather attribute the 
disparity to more long-standing structural differences between British and 
American academic institutions. These concern first the greater ease with which, 
apparently, the divide between different language specialisms is bridged in 
American universities. It is striking how many of the contributors to Bloom’s 
1986 anthology of Dante criticism either hold posts in two languages (in some 
cases including English), or are not institutionally based in Italian studies at all. 
The Dante criticism of Shoaf, Noakes and Harrison in particular, not to mention 
Bloom, has been greatly enhanced by its comparative perspective. In British 
universities language divides are much more difficult to cross, and literary studies 
as a result are considerably impoverished, especially in the present theoretical 
climate. It is significant that Tambling’s book, which is surely one of the most 
interesting British studies on Dante to appear in the last few years, whatever one 
may think of its conclusions, was written outside the context of university 
Italian studies. Secondly, differences in the organization of graduate studies on 
either side of the Atlantic have, I guess, benefitted the development of American 
literary criticism. British graduate students typically begin on a research topic 
immediately after finishing their first degree, and thus still tend to select safe 
subjects and conventional methods. The institution of the graduate school with 


130 David Robey 


broad coursework requirements has surely done much more to encourage 
American students to develop new topics and methods in line with contemporary 
developments in theory, with the excellent results that my survey of Dante 
criticism has tried to illustrate. The British system worked reasonably well 
before the dramatic critical developments of the last two decades, but it is, 
regrettably, not well designed to cope with intellectual change. 


University of Manchester 


Works Cited 


Barolini, Teodolinda. Dante’s Poets. Textuality and Truth in the Comedy. Princeton, 
N.J.: Princeton UP, 1984. 

Bloom, Harold. The Anxiety of Influence. A Theory of Poetry. New York: Oxford UP, 
1973. 

. Ruin the Sacred Truths: Poetry and Belief from the Bible to the Present. 

Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1989. 

, ed. Dante. New York: Chelsea House, 1986. 

, ed. Dante's Divine Comedy. New York: Chelsea House, 1987. 

et al. Deconstruction and Criticism. New York: Seabury Press, 1979. 

Chakravorty Spivak, Gayatri. “Finding Feminist Readings: Dante/Yeats.” In 
Konigsberg, American Criticism in the Poststructuralist Age 42-65; also in a 
slightly different form in Social Text 2 (1980). 

Culler, Jonathan. “Issues in Contemporary American Critical Debate.” In 
Konigsberg, American Criticism in the Poststructuralist Age. 1-18. 

Eco, Umberto. La struttura assente. Milano: Bompiani, 1968. 

Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. Rachel Jacoff. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1986. 

Harrison, Robert P. The Body of Beatrice. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1988. 

Hirsch, E.D. Validity in Interpretation. New Haven: Yale UP, 1976. 

Jacoff, Rachel. “Models of Literary Influence in the Comedy.” Medieval Texts and 
Contemporary Readers. Ed. L. A. Finke and M. B. Shichtman. Ithaca: Cornell 
UP, 1987. 158-76 

Jefferson, Ann and David Robey. 1982. Modern Literary Theory. London: Batsford; 
New York: Barnes and Noble, 1986. 

Konigsberg, Ira, ed. American Criticism in the Poststructuralist Age. Ann Arbor: U of 
Michigan P, 1981. 

Leavey, John. “Derrida and Dante: Différance and the Eagle in the Sphere of Jupiter.” 
Modern Language Notes 91 (1976): 60 -68. 

Leitch, Vincent B. Deconstructive Criticism. An Advanced Introduction. New York: 
Columbia UP, 1983. 

Noakes, Susan. “Intertextuality and Dante’s Antithetical Hypersign.” Semiotics 1984 
(Proceedings of the Ninth Annual Meeting of the Semiotic Society of America). 





Dante and Modern American Criticism: Post-structuralism 131 


Lanham: UP of America, 1985. 95-103. 
. Timely Readings. Between Exegesis and Interpretation. Ithaca: Cornell 
UP, 1988. 
| Robey, David. “Literary Theory and Critical Practice in Italy: Formalist, Structuralist 
and Semiotic Approaches to the Divine Comedy.” Comparative Criticism 7 
(1985): 73-103. 
Salusinsky, Imre. Criticism in Society. London: Methuen, 1987. 
_ Shoaf, R. A. Dante, Chaucer and the Currency of the Word. Norman: Pilgrim Books, 
| 1983. 
_ Sollers, Philippe. “Dante et la traversée de |’écriture.” Tel Quel 23 (1965): 12-33. 
Tambling, Jeremy. Dante and Difference. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1988. 


Paul Colilli 


Harold Bloom 
and the Post-theological Dante 


In a volume dedicated to North American Dante criticism a name that no one 
would expect to find is Harold Bloom’s. The Yale professor has edited an 
anthology of Dante criticism and most of his ten page introduction to the 
collection has been incorporated into the second part (made up of a dozen pages 
and dedicated to Dante) of chapter two in Ruin the Sacred Truths (1989). Dante’s 
name and Bloom’s comments on the Divine Comedy are scattered here and there 
in his other writings. The fact is Dante never receives the amount of attention by 
Bloom as do, say, Emerson, Freud and Yeats. But then Bloom is neither an 
Italianist nor a Medievalist. If anything he is an Anglicist working for the 
greater part (but not exclusively) in the Romantic period. In essence, Dante 
serves for Bloom a role that is very different from the one the Florentine poet 
serves for critics such as Hollander and Freccero. Similar to the Jahwist, Homer 
and Milton, Dante is a witness to Bloom’s theory making. It is as if Dante were 
on the stand testifying in favour of the viability of Bloom’s theoretical 
speculation. Indeed, like all the other authors the Yale critic treats, Dante is a 
secondary character in the hermeneutical drama whose principle player and “poet” 
is Bloom himself. 

Yet, notwithstanding the marginality of Dante in his books, what Bloom 
says about the Italian bard is nothing short of provocative. To be sure, Bloom’s 
depiction of Dante, in all its sketchiness, is an attempted heretical departure from 
the dominant North American variety of theological Dantology that the 
Auerbach-Singleton tradition has spawned. Bloom’s sketch raises a number of 
questions that remain generally unspoken in the pages of the “dantisti” working 
in North America. For example, Bloom wonders why Dante criticism has failed 
to address two important insights by Ernst Curtius: firstly, that Beatrice is a 
heretical element which disrupts the doctrine of the Church; secondly, the fact 
that the system and structure of the Divine Comedy are deeply indebted to the 
Gnostic tradition.! But student of Dante beware! Bloom reads the Divine Comedy 


i Both of Curtius’s insights, which Bloom quotes in Dante’s Divine Comedy (respectfully p. 7 
and p. 8), are from European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages: 1) “Guido Guinizelli (d. 1276) 
had made the exaltation of the beloved to an angel a topos of Italian lyric. To choose as guide in 
a poetic vision of the otherworld a loved woman who has been thus exalted is still within the 
bounds of Christian philosphy and faith. But Dante goes much further than this. He gives 
Beatrice a place in the objective process of salvation. Her function is thought of as not only for 
himself but also for all believers. Thus, on his own authority, he introduces into Christian 





Harold Bloom and the Post-theological Dante 133 


outside of any context that would exact unyielding concern with the canon of 
Dante criticism, or which encourages Patrological pyrotechnics. As a result it 
becomes at times extremely easy to point out the lack of “scientific” 
substantiation in his claims. In other words, the reader expecting Bloom to 
interpret Dante within the frame of mainstream academic Dante studies would be 
tempted to administer Bloom’s medicine to Bloom and judge his interpretation of 
Dante as “weak.” 

But then what is Bloom’s context? This question may be answered only if 
we attempt to understand Bloom’s Dante for what it actually is, rather than 
exclusively concerning ourselves with what Bloom has failed to do in his 
reading. In the pages that follow I will trace the development of Bloom’s Dante 
from Shelley's Mythmaking (1959) to Ruin the Sacred Truths where, in an 
attempt to de-theologize the Divine Comedy, Bloom suggests the possibility of 
a Dante interpreted in a mode that conspicuously resembles the allegory of the 
Gnostics. 

Bloom employs the image of a famous personage from the /nferno to 
articulate the essence of his own critical theory:? “Time is an unreluctant 
Ugolino, and poems, as I read them, primarily are deliberate lies against that 
devouring” (The Breaking of the Vessels 43). Desecration, anguish and death are 
the facts that link Ugolino’s crime to Bloom’s thought. While Ugolino is a 
perpetrator of violence against his own offspring, Bloom’s theory is an attempt 
to explain how later poets counter the aggression of their predecessors by means 
of a contrived form of desecration, expressed through the art of misreading. A 
distinguishing element of Bloom’s exegetical adventures is that he works within 
the ideological space of Christian Gnosticism and the Hebrew Kabbalah. 
According to Bloom, the cardinal feature of the Gnostic vision of origins is that, 
similar to the Lurianic Kabbalah, it perceives a creation that is at the same time 
a catastrophe; a primal crisis that leads people to be estranged from the Divine 
and faced to confront the multiple crises of temporal beings who undertake to 
“know” the primal force of origin while at the same time condemned to inhabit 
the prison-house of lowly historical time. The parallel to poetic creation and the 
anxiety of influence pivots on the fact that later poets seek to achieve the greater 
power of their ancestors, but are paralyzed in their attempt by the violence of 
historical time, which has preordained them as latecomers. Gnosticism, similar 
to the Kabbalah, encourages a psychology of belatedness not solely as far as the 


revelation an element which disrupts the doctrine of the church. This is either heresy — or 
myth” (372-73); 2) “Dante’s system is built up in the first two cantos of the /nferno, it supports 
the entire Commedia. Beatrice can be seen only within it. The Lady Nine has become a cosmic 
power which emanates from two superior powers. A hierarchy of celestial powers which 
intervene in the process of history — this concept is manifestly related to Gnosticism: as an 
intellectual construction, a schema of contemplation, if perhaps not in origin” (377). 

For studies on Bloom see, for example, Fite, The Rhetoric of Romantic Vision, and Mileur, 
Literary Revisionism and the Burden of Modernity. 


134 Paul Colilli 


perception of origins are concerned, but also in its own peculiar manner of 
functioning as a radical misprision of precursor texts. 

What must be emphasized is that the intensely Gnosticized history of poetic 
agon or struggle Bloom has elaborated operates within the world of the psyche 
and as a result the “objective factuality” of external history exercises an almost 
negligible role. Bloom’s psychic or internalized history presents a vast collection 
of prophetic voices. All of this in the name of striving toward an illusory 
freedom from the burden of literary history. 

It is precisely such a critical orientation that influenced the turning point in 
Bloom’s attitude toward the way Dante was being interpreted in North America. 
To be more precise, in Poetry and Repression (1976) Bloom subverts Auerbach’s 
and Singleton’s teachings when he conjectures that “No later poet can be the 
fulfillment of an earlier poet” (88). This notion nourishes what Bloom is to 
write in his introduction to Dante’s Divine Comedy and in Ruin the Sacred 
Truths: namely, that figural interpretation is nothing more than a pious self- 
deception founded on the belief that poetic influence is a form of benign 
fulfillment. If anything, poetic influence is a troping and erroring which aims to 
undermine the past in the name of establishing both the later moment and poet 
as the original. 

Before Dante’s Divine Comedy and Ruin the Sacred Truths the fragmentary 
glimpses of Dante offered to the reader by Bloom add up for the most part to the 
image of a pious Christian poet. 

In Shelley's Mythmaking Dante’s work becomes a negative model for a 
discussion dealing with Shelley’s Epipsychidion and The Triumph of Life. 
Bloom arrives at two conclusions regarding Dante. Firstly, unlike Shelley, who 
employed a convention but at the same time attempted to disown it, Dante 
subscribed to the terms of a convention and did so with congruency and good 
faith (Shelley's Mythmaking 208). What this obviously implies is a sense of 
benign consonance Dante felt in respect to literary history. Secondly, Bloom is 
convinced that the crux of the consonance hinges on a desire that Vergil and 
Dante shared. Dante believed that Vergil represented the best a poet could achieve 
in a state of nature since, in Blooms own words, “among other virtues human 
and poetic, he harbored throughout his poetry a longing after grace, a lament for 
possessing nothing more than mutable nature, and finally, a prophecy of 
redemption. . . . Shelley, as opposed to Dante, is not a Christian poet” 
(Shelley’s Mythmaking 253). What makes Dante a Christian poet and not 
Shelley is the difference between pious imitation and subversion. While it is 
Dante’s intent to imitate the moral best antiquity had to offer, Shelley is at task 
in the Triumph of Life (vv. 176ff) at conjuring a demonic parody of the Matelda 
episode from Purgatorio 28 (Shelley's Mythmaking 254-55).° 


3 The difference between Dante’s Vergil and Shelley’s guide, Rousseau, further informs Bloom's 
orthodox interpretation of the Divine Comedy. Commenting on verses 176-90 of The Triumph 








Harold Bloom and the Post-theological Dante 135 


Dante’s presence in The Visionary Company (1961) becomes less frequent. 
There is no reason to suppose that Bloom had altered his attitude toward the 
Italian bard, but then there is very little evidence. The Purgatorio is briefly 
employed as a grid to gloss the purgatorial typology of George Darley’s 
Nepenthe. Bloom points to the theological economy of Dante’s poetry (the 
passage in case is the dream related in Purgatorio 9) as justification for Darley’s 
explicit references to Dante’s second canticle (The Visionary Company 457). But 
as scant as the references to Dante are there is one remark which foreshadows 
Bloom’s later attitude. In a discussion dealing with Blake, Bloom conjectures 
that many scholars hold the Divine Comedy as the most illustrious solution to 
the problem of the representation of radically different but coexistent states of 
being in religious epics. But for Bloom the three canticles avoid the problem 
completely since they “are visions of the last things, taking place after death” 
(The Visionary Company 23). In retrospect it seems that Bloom was already 
sensitive to a possible disjunction in the theological poetics of the Divine 
Comedy. The rupture hinges on the fact that the appearance of Dante’s poem 
fails to coincide with the reality of human existence. Bloom is evidently hinting 
at an element of discontinuity in the Comedy where poetic invention fails to fill 
the gaps that are present in any logic attempting to justify existential and 
religious mysteries. We could also proceed one step further and acknowledge that 
in this case the poetic text is not in consonance with what are assumed to be the 
the objective structure and finalities of history. 

In Blake’ s Apocalypse (1963), The Ringers in the Tower (1971) and Figures 
of Capable Imagination (1976) we are offered a negligible portion of food for 
speculation concerning Bloom’s Dante. But it is in Yeats (1970) that Dante 
begins to be associated with the Gnostic sensibility as Bloom explicitly states 
how he recites a critical role in the development of Yeats’s Gnostic orientation: 


Always a sincere Gnostic, Yeats cannot conceive of salvation as an historical event, 
nor can he rid his personal religion of the sacramental element so strong in all 
Gnostics. Blake’s casting-out of every aspect of sacramentalism is alien to Yeats’s 
temperament, and in the orthodox symbolism of Dante, with its powerful and 
coherent abstract correlatives, he finds a pattern to encourage his own quest for 
abstractions. 

(Yeats 82) 


Bloom is sensitive to Yeats’s belief that, like Dante, he is a daimonic poet “for 


of Life Bloom writes that in place of eyes Rousseau has “holes”: “He does not see Shelley; he 
hears Shelley’s words and replies to them, or else he intuits Shelley’s thoughts . . . but not as 
Vergil can read Dante’s thoughts, by gazing on his face. . . . What counts again here is contrast, 
between the keen-eyed Vergil, looking for grace, and the blinded Rousseau, well past that hope” 
(Shelley’s Mythmaking 255). Bloom elaborates on Shelley’s diabolic parody of Dante’s 

Matelda on pages 267 and 271 of Shelley's Mythmaking. 


136 Paul Colilli 


whom Unity of Being is most possible, yet whose experiential agony will be 
enforced self-realization which is the agony of self-consciousness . . .” (Yeats 
91). Bloom will remind us in Poetry and Repression that Yeats borrowed from 
Plutarch, the Gnostics and the Neoplatonists the idea of the Daimon as the 
appropriate trope for the antithetical (Poetry and Repression 207). The Anxiety 
of Influence (1973) remains Bloom’s major testament on the rhetorical circuitry 
that conditions and nourishes poetic influence. And Dante indeed makes a cameo 
appearance in the book. While the Dante of Yeats is associated with the 
antithetical sensibility of the Gnostics, the Dante of The Anxiety of Influence 
belongs to a time when “influence was generous” (The Anxiety of Influence 
122). Bloom explicitly states that Dante was free of any sense of anxiety vis-a- 
vis Vergil. In fact, Dante’s aesthetic experience is motivated by love and 
emulation of the Latin poet (The Anxiety of Influence 122). Bloom cites a 
personal letter from Freccero dealing with Vergil’s departure in Purgatorio 27 to 
support his idea. The point is, Dante is purging Vergil’s poetry as a way of 
subsuming it. Moreover, the anxiety of difference becomes a phenomenon only 
in the post-enlightenment (The Anxiety of Influence 123). This view was to be 
corrected in A Map of Misreading (1975), where Bloom acknowledges that 
influence as antithesis is an aesthetic condition hailing back to antiquity. 

A Map of Misreading includes only passing references to Dante, but in 
Poetry and Repression Dante is present in discussions dealing with the idea of 
“strong poets.” Dante is not yet part of the Parnassus of strong poets as are 
Petrarch, Milton and others for he did not experience the pathos of difference as 
did the authors of the Canzoniere and of Paradise Lost. Specifically, while 
Petrarch’s lyrical subjectivism is conscious of the distance from the poet’s own 
Sublime, and while Milton stood outside his own Sublime, Dante is not 
concerned with creating the event of disjunction between himself and his own 
Sublime (Poetry and Repression 23). The lack of antithetical revisionism in 
Dante permits him to be at one with his poem. The violence of temporal 
anguish is as a result circumvented, and Dante’s poetic sensibility is bereft of the 
irony-drenched belatedness to be found in later poets. 

But if Dante is still seen to be working within a mode of consonance, the 
figural approach which is central to theological poetics is characterized as having 
grave shortcomings. For Bloom, a later poet “can be the reversal of the 


4 Throughout the lengthy volume on Yeats, Bloom seeks to impress upon his readers that for 
the Anglo-Irish poet Dante, along with the Greeks, enjoyed a special status as far as the 
properties of the imagination are concerned. Yeats formulates the properties or systems of 
thought which the Greeks and Dante were in possession of in the following terms: “I wished for 
a system of thought that would leave my imagination free to create as it chose and yet make all 
that it created, or could create, part of the one history, and that the soul’s” (cited in Yeats 226). 
What is at issue here is the “strong” imagination’s ability to generate a Gnostic apocalypse, a 
vision of truth that is contained in the history of a highly personalized sublime, but which is 
divorced from “extemal” historical factuality. 


Harold Bloom and the Post-theological Dante 137 


precursor, or the deformation of the precursor, but whatever he is to revise is not 
to fulfill” (Poetry and Repression 88). Bloom’s total discarding of figural 
interpretation will influence to a great degree his change in attitude toward Dante 
in Ruin the Sacred Truths: an attitude that pivots on the expulsion of theology 
from the economy of Dante’s poetics.” However, there exists, to no one’s 
surprise, an “historical” precedent for Bloom’s rejection of figural exegesis. I am 
thinking of the dispute between the Gnostics and the early Church over the 
question of history and the relevancy of the Old Testament. An important 
element in this contrast was Marcion who believed in divorcing Christianity 
from the Old Testament.® Marcion was not a Gnostic in theology but he rejected 
the figurative mode of exegesis which connected the Old Testament and the 
Christian Gospel. He was convinced that the coming of Jesus signalled a 
complete disjunction in the history dominated by the Old Testament. In essence, 
Marcion rejected the idea that the Gods of Moses and Jesus were the same. In 
hermeneutical terms, Marcion thought it was inconceivable that the wrathful and 
retributive God of the Old Testament was a prefiguration of Whom the New 
Testament’s God of love was the fulfillment. Moreover, Marcion rejected any 
interpretive strategy that privileged the continuity of history and that ignored the 
anguish of human existence. He favoured an antimonianistic approach where 
history is perceived as being both fragmented and much too limited to subsume 
the polarities of the existential condition. 

The similarities between Marcion’s anti-figuralism and Bloom’s rejection of 
any sort of “historical fulfilment” governing texts are very evident. But with 
what mode of interpretation can the figural one be substituted as far as Dante is 
concerned? The mode Bloom will select is a variation of what is termed Gnostic 
allegory. This type of allegory, Hans Jonas informs us, moves in the opposite 
direction of the sort of allegory, such as the theologians’, that strives toward 
concordance with and respect of a sanctioned tradition: 


Instead of taking over the value system of the traditional myth, it [Gnostic allegory] 
proves the deeper “knowledge” by reversing the roles of good and evil, sublime and 
base, blest and accursed, found in the original. It tries, not to demonstrate agreement, 
but to shock by blatantly subverting the meaning of the most firmly established, and 
preferably also the most revered, elements of the tradition. The rebellious tone of this 
type of allegory cannot be missed. . . . 

(Jonas 91-92) 


5 For example: “But I cannot proceed . . . until I argue a little, with infinite respect, against 
Auerbach, Singleton, and Freccero and their rigorous insistence upon functioning wholly within 
Pauline interpretive categories of the letter and the spirit, categories that I find frequently 
irrelevant for the crucial figurations of the Commedia” (Ruin the Sacred Truths 39). 

6 For the Marcionite heresy see Hamack, History of Dogma, and Chadwick, The Early Church. 
Pagels’s The Gnostic Gospels is very informative as far as the question of Paleochristian 
Gnosticism is concemed. For Marcion and Bloom see Mileur 96. 


138 Paul Colilli 


Jonas remarks that the Gnostics perceived the author of the original as an enemy, 
as “the benighted creator-god.” A central notion in the fabric of Gnostic allegory 
is the belief that the “blind author” had unknowingly included the truth in his 
partisan vision of the world and thus the task was that of unconcealing this truth 
by “turning the intended meaning upside down” (Jonas 95). 

Marcion’s anti-figuralism, which is the essence of Gnostic allegory, is at 
the heart of Bloom’s critique of the Auerbachian figura as related in Ruin the 
Sacred Truths. Again, the logic that is intended to stabilize figura is shown to be 
weak. How — Bloom asks — can Cato’s search for civic freedom find 
fulfillment in and by means of the purgation Dante sets him to overlook when 
his “historical” quest for freedom was expressed through suicide, which is 
representative of both his paganism and his anti-Caesarism (Ruin the Sacred 
Truths 42)? Moreover, Bloom adds, to what extent is the historical Vergil in 
truth a figura of which Dante’s Vergil is a fulfillment? Specifically, Dante 
overlooks the implications of the fact that Vergil was an Epicurean. Dante could 
have used Vergil’s Epicurean knowledge of pain with its profound consciousness 
that the cosmos and the gods were unreasonable, as a justification that Vergil 
needed Christianity. However, Dante misinterpreted Vergil as one who had faith 
in a rational universe (Ruin the Sacred Truths 42). Bloom senses that Dante has 
misread, but hardly out of naivete, both the historical Cato and Vergil. Such a 
misprision highlights the central nervous system of Bloom’s theory of poetic 
influence. Texts do not fulfill each other, rather they are lies against each other 
and against time. The ultimate problem with Auerbach’s and Singleton’s 
allegory of the theologians is that it privileges a perilous idealization of the 
relationship between texts. 

Bloom is prepared to substitute a figura entrenched in the allegory of the 
theologians with a figura which is a modern configuration of Gnostic allegory 
and owes its articulation to Freud. Freud’s account of repetition compulsion is 
the “figura” which is most relevant to any variety of literary criticism taking 
place in the West. Freud was the prophet of the fact that we were to be overcome 
by the impulse to drive beyond the pleasure principle. With this in mind Bloom 
contends that 


For us, now, the only text that can fulfill earlier texts, rather than correct or negate 
them, is what ought to be called the text of death which is totally opposed to what 
Dante sought to write. 

(Ruin the Sacred Truths 43) 


The text of death, in other words, is intent on killing previous texts by violating 
their intended meaning. This is, to say the least, a very suggestive passage for it 
raises the question of “where is now?” within the context of literary criticism. 
Singleton was seeking to give life to the Comedy by rediscovering its blood line 


Harold Bloom and the Post-theological Dante 139 


which was historically positioned in the Middle Ages. It was Singleton’s 
intention to employ a form of measurement that supposedly best suited all of 
Medieval Europe, Christian theology. Singleton’s now is the Middle Ages, 
while Bloom’s is the post-Freud era. What is being implied in the above passage 
is that any reading of Dante must situate itself in the moment when all illusions 
and idealizations about texts are replaced by the sense of temporal anguish as 
articulated by Freud and others. The allegory of the theologians, then, as an all- 
encompassing tool simplifies the meanings of the Divine Comedy for it is 
oblivious to the nowness of existential anxiety.’ 

The sense of anxious belatedness found in Gnostic allegory encourages a 
prophetic tone in the latecomer writer. Bloom insists that Dante, Vergil and 
Beatrice are depictions not of a given theological idea but of an audacious and 
ambitious personal myth. In fact, not only is the Comedy not in debt to the 
Bible as much as most scholars opine, but contrary to Freccero’s conviction 
Dante’s poem is not a spiritual autobiography in the Augustinian mode: 


Spiritual autobiography, whether in Augustine, Rousseau, or Wordsworth, patiently 
awaits the fullness of time and does not seek an end to history. Prophecy batters at 
history and has a tendency to turn apocalyptic, to hasten the end. Dante was no more 
humble or patient by nature than Milton was... . 

(Ruin the Sacred Truths 47) 


Bloom focuses upon the Cacciaguida episode to support his thesis that Dante is 
more a prophet-poet than a pilgrim-poet. Cacciaguida refers to Dante as the 
reader of neither the Bible, Augustine, or Vergil but “of the great volume where 
there is never change of black or white”: namely, the text of God’s 
foreknowledge of truth, a third testament which “is not Joachim of Flora’s 
Everlasting Gospel and therefore is clearly the Comedy itself” (Ruin the Sacred 
Truths 48). 

For Bloom, Dante’s attempt at self-celebration through his ancestor finds 
few equals as the following verses will serve to attest: ““Coscienza fusca / 0 de la 
propria o de l’altrui vergogna / pur sentira la tua parola. . . ./ Questo tuo grido 
fara come vento / che le pit alte cime pit percuote / e cid non fa d’onor poco 
argomento” (Paradiso 17:124-28; 133-35). Our eyes must turn to what is 
missing in these verses, and what this lofty accolade lacks is any subtext dealing 
with a biblical trope, whether it is prophetic from the Old Testament or it refers 
to Christ’s life in the New Testament (Ruin the Sacred Truths 49). In 


7 It is the latter part of Bloom’s sentence that I would correct: that is, the text of death is the 
opposite of what Dante attempted to write. The fact is, the Divine Comedy is a long meditation 
upon death. True, the poem concludes with a hymn to life, but it is also true that this hymn is 
constructed on the many texts of death as expressed by the voices, damned and saved, that 
occupy the space of the three canticles. The Comedy is a text of death which is obsessed with 
misreading history in the name of replacing it with a history bom in Dante’s imagination. 


140 Paul Colilli 


Cacciaguida’s peroration there emerges, in Bloom’s words, “the pathos of a great 
personality, hardly any man’s follower, Augustine’s or Vergil’s, and needing 
only Beatrice, his own creation as his guide” (Ruin the Sacred Truths 49). 

Bloom brings to a close his thoughts on Dante by commenting upon the 
“supreme pathos” of the poet’s personality as evinced in Paradiso 32:52-93, 
where Beatrice is substituted by St. Bernard. Bloom glosses the passage with 
Freud in mind. The Austrian psychoanalyst had remarked in “Analysis 
Terminable and Interminable” that “A man will not be subject to a father- 
substitute or owe him anything and he therefore refuses to accept his cure from 
the physician” (cited in Ruin the Sacred Truths 50). Bloom purports that Dante 
would owe nothing to anyone be it Vergil, his poetic father, or Augustine, his 
conversionary predecessor. Bloom is convinced that in Paradiso 31, the cure, 
Dante’s redemption, is accepted by Beatrice, Dante’s physician and his own 
creation (Ruin the Sacred Truths 50). With this last statement Bloom wants us 
to reflect on some important questions; the foremost of which is, if Dante did 
not personally accept the cure, and if Beatrice is a heretical myth and thus 
extraneous to the economy of redemption, is the cure that is given to Dante 
necessarily suspect? 

What emerges from this reconstruction of Bloom’s interpretation of Dante is 
that the Yale critic is speaking in a hermetic mode. Bloom is hermetic in that 
his reading is sealed off from the vital pulse of external histories, and by this I 
mean the political, theological and scientific threads that nourish the poetic 
fabric of the Divine Comedy. If there is a shortcoming with Bloom’s attitude it 
is that he rejects the haunting presence of the historico-theological elements in 
the poema divino. But then this is in perfect consonance with his own aesthetic 
worldview which privileges the “history” of the imagination. Similar to Croce 
(but for different reasons), Bloom would judge the theological elements in the 
Divine Comedy as being alien to Dante’s poetic muse. One could also argue that 
Bloom’s insights into Dante are hardly ground-breaking. For example: scholars 
such as Bruno Nardi and Nicold Mineo have already meditated upon the 
implications of Dante the poet-prophet;® Dantists such as Freccero, Hollander 
and Mazzotta have been much more convincing on Dante’s technique of 
misreading texts. And as far as Beatrice being a “heretical myth” designed to 
disrupt church doctrine, all that can be said is that Bloom is vague and sketchy. 
What he does say is more readily accepted by a state of mind that is excited by 


8 Nardi conjectures that the prophetic dimension of the Comedy is not mere aesthetic 
ornamentation: “Poesia, e poesia altissima, é certamente il poema dantesco, come permeati di 
poesia sono i libri profetici della Bibbia; ma il motivo centrale che anima siffatta poesia é un 
motivo morale e religioso, si che chi considera la visione dantesca e il rapimento del poeta al 
cielo come finzioni letterarie, travisa il senso di quello che per Dante é, prima di tutto, ‘poema 
sacro’, perché inteso a narrare la meravigliosa rivelazione allo spirito del poeta da Dio” (Dante e 
la cultura medievale 308). For Mineo see Profetismo e apocalittica in Dante. 





Harold Bloom and the Post-theological Dante 141 


the sound of a radically different idea, than by any sort of philological inquiry. 

But we are here speaking from within a critical framework Bloom never 
claims to have entered. The context within which Bloom reads Dante is one that 
pivots on his conviction that we would be illuding ourselves if we seriously 
attempted to incorporate the theological perspective into our late twentieth 
century forma mentis, for the allegory of the theologians “is simply not an 
available mode for us any longer” (Ruin the Sacred Truths 45). And as we have 
seen, the element of existential terror that Bloom has observed in the Gnostics is 
present in his own theory-making; consequently, as psyche-centered as Bloom’s 
worldview is the anguish of temporality exercises a key role in his exegetical 
adventures. This suggestion means that, according to Bloom, the allegory of the 
theologians could not participate in an existential aesthetics since it could never 
subsume the provisionality of temporality without completely obliterating it. 

If my evaluation of Bloom-reading-Dante is so far correct, then I am 
convinced that the significance of his foraying into Dante studies may be 
uncovered by means of an analogy with Heidegger’s philosophical project. I 
would compare Bloom’s attempt to dislodge theology from its place in Dante to 
Heidegger’s plan to destroy the Western metaphysical tradition. The German 
philosopher argued that rational metaphysics had brought about the oblivion of 
Being’s original capacity to conceal and unconceal itself in a continuous flux. As 
a result, the ontological dif-ference separating Being from beings was forgotten. 
Moreover, one of Heidegger’s chief objects of critique is philological 
historicism: “What can all merely historiological philosophies of history tell us 
about history if they only dazzle us with surveys of its sedimented stuff’; and 
again: “all historiography predicts what is to come from images of the past 
determined by the present. It systematically destroys the future and our historic 
relation to the advent of destiny” (Early Greek Thinking 17). 

In an analogous fashion, Bloom is rejecting the sediments of both theology 
and the canon of Dante criticism that hinges on the allegory of the theologians 
when he announces that the readers of Auerbach, Singleton and Freccero “learned 
to read Dante as they would read theology” (Ruin the Sacred Truths 46). An ill- 
advised privileging of doctrine is the unfortunate consequence and as a result 
everyone forgets what is, according to Bloom, the “original” meaning of the 
Divine Comedy, now lost in the burdening metaphysics of theological 
Dantology: namely, “that Dante’s Beatrice is the central figure in a purely 
personal gnosis” (Ruin the Sacred Truths 46). And just as Heidegger attacks 
historiography because it obstructs our relationship with the future, so too 
Bloom is convinced that because of the emphasis on the literalness of history, 
the exegetical structures of the theologians’ allegory shortcircuits our ability to 
see the irreducible flame of prophetic vision. 

Bloom has unquestionably intuited the path toward a post-theological Dante, 
although he has not fully explored it. However, the term “post-theological” is 
not as sweeping as it seems, for the de-struction of the canon of theological 


142 Paul Colilli 


Dante criticism does not necessarily entail that theology no longer be part of any 
discourse concerning Dante. De-theologization does not exact the discarding of 
religion’s relevance from Dante since a supranatural belief system floods the 
entire poem. To read Dante “post-theologically” means to employ an 
interpretative strategy that does not privilege attempts to reconcile and harmonize 
the Comedy with a religious canon. The problem is, Bloom underestimates the 
relevancy of theology in the Divine Comedy to the same radical degree as those 
who overestimate its importance. To make Bloom’s Dantology viable an 
important notion must be kept in mind. That is, reading Dante through the lens 
of Gnostic allegory, as Bloom does, in no way implies the devaluation of 
theology. Theology is not the exclusive terrain of the allegory of the 
theologians. One can talk about the importance of theology in Dante’s poetics 
without the prerequisite of having to prove the presence of doctrinal orthodoxy in 
the Comedy. Moreover, if we acknowledge that early Christian and medieval 
theologies are very heterogeneous in character, and that heretical teachings are as 
much theology as is orthodox doctrine, we must then conclude that Bloom is 
mistaken for believing that theologians, unlike poets, are not agonists.’ If we 
cast this fallacy about theology and theologians aside and approach Dante’s text 
with an appropriate measure of Bloom’s critical sensibility in mind we will be 
moving, I am convinced, toward one possible alternative to the Auerbach- 
Singleton tradition. An alternative, that is, which is in tune with the ironic 
forma mentis of the postmodern condition. 


Laurentian University 


Works Cited 


Bloom, Harold. Agon. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1982. 

. The Anxiety of Influence. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1973. 

Blake's Apocalypse. Garden City, New York: Doubleday & Company, 1963. 
The Breaking of the Vessels. Chicago: The U of Chicago P, 1982. 

Dante's Divine Comedy. New York: Chelsea House, 1987. 

Figure’s of Capable Imagination. New York: The Seabury Press, 1976. 
Kabbalah and Criticism. New York: Continuum, 1984. 

Poetry and Repression. New Haven: Yale UP, 1976. 

The Ringers in the Tower. Chicago: The U of Chicago P, 1971. 





9 “Despite a marvelous parody by Borges, theologians are not primarily agonists. Dante 
understood that poets were” (Dante’s Divine Comedy 6). 


| 


Harold Bloom and the Post-theological Dante 143 


. Ruin the Sacred Truths. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1989. 
. Shelley's Mythmaking. New Haven: Yale UP, 1959. 
. The Visionary Company. Ithaca: Cornell UP. 
_ . Yeats. New York: Oxford UP, 1970. 
Chadwick, H. The Early Church. New York: Penguin Books, 1967. 
Curtius, E. European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1973. 
Fite, D. The Rhetoric of Romantic Vision. Amherst: The U of Massachusetts P, 1985. 
Harnack, A. History of Dogma. Tr. Neil Buchanan. New York: Dover Books, 1900. 
Heidegger, M. Early Greek Thinking. Tr. David Farrell Krell and Frank Capuzzi. San 
Francisco: Harper and Row, 1975. 
Jonas, H. The Gnostic Religion. Boston: Beacon Press, 1958. 
Mileur, J. P. Literary Revisionism and the Burden of Modernity. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1985. 
Mineo, N. Profetismo e apocalittica in Dante. Catania: U of Catania, 1968. 
Nardi, B. Dante e la cultura medievale. Roma: Laterza, 1983. 
Pagels, E. The Gnostic Gospels. New York: Random House, 1979 


Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: 
Modern American Translation of the Commedia 


The importance of Dante translation for the literary history of the poem’s 
reception in the Anglo-American tradition has long been recognized. 
Fundamental studies between the late 1940s and early 1960s by Angelina La 
Piana, Werner Friedrich, Gilbert Cunningham and William De Sua went a long 
way towards establishing the history and criticism of Dante translation as an 
important division of Dante studies. Yet over the last thirty years, despite the 
intrinsic interest of the subject, criticism of Dante translation has for the most 
part been limited to reviews of individual translations and only occasional 
allusions in the literature on the theory of translation. Moreover, since all the 
earlier studies end their treatments before the period of Charles S. Singleton’s 
activity, that scholar’s own translation as well as major American verse 
renderings since Singleton by Mark Musa and Allen Mandelbaum have not yet 
been integrated into any kind of larger critical or historiographic context. The 
relatively uncultivated current state of study in the field is remarkable, for 
translation itself has emerged during the postwar period as a central issue in 
linguistics and literary criticism. One might have expected the potential 
relevance of Dante translation to a general history and theory of translation to 
have stimulated greater critical interest. It seems appropriate to ask then, from 
the perspective of the last decade of the second half of the twentieth century, if a 
contemporary critical perspective on translation can shed any light on the literary 
history of “Dante into English” in the twentieth century, and especially modern 
American translation during the postwar period. 


I. Translation Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: A Theoretical 
Framework 


nulla cosa per legame musaico armonizzata si pud de la sua loquela in altra 
transmutare, senza rompere tutta sua dolcezza e armonia. 
(Convivio I, vii, 14) 


Dante’s famous pronouncement on poetic untranslatability provides an ideal 
point of departure for a critical consideration of the translation history of the 
Commedia, perhaps the most untranslatable of the great literary classics. For 
Dante, translation of poetry entails the rupture and disarticulation of an 





Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 145 


inextricably constitutive bond. The rare and untranslatable adjective musaico 
connotes simultaneously both immaterial (inspirational) and material (musical) 
natures which merge to make up poetic language.' The legame musaico joins 
together spirit and matter, what Walter Benjamin calls intentio and the mode of 
intention. The poetic signified cannot be separated from the profoundly 
conventionalized signifiers of the original, “without breaking all its sweetness 
and harmony.” 

Adopting Dante’s view, one can reverse Walter Benjamin’s formula and, 
rather than speak of translatabily, say that “a specific significance inherent in the 
original” (71) manifests itself in its untranslatability; thus if translation is a 
mode, untranslatabilty must be an essential feature of certain works. 
Paradoxically, Dante’s preventive theoretical assertion of untranslatability is 
proved historically in the Anglo-American tradition by the apparently infinite 
translatability of the Commedia. What is the specific significance expressed by 
the fact that the most untranslatable of poems is the most translated?? 


* 


Dante’s position goes back at least to St. Jerome, has been reiterated down 
through the centuries, and remains a fundamental tenet of contemporary 
translation theory.2 Roman Jakobson expressed it memorably in modern 
linguistic terms: “In poetry, verbal equations become a constructive principle of 
the text. . . . any constituents of the verbal code — are confronted, juxtaposed, 


1 Chiappelli may have had this dual meaning of musaico in mind when he titled his 1985 

collection of essays Il legame musaico. For a succinct review and bibliography on the 

expression, see the note to the passage in the Vasoli-De Robertis Convivio (47-48). 

Alessandro Niccoli has suggested that one can attribute to musaico a meaning “in pari misura 

allusivo all’ispirazione poetica e alla melodia musicale” (musaico in Enciclopedia dantesca Ill 

1059). A recent translator of the Convivio, Ryan, forced to choose between muses or music in 

his rendering, opts for music (26) while George Steiner’s gloss-translation of the passage 
highlights the muses (After Babel 241). Lansing’s translation of the Convivio misses the 

ambiguity, translating “nothing harmonized according to the rules of poetry” (18). 

2 There have been more translations of the poem into English than into any other language, and 
more English translations of Dante’s poem than of any other poet. Since La Piana (72) and De 
Sua (17) first observed this fact, Dante translators have kept up the pace. Cunningham’s census 
up to 1966 indicated a rising market. There have been many translations since then including 
those completed during the 1980s by Sisson, Musa, and Mandelbaum. Ahem notes two others 
from the 1980s by Nicholas Kilmer and James Finn Cotter (“L’aquila tra gli indiani” 231). An 
important work “in progress” is Tibor Wlassics’s terza rima translation. Yet to be published as a 
book, the /nferno has been circulating informally and has served in Dante seminars at the 

University of Virginia. 

3 The Vasoli-De Robertis edition gives as a possible source (taken from Busnelli-Vandelli who 
took it from Toynbee) a passage from St. Jerome from the /nterpretatio Chronicorum Eusebii, 

Praef., 1 -2 (PL XXVII, 223). Steiner discusses some of the history of this point of view (After 

Babel 239-44). 


146 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


brought into contiguous relation according to the principle of similarity and 
contrast and carry their own autonomous signification. Phonemic similarity is 
sensed as semantic relationship. . . . poetry by definition is untranslatable” 
(238). Poetry’s untranslatability derives however finally from the nature of the 
relations between languages “after Babel.” Benjamin made this point with the 
example of German Brot and French pain which mean the same thing but whose 
modes of meaning differ: “It is owing to these modes that the word Brot means 
something different to a German than the word pain to a Frenchman, that these 
words are not interchangeable for them, that, in fact, they strive to exclude each 
other. As to the intended object, however, the two words mean the very same 
thing” (74). In his gloss on Benjamin’s example, Paul de Man related this 
fundamental principle to the more familiar theoretical problem of the distinction 
between hermeneutics and poetics: “When you do hermeneutics, you are 
concerned with the meaning of the work, when you do poetics, you are concerned 
with the stylistics or with the description of the way in which a work means. 
The question is whether these two are complementary, whether you can cover the 
whole work by doing hermeneutics and poetics at the same time. . . . The two 
are not complementary, the two may be mutually exclusive in a certain way, and 
that is part of the problem which Benjamin states, a purely linguistic problem” 
(40). 

This “purely linguistic problem” at the root of poetry’s untranslatability 
suggests a theoretical framework for the consideration of recent American literary 
history of the Commedia. Indeed, Jakobson’s gloss on the old Italian proverb 
traduttore traditore: “Translator of what meaning, betrayer of what values” (238) 
is apposite. Do hermeneutic or poetic values of the original most engage the 
translator? Which take the lead in the translator’s re-presentation of the original? 
As de Man has suggested, to pay attention to both at the same time is difficult if 
not impossible for they seem not to be complementary but mutually exclusive 
to a certain extent. The translation history of “Dante into English,” in fact, 
reflects a dialectic between hermeneutic and poetic modes, between intentio and 
mode of intention at a series of levels ranging from that of the single rendering 
to the macrostructure of an entire translation in its choice of meter. At a higher 
level of abstraction, the dialectic between hermeneutics and poetics finally 
emerges as literary history. There it is writ large in the balance of power which 
exists at any given moment between the academy and literature, that is, between 
the competing claims which criticism and poetry respectively make to be the 
legitimate heirs of the great literary classic. 

The translator of the Commedia, in the choice of prose, blank verse or terza 
rima, locates the translation in a preliminary and programmatic way somewhere 
on a scale running between hermeneutic and poetic poles of re-presentation. 
Thus, the traditional problem of the choice of form can act as a macroscopic 
index of general trends. Prose purports to be the ideal medium for delivering 
“meaning” at one end of the scale while at the other terza rima jealously 





Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 147 


privileges the poetic character of the original (“terza rima or nothing”). Blank 
verse formally occupies a middle position, and potentially offers a range of 
compromise between the hermeneutic/heuristic mode of the prose translation and 
the poetic mode of terza rima. The three options formally characterize the history 
of the theory and practice of translation of the Commedia and provide a grid 
against which to consider and describe general trends in translation as well as 
individual translations. 

Prose, blank verse and terza rima constitute a system displaying significant 
points of correspondence with the tripartite models which have generally 
characterized theories of translation since the seventeenth century, including in 
some noteworthy respects the theorizations devised by Dryden and Goethe.* 
Prose translation corresponds to the first category, what Dryden and subsequent 
theory has termed metaphrase. Goethe deemed this kind of translation appropriate 
for edification and ideal for “a youth’s cultural development”: “I honor meter and 
rhyme, for that is what makes poetry poetry, but the part that is really, deeply, 
and basically effective, the part that is truly formative and beneficial, is the part 
of the poet that remains when he is translated into prose” (From My Life 365). 
Beginning with John A. Carlyle (Inferno, 1849), this hermeneutic mode of prose 
translation has served not only the academic community, but general readers as 
well, especially since the turn of the century, through the editorial venue of the 
pocket sized Temple Classics Dante. The prose literalist affirms the 
untranslatability of poetry, but at the same time implicitly asserts that the loss 
is not so great. Indeed, as De Sua noted, “the prose literalist identifies ‘real 
meaning’ or ‘true meaning’ with the prose sense of the model” (57). Prose 
translation, however, does not typically make great claims for the importance of 
translation as a literary mode. Where translation would serve as a handmaiden to 
interpretation, as a crib or a trot, the translator’s task may be considered 
mechanical and secondary in nature. 

Blank verse translations correspond to what Dryden called paraphrase and 
Goethe, less sympathetically, parody. Blank verse translations substitute a native 
meter for the alien terza rima. Accordingly, the fundamental ideology of blank 
verse translations of the Commedia is that of naturalization. The blank verse 
translator appropriates the foreign poem to English literature by recasting it into 
the native English form par excellence: blank verse. Indeed, the form and manner 
of the original terza rima are judged too outlandish to be reproduced in English. 
Henry Cary’s classic blank verse translation of the Commedia (Inferno,1805- 
1806; The Vision, 1814) represents one of the Romantic period’s great 
monuments of translation. Besides the translator’s inspiration and talent, his 
proximity to the English epic example of Milton and the blank verse triumphs 


4 Steiner is the source for our discussion of these theorizations (After Babel 253-60). He 
observes that “the tripartite model . . . has been found widely useful and it seems to fit the broad 
realities of theory and technique” (253). 


148 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


of English Romantic poetry made possible the achievement of a persuasive 
English appropriation of the original. Cary’s Dante effectively became a part of 
English literature during the Romantic period, and was the Dante read by 
Coleridge, Blake, and Melville. 

Blank verse however, suspended as it is between prose and terza rima, can 
tend in either direction, toward hermeneutics or poetics, so that Cary’s blank 
verse naturalization differs essentially from the literalist blank verse terzine of 
his American counterpart, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. This, the classic 
American translation (The Divine Comedy, 1867), reflects a primarily heuristic 
intention, deriving from an idea of translation as a servant to interpretation. 
Longfellow’s goal for his translation, that it represent only “exactly what Dante 
says,” led to a blank verse rendering which, while rhythmic, nevertheless strove 
to be “as literal as a prose version.” S. Basnett-McGuire has observed how for 
Longfellow, “rhyme is mere trimming, the floral border on the hedge, and is 
distinct from the life or truth of the poem itself. The translator is relegated to the 
position of a technician, neither poet nor commentator, with a clearly defined but 
severely limited task” (70). That Longfellow’s blank verse approaches the prose 
literalist or hermeneutic school of translation, should not surprise, given his 
tenure as dantista at Harvard and his academic role among the founders of 
American Dantology.° 

Dryden’s third class of translation, “imitation,” allowed for a freer, creative 
kind of emulation of the original, in the sense that one thinks of Joyce’s Ulysses 
as a rewriting of the Odyssey, or the Cantos as Pound’s version of the 
Commedia. While outside the bounds of translation proper, Dryden’s third 
category needs nevertheless to be kept in mind, for this higher level of poetic or 
literary translation interacts with criticism within the wider context of literary 
history and provides an index of trends in the ongoing dialectic between 
hermeneutic and poetic responses to Dante. Goethe’s third category on the other 
hand is more immediately relevant to the question of Dante translation proper. 
Important for Goethe was the preservation of the autonomous genius of the 
original, its powers of strangeness.® Goethe shows in his third and highest 
category of translation strong affinities for the “estrangement” school of 
translation theory which championed a substantial “otherness” or sense of 
estrangement as an ideal in translation.’ This principle constitutes the 


5 The Longfellow position is originally cited and discussed by Friederich (547-48) and De Sua 
(65). See La Piana on Longfellow at Harvard (46-52) and on his translation (96-114). 
© Steiner writes that Goethe’s third mode “requires that the translator abandon the specific 
genius of his own nation, and produce a novel tertium datum. .. . this type of translation will 
meet with great resistance from the general public” (258). See also Benjamin, a follower of this 
school (80-81). 

The “estrangement” school of translation originally derived from a crisis in translation 
theory, during the late-Romantic period, according to Basnett-McGuire who discusses its 
origins thus: “The Romantic view that poetry and true poetic meaning were outside of language 











Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 149 


distinguishing formal ideology behind terza rima translation of the Commedia in 
contrast to blank verse, since bringing over the alien terza rima into the English 
tradition means maintaining an irreducible measure of difference. Indeed, what 
might be termed a “modernist” attachment to terza rima as a vehicle for 
translations of the Commedia derives ultimately from the “estrangement” school 
in the history of translation theory. One of Dante’s most important modernist 
terza rima translators, Geoffrey Bickersteth, justified his use of terza rima by 
invoking the German poet’s authority. Moreover, Bickersteth makes clear that he 
sought for his translation a transparency with respect to the original, that his 
goal was to illuminate the original in formal terms. De Sua saw Bickersteth’s 
theorizations as the line of reasoning “which seems to have been followed by the 
vast majority of twentieth-century translators who employed terza rima, over 
sixteen in all” (97). Clearly, the terza rimist makes great claims for the value of 
translation as a literary or poetic mode. The terza rima translation will require 
not only a great deal of its public but also, and especially in terms of formal 
competence, of its practioners as well.® 


II. An Historiographic Sketch 


The dominance of terza rima during the first half of the twentieth century and 
especially between 1920 and World War II derived from the cultural phenomenon 
of literary modernism. In fact, literary modernism distinguished itself by i.s 
appreciation of the poetic values of the Commedia. T. S. Eliot, for example, 
argued not only that one could enjoy and profit from Dante without believing the 
dogma but that Dante’s poetry communicated something important even before 
being understood (“Dante” 200). He pointed to the fourteenth century Florentine 
as a master of the poetic art and affirmed that “more can be learned about how to 
write poetry from Dante than from any English poet” (“Dante” 213). At the 
same time as Eliot, Osip Mandelstam seemed to advocate the establishment of a 
kind of formalist criticism of the poem analogous to organic chemistry or to the 
study of geological formations: “A mineralogical collection is a most excellent 





led to the elaboration of two possible solutions: 1) the use of literal translation, concentrating 
on the immediate language of the message or 2) the use of an artificial language somewhere in 
between the source language text where the special feeling of the original may be conveyed 
through strangeness” (66). Schleiermacher (1768-1834) proposed the creation of a separate sub- 
language for use in translation, and he is at the origins of this way of thinking about translation 
which continues into the twentieth century and is reflected in both Benjamin and Pound. A 
recent proposal for the revival of the estrangement school of translation is in Valesio who 
invokes the Prague School tradition connected to this term (47-92). 

8 See also Bickersteth’s expanded discussion of his “Italianizing” mode as practiced by himself 
and Binyon in the Introduction to the 1965 edition of his translation, and also his lecture “On 
Translating Dante.” 


150 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


organic commentary to Dante” (41). In open polemic with the tradition of 
academic exegesis, Mandelstam asserted that modern Dante criticism should 
“wrench Dante away from scholastic rhetoric,” and he observed that a “lack of 
respect for the poetic material . . . was precisely the reason for the general 
blindness to Dante” (43). Ezra Pound, the miglior fabbro, thought of himself and 
was in fact a kind of modernist Dante of vernacular eloquence. He made the De 
vulgari eloquentia relevant to contemporary poetry in a way that it had never 
been before, since at least the fourteenth century. Generally speaking, the 
modernist moment was the time during which Dante exercised his greatest poetic 
influence in Weltliteratur since the Romantic period. The Laurence Binyon terza 
rima translation of the Commedia (1933; 1938; 1943) emerged from this period 
of intense appreciation and study of Dante’s poetic art. 

Ezra Pound’s interest and eventual participation in Binyon’s enterprise is 
familiar now, thanks primarily to Robert Fitzgerald’s elegant and persuasive 
“Appreciation” of the translation. Pound’s enthusiastic support of terza rima as 
the best medium for translations of the Commedia, and Eliot’s as well, are worth 
highlighting.? In a letter to the translator, Pound celebrated a particularly 
successful passage of Binyon’s translation and made the link between terza rima 
and the modernist interest in form and technique explicit. Binyon, he claimed, 
had utterly confounded “the apes who told you terza rima isn’t English. .. . The 
beauty here would only have been got by using terza rima. Lascia dir gli stolti 
who don’t see it and who have been for two centuries content that technique went 
out of English metric with Campion and Waller. Any respect for art or any care 
_ for the technique is unEnglish in the sense your bastardly friends employed the 

term” (Letters of E. P. 315). Pound and Eliot’s approval of terza rima offers 
some historical perspective on current conventional wisdom about its 
inappropriateness as a vehicle for translation of the Commedia. Indeed, while the 
Binyon translation never had much popular success (although it is still in print 
in The Portable Dante), it has continued since Pound to enjoy an excellent 
reputation among poetic and critical authorities like D. S. Carne Ross who has 
called it the “finest modern rendering” (“‘Translation” 3). 

The most distinguishing characteristics of Binyon’s terza rima translation 
are its close formal mirroring of the contour of the original,!° and its openness 
to archaism and artificial diction. These latter qualities have often led to a hasty 

dismissal of the translation. Binyon’s archaisms seemed “Victorian” to De Sua 


9 Bliot wrote: “I think that thymed terza rima is probably less unsatisfactory for translations of 
the Divine Comedy than is blank verse. For, unfortunately for this purpose, a different meter is 
a different mode of thought; it is a different kind of punctuation, for the emphases and the breath 
pauses do not come in the same place. Dante thought in ferza rima, and a poem should be 
translated as nearly as possible in the same thought-form as the original. So that, in translation 
into blank verse, something is lost” (“Talk on Dante” 222). 

10 See Fitzgerald, especially the comparison to Sayers’s terza rima (403-9). 





Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 151 


who concluded that Binyon’s work did not finally correspond to a modernist 
poetics of translation and that Pound and Binyon were actually working at cross 
purposes in their collaboration. But archaism was not inconsistent with a 
modernist poetics of translation as theorized and put into practice by Ezra Pound. 
In fact, Pound’s poetics of translation show a strong affinity to the 
“estrangement” school of translation going back to Schleiermacher. While 
Pound’s modernist revolution in poetic diction would eventually lead to original 
poetry written in contemporary English, his ideas about the appropriate language 
for translation were of a different nature. One need only call to mind the language 
of Pound’s Cavalcanti to know what Hugh Kenner meant when he observed that 
Pound “never translates ‘into’ something already existing in English” (9).1! 

Binyon’s modernist mode of terza rima translation did not survive World 
War Two, although the sense that terza rima (or some modified form of it) was 
the right choice for poetic translations of the Commedia did. During the postwar 
period, both Dorothy Sayers (1949; 1955; 1962) and John Ciardi (1954; 1957; 
1970) offered terza rima and dummy terza rima translations respectively to the 
great masses of readers who did not have any access to the original. Both 
translations, on either side of the Atlantic, addressed a growing postwar market 
of readers, including students at the universities as well as members of the 
general public interested in the “great books,” who needed their Dante in 
translation.!2 

Both Sayers and Ciardi inherited the modernist attachment to terza rima, but 
neither of them attempts to mirror the original in the Italianizing manner of the 
modernist terza rimists Binyon and Bickersteth. The translations are not designed 
to formally complement or comment on the original so much as to replace it. In 
this respect, Sayers and Ciardi betrayed the basic ideological premise of a 
modernist terza rima translation of the Commedia. Moreover, as Robert 
Fitzgerald demonstrated persuasively, despite its editorial success in the Penguin 
series Sayers’s Dante marked a distinct decline in terms of formal poetic 
achievement when compared with Binyon (especially 403-4). On the American 
side also, the most acute criticisms of the Ciardi translation came not, as one 


11 Pound wrote in his review of Binyon’s “Hell” that “The fact that this idiom, which was never 
spoken on sea or land, is not fit for use in the new poetry of 1933-4 does not mean that it is 
unfit for use in a translation of a poem finished in 1321” (206). Anderson makes the same point: 
“[Pound’s] views on the issue of a proper idiom for translation were extremely broad; more so, 
certainly, than his views on the range of diction acceptable in modem poetry. . . . In Binyon’s 
Dante Pound readily accepted an archaic and Latinate idiom, welcoming that is, two of the bétes 
noires of his earlier battles for modemist English poetry. That he did so shows only that he 
recognized differences between the Commedia and modemist poetry, however much the latter 
may have owed to the former” (95). 

12 Ciardi subtitled his translation “a verse translation for the modem reader.” Sayers wrote that 
“the translation on which I am presently engaged is aimed, very particularly, at reaching the 
"common reader’” ("On Translating” 92). 


152 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


might have expected, from the quarter of Dantology, but rather from a poet, 
Howard Nemerov, who criticized Ciardi’s poetic craftsmanship.' In place of an 
ongoing formal response to Dante’s verse, both Sayers and Ciardi substituted 
“populist” notions about the nature of Dante’s diction,!* which in both cases 
function in relation to the public which the translations sought to serve. One 
wonders however, if the translators were not to some extent victims of a 
misunderstanding of the nature of Dante’s revolutionary response to medieval 
plurilingualism.!> Nemerov put his finger on the problem with both translations 
when he observed in Ciardi’s case that rewriting Dante into modern idiomatic 
English does not necessarily bring the translator any closer to achieving the 
intratextual idiomatic coherence and fluency of the original.!© The Sayers and 
Ciardi renderings, also by virtue of their “popular” success, gave terza rima 
translation a bad name, and contributed to a kind of declassification of poetic 
translation of the Commedia. Their performances encouraged skepticism about 
the possibility of poetic translation having any kind of significant formal or 
poetic value with respect to the original. 

Charles S. Singleton himself, in a review of the Sayers translation, widened 
the rejection of terza rima to encompass poetic translation in general. The Sayers 
translation was for Singleton “‘a failure — no worse, perhaps, than a number of 
others in English, but quite as bad. . . . To attempt this [terza rima] is to be 
guilty of hybris, the wages of which is padding at every turn. . .. Once more by 
a failure in verse translation we are persuaded that a prose translation of this 
poem will always be far the better; the recent one by John Sinclair, now 
reprinted by the Oxford Press is certainly the best” (394). 


13 “uncertainty, it appears to me, affects even rhyme and measure in Mr. Ciardi’s translation. . . 
. We are very free about meter these days too; an unhappy chapter in the history of modem 
prosody stands to be written about those people who do not write free verse but a ‘loosened’ 
iambic pentameter. . . .” See also Cunningham on Ciardi’s shoddy craftsmanship (227-33). 

14 Sayers included “a quick sense of comedy among the requirements of a Dante translator” (“On 
Translating” 111). Her ideas about Dante’s “humour” and its negative effects on the translation 
have been widely criticized. See for example De Sua’s treatment (109-10). Ciardi emphasized 
Dante’s “sparse, direct, and idiomatic language” and labored to render it in “something like 
idiomatic English.” See De Sua’s discussion (111-16). 

15 For Dante’s response to medieval plurilingualism see Baranski, who emphasizes that the 
important thing about Dante’s polyglossia is that it is finally ordered within an artistic whole. 
Baransky cites Contini who described the phenomenon as a “pluralita di toni e pluralita di strati 
lessicali . . . intesa come compresenza” (12). 

16 Nemerov: “another sense for the idea of the idiomatic, and, I think, a more important one: 
the idea of the idiom or style in which a work is written. This idea deals with the 
harmoniousness of expression, the rightness of the relations between expressions, in a single 
passage or a whole work; and in this sense I somewhat doubt if we have here a modem idiom at 
all or anything more nearly resembling one than what can be made of a few chance phrases here 
and there which give for a moment a modem color to a language otherwise commonplace 
enough” (363). 





Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 153 


A forgotten footnote in the history of Singleton’s reform, the review of the 
Sayers translation suggests strong movement in the direction of the hermeneutic 
Dante away from the Dante of the modernists. It is important to note that the 
decline in the quality of poetic craftsmanship and sensibility reflected in the 
Sayers and Ciardi translations corresponded during the postwar period to a 
declining level of interest in Dante in the realm of Dryden’s third category of 
translation, that is, of literary imitation. Certainly during the postwar period 
Dante continued to be an important source of inspiration for inheritors of Pound 
and Eliot like Robert Duncan in England and Robert Lowell in America. Even in 
heavily ironized appropriations such as Imanu Amiri Baraka’s (Le Roi Jones) 
The System of Dante’s Hell, Dante continues to be a force, as a modernist 
inheritance. 

But it would have been difficult if not impossible to equal the intensity of 
involvement with Dante which characterized the generation of Pound and Eliot. 
The impression remains that Dante’s stock in the literary marketplace began a 
curve downward during the postwar period. This decline was reinforced by a 
general trend in American poetry away from fixed forms, and precisely the kind 
of formal preoccupations which had been at the heart of Pound’s and Eliot’s 
commitment to Dante in the first place. For poets like John Berryman and 
Robert Lowell, Dante remained an ongoing poetic concern. But the rise of the 
Whitman-William Carlos Williams line in American poetry inevitably led to a 
movement away from Dante. There came to be a growing incompatibility 
between the modernist Dante of Pound and Eliot and the contemporary poetic 
scene in a formal sense. William Carlos Williams’s statement that “without 
Whitman there can be no Dante for me” reflects a poetic stance willing to 
appropriate Dante’s prophetic calling but in polemic with Dante’s poetics.!7 The 
American poet’s ambiguous endorsement expresses a constitutional 
incompatibility between himself and the Dante of Pound and Eliot. The decline 
of the modernist Dante as a poetic model in American poetry has been 
progressive and today one would not expect, given the current climate, Dante’s 
return as a major influence. The case of Seamus Heaney, an Irish inheritor of 
Dante via Joyce, may be the exception that proves the rule.!8 

This decline in Dante’s poetic fortunes took place, in a kind of inverse 
relation, at the same time as the Renaissance in American Dante studies 
inaugurated by Singleton was gathering force. Singleton’s own translation and 
commentary (1970; 1973; 1975), coming as they did after many of his most 
important contributions, consolidated and institutionalized Singleton’s Dante 


17 See Ahem’s “L’aquila fra gli indiani” for further bibliography on the issue. Ahern also notes 
that William Carlos Williams lamented the influence of Dante on the poetry of T. S. Eliot (227). 
18 See Heaney’s “Ugolino” in Field Work (1979) and his Station Island (1985). On Dante and 
Heaney see Kieran Quinlan’s “Forsaking the Norse Mythologies: Seamus Heaney’s Conversion 
to Dante.” 


154 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


within the American academy, where it has since dominated the field. One is 
tempted to see figured in this a kind of changing of the guard between poetic and 
hermeneutic Dantes, and to suggest that hermeneutics and poetics may be 
incompatible at a higher level of abstraction, that of literary history. In a sense, 
the Anglo-American tradition’s response to Dante has been primarily mediated 
by hermeneutics and poetics in a kind of either/or equation. There seems to be a 
larger literary historical sense in which hermeneutics and poetics are not 
complementary, and may strive to exclude one another. For Singleton at least, 
hermeneutics and poetics were not complementary. Singleton’s rigorously 
hermeneutical point of view expressed itself negatively in terms of a marked 
disinterest in the formal aspects of the text. This disinterest in Dante’s poetics 
may ultimately be related to what has been recently identified as a significant 
omission in his interpretation of the poem, that is, an understanding of Dante’s 
conception of the role of poetry itself as the basis of prophetic vision.!9 

Singleton had no hesitations in separating hermeneutics from poetics: a 
major component of his reform was radically to sever all ties to the modernist 
Dante. As George Steiner noted, Singleton excludes from his commentary T. S. 
Eliot, Ezra Pound, Osip Mandelstam among many other “poets, re-readers, 
exploiters who have helped the Commedia live at large” (“Dante Now” 174). 
Singleton’s exclusions are not limited however to the poets. He also suppressed 
contemporary critics like R. P. Blackmur and Francis Fergusson, not to mention 
others prominent at that time like Irma Brandeis, Bernard Stambler, Joseph 
Mazzeo and Thomas Bergin. The most notable case of nearly complete omission 
was that of Erich Auerbach. This exclusion appears to have extended into the 
translation itself as John Ahern has observed, where at Par. XI, 60 the di piacere 
about which Auerbach had written in his Neue Dantestudien, (Istambul, 1944) 
mysteriously falls out of the translation.”° 

The most problematic prose translation predecessor was John Dickson 
Sinclair (1939; 1939; 1946) for whom Singleton had expressed appreciation in 
the Sayers review. Sinclair had achieved a very successful compromise between 
the demands of the source language and those of the target language in his prose 
rendering. He comes very near to an ideal point on the scale which runs between 
greater to lesser literality depending upon the translator’s greater fidelity either to 
the language of the original or the language into which he is translating. 
Singleton elected to move the prose translation a step backward with respect to 


19 See Mazzotta: “The action of song on the prophetic vision, which is central to the 
meditations on what I shall here call theologia ludens, is the essence of Dante’s visionary 
poetry, poetry that is an exploration of and to the limits of human and theological sciences up 
to the encounter face-to-face with God. The sense of this relationship escapes the historical- 
philological rationality of critics like Singleton, but it does not escape Emerson, who has 
caught, as did Vico, the sense of poetry as the basis of vision” (42). 

20 This observation is taken from Ahem’s “L’aquila fra gli indiani” (231). For Auerbach’s gloss 
on porta del piacere, see Studi su Dante 228. 





Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 155 


prose naturalization of the text into English, and his interweaving of the earlier 
Victorian prose translations (especially those of the Temple Classics) with the 
modern Sinclair leaves the impression of archaic diction and syntax which most 
strikes readers of the translation. The translation is more literal than Sinclair’s 
and this differentiation is achieved largely through the interweaving of earlier 
Victorian prose translation precedents. 

Singleton’s translation can also be understood then in terms of the same 
hermeneutic program of appropriation prosecuted in the commentary. Singleton 
stated explicitly that since “Every ‘new’ prose translation of the Commedia is 
doomed to display a coincidence of phraseology with other translations . . . it 
would be a mistake to seek to avoid this and try to make one’s effort strictly 
‘original’” (Inferno 372). Nevertheless, his method of depending heavily on 
previous prose translations left many skeptical and has led to criticism of 
borrowings which are indeed at times “so heavy as to render his work not very 
distinguishable from his predecessors” (Ahern, “Reading Dante” 13).?} 
Singleton’s procedure can be interpreted as an appropriation of previous prose 
translations which is in line with his object of establishing a standard 
institutional Dante for the academy. The resulting translation expresses an 
extreme literalist interpretation of the ideology of prose translation of the 
Commedia. The translation of poetry is impossible; therefore we get a word by 
word crib designed to help us read the original for ourselves. The prose rendering 
constantly points to the original, and seeks to serve as a bridge to it. Singleton’s 
archaic flavor and sometimes inarticulate or distracting literality (when compared 
with Sinclair) reflects an intentional strategy designed to drive the reader to the 
original. As Steiner observed: “Professor Singleton’s own stance is plain: 
anyone who is serious about the Commedia, which is the touchstone of the 
human perception of the rationale of mature existence, will take the trouble to 
trail after Dante in the ‘noble vulgate.’ The prose parallel in these volumes is 
only meant to be Limbo” (“Dante Now” 174-75). 

The obvious, rather melancholy question which emerges at this point, given 
the extremely rigorous and fastidious position taken by Singleton in his 
translation and commentary, is whether or not Singleton’s Dante would ever find 
readers outside the academy. This relates in turn to the more general question of 
the extent to which Dante is readable or translatable within a contemporary 
literary context. Steiner speculated for example that “Coming after the Nazi- 
Stalinist bloodsports, we are less ready to tune in with these sanctified 
bestialities [of the Inferno)” (“Dante Now” 181) and concluded that “Dante is 
fairly well absent from the syllabus, from the currency of pleasure and 
implicitness which make a classic text ramify into daily feeling. He comes to us 
in snippets and at second hand” (“Dante Now” 182). More recently John Ahern 


21 Recently Wlassics in an “Endpaper” urged Princeton UP to redefine the Bollingen Dante “as a 
revision of John Sinclair’s translation” (111). 


156 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


has pointed to Dante’s compromised position within the context of 
contemporary pluralistic cultural models of inclusiveness, as a classic exponent 
of Western “imperialist” Culture (“L’aquila fra gli indiani” 232-34). Both Steiner 
and Ahern respond by making claims or rather pleas for Dante’s contemporary 
literary relevance. Steiner on the one hand argues that Dante’s poetry is where 
“the logic of European union has its best substance” (“Dante Now” 183) and that 
it embodies an encyclopedic poetics which has a particular relevance to us in a 
technological age. Ahern sketches a contemporary portrait of a culturally 
relativistic Dante who gives expression in his poem to a profound ambivalence 
towards “il costo di creare e mantenere gli imperi” (“L’aquila fra gli indiani” 
233), and an appreciation of diversity, a willingness to encounter “the other.” 
Both these attempts, from the late 1970s and the late 1980s respectively, to 
argue for the contemporary relevance of Dante’s poem, however laudable, when 
considered against the background of the contemporary cultural scene, may well 
strike one as quixotic. 

Meanwhile, blank verse translation, which has dominated the field since the 
Singletonian Renaissance in Dante studies, continues to express a faith in 
Dante’s contemporary poetic translatability and readability. Thomas Bergin’s 
translation (1948, 1953, 1954, partial cantiche; complete Commedia, 1969) is 
an important early example, especially significant for its independence with 
respect to Singleton’s reform. Within the wider context of twentieth century 
translation, when compared to the extensive and very successful terza rima 
translations of the poem by the previous generation’s most distinguished Dantist 
Charles Grandgent,~ Bergin’s blank verse reflects a movement in the direction of 
hermeneutics as opposed to that of poetics. But Bergin had a more objective 
perspective than Singleton on the changing of the guard between the poetic and 
hermeneutic Dantes which he later described in a balanced review of the 
Singleton commentary and translation entitled “Dante in our Time.” There he 
noted sympathetically Cambon’s famous reservation that the Singletonian 
emphasis on allegorical interpretation might have well entailed losses “on the 
side of poetic immediacy” (713).”3 Not surprisingly then, Bergin’s blank verse 
displays “‘a nervous vigour similar to Dante’s manner” (Cunningham 189), and 
is distinguished by the liberties it takes from the original. Bergin clearly 
approached the original as poetry and not as Holy Writ. Consequently his blank 
verse is notably freer with respect to the literal prose meaning of the original 
than the subsequent blank verse translations of Mark Musa and Allen 
Mandelbaum. Indeed, the two most important American poetic translations since 
Singleton reflect the exigencies of the American Renaissance of Dante criticism 
and the contemporary emphasis on hermeneutic values in their rigorous 


22 See Cunningham on Grandgent’s translations (92-95). 
23 Cambon’s caveat, originally made in Dante’s Craft (2), was recently remembered by Joy 
Potter in her commemorative essay “Glauco Cambon” (124). 





Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 157 


_ adherence to the prose meaning of the original, an adherence facilitated by the 
adoption of the blank verse meter. That hermeneutic as opposed to poetic and 
formal imperatives of the source text condition and characterize the Musa and 
Mandelbaum translations can be observed in their respective justifications of 
their blank verse practice. 

Mark Musa’s “Translator’s Note: On Being a Good Lover” (/nferno, 1984 
[1971]” clearly reflects the naturalizing ideology identified as the distinctive 
feature of blank verse translation (“the first of the Capital Sins in translating is 
for a translation to sound like one” 62). Musa’s motivations for choosing blank 
verse are standard: “I have chosen this first, because blank verse has been the 
preferred form for long narrative poetry from the time of Milton on.” Musa 
argues his theory of translation completely from the perspective of the target 
language and its perceived requirements. 

This naturalizing ideology so much dominates translation practice today that 
it is easy to overlook the fact that the unique position of Dante’s terza rima 
within the Italian tradition is completely reversed by English blank verse 
translations of the poem.” As The Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics 
reports, blank verse “has no inherent tone. Except for free verse, it is the form 
Closest to the form of our speech. . . . no one poet, not even Shakespeare or 
Milton has stamped b.v. forever with the mark of his own style” (78). Blank 
verse translations then fundamentally alter the original formal terms of the 
poem’s relationship to its tradition in the original Italian, in other words, its 
mode of intention. 

But the ideological character of Musa’s naturalizing theory of translation is 
perhaps most apparent when the positive argument for blank verse develops into 
an argument against rhyme in English poetry as a general principle: “It cannot 
be proved that rhyme necessarily makes verse better; Milton declared rhyme to be 
a barbaric device, and many modern poets resolutely avoid it.” Musa’s position 
corresponds perfectly to the times in which he was translating. For example, one 
1975 anthology of professional “creative writing” university poets containing 
over three hundred poems by more than seventy authors, has fewer than two and 
a half percent which depend on anything like fixed forms, and only seven poems 
which use end-rhyme in any way (Fussel 151). 

Musa’s highly ideological theories about the appropriateness of blank verse 
as a medium for translations of the Commedia give way to a critique of terza 


24 For terza rima’s very different history within the Italian tradition, see terzina in the 
Enciclopedia dantesca (V, 592-94). 

It is ironic that Musa cites as an authority for his position on rhyme the poet Karl Shapiro 
(and his essay on rhyme) who in another context than theory of rhyme made his ignorance of 
Dante a point of pride: “I have nothing to say about Dante. I can’t read Italian, and in English 
he is pure nonsense. It delighted me to read . . . he had been banned for Moslem countries. I fight 
censorship in this country, but I am definitely in favor of banning Dante in Pakistan. Literary 
imperialism holds no attractions for me” (To Abolish Children 201-2). 


158 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


rima predecessors, particularly his major editorial competitors Sayers and Ciardi, 
who make relatively easy targets. The subtext beneath this discussion is the 
editorial competition between Musa and his predecessors. One notes that 
Penguin (1984) has recently brought out a new edition of the Musa translation 
in tacit recognition of the victory of his blank verse over Sayers’s terza rima. 
Musa’s concluding primer of versification as a guide to reading suggests an ideal 
reader who is a novice at reading not so much Dante’s poetry as any kind of 
English verse. Musa makes little or no connection between his own prosodic 
practice and that of Dante, but rather seems concerned that the undergraduate 
reader know how to read blank verse properly. Like Sayers and Ciardi before 
him, Musa writes for those who cannot get their Dante in the original. 

The heuristic virtues of the Musa translation are well known and it enjoys 
extensive classroom use. The translation emerged at the height of the 
Singletonian Renaissance in Dante criticism, and represents what one might 
somewhat paradoxically call a hermeneutic poetic translation of the Commedia. 
Reviewers have noted how the translation itself privileges interpretation, for 
example when the scholar-translator’s interpretation is written into the 
translation instead of a more literal rendering.” Moreover, Musa’s extensive 
commentary, as G. Cecchetti observed, “vede la Commedia esclusivamente come 
iter hominis in Deum . . . e spinge alle estreme conseguenze una lettura 
recentissima, specialmente americana, che tende a misticizzare il poema al 
massimo . . .” (108). From our perspective, the translation and commentary can 
be seen primarily as vehicles for the scholastic dissemination of a “Singletonian” 
reading of the poem. The relatively thin veil of theoretical justification for blank 
verse translation betrays a relative disinterest in poetic as opposed to hermeneutic 
values of the original. 

In the Introduction to his 1980 Inferno, the poet-scholar Allen Mandelbaum 
distinguishes himself from the scholar-poet Musa by discussing directly what he 
takes to be stylistic features of the original and describing the techniques 
employed by the translator to render them. One cannot avoid the impression 
however that Mandelbaum’s theoretical discussion primarily serves to cover up 
his substantial disinterest in “mirroring” the Commedia in a modernist sense. 
Curiously, the entire theoretical discussion can be read as an elaborate swerve 
away from the question of terza rima. 

Reductively limiting the discussion of Dante’s terza rima to a consideration 
of only the tercet ABA (ignoring the interlocking BCB), Mandelbaum discovers 
that the ternary pattern (ABA) exists at two other levels. First, within the 
hendecasyllabic line itself, the typical accent on the sixth and central syllable 


26 These are what Tusiani aptly called in a review “exegetical interpolations” (338). An 
example from /nf. I is the controversial “si che il pié fermo era sempre il pit basso,” which 
Musa translates: “I dragged my stronger foot and limped along” — a rendering which makes 
explicit his allegorical interpretation at the expense of the letter. 








Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 159 


serves as a kind of center for accents on the fourth and eighth syllables, 
“symmetrically placed to its right and left.” Second, Mandelbaum reveals another 
level of reinforcement of the ABA tercet structure in the vowel consonant vowel 
(VCV) alternation which is typical of Dante’s feminine rhymes: “a reinforcement 
that may seem as astonishing as the metamorphoses of Canto XXV. For the 
most frequent word termini in Italian are vowel consonant vowel termini; and 
that VCV echoes, on still another level, the ABA of the first two levels” (xxi). 
Mandelbaum concludes from this theory of the tercet ABA that English does not 
have many VCV “termini” and thus can “never mime the depth of that prosodic 
intuition.” 

Significantly, at the point of greatest distance from a discussion of the real 
poetics of the text or the critical issue of terza rima versus blank verse 
translation, Mandelbaum interjects parenthetically his motivation for “foregoing” 
tercet rhyme in the translation: “(which was simply dependent on my need to 
reach as clean and precise a rendering as possible)” (xxi). He quickly passes on to 
the proposed technique for reproducing the “prosodic intuition” of the VCV 
termini, which includes the use of “pure rhymes, pararhyme, assonances, 
alliterations, and consonances. . . .” Mandelbaum’s solicitude for the obscure 
poetic qualities of the VCV termini, when contrasted with his casual parenthetic 
dismissal of Dante’s terza rima, strikes one as paradoxical at the very least. But 
this is not all. A nineteen line parenthetical paragraph is introduced to 
extrapolate from these findings yet another principle of Dante translation: “In 
VCV, it is the first element that is stressed. This should lead, ideally, to 
heightened awareness of the poetic weight of all elements, tonic or not. And the 
ideal terminus for that ideal awareness would be the lexical independence of those 
two non-tonic elements, the terminal consonant and vowel. Our ideal fable finds 
its incarnation when Dante, in the middle of the Purgatorio, enjambs on the 
definite article ‘la,’ the first of his three such enjambments on definite articles. 
English will wait almost half-a-millennium for Blake to enjamb on ‘the’ — and 
longer for Wallace Stevens’ final ‘the the’ in ‘The Man on the Dump.’)” (xxi- 
xxii). Mandelbaum’s theoretical discussions in this last case, as before in his 
treatment of the regularity of Dante’s verse and the astounding intuition of VCV 
termini, justify a stylistic feature which characterizes not the original but rather 
his own translation. Here the excursus rationalizes the extremely free use of 
enjambment throughout the translation. Occasional rhymes and the iambic 
regularity of Mandelbaum’s line are preventively accounted for in the 
Introduction’s discussion of Dante’s putative poetics. Despite its intention to 
illuminate the nature of Dante’s verse, the discussion is most valuable as an 
explanation for the three most characterizing features of the translation. With 
regard to perhaps the three most important formal aspects of the original, the 
Mandelbaum translation reverses the poetic mode of intention. The rigorous 
rhyme scheme of terza rima is re-presented parodically by the happenstance of 
occasional rhymes, and the variously accented Dantesque hendecasyllable 


160 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


becomes the heavily regularized iambic pentameter of the translation. Finally, 
the substantial integrity of Dante’s line and the tercets themselves is broken 
down by Mandelbaum’s often arbitrary and inexpressive enjambments.”/ 

Charles S. Ross suggested the essentially hermeneutic inspiration behind 
the Mandelbaum translation when he observed that “Mandelbaum’s Dante 
brilliantly fills a need for a translation that combines the precision of 
Singleton’s prose monument with the excitement that only fine verse can 
provide” (62). Herein lies perhaps the key to the success of the Mandelbaum 
translation. Its privileging of the hermeneutic Dante at the expense of Dante’s 
poetics is in line with the current dominance of the Dante of the academy.”® 
Poetic virtues are icing on the cake, or, as Longfellow would have said, “mere 
trimming, the floral border on the hedge.” Dante’s poetics are systematically 
elided and replaced by the translator’s own poetics which are employed in 
dressing up in poetic garb the prose meaning of the original. This is the logical 
extension of the naturalizing ideology of blank verse translation of the 
Commedia in a hermeneutic age. Mandelbaum’s “poetic” translation confirms 
our sense that Dante’s poetry is largely absent from the general currents of 
contemporary poetic sensibility. In contrast to the “poetic” precedents of Cary’s 
Romantic Dante and the modernist Dante of Binyon, Mandelbaum’s position is 
closer, also in its relationship to the Academy, to that of the literalist 
Longfellow. 

On the one hand one wonders in conclusion, as did Carne-Ross in his review 
of Mandelbaum’s Dante, whether or not poetic translation of the entire 
Commedia today is still advisable or even possible.”? On the other, the framing 
paradox of this investigation re-emerges, for one can nevertheless be certain that 
translations of the Commedia will continue to be produced. The poem’s 
untranslatability seems to guarantee its apparently infinite translatability in 
historical terms. How can the poem’s ultimate untranslatability be the condition 
of its infinite translatability? 

One might begin to respond by looking further into the nature of Dante’s 


27 Came-Ross criticized the Mandelbaum version for its occasional thyme: “A good deal of 
thyme and off-rhyme does in fact crop up in Mandelbaum’s pages for no obvious reason.” In his 
view, Mandelbaum’s iambic pentameter “is at the furthest remove from Dante’s variously 
accented, often densely packed hendecasyllable.” Finally, he criticizes Mandelbaum’s handling 
of enjambment: “There is a good deal of enjambment in Mandelbaum’s translation, much of it as 
unhappy as this. One would have supposed that by the time he came to the Paradiso, with the 
9896 lines of the Aeneid and the 9475 of the Inferno and Purgatorio to practice on, he would 
have picked up more of the verse maker’s basic skills and would not have been content with this 
sort of thing” (10). 

28 See authoritative positive reviews of the translation by Ahern (“Thunderbolts into 
English”), Anderson, and Cecchetti. On the negative side, see Freccero’s review. 

29 “Though doubtless a poem for all time, it is of its age and culture to a degree that Homer and 
Shakespeare are not, and may be lodged too firmly in its age and culture to be brought over into 
ours without being knocked out of shape” (9). 








Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 161 


legame musaico itself, for the extent to which the poem’s mode of meaning is 
constitutive of and inseparable from its meaning appears so great as to 
effectively approximate and create the illusion of “true language.” In other words, 
the internal expressive coherence of the language of the Commedia, the rigorous 
bonding of the poem’s intentio to its mode of intention, is so strict as to create 
the illusion of true language. This is finally the specific significance manifested 
in the Commedia’s ultimate untranslatability: the poem claims to be the 
language of divinely inspired prophesy, of that language where, according to 
Benjamin, “meaning has ceased to be the watershed for the flow of language and 
the flow of revelation” (82). There is an opacity, a literal finality about this kind 
of writing which ultimately defies translation at the same time that it requires it. 
Dante’s poetics were designed in imitation of God’s writing. Consistent with his 
claim that the poem was an extension of Holy Writ, the poem’s ultimate 
untranslatability is the condition of its infinite translatability in historical terms. 
As Benjamin wrote: “Where a text is identical with truth or dogma, where it is 
supposed to be ‘the true language’ in all its literalness and without the mediation 
of meaning, this text is unconditionally translatable. In such case translations are 
called for because of the plurality of languages” (82). 


The University of Notre Dame 


Works Cited 


Ahem, John. “Reading Dante.” American Poetry Review 9.3 (1980): 12-17. 
. “Thunderbolts into English.” New York Times Book Review. 21 April 
1985: 12-13. 
. “L’ Aquila tra gli indiani: le traduzioni americane di Dante.” In Letture 
classensi 18. Ed. Anthony Oldcorn. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 1989. 211-34. 
Alighieri, Dante. Opere minori. [Convivio] Vol. 1, part 2. Ed Cesare Vasoli and 
Domenico De Robertis. Milano: Ricciardi, 1988. 
. La divina commedia: Inferno Purgatorio Paradiso. Tr. J. A. Carlyle, T. Okey 

and Ph. Wicksteed. London: Dent, 1899-1901. 

Anderson, David. “‘Mandelbaum and the Modernist Dante.” In Studies in Medievalism. 
Ed. Kathleen Verduin. 2.3 (Summer 1983): 87-96. 

Auerbach, Erich. “Francesco d’ Assisi nella Commedia.” In Studi su Dante. Milano: 
Feltrinelli, 1963. 221-35. 

Baranski, Zygmunt G. “‘Significar per verba’: Notes on Dante and plurilingualism.” 
The Italianist 6 (1986): 5-18. 

Basnett-Mcguire, S. Translation Studies. London: Methuen, 1980. 

Benjamin, Walter. “The Task of the Translator: An Introduction to the Transaltion of 
Baudelaire’s Tableaux Parisiens.” In Illuminations. Ed. Hannah Arendt. Tr. Harry 
Zohn. New York: Schocken Books, 1969. 69-82. 





162 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


Bergin, Thomas Goddard. The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri. New York: 
Appleton-Century-Crofts Classics, 1955. 

. The Divine Comedy. New York: Grossman Publishers, 1969. 

. “Dante in Our Time.” Sewanee Review 5.84 (October 1976): 706-13. 
Bickersteth, Geoffrey Langdale. The Paradiso of Dante Alighieri. Cambridge: 

Cambridge UP, 1932. 

. The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri. Aberdeen: Aberdeen UP, 1955. 

. “On Translating Dante.” The Third Herford Memorial Lecture Delivered by 
G. L. Bickersteth before the Manchester Dante Society. Manchester: Sherratt & 
Hughes, 1934. 

. The Divine Comedy. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1965. 

Binyon, Laurence. Dante’s Inferno. London: Macmillan,1933. 

. Dante’s Purgatorio. London: Macmillan, 1938. 

. Dante's Paradiso. London: Macmillan,1943. 

. The Portable Dante. Ed. Paolo Milano. New York: Viking, 1947. 

Cambon, Glauco. Dante's Craft: Studies in Language and Style. Minneapolis: U of 
Minnesota P, 1969. 

Carne-Ross, D. S. “Translation and Transposition.” In The Craft and Context of 
Translation. Ed. William Arrowsmith and Roger Shattuck. Garden City: Anchor 
Books, 1964. 3-21. 

. “Giants in Dwarfs’ Jackets.” The New York Review of Books (20 December 
1984): 9-12. 

Cary, Henry Francis. The Vision: or, Hell, Purgatory and Paradise. London: Taylor 
and Hessey, 1814. 

Cecchetti, Giovanni. “L’/nferno e il Purgatorio di A. Mandelbaum.” Forum Italicum 
16.3 (1982): 268-75. 

. Review of Mark Musa’s Purgatory. Italian Quarterly 23.88 (1982): 104-9. 
Chiappelli, Fredi. // legame musaico. Roma: Edizioni di storia e letteratura, 1984. 
Ciardi, John. The Inferno. New Brunswick: Rutgers UP, 1954. 

. The Purgatorio. New York: New American Library, 1957. 

. The Paradiso. New York: New American Library, 1970. 

Cotter, James Finn. The Divine Comedy. New York: Amity House,1987. 

Cunningham, Gilbert F. The Divine Comedy in English: A Critical Bibliography 
(1782-1900.) New York: Barnes & Noble, 1967. 

De Man, Paul. “‘Conclusions’ Walter Benjamin’s ‘The Task of the Translator’ 
Messenger Lecture, Cornell University, March 4,1983.” In The Lesson of Paul de 
Man, Yale French Studies 69 (1985): 2546. 

De Sua, William J. Dante into English. Chapel Hill: The U of North Carolina P, 1964. 

Eliot, T. S. “Dante.” In Selected Essays. New York: Harcourt, Brace & World, 1950. 
199-237. 

. “Talk on Dante.” In Dante in America: The First Two Centuries. Ed. A. 
Bartlett Giamatti. Binghampton: Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies, 
1983. 219-27. 

Enciclopedia dantesca. Six vols. Roma: Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana fondata da 
Giovanni Treccani, 1970-1978. 

Fitzgerald, Robert. “Mirroring the Commedia: An Appreciation of Laurence Binyon’s 
Version.” In Dante in America: The First Two Centuries. Ed. A. Bartlett 




















Between Hermeneutics and Poetics: Translation of the Commedia 163 


Giamatti. Binghampton: Medieval and Renaissance Texts and Studies, 1983. 
390-410. (Originally in Paideuma 10 (Winter, 1981): 489-508. 

Freccero, John. “The California Dante.” Boston Review 8 (June 1983): 24-25. 

Friederich, Werner P. Dante’s Fame Abroad, 1350-1850. Roma: Edizioni di storia e 
letteratura, 1950. 

Fussel, Paul. Poetic Meter and Poetic Form. New York: Random House, 1965. 

Goethe. J. W., von. “Uebersetzungen.” In West-Ostlicher Divan. Frankfurt am Main: 
Insel-Verlag, 1972. 260-63. 

. From My Life: Poetry and Truth. Parts One to Three. Ed. T. P. Saine and 
Jeffrey Sammons. New York: Uhrkamp Publishers, 1987. 
Heaney, Seamus. Field Work. New York: Farrar, Straus, Giroux, 1979. 
. Station Island. New York: Farrar, Straus, Giroux, 1985. 

Jakobson, Roman. “On Linguistic Aspects of Translation.” In On Translation. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1959. 232-39. 

Kilmer, Nicholas. Dante’s Comedy: The Inferno. Boston: Brandon,1985. 

Lansing, Richard. Dante’s Il Convivio. New York: Garland, 1990. 

La Piana, Angelina. Dante’s American Pilgrimage. New Haven: Yale UP, 1948. 

Longfellow, Henry Wadsworth. The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri. Boston: 
Ticknor and Fields, 1867. 

Mandelbaum, Allen. The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1980, 1982, 1984. 

Mandelstam, Osip. “Conversations about Dante.” In Selected Essays. Tr. Sidney 
Monas. Austin: U of Texas P, 1977. 3-44. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. “The American Criticism of Charles Singleton.” Dante Studies 
114 (1986): 27-44. 

Musa, Mark. The Divine Comedy. New York: Penguin Books, 1984. (Inferno, 
Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1971.) 

Nemerov, Howard. “A Few Bricks from Babel.” In Poetry and Fiction: Essays. Rutgers 
UP: New Brunswick, 1963. (Originally in The Sewanee Review 62.4 (Autumn 
1954): 357-65. 

Pound, Ezra. “Hell.” In Literary Essays of Ezra Pound. Ed. and introd. T.S. Eliot. New 
York: New Directions, 1968. 201-13. (Originally, London, 1954.) 

. The Letters of Ezra Pound, 1907-1941. Ed. D. D. Paige. New York, 1954. 
. The Translations of Ezra Pound. Ed. Hugh Kenner. London: Faber and Faber, 
1953. 

Potter, Joy Hambuechen. “Glauco Cambon.” Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante 
Research and Interpretation 6 (Spring1990): 123-39. 

Princeton Encyclopedia of Poetry and Poetics. Ed. Alex Preminger. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1974. 

Quinlan, Kieran. “Forsaking the Norse Muthologies: Seamus Heaney’s Conversion to 
Dante.” Studies in Medievalism 3 (Summer 1983):19-28. 

Ross, Charles S. “Mandelbaum’s Dante: Contemporary Prosody.” /talian Qaurterly 
27.103 (1986): 59-69. 

Ryan, Christopher. Dante: The Banquet. Stanford French and Italian Studies 61. 
Saratoga: Amna Libri,1989. 

Sayers, Dorothy Leigh. The Comedy of Dante Alighieri. Harmondsworth: Penguin, 
1949, 1955. (Paradiso, with Barbara Reynolds, 1962.) 


164 Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 


. “On Translating the Divina Commedia.” In The Poetry of Search and the 
Poetry of Statement. London: Gollancz, 1963. 91-125. 
Shapiro, Karl. To Abolish Children and Other Essays. Chicago: Quadrangle Books, 
1968. 201-2. 
Sinclair, John Dickson. The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri. London: John Lane, 
1939, 1939, 1946. 
Singleton, Charles, S. The Divine Comedy of Dante Alighieri. Princeton: Princeton 
UP, 1975. 
. Review of Dorothy Sayers’ translation. Speculum 25 (1950): 394-95. 
Sisson, C. H. The Divine Comedy: A New Version. Regnery Gateway, 1981. 
Steiner, George. After Babel: Aspects of Language and Translation. Oxford: Oxford 
UP, 1975. 
. “Dante Now: The Gossip of Eternity (1976)” In On Difficulty and Other 
Essays. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1980 (1978). 164-85. 
Valesio, Paolo. “The Virtues of Traducement: Sketch of a Theory of Translation” 
Semiotica 18:1 (1976): 1-96. 
Williams, William Carlos. “America, Whitman and the Art of Poetry.” In Poetry 
Journal VIII (November 1917): 27-31. 
Wlassics, Tibor. “Endpaper.” Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and 
Interpretation. Ed. Tibor Wlassics. 4 (1989): 110-12. 
. Dante Alighieri. Inferno: English Verse Translation. Charlottesville, 
Virginia: InPrint, Inc., 1990. 













tas: A Ue 9 ero EMP AES A eo 
ts noon 4 — He de 


Ax Oot 7 dint a - wir “24 , F 
de’ if iy) hwy ‘at A - “ai 


iecia/aedoiien Teves) A 


























a ee eT hii hat ale biden. ab 
er tasthicigy Vanbivs uf ty Medusa Hf 
mi & yl vie he: a wih 7 Wr AO 


a : 90-). rs oh, at al inowton Lina ‘aeeol tity 
é pee als | au ith M ¥iO don. bo iulgen 
el ese 


G ie, sel gar cant ihe pais a: “eek vie Wena Ing 

thats olan Wl feeilingts 2es.cniese 
P Oneal wit tito wnauatceitduigereah Ty. 
10> gelbude Silipvonoem ater vinhnot u rely stat 


ao ot wai 
mea fe eit nyse, MPH teu ohh pur {? 1k 30%) ‘tye lag tein 
Ie Meith yaaa ett Ye dane Yo due eatin NE) rodent 
¥ mw det 
a 4 














Ribs rel Vitisyity sidiana 4 Hbing HO Tidgly onqer 
OLA 9 Certs: rovbons | —_ 
cone Shan ¢ yelvrn: seeds Ves fled PaYe 
oaglya ae ity Had sso (r i) totus hhh 
ure yin US tr rol or sgh aes ai 07 qn) ay 
AIO OM ng drteng meg ey ahguesd ET obi > MMyil otllyogariy 
RETA. OR0b ih & som — YO yiacisdneiyls Oech an polar dogs 
tv Cone? Neroriieyee \ylhbniare tea OF Oia! town ath od paniatsr 2 (Ohismoeerd), 
asl | veereter ig SnIhalioe yy overwork ylsny eee us ywridiabepry bade 


the beers trons aad Wi th soa yt) Ie cuny iy veut sd to 
Peopreyn, Lgmen ty. “Paeliive 












Pag 
SBA Ui ‘ 

bare, Jatt; LP NERAS 9 totbutt sod quntgoan int 
> Paratizn. oi, qit | at 


PACE haan wat re! ih Nyy 9 Bayer Ter ho tuts SR Ag A 
DALYES). STRGA, | < Wet oo hier tial> Yo UU  AQCEE (faery 
USHRUD BRAK “wie eetihce Citakel aap tu! saahesin Magee’) wifqote lO hve 





fed oa oe rien arent 1 i hoitanthra Me act 
wan, Pairicin’ "Por vequcr » cemead arene nt 
Te Aa hour nite wh , ' oe veesme tices eke iad 


Lt teal taste ait] naltann’) bes WON dy Yor A” angie 2 amt] | 
eres) byt mushomA by. enyste AY ({O0 COTO 22 wood “YYrel-tvery missidu? bedalsy 


i etthi AN 4) Hag, Seatels S cnitedl bee yoilenl ai avottsteses 
Sait Pia taht vi attain 0 ehiorecatmal beste 


Past ol gins 


Uist edi inorod Scent, A” balboa hl 1 beelidd sakAT Tre} grtrg®) 6 aon 


1 Easinyodt eat Eka abana 71s A ORO Ad latte "ansdica sua Bese Vocah 
Boocgntin,” Dal 43 ALzUd WHA, TF of Veweavlearia. (Lg 1 Obege? i Prep 


‘Regeompane ating eestrege-ett? day \onoinhnpmaste wy tarraniie lenSatingab eh etioens maven Io 
‘inh ad fa ar or errr ea aihy Write hh) tow ite) jromtledd ei) eevttiz aki 


¢ 


Pee 


Marina R. de Fazio 


Dante Studies 
A Decade of American Dissertations (1980-1989) 


In continuation of previously published surveys,! this bibliography presents an 
overview of American doctoral dissertations? that is intended for the use of Dante 
students and scholars. In an attempt to be as complete as possible, I have 
included not only monographic studies on Dante but also dissertations that are 
not exclusively, and at times not even primarily, about Dante, but are 
nonetheless significant for Dante studies. 

To distinguish dissertations devoted entirely to Dante from those in which 
Dante plays a secondary role, monographic studies constitute a group by 
themselves (section 1) with no further subdivision, given their relatively small 
number (20 entries out of 136). With regard to the remaining 116 dissertations, 
some significant patterns revealed distinct areas of interest in Dante studies and 
suggested another method of organization. 

The system of cross-referencing I have used facilitates consultation. When a 
dissertation fits in more than one section, I have cited it in full only once, 
referring to it elsewhere by giving the author's name and the section number 
where the full citation appears. Each section is numbered, and the entries within 
each section are listed alphabetically by the author’s name. When the 
dissertation’s relation to the study of Dante is not readily apparent from the title, 
brief explanatory notes include, whenever specified in the abstract, the indication 
of the chapter or part of the dissertation relevant to Dante studies. 


1. Monographic Studies on Dante 


Adams, Shirley. “The Role of Sense Perception in the Divine Comedy.” DAI 44 
(1983): 3379A. U. of California, San Diego. 

Baglivi, Giuseppe “Dall’eterno al tempo. Studio dantesco.” DAI 43 (1982): 2989A 
Indiana U. (An interpretation of the figure of the Veltro.) 


1 Dino S. Cervigni, “A Survey of American and Canadian Dissertations in Italian and Italian- 
Related Subjects (1971-1977),” Italica 55 (1978): 36-67; “A Survey of American and Canadian 
Dissertations in Italian and Italian-Related Subjects (1978-1982),” IJtalica 60 (1983): 298-314; 
Remigio Pane, “Studi danteschi: A Bibliography of Doctoral Dissertations 1896-1976,” La 
fusta 2 (Spring 1977): 104-26; Robert J. Rodini, “A Survey of Doctoral Studies in Italian in the 
United States and Canada,” /talica 46 (1969): 89-101; “Dissertations in Progress,” Italica 48 
(1971): 542-49. 

2 T have consulted the Dissertation Abstract International on disk under Dante’s name and under 
the titles (in Italian, Latin and English) of all his works. 








Dante Studies: A Decade of American Dissertations 167 


Burns, Alexandra. “The Narrative Sources of Lyricism in the Divine Comedy.” DAI 42 
(1981): 725A. New York U. 

Carugati, Giuliana. “Dalla menzogna al silenzio. Il viaggio ‘mistico’ della scrittura 
dantesca nella Divina commedia."DAI 49 (1988): 2212A. City U. of New York. 

Corsi, Sergio “Il ‘modus digressivus’ nella Divina commedia.” DAI 42 (1981): 
1140A. U. of Chicago. 

Fiatarone, James J. “From ‘selva oscura’ to ‘divina foresta’: Liturgical Song as Path 
to Paradise in Dante’s Commedia.” DAI 48 (1986): 1199A. U. of California, 
Berkeley. 

Fine, Thomas R. “Fernandez de Villegas’s Translation and Commentary on Dante’s 
Inferno.” DAI 42 (1981): 727A. The U. of Michigan. 

Gleason, Francesca R. “‘A Translation of Jacopo Mazzoni’s Discorso in difesa della 
Divina Commedia del divino poeta Dante.” DAI 49 (1988): 1818A. U. of South 
Carolina. 

Harrison, Robert P “A Phenomenology of the Vita nuova.” DAI 45 (1984): 2869A. 
Cornell U. 

Holekamp, Elizabeth L. “Dante into French: the Earliest Complete Translation of the 
Divine Comedy.” DAI 46 (1985): 1642A. Indiana U. 

Iozzo, Anthony. “‘Human and Divine Justice in Dante.” DAI 42 (1981): 4023A. U. of 
Toronto. 

Matt, Bernard F. “‘Quando Amor mi spira’: Virtue in Dante’s Purgatorio.” DAI 41 
(1980): 3100A. Emory U. 

McMahon, Robert. ‘“‘Narcissus and the Problem of Interpretation: Dante’s Theory of 
Reading in the Commedia.” DAI 47 (1986): 2153A. U. of California, Santa Cruz. 

Migiel, Marilyn. “The Signs of Power in Dante’s Theology: Purgatorio X-XXVII.” 
DAI 42 (1981): 5141A. Yale U. 

Parker, Deborah W “Cantos of Exile: Tradition and Exegesis.” DAI 46 (1985): 
1963A. Harvard U. (An analysis of Dante’s Italian commentators with regard to 
the interpretation of Inf. VI, X, XV and Par. XVII.) 

Pietropaolo, Domenico. “Italian Dante Studies in the Age of Vico.” DAI 42 (1980): 
1175A. U. of Toronto. 

Schnapp, Jeffrey T. “The Transfiguration of History at the Center of Dante’s 
Paradise.” DAI 45 (1984): 178A. Stanford U. 

Vapi, Camille. “Dante’s Early Lyric Poetry and Provengal Precedents.” DAI 49 
(1988): 3719A. Boston College. 

Yowell, Donna L. “Human Speech and Bestial Silence: De vulgari eloquentia and 
Inferno XXXI-XXXIV.” DAI 48 (1987): 2334A. U. of California, Berkeley. 

Zupan, Patricia J. “’Per seguir virtute e canoscenza’: The Significance of Ulysses’ 
Final Journey.” DAI 44 (1983): 749A. Indiana U. 


2. Dante’s Culture and Sources 


Armao, Linda T. “The Influence of Ovidian Poetics on Dante, Petrarch and 
Boccaccio.” DAI 47 (1986): 3768A. U. of Pennsylvania. (In chapter 4 Armao 
argues that Dante rejected Ovidian poetics because “his poetic persona would not 
permit a formal bravura emptied of higher import.’’) 


168 Marina R. de Fazio 


Barrett, Tracy T. “‘Rogue,’ ‘Scamp’: The Elusive Persona of Cecco Angiolieri.” DAI 
50 (1988): 960A. U. of California, Berkeley. (The author discusses Angiolieri’s 
mockery of Dante.) 

Beal, Rebecca S. “The Medieval Tradition of the libri Salomonis in Dante’s 
Commedia and Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde.” DAI 48 (1982): 2621A. The U. 
of Texas at Austin. (Beal contends that the libri Salomonis tradition “facilitates 
an understanding of the formal structure of the Commedia and provides insight 
into the poet’s use of allegory. She also discusses Chaucer’s allusions to the 
Commedia.) 

Ceder, Vernon L. “The Latin Pastoral Eclogue after Virgil.” DAI 45 (1984): 2515A. 
The U. of Wisconsin - Madison. (The author examines how Dante’s, Petrarch’s 
and Boccaccio’s use of the pastoral eclogue contributed to mediate that poetic 
form from the Latin poets of Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages to the later 
pastoral tradition.) 

Contrada, Deborah L. “A Critical Edition of the Works of Bondie Dietaiuti, Pacino 
Angiulieri and Ser Pace, Florentine Poets of the Duecento.” DAI 46 (1985): 
2311A. Harvard U. (In discussing Bondie’s exchange of poetry with Brunetto 
Latini, Contrada touches upon Dante’s consignment of Brunetto to Hell.) 

Kallendorf, Craig W. “Early Humanistic Moral Criticism of Virgil’s Aeneid in Italy 
and Great Britain.” DAI 43 (1982): 2658A. U. of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
(The author discusses Landino’s analysis of Dante’s use of Virgil.) 


See also 4.1. MacDonald; 4.2. D’Angelo; 7.4. Semark. 


3. Art and Technique 
3.1. The Rhetorical Process 


Arbuckle, Nan. “Categories of the Self-Conscious Narrator in Wolfram, Dante, and 
Chaucer.” DAI 45 (1984): 2519A. The U. of Oklahoma. 

Corman, Catherine T “‘Whereas a man may have noon audience, noght helpeth it to 
tellen his sentence’: Rhetorical Process in Chaucer’s Poetry.” DAI 47 (1985): 
173A. U. of California, Los Angeles. (Parallels are drawn with Dante’s 
Commedia with regard to the exploitation of rhetorical strategies.) 

Feinstein, William I. “Style, Narrative Voice, and Critical Distance: the Triumph of 
Ariosto’s Renaissance Irony.” DAI 44 (1982): 183A. U. of California, Berkeley. 
(In the last two chapters, the author discusses Ariosto’s critical distance from 
Dante, by comparing the use of the narrator voice and the rhetoric of moral 
instruction in both authors.) 

Haddad, Miranda S. “The Writer as Reader: A Study of Intertextual Influence in the 
Works of Dante, Ariosto and Spenser.” DAI 48 (1987): 2622A. Yale U. 
(Chapters 1 and 2 draw parallels between Dante and Ariosto concerning their use 
of epic devices and the issue of narrative presence.) 

Housley, Robyn W. “The Engaging Narrator: Gaskell, Stowe, Eliot and ‘You.”” DAT 
43 (1982): 1152A. Stanford U. (Dante’s direct addresses to the reader are 
mentioned in the abstract as prototypes of this rhetorical strategy in Western 








Dante Studies: A Decade of American Dissertations 169 


literature.) 

Humphrey, George E. “Metamorphoses of Desire: Eden and the Boundaries of 
Literature.” DAI 48 (1987): 1197A. Boston U. (Part 2 examines Dante’s reunion 
with Beatrice in Purg. XX VII-XXXIII with regard to rhetorical and narratological 
strategies.) 


3.2. The Interpolated Sonnet 


Krummrich, Philip E. “The Interpolated Sonnet in Western Literature.” DAI 41 
(1980): 4705A. U. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. (The dissertation includes 
an analysis of the sonnets in the Vita nuova.) 

McCord, Clare F. “‘Various Style’: Milton’s Interpolated Sonnets and Their 
Tradition.” DAI 46 (1985): 3727A. Case Western Reserve U. (Chapter 1 
examines the use of the interpolated sonnet by Dante, Sidney, Shakespeare and 
Herbert.) 

Psaki, Francies R. “The Medieval Lyric-Narrative Hybrid: Formal Play and Narratorial 
Subjectivity.” DAI 50 (1989): 682A. Cornell U. (Chapter 8 examines Dante’s 
work.) 


3.3. Epic 


Herron, Carol O. “The Vacillating Epic: The Dialectic of Opposing World Views in 
the Expansion of the Epic Literary Genre.” DAI 46 (1985): 1271A. U. of 
Pennsylvania. (Dante’s name does not appear in the abstract, but it appears as 
one of the DAI headings, together with Homer’s and Milton’s, next to the 
dissertation’s title.) 

Muro, Alex J. “High Comedy in Nineteenth-Century Fiction: A Study of George 
Meredith’s The Amazing Marriage and the Tradition of Comic Epics from Homer 
to Joyce.” DAI 43 (1982): 811A. Duke U. (The author discusses the Commedia 
within the context of the comic epic tradition.) 

Nimis, Stephen A. “The Epic Simile from Homer to Milton.” DAI 42 (1981): 4442A. 
U. of Minnesota. (Chapter 4 discusses “typology as a model for signification 
which leads to silence and the exchange of simile as a model which is unable to 
produce divine meaning” in the Commedia.) 

Watson, Robert A. “A Windmill under a Walnut Sheil: Chaucer’s House of Fame on 
the Illusionist Rhetoric of Systems.” DAI 49 (1988): 503A. Stanford U. (The 
author considers Chaucer’s work a parody of the “cosmological epic”; the poet 
mimics works of several predecessors, including Dante.) 


3.4. Autobiography or the Poetics of Conversion 


Henderson, Mary K. “Network of Resemblances: Fictional Technique in Caroline 
Gordon’s The Malefactors.” DAI 44 (1983): 2472A. U. of Dallas. (Henderson 
discusses the influence of Dante’s Commedia — the concept of Christian comedy 
and the elevation of autobiographical material to a symbolic level — on 
Gordon’s work.) 


170 Marina R. de Fazio 


Lynch, Kathleen A. “The Temple as Autobiography: Herbert’s ‘Wreathed Garland of 
Praise.’” DAI 43 (1982): 1555A. U. of Pittsburgh. (Chapter 2 is a history of 
autobiography with a survey of texts, which includes the Commedia.) 

Peters, Gerald N. “The Poetics of Conversion: Salvation and Self-Justification in the 
Modern Autobiographical Novel.” DAI 47 (1986): 3421A. U. of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign. (The author mentions the Vita nuova in his discussion of 
confessional writings in Western literature.) 

Rosenberg, John F “Los peregrinos sin destino: The Confessional Narrative in 
Spain.” DAI 46 (1985): 1963A. Cornell U. (The author touches upon Augustine, 
Dante and Petrarch when discussing the tradition of autobiographical writing.) 

Smurhwaite, John S. “The Shape of Time: Structure and Conversion in the Works of 
Augustine, Dante and Petrarch.” DAI 47 (1986): 3032A. Cornell U. (Chapter 2 
considers the DC’s contribution to the development of the Augustian tradition.) 


3.5. Miscellanea 


Baig, Bonnie P. “Vision and Visualization: Optics and Light Metaphysics in the 
Imagery and Poetic Form of Twelfth and Thirteenth Century Secular Allegory, 
with Special Attention to the Roman de la rose.” DAI 43 (1982): 2660A. U. of 
California, Berkeley. (Chapter 3 includes a discussion on Dante’s Par.) 

Bullock-Kimball, Beatrice S. “The European Heritage of Rose Symbolism and Rose 
Metaphors in View of Rilke’s Epitaph Rose.” DAI 47 (1986): 2601A. U. of 
California, San Diego. (Chapter 4 includes a discussion on Dante’s Celestial 
Rose.) 

Doolittle, Nancy J. “Landscape and Spatial Perspectives in Dante, Ariosto, and 
Milton.” DAI 43 (1983): 3901A. State U. of New York at Binghamton. 

Hunt, Marvin W. “The Semiology of Character in Sidney’s Fiction.” DAI 48 (1986): 
654A. The U. of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. (Chapter 2 contrasts Dante’s Vita 
nuova and Astrophil and Stella as “poetic semiologies” and discusses the 
function of metaphor in these works.) 

McKernan, John J. “An Investigation of the Epistolary Nature of Shakespeare’s 
Sonnets 1-126.” DAI 41 (1980): 2125A. Boston U. Graduate School. (A 
comparison is made with Dante’s letters in verse.) 

Minahen, Charles D. “Hermeneutics of the Vortex-Structure in Symbolist Aesthetics: 
Phenomenology of a Symbol as Symbol.” DAI 44 (1983): 2760A. Stanford U. 
(Chapter 3 treats the spiro-vertical structure of Dante’s conception of the 
afterlife.) 

Sternheim, Amold E. “Time and Narrative Construction.” DAI 41 (1980): 4027A. 
Columbia U. (The author examines /nf. IX.) 

Vance, Thomas H. “Dante and Shelley.” DAI 48 (1985): 2332A. Yale U. (A 
comparative study which focuses on the use of imagery and symbols.) 

Wright, Robert E. “Art and the Incarnate Word: Medieval Christologies and the 
Problem of Literary Inexpressibility.” DAI 47 (1986): 3423A. Duke U. (Wright 
treats the problem of inexpressibility as “a serious intellectual and artistic issue, 
not simply a rhetorical topos.” Within this framework, and focusing also on the 
use of imagery, he analyzes various literary works including Dante’s Commedia.) 





Dante Studies: A Decade of American Dissertations hi 


See also 2. Armao. 


4. Themes 
4.1. The Underworld 


Bryce-Almendral, Paul F. “The Crossroads of the Underworld and Intertextual 
Practices: Carnival, Discursive Formations, and the Archeology of Domination 
in Nineteenth-Century Literature.” DAI 48 (1987): 385A. The U. of Michigan. 
(The author examines the relation between modernist texts and the classical 
tradition of Homer, Virgil, and Dante.) 

MacDonald, Ronald R. “The Burial-Places of Memory: Epic Underworlds in Virgil, 
Dante, and Milton.” DAI 44 (1983): 2755A. Yale U. 


See also 6.2. Calloway. 
4.2. The Representation of Women 


D’Angelo, Rosina. “Il poemetto de L’ intelligenza.” DAI 48 (1987): 2352A. Rutgers 
U. (D’ Angelo considers how Madonna Intelligenza prefigures Dante’s Beatrice in 
the Convivio and the Commedia.) 

Garnett, Mary A. “‘Pseudonym and Identity: The Literary and Psychological Itinerary 
of Marie d’Angoult.” DAI 41 (1980): 2139A. The U. of Wisconsin - Madison. 
(The author discusses the Commedia as one of the works that has molded Marie 
d’ Angoult’s vision of woman as mediator between God and man.) 

Paxton, Nancy L. “Evolution and the Mother in the Novels of George Eliot.” DAI 43 
(1982): 3326A. Rutgers U. (Part 3 describes Eliot’s use of motifs from some 
authors, including Dante.) 

Robinson, Michele. “Figuring out Women: Chaucer’s Reading of the Antifeminist 
Tradition.” DAI 49 (1988): 1797A. The Johns Hopkins U. (In chapter 2 
Robinson shows how “Chaucer distinguishes himself from Dante’s allegorical 
stance,” with regard to the literary representation of women.) 

Saliskas, Joan M. ““Women as Redemptive Figures in Seventeenth-Century British 
Literature.” DAI 44 (1983): 1804A. U. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 
(Chapter 3 focuses on the relation between Donne’s verse epistles and 
Anniversaries and Dante’s Vita nuova.) 


See also 6.2. Helmeci. 
4.3. Miscellanea 


De Rachewiltz, Siegfried W. “De Sirenibus: An Inquiry into Syrens from Homer to 
Shakespeare.” DAI 44 (1983): 1782A. Harvard U. (Chapter 4 analyzes the Siren 
in Purg. XIX.) 

Giucci, Guillermo. “The Conquest of America: from the Marvelous to the Exotic.” DAI 
48 (1987): 2886A. Stanford U. (Chapter 1 considers the implications of Dante’s 


172 Marina R. de Fazio 


condemnation of Ulysses in /nf. XXVI in relation to the discovery of America.) 

Lewis, Linda M. “Titanic Rebellion: the Promethean Iconography of Milton, Blake 
and Shelley.” DAI 48 (1987): 2067A. The U. of Nebraska. (Chapter 2 examines 
the Promethean/Titan temperament in the Commedia: “Dante opposes proud 
Titanism against church or state, but allows rebellion for the individual 
Promethean.” 

O’Neill, Kevin C. “The Voyage from Dante to Beckett.” DAI 46 (1985): 2709A. U. of 
California, Berkeley. (In the dissertation, the trilogy of Beckett is shown to be a 
continuation of the voyage tradition through an analysis of Dante’s Commedia 
and Diderot’s Jacques le fataliste.) 

Ralston, Michael E. “A Typology of Guides in Medieval Literature.” DAI 45 (1984): 
1111A. Auburn U. (Chapter 2 examines Dante’s Virgil in the Commedia.) 


See also 4.2. Garnett, Paxton, Saliskas; 6.1. Clarke, O’Shea Thomson, Vitto; 6.1.1. 
Chmaitelli, Fish, Shutt, Southmayd; 6.2.1. Richards, Sicari; 6.4. Pollak. 


5. The Influence of Dante in Italy 
5.1. Medieval Literature 


Boli, Todd W. “The Reconciliation of Popular and Learned in Boccaccio’s 
Decameron.” DAI 42 (1981): 3987A. Columbia U. (Chapter 3 deals with Dante’s 
DVE and Letter to Can Grande.) 

Boucher, Holly W. “The Romance of the Name: The Ambiguity of Religious and 
Sexual Language in the Decameron and in the Canterbury Tales.” DAI 48 (1987): 
921A. Brown U. (The author contrasts Boccaccio’s and Chaucer’s works, which 
are “pilgrimages in quest of the meaning of language,” to Dante’s “quest for the 
ultimate meaning.”) 

Cruz, Anne J “Imitacién y transformacién: la trayectoria del petrarquismo en la poesia 
de Juan Boscan y Garcilaso de la Vega.” DAI 43 (1982): 1163A. Stanford U. 
(Cruz discusses Freccero’s approach to Petrarchan poetics and the critic’s 
thematic distinction between Petrarch and Dante.) 

Grossvogel, Steven M. “Disclosure and Concealment: A Thematic Interpretation of 
Giovanni Boccaccio’s Filocolo.” DAI 46 (1985): 148A. Cornell U. (Dante’s 
influence on the work is considered.) 

MacKinnon, Patricia L. “The Analogy of the Body Politic in St. Augustine, Dante, 
Petrarch, and Ariosto.” DAI 50 (1988): 438A. U. of California, Santa Cruz. 
(Chapter 3 examines Petrarch’s work within the tradition of body politic 
imagery through the works of several authors among whom Dante.) 

Stillinger, Thomas C. “Authorized Song: Lyric Poetry and the Medieval Book.” DAI 
48 (1988): 3108A. Comell U. (The dissertation considers Dante’s Vita nuova, 
Boccaccio’s Filostrato and Chaucer’s Troilus and Criseyde with regard to the 
problem of constructing a book from lyrics. Chapter 2 is on the Vita nuova, and 
chapter 3 on Dante’s influence on Boccaccio.) 








Dante Studies: A Decade of American Dissertations 173 
5.2. Renaissance Literature 


Ascoli, Albert R. “Cassandra’s Veil: Crisis and Evasion in the Orlando furioso.” DAI 
44 (1983): 2782A. Cornell U. (The author shows how the Furioso parodies the 
efforts of poets from Virgil to Dante to understand and master the self and 
history.) 

Caro, Paola L. “Narrator and Narrative: The Transformation of the Narrative Poem in 
the Italian Renaissance.” DAI 43 (1982): 2690A. U. of California, Berkeley. (In 
chapter 4 the author discusses the authorship of the tenzone Dante-Forese.) 

Manca, Francesco. “A Critical Edition of Vittoria (1605), a Tragedy by Pomponio 
Torelli. With an Introduction on the Italian Tragedy of the Late Sixteenth- 
Century.” DAI 41 (1980): 3131A. U. of California, Berkeley. (In Part 1 the 
author discusses among other topics Dante’s influence on Torelli.) 

Paden, Joe M. “A Barrel Maker’s Caprices: A New Translation, Notes, and 
Introduction of Giovan Battista Gelli’s I capricci del bottaio.” DAI 47 (1985): 
545A. Indiana U. (Paden discusses Dantean influences on Gelli’s work.) 

Sherberg, Michael. “Ariosto’s Rinaldo: The Fall of Man and the Rise of Literature.” 
DAI 47 (1985): 3445A. U. of California, Los Angeles. (The author discusses how 
Ariosto relies on Dantean models in the travel sequences and how he parodies 
Dante because of Dante’s claims to unite textuality and morality.) 


See also 2. Kallendorf; 3.1. Doolittle, Feinstein, Haddad. 
5.3. Nineteenth Century Literature 


Michalczyk, Susan A. “Ugo Foscolo: Literary and Psychological Journey into Exile.” 
DAI 47 (1986): 2178A. Harvard U. (The author examines Foscolo’s essays on 
Dante and Petrarch.) 


5.4. Twentieth Century Literature 

Allen, Beverly C. “The Language of Beauty’s Apprentice: The Poetry of Andrea 
Zanzotto Before La belta.” DAI 44 (1983): 2483A. U. of California, Berkeley. 
(The dissertation discusses the presence in Zanzotto’s work of the influence of 
the great Italian poets, including Dante.) 

Cascaito, James A. “‘Lieto disonore’: the Poetry of Sandro Penna.” DAI 42 (1981): 
238A. Columbia U. (Chapter 4 discusses Penna’s affinities with his 
predecessors, including Dante.) 

Markey, Constance D. “The Role of the Narrator in Italo Calvino’s Fiction.” DAI 41 
(1980): 2631A. U. of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. (In chapter 2, the author 
analyzes II castello dei destini incrociati as a parody of the pilgrim’s salvific 
journey in the Commedia.) 

Peterson, Thomas E. “The Poetics and Poetry of Pier Paolo Pasolini.” DAI 47 (1986): 
2178A. Brown U. (Peterson examines the significance of the figure of Dante on 
Pasolini’s work.) 

Sillanpoa, Wallace P. “Cultural Theory and Literary Criticism in the Prison 
Notebooks of Antonio Gramsci.” DAI 41 (1981): 5122A. The U. of Connecticut. 
(Section 4 focuses on literary criticism in Gramsci’s work, including his 


174 Marina R. de Fazio 


analysis of Inf. X.) 

Welle, John P. “The Search for a Unyfying Code: Andrea Zanzotto’s II galateo in 
bosco.” DAI 44 (1983): 3062A. Indiana U. (Chapter 2 compares stylistic 
elements in Zanzotto’s work and in the DC.) 


6. The Influence of Dante Abroad 
6.1. English Literature 


Clarke, Joseph K. “The ‘Praeceptor Amoris’ in English Renaissance Lyric Poetry: 
One Aspect of the Poet’s Voice.” DAI 47 (1985): 187A. U. of North Texas. (The 
author traces the tradition of courlty love to England through Dante and 
Petrarch.) 

Cooksey, Thomas L. “Dante’s Victorians: The Use of Dante by Carlyle, Tennyson 
and Rossetti.” DAI 43 (1982): 3918A. U. of Oregon. 

Cortese, Romana. “George Eliot and Dante.” DAI 42 (1981): 3162A. U. of Wisconsin 
- Madison. 

Daigle, Marsha A. “Dante’s Divine Comedy and the Fiction of C. S. Lewis.” DAI 45 
(1984): 513A. U. of Michigan. 

Donovan, Gertrude M. “Dorothy L. Sayers’ Detective Fiction: Fable to Myth.” DAI 
42 (1981): 1157A. St. John’s U. (The author mentions the pilgrim’s journey in 
the Commedia as a model for Gaudy Night.) 

Kilgour, Margaret A. “From Communion to Cannibalism: An Anatomy of Metaphors 
of Incorporation.” DAI 47 (1986): 3028A. Yale U. (In Chapter 1 Kilgour 
examines the relation between metamorphosis and “incorporation” in the works 
of Ovid, Dante and Spenser; in chapter 2 she clarifies the differences between the 
latter two authors.) 

Knowles, Sebastian D. “A Purgatorial Flame: British Literature of the Second World 
War.” DAI 48 (1987): 2880A. Princeton U (Chapter 3 and 4 discuss the 
“deliberate reworkings of Dante’s Purgatorio in the war works of T. S. Eliot, J. 
R. R. Tolkien, C. S. Lewis and Charles Williams.”) 

Livingston, Arthur P. “Systematic Philosophy and Theology in an English Novelist: 
The Survival of the Franciscan Tradition in Charles Williams.” DAI 43 (1982): 
810A. Loyola U. of Chicago. (The author refers to Dante when discussing 
Williams within the context of the Franciscan tradition.) 

Lobner, Corinna del Greco. “James Joyce’s Italian Experience: Trovatore in Trieste.” 
DAI 42 (1981): 2122A. U. of Tulsa. (Lobner examines Joyce’s acquaitance with 
some Italian authors, including Dante.) 

Mayfield, Sandra J. “The Influence of the Art of Meditation on Sir Thomas Browne’s 
Imagination.” DAI 41 (1980): 1065A. The U. of Oklahoma. (In the discussion of 
Sir Thomas Browne’s belief in the common divine origin of poetry and religion, 
the author refers to Dante and Boccaccio.) 

Norris, Christine L. “Literary Allusion in the Tales of Isak Dinesen.” DAI 43 (1982): 
453A. U. of California, San Diego. (The author discusses literary allusions to 
Dante in the work of Dinesen.) 

O’Shea, Michael J. “James Joyce and Heraldry.” DAI 45 (1984): 3354A. U. of 





Dante Studies: A Decade of American Dissertations 175 


Delaware. (O’Shea mentions the works of several authors, including Dante’s, as 
literary antecedents for Joyce’s heraldry.) 

Reames, Steven A. “Charles Williams’ Images of the Incarnation.” DAI 46 (1985): 
1288A. Claremont Graduate School. (Reames refers to Dante as a major model for 
William’s conception of theology.) 

Rogal, Owen S. “Formal Necessities and Furious Temptations in John Ruskin’s 
Modern Painters.” DAI 47 (1985): 190A. Rutgers U. (Rogal analyzes Ruskin’s 
treatment of Dante.) 

Theoharis, Theoharis C. “The Unity of Ulysses.” DAI 44 (1983): 2479A. U. of 
California, Berkeley. (Chapter 3 examines the influence of the Commedia in 
Joyce’s work.) 

Thomson, John M. “‘God Looking on the Earth’: Milton and the Reward of True 
Fame.” DAI 44 (1983): 3699A. U. of Iowa. (The dissertation treats the concepts 
of perfect faith and true fame in the Commedia.) 

Vitto, Cindy L. “The Virtuous Pagan in Middle English Literature.” DAI 46 (1985): 
1937A. Rice U. (Vitto examines her subject in several works, including the 
Commedia.) 

Zweig, Robert M. “The Victorian Dante: Dante and Victorian Literary Criticism.” DAI 
45 (1984): 2538A. City U. of New York. 


See also 3.1. Housley; 3.2. McCord; 3.3. Muro; 3.4. Lynch; 3.5. Doolittle, Housley, 
Hunt, McKernan, Vance; 4.1. MacDonald; 4.2. Paxton, Saliskas; 4.3. Lewis; 
6.1.1. Payne; 6.2. Sicari; 7.3. Wihl; 7.4. Vandermey. 


6.1.1. Dante and Chaucer 


Bisceglia, Julie J. “Paradigms of Personality: Chaucer’s Troylus and Criseyde and the 
Traditions of Ovid and Dante.” DAI 41 (1980): 258A. U. of California, Los 
Angeles. 

Chmaitelli, Nancy A. “The Theme of Synagogue, Ecclesia, and the Whore of Babylon 
in the Visual Arts and in the Poetry of Dante and Chaucer: A Background Study 
for Chaucer’s Wife of Bath.” DAI 47 (1986): 1722A. Rice U. 

Conner, Edwin L. ““The Squire’s Tale’ and Its Teller: Medieval Tradition and Chaucer’s 
Artistry of Allusion.” DAI 47 (1985): 534A. Vanderbilt U. (In part 2, the author 
discusses the characters of Dido and Francesca da Rimini and Chaucer’s 
translation of lines from Inf. V.) 

Fish, Varda. “From ‘Benigne Love’ to the ‘Blynde and Wynged Sone’: Troilus and 
Criseyde as a Literary Critique of the Filostrato and the Tradition of Courtly Love 
Poetry.” DAI 42 (1981): 1628A. Cornell U. (The dissertation includes a 
treatment of echoes of Dante in Chaucer’s work.) 

Payne, Roberta L. “The Influence of Dante on Medieval English Dream Visions.” DAI 
46 (1985): 2688A. U. of Denver. (Payne treats at length Dante’s influence on 
Chaucer’s The House of Fame, The Parliament of Fowls and Troilus and 
Criseyde.) 

Schaber, Bennet J. “The Lettered Body: Chaucer in the Place of Analysis.” DAI 49 
(1988): 3359A. Brown U. (Chapter 2 discusses the relation of language and body 
in troubador lyrics, Dante’s theoretical writings and Chaucer’s House of Fame.) 


176 Marina R. de Fazio 


Shutt, Timothy B. “’Logos’ and ‘Physis’ — The Word in the World: Poetic Uses of 
the Stars during the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.” DAI 46 (1984): 1937A. 
U. of Virginia. (Shutt examines Dante’s and Chaucer’s common notion of the 
poetic skies that “are made to work in service of a variety of theological ends.”) 

Southmayd, David E. “Chaucer and the Medieval Conventions of Bird Imagery.” DAI 
41 (1980): 3596A. Mcgill U. (The author mentions Dante as a source for 
Chaucer’s exploitation of this theme.) 

Taylor, Karla T. “Chaucer Reads The Divine Comedy.” DAI 44 (1983): 1449A. 
Stanford U. 


See also 2. Beal; 3.3. Watson; 3.5. Arbuckle, Corman; 4.2. Robinson; 5. Boucher, 
Stillinger; 6.1. Vitto. 


6.2. American Literature 


Augustine, Jane. “The Mistery: H. D.’s Unpublished Moravian Novel Edited and 
Annotated. Towards a Study in the Sources of a Poet’s Religious Thinking.” DAI 
49 (1988): 2216A. City U. of New York. (Augustine argues that Dante’s Paradise 
had a major influence on the creation of the myth of history in H. D.’s novel.) 

Avallone, Charlene S. “Commanding Genius: Literary Source-Use in Melville’s 
Romances.” DAI 43 (1982): 1970A. State U. of New York at Binghamton. 
(Dante is mentioned among the several authors who influenced Melville’s 
romances.) 

Calloway, Catherine E. “The Vietnam War Novel: a Descent into Hell.” DAI 48 
(1987): 2626A. U. of South Florida. (Calloway considers Dante’s influence on 
Vietnam war writers.) 

Donahoo, Robert E. “(Comic Forms and Social Meanings in the Fiction of Flannery 
O’Connor.” DAI 49 (1988): 2219A. Duke U. (Donahoo believes that O’Connor’s 
fictions are grounded in the Christian comic form defined by Dante’s Commedia.) 

Helmeci, Hollis E. “Hawthorne’s Allusions and Ambiguous Characters in 
‘Rappacini’s Daughter’ and Consuming Greatness: The Boa and the Belly in 
Emerson’s Representative Men.” DAI 50 (1988): 443A. The U. of Toledo. 
(Helmeci discusses allusions to Dante’s Commedia and to the works of other 
authors in Hawthome’s short story and the role these allusions play in the 
representation of its main characters.) 

MacLeod, Glen G. “Aspects of Wallace Stevens.” DAI 42 (1981): 1150A. Princeton 
U. (in part 2 the author treats Dante’s influence on Stevens.) 

Wacker, Norman J. “Constructive Traditions: “The Cantos’ of Ezra Pound.” DAI 47 
(1986): 4392A. U. of Washington. (The author discusses Dante’s influence on 
Pound.) 


See also 3.4. Henderson; 7.4. Semark. 
6.2.1. Dante and T. S. Eliot 


Costanzo, Dianne R. “The Non-Teleological Progression from Hell to Purgatory in 
the Poetry of T. S. Eliot.” DAI 43 (1982): 807A. Loyola U. of Chicago. (The 





Dante Studies: A Decade of American Dissertations 177 


author contrasts Eliot’s spiritual itinerary in the Four Quartets with the pilgrim’s 
journey in the Commedia.) 

Jay, Gregory S. “The Philosophy of Disillusion: A Reading of T. S. Eliot’s 
Revisionary Poetics.” DAI 41 (1980): 245A. State U. of New York at Buffalo. 
(Chapter 2 looks at Dante’s influence on Eliot.) 

Reeves, Gareth E. “T. S. Eliot and Virgil.” DAI 41 (1981): 4714A. Stanford U. 
(Chapter 4 discusses Eliot’s “Little Gidding” in the light of Dante’s treatment of 
Virgil in the Commedia.) 

Richards, Mary M. “The Idea of Rome in the Work of T. S. Eliot.” DAI 47 (1986): 
1736A. The U. of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. (Richards discusses Dante’s 
influence on Eliot.) 

Sicari, Stephen F. “Dante and Modemism: The Themes of Purification, Prescription, 
and Perfection in Pound, Joyce, and Eliot.” DAI 48 (1986): 401A. Cornell U. 
Wizniter, Eileen R “The Paradox of Universality: A Study of the Poetics of The Waste 
Land.” DAI 42 (1981): 718A. Brandeis U. (The author examines the problem of 

universality in several literary works, including the Commedia.) 

Woodlever, Kristin R. “The Approach to the Still Point: The Parallel Journeys of T. 
S. Eliot and Dante.” DAI 41 (1980): 5113A. U. of Pittsburgh. 


See also 6.1. Knowles; 7.4. Vandermey. 
6.3. French and Spanish Literatures 


Nowak, Stanley J., Jr. “A Comparative Analysis of the Lazzarillo de Tormes and the 
Seven Capital Sins.” DAI 46 (1984): 973A. The Pennsylvania State U. (Parallels 
are drawn to the Commedia, especially to the use of the Seven Capital Sins as a 
controlling structure in the Purgatorio.) 

Roston, Jacqueline G. “Camus’s ‘recit’? La Chute: A Rereading through Dante’s 
Commedia or Clamence’s Mad Flight.” DAI 44 (1983): 3080A. The U. of 
Michigan. 


See also 3.4. Rosenberg; 4.2. Garnett; 4.3. O’Neill; 7.1. Sinnreich. 

6.4. Slavic and East European Literatures 

Pollak, Nancy. “The Obscure Way to Mandelstam’s Armenia.” DAI 45 (1983): 540A. 
Yale U. (Pollak discusses “Razgovor o Dante,” a text in which Mandelstam uses 
Dante’s pilgrimage as a pretext for a description of his own poetics; and 
establishes parallels between the two authors.) 

7. Miscellanea 


7.1. Dante on Vernacular Lyric Poetics 


Huot, Sylvia J. “Lyric Poetics and the Art of Compilation in the Fourteenth Century.” 
DAI 43 (1982): 1142A. Princeton U. (The Appendix examines Dante’s treatment 


178 Marina R. de Fazio 


of vernacular lyric poetics in the Commedia.) 

Sinnreich, Deborah M. “‘Eustache Deschamps’ L’Art de dictier.” DAI 48 (1987): 
646A. City U. of New York. (A comparison is made between Deschamps’ work 
and Dante’s De vulgari eloquentia.) 


7.2. Linguistic Theory 


Marks, Herbert J. “The Language of Adam: Biblical Naming and Poetic Etymology.” 
DAI 47 (1985): 1311A. Yale U. (Chapter 2 analyzes Dante’s ideal of an 
“illustrious vernacular” in the context of his views on adamic language.) 

Work, Elisabeth P. “The Foundations of Vernacular Eloquence in Gallo-Romance from 
the ‘Song of Saint Eulalia’ to the ‘Song of Saint Fides.”” DAI 43 (1982): 1143A. 
Princeton U. (The author treats the conception of vernacular eloquence in Dante.) 


7.3. Allegory 


Castle, Ellen E. “Wittgenstein and Practical Criticism: Readings in Dante, 
Shakespeare, Austen, and Dickens.” DAI 44 (1984): 3386A. Boston College. 
(Chapter 2 discusses Wittgenstein’s reading of Dante’s allegory.) 

Thaler, Estelle M. “Major Strategies in Twentieth-Century Drama: Apocalyptic 
Vision, Allegory and Open Form.” DAI 44 (1983): 163A. St. John’s U. (The 
author analyzes the use of Dante’s “polysemous” mode of communication in XX 
Century drama.) 

Winhl, Gary S. “‘Truth in Mosaic’: Studies in Ruskin’s Modern Painters and Related 
Works.” DAI 45 (1983): 531A. Yale U. (Chapter 3 includes a discussion on 
Ruskin’s treatment of Dante’s use of allegory.) 


See also 2. Beal; 3.5. Baig; 6.1.1. Robinson. 

7.4. The Visionary Tradition 

Semark, Douglas L. “The Visionary Tradition: The Ancients, Dante and Poe.” DAI 48 
(1987): 1764A. Case Western Reserve U. 

Vandermey, Randall J. “Desire and Restraint in the Visionary Long Poem: Studies in 
Dante’s Divine Comedy, Wordsworth’s The Prelude, and Eliot’s Four Quartets.” 
DAI 48 (1987): 1781A. The U. of Iowa. 


See also 6.1.1. Payne. 


The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 









































' ® 
Pheer? 0 tay Vong nat ay 
~ ors kde ; . Poh pend Dal $ 


. = te a, ie 
oe i nang wee h ww 
i Ohith tro 4 ons sth be, ) ae. tien, 
mete 
Oy hetina ens, | 





Vise midi” whiciy Bae @  - nn ru » iy of 


aad icf of a Paid’ ait aan 
Pon hie hapa ay ha Ties 2 rr aay “8 
YA HEA HET SH ssc Yn ¢ - Ae Tiousolifiotand.<anf 

' arte iat ALE oT) J th sy a) \ sv , aT i) a’ Bde te.~ 

* Ba s ey an tet "at ud! hihisttal! 

eis “els ol hey At ene 
; Peri 9: othe ¥ Wer id 

rt w. ‘paapls 7 i basi hei: 

Prana wit Ee 

"be ; Le Sv lil wir BORv sie nt 
x ie ‘iy diy TPS” Sus" hae NEY dard 
ai vis te sito Walls * Se ust RY iy Murad 
ay uprsdal } ist 9 Sain! ©) ob Du peayirs up wllsds! 
vik iden th ahh soraig aie afta 


e Feat Sh s8iti “gah “io aime at6 Heit alert ME 
6 att rhiomntyo Ll se ath trict Ne i fol 
Mute drei aids of Rayan! ere iter 

f ait o Aas Aw tos card m teeter 
‘wuts be Ri eihat heh biti Ig wor 

eh ce Mi Py tnghied 

Ree i” ca aidan SHY mise 
D citi anbaatbaiy iP iri ‘il a 
2 basi “fade Salt bein! penta 
2 eat aserty he ig 2G 
owe Cited HER Vit ieee ets 
Patel Pie ssh be, 


4 





ae 





ih Sh 





bit e'b oH Taaast ; ‘i ET p3 
bid yi, 5 a au 


“y ' vie tint ‘ity 
Secs : 


NY) biwshtre 7 ny 


mart Mm ma 
Hi nese 


| 


Robert P. Harrison 


Phenomenology of the Vita nuova 


When he kindly invited me to contribute to this special issue of Annali 
d italianistica, Dino S. Cervigni asked me to elaborate on the nature of my 
“phenomenological approach” to the Vita nuova. He had read my recently 
published book, The Body of Beatrice, and had found it “difficult” both in the 
articulation of its thesis and the practise of its method. I acknowledged this 
difficulty but remarked that the book in any case is not as difficult as the Vita 
nuova. Few books are. Years ago I heard an Italian scholar ask John Freccero 
why he had not written on the Vita nuova, and the answer was straightforward: 
“E troppo difficile.” The statement says something essential about the libello, 
and in some ways my investigation could be seen as an attempt not to challenge 
but rather to accentuate the nature of this difficulty. As I stated in the 
introduction to The Body of Beatrice, one of my goals was to restore to the 
libello its enigmatic quality, its imaginary and literary density, its extraordinary 
textual difficulty, its pockets of silence and its refusal to yield all of its secrets. 
My approach, therefore, was not deliberately difficult but strived rather for 
maximal clarity with regard to the boundaries of opacity which define the work 
and which defy some of the conventional hermeneutic paradigms of Dante 
scholarship. In short, my goal was not so much to “throw light” on the Vita 
nuova but to account for the source of its obscurity. 

Cervigni’s reference to my “phenomenological approach” alludes to a single 
sentence in the introduction to The Body of Beatrice. I did not dwell explicitly 
upon this issue in the introduction simply because it would have involved a 
dense theoretical discussion, or a meta-disquisition about phenomenology which 
in itself would not have advanced my investigation very far. On the contrary, 
such a digression would most likely have given rise to several misunderstandings 
and perplexities. If at this point I feel free to engage in a discussion about the 
“phenomenological approach,” it is for at least three reasons. The first is that 
Cervigni has requested that I do so. The second is that I now speak “hors texte,” 
as it were, and whatever I say cannot or should not be held against the book 
itself. And the third is that, judging from various reactions to my book so far, it 
seems that I was unable to avoid certain misunderstandings about my approach 
after all. In the pages that follow, then, I will try to clarify in a brief and 
succinct manner what I meant by a “phenomenological approach” to the Vita 
nuova, even at the risk of conjuring up the wisdom of an old Roman proverb: 
“Stavamo meglio quando stavamo peggio.” 

Perhaps it was naive of me to begin my book by discussing the critical 











Phenomenology of the Vita nuova 181 


differences between the Italian and American hermeneutic paradigms that have 
predetermined most of the interpretations of the Vita nuova and to believe that 
readers would not reduce my own approach to an attempt at a synthesis or 
reconciliation of the two. The Italian paradigm I linked to Domenico De 
Robertis, whose II libro della "Vita nuova" represents a philological tour de 
force. The American paradigm I linked to Charles S. Singleton’s An Essay on 
the "Vita nuova,” which has exercised a sort of hegemonic influence over most 
of the American scholarship devoted to the libello. One paradigm, I argued, 
embodies a creative philology while the other embodies a creative theology; or 
better, one approaches the libello as the testimony of Dante’s literary 
apprenticeship in late thirteenth-century Florence, while the other approaches it 
as a sort of “divine commodity” for theological consumption. In my 
introduction, I state somewhat cryptically: “The Body of Beatrice embodies a 
critical alternative that lies outside the parameters of these two paradigms. This 
critical alternative is not a synthesis or fusion of the two, but a different 
approach altogether. I would call it a phenomenological approach if such a term 
did not require a series of qualifications which would further delay what is 
essential to the phenomenological project, namely the attempt to go directly to 
the ‘to the thing itself’” (4). Let us proceed, then, with the series of 
qualifications. 

To begin with, I cannot conceive of a “phenomenological approach” to the 
Divine Comedy. This is because it is a profoundly different kind of work than 
the Vita nuova. It has a different ambition, a different inspiration, a different 
nature. It is a hypothesis, while the Vita nuova is a hypostasis. In the early 
work Beatrice appears as a phenomenon, in the later as a mere figure. More 
importantly, the Divine Comedy assumes the prior givenness of the world, of 
history, of presence, of order, of the self; in short it already takes for granted a 
phenomenal totality and proceeds to symbolize — however problematically — 
its universal meaning. The Vita nuova, by contrast, interrogates the very 
givenness of what is given (or for-given) in presence. In its obsessive 
preoccupation with Beatrice — her existentiality, her appearance, her being in 
the world and her being in death — it seems to ask about the genesis or 
preconditions or underlying “meaning” of the phenomenon as such. The 
difference between the two works, then, could be conceived as the difference 
between the two implicit questions that seem to sustain their inspirations. In 
one case: “What is the universal law that holds sway over the phenomenal 
totality?” In the other: ““How is Beatrice possible?” 

In the former case we are dealing with a poetic theology; in the latter with a 
gothic phenomenology. Phenomenology, which asks about the genesis of the 
phenomenon, appertains initially to the Vita nuova, therefore, and only 
afterwards to the critical approach. Indeed, to approach the Vita nuova 
phenomenologically means nothing more than to respond or correspond to the 
“matter itself.” It means to approach the source of the libello’s 


182 Robert P. Harrison 


phenomenological inspiration, or to approach the modes of its access to the 
phenomenon (i.e., to Beatrice), and to discover what is most essential in these 
modes. As I labor to argue in The Body of Beatrice, the Vita nuova is wholly 
absorbed in its approach to Beatrice — her dazzling phenomenality and her 
withdrawing body. In this sense the libello already contains an inherent 
phenomenological directive that predetermines the approach. Such a 
phenomenological approach would be altogether inappropriate in the case of the 
Divine Comedy, simply because the later work, in its pre-formulated hypothesis 
of the world, is non-phenomenological. 

It is important to stress here that a phenomenological approach does not 
mean the phenomenological method. This latter, as it was formulated by 
Husserl, is a very precise and rigorous series of reductions intended to disclose 
transcendental subjectivity as the ideal and irreducible source of all 
phenomenalization whatsoever. It involves, among other things, the suspension 
of the “natural attitude,” a bracketing of the existence of the external world, and a 
focus on the intentional acts of consciousness as ideal correlates of what is given 
in intuition. Husserl, however, was unable to control the great profusion of 
meanings given to the term phenomenology in the first decades of the century, 
and he often protested that is was being used (by Heidegger, among others) in 
ways that had little to do with his conception. It is now quite impossible to 
reconcile all the various meanings that have accrued around the term, and the 
most that one can say is that they all share at least one thing in common: a 
concern for determining the modes of givenness by which the phenomenon 
reveals itself as what it is. When I speak of phenomenology in relation to the 
Vita nuova, then, I use the term loosely to refer first to Dante’s preoccupations 
with the mysteries surrounding Beatrice’s appearance in the world, and second to 
my Own preoccupation with the phenomenological dimension of the libello. The 
phenomenological approach is one that emphasizes the degree to which Dante, in 
this early work, is engaged in a quest — a quest for revelation with regard to the 
phenomenon. 

One of the main claims of The Body of Beatrice is that the libello ends 
before the quest does. The dramatic visions or dreams of the Vita nuova promise 
an ultimate revelation, but such a revelation, despite the Singletonian thesis to 
the contrary, is not forthcoming. The verace giudicio of Dante’s “marvelous 
vision” remains veiled in obscurity, just as Beatrice’s naked body in the vision 
remains veiled in a crimson cloth wrapped loosely around her. The “miraculous 
vision” of the final chapter likewise promises some ultimate closure in the 
narrative of Dante’s quest, and yet it merely suspends the quest by projecting it 
into another dimension altogether. Why this obscurity? Why this withholding? 
Why this failure to resolve the story the /ibello undertakes to narrate? These are 
questions that point to the source of the work’s opacity, or “difficulty.” In my 
phenomenological analysis I find that the source of difficulty lies in the 
immanent transcendence of human temporality. The Vita nuova remains opaque 


Phenomenology of the Vita nuova 183 


precisely because it discovers that time is intimately bound up with the process 
by which the phenomenon reveals itself. Even Singleton had emphasized the 
extent to which time functions as a revelatory principle in the Vita nuova, yet 
his theological prejudice arbitrarily and artificially posited an ultra-temporal, 
divine perspective from which time and revelation become complete and 
finalized. Such a perspective, however, is lacking in the Vita nuova. Time (and 
this means even the dream of its finality, or “eternity”) is grounded in finitude — 
Beatrice’s on the one hand, her lover’s on the other. This, I argue, is the implicit 
phenomenological discovery of the Vita nuova. In the realm of such finitude the 
phenomenon comes to presence from out of a great recess of absentiality, and it 
is toward this ever-receding dimension of origins and futurity that the Vita nuova 
as well as its protagonist extend themselves. 

This is not the place to rehearse my interpretation of Dante’s text. My 
intention here is merely to insist that when I stated in my introduction that The 
Body of Beatrice embodies “a different approach altogether” than either De 
Robertis’s or Singleton’s, I did not mean to suggest that it merely brackets both 
philological and theological hermeneutics (The Body of Beatrice in fact 
appropriates the tools and positive contributions of both), nor that it merely 
brings the two together in an ideal synthesis (it does indeed bring the two 
together, but only functionally or transitively); rather, I meant to suggest that 
my approach has as its ultimate concern a dimension of the Vita nuova which 
neither philology nor theology, nor a mere combination of the two, can uncover, 
namely, the phenomenological dimension. I do not know how else to refer to the 
libello’s quest for the genetic secret of the phenomenon, or for the so-called 
“meaning” of Beatrice in all her existential facticity. This wonder before a 
woman, this visionary delirium engendered by her presence, this suspension of 
the prosaic world in the oneiric nebula of the phantasm, and this power of 
Beatrice to animate the lyric voice in a sort of symbiosis of incorporation — all 
this seems to me to precede the mere rhetoric of poetry or the weighty 
superstructures of theology. In other words this very strange and difficult 
autobiography suggests that Dante’s literary career has its very origin in the 
phenomenological quest. Phenomenology in this case is the quest. Only for that 
reason can it become the basis for my “approach.” 

In this sense the phenomenological approach can be distinguished from both 
philology and theology. Philology is a search for positive certitudes. It deals 
with that which is already given by text, context and tradition. It has plenty of 
room for doubts, but always within the positively defined parameters of factual 
plausibility. Theology is a search for ultimate order. It has room for disorder, but 
always on the basis of a pre-posited measure of order. Phenomenology as I 
intend it in this context is also a search, but one of a different sort. It seeks to 
determine the modes by which something gives itself in presence, or takes itself 
away in absence. Its doubts are grounded in the privative dimensions of the 
matter itself. They are not pre-circumscribed by paradigms of expectation but 


184 Robert P. Harrison 


arise from the phenomenon’s intrinsic refusal to become wholly transparent in 
its modes of revelation. In my view, then, the Vita nuova is implicitly and 
fundamentally engaged in a phenomenology of its own special kind. There is no 
doubt that theology remains an important dimension of its phenomenology, 
insofar as Dante was a medieval poet deeply committed to the doctrines of 
Christianity, through which he was bound to approach the phenomenon. Nor is 
there any doubt that the Vita nuova is rooted in a local historical and literary 
context, as philology so persuasively reminds us. Nevertheless, its 
phenomenological quest cannot, in my view, be reduced either to its theological 
content, nor to the various local circumstances of the work’s composition. The 
quest, as Dante transcribes it in the Vita nuova, reveals a dimension that remains 
opaque, that resists inclusion by doctrinal categories, and that frustrates all 
attempts to articulate an ultimate finality. 

Expressed otherwise, the Vita nuova is the literary testimony of Dante’s 
probing of the meaning of the life and death of Beatrice. This meaning remains 
outstanding — a transcendence that arises from the finite nature of time and that 
accounts for the libello’s inability to fully seize or explain the genetic secret of 
Beatrice. I would not say that my phenomenological approach looks for the 
secret of the literary testimony the way Dante looked for the secret of Beatrice, 
but I would say that it looks for the irreducible reasons why the secret in both 
cases is withheld. This makes for a difficult disquisition, no doubt, but 
unfortunately there is no easy way to account for the genesis of a career like 
Dante’s. 


Stanford University 


Works Cited 


De Robertis, Domenico. /I libro della “Vita nuova.” Firenze: Sansoni, 1961. 

Harrison, Robert P. The Body of Beatrice. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1989. 

Singleton, Charles S. An Essay on the Vita nuova. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1949. 
(Rpt.: Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1977.) 





Albert Russell Ascoli 


‘“Neminem ante nos”: 
Historicity and Authority 


in the De vulgari eloquentia™ 


Throughout the oeuvre of Dante, from the Vita nuova, to the Convivio, and the 
De vulgari eloquentia, prose explicitly plays the role of servant commentary to 
the personified master-text of poetry. Throughout the history of Dante criticism 
in America (and elsewhere), the opere minori, especially the prose works, have 
played the role of humble subordinates to the interpretation of the master-text of 
the Commedia itself. It is not, of course, my intention to argue that either Dante 
or the critics have erred in privileging the Commedia as his (and even Western 
culture’s) magnum opus. I would assert, however, that by always reading the 
prose and prosimetrum works as steps along the way to the sacro poema, rather 
than by taking them on their own terms, we have lost an opportunity for 
understanding how Dante went about constructing a personal and historical 
authority for himself, in a cultural context where authority was typically 
constructed according to rigorously impersonal and ahistorical canons of 
representation and belief. 

In addition to taking different forms of authority (political, ecclesiastical, 


* Versions of this essay were delivered at the Annual Meeting of the Renaissance Society of 
America in Boston, April 1989; at a Northwestern University Conference on “Italy in the 
Cultural Imagination” in May 1989; and at the Fellow’s Seminar of the Newberry Library of 
Chicago in January 1990. The research and writing have been supported during the 1989-90 
academic year by an NEH senior fellowship. 

1 Here and throughout I assume the discussion of auctoritas in Ascoli, 1987, pp. 25-29 et 
passim, which in tum draws upon Chenu 1927 & 1964; Curtius; Minnis 1984; and ED vol.1, 
entries under “autorita,” “autentico,” “autentim,” and “autore.” Useful theoretical and historical 
discussions of the general problem of “authority” are in Arendt; Said, pp. 81-100; Quint; 
Guillory; Miller. The particular paradox which interests me in Dante has been formulated 
elegantly by Contini 1965, pp. 76-77: “Dante @ un produttore di auctoritates. Culturalmente egli 
é un uomo del medio evo per il quale . . . la sentenza . . . é fonte di conoscenza non meno . . . che 
il ragionamento e l’esperienza diretta; salvo che, invece di limitarsi a incastonare e glossare 
detti memorabili . . . egli ne produce dei suoi, e conferisce lo stesso piglio legislativo . . . a tutti 
i suoi enunciati.” Mengaldo 1978, pp. 12-13 & 33-39, and 1979, pp. 11-12, and Corti 1981, 
pp. 10, 35 begin to show how specifically applicable Contini’s formulation is to the De vulgari 
eloquentia. All three tend to stress 1) Dante’s “sperimentalismo” (e.g., Mengaldo 1978, p. 12; 
Corti, p. 35); 2) his eclectic conflation of authorities to produce a novel synthesis (e.g., Corti, 
p. 46; cf. Dronke 1986, p. xii); and 3) his citation of “modern” authorities alongside the 
traditional ancients (e.g. Marigo, pp. ciii ff.; Mengaldo 1978, p. 38; 1979, pp. 11-12; cf. 
Mazzotta 1979, ch. 5; Barolini 1984). 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 187 


philosophical, theological, poetic, and linguistic, as may be) as their “subjects,” 
each of Dante’s prose works deploys a unique and complex set of rhetorical 
strategies for establishing its own and its author’s authority vis-a-vis their 
subjects. It is my contention that the complex failures of self-presentation in 
these works, their revelation of the profound conceptual and historical obstacles 
in the way of Dante’s desire to personify authority, may, in many ways, tell us 
more about the contingent conditions that made Dante’s art possible than the 
Commedia, the “total poem,” itself, where the rhetorical fiction of a poetic self 
grounded entirely outside of history in the transcendent Logos, independent of all 
historical, human authorities (Pope, Emperor, Philosopher, and so on) is 
stunningly successful.” 


i. Historicity and Authority 


The problem of authority in Dante needs to be understood “historically” in at 
least two distinct ways, neither of which, I submit, has received its due from 
American Dante criticism. The first concerns Dante’s understanding of history in 
general, and of his own historicity, as it is inscribed in his texts. In particular, 
Dante sees his own historical situation (both in its specific details and in its 
sheer “‘historicity”) as an enormous obstacle to the assertion of intellectual and 
artistic authority, and is constantly attempting to find a formulation that both 
acknowledges that situation and reconceives history in such a way as to confer 
the desired authority. The second concerns the way that Dante and his works 
might be seen as themselves “subjects of history,” that is, the possibility of 
inscribing them in a history of cultural (literary, political-social, intellectual, 
rhetorical, or other) change whose shape and meaning they themselves do not and 
cannot know. That might mean seeing the Commedia as a complex response to, 
as well as an event in, a widening crisis that infects the whole spectrum of 
medieval “forms of authority,” not only in theory, but in the practical failures 
that Dante sees permeating contemporary Italy, beginning with papal Rome and 
communal Florence.? It might also mean following the lead of Auerbach in 


2 Out of the vast bibliography on Dante’s self-representation my own work responds most 
directly to Contini 1958; Singleton; Sarolli; Freccero (especially 1966); Mazzotta 1979; 
Barolini 1984. For the De vulgari eloquentia, I again build on foundations laid by Mengaldo 
1978, pp. 11-12; 1979, p. 3; cf. ED vol.Il, p. 407. See also note 13 below on Dante’s 
transformation of the commentary tradition. 

3 A direct consideration of this question will have to wait for another occasion, although I would 
argue that the De vulgari eloquentia offers considerable indirect evidence for it: notably in the 
intrusion of Florentine class structure into the account of Babel (see notes 34 & 37 below) and 
in the potential political function that Dante envisions for the “vulgare illustre.” For my 
particular take on the institutional conflicts, especially between papacy and empire, see Ascoli 
1989, p. 29 & n. 21, although this question has been widely discussed in Dante scholarship, 


188 Albert Russell Ascoli 


placing Dante at a pivotal point in the history of literary representation of the 
“secular world” (1961) or, more recently, that of A. J. Minnis and others in 
turning to him as the premier example of a cultural shift that leaves him and his 
texts at a rough midpoint between the impersonality of the medieval auctor and 
the personal claims of the “modern” author (1984, p. 5 et passim; 1988, esp. pp. 
vii-vili, 373, 387). 

I have already explored some of the ways in which Dante’s Convivio opens 
onto both of these questions of “historicity” (Ascoli 1989). Early in the 
Convivio, a work which openly desires to mediate between the philosophical 
authority of antiquity (above all Aristotle) and the political authority of 
contemporary Italian rulers, Dante acknowledges that his (historical) existence as 
a “stained” person (manifested in extensive, “defensive” self-representation) 
compromises the claims to attention that he wants to make for his work. In an 
extraordinary extension of the topos that authority is conferred by antiquity and 
excluded by “modernity” per se, Dante describes how his political exile has 
undermined whatever authority his works might have had. As he wanders from 
court to court through Italy, it seems, the effect of his presence is to delude those 
who had known him only through his works or through the fame of his 
disembodied name, and had imagined him as someone very different than he 
really is (I.iii-iv). As he goes on to say, then, his authority is further subject to 
question because it is articulated in Italian, the language of his family and his 
city, the primary mark of his individual, historical, identity, thus separating him 
irrevocably from the transpersonal, transhistorical, transcendent authority of the 
traditional, Latin auctores (I.v ff.). 

There are undoubtedly several specific ways in which Dante’s problematic 
grappling with his own historicity, and his subsequent attempts, both direct and 
indirect, to reconcile it with the canonical “forms of authority” could be inscribed 
within a larger historical narrative of “authority” as an idea and as a set of 
cultural practices. In the most general terms, however, what we see is a work of 
Dantean bricolage, tactical and rhetorical, to appropriate a set of utopian and 
essentially monolithic values associated with an idealized and ultimately 
transcendent past which, however, cannot be effected without the adoption of a 
set of innovative strategies of recuperation that at once facilitate the recovery of 
authoritative antiquity and signal their own irreducible modernity. Or to put it 
another way, he sets about locating his own time and place, especially proto- 
bourgeois, factional Florence, within the powerful typologies of “salvation 
history” and imperial Roman history (usually as Babelic/Babylonian anti-type), 
but does so in ways and with instruments that mark him irrevocably as a 
Florentine Italian in exile during the early fourteenth century — and that make 
him, inevitably, into the “poet laureate” of the very classes, “la gente nuova e i 


most recently by Ferrante. For relevant presentations of the historical situation, see Davis 
1984, Hyde, Holmes, Najemy. 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 189 


subiti guadagni” (/nf. XVI1.73), he so obviously and thoroughly despises.4 

Dante criticism, especially in English, has been quite effective in showing 
how he represents history in the Commedia, or rather how he orders the 
materials of contingency within his own “theology of history.”> And more 
recently there has been a return to the writing of histories of Dante and his works 
in the mode of intellectual biography and/or influence studies.6 What has been 
lacking, however, are fully adequate attempts to follow Auerbach’s lead in 
interpreting the encounter between a historical culture, on this side, and Dante’s 
attempt to inscribe and to transcend it on the other. Either history produces 
Dante, or Dante shapes and transcends history — the dynamic of encounter 
between the two is lost, and with it a chance truly to understand what makes the 
Commedia at once so unique and so “representative,” so personal and so 
“authoritative.” American Dante criticism, with its particular “historicized” 
version of the New Critical and formalist insistence on respecting the substance 
of the text, has tended toward the extreme of assuming the “total coherence” of 
Dante’s artistic intention, with some impressive results, but also with a marked 
propensity for giving us a Dante who utterly dominates his historical 
circumstances. 

Not that this problem is unique to American Dante criticism. The 
paradoxical need to choose between one “‘historicism” grounded in respect for the 
substance of the text as locus of historical knowledge and another based on 
situating the text in a larger historical framework is common to all reading, and 
is by now extraordinarily familiar to us.’ Yet it takes on special relevance with 
Dante, because it is so clear that he too is intensely aware of the problem — and 


4 For Dante’s double role as fierce critic and exemplary representative of his age see Contini 
1965, p. 110 (cf. Nardi 1942, p. 179; Corti 1978, esp. p. 256). 

5 Singleton 1954, pp. 61-62 asserts that “the poem reveals its analogy to the structure of 
history; and history, too, is God’s work,” but he also sees another version of “history” that 
Dante’s poem leaves behind: “when there is no transcendence of change . . . how can we have 
anything but history [i.e., contingency and flux]?” (p. 78). For the “theology of history,” see 
Mazzotta 1979, pp. 4-5, for whom the phrase implies a theological recognition of “the 
problematic character of every individual,” and for whom the essential, and essentially 
ambiguous, historicity of the struggle for transcendence is basic to the experience of the Divine 
Comedy. More typical, however, are the elegant account in Schnapp 1986 of the 
“transfiguration of history” in the light of eternity and Mastrobuono’s blunt imposition of 
Catholic orthodoxies on the question. 

6 Among several disparate efforts of this kind I would single out Holmes, Dronke 1986, Corti 
1978 & 1981, and Mazzotta 1984 & 1986. 

7 Cf. Zumthor 1986, pp. 32, 87, et passim for a helpful distinction between the “two 
historicities,” that of the medieval text and that of the moder reader. For recent, partial, 
critiques of “historicist” Dante criticism see Chiampi and Harrison, esp. ch. 1. On history as 
narrative, see White. For important “New Historicist” attempts to define a complex dialectic 
between the discursive “forces of history” and the textual/authorial “subject of history,” see 
Montrose, Greenblatt 1980 & 1982. 


190 Albert Russell Ascoli 


that he is, by the time of the Commedia in any case, successfully warding off 
the possibility that we might inscribe him in a history of our own devising by 
preemptively superimposing his own totalizing historiography. It is a 
constituent rhetorical premise of the Commedia that Dante’s ability to represent 
history and himself as historical being is determined by his claim to occupy a 
position outside of history and to know God’s justice and grace (and therefore the 
final meaning of human history and individual human lives, including his own) 
“from the inside” (Auerbach 1959). And Dante critics, American Dante critics in 
particular, have, as good “historicists,” recognized and attempted rather 
scrupulously to respect Dante’s own theories of history, thereby allowing Dante 
to transform himself and his poem from historical subjects, part of a narrative of 
change and contingency, into the supra-historical terminus and telos of such 
narratives. In other words, to read Dante’s poem “historically” and on its own 
terms is to concede that his position is transhistorical, while to deny the 
transcendent dimension of his writing is to betray its historicity — and Dante 
seems to have understood and deliberately played upon this paradox. Not that we 
were completely unaware of this strategy to deflect our seeing either Dante or his 
poem as subjects of historical contingency — just that we have not really 
understood it either as a rhetorical strategy or as a historical contingency. When 
we take seriously Dante’s possible claim to be imitating ““God’s way of writing” 
(see especially Singleton 1954 and 1957; Hollander 1969 and 1976) or Freccero’s 
narratological understanding of the Commedia as translating into fully 
apocalyptic terms the “perspective of the end” of Augustinian conversion (1966), 
we learn a great deal about the internal mechanisms of the poem — but we 
always look at the poem from its own perspective, accepting as a given the 
hidden, and unstable, premises of Dante’s authority.’ 

To historicize Dante in one way, then, is to dehistoricize him in another. 
How does one reverse the process without simply effecting a different kind of 
exclusion, one which imposes external concepts of historicity while trivializing 
the substance of the text? In absolute terms (in “theological” terms) there is 
probably no way to escape this historiographical analogue of the Heisenberg 
uncertainty principle, this hermeneutic circle whose circumference is everywhere 
and whose center is nowhere. In strategic and rhetorical terms, however, there are 
some productive answers: beginning with a simple recognition that the problem 
exists and that it is a limit on the possibilities for understanding Dante and his 
texts. One might even be tempted to make a frontal assault on the Commedia 
itself, to insist on its “strategic” qualities, although the poem provides its 
defenders with extraordinary, “overdetermined” resources for refuting any claims 


8 In their very different ways, both Barolini 1989 and Harrison, p. ix et passim, make this 

point. My own position is perhaps closer to Barolini’s in the desire to respect Dantean text and 
context, although there are a number of points of obvious disagreement, as well as several of 
differing emphases, between us. 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 191 


to have found contradictions, ambiguities, and other lines of fracture that might 
betray a hidden historical pressure or rhetorical deception, and although the 
readings which have been most successful in propounding such a view of the 
poem can be said to have exchanged one form of omniscience (the “realist” Dante 
knows all) for another (the “nominalist” Dante knows that all is unknowable 
[e.g., Tambling]). 

It might be easier to show how certain contradictions, even historical 
anachronisms, creep into even the most elegant critical accounts of Dante’s 
“historical ahistoricity,” his quasi-divine authority. Take for instance Charles 
Singleton’s justly famous and influential summary of Dante’s apparent claim to 
be deploying “God’s way of writing”: namely, that “the fiction is that it is not a 
fiction” (1954, p. 63; 1957, pp. 132-33). The phrase is both an 
acknowledgement and an elegant evasion of a basic “historical” contradiction: 
that Dante seems to be claiming for his text the quasi-scriptural status of pure 
“truth” but also that he, like all his contemporaries, would have understood such 
a claim in unqualified form to be the rankest form of prideful idolatry. Hence, 
Dante’s text must both be and not be making the claim, be truth and fiction at 
once.’ Singleton’s phrase, however, commands our attention as much, or 
perhaps even more, because of its rhetorical elegance and power than because of 
its solid historical grounding. If one is looking at the phrase from the 
perspective of Convivio I, and the medieval perception that “personality” is 
incompatibility with auctoritas, one notices that Singleton has used the 
impersonal “it” when he might well have said that the “fiction is that he [Dante, 
both pilgrim and poet] is not a fiction [i.e., a literary construct],” and has 
thereby already conceded the success of the poet in depersonalizing himself as 
author. 

If one then scrutinizes the phrase from the perspective of a suspicious, 
historicist philology, another, and perhaps more important, problem emerges. In 
its original context Singleton’s remark is accompanied by a careful distinction 
between the supreme, unselfconscious self-representations of the Commedia (and 
the Middle Ages) and the phenomenon of the Renaissance that we now refer to, 
with encouragement from that neo-Burckhardtian, Stephen Greenblatt, as “self- 
fashioning” (1980). In fact, Singleton specifically opposes the Dantean poetics 
of effaced fiction to the transparent self-declaration of fictionality in Ariosto’s 
Orlando furioso (1954, p. 62), where the evident truth is that the whole poem is 
a web of lies, its author a confessed fabricator. And the purpose of the 
comparison is obviously to establish that the formula “the fiction is that it is 
not a fiction” is historically appropriate to the still devout Middle Ages and not 


9 For a relevant early critique of Singleton see Greene and Singleton’s reply [1957]. One focus 
for this paradox is the figure of Geryon, and the “ver c’ha faccia di menzogna” of Dante’s own 
text, in /nf. cantos XVI-XVII. Cf. Barolini 1984, pp. 213-14; Ferrucci; Hollander 1976, pp. 75- 
76; Ascoli 1987, pp. 252-55, 277-78, & 1989, pp. 43-44. 


192 Albert Russell Ascoli 


to the secularizing, doubting Renaissance (p. 77). But Singleton’s positing of a 
radical shift in the modes of literary authority from Middle Ages to Renaissance, 
is betrayed by the very phrase it is intended to support. Surely Singleton, 
translator of the Ariosto’s contemporary Castiglione, is echoing the phrase that 
he himself renders as “we may call that art true art which does not seem to be 
art; nor must one be more careful of anything than of concealing it” (Courtier 
I.xxvii). The essence of the Courtier’s self-representation as courtly persona is 
that he himself is a fiction which conceals its/his own fictionality. In short, far 
from separating the Middle Ages from the Renaissance “historically,” Singleton 
implicitly conflated them precisely around an artifice of self-representation which 
labors to occult itself and thereby constitute itself, and its “auctor,” as worthy of 
“faith and obedience” (Convivio IV.vi.5). 

Another strategy, the one that I will adopt in the balance of this essay, is to 
reassess the narrative of “palinodic” overgoing by which much contemporary 
American Dante criticism tends to define the relation of the Commedia to the 
opere minori, especially the prose works, as well as to its (classical) literary 
precursors.!° Through the literary equivalent of the eschatological, anagogical, 
vantage point the poem claims for itself vis-a-vis the contingencies of history, 
the Commedia deliberately reinscribes idealized and reductive “histories” of 
Virgilian epic, Ovidian myth, as well as of Dante’s own earlier works, positing 
itself as transcendent telos, as poetic eschaton. Elsewhere I have argued that the 
critics who have developed our understanding of the Dantean palinode have been 
exactly right in the claims that such a mechanism exists, but have consistently 
failed to explore the possibility that it might best be read as a rhetorical and 
tactical device for asserting authority, and for apotropaically deflecting readerly 
“historicization,” rather than as the representation of a true change in heart and 
mind (1989, pp. 42-43). In other words, to read the opere minori according to a 
narrative teleology that consistently and reductively posits the Convivio and the 
De vulgari eloquentia as “middle terms” pointed toward the transcendent terminus 
of the poema sacro is to fall into a rhetorical “trap” set by the Commedia itself. 
By reading the prose and prosimetrum works as complex, conflicted texts in their 
own right (with help from an Italian critical tradition that has more consistently 
treated them as such),!! we might more easily discover what the palinode is 


10 Pietrobono and others developed this narrative of palinode first in Italy, although Freccero 
(especially 1966; 1973) and others have elaborated it (cf. Ascoli 1989, p. 42, n.47). An 
analogous narrative of Dante’s evocation/dismissal of Virgil and Ovid from the perspective of 
an Augustinian critique of pagan poetics is now the driving force in much of contemporary 
American criticism (e.g. Hollander 1983; Barolini 1984, pp. 188ff.; et alii). Mazzotta 1979, 
esp. pp. 147ff., argues that Dante structures a fully reciprocal critique between Virgil and 
Augustine. 

11 cf, Mengaldo 1978, p. 13. Even among the better American critics, De vulgari eloquentia 
tends to be one dialectical step along the way to readings of the Commedia. See, for example, 
Colish; Hollander 1975; Brownlee. One important exception is the Harvard dissertation in 











Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 193 


evidently designed to conceal: the historical, rhetorical character of Dante’s quest 
for “theological” authority. For example, we might recognize that while the 
“failures” of the Convivio and the De vulgari eloquentia to arrive at the definitive 
“solution” of the Commedia are everywhere apparent, and most obviously in 
their incomplete, fragmentary condition, there is also significant evidence that 
that “solution” is in the process of being elaborated in the two treatises. In fact, I 
would argue that the real burden of the Convivio is to overcome the dilemma of 
personal and historical authorship sketched in Book I by affecting a “Boethian” 
self-justification or, rather, self-authorization (I.ii.13; Ascoli 1989, pp. 31-32 et 
passim). 

In the Convivio, and in the De vulgari eloquentia too, as we shall see, 
Dante’s strategy for acquiring the authority that his historicity and personality 
deny him is not logical and explicit (though it does draw on the resources of 
philosophical argument, notably in the discussion of “nobilitas”). Rather, he 
works rhetorically, imaginatively, and implicitly, to create for himself and his 
work a space outside of (between and/or above) the usual hierarchy of political 
and intellectual authorities (Philosopher and Emperor),!? ultimately making a 
virtue of his “exilic,” dispossessed, condition by claiming a direct, “prophetic,” 
even “scriptural,” authorization from God (cf. Mazzotta 1984). This space, in the 
wake of Etienne Gilson, I call the “aporia dantesca.” In the Convivio, 
ultimately, Dante is legitimated as a personal and potentially “theological” 
author, but only in impersonal and oblique terms: he remains caught in an 
impasse created by the formal split between humble, historical “commentator” 
and transcendent “auctor,”!3 and by the need to leave implicit the powerful 
analogy between the vocalic poet and God as the Tetragrammaton (Ascoli 1989; 
pp. 41-42; see also Nardi 1942, pp. 193-94; Casagrande), which he has as yet no 
grounds for essentializing. It is only in the Commedia, then, that Dante finds the 
formal and conceptual solution which enables him to openly claim a direct 
theological authorization and to heal the split between the “Two Dantes.”!4 





progress by Gary Cestaro, which is dedicated entirely to the De vulgari eloquentia, one chapter 
of which I have consulted in draft. See also Rizzo, Scaglione, Welliver. 

12 On Dante’s politics in this regard see Passerin D’Entréves; Gilson; Davis 1957; Ferrante. 

13 On the commentary tradition generally, see Chenu 1964; Minnis 1984 & 1988; Allen; 
Stillinger. On the place of Dante’s autocommentary in this tradition see MacLennan; Stillinger; 
Ascoli 1989; Minnis 1988. For some general claims concerning its relevance to the De vulgari 
eloquentia see Mengaldo 1979, especially p. 3: “La struttura mentale, tipica del Medioevo, del 
trattato dottrinale come commento di testi autorevoli diviene . . . in Dante autocommento, con 
un gesto egocentrico. . . .” For Dante’s use of the accessus ad auctores in relation to his own 
texts see Nardi 1966 and Trovato. 

147 adapt Kenelm Foster’s term. Where for Foster, however, the phrase refers specifically to an 
intellectual split between a “classical” (philosophical and essentially secular) and a 
“theological” Dante, for me it covers the range of rhetorical divisions that Dante consistently 
effects between one aspect of himself (or his text) and another — pilgrim/poet, 
author/commentator, poetry/prose, and so on, as well as the epistemological and ontological 


194 Albert Russell Ascoli 


ii. Vernacular and Grammar 


The pairing of the De vulgari eloquentia and the Convivio is traditional in the 
criticism.!> Two general observations can be made about the treatises as a pair: 
1) that their concerns, especially with the problem of establishing the authority 
of vernacular culture and of Dante himself as its representative, overlap to a very 
great extent; and 2) that, given their proximity in time and their affinities in 
agenda, they show a disconcerting propensity for qualifying and even 
contradicting one another.!® Notwithstanding various attempts to explain away 
Dante’s often radical shifts in position between (as well as within) the two 
treatises,!7 the most obvious conclusion is that, faced with the enormous 
problem of defending himself and his language, Dante adopts a range of 
rhetorical tactics to achieve his ends without substantive concern for conciliating 
them logically, much less theologically. Although these rhetorical tactics are to 
some extent traceable to a self-aware intention, it would be a mistake to see 
Dante as deliberately accepting the essentially Machiavellian conclusion that the 
rhetorical ends justify the means. Rather, Dante is situated within a set of 
radically changing historical circumstances, and internally conflicting cultural 
discourses, where canonical modes of authorship are both enforced and 





categories that go with them (philosophy/theology, nature/grace, and so on). See also 
Stillinger’s treatment of Dante’s structural “divisioni” in the Vila nuova. 

15 See D’Ovidio 1876, Ewert, Weiss, and, especially, Grayson, Vinay, and Mengaldo 1978, 
1979. Both date from a period fairly early in Dante’s exile (ca. 1303-1306; for dating of De 
vulgari eloquentia see ED vol.Il, pp. 401-2); both were left incomplete; both contain 
considerable material that is echoed (usually with a twist) in the Commedia. The question of 
which came first has been debated, usually in the context of trying to explain apparent 
differences of opinion between them, especially concerning the status of the vernacular. The 
reference in Convivio I.v.10 to “un libello ch’io intendo fare, Dio concedente, di Volgare 
Eloquentia,” leads to the hypothesis that De vulgari eloquentia follows Convivio in time and 
constitutes a further, logical development in Dante’s thinking. More complex is Vinay’s thesis 
(pp. 239ff) that Convivio I precedes, while book IV follows, De vulgari eloquentia (see also 
Grayson’s modification, pp. 19-24, and Davis 1984, pp. 1-22). My own reading of Convivio IV 
suggests that it is a natural extension and consequence of the problems posed at the beginning 
of the treatise. 

16 Mengaldo 1978, pp. 60 ff., and 1979, pp. 6-7, gives the best account of the full range of 
potential contradictions between the two treatises and even within the De vulgari eloquentia 
itself. See also D’Ovidio 1876, pp. 76-79; Rizzo, pp. 72-73; Pagani, pp. 11, 152-154, et 
passim. 

17 Marigo, p. lvii; Nardi 1942, p. 173 et passim; Weiss, p. 160; Ewert, p. 356; Rizzo, p. 78; 
Scaglione, p. 31. These attempts are of two basic kinds: 1) synchronic (there is no conceptual 
contradiction after all); and 2) diachronic (changes can be accounted for by a narrative of logical 
evolution over time). Nardi, Vinay (pp. 236ff), and Grayson are the best examples of the second 
strategy. 





Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 195 


dysfunctional. Precisely the high degree of change and contradiction forces Dante 
onto a high level of “self-awareness” (awareness of self that is decidedly not at 
one with its culture and historical moment, but yearns to be so) and moves him 
to attempt reconciling in practice the theoretically irreconcilable — incorporating 
the novelties of his own time and his own circumstances into a “body cultural” 
that can, as it were, swallow them, but never digest them completely.!8 

In the Convivio the problem of constructing authority pivots explicitly and 
anxiously around the three related questions: that of authorial “personality” and 
self-representation; that of the inferior status of Italian language; and that of the 
marginal situation of poetry as a discourse vis-a-vis philosophy, politics, and 
theology (Ascoli 1989, pp. 26, 39-41; Hollander 1976, pp. 45-50). In the De 
vulgari eloquentia, by contrast, the search to acquire cultural legitimacy for 
vernacular language in general and for the illustrious Italian vernacular in 
particular is the central concern from the beginning of the treatise, taking 
apparent precedence over the other two, which are no longer openly thematized as 
obstacles to authority. Even in the matter of vernacular itself the De vulgari 
eloquentia initially seems to be much farther down the road to full Dantean self- 
authorization than its companion. The Convivio’s ostentatious deference to 
classical authorities and Latin culture have seemingly disappeared in the De 
vulgari eloquentia. Where the former opens with a gesture of submission, “Si 
come dice lo Filosofo” (I.i.1), the latter boldly asserts its autonomous 
originality and modernity immediately, “neminem ante nos de vulgaris 
eloquentie doctrina quicquam inveniamus tractasse” (I.i.1) and later insists, 
“inquirere intendamus de hiis in quibus nullius autoritate fulcimur” (I.ix.1).1° 
Just as abruptly, Dante reverses the conventional hierarchy established in 
Convivio between master “gramatica” and servant “vernacular,” to declare that 
“nobilior est vulgaris.” 

Furthermore, Dante’s status as author of the treatise is not brought openly 
into question in the De vulgari eloquentia, nor is the question of “personality” 
raised explicitly. The problematic sense of the “stained” individual author is 
replaced by an almost arrogant assurance of Dante’s right and ability to treat this 
subject. Instead of a humble apologist, we find a self-confident “voice of reason,” 
which stands at a dispassionate and impersonal distance from its subject. And 


18 Despite my reservations, articulated here and there throughout this essay, about the ways in 
which she goes about proving her thesis, I think it is worth pursuing the insight of Corti 1978 
into “la corrosione che le nuove strutture ideologiche producono nelle strutture semiotiche che il 
passato consegna ad ogni contesto sociale” (p. 256), in tandem with Mazzotta’s broader sense 
(esp. 1984, 1986) of what widely diverse currents make up both the body of past doctrines (or, 
“semiotic structures”) and the repertory of contemporary positions (which may, in fact, lack the 
requisite coherence among themselves to be defined as “ideology” tout court). 

19 On the De vulgari eloquentia’s medieval sources and precedents see D’Ovidio 1876, p. 69; 
Weiss; Ewert; Di Capua; Pagliaro, pp. 222-23; and esp. Mengaldo 1978, pp. 44-48; 1979, pp. 
10ff. Cf. Dronke 1986. 


196 Albert Russell Ascoli 


when Dante finally gets around to mentioning his exile (I.vi.3), it is only to 
affirm that it allows him to judge matters of dialect with dispassionate reason. 
Nor does the De vulgari eloquentia repeat the formal division between text and 
commentary which splits Dante’s authorial identity “schizophrenically” in the 
Convivio, calling insistent attention to the ambiguity of his position. By the 
same token, it does not initially thematize an opposition between poetry and 
prose, although poetry occupies a privileged and apparently unanxious role — as 
the source of examples in Book I’s treatment of language and as the primary 
object of analysis in Book II. 

One crucial example should suffice, however, to suggest how intimately the 
questions of individual authorship and poetic form are bound up with the 
problem of language, even in the De vulgari eloquentia. Although, as I have just 
said, the text/commentary, auctor/commentator, structure of the Convivio has 
disappeared, an equivalent split does persist only slightly less obviously in the 
De vulgari eloquentia. The first person plural “nos” who writes the treatise in 
Latin prose offers multiple examples, mostly poetic, of vernacular prose. In the 
strings of examples offered, first of the “vulgare illustre” and then of the “tragic” 
style, and of the “cantio” which is the vernacular perfection of that language and 
that style, one figure, Dante himself recurs with ever increasing prominence. 
This “other Dante” is, until very late in the treatise, designated in an objective 
third person and with coy obliquity, not by his name but as the “amicus” of 
Cino da Pistoia (I.x.2; xvii.3; IL.ii.8 [twice]; v.4; vi.6; see I.xiii.4). This device 
rehearses all the ambivalence that surrounds self-representation in the Convivio 
and reflects the same medieval, rhetorical taboos against self-reference which are 
adduced and anxiously excused in the other treatise.2° At the same time, the 
obvious effect of these self-effacing, self-references is to draw even more 
attention to Dante himself as poetic author. Thus a potentially “schizophrenic” 
separation is reinstalled between “two Dantes,” which subsumes oppositions 
between personal and impersonal authorship, prose and poetry, Latin and 
vernacular, and which is symptomatic of an underlying crisis in authority that 
runs every bit as deep in De vulgari eloquentia as it does in Convivio. 

We should begin, then, where the De vulgari eloquentia itself begins, 
namely with the apparently unequivocal and self-evident triumph of “vulgare” 
over “gramatica” which reverses not only the Convivio but also the “official 
culture” of the day. And we should note immediately that another obvious 


20 For both sides of the question of self-representation and poetic individuality in the Middle 
Ages, see Spitzer; Curtius, pp. 515-18; Dronke 1970; Zumthor 1972, pp. 64-74 et passim, & 
1975, pp. 163-80; Minnis 1984. I clearly see in Dante a manipulation and transformation of the 
codes of self-reference that can only be explained as the result of an complex, reciprocal 
encounter between a cultural system and an individual subjectivity. While my work clearly owes 
some debts to recent “new historicist” accounts of poetic selfhood (especially Greenblatt and 
Helgerson), there are some notable differences, including a reluctance to see this phenomenon 
as specific to the “Renaissance” as traditionally defined. 





Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 197 


contrast between the two treatises points up that this “triumph” is at best partial, 
at worst illusory. For where the Convivio celebrates the authority of Latin in 
vernacular prose, the De vulgari eloquentia celebrates Italian vernacular in Latin 
prose. This second inversion, symmetrical and antithetical to the first, suggests 
that Dante does not after all feel fully confident in the nobility of vernacular, 
since he props it up against the authority of the very kind of language he says is 
inferior to it! 2! One could, of course, argue that in making Latin serve as a sort 
of commentary on vernacular, he has implicitly reversed the master/servant 
metaphors of the Convivio. Nonetheless, the immediate effect is to create a 
moment of suspension in which content says one thing and form contradicts it. 

As we shall now see, the “gramatica”/‘vulgare” opposition is simply a 
starting point, an opening gambit, in a much more elaborate procedure which 
acknowledges the inadequacies, even the constituent “sinfulness,” of most 
vernaculars, recuperates the values usually associated with “gramatica,” and 
eventually develops the concept of one particular Italian vernacular, the “vulgare 
illustre,” which, at least in some accounts, is really a hybrid of the qualities 
initially divided between “vernacular” and “grammar.” Book 1, in fact, is 
structured precisely by a movement from that opening opposition to the 
definition and qualification of the “vulgare illustre,” moved by an argument that 
is alternately “historical” and “rational” (diachronic and synchronic) in its 
treatment of language (Mengaldo 1978, p. 29; Corti 1981, p. 62). 

The criticism of the De vulgari eloquentia has consistently returned, in fact, 
to the problem of understanding how the book’s beginning is to be related to its 
ending. There are two basic positions, one which emphasizes the empirical 
“historicity” of the “vulgare illustre,” one which stresses its rational “ideality.” 
The first position argues for direct continuity between the “vernacular” in general 
and the “vulgare illustre,” claiming that the latter is in the same oppositional 
relation to grammar as the former.” It arrives at this conclusion, above all, by 
stressing the historical actuality of the “vulgare illustre” which, in addition to 
being the transcendent “langue” from which the individual “parole” of each 
regional dialect is derived, has its own empirical existence as the once and future 
language of a central Italian court (like that of Frederick II in Sicily, where Dante 
says it was spoken (I.xii.3-5) and as the current language of the “curia” in exile, 
the group of “doctores eloquentes” now dispersed throughout Italy but linked by 
“gratioso lumine rationis” (I.xviii.S). The second position tends to see the 
“vulgare illustre” as itself, in some sense, a form of “gramatica,” an ideal 


21 Mengaldo 1978, pp. 62-64; 1979, pp. 6-9; see also Marigo, pp. cxx-cxxi. Cf. Brownlee on 
Dante’s use of Latin and its relation to the construction of linguistic authority in the Commedia. 
22 The earliest and most powerful advocate of this position is Nardi 1942, esp. pp. 182-84; see 
also Vinay, Grayson. Of special recent interest is Pagani, both for the most complete, if 
polemical, review of the interlocking critical debates surrounding the De vulgari eloquentia and 
for the most radical reassertion of Nardi’s thesis (especially pp. 193ff). 


198 Albert Russell Ascoli 


language of regulated art.?3 It stresses that Dante deliberately abandons the 
inductive and “empirical” search for the elusive “panther,” or illustrious Italian 
vernacular, and asserts its existence on ideally rational grounds. It focuses on the 
definition of the “vulgare illustre” as the transcendent term against which 
empirical instances are measured — the One from which the many derive, the 
White which contains all colors within itself, the “simplicissima substantiarum” 
which is like God vis-a-vis his creation (I.xvi.2-5). 

What both positions (and their many variants) tend to reaffirm, however, is 
the need to find a logical continuity from one end of the book to the other, 
which defines in fairly schematic terms “what Dante thinks.” To date, only Pier 
Vincenzo Mengaldo, the most recent “official” editor of the De vulgari 
eloquentia, has dared to assert that in fact the treatise is shot through with 
“contradizioni insanabili” which are not susceptible to logical conciliation 
(1978, pp. 11ff.; 1979, pp. 6-10). To this I would add the further step of 
suggesting that those “contradizioni” do have a logic, but it is the logic not of a 
“truth,” not of a coherent idea about language, but of a desire — Dante’s 
impossible desire to reconcile historicity with ideality, and to appropriate for 
“vernacular” the authority of “grammar.”24 In other words, at one point or 
another Dante does make arguments in favor of both “positions” — and the key 
to reading the De vulgari eloquentia is to understand the way in which he 
negotiates between them and the motives that drive him to do so. 

At the beginning of the treatise “vernacular” in general is opposed to 
“grammar” on the following grounds: 1) the former is common to all people, 
including women and children, the latter available only to a few populations and 
to few people within them; 2) the former is “natural” to all men and is imbibed 


23 Marigo, pp. lxii ff., esp. pp. lxx, xxiv; Dragonetti, esp. pp. 29ff. For Corti 1981, whose 
work takes this thesis to its highest point, the “vulgare illustre” combines the “naturalness” of 
post-Babelic vemacular with the “universality” of regulated grammars to recapture the natural 
and universal quality of prelapsarian Adamic language, the product of “grammar” in the sense of 
the innate human faculty of language building (especially pp. 7Off.). Pagani gives very useful 
summaries and critiques of all the principle exponents of this position, although the reader 
should be sensitive to Pagani’s own excesses in affirming the resolutely historical-social 
character of Dante’s treatment of language in De vulgari eloquentia. An alternate position, 
which splits the difference between Marigo and Nardi, is that of Pagliaro, for whom the “vulgare 
illustre” is a non-ideal, historical entity (as Nardi asserts), but also a “grammar” that derives 
from the multiple vemnaculars of Italian as Latin once did from its own unspecified vernacular. 
See also Vinay, pp. 247-48 

24 th his dissertation in progress, Gary Cestaro argues that the De vulgari eloquentia is marked 
by contrasting two voices, one that of logic and philosophy, the other that of poetry, 
developing an opposition suggested by Nardi 1942, p. 180 et passim; Rizzo, pp. 72-73 (see 
also note 45 below on the quarrel over whether the treatise is a rhetorical poetics or a theory of 
language in general). While I tend to see these two “voices” as moments within a larger set of 
discursive strategies, I obviously share Cestaro’s sense of internal conflict and of the 
problematic status of the poet and of poetry in this text. 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 199 


“sine omni regula” (I.i.2) at the breast of our nurse; the latter is “regulated” and 
“artificial”; 3) the former is the language first used by humankind (i.e., the 
language of Adam and Eve was a “‘vernacular”), while the latter, as we learn later, 
was apparently first invented much later on as a way of arresting the effects of 
the Babelic “‘confusio” (1.i.2-5; see I.ix.11). In addition, at the level of image, 
Dante associates the “vulgare” with a “feminine” and childish innocence and 
fecundity — it is the language of “‘mulieres et parvuli” and of the “nutricem" — 
as against the “maleness” of Latin (I.i.1-2; see Hollander 1975, pp. 121ff.; 
Schnapp 1988). He thus deploys the terms of the gendered opposition of 
languages described by Walter Ong, while apparently reversing the value system 
that usually governs it. 

Much of what happens subsequently in the treatise does tend to create 
logical confusions between the initially opposed terms, especially by shifting 
around the qualifying attributes and images, while nonetheless leaving in place 
the rhetorical priority assigned to “vernacular.” These confusions are aggravated 
by the fact that, after the initial opposition, Dante never returns to a systematic 
contrast between “‘vulgare” and “‘gramatica” in rigorous philosophical terms 
(Vinay, p. 250), nor, on the other side, does he ever explicitly attempt to 
reconcile or synthesize them. In fact, it is doubtful whether or not the basic 
terms, “vulgare” and “gramatica,” are ever used again in exactly the same way as 
they are at the beginning — that is, to signify the general classes of empirically 
extant vernacular and grammatical languages (rather than individual empirical 
instance of grammar or vernacular, on the one hand, or transcendent “faculties” 
for generating such languages, on the other).2°> The criticism has been 
hyperconscious of this fact, in a sense, since interpretations invariably begin and 
end with redefining the terms in such a way as to support one position or the 
other (as we shall soon see). What it has not done, however, is recognize that 
the lack of a systematic definition of terms is significant in itself, given Dante’s 
obvious desire to assimilate his Latin prose to the exhaustive philosophical 
explications of Scholasticism, and that what might be at stake is a deliberate 


25 Cestaro distinguishes at least four separate senses in which “gramatica” is used by Dante 
throughout his oeuvre. More generally, as Ewert observed long ago (discussing the term 
“eloquentia”), “Dante uses his terms loosely, without attributing to each [one] . . . a meaning 
capable of being formulated in a single definition” (p. 362). Cf. Mengaldo 1978, p. 74. And see 
note 52 below. 

26 As Pagani shows, the debate can be broken down into two related controversies: 1) the 
opposition between “vernacular” and “grammar” and 2) the definition of the “vulgare illustre” 
vis-a-vis the first two categories — and I will not attempt to rehearse here again the full range of 
possibilities. The most important moment in the controversy, in any case, has been the series 
of attempts (by Marigo, Dragonetti, Corti 1981) to show that after Ii. the definition of 
“gramatica” changes radically, referring to the “speculative grammar” of Boethius of Dacia et 
alii and the counter-balancing series of attempts to show that no such redefinition takes place 
(Nardi 1942, Vinay, Grayson, Mengaldo, Pagani) 


200 Albert Russell Ascoli 


avoidance of exposing insuperable contradictions at the heart of his argument. 

What the treatise does do that consistently invites attempts to look beyond 
the “nominal” continuity between “vulgare” and “vulgare illustre,” is to a) make 
obvious distinctions in value between kinds of Italian “vernaculars” which 
implicitly call into question the unequivocal assertion that “nobilior est 
vulgaris"; and b) assign to the “vulgare illustre” a number of features and 
qualities that seem to correspond much better to “gramatica” in general than to a 
true “vernacular.” The search for a “vulgare illustre,” carried out over the last half 
of Book I, proceeds by a review of the fourteen regional dialects of Italy, which 
are rated against one another, from the depths of Florentine and Roman to the 
heights of Bolognese, and are then as a class judged to be inferior to the true 
“vulgare illustre,” which is the language not of one region or city, but of all of 
Italy (I.x-xv). And the reader’s discovery that Dante thinks of most vernaculars as 
anything but “nobilior,” itself becomes a heavy qualification on his opening 
assertion. Moreover, Dante makes it clear that this “universal” language of all 
Italians (I.xvi.3-6) is, like “gramatica,” actually used only by an elite few, 
namely the “curia in exile” of those illuminated by “gratioso lumine rationis” 
(I.xviii.5). In fact, it is intuitively clear that the “vulgare illustre,” however 
“natural” its origins, is well on its way to becoming a “language of art” and/or 
artifice. In Book I we see this mostly in the use of examples from self-conscious 
poets, who may or may not be imitating the rules of grammar in constructing 
their language, and from the connection to an intellectual elite. Book II, then, 
presents itself explicitly as the formalization of a highly regulated art (see 
especially II.iii, iv, ix-xi) that, in fact, deliberately imitates Latin “gramatica” 
(I.x.1,2; ILiv.3, 9-11, vi.7; cf. viii.6-7, xi.12).27 

Finally, while Dante scrupulously avoids reusing the key terms of the 
opening opposition in his definition of the “vulgare illustre” (especially, 
“naturalis” and “‘artificialis”), as if to leave the logical relationship between the 
two moments as obscure as possible, his use of gendered imagery in 
characterizing the “panther” very clearly shows that a reversal has taken place. 
The “vulgare illustre” is said throughout to be the language, not of family, 
females, and infancy, but rather of the “patria,” the fatherland. Early on he mocks 
the citizens of the generically provincial “Petramala” who think that their 
“maternam locutionem” is the most delightful in the world (1.vi.2). Later, after 
highlighting the problematics of gender in language by criticizing two regional 
vernaculars for making women sound like men and vice-versa (I.xiv.2-5), Dante 
specifically celebrates the one Romagnolo he knows who has turned “a materno . 
. .ad curiale vulgare” (I.xiv.7), thus effectively rejecting the “female” quality of 
the vernacular which he earlier valued. And it then comes as no surprise later on 
that he designates the “vulgare illustre” as patriarchal “paterfamilias” (I.xviii.1), 
or that the selection of words suitable for use in the highest, tragic, style of the 


27 Grayson; Mengaldo 1978, pp. 36, 71-75. 





Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 201 


“vulgare illustre” involves the rejection of “puerilia” and “muliebria” and the 
acceptance of “‘virilia” (II.vii.2), with an obvious reversal of the categories of 
11:2? 

The “logical” result of these displacements would be that of moving the 
“vulgare illustre” from the camp of vernacular in general into that of 
“gramatica,” as some critics have indeed tried to argue (n. 23 above). But since 
Dante does not work the question out logically but rather “rhetorically,” that is, 
implicitly and imaginatively, in the service of other ends, the effect is simply 
additive: the “vulgare illustre” keeps the qualities of Edenic naturalness and 
universality with which it began, while adding on those of a rational and 
exclusive artfulness. The reason for this apparently disingenuous procedure can 
be found in the chapters that lead from “vulgare” vs. “gramatica” to “vulgare 
illustre”: specifically in Dante’s obvious desire to further legitimate the 
vernacular by situating it within the economy of “salvation history,” especially 
the two founding linguistic events of Genesis — the invention of language by 
Adam and the dispersal of that original language into multiple languages at the 
Babelic “‘confusio.” 

Dante’s reflections on the history of language actually are prefaced by a 
consideration of human language in the abstract, particularly its necessary role in 
communicating ideas by sensory means between individuals who would 
otherwise be entirely isolated from one another, constituting each, as it were, 
“sua propria specie” (I.iii.1), a species separate and uncommunicative. Against 
this dispersive, anti-social tendency built into human nature, Dante imagines 
God as having “co-created” with Adam “certam formam locutionis” (I.vi.4), 
which in turn gives rise to the founding moment of communicative exchange 
between man and his Maker. The subsequent history of human language, 
however, is an ever-expanding movement back in the direction of linguistic 
fragmentation and isolation. The pivotal event, of course, is the Babelic 
“confusio” that marks the shift from a single language common to all (Hebrew, 
again) to an ever increasing dispersal and variety of tongues (I.viii-ix). 

Babel, in fact, is specifically presented by Dante as a surrogate of the Fall of 
man and the loss of Paradise. It is set at the culmination of a series of three 
instances of human presumption and degradation: the Fall itself, the Flood, and, 
now, the building of the tower — and is specifically tied to the prideful 
presumption of Eve (itself a “linguistic” sin, as Dante specifies, because based 
upon her colloquies with the serpent; I.vii.3-4; iv.2) — and to the exile of man 
from the original “patria,” Eden (I.vii.2). Most important, for our purposes, it is 


28 The implications for a possible reading of Dante in terms of “cultural construction of gender” 
are obvious (for discussion of this problem in the Commedia see Jacoff 1987, pp. 172-73 & 
Schnapp 1988). In this connection note the rejection of Eve as originator of language on 
grounds of her femaleness (1.ii.6; iv.2) and the insistence that Adam, who does found human 
speech, is “vir sine matre” (I.vi.1). 


202 Albert Russell Ascoli 


described as being the fruit of our sinful nature (““O semper natura nostra prona 
peccatis!” (I.vii.2)) and the attempt of man “arte sua non solum superare naturam 
sed etiam ipsum naturantem, qui Deus est” (I.vii.4), to overgo nature and “Deus 
naturans” by virtue of his art. Babel thus adds a key dimension to the art/nature 
opposition that at once clarifies and complicates its application in the case of the 
“vulgare” and “‘gramatica.” On the one hand, the asserted superiority of “natural” 
vernacular to “artificial grammar” finds an implicit grounding in this 
paradigmatic critique of Nimrod’s totalizing human art. On the other hand, we 
are forced to recognize that postlapsarian nature itself is an equivocal category at 
best, and in particular that human nature is irremediably corrupted. 

That corruption, we shall see better in the next section, plays itself out in 
the history of language consequent to the tertiary fall of Babel. And while these 
post-Babelic effects are not specifically assigned to “‘our sinful nature,” they are 
attributed to the fact that man is “instabilissimum et variabilissimum animal,” 
qualities that any medieval Christian would have seen as dating from the Fall. At 
this point, then, a de facto reversal of the opening claims has taken place — the 
vernacular continues to be “natural,” but now it is the corrupt nature of the 
postlapsarian world, while its “universality” is maintained only in the deep irony 
of a universal linguistic dispersal. 

At this point, not surprisingly, “gramatica” reenters the picture in a very 
different guise: ““Hinc [the variations in human language across time and space] 
moti sunt inventores gramatice facultatis: que quidem gramatica nichil aliud est 
quam quedam inalterabilis locutionis ydemptitas diversibus temporibus atque 
locis” (I.ix.11). This affirmation of grammar’s, that is Latin’s, power to arrest 
the Babelic dispersal, and two subsequent references that function rhetorically to 
transfer the prestige of “grammar” to the Italian vernacular and to its authors 
(I.x.1 & 2),29 imply that there is a second way to see the application of “artifice” 
to language: not just as a sign of Babelic presumption, but also a necessary 
“reparatio” against the corrupting effects of fallen nature and of the fallen human 
will. This argument, of course, is not made explicit in the De vulgari eloquentia, 
although it can be inferred from the analogous argument of Purg. XVI (itself a 
specification of a basic point of Christian doctrine), where Dante asserts the 


29 The sense of both passages is disputed, both as to the actual meaning of “gramatica” (see 
notes 23, 25, & 26 above) and as to the relationship, genetic or otherwise, that may exist 
between “Latin” and “Italian.” More generally on the question of whether the “vulgare” of “si” 
derives from Latin “gramatica” or whether “gramatica” is itself derived from a “vulgare” not 
unlike Italian, see D’Ovidio 1876, p. 74; Pagliaro, pp. 227-28; Vinay, pp. 243ff.; Grayson, pp. 
10-12 et passim; Mengaldo 1978, pp. 70-71; Pagani, p. 104 ef passim. One thing, at least, is 
clear: that Dante continues to see the two terms, vemacular and grammar, and the two tongues, 
Italian and Latin, in close relationship to one another, and that he is trading more or less 
directly on the cultural prestige of Latin to bolster his case for the illustrious vemacular. That 
the relation between them continues to be left ambiguous is unsurprising given his need both to 
discredit Latin and to transfer its prestige to Italian. 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 203 


necessity of placing imperial and ecclesiastical authorities over the fallen will 
which can no longer be trusted to choose the good “naturally.” 

The De vulgari eloquentia thus opens onto a vertiginous dialectic of 
“supplementation,” whereby, on the one hand, “nature” is the only answer to the 
presumption of Nimrod’s art, and, on the other, “art” is the only corrective to 
postlapsarian nature (Derrida, pp. 141-69; Ascoli 1987, p. 196 & n). It is in the 
face, then, of this particular “contradizione insanabile,"*° that Dante turns to the 
image of a “vulgare illustre” which, like “gramatica,” partially reverses the 
Babelic dispersal (it is the “One” to the many Italian dialects), but which also, 
imperceptibly and illogically, blends together “nature” and “art” in one language 
(Di Capua, p. 39; Corti 1981, pp. 59-61; and, especially Dragonetti, pp. 31-35). 
By inventing a transcendent and “synchronic” origin for the Italian vernaculars in 
the ideality of a quasi-divine “simplicissima substantiarum” he tacitly displaces 
their historical, “diachronic” original, the “ydioma tripharium” (I.viii.2; cf.viii.5) 
and removes that language from the flow of post-Babelic history, only to 
reinstantiate it in the language of the “curia” in exile and in his own poetry.*! 

It should now be evident that the first critical position outlined above, 
which sees the “vulgare illustre” as the logical and/or historical product of the 
original definition of vernacular in general cannot be maintained. Nor can the 
second, which assimilates the “vulgare illustre” to “gramatica,” unless 
“gramatica” is redefined in such a way as to accommodate logically both art and 
nature, historicity and transcendence. It is precisely this feat, however, which 
Maria Corti claims to have achieved in her recent study, Dante a un nuovo 
crocevia, which sets out to give historical and textual substance to an argument 
first advanced by Pio Rajna and Aristide Marigo and later developed by Roger 
Dragonetti (Pagani, pp. 39-86). In brief, the argument runs that alongside the 
intertwined meanings of “gramatica” as any empirical, “locutio regulata,” and as 
one such in particular, i.e., Latin, Dante introduces a third and for him more 
decisive sense taken from the so-called “speculative grammars” of radical 
Aristotelian thinkers such as Siger of Brabant and, especially, Boethius of Dacia 
(Marigo, pp. lvii-lxii; Dragonetti, pp. 40-41; Corti 1981, pp. 33ff.; Scaglione, 
pp. 33ff.). “Grammar” in this sense refers not to a language or a “positive” set of 
rules for language use, but instead to the “natural” and innate human faculty for 
the creation of languages that was “co-created” with Adam and rediscovered by 
the “inventores gramatice facultatis.” This faculty, so the argument goes, is the 
key to generating an “ideal” language, at once transcendent langue and immanent 


30 Mengaldo 1978, pp. 74 & 77, notes the ambiguity in Dante’s use of the term “ars” both 
positively and negatively. Cf. Vinay, pp. 247-48; Grayson, p. 20. 

31 Ags Mengaldo 1979, pp. 71-72 n. 5, observes, there is a slide in Dante’s use of this term — at 
first it refers to a tongue that ramified into Northem European, Southem European, and Greek 


(.viii.2); in its second appearance it is the tongue that ramifies into the tongues of “oc” “oil” 
and “si” (I.viii.5; ix.2). 


204 Albert Russell Ascoli 


parole, which recombines the “universality” and naturalness of “vernacular” with 
the “immutability” and order of “grammar” (in the first sense) and thus revives 
the qualities of prelapsarian, pre-Babelic language of Adam (Dragonetti, p. 23 et 
passim; Corti 1981, pp. 46-56 et passim; Hollander 1975, pp. 120 et passim; 
Brownlee, p. 601). This language, of course, would be the “vulgare illustre.” 
There are, however, a number of important problems with Corti’s discovery 
of a subterranean logic of “speculative grammar” that bridges the gap between 
vernacular and grammar as initially defined.*? The biggest obstacle to accepting 
her thesis is that she virtually ignores an element centrally present in Dante’s 
treatise that is at odds with the theories of the speculative grammarians and that 
makes the identification of the “vulgare illustre” with Adamic speech not only 
logically impossible, but also clearly an instance of prideful idolatry, namely, 
the Fall and its linguistic repetition in the Babelic confusio. The intrusion of 


32 Pagani, pp. 253-73; cf. Scaglione, pp. 34 ff. The principle problems are that: 1) Dante 
never, in De vulgari eloquentia or elsewhere, makes explicit the distinction that she finds 
implied throughout the treatise; 2) in De vulgari eloquentia “gramatica” refers unequivocally to 
Latin or “regular” languages generally on a number of occasions (1.i.3; xi.7; I.vii.6), while all 
of Corti’s proof texts for the presence of “speculative grammar” can be interpreted coherently if 
the more obvious reading is adopted (1.ix.11; x.1, 2; cf. Ivi.3 & 7); 3) even assuming that the 
“radical Aristotelians” are Dante’s “source” she does not take into account that Dante could be 
using someone else’s terminology in a way substantively different from its original context or 
that the pressures of Dante’s particular project could have transformed their categories beyond 
recognition. Serious questions can be raised conceming three of the passages that are most 
crucial to her argument. 1) She argues (pp. 37-38; cf. Marigo p. lxi n.2) that the “inventores 
gramatice facultatis” of I.ix.11 are the philosophical originators of language in general (whose 
“grammar” is that of natural vernaculars as well as languages of art), while the “gramatice 
positores” are those who explicitly codify the rules of this or that particular “grammar” (x.1, 2). 
But while there is clearly a parallel with Boethius’s terminology, it is also true that Dante does 
not juxtapose the “inventores” and the “positores” in a logical opposition but just leaves them 
in ambiguous proximity to one another (cf. Vinay, pp. 252-54); and he later uses the term 
“inventores” in a context (“cantionum inventores,” II.xiii.6) where there is no doubt those 
referred to are not the discoverers of “langue” (in this case the form of cantio in general) but the 
producers of parole (i.e., the authors of individual canzoni), 2) In I.x.2 the phrase “gramatice que 
comunis est” lends itself equally well to being read as the universal faculty of language 
production or to the common etymological relationship (genetic or not) of all the three 
“romance” languages to Latin (Corti, pp. 61-63)--and in any case the interpretation of the 
passage as a whole depends on the controversial “videtur/videntur” emendation (see Grayson, 
pp. 11-15; Mengaldo 1979, p. 87 n. 2]. 3) By the same token, the “certam formam locutionis” 
(I.vi.3) given by God to Adam can be seen as either the abstract power to invent languages 
(Corti’s reading, p. 47), or a specific language, i.e. Hebrew. By later singling out Hebrew as the 
“language of grace” (I.vi.7) and by omitting any reference to the naming of animals (which 
would be evidence of Adam’s “invention” of language; see note 53 below), Dante seems to point 
us in the direction of the second alternative. Only I.vi.7 “fuit ergo hebraicum ydioma illud quod 
primi loquentis labia fabricarunt” seems to give strong evidence for the first alternative (Corti, 
pp. 49-50), although again later usage suggests that “fabricare” can refer to the making of 
individual verbal objects as well as to the invention of a language tout court (cf. II.viii.4-5). Cf. 
Ewert, p. 359. 





Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 205 


postlapsarian historicity, the contingency and corruption of both the human 
mind and its linguistic products, disrupt the proto-structuralist ideal of a 
transcendent langue which generates immanent parole.*? In fact, as Dante knows 
very well, and Corti too for that matter, it is precisely the historicizing of 
language at the Fall and at Babel that makes it impossible to recover any truly 
“natural and universal” “forma locutionis” without passing through the fallen 
parole of historical languages and specific individuals,** in this case, as we shall 
see, of one individual’s language in particular. 

Corti’s “structuralist” and/or “Averroist” reading of the “vulgare illustre” 
does find partial justification in the fact that according to Dante the “vulgare 
illustre” is not immanently present in any of Italy’s myriad municipal dialects 
but is instead the “transcendent” template upon which all Italian dialects are 
modeled. And her account, and even more Dragonetti’s (especially pp. 44-46; 
Marigo, p. lxxv), certainly accounts for the ideal, transhistorical imagery that 
envelops the “cardinal, courtly, curial, illustrious vernacular”: it is a “panther,” 
an animal glossed in the Bestiaries as a figure of Christ (I.xvi.1 and Mengaldo’s 
n. 1; Smarr, pp. 112-15 and nn.), the ubiquity of whose perfumed breath, 
“ubique et necubi” (I.xvi.1), mirrors a defining quality of the transcendent God; 
and its non-local unity is directly comparable to God as “simplicissima 
substantiarum” (xvi.5), as we have already seen. On the other hand, as we have 
also already seen, it is said to have an immanent historical existence in the past 
actuality of an Italian imperial court (that of Frederick II; I.xii.3-5) and to the 
continuing present possibility of one (I.xviii.2-3; Pagani, pp. 246-47). This 
possibility, though not realized now, is also not purely ideal: instead it exists 


33 Although Corti 1981 does not make the analogy with the Saussurian model explicit, her 
description of the relationship between the language producing faculty and the empirical 
instances of language themselves make it clear enough. Moreover, she explicitly shows how 
the radical Aristotelian, or Averroist, notion of language runs parallel to, and is a consequence 
of, the opposition between impersonal “possible intellect” and the practical exercise of 
intelligence by individuals (pp. 48, 66). Paradoxically, then, Corti’s account is a development 
of Bruno Nardi’s reading of Dantean Averroism, even though Nardi himself (1942) was perhaps 
the strongest voice on the side of seeing the “vulgare illustre” as a radically historical language, 
in opposition to the “dead” ideality of Latin. 

34 Although Corti 1978 is intensely aware of the novelty and importance of Dante’s 
representation of Babel, its radical historicity (see n. 37 below), in her 1981 account of its place 
in the treatise she first skips over it as a merely “formal” bow to a theocentric culture (pp. 40- 
41, 46). She does see the Adamic (universal and natural) “vulgare illustre” as specifically a 
remedy to the fallen non-universality of post-Babelic grammars (p. 56 ef passim) but she does 
not deal directly with the question of how either Dante or his new language are to escape such 
fallenness. Paradoxically, the Babel typology is the stumbling block to the position opposite 
to Corti’s, that of the “vulgare illustre” as a sheerly historical, political entity — as can be seen 
in Pagani’s strenuous and largely unsuccessful efforts (ch.4) to discredit Mengaldo’s claim 
(1979, esp. p. 5) that “theological” concerns predominate in the De vulgari eloquentia. In other 
words, the “negative theology” of Babel prevents us from conceiving of the “vulgare illustre” in 
either sheerly contingent and historical or in purely rational and ideal terms. 


206 Albert Russell Ascoli 


but exists, as it were, in exile, on a pilgrimage, among the lowly and 
throughout the Italian peninsula: “hinc etiam est quod nostrum illustre velut 
acola peregrinatur et in humilibus hospitatur asilis, cum aula vacemus” 
(I.xviii.3). And in its exile, the “vulgare illustre” echoes and repeats the primal 
exile which, as Dante reminded us earlier in the De vulgari eloquentia, is the 
essential experience of postlapsarian existence, and which the Babelic dispersal 
itself repeated (I.vii.2 “exulabas a patria”; see 3-4). 

What then are we to do if neither a “historicist” nor an “idealist” accounting 
of the “vulgare illustre” can successfully reduce its complexities and its 
contradictions, and if no “logical” path can be found to square it with the initial 
opposition of “vulgare” to “gramatica”? My answer, again, would be that the 
“logic” of the De vulgari eloquentia is the logic of Dante’s desire to reconcile the 
contingent “necessities” of historical reality (a burgeoning vernacular culture in 
early Trecento Italy) with culturally mandated definitions of poetic auctoritas as 
impersonal, ancient, and non-vernacular (i.e., Latin). Its elisions, contradictions, 
and ambiguities, then, are the products of a complex rhetorical strategy that must 
collapse the opposition between “vernacular” and “grammar,” Dante and the 
Latin auctores, without admitting that it is doing so and thereby discrediting 
itself completely. The value of Corti’s work is to have identified the desire for a 
language whose authority transcends historicity, and with it individuality — but 
what it omits is the recognition that, in the terms of the De vulgari eloquentia, 
as in those of the Convivio, such a transcendence can be imagined, and even 
rhetorically asserted, but it can never truly be achieved. 


iii. Individuality and Universality 


Having tried to confront the question of the “vulgare illustre,” as it were, from 
inside the “logical” and detached perspective of the prose “‘nos,” it is time to ask 
some more probing questions about what the other Dante, the “friend of Cino,” 
has at stake qua individual vernacular author — and how those stakes make 
themselves felt in the rhetorical unfolding of the De vulgari eloquentia. The 
problem is, however, that this treatise is as careful to avoid bringing Dante’s 
status gua poet within the confines of its explicit, “rational,” meditations as 
Book I of the Convivio is open in confronting his vernacular authorship. Or 
rather, as in Book iV of the Convivio, apparently “objective” and impersonal 
philosophical meditations on auctoritas and nobilitas prove to have a crucial 
bearing on Dante’s own predicament as defined in Book I, so here the abstract, 
“rational” opposition of universality vs. individuality plays a crucial role in the 
definition and defense of the vernacular language, only gradually and implicitly 
opening onto the problematic situation of Dante himself as individual author and 


Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 207 


of the language which is finally “proper” to him alone.*° 

In Book I of the Convivio, Dante stresses the personal, familial, individual 
quality of his attachment to the otherwise “inferior” vernacular, an emphasis 
perfectly in keeping with his earlier exploration of the problematics of authorial 
self-representation. Here, on the other hand, both the “vulgare” in general and the 
“vulgare illustre” in particular are remarkable for a “universality” which is 
specifically the opposite of “individuality.” The former is presented as the tongue 
which “totus orbis ipsa perfruitur” (1.i.4) as against the “locutio secundaria” 
which “ad habitum vero huius pauci perveniunt” (1.1.3) and is thus limited to a 
few individuals. The only traces of “familiarity” in this redefinition of the 
vernacular are the references to its origins in the imitation of one’s “nutricem” 
(1.1.2) and to its use even by “parvuli et mulieres” (I.i.1) — and because these 
references are generic (not specifically connected to Dante himself) they too 
simply serve to emphasize its impersonal universality. The latter gathers the 
“many” individual dialects of the Italian peninsula into a single, unifying, Italian 
language: “Que quidem nobilissima sunt earum que Latinorum sunt actiones, hec 
nullius civitatis Ytalie propria sunt, et in omnibus comunia sunt” (xvi.4). This 
idea that it is a universal (“common to all”) not an individual (“proper to none”) 
language is repeatedly stressed (I.xvi. 4 and 6; xviii.2), culminating in the 
assertion that it is to be found “‘ubique et necubi,” like God, everywhere and 
nowhere (I.xvi.1). 

As with the “vernacular”/‘grammar” opposition, the key to understanding 
this dialectic is Dante’s retelling of the Babel story. The specific pertinence of 
Babel to the thematics of individuality and universality in language should be 
very clear. Like Eve in her abusive colloquy with the serpent, leading to the 
definitive act of corrupted and corrupting will, Nimrod personally embodies the 
presumption of the prideful human will asserting autonomy from, even 
superiority to, its creator (I.iv.2-3; vi.4; vii.3-4). The radically isolating 
individualism of such willful disobedience is then embodied in the “confusion of 
tongues,” which in its logical extreme leads to a chaotic one man, one language 
equation which De vulgari eloquentia only implies, but which explicitly appears 
in Dante’s depiction of Nimrod in /nf. XXXI.77-81: “questi € Nembrotto per lo 
cui mal coto / pur un linguaggio nel mondo non s’usa./ Lascianlo stare e non 
parliamo a voto;/ché cosi @ a ciascun linguaggio / come ’1 suo ad altrui, ch’a 
nullo é noto.”°6 

In the version of the story rehearsed in the De vulgari eloquentia, Nimrod’s 
presumption is again the focal point, but the punishment stops short of its 


35 See Corti 1981, especially pp. 56ff., for an excellent account of what, philosophically and 
linguistically, if not personally and rhetorically, is at stake for Dante in this opposition. 

36 A number of critics have signaled the Babel-Nimrod link between De vulgari eloquentia and 
Inf. XXXI, e.g., Dragonetti, p. 25; Dronke 1981, p. 38. See Hollander 1975 for other echoes of 
De vulgari eloquentia in Inferno. See n. 56. 


208 Albert Russell Ascoli 


logical conclusion. Instead Dante offers the innovative account of the 
punishment by “professional” groups that worked on the tower: “Solis etenim in 
uno convenientibus actu eadem loquela remansit: puta cunctis architectoribus 
una, cunctis saxa volventibus una, cunctis ea parantibus una; et sic de singulis 
operantibus accidit. Quot quot autem exercitii varietates tendebant ad opus, tot 
tot ydiomatibus tunc genus humanum disiungitur; et quanto excellentius 
exercebant, tanto rudius nunc barbariusque locuntur” (I.vii.7).37 Just which 
“guild” spoke the language that became Italian is not mentioned, although the 
text, we will see, later gives a hint. Similarly, just why Dante does not ever 
explicitly arrive at the ultimate Babelic equation of one man to one language 
may also become clearer later on. 

Throughout the text, in any case, Dante stresses that the tertiary Fall of 
Babel creates a historical situation where the “dispersio” and variety of dialects 
approach as a limit a condition of radical individuality and incommunicability. 
Every little town, each “Petramala,” thinks its “proprium vulgare” is the best 
way of speaking (I.vi.2). In fact the post-Babelic world sees an ever widening 
series of divisions and subdivisions of languages and dialects, from the three 
“European” languages, to the three southern European languages, to the fourteen 
regional dialects of “‘si,” finally culminating in the thousands of subvernaculars 
of the Italian peninsula where even citizen within a single city may speak 
radically different tongues (I.ix.4-5) and where each family may have its own 
vernacular (I.xix.3). 

The problematic linking of language and individual will in the treatise does 
not, however, simply come from the traditional doctrinal associations of the Fall 
with the corruption of the will and of Babel with the Fall. In fact, the role of the 
will both in shaping and corrupting language is taken as an explicit focus 
throughout the treatise and first of all in the philosophical definition given to 
language near its beginning. Dante explains why human beings alone among 
God’s creatures need to use language: “Cum igitur homo non nature instinctu, 
sed ratione moveatur, et ipsa ratio vel circa discretionem vel circa iudicium vel 
circa electionem diversificetur in singulis, adeo ut fere quilibet sua propria specie 
videatur gaudere . . .” (1.iii.1). Our hybrid nature, as corporeal and sensual 
creatures who are also rational, makes us so different from one another (“in 
singulis”) in our judgments and choices that without a common vehicle of 
communication the gap between us will be such as that each individual will be, 
as we Saw earlier, “a species unto itself.” That vehicle is precisely the linguistic 


37 See D’Ovidio 1931; Pagliaro, pp. 224-25; Corti 1978; Mengaldo 1979, pp. 61-62 n. 5. 
Although I certainly agree with Corti that Dante’s reading of Babel is historically specific and 
part of a conservative Christian critique of burgeoning urbanism, she is clearly wrong to 
suggest that Christian typology had not previously identified Babel with historical cities and 
the secular world. From at least the Civitas Dei on, Christian writers had in fact been 
extraordinarily adroit at folding earthly cities into the schematics of “salvation history,” 
particularly the Babel/Jerusalem dyad. 





Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 209 


sign whose composite character, at once rational and sensible, matches our own 
dual nature — translating intellectual concepts into a sensual medium from 
which they can be retranslated by another person (L.iii.1). 

Thus language is a necessary remedy for the limits of individual human 
reason — and from the three aspects of rational activity specified (discretio, 
iudicium, electio), it is clear that what makes language particularly necessary is 
the human characteristic of choice guided by knowledge — the “arbitrariness” of 
human individuality which is the sine qua non of our free will (“arbitrium”).** 
And we also learn that language itself is subject to the rational will: “in quantum 
aliquid significare videtur ad placitum” (1.iii.3), that is “at the pleasure” of the 
one who uses it (Nardi 1942, pp. 174-75; 186-87; Pagliaro, p. 223). Language, 
then, is for Dante, as many critics have noticed over the years, a paradigmatically 
social phenomenon, whose task is to transcend the arbitrariness of the free 
exercise of the rational will unchecked by community.*? Moreover, and this is 
crucial for understanding the limits of Dante’s claims to stand objectively outside 
his subject, the use of language binds reason to the will and to the world of 
corporeal contingency, and thus continuously subjects it to individuality and 
historicity (cf. Pagliaro, pp. 219 et passim). 

Dante’s description of the post-Babelic linguistic situation then returns 
explicitly to the problem of the individual will, now in terms that assign it overt 
responsibility for the “confusio.” Dante traces out the fate of a post-Babelic 
language which was “unum .. . a principio confusionis” (I.ix.2) and which was 
“a nostro beneplacito reparata” after Babel (ix.6), but which has now been divided 
into many tongues “per locorum temporumque distantias” (ix.6-7), assigning 
responsibility to man, who is by nature “instabilissimum atque variabilissimum 
animal” (ix.6), and specifically to the changes in all his “mores et habitus” 
which are borne of “humanis beneplacitis” (ix.10). Once again the human 
“beneplacitum,” or assertion of will, is responsible both for (re)constituting 
language and for subjecting it to individual whims. 

Dante then makes his claim that it was specifically to ward off the harm 
done by “the will of individuals” that the regulated, unvarying language of 
grammar was invented: “Adinvenerunt ergo illam ne, propter variationem 
sermonis arbitrio singularium fluitantis, vel nullo modo vel saltim imperfecte 
antiquorum actingeremus autoritates et gesta.. .” (ix.11). And, in light of what 
we Said earlier about the character of auctoritas, it should not surprise that this 


38 On “arbitrium” in the De vulgari eloquentia, see D’Ovidio 1876, p. 83; and especially Nardi 

1942, pp. 186-187. On the importance of “discretio,” that is, the action of the rational will, in 
the De vulgari eloquentia see Di Capua, pp. 53ff.; Dragonetti, p. 65. For the general problem of 
the mediation between reason and will through the closely related categories of “iudicium” 
(“giudizio”) and/or will in terms relevant to this discussion of Dante see Kahn; Ascoli 1987, pp. 
222-224 et passim. 

39 Cf. Di Capua, p. 37 et passim; Dragonetti, pp. 13-14; Corti 1978, pp. 251-256; Castaldo. 


210 Albert Russell Ascoli 


“impersonal” language, free from the arbitrary will of individuals, should be the 
vehicle for gaining access to the ancient “‘autoritates.” 

By now it is certainly clear why Dante would want to present his discourse 
on the vernacular as disinterestedly and impersonally as possible and to avoid the 
impression that the language he is discussing could be in any sense a product of 
his own efforts or identifiable with his poetic oeuvre. In Dante’s own terms, 
language which is the product of “individual will,” the “property” of a personal 
author, risks Babelic presumption and uncommunicative isolation. Thus, if he is 
to assert himself as author, it is only through the oblique device of making 
himself the humble exemplar and representative of a language which is radically 
impersonal and far greater than himself (i.e., by making himself its instrument 
rather than the reverse). If he does not take the vernacular on this detour outside 
of history and personality on the way to reappropriating it as his own personal 
and historical instrument, his readers might suspect that rather than Dante being 
“authorized” by the illustrious vernacular, the illustrious vernacular is itself a 
“fictio,” the invention of Dante’s writing. In other words, “the fiction is that it 
is not a fiction.” 

It is not then surprising that the “vulgare illustre,” which, like “gramatica,” 
counters the Babelic dispersal, should also be characterized by its tendency to 
“universality,” to gathering the “many” individual dialects of the Italian 
peninsula into a single, unifying, Italian language. From all that we have seen 
so far, it is clear that Dante’s main effort in identifying and defining the 
“panther” is to remove it from the flow of post-Babelic history, thereby 
exempting it from concomitant subjection to the “arbitrium” of individuals. And 
even when he does restore to it a qualified historical existence from its 
transcendent heights, it is first of all as the language of the “aula,” of the “rex” 
who is the personification of the impersonal “body politic,” who speaks not for 
himself but for his nation, and of the elite “curia” that surrounds him. In fact, far 
from being subject to the willful vagaries of those who deploy it, the “vulgare 
illustre” is given the power (“potestas”) to shape and teach the wills of those 
who encounter it (xvii.4), and thus has an authority related to that of the 
Emperor, whose dominion is precisely over the human will (Convivio IV.ix.4- 
10). 

Nonetheless, just as the “transhistorical” illustrious vernacular cannot escape 
the fallen, historical condition of an existence “in exile” from the court which is 
its proper home, so the “impersonal” “vulgare illustre,” “common to all, proper 
to none,” is in the end identified with precise individuals: with the members of 
the “curia,” victims of a Babel-like “dispersio” that has scattered them 
throughout Italy. More specifically, and repeatedly, it is instanced by Cino da 
Pistoia, and, of course, his exiled friend (I.x.2; I.xvii.3; et passim). If these 
exemplary “impersonations” of the “vulgare illustre” do awaken the suspicion 
that its “impersonal” claims to Edenic and pre-Babelic universality and ideality 
are really meant to conceal the contingency and individuality of its existence, 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 211 


nonetheless they do not by themselves necessarily compromise it, since they can 
still be relegated to the status of examples, of the immanent parole that derives 
from a transcendent langue. 

It would be a different matter, however, if we found the “stain” of historical 
individuality already embedded within the ostensibly “rational” and transcendent 
definition of the “vulgare illustre” as Christ-like “panther” which, as 
“simplicissima substantiarum,” mirrors God’s transcendent unity and ubiquity, 
restoring to human language an Edenic “naturalness” and “universality.” And 
that, in fact, is precisely what we do find. The giveaway comes in the elaborate 
image of the illustrious vernacular as a pilgrim wandering homeless throughout 
the Italian peninsula, dependent for “asylum” on the kindness of strangers. We 
have previously suggested that the motif of exile in itself recalls both the Fall 
and the Babelic dispersal — and thus it is a dangerous thing to suggest that the 
same condition characterizes a language whose function is to reverse Babel and 
restore Eden. The more immediate allusion, however, is to the historical fact of 
Dante’s own exile, which was explicitly mentioned in the preceding chapter 
(I.xvii; cf. Mengaldo 1979, p. 137n7). In other words, the “vulgare illustre” is, 
on the one hand, figuratively equated with Deity, the “simplicissima 
substantiarum,” the Author of authors, and, on the other, with a human author, 
Dante himself. 

The first point to make is that this identification serves precisely the same 
function of indirectly “authorizing” Dante as did the apparently impersonal 
etymology of the poetic “‘autore” as “binder of words” in the Convivio, IV.vi.34 
(although again with the same evident fear that the claim can only be made 
obliquely and imaginatively, that it would not stand up to rational and explicit 
scrutiny). Dante had, after all, first grounded his authority to speak rationally and 
dispassionately about the vernacular on the fact of his exile, which separates him 
from all local attachments and prejudices (1.vi.3). In fact, it is certainly the case 
that more than any other cultural figure of his time, the exiled, errant Dante was 
in a position to have experienced and appreciated the full variety of local dialects, 
and to have effected the syncretic selection of the best from each by which he 
says one arrives at a knowledge of the “illustrious vernacular.” But in this 
imaginative identification, Dante is not simply an exemplary, even privileged 
historical knower and user of the “vulgare iliustre”: he is the “illustrious 
vernacular,” he oxymoronically personifies its authority and nobility, even as he 
sets out to define that authority in transpersonal terms. And he goes even farther, 
because the identification with the “simplicissima substantiarum” is also an 
analogical identification with the “Most High.” If post-Babelic history renders 
any identification between individual and language corrupt, then Dante will look 
beyond history for a theological and transcendent authority with which to infuse 
himself and his language. Thus, just as in the Convivio, Dante tries to prop his 
personal, unauthorized mission of “binding together” Italian into an authoritative 
language against God as Word, as Alpha and O that binds the universe together 


212 Albert Russell Ascoli 


with love in a single volume, emerging as a living linguistic oxymoron: “Ttalian 
personified.” 

On the other hand, it could not be clearer that this condition of exile shared 
by author and language, along with the tacit equivalence between a language and 
a single person, points not toward prelapsarian Eden, but toward Babel, that 
monument to the perversity of individual will, the starting point of the exilic 
dispersion and wandering of humans and their languages. The first reference to 
Dante’s exile, for all its positive implications, nonetheless also immediately 
precedes the reference to the exile of man from Eden (1.vii.2), which in turn 
introduces the story of Babel and with it the “confusio,” the radical historicity 
and individuality of language. 

In short, Dante’s “philosophical, rational” argument (1.1x.1; xvi.1) for the 
“impersonal” authority of the “vulgare illustre” is countered both by his 
rhetorical situation as author of the treatise (and, as the “friend of Cino,” of 
vernacular poetry) and by an imaginative counter-logic that subtends his 
reasoning. That rhetorical strategy, that imaginative logic, are, however, 
responses to an impossible predicament that reason could not resolve: essentially 
conflicting desires for 1) a language that transcends history and individual 
personality; 2) a language that confers upon the historical person, Dante, his 
identity as a truly “Italian” poet who speaks, even in exile, with the political and 
intellectual authority of the “aula” and the “curia” behind him. Thus, if Dante is 
to establish the transpersonal authority of the “vulgare illustre” he must avoid all 
perception that it is properly “his” language; but to displace such authority onto 
himself he risks making precisely that claim. At worst, Dante is in danger of 
seeming to be a Nimrod who equates himself and his works with Deity.*° At 
best, his relation to the “vulgare illustre” is deeply ambivalent: suspended 
between ideality and historicity, between Eden, where Hebrew is Adam’s 
personal language, and Babel, where Nimrod became a language and a “‘species” 
unto himself. 


iv. The Poet’s Language 


This is, however, still not the end of the story. At the close of Book I, Dante 
sets aside as if complete the project of defining the “authoritative” Italian 
vernacular. In Book II, he turns to focus on what seems to be only one form, 
albeit the highest one, of that illustrious vernacular: the “high,” or “tragic,” 
poetic style, along with the subjects (war, love, virtue) and the vernacular form 
(“cantio,” or canzone) most suitable to it. The De vulgari eloquentia can in fact 


40 Welliver, p. 13, suggests that Dante as hunter of the panther is parallel to Nimrod the 
“mighty hunter,” although Dante does not in fact explicitly mention this traditional attribute of 
the architect of Babel. 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 213 


be taken together with the Convivio, as part of a single, elaborate meditation on 
and defense of the “canzone” as poetic form (one which is, then, abandoned in the 
move to the “terza rima” of the Commedia) (cf. Mengaldo 1978, p. 15). Needless 
to say, however, the foci of the two works are very different. In Convivio the 
“pinding” formalism of the poet is posited and given thematic prominence 
without the specifications of the De vulgari eloquentia, and the emphasis falls on 
looking beneath the poetic surface to discover an allegorical content of ethical 
philosophy, with an apparent trivialization of poetry per se (Mazzotta 1986, p. 
148). By contrast, in the De vulgari eloquentia the “decorous” intersection of 
form with meaning (“convenientia”) is posited without much elaboration, while 
the real energy of Book II is concentrated on describing the formal attributes 
(construction, vocabulary, verse forms, etc.) of the poetic surface. 

The question remains as to whether or not the De vulgari eloquentia shares 
the Convivio’s anxious sense of poetry (epitomized by the “cantio”) as a 
problematic discourse and its need to appropriate a special authority for itself and 
its authors. At first the answer seems to be a resounding no. In Book I the status 
of poetry vis-a-vis language is not directly considered, but poets are given a 
privileged role in exemplifying the “vulgare illustre.” In particular, the constant 
allusions to Cino and “‘his friend” give Dante and what would come to be known 
as “dolce stil nuovo” poetry a leading role in defining the illustrious vernacular. 
In I.x.2 Cino and friend are identified with the “vulgares eloquentes” who 
“dulcius subtiliusque poetati vulgariter sunt;” in !.xvii.3, they are again indicated 
as those who “[mJagistratu quidem sublimatum [vulgare illustre]”; and, in the 
last chapter of Book I, the illustrious vernacular is defined as that which “usi 
sunt doctores illustres qui lingua vulgari poetati sunt in Ytalia” (I.xix.1). 

In Book II, where Dante narrows his focus to the specific problem of poetic 
style, he insists that the illustrious vernacular can be used in prose and poetry 
alike, but that prose authors (“prosaycantes”) receive knowledge of it from the 
poets (“avientibus”) and not the reverse, giving the poets primacy (II.i.1).4! 
Moreover, in Book II the problem of will is again repeatedly raised, now with 
specific reference to the relationship of the individual poet with his poetic art, 
but in such a way as to suggest that all the linguistic anxiety of Book I has been 
somehow dissipated, and the conflicts inherent in the definition of the “vulgare 
illustre” left behind when we turn to the poetry, to the tragic style, and to the 
“cantio.” 

As Mengaldo has shown, Dante’s definition of the “decorum” essential to 
poetry is in some ways a sharp departure from the usage of the “poetriae” and the 
rhetorical tradition (1978, pp. 57-59). In addition to the traditional insistence on 
the adequation of style to subject matter (to which we will return in a moment), 


41 On Dante's shifting place in the rhetorical “querelles” between prose and poetry, see 
Mengaldo 1978, pp. 49-51. On the hypothesis that book III of the De vulgari eloquentia would 
have been dedicated to prose, see Rajna, pp. 85-86, and Mengaldo 1979, p. 142 n. 1. 


214 Albert Russell Ascoli 


Dante first of all calls for decorous convenientia between “optimum vulgare” and 
the moral and intellectual character of the individual poet who uses it: 


Exigit ergo istud [vulgare illustre] sibi consimiles viros, quemadmodum alii nostri 
mores et habitus: . . . sic et hoc excellentes ingenio et scientia querit, et alios 
aspematur, ut per inferiora patebit. Nam quicquid nobis convenit, vel gratia generis, 
vel speciei, vel individui convenit. . . . Sed hoc non convenit nobis gratia generis, 
quia etiam brutis conveniret; nec gratia speciei, qui cunctis hominibus esset 
conveniens . . . : convenit ergo individui gratia. Sed nichil individuo convenit nisi 
per proprias dignitates.... 

(De vulgari eloquentia I1.i.5-7) 


Now, for a dramatic change, it is the intersection of individual personality and 
poetic language that is openly desired (Mengaldo 1978, p. 90), where once the 
effort was precisely to establish a language entirely free from the “arbitrium 
singularium.” 

Even more striking, from our perspective, is the subsequent passage in 
which Dante, now treating stylistic decorum in the more “traditional” sense of 
correspondence between form and content, defines the three subjects of the high, 
“tragic” style as corresponding to the “three souls” that are in humans (II.ii.6). 
This second form of decorum is clearly related to the first, since in both cases 
style is required to conform to the qualities of the human soul, although the 
emphasis shifts from the “empirical” to the “ideal” individual. The greatest of the 
three souls, of course, is the “rational” soul, whose concern is the “honestum,” 
and whose equivalent poetic subject matter is therefore “‘virtus”: 


Quare hec tria, salus videlicet, venus et virtus, apparent esse illa magnalia que sint 
maxime pertractanda, hoc est ea que maxime sunt ad ista, ut armorum probitas, amoris 
accensio et directio voluntatis. Circa que sola, si bene recolimus, illustres viros 
invenimus vulgariter poetasse, scilicet . . . Cynum Pistoriensem amorem, amicum 
eius rectitudinem. 

(De vulgari eloquentia I1.ii.7-8) 


Now the noblest subject of the noblest poetic style becomes the proper direction 
of the will, and the example par excellence of one who has written such poetry is 
none other than “the friend of Cino,” who, we infer from the earlier passage, 
must be a man of sufficient personal luster to match the greatness of the 
“vulgare illustre” and to exemplify the “directio voluntatis” his poetry will teach. 

Most extraordinary of all, however, is that when Dante finally arrives at the 
treatment of the “cantio” which is the most excellent form of the most excellent 
style in the most excellent language, he suddenly and permanently ceases to refer 
to himself gua poet in the third person and becomes the first-person subject of 
poetry: “Dicimus ergo quod cantio, in quantum per superexcellentiam dicitur, ut 
et nos querimus, est equalium stantiarum sine responsorio ad unam sententiam 











Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 215 


tragica coniugatio, ut nos ostendimus cum dicimus: ‘Donne che avete intelletto 
d’amore’” (II.viii.8). The repetition of “dicimus” at either end of the phrase 
emphasizes how the split between the prosaic, “grammarian,” Dante, who writes 
the treatise in Latin and the poetic Dante who (as synecdochic representative of 
the vernacular tradition) is its subject, has been rhetorically bridged by a shared 
personal pronoun, whose pluralness is now magisterial, rather than 
schizophrenic.*? And Dante will cite himself seven more times in the De vulgari 
eloquentia (II.x.2; xi.5, 7, 8; xii.3; xiii.2,13), each time using the “nos,” just as 
in all prior references he had used the third person singular. And the key to 
understanding why these remarkable shifts take place — why Dante’s personal 
authority emerges now, even as the value of individual will is recuperated — is 
to see that this, chapter viii and following, is the point in the treatise when 
Dante’s prosaic subject matter most closely coincides with his poetic talents — 
when he is not talking about language in general, or the “vulgare illustre” more 
particularly, or even about the range of poetic styles — but only about a single, 
privileged form, the “cantio.” 

It is here, remarkably, that the treatise for the first time explicitly 
thematizes the problem of “autoritate” and of the poetic “autore.” The new 
situation is clear in a passage that occurs in close proximity to the densest 
cluster of Dante’s new first-person self-references (II.x-xi): 


Vide ergo, lector, quanta licentia data sit cantiones poetantibus, et considera cuius rei 
causa tam largum arbitrium usus sibi asciverit; et si recto calle ratio te duxerit, videbis 
autoritatis dignitate sola quod dicimus esse concessum. 

(De vulgari eloquentia II.x.5) 


“Arbitrium” and “autoritate,” “licentia” and “ratio,” now peacefully coexist, if 
only in the poetic act of composing the “cantio” as poetic form. 

In the Convivio, IV.vi.3-4, the poetic “autore,” the “binder of words,” 
whose name derives from “avieo,” is separated, by definition, from the 
philosophical (and political) “‘autore” (from “‘autentim") “degno di fede e di 
obbedienza,” in a move designed, paradoxically, to appropriate for Dante’s poetry 
the truth of philosopher and its power to guide the actions of princes. In chapter 
viii of the De vulgari eloquentia, Book II, the poetic “‘autore,” finally resurfaces, 
not in principle but in practice, not on the margins, but at the center of Dante’s 
discourse. This time no etymology is explicitly given, but the language of the 
text makes it clear that Dante has in mind two of the medieval etymologies. In 
the first instance, the “autore” of the “‘cantio” clearly is the medieval “actor, from 
“agere,” “to do, to make,” whose name stresses his direct agency in constructing 


42 while Mengaldo 1978, pp. 108-10, does not note the grammatical shift he does observe a 
corresponding phenomenon, the abandonment late in Book II of Cino as Dante’s constant 
verbal companion for Guido Cavalcanti. 


216 Albert Russell Ascoli 


the work, rather than any claims to the truth and force of that work, the “faith 
and obedience” it might command (Chenu 1927; Ascoli 1987, p. 25). The 
chapter as a whole insists upon the personal act of constructing, of “fabricating,” 
the canzone (“fabricatur ab autore suo” II.viii.4; 5) and even reminds us that the 
poem is said to be the property of its maker, rather than its performers 
(“nunquam dicimus ‘Hec est cantio Petri’ eo quod ipsam proferat, sed eo quod 
fabricaverit illam” II.viii.4).43 And this “artisanal” and “personal” definition of 
the “autore” is implicitly brought within the definition of the poet as “binder of 
words” by a metaphorics of formal “ligature” that introduces and closes this 
decisive chapter, perhaps reminding us as well that Dante opened Book II by 
referring to poets as “avientibus,” again from the rare verb “avieo” (Dragonetti, 
p. 53). These two metaphors, of “building” and of “binding” were used in the 
Convivio and earlier in the De vulgari eloquentia to refer to the formation of 
language itself as a quasi-divine activity of creation (see especially Convivio 
I.xiii.6-7; De vulgari eloquentia I.vi.7), but are now localized in the formal 
construction of the “‘cantio,” defined as “fabricatio verborum armonizatorum” 
(II.viii.5). 

We are now in a position better to account for two crucial Dantean 
“contradizioni,” which turn out to be intimately related. The first is the problem 
of why De vulgari eloquentia I struggles so desperately to keep individuality in 
general, and the first person Dante in particular, from being openly identified 
with the “vulgare illustre,” while in Book II Dante comfortably assumes an 
oxymoronically personal authority as vernacular poet. The second is the obvious 
shift in attitudes toward poetic authority from the Convivio to the De vulgari 
eloquentia, Book II: the former explicitly dismissing the poetic “autore” as 
irrelevant to its concerns while betraying a deep anxiety about the status of 
poetry; the latter equally explicit in its non-anxious affirmation of poetic 
authorship. 


43 Dante makes here an important distinction between active and passive authorship 
(Dragonetti, p. 73), between the one who composes, and the one who performs, the work, a 
distinction which can be traced back as far as Plato’s Jon. At the same time he parallels this 
opposition to one between active and passive readership (II.viii.3-4). Together the two 
distinctions take us far in the direction of understanding the Casella episode in Purgatorio where 
the “active” author of the “cantio” “Amor che ne la mente mi ragiona” (cited two chapters earlier 
in De vulgari eloquentia II.vi.6) becomes the “passive” reader of a “passive” performance of the 
text. In this sense, then, Purg. II can be seen as constituting not only a palinodic rejection of 
the “philosophical” poetry of the Convivio, but also of the celebration of the “cantio” form in 
De vulgari eloquentia. 

44 11 viii.1-2: “Preparatis fustibus torquibus ad fascem, nunc fasciandi tempus incumbit. Sed quia 
cuiuslibet operis cognitio precedere debet operationem, velut signum ante ammissionem sagipte 
vel iaculi, primo et principaliter qui sit iste fascis quem fasciare intendimus videamus”; and 
viii.9: “Satis etiam patere videtur quid intelligimus cum cantionem vocamus, et per consequens 
quid sit ille fascis quem ligare molimur.” Cf. Lxi.4; ILiii.2; iv.6; and Convivio I.xiii.6-7; 
IV.vi.3-4. 





| 


| 
| 


Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 217 


The point to make, I think, is that the “success” of Book II is actually 
predicated upon the resigned acceptance of a larger “failure” in Book I: a failure to 
achieve the same appropriation of political, philosophical, and, ultimately, 
theological authority that he aimed at in the Convivio, Book IV. This failure, as 
we have seen earlier, is determined by Dante’s tortuous confrontation with his 
own, his language’s and his country’s irreducible and irremediable historicity. 
Recognition of failure may reduce the “vulgare illustre” from the legitimate 
vehicle of political power and philosophical truth to the language of a single 
class of persons, the poets, and, in fact, to a unique individual poet, Dante, but 
at the same time it frees the poet to assert openly a limited personal authority as 
historical “actor.” 

The long standing debate in Italian criticism over whether the treatise is 
truly concerned with the social-political reality of Italian language or merely 
with a poetic style proper to a small group of writers,*> not only reflects the 
shift in focus from Book I to Book II, but in fact points to a genuine 
ambivalence in the way Book I treats the relationship between the “vulgare 
illustre” and the poetic examples thereof. We have already seen that poets and 
poetry play an important yet poorly defined role in Book I, in a way that leads 
naturally toward the focus on poetry in Book II and to the assertion that it is the 
“privileged” form of language, superior to prose. On the other hand, the actual 
definition of the “vulgare illustre” over the space of three dense chapters attempts 
to appropriate for it, and for Dante, an authority that is evidently far greater than 
the simply “poetic.” 


45 Two traditional critical “querelles” explore the question, the first of which we have already 
touched on: 1) what is the nature of the “volgare illustre” itself (is it a socio-political reality or 
does it exist only in the poetic examples to which Dante consistently returns)? 2) and what is 
the relation of book I to book II (is the “tragic” or high poetic style the equivalent of the 
“volgare illustre,” or is it simply one instance of how the “volgare illustre” can be deployed 
poetically?). The two questions are closely related since book I obviously is “linguistic” and 
broadly socio-political in focus, while book II is just as obviously rhetorical and poetic. 
Among the originators of the view that the “vulgare illustre” is “merely” a poetic style, are 
D’Ovidio 1876, p. 106; Rajna pp. 78-80, both of whom take up a polemical claim of Alessandro 
Manzoni. Those for whom the “vulgare illustre” is, instead, not a style but a socially and 
historically verifiable language are Nardi 1942, Pagliaro, and Pagani. The critics I have found 
most useful are those who have seen that the “vulgare illustre” is both, or at least alternately, a 
language and a poetic style (Ewert, pp. 360-62); Vinay, esp. p. 272; Mengaldo 1978, pp. 81ff, 
and 1979, p. 6). As for the question of the relationship between book I and book II, most critics 
have tended either to assume a fundamental discontinuity (D’Ovidio, p. 109; Vinay, 263ff.) or 
simply to ignore book II altogether (as Pagani does, because it is a distraction from her 
essentially “political” reading of De vulgari eloquentia). See Marigo, pp. lviii ff. The most 
useful critics for book II are Mengaldo, whose essays and notes are the most useful introduction 
to the range of problems and controversies surrounding both books, but also Dragonetti, whose 
discussion of the “cantio” (pp. 52ff and especially pp. 72 ff.) is the most detailed and 
suggestive, if not fully credible, attempt to link the linguistics of book I to the poetics of book 
II and to suggest the centrality of the canzone to Dante’s thinking about language and art. 


218 Albert Russell Ascoli 


In chapter xvi, as shown earlier, Dante confers upon the “panther,” by 
analogy, the theological status of creative Logos, then displaces that theological 
authority by an implicit associative chain onto himself. In the two subsequent 
chapters the defining qualities of the illustrious vernacular, “‘illustre, cardinale, 
aulicum, et curiale"(I.xvi.6), incarnate that authority in the realm of history, 
broadening Dante’s claims for it even further. The first of these chapters, xvii, is 
dedicated exclusively to explaining the suitability of the principal adjective 
“illustre,” which anticipates all of the qualities exfoliated in the other three 
adjectives, which are treated together in the following chapter. The applicability 
of “illustre” to the panther is revealed in a series of steps that may at first seem 
logical in a philosophical sense, but are in fact dictated by a figurative logic of 
displacement by analogy. By “illustre,” he says, we mean something that is 
“filled with light and, thus filled, shines forth” (“quid illuminans et illuminatum 
prefulgens” I.xvii.2). This image of light is then transferred to “‘viros illustres,” 
and these of two kinds: those who are “potestate illuminati alios et iustitia et 
karitate illuminant” and those who “excellenter magistrati excellenter magistrent” 
(xvii.2). These two forms of “illustriousness” are then exemplified, or better, 
personified, by Numa Pompilius and Seneca, making it clear that Dante sees 
“illustre” as enfolding both power and knowledge, kingship and philosophy. On 
analogy with its application to famous men, then, the “vulgare illustre” is said 
to be “sublimatum . . . magistratu et potestate” (xvii.2; see also Pagani, pp. 
11ff). 

There is here, then, a curious structural affinity with the crucial moment in 
the Convivio, Book IV, when Dante tacitly situates the authority of (his) poetry 
between, yet also outside and above the paired and complementary authorities of 
Frederick II and Aristotle. Of course, this is only given in the form of an 
analogy — and in fact, “magisterium” and “potestas” come to mean something 
quite different in reference to language than they do in reference to illustrious 
men: by linguistic “magistracy” he means the ability to transform the rough 
words and constructions of Italian dialects into something as perfect as the 
canzoni of Cino and friend (xvii.3); while by “potestas” he means the rhetorical 
power to sway the will of the hearer “ut nolentem volentem et volentem 
nolentem faciat” (xvii.4). 

Rhetorically, Dante has appropriated for the “vulgare illustre” and for 
himself both “magisterium” and “potestas.” But the appropriation is only and 
obviously rhetorical, as the final allusion to his exile, and the backhanded 
reminder that he lacks the “potestas” of kings, even as he may rival them in 
fame, immediately reveal. In the following chapter, the stakes become both 
clearer and higher. The first adjective treated is “cardinale” which refers to the 
“pivotal” and transcendent role of the “vulgare illustre” vis-a-vis the municipal, 
its role as the language not of one region or group but of all Italy and Italians 
(xvili.1). The next two adjectives “aulicum” and “curiale” specify that this 
universality is not simply “stylistic,” but also political and rational in character. 





Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 219 


Through them Dante attempts to transform the analogy that already links the 
“vulgare illustre” to political power and to philosophical knowledge into 
substantive historical reality. The “vulgare illustre” would be the language of the 
“aula,” which, “totius regni comunis est domus et omnium regni partium 
gubernatrix augusta” (xviii.2). It would also be the language of the “curia,” 
defined through the quality of “curialitas” as “librata regula eorum que peragenda 
sunt” (xviii.4), but clearly referring to the idea of a court surrounding and 
supporting the king and the “aula,” whose primary function, in Dante’s terms, 
would be at once to supply the knowledge needed for rule and to administer the 
power deriving from that rule.** In Book I, then, Dante is trying to define a 
language that is at once Italy’s, the “prince’s,” the curia’s, the poets’, and his 
own. 

It is here, however, that the dream of a language knitting together all of 
Italy (‘‘cardinale”) through the power of a Principe joined to the wisdom of a 
curia founded on justice and reason, breaks down in the face of intractable 
historical facts:47 Dante is forced to acknowledge that the “vulgare illustre” too 
wanders in exile for lack of a regal “aula” (xviii.3) and that the “curia,” likewise 
dispersed throughout Italy, is bound together only by the “gratioso lumine 
rationis” (xviii.5). Given the opening definition of language as the indispensable 
bridge between isolated rational subjectivities, however, this latter assertion is 
clearly tautological: the rationality of the “curia” legitimizes the “vulgare 
illustre,” but use of the “vulgare illustre” is what defines the “curia” as rational. 
In the next and final chapter we are reminded that, in effect, the “doctores 
illustres” who compose that curia in exile are simply those who have written 


46 For “aula” and “curia,” see Marigo, pp. Lxxix-lxxxiii; Di Capua, p. 49. My own discussion 
depends on a series of structural inferences to align the “aula”/“curia” opposition as first 
presented with the “Numa”/“Seneca,” “potestas”/“magisterium,” emperor/philosopher dyads of 
Convivio, book IV, and De vulgari eloquentia I.xvi. Clearly the curia’s function is to administer 
justice and rule the kingdom on behalf of the Princeps, to translate into practice the “regula” of 
law, and thus has the duty of exercising power informed by knowledge. Just as clearly, however, 
the historical separation of “aula” from “curia,” forces the latter back onto the disempowered 
resources of reason alone. In Convivio, by contrast, Dante never confronts directly the idea that 
his mission of providing philosophical knowledge to supplement the power of the Italian rulers 
could be a failure. 

47 Dante is not very clear about what kind of political structure and figure he is talking about 
here — the court is surely to be an Italian one, but he does not openly break with the notion of a 
transnational state under the aegis of an Emperor (his sovereign of choice in Convivio , book 
IV, and in Monarchia). What really permits the equivocation is that his historical example is 
Frederick II, who fits both descriptions. Pace Vinay (256ff.), then, there is no necessary 
evolution in Dante’s linguistic thinking tied to the equation of Latin with the Empire — 
although the “vulgare illustre” certainly is meant to be “political” in a basic sense. Dante 
simply ignores the question in both Convivio IV and the Commedia for the rhetorically astute 
reason that he wants both to legitimate Italian and to revive the Empire without foregrounding 
the potential conflict between national language and transnational monarchy. For the general 
question of the problematic political status of “Italy” for Dante, see also Davis 1984, pp. 1-22. 


220 Albert Russell Ascoli 


poetry in “Italian” (xix.1). Thus, even as it is being given definition, the 
“vulgare illustre” slides from theological transcendence, to the immanence of 
human knowledge and power, to the formal marginality of the poet. We might 
add that, with a wry twist, Dante finally gives a kind of answer to the apparent 
“non-question” of which guild, which “professional group” at Babel first gave 
rise to the “ydioma tripharium” and thence to Italian: he and his fellow poets 
speak a language that no one else can hear. 

In fact, it is clear that the rhetorical slide away from “potestas” and 
“magisterium” moves inexorably toward the logical extension of Babelic 
isolation in the barbaric gibberish of Nimrod. The “autore” as “actor” and 
fabricator certainly points toward the divine “Faber” or “Factor” (I.v.1; vii.5), 
but even in the act of claiming such a resemblance he verges on the usurping 
“edificatio” of the Tower. Finally, and most provocatively, the convergence of 
Dante’s literal exile with the language’s figurative one leads us again to suspect 
that, in fact, the “curia” too is simply another impersonal trope for Dante 
himself.4® At the very least, then, we see that Dante’s ostensibly “rational” 
rhetoric in the De vulgari eloquentia is guided throughout by a utopian desire to 
impose political order and cultural coherence upon a “geographical expression” 
where disorder and incoherence currently reign supreme, through a projection of 
his personal sense of identity and the formal perfection of the canzone onto the 
domain of political-social history through the vehicle of the “vulgare illustre.” 

The clear turn in Book II to the language of poetry, and of one poet in 
particular, thus constitutes an acknowledgement that the ambitious project of 
Book I is doomed to failure, at least until a new and better strategy can be 
devised for encompassing it.4? And the affirmation of the personal authorship of 
poetic making continues to be marked from within by the persistent sense of an 
exclusion — the bitterness of an exile that embraces man, language, poetry, 
even “Italy” itself (the “nation” whose only substance is the form of a poetic 
desire). That sense lingers on even in the meticulously detailed discussions of the 
minutiae of style in Book II. Most prominently, in chapter vi, a tedious series of 
Latin prose examples of “‘constructio” conceals a continuing preoccupation with 
the unruliness of history, and the inability of “poets of rectitude” to put it right. 
The chapter begins with an allusion to the most famous classical model for the 
intersection of philosophical and political authority — “‘Aristotiles 
phylosophatus est tempore Alexandri’” (II.vi.2) — one most apt to the ideal 


48 On the “vulgare illustre” as Dante’s private and personal language, see, for example, Ewert, 
p. 363; Nardi 1942, p. 195. Except for some suggestive hints in Mengaldo, none of these 
critics has explored the rhetorical process by which the identification is effected, or its 
meaning. 

49 On the privileged role of poets in constructing not just a style but a language in De vulgari 
eloquentia, see Dragonetti; Vinay, esp. pp. 265-266; Pagani, esp. pp. 87-154, 181; Mengaldo 
1978 & 1979. 


| 


Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 221 


intersection of “aula” and “curia,” but also one which emphasizes their 
| devastating disjunction in Dante’s Italy. Dante goes on to give a list of examples 


_ illustrating degrees of stylistic “urbanitas,” from least to greatest, which 


simultaneously offers a fragmentary picture of contemporary life in the peninsula 
ravaged by the violence of its ignorant and bestial rulers (Azzo d’Este) and of 
Florence in particular subjugated by a barbaric invader (Charles of Valois). And 
in the midst of that picture Dante inscribes, for the last time in the treatise, the 


| pain and impotence of his own exile, precipitated precisely by Charles’s 
_ invasion: “‘Piget me cunctis pietate maiorem, quicunque in exilio tabescentes 


_ patriam tantum sompniando revisunt 


299 


(II.vi.4), barely sublimated in the exercise 


_ of style, and belying the earlier, hopeful, claim that “dulcedine glorie nostrum 
 exilium postergamus” (I.xvii.6) (Dragonetti, pp. 67-69; Mengaldo 1979, pp. 


182-83 n.2; Scaglione, p. 30). The obvious inference is that the retreat into 
questions of poetic style is the only tenable position in a historical situation 
where Dante and his language no longer hold out any hopes of successful 
mediating between knowledge and power. 

Why, then, did the De vulgari eloquentia remain unfinished? The general 
assumption is that, like the Convivio, it was set aside because “something more 
important,” i.e., the Commedia, came up. The title alone of the “sacro poema” 
suggests a deliberate conversion from “tragedy” to “comedy,” perhaps based on 
considerations of stylistic register, or perhaps on the redefinition of modes in 
terms of narrative dynamics that we find in the “Epistle to Cangrande.”°° One 


_ Teader, on the other hand, has with the slightest of textual evidence conjectured 


that the “unfinishedness” of the treatise is only apparent, that in fact what we 
have reflects a fully realized authorial intention (Welliver, pp. 13-16). While I 
would not go quite so far (believing, as I do, that an unstable conflict of 
authorial motives runs throughout the treatise), I would argue that one narrative 
project is completed successfully, namely the authorization of Dante as 
vernacular poet and his convergence with Dante, the Latin prose author. At the 


_ same time, a second project is abandoned as hopeless: namely the desire to give a 


detailed, “encyclopedic” treatment to the full range of vernacular discourses, from 


~ the “vulgare illustre” to that of the individual family, from the tragic to the 


elegiac, from poetry to prose.*! And it is the completion of the first project that 
dictates the renunciation of the second. Dante’s self-identification as the poet of 
the illustrious, tragic, “cantio” would only be diluted by moving through the 
range of Italian vernacular experiences (Mengaldo 1978, pp. 91-92). To put it 
another way, to assert one’s personal identification with the illustrious, tragic 


50 Epistola X1II.29; cf. Iannucci; Vinay, p. 274; Hollander 1983; Barolini 1984, p. 214 et 
passim; Mengaldo 1979, p. 9. 

] For the projected organization of Book II see n. 41 above; as well as Rajna, p. 79; ED vol.II, 
p. 403; Mengaldo 1979, pp. 26-27. Pagani, p. 251, argues that Dante gave up because he lost 
interest in the “purely literary” (i.e., not political) project of books II and following. 


222 Albert Russell Ascoli 


canzone is to lose the impersonal authority over the encyclopedic totality of 
linguistic experience. In the end the De vulgari eloquentia, exactly like the 
Convivio, includes only those parts of the projected whole that directly bear on 
Dante’s personal experience as vernacular poet — what is omitted is everything 
else that was to be included for the didactic benefit of others. 

In the Convivio, I have argued, Dante lays the ground work for the 
assignment of nobility, and implicitly authority, on the grounds of personal 
worth, but he does so in the impersonal, and paradoxically self-effacing, terms of 
Scholastic theology (Ascoli 1989, pp. 35-39). At the same time he positions a 
vernacular poetic “autore” outside the grasp of the traditional political and 
intellectual authorities, personified in the Emperor and the Philosopher (pp. 23- 
24 et passim), whose “vocalic” powers suggest a teasing analogy with the 
Tetragrammaton, and the intuition of a possible “theological” authorization from 
outside the confines of history. The Convivio, however, never moves beyond 
implication and indirection to assert its new personal and transcendent, poetic and 
theological, authority, and in fact never renounces the now-superseded project of 
allegorically “vulgarizing” ethical philosophy in verse. Nor does it ever heal the 
“schizophrenic” structural split between Dante the humble prosaic 
“commentator” and Dante the poetic “auctor” worthy of commentary, to 
instantiate a writing at once personal and authoritative (although it does move 
beyond the “allegory of poets,” to a canzone which gives its philosophical 
meaning literally). 

The De vulgari eloquentia, rather than being more successful in its attempts 
to “legitimate” Dante, his language, and his art than is the Convivio, is actually 
far less so, precisely because it risks a great deal more and openly exposes the 
risks it takes. By confronting so directly and explicitly the problem of conferring 
nobility and thence authority on vernacular language, Dante deprives himself, in 
effect, of the possibility of passing himself off as a humble disciple of the 
ancient authorities, and must confront more directly both the magnitude of the 
claims he wants to make for himself and his poetry and the formidable 
conceptual and historical obstacles to realizing them. Again, and far more 
openly, he tries to escape the “historicity” which destroys authority by 
figuratively conferring a transhistorical and “theological” status on the “vulgare 
illustre.” But the analogy with God “ubique et necubi” will not hold in the face 
of the brutal historical realities of a decentered Italy and the inevitable 
identification of the “‘vulgare illustre” with the exiled “friend of Cino”: a retreat 
into the contingency of “merely” poetic authorship follows immediately. What 
the De vulgari eloquentia does do that the Convivio cannot, however, is to 
bridge the distance between the author of the Latin treatise and the vernacular 
poet who is, finally, his own principal subject, if only by (temporarily) 
foregoing any claim to an authority that is more than “merely poetic.” 

The two texts thus operate as the hermaphroditic halves of an original 
intention that is somehow unable (as yet) to make itself whole. The Convivio 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 223 


_ completes the rhetorical appropriation of an impersonal philosophical authority, 
_ while laying the hidden theoretical foundations for a vernacular poetics of truth. 


In the De vulgari eloquentia, by contrast, rhetorical self-assertion picks up where 


_ theory leaves off (or breaks down) with the open resumption of a first person 


poetic voice, which acknowledges and affirms the newly personalized “autorita” 
of an individual vernacular poet. 

The situation can be summed up by returning to the fundamental 
“intertextual” dispute between the De vulgari eloquentia and the Convivio 


_ concerning what constitutes the “nobilitas” of a language — “naturalness” (i.e., 


the “vulgare”) or “stability” (i.e., Latin). The shift, as many critics have 


_ observed, can be “accounted for” by the fact that Dante uses his key terms in 
distinctly different ways in the two contexts.°? But this accounting in itself 
_ exposes the contingency and historicity of human rationality (its subjection to 
the “sensible sign,” but also its variability according to circumstance). What 


Dante seems to know, and his career-long propensity for self-contradiction in 
matters philosophical bears this out, is that the terminology of rational 
philosophy is itself “historical” and contingent, subject to the will of the 
individual speaker and the specific circumstances of time and place, like all 
language after the Fall from Eden and the confusion of Babel. What a word like 
“nobility” means thus depends very much on the context in which it is applied 


_— if what we are talking about is “naturalness,” the vernacular is nobler; if we 


_ focus on ability to resist change, then “grammar” is superior. The ideal would be 


to have a language that was at once natural and unchanging, like Eden itself, but 
that place is lost forever, as a historical possibility, and man now wanders in 
exile, divided in language as in all other things: it finally doesn’t matter where 


_ one starts, with “nature” or with “immutability”; the turn will always be in the 


direction of the other quality, in an attempt to recover what cannot be recovered. 
One might then argue that even this paradox can be recuperated into a 


_ coherent, redemptive Christian typology of salvation history — after all, if 
| Babel is the figure of the fallen historicity of the human city and its human 
_ language, it is also the antitype of that which exceeds and redeems humanity and 
- its history: the Logos, the City of God. And it is thus paradoxically the case that 


| 


' 





i 
' 





by putting contemporary Italy and its languages under the sign of Babel, Dante 
| apparently brings them within the illuminating confines of scriptural authority. 
' On the other hand, his version of the story of Babel itself is marked by the traces 


of historical fact and exigency that tend to separate it off from the Biblical 


| Original and to make of it a product of the contingent needs of Dante’s treatise 


52 For the different usages of nobilitas see D’Ovidio 1876, pp. 77-78; Ewert; Vinay, p. 257; 
| Grayson, pp. 19-24; Mengaldo 1978, p. 62. For the claim that the word is used in the same way 
| in both treatises, see Grayson. Cf. n.25 above on the general shiftiness of Dante’s apparently 
*“technical” vocabulary. 


224 Albert Russell Ascoli 


and a reflection of contemporary Italian history, rather than the reverse.*3 

The non-Biblical account of the “confusio” by guild is inserted precisely to 
give logical substance to the narrative of the dispersal of languages. Dante’s need 
to make a historiographical bridge between the Biblical account of Babel and the 
linguistic realities of his own time requires that the post-Babelic world be 
confused but not too confused — languages need to be divided, but they still 
must work, and to work they must be usable by communities. The reduction to 
the language of a single person, the logical consequence of the Biblical Babel 
story, would have brought human speech to a historically determinable halt. 
Dante’s “historical linguistics,” by contrast, requires an expansion and iteration 
of Babel throughout history, so that the Babelic languages themselves are 
subdivided, and subdivided again, until we reach the point where every quarter, 
every street, every family may have its own language which is unintelligible to 
others. Furthermore, as D’Ovidio (1931) and Corti (1978) have taught us, that 
account is unmistakably informed by the Florentine social and class system that 
shaped Dante and that Dante so often and so powerfully condemns. Dante 
“authorizes” his discourse by deriving it from the book of God, but at the same 
time is the author of a decidedly human “fictio,” capable of rewriting the Bible 
itself (Rizzo, p. 79). If Babel, then, is part of a Christian and specifically 
Dantean theory and “theology” of history, in this version it also marks Dante as 
part of a historical narrative that is not so easily closed or theorized — one that 
Dante himself could not possibly have written or perhaps even understood. 

The way in which this ambiguous historicity is then overcome, or at least 
masked rhetorically, in the Commedia can be seen by comparing the 
representation of Nimrod and Babel in the De vulgari eloquentia with that in Inf. 
XXXI, and particularly the different results obtained by Dante in the two texts as 
he tries to bring the contemporary Italian historical scene into the typological 
framework of Babelic temporality. In canto XXXI, Dante and Virgil enter into 
the circle of the traitors, which at first appears to the bewildered pilgrim as a 
walled city punctuated by a series of great watch towers. This city within the 
city of Dis is, in fact, an optical illusion, since the towers are not towers at all, 
but giants, traditional emblems of idolatrous pride and mortal resistance to divine 
order. It is, of course, particularly apt that one of these “towering” giants is 
Nimrod, architect of Babel. Like so much of the Commedia, this canto too is 
historically syncretic, assimilating the war of the Titans on Olympus to the 
Biblical account of the Babelic challenge to God’s supremacy. And the 


53 Castaldo notes that Dante freely rearranges and even rewrites Scripture elsewhere as well. 
Notably, in discussing who spoke first (I.iv) Dante ignores Adam’s naming of the animals and 
invents a non-Scriptural conversation between God and Adam. See Nardi 1942, p. 191; 
Dragonetti, pp. 13-14; Rizzo, p. 80. The omission of this passage is suggestive negative 
evidence against Corti’s and Dragonetti’s thesis (Pagani, p. 69; cf. Corti, pp. 49-51), since it is 
the strongest Scriptural proof that language is a product of human invention rather than of 
divine gift. 


Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 225 


syncretism goes further, to bring contemporary Italy allusively into the picture, 
as Dante compares one of the giants, Anteus, “figlio della terra,” to the 
“Garisenda,” the great Bolognese feudal tower which still stands today, 
reaffirming at the close of the canto the giant/tower equation and confusion with 
which he opened it. 

Throughout lower Hell, as is well known, Dante systematically links the 
historical cities of central, “communal” Italy to classical and Christian 
typologies of the city in malo — human or demonic, Thebes or Dis, as may be 
— under the sign of the Augustinian “city of man.” Thus it is no surprise to 
find Bologna and its towers used in this way, especially because of the clear 
association of towers with the rampant factionalism that Dante saw as a basic 
evil of his own and other Italian cities.°4 The Bologna-Babel connection in the 
Commedia is carefully articulated within a powerful “theo-logic,” which brings 
contemporary Italy into the typological economy of “salvation history,” from 
the secure perspective of eschatology. The radical historicity of language, the 
“confusio,” in this sense, simply constitute the despised “other” of the 
transcendent Logos. That is why Adam palinodically corrects Dante’s definition 
of Hebrew as the original “language of grace” in the De vulgari eloquentia, by 
affirming that all human tongues, including the one spoken in Eden, are subject 
to change and death. Adam’s assertion is perfectly consonant with a poetics of 
transcendence even as it provides the perfect excuse for writing in a new, mutable 
language like Italian.°> No wonder that the failure of Dante’s mind and language 
to comprehend and represent God “truly” in Par. XXXIII is so easily taken as the 
sign of a triumphant success (e.g., Freccero 1964; Hollander 1975, p. 129; 
compare Mazzotta 1979, pp. 256-69). 

Just as in Inf. XXXI, the De vulgari eloquentia establishes a special relation 
between Babel and the contemporary reality of Italian cities, and once again 
Bologna occupies a pivotal place in this process. In the first instance, it is just 
one part of a larger display of Italian cities and their dialects which form the 
historical aftermath of the Babelic confusion.* But Bologna is also singled out 
in ways that no other city is, not even Dante’s natal Florence. It is, for example, 
quite specifically offered as the modern, “historical” double and consequence of 
Babel, since it is invoked as a city where each quarter, each street, has its own 
individual “idiom” (I.xv.2ff.). And in this sense it enters the typological scheme 
of fallen historicity. On the other hand, when Dante undertakes to sift through 


54 See Dronke 1981, pp. 36-37; Corti 1978, esp. p. 250. 
55 On the shift from De vulgari eloquentia to Par. XXVI, and particularly on the full acceptance 
in the latter of the full historicity of all human languages, see Rajna, p. 81; Nardi 1942, pp. 
191-95; Ewert, p. 359; Rizzo, pp. 72ff.; Casagrande, especially p. 363; Mengaldo 1978, pp. 
68-69; Brownlee; Dronke 1986, p. 49. 

© On the connections between De vulgari eloquentia and Inf. XXXI, see n. 36 above. To my 
knowledge, however, no one has either seen the parallel uses of Bologna in the two texts before 
or interpreted their relationship in this way. 


226 Albert Russell Ascoli 


the various dialects, Bolognese alone among all the other municipal tongues 
comes in for praise, since it combines elements from both sides of the peninsula 
into a more-than-municipal tongue, tacitly reversing the process of “confusio” 
by reuniting dispersed elements, turning multiplicity back toward unity (1.ix.5). 
In its empirical syncretism it anticipates the “vulgare illustre” itself, although 
the simple fact of empirical existence disqualifies it from being equated with the 
illustrious vernacular. Bologna, in other words, represents the range of linguistic 
possibilities within the historical city, but in this text, unlike the Commedia, it 
is at once inside and outside the typological schematics of Babel — in other 
words, it flaunts an ambiguous historicity. No wonder, then, if its presence in 
the treatise has been taken to be “historical” in the most literal sense: as the 
scene of Dante’s early exile and the treatise’s composition, and as the contingent 
conduit of a transcendent theory of language.” 

The power and the limit of Dante’s rhetorical strategy in the De vulgari 
eloquentia is that it consistently adapts rational absolutes and theological 
categories to contingent circumstances (or rather, to the basic circumstance of 
contingency itself). And this continues to be the case even in the Commedia, 
where it is, however, transformed by the “simple” expedient of adding what both 
treatises point to allusively as the sine qua non for going beyond their failures: a 
direct theological authorization which removes Dante, his language, and his 
poetic art from the “macule” of historicity and of personality, or rather, which 
wholeheartedly accepts those “stains,” while grounding them in the authority of 
the divine Author himself. Only by perversely turning the earlier prose works 
into a palinode of the “sacro poema,” rather than the reverse, do we realize that 
the substance of its vision is as much rhetorical and historical as it is 
theological, and that it constitutes the powerful residue of an encounter between 
a totalizing ideology, a fragmented society, and a poet in “internal exile” from 
both of them. 


Northwestern University 


Works Consulted 


Alighieri, Dante. De vulgari eloquentia. Ed. P. V. Mengaldo. Opere minori, tomo II. 
Ed. P. V. Mengaldo et alii. Milano: Ricciardi, 1979. 
. Il convivio. 2 vols. 2nd ed. Ed. G. Busnelli and G. Vandelli. Intr. M. Barbi. 
Append. A. Quaglio. Firenze: LeMonnier, 1964. 
. The Divine Comedy. 3 vols. Comm. and trans. C. S. Singleton. Princeton: 


57 See D’Ovidio, pp. 64, 102-4; Corti 1981, pp. 17-31; Davis 1984, p. 9; Mengaldo 1978, p. 
22; ED, vol.I, p. 402. 


Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 227 


Princeton UP, 1970-76. 
. Epistole. Ed. A. Frugoni and G. Brugnoli. Opere minori, tomo II. Ed. P. V. 
Mengaldo et alii. Milano: Ricciardi, 1979. 


| Allen, Judson. The Ethical Poetic of the Later Middle Ages. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 


1982. 

Arendt, Hannah. “What is Authority?". Between Past and Present: Eight Exercises in 
Political Thought. Enlarged ed. New York: Viking P, 1968. Pp. 91-141. 

Ascoli, Albert Russell. 1987. Ariosto’s Bitter Harmony: Crisis and Evasion in the 
Italian Renaissance. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1987. 

. 1989. “The Vowels of Authority (Dante’s Convivio IV.vi.3-4)". Discourses 

of Authority in Medieval and Renaissance Literature. Ed. K. Brownlee and W. 
Stephens. Hanover, NH: UP of New England. 23-46. 


| Auerbach, Erich. 1961. Dante, Poet of the Secular World. Trans. R. Mannheim. 


Chicago: Chicago UP. First published 1929. 
. 1959. “Figura.” Scenes from the Drama of European Literature: Six Essays. 
New York: Meridian Books. Pp. 11-76. First published 1944. 
. 1953. Mimesis: The Representation of Reality in Western Literature. Trans. 
W. R. Trask. Princeton: Princeton UP. 
Barolini, Teodolinda. 1984. Dante’s Poets: Textuality and Truth in the Comedy. 
Princeton: Princeton UP. 
. 1989. “Detheologizing Dante: For a ‘New Formalism’ in Dante Studies.” 
Quaderni d'Italianistica 10: 35-53. 
Brownlee, Kevin. “Why the Angels Speak Italian.” Poetics Today 5 (1984): 597-610. 
Casagrande, Gino. “‘‘I s’appellava in terra il sommo bene’ (Par. XXVI.134).” Aevum 
50 (1976): 249-73. 
Castaldo, Dino. “L’etica del primoloquium di Adamo nel De vulgari eloquentia.” 
Italica 59 (1982): 3-15. 


_ Castiglione, Baldassare. The Book of the Courtier. Trans. C. S. Singleton. Garden 


City, NY: Doubleday-Anchor, 1959. 


_ Chenu, M.D. 1927. “Auctor, Actor, Autor.” Bulletin du Cange: Archivium Latinitatis 


Medii Aevi 3 (1927): 81-86. 
. 1964. Toward Understanding St. Thomas. Trans. A. M. Landry and D. 
Hughes. Chicago: Regnery. 


_ Chiampi, James Thomas. Shadowy Prefaces: Conversion and Writing in the Divine 


Comedy. L’interprete, 24. Ravenna: Longo, 1981. 

Colish, Marcia. The Mirror of Language: A Study in the Medieval Theory of 
Knowledge. Rev. ed. Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1983. 

Contini, Gianfranco. 1958. “Dante come personaggio-poeta della Commedia”. In 
Un’ idea di Dante. Torino: Einaudi, 1976. This essay first published 1958. 

. 1965. “Un’interpretazione di Dante.” In Un’idea. This essay first published 

1965. 

Corti, Maria. 1981. Dante a un nuovo crocevia. Firenze: Libreria Commissionaria 
Sansoni. 

. 1978. “Dante e la Torre di Babele: una nuova allegoria in factis.” Il viaggio 
testuale: le ideologie e le strutture semiotiche. Torino: Einaudi. Pp. 243-56. 
Curtius, Emst Robert. European Literature in the Latin Middle Ages. Princeton: 

Princeton UP, 1953. 


228 Albert Russell Ascoli 


Davis, Charles T. 1957. Dante and the Idea of Rome. Oxford: The Clarendon P. 

. 1984. Dante's Italy and Other Essays. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P. 

Derrida, Jacques. Of Grammatology. 1967. Trans. G. C. Spivak. Baltimore: Johns 
Hopkins UP, 1976. 

Di Capua, Francesco. Insegnamenti retorici medievali e dottrine estetiche moderne 
nel “De vulgari eloquentia” di Dante. Napoli: Loffredo, 1945. 

D’Ovidio, Francesco. 1931. “Dante e la filosofia del linguaggio.” Studi sulla Divina 
Commedia. Napoli: Guida. Pp. 291-325. 

. 1876. “Sul trattato De vulgari eloquentia di Dante Alighieri”. Archivio 
glottologico italiano 2: 59-110. 

Dragonetti, Roger. “La Conception du langage poétique dans le ‘De vulgari 
eloquentia’ de Dante.” Aux frontiéres du langage poétique. Romanica Gandensia, 
9. Ghent, 1961. Pp. 9-77. 

Dronke, Peter. 1986. Dante and the Medieval Latin Traditions. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP. 

. 1970. Poetic Individuality in the Middle Ages: New Departures in Poetry, 
1000-1150. Oxford: The Clarendon P. 

Enciclopedia dantesca (ED). 6 vols. Dir. U. Bosco. Roma: Istituto dell’Enciclopedia 
Italiana, 1970-78. 

Ewert, A. “Dante’s Theory of Language". Modern Language Review 35 (1940): 355- 
66. 

Ferrante, Joan M. The Political Vision of the Divine Comedy. Princeton: Princeton U 
P, 1984. 

Ferrucci, Franco. “Comedia”. Yearbook of Italian Studies 1 (1971): 29-52. 

Foster, Kenelm. The Two Dantes and Other Studies. London: Darton, Longman, and 
Todd, 1977. 

Freccero, John. 1973. “Casella’s Song (Purg. I.112).” In Dante: The Poetics of 
Conversion. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. Pp. 186-94. This essay first 
published 1973. 

. 1966. “Dante’s Prologue Scene.” In Dante. Pp. 1-28. This essay first 

published 1966. 

. 1964. “The Final Image: Paradiso XXXII, 144.” Dante. Pp. 245-57. This 
essay first published 1964. 

Gilson, Etienne. Dante and Philosophy. Trans. D. Moore. New York: Harper and 
Row, 1949. Rpt. 1963. 

Grayson, Cecil. “‘Nobilior est vulgaris’: latino e volgare nel pensiero di Dante.” 
Cinque saggi su Dante. Bologna: Patron, 1972. Pp.1-31. First published 1965. 

Greenblatt, Stephen. 1982. “Introduction.” The Power of Forms in the English 
Renaissance. Norman, OK: Pilgrim Books. Pp. 3-6. 

. 1980. Renaissance Self-Fashioning: From More to Shakespeare. Chicago: 
U of Chicago P. 

Greene, Richard H. “Dante’s ‘Allegory of Poets’ and the Medieval Theory of Poetic 
Fiction.” Comparative Literature 9 (1957): 118-28. 

Guillory, John. Poetic Authority: Spenser, Milton, and Literary History. NY: 
Columbia UP, 1983. 

Harrison, Robert P. The Body of Beatrice. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 1988. 

Helgerson, Richard. Self-Crowned Laureates: Spenser, Johnson, Milton and the 








Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 229 


Literary System. Berkeley: U of California P, 1983. 
Hollander, Robert. 1969. Allegory in Dante's Commedia. Princeton: Princeton UP. 
. 1975. “Babytalk in Dante’s Commedia.” Studies in Dante. L’Interprete, 16. 
Ravenna: Longo. Pp. 115-29. This essay first published 1975. 
1976. “Dante Theologus-Poeta.” In Studies 39-89. This essay first 
published 1976. 
.1983. “Tragedia nella Commedia.” Il virgilio dantesco: tragedia nella 
Commedia. Firenze: Olschki. Pp. 117-54. 
Holmes, George. Florence, Rome, and the Origins of the Renaissance. Oxford: The 
Clarendon P, 1986. 
Hyde, J. K. Society and Politics in Medieval Italy: The Evolution of the Civil Life, 
1000-1350. New York: St. Martin’s P, 1973. 
Iannucci, Amilcare. “Dante’s Theories of Genres and the Divine Comedy.” Dante 
Studies 91 (1973): 1-25. 
Jacoff, Rachel. “Models of Literary Influence in the Commedia.” Medieval Texts and 
Contemporary Readers. Ed. L. Finke & M. Shichtman. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1987. 
Pp. 158-76. 
Kahn, Victoria. Rhetoric, Prudence and Skepticism in the Renaissance. Ithaca: 
Cornell UP, 1985. 
MacLennan, Jennaro L. “Autocomentario en Dante y comentarismo latino.” Vox 
Romanica 19 (1960): 82-123. 
Marigo, Aristide. Introduction. De vulgari eloquentia. Ed. Aristide Marigo and P. G. 
Ricci. 3rd ed. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1968. Pp. xv-clvi. 
Mastrobuono, Antonio. Essays on Dante's Philosophy of History. Florence: 
Olschki, 1979. 
Mazzotta, Giuseppe. 1979. Dante, Poet of the Desert: History and Allegory in the 
Divine Comedy. Princeton: Princeton UP. 
. 1986. “The Light of Venus and the Poetry of Dante.” Magister Regis: 
Studies in Honor of Robert Earl Kaske. Ed. A. Groos et alii. NY: Fordham U P. 
Pp. 147-69. 
. 1989. “Theologia Ludens: Angels and Devils in the Divine Comedy.” 
Discourses of Authority in the Middle Ages and Renaissance. Ed. K. Brownlee 
and W. Stephens. Hanover, NH: UP of New England. Pp. 216-35. 
. 1984. “The Virtues of Exile.” Poetics Today. 5: 645-667. 
Mengaldo, Pier Vincenzo. 1979. Introduction and Notes. Alighieri, De vulgari 
eloquentia. 
. 1978. Linguistica e retorica di Dante. Pisa: Nistri-Lischi. 
Miller, Jaqueline. Poetic License. NY: Oxford UP, 1986. 
Minnis, A. J. 1984. Medieval Theory of Authorship: Scholastic Literary Attitudes in 
the Later Middle Ages. London: Scolar P. 
Minnis, A. J. and A. B. Scott. 1988. Medieval Literary Theory and Criticism, c. 
1100-c.1375: The Commentary Tradition. Oxford: The Clarendon P. 
Montrose, Louis Adrian. “Renaissance Literary Studies and the Subject of History.’ 
ELR 16 (1986): 5-12. 
Najemy, John M. Corporatism and Consensus in Florentine Electoral Politics, 1280- 
1400. Chapel Hill, NC: The U. of North Carolina P, 1982. 
Nardi, Bruno. 1942. “Il linguaggio.”Dante e la cultura medievale. New ed. Ed. P. 


230 Albert Russell Ascoli 


Mazzantini. Bari: Laterza, 1983. Pp. 173-95. First published 1942. 

. 1966. “Osservazioni sul medievale ‘accessus ad auctores’ in rapporto 
all’Epistola a Can Grande.”Saggi e note di critica dantesca. Milano: Ricciardi. 
Pp. 268-305. 

Ong, Walter. “Latin Language Study as a Renaissance Puberty Rite.”Rhetoric, 
Romance, and Technology: Studies in the Interaction of Expression and Culture. 
Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1971. Pp. 113-41. 

Pagani, Ileana. La teoria linguistica di Dante. Napoli: Liguori, 1982. 

Pagliaro, Antonio. “I ‘primissima signa’ nella dottrina linguistica di Dante.” Nuovi 
saggi di critica semantica. 2nd ed. Messina: G. D’ Anna, 1963. Pp. 215-46. 

Passerin d’Entréves, A. Dante as a Political Thinker. Oxford: The Clarendon P, 1952. 

Pietrobono, Luigi. “Filosofia e teologia nel Convivio e nella Commedia”. Giornale 
dantesco 41 (1938): 13-71. 

Quint, David. Origin and Originality in Renaissance Literature. New Haven: Yale UP, 
1983. 

Rajna, Pio. “Il trattato De vulgari eloquentia.” Dante: le vite, le opere, le grandi citta 
dantesche, Dante e I' Europa. Ed. G. Alimi et alii. Milan: Treves, 1921. Pp. 77- 
86. 

Rizzo, Stefano. “Il De vulgari eloquentia e |’unita del pensiero linguistico di Dante.” 
Dante Studies 87 (1969): 69-88. 

Said, Edward. Beginnings: Intention and Method. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 
1975. 

Sarolli, Gian Roberto. “Autoesegesi dantesca e tradizione esegetica medievale.” 
Prolegomena alla Divina commedia. Firenze: Olschki, 1971. Pp.1-39. 

Scaglione, Aldo. “Dante and the Ars Grammatica.” The Divine Comedy and the 
Encyclopedia of the Arts. Ed. G. Di Scipio and A. Scaglione. Amsterdam: John 
Benjamins, 1988. Pp. 27-42. 

Schnapp, Jeffrey. 1988. ‘“Dante’s Sexual Solecism: Gender and Genre in the 
Commedia.” Romanic Review 79: 143-63. 

. 1986. The Transfiguration of History at the Center of Dante's Paradise. 
Princeton: Princeton UP. 

Singleton, Charles S. 1977. Dante’s “Commedia”: Elements of Structure. Baltimore: 
Johns Hopkins UP. First published in 1954. 

. 1957. “The Irreducible Dove.” Comparative Literature 9: 129-35. 

Smarr, Janet L. Boccaccio and Fiammetta: The Narrator as Lover. Urbana: U of 
Illinois P, 1986. 

Spitzer, Leo. “Notes on the Poetic and Empirical ‘I’ in Medieval Authors.” 
Romanische Literaturstudien, 1936-56. Tiibingen: Niemeyer, 1959. Pp. 100-12. 
First in Traditio 4 (1946): 414-22. 

Stillinger, Thomas C. “Authorized Song: Lyric Poetry and the Medieval Book.” DAI 
1988 June 48 (12) 3108A. 

Tambling, Jeremy. Dante and Difference: Writing in the Commedia. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1988. 

Trovato, Mario. “Il primo trattato del Convivio visto alla luce dell’accessus ad 
auctores.” Misure critiche 6 (1976): 5-14. 

Vinay, Gustavo. “Ricerche sul De vulgari eloquentia.” Giornale storico della 
letteratura italiana 136 (1959): 236-74, 367-88. 





Historicity and Authority in De vulgari eloquentia 231 


Weiss, Roberto. “Links between the Convivio and the De vulgari eloquentia.” 
Modern Language Review 37 (1942): 156-68. 

Welliver, Warman. Dante in Hell: The De vulgari eloquentia. L’interprete, 21. Ravenn 
: Longo, 1981. 

White, Hayden. “The Value of Narrativity in the Representation of Reality.” Critical 
Inquiry 7 (1980): 5-27. 

Zumthor, Paul. 1975. “Autobiographie au Moyen Age?” Langue, texte, énigme. 
Paris: Seuil. Pp. 165-80. 
. 1986. Speaking of the Middle Ages. Lincoln: U of Nebraska P. 


Mario Trovato 


Dante’s Poetics of Good: 
From Phenomenology to Integral Realism’ 


The intention of this study is to foreground a theory of bontade or goodness in 
Dante’s works which, in my view, has not received enough attention until now. 
I will argue that the theory of the good constitutes the substratum of the Vita 
nuova, the Convivio, the De vulgari eloquentia and the Divine Comedy. Dante’s 
text — and particularly some issues which still constitute the objectives of 
critical discussion — will be enlightened and clarified within the context of the 
theory of good. Hence, my investigative process will involve three steps: 1) the 
elaboration of this theory in the Convivio; 2) the genealogical tree of “good”; 3) 
and how the notion of the good functions in the Vita nuova, the Convivio, the 
De vulgari eloquentia and the Divine Comedy. 


I 


Dante often uses the word “good” in forms like “bene,” Buono,” “Bontade,” or in 
phrases like “umana bontade,” “divina bontade.” By these expressions he means 
something more profound than a simple qualification. In the first treatise of the 
Convivio the author writes : “Onde con cid sia cosa che due perfezioni abbia 
l’uomo, una prima e una seconda — la prima lo fa essere, la seconda lo fa essere 
buono...” (Conv. 1:13.3).! 

What is the perfection which causes man to be? What is the perfection 
which causes man to be good? In the fourth treatise of the Convivio, the author 
proposes to correct an error concerning “l’umana bontade in quanto in noi é da la 
natura seminata e che ‘nobilitade’ chiamare si dee” (Conv. 4:1.7). Here Dante 
equates human goodness with nobility. What is nobility? In the Convivio he 
writes: 


. . . per questo vocabulo “nobilitade” s’intende perfezione di propria natura in 
ciascuna cosa. Onde non pur de |’uomo é predicata, ma eziandio di tutte cose — ché 
l’uomo chiama nobile pietra, nobile pianta, nobile cavallo, nobile falcone — 
qualunque in sua natura si vede essere perfetta. 

(Conv. 4:16.4) 


* Part of this paper was presented as a lecture at a seminar at Yale University in the Fall of 1989. 
I am most grateful to Paolo Cherchi, Giuseppe Mazzotta, and William Paden fro their 
suggestions. 


1 an quotations from the Convivio are from the Ricciardi edition by Vasoli and De Robertis. 





Dante's Poetics of Good 233 


Hence, for Dante the good constitutes perfection and nobility in reality. Now we 
know that, according to Aristotle, what makes a being perfect in its own nature 
is its specific form (Metaphysics 8:1042b, 13). Therefore Dante was 
assimilating the concept of good to the metaphysical form of being. In fact, as a 
metaphysical concept, good is both transcendental and analogical : it is a 
component of nature, present in all beings, but in different degrees. 

Where do forms come from? Dante responds: “Ciascuna forma sustanziale 
procede da la sua prima cagione. . . . clascuna forma ha essere de la divina 
natura” (Conv. 3:2.4-5). Therefore, the answer to the question, “What is the 
perfection which causes man to be?” is: The good. The good, as a metaphysical 
form created by God, constitutes the “nobility” and “perfection” of being. The 
good is both the perfection that causes man to be and the perfection which causes 
man to be good. 

Obviously, Dante was not the originator of the theory of goodness. Within 
the history of ideas, the problem of good and evil seems to be originated from 
human need to discover the meaning of reality which surrounds us and which we 
feel we are a part of. Philosophers were and are still trying to answer a very 
simple, but not easy question : What are we and the external world made of? Is 
reality a value in itself, that is good, or is it a juxtaposition of 
phenomenological particles without an intrinsic meaning and value?? It is 
obvious that in the Convivio, Dante provides us with the result of his 
investigation about-the notion of reality; he tells us what he believes constitutes 
both the valuable objective of human activity and the product of this activity. I 
am convinced that when Dante was writing the Convivio he had already grasped 
the “great conception” of the principle unifying cosmological reality : “la divina 
bontade in tutte le cose discende” (Cony. 3:7.2). His poetical genius will 
describe this principle: 


E come |’alma dentro a vostra polve 
per differenti membra e conformate 
a diverse potenze si risolve, 


2 In the Timaeus (90, 134), Plato considers Daimon, that is, reason or the divine light in human 
beings, the highest value on the earth. For the immanentist Aristotle, the real value is theoria 
which propels humans ab intrinseco to the téleios, which is the areté, the true perfection and 
nobilization of human nature. In the First Ennead (7, 54), Plotinus distinguishes four 
subordinated and interdependent orders of values, apsyché (lifeless matter), psyché (soul), nots 
(mind) and aristés (the Best). For Stoics the areté or the axia was “virtue” (virtus and honestum); 
the honest was considered as the quiddity of moral (bonum) and aesthetic (pulchrum) values. For 
the Plotinian and Ciceronian Augustine, the Supreme True-Good was God and, after his 
conversion, the God revealed by Christ. The verb uti (to use) defines the relationship between 
man and extemal reality. Reality is Good insofar as it helps human knowledge and loving of 
God (frui Deo). In the Middle Ages, Augustine’s De natura boni and De ordine were considered as 
the most reliable sources about the theory of natural and supernatural values. 


234 Mario Trovato 


cosi |’intelligenza sua bontate 
multiplicata per le stelle spiega, 
girando sé sovra sua unitate. 


(Par. 2:133-35) 


This “intelligence” is “la forma universal” (Par. 33:91), which is “luce” (Par. 
33:100): that is, the ultimate reason of any goodness: 


pero che il ben, ch’é del volere obietto, 
tutto s’accoglie in lei, e fuor di quella 
é difettivo cid ch’é li perfetto. 
(Par. 33, 103-105)3 


Nevertheless, I became curious to know the cultural context of Dante’s doctrine 
in order to understand better : 1) the specific difference between ontological good 
(the object of metaphysics), and “to be good” (the object of ethics); 2) the 
relationship between natural and supernatural activities conducing the “seed of 
human goodness” (Cony. 4:21.9) to its perfection or “to be good,” whether these 
activities are independent or dependent within the process of human actualization; 
3) and the relationship between the notion of good and aesthetics. 


II 


To answer these questions, it was necessary to climb the genealogical tree of 
good. After Bruno Nardi’s demonstration, no one would doubt that Dante had 
good knowledge of the works of St. Albert the Great.* St. Albert’s De natura 
boni and De bono (1240-1248)> inspired the Summa de summo bono by Ulrich 
of Stramburg (1262-1272) as well as Thomas Aquinas’ thought on the same 
subject. However, in writing his books, Albert depended on De bonitate divinae 
naturae by Alexander De Hales (the first Franciscan Maitre at the University of 
Paris, 1238), on the Summa duacensi (1230-1236), and on the Summa de bono 
by Philip the Chancellor of the same period. 

In all these texts, the good is considered as a metaphysical, ethical and 
aesthetical reality. The authors believed that ens et bonum convertuntur (“being 
and good are interchangeable” De bono 12) and that beauty is the “splendor,” the 
aesthetic attractive form of the good. For medieval philosophers there was an 


3 All quotations are from Petrocchi’s critical edition. 

4 «11 vero & che, assai pid che a Tommaso, Dante é debitore ad Alberto Magno” (Dal Convivio 
alla Commedia 29). 

5 De natura boni was composed in Germany, around 1236. De bono was written in Paris between 
1240-1248 and constitutes the last part of several theological treatises entitled Swnma de 
creaturis. 














Dante’ s Poetics of Good 235 


intimate relationship between good and nature, natural and supernatural. In the 
Convivio, Dante was expounding something more important than simple human 
ethical behavior through his theory of good. He was continuing and correcting 
his vision of love in the Vita nuova. Through the Donna gentile, Dante was 
recuperating the meaning of nature, the role of aesthetics and their relationship 
with supernatural reality. 

The theory of good developed at the School of Chartres, where scholars were 
devoted to explaining the relationship between good and God, good and nature, 
and good and evil. The equation of “good” and “reality” was the result of the 
famous debate between Cathars, who admitted that nature was in itself evil, and 
Catholics, who affirmed the opposite. Philosophers like Gilbert de La Porée, 
William of Conches and others analyzed and interpreted Plato’s Timaeus, 
Macrobius’ Somnium Scipionis, Augustine’s De natura boni, Boethius’s De 
consolatione philosophiae, De trinitate, De hebdomatibus. Using these works, 
they struggled to establish an authoritative definition of existential reality 
diametrically opposed to the one offered by Catharism. The effort to define the 
notion of nature was intended to prove the unity of creation, as William of 
Conches wrote, “against those who say that the Creator assigned two natures to 
things, one good and another evil” (“contra eos qui dicunt Creatorem duas naturas 
rebus attribuisse unam bonam et alteram malam” Glossae super Platonem 117). 

The Renaissance of the twelfth century strongly reflects this cultural 
context. The Cosmographia by Bernardus Sylvester, as well as the De planctu 
nature and the Anticlaudianus by Alain of Lille, dramatized the contrast between 
good and evil while, at the same time, looking for the rebirth of a harmonious 
relationship between the good of man and good of nature.® 

In the thirteenth century, with the introduction of Aristotelian works into 
Western Europe, the relationship between good and nature became the piéce de 
résistance of philosophical, theological and poetical debates. All agreed with 
Aristotle that the good, understood as the object of human activity, is the 
objective value of human desire (“bonum est quod omnia optant” “the good is 
what all beings crave for”). However, both philosophers and poets were 
investigating the essence of the real “good” which could perfect man as a natural 
and a supernatural being. Is it the Aristotelian “theoria,” the rational 
contemplation of truth? Is it God? Is it both? Does man reach his intellectual 
goodness or perfection by himself or through grace? 

In the last forty years, many manuscripts commenting on Aristotle’s Ethics 
have been published.” The authors answered these questions according to their 


© For these works and selected relevant bibliography, see: Wetherbee, “Form and Inspiration in 
the Poetry of Bemardus Silvestris” and “Nature and Grace : The Allegories of Alain of Lille,” in 
his Platonism and Poetry; Stock, Myth and Science in the Twelfth Century. 

For commentaries on Aristotle’s Ethics, see Gauthier, Giocarinis; Celano. For commentaries 
on Aristotle’s De anima, see Giele et al. 


236 Mario Trovato 


personal philosophical affiliation. At the bottom of all the debates, mutatis 
mutandis, there was the same philosophical concern which exists today : is our 
mind “strong” enough to reach the truth or is our thought “weak”? 

In the second half of the thirteenth century, the same time span bridging 
Guittone d’ Arezzo to Dante, three philosophical schools dominated European 
thought. 

First, Siger de Brabant, following Averroes, denied a personal intellect.’ 
There is one intellect, separate, for all men, and divine. Man, made of matter (the 
body) and of the cogitative soul, is not very different from an animal. Man reacts 
to external reality like any other animal : external objects affect him and are 
transformed into images which stimulate his passions. Apparent beauty 
provokes a desire which will never be fulfilled. Instinct is like the Dantean she- 
wolf which is hungrier after feeding than before. Love is an incumbent necessity 
limiting and restraining man’s intellectual activity. The real good of man is 
intellectio, the intellectual symbiosis between the divine Agent Intellect and our 
cogitative soul.? Briefly : human perfection consists of contemplating reality 


8 Siger de Brabant’s theory regarding the distinction between human and intellective soul caused 
ab eterno, as expounded in Quaestiones in III de anima (1270), goes through various and subtle 
modifications. Attacked by Thomas Aquinas (De unitate intellectus, 1270), Siger, in 

Quaestiones de anima intellectiva (1271-73), and especially in Tractatus de intellectu (1272- 
74), resorts to a neoplatonic identification of active intellect and God. The intellect is a divine 
form which enlightens man’s potential intellect. Hence, the intellective soul is not the form of 
the body. It joins the cogitative soul (the proper form of human beings) as an inner agent 
(“intrinsecus operans”); but it is an outsider who is metonymically called “form,” in that any 
agent acting within matter is called “form”: “anima intellectiva perfectio corporis est, secundum 
quod intrinsecus operans ad corpus perfectio et forma corporis habet dici. Convenit enim cum 
forma in hoc quod intrinsecus corpori non loco separatum, et quia etiam operatio sit intrinsecus 
operantis totum denominat” (Quaestiones de anima intellectiva156). 

Siger’s position in De intellectu is still more clearly defined by Augustinus Niphus: “Many, and 
among them myself, support the peripatetic and Averroistic positions. We believe that the 
potential intellect is separated; it is the ultimate abstract form. . . . On the contrary, the active 
intellect is God himself. God may be taken either as He who enlightens and sheds light on 
beings (in this view, He is the active intellect) or as He who is the efficient cause of all 
existential beings. In this case, we call Him the first principle and motor. . . . According to 
those philosophers, rational soul is nothing but a connexion between God as enlightening and 
the ultimate abstract as the enlightenable.” (“Multi in positione perypateticorum ac Averroys 
persistentes et ego diu credidimus intellectum potentie esse intellectum separatum, ultimum 
abstractorum, ut Averroys. . . . Intellectus autem agens erit tunc secundum hoc Deus. Deus enim 
potest dupliciter intelligi: uno modo, ut illuminans quoddam, illustrans omnia entia, et hoc 
pacto dicitur intellectus agens; alio modo ut efficiens omnia entia in esse, et sic dicitur primum 
principium ac primus motor. . . . Rationalis vero anima apud hos nihil est, nisi colligatum ex 
Deo, ut illuminante, et infimo abstractorum, ut illuminabili.” Nardi, Sigieri de Brabante 21). 

9 For Siger, knowledge is possible only through active intellect. In fact, only active intellect 
has the power to abstract the idea from any materiality (“intellecta materialia non sunt 
intellectus in se, quoniam sunt in materiis, sed fiunt intellectus, prout mens removet illa a 
materiis” 28). Since active intellect is God Himself, only this knowledge generates happiness 





Dante's Poetics of Good 237 


within the Divine Light. The aesthetic fruit of this Averroistic philosophy was 
either a poetry of desire and desperation (Sicilian lyrics, Guittone’s pre- 
conversion poetry) or the contemplation of the intellectio, personified in a divine 
feminine beauty (Guinizelli, Cavalcanti). 

Second, for Franciscan philosophers, and particularly for St. Bonaventure, 
Nature was a phenomenon, the referent of which was the Verbum, the 
supernatural Good.!° Hence, the immediate objective of man’s intellectual 
activity is to reach the Verbum, the divine Word, through nature. According to 
St. Bonaventure, the main concern of men is to know how to interpret the signs 
in nature to attain the Referent.!! 

Third, Albert the Great, followed by Thomas, criticized both the Sigerian 
and the Augustinian-Franciscan philosophy and proposed a philosophical system 
synthesizing the Aristotelian notion of external reality and the Platonic idea of 
“divine good.”!2 By sharing its goodness, the Supreme Good establishes an 
ontological relationship between itself and its creatures. The degree of this 
relationship makes possible a chain of differentiated beings reflecting, each in its 
own way, the glory of their Creator. As Dante writes: 


La gloria di colui che tutto move 
per l’universo penetra e risplende 
in una parte pill e meno altrove. 
(Par. 1:1-3) 


Created goodness (res creata) becomes an earthly text; the signs of this text, 


(“id quo felicitantur dij omnes est suprema hominis et omnium felicitas, sed deus est quo omnes 
felicitantur, quoniam omnes intellectus felicitantur intelligendo Deum; sed intellectio qua deus 
intelligitur est ipse Deus. Ergo omnia felicitantur” 22; emphasis added). 

10 st, Bonaventure was one of the strongest opponents of Siger de Brabant’s dualistic theory. 
In 1267-68, he was in Paris and delivered his speeches contained in two different works, 
Collationes de decem praeceptis and Collationes de donis Spiritus Sancti. They present a 

neoplatonic interpretation of earthly reality. For St. Bonaventure, the human soul is the 
principle of activity which, through apprehension (“apprehensio”), pleasure (“oblectatio”) and 
judgment (“diudicatio”) abstracts cognizable forms. However, for the theologian, all these 
forms are “vestigia” designed “to mirror our God” ("in quibus speculari possumus Deum 
nostrum,” /tinerarium mentis, Opera omnia 5:301a). 

11 For St. Bonaventure, nature constitutes a Christological phenomenology. Cognitive 

activity must concentrate mainly on the interpretation of natural signs. Beauty, order and 
measure are lightning rods of the divine Referent (“et sic patet quod totus mundus est sicut unum 
speculum plenum luminibus presentantibus divinam sapientiam et sicut carbo effundens lucem,” 
In Hexaemeron, Opera omnia 340b). 

12 Two points are essential within the psychological and moral system of both St. Albert and 
St. Thomas: 1) the existence of an ontological goodness immanent within being, the 
substantial form; 2) and the integration of a natural and supernatural process leading this form to 
its own earthly perfection which is considered “relative” as compared to the supematural. This is 
achieved through the “gift of the Holy Spirit.” 


238 Mario Trovato 


however, are not merely signs or phenomena, but realities connoting a meaning, 
a value in itself, through which man might see the presence of the Creator’s 
supreme goodness. The objective value of nature consists in being an 
ontological image of the Trinity (imago Trinitatis; St. Albert, De bono 27). 
Against the previous philosophers, St. Albert strongly emphasized the objective 
value of the natural. His notion of “vestige” or “image” differs from that of St. 
Bonaventure. In St. Bonaventure’s system, the meaning of natural phenomena 
lies outside the “image”; the purpose of external reality is to signal the 
supernatural Referent, God. Nature is an empty sign or a siren, like the sirens 
that tempted Ulysses, for those who do not know how to read it, whereas for 
Albert “vestige” or “image of Trinity” imply both sign and signifier, though 
analogically. Each thing is intrinsically constituted of elements (numbers) which 
are united by a specific form (species). This form has an inner force (pondus) 
which propels the form itself towards its own perfection. 

Hence, cosmological reality is a numerical entity, whose essential unities 
are one, three and nine.!? In each of its three stages, objective reality is 
characterized by three components. In its first stage of formation (in fieri), the 
components are Numbers, Weight and Measure. 

St. Albert imagines God as the great Chief of earthly creation. “Number” 
(Numerus) stands for the ingredients of beings; “Weight” (Pondus) is the exact 
weight of each ingredient; “Measure” (Mensura) is the proportion between 
ingredients. In its second stage of being (in esse), the object is a measured entity 
(Modus) having a specific form (Species) and an order or purpose (Ordo). In its 
final stage or actualization (res perfecta), the object is a unity distinct from 
another (Unum); it is a true object (Verum) because it has its own genuine form; 
and finally, it is good (Bonum), because the object has reached its complete 
existential perfection. At this stage “good-reality” becomes the aesthetic object 
of man’s psychological activity : the attraction of both senses and mind. Hence, 
objective reality was considered both as a signifier and as a signified, a guide to 
God through its triad values.'4 

As far as anthropology is concerned, Albert struggled to integrate natural and 
supernatural orders. In accord with Thomas Aquinas, he rejected the Sigerian 
monopsychic theory and demonstrated the substantial unity between body and 
intellectual soul. (In 1256, Albert wrote De unitate intellectus refuting Siger’s 
thesis.) For the German philosopher, the starting point of man’s psychological, 
epistemological and moral process is the created goodness which determines and 


13 In the De bono (Tr. I, Q. I, art. 2), St. Albert describes “res” or reality as a unity implying 
three consecutive modes of being with nine respective perfections: one, three and nine make 
“res” an ontological image of Trinity. “In fieri: Numerus, Pondus, Mensura”; “res in esse: 
Modus, Species, Ordo”; “res perfecta: Unum, Verum, Bonum.” 

14 “Res secundum quod ordinatur ad hominis intellectum et affectum, propter quem instruendum 


omnia facta sunt” (St. Albert, De bono, Tr. I, Q. I, art. 2). 





Dante's Poetics of Good 239 


specifies the nature of human activity, that is, the nature of human love. 
However, natural goodness gives only a relative fruition (“fruitio secundum 
quid”), in that it is ordered to the absolute one (“fruitio proprie dicta” or 
“simpliciter”).!> Rational activity integrated by grace has the power to reach the 
Absolute Good. 


Ii 


Dante’s notion of good in the Convivio is close to the Albertian-Thomistic 
system. The two terms of relation, “to be” and “to be good,” both imply a 
perfection, however different in their degree. The initial perfection, which brings 
a thing into being, is only a potential form; in rational beings, this form is what 
Dante calls “seme di felicita” (Conv. 4:20.9). Natural, rational and supernatural 
activities are designed to actualize and perfect that “seed” through the science of 
nature (the “eyes” of Donna gentile or “‘phylosophica documenta” De Mon. 3:16) 
and Revelation (the “smile” of the Lady or “documenta spiritualia” De Mon. 
3:16). 

Since good is the object of human activity, it is strictly related to the 
concept of love. It led Dante to reconsider the content of the Vita nuova. In the 
Convivio, Dante felt the need to fill a gap existing in the earlier booklet between 
the protagonist “T’ and his supernatural Beatrice, because he had undervalued and 
misinterpreted the notion of nature or good reality. The integration of natural and 
supernatural would “maggiormente giovare” (give added weight) to the Vita 
nuova. 

Undoubtedly, in the Vita nuova Beatrice represents and personifies what the 
subject “I” was looking for : a goodness, a beatitude which “cannot fail.” 
Beatrice is assimilated to the “daughter of God.” In the canzone-manifesto 
“Donne ch’avete intelletto d’amore,” Beatrice is at the center of the universe; God 
assures Angels and Saints that she will remain on the earth as a visible sign of 
man’s eternal beatitude. In chapter 24, the protagonist, using a biblical analogy, 
describes Beatrice as the fullness of time: 


E se anche vogli considerare lo primo nome suo, tanto é quanto dire “prima verra,” 
pero che lo suo nome Giovanna é da quello Giovanni lo quale precedette la verace luce, 
dicendo : “Ego vox clamantis in deserto: parate viam Domini.” 

(Vita nuova 24:4) 


In chapter 29, Beatrice is defined as “number nine,” the traditional magic number 
15 “Fruitio proprie dicta est inhesio dilectionis et delectationis alicuius rei per se etnon 


secundum accidens et non propter aliud inhesionis operationes non impeditae” (S. Th., Tr. 2, Q. 
7, cap. 3; emphasis mine). 


240 Mario Trovato 


which, as we have seen, totalizes all the components of good.!© Finally, in 
chapter 41, Beatrice is transfigured into a “qualitade . . . che lo mio intelletto 
non... puote comprendere.”!” All these qualifications are designed by the 
author to introduce his theory of love, based on the notion of good as the 
objective of human activity. In chapter 25:1, Dante, speaking as a philosopher, 
warns his reader that “Amore non é per sé si come sustanzia, ma é un accidente 
in sustanzia.” Love is a relationship (the love-tie) between subject and object. 
Now, according to Scholastic philosophy, the specifier determining the nature of 
the relationship is the object itself. Beatrice, the “Lady of his mind,” is not a 
mere natural creature, she is a transcendent, divine goodness. As number nine, 
she is an image of Trinity. Beatrice is a “miracle” (“maraviglia”), a sign whose 
essential purpose is to guide humans to their eternal Referent. Hence, the 
objective of the protagonist’s love being mystic, love itself must also be defined 
as mystic. 

One wonders what was Dante’s notion of earthly realism at that particular 
moment in his psychological and gnoseological maturation. I believe that the 
episode of Beatrice’s death is designed to signal his profound crisis. The new 
situation compels the subject “I” to relate himself either to a supernatural reality 
or to a natural one. What happens? The plot proceeds and another Lady appears 
on the stage, the “pietosa Donna gentile.” The two Ladies are presented as 
antagonists. The subject “I” is torn by a dilemmatic choice : to be faithful to 
Beatrice, or to forget her and love the Donna gentile. The protagonist’s dilemma 
reflects Dante’s uneasiness at the prospect of harmonizing natural and 
supernatural order, philosophy and theology. Beatrice’s reproach of Dante in 
Purgatory 30 and 31 confirms Dante’s philosophical deviation: 


16 Beatrice, for Dante, is a divine reality, because “se lo tre é fattore per se medesimo del nove, e 
lo fattore per se medesimo de li miracoli é tre e uno, cioé Padre e Figlio e Spirito Santo, li quali 
sono tre e uno, questa donna fue accompagnata da questo numero del nove a dare a intendere 
ch’ella era uno nove, cioé uno miracolo, la cui radice, cioé del miracolo, é solamente la mirabile 
Trinitade” (Vita nuova 29:3).In The Body of Beatrice, Harrison wams his readers “not to pursue 
any one of the various analogical or figurative determinations of Beatrice too far, for to do so 
leads to unsurmountable contradictions. . . . Is Dante telling his reader that Beatrice is or was a 
Trinity figure? If so, can she also logically be a Christ figure? And if she is a Christ figure, can 
she also logically be an angel figure? And can she . . . also be a historical woman?” (48-49). I do 
not understand what Harrison means by “logically.” What I would like to point out is the fact 
that within a tradition which goes back to at least St. Augustine, any creature in its own capacity 
is the image of Trinity. Dante transfigured this traditional notion into three famous lines which 
constitute the incipit of Paradise: “La gloria di colui che tutto move / per l’universo penetra e 

risplende / in una parte pid e meno altrove” (emphasis added). In the Vita nuova, Beatrice is 

introduced and developed as the emblem of goodness synthesizing human, angelic and divine 
perfection. In this capacity, she is the most suitable figure of the Incamated Divine Person who 
unifies in Himself every natural and supematural perfection. 

177 agree with Hollander who writes: “the treatment of Beatrice which we find there makes her 
as ‘figurally’ relevant to Jesus Christ as she will later be in the Commedia.” (“Dante Theologus- 

Poeta” 101). See also his article “Vita nuova: Dante’s Perceptions of Beatrice.” 








Dante's Poetics of Good 241 


Quando di carne e spirito era salita 
e bellezza e virti cresciuta m’era, 
fui io a lui men cara e men gradita; 

e volse i passi suoi per via non vera, 
immagini di ben seguendo false, 
che nulla promission rendon intera. 
(Purg. 30:127-32) 


Mario Marti has suggested that Dante’s going astray is well emphasized in 
chapters 38 and 39 of the Vita nuova (662).!8 But at this point some questions 
arise : Was Donna gentile a real person or was she the emblem of the poet’s new 
moral and aesthetic vision of life? Do we have to believe Dante when he affirms 
that Donna gentile was an allegorical character, the same as that of the Vita 
nuova? Was Dante’s deviation philosophical, moral, or both? I agree with 
Giorgio Petrocchi that “voler fare della Donne gentile due distinti personaggi 
verrebbe a urtare contro I’indicazione cosi precisa dell’autore stesso e in un certo 
senso contro la testimonianza esterna” (“Donna gentile”). The characterization of 
this lady as “una gentile donna giovane e bella molto” suggests a universal 
concept, the ideal “donna,” synthesizing all the qualities of natural beauty and 
goodness abstracted from historical and individual ladies : “Violetta,” “Pietra,” 
“Pargoletta,” “Lisetta.” As in the narrative story Beatrice goes through a process 
of transfiguration and becomes, after her death, the personification of 
supernatural beatitude, so Donna gentile, at that particular moment of the plot, 
must not be an individual lady. She must contrast with Beatrice as the 
universalization of natural values.!9 


18 Donna gentile is the prosopopoeia of Dante’s new vision of reality and love which is 
described as “uno spiritel novo d’amore / che reca innanzi a me li suoi desiri / e la sua vita, e 
tutto 1 suo valore / mosse de li occhi di quella pietosa / che si turbava de’ nostri martiri” (Vita 
nuova 38:10). 

19 | am aware that certain modem critics still deny the identity of the Donna gentile in Vita 
nuova and Convivio. Barolini argues that, in the Vita nuova, “As an alternative to Beatrice, the 
donna gentile must possess an equally historical identity.” According to Barolini, Dante is 
concemed for “his reputation. . . ; he believes that the treatise will restore his integrity by 
revealing that the motive force behind the canzoni is not ‘passione ma virti’ (‘not passion but 
virtue’ I, ii, 16)” (22-23). Indeed, in several passages of the Convivio Dante reminds his reader 
that his love for Donna gentile was inspired by “virti” and not by “passione” (1:1.18; 1:2.16; 
1:3.2; 2:12.7-8; 3:1.11). However, I believe that Dante’s concern is philosophical. He wants to 
demonstrate that his love for Donna gentile was philosophically motivated. We all know that 
for Dante to act by “virtue” means to act by intellect and reason; on the contrary, to act by 
“passione” means “vivere secondo senso e non secondo ragione, a guisa di pargoli” (Conv. 
1:4.3). Dante’s intention was not to defend his chastity or moral honesty, but rather to 
demonstrate the intellectual strength by which he reached his final choice, a new way of 
thinking: “Dico che pensai che da molti, di retro da me, forse sarei stato ripreso di levezza 
d’animo, udendo me essere dal primo amore mutato; per che, a torre via questa riprensione, nullo 


242 Mario Trovato 


Thus, objectively speaking, Donna gentile is one and the same character in 
the Vita nuova and the Convivio. However, Dante’s subjective perception of that 
lady goes through a gnoseological process which will lead him from a sensitive 
optical vision (Vita nuova) to a rational perception, as expressed in some 
allegorical and doctrinal poems addressed to “Pargoletta” or to Donna gentile 
herself, and, finally, to a spiritual knowledge of Donna gentile (Convivio). 

From her first appearance in chapter 35 to her final rejection in chapter 39, 
Donna gentile is the objective of the protagonist’s optical attraction (“li miei 
occhi si cominciaro a dilettare troppo di vederla” 37:1). She is the emblem of 
Dante’s philosophical modus vivendi. This hedonistic naturalism is reflected in 
such poems as “Non mi poriano gia fare ammenda,” “Guido, 1’ vorrei,” “Per una 
Ghirlandetta,” “Deh, Violetta” and others. 

However, Dante’s palinodic attitude in chapter 39 of the booklet shows that 
he was unable to resolve his inner conflict between natural and supernatural; he 
was still relying on Bonaventurean theory of the natural as “vanitade,” that is, an 
empty phenomenon, unable to bring about a beatitude which “cannot fail” (“onde 
pill volte bestemmiava la vanitade de li occhi miei” 37:2; “li miei occhi. . . de 
la loro vanitade fuoro degnamente guiderdonati” 39:5). 

Consequently the end of the Vita nuova celebrates the protagonist’s return 
from an empty and deceptive sign to the “miracle,” the real sign of the divine 
Referent. If we believe in the original structural unity of the libello,?° the 
solution of the Vita nuova’s plot lets the reader understand that the subject “I,” 
after an undetermined period of time (“dopo alquanti die”), chooses as terminus ad 
quem of his love that goodness which is now “oltre la spera,” that is, a 
supernatural “good-reality.” In other words, Dante rejects the aesthetics based on 
natural superficial fruition of beauty, and goes back to Guittonian mystic love 
based on eternal true-good.”! 


migliore argomento era che dire qual’era quella donna che m’avea mutato” (Cony. 3:1.11). This 
lady who coalesces human and divine reality is “sophia,” the guide of human nature on earth. 
The “virtus propria” (Mon. 3:16) of man is empowered by faith (“lumine divino adiuta,” Mon. 

3:16); whereas Beatrice is the beatific vision (“beatitudo vite eterne”) attainable in eternity. 
Dante’s new vision of reality implies a distinction between earthly activity — which functions 
within the light of reason and faith: Donna gentile or Virgil moved by Beatrice — and heavenly 
activity, which operates within the direct illumination of God: beatific vision, Beatrice. The 
two activities, however, do not imply dualism, because reason and faith are subordinated to 
beatific vision by which faith will disappear and human reason will be elevated to a supematural 
degree of understanding and loving the Supreme Good. Hence, Dante’s creed: “cosi affermo e 
cosi certo sono ad altra vita migliore dopo questa passare, 14 dove quella gloriosa donna vive de 
la quale fu l’anima mia innamorata” (Conv. 2:8.16). Earthly human activity develops through 

science and faith, whereas etemal life is “luce intellettiial piena d’amore” generated directly from 
the divine source, the Word Itself. 

20 For the original unity of the Vita nuova and the relevant bibliography see Pazzaglia. 

21 De Robertis argues that the Vita nuova “poetically and conceptually” ends at chapter 18, so 

that within the plot the death of Beatrice does not constitute a new discovery for the protagonist 


Dante’ s Poetics of Good 243 


Nevertheless, in Convivio 2:2.1-2, Dante writes that it was in August 1293 
when “gentile donna . . . parve primamente, accompagnata d’ Amore, a li occhi 
miei e prese luogo alcuno ne la mia mente.””? Is the writer providing the exact 
date of Donna gentile’s first appearance or is he describing a second moment, his 
new gnoseological perception of the Donna? Certainly the commentator gives us 
an unequivocal distinction between his first and second vision. In the second 
treatise, Dante’s explanation of literal meaning of “De li occhi miei” confirms 
his physical attraction for Donna gentile in the plot of the Vita nuova : “La 
prima é che bestemmia |’ora che questa donna li vide” (Conv. 2:9:4). After a 
scientific description of vision, he concludes : “é tanto a dire che li occhi suoi e 
li miei si guardaro” (Conv. 2:9.5). 

On the contrary, in the same treatise the commentator distances himself 
from that dramatic situation and stresses the particular moment when he 
“primamente” saw Donna gentile with his intellectual eyes: 


> 


“De li occhi miei” non vuole altro dire se non che forte fu l’ora che la prima 
dimostrazione di questa donna entro ne li occhi de lo mio intelletto, la quale fu 
cagione di questo innamoramento propinquissima. 


(II libro della Vita nuova 86). I believe, however, that at the end of the booklet Dante adds some 
specific characteristics which make the character of Beatrice different from that of chapter 18. In 
fact, in this chapter the conflict is between “saluto-salute” and Beatrice considered as a beatitude 
which “cannot fail.” Dante’s lady was still part of worldly reality. Whereas in the last chapters 
the contrast is between Donna gentile — the natural beauty and temporal felicity — and Beatrice 
— the supernatural reality. In chapter 41 the poet acknowledges his human incapacity to 
comprehend her. Beatrice is now the object of “intelligenza nova.” By this expression, the 
author may signify either the final, perfect knowledge he had reached about Beatrice’s purpose 
of being, or the phrase means that the poet had finally understood that Beatrice is the 
transcendent object of an “extra-ordinary knowledge” which, of course, goes beyond the limit of 
human knowledge. Both meanings complement each other: Dante has finally understood that 
the object of love, his Beatrice-beatitude is a supematural reality (“lo mio pensero sale ne la 
qualitate di costei in grado che lo mio intelletto non lo puote comprendere” 41:6). On the 
contrary, Donna gentile is blamed and equated to the Augustinian sinful nature. 

22 When Dante states in Convivio 3:1:1: “Cosi come nel precedente trattato si ragiona, lo mio 
secondo amore prese cominciamento dalla misericordiosa sembianza d’una donna,” the author 
signals only his first attraction for Donna gentile. In the next sentence, “Lo quale amore poi, 
trovando la mia disposta vita al suo ardore, a guisa di fuoco, di picciolo in grande fiamma 
s’accese,” he determines the temporal perimeters within which the “picciolo fuoco” turned into a 
“grande fiamma.” The precise chronology recorded in Dante’s mind suggests something which 
marks an unforgettable change in his life which goes beyond Vita nuova’s experience. I am 
suggesting that Dante had already finished the Vita nuova when Boethius and Cicero changed his 
mind about Beatrice and encouraged him to look at Donna gentile with the eyes of his intellect 
(see De Bonfils Templer). Therefore Dante does not contradict himself in the booklet when he 
lets his reader understand that his going astray was short and ended with his return to Beatrice; 
whereas in the Convivio, he implies a much longer period which ends up with the triumph of 
Donna gentile. In fact the second moment — Dante’s intellectual relationship with Donna 
gentile — takes place chronologically between the Vita nuova and the Convivio. 


244 Mario Trovato 


(Conv. 2:15.7; emphasis added) 


If the first apparition was under the sign of Venus (Conv. 2:2.1) and provoked a 
physical love, the intellectual apparition was provided and encouraged by two 
“movers of that heaven”: Boethius and Cicero. 

However, the author of the Convivio acknowledges that, at the beginning of 
his new vision of Donna, he had difficulty perceiving her intrinsic values. The 
dramatization of the poet’s anguish — to accept or to reject Donna gentile — 
continued after the completion of the Vita nuova and became the subject matter 
of several Rime, in which the Donna is not any more “una gentile donna 
giovane e bella molto,” but “fera e disdegnosa.” Sonnets 31 and 32 are 
emblematic of Dante’s ambivalent state of mind in regard to his Donna.“ 

Undoubtedly, in the last decade of the century (1290-1300) Dante was 
struggling to meet what would constitute the philosophical foundation not only 
of his faith, but of his poetics. The drama inherent in the allegorical and 
doctrinal poems originates not so much from the conflict between Beatrice and 
Donna gentile. as from the poet’s intellectual frustration, from his inability to 
perceive and understand the real value of “Donna-Nature-Philosophy.” The 
gnoseological process leading Dante to his final vision of Donna gentile as the 
integration of natural and supernatural, the unity of sign and signified, the 
visible effect of divine Wisdom in nature, develops slowly. The stages of this 
process are evident in Dante’s allegorical and doctrinal rhymes. 

In the Ballata “Voi che savete ragionar d’amor,” we find Donna gentile as 
transfigured into retta Donna. “Donna-philosophy” gives rise to a new concept of 
nature and love. The poet reaches out to what is beneath the apparent, physical 
beauty, that is, the foundation of beauty itself. Donna gentile’s beauty is the 
expression of “onore,” the substantial goodness on which the external form lies. 


23 “Non subitamente nasce amore e fassi grande e viene perfetto, ma vuole tempo alcuno e 
nutrimento di pensieri” (Conv. 1:2, 3). 

24 According to Contini (Dante Alighieri, Rime114), Sonnet 31 was composed at the 
beginning of 1294. It follows the ballata “Voi che savete ragionar d’amor” — in which Donna 

gentile is portrayed as “fera e disdegnosa” — and “Voi che intendo il terzo ciel movete.” All 
these rhymes show that Dante had difficulty understanding the role of Donna or rational science 
within creation. In the “Introduzione” of Busnelli’s and Vandelli’s edition of J! convivio (xxvi- 
XXvii), Barbi is right when he points out the difference between the Donna of the Vita nuova, 

characterized as “la pieta” and Donna gentile of allegorical and doctrinal poems in which the 

lady is described as “grande e potente come nessuna donna é.” Indeed, in the booklet, the author 
sets forth his first dramatic encounter with Philosophy, his attraction for natural science, and, at 
the same time, his mental immaturity to acknowledge the profound value of Donna’s superficial 
beauty and attractiveness. Whereas in the allegorical and doctrinal poems, the drama originates 
mostly from the poet’s intellectual frustration deriving from his desire for a deeper 
understanding of Donna’s tre nature. Dante is on the road leading him to a full knowledge of 
that Donna who will be celebrated in the Convivio as the personification of human and divine 

Wisdom. 





Dante's Poetics of Good 245 


Dante shows he has understood the Ciceronian concept of the honestum as re- 
interpreted by Albert the Great in opposition to Augustinian tradition. The 
Doctor defines the honestum as an ontological reality made of various 
components, a “potential unity” (“totum potestativum”), that is a combination 
of pulchrum, virtus and bonum inherent in reality.2> Also for Dante, the honest 
is made of various values : “cortesia e valore, / prudenza e onesta in compagnia.” 

The poet reverses his previous perception of beauty as “‘vanitade.” In the 
Ballata “TY mi son pargoletta bella e nova,” the birth place of “pargoletta bella” is 
heaven (“I’ fui del ciel”). She is described as a divine cosmic form of beauty, a 
divine being endowed with “bellezze . . . nove / perd che di 14 su mi son 
venute.” The “mysterious beauty” originating from heaven is the exclusive 
objective of those who possess both intellect and love. Beauty is a form of 
divine reality. As a matter of fact, the vision of Pargoletta in “Perché ti vedi 
giovinetta” or in “Chi guardera gia mai sanza paura” provokes in the subject “I” 
not a cathartic feeling of rest and peace, but rather a reverential awe, a sense of 
fear due to the awareness of the lover’s own incapability to reach and possess 
both the sign and the signified. 

At this stage, I believe that Dante’s perception of external reality as related 
to the process of human epistemological activity originates from contemporary 
Averroistic philosophy. In “Amor, che movi tua verti dal cielo,” Love is not the 
Scholastic appetitus intellectivus, that is, the intellective inclination by which 
“the soul joins its loved object”; but it is an external, active, divine and 
enlightening power. Its “splendor” concentrates on external reality and uncovers 
the best qualities of being, making them visible and shining. Love is the divine 
cause of both good and the cosmic desire (“‘disio”). It is, therefore, the principle 
activating the psyche-gnoseotic mechanism of human knowledge. The poet 
attributes to the power of love the specific characterization of the Sigerian agent 
intellect, the function of which is precisely that of dematerializing the 
intelligible forms from their external reality. Siger de Brabant assimilates the 
agent intellect to God and attributes to Him an “enlightening power” which 
makes all things intelligible: 


Deus enim potest dupliciter intellegi : uno modo, ut illuminans quoddam, illustrans 
omnia entia, et hoc pacto dicitur intellectus agens. . . .26 


25 “Honestum enim, quod est bonitas quaedam, totum potestativum est respectu suarum partium, 
et in toto potestativo pars absolute recipit praedicationem potestatis, et sic dicitur virtus 
honestas quaedam et bonitas” (De bono 72). In Super Dionysium, St. Albert identifies “virtus,” 
“claritas,” “pulchrum,” “honestum”: “Virtus claritatem quandam habet in se, per quam pulchra 
est, etiam si a nullo cognoscatur, ex qua tamen aptitudinem habet, ut cum quadam claritate in 
notitiam veniat, et propter hanc aptitudinem dixit Tullius, quod dicitur pulchrum honestum, 
secundum quod respectu alterius clarescit” (186 n.13). 

26 Augustinus Niphus, De intellectu (Venezia, 1503) I, tr. 4, c. 10, qtd. in Nardi, Sigieri di 
Brabante 21. 


246 Mario Trovato 


Rational soul is considered as “ultimum abstractorum” (“the least among the 
abstract beings"); hence the “lowest intellect” (“infimus intellectus”). 
Consequently human knowledge is possible only by the “combination of divine 
agent intellect with the lowest intellect” (“ex Deo et infimo intellectu fit unum 
tanta unitate, quanta sufficit . . . ad intelligere,” Augustinus Niphus, De 
intellectu I, tr. 4, c. 10). 

In Dante’s poem, the apprehension of “una giovane . . . bella e gentile” is 
made possible by the power of the divine “splendor” which enlightens and makes 
the object intellectually visible and lovable : 


Per questo mio guardar m’é ne la mente 
una giovane entrata, che m’ha preso, 

e hagli un foco acceso, 

com' acqua per chiarezza fiamma accende; 
perché nel suo venir li raggi tuoi, 

con li quali mi risplende, 

Saliron tutti su ne gli occhi suoi. 
(emphasis added)*’ 


Within the Sigerian epistemological theory, these last three lines, which are still 
the object of controversial interpretations,?* clearly describe the function of the 
divine “splendore” which, by enlightening, makes the species of the “giovane” 
full of light (“as a flame shines vividly within the water”); that is, the “splendor” 
makes intelligible and lovable the cognitive form, that is, the image of the 
external reality. 

Man as such is naturally endowed with the potential (infimum) intellect, the 
cogitative and imaginative virtue which provides the phantasmata; but Love only 
— the divine agent intellect — transfigures the sensitive images into abstract 
and intellectual forms: 


Quanto é nell’esser suo bella, e gentile 
ne gli atti ed amorosa, 

tanto lo imaginar, che non si posa, 
l’adorna ne la mente ov’io la porto; 
non che da se medesmo sia sottile 

a cosi alta cosa, 

ma da la tua vertute ha quel ch'elli osa 
oltre al poder che natura ci ha porto. 
(emphasis added) 


27 Quotations are from Rime, Opere minori di Dante Alighieri. 
28 Qpere minori di Dante Alighieri 249 nn. 28-30. 








Dante's Poetics of Good 247 


Consequently, the intellection of the “giovane” existing in the poet’s mind is 
made possible only by the relationship (“Amore”) between the “lowest intellect” 
and the divine Agent (“ex Deo et infimo intellectu”). Hence, Love is the 
transformer of unnoble into noble (“questa nobilitade che avven qua giuso e 
tutt’altra bontate / lieva principio de la tua altezza”). But, above all, Love-God 
alone is the absolute condition for men to understand the inner, the intellectual 
beauty of external reality. 

No one knows the chronological limits of this canzone, but its 
philosophical content as well as its stylistic perfection, recognized by the author 
himself, by ancient and modern criticism, are persuasive arguments that its 
author must have achieved a high knowledge of his contemporary 
epistemological theory as well as a mastery of style and expression. The 
characterizations of both the “giovane,” “bella e gentile” but “orgogliosa,” and 
Pargoletta “orgogliosa . . . e per me dura” seem to coalesce in one and the same 
personification which documents the biographical allusion made by Beatrice on 
mount Purgatory: 


“Non ti dovea gravar le penne in giuso, 
ad aspettar pit colpi, o pargoletta 
o altra vanita con si breve uso”. 
(Purg. 31, 58) 


If in “Voi che ’ntendendo il terzo ciel movete,” the poet is still struggling to 
solve his dilemmatic choice between Beatrice-mysticism and Donna gentile- 
rationalism, in “Amor, che movi tua verti dal cielo,” the author is far away from 
the Bonaventurian epistemology. “Donna” is no longer a “vanity”; she has been 
transfigured into a rational goodness. However, his drama is not over. In the 
poem, the poet still shows an unquenched “gran disio . . . di veder lei” (“great 
desire to see her”). This desire anticipates the Convivio’s problematic question of 
man’s “natural desire for knowing” (3:15.7-8) which will be solved in terms of 
an anti-Averroistic theory. It was this “disio” which motivated Dante to spend 
“thirty months” at “the schools of the religious and the disputations of the 
philosophers” (2:12.7). The first three treatises of the Convivio document 
Dante’s final vision of Donna gentile-philosophy, the science by which our 
“faith is helped.” 

As a matter of fact, in the Convivio the author deconstructs his booklet’s 
plot and asserts that he wants to reconstruct it more consistently: 


E se ne la presente opera, la quale € Convivio nominata e vo’ che sia, pill virilmente 
si trattasse che ne la Vita nuova, non intendo pero a quella in parte alcuna derogare, 
ma maggiormente giovare per questa quella; veggendo si come ragionevolmente 
quella fervida e passionata, questa temperata e virile esser conviene. 

(1:1, 16) 


248 Mario Trovato 


How does Convivio enhance the Vita nuova? In particular, the third treatise 
has been regarded as a certificate of Dante’s divorce from Beatrice and, at the 
same time, a document of his new marriage with Philosophy, an Averroistic or 
Boethian Lady. If we examine Dante’s notion of “Philosophy” within the light 
of his theory of goodness, we must admit that Dante’s vision of ontological 
reality has completely changed. It is well known that in the Convivio Dante 
refuses to accept the preeminence of metaphysics. He accepts instead moral 
philosophy as preeminent. Moral philosophy, Dante affirms, is “la primaia” in 
comparison to metaphysics and other sciences. Etienne Gilson understood very 
well that Dante was sustaining a thesis “tout a fait extraordinaire au moyen Age.” 
Gilson was right, but he believed that Dante gave preeminence to morality for 
practical reasons. Since the author of the Convivio was addressing politicians, 
Gilson concluded that Dante presented ethics as the highest science, because it 
teaches men how to be virtuous (Dante et la Philosophie 107). 

On the contrary, the passages of the Convivio which focus on ethics 
persuade us that Dante distinguishes moral philosophy from moral science and 
interprets philosophy as an inner “cosmic inclination” compelling all beings and 
particularly humans toward the “True-Good,” which is the ultimate reason for 
metaphysics itself. Proclus, the author of the Liber de causis, one of Dante’s 
sources, expounds the descent of the divine into being. Dante interprets the 
“divine into being” in his own way, taking it as the foundation and the 
motivation of a “cosmic ethics,” the centripetal force urging ab intrinseco all 
beings to their epic anabasis: the return of the good being to its cause which is 
the Ultimate Good. Giuseppe Mazzotta’s metaphor of a “desert” effectively 
describes Dante’s interpretation of historical reality : the march of human beings 
toward self-actualization, a new modus vivendi. The journey of the soul which 
“Esce di mano a lui che la vagheggia” (Pur. 16:85) is dramatically described 
through the allegory of the “Pilgrim” climbing the “Pyramid” to return to its 
Efficient and Final Cause, the Supreme Good (Conv. 4:12.15-18). Later on his 
genius will transfigure this great conception into cosmic poetry: 


... Le cose tutte quante 
hanno ordine tra di loro, e questo @ forma 
che l’universo a Dio fa simigliante 
Qui veggion 1’alte creature l’orma 
dell’etterno valore, il quale é fine 
al quale é fatta la toccata norma. 
Nell’ordine ch’io dico sono accline 
tutte nature, per diverse sorti, 
pit al principio loro e men vicine; 
onde si muovono a diversi porti 
per lo gran mar dell’essere, e ciascuna 
con ]’istinto a lei dato che 14 porti. 
(Par. 1, 103-14) 





Dante's Poetics of Good 249 


In the Convivio, this deep conviction brings Dante to introduce his final theory 
of love. His methodology is substantially the same as that of the Vita nuova. 
Love, the character and the “accident in substance,” becomes in the Convivio 
“phil(os)” and the object determining the nature of “‘phil(os)” is “soph(ia).” 
However, his notion of Wisdom is not generated from Aristotle’s Ethics. For 
Aristotle, Wisdom is the end of a self-achieved form of knowledge, whereas for 
Dante, Wisdom is an extrinsic objective of mind : it is the biblical Wisdom, the 
second Person of the Trinity, the incarnated Wisdom, the efficient and exemplary 
cause of the “good reality” itself. After quoting the Book of Proverbs, Dante’s 
comment reads as follows: 


O peggio che morti che l’amista di costei fuggite, aprite gli occhi vostri e mirate : 
che, innanzi che voi foste, ella fu amatrice di voi, acconciando e ordinando lo vostro 
processo; e poi che fatti foste, per voi drizzare, in vostra similitudine venne a voi. 
15.17) 


Wisdom is at the center of Dante’s cosmology. As a final cause, Wisdom is the 
object, the “‘true-good” of human-divine contemplation which is described in the 
Paradiso as 


Luce intellettiial piena d’amore 
amor di vero bene, pien di letizia 
letizia che trascende ogni dolzore. 
(Par. 30:40-43) 


Nevertheless Wisdom, the guiding light on man’s road, is visible, ontological, 
because She manifests Herself through “amici”: “onorate lei nei suoi amici e 
seguite li comandamenti loro” (3:15:18: “Honor her in her friends and follow 
their commands”), through the “goodness,” “gentleness,” and “nobility,” the 
divine constituents of being. This explains why Dante imagines “sophia” as 
having two “eyes” and a divine “smile.” Dante’s thought may be mapped as 
follows: 


Eyes 
Phil(os) (= ‘‘amistanza”)——————S oph(ia): 


Smile 


Man. 





Soph(ia) is the object and the specifier of human “amistanza” or loving activity. 
Science and theology are represented as two organs belonging to Sophia. In the 
Convivio, therefore, Philosophy is Wisdom in re, Wisdom in nature. Sophia is 
underneath the tegumentum or the veil and communicates with her “eyes” and 
“smile.” She guides men with her “eyes” in their scientific achievements 
(philosophica documenta), and helps them with her “smile” to see and accept the 


250 Mario Trovato 


supernatural (spiritualia documenta) beyond natural reality ( Mon. 3:16). Man, 
on the other hand, is endowed, according to Dante, with a “gift” which gives him 
power to see “beyond human nature.” This gift, Dante says, is “the gift of the 
Holy Spirit” (Conv. 4:21:12), that is, Grace. 

Two critical corollaries derive from the above analysis. First, in the 
Convivio, as we have anticipated, the author corrects his vision of reality he had 
proposed in both the Vita nuova and doctrinal poems. By creating a new image 
of his beloved, he integrates natural and supernatural order. Since Beatrice is no 
longer a part of external and temporal reality, Dante realizes that the subject, by 
adhering directly to an eternal reality, disregards ontological goodness. In other 
words, in the Convivio, Dante rejects the Augustinian-Franciscan mystic vision 
of nature regarded as a pure phenomenology — an empty sign — the function of 
which is to signal God’s Wisdom, and converts to St. Albert’s and St. Thomas’s 
philosophy which brings together, as means and end, ontological and 
supernatural reality. Donna gentile fills a gap which is present in the Vita 
nuova; she figures Sapientia, I repeat, as offered to earthly man, the viator 
(traveller) guided by her “eyes” (science) and her “smile” (faith). Beatrice, on the 
other hand, will represent eternal Wisdom; she is greeted as “Benedictus” (not 
“benedicta") on the mount of Purgatory. Through the heavenly ascent, her eyes 
draw light directly from the Divine Source. The “quality,” which Dante’s mind 
on earth was “unable to grasp,” now becomes, as Dino Cervigni has suggested, 
“the higher source of illumination” (71). 

The second corollary is that in the Convivio Dante does not represent the 
mind as “self-propelled towards God,” as Kenelm Foster says (The Two Dante 
163), but a man with an “inborn capacity” integrated by “the gift of the Holy 
Spirit.” According to Dante, human beings actualize themselves through a 
process of threefold activity: practical activity, defined as “beatitudine quasi 
imperfetta”; speculative activity, defined as “beatitudine quasi perfetta”; and 
supematural activity, defined as ““somma” (supreme beatitude). Human beings 
enlightened by the “eyes” of Wisdom will reach the first and second beatitudes. 
Both, however, are in their own ways not perfect; they are described as “via,” 
that is, as steps in a systematic series of actions directed to the “supreme,” 
eternal beatitude. Within the existential process, the “eyes” will gaze on things 
which, as Dante says, “‘soverchiano lo ’ntelletto nostro. . . . fissamente in esso 
guardare non puo, perché quivi s’inebria l’anima” (3:8:14). Dante explains what 
these things are which “lo ’ntelletto nostro guardare non pud, cioé Dio e la 
etternitate e la prima materia” (3:15:6). What hinders the soul from becoming 
“intoxicated?” Dante answers : the “smile’ of Wisdom, that is, “le sue 
persuasioni, con le quali si vede la veritade certissimamente” (3:15.2). 

Dante unequivocally states that “la perfezione de la ragione” consists “in 
questo sguardo solamente” (3:15.5). Rationalism, as such, is not sufficient to 
quench the natural desire for knowledge; only the integration of reason and faith 
makes man perfect and happy in this world: 


Dante's Poetics of Good 251 


In queste due cose si sente quel piacere altissimo di beatitudine, lo quale @ massimo 
bene in Paradiso. 
(Conv. 3:15.2) 


Through these lines, the reader can see very clearly the distinction between 
Donna gentile and Boethius’s Philosophy, who does not “smile,” and Beatrice: 
the former is reason perfected by revelation (the “eyes” and the “smile” of 
Wisdom), she is the good, the beatitude enjoyed on earth as an anticipation of 
future life; the latter is the beatific vision of God, “massimo bene in Paradiso” 
(Conv. 3:14.2). Once again and more clearly than ever, here we can see the 
foundations of the characters of Virgil and Beatrice. Through Virgil, enlightened 
by Beatrice, man will find and re-possess his lost Paradise and will be taken to 
Beatrice, the supernatural beatitude, to enjoy God face to face. 

My conclusion is opposite to that of scholars who deny Dante’s integralism 
(Trovato, “Dante and the Tradition of the ‘two Beatitudes.’” Bruno Nardi’s 
argument for Dante’s Averroism is based on the following answer the author of 
the Convivio gives to “Forte dubitare”: 


lo desiderio naturale in ciascuna cosa é misurato secondo la possibilitade della cosa 
desiderante. . . . E perd 1’umano desiderio é misurato in questa vita a quella scienza che 
qui avere si pud, e quello punto non passa se non per errore. . . . Onde, con cid sia 
cosa che conoscere di Dio e di certe altre cose quello esse sono non sia possibile a la 
nostra natura, quello da noi naturalmente non é desiderato di sapere. 

(Conv. 3:15, 8-10) 


Nardi argues that 


> Oh 3 


questa limitazione del desiderio di sapere “‘a quella scienza che qui avere si pud” é 
certamente conforme alla dottrina di Aristotele, ma non all’insegnamento 
tradizionale teologico, né, in particolare, al pensiero di san Tommaso, il quale 
scriveva: “Non igitur quietatur naturale sciendi desiderium in cognitione Dei, qua 
scitur de ipso solum quia est.” 

(Dante 61) 


Nardi’s interpretation does not reflect the context of that passage in Convivio. In 
the context of chapters 14 and 15, Dante is talking about scientia demonstrativa 
(“li occhi de la Sapienza sono le sue demonstrazioni” 3:15.2) and scientia divina 
(“lo suo riso sono le sue persuasioni, ne le quali si dimostra la luce interiore de 
la Sapienza sotto alcuno velamento”). Scientia demonstrativa leads man to the 
ultimate causes of being which, according to Dante, “overwhelm our intellect,” 
because they are of “outstanding beauty.” It is evident that Dante affirms the 
possibility that someone, deceived by his desire and intellectual curiosity, may 
trespass the divine limits and go beyond “Hercules’ Pillars”; but he admonishes 


252 Mario Trovato 


us about the consequences of the “error”: “quivi s’inebria l’anima, si che 
incontanente, dopo di sguardare, disvia in ciascuna sua operazione” (3:8.14). The 
invention of Sophia’s “smile” — causing man’s intellectual catharsis through 
faith and hope — is generated in Dante’s awareness of human gnoseological 
limits. The author categorically states: “Questo piacere in altra cosa di qua git 
essere non pud, se non nel guardare in questi occhi e in questo riso...e in 
questo sguardo solamente \’umana perfezione s’acquista” (Conv. 3:14.3-4; 
emphasis added). Therefore he will say later: 


Matto é chi spera che nostra ragione 
possa trascorrer la infinita via 
che tiene una sustanza in tre persone. 
State contenti umana gente al quia; 
ché se possuto aveste veder tutto, 
mestier non era parturir Maria. 
(Purg. 3, 34-39) 


From the above analysis, it seems clear that Dante “greatly enhanced” the 
Vita nuova. By the invention of Donna gentile, Dante’s theory of human 
activity became suitable to a man who remains, despite grace, a human being 
dealing with ontological, political and rational reality within space and time. 
Donna gentile fills a gap existing in the Vita nuova. Reason, enlightened by 
faith, is the leading pewer of humans. In the Convivio, Dante’s world has a 
meaning: it is a “via” from time to Eternity; it is the good reality by which 
human beings may reach their human-divine perfection. Here lies the doctrinal 
foundation of the principle brought up by Virgil in Purgatorio: 


Mentre ch’elli é nel primo ben diretto, 
e ne’ secondi se stesso misura, 
esser no puo cagion di mal diletto. 
(Purg. 17, 97-99) 


Is Dante’s theory of good related to his notion of aesthetics? Yes. Coherent with 
his notion of the good, Dante defines himself in De vulgari eloquentia as “the 
poet of rectitude.” Rectitudo, the act of recta ratio, the practical intellect or 
prudence, is the faculty which, according to Albert the Great, has the “knowledge 
of good” (scientia bonorum, De bono 224). It implies two essential elements, 
knowledge and the object of knowledge, which Dante, following in the steps of 
St. Albert, identifies with the “honest” (honestum). The “honest,” called by 
Albert “formal good” (bonum formale) or “true good” (verum bonum), is for 
Dante the specifier of true love (“amore di vero bene”), the intrinsic perfection of 
being. This innate perfection of being manifests itself through the splendor and 
pulchritude of external form. 

Pulchrum, in fact, is the third component of res bona which becomes a 








Dante's Poetics of Good 253 


| funiculus triplex, an inseparable triad, verum bonum pulchrum: the goal of a 


thing’s luminous beauty is to attract and guide the mind to the verum-bonum. 
Hence, the recta ratio has a double function: to investigate and discover beauty’s 
foundation in order to direct or retract action to that determined object. For this 
reason, recta ratio is defined by Albert as “guide of action” (dux operum). 

Hence, the poet of rectitude has, above all, the function of a leader (dux), 
with the qualifications which Dante attributes to Virgil, “Maestro” (Master) and 
“Guida” (Guide), whose discourse must proceed from his “prudence” (recta ratio), 
that is, the “science of good” (scientia bonorum). In the poetics of rectitude, 
therefore, science is an essential element. This is the rationale of Dante’s 
denunciation against those who would separate or eliminate science from the 
concept of art: “Et ideo confutetur illorum stultitia, qui arte scientiaque 
immunes, de solo ingenio confidentes, ad summa summe canenda prorumpunt” 
(DVE 2:4.11; “And thus is shown up and confounded the folly of those who, 
untouched by art or knowledge, trusting solely in their own wit, rush in and 
presume to sing of highest things in highest style”). 

The adjective “scientific” does not destroy the value of poetry, because, for 
Dante, a true poet has a dual function: a poet is supposed to be a scientist in 
order to become acquainted with external reality; he has to draw back the 
tegumentum of the ontological divine reality, penetrate into its secret, and 
discover its nature and end. “Great conceptions” (optime conceptiones) are the 
result of a poet’s interpretation of nature and of his knowledge of matters related 
to it. Philosophy was the term designed to comprehend all human knowledge, 
from sciences to mythology. The function of “genius” is to turn those 
conceptions into “art.” The poetical text, at this stage, is not scientific by its 
nature, but is an “artifact of good-reality” which, through the “splendor” of its 
form, must be considered as a visible reality, equivalent to another piece of 
nature to be read and interpreted by the reader for his self-actualization. 

By “artifact” I mean what Dante calls “the veil of fables” (“‘manto di queste 
favole” Cony. 2:1.3). The “veil” is made of linguistic phonetic signs, the 
images, the plot itself through which the reader may see the referent, the “true- 
good.” The beauty of any “great conception” is given by “form or mode of 
treating” (Ep. 13: ). For Dante the artistic expression is not a “funereal form of 
reality” (Mazzotta, “Teologia” 100); it is rather the “ornament” and the 
“splendor” of thought. It must be generated by the poetical genius. 
Disassociation between sign and signified would disintegrate poetry; disharmony 
of sign and signified would disqualify poetry itself. Such a poetic composition 
would be either like lovely women who are “in a crowd with ugly ones” or “like 
a coarse woman dressed up in silk or cloth of gold” (DVE 2:1.10). As the 
ornament of nature is part of nature itself and conveys to humans the profound 
meanings of reality, so the aesthetic beauty of a text, made of luminous, colored 
images as well as sweet and harmonious sounds, is regarded by Dante as an 
essential component of a good poetical reality (DVE 2:2.9). For him the text is 


254 Mario Trovato 


not what the “I-reader” mean, that is, a subjective imposition of a meaning on a 
phenomenological juxtaposition of signs; but it is what “it means by itself.” 
Dante’s insistence on the methodological principle linking “sign” to “signified” 
persuades us that the poet considered the two elements united as effect and cause, 
like smoke and fire (DVE 1:2.1. . .). At this point, the purpose of literature, in 
Dante’s view, is analogous to the purpose of any natural thing. Dante could 
describe the finality of a literary text by using St. Albert’s words referred to the 
ontological good-reality: a text is a res, a reality which “is ordered to human 
beings’ mind and will, because whatever has been made, it has been made to 
instruct them” ("Res . . . ordinatur ad hominis iniellectum et affectum, propter 
quem instruendum omnia facta sunt”). 

Obviously, as a human product, a literary text is the expression of a reality, 
as it has been seen, interpreted and re-created by the poet himself. By the theory 
of good, Dante discovered the profound meaning of metaphysical, historical, 
meta-historical and aesthetical reality; the cohesive element which gives unity to 
fragmentary happenings on earth and, at the same time, feeds the “seed of 
happiness,” is the ““iniversal form.” The ultimate reason of man dwelling within 
reality is to choose the real value under the guide of reason and faith; only this 
choice materializes the maturation of the “seed” itself. This means to act 
rationally. On the contrary, to act irrationally means to disregard the “good of 
intellect.” This negative human attitude constitutes what I would call with 
Giuseppe Mazzotta the “antihistory” of Dante’s “historical imagination” (Poet of 
the Desert 7). 

The drama in the Divine Comedy seems to be generated by the contrast 
between the ontological “true good reality” — the divine origin of being, of 
human substance, its existential and eternal value, the “good of intellect,” its 
liberty (“lo maggior don”), its destiny, the eternal beatitude — and its tragic 
distortion, caused by man’s will in pursuit of “selfish good.” From this dramatic 
situation springs Dante’s poetry, at once lyric, epic, tragic: 


hina the Wess ase eat ma io scoppio 
dentro ad un dubbio, s’io non me ne spiego. 
(Purg. 16:53-54) 


lo mondo é ben cosi tutto diserto 
d’ogne virtute, come tu mi sone 
e di malizia gravido e coverto; 
(Purg. 16:58-60) 


The Paradise is the solution of this drama, it is a poetic representation of a 
society founded on the real True-Good, a model of living, understanding and 
loving a goodness which “cannot fail.” 


Northwestern University 





Dante's Poetics of Good 255 


Works Cited 


_ Albert the Great, Saint. Super Dionysium. Ed. Paulus Simon. Monasterii Westfalorum 


in Aedibus Aschendorff, 1972. 

. De natura boni. Ed. Ephrem Filthaut. Monasterii Westfalorum in Aedibus 
Aschendorff, 1974. 

. De bono. Ed. Henricus Kuhle et al. Monasterii Westfalorum in Aedibus 
Aschendorff, 1951. 





_ Alighieri, Dante. La commedia secondo I'antica vulgata. Ed. Giorgio Petrocchi. 4 


vols. Milano: Mondadori, 1966-67. 

. Rime. Ed. G. F. Contini. Sec. ed. Torino: Einaudi, 1946. 

. Il convivio.Opere minori. Tomo 1, parte 2. Ed. Cesare Vasoli and Domenico 
De Robertis. Milano: Ricciardi, 1988. 

. Opere minori. Vol. 1. Ed. Giorgio Barberi Squarotti et al. UTET, 1983. 

Augustine, Saint. De natura boni. Ed. Brother A. Anthony Moon. Washington: The 
Catholic U of America P, 1955. 

Barolini, Teodolinda. Dante’s Poets: Textuality and Truth in the Comedy. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1984. 

Bonaventure, Saint. Opera omnia, opuscula varia theologica. Vols. 10. Quaracchi, 
1891. 

Cervigni, Dino. Dante’s Poetry of Dreams. Firenze: Olschki, 1986. 

Celano, Anthony J. “Peter of Auvergne, Questions on Books I and II of the Ethica 
Nichomachea: A Study and Critical Edition.” Mediaeval Studies 48 (1986): 1- 
110. 

. “The Finis hominis in the Thirteenth Century Commentaries on Aristotle’s 
Nichomachean Ethics.” Archives d'Histoire doctrinale et littéraire du Moyen Age 
53 (1986): 23-53. 

De Bonfils Templer, Margherita. “La donna gentile del Convivio e il boeziano mito 
d’Orfeo.” Dante Studies 101 (1983): 123-44. 

De Robertis, Domenico. // Libro della Vita nuova. Firenze: Sansoni, 1970. 

Foster, Kenelm. The Two Dantes and Other Studies. London: Darton, Longman & 
Todd, 1977. 

Gauthier, R. A. “Trois Commentaires Averroistes sur l’Ethique a Nicomaque.” 
Archives d'Histoire doctrinale et littéraire du Moyen Age 16 (1948): 187-336. 

Giéle, Maurice, Fernand van Steenberghen and Bernard Bazan. Trois commentaires 
anonymes sur le Traité de lame d’Aristote. Philosophes Médiévaux 11 (1971). 

Gilson, Etienne. Dante et la philosophie. Paris: Vrin, 1939. 

Giocarinis, Kimon. “An Unpublished Late Thirteenth-Century Commentary on the 
Nichomachean Ethics of Aristotle.” Traditio 15 (1959): 299-326. 

Harrison, Robert Pogue. The Body of Beatrice. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins UP, 
1988. 








i Hollander, Robert. “Dante Theologus-Poeta.” Dante Studies 94 (1976): 91-136. 


. “Vita nuova: Dante’s Perceptions of Beatrice.” Dante Studies 92 (1974): 1- 
18. 
Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 





256 Mario Trovato 


“Teologia ed esegesi biblica.” Dante e la Bibbia. Atti del convegno 
internazionale promosso da “Biblia.” Ed. Giovanni Barblan. Firenze: Olschki, 
1988. 95-112. 

Marti, Mario. “Vita e morte della presunta doppia redazione della Vita Nuova.”Studi in 
onore di Alfredo Schiaffini. 2 vols Roma: Edizione dell’Ateneo, 1965. 2: 657- 
69. 
Nardi, Bruno. Dal Convivio alla Commedia. Roma: Sede dell’Istituto, 1960. 
. Dante e la cultura medievale. Roma: Laterza, 1983. 
. Sigieri di Brabante nel pensiero del Rinascimento Italiano. Roma: Edizioni 
Italiane, 1945. 
Pazzaglia, Mario. “Vita nuova.” Enciclopedia dantesca. 6 vols. Roma: Istituto della 
enciclopedia italiana fondata da Giovanni Treccani, 1970-78. 
Petrocchi, Giorgio. “Donna gentile.” Enciclopedia dantesca. 6 vols. Roma: Istituto 
della enciclopedia italiana fondata da Giovanni Treccani, 1970-78. 
Plato. Timaeus. Ed. R. D. Archer-Hind. New York: Amo, 1973. 
Siger de Brabant. Quaestiones de anima intellectiva. Ed. Bernardo Bazan. Louvain: 
Publications Universitaires, 1974. 
. Tractatus de intellectu. Louvain: Publications Universitaires, 1974. 
Stock, Brian. Myth and Science in the Twelfth Century: A Study of Bernard Sylvester. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1972. 
Thomas Aquinas. De unitate intellectus contra Averroistas. Trans. Beatrice H. Zedler. 
Milwaukee: Marquette UP, 1968. 
Trovato, Mario. “Dante and the Tradition of the ‘Two Beatitudes.’” Lectura Dantis 
Newberriana. Northwestern UP, 1988. 19-36. 
Wetherbee, Winthrop. Platonism and Poetry in the Twelfth Century. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1972. 
William of Conches. Glosae super Platonem. Ed. Edouard Jeauneau. Paris: Librairie 
Philosophique J. Vrin, 1965. 

















John A. Scott 
Dante and Philosophy 


The view that the Comedy represents a rejection on the author’s part of his 
earlier “flirtation” with philosophy and that the poem is to be seen as a palinode 
or recantation of what he had expressed with such passionate enthusiasm in the 
Convivio seems to be shared by a majority of American Dante scholars. 

In important articles both published in 1973, leaders of this group, John 
Freccero and Robert Hollander, came to the conclusion that the episode in the 
second canto of Purgatorio where Casella intones Dante’s poem in praise of 
philosophy, "Amor che ne la mente mi ragiona,” and the pilgrims are rebuked by 
Cato, should be interpreted as a pointer to the Comedy’s underlying hostility to 
the Convivio. In an aside, Hollander asserted: “The Ulysses of the Divina 
Commedia is es recurrently important as he is because he gives expression to 
Dante’s recrimination for his own past folle volo — the Convivio” (“Purgatorio 
II” 99 n. 15). Likewise, the dream episode in Purgatorio 19 and the words “To 
volsi Ulisse del suo cammin vago/ al canto mio . . .” are, according to 
Hollander, “the lines that would perhaps best support my claim that the 
Convivio was Dante’s Ulyssean embracing of false philosophy” (“Purgatorio II” 
102 n. 26). From that standpoint, the “‘scoglio” from which the purgatorial 
sinners must free themselves, according to Cato’s command (Purg. 2:122-23), 
since it prevents them from seeing God, is — in the pilgrim’s case — “a 
particular thing. . . . it is his Convivio” (“Purgatorio II” 105).! This 
interpretation of the Convivio and the role it played in Dante’s career has 
prevailed, down to Franco Fido’s categorical statement in Ravenna: “In questo 
senso... tutto il Purgatorio, per essere come ha scritto Singleton un viaggio 
verso Beatrice, deve anche essere una ricantazione 0 ritrattazione del Convivio” 
(“‘Dall’antipurgatorio al paradiso terrestre” 72).? 


1 See Freccero, “Casella’s Song (Purgatorio II, 112),” originally published in Dante Studies, 91 
(1973), 73-80 and now in Freccero, Dante (esp. 187: “the episode constitutes a partial 
correction of an important thesis of the Convivio”). 

2 See Thompson, “Dante’s Ulysses and the Allegorical Joumey” (for whom the Ulysses episode 
is “a denunciation of his own former pursuit of ‘virtute e conoscenza’ in his philosophical- 
ethical treatise, the Convivio”); Cassell, “Failure, Pride and Conversion in /nferno I’; Barolini, 
Dante’s Poets (158: “Dante went off the path [temporarily] when he allowed himself to be 
overly consoled by the sweetness of Philosophy in the Convivio. Lady Philosophy was indeed 
a mistake”). It must of course be clear to everyone that this view is not the exclusive monopoly 
of American scholars. For example, that great Italian expert on medieval thought, Bruno Nardi, 
in a magisterial survey, stated that “@ appunto Beatrice che nella Commedia rimproverera al suo 
fedele ritomnato a lei dopo un lungo errore, anche questa infatuazione filosofica, cominciata con 




















Dante and Philosophy 259 


| Let us then examine the evidence. First of all, by looking at the internal 
| evidence of Dante’s works — Convivio, Monarchia and Comedy —, and then by 
setting Dante’s activity as far as possible in its historical context. In order to 
preserve some kind of balance, I would simply ask readers before they join me in 
an analysis of Dante’s position in the Convivio to remember the judgement 
given by Etienne Gilson: namely, that “if Dante really experienced a crisis of 
pure philosophism, that crisis was over when he wrote the Banquet” (Dante the 
Philosopher 159). 

Let us review at least some of the evidence concerning the claims of 
philosophy and those of revelation. In Convivio II.iv.16, with regard to angels, 
Dante writes: “Né si meravigli alcuno se queste e altre ragioni che di cid avere 
potemo, non sono del tutto dimostrate; che perdO medesimamente dovemo 
ammirare loro eccellenza — la quale soverchia gli occhi de la mente umana, si 
come dice lo Filosofo nel secondo de la Metafisica —, e affermar loro essere” 
(emphasis mine), while adding in II.iv.17 that like the eyes of a bat, “non 
altrimenti sono chiusi li nostri occhi intellettuali, mentre che l’anima é legata e 
incarcerata per li organi del nostro corpo.” In II.v.17, Dante confesses his 
ignorance with regard to the origin of celestial motion: “Dio lo sa; che a me pare 
presuntuoso a giudicare.” More specifically, when discussing the soul’s 
immortality: “Ancora, n’accerta la dottrina veracissima di Cristo, la quale é via, 
verita e luce. . . . Questa dottrina dico che ne fa certi sopra tutte altre ragioni, 
perd che quello la n’hae data che la nostra immortalitade vede e misura. La quale 
noi non potemo perfettamente vedere mentre che ’l nostro immortale col mortale 
é mischiato; ma vedemolo per fede perfettamente, e per ragione lo vedemo con 
ombra d’oscuritade, la quale incontra per mistura del mortale con l’immortale . . 
. € io cosi credo, cosi affermo e cosi certo sono ad altra vita migliore dopo questa 
passare .. .” (II.vili.15-16; emphasis mine). No clearer statement of the 
superiority of faith could surely be found than the finely measured parallel: “ma 
vedemolo per fede perfettamente, e per ragione lo vedemo con ombra 
d’oscuritade”. 

Certainly, anyone familiar with the Convivio’s passionate championing of 
the claims of philosophy will agree with Kenelm Foster’s considered judgement 
that Dante “sometimes stresses very hard — as hard, perhaps, as a professed 
Christian could — the distance between man and God and the at least pro 
tempore sufficiency for man of natural objects and secular concerns” (“Religion 
and Philosophy in Dante” 63). 

While taking all this into account, let us continue our search. In Convivio 





l’amore per la ‘donna gentile’ del Convivio .. .” (“Filosofia e teologia ai tempi di Dante in 
rapporto al pensiero del poeta" 135). See Battaglia, “Il razionalismo del Convivio,” in 
Esemplarita e antagonismo nel pensiero di Dante 121-130, and — for the whole question — the 
valuable introduction by Vasoli to the edition of the Convivio in Dante Alighieri, Opere minori 
(esp. pp. liv ff.). 


260 John A. Scott 


II.xiv.21, Dante says of theology: “e questa chiama perfetta perché perfettamente 
ne fa il vero vedere nel quale si cheta l’anima nostra.”? In the Third Treatise, 
commenting on the following verses: 


E puossi dir che ’] suo aspetto giova 
a consentir cid che par maraviglia; 
onde la nostra fede é aiutata: 

pero fu tal da etterno ordinata. 
(“Amor che ne la mente” 51-54) 


Dante writes: 


narro come ella [Philosophy] é utile a tutte le genti, dicendo che l’aspetto suo aiuta la 
nostra fede, la quale pit che tutte |’altre cose é utile a tutta l’umana generazione, si 
come quella per la quale campiamo da etternale morte e acquistiamo etternale vita. E la 
nostra fede aiuta; perd che, con cid si cosa che principalissimo fondamento de la fede 
nostra siano miracoli fatti per colui che fu crocifisso — lo quale creo la nostra 
ragione, e volle che fosse minore del suo potere —, e fatti poi nel nome suo per li 
santi suoi; e molti siano si ostinati che di quelli miracoli per alcuna nebbia siano 
dubbiosi, e non possano credere miracolo alcuno sanza visibilmente avere di cid 
esperienza; e questa donna sia una cosa visibilmente miraculosa, de la quale li occhi de 
li uomini cotidianamente possono esperienza avere, ed a noi faccia possibili li altri: 
manifesto @ che questa donna, col suo mirabile aspetto, la nostra fede aiuta. E perd 
ultimamente dico che da etterno . . . fu ordinata ne la mente di Dio in testimonio de la 
fede a coloro che in questo tempo vivono. 

(Convivio, II.vii.15-17; emphasis mine) 


Dante’s argument is highly original in its transference of attributes traditionally 
reserved for God’s Eternal Wisdom, His Word, to philosophy. Nevertheless, I 
have emphasized the two clauses which exemplify the writer’s orthodoxy: it is 
faith that saves us from eternal damnation and brings us to eternal life; it was 
God who endowed human beings with reason.* 

Then, in the eighth chapter of the Third Treatise, Dante begins to deal with 


3 For a full discussion of Dante’s characterization of theology as “colomba” (not “regina” or 
“domina”), see Gilson, Dante the Philosopher 115-120. 

4 Two simple observations may be made. The first, that from the very beginning of the Vita 
nuova (composed — it should be noted — about the time of his initiation to philosophy, see 
Cony. ILxii.7), Dante rejects Guido Cavalcanti’s view of love as an irrational force by stating 
that his love for Beatrice was always accompanied by “lo fedele consiglio de la ragione” (Vita 
nuova 2:9). This tendency to seek harmony between elements that to others seemed in radical 
opposition (see especially the third stanza of Cavalcanti’s “Donna me prega”) led the mature 
Dante to reject a similar opposition and conflict between reason and faith (see the extremes of 
radical Averroism on the one hand and of Franciscan theology on the other). Dante could not 
accept that his God-given faculty of reason could be in conflict with either of the two great 
motivating forces in his life, religion and love. 








Dante and Philosophy 261 


the limitations of the human intellect (“Amor che ne la mente” 55-62, “Elle 
_ soverchian lo nostro intelletto / come raggio di sole un frale viso”). A quotation 
from Ecclesiasticus (3:22) is translated as “‘Pidi alte cose di te non dimanderai e 
pit forti cose di te non cercherai; ma quelle cose che Dio ti comando, pensa, e in 
pill sue opere non sie curioso’, cioé sollicito” (Convivio III.viii.2). This theme 
is developed — once again, in an original manner — in the last chapter of the 
Third Book, where Dante takes up the question “come cid sia, che la sapienza 
possa fare l’uomo beato, non potendo a lui perfettamente certe cose mostrare” 
(III.xv.7). He solves the problem by asserting “che lo desiderio naturale in 
ciascuna cosa é@ misurato secondo la possibilitade de la cosa desiderante....E 
pero l’umano desiderio é misurato in questa vita a quella scienza che qui avere si 
pud, e quello punto non passa se non per errore, lo quale é di fuori di naturale 
intenzione” (III.xv.8-9). In this foreshadowing of one of the themes of the 
Fourth Treatise — that the desire for knowledge is not doomed to be frustrated as 
is the desire for wealth —, Dante is close to the standpoint of Albertus Magnus, 
who claimed “Ratio . . . felicitatis tota salvatur in eo vivo ante mortem.”> 
_ Nevertheless, the most convincing interpretation of his position is Kenelm 
_ Foster’s masterly summing up: “va tuttavia ricordato che nello stesso Convivio 
Dante afferma, da un diverso punto di vista, che l’umano desiderio non trova mai 
appagamento in questa vita. . . . Per questo l’uso di umano desiderio in III xv 9 
va inteso non in senso assoluto, ma strettamente connesso alle condizioni della 
. vita terrena. D’altro canto @ anche vero che nel Convivio e ancora, 
indirettamente, nella Monarchia (III xv 8) Dante sottolinea, pit che non faccia T. 
[San Tommaso], la relativa adeguatezza per 1’uomo, in questa vita, di una 
conoscenza meramente filosofica di Dio per li suoi effetti (Cv IV xxii 13).”® 
I have chosen these quotations from the Second and Third Books of the 
Convivio, before moving on to the Fourth, because I believe scholars must now 
acknowledge the force of Maria Corti’s arguments, which make it appear likely 
that the first three treatises were composed during “il periodo forlivese e veronese 
del 1303 e forse anche prima a meta del 1304 circa", while the Fourth Book was 





5 Albertus Magnus, Eth., 1.vii.14 (quoted by Vasoli in his commentary, 480, n. 7 of edition 
quoted). Nardi quotes Thomas Aquinas, Cont. Gent. III.50: “non .. . quietatur naturale sciendi 
desiderium in cognitione Dei, qua scitur de ipso solum quia est,” in order to conclude that there 
exists a “recisa opposizione fra S. Tommaso e Dante su un punto di tanta importanza” (Dal 
‘Convivio’ alla ‘Commedia’ 80). Nevertheless, the same scholar repeatedly affirms his view 
that, in the Convivio, “Ben lungi dal rivelarci una tendenza razionalistica, Dante ci palesa 
piuttosto, in questo suo concepire il vero come trascendente la mente umana, un atteggiamento 
profondamente mistico” (“Dante e la filosofia,” Nel mondo di Dante 217). 

6 Foster, “Tommaso d’ Aquino,” Enciclopedia Dantesca 646. See in the same article (647): “una 
volta concepita la vita ultraterrena non solo come lo stato di piena soddisfazione raggiungibile 
dall’intelletto, ma anche come |’entrata in una natura pid che umana, é naturale che Dante 
giungesse — almeno temporaneamente — a identificare nella vita terrena la specifica 
realizzazione della natura umana... .” 


262 John A. Scott 


written — after the De Vulgari Eloquentia and after Dante’s stay in Bologna — 
at some time during the years 1306-1308. In support of this hypothesis, Corti 
points to the essential differences between the fourth and the preceding three 
sections on the “livello ideologico . . . tematico,” as well as “‘il reticolo delle 
fonti, i livelli formali (sintattico, stilistico, lessicale).”? 

In the Fourth Book, Dante sets out to confute the argument that man’s 
thirst for knowledge is doomed to be frustrated: “che, avvegna che molti desiderii 
si compiano ne lo acquisto de la scienza, mai non si viene a |’ultimo” 
(IV.xiii.6). In his reply, he refers as follows to the passage just quoted from the 
Third Book: “ché li nostri desiderii naturali, si come di sopra nel terzo trattato é 
mostrato, sono a certo termine discendenti; e quello de la scienza é naturale, si 
che certo termine quello compie, avvegna che pochi per male camminare 
compiano la giornata” (IV.xiii.7). This reiteration of the natural limitations to 
human knowledge is followed by a highly significant quotation from the Bible: 
“E pero Paulo dice: ‘Non pit sapere che sapere si convegna, ma sapere a misura.’ 
Si che, per qualunque modo lo desiderare de la scienza si prende, o generalmente 
O particularmente, a perfezione viene. E pero la scienza ha perfetta e nobile 
perfezione, e per suo desiderio sua perfezione non perde, come le maladette 
ricchezze” (IV.xiii.9). Again, in the twenty-second chapter, Dante is careful — 
while proclaiming the superiority of the speculative life over the practical — to 
add: “E questa parte in questa vita perfettamente lo suo uso avere non puote — lo 
quale avera in Dio ch’é sommo intelligibile —, se non in quanto considera lui e 
mira lui per li suoi effetti” (IV.xxii.13). This is followed by a highly personal 
allegorical interpretation of the visit to the Sepulchre by the three Marys (Mark 
16), which sees in them “le tre sette de la vita attiva, cioé li Epicurei, li Stoici e 
li Peripatetici, che . . . domandano lo Salvatore, cioé la beatitudine, e non la 
truovano .. .” (IV.xxii.15). Instead, they find an angel: “Questo angelo é questa 
nostra nobilitade che da Dio viene . . . che ne la nostra ragione parla, e dice a 
ciascuna di queste sette, cioé a qualunque va cercando beatitudine ne la vita attiva, 
che non @ qui. . . . la beatitudine precedera noi in Galilea, cioé ne la 
speculazione” (IV.xxii.16). Once again, however, we are reminded that “ne la 
nostra contemplazione Dio sempre precede, né mai lui giugnere potemo qui, lo 
quale é nostra beatitudine somma. . . . E cosi appare che nostra beatitudine .. . 


7 Corti, “Distanza testuale e cronologica del trattato IV?,” inLa felicita mentale 123-45. While 
accepting the bulk of the evidence offered by Corti, I cannot agree that “In IV, xxii egli non é@ 
pit convinto dalla tesi aristotelico-albertina [i.e., that “l’umano desiderio é misurato in questa 
vita a quella scienza che qui avere si pud,” II.xv.4-9], ma @ passato alla tomistica: |’intelletto 
“in questa vita perfettamente lo suo uso avere non puote — lo quale é vedere in sé Iddio” (127). 

Already in II.viii.15, as I have shown, Dante pointed to the insufficiency of human reason: “ma 
vedemolo per fede perfettamente, e per ragione lo vedemo con ombra d’oscuritade” — that is 
surely an admission of the limitations of human reason. As Kenelm Foster pointed out on more 
than one occasion, it is always essential to take into account the different perspectives that 
influence Dante’s statements (even in the same work). 








Dante and Philosophy 263 


prima trovare potemo quasi imperfetta ne la vita attiva, cioé ne le operazioni de 
le morali virtudi, e poi perfetta quasi ne le operazioni de le intellettuali” 
(IV .xxii.17-18) — where the chiasmus “quasi imperfetta . . . perfetta quasi” is 
yet another indication of Dante’s acceptance and affirmation of the limitations 
found even in the relative happiness or perfection offered by philosopical 
speculation.® 

It must of course be remembered that, as Dante himself tells us, he had 
encountered a number of difficulties in his philosophical investigations. As a 
result, his earlier passionate enthusiasm had been moderated when he came to 
write the Fourth Treatise. Certainly, as Maria Corti has observed, “‘le citazioni di 
fonti religiose sommate [nel trattato IV] superano le aristoteliche, mentre nel 
trattato III erano meno della meta”, and “L’ordine é fatto ormai nel pensiero di 
Dante, esso matura appunto nel IV del Convivio, dove si sposano il modo 
filosofico e il teologico, dove tomisticamente trionfa la gerarchia” (Corti 131; 
139). 


Nevertheless, when all modifications and nuances have been taken into 
account, it is impossible not to agree with Gilson’s verdict that there is no 
evidence of a purely rationalist crisis in the Convivio. At this point, it is surely 
necessary to undertake something which I believe most scholars have failed to 
do: namely, to examine Dante’s own explanation of the difficulties he 
encountered in his love for Lady Philosophy. 

In lines 5-7 of “Le dolci rime d’amor ch’i’ solia,” the poet speaks of “li atti 
disdegnosi e feri/ che ne la donna mia / sono appariti . . .”; and in Convivio 
IV.i.8 Dante tells us that he decided to refute a common error about the nature of 
nobility, “con cid fosse cosa che questa mia donna un poco li suoi dolci 
sembianti trasmutasse a me, massimamente in quelle parti dove io mirava e 
cercava se la prima materia de li elementi era da Dio intesa.” It is not my 
purpose to enter into the controversy regarding the precise meaning and 
implications of “se la prima materia de li elementi era da Dio intesa” (for which I 
refer the reader to the notes in the Vasoli edition, pp. 529-31). What is essential 
to my purpose, however, is to focus on these words and to judge their 
significance for our present inquiry. 

That Dante took his allegory seriously is clear from his polemical statement 
in the twenty-fifth chapter of the Vita nuova: 


8 If we compare this balanced evaluation with the assertion in II.xi.14 — “fine de la Filosofia é 
quella eccellentissima dilezione che non pate alcuna intermissione o vero difetto, cioé vera 
felicitade che per contemplazione de la veritade s’acquista” —, we may be tempted to posit a 
contradiction (or rectification). If, however, we take into account the comparison found in the 
first part of that passage: “E si come fine de l’amistade vera é la buona dilezione, che procede dal 
convivere secondo l’umanitade propriamente”, it is clear that Dante is stating an ideal — which 
is obviously contradicted in pratice (in both cases). It would therefore be more prudent to accept 
the fact that a different viewpoint is given in each context. 


264 John A. Scott 


né quelli che rimano deono parlare cosi non avendo alcuno ragionamento in loro di 
quello che dicono; perd che grande vergogna sarebbe a colui che rimasse cose sotto 
vesta di figura o di colore rettorico, e poscia, domandato, non sapesse denudare le sue 
parole da cotale vesta, in guisa che avessero verace intendimento. E questo mio primo 
amico e io ne sapemo bene di quelli che cosi rimano stoltamente. 


Here, in Convivio IV with its farewell to allegory and the “dolci rime d’amor,” 
the poet tells us that it was his lady’s “atti disdegnosi e feri” that made him 
desist for a time from frequenting her presence. In other words, never at any 
moment does the poet imply that the seduction of her charms was such that he 
was overwhelmed by his passion for her. On the contrary, at the beginning he 
had found her “fiera . . . e disdegnosa” (Convivio III.xv.19; see “Voi che savete 
ragionar d’ Amore”), then she had appeared as the “essemplo d’umiltate” ("Amor 
che ne la mente,” |. 70), but once more Dante became the target for her “atti 
disdegnosi e feri,” which now make him turn away from “le dolci rime” to “rima 
aspr’e sottile” and from arduous metaphysical problems to the ethical question of 
what constitutes true nobility. There is nothing in this story to justify — or 
even make plausible — our interpreting it as an account of an infatuation that 
led Dante to be unfaithful either to Beatrice or orthodoxy. 

As Maria Simonelli has observed regarding “lo pseudo problema critico .. . 
se il razionalismo, che certa critica vi scopre, possa segnare lo smarrire della 
diritta via fino alla selva oscura,” if we take seriously Dante’s intention of 
“giovare al libello giovanile [the Vita nuova] attraverso il Convivio e a dare tutta 
una sottile trama aneddotica di giustificazione” it is hardly possible to imagine 
that he also intended to turn it into “‘il libro della crisi e del traviamento” if he 
hoped that it would restore his good name in exile: “ripristinare la fama che 
poteva essere oscurata dall’aver lui seguito cosi tanta passione. . . . non conviene 
dimenticare che noi parliamo di crisi nella vita di Dante perché egli ne ha parlato, 
perché la Commedia é la rappresentazione in immagini di tale crisi e del suo 
superamento attraverso la ratio . . .” (Simonelli, “Convivio” 200). 

We must now turn to the Comedy — where Aristotle is honoured in Limbo 
as “’1 maestro di color che sanno” (Inf. 4:131). There is certainly nothing in the 
allegorical “prologue” scene which points to a philosophical aberration at the 
time of the Convivio. The evidence adduced for such an interpretation lies in 
readings of Inferno 26 which see in Ulysses’ mad flight a parallel for Dante’s 
own quest for knowledge in the Convivio. Other evidence is sought (as has 
already been mentioned) in Cato’s rebuke to the souls in ante-Purgatory for 
taking such delight in Casella’s rendition of “Amor che ne la mente mi ragiona,” 
in the siren that appears in Dante’s dream during the second night on the 
mountain (Purgatorio 19), and in Beatrice’s accusations when she confronts her 
lover in the Earthly Paradise. Here, the phrases “questi si tolse a me, e diessi 
altrui” (Purg. 30:126), “e volse i passi suoi per via non vera,/ imagini di ben 


| 
| 





Dante and Philosophy 265 


seguendo false,/ che nulla promession rendono intera” (Purg. 30:130-32), 
together with Dante’s admission “Le presenti cose / col falso lor piacer volser 
miei passi,/ tosto che ’! vostro viso si nascose” in Purg. 31:34-36, as well as 
Beatrice’s denunciation of “quella scuola c’hai seguitata” in Purgatorio 33:85-90 
— all these may be taken to point to a philosophical “school” which had led 
Dante in the early 1290s to go down a “‘via non vera.” 

Such a hypothesis seems at first sight quite reasonable; yet any hypothesis 
must be tested against all the evidence available — in other words, the context of 
the entire poem and its message. And it must surely be a basic law of critical 
interpretation that no episode can contradict the hypothesis. 

What, then, of the poet’s placing of Siger de Brabant in his Paradiso? Few 
upholders of the hypothesis that the Comedy is a palinode and anti-Convivio 
have tackled this problem. The problem is of course that in Siger we have the 
leading exponent of thirteenth-century radical Aristotelianism, one whose ideas 
were attacked by Thomas Aquinas in the latter’s De unitate intellectus contra 
averroistas (1270) — that very same Saint Thomas who is made by our poet to 
celebrate the beatification of 


. .. la luce etterna di Sigieri, 

che, leggendo nel Vico de li Strami, 
silogizz6 invidiosi veri. 

(Par. 10:136-38). 


Rivers of ink have flowed over the problem of finding a radical Aristotelian 
philosopher in the Paradiso — one, moreover, who upheld ideas on the eternity 
of the world (denying the creation ex nihilo of Christian teaching), on astral 
determinism and other matters, ideas that were condemned by the Archbishop of 
Paris, Etienne Tempier in 1270, while Siger was summoned to appear before the 
French Inquisitor, Simon du Val, in 1276. 

The scholar who has devoted most time and thought to the problem is 
surely Bruno Nardi (who began his long and distinguished career in 1912 with a 
long article on “Sigieri di Brabante e le fonti della filosofia di Dante”). According 
to Nardi, by placing Siger among the spirits of the wise in the fourth heaven of 
his Paradiso Dante wanted to “‘rialzare la memoria d’un onesto pensatore . . . la 
quale giaceva sotto il peso dei colpi inferti dall’invidia, e mostrarci riconciliati 
nel cospetto dell’eterna verita dei grandi pensatori a lui cari, senza settarismo di 
scuola” (Nardi, Nel mondo di Dante 2A4).? As F. Coppleston points out: “To be 


9 Singleton, in his notes to Paradiso 12:140, points out the parallel between Siger and Joachim 
of Fiore, adding: “Both were not only controversial figures, but Thomas Aquinas . . . engaged in 
an attack on Siger’s ideas, and Bonaventura attacked the Spirituals of the Joachimite order. The 
poet’s parallelism expresses a spirit of lofty conciliation and heavenly charity” (ad loc.). 
Unfortunately, Singleton makes no mention of the problem of Siger’s glorification in his 
commentary to the tenth canto, although the further volume of essays planned but interrupted by 


266 John A. Scott 


plausible, any explanation must be consistent with the fact that Dante... 
places Avicenna and Averroes in Limbo . . . and Siger in heaven” (203 n. 2). 

Mention must be made of the fact that the author of JI fiore attributed 
Siger’s death while under house arrest in the papal Curia to the wiles of 
hypocrisy (Falsembiante: sonnet XCII.9-11, “Mastro Sighier non ando guari 
lieto:/ a ghiado il fe’ morire a gran dolore / nella corte di Roma, ad Orbivieto”). 
However, neither Nardi’s explanation of letting bygones be bygones in heaven 
“senza settarismo di scuola” nor the still doubtful attribution of J] fiore to Dante 
can explain the word “veri” in Par. 10:138. It is a fundamental principle of Dante 
scholarship that the Florentine poet chose his words with great care: it is 
therefore inconceivable that he could have chosen the sacred word “truths” and 
placed it in the mouth of Aquinas with reference to his opponent’s (suspect) 
teaching without realizing the extent of its connotations. In fact, it is quite clear 
that the poet was fully aware of the controversial nature of Siger’s doctrine from 
the epithet he chose to accompany the word: they are “invidiosi veri,” in the 
sense that those truths (truths recognized by Dante’s Thomas Aquinas) earned 
him envy and persecution. 

Fiorenzo Forti is perhaps nearer the mark when he emphasizes Dante’s 
empathy with that “sete di conoscenza che fa di Sigieri un magnanimo del 
sapere, un eroe della speculazione. . . . par logico che egli [Dante] tendesse a 
illuminare l’atteggiamento morale di un pensatore che sentiva di dover dibattere 
fino in fondo le verita della ragione accanto alle verita di fede” — so that, with 
Aquinas and Albertus Magnus, Siger represents “il partito dei filosofi, il partito 
degli aristotelici, che celebra il suo pacato trionfo sugli antidialettici attardati, gli 
agostiniani diffidenti, i teologi chiusi. . . .”!° 

While we know virtually nothing about Dante’s knowledge of Siger’s 
writings or of a possible visit to Paris,!! we must be aware of Siger’s 
emblematic position in the great philosophical debate that took place during 
Dante’s lifetime, the fact that he stood for “the autonomy and value of pure (i.e. 
natural) philosophy and an attachment to what is thought to be the genuine 
teaching of Aristotle . . . uninfluenced by experience or religious teaching” 
(Knowles 276). The answer surely lies along the path indicated by that great 


death might well have furnished “solutions to such problems” (Paradiso 2, Commentary 2: 610). 

See also: Dronke, The Medieval Poet and His World 407-30, and Dante and Medieval Latin 

Traditions 97-100; 143-44. 

10 Forti, Magnanimitade 78. See Foster, The Two Dantes and Other Studies 133-36. Borsellino, 
“Un pronostico per Guido (Inferno X 63),” reiterates the idea that Dante’s placing of Siger 
among “i sapienti beati é la testimonianza . . . del suo disdegno del settarismo teologico . . .” 
(179). 

11 Recently, Bec, while recognizing the importance of Villani’s, Boccaccio’s and Benvenuto da 
Imola’s statements that Dante visited Paris during his exile, has concluded that the whole 
question “resta tutt’ora aperta” (“Dante e Parigi,” in Dante e le cittd dell’esilio 147, on the next 
page Bec reminds us that the “Vico de li Strami” in the Latin Quarter is now called “Rue Dante”). 








| 
| 
i 
| 
. 
| 





Dante and Philosophy 267 


master, Etienne Gilson, who was careful to point out that “There is nothing of 
the extremist in Siger. He is not a rationalist in revolt against faith. He is not 
even a man who takes a delight in noting a dissension between his reason and 
his faith. . . . When the conclusions to which he is led by the philosophy of 
Aristotle contradict the teaching of faith, Siger contents himself with 
propounding them qua the conclusions of philosophy, but he maintains at the 
same time that the teachings of faith are the true ones.”!? After thoroughly 
examining the question, Gilson concludes: “The least . . . that Dante can have 
known about Siger is that that teacher had maintained a rigorous distinction 
between the philosophical and the theological orders” (266). Dante therefore 
placed Siger in his Paradiso not merely because he was a “magnanimo del 
sapere” but more specifically because Siger reminds us — even in the harmony 
of paradise — of Dante’s vision of a world order based on the essential autonomy 
of philosophy, the mutual independence of reason and faith, which guarantees 
both the Emperor’s authority and his independence in the temporal realm (Gilson 
257-81). 

This leads us to what Francesco Mazzoni has called the basic allegory of 
Dante’s poem: “il viaggio di Dante personaggio nei regni dell’Oltretomba altro 
non significa, in via d’immagini poetiche, che la conquista hic et nunc d’una 
duplice, vitale esperienza e di una duplice felicita (nell’ambito dei ‘due fini’ 
assegnati provvidenzialmente all’umanita) dapprima nell’ordine della Natura, 
dietro la guida di Virgilio (Inferno e Purgatorio) e poi in quello della Grazia. . . 
.”13 It is to be found most succinctly stated in the final chapter of the Monarchia. 

There, we are told that man alone of all creatures is composed of both 
corruptible and incorruptible elements: consequently, humanity alone “in duo 
ultima ordinetur . . . beatitudinem scilicet huius vite, que . . . per terrestrem 
paradisum figuratur; et beatitudinem vite ecterne . . . que per paradisum celestem 
intelligi datur” (Monarchia III.xv.6-7). It must be led to these two beatitudes by 
different means (“diversa media”), to the first by the teachings of philosophy 


12 Gilson, Dante the Philosopher 259-260 (see n. 2, where Gilson highlights the formula used 
by Siger in his Quaestiones de Anima: “secundum veritatem [of Faith] quae mentiri non potest.” 
See Forti’s quotation (76-77) taken from the same work: “mihi dubium fuit a longo tempore quid 
vi naturalis rationis in praedicto problemate sit tenendum, et quid senserit Philosophus de dicta 
quaestione et ideo, in tali dubio, fidei adhaerendum est quae omnem rationem humanam superat.” 
It must also be recalled that Siger referred to Aquinas and his master Albert as “praecipui viri in 
philosophia” (Gilson 262 n. 2). In recent years, Corti has emphasized the influence of Siger and 
Boetius of Dacia on Dante’s thought. Corti accepts van Steenberghen’s hypothesis of “una 
evoluzione . . . verso l’ortodossia e un avvicinamento progressivo alla posizioni tomistiche. . . 
. ’'abbandono definitivo . . . del monopsichismo” (Dante a un nuovo crocevia 99). See the same 
scholar’s La felicita mentale 141: “Alberto e Sigieri dovevano di necessita essere nel canto X del 
Paradiso uno alla destra e uno alla sinistra di S. Tommaso. . . . Nell’ordine l’universo culturale 
dei tre ha cooperato alla fatale impresa”; also, van Steenberghen, Maitre Siger de Brabant). 

13 Mazzoni, “Teoresi e prassi in Dante politico", in Dante Alighieri, Monarchia, Epistole 

politiche xci-xcii (but see the whole section, Ixxxviii-xcv). 


268 John A. Scott 


(‘documenta phylosophica”) accompanied by the moral and intellectual virtues, 
to the second by “documenta spiritualia” and the theological virtues (III.xv.8). 
Hence, two guides have been given to humanity to lead it to these 
complementary but distinct ends: the Pope, “qui secundum revelata humanum 
genus perduceret ad vitam ecternam,” and the Emperor, “qui secundum 
phylosophica documenta genus humanum ad temporalem felicitatem dirigeret” 
(III.xv.10). The latter goal is the supreme concern of the Emperor, “curator 
orbis,” who must quell the tide of greed that constitutes the greatest obstacle to 
humanity’s reaching the goal of happiness in this world (III.xv11). 

This is indeed the fundamental message of the Comedy, where Virgil — the 
herald of the Empire and a mouthpiece for the phylosophica documenta of 
Christian Aristotelianism — leads the pilgrim through Hell and Purgatory to the 
temporal beatitude found in Eden, “que . . . per terrestrem paradisum figuratur.” 
It is therefore wrong to imply, as Giovanni Gentile did in 1904, that “la 
Monarchia rappresenta un passo notevolissimo oltre la Commedia. In politica 
Dante si affranca da ogni sovrannaturalismo. ... La Monarchia é il primo atto di 
ribellione alla trascendenza scolastica” (Gentile 50).!4 Nor can we accept Gilson’s 
dramatic conclusion: “Under the pressure of Dante’s political passion, the unity 
of mediaeval Christendom, with its subservience to the Popes, has now been 
abruptly and utterly shattered.”!5 

Instead, we would do well to meditate on the passage from Aquinas first 
highlighted by Mazzoni in 1966: “Beatitudo imperfecta, quae in hac vita haberi 
potest, potest ab homine acquiri per sua naturalia, eo modo quo et virtus, in 
cuius operatione consistit. . . . Sed beatitudo hominis perfecta, sicut supra 
dictum est, consistit in visione divinae essentiae.”!© As Mazzoni points out, the 
repetition of certain phrases makes it likely that “Dante abbia avuto sott’occhio 
anche questo passo: usufruito perd senza tener conto della indubbia 
gerarchizzazione operata da Tommaso. . . .”!7 It is moreover necessary to 


14 Gentile, “Dante nella storia del pensiero italiano,” now in Studi su Dante 50. The frequently 
quoted “primo atto di ribellione” would surely have been better reserved for Marsilius of Padua’s 
Defensor pacis. 

5 Gilson, Dante the Philosopher 211 (cf. 212, “just as he split mediaeval Christendom into 
two camps, Dante also completely shatters the unity of Christian wisdom . . .”). See Goudet, La 
politique de Dante 105: “Une réorientation devra réunir en une nouvelle synthése ce dualisme qui 
ne peut étre définitif.” 

16 Thomas Aquinas, Susmwna Theologica, I-II q. 5 art. 5. “Respondeo dicendum” (quoted by F. 
Mazzoni xciii). 

17 Mazzoni xciii; on the following page, we find another significant passage quoted from St 
Thomas’s Summa Theologica (1-IL, q. 62, a.l, ad. R.): “Est autem duplex hominis beatitudo sive 
felicitas. . . . Una quidem proportionata humanae naturae, ad quam scilicet homo pervenire 
potest per principia suae naturae.” See the same scholar’s judgement in “Gli Atti del Convegno 
Internazionale di Studi Danteschi": “Dante, in un punto cruciale della Monarchia come quello 
ove vengono teorizzati i ‘duo fines’ costitutivi alla stessa natura umana, assume ed esprime 
posizioni che Tommaso non avrebbe certo condannato e respinto” (104); see also Vinay’s claim 








Dante and Philosophy 269 


remember that Dante’s firm final statement concerning the Emperor’s divinely 
appointed role “ab Ilo solo prefectus, qui est omnium spiritualium et 
temporalium gubernator” (Mon. III.xv.18) is preceded by the caution that the 
“romanus Princeps in aliquo romano Pontifici . . . subiaceat, cum mortalis ista 
felicitas quodammodo ad inmortalem felicitatem ordinetur” (Mon. III.xv.17) —a 
caveat, itself foreshadowed by Mon. III.iv.20: “Sic ergo dico quod regnum 
temporale non recipit esse a spirituali, nec virtutem que est eius auctoritas, nec 
etiam operationem simpliciter; sed bene ab eo recipit ut virtuosius operetur per 
lucem gratie quam in celo et in terra benedictio summi Pontificis infundit illi.”18 

Now, it is surely beyond dispute that the Monarchia is in perfect agreement 
with the last book of the Convivio, where Dante had passionately asserted the 
need for an alliance between the Empire and Philosophy: 


Per che . . . @ manifesto lo principale intento, cioé che 1|’autoritade del filosofo 
sommo di cui s’intende [Aristotle] sia piena di tutto vigore. E non repugna a la 
imperiale autoritade; ma quella sanza questa é pericolosa, e questa sanza quella é quasi 
debile, non per sé, ma per la disordinanza de la gente; si che l'una con l'altra 
congiunta utilissime e pienissime sono d’ogni vigore. E pero si scrive in quello di 
Sapienza: “Amate lo lume de la sapienza, voi tutti che siete dinanzi a’ populi”, cioé a 
dire: congiungasi la filosofica autoritade con la imperiale, a bene e perfettamente 


that Dante’s stance in the Monarchia is essentially the same as in the Comedy, while it is not 
antithetical to St Thomas — despite the fact that the Florentine exile “avverte ]’autonomia 
dell’esperienza terrena con una intensita estranea a San Tommaso” (/nterpretazione della 
‘Monarchia’ di Dante 59). See moreover Ullmann, Scholarship and Politics in the Middle Ages, 
on the ideological changes wrought in thirteenth-century Western Europe by the impact of 
Aristotelian political thought: “Bipolarity of thought and action replaced unipolarity — there 
was a natural and a supranatural end. . . . Hand in hand with this went the notional emergence of 
the concept of the State as a product of nature, autonomous, self-sufficient . . .” (68); so that 
“The aut-aut gave way to an et-et” (103). 

18 Regarding the vexed question of the connotations of Dante’s phrase “ista felicitas 
quodammodo ad immortalem felicitatem ordinetur,” see the following studies inter alia: 
Kantorowicz, The King’s Two Bodies 457 n. 17: “Huguccio held that the emperor depended upon 
the pope ’in spiritualibus et quodammodo in temporalibus’"; Maccarrone, “II terzo libro della 
Monarchia,” and “Papato e Impero nella Monarchia”; Williamson, “De Beatitudine Huius Vite,” 
esp. 6-7; Vinay, Interpretazione della 'Monarchia’ di Dante esp. 19, where Vinay points out that 
in the writings of Remigio de’ Girolami we find the statament that “l’autorita spirituale del papa 
si estende pure al temporale ‘aliqualiter, scilicet quantum ad spiritualia et ratione peccati’ e 
*indirecte, quodam modo et mediate’ . . . ed il termine quodam modo risale ad Uguccione, il 
grande decretista della fine del secolo XII’; Minio-Paluello, “Tre note alla Monarchia,” pointed 
out some thirty-five years ago that the phrase “sic potestas temporalis QUODAMMODO 
ordinatur ad spiritualem” is to be found in the Questio de utraque potestate, an anonymous work 
composed in the very first years of the fourteenth century: “Nulla nella Questio pud far pensare 
che questo passo sia interpolato, aggiunto per timore o per scrupolo di coscienza . . .” (523); 
Nardi, Dal “Convivio” alla “Commedia” 300-13 (in his Saggi di filosofia dantesca, 256 and 
307, Nardi speaks of a last-minute “aggiunta” or “pentimento” on Dante’s part); Vasoli, 
“Filosofia e politica in Dante,” esp. 36-37. 


270 John A. Scott 


reggere. 
(Convivio IV.vi.17-18; emphasis mine) 


The rub of course comes when we compare Dante’s views as expressed in the 
Monarchia with those found in the Comedy. I have already quoted Mazzoni’s 
judgement that the “allegoria fondamentale del Poema” is “paralleled” in the last 
chapter of the Monarchia. That is why — I would add — we find Dante’s Virgil 
acting throughout the /nferno and the Purgatorio as both the herald of the Empire 
and the mouthpiece for (christianized) Aristotelian doctrine.!? As for the 
Comedy’s assertion of the limitations of human reason (e.g., Purg. 3:34-35), I 
shall quote the conclusions of G. Vinay: “nella Commedia la ragione . . . appare 
nella sua reale ma degnissima limitatezza, sulla quale né nel Convivio né nella 
Monarchia Dante si é mai fatto illusioni” (42). 

However, a major piece of evidence in any attempt to define the relationship 
between the Monarchia and the Comedy must surely be the dating of the Latin 
treatise. In order to bolster any supposed conflict between the two works, it is 
necessary to imagine that the Monarchia was written either before or after the 
poem. That was clearly understood by Bruno Nardi, who made his dating of c. 
1308 a linchpin in his whole argument that “Quei residui d’averroismo che ho 
messo pit volte in rilievo per il Convivio, e quel dualismo averroistico che 
permane ancora nell’ultimo capitolo della Monarchia e che costituisce la 
premessa logica dalla quale é dedotta l’indipendenza dell’ Impero dalla Chiesa, nel 
poema sacro sono scomparsi” (Nardi, Dal “Convivio” 309). 

On the other hand, most scholars would assign the Monarchia to the second 
decade of the fourteenth century. Traditionally, the most auspicious moment 
seemed to be the period 1310-1313, when Henry VII came to Italy in order to be 


19 Regarding the numerous possibilities offered by Dante’s description of Virgil’s appearance 

as “chi per lungo silenzio parea fioco” in /nf. 1:63 (for which see Hollander, // Virgilio dantesco 

23-79), I would merely express my conviction that it was inter alia the incrustation of medieval 
allegories that had submerged Virgil’s essential message of the providential mission of Rome 
and her empire — something which reappeared in all its force to Dante c. 1307 (Conv. IV.iv-v) 

— making Virgil (his voice or message) weak through a silence that had lasted for centuries. 

20 Nardi, Dal “Convivio” 309. For Nardi’s dating of the Monarchia, see especially his Saggi di 

filosofia dantesca 297-301, and see Gilson, “Poésie et théologie dans la Divine Comédie” 
(199), who accepts Nardi’s hypothesis that “Dante aurait interrompu la composition du 
Convivio pour entreprendre celle de la Monarchia. . . .” Among Dante scholars active in the 

United States, Montano, Storia della poesia di Dante (250), assigns the Monarchia to the period 
1308-1310 (for Montano’s construction of an antithesis between the Comedy and the 

Monarchia, see also his Suggerimenti per una lettura di Dante 191-212); Ferrante, The Political 
Vision of the “Divine Comedy”: “Several of Dante’s letters and probably the Monarchy were 
written in support of Henry’s position in Italy, but Henry died in 1313” (27-28); Mancusi- 
Ungaro, Dante and the Empire: “It is possible that the treatise augured Henry VII’s expedition 
into Italy from 1310 to 1313” (14). Last — and certainly not least — Hollander and Rossi seem 
to accept “the dating of the Monarchia after Henry’s death — in 1317 or later” in their fine study 
“Dante’s Republican Treasury” (59). 





Dante and Philosophy 271 


_ crowned in Milan and Rome and to unify the opposing factions in the peninsula 
(see Par. 30:133-44). Here, we find the names of such eminent scholars as Barbi, 
Pietrobono, Vinay, Renucci, d’Entréves, Davis and Maccarrone.”! 

The great obstacle to this dating has always been the phrase “sicut in Paradiso 
Comedie iam dixi,” found in Monarchia I.xii.6 with regard to free will, the 
Creator’s greatest gift (see Paradiso V.19-24). In 1952, d’Entréves was able 
dismiss this “crucial objection” on the grounds that “This sentence is omitted in 
the edition of the Societa Dantesca. It is now generally considered to be the 
result of a later interpolation” (d’Entréves 43 n.1).32 Since then, however, the 
studies of Pier Giorgio Ricci, the editor of the Monarchia volume in the Societa 
Dantesca Italiana’s Edizione Nazionale, have shown that “l’inciso ha pieno 
diritto di esser conservato nel testo come originario e genuino allo stesso titolo 
di qualsivoglia altra frase del trattato. . . .”22 In his edition of the Monarchia, 
Nardi did his best to refute Ricci’s argument — in particular by claiming that 
Ricci consistently ignored the evidence of Marsilio Ficino’s edition of 1476 
(Dante Alighieri, Opere minori, tome 2, 1979, esp. 348-49 n. 6).34 However, 
Prudence Shaw has demonstrated that “‘l’inciso c’é in tutti i codici latini (in due 
solo parzialmente, ma con l’apposito spazio lasciato in bianco), e in tutti i 
codici della versione ficiniana. Manca soltanto nella princeps, dove sembra che 
sia stato soppresso per motivi editoriali ben precisi,” so that Nardi’s objections 
are not based on any solid evidence.” 

The authenticity of the cross-reference to Paradiso 5 means that Dante must 
have inserted it in or after 1316 (at the earliest, 1315), when he began work on 
the third part of his poem.” In fact, Petrocchi and others now accept Ricci’s 
dating of 1317 (“o di poco posteriore”) as the period when Dante, a guest of 
Cangrande della Scala in Verona, composed his treatise on the empire.?> It is 


21 Barbi, Problemi fondamentali 86; Pietrobono (who places the beginning of the Comedy after 
1313), Nuovi saggi danteschi 32-35; Vinay’s edition of Monarchia, Florence, 1950, xxix- 
XxXviii; Renucci, Dante 106; d’Entréves, Dante as a Political Thinker 43; Davis, Dante and the 
Idea of Rome 263-69; while Maccarrone (139-40) is willing to accept 1314 as a possibility, 
using Clement V’s Bull Pastoralis cura of March 1314 as the terminus ante quem. 

22 Monarchia, ed. P.G. Ricci, Milan, 1965, 159, note to lines 26-27. See Ricci’s article 
“Monarchia”: “la M., che dunque sarebbe del 1317 0 di poco posteriore. Conforta tale datazione 
la famosa frase sicut in Paradiso . . ., frase oggi legittimamente reinserita nel testo della M. 
donde l’avevano abusivamente estromessa quasi tutti i modemi editori . . .” (1002). 

23 Shaw, “Sul testo della Monarchia" 215-16, where she points out that Ricci did not notice 
“che l’inciso in Ficino c’era, e che era stato soppresso dagli studiosi ottocenteschi: questa 
informazione la aggiungiamo noi, a piena conferma della sua lezione critica” (215). 

24 See: Quaglio, “la composizione del Paradiso fu probabilmente iniziata nel 1316", 
Enciclopedia Dantesca 82; Petrocchi, Vita di Dante 190: “L’anno successivo [1316] Dante é gia 
alacremente al lavoro attorno al Paradiso” (see Enciclopedia Dantesca, VI [Appendice] 46, and 
La Divina Commedia, ed. Petrocchi vii); Mancusi-Ungaro: “most scholars date the Paradiso after 
13:17? "(15). 

25 See: Ricci, “L’ultima fase del pensiero politico di Dante e Cangrande vicario imperiale” 367- 


272 John A. Scott 


also important to realize that, even if the phrase “sicut in Paradiso Comedie iam 
dixi” were a later authorial interpolation, it would still suggest that the author of 
the Paradiso saw no fundamental opposition between his Monarchia and the last 
section of his Comedy. On the other hand, as Ricci and Shaw have demonstrated, 
there is not a scrap of evidence to support the idea of an authorial interpolation. 
We must therefore conclude that the duo ultima of the Monarchia do indeed 
provide the basis for the “allegoria fondamentale del Poema” (Mazzoni), where 
Virgil leads Dante to the “beatitudinem . . . huius vite, que . . . per terrestrem 
paradisum figuratur,” that happiness to which “per phylosophica documenta 
venimus” (Mon. III.xv.7-8). Far from turning his back on philosophy or 
rejecting the essential role philosophy had played in the Convivio, the author of 
the Paradiso could glorify the memory of Siger, the “pure philosopher,” even as 
he still claimed in the coeval Monarchia that earthly beatitude and the means to 
reach it had been set out for humanity “ab humana ratione que per phylosophos 
tota nobis innotuit” (III.xv.9). 

To posit a radical conflict between the Convivio and the Comedy is not 
only to distort Dante’s thought in both works, it is also to falsify his place in 
the history of Western thought. For a relatively brief moment, some of its 
outstanding thinkers sincerely believed in the ultimate harmony which they were 
convinced existed between reason and faith, philosophy and revelation. The early 
Christians had on the whole heeded St Paul’s boast (I Corinthians 1.27, 2.5-6) 
that “God has chosen what the world holds foolish, so as to abash the wise (ut 
confundat sapientes),” while “God’s power, not man’s wisdom, was to be the 
foundation of your faith. There is to be sure, a wisdom which we make known 
among those who are fully grounded (inter perfectos); but it is not the wisdom of 
this world (sapientiam vero non hujus saeculi). . . .” Then, Tertullian (c.160- 
c.225), the first Christian to write in the Latin tongue, stressed what he saw as 
the irreconcilable antagonism between Christianity and philosophy. In his 
treatise On Prescription Against Heretic, he wrote: “heresies are themselves 
instigated by philosophy... What indeed has Athens to do with Jerusalem? What 
concord is there between the Academy and the Church?” 

As is well known, the eleventh century saw the beginning of a new attitude 
towards the powers of human reason. For example, “In the introduction to his 
lectures on the philosophy of religion, Hegel refers approvingly to Anselm 





71, and the article “Monarchia” 1002; Petrocchi, Vita di Dante 192 (also Enciclopedia dantesca 
VI, 47); and see Russo’s pertinent observations in his Jmpero e stato di diritto 12-13: 
“Collocata nel crogiuolo di questi eventi, la Monarchia sempre meglio va assumendo la 
fisionomia che le @ propria, di intervento vincolato a una precisa situazione storica . . . la cui 
praticabilita confida nella forza della propria teorizzazione, con tutti i rischi di astrattezza e di 
smentita nell’immediato, che essa poteva comportare.” For a useful survey of the various 
datings, see: E. Mongiello, “Sulla datazione del Monarchia di Dante.” 

26 Quoted by Gilson, Reason and Revelation 8-9. The reader is referred to this work for a 
brilliant synthesis of the whole problem. 








Dante and Philosophy 273 


[1033-1109] as one of those ‘great men’ who, so far from thinking that the effort 
to understand was injurious to faith, were convinced that the attempt to 
understand was essential to the development of faith itself’ (Copleston 72).39 
His younger contemporary, Peter Abelard (1079-1120), was “By genius, choice 
and practice . . . a dialectician. . . . The dogmas of the faith . . . are so many 
propositions or facts thrown, so to say, to the Christian philosopher, upon 
which he may exercise his ingenuity and to which he can apply no laws but 
those of logic and grammar” (Knowles 124).40 Then, after the rediscovery of 
Aristotelian thought in Western Europe, came Dante’s philosophical masters: 
Albertus Magnus (c.1200-1280) and Thomas Aquinas (c.1225-1274). Of the 
former, David Knowles points out: “Hitherto, to Christian thinkers of the West, 
the true philosophy had been the divine message of the Old and New Testaments. 
... Now, Albert accepted philosophy as the Arabs and Jews had accepted it, as a 
vision of truth on the natural level, valid within certain agreed limits and 
therefore to be sought for its own sake,” so that “his acceptance of natural 
philosophy, in the traditional widest sense of the terms” formed “an inescapable, 
necessary basis of the Christian vision of the universe” (Knowles 251-53).2” Not 
only did Aquinas follow Albert “in a resolute separation of the spheres of reason 
and revelation” but he steadfastly maintained that “human reason is a perfectly 
adequate precision instrument for perceiving all truth in the world of matter and 
spirit around it, within the limits of its range.” Even more important is the fact 
that, for St Thomas, never “can faith and natural certainty be in opposition... . 
In the celebrated and characteristic phrase of Aquinas: ‘Grace does not destroy 
nature; it perfects her’” (Knowles 261).42 

This is the conviction that inspired the Convivio and the Monarchy as well 
as the Comedy. Thanks to the steadfast belief in the power of human reasoning 
upheld by Dante’s two great Dominican teachers, our Italian poet was able to 
share in a unique moment in the development of Christian thought, a nice 
moment of balance and harmony, which was to be shattered by the Reformation 
and the discoveries of Copernicus and Galileo.28 We must not project our own 


27 Nardi is of course the scholar who has re-evaluated and stressed Dante’s debt to St Albert: see, 
e.g., his Saggi di filosofia dantesca: “Io sono . . . del parere che, ben pit che al dottore 
d’ Aquino, Dante sia debitore, per quel che riguarda la sua cultura filosofica — non dico la sua 
filosofia, dovuta sempre a un laborioso sforzo di meditazione personale — ad Alberto di 
Colonia” (63; emphasis mine). 

28 Gilson, Reason and Revelation: “‘Away with philosophy,’ and ’Back to the Gospel,’ such 
was, in a nutshell, the doctrine of Erasm*s in his Paraclesis (1516) and in his Ratio seu 
methodus perveniendi ad veram philosophiam (1518)” (92). As is well known, Albert’s and 
Thomas’s optimism was not shared by, e.g., the Franciscan Bonaventure or Ugolino da Orvieto, 
who condemned Aristotle “quia vitium posuit pro summa virtutum” (see Zumkeller 376). 
Petrarch’s anti-Aristotelianism is much in evidence in his De sui ipsius et multorum ignorantia 
of 1367 (e.g. “credo hercle, nec dubito, illum [Aristotle] non in rebus tantum parvis, quarum 
parvus et minime periculosus est error, sed in maximis et spectantibus ad salutis summam 


274 John A. Scott 


doubts and scepticism on a Christian poet and thinker, of whom Eugenio Garin 
has justly written: “mai Dante sarebbe giunto a considerare la filosofia, e 1’amore 
ad essa portato, prima o dopo il Convivio, peccaminoso e figlio di desiderio 
contrastante con ragione” (Storia 189). Or, to return to the relationship between 
the Convivio and the Comedy, we can hardly do better than recall Michele 
Barbi’s authoritative judgement: “In conclusione, come non si pud parlare di 
razionalismo per il Convivio, cosi non si pud parlare di misticismo per la 
Divina Commedia... . .”?? 


A Postscript 


It was only after dispatching this essay to the editor that I received the Spring 
1990, number 6, of Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and 
Interpretation, which publishes another article by Robert Hollander on the second 
canto of the Purgatorio. In “Purgatorio Il: The New Song and the Old,” 
Hollander reinforces his position: “A still more recently developing and 
predominantly American interpretive position goes a step further in attempting 
to establish the presence of an urgent polemic in the Commedia against some of 
the values sponsored by the Convivio” (29; emph. mine), while he reiterates his 
conviction that “The rejection of Convivio here is subtle and vigorous” (40). 

I wish to make it clear that I admire Robert Hollander’s vigorous 
scholarship, and I take many of the points made by him. Unfortunately, for all 
the reasons set out above, I find it impossible to accept his claim that it is the 
love of philosophy that Dante rejects here, while I take Cato’s rebuke to indicate 
that music — because of its power to distract our souls (Conv. II.xiii.24)— is 
dangerous in this context. To borrow Hollander’s quote from Daniello’s 
commentary, here in Purgatorio one sings “hymns and psalms in praise of God” 
(39). In Purgatorio, music can be an obstacle, not true philosophy (according to 
the poem’s allegory, as stated in Monarchia III.xv). Nor can I accept the 
statement: “In Cato’s words, the ode is no less than a ‘slough’ that prevents God 
from being seen by the pilgrims (122-23).” This equation, “slough = ‘Amor che 
ne la mente mi ragiona,’” is — at least for me — a gratuitous innovation, which 
goes against the traditional (and obvious, therefore convincing) interpretation of 


aberrasse tota, ut aiunt, via” (Prose 72). As Nardi observed ("Filosofia e teologia” 94): “La 
teologia scolastica, dalla meta del secolo XIII fino alla Riforma, si pud dire si svolga in gran 
parte intorno al rapporto da stabilire tra rivelazione e filosofia, intendendo per filosofia... la 
filosofia aristotelica nata e sviluppatasi oltre tre secoli prima dell’esperienza cristiana ed 
estranea a questa.” 

29 Barbi, “Razionalismo e misticismo in Dante” (75). See Meersseman, “Dante come teologo”: 
“Alcuni scrittori intendono l’appellativo mistico in senso stretto, attribuendo a Dante le stesse 
esperienze religiose che a Hildegarda da Bingen, Caterina da Siena, Giovanni della Croce ecc. Io 
non posso che esprimere il mio scetticismo totale su questa tesi” (192). 








Dante and Philosophy 275 


ace 299 


Cato’s words. The “‘scoglio / ch’esser non lascia a voi Dio manifesto’” is surely 
the impedimentum of sin, which has to be cast off on the mount: “‘Correte al 
monte a spogliarvi . . .,”” Cato’s injunction cannot be restricted to Hollander’s 
interpretation: the fault of which Cato accuses the sinners is “‘negligenza.. . 
stare’” (3:121) instead of moving towards God, and it is in no way analogous to 
the “worship of the golden calf,” as Hollander seems to imply (35-36). 

Let me end with just two examples of the traditional interpretation of those 
crucial lines (Purg. 2:122-23): “A spogliarvi lo scoglio vuol dire: a mondarvi 
della sozzura de’ peccati, a purgarvi” (G. A. Scartazzini, La divina commedia di 
Dante Alighieri, Bologna, 1895; 1965 rpt., ad loc.); and “lo scoglio. . . . Qui 
per metafora vale l’impurita dei peccati, che come una ‘scorza’ resta intorno 
all’anima e impedisce quindi la visione di Dio” (La divina commedia: Purgatorio, 
ed. U. Bosco and G. Reggio, Firenze, 1979, ad loc.). 


The University of Western Australia 


Works Cited 


Alighieri, Dante. JJ convivio. Ed. C. Vasoli and D. De Robertis. In Opere minori. 
Tome 1, part 2. Milano: Ricciardi, 1988. 

. La divina commedia. Ed. G. Petrocchi. 4 vols. Milano: Mondadori, 1966- 

67. 

. The Divine Comedy. Tr. and comm. Ch. S. Singleton. 6 vols. Bollingen ser. 

Princeton: Princeton UP, 1977. 

. Monarchia. Ed. P. G. Ricci. In Le opere di Dante Alighieri. Edizione 

nazionale a cura della Societa Dantesca Italiana. Vol. 5. Milano: Mondadori, 

1965. 

. La vita nuova. Ed. D. De Robertis. In Opere minori. Tome 1, part 1. Ed. D. 
De Robertis and G. Contini. Milano: Ricciardi, 1984. 

Barbi, Michele. Problemi fondamentali per un nuovo commento della Divina 
commedia. Firenze: Sansoni, 1956. 

. “Razionalismo e misticismo in Dante.” In Problemi di critica dantesca 

(seconda serie). Firenze: Sansoni, 1941.3-86. 

Barolini, Teodolinda. Dante’s Poets: Textuality and Truth in the “Comedy.” 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1984. 

Battaglia, Salvatore. “Il razionalismo del Convivio.” Esemplarita e antagonismo nel 
pensiero di Dante: Parte Prima. Second ed. Napoli: Liguori, 1967: 

Bec, Christian. “Dante e Parigi.” In Dante e le citta dell’esilio. Ravenna: Longo, 
1989. 147-54. 

Borsellino, N. “Un pronostico per Guido (Inferno X 63).” Giornale storico della 
letteratura italiana 166 (1989): 161-82. 

Cassell, Anthony K. “Failure, Pride and Conversion in Inferno I.” Dante Studies 94 














276 John A. Scott 


(1976): 33-58. 
Coppleston, F. C. A History of Medieval Philosophy. London: Methuen, 1972. 
Corti, Maria. Dante a un nuovo crocevia. Firenze: Sansoni, 1981. 
. La felicita mentale. Torino: Einaudi, 1983. 
Davis, C. T. Dante and the Idea of Rome. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1957. 
d’Entréves, A. P. Dante as a Political Thinker. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1952. 
Dronke, Peter. Dante and Medieval Latin Traditions. Cambridge: Cambrdige UP. 
1986. 
. The Medieval Poet and His World. Roma: Edizioni di storia e letteratura, 
1984. 
Enciclopedia dantesca. Ed. Umberto Bosco. 6 vols. Roma: Istituto della enciclopedia 
italiana fondata da Giovanni Treccani, 1970-78. 
Ferrante, J. The Political Vision of the Divine Comedy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1984. 
Fido, Franco. “Dall’antipurgatorio al paradiso terrestre: il tempo ritrovato di Dante.” 
In Letture classensi 18 (1989): 65-78. 
Forti, F. Magnanimitade: studi su un tema dantesco. Bologna: Patron, 1977. 
Foster, Kenelm. “Religion and Philosophy in Dante.” In The Mind of Dante. Ed. U. 
Limentani. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1965. 47-78. 
. “Tommaso d’ Aquino.” In Enciclopedia dantesca. 
. The Two Dantes and Other Studies. London: Darton, Longman & Todd, 
1977: 
Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed and intr. Rachel Jacoff. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. 
Garin, Eugenio. Storia della filosofia italiana. Vol. 1. Torino: Einaudi, 1966. 
Gentile, Giovanni. “Dante nella storia del pensiero italiano.” Studi su Dante. Firenze: 
Sansoni, 1965. 
Gilson, E. Dante the Philosopher. London: Sheed and Ward, 1948. 
. “Poésie et théologie dans la Divine Comédie.” In Atti del congresso 
internazionale di studi danteschi. Firenze: Sansoni, 1965. 1: 197-223. 
. Reason and Revelation in the Middle Ages. New York: C. Cribner’s Sons, 
1939. 
Goudet, J. La Politique de Dante. Lyon: 1’Hermés 1981. 
Hollander, Robert J. “Purgatorio II: Cato’s Rebuke and Dante’s scoglio.” In Studies in 
Dante. Ravenna: Longo, 1980. 91-105. 
. “Purgatorio Il: The New Song and the Old.” Lectura Dantis: A Forum for 
Dante Research and Interpretation 6 (1990): 28-45. 
. Il Virgilio dantesco. Firenze: Olschki, 1983. 
and Albert L. Rossi. “Dante’s Republican Treasury.” Dante Studies 104 
(1986): 59-82. 
Kantorowicz, E. The King’s Two Bodies. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1957. 
Knowles, David. The Evolution of Medieval Thought. London: Longman, 1978. 
Maccarrone, M. “Papato e Impero nella Monarchia.” In Nuove Letture Dantesche. 
Firenze: Le Monnier, 1976. 8: 259-332. 
. “Tl terzo libro della Monarchia.” Studi Danteschi 33 (1955): 5-142. 
Mancusi-Ungaro, Donna. Dante and the Empire. New York: Peter Lang, 1987. 
Meersseman, G. G. “Dante come teologo.” In Atti del congresso internazionale di 











Dante and Philosophy 277 


studi danteschi. Firenze: Sansoni, 1965. 1:177-95. 

Minio-Paluello, L. “Tre note alla Monarchia.” In Medioevo e Rinascimento. Studi in 
onore di B. Nardi. Firenze: Sansoni, 1955. 2:522-524. 

Mongiello, E. “Sulla datazione del Monarchia di Dante.” Le parole e le idee 11 
(1969): 290-324. 

Montano, Rocco. Storia della poesia dantesca. Vol. 1. Napoli: Quaderni di Delta, 
1962. 

. Suggerimenti per una lettura di Dante. Napoli: Quaderni di Delta, 1956. 

Nardi, Bruno. Dal “Convivio” alla “Commedia” . Roma: Istituto storico italiano per il 
Medio Evo, 1960. 

. “Filosofia e teologia ai tempi di Dante in rapporto al pensiero del poeta.” In 
Atti del congresso internazionale di studi danteschi. Firenze: Sansoni, 1965. 
Volt. 

. Nel mondo di Dante. Roma: Edizioni di storia e letteratura, 1944. 
. Saggi di filosofia dantesca. Second ed. Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 1967. 

Petrarca, Francesco. De sui ipsius et multorum ignorantia. In Prose. Ed. P. G. Ricci. 
Milano-Napoli: R. Ricciardi, 1955. 

Petrocchi, Giorgio.Vita di Dante. Roma: Laterza, 1983. 

Pietrobono, Luigi. Nuovi saggi danteschi. Torino: SEI, 1954. 

Quaglio, A. E. “Commedia: composizione.” In Enciclopedia Dantesca. 

Renucci, Paul. Dante. Paris: Hatier, 1958. 

Ricci, P. G. “L’ultima fase del pensiero politico di Dante e Cangrande vicario 
imperiale.” In Dante e la cultura veneta. Firenze: Olschki, 1966. 

. “Monarchia.” In Enciclopedia Dantesca. 

Russo, Vittorio. Impero e stato di diritto. Napoli: Bibliopolis, 1987. 

Shaw, Prudence. “Sul testo della Monarchia.” Studi Danteschi 53 (1981): 187-217. 

Simonelli, Maria. “Convivio.” In Enciclopedia Dantesca. 

Steenberghen, F. van. Maitre Siger de Brabant. Louvain-Paris, 1977. 

Thompson, David. “Dante’s Ulysses and the Allegorical Journey.” Dante Studies 85 
(1967): 33-58. 

Ullmann, W. Scholarship and Politics in the Middle Ages. London: Variorum 
Reprints, 1978. 

Vasoli, Cesare. “Introduzione.” In J] convivio. Ed. C. Vasoli and D. De Robertis. 

. “Filosofia e politica in Dante.” In Letture classensi 9-10 (1982): 11-37. 

Vinay, G. Interpretazione della “Monarchia” di Dante, Firenze: Le Monnier, 1962. 

Williamson, E. “De Beatitudine Huius Vite.” Annual Report of the Dante Society 76 
(1958): 1-22. 

Zumkeller, A. Hugolin von Orvieto und seine theologische Erkenntnislehre. 
Wiirzburg: Rita-Verlag der Augustiner, 1941. 











Paolo Valesio 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia* 


Quivi si vive e gode del tesoro 

che s’acquistd piangendo ne lo essilio 
di Babillon, ove si lascid l’oro. 

(Par. XXIII 133-35) 


Un problema emerge su tutti gli altri, nell’opera di Dante: problema che — 
come sempre accade in casi di questo genere — non é li tanto per esser risolto in 
maniera definitiva quanto per esser nutrito di riflessione. Si tratta del nodo che 
collega — che tenta di (col)legare, in una tensione sempre al limite della frattura 
— filosofia e teologia. 

Definito cosi, questo non puo che apparire come un problema filosofico; e 
lo @ difatti. Ma @ proprio qui che ci si pud sviare: la posta di questa partita 
filosofica non é qualche cosa che serva primariamente la storia della filosofia e 
della teologia; la vera posta qui in giuoco é il peculiare tono e natura della poesia 
di Dante. 

Se, a questo punto, cito me stesso non é certo per una qualche illusione o 
delusione di autorita — al contrario, é perché sento l’obbligo di cominciare a 
onorare una cambiale che avevo rilasciato qualche tempo fae di cui ancora 
nessuno ha richiesto il pagamento: “Dantean criticism glosses Dante, while 
Dantesque criticism . . . struggles with the text. . . . the opening move of 
Dantesque criticism is to put the accepted theological context in parentheses, 
even if (especially if) the outcome is a dialectical return to it. . . . The renewal of 
Dantesque criticism lies in interventions on the conflicting theologies within the 
text”?! 

Eccomi quindi a tentar di mostrare alcune implicazioni di queste indicazioni 
generali, nel corso della preparazione di un’opera che analizza la Commedia 
(sopra tutto il Paradiso ) nei termini di una rilettura di alcune polarita del 
pensiero religioso in Occidente. 

L’asse ideologico fondamentale secondo il quale Dante (si) propone di 
sistemare il rapporto tra filosofia e teologia — dunque di imprimere una 
Caratterizzazione generale a tutto il suo discorso poetico — é noto: dalla 


. Questo saggio riprende e rivede il testo di una conferenza letta qualche tempo fa alla Nebwerry 
Library di Chicago e poi alla Stanford University. Ringrazio Dino Cervigni, Paolo Cherchi, 
John Freccero e Anthony Mastrobuono per le loro osservazioni critiche in quelle occasioni. 

1 Vedi 1a “Foreword” a Auerbach, Scenes xviii. La genealogia modema di una rilettura veramente 
critica della poesia dantesca é ancora marcata da un testo il cui metodo é per altri rispetti agli 
antipodi di quello analizzato qui; mi riferisco a Croce, La poesia di Dante. 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 279 


confusione delle filosofie (che @ anche una confusione esistenziale) |’ Alighieri si 
volge, cioé si converte, alla verita cosi come essa é illuminata dall’ortodossia 
cristiana. 

Qual é la conseguenza discorsiva generale di un’esperienza di conversione? 
Da San Paolo in avanti, questa conseguenza é la didassi: il convertito @ 
posseduto dall’ansia di diffondere, di insegnare ad altri, la verita ch’egli ha 
scoperto. E questo un movimento di fondo nella Commedia, sopra tutto nella 
sua cantica conclusiva. 

Ma, perché un’opera di letteratura arrivi all’esistenza, é indispensabile che 
qualche altro movimento si aggiunga a quello della didassi — in questo caso, il 
movimento é quello che I’altro grande Santo fondatore di teologia aggiunge al 
discorso cristiano in Occidente: la confessione. Dunque: una conversione viene 
dettagliata nei termini d’una confessione, e ulteriormente articolata in una 
didattica. Questa é la struttura portante della Commedia dantesca — la quale 
consente di unire la strutturazione dottrinale dei contenuti a quella drammaticita 
ch’é indispensabile in una narrazione letteraria. 

Di fronte a questa macchina maestosa, sembrerebbe che il compito della 
critica fosse quello di definirne e approfondirne sempre meglio le articolazioni 
particolari, ferma restando |’impalcatura di fondo. 

Se non che, vi é un altro edificio impiantato dentro questo palazzo; e queste 
due architetture contrastanti causano interessanti difficolta al critico che si muove 
in quello che si rivela essere un labirinto — ma sopra tutto, generano quella tesa 
ricchezza che é il fascino pil durevole della poesia dantesca. Tale architettura 
alternativa é quella dell’iniziazione. E qui bisogna chiarire, prendendo le mosse da 
uno stadio precedente. 

La Vita nuova non é solo il piu brillante romanzo sperimentale che sia stato 
scritto in italiano, e non é soltanto una propedeutica alla Commedia; & anche — 
e sopra tutto — un’alternativa al “poema sacro”. Questo, perché la Vita nuova é 
la storia di un’iniziazione. La Commedia tenta di salvaguardare molti elementi di 
una storia d’iniziazione inserendoli in una storia di conversione. Che quasi 
sempre questa combinazione riesca é forse la prova pili sicura del genio di Dante; 
ma questo non puo avvenire senza pagare un forte scotto, senza ingenerare una 
tensione dentro al testo. Cid che mi propongo di discutere nelle righe che 
seguono sono alcuni aspetti di tale tensione. Prima, perd, un momento di pausa. 

Se dico la parola “conversione” evoco immediatamente concetti edificanti e 
costruttivi: come fede, dottrina, salvazione. Ma pronunzio la parola “iniziazione” 
— ed ecco, i concetti che emergono sono pili inquietanti; essi rischiano spesso 
l’ironica ostilita o l’impazienza del lettore. L’iniziazione é il cammino del 
discorso ermetico, e in generale delle dottrine esoteriche — cioé di una visione 
del mistero che si presta a molti abusi. 

Ora io non considero come mio compito qui, né quello di esibire i 
documenti di anzianita e rispettabilita degli studi esoterici sulla Commedia, né 
d’altro canto quello di spaziare per tutte le molteplici suggestioni 


280 Paolo Valesio 


dell’ esoterismo. 

L’idea di fondo con la quale oriento |’analisi é che (contrariamente a cid ch’é 
suggerito dal linguaggio con il quale esso si lascia sovente abbigliare) la 
caratteristica dell’ermetismo non é il mistero: sua caratteristica é proprio la cruda 
chiarezza, la mancanza di mistero (l’essenza del mistero ermetico é forse la sua 
assenza). 

Due grandi movimenti complementari ritmano la storia della spiritualita in 
Occidente: la retorica cristiana centrale, che @ un discorso sulla accessibilita (a 
tutti é possibile realizzare l’esperienza cristiana), é il primo di tali movimenti; 
dove pero l’accessibilita si arresta di fronte ai Sacri Misteri, impervi all’intelletto 
umano; e allora un’ombra severa si proietta su quella che sembrava essere una 
mite bonarieta. Ai margini del corso di questa retorica si muove una retorica 
alternativa, non istituzionalizzata, spiritualistica piuttosto che confessionale: é il 
discorso dell’iniziato — il quale colpisce a prima vista per il suo tono di 
orgoglio e la sua aura di mistero. Ma, il suo messaggio in ultima analisi é che 
non vi sono misteri i quali trascendan l’uomo: la meta finale é quella di un 
equilibrio spirituale interno, in cui le entité metafisiche risultano essere elementi 
di un’economia psicologica. 

Sintetizzando questo grande chiasmo nella storia delle idee: la retorica 
dell’ ortodossia cristiana ci dice che la vita é tramata sulla semplicita e modestia 
dei doveri e dei rapporti quotidiani — ma é in ultima analisi fondata sul mistero; 
mentre la retorica dello spiritualismo eterodosso (ermetico e d’altra specie) 
annunzia che i dettagli pil apparentemente minuscoli della vita sono vibranti di 
segreto — ma che al fondo non vi é nessun mistero trascendente (si tratta solo di 
recuperare pienamente le proprie possibilita spirituali). 

La retorica della conversione, e la didassi che ne consegue, sono state 
brillantemente esplorate, per il lungo e per il largo dell’opera dantesca, dalla 
critica internazionale. Molto pid esile, pit’ accidentato, continuamente interrotto, 
& stato il filo della ricerca esoterica. La mia analisi, che si muove in quest’ ultima 
direzione, non mira a dare una chiave unica che apra lo scrigno della Commedia 
in modo radicalmente diverso, offrendo un messaggio tutto nuovo (richiamo al 
limite implicito nel mio titolo: l’ermetismo non é che una vena nella rocciosita 
della Commedia); ma d’altra parte prende la distanza dalla confusione per cui 
ermetismo diviene, fuorviantemente, sinonimo della tensione d’oscurita e 
stranezza che é intrinsicamente presente in ogni poesia che valga la pena di 
rileggere — oppure (e altrettanto equivocamente) é usato semplicemente come un 
altro termine per misticismo.” 


2 Da queste confusioni metteva gia in guardia il saggio di Renucci, “Dantismo esoterico nel 
secolo presente”. Dalla minuziosita di quelle indicazioni bibliografiche risulta tuttavia assente 
uno dei pid antichi (se non il pid antico), e certo il pid eloquente, esempio di esoterismo 
dantesco nella letteratura francese: il bizzarro e brillante racconto o romanzo breve di Balzac, 
Les Proscrits (apparso originariamente sulla Revue de Paris del 1 maggio 1831), che appartiene 





La vena ermetica nella Commedia 281 


Il vario intrecciarsi dell’ermetismo spirituale con il discorso ortodosso marca 
la peculiarita della poesia dantesca. In virti di questo intreccio, il “ velame de li 
versi strani “ & sempre sollevato e_sempre abbassato — cid che conta é la 
continua variazione dei drappeggi. Come osserva un serio testimone spirituale 
dell’esoterismo, commentando quell’episodio biblico (in Esodo 34: 29-35 ) dove 
si narra che Mosé dovette coprirsi il volto con un velo, per rivolgersi al popolo 
la cui vista non poteva sopportare il nuovo splendore, é qui evocato il doppio 
significato della parola rivelare: “. . . che pud voler dire sia “scostare il velo” sia 
“ricoprire con un velo”; cosi la parola manifesta e vela al tempo stesso il 
pensiero che esprime.”? 

Se posso ricorrere a un giuoco (ma non é giocoso) di parole: nella linea 
ermeneutica qui sviluppata cid che é rivelante & sempre rivelante — ma cid ch’é 
rivelante & sovente (appunto) ri-velante. 


** 


Dovrebbe esser chiaro (ma non sembra affatto inutile marcarlo esplicitamente) 
che la protestazione dantesca: “‘Io non Enéa, io non Paulo sono;/ me degno a cid 
né io né altri *1 crede’” (/nf. II 32-33), andra letta — la sua stessa forma 
insinuante lo suggerisce —* come |’esorcizzazione retorica dell’ excessus mentis 
(0: excessus mentis et corporis) che marca tutto il progetto della Commedia. 





alla sezione “Etudes philosophiques” della Comédie humaine. La novella storica di Balzac, pur 

con le sue parti melodrammatiche, e nonostante (o forse a cagione dei) suoi anacronismi 
swedenborghiani, evoca proprio il nodo filosofico-teologico che @ di particolare interesse oggi. 
3 Vedi Guénon, /I re del mondo. E simbolico della profonda differenza tra due approcci al testo 

dantesco in particolare, e alla poesia in generale, il contrasto tra l’osservazione citata sopra e la 
seguente spiegazione, drasticamente semplificante, di cid che sarebbe rivelare: “The experience 
of poetry which this Comedy holds potentially, for every reader who will make the effort, is 

precisely the experience of gradual revelation of meaning, an unveiling (which happens to be 

the literal meaning of revelatio).” Vedi la “Note” finale, a pp. 645-50 del Commento all’/nferno 
che costituisce il secondo volume di Dante Alighieri, The Divine Comedy, a c. di Singleton. 

(Nel presente saggio, i versi danteschi sono citati secondo il testo critico fissato da Giorgio 
Petrocchi.) La genealogia di questo problema dello (s)velamento é lunghissima (e per esempio, 
il capitolo 5 della nietzscheana Nascita della tragedia @ solo un anello nella catena). Per la 

retorica come teoria contemporanea dello (s)velamento, si veda anche la fine della sezione 5.1 

(specialmente le pp. 314-16), la sezione 5.2 et passim, del mio Ascoltare il silenzio. Quanto a 

Guénon, si vedano almeno L’Esotérisme de Dante e vari saggi di argomenti affini, una raccolta 

dei quali @ oggi accessibile in italiano: L’esoterismo cristiano, e San Bernardo. (Ma il breve 

saggio divulgativo su San Bemardo non ha alcuna valenza esoterica.) 

Mi riferisco all’anafora di quell’io (che situa in primo piano il poeta e la sua impresa nel 
momento stesso in cui sembrerebbe ribassarli) — effetto ulteriormente sottolineato (con 
passaggio dall’anafora all’epanafora) dal me all’inizio del verso seguente; e il pronome neutro '/ 
che pleonasticamente riprende cid; e, pid indirettamente, l’effetto di rallentamento 
dell’accentuazione di quarta sesta decima, rafforzato come tale dalla dieresi. Insomma, quello che 
il poeta ci sta effettivamente comunicando con la forma stessa della sua parola é il contrario del 
messaggio in superficie. 


282 Paolo Valesio 


Progetto per cui l’autore si colloca autorevolmente in questa linea o lignaggio di 
viaggiatori all’aldila. Ed é chiaro e ben noto (Dante stesso lo indica, al capo 28 
dell’Epistola a Can Grande) che il sottotesto dell’inizio del Paradiso (sopra tutto 
la seconda terzina, e i vv. 73-75, del primo canto in questa cantica) é il famoso e 
controverso passo di Paolo: 


Scio hominem in Christo ante annos quattuordecim (sive in corpore nescio, sive extra 
corpus nescio, Deus scit) raptum huiusmodi usque ad tertium caelum. Et scio huiusmodi 
hominem (sive in corpore sive extra corpus nescio, Deus scit) quoniam raptum est in 
paradisum.... 

(2 Cor. 12:2-5)° 


Cosi come é chiaro, infine, che Paolo é uno dei grandi assenti dalla Commedia. 
Ma qui vale la pena di soffermarsi. Dante evita di collocare direttamente nel suo 
poema, come personaggio, il grande di cui egli — in quanto autore/narratore del 
poema — ambisce ripetere la peculiare combinazione di esperienze. E sarebbe 
riduttivo considerare questa “velatura” come un gesto puramente letterario 
(difensivita di un poeta verso l’autorita dei predecessori). Ma qual é, allora, la 
peculiarita di questa combinazione? 

Secondo una leggenda popolare nel Medio Evo, Paolo non visit6 il Paradiso 
soltanto, ma anche 1|’Inferno. Benché i commentatori ancora discutano se Dante 
abbia potuto avere 0 no conoscenza diretta della Visio Sancti Pauli (e 
propongano a volte una divisione un po’ troppo simmetrica secondo la quale 
Enea sarebbe emblema del viaggio infernale e Paolo di quello paradisiaco), se 
fissiamo di nuovo lo sguardo sull’evidenza della forma vediamo come Dante 
infratestualmente suggerisca la sua consapevolezza che il viaggio di San Paolo é 
stato anche un viaggio infernale. Al passo gia citato, quei versi che dicono 
un’esitazione eccitata, una vertigine sull’orlo: “‘Per che, se del venire io 
m’abbandono,/ temo che la venuta non sia folle’” (Inf. II 34-35) non anticipano 
solo il “folle volo” d’Ulisse (Inf. XXV 125), ma alludono al citato poema in 
prosa di San Paolo: come non vedere, infatti, che questo m’ abbandono é figlio di 
quel raptum (due volte ripetuto — cosi come in Dante, col suo abituale e forte 
effetto di diffrazione, la radice del verbo venire é due volte ripetuta)? Ma cid con 
cui abbiamo a che fare qui é propriamente (ritorno alle osservazioni iniziali) un 
nodo filosofico-teologico: tenendo San Paolo sullo sfondo, Dante dissimula la 
piena misura d’audacia della sua sperimentazione. 

San Paolo annoda insieme la retorica della conversione (Atti 9: 3-8) e quella 
dell’iniziazione (vedi il passo citato dalla Lettera ai Corinzi). Ecco, allora, la 
spiegazione: Dante non puo che alludere rapidamente alla figura di colui che é 


5 Cito, qui e altrove, secondo Biblia Sacra Vulgatae Editionis. E lascio il testo della Vulgata 
senza mediazioni per avvicinarmi il pid: possibile — in tutto il loro spessore, che @ anche una 
corposa ambiguita — alle parole della Scrittura cosi come Dante le leggeva. 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 283 


riuscito a connettere — nella sua vita di missione orientata verso la santita — 
quelle due dimensioni (conversione e iniziazione) che resteranno di solito divise 
nella storia della spiritualita occidentale; le due dimensioni che egli tenta di 
conciliare in una suprema finzione. 

Per cid che attiene alla conversione: la conversione di San Paolo offre un 
modello alternativo a quella di Sant’ Agostino che, per il suo aspetto libresco, 
domina la retorica letteraria della conversione dal Petrarca a tutt’oggi. La 
conversione di Paolo é effetto di qualche cosa di molto piii concreto che la lettura 
di una pagina: come il passo degli Atti cui prima si é fatto riferimento descrive 
con gran forza, essa proviene da una visione; qualche cosa di molto pit concreto, 
dunque, di molto pit legato alla vita e all’azione. 

Infatti: la conversione libresca (quella di Agostino) é seguita dalla mossa 
metaletteraria — quella della confessione; in cui il discorso (anche orale, anche 
interiore) si atteggia tuttavia sempre nei modi della scrittura. Invece la 
conversione esistenziale @ seguita non dalla confessione ma dall’azione: da 
qualche cosa dunque che non é metaletterario e che, appunto per questo, pud 
essere oggetto della finzione letteraria nella sua pili viva evidenza di 
drammaticita. (Non é un caso che la conversione di San Paolo si presti alla 
raffigurazione iconica — basti citare Caravaggio — molto pill che quella 
agostiniana.) Ho parlato di alternativa; in effetti, l’appena detto pud essere 
sviluppato in una rilettura di alcuni aspetti del debito dantesco verso Agostino.® 
Per esempio: non é forse significativo che la lettura di un libro appaia nella 
Commedia non come la svolta di una conversione, ma (penso all’ episodio di 
Francesca) come la rivelazione peccaminosa di una vertigine (una sorta di 
rovesciamento del famoso Tolle, lege)? 

Ma cid che qui preme é diverso; si tratta di seguire la linea generale di una 
speculazione filosofica e teologica, vista nella sua incidenza di poesia. La 
conversione, come 1’iniziazione, orienta l’individuo verso una speranza 
d’immortalita. Ma, laddove nella conversione cristiana l’immortalita @ rinviata 
all’evento della resurrezione, nel discorso iniziatico v’é una speranza pil 
conturbante e controversa, quella del prolungamento dell’esperienza di vita (la 
problematica della reincarnazione). 

Fra il viaggiatore pagano all’aldila (Enea) e quello evangelico (Paolo) vi @ 
una figura che resta celata (Dante la nominera pit avanti, ma nei termini rapidi di 
una similitudine di sfondo, in nf. XXVI 34-37): quella del profeta Elia, colui 
che appare a Gesu trasfigurato. Elia é il profeta che viene assunto al cielo, in uno 
dei pit conturbanti momenti della narrazione biblica. Ora, la “via di Elia” é il 
nome con cui la tradizione ermetica designa la tecnica o esperienza di colui che 
riesce a entrare ancor vivo nella dimensione ultraterrena.” 


6 Non questa la sede per entrare in discussioni specifiche di questo delicato problema. 
7 Si veda Evola, La tradizione ermetica; uno dei pochi libri sull’argomento che riesca a evitare 
sia l’aridita cronachistica sia 1’indisciplina. 


284 Paolo Valesio 


La traslazione celeste d’Elia avviene all’insegna del fuoco (“. . . ecce currus 
igneus et equi ignei diviserunt utrumque; et ascendit Elias per turbinem in 
caelum” 4 Reg. 2:11). Questo fiammeggiare é il sottotesto (prudentemente 
taciuto) dell’ascensione con la quale si apre, sotto l’egida del sole sfidato, il 
Paradiso. 

Ma torniamo all’inizio del viaggio. Dante sta per “abbandonarsi” alla via 
d’Elia; ed esita, di fronte a questa esperienza che minaccia di distruggere il suo 
equilibrio di persona, e che esporra il suo testo a possibili accuse di eterodossia. 
Solo in questa luce possiamo comprendere tutta l’importanza della reticentia 
dantesca nel passo gia ricordato — in quelle parole che non sono rivolte a 
Virgilio soltanto bensi a ogni lettore: “‘Se’ savio; intendi me’ ch’i’ non 
ragiono’” (Inf. Il 36). E possiamo anche comprendere, ora, la virulenza verbale 
con cui Dante (0 chi per lui) nell’Epistola a Can Grande tenta di scrollarsi di 
dosso il biasimo per essersi fatto protagonista della sua stessa visione: “ubi ista 
invidis non sufficiant .. . et non invidebunt . . . oblatrarent. . . .” (Ep. XIII 80- 
81).8 “Dante” vuol dar l’impressione di difendersi da un’accusa etico-estetica, 
esprimendosi con una frase che, pesante com’é, non sembra caratteristica del suo 
miglior stile: “Si vero in dispositionem elevationis tantae propter peccatum 
loquentis oblatrarent” (Ep. XIII 81). (Non é strano che il protetto di un potente 
signore che si chiama Can Grande usi, in una lettera che fra l’altro chiede a 
quest’ ultimo un sussidio finanziario, un’espressione “canina” come oblatrare? O 
é qui Dante che scrive, ma in un momento di spericolatezza che rasenta 
l’autolesionismo, 0 @ un imitatore malizioso di Dante . . .). 

Ma l’accusa che |’autore dell’Epistola in realta teme @ quella di una 
trasgressione propriamente spirituale, nel reame delle esperienze proibite. Ecco 
come si spiega questo miscuglio di astrazione (“in dispositionem elevationis”) e 
violenza (“‘oblatrarent”). 

Dunque, Dante ha scelto la via d’Elia — né voglio con questo avanzare 
alcuna illazione sull’esperienza biografica di Dante Alighieri. Voglio 
semplicemente dire che egli ha scelto di rappresentare, come eroe della sua epica, 
un uomo che entra vivo — con il suo particolare nodo di anima e di corpo — 
nell’al di 14. Fino a che percorre i gironi infernali e la montagna del Purgatorio, 
questo pellegrino é situato dentro un corpo (inutile ripetere la lista di tutti 1 passi 
in cui, con drammatico virtuosismo, la corporeita di Dante é@ descritta come 
qualche cosa che colpisce gli abitatori ultraterreni). Solo quando comincia il 
viaggio paradisiaco un dubbio viene insinuato (Par. II 73-75), se il pellegrino sia 
presente solo con l’anima o se abbia conservato anche il corpo — dubbio che 


8 Cito l’Epistola secondo l’edizione a cura di Arsenio Frugoni e Giorgio Brugnoli in Alighieri, 
g 

Opere minori. Tra i precedenti illustri con cui Dante conforta nell’epistola la sua visione vi @ il 

Vangelo di Matteo (17:6), in un passo in cui appare Elia (con un ulteriore rinvio subtestuale a 4 

Reg. 2: 15). 








La vena ermetica nella Commedia 285 


non verra risolto esplicitamente (ma vedi piu avanti).? 

Pensiamo (0, immaginiamo — con |’immaginazione ermeneutica cui la 
poesia di Dante invita e sfida costantemente): un uomo in carne ed ossa cammina 
in mezzo a entita che non sono né anime né corpi, ma ombre (tornerd fra poco 
sul loro statuto) — git per il doloroso regno dell’Inferno, su per il monte del 
Purgatorio. E in Paradiso la situazione diviene ancora pili straordinaria: il 
pellegrino non é pill chiaramente visibile agli occhi mentali del lettore poiché 
appunto non é certo se egli sia presente solo con la sua anima o anche con il suo 
corpo; in Paradiso inoltre non si sa pili se le ombre siano le stesse entita che 
abbiamo (con uno sforzo che non pud non Iasciare il segno nel nostro 
subconscio di lettori) accettato di immaginare fino ad ora, o entité diverse da 
quelle che sono descritte nelle prime due cantiche. (La stranezza di ““ombre” che 
sono costantemente caratterizzate come “luci” rivela un problema gnoseologico, 
che come tale va oltre l’ossimoro.) 

Sto parlando di qualche cosa che non appartiene soltanto al reame della 
“fantasia”, per quanto “alta” essa sia: qualche cosa non solo di fantasioso, ma di 
fantastico, o ancor pili specificamente, di fantasmatico. Esiste infatti un doppio 
effetto fantasmatico, su cui é tramato tutto questo viaggio ultraterreno: 1’effetto 
di fantasma che le ombre (né anime — ripeto — né corpi, ma un quid 
intermedio) non possono non provocare sul pellegrino che le osserva e si rivolge 
a loro; e l’effetto di fantasma che il pellegrino, per la sua presenza di corpo- 
anima, eccita sulle ombre. 

La retorica pil immediatamente evidente, nella descrizione dantesca delle 
apparizioni che popolano 1’al di 1a, ¢ quella della corporeita o plasticita — della 
concreta evidenza fisica. E una retorica cui ha aderito la critica laica e romantica, 
ma che non é stata revocata in dubbio nemmeno dalla critica allegorica. La quale 
indica (giustamente) la dimensione allegorica di queste figure ultraterrene; ma 
questa non é cosa che, di per sé, conduca a mettere in discussione la illusoria 
solidita di queste statue. 

E invece, é sull’effetto fantasmatico che si giuoca la variazione filosofico- 
teologica dentro il poema. Non sottoscrivendo a teorie che erigano barriere tra 
elaborazione poetica e speculazione filosofica,!° é per me importante vedere qual 
sia il punto in cui Dante non ha piti il sostegno delle sue fonti tradizionali ed é, 
per cosi dire, costretto ad inventarsi teorie. 

L’unico luogo forse in tutta la Commedia in cui questa inventivita sembra 


9 A differenza di quel che accade nell’Inferno, gli spiriti in Paradiso non reagiscono in alcun 
modo alla, per cosi dire, antropologia della presenza del pellegrino tra loro. Le due retoriche 
narrative diverse riflettono chiaramente situazioni spirituali differenti. 

10 Da questo punto di vista, posizioni nettamente contrarie come il panestetismo di un 
Benedetto Croce (vedi nota 1) e l’antiestetismo di un René Guénon (vedi nota 3) giungono poi a 
una stessa conseguenza negativa: cioé la sottovalutazione del valore propriamente conoscitivo 
del linguaggio letterario. 


286 Paolo Valesio 


indisputabile é la teoria delle ombre, cosi come essa é delineata per bocca di 
Stazio — in quello che apparentemente é un discorso unitario, ma che é in realta 
costituito da due segmenti eterogenei. Nemmeno 1’alta eloquenza di Dante riesce 
a rimediare alla bruschezza del salto. Nella prima parte infatti (Purg. XX V 37-81) 
della sua lunga lectio Stazio espone quella che oggi si chiamerebbe la teoria 
standard sulla formazione dell’anima, con rinforzo di allusioni aristotelico- 
tomistiche, accompagnate dalla rituale critica ad Averroé. Inutile parafrasare qui 
l’esposizione dantesca — se non per notare come Dante rincalzi quella che 
correrebbe il rischio di essere una spiegazione troppo astratta con una vigoria 
d’immagini tale da creare, in filigrana, la scena pil) sanguignamente e 
direttamente sessuale di tutta la Commedia.'! Ma poi: comincia tutt’altro 
discorso, che conclude (82-108) la lezione in una vena diversa. E una descrizione 
tanto esangue quanto la precedente era sanguigna; é (sopra tutto) un’analisi 
virtualmente priva di sostegni in quella forte tradizione filosofico-teologica cui 
l’autore aveva appena fatto ricorso nelle sue precedenti parole. 

Che Dante sia consapevole della delicatezza di questa transizione in quanto 
passaggio da una ortodossia a una eterodossia é provato chiaramente dal modo in 
cui egli tenta di dissimularla: passando cioé da una teoria all’altra nel bel mezzo 
di una terzina, cosi da comunicare retoricamente |’illusione di una continuita 
filosofica che in effetti non sussiste: 


l’altre potenze tutte quante mute; 
memoria, intelligenza e volontade 
in atto molto pit che prima agute. 
(Purg. XXV 82-84) 


Il primo verso é una chiara descrizione dell’ammutolirsi (temporaneo, in 
attesa della Resurrezione) di tutte le facolta al momento — qui descritto — della 
morte corporale; ma perché mai queste facolta di origine divina dovrebbero 
divenire molto piu “agute” nella loro azione dopo la morte? 

Appare qui l’ombra della tradizione gnostica ed ermetica, con il suo forte 
senso del corpo come prigione che impedisce allo spirito di realizzarsi 
completamente. Ci si aspetterebbe, comunque, che questo acuirsi delle facolta 
spiegasse la genesi dell’entita, intermedia tra corpo e anima, che sta per essere 
descritta. Ma Dante si rende conto che cid condurrebbe a un’assurdita; 
nell’impaccio, non gli resta che ricorrere a una . . . resurrezione della “virti 
formativa” (89) — che é una via d’uscita molto artificiale, poiché questa forza o 
facolta era stata gia descritta (al v.1, con il sinonimo di virti “informativa’”) 
come quella che trasforma il sangue purificato nelle varie membra del corpo 


11 gj rilegga in questa prospettiva Purg. XXV 44-48, con quel “disposto a patire”, e quel “geme” 
che é fortemente ambivalente tra il senso di “gocciolare”, “stillare” e il senso di “lamentarsi 
sommessamente”. 








| La vena ermetica nella Commedia 287 
| 
| umano; dunque, presumibilmente, una qualche cosa che ha cessato il suo 
compito e non é pil presente al momento in cui tale sua creazione muore. 
_ Invece, questa misteriosamente riapparsa virti “(in)formativa” si irraggia intorno 
all’anima, divenendo qualitativamente e quantitativamente simile a un corpo 
umano — e (ma questa “e”, non dovrebbe invece essere una “‘o”? Sembra che qui 
abbiamo un’ipotesi alternativa), e/o l’aria circostante all’anima assume la forma 
che essa virtualmente vi imprime e diviene l’ombra, soggetta alle manifestazioni 
e sensazioni fisiche: “segue lo spirto sua forma novella” (Purg. XXV 99). Ma: 
“touchant la formation de l’ombre, aucun commentateur que je connaisse n’a 
trouvé de lieu paralléle 4 citer. En 1’état actuel de notre information, la doctrine 
appartient en propre a Dante.”!? Io non presumo certo qui di rintracciare i “luoghi 
_ paralleli” che Etienne Gilson non ha trovato; mi permetto solo di suggerire che 
_ forse le nostre ricerche non debbono incamminarsi lungo la stessa via maestra 
teologica ai bordi della quale rinveniamo i riscontri e le fonti che mostrano 
l’ideologia per cosi dire ufficiale della Commedia. 

Nel citato discorso di Stazio, Dante oscilla tra la retorica della metafisica 
ortodossa e il linguaggio di una tradizione iniziatica che é in costante movimento 
tra la cultura “alta” (scritta, istituzionalizzata) e quella “bassa” (riposante in parte 
su fonti orali, ed evocante esperienze ai margini della rispettabilita sociale ed 
accademica). 

Quella che Dante descrive @ un’esperienza comune a tutta una gamma di 
descrizioni esoteriche: la creazione di un fantasma.!3 

Che questa mossa sia in ultima analisi dettata da una preoccupazione estetica 
(problema del poeta: come altrimenti conferire vivezza drammatica ai suoi 
personaggi e descrizioni?) non diminuisce |l’importanza teologica e filosofica 
dell’innovazione che viene qui introdotta — anzi la rende ancor piu significativa. 
Cid che osserviamo infatti é una delle genealogie fondanti — nella tradizione 
letteraria occidentale — di quello sperimentalismo radicale che a volte viene 
frettolosamente considerato come tratto distintivo del modernismo: assistiamo 
cioé al caso di un autore che — dietro la spinta di un’esigenza estetica — 
modifica lo statuto ontologico dell’universo che egli descrive. 

La teo-logica (0, come propongo nel saggio citato alla nota 1, la teoretorica) 
di Dante, in questo punto (che é tutt’altro che un dettaglio — é in effetti uno 


12 Vedi p. 32 (e anche le pp. 34, 36, 40) del saggio "Qu’est-ce qu’une ‘ombre’? (Dante, Purg. 
XXV)” in Gilson, Dante et Béatrice (il saggio in questione apparve originariamente nel 1965). 
13 In questa prospettiva, sarebbe necessario considerare anche quelle teorie alchemiche di 
ambito orientale secondo le quali per ottenere l’immortalita occorre costruire una versione 
sottilizzata e sublimata del proprio corpo. Queste tradizioni andranno poi messe a riscontro, 
non solo con la tradizione della magia in Occidente, ma anche con le possibilita fantasmatiche 
implicite nelle pid “rispettabili” teorie metafisiche. Per esempio, l’abbozzo di una vera e 
propria teoria delle ombre si trova in certe considerazioni di San Tommaso: “licet corporalia 
dicantur esse in aliquo sicut in continente, tamen spiritualia continent ea in quibus sunt, ut 
anima continet corpus . . .” (Swmma theol.I qu. 8 a.1). 


288 Paolo Valesio 


degli assi dell’intero poema), non é pit la teo-logica metafisica dell’universita. E 
una teo-logica fantasmatica — la teo-logica di chi passa e ripassa la frontiera 
dell’al di 1a (tras-gredendola) prima dell’ora della sua morte. (“Et j’ai deux fois 
vainqueur traversé I’ Achéron” . . . e non si gridi all’acronismo, per questa glossa 
tratta da “El Desdichado” . . . il verso conturbante di Gérard de Nerval, nell’ alta 
visione romantica che esso emblematizza, trova peraltro la sua genealogia 
proprio in questo tipo di visione tardomedievale). Prende forma a questo punto 
una tipologia (quella che potrei chiamare, se non temessi di suonare troppo 
scientista, una tassonomia degli statuti fantasmatici), che qui mi limito a 
delineare per sommi capi. 

A prima vista, la divisione sembra chiara: da un lato il pellegrino (che si 
muove in anima-e-corpo), dall’altro le ombre: a un certo punto (inizio del 
Paradiso) il pellegrino ci lascia nell’ incertezza, riguardo al suo corpo;!4 e quanto 
alle ombre, si é gia veduta la stranezza del loro statuto. Ma la tipologia 
fantasmatica della Commedia é ancora pit! complessa. Non mi riferisco tanto alla 
presenza di puri spiriti — gli angeli e i diavoli — quanto piuttosto alle 
avvisaglie di anime/ombre; e inoltre, alle anime/ombre il cui corpo non é ancora 
morto. Mi spiego, in quest’ ordine. 

Il preavviso 0 avvisaglia del prossimo arrivo di un’anima — sia che emerga 
indirettamente e in forma drammatica (come avviene nel sinistro malinteso sulla 
presenza di Bonifazio VIII in Inf. XIX 46-66), sia che costituisca l’esplicito 
oggetto di un preannunzio solenne (é il caso della pre-visione sull’arrivo di 
Arrigo VII, in Par. XXX 133-38) — non é solo la sottolineatura, retoricamente 
efficace, di una classificazione etica (questo @ l’effetto immediatamente 
appariscente). E anche qualche cosa di pit sottile e, in ultima analisi, pid 
conturbantemente suggestivo: é un’altra dimensione del fantasmatico. 

Tra quel fantasma che é il pellegrino (a cagione della sua corporeita, per 
quanto tale corporeita sia oscillante) e quei fantasmi che sono i trapassati (in 
forza — o in debolezza — del loro statuto umbratile) s’insinua un fantasma che é 
ancora pil difficile da afferrare: il non-ancor-presente — la persona che non é 
ancora li, sulla scena del mondo ultraterreno: né in anima, né in corpo, né in 
ombra.!5 

Ma lo statuto pit’ chiaramente fantasmatico @ quello delle anime che si 
riferiscono a corpi ancora viventi. Qui tocchiamo un punto il cui sviluppo 
richiederebbe un’ intiera monografia: il contrasto (gia accennato) fra cultura colta, 
per cosi dire, e cultura popolare. L’ermetismo vive tra queste due culture (e 
questo spiega, sia il suo persistente fascino, sia il fatto che troppo sovente esso 


14 Una volta posti sull’avviso, non possiamo non accorgerci che anche in questo caso non é pid 

sufficiente la semplcie dicotomia di anima e corpo. Dante vuole forse suggerire anche nel caso 
suo la presenza di qualche cosa di intermedio, una proiezione fantasmatica. 

15 Cj sarebbe da svolgere tutta un’analisi dettagliata, su questa poeto-logica dell’avvisaglia 

lungo il corso della Commedia. 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 289 


appare in forme deludenti e rozze). 

E, quello di cui sto parlando, un episodio minore nel poema: ma é d’altra 
parte forse il pid strano e fantastico; la sua importanza epistemologica va al di 1a 
della bizzarria, poiché esso descrive una vera e propria variazione ontologica. E 
significativo che Dante introduca tale variazione in modo esitante, quasi di 
soppiatto. I personaggi di cui egli parla, infatti, sono dal punto di vista storico 
“comparse”, rapidamente nominate nella parte finale del canto occupato dalla 
storia del conte Ugolino — da quello dunque che @ uno dei punti pit noti e 
popolari dell’intera Commedia. 

Sembra che il poeta abbia calcolato che la tensione mentale del lettore, 
totalmente impegnata dall’alta tragedia dei versi precedenti, sia a questo punto 
rilassata e disposta a trascorrere velocemente su questi ultimi versi, 
considerandoli come una sinistra piccola commedia (con I|’iniziale minuscola) 
fulmineamente concentrata (come accade di solito nel poema); quasi alla stregua 
del dramma satiresco che seguiva |’antica trilogia tragica. In effetti, il tono 
comico qui non manca — basta rileggere la domanda posta da Dante a frate 
Alberigo: “‘oh”, diss’ io lui, “or se’ tu ancor morto?’” (Inf. XX XIII 121), una 
domanda il cui tono brutalmente casuale marca un netto sbalzo di stile.!® 

Questo tono non é uno scivolone accidentale: la sua funzione é quella di 
ridurre (con la cautela di chi sa di stare enunziando una dottrina problematica) la 
portata dell’affermazione seguente di frate Alberigo. Il quale spiega che “‘spesse 
volte” (125) l’anima di coloro che sono condannati alla terza suddivisione di 
Cocito (Tolomea) — e si tratta, com’é noto, dei traditori dei propri ospiti — 
cade all’inferno prima della morte del corpo. E il corpo continua a vivere, lassi 
in terra: ma é un demonio, non pit |’anima del traditore, che abita tale corpo 
(vedi i vv. 123-38). Cosi strana appare questa informazione che, benché Alberigo 
abbia esplicitamente menzionato Branca d’Oria come uno di questi morti 
viventi,!” il pellegrino ribatte che cid non puo essere: Branca d’ Oria svolge tutte 
le funzioni fisiologiche d’un uomo in carne e ossa (139-41). Solo dopo che 
Alberigo ribadisce la sua spiegazione (il corpo di Branca, e cosi pure quello di un 
suo parente complice nel tradimento, é vivo, ma i due corpi sono occupati 
ciascuno da un diavolo invece che dalle rispettive anime; vedi vv. 142-47), solo 


16 Ancora una volta, mi limito ad accennare alla possibilita di un’analisi dettagliata di questi — 
come chiamarli — sberleffi di stile, con cui il grande poeta mostra il rovescio della medaglia 
ch’egli sta faticosamente coniando. 

17 Questa é la genealogia profonda della ben nota novella, o Favola, di “Belfagor arcidiavolo” 
ovvero del “Demonio che prese moglie” di Machiavelli —genealogia che non sembra avere 
ancor ricevuto |’attenzione dovuta. E, a proposito di diavoli e demoni: il nome di messer d’ Oria 
(Branca) riceve in questo contesto una convalida para-etimologica, rinviando a un’immagine di 
grinfia o artiglio che viene esplicitamente rilevata dalla menzione, immediatamente successiva 
a questo nome, dei Malebranche (142). Pid sottilmente, questo Branca riecheggia il verbo usato 
nel momento culminante della tragedia di Ugolino: “. . . ond’io mi diedi, / gia cieco, a brancolar 
sovra ciascuno” (Inf. XXXII 72-73). 


290 Paolo Valesio 


allora il pellegrino echeggia la spiegazione d’ Alberigo parafrasandola (vv. 156- 
57, conclusivi del canto). Ma la forza di questa descrizione é arginata e come 
diminuita dal suo esser presentata come parte di un’invettiva municipalistica 
contro i Genovesi (151-53). 

E chiaro, dunque, che Dante é incerto su come usare questa teoria sullo stato 
delle anime nell’al di 14 rispetto ai corpi. Tale idea infatti — di attribuire lo 
statuto di morti-viventi ad alcuni soltanto degli spiriti (scelti con quale criterio?), 
e abitanti una sola sezione dell’ Inferno — é alquanto confusa, e non sembra 
all’altezza delle forti sintesi filosofiche che dominano la Commedia. Ma 
appunto: il disagio nella descrizione non é un cedimento casuale — é 
l’espressione della difficolta che l’autore prova a combinare due tipi diversi di 
teologia: una teologia fantasmatica, di tipo esoterico, che ha radici (le quali 
debbono essere studiate senza disdegno intellettualistico) nel mondo delle 
tradizioni popolari, e una teologia metafisica, saldamente rincalzata (anche 
troppo, a volte — tanto che la saldezza rischia di rivoltarsi nel suo opposto) 
dagli autori pit autorevoli. Propongo ora, in breve, alcuni corollari di questa mia 
ipotesi. 


* 


Nella gia citata Epistola a Can Grande, un certo offuscamento annebbia il 
confine tra i due ultimi livelli di senso, nella famosa analisi del versetto “In 
exitu Israel de Egipto”: 


si ad moralem sensum, significatur nobis conversio anime de luctu et miseria peccati 
ad statum gratiae; si ad anagogicum, significatur exitus anime sancte ab huius 


corruptionis servitute ad eterne glorie libertatem. 
(Ep. XIII 7) 


Il senso anagogico cosi come esso viene qui esposto appare ripetitivo rispetto 
all’appena enunziato senso morale. Potrebbe trattarsi di una penna diversa da 
quella dantesca — oppure della difficolta, specificamente dantesca, di enunziare 
un messaggio che lo scrittore non vuole rendere troppo esplicito. Ma questo 
messaggio urge; ed esce fuori, com’era da aspettarsi, non nel metalinguaggio 
dell’ Epistola,'® bensi nel linguaggio direttamente poetico del Paradiso, 1a dove & 
spiegato come a Dante sia stato concesso, con speciale permesso, “che d’Egitto / 
vegna in Ierusalemme” (Par. XXV 55-57). E qui che il poeta ci fa capire per che 
cosa stia l’Egitto: non tanto per “terra” nel senso generico di territorio, paese, 
quanto per “terra” nel senso di materia, di fisicita corporale. Vi é qui una 
tradizione ermetica (il cui motto, potremmo dire, @ ex Oriente materia anzi che 
ex Oriente lux) che si trova riflessa per esempio nelle parole di Filone 


18 sy questo problema si veda anche Hardie, “The Epistle to Cangrande again”. 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 291 


d’ Alessandria, quand’egli spiega che colui il quale “é amico del sapere pit vario 
deve di necessita essere assoggettato al corpo terroso e egiziano, perché ha 
bisogno degli orecchi per vedere, delle orecchie per ascoltare e udire, e degli altri 
sensi per cogliere ognuno degli oggetti sensibili.”!9 In questo passo del Paradiso, 
dunque, Dante ci informa (nei limiti della chiarezza che egli pud permettersi) di 
essere presente solo in ispirito, essendosi liberato dai legami della carne. Questo 
ci richiama all’accenno forse pit stranamente bizzarro dell’/nferno : Virgilio che 
dichiara di esser stato gia una volta all’ Inferno, per i sortilegi della maga Eritén 
(Inf. TX 22-30). Gia Renucci (a p. 315 dell’articolo citato alla nota 2) ha 
osservato come cid che pili conta sia che l’evocazione del magismo non-cristiano 
sia qui connessa a un’esortazione, non genericamente rivolta a ogni lettore, ma 
specificamente a coloro che hanno gli “intelletti sani”, a penetrare “sotto il 
velame de li versi strani” (61-63). Senza entrare in una discussione di questo 
episodio,”° mi limito a sottolineare che vi é una forte ma problematica 
simmetria tra il movimento di Dante all’inizio dell’ultima cantica e quello di 
Virgilio: Dante passa lentamente fuori dal corpo per cominciare l’ascesa 
paradisiaca, dopo aver lasciato dietro di sé quel Virgilio che all’inizio del viaggio 
gli aveva spiegato di essere stato temporaneamente “congiurato” dentro il corpo 
mortale ch’egli aveva da poco lasciato per poter scortare sulla terra l’anima che 
egli deve trasportare fuor dall’ Inferno — anima che presumibilmente viene essa 
stessa “congiurata” o scongiurata dentro il proprio corpo (e vi é qui un altro 
rapporto contrastivo: con la situazione di Branca d’Oria e degli altri a lui simili, 
il cui corpo é occupato da un demonio). 

Muovendomi rapidamente (nello scorcio che costituisce l’ultima parte di 
questo saggio), richiamo ora il ben noto inizio del canto XVIII del Paradiso, e 
precisamente il punto in cui Cacciaguida, descrivendo a Dante il cielo quinto 
(quello di Marte) lo situa all’interno della struttura generale del Paradiso, della 
quale egli parla come di 

Me Res, Sie questa quinta soglia 
dell’albero che vive de la cima 
e frutta sempre e mai non perde foglia” 
(Par. XVIII 28-30). 


Questo concetto pud apparire a prima vista come nulla pili che un elegante 
conceit: se tutta la struttura del Paradiso é presentata nei termini di una metafora 
dell’albero, quest’albero @ tale che riceve il nutrimento dall’alto (il cielo 
Empireo) piu tosto che dal basso. Ma una riflessione molto pit profonda é@ qui 


19 Si veda il paragrafo V del trattato // connubio con gli studi preliminari, a p. 110 della raccolta 
di trattati di Filone d’ Alessandria sintetizzati sotto il titolo L’uomo e Dio. 

0 L’ipotesi da sviluppare, comunque, @ che Dante compia una mossa metalinguistica, nel solco 
di tutta la tradizione medievale che “magizza” Virgilio, attribuendo a Virgilio come personaggio 
nella sua narrativa un’esperienza che Virgilio aveva descritto come autore (Eneide VI 724-51). 


292 Paolo Valesio 


all’opera. L’immagine di un albero che riceve il suo nutrimento dall’alto @ 
l’eufemizzazione di un’ idea poetico-filosofica che é (letteralmente) sovvertente; 
l’idea di un albero rovesciato, con le radici al posto della chioma. In questo 
rovesciamento 0 inversione v’é qualche cosa di inquietante, che evoca un vasto 
archetipo. Ma innanzi tutto @ necessario seguire la strategia infratestuale 
(evidenza, una volta ancora, della forma). 

L’immagine riprende e rafforza quella evocata dallo stesso Cacciaguida 
quand’ egli si rivolge a Dante nel canto precedente: “‘O cara piota mia che si 
tinsusi’” (Par. XVII 13). Il concetto di una radice che si solleva verso |’alto anzi 
che affondare in basso suscita essenzialmente la stessa perplessita evocata da un 
albero che “vive de la cima.”! Tanto é vero cid, che l’immagine qui emersa si 
rifrange molto pit in basso, nel regno doloroso. Essa ci riporta infatti al gia 
menzionato cerchio ottavo (nona bolgia) dove i simoniaci sono confitti a capo in 
git entro i fori intagliati nella pietra: 


Fuor della bocca a ciascun soperchiava 
d’un peccator li piedi e delle gambe 
infino al grosso e |’altro dentro stava. 
(Inf. XIX 22-24) 


La similitudine che galleggia in superficie é quella tra l’uomo e un pezzo di 
legno morto: “anima triste come pal commessa” (Inf. XIX 47). Ma non é lungo, 
il passaggio da un palo a un albero: e Dante sottolinea questo parallelismo in 
modo addirittura flagrante, usando la stessa parola, piota, appena citata nei versi 
del Paradiso. L’ombra di papa Niccold III infatti “forte spingava con ambo le 
piote” (Inf. XIX 120). E vero che qui piota significa “pianta del piede” e 
sineddochicamente “piede”, mentre la cara piota del succitato Par. XVII 13 si 
riferisce alla “porzione di terriccio unita alle radici di una pianta, per facilitarne 
l’attecchimento dopo il trapianto”. Ma insomma, siamo pur dentro lo stesso 
lessema, e all’ombra dello stesso etimo.”” Piota (grottesca sineddoche in Inf. 
XIX, metafora sublimante in Par. XVII) punta allo stesso referente: il corpo 
umano. Ci interessano, qui, la sua posizione e la sua valenza simbolica. 

In questo caso la “imaginativa” poetica esprime una filosofia assai peculiare. 
L’apparenza é quella di una chiara geometria spirituale: vediamo l’uomo nella sua 
stazione eretta, la quale diverra (sopra tutto con la retorica umanistica) emblema 


21 La linea ragionativa, qui come altrove, é intrecciata e complicata da associazioni poetiche 
che proliferano con una generosita estrema, ai limiti del razionale. Alla fine del canto 
precedente, Dante si era fatto paragonare (da Cacciaguida) al vento “‘che le pit alte cime pid 
percuote’” (Par. XVII 134). E poco dopo, l’immagine della pianta si propaggina in un altro 
sviluppo, quando si parla metaforicamente di un esempio in un ragionamento che abbia “‘la sua 
radice incognita e ascosa’” (Par. XVII 141). 

22 Secondo la lettura accolta dal Grande dizionario della lingua italiana, l’etimologia é quella del 
tardolatino plota (vedi classico plauta); insomma, la cosa “piatta”. 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 293 


di cid che distingue l’uomo in quanto umano dal resto degli animali nel creato 
(testa alta e levata al cielo, piedi saldamente posati sulla terra). Tale stazione é, 
nell’Inferno, invertita (con chiara lezione morale): queste “anime triste” hanno i 
piedi la dove dovrebbero avere il capo. 

Ma le immagini appena citate dal Paradiso revocano tutto cid in dubbio. Cid 
che le citate parole di Cacciaguida evocano é nulla meno che questo: tutto il 
Paradiso veduto come un albero invertito, che reca le radici la dove dovrebbe 
avere la sua chioma o corona di fronde. E il pellegrino stesso, invece d’esser 
paragonato a (per esempio) uno che s’inerpichi lungo il tronco di un albero per 
raggiungere la corona di foglie,”? @ assimilato a una radice che si “‘insusa”.24 
Tutto cid apre una prospettiva ermetica, cui si accenna qui per sommi capi. 

Uno dei tratti pid originali nel mito degli angeli caduti cosi come esso @ 
narrato dai commentatori arabi antichi a proposito della seconda sura del Corano 
é il seguente: i due angeli peccatori sono puniti essendo appesi, piedi in alto e 
testa in basso, dentro un pozzo situato nella citta di Babilonia; e 1a essi 
resteranno fino al giorno del Giudizio. Di 14, perd, continuano a sviare gli 
uomini, insegnando loro la magia e le arti proibite; ma essi sono visibili solo a 
colui che si rechi al luogo dove stanno, appositamente per ottenere il loro 
insegnamento.”> Assai pit tardi, nella pit brillante rivisitazione della teologia 
cui assista il maturo Rinascimento in Europa, Francois Rabelais immagina 
Antiphysie, “laquelle de tous temps est partie adverse de Nature”, mentre essa 
tenta di dimostrare che i suoi due figliuoli deformi sono piu belli dei due figli 
(“Beaulté et Harmonie”) di Physis: 


Avoir les pieds en l’air, la teste en bas, estoit imitation du Créateur de 1’Univers, veu 
que les cheveulx sont en "homme comme racines, les jambes comme rameaux, car les 
arbres plus commodément sont en terre fichées sur leurs racines que ne seroient sus 
leurs rameaux, par ceste démonstration alléguant que trop mieulx, plus aptement 
estoient ses enfans comme une arbre droicte, que ceulx de Physis, lesquelz estoient 
comme une arbre renversée. 

(Gargantua et Pantagruel, Libro IV, cap. 32)6 


23 Questa non é una mera possibilita astratta, bensi una precisa altemmativa di cui Dante é ben 
consapevole. Come mostra la similitudine in uno dei canti seguenti: “E quel baron che si di ramo 
in ramo, / essaminando, gia tratto m’avea,/ che a l’ultime fronde appressavamo” (Par. XXIV 
115-17). 
24 Questa parola mostra una protrusione o intrusione quasi violenta — come é confermato da 
un’altra eco in Paradiso di questa immagine infemale, dove si ribadisce la condanna del papa 
simoniaco Clemente V: “ch’el sara detruso / 14 dove Simon mago é per suo merto / e fara quel 
d’Alagna intrar pid giuso” (Par. XXX 146-48; si noti il forte cozzo delle rime). 
25 Vari resoconti sono raccolti in Littman, “Harut und Marut”, (e in particolare, p. 81). Vedi 
anche Bamberger. 

I commentatori (vedi per esempio Rabelais, Oeuvres complétes, p. 628) annotano il debito di 
Rabelais — ancora una volta — verso 1’Umanesimo italiano (Caelius Calcagninus, in questo 
caso). Ma, alla luce della genealogia dantesca appena indicata, tutta questa tradizione andra 


294 Paolo Valesio 


Quella dell’albero filosofico (arbor philosophica) & un’immagine vastamente 
diffusa nella tradizione alchemica per alludere al coronamento dell’ opus, la Pietra 
Filosofale.2” Questa connessione ha una portata filosofica generale, ovvero 
strategica; ma anche una valenza tattica e specifica, per il canto dell’Inferno che é 
stato appena descritto. Cid che é stato fin qui detto, infatti, aiuta a meglio 
comprendere il particolar modo di punizione dei simoniaci. Perché costoro sono 
confitti a capo in basso dentro la terra? Perché la figura che essi vengono cosi a 
creare — quella di una arbor philosophica invertita — allude all’aspetto pid 
misterioso del loro peccato. Che non é il suo aspetto razionalmente utilitaristico 
(l’aver reso benefizi spirituali oggetto di compravendita), bensi 1’elemento 
secondo il quale l’attivita simoniaca si configura come un’imitazione 
dell’esperienza alchemica al suo livello degradato: il livello per cui, invece di 
un’esperienza spirituale contemplativa e formativa, l’alchimia pud decadere in 
una forma di avidita, concentrata sulla fabbricazione dell’oro allo scopo di 
acquistar ricchezza. 

Chiara riprova di cid (evidenza della forma) é la particolare densita verbale 
nella descrizione del peccato simoniaco: 


che le cose di Dio che di bontate 
deon essere spose, e voi rapaci 
per oro e per argento avolterate 
(Inf. XIX 2-4) 


A livello di superficie, la metafora sembra chiara: “le cose di Dio” sono pure, e 
destinate come legittime spose alla “bontate” — ma i simoniaci (con azione 
ruffianesca) le rendono “adultere”, prostituendole ad altri in cambio di “oro” e di 
“argento”. Ma, a guardar bene, questa metafora é curiosamente sbilanciata, tanto 
da apparire confusa: in vista della tensione sessuale creata dall’idea di adulterio, vi 


riesplorata. 
27 Vedi i numerosi riferimenti in Jung, Psychology and Alchemy; e in particolare l’immagine 
riprodotta a p. 256. Tratta da un manoscritto italiano del XIV secolo, essa mostra la arbor 
philosophica che cresce rigogliosa fuor dall’inguine di un Adamo emaciato e trafitto dalla freccia 
di Mercurio. Emerge qui con forza il rapporto tra il primo albero del primo Adamo e il secondo 
albero (la Croce) del secondo Adamo. Su questo vi é tutta una tradizione edificante (si pensi al 
Lignum vitae di San Bonaventura), ma anche una visione pit’ drammatica, per la quale bisogna 
risalire, ancora una volta, a una genealogia paolina: “Christus nos redemit de maledicto legis, 
factus pro nobis maledictum, quia scriptum est: ‘Maledictus omnis qui pendet in ligno’” (Gal. 
3:13). Dove Paolo (con il metodo di teologia simbolica che trionfera, a tacer d’altri, nello 
Pseudo-Dionigi Areopagita) si appropria in maniera (stra)volgente di un’immagine della Bibbia 
ebraica, al luogo in cui essa specifica che, quando un condannato viene appeso alla forca, “non 
permanebit cadaver eius in ligno; sed in eadem die sepelietur, quia maledictus a Deo est qui 
pendet in ligno” (Deut. 21:23). 

Quando la parola alchimia appara nel testo della Commedia, essa viene connessa alla 
falsificazione dei metalli (vedi Jnf. XXIX 119, 137). 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 295 


@ qualche cosa di bizzarro in queste spose destinate a un’entita femminile (la 
Bonta); e un’ulteriore dislivello emerge, tra questo sposo/sposa legittimo e i non 
meglio definiti proci o corteggiatori illegittimi. Come mai, dunque, questa 
immagine mantiene tanta forza? Perché cid che in essa predomina non é il 
macchinario appena descritto, bensi una rapida e vivida idea di trasformazione — 
la trasmutazione alchemica in diversi stati di materia. Ed ecco che — verifica 
infratestuale — l’arcaica forma “avolterare” per “adulterare” rivela la sua 
funzionalita poetica, per via dell’eco fonica che essa proietta rispetto ad altri 
verbi, come (ri)voltare e (stra)volgere. 

Quel che resta nella mente, insomma, é il balenio di quest’oro e di questo 
argento; la coppia metallica infatti € nominata altre due volte in questo canto: 


Né Pier né li altri tolsero a Matia 
oro od argento.... 
(Inf. XIX 94-95) 


Fatto v’avete dio d’oro e d’argento 
(Inf. XTX 112) 


Ma restiamo ancora per un poco sullo scintillio di questi metalli. . .. La 
domanda su cui termino questa analisi é una di quelle petites questions stupides 
(per riprendere la frase ironica di Denis de Rougemont) dalle quali in realta 
dipendono concetti di non lieve importanza — e la domanda é: di che colore é la 
Rosa Empirea? 

Di primo acchito, la risposta non potrebbe essere pit chiara; questa rosa é 
bianca: 


In forma dunque di candida rosa 
mi si mostrava la milizia santa 


Ma ci dovrebbe gia mettere in sospetto quella transizione, dunque. Se il suo 
valore semantico fosse semplicemente quello di un asseverativo generico, 
significante “come dicevo”, “appunto”, o simili, non si tratterebbe certo di una 
transizione all’altezza della maestria consumata con cui |’autore é abituato a 
muoversi di canto in canto. Questo dunque deve avere un’altra forza. La 
spiegazione pit probabile @ che esso sia un correttivo, 0 quanto meno una 
precisazione. Ma, correzione o precisazione di che? Del fatto che il poeta ci ha 


appena detto che la rosa é gialla: 


Nel giallo della rosa sempiterna 


mi trasse Beatrice, e disse: “Mira 


296 Paolo Valesio 


. 


quanto é 1 convento delle bianche stole!” 
(Par. XXX 124-29) 


Come risolvere questa potenziale contraddizione? Pensare a una distinzione tra un 
bocciolo giallo e petali bianchi é certo possibile, ma alquanto semplicistico.29 Si 
puo concepire allora una rosa meta gialla e meta bianca. Ma questa immagine 
verrebbe a intersecarsi con immagini eterogenee, e potenzialmente disturbanti: il 
potere ecclesiale emblematizzato dalla coppia di chiave d’ oro e chiave d’argento 
(“pria con la bianca e poscia con la gialla” in Purg. IX 119) e, peggio, la visione 
di Lucifero — delle cui tre facce quella di destra “parea tra bianca e gialla” (Inf. 
XXXIV 43). Ci accostiamo alla soluzione quando accogliamo I’ osservazione (gia 
formulata da alcuni commentatori) che l’aggettivo candido debba essere inteso in 
senso etimologico (vedi latino candeo, “scintillare”), riferendosi dunque a uno 
stato di brillante scintillio pit tosto che a un colore specifico. Questa candida 
rosa insomma é primariamente una “rosa incandescente.”?° La descrizione 
dantesca, in effetti, sembra cogliere non tanto una qualita statica quanto un 
passaggio nel tempo — una modificazione o intensificazione; ed ecco 
ulteriormente giustificata la razionalita della transizione in quel dunque. Dante sta 
descrivendo un, per cosi dire, surriscaldamento della rosa, la quale giunge 
all’equivalente spirituale di uno stato di calor bianco. 

Viene in mente a questo proposito un passo di San Tommaso: “quod est 
calidum, potest habere aliquid extraneum quam calidum, ut albedinem; sed ipse 
calor nihil habet praeter calorem” (Summa Theologiae I, q. 3 a. 7). Tale 
riferimento esemplificativo all’albedo (termine che ha anche una valenza 
alchemica) avviene nel contesto di una discussione in cui Tommaso (citando, fra 
altri, Boezio) si occupa della distinzione tra sostanza-accidente. II ragionamento 
dunque sarebbe questo: la coloritura bianca di un corpo riscaldato oltre una certa 
temperatura é un effetto dell’azione del calore — come tale, é accidentale rispetto 
a quella sostanza che é il calore. (A riprova della pertinenza contestuale del passo 
di Tommaso: quando Dante, poco dopo, tentera di definire i termini della sua 
visione finale nella rosa, parlera, in Par. XXXIII 88, di “sustanze e accidenti e lor 
costume.”) 


29 Questa spiegazione naturalistica si trova gia in alcuni commentatori antichi (vedi un 
riferimento in Alighieri, La divina commedia, a c. di Sapegno). Ma 1l’accostamento 
dell’aggettivo sostantivato giallo e dell’attributo sempiterno crea un’atmosfera alta e solenne, 
in cui il giallo acquista lo splendore permanente dell’ oro. 

Aggiungo qui un esempio genealogicamente autorevole come quello di Agostino. La dove per 
esempio egli distingue tra i doni della scientia (che, per quanto importanti sono mutevoli e 
“tantum in principio noctis sunt”) e quelli pid importanti della sapientia. I primi, “quantum 
differunt ab illo candore sapientiae, quo gaudet praedictus dies” (Confessiones XIII 18.3; vedi il 
testo latino in St. Augustine's Confessions). Il senso dominante é quello dell’incandescenza, 
anche se qui esso @ connesso a un’idea di chiarore. Ma pid . . . chiara emerge l’idea di 
incandescenza poco dopo: “et dies sole candens eructet diei verbum sapientiae” (Confessiones 


XIII 19). 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 297 


Insomma la Rosa Empirea é una rosa incandescente — una rosa aurea. 
Candida, come abbiamo visto, si riferisce innanzi tutto al suo stato di 
incandescenza; e in secondo luogo, con mossa sineddochica (momento di 
sovraimpressione del contenuto sul contenente) designa le bianche vesti indossate 
dalle creature che vi stanno dentro. A riprova: gli angeli che si muovono dentro 
la rosa raccolgono in sé i due colori qui presenti, pili lo stato di incandescenza: 
riuniscono, insomma, il colore e il calore: 


Le facce tutte avean di fiamma viva 
e l’ali d’oro, e 1|’altro tanto bianco, 
che nulla neve a quel termine arriva. 
(Par. XXXI 13-15) 


Dunque: una rosa incandescente, una rosa d’oro. E, questo fiore ¢ rovesciato — 
come I’albero tutto che da forma al Paradiso: 


Quei due che seggon 1a su pit felici 
son d’esta rosa quasi due radici. 
(Par. XXXII 118-20) 


Questa idea di paragonare Adamo e San Pietro alle radici del fiore pit tosto che, 
come sembrerebbe pit naturale, agli orli estremi dei petali é — come de “inirla? 
“mero” omamento poetico, concettismo medievistico? 

No; questo é invece il culmine della visione rovesciata. Il Paradiso nella sua 
interezza é paragonato a un albero invertito e cosmicamente vasto, che “vive de 
la cima”. E al vertice di questo rovesciamento svetta una rosa aurea, invertita 
anch’essa (il suo coronamento sono le sue radici). 


xX 


La traduzione di un grande testo @ sempre un cartina di tornasole; é uno 
strumento concreto per verificare la nostra interpretazione dell’ originale. Tutti i 
traduttori moderni in inglese che ho consultato sottolineano moralisticamente la 
frase “ove si lascid l’oro” (Par. XXIII 135) che ho posto in esergo a questo 
saggio. Dunque, quel nudo /ascio diviene un rigido “scorned” o un’espressione di 
“no concern”. Ma vi @ una vecchia traduzione, quella del reverendo Cary 
(Alighieri, The Vision), che rivela una particolare, e tutt’altro che obsoleta, 
sensibilita: 


Here are the treasures tested, that with tears 
Were in the Babylonian exile won, 
When gold had fail’d them. 


298 Paolo Valesio 


Come accade nei momenti migliori, la sensibilita estetica ha un’implicazione 
ermeneutica. Questo abbandono dell’oro marca un progresso spirituale — si, ma 
ogni progresso di questo tipo si paga. II lettore spiritualmente attento sentira 
dunque la connotazione elegiaca di quel verbo. (“Si lascid”: l’epressione 
impersonale sottolinea la solennita, e l’aura di rimpianto; “When gold had fail’d 
them”, appunto.) Si é perduto I’oro. E l’analisi fin qui svolta ha mostrato come 
l’oro che qui appare e traspare non sia soltanto una ricchezza terrena. 
L’ermetismo percorre, come una vena d’oro celata, la gran rupe della Commedia. 
E resta ancora molto, da scavare.*! 


Yale University 


Opere citate 


Alighieri Dante, La divina commedia, a c. di Natalino Sapegno, Firenze, La Nuova 
Italia, 1985. 

, The Divine Comedy, 6 vv., a c. di Charles S. Singleton, Princeton, 
Princeton UP, 1970-1975. 

., Opere minori, Il, Milano: Ricciardi, 1979. 
, The Vision of Purgatory and Paradise, traduzione di Henry Francis Cary, ill. 

di Gustave Doré, London, Cassel, 1910. 

Augustine's Confessions, traduzione di William Watts (1631), 2. vv., London, W. 
Heinemann; New York, Putnam’s Sons, 1931. 

Balzac Honoré de, La Comédie humaine, pref. di Pierre-Georges Castex, ac. di Pierre 
Citron, 7 vv., Paris: Seuil, 1965-1966. 

Bamberger Bernard J., Fallen Angels, Philadelphia, The Jewish Publication Society 
of America, 1952. 

Biblia Sacra Vulgatae Editionis, a c. dei Benedettini dell’ Abbazia di san Gerolamo, 
Torino, Marietti, 1965. 

Croce Benedetto, La poesia di Dante, Bari, Laterza, 1920. 

Evola Julius, La tradizione ermetica: nei suoi simboli, nella sua dottrina e nella sua 
“Arte regia”, Roma, Edizioni Mediterranee, 1984. 

Filone d’ Alessandria, L’uomo e Dio, ac. di Clara Kraus Reggiani, Milano, Rusconi, 
1986. 

Gilson Etienne, Dante et Beatrice: Etudes dantesques, Paris, J. Vrin, 1974 (1965). 

Grande dizionario della lingua italiana, a c. di Salvatore Battaglia, Torino: UTET, 
1961-. 

Guénon René, J re del mondo, Milano, Aelphi, 1989 (1927). 

. L’Esotérisme de Dante, terza ed., Paris: Les Editions Traditionnelles, 1949 

(1925). 


. L’esoterismo cristiano, e San Bernardo, Carmagnola: Oggero Editore, 1989. 








31 Solo a saggio concluso ho potuto prender visione della raccolta miscellanea L’idea deforme. 


La vena ermetica nella Commedia 299 


Hardie C. G., “The Epistle to Cangrande Again,” Deutsches Dante—Jahrbuch XXXVIII 
(1960): 51-74. 

L’idea deforme: interpretazioni esoteriche di Dante, a c. di Maria Pia Pozzato, 
introduzione di Umberto Eco, postfazione di Alberto Asor Rosa, Milano, 
Bompiani, 1989. 

Jung C. G., Psychology and Alchemy, seconda ediz., Princeton, Princeton UP, 1970. 

Littman E., “Harut und Marut”, in Festschrift Friedrich Carl Andreas, Leipzig, Otto 
Harrassowitz, 1916, pp. 70-87. 

Rabelais Francois, Oeuvres complétes, a c. di Jacques Boulenger e Lucien Scheler, 
Paris, Gallimard, 1955. 

Renucci Paul, “Dantismo esoterico nel secolo presente”, in Atti del congresso 
internazionale di studi danteschi , 2 vv., Firenze, Sansoni, 1: 305-32. 

Thomas de Aquino, Summa Theologiae, Roma: Editiones Paulinae, 1962. 

Valesio Paolo, Ascoltare il silenzio: la retorica come teoria, Bologna: Il Mulino, 
1986. 

, “Foreword”, in Erich Auerbach, Scenes from the Drama of European 

Literature, Minneapolis, U of Minnesota P, 1984. 





Tibor Wlassics 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 


Words have no sense, contexts do. E. D. Hirsch’s sample phrase, “The air is 
crisp” (a rather complex statement, — why not simply “good day” or “hi!” or 
“a,” “b,” — each of which has an co number of “meanings”) has been shown by 
Stanley Fish to have no sense without a textual setting (/s there a Text in This 
Class? 310). Even if it is assumed to be composed in the abstract, from 
vocabulary pickings, the phrase takes on a meaning only by virtue of the 
hearers’ spontaneous fitting it out with an imaginary, statistically prevalent, 
context. For a significant percentage of nondescript (= “normal,” “every day”) 
hearers the setting happens to be meteorological, and uncomplicated by the 
endless possibilities of tonal variation — ironic, joyous, desperate, or whatever 
— which may be “added” to the context. But for a special hearer, such as the one 
suggested by Fish, a musician (commenting, let us suppose, on a performance 
of Bach’s “Air” on the G-string), the primary meaning of the phrase may have 
nothing to do with atmospheric conditions. 

It is not hard to think up any number of such contextual determinants. Let 
me suggest a marketing / agribusiness one : a comment on the fresh (maybe 
deceptively so) appearance of, say, packaged cucumbers on the supermarket 
iceshelf: “Those cukes do have a crisp air .. .” — “Yes, the air is crisp. But. . 
.” Let the reader have some fun and create his or her own context to make E. D. 
Hirsch’s immortal phrase cough up other “meanings” — each, mind you, still 
modifiable by a virtually infinite number of affective variations in the speaker’s 
tone. 

Let me readjust, but not essentially change, our initial axiom: a word or 
phrase or utterance, “picked out of a hat,” has as many meanings as there are 
conceivable settings for it. The actual number, considering the course of human 
development (from the invention of speech to the future end of it by the demise 
of the race), is probably finite, even if it appears to us, from where we sit, 
infinite. Ambiguity occurs when the context is bivalent (e.g., when the “Air” is 
performed in the open) or plurivalent (e.g., at the open-air Bach concert 
cucumber sandwiches are handed around). In such cases in “real” life, owing to 
the (deplorably? praiseworthily?) one-track penchant of the human mind, both 
speaker and hearer register a mental “tilt” and, usually with an embarrassed 
smile, hasten to univocalize the context (“I mean the cukes, not J. S.”). It has 
been suggested that in “poetic language” (I put it in quotes to signal my 
uncertainty as to the very existence of such language, distinct from the 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 301 


“everyday” one), this automatic reflex to unicontextualize is suspended, or 
challenged, or defeated. “Poetic language,” then, could be defined as language in 
which the norm is multiple contextualization.' 

The idea certainly would be in accordance with the common perception of 
poetry as a riddle, a conundrum, a rebus; it would also reflect the origins — 
religious, superstitious, prophetic — of poetic art. In antiquity, augury was 
based on a choice between two possible contexts, one “yes” and one “no”; think 
of the sybilline sentences from Delphi, dependent for their sense on the location 
of an unsupplied comma. Enormous multiplicity of contextualization is the 
“key” (which opens no door, of course) to such complex prophecies as the 
Apocalypse, or Nostradamus’s vast gibberish. Many intuitive definitions of 
poetry, which we know ultimately undefinable, can be reduced to this idea. So it 
is for poetry as “condensed” speech, Dichtung, wherein the word expands under 
one’s gaze, to suggest one, two, three, n, or co, meanings: the Ideal Poem being 
the one sound “signifying” the whole of the universe. So it is for Shelley’s 
notion of “infinite” poetry, in which “veil after veil might be withdrawn, and the 
final naked beauty never revealed.” Whether it is sufficient in itself to define 
poetic art, multiple contextualization is a generally ascertainable element of 
poetry, present in all periods of its existence in human culture, in various 
measure and more or less open to direct inspection. (It will immediately occur to 
the reader that certain poetics, prevailing in certain historical moments, have 
apparently intended to limit such contextual “excess,” while some other ages 
actually encouraged it to the utmost). 

Dante’s reaction to the frightening enigma of the inscription on Hell’s Gate 
is typical. Bewildering and threatening it certainly is — even if the Pilgrim 
knows (as the reader does not, until later) that the mysterious words are only the 
“writing on the wall”: “Maestro, il senso lor m’é duro” (Inf. 3: 12).2 Duro (as 
hard in English) expresses both a menacing prospect (hard “on me”: the last 
words of the inscription were “lasciate ogni speranza voi ch’entrate,” “give up all 
hope, you who set foot within,” v. 10) and difficulty of comprehension (the 
inscription is a network of complex puzzles). Dante the poet carefully arranged 
the context to maintain a balance between the determinants — thus transforming 
the bivalence of a word (duro) into a case-history of a soul oscillating between 
terror and confusion. 

The reader may have concluded that the idea here proposed goes without 
saying, that it is self-evident, and must have been a tool of Dante interpretation 
for centuries. I am sorry to report that it is not so. A vast (and, in American 
Dante scholarship, prevalent) segment of exegesis was and is concerned with 


1 “The specificity of literary language resides in the possibility of misreading and 
misinterpretation” (de Man 280). 
Dante is quoted from Petrocchi’s edition, La commedia secondo |’ antica vulgata. 


302 Tibor Wlassics 


eliminating one of the meanings in such passages: here, with reducing the 
Pilgrim’s complex state of mind to one emotion only. Very rarely Dante’s 
commentators admit a double possibility of reading: usually only when the 
ambivalent contextualization of a term is, as it were, pointed out by the author 
himself. Among the hypocrites in Hell the Pilgrim hears out the story of the 
two “Jolly Friars”; he is about to comment, but a new monstrous sight 
(Caiaphas, crucified) suddenly claims all his attention: “Io cominciai: ‘O frati, i 
vostri mali . . .’; / ma pit non dissi . . .” (23:109-10). The interrupted speech is 
too strong an invitation to resist the urge to complete it. Some commentators 
realize that Dante’s choice of the bivalent word (mali, “ills,” meaning both 
damage wrought in life and pains suffered in Hell) is intentional: the Pilgrim’s 
“liking” or “disliking” of the hypocrites is left in suspension and no amount of 
textual belaboring can decide the question — precisely because the poet arranged 
his text so as to defeat determination. 

The rare instances of exegetical appreciation of ambivalence include such 
Clearly bivalent (“subjective” and “objective” or active and passive meanings) 
words as mali and several terms of its semantic field: dolore, dolente, danno, etc. 
Hell is “la dolente ripa / che ’1 mal de l’universo tutto insacca” (Inf. 7:17-18: 
“the painful [=painful and “pain-full”] pit wherein / the ills [evil done and done 
to] of all the universe are pent”). Brunetto Latini with his squad “va piangendo i 
suoi etterni danni” (evil “committed” and “suffered”: both being “eternal,” with 
varied hues of meaning, Inf. 15:41-42). And when Jason “per dolor non par 
lagrime spanda” (Jnf. 15:48), commentators note the double interpretive outcome 
of per dolor and argue for one or the other signification; to no good purpose, I 
believe, since Dante has contextualized the expression to mean both an excess of 
pain “beyond” the solace of tears and a proud resistance to suffering characteristic 
of the ancient hero: “quanto aspetto reale ancor ritene,” exclaims Vergil, an 
expert in heroic stances. 

But dolor and its semantic field serves us here only as a handy example: one 
“family” of words out of thousands quite as suitable to exemplify multiple 
contextualization in the Comedy. Before abandoning it I will underscore two 
facts. First, there is no word whose sense is absolutely univocal. We know the 
exact meaning of “tweeddledee”: it is “tweeddledum” (but that is all there is to 
it). Hence the “evils” and “ills” of our quotes are only the spectacular signposts 
of an immense repository, identical with the OED. Secondly, many of Dante’s 
famous enigmas, croce e delizia (crux, precisely, and . . . footnotoriety) of 
dantisti especially of American denominations, are a product of double 
contextualization, and hence their “solution” should be the reasoned acceptance of 
their bivalence. 

Should be but it seldom is. Count Ugolino’s famous last line, “Poscia pit 
che ’1 dolor, poté il digiuno” (/nf. 33:75) divides Dante’s readership into two 
irreducible camps. Did Dante mean that the Count himself, having seen his 
children drop one by one, died not from the heartbreak of a father but from 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 303 


starvation? Or does the poet suggest that wretched Ugolino, overcome by the 
blindness of hunger, actually partook of the dead bodies of his children? Two 
interpreters of the episode, surely among Dante’s most sensitive readers of all 
times, Francesco De Sanctis and Benedetto Croce,° admitted uncertainty and 
suggested that Dante might have intentionally left the freedom of choice to the 
reader. 

Did Dante perversely delight in confusing his reader by packing his text 
with insoluble riddles? There is nothing sinister in the procedure. To eschew any 
such suggestion, I would rather avoid the fashionable term “strategy,” which 
presupposes an adversarial situation between author and reader. Paul de Man’s 
critique of “reading” is based on just such a perception: “it tells a rather sordid 
story in which the reader is manipulated and exploited by a callous author who . 
. . appears as an evil counselor, a tempter who fails to deliver the goods, and, 
above all, as a falsifier of truth (de Man 286). The reading here promoted is 
nothing of the sort, and de Man’s misreading of reading owes something to the 
occasional — rather enjoyable — flippancy of Fish’s argumentative discourse. In 
the hands of a great poet multiple contextualization becomes a potent tool: the 
very oscillation in the reader’s mind becomes an element of the text. In this 
sense we might understand the axiom of the “reading” theory according to which 
the text creates its reader and the reader in turn creates the text. To quote once 
again de Man, the critic who most successfully fused the best in Riffaterre’s 
approach with Stanley Fish’s theory: 


Complications arise, because the observing subject ‘3; no more constant than the 
observed, and each time the observer actually succeeds in interpreting his subject he 


changes it . . . But every change of the observed subject requires a subsequent change 
in the observer, and the oscillating process seems to be endless. 
(de Man 10) 


The very “endlessness” of the interpretive oscillation is part of, or one 
should rather say “background” to, the mimesis in the Ugolino story. Not a 
“sordid” story of cat-and-mouse play, but the last touch in projecting the psyche 
of the wretched Count, who even in Hell cannot “face” the last moments of his 
life on earth. What would the figure be without this mortal “embarrassment” of 
his last, laboriously veiled, words? I insist on the hermeneutic value of each 
instance of polysemia in Dante. “Il modo ancor m’offende,” says Francesca (Inf. 
5:102), and commentators for six-hundred years have been debating whether this 
means that the enchanting sinner still resents the injury done to her “bella 
persona” (a rather suggestive interpretation which, however, would reduce 
Francesca to a truly infernal flirt), or that her sudden death, depriving her of time 


3 The former in his Ugolino lectura, now in Saggi critici 42-43; the latter in La poesia di Dante 
18. 


304 Tibor Wlassics 


for repentance, relegated her to Hell (another suggestive reading which, again, is 
problematic: it would endow a dweller of hell, by definition unrepentant, with a 
posthumous regret, and, more importantly, would reduce this most concise 
storyteller to a word waster: what she says goes without saying). Each of the 
interpretations, by itself, seems to diminish the text, the character, and Dante. 
Together, in their oscillation in the mind of the poet, transmitted to and 
reproduced by the mind of the reader, they become a congenial mimesis of 
Francesca’s mind, wavering between the anxiety of saying too little or too 
much, between impossible regret of the soul and unrevealable regret of the body. 
“God’s greatest gift is decency of mind,” says Aeschylus. 

The problem-solving urge is congenital to our curious race. If you are like I 
am (and 90% of humanity, I hope, is), you’ll condescend to understand why I am 
on Sunday mornings, pencil in hand, deep at work on the puzzle page of the 
“Daily Progress” of Charlottesville, Va., toiling (I will add with a little 
embarrassment) even at the little picture puzzle meant for pre-school readers: 
those dots that you have to trace, producing, voila, a giraffe. The polysemia of 
an unfilled crossword puzzle is always a temptation. Dante is ever aware of this 
decoding instinct in his reader, and he puts it to use, on the very lowest level of 
authorial “strategy,” to push us on from line to line, from canto to canto. “Town 
near the river Po’s delta” (so at least in the 14th century): seven letters, starts 
with an R, ends with an A: what is it? “Siede la terra dove nata fui / su la marina 
dove ’1 Po discende” (/nf. 5:97-98). Dante constantly challenges the reader, by 
such crossword definitions (alas, he does not give the number of letters: if he did, 
we could halve the footnoting which invades two thirds of the page in all 
commented editions of the Comedy); he constantly queries the reader’s 
information on geography, history, literature, the arts and sciences. 

It is a dialogue the reader does not even realize he has been inveigled into. 
This gentle authorial prodding is indeed the surface function of multiple 
contextualization, preceding its all important subliminal function, that of 
mimesis. The former is unproblematic, a variant of the “rhetorical question” 
(although it does pose some exegetical problems when Dante conveniently 
“forgets” to provide a solution: a not infrequent trick — which would at once put 
out of business the crosswords writer). The latter, however, mimesis, poses a 
problem each of the thousands of times multiple contextualization occurs in 
Dante’s poem. We may easily conceive how the reader’s mental enacting, quasi 
“dancing out,” of Ugolino’s or Francesca’s deathly vacillation of mind is the 
screen onto which their individual stories will be advantageously projected. But 
the mimetic aspect is not always as clear. Brunetto Latini predicts Dante’s 
“future” misadventures, a prophecy in large part post-factum, with a small 
margin saved, perhaps, for wishful thinking. After exiling you, Florence will 
repent, Brunetto says in effect: “La tua fortuna tanto onor ti serba, / che l’una 
parte e l’altra avranno fame / di te” (Inf. 15:70-72). Is this “reward” an ironic 
one, and are both the “Whites” and the “Blacks” (or the Guelphs and the 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 305 


Ghibellines) to chase after Alighieri like hungry dogs? Certainly; avere fame (di), 
however, has also a positive meaning, reflecting a proud awareness, in Dante’s 
mind of his own worth: his enemies too will soon wish they had him on their 
side: they will desire him, they will “slaver” after him. The text when 
interrogated distributes its support equally between the two interpretations — and 
no wonder: Dante arranged it so. The mimesis inherent in the semantic 
oscillation (between poles that cannot now be as easily reconciled as in earlier 
examples) is of a subtle kind. This is a prophecy, reproducing (tongue-in-cheek 
— in a very serious sense though) the solemn gait of classical vaticination. “Ibis 
redibis non morieris in bello,” we recited by rote in high school: the comma 
before or after non determines the sense — just as any minimal semantic 
intervention of Alighieri would do in Brunetto’s augury. This, however, is a step 
the poet is careful not to take. 

The two meanings, irreconcilable and even antithetical, at times are not 
satisfactorily “justified” solely by the hermeneutical reasons so far given (textual 
condensation; puzzles as storytelling technique; the “education” of the reader 
through a “softening” of receptivity; mimetic value of the oscillation; etc.). At 
such times Dante seems to address two discrete audiences, carefully calibrating 
the context to the perceived intellectual level of each. The phenomenon is 
present in the Comedy in a number of stylistic devices, not necessarily 
involving ambiguity. For instance, “twofold addressing” explains some of 
Dante’s “double” analogies. When he compared the infernal causeways first to 
the famous Flemish sea dikes and then to the less known man-made 
embankments of the Brenta river, he very probably was distinguishing in his 
readership two levels of traveling experience. Some of his most celebrated cruces 
seem to be subject to the same explanation. So for the endlessly debated 
“disdain” of Guido, in the Pilgrim’s answer to Cavalcanti pére: 


“Da me stesso non vegno: 
colui ch’attende 14 per qui mi mena 
forse cui Guido vostro ebbe a disdegno.” 
(Inf. 10: 61-63) 


The dozen or so main “solutions” of this puzzle boil down to two candidates as 
referents of cui (“such as . . .”): Vergil, the choice of more literal-minded readers 
(from Boccaccio on; these include, strangely enough, Charles Singleton), and 
Beatrice, for the reader of the allegory (the choice of most contemporary 
commentators). 

Almost no exegete admits the possibility that Dante may have meant both 
(a notable exception is the authoritative view of Giorgio Petrocchi), although the 
careful balancing of the text (context) between the two outcomes is suggestive 
enough. The mimesis of the phenomenal world (which does not tolerate 
ambiguity and in which yes and no are neatly separable) is so skilful in the 


306 Tibor Wlassics 


Comedy as to deceive even the sophisticated reader into thinking that in this 
fictive world, too, there must be a (univocal) solution to every problem. It is a 
yearly renewed divertissement for the teacher to propose the problem of cui to 
his students in an advanced college seminar on Dante. There you see the 
problem-solver in each of us come to life to reargue the plurisecular argument, 
invariably settling for an “either” / “or,” with a combativeness that poetry 
otherwise seldom excites. (In the US the debate democratically comes down to 
majority rule, and the class, taking in earnest the instructor’s tongue-in-cheek 
invitation, actually “shows hands” for B or V; in Italy, so at least in the mid- 
70s, the student audience, more jaded as regards the electoral process, would 
rather nudge the cui question toward a critique of CIA interferences in 
Eurobusiness, etc.). 

When one of the “solutions” of an ambivalence is addressed to a specialized 
minority, it may remain altogether “hidden.” In presenting the horrors in the 
Schismatics’ Ditch, Dante comments on the difficulty of verbal mimesis. “Who 
ever could,” he rhetorically asks, “having at his disposition only the instrument 
of prose [and not the mimetic resources of Dante’s taumaturgic verse], express in 
full the bloody scene — even if the storyteller could, as in the ‘loose’ discourse 
of prose is sometimes permissible, go back on his words to underscore the 
gruesomeness of detail.” It is a testimonial to Dante’s faith in the powers of 


poetry: 


Chi poria mai pur con parole sciolte 
dicer del sangue e de le piaghe a pieno 
ch’ i’ ora vidi, per narrar pit volte? 
(Inf. 28:1-3) 


Since pur means in Dante both only and even, commentators “translate”: “Who 
could even in prose .. . ?” In this version Dante, addressing a vast majority of 
his audience (the non-poets), appears to regret his own choice of a medium for 
the Comedy: in short, one could tell the story so much better in prose. A rather 
lame complaint, isn’t it? But just test the text on any undergrad audience: the 
Evenists will have it — doesn’t everyone know in fact that prose is “easier” to 
write than verse? 

Two “legends” of Dante scholarship impede in particular a comprehension of 
multiple contextualization: the legend of “medieval Dante” and the legend of 
“crystal clear” Dante. The latter is the product of a didactic necessity: “everybody 
knows how to speak obscurely, but few how to speak clearly,” sentenced 
Galileo. But should the need for inspiring examples of clear writing, to be 
pointed out to Italian secondary school students, limit our reading of perhaps the 
most hermetic poet in any language? The legend of medieval Dante, on the other 
hand, should actually promote an understanding of his ubiquitous textual 
ambivalence we are dealing with, the Middle Ages being the age par excellence 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 307 


devoted to a “layered” understanding of all texts: think of the obsessive practice 
of allegorical interpretation. 

Years ago, examining some bivalent syntactic constructions in the Comedy, 
I compared them‘ to the classical figure of the apd koini, whereby one part of 
speech “oscillates” in its divided loyalty to two other parts of speech, modifying 
both. The example, I recall, was the Attic proverb: “he doisa pdnta kai 
komizetai tikhe,” “fortune the giver of all, all taketh,” “pdnta,” all, being 
“shared” by the two verbs, and conferring on the two actions a simultaneity 
which is the melancholy message of the ancient hexameter. One of the Dante’s 
passages I quoted comes from the report on the hellish Forest of Suicides: 


Non fronda verde ma di color fosco; 
non rami schietti, ma nodosi e ’nvolti; 
non pomi v’eran, ma stecchi con tosco. 

Non han si aspri sterpi né si folti 
quelle fiere selvagge che ’n odio hanno 
tra Cecina e Cometo i luoghi colti. 

Quivi le brutte Arpie lor nidi fanno, 
che cacciar de le Strofade i Troiani 
con tristo annunzio di futuro danno. 

Ali hanno late, e colli e visi umani, 
pié con artigli, e pennuto ’] gran ventre; 
fanno lamenti in su li alberi strani. 


(Inf. 13:4-15) 


Now strani, “strange,” is referrable to both the trees (alberi) and the shrieks 
(lamenti) of the Harpies. All commentators known to me show, by laborious 
reasoning, that Dante meant either one or the other. 

Dante of course meant both. Proof? The text. He wrote it — it’s as simple 
as that; and what is more, he was its first reader, a reader with an exceptional 
advantage: he did his reading with pen in hand, and had full power to limit that 
“strangeness” to the trees or the the shrieks by one stroke of his pen (I will not 
offer examples of how: let me entrust to my reader this easy textual sacrilege). 
Dante the reader surely had noticed (can we all agree on that much?) how the 
final word in this (and many a similarly construed) passage irradiates an 
additional quality (here optical and auditive “eeriness”) upon the whole spectral 
scene — and he approved the ambivalence by leaving the text as we have it. (I 
for one believe he actually arranged it that way: let the reader follow his or her 
own sensibility in the choice of expression). 

Raffaele Spongano took to task my analysis observing that it attributes to 
Dante a practice belonging to “the French symbolists.” I think Mallarmé was 


4 Auctor veniam rogat for including here, on editorial insistence, what the kind reader probably 
calls “self-referentiality” (polite polysyllabic for “puff”): I refer to Dante narratore 7-34. 


308 Tibor Wlassics 


mentioned: a sure example of ever-present planned multivalence. Hugo Friedrich 
taught us how Mallarmé induces his reader into calculated misreadings of his text 
whose “sense” (in a very limited sense, of course) is a fusion of the mistake and 
its “correction.” Such “double take” reading is alien to Dante, Spongano argued.° 
I disagree, of course; not only on account of Alighieri’s allegorical theory and 
practice, but on the basis of the clear awareness, in his fourteenth century- 
commentators, of ambivalence in his text. (Buti, for one, repeatedly points out 
“equivocation” [in his Commentario, ad loc.], which occurs “when the word is 
one but the meanings are multiple”). Even more importantly, classical 
Rhetoricae and medieval Artes dictaminis view textual ambiguity as an 
important stylistic device; let us quote, for one, Rhetorica ad Herennium, surely 
used by Dante: “ex ambiguo controversia nascitur cum scriptum [= context] duas 
aut plures sententias significat . . .” (1, xii, 20). The pseudo-Cicero refers here to 
legal oratory, and this limits his “advice”: “ambigua quemadmodum vitanda sunt 
quae obscuram reddunt orationem, item haec consequenda [= to be expressly 
sought for] quae conficiunt huius modi [i.e. by rendering it multivalent] 
significationem. Ea reperientur facile si noverimus et animum adverterimus 
verborum ancipites aut multiplices potestates” (IV, liii-liv, 67). 

“Nessuno scriverebbe versi se lo scopo della poesia fosse quello di farsi 
capire,” categorically proclaimed an expert in the field, Eugenio Montale. 
Ambiguity, whether theorized or not within the framework of the dominant artes 
poeticae of the day, has been a permanent feature of poetry in every age; it did 
come to the “surface” in Mallarmé’s epoch-making “layered” texts (as well as in 
Leopardi’s theory of the “vague” word; in Marino’s meraviglia; in Tasso’s 
studied equivocation; etc.), but it is a vast undercurrent already in Homer, nay, in 
pre-Homeric poetry (not to mention the poetic books of the Bible, fount and 
paragon of all “binary” reading). “The machinations of ambiguity are among the 
very roots of poetry,” William Empson says in his Seven Types of Ambiguity 
(3), a book written over fifty years ago but as contemporary today as poetic 
ambiguity itself. (Latter day theorists, as different as Harold Bloom and Stanley 
Fish, pay emphatic tribute to Empson’s insight: “Fortunately we have had 
Empson,” exclaims the former [Bloom 23]; “what Empson does, he does better 
than anyone else,” writes the latter [Fish 59]). But “univocalist” interpreters 
insist that “the critic’s duty is to establish the sense of a text.” When there are 
two readings, we should ascertain the “author’s intention.” Alas, that is a hard 
task, even if the author happens to be alive — and naive enough to guess at his 
own “meaning.” 

Authorial intention as a category of exegesis is notoriously at low ebb; 
current literary theory privileges the reader. Can we follow this penchant to its 
extreme consequences? The author, at the very least, must be admitted into his 


5 In editorial correspondence referring to my quoted “Ambivalenze dantesche,” first published ( 
mean, successfully concealed) in Spongano’s Studi e problemi di critica testuale. 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 309 


own readership. Did Dante read the Divine Comedy? He certainly did, both in the 
“directional,” left-to-right, sense (which makes the text the “object of a gradual 
discovery” in Michael Riffaterre’s stylistique [Essais 327]) and by the non- 
sequential “seesaw scanning” (“compelled by the very duality of signs,” to quote 
again Riffaterre: his Semiotics [166] this time), theorized by Paul de Man too, 
as an all important phase of “reading” (the “recapitulative perception” of the text, 
in The Resistance to Theory 12). The ambivalences we are dealing with should 
be conceived of, at least for argument’s sake, as having the sanction of that 
privileged reader, the author. “It seems most unlikely,” writes Empson, who was 
not at all timid in his almost exclusive favoring of those two protagonists, the 
text and the exegete, “that [the Poet] was less conscious of these alternatives 
than his commentators” (83). The assumption is: if he “left” them there, they are 
there. 

It remains to be discussed how far the reading of polysemia should be 
pursued by the exegete. What of the cases of “controlled pseudo-ambiguity” (de 
Man’s term, in Blindness and Insight 236, discussing Empson’s “types”)? I 
should explain. “Truly” polysemous is the word conte in Vergil’s admonishment 
to the Pilgrim (who is about to meet Farinata): “Le tue parole sien conte” (Inf. 
10:39). Dante’s usage allows three etymologies: cognite, “known” (conferring 
biblical solemnity on Vergil’s command); contate, “counted” (a reminder to the 
Pilgrim to be concise: very much in the Guide’s style), and comptae, “combed,” 
“fitting” (this too a very Vergilian tenet). According to the principles of reading 
(and interpreting) here advocated, the reader will not exercise his ingenuity to 
decide which of the three meanings Dante meant. The context, as the rather even 
distribution of the commentators into three “camps” shows, allows, or rather 
imposes, all three qualifications, defining, by the way, the very nature of the 
Pilgrim’s address to Farinata (and, indeed, of the Divine Comedy): 
appropriateness to the situation at hand, a grave and pensive andatura, and 
terseness of wording. 

Now to the “false” polysemia. In these cases, a “linear” reading at first 
encourages double attribution (as we have seen in the case of strani referred to the 
wood of the Suicides), but then the context limits the range of syntax. At the 
very outset of his poem Dante exclaims: 


Ahi quanto a dir qual era @ cosa dura 
esta selva selvaggia e aspra e forte 
che nel pensier rinova la paura! 

Tant’é amara che poco pit é morte; 
(Inf. 1:4-7) 


“Amara”: what is, precisely, “bitter”? The text allows three referents: paura, 
selva, and cosa dura, each in turn stressing an aspect that will be all-important in 
Dante’s story: finesse of psychological notation (here the note on 


310 Tibor Wlassics 


“psychosomatic” reaction); omnipresence of a subtext, allegorical or not (the 
selva selvaggia); and insistence on the “difficulty” of fixing transcendence on 
paper (cosa dura is only the first of a hundred or so such authorial 
“lamentations”). Bitterness, then, “invades” the exordium of the poem. However, 
let us read ahead: “ma per trattar del ben ch’i’ vi trovai. . . .” Vi can’t refer but to 
the wood; in retrospect, bitterness is “limited” to the experience of sin. 

Stanley Fish, by pushing his concept of “reading” to its extreme, strips the 
author of his “authorship,” as it were: 


in my account or reading . . . the temporary adoption of . . . inappropriate strategies 
is itself a response to the strategy of an author; and the resulting mistakes are part of 
the experience provided by that author’s language and therefore part of its meaning. 
(47) 


Should we throw pedagogic caution to the wind and follow Fish on this path to 
anarchy in the classroom? The critic insists: the “mistakes” will not be cancelled 
out: they have been experienced; they have existed in the mental life of the 
reader; they mean. However, I am relieved, and ready to agree with Fish, when, 
after observing that “one can analyze an effect without worrying about whether it 
was produced accidentally or on purpose,” he adds: “however, I always find 
myself worrying in just this way.” Well said; and that worry is indeed a sign that 
authorial intention cannot be done away with lightheartedly. I suggest that we 
readmit the author into . . . his own readership. As a corrective of Fish’s almost 
all-out radicalism in this respect, let us recall, again, Riffaterre’s stress on 
reading (rather than as a sequence) as “‘a seesaw scanning of the text...a 
continual recommencing, an indecisiveness resolved in one moment and lost the 
next.” In this sense (a non-linear or not-only-linear reading), the bitterness of 
Dante’s exordium will “belong” to the selva selvaggia, but, by virtue of the 
reader’s (remember Alighieri’s status too, as a privileged “reader”!) first 
“mistaken” assumptions, amara will remain a “taste” that affects for ever the 
whole infernal overture. 

Yes, but what if the “intrusion” into the reading is due, not to dethroned 
Intentio Auctoris, but to that eternal co-author of all human endeavor, history 
(or, more simply, time)? Let us distinguish two cases: variations in textual 
tradition and linguistic change. 

The first case, in my opinion, could (selectively) come under the governance 
of reading. Posit a fourteenth-century author, very well acquainted with, and 
puzzled for life (one speculates) by the vagaries of medieval script, who often had 
to correct, say, error to orror, or ira to ire, etc., in his precious reading of a 
codex: correct, I mean, arguing from the context. Imagine now this author 
proceeding to produce his own text, carefully hedged about by him to prevent 
any attempt at interpolation or falsification (the terzina form, etc).. How will he 
behave when faced by the task of fixing (say) ira or orror on the page? To avoid 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 311 


future, plurisecular, mishap owing to amanuenses’ varying habits, he can, first 
of all, avoid the word, and, second of all, if he does not avoid the word, he can 
unmistakably unicontextualize it. And now see what happens, when the Pilgrim, 
assaulted for the first time by infernal cacophony (/nf. 3:31), feels his skull 
constricted by the hoops of . . . error? horror? both? 

Both. Dante chose to leave the reader (in this case, the scribe) “free” — or, 
rather than that, committed to a double perception. The ira / ire case signals the 
limit, in my opinion, of a pluricontextualization, philologically still acceptable, 
of a dual outcome expected by the author in the course of the transmission of his 
text. (I admit that this must sound rather formidable, but the phenomenon to be 
described is hardly less complex). Crossing the bridge over the ditch of the 
serpents the Wayfarers overhear a speechlike noise from the dark depths, and 
Dante conjectures: “chi parlava ad ire/ira parea mosso” (Inf. 24:69). With a 
stroke of his pen Alighieri could have “nailed” the reader to one of the variants 
he certainly knew would spring up in the contemporary copying and recopying 
of his text. Both readings yield an eminently Dantesque sense: ira gives a 
typically Dantesque deduction of the “within” from the “without”; ire gives a 
typically Dantesque “optical” reading of an acoustic signal. Is it philologically 
sound to hypothesize such a risky authorial procedure (of purposely exposing 
one’s text to “misreading” by copyists) — and that in a text considered a miracle 
of precision? Another author whose words like Dante’s are supposed by many to 
have a marble finality, Proust, “accepted” in correcting his proofs dozens of 
printer’s “errors,” preferring to his own original script the occasional co- 
authorship of Chance. However, these cases I consider the very borderline of 
interpretable ambivalence in the Comedy; at times indeed I am not even sure on 
which side of the line some similar, unquoted, examples might best be situated. 

Fully beyond the line of philological acceptance I would place the other 
mentioned set of “historical contributions” to the text: those owing to linguistic 
change. A recent interpretation of the /nferno, trying to debunk the tiny 
undebunked remains of the Romantic reading, claims that in Farinata’s invitation 
to the Pilgrim, 


“O Tosco che per la citta del foco 
vivo ten vai cosi parlando onesto, 
piacciati di restare in questo loco.” 
(Inf. 10:22-24) 


there is a malign intent to persuade Dante to remain in Hell for good. Now, 
restare is a synonym of rimanere in modern Italian; in Dante’s usage it 
invariably means “to stop over,” “to stay awhile.” 

To conclude on a note of self-correction. In my second Dante book I 


6 Cassell 18; reviewed by me in Lectura Dantis: A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation. 


312 Tibor Wlassics 


suggested that a well-bicontextualized ambivalence existed in Dante’s use of the 
word snello (in modern Italian both “speedy” and “thin, slight, slim, slender”). I 
identified this in the description of the Centaurs (nf. 12:76, “Noi ci 
appressammo a quelle fiere isnelle”: they are horsemen both fleet on the hoof and 
elegantly “streamlined”); in the departure of the three Florentine Sodomites (Inf. 
16:86-87, “Indi rupper la rota, e a fuggirsi / ali sembiar le gambe loro isnelle”); 
and especially in the flight of the arrow, where syntax and optics wonderfully 
coincide: 


Corda non pinse mai da sé saetta 
che si corresse via per l’aere snella... 
(Inf. 8:13-14) 


It seemed to me that in the last two instances the very position of the word 
snello added to the “thinning” and “disappearing” of the spectacle. Umberto 
Bosco, however, pointed out to me that snello had no second meaning in the 
fourteenth century: in Dante it is, always and exclusively, “quick, fast, rapid.”” 

I admit that it took me years to mentally “block out” the image (so 
Dantesque, isn’t it?) superimposed on the text by jocose Time. It makes one 
wonder whether we could, with the most “radical” Fish, somehow “accept error” 
here too, as an element of reading. Could we not consider Dante and his co- 
author, History, “two in one and one in two” (/nf. 28:125, “due in uno e uno in 
due”), like Bertran de Born and his severed head — and like the 
pluricontextualized ambivalences of the Comedy? I think not. This is the point 
indeed where the readmission of the Author io the status of Privileged Reader 
becomes paramount. 


University of Virginia 


Works Cited 


Bloom, Harold. The Anxiety of Influence: A Theory of Poetry. New York: Oxford UP, 
1973: 

Bosco, Umberto. Tre letture dantesche. Roma: Edizioni dantesche, 1942. 

Buti, Francesco. Commentario sopra la Divina commedia di Dante Alighieri. 3 vols. 
Pisa: Giannini, 1858-62. 

Cassell, Anthony. Dante’s Fearful Art of Justice. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 1984. 

Croce, Benedetto. La poesia di Dante. Bari: Laterza, 1920. 

Dante, Alighieri. La commedia secondo l'antica vulgata. Ed. Giorgio Petrocchi. 4 


TAs explained in his /ectura of Inf. 12, originally in Tre letture dantesche, now in Getto 1:235. 


| 


Crux and Context in Dante’s Comedy 313 


vols. Milano: Mondadori, 1966-67. 
de Man, Paul. Blindness and Insight: Essays in the Rhetoric of Contemporary 
Criticism. Sec. ed. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1983. 
. The Resistance to Theory. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1986. 
De Sanctis, Francesco. Saggi critici. 3 vols. Bari: Laterza, 1952. 
Empson, William. Seven Types of Ambiguity. Sec. rev. ed. New York: New 
Directions, 1947. 
Fish, Stanley. [s there a Text in this Class? Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1980. 
Getto, Giovanni, ed. Letture dantesche. 3 vols. Firenze: Sansoni, 1964. 
Rhetorica ad Herennium. Ed. Harry Caplan. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1954. 
Riffaterre, Michael. Essais de stylistique structurale. Paris: Flammarion, 1971. 
. Semiotics of Poetry. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1978. 
Wlassics, Tibor. “Ambivalenze dantesche.” Studi e problemi di critica testuale 5 
(1972): 15-32. 
. Dante narratore: saggi sullo stile della Commedia. Firenze: Olschki, 1975. 
. Rev. of Dante’s Fearful Art of Justice, by Anthony Cassell. Lectura Dantis: 
A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 2 (Spring 1988): 104-6. 





Teodolinda Barolini 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell* 


Introduced by the complex transition of cantos 16 and 17, Inferno 18 constitutes 
an emphatic new beginning situated at the canticle’s midpoint, at its narrative 
mezzo del cammin. “Luogo é in inferno detto Malebolge” begins the canto, with 
a verse that is crisply informative, explicitly introductory, and patently devoted 
to differentiation:! this is a new place, a new locus. Following the descriptio loci 
heralded by the opening “Luogo é,” the narrator’s focus shifts to the travelers. In 
two apparently very simple tercets, he activates the poetics of the new, founded 


on the discreteness of questo luogo, this place as distinct from any other: 


In questo luogo, de la schiena scossi 
di Gerion, trovammoci; e ’] poeta 
tenne a sinistra, e io dietro mi mossi. 
A la man destra vidi nova pieta, 
novo tormento e novi frustatori, 

di che la prima bolgia era repleta. 
(Inf. 18.19-24) 


Besides the triple use of novo, echoing the double use at the beginning of canto 
6, we note the numerical precision of “prima bolgia,” which builds on the earlier 
“distinto in dieci valli” (Jnf. 18.9); numbers will be used throughout lower hell 
to convey the sense of a suffocatingly precise system of order. In this canto 
alone we find not only “prima bolgia” but also “prima valle” (98), and “argine 
secondo” (101); in canto 19 we find “‘terza bolgia” (6), “l’argine quarto” (40), and 
“dal quarto al quinto argine” (129). These numbers prepare us for the smaller and 
more numerous containers, the more frequent encounters with the new that will 
characterize lower hell; again, canto 18 sets the pace for this more intense 


* This essay first appeared, in Italian and in marginally shorter form, in Lettere italiane (1990). 
1 Kirkpatrick comments with respect to the opening of canto 18 that “the declaration “Luogo é 
in inferno detto Malebolge’ had indeed far more the appearance of a true beginning than the 
oblique and hesitant opening of Inferno I’ (237). 

2 On the descriptio loci of Inferno 18 and its Vergilian antecedents, see Sanguineti, chapter 1, 
and Barchiesi. Sanguineti’s book is notable for its ideological motivation as well as for its 
practical criticism; the author intends his “lettura narrativa dei canti di Malebolge” (xx) as a 
methodological challenge to Crocean emphasis on the Commedia’s “lyrics.” Although 
Sanguineti’s 13 chapters on each of Malebolge’s 13 cantos more often provide detailed 
individual canto readings than one over-arching lettura narrativa, his attempt contains insights 
into the poem’s narrative dimension. 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 315 


narrative rhythm by presenting us, uniquely, with two pouches, the first of 
which is further subdivided into two distinct groups of sinners, the panders and 
seducers. Finally, we note that canto 18’s proemial function, its enactment of a 
new beginning with almost /nferno 1 pretensions, is underscored by verse 21, 
which echoes in recombinatory fashion the first canto’s last verse: “Allor si 
mosse, e io li tenni dietro” has become “’! poeta / tenne a sinistra, e io dietro mi 
mossi.” Once more, then, as at the end of canto 1, the journey has begun. 
However, it has begun again in a post-Geryon world, as the careful insertion 
of “de la schiena scossi / di Gerion” into the new beginning’s preamble testifies. 
The cantos of Malebolge, in fact the cantos of all lower hell, since fraud governs 
both the eighth and the ninth circles, are written under the sign of Geryon: a 
representation of fraud that calls into question the very representational values 
used to figure it forth. Thus, on the one hand these cantos rely on the same kind 
of representational illusionism that was inaugurated by the writing on hell’s 
gate; the line “Luogo é in inferno detto Malebolge,” for instance, confers truth 
status on the locus it names by implying that it is so named by others — by 
whom, after all, is this place “called” Malebolge? When the poet speaks in his 
Own voice in verse 6 — “di cui suo loco dicerd l’ordigno” — his “dicerd” is 
made authoritative by the anonymous “detto” that precedes; he is telling us what 
is known, and therefore what is true. At the same time, however, that the truth 
status of his own representation continues to be maintained, Dante will use these 
cantos to question the basis of all human representation, to probe relentlessly the 
fraud inherent in language and indeed in all sign systems. In these cantos fraud is 
consistently treated as a semiotic sin, a sin in which sign systems must be 
breached in order for the fraudulent act to be committed. Canto 18, with its 
linguistically oriented seducers and flatterers, sets the stage for a meditation on 
representational falsehood that extends throughout Malebolge (a circle that 
culminates, let us not forget, with the falsifiers of words); this meditation 
generates both content — the types of sins Dante includes under the rubric of 
fraud, the concern to characterize these sins linguistically — and poetic form. 
From the stylistic perspective, these cantos run the gamut from the lowest of 
low styles to the highest of high; here too, canto 18 is paradigmatic, moving in 
its brief compass from vulgar black humor (“Ahi come facean lor levar le berze / 
a le prime percosse! gia nessuno / le seconde aspettava né le terze” 37-39) to the 
solemnity with which Vergil displays Jason (“Guarda quel grande che vene” 83) 
to the nastiness of the merda in which the flatterers are plunged. For Barchiesi, 
such transitions constitute the essence of canto 18; he suggests that the canto’s 
most singular aspect is its violent juxtapositioning of elevated language with 
realistic language, of the Latinate “Luogo @” with the plebeian neologism 


3 Lotman notes that for Dante the worst of sins is “un uso falso dei segni” (92). On the Inferno 
as a whole, see also Chiappelli. 


316 Teodolinda Barolini 


“Malebolge.”4 This insight can be extended to the cantos of Malebolge as a 
group, whose violent stylistic transitions provide an implicit commentary on the 
questions of genre and style that were opened up for the poem by the use of the 
term comedia in the Geryon episode. 

Transitions in style and register occur with singular frequency in 
Malebolge.* These marked and sudden changes in style signal an exploration of 
the bounds of representational decorum that is connected to the poet’s first 
formulation, in canto 16, of genre. His use of comedia in canto 16 will be 
answered, in canto 20, by a unique use of tragedia: alta tragedia is Inferno 20’s 
designation for the Aeneid. In my previous reading of the poem’s Vergilian 
narrative, I attempted to show that the running critique of Vergil that is found in 
the Inferno is also, necessarily, a critique of tragedia; the poem works to 
demonstrate that alta tragedia is inferior to — because less true than — bassa 
comedia. Comedia, the textuality that undertakes to represent such as Geryon, 
may appear to be a lie, but is always truth: it is a ver c’ ha faccia di menzogna,a 
mirum verum, a cosa incredibile e vera.© What I intend to focus on here is the 
stylistic correlative to the comedia’s truth claims, which I take to be its 
manifoldness; the ultimate point of lower hell’s dizzying array of register and 
style is that the comedia is a voracious genre, one which — because it tells the 
truth — is committed to embracing and representing all of reality. My concern is 
no longer to demonstrate the implicit contrast Dante establishes between 
comedia and tragedia, verita and menzogna; however, I am obliged to remind the 
reader that all formulations of what comedia is occur, in this poem, in tandem 
with what it is not. Thus, it is no accident that Malebolge contains a series of 
classical/contemporary couples; these couples serve to highlight the disjunction 
that is at the root of Dante’s meditation on genre and style, the disjunction 
between comedia and tragedia. 

Returning to canto 18, which again is paradigmatic for Malebolge as a 
whole, Sanguineti notes that the canto contains a modern and a classical figure 
in each of its two pouches; Barchiesi comments on the symmetry whereby the 


4 «Ip quanto alla forma, la parola fa si che il nostro verso proemiale proponga, con esemplare 
sinteticita, quello che costituira l’aspetto pid singolare dell’intero canto, vale a dire 
l’accostamento di linguaggio elevato e linguaggio violentemente realistico” (126). 

5 Dante’s Malebolgian poetics seem to savor Augustine’s recommendations in De doctrina 
christiana 4.22.51: “But no one should think that it is contrary to theory to mix these three 
manners; rather, speech should be varied with all types of style in so far as this may be done 
appropriately. For when one style is maintained too long, it loses the listener. When 
transitions are made from one to another, even though the speech is long, it proceeds more 
effectively” (158). The fourth book of De doctrina christiana is particularly concemed with the 
role of rhetoric in true discourse, a matter on which Dante focuses through his usage of comedia. 
6 In Dante's Poets, ch. 3, these formulae are discussed in the context of the meaning of comedia. 

The phrase ver c’ha faccia di menzogna is used to describe Geryon in /nferno 16, while cosa 

incredibile e vera belongs to Cacciaguida’s exposition on ancient Florence in Paradiso 16; mira 

vera refers to the marvel of the singing flute in Dante’s second Eclogue. 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 317 


pilgrim addresses both contemporaries, while Vergil takes it upon himself to 
describe both classical sinners.’ We could further note that the two 
classical/contemporary couples of Malebolge’s first canto (Venedico 
Caccianemico and Jason, Alessio Interminei and Thais) are matched by the two 
classical/contemporary couples of Malebolge’s last canto (Gianni Schicchi and 
Myrrha, Master Adam and Sinon). Bracketed by these sets of 
classical/contemporary figures, is the piéce de resistance, Ulysses and Guido da 
Montefeltro, where the alignment between Vergil and Ulysses on the one hand 
and Dante and Guido on the other is pronounced; Vergil feels that he should 
address the Greek hero, while the pilgrim may speak to his Italian counterpart. In 
this crucial central diptych the classical/contemporary coupling signals a stylistic 
disjunction on a grand scale, as we move from the heroic discourse of canto 26 
to the quotidian language of canto 27.8 The disjunction between cantos 26 and 27 
is programmatic, a signpost to Malebolgian poetics, and it is already implicit on 
a smaller scale in the similar disjunctions that make up the stylistic texture of 
Inferno 18. 

The classical/contemporary couples that punctuate Malebolge are emblems 
of the mixed style that is the essence of the “comedic” mode.? While Jason 
deceived Hypsipyle “with signs and ornate words” (“con segni e con parole ornate 
/ Isifile ingannd” 91-92) — a phrasing that draws attention to the semiotic 
nature of his sin — the pilgrim adopts a chiara favella that forces Venedico to 
reveal himself (‘ma sforzami la tua chiara favella” 53), and the poet’s language 
could not be further from the ornate as he describes Alessio’s head “di merda 
lordo” (116) and Thais’s “unghie merdose” (131). The connection between Vergil 
and Jason is established by the Latin poet’s own predilection for parola ornata, 
an aspect of his persona to which we were introduced by Beatrice in Inferno 2;'° 
in canto 18, then, changes in stylistic register work to associate classical culture 
(Jason, Vergil) with linguistic ornament and deceit, with the “flattery” of which 
Cato will accuse Vergil in Purgatorio 1.'1 It seems no accident that, within the 


7 See Sanguineti 14, and Barchiesi 190-92. The coupling of classical with contemporary figures 
is a feature of exemplary literature; see Delcomo, who writes, “L’irruzione dell’attualita nel 
repertorio esemplare, che gia segnava originalmente la predicazione e la letteratura dei 
Mendicanti, diventa il tratto pid caratteristico della Commedia” (6). 

8 On the linguistic shift between cantos 26 and 27, see my Dante's Poets 228-33; for the 
significance of classical/contemporary couples, which may also be read as fictional/real, see the 
reading of Sinon and Master Adam (233-38). 

9 I would like to remind the reader that I am not referring to what is funny, not even in the 
sophisticated dress of “play.” In my opinion, Dante’s use of the terms comedia and tragedia must 
be understood in the context of truth and falsehood. 

10 For the connection between Vergil and Jason, see Mazzotta, Dante, Poet of the Desert 158. 

11 Vergil’s parola ornata finds expression most often in his use of the captatio benevolentiae; 
Cato responds to Vergil’s captatio with the rebuke “non c’é mestier lusinghe” (Purg. 1.92). The 
four occurrences of lusinga / lusingar seem to outline a gradual calling into question of omate 
speech. Lusinga first appears in relation to fraud, in Inferno 11's résumé of Malebolge 


318 Teodolinda Barolini 


economy of canto 18, the poet’s language becomes most vulgar in the final 
sequence, as he treats those who are punished for their lusinghe (the very word 
Cato will so harshly throw at Vergil), after the encounter with classical parola 
ornata. Using low language and the type of harsh rhyme that in Inferno 32 he 
will explicitly request as a means of representing the pit of hell,!* Dante begins 
in canto 18 to clarify poetically the enigmatic word used for the first time at the 
end of canto 16, the word comedia: it is a genre capable of exploiting the lowest 
of styles. But the lesson in comedic style is an ongoing one; were we to think 
that its province is exclusively low, we would be mistaken, as canto 19 —a 
great outburst of comedic high style — demonstrates.!> Again, the point is the 
Stylistic discrepancy between the two cantos: from the relatively simple, 
unadorned, plain style of canto 18 to the rhetorical profusion of canto 19. The 
transition from a literal and rhetorically unelaborated style to a language of great 
metaphorical density finds its emblem in the transition from the literal “puttana” 
of 18.133, Thais, to the metaphorical “puttaneggiar coi regi” (19.108) of the 
church on behalf of the pimping popes. The back-to-back use of puttana and 
puttaneggiar (the former used only twice more, both times in Purgatorio 32 for 
the church, the latter a hapax), underscores the transition from literal to 
metaphorical whoring and thus the rhetorical differences between cantos: the 
straightforward narrative of 18 contrasts sharply with the grandiloquence of 19, a 
canto that contains three apostrophes, that indeed opens with the apostrophic 
trumpet blast directed at Simon Magus and his fellow prostituters of “le cose di 
Dio,”!4 


(“ipocresia, lusinghe e chi affattura” 58); it recurs in the pouch of the flatterers, juxtaposed to 
Jason’s parole ornate, in Alessio’s self-indictment (“Qua git m’hanno sommerso le lusinghe” 
18.125). The final two uses both point to the limits of captatio benevolentiae: the infernal 
perspective is expressed by Bocca’s “mal sai lusingar per questa lama!” (32.96), and the 
purgatorial by Cato’s “non c’é mestier lusinghe.” 

12 The use of rime aspre belongs mainly to the bolgia of the flatterers; starting from line 101, 

we find rhyme words like “s’incrocicchia,” “nicchia,” “scuffa,” “picchia,” “muffa,” “zuffa,” and 
“zucca.” These are noted by Barchiesi (198). Storey points also to the harsh rhymes at the 
beginning of canto 18, including -oscio, which he notes is “used only once by Dante” (31). 

13 Although Dante works to undercut the consistently high style associated with classical epic, 
his point is not that high style is always wrong but that a mixed style alone can capture all 
reality. The high style of canto 19 is, in any case, biblically rather than classically inspired; its 
rhetorical hallmarks will reappear in later political invectives, such as that of Purgatorio 6. 

Regarding “the violent oscillations in style marking, for example, /nferno XIX, XX, and XXI, 

which imitate the Bible, the classics, and the comico-realistici,” Barariski comments: “Dante 
seems to be suggesting that, yes, his poem is written in a ‘middle style,’ but that traditional 
restrictions on the scope of its form and content no longer bind it. The Comedy embodies a truly 
middle style: a mid-point at which every kind of expression and literary genre, and every subject 
can come together within a single structure” (“‘Significar per verba’” 12). 

14 Kirkpatrick characterizes the shift differently: “It is one of the most surprising features of the 
transition from Canto XVIII to Canto XIX that Dante should [have] exchanged the ugly triviality 
of the one for the scriptural simplicity of the other: ‘low’ language now becomes sermo 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 319 


I refer to a trumpet blast advisedly, since this is the metaphor the poet 
adopts for his attack on the simonists, for whom his trumpet must now sound: 
“or convien che per voi suoni la tromba, / pero che ne la terza bolgia state” (5- 
6). Calling his poetic discourse a trumpeting, Dante aligns his text with the 
“angelica tromba” (Inf. 6.95) that will sound on the Judgment Day, as later in 
the canto he will buttress his denunciation of the simonist popes by invoking 
St. John the Evangelist, for him the writer of the Apocalypse. The Apocalypse 
is Dante’s preferred source in canto 19, as it will be also in the cantos that 
narrate the procession and tableaux vivants of the earthly paradise; the pilgrim 
specifically cites St. John as his authority when he accuses the popes in 
language taken directly from the Apocalypse: “Di voi pastor s’accorse il 
Vangelista, / quando colei che siede sopra |’acque / puttaneggiar coi regi a lui fu 
vista” (Inf. 19.106-8). St. John too was a trumpeter; in Paradiso 26 Dante calls 
his Gospel “‘l’alto preconio che grida l’arcano / di qui 1a gill sovra ogne altro 
bando” (44-45), and in the Monarchia as well Dante refers to the “trumpet of the 
gospels” (“tuba evangelica”).!5 There is thus ample cause to associate the poet’s 
trumpeting with inspired art, the kind of art that a few verses further on will 
cause Dante to break into canto 19’s second apostrophe, addressed to God and 
regarding God’s supreme art, the art of justice: “O somma giustizia, quanta é 
l’arte / che mostri in cielo, in terra e nel mal mondo” (10-11). Comedia in this 
canto is thus shown to be crafted in the high style of biblical invective, replete 
with apostrophes, rhetorical questions, exclamations, biting sarcasm, and 
metaphoric density; it is, moreover, shown to be an art that is analogous to the 
evangelical proclamation, the art displayed (or the tuba played) by God. Canto 19 
therefore also contains the requisite signs of the poet’s “Ulyssean” anxiety, to 
wit a double defensive move that encompasses both narrative past and present: 
the narrator sets the record straight regarding the potentially sacriligious breaking 
of a baptismal font in the Florentine Baptistery, using his poetic authority to 
give the lie to all other recountings of the event (“e questo sia suggel 
ch’ogn’omo sganni” 21);!© he also prefaces the pilgrim’s outburst against 
Nicholas III with an authorial disclaimer marked by the Ulyssean word folle, “Io 


humilis” (255). The language of canto 19 seems to me less biblical sermo humilis than biblical 
grandiloquence. 

“Hanc veritatem etiam Gentiles ante tubam evangelicam cognoscebant” (Mon. 2.9.7). 
16 Sanguineti’s crusade against romantic psychologizing readings of the Commedia leads him 
to ridicule D’Ovidio’s suggestion that the autobiographical insert is connected to the 
sacrilegious aspect of canto 19 as a whole. Despite D’Ovidio’s heated phrasing, far too involved 
by today’s cool critical standards, he hits on the key point when he writes that this is a canto 
where the poet takes on “un peccato essenzialmente sacrilego, e non ci sarebbe mancato altro 
che egli medesimo non fosse del tutto libero dalla taccia di un sacrilegio!” (see Interpretazione di 
Malebolge 41 note). It is worth remembering that Sanguineti is quite anomalous among Italian 
dantists of the early 1960s, since he not only sustains an anti-Croce polemic, but also routinely 
critiques earlier Italian critics in favor of such as Spitzer and Singleton. 


320 Teodolinda Barolini 


non so s’i’ mi fu qui troppo folle” (88). As usual in the Commedia, such moves 
serve to defuse the poet’s anxieties about his enormous claims and thus allow 
him to be even more explicit; after the pilgrim has finished denouncing the 
pope, we learn that Vergil listened with pleasure to his true words: “‘lo suon de le 
parole vere espresse” (123).!7 

The poet’s words are parole vere because what he recounts was revealed to 
him, as the contents of the Book of Revelation were revealed to St. John, by 
whom the church’s whorish behavior was seen (“fu vista”); the passive voice 
stresses the prophet’s function as a recipient of divine revelation. The pilgrim’s 
similar posture is emphasized by his passive acceptance of revelation in canto 
19’s last verse: “Indi un altro vallon mi fu scoperto.” What is revealed to this 
man whose words have just been expressly defined as true is the pouch that 
contains those sinners who claimed falsely to be the recipients of divine 
revelation, lying prophets whose words were not true but false. Canto 20, the 
canto of the false prophets, thus follows a canto in which our poet’s identity as a 
true prophet has been validated, not least by canto 19’s own comedic — and in 
this instance also mordantly comic — version of true prophecy, to wit Nicholas 
III’s expectations regarding the eventual arrival to this pouch of the still living 
Boniface VIII. The issue of false prophecy will in canto 20 be viewed in a 
textual focus: the prophets we encounter are mainly classical figures from 
classical texts; the presentation of Manto occasions the poem’s most explicit 
revision of the Aeneid in the very canto where Vergil’s text is baptized alta 
tragedia.'* Canto 20’s textual focus is anticipated in canto 19, where Nicholas 
reacts to what he presumes to be the arrival of his successor by saying “Di 
parecchi anni mi menti lo scritto” (19.54), thus broaching the theme of lying 
texts versus truthful texts which is the main topic of canto 20. Canto 20’s 
insistence on the technical aspects of textual construction — its unique use of 
textual jargon such as “ventesimo canto / de la prima canzon” (2-3) and the term 
“tragedia” (113) — is also anticipated in canto 19, where we find “metro” and 
“note” framing the pilgrim’s great outburst (89; 118). Explicit textual self- 
consciousness of this sort was ushered into the poem by the Geryon episode, 
where first the poet writes of “le note / di questa comedia” (/nf. 16.127-28) and 
where first he overtly poses the question of his text’s credibility.!? The question 
of the Commedia’s truthfulness is dramatically reprised in canto 19, where 
Dante’s text is associated with that of the evangelist, and it is again the center of 


17 The only other words in the Commedia specifically labeled true are Beatrice’s (Dante's Poets 
280 note). 

18 | refer the reader to my lectura, “True and False See-ers in /nferno 20,” where Dante’s revision 
of the Aeneid is seen as investing not only the epics content but its style, which is parodied in 
the excursus on Mantova. 

19 The question was implicitly posed in the Pier della Vigna episode, where Dante secures the 
credibility of his text by dramatizing the pilgrim’s inability to believe Vergil’s. 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 321 


attention in canto 20, where Dante’s text is forcefully disassociated from the 


- classical texts which provide the pouch’s lying prophets. In canto 19 Dante 


insists on his own crediblity; with regard to the incident at the Baptistery, he 
instructs us to let his version be the “suggel ch’ogn’omo sganni” (21). In canto 
20 Vergil uses similar language to imply the fraudulence of his own version of 
the founding of Mantova in Aeneid 10; he tells us to “let no lie defraud the 
truth” (99) — in other words, to credit no version other than the one recounted in 
Inferno 20. Both these lapidary imperatives — “questo sia suggel ch’ogn’omo 
sganni” and “la verita nulla menzogna frodi” — stress the relation of language to 
fraud: language is a medium that can both deceive — frodare — and undeceive — 
sgannare. 

The relation of language to fraud is a central concern of the pouch of the 
barraters. Although the sin of graft is less overtly linguistic than flattery or 
prophecy, Dante takes care to characterize these sinners by provenance and by 
speech patterns: as the pimps were labeled Bolognese and Bologna was indicated 
by a linguistic periphrasis (“che tante lingue non son ora apprese / a dicer ‘sipa’ 
tra Savena e Reno” 18.60-61), so the grafters are characterized by linguistic 
traits, first as men of Lucca, where “no” becomes “yes” for money (“del no, per 
li denar, vi si fa ita” 21.42), and further as Sardinians, whose speech is laden 
with regionalisms and whose tongues never weary of talking of Sardinia (“‘e a dir 
di Sardigna / le lingue lor non si sentono stanche” 22.89-90). The unnamed 
Navarrese barrater (the unusual absence of a signifier for this character is in itself 
a way of drawing attention to the value of signs) adds to the climate of linguistic 
regionalism by boasting that he can bring Tuscans and Lombards out of the 
pitch for Dante to interrogate.”° The semiotic sin par excellence of this pouch, of 
course, is Malacoda’s “truthful” lie.2! This fraudulent use of linguistic signs 
spearheads a sequence that deals in particular depth with the issue of signs, as 
manifested by the diabolic signs registered at the end of canto 21: “ma prima 
avea ciascun la lingua stretta / coi denti, verso lor duca, per cenno; / ed elli avea 
del cul fatto trombetta” (137-39; italics mine). These cenni are picked up in the 
mock-epic opening of canto 22, where the military imagery that runs through 
the pouch of barratry (civic graft being a kind of war against the state) becomes a 
focused rehearsal of various signs;?? the significance of this passage for the 


20 Ciampolo, as he is called by commentators, seems to be reacting to Dante’s and Vergil’s 
accents; the speech habits of guide and pilgrim constitute another semiotic theme that will be 
developed in Malebolge. 

21 Malacoda’s lie in canto 21 is balanced by a further semiotic abuse in canto 22, where 
Ciampolo promises to summon his comrades by whistling, the sign that indicates the coast is 
clear (103-5). These abuses of sign systems by humans and devils are offset, ironically, by the 
behavior of animals: dolphins help sailors by signalling impending storms (“fanno segno / a’ 
marinar” 22.19-20). 

22 Sanguineti refers to the “amplificazione catalogica dei segnali” in the exordium of canto 22 
(121). Augustine refers to the trumpet as part of his discussion of signs in the opening chapters 


322 Teodolinda Barolini 


Commedia at large, for the poem’s sustained discourse on signs, is manifested — 
by its concluding evocation of a ship whose voyage is governed by signs from | 
earth and sky, including the sign — "stella" — that will greet us as we emerge 
from hell: 


Io vidi gia cavalier muover campo 


quando con trombe, e quando con campane, 
con tamburi e con cenni di castella, 

e con cose nostrali e con istrane; 

né gia con si diversa cennamella 

cavalier vidi muover né pedoni, 

né nave a segno di terra o di stella. 

(Inf. 22.1; 7-12; italics mine) 


The “signals from castles” — cenni di castella — recall the ominous signals 
passed between the demonic towers at the outset of Inferno 8;23 we also find the 
Commedia’s last use of tromba, following the poet’s evangelically attuned 
trumpet of canto 19 and Barbariccia’s anti-angelic bugle of canto 21. Again, the 
point seems to be that the voracious genre comedia encompasses all manner of 
semiotic activity; the discourse of realism requires both the angelic tromba and 
the demonic trombetta. 

At the beginning of the bolgia of the barraters we learn of the “divin’ arte” 
that makes the purposeful pitch in which the sinners stew ("tal, non per foco ma 
per divin’arte, / bollia 1a giuso una pegola spessa” Jnf. 21.17-18); in the same 
opening sequence, we learn that Dante’s art is similarly purposeful, that it 
records nothing but what is necessary: “Cosi di ponte in ponte, altro parlando / 
che la mia comedia cantar non cura” (/nf. 21.1-2). We note that comedia appears 
here for the last time and that it is inserted into a clause that functions as a 
subliminal garnerer of verisimilitude: the verses give life to the text by casually 
insisting on a life outside the text, an independent reality that the text does not 
choose to reveal to us. We note further the association of comedia with the 
divine art whose work it records,” an association that introduces a sequence 
notable for its stylistic plenitude, for its fearless veering from high to low, 
emblematized by the mock-epic — neither high nor low — exordium of canto 


of Book 2 of De doctrina christiana. 

23 The response from one tower to another is described with the phrase “render cenno” (Inf. 

8.5). 

24 The same association is pointedly achieved at the beginning of /nferno 14, where we are 

faced with divine art — “di giustizia orribil arte” — and with the human whose job it is to narrate 
it: “A ben manifestar le cose nove, / dico che” (6-8). The independent reality conferred by the 
first verses of canto 21 will further manifest itself; as Sanguineti points out, this episode is 
exceptional for the “libero giuoco vitale, quell’autonomia drammatica” (141) that will allow 
Dante and Vergil to be forgotten while Ciampolo and the devils take center stage. 


| 
| 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 323 


22. Pietro di Dante considered the exordium a way of making amends for the 


_ offensively low conclusion of the preceding canto;” instead, the passage draws 


attention to the purposefulness of that conclusion and to these cantos as a 
purposeful recital of the disparate elements that make up the mixed style.?° 
These cantos are in fact a manifesto for the mixed style; their precept of stylistic 
decorum is canto 22’s proverbial “ma ne la chiesa / coi santi, e in taverna coi 
ghiottoni” (/nf. 22.14-15). A striking example of the stylistic counterpoint 
mandated by the proverb is provided by the contrast between the high Latinate 
word ludo (“O tu che leggi, udirai nuovo ludo” 22.118) and its vernacular 
equivalent, the low buffa (“Irato Calcabrina de la buffa” 22.133) or beffa (“Questi 
per noi / sono scherniti con danno e con beffa” 23.13-14). All three terms are 
used to refer to the series of events in which Ciampolo tricks the devils into 
allowing him to jump back into the pitch, a scenario whose telling takes up the 
final third of canto 22. The tale told here is a low one, replete with animal 
imagery — a Boccaccian beffa but for the eschatological dimension that draws in 
the high “tragic” language: this is a nuovo ludo, a game in which there are no 
winners.”’ The beffa played by Ciampolo on his tormentors leads to the brawl 


25 He comments & propos the opening of canto 22 that the author “vult se excusare de turpi 
recitatione quam fecit supra in Capitolo precedenti in fine, per id quod scribit Socrates, dicens: 
“Que facere turpe est, ea nec dicere honestum puto’” (Biagi 1: 531). More perceptively, Jacopo 
della Lana writes of the end of canto 21: “Circa la quale locuzione si pd excusare 1’Autore a chi 
l’acusasse de parladura porca e villana si in questo logo commo eziamdeo in lo XVIII° Capitolo 
de Tayde, che la materia del logo lo constrenge, zoé 1’Inf., in lo quale € omme dexordinazione” 
(Biagi 1: 529). 

6 For De Robertis, the exordium is marked by “epicita.” On the episode’s stylistic registers, 
see Spitzer, Russo, and, most recently, Picone, who reads cantos 21-22 against the backdrop of 
“comic” Romance cultural modalities, as embodied by the jongleurs and by texts such as the 
Roman de la Rose and the Fiore. For the “camevalizzazione del canto XXI,” see Camporesi; I 
disagree, however, with Camporesi’s suggestion that the ludic mode enters the /nferno against 
Dante’s will (“E l’infemo-camevale della tradizione subalterna a sforzare la penna dantesca” 
26). Rather, it enters as part of the narrative variety hymned by Tommaseo: “Sembra quasi che, 
dopo sfoggiata nel XX° Canto erudizione profana, e nel XIX° dottrina sacra e poetico sdegno, in 
questi due voglia riposare la propria mente e de’ lettori con imagini che ben s’addicono al titolo 
del Poema. All’aridita del II° Canto abbiamo cosi veduta succedere la bellezza del III®; e alle 
enumerazioni del IV®° la grande poesia del seguente; e alla disputa sulla Fortuna il furor 
dell’Argenti, e a questo la venuta dell’Angelo e le scene del Farinata e del Cavalcanti; e dopo la 
scolastica precisione del Canto XI° e le enumerazioni del XII°, il Canto dei suicidi; e dopo la 
descrizione de’ fiumi d’Inf., la scena con Brunetto e coi tre Fiorentini; e innanzi alla tromba che 
suona pe’ simoniaci, la faceta rappresentazione di Venedico, d’Alessio, di Taide. Varieta 
mirabile se pensata; se inavvertita, pid mirabile ancora” (Biagi 1: 529). 

27 Boccaccio may have had this episode in mind when he composed Decameron 4.2, the story of 
frate Alberto and madonna Lisetta: the friar’s leap to safety into the Grand Canal and away from 
Lisetta’s irate brothers seems modelled on Ciampolo’s leap into the pitch. To support this 
reading, I would point out that 4.2 is Boccaccio’s Venetian story, and that the bolgia of the 
barraters begins with the simile of the Venetian arsenal; most importantly, 4.2 is an anomalous 
story for the Decameron, in that friar Alberto’s wit does not ultimately serve to save him. Like 


324 Teodolinda Barolini 


between devils at the end of 22, wherein the cooks are cooked; this segment | 
constitutes a rather straightforward novella-like recounting of what are hardly © 
“high” events. However, the opening of canto 23 will retrospectively complicate 
and intellectualize the apparently simple ending of canto 22 by comparing the 
devils’ brawl to a text. 

The “presente rissa,” the current brawl, is interpreted by the pilgrim in such 
a way as to sustain the remarkable semiotic density of these cantos; his — 
uneasiness regarding the humiliated devils causes him to think of the story of the © 
frog and the mouse from Aesop’s Fables: 


Volt’era in su la favola d’Isopo 

lo mio pensier per la presente rissa, 
dov’el parld de la rana e del topo; 

ché pit non si pareggia “mo” e “‘issa" 
che 1’un con I’altro fa, se ben s’accoppia 
principio e fine con la mente fissa. 

(Inf. 23.4-9) 


The implicit parallel between the tale told by the Commedia and the fable that 
glosses it sustains the identification between Dante’s text and the low style, a 
style that does not eschew cooks, animals, or brawls, that is no more afraid to 
humble itself than are the Franciscans to whom the two travelers are compared at 
the outset of canto 23: “Taciti, soli, sanza compagnia / n’andavam I’un dinanzi e 
l’altro dopo, / come frati minor vanno per via” (23.1-3).78 Indeed, the vulgar 
rissa to which the poet refers in 23.5 has been recounted unashamedly and at 
length. It is interesting to note that the only other usage of rissa is the verbal 
form adopted by Vergil in response to what he considers the pilgrim’s excessive 
interest in the piato or quarrel between Sinon and maestro Adamo: “Or pur mira, 
/ che per poco che teco non mi risso!” (30.131-32). So Vergil elicits the 
pilgrim’s shame for his interest in watching a rissa, but the poet shows no 
shame at having narrated a similar rissa in canto 22; rather he situates his 
representation within the humble morality of the Aesopic tradition. This passage 
therefore supports my previous reading of canto 30, in which I sustained that 
Vergil was wrong to reprimand the pilgrim for confronting all the reality that 


Ciampolo, Alberto is playing in a no-win game, a nuovo ludo. Note that, with respect to a 
sinner, nuovo has assumed an inverted hellish significance; it refers to the incapacity to move 
forward, to ever be “new.” Similar usages are the “color novo” and “novelle spalle” attained by 
the thieves during their dead-ended metamorphoses (25.119, 139). By contrast, when referring 
to the pilgrim, the adjective conserves its positive valence, implying his capacity for rebirth 
and forward movement; see /nf. 23.71-72. 

28 Kirkpatrick refers to “the ‘humble’ speech of the fable” (279). A further intertextual 
complication is the echo of Cavalcanti’s “e vanno soli, senza compagnia, / e son pien di paura” 
(“Io non pensava che lo cor giammai” 51-52). 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 325 


hell has to offer; if he does not look and listen, how will he later recount??? Also 
significant as emblems of the low style are the humble words signifying “now" 
— the moment of conversion, of understanding — that represent the two terms 
of the comparison: mo is used throughout the Commedia, while issa is aligned 
first with Aesop’s fable, secondly with Guido da Montefeltro’s deflation of 
Vergil’s exalted heroic language, and finally with Bonagiunta’s tribute to a 
transcendentally plain style, the sweet new style that will ultimately lead to the 
new style par excellence, the comedia.*® 

For all its implications regarding the value of the low style, the parallel 
between the presente rissa narrated at the end of canto 22 and the fable of the frog 
and the mouse does not generate textual clarity. Let us reconstruct the sequence 
of events. Ciampolo proposes to whistle up some fellow grafters, requesting that 
the devils withdraw from the edge of the bank where they can be seen; when the 
devils comply, urged on by Alichino, Ciampolo dives back into the pitch, 
prompting Alichino to dive in after him, to no avail. Calcabrina, angered at 
Ciampolo’s escape, follows Alichino, not to help him but to attack him; they 
fight, and at canto’s end are embroiled in the pitch. These events are declared as 
similar as mo is to issa to those recounted in a fable about a mouse who asks a 
frog for help in crossing a river; tying the mouse to his leg with a string, the 
frog sets out and, at mid-stream, begins to dive, intending to kill the mouse. The 
mouse resists; a kite flying by seizes the mouse and, because of the string, is 
rewarded with the malicious frog as well. The most common interpretation of 
this passage views Alichino as the mouse, Calcabrina as the frog who should 
have come to his aid, and the pitch as the kite who triumphs over both. More 
recently, scholars have begun to focus on a second level of meaning, suggesting 
a proleptic analogy between the fable and the pursuit that is about to occur, 
whereby Dante is the mouse, Vergil is an unwitting frog leading the mouse into 
danger, and the Malebranche are the kite. What interests me here, however, is not 
the correct interpretation of the passage, but the fact that its interpretation has 
traditionally proved so arduous. Establishing the equivalences between the two 
sets of signs — or, indeed, three sets, if we add the story of Dante, Vergil, and 
the devils — has resulted in as many interpretations as there are ways of 
combining the variables — signs — Dante has given us. Thus, in addition to 
the most popular reading mentioned above, the exegetical record as summarized 
by Hollander (“Virgil and Dante as Mind-Readers”) includes the following 


29 «Far from being wrong, the pilgrim’s wish to listen is right, for his is the comedic desire to 
confront evil and to bear witness to all of reality, including Hell” (Dante’s Poets 238). Yowell 
draws attention to the importance of Master Adam’s exhortation to look and listen in “‘Guardate 
e attendete.’” 

Guido uses istra, a variant of issa: “‘O tu a cu’ io drizzo / la voce e che parlavi mo lombardo, / 
dicendo ‘Istra ten va, pid non t’adizzo’” (27.19-21). Bonagiunta uses issa to signal his 
conversion to understanding: “‘O frate, issa vegg’io’, diss’elli, ‘il nodo / che ’1 Notaro e 
Guittone e me ritenne / di qua dal dolce stil novo ch’i’ odo!’” (Purg. 24.55-57). 


326 Teodolinda Barolini 


combinations: Ciampolo as mouse, Alichino as frog, Calcabrina as kite; 
Alichino as frog, Calcabrina as kite; Ciampolo as frog, devils as mouse; 
Alichino as mouse, Calcabrina as frog, Barbariccia as kite; Dante and Vergil as 
mouse, devils as frog, with the sometime addition of Ciampolo as kite; 
Ciampolo as frog at beginning, Calcabrina as frog at end; Alichino and Dante as 
mouse, Calcabrina and Vergil as frog, devils twice as kite; Ciampolo and Dante 
as mouse, Alichino and Vergil as frog, Calcabrina and devils as kite. 
Undoubtedly, some of these equivalences are more plausible than others; 
nonetheless, it is significant that Dante has planted a semiotic terrain fertile 
enough for all the them — even the most far-fetched — to spring up. In other 
words, the historical lack of critical consensus regarding the application of the 
fable to the events of the poem is part of Dante’s point, which is the ambiguity 
— the Geryonesque fraudulence — of all signs, all representation. Applying one 
set of signs (the text of the fable) to another (the text of the poem) results not in 
clarity but in confusion. And, in fact, the two signs — mo and issa — whose 
likeness is declared the basis of the comparison between the larger sets of signs, 
are themselves irreducibly different.*! 

The opening sequence of canto 23 is notable also for the narrative suspense 
created vis-a-vis the devils’ pursuit; although from a theological perspective the 
travelers would seem to be invulnerable, protected by divine warrant, from a 
diegetic perspective it is important that the poet be able to deflect the narrative 
from the potential tedium of an entirely preordained story line. A first instance of 
such authorial intervention occurs in the sequence at the gates of Dis, where 
Dante succeeds in insinuating concern about the outcome of events into his 
story, most dramatically by way of Vergil’s partially expressed doubt as he 
awaits the arrival of the heavenly messenger: “‘Pur a noi converra vincer la 
punga’, / comincid el, ‘se non. . .’” (9.7-8). The anomalous ellipsis with which 
Vergil interrupts himself creates an atmosphere of negative suspense, which 
balances the positive suspense created by the confidence with which he had 
asserted the messo’s imminent arrival at the end of the preceding canto: “e gia di 
qua da lei discende I’erta” (8.128). The manipulation of narrative time to create 
suspense — literally the suspension of events in order to generate uncertainty as 
to their outcome — is signalled, in canto 8, by the poet’s use of gid.*? In 
Inferno 23 we witness an accelerated use of the same technique: “Gid mi sentia 
tutti arricciar li peli / de la paura” (19) is the verse that begins the build-up of 


31 Dante’s understanding of mo and issa could be described in the terms Bara tiski uses for the “I” 
of Paradiso 26, i.e. as “an avant la lettre instance of neo-Saussurean ‘arbitrariness of the 
signifier’” (“Dante’s Biblical Linguistics” 126). 

32 The most striking use of gid to manipulate narrative time is found in the poem’s final verses, 
where its use in “ma gia volgeva il mio disio e ‘l velle” helps create the illusion of all time 
conflated into an eternal present. Sanguineti insightfully refers to Dante’s gid as a “‘iam’ 
narrativo,” and notes its frequent use in canto openings (72 note and 257). 


| 
| 
: 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 327 


narrative suspense; the pilgrim then alerts Vergil as to his fear of the 
Malebranche, saying “‘Noi li avem gid dietro; / io li ’magino si, che gid li 
sento’” (23-24; italics mine). As soon as Vergil has suggested a way for them to 
flee “l’imaginata caccia” (33), the narrator cuts in with another gid: “Gia non 
compié di tal consiglio rendere, / ch’io li vidi venir con I’ali tese” (34-35). Here 
gia must do what the narrator, constrained by temporal order, cannot; the adverb 
insinuates simultaneity, gives us the impression that the devils are upon the 
travelers before Vergil has finished speaking (while of course, in actual fact, the 
narrator has been obliged to register all of Vergil’s words, and only then can pass 
on to the pursuers). Throughout the episode there is a tension between, on the 
one hand, temporal adverbs that denote urgency and immediacy (not only gid but 
tostamente [22], tosto [27], pur mo [28], subito [37], si tosto [46], a pena [52]) 
and, on the other, the word imaginare, which relegates the devils to the pilgrim’s 
overheated imagination (“‘io li ’magino si,’” “imaginata caccia”). 

This tension mirrors the fundamental ambivalence of the sequence, brought 
about by the conflict between theological and narrative principles: Can the 
pilgrim be harmed? Do the devils constitute a real danger? Dante manipulates his 
Narrative in such a way as to suggest that they do, while at the same time 
covering himself theologically: the episode’s conclusion proclaims the total 
impotence of the demons outside of their own pouch, but the poet never clarifies 
whether in fact they could have harmed him while he was within it. The poet 
tells us that the pilgrim’s arrival in the sixth pouch removes all cause for fear: 


Bieta 52 ma non [i era sospetto: 
ché l’alta provedenza che lor volle 
porre ministri de la fossa quinta, 
poder di partirs’ indi a tutti tolle. 
(Inf. 23.54-57) 


But by telling us so emphatically that there is no reason to fear in the sixth 
bolgia, the poet if anything implies that there was cause for sospetto while in 
the fifth; he at any rate does nothing to defuse the illusion of the presence of 
danger within the fifth pouch. The illusion of the presence of danger in hell is 
akin to the illusion of the presence of sin in purgatory, as dramatized by the 
arrival of the serpent in the valley of princes. Like the devils’ pursuit, the 
serpent’s threat constitutes a narrative sleight of hand, serving as a way of 
creating tension and generating suspense in what would otherwise risk being a 
flat textual experience. All the souls in purgatory, including all the souls in 
antepurgatory and all the souls in the valley, are saved. They are no longer 
subject to temptation by sin, but only to the pain of remembering past 
temptations and past succumbings. The pain of remembrance is ritualized by 
means of the recurrent arrival of the serpent into their valley, their ultimate 
resistance by the defending angels who drive it out again. Had Dante been 


328 Teodolinda Barolini 


willing — or able! — to narrate the daily repetitive arrivals and departures of the 
serpent, its ritualized aspect would gain in focus and its dramatic impact would 
lessen. As it is, however, the pressure is on us to find a way to accommodate the 
apparently contradictory realities of temptation and salvation, to hold these 
different and competing truths simultaneously in our minds, savoring Dante’s art 
of gradatio, rather than to yield to the simplistic assumption that the souls in the 
valley are in fact being tempted. Like the devils, the serpent demonstrates 
Dante’s willingness to take steps to counter his overdetermined plot, although 
by so doing he blurs the sharp moral contours of his narrative.*3 

Between the Aesop’s fable analogy and the imaginata caccia of the devils, 
canto 23’s opening sequence deals with both semantic and structural ambiguities. 
The extended simile of the villanello that opens canto 24 hearkens back to the 
ambiguity of meaning generated by the comparison of the fable to the rissa, mo 
to issa. To describe the pilgrim’s dismay at Vergil’s anger and subsequent 
reassurance when his guide resumes his normal demeanor, Dante introduces the 
simile in which the peasant is first dismayed by what he thinks is snow and then 
reasssured by the discovery that the snow is dew: 


In quella parte del giovanetto anno 

che ’] sole i crin sotto 1’Aquario tempra 
e gia le notti al mezzo di sen vanno, 
quando la brina in su la terra assempra 
l’imagine di sua sorella bianca, 

ma poco dura a la sua penna tempra, 

lo villanello a cui la roba manca, 

si leva, e guarda, e vede la campagna 
biancheg giar tutta; ond’ei si batte 1’anca, 
ritorna in casa, e qua e 1a si lagna, 

come ’] tapin che non sa che si faccia; 
poi riede, e la speranza ringavagna, 
veggendo ’] mondo aver cangiata faccia 
in poco d’ora, e prende suo vincastro 

e fuor le pecorelle a pascer caccia. 

(Inf. 24.1-15) 


To the most obvious interpretation, whereby Dante is the stricken peasant and 
Vergil is the countryside, first a cause for consternation and then benign, at least 


33 Russo notes the existence of “momenti, reali sul piano dell’intreccio narrativo, di timore, 
debolezza, negligenza, smarrimento, stanchezza, impedimento, che spesso (con congrua 
rarefazione di frequenza dall’/nferno al Paradiso) mettono in forse o in crisi il procedere 

oltremondano del personaggio, creando di volta in volta nel lettore effetti di tensione narrativa 
atti a suscitare reazioni di ‘sorpresa’, curiosita, attenzione” (/I romanzo teologico 29). For 

Dante’s use of the figure of Vergil as a prime agent against overdetermined textuality, see my 
“Q: Does Dante Hope for Vergil’s Salvation?”. 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 329 


one other set of equivalences can be added, whereby Vergil is the peasant (lied to 
by the frost as Vergil is by Malacoda) and Dante is the sheep, frightened by his 
protector’s demeanor and then “led out to pasture” by his sweet look.*4 The 
possibility of more than one interpretation serves again to dramatize the shifting 
and hence ultimately deceptive nature of language, further reinforced by the use 
of rime equivoche (tempra/tempra, faccia/faccia), whereby identical sounds 
possess different meanings. Moreover, although this simile presents us with less 
sheer multivalence than the Aesop’s fable analogy, it begins to explore the 
implications of semiotic failure in a way that the earlier passage does not, by 
raising the larger issue of representation through its use of artistic/mimetic 
language. The peasant mistakenly believes the frost to be snow because the frost 
has imitated the snow; borrowing from the lexicon of mimesis, the poet tells us 
that the frost “assempra / l’imagine di sua sorella bianca.” Attempting to 
represent snow, the frost appropriates the mode of art, and it fails, for like all art 
— all human representation — it is nondurable, subject to time: “poco dura a la 
sua penna tempra.” As compared to Purgatorio 10, where art is assimilated to 
nature and becomes real, infallible, here nature is assimilated to art, becoming 
fallible, corruptible, subject to time.*> From a concern with the shifting values 
of signs, Dante’s meditation broadens to engage the constraints of human 
representation. 

The villanello simile, which has been criticized for its erudition and 
preciosity, also serves to mark the transition from the generally lower novelistic 
style that characterizes cantos 21-23 to the higher classically inspired style that 
characterizes cantos 24-25. In the pouch of the thieves the poet dramatizes 
metamorphosis that is rebirth, change, and forward motion — the wellsprings of 
this poem — by depicting its infernal variant: metamorphosis that is not 
change, not rebirth, not forward motion. Here we find souls eternally subject to a 
grotesque copulation in which men become serpents or fuse with serpents to 
form an ungodly union of the two, only to revert and repeat the same process 
over and over again. To represent these exchanges Dante forges some of the most 
graphically and obscenely realistic language in the poem:*6 


Co’ pié di mezzo li avvinse la pancia 


34 See Musa’s notes to this canto, 202. 
35 Ferrante notes that “Normally, we think of art imitating nature (cf. Inf. XI, 97-105), but here 
nature seems to imitate art, using its tools just long enough to deceive its audience” (87). The 
semiotic meditation of lower hell will offer another example of nature as an imperfect artist in 
Inferno 31, where she is congratulated for having left off the art of making giants: “Natura certo, 
quando lascid l’arte / di si fatti animali, assai fé bene / per torre tali essecutori a Marte” (49-51). 
For the mimetic problematic in Purg. 10, see my “Re-presenting What God Presented.” 

6 Almansi glosses this episode’s “stupenda turpitudine” (41), noting, with respect to the 
following passage, that “L’adesione, ovviamente, non @ geometrica o matematica, bensi 
squisitamente sessuale” (66). 


330 Teodolinda Barolini 


e con li anterior le braccia prese; 

poi li addentd e l’uno e 1’ altra guancia; 
li diretani a le cosce distese, 

e miseli la coda tra ’mbedue 

e dietro per le ren su la ritese. 

(Inf. 25.52-57) 


At the same time he endows the contrapasso with full classical regalia, explicitly 
relating his metamorphoses to the classical epics that are his models, boasting of 
his superiority to Lucan and Ovid. A particularly aggravated stylistic hybridity 
comes into focus in these cantos: not a sustained high style, nor a sustained low 
style, but a hybrid that could be considered the stylistic correlative of the 
metamorphoses of canto 25.37 The language that describes those metamorphoses 
aptly renders the hybrid style: we could think in terms of a loss of stylistic 
identity, and call it a fusion of two forms that results in an unclassifiable 
perversion, so that, as with the monster created in the first metamorphosis, “due 
e nessun |’imagine perversa / parea” (25.77-78); or we could think of the way the 
two styles contaminate each other, so that they end up strangely mirrored, 
exchanging their natures as in the second metamorphosis, where “amendue le 
forme / a cambiar lor matera fosser pronte” (25.101-102). From Vergil’s 
eloquently classicized exhortation on fame and the Pharsalian catalogue of exotic 
reptiles to the linguistic and semiotic vulgarity of Vanni Fucci, the mulo who 
hurls his obscene gesture at God (but who is also capable of grand prophetic 
oratory), these cantos achieve a peculiar synthesis, a new breed of style that can 
imitate God’s horrid making, the obscene sculpting that redistributes matter 
according to perverse notions of genre and form. If, as the poet claims, his pen at 
times puts things together confusedly (‘‘e qui mi scusi / la novita se fior la penna 
abborra” 25.143-44), it is because he is called upon to represent confusion; the 
hybrids he must shape call forth a hybrid art that is indeed a novitd. 

Canto 24 is the seventh — central — canto of Malebolge’s thirteen; it 
initiates a series of four cantos that are central to the series as a whole. The fact 
that canto 24 marks a narrative new beginning is signalled by the pilgrim’s 
response to his guide’s exhortation; his “Va, ch’i’ son forte e ardito” (60) echoes 
Vergil’s earlier injunction, uttered on the threshold of Malebolge as the travelers 
prepare to mount Geryon, “Or sie forte e ardito. / Omai si scende per si fatte 
scale” (17.81-82). The second of these verses is also picked up in canto 24, 
where Vergil reminds his charge that “‘Piti lunga scala convien che si saglia’” 
(24.55); the following verse, “non basta da costoro esser partito” (56), cogently 


37 Frankel reads the simile as written in “two distinct styles, one highly literary and 
rhetorically ornate, the other humble like an Evangelical parable” (92). From this perspective, 
one could see the simile as initiating the hybrid style of cantos 24-25. Kirkpatrick notes “the 
incongruity between the grandiloquence of the simile and the relative simplicity of the subject 
to which it refers” (303) and refers to the “consciously ‘vernacular’ idiom of Canto XXV” (308). 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 331 


states the incessant imperative of the new: it is not enough to have left the 
hypocrites behind, for the essence of the travelers’ forward motion is to be 
“nuovi / di compagnia ad ogne mover d’anca” (23.71-72). The central cluster that 
the new beginning of canto 24 initiates includes the central 
classical/contemporary couple of Malebolge, Ulysses and Guido. Since 
Malebolge’s pairings of classical with contemporary figures serve, we can now 
see, to articulate the hybrid style at the level of content, cantos 26 and 27 may 
be said to recapitulate cantos 24 and 25 in radically different form. What cantos 
24-25 accomplish as a unit, by way of their remarkably homogeneous stylistic 
heterogeneity, cantos 26 and 27 achieve dialectically, playing off each other 
stylistically as the two protagonists play off each other historically. The 
protagonists are the vehicles by which all stylistic concerns are conveyed in 
these cantos, which are as psychologically dense as the preceding cantos are 
psychologically shallow. In fact, cantos 26 and 27 are linked not only because 
both represent the same pouch, but because they represent in a similar way that 
is anomalous in Malebolge: these are the only cantos of the thirteen where 
human dramas are fleshed out and where there are overriding personalities with 
which we become emotionally involved. The fact that these two episodes form a 
package, occurring in tandem, confers upon them an extraordinary weight within 
the narrative economy of Malebolge. Of the two, canto 26 is pivotal (nor is it 
surprising that it is the ninth — central — canto of the seventeen that make up 
the second half of the Inferno): for if on the one hand its high style will be 
unmasked by the vernacular mode of its successor, on the other its high style 
constitutes a genuine achievement, is — like the hero to whom it belongs — 
truly and consistently “great,” limited only and precisely by knowing no 
limitations, by its greatness. Here there is no mixture: nothing is picciolo, 
everything is alto; in comparison to canto 25’s flashy fireworks, the rhetoric of 
canto 26 is austere, sublimely simple. The opening apostrophe to Florence 
carries over from the oratorical flourishes and virtuoso displays of the preceding 
bolgia; as the canto progresses the narrative voice takes on more and more the 
note of dispassionate passion that will characterize its hero, that indeed makes 
him a hero, until finally the voice flattens out, assumes the divine flatness of 
God’s voice, like the flat surface of the sea that will submerge the speaker, 
pressing down his high ambitions. The anti-oratorical high style that culminates 
at the end of canto 26 is perhaps the most telling index of the poet’s 
commitment to the canto’s protagonist, upon whom he endows at least the 
cadences of authentic grandeur. 

For all their disparity, cantos 26 and 27 present a united front because they 
are so different from the cantos that bracket them; canto 28 is in fact very similar 
to 25, psychologically shallow and visually dazzling. Rhetorically too, it signals 
its flashiness from the outset, starting off with a rhetorical question (unusual 
enough as an opening gambit) that highlights the narrator and his art: “Chi poria 
mai pur con parole sciolte / dicer del sangue e de le piaghe a pieno / ch’i’ ora 


332 Teodolinda Barolini 


vidi, per narrar pit! volte?” (28.1-3). There follows the quintessentially dantesque 
strategic move of the disclaimer; the limits of human speech and memory are 
such that any tongue that attempted this narration (narrar in verse 3 is the third 
and last use of this verb in Inferno) would surely fail: “Ogne lingua per certo 
verria meno / per lo nostro sermone e per la mente” (4-5). And yet the poet 
narrates, and his narration is notably literary. We now encounter the lengthy 
accumulation of Romans, Anjevins, and other mutilated combatants who have 
fallen on the battlefields of southern Italy; if they were all assembled and each 
demonstrated his wounds, “d’aequar sarebbe nulla / il modo de la nona bolgia 
sozzo” (20-21). Again we note the text’s self-consciousness regarding its 
representational mission; its task is to equal in its textual mode the foul mode 
adopted by infernal reality, which is labeled as though it too were a genre or 
style, a “foul style.” The suggestive label modo sozzo could be seen as another 
way of describing the special hybridity that characterizes Malebolgian poetics; as 
in the pouch of the thieves, here we find a foully realistic matter wedded to 
elevated rhetoric, conjoined in a style whose hallmark is its ability to encompass 
within a twenty-verse span references both to Livy and to the “tristo sacco / che 
merda fa di quel che si trangugia” (26-27). 

Cantos 25 and 28 are also similar — and typical of a post-Geryon infernal 
poetics — in their insistence on the truth of their fantastic representations. As in 
canto 25 we find the poet intervening to address the reader (“Se tu se’ or, lettore, 
a creder lento / cid ch’io dird, non sara maraviglia, / ché io che ’1 vidi, a pena il 
mi consento” 25.46-48), so too in canto 28 the following emphatic intervention 
precedes the arrival of Bertran de Bom: “Jo vidi certo, ed ancor par ch’io ’1 
veggia, / un busto sanza capo” (28.118-19). Here the application of the “Geryon 
principle” is further strengthened by the use of the present tense with the adverb 
ancora carrying the full weight of the poet’s visionary authority.7® Moreover, a 
variation in the Geryon strategy is introduced; whereas in canto 16 Geryon was a 
fantastic truth (a ver c’ha faccia di menzogna, a mirum verum, a cosa incredibile 
e vera) to be assimilated by the pilgrim, now the roles are reversed. Now the 
pilgrim becomes the source of wonder to the souls; he causes the maraviglia in 
them that Geryon caused for him (“s’arrestaron nel fosso a riguardarmi / per 
maraviglia” 28.53-54). Here Vergil takes on the role of the poet, insisting on the 
truth of what he has just recounted, namely, the pilgrim’s remarkable itinerary: 
“e quest’é ver com’ io ti parlo” (51). Vergil is akin to the poet, the pilgrim to 
the unbelievable truth, the ver c’ha faccia di menzogna, that the poet narrates, 
and the sinners are akin to us, the readers who must believe. Dante thus tropes 
the already enormous self-consciousness of the Geryon episode with an — if 


38 By “Geryon principle” I refer to the strategy, inaugurated with the arrival of Geryon, whereby 
Dante weds the least verisimilar elements of his poem to his boldest claims to be a teller of 
truth. For further discussion of this strategy as developed in Inferno 16, see my “Arachne, 
Argus, and St. John.” 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 333 


possible — even greater self-consciousness that covers its traces by remaining 
entirely within the fiction, at the same time that it subliminally affects us by 
dramatizing our response, assigning us hidden roles within his text. 

The hybrid style reaches its apogee in the cantos devoted to the falsifiers, 
whose grotesque pathologies are the backdrop for a narrative art that encompasses 
Cavalcantian laments that pierce like arrows, homely similes of pots and pigs, a 
disgusting captatio benevolentiae based on descaling oneself like a fish, erudite 
Ovidian reminiscences, biblical echoes, and the vulgar brawl between Sinon and 
maestro Adamo. The juxtaposition of the crude verb leccar to a precious 
periphrasis for water creates the verse “e per leccar lo specchio di Narcisso” 
(30.128), singled out by Battaglia Ricci as emblematic of the poetics that govern 
these cantos.?? Most important, however, is the way the last pouch brings to a 
head the eighth circle’s theme of semiotic and representational fraudulence; 
grouping together alchemists, impersonators, counterfeiters, and liars under the 
general rubric of “falsador” (29.57), Dante comments on misrepresentation, 
imitation for false purposes, the perils of mimesis. These concerns come 
particularly close to the surface in the encounter with the alchemists: 


“Vero @ ch’i’ dissi lui, parlando a gioco: 
‘T’ mi saprei levar per ]’aere a volo’; 

e quei, ch’avea vaghezza e senno poco, 
volle ch’i’ li mostrassi l’arte; e solo 
perch’io nol feci Dedalo, mi fece 

ardere a tal che l’avea per figliuolo. 

(Inf. 29.112-17) 


Griffolino here raises the specter of a Ulyssean art: the arte that he was supposed 
to teach Albero of Siena, the art of rising through the air in flight, the art of 
being Daedalus. Dante is referring to a consummate mimesis that can transgress 
the boundaries between art and nature, permitting men to do what they were not 
endowed by nature to do: to fly, as Vergil puts it of Daedalus, on “the rowing of 
his wings” (“remigium alarum”), as Dante’s Ulysses is able to fly “on the wings 
of his oars.”“° To be Daedalus is, according to the Ovidian account, to be able to 


39 She writes of the “imprevedibile alleanza tra registri stilistici tradizionalmente antitetici” 
and of a “discorso letterario di provenienza ora petrosa ora stilnovistica, ora giocoso-realistica 
ora biblica, ora virgiliana ora dottrinaria” (28-29). Kirkpatrick points out that “the play of 
language between the poles of rhetorical and mythological elevation (note ‘Dedalo’ at 116) and 
banter, gossip and anecdote is characteristic of Dante’s procedure throughout the Malebolge” 
(382). Sanguineti too discusses Malebolge’s last two cantos in these terms, noting the 
“modulazioni di narrato al tutto imprevedibili” (322) of canto 29, and characterizing canto 30 as 
a supreme example of dantesque “politonalita” (337). 

40 Shankland points out that Dante’s “dei remi facemmo ali” is “actually a reversal of the 
Virgilian tag remigium alarum, that is ‘delle ali remi,’ originally applied to the sure flights of 
Mercury and Daedalus in Aeneid 1.301 and 6.10” (30). The image recurs in Ovid’s account of 


334 Teodolinda Barolini 


set your mind upon unknown arts and change the laws of nature (“ignotas 
animum dimittit in artes / naturamque novat’), to create by imitation wings that 
look and work like real birds’ wings (“ut veras imitetur aves”), to possess fatal 
arts (‘“damnosas . . . artes”) that enable one to be taken for a god (“credidit esse 
deos”), and that one ends by cursing (“devovitque suas artes”). The fact that 
these transgressive arts are mimetic is emphasized by the second alchemist, 
Capocchio, who reminds the pilgrim how good an ape he was of nature — 
“com’io fui di natura buona scimia” (29.139) — thus essentially furnishing us 
with a definition of mimesis.‘ But if Dante here condemns the falsifiers’ 
mimesis as a misrepresentation, he simultaneously insists on the exemption of 
his own mimesis, whose unique status is reaffirmed in this canto by alignment 
with infallible justice, which alone is responsible for punishing the sinners 
registered here, in this text: “infallibil giustizia / punisce i falsador che qui 
registra” (29.56-57).43 Once more Dante has confronted the problem of his 
realism, of his Daedalian pretensions, demonstrating his awareness of the 
Ulyssean dimension of his project, only to reconfirm his warrant to practice such 
arts legitimately. 

Canto 31 is less dramatic than expository, a canto of transition (from the 
eighth to the ninth circle) and anticipation (of Lucifer, named for the first time in 
31.143), which foregrounds the Commedia’s ideology of pride; pride is 
essentially a rebellion, and hence a transgression, a trapassar del segno as in the 


Icarus’s fall: the boy’s wings melt and he beats his naked arms to no avail, “remigioque carens” 
(“lacking oarage” Metam. 8.228). Thus, the image that Dante adopts as his chief emblem for 
Ulysses is associated in Vergil and Ovid with both Icarus and Daedalus, setting up the 
Commedia’s twofold analogy: as a frightened flyer, the pilgrim is compared to Icarus; as an 
artist who completes his flight, Dante is analogous to Daedalus, who arrived at Cumae. 
41 The above verses are, in order of citation, Metamorphoses 8.188-189, 195, 215, 220, 234. 
42 See Curtius, “The Ape as Metaphor.” The metaphor is still current, as witnessed by the title 
Art, the Ape of Nature (Barasch and Sandler); its Neoplatonic resonance is discussed by 
Mazzotta, “Theologia Ludens,” esp. 232. Curtius does not include the passage in the Convivio 
in which Dante denies that parrots speak as men or that apes act as men; their representation is 
not real, because not guided by reason: “Onde é da sapere che solamente |’uomo intra li animali 
parla, e ha reggimenti e atti che si dicono razionali, perd che solo elli ha in sé ragione. E se 
alcuno volesse dire contra, dicendo che alcuno uccello parli, si come pare di certi, massimamente 
de la gazza e del pappagallo, e che alcuna bestia fa atti o vero reggimenti, si come pare de la 
scimia e d’alcuno altro, rispondo che non é vero che parlino né che abbiano reggimenti, perd 
che non hanno ragione, da la quale queste cose convegnono procedere; né é in loro lo principio 
di queste operazioni, né conoscono che sia cid, né intendono per quello alcuna cosa significare, 
ma solo quello che veggiono e odono ripresentare” (3.7.8-9). Unlike apes, the falsifiers possess 
reason, and are therefore responsible for their imitations. In the context of poetic imitation, it 
is interesting to note that the Commedia was accused of being a “bella simia de’ poeti”; see 
Gorni, 137. 

3 | follow Hollander’s suggestion that the adverb qui in “punisce i falsador che qui registra” 
refers to the text of the Commedia. Hollander also notes that the alchemists are “perversely 
reminiscent of the poet’s role of fabricator” (“Dante’s ‘Book of the Dead’” 34). 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 335 


case of Ephialtes: “Questo superbo volle esser esperto / di sua potenza contra ’] 
sommo Giove” (31.91-92).*4 Not insignificantly, in light of the semiotic 
meditation that we have been tracing, pride and the losses that it procures here 
find a linguistic focus, vis-a-vis Nimrod’s prideful construction of the tower of 
Babel, because of which “pur un linguaggio nel mondo non susa” (78). Nimrod’s 
transgression, his desire to be as “high” as God (note the opposition of his “alto 
corno” [12] and the giant’s “alta guerra” [119] to the “santa gesta” [17] of 
Charlemagne),* results in the linguistic fall that afflicts mankind in the form of 
difference, lack of sameness, loss of “una medesima lingua” (1).4° Moreover, 
failure in this realm is necessarily communicable; Nimrod’s incomprehensible 
babbling threatens the travelers with incomprehensibility, as Vergil suggests: 
“Lascianlo stare e non parliamo a voto; / ché cosi é a lui ciascun linguaggio / 
come ’1 suo ad altrui, ch’a nullo @ noto” (79-81). The phrase parlare a voto 
indicates the insurpassable gulf, the empty space between res and signum that is 
part of man’s fallen condition. As is usual for Dante, acknowledgement of radical 
representational inadequacy reinforces his dedication to overcome such lacks, to 
be di natura buona scimia, to find the language that will eliminate difference, 
traversing the space between what the De vulgari eloquentia calls the rational and 
the sensible aspects of language, i.e. the sense and the sound, the signified and 
signifier, “si che dal fatto il dir non sia diverso” (32.12).47 Achieving a language 
that is indivisible from reality, that accomplishes the goal of “discriver fondo a 
tutto l’universo,” is the task, “impresa,” which the poet explicitly sets himself 


44 Ephialtes’ desire to be esperto recalls Ulysses’ ardor to become “del mondo esperto” and his 
subsequent call for “l’esperienza, / di retro al sol, del mondo sanza gente” (Inf. 26.98, 116-17). 
The Ulyssean stamp imprinted on the sin of pride in /nf. 31 will be confirmed in Purg. 12, where 
the examples of pride rehearse the same transgressive configuration: Lucifer, the giants, 
including Nimrod, and — as stand-in for Ulysses — Arachne. 

45 Kirkpatrick notes that Roland’s trumpet blast “cannot fail — after a sequence dominated by 
images of the Apocalypse — to call to mind the trumpet of the Last Judgement” (393); at the 
same time he considers canto 31 “‘comic in type” (392). Such heterogeneity characterizes the 
narrative style of lower hell; for this reason Kirkpatrick can claim both that “The Apocalypse is 
never nearer than in the last two bolge, where the two most spectacular horsemen of the 
Apocalypse — War and Pestilence — are allowed free rein” (365), and that in canto 29 
“triviality reaches its climax” (382). 

46 The canto’s first three words can thus be taken, out of context, to announce its theme. On 
Nimrod, see Barariski, “Dantes Biblical Linguistics” 129-32. 

47 ‘The idea of traversing is present in the De vulgari eloquentia, where Dante discusses the dual 

nature of language in terms of mankind's need to traverse the distance between the rational and 
the sensible, using the verb pertransire: “Quare, si tantum rationale esset, pertransire non 

posset; si tantum sensuale, nec a ratione accipere nec in rationem deponere potuisset” (1.3.2). 
One could look at the Commedia as a project that on the one hand seeks to eliminate the need for 
passage between the sensible sound (signifier) and its rational meaning (signified), by making 
them indivisible, and on the other is aware of the impossibility of a task whose consummation 
would make us like angels. In this sense, the Commedia is, like the tower of Babel, an “ovra 

inconsummabile” (Par. 26.125). 


336 Teodolinda Barolini 


in the great exordium that marks the last of hell’s divisions, almost its last new 
beginning, indeed the beginning of its end: 


S’io avessi le rime aspre e chiocce, 
come si converrebbe al tristo buco 

sovra *] qual pontan tutte |’altre rocce, 

io premerei di mio concetto il suco 
pil pienamente; ma perch’io non |’abbo, 
non sanza tema a dicer mi conduco; 

ché non é impresa da pigliare a gabbo 
discriver fondo a tutto l’universo, 

né da lingua che chiami mamma o babbo. 
Ma quelle donne aiutino il mio verso 
ch’aiutaro Anfione a chiuder Tebe, 

si che dal fatto il dir non sia diverso. 
(32.1-12) 


This great cascade of metapoetic language celebrates the fundamental principle of 
dantesque stylistic decorum: language must not differ from reality. What is 
stylistically conveniens*® is what best fits the reality being represented, si che 
dal fatto il dir non sia diverso. Accordingly, we have reached a “loco onde parlare 
é duro” (32.14), where language must be as unflinching as that which it 
describes.*? 


48 The use of convenire in 32.2 echoes the infernal decomm of the previous canto, which 
dictated that Nimrod speak gibberish since he is one “cui non si convenia pid dolci salmi” 
(31.69). 

Dante had long striven for what Contini calls “la conversione del contenuto nella forma” 
(165): in the verses “Cosi nel mio parlar voglio esser aspro / com’é ne li atti questa bella petra,” 
we see an earlier version of /nferno 32’s dir and fatto. In the same canzone the poet tells us that 
the weight that submerges him “é tal che non potrebbe adequar rima” (21). Dante most likely had 
his earlier experiment with hard speech in mind as he composed Jnferno 32: the canzone’s last 
stanza begins “S’io avessi le belle trecce prese,” a verse that will be echoed in “S’io avessi le 
rime aspre e chiocce.” Moreover, in canto 32 the optative hair-pulling of the canzone becomes 
“reality” when the pilgrim pulls the hair of Bocca degli Abati. Where I see the attempt to forge 
hard language as a deliberate representational choice, Kirkpatrick sees in these echoes of the 
rime petrose confirmation of his thesis regarding the /nferno as an ever more immoral text (410- 
411). If in canto 21 the author of the Commedia involves himself “in a piece of narrative 
chicanery” (276) when he invents a broken bridge, and if the sequence of barratry as a whole 
puts at risk “the literary integrity of the Commedia itself” (268), by the time we reach Branca 
Doria at the end of canto 33 Dante is composing poetry of which he “might have been ashamed” 
(432). The stylistic heterogeneity of lower hell thus constitutes a moral deviation on the part of 
the poet, rather than a representation of a moral deviation on the parts of the sinners: “The 
desire for free and simple utterance was the heartfelt motive of his earlier poetry; in writing a 
narrative as many-voiced as the /nferno, the poet has put in jeopardy, or even risked betraying, 
the origin and end of that authentic inspiration” (432). This reading demonstrates how 
Kirkpatrick’s interest in the poem’s narrative properties is skewed by the moral lens through 
which he views formal concems; his interest in “the ethical act of writing” (435) leads him to 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 337 


The narrator is nearing the end of the first leg of his journey. His desire to 
make his dir coincide with the fatto hearkens back to the journey’s beginning, 
when he voiced his concern that “molte volte al fatto il dir vien meno” (4.147; 
italics mine). As this part of the narrative journey reaches its conclusion, it 
recapitulates and mirrors itself, as though the glassy ice of Cocytus provided a 
mirror for the self-scrutiny of poet as well as pilgrim. Thus, a figure within the 
representation, Bocca degli Abati, figures forth the representation itself, 
mirroring the poet’s representational techniques; to the pilgrim who has cast 
himself as truth-teller, saying “io porterd di te vere novelle” (32.111), Bocca 
replies by appropriating the Commedia’s most fundamental strategy, that of 
saying “I saw": “‘Io vidi’, potrai dir, ‘quel da Duera / 1a dove i peccatori stanno 
freschi’” (32.116-17). He — a character within a fiction that maintains that its 
protagonist indeed saw what he says he saw — tells the protagonist what to say 
he saw, with the result that once again Dante tropes one of his authenticating 
devices; either he does this by drawing attention to them as outrageously 
inauthentic (in the case of Geryon), or he buries them within the fiction, so that 
we are manipulated by them without knowing they are there. Although on the 
one hand a technique of this sort may be said to demonstrate authorial self- 
consciousness, it more formidably demonstrates the author’s ability to play the 
textual mirror-game to the advantage of his fiction. A supreme instance of such 
textual specularity is found at the end of /nferno 33, in the pilgrim’s encounter 
with frate Alberigo, who explains that the souls of Tolomea are, uniquely, sent 
to hell while their bodies are still on earth, where they are possessed by devils. 
Dante is here troping his master fiction: instead of “living” dead people, we now 
must contend with the idea of dead living people. As the outlines of the fiction 
become harder to hold onto, we succumb to it more readily, especially when the 
text reproduces our relation to it within itself, as occurs in the ensuing dialogue 
between the pilgrim and Alberigo: it seems that Branca Doria, a Genoese 
nobleman condemned to the ninth circle for the murder of his father-in-law, 
Michele Zanche (a Sardinian whom Dante has placed among the barraters), is in 
fact dead. The pilgrim is incredulous; Alberigo must be lying: ““Io credo’, diss’io 
lui, ‘che tu m’inganni; / ché Branca Doria non mori unquanche, / e mangia e bee 
e dorme e veste panni” (33.139-41). So the pilgrim is now in the reader’s 
position, faced with an unbelievable truth, a ver c’ha faccia di menzogna (as 
earlier, in canto 28’s version of this mirror-game, the sinners played the reader’s 
role). How does Alberigo — the creature in the fiction — persuade the pilgrim 
to believe him? By appealing to “reality,” namely the fiction to which he 
belongs. His reply is one of the most remarkable intratextual moments within 
the Commedia, as the text buttresses the text, the fiction supports the credibility 


confuse the text’s content with its form. Within Dante’s hall of mirrors, Kirkpatrick has taken 
an extra tum: rather than merely theologizing what has been represented, as Dante works to 
have us do, he theologizes the act of representation itself. 


338 Teodolinda Barolini 


of the fiction: ““Nel fosso su’, diss’el, ‘de’ Malebranche, / 14 dove bolle la tenace 
pece, / non era ancora giunto Michel Zanche, / che questi lascid il diavolo in sua 
vece / nel corpo suo’” (33.142-46). With these references to the text of the 
Inferno — to the Malebranche and the boiling pitch of the bolgia of the barraters 
— the pilgrim is convinced; and the poet, who has mirrored and thereby mounted 
a sneak attack on the reader’s reluctance to believe, concludes the canto by 
stating as simple fact what he learned from Alberigo: in this place he found — 
"trovai” (155) — a spirit whose soul was in Cocytus, while his body was on 
earth.°° 

In between these concentrated rehearsals of the poem’s poetics as a ver c’ ha 
faccia di menzogna is the Inferno’s last extended narrative tour de force, 
Ugolino’s refashioning of the “bestial segno” by which he is first characterized at 
the end of canto 32 — his gnawing on Ruggieri’s skull — into the more ornate 
and seductive segno of his oration in canto 33. Ugolino’s consciousness of 
telling a story, the extreme narrative cunning by which he hopes to elicit the 
pilgrim’s sympathy, have been amply documented in recent years.*! For our 
present purposes, we should note that the self-consciousness of the episode 
encompasses an authorial self-scrutiny as well: Ugolino’s narrative artistry after 
all includes the recounting of a dreamscape very like that of Inferno 1, in which 
allegorical wolves and hounds also figure and signify. Moreover, the latent self- 
reflexive component of canto 33 is potentially more explosive than, for instance, 
the self-reflexive component of Inferno 5, which invests the poet’s lyric past 
rather than his narrative present. If the prophetic dream is a narrative device that 
Ugolino can exploit, then surely it is a narrative device that Dante can exploit as 
well;>2 if Ugolino is too good a story-teller, then so too is the teller of the 
Commedia. Thus it is that the poet asserts his own narrative authority over 
Ugolino’s with extraordinary force and aggressivity, issuing the ferocious 


50 Now that the fiction has been accepted as reality, reality is revealed to be a fiction: “e in 
corpo par vivo ancor di sopra” (Inf. 33.157). Dante’s strategy here is sufficiently scandalous to 
have provoked a reaction; there is a tradition according to which Branca (who seems to have 
been still alive as late as 1325) took revenge on the poet by having him beaten (see Papanti 
151-53). Moreover, the poet’s strategy is as outrageous theologically as it is textually, since 
his invention deprives these souls of the opportunity to repent of their sin. Kirkpatrick 
comments: “In terms of thought, the passage is not only heretical, but also trivialises the two 
most essential principles of Dante’s Christianity: first, his understanding of the union of body 
and soul as both a sacred and a logical necessity; and, secondly, his belief in the absolute 
responsibility of the human will” (429). It should be noted that the foreknowledge of Nicholas 
II regarding the coming damnation of Boniface VIII has the same problematic effect with 
respect to Boniface’s free will. 

51 See Barberi Squarotti and Boitani, “Ugolino e la narrativa.” 

52 Interestingly, Boitani categorizes both Dante’s exordium of canto 32 and Ugolino’s dream as 
narrative authenticating devices, making use of the terms suggested by Morton Bloomfield. For 
discussion of Bloomfield’s essay in the context of Dante studies, see my “Detheologizing 
Dante.” 





Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 339 


invective against Pisa, and drawing attention to himself, both as semiotic 
codifier of the “bel paese 14 dove ’1 si suona” (33.80),>? and as narrator with 
supreme artistic control over Ugolino’s discourse: “Innocenti facea l’eta novella, 
/ novella Tebe, Uguiccione e ’! Brigata / e li altri due che ’l canto suso appella” 
(33.88-90; italics mine). This tercet ostentatiously reaffirms the narrator’s 
authority over his text, the “canto” in which these names have been inscribed,>* 
appropriating the word with which Ugolino had begun his speech, rinovellare, 
and interpreting it in terms of the poetics of the new. While Ugolino begins his 
speech with a Vergilian formula — “‘Tu vuo’ ch’io rinovelli / disperato dolor’” 
(33.4-5) — that suggests he aims to renew himself through rhetoric, the poet 
ends the encounter with a double use of the adjective novella that tells us 
Ugolino will never be renewed: renewal is only for innocents (like Ugolino’s 
children, whose etd novella makes innocenti), those who will be “rinovellate di 
novella fronde” at the end of Purgatorio. By contrast, Ugolino can only be new 
in the sense that Pisa is a novella Tebe, in a form of deadly repetition, like the 
novelle spalle conferred on the thieves by their hellish metamorphoses. The 
narrator’s double appropriation of “new” in reply to Ugolino’s bid for semiotic 
renewal is a way of truly ending him, shutting him down as absolutely as does 
the narrative, which passes on — toward the truly new — without a backward 
glance in the next verse’s “Noi passammo oltre” (33.91). 

Ugolino’s rhetoric aims to make us forget that for him family connections 
were always political connections, always ties to be exploited by his nocent 
greed as now in hell he tries to exploit his greed’s innocent victims. And yet 
canto 33, taken as a whole, is not evasive; rather it is steeped in the people and 
events that shaped Ugolino’s politics, a politics whose central node was 
Sardinia, a Pisan possession. Ugolino was the Sardinian vicar of Re Enzo, son 
of Frederic II;55 Ugolino’s son Guelfo married Elena, Enzo’s daughter, and 


53 Dante is here reminding us of the treatise in which he classifies the various languages spoken 
in the bel paese, and where he first refers to Italian as the lingua di si. For further connections 

between the De vulgari eloquentia and this portion of the poem, in which we are made to witness 
man’s “betrayal of his very essence as speaker, according to the definition in the treatise” 
(137), see Yowell, “Ugolino’s ‘bestial segno.’” 

54 The writerly context that has absorbed the originally oral canto is denoted by the adverb 

suso; the poet refers to the children whose names are registered above, in the wnitten text. I do 
not agree with Tambling, for whom Ugolino “is going beyond representation, going into the 
stark withdrawal about which there is nothing to say,” and who sees in the episode the signs of 
an “Ugolino impasse” whereby “a writer who continued in the /nferno mode would soon have to 
cease writing altogether” (81-82). This interpretation depends on suspending awareness of the 
composing poet, who demonstrates no difficulty in moving beyond Ugolina, who suffers no 
impasse, no drying up of his tongue as he responds to Ugolino’s narrative with the scathing 
indictment of Pisa. It is not enough to say “The address to Pisa is a separate thing” (82). Why 
conclude that a text that is about absence of signification itself participates in the absence of 
signification it represents? 

55 See Saffiotti Bemardi, “Ugolino”; & propos Ugolino’s vicarship, she comments that 


340 Teodolinda Barolini 


Ugolino’s grandchildren inherited Enzo’s Sardinian possessions. Ugolino’s son- 
in-law, Giovanni Visconti, was also a power on the island as judge of Gallura, 
as was Giovanni’s son, Ugolino’s grandson, Nino Visconti, whom Dante hails 
in the valley of the princes by his Sardinian title: “giudice Nin” (Purg. 8.53). 
These connections begin to manifest themselves in Inferno 33 when Ugolino 
says that Ruggieri appeared to him, in his dream, as “maestro e donno” (28); 
donno is a Sardinianism that occurs only here and in Inferno 22, where it is used 
in the description of the Sardinian barraters. One is friar Gomita of Gallura 
(‘‘frate Gomita, / quel di Gallura” 22.81-82), vicar of Nino Visconti, the lord or 
donno whose enemies he freed for money. The other is “donno Michel Zanche / 
di Logodoro” (22.88-89), a Sardinian noble who originally sided with Genova 
rather than Pisa; he was killed by his Genovese son-in-law Branca Doria, either 
out of greed for his Sardinian holdings or because of his later leanings toward 
Pisa. Sardinia as a catalyst of greed figures in all these dramas, and indeed frate 
Gomita, betrayer of Nino Visconti, and Michel Zanche, betrayed by Branca 
Doria, talk of Sardinia: “e a dir di Sardigna / le lingue lor non si sentono 
stanche” (22.89-90). Sardinia unites all these sinners as the object of their greed 
and strife, and Ugolino was as rapacious a player (not for nothing does he see 
himself as a wolf in his dream) as the others. The guelph Visconti and ghibelline 
Gherardesca families, traditionally opposed, became allies to protect their 
Sardinian holdings, an alliance that led to the ill-fated shared magistracy of 
Ugolino and his grandson Nino. And, in the same way that the poet links the 
players by ties of Sardinian greed, so he links the two cities that both desired the 
island: canto 33 contains not only the fulmination against Pisa but also a 
concluding invective against Genova, hell’s last two civic apostrophes. These 
links are important for understanding the historical backdrop against which 
Ugolino betrayed and was betrayed; they also make canto 33 a repository of . 
infernal themes and motifs. From the truthful lie reminiscent of Malacoda’s with 
which the pilgrim deceives frate Alberigo; to “e cortesia fu lui esser villano” 
(33.150), which echoes Inferno 20’s similar manifesto of an inverted order, ““Qui 
vive la pieta quand’é ben morta’” (20.28); from the pilgrim’s questioning of 
Alberigo, “‘or se’ tu ancor morto?’” (33.121), reminiscent of Nicholas III’s 
earlier questioning of the pilgrim; to the explicit recalls of the pitch and the 
Malebranche in the pouch of barratry — canto 33 sums up the poetics of hell, as 
Ugolino sums up its perverted politics and failed humanity.*° 

Inferno 34 is a canto of transition, a canto whose narrative mode exists in 
the liminal space inhabited by the pilgrim: “Jo non mori’ e non rimasi vivo; / 
pensa oggimai per te, s’hai fior d’ingegno, / qual io divenni, d’uno e d’altro 


“probabilmente il conte usava questo titolo di vicario, oramai privo di contenuto, per 
legittimare le sue pretese sarde” (5: 795). 

Canto 33 also encompasses stylistic extremes, since, as Boitani points out, Alberigo’s tone 
is as “low” as Ugolino’s is “high” ("/nferno XXXIII,” 86). 


Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 341 


privo” (34.25-27). Non mori’ e non rimasi vivo: he is between life and death, 
salvation and damnation, light and darkness, good and evil.*” He is in the space 
between the tenses, the past absolute and present that define Lucifer, whose 
essence is contained by the verse “S’el fu si bel com’elli é or brutto” (34; italics 
mine). He is in the space delineated by the transitional adverbs oramai/og gimai, 
used repeatedly in this canto, the space between “ora” on the one hand and “mai” 
on the other. He is a being dedicated to becoming, as indicated by the triple use 
of divenni: ““Com’io divenni allor gelato e fioco” (22), “qual io divenni, d’uno e 
d’altro privo” (27), “s’io divenni allora travagliato” (91). He is engaged in the 
delicate task of transiting Lucifer, grasping Lucifer (both physically and 
metaphysically),>® without remaining, like Lucifer, stuck in the passato remoto 
of hell, “fitto ancora si come prim’era” (120). The pilgrim must transit the point 
of becoming, “quel punto ch’io avea passato” (93); he must get beyond Lucifer, 
who generates real fear, but no passion. The text privileges the process of 
becoming, of transiting, not the creature who emblematizes the ground of 
transition, the core of what must be left behind. Even the application of the 
Geryon principle to Lucifer’s physical awesomeness is accomplished quickly, 
almost routinely: “Oh quanto parve a me gran maraviglia / quand’io vidi tre facce 
a la sua testa!” (37-38). Lucifer is represented in such a way as to remind us that 
evil is the absence of good; from a narrative point of view, therefore, Lucifer is 
deliberately handled as a nonengaging, noninvolving, “nonpresent” anti-climax. 
So, the question is raised: if evil is absence, and some sinners are more present, 
does that mean that they are less evil? 

We come back thus, at the end of the /nferno, to perhaps the canticle’s chief 
problematic, which I believe can best be resolved by realizing that it is at heart a 
narrative problematic. We could think of the (theological) problems raised by 
Dante’s (narrative) need to institutionalize difference: are the souls of upper hell 
in any absolute sense better than those lower down, any less damned? (Vergil 
seems to suggest as much when he explains “‘come incontinenza / men Dio 
offende e men biasimo accatta’” 11.83-84). Are the souls in antepurgatory, and 
by extension those in the lower heavens, any less saved than those higher up? 
Ultimately, Francesca is as damned as Ugolino, Belacqua as redeemed as Arnaut 
and Piccarda as saved as Beatrice, but Dante has created a system in which these 
truths are blurred by the narrative requirements of gradatio — of difference. We 
could raise the related issue of the “great” sinners, and suggest that souls like 


57 The condition of the neutrals, of whom Dante writes at the outset of the journey — as now he 
is at the end — that “‘mai non fur vivi’” (Inf. 3.64), is perhaps akin to this one, making them 
souls who never transited transition. 

58 With the words “per cotali scale . . . conviensi dipartir da tanto male” (82, 84), Vergil echoes 
“Omai si scende per si fatte scale,” canto 17’s first formulation of participatory transition. 
Verduin reads the episode as the pilgrim’s participation in the “essentially deathful condition of 
the devil” (211). 


342 Teodolinda Barolini 


Francesca and Ulysses are indeed privileged by Dante, not morally or 
eschatologically, but textually. Ultimately, we must detheologize, and ask: How 
could a poet effectively represent absence without having established some 
presence to play against it? How could he fashion anti-climaxes, big or little, 
without fashioning climaxes as well? When the requirements of narrative conflict 
with the laws of justice, Dante must bow to narrative. By working relentlessly 
to situate us within his speculum, he seeks to reorient us: if we see things from 
inside, from within the Commedia’s possible world, then perhaps we will not 
notice that the laws that govern this ultimately textual universe are in fact less 
God’s laws than his own. 


New York University 


Works Cited 


Almansi, Guido. “I serpenti infernali.” L’estetica dell’osceno. Torino: Einaudi, 1974. 
37-88. 

Augustine. On Christian Doctrine. Trans. D. W. Robertson, Jr. Indianapolis: Bobbs- 
Merrill, 1958. 

Baraniski, Zygmunt G. ““Significar per verba: Notes on Dante and Pluri-lingualism.” 
The Itaianist 6 (1986): 5-18. 

. “Dante’s Biblical Linguistics.” Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante Research 

and Interpretation 5 (1989): 
105-43. 

Barasch, M. and L. F. Sandler, eds. Art, the Ape of Nature (Studies in Honor of H. W. 
Janson). New York: Abrams, 1981. 

Barberi Squarotti, Giorgio. “L’orazione del conte Ugolino.” Lettere italiane 23 
(1971): 3-28. 

Barchiesi, Marino. “Arte del prologo e arte della transizione.” Studi danteschi 44 
(1967): 115-207. 

Barolini, Teodolinda. Dante’s Poets: Textuality and Truth in the Comedy. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1984. 

. “Re-presenting What God Presented: The Arachnean Art of the Terrace of 
Pride.” Dante Studies 105 (1987): 43-62. 

. “Detheologizing Dante: For a ‘New Formalism’ in Dante Studies.”Dante 
Today. Ed. Amilcare Iannucci. A special issue of Quaderni d'italianistica 10 
(1988): 35-53. 

. “True and False See-ers in Inferno 20.” Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante 
Research and Interpretation 4 
(1989): 42-54. 

. “Arachne, Argus, and St. John: Transgressive Art in Dante and Ovid.” 
Mediaevalia 13 (1989 [for 1987]): 207-26. 

. “Q: Does Dante Hope for Vergils Salvation? A: Why Do We Care? For the 





Narrative and Style in Lower Hell 343 


Very Reason We Should Not Ask the Question.” MLN 105 (1990): 138-44. 

Battaglia Ricci, Lucia. Dante e la tradizione letteraria medievale. Pisa: Giardini, 
1983. 

Biagi, Guido. Ed. La Divina Commedia nella figurazione artistica e nel secolare 
commento. 3 vols. Torino: UTET, 1924-1929. 

Bloomfield, Morton. “Authenticating Realism and the Realism of Chaucer.”Thought 
39 (1964): 335-58. 

Boitani, Piero. “Ugolino e la narrativa.” Studi danteschi 53 (1981): 31-52. 

. “Inferno XXXIII.” Cambridge Readings in Dantes Comedy. Ed. Kenelm 
Foster and Patrick Boyde. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1981. 

Camporesi, Piero. “Il carnevale allinferno.” // paese della fame. Bologna: Il Mulino, 
1978. 23-51. 

Chiappelli, Fredi. “Il colore della menzogna nell’/nferno dantesco.”Letture classensi 
18 (1989): 115-28. 

Contini, Gianfranco. Ed. Dante Alighieri: Rime. 1946. Rpt. Torino: Einaudi, 1970. 

Curtius, Emst Robert. European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages. 1948. Trans. 
Willard R. Trask. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1973. 

Delcorno, Carlo. “Dante e fExemplum medievale.” Lettere italiane 35 (1983): 3-28. 

DeRobertis, Domenico. “In viaggio coi demoni.” Studi danteschi 53 (1981):1-29. 

Ferrante, Joan. “Good Thieves and Bad Thieves: A Reading of Inferno XXIV.” Dante 
Studies 104 (1986): 83-98. 

Frankel, Margherita. “Dantes Anti-Virgilian Villanello (Inf. XXIV, 1-21).” Dante 
Studies 102 (1984): 81-109. 

Gomi, Guglielmo. II nodo della lingua e il verbo d'amore. Firenze: Olschki,1981. 

Hollander, Robert. “Dantes ‘Book of the Dead’: A Note on Inferno XXIX 57.”Studi 
danteschi 54 (1982): 31-51. 

. “Virgil and Dante as Mind-Readers (Inferno XXI and XXIII).” Medioevo 
romanzo 9 (1984): 85-100. 

Kirkpatrick, Robin. Dante’s Inferno: Difficulty and Dead Poetry. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1987. 

Lotman, Jurij M. “Il viaggio di Ulisse nella Divina commedia di Dante.” In Testo e 
contesto. Bari: Laterza, 1980. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

. “Theologia ludens: Angels and Devils in the Divine Comedy.” In Discourses 
of Authority in Medieval and Renaissance Literature. Ed. Kevin Brownlee and 
Walter Stephens. Hanover: UP of New England, 1989. 216-35. 

Musa, Mark. Comm. Dante's Inferno. Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1971. 

Papanti, Giovanni. Dante, secondo la tradizione e i novellatori. Livorno: Vigo, 
1873. 

Picone, Michelangelo. “Giulleria e poesia nella Commedia: una lettura intertestuale di 
Inferno XXI-XXII.” Letture classensi 18 (1989): 11-30. 

Russo, Vittorio. “Jf XXII 0 del ‘grottesco sublime.”” In J] romanzo teologico. Napoli: 
Liguori, 1984. 95-123. 

Saffiotti Bernardi, Simonetta. “Ugolino.” Enciclopedia dantesca. 6 vols. Roma: 
Istituto dell’Enciclopedia italiana, 1970-1978. 

Sanguineti, Edoardo. Interpretazione di Malebolge. Firenze: Olschki, 1961. 

Shankland, Hugh. “Dante Aliger and Ulysses.” Italian Studies 32 (1977): 21-40. 





344 Teodolinda Barolini 


Spitzer, Leo. “The Farcical Elements in Inferno, Cantos XXI-XXIII.” MLN 59 (1944): 
83-88. 

Storey, H. Wayne. “Mapping Out the New Poetic Terrain: Malebolge and Jnferno 
XVIII.” Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 4 (1989): 
30-41. 

Tambling, Jeremy. Dante and Difference: Writing in the Commedia. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1988. 

Verduin, Kathleen. “Dante and the Sin of Satan: Augustinian Patterns in Inferno 
XXXIV .22-27.” Quaderni d’ italianistica 4 (1983): 208-17. 

Yowell, Donna L. “Ugolino’s ‘bestial segno’: The De vulgari eloquentia in 
Inferno XXXII-XXXII1.” Dante Studies 104 (1986): 121-43. 

. ‘““Guardate e attendete: Inferno XXX and the Threat of Sensationalism.” 
Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante Research and Interpretation 7 (1990): 
forthcoming. 






























Aili 4 kilo in Diote’s Diving Comerty 644 


Malad Re GOH he voc ler atdly ihe Ooh and dynam doneplay 
between ile Diviad Ceetinty mii ie Rible whith Dante ao painstakwngly 
eens aft whit's we ie ihioueh ay anlderkianding’ en 
arias libn enter eh: oat’ sinntl iii apitart. Oo Lnoitdiel 
pol Wikiie this piteee,. wh i oouny akin to ovo Ruch as-“postios of 
neha,” oray be. up? mums of Dante's incopoamuna of 
poeeiccanhtt Pe islet ci Satya vel Waoad’ OU SAE Yee OT He 
"7 ea enon Tea eto gional on nor een Bait sghadontgtic) Siftohony 
ipRtianaoseoleneCt Mest lo oraboutty bdoremhT atotitaneanes nie yt 
SRO PeeN ahs ADOT Lind det sty MP BMRA ot PIG Ile Hi eR Whidry te 
Rhvn yale AS itihkeariphderietheghia Wi oy ONE Leith iM oly tether a Were 
| Weds we cae if Ranthe wht tae evita ca cre bahay k Se ees Wh UP Beli segebal 
palais Hote ieuhy \nveNC ody ot eved | etoy Lovee sig att! 10 
A) an ipnnnepiboitet lity bon Soo ja AS CORT eS Ene be aabiChine Teta 
PO Sadie UA hr Mr un tan SRO Holt Syaetinees ay opheiiny! 
2 PLD OL Net N A 4ivbut' toi Lacey ek Te bei Aenea ited Ey batadtryieey” 
bee PDT PE Htocechina! TH vetaraasey rhe chen DAE et Abt ay teenies Ue TY 
States pes a ee ermal iho LR a On eT gat eS a AE 
Petr re Ca dtiah thi lew os tel gel aasen; Gils VAP ooh eh aeeterets 
tly AAP RAS rte ye! Eee NTone Male OS Dil MEP HOTA IS GROUT | 
Beak ARON tA Nation Yate MPL YON ey Se Ra tM ct oR Pee STEEL 
P OP DREEn aA eT Ra GL EDO Mey RG Ondo eet ae 
De Cty availed Gee yrig ll Pits Ian SONS Oty BH sean AL ge! 
yp Sem tearing’) mens) wii iw ot GRR ia ALS: ye ee weneaia 
OCOD id) A hee oe Le eee Uae Ti ei stint alata» 
7 peti neti oR MS ce nw ft dae erg Wy Crises tet sea tell MG mT 
PDair re oF Nor) RAYE F poration med ReltIeEE 
owrps Ue MtuT coos eneitgh vd Be taolebhet wun eed 
OMG Seraaenne:!: |. cashununt GAL neti es aw er t 
Lome ini ehaitogig 44 oi. yi) s0-ASe ir Voie gtinetiells with aot ass 
p Sti tisadioihs Mian koi. OL T Wel emepeNES ite et: (vedi Dorener* 
Lonmin GVEA II Woe 1) nay ion Apel Poi MOTT aah OP Sinisethad?” 
Teciae Raub Tran) ow rh ofa: edie RIM Te alent iisade 
Paap RY Mander ey oon! on QUT (ORIG TS VaR Amel wy Daivelh Ca tity 
(erie2), diet Motels inna. 9 Sato? feet e). view iTe cee! 
ar CCsbeaLIM) Qty lee nyer > WoRURD PM PCT NA tte TOY irtthg FS 
Neier lariat Gueie-vtibey viele ectai! 4) As sed datllttt Sesser? ee — 
Pisin ‘ar doapiadio Lyin ow oe a dae eee ees 
or WIV, Yt ht ovowolt |, ye M0.) Off th aobosinn oilioaye m zaonsesig 


a “3 la ns lier avaditin TL aeed doe » teenth wach Mim lea We ae a aa WH & Meaiticr of 
y penance ition) awe ne Vited> jlnobeve cevediy gaan 208 
q, ALL tip Vag frvan fre. ow i the ani we ttlcne tom,, oy aye rr owe bl, Gates 


rr Haaticd weal, |) 2M recignc , vile uct sown) etderel Jade l vers) 4 Dy) oltre of £ 


Christopher Kleinhenz 
Biblical Citation in Dante’s Divine Comedy 


In his study The Poetics of Quotation in the European Novel, Herman Meyer 
asks the following questions: “Can the quotation, despite its natural limitations, 
play an essential role in the total structure of a narrative work? Are quotations 
anything more than simply the raisins in the cake, and can their aesthetic effect 
go beyond the momentary delight that the raisins offer the palate?” (4) Meyer’s 
response is, as could be expected from the title of his study, a resounding “yes.” 
For the past several years I have, to use Meyer’s phrase, been examining the 
“raisins” in Dante’s delicious, finely textured, and highly caloric panettone in 
order to evaluate their intrinsic nature and to determine how and what they 
contribute to our appreciation of his poetic piéce de résistance. 

My current research has been focused on the general relationship between the 
Divine Comedy and the Bible and, particularly, on the use Dante makes of the 
Bible in his poem through the process I prefer to call “biblical citation” or the 
“poetics of citation.” The rich and complex relationship between Dante and the 
Bible has been studied by numerous critics over the last century,! and even the 
earliest commentators on the poem (Guido da Pisa, Pietro di Dante, Boccaccio, 
et al.) were sensitive to those passages which displayed Scriptural origin or 
influence. It is, of course, impossible to work on the Divine Comedy without 
acknowledging one’s indebtedness to the long and distinguished tradition of 
Dante scholarship; and, acutely aware of the vast amount of criticism that has 
accumulated over the centuries, I readily admit that my own work necessarily 
builds on firm foundations laid by numerous scholars. Earlier studies have 
provided scholars with a catalogue (albeit incomplete) of those passages (some 
three-hundred) in the Comedy which betray definite origin in or parallels with the 
Bible (Moore, Cavedoni, Groppi, et al.), while others have examined the 
presence of biblical language in Dante (Marzot). Other critics have treated the 
general question of Dante and the Bible in excellent and insightful studies 
directed toward the elucidation of other, though no less pertinent, matters, such 
as allegory (Singleton, Hollander, Mazzotta, Giannantonio, Pépin, Sarolli), 
figural realism (Auerbach), typology (Charity, Chydenius), prophecy (Mineo), 
theological poetics (Freccero), Church liturgy (Mastrobuono), and iconography 
(Fallani, Cassell). Many others have dealt with biblical influences on and/or 
presences in specific episodes in the Comedy.” However, in my view, these 


1 See, among others: Cavedoni, Charity, Chydenius, Giannantonio, Hollander, Marzot, 
Mazzotta, Mineo, Moore, Pépin, and Sarolli. 
2 To mention just a few: Frankel, Hawkins, Iannucci, Kaske, Stephany, etc. 


Biblical Citation in Dante’ s Divine Comedy 347 


numerous studies do not consider adequately the rich and dynamic interplay 
between the Divine Comedy and the Bible which Dante so painstakingly 
established and which we may recapture through an understanding and 
investigation of his “poetics of citation.”? 

While this phrase, which is obviously akin to others such as “poetics of 
allusion,” may be used to describe any example of Dante’s incorporation of 
another text — classical, biblical, vernacular — within his own, I am, for the 
purposes of this study, limiting myself to those instances of biblical citation. 
Dante the Poet’s relationship to other texts is varied. He is in many ways a 
mediator of other texts — a scribe, a translator, an editor, an interpreter — but 
he is not only a mediator or compiler; he is a poet and a prophet as well, 
drawing inspiration from these other texts and developing and refining through 
them his own distinctive poetic voice. 

By “poetics of citation” I refer to Dante’s technique of evoking a particular 
word, verse, or passage in the Bible through the use of an exact or modified 
version of the Latin text or an Italian translation or paraphrase of the Vulgate 
within his own text. The application of this term goes far beyond its seemingly 
narrow textual limits; indeed, through use of scriptural reference Dante not only 
invokes the text of the Bible, but also evokes the written and visual traditions 
that are attached to that specific text. Thus, while Dante uses some scriptural 
citations simply for their immediate evocative value, he employs many others 
whose function in the text may be fully understood only through a careful 
consideration of these various sources, analogues and materials, and their 
associations and interconnections. My research, therefore, is directed toward 
shedding some light 1) on the inventive process that was at work in Dante’s 
mind when he was writing his masterpiece and 2) on the sort of assimilative 
process the poet expected on the part of his reader. The “poetics of citation” 
represents the employment both of direct references that rely on earlier authors (= 
authorities) and of references which have a certain metaphorical allusiveness that 
invokes no less directly those same texts. We might well call this technique the 
“poetics of allusion” or the “poetics of reference” or even — and this perhaps 
best expresses the goal toward which Dante was striving — the “poetics of 
authority.” Nevertheless, I prefer to think of this procedure in decidedly textual 
terms, which, for me at least, the word “citation” conveys best. It expresses 
Dante’s desire for his text to be a proclamation of his personal, yet universal 
vision, an announcement which will serve to correct the “evil ways of the 
world,” the “mondo che mal vive” (Purg. 32:103),4 a message which derives its 
moral and spiritual force precisely because it is rooted in and appeals to the 


3 In earlier studies I have treated this general question and its specific application to a number of 
episodes in the Comedy. 

4 All passages from the Comedy follow the ttxt established by Petrocchi, La commedia secondo 
U'antica vulgata. 


348 Christopher Kleinhenz 


authority of Holy Scripture, such that the Comedy itself becomes a sort of “new 
scripture.” 

In line with my previous work on this subject, I would like to examine a 
few specific episodes and/or passages so that we may begin to understand how 
Dante uses the biblical text as an integral part of his own text and to discover 
how meaning in the Comedy may be either generated or enhanced by a 
consideration of the larger referential context provided by the biblical tradition. 

Biblical citations in the Comedy take several forms. They may be exact, 
modified, or incomplete versions of the Latin text of the Vulgate or Italian 
translations or paraphrases thereof. These citations may be long or short, several 
lines, an entire verse or even a single word, just enough to trigger a response in 
the mind of the reader, to evoke that other text and its context and meaning. One 
example of exact citation from the Vulgate is the verse from Matthew — 
“Venite benedicti Patris mei” (Matthew 25:34)° — with which Christ will 
summon the blessed at the time of the Last Judgment. Dante incorporates these 
exact words in Purgatory 27:58, where the angel addresses them to Dante the 
Pilgrim, Virgil, and Statius after their passage through the wall of fire on the 
seventh terrace and prior to their admittance to the earthly paradise at the top of 
the mountain. Once in the garden the three wayfarers will witness the triumphal 
procession of the Church, which culminates in the advent of Beatrice who comes 
as Christ will come at the end of time. The use of the verse from Matthew at 
this crucial juncture — after purification and before entry to Eden — recalls to 
the reader the final advent and office of Christ, thus setting the stage for the 
analogous advent of Beatrice and focusing attention on her pronouncement of 
judgment on Dante the Pilgrim.® 

On at least one occasion Dante clearly points to the glossing function of the 
biblical citation. During his third night on the Mountain of Purgatory and just 
before his entry in the earthly paradise, Dante the Pilgrim has his third prophetic 
dream, in which the allegory of the active and the contemplative life is presented 
through the traditional Old Testament figures of Leah and Rachel. Leah who 
sings and gathers flowers represents the active life; Rachel who sits constantly 
before her mirror meditating upon her own image symbolizes the contemplative 
life. In the dream Leah clarifies the meaning by saying: “‘lei lo vedere e me 
l’ovrare appaga’” (27:108). The prophetic potential of this early morning dream 
is realized when Dante, taking his first steps in the garden, sees a lady — 
Matelda — gathering flowers and singing. The garden of Eden is, of course, a 
place of paradoxes, being at once the place of original sin, man’s fall, and a 
wondrously attractive and desirable locus amoenus. Recognizing that her 
apparent happiness in this ambiguous place could puzzle the Pilgrim, Matelda 
advises him to consider the ninety-first Psalm — identified here by the single 


5 an passages from the Bible follow the Vulgate. 
6 For a full treatment of this episode see, among others, Singleton, Dante Studies 2, esp. 72-85. 


Biblical Citation in Dante’ s Divine Comedy 349 


word “‘Delectasti” — to discover the reason: 


“Voi siete nuovi, e forse perch’io rido”, 
comincid ella, “in questo luogo eletto 

a l’umana natura per suo nido, 
maravigliando tienvi alcun sospetto; 
ma luce rende il salmo Delectasti, 

che puote disnebbiar vostro intelletto”. 
(Purg. 28:76-81) 


The explicit, telegraphic reference sets in motion the mental process that recalls 
the precise verses of the Psalm: 


5. Quia delectasti me, Domine, in factura tua; Et in operibus manuum tuarum 
exsultabo. 6. Quam magnificata sunt opera tua, Domine! Nimis profundae factae sunt 
cogitationes tuae. 7. Vir insipiens non cognoscet, Et stultus non intelliget haec. 

(Ps. 91:5-7) 


We recognize the very precise relationship between the biblical text and the 
events in the Comedy. As Singleton has carefully noted, “Matelda, by her 
allusion to the psalm, is telling us that the joy she experiences is the joy of 
love, and that her song . . . is a love song in praise of the Lord who made these 
things” (Dante Studies 2, 207). Matelda, as the correlative of the figure of Leah 
in Dante’s dream, as the embodiment of the “active life,” takes special pleasure 
in God’s works, in the works of His hands. The wonders of God’s handiwork 
can, of course, be seen everywhere in Creation, but here, in the garden of Eden, 
they have a particular force and poignancy, for these sights and joys, which were 
lost to man because of the Fall, represent in consequence the goal of his 
longing. The return to Eden — Dante the Pilgrim’s return — is then the 
regaining of that original state of justice before the Fall. Matelda’s precise 
reference to Delectasti does not necessarily limit our attention to these specific 
verses, but rather should invite us to consider the Psalm in its entirely. 
Significantly, the final verses of the ninety-first Psalm celebrate the just man 
who “shall flourish like the palm tree,” the one who “shall grow up like the 
cedar of Libanus” (“Iustus ut palma florebit; Sicut cedrus Libani multiplicabitur” 
13). The Psalmist continues: 


14. Plantati in domo Domini, In atriis domus Dei nostri florebunt. 15. Adhuc 
multiplicabuntur in senecta uberi Et bene patientes erunt: 16. Ut annuntient quoniam 


rectus Dominus Deus noster, Et non est iniquitas in eo. 
(Ps. 91:14-16) 


Matelda’s joy is thus twofold, arising from her appreciation of God’s works and 
from her recognition of His promise of salvation to the just man. In the present 


350 Christopher Kleinhenz 


context Dante the Pilgrim has just returned to Eden, and is, thus, “planted in the 
house of the Lord.” Matelda experiences joy in this verification of God’s promise 
in Psalm 91; and thus her song is also a celebration of the “just man” — the 
Pilgrim — who is newly arrived in the garden. 

Sometimes Dante slightly modifies a direct citation from the Vulgate. One 
such example occurs in Purgatory 30, in the canto following the triumphal 
procession of the Church. A member of the mystical procession — presumably 
the representative of Solomon’s Canticle — calls for the advent of Beatrice, and 
all of the participants in the procession then join in this triple shout: “e un di 
loro, quasi da ciel messo, / ‘Veni, sponsa, de Libano’ cantando / grido tre volte, 
e tutti li altri appresso” (30:10-12). The verse in question — “Veni, sponsa, de 
Libano” (Purg. 30:11) — presents in slightly different order and with one 
omission the words in the Song of Songs — “Veni de Libano, sponsa mea” 
(4:8). In the Comedy these words are said to be repeated three times, just as the 
imperative veni is repeated in the Bible.’ Although Dante rarely alludes to the 
Song of Songs, the citation has a particular importance and force in this highly 
complex allegorical episode. Like most of his contemporaries, Dante was most 
interested in the allegorizations of the Song of Songs, and here in Purgatory he 
refers directly to the sponsa, the comely bride who was variously interpreted as 
the human soul, the Virgin Mary, and the Church. However, none of these 
interpretations is really appropriate in the Dantean context. The Church, for 
example, is already present on the scene as the triumphal chariot, the “carro” on 
which Beatrice will miraculously appear. To clarify this point, we must recall 
that the sponsa of the Song of Songs was also interpreted in the allegorical 
tradition as “Sapientia,” the Wisdom of God. When she appears on the chariot, 
Beatrice is described as follows: “sovra candido vel cinta d’uliva / donna 
m’apparve, sotto verde manto / vestita di color di fiamma viva” (30:31-33). The 
olive tree was sacred to Minerva, the goddess of wisdom; hence, the association 
is complete with the earlier reference to the Song of Songs. We might also 
wonder if there were reasons other than metrical for Dante’s reordering of the 
phrase from the Song of Songs. By omitting the possessive mea, he renders the 
sponsa — Beatrice — less restricted, less personal, and more universal in her 
interpretation. By placing sponsa immediately after the imperative veni, Dante 
focuses greater attention on her and her miraculous qualities, not on the place of 
origin. 

At times the biblical citation is incomplete in that the phrases cited mark 
the boundaries of a larger, missing text. In the tenth canto of Purgatory Dante 
and Virgil observe three relief sculptures representing the virtue of humility. The 


7 Most commentators mention this similarity; see among others, Singleton, The Divine 
Comedy, Purgatorio: 2, Commentary 730. 

8 In the Convivio Dante refers to this figure as “Divina Scienza” (II, xiv, 19-20). On this point, 
see, among others, Singleton’s commentary to the Purgatory 738-39. 


Biblical Citation in Dante’ s Divine Comedy 351 


first portrays the Annunciation to Mary and so lifelike is the marble carving that 
it “speaks” to them in the language of the Gospel of Luke (1:28-38): 


Giurato si saria ch’el dicesse “Ave!” 
perché iv’ era imaginata quella 
ch’ad aprir l’alto amor volse la chiave; 
e avea in atto impressa esta favella 
“Ecce ancilla Dei”, propriamente 
come figura in cera si suggella. 
(Purg. 10:40-45) 


Gabriel’s initial address — “Ave” — and Mary’s eventual response — “Ecce 
ancilla Dei” — define the boundaries of the biblical citation. The rapid 
succession of the two phrases as heard by Dante the Pilgrim in his mind is in 
part a function of the artistic medium that enables the observer to see the scene 
in its entirety and to “hear” the words in a virtually simultaneous fashion. 
Readers of Dante’s text are invited to consider not only the two specified 
fragments of the biblical text but to fill in the missing portion — some ten 
verses — in which the angel explains to Mary the cause of this miraculous event 
in order to allay her fears and doubts. Just as the artistic representation evokes 
the immediate scene and its multifold ramifications, so do the spare words cited 
evoke the entire passage in the Gospel: 


28. Et ingressus angelus ad eam dixit: Ave gratia pleta: Dominus tecum: benedicta tu 
in mulieribus. 29. Quae cum audisset, turbata est in sermone eius, et cogitabat qualis 
esset ista salutatio. 30. Et ait angelus ei: Ne timeas Maria, invenisti enim gratiam 
apud Deum: 31. ecce concipies in utero, et paries filium, et vocabis nomen eius 
IESUM: 32. hic erit magnus, et Filius Altissimi vocabitur, et dabit illi Dominus Deus 
sedem David patris eius: et regnabit in domo Iacob in aeternum, 33. et regni eius non 
erit finis. 34. Dixit autem Maria ad angelum: Quomodo fiet istud, quoniam virum non 
cognosco? 35. Et respondens angelus dixit ei: Spiritus sanctus superveniet in te, et 
virtus Altissimi obumbrabit tibi. Ideoque et quod nascetur ex te sanctum, vocabitur 
Filius Dei. 36. Et ecce Elisabeth cognata tua, et ipsa concepit filium in senectute sua: 
et hic mensis sextus est illi, quae vocatur sterilis: 37. quia non erit impossibile apud 
Deum omne verbum. 38. Dixit autem Maria: Ecce ancilla Domini, fiat mihi secundum 
verbum tuum. Et discessit ab illa angelus. 

(Luke 1:28-38) 


In some instances a Latin phrase is so charged with biblical echoes that its 
mere use is sufficient to evoke this larger context. In his narration of the life of 
St. Francis in Paradiso_11, Thomas Aquinas at one point uses the Latin phrase 
“et coram patre” to refer to Francis’s meeting with his father in the episcopal 
court of Assisi. In this dramatic scene Francis, stripping himself naked, 
renounces his earthly father and all worldly possessions to wed, as it were, Lady 
Poverty with the blessing of the bishop and before the assembled people: “ché 


352 Christopher Kleinhenz 


per tal donna, giovinetto, in guerra / del padre corse, a cui, come a la morte, / la 
porta del piacer nessun diserra; / e dinanzi a la sua spirital corte / et coram patre 
le si fece unito” (Par. 11:58-62). By using the phrase et coram patre, Dante 
evokes the passage in Matthew 10, where “patre” refers to God:? 


32. Omnis ergo qui confitebitur me coram hominibus, confitebor et ego eum coram 
Patre meo, qui in caelis est. 33. Qui autem negaverit me coram hominibus, negabo et 


ego eum coram Patre meo, qui in caelis est. 
(Matthew 10:32-33) 


Francis’s life was in many respects an imitatio Christi, and these well known 
similarities form the basis for Dante’s presentation of the saint. Thus, the use in 
Paradise 11 of the phrase coram patre would appear to serve a dual — indeed, a 
pivotal function — first describing Francis’s appearance before his carnal father, 
and secondly, and more importantly, referring to his mystical marriage with Lady 
Poverty before the bishop and God, his spiritual father. This transfer of 
allegiance from his earthly to his heavenly father is the beginning of Francis’s 
own special mission on earth, one that accords in important ways with that of 
Christ.!° 

Citations from the Vulgate have their vernacular counterparts, and the text 
of the Comedy is studded with examples of Italian translations and paraphrases of 
biblical words, phrases, or entire verses. In Inferno 10, for example, Farinata 
degli Uberti, the great Ghibelline warlord, addresses Dante as a fellow citizen of 
Florence, stating that he has recognized him through his Tuscan speech: “La tua 
loquela ti fa manifesto” (/nf. 10:25). As most commentators on the poem 
indicate, this phrase translates the words spoken to Peter after he has denied 
Christ for the third time — “Loquela tua manifestum te facit” (Matthew 26:73). 
However, these same commentators do not generally provide any further gloss. 
In a forthcoming essay (“Poetics of Citation”) I have attempted to demonstrate 
how meaning in this canto is generated by a remarkable conjunction of 
individual words, complete phrases, and images, through which Dante is able to 
draw our attention to the specific biblical text and its larger referential context of 
the Passion, Crucifixion, and Resurrection. We are first led to these 
considerations by the poet’s insistence on the biblical citation — “la tua loquela 
ti fa manifesto” — which sets in motion the entire series of intertextual 
connections. 

Another example of the Italianization of a biblical phrase occurs on the first 
terrace of the Mountain of Purgatory. There we meet Omberto Aldobrandeschi, 


9 Most commentators note the biblical reference without comment. 

10 In the Legenda maior (II, 4; The Life of St. Francis 194) Bonaventure focuses on this precise 
moment of transfer by reporting Francis’s words: “‘Until now I have called you father here on 
earth, but now I can say without reservation, Our Father who art in heaven (Matt. 6:9), since I 
have placed all my treasure and my hope in him.” 


Biblical Citation in Dante’ s Divine Comedy 353 


the second son of Guglielmo Aldobrandeschi, Count of Santafiora in the Sienese 
Maremma, who speaks of his pride and how it caused his death: 


“L’antico sangue e l’opere leggiadre 
d’i miei maggior mi fer si arrogante, 
che, non pensando a la comune madre, 
ogn’ uomo ebbi in despetto tanto avante, 
ch’io ne mori”. 
(Purg. 11: 61-65) 


One phrase in this passage — “common mother” (comune madre) — has been 
variously interpreted as referring either to Eve, the first mother and thus of all 
humankind, or to Nature or to the earth. As many commentators note, the 
probable biblical source of this phrase is Ecclesiasticus 40:1: “Occupatio magna 
creata est, omnibus hominibus, et iugum grave super filios Adam, a die exitus 
de ventre matris eorum usque in diem sepulturae in matrem omnium.” However, 
these same critics have failed to recognize that this passage conveys far more 
than a simple textual reference to the “comune madre.” In the verse from 
Ecclesiasticus we note the burden of original sin on the “children of Adam” 
(“filios Adam”), which is represented by the phrases “occupatio magna” (“great 
labor”) and “iugum grave” ("heavy yoke”). Man’s tribulation begins with birth 
and ends only with death. In the Dantean context the souls on the terrace of pride 
are weighed down with heavy stones such that they move “like oxen under the 
yoke” (“come buoi che vannoa giogo” Purg. 12:1). The purgation of pride, 
which was Adam’s sin and is the beginning of all sins (Ecclesiasticus 10:15: 
“initium omnis peccati est superbia”), is effected by subjection to the yoke 
which instills humility. Omberto’s pride was such that he despised everyone, 
ignoring the fact that we have a common mother (whether Eve or Earth, it does 
not matter). We enter and leave the world in the same fashion; the miseries of 
existence affect everyone, and death is, of course, the great leveler. These 
concerns are the subject of the subsequent verses in Ecclesiasticus: 


2. Cogitationes eorum, et timores cordis, adinventio exspectationis, et dies 
finitionis, 3. a residente super sedem gloriosam, usque ad humilatum in terra et cinere; 
4. ab eo qui utitur hyacintho et portat coronam, usque ad eum qui operitur lino crudo; 
furor, zelus, tumultus, fluctuatio, et timor mortis, iracundia perseverans, et contentio; 
(Ecclus. 40:2-4) 


Is it by accident that the words of Omberto — the proud scion of the powerful 
Aldobrandeschi family, now humbled in Purgatory — refer to that particular 
biblical passage? 

Later in this same episode in Purgatory 11 Dante meets the shade of Oderisi 
da Gubbio, a well known manuscript illuminator, who speaks of the vanity of 
worldly endeavors and the fleeting quality of earthly fame: 


354 Christopher Kleinhenz 


Oh vana gloria de l’umane posse! 
com’ poco verde in su la cima dura, 
se non é giunta da l’etati grosse! 

Credette Cimabue ne la pittura 
tener lo campo, e ora ha Giotto il grido, 
si che la fama di colui é scura. 

Cosi ha tolto I’uno a |’altro Guido 
la gloria de la lingua; e forse é nato 
chi l’uno e I’altro caccera del nido. 

Non é il mondan romore altro ch’un fiato 
di vento, ch’or vien quinci e or vien quindi, 
e muta nome perché muta lato. 

(Purg. 11:91-102) 


Nothing is stable is this sublunary sphere. Oderisi notes that in the fields of 
painting and poetry one excellent craftsman shall surpass the fame of his 
illustrious predecessor. As Giotto has eclipsed the fame of Cimabue, so Guido 
Cavalcanti has surpassed Guido Guinizelli. The final phrase couched in the future 
— “e forse é nato / chi l’uno e I’altro caccera del nido” — alludes vaguely 
(“forse”) to another poet who will chase both from the [poetic] nest, an allusion 
which may well refer to Dante himself. As commentators have almost 
unanimously noted, the metaphor for fame, both here and later in this canto 
(11:115-17) — the verdant grass which rapialy withers and dies — reflects 
several biblical passages, as, for example, Psalm 89:6 (“Mane sicut herba 
transeat; Mane floreat, et transeat; Vespere decidat, induret, et arescat”), or 
Ecclesiasticus 14:18 (“Omnis caro sicut foenum veterascet, Et sicut folium 
fructificans in arbore viridi”), and Isaiah 40:6 (“Omnis caro foenum, Et omnis 
gloria eius quasi flos agri”). What commentators have generally not considered, 
however, is the larger and illuminating context provided by the several biblical 
analogues to this citation. Three verses later in Psalm 89 we find the reference to 
the years of man’s life — “The days of our years . . . are threescore and ten 
years” (10. Dies annorum nostrorum in ipsis septuaginta anni. Si autem in 
potentatibus octoginta anni, Et amplius eorum labor et dolor; Quoniam 
supervenit mansuetudo, et corripiemur” Psalm 89:10) — which provides the 
basis for the fictional age of the Pilgrim and the journey’s date — “nel mezzo del 
cammin di nostra vita” Jnf. 1:1) — and confirms the identity of Dante as the one 
who has been born. The passage in Ecclesiasticus 14 is concerned with the 
necessity of living properly according to the dictates of wisdom and justice: 


20. Omne opus corruptibile in fine deficiet, Et qui illud operatur ibit cum illo. 21. Et 
omne opus electum iustificabitur, Et qui operatur illud honorabitur in illo. 22. Beatus 
vir qui in sapientia morabitur, Et qui in iustitia sua meditabitur, Et in sensu cogitabit 
circumspectionem Dei. 


Biblical Citation in Dante’ s Divine Comedy 355 
(Ecclus. 14:20-22) 


These verses would seem to relate to Dante’s own sense of mission, his 
description of the state of souls after death in order to, on the allegorical level of 
the poem, describe the operation of Divine Justice. The fact that he viewed 
himself as living in a dismal age caused him to assume a prophetic voice in the 
Comedy, to lament the degradation of mankind, and to attempt to chart, through 
example and exhortation, the proper course for the regeneration of human 
society. The biblically resonant phrase “com’ poco verde in su la cima dura” we 
must recall is qualified by the “se non é giunta da |’etati grosse!” Thus, if Dante 
viewed his own age as one of the “etati grosse” which Oderisi mentions, is he in 
essence calling attention to his hope that his fame will endure a bit — indeed, a 
lot! — longer? If so, then this would be one major, additional reason for Dante 
to depict pride as his principal sin and to allude to his future lengthy stay on this 
purgatorial terrace. 

Another example of Dante’s Italian adaptation of biblical phraseology occurs in 
Paradiso 29. In the midst of her diatribe against philosophers and false preachers 
Beatrice evokes the passage at the end of the Gospel of Mark — “Go ye into the 
whole world, and preach the gospel to every creature” ("Euntes in mundum 
universum praedicate Evangelium omni creaturae” 16:15) — and adapts it to her 
immediate purpose by substituting the word “ciance” (“idle stories” or even 
“garbage”) for “Evangelium": “Non disse Cristo al suo primo convento: / 
‘Andate, e predicate al mondo ciance’” (29:109-10). The irony and bitter sarcasm 
of this distorted Gospel verse sums up the several points she is making about 
the lack of spiritua: guidance on the part of the clergy. For example, the faithful, 
who are described typically as the flock of innocent lambs — the “‘pecorelle che 
non sanno” — are continually fed with the idle talk, the insubstantial hot air of 
the preachers — “‘tornan dal pasco pasciute di vento.” The movement in the verse 
cited almost completely from Mark — “‘Andate, e predicate al mondo ciance” — 
is like that used in the first verse of Inferno 34, where the ringing incipit of the 
hymn by Venantius Fortunatus, “Vexilla Regis prodeunt,” is distorted, 
transformed to good infernal effect by the addition of the genitive “inferni.” 
Thus, the first three words in the verse lead us to think of the triumph of Christ 
on the Cross, of death being overcome by life. However, when we read the 
fourth word, inferni, we realize, suddenly and with surprise, that these “vexilla” 
are the “banners” that belong to the king of Hell, Lucifer, who is immobile in 
the icy grip of Cocytus. His banners, the grotesque bat-like wings, as Lucifer 
himself, cannot advance; they can only move to generate an icy wind that 
maintains the frigid conditions in this lowest region of Hell.!! In Paradise 29 the 
initial movement of the phrase suggests that it will be a direct citation of the 


11 Tr has been rightly suggested that the icy wind which Lucifer’s wings generate is an ironic 
parody of the spiration of the Holy Ghost (Singleton, Dante Studies 1, esp. 39-42). 


356 Christopher Kleinhenz 


Gospel — ‘“‘Andate, e predicate al mondo” — but the use of “ciance,” which 
belongs to a decidedly lower lexical register, exerts a great effect on the 
reader/listener, one that shocks and clarifies at the same moment. To the power 
of the biblical citation is added the vigorous and dynamic force of a common, 
indeed crude, word that does not sidestep the issue. In much the same way, 
Cacciaguida in Paradise 17 instructed Dante to “let all that [he has] seen be 
manifest”: “tutta tua vision fa manifesta” (Par. 17:128) and to let those afflicted 
“scratch wherever it may itch” (“‘e lascia pur grattar dov’é la rogna’” Par. 
17:129). Cacciaguida continues by expanding on the metaphor of nourishment: 
““Ché se la voce tua sara molesta / nel primo gusto, vital nodrimento / lascera 
poi, quando sara digesta’” (Par.17:130-32). Dante’s voice is like that of the Old 
Testament Prophets who inveigh against corruption and cry out for justice. His 
words — his poem — will be the “vital nodrimento” serving Christendom and 
the cause of justice in the early fourteenth century, as the word of Christ did — 
and still does, or should do — in the Gospels and through the agency of the 
disciples who “a pugnar per accender la fede / de l’Evangelio fero scudo e lance” 
(Par. 29:113-14). 

In addition to these several types of more or less direct verbal citation, there 
is finally a large and more difficult to define category of biblical reference in the 
Divine Comedy, namely, Dante’s imitative prophetic voice which permeates the 
poem and gives it its special tone and character. On numerous occasions, Dante 
consciously incorporates biblically inspired language and imagery as an integral 
part of his prophetic-apocalyptic vision. In Paradise 27, for example, St. Peter 
delivers a stinging rebuke of Pope Boniface VIII: 


“Quelli ch’usurpa in terra il luogo mio, 
il luogo mio, il luogo mio che vaca 
ne la presenza del Figliuol di Dio, 

fatt’ ha del cimitero mio cloaca 
del sangue e de la puzza; onde ’] perverso 
che cadde di qua si, 1a git si placa”. 
(Par. 27: 22-27) 


While some commentators (see Singleton, Commentary 428) have understood 
these verses — and particularly the phrase “vaca” — to mean that Boniface’s 
election to the Papacy was not legally valid, it is perhaps more accurate to see 
them as a further indictment of the general corruption wreaked upon the Church 
by Boniface. The extent of St. Peter’s outrage is reflected in his threefold 
repetition of the phrase “il luogo mio,” which increases the intensity of the 
invective. Critics have noted, generally without commentary, the similarity 
between this triple repetition and that found in Jeremiah: “Nolite confidere in 
verbis mendacii, dicentes: Templum Domini, templum Domini, templum 
Domini est!” (Jer. 7:4; emphasis mine). The similarity, however, goes beyond 


Biblical Citation in Dante’ s Divine Comedy 357 


the simple fact of threefold repetition. In both cases the holy place has been 
defiled: in the Comedy by Boniface’s greedy usurpation and prostitution of the 
Church; in Jeremiah by a sinful people who would wish to achieve holiness by 
mere virtue of being within the sacred precinct of the temple and by invoking its 
protective aura. Moreover, the passage in Jeremiah reiterates the importance of 
the holy place — Dante’s “luogo” — by referring to the temple with phrases 
such as “in loco hoc” (Jer. 7:7) and “in domo hac” (Jer. 7:10). The third reference 
to the temple (“domus ista”) occurs in the climactic eleventh verse of Jeremiah 7 
which combines mention of the “den of robbers”!? and the triple repetition of 
“Ego” — “Numquid ergo spelunca latronum facta est domus ista, In qua 
invocatum est nomen meum in oculis vestris? Ego, ego sum; ego vidi, dicit 
Dominus” (emphasis mine). God’s personal denunciation of the violation of his 
temple is a direct and forceful parallel to St. Peter’s personal diatribe — “il 
luogo mio” — against clerical corruption. Jeremiah’s language, rhetorical 
devices, and imagery provide an excellent model for Dante’s passage; indeed, 
these carefully constructed passages build to a dramatic intensity which the triple 
repetition and the more general context both convey and confirm. 

By delving more deeply into the Bible, that other text which Dante subtly 
conjures and carefully evokes through his “poetics of citation,” we are able to 
appreciate the Divine Comedy more fully and to understand at least in part how 
the poem has achieved its place of prominence and authority in the Western 
literary tradition. Through his subtle use of biblical citation, Dante has truly 
enabled the Comedy to become a new Scripture, that “poema sacro / al quale ha 
posto mano e cielo e terra” (Par. 25:1-2).}3 


University of Wisconsin-Madison 


Works Cited 


Auerbach, Erich. “‘Figura.’” In Scenes from the Drama of European Literature: 
Six Essays. New York: Meridian Books, 1959. 11-76. 
. “Farinata and Cavalcante.” In Mimesis: The Representation of Reality 
in Western Literature. Tr. Willard Trask. Garden City: Doubleday, 1957. 
151-77. 
Barblan, Giovanni, ed. Dante e la bibbia. Atti del Convegno Internazionale 
promosso da "Biblia.” Firenze, 26-27-28 settembre 1986. Firenze, 


12 This is alluded to earlier in the Comedy by St. Benedict: “spelonche” in Par. 22:77. 

13 The research for this essay was accomplished, in part, during a period of fellowship support 
provided by the Newberry Library (Chicago) and the National Endowment for the Humanities. 
An earlier version of this essay was presented at the annual meeting of the Medieval Academy of 
America in Vancouver (April 5-7, 1990). 


358 Christopher Kleinhenz 


Olschki, 1988. 

Bonaventure. The Soul's Journey into God — The Tree of Life — The Life of St. 
Francis. Tr. and Introd. by Ewert Cousins. Preface by Ignatius Brady, O.F.M. 
New York: Paulist Press, 1978. 

Cassell, Anthony K. Dante’s Fearful Art of Justice. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 1984. 

Cavedoni, Celestino. Raffronti tra gli autori biblici e sacri e la Divina commedia. 
Citta di Castello: Lapi, 1896. 

Charity, A. C. Events and Their Afterlife: The Dialectics of Christian Typology in the 
Bible and Dante. Cambridge: Ca nbridge UP, 1966. 

Chydenius, Johan. The Typological Problem in Dante. Helsingfors: Societas 
Scientiarum Fennica, 1958. 

Dante. La commedia secondo I antica vulgata. 4 vols. Ed. Giorgio Petrocchi. Societa 

Dantesca Italiana, Edizion2 Nazionale. Milano: Mondadari, 1966-1967. 
. Il convivio. 2 vols. Ed. G. Busnelli and G. Vandelli, second ed., Antonio 
Enzo Quaglio. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1964. 
. The Divine Comedy. Inferno: 2. Commentary. Tr. Charles S. Singleton. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1970. 

. The Divine Comedy. Purgatorio: 2. Commentary. Tr. Charles S. Singleton. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1973. 

. The Divine Comedy. Paradiso: 2. Commentary. Tr. Charles S. Singleton. 
Princeton: Princeton UP, 1975. 

Fallani, Giovanni. Dante e la cultura figurativa medievale. Bergamo: Minerva Italica, 
1971. 

Frankel, Margherita. “Biblical Figuration in Dante’s Reading of the Aeneid.” Dante 
Studies 100 (1982): 13-23. 

Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed., and with an Introduction by 
Rachel Jacoff. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. 

Giannantonio, Pompeo. Dante e l'allegorismo. Firenze: Olschki, 1969. 

Groppi, Felicina. Dante traduttore. 2nd ed. Rome: Herder, 1962. 

Hawkins, Peter S. “Transfiguring the Text: Ovid, Scripture and the Dynamics of 
Allusion.” Stanford Italian Review 5 (1985): 115-39. 

. “Scripts for the Pageant: Dante and the Bible.” Stanford Literature Review 5 

(1988): 75-92. 

Hollander, Robert. Allegory in Dante’s “Commedia” . Princeton: Princeton UP, 1969. 

Iannucci, Amilcare A. Forma ed evento nella Divina commedia. Roma: Bulzoni, 
1984. 

Kaske, Robert E. “Dante’s ‘DXV’ and ‘Veltro.’” Traditio 17 (1961): 185-254. 

Kleinhenz, Christopher. “Dante and the Bible: Intertextual Approaches to the Divine 
Comedy.” Italica 63 (1986): 225-36. 

. “Inferno 8: The Passage across the Styx.” Lectura Dantis. A Forum for Dante 

Research and Interpretation 3 (1988): 23-40. 

. “The Poetics of Citation: Dante’s Divina commedia and the Bible.” 
forthcoming in /taliana. 

Marzot, Giulio. JI linguaggio biblico nella Divina commedia. Pisa: Nistri-Lischi, 
1956. 

Mastrobuono, Antonio C. Essays on Dante's Philosophy of History. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1979. 














Biblical Citation in Dante’ s Divine Comedy 359 


Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert: History and Allegory in the “Divine 
Comedy.” Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

Meyer, Herman. The Poetics of Quotation in the European Novel. Tr. Theodore and 
Yetta Ziolkowski. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1968. 

Mineo, Nicold. Profetismo e apocalittica in Dante. Catania: Universita di Catania, 
1968. 

Moore, Edward. Studies in Dante, First Series: Scripture and Classical Authors in 
Dante.. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1896. 

Pépin, Jean. Dante et la tradition de l'allégorie. Montréal: Institut d’études 
médiévales, 1970. 

Sarolli, Gian Roberto. Prolegomena alla “Divina commedia”. Firenze: Olschki, 
1971. 

Singleton, Charles S. Dante Studies 1: Commedia: Elements of Structure. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1954. 

. Dante Studies 2: Journey to Beatrice. Cambridge, Harvard UP, 1958. 

Stephany, William A. “Biblical Allusions to Conversion in Purgatorio XXI.” 

Stanford Italian Review 3 (1983): 141-62. 


John Took 
Dante and the Confessions of Augustine* 


One of the most important features of modern American Dante criticism has 
been its emphasis — notable in the work of, above all, John Freccero (Dante: 
the Poetics of Conversion) — on the Augustinian and Christian-existential 
aspect of Dante’s spirituality.! The emphasis is important for two reasons: (a) 
because it complements our now developed sense of Dante’s position (or rather 
positions) within the spectrum of contemporary Christian Aristotelianism,? and 
(b) because it opens up the possibility of a perennially significant reading of the 
Divine Comedy in terms of becoming, of the struggle on the part of the 
individual to realize the properties of being and personality over and against the 
forces of irrationality and wilfulness. The point is that, like the Christian 
Aristotelians (Albert the Great, for example, or Thomas), Dante was an 
enthusiastic celebrant of the idea, of the notion pure and simple as elucidated on 
the basis of sense experience and of reasonable inference. To this extent, he is 
one in spirit with the leading philosophical and theological spirits of the age. 
Like them, he is an essentialist, an enquirer into the nature or quiddity of things. 
But unlike them — and like Augustine — he pursues his enquiry “from within,” 
from the point of view of one, not merely contemplating the idea, but struggling 
to realize it. Not for him the idea pure and simple, the proposition in and for 
itself, the dialectic over and against the one who fashions it. Instead, the idea 
stands to be appropriated, to be taken over as a principle of self-affirmation; so, 
for example, the Vita nuova, an essay, certainly, in affective and aesthetic 
philosophy, but at the same time testimony to the function of the idea as a 
means of becoming, of intelligible self-realization in time and space; so too the 
Convivio and the De vulgari eloquentia, each of them proposing an ideal to be 
embraced in conscience, and thus envisaging, through the prescriptive, an act of 
historical self-assertion, of positive coming-to-be in this or that individual or 
community; and so too the Commedia, moral and metaphysical on a grand scale, 
but at the same time witness to the complexity of human experience as lived out 


“A preliminary version of this paper was read to the Oxford University post-graduate seminar in 
Italian, Michaelmas, 1989. 

lin general for the Confessions and for its literary fortuna: O’Connell; Courcelle; O’Meara. 

Translations from the Confessions are from Pine-Coffin’s Penguin version, with occasional 
modifications. 

2 See especially: Nardi, Saggi di filosofia dantesca, Nel mondo di Dante and Saggi e note di 

critica dantesca (especially 3-109); Gilson; Foster; Corti, Dante a un nuovo crocevia and La 
felicita mentale. 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 361 


by the individual contemplating heaven and hell as possibility, as a means of 
self-knowledge and evaluation. Everywhere the pattern is the same. Central to 
each work is the conscious self, the pilgrim spirit seeking to lay hold through 
understanding and commitment of the deep reasons of his being, of what it is 
that, once established as an object of knowing and of willing, redeems that being 
from (as Augustine puts it in the Confessions)? the “region of unlikeness,” from 
the wasteland of anonymity and of futility. 

The Confessions, as John Freccero rightly asserts, is Dante’s key text, for it 
was in the Confessions especially that he was able to contemplate the 
Augustinian struggle to be, to resolve the ambiguities of existence in time and 
space in the moral, psychological, and ontological certainty of being in God. 
Documenting the Confessions in Dante is no problem, for along with the Ethics 
of Aristotle, the De amicitia of Cicero, and the Consolatio philosophiae of 
Boethius, it is the most all-pervasive of his texts. Tell-tale signs of its presence 
are everywhere. Take, for example, the dream and enigma sequence of Vita nuova 
XII. 4-5. Love, Dante says, weeps copiously. Standing at the centre of a circle in 
respect of which Dante remains as yet on the edge, he can do nothing but grieve, 
nothing but lament the pain and perplexity of the lover’s predicament: 


e riguardandolo, parvemi che piangesse pietosamente, e parea che attendesse da me 
alcuna parola; ond’io, assicurandomi, cominciai a parlare cosi con esso: “Segnore de 
la nobiltade, e perché piangi tu?” E quelli me dicea queste parole: “Ego tanquam 
centrum circuli, cui simili modo se habent circumferentie partes; tu autem non sic.” 
Allora, pensando a le sue parole, mi parea che m’avesse parlato molto oscuramente; si 
ch’io me sforzava di parlare, e diceali queste parole: “Che é cid, segnore, che mi parli 
con tanta oscuritade?” E quelli mi dicea in parole volgari: “Non dimandare pit che 
utile ti sia.” 

(VN XII. 4-5) 


The passage is perfectly Augustinian, perfectly reminiscent of Monica’s dream 
sequence in Confessions III.11. Monica, like Dante, has had a vision, imagining 
herself to be standing on a wooden rule or balance, grieving over her lost son. 
All of a sudden she sees a shining youth approaching her and reassuring her that 
there, where she is, is Augustine also, likewise justified — as if yet in a manner 
to come — by faith: 


Vidit enim se stantem in quadam regula lignea et advenientem ad se iuvenem 
splendidum hilarem atque adridentem sibi, cum illa esset maerens, et maerore 
confecta. Qui cum causas ab ea quaesisset maestitiae suae cotidianarumque lacrimarum 
docendi ut assolet, non discendi gratia, atque illa respondisset perditionem meam se 
plangere, iussisse illum, quo secura esset, atque admonuisse, ut attenderet et videret, 
ubi esset illa, ibi esse et me. Quod illa ubi attendit, vidit me iuxta se in eadem regula 


3 Conf. VII.10.16: “et inveni longe me esse a te in regione dissimilitudinis.” 


362 John Took 


stantem. 
(Conf. 1.11.19)4 


True, the details differ. It is Monica rather than the young man who grieves, and 
the circle is the balance or rule. But the fundamental structure is the same. Here, 
as in the centrum circuli episode of the Vita nuova, it is a question of home- 
coming, of the soul as brought at last into spiritual equilibrium. For the 
moment all is sorrow and obscurity. Like Monica in the Confessions, Dante in 
the Vita nuova is prey to perplexity and to distress. But within the perspective of 
the book as a whole, perplexity and distress are destined to be resolved in 
certainty and joy. Eccentricity will be taken up in centrality, and imbalance in 
proportion. 

Consider too the solitude motif of Vita nuova XII.1-2 and XIV.9. The 
XII.1-2 instance follows on the trauma of Beatrice’s denial of her greeting, the 
desperation of which contrasts starkly with the celebratory tone of the effect of 
the saluto chapter immediately preceding. Overcome with grief, Dante says, he 
withdrew to weep alone: “Ora, tornando al proposito, dico che poi che la mia 
beatitudine mi fue negata, mi giunse tanto dolore, che, partito me da le genti, in 
solinga parte andai a bagnare la terra d’amarissime lagrime. E poi che alquanto 
mi fue sollenato questo lagrimare, misimi ne la mia camera, 1a ov’io potea 
lamentarmi sanza essere udito” (XII.1-2) — a motif taken up again following the 
gabbo episode of Chapter XIV. Here, mocked by the object of his own desire, 
Dante reaches the low point of his experience as a neo-courtly lover and poet. 
His old understanding of love as gain, as a search for joy through acquisition, is 
bankrupt. Far from bringing happiness, it brings pain and humiliation, indeed 
pain and humiliation shot through with a sense of guilt: “E partitomi da lui, mi 
ritornai ne la camera de le lagrime; ne la quale, piangendo e vergognandomi, fra 
me stesso dicea: ‘Se questa donna sapesse la mia condizione, io non credo che 
cosi gabbasse la mia persona. .. .’” But this is also an Augustinian motif, the 
moment of crisis engendering in Augustine too a desire for seclusion, for the 
freedom to grieve in private: 


Ubi vero a fundo arcano alta consideratio traxit et congessit totam miseriam meam in 
conspectu cordis mei, oborta est procella ingens ferens ingentem imbrem lacrimarum. 
Et ut totum effunderem cum vocibus suis, surrexi ab Alypio — solitudo mihi ad 
negotium flendi aptior — suggerebatur — et secessi remotius. . . . 


4 “She dreamed that she was standing on a wooden rule, and coming towards her in a halo of 
splendour she saw a young man who smiled at here in joy, although she herself was sad and quite 
consumed with grief. He asked the reason for her sorrow and her daily tears, not because he did 
not know, but because he had something to tell her, for this is what happens in visions. When 
she replied that her tears were for the soul I had lost, he told to take heart for, if she looked 
carefully, she would see that where she was, there also was I. And when she looked, she saw me 
standing beside her on the same rule.” 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 363 


(Conf. VIII.12.28)° 


Then, more dramatically, there is the “conflicting thoughts” motif of Vita 
nuova XIII.1-6, foreshadowed by Augustine in each of Books IV, VI, and VII of 
the Confesssions. Here especially Dante enters into the turbulence of 
Augustine’s spirit, into the restlessness of the soul as free-floating, as adrift 
from its proper good. The Vita nuova passage occurs in the course of the 
Cavalcantian phase of the book, where, conscious of love’s sweet finalities, 
Dante ponders its bitter fruits. All, he says, is tension and irresolution. Far from 
settled in understanding and at peace with himself psychologically, he is tossed 
between one intuition and another, between pain and pleasure as the dominant 
modes of his being: 


Appresso di questa soprascritta visione, avendo gia dette le parole che Amore m’avea 
imposte a dire, mi cominciaro molti e diversi pensamenti a combattere e a tentare, 
ciascuno quasi indefensibilemente; tra li quali pensamenti quattro mi parea che 
ingombrassero pit lo riposo de la vita. L’uno de li quali era questo: buona é la 
signoria d’Amore, pero che trae lo intendimento del suo fedele da tutte le vili cose. 
L’altro era questo: non buona é la signoria d’ Amore, pero che quanto lo suo fedele pit 
fede li porta, tanto pil gravi e dolorosi punti li conviene passare. L’altro era questo: 
lo nome d’Amore @ si dolce a udire, che impossibile mi pare che la sua propria 
operazione sia ne le pil cose altro che dolce, con cid sia cosa che li nomi seguitono le 
nominate cose, si come é scritto: “Nomina sunt consequentia rerum.” Lo quarto era 
questo: la donna per cui Amore ti stringe cosi, non @ come l’altre donne, che 
leggeramente si muova del suo cuore. E ciascuno mi combattea tanto, che mi facea 
stare quasi come colui che non sa per qual via pigli lo suo cammino, e che vuole 
andare e non sa onde se ne vada. ... 

(VN XIII.1-6) 


Again Augustine has been there; so, for example, passing over the instances in 
IV. 4 and VI. 12 of the Confessions, the following passage from VII.5, an 
abridged version of what amounts to a whole chapter in the interrogative mood: 


Ubi ergo malum et unde et qua huc inrepsit? Quae radix eius et quod semen eius? An 
omnino non est? Cur ergo timemus et cavemus quod non est? . . . Unde est igitur, 
quoniam Deus fecit haec omnia bonus bona? .. . An unde fecit ea, materies aliqua mala 
erat, et formavit atque ordinavit eam, sed reliquit aliquid in illa, quod in bonum non 
converteret? . . . Talia volvebam pectore misero, ingravidato curis mordacissimis de 
timore mortis et non inventa veritate. ... 


5 4] probed the hidden depths of my soul and wrung its pitiful secrets from it, and when I 
mustered them all before the eyes of my heart, a great storm broke within me, bringing with it a 
deluge of tears. I stood up and left Alypius so that I might weep and cry to my heart’s content, 
for it occurred to me that tears were best shed in solitude.” 


364 John Took 
(Conf. VII.5.7)® 


Here too there are differences. Augustine is concerned with the problem of evil, 
and Dante with the paradoxes of love, with its tendency to generate conflicting 
states of mind. But the structure and substance are again similar. Like 
Augustine, and in sympathy with Augustine’s predicament as related in the 
Confessions, Dante traces the condition of the soul as subject to uncertainty, as 
“far off’ in respect of its proper peace. His too is an essay in existential 
confusion, in the living perplexity of the soul in via. 

There there is the “casuistry of the eyes” theme central to the “donna 
gentile” chapters of the book (XXXV-XXXIX). Having suffered first the denial 
and then the death of Beatrice, Dante aspires at last to a fresh sense of love as 
disposition rather than as acquisition. But straight away he is challenged by a 
new and compassionate presence, by a “noble lady” whose bearing reminds him 
of Beatrice and who thus offers a way back, a means of recovery (“onde molte 
fiate mi ricordava de la mia nobilissima donna, che di simile colore si mostrava 
tuttavia” XXVI.1). In part he acquiesces, but acquiescence is shot through by 
remorse, and by a fierce condemnation of his eyes as treacherous, as seeking 
always to fall back on the empirically verifiable: 


onde molte volte me ne crucciava nel mio cuore ed aveamene per vile assai. Onde pit 
volte bestemmiava la vanitade de li occhi miei, e dicea loro nel mio pensero: “Or voi 
solavate fare piangere chi vedea la vostra dolorosa condizione, e ora pare che vogliate 
dimenticarlo per questa donna che vi mira; che non mira voi, se non in quanto le pesa 
de la gloriosa donna di cui piangere solete; ma quanto potete fate, ché io la vi pur 
rimembrerd molto spesso, maladetti occhi, ché mai, se non dopo la morte, non 
dovrebbero le vostre lagrime avere restate. 

(VN XXXVI. 1-2) 


This is Augustine’s predicament in the Confessions; for he too suffers 
bereavement and, with it, a desire to retreat into the securities of the past. 
Grieved by the death of his “first friend,” the anonymous companion of his 
earliest years as a teacher of rhetoric in Hippo, he cast about him for some 
continuing sign of his presence. He looked for him everywhere: “expectabant 
eum undique oculi mei,” and, like Dante, he became a prisoner of the eyes, 
dependent upon them for every satisfaction: 


6 “Where then is evil? What is its origin? How did it steal into the world? What is the root and 
seed from which it grew? Can it be that there simply is no evil? If so, why do we do fear and 
guard against something which is not there? . . . Where, then, does evil come from if God made 
all things and, because he is good, made them good too?. . . Can it be that there was something 
evil in the matter from which he made the universe? When he shaped and ordered this matter, did 
he leave in it some part which he did not convert to good? . . . These were the thoughts which I 
tured over in my unhappy mind, and my anxiety was all the more galling for the fear that death 
might come before I had found the truth.” 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 365 


Quo dolore contenebratum est cor meum et quidquid aspiciebam mors erat. Et erat mihi 
patria supplicium et paterna domus mira infelicitas, et quidquid cum illo 
communicaveram, sine illo in cruciatum immanem verterat. Expectabant eum undique 
oculi mei, et non dabatur; et oderam omnia, quod non haberent eum, nec mihi iam 
dicere poterant: “Ecce veniet’”’, sicut cum viveret, quando absens erat. 


(Conf. IV. 4.9)7 


Here too, then, is evidence of Augustine’s presence in Dante of the Vita 
nuova, a presence verified, not casually, at points of passing narrative interest, 
but strategically, at points of ideological responsibility, in those moments 
confirming in and through the narrative the book’s meaning or sententia. And so 
it goes on, other motifs fulfilling the same purpose, the same dual ideological- 
imaginative function: so, for example, the “sweetness cannot fail” motif of 
Confessions 11.1 (for Vita nuova XVIII.4); or the “number nine” motif of 
Confessions 111.11 (for Vita nuova XXIX and elsewhere); or the “new song” 
motif of Confessions IX.3 and 4 (for Vita nuova XVIII.6-9); or the “clarification 
of the vision” motif of Confessions III.11 (for Vita nuova III.15). At each stage, 
Augustine is there, encouraging Dante, not only in a distinctive pattern of 
thought (in the notion of self-recovery through self-transcendence), but in the 
imaginative means whereby this pattern of thought might be proposed and 
celebrated. 

But it is not only the Vita nuova that testifies to the presence of the 
Confessions in Dante. So also does the “middle period” Convivio, the only work 
of Dante’s to cite the Confessions by name: “L’altra é quando, per ragionare di 
sé, grandissima utilitade ne segue altrui per via di dottrina; e questa ragione 
mosse Agustino ne le sue Confessioni a parlare di sé, ché per lo processo de la 
sua vita, lo quale fu di non buono in buono, e di buono in migliore, e di 
migliore in ottimo, ne diede essemplo e dottrina, la quale per si vero testimonio 
ricevere non si potea” (I.ii.14). Important, for example, for the “brotherhood of 
all men” passage of Convivio 1.1.8. is Confessions XI.2.3 (“quoniam non mihi 
soli aestuat, sed usui vult esse fraternae caritati”),® and, for the “‘steadfastness in 
God” passage of Convivio III.1i.7, Confessions IV.12, IV.16 and VIII.1 on the 
firm establishment of the created in the Creator. The “God beyond all space” 
passage in Convivio IL.iii.11 may owe something to Augustine at VI.3.4 (“sed 


u “My heart grew sombre with grief, and wherever I looked I saw only death. My own country 
became a torment and my home a grotesque abode of misery. All that we had done together was 
now a grim ordeal without him. My eyes searched everywhere for him, but he was not there to be 
seen. I hated all the places that we had known together, because he was not in them and they 
could no longer whisper to me ‘Here he comes!’ as they would have done had he been alive but 
absent for a while.” 

8 «1 wish also that it may serve the love I bear to others.” 


366 John Took 


ubique totus es et nusquam locorum es”),? and the cosmic order passage of 
Convivio III.iii.1-11 is certainly indebted to the famous “spiritual gravity” 
chapter of the Confessions (XIII.9), Dante’s favourite chapter in the book. Most 
intriguing of all, however, is Dante’s debt to Augustine as he describes his 
chancing in bereavement upon the works of Cicero. Following the death of 
Beatrice, he explains in Convivio II.xii.3-5, he beheld in Cicero and Boethius 
the surpassing beauty of philosophy, the beauty of the love of wisdom 
immanent in, and issuing from, God: 


E udendo ancora che Tullio scritto avea un altro libro, nel quale, trattando de 
l’Amistade, avea toccate parole de la consolazione di Lelio, uomo eccellentissimo, ne 
la morte di Scipione amico suo, misimi a leggere quello. . . . E si come essere suole 
che l’uomo va cercando argento e fuori de la ’ntenzione truova oro, lo quale occulta 
cagione presenta, non forse sanza divino imperio; io, che cercava di consolarme, 
trovai non solamente a le mie lagrime rimedio, ma vocabuli d’autori e di scienze e di 
libri; li quali considerando, giudicava bene che la filosofia, che era donna di questi 
autori, di queste scienze e di questi libri, fosse somma cosa. 

(Conv. II.xii.3-5) 


Likewise Augustine in Confessions III.4: 


et usitato iam discendi ordine perveneram in librum cuiusdam Ciceronis, cuius 
linguam fere omnes mirantur, pectus non ita. Sed liber ille ipsius exhortationem 
continet ad philosophiam et vocatur Hortensius. Ile vero liber mutavit affectum 
meum et ad te ipsum, domine, mutavit preces meas et vota ac desideria mea fecit alia. 
Viluit mihi repente omnis vana spes, et immortalitatem sapientiae concupiscebam 
aestu cordis incredibili. . .. Quomodo ardebam, Deus meus, quomodo ardebam revolare 
a terrenis ad te. . . . Apud te est enim sapientia. Amor autem sapientiae nomen 
graecum habet philosophiam, quo me accendebant illae litterae. 

(Conf. I11.4.7.8)!° 


— where discernible too is an anticipation of the “truth dreamily perceived” 
motif of Convivio II. xii. 4 (“quasi come sognando, gia vedea, si come ne la 
Vita nuova si pud vedere”), of the “etymology of philosophy” passage of 
Convivio III.xi.5, and of the great “assimilation of the soul to God” passage of 
Convivio III. xiv. 6 (“e cosi face a questo amore amare; ché la sapienza, ne la 


9 “You are everywhere, and everywhere you are entire. Nowhere are you limited by space.” 

“The prescribed course of study brought me to a work by an author named Cicero, whose 
writing nearly everyone admires, if not the spirit of it. The title of the book is Hortensius and it 
recommends the reader to study philosophy. It altered my outlook on life. It changed my prayers 
to you, O Lord, and provided me with new hopes and aspirations. All my empty dreams suddenly 
lost their charm, and my heart began to throb with a bewildering passion for the wisdom of 
eternal truth. . .. My God, how I bumed with the longing to have wings to carry me back to you, 
away from all earthly things. . . . For ‘yours is the wisdom’! In Greek the word ‘philosophy’ 
means ‘love of wisdom,’ and it was with this that the Hortensius inflamed me.” 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 367 


quale questo amore fére, etterna é”). 

Even the De vulgari eloquentia, responsive more to the De doctrina 
christiana than to the Confessions, recalls the latter here and there — in, for 
example, the “language learnt from those around” passage of I. i. 2 (cf. Conf. I. 
8), or in the “changeability of the times” passage of I. ix. 6 (cf. Conf. III. 7). 
But more important is the Commedia, where, as in the Vita nuova, 
reminiscences abound. Take, for instance, for the beginning of the /nferno, the 
“barred by beasts” image of Confessions VII. 21: 


Et aliud est de silvestri cacumine videre patriam pacis et iter ad eam non invenire et 
frustra conari per invia circum obsidentibus et insidiantibus fugitivis desertoribus 
cum principe suo leone et dracone. 

(Conf. VII.21.27)!! 


— where present too is the notion of a goal sighted but frustrated in its 
accomplishment by the treacherous spirits of (to go by the gloss of Confessions 
IX.13) force and fraud. Or take, as prefiguring Dante’s summons to authenticity 
in the figure of Virgil, the following passage from XII.10, where the voice of 
God, likewise calling Augustine from spiritual exile, is barely heard through the 
— in Pusey’s resonant translation —- “‘clamourings of the enemies of peace”: 


Erravi et recordatus sum tui. Audivi vocem tuam post me, ut redirem, et vix audivi 
propter tumultus impacatorum. 
(Conf. XII.10.10)!2 


Again, details differ; where in Dante it is a question of Virgil’s voice being 
hoarse through long silence (“per lungo silenzio parea fioco” Jnf. I. 63), in 
Augustine it is one of God’s voice being lost in the tumult. But the leading idea 
is the same. It is a matter of numbness, of a forgetfulness only faintly 
responsive to the call of conscience. Or take the “divine initiative” motif 
represented by the Virgin’s dismay and by the commissioning of Virgil by 
Beatrice in Inferno I1.58-114. Here again the scenario is perfectly Augustinian, 
perfectly in keeping with the concern and supplicatory role of Monica in 
Confessions III.11: 


Et misisti manum tuam ex alto et de hac profunda caligine eruisti animam meam, cum 
pro me fleret ad te mea mater, fidelis tua, amplius quam flent matres corporea funera. 
Videbat enim illa mortem meam ex fide et spiritu, quem habebat ex te, et exaudisti 


11 «Tr is one thing to descry the land of peace from a wooded hilltop and, unable to find the way 
to it, struggle on through trackless wastes where traitors and runaways, captained by their 
prince, who is lion and serpent in one, lie in wait to attack.” 

12 «1 wandered away, but I remembered you. I heard your voice at my back, calling me to retum, 
though I was scarcely able to hear in the uproar raised by those who would not live at peace with 
you.” 


368 John Took 


eam, domine, exaudisti eam nec despexisti lacrimas eius, come profluentes rigarent 
terram sub oculis eius in omni loco orationis eius: exaudisti eam. 
(Conf. 1II.11.19)!3 


— an image rehearsed with an if anything still firmer sense of Augustine as prey 
to the forces of irrationality in V.9: 


ubi erat exaudiebas eam et ubi eram miserebaris mei, ut recuperarem salutem corporis, 


adhuc insanus corde sacrilego. 
(Conf. V.9.16)!4 


Then, still as far as the Inferno is concerned, there is the “firm foot” motif 
of Conf. VI.11.18 (‘“Figam pedes in eo gradu, in quo puer a parentibus positus 
eram”)!5 for Inferno 1.30 (‘si che ’1 pit fermo sempre era 1 pit basso”); the 
“bishop commissioned by Monica” motif of Confessions III.12 for Inferno 11.49 
ff. (Beatrice’s charge to Virgil); the “offended against your justice” motif of 
Conf. V.2 for the “Giustizia mosse” clause of Inferno III.4; the “winds of 
lustfulness” motif of Confessions V1.11.20 for the “bufera infernal” imagery of 
Inferno V; the “what they should not they would not” passage of IX.8.17 (“non 
liberet quod non deceret’”) for “libito fé licito” in Inferno V.56; the “remembrance 
of joy in sadness” passage of Confessions X.21.30 (“ideo tristis gaudium 
pristinum recolo”) for the “Nessun maggior dolore” passage of Inferno V.121-23; 
and the “I broke your lawful bounds” (“excessi omnia legitima tua”) motif of 
11.2.4 for the “folle volo” passage of Inferno XXVI.125S ff. 

And what applies to the Inferno applies too to the other two cantiche, some 
images — such as that of the “two souls” image of Purgatorio IV.5-6 (Conf. 
VIII.10 prin.) or the “caught between two desires” image of Paradiso IV.1-6 
(Conf. VIII.10 ult.) — witnessing to a passing “memoriabilita” of the text, but 
others bearing on the moral and psychological substance of Dante’s discourse; so 
— to pass over for the moment a number of parallel passages for the Purgatorio, 
to which we shall return — the “memoria” and “trasumanar” theme of Paradiso 
I.7-9 and 70 (Augustine: “Transibo et hanc vim meam, quae memoria vocatur, 
transibo eam, ut pertendam ad te, dulce lumen” Conf. X.17.26);1® the “God 


13 «Bur you sent down your help from above and rescued my soul from the depths of darkness 
because my mother, your faithful servant, wept to you for me, shedding more tears for my 
spiritual death than other mothers shed for the bodily death of a son. For in her faith and in the 
spirit which she had from you she looked on me as dead. You heard her and did not despise the 
tears which streamed down and watered the earth in every place where she bowed her head in 
prayer. You heard her... .” 

14 «Where she was you listened to her prayers, and where I was you had mercy on me, so that I 
e paeiy my bodily health, though my blasphemous heart was still diseased.” 

15 «1 shall fix my foot firmly on the step where my parents set me as a boy.” Freccero, “The 
Firm Foot on a Joumey without a Guide” (Dante: The Poetics of Conversion 29-54). 

16 «T shall go beyond this force that is in me, this force which we call memory, so that I may 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 369 


stooping to our humility” passage of Paradiso VII.92-102 (Augustine: “per 
humilitatem domini Dei nostri descendentis ad superbiam nostram” Conf. 
I.11.17);!7 the simultaneity of form and matter passage of Paradiso XXIX.25-32, 
a restatement of Augustine’s “together you fashioned them” passage in 
Confessions XIII.33 (“quia eius informitatem sine ulla temporis interpositione 
formasti’”);!® and the final vision sequence of Paradiso XXXIII, with its leading 
sense of a truth as yet transcending the faculties of the subject. Thus Dante’s: 


Qual é ’] geometra che tutto s’affige 
per misurar lo cerchio, e non ritrova, 
pensando, quel principio ond’elli indige, 

tal era io a quella vista nova: 
veder voleva come si convenne 
l’imago al cerchio e come vi s’indova; 

ma non eran da cid le proprie penne: 
se non che la mia mente fu percossa 
da un fulgore in che sua voglia venne. 

A l’alta fantasia qui manco possa; 
ma gia volgeva il mio disio e ’1 velle, 
si come rota ch’igualmente @ mossa, 

l’amor che move il sole e ]’altre stelle. 
(Par. XXXIII.133-45) 


and Augustine’s: 


sed aciem figere non evalui et repercussa infirmitate redditus solitis non mecum 
ferebam nisi amantem memoriam et quasi olefacta desiderantem, quae comedere 
nondum possem. 

(Conf. VII.17.23)'9 


But reminiscences are reminiscences, and may or may not be significant. 
That is not the case, however, with Dante and the Confessions, for Augustine’s 
text, far from being an object of casual reminiscence, does three things in Dante. 
First, and with respect to the early phase of activity represented by the Vita 
nuova, it secures his understanding of the quintessentially Christian notion of 
self-recovery through self-loss. Secondly, and with respect still to the Vita 
nuova, it encourages and provides a model for the idea of literary reconstruction, 
of the text as witness to an order of experience duly resolved and proposed as an 


come to you, my Sweetness and my Light.’ 

17 “Our Lord, who humbled himself and came down amongst us proud sinners.” 

18 «for there was no interval of time before you gave form to this formless matter.” 

19 «But I had no strength to fix my gaze upon them. In my weakness I recoiled and fell back into 
my old ways, carrying with me nothing but the memory of something that I had loved and 
longed for, as though I had sensed the fragrance of the fare but was not yet able to eat it.” 


370 John Took 


object of contemplation. Thirdly, and with respect now to the mature phase 
represented by the Commedia, it sharpens his sense of the existential quality of 
heaven and hell, of what it is actually to live out — as distinct from merely 
understanding — the states of estrangement and of reconciliation. 

Let us take first, then, the notion of self-loss and of self-recovery, 
contemplated by Dante of the Vita nuova in the Confessions of Augustine. 
What, fundamentally, is the Vita nuova about? It is, basically, an essay in 
philosophical and technical resolution. Philosophically, it is a question of 
redefining love in terms of acquisition rather than of disposition. Dante, 
conscious of the ambiguities inherent in the lyric tradition within which he is 
working, begins with a conception of love as receipt, as a coming into 
possession of the world for the purposes of self-satisfaction. But love, thus 
understood, is doomed to frustration. Dependent for its well-being on the 
concession of others, it will sooner or later end in despair; hence the 
manceuvering, the calculating, the opportunism, and, beneath it all, the fear, the 
perplexity, and the pain of the early chapters of the book, up to and including 
Chapter XVI. Dante’s conception of love is not equal to the crises besetting it. It 
is fragile and unstable, and very soon, with the episode of the gabbo, it shows 
itself for what it is, bankrupt and forlorn. What, then, is the solution? The 
solution is a recasting of the whole idea of love in terms of openness to, of self- 
subordination and, ultimately, of self-transcendence. In loving in the new way, 
the lover not only receives, but is “taken up into”; he is lost in, and intimately 
refashioned by, the greater good beyond, his whole being henceforth enjoying a 
new Stability, a new and unshakable rootedness in that same good — this, on the 
technical level, issuing in a new purity of style, in a way of writing verse 
marked by a fresh sense of rhetorical integrity. The Vita nuova, then, is about 
two things: philosophically, it is about the remaking, through grace (the grace 
represented in this case by the miraculous presence of Beatrice) of the old in the 
light of the new, while technically it is about the issuing of new understanding 
in a new song. 

And that too is what the Confessions is about. The Confessions, as we 
learn from the opening chapters (the chapters on how the author might be said to 
confess to the One in and through Whom he already is), is an essay in the 
regrounding of the conscious self in the transcendent principle of its being, in 
the greater good beyond. It is an essay in intimate self-recovery, in identifying 
and laying claim to the deep rationality of that being. Until this is accomplished, 
the individual is perilously vulnerable. Established at the centre of his universe, 
he is at the mercy of every passing anxiety. Ostensibly free, he is hostage to the 
forces of fear and, ultimately, of annihilation. Proudly self-sufficient, not 
confronted even so by the awful possibility of his own non-being, he lives a life 
of anger, frustration, perplexity and despair. Open, by contrast, to the “greater 
good beyond,” to the transcendent principle of his being, that being is henceforth 
rooted securely in God, fear — both contingent fear and the ontological fear 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 371 


lurking within it — being taken up in a new spiritual certainty and peace of 
mind. This, at any rate, was what Dante of the Vita nuova saw in the 
Confessions. What he saw and appreciated there — superbly confirmed in 
passages such as the following from Confessions IX.4 — was the experience of 
resolution, the triumphant taking up of the many in the one, of the difficult and 
opaque in the lucid and accessible, of proximate in ultimate concern: 


Ibi enim, ubi mihi iratus eram, intus in cubili, ubi compunctus eram, ubi 
sacrificaveram mactans vetustatem meam et inchoata meditatione renovationis meae 
sperans in te, ibi mihi dulcescere coeperas et dederas laetiam in corde meo. Et 
exclamabam, legens haec foris et agnoscens intus nec volebam multiplicari terrenis 
bonis devorans tempora et devoratus temporibus, cum haberem in aeterna simplicitate 
aliud frumentum et vinum et oleum. 

(Conf. IX.4.10)2° 


Everything that Dante needs for his own solution — misgiving in conscience 
and dissatisfaction with the tired round of contrivance and solicitation, the 
embracing of a new, sweet way, a new fullness of heart and of voice — is there 
in Augustine, passionately proposed as an object of celebration. There in the 
Confessions he was able to contemplate Augustine’s own discovery of new life, 
the drastic volte-face of spiritual energy whereby he too aspired to a new plane of 
properly human being. 

But that is not all, for the Vita nuova is a book, a libello, a literary-spiritual 
autobiography having about it the virtue of expressive economy. Far from 
randomly cumulative, it is intimately structured, answering at every point to a 
design announced by Dante in the first paragraph: 


In quella parte del libro de la mia memoria dinanzi a la quale poco si potrebbe leggere, 
si trova una rubrica la quale dice: Incipit vita nova. Sotto la quale rubrica io trovo 
scritte le parole le quali é mio intendimento d’assemplare in questo libello; e se non 
tutte, almeno la loro sentenzia. 

(VN 1) 


Dante will be a scribe, copying out from the book of memory the salient 
features of his experience so far. His method, he says in Chapter II (taking up as 
he does so the “se non tutte” motif of Chapter I), will be selective. Not 
everything will be copied out, but only key paragraphs, certain items of 


20 “Burt it was in my inmost heart, where I had grown angry with myself, where I had been stung 
with remorse, where I had slain my old self and offered it in sacrifice, where I had first proposed 
to renew my life and had placed my hope in you, it was there that you began to make me love you 
and had made me glad at heart. It was my eyes that read these words but my soul that knew their 
meaning . They brought a cry to my lips and I wished no more for the manifold riches of the 
earth, things on which I should lose time, only to be lost in time myself. For in eternity, which 
is one alone, I had other com and wine and oil.” 


372 John Took 


particular importance: “e trapassando molte cose le quali si potrebbero trarre de 
l’essemplo onde nascono queste, verrd a quelle parole le quali sono scritte ne la 
mia memoria sotto maggiori paragrafi” (VN II.10). Passages such as this — and 
to them we might add the “desisting from the details” passage of XXVIII.2 (“E 
avvegna che forse piacerebbe a presente trattare alquanto de la sua partita da noi, 
non é lo mio intendimento di trattarne qui per tre ragioni. . . .”) — are decisive 
for the interpretation of the book. They matter for the way we read it; for straight 
away the historical is transformed into the confessional. What counts, Dante is 
saying, is the inner substance of his discourse, the intimate and all-transcending 
meaning or sententia accounting for and signified by the historical. And this too 
is the case with the Confessions, where, in terms distinctly anticipatory of Dante 
in the Vita nuova, Augustine confirms his literary strategy, his selectivity and 
editorial prerogative; so for example, the memory motif of II.7.15 (“‘Quid 
retribuam domino, quod recolit haec memoria mea et anima mea non metuit 
inde?”)?! or the “memory as arranged under specific headings” motif of X.8.13 
(“Ibi sunt omnia distincte generatimque servata”).” So too the “Sed ecce omitto 
illud tempus: et quid mihi iam cum eo est, cuius nulla vestigia recolo?” passage 
of Confessions 1.7.12,73 or Augustine’s own “maggiori paragrafi” motif: 


Nam et multa praetereo, propter quod propero ad ea quae me magis urguent confiteri 
tibi, et multa non memini. 
(Conf. I11.12.21)24 


Et quando mihi sufficiat tempus commemorandi omnia magna erga non beneficia tua 
in illo tempore praesertim ad alia maiora properanti? 
(Conf. 1X.4.7)25 


Each passage testifies, not to the casual annotation of experience, but to 
purposeful intervention, to an act of reinterpretation. Augustine’s aim, like 
Dante’s, is to elicit meaning, to trace within the apparently contingent an inner 
signficance, a principle of unity. Not only ideologically, then, but structurally 
too the Confessions is exemplary. Not only does it suggest an idea — a 
particular kind of moral-existential solution to the question of love — but it 
confirms the notion of the book as the means to orderly self-intelligibility. 


21 «What retum shall I make to the Lord for my ability to recall these things with no fear in my 
soul?” 

22 «Tp memory everything is preserved separately, according to its category.” 

23 “But I will say no more about that time, for since no trace of it remains in my memory, it 
need no longer concern me.” 

24 «there is much besides this that escapes my memory and much too that I must omit, because I 
am in haste to pass on to other things, which I am more anxious to confess to you.” 

25 “But time could never suffice for me to set down on paper all the great blessings which you 
bestowed upon me, particularly at that time, since I must hurry on to tell of greater things.” 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 373 


Literarily, as well as philosophically, it is an indispensable point of departure. 

But it is in the Commedia that Dante’s by now long pondering on the 
substance of Augustine’s testimony bears its full fruit, for it was through the 
Confessions that Dante came to appreciate the structures of estrangement and of 
reconciliation, the qualis est or quality of being and of not being in God. 
Something of this has emerged from our review of parallel passages, for few of 
them are marginal to the existential question proper. Now, however, though 
without any claim to exhaustiveness, the point must be developed. Consider, to 
begin with, the following passages from the Inferno: 


Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita 
mi ritrovai per una selva oscura, 
ché la diritta via era smarrita. 

Ahi quanto a dir qual era é cosa dura 
esta selva selvaggio e aspra e forte 
che nel pensier rinova la paura! 

Tant’é amara che poco é pit: morte; 
ma per trattar del ben ch’i vi trovai 
dird de |’altre cose ch’i v’ho scorte. 

To non so ben ridir com’i v’ intrai, 
tant’era pien di sonno a quel punto 
che la verace via abbandonai. 

Ma poi ch’i’ fui al pié d’un colle giunto, 
la dove terminava quella valle 
che m’avea di paura il cor compunto, 
guardai in alto e vidi le sue spalle 
vestite gia de’ raggi del pianeta 
che mena dritto altrui per ogni calle 

Ed una lupa, che di tutte brame 
sembiava carca ne la sua magrezza, 

e molte genti fé gia viver grame, 
questa mi porse tanto di gravezza 

con la paura ch’uscia di sua vista, 

ch’io perdei la speranza de |’ altezza. 

E qual é quei che disvuol cid che volle 
e per novi pensier cangia proposta, 
si che dal cominciar tutto si tolle, 

tal mi fec’io ’n quella oscura costa, 
perché, pensando, consumai la ’mpresa 
che fu nel cominciar cotanto tosta. 
(Inf. 1.1-18; 49-54; II.37-42) 


These passages come from that part of the poem frequently regarded as 
representative of an early and primitive stage of Dantean allegorism, its dark 


374 John Took 


wood, its sunlit mountain, and its three beasts smacking of metaphor pure and 
simple, of the plain either/orness of poets’ allegory. And maybe they do. But 
what they do too is to confirm beyond all doubt, and as a preface to Dante’s 
undertaking as a whole, his insight into the structures of self-loss, of the 
desperate plight of the soul as adrift from itself and from God. Straight away, the 
emphasis is on fear, on the anxiety engendered, not by this or that object of 
casual encounter, but by the prospect of nothingness, of ceasing to be as a 
creature of reasonable self-determination: “che nel pensier rinova la paura! / 
Tant’é amara che poco é pit morte.” The dominant mood is that of concern and 
of perplexity. How he came to be in this situation, Dante is unable to say (“Io 
non so ben ridir com’i v’intrai”). It is a matter, not of choice or of deliberation, 
but of a kind of inertia, of a kind of inveterate drowsiness which has numbed the 
faculties of seeing, understanding, and choosing (‘“tant’era pien di sonno a quel 
punto / che la verace via abbandonai”). Progress, therefore, is fitful. For a 
moment, fear is quietened (“Allor fu la paura un poco queta” 1.19), but the 
resurgence of old habits of mind plunges the pilgrim once more into confusion 
and fear (“questa mi porse tanto di gravezza / con la paura ch’uscia di sua vista”), 
and finally into despair (‘ch’io perdei la speranza de |’altezza”), into the absolute 
experience of self-loss and of hopelessness from which, short of grace, there is 
no exit or resurrection. True, the voice of authentic being still calls (Dante’s 
encounter with Virgil), but even this is frustrated by indecision and by a 
stubborn perversity of the will (“E qual @ quei che disvuol cid che volle / e per 
novi pensier cangia proposta”). The soul is at odds with itself. Threatened by the 
multiplicity of its own possibilities, it is dispersed and fragmented, 
pathologically torn apart by its own inner forces. Far from primitivism, 
therefore, from a preliminary and gauche exercise in moralistic allegory, these 
opening cantos of the Jnferno are as sophisticated an essay in existential 
desperation as one could wish for. And — this is the point — it is an essay 
rooted in Dante’s meditation on the Confessions, for each detail, each nuance, 
each insight into the complexities of estrangement, is registered by Augustine. 
Each stage of the argument, each successive emphasis, is there in the 
Confessions for Dante to consider and to make his own. Take, for instance (for 
the “I know not how I came to be here” motif of Inferno 1.10), Confessions 1.6: 


Quid enim est quod volo dicere, domine, nisi quia nescio, unde venerim huc, in istam 
dico vitam mortalem an mortem vitalem? 
(Conf. 1.6.7)? 


— or this from VIII.5 for the “inexplicable drowsiness” motif of Inferno 1.11 


(“tant’era pien di sonno a quel punto”): 


26 “For what I would say, Lord, is that I do not know how I came into this dying life, or should I 
say, living death?” 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine S75 


Ita sarcina saeculi, velut somno assolet, dulciter premebar, et cogitationes, quibus 
meditabar in te, similes erant conatibus expergisci volentium, qui tamen superati 
soporis altitudine remerguntur. 

(Conf. VIII.5.12)”7 


— or these passages from III.11, VII.3, and VIII.8 for the “reaching out and 
slipping back” motif of Inferno 1.36 (“ch’i fui per ritornar piii volte volto”) and 
59-60 (“‘che, venendomi ’ncontro, a poco a poco / mi ripigneva 14 dove ’! sol 
tace”): 


Nam novem ferme anni secuti sunt, quibus ego in illo limo profundi ac tenebris 
falsitatis, cum saepe surgere conarer et gravius alliderer, volutatus sum... . 
(Conf. T11.11.20) 


Itaque aciem mentis de profundo educere conatus mergebar iterum et saepe conatus 
mergebar iterum atque iterum. 
(Conf. VII.3.5) 


Nam non solum ire, verum etiam pervenire illuc nihil erat aliud quam velle ire, sed 
velle fortiter et integre, non semisauciam hac atque hac versare et iactare voluntatem 
parte adsurgente cum alia parte cadente luctantem. 

(Conf. VIII.8.19)78 


— or the following passage from XIII.21 on the anarchic forces of the soul, in 
Augustine as in Dante allegorized in the form of three beasts: 


Nolite conformari huic saeculo, continete vos ab eo. Evitando vivit anima, quae 
appetendo moritur. Continete vos ab immani feritate superbiae, ab inerti voluptate 
luxuriae et a fallaci nomine scientiae, ut sint bestiae mansuetae et pecora edomita et 
innoxii serpentes. Motus enim animae sunt isti in allegoria: sed fastus elationis et 
delectatio libidinis et venenum curiositatis motus sunt animae mortuae. . . . 

(Conf. X1I.21.30)29 


27 «tp fact I bore the burden of the world as contentedly as someone bears a heavy load of sleep. 
My thoughts, as I meditated upon you, were like the efforts of a man who tries to wake but 
cannot and sinks back into the depths of slumber.” 

28 «For nearly nine years were yet to come during which I wallowed deep in the mire and the 
darkness of delusion. Often I tried to lift myself, only to plunge the deeper . . .”; “I tried to raise 
my mental perceptions out of the abyss which engulfed them, but I sank into it once more. 
Again and again I tried, but I always sank back.” “But it must be a resolute and whole-hearted act 
of the will, not some lame wish which I kept tuming over and over in my mind, so that it had to 
wrestle with itself, part of it trying to rise, part falling to the ground.” 

29 “Do not be conformed to the world, but keep yourselves intact from it. The soul lives when it 
avoids the things which it is death to seek. Keep yourself intact from the savage monster pride, 
from the sloth and the sensual pleasures of lust, and from quibbling knowledge, that is, 
knowledge only in name, so that the beasts may be tamed, the herd broken in, and the serpents 


376 John Took 


— or this from XII.10 for the “hoarse and barely heard voice of reason” motif in 
Inferno 1.63 (“chi per lungo silenzio parea fioco”): 


Audivi vocem tuam post me, ut redirem, et vix audivi propter tumultus impacatorum. 


(Conf. X1I.10. )3° 


— or the following lines from VIII.10 on the Augustinian experience of willing 
and not willing at one and the same time, vital for the indecision passage of 
Inferno 11.37-39: 


Ego cum deliberabam, ut iam servirem domino Deo meo, sicut diu disposueram, ego 
eram, qui volebam, ego, qui nolebam; ego eram. Nec plene volebam nec plene 
nolebam. Ideo mecum contendebam et dissipabar a me ipso. 

(Conf. VIII.10.22)31 


— or, finally, the desperate “cut off from the light” motif of X.41, with its near- 
despairing sense of the soul as destined to loss: 


Vidi enim splendorem tuum corde saucio et repercussus dixi: quis illuc potest? 
Proiectus sum a facie oculorum tuorum. 
(Conf. X.41)?2 


And here, in the dreadful “Proiectus sum a facie oculorum tuorum” clause of this 
passage, is the central point, the chief focus and interest of Dante’s encounter 
with Augustine of the Confessions; for, in a way Dante was particularly fitted 
by circumstance to appreciate, the Confessions is a study in exile, in the notion 
of the spirit as free-floating, as cut off from the ground of its being, from its 
rootedness in the transcendent I AM of God. It is, as the first chapter with its 
apology for the whole enterprise suggests, a search for security, for the 
grounding of the contingent in the absolute, of the partial and precarious in the 
total and unqualified (“quia fecisti nos ad te et inquietum est cor nostrum, donec 
requiescat in te”). And it is a search which takes Augustine, as Dante after him, 


be made to lose their sting. For these creatures are impulses of the soul under the figure of 
allegory. But the arrogance of pride, the pleasures of lust, and the poison of vain curiosity are 
the impulses of a soul that is dead.” 

30 «T heard your voice at my back, calling me to return, though I was scarcely able to hear in the 
uproar raised by men who would not live at peace with you.” 

31«When I was trying to reach a decision about serving the Lord my God, as I had long intended 
to do, it was I who willed to take this course and again it was I who willed not take it. It was I and 
I alone. But I neither willed to do it nor refused to do it with my full will. So I was at odds with 
myself. I was throwing myself into confusion.” 

32 “For in my wounded heart I saw your splendour and it dazzled me. I asked: Who can come 
close to such glory? I am cast away from the sight of your eyes.” 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 577 


into the depths of human possibility, into the structures of “dissimilitude” 
(Conf. VII.10) of which the conditions portrayed in the Jnferno — the conditions 
of anger, irresolution, enervation, renunciation, and restlessness — are but the 
phenomena, the manifest outworking. 

And the same applies to the Paradiso, where it is the Confessions that 
determines in Dante’s mind the structure and phenomena of reconciliation, of the 
grounding of the discrete being of this or that individual in the I AM of God. At 
the root of the individual’s experience in the state of reconciliation or 
“similitude” is a conscious continuum of the surface and of the deep reasons of 
his being. No longer central to his own universe (and thus pro Deo, in the place 
of God), but in function of the being by which he is transcended (and thus 
propter Deum or for the sake of God), he is no longer preoccupied by the 
ontological fear generated by the objects of casual encounter, by the nagging 
sense of imminent nothingness. He is equilibrated, centered, and secure in his 
sense of the immanence of the human in the divine and of the divine in the 
human, this being the sense of Dante’s triumphant conclusion to the Paradiso, 
where the pilgrim spirit sees imprinted in the circularity of the divine light the 
effigy of man: 


Quella circulazion che si concetta 
pareva in te come lume reflesso, 
da li occhi miei alquanto circunspetta, 
dentro da sé, del suo colore stesso, 
mi parve pinta de la nostra effige: 
per che *] mio viso in lei tutto era messo. 
(Par. XXXII1.127-32) 


Here at last is conscious communion, the final cause and point of arrival of all 
endeavour. The how of this miraculous coincidence of the human and the divine 
is lost on Dante (lines 133-36), but it confirms in its accomplishment the whole 
process, as traced in the Paradiso, of man’s moving into God, of his “indiarsi” as 
Dante puts it at IV.28. And the phenomena or evidence of this moving into God 
are the classical Pauline and Augustinian phenomena of peace and of joy, of the 
peace which stands at the opposite pole from existential restlessness, and of the 
joy which stands at the opposite pole from existential despair. Texts abound, but 
the following, for peace and for joy respectively, are typical: 


E ’n la sua volontade é nostra pace: 
ell’ quel mare al qual tutto si move 
cid ch’ella cria o che natura face. 
(Par. TII.85-87) 


Qual é coliii che sognando vede, 
che dopo ’] sogno la passione impressa 


378 John Took 


rimane, e |’altro a la mente non riede, 
cotal son io, ché quasi tutta cessa 

mia visione, e ancor mi distilla 

nel core il dolce che nacque da essa. 

(Par. XXXIII.58-63) 


Both are faithful transcriptions of Augustine, the first of the exquisite “in your 
good pleasure lies our peace” (“In bona voluntate pax nobis est”) of Confessions 
XIII.9.10, and the second of Augustine’s “The voices flowed into my ears, and 
the Truth distilled in my heart” (“voces illae influebant auribus meis et 
eliquabatur veritas in cor meum”) in Confessions IX.6.14. The point is clear. 
Controlled and directed by a sense of being in and through THAT WHICH IS — 
Augustine’s “id quod est” (Conf. VII.17.23) — the pilgrim spirit, doomed 
otherwise to loss and perplexity, is suffused by a new stillness and radiance, by 
an exultation which, as with God Himself in His joy, is both static and ecstatic, 
both contained and — as in the “‘si che dispiega le bellezze etterne” passage of 
Paradiso VII.64 ff. — overflowing. This, too, then, Dante contemplated in the 
Confessions, where the experience of being in God had been defined and 
celebrated with the great bishop’s customary combination of deep understanding 
and fervour. 

But there is more, for Dante’s theology, like Augustine’s, is the theology of 
becoming. It focuses, not simply, nor ever primarily, on the nature of God in 
Himself (the whole enterprise thus resolving itself in an act of understanding), 
but on the notion of oneness with God as existential possibility, as one of the 
two pr.iacipal ways of being for man — the other way being that of 
estrangement from God. It entails, over and above the act of understanding, the 
act of commitment, the risk and irrationality of choice; hence, in Dante, the 
purposefulness of the whole undertaking. There is no time to be lost. There can 
be no dallying over past distractions, no waylaying of the spirit by pleasures apt 
to detain and to divert it. All instead is dedication, Dante’s concept of human 
experience flowing characteristically into the categories of struggle and of 
arduous ascent. And this too is something he contemplated in Augustine. 
Complementing the authentically Augustinian sense of heaven and hell, of pax 
and gaudium on the one hand and of destitution and despair on the other, is a no 
less authentically Augustinian sense of the purgatorial character of human 
experience, of the way in which the individual is called on to assert himself over 
himself; so, for example, the “path of devotion” passage in Confessions III.8 
(where prominent too is the eminently Dantean notion of real and unreal liberty): 


Et ea fiunt, cum te derelinqueris, fons vitae, qui es unus et verus creator et rector 
universitatis, et privata superbia diligitur in parte, unum falsum. Itaque pietate humili 
reditur in te et purgas nos a consuetudine mala et propitius es peccatis confitentium et 
exaudis gemitus conpeditorum et solvis a vinculis, quae nobis fecimus, si iam non 
erigamus adversum te cornua falsae libertatis avaritia plus habendi et damno totum 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 379 


amittendi, amplius amando proprium nostrum quam te, omnium bonum. 
(Conf. TII.8.16)34 


— or this from VIII.1 on the straitness of the way and the difficulty of 
purgation: 


nec certior de te, sed stabilior in te esse cupiebam. De mea vero temporali vita 
nutabant omnia et mundandum erat cor a fermento veteri; et placebat via ipse salvator 
et ire per eius angustias adhuc pigebat. 

(Conf, Viil.1.1)>4 


Nothing, then, is facile. Authentic being in God has to be fought for, and the 
process is painful. It is as difficult as personality is knotty and convoluted. But 
— and here too Dante is wholly at one in understanding and emphasis with the 
great bishop — if the way is difficult, then the act of acknowledgement that 
facilitates the way, that opens up the possibility of being in God, brings with it 
a miraculous unburdening of the spirit. Entering at last into an understanding of 
its own condition, into a sense of (outside God) its desperate contingency, the 
soul is freed. The hitherto frozen and impervious complex of anger, guilt and 
despair melt in a movement of contrition and gratitude. Dante, at this point, is 
more than ever eloquent: 


Si come neve tra le vive travi 
per lo dosso d’Italia si congela, 
soffiata e stretta da li venti schiavi, 
poi, liquefatta, in sé stessa trapela, 
pur che la terra che perde ombra spiri, 
si che par foco fonder la candela; 
cosi fui sanza lagrime e sospiri 
anzi ’| cantar di quei che notan sempre 
dietro a le note de li etterni giri; 
ma poi ch’i’ ’ntesi ne le dolci tempre 
lor compatire a me, pili che se detto 
avesser: “Donna, perché si lo stempre?” 
lo gel che m’era intorno al cor ristretto, 


33 «This is what happens, O Fountain of Life, when we abandon you who are the one true Creator 
of all that ever was or is, and each of us proudly sets his heart on some one part of your creation 
instead of on the whole. So it is by the path of meekness and devotion that we must return to 
you. You rid us of evil habits and forgive us our sins when we confess to you. You listen to the 
groans of the prisoners, and free us from the chains we have forged for ourselves. This you do 
unless we toss our heads against you in the illusion of liberty, and in our greed for gain, at the 
risk of losing all, love our own good better than you yourself, who are the common good of all.” 
34 «1 did not ask for more certain proof of you, but only to be made more steadfast in you. But in 
all my wordly life all was confusion. My heart had still to be rid of the leaven that remained. The 
way of our Saviour I liked well enough, but it irked me still to follow its narrow path.” 


380 John Took 


spirito e acqua fessi, e con angoscia 
de la bocca e de li occhi usci del petto. 
(Purg. XXX.85-99) 


— and again in the following canto: 


Come balestro frange, quando scocca 
da troppo tesa, la sua corda e l’arco, 
e con men foga |’asta il segno tocca, 
Si scoppia’ io sottesso grave carco, 
fuori sgorgando lagrime e sospiri, 
e la voce allentd per lo suo varco. 
(Purg. XXX1.16-21) 


But his eloquence is thoroughly Augustinian in spirit. Augustine, who himself 
had known the faltering voice of confession (Conf. VIII.12.28: “apparebat sonus 
vocis meae iam fletu gravidus”),?> had also known the euphoric sense of spiritual 
release, the unspeakable sensation of tension resolved: 


Ubi vero a fundo arcano alta consideratio traxit et congessit totam miseriam meam in 
conspectu cordis mei, oborta est procella ingens ferens ingentem imbrem lacrimarum. 
. .. Ego sub quadam fici arbore stravi me nescio quomodo et dimisi habenas lacrimis, 
et proruperunt flumina oculorum meorum, acceptabile sacrificium tuum... . 

(Conf. VIII.12.28)3° 


In this sense too, then, Dante contemplated the substance of his own discourse 
in the Commedia avant la lettre of Augustine. Not only in respect of heaven and 
hell, but of the arduousness — and the blessedness — of the struggle, Augustine 
had been there before, identifying with perfect precision the how of being and 
becoming in God. 

All in all, then, there is a good deal to say about Dante and the Confessions 
— much more, certainly, than has been said here. But from what has been said, 
two points emerge. The first is that the Confessions was with Dante throughout 
his career, from the time of the Vita nuova through to the Paradiso, and that it 
was there helping him to give intelligible form to what amounts to his own 
successive apologiae pro vita sua. In the young Dante, it encouraged a resolution 
of the long-standing question of love in terms of radical self-transcendence, of a 
reaffirmation of self in terms, not of acquisition (the greeting of his lady), but of 
the greater good beyond, of the miraculous presence now made manifest — and 


35 “the sound of my voice seemed choked with tears.” 

36 “T probed the hidden depths of my soul and wmung its pitiful secrets from it, and when I 
mustered them all before the eyes of my heart, a great storm broke within me, bringing with it a 
deluge of tears. . . . I flung myself down beneath the nearby fig tree and gave way to the tears 
which now streamed from my eyes, a sacrifice acceptable to you.” 


Dante and the Confessions of Augustine 381 


this in the form of a “book,” of a carefully considered act of literary 
reconstruction. To that extent, the Confessions is an essential part of the Vita 
nuova’s pre-history. Its courage in the selection, organization and analysis of 
events — quite unlike anything else in romance or even in Latin literature — 
owes everything to Augustine’s own exemplary essay in self-organization. But 
more than that, it was through the Confessions that Dante came to understand, 
to sympathise with, and dramatically to project the structures in this or that 
individual of being and non-being, of existential triumph and tragedy. It is 
difficult to overstate the importance of this, since the Commedia, for all its 
anagogy, has ultimately to be understood as an enquiry into the form and content 
of present consciousness, of the struggle here and now for a more consummate 
humanity. True, it has, at the literal level, to do with the state of souls after 
death pure and simple (“status animarum post mortem simpliciter sumptus,” as 
the letter to Can Grande has it). But implicit in Dante’s prophetic portrayal of 
the state of souls after death, is a meditation on present possibility, on the 
possibility of heaven and hell as forms of present awareness. The mind is 
focused ultimately, not on the otherworldly, but on the immediate and 
concurrent, on the dominant structures of awareness here and now. And the result 
of that focusing on the here and now is — on a quite astonishing scale — 
disclosure, a laying bare, for all to contemplate, of the hell, purgatory, and 
paradise of the present moment. That, at any rate, is what Dante perceived in the 
Confessions, and it is what, with prodigious imaginative power, he chose in his 
poem to explore under the aspect of eternity. In this sense, Augustine, far from 
being a mere authority, was part of what Dante was. Augustine’s theology — a 
theology which (like all great theology) resolves itself in the question, not of 
God in Himself, but of God in relation to man and of man in relation to God — 
was a theology which Dante entered, appropriated, and verified from within, from 
the point view of one himself astray in the region of unlikeness. As with 
countless others, the great bishop was an ever-present part of his own essentially 
confessional conscience. 


University College, London 


Works Cited 


Augustine, Saint. Confessions. Trans. R. S. Pine-Coffin. London: Penguin, 1961. 

. Sancti Augustini Opera, Pars I.1. Ed. L. Verheijen OSA. Corpus 
Christianorum, Series latina XXVII. Turnhout, 1981. 

Corti, M. Dante a un nuovo crocevia. Firenze: Sansoni, 1982. 

. La felicita mentale: nuove prospettive per Cavalcanti e Dante. Torino: 

Einaudi, 1983. 








382 John Took 


Courcelle, P. Les Confessions de Saint Augustin dans la tradition littéraire. Paris: 
Etudes Augustiniennes, 1963. 
. Recherches sur les Confessions de saint Augustin. Paris: Editions E. 
Boccard, 1968. 
Foster, K. The Two Dantes. London: Darton, Longman and Todd, 1977. 
Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. R. Jacoff. Cambridge: Harvard 
UP, 1986. 
Gilson, E. Dante and Philosophy. 1939. New York: Harper and Row, 1963. 
Nardi, Bruno. Saggi di filosofia dantesca. 1930. Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 1967. 
. Nel mondo di Dante. Roma: Edizioni di “Storia e letteratura”. 1944. 
. Saggi e note di critica dantesca. Milano: Ricciardi, 1966. 
O’Connel, R.J. St. Augustine’s Confessions: The Odyssey of the Soul. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1969. 
O’Meara, J. J. The Young Augustine. New York: Alba, 1954. 


























| eengh ie erecamemeel ‘i od 


vy i mm iy. ih 
aia an eid nie lirigpticstesd bes tig, onerrs 
AO} Bs md ei herges Dame with walentying 
Peres. Perc B eh ye netien 


aS ia 's way of Anyite, goreetbingy! 1¢ tiatitaster 
ein OOM Ried bis above), Which bs item epee vod 
vine. wd ofer@aplticily, as ha prpediog (ht tice: comme. Bie 
or pect han Pat, Vive ocwes't ty Ale) OF gelthcal deepal Geadots ora hy © ih 
puree, beta Fr <n asics boy Qari CWleu corm talc ears, aye ts Sur 
Myo ore yo 10h: rhe pn er (amber ee Eee ra 
he hateata crea oie hy ince EY eel arb! Neda tan TINY 
set a8 de Gencw vent Id andi Mae Sebi Hite 2 aby 






nell Bdiw Glan wae SeeHY ely fat RiaglttiSe 
faery Sa banter hire: BODE abit sig 
Saritiadeiile DARA Aeolun Oee por pha Tr vithss Satis 


RARE) eR wiry Why ado or at as ee inelrhat Dkke aE 2 
6 Reagboend to tnefoisino ans Wo Cinperrgbak, yen nt .crxet mintycrae gen) 
fi aa Mindat chen. esa Mn RAs 8 i i nh age 
Giobeaehy serps Leow qr oe RA A EOS a’, GPa) alee | 
REG WOUS Wi trite tear outs AMA dnibase “elt eis 
sahara thant rad Ore Yon he Ho BO nt he "elie vie Mirec > 
munienouettity at ; i chin HAA ae "rc a ge SP Aebetiety een th 
HART ia Goad “io rt sti Lodi reaindtiga rt ‘int! whe 
pehirestuemeen SL eo em 
Pacts apap irises: “seer We SS Bhs dehatt tt hhh ee nie 
Chaveex se! TH li ¢heivee 
tlasvensisys aie dood insst e ralyl ahaa .siqmens wl poe 
“ald ina” ott ys mee 1hOne Of yuna) Atte qe!) atomic 


bor poe ged Worsece al ote vil a tl scion tanigunll Jevigetate «‘anns( 
) yew done.) pitincts 0 ue meqabe. Ghat par MinLaper tle tegin Ws wa ete fy 
po cian apd ub Amy bt) ohuabetyrt 6 Ruumrphllanuennge Untogesient oko 
; pure toa 1yae) wie nape odnccgm=amaia gap inne menbile a thot 
me esa abjptpes x50 rhe wa Apne etn he "ROR ered Lane 


* et, 10 WIRMH A. A) re ae Wh ligne eeciatis ad 
r' “gh dan)s embed bt ‘gan Kenbety CaS oe . 








" Des ey suis toa Yeenny! Qpcild Mone, ad sepbiinaibdlss sted, ey ger orth 
TOT xiv aig ah foe ¥ un oe ve abl oe leg tine 





capa. 





7 


& 


R. A. Shoaf 


“Dante in ynglyssh”: 

The Prologue to the Legend of Good Women 
and Inf. 13 

(Chaucer and Pier della Vigna) 


1 


J. L. Lowes, J. S. P. Tatlock, F. N. Robinson, Paul Ruggiers, Howard Schless, 
William Stephany, Janet Smarr, Richard Neuse, Winthrop Wetherbee, Lisa 
Kiser, Karla Taylor — these are the names of just some of the American 
scholars in the twentieth century (there are many others) who (I among them) 
have been fascinated by Chaucer’s encounter with Italy’s “sommo poeta.” If we 
come together in this volume to study Dante and modern American criticism, we 
can augment and refine such study by considering this tradition (not an 
inappropriate term, in my judgment) of American criticism of Dante, for it is, 
especially now in the latter part of the century, as much criticism of Dante as it 
is criticism of Chaucer. In fact, as the most recent work suggests, American 
fascination with Chaucer’s reading of Dante is also American anxiety over a way 
of getting some purchase on Dante, his enormous influence and universal fame 
‘-ecall Ruskin’s claim: “. . . the central man of all the world, as representing in 
perfect balance the imaginative, moral, and intellectual faculties, all at their 
highest, is Dante” 3:158). Almost as if the American appetite for iconoclasm, in 
literary criticism too, needed a fama and a fortuna of the magnitude of Dante’s to 
satisfy it. 

Hence, for example, Karla Taylor’s recent book. She systematically 
contrasts Dante with Chaucer to erect Chaucer the “anti-Dante”: 


Dante’s analogical, liturgical universe is unified by the Incarnation then, now, and 
always, as it is repeated each year in the Paschal season and in the life of each person 
who undergoes conversion; and it is possible to describe (or at least to circumscribe) 
such a universe and such a conversion in the incarnational language of the Commedia. 
Chaucer, however, shows the ideal of transcendent experience reported in language to 
be attainable only inauthentically — that is, as a figment of reified desire. His 
analogies are optative; and showing this painful gap between desire and fulfillment in 
the experience of his characters, he cannot blind himself to the same gap, and the 
same pain, in his own poetic efforts. . .. We cannot live retrospectively — forward, 
as it were, from death. We can only write retrospectively. Dante’s poem, by holding 
out such large promise, increases the anguish of the human condition for those who 
do not follow him. Better to remain silent, as Paul did, since the rest of us are not 
likely to be “‘stellyfyed” as yet. The elusive reward in limiting poetry so that it does 


| 
| 


“Dante in ynglyssh” 385 


not encompass final things is Chaucer’s “compassioun.” 
(202-3) 


But in creating Chaucer the “anti-Dante,” she becomes implicated in the same 
schematism (and, finally, idealism, too) as she charges Dante with embodying 
and indulging. Repeatedly, she organizes her argument as a diptych or binarism 
in which an analysis of Dante’s way of saying something is contrasted 
immediately by Chaucer’s (as in the example above), which is thus expressed, 
always implicitly and often explicitly, as the superior (because formally the 
later) of the two. The result is a kind of critical formalist evolutionism by which 
Chaucer, because he can react to Dante (who could not, of course, react to Dante, 
at least in the same way) is able to better Dante (and be better than Dante — 
note how Chaucer does not “blind” himself when, by implication, Dante does). 
Although a feminist motive may figure here, and perhaps, too, an anti- 
Existentialist motive (“We cannot live retrospectively — forward, as it were, 
from death”), there is also, I suspect, a resistance, typically American, to Euro- 
centrism (if not also to phallocentrism), with Chaucer as the insular (English) 
counter-weight to Euro-centrism — the European, in other words, on the margin 
of Europe. 

If American iconoclasm and pragmatic idealism figure in studies of 
Chaucer’s reading of Dante, we can gain at least partial understanding why such 
is the case by considering what I have come to believe to be among Chaucer’s 
most sophisticated intertextual encounters with Dante, or the response to 
Inferno, canto 13, the episode of Pier della Vigna, in the Prologue to the Legend 
of Good Women. In the second part of this paper, I will sketch in the outline of 
this response, and then, in the third and concluding part, extrapolate some further 
reflections on modern American criticism of Dante as reflected in the study of 
Chaucer and Dante. 


2 


Readers of the Prologue to the Legend of Good Women (I will use the G 
version, commonly reckoned the later of the two, and I quote the text in The 
Riverside Chaucer) have long been aware of crucial citations of Dante by 
Chaucer (Schless 150-57). The most vivid is Chaucer’s brilliant translation of 
Pier della Vigna’s memorable characterization of envy (/nf. 13.64-66): 


‘Envye — I preye to God yeve hire myschaunce! — 
Is lavender in the grete court alway, 

For she ne parteth, neyther nyght ne day, 

Out of the hous of Cesar: thus seyth Dante. 

(G 333-37) 


386 R. A. Shoaf 


Previous studies, however, have not located this extraordinary translation in its 
larger context, which, I will argue, is actually the intertext between Inferno, 
canto 13, and the Prologue. 

To isolate the intertext, we need initially to remind ourselves of certain key 
features of Inferno, canto 13. In the episode of Pier della Vigna, Dante offers a 
critique of authority and belief (Mazzotta 188-89). Ironically, since ultimately 
Virgil is the primary object of this critique, it is he who initiates it when he 
says to the pilgrim: “‘si vederai / cose che torrien fede al mio sermone’” (Inf. 
13.20-21). And the poet subsequently emphasizes the critique with his famous 
aside on the uncertainty of belief: ““Cred’io ch’ei credette ch’io credesse’” (Inf. 
13.25). Dante examines here his own reliance on the authority of Virgil and puts 
in question the transmission or “translatio” of tradition (“traditio”), suggesting in 
the structure of the episode, especially in the extended figure of breaking or 
rupture, that every “traditio” is in a way also a betrayal (“tradere”). When Dante 
breaks Pier, the tree that Pier now indwells, he also breaks Virgil’s text, but this 
proves to be the only means for continuing, hence preserving, Virgil’s text 
(beyond what Virgil in any sense “intended”). 

Chaucer in the Prologue is likewise concerned with authority, his own in 
particular, especially as it is questioned and challenged by the God of Love; 
moreover, he is also obviously concerned with the problematics of translation, 
with the question of “mis-saying” (G 323), as the God of Love disapprovingly 
calls it (Shoaf, “Medieval Studies” 77-80). Just so, I want to suggest, Chaucer 
appropriates from Inferno, canto 13, the structure of poetic tradition as 
interruption. He involves Dante in his text, I think, to point obliquely to the 
problematic necessity of betrayal, “mis-saying,” in translation, which puts into 
question original “intention.” 

In particular, the “keye of remembraunce” (G 26), or “olde bokes,” Chaucer 
opposes to the “chiavi” (Inf. 13.58) which Pier tells Dante and Virgil he held for 
Frederick the Great (in an obvious caricature of St. Peter): “‘Io son colui che 
tenni ambo le chiavi / del cor di Federigo’” (Inf. 13.58-59 [and see Stephany 
195, 209-10]). No one to my knowledge has ever stressed the close homology 
between Dante’s keys and Chaucer’s “keye.” The tendencies to assume that 
Chaucer did not read Dante very closely or fluently and that, what he did read he 
largely disliked and rejected, have deflected earlier studies from considering that a 
quotation in one place in a work may be connected to systems of quotation or 
allusion throughout the work: if Chaucer cites Dante or another author at a given 
place, it does not automatically follow that the citation is local only — it may 
be the tip of the iceberg of a much more extensive system of citations or 
allusions. 

Hence, for example, where Pier della Vigna, Frederick’s secretary, opened 
and closed the emperor’s heart in a strictly private, secretive way — "le volsi, / 
serrando e diserrando, si soavi, che dal secreto suo quasi ogn’uom tolsi” (Inf. 
13.59-61) — Chaucer, through his narrator, imagines oppositely (but therefore 


“Dante in ynglyssh” 387 


relatedly) a key of remembrance available to every literate person, to use, 
furthermore, in communal and consensual as well as private ways: 


And if that olde bokes weren aweye, 
Yloren were of remembrance the keye. 
Wel oughte us thanne on olde bokes leve, 
There as there is non other assay by preve. 
(G 25-28) 


From such a position Chaucer can suggest that “opening” the past, though it 
must also involve partly “closing” the past, since the individual’s own 
interpretation will interrupt other interpretations, can still produce a translation 
that subsumes in a shared communal discourse the betrayal, the rupture, in every 
tradition. If every poet only interrupts the tradition as he continues it — indeed, 
if every poet must interrupt it in order to continue it — he can nevertheless 
make that rupture textual in his poetry, not secretive, so that he, and we, his 
readers, are always aware of it; and if we are aware of it, that awareness sutures 
the rupture even as the translation, the betrayal, produces it. Writers and readers, 
in this sense, are always exchanging their roles in the production of the text. 
This is the “keye of remembraunce,” defined in part by its difference from Pier 
della Vigna’s keys. 

Both Inferno 13 and the G Prologue are stories of the crisis of identification 
through literary mediation. Neither protagonist, Dante the pilgrim or Chaucer 
the Narrator, recognizes or knows the real — the spirit of Pier della Vigna in the 
tree, in one case, or Alceste the queen, in the other — until he is referred back to 
a text, to Aeneid 3, the story of Polydorus, by Virgil, in Dante’s case, or the 
book at home in Chaucer’s chest by the God of Love, in Chaucer’s: 


“S’elli avesse potuto creder prima 
cid c’ha veduto pur con la mia rima, 
non averrebbe in te la man distesa.” 
(Inf. 13.44-49) 


"Wostow,” quod he,” wher this be wif or mayde, 
Or queen, or countesse, or of what degre, 

“Nay, sire, so have I blys, 
No more but that I se wel she is good.” 
“That is a trewe tale, by myn hood!” 
Quod Love, “and that thow knowest wel, parde, 
Yif it be so that thow avise the. 
Hast thow nat in a bok, lyth in thy cheste, 
The grete goodnesse of the queene Alceste, 
That turned was into a dayesye; 


388 R. A. Shoaf 


She that for hire husbonde ches to dye, 

And ek to gon to helle rather than he, 

And Ercules rescued hire, parde, 

And broughte hyre out of helle ageyn to blys?” 
And I answerede ayen, and seyde, “Yis, 

Now knowe I hire." 

(G 487-88; 493-506; my emphasis) 


Only by means of the detour through the text does each perceive and learn with 
whom or what he is dealing. Then Dante can believe suicides become twisted 
trees and Chaucer can recognize the daisy Alceste the queen. Hence the solution, 
it seems to me, to the notorious crux (The Riverside Chaucer 1065) of the 
Narrator’s failure to identify Alceste, even though she had earlier named herself 
(G 422), when the God of Love asks him if he knows who she is. It is not that 
the Narrator did not hear and does not remember but that he does not recognize 
her because his experience of her, his assay, has not yet been assimilated to the 
appropriate authority, or boke(s): as soon as his experience is assimilated to the 
boke(s), however, he can and does immediately exclaim ““Yis, / Now knowe I 
hire.’” The real, in other words, is always already literary; the text is prior to 
experience. Perhaps more important: the real, in these cases understood as the 
phenomena present to the protagonists in their stories, is incredible and 
unintelligible until and unless it is interrupted by the detour through literature. 
The real is locked until opened by the “keye of remembraunce” or that reading-as- 
writing and writing-as-reading that Chaucer figures as the “old book” lying in a 
chest somewhere. 

To be even more precise (and to demonstrate Chaucer’s close attention to 
Inferno 13): the real is a certain style. Spitzer long ago showed the close 
connection in Inferno 13 between style and theme. Pier della Vigna, Frederick’s 
logothete (Mazzoni 247) or chancellor, speaks, as in life he wrote, like a twisted 
vine or gnarled tree-trunk: 


L’animo mio, per disdegnoso gusto, 
credendo col morir fuggir disdegno, 
ingiusto fece me contra me giusto. 
(Inf. 13.70-72) 


He who in his earthly career was a “word-fixer” (the etymological sense of 
logothete) now fixes words in a place where his words fix him, forever. “This 
hopeless entanglement in a verbal thicket” (Spitzer 98) is usefully contrasted to 
Chaucer’s Alceste’s speech. She also speaks like her plant, the daisy (which, let 
us remember, is Chaucer’s addition to the Alceste legend [Robinson 846; The 
Riverside Chaucer 1065]). Herself a kind of suicide, dying voluntarily for her 
husband (though rescued from Hades by Hercules), Alceste’s style is intercessory 
and conciliatory, or, to use Chaucer’s pun fully, like the “day’s eye”: 


“Dante in ynglyssh” 389 


For syth no cause of deth lyth in this cas, 

Yow [Cupid] oughte to ben the lyghter merciable; 
Leteth youre yre, and beth somwhat tretable. 

(G 395-97) 


Hence, the narrator is able to say, having heard her intercession: “‘I se wel that 
she is good’” (like the “day’s eye”). 

But the Narrator cannot recognize Alceste, cannot re-cognize her, any more 
than Dante can believe a tree-trunk can speak, until the style is re-inserted into 
its text — until, that is, the text of the real (which is thus the real text) is 
located (cf. Allen 271-75). Because the real is a certain style, in order to 
recognize the real, it is necessary that the text of the real, where its style 
emerges, be available and accessible. (Hence, incidentally, the need for old 
books: many styles, many realities, have passed from experience.) Whether in 
Heaven or Hell or on the earth, whether waking or dreaming, the real 
presupposes the text, believe it or not. 

But, just so, the text is always already interrupted and interrogated. Chaucer 
defends himself at one point against the God of love’s condemnations of his 
writings by saying: 


“what so myn auctour mente, 
Algate, God wot, yt was myn entente 
To forthre trouthe in love... 

... this was my menynge.” 
(G 460-64) 


At such a moment, Chaucer too is interrupting the tradition just by continuing 
it: this was my meaning, he says. Like Dante, Chaucer understands that to 
continue the tradition is to interrupt it, to break it, if in no other way, then 
simply by being a later poet who reads the tradition as himself. “Pure” 
transmission, repetition, mediation, translation — all are impossible (even as 
pure perception is impossible): time has elapsed, and in this time difference 
(mutability) has altered the possibility of the “same” words recurring. Pure 
transmission is not an option for humans. For us, transmission is always a 
detour, tradition always a handing over (even as perception is already a 
construction). 

Virgil’s explanation to Pier as to why he told Dante the pilgrim to break the 
twig implies that Dante the pilgrim should have known what he was hearing, in 
whose presence he was: 


“S’elli avesse potuto creder prima 


cid c’ha veduto pur con la mia rima, 


390 R. A. Shoaf 


non averrebbe in te la man distesa; 
ma la cosa incredibile mi fece 
indurlo ad ovra ch’a me stesso pesa.” 
(Inf. 13.44-51) 


Dante the pilgrim was reluctant to textualize the real, Virgil says, because he did 
not believe, had too little faith in the Aeneid. Access to experience is through 
the text, Virgil is implying — the text, even when it is incredible, is prior if not 
also primordial. We are always slow to credit this because we want to be 
original, we want to do it ourselves, my way. We resist learning that my way is 
always another’s way, too — Style is ever imitative. 

Clearly, too, Dante the pilgrim did not suffer a lapse of memory; Virgil 
strongly implies that he remembered but did not credit. It is hard to credit that 
the real is always already a certain style, embedded in its text. Breaking the twig, 
then, repeats the text (Aeneid 3, the story of Polydorus) so as to prove its 
credibility, experience its credibility, but this very probation depends on the 
incredibility of the text. More, it establishes the incredibility of the text, and the 
text must be thus broken in order to be passed on: Virgil is passed on only by 
being proven to be incredible (or credible only in hell). The premise of 
credibility is the question even as the premise of tradition is intervention — the 
tradition must be handed over, the believable must be interrogated. 

At stake in all this for both Chaucer and Dante, I think, is a world mediated 
by authority. More than moderns can ever appreciate, Dante and Chaucer lived in 
a world of textual aprioris and the apriori text (or Scripture). Not that they did 
not doubt, worry, err, misjudge, etc., but that all their human emotions arose 
from the world of the text and the text of the world. So great, then, must the 
need to credit have been and yet so conflicting must the authorities have seemed 
that not to question or test or try would have seemed not faith but naive 
credulity; it would have been tantamount to Pier putting all his fede in Federigo 
(Inf. 13.62-63). Hence the tone of the famous opening of the Prologue to the 
Legend of Good Women: since “by assay ther may no man it preve” (line 9), 
since so much cannot be proved by experience, since so little offers itself to 
“assay” (and since when it does it only returns us circuitously to a text) “than 
mote we to bokes that we fynde” (17). But just because in this deficiency, we 
“must to books,” then we must also question the books, even as Chaucer the 
Narrator implies he does when he answers the God of Love’s charges: “‘this was 
my menynge.’” Not to question would be not credit, not faith, but echoing or 
parroting or machine-like reiteration, mere copying of another’s style. Credit or 
faith, on the contrary, starts from “breaking” the text, interrupting it, asserting 
one’s own style; and just how thoroughly Chaucer learned this lesson from 
Dante we can measure by enumerating the times Dante’s text is credited and 
interrogated, broken and reconstructed in Chaucer’s poetry. 

When Dante made poetry the content of poetry, I would like to conclude this 


| 
| 


| 


“Dante in ynglyssh” 391 


part of my argument now, he also made — inevitable result — the structure of 
language newly visible and newly problematic. The fin’ amors poets had written 
about poetry, too, yes, but Dante made poetry the content of vernacular poetry 
that was also about the redemption of individual subjectivity (which is not the 
same thing as the salvation of the soul). This was to implicate the redemption of 
individual subjectivity in the structure of language and its problematic, defined 
most generally as the problematic of differentiation. To write a line, for 
example, such as Dante writes in Paradiso, canto 9, like 


“perché non satisface a’ miei disii? 
Gia non attendere’ io tua dimanda, 
s'io m'intuassi, come tu t’inmii.” 
(Par. 9.79-81; my emphasis) 


— which literally reads, “if I could me in-you as you you in-me” — is both to 
stretch language to its limits (some might say beyond its limits) and to inscribe 
the self’s imbrication in those limits, the limits of (in)differentiation. 

When Chaucer (and the Gawain-poet, too, as I have argued elsewhere, 
“Purgatorio and Pearl” 152-68) encountered Dante’s texts, they were, I think, 
confronted as poets with a radicalness heretofore unimaginable: they saw, 
through and in Dante, the self as the self-of-language; before they saw anything 
else, I am arguing, they saw that a person comes to him or herself not just in 
but as language. (Here, it has always seemed to me, is the genius of Dante’s “mi 
ritrovai": he “comes to himself” by “finding himself” in a linguistic and 
rhetorical inventio — trovare is the Italian equivalent of Latin invenire [Shoaf, 
Dante, Chaucer, and the Currency of the Word 49].) Language is the limit of the 
self, although a limit always to be transgressed and interrupted. To say, which 
would be a way of putting it, that Dante for Chaucer (and for the Gawain-poet) 
was the equivalent of Jacques Lacan is doubtless to utter a claim not likely to 
please everyone; but I will risk the displeasure of some in order to insist on the 
revolutionary event I am trying to describe. 

Before Dante, genre determined and constrained the representation of 
subjectivity in poetry; with Dante (pace Fineman 1985 and 1987) and after him, 
the representation of subjectivity comes to determine and constrain genre. 
Dante’s poetry liberates the representation of subjectivity from the constraints of 
genre and locates it in, and ultimately at the limits of, language itself (and 
vernacular language at that, let us not forget); there such representation generates 
that sense of the historically real, the “irreducible dove” (Singleton 129), that has 
fascinated readers of Dante from the beginning. Only in Dante and his “novel of 
the self,” as Freccero calls it (Dante: A Collection of Critical Essays 4), do the 
aprioris of allegory recede to make way for the emergent self that knows itself as 
the self-of-language (or, though this is a less precise way of putting it, as the 
self-in-history). And only Dante, not even Jean de Meun, closest to Dante in this 


392 R. A. Shoaf 
matter of all medieval poets, could have taught Chaucer to say in poetry: 


“Sufficeth me, as I were ded, 

That no wight have my name in hond. 
I wot myself best how y stonde; 

For what I drye, or what I thynke, 

I wil myselven al hyt drynke, 
Certeyn, for the more part, 

As fer forth as I kan myn art.” 

(House of Fame 3.1876-82) 


This is Chaucer’s voice, here in the House of Fame, at its most intimately 
Dantesque: through his art Chaucer will be who he is, through his language he 
will be the individual subject Geoffrey Chaucer (he does not need his name 
inscribed in the House of Fame — although precisely for that reason he will be 
famous). 

Until and unless we understand and concede this Dantesque inflection in 
Chaucer’s voice, we will continue to underestimate the debt of Chaucer’s poetry 
to Dante’s. We will continue to oppose content to content — Christian 
visionary versus uncertainly Christian skeptic — and miss (or is it perhaps 
evade?) the far more radical structural relationship: that both poets are common 
shapers of the structure of language for the redemption of individual subjectivity. 
They are the first European poets (though Chaucer in this is Dante’s pupil) to 
learn how in poetry to say, “I am,” and it is thus that they inaugurate the 
European tradition of poetry. 


3 


Chaucer was something of an iconoclast also (we have known this for a long 
time and others have remarked it before). Clearly, too, Chaucer resisted Dante 
and became finally a different poet from Dante. But I do not believe, as my 
remarks in the conclusion of part 2 indicate, that he is the “anti-Dante.” Nor do I 
believe he is the medieval English Virgil Winthrop Wetherbee wants to posit, 
always seeking and sighing after “a scintilla of essential human significance to 
which the poet can respond in full confidence” (43). Either of these Chaucers, 
and many others posited today, it seems to me, are characters in the current 
iconoclastic scenario of evading and, in some cases, suppressing Dante’s 
exquisite and relentless discriminatory imagination — they are players in the 
game of getting a Dante without the damn. As such, however, they seem to me 
less real and less true than the actual Chaucer who knew full well that you 
cannot have Dante without the damn. 

Chaucer as a reader of Dante was simply too strong and clear to make such a 
mistake. Richard Neuse perhaps expresses the mattcr best when he observes, 


“Dante in ynglyssh” 393 
what I believe Chaucer also saw, that in Dante 


the sinners . . . have condemned themselves before the bar of their own conscience by 
the very sin they have consciously embraced, which through a kind of repetition 
compulsion continues to torment them. 

(MS p. 12; author’s emphasis) 


Dante’s discriminatory imagination, Chaucer could see, is less involved in 
“putting people in hell” than in realizing a discourse that describes where in hell 
people have already put themselves. Current efforts to detheologize Dante, like 
current efforts to fashion a purely humanist Chaucer, are alike implicated in a 
resistance to judgment itself, predicated, I suspect, on a revulsion from 
Christianity. Christianity, indeed, has a lot to answer for — the ruthless 
repression of women and the mindless rape of the environment at the top of the 
list — but if we are going, as the slogan has it, to “always historicize” (though I 
myself do not say we must), then we should not, I think, be so feckless and 
inauthentic as to deny that Chaucer like Dante was a Christian and a Christian 
also possessed of a profoundly discriminatory imagination. 

That he invented and employed a different discourse for those discriminations 
I do not for a moment wish to deny. Chaucer is not Dante (although I agree with 
Neuse that the Canterbury Tales are much more closely similar to the Comedy 
than most have hitherto realized). But that Chaucer could have invented and 
employed his own discourse without the precedent and the intervention of Dante 
I do vigorously deny. There is more of Dante in Chaucer than most readers are 
currently willing to admit. In fact, there is in Chaucer at least this much of 
Dante, that if Chaucer is not Dante, Dante taught Chaucer not, and how not, to 
be Dante. 


University of Florida 


Works Cited 


Allen, Judson B. The Ethical Poetic of the Later Middle Ages: A Decorum of 
Convenient Distinction. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 1982. 
Benson, Larry, gen. ed. The Riverside Chaucer. Cambridge: Houghton Mifflin, 1987. 
Caesar, Michael. Dante: The Critical Heritage. London: Routledge, 1989. 
Enciclopedia dantesca. 6 vols. Roma: Istituto della Enciclopedia Italiana, 1970-78. 
Fineman, Joel. Shakespeare's Perjured Eye: The Invention of Subjectivity in the 
Sonnets. Berkeley: U of California P, 1985. 
. “Shakespeare’s Will: The Temporality of Rape.” Representations 20 
(1987): 25-76. 
Freccero, John, ed. Dante: A Collection of Critical Essays. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: 


394 R. A. Shoaf 


Prentice Hall, 1965. 

. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. and introd. Rachel Jacoff. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1986. 

Kiser, Lisa. Telling Classical Tales. Ithaca: Comell UP, 1983. 

Leupin, Alexandre. Barbarolexis: Medieval Writing and Sexuality. Trans. Kate M. 
Cooper. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1989. 

Lowes, J. L. “Chaucer and Dante.” Modern Philology 14 (1917): 705-35. 

Lydgate, John. The Fall of Princes. Ed. Henry Bergen. EETS ES 121-124. Oxford: 
Oxford UP, 1924-27. 

Mandelbaum, Allen. Trans. The “Divine Comedy” of Dante Alighieri. New York: 
Bantam, 1980-84. 

Mazzoni, Francesco, ed. La divina commedia, “Inferno.” Con i commenti di T. 
Casini/S.A. Barbi e A. Momigliano. Firenze: Sansoni, 1979. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

Neuse, Richard. The “Canterbury Tales” as Dantean Epic: Allegory and Epic Theater. 
Forthcoming U of California P, 1991. 

Robinson, F. N. The Works of Geoffrey Chaucer. Cambridge: Houghton Mifflin, 
1957. 

Ruggiers, Paul. “Italian Influence on Chaucer” 160-84. In Companion to Chaucer 
Studies. Ed. Beryl Rowland. Rev. ed. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1979. 

Ruskin, John. The Stones of Venice. 3 vols. London: Smith, Elder, 1851. 

Schless, Howard. Chaucer and Dante: A Revaluation. Norman, Ok.: Pilgrim Books, 
1984. 

Shoaf, R. A. Dante, Chaucer, and the Currency of the Word: Money, Images, and 
Reference in Late Medieval Poetry. Norman, Ok.: Pilgrim Books, 1983. 

. “Purgatorio and Pearl: Transgression and Transcendence.” Texas Studies in 
Literature and Language 32 (1990): 152-68. 

. “Medieval Studies, Literary Theory, and the Crisis of Difference.” In 
Reorientations: Critical Theories and Pedagogies. Ed. Bruce Henricksen and 
Thais Morgan. Urbana: U of Illinois P, 1990. 77-92. 

Singleton, Charles S. “The Irreducible Dove.” Comparative Literature 9 (1957): 129- 
35. 

Spitzer, Leo. “Speech and Language in Inferno 13.” Italica 19 (1942): 81-104. (Repr. 
in Freccero. Dante: A Collection 78-101.) 

Stephany, William A. “Pier della Vigna’s Self-Fulfilling Prophecies: the ‘Eulogy’ of 
Frederick II and Inferno 13.” Traditio 38 (1982): 193-212. 

Tatlock, J. S. P. “Chaucer and Dante.” Modern Philology 3 (1905): 367-72. 

Taylor, Karla. Chaucer Reads the “Divine Comedy". Stanford: Stanford UP, 1989. 

Vergil. Aeneid. 2 vols. Ed. and trans. H. Rushton Fairclough. Cambridge: Harvard 

UP, 1935. 

Wetherbee, Winthrop. Chaucer and the Poets: An Essay on “Troilus and Criseyde.” 
Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1984. 

















Dante cml Kantorovies: Maditval alery as Art and Au:oldography 397 


fag or etn Kantorowicn idewtifest att) Dants become of what the 

XW abe fendemant:: hetwoon hie owas toad the medioval poce’s 

| seem CANViEtCHs, ~ wel idea, Gad emmlondl thuices.- Parthemor, 
Or Ht onsvatnnele sar ts Gown 


wake a ATE BE IM ea 
| tice. Phil, i ! " | i ae ae be i. 
eaeeiee 


Ait iow’ Sanaa 
excep ox a yeu cae Ae Bela SAE See ie TP 
q Semcon, Delton atl lo Nn = he comducied extensive cocserch on the 
fateliogma) lugieory oA s! Eucngt Only folowing Ariemd/nache iy 1935 
Fe) caida Bade ngs ARRAY! seit sparen BC 
EE Sve IG aria ins Wii 2b See WAP Buy Baie cL ta ets 
pee inip SA oto St bi by bid Wa es, Shite 

din henden its eneals: vedi Rodepavalissad 26 beset Beal sar nt evnve 

poh a Sea tie het ti lB at pened 7 Jlood 
q aOR IN: ANON SMPTE aE lett 8 F ostorong 
| AP a) ‘Wks ASST Ha! BOTS S Biri YDORSNN i rie eat) 
| p SesTer ta ileptal A 6c ESA EPG AP eR AWN BETO 
ORIGIN Asiteyhy orkWnngeyeseNe Ye er VS Re TGA et al tela 

hoth Dean peat: ih OVE ea a. 7 SeBES Caw HEE 
PUY vi escrn EAMY une A ib Nett Sot MEE US. 
HEP Goby ABUT Ars etnorthdte Meier Shite iA tio SURRY anbiior 
rele Palo os 70 Teei/ Hola RE hee BREMRatede docket 
a —> oferta AR4 (else HhE Be GG ines Baeaeray Ocilleie” 
HAs: Ravel eT erchopige bn nse be eT aaa wel! 
raedae eon bso naa AT) Mt eee RAS, Aisi sonal ate 

V6 Bey Sis tre «). ares Bh AHOUCE St 















ol Weg 


Bie ian 
Mi re 


Tare (i 
















prs Tat Ye 






















eee Ohi RTL cy shoe ENV nang 
Cail Beli oe tro wie A PREDO UNOS WH Leg sion rer tl ? 
+ oh hereto iv koi er nah aia th Re Yel. Bodine 


QeHehintiion satelite OW Bowaiv Ody Died ea We RANE ok Siiittiet 5.2 - 
ETRE nid tooo bus yasmnsd mi naged dotttw asso ait seotguoulT 


, Oldinclfinb ita Yio stron T Sebitl PORES | peeeaC 
, Rares aire mind ths Weimer ma Reb, Ts ee wisn 








(Scat leila remnid hostanso BAA cand Bie miseoDbachi 
Nee ao chalineivaheation in the obituary written by Palle fer Keane. a rye) 


Kay E. Schiller 


Dante and Kantorowicz: 
Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 


I do not at all mean to say that the imagination will bring future truths to light and 
that it should reign; I mean, rather that truths are already products of the imagination 
and that the imagination has always governed. It is imagination that rules, not 
reality, reason or the ongoing work of the negative. 

(Paul Veyne. Did the Greeks Believe in Their Myths? xii) 


“Kantorowicz has written a great book. Its greatness . . . results from the 
author’s erudition and his artistry.” It was upon this note of praise that W. H. 
Dunham, Jr. began his review of Kantorowicz’s last work The King’s Two 
Bodies in the 1958 issue of Speculum (550). Other readers’ opinions of the 
book, however, were less favorable, and their criticism addressed two sections of 
Kantorowicz’s study of medieval political theology. According to Norman F. 
Cantor, Kantorowicz superfluously devoted a whole chapter to Shakespeare (82), : 
while Kantorowicz’s most prominent American student, Ralph E. Giesey, 
claimed in a recent interview that both Shakespeare, who opens the book, and 
Dante, who closes it, represent arbitrary choices (Valensise 1988, p. 118). 

The purpose of my essay is to demonstrate that Kantorowicz had good 
reasons to include both the English and, more significantly, the Italian poet. The 
chapters on Shakespeare and Dante in Kantorowicz’s 1957 study can be attributed 
to the profound emotional and intellectual commitments made during his years 
as a student in Heidelberg in the 1920s — to his love and esteem for a German 
poet of the fin de siécle, Stefan George. My assessment is indebted to his 
contemporary critic Dunham. Indeed, Kantorowicz’s truths were the product of 
creative art and the expression of dispassionate erudition. While the medievalist 
drew upon the imagination of Stefan George, his work was also decisively 
nourished by notions of “disinterested” and objective scholarship in German 
academia, as Max Weber had advocated most forcefully (263-310; 311-39). 
Throughout his career, which began in Germany and took him to America in 
1939, Kantorowicz continuously espoused these two theoretically incompatible 
Strains of thought. 

Both imagination and scholarship served Kantorowicz for the appropriation 
of the past. In his work, the demands of history were always subordinated to 
those of the present. The past was used to serve life, just as Nietzsche had 
prescribed. Kantorowicz’s appropriation of history manifested itself in his 
identification with those who had eternalized history’s heroes, the poets. One of 


Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 397 


them was Dante Alighieri. Kantorowicz identified with Dante because of what he 
saw as a fundamental correspondence between his own and the medieval poet’s 
political convictions, artistic ideas, and emotional choices. Furthermore, 
Kantorowicz believed that Dante’s life resembled his own. 

Before investigating the importance of identification for Kantorowicz’s life 
and work, I shall briefly review the stages of his academic career in Germany and 
America. In 1931, after completing his studies in Heidelberg, Kantorowicz began 
teaching medieval history at the University of Frankfurt. In the following year 
he received a full professorship. In April 1933, he announced his resignation, 
courageously proclaiming that he was a Jew. However, he remained in Germany 
except for a year spent at Oxford’s New College and for occasional travels to 
France, Belgium and Italy, where he conducted extensive research on the 
intellectual history of medieval Europe. Only following Kristallnacht in 1938 
did he leave for the U.S. with the help of his friends Albrecht Graf Bernstorff and 
Helmut Kiipper. In 1939 he became a professor at Berkeley, where he stayed 
until 1950. During the anti-Communist politics of the McCarthy era at the 
University of California, he left Berkeley for the Institute for Advanced Study at 
Princeton, where he taught until his death in 1963. 

Kantorowicz came to Heidelberg after serving as a voluntary soldier in the 
German army in World War I. In July 1916 he was wounded at Verdun. This 
provided him with the opportunity to be stationed in the Ottoman Empire. 
According to Yakov Malkiel, there he had the chance to “observe at close range 
both the traditional fabric of mid-Eastern daily life and the tremendous potential 
impact of a small but superbly organized elite, such as were the Young Turks, 
amid an amorphous mass of drifters” (156).! Malkiel might be considered a 
valuable source not necessarily for Kantorowicz’s experiences in Turkey, but 
rather for how he interpreted them. They were significant in two ways: they 
convinced him to attempt to save what he perceived as the essential unity of 
Orient and Occident, Persia and Greece, Greece and Rome, Byzantium and the 
Christian Middle Ages (Valensise 1988, p. 114). Furthermore, those experiences 
were formative in terms of his self-perception as a member of an intellectual 
elite. His acquaintance with George, dating from autumn 1919, reaffirmed his 
self-image, insofar as the members of the “secret Germany” (“Geheimes 
Deutschland”) had to fulfill a mission as spiritual, if not political, leaders of the 
German people. 

In his study on the social scientists and academic humanists of the 
Wilhelmine Empire and the Weimar Republic, The Decline of the German 
Mandarins, Fritz Ringer mentions Stefan George only once (359). George and 
his disciples did not fit in Max Weber’s description of the Chinese literati, the 
mandarins. And indeed, George never became influential in that sense. Some of 
his followers, however, including Kantorowicz, obtained university positions as 


1 See a similar evaluation in the obituary written by Salin for Kantorowicz (551). 


398 Kay E. Schiller 


a result of the poet’s strategy to gain influence in the academia. For Weber, 
George’s tutelage typified one of his three types of legitimate domination — 
charismatic leadership (Lepenies 323-24, 346-47). 

George’s circle, the “secret Germany” in Heidelberg, worked like a magnet 
for members of Germany’s impatient and insecure youth, who suffered from the 
country’s recent defeat and were disoriented by the advent of democratic politics. 
This youth, not in the very least a Jewish assimilated youth, sought autonomy, 
a definition of its own tastes, and individuality (Valensise 1989, pp. 196-97). 
George’s doctrine was constructive and optimistic, calling for the restoration of 
the spiritual integrity of the individual (“das Gesamtmenschliche”). The 
alternative to a university education with the mandarins — namely, Max and 
Alfred Weber at the University of Heidelberg and their doctrine of “disinterested” 
scholarship — was the circle around George, which regarded itself as a model of 
life. To those who were longing for wholeness, in contrast to Weber’s division 
of the scientific, aesthetic, and political selves, George offered the hope of a 
renewal through art and the submission to an all-encompassing spiritual 
dictatorship. Both Weber and George seemed destined to become leaders in their 
time. Yet, only George’s invocation of art’s preeminence over objective 
scholarship attracted disciples, who preferred to be artists in the circle rather than 
solitary scientists in the universities (Lepenies 344-45). 

However, these two strains of thought were not as clearly separable as it 
may appear at first glance. In 1945, Arnold Bergstrasser, the former assistant to 
the sociologist Alfred Weber, described the intellectual climate in Heidelberg in 
the 1920s negatively as an “over-heated atmosphere of philosophical tension” 
(Presidents’ Papers 1940-1946, Box 7, Folder 8). Nevertheless, the intellectual 
environment was ultimately fruitful, providing for an exchange between scholars 
of the humanities, the social sciences, and the members of artistic circles. 
Kantorowicz was a member of George’s circle, as well as a student of the 
mandarins, such as Alfred Weber, the economist Eberhard Gothein, and the 
medievalist Karl Hampe (Kantorowicz Collection, Box 1, Folder 2). 
Accordingly, George welcomed a Festschrift honoring Gothein in 1923, 
including contributions of his disciples Friedrich Gundolf and Edgar Salin. And 
Kantorowicz had virtually no difficulties in bringing together a wide range of 
Kulturwissenschaften in his scholarly production, thus becoming a “juggler” of 
disciplines (Valensise 1988, p. 113). 

From its beginnings in the Wilhelmine Empire, George’s circle sought to 
recreate an aristocratic and neohumanistic anthropology for Germany. For the 
fulfillment of his aims, George had to create an elite, which required him to 
imbue a consciousness of predilection among his followers. Their participation 
in George’s spiritual realm, the “secret Germany,” destined them to be the 
political avant-garde, which in the future would be able to create a new state, for 
such an achievement was not to be expected from the self-perpetuating bourgeois 
society. In George’s eyes, the present Germany of the Weimar Republic lacked 


Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 399 


spirituality (“Geistigkeit”) and dignity, essentially the artistic element, “das 
Kiinstlerische” (Landfried 142-43). 

The primary means George used to create a consciousness of preeminence 
among his disciples was his poetry, which allegorized his Weltanschauung. 
George’s poetry was published in the exclusive, commercially hardly available 
Blatter fiir die Kunst (1892-1919) by the Berlin publisher Georg Bondi. Bondi 
also published the books of George’s disciples, including Kantorowicz’s work. 
The publications of the circle had two effects. They not only propagated 
George’s ideas to a larger public, but also served to establish a common horizon 
of ideas among his disciples, contributing to the elite consciousness. Moreover, 
George’s continuous travel between the homes of his disciples helped to create a 
vita communis. The highlights of these stays were the readings of his poetry or 
his personal translations of Dante’s Divina commedia. In the eyes of George’s 
disciples, there was finally the Eros ouranios of Plato’s Symposium, their 
submission to the will of the poet as an expression of love and reverence for him 
(Landfried 143-46). The relationship between Kantorowicz and George is 
exemplary of this principle. After George’s falling-out with Gundolf, 
Kantorowicz’s apartment in Heidelberg was his preferred residence whenever he 
stopped there (Griinewald 57). Eros as a binding link between “master and 
disciple” pervaded Kantorowicz’s letters to the poet from 1924 until 1933, the 
year of George’s death. For example, consider the way he addressed George, 
“Dearest master,” and he described a day spent with the poet: “24 hours of being 
spoiled by the master” (my translation of quotes in Griinewald 65, 67). 

It is my contention that the motivation for Kantorowicz’s entire body of 
work as a historian, from his biography of the German emperor Kaiser Friedrich 
der Zweite to his study of political theology, was his love and reverence for 
George. No major change in the direction of his scholarly production took place 
after Kantorowicz was forced into exile. Rather, his essays, Laudes Regiae, his 
study of early medieval political liturgy, and The King’s Two Bodies represent a 
dogged reaffirmation of George’s convictions. It was George, the poeta vates, 
who dominated the scholar’s work even after his death. It was the spokesman for 
a “secret Germany” who forced him to write either its Geistesgeschichte or a 
monumental biography of one of its heroes. 

The “secret Germany” was the token of the idea of an invisible, but 
nonetheless eternally present German Kulturnation, as it was in diametric 
opposition to what George perceived as the humiliation of the present — the 
German Nationalstaat. Prior to George, the eighteenth-century poet Friedrich 
Schiller had conjured up the two Germanies (Landfried 224-25). Not only did 
George take up Schiller’s concept, but Kantorowicz extended its genealogy back 
to the Middle Ages, where he saw the “secret Germany” prefigured in the realms 
of shadows depicted in Dante’s Divina commedia. George lauded the cultural 
heroes of the German past: Beethoven, Goethe, Schiller, Hélderlin and 
Nietzsche. However, the “secret Germany” also included foreign heroes, such as 


400 Kay E. Schiller 


Caesar, Napoleon, Shakespeare and Dante. They were all present in his vision of 
a meta-historical Kulturnation and symbolized the essence of a Europe without 
bourgeois nation-states, the continent as a cultural unity, where ancient Greece 
had passed the torch of spiritual leadership to Rome, and Rome to the Christian 
Middle Ages and Byzantium. Now the time had come for the “secret Germany” 
to carry the torch. Since political heroes were not available in the present, one 
had to draw on the great thinkers and political heroes of the past. One of them, a 
foreign hero who spoke six to nine different languages despite his very modest 
ability in German, was the Hohenstaufen emperor Frederick II (1194-1250). 

For George, Frederick II (“der Grésste Friedrich”), the Christian emperor and 
friend of Saladin, who was of German, Norman and Italian ancestry, personified 
the inseparable unity of Orient and Occident, as it was expressed in the idea of 
the renovatio of an all-encompassing Roman empire (23). George’s assessment 
took its lead from Dante, who regarded Frederick II a Roman (Davis 3). 
Furthermore, Frederick possessed the poetic features (“das Dichterische”) and the 
dream (Landfried 71-72). In short: George considered Frederick II the greatest of 
all medieval emperors. Therefore, a biography written by one of his disciples 
could only meet with his approval. 

Unlike earlier works on Frederick II, Kantorowicz’s was almost exclusively 
the narrative of the rise and fall of a hero. If one applies Dante’s poetics to the 
book, one is forced to call it a tragedy, according to the letter to Can Grande della 
Scala: What starts happily and ends as a disaster. Moreover, following George’s 
desire, Kantorowicz wrote the tragedy of a German emperor, as Shakespeare 
wrote tragedies of English kings (“engliscle Kénigsdramen”; Landfried 72). 
Frederick II, who commenced as the amazement of the world and added the 
crowns of Sicily and Jerusalem to the German crown, ended up having no heirs. 
Although he reached the peak of imperial power, at the same time he represented 
its demise with the foundation of a secular state, his Sicilian kingdom. On the 
one hand, Frederick II was the defender of law and justice, while on the other he 
usurped it with pure power. An incarnation of justice, Frederick was also the 
sovereign of a state whose foundation was illegitimate. As Dante writes in the 
Monarchia (3.16), the emperor, God’s direct representative on earth, liberated 
himself from the papal claims for his investiture, yet he was excommunicated 
several times. A guarantor of peace, at the same time he fought an exhausting 
war against the Lombard cities. For Kantorowicz, Frederick was both medieval 
prince and modern tyrant. He rejuvenated the majesty of the Roman Augustus, 
and at the same time prefigured Machiavelli’s Principe as an astute politician. As 
the founder of a secular state, he anticipated the monarchic absolutism of the 
sixteenth to the eighteenth centuries, the absolutism of rulers invested by divine 
right. Thus he laid the seeds for the European nation-states, as well as the rule of 
Wilhelm II in Germany. Germany’s and the world’s history in Frederick IT were 


Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 401 


torn into two incompatible parts: the laudable medieval universal monarchy and 
the despicable modern nation-state.” Indeed, the rise of the nation-state, the 
“world’s political and moral disaster,” had its origins around 1300, as 
Kantorowicz maintained in his 1951 essay (“Dante's ‘Two Suns,’” Selected 
Studies 325). 

In 1927, Kantorowicz was interested in Frederick as a hero. That is why his 
book did not represent an attempt to write a comprehensive history of the 
Hohenstaufen period in German and Italian history. Neither did Kantorowicz refer 
to the Norman background of Frederick’s Sicilian kingdom, nor did he devote 
attention to the influence Frederick’s grandfather, Barbarossa, had exerted on the 
development of the empire. Instead, the book began with prophecies: Vergil’s 
fourth eclogue and Joachim of Fiore were Kantorowicz’s points of departure. He 
artfully juxtaposed Vergil’s eclogue, which the Middle Ages read as the prophecy 
of a coming rule of Christ, with the Calabrian abbot’s vision of the coming of 
the antichrist. Literary sources, legends, sagas and anecdotes constituted a major 
genre of sources for the book (Abulafia 196). Its hyperbolic language, which 
depicted the emperor as a Messiah and a fallen angel, provoked sharp criticism 
from Kantorowicz’s colleagues. According to Albert Brackmann, Kantorowicz 
had taken too seriously the pictorial language of the sources of Frederick’s time, 
which he applied to his own vision of the emperor (7). Consider this passage 
from the last chapter of Frederick II, which is paradigmatic of Kantorowicz’s 
aggrandizing depiction of the emperor: 


Nur der Staufer, mit dem das Reich schloB und die Frucht aufsprang, reichte als Priester 
noch hoch in die Himmel Gottes hinauf, dréhnte als Kaiser tiber das Erdenrund hin und 
stie8 als Tyrann in die tiefsten Héllen hinunter, um mit den himmlischen und 
irdischen Michten auch die von der Kirche fiir ein Tausendjahr gebannten Damonen 
und Kriafte der unteren Welten aufzuriihren und in sein Gesamt einzubeziehen: 
Gottessohn Weltenrichter Widerchrist zugleich. 

(Kaiser Friedrich der Zweite 613)? 


In his narrative Kantorowicz never distinguished clearly between the language of 
the literary sources and his own. Behind the conflation of object-language and 
meta-language was a conception of historiography linked to national literature. 
In other words, Kantorowicz’s book represented the extension of George’s artistic 
claims to the realm of historiography. 

Kantorowicz defended his position in a speech at the annual meeting of 
German historians in Halle in 1930. There he contrasted national historiography 
(“nationale Geschichtsschreibung”) with cosmopolitan historical research 


2 For this summary, I am greatly indebted to Valensise 1989. See especially 201-3. 

This passage is left in the German original. Its resistance to translation was also noted by the 
authorized translator of Kantorowicz's biography, Emily O. Lorimer. Consequently, she omitted 
it in the English version (669). 


402 Kay E. Schiller 


(“kosmopolitische Geschichtsforschung” ) and the products of the “dubious type” 
of historical reporter of Ullstein-Deutschland. Thus the Methodenstreit with 
Brackmann, who at that time was the leading exponent of the prevailing 
positivism in medieval studies, became a political controversy (Lepenies 331). 
However, Kantorowicz’s concern cannot be equated with nationalism. In the 
presence of the “secret Germany,” the nation-state and what was left of Germany 
after World War I were repulsive to him. Furthermore, he never questioned the 
importance of positivistic research for the historian. Thus, in 1931 he published 
a supplementary volume with footnotes to his biography, although he did not 
permit Geschichtsforschung to desecrate the realm of art. 

The theoretically inconsistent distinction between the two tasks of the 
historian, however, is a reflection of the two schools of thought as they were 
represented by Max Weber and Stefan George in Heidelberg during the 1920s, as 
well as the duality of Kantorowicz’s occupation with the mandarins and 
participation in George’s circle at that time. Consider this passage from his 


speech: 


Even though it is absolutely true that research, which collects and organizes material 
or establishes facts, does not require the political, philosophical, and poetical 
components of man and consequently sets them free, nonetheless it is also true that 
historiography engages not only the contemplative scholar, who looks for truth, but 
the whole person, who follows truth to the last milestone of knowledge, and 
nevertheless serves art, which is always consecrated to an extreme, to a belief. Thus 
the historiographer actually carries out that interior tension, whereas the remissive 
and resigned research-scholar avoids it. 

(My translation of a quote in Griinewald 92) 


In Frederick IT, Kantorowicz never reconciled the built-in tension he described in 
his speech. It is not by coincidence that even Brackmann, who attacked his 
imagination créatrice, praised his thorough erudition (5, 21). Kantorowicz’s 
unsuccessful juxtaposition of historical narration and creative interpretation 
proves in fact that the tension was never resolved. His opposition of the 
contemplative scholar and the whole active man resounded with both Weber’s 
ideal of objective scholarship and George’s hope for a regeneration of life 
through art. In his later work the tension between the poet and the objective 
scholar persisted, even though Kantorowicz could not defend the “secret 
Germany” in his own language any more. 

In his biography of Frederick II, Kantorowicz safeguarded George’s realm by 
aggrandizing the emperor, whose monumentality was the result of the 
overemphasis of one of Nietzsche’s three kinds of history, as he depicted them in 
his 1874 Vom Nutzen und Nachteil der Historie fiir das Leben. Kantorowicz’s 
representation of the emperor was legitimate from this Nietzschean perspective, 
since the poet and philosopher had monumentalized the enigmatic man 
(“R&thselmensch”) Frederick in his Jenseits von Gut und Bése (121). That is 





Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 403 


why Frederick II could be compared with Napoleon and Alexander the Great 
twenty-two and thirteen times, respectively, throughout the book. Not 
surprisingly, Kantorowicz neglected Arabic sources, which described the physical 
appearance of Frederick thus: “The emperor . . . had a reddish complexion, he 
was bald and nearsighted. Had he been a slave, he would not have even yielded 
twenty dirham” (Lammers 121; my translation). 

The most important aspect of Frederick IT for Kantorowicz’s later career was 
his recognition of the importance of the intellectuals for shaping political 
ideology. Kantorowicz acknowledged that it was Frederick’s judges and jurists 
who had laid the legal groundwork for the administration of his Sicilian 
kingdom. Their Constitutions of Melfi in 1231 were based on the work of the 
glossatores of Roman law at the University of Bologna. It was the magistri who 
provided the political theology for a universal monarchy independent from the 
papacy and who also supported the birth of the modern state with their 
legislative work. It was the scholars who, with the patronage of Frederick’s 
grandfather Barbarossa, constituted nationes within the universitas of Bologna. 
Yet they unwittingly contributed to the formation of nation-states and 
nationalism. Their ambiguous relationship with power concerned Kantorowicz 
until the end of his life as a professor and whole man. What had been modern 
German history in disguise, increasingly became autobiography in the guise of 
medieval history. 

For Kantorowicz, Dante, a student of law in Bologna, was one of the 
medieval intellectuals of great interest. He was the last who, in the presence of 
continuous wars between city states and of interferences of the European powers 
in Italy, defended and glorified what had already perished at his time: the 
universal monarchy. Dante carried out this task as a political theoretician and a 
poet, with his Monarchia and with the imagination créatrice of a tripartite realm 
of shadows inhabited by heroes in his Commedia. Frederick II, not only for 
Nietzsche, George, and Kantorowicz, but also for Dante, was a hero. While it is 
true that in the Commedia he placed the emperor in Hell (/nf. 10.119), it was 
not for his political ideas but rather for his epicureanism. Moreover, Dante had 
further reasons for praising the emperor. In De vulgari eloquentia (1.12.2-5) he 
linked his own artistic forefathers, the Sicilian poets, with Frederick’s court and 
Pier della Vigna’s chancellery. It even seems that he had direct access to Pier 
della Vigna’s letters, whose style he arguably imitated in his own Latin 
epistolary (Davis 11-12, 54). 

In 1937 Kantorowicz published an essay on Frederick’s chancellor: “Petrus 
de Vinea in England” (Selected Studies 213-246). Pier della Vigna’s letters and 
his proem to the Liber Augustalis were the sources for Kantorowicz’s 
interpretation of Frederick II. In his essay on Pier della Vigna, Kantorowicz 
traced the influence of the latter’s ars dictandi on the chancelleries of the 
European courts. Pier della Vigna was the initiator of a stilus grandiloquus, 
which pervaded the propagandistic writings of the chancelleries all over Europe, 


404 Kay E. Schiller 


with the exception of England (Selected Studies 214). Kantorowicz summed up 
the stylistic development in the chancelleries in the centuries following Pier 
della Vigna as a loss of the genus grande and a turn toward sobriety and privacy: 


The definite abandonment of the stilus grandiloquus or stilus supremus, which Dante 
still used in his letters, strictly speaking already commences with Petrarch, who 
aimed at a completely different ideal of style. The letters become more intimate and 
serve private instead of public communication. The voice is lowered, frequently only 
a whisper. The altered rhythm of life changed the rhythm of language as well. 
(Selected Studies 215; my translation) 


It was not exclusively Petrarch’s voice that had changed. In this essay, 
Kantorowicz himself gave up Dante’s stilus supremus, which had still 
characterized his biography of Frederick II. Just as Kantorowicz’s life changed 
during the first years of the Nazi dictatorship, so his style of writing also 
changed. Furthermore, the shift was justified with the differences in the topics he 
worked on. Whereas in Frederick II the genus grande prevailed, just as Cicero, 
Quintilian, and also Dante had prescribed for the treatment of “high subjects,” 
thereafter he dealt with intellectuals who deserved only the genus medium. 
Furthermore, this choice echoed his two formative influences. Whereas George’s 
poetry achieved its aims through a complexity of rhetorical means, Max Weber 
deliberately neglected the style of his scholarly prose. Nevertheless, Kantorowicz 
never gave up his artistic claims as historiographer. He simply situated them on 
a d:fferent textual level, as I will show subsequently. 

One episode in Pier della Vigna’s life constituted a riddle for Kantorowicz. 
Even though the chancellor had declared himself a loyal follower of the emperor, 
in a private letter to the English king he asked to be accepted as “son and citizen 
of the English kingdom” (Selected Studies 229). Consider how Kantorowicz 
interpreted this act: 


Thus Vinea wants English citizenship, as we might say nowadays. An odd desire for 
an age which did not possess our notion of citizenship at all. It is a first substitution 
of regal by national thought. 

(Selected Studies 229; my trans.) 


Kantorowicz also shed light on the contradictory aspects of Frederick’s rule. 
Later on, in The King’s Two Bodies the contradictions in Frederick vanished 
entirely. By then he became a decisive, but nonetheless only intermediary step in 
the long history of the formation of modern nation-states. But there is even more 
to the riddle of Pier della Vigna. The loyal follower of George’s realm of the 
“secret Germany,” Kantorowicz himself, unsuccessfully applied for British 
citizenship during those years (Giesey 195n13). His reluctance to leave Europe 
for America, which can be traced through his correspondence with his German 
colleague and emigre Theodor E. Mommsen, can be explained by his plans to 


Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 405 


immigrate to Great Britain (Kantorowicz Collection, Box 5, Folder 3). 

Twenty years later, when Kantorowicz was a professor at Princeton, The 
King’s Two Bodies was published. The central topic of Kantorowicz’s study in 
medieval political theology was the relationship between “power” and the actual 
ruler (Valensise 1989, p. 211). Once again he traced the ideological origins of 
the modern state. 

After all, it was the deification of nation-states in the nineteenth and 
twentieth centuries, more specifically the monstrosity of the German 
Nationalstaat, to lead to the destruction of most of Europe and its culture. With 
the end of World War II, Europe lost its role as the center of the globe and the 
cultural unity between the East and the West was irretrievably gone. Instead, the 
continent became the ideological battlefield of the Cold War between the Eastern 
and the Western superpowers, the Soviet Union and the U.S. 

For Kantorowicz it still remained to be explained how all this occurred. 
Thus, for the last time the past had to be appropriated in order to explain the 
present. By providing an explanation, he proved again that his adherence to 
George’s “secret Germany” was the only acceptable intellectual, emotional, and 
political choice he could have made in Germany’s “‘secret capital,” Heidelberg, in 
the 1920s. 

According to Kantorowicz, the genesis of the modern state resided in the 
political theology of the Late Middle Ages, as it was developed in the law 
schools of the Italian universities. There, the jurists laid the intellectual basis for 
the idea of the immortality of monarchy, as opposed to the mortal king. In 
short, the idea of the king who possessed two bodies: a body politic and a body 
natural. Kantorowicz’s analysis of legal and political thought began with a 
depiction of Christ-centered kingship in the eleventh century, moved through 
law-centered kingship, as it was represented by the rational state of Frederick’s 
Sicilian kingdom, and through polity-centered kingship, where the mystical body 
of the church was replaced with the mystical body of the state. After an analysis 
of how notions of continuity and corporations affected kingship, Kantorowicz 
arrived at his original point of departure, the lawyers of Tudor England, who 
developed the fiction of the king’s two bodies to defend the property-rights of the 
English crown.4 

Kantorowicz’s “disinterested” history of the fictitious grounds of the modern 
State from the Middle Ages to the seventeenth century needs no detailed 
explanation here. It is important, however, to note that Kantorowicz unveiled a 
fictio at the root of the nation-state. The state was an irrational product. His 
early convictions, as represented by a belief in a supranational and meta- 
historical “secret Germany,” were reconfirmed. In the twentieth century, the 
myth of an all-encompassing state had become so strong a reality even in the 
U.S. that “the venerable community founded by St. Benedict on the rock of 


4 T owe this summary to Giesey 196. 


406 Kay E. Schiller 


Montecassino” called itself The Order of St. Benedict, Inc., as Kantorowicz noted 
with some amusement in the preface of his book (The King’s Two Bodies vii). 
Indeed, all the corporations of the Middle Ages, including the universitates, had 
lost their autonomy and had been incorporated into the state. But it was the 
intellectuals themselves, originally reunited to protect their studium, to 
undermine their own rights and provide political legality for the state with their 
scholarship. 

Kantorowicz referred to the single chapters of The King’s Two Bodies as 
show-cases (‘‘Kabinettstiicke”; Malkiel 212). They were self-contained essays, 
but nevertheless bound together by the aim of disclosing the juristic fiction. 
Consequently, as his task demanded, in contrast to his work on Frederick II, he 
was unable to collapse the pictorial language of the sources with the language of 
the historian. Thus, it was not what Malkiel labelled as “the need to express 
himself . . . in a language of which he had a less than artistic command [which] 
had a sobering effect” (202). On the contrary, it is my contention that 
Kantorowicz did not give up the artistic claims of historiography, but rather 
situated them on a different textual level. Even though his style followed the 
rules of the genus medium, the artist was not entirely excluded from it. 
Kantorowicz unmasked the intellectuals in the institutions, but he saved the 
poets. What the narrative of Frederick II had blended together was now artfully 
juxtaposed by the very structure of The King’s Two Bodies. The first chapter, 
after the presentation of the “problem” and the last chapter before the “epilogue,” 
dealt with two poets: Shakespeare and Dante. Within the structure of the book, 
they served as timeless counterpoints to the diachronic representation of the 
fiction of the jurists. 

In his chapter on Richard II, Kantorowicz acknowledged that it was again a 
poet to give him the inspiration for his last scholarly work, since it was 
Shakespeare who created “the image of the twinned nature of a king, or even of 
man in general,” independently from the theologians, the jurists, and the 
political philosophers of the Middle Ages. It was he who “eternalized that 
metaphor” (The King’s Two Bodies 26). The Tragedy of King Richard II was 
indeed the tragedy of the two bodies of the king, as Kantorowicz emphasized: 
“For if that curious image, which from modern constitutional thought has 
vanished all but completely, still has a very real and human meaning today, this 
is largely due to Shakespeare” (26). 

The twin nature of the ruler had a “very real and human meaning” for 
Kantorowicz through his life and scholarship. It was the tragic constellation of 
Frederick II, incarnating the last universal monarch and the first modern ruler, 
which he recalled here. In Shakespeare’s juxtaposition of “the King, the Fool, 
and the God” Richard II “with Man’s wretchedness as a perpetual companion and 
antithesis at every stage,” Kantorowicz found the prefiguration of the opposition 
between the ideal ruler and the real ruler, the ideal man and the real man, which 
he himself depicted in his biography of the emperor (27). More importantly, 








Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 407 


however, Kantorowicz acknowledged that he needed a poet’s suggestion to reveal 
the jurists’ fiction. Thus for Kantorowicz, art triumphed over scholarship, or 
George’s belief in a spiritual renewal over Weber’s scholarly objectivity. 

Both Shakespeare and Dante echo the most formative influence on 
Kantorowicz’s work — that is, George’s charismatic leadership. Accordingly, the 
poet, the whole persona of Dante, and not simply the jurist or political 
philosopher, was accorded most attention in the last chapter on man-centered 
kingship in The King’s Two Bodies. As Kantorowicz stated: “It remained to the 
poet to establish an image of kingship which was merely human and of which 
MAN, pure and simple, was the center and standard” (451). 

Kantorowicz’s portrait of Dante in The King’s Two Bodies, like the reading 
of Pier della Vigna in his 1937 essay, constituted a hidden self-portrait. Here he 
followed George’s identification with Dante. George’s appropriation of this 
figure of the past can be easily retraced.> Dante enabled George to distance 
himself from his own surroundings, the Wilhelminian and Weimar state and 
society. A good example is his “Dante und das Zeitgedicht,” one of the poems 
dealing with contemporary issues in Der Siebente Ring. In the poem, the 
narrator is equated with Dante. The scene begins with the poet’s encounter with 
Beatrice. George then goes on to describe Dante’s restless vagrant life, mentions 
his political treatises in one single metaphor and ends with Dante’s mission: He 
had to exalt the sun and the stars (“sonn und stern” 8-9). 

The precondition for Dante’s acknowledgement of his historical mission in 
this poem was his central experience of love: incipit vita nova. According to 
Klaus Landfried’s interpretation, George thus allegorized his Liebeserlebnis with 
Max Kronberger, one of his disciples (78-79). George’s mission was the 
exaltation of the “secret Germany.” Kantorowicz’s task in American exile was its 
preservation. 

George’s appropriation of Dante was the necessary precondition for 
Kantorowicz’s in The King’s Two Bodies. One can find parallels between Dante, 
the German poet and his disciple also in their lives. Whereas George’s 
identification led him to flee Germany for France temporarily, because of his 
disgust with the lack of artistry (“Kunstfeindlichkeit”) in Imperial Germany, and 
a contempt for Wilhelm II in particular (Landfried 79), Kantorowicz substituted 
Dante’s exile in Ravenna with Berkeley and Princeton. Both he and Dante had 
left their native country and city as defenders of the political, moral, and 
emotional values of the universal monarchy. 

Nevertheless, the differences between George’s and Kantorowicz’s treatment 
of the medieval poet are evident. Whereas George lacked further interest in 
Dante’s political thought, the latter was Kantorowicz’s primary concern. Above 


5 Numerous examples for George’s identification could be provided in this place. See e.g. the 
photographies of the “Kosmikerfasching” in Munich in 1904. His costume imitated the 
common representation of Dante as poeta laureatus (Boehringer, vol. 2: 90-91). 


408 Kay E. Schiller 


all, his chapter on man-centered kingship dealt with Dante’s treatise Monarchia. 
But the discrepancies were of subordinate importance, since Kantorowicz could 
not conceive of the political theorist Dante as separated from the poet and his 
entire persona. Consider the following sentence from The King’s Two Bodies: 
“The visions of Dante the poet seem to interfere constantly with the logical 
arguments of Dante the political philosopher” (453). 

Kantorowicz’s judgement of Dante’s work might easily be applied to his 
own. In Frederick II, his aggrandizing interpretation of the emperor always 
meddled with objective scholarship. As a consequence, he was heavily attacked 
by his colleague Brackmann. Consider also the following quotation: 


[I]n a superficial manner he [Dante] has always been labelled reactionary, it is simply 
the prevalence of the imperial idea in Dante’s works . . . which obscured the 
overwhelmingly unconventional features of his moral-political outlook. Dante, of 
course, cannot be labelled at all. 

(The King’s Two Bodies 451) 


Kantorowicz’s scholarship was shaped by the very same imperial idea. The realm 
of the “secret Germany” led him to a rather “reactionary” defense of national 
historiography against cosmopolitan historical research in his speech in Halle in 
1930. This speech overshadowed the unconventionality of his own moral, 
political, and — one might add — emotional outlook, his adherence to George’s 
vision. 

In Kantorowicz’s eyes, Dante immortalized man-centered kingship. In order 
to free the universal monarch from papal investiture, Dante in his Monarchia 
delegated both universal offices, papatus and imperiatus, to their absolute 
standards, deitas and humanitas. This equilibrium corresponded to the two 
paradises in the Divina commedia, the celestial paradise and the newly created 
paradiso terrestre. Ideally, the universal monarch governed over the potential 
dwellers of the latter, the humana universitas. Consider Kantorowicz’s 
characterization of Dante’s hwmanitas: 


[Dante’s] humana universitas embraced not only Christians or members of the Roman 
Church, but was conceived of as the world community of all men, Christians and non- 
Christians alike. . . . And whereas great portions of men — Jews, Mohammedans, 
Pagans — did not belong to the mystical body of Christ, or belonged to it only 
potentially, Dante’s humana civilitas included all men: the pagan (Greek and Roman) 
heroes and wise men, as well as the Muslim Sultan Saladin and the Muslim 
philosophers Avicenna and Averroes. 

(The King’s Two Bodies 465) 


Thus, for the last time, Kantorowicz asserted that Dante’s vision of the universal 
monarchy of Frederick II, the student of the Muslim philosophers and Saladin’s 
friend, represented a positive alternative to the modern nation-state with its 


Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 409 


intolerance, racism and xenophobia. Europe’s and Germany’s history in 
particular, were rescued by Dante’s imagination, since he conceived of the 
humana universitas as supranational and meta-historical, “as ‘always’ and ‘all at 
the same time’ actuality” (The King’s Two Bodies 474). Just as for Nietzsche, 
history served the needs of life. 

Dante’s pilgrimage through the realms of shadows in his Divina commedia 
was a voyage through purification and regeneration. In a moral and philosophical 
sense this applied less for the Jnferno than for the Purgatorio. Only in his love 
for Beatrice in the Paradiso, however, did he find his ultimate spiritual 
redemption. The latter was irresolvably linked with the love for God and the 
empire. 

Kantorowicz’s relation to George should be understood in an analogous way. 
George represented Germany’s, Europe’s and his own spiritual salvation. The 
“heroes and wise men” of the Divina commedia prefigured the intellectual and 
political heroes of the “secret Germany.” Dante’s Liebeserlebnis with Beatrice 
corresponded to Kantorowicz’s love for George. During the course of his life, 
Kantorowicz embodied both Vergil, who guided Dante through the first two 
realms, and Beatrice, who led him to God. Consequently, when Kantorowicz 
commented on Vergil’s intellectual and moral baptism of Dante into humanitas 
(The King’s Two Bodies 491-92), he also made reference to his own figurative 
“coronation” by George. Indeed, the verse “te sopra te corono e mitrio” (Purg. 
27.142) was “pregnant with implications and allusions” and “as inexhaustible as 
... any work of art charged with life” (494). 

It may be on account of Kantorowicz’s existential reading of Dante in The 
King’s Two Bodies that his latest work did not receive the amount of attention it 
deserved for quite a long time. Nevertheless, with the decline of structuralism in 
history and literary criticism Kantorowicz’s truths, which were generated by 
dispassionate erudition and creative artistry, found a new public. The King’s Two 
Bodies has just been published in German. 


The University of Chicago 


Works Cited 


Abulafia, David. ““Kantorowicz and Frederick II.” History 62 (1977): 193-210. 

Alighieri, Dante. Géttliche Komédie. Ubertragungen von Stefan George. Berlin: 
Georg Bondi, 1912. 

Boehringer, Robert. Mein Bild von Stefan George. 2 vols. Second rev. ed. 
Diisseldorf: Helmut Kiipper, 1968. 

Brackmann, Albert. “Kaiser Friedrich in ‘Mythischer Schau.’” Now in Stupor Mundi. 
Zur Geschichte Friedrich II. von Hohenstaufen. Ed. Gunther Wolf. Darmstadt: 


410 Kay E. Schiller 


Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft, 1966. 5-22. 

Cantor, Norman F. American Historical Review 64 (1958-59): 81-83. 

Davis, Charles T. Dante’s Italy and Other Essays. Philadelphia: U of Pennsylvania P, 
1984. 

Dunham, W. H., Jr. Speculum 33 (1958): 550-53. 

George, Stefan. Der Siebente Ring. Berlin: Georg Bondi, 1909. 

Giesey, Ralph E. “Ermst H. Kantorowicz. Scholarly Triumphs and Academic Travails 
in Weimar Germany and the United States.” Leo Baeck Institute Year Book 30 
(1985): 191-202. 

Griinewald, Ernst. Ernst Kantorowicz und Stefan George. Beitrage zur Biographie des 
Historikers bis zum Jahre 1938 und zu seinem Jugendwerk “Kaiser Friedrich der 
Zweite.” Wiesbaden: Franz Steiner, 1982. 

Kantorowicz, Emst. ““Dante’s “Two Suns.’” 1951. Now in Selected Studies by Ernst H. 
Kantorowicz. Ed. Michael Cherniavsky, and Ralph E. Giesey. Locust Valley, 
N.Y.: J.J. Augustin Publisher, 1965. 325-38. 

. Frederick the Second. 1194-1250. London: Constable, 1931. 

. Kaiser Friedrich der Zweite. Berlin: Georg Bondi, 1927. 

. Kaiser Friedrich der Zweite. Erganzungsband. Quellennachweise und 
Exkurse. Berlin: Georg Bondi, 1931. 

. The King’s Two Bodies. A Study in Medieval Political Theology. Princeton: 
Princeton UP, 1957. 

. Laudes Regiae. A Study in Liturgical Acclamations and Mediaeval Ruler 
Worship. Berkeley: U of California P, 1946. 

. “Petrus de Vinea in England” (1937). Now in Selected Studies by Ernst H. 
Kantorowicz. Ed. Michael Cherniavsky, and Ralph E. Giesey. Locust Valley, 
N.Y.: J.J. Augustin Publisher, 1965. 213-46. 

. Die zwei Kérper des Kénigs. Eine Studie zur politischen Theologie des 
Mittelalters. Darmstadt: Wissenschaftliche Buchgesellschaft, 1990. 

Lammers, Werner. “Bild und Urteil der Geschichtsschreibung. Beobachtungen an 
Darstellungen Friedrich II. von Hohenstaufen.” Vestigia Medievalia. 
Ausgewdhlte Aufsadtze zur mittelalterlichen Historiographie, Landes- und 
Kirchengeschichte. Wiesbaden: Franz Steiner, 1979. 109-23. 

Landfried, Klaus. Stefan George. Politik des Unpolitischen. Heidelberg: Lothar 
Stiem, 1975. 

Leo Baeck Institute, New York City, Ernst H. Kantorowicz Collections. 

Lepenies, Wolf. Die drei Kulturen. Soziologie zwischen Literatur und Wissenschaft. 
Munich: Carl Hanser, 1985. 

Malkiel, Yakov. “Emst H. Kantorowicz.” In On Four Modern Humanists. Ed. Arthur 
R. Evans, Jr. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1970. 146-219. 

Nietzsche, Friedrich. Jenseits von Gut und Bése. In Samtliche Werke. Kritische 
Studienausgabe. Ed. Giorgio Colli and M. Montinari. Second rev. ed. Berlin: de 
Gruyter, 1988. 5: 9-244. 

Ringer, Fritz. The Decline of the German Mandarins. The German Academic 
Community, 1890-1933. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1969. 

Salin, Ernst. “Emst H. Kantorowicz: 1895-1963.” Historische Zeitschrift 199 
(1964): 551-57. 

The University of Chicago, Joseph Regenstein Library, Department of Special 





Dante and Kantorowicz: Medieval History as Art and Autobiography 411 


Collections, Presidents’ Papers 1940-1946. 

Valensise, Marina. “Deux modéles du pouvoir selon Ernst Kantorowicz. Entretien 
avec Ralph Giesey.” Préfaces 10 (November, December 1988): 113-21. 

. “Emst Kantorowicz.” Rivista storica italiana 101 (1989): 194-221. 

Weber, Max. “Der Sinn der ‘Wertfreiheit’ der Sozialwissenschaften”; ‘““Vom inneren 
Beruf zur Wissenschaft.” In Max Weber: Soziologie, Universal-Geschichtliche 


Analysen, Politik. Ed. Johannes Winckelmann. Fifth rev. ed. Stuttgart: Alfred 
Kréner, 1973. 263-310; 311-39. 





Giuseppe Mazzotta 
An Epilogue 


A cornerstone of recent Dante criticism in America is the principle, repeatedly 
articulated by Singleton and Freccero, of a dialectical structure between the 
pilgrim and the poet, and this structure is said to shape in its totality the 
narrative movement of the Divine Comedy. Within this frame of thought, Dante 
the pilgrim is the time-bound protagonist of an extraordinary, God-willed 
experience in the beyond, while Dante the poet occupies the omniscient vantage 
point from which he judges and gives sense to the world of history. The 
dialectics here summarily sketched is Augustinian in origin, and its chief 
contemporary interpreter is John Freccero. The focus on subjectivity as the 
primary concern of the Divine Comedy, however, resonates with the sort of 
claims that would fit, say, the Cartesian hermeneutics of the subject rather than 
Dante’s. The poet, in fact, comes forth as a detached, transcendent observer with 
a God’s eye viewpoint on the events unfolding on the great stage of time: 
because he has reached a global understanding of the shifting contingencies of 
both self and world, the poet is cast as a figure finally sitting in the tribunal of 
reason, immune to error and bent on rewriting his past. 

There is no way of denying that such a critical figuration of the poem’s 
economy has been immensely productive. From this Augustinian standpoint, for 
instance, poetry and theology, which are two modes of discourse with a long 
tradition of complicity and at the same time antagonism with each other, came 
to appear as being finally reconciled by Dante’s unique vision. More generally 
(and this is perhaps the single most distinguished achievement by Singleton and 
Freccero which scholars nowadays simply take for granted), the traditional 
fragmentary, piecemeal readings of the Divine Comedy, legitimately provided by 
many decades of pedantic historical-philological annotations or esthetic-Crocean 
criticism, are radically reversed and they attain an overall intelligibility and 
coherence by the (neocritical) assumption of the unitary formal/conceptual 
structure of the poem: its essential unity consists in the novelistic representation 
of the journey of the self from a state of sin to the vision of God. 

It was unavoidable that this self-centered understanding of the Divine 
Comedy should be thrown into question. The idea of a text’s enclosed totality is 
too partial when measured against the structural complexities suggested by the 
open-endedness of the poem; the principle of poetic closure, in fact, suspends the 
poem into a realm of timeless truth and it can never account for Dante’s 
imaginative yoking of history and knowledge; the notion of self as an entity 
occupying a fixed, ahistorical perspective, from which he dominates and controls 
the world the text conjures up, clashes with the poet’s constant reminders that 
there is no exit from history. It clashes, more specifically, with the fact that the 


An Epilogue 413 


thrust of the poem is to awaken us to the puzzles of time and of language; to 
decenter the self, as it were, in the recognition that the world is irreducible to 
one’s own individual designs; to cast the self not as a Cartesian master, a 
substantial self-defining subject standing apart from political, cultural, moral and 
theological concerns, but forever vitally involved in the contexts and experiences 
of history and its transcendence. 

The suggestion that there is a way of reading the Divine Comedy as a 
problematical text, as a text that simultaneously makes radical assertions and 
also forces us to rethink all categories of knowledge and power from a 
perspective that I have been calling exilic, will by necessity stumble against 
ossified, entrenched and unidimensional patterns of reading. I evoke this 
perspective here because of its timeliness as one undertakes to write what is 
editorially titled “an epilogue.” “An epilogue” (and the wisdom of the indefinite 
article intimating alternate possibilities is duly noted) is an act of closure. But, 
as the narrative strategy of the Divine Comedy exemplifies, there is nothing 
more illusory than the absolute claim of a detached viewpoint from which one 
merely surveys the various interpretive schemes and assigns them an unequivocal 
place and a value. One learns from the Divine Comedy that a seemingly 
conclusive experience is at the same time the obverse image of and can only be 
conceived as an opening up to further encounters and ordeals. The pages that 
follow, thus, can certainly be construed as “an epilogue” but not in the sense 
that they constitute a conclusion, a kind of final word or judgement on the 
debates making up this volume of Annali d’italianistica. My remarks are “‘an 
epilogue” in the etymological sense of epi (upon)and legein (to say), an 
additional saying to what has already been said. In a play the epilogue is part of 
the fatalities the play represents: actually, it can be either an actor or a short 
statement delivered to the audience by one of the actors in order to prolong and 
allow to resonate what the spectators have witnessed. From this standpoint this 
epilogue could be more properly called a commentary. For this very dantesque 
rhetoric of the commentary the figure of glossing a text designates the 
inflections of a common memory, a dismembering and remembering of poetry, 
which is itself already the daughter of memory, a way of coming back to a given 
past and projecting it into the future. The above disclaimer should not be 
construed either as a somewhat byzantine variant of a captatio benevolentiae or 
as a coy gesture of disavowal of responsibilities attendant upon the provisional 
role of the reviewer. It dramatizes, rather, the predicament inherent in any 
genuinely hermeneutical structure, the consciousness of which surfaces with 
varying degrees of rigor in a number of essays included here. John Took and Kay 
Schiller respectively extend and dramatize the traditional principle of self- 
exegesis, Freccero’s autobiographical paradigm as the weave of Dante’s poetic 
language; a more complicated sense of the pattern delineated by Took and 
Schiller is made available by Theodore J. Cachey’s reflection on the unending 
process of translating the Divine Comedy, which for him recalls the necessary 


414 Giuseppe Mazzotta 


transaction between hermeneutics and poetics. It is even possible from this point 
of view to see how correlated and intertwined are the contributions by Kleinhenz, 
Harrison, Ascoli and Shoaf. 

The thematic burden of the philologically impeccable article by Christopher 
Kleinhenz is the presence of “Biblical citations” in Dante’s poem. The citations 
constitute what is justly called a poetics of fragments, in the sense that the 
highly controlled occurrence of lines from the Bible in the Divine Comedy 
(almost exclusively from the psalms) entails the problematics of authority: in 
point of fact, the citations are authoritative glosses on the pilgrim’s particular 
experiences and, in turn, the poet’s own text glosses, appropriates (with all the 
complexities such an operation entails) and emblazons the Biblical text. 
Kleinhenz’s procedure, which comes forth as an empirical, objective reification 
of the poem, never really wishes to probe how the process of exegesis he 
describes both deflates and empowers the picture of the subject. 

But the pieces by Harrison, Ascoli and Shoaf decisively seek to shift the 
center of gravity of the critical debate on the self and its source of intelligibility 
to a level which lies outside the parameters drawn so authoritatively by 
Singleton and Freccero. For all their differences in style, one might add, there is 
both tension and complementarity in their arguments. Harrison’s is literally a 
gloss on his book, The Body of Beatrice, where he had explored the Vita nuova 
not as an autobiography, but as the imaginative place where the retrieval of the 
primordial enigmas of being occurs. For this retrieval, so runs Harrison’s 
reasoning, language and temporality of poetry are the only possible path of 
representation. In the light of such a metaphysical retrieval Harrison gives only 
fleeting attention to the redescription of the self. Some careful scrutiny would 
have been necessary to the interplay of text and gloss, to the process of 
understanding that has become the critical focus in the doctoral dissertation by 
Thomas Stillinger that surely ought to be published. Nonetheless, the Dante that 
emerges from Harrison’s study, far from being an entity simply judging and 
discarding the past through the technique of palinodes, is one projected into the 
imponderable challenges of the future. 

Ascoli’s article, on the other hand, analyzes the constitution of Dante’s 
authority by mapping the variety of roles Dante’s self plays and by highlighting 
the material constraints of history on those roles. Rhetoric is for Ascoli both the 
all-encompassing context within which Dante’s shifting claims of power are 
grounded and also the refracted light in which is rooted Dante’s understanding of 
language. Ascoli believes that language is an instrument of domination as well 
as the medium of self-discovery. Shoaf, finally, presents a vision of the Divine 
Comedy not as an ahistorical, transcendent structure, as an archaic, precious and 
lofty myth which a poet such as Chaucer ironizes, but as the imaginative knot 
of Christian theology, philosophical problematics and poetic myth. More than 
that, Shoaf etches a picture of the alien status of Dante’s poetry, of the radical 
impossibility of domesticating the poem, as readers — and this is a paradox that 


An Epilogue 415 


would deserve some probing — complacently and inevitably do, within the 
bounds of our own contingent concerns. The unsettling value of the Divine 
Comedy, Shoaf argues correctly, its subversiveness and iconoclasm — as well as 
the iconoclasm of Chaucer’s poetry — lie in its resistance to our secular style of 
thought. By focussing on literary history — on the transformations, 
complicities and permutations that a historical hermeneutics discloses — Shoaf 
also projects a Dante forever caught up in the world of history and not the poet 
toward whom Chaucer would display, as Chaucer’s critics in fact display the sort 
of nostalgia which in religious language appears as a longing for an untroubled 
image of a paradise lost. From this viewpoint, Harrison, Ascoli and Shoaf 
together draft the interplay of metaphysics and rhetoric as the horizon of Dante’s 
unfolding imagination. 

Most of the other articles in this volume are substantially different from the 
three just discussed. Harrison, Ascoli and Shoaf seek to set in motion a 
speculative and thoughtful dialogue with (and an overcoming of the very lexicon 
within which) the Singleton-Freccero tradition (and the hyphen stands for a 
complex designation of continuity and distance in that trajectory) of Dante 
criticism in America. Most of the others (and there are exceptions to this 
characterization) present alternate paths to the Singletonian brand of Dante 
criticism (Barolini, Wlassics, Valesio, Ross). But I shall not attempt the 
impossible task of giving a detailed account or classification of these various 
contributions in terms of the various traditions they evoke (Valesio, for instance, 
picks up the Pascoli, Sarolli, Di Scipio line of inquiry). Such an attempt would 
be inadequate because it would amount to a blatant flattening of the scholars’ 
respective differences and insights. Nor is a synthesis of them really possible. 
On the face of it, so many are the voices here present, so disparate their 
viewpoints, so diverse their assumptions, and so wide the variety of procedures 
that a reader might be reasonably led to believe they constitute the nearly 
complete landscape of Dante scholarship in America today and thus to expect an 
assessment of the emerging lines of force in the field of Dante studies. Such is 
not the case. 

Many genuinely powerful and exciting critical perspectives are not even or 
are just barely mentioned in the various pieces gathered here (one thinks of Maria 
Rosa Menocal’s sense of the ideology of inclusion/exclusion in Dante’s texts; of 
Giuliana Carugati’s rhetorical reading of mystical thought in the Divine 
Comedy; of Thomas Stillinger; of the superb work done in conjunction with 
Robert Durling by Ron Martinez; of Joan Ferrante, Giuseppe Di Scipio, 
Amilcare Iannucci as well as of Peter Hawkins, Jeffrey Schnapp, Kevin 
Brownlee, Rachel Jacoff etc.). The absence of these scholars, who do not belong 
to the same hermeneutical milieu, shows how irreducible to easy generalizations 
or a homogeneous pattern is the present world of Dante criticism in America. 

One is grateful, thus, to Zygmunt Barariski, Steven Botterill and David 
Robey for attempting with a high degree of theoretical awareness a historical 


416 Giuseppe Mazzotta 


reconstruction of the terrain and for tracing a provisional map of cracks, edges 
and limits in the configuration of critical positions and strategies visible in the 
wake — in the double sense — of Singleton’s discourse. As one reads in the 
striking summations by Barariski and Botteril, “Singleton” has come primarily 
to signify the crystallization of the relationship between poetry and theology. 
The question is hardly new: is theology subjected to the inexorable overarching 
exigencies of poetry or is poetry subordinated to the majesty of theology, the 
traditional queen of the sciences, and it should thus be seen, as Gian Roberto 
Sarolli and Robert Hollander have been arguing for some time, inside the 
architectonics of a paramount theological construction? This is actually the 
fundamental question foregrounded by many scholars whose articles are included 
here. From this perspective it is ironic that the present debates leave the 
impression of a déja lu, in the sense that one is confronted with a version of the 
superannuated debate as to whether Dante’s allegory is the allegory of poets or 
the allegory of theologians. It is even more ironic that as the scholars seek to 
escape this critical impasse they never question the validity of the juxtaposition 
between poetry and theology, nor do they ever begin to wonder what “theology” 
means. 

It is clear that, say, the theology of St. Francis is radically opposed to the 
theology of St. Thomas; it is also clear that Dante’s theology cannot be reduced 
— as one finds in the lunatic fringe of the Dante cult — to the parameters of 
Aquinas. Contra the exacting rigor of Aquinas’s theological discourse, Dante 
mixes history, myth, fable and allegory. At the same time, it is clear that 
Dante’s epistemology cannot simply be brought back to an Augustinian, 
neoplatonic or Aristotelian mode. The reduction of poetry to the doctrines of 
Aquinas or Averroes turns out to be little more than an assertion of the 
redundancy of poetry and, to say it in different terms, the reenactment of Plato’s 
sense of the superiority of philosophy over poetry, a confirmation of the 
philosophers’ view of poetry’s ancillary status. One must be willing to envision 
that Dante reconceptualizes knowledge, that poetry itself for Dante is a mode of 
knowledge profoundly different from the mode and pattern of knowledge peddled 
by philosophers and theologians. More than that, poetry is for Dante the 
foundation of all knowledge. One must also be aware that a complicity and 
tension exist between the theological and poetic modes in both history and in the 
text. In the seventh book of The City of God, for instance, St. Augustine quotes 
Varro’s tripartite division of theology; the first is called fabulosa and it is 
deployed by the poets; the second is called “natural” and this is the purview of 
the philosophers; the third is called “civil” and it is the one the multitude uses. 
Nor can it come as a surprise to hear how commonly poetry is included “in 
numero theologiae,” or to be reminded of the Scholastic awareness of the 
metaphoricity of the Bible, which is a principle espoused by Dante’s text. 

In the light of these critical assertions (which I have sought to exemplify in 
a number of studies) one is struck by the stubborn reluctance of scholars to 


An Epilogue 417 


reflect on how Dante conflates several discursive registers and different 
imaginative worlds (the exceptions of Ascoli, Harrison and Shoaf have been 
noted above). What many scholars aim at is variously to make judgements about 
the internal consistency of Singleton’s arguments, to seek to “correct” the flaws 
they perceive in Singleton’s construction, or to bypass completely his insights. 
The pieces by Rocco Montano and John A. Scott, for instance, are aggressively 
polemical toward respectively Singleton and Freccero, but, paradoxically, they 
leave essentially intact the substance of the Singleton-Freccero mode of reading 
and, actually, they remain caught within the parameters established by these two 
scholars. 

Rocco Montano’s critique of Singleton’s scholarship is certainly accurate. It 
is difficult not to agree with Montano’s charge that Singleton’s historical sense 
is limited; that many traditions of theological and philosophical thought are 
neglected; that his commentary on the Divine Comedy obliterates crucial 
articulations in Dante’s own spiritual-intellectual development (the differences 
existing, for example, between the positions he stakes in Convivio and those in 
Monarchia or in the Divine Comedy; and that, finally, Singleton is indifferent to 
esthetics. Rocco Montano, in truth, has written at great lengths and wisely about 
medieval esthetics, and this work of his undoubtedly deserves to be studied, but 
to the best of my recollections he has not pondered the textual process whereby 
esthetics shapes the encyclopedic compass of Dante’s imagination. 

From this standpoint, John A. Scott’s reflection on Dante’s rationalism 
marks a step backward from Rocco Montano’s call for the acknowledgement of 
the rich intersection of cultural strains and encounter of traditions in Dante’s 
text. Scott takes to task Freccero’s and Hollander’s view of Dante rejecting 
philosophy in his encounter with Casella and Cato in Purgatorio II. On the 
authority of Etienne Gilson’s Dante and Philosophy Scott counters the claim of 
Dante’s rational crisis in the Convivio; even in the Divine Comedy, says Scott 
in agreement with Bruno Nardi, Maria Corti and Fiorenzo Forti, the value of the 
phylosophica documenta is undiminished for Dante’s Christian Aristotelianism. 
Scott’s argument and thesis, which resonate with the authority of the 
conclusions reached by some of the most eloquent historians of medieval 
philosophy, are quite strong. One can object to this kind of reading exactly what 
one can (and should) object to Gilson and Nardi: namely, that they study Dante’s 
abstract doctrines as if he were an epistemologist and not a poet; these 
historians, in brief, never grapple with the role of the imagination — dreams, 
memory, rhetoric, passions — in the constitution of knowledge. Yet it can be 
shown that Dante thinks of knowledge in terms of vision; he has things to say 
on the self as the limit of knowledge and on experience as the limit of the self; 
on the value of grief for knowledge etc. 

In effect, both Montano and Scott confirm — in the mode of reversal or 
correction of the findings of Singleton and Freccero — the exegetical pattern 
they have canonized. There are, however, attempts in at least three articles of this 


418 Giuseppe Mazzotta 


issue of Annali da’ italianistica that move outside the orbit and will to discard the 
theological concerns of the Singleton interpretation. Paul Colilli focuses on 
Harold Bloom’s casting of a post-theological Dante and seeks to grasp the 
premises of Bloom’s hyperbolizations on poetics. Poetry, put most simply, is 
an absolute — not just in the sense that it is a boundless and inexhaustible 
domain; it is an absolute in the sense that there can be nothing outside of it. 
Theology and all ideologies are part of poetic symbolics, of the perpetual 
longing of the imagination for an artifice that counters the nothingness of 
existence. In his Lucretian vision (which Bloom shares with de Man) poetry is 
the language of anxiety and power, the heretical-heroic, satanic (in Milton’s 
sense) voice dethroning the gods, while theology — as the cipher of calcified 
belief — is the death of the imagination. Colilli does not quite explore the 
Cartesian-romantic simplifications which are transparently present in this 
version of self-mastery and which Bloom borrows from Freccero; nor does he 
probe how, for instance, anxiety is not just the world of necessity but also the 
recognition of a reflective consciousness of freedom, the sense of choices 
available to mar. Quite correctly Colilli points out the pitfalls and schematicism 
in Bloom’s interpretive practice, but more could be said about the extent to 
which Dante’s poetry dismantles the diabolical cult of power from an exilic 
perspective (the same could be said for Ascoli’s piece). It could be also shown 
that Bloom’s idea of poetry never engages the question of poetry’s transactions 
with the world of history; and that, finally, to reduce poetry to the dynamics and 
persuasions of erotics and rhetoric is to preempt and limit the visionary 
possibilities of the poetic imagination into unknown worlds. 

Bloom’s romantic “detheologizing” of Dante reappears discreetly in Tibor 
Wlassics’s article which argues, first, against the pragmatics of interpretation put 
forth by Stanley Fish and, second, for an idea of the Divine Comedy as 
punctuated by a linguistic polysemy that is guaranteed and endorsed by the 
consciousness of the poet as the privileged reader of his own text. The centrality 
of grammar or narrativity — and not (pace Robey) grammatology, as it were — 
is the core principle that sustains Teodolinda Barolini’s systematic and all- 
encompassing readings of Dante’s poem. What constitutes a text — Barolini 
argues with extraordinary force and conviction — are not theological dogmas and 
metaphysical assumptions; on the contrary, the intelligibility of a text resides in 
its objective narrative structure and in the multiple internal relations of the lexis. 

From this viewpoint her work cuts across boundaries of nationalities and 
schools; it reminds one, in fact, of the equally prestigious studies conducted in 
Italy by Edoardo Sanguineti and in France by the school of narratology. In the 
circle of Dante studies Barolini’s analysis is unmatched: it is possibly somewhat 
akin to Ascoli’s insistence on rhetoric and to Wlassics’s idea of grammar, but it 
is removed from Shoaf’s, Harrison’s and Menocal’s insight into the 
metaphysical claims of narrative. Paradoxically, Barolini’s formalistic readings, 
which owe their remarkable energy to the priority of narrative and to her critical 


An Epilogue 419 


empiricism that eschews all dogmas, lapse into the dogma of empiricism itself. I 
shall explain what I mean here in the belief that Teodolinda Barolini will 
welcome considering the feasibility and necessity of a deeper involvement with 
the text. What I mean by imputing this dogma is that there are, in effect, a 
number of metaphysical assumptions one makes by the apparently innocuous, 
scientific act of foregrounding the narrativity of a text as that which is directly 
accessible to the reader. One assumes, for instance, that a narrative is cohesive, 
that a master plot exists, that it can be understood as a whole and that in the 
light of an overall meaning the significance of individual words, of conceptual 
and metaphoric patterns, and of narrative and stylistic strategies can be 
discovered. Empiricism, I fear, blinds the reader to the most self-evident law of 
hermeneutics, to a series of metaphysical assumptions as well as to the fact, that 
is, that a text is not merely an object accessible to us; that in the encounter with 
a text we as readers bring with us a number of presuppositions. All of this 
means that a reading must be contextualized; that one must always seek to catch, 
however provisional and tentative the effort may be, the resonances and historical 
semantic sediments of language. But there is a further, more fundamental limit 
to an analysis of the narrative structure of the poem. It can be supposed that 
Dante writes because he wants to persuade us about the shape of things, about, 
say, the nature of evil, about our place and responsibility in it. A purely formal 
analyses will never show us the way in which a poem becomes an instrument of 
knowledge and self-knowledge. 

There are two papers, finally, that confront Dante’s moral spiritual vision in 
a way that owes nothing either to the narrative analyses exemplified by 
Teodolinda Barolini or to the categories of the Singleton-Freccero critical 
tradition. One is by Charles Ross and the other is by Mario Trovato. What binds 
them together is the question of justice and of the good as the metaphysical 
assumption of Dante’s mature vision. Beyond all philosophies and outside all 
the forms of epistemic predicament there is — as Plato and Dante, to mention 
the chief architects of our mythology, envision it — the good. We tend to forget 
or just never probe long enough the meaning of Dante’s assertion that his poetry 
ought to be seen as part of ethics. Ross’s piece focuses on the steady interplay of 
the “inside” and the “outside” in some crucial metaphors of Dante’s poetry; 
Trovato’s article links metaphysics and ethics. Both of them suggest to us that 
for Dante the world is not reducible to the self nor is it reducible to language or 
to pure thought, no more, anyway, than truth is reducible to the measure of 
man. The poetic insight Dante has into the nature of existence is profoundly 
religious and exilic (for exile is the heart of the religious imagination) in the 
sense that the fold of Dante’s text always invites us to think otherwise and to 
realize, in the words of one of the fragments of an ancient sage, that “the Lord 
neither speaks nor conceals . . . but gives a sign (alla semainei).” 


Yale University 


REVIEWS AND NOTES 
NOTES 


Gustavo Costa 
L’Arcadia: movimento letterario o utopia?” 


1. Il problema dell’Arcadia coincide in larga misura con quello della cultura italiana 
della prima meta del Settecento. Non pud quindi essere affrontato da un punto di vista 
strettamente letterario. E necessario servirsi di un approccio interdisciplinare, inteso 
a ricostruire la mentalita di una intera epoca che ha avuto la funzione di cerniera fra 
una visione del mondo prescientifica e una visione del mondo scientifica (in senso 
newtoniano). Mi sia pertanto consentito di trattare del fenomeno arcadico non gia 
rimanendo all’interno della famosa accademia romana, ma piuttosto guardando ai suoi 
molteplici legami con la realta esterna e soprattutto con quanto di pili significativo si 
andava facendo, nella prima meta del secolo XVIII, nel campo della scienza, della 
filosofia e della storiografia. Del resto, é un fatto ben noto che i compartimenti - 
stagno delle specializzazioni vanno abbattuti, quando si voglia intendere quel che é 
veramente accaduto (specialmente in epoche anteriori all’avvento dello specialismo 
moderno). Questo @ appunto |’approccio proposto da un grande assertore della unita 
inscindibile della cultura, Benedetto Croce, nel discorso tenuto per l’inaugurazione 
dell’anno accademico 1945-1946 dell’Arcadia, dove si legge che “in quella grande e 
nazionale accademia entrava la pid alta societa italiana, e uomini di scienza e uomini 
di stato e altresi uomini insigni nelle guerre di quel secolo” (L’Arcadia 3). 

Certo la tesi crociana di una Arcadia intesa come “la crisi della decadenza e il 
principio del risorgimento nazionale” (Croce, L’Arcadia 5), va riveduta secondo i 
parametri storico-geografici della letteratura italiana, additati da un maestro come 
Carlo Dionisotti. Oggi nessuno accetterebbe senza beneficio d’inventario la 
posizione di Croce che risente di una storiografia risorgimentale superata, perché 
fondata sul presupposto sbagliato di una realta italiana monolitica, unitaria a priori. 
Secondo Dionisotti, 1’Arcadia ebbe il merito di porre il problema dei rapporti della 
letteratura italiana non solo con le letterature straniere, ma anche con le tradizioni 
locali. Nel Seicento, “era mancata agli uomini di lettere, cresciuti all’insegna del 
primato italiano e nel culto sempre pili esclusivo della loro lingua, la capacita che 
scienziati, filosofi e storici ancora serbavano, di guardare attentamente a quel che si 
veniva producendo fuori d'Italia” (Dionisotti, Regioni e letteratura 1391). Nel secolo 
XVII, dopo la meteorica fortuna di Marino (fortuna non solo italiana, ma anche 
europea), la letteratura della penisola si chiude in sé e si municipalizza: “]’attivita 


. Questa relazione é stata da me letta in una sessione commemorativa del terzo centenario della 
fondazione dell'Arcadia, che @ stata presieduta da Domenico Pietropaolo nell'ambito del 
convegno annuale della Societa Canadese per gli Studi dTtalianistica, University of Victoria, 
Victoria, B. C., 26-29 maggio 1990. Colgo l’occasione per ringraziare il collega Pietropaolo e 
la suddetta Societa. 


Italian Bookshelf 421 


letteraria si era, nella generale mediocrita, ritratta e spartita nei singoli Stati e in 
ciascuno Stato nelle citta” (Dionisotti, Regioni e letteratura 1391). Verso la fine del 
Seicento, il riconoscimento pil’ o meno contrastato della superiorita della Francia 
provoca “il tentativo di riscuotere l’Italia”, impostato “sulla solidarieta nazionale e 
sulle esistenti, ormai irriducibili, differenziazioni politiche, regionali e municipali” 
(Dionisotti, Regioni e letteratura 1391). Qui @ da cercare la ragione di quella “struttura 
federale dell’ Arcadia di Roma con le sue colonie sparse per tutta Italia” (Dionisotti, 
Regioni e letteratura 1391). Paradossalmente Dionisotti ravvisa nella politica 
espansionistica dell’Arcadia di Roma una consapevole volonta di distacco dalla 
romanita e di avvicinamento all’ellenismo dell’Italia meridionale, alla gloriosa 
civilta della Magna Grecia, anteriore alla conquista romana. Lo stesso richiamarsi 
all’Arcadia significa identificarsi con le “origini preromane della civilta classica” 
(Dionisotti, Regioni e letteratura 1391). Secondo Dionisotti, la finzione arcadica di 
“un quadro ideale di vita semplice, pacifica, devota alle arti”, ebbe anche un effetto 
pratico di primaria importanza: permise agli intellettuali italiani “di prendere parte a 
dibattiti e sviluppi della cultura europea contemporanea, senza che questa limitata 
partecipazione importasse uno scontro diretto sul terreno della religione e della 
filosofia” (Dionisotti, Regioni e letteratura 1391). 

Quanto possano essere fecondi gli studi a livello locale (secondo 1’indicazione di 
Dionisotti) risulta fra l’altro dalla recente opera di Mario Saccenti sull’Arcadia di 
Bologna, colonia assai notevole, che tuttavia riconosceva la sua dipendenza da Roma 
nel suo stesso emblema: un albero d’alloro (1’Arcadia romana), al quale @ appesa la 
zampogna di Pan, che sovrasta un alberello della stessa specie (1’ Arcadia bolognese), 
con il motto significativo Matris se subiicit umbrae.1 Comunque la posizione di 
Dionisotti va a sua volta integrata con la considerazione dell’effetto corrosivo e 
stimolante che il diffuso interesse per le antichita germaniche ebbe nei riguardi della 
tradizionale identificazione della civilta italiana con la romanita. La stessa matrice 
dell’Arcadia, vale a dire la corte in esilio di Cristina di Svezia, poneva la cultura 
arcadica di fronte a una tradizione filogotica, strettamente legata alla caduta 
dell’Impero Romano d’Occidente. Elementi boreali penetrano nella lirica (Petronilla 
Paolini Massimi, detta Fidalma Partenide, esalta Amalasunta come un tipico esempio 
di donna emancipata e colta), nel melodramma (Alessandro Guidi, detto Erilo 
Cleoneo, scrive una Amalasunta in Italia, mentre Apostolo Zeno, detto Emaro 
Simbolio, detta in collaborazione con Pietro Pariati, detto Clealbo Mirtilio, un 
Ambleto fondato direttamente sui Gesta Danorum di Sassone Grammatico) e 
soprattutto nella storiografia e nella filosofia del primo Settecento, con risultati 
memorabili in Muratori (Leucoto Gateate) e in Vico (Laufilo Terio; si veda il mio Le 
antichita germaniche 235-377). D’altro canto, pud darsi che la nostra visione 
dell’Europa sia troppo riduttiva, perché tiene conto dei paesi centro-occidentali, 
senza curarsi di quelli centro-orientali, come ha osservato uno studioso ungherese 
(Sarkézy 1621-28). Non é@ da escludere che una prospettiva meno limitata possa 
cambiare pil’ o meno radicalmente la nostra percezione del ruolo svolto dall’ Arcadia 
sul piano internazionale. 

Comunque tutto questo pud arricchire, ma non cancellare la intuizione crociana 


1 La Colonia Renia, copertina. Si veda la recensione di questa opera di Forlini. 


422 Italian Bookshelf 


di un’Arcadia che va di pari passo, asseconda e, a suo modo, riflette un “fervore di 
nuova vita”, il quale “non era generato dall’Arcadia, ma bene nasceva con lei dalla 
medesima genitrice” (L’Arcadia 5). Occorre tener presente che esisteva, per dirla con 
Croce, una “affinita delle varie cerchie in cui si moveva la vita civile”, per cui “nei 
ritrovi arcadici convenne amicamente .. . tutta la pid intelligente e operosa societa 
del tempo” (L’Arcadia 5). Si tratta, come ho detto fin dall’inizio, di fare i conti con la 
mentalita del primo Settecento (uso il termine mentalita nel senso indicato dalla 
scuola delle Annales). Solo cosi sara possibile dare un giudizio equilibrato di un 
fenomeno complesso come il movimento arcadico. Metterd quindi a fuoco, in due 
sezioni distinte, prima 1’ Arcadia in rapporto alla cultura del suo tempo, poi l’Arcadia 
nel quadro delle poetiche contemporanee. 


2. Sono note le vicende che stanno alla origine del movimento arcadico, pur 
trattandosi di circostanze che tendono a sfumare nella leggenda. Cristina di Svezia 
(Basilissa) muore il 5 ottobre 1689. Esattamente un anno dopo, il 5 ottobre 1690, 
nasce 1’ Arcadia nel giardino del convento di San Pietro in Montorio, la chiesa romana 
da cui si gode uno splendido panorama, che Stendhal descrive all’inizio della Vie de 
Henry Brulard.” I quattordici letterati che parteciparono a questo evento avvertivano la 
necessita di un rinnovamento della poesia in polemica con il gusto barocco del loro 
tempo. Questa riforma assume l’aspetto di un ritorno al passato, perché non esiste 
ancora il concetto del progresso lineare e la visione storica é ancora ciclica. Di qui il 
carattere paradossale dell’Arcadia che vuole andare avanti, tornando indietro: vuole 
proporre una nuova realta letteraria, restaurando la mitica Arcadia, dove poeti come 
Virgilio e Sannazaro avevano additato la terra promessa della poesia. Vera o no che 
sia, la famosa frase che avrebbe suggerito a Giovanni Mario Crescimbeni (Alfesibeo 
Cario) il nome della nuova accademia (“Egli mi sembra che noi abbiamo oggi 
rinovata |’Arcadia”) rivela una mentalita storica fondata sulla renovatio temporum, 
che rimanda al concetto del ritorno della eta dell’oro (Costa, La leggenda dei secoli 
d’oro 157-70). Siamo quindi di fronte ad una realta storica che rivendica a sé una 
visione utopica del mondo. Di qui il colorito esteriore dell’Arcadia, a cominciare dai 
nomi pastorali che si riferivano a possedimenti fittizi.? 

Non é mia intenzione soffermarmi sul bric-d-brac arcadico, che rivela un gusto 
classico-rococé, a cominciare dalla famosa insegna, costituita dalla siringa a sette 
canne, coronata di lauro e di pino. Non intendo neppure ripercorrere le vicende pit! o 
meno movimentate dell’Arcadia, di cui si sono occupati studiosi come Antonio 
Cipriani ed Amedeo Quondam sulla scorta dei documenti conservati nell’ Archivio 
dell’accademia. Mi limito quindi a rimandare a Cipriani (Contributo) quanti vogliano 
farsi una idea delle vicende interne all’ Arcadia: dalla custodia di Crescimbeni a quelle 
di Lorenzini, Morei e Brogi, e da queste alle custodie di Pizzi e Godard. I] quadro 


2 Stendhal menziona “les grands orangers du verger des capucins”, ma si sofferma soprattutto sul 
panorama che si gode da San Pietro in Montorio: “Toute la Rome ancienne et modeme, depuis 
l’ancienne voie Appienne avec les ruines de ses tombeaux et de ses aqueducs jusqu’au magnifique 
jardin du Pincio bati par les Frangais, se déploie 4 la vue” (Vie de Henri Brulard 5-6). 

3 Indispensabile per chi non voglia perdersi nel labirinto dei nomi fittizi ¢ Gli arcadi dal 1690 al 
1800, Onomasticon. A questa opera rimando il lettore per i nomi arcadici citati nella presente 
relazione. 





Italian Bookshelf 423 


storico offerto da Cipriani va integrato, per quanto riguarda il famoso “scisma” del 
1711, con un esauriente studio di Quondam (Nuovi documenti) sull’argomento.4 Quel 
che unisce gli arcadi, al di 1a dei dissapori pit o meno gravi, @ l’aspirazione a 
restituire all’Italia quella posizione privilegiata nell’ambito della cultura europea, che 
era stata perduta nella seconda meta del Seicento. Anche in questo caso gli arcadi si 
trovano, per forza di cose, in una situazione paradossale. Sono per lo pil dei buoni 
cattolici, rispettosi delle esigenze della Chiesa Romana, ma, quasi senza accorger- 
sene, pongono dei problemi che rischiano di mettere in crisi l’ordine rigido della 
Controriforma, la cui censura impone una cappa di piombo sulla penisola. Se molte 
persone sono perfettamente felici, altre protestano a mezza bocca, come Apostolo 
Zeno, il quale, in una lettera indirizzata nel 1710 ad Anton Francesco Marmi 
(Ippocoonte Fedrio), accenna alla paura che obbliga alla prudenza i collaboratori del 
Giornale de’ letterati d'Italia: “questo riguardo tiene in freno la penna de’ Giornalisti, 
i quali direbbono qualche cosa, che lor malgrado conviene loro dissimulare” (Lettere 
II, 222-23). Molti sentono il bisogno d’informarsi di quanto sta accadendo in altri 
paesi europei, come la Francia o 1|’Inghilterra. Intrecciano rapporti epistolari o 
personali con eruditi, filosofi o scienziati stranieri. A volte scoprono situazioni o 
usanze sociali che li scandalizzano (valga come esempio il Marziale in Albion di 
Paolo Rolli, detto Eulibio Brentiatico; si veda Costa, Un avversario 618-30). Altre 
volte trovano oltralpe dei tesori che sentono il bisogno di donare all’Italia, 
facendone delle traduzioni, come quella del Paradise Lost, dovuta allo stesso Rolli, 
tipico rappresentante dell’anglomania settecentesca (Graf, L’anglomania 57-58, 202- 
6, 257 e passim; Dorris 168-77 e passim). 

Fra le acque stagnanti di una cultura ancora gravata dalla ipoteca 
controriformistica, nascono alleanze sorprendenti. Basti pensare a quella fra Roma e 
Londra, sancita nel 1713 da Francesco Bianchini (in Arcadia, Sevaggio Afrodisio). 
Questo prelato, che doveva recarsi in Francia per portare la berretta cardinalizia ad 
ArmandGaston-Maximilien de Rohan, approfittd dell’occasione per fare una puntata a 
Londra, dove conobbe personalmente Newton e venne accolto in seno alla Royal 
Society (Costa, Documenti 429-39; Rotta 192-93). Bianchini non era certo uno degli 
scienziati pit brillanti dell’Arcadia. Valeva infinitamente meno di un Marcello 
Malpighi (Terone Filacio), la cui importanza sul piano internazionale é stata sancita 
da una indagine monumentale (Adelmann, Marcello Malpighi). Comunque 
l’ammirazione di Bianchini per Newton é un fatto altamente significativo dal punto di 
vista della storia intellettuale. Come ha giustamente sottolineato Vincenzo Ferrone, 
l’incontro Bianchini-Newton segna l’inizio di una “vera e propria operazione 
culturale mirante a diffondere le teorie dello scienziato inglese nella penisola” (65). 
Non é certo indifferente al nostro assunto sapere che tale operazione parte da un 
ambiente assai vicino a quello arcadico, e precisamente dall’Accademia Gualtieri, 
fondata nel 1714 in casa del cardinale Filippo Antonio Gualtieri (in Arcadia, Megalo 
Petrosacio), grande ammiratore della cultura francese, che ebbe legami di amicizia con 
Mabillon, Malebranche e il duca di Saint-Simon (Ferrone 77). 

L’ Arcadia non fu soltanto “alunna di Cartesio”, secondo la definizione di Croce, 


4 Una buona bibliografia generale @ contenuta nella voce “Arcadia” che Franceschetti ha 
compilato per il Dizionario critico della letteratura italiana. 


424 Italian Bookshelf 


ma ando anche alla scuola di Newton, che consentiva di ricuperare il nucleo pit 
rilevante de] pensiero scientifico di Galileo, le cui opere erano ancora osteggiate 
dall’Inquisizione. Tanto @ vero che il Dialogo sopra i due massimi sistemi del mondo 
fu ristampato clandestinamente a Napoli, nel 1710, da una persona vicina a Vico: 
alludo a Lorenzo Ciccarelli, alias Cellenio Zacclori. Questi non figura 
nell’onomasticon degli arcadi, ma godeva della protezione di due aristocratici 
napoletani che fin dal 1691 erano stati ascritti all’Arcadia: Nicola Gaetani d’ Aragona, 
duca di Laurenzano (Elviro Triasio) e la moglie di questo, Aurora Sanseverino dei 
principi di Bisignano (Lucinda Coritesia).> Comunque rimaneva assai difficile studiare 
Galileo nel primo Settecento. Nel 1717, Anton Francesco Marmi indirizzava una 
lettera all’erudito francese Claude de Vic, in cui lamentava il fatto che le “Opere del 
Galileo, dopo tanto tempo che sono sotto il torchio della Stamperia Reale, ancora si 
desiderano; e poi saranno mancanti, perché chi vi soprintende, ha pochissima 
rassegnazione e umilta” (Costa, Antonfrancesco Marmi 146). Infatti l’edizione delle 
Opere di Galileo Galilei, pubblicata a Firenze dalla Stamperia di Sua Altezza Reale per 
i tipi di Giovanni Gaetano Tartini e Santi Franchi, nel 1718, non include il Dialogoe 
la Lettera a Cristina di Lorena sui rapporti tra I’ autorita della Scrittura e la liberta della 
Scienza, stampata per la prima volta in Germania nel 1636. A ragione, quindi, 
Scipione Maffei (in Arcadia, Orildo Berenteatico) notava nel trattato Dell’ antica 
condizione di Verona (1719) quanto 1’editoria italiana fosse indietro rispetto a quella 
transalpina: “grand’obligo dobbiam pur avere agli Oltramontani, gia che le stampe 
d'Italia, esiliati gli studj migliori, da cent’anni in qua se la van passando per lo pill 
con la bella Margherita” (46). 

Questa frase sembrava fatta apposta per urtare la suscettibilita dei letterati 
italiani. Essa, infatti, fu lo stimolo che indusse Giuseppe Maria Bianchini da Prato (in 
Arcadia, Inaste Dindimenio) a scrivere l1’Apologia per le stampe d'Italia, che usci nel 
secondo tomo (1729) della Raccolta d’opuscoli scientifici e filologici del padre 
Angelo Calogera. L’Apologia voleva essere un bilancio positivo della produzione 
libraria italiana sei-settecentesca non solo in campo strettamente letterario. In realta 
non fa che confermare sostanzialmente la tesi di Maffei, soprattutto per le sue 
omissioni (Costa, Clashing Traditions 278-301). La sezione letteraria propone un 
canone tipicamente arcadico di poesia eloquente, in cui spicca il nome di Vincenzo da 
Filicaia (Polibo Emonio), seguito da Benedetto Menzini (Euganio Libade), Ludovico 
Adimari (Termiato Marateo), Alessandro Guidi e Francesco De Lemene (Arezio 
Gateatico). Ovviamente Bianchini non accenna neppure alle difficolta censorie, 
incontrate da opere classiche, come lo Specchio di vera penitenza di lacopo 
Passavanti 0 gli scritti di Boccaccio (per non parlare della traduzione del De rerum 
natura lucreziano, fatta da Alessandro Marchetti): tutti autori che, come si vociferava 
negli ambienti intellettuali meno conformisti, Ciccarelli aveva pubblicato a Napoli, 
fra il 1715 e il 1724, senza il permesso della censura ecclesiastica. 

Naturalmente é assai debole la sezione della Apologia dedicata alla scienza. Vero 
é che contiene un elogio di Galileo, acclamato come “maestro di coloro che sanno” 
con evidente riferimento a Inferno IV, 131, dove quella espressione é@ applicata ad 


5 Si veda il mio La cerchia dei duchi di Laurenzano. Su Ciccarelli si vedano anche Ferrone, 
Scienza natura religione 91-93 e passim; Pietropaolo, The “Editio Princeps.” 


Italian Bookshelf 425 


Aristotele. Il che pud apparire come una trasparente allusione alla superiorita della 
nuova scienza galileiana sul vecchio aristotelismo. Ma non é men vero che Bianchini 
non dice nulla della condanna di Galileo. Analoga reticenza si nota nella sezione della 
Apologia dedicata alla produzione storiografica, dove vengono passate sotto silenzio 
la Istoria del Concilio di Trento (1619) di Paolo Sarpi, che venne pubblicata per la 
prima volta in Italia solo nella seconda meta del Settecento (1761-1768), e la [storia 
civile del Regno di Napoli (1723) di Pietro Giannone. Anche pil povera risulta la 
sezione della Apologia dedicata alla filosofia italiana, dove manca qualsiasi accenno a 
Giordano Bruno, a Tommaso Campanella 0 a Vico. Buona parte della migliore cultura 
italiana era relegata nelle catacombe. 


3. Finora abbiamo parlato di cultura nel senso pili vasto del termine. Ci sarebbe molto 
da dire sulla produzione poetica della Arcadia. Certamente nessuno oggi potrebbe 
permettersi il lusso di prenderla sotto gamba, come fece Croce, che addirittura parl6 di 
un Settecento senza poesia non solo in Italia, ma in tutta Europa (L’Arcadia 9-10). Gia 
Walter Binni, in una relazione letta nel lontano 1962, osservava che il Settecento 
italiano ebbe “una sua vita poetica interna, trové, a vario livello, espressioni 
poetiche minori e pur non ‘cestinabili’” (x1). Binni ricordava “la gentile e fervida 
animazione poetica di un Manfredi”, e spezzava una lancia in difesa di Metastasio: 
“siamo in parecchi, se non in molti, a pensare che anche al Metastasio non si possa 
negare, pur nelle sue limitazioni storiche e personali, il nome e la qualita del poeta” 
(x1). Sono ben note “la particolare simpatia e pietas storica”, con le quali Binni, per 
dirla con Bruno Maier, si @ accostato non solo a minori come Guidi, Manfredi o 
Savioli, ma soprattutto a Metastasio (Artino Corasio), la cui opera acquista nella 
critica binniana il rilievo di “manifestazione pit alta e organica della civilta arcadica, 
razionalistica e classicistica della prima meta del Settecento” (278-80). L’importanza 
(anche sul piano internazionale) di Metastasio é ormai un fatto acquisito grazie agli 
studi che sono stati dedicati al poeta romano in occasione del secondo centenario 
della sua morte. Basti pensare ai saggi raccolti nei volumi dei convegni metastasiani 
organizzati dalla Fondazione Giorgio Cini di Venezia (Metastasio e il mondo 
musicale) o dalla Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei (Convegno indetto in occasione del 
II centenario della morte di Metastasio). 

Ma é soprattutto nel campo delle poetiche che 1’Arcadia lascia un segno 
indelebile. Non per nulla, riallacciandosi alla pit qualificata letteratura intorno 
all’Arcadia, Riccardo Merolla sottolinea l’importanza della critica arcadica, la quale 
assunse la forma di “una trattatistica assai ampia e complessa, che accompagno tutta 
la prima e vera generazione arcadica a mo’ di chiosa costante e vigile” (1062). A 
questo proposito, vorrei sottolineare una caratteristica dell’Arcadia, che @ sfuggita 
agli studiosi. La critica arcadica prende atto della svolta impresa da Boileau alla 
fortuna del trattato Del sublime dello Pseudo-Longino, e si serve del longinianesimo 
per difendere la letteratura italiana dalla concorrenza francese.® In un’opera pubblicata 
nel 1688 (appena due anni prima della fondazione dell’ Arcadia), e precisamente 
nell’Arte poetica di Benedetto Menzini (Euganio Libanide), si incontra fin dal primo 
libro un attacco contro Boileau, il capo dell’anti-italianismo francese, e una recisa 


6 Si veda il mio Longinus's Treatise. Sui miei studi relativi al sublime si veda Mattioli. 


426 Italian Bookshelf 


affermazione della superiorita della poesia italiana: “Non aspettar Boeld, che dalla 
Senna / T’additi il buon sentiero . . . / Che ’] Parnaso Toscan fia che sovrasti / A gli 
altri tutti” (Arte poetica, Libro I). Comunque lo scritto menziniano @ imbevuto dello 
stesso longinianesimo su cui era fondata la poetica di Boileau. Basti vedere il quinto 
libro dell’opera di Menzini, dove il concetto di sublime é strettamente legato a quello 
di meraviglia, la cui importanza nel pensiero critico dell’ Arcadia @ stata giustamente 
sottolineata da Antonio Franceschetti (/l concetto di meraviglia). Il poeta, infatti, 
non esita a dare la seguente definizione del sublime: “Sublime é@ quel ch’altri in 
leggendo desta / Ad ammirarlo, e di cui fuor traluce / Belta maggior di quel che °1 dir 
non presta” (Arte poetica, Libro V). 

Essenzialmente longiniana @ la polemica di Giovan Gioseffo Orsi (Alarco 
Erinnidio) contro il gesuita Dominique Bouhours. Nelle Considerazioni sopra un 
famoso libro franzese intitolato “La maniére de bien penser dans les ouvrages 
d’esprit” (1703), Orsi rivendica la superiorita della poesia sulla prosa, che doveva 
rimanere un punto fermo della critica arcadica, richiamandosi al trattato Del sublime, 
XV, 2, dove lo Pseudo-Longino fa una netta distinzione fra 1’immagine del poeta, che 
é sorprendente, e quella dell’oratore, che é evidente: la prima tende alla esagerazione 
mitica, mentre la seconda é realistica. Si tratta di uma concezione che Eustachio 
Manfredi (Aci Delpusiano) elevé a sistema in uno scritto in cui condanna non solo 
l’effetto prosaico dell’alessandrino francese, ma la stessa lingua francese, come ha 
osservato giustamente Mario Fubini (Le “Osservazioni” 133-37). Il problema assunse 
una risonanza europea, per cui Nicolas Beauzée fu costretto a tenerne conto 
nell’articolo “Langue” (1778) della Encyclopédie. Nell’Ottocento lo stesso problema 
era dibattuto da Leopardi, come ha sottolineato Anny Simoni (90-92). 

La netta distinzione fra stile poetico e stile prosastico ricompare nel trattato 
Della perfetta poesia italiana (1706) di Muratori, che fa tuttavia un uso diverso del 
passo del saggio Dei sublime, XV, 2, cui si era richiamato Orsi. Secondo Muratori, 
non é detto che il fine della poesia sia la ékplexis o sorpresa e che quello della prosa 
sia la endrgeia o evidenza, perché lo stesso Pseudo-Longino (X, 6) usa il verbo 
eikonographein o rappresentare a proposito dell’arte di Omero.’ E appunto sul piano 
della immaginazione pittorica che Muratori esalta non solo Omero, ma anche Ovidio 
e il Marino, la cui fortuna sotterranea, in piena reazione arcadica al Barocco, é un fatto 
ben noto: “non ci era oggetto difficile, strano e minuto, ch’egli non sapesse 
vivamente ritrar con parole, e porlo sotto gli occhi de’ lettori: tanto aveva egli nella 
sua fantasia chiare le immagini, tanto prontamente gli sovvenivano tutte le parole 
pit acconce, pil proprie, pit’ sensibili per colorirle” (Della perfetta poesia italiana I, 
228). Per Muratori il sublime longiniano @ “quel nuovo, raro, straordinario e 
maraviglioso che nelle orazioni, e massimamente ne’ versi, cagiona stupore, 
d’improvviso ci rapisce e diletta, e o dolcemente o per forza muove dentro di noi gli 
affetti” (Della perfetta poesia italiana II, 112). Tutto questo @ opera dell’ingegno e 
della fantasia, come afferma Muratori, anticipando la posizione di Addison nell’Essay 
on the Pleasures of the Imagination. 


7 Boileau aveva tradotto ékplexis con il binomio “l’étonnement et la surprise”, endrgeia con le 
frasi “bien peindre les choses”, “les faire voir clairement”, e eikonographein con “representer, 
comme en un tableau” (Boileau-Despréaux, Dissertation 70 e 77). Muratori aveva presente la 
traduzione di Boileau. Io mi sono attenuto a quella di Rostagni: Anonimo, Del sublime 39 e 51. 


Italian Bookshelf 427 


La critica arcadica ebbe una notevole forza espansiva sul piano europeo. Basti 
pensare al trattato Della ragion poetica di Gravina (Opico Erimanteo), che venne 
sfruttato da Thomas Blackwell nella sua Enquiry into the Life and Writings of Homer 
(1735), opera assai fortunata del primitivismo settecentesco (Costa, Thomas 
Blacwell fra Gravina e Vico), per non dire della storia della volgar poesia (1698) e dei 
Commentarij intorno alla storia della volgar poesia (1702-1711) di Crescimbeni, che 
Thomas Gray cita ripetutamente nelle Observations on English Metre e nelle 
Observations on the Pseudo-Rhythmus (Gray's Poems, Letters and Essays 327n, 
328n, 332n, 334n, 335n, 338n e passim). Comunque le tracce pill vistose e feconde 
della critica arcadica si trovano in Vico, il quale, come ha dimostrato Fubini, subi 
influenza delle Considerazioni di Orsi, del trattato Della perfetta poesia di Muratori e 
della famosa lettera di Eustachio Manfredi sulla lingua francese (Fubini, Vico e 
Bouhours 135-46). Senza dubbio, sarebbe semplicistico attribuire esclusivamente 
all’ Arcadia il concetto vichiano di fantasia che ha origini complesse e varie. In quel 
concetto confluiscono i risultati cui era giunto un neurologo di fama internazionale 
come Thomas Willis, il pensiero di Malebranche e la tradizione dell’empirismo 
inglese (da Bacone a Locke). Si deve tuttavia riconoscere alla critica arcadica il merito 
di aver favorito la evoluzione della filosofia vichiana dall’iniziale malebranchismo 
alla sua originale interpretazione del lockismo, vale a dire dall’astrattismo 
matematizzante della scuola cartesiana alla pienezza e concretezza della storia (Costa, 
Genesi del concetto vichiano di “fantasia” ). 

La critica arcadica era impegnata nella difesa di una tradizione letteraria che 
risaliva al Medioevo, in polemica con una letteratura che aveva dimenticato il proprio 
passato nel nome di una modernita intesa come unico classicismo possibile (quello 
appunto del secolo di Luigi XIV). Proprio per questo gli arcadi tendevano a privile- 
giare testi che presupponevano modelli poetico-retorici, caratterizzati da una liberta 
fantastica non consentita dal classicismo francese. Si trattava di mettere in luce 
favorevole poeti appartenenti ad epoche pil! o meno remote, che non si potevano 
intendere e gustare senza porli in una prospettiva storica. Valga per tutti l’esempio di 
Dante, la cui ricezione nel primo Settecento é stata oggetto di una accurata indagine.® 
Queste circostanze sembravano fatte apposta per favorire un ruolo privilegiato della 
cultura italiana nella storia complessa di quel fenomeno che Friedrich Meinecke ha 
chiamato le origini dello storicismo (Le origini dello storicismo) e Carlo Antoni la 
lotta contro la ragione (La lotta contro la ragione; Lo storicismo). 


4. Sulla base di questa rapida ricognizione, si pud affermare con certezza che 1’ Arcadia 
in quanto accademia ebbe un peso specifico soprattutto nella storia della eta dell’oro, 
la quale appartiene di diritto a quella del pensiero utopico, tracciata a grandi linee da 
Frank E. Manuel e Fritzie P. Manuel (Utopian Thought in the Western World), mentre 
numerosi arcadi, pil o meno impegnati nella vita dell’accademia, parteciparono alla 
evoluzione della coscienza italiana in senso illuministico e storicistico. Da questo 
punto di vista, la nota tesi fubiniana della sostanziale continuita fra primo e secondo 
Settecento risulta ancora valida nelle sue istanze fondamentali. L’interrogativo del 


8 Pietropaolo, Dante Studies in the Age of Vico. Scaglione ha definito questo libro “a first-rate 
work on an important subject” (“New Vico Studies”). 


428 Italian Bookshelf 


titolo di questa mia relazione va pertanto risolto in una duplice affermazione: 
l’Arcadia fu una utopia e, nello stesso tempo, un movimento letterario, che fu parte 
integrante di una concreta realta in divenire. 

Prima di concludere, vorrei aggiungere una postilla che mi é stata suggerita da 
una conferenza di Gianni Vattimo, tenuta presso la Facolta di Storia della Universita 
di Barcellona il 4 maggio 1990 e stampata nel pid autorevole quotidiano madrileno.? 
Presentando la traduzione spagnola di un suo volume, La sociedad transparente 
(Paidos), Vattimo propone una visione postmoderna della Spagna, come alternativa 
ai paesi che hanno avuto uno sviluppo basato sulla razionalizzazione e la 
modernizzazione di stampo weberiano. Mentre questi rappresenterebbero una 
concezione della modernita capitalistico-ascetico-protestante, rigida, meccanica e 
fondamentalmente repressiva, la Spagna consentirebbe di intravedere una modernita 
diversa, improntata a una concezione dell’esistenza alternativa, la cui giustificazione 
filosofica verrebbe dalla concezione nietzschiana della morte di Dio, ossia dalla 
perdita della certezza di un ordine rigoroso, etico-razionale del mondo. In un periodo 
storico come il nostro, in cui il principio di realta sembra consumarsi e venir meno, 
Vattimo addita nelle culture neolatine dei valori pit’ profondi di quelli contenuti nelle 
culture anglosassoni. Queste considerazioni di Vattimo, che tiene conto anche della 
cultura barocca ¢€ del suo ritorno nella ermeneutica, potrebbero consentire una diversa 
impostazione del problema dell’ Arcadia. I] fenomeno arcadico, che in questa relazione 
@ stato studiato alla luce della modernita anglosassone, improntata al pensiero forte, 
non va per caso considerato anche alla luce del postmodernismo dei paesi neolatini, 
improntato al pensiero debole? La risposta a questo interrogativo richiederebbe 
un’altra relazione. 

University of California, Berkeley 


Opere citate 


Adelmann H. B., Marcello Malpighi and the Evolution of Embryology, Ithaca, 
Comell U.P, 1966. 

Anonimo, Del sublime, testo, traduzione e note di A. Rostagni, aggiornamento di L. 
Belloni, Milano, Nuovo Istituto Editoriale Italiano, 1982. 

Antoni C., La lotta contro la ragione, Firenze, Sansoni, 1942. 

, Lo storicismo, Torino, Edizioni Radio Italiana, 1957. 

Gli arcadi dal 1690 al 1800, Onomasticon, a c. di A. M. Giorgetti Vichi, Roma, 
Tipografica editrice romana, 1977. 

Binni W., Poetica e poesia nel Settecento italiano, in L’Arcadia e il Metastasio, 
Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 1963. 

Boileau-Despréaux N., Dissertation sur la Joconde, Arrest Burlesque, Traité du 
Sublime, ac. di C.-H. Boudhors, Paris, Société Les Belles Lettres, 1942. 

Cipriani A., Contributo per una storia politica dell'Arcadia settecentesca, “Arcadia, 
accademia letteraria italiana, Atti e Memorie”, serie 3a, vol. V, fasc. 2-3 (1971), 
pp. 101-166. 





9 “BE Pais” (edizione internazionale), 7 maggio 1990, pp. 18-19. Questo scritto di Vattimo ha 
avuto una notevole eco giomalistica in Italia: vedi Marcoaldi. 


Italian Bookshelf 429 


La Colonia Renia, Profilo documentario e critico dell'Arcadia bolognese, I, 
Documenti bio-bibliografici, a c. di M. Saccenti, Modena, Mucchi, 1988. 

Convegno indetto in occasione del II centenario della morte di Metastasio, d'intesa 
con Arcadia— Accademia letteraria italiana, Istituto di Studi Romani, Societa 
Italiana di Studi sul sec. XVIII (Roma, 25-27 Maggio 1983), Roma, Accademia 
Nazionale dei Lincei, 1985 (“Atti dei Convegni Lincei’”, 65). 

Costa G., Le antichita germaniche nella cultura italiana da Machiavelli a Vico, 
Napoli, Bibliopolis, 1977. 

, Antonfrancesco Marmi, Claude de Vic e la cultura napoletana, “Bollettino 

del Centro di Studi Vichiani”, IX (1979), p. 140-146. 

, Un avversario di Addison e Voltaire: John Shebbeare, “alias” Battista 

Angeloni, S. J., Contributo allo studio dei rapporti italo-britannici da Salvini a 

Baretti (con due inediti addisoniani), “Atti della Accademia delle Scienze di 

Torino, II: Classe di Scienze morali, storiche e filologiche", vol. 99 

(1964-1965), pp. 565-761. 

, La cerchia dei duchi di Laurenzano e una collaborazione di Vico, “Bollettino 

del Centro di Studi vichiani”, X (1980), pp. 36-58. 

, Clashing Traditions in the Eighteenth Century: Angelo Calogera, Scipione 

Maffei, and Giuseppe Maria Bianchini, “Forum Italicum”, vol. 18, n. 2 (autunno 

1984), pp. 278-301. 

, Documenti per una storia dei rapporti anglo-romani nel Settecento, in Saggi 
e ricerche sul Settecento, Napoli, Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Storici, 1968, pp. 
371-452. 

, Genesi del concetto vichiano di “fantasia’’, in Phantasia-Imaginatio, V° 
Colloquio internazionale, Roma, 9-11 gennaio 1986, ac. di M. Fattori e M. 
Bianchi, Roma, Edizioni dell’Ateneo, 1988, pp. 309-365. 

, La leggenda dei secoli d’ oro nella letteratura italiana, Bari, Laterza, 1972. 

, Longinus's Treatise “On the Sublime” in the Age of Arcadia, “Nouvelles de 
la République des Lettres”, 1981, fasc. I, pp. 65-86. 

, Thomas Blackwell fra Gravina e Vico, “Bollettino del Centro di Studi 
Vichiani”, V (1975), pp. 40-55. 

Croce B., L’Arcadia e la Poesia del Settecento, in La letteratura italiana del Settecento, 
Bari: Laterza, 1949. 

Dionisotti, C. Regioni e letteratura, in Storia d'Italia, 5,1 documenti, 2, Torino, 
Einaudi, 1973. 

Dorris G. E., Paolo Rolli and the Italian Circle in London, 1715-1744, The 
Hague-Paris, Mouton, 1967. 

Ferrone V., Scienza natura religione. Mondo newtoniano e cultura italiana nel primo 
Settecento, Napoli, Jovene, 1982. 

Forlini A., recensione di La Colonia Renia, Profilo documentario e critico 
dell'Arcadia bolognese,1, Documenti bio-bibliografici, a c. di M. Saccenti, 
Modena, Mucchi, 1988, in “Intersezioni”, IX, n. 3 (dicembre 1989), pp. 
571-575. 

Franceschetti A., Arcadia, in Dizionario critico della letteratura italiana, ac. di V. 
Branca, Torino, UTET, 1973, I, pp. 95-102. 

, Il concetto di meraviglia nelle poetiche della prima Arcadia, “Lettere 
italiane", XXI (1969), pp. 62-88. 














430 Italian Bookshelf 


Fubini M., Le “Osservazioni” del Muratori al Petrarca e la critica letteraria nell’ eta 
dell'Arcadia, in Dal Muratori al Baretti, Studi sulla critica e sulla cultura del 
Settecento, Bari, Laterza, 1968, pp. 55-176. 

, Vico e Bouhours, in Stile e umanita di Giambattista Vico, Milano, Ricciardi, 
1965, pp. 135-146. 

Graf A., L’anglomania e l'influsso inglese in Italia nel secolo XVIII, Torino, 
Loescher, 1911. 

Gray’s Poems, Letters and Essays, introduzione di J. Drinkwater, note biografiche di 
L. Gibbs, London, Dent, 1970. 

Maffei S., Dell’ antica condizione di Verona, in Opere, Venezia, Presso Antonio Curti, 
1790, I. 

Maier B., Walter Binni “storico-critico” dell’ Arcadia e del Neoclassicismo, in Poetica 
e metodo storico-critico nell’ opera di Walter Binni, a c. di M. Costanzo et al., 
Roma, Bonacci, 1985, pp. 278-280. 

Manvel F. E. e F. P. Manuel, Utopian Thought in the Western World, Cambridge, The 
Belknap Press of Harvard UP, 1979. 

Marcoaldi F., La Spagna luccica, la Spagna pensa, “Repubblica”, 15 giugno 1990, 
pp. 26-27. 

Mattioli E., Gli studi di Gustavo Costa sul“Sublime” in Italia, “Studi e problemi di 
critica testuale”, 36 (aprile 1988), pp. 139-155. 

Meinecke F., Le origini dello storicismo, traduzione di M. Biscione, C. Gundolf e G. 
Zamboni, Firenze, Sansoni, 1954. 

Merolla R., Lo Stato della Chiesa, in Letteratura italiana, ac. di A. Rosa, Storia e 
geografia, Il, L’eta moderna, Il, Torino, Einaudi, 1988. 

Metastasio e il mondo musicale, a c. di M. T. Muraro, con una premessa di G. Folena, 
Firenze, Olschki, 1986. 

Muratori A., Della perfetta poesia italiana . . . con le annotazioni critiche di Anton 
Maria Salvini, Milano, Dalla societa tipografica dei classici italiani, 1821. 

Pietropaolo D., Dante Studies in the Age of Vico, Ottawa, Dovehouse, 1989. 

, The “Editio Princeps” of Boccaccio’s Commentary on the “Divine Comedy” , 
“Quaderni d’italianistica”, VII, n. 2 (1986), pp. 153-163. 

Quondam A., Nuovi documenti sulla crisi dell'Arcadia nel 1711, “Arcadia, accademia 
letteraria italiana, Atti e Memorie”, Serie 3a, vol . WI, fasc. 1 ( 1973), pp. 
105-228. 

Rotta G., Francesco Bianchini, in Dizionario biografico degli italiani, 10 (1968), 
pp. 187-194. 

Sarkézy P., La funzione della poetica arcadica nella formazione del classicismo 
illuministico delle letterature dell’ Europa centro-orientale, in Transactions of the 
Fifth International Congress on the Enlightenment, IV, Oxford, Voltaire 
Foundation, 1980 (‘Studies on Voltaire and the Eighteenth Century”, 193). 

Scaglione A., recensione di Pietropaolo D., Dante Studies in the Age of Vico, Ottawa, 
Dovehouse, 1989, in “New Vico Studies", VII (1989), pp. 139-141. 

Simoni A., Leopardi critique littéraire dans le “Zibaldone” et 1' “epistolario” , Aix-en- 
Provence, Faculté des Lettres, 1957. 

Stendhal, Vie de Henri Brulard, ac. di H. Martineau, Paris, Garnier, 1961. 

Zeno A., Lettere di Apostolo Zeno, Venezia, Appresso Pietro Valsasense, 1752. 


Italian Bookshelf 431 
Beatrice Collina 


Una commediografa in convento: Beatrice del Sera e il teatro delle 
monache. Considerazioni in margine alla lettura di Amor di virti. 
Commedia in cinque atti, 1548. A c. di Elissa Weaver, Longo, 
Ravenna, 1990. 


Virginia Wolf si chiede cosa sarebbe stato della sorella di Shakespeare se, a parita di 
risorse intellettuali, avesse deciso di intraprendere la stessa carriera del fratello; e, 
dopo aver considerato i numerosi ostacoli e le circostanze avverse che a quel tempo si 
sarebbero opposte alla realizzazione del progetto, conclude che, molto 
probabilmente, avrebbe fatto una brutta fine. Per Beatrice del Sera, cugina di 
Michelangelo, non si tratté neppure di scegliere: quando nacque a Firenze nel 1515 in 
una famiglia di mercanti, forse il suo destino era gia stato deciso: come per la maggior 
parte delle bambine del suo rango a cui il padre non poteva o non voleva assegnare 
una dote, anche per lei, fin dai primi passi, il mondo si identifica col convento 
domenicano di San Niccolé di Prato, dove negli anni dell'adolescenza prendera i voti e 
dal quale non uscira fino alla morte, avvenuta nel 1585. 

A quali gradi di cultura poteva accedere una suora in convento, quali opere poteva 
leggere e pill in generale quali erano le letture raccomandate per |’educazione di una 
giovane donna che cresceva nella prima meta del Cinquecento? La voce autorevole di 
Juan Luis Vives, precettore di principesse, nell’opera De institutione feminae 
christianae, consigliava i Vangeli, gli Atti degli Apostoli, il vecchio testamento, i 
padri della Chiesa, le vite dei santi. Ma soprattutto indicava un lungo elenco di opere 
che non si dovevano leggere “libri pestiferi . . . scritti da uomini odiosi, scostumati, 
ignoranti et avvolti ne vitij et sporcitie” (p. 77, trad. italiana di Lauro Modonese, 
Venezia, 1546), tra i quali ai primi posti comparivano le storie d’amore, come quelle 
di Florio e Biancifiore nel Filocolo di Boccaccio. Ma per un caso fortunato nel 
convento di Prato dove Beatrice del Sera pass tutta la vita — @ lei stessa a 
raccontarlo — “furono sgombre molte carte. . . . E di quante robe ve ne fussi, io solo 
andavo a leggere libri. . . . Infra questi libri m’occorse il Filocolo di Messer Giovanni 
Boccaccio, quale molto ci piacque. . . .” Probabilmente i superiori della futura 
reverenda madre non furono troppo scrupolosi nell’applicare alla lettera le 
indicazioni dell’illustre istitutore. Se non fosse stato per questo concorso di 
circostanze che forni solidi punti di riferimento a una giovane avida di letture, per 
quanto priva di un curriculum di studi sistematico, probabilmente il testo della 
commedia Amor di virtué non sarebbe mai stato scritto. Ma nonostante le difficolta e 
le resistenze che dovette certamente affrontare, proprio in convento Beatrice non 
solo diventa capace di interpretare la propria condizione, ma riesce ad esprimerla e a 
renderla pubblica, letteralmente a metterla in scena. Cosi nasce Amor di virtu, 
commedia spirituale in versi, scritta negli anni 1548-49, e probabilmente recitata 
dalle stesse monache, durante i festeggiamenti del Carnevale, come era consuetudine, 
davanti a un pubblico composto, oltre che dalle suore, dai loro parenti e forse da altri 
visitatori del monastero. 

E infatti a imitazione del Filocolo di Boccaccio, miracolosamente capitato nel 
suo convento, che suor Beatrice del Sera scrive la sua opera — restituitaci ora in tutta 
la sua vivacita e freschezza dalla ricerca rigorosa e dalla partecipe cura di Elissa 


432 Italian Bookshelf 


Weaver, dopo pit! di quattro secoli che giaceva manoscritta e dimenticata 
nell’archivio di una biblioteca di Firenze. Questa edizione riproduce integralmente il 
codice Riccardiano 2932 che, insieme al testo della commedia, comprende altre 
composizioni in versi della stessa autrice, un sonetto anonimo a lei dedicato e la 
“Storia scritta per il piacere di leggere e non per recitare” (da cui é tratto il passo 
citato sopra), ed @ preceduta da una dettagliata introduzione della curatrice che, oltre ad 
analizzare il contenuto e la struttura dell’opera, ricostruisce la biografia di Beatrice del 
Sera nel contesto pil ampio della societa e della cultura del primo Cinquecento, 
delineando in particolare i caratteri di una tradizione poco conosciuta come il teatro 
delle monache. 

Se si escludono le opere drammatiche di Rosvita, canonichessa del monastero di 
Gandersheim e quelle di Hildegard von Bingen, poche sono le notizie segnalate 
intorno al teatro claustrale scritto o messo in scena dalle monache. Pit conosciute 
sono le commedie sacre che autori come Giovanni Maria Cecchi e Giovanni Ruccellai 
destinavano al teatro claustrale; quasi completamente ignoti, invece, 1 drammi e le 
composizioni scritti direttamente dalle suore, contenute in manoscritti anonimi, in 
gran parte dispersi negli archivi (di suor Plautilla di Messer Ruggieri della Casa, ad 
esempio, si conosce solo il nome, anche se, da documenti d’archivio risulta che fu 
autrice di diverse commedie). Probabilmente la tradizione di rappresentare commnedie 
sacre risale al Medioevo, ma solo nella prima meta del Cinquecento e per tutto il 
Seicento le testimonianze diventano pit’ numerose e le recite perdono il carattere 
esclusivamente sacro, con l’ingresso nel monastero femminile del teatro e della 
commedia classicheggianti, allestiti soprattutto nel periodo del Carnevale. Spesso 
nelle sacre rappresentazioni fanno irruzione elementi profani: il mondo entra in 
convento attraverso la messa in scena di beffe, farse, parodie, espresse sovente con 
una liberta di linguaggio tale da provocare accese polemiche riguardo alla loro liceita 
anche fuori dall’ambiente religioso. I] clima di rovesciamento che caratterizza il 
Carnevale sembra autorizzare e giustificare il teatro claustrale e allenta in parte il 
controllo delle autorita ecclesiastiche. Che, nonostante tutto, dopo le periodiche 
visite ai monasteri, spesso lamentano la presenza di estranei fra il pubblico o 1’uso di 
abiti maschili da parte delle attrici e dettano norme per il contenimento del fenomeno 
e di “altri cosi fatti giochi poco dicevoli in luoghi santi e fra persone religiose” (fra 
Serafino Razzi, cit. p. 25, Introduzione). Proprio a queste testimonianze indirette, 
provenienti in gran parte dalla Toscana, tendenti a contenere il fenomeno, senza 
tuttavia proibirlo, si debbono le pit importanti informazioni sul teatro delle 
monache. 

Beatrice del Sera scrive dunque la sua commedia per una recita di suore. Sulla 
falsariga del Filocolo di Boccaccio, Amor di virta narra la storia in cinque atti di 
Aurabeatrice e Florido, i quali, divisi da avverse circostanze familiari, dopo 
molteplici, avventurose peripezie, riescono finalmente a ricongiungersi. Certo il 
testo di Boccaccio, con la sua varieta di personaggi e di figure, con i suoi temi 
fantastici, con la bella favola d’amore a lieto fine, deve aver affascinato la giovane 
del Sera, costretta a vivere rinchiusa dentro al “‘sasso” (le mura del convento). Ma 
l’opera di Boccaccio fornisce solo il canovaccio della narrazione, nella quale la suora 
Si inserisce originalmente, trasponendo nella finzione narrativa le sue personali 
vicende e convogliando nella storia le proprie esigenze artistiche. Beatrice del Sera 
non é@ infatti soggiogata e schiacciata dalle ragioni letterarie e autobiografiche di 





Italian Bookshelf 433 


Boccaccio, ma ne reinventa la storia trasformandola in propria biografia, luogo di 
riflessione sulla condizione di monaca e pil in generale sull’essere donna nel suo 
tempo. 

I temi ricorrenti proposti dalla suora di Prato sono solo in parte spirituali: la 
metafora dell’amore di Aurabeatrice per la poesia (identificata con Florido), che 
consente di accedere a una felicita che prelude a quella della vita eterna, @ solo uno dei 
piani di lettura dell’opera. Una vena sottile di sensualita attraversa tutta la commedia, 
nel difficile, ma riuscito tentativo di conciliare appunto amore e virti. Qualche anno 
prima che Beatrice del Sera scrivesse Amor di virtu, Gilles Corrozet nella sua 
Hecatomgraphie rappresenta l’emblema “Amour accompagnee de virtu”. L’amore, 
sotto le spoglie di Cupido, guarda una donna vestita castamente e onestamente 
atteggiata: le due figure, ciascuna su di un piedistallo si fronteggiano. L’amore 
sensuale, dice l’autore, non vale niente se non @ accompagnato dalla virti. E proprio 
l’amor profano, inteso come allegoria dell’amor sacro (gia nel Cantico dei cantici), 
fornisce la giustificazione simbolica attraverso la quale il personaggio di 
Aurabeatrice @ autorizzato a esprimere tutta la carica del suo erotismo nel lamento per 
l’assenza dell’amato (“E se per lacrimare io fussi fonte/ da Giove convertita, forse 
almeno/ in me si bagnerebbe il mio signore;/ s’io fussi cane, in grembo gli starei,/ e 
se mirto fussi io, o fior di Prato,/ s’appoggerebbe a me o giacerebbe/ quando da’ suoi 
desiri afflitto posa”), senza che l’autrice debba incorrere nel sospetto di trattare 
materie poco pertinenti al suo stato religioso. 

Beatrice del Sera non é una mistica, come la maggior parte delle religiose di cui 
fin qui si conosceva |’opera, si direbbe viceversa che le estasi non le fossero davvero 
congeniali. Saldamente ancorata alla mentalita mercantile della famiglia d’origine, la 
monaca di San Niccold di Prato piuttosto che intrattenere rapporti privilegiati col 
divino, si preoccupa di definire le ragioni economiche e sociali che l’hanno costretta 
a una vita da reclusa perché, come scrivera un’altra suora un secolo pit tardi, “‘tali son 
quelle monache, ch’involontariamente racchiuse, benché innocentissime, son come 
ree, dannate a una perpetua prigione” (Arcangela Tarrabotti, La semplicita ingannata, 
1654). Numerosi sono ad esempio nell’opera i riferimenti al potere d’acquisto del 
denaro. La monaca domenicana figlia di mercanti non nutre dubbi sul fatto che la 
liberta sia una merce che si acquista ad alto prezzo: quando la protagonista della 
commedia, verra tenuta prigioniera in una torre, solo attraverso i fiorini d’oro Florido 
riuscira a liberarla, corrompendo le guardie. L’autrice torna sul tema piv volte, in 
particolare in uno dei sonetti premessi alla commedia, nel quale riflette sulla triste 
sorte di chi, come lei, priva di una dote che le avrebbe consentito un matrimonio 
all’altezza della sua classe sociale, é costretta a vivere “‘sol’ dentr’al sasso”: 


Quant’ amor fusse mai costant’e forte 
e qual priego del figlio al padre umano 
e quanta forz’ avessi armata mano 

nel difender la vita dalla morte, 


mai di pieta poterno aprir le porte, 
anzi ogn’altier disegno venne vano; 
non la bonta ci valse, oh caso strano, 
né senza 1’OR potessi vincere la sorte. 


434 Italian Bookshelf 


Quest’ annulla le leggi, allaccia i cuori, 
a Florido fé basse 1’ alte mura 
e della torre pian l’orrendo passo. 


Miete chi n’ha di sue fatiche onori, 
ond’io che pover’ son, sol’ dentr’al sasso, 
spero nel ben della vita futura. 


(p. 91) 


Il tema della solitudine e della prigionia tra le mura del convento ricorre un po’ in 
tutto il testo della commedia. Ma il “‘sasso”’, la “torre’’, 1’“‘alte mura” non sono solo i 
simboli della reclusione delle monache, ma delle donne in generale; Beatrice del Sera 
non nutre illusioni sulla vita solitaria e separata, chiusa a sua volta dentro alle mura 
domestiche, che attende la donna sposata. 

D’altra parte viene da chiedersi se, conducendo la vita “normale” di moglie e 
madre, la monaca di Prato avrebbe potuto affinare quelle stesse doti di scrittrice di cui 
andava fiera. Certo le mura del convento costituiscono i limiti invalicabili della sua 
esistenza quotidiara, tuttavia non decretano la fine di un’ immaginazione ricca e 
creativa. Abbiamo visto infatti che proprio nel monastero Beatrice legge testi sacri e 
profani, assimila nozioni e teorie, affina ed esercita le proprie doti di memoria e 
infine compie, attraverso l’invenzione poetica, viaggi immaginari, proiezioni e 
finzioni di un movimento, di una pienezza di vita, di una ricchezza di relazioni e di 
affetti che a lei erano stati negati. La sua volonta aveva dovuto piegarsi a quella di un 
padre non certo pit crudele di altri. A quel tempo ogni forma di ribellione, diversa 
dalla mera protesta, era impensabile, e comunque, quando arrivava |’eta della ragione, 
i giochi erano fatti, i voti presi, le alternative inesistenti. Nella maggior parte dei 
casi le figlie erano pedine di una politica familiare che vedeva nel matrimonio una 
forma di promozione economica e sociale: gli unici ruoli che una donna poteva 
svolgere onorevolmente erano quelli di vergine (condizione non definitiva, ma di 
passaggio), moglie, madre, suora e vedova. Non é difficile immaginare dunque che fra 
tutte, la condizione decisamente peggiore fosse quella della donna non sposata — 
l’unica a sfuggire a una definizione socialmente riconosciuta — che spesso passava 
tutta la vita in casa dei fratelli con un ruolo subordinato e servile. Se la strada del 
convento non poteva complessivamente essere considerata il peggiore dei mali, 
durissima doveva essere peraltro la situazione di chi ci entrava contro voglia, spesso 
in un’eta critica, come l’adolescenza. Arcangela Tarabotti, ne La semplicita 
ingannata, sfoghera tutta la sua rabbia contro l’ipocrisia di quei padri che, con 
l’inganno, vogliono “liberarsi dell’aggravio delle femmine, prima ch’elle siano 
arrivate a farsi capaci d’elettione e conoscere cid che devono abbracciare, o fuggire” 
(Tarabotti, p. 84) e che “violentano [le figlie] a racchiudersi fra’ Chiostri” e descrive 
minutamente con toni strazianti la cerimonia di assunzione dei voti che raggiunge il 
proprio culmine simbolico e rituale nella “barbarie” del taglio dei capelli (Tarabotti, 
p. 44). 

Ma Beatrice del Sera non é una ribelle dai toni aspri come Arcangela Tarabotti 
che nelle sue opere urla tutta la propria rabbia, trovando nella scrittura solo un 
riscatto parziale alla propria impotente ribellione. I toni della sua protesta sono pit 


Italian Bookshelf 435 


pacati, pil’ rassegnati, la sua analisi @ lucida e precisa e vacilla solo di fronte alla 
possibilita di veder censurato il proprio lavoro. Degli espedienti e della prudenza che 
si impongono a chi, come lei, @ donna e per di pill suora, @ intessuto tutto il testo 
della commedia. La cautela nell’esporre idee che sotto un’altra forma probabilmente 
non sarebbero piaciute ai suoi superiori, si manifesta anche nello stratagemma di 
affidare la difesa delle donne a un personaggio maschile ( Mario, discutendo 
animatamente con un altro personaggio che inveisce contro l’imprevedibilita delle 
donne, denuncia |’isolamento in cui vengono confinate esclamando: “Le son donne e 
non pitture/ d’applicarle ad un muro” vv. 630-31), che ha la funzione di sviare 
eventuali sospetti di una critica diretta da parte dell’autrice all’autorita del padre o a 
quella ecclesiastica. Oltre a conciliare nell’invenzione letteraria due estremi tanto 
apparentemente opposti come amore e virtu, si direbbe che la monaca di Prato riesca a 
fare di necessita virti, a vivere cioé la condizione di monaca forzata non da 
emarginata all’interno del convento (come pit tardi accadra invece a Arcangela 
Tarabotti e a suor Virginia di Leyva), ma da leader, capace di canalizzare la propria 
energia e di esprimere la propria intelligenza pure in un ambiente che tendenzialmente 
non le era congeniale. La scarna biografia di Beatrice del Sera testimonia 
l’atteggiamento costruttivo che probabilmente informd la sua azione anche negli 
anni pid’ maturi; la volonta di vivere pienamente un’esistenza da altri in qualche modo 
negata e sepolta, quella stessa abilita nell’esprimere apertamente opinioni senza 
ferire la sensibilita di chi legge o ascolta, faranno di Beatrice una suora capace di 
convogliare sulle proprie idee il consenso degli altri. Tanto da essere nominata priora 
del convento nel 1562, vale a dire in un periodo particolarmente delicato per la storia 
religiosa come quello della vigilia della chiusura del Concilio di Trento, che, proprio 
in quegli anni emanava una serie di disposizioni tendenti a limitare 1’autonomia degli 
ordini monastici (Decretum de regularibus et monialibus), norme a cui non tutti i 
conventi vollero adeguarsi senza proteste. 

Per troppo tempo il convento femminile @ stato considerato di volta in volta 
sotto i punti di vista estremi di luogo dell’estasi o della perdizione: da una parte Santa 
Teresa (nata, fra l’altro, lo stesso anno di Beatrice del Sera), dall’altra Virginia di 
Leyva, meglio conosciuta come la monaca di Monza. Non bisogna dimenticare invece 
che, durante tutto il Cinquecento, il monastero era anche il luogo deputato 
all’educazione delle giovani di famiglia altoborghese e nobile e che proprio nei 
conventi gran parte delle scrittrici del periodo dovette ricevere, insieme ai precetti 
morali miranti a formare le virti cristiane, anche i primi rudimenti di 
alfabetizzazione. Nella “Storia”, Beatrice del Sera ricostruisce la genesi dei propri 
interessi culturali e suggerisce alcune chiavi di lettura della sua opera, sottolineando 
orgogliosamente il carattere autodidatta della propria istruzione (“e pare che metta 
meraviglia a molti che una stata sempre rinchiusa, senz’avere studiato 0 visto paesi e 
maniere del mondo, facci quelle cose che di me si veggono nate; al che io rispondo 
che sono molti ammaestrati nelle scuole che non sanno quello che hanno udito, 
nonché dare del suo”) e istituisce fra 1’altro una curiosa e significativa analogia tra le 
sue doti letterarie e le sue abilita artistiche di fine ricamatrice di “effigi” ( 11 ricamo era 
considerata una vera e propria arte a quei tempi, almeno ai livelli pit alti), 
sottolineando — a riprova dell’universale riconoscimento e sempre memore delle 
proprie origini mercantili —— che “quest’opre provano d’esser state ben fatte, sendomi 
state ben pagate”. 


436 Italian Bookshelf 


Le fortunate coincidenze che fecero della monaca di Prato una donna capace di 
esprimersi attraverso la poesia sembrano accomunare un po’ tutte le scrittrici del 
periodo. Nella loro vita e nelle loro opere ricorrono spesso analogie difficili da 
trascurare o da considerare pure coincidenze. Non pud essere un caso, ad esempio, che 
il gruppo delle scrittrici veneziane ( Modesta Pozzo, Lucrezia Marinelli, Arcangela 
Tarabotti) appartenga alla classe dei “cittadini originari”, notai, avvocati, medici a 
cui venivano affidati importanti uffici nel governo della Repubblica proprio in virtt 
delle capacita professionali acquisite e dimostrate. Si tratta di ceti sociali emergenti 
dell’alta borghesia o della nuova nobilta, famiglie i cui membri sapevano di dover 
contare, per raggiungere una posizione socialmente riconosciuta, non tanto su 
privilegi detenuti per nascita, quanto su abilita professionali, intellettuali e 
imprenditoriali acquisite attraverso lo studio e il lavoro. La monaca di San Niccolt 
appartiene a una famiglia di mercanti che nel Seicento diventeranno nobili. Anche in 
lei, come nelle altre scrittrici, @ presente l’orgogliosa consapevolezza di essere 
l’artefice delle proprie capacitaé, acquisite attraverso un arduo lavoro di lunga e 
paziente costruzione. E, come abbiamo visto, Beatrice del Sera pensa che il risultato 
di questo lavoro — sia ricamo o scrittura — abbia un prezzo direttamente 
proporzionale alla sua qualita. 

Durante il Cinquecento e il Seicento la maggior parte delle donne, anche 
appartenenti alle classi sociali pit alte, non andavano a scuola. I rudimenti del 
leggere e dello scrivere venivano acquisiti o nel convento femminile o a casa sotto la 
guida di un maestro privato. Pressoché tutte le letterate denunciano amaramente e con 
rimpianto l’assenza di una formazione che non fosse solo finalizzata all’acquisizione 
delle doti di moglie o madre. Per molte di loro l’occasione fortunata di affrancamento 
dall’ignoranza venne dalla sollecitudine di un parente colto, particolarmente 
sensibile alle capacita che manifestavano fin da piccole e senza troppi pregiudizi nei 
confronti delle donne, per altre il convento o la diretta lettura di libri sacri e profani 
costitui l’impulso a una formazione autonomamente acquisita, lontano da scuole e da 
maestri. Modesta Pozzo de’ Zorzi, autrice de JI merito delle donne (Venezia, 1600), 
dopo aver ricevuto una sommaria educazione in convento, ebbe come maestro lo zio, 
il trattatista Giovanni Niccolé Doglioni, che la segui e la indirizzo a lungo negli studi 
e infine la incoraggid a pubblicare le sue opere; Lucrezia Marinelli, autrice a sua volta 
di numerose composizioni in prosa e in poesia, si form6 sotto la guida del padre, il 
noto medico Giovanni Marinelli, scrittore di trattati inerenti la medicina delle donne; 
suor Arcangela Tarabotti coltivd, da dentro il convento, illustri amicizie con mollti 
accademici Incogniti, che fecero da tramite fra lei e l’attivo e variegato mondo 
culturale della Venezia del Seicento. Per tutte la pratica della scrittura costitui 
un’esperienza faticosa e contrastata: scrivere non fu per loro una professione, ma 
un’attivita da svolgere ai margini di un’altra predominante, domestica o religiosa, che 
prevedeva oneri del tutto diversi. Per letterate autodidatte e non professioniste, il 
tempo dedicato allo studio e alla scrittura era sempre tempo sottratto ad altre 
incombenze. Ciascuna di loro lamenta la diseguaglianza di trattamento 
nell’educazione di maschi e femmine e, se da un lato rimpiange la mancanza di 
sistematicita negli studi, dall’altro vanta il maggior merito di chi @ riuscito a farsi da 
sé. In effetti se suor Beatrice e le altre letterate avvertono i limiti di una cultura 
conquistata autonomamente lontano da scuole e accademie, forse proprio a questi 
limiti si deve l’originalita di testi non appiattiti dalla mera imitazione dei modelli 


Italian Bookshelf 437 


letterari invalsi, dove la dimensione autobiografica e i temi del quotidiano, pid legati 
all’esperienza direttamente acquisita assumono un’importanza decisiva. Dietro alla 
citazione dotta o al riferimento erudito, emergono nitidamente, le amare 
considerazioni sull’educazione femminile, la rabbia per una condizione di vita non 
scelta, il desiderio di liberta, l’analisi della ragioni storiche, economiche, sociali 
della condizione femminile e della donna scrittrice in particolare, ]’attenzione ai pil 
minuti aspetti del privato. Se nei loro trattati autori come Baldassar Castiglione e 
Leon Battista Alberti dettano le norme astratte del dover essere della donna, le 
scrittrici del Cinque e Seicento, sia pure in opere meno eleganti ed erudite, aprono 
ampi spiragli sulla loro condizione reale, sui sogni, sui desideri, sulle aspirazioni che 
dominarono la loro vita. 

Quante potrebbero essere le opere, come |’Amor di virtu di Beatrice del Sera, 
rimaste sepolte per secoli in quelli che Jacques Le Goff chiama “gli archivi del 
silenzio”? Considerando solo il Cinquecento, pochi sono gli scritti di donne che 
hanno visto la luce, molti quelli mai pubblicati. Silenzio @ parola chiave tanto nella 
vita e nell’opera di Beatrice del Sera, quanto nelle vicende occorse al manoscritto 
della sua commedia. Indicato dai precettisti dell’epoca come massimo omamento 
(sulla scorta dell’autorita di Aristotele, per il quale “silentium mulieri praestat 
omamentum”, Politica, primo libro), il silenzio si addice alla donna come |’eloquenza 
all’uomo. Per Beatrice, poi, in quanto monaca, la clausura oris era la regola. Votata 
all’assenza dal mondo, alla non visibilita, chiusa nelle mura del convento, sapeva di 
scrivere non per dare alle stampe, ma per la ristretta cerchia delle sue consorelle. A 
questa fitta rete di silenzi altri silenzi si sono intersecati e sovrapposti. I] silenzio dei 
manoscritti che giacciono negli archivi non catalogati o anonimi (che “anonymous 
was a woman” é ormai pill di una mera ipotesi) e quello della storia e della critica 
letteraria su di essi. Questo molteplice e stratificato involucro di silenzi, che Beatrice 
del Sera infranse gia pit di quattro secoli fa con la scrittura della sua commedia, viene 
ora rimosso dal lavoro di Elissa Weaver, che ha sottratto a quegli archivi un 
documento prezioso, testimonianza di una presenza attiva e originale di scrittrici nei 
monasteri e ha fatto luce su un genere letterario, il teatro delle monache, quasi del 
tutto sconosciuto. Si tratta di un orizzonte di ricerca inedito che si presenta ricco di 
prospettive e di ulteriori scoperte, e restituisce una dimensione, uno spazio, una 
dignita a soggetti letterari di cui prima si ignorava anche solo 1’esistenza. 

Intorno e dentro il testo della commedia di Beatrice del Sera, Elissa Weaver 
compie un’ampia, attenta, rigorosa ricognizione critica, storica e filologica che va 
dalla minuziosa ricerca dei documenti d’archivio, all’accurata scelta dei criteri 
d’edizione. La sua introduzione ha il merito di accentuare non solo e non tanto il 
valore letterario del testo, quanto il suo significato specifico di testimonianza 
fortemente soggettiva e, allo stesso tempo, ampiamente sintomatica di una mentalita 
e di un ambiente ancora cosi poco indagati. Ci auguriamo che in virtt del lavoro 
paziente e intelligente di altri studiosi, tra non molto le tessere rinvenute del mosaico 
siano sufficienti a restituirci l’immagine, anche se un po’ offuscata e deteriorata dal 
tempo — a questo sembra alludere il prezioso frammento di affresco riprodotto in 
prima copertina — di autori la cui opera rischiari certi angoli ancora oscuri della 
nostra storia. 

Universita degli Studi di Bologna 


438 Italian Bookshelf 


aan 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 


Edited with the collaboration of Paolo Cherchi, 
Albert N. Mancini, Gustavo Costa, and John P. Welle 


Leonard G. Sbrocchi. 1989. I verbi italiani: et leurs équivalents 
francais and their English equivalents. New York: LEGAS. Pp. 198. 


In his introductory trilingual essay (in Italian, French and English) to this text, 
Leonard G. Sbrocchi (University of Ottawa) observes that “the majority of those 
studying a foreign language have difficulty in establishing a precise correspondence 
between the verbs of the language to be learned and those of their mother tongue. The 
problem seems to be more accentuated in the case of students who already live in a 
bilingua! or trilingual environment” (13). Such an observation seems obvious in the 
Canadian context since that nation has a longstanding tradition of official 
bilingualism (French-English). 

A trilingual edition of verbal conjugations (Italian, French and English) is a 
unique enterprise whose pedagogical value extends far beyond the confines of its 
intended Canadian audience. Canada, it must be remembered, has an official bilingual 
policy, to support its two largest language groups: Anglophones and Francophones. 
Nevertheless, Italian speakers comprise one of the largest additional linguistic 
minorities in that country with a significant concentration in the Province of 
Ontario, and especially in Toronto. 

Those who might ask if such a book would be useful outside the Canadian context 
are surely not cognizant of the current global situation. First, the ever increasing 
importance of Italian as a language of international communication together with 
French and English cannot be ignored. Second, in the European context, there is the 
European Community with its concomitant economic interdependence and the 
consequent linguistic requirements that this political arrangement demands. 
Moreover, within Western Europe, Switzerland, of course, is officially trilingual 
(French, German, Italian). Third, the importance of Italy, with its longstanding 
international prominence in such areas as fashion, automotive technology, 
architecture, etc., as well as its millennial contributions to all areas of Western 
Civilization (fine arts, literature, opera, theatre, etc.) are additional reasons for this 
language’s continuing appeal to the world community. Fourth, outside the European 
context, in certain regions of the United States increased interest in the study of 
Italian, especially in conjunction with French, continues to increase. Finally, a 
significant interest in the study of Italian exists in Australia with its large Italian- 
speaking immigrant population. The audience for such a trilingual reference work is 
indeed global. 


Italian Bookshelf 439 


It is extremely important to differentiate this basic reference tool from other 
superficially similar publications, which are only bilingual (Italian-English), in 
which an alphabetical listing of verbs with all their conjugations are included. What 
Sbrocchi has accomplished with this book is to provide the reader with a carefully 
constructed text which arranges verbs structurally in the following groups: (1) 
auxiliary verbs (17-24); (2) regular verbs by conjugation class (25-54); (3) irregular 
verbs by conjugation class (first conjugation: 55-63; second conjugation: 65-152); 
and third conjugation: 153-72); and (4) servile, impersonal, defective and 
superabundant verbs (173-86. 

Sbrocchi’s editorial and linguistic contribution to this book is what transforms 
it into a worthwhile and highly recommended reference work. Without his scholarly 
touch, this book would simply be another language text of limited value. 

A very helpful Indice dei verbi/Index des verbes/ Index of Verbs (187-98) 
complements this text. Again, this index is out of the ordinary because there are 
parenthetical notations which provide crucial linguistic information (transitivity 
status, auxiliary required, preposition required, and page reference). Such attention to 
important detail is the mark of an excellent work designed to help rather than hinder 
the user. 

Frank Nuessel 
University of Louisville 


Italiana 1987. Selected Papers from the Proceedings of the Fourth 
Annual Conference of the American Association of Teachers of 
Italian. Ed. Albert N. Mancini and Paolo Giordano. River Forest: 
Rosary College, 1989. Pp. 331. 


Il volume contiene un’abbondante raccolta di interventi di argomento didattico e 
letterario. Ci limiteremo in questa recensione a quelli del secondo gruppo. Parlando di 
Michelangelo poeta, Glauco Cambon (“Tempo, arte e natura nella poesia di 
Michelangelo”) insiste sul nesso inevitabile tra la scultura e la poesia, mentre vede 
nella figura della donna una concezione del tutto originale, benché inizialmente 
mediata da modelli petrarcheschi: “la donna, percepita come intellettualmente pari nel 
dialogo e anzi superiore guida spirituale, diventa il suo tutto: consorella d’arte, 
moglie, madre, figura maieutica. E un mito poetico peculiare al solo Michelangelo 
nella vasta pleiade rinascimentale, e di per sé basta a staccarlo nettamente dal 
mainstream petrarchista cinquecentesco, ad onta del profondo debito che, come ha 
ben rilevato il Girardi, egli ha verso il Petrarca — un Petrarca direttamente rivissuto 
senza la mediazione bembiana” (15-16). 

Nel tentativo di offrire una visione sintetica della varieta e complessita del 
panorama linguistico e culturale italiano, Remo Ceserani (“Differenziazioni culturali 
e linguistiche nella letteratura italiana”) si rifa ai concetti di “‘unita” e “molteplicita” 
della tradizione italiana, e attinge all’idea di “geografia letteraria” gia avanzata dal 
Dionisotti. La parte centrale dell’articolo é in sostanza una recensione dell’opera di 
Giampaolo Dossena, Storia confidenziale della letteratura italiana, “che é al tempo 
stesso una storia confidenziale (cioé divulgativa e conversevole), una storia 


440 Italian Bookshelf 


geografica e una antistoria della letteratura italiana” (20-21). 

Troppo spesso la letteratura italiana viene trattata come un blocco unitario, 
costituito di compartimenti specifici entro i quali le mille varieta della produzione 
letteraria vengono forzate in nome delle etichette e delle definizioni accademiche. 
L’opera di Dossena vuole rompere questo irrigidimento tradizionale e offrire invece 
una visione pit consona alle realta locali. Interessante il discorso sull’antitesi fra 
“urbanita” e ‘“villanita” come tema ricorrente nella tradizione accademica italiana, 
frutto di una distorsione sociale compiuta deliberatamente dalla classe mercantile 
cittadina a danno delle popolazioni agricole. Tipico esempio di tale distorsione le 
traduzione dell’Eneide di Annibal Caro, in cui l’immagine dell’agricoltore italico 
presentata con tratti epici tratti da Virgilio, viene alterata in maniera denigratoria. 

L’intervento di Deborah Contrada (“The Palatino 418, the Moticke Copy, and 
Nineteenth Century Anthologies of Medieval Italian Lyric Poetry”) dimostra come il 
rinnovato interesse nella lirica italiana delle origini nel diciannovesimo secolo, che 
produsse un’abbondante messe di antologie, non si rifece mai all’originale Palatino 
418, ma ad una copia, nota come “Moiicke” con ulteriori modifiche suggerite da criteri 
estetici o semplicemente dall’arbitrio dei curatori. Contiene un interessante raffronto 
di campioni presi parallelamente dal codice Palatino e dalla copia Moiicke. 

Dell’astrologia nel Filocolo del Boccaccio si occupa Steven Grossvogel 
(“Astrology in Boccaccio’s Filocolo”) traendo lo spunto da un libro di Antonio Enzo 
Quaglio pubblicato nel 1967, Scienza e mito nel Boccaccio, nel quale si dimostrava 
come il Boccaccio si fosse servito dei trattati astrologici di Andalone Negro nella 
composizione del Filocolo. I1 Grossvogel si propone di individuare il significato di 
alcune allusioni astrologiche nel Filocolo fondandosi appunto sui suggerimenti del 
libro di Quaglio. 

L’intervento di Davy Carozza (“Thematic Transformation in Ariosto, Tasso, 
Spenser, Camées and Milton”) riprende alcuni motivi dello studio di Giamatti The 
Earthly Paradise and the Renaissance Epic, in particolare i temi del giardino e delle 
ninfe in una rapida veduta comparativa fra i cinque pil grandi poeti epici europei: 
Ariosto, Tasso, Spenser, Camoés e Milton. 

Logoterapia e poesia scientifica in Gerolamo Fracastoro sono gli argomenti 
principali dell’articolo di Luigi Monga (“Poesia e terapia nell’opera di Gerolamo 
Fracastoro”’) la cui attenzione si volge soprattutto a tre opere fondamentali, Syphilis, 
De contagione e Naugerius, per sottolinearne la complementarieta. Ma é dal Naugerius 
che deriva la sua interpretazione del concetto fracastoriano di logoterapia: “la poesia 
medica rappresenta percid il pid alto livello di scrittura terapeutica .. . a cui ogni 
medico possa aspirare: il testo poetico, grazie all’afflato divino che lo informa, 
assurge cosi quasi a funzione di parola rivelata, i cui effetti terapeutici sono 
naturalmente superiori a quelli di qualsiasi trattato di medicina” (176). 

Nel panorama letterario e culturale abbastanza desolato della Genova del 
Rinascimento assume un notevole rilievo la figura isolata di Paolo Foglietta, poeta 
dialettale che, secondo Paolo Giordano (“The Civic and Political Verse of Paolo 
Foglietta and 16th-century Genoa”), coglie i difetti politici e sociali della sua gente 
con occhio disincantato, e che, pur restando fedele alla sua terra, riconosce la 
superiorita di Venezia, col suo governo efficiente e con il suo temibile apparato 
militare. 

Nell’intervento successivo, Ilona Klein (“Tommaso Campanella’s La citta del 


Italian Bookshelf 441 


Sole: Topography and Astrology”) ci presenta l’utopistica Citta di Campanella nella 
sua struttura fisica e in relazione ai costanti riferimenti numerologici e astrologici, 
come paradigma e simbolo di quell’armonia sociale ideale che il Rinascimento non 
aveva saputo realizzare. 

Le caratteristiche della pastorale sacra, anche in rapporto alla spagnola comedia 
de santos, soprattutto nella tradizione napoletana e siciliana, sono l’argomento 
dell’analisi di Salvatore Bancheri “The Italian ‘Pastorale Sacra’ Reconsidered”), il 
quale ci offre anche una breve panoramica di una pastorale siciliana di Filippo 
Orioles, La notte in giorno nella nascita di Gesk Cristo (1745), che presenta fra 
l’altro un curioso pastiche linguistico, con un italiano misto di latinismi e un dialetto 
siciliano introdotto non per spirito realistico ma per suscitare il riso (213). 

Delle polemiche condotte dall’ Accademia dei Granelleschi contro Carlo Goldoni 
su varie questioni di stile, di lingua e di gusto, con riferimenti a una polemica 
parallela fra lo stesso Goldoni e Carlo Gozzi intorno alla funzione e alla missione del 
teatro, ci parla Mauda Bregoli Russo (“L’ Accademia dei Granelleschi e la polemica 
teatrale a Venezia”): “Divergenti furono i loro sforzi riformatori: Goldoni devid verso 
il realismo e il verosimile, mentre il Gozzi vide nella Commedia dell’Arte del 
Seicento, con le sue stravaganze, le fantasie creative, la novita, uno ‘spettacolo 
popolare formidabile (““Ragionamento ingenuo”, 56). Se per Goldoni si pud parlare di 
‘riforma’, per Gozzi é pit indicato il termine ‘controriforma’” (228). 

Nei circoli intellettuali veneziani dell’epoca goldoniana l’atmosfera non era 
favorevole al romanzo, ci ricorda Franco Manai (“Goldoni e il romanzo”), e Goldoni 
non si discostava, almeno ufficialmente, dal sentire generale. Ma esisteva in lui una 
certa ambiguita: anzitutto fu vorace lettore di romanzi e alcuni ne adattd per il teatro, e 
in secondo luogo proprio nei Mémoires “si ha il riconoscimento concreto e insieme 
indiretto del valore artistico del romanzo”. Le professioni di veridicita contenute in 
diverse parti dell’opera “‘sono dello stesso tipo di quelle fatte dai romanzieri” (235). 
Infatti l’opera si proponeva di costruire “il mito della missione teatrale del genio 
comico dell’autore e il mito dell’immagine di un uomo tranquillo e dal sangue freddo” 
(236). 

Emmanuel Hatzantonis fa rilevare nella sua relazione (“L’evoluzione 
dell’umorismo nei romanzi verghiani”) che la vena umoristica, presente in tutte le 
opere di Verga, si va intensificando nelle ultime opere. E la derisione che accompagna 
le figure di ’Ntoni e di don Franco nei Malavoglia “non derivava dalla sua condizione 
di borghese benestante . . . di osteggiatore del socialismo nazionale o internazionale, 
bensi dalla sua irremovibile e pessimistica certezza che tutti operano per il proprio 
interesse” (254). 

Le traduzioni di Vittorini dalla letteratura americana sono spesso ricreazioni 
dell’originale piuttosto che copie fedeli. Cosi sostiene Giovanna Bellesia (“Elio 
Vittorini’s Translations from American literature”), la quale afferma offrendo copia di 
esempi che “he never imitated the Americans passively, but rather filtered their 
lessons and adapted them to his needs as a writer” (265). 

A proposito di Sibilla Aleramo, Fabio Girelli Carasi (“Disease as Metaphor in 
Sibilla Aleramo’s Una donna”) sostiene che il fulcro creativo della scrittrice va 
ricercato in una certa propensione-attrazione per la malattia, una specie di maschera 
simbolica che permetteva di attuare un’operazione espressiva entro i limiti della 
morale e dei valori predominanti: “It is my opinion that Aleramo unknowingly 


442 Italian Bookshelf 


portrayed a psychological condition known as conversion syndrome, or classic 
hysteria, clinically identified as the result of the splitting of consciousness (Janet) 
or, alternatively, of repression (Freud)” (279). 

Secondo Laura Baffoni Licata (“Dinamismo esistenziale nella poesia di Vittorio 
Sereni”), pur nell’indubitabile evoluzione del suo stile, Vittorio Sereni presenta delle 
costanti che ricorrono in ogni opera e che sembrano riassumersi nell’ultima raccolta 
Stella variabile, dove mentre “da una parte si attua . . . [l’] accettazione cosciente della 
propria incapacita a coinvolgersi — accettazione in un certo senso di.. . ‘vergogna’ 
— dall’altra continua, ad un livello pit privato, il costante e perplesso interrogarsi 
sul valore della poesia, sulla plausibilita della storia da scrivere o da non scrivere, 
sulla funzione in genere del poeta” (295). 

Louis Kibler (“Gentle Anarchy: Ezio d’Errico’s Theater of the Absurd”) ci 
introduce a uno scrittore di teatro non molto conosciuto negli Stati Uniti e che merita 
senz’altro di essere avvicinato. In lui si trovano riflesse molte delle ansie e delle 
problematiche che hanno investito e che tuttora investono il nostro secolo, e la sua 
opera se ne rende intreprete: “Just as d’Errico’s theater of the absurd mirrors the 
violent, inhumane, irrational, and desperate character of the twentieth century, so 
does his vision of an anarchistic utopia reflect the secret dream that thousands of his 
contemporaries have carried within themselves, the ideal of a world governed by its 
inhabitants, of a utopia constructed on a pacifistic anarchy, a gentle anarchy made to 
the measure of man and not to the measure of an institution or an ideology” (307). 

L’intervento di Iole Magri é un’analisi del romanzo di Maria Luisa Fargion, 
Lungo le acque tranquille. Nell’infuriare della persecuzione razzista contro gli ebrei, 
l’autrice descrive le sue memorie che ci riportano all’ambiente della campagna senese, 
dove gli orrori della guerra e dell’odio non prevalgono sulla tenace umanita della 
semplice gente locale. 

Chiude la raccolta l’esame di un altro romanzo condotto da Giacomo Stnuli: si 
tratta di J cristalli di Vienna di Giuliana Morandini. Per far comprendere le tecniche 
narrative del romanzo e per dare un’idea dell’atmosfera che circola nel libro, Striuli 
cita l’autrice: “I cristalli di Vienna riflettono emozioni trascorse, un’epoca perduta. 
Quando si fanno opachi dissolvono |l’infanzia, il mito del Friuli e della cultura 
contadina. . . . Luci e suoni dei cristalli, e l’ingombro delle cose familiari mi 
sollecitavano e mi opprimevano nella prima misura del racconto. Misurarmi con la 
resistenza della parola e della scrittura significava anche capire come le donne 
dovessero riconquistare creativita ed espressivita dopo troppo silenzio” (321-22). Un 
appello dunque di sapore aleramico che postula una chiave espressiva femminile 
distinta da quella tradizionale, e che é ancora in fase di dinamica sperimentazione. 

Clavio Ascari 
Mary Washington College 


Dante: The Banquet. Translated with an introduction and notes by 
Christopher Ryan. Stanford French and Italian Studies. Saratoga: 
Anma Libri, 1989. Pp. 253. 


The recent publication of the first English translations of the Convivio since the tum 


Italian Bookshelf 443 


of the century marks an important moment in the continued life of the work within 
the tradition of Anglo-American Dante studies. This translation by Christopher 
Ryan, an English scholar of medieval philosophy, theology and Italian literature 
(and student of Kenelm Foster O.P., to whose memory the work is dedicated), 
continued what was until only very recently a British monopoly in translations of the 
Convivio: E. Sayer, London, 1887; K. Hillard, London, 1889; P. H. Wicksteed, 
Oxford, 1903; and W. W. Jackson, Oxford, 1909. Since Ryan’s, another translation 
by the American Richard Lansing has appeared (New York and London: Garland, 
1990). The need for a new translation of the Convivio has certainly been felt on both 
sides of the Atlantic for some time, in light of the advances made on the philological 
front, and especially since Maria Simonelli’s critical edition (Bologna, 1966). 
Moreover, the recent translations reflect trends in Anglo-American research towards 
the reconsideration of the Dante’s “minor works.” The Convivio has for some time 
been the focus for what Robert Hollander has termed a typically American line of 
investigation, that is, Dante’s “palinodic treatment” of his own early works in the 
Commedia (foreword to Lectura Dantis Americana, vol. 1, 1989). Now critics like 
Albert Ascoli have begun to look at the relationship between Commedia and 
Convivio from the Convivio forward, tracing “elements of continuity and logical 
progression” (“The Vowels of Authority” in Discourses of Authority in Medieval and 
Renaissance Literature, ed. Kevin Brownlee and Walter Stephens,1989). In any case, 
the new translations of the Convivio complement recent philological and critical 
acquisitions and approaches. Unfortunately the Ryan translation was unable to 
benefit from the recent Convivio edited by Cesare Vasoli and Domenico De Robertis 
(Milano: Ricciardi, 1988). 

Christopher Ryan’s translation is offered as “a basic tool, and ideally, as a help 
towards the consultation of the Italian” (8), and it is in fact well suited for classroom 
use. The volume includes besides the translation (presented independently of the 
apparatus to enhance the direct experience of the text), a section documenting the 
preferred readings adopted by the editor-translator (203-6), annotations to the text 
(207-38) and a useful subject and proper names index (239-53). The nearly three- 
hundred and fifty notes are designed for advanced undergraduate and beginning 
graduate students of Romance languages, medieval history and culture. Culled for the 
most part from the Busnelli-Vandelli commentary, they include annotation of 
internal references within the treatise, clarifications of Dante’s argument, background 
on fundamental points of medieval philosophy, historical details and precise 
references for quotes. 

Despite the stated heuristic intention of the volume, the translation is not of the 
literalist or interlinear school, and is clearly intended to stand independently. There 
is no attempt to occupy a middle ground between the two languages as a kind of 
interlingua; the translation’s diction is characterized by a systematic eschewal of 
cognates. Dante’s difficult and sometimes enigmatic scholastic prose and vocabulary 
are forcefully transposed into a contemporary idiom; the translation often opts for 
“clarity when caution might have counselled recourse to decent obscurity” (7). The 
most: striking feat from the stylistic point of view is the breakdown of the articulated 
structure of the lengthy Italian periods into contemporary English sentences. The 
translator rarely loses sight of the underlying symmetries of structure. Thanks also to 
a general shift away from passive to active voice throughout, The Banquet has an 


444 Italian Bookshelf 


immediacy and vividness which represents perhaps the principal virtue of the 
translation. Aided by the unencumbered textual presentation, the translation 
recaptures a contemporary spirit and intensity which will be a revelation to readers 
who have until now approached the text through the literalism of the Temple Classics 
translation (Wicksteed), and even to some readers of the Italian text whose experience 
of the Convivio has been perhaps distracted by the dense Busnelli-Vandelli 
commentary. However, the translator’s quest for clarity and contemporary readability 
leads him to undertake what some will consider an unorthodox handling of the 
Simonelli edition, that is, the making of foomotes out of “Dante’s own text” (8). 
According to the introduction this procedure is introduced so as not to obscure for 
“today’s reader” “the flow of Dante’s thought” (8). The text established by Simonelli 
is interrupted by more than one hundred such notes taken from the body of it and 
presented as footnotes. For example, at IV, viii, 2 (140) the translator introduces an 
obtrusive footnote at the bottom of the page of a citation originally embedded 
unobtrusively in the text. The procedure is not limited to brief citations, but entire 
periods are lifted in the same way from their original context. At the politically 
sensitive IV, viii, 10 (141), Dante evokes his adversaries and justifies his digression 
in defense of himself against the charge of disrespect for imperial authority. The 
metarhetorical pause (which is relegated to a note by the translator), like many 
parallel moments throughout the Convivio, seems to be a constituent element of “the 
flow of Dante’s discourse” rather than an interruption. 

The translation is throughout painstakingly correct. Nevertheless, the search for 
clarity and readability occasionally leads to losses which might have been avoided by 
a greater literalness. For example, something of the precision of Dante’s rhetorical 
terminology is lost at I, x, 13 (32) where la rima e lo numero regolato is rendered by 
the idiomatically pat “rhyme and rhythm.” The expression has a more technical 
meaning here, closer to Wicksteed’s literalist “regulated number,” but might not 
simply “meter” represent a better solution? In the same passage le proprietadi de le 
sue co[stru]zioni is given here as “the precision of its sentences.” The anachronistic 
“sentences” obscures the fact that from a technical point of view, Dante refers to a 
smaller morpho-syntactic unit than what is understood in English by “sentence,” 
rather something closer to “expression,” or “locution.” Within the dynamic of the 
passage as Busnelli-Vandelli noted, costruzioni “locutions” functions as an 
intermediary term between the most basic unit sillaba and le soavi orazioni che di lui 
si fanno for which Wicksteed has simply “the sweet discourses that are made of it.” 
Here Ryan has “the pleasant forms of discourse fashioned from it,” which suggests an 
interest in types of discourse, that is, a genre problematic, not present in the 
original. 

The preferred readings apparatus merits some comment since the translation is 
not passive in its treatment of the text established in Maria Simonelli’s critical 
edition. It rather represents a contribution (unfortunately however, an oblique one) to 
the ongoing philological discussions regarding the text. The editor-translator takes 
into consideration besides the 1921 critical edition of the Societa Dantesca Italiana 
and the Busnelli-Vandelli edition (1964-68), the contributions of F. Brambilla Agena 
(1967), A. Pézard (1967), G. Martellotti (1967), and finally Simonelli’s Materiali per 
un' edizione critica (1970). The review of textual authorities seems to have ended with 
Simonelli’s contribution of 1970, for absent from the apparatus are recoveries from 


Italian Bookshelf 445 


beneath “le incrostazioni correzionali” proposed by Fredi Chiappelli which might 
well have had an effect on the translation at II, ii,5; DI, u,8; e I, ix,5 (“Osservazioni 
sul testo del Convivio: di con funzione strumentale,” first published in Studi e 
problemi di critica testuale 5 (1972): 5-14, now in I legame musaico [1984]: 75-87). 
In any case, since the translation represents an edition in its own right on the 
philological front, some commentary and justification for the preferred readings 
might have been in order. The editor-translator lists approximately seventy 
occasions where the translation departs from the Simonelli edition: he favors the 
1921 text in over half of these (44), while adopting F. Brambilla Agena 11 times, 
Simonelli bis (1970) 8, Busnelli-Vandelli 6, and once adopts a reading proposed by 
Pézard. A noteworthy departure from the critical edition involves the discussion of 
the nature of Dante’s allegory at II, xii, 8. The editor-translator’s reading restores (as 
does Vasoli-De Robertis after Agena) the traditional integration of a non before 
fittizie (che avessero si leggiere le [non] fittizie parole apprese), which Simonelli had 
removed from the critical edition since, in her view, it reflected a faulty interpretation 
of Dante’s conception of allegory. While the editor-translator never strays from the 
paths set out by the philological authorities, some preferred readings might seem 
idiosyncratic: for example IV, ix, 11 where for “frumento” the translator reads 
“fer[ra]mento” after a suggestion of Pézard roundly rejected by Simonelli in 1970. 
Discussion of preferred readings is not possible here, but readers will want to know 
that The Banquet, with regard to philological foundations, ought to be handled with 
care. The translation should not be allowed to cover the fact that, as Simonelli wrote 
in 1970, “the problem of a critical edition of the Convivio is still an open one.” 
Methodological reservations aside however, The Banquet is recommended for its 
general heuristic value and the noteworthy virtues of the translation in the areas of 
clarity and readabilty. 
Theodore J. Cachey Jr. 
The University of Notre Dame 


Paul Colilli. Petrarch's Allegories of Writing. Napoli: Nicola de 
Dominicis Editore, 1988. Pp. 184. 


In Colilli's book we find an interesting approach to three major Petrarchan works: 
Canzoniere, Trionfi, and Africa. It is an attempt to find a line of development on the 
basis of a loss of and return to the fullness of meaning and prelapsarian unity with 
God and meaning. The author articulates is attempt in four chapters titled: 
“Allegorical Scripture,” “Anomalia,” “Analogia” and “Alethiologia.” 

Chapter 1 lays the foundation for the study of “the interplay in the Petrarchan 
text” (11) between analogy and anomaly; a “plethora of wawering meanings” and a 
“stabilized univocal matrix of signification”; a systematic assimilation of differences 
(9) and a deconstructionist view that signs are in a state of constant flux and therefore 
totally indeterminate and totally unintelligible. 

The author postulates that an allegorical mode was devised in order to tame the 
unlimited semeiosis of the Scripture. Consequently the traditional dichotomy of a 
Petrarch oscillating between Laura and God is replaced by a conflict between analogy 


446 Italian Bookshelf 


and anomaly. Anomaly will be found in the Canzoniere, analogy in the Trionfi and 
alethiology in the Africa. 

While we are not surprised to perceive that Colilli subscribes to the intertextual 
centrality of language and to Heideggers's thesis that “language is the house of being 

. . in the dwelling given by language” (Brief tiber den Humanismus 75 ), we are 
indeed puzzled by the absence in this section of his book of fundamental references 
on the subject of allegory and biblical exegesis, e.g. Lubac’s Exégése médiévale, 
Smalley’s The Study of the Bible, Hollander’s Allegory in Dante's Commedia, and 
Charity’s Events and Their Afterlife. These works would have brought added 
perspectives to the problem of allegory and biblical exegesis in Petrarch’s time and 
limited Colilli’s dependence on Durling, Cavazza and Eco. 

In the second chapter Petrarch’s letter on the ascent of Mount Ventoux is 
interpreted as showing a strategy of “transgression vis-a-vis literary history” 
(24)with the conclusion that on the summit Petrarch experiences nihilistic absence 
and uncomfortable disunity instead.of beatific unity. This leads Petrarch to a demonic 
world of indeterminacy which in tum will account for the labyrinthine nature of the 
Canzoniere, and its anomalous antithetical aesthetics. 

The model chosen by Colilli for anomalous aesthetics is Jesus Christ, who 
short-circuited the relationship between signifier and referent in the Jewish tradition. 
Stressing this negative aspect, the author asserts that “His Incarnation disintegrates 
the Jewish reading of the Bible” (27). Other scholars, instead, hold that He claimed to 
have come not to destroy but to fulfill, and that He gave a highly original and 
profoundly moral development, the most authentically Jewish scriptural elements. 
Miller and Schwartzman, for instance, state that “by and large the form and the 
substance of Jesus’ message were completely within the spirit of biblical writers, 
prophets and rabbis” (Our Religion 57). It seems that Colilli’s thesis that neither the 
Haggadah nor the Halaka were perpetuated needs revision. 

At this point the author shows his intertextualist approach to the Canzoniere by 
placing it within a total literary context. Thus the old shepherd in the Mont Ventoux 
letter becomes the synthesis of the three shepherds from Parthenias’ eclogue, the 
latter in turn represent Virgil, Homer and David and “incarnate the roots of literary 
tradition” (32). So when Petrarch does not listen to the old shepherd and when he 
discards is clothing, he is refusing to follow his literary precursors. We must note, 
however, that Petrarch and his brother do take the path pointed out by the old 
shepherd. Since it is the old path could we say that they follow tradition? On the other 
hand the discarding of the clothes may simply reflect their detachment from the 
things of this world in preparation for the ascension (just as Daumal’s members of the 
Impossible do, before they climb Mount Analogue). Petrarch’s silence is a sign of 
meditation on Augustine’s saying that mortals forget the best part of themselves; for 
Colilli, instead, it is “the result of Petrarch’s destruction of history” (39 ). This 
infraction leads first to Nietzsche, then to Moses and Exodus and finally to 
“Petrarch’s desert (which is metaphorically displaced in the perimeters of the 
Canzoniere (40). Evidently the focus of attention in this part of the book is analogy 
and the metaphor, and Colilli finds them everywhere. 

Given the modus operandi we are not surprised in reading that Laura’s eyes lead to 
a mirror, an image of the fall, a labyrinth and finally to Petrarch’s desire to “clear 
space for an artistic self” (54 ). Similarly the often debated play on words “Laura”- 








Italian Bookshelf 447 


“Jauro” leads to “alloro” (discussed as speculum mundi), to the narcissistic value of 
the laurel tree and to Petrarch “transformed . . . into a laurel tree and subsequently into 
other forms” (57). The aim of this transferrence method is to show the “idolatrous 
nature of poetry” (57) in the Canzoniere, and the fall of the poet into a 
“morphological perversion,” a “collapse in semiological anarchy” (57). 

This eagerness to show the path of Petrarch’s hermeneutical suicide often leads 
the author to attribute new meanings to the poet’s words, e.g. in sonnet 38 Laura 
literally holds her veils and impedes Petrarch's sight of her, but the veils become 
“demonic powers”; in song 28 Petrarch speaks of the yoke of the infidels and calls for 
a crusade, but the yoke is instead attributed to the veil and “is the weight of 
indeterminacy, the rupture between form and meaning” (48). We are not surprised, 
then, when at the end of the chapter the reference to the miracle of the multiplication 
of the fishes and the loaves in the gospel of St. John and to Jesus’ words, “Gather up 
the crusts that are left over so that nothing wiil go to waste” is interpreted collecting 
“dispersed revelatory fragments” into another work and “implies the need of moral 
conversion” (64) 

The gathering of the fragments is carried out in the Trionfi. The third chapter 
focuses on this work to demonstrate “the restoration of both Petrarch’s soul and the 
virginity of signification” (80 ). The Trionfi are read as “typologically successive 
texts” (77), but there is no discussion of the patristic exegetical tradition which 
labeled allegorizing as a “detraction from the eschatological character of history 
upon which God has acted, and a dissociation of the acts of God from the demanded 
actions of men” (Charity 163). Colilli, instead, identifies the focus of Petrarch’s 
allegories “in a search for virginity of signification, the reformatio of disfigured 
language and the recovery of the pre-lapsarian self” (77). The journey to this recovery 
begins with introspection and continues until what is alien to the Logos is cast off. 
At this point we are told that the Jrionfi are envisioned during the night because 
night is the best time “to come ace to face with God.” In contrast with this thesis, St. 
Bernard identifies the dark night with a sense of abandonment by Him after a mystical 
union. This feeling of abandonment is shared by St. Angela of Foligno as “a horrible 
darkness that makes every hope vanish” (Conquista del regno di Dio 46). We would 
consider more probable that Petrarch relied on the Augustinian medieval tradition of 
the ordinary visio vespertina, which may convert into visio matutina through 
enlightened faith and in visio meridiana in heaven. The way to self-knowledge and to 
God goes from evening to high noon. Colilli, instead, traces the odyssey to self- 
knowledge through the six ages of man, and relies on St. Augustine to establish the 
following parallels between he ages of man and the Trionfi. 1. age: Augustine — 
infancy, Triumphus Cupidinis (located in the regio dissimilitudinis), 2. Age: 
Augustine — generating, Triumphus pudicitiae (whose central theme of virginity 
leads from dissimilitudo to reformatio); 3. Age: Augustine — adolescence, Triumphus 
Mortis (the distinguishing of the self from the demonic alter); 4. Age: Augustine — 
youth, Tiumphus Fame (through a metaphoric displacement of Glory and the Sun ); 5. 
Age: Augustine — presbites, Triumphus Temporis (in which the poet perceives he 
decaying material reality); 6. Age: Augustine — birth of the new man, Triumphus 
eternitatis (in which "the attacking of the carnal rule finds its counterpart in the 
elimination of the literal sense through the assimilation of the syllables of time 
which in turn give light to a purely spiritual hermeneutics” 85). There is no mention 


448 Italian Bookshelf 


of the seventh age for which St. Augustine quotes, “When the Son of Man cometh” 
(Lk 18, viii), nor is there an evaluation of the Augustinian statement that the fourth 
age is best. The reader is left to wonder if the seventh age would have been included 
had Petrarch written seven Trionft.... 

Later within this chapter the text of the Trionfi is read in semeiological key. The 
first Trionfo yields a lack of anagogic referent and of caritas; the second a parallel to 
baptism; the third a metaphorical extension of Petrarch’s fragmented soul (Laura has 
Christological metaphoricity and points “to the undoing of the old world and the 
creation of the novo mondo” 100); the fourth and fifth show decay and destruction and 
the sixth gives an apocalyptic vision. 

In this chapter, as in preceding ones, it is often difficult to follow he author’s 
line of reasoning on account of his unpredictable use of analogy and his shifting 
freely from topic to topic. For instance, from the metaphorics of baptism we go to 
the theme of descent (incidentally there is no descent in the Triumphus Cupiditatis), 
then to a contrast between Scipio and Hannibal, David and Goliath, to the theme of 
the white gown hence to virginity and on to examples of pudicitia,to Spurina’s scars, 
to apocalyptic vision and finally to the shedding of time and plurivocality. Similarly 
on pages 98-99 Spurina’s scars are first interpreted as stigmata, then as an allusion to 
Christ’s circumcision; this brings to Colilli’s mind “the relationship between 
circumcision and utterance” (99) and finally to St. Augustine’s Confessions, Book 
11. Unfortunately the stigmata are wounds that parallel those of Jesus during His 
passion, and not the scars due to Spurina self-mutilation of his seductive face. As for 
the Confessions, Augustine’s passage reads, “But my pen’s tongue will never have 
the strength to declare all your exhortations and your terrors, the consolation and the 
guidance by which you brought me to become a preacher of your word to your people” 
(Bk 11.2 ), and we find ourselves at loss in detecting in the passage a fear of “falling © 
prey to carnal delight” (99). 

The fourth chapter proposes to reconsider Africa as more than the renewal of epic 
poetry and to show that Petrarch “wants to imprint his position in he history of 
Being” (116). Colilli’s thesis, resting on theories from Derrida, Heidegger and 
Barthes, is that to unconceal being Petrarch must step back into the littera; that there 
may be possible connections between writing (which disrupts the tranquillity of 
eternal anagogy) and the unconcealing of Esse; and that Petrarch’s polemics against 
scholasticism, the dialecticians and the Averroists are due to the fact that these 
movements analyze “the possibility of Esse to unconceal and conceal itself” (131). 
The Africa, therefore, is about “its own . . . creation” (139) and the “all encompassing 
revelation . . . of Esse/God Who by disclosing the text of the Africa is the true auctor 
of the poem” (140). Within the epic “‘the God of ‘action’ is embodied in Scipio” who 
becomes the saint-hero of the Age of the Spirit which, according to Colilli, is already 
arrived for Petrarch. 

In this chapter again there is such a free use of analogy that the reader is given 
the impression that no factual justification is needed to present Colilli’s synthetic 
vision. There are also puzzling omissions of essential references, e.g. in treating the 
Orpheus theme no mention is made of Friedman’s Orpheus in the Middle Ages. 
Friedman’s work would have brought a different view on the position of Clement of 
Alexandria in regard to the Orpheus-Christ analogy. For Friedman, in fact, 
“Clement’s elaborate comparison of Orpheus and Christ, designed to show the 


Italian Bookshelf 449 


complete opposition between them, might for a careless reader, or one not too 
familiar with Christian doctrine or Clement’s highly metaphorical style, serve to 
identify the two rather than separate them” (56). We are also puzzled by the statement 
that Orpheus “‘descended into hell to destroy the forces of evil” and that he “through 
the charm of is words [not his music] was able to reanimate ontologically void 
objects by singing a soul into them” (144). 

In his afterword the author states that he has challenged the two main trends of 
Petrarch’s criticism which make him either a Christian humanist or the father of a 
pagan Renaissance. He has instead “uncovered poetic strategies that either reconcile 
meaning within spiritual perimeters, create an infernal semeiotic void, or open 
history through disruption.” He also has identified a movement that goes from the 
insufficiency of the self to fill the vacuum of the past (letter of Mount Ventoux) 
through the maelstrom of determinacy in the Canzoniere, and the correlation of 
dispersed signs within the Trionfi, to the revelation of the “forgotten fluidity of 
Esse” (164) in the Africa. In true Darridean fashion, he has tried to unbuild Petrarch’s 
text to reveal not only its underlying metaphorical base, but also its theological 
development. In the process Colilli has attempted to show that Petrarch 
follows/anticipates Heidegger’s notion that the surpassing of linear or of 
metaphysical time is not simply going out of time but is the historical ontological 
(seinsgeschichtlich) self-giving (sich geben) of a new opening to Being. He has also 
shown to subscribe to the intertextual perspective so fashionable today. 
Unfortunately the overstress on intertextuality and on he centrality of language has 
not yielded grounds for better understanding of Petrarch. It has often submerged 
Petrarch’s works in a slough of signs. 

The book is marred by a high number of typographical errors, some of which are 
puzzling, e.g. on page 19, footnote 10 one reads “the aesthetics of from in Aquinas” 
and finds oneself wishing for punctuation marks. 

Davy A. Carozza 
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee 


Constance Jordan. Pulci's Morgante: Poetry and History in 
Fifteenth-Century Florence. Washington: The Folger Shakespeare 
Library and Associated UP, 1986. Pp. 216. 


In this study, Constance Jordan and the Folger Shakespeare Library introduce Luigi 
Pulci to the English and American public as a posthumanist historiographer in the 
tradition of Villani and Goro Dati. The Morgante, we are told, is an “increasingly 
anomalous poem” composed by a man who “showed his subject to be increasingly 
complex, illuminated by the shifting light of the passage of time, both as a concept 
(temporality) and a reality (the actual time spent reading and writing). He also altered 
his conception of himself” (159). Jordan endeavors to validate these claims by 
reading the epic comparatively from the points of historical method, biographical 
detail, theological speculation, textual reception, narrative technique, and classical 
and renaissance mythography. This is not a book for philologists. 

The key “historical” issue is the popularity of Charlemagne’s myth in fifteenth- 


450 Italian Bookshelf 


century Florence, especially at the Medici court. Pulci began his epic at the behest of 
Lucrezia, but was later barred from the palace by Lorenzo. Jordan believes one may 
trace Pulci’s changing relationship to the Medici “in various ways throughout his 
poem” (10). In the introductory chapter, she attempts to contextualize her reading 
through history and biography. Pulci himself is drawn with little sympathy. Of his 
letters, Jordan notes, “their high passion, uncontrolled by a rational reflection, 
reveals a person who saw life in terms of stark contracts, who found compromise 
uncongenial, who chafed at delay. They contain the seeds of his eventual loss of 
favor” (29). In the light of such platitudes, Jordan asks, “Why Pulci’s feud with 
Ficino?” “What of Pulci’s practice of magic?” “Why write a Confessione so late in 
life? Many questions are asked; few, satisfactorily answered. 

Chapter one spreads forth Jordan’s theoretical apparatus. The original impetus is 
structural; the conclusions, invariably deconstructionist. (One can easily read the 
hyphen in the structuralist-poststructuralist controversy.) For Pulci the festering 
wound is Dante and his elevation of Charlemagne to Paradise. Thus historically the 
emperor becomes problematic. He makes the Morgante “self-reflexive” and forces 
Pulci to explore “the nature of the process by which history is written and historical 
judgments, whether or not incorporated in epideictic poetry, can be made” (45). Then 
too the problem might be that of textual reception. Cantos 1 through 23 (Part 1) are 
modelled, with some added narrative exception, on the Orlando; cantos 24-28 (Part 
2), again with a couple of narrative editions, on the Spagna in rima, the Spagna in 
prosa, and, we learn later, Donato Acciaiuoli’s Vita Caroli Magna. Jordan believes 
that only by analyzing the repetitive narrative of Part 1 and the linear narrative of 
Part 2 will we arrive at a proper understanding of the Morgante as a whole. 

Part 1 “perspectivizes” the history of Charlemagne and “establishes the fact of 
its [the Morgante’s] own historical contingency. It reveals that what is known of the 
past, as history, is discovered . . . as the product of a continuous process of re-vision” 
(48). (Jordan reads cantos 1-23 in a welter of “patterns,” “opposition deficiencies,” 
“gyre-like configurations,” of which she herself admits, “No reader . . . can fail to 
notice how much that is important to its [the first part’s] action I have left out” (56). 
Part 2 (cantos 24-28) is reduced to a “single story line,” “not patterned,” and a 
“chronological order of events.” Deconstructively “chivalric fidelity” in contrast to 
Gano’s treason “reveals more clearly the Emperor’s own weakness” (59). In the last 
canto the narrative becomes “repetitious and finally metaleptic” (60). Pulci’s 
examination of chivalric values inevitably lead to a consideration of “the nature of 
temporality and the principles that provide the basis for the writing of history” (63). 

So far, to my count, Jordan has cited only seven verses of the Morgante. 

Chapter two, “Models of Chivalry” begins with the author’s variously repeated 
shibboleth, “The Morgante expresses a theory of history from the very beginning” 
(64). Jordan now posits “the matter of Britain,” that is the Mort Artu, which, we are 
later told, “Pulci may not have known” (97). But no matter, for thence arise the 
themes of the king at the center of a court and erotic love, whence the Morgante 
becomes a “fusion of the narrative forms of history and romance, or chronicle and 
story . . . matched by a corresponding mingling of conceptions of the social order” 
(67). Jordan now may speak of the humanly ironic temporal return of spring, the 
temporality of “familial relations” (70), and the Christian, Augustinian meaning of 
history. “None of these models is in any sense prescriptive or even dominant in the 


Italian Bookshelf 451 


narrative as a whole” (71). The last provides a tenuous link to a dominant force 
behind Jordan’s analysis: the Boethian theory of history. This free-floating signifier 
then attaches the epic hero to “aspects of the poet’s own character and role” (77), the 
poet to Renaissance humanism (78), and “the idea of history at its most fundamental 
level” (81). Pulci’s epic becomes “a humanist critique of the idea of a God-willed 
universal empire and a refutation of that critique” (93). One proposition after another 
undergoes a deconstructionist slippage. 

Chapter three, in its review of the remainder of Part 1, adduces “mythical plots” 
as meditations on time — plots of which particular parallels to the text of the 
Morgante “need not be pressed too closely” (96). Pulci’s Meridiana, “‘a sundial,” 
becomes “a figure in whom temporality or the passage of time is understood in spatial 
terms” (95). Interesting mythographical readings of Virgil, Statius, Ovid, and 
Boccaccio find their place in Jordan’s narrative along with the major myths of 
Hippolytus, Ceres and Perserpina, Castor and Pollux, and Narcissus. Rinaldo becomes 
a Hercules, an allegory of rationality and love of fame (103); Luciana, a Circe (105). 
The “Adventure of Chiariella” “imitates a conflated version of two myths of return” 
(103). Gano’s rescue or rehabilitation represents “an ironic use” of just that sort of 
myth (116, author’s italics). In the episodes of Calavrion’s defeat, Pulci develops a 
“contrasting position on the roles of belief and persuasion in moral action” (119). 
Hence the Morgante anticipates the shift from epideictic to analytical 
historiography. The epic represents a “process in which the subject is observed at 
progressively more critical levels” (214). 

Chapter four examines Part 2. Jordan acknowledges the change in Pulci’s sources 
and his claim to be Charlemagne’s “best historian” (125). 

At last he is aware of the historiographic dimension of his poem; he cannot 
escape “the full pathos inherent in the Boethian paradox” (127). Part 1 entertains “a 
moral allegory based on the interpretation of mythical analogues"; Part 2 “adopts an 
imagery based on Biblical typology” (128). The narrative voice of the poet 
dominates at last. “The thematic complexity, the display of conflicting attitudes, and 
the frequent allusions to ideas and theories of philosophy and theology are finally 
seen to be circumscribed by Pulci’s imagination” (128). Eschewing an obvious 
Italian source in Dante’s celestial poetics, Jordan prefers to base Pulci’s poetic 
authority on Homer’s oral variety and proceeds to assume mistakenly that the kleos, 
“glory” or “unverified news,” of Iliad 2.486 is necessarily a “negative rumor,” in 
effect translating the word in the sense of Virgilian fama in Aeneid 4.173-197. 
Pulci’s introduction of the magician Malagigi reveals that the epic poet’s view of 
language has shifted from a “repository of signs whose meanings are made stable by 
reference to a transcendent (metaphysical) reality” to “signs whose meanings are 
acquired by references to actual (historical) situations” (133). Here Jordan broaches 
“the affective potential of the work of art” (134). This is a problem of ecphrasis. The 
word is never mentioned. 

As chapter four proceeds to its end, the reader is confronted with those nips and 
tucks Jordan reads to bring her own narrative to a close: Rinaldo’s return to 
Roncisvalle must deny his passage through the Pillars of Hercules in order to 
challenge the authority of Dante’s placement of Charlemagne in Paradise (145). 
Astarotte’s extension of Luciana’s tent is intimately tied to Pulci’s revision of 
Dante’s tale of Ulysses; Astarotte’s description of the Antipodes is linked to a 


452 Italian Bookshelf 


“vision of history,” and also to Paolo Toscanelli, a Renaissance cartographer (153). 
Thus can Pulci, the historian, “ridicule the works and authorities on which he draws” 
(156). “He both insists on and at the same time disclaims any interest in truth” (158). 
Hence, “the contradictions in this increasingly anomalous poem deepen in the last 
canto” (159). “The reader must be his own authority” (160). At verse 40 of canto 28, 
Pulci makes his “last anguished statement against the intervention of Ficino and his 
colleagues in his affairs” (161). So does the poet provide an ironic series of 
“historical sources” to resolve his impasse, his inability “to write history as if to 
reveal the truth of the past, single and irrefutable”; rather he writes “in the full 
awareness of his own historicity” (163). Pulci can find closure to his epic poem only 
in an unacceptable shift to pastoral and its clumsy identification with Lorenzo’s 
court. 

An afterward attempts to reduce Boiardo’s Orlando innamorato and Ariosto’s 
Orlando furioso to a by now clearly unproven thesis that, like Pulci, these poets 
assumed “the role of the poet as a historian” (172). 

What is convincing in Jordan’s book is not new; what is new is not convincing. 
A serious study could be written in English about Pulci’s Morgante and the small 
corpus of his minor works, but it cannot be done without a careful philological review 
of Pulci’s sense of language and its cultural context. Such an investigation has been 
initiated by scholars, mostly Italians, but although in her bibliography Jordan cites 
De Robertis, Getto, Mariani, Attilio Momigliano, Nigro, Rajna, Rotondi, Ruggieri, 
Voigt, and Zingarelli (one could also suggest Carlo Curto’s Le tradizioni popolari nel 
Morgante di Luigi Pulci, Casale, 1918), none of these materials is processed to any 
noticeable advantage for her own antiphilological thesis. The same can be said in 
terms of the old problem of the Morgante’s first and second parts. Rajna spoke of the 
source problem in 1869; Hiibscher devised an edition of parallel texts between the 
Orlando and the Morgante in 1886. Both works are cited; only the former is used (46- 
47), but this with a view to undercut Zingarelli’s textual argument in favor of a whole 
work so that Jordan can privilege her deconstruing “structural” one (190). It is purely 
for the deconstructionist agenda that Jordan also eschews any close formalist critique 
by narrative and plot. Such a consideration would involve a thoughtful reading of 
Hiibscher’s parallel texts. It would also necessitate workable distinctions between 
“myth” and “narrative” and “myth” and “history” that Jordan cannot afford. 

Yet, for the sake of argument let us allow that Jordan’s work is somehow 
justifiably antiphilological and, thus, open only to a critique at a comparatist’s level. 
What has it to offer after its “theoretical” reduction? John Ellis has recently suggested 
in his Against Deconstruction (Princeton: Princeton UP, 1989) that deconstruction 
represents no theory at all. Helen Vendler in a recent New York Review of Books 
(xxxvii, no. 19) has complained that certain authors “have no clear idea what literary 
history can do” (24) and has asked that “‘criticism might also aim for concepts and 
language that do not violate the supple aims of imaginative work” (25). What the 
present reviewer should like to ask Jordan is to cease her psychologizing, her 
irrelevant semiotic “play” with words, her intellectually irresponsible desire to 
scatter signifieds as signifiers across the pages of a critical text at the expense of a 
poetic one, its language and its past. Jordan constantly falls through the ice critically 
and theoretically because she privileges the metaphors of her own narrative over the 
narrative intentions of the poet and poet-narrator and, therefore, the intentions of the 


Italian Bookshelf 453 


text itself. 

To make use of her suspiciously crabbed narrative of Pulci’s biography as a key 
to an interpretation of the Morgante represents a type of argument correctly rejected 
by New Criticism decades ago. To rely on the negative metaphors of deconstruction 
(Could Jordan have written her book without “irony,” “paradox,” “ambiguous,” 
“equivocal,” and “enigma?”) at the expense of the text’s most salient literary and 
stylistic features cannot invite confidence in an educated reader. To claim that a 
comparison of sources creates an “historiographer” of a poet is not only to invalidate 
the writing of history but also to suggest that Plautus and Terence as they supposedly 
engaged in contaminatio became, like the putative Pulci, “historians.” There might 
indeed be some humanly important parallels between Roman Comedy and Pulci, just 
as there are between Pulci and Byron, but Jordan’s deadly serious theorizing 
necessarily suppresses their possible presence. So must she distort or ignore the 
influence of Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, and popular song on the Morgante in an 
attempt to create of Pulci a Neo-Latinist, humanist-posthumanist historiographer. 

The English speaking world would enjoy Pulci’s Morgante; the English- 
American academy could find in it food for thought. Jordan’s and the Folger’s 
deconstructionist attempt in the name of the structuralist-poststructuralist hyphen is 
not a way of satisfying our need. 


46 


Raymond Adolph Prier 
Durham, North Carolina 


Diane Finiello Zervas. The Parte guelfa, Brunelleschi & Donatello. 
Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies at Villa I 
Tatti, 8. Locust Valley, NY: J. J. Augustin, 1988. Pp. xviii + 471 + 
plates. 


Diane Zervas’s study of the Parte guelfa and its patronage is a major achievement and 
a tribute to the impetus for interdisciplinary studies provided by the milieu of Villa I 
Tatti, the Harvard Center for Italian Renaissance Studies in Florence which 
encouraged the project and sponsored its publication. The present volume is an 
outgrowth of Zervas’s work on the Orsanmichele of Florence. What turned a planned 
chapter of another volume into an independent study in its own right was the 
discovery of a wealth of information in the Florentine archives on the activities of 
the Parte guelfa during the early Quattrocento, much of which has been reproduced in 
five lengthy appendices to the present volume. Zervas’s study is thus not only 
definitive for the present but points the way to new problems and researches for the 
future. 

Part One of Zervas’s study traces the history of the Parte guelfa in some detail 
from its formation in the Duecento to its eclipse (although not demise) in Medicean 
Florence in the mid-Quattrocento. Reading Zervas’s synopsis reminds one how 
complex and full of seeming contradictions the history of Trecento Florence really is, 
and — despite the labors of scholars such as Brucker, Witt, Molho and Najemy — 
how much more prosopographical research will be necessary before we can really 
comprehend it. Zervas’s list of Parte guelfa leaders, contained in Appendices I and II 


454 Italian Bookshelf 


and running from 1377 to 1460, will certainly help in this regard. 

The bulk of Zervas’s study centers on the two major commissions of the Parte in 
the Quattrocento, the statue by Donatello of St. Louis of Toulouse for the 
Orsanmichele and the construction of the new Sala Grande of the Parte’s Palazzo in 
Via delle Terme under the guidance of Brunelleschi. Both projects were undertaken, 
Zervas suggests, to enhance the leadership image of the Parte by advancing the new 
arte all’ antica. For Donatello the commission — his first bronze — was an important 
plum. In the dimensions and proportions of the tabernacle housing the statue Zervas 
finds significant parallels to the schemes used by Donatello’s friend and mentor 
Brunelleschi in the Old Sacristy of San Lorenzo, particularly in the employment of 
the Golden Section to determine the relationship of width to height — another 
element in the all’antica movement. 

When the Parte commissioned the St. Louis, it was at the height of its wealth and 
prestige as an adjunct of the oligarchic government of Florence. In one of her most 
intriguing hypotheses, Zervas suggests that the building of the Sala Grande, begun in 
1430, may have been conceived as an effort to reinforce the Parte and the city’s 
conservative elite in the face of growing Medicean dissent. Certainly the Parte fared 
poorly after 1434. Half of the proscribed citizens were Parte members, and the Parte 
itself was subject to harsh taxation, forced to make loans to the Monte which were 
subsequently credited to other institutions. As a result of greatly diminished revenues 
the Sala was never completed. 

Zervas’s labors shed new light on a variety of interesting subjects connected 
with the Parte and its vicissitudes, including Bruni’s chancellorship of the Parte, 
Brunelleschi’s political career, the Parte’s second palace in Via Calzaiuoli, etc. 
Appendix V publishes for the first time in its entirety the inventory (1431) of the 
Parte possessions by Niccold di Gentile degli Albizzi. The volume is handsomely 
produced, well-illustrated, and admirably indexed. 

T. C. Price Zimmerman 
Davidson College 


L’Espositione di Bernardino Daniello da Lucca sopra la Comedia di 
Dante. Hanover: Dartmouth College by UP of New England, 1989. 


L’Espositione di Bernardino Daniello da Lucca sopra la Comedia di Dante 2 \’opera 
promossa da studiosi americani, presenti e sottoscrittori anche della breve e intensa 
premessa: R. Hollander, J. Schnapp, K. Brownlee e N. Vickers. In concreto: si 
riproducono le note del commento di Bernardino Daniello, preceduto da cenni 
biografici (Vita e costumi del Poeta, con il rispetto anche della erronea data di nascita 
del Poeta: 1260) e dalla Introduttione universale nella Comedia di Dante. 

Il testo @ quello veneziano, “‘presso Pietro da Fino”, del 1586 (vol. in-4°, pp. 
727 + 12 nn.). Si conosce la varia fortuna dell’opera ed anche gli intrecci e i rapporti 
nella storia del dantismo (cfr. M. Barbi, La fortuna di Dante nel secolo XIX, Pisa 
1890, p. 262 ss.; A. Vallone, Storia della critica dantesca dal XIV al XX secolo, 
Milano, 1981, I, p. 357 ss.). In questa edizione la mancanza del testo della Divina 
commedia pud pero creare qualche difficolta ai riscontri che il lettore intende fare. Ma 





Italian Bookshelf 455 


non v’é dubbio che 1’offrire agevolmente tutto il patrimonio esegetico del Daniello 
rende, di per sé, un buon servizio allo studioso d’oggi. Il testo delle Note é riprodotto, 
in genere, fedelmente (v’é qualche ritocco grafico-formale); per di pit i luoghi dei 
riferimenti o delle citazioni, posti naturalmente tra parentesi quadre, si presentano 
anche entro il testo stesso. I] tutto poi si raccoglie, assai opportunamente, in tre 
Indici, che rendono un quadro esatto della quantita e della qualita della cultura di 
Bernardino Daniello. Percid (e si vuole dire: non solo per questo utile e proficuo 
accorgimento) salutiamo con piacere l’iniziativa del caro e illustre collega Robert 
Hollander, certo ideatore e coordinatore dell’iniziativa, e dei suoi collaboratori 
Aldo Vallone 
Universita degli Studi di Napoli 


Poesia e poetica delle rovine di Roma. Momenti e problemi. A c. di 
Vincenzo De Caprio. Quaderni di Studi Romani, serie 1, N. 47. 
Roma: Istituto di Studi Romani, 1987. Pp. 166. 


Nel 1986, 1’Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani patrocind un ciclo di conferenze, 
intitolato appunto “Poesia e poetica delle rovine di Roma”. I testi di quelle 
conferenze, che abbracciano il periodo compreso fra Petrarca e il primo Ottocento, 
vedono ora la luce in una elegante miscellanea. Nella breve ma succosa premessa, 
Vincenzo De Caprio avverte il lettore che la “campionatura @ certamente (ed era 
inevitabilmente) molto parziale rispetto all’ampiezza dell’arco cronologico e alla 
vastita della diffusione del tema” (7). Comunque si deve riconoscere che questa 
collettanea offre una panoramica assai stimolante della tematica delle rovine, che 
rivela notevoli possibilita di sviluppo. 

Il libro é articolato in sette saggi assai nutriti, su cui vale la pena di soffermarsi 
partitamente, sia pure nei limiti consentiti da una recensione di questo tipo. I] primo 
contributo, intitolato “Roma come sistema delle rovine” (9-19), é di Armando Gnisci, 
autore di notevoli studi comparatistici, fra i quali bastera menzionare il recente 
volume, [1 colore di Gaia. Azzurro (Roma: Carucci, 1989). Gnisci addita il paradosso 
della “idea di Roma come sistema delle rovine” (11), e, rielaborando gli spunti offerti 
in materia da un numero speciale della benemerita “Rivista di Estetica”, uscito nel 
1981, giunge alla conclusione che Roma “é un ecosistema artificiale archeologico 
simultaneo stratificato senza-fine diverso, doppio (pagano/cristiano) triplo (italiano) 
multiplo (caput mundi)” (18), che ne garantisce la eternita. Il saggio di Gnisci é, come 
tutti i suoi scritti, ricco di spunti geniali, sebbene |’accenno finale all’Eros eterno di 
Freud appaia una forzatura di stile francese. 

In “Sub tanta diruta mole: il fascino delle rovine di Roma nel Quattro e 
Cinquecento” (21-52), De Caprio prende le mosse da un testo di Lorenzo Valla per 
dimostrare che gli uomini del Rinascimento attribuivano alle rovine il significato di 
monumentum. Le rovine erano viste soprattutto in rapporto alla categoria del tempo, 
ed erano considerate come segni atti ad ammonire attraverso il rinvio ad una serie di 
concetti assai cari alla sensibilita umanistica, plasmata da Petrarca (dalla grandezza 
della civi!ta antica alla instabilita della fortuna, che tuttavia non escludeva la 
possibilita di un recupero, espresso dall’attesa escatologica di una renovatio 


456 Italian Bookshelf 


temporum). De Caprio accoglie sostanzialmente i risultati delle indagini di Angelo 
Mazzocco, ma tende a ricondurre la distinzione fra ]’antiquaria del Quattrocento e 
quella del Cinquecento “all’area caratterizzata dal sistema logico-semantico dei 
monumenta” (25n). 

Vale quindi la pena di leggere il saggio seguente, “Linee di sviluppo 
dell’antiquaria del Rinascimento” (53-71), in cui Mazzocco ribadisce la sua 
posizione, secondo cui |’antiquaria rinascimentale non va intesa semplicemente come 
“ricostruzione degli elementi archeologici”, ma soprattutto come “ricostruzione di 
tutti gli aspetti della vita classica: rovine, iscrizioni, monete, ma anche magistrature 
sacre e profane, divinita, sacerdozi, culto, comizi, senato, cariche amministrative, 
milizia, educazione, agricoltura, trionfi, ecc.” (55). In questo quadro, la cui 
complessita oltrepassa i limiti segnati da Arnaldo Momigliano in un saggio famoso, 
la distinzione fra ]’antiquaria del Quattrocento e quella del Cinquecento risulta molto 
pit sfumata di quanto non appaia a De Caprio: “Viste alla luce delle opere antiquarie 
dell’Umanesimo, quelle del Cinquecento si distinguono per il loro distacco critico. 
Gli antiquari del Cinquecento usufruiscono di tutte le fonti a loro disponibili, 
dimostrando una certa predilezione per i frammenti archeologici. . . . le opere 
antiquarie del Cinquecento servono ad informare invece di ispirare. [I] loro scopo 
principale é la ricostruzione esatta e completa dell’elemento antiquario. Non a caso 
l’antiquaria @ riconosciuta come disciplina a sé stante proprio nel Cinquecento” (65). 
Non so fino a che punto un discorso come questo sia conciliabile con il sistema 
logico-semantico dei monumenta, di cui parla De Caprio con una predilezione forse 
eccessiva per le formulazioni astratte. I1 mio dubbio, comunque, non vuole certo 
pregiudicare la validita di un dialogo, che dovrebbe continuare ed allargarsi a 
beneficio dei cultori di studi rinascimentali. 

La parte pid strettamente letteraria del volume in oggetto inizia con “Le rovine di 
Roma nella Gerusalemme liberata” (73-94), in cui Roberto Mercuri compie |’ exploit 
di trattare un tema che non esiste nel capolavoro tassiano, ricorrendo 
ingegnosamente alla “trama inconscia della psiche” e alla “identificazione fra Roma e 
Gerusalemme che affonda le sue radici nel travaglio esistenziale e nei fantasmi della 
psiche di Tasso” (75). Non si serve di moduli freudiani Liana Cellerino nel saggio “Or 
tutto intorno una ruina involve. Rovina e sublime morale nel Settecento” (95-111), 
ma qualche accostamento ardito non manca di farlo. Basti vedere la sua 
interpretazione di un passo di Volney del 1791, nel quale si parla delle rovine di 
Palmira, viste attraverso la descrizione di Robert Wood: “Volney pensa a Roma. Non 
é una congettura gratuita, per quanto sia anche evidente e ovvia, dal momento che il 
tema della rovina @ romano a partire dalle pit’ semplici sue strutture verbali” (102- 
103). Temo che questa affermazione possa essere smentita dalla storia 
dell’archeologia e del gusto ad essa legato, dalla quale risulta che 1’interesse degli 
antiquari tende a spostarsi, nel corso del Settecento, da Roma alla Magna Grecia e 
dall’Italia alla Grecia e al Medio Oriente. In ogni modo, |’autrice avrebbe dovuto tener 
conto del fatto che Palmira significava anche il luogo in cui, secondo una leggenda 
profondamente radicata, Longino, cui era attribuito il trattato Del sublime, aveva 
sfidato, tramite Zenobia, il dispotismo romano. 

La sequenza dei contributi propriamente letterari @ interrotta dal saggio “Le 
rovine nel 700 romano: vedute e immagini di repertorio archeologico” (113-130), in 
cui Elisa Debenedetti traccia la storia del vedutismo romano dal Seicento all’inizio 


Italian Bookshelf 457 


dell’Ottocento, insistendo sulla figura di Gaspar Van Wittel (Gaspare Vanvitelli). 
Dopo questo interessente excursus artistico, reso anche piv istruttivo dalla 
documentazione fotografica, l’obbiettivo torna a fissarsi sulla letteratura nell’ultimo 
saggio, intitolato appunto “Sulla letterarizzazione delle rovine in Leopardi” (131- 
156), nel quale Claudio Colaiacono addita nel recanatese, al di sotto della ben nota 
antipatia per gli antiquari romani, “una sensibilita archeologica allo strato e alla 
traccia” (134), che aiuta a comprenderne meglio la complessa e contraddittoria 
personalita. I] pregio del volume é accresciuto dall’indice dei nomi, redatto da Fausto 
Benedetti. 
Gustavo Costa 
University of California, Berkeley 


Jon R. Snyder. Writing the Scene of Speaking. Theories of Dialogue 
in the Late Italian Renaissance. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1989. Pp. 
xili, 297. 


The Italian Renaissance found the dialogue with its roots in the ancient world to be a 
very congenial form for conveying ideas. Petrarch wrote his Secretum, a dialogue 
with himself, and Leonardo Bruni, Leon Battista Alberti, Baldassare Castiglione, 
Pietro Aretino, and many others followed with dialogues on lofty and base subjects. 

In the second half of the sixteenth century Italian literary critics began to 
analyze and define the dialogue form. This monograph studies four critical works on 
dialogue written between 1561 and 1585, probably the total of such works produced 
at this time. Carlo Sigonio (c. 1520-84), professor of humanities at the University of 
Bologna and the ablest historian of late Roman and early Italian history of his 
century, wrote De dialogo liber in 1561. Lodovico Castelvetro (1505-71), brilliant 
and unconventional literary theorist and a Protestant, wrote La Poetica d’Aristotele 
vulgarizzata et sposta (1567) with comments on dialogue. Sperone Speroni (1500- 
88), professor at Padua and author of dialogues on a variety of subjects, wrote his 
Apologia dei dialoghi in 1574 which remained unpublished until 1596. Torquato 
Tasso (1544-95), poet and author of dialogues, wrote Discorso dell’arte del dialogo in 
1585. 

Sigonio attempted to formulate the principles by which the dialogue differed 
from other forms of writing. The speakers must possess equivalent social rank and 
age so that the superiority of one or the other will emerge “solely on the strength of 
the argument put forward” in the debate (60). He recognized that dialogue was a form 
of dialectic, but asserted that the dialogue had nothing to do with syllogistic 
reasoning. The part of dialectic that Sigonio found appropriate for dialogue was 
expositio which represented “ta scene of speaking” (71). In other words, the dialectic 
of dialogue was very much humanistic dialectic, i.e., a branch of rhetoric. The 
dialogue was disinterested speech free of rhetorical devices in search of consensus. 
Sigonio excluded from his definition the comic dialogue, thus rejecting Aretino’s 
dialogues. Sigonio especially viewed dialogue as a valued inheritance from the 
classical world, the legacy of Plato and Cicero. Overall, Sigonio offered a definition 
of dialogue that was classically humanistic, at a time when vernacular literature 


458 Italian Bookshelf 


culture was seeking autonomy from humanism, according to Snyder. 

In contrast to Sigonio’s classical humanistic definition of dialogue, Speroni saw 
dialogue as a kind of comedy. Dialogue was testing and encounter; it operated in the 
sphere of the probable rather than absolute truth. Dialogue permitted all facets of life 
to emerge even when error came forward. Indeed, error was part of dialogue’s process 
of searching and testing. Speroni insisted on the fictional nature of dialogue; it was 
free and comedic. Overall, Speroni defended a certain amount of freedom for the author 
to write freely in the Counter Reformation, which featured external control and self- 
restraint. To be sure, Speroni through his arguments defended some of his own early 
dialogues of the 1540s against the criticisms of the Master of the Sacred Palace, the 
pope’s theologian and censor of books. 

The final two treatises are a little less interesting. Castelvetro opposed the 
classicizing tendencies found in late Italian humanism and in Sigonio’s work on 
dialogue. Tasso disagreed with Castelvetro in order to reaffirm to some extent the 
views of Sigonio. For Tasso, dialogue was a reasoned discussion. The dialogue was 
grounded in speculative problems or ethical cases. It possessed philosophical 
dignity, although the non-fictional was entangled with the fictional. Snyder 
concludes the book with two Italian literary theorists of the seventeenth century. 
Pietro Sforza Pallavicino (1607-67) wrote a Trattato dello stile e del dialogo 
(published 1646, revised edition 1662), and Giambattista Manso (c. 1560-1645) 
wrote Del dialogo, which was published in 1628. These works located the dialogue in 
a different literary climate. 

Overall, Snyder has written an original and useful book on a neglected topic. The 
expositions of the texts are full and reasonably clear. Snyder merits praise for giving 
full quotations in the original Latin or Italian in the endnotes. He also offers 
additional useful information, such as the publishing history of the various treatises. 
Snyder has done an excellent job of searching out references to dialogue in Plato and 
other ancient writers and integrating them into the discussion. The bibliography does 
not omit anything of importance. Snyder has done his research well. 

Some criticism is in order. As one might expect in the late twentieth century, in 
which modern critical theory dominates literary history, the author often refers to 
twentieth-century literary theorists. It is less obtrusive than it might have been, 
because Snyder relegates much of it to the endnotes. Nevertheless, the text has too 
much “lit-crit” jargon which contributes little to the discussion of Renaissance 
dialogue. It is a barrier to the appreciation of the book. The author spends too much 
time “problematizing” (his word) the theme of the book, especially in a very long 
introductory chapter which could have been shortened. In addition, Snyder’s prose 
makes reading the book a chore at times. His very long sentences of seventy words or 
more, which are full of parenthetical expressions, near repetitions, and minor 
qualifying adjectives, often obfuscate the point. 

A final thought is that the treatises operated in isolation. Sigonio et al. offered 
theory; they did not analyze contemporary dialogues in order to illustrate their 
points. Hence, their theoretical writings have a kind of arid quality. This is typical of 
the second half of the Cinquecento; a further example can be found in the separation 
between the theory of history and the actual writing of history. It might have been 
interesting had Snyder compared theory with practice by analyzing a Renaissance 
dialogue or two in the light of the theories; did dialogue writers follow the paths 





Italian Bookshelf 459 


suggested by Sigonio et al.? Since both Speroni and Tasso wrote vernacular 

dialogues, their works would be prime candidates for such analysis. However, it is 

inappropriate to criticize an author for not having written a larger book. The present 

study contributes a valuable chapter to our knowledge of the literary history of the 
period. 

Paul F. Grendler 

University of Toronto 


One Hundred Renaissance Jokes: An Anthology. Ed. Barbara C. 
Bowen. Birmingham, AL: Summa Publications, 1988. Pp. xx + 107. 


Diamo notizia con leggero ritardo di questo volumetto, volendo informare gli studiosi 
e i docenti che, per difetto di diffusione, non ne abbiano ancora preso visione. 

Questa antologia si riallaccia ad altri notevoli contributi allo studio della facezia 
come genere letterario della curatrice, in particolare ai saggi : “Renaissance 
Collections of facetiae 1344-1490: A New Listing”; e “Renaissance Collections of 
facetiae 1499-1528: A New Listing,” apparsi in Renaissance Quarterly, 39 (1986): 1- 
15; 263-275, che offrono una concisa ma bene informata rassegna delle raccolte di 
facezie del Rinascimento, con relativo supporto di aggiornate bibliografie. 

Le cento facezie qui raccolte sono state trascritte da ventisette collezioni o testi 
diversi, con una concentrazione maggiore su quelli anteriori al 1528. Come c’era da 
aspettarsi, gli autori e compilatori italiani, sia in latino che in vernacolo, sono i pill 
preminenti: ben cinquanta delle cento facezie incluse provengono da raccolte del 
Petrarca (Rerum memorandarum libri, 1343-1345), del Bracciolini (Facetiae, 1470), 
di Lodovico Carbone (Facezie, ca. 1469), del Piovano Arlotto (Motti e facezie, ca. 
1480), del Pontano (De sermone, 1502), di Lodovico Domenichi (Facetie e motti 
arguti, 1548), oltre che da sillogi anonime quali il Bel libretto (ca. 1480) e le Facezie 
e motti (ca. 1480). Alcuni esemplari antologizzati sono tolti da altri testi: quattro dal 
De dictis et factis Alphonsi Regis del Panormita; tre dal commentario a questa 
biografia di Silvio Enea Piccolomini; quattro dal Cortegiano (libro II, 43-93) di 
Castiglione; tre dal De cardinalatu (libro II, cap. 9) di Paolo Cortesi; una dagli appunti 
di Leonardo. Presenti per il resto dei testi di autori tedeschi, francesi ed inglesi, ma 
non spagnoli, esclusi per ragioni cronologiche. In Ispagna si cominciarono a 
pubblicare queste compilazioni soltanto alla fine del Cinquecento. Tutti i testi 
originali trascritti, eccetto quelli inglesi, sono seguiti dalla traduzione in inglese 
della stessa curatrice. L’antologia @ ordinata cronologicamente, procedendo dal 
Petrarca alla raccolta francese Facecies et motz subtilz del 1559. Ciascuna sezione é 
provvista di un’introduzione critico-bibliografica e i testi a loro volta sono provwvisti 
di un corredo sobrio e funzionale di utili note esegetiche, che informano soprattutto 
sulle possibili fonti. 

Le versioni inglesi della Bowen (e abbiamo controllato solo quelle di testi in 
italiano o di autori italiani) sono scorrevoli, danno un’impressione di facilita anche 
nei passi in cui la traduttrice cerca di rimuovere le occasionali ambiguita del testo 
originale o é costretta, per motivi di chiarezza, a ricorrere ad interpolazioni. Le rese 
sfocate (per fare qualche esempio: non siamo proprio certi che l’imperfetto iterativo 


460 Italian Bookshelf 


Si possa rendere con il preterito in tutti i casi: “uno, quando il cavallo inciampava, 
diceva” reso come “a rider, when his horse stumbled, exclaimed”, 27) sono rare ed 
eclissate dalla totalita di una versione in generale accurata ed incisiva. 

La breve, ma densa e ricca, prefazione della Bowen (xiii-xix), di esplicito intento 
divulgativo, utilizza reperti e riprende giudizi espressi nei contributi bibliografici su 
citati. Pur fra le molte, e forse inevitabili, ovvieta il saggio contiene pertinenti 
osservazioni. I] primo merito dell’autrice @ innanzitutto quello di aver saputo sfumare 
con decisione, ma senza perdere in precisione, e collegare in sistema dinamico nuclei 
nodali, critici e teorici, quali la definizione della facezia, la formazione e destinazione 
delle raccolte. La Bowen vede la ragione principale della negligenza editoriale nella 
sconcertante diversita del materiale raggruppato nelle raccolte del tempo. 

E opinione diffusa che pochi testi sono pii rivelatori dello spirito di un’epoca di 
quelli che hanno da fare con il senso dell’umorismo. Ma la curatrice mette in guardia 
contro la pur legittima tendenza a trarre conclusioni su caratteristiche generali, sia a 
riguardo tematiche (per esempio, ignoranza dei preti, astuzia delle donne, ecc.) che le 
forme della facezia rinascimentale da un campionario cosi limitato. Due, secondo la 
Bowen, le ragioni. Da una parte, le scelte tematiche dei compilatori variano molto. 
Alcuni preferiscono per esempio facezie oscene, mentre altri le escludono 
sistematicamente. Dall’altra, un numero rilevante di facezie antologizzate nel periodo 
in questione sono classiche in origine, derivate dai soliti Cicerone e Macrobio, ma 
anche da exempla medievali ed epigrammi classici, e pertanto mancanti di originalita 
eccetto che quella che derivava dalla espressione (xvi-xvii). Pit’ specificamente, la 
Bowen si dichiara scettica nei riguardi di recenti tentativi di estrarre dalle collezioni di 
facezie, per esempio dal Cortegiano, idee dettagliate sull’umorismo rinascimentale 
(xvii). Gli strumenti esegetici si fermano perd ad un articolo di Robert Grudin del 
1979 sul Castiglione. Per reperti pit fertili, mi pare, bastava rimandare, sempre a 
proposito del Cortegiano, al tanto pit stimolante studio di J. Guidi, “Festive 
Nnarrazioni, motti e burle (beffe): l’art des facéties dans le ‘Courtisan’”, in Formes et 
significations de la ‘beffa’ dans la littérature italienne de la Renaissance (deuxiéme 
série), ac. di A. Rochon, Paris, CIRRI, 1975, 171-210, che pure viene menzionato 
nel secondo saggio bibliografico su ricordato. 

In ogni caso, giudicherei eccessivo lo scetticismo della curatrice ribadito nel 
giudizio conclusivo: “it seems altogether safer simply to try to evaluate each 
collection on its own terms and its own merits” (xvii). Proprio l’assunzione di questo 
presupposto, con le applicazioni conseguenti, comporterebbe la rinunzia ad 
iniziative del tipo qui proposto, e cioé di antologie dove di necessita gli autori sono 
rappresentati da pochi esemplari. Opportune indagini sui singoli compilatori e testi, 
gia da pit parti avviate, dimostrano con tutta evidenza, almeno per |’area italiana, che 
sono da respingersi energicamente sia la tesi della sostanziale anonimita delle 
raccolte di facezie sia il postulato della impossibilita della considerazione univoca in 
modo puntuale e sistematico del genere. Ricorderd qui, quasi a rappresentarli, lo 
studio di Anna Fontes-Baratto ‘“‘Pouvoir(s) du rire. Théorie et pratique des facéties au 
XVe et XVIe siécles: des facéties humanistes aux trois recueils de Lodovico 
Domenichi” in Réécritures 3. Commentaires, parodies, variations dans la littérature 
italienne de la Renaissance (Paris: Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1987, 9-100), 
che si presenta come una vera e propria monografia sulla pratica e teoria delle facezie 
nel Quattro e Cinquecento. Partendo dalle tre raccolte di facezie organizzate dal 


Italian Bookshelf 461 


Domenichi nel 1548, nel 1562 e nel 1564, l’autrice risale alle varie raccolte 
precedenti (fin al Liber facetiarum del Bracciolini, oltre alle raccolte del Carboni e del 
Poliziano), ma anche ai trattati teorici (il De sermone del Pontano, Il Cortegiano del 
Castiglione, il Galateo di Della Casa, i De ridiculis di V. Maggi e il VI libro della 
Poetica del Trissino) e ripropone il tema generale del racconto umoristico e del motto 
di spirito. La questione della facezia, per la Fontes-Baratto, rinvia a quella del senso 
dell’umorismo con tutte le implicazioni di ordine psichico, culturale, e linguistico 
che esso comporta, e cioé studiato nel contesto coevo ma anche nei suoi rapporti con 
la tradizione. L’operazione di rimaneggiamento del Domenichi tende in vari modi ad 
una attualizzazione e all’ammodernamento del repertorio, vernacolo ma anche 
classico, di facezie che viene messo al servizio di una retorica (v. la moda della 
raccolta autonoma di facezie) e di una pedagogia del discorso faceto (la redazione di 
trattati per la produzione-consumo della facezia e infine ]’elaborazione di trattati di 
poetica che affrontano il problema del comico e del riso in chiave aristotelica, ma 
rivisitata da Cicerone). 

Per concludere, pit! che rappresentare un’operazione specialistica per soli addetti 
ai lavori, il volumetto della Bowen s’inquadra in quel pit vasto recupero di opere che, 
suffragate da un largo credito culturale, si prestano ad una rinnovata attenzione. 
L’autrice é riuscita ad offrire un pit’ che adeguato campionario di facezie, apparse in 
molte raccolte e diverse lingue, ben rappresentative dell’epoca. L’iniziativa appare 
tanto pil’ meritoria qui nel nostro paese quando si tenga presente che in Europa 
l’attenzione alla letteratura dell’umorismo si é fatta abbastanza vivace negli ultimi 
tempi. Per restare fra i contributi editoriali pit recenti (mon menzionati dalla Bowen, 
se abbiamo guardato bene) sono da segnalare almeno i volumi di P. Ruelle: Les 
“Apologues” de Guillaume Tardif et le “Facetiae morales” de Laurent Valla (Généve: 
Slatkine, 1986); e di E. Musacchio e S. Cordeschi, JI riso nelle poetiche 
rinascimentali (Bologna: Cappelli, 1985), che contiene i testi, ma senza apparato, 
del De ridiculis di V. Maggi e lo Excursus sul riso di L. Castelvetro. Una citazione a 
parte merita la monumentale silloge The Oxford Book of Humorous Prose (New York: 
Oxford UP, 1990), il cui esilarante “conducted tour” sintomaticamente comincia con 
esemplari del quattrocentista William Caxton. 

Albert N. Mancini 
The Ohio State University 


Robert Tofte. Discourse to the Bishop of London. Ed. Robert C. 
Melzi. Biblioteca del viaggio in Italia 33. Genéve: Slatkine, 1989. 
Pp. lix + 148. 


Robert Melzi has recovered from oblivion a text and its author both worthy of the 
historian’s and the scholar’s attention. Robert Tofte, identified as “‘a part of the 
London intelligentsia” (xiii), after attending Oxford University, spent three years in 
Italy, 1591-94; he then returned to England to compose the present “Discourse” to 
Richard Bancroft, Bishop of London, describing the five popes and sixty cardinals 
during the period of his stay in Rome. The manuscript (Lambeth MS #1112) is 
carefully presented here, supported by a most helpful introduction, an index of catch 


462 Italian Bookshelf 


words, ample, almost excessive annotation and a comprehensive bibliography 
together with a glossary and index. Amidst such riches this reviewer has caught only 
two typos, both on page lii, footnote 50: “Marcel” should read “Michel Frangois” and 
“Henry VII” should read “Henry II.” 

Melzi’s useful introduction provides us with a valuable conspectus of an 
Englishman’s view of Rome at the end of the sixteenth century. Among relevant 
matters, the editor weighs the problem of how an ostensible Protestant could move 
with such ease in a highly papal, confessional context. In his consideration of 
Tofte’s religion, he rejects the notion that the English heretic had conveniently 
“turned his tippet”; instead he believes that Tofte simply dissembled his faith amidst 
the company of the two French Catholics with whom he was traveling. The account 
resulting from Tofte’s stay focuses on the activities and personalities of the great 
prelates maneuvering in Counter-Reformation Rome during these years. Most 
important is Melzi’s analysis of the two major sources for Tofte’s discourse: they 
derive first from Ciccarelli’s continuation of Platina’s De vitis Pontificum 
Romanorum and secondly from the current avvisi, salted with whatever gossip came 
his way. The resulting depictions tend to show the cracks separating the proper, 
official portraits from the ill-fitting, pithy, often semi-slanderous embellishments; 
worth noting, perhaps, is that Cardinal Perbenedicti is reported as being “‘a right 
Machiavellian” (55). 

Taking into account the considerable merits of Melzi’s Introduction, extensive 
footnotes and scholarly bibliography, one finds surprising the omission of the 
preeminent text of the period, designed for English readers, if also never published 
until recently: namely, Roma sancta (George B. Parks, ed., Roma, 1969), composed 
by Gregory Martin, one of the closest friends of Edmund Campion, an associate of 
William Allen as well as being the gifted translator of the Douai-Rheims Bible. For 
its comprehensive treatment of the religious life in Rome, the confessional 
commitment, and emotional impact, Martin’s idealized portrayal of the charities of 
Rome far transcends the present Discourse and constitutes one of the most important 
statements of the Counter Reformation church. The omission is all the more 
astonishing in that Melzi includes other works by Martin’s editor, George B. Parks, 
in his bibliography as well as Frederick McGuiness’ article that has Roma sancta as 
its focus. The opening paragraph of the Introduction complains of a dearth of material 
by Englishmen fresh from Rome in this period, but the basis for this view derives 
from the soundings of Lewis Einstein, taken in 1902. 

Yet let us not be churlish. While by this omission the opportunity for a valuable 
perspective is lost, the oversight does not substantively affect the worth of the 
present work and its author for Renaissance studies. The editor has surely made a 
contribution in his bringing to light an Elizabethan, who, transformed into a 
Renaissance Italian, ironically by his very absorption of an increasingly alien 
culture in a confessional age managed to relegate his own work to a protracted 
oblivion. 

John M. Headley 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Italian Bookshelf 463 


Louise George Clubb. Italian Drama in Shakespeare’s Time. New 
York: Yale UP, 1989. Pp. x1 + 292: 17 illustrations. 


Arising from the need to provide “a picture of Italian drama as Shakespeare might 
have seen it,” and to open thus “a view different from that of Italianists on the one 
hand and of traditional source studies on the other” (ix), Jtalian Drama in 
Shakespeare's Time — the product of the author’s long-standing communion with 
Renaissance drama — is a collection of eleven essays exploring the probable 
connection between Italian and English drama. 

The present book is divided into three major parts — Comedy, Pastoral, and 
Tragedy — which are enclosed within a prologue (“Theatergrams”) on theory and 
structure, and an epilogue (“The Law of the Writ and the Liberty: Italian Professional 
Theater”) on practice and the “commedia dell’arte.” Although some of the essays 
appeared previously in scholarly journals (the earliest, ““The Virgin Martyr’ and the 
Tragedia Sacra,” was published in 1964 in Renaissance Drama), they form a coherent 
historical account with the author’s latest studies published here for the first time. 
This study is a provocative perspective inspired by the Renaissance principle of 
construction by contamination of plots and theatergrams. According to the author, 
by manipulating structural units, mixing genres, merging disparate sources, and by 
combining and varying plots, Italian playwrights were able to produce new versions 
of comedy (“grave,” “regolare,” “letteraria,” “classica,” “dell’arte,” “tragicomica’’) 
and tragedy, as well as give rise to a third genre, the pastoral play. Consequently, she 
sustains that “whatever the primary sources of comedy, literary or improvised, may 
have been, the ubiquitous and unceasing activation of the essential principles of 
Cinquecento comedy, contamination and complication, illustrates how theater comes 
from theater, self-nourishing, self-reproducing, and evolving” (7). 

In Ariosto’s comedies, especially / suppositi, 1509), she evidences the 
tendency of Italian comedy “toward a looking-glass perspective” that would distance 
it increasingly from “Plautine and Terentian hellenizing by bringing the plot home” 
(9). Clubb argues convincingly that “the choice of a sexual center differentiating 
Renaissance New Comedy from its Roman model (in which a bound-for-bed action 
was optional, and marriageable female characters could easily be dispensed with as 
stage presences) directed the mainstream of the Cinquecento genre toward the figure of 
the woman desired and desiring, a requisite datum of plot that, with usage, would 
become the staple giovane innamorata” (8). For example, the author observes that 
the woman in love in Ariosto’s Suppositi (Polimnesta) is marriageable, and her lover 
(Erostrato) has reached her bed. 

The strength of this work lies in the critical value of Clubb’s observations on 
the theatergram of woman. The most provocative essay is “Woman as Wonder: 
Theatergram of Italian and Shakespearean Comedy” (65-89). In the absence of 
concrete evidence about Shakespeare’s reading of Italian plays, but in light of the 
access that Shakespeare had to Italian plays (performed in England, translated for 
academics and town audiences, and many available in private collections), Clubb 
offers glaring similarities between Italian Renaissance comedy and that of 
Shakespeare. Of particular interest are the observations regarding the existence of a 
relationship between the “commedia grave” and All’s Well That Ends Well. According 
to Clubb, the roots of the “vital principles” of All's Well are to be found not in ideas 


464 Italian Bookshelf 


about the genre of tragicomedy (as suggested by A. Kirsch and J. W. Lever) so as to 
establish a direct link with Guarini’s Pastor fido; rather, the roots are to be traced to 
the “commedia grave” with its juxtaposition of extremes and increasing inclusion of 
the “inner reality of emotion”; the roots, she indicates correctly, are to be found in 
the genre of comedy fostered by Bernardino Pino and praised by Tasso. As in 
numerous Counter-Reformation “commedie gravi” in which “the tendency toward 
abstraction is definitive and the major theme is invested in a feminine figure” that 
functions as a “vehicle for idea” (66-67), so too Shakespeare’s investment of idea in 
the figure of the woman leads “to a concluding secular miracle that produces secondary 
religious overtones for audiences attuned to everyday Christian interpretations of 
life” (82). According to Clubb’s penetrating analysis, Helena (All's Well) bears 
remarkable family resemblance to her antecedent Italian figures (Drusillas, Erminias, 
and Alessandras). Furthermore, Shakespeare’s use of the Clown, “cynical about 
goodness in women,” and of Parolles, “as foils to Helena’s goodness and benign 
influence in Beltram, reflects the practice of Italian comic dramaturgy” (81-82). 

A disappointment regarding this erudite study is the absence of a final 
bibliography, a disservice to students and scholars interested in Italian and English 
drama. However the book does contain a useful index and a vast list of Italian plays — 
and valuable illustrations (although the rare Acamante’s frontispiece would warrant 
some elucidating comments, but that is the reviewer’s shortcoming). Also, one might 
wish that the author had developed further her otherwise excellent essay, “The Law of 
the Writ and the Liberty: Italian Professional Theater” (249-80). In this essay, 
although the observations on the development of the “commedia dell’arte” are 
historically sound, the remarks on practice seem to be made in a general way. 

Notwithstanding the aforementioned suggestions, Clubb’s /talian Drama in 
Shakespeare's Time is a penetrating study which reflects the latest criticism in this 
area. Above all, it opens doors to further scholarly research. 


Salvatore Cappelletti 
Providence College 


Francesco Guardiani. La meravigliosa retorica dell’Adone di G. B. 
Marino. Firenze: Olschki, 1989. Pp. 166. 


Per dimostrare che “la poetica mariniana é filosofia”, cosi si legge a conclusione di 
questo libro, l’autore rivisita con molta acutezza il poema mitologico di Marino. 
Come strumento d’analisi sceglie la retorica aggiustata a seconda del necessario con 
suggerimenti da due méntori di grande stazza come il Pozzi e Northrop Frye. 
Escludendo premessa e conclusioni, su cui torneremo in finale, il libro si divide in tre 
parti, le tre canoniche parti della retorica. 

La prima parte riguardante l’inventio studia il principio organizzatore e 
produttivo del poema. Con una mossa molto abile e convincente |’autore individua 
nella struttura del poema la stessa forma compositiva che si trova negli innumerevoli 
(659) madrigali del Marino. Una forma binaria costituita da un esordio enunciativo, in 
cui si mostra una verita data e ferma nel tempo, e una conclusione riflessiva, in cui si 


Italian Bookshelf 465 


medita sull’affermazione di prima. Nella pratica concreta il Marino adottd questa 
formula in tutti i suoi madrigali sia nella forma completa sia in una forma ellittica 
comprendente solo la seconda parte. Questa logica binaria a livello dei contenuti poi 
si presenta come contrasto tra percezione oggettiva vs percezione soggettiva, topoi 
classici vs realismo dei fatti, positivo trionfalismo vs angoscia di ripercorrere strade 
nuove, inesplorate. Stessa logica si ritrova nella struttura compositiva dell’Adone 
che é allora un poema-madrigale. Ripercorrendo la trama del poema, il critico trova 
una netta cesura al canto XI, di stessa natura della cesura che si instaura tra le due parti 
di un madrigale. Nella prima parte del poema si assiste ad un processo di 
miglioramento continuo dell’eroe ed ad uno stato perpetuo di felicita ideale. Nella 
seconda invece, il momento di riflessione, l’eroe @ investito da una serie di peripezie 
che lo rendono pili attivo e soggettivo, reale ma anche angosciato, fino alla morte 
orrenda. Questa morte viene interpretata dal critico come una morte sacrificale, simile 
alla morte di Cristo per la salvezza dell’umanita. Per convalidare questa 
interpretazione, l’autore trova dei riscontri della vicenda di Adone con quella di 
Cristo. Sono riscontri possibili ma marginali rispetto alla fabula. Dove abbiamo un 
adolescente bellissimo che passa dalle voglie di Venere alle voglie furiose di un 
cinghiale che lo uccide per la troppa passione. Come far coincidere questi elementi 
con la vicenda di Cristo? Se, come afferma il critico, Marino era molto preoccupato 
dell’Inquisizione, come poteva mai pensare di velare la storia di Cristo in quella di un 
giovinetto morto per eccesso d’amore da parte di un animale? O forse gli inquisitori 
erano pil! ingenui del critico moderno? Inoltre non é ben chiaro quale sia l’ideale per 
cui si sacrifica il giovinetto, che fra ]’altro non si sacrifica coscientemente come fece 
Cristo. La metamorfosi di Adone in anemone, per il critico simile alla resurrezione di 
Cristo, non si vede come possa portare un mondo migliore fatto di pace e tolleranza. 
Forse questa era l’aspirazione di Marino nell’ultimo canto del poema, ma difficile mi 
sembra poter agganciare questa aspirazione al “sacrificio” di Adone anche attraverso 
una improbabile identificazione di costui con Cristo. Si potrebbe anche pensare che 
durante la lunga gestazione del poema Marino tendesse verso questo messaggio 
cristiano, ma che ci sia riuscito in pieno @ argomento molto discutibile. 

Nel secondo capitolo sulla dispositio, dopo una breve introduzione in cui si 
ribadisce la logica binaria, o “legge del due”, il critico intraprende con grande 
preparazione un interessante paragone tra le varie fasi di stesura e di progetto del 
poema. Si va da una prima redazione del 1594 circa all’edizione a stampa del 1623. 
Facendo l’analisi molto minuziosa ed erudita di tutti 1 passaggi che portarono 
all’edizione definitiva, l’autore fa anche la storia di come la struttura binaria si sia 
formata. I] passaggio pit notevole infatti procede da una struttura ternaria e chiusa al 
centro, nell’episodio dei “trastulli’, a una finale invece “aperta” a tante possibilita. 
Ancora qui sembra che il critico, partito da un’ottima analisi dello sviluppo nel tempo 
del poema si lasci poi sfuggire di mano le sue interpretazioni. Se infatti il messaggio 
a cui tende la resurrezione di Adone e la sua metamorfosi in Cristo @ quello della pace, 
non si capisce allora come adesso il poema diventi polisignificante, aperto a 
“possibilita interpretative infinite”. Nelle ultime pagine del capitolo infatti lo 
studioso mette in dubbio proprio tutta ]’interpretazione di cui voleva convincerci nel 
capitolo precedente. Una strategia post-moderna? 

La terza parte dedicata all’elocutio poggia sulle riflessioni del Frye nel The Great 
Code sui “modi” di forma retorica che l’uso del langage ha assunto nella storia. 


466 Italian Bookshelf 


D’ascendenza vichiana, queste formulazioni sono affascinanti nella loro generalita e 
servono spesso a catterizzare epoche di pensiero contrastanti. Dopo una fase 
“geroglifica” e una “ieratica” (non stiamo qui a spiegare) arriviamo ad una fase, 
chiamata ambiguamente “demotica”, in cui predomina una forma di pensiero delle 
somiglianze, per cui oggeto e soggetto sono separati, e il figurato e il figurante 
distinti. Quindi la centralita della metafora secondo le indicazioni del maggior teorico 
del tardo barocco. Ora per Tesauro la metafora non é per nulla similitudine abbreviata. 
Anzi nella concezione della metafora in Tesauro i tre modi di significazione segnalati 
dal Guardiani (“this is that, this is put for that, this is like that”) coesistono 
amorevolmente e a prevalere € semmai la seconda forma, quella ieratica, e non la 
terza. Rispetto alla soluzione poetica del Marino, legato ancora ad un petrarchismo di 
antitesi, la speculazione teorica del Tesauro @ molto pit rischiosa, molto pit verso la 
strada della conoscenza che non delle sensazioni. Giustamente Guardiani lega lo stile 
del Marino all’“esercizio dei sensi” attraverso cui arriva alla sua forma di conoscenza, 
al pensiero, all’idea. Da cui viene che gli oggetti della similitudine, il figurato e il 
figurante e il tertium comparationis , devono per Marino essere presenti 
contemporaneamente o nella similitudine o nell’antitesi. E’ proprio in quest’aspetto, 
che possiamo addirittura denominare come classicismo , che secondo me il Marino @ 
distante da tanti eccessi del secolo. Rispetto al Petrarca, ci dice il Guardiani, il Marino 
non tende ad una soluzione metafisica, al raggiungimento di un ideale: egli 
“relativizza l’assoluto”. Ma anche in quest’ultima parte del capitolo il critico smussa 
notevolmente le sue analisi e interpretazioni di prima fino ad ammettere che Marino 
non aveva ideali e che per lui quello che contava era il successo immediato. 

Il libro del Guardiani é@ infine meritevolissimo, e i dubbi che ho sopra sollevato 
debbono servire per discutere. Con questo libro siamo alla presenza di una globale 
interpretazione del poema, operazione che non é stata tentata da moltissimi anni, o 
forse é meglio dire non é mai stata tentata. I] pregio di Guardiani, oltre alle minute 
analisi spessissimo illuminanti, é quello di aver rischiato per la prima volta la via 
dell’ interpretazione. Ora su molte cose non siamo d’accordo, o meglio non tutto ci 
sembra convincente. Ci sono tanti aspetti che comunque sono illuminanti e che sono 
sicuro nei possimi anni verranno sfruttati pil profondamente. Quello che proprio non 
ci convince tanto é la direzione “umanistica” dell’interpretazione del Guardiani che 
troviamo nell’introduzione e nella conclusione del libro. La preferenza data alla 
cosiddetta scuola di “retorica umanamente intesa” contro una retorica tecnico- 
linguistica ci lascia molto perplessi. Ci lascia perplessi perché poi nel corpo 
dell’ analisi non si cita mai Perelman (ma appartiene proprio a questa scuola?) o Grassi 
o anche Barilli, ma soltanto il buon manuale del Lausberg. Nella conclusione poi si 
forza la mano nel voler assegnare al poema del Marino una “‘lezione di vita” per il 
lettore moderno (ma dov’é questo lettore?): tolleranza per idee, uomini e culture 
diverse da noi. Questa sarebbe la filosofia del Marino: dalla molteplicita meravigliosa 
e retorica dell’Adone alla molteplicita ideologica del suo autore (o del suo critico?). 

Emilio Speciale 
University of Chicago 


Italian Writers of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries: A 


Italian Bookshelf 467 


Selection of the Best Literature. Trans., introd., pref. and “An 
Essay on Translation” by Paschal C. Viglionese. Jefferson, 
McFarland and Company, 1988. Pp. x + 197. 


The old Italian saying “‘traduttore-traditore” and Robert Frost’s definition of poetry as 
“that which gets lost from verse to prose in translation” hold some truth regarding 
translated literary texts. According to purists, who claim that translation is 
impossible, the solution to the problem of betrayal of content and form is to read 
literature in its original language; the ideal solution therefore would consist in 
learning the language of another culture. Easier said than done. Nonetheless, 
translation — which equals human communication in George Steiner’s After Babel — 
is not only possible, but necessary because it can be used as a point of departure to a 
dialogue with another culture. 

Designed to make available examples of Italian literature from the period 
between 1600 and 1800, the present anthology offers a selection of 88 representative 
texts (short lyric poems, excerpts from longer poems, pieces of prose, and a 
sampling of theater) by major and minor writers (sixteen of the Seicento and fourteen 
of the Settecento). Most of the translations are based on texts included in the 
Ricciardi’s mammoth series La letteratura italiana: storia e testi. The introduction to 
this well edited volume is very valuable to the reader because it presents clearly the 
major literary currents and polemics of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. 
Another unique feature of this volume is the enlightening “Essay on Translation” in 
which Viglionese discusses theories and techniques of translating, and demonstrates 
how a literary text is translated. 

In translating poetry the author employs sometimes the “mimetic” approach, 
and at other times (as necessity dictates) he “restores” the original text by using the 
“analogical” approach. To get an idea of how faithful Viglionese’s translations are to 
the original texts, let us consider the “mimetic” rendition of the first quatrain in the 
sonnet “On Christ’s Death” by Campanella: “Death, wages of man’s most ancient 
sin,/ envy’s daughter, to negativity / contributor, Old Serpent’s kin,/ his consort foul 
in vile impurity” (vv. 1-4). Original text: “Morte, stipendio della colpa antica,/ 
dell’invidia figliuola, e del niente/tributaria, e consorte del serpente,/ superbissima 
bestia ed impudica” (vv. 1-4). 

Clearly, the translator has made certain compromises in terms of sound and 
meaning to achieve a close “mimetic” rendition of the original text. For example, the 
word /kin/ would seem extraneous because it lacks a specific equivalent in the Italian 
text. However, a close examination of the original quatrain reveals that the choice of 
/kin/ is not only appropriate — since it exists within the semantic range of 
/consorte/ and /figlia/, “consort” and “daughter” — but also ingenious because the 
alliteration of /kin/ and /consort/ restores (as Viglionese points out) that of 
/serpente/ and /superbissima/ in the original. 

The English version of the sonnet “To Death” by Alfieri (the last lyric poet in 
this anthology, the first being Campanella) seems representative of how Viglionese 
uses the “analogical” approach in translating Italian texts: “Tell me, Death: if you 
know it irks me, why / do you wait to put an end to this life I spend / in shackles, not 
deigning to bow as a slave?” (vv. 9-11). Original text: “Morte, a troncar 
l’obbrobriosa vita,/ che in ceppi io traggo, io di servir non degno,/ che indugi omai, 


468 Italian Bookshelf 


se il tuo indugiar m’irrita?” (vv. 9-11). Though some poetry got lost (as Frost would 
say) — the rhyme, the omission of /obbrobriosa/, the powerful images suggested by 
the verb /traggo/ (“drag, pass, spend tediously and with difficulty”) and the verb 
/indugi/ (“linger, dwell, drag out slowly”) — Viglionese achieved a superb rendition 
of Alfieri’s poem by having found a form which (as defined in his “Essay on 
Translation”) “is analogous to the function that the form in the original has in its 
own language” (182); furthermore, the “analogical” approach (which “tends to 
‘naturalize’ the translated poem”) was a favorite method in the Age of Enlightenment; 
therefore choosing it to translate Alfieri’s sonnet was very appropriate as it reveals 
also something about the art of translating as practiced in the eighteenth century. 

In reviewing translations, objections and suggestions are easy to come by, 
especially when it comes to poorly translated works. However in Viglionese’s 
accurate translation I did not verify any major flaw. My only suggestion is that in the 
table of contents the author should have indicated the beginning of the section 
assigned to writers of the eighteenth century. But that minor oversight is readily 
remedied by the biographical sketches and critical comments that are prefixed to each 
selection in this volume. 

The present anthology fills a significant void, and provides a comprehensive 
collection revealing those riches of the Italian literature that are increasingly sought 
after in Italy and abroad. We owe Viglionese immense gratitude for this major 
contribution to Italian studies. 

Salvatore Cappelletti 
Providence College 


Anna Santoro. Narratrici italiane dell’Ottocento. Napoli: Federico 
& Ardia, 1987. Pp.158. 


La raccolta Narratrici italiane dell’ Ottocento é il frutto di molti anni di sistematiche 
ricerche alla Nazionale di Napoli, ed @ anche una significativa presentazione del 
contributo femminile alla letteratura del diciannovesimo secolo. Non si tratta, 
secondo la Santoro, di dimostrare soltanto la validita e la differenza di tale apporto 
nei confronti della produzione maschile, ma di “reperire” 1’abbondante materiale 
esistente e di vagliare sistematicamente il contesto sociale della scrittrice, il suo 
modo di scrivere ed il tempo che spesso ne ha soffocata la produzione, degna di ben 
altro risultato. Anche se si pud parlare di una cospicua partecipazione femminile al 
mondo culturale fin dall’inizio del secolo attraverso giornali e riviste, salotti e 
traduzioni di scrittrici straniere, é tuttavia soprattutto dopo la seconda meta che la 
produzione letteraria si fa rilevante. 

Fra le tante, la Santoro sceglie undici scrittrici che hanno in comune il fatto di 
essere donne coraggiose e straordinarie, “perché eccezionalmente riuscirono a vivere 
al di fuori delle mura domestiche” (13). Altro elemento che le accomuna é la garbata 
ironia dello stile, che sottolinea il distacco dai personaggi femminili con i quali le 
autrici si identificano solo parzialmente. A questo proposito giustamente la Santoro 
scrive che tale ironia non “é un’eredita manzoniana” perché “‘queste scrittrici giocano 
su se stesse, riflettono su abitudini e modi di pensare che le coinvolgono” molto pit 


Italian Bookshelf 469 


di quanto Renzo e Lucia coinvolgessero Manzoni (15). 

La raccolta offre un’ampia panoramica di temi e situazioni. Le autrici sono 
geograficamente spaziate dal Nord al Sud, e rappresentate quasi sempre da brani presi 
da opere diverse, in modo da offrire al lettore un quadro pil’ ampio e obiettivo. 

La raccolta si apre con Caterina Percoto, ed i due racconti proposti dalla Santoro, 
“La donna di Osopo” e “Il Licof” esemplificano il duplice interesse della scrittrice. La 
miseria morale e l’assoluta poverta del mondo contadino in lotta per la 
sopravvivenza, si contrappongono all’ambiente aristocratico borghese del secondo 
racconto, dove la contessa Ardemia lotta contro le convenzioni sociali che la 
vogliono “donna-oggetto” e la osteggiano nel suo lento ma inarrestabile farsi donna 
responsabile e indipendente. I due mondi, contadino e borghese, sono ugualmente 
presenti nel romanzo La Marchesa Alviti di Matilde Gioli. Rimane sempre grande 
spazio per l’amore, a volte melodrammatico, come nell’opera della Natoli Ayossa 
Griefo, dove le donne sono caratterizzate da una nevrosi di maniera, mentre i 
protagonisti maschili sono intellettuali incompresi e decadenti. A volte questo amore 
@ estremamente epidermico e volubile, come nella tenera storia della Mancini 
Pierantoni Donnina, dove Memma, sposa-bambina @ vittima di un matrimonio 
convenzionale. 

Amore, vuoto d’amore, incomprensione del sacrificio stesso nato dall’amore, 
come nel racconto Lanterna magica di Rosalia Piatti, dove i personaggi sono con 
pochi tratti fissati nella nostra memoria come bozzetti veristici: ecco la struttura 
portante della raccolta. 

Caratteristica quindi dominante di queste scrittrici é ]’intuitiva sensibilita verso 
la condizione femminile, e la capacita di rappresentarla con toni moderati come uno 
stato di sofferenza, di costrizione, di inumanita. 

Ma non c’é sempre solo amore e sofferenza. Maria Savi Lopez, nel racconto Casa 
Leardi descrive la fine della societa aristocratica e l’avvento della societa borghese, 
dove le qualita individuali creano i] benessere meritatamente conquistato con il lavoro 
e il sacrificio. 

La Santoro sottolinea chiaramente la funzione educativa degli scritti femminili, 
funzione non solo “indotta” dall’ideologia ottocentesca, ma anche disposizione 
femminile naturale che spinge la donna-scrittrice a voler modificare una situazione 
sociale negativa, anche se non é sempre socialmente impegnata come 1’Aleramo. 

Tale funzione docente é velata ma effettiva in Prendo moglie, della gia citata 
Piatti, e nel racconto Un’eredita della Contessa Lara, dove l’ironia sottolinea tanti 
luoghi comuni che sono pero tristi realta del rapporto moglie-marito. 

Il volume della Santoro ha molti pregi: ci presenta una rapida ma variata 
antologia della letteratura femminile della seconda meta dell’Ottocento e inquadra le 
autrici nel contesto letterario e sociale. E un libro di piacevole lettura e di iniziazione 
alla “scrittura femminile”, voce a lungo silente, né ascoltata, né apprezzata, ma 
finalmente riconosciuta nella sua diversita. 

Rosalia Colombo Ascari 
Sweet Briar College 


Leopardi nella critica internazionale. A c. di Mario Santoro. 


470 Italian Bookshelf 


Quaderni di “Esperienze letterarie’, 1. Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 
1989. Pp. 301. 


Come il curatore del volume ci informa nella premessa, i saggi qui raccolti, ad 
eccezione di cinque, sono stati tutti pubblicati nella rivista Esperienze letterarie 4 
(1987) e 1 (1988) al fine di commemorare il centocinquantesimo anniversario della 
morte del grande poeta recanatese. La maggior parte di essi sono stati scritti da 
studiosi che operano all’estero, in vari paesi europei e da questa parte dell’ Atlantico, 
Stati Uniti e Canada. Domina pertanto una prospettiva di dimensione globale, 
internazionale, che mentre consente di superare gli angusti limiti nazionali, il 
provincialismo e il campanilismo, si serve di strumenti critici ed approcci nuovi 
d’avanguardia, dimostrando ad un tempo una conoscenza profonda delle opere di 
Leopardi. 

Non tutti gli autori sono degli specialisti di Leopardi, e al primo sguardo si 
rimane sconcertati al vedere quella lunga lista di nomi stranieri schierati a fianco di 
Leopardi. Tuttavia, iniziata la lettura dei singoli saggi, ci si accorge subito di trovarsi 
di fronte a una vasta panoramica di studi seri, spesso originali, di contributi rilevanti, 
che attestano la statura internazionale della personalita poetica di Leopardi, vista 
sotto diverse angolature e prospettive critiche. 

Per ragioni di spazio, fisseremo la nostra attenzione non tanto sui singoli saggi, 
quanto su questa prospettiva internazionale, cercando di definirla e valutarla. E 
impossibile, in questa sede, esaminare tutti gli articoli (venti), mi soffermerd quindi 
solo su alcuni pit importanti che interessano maggiormente per la loro originalita e 
novita d’interpretazione; mi limiterd a citare gli altri, a sottolineare alcuni aspetti, 
meriti o limiti, raggruppando — quando é possibile — i vari articoli secondo il 
soggetto o i paesi di provenienza. Il nostro scopo principale resta la valorizzazione 
della prospettiva internazionale, che @ sottesa ai saggi conferendo ad essi una certa 
unita, anche se estrinseca e programmatica. 

Il valore dei saggi, com’é da aspettarsi con tanti collaboratori, varia 
sensibilmente: si passa da disamine erudite e sagaci ad analisi impressionistiche e 
superficiali, che poco o nulla aggiungono alla conoscenza di Leopardi. Il volume non 
@ organizzato secondo criteri precisi, tematici o geografici. Sta al lettore annodare i 
vari fili, sintetizzare i risultati dei singoli contributi. Detto cid — il che costituisce 
un inconveniente inerente allo stesso genere di pubblicazione (le sillogi, le raccolte 
di scritti, le antologie), dove @ materialmente impossibile raggiungere 1’unita, 
l’organicita dell’opera — bisogna rilevare che nel volume sussiste nondimeno un 
nesso, una tematica comune, che funge da filo conduttore e che potremmo definire la 
fortuna di Leopardi nel mondo, intorno a cui s’annodano e si sviluppano i vari temi 
trattati, anche se indipendentemente e da prospettive diverse. Nella struttura del 
volume, cioé, @ possibile distinguere aspetti e filoni, che ne costituiscono le 
componenti principali. Nei saggi predomina una prospettiva comparativistica: 
“Cardarelli e Leopardi” di Di Biase, “Pope e Leopardi” di Lynne Press, “La visione 
poetica della natura nella lirica di Leopardi e di Tjutcev” di Nina G. Elina, ed alcuni 
altri. Ciascun articolo @ seguito da un denso quanto utilissimo riassunto in varie 
lingue; il che giova sia alla comprensione del saggio, sia alla maggiore diffusione 
della poesia leopardiana nel mondo. 

Un altro aspetto fondamentale del volume concerne I’analisi critica di alcuni 


Italian Bookshelf 471 


canti, in particolare L’infinito, o temi come la satira e la poetica, di cui daremo 
qualche cenno pil avanti. Si tratta, in verita, di riletture e di nuove interpretazioni 
eseguite su un terreno pressoché saturo, che non offre molte novita, germi nuovi e 
vitali. Rientrano in questo gruppo l’articolo di A. Verna, “Aspasia Rivisited”, 
un’analisi acutamente articolata, e l’articolo di Anna Urbancic, “L’importanza di 
Consalvo nel ciclo di Aspasia”, in cui si sostiene la tesi di un’affinita tematica fra 
Aspasia e Consalvo, la sintesi di amore e morte, malgrado la data del canto sia 
anteriore di dieci anni. Il che, in veritaé, non risulta una vera scoperta. Ricordiamo, 
infine, la penetrante lettura de L’infinito di Pier-Giorgio Conti dell’Universita di 
Berna. Dicevamo che L’infinito @ letto e riletto da quasi tutti i leopardisti simile a una 
preghiera, il che non sarebbe male; il guaio é che parecchi ricorrono alla filosofia e 
all’erudizione, come fa appunto il francese Marcel Orcel; 1’infinito allora diventa 
“finito”, il canto e la bellezza svaniscono lasciando i detriti del pensiero e 
dell’erudizione. Particolarmente acuta e stimolante ci pare la lettura del “Tramonto 
della luna: The Spectacle of Nature” di Denzil Kelly dell’ Australia, in cui si sottolinea 
lo “spettacolo” pit che la sintesi dei soliti temi e immagini, cogliendo la tensione 
drammatica fra le visioni immaginate della natura e la realta della condizione umana. 
Conclusione che non si discosta da quelle date in precedenza, anche se non convince 
troppo il richiamo alla patina di secentismo. 

Alla lettura di singole liriche leopardiane, s’intrecciano studi sulla personalita e 
la tematica di Leopardi, per esempio il saggio di Dorothy Glenn, in cui si considera 
centrale il tema della felicita sia nella poesia che nel pensiero leopardiano; tema in 
verita gia pit volte trattato dalla critica pur in diversa chiave e prospettiva. Di 
particolare impegno sono, infine, 1’articolo di Vittorio Russo, “La tentazione della 
morte in Giacomo Leopardi”, e quello della studiosa spagnola Maria de las Nieves 
Mufiiz Mufiiz “Sul concetto di decadenza storica in Leopardi”, in cui si considera il 
concetto di decadenza essenziale alla visione leopardiana, mentre si trascura di 
rilevare, in questo sistema filosofico, il ruolo positivo, eroico dell’immaginazione, 
dei miti, della poesia, che muove guerra alle apparenti leggi ferree della natura, della 
Storia e della stessa logica. 

Fanno parte di questo gruppo, dedicato all’indagine di aspetti poetici e filosofici 
di Leopardi, il saggio sulla satira leopardiana di Elena Saprykina, ‘‘La satira romantica 
di Giacomo Leopardi”, e quello di Joanna Ugniewska, “‘La poetica della memoria nei 
grandi idilli leopardiani’. I] primo, alquanto breve per l’importanza del tema, coglie 
bene il carattere proprio del riso ironico leopardiano: un misto di comico e di tragico, 
una forma di satira antica e moderna, riformata dalla visione tragica del poeta. Non si 
accenna all’umorismo pirandelliano, ma si dilucidano bene gli aspetti fondamentali 
della satira leopardiana con precisione e chiarezza. I] secondo, sebbene tratti d’un 
tema pil volte discusso dai leopardisti, offre una nuova prospettiva e interpretazione. 
Gia con il Dialogo di Torquato Tasso e del suo genio familiare, si afferma, Leopardi 
formulerebbe la sua teoria della poetica della memoria (a noi pare molto prima, dai 
primi canti); la rinuncia a tale poetica segnerebbe anche la fine della poesia come 
dinamica di ambivalenze affettive fra passato e presente. 

Sotto un terzo gruppo possiamo raccogliere un’altra serie di saggi nei quali si 
indaga la fortuna di Leopardi nel mondo o meglio in vari paesi europei e 
d’oltreoceano. Fra questi saggi spiccano quelli (due) di G. Singh — noto esperto 
dell’argomento — che traccia in maniera erudita e sagace la fortuna di Leopardi in 


472 Italian Bookshelf 


Inghilterra nell’ottocento e nella prima parte del novecento. Sania Roié ricostruisce 
magistralmente le componenti principali della fortuna di Leopardi in Jugoslavia. 
Infine, segnaliamo in questo gruppo, |’articolo assai istruttivo e interessante per 
chiunque (come me) non sappia nulla della presenza di Leopardi in Cecoslavacchia, 
dal titolo “Profilo di un’anima. Leopardi in Cecoslovacchia”, scritto da Mikila’ 
Pazitka. Articoli pregevoli per le precise informazioni e le equilibrate valutazioni. 

E per ultimo abbiamo conservato l’articolo di Clavio Ascari, “Leopardi negli 
Stati Uniti”, perché ci riguarda pit da vicino e possiamo esaminarlo con maggiore 
attenzione. L’articolo di Ascari apre la raccolta (il curatore ha organizzato il volume 
seguendo l’ordine alfabetico dei contributori), ma sotto ogni aspetto a noi sembra 
uno dei pit: deboli. Si delinea un quadro distorto e incolore a motivo di serie lacune e di 
un’angolazione parziale. Anzitutto va precisato che Ascari — per quanto ci risulta — 
non é uno specialista di Leopardi, e il suo saggio dimostra un’inadeguata conoscenza 
degli studi leopardiani negli Stati Uniti. L’analisi é ripartita in tre parti: traduzioni, 
libri (che sarebbero solo tre) e articoli. Come premessa alla sua disamina, Ascari cita 
alcune osservazioni opinabili di Carne-Ross (“The Strange Case of Leopardi”, New 
York Review of Books, 29 gennaio 1987), senza chiedersi quale autorita rappresenti 
Carne-Ross negli studi leopardiani. Di Cecchetti, d’altra parte, che noi riteniamo il 
maggiore leopardisia negli Stati Uniti, si cita solo la sua traduzione delle Operette. Si 
ignorano i suoi studi leopardiani pit importanti: Leopardi e Verga, Operette morali: 
tre studi, in cui si dimostra il carattere essenzialmente lirico delle Operette e il loro 
intimo rapporto con i Canti. Non solo Cecchetti @ rimpicciolito, ridotto a un 
traduttore, ma molti altri studiosi di Leopardi subiscono la stessa sorte. Del 
sottoscritto, traduttore dei Paralipomeni e autore di uno studio sull’Ultimo Leopardi: 
pensiero e poesia, appare solo una noterella sulla canzone Amore e morte, apparsa su 
Romance Notes dieci anni fa. Purtroppo l’articolo di Ascari riduce una sostanziale 
bibliografia critica a tre libri e alcuni nomi senza allargare o approfondire |’indagine, 
e cosi moltissimi studiosi sono dimenticati (per esempio Daniela Bini, che ha 
pubblicato un importante libro sulla formazione del pensiero leopardiano, e tanti altri 
valenti studiosi di Leopardi.) Ascari conclude con una nota positiva, malgrado il 
profetico pronostico pessimista di Carne-Ross, dichiarando d’aver tracciato “un 
panorama abbastanza incorraggiante”. A me, invece, pare che il saggio faccia poca 
giustizia agli studi leopardiani negli Stati Uniti, sottovalutando la portata storica e 
critica di tali studi e i meriti considerevoli di molti leopardisti. 

I saggi, ovviamente, andrebbero esaminati uno per uno e in profondita per 
definire cid che hanno di nuovo e di valido; noi abbiamo fatto una lettura rapsodica e 
parziale. 

Merito precipuo di Mario Santoro @ d’aver raccolto una vasta e articolata 
panoramica dell’ attuale presenza di Leopardi nel mondo. Studi di altri paesi (1’ America 
del Sud, per esempio, dove Leopardi é studiato), forse si potevano aggiungere, ma 
problemi di spazio e di strutturazione avrebbero reso il volume ancor pili ponderoso e 
farraginoso. Santoro, oltre a premettere al volume una introduzione panoramica 
illuminante, @ anche autore di un acuto saggio su “Il Leopardi di Toffanin”, in cui 
sostiene che la critica di Toffanin a Leopardi pecca di preconcetti estetici e 
metodologici. Toffanin voleva ritrovare nel poeta recanatese 1’influsso 
dell’illuminismo e del romanticismo. Un altro saggio su un rinomato leopardista di 
cui non abbiamo fatto menzione é quello dell’irlandese Janet Laffin, “Solmi as a 


Italian Bookshelf 473 


Critic of Leopardi”, molto pregevole e acuto. Essendo un critico non accademico — si 
osserva giustamente — ma poeta egli stesso, Solmi fa una critica intuitivo-creativa, 
rivolta ad analizzare l’unita dell’espressione, e a caratterizzare la poesia nella sua 
“oggettivita pura”. 

Malgrado il carattere antologico del volume e le manchevolezze dei contributi 
pid occasionali, questa ricca raccolta di saggi leopardiani apporta un notevole 
contributo allo studio di Leopardi e testimonia anche l’interesse della poesia 
leopardiana nel mondo. La presenza di tanti saggi intorno ad aspetti centrali 
dell’opera di Leopardi e della sua figura poliedrica attesta la statura mondiale ed 
emblematica del nostro poeta e ad un tempo |’attualita della sua poesia. 

Emesto G. Caserta 
Duke University 


Giorgio Barberi Squarotti. Manzoni: le delusioni della letteratura. 
Rovito: Marra Editore, 1988. Pp.244. 


A coronamento della vasta gamma di recenti interpretazioni manzoniane esce, nella 
collana Iride, diretta da Rocco Mario Morano, |’elegante volume dell’esimio studioso 
Giorgio Barberi Squarotti, Manzoni: le delusioni della letteratura. In nove densissimi 
saggi l’autore espone il legame tra letteratura e storia, come nucleo della meditazione 
poetica del Manzoni. Il critico avanza la progressiva consapevolezza del Manzoni 
che la letteratura come strumento di verita ha dei limiti. Prendendo in considerazione i 
diversi scritti (Fermo e Lucia, Promessi sposi, Storia della colonna infame, 
Carmagnola, Adelchi, La rivoluzione francese del 1798 e la rivoluzione italiana del 
1859) lo studioso mostra come la storiografia, per il Lombardo, sia il genere pit 
idoneo alla ragione fondamentale della scrittura, cioé all’indagine etica della vita e 
della storia. 

Il primo contributo, “La metaletteratura nel Fermo e Lucia”, mette acutamente in 
chiaro l’alta frequenza dei discorsi metaletterari nel primo romanzo manzoniano 
rispetto ai Promessi sposi. Ci troviamo dinanzi un Manzoni meditabondo che si 
ripiega continuamente sulla sua opera e sulle ragioni di essa, e che ha la coscienza del 
carattere nuovo della sua opera, in quanto romanzo di “gente meccanica”. La 
discussione sulla natura e sulla funzione della letteratura diventa parte integrale del 
romanzo che fa dell’opera manzoniana un “romanzo come saggio”. “Ritratto di 
un’anima frivola” @ lo studio di un personaggio che rimanda a una concezione frivola 
della vita: il conte Attilio. La premessa dello studio @ l’osservazione, nel Fermo e 
Lucia, che la letteratura non deve essere rivolta alla classe frivola la quale non chiede 
altro da essa che divertimento. Lo studioso osserva il contrasto fra le figure dei due 
cugini, da un lato il beffardo e cinico conte Attilio, dall’altro il taciturno e stizzoso 
don Rodrigo. Per il conte Attilio, nobile ozioso, senza interessi o impegni, basta il 
divertimento della scommessa, ma per don Rodrigo la scommessa diventa serio 
impegno d’onore. “Il male del potere” @ teso a mostrare come la figura 
dell’innominato, che incarna la lotta rivolta al potere, sia per il Manzoni occasione 
per indagare il male nella storia. Barberi Squarotti delinea la gestazione complessa 
dell’episodio dell’innominato che dal Fermo e Lucia ai Promessi sposi conosce 


474 Italian Bookshelf 


radicali trasformazioni e mutamenti. I] discorso @ centrale per arrivare alla 
conclusione manzoniana che la vittoria @ di chi, come Lucia, é senza potere, ed é nel 
potere degli altri. 

Segue l’esauriente analisi “Le morali dei Promessi sposi”, che propone 
un’originale rilettura delle “morali” della “fabula” narrata, quale discorso sul romanzo 
come genere. Le morali dell’anonimo, di don Abbondio, di Renzo e di Lucia sono 
dichiarazioni di poetica narrativa: il romanzo é trasgressione della normalita; deve 
proporre una lezione di vita; bisogna che sia la storia di un’acquisizione di 
conoscenze, che impieghi una lingua chiara e semplice. La letteratura deve racchiudere 
in sé una morale superiore al racconto dei fatti. 

B4rberi Squarotti scova anche nelle due tragedie manzoniane la funzione della 
letteratura. Il Manzoni — approfondisce lo studioso nel saggio “La storia 
impraticabile: le tragedie del Manzoni” — confuta le regole classicistiche della 
tragedia e elegge la tragedia come genere letterario “deputato a rimettere le cose a 
posto nell’ambito della storia” (125). Attenendosi a dati storici, un testo tragico pud 
dedicarsi alla verita dei fatti contro le malvagita, pud riconsacrare coloro che hanno 
patito ingiustizie. 

Nell’intervento “Manzoni o 1|’impotenza della letteratura” il silenzio letterario 
del Manzoni @ riconosciuto come testimonianza della coscienza dei limiti della 
letteratura. Barberi Squarotti esplora la sfiducia del Manzoni nella letteratura perché il 
privilegio del narratore, cioé l’invenzione, é in attrito con la verita positiva dei fatti, 
ed @ percid vana ed inutile. Ci troviamo dinanzi un Manzoni infinitamente lontano dai 
Promessi sposi, che ripensa la letteratura. Allo scrittore non é@ concesso alleggerire il 
dolore vero delle vittime della storia; e cosi il Manzoni scrittore d’invenzione cede al 
Manzoni storiografo. I] saggio che segue, “La storia come dolore”, continua 
l’argomento. Lo storiografo risponde all’esigenza del Manzoni di dire la verita e di 
rivendicare le insopportabili ingiustizie sofferte da uomini a causa degli uomini. Le 
sottili osservazioni sulla visione del Bergamasco nel Fermo e Lucia e nei Promessi 
sposi sono l’oggetto di “Bergamo e Venezia nell’opera manzoniana”. Nel saggio, 
Bergamo (e la repubblica veneziana), e Milano vengono paragonate: Bergamo é 
politicamente ed economicamente ordinata, e in essa il lavoro @ incoraggiato e 
protetto; Milano @ il luogo di ozio e di prepotenze che non incoraggia le attivita 
economiche. Mentre nel Fermo e Lucia le benemerenze socio-politiche di Bergamo 
sono la ragione principale del trasferimento della giovane coppia, nei Promessi sposi 
questo non é il caso. Questa é idealizzazione, che, secondo Manzoni, nella letteratura 
é un’ingiustizia alla verita delle cose. L’ultimo, ma non meno interessante 
intervento, “I] saggio sulla rivoluzione francese”, prende in esame lo scritto 
manzoniano che é stato oggetto di giudizi critici negativi, ma che secondo Barberi 
Squarotti é essenziale per capire la scelta del Manzoni per il genere storiografico. La 
scrittura storica deve avere un intento esemplare, ammonitorio, non deve essere 
scrittura vana, senza principi, ma é necessario che esamini e giudichi gli eventi con 
acutezza. E inutile sottolineare quanto questo volume possa contribuire e giovare a 
una pil penetrante comprensione della visione etica manzoniana della scrittura e della 
storiografia. 

Maria Iocco 
Erindale College, University of Toronto 


Italian Bookshelf 475 


Nuovi studi in onore di Mario Santoro. Ed. Maria Cristina Cafisse, 
Francesco D’Episcopo, Vincenzo Dolla, Tonia Fiorino, Lucia Miele. 
Napoli: Federico & Ardia, 1989. Pp. 157. 


Nel suo articolo sull’Eros di Giovanni Verga, “L’esperienza mondana in Eros suggello 
e identita di un secolo”, Gabriele Catalano propone una rivalutazione di questo 
romanzo giovanile che per troppo tempo é stato relegato fra le cose pil trite e meno 
significative della produzione verghiana. Sulla falsariga del Borgese egli vi riconosce 
invece uno sforzo creativo per nulla secondario o trascurabile. Lungi dal seguire uno 
schema prestabilito secondo la stanca vena romanzesca del momento, Eros rivela 
anzitutto un gusto per l’introspezione che richiama la prosa stendhaliana, mentre la 
dinamica della vicenda si svolge addirittura “in direzione antiromantica” (10). A 
prima vista il libro pud dare l’impressione di ricalcare le forme compositive del 
tradizionale Bildungsroman, ma in realta esso tende a trasformarsi “in un lucido 
trattato sulle passioni” (11). E questo diverso registro espressivo a innescare la 
metamorfosi narrativa che culminera ne / Malavoglia. Ma prima che la transizione si 
completi e si attui, Eros offre un quadro alquanto impietoso di una societa in piena 
crisi etico-sociale, una crisi a cui attingera morbosamente il decadentismo, ma che 
Verga smaschera e condanna: “Altro che morbide fantasticherie romantiche! C’é 
invece in Eros l’esperienza dell’uomo deluso, che congeda gli arcani mondi della 
giovinezza e scava impietoso sotto la superficie rosea di quell’emotivita sensuale che 
aveva inebriato tante generazioni di autori e lettori di romanzi” (20). In questo mondo 
in stato di avanzata decomposizione, la donna appare come segno di contraddizione e 
veicolo al tempo stesso di quell’ambiguitaé pseudo-sentimentale di cui 1’ipocrisia 
maschilista l’ha adornata: “Le donne sono le principali garanti della conservazione e 
del rispetto di questi diversi codici o cripto-codici di comportamento, gli uni 
esemplati speciosamente sulle leggi dell’onore e della credibilita pubblica, gli altri 
guidati dalle norme nascoste ma non meno tenaci della dissimulazione e 
dell’impassibilita, cioé dell’ipocrisia” (22). 

Nell’Europa del diciottesimo secolo vi fu un’abbondante fioritura di traduzioni, 
dovuta a un clima culturale fervido di idee e propizio alle iniziative. In ambito 
veneziano particolarmente interessante in tale senso fu 1’attivita di Gasparo Gozzi, 
che secondo Michele Cataudella (‘“‘“Gasparo Gozzi traduttore”), non si lascid mai 
invischiare nelle discussioni teoriche intorno al ruolo del traduttore o ai modi della 
traduzione, discussioni che sembravano appassionare gli intellettuali pit in vista 
dell’Italia del suo tempo. Lontano dunque da pregiudiziali di metodo, Gasparo Gozzi 
traduttore appare oggi ai nostri occhi come un abile “artigiano” (25) guidato nelle sue 
scelte linguistiche e stilistiche unicamente da un pragmatico senso comune. Tuttavia, 
anche se non c’é in lui l’esigenza di affidarsi a uno schema operativo teorico, Gasparo 
Gozzi stabilisce con la sua attivita di traduttore “come un raccordo, alla lontana, con 
la renovatio e con |’uso della storia quale era dato dal Muratori” (29) come sembra 
dimostrare la sua traduzione dell’Esopo di Boursault. E parallelamente non gli 
interessava tanto di travasare la cultura del testo originale nella sua, quanto di 
utilizzare i materiali a sua disposizione per arricchire la gamma del suo “discorso 
veneziano” (31) secondo un programma di chiara ispirazione pedagogica. 


476 Italian Bookshelf 


La compresenza di realta e fantasia nell’opera di Domenico Rea costituisce il 
tema dell’articolo di Carmine Di Biase (“Realta e poesia in Domenico Rea”), il quale 
vede nell’alternarsi di quei due elementi non gia una dicotomia, ma un modo unico di 
fare poesia, di rendersi “cantore” (35) di quella materia cosi multiforme e 
contradditoria che @ Napoli, “capacita di interpretare la realta di Napoli nel suo 
perenne dualismo di disfacimento e risurrezione, di sogno e di ragione” (37). L’estro 
fantasioso di Domenico Rea non evita, anzi accoglie la cruda miseria dei “bassi”, cosi 
come l’esperienza delle situazioni pit umilianti e brutali non toglie |’anelito al vivere 
felice: ‘Una vita d’inferno, che non esclude 1’attaccamento alla gioia del vivere” (39). 

L’articolo di Giuseppe Germano, “Il De aspiratione di Giovanni Pontano nel 
codice W. MS. 108-III della Chester Library di Dublino”, ci fornisce una grande 
dovizia di informazioni sul De aspiratione di Giovanni Pontano nel codice W. Ms. 
108-III della Chester Beatty Library. 

Ascanio Pignatelli, ci dice Mario Gabriele Giordano (“Il petrarchismo 
manieristico di Ascanio Pignatelli”), dopo aver goduto di una certa rinomanza nei 
secoli precedenti, cadde nell’oblio quasi totale nell’Ottocento, benché il suo ruolo 
fosse stato tutt’altro che secondario nello stuolo dei seguaci del Petrarca. Le sue Rime, 
per quanto improntate al consacrato modello petrarchesco, presentano alcune 
caratteristiche singolari che ne fanno un documento esemplare di quel periodo che 
vide l’attenuarsi e lo spegnersi della civilta tardo-rinascimentale e il profilarsi della 
nuova sensibilita barocca con le sue ardite sperimentazioni. Tanto per cominciare “la 
sua esperienza si matura, in termini di cultura e di umanita, tra due poli assai 
caratterizzati, quello di Napoli e quello di Padova” (60). Dall’ambiente veneto il 
Pignatelli trasse una forte inclinazione per le “suggestioni platonizzanti” (60) mentre 
da quello napoletano assorbi l’anelito ad allontanarsi dalla “regolarita” del 
Cinquecento verso una maniera pili vistosa e risonante. Dal modello petrarchesco egli 
derivé soprattutto il senso della disciplina e il gusto degli ozi letterari, ma in essi 
infuse “un timbro nuovo, una nuova sensibilita, una nuova situazione umana e 
culturale” manifestando una “disposizione ad accogliere con una certa ampiezza 
elementi realistici, cronachistici e comunque non ‘canonici’ della realta che attestano 
l’immediatezza del vissuto e conferiscono alla sua poesia il pregio della vivacita, 
della freschezza e della sincerita” (66). 

Lucia Gualdo Rosa (“Trasfigurazione poetica e realta politica nel poemetto 
otrantino di Probo Mariani”) prende in esame un poemetto in latino di Probo Mariani 
sulla guerra otrantina che non interessa tanto perché pud permetterci, almeno in 
teoria, di gettare luce su reali avvenimenti storici, ma piuttosto perché ci rivela “il 
sorgere dei diversi miti” (82) legati a quegli avvenimenti. Il poemetto ha un tono 
prevalentemente encomiastico nei riguardi di Alfonso d’Aragona, e fa leva sui 
sentimenti religiosi del lettore, rivelando al di 1a della trama del racconto che |’autore, 
canonico della cattedrale di Sulmona e cultore di studi classici, si faceva pil o meno 
consapevolmente portavoce “di un’epoca che sempre pill era portata a ripensare 
criticamente e cristianamente la grande ubriacatura paganeggiante dell’umanesimo” 
(88). 

La complessa fenomenologia dell’emigrazione in America quale appare nelle 
testimonianze letterarie costituisce l’argomento dell’articolo di Sebastiano Martelli: 
“Appunti su emigrazione e America nella letteratura meridionale”. Oltre al celebre 
racconto Dagli Appennini alle Ande, che E. Bertone ha definito “la pid: straordinaria 





Italian Bookshelf 477 


short novel ottocentesca sull’emigrazione” (95), il nome di De Amicis @ legato a una 
significativa raccolta di prose, Jn America, pubblicata nel 1897, nelle quali il 
Martelli ravvisa, d’accordo con Bertone, “toni ‘desolati e funebri’, di ‘un’atmosfera 
lugubre e mortuaria’ nelle raffigurazioni degli emigranti, della partenza e del viaggio . 
. . che vanno collegati anche al diffuso ‘culto dei morti’ nella letteratura e nell’ arte tra 
Otto e Novecento” (96). 

Un piccolo capolavoro della letteratura dell’emigrazione @ la poesia pascoliana 
Italy, che sembra condensare in sé i temi pit’ appariscenti e le sfumature pit nascoste 
della condizione dell’emigrante, “il confronto tra due civilta, 1’una che muore, 1’altra 
del futuro; il tema decadente citta-campagna, civilté urbano-industriale e civilta della 
campagna; la citta, la civilté americana, l’emigrazione come malattia, la campagna e 
la civilta contadina come luogo salvifico, di guarigione” (96-97). 

Anche Pirandello si cimentd con il tema dell’emigrazione nella novella L’altro 
figlio, la cui atmosfera presenta caratteri analoghi a quelli gia ricordati in De Amicis: 
l’incombere del lutto e della morte, un senso diffuso di perdita e di tragico 
spaesamento. Un altro testo menzionato @ il romanzo Emigranti del calabrese 
Francesco Perri, apparso nel 1928. Come chiave per |’interpretazione di questo tipo 
di letteratura il Martelli propone lo studio etnologico di Emesto De Martino, Morte e 
pianto rituale, che individua le componenti emotive, religiose e sociali del trauma 
psicologico causato dall’emigrazione: “le lacerazioni dell’emigrazione creano uno 
stato di angoscia, di fissita nel dolore perché esse fanno saltare tutti gli argini 
difensivi individuali e comunitari; insomma se l’emigrazione ‘é equivalente critico 
della morte’, essa é una morte non domesticata, violenta. . . . ‘la cultura originaria 
dell’emigrato subisce un assalto, una ferita profonda’” (99). L’articolo si conclude 
con un cenno ad altri tre romanzi, Jl fondo del sacco dello svizzero Plinio Martini e 
Peccato originale e Una posizione sociale di Giose Rimanelli. 

Elena Patroni Griffi, in “Un documento monastico sui mercanti senesi di Napoli 
(1482-1483)”, prende in esame un breve documento contenuto in due fogli in parte 
autografi di un mercante senese, Lorenzo Boninsegna. I] documento apre uno 
spiraglio, per quanto minimo, sui rapporti fra il monastero dei Ss. Severino e Sosio 
in Napoli e la citta di Siena. 

L’articolo di Giorgio Petrocchi, “Notturni della Liberata”, @ un dettagliato 
catalogo ragionato volto a “documentare l’ampiezza dello spettro figurativo . . . dei 
notturni della Liberata, lunari o illuni, stellati od oscuri, amorosi o guerreschi, 
limpidi o angosciati, celestiali o demoniaci, solitari o teatrali, stanti nel sonno o 
itineranti, immobili o mossi dal vento, apportatori di vita o latori di morte, 
silenziosi 0 spezzati dal rumore delle armi” (120). 

Mentre la poesia di Salvatore Di Giacomo, pur traendo ispirazione dall’ambiente 
popolare, seppe elevarsi ad una sua dignita colta e raffinata, quella di Ferdinando 
Russo rimase ancorata ad una visione plebea che non aspird mai ad emulare i modelli 
della tradizione letteraria pit alta. E questo il punto di partenza dell’analisi di Luigi 
Reina: “Napoletanita fin de siécle. Patuti, scugnizzi e camorristi nella poesia di 
Ferdinando Russo”. I] volto complesso e paradossale di Napoli appare con evidenza 
espressionistica nella poesia di Ferdinando Russo attraverso una vasta gamma di 
situazioni, personaggi e atteggiamenti. 

Giorgio Santangelo (“Savarese e Lanza: convergenze e divergenze”) mette a 
confronto due scrittori siciliani, Savarese e Lanza, i quali hanno in comune |’amore 


478 Italian Bookshelf 


per la cultura della loro terra. Nonostante Savarese appaia distante dalla tradizione 
realistica, dei due egli @ il pid prossimo al Verga anche quando teorizza sul futuro del 
romanzo: “‘I] nuovo romanzo — egli scrive — come opera d’arte vera e compiuta, 
nascera dagli aborti della letteratura narrativa di quest’ultimo periodo e non gia, come 
molti credono, da quei tentativi riconosciuti validi e ben riusciti, in base a criteri 
astratti, a somiglianze e con riferimenti non italiani e percid non vitali . . .’” (135). 
Egli inoltre mostra “un profondo senso religioso della vita” (136) e della 
trascendenza che sono del tutto assenti nell’opera del Lanza, il quale vive l’esempio 
del Verga ‘‘sul piano esclusivamente stilistico” (139), mentre il suo vero “precedente” 
(come scriveva Leonardo Sciascia), era Giacomo Meli. Savarese e Lanza si 
muovevano in direzioni diverse, uno sulla via del tragico, l’altro sulla scia del 
comico, ma qualcosa li accomunava: “i due sodali . . . hanno lasciato alle nuove 
generazioni un messaggio appassionato, che la immemore Italia ha solo in parte 
recepito: sul piano dell’arte e dello stile, una lezione di estrema purezza e musicalita, 
quali pochissimi altri scrittori del Novecento hanno saputo attingere; sul piano dei 
valori umani un insegnamento imperituro” (143) 

Nell’ultimo articolo del volumetto (“Alle origini dell’ Umanesimo galateano”), 
Francesco Tateo individua nel sodalizio del Galateo e di Ermolao Barbaro il maturarsi 
di un profondo sentimento etico che cercando di restituire alla letteratura un certo 
grado di autenticita, prelude paradossalmente sia al ciceronianesimo, sia alla grande 
rivoluzione scientifica: “Impostazione umanistica significa insieme una scelta 
culturale e una scelta morale, rifiuto della scienza fine a se stessa, 0 mossa da mere 
finalita professionali, e rifiuto della maniera ermetica dell’esposizione, rivalutazione 
dei classici della scienza, abbandonati per inseguire gli ambiti specialistici, i codici 
ristretti, le norme confuse delle arti. 

Sembrerebbe strano, ma fu proprio questa impostazione umanistica a promuovere 
la sperimentazione scientifica, come sara nella fase ben pit matura del Galilei: sara 
appunto uno scienziato umanista a richiamare 1’attenzione sulla esperienza, contro 
l’aristotelismo deduttivo e fisso ai principi statutari delle arti, perché la critica dei 
testi rimanda all’esperienza delle cose e finisce col realizzare, in senso perfino 
divergente dal retoricismo umanistico propriamente detto, la convergenza fra 
sapienza ed eloquenza” (149-50). 

Clavio Ascari 
Mary Washington College 


Raymond Petrillo. Itinerario del primo Verga: 1864-1874. Catania: 
Biblioteca della fondazione Verga, 1987. Pp. 242. 


Il Petrillo analizza ed approfondisce elementi di continuita atti a farci vedere in Nedda 
un logico punto d’arrivo dell’itinerario giovanile verghiano. Il volume comprende 
una “Introduzione”, tre capitoli (suddivisi in nove parti), una “Bibliografia” ed un 
“Sommario”. Per i romanzi si cita dalla edizione 1970 degli Oscar Mondadori, per 
Nedda dall’edizione delle Opere della Ricciardi 1955. 

Il critico stabilisce subito la linea critica e lo scopo della sua ricerca: studiare lo 
sviluppo della tecnica narrativa giovanile verghiana su spunti di Luigi Pirandello 


Italian Bookshelf 479 


(“personaggio-viaggiatore siciliano” tra “covo protettivo” e attrazione-paura del 
“mondo aperto”), Giovanni Cecchetti (liricismo poetico delle immagini ricorrenti), e 
Pieter De Meijer (contrasto tra vita “tranquilla” del focolare domestico e vita 
“espansiva’, sempre fatale). I due “motivi dominanti” da studiare sono percid: il 
“dinamismo ambientale” e la “‘carica metaforica’” (8). 

Nel romanzo Una peccatrice, i due motivi sono ancora nella “fase iperbolica” 
(21). La trama del romanzo si profila come una rinarrazione-ricerca che ritraccia le 
tappe di un amore straordinario, animando i luoghi geografici (“covo” e “‘aperto”) e 
creando, per mezzo di metafore ricorrenti, rapporti complessi tra i personaggi (30). 
Le metafore ricorrenti (o “sigle”) sono di tipo “fisiologico”. Esse servono tanto a 
caratterizzare i personaggi nei due ambienti, quanto a compenetrare gli stessi 
ambienti (“testolina” di Narcisa, “volto energico di Pietro, ecc. . . .). Alcune sigle, 
quali le descrizioni della mano femminile, del sapersi appoggiare e del pallore, 
vengono mescolate. Esse originano nel personaggio materno e poi vengono estese e 
variate nei protagonisti, descrivendo cosi il dramma dei tre personaggi in ambedue gli 
ambienti (70). La trama dimostra anche il carattere ambivalente del protagonista nei 
due ambienti, nessuno dei quali pud placare il suo scontento. Infatti, 1’aspirazione al 
possesso di Narcisa nasce in lui nel “covo”, mentre il desiderio di un ritorno 
all’ambiente protettivo nasce dal malessere provato nella vita dell’ambiente “aperto” 
(32). Il Verga quindi a questo punto, nel condannare 1’esperienza pericolosa di 
Brusio, non intende né ironizzare né idealizzare la vita normale (59). 

Da Eva il Petrillo passa a Storia di una capinera, costruendo paralleli illuminanti 
tra Verga emigrato a Firenze e la protagonista del romanzo. Egli mette in rilievo 
anche le nuove caratteristche che hanno fatto pensare a un nuovo orientamento 
atipico del Verga (83). Tuttavia, fa notare il critico, il romanzo riprende dalla 
Peccatrice la componente antinomica che si stabilisce sin dall’introduzione: come la 
capinera Maria finisce sempre col rinchiudersi in un “angolo” circoscritto, guardando 
dalla onnipresente finestra la vita allegra intorno a sé ed i suoi custodi, questi ultimi 
vengono definiti “innocenti carnefici”, con un’ambivalenza che preclude ogni 
ribellione (112). Anche questa protagonista dimostra percid un carattere ambivalente, 
che si riflette anche qui nella trama e nelle sigle. Le sigle non sono pit di carattere 
fisiologico, ma ambientale: spazio circoscritto della cameretta o della cella 
conventuale, pareti domestiche o muri conventuali, abbracci fraterni come bisogno di 
sentirsi men soli, ecc. Come Brusio, Maria vede ciascuno dei due ambienti solo nei 
suoi rapporti con 1’altro, posponendo all’infinito il suo godimento. Ella dal 
convento-“covo” porta con sé una predisposizione all’attrattiva del mondo aperto; 
mentre nell’aperto le condizioni diventano intollerabili e condizionano il richiamo 
delle “buone pareti” del convento. Di conseguenza, nessuno dei due ambienti riesce a 
placare il dissidio in Maria (115). 

Nel terzo capitolo il Petrillo analizza le tre opere della prima fase milanese: Eva, 
Tigre reale, e Nedda. In quest’ultima i due “motivi dominanti” raggiungono “una 
sintesi espressiva” (156), particolarmente nelle due immagini dell’introduzione: il 
“focolare domestico” e il “pensiero vagabondo” (che si collega ai viaggi mentali tra 
“covo” e “aperto” dello scrittore e dei suoi personaggi giovanili). Nell’introduzione a 
Nedda il Verga rivelerebbe anche le fasi della sua conquista del simbolo del “focolare”’, 
contrapponendo il suo modo di vederlo nel passato a quello del presente (172). In Eva 
1’immagine é ancora retorica (fuoco traditore-passione) e incorniciata su uno sfondo 


480 Italian Bookshelf 


fiorentino sempre invernale e “‘freddo” (194). Del resto, osserva il critico, la duplicita 
del romanzo non permette una piena compenetrazione né delle sigle (le stesse della 
Peccatrice) né degli ambienti, poiché la Sicilia rimane il luogo troppo ideale dei cuori 
puri (157). Tigre reale invece risolverebbe in parte la questione della geografia 
narrativa: 1’itinerario mentale di Giorgio tra le varie localita ne esprime il dramma, 
che scaturisce dal suo animo piuttosto che dai contrasti tra gli ambienti o tra moglie e 
amante. Inoltre 1’immagine del “‘focolare”, che appare neila sua prima parte ancora 
sullo sfondo fiorentino invernale, nella seconda parte viene rimpiazzato dalla realta 
domestica, di cui si scopre esser stato la metafora (220). La stessa Sicilia non @ pit 
troppo ideale, ma pronta a divenire il luogo pit! concreto che é in Nedda. 

Nedda, a sua volta, rassomiglia alle altre opere giovanili come “storia di un 
personaggio che si muove sempre da un luogo ad un altro” (174). Tuttavia qui il 
“dinamismo ambientale” e la ‘“carica metaforica” raggiungono la sintesi 
nell’immagine del “‘focolare” che diventa simbolo di protezione-calore (cioé “covo" 
contro il freddo, la tempesta e le intemperie del “mondo aperto”. Su questo contrasto, 
calore (anche umano) e freddo, viene strutturata la novella. 

Ci siamo dovuti per necessita limitare alla linea principale di questo lavoro che é 
molto elaborato nei suoi dettagli: analisi delle metafore, degli ambienti, dei 
personaggi principali e secondari, numerosi riferimenti all’epistolario verghiano per 
trarne spunti autobiografici molto illuminanti. Senza dubbio il Petrillo riesce a 
tracciare sui motivi degli ambienti e delle sigle la pit. convincente linea di continuita 
tra il Verga giovanile ed il Verga verista che sia stata tentata. Inoltre il Petrillo 
approfondisce questa linea, dimostrando il progresso dello scrittore nelle varie fasi di 
questo continuum evolutivo. La stessa materia ci sembra ben organizzata e i difetti 
sono pochi e secondari (un periodo in cui soggetto e verbo vengono separati da una 
lunga citazione, un lapsus nel datare la pubblicazione di Nedda a p. 161). L’unico 
punto debole 1’abbiamo trovato nella sua analisi di Storia di una capinera. L’analisi é 
ben approfondita; ma il Petrillo, sforzandosi di collegare quest’opera alla precedente 
sui termini del “covo”, perde di vista 1’mportanza della “famiglia” (cioé del 
“significato” per il “significante”). Cosi, nella prima lettera di Maria (163), il 
Petrillo capovolge 1’ordine testuale tra 1’abbraccio paterno ed il pensiero alla madre, 
interpretando: “Maria lo riceve pensando invece alla madre” (132), creando un 
contrasto tra i due genitori. Si tratta qui di un passo importante in cui Maria 
nell’intero paragrafo discute 1l’insostituibilita della famiglia naturale, 
contrapponendo all’amore dei genitori veri le “‘altre madri” del convento (e poco dopo 
anche la matrigna). L’abbraccio paterno (in cui Maria ci vede un segno dell’“‘esser 
cosi amati”, mentre in convento era proibito per le possibili implicazioni sessuali, 
diventa percid per lei prova tangibile d’un amore di cui era stata sempre privata: 
1’amore familiare. Quando anche questa prova tangibile d’amore alla fine scompare, 
Maria, impedita d’abbracciare i familiari, non vede che fantasmi e spiriti. 
Ironicamente questo personaggio femminile che la critica, a eccezione del Petrillo, 
non ha saputo inquadrare nell’opera verghiana, @ precursore di Nedda e Rosso 
Malpelo. Maria si crede una donna al di sotto di tutte le altre e non aspira che a 
diventare come le altre. Come Nedda, ella crede di meritare i maltrattamenti ingiusti e 
come Nedda persegue inutilmente |’ideale d’un “covo-famiglia” anche umile, come la 
casetta e la famigliuola della castalda. La sua situazione familiare verra ripresa in 
“Rosso Malpelo”. I] padre debole, ma pieno d’amore e di carezze, la madre e la sorella 


Italian Bookshelf 481 


che ricordano la matrigna e Giuditta diventate peggiori. In “Rosso Malpelo” verra 
ripreso anche il simbolo del “covo-prigione”, a cui i protagonisti si riferiscono in 
modo analogo e ambivalente: “a noi, poveri cuori” diventa “per noi che siamo fatti 
per vivere sotterra”, parole rivolte ironicamente a un ex-educanda che non tornera in 
convento e ad un fanciullo “avvezzo a lavorare sui tetti” (Gli Oscar 180, Ricciardi 
170). Come si pud vedere, le implicazioni del lavoro del Petrillo vanno pit in 14 di 
quanto si creda e, nonostante qualche piccola debolezza, siamo convinti che sia 
1’unico lavoro che abbia collegato i “due Verga” in maniera convincente. 
Frank Ignazio Caldarone 
Chicago, Il. 


Dante Della Terza. Letteratura e critica tra Otto e Novecento: 
itinerari di ricezione. Cosenza: Edizioni Periferia, 1989. Pp. 301. 


Il conoscitore dell'attivita saggistica di Dante Della Terza non restera sorpreso 
dinanzi ad una scelta tematica che si snoda lungo il duplice binario di letteratura e 
critica. Come per i precedenti Forma e memoria (Roma: Bulzoni, 1979) e Tradizione 
ed esegesi (Padova: Liviana, 1987), il titolo diventa espressione della coerenza 
concettuale che sostanzia ed unifica l'apparente eterogeneita degli argomenti trattati. 

Il volume raccoglie diciassette saggi di storia letteraria tardo ottocentesca e 
novecentesca nati “extra moenia” ed “intra moenia”, gia apparsi presso riviste 
specializzate o presentati in occasione di convegni tenutisi in Italia o in America. 
Esso segna cosi un'altra tappa del ricco percorso esistenziale ed intellettuale 
dell’autore che nel precedente Da Vienna a Baltimora. La diaspora degli intellettuali 
europei negli Stati Uniti d’America (Roma: Editori Riuniti, 1987) era stato illuminato 
dagli incontri con i protagonisti della storia di un’epoca quali Leo Spitzer, Erich 
Auerbach, Renato Poggioli, Erwin Panofsky ed altri ancora. 

Come Della Terza precisa nella “Presentazione”, gli argomenti trattati nel corso 
del libro sono riconducibili a tre nuclei genetici remoti: “la tematica culturale 
meridionalistica . . . l’espansione della metodologia critica del Croce . . . il problema 
della ricezione della cultura italiana moderna e contemporanea in paesi anglofoni, 
francofoni o germanofoni” (8). 

Del primo gruppo fanno parte i cinque saggi iniziali sull’immagine di Mazzini 
nella letteratura del Risorgimento, sui rapporti tra De Sanctis e il verismo, 
sull’itinerario culturale di Vittorio Imbriani, su Pirandello e la riflessione 
sull’umorismo ed il suo passaggio dalla novella al teatro. 

Al secondo nucleo tematico si possono ricondurre i saggi dedicati all’ipotesi 
politico-letteraria di “Lacerba”, al “Frontespizio”, all’itinerario intellettuale di Luigi 
Russo idealista inquieto, alla dialettica partecipazione di Mario Fubini all’estetica 
crociana, al significato del secondo momento napoletano della rivista “Il Baretti”, a 
Eugenio Garin critico della cultura italiana contemporanea. 

Infine, al terzo problema della ricezione della cultura italiana all’estero, 
collegato a quello della traduzione, sono dedicati i saggi finali sulle modalita di 
penetrazione in culture straniere delle opere di Giacomo Leopardi e Grazia Deledda. 

Il cuore teorico del volume é rappresentato dai saggi ricordati all’inizio in quanto 


482 Italian Bookshelf 


tutti collegati ad un’unica opzione remota dell’autore: ]’interesse per la storia 
culturale del Novecento italiano a partire dal punto di riferimento storico politico e 
geografico del 1870, con la proclamazione di Roma a capitale d'Italia. Esemplare in 
questo senso mi pare il saggio dedicato a “Il verismo e la cultura meridionale: De 
Sanctis, Capuana, Verga”, in cui la diffidenza di De Sanctis verso le espressioni 
italiane del naturalismo — di cui tuttavia aveva mostrato di cogliere tutta la portata 
letteraria e sociale nei due saggi su Zola del ’78 e del *79 — viene analizzata in 
rapporto al distacco generazionale che lo separa da Verga e Capuana. Mentre 
nell’itinerario di formazione di De Sanctis il 1870 é “se non la conclusione certo una 
tappa decisiva raggiunta a seguito di una battaglia sostenuta per la formazione di una 
coscienza interregionale e di una cultura nazionale nella quale tutti debbano 
riconoscersi” (47), per Verga e Capuana questa data rappresenta il bisogno 
insopprimibile di ampliare i propri orizzonti culturali in direzione europea avendo 
come nuovi punti di riferimento Firenze e soprattutto Milano. Ma |’assorbimento 
degli umori europei condurra entrambi ad un ritorno minimalistico alle origini, che 
riflette chiaramente la frammentarieta affiorante nella recente unita italiana. E in 
questo paradosso del verismo italiano che affonda le radici la reazione negativa di un 
intellettuale meridionale come il De Sanctis, il quale in nome di impellenti priorita 
unitarie aveva accantonato le istanze della propria origine regionale. 

La finezza d’auscultazione con cui il critico allievo di Luigi Russo e Giorgio 
Pasquali sa accostare il testo letterario ravviva spesso questi contributi di metacritica, 
come nelle osservazioni sulla rappresentazione di Mazzini nel Cuore di Edmondo De 
Amicis e nel Lorenzo Benoni di Giovanni Ruffini, oppure nell’indagine sulla tecnica 
gia espressionista del primo Pirandello “naturalista” ne L’esclusa, o sul 
“congelamento” (86) dei personaggi operato ne / vecchi e i giovani letti alla luce del 
saggio pirandelliano sull’umorismo. La vexata quaestio del polimorfismo dell’ arte 
pirandelliana e del passaggio tardo dalla novella al teatro @ poi sviluppata nel saggio 
successivo per approdare ad un chiaro riconoscimento dell’ autonomia tra le due forme 
narrative pirandelliane. 

Ancora un esempio di analisi formale delle strutture portanti del discorso 
letterario @ costituito dal denso intervento su Gadda, accanto a Pasolini narratore “‘ex- 
lege” della cultura italiana novecentesca, esaminato da Della Terza al fine di 
sottolineare l’ambivalenza dell’opera di Gadda verso il lettore, che “‘o si risolve e 
tutta si esaurisce nel frammento o, divenuta incontenibile per il moltiplicarsi delle 
sue linee d’espansione, travalica l’ambito della narrazione e si perde nel pathos 
confuso della vita” (228). 

Il saggio su Pasolini rappresenta poi un’interessante applicazione di quei “criteri 
amplificativi rispetto alle sedimentazioni locali degli eventi studiati” (8) che, come 
l’autore precisa nella premessa, lo hanno spesso guidato nelle sue scelte tematiche. 
Della Terza riesce a ridare spessore all’incontro spesso sminuito e dimenticato di 
Pasolini con la Weltkultur, seguendone il percorso attraverso 1’amicizia con Roberto 
Longhi, lo studio del Pascoli, la scelta di Contini come maestro, la frequentazione 
critica di Spitzer e Auerbach, e soprattutto la militanza marxista. 

Criteri “riduttivi” sono invece applicati dall’autore nei due saggi dedicati 
all’opera di Mario Puccini, per poter rilevare l’inconfondibile peculiarita del Soldato 
Cola rispetto ai piti noti esempi del romanzo di guerra nelle sue accezioni francesi ed 
austro-tedesche. 


Italian Bookshelf 483 


All’interesse di Della Terza per la storia culturale del Novecento italiano, 
esplorata nei saggi centrali del volume sulla rete di diffusione del crocianesimo nei 
suoi problematici contatti con il futurismo ed il modernismo, s’intreccia 
inscindibilmente quello per la ricezione. Ricezione intesa sia come influsso 
esercitato da autori fondamentali della nostra letteratura, come Leopardi, su altre 
culture, sia come modalita di riappropriazione di figure storiche centrali, come 
Mazzini, da parte della societa e della cultura italiana di fine Ottocento. II saggio 
iniziale su “L’eroe scomodo e la sua ombra. L’immagine di Mazzini e la Letteratura del 
Risorgimento”, e quello su “Leopardi negli Stati Uniti d’America”, posto con quello 
deleddiano a conclusione della raccolta, costituiscono forse i migliori esempi di quel 
tratto caratteristico della scrittura dell’autore, che sostanzia il discorso critico con 
dati sempre interessanti di precisione erudita per offrire al lettore nuove prospettive di 
riflessione e d’indagine. 

L’ultimo libro di Della Terza aggiunge dunque uno stimolante capitolo di cultura 
contemporanea ad i suoi precedenti studi sulla letteratura del passato, ed illustra le sue 
convinzioni sul compito dell’interprete di secondo grado che sa offrire un saggio 
della propria consistenza critica attraverso la seria e attenta ricostruzione della 
filigrana del pensiero altrui. Perché, per concludere con una metafora spitzeriana cara 
al Della Terza critico e docente, ‘Dieu est dans les détails.” 

Margherita Heyer-Caput 
Harvard University 


Ernesto Paolozzi. Vicende dell’estetica tra vecchio e nuovo 
positivismo. Napoli: Loffredo, 1989. Pp. 158. 


With his usual critical acumen, amply displayed in his previous book, / problemi 
dell’ estetica italiana (from the end of World War II to 1985), Emesto Paolozzi has 
undertaken, in the present volume, to explore the vicissitudes of esthetics amidst “the 
old and the new positivism.” While his critical-historical inquiry follows his 
idealistic leanings, which are noticeable in his earlier work, his treatment of the 
subject here offers a well-balanced and objective picture of the esthetic and 
philosophical situation. Although the underlying thought running through the book 
is indicative of a negative view of positivism and neo-positivism in relation to 
esthetics, he cannot totally dismiss some viable aspects which, he cautiously 
suggests, should be incorporated into our culture as valid acquisitions. The book is 
meant to cover what he calls “the double crisis of positivism from the beginning of 
the century to the present” (9). But it exceeds these limits through a general overview 
carrying the reader as far back as the seventeenth century, and thus providing some of 
the modem antecedents to the predicament of esthetics in our times. 

Paolozzi’s overriding concern is the decline of interest in art theory in our 
positivistic society. The book begins, in fact, with the observation that in our 
epoch, and in particular in the last twenty years, contrary to earlier periods, esthetic 
research has lost speculative vigor and originality, deteriorating not only 
qualitatively, but also quantitatively. This situation, according to Paolozzi, has 
brought about a depression in the field of literature, poetry, and the fine arts, which 


484 Italian Bookshelf 


are all undergoing a profound crisis. Under the influence of positivism, art theory has 
been scientized and industrialized. It has been reduced to mere technique, divested of 
any cognitive and philosophical meaning. 

Our age, Paolozzi opines, is characterized on the one hand by scientism, on the 
other by irrationalism or activism; on the practical level, furthermore, this conflict is 
translated into moral and political decay. Philosophy, which should be the cn..ical 
conscience of the present situation, has lost its speculative tension and vitality, thus 
leading to a dangerous conformism and/or indifference — a sign of a cynical and 
utilitarian society, bereft of any sense of real value and on the verge of falling prey to 
tyranny. Paolozzi proposes to explain the terms of the problem, from the viewpoint 
of esthetic theory, “through the analysis of the major philosophers and the most 
important currents of thought” (9). The importance attributed to esthetic research is 
one of the essential points of the book. Esthetics seems to be the best instrument not 
only to understand literature and criticism, but also history and society, as well as 
ideological conflicts. “Through the recapture of the artistic dimension,” the author 
argues, “and the resumption of the philosophy of art in accordance with rigorous 
philosophical principles, we have identified an essential moment in the search for a 
new moral and philosophical balance, capable of taking a critical stand vis-a-vis our 
epoch, but also capable of grasping the positive aspects that scientific progress and 
liberal democracies have achieved” (9). Through the analysis of artistic expression, 
one is able to understand the meaning of human history. 

The work is not limited to explaining the various problems of esthetics alone; it 
dwells also on the intricate background against which esthetic theory unfolds. This 
leads to the examination of a broad spectrum of conflicting philosophical positions 
bearing on the theory of art. Paolozzi’s attempt to embrace a vast cultural panorama 
in a brief compass is carried out remarkably well; as a result, this is a study not only 
of esthetic theory, but also of philosophical culture, embracing, in its main aspects, 
almost the entire European scene. 

The book comprises seven chapters and an appendix: I. “Positivism”; II. “De 
Sanctis between Romanticism and Positivism”; III. “The Reaction to Positivism”; 
IV. “Between Idealism and Realism: Croce’s Esthetics”; V. Art in the World of 
Technique: Heidegger”; VI. “The Return of Positivism and its Crisis”; VII. For a New 
Humanism.” The appendix, “Aporias of Italian Esthetics after Croce,” touches upon 
problems already discussed by Paolozzi in his previous work, but proving here once 
again the disarray of the philosophy of art in the second half of our century. After 
Croce, esthetics followed neo-positivistic trends; it splintered into various schools 
and achieved no relevant theoretical results. It abandoned the fundamental problem of 
art, that is, its cognitive and philosophical character, and exhausted itself in 
problems of artistic techniques, language analysis, structures, stylistics, etc. and, to 
some extent, trivialized itself. The end-result was a proliferation of empiricistic 
esthetics, motivated by social and political ideologies and unconcerned with the 
philosophical principles of art. 

The chapter on positivism, with which the book begins, is a broad survey of the 
main trends in philosophical thought, highlighting the origins and ramifications of 
positivistic doctrine in relation to esthetics. Even though positivism has existed 
since time immemorial alongside or in competition with idealism, both in 
philosophy and in art theory, it has its roots, as a recognized doctrine, in the 


Italian Bookshelf 485 


eighteenth century. It developed and acquired status in the nineteenth, and dominated 
the second half of that century, until it met, around the turn of the century, with 
strong opposition from subjectivistic trends (Bergson appears as the anti-positivist 
par excellence), and was virtually silenced during the first half of this century by a 
revival of idealistic philosophy. It re-emerged immediately after World War II under 
various labels and in more pervasive forms — phenomenology, sociology, 
linguistics, psychoanalysis, logical positivism, analytical philosophy, etc. — and 
is dominant in our times. All these labels stand for an anti-metaphysical position 
whose only concern is the study of facts in their objectivity. 

Positivism, by its own nature, is a philosophy of the particular, lacking an all- 
encompassing vision of reality. More than a philosophy, it is a scientific 
methodology, which conceives of art in scientific terms, viewing artistic creation as 
the result of a rational process subject to verification. Art, as we have already 
mentioned, is stripped of its autonomy and cognitive function, and reduced to an 
industrial product determined by environmental needs, hedonistic or pedagogical. The 
freedom of creative genius is thus totally undermined. 

The three major intellectual personalities treated in the book, De Sanctis, Croce, 
and Heidegger, represent three significant phases of the conflict between humanism 
and scientism, subjectivity and objectivity, which affected the theory of art. They are 
instances of the effort to overcome the idea of a dehumanized and mechanical artistic 
creation, determined by factors alien to the esthetic process. De Sanctis, after his 
Hegelian experience and his rejection of Hegelian intellectualistic idealism through 
the discovery of the esthetics of form, encountered and accepted Zola’s naturalism. 
But his acceptance of naturalism was not a reversal of his own theory; rather it was a 
completion of it. He incorporated naturalism into his conception of art, for, to his 
mind, the ideal and the real cannot be separated or conceived as antithetical. In the 
concreteness of life, psychology and physiology constitute the very fabric of human 
reality. De Sanctis absorbed naturalism into a broader and integral vision of life. For 
him naturalism filled a gap in the critical study of man. At the bottom of human nature 
there is the animal, which must be taken into consideration in an integral study of 
man. In this respect, Zola marks a step forward in the art of the novel. De Sanctis did 
not succumb to naturalism, but assimilated it into his own esthetics of form — form 
being identical with content and springing from man’s mind. He, therefore, lived 
positivism and scientism in a critical and original manner, overcoming its 
contradictions and laying the foundation for the revival of the anti-positivistic 
culture which thrived at the beginning of the twentieth century. He never yielded to 
the mechanistic aspects of positivism, and always defended the autonomy and 
freedom of art. 

Croce’s position between idealism and realism is interpreted by Paolozzi in a 
similar way. Croce’s esthetics was a major endeavor to overcome positivism. 
Although Croce was an anti-metaphysical philosopher, he was not a positivist, for 
he rejected the materialistic and mechanistic aspects of positivism. He, in fact, 
conducted a relentless war against positivistic doctrine. “Croce is a realistic 
philosopher,” Paolozzi maintains. “It is enough to remember once again the 
beginning of his career as an erudite researcher, the influence of historical 
materialism, his interest in economics and its importance in Croce’s intellectual 
development, his discovery of the concept of ‘vitality,’ which constitutes the 


486 Italian Bookshelf 


foundation of man’s spiritual values” (64). But Croce’s realism is not to be confused 
with “naturalism” or “scientism,” which take into account only the material aspects 
of reality. On the other hand, it would be improper to call Croce a “romantic,” just 
because he stressed feeling and passion as the foundation of art. He is not a one-sided 
thinker, but a complex personality that is difficult to encompass by a formula. Croce 
is far removed from extremisms: his attitude is one of moderation and balance, which 
takes into account scientific and intellectual as well as sentimental and spiritual 
exigencies. Despite his anti-positivistic stance, he could not dismiss the work done 
by the so-called “historical school” (which included illustrious names, with Carducci 
among them). But he perceived the philosophical limitations and poverty of 
positivism, and against it he vindicated the autonomy of art and its intuitive roots, 
freeing it from the “critical laboratories” which dissected it according to the method 
of natural science. Croce’s realism consists in the concreteness of experience in 
which spirit and matter are one and the same thing. It is meant to be a total 
humanism. One cannot think of Croce as an uncompromising idealist, for, while 
strenuously opposing positivism, he could not free himself entirely from it. And this 
is to be added to his credit: human reality is not all spirit or all matter. It is both. 
Giovanni Gentile, looking at Croce from the perspective of his absolute idealism, 
accused him of being a “realist,” because in Croce’s philosophy not all reality was 
resolved into the subjectivity of spiritual activity. There is in it something which is 
given and not produced by the spirit, standing in dualistic opposition to it. Croce’s 
thought was, therefore, not wholly subjectivistic. But this “something” lying outside 
the subject saved him from falling into abstractness and losing touch with the world 
of reality. In this attachment to the concrete lies his realism. 

Heidegger did not come to terms with positivism, and he struggled in a world of 
industrialized culture to preserve its humanism. Existentialism is anti-positivistic by 
its very nature, because founded on the idea of total human freedom and rejection of 
any form of determinism, be it materialistic or psychological. But although 
positivism and existentialism share their opposition to traditional metaphysics and 
their exclusive interest in the particular (as did Croce), Heidegger’s refusal of 
positivism is steadfast and obstinate. His opposition to the positivistic mentality, 
in fact, characterized his thought, particularly in his later works, where the world of 
technology was sharply scrutinized. He thinks, however, that art, depressed by 
scientism, may still lead man out of chaos. 

Heidegger’s position is doubtless unilateral. Neither science nor philosophy can 
redeem the world; nor can esthetics alone. But Heidegger’s philosophical one- 
sidedness prevented him from thinking of “plurality,” from understanding his 
adversary’s reasons. He fell into a state of ethical indifference which placed him 
outside the tradition of great philosophers. A return to art, which he places at the 
center of his philosophical reflection, and to the idea of the irreductibility of man to a 
mere instrument, are the favorite themes of his speculation. But, Paolozzi argues, the 
remedy to our predicament lies in a new pluralistic humanism (which Heidegger 
refuses) that puts man at the center of the complex world where we live. 

The last chapter of Paolozzi’s book brings to a conclusion the substance of his 
discourse. He advocates a new humanism, which restores human values, without 
disregarding the positive results of our scientific and technological civilization. This 
new humanism, he maintains, must be based on a moral and political commitment 


Italian Bookshelf 487 


which brings to unity the world of utility and that of morality. The return to the study 
of art and esthetics, which has been badly neglected by our positivistic society, is the 
ground for resuming the dialogue on values. Art expresses the values in their most 
intimate form, which is disinterestedness and usefulness. The opposition between 
utility and morality is to be resolved on esthetic grounds, for art is both moral and 
useful, without being either morality or usefulness. 

Despite his veiled disparaging attitude toward positivism, Paolozzi cannot take a 
totally inimical stand in the face of a doctrine which, though rejected as a viable 
philosophy, has nevertheless produced some positive effects. Through the 
positivistic experience criticism has enriched itself by acquiring new tools; and the 
concept of art has broadened itself to comprise aspects not previously perceived. The 
experience of cultural positivism has, if nothing else, led to a better understanding of 
cultural and esthetic problems. The new humanism envisioned by Paolozzi is a 
synthesis of human and scientific values, which combine all the positive elements 
constituting reality. This is perhaps the road to which De Sanctis and Croce pointed. 
The book is well researched, well reasoned, and well written. 

Giovanni Gullace 
SUNY-Binghamton 


Maria Messina. Piccoli gorghi. Palermo: Sellerio, 1988. Pp. 265. 
Gente che passa. Palermo: Sellerio, 1989. Pp. 180. La casa nel 
vicolo. Palermo: Sellerio, 1989, seconda edizione. Pp. 148. 


L’editore Sellerio di Palermo ha riproposto negli ultimi otto anni l’opera narrativa di 
Maria Messina, scrittrice siciliana quasi totalmente sconosciuta al grosso pubblico. 
Nella collana “Il castello”, sotto il titolo di Piccoli gorghi sono stati riuniti nel 1988 
tre volumi apparsi all’inizio del secolo: Pettini fini (1909), Piccoli gorghi (1911) e 
Le briciole del destino (1918). Sempre nella stessa collana nel 1989 la raccolta Gente 
che passa riunisce i volumi J! guinzaglio e Ragazze siciliane, entrambi del 1921. 
Queste due raccolte presentano tutte le novelle della Messina ad eccezione di quelle per 
l’infanzia di prossima pubblicazione, sempre a cura di Sellerio. Finalmente un lungo, 
immeritato silenzio @ rotto, e ci si pud avvicinare a una scrittura squisitamente 
femminile, a una voce sommessa ma decisa. Le silenziose sofferenze delle sue 
protagoniste, vittime di convenzioni sociali, per le quali obbedienza e sottomissione 
sono le qualita essenziali dell’essere donna, affrontano molto spesso difficolta 
economiche che accentuano la precarieta della loro condizione di vittime. 
Un’esistenza grama, monotona, lenta si snoda di fronte ad adolescenti piene di vita, 
di illusioni, destinate ad appassire nella stretta dell’abitudine della vita di provincia. 
Tale é il destino di Lucia che vive la sua breve speranza durante la visita degli zii, ma 
che non osa lasciare la casa senza il permesso paterno. E cosi la sua vita riprende 
“come se la venuta degli zii fosse stata sognata in una tepida notte di primavera” 
(Piccoli gorghi 93). Sensibili, eroiche e tanto forti nella loro debolezza nata da un 
profondo senso di umanita sono le donne mature della Messina. Dopo tanto dare 
sconfinano in una mite follia che le distrugge. Nonna Lidda ha avuto un’esistenza 
grama e si ritrova vecchia ad allevare il nipotino perché il figlio @ partito per 


488 Italian Bookshelf 


l’America. Dopo cinque anni di stenti arriva una lettera e “tre grossi biglietti di quelli 
che la vecchia gna’ Lidda non aveva mai toccati in vita sua” (148). La lettera contiene 
la richiesta del figlioletto che avrebbe dovuto partire subito con un compare venuto a 
visitare i parenti. Ravvolto nello scialle nuovo della nonna, Nené se ne parte e la 
povera vecchia col gelo nel cuore volontariamente soccombe “curva sulla pietra 
liscia, senza lavare il panno che aveva bagnato” (145) nell’acqua gelata. 

La sofferenza e spesso la morte nascono dall’egoismo dell’uomo, sia esso padre 
o figlio o fratello come in Demetrio Carmine intrappolato dall’astuta Claretta nel giro 
di pochi mesi e allontanato dalla sorella Caterina che “serviva il fratello con la gioia 
di una mamma che serve il suo bambino. Era rimasta zitellona per amor suo” (Piccoli 
gorghi 244). Ed ancora una volta l’abnegazione facilmente dimenticata dal fratello 
viene pagata con la sofferenza fisica di Caterina. La pena della vita non @ perd 
prerogativa femminile soltanto, anche se in queste due raccolte i personaggi 
femminili sono preponderanti. Vincitori e vinti sono accomunati da uno stesso 
solitario e doloroso destino, e 1’uomo non ne é immune, perché a sua volta é vittima 
delle sue illusioni o della donna stessa. Calabro “non era servo di alcuno e dipendeva 
da tutti” (239). Cresciuto orfano, aveva pianto tanto sapendo di non avere nessuno, ed 
aveva coltivato l’illusione dell’amore per la figlia del barone Scalia. Quando la sua 
speranza crolla e si trova a fare da mezzano tra la baronessina e don Massimo, la 
coscienza della degradazione che lo aspetta risveglia in lui il bisogno di rinascere, e 
lo strido Jontano di un grillo gli pare “una voce amica che lo calmasse piano e 
l’aiutasse ad aspettare l’alba” (240) che avrebbe visto l’inizio di una nuova vita per 
lui. 

I personaggi di Piccoli gorghi sono gente umile, di condizione per la maggior 
parte modesta, in lotta per la sopravvivenza. La stessa miseria protetta dall’idea di 
decoro appare nella piccola borghesia siciliana, classe dominante di Gente che passa. 
Queste signorine di buona famiglia non hanno né voce né identita: le conquisteranno 
entrambe con il matrimonio, e per arrivarci sono pronte a conformarsi alla pressione 
sociale o a volte a fingere tale conformismo. Pidda, protagonista de II pozzo e il 
professore, confessa la propria ignoranza come titolo d’onore perché “papa gridava 
se vedeva per casa un pezzo di carta stampata” e la mamma diceva “che una ragazza si 
deve tagliare le mani prima di scrivere i suoi pensieri”, ma é pronta a porvi rimedio 
pur di legare a sé il professorino dalle velleita intellettuali. Ogni conflitto interiore 
viene sempre risolto nel rispetto dell’unita familiare. Tutti i personaggi femminili 
sono pronti al sacrificio senza assumere un atteggiamento vittimistico, ma piuttosto 
di riserbo verso la propria rinuncia, come in Rose rosse, dove Bobé é la vittima 
rassegnata della crudele cognata. Dopo tanti anni Bobo rivede don Concetto e il loro 
incontro avviene vicino a un “pianoforte chiuso, nero e lucido come una bara”. C’é un 
magico momento di estasi, in cui il peso del tempo sembra non gravare su entrambi, 
anche se entrambi ne portano tracce evidenti, ma la voce secca della cognata richiama 
alla penosa realta. Bobo si chiudera per sempre, e volontariamente ora, in quella triste 
casa che ha inghiottito le sue speranze e la sua giovinezza. 

Piccoli gorghi e Gente che passa contengono un racconto dallo stesso titolo, La 
Meérica, con situazioni opposte (partenza e rientro), ma con la stessa visione amara di 
un paese che offre il mito del benessere distruggendo perd i rapporti umani. La 
disperata poverta spinge gli uomini alla partenza: “‘pareva la guerra e la gna’ Maria 
gridava i nomi dei suoi due figlioli maledicendo 1’ America con tutta l’anima” (Piccoli 


Italian Bookshelf 489 


gorghi 128). Il nuovo continente “é un tarlo che rode, una malattia che s’attacca” 
(Piccoli gorghi 128) e per Catena che é rifiutata alla partenza a causa di una malattia 
agli occhi sara l’origine della sua quieta demenza. L’analogo racconto di Gente che 
passa segna il rientro di Petru dopo otto anni di lontananza sofferta. Ogni mese 
scriveva alla moglie, inviava poche lire e concludeva la lettera “lavoro come un 
animale, pensando alla casa mia, e certe volte vorrei avere ]’ali per tornare” (Gente 
che passa 78). Ritorna e si autodefinisce “povero” per gli anni passati lontano, solo, 
senza famiglia, per la salute che se n’é andata perché “alla Mérica ci rovinano. Non 
resiste nessuno. E la stilla che corrode il sasso” (Gente che passa 83). E quando il 
sogno della sua vita, una prospera pizzicheria, si realizza, Petru @ inchiodato a un 
letto, chiuso e taciturno, e si rivolge a volte a “qualcuno, invisibile, che egli solo 
vedeva con terrore, li sulla porta chiusa” (85). 

Lo stile della Messina @ sobrio, conciso, evocatorio. Suggerisce al lettore 
un’interpretazione psicologica dei protagonisti che @ semplicemente proposta dalle 
azioni o dalle loro frasi, il cui linguaggio @ specificamente legato al mondo a cui 
appartengono. II registro @ quindi volutamente modesto, espressioni dialettali si 
contrappongono a locuzioni pil ricercate all’interno degli stessi racconti, mostrando 
una flessibilita che rasenta il non-stile. E forse anche per questo aspetto che Sciascia, 
a cui si deve la recente valorizzazione della scrittrice, 1’ha definita la Mansfield 
siciliana. Ma non si pud né si deve leggere la Messina come scrittrice regionale, anzi 
si puo dire che 1’influsso del Pirandello dell’Esclusa é pit forte dell’influsso di Verga, 
a cui la Messina era legata da devota amicizia. L’interesse della scrittrice é rivolto al 
conflitto interiore, alla lotta interna tra bene e male, innocenza e colpa, ed al bisogno 
di redenzione presente nei suoi personaggi pit! complessi. Il folclore o la miseria 
locale la toccano appunto perché parte di una pil’ generale miseria umana a cui 
nessuno sfugge. Senza giudicare comprende, e le difficolta della sua esistenza 
accettate con rassegnazione potenziano il profondo senso di pieta che vela i suoi 
personaggi. 

Nata a Palermo nel 1887, Maria Messina cresce in un ambiente familiare 
difficile, in cui trova pero il sostegno dell’amore del fratello che 1’accompagnera nei 
suoi successi letterari come lungo lo svilupparsi della sua malattia, la sclerosi a 
placche, fino alla morte avvenuta nel 1944. L’opera sua pit’ complessa e matura é il 
breve romanzo pubblicato da Treves nel 1921 e riproposto nel 1982 nella collana “La 
Memoria” da Sellerio. Nel 1989 ne @ uscita una seconda edizione. Senza indugio, 
rapidamente, con pochi tratti descrittivi, la Messina, con sapiente tecnica di 
contrapposizione, metaforicamente presenta lo spaccato di questa famiglia dove 
l’apparente liberta cela la costrizione pit nera. Nicolina, la giovane venuta 
temporaneamente a far compagnia alla sorella Antonietta, sposatasi per obbedienza 
al padre e per gratitudine verso il di lui apparente benefattore, don Lucio, e poi rimasta 
come serva-compagna, siede sul balcone che offre una vista “chiusa, quasi soffocata, 
fra il vicoletto, che a quell’ora pareva fondo e cupo come un pozzo vuoto” (La casa nel 
vicolo 9). Alessio, il figlio primogenito, é malato di tifo. La madre, per stargli 
vicino, prega la sorella di prendere il suo posto nei rituali che il marito si @ 
sapientemente costruiti. Tutto si svolge attorno a lui e per lui. L’asciugamano é@ 
aperto di fronte a lui, le scarpe sono lucidate e posate sullo sgabello per evitargli 
movimenti, il pane @ imburrato, i capelli sono spazzolati con l’acqua Migone due 
volte al giorno. Guarito Alessio, nasce una seconda bambina e le cure di Antonietta 


490 Italian Bookshelf 


per il marito sono sempre pil rapide e sofferte. Nicolina @ pit devota e viene preferita, 
e un giorno don Lucio la ghermisce e con la forza fisica la piega ai suoi voleri. Per 
Nicolina “dentro l’animo si é scatenato l’inferno” (La casa 70). L’inferno reale si 
scatenera pero all’interno della casa quando Antonietta vedra nella sorella la sua 
rivale. Tra loro come angelo della pace si mette Alessio, il solo che sfugge alla 
pressione paterna, il solo teneramente e pietosamente legato a entrambe. Ma quando 
si vede rifiutare dal padre il minimo aiuto morale e finanziario di cui ha bisogno, 
percepisce a fondo la meschinita morale di don Lucio e si toglie la vita dopo aver 
preso congedo dalla madre non senza averle rivelato la sua conoscenza del male 
familiare: “Abbia coraggio, mamma. La vita @ una cosa triste. Anche, la prego, 
perdoni alla zia. Ha sofferto la sua parte .. .” (La casa 121). 

La morte di Alessio segna la fine del tirannico regno di don Lucio. Antonietta si 
lascia lentamente andare, evade nella follia, e Nicolina, pur sempre obbediente e 
umile, rifugge ormai da ogni rapporto con don Lucio. E nella conclusione del 
romanzo, nelle giustificazioni che don Lucio si da sul suicidio del figlio — “era un 
debole”, “presto sarebbe stato un vinto” (La casa 137) — che appare il femminismo 
della Messina, se attribuiamo al termine la rivendicazione delle qualita femminili. 
Antonietta e Nicolina si stagliano con la loro statura morale e con la netta percezione 
della realta da loro costruita e poi accettata. Antonietta prima di abbandonarsi al 
dolore e rinunciare alla vita, ammette la propria responsabilita: “tutti un poco gli 
abbiamo avvelenato la vita, come si avvelena una fresca sorgente. Se io avessi 
capito, me ne sarei andata con lui” (La casa 142). La percezione delle infinite 
possibilita della vita per lei e per Alessio la raggiunge troppo tardi e non sa 
perdonarsi di non aver capito il dramma del figlio. Invece Nicolina nell’amara 
consapevolezza della propria colpa trova la forza redentrice del perdono nella 
preghiera: “e pregava, e domandava perdono anche per suo cognato” (La casa 138). 

Non a torto Anna Bragance, in una recensione alla versione francese del 
romanzo, ha scritto che una visita alla casa del vicolo pud essere pit efficace di tanti 
manifesti femministi. 

Rosalia Colombo Ascari 
Sweet Briar College 


Diaro Biocca, ed. A Matter of Passion: Letters of Bernard Berenson 
and Clotilde Marghieri. Berkeley: The U of California P, 1989. Pp. 
xv + 286. 


In 1925, the great art critic, Bernard Berenson met Clotilde Marghieri, an aspiring 
journalist in her early thirties. Despite the disparity in ages (Berenson was then in 
his sixties), they were much attracted to each other and began a correspondence which 
continued till his death in 1959. The editor estimates that they exchanged 
approximately sixteen hundred letters during that period. In 1981, Marghieri 
published a selection of the letters translated into Italian. The present editor has now 
published a somewhat larger number, well edited and pleasingly presented. 

The letters are elegantly written (both correspondents wrote in English) and 
reflect two sensitive intelligences. The letters have little interest in themselves, 


Italian Bookshelf 491 


aside from what they indicate about the writers. A considerable part of them is made 
up of protestations of love and highly self-conscious examinations of that love. 
Love letters are delightful to write and to receive but reading other people’s love 
letters can pall, even when they are as elegantly written as these; there aren’t but so 
many ways to say the things that are said. 

Considering the nature of the correspondents, the intellectual content of the 
letters is not great. These letters are not likely to be valued as works of art or for their 
contents. They are often charmingly domestic, recounting family news, visitors, 
books read, vacation plans, etc. There are brief and often shrewd comments on books 
and people. They open a window into a world few of us inhabit and will interest those 
who are a part of such a world or wish they were more than I do. This suggests the 
point of view of this review, which some readers will want to discount. 

In short, there is little of interest in this collection except for what it shows 
about Berenson (I do not know if Italians have a comparable interest in Marghieri). It 
shows quite a lot, providing that lot is put in the context of a wider understanding of 
what Berenson was like. A review of the book, therefore, inevitably becomes a 
review of Berenson, who was a figure important enough to warrant the attention. 

The protestations of love might be more impressive for those who are not aware 
that Berenson wrote comparable letters to others. He had an insatiable appetite for 
beautiful, intelligent young women, an appetite he gratified as often as he could until 
his final years. Both correspondents were married. Berenson’s chief biographer 
believes this affair was not consummated (Emest Samuels, Bernard Berenson: The 
Making of a Legend, Cambridge, Harvard UP, 1987, p. 344). 

If so, she would be a rarity. The published letters suggest that this was 
something of a technicality, since they played so intensely with passion. According 
to the editor (ix), Marghieri destroyed a number of letters to protect their privacy. 
This in itself is irritating to the historian, who dislikes being given a sanitized 
record. Hagiolatry makes historical understanding difficult. Presumably, the loss of 
those letters prevents answering this not very interesting question. 

What kind of person was this remarkable and rather mysterious man? In an 
important sense, there is less mystery about him than almost any historically 
important figure. Through thousands of letters and diary entries, it is possible to 
document his life almost day by day, sometimes hour by hour. Many of his nearly 
innumerable friends have written reminiscences that record his personality and 
opinions. He is still not easy to account for. 

His achievements were extraordinary, and must be remembered even by those 
who find much about him distasteful. Almost single-handedly, he brought order into 
the study of Italian painting by putting attribution on a secure basis. Through his 
attributions and authentications, he played a major role in the building of the great 
private American collections of Italian painting, which, in their tum, became the 
basis of the great public collections. He published a major classic in art history (The 
Drawings of the Florentine Painters) and many other books. He trained a generation 
of young art historians and museum directors, instilling in them a passion for truly 
seeing the art object and a sense of unwavering probity in the exercise of their 
scholarship. 

He accomplished something many desire and few achieve: he wanted a certain 
kind of life and achieved it. Over the years, he developed his house in Settignano into 


492 Italian Bookshelf 


a wonderfully comfortable and hospitable home and a major scholarly resource: I Tatti 
continues to function, as he desired, as a major research institute under the direction 
of Harvard University. Notably, he made an enormous number of friends among 
people of many different professions, but all of genuine intelligence and 
achievement, people who held him in the highest affection and respect. Uniformly, 
they seemed to find him of infinite charm and interest and nearly all found him truly 
life-enhancing. His conversation was remarkable. He was a man of extraordinarily 
wide learning and capacious memory. Oddly, for a man who was an aesthete to the 
point of being a dandy, his political opinions were faithfully republican and liberal 
democratic, while he moved so much in an aristocratic society. 

Why is it, then, that the final impression of one not exposed to his personal 
charm is more than a little thin? This book provides clues. 

Despite the democratic politics, he was a thorough snob. It was not a snobbery 
of class but of kinds of intelligence. A motif of both sides of this correspondence is 
judgement: everybody either is or is not “our kind of people.” Marghieri says in one 
letter (274) of a visit to a friend, “He was alone there with a friend of no importance.” 
Oh. 

Berenson says (79), “our painfully constructed House of Life, in which people of 
our kind had been full free men.” And (20), “My own individuality is a fairly 
crystalline substance and shaped to my own consciousness”; “And the idea of a tie 
with anybody that is not elective is so repugnant to me that I cannot be fair to my 
own brothers and sisters” (55). I have my own repugnance for people who can say, 
“No, generation should be left to people who still can perform the highest and lowest 
physiological functions with the same thoughtlessness” (55). 

To his wife, he wrote that she would be a far more interesting person if she would 
give up her jealousy: “Of the deeper realities of humanized people like myself, of 
people shall I say with souls you would not hear” (Samuels 247). Mary Berenson 
jotted in the margin of the letter, “My God, his conceit, selfishness, snobbishness. 
Good heavens, what a revelation of self-satisfaction and cruelty to me.” She has a 
point. 

Berenson himself, a man gifted with much insight, sums it up. Of the difficulty 
of reaching certain places, he says, “And I long to reach them because I have a hanker 
for Byzantine architecture and frescoes, just as others might have for strawberries or 
mangoes or Chateau Lafitte or . . . we shall stop before comparisons get too hot” 
(175): 

Everything was an experience for Berenson, a delectation of his tastes and his 
senses, a nourishment of his sensibilities, something exquisite to build into his 
House of Life. His relations with everybody was part of the experiences of Bernard 
Berenson. He was, in so many ways, remarkably generous (mainly to those of his 
own kind but also to some relatives and to servants). Nearly everybody felt they had 
gotten as much as they gave, or more; what then is the harm? 

Berenson is a strange test case for Yeats’ choice between perfection of the life 
and of the work. Knowingly, but to his regular regret, Berenson chose perfection of 
the life and very nearly achieved it. In the process, he achieved superlative work but 
the instrument he designed for the work was the sensibility he used for perfecting the 
life. He worked indefatigably and with total honesty and the indispensable means of 
that work was a refined sensibility. His perceptions were not unerring and he was 


Italian Bookshelf 493 


notably and bravely ready to confess his errors, for his professional ethics and his 
careful honing of his instruments required it. 

He had decided he wanted a certain kind of life. That life required money. His only 
means of making money was his sensibility. So he entered into his strange relation 
with the art world’s bandit, Joseph Duveen. He seems to have minced his way through 
that squalid world as little untouched by its squalor as it is possible to be; he was 
beyond bribery, beyond misrepresentation for self-interest. Strangely, Duveen, 
himself without scruples, seems to have accepted the fact that Berenson’s integrity 
and public reputation was essential to his own success. But Berenson himself never 
got over the sense that he had sold his soul. All his life he regretted what he might 
have accomplished had he not used his remarkable gifts as he had. 

There is no way of knowing whether he was right, that he could have 
accomplished greater things had he chosen to. He was what he was; to deplore the 
unsavory parts of his personality is, in effect, to deplore his achievement, because 
the same sensibility that used people as an experience was the chief instrument of 
that achievement. He may have used people as though they were fine paintings but he 
also approached paintings as though they were people. At a time when works of art 
are seen as objects to be explained by other systems, or as weapons to use in some 
other conflict, this attentive courtesy to the thing itself is an act worth honoring. 

When those who remember the brilliance of his personality have gone, the 
books remain. They are of great value when they display him at work with the tools 
of his own craft. When he goes beyond that, statements that once seemed so brilliant, 
now seem banal and jejune. It is unfair to him to think his contribution is exhausted 
by the tags he so often used himself but they were central to him; “life enhancing” 
and “tactile values” cannot really be taken seriously as criticism of great art. 

The conclusion here is his own: “All art exists in relation to the ego. When it 
tends to temper, to fortify, to refine, to enlarge the scope of the ego as an instrument, 
it is humanistic, heroic, classical. When, on the other hand, it treats the ego like an 
idol to flatter and worship, or when it deals with it as a spoiled and perhaps sickly 
child that has to be humoured, dandled and caressed, then it is not ever first rate and 
may even be a symptom of Narcissism or Onanism” (85). 

All that is great and all that is displeasing about Berenson is in those sentences. 
It was once said of Monet, “He was only an eye.” A defender replied, “But what an 
eye!” For all his great achievements, Berenson might be summed up: What an eye! 
But only an eye. 

In any case the book is well done and a useful contribution. 

John W. Dixon, Jr. 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 


Aine O’Healy. Cesare Pavese. Boston: Twayne, 1988. Pp. x + 178. 


Con questo studio, Aine O’Healy si propone di provvedere “‘a biographical sketch and 
a chronological reading of Pavese’s literary works” (vii). Lo scenario degli studi 
pavesiani consta spesso, secondo l’autrice, di percezioni distorte e di 


494 Italian Bookshelf 


mitologizzazioni che distolgono il lettore da una conoscenza autentica del Pavese 
scrittore. Certe storture sarebbero di carattere critico, altre di carattere testuale. Per 
ovviare a queste ultime, ]’autrice dichiara di servirsi delle proprie traduzioni. I] primo 
capitolo suggerisce che alla “mitologizzazione” contribui l’atteggiamento stesso del 
Pavese, che voleva limitare l’accesso dei biografi alla sua vita intima e perfino 
“‘provocarli e confonderli” (1). Piuttosto che “‘accettarsi’, Pavese si sarebbe costruito 
una sua persona letteraria, o addirittura varie personae letterarie, secondo le 
circostanze. Lo sforzo di sceverare il mito dalla realta porta l’autrice a un tentativo di 
smontare “il cliché delle origini contadine” di Pavese (2). I suoi contatti con le 
Langhe non sarebbero stati “estensivi” (2). A me sembra, pero, che il significato dei 
contatti di Pavese con le Langhe non si debba cercare nella loro quantita e frequenza 
ma piuttosto nella loro intensita psicologica ed esistenziale. E di somma importanza, 
per decifrare il “mistero” di Pavese, capire le ragioni per cui lo scrittore senti la 
necessita di costruirsi il mito della campagna e di distanziarsi dalle sue origini urbane. 
La sua nascita in campagna pud essere stata “accidentale” (2), ma cid che conta sono 
le conseguenze di tale evento e l’adozione dell’evento come punto focale 
dell’esistenza. Indicare il mito é una cosa, capirlo un’altra. Inoltre, sia nell’ analisi 
psicologica che in quella letteraria, la strumentalita del mito @ pit decisiva della 
stessa trita cifra biografica, com’é il caso, per esempio, nel Petrarca e in numerose 
personae e personalita letterarie. 

Il prime capitolo del volume mette a fuoco il problema di fondo in Pavese: la sua 
instabilita psicologica e la sua inabilita congenita di vivere entro la realta e la 
quotidianeita. Questo potrebbe spiegare il fascino del mito su Pavese come surrogato 
esistenziale e come alternativa all’engagement politico. Il secondo capitolo, “The 
Craft of Poetry”, affronta il problema della poesia in Pavese attraverso un’analisi 
formale e contenutistica di Lavorare stanca. O’Healy mostra come la poesia 
dichiaratamente realista e antilirica, e programmaticamente alla ricerca di un nuovo 
ruolo culturale, altro non sia, alla fine, che un tentativo di soluzione di un problema di 
vita: “the problem of identity and solitude and the relationship of the self with the 
external world” (27). Il significato dell’essere sembra eludere il narratore e con esso 
anche la metafora dell’essere, cioé il “mare” dantesco e leopardiano. In Lavorare 
stanca, |’eternita incompresa dell’essere @ inutile come |’eternita del mare: “inutile 
mare/. . . Ci sara sempre il mare” (32). Se si ammette, come fa ]’autrice, che il valore 
della poetica pavesiana é@ soprattutto psico-biografico, allora é anche suo merito 
l’avere accettato la sequenza cronologica suggerita da Italo Calvino nel 1962 invece 
della soluzione tematica proposta da Massimo Mila nell’edizione delle opere di 
Pavese del 1961. 

Il terzo capitolo ripassa minuziosamente la prima narrativa pavesiana e situa le 
sue strutture emergenti e sperimentali nel quadro pit vasto della grande narrativa di 
Pavese. Anche qui il metodo cronologico sembra appropriato. Giusta anche 
l’osservazione chiave sulla stilistica di questo periodo, dominato dalla paratassi: 
“The use of parataxis . . . is complementary to the situation of his protagonist, an 
outsider in the world, to whom reality presents itself in disconnected sequences” (63). 
I capitoli quarto, quinto e settimo, forse i pit interessanti del libro, raccolgono i frutti 
della buona impostazione dei primi capitoli. I] ruolo innovatore di Paesi tuoi € messo 
bene a fuoco: “it represented a shocking departure from the tone of mainstream 
culture” (64), un po’ come Ossessione di Visconti nello sviluppo del cinema italiano. 


Italian Bookshelf 495 


Fa bene l’autrice a vedere Paesi tuoi non solo come esempio di “americanismo” o 
neorealismo, ma anche come punto di approdo degli esperimenti stilistici precedenti, 
sia in Lavorare stanca che nei racconti. L’autrice nota diligentemente l’avvento dei 
simboli principali della narrativa pavesiana, anche se, data l’importanza cruciale di 
Paesi tuoi nello sviluppo di tale narrativa, ci si aspetterebbe da parte della studiosa 
maggiore attenzione al rapporto di base — appena accennato nello studio — tra 
“paratactical rhythms” (67) nel narrare e lo stato interiore dei protagonisti di Paesi 
tuoi. 

“La poetica del mito” @ discussa nel capitolo quinto. In vista del contributo pit 
decisivo e significativo di Pavese alla narrativa italiana con La luna e i fald, questa 
discussione rappresenta un momento cruciale di riflessione. “Mito” @ un concetto 
chiave in Pavese, che si intreccia costantemente con la presenza della campagna e 
delle colline. Tra i vari sentieri critici che potrebbero portare alla scoperta del mistero 
pavesiano, ]’analisi del mito @ probabilmente quello pit fruttuoso. La conclusione 
della studiosa a questo riguardo mi trova pienamente d’accordo: “The process of 
writing Dialoghi con Leuco served its purpose in enabling Pavese to scrutinize his 
own myths and monsters. It provided him with no reassuring answers to his deepest 
existential concerns on the issues of destiny and free will, but it seems clear from 
several of the dialogues that it brought him, at least on an intellectual level, to a 
greater acceptance of his own humanness” (104-5). 

I due capitoli finali mettono a fuoco la martellante ossessione di Pavese: il tema 
della maturita e della morte (“Ripeness is all”/ “Nature is death’), espressione di un 
“pessimismo storico e di un fatalismo cosmico” (150) che preludono alla fine. Il 
pessimismo consiste nella visione della natura come morte, mentre dai processi 
naturali nasce, obbiettivamente, anche la vita. E il rifiuto del proprio destino entro il 
ritmo ciclico della natura che porta all’alienazione e al suicidio come sigillo di quel 
rifiuto. La luna e i fald, l’ultimo e pit grande sforzo narrativo e stilistico di Pavese, si 
svolge entro questi parametri. 

O’Healy si rivela, alle prese con il vasto fenomeno del romanzo, attenta lettrice e 
commentatrice della sua tematica e della fondamentale importanza dell’elemento 
autobiografico ed esistenziale. Quel che manca @ l’attenzione ai dati puramente 
estetici e stilistici dell’opera, ]’analisi delle strutture narrative portanti come punto 
d’approdo della “search for a narrative technique” annunziata nel terzo capitolo. II 
problema della lingua e del linguaggio della Luna e e i falo resta, al di 1a della vicenda 
esistenziale di Anguilla/Pavese, uno dei passaggi obbligati nello sviluppo della 
letteratura italiana contemporanea, e come tale impone certi obblighi critici a chi 
cerchi di situare l’opera del Pavese in un suo contesto preciso. In conclusione, pero, 
Cesare Pavese di Aine O’Healy @ opera competente, utile, ordinata e stimolante. 
L’autrice legge e scrive con fedelta e sensibilita. La sua intenzione di provvedere “a 
biographical sketch and a chronological reading of Pavese’s literary works” (vii) 
sembra pienamente realizzata. 

Eugenio N. Frongia 
California State University, Chico 


496 Italian Bookshelf 


JoAnn Cannon. Postmodern Italian Fiction. The Crisis of Reason in 
Calvino, Eco, Sciascia, Malerba. London and Toronto: Associated 
University Presses, 1989. Pp. 139. 


This collection of readings of four contemporary writers has several interrelated 
goals. First, each chapter dedicated to one particular writer seeks to reveal and to 
analyze his unique contribution to postmodernism. Then, Cannon concentrates 
attention on the question of literature’s cognitive role as exemplified in these writers’ 
work. Her contention is that they all “seem to attribute a cognitive value to the work 
of fiction,” but their books also “reflect in varying degrees what Umberto Eco has 
called ‘una crisi della Ragione’ (a crisis of Reason)” (10). Lastly, the author is 
interested in what is specifically Italian about the works in question. While noting 
that their fiction can and should be studied in a transnational context, Cannon also 
believes that the Italian intellectual climate in which these writers are situated, and 
the peculiarly Italian emphasis over the last four decades on the “ever-varying 
interplay between political commitment and ‘participatory’ detachment” (15) must be 
taken into account if their works are to be fully understood. These various concerns 
inform the study throughout, so that both a very specific and a broad picture emerges. 
In the first case, we see what is unique, both stylistically and thematically, to each of 
the writers in question; in the second, we see what permits us to bring them together 
under the sign of “postmodernism,” and we are thus aided in better defining this often 
too vaguely applied term. The combined techniques of “close-up” and “wide-angle” 
focus result in a satisfyingly complex picture, at once clear and multifaceted, 
cohesive and varied. 

Cannon’s study contains a general introductory chapter, in which contextual 
information is discussed, followed by four chapters, each dedicated to a selected work 
or works of the four writers. It is to the author’s credit that she eschews an inclusive 
approach; by concentrating on only a few works of fiction she is able to enter into 
detailed discussions that are finally much more useful than summarizing views would 
have been. The study also contains excellent notes and a Bibliography. With her 
characteristic clarity, Cannon writes in the Introduction of the postwar Italian 
intellectual climate, placing her chosen authors within the context of the debates on 
the role of the intellectual stimulated by Gramscian thought, by neorealism, by the 
Gruppo 63, and by more recent developments in postmodern theoretical and critical 
preoccupations. In a few pages the author deftly summarizes the essential issues that 
stimulated and continue to stimulate critical debate and literary experimentation in 
the Italy of the last forty or so years: the intellectual’s and the writer’s role in 
society; the relation of politics and literature; the rejection of naturalism; the 
epistemological crisis; the detective fiction model; the semiotic model; the 
postmodern crisis of reason. All four writers under consideration have been 
conditioned, to one degree or the other, by some or all of these issues; and their 
fiction grapples in varying ways with them. While Calvino and Sciascia could be 
seen as more politically oriented than Eco and Malerba, and while each writer has his 
particular set of problems and literary models, it is nonetheless valid to see their 
fiction as “situated in a slightly different position on a continuum ranging from the 
‘conoscibilita del mondo’ to the indecipherability of the cosmos” (39). There is an 
ethical dimension to the work of these quite distinct writers; while continually 


Italian Bookshelf 497 


questioning the possibility of sure knowledge, they nonetheless remain committed to 
the usefulness, as well as the uses, of literature in the realm of human endeavor. 

The first chapter, on Sciascia’s The Death of the Inquisitor and The Council of 
Egypt, emphasizes the importance of the detective genre to the Sicilian writer’s 
work. Cannon chooses to discuss two works in which Sciascia reveals the ways 
whereby “the exercise of reason that allows the detective to solve the mystery 
parallels the cognitive process whereby the historian reconstructs a discontinuous 
series of past events” (40). In the historical essay and the historical novel in 
question, Sciascia explores the striking similarities between the historical and the 
fictional modes, both narrative constructions that attempt to shape into 
intelligibility disparate and often unknowable events. That narrative imposes order 
and meaning, rather than exposing some inherent and inevitable truth in events, is an 
important aspect of much postmodern thought, from current fictional to 
historiographical, anthropological, and philosophical approaches. Cannon rightly 
asserts, however, that our contemporary scepticism “is not an invention of a 
relativistic, postmodern intellectual climate” (44) but rather the inheritance of a 
strain present throughout pre-twentieth century thought and highly visible in figures 
such as Nietzsche, Hegel, and others. 

The second chapter, on Malerba’s novels of the sixties, The Serpent and What is 
This Buzzing?, moves from Sciascia’s concern with the limits of historical 
verificability to Malerba’s dismantling of the well-made plot. Influenced by the 
emphasis on indeterminacy and contradiction in contemporary physics and 
philosophy, Malerba’s antirationalism is, in Cannon’s assessment, “double-edged: 
on the one hand, indeterminacy or the ‘death of meaning’ evokes a sense of pathos. . 
.[while] these novels celebrate the autonomy of literature and the power of the 
imaginary” (61). Cannon aptly evokes Gerald Graff’s terms for two coexisting 
postmodern strains: the “apocalyptic” and the “visionary.” Both fiercely nostalgic 
for the certainty of ordered and decipherable meaning they so fully dismantle and 
hilariously celebratory of the infinite power of fantasy, Malerba’s novels (these and 
others, as well as his short stories and children’s books) emphasize the liberating 
function of the fictional while avoiding a totally absurdist or nihilist view. Cannon’s 
reading of the complex Malerbian universe is one of the best to date, adding 
significantly to the unfortunately small body -of critical work in English on this 
important figure. 

Although we may all be a bit hypersaturated with readings of Eco’s The Name of 
the Rose, Cannon’s chapter dedicated to it is a good summary of the issues it raises as 
well as a worthy new contribution. Her brief discussion (92-93) of pensiero debole is 
particularly welcome; Eco’s proposal of “reasonability” (as contrasted to pure reason 
or absolute Truth) is certainly to be associated with Vattimo’s and other pensiero 
debole advocates’ search for a position beyond nihilism and the endless play of 
signifiers. The novel, neither classical detective story nor Gaddian “pasticciaccio,” 
owes its appeal in great part to its “acrobatic” (94) nature, its refusal of linearity and 
its embrace of what might be called a “zigzagging” progress toward 
comprehensibility. 

In the final chapter, Cannon studies Calvino’s Palomar and Collezione di sabbia. 
The questioning of the reliability of perception that underlies the novel makes of its 
protagonist a “phenomenologist manqué “ (97), a pathetically comical figure akin to 


498 Italian Bookshelf 


Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin, as Gianni Celati has so appropriately suggested. 
Cannon highlights the various techniques employed by Calvino in the construction 
of Palomar’s plight: defamiliarization; enumeration; the catalogue. She concludes 
that the perplexity of Palomar is quite close to that “which informs recent authorial 
self-portraits” (107). The essays of Collezione di sabbia reveal Calvino’s continuing 
need to collect and order experience at the same time that they reveal, as does the 
novel, “the possible futility of that enterprise” (112). Cannon concludes by bringing 
together Calvino’s much earlier concern with how to swim through “il mare 
dell’oggettivita” with his last “self-portraits” which are not “Calvino” himself but 
rather “consciousness itself, swimming in a sea of indeterminacy and uncertainty” 
and yet doggedly staying afloat. The chapter is particularly strong in its emphasis on 
the comical and ultimately positive aspects of this struggle; Calvino’s luminosity of 
style and lightness of touch, even when faced with the dark impenetrability of the 
world, characterize his work to the very end, thus avoiding the echoing void of the 
abyss of meaninglessness that yawns below all these writers’ constructs. 

A lucid, well-written, and thoughtful study, Cannon’s book explores complexity 
while itself refusing an inordinately complex methodology. The author is fully 
conversant with the critical and theoretical materials of pertinence to her subject, but 
she wears her knowledge with admirable modesty and eloquent simplicity. It might be 
said (and in all praise) that Cannon has learned Calvino’s Lezioni americane well: 
lightness, quickness, exactitude, visibility, and multiplicity are qualities that inform 
her critical work, the same indispensable literary values cherished by Calvino and 
equally to be valued in fiction and criticism. 

Rebecca West 
University of Chicago 


Gian-Paolo Biasin. Montale, Debussy, and Modernism. Princeton 
Essays on the Arts. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1989. Pp. 158. 


Previously published in Italian as J] vento di Debussy: La poesia di Montale nella 
cultura del Novecento (Bologna: I] Mulino, 1985) and translated by the author for the 
Princeton series, Biasin’s study ranges over a wide field of topics relating to 
European modernism. The focal point is Montale’s poetry, in which Biasin finds the 
possibility of considering the interconnectedness of developments in modern music, 
painting, and literature, all understood as texts emerging from and shaping the wider 
cultural system of early twentieth-century Europe. An underlying figure, that of the 
antihero, emerges as one of the central topoi of the various art forms of the period, 
thus providing Biasin with a unifying perspective that enriches our understanding not 
only of Montale’s poetry but also of contemporary music that echoes and pictorial art 
that reflects many similar thematic, stylistic, symbolic, and philosophical 
preoccupations. The result is a study that deepens our understanding of the 
homologies that inform European modernism; further, Biasin’s work fulfills well its 
declared goal of acknowledging modernism as “a fundamental component of Italian 
culture,” which acknowledgment “‘is indispensable in order to align at last twentieth- 
century Italian culture with its Anglo-Saxon and French counterparts [that] have been 


Italian Bookshelf 499 


even too hegemonic so far, while the former actually deserves to be recognized in its 
best voices and achievements” (xi). The diversity of concerns treated in the 
interdisciplinary approach and, conversely, the unifying emphasis on the theme of 
the antihero function synergistically to give both breadth and particularity to this 
elegantly thoughtful and thought-provoking book. 

The study consists of three chapters and an epilogue in which Biasin constructs 
an intersection of the divergent paths followed in the separate chapters. The first is 
entitled “Debussy and the Wind”; the second, “Ut Figura Poesis,” in which Giorgio 
Morandi’s art is studied; the third, “Strategies of the Antihero,” is dedicated to the 
“clown” or schlemihl of Svevo’s and Pirandello’s prose fiction. The bourgeois 
protagonist who emerges in the figures of Zeno Cosini and Vitangelo Moscarda is 
compared to Montale’s Arsenio; all three are ultimately joined as “emblematic 
characters,” reflective not only of a “crisis (alienated consciences), but as projects of 
a different and better idea of man (conscious alienation)” (106). The epilogue, “The 
Plainclothes Clown,” draws on Starobinski’s Portrait de l’artiste en saltimbanque , in 
which the critic posits that the artist as clown criticizes both bourgeois values and 
the artistic vocation itself. He concludes that “such an attitude [is] one of the 
characteristic components of ‘modernity’” (quoted by Biasin on p. 113). Biasin sees 
Arsenio as just such a figure; as a “mask” for the poet himself, he remains suspended 
between the world he seeks to transcend and the new reality he seeks to create through 
his art. 

One of the many strengths of Biasin’s work, evident already in his earlier 
Literary Diseases and Italian Literary Icons, is the way in which he succeeds in 
investing a thematic focus with wide-ranging critical and theoretical complexities. 
While it is difficult to single out any one dominant methodological approach in this 
study, it is possible to identify some of the voices to which Biasin has most carefully 
listened and from which he has drawn some of the directions of his own interpretive 
strategies. First, he has listened to Montale himself, not as the sole or even most 
privileged commentator of the verse, but as an articulate source of information on the 
origins and goals of his artistic activity. This is very evident in the first chapter 
dedicated to Montale and Debussy, in which Biasin begins by reminding us of the 
poet’s assertion (in his “Imaginary Interview” of 1946) that he “had an idea of the 
new music and the new painting” when he began to write the poems of Ossi di seppia. 
Biasin thus emphasizes the importance of what would become “Montale’s three basic 
lifelong interests: poetry, music, and painting” (4). While acknowledging that the 
young poet may well not have been aware of what we now recognize as significant 
analogies among impressionist and other forms of modern art, the dissonance of 
moder music, and the stylistic innovations of modern poetry, Biasin nonetheless 
rightly underscores the interactiveness of the arts in the period of early modernism, 
as well as Montale’s acceptance of and sensitivity to such a view of artistic 
creativity. Indeed, all of Montale’s poetry, from the very earliest to the very last 
verses, reflects in many complex (and far from unproblematic) ways his belief in the 
interconnectedness of the arts. As Biasin proceeds to analyze the particular analogies 
between Debussy and Montale, this belief takes on concrete form and tangible 
attributes, thus successfully avoiding the sometimes unconvincingly vague 
assertions of interdisciplinary studies. 

If Debussy and Montale can be brought together based on very real textual and 


500 Italian Bookshelf 


historiographic evidence (Montale’s declared interest in the musician; his “Accordi” 
and other “musical” poems), Biasin’s chapter on Morandi and Montale moves from 
“general considerations of a theoretical nature” (38). Here, Biasin takes off from the 
work of Louis Marin and Jean-Francois Lyotard, both of whom have provided major 
contributions in the area of comparative studies between the visual arts and literature. 
If Marin’s approach is primarily semiotic, Lyotard’s is deconstructive. In their work, 
as in the equally diverse approaches of Gilbert Durand, Rudolf Amheim, Marc-Eli 
Blanchard, and W.J.T. Mitchell, however, there is an underlying interest in the 
language of images and in the homologies between the imaginary and the discursive, 
the figural and the logical, the spatial and the linguistic (38-42 passim.). In addition 
to this general theoretical arena, the Montale-Morandi connection is supported by 
several other factors: they are of the same generation and “share the same European 
culture of the beginning of this century” (42); they are both recognized masters of 
modernism (43-44); their thematic and formal choices are both oriented to pared- 
down objects and landscapes that resonate with metaphysical meaning (44). Once 
again, as in the chapter on Debussy, Biasin proceeds to investigate concretely and in 
great detail the significant analogies that link these two figures. The considerations 
of Morandi’s art, aided by the inclusion of several illustrations, are particularly 
illuminating for those who, like Italo Calvino and art critic Francesco Arcangeli 
before them, may have noticed the resonant connections between Montale and 
Morandi, but have rarely had them so sensitively and profoundly explored. 

In the third and final chapter, “Strategies of the Antihero,” Biasin moves into 
the fascinating area of intertextual homology between lyric poetry and narrative 
prose, which, he notes, “‘seems to have been too often sacrificed to the exigencies of 
rational clarity and genre classification inherent in historicist discourse” (70). 
Quoting the insights of Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo and Romano Luperini, both of 
whom have noted the “narrativity” of Montale’s verse, Biasin proceeds to a summary 
of Bakhtin’s fundamental work on the novel as “the hegemonic genre of modernity” 
(71). Taking off from some of Bakhtin’s by now classic notions on polyphony, 
heteroglossia, and the dialogic imagination, as well as from his emphasis on the 
importance of the role of popular masks in the formation of the novel, Biasin moves 
into a consideration of the emergence of the figure of the antihero in the novels of 
Pirandello and Svevo. He agrees with Renato Barilli’s assessment of the two writers 
as “great innovators and founders of the contemporary novel”; while less prepared to 
privilege a purely positive notion of newness, Biasin nonetheless concurs in 
proposing the victory of the Svevo-Pirandello line over other less successful 
developments in the early twentieth-century Italian novel. Further, and more 
importantly, he emphasizes that moder literature saw itself as “project” rather than 
mere reflection of a given cultural situation. Montale’s early poetry, like the novels 
of Svevo and Pirandello, is “projectual,” seeking new modes and meanings; Biasin 
argues that nowhere is this seen more clearly than in the figure of Arsenio, Montale’s 
emblematic bourgeois character who strains against the limits of the order in which 
he finds himself. In its thematic and stylistic details, the poem “Arsenio” tells a tale 
very much allied to the stories elaborated by other artists of modernism: alienation, a 
search for transcendence, an open ended journey toward quotidian epiphanies 
conditioned by self-irony and doubt, all recounted in language that is antiaulic, 
oxymoronic, and “broken” by dissonance and negativity. 


Italian Bookshelf 501 


Remarkable for its generous acknowledgment and subtle elaboration of the work 
of many diverse critics and theoreticians, its diversity and cohesiveness, and its 
eloquently readable style, Biasin’s study merits the attention not only of dedicated 
students of Montale but also of all those of us who seek a better understanding of 
modernism. While we may well be “postmodern” and therefore beyond projects 
founded on unifying conceptions of art and life alike, it is no less important that we 
comprehend a cultural moment when the music of Debussy, the painting of Morandi, 
and the writing of great novelists and poets such as Svevo and Montale could resonate 
together in a space and time of mutually shared sounds, visions, and beautifully 
unharmonious harmonies. 

Rebecca West 
University of Chicago 


Giorgio Cavallini. Strutture tendenze esempi della poesia italiana 
del Novecento. Roma: Bulzoni, 1988. 


Cavallini, coerente allo spirito di eterogeneita dei nostri tempi propone uno studio 
critico sull’itinerario della poesia novecentesca dal carattere prevalentemente 
bozzettistico e asistematico. In questo studio il critico individua innanzitutto 
strutture, tendenze e aspetti nuovi rispetto alla tradizione lirica ottocentesca, seguiti 
da esempi che colgono in concreto la premessa tematica di ricerca dall’interno della 
poesia contemporanea. Seguono poi cinque articoli (uno solo inedito) su avtori e 
problematiche, Gozzano, Ungaretti, Barile, Luzi e 1’attualita di Leopardi, che 
confermano un secolo vitale e fecondo in campo poetico. In appendice sono state 
inserite due rassegne sul rapporto tra metrica e poesia apparse nella rivista “Studium”, 
e nove recensioni di testi degli anni ottanta che esplorano la tematica qui trattata. 

Il critico ligure parte da un problema fondamentale: il Novecento poetico e i suoi 
inizi (9). Un tema senza dubbio assai difficile da trattare in quanto questo secolo in cui 
scriviamo manca di una figura esemplare e oltretutto si ramifica in una disorientante 
varieta di direzioni. Tuttavia Cavallini riconosce in Pascoli il poeta che pit di ogni 
altro mette in crisi le forme poetiche tradizionali dell’Ottocento, instaurando un 
nuovo rapporto tra io e mondo proposto dall’interno anziché dall’esterno. I critico 
identifica quindi come periodo storico di gran mutamento gli anni che intercorrono tra 
il 1909 e il 1919, poiché in essi la struttura compatta tradizionale si frantuma e per 
reazione si profila un’oggettivita emblematica che trova come suo centro 
catalizzatore il simbolo. Su queste premesse tematiche Cavallini individua una linea 
Gozzano-Sbarbaro-Montale che si qualifica quale portante fondamentale degli inizi 
del secolo. 

A questa linea si affiancano varie figure, Lucini, Corazzini, Saba, che 
Tappresentano dei casi a parte, tentativi o meglio gestazioni individuali tese alla 
ricerca di una poetica nuova. A creare questa atmosfera di novita collabora senza 
dubbio il movimento futurista che fornisce una decisa azione di rottura, da cui i 
Vociani saranno una prima avvisaglia di una poesia diversa pit intima e pil pura. 
Nella lirica modema si riscontrano di conseguenza una varieta di modi strutturali che 
non hanno precedenti, una serie di metodi espressivi che adottano uno stretto 


502 Italian Bookshelf 


rapporto tra significato e significante, caratterizzati dal potenziamento del 
procedimento alogico sintattico. Tutto questo non fa che creare delle tendenze, come 
quelle dell’impressionismo e del colorismo nella poesia, iniziate gia dal Pascoli e 
rintracciabili con un itinerario risalente ai giorni nostri attraverso Gatto e Bertolucci. 
In questo contesto le immagini sono il correlativo oggettivo delle emozioni, a cui 
corrisponde un linguaggio meno aulico, e una poesia non cantata tendente al 
prosastico, che vede in Gozzano un gran maestro. Nel Novecento la parola é sottratta 
dal contesto logico, e il frammento diventa una breve illuminazione poetica allo stato 
puro. I] linguaggio si adatta a una nuova concezione del mondo e della sua relativita, 
prevalendo l’uso dell’analogia che mette in contatto con cid che é distante, e 
l’utilizzo del verso libero che é prova di un’esigenza interna di ritmo. 

Dopo questa trattazione iniziale Cavallini prosegue con una breve rassegna 
storica delle tendenze liriche dagli anni quaranta agli anni ottanta (41), in cui egli 
riconosce la presenza del poeta impegnato, coinvolto in una concreta esperienza di 
vita, che é tipica di un certo esistenzialismo storico alla Quasimodo o alla Montale. A 
questa tendenza si affianca l’esperienza di Vittorio Sereni, fondatore della linea 
lombarda, nel quale la poesia si ispira alla storia. Questa tensione verso il carattere 
storico si ridefinisce negli anni cinquanta attraverso Pasolini e lo sperimentalismo. 
Negli anni sessanta la stessa tendenza assume una tinta ideologica nel Gruppo 63, che 
proponendo la dissoluzione del linguaggio corrotto e demistificante colloca la poesia 
in opposizione al sistema. Dagli anni sessanta agli anni ottanta sono fondamentali le 
produzioni poetiche di Sereni, Caproni e Luzi, che accentrando la propria lirica nella 
ricerca morale, valorizzano la presa di coscienza del fluire e del suo essere. In questi 
ultimi anni si é pure consolidata la novita positiva del dialetto, che non adulterato dai 
mass-media, costituisce uno strumento letterario valido per esprimere un’autentica 
identita’. Una serie di testi poetici rappresentativi completano la prima parte del libro 
(57), includendo in ordine cronologico Gozzano, Saba, Campana, Rebora, 
Palazzeschi, Cardarelli, Ungaretti, Sbarbaro, Montale, Betocchi, Quasimodo, Pavese, 
Bertolucci, Caproni, Sereni, Luzi, Zanzotto, Pasolini, Erba, Porta e Conte. L’opera di 
Cavallini continua con cinque brevi saggi su autori e temi di poesia novecenteschi. II 
primo tratta di una lirica di Gozzano (91), “L’ipotesi", a cui sono state assegnate varie 
interpretazioni. I] critico predilige l’interpretazione che considera la poesia come 
preludio alla posteriore “Signorina felicita”, citando in causa le letture di Sanguineti, 
Barberi Squarotti e Montanari. Dai punti in comune e dai contrasti tra i critici risalta 
soprattutto il diverso valore assegnato all’ironia gozzaniana. Nel secondo articolo 
Cavallini prende in esame il gioco di opposizioni verbali in “Allegria” di Ungaretti 
(113) , osservato gia da Giachery, manifestazione di una carica vitale che riflette la 
dilatazione dell’io nell’Universo. L’articolo inedito su Angelo Barile mette in risalto 
invece la religiosita del poeta attraverso la presenza (123) , in Barile, dei defunti nella 
nostra memoria. L’idea della morte (Pascoli) viene qui illuminata dal senso di 
comunione tramite la preghiera. I] tema evolve nella poesia di Barile e da Primavera 
(1933) a Sole breve (1965) propone un processo di progressiva interiorizzazione del 
colloquio coi propri morti. I] quarto articolo prende in esame uno studio di G. Mariani 
sull’itinerario poetico di Luzi (137). In questo contesto la ricerca morale di Luzi si 
impronta in un continuo purgarsi e guardare fuori verso la vita, analizzando una trama 
poetica che é in continuo progresso attraverso le sue forme, i suoi simboli e le sue 
parole-chiave. All’origine della riflessione luziana c’é un atto di fede nella vita 


Italian Bookshelf 503 


stessa, da cui si conquista la speranza per mezzo di una serie di opposizioni 
esistenziali. I] gesto e la parola diventano rito, puntano verso il centro delle cose, 
valorizzano la vita come dialogo e totalita dei suoi aspetti. L’ultimo articolo @ uno 
studio su Leopardi dove si intende storicizzare ed attualizzare l’autore romantico 
(143), esaminando il mito e la presenza del poeta marchigiano in questo secolo. Idolo 
dei Rondisti e in parte degli Ermetici, Leopardi elabora una poesia della coscienza di 
sé, improntata su un lucido interrogarsi, che trova diversi riscontri nella tematica 
esistenziale moderna. In appendice troviamo due rassegne sulla metrica (157) dove si 
addita il nuovo interesse che @ sorto per questi studi e il problema di definire il 
rapporto tra metrica e poesia. Non possiamo che apprezzare questo vivo e cosciente 
itinerario di Cavallini nella poesia del Novecento, soprattutto perché non offre 
soluzioni critiche assolute o ideologiche, dimostrando una seria e profonda passione 
e dedizione alla poesia. 
Massimo Maggiari 
The University of N. Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Maryse Jeuland-Meynaud. Immagini, linguaggio e modelli del corpo 
nell'opera narrativa di Matilde Serao. Roma: Edizioni dell’Ateneo, 
1986. Pp. 153. 


Nel clima di fervida espansione degli studi sulla letteratura femminile si segnala la 
comparsa di questo saggio su una scrittrice che al momento sembrava dimenticata: 
Matilde Serao. 

Si tratta di un’analisi approfondita, nel pit largo senso, dell’aspetto fisico dei 
personaggi e di come essi sono presentati nell’opera di una narratrice che ne ritraeva 
molto accuratamente la fisionomia e i comportamenti. I] lavoro della Jeuland- 
Meynaud rappresenta il primo contributo all’analisi di questo importante aspetto 
dell’opera della Serao ed agevola la formulazione di giudizi sia sulla tecnica 
espositiva che sul valore socio-culturale della stratificazione dei ceti a cui i 
personaggi appartengono. 

Un preciso elenco delle opere, da cui sono tratti gli esempi citati, ed una guida al 
periodo in cui le opere apparvero, offrono un valido aiuto allo studioso dell’ampia 
produzione narrativa della scrittrice napoletana e permettono di seguirne lo sviluppo. 
Attraverso tutto il saggio compaiono note e citazioni d’interesse psicologico e 
socio-antropologico che contribuiscono allo studio della rappresentazione letteraria 
dei rapporti anima-corpo e si affiancano alle ricerche scientifiche sulle varie 
manifestazioni di tali rapporti. 

Meynaud nota che l’opera della Serao inizia durante il periodo naturalista e 
premette che non si propone di psicoanalizzare |’autrice, bensi i personaggi della sua 
narrativa e il suo modo di presentarli e descriverli. All’uopo cita, oltre numerose 
fonti, due scritti della stessa Serao: Saper viver (galateo mondano) e Preghiere 
(galateo religioso). 

Un’analisi generale della percezione del corpo fisico dal punto di vista della 
psicologia introduce un dettagliato studio dei vari aspetti del corpo usando questi 
termini: corpo fenomenologico, biologico e genitale, inclusa ]’autovisione, cioé la 


504 Italian Bookshelf 


visione 0 percezione che gli individui hanno del proprio corpo. Infine presenta un 
giudizio complessivo sulla loro importanza e sul modo in cui sono stati trattati dalla 
Serao. 

Numerosi sottocapitoli distinguono e mettono a fuoco gli aspetti singolari 
dell’argomento. Nella trattazione del corpo biologico si esaminano, tra 1’altro, le 
questioni dell’alimentazione e della condizione fisica dei personaggi e si notano le 
differenze determinate dalla stratificazione dei ceti a cui i personaggi appartengono. 
Precise le descrizioni della salute e le notazioni sulla diversita delle malattie a seconda 
delle classi sociali. All’aspetto biologico si collegano anche le descrizioni dei 
movimenti, che rivelano gli stati d’animo dei personaggi e tracciano indirettamente 
un quadro della vita e della cultura dell’epoca. 

L’aspetto genitale ed erotico é studiato attraverso le manifestazioni dei rapporti 
amorosi descritte dalla narratrice. Jeuland-Meynaud osserva che l’esaltazione della 
sessualita aderisce strettamente ai valori etici e ai comportamenti imposti dalla 
societa de] tempo. In alcuni romanzi e in Preghiere la scrittrice napoletana sembra 
intenta a trattare la sessualita come espressione di immoralita e a dimostrare che tale 
immoralita distrugge i personaggi, almeno psicologicamente, e che quindi il 
godimento sessuale deve essere punito perché suscita disgusto, angoscia e disprezzo 
di sé stessi. Jeuland-Meynaud riscontra queste ed altre contraddizioni limitandosi a 
rilevarle sporadicamente. 

Viene poi esaminato lo stretto rapporto tra erotismo e abbigliamento, e anche in 
questo caso si rileva la grande differenza tra i ceti sociali. Dopo 1’analisi del corpo 
genitale, |’autrice presenta uno studio sull’autovisione, il modo in cui |’individuo 
giudica le proprie apparenze fisiche, e da una breve trattazione di questo argomento 
passa alla discussione di vari temi che includono le fobie inerenti alla propria 
immagine, notando la differenza con cui i contemporanei giudicavano il 
comportamento maschile e femminile. Viene menzionato ancora il dualismo nella 
percezione e rappresentazione del corpo che la Serao sembra voler condannare 
sottoponendolo alla disciplina del sistema sociale del suo tempo. 

Come si é detto, il saggio contiene numerosi rinvii all’opera. Le citazioni in 
francese sono scrupolosamente tradotte anche se in qualche caso troppo 
letteralmente. I termini strettamente tecnici pertinenti alla psicologia possono a 
volte rendere la lettura alquanto difficile. I] saggio, orientato pid verso la psicologia 
che verso la letteratura, pud comunque rivelarsi notevolmente utile allo studio 
dell’opera della Serao e alla definizione critica del suo mondo e della sua arte. 

Eugenia Malagoli Skwarecki 
Duquesne University 


Gaetana Marrone. La drammatica di Ugo Betti. Tematiche e 
archetipi. Pref. Giuliano Manacorda. Palermo: Edizioni Novecento, 
1988. 


Non mancano a prima vista gli studi complessivi del teatro di Ugo Betti. Ricordiamo 
quelli di Barbetti, Cologni, Alessio, e quelli dell’ultimo ventennio, Moro, Musarra, 
Fontanelli e Licastro, senza trascurare la thése d’ état, tutt’ora inedita, dell’ italianista 


Italian Bookshelf 505 


di Digione Claude Imberty. A questa serie di lavori, importanti a vari titoli, dedicati al 
drammaturgo di Camerino, di cui nel ’92 si celebrera il primo centenario, si aggiunge 
ora l’analisi di Gaetana Marrone la quale, in vari punti, arricchisce e mette a punto la 
ricerca anteriore, anzitutto sfruttando acutamente le interrogazioni e le ipotesi sugli 
archetipi e i miti, presenti nell’opera di un Bachelard, un Cassirer, un Eliade, un Frye, 
un Girard, un Neumann, e ovviamente nello stesso Jung, senza tralasciare i 
correspondenti orizzonti filosofici offerti dai Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Kierkegaard, 
Bergson, Jaspers, Sartre e Ricoeur. Ampio veramente é lo sguardo lanciato sui drammi 
bettiani. 

Il la metodologico viene dato nella premessa: “La prospettiva tematica si é da 
tempo imposta come una delle posizioni privilegiate nella storia del criticismo 
bettiano; e, in un certo senso, a ragione se si tiene presente la professata estetica 
contenutistica dell’ autore” (15). Non si tratta di scoprire un Betti nuovo, ma piuttosto 
di capire meglio il Betti esistenziale, religioso, il quale nel teatro intende far “vivere 
la propria fede anziché accettarla” (22). 

Punto centrale della ricerca bettiana risulta la “situazione al confine” dell’uomo 
dopo la Caduta, la fase “purgatoriale” cosi spesso figurata, nei drammi, come salita 
verso una determinata trascendenza. Essendo poi l’individuo, in questo, 
rappresentante della coscienza collettiva dell’umanita, naturalmente 1’Autore fa 
ricorso agli “archetipi della storia cristiana . . . a forme e schemi della psicologia 
analitica, dell’antropologia culturale” (24), approdando ad una tipologia triplice che 
distingue: drammi della Caduta, dell’Espiazione o dell’Eros e drammi della 
Redenzione. 

I drammi dell’ordine trasgredito — Un albergo sul porto (1930) per esempio — 
costruiscono una “parabola della discesa verso una condizione da incubo ed il 
susseguente ritorno” (52). Il simbolismo di questi drammi — forse conviene parlare di 
allegoria — & imponente e 1’Autore sottolinea giustamente il carattere cliché di certe 
immagini — il buio, l’ultimo gradino di una grande scala, eccetera — conseguenza 
stilisticamente necessaria del valore universale che con solenne fissita il 
drammaturgo vi attribuisce. Tale stereotipo non @ assente neppure dai drammi 
dell’Eros: le mura che soffocano, il vento distruttore, il paesaggio desertico, per 
esempio. Questi “emblemi”, nella felice terminologia dell’Autore, sono la veste 
bettiana dell’archetipo. Meno stereotipata invece, pit articolata e legata all’orizzonte 
mitico, appare la “sintomatologia dell’incesto” (135) in Acque turbate (1951). 

Reagente umano della situazione archetipica, il personaggio bettiano, 
essenzialmente transitorio, concentra in sé tutta l’intensita dell’“esistenza in bilico 
tra una situazione che é stata — e di cui permane un vago ricordo — ed una dolorosa 
che é” (33). Le fasi del dramma coincidono con le tappe di questa transizione. 
Nell’Albergo sul porto scopriamo Maria sull’orlo della caduta, “pronta, per partire” 
(53). L’archetipo di Eva, l’appetito sensuale, si esplicita, come giustamente osserva 
l’Autore, negli appellativi della Genesi (“‘serpetta” eccetera) e si ritrova come avant- 
texte nel nome di Eva dato nelle annotazioni manoscritte di Betti. E uno dei pregi di 
questo lavoro di aver reso note queste annotazioni e di averle sfruttate acutamente 
come primo commento in filigrana dell’autore. Ma questa Eva assume altre facce, 
quella di Anna per esempio, nella Padrona (1926), delirante e perversa, la cui isteria 
viene messa in una prospettiva dionisiaca dalle varie sezioni di “balli” (“ballo della 
perversita”, “ballo della morte”, ecc.) inizialmente previste nel manoscritto. Altra 


506 Italian Bookshelf 


Eva ancora rappresenta Agata nel Delitto all'isola delle capre (1948): da un lato figura 
della “dissociazione angosciosa”, dell’amor fati nicciano, dell’“eterna perdita di Eva” 
(115-16); dall’altro rappresenta, quale madre-terra, la catarsi nell’eliminazione 
dell’uomo per salvare la figlia. 

Anche gli uomini transitano. Marco, il “‘cacciatore d’anitre” (1934), nasconde il 
suo egoismo inconscio sotto apparenti slanci umanitari: “l’arcangelo esiliato vende 
pid della sua innocenza al tiranno; rinuncia alla propria coscienza” (63). Per mettere a 
nudo questi moventi servono i “personaggi-attributi” (66), come Aurelio, ma 
soprattutto le frasi dell’antagonista Michial: “Sua grande arma, dice G. Marrone, é la 
parola quale strumento di anatomia interiore, che disseziona dal di dentro e indaga le 
antitesi irrisolte, acutizzandone la situazione conflittuale” (65). Giacomo, in Acque 
turbate, & la “vittima” assoggettata nell’incesto dalla sorella~-Eva. Questa sua caduta 
inconsapevole — @ cieco — lo porta dallo stato di “cadavere” alla salita 
dell’epurazione, presentata in termini politici, e alla decisione finale sul Balcon dei 
Monti. Osserva la Marrone: “L’emblema di Acque turbate @ |’alba, psicologicamente 
un ritorno alla psiche dei primordi; socialmente |’inizio di una nuova era” (138). E 
cosi ci si pud anche ricollegare con “lo stato precedente la caduta”. 

Per Betti la morte @ sacra: lo annunciavano i drammi della Caduta dove il 
“cacciatore d’anitre” morente diventa “necessaria compensazione per |’iniziazione ad 
un livello superiore di vita” (71). Lo confermano i drammi della Redenzione dove il 
suicidio — Irene, Argia — “é un rito di passaggio, la finestra che delimita lo spazio 
profano dallo spazio sacro” (155). Nell’analisi della Marrone i drammi di Betti 
appaiono come percorsi diversamente scanditi verso “une risposta religiosa”. Nelle 
situazioni di confine messe in scena lo stesso concetto di fede diventa paradossale. 
Spiega bene |’ Autore riprendendo in parte una frase del Petrocchi: “Solo in senso lato 
si pud parlare di fede nel teatro bettiano; egli persegue la fede attraverso un processo 
di distruzione psicologica e di ricostruzione morale, non come presupposto 
dogmatico” (24). In altri termini: “Betti concilia premesse esistenzialistiche con 
un’apertura cosmica religiosa” (35). Il Dio di Betti é il centro di una “teologia del 
peccato” (95) radicato nel Vecchio Testamento. “L’uomo deve sperimentare il potere 
della seduzione del male, perché possa intraprendere la via del ritorno” (96). E la 
tematica di un Claudel secondo cui proprio il peccato “serve alla grazia” (Partage de 
midi, 1906). La provvidenza bettiana quindi non provvede né soccorre: ogni 
intervento divino, secondo le sempre illuminanti annotazioni al manoscritto, 
renderebbe “tutto di noi inutile, comicamente superfluo e decorativo” (139). Nello 
stesso tempo si “asserisce l’impegno dell’uomo a redimere la propria vita” (139). 
Questi redentori appaiono nella terza fase drammatica di Betti. Nella Regina e gli 
insorti (1949), per esempio, G. Marrone dettaglia la presenza implicita della figura di 
Cristo nella descrizione di Argia, la prostituta-pharmakos, ma lo stesso vale per la 
lapidazione — fisica, spiega il manoscritto — di Irene. Conclude 1’Autore: “Nella 
morte, la donna-Cristo diviene un oggetto sacro, manifesta la pili alta espressione del 
vivere umano” (162). 

Lo studio di G. Marrone ci sembra un complemento indispensabile alla 
bibliografia bettiana, anzitutto per il notevole allargamento ed approfondimento dei 
quadri interpretativi. Le figure drammatiche vi appaiono nella loro densita concettuale 
sull’iter programmatico che coincide con il preciso progetto bettiano, ribadito nei 
manoscritti. Chi non gradisce questa maggiore astrazione, addirittura prevedibilita, 


Italian Bookshelf 507 


delle dramatis personae attribuisce a torto alla critica uno schematismo inerente alla 

drammaturgia. Nel teatro italiano del Novecento le maschere non sono sempre 
pirandelliane. 

Per non terminare senza alcuna nota critica segnaliamo gli studi di Max Scheler 

— sulla sofferenza, sul rimorso, eccetera — cosi vicini al contenuto bettiano e che 

avrebbero potuto arricchire, se ce ne fosse bisogno, il quadro di riferimento 

filosofico; lo stesso si pud dire della tesi, in verita d’impostazione pit freudiana, di 

C. Imberty. 
Walter Geerts 
Universita di Utrecht 


Franco Brevini, a c. di. Poeti dialettali del Novecento. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1987. Pp. xxx + 611. L. 32.000. 


La recente rinascita del dibattito sulla poesia dialettale italiana é certamente destinata 
a ridimensionare ed arricchire la cultura letteraria in Italia e all’estero. Percio 
l’antologia di Franco Brevini dedicata all’opera dei “migliori . . . poeti che hanno 
fatto ricorso al dialetto” (xxx) nel nostro secolo va accolta come una valida 
testimonianza della persistente vitalita della produzione dialettale. Il volume di 
Brevini si ricollega (anche nel titolo) alla prima raccolta critica multiregionale di 
Pasolini e Dell’Arco (1952), e si propone di continuarla con un orientamento che 
vuole essere pit! documentario che storiografico. Dopo una breve introduzione (VII- 
XXII) e una nota bibliografica il curatore presenta diciotto poeti in ordine 
cronologico, con enfasi sui nomi affermatisi negli anni quaranta-cinquanta. Per il 
Piemonte troviamo cosi Giuseppe Pacotto; per la Lombardia Delio Tessa e Franco 
Loi, i due autori ospitati con maggior spazio nel volume, e Franca Grisoni; per la 
Liguria Edoardo Firpo; Biagio Marin, Virgilio Giotti, Giacomo Noventa e Eugenio 
Tomiolo rappresentano il Veneto, Pier Paolo Pasolini e Amedeo Giacomini il Friuli; 
Tonino Guerra, Raffaello Baldini, Nino Pedretti e Tolmino Baldassari sono i poeti 
selezionati per la Romagna; per le Marche c’é Franco Scataglini, per 1’Abruzzo 
Vittorio Clemente, e per la Lucania Albino Pierro. Senza voler qui entrare in merito 
alle presenze ed esclusioni di singoli poeti — le selezioni di Brevini sono nel 
complesso giustificate e frutto di assidue frequentazioni dei poeti stessi (XXX), anche 
se una buona meta figura gia in Pasolini-Dell’Arco —, non si pud fare a meno di 
notare un certo squilibrio regionale delle selezioni nella forte preferenza per i poeti 
settentrionali e in particolare per Loi e Tessa, squilibrio che andrebbe spiegato: di 
fronte alle quattrocentosettantré pagine dedicate a quindici poeti appartenenti a zone 
dialettali del Nord, solo tre poeti meridionali vengono ospitati, con meno di cento 
pagine. Eppure non mancano buoni scrittori per il nostro secolo, nemmeno per 
l’ultima meta privilegiata nell’antologia: si pensi a Giuseppe Battaglia e Ignazio 
Buttitta per la Sicilia, 1’Anonimo romano [Maurizio Ferrara] per il Lazio, Alessandro 
Dommarco per |’ Abruzzo, per fare solo pochi nomi rappresentativi. 

Le selezioni delle poesie, per lo pit’ equilibrate, anche se varie nello spazio 
concesso ai singoli autori, sono precedute da utili introduzioni critiche e da note bio- 
bibliografiche. Le traduzioni a pie’ di pagina seguono volta per volta quelle delle 


508 Italian Bookshelf 


edizioni scelte; per Noventa e Scataglini non si da una traduzione (ma ci sono note per 
quest’ultimo), perché considerati facilmente accessibili ai lettori italofoni. 

Nell’introduzione generale Brevini sintetizza le caratteristiche della poesia 
dialettale novecentesca con intuizioni e osservazioni spesso felici, mettendo a fuoco 
la tensione tra realismo testimoniale, dissacratorio, ed evasione nostalgica, 
aristocratica, trattando la produzione dialettale come un genere, con il giusto intento 
di superare il vecchio pregiudizio di una poesia minore, subalterna, condizionata dalla 
poesia in lingua. Egli propone infatti varie spiegazioni per la forte ripresa 
nell’ultimo decennio dell’uso dei dialetti nella poesia, da quelle psicologiche per cui 
il dialetto é lingua materna, verita dimenticata, lingua sacrale, a quelle estetiche e 
soprattutto sociologiche, per cui il ricorso al dialetto sarebbe una reazione “alle 
tendenze universalistiche e spersonalizzanti diffuse dalla civilta industriale” (vm). Si 
accenna anche al paradosso della fortuna della poesia dialettale nel momento della 
graduale scomparsa dei dialetti: ma qui un’impostazione pil strettamente linguistica 
avrebbe concorso a prevenire certe osservazioni un po’ troppo generali. Se @ vero, 
per un verso, che la riscoperta di fonti soggettivistiche si pud considerare una 
reazione alla monotonia crescente della vita, @ dibattibile, per un altro, 
l’affermazione secondo cui il dialetto finisce per diventare il “dolce idioma in 
opposizione alla perdita . . . negli standard linguistici nazionali” (X), e che il dialetto 
si fa “lingua della durata” (x). Si consideri come buona parte dei testi dialettali recenti 
riflettano (anche intenzionalmente) il logorio in avvio negli stessi dialetti. I] 
ricorso all’uso del dialetto come reazione individualistica agli standard nazionali va 
infatti interpretato con prudenza, tenendo sempre conto del quadro dinamico del 
panorama sociolinguistico italiano, dal quale risulta una vitalita dialettale diversa da 
regione a regione, da generazione a generazione, e quindi anche una funzionalita dei 
dialetti diversa da un autore all’altro (per una breve discussione dei risultati dell’ultima 
indagine DOXA si veda Ugo Vignuzzi, Chi parla ancora dialetto?, “Italiano e oltre” 3 
(1988), 241-45). Dibattibile anche l’osservazione della legittimazione dei dialetti 
nell’Italia dagli anni cinquanta in poi (in seguito all’accesso degli strati popolari alla 
lingua) e percid della letteratura dialettale. E certo vero che in quegli anni |’italiano 
comincia a diffondersi in tutta I’Italia, ma non si pud ancora parlare di un bilinguismo 
funzionale in tutti i settori della societa italiana per quegli anni, e quindi di un uso a 
pari diritto di lingua e dialetti come mezzi espressivi alti. Pi azzeccate sono invece 
le osservazioni sulle predilezioni della poesia dialettale del Novecento per il 
concreto, la materia oggettiva e collettiva, l’esperienza privata pil che per 1’intel- 
lettualismo e il formalismo, per la galleria dei personaggi, i loro monologhi 
drammatici. 

La bibliografia generale (XXIII-XXIX) @ suddivisa in una parte linguistica e una 
parte letteraria, organizzate cronologicamente secondo la data di pubblicazione delle 
opere. Tra i testi linguistici bisognerebbe aggiungere almeno Giulio Bertoni (J/talia 
dialettale, Milano: Hoepli,1916, repr. 1975), insieme a qualche lavoro 
sociolinguistico; pit completa si presenta invece la parte letteraria che include anche 
una sezione di antologie dialettali. 

Nel complesso 1’antologia di Brevini offre una buona selezione di poeti dialettali 
con enfasi sul secondo Novecento. Pur non essendo la prima opera italiana orientata 
criticamente dopo quella di Pasolini-Dell’ Arco — tanto lavoro pionieristico si deve 
infatti a Mario Chiesa e Giovanni Tesio, soprattutto nel loro primo volume: // 


Italian Bookshelf 509 


dialetto da lingua di realta a lingua di poesia, Torino, Pavia, 1978)__, e nonostante 

una certa mancanza di poeti meridionali, si tratta di un’elegante e utile raccolta di testi 

spesso dispersi e difficilmente reperibili, un lavoro che insieme alle altre iniziative 

recenti contribuira a una pil salda affermazione di diritto e diffusione fra una pubblico 
pit largo della letteratura italiana dialettale. 

Hermann W. Haller 

Queens College and Graduate Center 

City University of New York 


Mariarosa Bricchi. Due partigiani, due primavere: un _ percorso 
fenogliano. Ravenna: Longo, 1988. Pp. 111. 

Maria Grazia Di Paolo. Beppe Fenoglio fra tema e_ simbolo. 
Ravenna: Longo, 1988. Pp. 133. 

Beppe Fenoglio. A Private Matter. Trans. Maria Grazia Di Paolo. 
New York: Peter Lang, 1988. Pp. 165. 


In 1988, two studies on Beppe Fenoglio were published almost simultaneously by 
Longo press, adding to the rich bibliography on the major postwar author that has 
developed in recent years. Much of this interest stems from the publication of the 
often criticized, yet highly valuable, Einaudi critical edition, directed by Maria Corti. 
The two critical works here conjoined have in common the fact that the authors 
support the compositional chronology established by the opera omnia. On a much 
different note, our third volume ventures into an area that has neglected to give 
Fenoglio’s works their deserved attention. Maria Grazia Di Paolo’s pioneering effort 
represents the first complete translation into English of the short “partisan novel” 
Una questione privata. 

In Due partigiani, due primavere, Bricchi identifies as crucial to her argument the need 
to order in temporal progression the two surviving drafts of both novels // partigiano 
Johnny and Primavera di bellezza and then to arrange them within the compositional 
iter of their author. Of these, only the second draft of Primavera di bellezza was 
published during Fenoglio’s lifetime. 

In the preface to her study, Bricchi offers a brief, informative summary of the 
debate surrounding the dating of JI partigiano Johnny, which was published 
posthumously in 1968. Some scholars place the first draft of this novel in the 
immediate postwar years, while others view it as a work of the late 1950s. Bricchi 
writes that the debate over the chronology of the texts is perhaps of lesser 
importance than the disagreement over the author’s plan of execution. The supporters 
of the early dating arrive at their conclusions on the basis of a philological analysis 
and comparison between the first draft of Jl partigiano Johnny and Fenoglio’s other 
partisan narratives. Maria Corti and Maria Antonietta Grignani have strongly argued 
that the stylistic excesses of the first draft, which suggests a period of literary 
apprenticeship, appear to be already in check in its subsequent version. These critics 
sustain that the author’s later works, beginning with the first draft of Primavera di 
bellezza clearly distance themselves from the two /I partigiano Johnny texts and 
display a stylistic restraint, which is the result of a much more mature writer. Bricchi 


510 Italian Bookshelf 


stands firmly with the position of Corti and Grignani, since she expresses some 
reservations concerning the documents on which Eugenio Corsini and Roberto 
Bigazzi base their later date and the opinion that the four drafts were all part of a 
single creative enterprise. Finally, Bricchi mentions the intermediate position of 
Gino Rizzo, who suggests that the composition of the first J] partigiano Johnny was 
written in the immediate postwar years and was followed in the late 1950s by its 
second draft and by the two versions of Primavera di bellezza. 

In her first chapter, Bricchi attempts to ascertain the order of succession among 
the two drafts of II partigiano Johnny and the final version of Primavera di bellezza, 
published in 1959. Bricchi examines the three chapters (15-17) of the published 
novel that do not appear in its earlier version and compares them with the material 
from both drafts of JI partigiano Johnny. This comparative approach enables Bricchi 
to identify material from Primavera di bellezza that has been retrieved from the two /1 
partigiano Johnny drafts. Through a systematic analysis of variants of similar 
passages from these three texts, Bricchi claims that the final version of Primavera di 
bellezza could only follow the two II partigiano Johnny drafts. 

In her second chapter, Bricchi analyzes the compositional progression of the 
final version of Primavera di bellezza in order to illustrate how this novel is the result 
of material drawn from its first draft and from both /I partigiano Johnny texts. She 
begins by applying a thematic and structural approach to the four works in question. 
Bricchi demonstrates that the transferral of material from the original // partigiano 
Johnny drafts to the final version of Primavera di bellezza is fragmentary and limited. 
Furthermore, according to Bricchi, the retrieved material undergoes a complete 
structural reorganization. The most glaring example of this change is the manner in 
which Fenoglio condenses the partisan experiences of Johnny, borrowed from 
several different chapters of the two /I partigiano Johnny drafts, into the three final 
chapters of the second version of Primavera di bellezza. For Bricchi, the editorial 
changes that evolved from one Primavera di bellezza to the other are much less drastic 
and clearly indicate a similar structural scheme. 

Next, Bricchi adopts a stylistic approach in order to confirm her assertion that 
the two drafts of each novel represent two distinct narrative cycles. She observes that 
each novel reflects separate compositional intentions and different periods in the 
writer’s literary development. Her argument is particularly convincing in the section 
entitled “Strategie sintattiche in fieri dai Partigiani a Primavera di bellezza edita,” 
since she ably reveals the clear syntactic opposition between the published draft of 
Primavera di bellezza and both II partigiano Johnny narratives. Bricchi argues that 
the latter texts display a tendency toward expansion and excess, while Primavera di 
bellezza aims toward reduction and precision. 

The volume’s fourth chapter introduces the narratological question to the four 
texts. Applying Genette’s theory of discourse, Bricchi notes a difference in the 
narrative focalization between [I partigiano Johnny and Primavera di bellezza. 
Bricchi indicates that the privileged point of view diminishes from one narrative 
cycle to the other, as the narrator begins to assert a greater presence. Beginning with 
the first draft of Primavera di bellezza, Bricchi observes a new, significant interest in 
dialogue. 

This volume is a useful contribution to the ongoing chronological debate. 
Bricchi exhibits a firm command of perplexing philological questions surrounding 


Italian Bookshelf St 


Fenoglio’s corpus. However, the tendency to belabor her fundamental points makes, 
at times, for tedious reading. 

In Beppe Fenoglio fra tema e simbolo, published in Longo’s “L’Interprete” 
series, Maria Grazia Di Paolo has gathered four previously published essays and 
reworked them. She prefaces her study with a detailed biographical sketch of the 
author. For Di Paolo, it is essential to reconstruct Fenoglio’s life, since his works are 
full of autobiographical references. 

The volume’s first chapter focuses on the character of Fulvia, the female 
protagonist of Una questione privata. According to Di Paolo, this figure represents 
“la quintessenza del femminino fenogliano” (26). The author traces the evolution of 
Fulvia from the brief epistolary fragments in the “Appendix” of Primavera di bellezza 
to the Epigrammi. She attempts to verify Fenoglio’s description of Fulvia as a 
“disgraziato, complicato amore letterario” (27), while keeping in mind that she 
appears and lives in the memory of Milton, the novel’s protagonist. Di Paolo 
provides an account of minor figures from Fenoglio’s literary and biographical 
experiences that contribute to the invention of an ideal female figure. Particularly 
revealing in this context are Di Paolo’s observations on the image of braided hair, 
which assumes a symbolic value in Fenoglio’s works. 

The second chapter offers an interesting analysis of the dominant theme of death 
in light of Fenoglio’s use of the two key terms “muro” and “gorgo.” According to Di 
Paolo, each term assumes symbolic dimensions in Fenoglio’s various writings. She 
points out the frequent use of the word “muro” in Fenoglio’s partisan works, where it 
is associated with a death by shooting. On the other hand, the term “gorgo” appears 
in Fenoglio’s short stories of rural life in the Langhe, where the image of the 
“whirlpool” is linked with a suicide by drowning. Regarding this latter key term, Di 
Paolo lists several examples of words directly tied to the symbolic value of “gorgo” 
(“fiume,” “acqua,” “posto tranquillo e profondo”) in order to demonstrate the 
insistence on death in Fenoglio’s narratives. In both chapters, Di Paolo provides a 
series of excerpts from writings in English and in Italian, who may have influenced 
Fenoglio’s use of each term. Her discussion of the thematic similarities between 
Fenoglio's “gorgo” and Poe’s “A Descent into the Maelstrom” is the highlight of an 
otherwise digressive section. 

In the final chapter, Di Paolo examines the relationship between theme and 
structure in the partisan narratives. In order to facilitate her analysis, she adopts the 
chronological order of the critical edition. She begins with /I partigiano Johnny and 
observes how “linking phrases” and “linking images” call attention to the dominant 
theme of the work. She adds that Fenoglio remains faithful to contingent reality in 
this novel. As she continues her study of the partisan works, Di Paolo notes a 
progressive movement toward a more symbolic representation of reality. For Di 
Paolo, this progression culminates in Una questione privata, where a metaphoric 
language encompasses all elements that have a key role in the narrative structure of 
the novel. She applies Franz Stanzel’s narrative situations of “‘authorial,” “first 
person,” and “figural” to the partisan novels to demonstrate further this progressive 
tendency. However, her narratological assertions are much less informative than 
those proposed by Bricchi. 

With her translation of Fenoglio’s Una questione privata, Di Paolo intends “to 
introduce new readers to one of the best novels that came upon the Italian scene in the 


512 Italian Bookshelf 


sixties.” As she implies in her “Acknowledgments,” it is somewhat ironic that 
Fenoglio’s works have been overlooked by the English-speaking world, especially 
when one considers the writer’s passion for “England and things English.” As she 
does in her critical writings, Di Paolo bases her translation on the text published in 
Maria Corti’s critical edition. 

Di Paolo’s critical mastery of Una questione privata and her genuine interest in 
the figure of Fenoglio contribute to the effectiveness of this faithful translation. 
Nowhere is this more evident than in the concluding pages of the novel, as she 
captures the emotional intensity and frenzy surrounding the chase of Milton by the 
fascists. Minor reservations concern the few instances in which Di Paolo decides to 
maintain an Italian term when, in fact, its English equivalent seems less peculiar and 
more appropriate (e.g. “The signora’s friend”; “Signorino Clerici”; “mezza costa”). 
Also, Di Paolo might have provided additional geographical information in her 
introduction, such as maps, to serve as a guide for the “new readers,” who are 
unfamiliar with many of the places that are mentioned in the novel. 

Mark Pietralunga 
Florida State University 


Raffaello Franchini. Eutanasia dei principii logici. Napoli: 
Loffredo, 1989. Pp. 191. 


"In this volume,” according to the cover notes, “Raffaello Franchini examines the 
relationship between logical principles and transcendental-dialectical logic. Through 
a close analysis of texts by Aristotle, Kant, Hegel, Spaventa, Gentile, Croce, and 
other less studied authors, such as Lask and Weil, he comes to the conclusion that 
those principles, improperly attributed to Aristotle by the eighteenth-century 
manuals compiled by Wolff and Baumgarten, conflict with the criticism of formal 
logic voiced by supporters of transcendental philosophy.” 

This statement, while an oversimplification, offers an intriguing glimpse at the 
nature and central concern of Franchini’s complex inquiry, which touches upon 
fundamental and significant philosophical issues of wide interest, and provides a very 
stimulating intellectual experience even to non-specialized readers. 

Franchini’s approach emphasizes the concrete, historical dimension of reality, 
rather than its abstract, logical aspects. This means that for him logic is not a set of 
absolute scientific principles, but a human and therefore historical activity, 
dominated by man’s freedom and subject to variations, imperfections, and 
uncertainties. Logical judgments are provisional and not fixed; truths are 
probabilities and degrees of approximation. The euthanasia of logical principles is 
the outcome of the awakening of man’s historical consciousness and the consequent 
relativization of everything. 

The main problem elucidated in the work is that of the character of formalistic 
logic as compared to transcendental-dialectical logic, and the gradual passage from 
the former to the latter or their merger. Formalistic logic, which dominated western 
thought for 1800 years, is syllogistic and deductive in nature. It is a set of rules meant 
to lend correctness and coherence to man’s thinking. But such correctness and 





Italian Bookshelf 513 


coherence are simply verbal, abstract, with no relation to content, for human reality 
is far from conforming to logical principles which, throughout the centuries, were 
stiffened into unbending rules of intellectual as well as practical behavior. 

Transcendental-dialectical logic, by contrast, is of a creative character: it can be 
regarded as the process by which reality comes into being, and, therefore, as a 
cognitive methodology, whereby knowing and creating are identical, though 
preserving their distinctness. While formalistic logic is detached from its content 
(which it presupposes), transcendental philosophy advocates a logic that 
encompasses both the principles and their content. Logic cannot be an empty form 
devoid of any substance; it must be part of the reality it interprets. And reality is not a 
fact, but self-creative activity. In short, while formalistic logic is dualistic, 
transcendental-dialectical logic in its operation creates and unifies the world of 
reality. 

The itinerary described by the author is “that of a progressive liberation by 
transcendental thought from the idea that the abstract can, somehow, predetermine or 
even precede the concrete” (40). The concrete, the particular, must precede the 
abstract, the universal. Logical principles are abstract rules, which cannot be raised 
to the rank of necessary antecedents of reasoning. 

The question is linked to the problem of the “beginning,” the “starting point” in 
philosophy, from which all the rest derives and acquires meaning. What comes first? 
The logos or nature? For Hegel the logos is posited as an absolute principle before 
which nothing is conceivable. But the rules of reasoning, which constitute a creative 
process, must be founded on man’s behavior rather than on absolute principles. Logic 
must cognitively penetrate the content rather than concern itself with form, for no 
formal rules can be imposed on reasoning when they are extrinsic to reality. 
Therefore, the norms that formalistic logic seeks to apply to thought must be 
regarded as an abuse. Although the intent of logic is to insure that no mistakes are 
committed in man’s thinking, the application of strict formalistic rules leads to the 
dehumanization of man. Today’s ideal of formalistic logic is the computer, which has 
never any doubts. Truth, however, is a process of human production, subject to human 
uncertainties and opposed to mechanical laws. Western philosophy, in fact, could not 
totally separate logic from human reality, for logic is an integral part of that reality. 
The rational process is always closely connected with human activity and the 
intuition of particular objects. 

Descartes was the first to rebel against logical formalism, which he considered to 
be a non-cognitive methodology, detached from reality, and to set intuition against 
syllogistic rules. With him philosophical discourse is transformed into a search for 
truth, which means that its results are never conclusive. After Descartes, 
philosophers began to view logic as cognitive activity. For Leibniz, thought and 
metaphysics are closely related: logic does not only observe and deduce, but also 
interprets, distinguishes, and thus acquires a historical character. Logical norms lose 
their absoluteness because they represent a course of constant change. The 
metaphysical nature of logical principles is considered to be a conquest of modern 
thought since Leibniz. Kant accepted formalistic logic, but in a revised version. 
Though formalism is for him a canon which contains the conditions for the operation 
of the intellect, regardless of any content, his logic is transcendental, not 
formalistic. It has, in other words, a cognitive character based on the unity of 


514 Italian Bookshelf 


knowing and thinking, in which knowing is intuition and representation, and 
thinking is the conceptualization of intuitions and representations. Logic develops 
from multiplicity to unity, through the right use of the intellect. “Intuition without 
concept is blind, and concept without intuition is empty”: therefore, the unification 
of the two terms signifies the modification of the absoluteness of logical principles. 
“If the transcendental is the ontological, it is the constructor of its own objects, the 
promoter of objectivity,” the author says; “therefore knowledge is not only taking 
note of something, but is activity, creation” (53). Kant held formalism to be simply a 
propaedeutics to cognition. 

It was Hegel who radically rejected the formalistic tradition in logic, and who 
viewed the form of thought to be the very form of reality, which is unity of 
representation and concept, that is, the synthesis of the particular and the universal. 
Thought is not extrinsic to reality, but identical with it. “Hegel’s dialectic is simply 
the continuation of Kant’s transcendental logic, from which it inherited two essential 
characteristics unknown to ancient logic: its cognitive value and, therefore, its 
connection with intuition, and its creation of the object to be known” (77). Hegelian 
logic is historicist, and not submitted to absolute rules: it leaves the logos, in its 
eternal work of self-creation, all its freedom of movement and choice. 

Bertrando Spaventa was the philosopher who furthered considerably the 
transformation of logical principles from abstract formulae to acts of concrete 
thinking, that is, historical judgments. He maintained that the unity of logic and 
metaphysics implies the rejection of formalistic logic, considered to be extrinsic and 
indifferent with regard to content. The flaw of logical formalism lies in its exclusive 
interest in empty thought, with no concern for metaphysics. Spaventa asserts that 
abstract rules, although they are useful whenever one needs to put one’s ideas in order, 
must not be taken as absolute and inviolable : “The fear of self-contradiction is no 
less risky than the haughty assurance of never contradicting oneself or of breaking 
the ties (totally extrinsic) with a purely imaginary coherence” (17). Transcendental 
thought advocates a logic which, by uniting the finite and infinite, expresses the 
inseparability of thinking and knowing. 

Logical principles cannot be absolute because human activity does not abide by 
their norms consistently. Sometimes, in fact, it is advantageous to violate all such 
norms. Man’s thinking has no scientific character, since he, being a historical 
creature, constantly invents, discovers, and re-creates : ““We do not hold that logical 
principles are vain,” the author asserts, “but that their utilization and usefulness are 
relative. The foregoing remarks have tried to identify their limits, in order to prevent 
the tendency to regard them as a fetish” (135). 

It appears fairly clear that the historical development of logic moves from 
abstract to concrete logic, from formalistic to transcendental logic. The two tend to 
merge into one, as do form and content. Logic cannot be absolute abstraction without 
intuition and representation, for logic is the power of thought in its self-creative 
eternal becoming: logical principles are abstract rules which logic cannot do without; 
but they are not absolute and unbending. Modern logic, the author affirms, “tends to 
become an organon rather than a canon, because it historicizes itself and rejects the 
rules since, it is argued, the correctness of reasoning is always metaphorical and 
relative, because it introduces a new element of poetical character, i.e., intuition” 


(11). 


Italian Bookshelf 515 


The science of first principles is metaphysics; the science of thought is logic: 
but the two are mutually dependent. This means that metaphysics does not contain all 
reality. Without metaphysics, however, reality would be nothing. Logic, to the 
extent that it is transcendental-dialectical, is a dynamic function; to the extent that it 
is formalistic-abstract, it is outside that function. 

Franchini’s criticism and rejection of formalistic logic should not be interpreted 
as the negation of the formal character of logic : “ transcendental logic” he states, “‘ is 
the most formal of all logics. . . . We simply continue to hold absurd the idea that the 
science of the logos can be considered outside the field of philosophy” (92), 
understood as the cognitive activity of the human mind. 

The foregoing presentation is only a sketchy overview of the work, which is so 
rich in concepts and philosophical considerations as to elude adequate summarizing. 
Although the book may be meant for specialists, the clarity of exposition makes it 
also accessible to non-specialized readers, who will certainly find it enlightening and 
thought-provoking. 

Giovanni Gullace 
SUNY-Binghamton 


Renata Viti Cavaliere. Il gran principio: Heidegger e Leibniz. 
Napoli: Loffredo, 1989. Pp. 221. 


The “great principle” which the author undertakes to elucidate in all its logical and 
historical aspects (and she does it with perceptiveness and coherence) is the principle 
of “sufficient reason,” which constitutes a cornerstone of Leibniz’ metaphysics. 
“Sufficient reason,” which concerns the “truths of fact,” is God’s reason for choosing 
this particular world and the elements composing it from among an infinite number of 
other possible worlds and elements. Such a reason surpasses human understanding, 
for man, as a finite being, cannot encompass God’s entire master plan in creating the 
present reality and in assigning to each of its parts a precise function in a perfectly 
structured and harmonious rational universe. The causes for the “truths of fact” (or 
contingent truths) are known only by God, Who is at the origin of everything. The 
“nihil sine ratione,” which is the foundation of rationalistic philosophy, leads 
therefore to the prime reason, which is God’s wisdom. 

The principle of “sufficient reason” is, in fact, the bone of contention between 
Leibniz and Heidegger. The latter resolutely rejects it together with the metaphysical 
rationalism it implies. For Heidegger, reality is a spontaneous event which has no 
discernible reason, either immediate or remote. But to Viti Cavaliere’s mind, the 
principle of “sufficient reason,” though formulated to provide a firm point of 
departure for traditional philosophy, “contains some problematic aspects requiring 
more reflection” (11). These “problematic aspects” evidently concern the rational 
connection of facts. And here the author relates Heidegger to Leibniz, bringing the 
two thinkers to a philosophical confrontation which results in a number of complex 
issues, studied and explained in the present volume with superior mastery. Leibniz’ 
metaphysical thought is interpreted to allow for some of Heidegger’s anti- 
metaphysical views; and Heidegger is regarded as owing Leibniz “more than one can 


516 Italian Bookshelf 


imagine,” and “more than what is implied in Heidegger’s refusal of modern logic” 
(183). The suggestion seems to be that Leibniz was not, after all, a total and 
unredeemable rationalist, nor was Heidegger a thorough and unshakable irrationalist. 
There was some ground that they held in common; and this is perhaps what Viti 
Cavaliere’s work endeavors to establish. 

Heidegger presents his own thought as radically breaking away from that 
philosophical tradition beginning with Plato and ending with Nietzsche, which he 
defines as “metaphysical,” and he characterizes his own philosophy as the 
“overcoming” of metaphysics. For the Greeks, philosophy meant relating every fact 
or object to an archetypal idea; for Christian theology, it was the connecting of finite 
reality to the infinite power of God; and for the modern world, it is the guarantee of 
the principle of non-contradiction. But with Leibniz, philosophy “begins to open 
another cognitive horizon . . . through the principle of possible worlds” (50). 
Leibniz is viewed as the dividing point between the past and the aspirations of 
modern men. His principle of “sufficient reason,” while attributing a reason to 
everything, made such a reason coincide with the intrinsic law of being. The “truths 
of fact” are not brought about by divine will, but by a dynamism springing from a 
disharmony existing within God’s harmonious master plan. They are the outcome of 
man’s unpredictable behavior, of his passions, instability, and senselessness. 
Reason cannot account for the recondite motives of human actions and facts. Within 
the great plan of pre-established harmony there operates the irrationality and 
spontaneity of individual choices. Nothing has a fixed and stable character : 
everything moves and changes freely, owing to its historical nature. 

Heidegger assailed supposedly unshakable certainties by dissociating knowledge 
from logic and replacing logic with poetic invention and intuition. He rejected 
Leibniz’ metaphysical presuppositions and pan-rationalism, although he perceived 
in the principle of “sufficient reason” a new perspective rich in suggestions for a 
“fresh beginning” in philosophy. “Sufficient reason” seemed to realize the 
Archimedean dream of moving the earth with the support of a firm point outside it, 
while retaining its internal instability and freedom of action. Leibniz’ conception of 
man as an insuppressible individual who cannot be sacrificed to the whole, nor 
subjected to outside authority with regard to his rights and moral duties, makes him a 
modern philosopher, far removed from the image of the theorist of metaphysical 
rationalism (60). Leibnizian rationalism, which was accused of leaving no room for 
individual experience and freedom, for human innovation and creativity, is perceived 
here in a different light. 

The principle of “sufficient reason” was credited with opening up the world of 
possibility, history, and modern subjectivism to philosophical speculation. The role 
Leibniz attributed to subjectivity in the process of knowledge, and his perception of 
the inter-relation between thinking and being, made him appear as one of Heidegger’s 
predecessors. Subjectivism is a conquest of modem times against rationalist 
metaphysics, which led to the current technology and consequent spiritual poverty. 
With Leibniz, logic begins to lose its syllogistic character and to acquire more 
flexibility. It attenuates its formalism and changes into a search for truth, without 
presuppositions. What makes thought possible is diversity, imbalance, history, 
whose forms are life. The reduction of truth to identity, which is the aim of 
rationalism, destroys thought, which is born out of difference, lack of balance, 


Italian Bookshelf Sr7 


conflict among parts. Rational processes impoverish mental activity by tying it to 
the technical and precise language of formalistic logic. Only poets have kept the 
resourcefulness and fecundity of language alive, following the movement of their 
feelings and refusing to be stifled by the schemes of logical formalism. When 
language is imprisoned in logical form, it loses its creative freedom and vitality. 

Heidegger’s anti-logical and anti-metaphysical positions are sympathetically 
handled and upheld by the author, who relates them to Leibniz’ principle of 
“sufficient reason.” In the passage from objectivistic to subjectivistic philosophy, 
from the universal to the particular, she regards Leibniz as the most important link 
between the traditional and the modern philosophical outlook: he appears to have 
abandoned the idea of a stable concept separated from the perceiving mind (131). 
Although he is a mathematical philosopher, he refuses to place all knowledge under 
the rigorous authority of reason, leaving no room for intuition and creation. If there 
are fixed realities, there are also infinite possibilities; therefore, no one can predict 
the future, which is the outcome of free play open to the unforeseeable. The “truth of 
fact” becomes “the infinite point of departure of a historical narration which, turned 
as it is to intuition, needs no cause or reason” (8). 

While western metaphysics still rested on the principle of “sufficient reason,” 
which offered the ultimate “why” of everything, Heidegger, for his part, sought to 
liberate thought from the necessity of rational explanation, thus undermining 
metaphysics and stressing the self-creative dynamism of being. He would side with 
Heraclitus rather than with Parmenides. There is no reason for historical reality: it 
just happens, and there is no justification for it. 

_ The “why” of things is the central problem of philosophical speculation, and 
why there is something rather than nothing at all is Heidegger’s basic philosophical 
question. Leibniz had explained that God, in His infinite wisdom, preferred being to 
non-being, presence to absence. But for Heidegger God no longer exists; therefore, it 
is impossible to escape the absurdity and gratuity of existence. This implies that 
there is nothing at the beginning. Reality has no “sufficient reason”; it is a human 
creation that cannot objectively be explained. Philosophy, in fact, begins with the 
void left by the disappearance of the ancient gods and the death of the Leibnizian 
God, who stood as a guarantee of the history of human events (134). Historical reality 
is free from the rules and norms dictated by a priori principles. The logic of its 
development is not that of the computer — rigorous and unfaltering. It is instead a 
human activity subject to the failures of human beings. Logical thinking is not the 
conceptualization of individual experiences, but the living development of the 
process of knowledge or self-awareness, in which subjectivity and objectivity are 
provisionally integrated. Formalistic logic thus appears to be inconsistent because it 
operates on a reality in constant flux. Heidegger keeps outside the domain of logical 
formalism; he emphasizes the spontaneous operation through which the mind 
evaluates and transcends and where any appearance of fixity or identity becomes only 
an unsteady point of arrival for knowledge as well as being. 

Viti Cavaliere’s book combines the history of ideas with the critical analysis of 
modem philosophical doctrine. The discussion is conducted with coherence and 
perspicacity at a consistently high philosophical level. The historical character of 
philosophical thought is stressed and so is the historical nature of reality. Traditional 
philosophy is regarded as the science of fixed principles as opposed to the dialectical 


518 Italian Bookshelf 


process of self-creation associated with modern philosophy. All philosophical issues 
stemming from the “great principle” are closely examined in all their implications 
and ramifications. Today’s world seems to be dominated, more than ever, by two 
basic conflicting exigencies: rationalism and irrationalism, which offer a sort of 
Manichean vision of reality. There is, on the one hand, the demand for strict logical 
thinking, leading to the computer, which appears never to err; and on the other, the 
claim of freedom, spontaneity, unfettered thinking. We are faced with the arid logic of 
the technological world on the one side, and human instability, uncertainty, and 
disorderly creation on the other. Absolute reason and irrationality with their 
corollaries represent two opposite poles of the philosophical debate, the echo of 
which is distinctly felt in this book. The work is rigorously structured and cohesively 
developed, with precision of expression and depth of concepts. It contains a wealth 
of ideas, critical observations, and comments, which make for very profitable 
reading. 
Giovanni Gullace 
SUNY-Binghamton 


Giovanna Miceli Jeffries. Lo scrittore, il lavoro e la letteratura: la 
rappresentazione del lavoro nella narrativa di Italo Svevo. Il 
Novecento letterario, 7. Abano Terme: Piovan, 1988. Pp. 127. 


Nonostante la riluttanza, deprecata da Dionisotti, della letteratura italiana a occuparsi 
della realta, non v’é dubbio che a partire dal secondo Ottocento molti autori si sono 
ispirati nelle loro opere a una rappresentazione volta a volta realistica, polemica, 
elegiaca, impegnata, deformante, allusiva, del lavoro e della fatica che esso 
comporta, nonché dell’insoddisfazione o dell’alienazione che esso produce. Basti 
pensare al Verga di “Rosso Melpelo” e di Mastro don Gesualdo, al Pirandello di 
Quaderni di Serafino Gubbio, operatore, oppure al Pavese di Lavorare stanca o al 
Volponi di Memoriale — solo per citare i primi nomi e titoli che vengono in mente. 
Non c’é dubbio che Italo Svevo @, fra gli autori italiani del Novecento, quello che ha 
dedicato maggiore attenzione alla rappresentazione del lavoro (impiegatizio e 
commerciale, non manuale pesante), in tutti i suoi riflessi, dal sociologico allo 
psicologico. Scrittore grande borghese della visione acuta e onnicomprensiva, certo 
Svevo non poteva tralasciare, nel quadro che veniva tracciando della sua classe e della 
sua epoca, una componente tanto fondamentale. 

Mancava finora, nella critica sveviana, un’analisi sistematica e insieme capillare 
di questo tema del lavoro, centrale nell’opera dello scrittore triestino, quale quella 
opportunamente proposta da Miceli Jeffries. Come suggerisce il titolo del suo libro, 
l’autrice esamina la tematica del lavoro nell’opera sveviana soprattutto dal punto di 
vista del rapporto fra lo scrittore e il lavoro da un lato, e del rapporto fra il lavoro e la 
scrittura dall’altro: un’impostazione che esclude un’indagine troppo marcatamente 
sociologica, limitandosi ad alcuni riscontri essenziali nella realta economica e 
industriale dell’Italia fra i due secoli, e si appoggia invece giustamente sulla biografia 
stessa di Svevo, “l’impiegato Schmitz”, come |’ha chiamato Lavagetto in un solido 
saggio, e l’imprenditore Schmitz, come egli si definisce pit volte nell’epistolario 





Italian Bookshelf 519 


(magari con un pizzico di ironica trementina, in una famosa lettera a Montale). E 
un’impostazione che esclude altresi un’attenzione troppo insistita agli aspetti 
ideologici del lavoro (come, per esempio, nelle lucide pagine di Saccone dedicate al 
socialismo di Svevo, o in quelle di Jonard sulla crisi della borghesia). 

Miceli Jeffries esamina la rappresentazione del lavoro nell’opera di Svevo 
soprattutto nei riflessi che esso ha sulla vocazione letteraria dei suoi personaggi, 
dall’Alfonso Nitti di Una vita all’Emilio Brentani di Senilita, dallo Zeno Cosini di La 
coscienza di Zeno al Mario Samigli di “Una burla riuscita” e agli altri vari 
protagonisti dei racconti e dei frammenti che avrebbero potuto formare quello che 
Gabriella Contini ha chiamto “il quarto romanzo” di Svevo. 

Non seguiré Miceli Jeffries nell’analisi minuziosa e quasi sempre sensibile di 
questi personaggi e dei loro atteggiamenti fondamentali verso la vita rilevati 
attraverso i controversi e non facili rapporti con il loro lavoro — dal monotono e 
alienante impiego in banca di Alfonso al fantastico gioco in borsa di Zeno. Mi limito 
a segnalare intuizioni come questa: “nel suo primo romanzo Svevo opera una 
rivoluzione 0, se si vuole, una dissacrazione del linguaggio narrativo tradizionale 
analoga a quella che i ‘crepuscolari’ operano nel linguaggio della poesia”, non 
soltanto “nella scelta di un linguaggio incolore, grigio”, ma anche “nella gamma 
espressiva ordinaria, tecnica, burocratica con cui é descritto dettagliatamente il 
lavoro degli impiegati della banca Maller” (43); o un parallelismo intertestuale come 
quello istituito fra il settimo capitolo della Coscienza e alcuni ‘“‘echi machiavelliani” 
del Principe, con “il tentativo da parte del dilettante Svevo di produrre una specie di 
trattato di scienza commerciale basato sui risultati dell’esperienza del narratore Zeno” 
(76). 

Mi preme piuttosto sottolineare che Miceli Jeffries riesce originale e persuasiva 
specialmente 14 dove insiste sul rapporto fra lavoro e scrittura, fra la responsabilita e 
la serieta del primo e quelle che oggi potremmo chiamare la leggerezza e la giocosita 
della seconda (in particolare pp. 42-48, 83-89, e 108-122) — rapporto che Svevo 
indaga e svolge in particolare attraverso la tematica del dilettantismo. Per cui si pud 
senz’altro sottoscrivere la conclusione di Miceli Jeffries: “In nessun altro scrittore 
moderno si osserva una rappresentazione altrettanto continua e varia nel tema del 
lavoro e della storica dialettica dell’individuo che sembra eludere e 
contemporaneamente affermare la propria natura d’artista, mentre é impegnato a 
vivere e a narrare la realta quotidiana del lavoro e degli affari” (123). In fondo, Svevo 
sbagliava alquanto a chiamare Machiavelli “il sommo fra il dilettanti”: impiegato o 
imprenditore, sempre “‘a distanza di un millimetro” dal suo lavoro e dalla sua vita 
(come é stato detto), il vero, il sommo dilettante era lui. 

Gian-Paolo Biasin 
University of California at Berkeley 


Elisabetta Mondello. La nuova italiana: la donna nella stampa e 
nella cultura del ventennio. Roma: Riuniti, 1987. Pp. 227. 


Elisabetta Mondello’s historiographic project represents the first of what I hope will 
be more differentiated analyses of women’s cultural production during the years of 


520 Italian Bookshelf 


Fascist rule and how it figures in the broader socio-political and historical context. 
Mondello undertakes her exploratory investigation of the women’s press in the 
Regime proceeding from the premise that the complex configurations of women as 
subjects in Italian life, culture, and society during the dictatorship have been the 
object of erasure in prevailing accounts of Italian Fascism. This proposition is amply 
borne out by a reading of such studies as Le interpretazioni del fascismo by Renzo De 
Felice, [1 dibattito sul fascismo by Francesco Perfetti, The Culture of Consent by 
Victoria de Grazia, and Popular Film Culture in Fascist Italy, a more specialized 
analysis by James Hay with nonetheless far-reaching implications. A failure to 
consider gender and the different sites and means of women’s construction of social 
meaning underlies the various critical paradigms these authors adopt. 

To varying degrees, their examinations thus reproduce the master narrative of the 
Fascist Regime, a drama between Mussolini the Father, and his sons, in which 
women, when they do appear, are figured as the objects of male desire, seduced into 
the role of supreme wife and mother. Piero Meldini’s volume Sposa e madre 
esemplare: Ideologia e politica della donna e della famiglia durante il fascismo is a 
notable exception to the dominant phallocentric structure of thought against which 
Mondello writes. The method implicit in Mondello’s articulation of her critical 
problem — to trace the potential contradictions between the official representation 
of the “New Woman,” mass produced by exponents of Fascism, and alternative 
representations of modern women circulating in the women’s press — distinguishes 
her inquiry from the few substantive studies which have thus far attempted to 
reconstruct the female social subject in relation to Italian Fascism. (Mondello’s rich 
bibliographical references do however direct the reader to a growing number of 
articles on this subject.) 

Among such works two critical positions predominate: one undertakes the 
recuperation of women’s different resistances to Fascist ideological determination, an 
essential project to which Jole Calapso contributes in Donne ribelli, for example, 
while the other focuses upon apparatuses soliciting female consent, an approach 
shaped by Maria Antonietta Macciocchi’s problematic work La donna “nera”: 
“consenso” femminile e fascismo. To Mondello’s credit, she neither posits nor 
implies the binary opposition between consent and resistance (or seduction and 
marginalization), which has defined the terms of this debate. Rather, she examines 
the women’s press as a privileged site of female cultural production which, through 
its explicit solicitation of women readers, provides an invaluable discursive system 
for the analysis of gender, address, reception, and female self-representation. From 
the interests, tastes, concerns, and practices of writing and reading documented in a 
broad variety of women’s publications, Mondello delineates different configurations 
of female subjectivity, and the complex, often contradictory relations of Italian 
women to the “New Woman.” She thus restores the imperative distinction between 
female subjectivity and the notion of Woman constructed in Fascist discourses 
addressed to women, which such critics as Macciocchi collapse. 

Mondello excludes from examination clandestine women’s publications 
affiliated with parties of opposition, as well as magazines published in Paris for 
Italian female readers in the thirties, Voce della donna and Noi donne, for instance. 
She concentrates instead on a broad spectrum of women’s magazines and pamphlets, 
encompassing those which had official ties with the Pnf, and many which did not. 


Italian Bookshelf 521 


Almanacco della donna, for instance, addressed housewives, “professioniste e le 
donne che non hanno né tempo né modo per dedicarsi completamente alla casa” (58), 
with the purpose of informing its readers about women’s organizations, their cultural, 
political, and social achievements, as well as specific pursuits of women active in 
journalism, the arts, and other professions. Despite its strong ties with the Fascist 
Party, Rassegna femminile italiana shared many similar topical concerns, and in the 
words of the editor Elisa Majer Rizzioli, represented “la guida del movimento 
femminile italiano e fascista in particolare: ogni suo articolo ha uno scopo preciso e 
di bene sociale, di coltura, di elevazione, soprattutto di fusione dei pit diversi 
elementi femminili” (72). Though Rizzioli openly supported the Pnf and worked 
within the Regime’s media industry, her editorial and publishing practices (the staff 
was comprised almost exclusively of female editors, journalists, critics, and 
contributors) clearly subverted the notion of motherhood as women’s biologically 
determined mission in the State. JI giornale della donna, addressing women who 
worked in small industry, stated its intent was to feature “rubriche interessantissime 
sulle scuole professionali e di economia domestica, sulle piccole industrie e 
sull’artigianato, cronache letterarie ed artistiche su la casa, i lavori, la moda. Si 
occupa di tutte le questioni che interessano la donna e il suo lavoro“ (208), whereas La 
donna nei campi addressed women working in agriculture, and circulated a broad range 
of different female representations in articles and fiction. Lastly, the Catholic 
publication La donna, which had the subtitle “Rivista mensile di lettere, scienze, arti 
e€ movimento sociale femminile,” attempted to negotiate Christian morality and the 
modern female condition, according to Mondello. 

This small sampling points to some of the differences between the official image 
of the “New Woman” as the exemplary wife and mother, and modern Italian women as 
reading and writing subjects in the Regime. However, it hardly does justice to the 
number and variety of women’s publications included in Mondello’s historical 
account. By virtue of the approach and structure Mondello adopts, she avoids writing 
a marginalized or subaltern history of the women’s press in the Fascist State, which 
would reproduce the opposition imposed by Fascist ideologues upon male and female 
cultural production, with the devaluation of the latter. The text consists of five 
chapters, treating such topics as the debate on Woman conducted in Futurist 
discourses, feminist and women’s movements, the ideological origins of the Fascist 
notion of Woman, politically independent women’s publications, weeklies and 
monthlies affiliated with the Pnf, and the Catholic women’s press, while providing a 
substantive analysis of the Almanacco della donna, followed by an appendix on the 
Almanacco annuario della donna italiana. Visual representations reproducing 
magazine covers, fashion pages, comics, and advertisements enhance the arguments 
advanced in the study. Mondello locates the individual publications under 
examination within the tradition and conventions of the women’s press, and 
examines how they figure in the broader discursive field composed of competing 
socio-political beliefs and ideas. Arguing that differences between the “New Woman” 
and Italian modern women continue throughout the dictatorship, though with varying 
intensity, Mondello gives concise information regarding changes in editorial staff, 
political orientation, publishing practices, and textual production, as related to four 
phases marked by shifts in the Fascist conception of Woman’s role in the State, and 
its attendant laws, policies, and attitudes. She identifies these periods as 1919-24 (a 


522 Italian Bookshelf 


“revolutionary” phase), 1925-36 (consolidation of controls), 1937-40 
(liberalization of policies restricting women’s participation in economic and 
political production), and the war years, yet avoids the temptation of using this 
periodization as a rigid organizing or causal principle in her study. 

Throughout her inquiry Mondello gives particular attention to the literary 
section of women’s publications, maintaining that it offers the richest source of 
female representations differing from that of the “Woman-Mother.” The selections 
published in the literary section tell us as much about women readers as they do about 
women writing during Fascism. In response to the reading choices, habits, interests, 
and tastes of women, magazines dedicated substantial space to female literary 
production. Though an exceptional case, the literary review in the Almanacco della 
donna reached 130 pages, informing its readership about literature primarily by 
women writers in Italy and abroad. In this publication as in others, editors published 
bibliographies, critical reviews, biographical sketches, photographs, and fiction, all 
of which circulated cultural models creating different possibilities for female 
identification. Among the many contributors to whom Mondello refers, the 
contemporary reader will recognize such critically acciaimed authors as Sibilla 
Aleramo, Grazia Deledda, Ada Negri, and Gianna Manzini, while learning more about 
such writers as Clarice Tartufari, Maria Luisa Astaldi, and Maria Luisa Fiumi. 
Mondello’s study also reveals some more or less surprising contributions by Luigi 
Pirandello, Massimo Bontempelli, Goffredo Bellonci, and Antonio Borgese. 

Though the scope of Mondello’s groundbreaking study does not permit a detailed 
examination of the thematic concerns and textual practices developed by women 
writing in the Regime, her overview does enable us to expand the parameters of a 
debate which, by focusing on the binary of consent and resistance, has produced 
predictably limited answers. Mondello’s examination of the women’s press as a site 
for the production of social meaning forces us to reconsider our established notion of 
the ideological system operating during Fascist rule, and the discourses, institutions, 
and practices which constituted it. 

Robin Pickering-Iazzi 
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee 


Calvino Revisited. Ed. Franco Ricci. University of Toronto Italian 
Studies 2. Ottowa, Canada: Dovehouse Editions, 1989. 


Calvino Revisited is a collection of essays (published after Calvino’s death in 1985), 
which, according to the editor, serves both as a salute to, and a critical evaluation of, 
one of Italy’s foremost modern authors. In the introduction we are told that the 
“revisited” in the title should be read as “recent” but it also hints at the sense of 
“rereading” which characterizes these essays. This volume is not meant to be an 
introduction to Calvino, but is an opportunity to come into contact with some re- 
considered readings by critics already familiar with Calvino’s work. While the 
collection of essays does not cover the entire corpus of Calvino's writings, the works 
chosen for re-examination are some of Calvino's most significant and complex 
works, such as If on a Winter's Night a Traveler, Cosmicomiche, Palomar, and 


Italian Bookshelf 523 


Invisible Cities. 

The main critical slant on Calvino is without question postmodern: six of the ten 
critical essays use postmodern or deconstructionist vocabulary and theoretical 
concepts. The editor, Franco Ricci, has managed, however, to ensure that the essays 
are not monotone; structuralist and semiotic essays form a counterpoint to the 
postmodern readings, as do the historical overviews and the rather personal 
introductory essay by Renato Barilli. 

William Weaver, known for his Calvino translations, contributes an interview 
with Calvino, while J. R. Woodhouse and JoAnn Cannon offer comprehensive 
biographical overviews of Calvino's life and works. These overviews are useful not 
only to a student new to Calvino but to anyone looking for a good general 
introduction to use as course material. The remaining essays analyze particular works 
and relate them to Calvino's overall literary project, his role in Italy's literary 
history, and his contribution to postmodern fiction in general. 

Angela M. Jeannet’s essay forms an illuminating complement to the 
introductory essays, in that she provides a clear overview and analysis of a number of 
Calvino’s theoretical essays, tracing his development from his early years to his 
final works, with an emphasis on the collection Una pietra sopra. 

Rocco Capozzi rereads Cosmicomiche as evidence that Calvino went through a 
transitional period between his early, engagé stance of the political writer and his 
later, combinatorial one. In this transitional period, Capozzi argues, Calvino still 
maintained to some extent the political role of the author, but he no longer saw it as a 
static position. Changing times called for different authorial attitudes, which Capozzi 
sees embodied in Cosmicomiche. 

Revision and narrative underlie Kathryn Hume’s essay on La memoria del mondo, 
a collection of both old and new stories. She sees an underlying structure to the 
placement of the new stories and the effect that placement has on the overall structure 
of the book. Her argument is that its organization reveals something about Calvino’s 
interests at the time, such as the cultural narratives we use to order our experience. It 
should also help us to reread Cosmicomiche, since La memoria del mondo must be 
considered a collection of cosmicomical narratives. 

A valuable addition is the feminist reading offered by Teresa de Lauretis, who 
makes some very interesting remarks on gender divisions in [f on a Winter's Night a 
Traveler, and shows that despite his best efforts Calvino could not fully escape the 
very conventions of the male reader/audience he apparently was trying both to 
question and to avoid. Wiley Feinstein's essay on the same work takes an altogether 
different tact and analyzes the text from a formalist, structure-oriented perspective. He 
comes to some interesting conclusions on the relation of form to meaning which 
seem to contradict the views of de Lauretis. Ricci is to be applauded for his decision to 
provide different and conflicting perspectives, so that the student of Calvino is not 
left with an undifferentiated impression after reading the various essays. 

Marilyn Schneider's essay on Palomar and Invisible Cities examines the 
relationship of eros and ratio, subjectivity and objectivity, and probes the use of an 
erotic code which governs the structure of the text as well as partly determines the 
relation of the reader to the text. Both Gian Paolo Biasin and Franco Ricci play with 
the different narrative models and textual depths Calvino employed. Biasin gives us 
an interpretation of Palomar which is similar to the reading Schneider offers, but with 


524 Italian Bookshelf 


a greater emphasis on the alternative types of vision and perceptual structures. Ricci 
demonstrates the relationship between visual images and the words Calvino used to 
depict, and shows that this relationship is in part what determines Calvino’s search 
and art. 

Warren F. Motte Jr. gives a fine reading of the Castle of Crossed Destinies from 
the perspective of play. Calvino’s combinatorics, his emphasis on narrative frame 
and structure, his games of fiction are all examined and related to an underlying 
notion of deliberate construction. The unexpected combinations and the seemingly 
incoherent juxtapositions are governed by a strict system of rules, but rules of a game 
which accounts for the sense of play Motte identifies. 

The only disappointing essay in this fine collection is that of Paul Perron. 
Overly reliant on a single, highly restricted semiotic perspective based on Greimas 
and Courtés, this reading of Palomar devotes just a fourth of its length to a discussion 
of Calvino, but inexplicably explains to us the Greek origins of “theory,” while 
issuing highly complex operational semio-narrative statements on the nature of 
narrative and the erotic with little support (see for example the footnote on 
pornography which does nothing to explain its economic, historical, sociological, 
or even erotic elements). Unfortunately, this essay mainly obscures where it tries to 
illuminate, and the reader interested in Palomar is advised to look elsewhere. 

Michael Freedberg 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


Giovanni Giudici: Fortezza. I poeti dello specchio. Milano: 
Mondadori, 1990. Pp. 93. 


Giovanni Giudici, nato a Le Grazie (La Spezia) nel 1924, si colloca tra quei poeti 
liguri che hanno un ruolo essenziale nel nostro Novecento, distinti, come scrisse 
Sapegno nella sua Storia letteraria delle Regioni d'Italia, dalla “concretezza scabra del 
linguaggio, la faticata e scontrosa maturazione del discorso lirico raggiunta 
eliminando e soffocando tutte le facili e odiate effusioni del sentimento” (Firenze, 
1968, p. 86), oltre che da “una chiusa tradizione di valori etici, con i suoi segreti 
fermenti anarchici e la sua costretta ansia di ribellione”. 

Il suo ingresso decisivo tra i grandi esponenti della poesia italiana é segnato nel 
1965 dalla pubblicazione de La vita in versi nella collana “Lo specchio” di 
Mondadori. II titolo sottolinea un tratto che restera fondamentale di Giudici, 
“]’attenzione prestata al vissuto quotidiano” (C. Venturi, La poesia dopo l’ermetismo, 
Bologna, 1981, p. 183). Segue una lunga serie di raccolte — tutte edite da Mondadori 
ne “Lo specchio” — dove si riafferma il rifiuto del lirismo e la complementare difesa 
dell’ironia: Autobiologia, 1969; O Beatrice, 1972; Il male dei creditori, 1977; e nel 
1981 JI ristorante dei morti, che sviluppa il tema onirico gia apparso in 
Autobiologia, confermandone l’orientarsi in direzione opposta al surrealismo, verso 
una pill acuta percezione del reale. Del 1982 un volume di traduzioni, il cui titolo 
traduce liberamente un verso di Donne: Addio, proibito piangere (Einaudi); quindi, 
nell’84, sempre per “Lo specchio” di Mondadori, Lume dei tuoi misteri. Nel 1986 esce 
Salutz: “Certe allusioni alla convenzione letteraria” — leggiamo nel risvolto — 


Italian Bookshelf 525 


“altro non sono che procedimenti stilistici volti a condurre all’assolutezza dell’ arte 
una materia fin troppo sangue e lagrime, fin troppo creaturale”. Nel 1989 Einaudi 
pubblica Prove del teatro, una raccolta di poesie inedite dal ’53 all’88. 

Infine, nel marzo del 1990, la raccolta Fortezza. L’ autore avverte che il perno é la 
sequenza centrale che da il titolo al volume, e che “la sequenza ‘Frate Tommaso’ dovra 
esserne considerata occasionale proiezione e complemento” (nota preliminare). 
Tuttavia, le tre incisioni di Vittorio Bellini che inquadrano il libro risultano tutte 
leggibili in chiave campanelliana. La prima — libro aperto, penna pennino 
calamaio, fascio di stecchi, perpendicolare, raccolto in fiocco, come una primordiale 
veneziana — ci suggerisce le varie scritture del Frate in cattivita quanto la varieta di 
componenti di cui si compone la prima sequenza di Fortezza — “Memoria” — che 
l’incisione introduce. La seconda — faccia ad un’inferriata: inferriata a croce, di 
segreta — @ premessa alla sequenza centrale “Fortezza”, i cui diversi reclusi in qualche 
modo richiamano tutti il Frate (e il suo doppio, il Poeta). Con Frate Tommaso poi 
inequivocabilmente si chiude ]’ultima sequenza a lui intitolata e insieme il libro, in un 
ritratto speculare: lo scorcio di Bellini, i versi di Giudici: “Oh si, un po’ ingrassato / 
Si, un po’ buffo nel correre / Ma che bellezza quel bianco e nero dell’abito / Sulla 
verde erba / E il lanciar su il berretto nell’azzurro / E riacchiapparlo al volo voi Cane 
del Signore” (82). 

Si pud cominciare di qui, dall’ultima pagina, quasi fosse un libro questo da 
leggere da destra a sinistra, riaffiorato abito di sua “segreta gente ebrea / Tra monte e 
mare in salvo battezzata” (5). Si pud incominciare dall’ultima pagina, dove 
l’immagine @ chiarissima, per decifrarlo. Ma che vuol dire veramente decifrare, che 
importa a noi di trovare, che cosa é possibile trovare che ci porti pit addentro in quei 
grumi che sono le brevi composizioni della raccolta? Si ha davvero da scioglier 
grumi, sangue di San Gennaro — o non sono forse essi anche nocchi di rami, come in 
Montale, che a sgrovigliarli si sgretolano, e a noi si richiede solo di guardarli bene, 
da vicino, a lungo con attenzione, fino a coglierne senza pil: abbagli forma e colore, a 
riconoscere cioé atmosfera e linguaggio? II] linguaggio del Giudici di sempre, la 
“scrittura piana e comunicativa” de La vita in versi (Venturi, citato), arricchita di tutta 
la sapienza non pil dissimulata di Salutz: un parlato asprigno, che non rifugge da 
vélute solarmente dispiegate — “Ma che bellezza quel bianco e nero dell’abito” (82) 
— prontamente riassorbite nel grottesco leggero di quel salto di bambino: “E il 
lanciar su il berretto nell’azzurro”, o magari di cane “E riacchiapparlo al volo” — 
goffo nel corpo grassoccio avvolto in tonaca. “Gli esiti pit notevoli” - aveva scritto 
Venturi — si raggiungono “la dove il poeta riesce a ironizzare” (183). 

Nel componimento che precede (81), come in Salutz, richiami célti di cadenza e 
immagine, tutti assorbiti e rivissuti. Nei versi centrali, endecasillabi, un principio di 
canto (“Amore viene e va spartisce i muri / Ristora il fiore al quasi suo morire’”), 
quindi la sorpresa, come in una chiusa petrarchesca, ma tutta Seicento nella figura 
della carne lacerata e del suo balsamo di natura/bellezza: “Come le vostre piaghe / 
Acqua che in esse scorse dal giardino / Dove entravamo docili e sicuri / A un giro della 
sola nostra chiave”. Figura, metrica, sintassi, preziose a un grado estremo, ma 
distillate fino all’ultima purezza. Un settenario e due endecasillabi ad accenti 
“regolari”, poi il verso finale dal ritmo sgocciolato, di sigillo. 

Continuando a leggere all’indietro, il contrasto delle oscene segrete — “E il 
puzzo e il gocciare dei muri / E ai labbri vostri carezze di pipistrello” (80) — col 


526 Italian Bookshelf 


limpido “desio di sole” (le misture linguistiche della sequenza di Frate Tommaso 
mimano lo stile del Frate), con lo stridente riso “dieci cavalli bianchi rispondendo” 
“inchiodato al giaciglio di tormenti” (78). Cosi il contrasto tra una cadenza allungata 
dall’enjambement e la sincope dei quinari finali: “Legni taglienti” (78). “Dura 
innocenza” (77): uno spoglio, inerme consegnarsi, allentato un attimo in un accenno 
di abbandono, bruscamente frenato da uno scontroso ritrarsi — tale il ritmo, tale 
l’atmosfera, di Fortezza. 

Fin dal primo componimento della serie "Frate Tommaso," il secco quinario 
“dura innocenza” serra insieme il Frate e il Poeta “nostra — mia e vostra” (77) come, 
pid elusivo, il verso sigillo dell’intera raccolta: “Perché fallisce il desiderio degli 
empi” (82). L’identificazione é@ ribadita all’inizio, appunto, dell’ultima poesia: 
“Finalmente bambino / Insieme a voi giocare sul prato di Parigi” (82). 
Identificazione: mettersi interamente al posto dell’altro — in questo, diceva 
Berenson, consiste il genio. Ma in Giudici la coscienza dell’alterita non @ mai 
bruciata: “Ben che lo so quanta vi é differenza / Tra il raccontarlo e l’esserci” (56). 

Con questo verso siamo gia alla terza sequenza: Giudici ci ha preparato 
un’immagine/ponte, che congiunge la poesia n. 35 di “Fortezza” (““Suo esserci e suo 
gelo / Sua nerezza nel blu del muto cielo / . . . / Un seme di sventure”, 64) al n. I di 
Frate Tommaso (“Specchiata immenso nero |’altra faccia / D’una funesta luna: / Ci 
apparecchia disastri” 77). 

Del termine fortezza, avverte Forti (sulla fascetta), si hanno da tener presenti 
“tutte le diverse sfaccettature, anche teologiche, mistiche e soprattutto carcerarie”. 
Tutte certo si addicono al Frate, e al suo doppio, il Poeta. Fortezza é innanzitutto 
carcere: carcere/tomba: “Starsene li murato. . . / Stringere insieme un senzaterra 
senzatempo / E dove posa gli occhi, che cosa scopre / Nelle croste dei muri / O quelle 
trine d’aria, gli umori” (56); carcere/tomba/letto solitario: “Nel letto che gli é dimora 
/.../1o qui solo — qui solo” (40); “Mia solezza — mia / Amaritudo senectus” (34); 
carcere tomba/ventre di balena — quel momento sempre ritornante della parabola 
figurale di Giudici che Carlo Ossola aveva sottolineato nel suo bel saggio 
introduttivo a Prove del teatro (xii-xiii). “Non ero Giona sepolto nell’umido/respiro 
dello squalo” (Stazione di Pisa); “‘Portaci sacco infinito infinitesimi giona” (Lume dei 
tuoi misteri). 

Certo pit’ delle muffe e del gocciolare dei muri fanno orrore i supplizi della 
prigione interiore: “E lui di essa sia primo architetto — / Prigione non nel senso 
stretto / La sua pit’ che del corpo / Dell’intelletto” (53). Viene ancora fatto di citare 
Ossola: “E un ductus che permette il salmodiare humilis dell’orazione, arginata in una 
salda tradizione metricoliturgica . . . l’ordinario appunto della memoria di ognuno” 
(saggio citato, X). 

Fredda ala di pipistrello, si stacca dal verso la paura. Della duplice “segreta”: 
quella dei muri che sgocciolano lagrime putride, serrata intorno dagli altri — che 
braccano senza pieta, raggiungono da ogni pertugio, si incarnano in animali 
consueti, trasformando unghie di gatti, denti de cane, in tenaglie — “zanne, grinfie 
che straziano” —, e, peggio, melliflui ti penetrano dentro, ti fanno condannare da te: 
a quel bozzolo di carcere dell’intelletto da cui evadere non é@ dato. Allora, non c’é 
salvezza? Come conquistare quell’altra accezione di fortezza — virtih — “resistere” 
“persistere”’? 

Spiragli ci sono; promesse. Lei: “asilo in questa infinita paura 


99 66 


espansi placidi 


Italian Bookshelf A | 


seni” (F. 15), o il vino, o il sogno, che pud farsi incubo ma anche visione. Tutti, 
certo, spade a doppio taglio: “Vi prego che mi lasciate visitanti visioni” (66). Come 
la speranza, che ti forza a stare in vita. Quel che é@ chiaro @ l’obbligo della fortezza, 
virtt, — resistere bisogna, persistere (che non necessariamente significa vivere). 
L’orrore, dicevo, la paura: “Lente derive scuotono i corpi della paura” (30); “Tra 
veglia e sonno esile strada al tremare” (35); “di te farmi asilo in questa infinita paura” 
(43). Paura della prigione/tomba, esterna e, pil, interna; della prigione/gabbia. 
Paura/orrore moltiplicati dal moltiplicarsi della vulnerabilita per 1’identificazione: 
“Si le guardavo lassi appese le gabbie / Giustizia delle Chiese — guardavo me / Non 
gia prono qui dentro / Ma al sole pioggia e neve / Grigio del puro gelo / Accecato dal 
cielo scarnendomi come voi / Capi dell’espiata rivolta: / O quattro secoli dopo per pit 
di un mese / In altra gabbia a Pisa / Eretta sull’arso prato / Il Maestro dagli occhi di 
turchese / Ludibrio del soldato” (7—8 gennaio 1989, 51). Da quelle gabbie Giudici era 
tormentato da pit di un anno. Nella prima sequenza del libro intitolata “Memoria”, le 
cui poesie “‘potranno assumersi come note di un preludio o sondaggi in qualche misura 
collegabili a . . . precedenti esperienze” (Giudici, nota premessa a Fortezza): “Di 
primavera in Miinster contemplando / I] mistero dei tre capi anabattisti / Lasst le 
gabbie vuote sul campanile” (23 aprile 1988, p. 18). Orrore / paura — attrazione della 
morte; morte/riposo “da tiite’ste patie” (22), ma anche oggetto di infinito orrore: 
“Dove il viaggio é orrore dell’ignoto” (21): il cerchio si richiude sul Giudici come gia 
su Leopardi. Lo stesso, si é detto, della speranza: “Sola speranza oh lieve / Che di noi 
fa la vita trasmutarsi / Senza sole disfarsi come neve / Vilta tepore fuoco di cui arsi” 
(7). Quel che resta nella sua “dura innocenza”, incancellabile, inaffondabile, é il 
bambino, il “fante”: da pagina 1, e di fronte alla morte: “Gli domandavo se era vero / 
di un bell’abito bianco e nero”, fino a quella poesia VI della sequenza “Frate 
Tommaso”: “Finalmente bambino insieme a voi giocare”, che ha tutto 1’aspetto di un 
nuovo principio. 
Margherita Pieracci Harwell 
University of Illinois, Chicago 


Joseph Tusiani, La Parola difficile. Autobiografia di un_ italo- 
americano, Fasano (Bari): Schena Editore, 1988. Pp. 407. 


This first volume of a projected autobiographical trilogy by the well-known poet and 
translator (Part II, La parola nuova, and Part II] La parola antica) immediately 
impresses its reader as an important historical document rather than as another 
moving account of the life in the Little Italies such as Mario Puzo's The Fortunate 
Pilgrim and Jerre Mangione's Mount Allegro. The reason for this must be found, I 
suppose, in the fact that Joseph Tusiani, whom Paolo Giordano in a recent study had 
called “a reluctant immigrant,” started his “American” life in an utterly a-typical 
fashion — as a young man with a doctorate from an Italian university, ready to begin 
his literary career in the new land of which he already knew both history and 
language. This book, however, is about all that the author did not know of America 
(and Americans) when he landed in the magical “America ricca” where his father had 
landed twenty-three years earlier, six months before the birth of his first child. It 
deals, that is, with the great personages who influenced, if not deeply shaped, Joseph 


528 Italian Bookshelf 


Tusiani's intellectual growth: Arturo Giovannitti, the Socialist poet whose poem 
“The Walker” belongs to the history of our Italian immigration; Francis Winwar, the 
most renowned Italian-American female writer whose admirable translation of 
Boccaccio's Decameron was to serve as a model of stylistic elegance in all of 
Tusiani's works of translation; Giuseppe Antonio Borgese, the great literary critic 
whose last American activity is thoroughly and movingly documented in these pages; 
and Gerald Groveland Walsh, the Irish Dante scholar whose faithfully recorded words 
shed ample light on the arduous Irish-Italian relationship in the first decades of this 
century. The entire post-La Guardia period is reconstructed through personal 
reminiscences of artists such as Attilio Piccirilli, Onorio Ruotolo, and, of course, the 
same Giovannitti, whom Joseph Tusiani, unable to utter the “difficult word” (Papa) in 
the presence of his real parent, easily called “my spiritual father.” And there is more 
— the painful account of the turbulent years of the McCarthy “police state” in 
America, of which the author's father was almost a pathetic victim; the personal 
encounter with inveterate racial prejudices even in the academic world (“Dear 
colleague . . . being an Italian. . . do you carry a knife?”; the detailed and candid 
narration of the linguistic obstacles that a young man from Italy has to overcome in 
order to be the first “American” poet to win the prestigious Greenwood Prize of the 
Poetry Society of England, and, at the same time, become the first Italian-born vice 
president of the Poetry Society of America and director of the Catholic Poetry of 
America. 

Aside from this “historical” importance, Tusiani's book deals with the life of the 
Little Italy of Belmont Avenue in the Bronx. The description of the Arthur Avenue 
Market is vivid and humorous, whereas that of the funeral of a poor Italian young lady 
who had married a Jewish engineer is heart-rending and tragic. Many are, indeed, the 
passages that, because of their content and highly poetic prose, could make excellent 
anthology pieces: the chapter on the birth of “Maichino” (VII); the chapter on the 
mother's preparation for the U.S. citizenship test (XV); the “velatura del fico” (206), 
which tells the subtle elegy of a tree that becomes a symbol of the immigrant’s 
attachment to his native land; the tragedy of “Qui non si parla il maledetto inglese” 
(81), words written over the door of an old man whose utmost failure in America has 
its consequences felt in a hospital ward; and other such examples of Joseph Tusiani's 
poetic sensitivity. 

La Parola difficile has already received two literary awards — the “Renoir” and 
the “Europa Sud” prizes — and has been chosen by the R.A.I. for a dramatic 
presentation in ten installments. It is easy to predict that, with the two forthcoming 
volumes of his trilogy, Joseph Tusiani will give us a literary saga of imposing and 
memorable significance. 

Maria Pastore Passaro 
Central Connecticut State University 


Federico Fellini. La strada. Ed. Peter Bondanella and Manuela Gieri. 
New Brunswick: Rutgers UP, 1987. Pp. 270. 


According to the University Film Producers Association, a continuity script is “a 
shooting script, ready for production, containing all visual and audio specifications, 


Italian Bookshelf 529 


subject only to the decisions of the director.” The UFPA, of course, had American 
production techniques in mind when it relegated the “decisions of the director” to so 
minor a status in its definition. In Italian film production, and especially in the work 
of Fellini, the term director must be replaced by filmmaker, indeed by auteur, and the 
authorial decisions made on the set and in the cutting room must be given precedence 
over all other pre-established specifications. For it is in the transformation from 
written screenplay to finished film that Fellini's alchemy takes place— an alchemy 
that derives both from his improvisational genius during the shooting and his 
manipulation of the final editorial process. Thus a continuity script, for a Fellini 
film, must describe the work after-the-fact — it can have no prescriptive, a priori 
influence over the man whose cinematic poetry arises from his freedom to react 
spontaneously and intuitively to his filmmaking conditions. 

And poetry it is, as Peter Bondanella and Manuela Gieri cogently argue in this 
essential guide to viewing La strada. Borrowing Pasolini’s term “il cinema di poesia,” 
the editors aptly title their introductory essay “Fellini’s La strada and the Cinema of 
Poetry,” thus directing the reader’s attention to the poetics of Fellini’s filmmaking 
approach. Poetry becomes the theme of this entire volume, from the editors’ 
description of the creative process, to the anecdotal accounts of the film’s 
production, to the ideological stir it occasioned among 1950’s intellectuals, to the 
reviews and extended commentaries of contemporary critics. Thus Bondanella and 
Gieri speak of the oneiric imagistic beginnings of the works which are then “replaced 
by equally subjective and personal poetic images as the film takes clearer shape” 
(16). The editors incisively describe Fellini’s signifying practice, which is neither 
discursive nor dramatic but metaphoric, as he juxtaposes images of landscapes that 
act as objective correlatives for Gelsomina’s inner state (cf. especially p. 13). 
Colleagues speak of poetry in their anecdotal accounts of their collaboration with 
Fellini. Thus Ennio Flaiano insists on Fellini’s need to “find a balance between the 
real world of the road and the poetic world of his hypotheses” (187). Moraldo Rossi 
recalls “that poetic world flowing from the happy blending of both realistic and 
fantastic elements” (188) and Giulietta Masina speaks of her interpretation of 
Gelsomina in a language rich with poetic resonance. 

The verdict on La strada’s poetics was by no means unanimous, however. The 
intellectual Left, led by Guido Aristarco, saw in the film a mysticism and 
neo-Catholicism which countered the politically committed tendencies of postwar 
Italian realist cinema. Thus La strada became an unwitting protagonist in an 
ideological drama of considerable intensity in Italian popular culture of the 
mid-1950’s. Bondanella and Gieri have well documented the controversy surrounding 
La strada and its place in the evolution of film culture in the crucial years following 
the decline of neorealism. 

The selection of reviews which hailed La strada’s release in the U.S. and England 
offers an interesting, and sometimes hilarious glimpse into the history of taste. The 
extended commentaries include a traditional, deeply sensitive and stimulating, 
appreciation of Fellini’s poetics by Peter Harcourt, and a tightly argued, though for 
me counter-intuitive, reading of the protagonists’ existential progress by Frank 
Burke. Of particular interest to the student of La strada are the notes to the screenplay, 
which not only explain obscure references but also show where the continuity script 
differs significantly from the shooting script by including scenes absent from the 


530 Italian Bookshelf 


final version that may enrich our understanding of its characters and themes. 

To add to the usefulness of the volume, the editors have included a capsule 
biography of Fellini as well as a filmography and selected bibliography. This 
carefully prepared text will become indispensable to any serious study of a work 
which is itself a monument of film culture both in Italy and abroad. 

Millicent Marcus 
University of Texas at Austin 


Books Received 


Antonioni, Michelangelo, director. L’avventura. Ed. Seymour Chatman and 
Guido Fink. New Brunswick: Rutgers UP, 1989. Pp. 229. 

Aricé, Santo L., ed. Contemporary Women Writers in Italy. A Modern 
Renaissance. Amherst: The U of Massachusetts P, 1990. Pp. 238. 

Barilli, Renato. Rhetoric. Tr. Giuliana Menozzi. Theory amd History of 
Literature 63. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1989. Pp. 164. 

Barariski, Zygmunt G. and Robert Lumley, eds. Culture and Conflict in Postwar 
Italy: Essays on Mass and Popular Culture. New York: St. Martin’s Press, 
1990. Pp. 346. 

Beatrice del Sera. Amor di virtd. Commedia in cinque atti (1548). Ac. di Elissa 
Weaver. Ravenna: Longo, 1990. Pp. 286. 

Boiardo, Matteo Maria. Orlando innamorato. Tr. with an introd. and notes by 
Charles Stanley Ross. For. Allen Mandelbaum. English verse ed. Anne 
Finnigan. Berkeley: U of California P, 1989. Pp. xii + 891. 

Bonadeo, Alfredo. Mark of the Beast. Death and Degradation in the Literature of 
the Great War. Lexington: The UP of Kentucky, 1989. Pp. 172. 


Carozza, Davy A. Petrarch’s Secretum with Introduction, Notes, and Critical 
Anthology. American Univesity Studies. Ser. 17, Classical Languages and 
Literature, vol. 7. New York: Peter Lang, 1989. Pp. 284. 

Cavalcanti, Giovanni. Nuova opera. (Chronique florentine inédite du XV siécle.) 
Edition critique, introduction et notes par Antoine Monti. Centre 
Interuniversitaire de recherche sur la Renaissance italienne 17. Paris: 
Université de la Sorbonne Nouvelle, 1989. Pp. 275. 

Cavallini, Giorgio. Studi e note su Foscolo e Leopardi. Biblioteca di cultura 
409. Roma: Bulzoni, 1990. Pp. 213. Lire 26.000. 

Cecchetti, Giovanni, ed. Giacomo Leopardi. Proceedings of the Congress held at 
the University of California, Los Angeles, November 10-11, 1988. Special 
ed. of Forum Italicum, Leopardi supplement, 1990. Pp. 176. 

Chandler, S. Bernard. Saggi sul romanzo italiano dell’Ottocento. Napoli: 
Federico e Ardia, 1989. Pp. 142. 

Donna. Women in Italian Culture. Ed. Ada Testaferri. University of Toronto 
Italian Studies 7. Ottawa: Dovehouse Edtions, 1989. Pp. 316. 

Fido, Franco. Le muse perdute e ritrovate. II divenire dei generi letterari fra Sette 
e Ottocento. Firenze: Vallecchi, 1989. Pp. 218. 

Franz, David. Festum Voluptatis. A Study of Renaissance Erotica. Columbus: 
Ohio State UP, 1989. Pp. 275. 

Gambara, Veronica. Veronica Gambara e la poesia del suo tempo nell’ Italia 
settentrionale. Atti del convegno (Brescia-Correggio, 17-19 ottobre 1985) a 


532 Books Received 


c. di C. Bozzetti, P. Gibellini, E. Sandal. Firenze: Olschki, 1989. Pp. 442. 
Gioia, Dana and Michael Palma. New Italian Poets: A Bilingual Anthology of 
Influential Italian Writers. Brownsville, OR: Three Oaks Farm, 1991. Pp. 
385. 
Hirdt, Willi. Wie Dante das Jenseits erfahrt. Bonn: Bouvier Verlag, 1989. 


Iannucci, Amilcare. Dante Today. Special ed. of Quaderni d’italianistica vol. 
10.1-2 (1989). Pp. 418. 

L’italiano come lingua seconda in Italia e all’estero. Atti del convegno 
organizzato dai ministeri affari esteri e pubblica istruzione. Roma, 1-4 
marzo 1982. Supplemento alla rivista Vita italiana - Documenti e 
informazioni 3.40 (1982). Roma: Presidenza del consiglio dei ministri. 
Direzione generale delle informazioni, dell’ editoria e della proprieta letteraria, 
artistica e scientifica, 1982. Pp. 500. 

Jason, Kathrine, ed. and trans. Name and Tears and Other Stories: Forty years of 
Italian Fiction. The Graywolf Short Stories Fiction. Saint Paul: Graywolf 
Press, 1990. Pp. 234. 


Lectura Dantis Newberryana. Ed. Paolo Cherchi and Antonio C. Mastrobuono. 
Vol. 2. Lectures presented at The Newberry Library, Chicago, Ill., 1985-87. 
Evanston: Northwestern UP, 1990. Pp. 186. 


Luperini, Romano. L’allegoria del moderno. Saggi sull’ allegorismo come forma 
artistica del moderno e come metodo di conoscenza. Roma: Editori Riuniti, 
1990. Pp. 352. 

Maiorino, Giancarlo. The Cornucopian Mind and the Baroque Unity of the Arts. 
University Park: The Pennsylvania State UP, 1990. Pp. 210. 

Manzoni, Alessandro. J promessi sposi. A c. di Ezio Raimondi e Luciano 
Bottoni. Milano: Principato, 1988. Pp. 912. 

Marti, Mario. J tempi dell’ ultimo Leopardi (con una “giunta” su Leopardi e 
Virgilio). Humanitas, Collezione di Studi e testi di scienze umane a cura di 
Mario Marti e Gino Rizzo, 4. Galatina: Congedo, 1988. Pp. 177. 

Matteo, Sante, Cinzia Donatelli Noble and Madison U. Sowell, eds. Jtalian 
Echoes in the Rocky Mountains. Papers from the 1988 Annual Conference 
of the American Association for Italian Studies Held in Provo, Utah. Provo: 
The American Association for Italian Studies and the David M. Kennedy 
Center for International Studies at Brigham Young University, 1990. Pp. 
226. 

Mastrobuono, Antonio C. Dante’s Journey of Sanctification. Washington, D.C.: 
Regnery Gateway, 1990. Pp. 279. 

Moving in Measure. Essays in Honour of Brian Meloney. Ed. Judith Bryce and 
Doug Thompson. Hull: Hull UP, 1989. Pp. 242. 

Petrarch’s Triumphs: Allegory and Spectacle. Ed. Konrad Eisenblicher and 


Books Received 533 


Amilcare A. Iannucci. University of Toronto Studies 4. Ottawa: Dovehouse, 
1990. Pp. 420. 

Pozzato, Maria Pia, ed. L’idea deforme. Interpretazioni esoteriche di Dante. 
Introd. Umberto Eco. Pref. Alberto Asor Rosa. Milano: Bompiani, 1989. 

Raimondi, Ezio. Le poetiche della modernita in Italia. L’identita del Novecento 
nell’ inquieta ricerca delle avanguardie, dal futurismo al postmoderno. 
Milano: Garzanti, 1990. Pp. 131. 

Re, Lucia. Calvino and the Age of Neorealism: Fables of Estrangement. 
Stanford: Stanford UP, 1990. Pp. 420. 

Santoro, Mario. Ariosto e il Rinascimento. Napoli: Liguori, 1989. Pp. 384. 

Santoro, Marco. II libro a stampa. I primordi. Napoli: Liguori, 1990. Pp. 410. 

Shapiro, Marianne. The Poetics of Ariosto. Detroit: Wayne State UP, 1988. Pp. 
278. 

Studi di italianistica in onore di Giovanni Cecchetti. Ed. Paolo Cherchi and 
Michelangelo Picone. II portico, Biblioteca di lettere e arti 86. Ravenna: 
Longo, 1988. Pp. 318. 

Studi secenteschi. Rivista annuale a c. di Uberto Limentani e Martino Capucci. 
Vol. 30 (1989). Pp. 314. 

Tamburri, Anthony Julian. Of Saltimbanchi and Incendiari. Aldo Palazzeschi and 
Avant-Gardism in Italy. Rutherford: Fairleigh Dickinson UP; London: 
Associated UP, 1990. Pp. 229. 

Tasso, Torquato. Rinaldo. Edizione critica basata sulla seconda edizione del 1570 
con le varianti della princeps (1562). A c. di Michael Sherberg. Ravenna: 
Longo, 1990. Pp. 334. 

Vallone, Aldo. Strutture e modulazioni nella Divina commedia. Firenze: 
Olschki, 1990. Pp. 225. 

VIA. Voices in Italian Americana. A Literary and Cultural Review. Ed. Anthony 
J. Tamburri and Paolo A. Giordano. Vol. 1 (1990). Pp. 197. 

Zangrilli, Franco. Linea pirandelliana nella narrativa contemporanea. Ravenna: 
Longo, 1990. Pp. 221. 


Fredi Chiappelli 
In Memory 
January 24, 1921 — March 22, 1990 


On the one hand, it’s hard to write this because it’s hard to say goodbye to Fredi, 
and writing about him makes his death seem all the more final. On the other 
hand, I am grateful for the opportunity to remember him from the very personal 
perspective of student, collaborator, and friend. 

Meeting Fredi, or Dr. Chiappelli as I used to call him, for my first 
appointment with the graduate student advisor in 1978 was an intimidating and 
unforgettable experience. As he rose from his chair to greet me, the force of his 
imposing physical and intellectual personality filled the room. The unexpectedly 
soft, Florentine inflected voice, however, immediately quelled all fears. As I 
realized that day and would later be reminded every time I heard that voice in the 
following years, Fredi Chiappelli was a very shy man, whose shyness was only 
overcome by his great desire to communicate something of value: to teach, to 
orchestrate a multifaceted cultural project, or to tell a good story, one that always 
had a moral. Fredi, it’s true, had little time for chit-chat. In the first place, he 
wasn’t very good at it, and in the second place he hated wasting time. He 
preferred brief, intense exchanges in which the subject of the meeting or lesson 
had been clearly defined and pondered by the different parties beforehand. The 
discussion that ensued was always rich with debate, surprise, challenge, 
disagreement and reconciliation. Fredi loved to negotiate and actually “barter” 
intellectually in the best Florentine sense of the word. He loved to think and 
force other people to think, often taking a provocative position that would spark 
arash of opposition followed by an exciting session of brainstorming. Nowhere 
was this more evident than in his teaching. 

For three hours during his weekly seminars he would bend, shape, pound 
and raise our consciousness to the level of the text. Through his dramatic and 
enlightening presentation of single lines or strophes of Petrarch, Ariosto and 
Tasso, even first-time readers of these texts came away with a love and a 
reverence for these works that invited us to read, reread, and above all, read well. 
Fredi Chiappelli was a great reader and this, I believe, was one of the greatest 
lessons he imparted to his students: his visible humility before great texts. As 
the weeks and months passed, we, all of us, became readers in his class. By the 
end of the semester, Fredi would be as eager to hear our readings as we were to 
hear his. And he never gave up, not even on the most mediocre among us, for he 
truly believed that lack of excellence was due to lack of desire, not lack of 
intelligence. 

Fredi Chiappelli possessed both desire and intelligence in overwhelming 
proportions. From 1980-1983 when I worked for him as a project coordinator at 


the UCLA Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies that he directed, I had 
the chance to see his intelligence and desire at work on a day to day basis and in 
a variety of facets. At the office, as in the classroom, Fredi was a team player. 
Initially he would direct us, but as each person’s expertise developed, we would 
direct him. No detail was ever too small, no problem too big that he would 
refuse to help you. If you needed to have him call the Chancellor of the 
University, he was there; if you needed a hand stuffing envelopes, he was there, 
too. Fredi loved this hands-on aspect of American academic life and of the 
American spirit, and the arrival of Fredi Chiappelli upon the American 
university scene was explosive indeed. With his profound humanistic formation, 
old world charm and boundless energy he possessed the ideal personal and 
professional resources to put the Renaissance on the cultural map of California 
and to strengthen its presence throughout the rest of the United States as well. 

I saw Fredi work and teach during two illnesses. Too weak to stand during 
his first illness, he was never too ill to think. He would call us, friends, students 
and collaborators to his bedside to study and to think, to overcome with him the 
defeated weakness of the body with the surging power of the intellect. 

Fredi didn’t make through his second illness. In 1988 I returned to Los 
Angeles to teach at Cal State University at Long Beach and to work with him on 
the Columbus Quincentenary. Fredi had been thinking about the approaching 
Quincentenary for a long time. In 1980, only a few weeks after joining the 
Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies staff, I had opened the first file for 
the Columbus project; by 1988 that slim manila folder had become an office. 
Fredi had always had a profound interest in the first explorers and settlers of 
America, which in 1976 he developed into the ground-breaking international 
conference and subsequent publication First Images of America. He was 
fascinated by the continuing, reciprocal impact of two continents, and very much 
saw his own life and evolving cultural vision as indebted to that legacy. First 
Images of America and the Repertorium Columbianum were, and are, the best 
tributes he could possibly pay to the genius of both continents. Shortly after his 
last voyage, Fredi, like Columbus, died, without knowing what he had 
accomplished. May he rest in peace. 


Clorinda Donato 
California State University, Long Beach 


P.s. I realize this is a very personal remembrance of a very great man. For those 
of you who would like to have more exact information about his professional 
life, let me quote from his curriculum vitae: “Fredi Chiappelli is the author of 
over two hundred books and articles. A list of his publications is available upon 
request.” 


Annali d’italianistica 
wishes to acknowledge with gratitude the support of the Istituto 
Italiano di Cultura of Chicago, made possible by Professor 
Annamaria Lelli, toward the publication of volume 7, 1989, of 
Annali d@ ’italianistica. Such institutional encouragement of the 
journal’s activities on behalf of Italian studies is greatly appreciated. 


ALDO VALLONE 


STRUTTURE E MODULAZIONI NELLA 


DIVINA COMMEDIA 


LEE 


Con la raccolta di letture dantesche (/nferno XI, XXV, 
XXVI, XXXIV; Purgatorio IV, XVI, XXVI, XXIX; Paradi- 
so IX, XI, XXV, XXX) «si é voluto cogliere la presenza di 
Dante razionalmente tesa, nel suo viaggio conoscitivo, a 
ricercare e a realizzare, in contemporaneita d'intenti, il parti- 
colare e il generale, il personaggio singolo (0 l'insieme dei 
personaggi) e l'ambiente, la scena mutevole e l'ideazione 
complessiva, la 'struttura’ e le modulazioni di lingua e stile. 
E si é inteso anche di sottolineare l'attenzione-tensione del 
vedere e dell'udire», come gia, in altri noti studi, l'autore, con 
molta dottrina e persuasivi esiti, ha posto in evidenza. 


Biblioteca dell'«Archivum Romanicum», serie I, vol. 234 
1990, cm. 18x25,5, 226 pp. Lire 40.000 
[ISBN 88 222 3775 7] 


Casa EDITRICE Leo S. OLSCHKI 
2 Casella postale 66 * 50100 Firenze aX tw 055 / 6530684 « Telefax 6530214 





Enzo Esposiro 


BIBLIOGRAFIA ANALITICA 
DEGLI SCRITTI SU 
DANTE 


(1950 -1970) 







L'opera si pone a continuazione di precedenti repertori compilati da 
Niccolo Domenico Evola, Héléne Wieruszowski, Aldo Vallone. Con le 
sue circa 9200 voci distribuite in 14 sezioni (Testi di consultazione; 
Raccolte e antologie; Scritti complessivi; Scritti biografici; Ambiente e 
tradizione culturale; Cultura, pensiero, spiritualita di Dante; Arte in 
Dante; «Divina Commedia» ; Opere minori; Studi sui manoscritti e sulle 
edizioni a stampa; Studi su commenti e commentatori; Studi su illustra- 
ztoni e illustratori; Studi su traduzioni e traduttori; Fortuna e storia della 
critica) offre un quadro ben ricco del culto di Dante nel mondo. 

A scorrere la fitta trama bibliografica, guarnita per lo pit di 
convenienti essenziali «abstracts», si colgono i tratti sicuri di un disegno 
Critico, in cui con netta evidenza s'intrecciano umori e giudizi, ricuperi e 
proiezioni, consolidamenti e conquiste (ma possono anche cogliersi certi 
criteri segnaletici e descrittivi ormai correttamente affidabili nell'eserci- 
zio della pratica di ricerca). 

A completamento (e a parte) si trovano gli indici dei periodici 
consultati, degli autori e degli argoment, indici che portano a calcolare 
peso e spessore del lavoro bibliografico, l'intelaiatura di echi, agganci e 
riferimenti tutta propria del dispositivo specifico d'una registrazione 
esclusiva. 
























Dantologia, vol. 1 
1990, cm. 17x24, 4 tomi di compl. XX VIII-1474 pp. 
Lire 320.000 [ISBN 88 222 3724 2] 











Casa EDITRICE Leo S. OLSCHKI 
# Casella postale 66 * 50100 Firenze “ABN tw 055 / 6530684 « Telefax 6530214 













VAIGVaD 


GRADIVA 


INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF ITALIAN LITERATURE 
RIVISTA INTERNAZIONALE DI LETTERATURA ITALIANA 


LANDOLFIANA 


Omaggio a Tommaso Landolfi 


a cura di 
Luigi Fontanella 
con la collaborazione di 
Achille Serrao 


—DIFFERENTIA— 


review of italian thought 


No. 3-4 (Autumn 1989) 


— HUMANISM/MODERNITY/POSTMODERNITY — 


New for 1990 
Voices in Italian Americana 


a literary and cultural review 


A semiannual literary and cultural review devoted to the dissemina- 
tion of information concerning the contributions of and about 
Italian Americans to the cultural and art worlds of North America. 
Each issue will be divided into three major sections: creative works, es- 
says, and reviews. 


bY ee in Italian Americana invites submissions in English. Essays 
and fiction should not exceed twenty pages, poetry five pages, 
typewritten and double spaced. All materials must be submitted in 
duplicate and follow the MLA Style Manual (1985). Manuscripts can- 
not be returned unless accompanied by SASE. All submissions will be 
reviewed by the editors and two members of the Editorial Board. 


Editors 
Anthony J. Tamburri 
Purdue University 
Paolo A. Giordano 
Loyola University Rome Center 


Review Editor 
Fred L. Gardaphe 
Columbia College/Chicago 


All editorial communications and subscriptions should be addressed to: Anthony J. 
Tamburri, Dept. of Foreign Languages and Literatures, Stanley Coulter Hall, Purdue 
University, W. Lafayette, IN 47907. 


Subscriptions: Individual $15.00 


Institutions $22.50 





Discourse, Journal for Theoretical Studies in Media 
and Culture, edited by Roswitha Mueller and 
Kathleen Woodward, explores a variety of topics in 
continental philosophy, theories of media and 
literature, and the 


politics of sexuality 


JOURNAL FOR THEORETICAL STUDIES IN MEDIA AND CULTURE 


including questions of 





language and 





psychoanalysis. It 





provides a forum for 





genuinely 




















interdisciplinary and 





intertextual discussion 


of culture. 


Bi-annual. Subscriptions: $15 individuals, $30 institutions. Out- 
side US, add $5 for foreign surface post. Send orders to Indiana 
University Press, Journals Division, 10th & Morton Streets, 
Bloomington, IN 47405. Or call 812-855-9449. 





New Vico Studies 


An International yearbook devoted to the study of the thought of Giambattista Vico and ofits affinities with contemporary thought 
and implications for it. 





Editors: Giorgio Tagliacozzo and Donald Phillip Verene 


Volume VII (1989) 


Giambattista Vico: Neglect and Resurrection 

Giorgio Tagliacozzo 

A Note on Vico and Antifoundationalism 

Tom Rockmore 

Vico and Chomsky: On the Nature of Creativity in Language 
Marcel Danesi 

Parlare Scrivendo: Deconstructive Remarks in Derrida’s Reading of Vico 
Jirgen Trabant 

Vico and Nietzsche 

David Parry 

Vico and Macintyre’s Whose Justice? Which Rationality? 
John D. Schaeffer 

Isaac La Peyrére and Vico 

Richard H. Popkin 


And 


Twenty five reviews of books on Vico, or dealing with ideas that are Vichian 
in nature, by Gustavo Costa, Fred Dallmayr, Marcel Danesi, Amedeo Giorgi, 
Patrick H. Hutton, Susan Noakes, Aldo Scaglione, Nancy S. Struever, 
Hayden White, and others. 


Bibliography of Vico in English (1984-1989) 





SUBSCRIPTIONS: 
US $ 39.95 (Includes postage), in the US. Establish a standing order from New Vico 
Foreign Air Mail (Recommended)add $ 6.50 Studies with the purchase of Vol. 7 and receive 
Foreign Surface Mail,add $ 3.00. Please all 6 back issues (1983-19888) absolutely freel 
order from Humanities Press International (Please inciude a $ 12.50 postage and han- 
Inc.,171 First Avenue, Atlantic Highlands, dling fee) 


NJ 07716, or call, toll free: 1-800-221-3845. 


Institute For Vico Studies 


New York — Atlanta 


Inquiries and submission of materials for publication should be addressed to the Institute for Vico Studies, 69 Fifth Avenue, 
Suite 17A, New York, NY 10003, Telephone (212) 989-2909 or to Dept. of Philosophy Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, 
telephone (404) 727-6577. 








Anno XV - n. 2 Aprile-Giugno 1990 





ESPERIENZE LETTERARIE 


Rivista trimestrale di critica e di cultura fondata da MARIO SANTORO 


diretta da MARCO SANTORO 


SOMMARIO 


Katscomipursa: deiMario Pormilto,..2 0 02 ee AE BO ea RE Ade ig. 84 312) a 
MICHELE CATAUDELLA, La critica letteraria di Mario Santoro....... » 5 
LEANDRO PERINI, La stampa in Italia nel 500: Firenzeela Toscana...  » 17 
CONTRIBUTI 
AGOSTINO ConTO, Alle origini della tipografia friulana del Cinquecen- 

PAE: Fae Sears 2 tare dane, ABs to gah Eth tes high eon behind 4: hegre Ae bysrott » 49 
SERENA ANDERLINI, The Advertisement: homoeroticism and gender in 

Natalia Giizbire’s drama Ae. ns. The Hees &. SOR » 67 
NOTE 
ROBERTO PASANISI, Lorenzo Spirito e la sua Finice.,............. » 83 


LOREDANA PALMA, Un difficile rapporto con la letterarieta: la narrati- 
va di Luciano Zuccoli attraverso il Novecento............... » 97 


OCCASIONI 


EuGENIO Lucrez1, La stagione napoletana de «II Baretti». Il trenten- 
nale di una importante rivista letteraria...............0044. se OY 


ApRIAN NIcuLescu, Un poeta romeno in versione italiana......... O11 


SUBSCRIBE! 


Annali d’Italianistica 


VOLUMES SOLD OUT: 
volume 1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 
volume 2 (1984), Guicciardini 


VOLUMES AVAILABLE: 
volume 3 (1985), Manzoni 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
volume 6 (1988), Film and Literature 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 


VOLUMES IN PREPARATION: 
volume 9 (1991), Italy’s Literary Culture since the 
Sixties: The Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of Columbus and the New World 
in Italian Literature 


Subscription rates. Domestic: Regular $12; institutions $19; back issues: add 
$3 for postage. Foreign subscribers: $21. Checks in U. S. currency should be 
made payable to Annali d’Italianistica. Address all correspondence to: The 
Editor, Annali d’Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-3170. 


NAME: 
ADDRESS: 
VOLUME REQUESTED: 


CHECK ENCLOSED: 





University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Graduate Studies 
in Romance Languages and Literatures 




















The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures at the 

University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, established in 

1909, links its distinguished past of internationally known 
faculty and alumni to a lively and timely intellectual exchange 
in the present. The Department offers M.A. degrees in French, 
Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish. The Ph.D. degree is offered in 

French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and in Romance 

Philology. 





Faculty. Thirty-five full-time professors teach in the Department. 
Distinguished lecturers are invited each year. 





Publications. The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures 
publishes: Romance Notes, The University of North Carolina Studies in the 
Romance Languages and Literatures, Hispandéfila, and Annali d’Italianistica. 
















Library Facilities. The University of North Carolina Davis Library contains 
over 3,500,000 volumes. Online resources and the Center for Research broaden 
the University library holdings. The Cooperative purchasing and borrowing 
programs with Duke University and North Carolina State University give easy 
access to those holdings that complement the University of North Carolina 
libraries. 





Fellowships and Teaching Assistantships. The Department offers 
numerous fellowships and teaching assistantships: Graduate School Merit 
Fellowships (including limited teaching assignments): $9,000-15,000; in 
addition to teaching stipends of $3,500 per section per semester, endowments 
enable the Department to offer supplemental scholarships of $1,000-2,000 to 
qualified students. Most students teach two or three sections of beginning 
language courses per academic year, according to their teaching experience and 
the University’s needs. 


Admission. Application forms for admission to the Graduate School and to 
the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures may be obtained by 
writing to: The Graduate Secretary, Department of Romance Languages and 
Literatures, CB # 3170, 238 Dey Hall, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170. 
Applicants requesting fellowships and assistantships must submit admission 
materials by February 1. 










AdI 


Annali d’Italianistica 


volume 1 (1983), Pulci and Boiardo 
volume 2 (1984), Guicciardini 
volume 3 (1985), Manzoni 
volume 4 (1986), Autobiography 
volume 5 (1987), D’Annunzio 
volume 6 (1988), Film and Literature 
volume 7 (1989), Women’s Voices 
volume 8 (1990), Dante and Modern American Criticism 
volume 9 (1991), Italy’s Literary Culture since the 
Sixties: The Modern and the Postmodern 
volume 10 (1992), Images of Columbus and the New 
World in Italian Literature 


Subscription rates. Domestic: Regular $12; institutions $19; back issues: add 
$3 for postage. Foreign subscribers: $21. Checks in U. S. currency should be 
made payable to Annali d’Italianistica. Address all correspondence to: The 
Editor, Annali d’Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-3170. Shipping date: First week of December. 





| a 3 EP 


