


+ + ome 
< 


AdI 


Annali d’Italianistica 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3170 
http://www. ibiblio.org/annali —_ e-mail: <annali@metalab.unc.edu> 


EDITOR 

Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
ASSOCIATE EDITOR 

Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 

ADVISORY BOARD 

Andrea Battistini, Universita degli Studi di Bologna 

Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago : 

Louise George Clubb, University of California, Berkeley 
Vincenzo De Caprio, Universita della Tuscia, Viterbo 
Domenico De Robertis, Universita degli Studi di Firenze 
Giulio Ferroni, Universita della Sapienza, Roma 

Franco Fido, Harvard University 

Valeria Finucci, Duke University 

John Gatt-Rutter, La Trobe University (Melbourne) 

Walter Geerts, Universiteit Antwerpen 

Willi Hirdt, Universitat Bonn 

Antonio Illiano, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Christopher Kleinhenz, Univerisity of Wisconsin, Madison 
Edoardo A. Lébano, /ndiana University 

Albert N. Mancini, The Ohio State University 

Mario Marti, Universita degli Studi di Lecce 

Olimpia Pelosi, SUNY-Albany 

Ennio Rao, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Aldo Scaglione, New York University 

Paolo Valesio, Yale University 

Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 

Assistant Editor 

Anne Tordi, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


© 2002 by Annali d’Italianistica, Inc. 


Editorial Policy 


Annali d’Italianistica seeks to promote the study of Italian literature in its 
cultural context, to foster scholarly excellence, and to select topics of interest to 
a large number of Italianists. Monographic in nature, the journal is receptive to 
a variety of topics, critical approaches, and theoretical perspectives. Each 
year’s topic is announced well ahead of time, and contributions are welcome. 
The journal is issued in the fall of each year. Manuscripts should be submitted 
on diskette and should be accompanied by a stamped, self-addressed envelope. 
Authors should follow the MLA style for articles in English; articles in Italian 
should conform to the Ad/ style sheet. Visit the journal’s website 
(www. ibiblio.org/annali) for further information on the contributions’ style. 
For all communications concerning contributions, address the Editor, Annali 
d'Italianistica, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-3170, or post <annali@metalab.unc.edu>. 


Notes & Reviews 


This section occasionally publishes essays and review articles on topics treated 
in one of the previous volumes of Annali d’Italianistica. 


Italian Bookshelf 
Italian Bookshelf is edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the 
collaboration of Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Albert N. 
Mancini, Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 
The purpose of Italian Bookshelf is to identify, review, and bring to the 
attention of Italianists recent studies on Italian literature and culture. /talian 
Bookshelf will cover the entire history of Italian literature. Ad/ will review 
books exclusively on the basis of their scholarly worth. To this purpose, junior 
and senior colleagues will be invited to collaborate without any consideration 
to academic affiliation and with an open attitude toward critical approaches. 
Contributions to this section are solicited. Scholars who intend to contribute 
are encouraged to contact the editors or one of the section’s permanent 
collaborators. Book reviews, to be submitted on diskette, should be sent to the 
Editor. For inquiries post <annali@metalab.unc.edu>. 

The Journal’s Website: www. ibiblio.org/annali 
The tables of contents of all issues, including the list of all book reviews, are 
available online. As of volume 16 (1998), each issue’s introductory essay and 
all book reviews are available online with their full texts. 


In Memory 


Aldo Vallone, one of the most distinguished scholars of Italian literature of the 
twentieth century, died on June 23, 2002, in Galatina, in the province of Lecce, 
where he was born on November 1, 1916. He studied at the universities of 
Florence and Turin, graduating in 1940. He first taught at the liceo of Asti, 
Galatina, and Rome, later becoming Provveditore agli Studi and Ispettore 
Centrale at the Ministero della Pubblica Istruzione. After teaching at the 
universities of Lecce and Bari, beginning in the academic year 1972-73 he 
taught at the University of Naples until his retirement. 


An extremely well-mannered, courteous, and considerate person, Aldo 
Vallone devoted his entire life to the study of Italy’s literary culture. The 
bibliography of his published works is endless and will bear witness, for many 
generations to come, to his love for his native land, the Salento, and virtually all 
genres and all centuries in Italy’s culture, beginning with his Prime noterelle 
dantesche (1947) and continuing indefatigably until the last days of his life. 
Interpreting respectfully Aldo Vallone’s mind, I believe that he would like to be 
remembered especially for his Storia della letteratura meridionale (Napoli: 
CUEN, 1996, pp. 816) and his works on Italy’s greatest poet, primarily his 
Dante (1971; re-edited in 1981) and his Storia della critica dantesca dal XIV 
and XX secolo (1981, 2 vols.), all three volumes belonging to Vallardi’s 
prestigious Storia letteraria d'Italia. 


Among the many tributes Aldo Vallone received during his life, I would 
like to remember the following: Medaglia d’oro per i Benemeriti della Scuola 
Cultura e Arte (1971); and Medaglia d’oro conferred upon him by the city of 
Florence and the Societa Dantesca Italiana (1990). 


His love for his Salento led him back, time and again, to his native Galatina, 
where I had the privilege of meeting him and conversing with him on many 
occasions in his “(Casa di Dante,” his extremely rich personal library, to which 
he devoted so much love and care throughout his life: a true cenacolo where 
friends, disciples, and scholars used to convene to converse with, and honor 
Aldo Vallone. Next to the memory of this unique gentleman scholar and his 
prestigious works, Galatina’s “Casa di Dante” will be affectionately 
remembered by all, and will remain the proper testimonial to Aldo Vallone’s 
lifelong devotion to his great true teacher and mentor: Dante Alighieri. 


Dino S. Cervigni 
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


In Memory 


Peter Armour, Professor of Italian at Royal Holloway University of London, 
died of cancer last June at the age of 61. One of the leading Dante scholars of his 
generation, his research interests also embraced the work of Michelangelo and 
Galileo. On Dante, Peter Armour’s publications, though most closely associated 
with the Divine Comedy, and especially the Purgatorio, ranged over all of 
Dante’s works and addressed not only literary topics, but also contemporary 
culture, medieval thought, the history of ideas and even the Tartars. 

Peter Armour gained his first degree at the Gregorian University in Rome, 
where he completed the Licentiate in Philosophy before returning to England to 
take his BA Honours in Italian at the University of Manchester. The training in 
philosophy and theology that Peter received in Rome constituted the invaluable 
foundation of his scholarly work. His effortless recall of details of biblical 
exegesis and Christian doctrine allowed him repeatedly to challenge existing 
interpretations, whether of Dante’s Matelda or Michelangelo’s Moses, and to 
propose new and convincing analyses. 

After posts in the universities of Sheffield and Leicester, Peter Armour 
moved in 1979 to London, becoming Professor of Italian in 1989. At Royal 
Holloway Peter built up the Department to become one of the largest and most 
prestigious in the UK. His international reputation took him to many parts of the 
world as guest lecturer and conference participant. In North America he was 
twice visiting professor at the University of Virginia, and a frequent speaker at 
Dante and Renaissance Society conferences. He was active wherever Dante 
scholars gathered, contributing in recent years to the symposia on “Dante and 
the Natural Sciences” (Ravenna 1993), appropriately given his interests in 
Galileo, and on “Monsters” (Todi 1996), a topic related to his monograph on 
Dante’s Griffin (Oxford University Press, 1989). 

In 1999 Peter took early retirement in order to concentrate on his research. 
At the time of his death he was preparing for publication his Oxford Toynbee 
lectures and was elaborating his ideas on the popular reception and performance 
of the Divine Comedy. His last public lecture, in Dublin last April, was on Dante 
and friendship. It was an appropriate farewell. Peter Armour’s many friends 
around the world will mourn the loss of a great scholar, stimulating critic and 
dear friend. 

Jane E.Everson 
Professor of Italian Literature 
Royal Holloway University of London 


In Memory 
Robert S. Dombroski, Professor of Italian literature, died on May 10, 2002, at 
the American Hospital in Paris after a two-month battle with infectious 
endocarditis. He is survived by his wife, Lucy McNeece, Associate Professor of 
French and Chair of the Comparative Literary and Cultural Studies Program at 
the University of Connecticut, Storrs; his sons, Ian and Stanley Dombroski; and 
his grandchildren, Samuel, Lucas and Robert. 

Robert Dombroski grew up in Providence, where he was born in 1939. In 
1962 he was awarded a B.A. in Italian at Providence College. After two years of 
study in Florence on a Fullbright, he pursued graduate studies in both Italian and 
Comparative Literature at the University of California at Berkeley, where he 
received an M.A. in 1966, and at Harvard University, where he obtained a Ph.D. 
in 1969. 

Robert Dombroski began his teaching career at the University of Chicago 
and in 1971 he joined Glauco Cambon and Giovanni Sinicropi at the University 
of Connecticut, Storrs. He taught Italian and Comparative Literature and 
founded and directed the university's Study Abroad Program in Florence. In 
1994 he was appointed Distinguished Professor of Italian at the College of 
Staten Island and Director of Italian Studies at the Graduate School of the City 
University of New York. 

Robert Dombroski authored and edited a number of important critical 
works, including Critical Perspectives on Decameron (1977), La totalita 
dell'artificio: ideologia e forma nel romanzo di Pirandello (1978), Apologia del 
vero: letture e interpretazioni dei “Promessi sposi” (1984), L'esistenza 
ubbidiente: letterati italiani sotto il fascismo (1984), Antonio Gramsci (1989), 
Properties of Writing: Ideological Discourse in Modern Italian Fiction (1994), 
and Italy: Fiction, Theatre, Poetry, Film since 1950 (2000). Yet, it is perhaps in 
his groundbreaking studies on C. E. Gadda that Robert Dombroski’s 
accomplishments in the field of modern Italian literature are most apparent. To 
the work of Gadda, who remained a constant in Robert Dombroski’s life, he 
dedicated numerous essays, two monographs — /ntroduzione allo studio di C.E. 
Gadda (1974) and Creative Entanglements: Gadda and the Baroque (1999) -, 
and a co-edited volume, Carlo Emilio Gadda: Contemporary Perspectives 
(1997). In 1998 he co-edited volume 16 of Annali d’italianistica devoted to 
Italian Cultural Studies. 

The exceptional quality of Robert Dombroski’s scholarship was recognized 
internationally. He was the recipient of numerous prestigious awards, including 
the Modern Language Association Howard R. Marraro and the Aldo and Jean 
Scaglione Prizes. Earlier this year he was named honorary President of the 
American Association of Italian Studies. 

Robert Dombroski’s life is distinguished not only by its academic 
excellence but also by his gift for teaching, his dedication to his students and 
colleagues, and his loyalty and generosity towards his friends. He has left a 
lasting impression on many lives and his memory will be cherished by all of us 
who have known and loved him. 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


11 


15 


ANNALI D°ITALIANISTICA 
Volume 20, 2002 
Exile Literature 


Dino S. Cervigni, Exile Literature: 
Betwixt and Between Body and Spirit 
Abstracts 


FROM THE MIDDLE AGES TO THE POST-TRIDENTINE ERA 


21 
55 
73 
89 
113 
127 


149 


Giuseppe De Marco, L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 
quale autobiografia universale 

Robert Wilson, Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 

Guy P. Raffa, Dante’s Poetics of Exile 

Catherine Keen, Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 

Fabian Alfie, Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Cecco Angiolieri, Pietro 
de’ Faitinelli, and Pieraccio Tedaldi 

Thomas Peterson, Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and 
Petrarch 

Armando Maggi, The Soul’s Exile: Devotional Literature 
and Renaissance Culture in Guido Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 


TOWARD A NEW NOTION OF EXILE 


173 


187 


201 


217 


235 


Luigi Monga, “Doom ’d to Wander”: 
Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 
Nicola Bietolini, J “concatenati dolori’’. Esilio, scrittura e 
censura nell’autobiografia letteraria e ne “‘L’esule” 
di Pietro Giannone 
Robert A. Rushing, Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s “A Zacinto”’ 
Cosetta Gaudenzi, Exile, Translation, and Return: 
Ugo Foscolo in England 
Aida Audeh, /mages of Dante’s Exile in 19"-Century France 


THE 20TH CENTURY: EXILE LITERATURE 
BETWIXT & BETWEEN BODY & SOUL 


259 


275 


285 


307 
325 


Assumpta Camps, Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: 
per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 

Annunziata O. Campa, Utopia e disincanto: |’esilio degli intellettuali 
spagnoli nella diaspora della Guerra Civile 

Giuseppe Tosi, Dall ‘attesa alla storia-esilio. La memoria e I’identita in 
Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 

Lucienne Kroha, Exile in Giorgio Bassani’s Work 

Cinzia Sartini Blum, Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: 
Exile as the Last Utopia 


343 Laura Rorato, L’arte di perdere peso di Mario Fortunato, 

ovvero il paradigma dell’esilio in eta contemporanea 
355 Sabina Gola, Grammatica o “Nuova grammatical” dell’esilio 
369 Jennifer Burns, Exile within Italy: Interactions between 

Past and Present “Homes” in Texts in Italian by Migrant Writers 
385 Simona Wright, Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 
403 Giancarlo Lombardi, Parigi o cara: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 

in Contemporary Cinema and Fiction 


CONCLUSION: DANTE’S WORTHY EXAMPLE & HIS WORK FOR PEACE 
425 Anthony Cassell, The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation: 
Monarchia 3:16.16-18 


NOTES & REVIEWS 

451 Dante Alighieri, Rime, a cura di Domenico De Robertis, voll. 5 (“i 
documenti”, voll. I-II, pp. IX-LX, 431; 435-991; “Introduzione’”, voll. III-IV, pp. 
9-722, 723-1237; V, “Testi”, pp. 9-595), Firenze, Casa Editrice Le Lettere, 
2002. (Paolo Cherchi) 

452 Dante and His Translators: Dante Alighieri, /nferno, translated by Robert 
Hollander and Jean Hollander; introduction and notes by Robert Hollander, New 
York: Doubleday, 2000, pp. 634. (Dino S. Cervigni) 


459 ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 

Edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the collaboration of 
Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Albert N. Mancini, 
Massimo Maggiari, & John P. Welle. 

Augusto Fraschetti (a c. di). Roman Women. Trans. Linda Lappin. Chicago: U of Chicago 
P, 2001. (Carlotta Bendi 459) * Gigetta Dalli Regoli. // gesto e la mano. Convenzione e 
invenzione nel linguaggio figurativo fra Medioevo e Rinascimento. Firenze: Olschki, 
2000. (Bruno Ferraro 461) * L. Scorrano, // Dante “fascista”. Saggi, letture, note 
dantesche, Ravenna, Longo, 2001. (Nicola Bietolini 463) * R. W. B. Lewis. Dante. New 
York: Penguin Putnam, 2001. (Gregory Francesco Blanch 466) * Ignazio Baldelli. Dante 
e Francesca. Firenze: Olschki, 1999. (Diana Glenn 469) * Guy P. Raffa. Divine 
Dialectic. Dante’s Incarnational Poetry. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2000. (Diego Fasolini 
472) * Letture Classensi 29. Costruzione narrativa e coscienza profetistica nella “Divina 
Commedia”, ac. di N. Mineo, Longo, Ravenna 2000. (Rodney J. Lokaj 474) * Zygmunt 
G. Bara ski, “Chiosar con altro testo”: leggere Dante nel Trecento, Cadmo, Fiesole 
2001. (Rodney J. Lokaj 476) * Marco Berisso. La raccolta dei poeti perugini del Vat. 
Barberiniano Lat. 4036. Storia della tradizione e cultura poetica di una scuola 
trecentesca. Firenze: Olschki, 2000. (Fabian Alfie 479) * Romeo and Juliet Before 
Shakespeare. Four Early Stories of Star-Crossed Love. Trans. Nicole Prunster. Toronto: 
Centre for Reformation and Renaissance Studies, 2000. (Erika Milburn 481) * Lucrezia 
Tornabuoni de’ Medici. Sacred Narratives. Ed. and trans. Jane Tylus. Chicago: U of 
Chicago P, 2001. (Bruno Ferraro 483) * Ronnie Ferguson. The Theatre of Angelo Beolco 
(Ruzante). Text, Context, and Performance. Ravenna: Longo, 2000. (Linda L. Carroll 


485) * Mariantonietta Acocella. L’asino d’oro ne/ Rinascimento. Dai volgarizzamenti 
alle raffigurazioni pittoriche. Ravenna: Longo, 2001. (Bruno Ferraro 488) * Ronnie H. 
Terpening. Lodovico Dolce, Renaissance Man of Letters. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 1997. 
(Suzanne Magnanini 490) * Micaela Rinaldi. Torquato Tasso e Francesco Patrizi: tra 
polemiche letterarie e incontri intellettuali. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 2001. (Matthew 
Treherne 493) * Zsuzsanna Rozsny6i. Dopo Ariosto. Tecniche narrative e discorsive nei 
poemi postariosteschi. Ravenna: Longo, 2000. (Maria Predelli 495) * Quinto Marini, 
Frati barocchi. Studi su A. G. Brignole Sale, G. A. de Marini, A. Aprosio, F. F. Frugoni, 
P. Segneri, Modena: Mucchi Editore, 2000. (Stefano Termanini 497) * Jack D’Amico. 
Shakespeare and Italy: The City and the Stage. Gainesville: UP of Florida, 2001. (Nicole 
Prunster 500) * Rinaldina Russell, ed. Sister Maria Celeste’s Letters to Her Father, 
Galileo. San Jose: Writers Club, 2000. (Silvia Ruffo Fiore 503) * Corrado Viola, ed. 
Edizione Nazionale del Carteggio di L. A. Muratori. Vol. 28, Carteggi con Mansi ... 
Marmi. Firenze: Olschki, 1999. (Gustavo Costa 506) * Viaggiatori inglesi tra sette e 
ottocento. Saggi di Daniele Niedda, Margaret Rose, Mirella Billi, Maurizio Ascari. A c. 
di Vincenzo De Caprio. Roma: Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani, 1999. The Journey 
Home. Eleven Italian-American Narratives and an Utterance of Joy. Transcribed and 
written by Ross Talarico. West Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2002. (Thomas F. Heck 508) * 
Albert Ascoli and Krystyna von Henneberg, eds. Making and Remaking Italy: The 
Cultivation of National Identity Around the Risorgimento. Oxford: Berg, 2001. (Norma 
Bouchard 511) * Nicoletta Pireddu. Antropologia alla corte della bellezza. Decadenza ed 
economia simbolica nell’Europa fin de siécle. Edizioni Fiorini: Verona, 2002. (Rebecca 
West 514) * Arnaldo Di Benedetto. Dal tramonto dei lumi al romanticismo. Modena: 
Mucchi, 2000. (Stefania Buccini 515) * Barbara Milizia, Le guide dei viaggiatori 
romantici, Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani, Roma, 2001. (Paolo Rambelli 516) * Ann 
Lawson Lucas. La ricerca dell’ignoto. Firenze: Olschki, 2000. (Luciano Parisi 518) * 
Philip D. Rasico. Café i Quilombo: els diaris de viatge de Joaquim Miret i Sans (1900- 
1918). Barcelona, Institut d’Estudis Catalans, 2001. (Luigi Monga 521) * Angela Ida 
Villa. Neoidealismo e rinascenza latina tra Otto e Novecento. La cerchia di Corazzini: 
poeti dimenticati e riviste del crepuscolarismo romano (1903-1907). Milano: LED, 1999. 
(Daniela La Penna 522) * Francesca Caputo, Sintassi e dialogo nella narrativa di Carlo 
Dossi, Firenze: Accademia della Crusca, 2000. (Gigliola Sulis 525) * Enrico Cesaretti. 
Castelli di carta. Retorica della dimora tra Scapigliatura e Surrealismo. Ravenna: 
Longo, 2001. (Cinzia Di Giulio 528) * Rimanelliana. Studi su Giose Rimanelli / Studies 
on Giose Rimanelli, a c. di Sebastiano Martelli, Stony Brook, Forum Italicum, 2000. 
(Assumpta Camps 530) * Reflexivity. Critical Themes in the Italian Cultural Tradition. 
Essays by Members of the Department of Italian at the University College London, ac. di 
Prue Shaw and John London, Ravenna, Longo, 2000. (Assumpta Camps 533) * Luciano 
Parisi. Borgese. Torino: Tirrenia Stampatori, 2000. (Chiara Fabbian 534) * Loredana 
Polezzi. Translating Travel: Contemporary Italian Travel Writing in English 
Translations. Burlington, VT: Ashgate, 2001. (Timothy Campbell 537) * Ruth Ben- 
Ghiat. La cultura fascista. Bologna: I] Mulino, 2000. (Anna Maria Torriglia 539) * 
Beppe Fenoglio, Romanzi e racconti, nuova edizione accresciuta a cura di Dante Isella, 
Torino, Einaudi, 2001. Pp. LXVI - 1800. (Giorgio Nisini 541) * // castello, il convento, il 
palazzo e altri scenari dell’ambientazione letteraria, a c. di Marinella Cantelmo, Firenze: 
Olschki, 2000. (Stefano Termanini 543) * Emesto G. Caserta, Saggi critici su Croce, 
Napoli, Loffredo, 2001. Ernesto G. Caserta, Trent’anni di critica italiana, Firenze, 


Cesati, 2001. (Emanuele Cutinelli-Rendina 546) * Umberto Eco. Experiences in 
Translation. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2001. (Paolo Bartoloni 547) * Maria Nicolai 
Paynter. /gnazio Silone. Beyond the Tragic Vision. Toronto: Toronto UP, 2000. (Deborah 
Holmes 550) * Ugo Spirito. Memoirs of the Twentieth Century. Trans. Anthony 
Costantini. Atlanta: Rodopi, 2000. (Cinzia Donatelli Noble 553) * Paolo Giordano and 
Anthony Julian Tamburri, eds. Pluralism and Critical Practice. Essays in Honor of 
Albert N. Mancini. West Lafayette, Ind.: Bordighera Press, 1999. (Augustus Pallotta 
555); Giuseppe Bonaviri, Giufa e Gesu. Fiaba teatrale in due parti e un epilogo, ac. di 
Sarah Zappulla Muscara, Catania, La Cantinella, 2001. Carmine di Biase, Bonaviri e 
l'oltre. L'opera intera, Napoli, Edizioni Scientifiche Italiane, 2001. (Roberto Bertoni 558) 
* Mary Ann Frese Witt. The Search for Modern Tragedy. Aesthetic Fascism in Italy and 
France. \thaca: Cornell UP, 2001. (Nicoletta Pireddu 560) * Bart Van den Bosche. 
“Nulla é@ veramente accaduto”. Strategie discorsive del mito nell’opera di Cesare 
Pavese, Leuven UP, Firenze, Franco Cesati Editore, 2001. (Assumpta Camps 563) * 
Joseph Tusiani. Ethnicity. Selected Poems. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera Press, 2000. 
(Norma Bouchard 565) * Carlo Lucarelli. A/most Blue. Trans. Oonagh Stransky. San 
Francisco: City Lights Books, 2001. (Dawn Green 567) * Raffaello Baldini. Carta canta 
(Page Proof). Ed. Daniele Benati. Trans. Adria Bernardi. Boca Raton FL: Bordighera, 
2001. (Paolo Rambelli 569) * Zigmunt G. Bara ski and Rebecca West, eds. The 
Cambridge Companion to Modern Italian Culture. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge UP, 
2001. (Gaetana Marrone 572) * Giancarlo Lombardi. Rooms with a View: Feminist Diary 
Fiction, 1952-1999. Farleigh Dickinson UP, 2002. (Lon J. Ultsch 574) * Helen Barolini. 
More Italian Hours. Boca Raton, FL: Bordighera, 2001. (Paola Blelloch 577) * Jonathan 
Usher, and Domenico Fiormonte, eds. New Media and the Humanities: Research and 
Applications. Proceedings of the First Seminar “Computers, Literature and Philology,” 
Edinburgh, 7-9 September 1998. Oxford: Humanities Computing Unit, University of 
Oxford, 2001. (Christian Dupont 581) * Mauro Novelli. / “‘saggi lirici’” di Delio Tessa. 
Milano: Pubblicazioni della Facolta di Lettere e Filosofia dell’Universita degli Studi, 
2001. (Andrea Malaguti 584) * Valeria Finucci, and Kevin Brownlee, eds. Generation 
and Degeneration: Tropes of Reproduction in Literature and History. Durham: Duke UP, 
2001. (Cristina Mazzoni 587) * Franco Nasi, a c. di. /ntorno alla via Emilia: per una 
geografia culturale dell’Italia contemporanea. Atti del convegno La Via Emilia. Cultural 
Journeys through Contemporary Italy. Italian Cultural Institute, Chicago, University of 
Chicago, 11-13 maggio 2000. Boca Raton, FL: Bordighera Press, 2001. (Stefania 
Lucamante 588) * Marco Bertozzi. L’immaginario urbano nel cinema delle origini: la 
veduta Lumiére. Bologna: CLUEB, 2001. (John P. Welle 590) * Sheryl Lynn Postman, 
and J. Jeli Hernandez, eds. Cinema and Multiculturalism. Selected Proceedings. New 
York: Legas, 2001. (Cinzia Di Giulio 593) * Carlo Celli. The Divine Comic: The Cinema 
of Roberto Benigni. The Scarecrow Press, Inc. 2001. (William Van Watson 595) * 
William Hope. The Films of Giuseppe Tornatore. Leics, UK: Troubador, 2001. (Cinzia 
Di Giulio 598) * Giorgio Agamben. The Man without Content. Trans. Georgia Albert. 
Stanford: Stanford UP, 1999. Giorgio Agamben. The End of the Poem. Studies in Poetics. 
Trans. Daniel Heller-Roazen. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1999. (Alessandro Montani 599) * 
Italian Grotesque Theater. Trans. and Introd. Michael Vena. Madison, NJ: Farleigh 
Dickinson UP, 2001. (Daniela Cavallaro 603) * Daniela Bisello Antonucci. Nino 
Palumbo e |’evoluzione narrativa. Metauro: Fossombrone, 2001. (Simona Wright 604) * 
Umberto Mariani. La creazione del vero. Il maggior teatro di Pirandello. Fiesole: 


Cadmo, 2001. (Simona Wright 606) * Anna Banti. “La Signorina” e altri racconti. Ed. 
Carol Lazzaro-Weis. New York: The Modern Language Association, 2001. Anna Banti. 
“The Signorina” and Other Stories. Ed. Carol Lazzaro-Weis. Trans. Martha King and 
Carol Lazzaro-Weis. New York: The Modern Language Association, 2001. (Angela M. 
Jeannet 609) * La materia dell’anima, a c. di Letizia Comba, Torino: Rosenberg & 
Sellier, 2001. (Anna Maria Torriglia 610) * Sante Matteo e Stefano Bellucci (a c. di), 
Africa Italia. Due continenti si avvicinano, Faraeditore, Santarcangelo di Romagna, 1999. 
(John Foot 612) * Renzo Ricchi, Selected poems, traduzione di Catherine O’Brien, 
introduzione di Mario Luzi, Gradiva Publications, 2000. (Paola Bortolotti 614) * 
Jennifer Lagier. Second-Class Citizen. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2000. (Dawn Green 
616) * Cinzia Sartini Blum, and Lara Trubowitz. Contemporary Italian Women Poets. A 
Bilingual Anthology. New Y ork: Italica Press, 2001. (Stefania Benini 617) * Willi Jung, 
ed. Mitteilungen des Studiengangs Deutsch-Italienische Studien/Studi Italo-Tedeschi 5. 
Bonn: Universitat Bonn, 2001. (Daria Valentini 620) 


623 Brief Notices. Edited by Anne Tordi. 

Portales | (August 2001). Pp. 145. 

Lucio Romano. Lettere di Gioacchino Toma a Eduardo Dalbono. Poemetto. Lecce: 
Universita Popolare Galatina, 1997. Pp. 89. 

Lucio Romano. Una vita in versi. Percorsi e note critiche. Galatina: Edizioni II 
Campanile, 2001. Pp. 223. 

Frank J. Pettinelli. A Faraway Sun. First Books Library, 2002. Pp. 195. 

J. K. “Kirk Bonner.” /ntroduction to Sicilian Grammar. Ed. Gaetano Cipolla. Brooklyn, 
NY: Legas, 2001. Pp. 225. 

Chroniques italiennes. Mélanges offerts a Pierre Laroche. Université de la Sorbonne 
Nouvelle 69/70 (2-3/2002). Pp. 222. 

Alessandro Carrera. L ‘amore del secolo. Un paesaggio verbale. / Love of the Century. A 
Wordscape. Fuoricollana 5. Castel Maggiore: Book editore, 2000. Pp. 127. 

Luisa Rossina Villani. Running Away from Russia. Ital. trans. Luigi Fontanella. Boca 
Raton (FL): Bordighera, 2001. Pp. 67. 

Nuove lettere. Rivista internazionale di poesia e letteratura 10.11 (1999). Pp. 199. 
Albino Pierro. Selected Poems. Trans. Luigi Bonaffini. Toronto: Guernica, 2002. Pp. 174. 
Angela M. Jeannet. /n forma di corona. Firenze: L’Autore Libri, 2001. Pp. 98. 

Assunta Finiguerra. Résciddé (Scricciolo). Supplemento della rivista di poesie Pagine. 
Radici: Collana di poesia in dialetto. Preface by Achille Serao. Roma: Zone Editrice, 
2001. Pp. 79. 

Maura Del Serra. /nfinite Present. Selected Poems of Maura Del Serra. Trans. Emanuel 
Di Pasquale and Michael Palma. Crossings 12. Boca Raton, FL: Bordighera, 2002. Pp. 
129. 

Kevin M. Cahill. Un ponte verso la pace. Roma: Editoriale Pantheon, 2001. Pp. 126. 

A Sicilian Shakespeare. A Bilingual Edition of All His Sonnets. Trans. into Sicilian Renzo 
Porcelli. Preface Gaetano Cipolla. Brooklyn: Legas, 2001. Pp. 99. 


AdI 2004: Petrarch and the European Lyric Tradition 


Francis Petrarch was born from a Florentine exile in Arezzo on July 20, 1304; 
he died in Arqua, near Padua, during the night of July 18-19, 1374. Heralded as 
the first Renaissance man and one of the greatest Humanists of all times, 
Petrarch exercised by far his greatest influence by means of his Canzoniere: a 
collection of 366 poems, on which he worked through most of his adult life until 
his death, celebrating the Petrarch-persona’s alternating relationships with an 
idealized woman, Laura. 

Petrarch’s Canzoniere incorporates many of the previous songbooks’ 
technical and poetic characteristics, from the exploitation of virtually all 
available metrical forms to the construction of his collection following the 
bipartite structure of Dante’s Vita nuova: namely, the celebration of the beloved, 
first, when she is alive, and, second, when she is dead and in heaven. The aspect 
in which Petrarch surpassed all previous lyric traditions and which fascinated all 
poets for many centuries was the poetic I’s unremittingly introspective analysis 
of all facets of the human psyche in its never-ending attempts at bridging the gap 
between the self and the other, personified by the beloved. The conclusion of the 
Canzoniere, however, seems to overturn that seemingly impossible human 
endeavor of connecting with the other. The Petrarch-persona, in fact, turns 
himself wholly to the Christian Godhead through the intercession of the Blessed 
Virgin, thereby placing a religious and sacred seal on a poetic creation 
characterized more by a personal, individualistic, and earthly pursuit than by a 
supernatural quest. 

Petrarch’s Canzoniere influenced, modified, and shaped all lyric poetry for 
the next three centuries, until the middle of the 17" century, and constituted a 
constant point of reference for many poets throughout the 19" and 20" centuries 
as well. The unparalleled literary phenomenon that swept through most of 
Western Europe became know as Petrarchism and constituted one of the most 
revolutionary and innovative trends in modern poetry. 

Insofar as poetry in all its manifestations, according to Mikhail Bakhtin, has 
shaped and still shapes humans’ way of thinking and relating to each other more 
than philosophy, one can appreciate the importance of Petrarch in Europe’s 
literary and cultural history. The seventh centenary of Petrarch’s birth, therefore, 
is an appropriate moment for reflecting on his influence especially in Italy, 
France, Spain, Portugal, and Great Britain. With the support of the College of 
Arts and Sciences and the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures of 
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Annali d’Italianistica intends to 
celebrate the seventh centenary of Petrach’s birth in two ways: first, by 
organizing a convention on “Petrarch and the European Lyric Tradition” in the 
Spring of 2004 on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill; second, by publishing selected papers presented at the Convention in the 
2004 issue of AdI, scheduled to appear in the Fall of the same year. 


DinoS.Cervigni 





Exile Literature: Betwixt and Between Body and Spirit 
“Exilium ibi esse puta, ubi virtuti non sit locus” 
(Cicero, Pro Milone 101) 
“Nulla terra exilium est, sed altera patria est” 
(Seneca, De remediis fortunae 8.1) 


On January 27, 1302, Dante Alighieri was expelled from the city of Florence in 
which he was born and which he was destined to make famous more than any 
other Florentine. Shortly afterward, on March 10, 1302, he was also condemned 
to death by the new government of his native city. The year 2002, therefore, 
marks the seventh centenary of what Italy’s most famous exile viewed as “pena 
d’essilio e di povertate” (Convivio 1:3.3). We do not know what Dante’s literary 
career would have been without the forced exile he experienced until the end of 
his life; we know, however, that his exilic condition, which he always judged 
totally unjust and undeserved and which he suffered in the noblest manner, 
deeply affected all the works he wrote afterward. At the same time, that life of 
forced wanderings made him also realize most deeply the Christian believer’s 
condition of exile on earth and pilgrimage toward the heavenly Jerusalem. 

Most obviously, the experience of exile is unique neither to Dante alone nor 
to Italians as a people. And yet, the Italian peninsula’s political fragmentation 
until the second half of the 19™ century, the dictatorship that the newly formed 
country experienced for most of the 20" century’s second quarter, and finally 
Italy’s participation in the Second World War, caused many Italians (just as 
countless other people all over the world) to experience exile because of 
political, religious, and economic reasons. Removed to a new land, the exiled 
person is time and again viewed as, or even turns into, a stranger, a foreigner, an 
alien. 

Physical removal or absence from one’s country, however, invariably 
creates a peculiar inner condition in all exiles, who may live this imposed 
physical removal or absence in as many different ways as the different 
circumstances of their physical removal, the conditions of their host country, 
and the personal and subjective reactions to their new ways of life may be. 
Being an exile, therefore, always entails a deeply felt inner condition; in fact, it 
is precisely this deeply and continuously felt awareness of the original, forced or 


' Stranger: < Lat. extraneus ‘outward,’ < extra ‘outside’; foreigner: < late Lat. foranus 
‘outsider,’ < foras ‘outside’; alien: < Lat. alienus, < alius ‘other.’ The word “exile” (It. 
esule) has an uncertain etymology: Lat. exsul < ex and solum ‘soil, land’: chased away 
from one’s land. For further comments on these and related terms, including the notion of 


otherness, see Monga 33-37. 
Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


12 Dino S. Cevigni 


self-imposed moving away from one’s country that invariably constitutes the 
exiled person’s raison d’étre. 

Being in exile according to the strict sense of the word, therefore, affects 
not only the body but necessarily also the spirit of all those who undergo it. In 
fact, the exile of the spirit may affect also many of those who, still living in their 
own country, suffer because of countless forms of spiritual, mental, or emotional 
alienation and estrangement. In brief, the exilic experience lies betwixt and 
between body and spirit, space and symbol; and as such, every one may 
experience it, as all of this volume’s essays attest. 

Consequently, precisely because the exilic experience affects the human 
spirit, it also becomes, time and again, a fertile ground for countless written 
documents belonging to virtually all literary genres, as this volume documents: 
autobiography (De Marco; Bietolini); poetry in all its forms (Wilson; Raffa; 
Keen; Alfie; Peterson; Rushing; Camps; Burns; Wright); religious writings 
(Maggi); travel literature (Monga); translation and literary studies (Gaudenzi); 
fine arts (Audeh); autobiographical and philosophical writings (Campa); novel 
(Tosi; Kroha; Santini Blum; Rorato; Gola); film (Lombardi). Whether the 
exile is physical or existential, spiritual or intellectual, what concerns the scholar 
in this context is the written document left behind by either the person who lives 
this exilic condition or by someone else who has witnessed that person’s life. 
Thus, the title of this twentieth issue of Annali d’italianistica, “Exile Literature,” 
may appropriately be used to encompass all such written documents that deal 
with exile in all its manifestations, diachronically spanning all centuries of 
Italy’s literary culture, and painfully documenting the individual exile’s 
experience, which is as diverse as the people subjected to it. In fact, the 
volume’s twenty-three essays devoted to exile literature evince a fundamental 
truth: humankind seems to bear within itself the exilic seed, which may grow 
into the tree of physical exile, or the tree of religious, spiritual, intellectual, and 
existential exile, or finally a grafted tree bearing the fruits of both previous ones, 
betwixt and between body and soul, space and symbol. As if it were a gene in 
each of us, exile seems to allow no one to escape it. What counts first and 
foremost, therefore, is the way each individual lives exile. Situated virtually at 
the beginning of Italy’s literary culture, Dante Alighieri’s exilic experience has 
always been, and still is, a model worthy of our attention and imitation. 

Insofar as exile constitutes a painful human experience, religiously and/or 
anthropologically harkening back to Adam’s and Eve’s expulsion from Eden, 
another kind of exile, hardly ever documented and described, should be borne in 
mind. All the written documents broadly defined as exile literature, in fact, 
allude to, but do not describe, the exilic experience of the Other; namely, the 
exilic experience of the countless people who have lived and suffered it in 
silence. The largest majority of people, in fact, suffered exile, betwixt body and 
spirit, without ever being able to write about it. This volume intends to 
commemorate this silent exile as well. 


Exile Literature: Betwixt and Between Body and Soul 13 


It should not go unnoticed, in fact, that the exilic condition that typically 
concerns the scholar is that of an adult male of considerable education, wealth, 
or political influence. Next to him, but more often left behind, are all those — 
and they are the majority — who remained silent: patient wives, innocent 
children, bereaved relatives and friends, and the throngs of faceless exiles and 
refugees, crisscrossing plains, mountains, deserts, and even oceans of all 
continents from time immemorial to the present day. Although the silent exiles’ 
history cannot be written, this volume should also be read as a document to their 
unspeakable story. For these reasons, I was particularly happy to welcome two 
essays, by Campa and Sartini Blum, which deal with women’s exilic 
experiences. Furthermore, throughout the volume, we are reminded that we are 
dealing not just with literary documents, but with chronicles of suffering, such 
as that of the Jewish people’s millenary experience (Tosi; Kroha).’ 

Thus Adl/’s twentieth volume urges all its readers to bear in mind that we 
are dealing with people and not just with literary documents. Accordingly, this 
seventh centenary of Dante’s exile, which we celebrate shortly after the 
beginning of the Christian era’s third millennium, may be viewed as a most 
appropriate occasion to focus once again on exile and the condition of the 
exiled. The twentieth century that has just come to a closing, in fact, may have 
witnessed the exile, in all its deplorable forms and excesses, of the largest 
number of people in humankind’s history, most of whom have been unable to 
make their suffering voices heard. These essays, spanning all centuries of Italy’s 
literary culture, bear witness to the plethora of experiences of suffering destined 
to accompany humankind throughout its history, provide penetrating insights 
into so many literary texts, and offer a useful taxonomy of exile’s 
transformations as a literary, cultural, and existential notion. 

Moving from 1302 to 2002, and from ancient times to our own days, this 
volume’s essays analyze the countless ways in which the experience of exile has 
become over the centuries the privileged /ocus for writing, not just poetry, but 
also philosophical and political treatises, religious meditations, autobiographical 
and travel accounts, and countless other forms. One can thus fully appreciate the 
words of Cicero and Seneca inscribed at the beginning of this introductory note. 
The true exile — Cicero warns us — is the absence of virtue: a challenging 
statement further developed by Seneca, who writes: “No land is a land of exile, 
but rather another patria”; namely, a country and a place where civic and 
religious virtue can be practiced in order to obtain, according to Dante’s 
teaching and practice, beatitude first here in this life and then in the next. 

In fact, the danger that lies beneath the individual’s refusal to accept the 
exilic condition is the return to viewing exile in the manner it was conceived and 
practiced before its total rethinking and transformation by Graeco-Roman and 


2 On the Jewish experience from the perspective of exile, I refer to the recent volume 
edited by Sechi and Santoro: L’ombra lunga dell’esilio: ebraismo e memoria. 


14 Dino S. Cevigni 


Judeo-Christian civilization. We read in Homer, through Achilles’s words to 
Priam, who asks for the return of his son Hector’s body: 


“istee stecae sae’ ] This is the way 

the gods ordained the destiny of men, 

to bear such burdens in our lives, while they 

feel no affliction. At the door of Zeus 

are those two urns of good and evil gifts 

that he may choose for us; and one for whom 

the lightning’s joyous king dips in both urns 

will have by turns bad luck and good. But one 

to whom he sends all evil — that man 

goes contemptible by the will of Zeus; ravenous 

hunger drives him over the wondrous earth, 

unresting, without honor from gods or men.” 
(Iliad 24:525-33; Fitzgerald 630-42)? 


An example worthy of being imitated by all men in past and future history, 
Dante refused to accept the condition of exile as “contemptible.” On the 
contrary, he turned around the notion of being banished as despicable, thereby 
transforming humankind’s exilic condition into a state of honor and source of 
pride. Although, or perhaps precisely because he was forced to taste “the salty 
bread of others,” he turned physical hunger (“fame’”’) into glory (“fama”), while 
wandering from place to place out of monetary needs but not because of 
restlessness, being honored at the same time by “gods and men.” Ultimately, one 
cannot but hope that the exemplary model provided to all of us by Dante will be 
heeded. His treatise on government that he conceived and wrote completely 
while he was in exile, as Cassell reminds us, nurtures the seed of peace while 
harboring Dante’s hope for reconciliation. 


Works Cited 

Homer. The Iliad. Trans. Robert Fitzgerald. New York: Anchor Books, 1974. 

Monga, Luigi. “Travel and Travel Writing: An Historical Overview of Hodoeporics.” 
Annali d’italianistica 14 (1996): 6-54. 

North, Robert. “Exile.” The Oxford Companion to the Bible. Ed. Bruce M. Metzger and 
Michael D. Coogan. New York: Oxford UP, 1993. 209. 

The Oxford Classical Dictionary. 3" ed. Ed. Simon Hornblower and Antony Spawforth. 
Oxford: Oxford UP, 1996. 

Sechi, Maria, Giovanna Santoro, and Maria Antonietta Santoro, eds. L’ombra lunga 
dell’esilio. Firenze: Giuntina, 2002. 


> “In Greece it [exile] was from earliest times a standard consequence of homicide, and 
was as much a religious way of getting rid of a source of pollution as a punishment. Thus 
Zeus in Homer’s /liad is said to make men exiles, driving them like a gadfly over the face 
of the earth (24. 532f.)” (“Exile,” The Oxford Classical Dictionary 580). 


Abstracts 


In his “L’esperienza di Dante ‘exul immeritus’ quale autobiografia universale,” 
Giuseppe De Marco analyzes, by means of textual and intertextual examples, 
the most noble manner in which Dante lived, accepted, and transformed his 
exilic condition, which to us, through a perspective of seven centuries, appears 
to have affected and enhanced the Florentine and greatest Italian poet’s oeuvre 
to a sublime and unsurpassed level. In the second half of his essay, an excursus 
from Petrarch to our times, De Marco in fact points out the extent to which 
Dante’s noblest transformation of his exilic condition forms a constant point of 
reference throughout the centuries for all those who experienced, or did not 
experience exile. 

Robert Wilson, in “Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid,” contrasts Dante’s 
exile with Ovid’s confinement to a faraway place. Although Dante and Ovid are 
often grouped together as poets of exile, a fundamental difference marks the 
nature of the two poets’ exile. Ovid is relegated rather than exiled, so that he is 
confined to Tomis, whilst Dante is excluded from Florence. This basic 
difference of orientation resides at the basis of differences in Dante’s and Ovid’s 
treatment of their places of exile in particular, and may also explain the reasons 
Dante does not refer much to Ovid’s exile in relation to his own (in addition, 
obviously, to the culpa to which Ovid admitted, while Dante could not and did 
not). 

Focusing on Dante’s oeuvre, for Guy P. Raffa, in his “Dante’s Poetics of 
Exile ,” Dante’s exile, figuring as both misfortune and opportunity, is arguably 
the most personal manifestation of the poet’s dialectical imagination. This 
experience and conception of exile thus becomes the catalyst for Dante’s 
dialectical hermeneutics (“both — and” instead of “either/or”) and what most 
distinguishes the poet’s hermeneutics from the Pauline-Augustinian model of 
conversion. To develop this argument — and to sharpen the distinction between 
“conversion” and “exile” — Raffa draws on Jakobson’s distinction between 
metaphoric substitution, whereby the old life is eradicated for the new one; on 
metonymic contiguity, which keeps both past and present in play; and also on 
historical and theological representations of exile in the medieval imagination. 

In “Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile,” Catherine Keen analyzes 
Cino’s poetry, in which the poet portrays himself as a foreigner, or even as an 
infidel, who can scarcely be assimilated by the surrounding community, thereby 
“displaying an exilic obsession with distance and loss” that affects his lady as 
well. In so doing, Cino — Keen argues — deploys a form of “poetics of 
exclusion,” which shows similarities with a Cavalcantian “exilic outlook” 
without ever embracing totally Cavalcanti’s position. Keen’s conclusion is 
remarkable for her insight into Cino’s poetics: “Even though his psychological 
attachment to binary pairings means that he may have to represent his exilic 
transitions as an adoption of Otherness, he still prefers to exist as a nameable 
outsider than to probe the ambiguities of exile too far, and so risk Cavalcantian 
self-annihilation.” 

In “Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Cecco Angiolieri, Pietro de’ Faitinelli, and 
Pieraccio Tedaldi,” Fabian Alfie examines the theme of exile in three 


Annali d’italianisitica 20 (2002) 


16 Exile Literature: Abstracts 


fourteenth-century poets, Cecco Angiolieri, Pietro de’ Faitinelli, and Pieraccio 
Tedaldi, who suffered exile from their native cities for reasons not well know to 
scholars. Their personal tragedies inspired the three of them to compose sonnets 
that expressed their anguish. Yet, their poems are more than mere outlets for 
personal pain, for they are finely tuned documents that demonstrate the authors’ 
literary self-consciousness. Thus this essay examines the __ intertextual 
relationships among the three works, showing how each author builds upon the 
work of his predecessors. 

Thomas Peterson, in “Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and 
Petrarch,” focuses on two highly representative figures of early Humanism and 
the late Renaissance, thereby showing the extent to which the metaphoric- 
symbolic notion and poetics of exile continued and evolved throughout the 
centuries. Approaching the topic of exile in Petrarch and Tasso intertextually, 
Peterson argues for a redemptive return on the part of the principal characters of 
the Rerum vulgarium fragmenta and the Gerusalemme liberata from Babylon 
back to Jerusalem: namely, to a life of religious devotion and sacred community. 
The differences in literary genre — Peterson argues — do not present an 
obstacle but rather an opportunity to study similar “figural” presentations of the 
“battle of the soul” in Petrarch and Tasso. By examining the lexical and thematic 
incidences of exile in these two authors’ masterpieces, Peterson is thus able to 
draw parallels between the life changes of Tasso’s heroes (and the Christian 
army) and the transformation of Petrarch’s “lover at a distance” into a Davidic 
singer in religious retreat and contemplation. By focusing on shared elements in 
the works, from stylistics and rhetorical dispositio to the Augustinean problem 
of the will and the historical-prophetic mission of the Church, Peterson 
demonstrates the sacred role of poetry in the vision of the two poets as a means 
to guide the individual sinner, as well as the community, out of the earthly 
bondage. 

Armando Maggi, in “The Soul’s Exile: Devotional Literature and Renaissance 
Culture in Guido Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni,” studies how, in Casoni’s 
devotional text, “cielo” at once signifies God’s presence in the creation and 
man’s exile from God. Paradoxically, the world and its imposing skies are the 
locus where God approaches us and distances Himself from us. “Cielo” is 
indeed a complex signifier, for it testifies both to a presence and a radical 
absence. In brief, this post-Tridentine author (1561-1642) evidences the extent 
to which the view of humankind’s exile from heaven endures and informs 
writing. 

Writing from the perspective of travel literature, Luigi Monga, in “‘Doom’d to 
Wander’: Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative,” analyzes the 
extent to which exile, an obvious form of spatial displacement, is connected to 
travel, and thus writing about exile is akin to travel narrative. Despotic rulers, 
political or religious leaders dispatched the best of their citizens from their 
native country. Setting aside the most famous Italian exiles of the early modern 
period, from Dante to Machiavelli, Casanova and Foscolo, Monga selects a few 
examples of French and British expatriates who chose, by direct authority or 
personal decision, to seek freedom and serenity abroad. In most such cases Italy 
was the final end of their escape. Avoiding the troubles of 1588, an “annus 


Exile Literature: Abstracts 17 


mirabilis” in a continent fraught with religious conflicts, and “doom’d to 
wander” abroad during the 17"-century “Great Rebellion,” the most promising 
youth of France and England escaped to Italy, finding there the foundation of an 
intellectual “locus amoenus.” These bright individuals involved in the Grand 
Tour wrote about their personal experiences, shaping a widely read travel 
narrative that helped maintain an endless flow of tourists. On the other hand, 
Cardinal de Retz, the archbishop of Paris who opposed a despotic Louis XIV, 
chose to set off to Rome, pursued by the wrath of his king and the loathing of his 
religious brothers. Returning to France, an apparent loser in an uneven fight and 
forced to an internal exile in a faraway monastery, he continued nevertheless his 
battle, writing a biased, but influential autobiography, a memorial of his struggle 
that is also a dazzling travel narrative. 

Nicola Bietolini, in “I ‘concatenati dolori’. Esilio, scrittura e censura 
nell’autobiografia letteraria e ne ‘L’esule’ di Pietro Giannone,” examines the 
many ways in which the exilic experience of Giannone is reflected in his 
writings, primarily in his Vita and the poem “L’esule.” What makes Giannone’s 
exilic experience even more troubling (and disturbing for us, as we look back at 
it) is the incessant persecution of the ecclesiastical authorities even after 
Giannone had left Naples. To such a continued persecution we owe the 
autobiography, the poem mentioned above, and related passages in the author’s 
works, as Giannone seeks to portray himself through the literary image of the 
virtuous citizen who is oppressed by a corrupt and corrupting political and civic 
system. In these attempts Giannone emerges as a victim of a cruel political and 
religious power: an exile by antonomasia. 

Focusing on Ugo Foscolo, the Romantic era’s and the Italian Risorgimento’s 
best known exile, Robert A. Rushing, in “Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s 
‘A Zacinto,”” re-examines Foscolo’s famous sonnet of exile in the light of Van 
Den Abbeele’s 1992 Travel As Metaphor. The essay examines several of the 
ways that Van Den Abeele’s model of travel (where the stable space of the home 
is used to orient and understand the experience of travel) is complicated by 19"- 
century Italy. In fact, for Foscolo to think about home, he must pass through 
Italian, Greek, Austrian, and Venetian detours. Finally, the article looks not only 
at the ways in which these detours inform and shape the sonnet, but also at the 
epistemological consequences of “uprooted” travel. 

In “Exile, Translation, Return: Ugo Foscolo in England,” Cosetta Gaudenzi 
employs translation as a critical concept to study the work of Ugo Foscolo in 
England. The article sheds light on Foscolo’s role in the process that made 
Henry Francis Cary’s version of the Commedia (1814) the first authoritative 
translation into English, and examines the reasons behind Foscolo’s shift in exile 
from writing literature to practicing cultural translation and transference. 

Aida Audeh’s “Images of Dante’s Exile in 19'-century France” brings the 
reader back to Dante’ s exile and the extent to which it influenced French 
imagination in the 19" century. Aida Audeh, in fact, shows how, in the midst of 
the great interest in Dante in French arts and letters in the 19" century, a sub- 
genre appeared on the basis of biographical legends surrounding the period of 
Dante’s exile. Investigation into this sub-genre reveals a complex interchange of 
historical facts, anecdotes, fancy, and outright errors, producing images of 


18 Exile Literature: Abstracts 


Dante’s exile unique to France. Cultural manifestations of interest in Dante’s 
exile are so extensive as to necessitate a full-length study of his role in shaping 
painting, sculpture, and popular imagery. References to Dante’s exile appear in 
works of fiction and in biography, as well as in commentary accompanying 
French translations of the poet’s works. What is significant and striking is 
French literature’s reformulation and embellishment of history or biography 
concerning Dante’s exile and its effect on interpreting French art. 

At the beginning of the 20" century, Dino Campana (1885-1932) becomes a 
profoundly suffering prototype of the 20"-century notion of exile as alienation 
and estrangement. In “Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica 
della sua opera,” Assumpta Camps analyzes Campana’s multifaceted “esilio 
interiore,” whose causes may be found not only in the poet’s mental and 
psychological instability but also in what Mario Luzi calls the modern poet’s 
“deposizione dal trono” and existential disenchantment. In Dino Campana — 
Assumpta Camps points out — the poet’s inner condition is transformed into the 
image of a voyage, viewed as a flight from his inner exile, and yet also a symbol 
of his inner restlessness, always looking for, but never finding, a /ocus of 
spiritual purification and peace. 

Moving away from the symbolic to focus on the exile’s ever-present horrific real 
and historical element, Annunziata O. Campa’s “Utopia e disincanto: l’esilio 
degli intellettuali spagnoli nella diaspora della Guerra Civile” focuses on the 
Spanish Civil War, which deeply affected and divided Italy also. A crucial event 
that still represents a point of reference in contemporary history, as well as a 
debate about political categories and accepted ideologies, the Spanish Civil War 
is also a reflection on the dramatic role played by the Spanish intelligentsia and 
the struggle of Europe’ s intellectuals during the first half of the 20" century. The 
nationalist regime’s wave of repression produced a large diaspora of exiles, 
among whom the philosopher Maria Zambrano, whose exile of forty-five years 
brought her to many friendly countries in America and Europe, including eleven 
years in Italy. Through her essays and poetry, Zambrano became the archetypal 
figure of the intellectual who represented the struggle of an entire people against 
repression. Her tragic experience allowed her to elaborate a phenomenology of 
exile seen as her “motherland”: a literary rendition of an experience that can no 
longer be uniquely appropriated by a male adult. 

Giuseppe Tosi, in “Dall’attesa alla storia-esilio. La memoria e l’identita in Se 
non ora, quando? di Primo Levi,” explores the primary motives of Levi’s novel: 
the destruction of the Ashkenazi Jewish communities during the Second World 
War; the sense of uprootedness among the survivors, which impelled their 
participation in the partisan resistance; the cultural dissolution experienced by 
the survivors, including their estrangement from religion and its eschatological 
dimension; and their entry into a history-exile in which identity and memory are 
irredeemably compromised. The sudden disappearance of the past imposes its 
shadow on the survivors, permanently marking their attempts to rebuild their 
lives. 

Lucienne Kroha, in “Exile in Giorgio Bassani’s Work,” analyzes the exile 
motif as it figures in three first-person novels in which the same 
protagonist/narrator tells the story of his experiences as a Jew in pre-war Fascist 


Exile Literature: Abstracts 19 


Italy. The story of his coming-to-grips as an exile in his own country after the 
implementation of the Race Laws of 1938 becomes a sort of Bildungsroman, in 
which both the mirage of integration and the “ghetto mentality” are likened to 
the comforting maternal cocoon of pre-oedipal narcissism. On the other hand, 
the reality of Jewish life under Emancipation is described as demanding the 
mature, manly acceptance of exile or oedipal difference. The gendered 
elaboration of the exile motif reflects doubts about Jewish manliness rampant in 
post-Darwinian pseudo-scientific discourses of Jewish identity. 

Focusing on the exilic experience described by a woman, Cinzia Sartini Blum, 
in “Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia,” examines exile 
as a precondition for nomadic adventures of thought in the work of Toni 
Maraini. Unlike other members of her intellectually prominent family, Toni 
Maraini assumes the authorial persona of an exile from the Western intellectual 
establishment. From this perspective, exile is not the conventional metaphor for 
the (post)modern state of existential alienation, but a revived figure for an 
ethically and politically driven move toward intercultural understanding. Rather 
than evoke nostalgia for lost origins, authenticity, and meaning, exile points to a 
liminal place, beyond old and new intellectual boundaries, where it is still 
possible to search history for enduring human values. 

In “L’arte di perdere peso di Mario Fortunato, ovvero il paradigma dell’ esilio in 
eta contemporanea,” Laura Rorato seeks to situate the notion of exile within a 
post-modern context. Whereas historically the notion of exile has unfolded in its 
constant reference to an origin, in postmodern literature, after the loss of a 
master narrative and faith in history, exile seems to lack its referent to an origin. 
Consequently, exile becomes a permanent existential condition wherein the “I” 
and the “Other” seem to coincide, and the traditional dichotomy between home 
and foreign land is taken over by that between body and mind. In Fortunato’s 
novel, its characters’ maniacal attention to the body represents their attempt at 
overcoming this body-soul dichotomy in an effort to re-establish order where 
chaos has taken over. In reality, Laura Rorato concludes, in order to transcend 
exile’s condition one must accept one’s precariousness and all things’ mortality, 
thereby learning how to look at the world from a different perspective; or, as 
Calvino (to whom Fortunato refers) teaches us, one must learn “the art of losing 
weight.” 

Introducing a young author, Sabina Gola, in her essay “Grammatica 0 nuova 
grammatica dell’esilio,” shows how a young author, Diego Marani, reflects on 
the notion of exile taking as the novel’s leading motif the wars and the 
consequent exile that have affected so many people in a small European country, 
Finland, and also all European peoples in the 20th century. In Marani’s novel, 
the linguistic notion of grammar becomes emblematic of one’s existence, which 
everyone seeks to live according to certain norms. The novel’s characters, 
accordingly, seek to live their own lives, and thus, symbolically, to re-create a 
new grammar capable of allowing them to live their lives as exiled. The key 
element in reading the novel, thus, becomes language; namely, every human 
being’s, and consequently also every exile’s, sacred patrimony, and, at the same 
time, an element of socialization and isolation. 

Jennifer Burns, in “Exile within Italy: Interactions between Past and Present 


20 Exile Literature: Abstracts 


‘Homes’ in Texts in Italian by Migrant Writers,” considers representations of 
exile in recent novels by three italophone migrant writers: Ron Kubati 
(Albanian), Mohsen Melliti and Salah Methnani (both Tunisian). It analyzes the 
extent to which economic migration is figured in these texts as a form of exile, 
and considers the ways in which the relationship between “home” and “exile” is 
represented and manipulated in these narratives. 

Simona Wright, in “Esperienza dell’esilio e poesia in Gézim Hajdari,” 
discusses how the face of Italy has been transformed over the past twenty years 
by the phenomenon of immigration, which has wrought changes at the political, 
economic, and social levels. In this regard, a group of immigrants has sought to 
participate actively in the national culture, and foremost among them is Gézim 
Hajdari. This essay analyzes his complete poetic oeuvre, in which are reflected 
the various phases of the immigrant experience as well as the thoughts and 
feelings that accompany it. 

Giancarlo Lombardi, in “Parigi o cara: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape in 
Contemporary Cinema and Fiction,” focuses on the portrayal of the community 
of Italian terrorists in exile in Paris as presented in a play, a documentary, and a 
full-length feature film. Locus of “abjection,” land of apparent shelter and 
freedom, Paris is the maze in which former terrorists lose themselves while 
escaping justice. It is also the repository of unconfessed and unconfessable 
secrets. It is a place that former terrorists always contrast with the Italian cities 
and villages in which they were born; it is an abyss from whose depth they are 
granted blindness and vision: the same blindness and vision through which they 
form new perspectives on their past actions. 

Anthony Cassell, in “The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation: Monarchia 
3:16.16-18,” provides a convincing explanation of a difficult passage of Dante’s 
political treatise, which thus offers all exiled people, betwixt and between body 
and soul, an additional example of an exemplary conduct and interpretation of 
exile. When the long-exiled Dante found himself again having to assert his 
opinions on the separation and correlation of the priestly and imperial powers in 
the Monarchia, he knew that he was entering a controversy that had simmered in 
different guises for centuries and that he directly blamed for his own banishment 
from his native city. Although Dante placed his emphasis on an Aristotelian 
earthly happiness, he nevertheless followed St. Thomas Aquinas, and others 
before him, who had treated the blessedness of this life as ultimately ancillary to 
eternal blessedness. Accordingly, Dante reiterated similar caution in the wording 
of the universally accepted formulas in his last lines. The Poet, forced to wander 
and seek his shelter in strangers’ lands, had always recognized the far greater 
importance of eternal blessedness, making its attainment the ineffable object and 
culmination of the last canticle of his Commedia, dedicated to the very friend on 
whose behalf he composed the Monarchia. Dante here records, in his waning 
exiled years, his simple, optimistic Christian conviction, that, despite the bitterly 
salted bread of implacable earthly tribulation, he viewed life on earth as blest, 
naturally, sacramentally, and directly, by a loving, omnipotent God. From a life 
of expulsion Dante writes both of unity and of his own ultimate usefulness and 
belonging. 


Giuseppe De Marco 








L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 
quale autobiografia universale’ 


I. L’esilio — come é€ noto — ha costituito un punctum dolens nella lacerante 
biografia dantesca, ma soprattutto un topos fondamentale dell’opera del divin 
Poeta; difatti, come scrive Pasquini, “se di qualcosa non é dato dubitare nel 
giudizio che la posterita ha costruito di Dante, tale € certamente |’importanza 
dell’esilio nella sua vita: il fatto che esso abbia segnato una svolta decisiva 
nell’esistenza e nell’opera del nostro autore”.' Nelle opere di Dante, il tema 
dell’esilio si profila inizialmente come amara sofferenza per |’ingiustizia subita 
e come straziante nostalgia per la lontananza dalla patria. Ma nell’ iter artistico 
l’asprezza dello sdegno e del dolore sfuma, fondendosi con la nostalgia e il 
rimpianto delle anime purgatoriali, in una malinconica accettazione del 
peregrinare, scevra da ogni speranza nella giustizia umana. La progressiva 
perdita dell’individualita del dolore culmina con la fine del viaggio ideale 
(Paradiso, XVII e XXV), dove la condizione dell’esule diventa simbolo 
universale di un’umanita sradicata dal divino. 

Non a caso, sradicamento ed esilio costituiscono, tra gli altri, due elementi 
della genesi della letteratura italiana’ — “exilium quasi extra solum” secondo 
Isidoro di Siviglia (V, XXVII, 28) -; essa, difatti, nasce all’insegna della 
“mobilita” e dell’“erranza”’: 


L’itineranza connessa all’esilio ha determinato per Dante lo sganciamento culturale da 
Firenze, un’accelerazione del processo di superamento dell’esperienza stilnovistica e 
l’insorgere di una prospettiva sovramunicipale e di un intento teorico e critico, che sfocia 
in un progetto di organizzazione della cultura e della lingua (come testimoniano il De 
vulgari eloquentia e il Convivio) e, insieme, di una poesia universale e di una figura 
ideale di poeta-profeta che gia affiora nelle rime dell’esilio e trova la sua pit completa 
realizzazione nella Commedia, con la quale Dante é consapevole di costruire l’epos 


* Questo saggio costituisce una sorta di rivisitazione, integrazione e aggiornamento del 
volume da me pubblicato nel 1996 dal titolo: Mitografia dell’esule. Da Dante al 
Novecento. 

' Pasquini, La parabola dell'esilio 122; tra gli altri contributi, al riguardo, é doveroso 
almeno segnalare: Marchi, Dante in esilio; lannucci , L'esilio di Dante: “per colpa di 
tempo e di fortuna", AA. VV., Dante e le citta dell'esilio, Russo, Dante exul inmeritus: 
variazioni compositive sul /dal tema; De Marco, Dante “exul inmeritus": dalle Rime alla 
Divina Commedia, in ID. , Mitografia dell’esule. Da Dante al Novecento 17-33. 

? Si rinvia a Asor Rosa, La fondazione del laico, in Letteratura italiana, dir. da ID. , Le 
Questioni, Torino, Einaudi, 1986, V, pp. 90-93, ora in ID. , Genus italicum. Saggi sulla 
identita letteraria italiana nel corso del tempo (34-142). 


Annali da'Italianistica 20 (2002) 


22 Giuseppe De Marco 


volgare e cristiano, originale ricreazione della poesia alta dell’epos latino. 
(Mercuri 230) 


Occorre, inevitabilmente, risemantizzare — come ha proposto e analizzato 
Battistini, attraverso un’argomentazione elaborata e sottile — il concetto di esilio, 
“restituendolo a tutta la sua tragicita medievale”.* Piuttosto che leggere l’esilio 
dall’ottica storica codificata nella civilta classica da Seneca nel dialogo Ad 
Helviam matrem e da Plutarco, dove l’avvenimento viene trasfigurato con il 
sostegno imperturbabile e, nel contempo, fiero di una consolatio, nel cui solco 
della tradizione, d’altra parte, si incanala talora lo stesso Dante, sembra pit 
opportuno considerare la brutalita della condanna, regolare per quei tempi, 
secondo la quale, nel caso che Dante e gli altri condannati si fossero rifiutati di 
pagare l’ammenda imposta, “omnia bona talis non solventis publicentur, 
vastentur et destruantur, et vastata et destructa remaneant in comuni.” Inoltre, 
“si quis predictorum ullo tempore in fortiam dicti comunis pervenerit, talis 
perveniens igne comburatur sic quod moriatur’’: é la condanna — feroce — che il 
10 marzo 1302 Cante de’ Gabrielli da Gubbio emetteva contro Dante e contro 
altri quattordici imputati. Tenuto conto della veemenza irosa, scandita dalla 
sequenza dei verbi prescrittivi, non si puod non concordare col Petrocchi, allorché 
definisce “la lettura” di questo “celebre documento” come “uno dei momenti pit 
impressionanti per chi intraprende lo studio di Dante”.° 

Prima di procedere, € opportuno riflettere — seppure fugacemente — sul 
concetto 0 nozione di esilio vigente nella cultura dell’epoca. In riferimento 
all’originaria legislazione germanica, colui che é colpito dal bando é destinato a 
morire come persona, in quanto collocato fuori della legge, privato di 
qualsivoglia tutela giuridica; eliminato dalla societas, non gode pit della pace 
cittadina (Friedlosigkeit), insomma perde la civitas. Appellato wargus, lupo, 
obbligato a vagolare “per silvas”, vede incalzare contro di sé la sua gente, 
serrato fuori, usurpare il diritto della sua stessa vita; egli pud essere 
impunemente vilipeso. ° Successivamente, la giurisprudenza tentd di conciliare 


} Battistini, L ‘estremo approdo: Ravenna, in AA. VV. , Dante e le citta dell 'esilio (158). 
* Le citazioni delle sentenze sono tratte, qui e altrove, dalla sezione Documenti danteschi. 
* Petrocchi, Dal priorato alla condanna: le vicende d'uno sconfitto, in 1D. , Vita di Dante 
(90). 

® Sul bando, pena dell’antica legislazione germanica di poi ripresa dagli statuti comunali 
medioevali, si veda Leicht, Storia del diritto italiano. Il diritto privato 25-27; Crifd, 
Esilio, in Enciclopedia del diritto, XV, 712-22. Indicativo e fondamentale si rivela lo 
studio di Ghisalberti, La condanna al bando nel diritto comune, “Archivio Giuridico 
‘Filippo Serafini’”, CLVIII, 1960, pp. 3-75, nel quale, tra l’altro si rileva: “[. . . ] Pistituto 
germanico implicava, come I’esilio romano, |’espulsione del reo dalla comunita, in modo 
che egli non partecipava pit della condizione di chi vi apparteneva, ma, a differenza 
dell’esule romano. il bandito diventava il nemico di tutto, privo di ogni diritto e passibile 
di ogni offesa da parte di chicchessia, onde giustamente si definisce il bando germanico 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 23 


l’istituto del bando con il canone del Corpus iuris civilis e, di conseguenza, 
equiparo il bannitus al fuoriuscito, esamind se il bannitus potesse considerarsi 
servus poenae e per questo paragonarsi al condannato a morte dell’antica Roma. 
Quantunque alcune di queste decodificazioni si mutassero lievemente in senso 
indulgente, la trattatistica civile-canonica persevero nel riconoscere una aderente 
analogia giuridica tra l’esiliato e lo scomunicato. “E cosi Dante, lui un tempo 
wargus, lupo errante per la selva secondo il diritto germanico, ritornera nemico 
dei veri lupi che insidiano la cerchia dell’ovile Firenze, libero perché riaccolto in 
giusto consorzio civile, erede dell’antica tradizione romana, ripresa e sancita 
dall’Impero cristiano” (Rigo 148-49). Per Dante, quindi, la /ex deve collimare 
con lo ius commune 0 ius romanum. 

Nei primi anni dell’esilio, l’intento di Dante sara volto a proiettare 
un’immagine di sé e della sua esperienza attraverso il filtro della scrittura, 
giustificato in questo tentativo dal De Consolatione boeziano e dalle 
Confessiones di Agostino. Pertanto, gli appare lecito parlare di sé, per 
difendersi dall’infamia dell’esilio, come Severino Boezio, e per addottrinare 
Pumanita, come Agostino. 

Una delle prime testimonianze — indirette — circa l’esilio di Dante, viene 
registrata da Giovanni Villani, il quale, dopo aver ricordato la vicinanza della 
casa dell’ Alighieri alla sua, puntualizza che il poeta “sanza altra colpa co la detta 
parte bianca fue cacciato e sbandito di Firenze” (336); e a proposito della 
Commedia aggiunge: “Bene si dilettd in quella Commedia di garrire e sclamare 
a guisa di poeta, forse in parte pil che non si convenia; ma forse il suo esilio 
gliele fece” (337). Dunque, per il cronista la composizione del poema é@ 
influenzata dalla condizione di esule di Dante, diversamente dalle altre sue opere 
scritte sempre negli anni dell’esilio, per le quali la valutazione risulta del tutto 
positiva: 


[. . . ] € poi quando fue in esilio fece da XX canzoni morali e d’amore molto eccellenti, e 
in tra Il’altre fece tre nobili pistole; una mando al reggimento di Firenze dogliendosi del 
suo esilio senza colpa; l’altra mando a lo ’mperadore quand’era a |’assedio di Brescia, 
riprendendolo della sua stanza, quasi profetezzando; la terza a’ cardinali italiani 
quand’era la vacazione dopo la morte di papa Chimento, accid che s’accordassono a 
eleggere papa italiano: tutte in latino con alto dittato, e con eccellenti sententie e 
autoritadi, le quali furono molto commendate da’ savi intenditori. 

(Nuova cronica 336) 


Vero é che — pur tra le imprecisioni di alcuni dati — questa del Villani é la prima 
biografia di Dante, allestita a non molti anni dalla sua morte, e si rivela gia come 
una sorta di riflessione critica, in quanto il cronista offre un’interpretazione 





come perdita di pace, Friedlosigkeit, pena veramente capitale, comprensiva nella 
pienezza di suoi effetti della persona e dei beni, tendente a togliere la vita e il patrimonio, 
ed escludente colui che ne é colpito da ogni tutela giuridica” (9). 


24 Giuseppe De Marco 


negativo-positiva dell’Alighieri, che seppure “non bene sapeva conversare co’ 
laici” (337), tuttavia “per l’altre sue virtudi e scienza e valore di tanto cittadino 
ne pare che si convenga di dargli perpetua memoria in questa nostra cronica, con 
tutto che per le sue nobili opere lasciateci in scritture facciamo di lui vero 
testimonio e onorabile fama a la nostra cittade” (337-38). Risultava essere, ad 
ogni modo, una redintegratio: quella memoria, ignominiosa, che Cante de’ 
Gabrielli aveva intenzionalmente ascritta negli statuti cittadini, si innalzava a 
“perpetua memoria” nelle pagine della cronistoria dell’epoca. ’ 

Le tappe della peregrinatio dell’esilio dantesco risultano note soltanto in 
maniera parziale, sovente estrapolate da accenni del poema e delle altre opere; 
pertanto, € opportuno instaurare un dialogo costante e diretto con il testo 
dantesco, per restituire allo stesso anche il ruolo protagonistico che gli spetta. 

Cosi, in un’accorata pagina del Convivio, suffragata da tematiche 
passionali-emotive, viene a sancirsi, nei secoli, la figura dell’esilio e dell’uomo 
exul: 


Ahi, piaciuto fosse al dispensatore de l’universo che la cagione della mia scusa mai non 
fosse stata! ché né altri contro me avria fallato, né io sofferto avria pena ingiustamente, 
pena, dico, d’essilio e di povertate. Poi che fu piacere de li cittadini de la bellissima e 
famosissima figlia di Roma, Fiorenza, di gittarmi fuori del suo dolce seno — nel quale 
nato e nutrito fui in fino al colmo de la vita mia, e nel quale, con buona pace di quella, 
desidero con tutto lo cuore di riposare |’animo stancato e terminare lo tempo che m’é 
dato —-, per le parti quasi tutte a le quali questa lingua si stende, peregrino, quasi 
mendicando, sono andato, mostrando contra mia voglia la piaga de la fortuna, che suole 
ingiustamente al piagato molte volte essere imputata. Veramente io sono stato legno 
sanza vela e sanza governo, portato a diversi porti e foci e liti dal vento secco che vapora 
la dolorosa povertade; e sono apparito a li occhi a molti che forseché per alcuna fama in 
altra forma m’aveano imaginato, nel conspetto de’ quali non solamente mia persona 
invilio, ma di minor pregio si fece ogni opera, si gia fatta, come quella che fosse a fare. 
(Convivio, 1, m1, 3-5)* 


Il brano, solcato da toni alti e vibranti — preludio a quelli solenni del XVII del 
Paradiso (vv. 55-60) -, esprime uno dei momenti di pil elevata e inerme 
rivelazione circa il significato del profondo turbamento dell’esilio e delle 
conseguenti umiliazioni che da esso deriveranno. Inoltre, la pagina é trapunta da 
un compatto intreccio di espedienti figurali e retorici, quali metafore, 
circonlocuzioni, figure etimologiche, che mirano energicamente su ridondanze 
allitterative, parallelismi di clausole ritmiche e annominazioni verbali, con un 
esito globale di prosa versificata di tenace carica emotiva e di elevata 
constructio stilistica. Si traduce cosi, con mirabile intensita emotivo-espressiva, 


’ | rilievi si devono a Miglio, Snodi della biografia dantesca, in “Per correr miglior 
acque...”’. 
8 Si cita dall’edizione a cura di Vasoli. 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 25 


la consapevolezza di una vita effimera e insidiata, oltraggiata nella sua umana 
dignita e quasi minimizzata, se non svilita nel suo valore. Ciononostante, la 
linea discorsiva lambisce accenti palpitanti di una rilevata denuncia esistenziale, 
ma tende anche a verificare ed esaminare la essenza stessa dell’esperienza 
letteraria. Di qui, I’esilio quale momento di elevazione dell’uomo sulla 
mutabilita e sulla occasionalita della storia. Pertanto, non stupisce il fatto che 
Dante affermi nel De vulgari eloquentia (1,V1,3) che l’esperienza dell’esilio 
crea un punto di esplorazione fausto, al fine di scrutare la degenerazione del 
mondo. II poeta mediante l’esilio pud ideare e costruire la figura del letterato, la 
cui patria non risulta piu un comune (citta), ma il mondo intero: 


Nos autem, cui mundus est patria velut piscibus equor, quanquam Sarnum biberimus ante 
dentes et Florentiam adeo diligamus ut, quia dileximus, exilium patiamur iniuste, rationi 
magis quam sensui spatulas nostri iudicii podiamus. Et quamvis ad voluptatem nostram 
sive nostre sensualitatis quietem in terris amenior locus quam Florentia non existat, 
revolventes et poetarum et aliorum scriptorum volumina quibus mundus universaliter et 
membratim describitur, ratiocinantesque in nobis situationes varias mundi locorum et 
eorum habitudinem ad utrunque polum et circulum equatorem, multas esse perpendimus 
firmiterque censemus et magis nobiles et magis delitiosas et regiones et urbes quam 
Tusciam et Florentiam, unde sumus oriundus et civis, et plerasque nationes et gentes 
delectabiliori atque utiliori sermone uti quam Latinos. 

(De vulgari eloquentia, 1, V1, 3)’ 


In stretto collegamento con I’emblematico brano del Convivio (I, III), si rinviene 
un’allusione al proprio avverso fato, allorché Dante afferma: “‘Eiecta maxima 
parte florum de sinu tuo, Florentia, nequicquam Trinacriam Totila secundus 
adivit’”;'° mentre, in altro luogo, dove tratta del prestigio e della fama che pud 


provenire dalla pratica del volgare, |’Alighieri dice: “[. . . ] nos ipsi novimus, qui 


° Si cita dall’edizione a cura di Mengaldo, di cui segue la traduzione: “Ma noi, la cui 
patria é il mondo come per i pesci il mare, benché abbiamo bevuto nel Sarno prima di 
mettere i denti e amiamo Firenze a tal punto da patire ingiustamente, proprio perché 
l'abbiamo amata, l’esilio, noi appoggeremo la bilancia del nostro giudizio alla ragione 
piuttosto che al sentimento. Certo ai fini di una vita piacevole e insomma 
dell’appagamento dei nostri sensi non c’é sulla terra luogo pil amabile di Firenze; 
tuttavia a leggere e rileggere i volumi dei poeti e degli altri scrittori che descrivono il 
mondo nell’assieme e nelle sue parti, e a riflettere dentro di noi alle varie posizioni delle 
localita del mondo e al loro rapporto con I’uno e I’altro polo e col circolo equatoriale, 
abbiamo tratto questa convinzione, e la sosteniamo con fermezza: che esistono molte 
regioni e citta pid nobili e pit gradevoli della Toscana e di Firenze, di cui sono nativo e 
cittadino, e che ci sono svariati popoli e genti che hanno una lingua pil piacevole e piu 
utile di quella degli italiani” (53). 

'0 II, VI, 4 (“‘Strappata dal tuo seno, Fiorenza, la maggior parte dei fiori, invano il 
secondo Totila si spinse in Trinacria’™ (183). 


26 Giuseppe De Marco 


huius dulcedine glorie nostrum exilium postergamus”. '' Difatti, la poesia é per 
Dante l’occasione impareggiabile, al fine di ridestare negli uomini I’amore per la 
giustizia: qui risiede la missione di Dante, poeta segregato, vox profetica, che fa 
dell’esilio un vessillo che lo distingue e lo edifica sul disfacimento di Fiorenza e 
della penisola italiana, per cui l’exu/ inmeritus puo alteramente rallegrarsi della 
propria sorte: 


E io, che ascolto nel parlar divino 
consolarsi e dolersi 
cosi alti dispersi, 
l’essilio che m’é dato, onor mi tegno: 
ché, se giudizio o forza di destino 
vuol pur che il mondo versi 
i bianchi fiori in persi, 
cader co’ buoni é pur di lode degno. 
(Rime CIV, vv. 73-80)" 


La canzone Tre donne in torno al cor scaturisce da una profonda riflessione 
sull’esperienza dell’esilio, rigorosamente connessa al tema della iustitia. L’exul 
inmeritus inserisce il suo personale destino nell’universale capovolgimento di 
valori che vede il predominio della feritas e della iniquita. Le “tre donne” che 
trovano scampo e si annidano presso il cuore del poeta, lacere e lacrimanti, 
simboleggiano difatti - come propone il figlio di Dante, Pietro nel suo 
commento a /nf. VI, 73 — rispettivamente la Giustizia universale, la Giustizia 
umana e la Legge naturale, anch’esse esiliate dal consorzio civile insieme a tutte 
le pit nobili virtt. Dante, pertanto, si dichiara fiero e intemerato di una sventura 
che lo associa a esuli cosi insigni, in un contesto storico rovinoso, in cui i probi 
sono indotti a perire: ma la intrepidezza di questa asserzione si intride 
inopinatamente nella contristata nostalgia per Firenze e nella consapevolezza di 
un accoramento ora purtroppo intollerabile. A buona ragione, dunque, 7re 
donne intorno al cor é stata autorevolmente definita da Contini come “la grande 
canzone dell’esilio” (452). 

Non vanno trascurate, in tale contesto, le rime Se vedi li occhi miei (CV) e 
soprattutto Amor, da che convien (CXVI). “Questa vertu” (la giustizia) 
all’inizio del verso dell’ultima terzina, “pace” in chiusura della strofa e di tutto il 
testo costituiscono i due termini chiave del sonetto Se vedi li occhi miei, in cui 
vibra, con un’intonazione acuta dell’apostrofe profetica, |’"amarezza, lo sdegno 
per la situazione politica presente e il bramoso protendersi verso la giustizia, che 
~almeno nella spes del poeta —, deve ricreare il mondo umano secondo |’ordine 
perfetto del mondo divino, perseverando la pace. Invece nella parte finale (vv. 


'' 1 XVII, 6 (“noi che per la dolcezza di questa gloria ci buttiamo dietro le spalle l’esilio” 
(135). 
'2 Si cita dall’edizione a cura di Contini, in Opere minori. 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 27 


71-84) di Amor, da che convien, il poeta dichiara che, legato com’é dal nuovo 
amore, anche se crollassero le ragioni dell’esilio e i concittadini, mossi a pieta, 
gli consentissero la liberta di rimpatriare, egli non avrebbe |’autodeterminazione 
di avvalersene: 


E questa sbandeggiata di tua corte, 
signor, non cura colpo di tuo strale: 
fatto ha d’orgoglio al petto schermo tale 
ch’ogni saetta li spunta suo corso; 

per che l’armato cor da nulla é morso. 


O montanina mia canzon, tu vai: 
forse vedrai Fiorenza, la mia terra, 
che fuor di sé mi serra, 
vota d’amore e nuda di pietate; 
se dentro v’entri, va’ dicendo:”Omai 
non vi pud far lo mio fattor pid guerra: 
la ond’io vegno una catena il serra 
tal che, se piega vostra crudeltate, 
non ha di ritornar qui libertate”. 
(Rime CXVI, vv. 71-84) 


E una canzone dotata di un rilevante spessore allegorico; al riguardo, 
puntualizza opportunamente i] Mercuri, 


L’amore che s’impadronisce di Dante é comparato nell’ epistola IV a un signore che torna 
in patria dopo un lungo esilio. Tutto ruota intorno a questa metafora dell’esilio: anche la 
donna: (vv. 71 sgg. ) é esiliata dalla corte d’amore, cosi che il suo cuore é invulnerabile 
ai dardi di Cupido; ma questa donna é orgogliosa (v. 73) e insensibile (v. 75), come 
Firenze che é “vota d’amore” (= insensibile) e “nuda di pietate” (= orgogliosa). 

Con questo non si vuole dire che la donna in questione simboleggi Firenze ma si 
vuole affermare che il cambiamento dell’orizzonte letterario ¢ in parte accelerato 
dall’esperienza dell’esiliato Dante, che va configurando un’idea di poesia di forte 
impegno etico e un’immagine esemplare di sé [...]. 

(Mercuri 244). 


Con la morte di Arrigo VII svaniscono le ultime speranze ghibelline e per 
Dante non giunge il “gaudium expectatum” (Ep. V, 3); pertanto, l’exul inmeritus 
viene attanagliato da una tragica solitudine velata da una struggente malinconia. 
Pax e quies sono gli auspici per il futuro; un documento molto prezioso, in tal 
senso, é testimoniato dal racconto offerto dall’epistola di frate Ilaro a 
Ugguccione della Faggiola — un tempo posta dalla filologia e critica dantesca nel 
limbo degli apocrifi, ma di cui ora é€ stata definitivamente dimostrata 
l’autenticita e veridicita grazie a Giorgio Padoan -, nella quale si legge: 


28 Giuseppe De Marco 


Ecce igitur quod iste homo ad partes ultramontanas ire intenderet et per Lunensem 
dyocesim transitum faceret, sive loci devotione sive alia causa motus, ad locum 
monasterii supradicti se transtulit. Quem ego cum viderem, adhuc et michi et aliis 
fratribus meis ignotum, interrogativi quid peteret, et cum ipse verbum non redderet, sed 
loci tamen constructionem inspiceret, iterum interrogavi quid quereret. Tunc ille, 
circumspectis mecum fratribus, dixit pacem. Hinc magis ac magis exarsi ad 
cognoscendum de illo, cuius conditionis homo hic esset, traxique illum seorsum ab aliis; 
et habito secum deinde colloquio, ipsum cognovi, Quem quamvis illum ante diem 
minime vidissem, fama eius ad me per longa primo tempora venerat. 

(6-7)? 


Allo stesso clima s’ispira l’Epistola XII, dettata dalla condizione di 
segregazione, cui Dante é costretto, nonché di completo isolamento, intriso di 
austero dolore e di una sensibilita assoluta del proprio valore e della propria 
dignita. Dai toni profondamente suggestivi, emerge una fiera fermezza, dalla 
quale insorge la doppiezza esiliato-esiliarsi, per la quale gli obiettivi si 
ribaltano, e la reale patria dell’exu/ non risulta essere entro le anguste mura della 
sua citta, bensi nel confine della sua audacia e delle sue virtu. Pertanto, l’esilio 
di Dante non costitui solo una sorta di via crucis, ma sorti anche — e soprattutto 
— un arduo, ardito e idealmente vittorioso iter artistico, specie per quel che 
concerne la costruzione dell’immagine del poeta-profeta,'* a individuare le 


' Si cita da Padoan, // progetto di poema paradisiaco: “Vita nuova", XLII (e l'epistola di 
Tlaro), in ID. , Il lungo cammino del “Poema sacro”. Studi danteschi 14-16 (“Ecco 
dunque che, intendendo quest’uomo andare nelle regioni al di 1a dei monti e transitando 
attraverso la diocesi di Luni, mosso o da devozione del luogo o da altra causa, venne al 
monastero sopradetto. Vedendo costui, ancora sconosciuto e a me e agli altri miei 
confratelli, gli chiesi cosa volesse: e non rispondendo egli ma osservando invece 
l’edificio. gli chiesi di nuovo cosa cercasse. Allora egli. avendo guardato intorno i 
confratelli che erano con me, disse: pace. Io arsi ancor pit’ quindi dal desiderio di sapere 
di lui, di quale condizione quest’uomo fosse, e lo trassi in disparte dagli altri; e avuto poi 
con lui un colloquio, seppi chi era. Quantunque non lo avessi mai visto prima di quel 
giorno, la sua fama mi era giunta gia da molto tempo”). 

'4 Dante: poeta o profeta? E una delle pit spinose cruces esegetiche che ha tormentato sia 
gli antichi sia i moderni commentatori. Insomma, |’iter dantesco va ritenuto una /fictio 
poetica o invece una visio profetica? La questione é stata riproposta, anche da Iannucci, il 
quale, dopo aver delineato, con accuratezza e rigore ermeneutico, la storia del dibattito 
critico concernente siffatto argomento, pone l’accento sulle profonde analogie 
intercorrenti tra le strategie poetiche della Commedia e i modi del profetismo biblico; alla 
luce di tale ottica, a Dante potrebbe essere conferito lecitamente il titolo di “profeta”, a 
condizione che la sua missione profetica sia considerata non “come una dicotomia tra 
propheta e poeta, ma piuttosto come una fusione dei due elementi”; anzi, lo studioso ¢ 
persuaso che “la missione di Dante di essere poeta della verita sia dominante e giustifichi 
la sua collocazione nel contesto della profezia biblica. Come i profeti biblici, egli 
interpreta la sua missione in quanto omaggio alla verita della parola di Dio e la enuncia 
per mostrare i mali del presente e per tratteggiare una visione di un futuro migliore. La 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 29 


ragioni della storia universale, per trarne le linee di interpretazione del presente 
e del futuro. Sulla scorta di tale prospettiva, come avrebbe potuto accettare 
lofferta fiorentina di un’amnistia (1315) che imponeva condizioni umilianti? II 
suo categorico rifiuto ¢ motivato nella XII Epistola in questi termini: 


Estne ista revocatio gratiosa qua Dantes Alagherii revocatur ad patriam, per trilustrium 
fere perpessus exilium? Hocne meruit innocentia manifesta quibuslibet? hoc sudor et 
labor continuatus in studio? Absit a viro phylosophie domestico temeraria tantum cordis 
humilitas, ut more cuiusdam Cioli et aliorum infamium quasi vinctus ipse se patiatur 
offerri! Absit a viro predicante iustitiam ut perpessus iniurias, iniuriam inferentibus, velut 
benemerentibus, pecuniam suam solvat! 
Non est hec via redeundi ad patriam, pater mi; sed si alia per vos ante aut deinde per alios 
invenitur, que fame Dantisque honori non deroget, illam non lentis passibus acceptabo; 
quod si per nullam talem Florentia introitur, nunquam Florentiam introibo. Quidni? 
nonne solis astrorumque specula ubique conspiciam? nonne dulcissimas veritates potero 
speculari ubique sub celo, ni prius inglorium, ymo ignominiosum populo Florentino, 
civitati me reddam? Quippe nec panis deficiet. 

(Epistola XII, 5-9)'* 


Nell’ Epistola I, indirizzata a Oberto e Guido, conti di Romena, Dante, 
nell’esprimere il profondo cordoglio per la morte del loro zio Alessandro e 
nell’elogiare, tra l’altro, l’animo virtuoso e la liberalita del defunto, coglie 
l’occasione per dichiarare che egli, sovente, nutriva consolazione e deponeva la 
propria speranza, circa la sua vicenda di exul inmeritus, solo in Alessandro, 
conte di Romena. Cosi, |’esule, affranto dalla scomparsa del conte, giustifica la 


missione di Dante a servizio della verita infonde intensita profetica nella sua opera e lo 
rivela non solo grande poeta, ma anche, altrettanto, un messaggero religioso del Signore, 
un vero profeta il cui compito, analogamente a quello dei profeti biblici, ¢ svelare la 
realta di Dio e il Suo desiderio che il Suo popolo Gli sia fedele, in modo da poter 
trascorrere |’eternita con Lui, sotto il Suo sguardo pieno d’amore” (Iannucci, Dante:poeta 
o profeta?, in “Per correr miglior acque...”. [...], t. 1, pp. 111-12). 

'S Si cita dalle Opere minori a cura di Frugoni-Brugnoli (“E questa la grazia del richiamo 
con cui Dante Alighieri é richiamato in patria dopo aver patito quasi per tre lustri l’esilio? 
Questo ha meritato una innocenza evidente a chiunque? Questo i sudori e le fatiche 
continuate nello studio? |Lungi da un uomo familiare della filosofia una bassezza 
d’animo a tal punto fuor di ragione da accettare egli, quasi in ceppi, di essere offerto, a 
guisa di un Ciolo e di altri disgraziati. Lungi da un uomo banditore della giustizia il 
pagare, dopo aver patito ingiustizie, il suo denaro agli iniqui come a benefattori. 

Non é questa la via del ritorno in patria, 0 padre mio; ma se una via diversa da voi prima 
o poi da altri si trovera che non deroghi alla fama e all’onore di Dante, quella non a lenti 
passi accetterd; che se non si entra a Firenze per una qualche siffatta via, a Firenze non 
entrerd mai. E che dunque? Forse che non vedrd dovunque la luce del sole e degli astri? 
Forse che non potro meditare le dolcissime verita dovunque sotto il cielo, se prima non 
mi restituisca alla citta, senza gloria e anzi ignominioso per il popolo fiorentino? Né certo 
il pane manchera’)). 


30 Giuseppe De Marco 


sua assenza dalle “lacrimosis exequiis”, dovuta alla inopinata poverta che 
lesilio gli ha arrecato, invita la “progenies maxima Tuscanorum” a dolersi della 
dipartita di un si eccezionale uomo, tanto quanto “me miserum [...], qui a patria 
pulsus et exul inmeritus infortunia mea rependens continuo, cara spe memet 
consolabar in illo”. '° Per la topica consolatoria dell’esilio anche |’ Epistola Ill si 
rivela indicativa, in quanto Dante, per persuadere Cino da Pistoia a tollerare la 
sventura dell’esilio, gli consiglia di leggere sollecitamente i Fortuitorum 
Remedia — opera diffusa nel Medioevo e attribuita a Seneca -: “que ab 
inclitissimo phylosophorum Seneca nobis velut a patre filiis ministrantur, et 
illud de memoria sana tua non defluat: ‘Si de mundo fuissetis, mundus quod 
suum erat diligeret’”. '’ Significative, inoltre, ai fini del nostro discorso, la VI, 
nella quale Dante, rivolgendosi agli “‘scelleratissimi Fiorentini” rimasti in citta, 
definisce se stesso “exul inmeritus” e loro pronti per la feroce voracita della 
cupidigia ad ogni scelleratezza (VI, 5); la VII, dedicata ad Enrico VII, nella cui 
chiusa si legge: “tac quemadmodum, sacrosancte Ierusalem memores, exules in 
Babilone gemiscimus, ita tunc cives et respirantes in pace, confusionis miserias 
in gaudio recolemus”. '* Infine, sicuramente degna di rilievo avrebbe dovuto 
essere una epistola a noi non pervenuta, di cui riferisce |’unico testimone diretto 
della scrittura dell’ Alighieri, Leonardo Bruni — “veduto in alcune epistole di sua 
propria mano scritte” -,'” il quale annota che Dante ospite a Verona presso gli 
Scaligeri “ridussesi tutto a umilta, cercando con buone opere et con buoni 
portamenti racquistare la gratia di potere tornare in Firenze per spontanea 
revocatione di chi reggeva la terra. Et sopra questa parte s’affaticO assai, et 
scrisse pili volte, non solamente a particulari cittadini et del reggimento ma al 
popolo; et intra l’altre una epistola assai lunga, che incomincia: ‘Popule mee, 
quid feci tibi?’” (546). 

L’attivita epistolare di Dante é davvero frenetica ed é architettata su una 
prosa tendente pit’ che altro all’enfasi conturbata della rampogna, con 
abbondanti__ricorsi_ all’apostrophatio, __all’exclamatio, all’ interrogatio, 
all’ antonomasia, alliperbole. Insomma, le Epistole documentano un uso 
sapiente dei procedimenti retorici e delle varie forme del cursus, frutto di grande 
perizia tecnica. 

Da queste esemplificazioni testuali concrete emergono commiserazione e 


'© Ep. Il, 3 (“io misero [...], che cacciato dalla patria ed esule senza colpa, la mia 
sventura considerando di continuo me stesso in lui consolavo con cara speranza’’). 

' Ep. Ill, 8 (“che dal famosissimo dei filosofi, Seneca, a noi, come dal padre ai figli, 
sono offerti e non scorra via dalla tua buona memoria quel detto: ‘Se voi foste del mondo, 
il mondo amerebbe cid ch’é suo’”). 

'8 Ep. VII, 30 (‘“e come ora, memori della sacrosanta Gerusalemme, esuli gemiamo in 
Babilonia, cosi allora cittadini e respirando nella pace ricorderemo nella gioia le miserie 
della confusione”). 

'? Bruni, I ita di Dante, in ID., Opere letterarie e politiche 548. 


L’esperienza di Dante exulimmeritus 31 


sofferenza per la condizione di esiliato misero ed erratico, la pungente nostalgia 
di Firenze, la delazione per un’ammenda iniquamente subita, mentre traspare, 
altresi, la vigorosa affermazione della nobilta di uomo e di intellettuale; 
elementi, questi ultimi, che confluiranno abbondantemente, a mo’ di puntelli, in 
alcuni emblematici canti della Commedia. L’opera, infatti, nasce — in 
particolare la terza cantica — proprio come la reazione dell’exul inmeritus, che 
oppone all’ingiustizia della Terra |’autentica giustizia del regno ideale 
(Paradiso). E quasi una sorta di regno dei fini in cui si realizza quel connubio 
virti-giustizia infranto in terra: di qui, l’urgenza di ripristinare la concordia tra 
civitas terrena e civitas celeste. Alla sofferta esperienza della realta Dante 
contrappone l’esperienza ideale ultraterrena, ponendosi quale giudice — pur 
sempre umano — dei suoi personaggi e del suo tempo, per rivendicare il bene per 
il bene, il male per il male. Gia con la Monarchia egli, ricorrendo alla visione 
dell’umanita guidata dai “due Soli”, l’uno indipendente dall’altro, in effetti 
rispondeva proprio all’ansia di giustizia e di pace dell’esule, alla sua ultima 
illusione, crollata con il fallimento dell’impresa di Arrigo VII di Lussemburgo. 

Pit’ concreti — ora in maniera implicita, ora esplicita — sono, invece, i 
richiami all’esperienza dell’exul inmeritus nella Commedia, dove I indole 
politica é@ connaturata all’indole morale. Possiamo, cosi, individuare e 
opportunamente documentare i riferimenti che Dante fa alla sua lacerante 
esperienza dell’esilio gia nel secondo canto dell’/nferno, allorché — secondo 
Iannucci — Beatrice che discende agli Inferi “riscatta Dante dall’esilio, sia 
politico che spirituale, in cui la Fortuna e il Tempo l’hanno gettato. I] suo gesto 
drammatico risolve la trama del poema, che nella sua formulazione pit semplice 
é una testimonianza dell’esilio di Dante da Firenze e del suo rimpatrio nella citta 
celeste” (Iannucci A. A., p. 231). Nel VI dell’/nferno, Dante pone tre domande 
a Ciacco: quale sara il futuro di Firenze? Nella “citta partita” vi sono cittadini 
giusti? Qual é la causa di tanto gravi discordie civili? I! goloso fiorentino 
preannuncia che 


Oo bine Aan d ] “Dopo lunga tencione 
verranno al sangue, e la parte selvaggia 
caccera l’altra con molta offensione. 

Poi appresso convien che questa caggia 
infra tre soli, e che l’altra sormonti 
con la forza di tal che testé piaggia. 

Alte terra lungo tempo le fronti, 
tenendo |’altra sotto gravi pesi. 
come che di cid pianga o che n’aonti. 

Giusti son due. e non vi sono intesi: 
superbia, invidia e avarizia sono 


32 Giuseppe De Marco 


le tre faville c’hanno i cuori accesi. (if. VI, 64-75)" 


E qui compendiata, tramite il ricorso ad alcune parole chiave — alte-pesi- 
pianga — la vicenda di una disfatta e di un trionfo, con il suo seguito di 
arroganza, di sopraffazioni, di acute e lancinanti sofferenze. E siccome Dante fu 
tra le fila dei vinti, il suo accento si pone incupito sulle tribolazioni interiori sue 
e dei suoi sodali sconosciute al vincitore. Invero, la profezia di Ciacco riguarda 
esplicitamente Firenze, ma contiene implicitamente un lieve cenno alle vicende 
personali di Dante, al suo esilio, riverberato nei “gravi pesi”, sotto cui il partito 
dei Bianchi sara, purtroppo, lungamente tenuto. Nondimeno, una comunanza di 
sorte é al fondo della condizione di Dante e del dannato, di sentire allo stesso 
modo: ambedue sono esuli, l’uno in terra (exu/ inmeritus) Valtro nell’ inferno, 
del tutto consapevole di averlo meritato. Certo, il dialogo di Ciacco é 
“lapidario” e “freddo”, ma — postilla Di Pino — 


quel linguaggio di dolore e d’ironia, di compianto e di sarcasmo in commistione con una 
disposizione d’amore chiusa e immanente nel cuore; quel linguaggio dal quale secoli di 
lettori hanno appreso l’animus dell’esule verso la citta i cui cittadini hanno gettato 
“fuori del suo dolce seno™: quel linguaggio, nel canto di Ciacco, non é ancora scattato. 
Deve sorprenderci il fatto che, se veramente Ciacco — come pare di dover dedurre — gli 
predice l’imminente esilio, Dante lavori di retorica (tre domande, tre risposte), e 
immagini che i] dannato alluda con distacco a Firenze senza nominarla (“la tua citta”). 
(Di Pino, Firenze nella immaginativa oltremondana di Dante 325) 


Tuttavia, in questo primo fra i canti politici della Commedia, come nota 
V. Sermonti, ‘l’esilio di Dante, assorbito dal fondo catramoso del quadro, 
aspettera quattro canti per affiorare alla superficie dell’iconografia poetica”. sh 
Difatti, la prima puntuale e diretta predizione dell’esilio sara pronunciata a 
Dante da Farinata degli Uberti: 


“Ma non cinquanta volte fia raccesa 
la faccia de la donna che qui regge, 
che tu saprai quanto quell’arte pesa. ” 
Uf. X, 79-81) 


Giova puntualizzare che |’anima che il pellegrino incontra é, di tanto in tanto, il 
riflesso del poeta; secondo R. Giglio, in essa si rispecchia 


parte della propria coscienza, alla ricerca di peccati o di residui di essi, che ora la poesia, 


20 Qui e altrove le citazioni sono tratte da La Commedia secondo I'antica vulgata, a cura 
di Petrocchi. 
2! Sermonti (ac. di), La Divina Commedia, Inferno V1 (79). 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 33 


con la sua grande capacita escatologica, provvede a purgare interamente.  [...] 
L’autobiografia, intesa come purificazione, va pertanto estrapolata dalla caratterizzazione 
di alcuni personaggi, rilevata dai colloqui che il personaggio Dante ha con essi; in tal 
modo si ha la possibilita di inseguire anche i riposti pensieri, le interne sofferenze, le 
tensioni al peccato che costellarono la vita e l’esilio del poeta. 

(Giglio 37-38) 


In realta, la base sulla quale si adempie la graduale proiezione della figura di 
Dante in Farinata, consiste nella scelleratezza della nuova Firenze, che ha 
sperimentato le sue prime prove, espellendo gli Uberti, e culminera nell’esilio di 
Dante, fautore della giustizia. 

Soltanto “la cara e buona immagine paterna” di Brunetto Latini poteva 
essere adeguata a predire la gloriosa e immortale sorte di Dante (‘Se tu segui 
tua stella, / non puoi fallire a glorioso porto, / se ben m’accorsi ne la vita bella; / 
e s’io non fossi si per tempo morto, / veggendo il cielo a te cosi benigno, / dato 
tavrei a l’opera conforto’”, XV, 55-60); e nessuno meglio di altri, a cui era 
toccato la ventura di sperimentare l’esilio in terra straniera, motivo le stesse 
scissioni di parte, era in grado di profilargli come una dignitas la condizione di 
esule e di braccato: 


‘Ma quello ingrato popolo maligno 
che discese di Fiesole ab antico, 
e tiene ancor del monte e del macigno, 
ti si fara, per tuo ben far, nimico: 
ed é ragion, ché tra li lazzi sorbi 
si disconvien fruttare al dolce fico. 
Vecchia fama nel mondo li chiama orbi: 
gent’é avara, invidiosa e superba: 
dai lor costumi fa che tu ti forbi. 
La tua fortuna tanto onor ti serba, 
che I’una parte e I’altra avranno fame 
di te; ma lungi fia dal becco I’erba. 
Faccian le bestie fiesolane strame 
di lor medesme, e non tocchin la pianta, 
s’alcuna surge ancora in lor letame, 
in cui riviva la sementa santa 
di que’ Roman che vi rimaser quando 
fu fatto il nido di malizia tanta. ~ 
(Uf XV, 61-78) 


E questo un precipuo insegnamento morale, che la risposta del discepolo 
pienamente e decisamente conferma: poiché, qualunque cosa avvenga, egli 
restera irremovibile: 


34 Giuseppe De Marco 


“Cid che narrate di mio corso scrivo, 
e serbolo a chiosar con altro testo 
a donna che sapra, s’a lei arrivo. 

Tanto vogl’io che vi sia manifesto, 
pur che mia coscienza non mi garra, 
ch’a la Fortuna, come vuol., son presto. 

Non é nuova a li orecchi miei tal arra: 
pero giri Fortuna la sua rota 
come le piace, e ‘I villan la sua marra. ” 

Uf XV, 88-96) 


La risposta di Dante risulta ben degna del prestigio della magnanima 
“sprezzatura” del maestro,” e armonizzata allo stesso stringato sapore 
sentenzioso. La rigorosa e alta dirittura morale di Brunetto Latini era ormai 
filtrata in quella del discepolo, memore che “il magnanimo si merita virtudi e 
grandi onori, li quali s’avvegnono a lui; apparecchia |’anima sua a cose grandi, e 
dispregia le cose piccole e vili” (Tesoro, XXXIV, 110). Inoltre, i versi “giri 
Fortuna la sua rota / come le piace, e ’! villan la sua marra”, su cui ha posto una 
sottile attenzione esegetica Iannucci, non vanno considerati unicamente come 
“una risposta acuta e commovente alla profezia di Brunetto, ma anche come una 
testimonianza precisa” in cui Dante “riconosce che il tempo — Chronos — scorre 
inevitabilmente verso |’esilio e che questo evento segnera una svolta drammatica 
nella sua vita —un Kairos” (Iannucci A. A., p. 226). 

Nella settima bolgia Dante s’imbatte in un dannato incenerito, violento 
uomo di parte e ladro pistoiese, Vanni Fucci, il quale, dopo aver 
impetuosamente e sdegnosamente confessato di aver rubato gli arredi di una 
cappella del duomo di Pistoia, si vendica — causando dolore a Dante — con una 
veemente profezia: la rovinosa disfatta dei Guelfi bianchi ad opera di Moroello 
Malaspina. Di qui, anche Dante, come gli uomini del suo partito, sara esiliato da 
Firenze: 


“Ma perché di tal vista tu non godi, 
se mai sarai di fuor da’ luoghi bui, 
apri li orecchi al mio annunzio, e odi. 

Pistoia in pria d’i Neri si dimagra; 
poi Fiorenza rinova gente e modi. 
Tragge Marte vapor di Val di Magra 

ch’é di torbidi nuvoli involuto; 
e con tempesta impetiiosa e agra 
sovra Campo Picen fia combattuto; 

ond’ei repende spezzera la nebbia, 
si ch’ogne Bianco ne sara feruto. 

E detto l’ho perché doler ti debbia!” (Uf, XXIV, 140-151) 


22 Si rinvia a Cottignoli 33-35. 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 35 


Cosi Vanni Fucci, bestia e ladro, chiude canto e profezia con uno dei versi pil 
brutalmente traboccanti della Commedia. 

Nella seconda cantica le profezie sono sorrette da un tono lirico pit 
sfumato. Mario Luzi asserisce che é proprio il Purgatorio la parte della 
Commedia in cui meglio si esprime pit direttamente la fondamentale struttura 
concettuale e metafisica dell’esilio, in quanto 


nel purgatorio si attuano per coincidenza le due condizioni essenziali: quelle della perdita 
e del rimpianto e quella dell’esclusione dal sommo gaudio. Progressivamente le anime si 
spostano dalla prima alla seconda, i] primo senso di sradicamento cede al desiderio e 
all’attesa; l’a//lora é offuscato e cancellato dal non ancora. Sublime e umanissimo 
paradigma di quello che fu l’esperienza politica, morale e teologale dell’esilio per Dante: 
un uomo che come i suoi coevi aveva implicito il valore materiale ed etico della sede, 
dell’ubicamento civile: e come gli altri intellettuali formati nella dottrina tomistica aveva 
dello stesso soprannaturale una visione insediata. 
Bisogna, credo, tener presente questa sostanziale premessa per misurare il valore dello 
sconvolgimento e del superiore ritrovamento che l’esperienza dell’esilio ha riservato a 
Dante; e per meditare convenientemente sulla forza di rivelazione che egli vi ha scorto 
fino ad assumerla a immagine e a interpretazione totale del destino terreno e ultraterreno 
dell’uomo. 

(Luzi, L ‘esilio, Dante, la poesia 207-08) 


Nel VI canto del Purgatorio \’esilio non viene considerato come sciagura 
personale, bensi come conseguenza della sventura di tutta la citta, poiché, a 
causa delle lotte fra fazioni, i cittadini fiorentini alternativamente solevano 
essere banditi e richiamati, in conseguenza del fatto che Firenze aveva “mutato” 
e “rinovate membre!” Cosi, ancora una volta, la vicenda personale dell’esule 
diventa esemplare della realta della degenerazione di una citta intera. 

Malinconica, contenuta nell’VIII canto, che vibra dello stato d’animo 
dell’exu/ inmeritus, & la profezia di Currado Malaspina, che anticipa, in certo 
qual modo, quella pit’ concreta e diretta di Cacciaguida. L’incipit é di un 
preludio toccante, in quanto introduce il tema della lontananza che, nel corso del 
canto, si mutera in quello dell’esilio, una delle costanti della prima e della 
seconda cantica, ma soprattutto una delle piu significanti interferenze del vissuto 
di Dante nell’opera. L’esilio viene qui ad intersecarsi con la obbligata 
lontananza da Dio delle anime che ospitano l’antipurgatorio:”” 


3 Argomenta efficacemente Chiavacci Leonardi che I’ VIII del Purgatorio appare il canto 
dell’esilio per eccellenza: “[...] dove il doppio aspetto che tale parola assume lungo tutto 
il poema, del quale é uno dei motivi-guida, se non forse il pil importante, viene a 
rivelarsi contestualmente, in una contiguita che un’altra sola volta, nel XXV del 
Paradiso, si manifestera cosi apertamente. [| duplice esilio di cui il poema si fa voce é 
infatti quello storico del personaggio Dante, lontano dalla sua citta, Firenze, dove spera 
invano di ritornare, e quello spirituale — che é dello stesso Dante ma anche di ogni uomo 


36 Giuseppe De Marco 


Era gia l’ora che volge il disio 
ai navicanti e ’ntenerisce il core 
lo di c’han detto ai dolci amici addio; 

e che lo novo peregrin d’amore 
punge, se ode squilla di lontano 
che paia il giorno pianger che si more: 

quand’io incominciai a render vano 
l“udire e a mirare una de |’alme 
surta. che |’ascoltar chiedea con mano. 

(Pg. VIII, 1-9) 


I] pungente dolore individuale di Dante, pur cosi martellantemente presente, si 
innalza, in questa atmosfera impregnata di pathos, a livello universale, purgato 
nello struggimento di tutti gli uomini, nell’iter di questa vita che é un 
ininterrotto dover abbandonare cid che si ama. L’angoscia di Dante esule, che 
non vagheggia piu la justitia degli uomini, si riverbera in quella sovra-umana di 





— dell’anima dalla sua patria, il cielo, alla quale non invano si tende, con speranza che 
non sara delusa. 

Ora, in questo canto ottavo, |’uno e I’altro esilio, che in vario modo intessono tutta la 
trama del poema, sono cantati con uno scambiarsi di accenti e di immagini che ne fa 
infine uno solo, come in realta essi divennero nell’animo dell’uomo che quel poema 
scrisse. 

Qui ‘le memorie dell’esilio — scrisse il Tommaseo —~ si alternano alla speranza e alle 
visioni del cielo’. Ma questa alternanza [...] si giuoca tra due termini simili, in quanto 
“speranza’ e ‘visioni del cielo’ sono infine i modi in cui si esprime il sospiro di un altro 
esilio, diverso nei termini ma uguale nella sostanza. 

[...] La dolce ora della sera che punge il cuore di coloro che sono ‘fuori della loro 
patria’ [...], nei grandi versi cui pit’ che due lustri di doloroso esilio danno la memorabile 
modulazione — ora segnata dalla campana della preghiera che si leva prima della notte -, 
vuole qui indicare un tempo del racconto: il tempo in cui le anime raccolte nella valle si 
uniscono appunto in preghiera [...], guardando al cielo come luogo della loro speranza. 

Ma tutti gli spiriti qui riuniti al tramonto sono anch’essi degli esuli, ‘fuori della patria’, 
come i viandanti dei primi versi; la Salve Regina da loro cantata poco prima — nella quale 
l’uomo chiede di giungere al termine del suo esilio nella valle terrena — gid ce ne ha 
avvertito. Gli esuli della perifrasi e quelli della valle tuttavia sono e non sono gli stessi: 
quelli guardano indietro, alle cose care lasciate, con dolcezza ma con malinconia; questi 
guardano avanti a quel cielo dove giungeranno, con trepidazione ma con speranza. E il 
diverso segno che sempre accompagna i due esilii, dalla citta storica e dalla citta celeste, 
e che in questi versi viene a farsi adiacente e quasi concorrente nello stesso ambito 
poetico, sovrapponendosi I’una all’altra figura". Parimenti, |’apparizione dei due angeli 
con vesti e ali verdi, con in mano le spade infuocate, “non altro sono se non la figura 
dell’ originario esilio dell’umanita (come lo chiamera Adamo nel Paradiso), da cui ora si 
puo ritornare grazie alla redenzione” (Chiavacci Leonardi, /ntroduzione al canto VIII, in 
Alighieri, Commedia, Purgatorio, vol. Il, pp. 227-29). 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 37 
chi, disorientato e sbigottito, perviene al cospetto di Dio: 


[...] “Or va; che ’] sol non si ricorca 
sette volte nel letto che ’] Montone 
con tutti e quattro i pié cuopre e inforca, 

che cotesta cortese oppinione 
ti fia chiavata in mezzo de la testa 
con maggior chiovi che d’altrui sermone, 

se corso di giudicio non s’arresta. ~ 

(Pg. VIII, 131-139) 


Le ultime battute del canto, pronunciate da Currado Malaspina — e come 
consueto, la profezia é tessuta da uno stile oscuro e ambiguo, oltre che 
retoricamente molto costruito —, rilevano come si sia affievolita, ormai, in 
Dante, la malinconia e come Il’exul inmeritus accetti tristemente il suo 
peregrinare: accettazione, dunque, umile e votata degli eventi nei quali opera e 
agisce la divinitas. 

Altra nota autobiografica chiude il canto XI, in cui viene predetto a Dante 
che presto assaporera la ritrosia e la sensazione che genera il “tremar per ogne 
vena”: 


“Pit non dird, e scuro so che parlo; 
ma poco tempo andra, che *tuoi vicini 
faranno si che tu potrai chiosarlo. 
Quest’ opera li tolse quei confini. ~ 
(Pg. XI, 139-142) 


E Oderisi da Gubbio che, dopo aver additato |’anima di Provenzan Salvani, 
predice a Dante-pellegrino l’imminente esilio, durante il quale avvertira i morsi 
cocenti della umiliazione e della miseria e dell’isolamento morale. E in virtu di 
quell’amara esperienza che sara capace di cogliere il significato dell’azione 
eroica del Salvani, allorché quest’ultimo libero, umiliandosi, un amico sulla 
piazza di Siena dalle pene che soffriva nella prigione di Carlo I d’Angid, 
facendo cosi tesoro del monito evangelico: “coloro che si umiliano, saranno 
esaltati”. Dunque, Provenzan é stato mutato da orgoglioso in magnanimo, 
grazie a quel gesto; ed é lo stesso passaggio che si attua in Dante, che, per una 
qualche dose di superbia, matura proprio nel corso dell’esperienza dell’ esilio. 

E ancora Bonagiunta Orbicciani da Lucca, dopo aver “mormorato” a Dante 
che in esilio conoscera una donna, Gentucca, che gli fara amare la sua citta, gli 


profetizzera |’esilio in questi termini: 


“Tu te n’andrai con questo antivedere: 
se nel mio mormorar prendesti errore, 
dichiareranti ancor le cose vere. ~ 
(Pg. XXIV, 46-48) 


38 Giuseppe De Marco 


Infine, Forese, dopo che Dante gli ha chiesto notizie circa le sorti infelici 
della patria, riferisce al pellegrino che i] maggior responsabile della “trista 
ruina” di Firenze — ma si astiene dal nominare i] fratello Corso Donati — sara 
trascinato all’inferno da un cavallo diabolico. L’Alighieri, che riconosce in 
Corso il “mandante politico” del suo esilio, lo ripaghera con un livore 
incoercibile, proibendosi di annotarne per iscritto il nome ignominioso: 


“Or va”, diss’el; “che quei che pili n’ha colpa, 
vegg io a coda d’una bestia tratto 
inver’ la valle ove mai non si scolpa. 

La bestia ad ogne passo va piu ratto, 
crescendo sempre, fin ch’ella il percuote, 
e lascia il corpo vilmente disfatto. 

Non hanno molto a volger quelle ruote”, 
e drizzo li occhi al ciel, “che ti fia chiaro 
cid che *] mio dir pit dichiarar non puote. 

(Pg. XXIV, 82-90) 


Il filo conduttore che lega l’intero canto VI del Paradiso é esibito dalla 
partecipazione personale del Poeta, dal riverbero della sua _vicissitudine 
autobiografica, dalla consequenzialita del pensiero ivi estrinsecato con molto 
supplizio dall’Alighieri. Difatti, nella prima parte egli ha delineato la sua 
posizione politico-storico-religiosa; nella seconda, proiettandosi nella figura di 
Romeo da Villanova, ha affrescato la sua mestizia di esule, ma, nel contempo, 
anche la sua dignita, la magnanima vis, l’inflessibile condizione di uomo 
solitario, sebbene un virile ritegno gli abbia ostacolato di insistere sulle 
tribolazioni che é stato costretto a patire ingiustamente nel corso dei cupi anni 
dell’ esilio: 


“[... J ese ’l mondo sapesse il cor ch’elli ebbe 
mendicando sua vita a frusto a frusto, 
assai lo loda, e pit lo loderebbe. ” 
(Pd. VI, 140-142) 


I riferimenti al motivo dell’esilio, disseminati in vari luoghi della 
Commedia sotto forma di profezie post eventum — 0 pseudoprofezie? — ,” 


4 Con singolari spunti esegetici, non privi di stimolante novitas, Barberi Squarotti 
sostiene che nella Commedia le vere e proprie profezie sono poche, in quanto quelle cosi 
definite da molti commentatori, invero, lette nella adeguata ottica e investite del loro 
coerente valore esegetico, risultano solo una pseudopremonizione di eventi gia accaduti. 
Tali, puntualizza il critico, devono essere considerate le parole di Ciacco, Farinata, 
Brunetto, Cacciaguida e delle altre anime che, nel corso dell’iter dantesco ad Deum, 
rivelano al poeta—viator avvenimenti privati e pubblici. Dante, uomo di profonda fede, é€ 
conscio del fatto che antivedere il futuro é contro la dottrina di Dio: non soltanto risulta il 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 39 


allusivi al destino del poeta, sono stati fin qui sempre enigmatici, ma culminano 
tutti nell’incontro di Dante con il suo trisavolo Cacciaguida, che rivela 
manifestamente la dolorosa sorte del proprio discendente. Solamente ora si 
intende come I’esilio, iniquamente tollerato, si trasfiguri in una sorta di “provida 
sventura”, per ricorrere ad una nota espressione manzoniana, poiché esso si 
innalza a emblema di una condizione privilegiata, quella di essere stato eletto da 
Dio al fine di assolvere ad una missione di riscatto a beneficio della “humana 
civilitas”. L’ingiustizia perpetrata dagli uomini viene in tal modo ricompensata 
dal sommo Bene stesso, in virt — ovviamente — di quella visione provvidenziale 
della storia, specificatamente della civilta medioevale, con la celebrita di cui 
Dante godra presso i posteri e col giovamento che conseguira loro dall’aver 
potuto apprendere quanto narrato dal poeta nelle tappe del suo iter ad Deum. 

I] Crociato del cielo di Marte dichiara vigorosamente |’innocenza di Dante, 
paragonandolo a Ippolito scacciato inconsapevole da Atene: 


“Qual si partio Ipolito d’Atene 
per la spietata e perfida noverca, 
tal di Fiorenza partir ti convene. ” 
(Pd. XVII, 46-48) 


Di poi, la struggente umiliazione suscitata dall’esilio, dopo che egli ha lasciato 
“ogne cosa diletta / pit caramente”, é quella di sperimentare 


“si come sa di sale 
lo pane altrui, e come é duro calle 
lo scendere e ’] salir per |’altrui scale. 
E quel che piu ti gravera le spalle, 
sara la compagnia malvagia e scempia 
con la qual tu cadrai in questa valle.” (Pd. XVII, 58-63) 


punto di pit elevata hubrys, della protervia massima contro la divinitas , ma é oltre a cid 
l’antitesi del libero arbitrio, pervenendo a congetturare l’esistenza di una sorte ormai 
decretata con scrittura perpetua nel libro della vita dell’uomo. Pertanto, le parole 
attraverso le quali Dante fa dialogare i protagonisti, che nella fictio gli rivelano il futuro, 
altro non sono che _ postille a eventi gia verificatisi, o meglio ne sono la “versione 
ufficiale”, in quanto sanzionata da Dio. Di profezie reali, di chiara matrice biblico- 
gioachimita, é lecito parlare — sempre secondo lo studioso, allievo di Getto —, solo in rari 
loci nella Commedia, quali, per ricorrere a qualche esemplificazione, nei versi del veltro e 
del “‘cinquecento diece e cinque”. Sulla scorta di tali argomentazioni, il critico, dopo aver 
chiarito il significato delle profezie messianiche “interpretate dall’esegesi cristiana, fin 
dai Vangeli, come annunciatrici del Cristo”, conclude che lo stesso significato rivestano, 
sostanzialmente, quelle che Dante intercala cosi solennemente nel poema (Barberi 
Squarotti, Spiegazione e profezia 105-29). Per la controversa, quanto spinosa questione 
della profezia, ci si limita a rinviare al pit completo, ragionato e sistematico saggio di 
Palma di Cesnola. 


40 Giuseppe De Marco 


Vero é che nulla di sordido o di ignobile risalta dal tessuto di queste parole; il 
riferimento allo stato di esule di Dante rileva unicamente due punti di austera 
tribolazione: l’afflizione e l’asprezza di questa vita. Non emerge in tale contesto 
alcun riferimento nei riguardi degli altri, affinché nutrano pieta per il poeta, né 
biasimo da parte dei signori prodighi di ospitalita a Dante. L’ostinazione e la 
inesorabilita risultavano essere effettivamente nella sua condizione di isolato ed 
estromesso dalla sua Firenze e dalla lotta nella quale si era immerso. Di qui, il 
suo dolore da individuale si estende a universale e Dante altri non é che 
l’emblema di tutti coloro che ingiustamente patiscono il sopruso d’altri. 

Il profondo dolore causato dall’esilio é€, pero, riscattato dalla totale 
separazione da una societa con la quale é, ormai, irrealizzabile il dialogo sui 
valori cristiani; pertanto, esule non é Dante, bensi I’umanita che si é separata da 
Dio, al quale necessariamente deve essere riportata: in questo consiste, dunque, 
larduo compito di Dante Alighieri, affidatogli dall’alto dei cieli. Ecco cosi 
chiarito il trionfo della orgogliosa accettazione della condizione dell’esiliato, 
con il riscatto dell’ intellettuale fuoriuscito: 


“Ben veggio, padre mio, si come sprona 
lo tempo verso me, per colpo darmi 
tal, ch’é pit grave a chi pit: s’abbandona; 
per che di provedenza é buon ch’io m’armi, 
si che, se loco m’é tolto pit caro, 
io non perdessi li altri per miei carmi. ” 
(Pd. XVII, 106-11) 


La questione qui toccata da Dante é€ quella tipica degli intellettuali smarriti, 
lacerati interiormente, che in ogni epoca si sono, purtroppo, trovati a vivere e ad 
agire in un consorzio civile nel quale dominano la prepotenza, |’intolleranza e 
Pegoismo. 

Non certo si esaurisce con la profezia di Cacciaguida il riflesso 
dell’esperienza dell’esilio dantesco. Nel XXIV del Paradiso san Pietro, per 
sollecitudine di Beatrice, esamina Dante sulla fede. Per fede si diventa cittadini 
della corte celeste, di quella civitas Dei che, sperata nell’esilio terreno “ex fide 
vivens’’, realizzera la giustizia e la pace completa. Nel canto successivo I’esule 
dalla patria terrena viene accettato nella patria celeste; qui Dante mette un 
nostalgico sospiro rivolto alla patria lontana, rifiutatagli dai suoi antagonisti 
politici, esternando il desiderio di riuscire a raggiungere, con |’ardua impresa del 
“poema sacro / al quale ha posto mano e cielo e terra” (Pd. XXV, 1-2), che lo 
ha reso “per molti anni macro” (v. 3), il vagheggiato rimpatrio a Firenze e 
l’incoronazione poetica sul fonte del suo battesimo (vv. 7-9). In siffatto 
contesto viene a convalidarsi |’inarrestabile congiunzione fra l’esilio e la gloria, 


?5 Gia nel Convivio, IV. XXVIII, 5, Dante aveva posto in corrispondenza il ritorno nella 
patria terrena con |’ ingresso nella patria celeste. 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 41 


tutta modulata a livello stilistico su toni solenni: Dante, esule e poeta, é ormai 
conscio della propria grandezza e del ruolo di scriba Dei e di poeta-profeta, a 
cui sono concessi anche gli onori mondani: 


Se mai continga che *l poema sacro 
al quale ha posto mano e cielo e terra, 
si che m’ha fatto per pit’ anni macro 

vinca la crudelta che fuor mi serra 
del bello ovile ov’io dormi’ agnello, 
nimico ai lupi che li danno guerra; 

con altra voce omai con altro vello 
ritornero poeta, e in sul fonte 
del mio battesmo prendero ‘I cappello. 

(Pd. XXV, 1-9) 


I suindicati versi collimano, a livello di un riscontro intertestuale — e non sembri 
questa una mera digressione, in quanto il richiamo intertestuale qui é d’obbligo 
-, con quanto si legge nella prima egloga dantesca a Giovanni del Virgilio, nel 
corso della quale, parimenti, affiora la nostalgia dell’ esule per la patria che 
ancora gli viene negata: 


“Nonne triumphales melius pexare capillos 
et patrio, redeam si quando, abscondere canos 
fronde sub inserta solitum flavescere Sarno?” 
(Egil. II, vv. 42-44) 


Tunc ego: “Cum mundi circumflua corpora cantu 
astricoleque meo, velut infera regna, patebunt, 
devincere caput hedera lauroque iuvabit: 
concedat Mopsus” [...]. 
(Egil. Il,, vv. 48-51)° 


Pit che considerare qui solo il rifiuto da parte di Dante alle proposte di Giovanni 
del Virgilio circa l’invito di recarsi allo Studio bolognese, quale poeta in latino, 
ed essere incoronato poeta — tra |’altro, Bologna era dominata dai guelfi Neri e 
la presenza di Dante in quella citta non sarebbe stata sicuramente confortata da 
un’accoglienza propizia! —, € opportuno cogliere anche e soprattutto la 
rinfervorata speranza di un rientro in Firenze; sebbene ora incanutito, il poeta é 


6 Si cita dall’edizione a cura di Cecchini, in Alighieri, Opere minori (“[...]’Non é forse 
meglio pettinare per il trionfo i capelli, e, se mai torni in patria sulle rive dell’Arno, li 
nasconderli canuti sotto la fronda intrecciata, dove ero solito aver florida chioma?’[...] 
‘Quando i corpi rotanti intorno all’universo e gli abitatori del cielo saranno, come i regni 
inferi, palesi nel mio canto, mi piacera cingermi il capo d’edera e d’alloro: Mopso me lo 
consenta’”). 


42 Giuseppe De Marco 


tuttavia confortato dalla sua voce molto potente e autorevole, unicamente per 
virtt di poesia: la qual cosa tanto piu era plausibile, allorché la composizione del 
Paradiso fosse stata ultimata. Inoltre, il riscontro simmetrico fra l’esordio del 
XXV della terza cantica e i versi succitati dell’egloga sembra essere attestato 
pure dal contrasto-confronto fra la “florida chioma” del vigore giovanile, quindi 
corrispondente agli anni prima dell’esilio, e quelli canuti dell’uomo pervenuto 
alla soglia della maturita, tanto pil: prestigioso (“con altra voce omai con altro 
vello”). Non va sottovalutata, infine, la significativa funzione dei tempi verbali, 
scandita dal trapasso del congiuntivo ottativo dell’incipit (“Se mai continga”) 
all’energico guizzare dei due indicativi futuri: “ritornero”, “prenderd”, il cui 
nesso sintattico (“redeam si quando”; “patebunt [...] iuvabit”) trova la sua 
corrispondenza nei versi citati deli’egloga. 

Non é casuale che Dante apra il canto dell’esame sulla speranza con 
un’occhiata nostalgica a Firenze, che coincide con la spes di ritornarvi; tuttavia 
la malinconica riflessione autobiografica sulla propria condizione di esule — del 
tutto effimera — é irrilevante rispetto alle coordinate spazio-temporali divine. 
Difatti, il rientro a Firenze viene reclamato, se non addirittura preteso, in virtu 
dell’inviolabile diritto del verbum poetico, che sormonta qualsivoglia barriera e 
oltrepassa qualunque antilogia o conflitto terreno; di qui, la liberta a Dante viene 
elargita, secondo quanto scrive P. Rigo, dalla “poesia della Commedia che la 
riflette dal cielo e Ja restituisce alla terra. [...] non é@ Firenze che concede la 
liberta a Dante, ma é la poesia della Commedia che rende libera Firenze; e Dante 
ritornando in Firenze sancisce in se stesso questa liberta, per lui stesso, scriba e 
ministro di poesia, ripristinata” (160). 

Di poi, Dante viene esaminato da santo Jacopo Maggiore sulla speranza. 
Beatrice, dopo un esplicito riferimento alla Chiesa militante, chiarisce il motivo 
per cui a Dante é concesso, dal luogo d’esilio, di ascendere alla Gerusalemme 
celeste: 


“[... ] pero li € conceduto che d’Egitto 
vegna in Ierusalemme per vedere, 
anzi che *| militar li sia prescritto. ~ 
(Pd. XXV, 55-57) 


Invero, a noi sembra proprio questo i] luogo in cui si assiste a un’apoteosi 
dell’Esilio, quale ultima, mistica tappa dell’iter dantesco. Un episodio storico, 
qui richiamato, |’esilio degli Ebrei, nuovamente si flette sul livello della storia, 
per favorire e, nel contempo, sorreggere la spes di un exu/ dell’Autunno del 
Medioevo. Ma dal motivo del rimpatrio, esplicita nostomania, la vicissitudine di 
quest’exu/, qui — molto probabilmente —, pit’ che in altri /oci nella Commedia, 
coincide con la ventura dell’intera umanita. Non a caso, nel canto XXVI, a 
chiudere gli incontri del cielo delle stelle fisse, sospeso e oscillante tra fisica e 
metafisica, si leva la luce di Adamo, che spiega a Dante “la cagion di tanto 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 43 


essilio” (v. 116): € proprio Adamo — il primo ed unico uomo non nato dal parto 
di una donna, ma creato direttamente da Dio — I’iniziatore della perenne 
condizione dell’uomo esule. 

Al fondo, lo scopo per cui I’iter si attua e si conclude, raggiunge la meta 
suprema nei versi 37-40 del XXXI del Paradiso: 


[. . . ] fo, che al divino da l’umano, 
a l’etterno dal tempo era venuto, 
e di Fiorenza in popol giusto e sano, 
di che stupor dovea esser compiuto! 


Firenze viene ricordata per ultima volta, in quanto essa é, ormai, un bene 
irrecuperabile, come scrive la Chiavacci Leonardi: “[. . . ] ricordo che qui — fuori 
del tempo — non si fa pill voce profetica, ma implorazione del cuore umano 
all’aiuto divino. E Dante assume ora, in questo cielo dove finalmente é giunto, 
la figura che per tutto il poema lo accompagna come sua ombra, o suo doppio, 
quella del pellegrino che si trova nel tempio del suo voto, cioé dell’esule che 
arriva in patria’. 7’ Cosi Firenze e Gerusalemme si equivalgono, storia ed 
escatologia si incrociano. La condizione di Dante esule si carica, stemperandosi, 
di dimensione sovrapersonale e metastorica: colui il quale risulta giusto 
nell’eternita viene esiliato dalla terra, pertanto pud ritenersi ormai definitivo 
’addio al mondo della contingenza, grazie al fatto che l’uomo é riuscito ad 
approdare alla sua reale patria, con |’animo libero e trasumanato, come asserva 
Iannucci: “[. . . ] cosi il tema dell’esilio nel poema sacro si risolve non nel 
tempo, ma aldila della sfera della Luna, sul piano anagogico” (232). 

Autobiografia universale, dunque, questa di Dante, in quanto la sua vicenda 
biografica ed artistica persiste ad incidere tenacemente nella sensibilita odierna e 
il suo insegnamento, mai come oggi, che viviamo in un delicatissimo e 
drammaticissimo momento storico, nel quale, purtroppo, la feritas ha prevalso e 
trionfato sulla Aumanitas, si rende quanto mai attuale. Onde, l’esilio del divin 
Poeta si € protratto sino ai nostri giorni e si flette nell’esilio di coloro che 
naufragano nella loro condizione di solitudine, causa il deterioramento dell’era 
consumistica, e non riveste importanza alcuna, se nello stesso luogo in cui si é 
nati, 0, addirittura, nel contesto socio-familiare, dove compaiono larve e sagome 
rifrante nel lugubre turbinio di una condizione di psicostemia e di estraniazione 
alienante. 

Quale fisionomia ha assunto |’esilio nel corso della nostra letteratura? 

Non é agevole — per economia di spazio — analizzare ed esaurire la vastita e 
complessita del tema della ricerca; indagini di tal genere non sono mai 
veramente esaurite: né importa che lo siano, come sanno gli intendenti. 





27 Chiavacci Leonardi, /ntroduzione al canto XXXI, in Alighieri, Commedia, Paradiso, 
1997, vol. III (850). 


44 Giuseppe De Marco 


Pertanto, si procedera, solo per rapide campionature, il cui discorso tende a 
individuare alcune significative tarsie dell’esilio in letteratura, che, da Dante, 
esemplare inauguratore, viene a costituirsi come una sorta di mosaico per una 
autobiografia universale. 


II. Anche Petrarca paghera con I’esilio dell’apolide — nu/lius civitatis civis — le 
scelte del suo stesso immaginario, quel vagare qua e la senza meta, quella 
solitudine interiore (“Solo et pensoso i pit diserti campi / vo misurando [...}”)* 
che é il tormento di un’anima in perpetuo esilio. Esilio-rinuncia, esilio assenza- 
lontananza in Petrarca: 


S’io esca vivo de’ dubbiosi scogli, 
et arrive il mio exilio ad un bel fine, 
chi’ sarei vago di voltar la vela, 
et l’anchore gittar in qualche porto! 
Se non ch’i’ ardo come acceso legno, 
si m’é duro a lassar I’usata vita. 
(LXXX, vv. 31-36) 


E un tormento, una solitudine, un esilio che si trasmetteranno, come una sorta di 
eredita, in modi e forme diverse, al Tasso e al Leopardi. 

E nota la vicenda umana di Tasso, “fugace peregrino”, costretto a scrivere e 
a veramente vivere per intervalla insaniae, negli intervalli della pazzia. Sara il 
primo — di una serie di poeti, fortunatamente non troppo lunga! — a patire fino in 
fondo il drammatico esilio del manicomio. Indicativi, in tale direzione, sono 
testi quali A//e figlie di Renata, Al Metauro e una lettera indirizzata ad Antonio 
Costantini, datata 1-10 aprile 1595. 

Ma addirittura tutto un secolo sara attraversato — e quasi reso esemplare — 
dal mito dell’esule: quell’Ottocento romantico e non, in cui presto si delineano 
le figure di Foscolo-Mazzini-Berchet-Fusinato-Scalvini-Ruffa-Tommaseo. 
Scriveva il Tommaseo: “Tua patria é l’esiglio,/ tua sede il periglio,/ tua legge 
’amor”, rivolgendosi alla propria anima ferita dal tempo; ma gia Foscolo, esule 
romantico per eccellenza, aveva insuperabilmente tratteggiato, prima nelle 
Ultime lettere di Jacopo Ortis e poi nei Sonetti e nelle Grazie quella figura 
dell’esule fuggiasco anche da sé (“Un di, s’io non andro sempre fuggendo 
[...]”), quell’essere esiliato e, insieme, esiliarsi, che riconduce tutta questa 
schiera di esuli al loro sommo inauguratore, Dante. 

Di ‘“‘autoesilio” si pud parlare per Leopardi, separato dal mondo dalla 
finestra del “‘paterno ostello”, unitamente alla siepe, anch’essa fondamentale per 
la comprensione della solitudine leopardiana. Ma quanto lontana questa dalle 


8 Qui e altrove le citazioni sono tratte da Petrarca, Canzoniere, ac. di Antonelli et al. 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 45 


figure esiliate di Manzoni: Napoleone ed Ermengarda, salvate in extremis dalla 
“provida sventura” della loro stessa morte. 

Ma sono molti e pressoché infiniti i modi in cui un’anima — poetica o non — 
pud avvertire ad un certo punto della propria vita e della propria storia 
quest’estraneita, quella separazione dal mondo — o da un certo mondo — che ne 
determina I’ esilio obbligato o volontario. 

Si pensi alla figura dell’esule quale si enuclea dai versi degli Scapigliati in 
forte e netto contrasto con l’affarismo borghese o alla figura dell’esule 
novecentesco che avverte sempre pit! lo smarrimento, \a solitudine, ’ angoscia 
di appartenere ad un’eta dominata dai consumi, e a un progresso incontrollato 
che rende l’uomo sempre pili schiavo dei suoi bisogni a discapito del suo 
patrimonio interiore e, percid, sempre pili attanagliato dalla nostalgia di un 
mondo altro e diverso, di una “patria ideale”, di una citta, di un paese 
dell’anima, perfino di una lingua, di un dialetto perduto e presto anche ritrovato, 
per non vivere fino in fondo I’esilio. 

Siamo al centro della figura dell’esule quale si é andato delineando nel 
“secolo breve’, il Novecento. Si tratta di un esilio che é stato, talvolta, avvertito 
— € poi poeticamente espresso — come solitudine, angoscia, disperazione. 
Solitudine, come nel caso del Michelstaedter, anche nello stare tra la folla (“Ho 
paura di trovarmi fra gente, allora mi sento tanto pit isolato”),” o all’ interno di 
una straniante citta moderna, come nel caso dell’esilio psicologico di Sbarbaro 
(“che la citta mi pare / sia fatta immensamente vasta e vuota”),*°o all’interno 
della carcerazione manicomiale, come nel caso di Campana e di Lorenzo 
Calogero. Ma solitudine e serena disperazione ed esilio si ritrovano 
nell’ambiguita dell’esistenza di Umberto Saba e in modi abbastanza simili nel 
“distacco progressivo”, nelle “fughe” di Vincenzo Cardarelli. Ed @ subito mitica 
la figura del naufrago ungarettiana, quasi alter ego dello stesso Ungaretti, 
“uomo di pena”: 


In nessuna 
Parte 

di terra 

mi posso 
accasare. *| 


E siamo al Montale della “muraglia” con i “cocci aguzzi di bottiglia” e alla sua 
“insormontabilita”,’” condizione di permanente esilio esistenziale. E c’é, in A. 
Gatto, il volontario esilio del poeta dall’ isola dell’essere e quello di Quasimodo 


29 “Alla famiglia, 23 ottobre 1905”, in Michelstaedter, Epistolario (14). 

3° Sbarbaro, Ecco dalla lussuria. M'incammino, Pianissimo (1914), in ID. , L’opera in 
versi e in prosa (25). 

3! Ungaretti, Girovago, in ID. , Vita d'un uomo. Tutte le poesie (85). 

>? Montale, Meriggiare pallido e assorto, Ossi di seppia, in 1D. , L ‘opera in versi (28). 


46 Giuseppe De Marco 


dall’isola amata e mitizzata. Difatti, il nostalgico ricordo della Sicilia accresce 
la mesta malinconia dell’esilio in terra lombarda e rende pit doloroso, con il 
presagio della morte, |’anelito di quella quies vagheggiata in una “ignota terra”, 
quindi a Tindari Quasimodo oppone “la terra ove ogni giorno” il poeta 
s’inabissa, nella quale si logora la coscienza dell’allontanamento e 
dell’abbandono; pertanto, solo i] canto pud fungere da lenimento consolatorio, 
attraverso |’ “aspro esilio”’. 

Terra d’esilio di Pavese offre una testimonianza concreta di una storia 
privata di tragica solitudine, popolata da protagonisti emarginati e da scene tristi. 
Identica atmosfera aleggia ne // carcere, il racconto di una chiusa angoscia, di 
una solitudine bene espressa dal confino, dove Stefano, i! protagonista, é assente 
metafisicamente dal resto del mondo, perché condannato, o autocondannatosi, 
ad una condizione di cruenta solitudine che gli permette di guardare la vita 
“come dalla finestra del carcere”. Il quadro dell’esperienza dell’esilio in Pavese 
si estende, con tinte sempre piu tetre di delicate e squarciate note di solitudine, 
in Lo steddazzu , in cui alla condizione dell’ “uomo solo” si unisce anche quella 
proveniente dal confino politico: “La lentezza dell’ora / é spietata, per chi non 
aspetta pill nulla”;’’ tuttavia — sostiene Di Pino — l’esilio per Pavese consiste 
“nella dissipazione del mito 0, meglio, nella contaminazione irreparabile tra 
mito e storia”. ** 

Non puo non ricordarsi qui]. Silone — esule in Svizzera dal 1930 al 1945 -, 
perseguitato dal regime fascista. Da questa esperienza nasceranno i cosiddetti 
romanzi dell’esilio (Fontamara, Pane e vino, Il seme sotto la neve). Le amare e 
lancinanti vicende dell’esilio vengono, tra le altre cose, proiettate in Pietro 
Spina, il protagonista di Pane e vino e di Il seme sotto la neve, soprattutto per la 
difficolta che egli dovra affrontare e per la sua condizione di fuggiasco. 

Financo nei campi di concentramento la Commedia di Dante ha offerto una 
sorta di conforto per i detenuti: basti ricordare P. Levi, cui “l’orazion picciola” 
dell’Ulisse dantesco (Se questo @ un uomo) pare un punto d’appoggio per 
sollevarsi dalla condizione di abbrutimento ferino del Lager. Il celebre canto 
dell’ /nferno riveste “un ruolo tanto preminente, [...] nel resoconto del Lager di 
Levi, nella sua presentazione sostenuta [...] dell’importanza del nutrimento 
spirituale (il testo di Dante), insieme col cibo materiale (la zuppa di cavoli e 
rape) per la sua salvezza”.”> E cosi /'exul inmeritus lenisce le pene di un esilio 
che é lontananza non solo dalla patria, ma dalla condizione umana. La poesia 
dantesca quale fonte inesorabile di sostegno umano é dimostrata anche dalla 
testimonianza di Mirko Deanovi¢, allorché fu arrestato e deportato a Stara 
Gradiska, all’inizio del secondo conflitto mondiale. L’unica cosa che riusci a 


33 Pavese, Lo steddazzu, in ID. , Poesie edite e inedite (134). 

4 Di Pino G. . Esilio e letteratura, in AA. VV. , Dante e le citta dell 'esilio (219). 

3° Biasin. . L'esilio e il contagio, in L'esilio come certezza. La ricerca d’identita 
culturale in Italia dalla Rivoluzione francese ai nostri giorni (100); si veda Sodi. 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 47 


portare con sé fu un’edizione tascabile della Divina Commedia, quale unica ¢ 
suprema compagna per “il doloroso ‘viaggio’ verso l’ignoto”.*° 

Anche nell’opera di Giorgio Caproni é possibile individuare forme e motivi 
che, in certo qual modo, riconducono alla categoria spirituale e alla dimensione 
mentalistica dell’esilio: // passaggio d’Enea, Il seme del piangere, Il muro della 
terra compongono una sorta di trittico esemplato sulla Commedia, percorso da 
temi e nuclei danteschi. Difatti, al Seme del piangere Caproni approda dopo un 
soggettivo, travagliato riscontro con un inferno moderno: il conflitto mondiale; 
di qui, la scelta da parte del poeta del virgiliano personaggio di Enea per 
proiettargli il senso dolente dello sconvolgimento, dell’esilio storico e 
“coscienziale”. Enea, per certi aspetti, rinvia, per metonimia, alla figura di 
Virgilio nella Commedia, con la differenza che Caproni innalza il suo 
protagonista a simbolo della solitudine, di una condizione di peregrinanza priva 
di qualsivoglia forma di riscatti trascendenti . Insomma, |’Enea di Caproni viene 
raffigurato come un ramingo dello smarrimento e degli enigmi dell’epoca 
contemporanea, pur con il risalto dello “spirito peregrino” di Dante: 


— Enea che in spalla 
un passato che crolla tenta invano 
di porre in salvo, e al rullo d’un tamburo 
ch’é uno schianto di mura, per la mano 
ha ancora cosi gracile un futuro 
da non reggersi ritto. Nell’avvampo 
funebre d’una fuga su una rena 
che scotta ancora di sangue, che scampo 
pud mai esserti il mare (la falena 
verde dei fari bianchi) se con lui 
senti di soprassalto che nel punto, 
d’estrema solitudine, sei giunto 
pid esatto e incerto dei nostri anni bui??” 

Suffragata da una esemplare lettura di Dante, la poesia di Caproni ondeggia 
fra una trepidante rimozione del presente e la fascinatio della lontananza. Basti 
ricordare, in tale direzione, la reinvenzione della madre, Anna Picchi, in // seme 
del piangere, entro le cui linee d’ombra il poeta-figlio-amante riesce a tessere 
l’ordito di una disfida: allestisce una compiuta raccolta sugli interstizi vacillanti 
della memoria, conferendo a immagini di separazione-assenza e a luoghi 
sgretolati la vis della effettualita. In proposito, quanto mai calzante ci sembra il 





36 Deanovié. Letture dantesche in un campo di concentramento, in Dante e il mondo 
slavo (107-08); l’articolo era gia apparso col titolo La “Divina Commedia” in un campo 
di concentramento nel 1942 .°Studi romanica et anglica zagabriana”, 19-20, 1965, pp. 
201-02. 

37 Caproni, Versi, /l passaggio d'Enea, in ID., Tutte le poesie (162). 


48 Giuseppe De Marco 


rilievo della Di Legami, secondo la quale // seme del piangere ‘allude ad un 
tempo diviso fra l’oggi dell’esilio e il passato della spensierata pienezza, 
dell’infanzia con la madre. Figurazione allegorica personale ma intensa di una 
frattura ove le rovine della storia e i traumi personali convergono verso uno 
stesso luogo: quello delle origini, dell’identita, dell’autocoscienza poetica”. 3 

In particolare, nel Congedo del viaggiatore cerimonioso & altre 
prosopopee (1965) si coglie, attraverso il viaggio allegorico, una parabola 
esistenziale. La metafora centrale del poemetto, eponimo della silloge, é 
appunto quello del viaggio connesso al motivo della memoria e della morte, in 
particolare del passaggio da vita a morte. E un viaggio che si prefigge come 
meta il Nulla, lo spazio vuoto che si fende a stento di Ja dalla stazione-morte. 
Domina nella poesia il sentimento del distacco e, di conseguenza, la 
“cerimoniosita” che scorta siffatto sentimento. Una voce, un “io” nel corso del 
poemetto si accinge a separarsi dai suoi compagni di viaggio, nello 
scompartimento di un treno. E si appresta, ovviamente, a congedarsi-esiliarsi 
dalla collettivita sociale e dalla vita stessa, essendo ormai pervenuto “alla 
disperazione / calma, senza sgomento”, quindi risulta impossibile una 
qualsivoglia attesa: Addio(Congedo del viaggiatore cerimonioso, in Caproni, 
Tutte le poesie 258). Solitudine, esodo, deserto della vita si impongono, 
puntellando |’ordito dei versi, in maniera tersa entro un paesaggio nudo, in cui 
risaltano il ‘“buio” e |’ “oscurita” (La /anterna, Il bicchiere). Di poi, nello 
spossessamento, nella dissipazione, nello sconvolgimento del limite e dell’oltre, 
la vox della poesia si rivela essere invero scampata parola. In tal senso, il 
viaggio mediante la vita, completamente inabissata, totalmente svampita del 
“viaggiatore cerimonioso” ininterrottamente proteso agli avanzanti “congedi”, si 
€ mutato in iter attraverso il verbum. Siffatto rapporto con la parola viene a 
rendersi nella postuma Res amissa (1991) eccelso, tanto da sfociare in una sorta 
di esilio incondizionato dalla realta. 

Condizione di permanente esilio vive Angelo Mundula nella sua citta 
Sassari, laddove pur “nasce |’aurora del verso” nitido odisseico: “Questa é la 
citta dell’esilio / dove un nome é stato cancellato. /[...] Solo il nome cancellato 
é testimone / che qualcuno (qualcosa) c’é stato / che l’esule presto o tardi ritorna 
/ nella citta dov’é nato”. ** Questa di Mundula é un’odissea minore, tutta 
modulata sulla lingua della stessa solitudine, nella cui struttura é possibile 
avvertire una emotiva movenza ulissiaca (// mare inesorabile, p. 22). La silloge 
Per mare & quasi tutta intessuta di sottili tame dell’esule o dell’ansia del nostos: 


Dopo mille catastrofi e citta perdute 
il viaggiatore é finalmente universale e apolide 


8 Di Legami, // seme del piangere e il desiderio di un oltre. Parole di essenza e di 
assenza in Dante, Caproni, Giudici, in “Per correr mglior acque ... (892). 
*° Mundula. . Sassari, in ID. , Per mare, Cittadella (89). 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 49 


€ ogni volta si chiede a quale citta approdi 
lui che non ha anagrafe ma solo passaporti 
c’est un jeu d’enfant un jeu de l’oie 
se la nuova citta é sempre una béance 
un porto che s’illumina della nave che va. 
(Quasi un gioco dell’oca 30) 


Il viaggio per mare — percorso da istanze metafisiche — é indicativo anche 
di un viaggio altro, attraverso il quale Mundula tenta di ricreare l’idea della 
poesia, quale dialogo dell’essere e del certo e — per ricorrere a una espressione di 
Montale — come “scala a Dio”, ponendo come punto di partenza Sassari, la citta 
del suo esilio, per il perseverante iter che conduce alla Luce, laddove il visus é 
ineffabile. 

Il piu “totale” e, forse, pil alto libro di Mario Luzi, Viaggio terrestre e 
celeste di Simone Martini (1994), rivela un grande nostos poematico e sinfonico, 
nel suo sogno palingenetico di una poesia che, nonostante tutto, pud ancora 
salvare il mondo, riguadagnarlo alla civilta, alla sua essenza umana, vincendo la 
barriera del tempo e degli uomini: 


Per amore di chi 
scrive 
e convive 
lui chierico vagante 
queste carte 
di esilio, di viaggio? 
di rimpatrio, di estraneamento.... *° 


Simone Martini € l’emblema dell’artista exu/ nel nostro tragico, ultimo 
Novecento. Egli viene rappresentato dal poeta in un conclusivo metaforico 
viaggio da Avignone alla citta natale, Siena, viaggio etereo e metafisico, ma, nel 
contempo, tangibile e umano.  Trattasi di un peregrinare dell’anima alla 
riscoperta della dimensione terrena, ma é€ anche, questo viaggio, una 
purificazione dello spirito. Di qui gli inquietanti interrogativi da parte di Luzi 
posti ad apertura dell’ultima sua silloge, Parole pellegrine (2001): 


Mondo, in che parte 
di me o di te ero? 
A cosa ero d’un colpo 


fatto complice e straniero? 
(1999)*! 


*° Luzi, Per amore di chi, Viaggio terrestre e celeste di Simone Martini, in ID. , L’opera 
poetica (968). 
*' Luzi, Parole pellegrine (15). 


50 Giuseppe De Marco 
E significativo il fatto che sia proprio Luzi a scrivere che 


l’esilio € una metafora ricorrente nella poesia moderna. Esclusione, separazione, e 
alienazione costituiscono infatti lo stato variabile ma permanente che il poeta occidentale 
moderno (ma non solo post-leopardiano) accusa come sofferenza e diminuzione 
impostegli: ed € un patema cosi fondamentale che si pud considerare subiacente a 
qualunque disegno o forma |’esperienza vada assumendo — siano pure nominalmente 
antitetici per conclamato ottimismo. come sarebbe un ‘irreale /aus vitae. [...] 

La dissidenza o lo spaesamento dell’esilio circolano [...] nel regime poetico 
moderno ora in modo evidente ora a un livello cosi profondo che solo per via di metafore 
possiamo decifrarli. Tutto questo ha generato molte specie di arbitri e di storture. Oggi 
noi forse abusiamo per consuetudine e vizio mentali, nel frequentarla e nel decifrarla o 
nel comodamente presumerla quella metafora, quasi topos senza piu relazione con la 
sostanza. Mi ha per questo avvinto l’idea che la rilettura di Dante mi suggeriva: dalla 
metafora risalire alla realta primaria. dal nome riportarci alla cosa e alla causa che gia 
contenevano evidentemente tutte le derivate [...].** 


Alla fine di questo percorso, sorge spontanea la seguente domanda: quale 
lezione puo impartire l’Esilio a uno scrittore fuoriuscito? Al riguardo, Brodskij — 
Premio Nobel per la Letteratura nel 1987, esiliato dalla Russia nel 1972 — 
risponde in questi termini: 


[...] se c’é qualcosa di buono nell’esilio é che insegna l’umilta. Si pud perfino arrivare a 
dire che quella dell’esilio € la pit: alta Lezione di umilta, la lezione definitiva. Ed é tanto 
piu preziosa per uno scrittore in quanto gli apre la pil ampia prospettiva possibile [...]. 
Essere sperduti in mezzo al genere umano, nella folla — folla? —, tra miliardi di individui; 
diventare un ago in quel proverbiale pagliaio — ma un ago che qualcuno va cercando -, 
questo € l’esilio, in sostanza. Ammaina la tua vanita, dice l’esilio, non sei che un 
granello di sabbia nel deserto. [...] C’é un/altra verita [...] ed é che l’esilio é una 
condizione metafisica. [...] la realta si riduce ad uno scrittore esule che passa il suo 
tempo a lottare e tramare per riaffermare il proprio significato, il suo ruolo incisivo, la 
propria autorita. Il suo pensiero dominante. naturalmente, é per coloro che ha lasciato in 
patria: [...].7° 


Analizzando, poi, la condizione di uno scrittore in esilio, Brodskij, la 
paragona crudelmente a quella 


di un cane randagio o di un uomo catapultato nello spazio dentro una capsula (somiglia di 
pil a quella di un cane, naturalmente, perché nessuno si preoccupera mai di recuperarti). 
E la tua capsula é il tuo linguaggio. [...] Per uno che fa il mio mestiere la condizione che 
chiamiamo esilio é¢, prima di tutto, un evento linguistico: uno scrittore esule é scagliato, o 
si ritira, dentro la sua madrelingua. Quella che era, per cosi dire, la sua spada, diventa il 
suo scudo. la sua capsula. (32) 


* Luzi M.. L'esilio, Dante, la poesia (200-01). 
~ Brodskij, La condizione che chiamiamo esilio, in ID. , Dall 'esilio (19-20). 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 51 


Invece Bujor Nedelcovici, scrittore e saggista rumeno, nota che I’esilio, per 
i numerosi intellettuali del Ventesimo secolo, é “sia un viaggio iniziatico che 
una prova della verita”; la condizione di “meteco” (métoikos - straniero) “é 
difficile da vivere e l’esiliato rimane uno straniero tormentato dall’ossessione di 
conservare la propria dignita di uomo”. “ Per l’albanese Kadaré, poi, lo scrittore 
é un esule per natura e ricorda Dante Alighieri che ebbe “la brillante idea di 
opporsi alle baruffe politiche tra le due fazioni antagoniste della sua citta e 
questo gli costo un lungo esilio (nella citta vicina!)”. E aggiunge, non senza 
una punta di graffiante ironia: “[. . . ] in quest’esilio egli scrisse una delle piu 
grandi opere della letteratura universale: La Divina Commedia. Abbiamo 
motivo di domandare se non sia stata questa la vera ragione del suo 
allontanamento”.*° 

E noto che negli anni Trenta, per sfuggire al nazismo, molti intellettuali 
furono costretti ad abbandonare la Germania e i Paesi occupati: Freud, Popper, 
Canetti lasciarono Vienna per Londra; Bertoldt Brecht e T. Mann si rifugiarono 
negli Stati Uniti; Stephan Zweig ripard in Brasile, dove si suicidd; Walter 
Benjamin emigro a Parigi e anch’egli si suicidd sul confine franco-spagnolo, a 
Port Bou, mentre tentava di sfuggire alla Gestapo. Ancor pil! della Germania 
nazista — nota, a buona ragione, Nedelcovici — é |’Unione Sovietica a diventare 
nel Ventesimo secolo la pit’ grande generatrice di esuli. Famoso il caso di 
Solgenistin. Inoltre, l’odissea di personalita, quali Picasso, Chagall, Kandinskj, 
Camus, Samuel Beckett, Mircea Eliade, ha solcato la storia scientifica, letteraria 
ed artistica del tragico Novecento. 

“Cos’é l’intellettuale di oggi se non |’Esule, che alla cecita del consumismo 
oppone la solitudine della sua grandezza e la forza del suo unico credo?” Cosi 
concludeva Giovanna Scarsi la nota alla quarta di copertina d’un nostro volume, 
Mitografia dell’esule. Da Dante al Novecento (1996). Ebbene, il Mondo oggi 
rivendica, se pure troppo tardi, il bisogno di recupero del primato della cultura 
ed il ripristino della funzione dell’intellettuale, identificato nelle forze vive di 
una minoranza e della giovinezza militante. Al fondo, con realismo ottimistico 
auspichiamo che la lettura di queste pagine dia occasione di meditazione ed 
offra spunti di sollecitazione all’impegno attivo, perché |’intellettuale — nella 
fiducia della collettivita — esca dallo splendido isolamento di “esule” 
incompreso ed accolga il richiamo dei tempi alla sua missione di dotto, che 
valga — lungi da qualsivoglia forma di mera retorica! — a formare la Coscienza 
per un Futuro migliore. 


Omignano Scala, Salerno 


“4 Nedelcovici. La letteratura come patria, I miti dell ‘esilio (17). 
45 Kadaré, // viaggiatore venuto da lontano (21). 


52 Giuseppe De Marco 
Opere citate 


AA. VV.. Dante e le citta dell'esilio. Atti del Convegno internazionale di studi (Ravenna 
11-13 settembre 1987), direzione scientifica Di Pino G., Ravenna, Longo, 1989. 
Alighieri D.. Commedia, Paradiso, a cura di Chiavacci Leonardi A. M., Milano, A. 

Mondatori, “I Meridiani”, 1997, vol. III. 

Alighieri D., Commedia, Purgatorio, a cura di Chiavacci Leonardi A. M., Milano, A. 
Mondadori. “I Meridiani", 1998°. vol. II. 

Alighieri D.. Opere minori. a cura di Mengaldo V. - Nardi V. - Frugoni A. - Brugnoli G. - 
Cecchini E. - Mazzoni F., Milano-Napoli, Ricciardi, 1979, vol. V, t. Il; Rime, a 
cura di Contini G.. in Opere minori. Milano—Napoli, Classici Ricciardi-Mondadori, 
1995. vol. I. t. 1; Convivio, a cura di Vasoli C. - De Robertis D., in Alighieri D., 
Opere minori, Milano-Napoli, Classici Ricciardi-Mondadori, 1995, vol. II, t. I. 

Alighieri D., La Commedia secondo l|'antica vulgata, a cura di Petrocchi G., Societa 
Dantesca Italiana. Edizione Nazionale, Firenze, Le Lettere, 19947, voll. 1-4. 

Asor Rosa A., La fondazione del laico, in Letteratura italiana, dir. da ID., Le Questioni, 
Torino, Einaudi, 1986, V, pp. 90-93, ora in ID., Genus italicum. Saggi sulla 
identita letteraria italiana nel corso del tempo, ivi, 1997, pp. 34-142. 

Barberi Squarotti G., Spiegazione e profezia, in Letture Classensi. Costruzione narrativa 
e coscienza profetistica nella “Divina Commedia”, a cura di Mineo N., Ravenna, 
Longo. 2000, vol. 29, pp. 105-29. 

Battistini A., L ‘estremo approdo: Ravenna, in AA. VV., Dante e le citta dell’esilio, op. 
cit., pp. 155-75. 

Biasin G. P., L'esilio e il contagio, in L’esilio come certezza. La ricerca d’identita 
culturale in Italia dalla Rivoluzione francese ai nostri giorni, a cura di Ciccarelli A. 
-Giordano P. A., “Italiana” VII, West Lafayette, Bordighera, 1998, pp. 95-111. 

Brodskij I., Da/l'esilio, traduzione di Forti G., Milano, Adelphi, 1988. 

Bruni L.. Vita di Dante, in ID., Opere letterarie e politiche, a cura di Viti P., “Classici 
latini” dir. da Lana I., Torino, UTET. 1996, pp. 539-52. 

Caproni G., Tutte le poesie. Milano, Garzanti, “Gli Elefanti”, 1999. 

Cottignoli A.. Magnanimita e ‘praesumptio’ (Inf. XIV-XV), in ID., Le metafore della 
ragione. Dante Manzoni Tenca, Pisa, Giardini, 1988, pp. 21-35. 

Crifo G.. Esilio, in Enciclopedia del diritto, XV. Milano, Giuffré, 1966, pp. 712-22. 

De Marco G.. Mitografia dell’esule. Da Dante al Novecento, Napoli, Edizioni 
Scientifiche Italiane, 1996. 

Deanovié M.. Letture dantesche in un campo di concentramento, in Dante e il mondo 
slavo (Atti del Convegno di Studi —Dubrovnik 26-29 ottobre 1981), Zagabria, 1984, 


pp. 107-08. 
Di Legami F., // seme del piangere e il desiderio di un oltre. Parole di essenza e di 
assenza in Dante, Caproni, Giudici, in “Per correr mglior acque...”. Bilanci e 


prospettive degli studi danteschi alle soglie del nuovo millennio. Atti del Convegno 
di Verona-Ravenna 25-29 ottobre 1999, Roma, Salerno Editrice, 2001, t. II, pp. 
875-97. 
Di Pino G., Esilio e letteratura, in AA. VV., Dante e le citta dell 'esilio, pp. 207-23. 
, Firenze nella immaginativa oltremondana di Dante, in Miscellanea di Studi 
Danteschi in memoria di Silvio Pasquazi, Napoli, Federico & Ardia, 1993, vol. I, pp. 
325-39. 


L’esperienza di Dante exul immeritus 53 


Di Siviglia I.. Eqvmologiarum sive Originum libri XX, a cura di Lindsay W. M., Oxford, 
1985. 

Documenti danteschi, in AA. VV., Il processo di Dante, a cura di Ricci D., Firenze, 
Arnaud. 1966. 

Ghisalberti C., La condanna al bando nel diritto comune, “Archivio Giuridico ‘Filippo 
Serafini’ “, CLVIII, 1960, pp. 3-75 

Giglio R., L ‘autobiografia come purificazione (If X e XII), in ID., Il volo di Ulisse e di 
Dante. Altri studi sulla Commedia, Napoli, Loffredo, 19997, pp. 33-57. 

Iannucci A. A., L'esilio di Dante: “per colpa di tempo e di fortuna", in Dal Medioevo al 
Petrarca. Miscellanea di studi in onore di Vittore Branca, Firenze, Olschki, 1983, 
vol. I. pp. 215-32. 

. Dante:poeta o profeta?, in Per correr miglior acque...”’. [...], t. 1, pp. 93-114. 

Kadaré I.. // viaggiatore venuto da lontano, “I\ Corriere dell’Unesco”, I, gennaio 1997, 
cit., pp. 20-21. 

Leicht P. S., Storia del diritto italiano. Il diritto privato, P. 1., Milano, Giuffré, 1960, pp. 
25-27. 

Luzi M.. L ‘opera poetica, a cura e con un saggio introduttivo di Verdino S., Milano, A. 
Mondadori, “I Meridiani”, 1998. 

Luzi M., L ‘esilio, Dante, la poesia, in 1D., Naturalezza del poeta. Saggi critici, a cura di 
Quiriconi G.. Milano, Garzanti, 1995, pp. 200-208. 

Luzi M., Parole pellegrine, Napoli, T. Pironti. 2001. 

Marchi C., Dante in esilio, Milano, Longanesi & C., 1976’. 

Mercuri R., Genesi della tradizione letteraria italiana in Dante, Petrarca e Boccaccio, in 
Letteratura italiana. Storia e geografia, 1, L'eta medievale, dir. da Asor Rosa A.., 
Torino, Einaudi. 1987, pp. 229-455. 

Michelstaedter C.. Episto/ario, a cura di Campailla S., Milano, Adelphi, 1983. 

Miglio M., Snodi della biografia dantesca, in “Per correr miglior acque...”. Bilanci e 
prospettive degli studi danteschi alle soglie del nuovo millennio. Atti del Convegno 
di Verona-Ravenna 25-29 ottobre 1999, Roma, Salerno Editrice, 2001, t. I,pp. 41- 
55. 

Montale E., L’opera in versi, a cura di Bettarini R. -Contini G., Torino, Einaudi, “I 
Millenni”, 1980. 

Mundula A., Per mare, Cittadella (PD), Nuove Amadeus Edizioni, 1993. 

Nedelcovici B.. La letteratura come patria, I miti dell'esilio, “11 Corriere dell’ Unesco", I, 
gennaio 1997, pp. 17-18. 

Padoan G.., // progetto di poema paradisiaco: “Vita nuova", XLII (e l'epistola di Ilaro), 
in ID., // lungo cammino del “Poema sacro". Studi danteschi, Firenze, Olschki, 
1993. pp. 5-23. 

Palma di Cesnola M., Semiotica dantesca. Profetismo e diacronia, Ravenna, Longo, 
1995. 

Pasquini E.. La parabola dell'esilio, in 1D..Dante e le figure del vero. La fabbrica della 
Commedia, Milano, B. Mondadori, 2001, pp. 122-48. 

Pavese C., Poesie edite e inedite, a cura di Calvino I., Torino, Einaudi, 1981. 

Petrarca F., Canzoniere, a cura di Antonelli R. -Contini G. -Ponchiroli D., Torino, 
Einaudi. 1992. 

Petrocchi G.. Vita di Dante, Roma-Bari, Laterza, 1983. 

Rigo P., “Prendero ‘Il cappello”, in EAD., Memoria classica e memoria biblica in Dante, 


54 Giuseppe De Marco 


Firenze, Olschki, 1994, pp. 135-63. 

Russo V., Dante exul inmeritus: variazioni compositive sul /dal tema, “Esperienze 
letterarie", XVII, 2. 1992, pp. 3-17. 

Sbarbaro C.. L ‘opera in versi e in prosa. a cura di Lagorio G. -Schewiller V., Milano, 
Garzanti. 1985. 

Sermonti V. (a cura di) La Divina Commedia, Inferno V1, Milano, Edizioni scolastiche 
B. Mondadori, 1996,vol. I. 

Sodi R. B.. 4 Dante of Our Time: Primo Levi and Auschwitz, New York, Peter Lang, 
1990. 

Ungaretti G.. Vita d'un uomo. Tutte le poesie, a cura di Piccioni L., Milano, A. 
Mondadori, 1992. 

Villani G., Nuova cronica, Edizione critica a cura di Porta G., Parma, Fondazione Pietro 
Bembo, Guanda, 1991, vol. II. 


Robert Wilson 








Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid” 


Any list of exiled authors almost invariably includes Dante and Ovid, probably 
the two most famous exiled poets of all.! Indeed Ovidius exsul became virtually 
an exemplum of literary exile in the Middle Ages, and has been a point of 
reference for exiled writers since.” Despite the fact that both are categorised as 
exiles Dante cannot be included among those who consciously position 
themselves in a line of descent from Ovid. 

There is no need to repeat here the numerous Ovidian references, echoes 
and allusions present in Dante’s work, however we can still partly agree with 
Edward Moore’s observation: “It does not appear, however, that Dante’s 
familiarity with Ovid extended much beyond the Metamorphoses [...]” (Moore 
206).3 There are no references to Ovid’s exile poetry in Moore’s list of 
quotations, and his conclusion requires some clarification.4 The paucity of 
Ovidian references outside of the Metamorphoses does not necessarily mean that 
Dante was unfamiliar with the rest of Ovid’s work; it may rather indicate a 
choice not to refer to it.5 There are also suggestions that Dante did know and 


: I thank my friends Ruth Unsworth, Carla Spadavecchia, Carlo Caruso, and Massimo 
Rizzante for help of different sorts with this study. The theme is an appropriate memorial 
for my father who died this year. 

! Seidel gives this short list: “Ovid, Dante, Swift, Rousseau, Madame de Staél, Hugo, 
Lawrence, Mann, Brecht” (x). Tabori’s historical survey includes Ovid (63-64), and 
Dante (69-71). Guillén’s study of literature and exile also includes Ovid (30; 36-40; 47) 
and Dante (46-53). 

2 “[...] he [Ovid] stands at the head of a whole line of exiled artists, many of whom 
invoke him in their works” (Hexter 83). Hexter (83n2) includes a list of modern writers 
and examines medieval testimonia beginning with Jerome (89-97). See, too, Viarre on 
the same topic. 

3 Brugnoli observes: “Fu autorevole conclusione di Edward Moore sia che |’Ovidio di 
Dante fosse in sostanza l’Ovidio delle Metamorfosi [...]” (141). 

4 Moore lists quotations as follows: 91 from the Metamorphoses, 5 from the Heroides, | 
from the Ars amatoria, 2 from the Remedium Amoris (349-51). For a more recent 
indication see the index locorum in Jacoff and Schnapp (320-22) which lists references 
from the Ars, Fasti, Heroides, Metamorphoses, and the Remedium, but none from the 
Tristia or Ex Ponto. 

5 “Like the Aeneid, the Metamorphoses is a key text for the Commedia, but Dante does 
not make its author a significant character in the narrative, nor does he encourage us to 


Annali d’Ttalianistica (2002) 20 


56 Robert Wilson 


refer to Ovid’s exile poetry. Most obvious of all, however, is the simple fact 
that Ovid is never mentioned by Dante with reference to his exile. Horace is 
“Orazio satiro” (/nf. IV. 89), but Ovid is simply “‘l terzo” (Inf. IV. 90). We 
might even be tempted to force out of this a concealed reference to the “terzo” 
Ovidio, i.e. the Ovid of the Tristia and Ex Ponto, coming after the first (Amores) 
and second (Metamorphoses) Ovids.’ Wouldn’t it have been simple enough to 
make some reference to Ovid the exile, and what better figure than Ovid to start 
the series of predictions in the Commedia relating to Dante’s own exile? Instead 
the presence of Ovid’s exile poetry in Dante’s work is at best slight, especially 
when compared to that of the Metamorphoses. 

It may be, as Moore suggested, that Dante did not know these works, 
although their notable presence in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries would 
have made them difficult to avoid.8 In view of the considerable non-exilic 
Ovidian presence in Dante’s work, it is more likely that Dante did know these 
works as well. If this assumption were true, it would mean that he chose not to 
associate his exile with that of Ovid. 

In fact, there is a fundamental difference in the exile experiences of these 
two poets. Dante is exiled from Florence whilst Ovid is exiled to Tomis. My 
intention, in this brief consideration of the matter, is to draw attention to this 
basic difference in orientation and suggest that it determines certain features in 
the literary treatment of his exile by each poet.? Other fundamental differences 
are to be borne in mind from the outset. Ovid’s “exile poetry” is just that. The 
Tristia and Ex Ponto are written in and about exile, and their purpose is to effect 
their author’s return to Rome or mitigation of his punishment through transfer to 
a more amenable location. For Dante, exile is a constant theme which appears 
not only throughout the Commedia, but in his letters, lyric poetry, Convivio and 


think biographically about Ovid — a pointed choice given the fate of exile both poets 
suffered” (Jacoff 9). 

6 “Dante himself made use of the Tristia together with the other works of Ovid” 
(Wheeler xxxviii). Wheeler makes this rather general observation without providing any 
further explanation or supporting references to Ovid’s or Dante’s works. More specific 
references are given by Picone and Smarr. Smarr also notes Paratore’s earlier suggestion 
that Dante used the Tristia (141n5). See Paratore (227, 229). 

Picone notes these three images of Ovid found in medieval culture (7-8). Smarr 
suggests a more general parallel between these three Ovidian moments, in reverse order, 
and the three cantiche of the Commedia, characterised by exile, transformation and love 
(151). With regard to the particular description of Ovid as “terzo,” Smarr proposes a link 
with Tristia IV. x. 53-55 where Ovid places himself “quartus” in a list of poetic 
oe and successors (149). See, too, Picone (8-9n5). 

Hexter (86-88) mentions their popularity, especially in the 12th and 13th centuries, and 
their inclusion in manuscripts along with other of Ovid’s works. 

9 In following this rather narrow question, I do not intend to provide an extensive 
bibliography on Ovid and Dante. For a further bibliography see Picone and Sowell. 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 57 


De vulgari eloquentia.!° However no work by Dante is solely devoted to this 
question, there is no “exile poetry” as such, and his aims are different to those of 
Ovid. Their attitudes to their respective situations are very different, so that they 
have been described almost as positive and negative exempla of exile (Smarr 
140). In particular the places of exile are treated very differently by each poet, 
and this stems from the basic difference in their types of exile. 

There are various dictionary definitions of the term “exile” and a common 
thread running through them is the idea of exclusion, normally exclusion from 
the place which the individual in exile regards as home.!! We can see this in one 
of the best known “dictionary” definitions so to speak. In the Etymologies 
Isidore of Seville describes exile, exilium, as follows: “Exilium dictum quasi 
extra solum. Nam exul dicitur qui extra solum est.”!? In this part of Isidore’s 
definition the fundamental direction or orientation understood in the term 
exilium is one of exclusion from the soil or home. Home, so/um, the soil, 
becomes the important place. The emphasis then is determined by this direction, 
the exile is in exile from home. In the case of Ovid, however, things are slightly 
different. 

“Strictly speaking Ovid was punished not by exile but by relegation” 
(Thibault 11). Our main source of information for this fact remains Ovid himself, 
and there is no additional contemporary information. Although this has prompted 
some recent speculation as to whether it happened at all or is simply a pretext for 
his poetry, that issue need not concern us.!3 Ovid states: 


adde quod edictum, quamuis inmite minaxque, 
attamen in poenae nomine lene fuit: 
quippe relegatus, non exul, dicor in illo. 
(Tristia II. 135-37)!4 


10 See De Marco for a list of some of the main passages (18-29). 
11 paul Tabori considers a variety of definitions from dictionaries and other sources near 
the beginning of his study; see especially 23-24; 27. See also Seidel ix. 

Etymologiarum, V. xxvii. 28. “Exile means, as it were, ‘outside the soil’ — extra 
solum. For he who is ‘outside his own ground’ is called an exile” (Starn 1). Starn 
suggests that Isidore’s definition may come from Cassiodorus and ultimately be traced 
back to Cicero. This part of Isidore’s definition is also quoted by Trone (362). Isidore 
gives this same definition in book I, though here as a guide to spelling: ““Exsul’ addito S 
debet scribi, quia exsul dicitur qui extra solum est.” 

3 Williams 3-4; Claassen, Displaced Persons 34-35; 181; 269n90; 295n87-88. Both 
consider this position, giving the main bibliographical references. Whilst acknowledging 
the lack of historical basis for Ovid’s relegation, they view the total fiction hypothesis as 
improbable for various reasons, and not strictly relevant to a literary discussion of Ovid’s 

oetry. 
i4 “Moreover the decree, though harsh and threatening, / Was lenient when it named the 
penalty. / Not exile was pronounced but relegation” (trans. Melville 99). The Latin text is 


58 Robert Wilson 


He is even clearer in writing to his wife when he hears she has been insulted for 
being the wife of an exile: 


fallitur iste tamen, quo iudice nominor exul: 
mollior est culpam poena secuta meam. 


[...] mec uitam nec opes nec ius mihi ciuis ademit, 
quae merui uitio perdere cuncta meo, 

sed quia peccato facinus non adfuit ullum, 

nil nisi me patriis iussit abesse focis, 


[...] ipse relegati, non exulis utitur in me 
nomine: [...] 
(Tristia V. xi. 9-10; 15-18; 21)!5 


This is an important distinction and Ovid points out that it means he retains his 
property and some hope of return.!© Despite these very clear statements, his final 
injunction to whoever was trying to insult his wife — “At tu fortuna, cuius uocor 
exul ab ore, / nomine mendaci parce grauate meam” (Tristia V. xi. 29-30) — has 
often gone unheeded by later generations of readers and commentators.!? 
Medieval descriptions of the poet, lives of Ovid and various accessus to his 
works range from clarity to more indiscriminate uses of the terms exu/ and 
exilium.'8 A lack of precision can even be found in legal treatments of the matter 


from Hall’s edition. All translations of the Tristia are from Melville. Although based 
mainly on Wheeler’s edition, Melville’s translation of the lines quoted in this article is 
not affected by the changes in Hall’s edition. 

13 “vet he is wrong who judges me an exile: / My fault received a milder punishment. 
[...] My life, my wealth, my civic rights he left me, / All of which I could have lost 
deservedly; / But since when I transgressed, no crime was present, / Absence from home 
was all he ordered me. [...] Not ‘exile’ he pronounced but ‘relegation’.” 

16 In addition to the passages quoted, see e.g. “nec uitam nec opes nec ademit posse 
reuerti” (Ex Ponto |. vii 47). “He took from me neither life nor property nor the 
possiuy of return” (trans. Wheeler 303). 

7 “But you who call me ‘exile’, cease to burden / My lot with a description that’s not 
true.” The use of the term “exile” in secondary literature on Ovid is widespread and 
needs no repetition here, as a look at the list of works cited will show. 

18 Thibault (24-27) gives 18 short quotations regarding the cause of Ovid’s 
condemnation from sources dating from about the Sth to the 15th century. The term 
exsilium, or some form of it, is used in passages 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 14, 17, 18, whilst there 
is no use of any form of the term relegatio. The accessus quoted by Hexter explain the 
different forms which exile could take (220; 221-22; 227). Of the sixteen biographies 
included as appendices by Ghisalberti, one uses both relegatio and exilium and includes 
an explanation (G, 49-50); two use relegatus without explanation (M, 56; P, 59); two use 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 59 


by writers who might be expected to know better.!9 It is perhaps harsh to be too 
critical of those describing Ovid as an exile, however, since he himself is not 
consistent in his use of terminology, and his text was the main source of 
information for his medieval commentators (Ghisalberti 25). His clear statements 
about being re/egatus do not prevent him from taking on the identity of exu/ ina 
number of places in his “exile” poetry. Ovid uses forms of relegare and 
relegatus, five times in the Tristia and four times in the Ex Ponto.2° He also uses 
the terms exu/ or exilium in clear statements that this is not his position six times 
in the Tristia.2! Against this are twenty uses of the terms exul or exilium directly 
applied by Ovid to himself or his punishment in the Tristia, and sixteen in the Ex 
Ponto.22 To this we can add three uses in the 7ristia and four in the Ex Ponto, 
where he compares himself to other exiles, concluding that he is worse off than 
they.23 He speaks of exilium seven times in his requests for a milder place of 
exile.24 Finally his wife, in joining him in exile, would herself become exu/.2> 
Ovid is writing poetry of course, and apart from technical considerations, such as 
the influence of metrical constraints for example, a certain amount of freedom is 
to be expected. This portrayal of himself as an exile rather than a re/egatus has 
also been interpreted as part of a deliberate general strategy of exaggerating his 
suffering to elicit sympathy.2© Ovid’s hopes and requests that he be “exiled” to a 
better place than Tomis are particularly telling, since in speaking of exile rather 
than relegation he may technically be asking for a more serious punishment. 

On the other hand, there are critics who choose their words more carefully, 
preferring to use terms such as banishment or simply relegation for the sake of 


relegatus and exilium without explanation (E, 47; I, 51); three use exilium (F, 49; N, 57; 
O, 58). 

19 “tn the third century exilium is used even by jurists for relegatio, e.g. by Marcianus 
(Digest, XLVIII. 22) though his contemporary, Paulus more correctly contrasts the two 
words” (Strachan-Davidson Vol. II 66-67n4 quoting Paulus 69n1). Although not a legal 
writer, Tacitus also refers to relegation as exile in his Annales (III. 24. 2-3) quoted by 
Baumann (54) as an example of the looser use of the term. 

9 Tristia I. vii. 8: II. 137; 201; V. ii. 21; xi. 21. Ex Ponto I. vii 42; II. ii. 7; IV. xiii. 40; 
xv. 2. All are listed in Deferrari, Barry, and Maguire. 

21 Tristia Il. 137; V. ii. 57; xi. 2; 9; 21; 29. Note that Deferrari et al., in the best 
Isidorean tradition, use the spellings exsu/ and exsilium. The concordance is based on the 
1922 Teubner editions. 

2 Tristia I. i. 3; ii. 37; 74; I. iii. 82; 1. v. 66; I. 188; IIL. i. 1; iii. 36; 66; iv. 45; xi. 36 
(twice); xiii. 3; xiv. 30; IV. i. 3; 45; 49; x. 74; V. ix. 6; V. x. 40. Ex Ponto I. i. 61; 65; I. 
iii. 43; I. v. 4; 8; I. viii. 7; II. vi. 3; I. vii. 63; 67; I. ix. 66; IIL. i. 10; 38; III. iti. 23; 39; 
III. vii. 34; IV. iv. 50. 

23 Tristia Il. i. 188; III. xiv. 11; 12. Ex Ponto I. i. 22; 1. ii. 109; I. iii. 75; 82. 
24 Tristia Il. 185; 577; Ex Ponto I. ii. 104; Il. viii. 72; IV. iv. 51. 

25 Tristia I. iii. 82. 

26 See Owen 44-45; Strachan-Davidson Vol. II 66n4; Dickinson 154. 


60 Robert Wilson 


greater precision.2’ The definition by Isidore we have noted above continues: 
“Dividitur autem exilium in relegatis et deportatis. Relegatus est, quem bona sua 
sequuntur: deportatus, quem non sequuntur.” (Etymologiarum, V. xxvii. 28-29). 
So relegation is defined as a category, a sub-group of exile, and the emphasis is 
placed on the retention of property by the re/egatus. A fuller explanation is 
provided by Arnulph of Orleans in his accessus to the Tristia: 


Quatuor quoque apud Romanos dicuntur fuisse genera exilii, proscriptio, inscriptio, 
relegatio, exilium. Proscriptus dicebatur cuius bona publicabantur et ipse sine aliqua spe 
revertendi missus est in exilium, inscriptus, cuius bona etiam publicabantur et ipse domi 
inter amicos retentus, relegatus, cuius bona non publicabantur et ipse sub spe redeundi in 
exilium missus, exul, cuius bona publicabantur et ipse sub aliqua spe revertendi in 
exilium missus.28 


Arnulph’s explanation draws attention to the same two aspects of relegation 
stressed by Ovid: the retention of property, and therefore no attendant poverty; 
and the possibility of return. His provision of an explanation implies that he 
expects to have to correct the sort of imprecision on the differences between 
exile and relegation which we have already noted.2? The hope of return is 
particularly important as this is, using Arnulph’s terms, the cause of the intention 
of the work, and also relates to its purpose, utilitas, which is for Ovid to return 
home (Elliott, 34-35). He does not draw any special attention to the significant 
difference between relegation and exile in geographical terms, namely, that 
relegation in effect constitutes a form of imprisonment. Ovid is not subjected to 
wandering poverty and reliance on the charity or hospitality of others, as we will 
see in the case of Dante, but instead is limited in geographical terms to a place he 


27 For example, Thibault (4 f) takes care to use the term “relegation,” despite the title of 
his book. Owen, who explains the difference (8-9; 43-44), then rather curiously translates 
Tristia II. 137 as “I am described as removed (relegatus) not banished (exul)” (Owen 99). 
28 “There are said to have been four types of exile among the Romans: proscription, 
inscription, relegation, and exile. Someone was said to be proscribed when his property 
was confiscated and he was sent into exile without any hope of returning; inscribed if his 
goods were also confiscated and when he was kept at home among his friends; relegated 
when his property was not confiscated and when he was exiled with hope of returning; 
exiled, the one whose goods were confiscated and who was sent into exile with no hope 
of returning” (trans. Elliott 35). Latin text from Elliott 34, also in Huygens 36. See too 
Ghisalberti 35; 43. 

29 “Not only did medieval scholars, like their modern counterparts, feel it incumbent on 
them to explain the reason for Ovid’s exile, but they wanted their students to learn the 
precise definitions of the different types of banishment from Rome — expecting more 
‘historical’ knowledge of their pupils, I would say, than instructors do today” (Hexter 
101-02). The accessus to the Ex Ponto given by Hexter (220) includes a similar 
explanation to that in Arnulph, with the addition of a memory aid in hexameters. See, 
too, 106-07. 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 61 


cannot leave. In short, he is exiled to as well as from, and for Ovid it is this 
aspect of the experience which looms largest. 

Obviously the treatment of the theme of exile by Ovid is an enormous 
subject about which much can be and has been said. My intention here is simply 
to refer to some general features in relation to the question of relegation. The 
following section of one of Ovid’s elegies to his wife in book V of the Tristia 
will serve to illustrate some of the recurring points he makes concerning his 
situation. In this concluding part he addresses Augustus: 


ira quidem moderata tua est, uitamque dedisti, 
nec mihi ius ciuis nec mihi nomen abest, 
nec mea concessa est aliis fortuna, nec exul 
edicti uerbis nominor ipse tui. 
omnia quae timui, quoniam meruisse uidebar; 
sed tua peccato lenior ira meo est: 
arua relegatum iussisti uisere Ponti, 
et Scythicum profuga scindere puppe fretum. 
iussus ad Euxini deformia litora ueni 
aequoris — haec gelido terra sub axe iacet — 
nec me tam cruciat numquam sine frigore caelum, 
glaebaque canenti semper obusta gelu, 
nesciaque est uocis quod barbara lingua Latinae, 
Graiaque quod Getico uicta loquela sono est, 
quam quod finitimo cinctus premor undique Marte, 
uixque breuis tutum murus ab hoste facit. 
pax tamen interdum est, pacis fiducia numquam: 
sic nunc hic patitur, nunc timet arma locus. 
hinc ego dum muter, uel me Zanclaea Charybdis 
deuoret aque suis ad Styga mittat aquis, 
uel rapidae flammis urar patienter in Aetnae, 
uel freta Leucadio mittar in alta modo. 
Quod petimus, poena est: neque enim miser esse recuso, 
sed precor ut possim tutius esse miser.” 
(Tristia V. ii. 55-78)°° 





30 “Indeed your anger’s mild: my life you’ve given me, / I’m still a citizen in rights and 
style, / My property has not been passed to others; / your edict did not name me an exile. 
/ All this I dreaded, thinking I deserved it, / But less than my offence your wrath decrees. 
/ To Pontus’ land you had me relegated, / My fleeing vessel cleaving Scythian seas. / So 
on the Black sea’s shapeless shores I landed / (Beneath the icy Pole that land is lost); / 
And I’m not so tormented by the freezing / Climate, the ground for ever white with frost, 
/ The barbarous tongue that’s ignorant of Latin, / The Getic dialect destroying greek, / As 
on all sides war close by surrounds me, / And the low walls for safety are too weak. / 
Sometimes there’s peace, but peace not to be trusted; / Either the place endures or dreads 
the foe. / Could I but leave here, let Charybdis swallow me, / Her waters wash me down 


62 Robert Wilson 


We can see then from the beginning of the section, lines 55-60, Ovid’s 
recognition both of his own guilt (me meruisse uidebam) and the leniency of 
Caesar in the sentence of relegation, not exile. Ovid then retains property and 
citizenship, as we have seen in the case of relegation. He constantly accepts and 
admits his guilt, but pleading that he is guilty of a less serious misdeed, or 
mistake, error, rather than a crime, crimen.3! Although more recent critics 
recommend a more nuanced reading of the exile poetry, in which Augustus is 
criticised in indirect ways, nevertheless Ovid never explicitly attacks him or 
openly challenges his judgement.32 Ovid is sent to Pontus (I. 61) and we may 
note that this is the emphasis he makes, rather than that of absence from Rome. 
Ovid’s treatment of Rome is filled with his nostalgia and longing, perhaps for a 
way of life rather than a physical iocation, and it is frequently represented as the 
antithesis of Tomis. His attachment to Rome is not that of the native, whilst 
Sulmo does not feature greatly in the exile poetry.?3 In Ovid’s poetry Rome and 
Caesar do not become confused, Caesar is always the cause of his relegation. It 
is sufficient to note here that Rome is always dear to Ovid and positively 
portrayed by him. I mention this because, as we will see, Dante does not always 
distinguish so carefully between his city and those in power there. Ovid’s 
attention is focused on his place of exile (Il. 61-72). It is far away and savage 
(62-64), and to emphasise this point he indulges in some poetic licence with his 
geography. Strictly speaking, Pontus is in Moesia rather than Scythia, but 
Scythia, stereotypically distant and savage, has much more resonance for his 
Roman readers. So Ovid has no hesitation in relocating Tomis there.34 

The harshness of the climate (1. 65) and land itself, perpetually frozen (I. 


to Styx below, / Or let me plunge to Leucas’ deeps or, fast in / Fierce Etna’s flames, burn 
patiently away! / A punishment I seek: I’m set to suffer. / But just for safer suffering I 

ray.” Hall’s edition numbers these lines 2b. 11-34. 

| For a clear example of his admission of blame, see Tristia I. ii. 95-100. Ovid’s famous 
statement in Tristia Il. 202-08 accepts his crimen, then re-classifies it as an error. For 
similar examples, see Tristia IT. 240; 250; III. v. 52; III. vi. 35. 

2 On the idea that Ovid’s exile poetry contains criticisms of Augustus, see Nagle 8; 153- 
54; 173-74. Williams 154-58; 179-193. Claassen, Displaced Persons 147-153. Casali is 
probably the most insistent, with a call for more nuanced readings of Ovid and a 
suggestion that the attacks found in the /bis are directed towards the emperor. 

Tristia. 1V. x. 3-4. Ovid names Sulmo, his birthplace, and immediately locates it in 
relation to Rome (Ex Ponto. IV. xiv. 49). Here Ovid compares the hospitality of the 
Tomitans to that of the inhabitants of his native Sulmo. Is it impossible for Ovid to put 
Rome and Tomis in the same category? Are the Romans less hospitable? This suggests 
some interesting questions outside the scope of this discussion. 

4 Williams (8) provides a detailed geographical and ethnographic analysis, as well as 
examines the literary stereotypes associated with Scythia (3-49). See, too, Claassen, 
Displaced Persons 190-204; and “Ovid’s Poetic Pontus.” 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 63 


66), is another recurrent theme in Ovid’s complaints about Tomis.>> He also 
complains of the barbaric nature of the culture in which he find himself (ll. 67- 
68), which is an important component in his claims that his poetic ability and 
even his command of Latin is suffering as a result of this environment.2® These 
however would be bearable but for the constant insecurity in which he lives, 
under the continual threat of war (Il. 69-72). If he could choose an alternative 
location, he names even places of certain death as preferable (Il. 73-76). 

The identification of relegation to Tomis with death is another common 
theme, strongest possibly in Tristia |. iii., where his departure from Rome is 
likened to a funeral. Finally he concludes with a direct appeal for a change of 
location (1. 75), picking up the earlier introduction of the idea (I. 73) that he 
might exchange Tomis for another place, ever careful to accept his punishment 
(1. 77). This last aim of Ovid’s is a direct result of the fact that he is relegatus, 
and therefore confined to a particular area. The choice of so distant a location 
does seem particularly harsh compared to other cases of relegation.3” Tomis then 
constitutes a constant preoccupation, obsession we might say, for Ovid in his 
exile poetry. His criticisms are extreme: “[...] suntque ultima uota / quolibet ex 
istis scilicet ire locis; / nulla mihi cura est, terra quo mittar ab ista” (Ex Ponto IV. 
xiv. 5-7).38 This is the sort of thing, he tells us, which has incurred the wrath of 
the Tomitans and his apology which follows does at least recognise the 
hospitality and generosity of his hosts, as he attempts to explain the difference 
between his attacks on the place and his appreciation of its inhabitants.79 Despite 
Ovid’s attempts to be more positive about Tomis and its inhabitants his apology 
is a very small drop in a very large ocean of invective. What is most striking 
about the lines quoted above is their orientation. Ovid’s last prayer, u/tima uota, 
is not, as we might expect, seeking a return to Rome, but rather to get away from 
this wretched place, ex istis [...] Jocis, not caring where he goes. This statement 
exemplifies the way in which Ovid’s orientation as a re/egatus, as one exiled toa 
particular place, is a determining factor in his literary treatment of his exile. 

Dante’s exile is very different. In the first place the various sentences are 


35 Especially at Tristia V. x. 1-4. and Ex Ponto IV. x. 37-64 on the frozen Danube and 
Black Sea. Picone suggests a connection between Ovid’s frozen sea and Dante’s frozen 
Cocytus in the /nferno (16-19). 

6 For example, Tristia I. i; IIT. xiv; V. i; vii. On this topic see Nagle 109-25; 169-171. 
Williams 50-99. 

7 “Le lieu de relégation d’Ovide est exceptionnel” (André vi). He also mentions other 
instances of relegation to islands off the Italian coast, and that of Cassius Severus who 
was sent to Crete. See, too, Bauman 52. 

8 “[...] my final prayer is to / to go anywhere away from this place; / I don’t care where I 
am sent to from a place like this” (translation is mine). Wheeler’s Latin text has “muter” 
instead of “mittar.” 

39 Ex Ponto IV. xiv. 23-24, 47-50, 59-60. See the comments at note 33 above. 


64 Robert Wilson 


documented, naming Dante along with some others. The first sentence, of the 
27th of January 1302, gives Dante and the others three days to present 
themselves and pay fines and restitution, promising, however, should they 
manage to do so, that they will still be condemned to a two-year period outside 
Tuscany.*9 Their failure to respond is followed up on the 10th of March with a 
sentence of death should they enter Florence.4! As an action of the state of 
Florence against a group, Dante’s exile does not have the same individual and 
personal element present in Ovid’s relationship with Augustus. It has been noted 
that Ovid’s sentence resulted in part from his poetic activity, he himself mentions 
his carmen, whilst Dante’s is wholly political in nature (Guillén 48-49). Unlike 
Ovid’s case, the charges against Dante, generally held to be spurious, are 
likewise a matter of record, and the underlying reason, a change in the political 
regime, is also clear.42 Dante himself seems to have indicated his activities 
during his tenure as prior as the source of his troubles, although it is clear from 
the Commedia that he sees the political machinations of Pope Boniface VIII at 
the root of the changes which eventually led to his exile.*3 

In fact an alternative form of punishment, similar in some ways to 
relegation, was in use by the Florentines at this time. Confino imposed a short 
stay at a distance from Florence, and had been used to remove leading figures of 
both the Black and White Guelph factions from the city as recently as 1300. 
Among those sent to Sarzana was Dante’s close friend Guido Cavalcanti , who 
sadly contracted malaria and died as a result after his return to Florence.*4 
Despite the obvious similarities however, there seems to have been no parallel 


40 Document 90 in Piattoli 103-07. The wording “nichilominus stare debeat extra 
provinciam Tuscie ad confines duobus annis” (Piattoli 107) suggests possibly confino as 
the punishment. 

41 Document 91 in Piattoli 107-09. The wording here, “[...] ut si quis predictorum ullo 
tempore in fortiam dicti comunis [Florentie] pervenerit, talis perveniens comburatur sic 
quod moriatur [...],” is clearly exclusion under pain of death by burning from Florence, 
and for an unlimited period. Document 115 (Piattoli 155-57) gives the condemnation of 
the 6th of November 1315. Starn describes step by step the procedure exiling Dante (67- 
76). 

42 Starn 71-72; Bemrose 61-62. 

3 Bruni quotes the part of the letter, now lost, in which Dante describes his election to 
the priorate as the cause of his misfortune (36). Toynbee (xx-xxi) quotes the passage 
from Bruni, and adds a further reference to the letter from Bruni’s Historiae Florentinae. 
Dante’s views on Boniface need no repetition. Compagni, II. 2. takes a similar, albeit 
partisan, position. 

44 Bruni (39-40) and Compagni (I. 21.) both mention this incident, using the verb 
confinare. It is also noted by Bemrose 49-50; Starn 71-72; Toynbee xxi-xxii. 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 65 


drawn explicitly at the time between this punishment and relegation.4> 

Dante is exiled from Florentine territory, where he spends that exile is not 
determined by the sentence. This has been interpreted as an indication of the 
limited extent of Florentine power (Starn 66-67; 76-80). This is all the more 
apparent when compared to the situation of Augustus, whose imperium stretches 
far enough to allow him to banish Ovid to the “end of the world.”4® Dante was 
not limited to any particular location, which meant that he could remain in fairly 
close proximity to Florence, thus experiencing less of the cultural isolation 
described by Ovid.*” Boccaccio tells us that he spent the early part of his exile in 
Tuscany, and his final resting place in Ravenna is concrete testimony to the more 
local nature of his exile.48 

Dante’s wandering brings poverty with it, as he famously describes in the 
Convivio: 


Poi che fu piacere delli cittadini della bellissima e famosissima figlia di Roma, Fiorenza, 
di gittarmi fuori del suo dolce seno — nel quale nato e nutrito fui in fino al colmo della 
vita mia, e nel quale, con buona pace di quella, desidero con tutto lo core di riposare 
l’animo stancato e terminare lo tempo che m’é dato —, per le parti quasi tutte alle quali 
questa lingua si stende, peregrino, quasi mendicando, sono andato, mostrando contra mia 
voglia la piaga de la fortuna, che suole ingiustamente al piagato molte volte essere 
imputata. Veramente io sono stato legno sanza vela e sanza governo, portato a diversi 
porti e foci e liti dal vento secco che vapora la dolorosa povertade [...]” 

(Convivio I. iii. 4-5) 49 


His love for Florence and pride in his city is still apparent and he separates 
it here from its citizens. Dante’s attention is all on the place from which he has 
been exiled; where he then goes is unspecified and unimportant to him. The 
importance of Florence to Dante has prompted its description as “indubbia 


45 Starn notes some of the differences between the two as a possible explanation why the 
Florentines did not take what he regards as the obvious course and seek a precedent for 
confino in the practice of relegatio (80-81). 

6 Tristia I. i. 127-28. “[...] nobis habitabitur orbis / ultimus, a terra terra remota mea” 
od I at the world’s end / will dwell, in a land from my land far away”). 

Tabori notes an observation by the exiled postwar Polish writer, Joseph Wittlin, that 
the Spanish writers in the civil war period in exile in South America found themselves at 
least in a Hispanic culture (32). 

8 “{_..] andava vagando per Toscana” (Boccaccio 29). This quotation is from section 72 
of Boccaccio’s first version of the Trattatello. In the second version, section 54, he adds 
details of Dante’s poverty and time spent in Lombardy as well as Tuscany. Barbi’s 
comment captures the main point: “L’esilio rallargd l’orizzonte di Dante e di fiorentino 
lo fece cittadino d’Italia.” (19). 

9 Another clear indication of his poverty is given in the letter to Oberto and Guido da 
Romena, Epistola II in Toynbee’s edition, where he complains of the “inopina paupertas 
quam fecit exilium,” (“the unlooked-for poverty brought about by exile”) (17-18). 


66 Robert Wilson 


deuteragonista della Commedia” (Ragni 920). His relationship with the city 
which exiled him moves continually between love and condemnation, nor is he 
always so careful to distinguish between the city and its inhabitants.°° We can 
see immediately the differences between this form of exile and the relegatio 
which Ovid describes. 

Before continuing we should note a first attitude to exile on the part of 
Dante in which he is attempting to return to Florence and so takes a more 
conciliatory tone. He is reported as having written to a number of influential 
citizens in Florence in the early part of his exile in order to be recalled, although 
these letters are not now extant.>! Bruni mentions in particular “un’epistola assai 
lunga, che incomincia: Popule mi, quid feci tibi?” (43).52 Dante’s change of tone 
towards the Florentines is associated by Bruni in his Vita di Dante with the entry 
of Henry VII into Italy (43; Toynbee xxii). Be that as it may, it is certainly this 
second phase, so to speak, which typifies Dante’s approach to his exile as it is 
commonly perceived today. 

The best known statement which Dante makes about his exile must be the 
prophecy which he puts in the mouth of his ancestor Cacciaguida: 


Qual si partio Ipolito d’Atene 
per la spietata e perfida noverca, 
tal di Fiorenza partir ti convene. 
Questo si vuole e questo gia si cerca, 
e tosto verra fatto a chi cid pensa 
la dove Cristo tutto di si merca. 
La colpa seguira la parte offensa 
in grido, come suol; ma la vendetta 
fia testimonio al ver che la dispensa. 
Tu lascerai ogne cosa diletta 
pill caramente; e questo é quello strale 
che I’arco de lo essilio pria saetta. 
Tu proverai si come sa di sale 
lo pane altrui, e come é duro calle 


50 E.g., the most famous condemnation of Florence must be the opening of J/nferno 
XXVI, where the whole city is addressed. Then again Florence is still Dante’s “bello 
ovile” as late as Paradiso XXV. 5. Dante’s ambivalence towards Florence is well known 
and needs no further examination here. 

51 The canzone Tre donne intorno al cor mi son venute belongs to this first 
reconciliatory period, according to the interpretation of Foster and Boyde, II, 288-90. See 
too Toynbee xxii. 

2 The opening line of the letter is from Micah 6: 3, and is the opening of a rather harsh 
rebuke by God directed towards Israel on account of the people’s ungratefulness. It 
seems like an unpromising start by Dante; however, Bruni is very clear that his aim was 
to ingratiate himself with the Florentines, and Monti (vii) suggests that Bruni’s mention 
of the letter’s length indicates that he had had direct contact with it. 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 67 


lo scendere e ‘I salir per l’altrui scale. 


Te ldle comet cic etpecedehs och lt Dyers J 


Lo primo tuo refugio e ’! primo ostello 
sara la cortesia del gran Lombardo 
che ’n su la scala porta il santo uccello; 
ch’in te avra si benigno riguardo, 
che del fare e del chieder, tra voi due, 
fia primo quel che tra li altri é pit tardo.” 
(Paradiso, XVII. 46-60; 70-74) 


Cacciaguida’s prophecy is the culmination of a series of prophecies Dante 
personaggio has received regarding his exile, the most striking being those of 
Ciacco (/nf. VI), Farinata degli Uberti (/mf- X), and Brunetto Latini (nf. XV). 
These concentrate largely on the vice and factional violence rife in Florence and 
hint that their obscure meaning will be clarified later. Despite apparently 
referring to Beatrice, it is Cacciaguida who spells out for Dante what will 
happen.°> The lines given above reveal some of the main points regarding 
Dante’s presentation of his exile. First Dante will be driven from Florence, so 
immediately his exile is given its primary orientation. The reference to the story 
of Hippolytus is an interesting point of contact with Ovid, since Dante must be 
referring to the story in the Metamorphoses (Book XV).>4 Again we might note 
Dante’s preference for a non-exilic Ovidian text, especially for reference to his 
own situation. The obvious points are the innocence of Hippolytus and Dante, 
and the cruelty and dishonesty of Phaedra and Florence. Florence as stepmother 
rather than real mother may be intended as an additional sting. The role of 
Boniface VIII is also noted (49-51), before Cacciaguida clarifies where the 
blame lies and underlines the injustice of Dante’s punishment. The description of 
the very personal experience of exile which follows concentrates first on what is 
left behind (55-57) and then on what lies ahead (58-60). When Dante talks about 
pane altrui and altrui scale, this reveals his basic orientation in exile. This 
negative picture is geographically non-specific, which incidentally gives it a sort 
of universal resonance for any experience of exile. This contrasts rather sharply 
with Ovid’s desperation to leave Tomis, when, as we have seen, he will happily 
go anywhere else. For Dante anywhere else but Florence will always entail a 
place he does not recognize as his own but altrui. The problem with the places 
where he will spend his exile is nothing specific to those places: what is wrong 
with them is simply that they are not Florence. 


53 Dante refers to “donna che sapra” (Inf. XV. 90). This reference has been seen as a 
problem since the explanation he refers to appears to be provided by Cacciaguida, not 
Beatrice. The problem need not concern this discussion. 

4 Starn sees Dante’s phrase, exul immeritus, as taken from the same story in Ovid, 
although the reference to Metam. XV. 504 does not seem particularly close (128; 
192n34). 


68 Robert Wilson 


Cacciaguida delivers a harsh criticism of the other exiles among whom 
Dante will find himself and advises him to abandon their company (61-69, 
omitted above). He then praises the generosity of the exiled Dante’s first host, 
who will provide a refugio and ostello. This reference seems to refer to 
Bartolommeo della Scala, but the important point for our discussion is the praise 
and gratitude Dante expresses towards the particular places where he spends his 
exile. Dante’s position in exile is such that he cannot afford to be too critical 
since he is always a guest, and in general is mindful of his debt of gratitude 
towards his hosts. One of the most striking examples of this is his praise for the 
Malaspina family in Lunigiana, who appointed him procurator in 1306 
(Purgatorio VIII. 121-32).°> As a corollary, we may note his warning to betrayers 
of guests, destined in his scheme of things for the penultimate division of Hell. 

Taken together, Dante’s positive comments about geographically specific 
locations and actual individuals, and his negative, but geographically 
anonymous, picture of the bitter personal experience of exile, show that he 
locates his exile internally rather than externally. He is not restricted to any 
particular place and so does not associate his suffering specifically with any of 
the places where he spends his exile. Even if he changes his location, he carries 
the fact that he is excluded from Florence with him. This then requires an 
internal solution to the problem for Dante, who seeks to change the meaning of 
his exile, and widen his horizons. Ovid, on the other hand is, in effect, a prisoner, 
not free to move from Tomis, and this fact dominates his treatment of his exile. 

Dante makes little use of Ovid’s exile poetry and seems not to relate to him 
as a fellow exile. Understood as a deliberate choice by Dante, this may be 
because he was aware of the technical differences between his exile and Ovid’s 
relegation. We have already seen that some of the medieval accessus contain 
explanations of this point, and the idea that Ovid is confined, or “imprisoned,” 
actually appears in a passing reference in Brunetto Latini’s Livres dou Tresor.>® 
Alternatively it may simply be that he found little in Ovid’s experience to mirror 
his own. 

Neither poet returned from exile, although Dante did have a chance to do so. 
In 1315 he was offered the possibility of return to Florence under certain 
conditions, including the payment of fines and undergoing a humiliating 
penitential ritual (Bemrose 192-93; Starn 84-85). We may speculate on Ovid’s 
likely response to such an opportunity; Dante’s is recorded in a letter (Toynbee 


55 The record of his appointment as procurator is given by Piattoli 118-25, document 99. 
On his positive treatment of Lunigiana in general, see Giannantonio. 

6 “Et sachez que Ovides li tres bon poetes, quant li empereres le mist em prison, [...]” 
(I. clx. 7, 146). This is also quoted by Casali 103. Latini appears to be referring here to 
the /bis. 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 69 


Letter IX).°’ Each of the three parts of the Commedia famously ends with 
reference to the sfe//e, and in the conclusion to his letter he explains what they 
mean to him as an exile: 


Non est haec via redeundi ad patriam, Pater mi; sed si alia per vos antecedenter, deinde 
per alios invenitur, quae famae Dantisque honori non deroget, illam non lentis passibus 
acceptabo. Quod si per nullam talem Florentia introitur, nunquam Florentiam introibo. 
Quidni? nonne solis astrorumque specula ubique conspiciam? Nonne dulcissimas 
veritates potero speculari ubique sub coelo, ni prius inglorium, immo ignominiosum 
populo Florentino civitati me reddam? Quippe nec panis deficiet. *8 


We may recall that Dante is still under Italian skies, whilst Ovid points out the 
foreign nature of the constellations above him in Tomis.°? Nevertheless, there is 
a very clear difference in attitude when Ovid considers the stars: 


Siquis adhuc istic meminit Nasonis adempti, 
et superest sine me nomen in urbe meum. 
suppositum stellis numquam tangentibus aequor 
me sciat in media uiuere barbarie. 
(Tristia III. x. 1-4)®° 


Dante looks at the stars and tries to console himself with the world beyond 
Florence. Ovid looks at the stars and they remind him that he is imprisoned in 
Tomis. 


University of St. Andrews 


57 Some of Toynbee’s comments are corrected by Bemrose (192-93). Starn (84) and 
Guillén (52-53) also quote from it. 

8 “This is no way to return to my native city, my father; but if some other way is found 
by you first or later by others which does not detract from the fame and honour of Dante, 
that I will accept with no slow steps; but if Florence cannot be entered by such a path, I 
will never enter Florence. What then? Can I not look at the face of the sun and stars 
anywhere? Will I not be able to contemplate the sweetest truths anywhere beneath the 
sky, without first giving myself up in disgrace, even dishonour, to the people and city of 
Florence? certainly I will not lack bread.” The Latin text is from Toynbee’s edition; the 
translation is mine. 

59 Eg. Tristia, V. iii. 7-8. 
60 «I someone there remembers banished Ovid / And in the City my name without me / 
Lives, let him know I dwell among barbarians / Beneath the stars that never touch the 


” 


sea. 


70 Robert Wilson 
Works Cited 


Accessus ad Auctores. Bernard D'Utrecht. Conrad D’Hirsau. Dialogus super auctores. 
Ed. R. B. C. Huygens. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1970. 

Alighieri, Dante. La commedia secondo I'antica vulgata. Ed. Giorgio Petrocchi. 2nd ed. 
Firenze: Le Lettere, 1994. 

. Convivio. Ed. Franca Brambilla Ageno. Firenze: Le Lettere, 1995. 

. Dante's Lyric Poetry. Ed. Kenelm Foster and Patrick Boyde. 2 vols. Oxford: 
Clarendon Press, 1967. 

. Dantis Alagherii Epistolae. Le lettere di Dante. Ed. Arnaldo Monti. Milano: 
Hoepli, 1921. 

. Dantis Alagherii Epistolae. The Letters of Dante. Ed. Paget Toynbee. 2nd ed. 
Ed. Colin Hardie. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1966. 

Barbi, Michele. Vita di Dante. Firenze: Le Lettere, 1996. 1961. 

Bauman, Richard A. Crime and Punishment in Ancient Rome. London & New York: 
Routledge, 1996. 

Bemrose, Stephen. A New Life of Dante. Exeter: U of Exeter P, 2000. 

Boccaccio, Giovanni. Trattatello in laude di Dante. Ed. Luigi Sasso. Milano: Garzanti, 
1995. 

Brugnoli, G. “Forme ovidiane in Dante.” Studi Danteschi II. I tempi cristiani di Dante e 
altri studi danteschi. 141-58. Pisa: ETS, 1998. Originally in Aetates Ovidianae: 
lettori di Ovidio dall’antichita al Rinascimento. Ed. Italo Gallo and Luciano 
Nicastri. Napoli: Edizioni scientifiche italiane, 1995. 

Bruni, Leonardo, Le vite di Dante e del Petrarca. Ed. Antonio Lanza. Roma: Archivio 
Guido Izzi, 1987. 

Casali, Sergio. “Quaerenti plura legendum: On the Necessity of ‘Reading More’ in 
Ovid’s Exile Poetry.” Ramus: Critical Studies in Greek and Roman Literature 22.1 
(1997): 80-112. 

. Displaced Persons: The Literature of Exile from Cicero to Boethius. London: 
Duckworth, 1999. 

Claassen, Jo-Marie. “Ovid’s Poetic Pontus.” Papers of the Leeds International Latin 
Seminar 6 (1990): 65-94. 

Compagni, Dino. La Cronica e la canzone morale “Del Pregio.” Ed. Isidoro Del Lungo. 
Firenze: Le Monnier, 1939. 

De Marco, Giuseppe. Mitografia dell’esule: da Dante al Novecento. Napoli: Edizioni 
scientifiche italiane, 1996. 

Deferrari, Roy Joseph, M. Inviolata Barry, and Martin R. P. McGuire. A Concordance of 
Ovid. Washington, DC: The Catholic U of America P, 1939. 

Dickinson, R.J. “The Tristia: Poetry in Exile.” Ovid. Ed. J. W. Binns. London: Routledge 
& Kegan Paul, 1973. 154-90. 

Elliott, Alison G., trans. “Accessus ad Auctores: Twelfth-Century Introductions to Ovid.” 
Allegorica: A Journal of Medieval and Renaissance Literature 5.1 (1980): 6-48. 
Enciclopedia dantesca. Ed. Umberto Bosco. 6 vols. Roma: Istituto della enciclopedia 

italiana fondata da Giovanni Treccani, 1970-78. 

Ghisalberti, Fausto. “Medieval Biographies of Ovid.” Journal of the Warburg and 

Courtald Institute 9 (1946): 10-59. 


Exile and Relegation in Dante and Ovid 71 


Giannantonio, Pompeo. “Dante e la lunigiana.” Dante e le citta dell’esilio. Ed. Guido Di 
Pino. Ravenna: Longo, 1989. 33-46. 

Guillén, Claudio. Multiples morades. Ensayo de literatura comparada. Barcelona: 
TusQuets, 1998. 

Hexter, Ralph, J. Ovid and Medieval Schooling: Studies in Medieval School 
Commentaries on Ovid's Ars amatoria, Epistulae ex Ponto, and Epistulae heroidum. 
Munich: Arbeo-Gesellschaft, 1986. 

Isidore of Seville. Etymologiarum sive originum: libri XX. Ed. W.M. Lindsay. Oxford: 
Clarendon Press, 1911. 

Jacoff, Rachel, “Introduction.” Jacoff and Schnapp 1-15. 

Jacoff, Rachel, and Jeffrey T. Schnapp, eds. The Poetry of Allusion: Virgil and Ovid in 
Dante's Commedia. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1991. 

Latini, Brunetto. Li Livres dou Tresor. Ed. Francis. J. Carmody. Geneva: Slatkine 
Reprints, 1998. Los Angeles: Berkeley, 1948. 

Moore, Edward. Studies in Dante. First Series. Scripture and Classical Authors in 
Dante. Ed. and intro. Colin Hardie. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1969. 

Nagle, Betty Rose. The Poetics of Exile: Program and Polemic in the Tristia and 
Epistulae ex Ponto of Ovid. Brussells: Latomus, 1980. 

Ovid. Tristia. Ex Ponto. Ed. and trans. A. L. Wheeler. Revised G. P. Goold. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 2002. Rpt. in Loeb Classical Library of 1988, 2nd ed. 

. Tristes. Ed. Jacques André. Paris: Les Belles Lettres, 1968. 

. Ex Ponto. Libri Quattuor. Ed. J. A. Richmond. Leipzig: Teubner, 1990. 

. Tristia. Ed. J. B. Hall. Leipzig: Teubner, 1995. 

. Tristium Liber Secundus. Ed. S. G. Owen. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1924. 

. Sorrows of an Exile. Tristia. Trans. A. D. Melville. Intro. and notes E. J. 
Kenney. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1992. 

Paratore, Ettore. “Ovidio.” Enciclopedia dantesca. 

Piattoli, Renato. Codice diplomatico dantesco. 2nd ed. Firenze: Gonnelli, 1950. 

Picone, M. “Dante, Ovidio e la poesia dell’esilio.” Rassegna europea di letteratura 
italiana 14 (1999): 7-23. 

Ragni, Eugenio. “Firenze.” Enciclopedia dantesca. 

Seidel, Michael. Exile and the Narrative Imagination. New Haven: Yale UP, 1986. 

Smarr, Janet Levarie. “Poets of Love and Exile.” Dante and Ovid: Essays in 
Intertextuality. Ed. Madison U. Sowell. Binghamton, NY: Center for Medieval and 
Early Renaissance Studies, 1991. 139-51. 

Sowell, Madison U., ed. Dante and Ovid: Essays in Intertextuality. Binghamton, NY: 
Center for Medieval and Early Renaissance Studies, 1991. 153-72. 

Starn, Randolph. Contrary Commonwealth. The Theme of Exile in Medieval and 
Renaissance Italy. Berkeley: U of California P, 1982. 

Strachan-Davidson, James Leigh. Problems of the Roman Criminal Law, 2 vols. Oxford: 
Clarendon Press, 1912. 

Tabori, Paul. The Anatomy of Exile. A Semantic and Historical Study. London: Harrap, 
1972. 

Thibault, John C. The Mystery of Ovid's Exile. Berkeley: U of California P, 1964. 

Trone, George Andrew. “Exile.” The Dante Encyclopedia. Ed. Richard Lansing. New 
York: Garland, 2000. 362-65. 


72 Robert Wilson 


Viarre, S. “Exil ovidien, exil medieval.” Colloque Présence d’Ovide. Ed. R. Chevallier. 
Paris: Les Belles Lettres, 1982. 261-71. 

Williams, Gareth, D. Banished Voices. Readings in Ovid's Exile Poetry. Cambridge: 
Cambridge UP, 1994. 


Guy Raffa 





Dante’s Poetics of Exile 


“We will not complain of Dante’s miseries: had all gone right with him as he wished 
it, he might have been Prior, Podesta, or whatsoever they call it, of Florence, well 
accepted among neighbours, — and the world had wanted one of the most notable 
words ever spoken or sung. Florence would have had another prosperous Lord 
Mayor; and the ten dumb centuries continued voiceless, and the ten other listening 
centuries (for there will be ten of them and more) had no Divina Commedia to 
hear!” 

(Carlyle 195) 


Molto mi meraviglio, o messer Cante, 
podesta venerando e cavaliero, 

non v’abbia Italia ancor piantato intiero 
in marmo di Carrara e dritto stante 


sur una piazza, ove al bel ceffo austero 

vostro passeggi il popolo d’avante, 

0 primo, o solo ispirator di Dante, 

quando ladro il dannaste e barattiero [...] 
(Carducci, Giambi ed epodi 194) 


Dante’s experience of exile seven centuries ago and its representation in his 
works — principally the Commedia — place him at the center of a long, 
continuing tradition. It is one of history’s fortuitous ironies that Dante’s first- 
hand experience of the hardships of displacement and wandering should provide 
the very foundation for a literary home so hospitable and nourishing to later 
writers, artists, and intellectuals. The medieval Italian poet’s representation of 
his exile looks back to biblical and classical precursors — including Adam, 
Moses, Ulysses, Aeneas, Jesus, Ovid, and Boethius — and forward to such 
“modern” avatars of expatriation and estrangement as Ugo Foscolo, Alexander 
Pushkin, Victor Hugo, Karl Marx, James Joyce, Osip Mandelstam, and Primo 
Levi, among many others. With this powerful influence, it is perhaps fitting that 
a recent collection of essays, many of which touch on exile in political, cultural, 
or literary terms, recognizes the continuing centrality of Dante’s exilic narrative 
not only through important textual references but by literally wrapping itself in a 
dust-jacket illustration of the exiled Florentine poet.’ 





' “Dante in Exile,” by Domenico Peterlin (c. 1865), adorns Edward W. Said’s Reflections 
on Exile and Other Essays. Dante’s poem, for Said, illustrates how ‘Artists in exile are 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


74 Guy Raffa 


Dante was certainly well acquainted with the politics of exile from his years 
in Florence, not least through his acquaintance with older Florentines who had 
returned from exile (notably Brunetto Latini) and through his own vexed role in 
the banishment — ultimately fatal — of his best friend, Guido Cavalcanti, in the 
summer of 1300. But it was only through his personal experience of exile, 
rendered definitive in the Florentine decree of March 10, 1302, that Dante could 
fully grasp the literal, material dimension of a condition that, like the allegory of 
poets, was frequently adorned with only a symbolic, moral patina of meaning.” 
The brutal reality of permanent exile from Florence shocked Dante into 
reevaluating his place in the world and turning his loss into the realization of a 
singular artistic achievement. As both a socio-historical reality and a literary- 
mythological theme, exile provided a conceptual basis for Dante’s use of figural 
hermeneutics and the allegory of theologians in the Commedia: individuals 
fulfilling in the poem their “prefigured” historical lives, and, more broadly, 
allegorical levels of meaning building on, not replacing, literal signification of 
the text. Dante’s exile, thus conceived, is more metonymic than metaphoric, a 
marker of continuity with, not substitution for, the past, a catalyst for revision 
rather than repudiation. 

Herein lies what is arguably Dante’s most original contribution and a source 
of his diffuse and lasting appeal: unlike the convert, one who, in the dominant 
Pauline-Augustinian model, must slay the old life to establish the new, Dante the 
exile crosses textual and theological boundaries to both reclaim and critique his 
past. Conflicted by the seemingly irreconcilable emotions of righteous anger and 
nostalgic affection arising from banishment, Dante learns to embrace and 
promote a worldview as difficult as it is essential to imagine. He comes to 
interpret the world — reflected in his poetic universe — as a paradoxical site of 
“both—and” possibilities rather than the “either—or”’ dichotomies dictated by 
biblical and medieval conversion narratives. Rejecting both the absolutism of 
facile oppositional thought and the relativism of simplistic undifferentiation, 
Dante’s poetics of exile coincides with a way of life that requires hard, 
responsible choices at every juncture. Exile is at best an uncomfortable 
experience, and the lessons it teaches are thus similarly uncomfortable if worthy 
ones. Indeed, in the case of the Commedia, the messy complications, in which 
dialectical paradoxes trump reductive oppositions and false equivalencies, are 
what make the poem such a meaningful and pleasurable challenge to read, study, 
and teach. 

The conversion narrative, as famously championed by Augustine, 


decidedly unpleasant, and their stubbornness insinuates itself into even their exalted 
works [...]. Who but an exile like Dante, banished from Florence, would use eternity as a 
place for settling old scores?” (182). 

* Starn discusses Dante’s own exile (60-85) within a larger discussion of exile in 
medieval and Renaissance Italy. 


Dante’s Poetics of Exile 75 


encourages a violent rejection of one’s past life to enable a new, better life to 
take hold: “[...] where I had offered my sacrifice, slaying my old man, and 
beginning the purpose of my newness in life, putting my hope in you — there 
did you begin to grow sweet to me, and to put gladness in my heart” 
(Confessions 9.4).’ Predicated on the erasure of one’s past (“slaying my old 
man’) as a condition for “newness in life,” conversion is an act of substitution or 
replacement, with a clean, if constructed, break between “before” and “after.” 
As such, it accords rhetorically with the notion of metaphor, as conceived by 
Roman Jakobson and elucidated by David Lodge (73-81). Exile, on the other 
hand, more often than not engenders a metonymic situation insofar as metonymy 
— again following Jakobson and Lodge — describes a relationship (for 
instance, between past and present) in terms of contiguity. The exile, in other 
words, commonly adopts a perspective, at times blatantly contradictory, that 
must somehow encompass both past and present in terms of time, place, and 
people. The past may be lost but is not forgotten — often in the hope that it will 
be regained — while the present may appear provisional and fluid. Both 
narratives, conversion and exile, underpin the narrative structure of the 
Commedia and thus authorize distinct, if complementary, interpretive 
approaches to the poem and its relation to other texts as well as to the world of 
its author and that of its readers.* 

From the conversion narrative, based on the metaphoric substitution of a 
better present and future for a deleterious past, arises an oppositional 
hermeneutics for reading literary texts as well as the story of one’s life. 
Consistent with the unbridgeable eschatological gap separating the damned from 
the blessed, this approach, applied to the Commedia, typically identifies an in 
bono figure from purgatory or paradise that “corrects” its in malo counterpart in 
hell. Based on metonymic contiguity between past and present, a hermeneutics 
of exile seeks rather to account for the dialectical dimension of Dante’s poetic 
and theological imagination. Dialectic, from among its many incarnations, is 
here understood as the “dialectic of paradox” that is adumbrated in Plato’s 
Parmenides, developed by Hegel and Kierkegaard, and occasionally used in 
contemporary literary studies, Dante criticism in particular. Stephen N. Dunning 
defines this “dialectic of paradox” as a transformational dialectic that 
“simultaneously affirms the theoretical dialectic of contradiction and the 
transactional dialectic of reciprocity.” While “theoretical” thinkers thrive on 
oppositions and “transactional” ones aim at _ reconciliation, the 





3 “f.] ubi sacrificaveram mactans vetustatem meam, et inchoata meditatione 
renovationis meae, sperans in te, ibi mihi dulcescere coeperas et dederas laetitiam in 
corde meo.” 
‘ Freccero’s work in particular demonstrates significant benefits, but also limitations, to 
viewing Dante’s poetry primarily through the lens of this Pauline-Augustinian conversion 
perspective. 


76 Guy Raffa 


“transformational” type imagines the paradoxical embrace of both dialectical 
relationships at once. “The dialectic of transformation,” according to Dunning, 
“is paradoxical through and through. It wants to have things both ways at once” 
(7). Dante certainly warrants inclusion among the broad range of influential 
practitioners of this transformational dialect of paradox discussed in Dunning’s 
study. 

Dante’s poetics of exile, consistent with this dialectic of paradox, draws on 
and combines the two interpretive procedures perhaps most followed in Dante 
criticism: the oppositional in malo / in bono model of conversion described 
above, and a modified version of Erich Auerbach’s influential articulation of 
figural reading as “a connection between two events or persons, the first of 
which signifies not only itself but also the second, while the second 
encompasses or fulfills the first” (53). Although Auerbach limits his approach to 
historical figures — for instance, Cato, Virgil, and Beatrice — who are fulfilled 
sub specie aeternitatis as characters in the poem, his interpretive operation can 
yield sound results when used to gloss characters and events within the poem’s 
own “historical” unfolding. Strategic use of figural fulfillment within the poem 
recognizes continuity as well as opposition between certain damned and saved 
souls in Dante’s afterworlds. This hermeneutics is ultimately truer to the poet’s 
robust vision precisely because it is paradoxical. Many important figures and 
episodes across the textual and theological divisions of the three cantiche could 
be discussed as manifestations of this dialectical hermeneutics: one could 
plausibly argue for both opposition and continuity between Francesca from the 
infernal circle of lust and Cunizza in the sphere of Venus; between the heretic 
Farinata and, based on proud devotion to one’s native city, the troubadour 
Sordello in Purgatory; between the suicide Pier della Vigna and his celestial 
counterpart Romeo, both falsely accused servants of their royal masters; 
between the rhetorically gifted Ulysses and the overly ambitious emperor 
Justinian, who appears in Mercury, and certainly between Ulysses and Adam, 
the prototypical human rebel. It should come as no surprise that one of the most 
significant and illuminating cases to explore in light of Dante’s paradoxical 
hermeneutics of exile is the theme of exile itself.” 

Although Dante raises the issue of his unmerited exile from Florence 
indirectly in the Convivio, this oblique context provocatively joins the medieval 
trailblazers for Dante’s understanding of exile and conversion: Boethius and 


* In Divine Dialectic, | discuss several of these episodes and characters through the 
interpretive lens of this dialectic of paradox, which I develop there primarily in relation to 
medieval incarnational theology. Mazzotta articulates the “both—and” function of Dante’s 
exile: it provides “a necessary perspective from which to speak to the world and from 
which he can challenge its expectations and assumptions” even as this perspective is 
“what further alienates him from the world he has already lost’ (Dante ’s Vision 179). 


Dante’s Poetics of Exile 77 


Augustine.° Listing the two most obvious cases in which it is appropriate to 
speak of oneself, Dante first cites a situation in which great infamy or harm 
could come from not defending oneself. Here Boethius serves as Dante’s model 
for one compelled to speak in the first person to prevent “la perpetuale infamia 
del suo essilio, mostrando quello essere ingiusto, poi che altro escusatore non si 
levava” (1.2.13). The second common reason for speaking in the first person is 
didactic, the use of one’s personal experience as an example for others to follow. 
Augustine’s account, in the Confessions, of his progression toward a virtuous 
life here serves as Dante’s illustration (Conv. 1.2.14). The first-person narrator 
of the Convivio thus affirms that his procedure satisfies the conditions allowing 
both Boethius and Augustine to speak of themselves. He fears that the amorous 
language of his poems might give rise to disrepute if such passion were not 
shown to be an allegorical cover for the true, virtuous meaning of his verses 
(1.2.16-17). 

But the weight that Dante assigns to Boethius and Augustine is equal in 
appearance only. By characterizing Boethius’s fall from favor — _ his 
imprisonment resulting from the false accusations of envious political enemies 
— specifically as exile, Dante creates an affinity between his own experience 
and that of Boethius that goes far beyond a legitimate reason to speak of oneself. 
Dante’s strong identification with Boethius, as Augustine’s presence fades 
away, is reinforced in the very next chapter. There, Dante provides what is 
arguably the most elaborate and emotional representation, outside the 
Commedia, of his banishment from Florence: 


Ahi, piaciuto fosse al dispensatore de |’universo che la cagione de la mia scusa mai non 
fosse stata! ché né altri contra me avria fallato, né io sofferto avria pena ingiustamente, 
pena, dico, d’essilio e di povertate. Poi che fu piacere de li cittadini de la bellissima e 
famosissima figlia di Roma, Fiorenza, di gittarmi fuori del suo dolce seno — nel quale 
nato e nutrito fui in fino al colmo de la vita mia, e nel quale, con buona pace di quella, 
desidero con tutto lo cuore di riposare l’animo stancato e terminare lo tempo che m’é 
dato —, per le parti quasi tutte a le quali questa lingua si stende, peregrino, quasi 
mendicando, sono andato, mostrando contra mia voglia la piaga de la fortuna, che suole 
ingiustamente al piagato molte volte essere imputata. 

(Conv. 1.3.3-4) 


With the injustice of Boethius’s exile from the previous chapter still fresh in the 
reader’s mind, Dante dramatizes his own painful experience “d’essilio e di 
povertate” as both unjust and cruel. A disowned child reduced to a life of 
wandering and begging, the exile suffers the further indignity of appearing even 
more wretched to those who are familiar with his good reputation (1.3.5). 
Dante’s privileging of the exile Boethius over the convert Augustine at this 





° Ovid’s poetry, as Smarr shows, is an important classical influence on Dante’s 
representation of his exile. 


78 Guy Raffa 


key moment in the Convivio anticipates their disproportionate representational 
significance in the Commedia, the Paradiso in particular. While Augustine 
strikingly receives only cursory mention as one of the churchmen — third after 
Francis and Benedict — seated below John the Baptist in the celestial rose (Par. 
32.35), Boethius enjoys more textual attention than all the other wise spirits in 
his group, including Solomon, when they are introduced by Thomas Aquinas in 
the sphere of the Sun (Par. 10.97-138). There are surely multiple reasons for 
Dante’s apparent slighting of Augustine in the Commedia, not least the 
theologian’s hostility toward classical Rome and thus his incompatibility with 
Dante’s admiration for Virgil.’ Another important reason may be the poet’s 
displacement of an oppositional hermeneutics of conversion in favor of a 
dialectical hermeneutics of exile. As in the Convivio, exile is prominent in 
Dante’s portrayal of Boethius, this time in the three tercets celebrating his 
presence in Thomas’ circle of wise spirits: 


Or se tu l’occhio de la mente trani 
di luce in luce dietro a le mie lode, 
gia de l’ottava con sete rimani. 

Per vedere ogne ben dentro vi gode 
’anima santa che ’! mondo fallace 
fa manifesto a chi di lei ben ode. 

Lo corpo ond’ ella fu cacciata giace 
giuso in Cieldauro; ed essa da martiro 
e da essilio venne a questa pace. 

(Par. 10.121-29) 


If “essilio” in the Convivio, both Boethius’s and Dante’s, was limited to its 
political context, here in the Paradiso, which represents the realm of 
humankind’s “true home” for eternity, exile necessarily wears layers of meaning 
in addition to that of physical banishment from one’s native city or civic 
position. In this instance, Boethius’s exile is closely paired with his execution, 
redefined here as his martyrdom (‘da martiro / e da essilio”). He has thus come 
to the peace of eternal blessedness in heaven from the experience of political 
exile and persecution within the larger exilic experience of his entire life-time on 
earth.® The unjust political exile suffered by Boethius and Dante undoubtedly 


” Hawkins shows how Dante “corrects” Augustine’s anti-imperial bias by having Virgil 
articulate the theologian’s ideas in the central cantos of the Purgatorio, thus effecting a 
“harmonization of Augustine and Vergil” (479). 

8 Alan of Lille similarly describes Christ as a “soldier” who “triumphs in heaven” but 
“campaigns on earth an exile” [“quo rege triumphat / In celo miles, in terris militat exul”] 
(5.519-20). Alan further remarks that he “suffered every pain of exile” to “bring back the 
miserable from exile” [“exulis omne / Passus ut exilio miseros subduceret exul”] (5.525- 
26). 


Dante’s Poetics of Exile 79 


inspired them to reflect on this much broader conception of exile at the same 
time that it served as the catalyst for their most inspired and influential works, 
the Consolation of Philosophy and the Commedia. 

The metaphoric dimension of exile, specifically its relation to martyrdom, is 
reinforced by Dante’s doubling of Boethius with Cacciaguida, the poet’s great- 
great-grandfather. Boethius’s trajectory from earthly suffering to heavenly peace 
— “da martiro / e da essilio venne a questa pace” (Par. 10.128-29) — is 
repeated nearly verbatim in Cacciaguida’s depiction of his death and salvation: 
“venni dal martiro a questa pace” (15.148). Dante’s pairing of Boethius and 
Cacciaguida, reinforced by a series of verbal parallels and repetitions,’ serves as 
commentary on his own situation insofar as the poet himself identifies closely 
both with the political intellectual who was unjustly persecuted and with his 
“martyred” warrior ancestor. If Boethius is Dante’s exilic double, Cacciaguida is 
the blood relative — the poet’s “radice” (15.89) — charged with the 
monumental task of glossing his descendant’s future exile as a catalyst for both 
hardship and reward, martyrdom and mission. Only from the accumulation of 
ominous signs in the prophecies pronounced by shades in hell and purgatory is 
Dante prepared for Cacciaguida’s vivid and unsparing characterization of 
impending adversity: 


Tu lascerai ogne cosa diletta 
pit caramente; e questo é quello strale 
che I’arco de lo essilio pria saetta. 
Tu proverai si come sa di sale 
lo pane altrui, e come é duro calle 
lo scendere e ’! salir per l’altrui scale. 
(Par. 17.55-60) 


Consistent with his lament in the Convivio for having to endure the unjust 
punishment “d’essilio e di povertate” (1.3.3), Dante here paints a portrait of 
himself as a pitiful victim. The culprits in this case are Boniface VIII — one 
who plots “la dove Cristo tutto di si merca” (17.50-51) — and the black guelphs 
(assisted by Charles of Valois, sent by Boniface), though Dante and his fellow 
exiles will be blamed for their own misfortune (17.52-53). Even worse, the 
ineptitude and unfaithfulness of Dante’s comrades in exile, “la compagnia 
malvagia e scempia,” will ultimately compel the exiled poet to become a party 
unto himself (17.61-69), an “exile among the exiled” (Paolucci 122). 

However, a positive side to the story of Dante’s exile begins to take shape 


° They are each an “anima santa” (10.125; 17.101); Boethius’s “vi gode” (10.124) is 
matched by Cacciaguida’s “si godeva” (18.1); Boethius reveals the world to be a “mondo 
fallace” (10.125), while Cacciaguida was freed from this same “mondo fallace” (15.146). 
I elsewhere discuss this doubling as a sign of Dante’s union of contemplation and action 
(Divine Dialectic 178-86). 


80 Guy Raffa 


even against this bleak backdrop. Following the infernal dictum that “Qui vive 
la pieta quand’ é ben morta” (/nf. 20.28), Dante can at least find comfort in the 
knowledge that his adversaries’ deeds will not go unpunished even on earth: 
Boniface and his black guelph supporters, notably Corso Donati, will suffer their 
own setbacks in the early years of Dante’s exile (Par. 17.53-54; 97-99), and the 
exiled white guelphs who turned against Dante will experience a string of 
defeats between 1302 and 1306 (17.65-66). In a more charitable vein, 
Cacciaguida confirms for Dante that his poetic voice, when it recounts the 
extraordinary journey of the Commedia that in so many ways is the product of 
the poet’s exile, will itself bring “vital nodrimento” to its readers and listeners 
down through the ages (17.130-33). Through the experience and representation 
of his exile, Dante thus emerges as both victim and victor, one whose unjust 
suffering and hardship will provide the motivation and material not only for self- 
vindication but, most important of all, for realizing a unique ethical and aesthetic 
achievement.'° 

Critical reactions to Dante’s exile understandably tend to underscore the 
hardship it entailed and to downplay its creative and hermeneutic potential. 
Boccaccio, at one extreme, appears almost to blame Dante for his own 
misfortune when he criticizes his illustrious precursor for pursuing “la 
lusinghevole gloria de’ publici ofici” (Trattatello par. 60). Exile is therefore the 
price Dante pays for meddling in politics and not devoting full attention to 
philosophical contemplation. Boccaccio certainly posits no intrinsic connection 
between Dante’s cruel banishment and his subsequent literary success. If 
anything, he considers Dante’s exile an impediment to, rather than the catalyst 
for, his achievement. At the other end of the spectrum are the positions of 
Giosué Carducci and Thomas Carlyle cited as the epigraphs to this essay. Both 
writers — Carlyle in a lecture, Carducci in a poem — give thanks that Dante 
suffered the misfortune of banishment from Florence. Carducci goes so far as to 
praise the public official who sentenced Dante to exile. In 1301 Cante de’ 
Gabrielli came to Florence from Gubbio at the time of the coup d’état by the 
black guelphs, who were supported in their efforts by Charles of Valois’s 
“peacemaking” mission on behalf of Pope Boniface VIII. Elected to the post of 
podesta by the newly installed Florentine priors, Cante, according to the 
chronicler Dino Compagni, “ripard a molti mali e a molte accuse fatte, e molte 
ne consenti” (Cronaca 2.19). Cante also leveled a few charges of his own, 
notably those contained in the two declarations that effectively prevented Dante 
— perhaps still en route from his unsuccessful diplomatic mission to Rome — 
from ever returning to Florence. The first sentence, dated January 27, 1302, 


'© Couching Dante’s victimization in terms of foundation sacrifice, Quinones remarks 
that “the very same qualities that made Dante so visible and thus vulnerable to being 
made the scapegoat, are the very qualities of courageous and bold speech, of brave 
conviction, that made him triumph over his enemies” (129). 





Dante’s Poetics of Exile 81 


charged Dante, as one of several named white guelph leaders, with a host of 
crimes (‘“‘baractarias, lucra illicita, iniquas extorsiones in pecunia vel in rebus”) 
allegedly committed during his priorship in the spring of 1300, and gave him 
three days to defend himself in person and pay an exorbitant fine of five- 
hundred florins (Piattoli 105). The penalty in this document includes banishment 
from Florence for a period of two years. Within two months (March 10, 1302) 
Cante issued a second, definitive sentence that condemned Dante (with fourteen 
others) to an incendiary death should he be caught in Florentine territory (“ingne 
[sic] comburatur sic quod moriatur” Piattoli 109) because he failed to answer the 
initial charges. 

Despite the suffering caused by these unjust sentences, Carlyle 
provocatively insists, “We will not complain of Dante’s miseries: had all gone 
right with him as he wished it, he might have been Prior, Podesta, or whatsoever 
they call it, of Florence, well accepted among neighbours, — and the world had 
wanted one of the most notable words ever spoken or sung” (195). If not for 
Dante’s experience of exile, he continues, “Florence would have had another 
prosperous Lord Mayor; and the ten dumb centuries continued voiceless, and the 
ten other listening centuries (for there will be ten of them and more) had no 
Divina Commedia to hear!” (195). Pitiless as they may sound, these words attest 
to a likely if unpleasant truth: no exile, no Commedia, certainly not as we know 
it in terms of themes, characters, and the allegorical relationship, historically 
grounded, between the world and the afterlife. Carlyle aptly views Dante’s 
political banishment as his essential experience, the occasion for both 
martyrdom and mission: “A nobler destiny was appointed for this Dante; and he, 
struggling like a man led towards death and crucifixion, could not help fulfilling 
it” (195). 

Even more audacious is Carducci’s poem, “A messer Cante Gabrielli da 
Gubbio” (Giambi ed epodi 194-95). These verses, both sarcastic and serious, 
honor the man who exiled Dante: he becomes the chief stimulus (“O primo, o 
solo ispirator’”) for the artistic expression of “gloria e vendetta” that is the 
Commedia. By exiling Dante on trumped-up charges (“Quando ladro il dannaste 
e barattiero”), Cante de’ Gabrielli contributed so much to Italy’s cultural 
patrimony that his likeness, in the form of a marble statue, should rightly stand 
tall in an Italian piazza. 


Molto mi meraviglio, o messer Cante, 
Podesta venerando e cavaliero, 

Non v’abbia Italia ancor piantato intiero 
In marmo di Carrara e dritto stante 


Sur una piazza, ove al bel ceffo austero 

Vostro passeggi il popolo d’avante, 

O primo, o solo ispirator di Dante, 

Quando ladro il dannaste e barattiero [...] (Giambi ed epodi 194) 


82 Guy Raffa 


Carducci declares even more clearly and eloquently in prose his conviction that 
Dante’s banishment from Florence, as the necessary condition for the 
Commedia, deserves not reproach but universal gratitude: “Quanto mai devono 
l’Italia e arte e il mondo a quell’esilio, che d’un priore fiorentino, d’un poeta 
elegiaco, d’un trattatista scolastico, fece l’uomo fatale [...]” (Dello svolgimento 
della letteratura nazionale 77). With the hindsight of posterity, then, the profits 
of Dante’s exile from Florence far exceed the cost of the difficulties he endured. 
By the time he rejected the conditions of return required by the Florentine 
amnesty (1315), the poet himself may have begun to appreciate this possibility. 
Dante may have been forced to adapt to the taste of unfamiliar bread, (“come sa 
di sale / lo pane altrui” Par. 17.58-59), but at least by this point in his exile such 
bread was not lacking: “Quippe nec panis deficiet” (Epistole XII, 9). 

Dante’s poetics of exile, and its accompanying dialectic of hardship and 
achievement, punishment and reward, unfolds in the Commedia not only 
through the protagonist’s prophesied exile but also through representations of 
exile, both literal and metaphoric, attached to other characters in the poem. In 
the broadest sense, the basic narrative premise of the Commedia, the state of 
souls after death, follows biblical and classical ideas of mortal life as a period of 
exile that ends only with the soul’s liberation from its corporeal prison and 
return to its divine maker. Dante uses the story of Exodus, with its pattern of 
liberation from bondage and movement toward the promised land, as the 
archetypal figure for this spiritual homecoming (Singleton); by extension, 
Exodus provides the figural basis for the poet’s transformation of his experience 
of exile into the wayfarer’s homeward journey through the realms of the afterlife 
(Mazzotta, Poet of the Desert 37-38 and passim). Whether or not Dante himself 
wrote the Letter to Cangrande della Scala, the Exodus paradigm (Psalm 114 
[113 in the Vulgate]) used by its author to exemplify the Commedia’s 
theological allegory indeed dramatizes the spiritual liberation of saved souls in 
the poem itself. Newly freed souls appropriately sing this Psalm, beginning “In 
exitu Israel de Aegypto,” as they arrive on the shores of Purgatory (Purg. 2.46- 
48), where they are met by Cato, one whose commitment to liberty was so 
complete that he willingly gave his life for it (Purg. 1.73-75). Spiritually seeking 
this liberty himself (“liberta va cercando” Purg. 1.71), the wayfarer completes 
the arduous journey up the mountain of Purgatory that makes one “puro e 
disposto a salire a le stelle” (Purg. 33.145). 

This idea of earthly life as spiritual exile reappears among the stars 
themselves, where Dante and Beatrice join the blessed in viewing the ascension 
of Christ and Mary to the Empyrean. Inspired by Psalm 137 (136 in the 
Vulgate), in which God’s people weep in captivity “upon the rivers of Babylon” 
as they remember their true home in Sion (1-3), Dante expands the exilic 
dimension of this loss — “lo essilio / di Babillon” (Par. 23.134-35) — to 
encompass the mortal lives of those who “return” home to God in Paradise. 
Dante remarks that the souls of the blessed now enjoy the treasure they earned 


Dante’s Poetics of Exile 83 


with their faithful lives. This “Babylonian exile” marks one of four instances in 
which the word essilio appears in rhyme position in the Commedia. Essilio here 
rhymes with Filio (Christ) and concilio. While the three other instances also 
rhyme essilio with concilio, the remaining rhyme in each case is not Filio but 
Virgilio. By choosing to rhyme exile three times with Virgil and the only other 
time with Christ, Dante poetically reinforces his overall portrayal of the Roman 
writer as a figure with whom he strongly identifies even as he consigns him to 
the first circle of hell for not knowing this Filio.'' Beloved despite his relegation 
to the same “etterno essilio” of damnation (Purg. 21.18) as that of the hypocrite 
Caiaphas and the other infernal shades (/nf. 23.126), Virgil fittingly emerges as 
one of the most poignant examples of Dante’s dialectical hermeneutics of exile. 
For the damned, then, earthly exile continues into the afterlife, where it 
becomes eternal. Nor are the saved souls exempt from a continuation of their 
earthly exile after death. For them, however, such prolonged banishment is 
necessarily provisional. Thus Adam’s lengthy period of exile — “tanto essilio” 
(Par. 26.116) — includes both his long mortal life (930 years) following 
banishment from Eden (after less than seven hours) and his sojourn of 4,302 
years in Limbo before being liberated and brought “home” to heaven by Christ 
(Par. 26.118-23). Statius, representative of the purgatorial spirits, likewise 
understands his time on the purifying terraces of Purgatory as a finite if harsh 
extension of his mortal exile. After over nine hundred years on two terraces, he 
movingly insists that he would delay his release from exile, “uscir di bando,” for 
yet another year to have had the privilege of living at the same time as the 
eternally exiled Virgil (Purg. 21.100-02), his poetic and spiritual inspiration. 
Dante thus envisions a true “homecoming” from exile, both earthly and in the 
afterlife, only before God in the Empyrean heaven. Qualifying the Platonic idea 
that the souls literally return to their stars (they “appear” in the spheres only for 
the wayfarer’s edification: Par. 4.22-39), Dante represents and enacts a return 


'' Based on these four rhyme clusters, Spillenger argues that Dante aims to posit his own 
entrance into the beato concilio in opposition to Virgil’s condemnation to efterno essilio 
(57). For those familiar with Dante’s use of proportional design in the Commedia, as 
demonstrated in studies by Thomas Hart, it may come as no surprise that these four 
clusters of “exile” rhymes are spaced in the poem so as to produce precise ratios. I have 
identified the following two examples, which together include all four rhyme clusters: A) 
the ratio between the distance (number of verses) from the beginning to the end of the 
Inferno and the distance from the beginning to the first essilio rhyme (Inf. 23.126) equals 
the ratio between the distance from the first essilio rhyme to the third essilio rhyme (Par. 
23.134) and the distance from the first essi/io rhyme to the end of the Purgatorio: 4720 / 
3109 = 9666 / 6366 = 1.518; B) the ratio between the distance from the beginning to the 
end of the poem and the distance from the beginning to the fourth exile rhyme (Par. 
26.116) equals the ratio between the distance from the second exile rhyme (Purg. 21.18) 
to the fourth exile rhyme and the distance from the second exile rhyme to the third exile 
rhyme (Par. 23.134): 14233 / 13189 = 5599 / 5185 = 1.079. 


84 Guy Raffa 


from exile as a return to origins. 

These returns, from exile and to origins, are embedded in Dante’s own 
“trial” homecoming, his journey though the realms of the afterlife. After 
encountering various sources and effects of eternal exile in hell, the wayfarer 
participates in the process of purgatorial renewal that culminates in the return to 
primal purity and wholeness in Eden. In this second realm, unique for its 
temporal dimension, the penitents and the wayfarer travel back in time to the 
original, prelapsarian site of humankind. Multiple originary moments occur 
along the way, including Dante’s encounter with his poetic ‘father,’ Guido 
Guinizzelli (Purg. 26.91-99), and his reunion with Beatrice in the earthly 
paradise. The frequency of such moments increases during Dante’s celestial 
“return” voyage to God in the Empyrean. Among the “origins” encountered in 
paradise are the first father (Adam), the first pope (Peter, as the first bishop of 
Rome), the founder of Western monasticism (Benedict), and Dante’s ancestral 
“root” (Cacciaguida). In a nod to the Platonic myth of return, the wayfarer enters 
the Fixed Stars precisely in the constellation of his birth (Gemini). The 
abundance of maternal and infantile images in the final cantos of the poem — 
from an “enwombing” neologism (21.84) and Beatrice’s personal mothering 
(22.1-15; 23.1-15) to Mary’s universal mothering (23.121-26) and a regression 
to nursing (30.82-87) — reinforces this idea of the wayfarer’s journey to his 
creator as a journey back in time. This spiritual homecoming, if only as an 
imagined trial run, must compensate for the physical, earthly return from exile 
that Dante never enjoyed. 

For some, exile is a temporary setback: a trying ordeal, to be sure, but a 
period of displacement, whether imposed by oneself or by others, that is 
contained and may therefore become a point of reference for later adventures in 
the life of one who has returned. For others, as in Dante’s case, no return is 
possible; the term of exile ends only with the end of life itself. Worse still, the 
exile seldom achieves in death, even if only in a coffin, what was denied in life, 
a physical return home. The earth’s surface is assuredly littered with the mortal 
remains of those whose expatriation is for all time. Here Dante’s case is as 
complex and instructive as was his experience of exile, and its representation in 
his poetry, during the final two decades of his life. Following the poet’s illness 
and death during a diplomatic mission to Venice and his burial in Ravenna in 
1321, the Florentines at times showed as much tenacity in bringing the dead poet 
back to his home city as some of their ancestors did in banishing him from 
Florence in the first place. 

Florence periodically laid claim to Dante’s remains from the end of the 
fourteenth century to 1864, the year of their final formal request. His bones were 
removed from their tomb at least twice during this time. In the early sixteenth 
century Pope Leo X, the Florentine Giovanni de’ Medici, granted permission to 
transfer Dante’s remains from Ravenna, then under papal jurisdiction, to 
Florence. But by the time the pope’s emissaries arrived in Ravenna, the 





Dante’s Poetics of Exile 85 


Franciscan custodians of the mausoleum had removed and hidden Dante’s 
remains to prevent the “repatriation” from taking place. Pressure applied on 
behalf of Leo X and the next Medici pope, Clement VII, was unsuccessful in 
revealing the location of Dante’s remains. Once the threat had passed, the poet’s 
bones were placed back in the tomb, where they presumably stayed put for the 
next century and a half. In 1677, fearing that city plans to rebuild the church 
would damage Dante’s tomb, the Franciscans once again took matters into their 
own hands. This time Dante’s remains were placed in a coffin that was then 
moved to a chapel and covered with a brick wall. This additional exile continued 
for nearly two centuries; the bones were rediscovered, scientifically examined, 
and returned to their original location in 1865 during the sexcentenary 
commemoration of the poet’s birth. Ravenna cleverly exploited the atmosphere 
of Italian unification to claim that, with the newly unified Italy supplanting 
warring city-states, Dante’s exile had in fact come to an end (Bemrose 218-20). 

But this was not the end of Dante’s post-mortem exile. The case of the 
poet’s earthly displacement remains open even today. Like Farinata, the exiled 
Ghibelline heretic tormented in hell by Florence’s resolve to punish him and his 
family even after death (/nf. 10.73-84), Dante could legitimately bemoan his 
perpetual banishment from a final resting place. When the poet’s bones were 
removed and hidden in 1677, some dust was evidently left behind in the original 
tomb. This dust was collected and divided into six sacks by the sculptor Enrico 
Pazzi in 1865, when Dante’s bones were returned to the sarcophagus, but only 
two sacks have been accounted for thus far: one was found in 1987 in a 
medallion previously located in the ceiling of the Italian Senate building; the 
other sack was discovered in 1999 in the National Library in Florence 
(Hotinksi). Four sacks of Dante’s ashes are still missing. This unsolved mystery 
may ultimately be viewed as a fitting tribute to the poet for whom exile was 
certainly a devastating experience but also an interpretive art for reading texts 
and the worlds they describe or imagine. As a constructive alternative to settling 
for reductive, opportunistic answers, the more challenging approach of critique, 
revision, and reform promoted by Dante’s poetics of exile is in fact nothing less 
than revolutionary. 


The University of Texas at Austin 


86 Guy Raffa 


Works Cited 


Alan of Lille. Anticlaudianus. Ed. R. Bossuat. Paris: J. Vrin, 1955. 

___. Anticlaudianus, or the Good and Perfect Man. Trans. James J. Sheridan. Toronto: 
Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, 1973. 

Alighieri, Dante. Convivio. Ed. Cesare Vasoli and Domenico De Robertis. Opere 
minori. Tome 1, part 2. Milano: Ricciardi, 1988. 

___. La divina commedia. Ed. Giorgio Petrocchi. Torino: Einaudi, 1975. 

___. Epistole. Ed. Arsenio Frugoni and Giorgio Brugnoli. Opere minori. Tome 2. Milano: 
Ricciardi, 1979. 

Auerbach, Erich. “Figura.” Trans. Ralph Manheim. Scenes from the Drama of European 
Literature: Six Essays. New York: Meridian, 1959. 11-76. 

Augustine. Confessions. Trans. W. Watts. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1979. 

Bemrose, Stephen. A New Life of Dante. Exeter: U of Exeter P, 2000. 

Boccaccio, Giovanni. Trattatello in laude di Dante. 2nd redaction. Ed. Pier Giorgio 
Ricci. Tutte le opere di Giovanni Boccaccio. Ed. Vittore Branca. Vol. 3. Verona: 
Mondadori, 1974. 497-538. 10 vols. 1964-83. 

Carducci, Giosué. Giambi ed epodi. Ed. Enzo Palmieri. Bologna: Zanichelli, 1960. 

___. Dello svolgimento della letteratura nazionale. Discorsi letterari e storici. Bologna: 
Zanichelli, 1957. 1-161. Vol. 7 of Edizione nazionale delle opere di Giosué 
Carducci. 30 vols. 1952-62. 

Carlyle, Thomas. “The Hero as Poet: Dante.” Jtalian Poets and English Critics, 1755- 
1859: A Collection of Critical Essays. Ed. Beatrice Corrigan. Chicago: U of Chicago 
P, 1969. 188-207. 

Compagni, Dino. Cronaca delle cose occorrenti ne’ tempi suoi. Cronisti del Trecento. 
Ed. Roberto Palmarocchi. Milano: Rizzoli, 1935. 23-150. 

Dunning, Stephen N. Dialectical Readings: Three Types of Interpretation. University 
Park: Pennsylvania State UP, 1997. 

Freccero, John. Dante: The Poetics of Conversion. Ed. Rachel Jacoff. Cambridge: 
Harvard UP, 1986. 

Hart, Thomas Elwood. “Geometric Metaphor and Proportional Design in Dante’s 
Commedia.” The Divine Comedy and the Encyclopedia of Arts and Sciences. Ed. 
Giuseppe C. Di Scipio and Aldo Scaglione. Amsterdam: Benjamins, 1988. 95-146. 

Hawkins, Peter S. “Divide and Conquer: Augustine in the Divine Comedy.” PMLA 
106.3 (1991): 471-82. 

Hotinksi, Robert. “Rescued from Purgatory.” U.S. News & World Report. 2 Aug. 1999: 
56. 

Jakobsen, Roman, and Morris Halle. Fundamentals of Language. 2nd rev. ed. The 
Hague: Mouton, 1975. 

Lodge, David. The Modes of Modern Writing: Metaphor, Metonymy, and the Typology of 
Modern Literature. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1977. 

Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert: History and Allegory in the “Divine 
Comedy.” Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 

___. Dante’s Vision and the Circle of Knowledge. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1993. 

Paolucci, Anne. “Exile Among Exiles: Dante’s Party of One.” Mosaic 8.3 (1975): 117- 
25. 








Dante’s Poetics of Exile 87 


Piattoli, Renato, ed. Codice diplomatico dantesco. Florence: Libreria Luigi Gonnelli & 
Figli, 1950. 

Quinones, Ricardo J. Foundation Sacrifice in Dante’s Commedia. University Park: 
Pennsylvania State UP, 1994. 

Raffa, Guy P. Divine Dialectic: Dante’s Incarnational Poetry. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 
2000. 

Said, Edward W. Reflections on Exile and Other Essays. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 2000. 

Singleton, Charles S. “In Exitu Israel de Aegypto.” Annual Report of the Dante Society of 
America 78 (1960): 1-24. 

Smarr, Janet Levarie. “Poets of Love and Exile.” Dante and Ovid: Essays in 
Intertextuality. Ed. Madison U. Sowell. Binghampton: Medieval & Renaissance 
Texts & Studies, 1991. 139-51. 

Spillenger, Paul W. “An Aspect of Vergil’s Role in the Commedia.” Romance Notes 24.1 
(1983): 55-58. 

Starn, Randolph. Contrary Commonwealth: The Theme of Exile in Medieval and 
Renaissance Italy. Berkeley: U of California P, 1982. 


: 4 A 7 
a a 
Veale — Aa “VWrop * | ailiedt Genety 
OO +A 
ee a 
: ee ee ee 
- => 64.1 ete Ww Y? ioplg vw 


_ i ee ee 
OO Sy WT vq. 


_ re 
7 ~ - wh ~ io oe ee eee 
a 8 ae 


co a oy V* pa oe seer ; 
- b& 6 .96iF00 

a 
“es SS 56 60% + wm o=sewe 


a re | 
re 
_ 





Catherine M. Keen 





Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 


“Banditus reputatur rebellis reipublicae” (“Whoever is banished is viewed as a 
rebel of the republic”), Cino da Pistoia pronounced in a Consilium on a point of 
statute law on banishment.' These are the words of Cino the jurist, speaking 
with a confident authority based on his expertise — both as practitioner and as 
scholar — in matters of Roman law and of Italian municipal statute. The 
statement offers a clear-cut, categorical definition of how banishment, the 
medieval Italian Comune’s equivalent to Roman exile, transforms the subject 
into a public enemy.” The Consilium goes on to stress that responsibility for this 
change in status lies emphatically with the banished person: “factus est [...] 
diffidatus ut hostis.” In speaking of exile in his professional capacity, Cino 
appears to be confident about categories and responsibilities. The citizen who 
becomes a banditus is classified as a rebel and enemy to the respublica, and 
rigorously excluded from the social and legal order of his society of origin: in 
the terms of contemporary critical theory, the exiled citizen becomes an “Other,” 
a disempowered and marginalized outsider whom the dominant society ignores, 
abuses or rejects.” 

The law is preoccupied with labeling and definition, in its regulation of 
the relations between private individuals and the wider community surrounding 
them, and by its nature, it speaks on behalf of the collective. Cino’s professional 
activity as a lawyer therefore ranged him habitually on the side of the public and 
the corporate. But besides his juristic activity, Cino was also a prolific poet, 
writing primarily on the theme of love, and hence concerned in verse with the 
uniqueness of individual experience and with the development of a personal 
voice.’ In his poetic activity, Cino frequently uses language and imagery that 
refer to banishment or exclusion, and which place himself, as the speaker saying 
“io” in the poems, in the position of an exile. As his legal writings show, Cino 





' Monti 148. Although the Consilium is not identified with a particular city, Monti 
surmises that it may refer to Perugia: Cino held legal office there for some time, and the 
codex contains a number of judgments by Umbrian lawyers. 

2 On statute law, see Starn 18-23, 61-84; Jones 370-82. 

3 A useful short description of this view of the Other is provided by Shankman under the 
heading ‘alterity 2’ (137); see also Smith, esp. 15-16, 45-48. 

‘ His pre-eminent achievements as a love poet were, famously, hailed by his 
contemporary Dante in De vulgari eloquentia I1.1i.8. 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


90 Catherine Keen 


was well aware that banishment was a precarious and undesirable situation. 
Why, then, should he so often have represented himself in verse not only in a 
position of isolation from surrounding society — this view after all was 
conventional in the medieval love tradition — but also have used concrete 
terminologies of exile and what we would call Otherness to do so? In the course 
of this essay, I wish to pursue this question in relation to a number of Cino’s 
lyrics, asking how the language of exile or estrangement affects his authorial 
self-presentation to his audience. 

An obvious explanation for Cino’s interest in exile could apparently be 
furnished from his biography. His home Comune of Pistoia was dominated 
through much of his lifetime (c.1270-1336/37) by violent factional conflict, with 
banishment an often-used political weapon, and he appears personally to have 
experienced proscription from Pistoia as a young man.° Can these biographical 
data explain why he was attracted to establishing a poetic persona as an exile? Is 
this self-portrait, in short, a simple matter of mimetic accommodation of well- 
known realities into his artistic activity, a reflection of external experience that 
his audience might reasonably expect to encounter? The answer, on many 
counts, has to be, “No.” 

For one thing, Cino continued writing in exilic vein well into old age, 
when he occupied an honored position as a leading citizen of Pistoia, and 
enjoyed wide renown as both a poet and a lawyer. In 1330 or 1331, for instance, 
following a flattering invitation from Robert of Anjou, he visited Naples to offer 
a course of lectures on jurisprudence in the university. Although the visit proved 
unsatisfactory, the circumstances scarcely justify the self-consciously exilic 
opening to his satirical canzone on the experience, “Deh, quando rivedro ’| dolce 


° The debate over the circumstances of Cino’s exile, with the related question of his 
faction membership, depends primarily on the evidence of the ambiguous references to 
Blacks and Whites in his verse. Barbi’s case has been generally accepted as the most 
convincing: he presumes that Cino maintained his family’s (the Sighibuldi or Sinibuldi) 
Black Guelf traditions, and suggests the probable date for his exile, which may have been 
voluntary, to be during Pistoia’s domination by a White regime 1303-06 (see esp. 432- 
34). Others, including recently Graziosi (88-89), argue that Dante could not have felt the 
warm friendship shown to Cino in correspondence and in the De vulgari, precisely during 
the early 1300s, had he been a Black; they suggest that he absented himself from Pistoia 
in the early Trecento as a voluntary exile to avoid the turbulence in the city, violent 
enough to have endangered even White supporters. The issue is further complicated by 
the changes in Cino’s attitude to the Holy Roman Empire between support for Henry VII 
and hostility to Ludwig of Bavaria, and by the history of his acceptance of positions and 
patronage from both pro-Papal and pro-Imperial sources. The scarcity of evidence makes 
any solution tentative, while Cino’s rather promiscuous patronage career adds further 
complication, perhaps suggesting that his convictions were relatively weak; with due 
cautiousness, I lean towards accepting Barbi’s theory for at least the early 1300s. On the 
Pistoian factions, see Herlihy 194-212. 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 91 


paese / di Toscana gentile?”° With its suggestion that Cino feels uncertain of his 
ability to return to his native province, the incipit certainly does not reflect the 
realities of the situation; in fact, he returned to Tuscany rapidly, and is recorded 
in Perugia by 1332. Rather, it seems to allude to a well-known literary 
antecedent, Guido Cavalcanti’s so-called exile ballata, with the incipit “Perch’1’ 
no spero di tornar giammai, / ballatetta, in Toscana” — a lyric that itself, despite 
its apparent allusion to exile, has been shown to predate Cavalcanti’s brief 
banishment to Sarzana.’ As Calenda has argued, Cavalcanti’s poem deals rather 
with a sense of psychological “esclusione” than with political “esilio”: but, as he 
notes, the lyric’s traditional labeling as “ballata dell’esilio” does in fact provide 
a useful indication of its emotional realities, as an articulation of Cavalcanti’s 
wider tendency to pursue “una coerentissima poetica dell’esclusione” (47). 

As I have argued elsewhere (“Images of Exile”), Cino likewise seems to 
be attracted to a poetics of esclusione, using the figure of exile to maintain a 
consistent representation of his emotional biography that often bears little 
relation to external political realities. As we have already seen with the Naples 
satire, several lyrics where Cino strikes a pose of alienation can be shown from 
external or even internal evidence to bear no reference to civic exile, in the strict 
sense of personal banishment from Pistoia.’ On close investigation, the majority 
of his “exile” lyrics prove to deal with estrangement from love rather than from 
Pistoia, drawing on the topos of amor de lonh common in early Occitan verse 
and recurrent among the Sicilians and their successors in Italy.'° Besides this, 
Cino appears to be influenced by a well-established Tuscan tradition of political 
verse which borrowed heavily from the conventions of amorous discourse to 
dramatize the writers’ problematic relationships with the female personification 
of a citta or its gente.'' Often the two traditions melded together, loss of patria 
also comprising the loss of the human beloved who resided there. Cino 
frequently emphasizes that his exilic nostalgia in absences from Pistoia has an 
amorous as well as patriotic referent. 

However, if erotic concerns are often presented more prominently than 


® Marti CLXV, 1-2. References to Cino’s corpus and to the work of other stilnovisti are 
taken from this edition throughout. 

’ Marti XXXV, 1-2. See Calenda 46-47. 

8 Picone concurs that the label ‘ballata dell’esilio’ is ‘da intendere appunto nella sua 
accezione non storica ma esistenziale’ (733). 

° E.g. Gentili donne e donzelle amorose (LXXXIX), which describes the lady’s rather 
than the lover’s absence, and is set in Bologna (9) not Pistoia; also the poems on the 
death of Selvaggia, Oimé, lasso, quelle trezze bionde (CXXIII) and Jo fu’ 'n su laltoe ’n 
sul beato monte (CXXIV), which external tradition suggests took place when Cino was in 
Pistoia, but the lady’s family in exile. For a longer analysis of the two latter, see Keen 33- 
36. 

'0 See the numerous examples under the heading ‘la lontananza’ in Catenazzi 219-23. 

'l See Picone, esp. 695-96, 707-09, 725-26. 


92 Catherine Keen 


political ones, Cino’s deployment of the theme of amor de lonh also reveals a 
fascination with binary oppositions that does in turn seem influenced by political 
and social realities. His formation as a Comune citizen, and more specifically as 
a lawyer, leads him to divide the world according to likeness or Otherness so 
that, as this essay will show, he turns instinctively to concrete civic examples to 
illustrate his own senses of alienation even when he is describing exclusion from 
love rather than from the city. 

In the first section of the essay, I will offer brief discussion of how 
difference or Otherness was perceived in the world of the Italian Comuni, before 
going on in two further sections to investigate the representation of alterity in 
some of Cino’s exilic verse. In section two, with the first set of Cinian examples, 
I will discuss a number of lyrics in which the poet explores conventional aspects 
of the Otherness of exile: faction rivalries, loss of citizenship, exclusion from 
access to a desired place and/or a desired woman. In these poems, the lyric “io” 
expresses anxiety about his situation in exile, but nonetheless generally retains a 
clear sense of personal identity in civic and in amorous matters and resists the 
depiction of himself as an Other that might seem obligatory given the legal 
realities articulated, for instance, in the Consilium cited above. In the final part 
of the article, I will turn to a group of works in which Cino’s sense of identity is 
represented more ambiguously. In these poems, clear-cut oppositions are 
undermined, and identity takes on multiple, rather than simply binary, forms. To 
heal exile’s wound to his civic persona, Cino envisages either assimilating 
himself to the Others of the world beyond home, or, counter-intuitively, using a 
disguise of Otherness in order to return there. Either solution forces him away 
from the straightforwardness of the Comuni’s binary models of identity (civis or 
banditus, like or Other), into a world of experience where the familiar aspect of 
both public and private personae is undermined, and the self starts to transform 
into the Other. I will suggest, in conclusion, that Cino’s legal training may 
influence his desire to taxonomize these experiences and to range himself within 
a larger collective, even when that collective is unfamiliar and undesirable by 
the normal standards of his society. 


1. Urbanity and Otherness 

The challenging impact of this blurring of sharp distinctions becomes clearer if 
we start by investigating how the medieval Italian citizen conceived of space 
and belonging. In reading Cino’s verse, one becomes aware of a sense of sharp 
binary distinction that pervades his conception of space. He is obsessed with the 
topographical coordinates of place — the word “loco” appears repeatedly in his 
verse — and with the physical separations between one place and another 
imposed by manmade or natural barriers. His outlook is clearly shaped by the 
medieval Comune’s physical, socio-political and cultural environment, and 
articulates what Jacques Le Goff has called “l’immaginario urbano” typical of 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 93 


medieval Italy.'* Physically, the medieval cities that Cino knew were sharply 
demarcated from the surrounding countryside by defensive barriers of walls and 
gates, beyond which lay terrain and people rendered suspect by their visible 
distance from the city’s urban sophistication.'? This binary opposition between 
civilization and wilderness was not, to be sure, unique to the Italian Comuni: 
feudal Europe also drew sharp distinctions between the aristocratic elegance of 
the court, and the unpredictable, often dangerous, world beyond, where the 
questing hero of romance was put to the test.'* The sharpness of the visible 
division of the civilized and the non-civilized worlds was heightened by their 
spatial contiguity, with untamed nature pressing up close to the city’s or castle’s 
protective walls, and to the relatively limited stretches of cultivated contado 
beyond. Part of the danger of medieval Italian exile was that it cast the citizen 
out from the manmade safety of an urban environment or of the contado, forcing 
him into or across the hills and mountains that criss-crossed the central Italian 
landscape and which constituted clear-cut borderlines between one pocket of 
urban order and the next.’* A sample of Cino’s exile lyrics, for instance, finds 
him expressing repugnance for the “aspri monti” and “duri sassi” of an exilic 
landscape, referring to the “monti” or “mont’Appennino” that separate him from 
his beloved; or lamenting a separation between lover and beloved who in the 
natural course of affairs ought both to remain inside the shelter of “li usci e’ 
muri / de la contrata uw’ sono ’nnamorati.”'® 

The medieval city-dweller’s distrust of the world outside the physical 
space of civilization extended also to its inhabitants: not only to the 
unpredictable thugs, bandits and lunatics who lived in the genuine wilderness, 
but also to the villani who cultivated the land in the contado."’ In medieval 
comments on the peasantry, their association with manual labor and their limited 
mental horizons make them almost an alien race, perceived as distinctly Other 


!2 See the definition provided in Le Goff, “Immaginario” 7-8. 

13 See Harrison 13-14, Honess 10-13, Le Goff, “Immaginario” 12, 24-27. 

'4 See Harrison 12, Ladner, esp. 246-48, Le Goff, “Wilderness", esp. pp. 52-58. 

'S See Starn 3-6. 

'6 In order, these citations are taken from the following texts, all with a strong exilic 
component. ‘Aspri monti,” ‘duri sassi’: Oimé, lasso, quelle trezze bionde (CXXIII) 36-37, 
with reference to Selvaggia’s death in the mountainous Sambuca area. ‘Monti’:Ci6 ch ‘io 
veggio di qua m’é mortal duolo (XLIII) 5. ‘Mont’Appennino’: Signor, e’ non passé mai 
peregrino (CXXI) 5. ‘Li usci...’: Deh, non mi domandar perché sospiri (LXXXVIII) 13- 
14, where again it is the lady, not the lover, who ‘fuor de la terra [...] € gita’ (7). The 
grammatical subject of ‘sono ’nnamorati’ is the lover’s eyes. 

'7 There is insufficient space here to investigate the hermit tradition, where withdrawal to 
the wilderness becomes a mark of sanctity and a literal realization of Christian self- 
abnegating peregrinatio, a tradition discussed by Le Goff, “Wilderness,” and Ladner in 
some detail. In any case, hermits always remained a minority among the imagined 
inhabitants of the medieval wilderness, and Cino never refers to them. 


94 Catherine Keen 


by the inhabitant of town or castle.'* If the two spaces could be categorized 
contrastingly as “here” and “there” or “inside” and “outside,” so also the two 
populations could be labeled “us” and “them.” Dante, for instance, articulates a 
sharp awareness of this dichotomy in the De vulgari eloquentia, when he 
categorizes the languages of rural communities in terms that shadow the 
etymological connotations of barbarianism, as uncouth idioms that make no 
contribution to the civilized and civilizing volgare illustre of the best lyric 
poetry: “[...] montaninas [...] et rusticanas loquelas [...] que semper mediastinis 
civibus accentus enormitate dissonare videntur [...]” (I. xi. 6). 

More disturbingly, though, similar cultural dichotomies could also be 
encountered even inside the protective walls of civilization: fellow-inhabitants 
could be identified as Others by their social rank, professional occupation, 
membership of a political faction, sexual mores, religious beliefs, and much 
more.”” Literary works indicate such Others by their rejection of prevailing 
cultural codes, whether in amorous or in military-political matters, a rejection 
that presents a threat to civilization which is highly dangerous precisely because 
it comes from within the apparent safety and consensus of the immediate 
community.”' Medieval love lyrics show a constant preoccupation with those 
members of the court or the city whose alienation from true amorous values is 
emphasized by calling them villani, metaphorically classing them among a rustic 
population of Others. Cino several times uses this or analogous terms to refer to 
those hostile to love or to the lover — in one self-pitying sonnet even accusing 
personified Love of having become its own opposite, a “lusingator” or “villano” 
— or to complain that his rivals’ mistreatment reduces him undeservedly to the 
level of serf or peasant.” 

In the world of the Tuscan Comuni, moreover, very obvious division 
within the “insider” community was endemic for much of Cino’s lifetime. The 
society that he knew was threatened by internal polarizations far graver than 
those between the gentili and villani of courtly convention, in the form of the 
political factions. The names Guelf and Ghibelline indicated all too well- 
established party rivalries, but as if their long-running hostility were not bad 


'§ See Jones 158-59, 245-46, Le Goff “Immaginario” 25. 

'? See Borst’s comments, esp. 3-9, stressing that originally ‘the word barbaros simply 
imitated the sound of an incomprehensible word’ (4); similarly Monga 34, Smith 20. 
Maltby’s Lexicon provides the following telling citation from Cassiodorus s.v. barbarus: 
‘barbarus a barba et rure dictus est, quod numquam in urbe vixerit, sed semper ut fera in 
agris habitasse noscatur.’ 

°° See Honess 10, Moore. 

*! For instance, in politics/war, the treacherous Ganelon in the Charlemagne cycles, Kay 
and Mordred in the Arthurian world; in lyric verse on love, the stock figures of the ge/os 
or the /auzengier. 

2 The citations come from Si m’hai di forza e di valor distrutto (XXXVI) 5-6; see also 
e.g. II, XLII. 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 95 


enough, during Cino’s youth the Guelf faction itself divided again into two sub- 
parties with names that stressed their members’ polarization, as they split into 
Neri and Bianchi. By popular tradition, Pistoia could boast the dubious honor of 
being the city where those names originated, suggesting that this was a 
community where rivalry between factions was particularly sharply felt.” 
Faction fighting represented an attempt by each party to remove its polar 
opposite from the city by death or by expulsion, and to impose political and 
psychological unity by making the entire community uniformly monochrome 
rather than parti-coloured. 

Exiles banished beyond the city confines were not only labeled as moral 
opposites, metaphorical villani, by their victorious opponents, but also found 
themselves changed from citizens to vil/ani in spatial terms. A comment from 
Dante, in his post-exile Convivio, stresses how gravely spatial dislocation of a 
group of citizens beyond the city walls threatened their civic identity, when he 
comments that 


chiamare solemo la cittade quelli che la tengono, e non coloro che la combattono, 
avvegna che l’'uno e I’altro sia cittadino. 
(II. vi. 8, emphasis mine) 


Dante notes that those who inhabit the city space are the only ones accorded the 
language of citizenship, perceived as forming “la cittade.’ Thanks to the 
frequency of faction fighting and mass expulsions, the Comuni in fact developed 
specialized political terminology to distinguish “quelli cha la tengono” as 
intrinseci, their exiled opponents as extrinseci or in the vernacular fuorusciti, in 
another set of binary oppositions based on spatial separation: nonetheless, as 
Dante emphasizes, both groups share a common, undifferentiated origin as 
cittadini.* Exiles must thus struggle to reconcile their own understanding of 
themselves as citizens, with their enemies’ stigmatization of them as extrinseci, 
sharply differentiated outsiders who have been declared unacceptable by their 
own community of origin, and who now see the city walls as hostile rather than 
protective. A long string of binary opposites — black and white, inside and 
outside, citizen and villein, cortese and villano — define the absolute conceptual 
differences between the exile’s past and present identity. 


2. Cino as a Political Other 

Cino’s exile poetry very frequently makes reference to the suffering that he 
experiences in consequence of his exclusion from the insider community of 
home, and of the risks associated with his unprotected, outsider position. In 


23 The exact circumstances behind the split are unclear; the traditional accounts date the 
initiatory dispute to around 1286: see Herlihy 201-02. 
4 On municipal exile terminology, see Graziosi 80, Starn 2, 17-23, 41. 


96 Catherine Keen 


many cases, though, Cino’s exile poetry defiantly challenges the assumption that 
exile implies Otherness, and insists instead on his own civic/amorous probity, by 
the careful manipulation of his imagery and language (including the technical 
language of the law). There are close similarities between some of his 
pronouncements on exclusion from Pistoia and Dante’s comments on his 
exclusion from Florence; the fact that several of Cino’s exilic compositions are 
addressed to Dante creates a genuine dialogue of exclusion between the two, and 
a feeling of fellowship between exiles seems apparent at times in both Cino’s 
and Dante’s linguistic choices in several surviving exchanges. 

For instance, in a correspondence sonnet that Cino dedicated to the 
Florentine, Dante, quando per caso s’abbandona (CXXVIII), its closing lines 
apparently refer to his friend’s experience of exclusion: “te che sei stato dentro 
ed extra” (13). This political allusion is kept to the end of the lyric, while the 
main body of the sonnet presents a request for judgment in a troubling 
questione, a situation reminiscent of the procedure by which legal Consilia were 
procured in Cino’s professional sphere.” In this case, it is his interlocutor and 
not himself who is cast as the expert who will pass judgment on a questione 
d'amore rather than di diritto: the problem whether it is legitimate, following the 
loss of one love-object, to transfer amorous emotions to another. The question is 
an urgent one, since Cino states that he appears to have done just that (9-11), 
and he requests Dante to reply quickly, “prima che m’uccida il nero e il bianco” 
(12). Fortunately, Dante gave a very full reply, and his half of the 
correspondence helps shed light on how Cino’s sonnet should be interpreted. 

The closing lines of Cino’s sonnet apparently refer to Dante’s position as 
a municipal fuoruscito (“extra,”13), and to his own embroilment in Pistoian 
faction politics (“nero” and “bianco,’12). This interpretation is however 
disputed. As Mario Marti notes, critics have in the past suggested that Cino’s 
apparently political language may in fact carry purely amorous references to the 
black iris and the white of the lady’s eyes, and to Dante’s “cittadinanza ideale (0 
alla sudditanza) nel regno d’Amore.””° Elisabetta Graziosi, however, in a 


*> Similarly, in his correspondence poem to Cecco d’Ascoli, Cecco, i’ ti prego per virti 
di quella (CXLVII), the quatrains present a request for advice based on his interlocutor’s 
expertise (astrological rather than amorous), but exilic political material appears in the 
tercets. 

© Marti 735n4. The theory that ‘il nero e il bianco’ are the colours of the lady’s eyes 
could be supported by comparison with Jo guardo per li prati ogni fior bianco (CXX). 
Here Cino employs the word bianco four times: twice to refer to the colour of flowers (1, 
10); once in a reference to ‘de’ begli occhi il dolce bianco’ (11); and once, more 
ambiguously, when he speaks of the ‘bianca parte / che fa col verdebrun la bella taglia, / 
la qual vestio Amore’ (4-6). Critics have variously taken this latter reference to indicate 
the ‘parte bianca’ of Pistoian politics, or the whites and the iris of the eyes. Barbi, 
although he prefers to read ‘parte bianca’ as an optical reference, suggests that taken in 
conjunction with the three other references to the colour white, Cino additionally wishes 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 97 


detailed recent analysis of the correspondence, notes that “‘é difficile non leggere 
in chiave politica” the closing lines of Cino’s sonnet (82). A_ political 
interpretation is especially appealing in the light of the other half of the 
correspondence, where Dante’s double reply — which confirms the possibility 
of changing one object of desire for another, both in the sonnet Jo sono stato con 
Amore insieme (Contini 51a), and in the accompanying Latin letter (Epistle III) 
— is addressed to the “exulanti Pistoriensi” by the “Florentinus exul inmeritus,” 
in direct reference to his own and to Cino’s shared situation of exile.”’ A 
political interpretation of Cino’s original lyric should not be taken too far: for 
instance, the death that he fears from “il nero e il bianco” clearly does not imply 
political assassination. But the use of two paired terms normally associated with 
civic law and urban faction seems emphatic enough in the context of the 
correspondence to make a political and exilic reading plausible. The political 
content, however, plays a secondary role to the amorous: both correspondents 
are concerned primarily with their unchallenged expertise as insiders on matters 
of love, rather than on their spatial position “dentro” or “extra” a political 
community. 

The themes of exile and death, and the issue of amorous volatility, 
likewise appear in a second correspondence sonnet, Poi ch’i’ fui, Dante, dal mio 
natal sito (CXXX). Here Cino opens with an evocation of exilic suffering, 
employing precise legal terms in his references to an “essilio” that has made him 
a “pellegrino”: 


Poi ch’i’ fui, Dante, dal mio natal sito 
fatto per greve essilio peliegrino, 
e lontanato dal piacer pit fino 
che mai formasse il Piacer infinito, 
io son piangendo per lo mondo gito 
sdegnato del morir come meschino. 
(1-6) 


After this politically charged opening, however, the concerns of Cino the 
citizen-lawyer give way to those of Cino the love-poet. Cino stresses that he 
feels an umbilical connection to his “natal sito,” but, in fact, it is the loss of the 
lady who resides there rather than any civic feeling that makes him weep and 
long for death. By the end of the poem political issues have been left to one side, 
and even his amorous dilemma seems at least partially resolved, as he decides 
more light-heartedly that compensation for the loss of the one incomparable lady 





to indicate that his lady is from a White family: 428n1. To admit a double frame of 
reference is plausible, since in other cases too Cino frequently stresses the literal veracity 
of symbolic elements in his verse (e.g. Selvaggia’s literal harshness). 

71 Graziosi highlights the legalistic construction and language of Dante’s letter, esp. 77- 
79. 


98 Catherine Keen 


will be found when “in molte donne sparte mi diletti” (14). 

In Dante, quando per caso, Cino employed the technical terminology 
“dentro ed extra” borrowed from the language of civic statute law 
(intrinsecus/extrinsecus), but in this sonnet he avoids the language used by the 
municipal factions. As we saw at the beginning of this essay, the city-states 
spoke of municipal exiles as banditi, rebelles or hostes. Here, Cino instead 
deliberately turns to the Roman codices to dignify his own situation (and 
implicitly, that of his destinatee likewise) as conforming to the norms of 
classical exilium as a patrician self-removal from accusation, a process that 
transforms him into the peregrinus who, despite non-citizen status, yet occupied 
a recognizable, and relatively dignified, position within the Roman social 
order.”* The inhabitants of the Comuni were alive to the nuances of such 
politico-legal terminology, and Cino’s decision to assimilate his condition to 
that of the classical exu/ implicitly elevates this from a matter of local disgrace 
to a more aristocratic plane. Similarly, Dante also preferred to name himself as 
“exul inmeritus” in his Latin letters, and to speak in the vernacular of an 
“essilio” that had made him a “peregrino.””” 

In both poets, this linguistic choice avoids some of the cruder 
connotations of Otherness associated with municipal terminology: although the 
Roman terms also imply estrangement, they place it within a more dignified and 
culturally resonant context. On the one hand, they may evoke the classical Stoic 
doctrine that to an intellectual no community is Other but rather, as Seneca 
stated, “nihil [...] quod intra mundum est, alienum homini est” (Ad Helviam 
VIII. 5). On the other hand, Biblical tradition emphasizes the notion that all 
earthly existence is Other as long as we are, in St Paul’s words, “peregrini et 
hospites [...] supra terram” (Ad Hebraeos 11. 13). The Stoic view that nowhere 
is Other can be reconciled with the Christian dictum that everywhere is, since 
both posit indifference to local patriotisms as the distinguishing mark of the 
virtuous individual who can live happily as an exu/ or peregrinus: and Dante and 


7° On Roman exile, see Edwards 17-18, Motto and Clark 110-12; on Cino’s and Dante’s 
choices of terminology, Graziosi 80-82. See also Cino’s poem CXXI, which begins 
‘Signor, e’ non passO mai peregrino, / o ver d’altra manera viandante’ (1-2): peregrino 
here manages to suggest the double sense of the classical peregrinus and the Christian 
pilgrim, both of whom could be understood as viandanti, travellers who have voluntarily 
left their homeland for alien territory, but whose topographical dislocation does not 
necessarily represent a threat to the social order (Keen 25-27). On the Christian meanings 
applied to the term peregrinus, see Edwards 18-20, Monga 10-11. 

*° Even outside the Commedia, there are plenty of examples. He signs himself ‘exul 
inmeritus’ not only in Ep. III, but also Eps. V, VI and VII. In DVE I. vi. 3 he states that 
‘exilium patiamur iniuste.’ Tre donne intorno al cor mi son venute (Contini 47) refers to 
‘lessilio che m’é dato’ (76). In Convivio I. iii. 4 he calls himself a ‘peregrino.’ I leave 
aside references to the Commedia, where the eschatological context can create 
complexity. 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 99 


Cino are both well aware of this distinction when they avoid the over- 
determined and partisan tag of banditus to designate their position as civic 
outsiders. 

In the sonnets that he exchanges with Dante, then, Cino treats the conflict 
in his own city under fairly conventional headings. The presentation of the 
political references in Dante, quando per caso suggests that Cino takes the role 
of a non-partisan observer, equally saddened by the behavior of Blacks and of 
Whites, whose collective conduct brings him to the brink of death. Poi ch’i’ fui 
engages more explicitly with the question of his altered identity in exile, but 
carefully chooses to present himself with the authoritative and orderly language 
of the classical world, rather than classing himself linguistically among the local 
undesirables of contemporary criminal statute. This sense of detachment or 
estrangement from the affairs of his own polity also reappears in a number of 
longer ballate and canzoni that make reference to the theme of exile. In these 
compositions, however, the issue of exilic Otherness appears more prominently, 
and is shown to be less easily susceptible of solution. Another change is that 
Cino’s self-presentation in these lyrics is no longer directly conditioned by 
personae imposed upon him by his illustrious fellow-exile. In one sense this 
self-presentation diminishes his position, as the use of exile imagery and 
terminology seemed in connection with Dante to bolster civic status through 
assimilation of Cino to the “exul inmeritus.” On the other hand, his position in 
their exchanges on love was weak: Dante classed him categorically as volatile, 
probably implying pejorative comparison with his own constancy to Beatrice, as 
in a further sonnet exchange where, writing in the name of Moroello Malaspina, 
he accuses Cino of possessing a “volgibile cor.”*° Once the constraining 
framework of correspondence with Dante is removed, Cino can move towards 
presenting himself in a far more Dantean mould, as a model of amorous 
constancy rather than the erotic lightweight of sonnets CXX VIII and CXXX. 

Si m’ha conquiso la selvaggia gente (CIII) is the most strictly political of 
the longer exile lyrics: it applies amorous language to a very obviously political 
object, the personification of the Pistoian citizen body or “selvaggia gente” of 
the opening line.*! The ballata expresses the lament of a citizen-lover for the 
lack of happiness of his feminine beloved (the gente), diagnosing his sorrow in 
factional terms as springing from White-Black party conflict: 





3° Degno fa voi trovare ogni tesoro (Contini 51a) 3. 

3! A ‘selvaggia gente’ also appears in Cid ch’i’ veggio di qua m’é mortal duolo (XLII), 
but here Cino constructs a more normal exilic scenario of Otherness where the homeland 
remains civilized and desirable, but the presence of ‘selvaggia gente’ (2) outside the city 
renders separation more painful, through the exile’s forced association with these ignoble 
‘outsiders.’ The sonnet focuses mainly on the disruption of a love relationship by 
absence, and also speaks of the conventional Other of love lyric (see above), who 
possesses a ‘cor villano / d’Amor nemico’ (13-14, emphases mine). 


100 Catherine Keen 


Non mi f6ra pesanza 
lo viver tanto, se gaia ed allegra 
vedesse questa gente d’un cor piano; 
ma ell’é bianca e negra [...] 
(15-18) 


These lines suggest, once again, that Cino would under certain circumstances 
(“se gaia ed allegra / vedesse questa gente”) be prepared to accept the role of an 
onlooker. What truly perturbs him is the Othering that the city has undergone. 
The Pistoian citizenry is divided against itself, “bianca e negra,” which is 
disturbing enough for a commentator attempting to retain his own sense of 
citizenly integrity. Worse, it has radically denatured itself to become “selvaggia” 
— the opposite of urban or aristocratic.*? The epithet appears twice in the 
opening five lines (1, 5), giving an emphatic force to this suggestion; later the 
list of anti-urban qualities that characterize the self-destroying polity is 
amplified by describing it as “crudel di se stessa e dispietata” (27), and 
“disperata” (29). But if the city has become Other, Cino has remained constant 
in his love, and can even urge his separation from the city as a mark of his 
loyalty to the original values which the altered city has come to reject. The 
closing lines express the fear — or rather, the desire — that death will provide 
an escape from amorous suffering caused by a separation from the love object. 
This love object has indeed rendered itself so unworthy of devotion by its self- 
destructive metamorphosis that the poet at last substitutes for the “selvaggia 
gente” the personification of Death, who promises in contrast to be a “piacente” 
focus for his affections: 


Altro gia che tu, Morte, al me’ parvente, 
non credo che mi giovi. 
Adunque ora ti muovi: 
deh, vieni a me, che mi se’ si piacente. 
(35-38) 


Two other longer lyrics adduce Cino’s enforced separation from Pistoia 
as a source of suffering, in both of these cases because his departure disrupts a 
human love affair. La dolce vista e ’l bel guardo soave (CXI) makes direct 
reference to political faction-fighting, when Cino states of “lo gran contrario 
ch’é dal bianco al negro” (27) that “diviso / m’ha dal gioioso riso / e d’ogni stato 


* The adjective suggests some connection between the city and the Pistoian lady 
Selvaggia, herself notoriously dispietata, strengthening the suggestion of a quasi-erotic 
relationship between the writer and the city that shares the same paradoxical attractions 
of the lady towards whom he so frequently professes a despairing, masochistic attraction 
(Keen 28-29, 31-32). 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 101 


allegro” (24-26). Exile keeps the lovers physically distant from one another and 
there is no such happy solution envisaged as in Poi ch’i’ fui. Rather, Cino 
stresses that his source of happiness is unique, and that comparison exacerbates 
rather than consoles his suffering: whenever “ver’ bella donna levo li occhi 
alquanto” (29), her difference from the beloved makes him weep uncontrollably, 
“membrando di mia donna, a cui son tanto / lontan di veder lei” (32-33). As in 
the ballata discussed above (CIII), faction conflict is the absolute enemy of 
happiness, though here the happiness comes, primarily at least, from private 
rather than civic emotions. Similar too is the closing plea for death: but in this 
case, death offers not a curative oblivion of the beloved’s misconduct, but a 
means of actively recuperating “gioia” (49), by releasing Cino’s spirit “che ne 
vada [...] a Pistoia” (50), and so restoring him from outsider estrangement to 
citizenship and to amorous consolation. 

Lo gran disio, che mi stringe cotanto (CXVIII), a canzone addressed to 
the lady Selvaggia rather than a “selvaggia” Pistoia, is more consistently 
pessimistic. Here too the lover is obsessed with the physical distance that 
divides him from Selvaggia and prevents his “occhi lontani” (4) from gazing at 
her directly. Only in the life-threatening disjunction of body and soul — as in 
the congedo to CXI — can he seek the visual satisfaction essential to his 
emotional survival: 


vien d’ogni tempo e riede 
lo spirito mio, donna, ove voi state; 
e questo é quel ch’accende pit ’! disio 
che m’uccidra, tardando il reddir mio. 
(11-14) 


Although the poem stresses his “gran disio [...] / di riveder la vostra gran 
bieltate” (1-2) by returning from his amorous exile, the motivation here is 
ambiguous, since we learn that the significantly named lady Selvaggia has only 
ever offered Cino “malvoler” (51) rather than the sweetness invoked in La dolce 
vista. Cino explains that the lady’s name symbolically indicates her hostility not 
merely to reciprocation of his love, but even to pity: Selvaggia means ““‘strana / 
d’ogni pieta,’ di cui siete lontana” (41-42). The lady herself thus comes to 
symbolize hostility and Otherness; clearly, Cino has been excluded from the 
consolations of love or of pity long before his exclusion from the city where his 
beloved resides. Now that he is in exile, his undeserved isolation is absolute, and 
the personifications of L ove and Death form his only companions: but whereas 
Love has to be distanced in order to act as Cino’s ambassador to the lady (6-8, 
15-16), Death remains close even when all others treat him as an outcast (“mi 
disdegna,” 22). 

However, if the lady occupies the emotional foreground of the canzone, 


102 Catherine Keen 


political obstacles are of some significance in reinforcing the lovers’ separation. 
The congedo personifies the canzone, sending it (like the author’s spirit) to 
Pistoia, where an intermediary is invited to offer protection to its amorous 
message. This intermediary, “quel di Pietramala” (58), is normally identified as 
the White podesta of 1303, Tommaso Tarlati, but in the congedo his political 
role as leader of a Comune apparently hostile to Cino is of little significance: in 
ethical matters, he is an ally, sharing Cino’s understanding of love. The Others 
whom Cino fears in the congedo are those with a “cor malvagio” (62), villani or 
outsiders to the amorous codes that Cino and his destinatee share. 
(Paradoxically, Selvaggia’s hostility to her devoted lover and to pieta, makes her 
something of a courtly outsider: is Tarlati to exclude her, too, from the 
canzone’s audience?) Like the other “selvaggia” lyric, CIII, this canzone 
presents a compelling exploration of the ambiguities of the exile’s desire for a 
beloved who seems denatured from the normal attributes of what could be 
lovable. The ideas about alienation and exclusion in this text are arguably more 
complex than those of the works analyzed above: but it certainly shares their 
interest in constructing identity, and in confronting the exile’s problematic 
attempt to define the binary extremes of insider and outsider status as far as 
possible in his own favor. 

In the poems discussed thus far, then, Cino certainly expresses a sense of 
pain regarding his exile situation, but on political matters he seems in the main 
to have a fairly clear sense of his own position in relation to those who reject or 
exclude him. In correspondence with Dante, he employs precise political and 
legal terminology to dignify and define his position in “essilio,” and to reflect on 
the binary conflicts of Blacks and Whites or intrinseci and extrinseci, but 
displays detachment from the harsher realities of Pistoian factionalism. La dolce 
vista is more concerned with erotic than political alterity, but once again implies 
that Cino’s amorous exile does not make him an Other in any pejorative sense. 
The employment of the epithet “selvaggia” in two of the lyrics introduces the 
most serious uncertainty about Cino’s emotions or identity. Both Lo gran disio 
and Si m’ha conquiso find him exploring the paradoxes of his desire for a love 
object who is “selvaggia” and yet for whom he feels the ardor of conventional 
courtly desire, normally an ultra-civilized experience. In both cases the normal 
opposition between inside and outside is reversed, when the city proves to be a 
locus of selvatichezza while the lover who is excluded by the city walls still 
expresses his allegiance to the refined signoria of Love. In the third full stanza 
of Si m’ha conquiso, Cino represents himself as composing “piatosi lai” (31) 
about the denatured “gente” (25) that he sends to “mio signore” (32), who must 
be identified as Love personified. Lo gran disio refers repeatedly to the close 
relationship between Cino and “Amore” (6, 15, 27, 32), specifying that his soul 
“sempre andra seguendo Amore” (27), and finding common ground with even 
the leader of a hostile political regime in their common alliance against the 
uncourtly Otherness of the vil/ani. 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 103 


3. Embracing Otherness: Exile, Disguise, and Return 

The poems explored thus far suggest that Cino’s outlook on exile follows a 
binary division that tends to be constructed in his own favor to affirm the 
constancy of his inner identity whatever the vicissitudes of spatial dislocation. In 
this third section of my essay we will encounter a number of lyrics in which 
Cino probes further the ambiguities of his identity in exile, and questions more 
openly whether he himself may not be, or become, Other in consequence of his 
exclusion from the city and/or from love. Self-Othering in these poems appears 
variously as an exacerbation to political and/or amorous suffering, or as a means 
of reconciliation with the lost object of desire. Almost always this rupture with 
previous notions of selfhood is figured by depicting the poet’s internal faculties 
as personifications fragmented from one another and eluding his control. La 
dolce vista and Lo gran disio both used the image of the “spirito” leaving the 
lover’s body and seeking to pursue the love relationship almost independently, 
by crossing the corporeal barriers that separate the lovers. However, despite 
causing physical self-fragmentation, the vagabond “spirito” in those lyrics at 
least shared the same desires as the lover: elsewhere, as we shall see, Cino and 
his internal faculties become estranged from one another, in processes that 
mimic the way that alterity is imposed on an individual’s civic and social 
standing in the course of factual exile. 

The sonnet Ogn’allegro penser ch’alberga meco (LXIX) dramatizes this 
sense of self-alienation very clearly, and draws on the exilic topos of exclusion 
from amorous success or “allegrezza” (6). Although strictly speaking this sonnet 
makes no explicit reference to banishment or to physical separation between 
lover and beloved, the imagery applied to Cino’s psychological condition places 
a central emphasis on the ideas of exclusion and distance, and on the changes 
imposed on an insider when he passes into the unfamiliar outside world. The 
locus of journeying or exile in the opening quatrain is Cino’s own person: 


Ogn’ allegro penser ch’alberga meco 
si come pelegrin giunge e va via, 
e se ragiona de la vita mia, 
intendol si con’ fa ’I tedesco °| greco. 
(1-4) 


So alien is happiness to Cino that he legalistically classes even the thought of it 
as a transient “peregrino,” speaking an incomprehensible non-Romance 
language.*? Indeed, he is unable to conceive what it is: “l’allegrezza non so che 
si sia” (6). Both the intellectual precision of the lawyer and the linguistic and 


33 Cino uses the peregrino image in similar fashion in LXI: ‘L’anima mia, che si va 
peregrina / in quelle parti che furon gia sui’ (1-2). In this case, though, the reference 
remains generic, and the soul is rejected by the lady rather than estranged from the poet. 


104 Catherine Keen 


emotional sensitivities of the love-poet are frozen by an experience that eludes 
his attempts at comprehension or description — and so Cino is cut off from the 
possibility of expression that might affirm his identity, unable to understand his 
own thoughts. 

Cino chooses to represent this experience of self-alienation through 
reference to the incomprehensibility of foreign languages, placing himself and 
“Amor” (5) on one side of a linguistic and conceptual divide, with happiness and 
the lady on the other.** Some of the elements in Cino’s scenario recall aspects of 
Dante’s Babel myth of linguistic exile in the De vulgari eloquentia; and given 
that friendship between the two poets flourished during the early years of 
Dante’s exile to which the treatise is normally dated, it is possible that Cino’s 
imagery might relate directly to the arguments that we know from the De 
vulgari eloquentia.*? Dante’s account of the population of Europe by Babel 
refugees stresses that these original settlers brought with them an “ydioma 
tripharium” (DVE I. viii. 2), whose speakers settled separately in the northern, 
the south-eastern, and the southern parts of Europe (DVE, I. viii. 3-5). Their 
descendants include respectively speakers of German (Cino’s “tedesco”), of 
Greek (Cino’s “Greco”), and of the Romance languages whose common origins 
are revealed by the fact that “conven[iunt] in vocabulis multis,” especially the 
word “amor” (DVE I. ix. 2-3) — and in the sonnet, Cino declares himself to be 
the close ally of “Amor” (5). The estrangement between Cino the lover and 
Italian vernacular poet, and the Greek- or German-speaking peregrini of his 
inner self, thus follows a fault line that can perhaps be traced back to Babel and 
to the dispersal of the human race into separate and mutually estranged peoples 
in a paradigmatic multiple exile. 

Even if we discount the possible Dantean element, however, Cino’s 
choice of examples still significantly emphasizes their Otherness. Greeks and 
Germans represent cultural traditions that differ distinctively from those of 
southern Europe or Italy in broader terms. Although forming part of 
Christendom, and hence in one sense comprehensible “insiders” to an Italian 
Christian world view, the Greeks and the Germans represent the least familiar 
elements in this universe. The former stand for a largely alien form of 


** Following Marti, I take the ‘lei’ (7) of the second quatrain to be the lady, since the 
‘altra via’ (7) that Cino attempts for his approach seems defined by its ‘dolor’ (8), its 
alterity to happiness. 

°° The De vulgari is normally dated between 1303-05. Cino’s sonnet unfortunately offers 
no indications as to the date of its composition, leaving my hypothesis unprovable; but 
since Cino’s lengthy poetic career is normally assumed to have begun not much earlier 
than 1290, and continued at least sporadically until the 1330s, there is no reason to 
assume that this sonnet could not have been composed after the beginning of his 
friendship with Dante and in awareness of the linguistic ideas that are put forward in De 
vulgari. 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 105 


Christianity, and belong to a tradition of political, social and cultural 
development that had taken a different path from that of more westerly Europe 
centuries before Cino’s age.*° The Germans, probably in many ways more 
familiar to a fourteenth-century Italian, had nonetheless also been long regarded 
as alien by their more southerly neighbors, aware of the ancient distinction 
between the civilized peoples of the Mediterranean and the barbarians of the 
north.*’ Even though the Roman imperial title that Cino (and Dante for that 
matter) saw very much as the guarantee of Italian and European unity and order 
was accepted in the Middle Ages as having been legitimately borne by Greek 
and German representatives at different historical moments, these remained 
largely alien cultures, whose unfamiliarity extended into many areas beyond the 
linguistic. Cino’s choice of imagery thus strongly emphasizes the extent of his 
inner perturbation, in which his own faculties take on traits deeply foreign to his 
entire linguistic and cultural background. He is reduced to a bewildered 
bystander, unable to communicate with these alien transients: unable, that is, to 
achieve satisfactory rational control over, or even comprehension of, his own 
emotional experience. Poetic certainties alone remain to him, since his alliance 
with Amore means that he remains attached to the sanctities of the lyric 
tradition: but even in this sphere, Cino shows that he is aware of /acunae in his 
culture or understanding, as he states that “I’allegrezza non so che si sia” (6). At 
the same time as offering him association and identity, his devotion to Love 
exposes him to peril, since his master insists that he maintain a pursuit of the 
beloved “per altra via” (7), in journeys towards the beloved that he anticipates 
will conclude with the ultimate self-destruction of death (13-14). Although Cino 
insists on his constancy and integrity in love, this amorous commitment 
simultaneously undermines his sense of self, and splits his own faculties into 
opposing familiar and alien fragments. 

If Ogn’allegro penser is populated with cultural and linguistic Others 
identified by their geographical origins, Cino’s corpus also includes sonnets 
which refer to the most obvious Others of medieval Christendom, the religiously 
alien Jews and Muslims. The two examples represent different degrees of 
Otherness, Jews being far more familiar figures to a contemporary Italian 
Christian than Muslims. In the Italian cities, as in many other parts of Christian 





36 The Otherness of the Greek church from the viewpoint of Latin Christendom in Cino’s 
age is perhaps most famously exemplified by Aquinas’s Contra errores Graecorum. It is 
noteworthy that Greek belief troubled Thomas sufficiently to merit additional refutation 
in the tract De rationibus fidei contra Saracenos, Graecos et Armenos, albeit only as a 
minor element in arguments aimed most directly against the more wide-ranging errors of 
the Muslim Saracens, Others par excellence from a medieval Christian viewpoint (see 
below). 

37 Tacitus offered the classic formulation of the divide between Romans and 
barbarians/Germans in his Germania. See also Borst, esp. 4-8, Monga 33-35. 


106 Catherine Keen 


Europe, there were well-established Jewish communities, and despite decrees 
that their alterity from the Christian community should be made visible by 
distinctions in dress, segregation measures appear not to have been strictly 
enforced during the fourteenth century.** Muslims by contrast were literal as 
well as metaphorical outsiders, inhabiting spaces outside — indeed, 
symbolically defining — the borders of Christendom. And whereas Judaism was 
Christianity’s ancestor faith, Islam was commonly understood to be a heretical 
bastardization of Christianity. Both faiths, however, were definitively rejected as 
erroneous, and so Cino is making a very clear statement about the alterity of 
exile when he plays with the idea that, in banishment, he may assume the 
identity of a Jew or a Muslim. 

The term “giudeo” in medieval vernacular Italian is frequently employed 
as a Catch-all pejorative, its true religious connotations all but erased in 
consequence of the unthinking anti-semitism of the Christian majority.°’ Cino 
uses the term twice: and while in one case, where he names his enemies 
“giudei,” the term seems to follow a fairly conventional strategy of Othering the 
opponents of the lyric “io,” in the exile sonnet where he applies the name 
“siudeo” to himself the connotations of Otherness are more strongly and 
disturbingly marked. In the first case, Cino’s sonnet is addressed to an audience 
that is called “Jewish” because of its unwillingness to believe the lyric persona’s 
experience: O voi che siete ver’ me si giudei (CI). The identifying trait of this 
audience is its suspicious nature — “non credete il meo dir senza prova” (2) — 
and since this is displayed in their refusal to believe his amorous assertions, we 
may take it that they are villani as well as giudei, insofar as they are unwilling to 
believe him, and so doubly Other. The accusation of skepticism is based on one 
of the stock antisemitic stereotypes about the Jews’ lack of trust, commonly 
associated with secular, especially financial, situations, although obviously and 
more seriously also in religious matters with a lack of belief in the Christian 
mystery of the Resurrection and the refusal to abandon the rigidities of the Old 
Law. In Cino’s sonnet, the lover, like a Christian martyr, can only convince the 
audience of his devotion to a true cause by exposing himself to the mutilation 
that will provide them with visible evidence, as when “si rinfresca e si rinova / 


38 Toaff, 173, discusses the 1215 Fourth Lateran Council’s decrees on the use of badges 
to identify infidels (Jews and also Muslims); also the issue of Jewish neighborhoods prior 
to the establishment of formal ghettos, 187-89. 

3° Examples of such use in lyric verse can be found in the Sicilians (Cielo d’Alcamo, 
Stefano Protonotaro), in Guittone, and several times in Cecco Angiolieri. Its use by the 
Sicilians provides a useful counterweight to more extreme assertions about the avant la 
lettre multiculturalism of Frederick II’s kingdom. Moore and Toaff provide a useful 
survey of medieval attitudes to Judaism and of antisemitic stereotyping; similarly 
Chazan, though his study deals predominantly with the Ashkenazi Jews of northern 
Europe. 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 107 


quella feruta” (7-8) inflicted on him by the sight of “madonna” (3). In forcing 
the poet to mount a form of trial against himself, the incredulous giudeo public 
displays an inhumanly sadistic streak that stresses its alien qualities — but Cino, 
as not only the victim but also the lawyer who furnishes the painful proof 
demanded, emphatically confirms his own identity both as jurist and as lover. 

In Cino’s other use of the “giudeo” figure, however, it is he himself who 
takes on the identity of the religious alien, in a poem which also emphasizes the 
political estrangement of exile, Con gravosi sospir’ traendo guai (XLVIII). This 
poem is addressed not to the wider public but to his “donna gentil” (2) alone. 
Cino opens with an exilic lament over his enforced exclusion from her presence; 
in the second quatrain, however, his return from physical absence serves 
unexpectedly to reinforce his suffering and alienation, as the woman changes 
from “gentil” to “fera”: 


Con gravosi sospir’ traendo guai, 
donna gentil, de la vostra rivera, 
contro lo mio volere, m’alungai, 
e ’| dimorar peggio che morte m’era; 
ma per la speme del tornar campai, 
e ritornai veder voi, donna fera. 
Cosi non foss’io ritornato mai! 
(1-7) 


The woman’s harshness suggests that she is probably Selvaggia, whom Cino 
frequently depicts as a fera.”° As in the lyrics reviewed earlier, he presents us 
with a paradoxical picture of his courtly yearning for a figure who is alienated 
from amorous sympathy; and he underlines the ambiguity of the situation in his 
closing lines, where he stresses that the lady is “umile e piana” (13) to all but 
himself. In this case, then, the lady is not, or not entirely, an outsider to civilized 
courtliness (as she was in CXVIII); rather, it is Cino who occupies the position 
of the alien, physically estranged from her in her gentile incarnation in the first 
quatrain, and emotionally from her fera persona in the second. In the latter part 
of the sonnet, this self-depiction as the exile within the community, a moral if 
not topographical outsider, is made concrete by the Jewish reference: “Or 
dolente tapin, son io giudeo / che nulla val per me mercede umana?” (10-11). 
Christian reliance on “mercede umana” is denied to him as strictly, and 
automatically, as to an archetypal unbeliever, the giudeo whom both Cino and 
his audience instinctively understand to be excluded from certain kinds of basic 
human rights and sympathies. The unquestioned assumption that Jews are so 
profoundly Other that ordinary human decencies no longer apply tellingly 
underlines Cino’s point that more than physical distance has brought about 


40 Eg. LIL, LIII, which both use the term in conjunction with the epithet ‘selvaggia’. 


108 Catherine Keen 


alienation between lover and beloved, and left Cino quite as much an outsider on 
his return to “la vostra rivera” (2) as he was in his exclusion from it. While the 
question form — “‘son io giudeo?” — suggests resistance to such labeling, it also 
introduces an element of uncertainty, implying that the situation has indeed 
damaged his sense of identity. 

The final poem of exilic Otherness that I shall consider here brings 
together in highly emphatic form all of the elements of alienation — political, 
amorous, and religious — that we have reviewed thus far. The sonnet Lasso, 
pensando a la distrutta valle (CXIX) makes it clear from the opening lines that 
it is concerned with political factionalism in Pistoia, which has brought chaos to 
Cino’s “natio suole” (2) — and indeed, not only the city, but the whole “valle” 
of the contado have been engulfed in the destruction. Grief over this disaster 
makes Cino weep, but his greatest suffering, as we have by now come to expect, 
is ascribed an amorous as much as a political cause. Although thoughts of civic 
disorder bring tears “dal cor fin agli occhi” (4), it is love that brings about self- 
fragmentation, to the point that “pit meco l’alma dimorar non vole, / si la 
speranza del tornar mi falle” (7-8). Cino is outside the city — but “ivi” (6), 
inside, are “le nove talle / [...] de le piante di Vergiole” (5-6), i.e. Selvaggia, a 
young shoot on the Vergiolesi family tree. Once again, we are reminded of the 
existential alienation that appears to subsist between Cino and his beloved: she 
is always elsewhere, physically, emotionally, and (as this sonnet makes clear) 
politically, leaving her at one and Cino at the other pole of the Black-White 
division between occupying and exiled factions. Whichever part of Selvaggia’s 
name Cino mentions, its symbolic connotations in political as in courtly matters 
guarantee that a hostile distance will be maintained between them. 

The close of the sonnet shows how well Cino understands this separation, 
but also reveals the tension that it creates between his identities as virtuous 
citizen and as devoted lover. The closing three lines find him contemplating the 
problematic issue of how he may from exile bolster his “speranza del tornar” 


(8): 


Oh, credere’ per lor [i.e. /e piante di Vergiole} nel Macometto! 
Dunque, parte crudel, perché mi fai 
pena sentir del mal ch’io non commetto? 

(12-14) 


There is a practical realism in his recognition that political hostility has little to 
do with the true legality of right and wrong — “pena” is exacted regardless of 
culpability, and faction enemies incur punishment pour cause, so that as in his 
exchanges with Dante, references to political exclusion need not imply any 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 109 


actual guilt.*’ The epithet “crudel” applied to the hostile faction has an alienating 
effect, reminiscent of Si m’ha conquiso, and shows that the city is becoming 
uncivilized and Other. This time, however, Cino’s amorous impulses override 
his repugnance, and he desires to return even to this denatured city in order to 
regain access to the beloved. He is prepared to make himself Other too in the 
process, and if the city has become cruel and strange, then Cino is prepared to 
accommodate himself to the change. He will disguise himself in a manner that 
will avoid persecution by the radically altered polity and its ruling party, and 
commit himself to their alien mode of life, a drastic alteration that is figured as 
tantamount to conversion to Islam. 

The fear and hatred frequently expressed towards Islam in medieval 
Christendom is what gives Cino’s hyperbole its force: he claims to be so 
instinctively motivated by the courtly codes of love that he is prepared to 
become the ultimate outsider, an infidel and apostate, in order to achieve access 
to his beloved.*? Although the sonnet seems constructed broadly according to 
the conventions of amor de lonh, these closing lines in fact stand that tradition 
on its head. The normal protestations of constancy are maintained seamlessly 
through the first 11 lines, only to be undermined by the absolute metamorphosis 
imagined in the final tercet — constancy in love apparently entails mutability of 
religious and political identity. Even the most famous text of distant love, Jaufré 
Rudel’s Lanquand li jorn son lonc en mai, despite its extravagant protestations, 
does not go so far. There, the poet is prepared perhaps to accept capture by the 
Saracens, but not adoption of their faith, when he wishes “que lai el renc dels 
Sarrazis / fos eu, per lieis, chaitius clamatz!” (13-14: the reference may of 
course simply indicate his “imprisonment” by love). Jaufré’s corpus has often 
been associated with crusade, as in the highly romantic Vida narrative 
culminating in his death en route to crusade at Tripoli. This crusading context 
sets the Occitan poet, and his paradigmatic medieval text of distant love, at the 
opposite extreme to the apostasy that Cino apparently contemplates.”° 


‘! As Starn’s analysis of the legal procedures surrounding Dante’s trial makes plain — 
and presumably the same holds true of Cino’s Pistoia — they were permeated by faction 
bias: the judges represented “the good state of the city of Florence and of the Guelph 
party” (66, emphasis Starn’s), and a guilty verdict of a Black court on a White (or vice 
versa) was virtually inevitable (71-72). 

“2 Cardini’s analysis of the stereotyping of Islam by the medieval West, with extensive 
reference to representations in epic and romance, offers a telling survey of the headings 
of Muslim Otherness: paganism and devil-worship; bodily deformation or monstrosity; 
lechery and inclinations to sexual perversion; sorcery (78-85, 105-10). 

8 The Vida stresses that Jaufré ‘se croset’ before embarking on his ill-fated journey, but 
indicates that his motivation was primarily amorous — ‘per voluntat de leis [i.e. the 
Countess of Tripoli] vezer’ — rather than religious. Vida and canso are quoted from the 
texts edited by Lejeune in Hamlin, Ricketts and Hathaway, although the notorious 
instability of the canso text offers variations in stanza order between editions. 


110 Catherine Keen 


The chain of contradictions in Cino’s sonnet is endlessly complex, and 
expresses very clearly the dilemmas and dissatisfactions of political and 
amorous exile. Outside the city, he is still an insider to political righteousness as 
well as to love, whereas inside the city he would become an adherent to partisan 
cruelty and injustice. Outside the city, he is physically estranged from his 
beloved, but even should he return, she is a Selvaggia and a Vergiolesi who 
embodies political and amorous hostility. Outside the city, he is a Christian 
insider, but inside the city would become a Muslim infidel outsider. By closing 
the sonnet on the question that he addresses to the “parte crudel,” Cino leaves 
these tensions and ambiguities unresolved — and this in itself reveals how 
problematic and disturbing they are. The terms that he uses are clear and precise, 
showing that he has a full awareness of the city’s alien qualities when occupied 
by the unjust, cruel and destructive forces of his enemies. But if the language is 
crisply accusatory, the question has a supplicatory element, while the 
conditional form crederei applied to his contemplated apostasy suggests a 
certain hesitation over the gravity of such a sacrifice, even in the cause of love. 

In this sonnet, and in the three preceding lyrics, Cino uses reference to 
outsiders from the Italian/Christian community to express his frustrations in 
love. In pursuit of his perpetually thwarted desires, Cino himself becomes 
partially or wholly an outsider whose distance from the normal community is 
expressed in his self-depiction as a foreigner or an infidel who can scarcely be 
assimilated by the normal community — or only on condition that the 
community in turn become abnormal and Other. My earlier work on Cino 
showed me that his involvement with the theme of exclusion allowed him 
perpetually to re-plot the co-ordinates of physical distance on a politico-amorous 
map, shifting his figural topographies through many positions (Keen, esp. 23- 
24). Not only does he represent himself outside Pistoia, in civic as well as 
amorous exile, but he also reverses this image to depict his lady in exile outside 
Pistoia, and extends the exilic topos to speak of exclusions or separations in 
relation to other cities such as Naples or Bologna, displaying an exilic obsession 
with distance and loss. In the lyrics investigated here, especially the final set of 
examples, the lover contemplates situations of still more profound psychological 
alienation and difference, suggesting that he shares a Cavalcantian “poetica 
dell’esclusione,” to revert to Calenda’s terminology (47). But although there are 
evident similarities with Cavalcanti’s exilic outlook, Cino never commits 
himself as totally as Cavalcanti, for he prefers Otherness to self-dissolution. 
However beset by psychological turmoil, Cino is always able to taxonomize his 
condition, selecting a label that offers him a precise identity, even if a 
profoundly alien one. Traces of the professional confidence with which he 
pronounced his Consilium on municipal banditi seem to remain in his 
determination to classify himself among particular political, cultural or religious 
groups, even when these alternative identities are unfamiliar or dangerous. In the 
end, Cino is reluctant to represent himself in the isolation of a Cavalcantian 


Cino da Pistoia and the Otherness of Exile 111 


position, and seeks to retain the shelter of a larger collective — even if his 
companions should be as insubstantial as the personifications of Love and 
Death, or as undesirable as the foreigners or infidels of the last set of poems. 
Even though his psychological attachment to binary pairings means that he may 
have to represent his exilic transitions as an adoption of Otherness, he still 
prefers to exist as a nameable outsider than to probe the ambiguities of exile too 
far, and so risk Cavalcantian self-annihilation. 


University of Leeds 


Works cited 


Primary Sources 

Biblia sacra: iuxta vulgatam versionem. Ed. B. Fischer et al. Stuttgart: Wiirttembergische 
Bibelanstalt, 1969. 

Dante Alighieri. “Convivio.” Opere minori 1.2. Ed. C. Vasoli and D. De Robertis. 
Milano: Ricciardi, 1988. 

soneeen-= . “De vulgari eloquentia.” Ed. Pier Vincenzo Mengaldo. Opere minori 2. Milano: 
Ricciardi, 1979. 

noeeenee- . “Epistole.” Ed. Arsenio Frugoni and Giorgio Brugnoli. Opere minori 2. Milano: 
Ricciardi, 1979. 

no------- _ Rime. Ed. Gianfranco Contini. Torino: Einaudi, 1946 (2" edn.). 

Marti, Mario, ed. Poeti del Dolce stil nuovo. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1969. 

Jaufré Rudel. “Textes.” Ed. Frank R. Hamlin, Peter T. Ricketts and John Hathaway. 
Introduction a 1’Etude de |’Ancien Provencal: Textes d'Etude. Geneva: Droz, 1985 
(2" ed.). 91-98. 

Seneca. “Ad Helviam matrem. De consolatione.” Seneca: Moral Essays 2. Loeb Classical 
Library. Trans. John W. Basore. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard UP, 1932. 


Secondary Sources 

Barbi, Michele. “Cino fu di parte ‘bianca’?” Problemi di critica dantesca 2. Idem. 
Firenze: Sansoni, 1941. 421-34. 

Borst, Arno. “Barbarians: The History of a European Catchword.” Medieval Worlds: 
Barbarians, Heretics and Artists in the Middle Ages. Trans. Eric Hansen. Chicago: 
U of Chicago P, 1992. 3-13. 

Calenda, Corrado. “‘Esilio’ ed ‘esclusione’ tra biografismo e mentalita collettiva: 
Brunetto Latini, Guittone d’Arezzo, Guido Cavalcanti.” L ’Exil et l’exclusion dans la 
culture italienne: Actes du Colloque franco-italien. Ed. G. Ulysse. Aix-en-Provence: 
Publications de 1’ Université de Provence, 1991. 41-47. 

Cardini, Franco. Europe and Islam. Trans. Caroline Beamish. Oxford: Blackwell, 1999. 

Catenazzi, Flavio. L'influsso dei provenzali sui temi e immagini della poesia siculo- 
toscana. Brescia: Morcelliana, 1977. 

Chazan, Robert. Medieval Stereotypes and Modern Antisemitism. Berkeley: U of 
California P, 1997. 


112 Catherine Keen 


Edwards, Robert. “Exile, Self and Society.” Exile in Literature. Ed. Maria-Inés Largo- 
Pope. Lewisburg: Bucknell UP, 1988. 15-31. 

Graziosi, Elisabetta. “Dante a Cino: sul cuore di un giurista.” Letture classensi 26 (1997): 
55-91. 

Harrison, Dick. Medieval Space: The Extent of Microspatial Knowledge in Western 
Europe during the Middle Ages. Lund: Lund UP, 1996. 

Herlihy, David. Medieval and Renaissance Pistoia. The Social History of an Italian 
Town, 1200-1430. New Haven: Yale UP, 1967. 

Honess, Claire. “City, Garden, Wilderness: Insiders and Outsiders in Dante’s 
Commedia.” New Readings | (1995): 5-40. 

Jones, Philip. The Italian City-State: From Commune to Signoria. Oxford: Clarendon, 
1997. 

Keen, Catherine M. “Images of Exile: Distance and Memory in the Poetry of Cino da 
Pistoia.” /talian Studies 55 (2000): 21-36. 

Ladner, Gerhart B. “Homo Viator: Mediaeval Ideas on Alienation and Order.” Speculum 
42 (1967): 233-59. 

Le Goff, Jacques. “The Wilderness in the Medieval West.” The Medieval Imagination. 
Trans. A. Goldhammer. Chicago: Chicago UP, 1988. 

. “L’immaginario urbano nell’Italia medievale (secoli V-XV).” Storia d'Italia: 
Annali 5: Il paesaggio. Ed. Cesare De Seta. Torino: Einaudi, 1982. 

Maltby, Robert. A Lexicon of Ancient Latin Etymologies. Leeds: Francis Cairns, 1991. 

Monga, Luigi. “Travel and Travel Writing. An Historical Overview of Hodoeporics.” 
Annali d'Italianistica 14 (1996): 6-64. 

Monti, G. M. Cino da Pistoia giurista. Citta di Castello: Il Solco, 1924. 

Moore, R. I. The Formation of a Persecuting Society: Power and Deviance in Western 
Europe, 950-1250. Oxford: Blackwell, 1987. 

Motto, Anna Lydia, and John R. Clark. “The Development of the Classical Tradition of 
Exile to Seneca.” Mosaic 8 (1975): 109-15. 

Picone, Michelangelo. “Le citta toscane.” Lo spazio letterario del Medioevo 2: Il 
medioevo volgare. La produzione del testo 1.2. Ed. P. Boitani, M. Mancini, and A. 
Varvaro. Roma: Salerno, 2001. 695-734. 

Shankman, Steve. “Ethics, Transcendence and the Other: Milione of Marco Polo and 
Calvino’s Le citta invisibili.” Annali d’Italianistica 19 (2001): 137-52. 

Smith, Jonathan Z. “What a Difference a Difference Makes.” “To See Ourselves as 
Others See Us.” Christians, Jews, “Others” in Late Antiquity. Ed. Jacob Neusner 
and Ernest S. Frerichs. Chico, CA: Scholars Press, 1985. 1-48. 

Starn, Randolph. Contrary Commonwealth: The Theme of Exile in Medieval and 
Renaissance Italy. Berkeley: U of California P, 1982. 

Toaff, Ariel. Love, Work and Death. Jewish Life in Medieval Umbria. Trans. Judith 
Landry. Portland, OR: The Littman Library of Jewish Civilization, 1998. 








Fabian Alfie 





Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Cecco Angiolieri, 
Pietro de’ Faitinelli, and Pieraccio Tedaldi' 


For several decades, scholarship has recognized the thematic similarities among 
the various poeti giocosi. In the introductions to their respective anthologies, 
Mario Marti and Maurizio Vitale enumerate some of the motifs shared by those 
poets, such as the complaints against fortune and poverty, the insult of others, 
misogynist statements, sensual loves, and political assertions.’ At the same time, 
Marti and Vitale note the impact of earlier and highly influential jocose poets, 
such as Cecco Angiolieri, on subsequent writers of that style. For example, in 
his explanatory footnotes, Marti points out the similarities of several of Cecco 
Nuccoli’s verses to those by Angiolieri.? Moreover, Vitale finds reminiscences 
of Angiolieri’s “Senno non vale a cui fortuna é conta” in Giuntino Lanfredi’s 
sonnet “Vento a levante e di meridiana” (Rimatori comico-realistici 537). One 
area not studied in depth by scholars, however, is the topic of exile. Several 
poets write about their own cases of banishment. Cecco Angiolieri, Pietro de’ 
Faitinelli and Pieraccio Tedaldi all complain about their current situations and 
envision their happiness, should they ever be allowed to return to their native 
cities. Beyond the particular personal, biographical circumstances that may have 
inspired these sonnets, stylistic elements suggest a chain of direct influence 
among the poets in question. Intertextualities among the three writers suggest 
awareness of the poetic tradition of Tuscany at the time. They may express 
personal sentiments in their poetry but they are also self-conscious participants 
in a literary movement. 

While other poets such as Rustico Filippi and Folgore da San Gimignano 


'T would like to acknowledge the receipt of a Small Grant from the University of Arizona 
Foundation and from the Office of the Vice President for Research at the University of 
Arizona in 1998 that made it possible for me to study on site the Siena H X 47 
manuscript. I would like to thank the staff of the Biblioteca Comunale degli Intronati of 
Siena for its assistance. 

? Vitale (Rimatori comico-realistici 18-26); Marti (I poeti giocosi 12-19). See also Vitale 
(Lingua dei poeti realistico-giocosi 14-23). 

3 For instance, Marti notes the similarity between verses 10 and 11 of Nuccoli’s “El mi 
rincresce si lo star di fuore,” which read “el ciamprolino e ’] dado/ e la taverna,” with 
Angiolieri’s statement “la donna, la taverna, e ’! dado” (“Tre cose solamente mi so’ in 
grado” v. 2). He also notes the resemblance of verse 6 of Nuccoli’s “Ogni pensier, ch’i’ 
ho ’n te, se dispera,” “Or va, che tu sie ucciso!,” to that of v. 14 in Angiolieri’s “Babb’e 
Becchin, amor e mia madre” (Marti, / poeti giocosi 695; 705). 


Annali d'Italianistica 20 (2002) 


114 Fabian Alfie 


dedicate several sonnets each to political matters,’ the Sienese poet Cecco 
Angiolieri (ca. 1260-1312) almost never brings up contemporary politics in his 
verse. Yet Angiolieri alludes to some sort of estrangement from Siena in the 
following lyric: 


Se Die m’aiuti, a le sante guagnele, 
s’i’ veggio °1 di sia ’n Siena ribandito, 
dato mi foss’entro l’occhio col dito, 

a soffrire mi parra latt’e méle. 

E parro un colombo senza féle, 
tanto staré di bon core gecchito, 
pero ch’i’ abbo tanto mal patito 
che pieta n’avrebb’ ogni crudele. 

E tutto questo mal mi parrebb’oro 
sed i’ avesse pur tanta speranza 
quant’han color che stanno ’n Purgatoro. 

Ma elli é tanta la mie sciaguranza 
ch’ ivi farabb’a quell’ otta dimoro 
che babb’ed i’ saremo in accordanza.° 

(66-67) 


The exact cause of Angiolieri’s exile, whether for political or economic reasons, 
is not currently known. Perhaps he imitates the goliardic motif of the clerici 
vagantes in this sonnet (Waddell, 177-191); the twelfth-century Latin poets 
frequently used their positions as impoverished outsiders to castigate vice and 
the corruption of social and political institutions.’ Angiolieri’s appropriation of 
goliardic topoi has been well documented by scholarship (Marti, “Cecco 
Angiolieri” 85-94). While the possibility exists that Angiolieri had in mind the 
goliardic literary movement when he wrote this sonnet, he also reiterates the 
idea of banishment in other poems. In his sonnet, “Dante Alighier, s’i’ so’ buon 
begolardo,” he seems to contrast Dante’s meanderings to his own current 
condition: “s’io so’ fatto romano, e tu lombardo” (v. 8). Cecco’s assertion of 
Dante being a “Lombard” probably refers to the residence of the great poet in 
Verona at the court of Can Grande della Scala (1303-04). Thus, it appears that 
Angiolieri found himself in Rome during the first years of the fourteenth 


4 See, for instance, Rustico’s poems “A voi, che ve ne andaste per paura” and “Fastel, 
messer, fastidio de la cazza,” and Folgore’s “Guelfi, per fare scudo de le reni,” “Cosi 
faceste voi 0 guerra o pace,” and “Pit lichisati siete ch’ermellini.” 

* Cecco Angiolieri is cited from Lanza’s edition of Le rime. Pietro de’ Faitinelli and 
Pieraccio Tedaldi are cited from Maurizio Vitale’s Rimatori comico-realistici. 

° See, for instance, Hugh Primas’s poem “Dives eram et delictus,” about which Charles 
Witke states: “There is symbolic value to the poet who stands outside the church starving 
and who cries for the expulsion of injustice and weeps for the remembrance of past 
kindness” (Latin Satire 231-32). 


| 








Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Angiolieri, de’ Faitinelli, and Tedaldi 115 


century. Additionally, the sixteenth-century scholar and descendent of 
Angiolieri, Celso Cittadini, who was responsible for compiling the manuscript 
Siena H X 47, annotates therein the sonnet addressed to Dante. He adds an 
explanatory note, which both expands upon Angiolieri’s exile and relates it to 
the events narrated by Boccaccio (Decameron 9: 4). Cittadini writes: “[...] 
perché Cecco andé a Roma a Stare in casa del Con(te) Riccardo Petroni sanese 
molto suo sign(ore) [other ink: “e parente”] come tocca il Bocc® [Boccaccio] 
nella 87n. [...]” (f. 7v).’ It is not clear how much merit to give to Cittadini’s 
marginal comment; he does not provide the source of his information, and Siena 
H X 47 was written in 1597, almost three centuries after Angiolieri’s death. 
Furthermore, Boccaccio says nothing about Angiolieri visiting Rome after the 
events narrated in the Decameron. Nonetheless, Cittadini’s indication of 
Angiolieri’s possible refuge at the house of a powerful relative constitutes a 
precious biographical datum about the life of the poet. From the information 
possessed, we can reasonably deduce both the approximate date of Angiolieri’s 
banishment and the fact that he probably took shelter in Rome. 

Angiolieri constructs the sonnet “Se Die m/’aiuti, a le sante guagnele” 
around the use — or abuse — of religious terminology. He opens the poem with 
an appeal to God’s assistance, but immediately follows it with a blasphemous 
interjection (v. 1). He then explains that, if he lives to see the day when his 
banishment from Siena is lifted, all pain, even that of a finger in the eye, will 
feel joyful to him (vv. 2-4). The description of being poked in the eye seems to 
recall distantly Christ’s admonition: “If your right eye causes you to sin, gouge 
it out and throw it away” (Matthew 5:29). If the echo of the Gospel is deliberate, 
then Angiolieri envisions his return to Siena as like a cleansing of the flesh of 
sin. In the following verse, the poet employs much clearer biblical language to 
express his imagined happiness, saying that it will be like milk and honey 
(“latt’e méle,” v. 4). The latter, more direct citation of the Bible reinforces the 
interpretation of the previous verse as being based upon the Gospel of Matthew. 
In the book of Exodus, the Lord describes the Promised Land to Moses as 
“flowing with milk and honey” (8:8). In other words, Cecco’s current condition 
is akin to that of the Israelites’ servitude in Egypt. He establishes a parallel 
between his current banishment and that of the ancient Jews. More generally, 
since during the Middle Ages the story of Exodus was frequently read as an 
analogue to humankind’s state of sinfulness prior to Christ’s advent,* Cecco 


7 The annotation of Siena H X 47 is transcribed diplomatically and in full here. The only 
intervention is that of expanding contractions, and that material appears within 
parentheses. 

8 See, for instance, Dante’s Epistle to Cangrande where he reads the story of Exodus as 
both the liberation of the ancient Israelites from slavery and as the redemption of 
humankind from sin to salvation by Christ’s crucifixion: “[...] si ad allegoriam, nobis 


116 Fabian Alfie 


likens his exile to a state of permanent sinfulness and punishment. Through the 
use of biblical and spiritual terminology, the opening quatrain suggests a sinful 
quality to Angiolieri’s current situation and contrasts it with the idea that to 
return will be like paradise. 

In the second quatrain, he explains that he will be like a dove without 
bitterness (v. 5); Antonio Lanza notes that those birds were described in the 
bestiaries as lacking bile (66n4). Furthermore, the image of the dove 
corresponds to the appropriation of mystical terminology already seen in the 
first quatrain. It recollects the story of Noah who knew the flood had ended 
when the dove returned to the ark with an olive branch in its beak (Genesis 
8:11). Again, by recalling the biblical flood, Angiolieri instills into this sonnet 
the comparison of his future return to Siena with the arrival at a Promised Land 
or paradise. He thus reiterates the notion of the cleansing from sin. Cecco 
continues by promising that he will live humbly and asserts that his suffering 
will soften the hearts of even the most cruel (vv. 6-8). In the first tercet, the 
rationale for the poet’s borrowing of biblical and spiritual language comes into 
sharp focus. He claims that all his suffering would seem as pure as gold if he 
only had the hope of those in purgatory (vv. 9-11). By phrasing the latter 
statement as a hypothesis of impossibility, Angiolieri makes clear that he has no 
hope of ever returning home. But the poet’s reference to purgatory implies more 
than despair. At this point, the reader becomes aware that Angiolieri sets up two 
structural parallels in the poem: between exile and hell, and between Siena and 
an unattainable paradise. Hence, images of current sinfulness and future, or 
rather, hypothetical redemption act in concert to underscore the notion that 
Cecco has lost all hope and that his exile is more than a temporary purgatory but 
rather a permanent damnation. 

In the final tercet, Angiolieri draws a second element of the sonnet into 
focus. In a previous study, I noted that Angiolieri foregrounds his self- 
presentation in this sonnet (170-74). At that time, I argued that Cecco’s poetic 
persona is not necessarily an accurate representation of Angiolieri, the historical 
person. While Angiolieri may utilize some biographical data to give 
verisimilitude to his self-portrait, it is ultimately a literary construct carefully 
crafted for artistic objectives. In this sonnet, he employs the persona to make a 
statement about the banished. If exile is like hell, then Angiolieri draws a natural 
conclusion about the nature of the exiled individual. He explains that he will 
never return to his native city by sarcastically stating that it will occur when he 
and his father are in agreement (vv. 12-14). Antipaternal hatred is a topos of 
Angiolieri’s poetics but it also functions within the economy of the sonnet to 
establish an unreliable narrating voice. In the sixth commandment, God instructs 
human beings to “Honor your father and your mother” (Exodus 20:12). In 





significatur nostra redemptio facta per Christum; si ad moralem sensum, significatur 
nobis conversio anime de luctu et miseria peccati ad statum gratie [...] ” (Epistole 13: 21). 


Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Angiolieri, de’ Faitinelli, and Tedaldi 117 


almost all of his poems, Angiolieri constructs a deliberately negative poetic 
persona and this sonnet is no exception.’ By publicly writing of his animus 
towards his father, Angiolieri portrays himself to be a sinner who violates at 
least one of the biblical commandments. Indeed, since he describes himself 
throughout the poem as a damned soul, he consciously undercuts the sympathy 
evoked for his situation. After all, as Virgil explains to Dante in /nferno, since 
God’s justice is infallible, a person should not have pity for those condemned to 
hell: “Qui vive la pieta quand’é ben morta” (20:28).'° Throughout the sonnet, 
Angiolieri deliberately casts himself as responsible for his unfortunate 
circumstances. Hence, he blasphemes in the incipit verse, he postpones purging 
himself of sin until some unspecified future date (vv. 3, 5, 6) and recalls for the 
reader that he is not an obedient son (vv. 12-14). The poet writes an internally 
consistent sonnet in which exile is depicted as a sinful hell on earth and the 
banished individual is a sinner deserving of such punishment. Angiolieri’s 
poetic acumen was not missed by the readers of the fourteenth century for, as 
shall be shown below, his sonnet became a type of palimpsest for other writers. 

The poet from Lucca, Pietro de’ Faitinelli (b. ca. 1280-1290; d. 1349), has a 
corpus of some eighteen poems, ten of which deal explicitly with political 
struggles. In 1313, Pisa, the Tuscan stronghold of the Ghibellines, named 
Uguccione della Faggiuola as captain and on 5 November of that year 
Uguccione invaded the Lucchese territories. On 13 December 1313, the Pisan 
army entered Lucca proper and massacred its citizens. On 14 June 1314, 
Uguccione’s forces again entered Lucca and the chronicles speak of them setting 
fire to over one hundred houses and sacking the cathedral of San Frediano." 
Subsequently, Faitinelli, a Black Guelph, was exiled for seventeen years; he was 
not allowed back into Lucca until 1331 (Vitale, Rimatori comico-realistici 650). 
He lived for a long period of time in the Veneto, perhaps even meeting the poet 
Nicolo de’ Rossi (Marti, “Pietro dei Faitinelli” 164). In his political poetry, 
Pietro speaks openly about his anger at the Pisan Ghibellines and at Uguccione 
in particular (“Veder mi par gid quel da la Faggiuola/ re di Toscana: io dico 
d’Uguccione,” vv. 1-2). He chastises the Guelphs for their weakness (“Poi rotti 
sete a scoglio presso a riva,/ guelfi [...],” vv. 1-2) and reproofs their prideful 
boasting (“Gia per minacce guerra non si venze,” v. 1; “Voi gite molto arditi a 
far la mostra,” v. 1). Hence, unlike Angiolieri, Faitinelli focuses on the events of 
the day in his lyric production and comments upon them. 

Pietro also writes frankly about his experiences as an exile. Paolo Orvieto 
and Lucia Brestolini mention that the poeti giocosi frequently compose marginal 


° For more in-depth discussions of Angiolieri’s poetic persona, see Alfie (165-92) and 
Barrett (48-59). 

'© The Commedia is cited in conformity with Petrocchi’s edition. 

'! Information about Uguccione della Faggiuola’s war against Lucca is culled from 
Cappuccio (80-81). 


118 Fabian Alfie 


and dejected poetic personae through the careful selection and exaggeration of 
particular biographical traits (127). Those scholars’ general description about the 
group of comic writers appears appropriate for Faitinelli in particular. In one 
sonnet, he puns on the name of Uguccione’s lieutenant, Castruccio, and utilizes 
it to comment on his own personal humiliation. He describes his 
disempowerment as if a literal emasculation and speaks of Castruccio as the one 
who castrated him: “Si mi castro, per ch’io non sia castrone,/ Castruccio, quando 
Lucca fu tradita,/ che de’ miei lombi ¢ la lussuria uscita/ e vivo in castita per sua 
cagione” (vv. 1-4). Another sonnet begins with two quatrains which express the 
sadness of living estranged from one’s native city: “Onde mi dee venir giochi e 
sollazzi?/ onde mi dee venir motti con risa?/ onde, se non tormenti d’ogni 
guisa?/ onde mi dee venir, se non ch’io impazzi?” (vv. 1-4). In that poem, he 
portrays the psychological state of the banished as one of depression and 
anguish. He despairs, he writes, for he sees Lucca in the hands of the Pisans (vv. 
7-8) and he describes the city in part in terms of a raped woman: “Veggiola 
ontata, nuda ed abitata,/ non da lo suo antico abitatore,/ ma da color che I’hanno 
si guidata” (vv. 9-11).” Like Cecco, Pietro creates self-portraits in his verse. 
More so than Angiolieri, however, Faitinelli appears to base them on actual 
personal sentiments, opinions and experiences. 
In still another sonnet, Faitinelli envisions his return to Lucca and writes: 


S’io veggio in Lucca bella mio ritorno, 
che fi’ quando la pera fie ben mezza, 
in nullo cuore uman tant’allegrezza 
gia mai non fu, quant’io avrd quel giorno. 

Le mura andro leccando d’ogni intorno 
e gli uomini, piangendo d’allegrezza; 
odio, rancore, guerra ed ogni empiezza 
porro git contra quei che mi cacciorno. 

E qui me’ voglio ’| bretto castagniccio, 
*nanzi ch’altrove pan di gran calvello; 
*nanzi ch’altrove pium qui il graticcio. 

Ch’i’ ho provato si amaro morsello, 
€ provo e prover, stando esiticcio, 
che ’] bianco e ’l ghibellin vo’ per fratello. 

(674-75) 


Antonio Lanza points out the similarity between the incipit verse of 


667 7D 


Faitinelli’s poem and the second line of Angiolieri’s sonnet (“s’i’? veggio ‘1 di sia 


'2 The language of the latter verses, it should be noted, seem to echo distantly the passage 
from the Book of Lamentations cited by Dante to suggest Beatrice’s death: “Quomodo 
sedet sola civitas plena populo! facta est quasi vidua domina gentium” (28: 1). The Vita 
nuova is cited from De Robertis’s edition. 


Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Angiolieri, de’ Faitinelli, and Tedaldi 119 


’n Siena ribandito”) (66n2). Like Cecco (vv. 3-4), Faitinelli imagines his 
happiness on the day when he will be allowed back into Lucca (vv. 3-4) and he 
claims that he will make peace with his former enemies (vv. 7-8; v. 14). 
Faitinelli’s reminiscences of Angiolieri seem to comprise another case of 
Cecco’s influence on another jocose writer. Pietro’s exile occurred after 
Uguccione’s triumph over Lucca, which itself took place several years after 
Angiolieri’s death. There is some reason to believe, therefore, that Faitinelli may 
have been familiar with Angiolieri’s sonnet and may have recollected it for 
artistic reasons. 

Faitinelli’s lyric differs somewhat from Angiolieri’s antecedent. 
Angiolieri’s poem emphasizes the pain of being forced out of Siena; Pietro’s, in 
contrast, stresses the joy of an eventual return. Faitinelli does not dedicate much 
attention in the poem to the depiction of life in exile. Instead, he positions his 
sonnet as dependent upon Angiolieri’s description. He takes for granted that the 
readers are familiar with Cecco’s portrait of the dreariness of living under 
banishment; the literary precedent provides the backdrop for Pietro’s imagined 
happy return to Lucca. Faitinelli writes that such a day will be long overdue in 
coming (v. 2); he employs the metaphor of an overripe pear to underscore the 
length of time spent outside of his city. He then asserts that no other human 
heart will have felt such felicity (vv. 3-4) and exemplifies the emotion by 
describing his actions on that day: he will lick the walls of Lucca (v. 5) and 
other men will weep for joy (v. 6). The poet stresses the happiness of his return 
by twice placing the word “allegrezza” in the rhyming position at the end of a 
verse (vv. 3, 6). Faitinelli closes the second quatrain by stating that he will set 
aside all rancor, hostility and bitterness against those who have had him 
banished (vv. 7-8). The opening octave establishes a jubilant tone, one which is 
projected out onto a hypothetical future and which contrasts in an understated 
manner with the pain of the present situation. 

In the tercets, Pietro explicitly spells out the opposition between life in 
Lucca and that in banishment. He says that he would rather eat the coarse bread 
of the humble in his native town than to have highly refined bread elsewhere 
(vv. 9-10). It is possible that Pietro’s reference to the distinction between the 
bread of Tuscany and that of other parts of Italy is an oblique reminscence of 
Dante’s description of exile in Paradiso: “Tu proverai si come sa di sale/ lo pane 
altrui” (17: 58-59). Pietro then reiterates the preference for Lucca in the 
following line when he writes that he would rather sleep on a hard bed in that 
city than on a fine feather mattress elsewhere (v. 11). In the final tercet, he 
explains the reason for the opinions expressed in the previous three lines and, in 
so doing, he underscores the two structures of the sonnet. He says that he wishes 
to return to Lucca for he has suffered so much by being banished (vv. 12-13). 
He compares his torment to eating a bitter morsel (v. 12), drawing the readers’ 
attention to a network of food imagery running throughout the lyric. In the last 
line, he mentions that he will be the brother of Ghibellines and White Guelphs 


120 Fabian Alfie 


(v. 14). The closing verse, with its promise of an end to the political infighting 
and interpersonal hatreds, recalls the earlier statement that he will renounce 
rancor against those who banished him (vv. 7-8). Thus, Pietro completes a 
second thread running through the sonnet, that of eventually pardoning his 
enemies. By introducing these two structures, Pietro provides internal 
consistency to the lyric. Faitinelli focuses on the desire to return home in this 
sonnet, leaving the torment of banishment as subtext. Faitinelli’s poem, 
however, will not be the last word on the subject. 

The Florentine poet Pieraccio Tedaldi (b. ca. 1285-1290; d. ca. 1350) 
composes some forty-two sonnets during his lifetime. His poetry deals with 
various topics, including misogyny," the complaint against poverty," the 
promotion of morality,’ and contemptus mundi.’° He also writes of personal 
matters in several poems. For example, in two sonnets he speaks, apparently as 
an old man, about the loss of eyesight. In “Se parte del veder i’ ho mancato” he 
explains his visual problems as being the result of his sinfulness: “deh come mi 
sta ben, in veritade,/ per che con gli occhi molta vanitade,/ con ciascun d’essi, 
lasso! ho gia mirato” (vv. 2-4). In another, he turns to Saint Lucy for assistance: 
“Santa Lucia, per tua verginitate/ i’ priego che per me pregh’Iddio / che lui mi 
sani ciascun occhio mio,/ dov’i’ ho tant’amara scuritate” (vv. 1-4). In one other 
sonnet, he directs his attention to another apparently personal issue: 


S’io veggio il di, che io disio e spero, 
di ritornare a star dentro a Firenza, 
e che io facci 1a mia risidenza, 
avro salute al mio voler sincero. 
E se di cid adempio il mio pensiero, 
per la virtt di Dio che n’ha potenza, 
e cid confermo e dico daddivero, 
e non credo far di la mai dispartenza. 
Questo egli é, ché i’ sono oggimai sazio 
del tanto dimorare qui in Romagna, 
che a considerallo é uno strazio. 
Vorrei partir omai d’esta campagna 
e ritornar nel dilettoso spazio 
de la nobil citta gioiosa e magna. (714-15) 


'3 For example, see the sonnets “S’io veggo il di che io mai mi dispigli,” “El maladetto di 
ch’io pensai,” and “Qualunque m’arrecassi la novella.” 

'4 For example, see the sonnets “Tal si solea per me levare in piede,” “E’ piccoli fiorin 
d’argento e d’oro,” “O me, che io mi sento si smarrito,” and “I’ truovo molti amici di 
starnuto.” 

'S See, for example, the sonnets “S’io veggo il di ch’i’ vinca me medesimo,” “Corretto 
son del tutto e gastigato,” and “Io vo in me gramo spesso ripetendo.” 

'© See, for example, the sonnets “O uom che vivi assai in questo mondo,” “Amico, il 
mondo é oggi a tal venuto,” and “Io non trovo omo che viva contento.” 


Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Angiolieri, de’ Faitinelli, and Tedaldi 121 


As with Angiolieri, the cause of Tedaldi’s banishment is not known. The 
manuscript containing the sonnet, Vaticano Latino 3213 (unicus), presents a 
rubric which reads: “Del detto [Tedaldi], sendo stato anni 25 fuori di Firenza, e 
avendo grande desiderio di ritornare [...].”"’ To what extent the rubric can be 
trusted is not certain; if it is accurate, then it establishes the basis for reading the 
sonnet biographically at least in part. 

The manuscript rubric not only allows readers to interpret Tedaldi’s 
sonnet in light of historical factors but also gives an indication of its relationship 
to the previously studied works. Pieraccio’s incipit verse, “S’io veggio il di, che 
io disio e spero,” recalls that of Faitinelli (“S’io veggio in Lucca bella mio 
ritorno”) as well as, even more strongly, the second line of Angiolieri’s poem 
(“s’? veggio ’l di sia ’n Siena ribandito”). In other words, by opening the sonnet 
in that manner, Pieraccio seems to position himself as receiving the example set 
by Angiolieri and, quite possibly, negotiating it with the influence of Faitinelli."* 
Given that Tedaldi was probably born in the last two decades of the 7recento, 
his sonnet certainly came after that by Angiolieri. If Pieraccio wrote his sonnet 
after twenty-five years of exile, as Vaticano Latino 3213 states, then the date of 
composition occurred most likely after the seventeen years of Faitinelli’s 
banishment (1314-1331); this conclusion, however, is not certain. Tedaldi seems 
to constitute the third link in a chain, metaphorically speaking, which began with 
Angiolieri around the year of 1304. 

Like both Faitinelli and Angiolieri, Tedaldi emphasizes his self-depiction in 
the sonnet. He neither stresses his abject condition like Cecco, nor envisions a 
joyful return to his native land like Pietro; instead, he crafts a psychological 
poem which highlights his hopes and wants as a banished individual. He studs 
the two quatrains with terminology suggestive of the psyche of the poetic 
persona: “disio e spero” (v. 1), “voler” (v. 4), “pensiero,” (v. 5), “non credo” (v. 
8). Tedaldi begins structuring the sonnet around the wishes of the narrating 
voice in the incipit verse. He writes in the first quatrain that if he resides once 
again in Florence, his sincere desire will be fulfilled (vv. 1-4). He states that his 
will, at that time, will be healthy (“avrd salute al mio voler sincero,” v. 4), 
implying that his unsatisfied yearnings have left him unbalanced in some way. 
Pieraccio’s understated implication of mental anguish recollects Angiolieri’s 
more thorough examination of the psychology of the exiled. Perhaps the poet 
relies on the reader’s recognition of the intertextualities with the other poet to 


'7 The rubric and information about Vaticano Latino 3213 are cited from Morpurgo (74). 
'8 It should be noted that Pieraccio uses the formula “S’i vegg(i)o il di” in other poems as 
well (see the incipit verses listed in notes 13 and 15). I find it interesting that in the other 
sonnets, Tedaldi uses a different form of vedere (“veggo”) than in the sonnet about exile. 
While I would not want to read too much into such a minor linguistic variation, I wonder 
if the option to use “veggio” in the sonnet about banishment were a further indication of 
the intertextuality with Angiolieri and/or Faitinelli. 


122 Fabian Alfie 


fill in the informational gaps in the sonnet and understand already Pieraccio’s 
tragic conditions. 

In the second quatrain, Pieraccio continues speaking psychologically by 
stating that he fills his thoughts with God’s virtue and power (vv. 5-6). He says 
truthfully that he does not believe his mind deviates from the contemplation of 
the Lord (vv. 7-8). He does not clarify whether he hopes that Christ will lift his 
banishment or if, rather, his torment has made him a better Christian. Owing to 
the other references to his psyche in these verses, I am inclined to believe the 
latter, although the former interpretation is not out of the question. Giuseppe 
Mazzotta characterizes Dante’s conception of exile as linked to a poetic act 
which transmits the Truth to the people (138). In some respects — although, to 
be sure, in a far less systematic manner than in the Commedia — Pieraccio’s 
verse corresponds to Mazzotta’s suggestion. In Tedaldi’s poem, too, exile may 
cause a spiritual conversion in the poet that is subsequently communicated to the 
reading community. In this respect, Tedaldi seems to echo another work by 
Dante in which the great poet speaks of banishment. In the canzone “Tre donne 
intorno al cor mi son venute,” Alighieri first explains that his suffering has 
caused him to feel as if he had been burned in a flame: “Ma questo foco m’have 
/ gia consumato si l’ossa e la polpa,/ che Morte al petto m’ha posto la chiave” 
(vv. 85-88)."° Immediately thereafter, however, Dante spells out that whatever 
blame he may have had in causing his exile has been washed away through 
contrition: “Onde, s’io ebbi colpa,/ pit lune ha volto il sol poi che fu spenta,/ se 
colpa muore perché I’uom si penta” (vv. 89-90). Tedaldi’s poem can be read as 
taking Dante’s assertions one step further. Not only has the sin of the exiled 
individual been cleansed, as Dante asserts in the canzone, but the process of 
seeking forgiveness has brought Pieraccio closer to God than formerly. 
Tedaldi’s sonnet is almost a corrective to Cecco’s. Moreover, while in the latter 
the exiled are viewed as sinful and deserving of their torment, in the former, the 
punishment can affect a renewed faith in God. 

In the first tercet, Pieraccio explains that he has had his fill with living in 
Romagna to such an extent that even considering it is a torture (vv. 9-11). The 
verb “considerallo” (v. 11) links the first tercet with the network of 
psychological terminology in the opening octave. The mere thought of 
banishment is excruciating (“strazio,” v. 11), and the punishment of exile 
represents the only overt statement in the sonnet of his dismay about his current 
situation. Pieraccio constructs the sextet, however, around a second structure: 
the contrast between here (banishment in Romagna) and there (Florence). The 
poet had foregrounded the structural polarity in the opening octave by referring 
to the city of Florence (v. 2) and by using words like “ritornare” (v. 2) and “1a” 
(v. 3). But the focus on the distinction between exile and Tedaldi’s native city is 
accentuated in the tercets as he expresses his desire to return home (vv. 12-14). 


'? Dante’s canzone is cited from Cudini’s edition of the rime. 


Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Angiolieri, de’ Faitinelli, and Tedaldi 123 


Romagna itself, not just banishment, is presented in a distinctly negative light. 
He mentions that he is “sated” with his residence there (“sazio,” v. 9) and 
depicts that region as a rustic countryside (“campagna,” v. 12). Conversely, he 
states that he wishes to return to Florence (v. 13), calling it a delightful space 
(“dilettoso spazio,” v. 11) and a noble, joyful and great city (“nobil citta gioiosa 
e magna,” v. 14). In these verses, the poet does more than simply contrast two 
geographical regions. Rather, he taps into the medieval cultural dualism between 
the urban and the rural: the former was generally viewed positively while the 
latter was thought of negatively (Cadden 2). Through his lexical choices, 
Pieraccio clearly associates the positive valences of urbanitas with Florence and 
the negative connotations of rusticitas with the Romagna. Thus, the internal 
structure of here/there is joined to a greater cultural perspective. By doing so, 
Pieraccio gives depth to his expressions of hatred for his status as an exile and 
highlights his wishes to be allowed back in his native land. 

In conclusion, Cecco Angiolieri, Pietro de’ Faitinelli, and Pieraccio Tedaldi 
all apparently found themselves forced to reside involuntarily outside their home 
cities. For Faitinelli, documentation attests to the fact that he was actually 
banished from Lucca because of the internecine warfare; for Angiolieri and 
Tedaldi, both the evidence internal to their poetic productions and the 
manuscript marginalia suggest estrangement from Siena and Florence, 
respectively. To varying degrees, all three of the sonnets examined illustrate the 
personal impact of exile. Yet we should avoid reading the poetry as merely the 
simple “primitive” expressions of the private pain of those three individuals. 
Rather, they all craft the sonnets in line with literary precedents and artistic 
exigencies. Angiolieri, in keeping with his artistic modus operandi, crafts a self- 
denigrating poetic persona in his depiction of life away from Siena as a hell on 
earth. Possibly building upon Angiolieri’s characterization of banishment, 
Faitinelli emphasizes the happiness he will feel upon his eventual return to 
Lucca. He uses food imagery to contrast with the “bitter morsel” of exile he has 
been forced to ingest. Tedaldi, in contrast, utilizes the intertextuality with 
Angiolieri and possibly also with Faitinelli to speak of his own personal spiritual 
transformation. He too constructs a poetic persona and imbues it with the 
psychology of the outcast. The examples of Faitinelli and Tedaldi underscore 
further the influence that Angiolieri had on subsequent writers of poesia 
giocosa. The sonnets of all three authors, however, also assist in dispelling a 
long-held opinion about the comic poets of the Due and Trecento. Scholars of 
the early twentieth century frequently labeled those writers as “burlesque” and 
explained their poetry as the writings of bizarre individuals.” By foregrounding 
the figure of the irascible poet in the interpretation of the poetry, scholarship 


?° For characteristic readings of jocose poetry as evidence of the pathological nature of 
the poets, see the following: Sapegno 380; Russo, “La critica moderna” 205; Rho 499- 
500; and Russo, “Cecco Fortarrighi” (319). 


124 Fabian Alfie 


seemed to suggest that the lyrics lacked substance. In other words, a critical 
tendency developed of interpreting their lyrics as devoid of any significant 
meaning. The three sonnets studied above, however, to a great degree give the 
lie to the impression created by the earlier criticism. Far from being merely the 
utterances of scoundrels, the three poems demonstrate the engagement of the 
respective writers in the events of their society at large. They illustrate that 
Cecco Angiolieri, Pietro de’ Faitinelli, and Pieraccio Tedaldi, while still writing 
in the style of comic literature, composed verses about circumstances of 
personal and social relevance. 


The University of Arizona, Tucson 


Cast Out: The Topos of Exile in Angiolieri, de’ Faitinelli, and Tedaldi 125 


Works Cited 


Alfie, Fabian. Comedy and Culture: Cecco Angiolieri’s Poetry and Late Medieval 
Society. Leeds: Northern Universities Press, 2001. 
Alighieri, Dante. La divina commedia secondo I'antica vulgata. 4 vols. Ed. Giorgio 
Petrocchi. Milano: Mondadori, 1966-67. 
. Opere minori. Vol. 3, Tome 3. Ed. Arsenio Frugoni, Giorgio Brugnoli, Enzo 
Cecchini, Francesco Mazzoni. Milano: Ricciardi, 1995. 
. Le rime. Ed. Piero Cudini. Milano: Garzanti, 1979. 
. Vita nuova. Ed. Domenico De Robertis. Milano: Ricciardi, 1980. 
Angiolieri, Cecco. Le rime. Ed. Antonio Lanza. Roma: Guido Izzi, 1990. 
Barrett, Tracy. “The Poetic Persona of Cecco Angiolieri.” Medieval Perspectives 3:1 
(1988): 48-59. 
Cadden, Joan. Meanings of Sex Differences in the Middle Ages: Medicine, Science, and 
Culture. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1993. 
Cappuccio, Carmelo. Folgore da San Gimignano e Cene da la Chitarra. Siracusa: 
Santoro, 1924. 
Marti, Mario. Cultura e stile nei poeti giocosi del tempo di Dante. Pisa: Nistri, 1953. 
. I poeti giocosi del tempo di Dante. Milano: Rizzoli, 1956. 
Mazzotta, Giuseppe. Dante, Poet of the Desert: History and Allegory in the Divine 
Comedy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1979. 
Morpurgo, Salomone, ed. Le rime di Pieraccio Tedaldi. Firenze: Alla libreria Dante, 
1885. 
Orvieto, Paolo, and Lucia Brestolini. La poesia comico-realistica. Dalle origini al 
Cinquecento. Roma: Carocci, 2001. 
Rho, Edmondo. “Cecco Angiolieri.” Civilta moderna 3 (1931): 499-512. 
Russo, Luigi. “Cecco Fortarrighi e Cecco Angiulieri.” Letture critiche del Decameron. 
Bari: Laterza, 1956. 314-20. 
. “La critica moderna e gli italiani.” Problemi di metodo critico. Bari: Laterza, 
1929. 195-205. 
Sapegno, Natalino. “La lingua e l’arte di Cecco Angiolieri.” Convivium 1 (1929): 371-82. 
Vitale, Maurizio. Lingua dei poeti realistico-giocosi del '200 e '300. Milano: La 
Goliardica, 1955. 
. Rimatori comico-realistici del Due e Trecento. Torino: UTET, 1956. 
Waddell, Helen. The Wandering Scholars. London: Constable, 1934. 
Witke, Charles. Latin Satire: The Structure of Persuasion. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 1970. 





oN 


of 


7 
sa Oe 6 sre ieee A WY. ah oi! 
- _ a a ery ere 





hae Apt 
i 
_ a 
> 
_ 
merida 8 » 
| 
“ boys we = aw 46-* 11 ohne) 
ed i a 
oh hog _' oo j fp 
re i ret ey | a 
© BBP 
a - >? >=) ee 
_) a ae —— 
Oo - fh ie oo em 
t= 
ave ae fa i 
_ 7 SO a ae _ 
t+ => om 46 
1 re ee ee 
7 7~s ce ot ome. 4 
a 
7 ee = wt 
~ * a i 


Re A etl 


tt" ext iad 


7 rs 
1 1 ehGT 
ee i «oth. a Got 
+ > a ee ait 
ao pe Any 





Thomas E. Peterson 
Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 


[... ] agnos in uinculis, Christum denique exulem lal 


Tasso’s debts to Petrarch are manifest, as is clear from the Discorsi del poema 
eroico, “La Cavaletta overo della poesia toscana,” and other works in which 
references to the Rerum vulgarium fragmenta (hereafter RVF) and Trionfi 
abound.” The same is also apparent to any reader of Tasso’s Rime, whose 
Petrarchism surpasses what Bembo formulated as a Petrarchan model to imitate 
in the field of lyric poetry.’ But our concern here is a different one: it is the 
dynamic and dramatic sharing in the Gerusalemme liberata (hereafter GL) of 
Petrarch’s moral and poetic itinerary in the RVF, as is revealed by a study of the 
theme of exile. 

The reality of exile and the metaphor of exile are intertwined in both works. 
Such a metaphor embraces reality; though it speaks of an experience that is 
fictional, it carries with it the pain and stigma, and the opportunities, of real 
exile. In both the RVF and GL one finds a thematics of redemptive and 
progressive cleansing and elevation of the principal characters of both 
masterpieces according to the figural connotations Auerbach explored.* The 
Christian and specifically Augustinean dimension of both works imbues their 


' Petrarca, Sine nomine (220-21n19), “gli agnelli in gabbia, e infine l’esilio di Cristo” 
refers to the degradation of papal Avignon 

2 Sozzi, “Il Tasso estimatore del Petrarca,” writes, “La diretta usufruizione delicatissima 
del Petrarca nella poesia del Tasso si estende [...] anzi dalle Rime all’Aminta, alla 
Gerusalemme Liberata, al Torrismondo, e pit oltre” (45). We refer in this article to the 
following editions and translations: F. Petrarca, Canzoniere, ed. M. Santagata; Petrarch's 
Songbook. Rerum Vulgarium Fragmenta, trans. James Wyatt Cook [abbreviated here as 
PS]; T. Tasso, Gerusalemme liberata, ed. C. Varese and G. Arbizzoni; T. Tasso, 
Jerusalem Delivered, trans. A. Esolen [abbreviated here as JD]. For a comprehensive 
study of Tasso’s debts to Petrarch in his lyric poetry, see Brand. 

3 For a discussion of the religiously wan but stylistically accomplished derivation from 
Petrarch by Tasso in his lyric poetry see Brand. 

4 Auerbach, “Figura”: “[Augustine] took the view—which had long ago become part of 
the tradition—that the Old Testament was pure phenomenal prophecy, and he laid more 
stress than others on certain passages in the Pauline epistles. [...] The observances of the 
law [...] and the sacraments quae habuerunt promissivas figuras (‘which served as figures 
of promise’), are the letter of Scripture, precisely in the sense that their undoubted carnal 
and historical reality has, no less historically, been revealed and spiritually interpreted by 
the Christian fulfillment [...]” (39-40). 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


128 Thomas E. Peterson 


narratives, guiding them to a unified resolution (though this unity is more 
implicit in the lyric sequence, more explicit in the epic). In this tradition the Old 
Testament is a prophetic prefiguration of the New; the incarnation of God in 
Christ is actual, a lived experience of salvation and all of the bible is viewed in 
light of this providential history. (It is significant that while the term exilium 
does not occur in the New Testament, the concept remains alive, and is 
translated as “here on earth,” “away from heaven,” etc.) The present life is an 
exile from the life to come, as both poets certainly believed as part of their 
Christian faith. By the same token, in the historical climate of humanism which 
the two poets’ lifetimes effectively circumscribe, the experience of salvation and 
transcendence are available in this life. Both poets advance a sense of prophetic 
prefiguration that is wholly Augustinean, syncretic and neoplatonist. In their 
religious practice, the sanctity of Christ’s incarnation is recreated in prayer, in 
the liturgy and Holy Offices, and in poetry.° 

In a late letter to a friend who had been exiled by the Visconti of Milan, 
Petrarch writes that he should feel fortunate for his “exile” because he is free of 
the jealousies and avidity; in closing he refers to exile in a way that is common 
throughout his work, citing Cicero’s notion of this mortal life as an exile, and 
our bodies as prisons.° The notion of exile as a test in life, even an opportunity 
to attain honor, is presented by Petrarch in the De Remediis utriusque Fortune, 
in which Reason explains to Sorrow that “Many have been honored by their 
exile — many have become, through the powers of misfortune and outrage, as it 
were, better known and more respected.” The honor of exile — because of the 
political and religious upheavals of both the 14" and 16™ centuries — will be a 
challenge for either poet to attain, in solitude and ultimately in religious retreat. 

Another layer in either poet’s use of the topos of exile is provided by the 
amor de lonh of the trobadors, the exile from the beloved. This convention 
requires the minstrel to compose a song for a distant and unrequited love: one is 
on a relative plane, of absolute — in the sense of unbridgeable — distances. And 
there is added pertinence to this syncretic fact when one considers that among 


* Pozzi “Petrarca, i Padri e soprattutto la Bibbia,” analyzes Petrarch’s progressive 
adoption of a “Davidic” poetic voice in terms of an increase in the images of weeping and 
water, and in his practice of biblical citation: “Ora il lavoro centonario del poeta si 
concentra con un’insistenza singolare sull’elemento acqueo. Prevalenza di elemento 
acqueo in un contesto del genere fa tutt’uno con le lacrime che definiscono la poesia di 
Davide, nonché con quelle bibliche, sparse nei RVF [...]” (183). 

° Petrarca, Lettere disperse, “Piacesse per ultimo al cielo, cid che m’avete augurato nelle 
lettere vostre, che dopo questo esilio, non vostro soltanto, ma da noi tutti condiviso, che 
in questa morte che si dice vita ci troviamo trattenuti dai lacci e dalla prigione del corpo, 
ci vedessimo alla fine liberi nella patria e nella terra dei viventi” (463). A. Pancheri 
comments, ibid, “La sentenza ciceroniana (Tusc., I 31, 75) e la definizione della vita 
come esilio e del corpo come carcere ricorrono spesso nell’ opera petrarchesca” (462). 

7 Petrarca, Petrarch's Remedies for Fortune Fair and Foul 3: 152. 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 129 


the continuators of the amor de lonh tradition in the poets of the dolce stil 
nuovo, the most prominent were also political exiles — Cavalcanti, Cino da 
Pistoia and the illustrious Florentine who wrote, “l’essilio che m’é dato onor mi 
tegno.”® 

Comparing Petrarch to Dante, Contini contrasts the “transcendental” 
character of Dante’s Florentine-ness to the civic identity of Petrarch, born into 
exile: “la fiorentinita di questo fiorentino della Diaspora bianca, nato esule e 
stato giusto a balia in Valdarno, cresciuto in quel Laterano super flumina 
Babylonis che fu Avignone: la medesima Avignone di dove il suo amico Simon 
Martini gettera il seme del gotico internazionale” (102). By referring to his 
“Babylonian” upbringing, Contini adopts the poet’s chosen metaphor of exile 
and seems to suggest the fluvial currents that circulate through the RVF as well 
as the importance there of pictorial and figurative-iconic means of 
representation. As we argue below, the liquid element in the RVF ultimately 
comes to signify the tears of exile and redemption. 

Just as the relationship between Dante and Petrarch remains fertile ground 
for study, so too that between Petrarch and Tasso; and here too one must draw 
some immediate distinctions. In order to grasp the work of Petrarch one is 
obliged to comb the epistolary and other writings, and naturally dwell with the 
poems. Even more than an exquisite synthesis of the Provencal and Siculo- 
Tuscan traditions, one has a culmination in Petrarch and the initiation of 
something entirely new, beginning with the genre of the canzoniere. The writing 
is begun around 1336, when Petrarch is thirty-two years old, and is continued 
until 1368. The contrast with Tasso, who had completed the GL by age thirty- 
one, is distinct. The GL is a work by a genius whose seriousness and vigor in 
formulating and applying his largely Aristotelian precepts is only matched by 
his creative freedom. The biography in question is an early one, before mental 
problems begin to afflict the author, though he suffers from melancholia. 
Torquato is forced to leave his native Naples at age nine, when his father’s 
patron Ferrante Sanseverino, is driven out by the Spanish Viceroy. The boy will 
never see his mother again. This uprooting and exile give rise to Tasso’s alter- 
ego of the Dialoghi, the “Forestiero Napoletano,” the figure of a pilgrim in life. 

The figure of exile then is best viewed in its composite — as metaphor and 
actual experience, literary topos and historical fact, as voluntary and 
involuntary, secular and religious in its connotations. We pursue a parallel 
itinerary between the two works and are guided primarily by lexical and 
thematic comparisons; we hope the juxtaposition will lead to a greater 
understanding of the two poets’ literary commonality of the works and their 
shared salvific or soteriological dimension.’ Our focus is on the dynamics of the 


® Alighieri, “Tre donne intorno al cor mi son venute,” Dante's Lyric Poetry 180-81: “I 
count as an honour the exile imposed on me.” 
° We acknowledge the difficulties in such a study, as suggested by Mengaldo, Giudizi di 


130 Thomas E. Peterson 


texts, their outward exploration of stories and histories, and their inward song— 
the “divine inbreathing” of the poet—for the sake of constructing a universe of 
the text that reflects the spiritual and moral order of the cosmos.'° The embrace 
of metaphor and symbol is what enables this mimesis to occur within a 
rhetorical dispositio that is common to both poets, despite differences in genre. 
Scarpati traces Tasso’s adaptation of the stylistic “forces of disjunction” of 
Petrarch to the rhetoric and narrative plan of his epic: 


Il Tasso trasporta l’idea della disgiunzione dal piano retorico a quello narrativo e da 
luogo a una costruzione epica abbracciabile con un solo sguardo perché fortemente 
geometrizzata. [...] da Petrarca [il Tasso] sembra accogliere il suggerimento vitale della 
dispositio, intesa come principio costruttivo, come interna legge regolante il moto 
narrativo. 

(Scarpati 8-9)"! 


Given the negativity of exile and the positive moral pathways descried in 
the works, it is not surprising that lexical occurrences of exile are clustered in 
the earlier portions of the works, or that occurrences coming later serve to recast 
the worldly exile in a divine and sanctified light. The noun “essiglio” appears 
ten times in the GL and is distributed among diverse characters. All but one of 
the six poems in which “exilio” occurs in the RVF are in the first centenary (21, 


valore: “[...] paragonare un poema narrativo-didattico a un canzoniere amoroso non é del 
tutto lecito neppure linguisticamente,’ and we concur that scholars of the literary 
language must adopt a relational view between genres, remembering “che le osservazioni 
in materia andrebbero sempre messe in relazione [...] con le questioni di ‘genere’” (41). 
For an example of such cross-genre criticism see Gibbons. 

'° Petrarca, Opere latine, vol. 2: “poetam natura ipsa valere et mentis viribus excitari et 
quasi divino quodam spiritu afflari” (1258). In his “Coronation Oration,” in Wilkins, 
Studies in the Life and Works of Petrarch, Petrarch cites Cicero concerning the inward 
voice of poets: “We have it upon the authority of the most learned men that whereas 
attainment in other activities depends upon talent, learning, and skill, the poet attains 
through his very nature, is moved by the energy that is within his mind, and is as it were 
inspired by a divine inbreathing [...]” (301). 

'' The citation continues as follows: “Questa @ probabilmente la sostanza del 
petrarchismo tassiano, che va ben al di 1a della modulazione petrarchesca del linguaggio 
epico, anche se necessariamente la include. La Liberata appare sorretta da un disegno 
petrarchesco, da geometrie petrarchesche che non sono anacronistico ripristino: il nesso 
Tasso-Petrarca si instaura in un quadro aggiornatissimo [...]” (9-10). Della Terza provides 
insights on this same issue of “the course Tasso’s experience of Petrarch takes in the 
GL”: “[...] we have two complementary movements, one simplifying and centrifugal, 
which tends to reduce Petrarch’s amplification and color to mere points in the landscape 
of the narrative, and one which tends centripetally to suddenly condense and order in one 
line the strong sensations revelatory of the baroque opening to the world of all the poet’s 
senses” (185). 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 131 


37, 45, 80, 94), the other coming in poem 130; “exiglio” appears in 285 and 
“exilii” in 331." 

The metaphor of exile is accompanied by a host of semantic indicators 
(errare, smarrire, vergogna, peccato, prigione, giogo, laccio, Babilonia, Babel) 
along with those that set the lost soul on the road to salvation (peregrino, 
voltare, Elicona, Gerusalemme); for both Tasso and Petrarch, Neoplatonism and 
St. Augustine play a role in the figurative language employed. And while the 
training of the will is a central concern, the distinction between “voluntary” and 
“involuntary” exile is ultimately effaced in the recognition of humanity’s 
common plight and need for grace in order to free itself through the practice of 
the Word: “‘audi et tu: verbum ipsum clamat, ut redeas [...],” writes Augustine." 

When the GL begins, the epic material is announced; the Muse is invoked 
— “O Musa, tu che di caduchi allori / non circondi la fronte in Elicona” (GL I, 
2) — in a Petrarchan reference to the poet’s site of solace and inspiration; the 
reader is considered; and the patron Alfonso d’Este is addressed. When we meet 
the Saracen hierarchy in Canto II, Ismeno the magician assures the Muslim King 
Aladino that he will gather the “exiled” angels to assist in defeating the 
Christian forces; the use of the tactical metaphor in the celestial context 
bespeaks the apostate Ismeno’s blindness, and the banality and guile of Satan 
and the other rebel angels: 


cid che puod dar di vecchia eta consiglio, 
tutto prometto, e cid che magica arte. 
Gli angeli che dal Cielo ebbero essiglio 
constringero de le fatiche a parte. 
(GL Il, 4.3-6)'* 


'2 RVF 45 is the first-written of these (probably in 1336), coming in the “Prima raccolta” 
of 1342; all of the others, except for RVF 331 are present in the “Redazione Correggio” 
of 1357-58; RVF 331 is first present ten years later in the “Forma Malatesta” (1367-68). 
For the history of the drafts of the canzoniere, beginning with the “Prima raccolta,” see 
Santagata, / frammenti dell anima (137-41). 

'3 Confessionum 1V.11 (66). Concerning Petrarch’s practice of prayer and recitation of 
the Holy Offices and Scripture, Pozzi writes: “La Bibbia diventava attraverso questi usi 
liturgici esperienza di parola reinventata, cui faceva riscontro, riformulata su quel 
modello, la preghiera privata, sia orale che mentale. Era un circuito ininterrotto cui era 
chiamato Il’uomo nella sua interezza di carne e di spirito. La recita consegnava alla 
memoria il testo attraverso la vista e l’udito, ma interveniva, metaforicamente, anche il 
gusto: era definita un masticar parole, cui faceva seguito nella meditazione quel 
rivolgimento dei detti che con vocabolo corrispondente veniva chiamato ‘ruminare’. 
L’esercizio, se impegnava la mente, mirava peré al cuore [...]” (150-51). 

'4 <1 vow to give all of my long years’ sage / counsel, with all that magic arts can do. / 
The angels banished by the Almighty’s rage / shall do our errands—my obedient crew” 
(JD 36). 


132 Thomas E. Peterson 


Later in the canto, Aladino accedes to Clorinda’s request to spare the 
Christian heroine Sofronia, who claims falsely to have stolen the missing icon of 
Mary and burned it; though fearful of her virtue, Aladine dispatches her and her 
suitor Olindo into exile outside of Palestine (Tasso’s source for the exiling of 
Christians from Jerusalem is William of Tyre): 


Ma il sospettoso re stimd periglio 
tanta virt congiunta aver vicina; 
onde, com’egli volse, ambo in essiglio 
oltra i termini andar di Palestina. 
Ei, pur seguendo il suo crudel consiglio, 
bandisce altri fedeli, altri confina. 
(GL Il, 54.1-6)'° 


With this scene Tasso has introduced the iconic or sacramental dimension, 
he has displayed his manneristic mastery of antithesis and introduced, through a 
strong female character and virgin, what Fortini calls the “erotica religiosa” of 
the poem.'® The following incidence, in which Armida appeals to Goffredo’s 
piety and compassion by claiming to have been a voluntary exile (“volontario / 
essiglio”) in order to save her life, is a perversion not only of the eros and 
religion of the Sophronia episode, but of all worthy “voluntary exiles,” such as 
monks and religious contemplatives: 


Ma che giovava, oimé!, che del periglio 
vicino omai fosse presago il core, 
s’irresoluta in ritrovar consiglio 
la mia tenera eta rendea il timore? 
Prender fuggendo volontario essiglio, 
e ignuda uscir del patrio regno fuore, 
grave era si ch’io fea minore stima 
di chiuder gli occhi ove gli apersi in prima. 
(GL IV, 50; my emph.)!” 


No less dramatic in soliciting pity than Sophronia, but but of the inverse 


'S “But the king, wary of dangers that might grow / if such joint virtue should too clearly 
sine, / gave orders that the two be forced to go / settle beyond the bounds of Palestine. / 
He carries out his cruel counsel, to / banish some of the faithful, or confine” (JD 46). 

'© Fortini, Dialoghi col Tasso 79. Sozzi defends the scene from certain reductive critical 
estimations, and does so in the name of Tasso’s mannerism and mastery of antithesis. 

'7 “But oh, what did it profit, that my heart / could now divine the danger drawing near, / 
if my tender youth in reaching a decision / was rendered so irresolute by fear? / To flee, 
naked, in self-banishment / and wander from my fatherland so dear, / saddened me so that 
it must seem less grim / to shut my eyes where I first opened them” (JD 82). 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 133 


moral order, is Armida, whose lies and fetching tears captivate the Christian 
forces (of 49 instances of “pianto,” 9 refer to Armida’s simulated tears in this 
Canto). Della Terza cites this episode as ample proof of Tasso’s inventiveness: 
“A poet who was able to invent the story of Armida’s pretended persecution by 
a non-existent uncle, as Tasso did, practically from scratch (GL IV, 43-65) could 
not be accused without contradiction of lacking the gift of a strong imaginative 
drive” (31). Tasso’s desire to encompass the whole experience of the Crusaders, 
to contain history even as he deviated from its particulars, resulted in a new 
syntax, rhetoric and style that the Florentine cruscanti resisted.'* Armida’s 
petition is denied by Goffredo, who says he cannot divide his troops until the 
city is liberated and the Holy Tomb of Christ regained; but his men persuade 
him that a small company sent to accompany Armida will not harm the cause; 
the pliability of the soldiers’ will corresponds to a vulnerability in Goffredo: 
“Ma d’altra parte in lui pietoso affetto / si desta, che non dorme in nobil petto” 
(GL IV, 65.7-8).'? As C. H. Bowra writes, “His natural courtesy and respect for 
the feelings of his officers impair his judgement and make him forget that his 
first and only task is to lead the army against Jerusalem” (157). Thus we witness 
to the Christian soldiers’ undoing, a sort of self-exile into a place of moral and 
physical paralysis. 

Just as the soldiers are trapped by the mirror of their own desire, so is the 
Petrarchan lover in the conceit of RVF 45, “Il mio adversario in cui veder 
solete,” when the Mirror counsels Laura to refuse the lover, to “exile” him: 


Per consiglio di lui, donna, m’avete 
scacciato del mio dolce albergo fora: 
misero exilio, avegna ch’i’ non fora 
d’abitar degno ove voi sola siete. 
Ma s’io v’era con saldi chiovi fisso, 
non devea specchio farvi per mio danno, 
a voi stessa piacendo, aspra et superba. 
(RVF 45, 4-11)” 





'8 About Tasso’s novelty in this regard, see Barilli, “Il Tasso, nello stendere il suo poema, 
é ossessionato dal problema della realta, della verosimiglianza, e sta proprio in cid il suo 
dolorso approdo al continente del moderno. Egli conduce in ritardo quell’ unificazione 
dello spazio e dell’agire che i pittori della grande generazione di Raffaello avevano gia 
attuato, ma non i narratori correspondenti, a cominciare dall’ Ariosto [...]” (21). 

19 “but there stirred in him from another part, / pity which never sleeps in the gentle 
heart” (JD 85). 

20 “On his advice, my Lady, from my sweet / Abode you drove me forth, sent me away / 
A wretched exile, since I was unfit / To sojourn where you now abide alone. / But if there 
I were fixed with massive nails, / You’d need no glass to make you haughty, stern / To 
my undoing while you please yourself” (PS, 83). 


134 Thomas E. Peterson 


Such narcissism marks the initial stage of a moral situation, in which, 
according to Santagata, “l’essere scacciati dal cuore dell’amata é come essere 
banditi dalla propria patria [...]” (Canzoniere 237n7). This is evident in the 
analogy between the mirror and the lady, the poet and her image, but also in the 
imagery that communicates laterally, such as the “‘saldi chiovi” of line 9 with 
their Christological and Dantean references. We are witnesses not simply to a 
sentimental state in flux, but of an acute self-consciousness and stylization of 
that condition in a way that belies any superficial interpretative formula for 
Petrarch’s lyrics. In RVF 21 the “unhappy exile” is the poet’s heart, cast away 
by him, leaving him to speculate on the error of Laura’s rejection of him and the 
unhappiness she will cause all concerned if she does not offer hospice to the 
heart. Once again the complexity of the conceit is remarkable: 


Mille fiate, o dolce mia guerrera, 

per aver co’ begli occhi vostri pace 

v aggio proferto il cor; ma voi non piace 
mirar si basso colla mente altera 


Or s’io lo scaccio, et e’ non trova in voi 
ne /'exilio infelice alcun soccorso, 
né sa star sol, né gire ov’altri il chiama, 
poria smarrire il suo natural corso: 
che grave colpa fia d’ambeduo noi, 
et tanto pit de voi, quanto piu v’ama. 
(RVF 21, 1-4, 9-14)?! 


Tasso’s borrowing of “l’exilio infelice,” in order to refer to the pagan 
heroine Erminia and her “core,” the heart separated from the body (the body 
now “free” because of Tancredi’s noble intervention), duplicates the Petrarchan 
situation and phrase: 


Venne a Gierusalemme, e quivi accolta 

fu dal tiranno del paese ebreo; 

ma tosto pianse in nere spoglie avolta 

de la sua genitrice il fato reo. 

Pur né ‘I duol che le sia per morte tolta, 

né /'essiglio infelice, unqua poteo 

l’amoroso desio sveller dal core, 

né favilla ammorzar di tanto ardore. (GL VI, 59) 


21 “<T>ve proffered you my Heart; but you despise / With your proud mind to cast your 
gaze so low; / ... / Thus, if I banish him, and he find not / In you, in his sad exile, some 
relief, / And cannot learn to live alone or go / Where others call, he’Il miss his natural 
course. / For us, what a grave error that will be, / And greater far for you, whom he loves 
more” (PS 45). 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 135 


Erminia, her heart ablaze, gazes from the battlements at Tancredi, 
feminizing the figure of the faithful lover in Petrarch. 

In Canto VII Raimondo tells Goffredo that as “head” of the Christian forces 
he should not risk himself in a duel with Argante, volunteering himself to the 
duel; the speech includes one of four references to Babel: 


In te la fé s’appoggia e *] santo impero, 
per te fia il regno di Babél distrutto. (GL VII, 62.5-6) 
Goffredo responds with a second reference: 
Oh! pur avessi fra l’etade acerba 
diece altri di valor al tuo simile, 
come ardirei vincer Babél superba 
e la Croce spiegar da Battro a Tile. 
(GL VII, 69.1-4) 


In the opening of Canto 8, Sveno’s fatal mission to the Holy Land is 
recounted by a messenger to Goffredo whose great fame is evident in the 
periphrasis: 


Egli inchinollo, e l’onorata mano 
volea baciar che fa tremar Babelle. 
(GL VIII, 5.3-4) 


As Esolen writes in a note on GL VII, 62: “Baghdad was so called 
[“Babylon”] in the Middle Ages. But Tasso’s view is eschatalogical, as he is 
thinking of the final defeat of Babylon foretold in Revelations 18.”” 

The same imagery prevails in RVF 37, a canzone rich in references to Cino 
da Pistoia, in which the lover’s “duro exilio” corresponds to the sin of accidia; 
but we also note that the secular genre of the amor de /onh is taking on sacred 
values: 


Ogni loco m’atrista ov’io non veggio 

quei begli occhi soavi 

che portaron le chiavi 

de’ miei dolci pensier, mentre a Dio piacque; 
et perché ’! duro exilio pit m’aggravi, 

s’io dormo 0 vado 0 seggio, 

altro gia mai non cheggio, 





22 “To Jerusalem she came, and was received / by the tyrant ruler of the Hebrew state. / 
But soon, enshrouded in the black of mourning, / Erminia wept her mother’s bitter fate. / 
But neither the sorrow of death nor her unhappy / exile could in the least eradicated / 
from her true hear her amorous desire, / nor could it douse one spark of such a fire” (JD, 
122). 

3 Esolen, JD, 457. The translations in this paragraph are from Esolen, JD, 146, 147, 160. 


136 Thomas E. Peterson 


et cid ch’i’ vidi dopo lor mi spiacque. 
(RVF 37, 33-40)" 


Though the lover’s capacity to fully recognize his condition is only at an 
incipient stage, his “exile” is presented as an opportunity for growth, its ultimate 
cause not being Laura’s cruelty but God’s will. RVF 80 is a sestina on a 
religious theme, remarkable because the tradition and Petrarch himself had 
limited that genre to an amorous subject matter: 


S’io esca vivo de’ dubbiosi scogli, 
et arrive il mio exilio ad un bel fine, 
ch’i’ sarei vago di voltar la vela, 
et l’anchore gittar in qualche porto! 
Se non ch’i’ ardo come acceso legno, 
si m’é duro a lassar |’ usata vita. 
(RVF 80, 31-36)” 


The fire and water metaphors speak to an arch-symbol of both the RVF and 
GL. We contend that in either work the passions of the flesh associated with fire 
and ice, tears and ardor, have their ultimate significance as signs of contrition 
and joy, the inner flame and the solace of being at one with God. As Pozzi 
writes, “l’accensione del fuoco interno é opera a sua volta delle lacrime” (183).”° 
Since we have mentioned Cino da Pistoia, it is opportune to cite in this context 
the conclusion of Petrarch’s sonnet on his death in 1336-37: 


Pianga Pistoia, e i citadin perversi 


*4 “Fach place I fail to see those lovely eyes / So gentle, I grow sad; / They bore with 
them the keys / Of all my sweetest thoughts, while it pleased God. / And since hard exile 
grieves me much, though I / May sleep, or pace, or sit, / I'll beg not other eyes; / Since 
hers, all eyes I’ve looked upon displease” (PS 73). 

*5 “If living, I escape those doubtful shoals, / And if my exile comes to a fair end, / How 
happy I should be to furl the sail / And then let down my anchor in some port! / Unless I 
burn as does a flaming craft, / I find it hard to leave my wonted life” (PS 131). 

7° I cite the broader context of Pozzi’s remarks in which he discusses “l’elaborazione 
teorica che la spiritualita medievale aveva sviluppato intorno al motivo delle lacrime 
bibliche,” citing Augustine--“Le lacrime scorrono nelle Confessioni”—and Gregorio 
Magno’s Dialoghi, in which the figure of Axa knows two types of weeping—“irriguum 
superius” and “irriguum inferius”: “Ma l’accensione del fuoco interno é opera a sua volta 
delle lacrime, secondo quanto insegna il libro dei Maccabei (2 Macc. 1:22): di ritorno 
dall’esilio i sacerdoti scavarono nel pozzo dove avevano nascosto il fuoco e vi trovarono 
acqua crassa; con quest’acqua aspersero la legna pronta per il sacrificio e allora “sol 
refulsit qui prius erat in nubilo et accensus est ignis magnus ita ut omnes mirarentur” 
(183-84). Tasso employs “pianto” 49 times, fully 9 of them in Canto IV, all in reference 
to the wiles of Armida. 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 137 


che perduto anno si dolce vicino; 
et rallegresi il cielo, ov’ello é gito. 
(RFV 92, 12-14)? 


Cino was the first among the poets of the preceding generation to employ 
such “Petrarchan” locutions such as “dolce morte”; here, as Santagata advises, 
the “citadin perversi” are those responsible for Cino’s exile, due to the same 
communal politics that exiled Dante and Petrarch’s father. The uniqueness of the 
death sonnet in this context pays highest respect to Cino, just as it accords value 
to the privilege of exile. Mario Luzi has written of Petrarch’s poetics of solitude 
and memory in this regard as the construction of a “personal universe”: “Nasce 
cosi quell’universo personale, non opposto ma speculare rispetto a quello 
violento e contraddittorio della comunita e della storia dove il poeta che "ha 
creato prova simultaneamente la frustrazione e il privilegio dell’esilio” (102). 

The privilege of exile is suggested two sonnets later when, though exiled 
from his lady, the lover is still able to recognize the joy of love: 


Quando giugne per gli occhi al cor profondo 
l’imagin donna, ogni altra indi si parte, 
et le vertu che l’anima comparte 
lascian le membra, quasi immobil pondo. 
Et del primo miracolo il secondo 
nasce talor, che la scacciata parte 
da se stessa fuggendo arriva in parte 
che fa vendetta e ‘I suo exilio giocondo. 
(RVF 94, 1-8)** 


Though he dwells on the particulars of the lovelorn sentiment, the pvemane 
meridiano” that had plagued him does not constitute an ultimate impediment.” 


27 “Pistoia weep—you citizens perverse— / That you have such a genial townsman lost; / 
Let Heaven, where he’s gone, be filled with joy” (PS 139). 

28 “When through my eyes into my inmost heart / There comes that ruling image, all else 
thence / Departs, and so those powers the soul bestows / Desert the limbs, as if they were 
fixed weights; / And then from that first miracle, sometimes / The next is born, because 
the banished power, / In fleeing from itself, comes to a place / That takes revenge, and 
makes its exile blithe” (PS 141). 

2° On the “demone meridiano” Pozzi writes: “Adire il Petrarca biblico comporta questo 
itinerario: ripercorrere cioé le vie collaudate dalla liturgia e dalla letteratura spirituale, 
salire dalle tracce impresse nella lettera ai concetti che informavano la sua poetica 
teologica, auscultando gli scatti di una memoria che nutriva tanto la poesia quanto 
l’anelito di perfezione cristiana. Innegabile quest’anelito in lui, nonostante l’impaccio 
dell’incontinenza, e, pitl grave, dell’accidia, vizio capitale, non gid equivalente della 
pigrizia secondo |’edulcorata versione moderna, né crisi depressiva come intendono i 
parametri laicisti, ma demonio meridiano che intorpidisce il libero arbitrio e ostacola la 


138 Thomas E. Peterson 


The next incidence of “essiglio” in the GL concerns Argillano, the 
passionate Christian soldier who is put under a spell by the fury Alecto to mount 
a mutiny; this passage has the effect of denying the prescience of the pagan 
deities and agents, as if Alecto were only capable of inciting sedition in a weak 
and sleep-starved, exile-scarred victim like Argillano, whose name speaks 
metonymically of mortal man made of clay (argilla): 


Costui pronto di man, di lingua ardito, 
impetuoso e fervido d’ingegno, 
nacque in riva del Tronto e fu nutrito 
ne le risse civil d’odio e di sdegno; 
poscia in essiglio spinto, i colli e ’! lito 
empié di sangue e depredo quel regno, 
sin che ne |’Asia a guerreggiar se ’n venne 
e per fama miglior chiaro divenne. 
(GL VII, 58)°° 


The noun “sangue” — the blood spilled in Argillano’s past (the Petrarchan 
verb “spargere” is usually used with “sangue” in Tasso) — occurs 128 times in 
the GL, 13 in end-rhyme; the verb “langue” appears 19 times, 12 in end-rhyme, 
always with “sangue.”’’ The connection we draw with Petrarch below with 
regard to this lexical and rhyme cluster — which Fortini has chosen to highlight 
in Tasso — involves the biblical agent, “angue,” and has clear sacramental 
resonances. 

Canto 9 of GL is a tour de force of violence and the stylistics of excess.*” 
Here the great Turk Solimano is introduced. This singular Sultan, whose name 
and title suggest the sun, represents an anomaly, as attested to by octaves 5-7 
(added only in 1575) which detail his history and exile, as well as his 
uncertainty about the future. The opening octaves stand in counterpoint to the 





grazia operante, perché supremo nella scala dei peccati maggiori” (152). 

°° “born on the banks of the Tronto, fed when young / with civil conflict, hatred, 
indignation, / then driven into exile, where he clung / to his old ways of blood and 
depradation, slaughtering his own country till he came / to Asia and acquired a better 
name” (JD 170). 

*! Fortini writes of Tasso’s predilection for “orrore” and “languore” as follows: “Due le 
parole tematiche della Gerusalemme: ‘orrore’ e ‘languire’. ‘Orrore’ é la paura e il 
desiderio della paura, la volutta dei fantasmi e del peccato: sono la notte, le fiamme, le 
selve, gli spazi delle caverne e dei cieli, le catastrofi naturali, le lontananze nordiche, le 
antichita di Giudea e d’Egitto. ‘Languire’ é il desiderio e la paura del desiderio, il 
serpeggiare della morte, la caducita delle giovinezze e dei fiori, la nostalgia dell’eta 
dell’oro. [...] Le passioni amorose o le diaboliche potenze che disviano i cavalieri non 
sono che l’involontaria allegoria del sogno di dolcezza o d’angoscia, di orrore o di 
languore che disvia il poeta dalla costruzione del proprio monumento epico” (21-22). 

32 See Peterson, “Tasso bellico,” for a discussion of GL IX. 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 139 


end of the canto in which the defeated hero ponders suicide before regaining his 
resolve. In the opening we hear the facts concerning Solimano’s exile, his being 
cast into another nation whence he becomes the military leader of the “popol 
misto”: 


Ma riprovata avendo in van la sorte 
e spinto a forza dal natio paese, 
ricoverd del re d’Egitto in corte [...] 
(GL IX, 5.1-3) 


The fury Alecto then masquerades as Solimano’s counselor, Araspe, 
spurring him to battle against Goffredo, “il barbaro tiranno”: 


Ardisci, ardisci; entro a i ripari suoi 
di notte opprimi il barbaro tiranno. 
Credi al tuo vecchio Araspe, il cui consiglio 
e nel regno provasti e ne l’essiglio. 
(GL IX, 10.4-8)*4 


Then Alecto changes identity again to warn the pagans’ other flank of the 
planned attack. As the battle concludes in favor of the Christians, Solimano 
witnesses Argillano’s slaying of the defenseless page Lesbino (whose purple and 
gold attire ironically suggests the Christian vestments). The Turk weeps 
profusely in pity before slaying Argillano. His scorn, like his worthiness, recall 
those of Rinaldo in retreat in GL V, 42: 


““Veggia il nemico le mie spalle, e scherna 
di novo ancora il nostro essiglio indegno, 
pur che di novo armato indi mi scerna 
turbar sua pace e ’! non mai stabil regno. 
Non cedo io, no; fia con memoria eterna 
de le mie offese eterno anco il mio sdegno. 
Risorgerdé nemico ognor pit crudo, 
cenere anco sepolto e spirto ignudo.” 
(GL Ix, 99)°° 


33 “Having thus cast the die and come up short, / and thrust by force out of his native 
land, he found himself at the Egyptian court” (JD 178). 

34 «Be bold, be bold! At night and by surprise / strike the tyrannical barbarian! / Trust 
your old friend Araspe, for you’ve found, / in exile and in rule, my counsel sound” (JD, 
179). 

35 «<1 et the foe see my shoulders, let him laugh, / mock our unworthy banishment again, / 
but he will wake to see me armed once more / to shake his peace and his unsteady reign. / 
I do not yiled, no! Everlasting hate / with everlasting memory of pain / be mine! Bury this 
flesh, let my soul go / naked—but I shall rise the crueler foe’” (JD 196). 


140 Thomas E. Peterson 


In Canto X, a concealed Solimano will hear himself and his “exile” belittled 
before Aladino by the counselor Orcano: 


‘Ma il Soldano ostinato o morto or giace, 
or pur servil catena il pié gli preme, 
o ne l’essiglio timido e fugace 
si va serbando a le miserie estreme.” 
(GL X, 47.2-5)*° 


Like the other uses of “essiglio” in the first half of the GL, this use concerns 
the pagans’ strategy: to call down the exiled rebel angels, to exile the virtuous 
Olindo and Sofronia, to deceive the Crusaders by guile, to incite a susceptible 
Argillano, and especially to introduce the great stoic character Solimano. 

A similarly negative figuration of exile has been discovered in the early 
portions the RVF, but we have also seen in them the glimmer of a moral 
corrective. The last of these early references, RVF 130, provides Tasso the 
model for Solimano’s “essiglio indegno.” Here Petrarch names the most extreme 
locales of exile, Scythia and Numidia, in what is again a Christianized form of 
the Provengal amor de lonh. The first eight lines of the sonnet overflow with 
redemptive tears. In the sextet the poet refers to the “painting” of the beloved in 
his heart, citing St. Jerome on the tenacity of Envy that pursues the sinner into 
the most remote of exiles: 


Et sol ad una imagine m/’attegno, 
che fe’ non Zeusi, 0 Prasitele, o Fidia, 
ma miglior mastro, et di piu alto ingegno. 
Qual Scithia m’assicura, 0 qual Numidia, 
s’anchor non satia del mio exilio indegno, 
cosi nascosto mi ritrova Invidia? 
(RVF 130, 9-14)?” 


Petrarch’s figure of Envy also suggests the Avignon papacy, which reaches 
the poet even in the most remote of pastoral havens. The search for safe harbor 
is the focus of the epistola metrica “Exul ab Italia,’ written in 1346, which 
delineates the features of the Vaucluse retreat as a refuge from the conflicts that 


°° “But the Sultan now lies dead for stubbornness, / or drags his legs along in a slave’s 
chain, / or flees and skulks as someone’s hanger-on, / his life saved for indignity and 
pain” (JD 206). 

37 “To just one image I pay heed, not made / By Zeuxis, Phidias, or Praxiteles, / But by a 
master greater, with more skill. / What Scythia or what Numidia / Can save me if, not 
sated yet with my / Base exile, Envy finds me hidden so?” (PS 191). Santagata, 
Canzoniere, 637, cites St. Jerome, Liber hebraicorum questionum in Genesim: “O 
multiplices et ineffabiles insidiae diaboli, sic quoque me latitantem invenit invidia.” 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 141 


rage in Italy, in particular the factionalism and contentious struggles of Naples 
and Parma: 


Hic tibi Parthenope, dulcis mihi reddita Parma, 
Quas non insidiae quatiant, nec clamor ad arma.°® 


Petrarch foresees sharing his pastoral Helicon with his old friend Philippe 
de Cabassoles, who returned to Provence in 1346, but his time there will be 
limited. The aversion to “Babylon” will grow so strong that even this Vaucluse 
paradise will be rejected, and the poet will exile to Italy. This is anticipated by 
the references in the writings to Avignon as Babylon, a theme treated in RVF 
136-38.°° Here the poet’s disdain for the Avignon papacy, a “putta sfacciata,” is 
apparent in the linguistic violence and expressionism; but it also connects 
thematically to the entire collection. In RVF 139, the narrator announces to his 
friends his desire to return to “quella valle aprica, / ove ‘I mar nostro piu la terra 
implica”; the reference is probably to his brother’s monastery at Montrieux, 
though the exilic imagery has also been interpreted in terms of an exile to Italy. 
The poet assures his friends that he has dispatched his “cor” to them; though he 
has been forced to remain in Babylon, Gherardo is in Jerusalem: “egli in 
Ierusalem, et io in Egipto” (139, 11). 

In her chapter “The Babylonian Captive,’ Marjorie O’Rourke Boyle 
explicates Petrarch’s sense of residing in an exilic age because of the papacy’s 
absence from Rome: 


For Petrarch the city [of Rome] was not vaguely or vastly sacred [...] but endowed with 
specifically Christian meaning. [...] It was thus to Christ that Petrarch looked for 
compassion on the sacred city. [...] The gross social disorder that confuted the blessed 
oracles of peace once uttered by Hebrew and Roman prophets alike now impelled him to 
compose oracles of malediction. The yokes, chains, and nets of love that bound him to 
the lady of his vernacular verse were symbols of the captivity of an entire people. His 
miserable exile from her sweet abodes was a conceit for the exile of the papacy from 
Rome. “Scattered rhymes” he titled his verse, a fitting summons to dispersed citizens.*° 


Boyle’s civic and historical integration with the religious thematics of the RVF 
is refreshing and is in contrast to what one often reads of the lover’s “yokes” or 


at Quoted by Wilkins, “Petrarch’s Exul ab Italia” (456), from Petrarch’s Poémata 
minora, ed. Domenico Rossetti, II (Milano, 1831), 60-64. Wilkins argues convincingly 
for the 1346 date. 

3° RVF 117 (“Se ’1 sasso, ond’é pit chiusa questa valle”) and 166 (“‘S’i’ fussi stato fermo 
a la spelunca”) are suggestive sonnets concerning this migration, and triangulation of 
exiles, to and from Italy, as it were, but are beyond the scope of our present discussion. 

4 Boyle 80. Boyle’s references here are to RVF 37, 37; 45, 7; 80, 32; 130, 13; 285, 5; 
3315: 


142 Thomas E. Peterson 


the reasons for his voluntary exile. 

The prose works De otio religiosorum (begun in 1347, completed in 1357) 
and De vita solitaria (mostly from 1346) mark a decisive new beginning. With 
reference to Petrarch’s new orientation, Ann Hallock judges he has 
“subordinated his earthly pursuits to his spiritual concerns and has made a 
distinct separation between the temporal and spiritual halves of his life” (291). 
Book 2 of De vita solitaria begins with a discussion of those “voluntary exiles” 
who are religious hermits and “i santi, che, condannando le citta con un esilio 
volontario, resero famosa la solitudine con la loro veneranda presenza.”*' The 
most important of these for us, because of his importance to the GL, is Peter the 
Hermit, who, according to the legend, was sent directly by Christ to the Holy 
Land. Petrarch follows the legend: 


E infatti Cristo, che gia aveva incominciato a dolersi e ad adirarsi per il fatto che la sua 
eredita fosse da tempo calpestata dai suoi e nostri nemici, non a qualcuno dei re cristiani 
che dormivano della grossa tra le piume e la porpora manifestd la sua volonta, non al 
pontefice Urbano, persona senz’altro nobile e degna di stima ma indaffarata, bensi al 
povero Pietro, che se ne stava tranquillo e solitario in pit modesto giaciglio.* 


Once in Jerusalem, having witnessed the depradation of the holy sites of 
Christendom, Peter is visited again by Christ and ordered to commence the 
Crusade. 

Peter’s importance to Tasso is stated by C. H. Bowra: “It is he who furthers 
the divine decision that Goffredo shall command the army and calls for 
obedience in words which not only echo the need for a united Christendom 
against the heathen but show the hierarchical view of society as the Church had 
always advocated it” (145). Peter belongs almost exclusively to the second, 
liberating and redemptive half of the poem. After Rinaldo’s grievous crime that 
results in his self-exile, only Peter can prophesy his return and the great feats he 
will accomplish; only Peter can communicate the Lord’s desire to Goffredo that 
Rinaldo disenchant the forest where Tancredi fell prey to horrible hallucinations. 
Once the devout Goffredo has been instructed in a dream by the ghost of dead 
French leader Ugone to free Rinaldo from his “essiglio,” Peter will make it 
possible by directing the rescue party of Carlo and Ubaldo to the Wise Man of 
Ascalon: 


*' Petrarca, Opere latine 1:383-84: “sanctis et vulgatior et notior et longior, qui urbes 
spontaneo damnantes exilio, sacra sui presentia solitudinem illustrarunt.” 

* Petrarca, Opere latine 1:458-59: “Dum enim indignari et irasci iam Cristus inciperet 
hereditatem propriam tam diu suis et nostris ab hostibus conculcari, non ulli regum 
cristianorum pingues somnos in plumis purpuraque captantium, non Romano Pontifici 
Urbano, gravi licet ornatoque viro occupato tamen, sed Petro inopi, otioso, solitario et 
humiliore grabatulo quiescenti, quid fieri vellet aperuit.” 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 143 


“E” replicogli Ugon “la via verace 
questa che tieni; indi non torcer |’orme: 
sol che richiami dal lontano essiglio 
il figliuol di Bertoldo io ti consiglio” 
(GL XIV, 12)” 


The rhyming of “essiglio” and “consiglio” in the couplet connects the 
predicates of justice and reason; the same match occurs in the poem’s final use 
of “essiglio” (and in RVF 285 below). Once Rinaldo is free, he must be educated 
to his lineage. In the Wise Man of Ascalon’s ekphrastic account of the Este 
(based on Pigna’s 1570 Histoia de’ principi d’Este), we hear of Actius I who 
was exiled, then returned, just as Rinaldo has now returned to his mission: 


Cader seco Alforisio, ire in essiglio 
Azzo si vede e ’] suo fratel con esso, 
e ritornar con l’arme e co ’! consiglio, 
dapoi che fu il tiranno erulo oppresso. 
(GL XVII, 72.1-4)" 


As we have suggested, the themes of error and errancy are mitigated in both 
the RVF and GL by those of navigation, wisdom, pilgrimage and worship, 
steeling the heart of the virtuous lover against what is below his or her true 
needs, and guiding the faithful Christians to unity. This figural reading requires 
that we plumb the depths of symbolic and religious reference. Fredi Chiappelli 
urges that we go beyond the functional traits of Tasso’s characters “on the level 
of the historical narrative”: “But this is the surface, the immediate referential 
plane. On a deeper referential level, the paradigm of machia en té psyché 
dominates the inspiration; by means of the chronicle of the Jerusalem enterprise 
the poet follows a development of moral situations, the series of internal 
experiences, which lead to the recuperation of a state of grace” (132). 

We turn now, to conclude our remarks on Petrarch’s figural and prophetic 
understanding of the Babylon/Jerusalem opposition, to the Canzone of the 
Visions (RVF 323), “Standomi un giorno solo a la fenestra.”*° In the last of six 


“3 “And Hugh replied, / You are already going the true way. / Hold to it well, and do not 
turn aside. / Only in this I counsel: be content, / recall Bertoldo’s son from banishment” 
(D272): 

“4 “A lforisius / his brother fell with him; and here you see / Actius in exile, then returning 
with / armies and counsel, when that tyranny / was overthrown” (JD, 330). It should be 
added that the two fountains found on the Islands of Fortune—including the Fountain of 
Laughter whose water is lethal (GL XIV, 74 and XV, 57)—are a direct calque from 
Petrarch (RVF 135, 77). 

“5 We note the unusual lexis and rhymes in “angue” discussed with reference to Tasso; 
see note 31 above. Here the third and final occurrence of “langue” is in rhyme with the 
hapax “angue.” In the RVF “sangue” occurs 15 times, twice in rhyme, both times with 


144 Thomas E. Peterson 


visions, a snake’s bite on the heel kills the Laura-Eurydice figure, derived from 
Ovid: 


ma le parti supreme 
eran avolte d’una nebbia oscura: 
punta poi nel tallon d’un picciol angue, 
come fior colto langue, 
lieta si dipartio, nonché secura. 
Ahi, nulla, altro che pianto, al mondo dura! 
Canzon, tu puoi ben dire: 
— Queste sei visioni al signor mio 
an fatto un dolce di morir desio.— 
(RVF 323, 67-75)*° 


Boyle’s commentary on this late poem (October, 1368) culminates her 
chapter on Petrarch’s incorporation of the Babylonian captivity of Israel into his 
lyric sequence. In this vision one has the “ecclesial bride, bitten by a snake in 
the grass, succumbed to death, just as the Church had perished in her other 
guises. [...] All of these figures Petrarch adapted from the oracles of Ezekiel, the 
prophet of the Babylonian Captivity, to symbolize the destruction of the Church 
in its repetition of Israel’s political exile” (109).*” Santagata has argued — in 
fiction and in commentary — that Petrarch’s first draft shows his desperation 
over a Laura-Eurydice who had died with a horrible finality and no rebirth. (The 
poet is depicted in // copista as downing a bottle of wine as he writes!) (// 
copista 112-15; 130-33). But in the final draft, the poet’s faith has returned: 
“Nella redazione definitiva la morte della donna ha invece |’aspetto di una morte 
santa, inscritta nell’ordine provvidenziale” (Canzoniere 1242n71). We would 
only add that the abundant tears in response to the serpent’s mortal bite (“‘Ahi, 
nulla, altro che pianto, al mondo dura!”) has Augustinean overtones. As Pozzi 
states, “Le Confessioni gli fornivano un capitolo della propria autobiografia, 
ch’egli contrassegnava col simbolo del pianto, lo stesso che riconosceva nel 
duolo del poeta e profeta Davide. [...] Il motivo della lacrime bibliche [...] era 
diventato un simbolo col quale interpretare l’esistenza umana in rapporto a Dio” 


“langue”; the one time it appears in Part II (358, 5), it concerns Christ’s death on the 
Cross. 

“© “But yet her crowning parts / We all enfolded in a mist obscure; / Then a small serpent 
pricked her heel, and as / A gathered flower wilts, / She passed not only certain, but in 
joy. /Woe! Nothing, save for tears, in this world lasts” (PS, 361, 363). 

‘7 Boyle 109. Elsewhere, Boyle writes: “This exilic age, memorialized in the apocalyptic 
literature of the priest and prophet Ezekiel and in the oracles of Deutero-Isaiah, became a 
prototype for Christian political and social bondage. It furnished Petrarch with the poetic 
and historic symbol for his own prophetic protest” (81). 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 145 


(182).** In the theological sense we are exiled from our God, on this terrene 
sphere, so that our return to God in death shall be sweet (“un dolce di morir 
desio”). Petrarch’s final two references to exile in the RVF breathe the new and 
transformed air of Part II: in the following octave the lover describes the figure 
of Laura as a Virgin Mary gazing on the dead Christ (the “caro figlio” of line 1 
being a forward reference to RVF 366, 24). The “grave exiglio” is that of a poet- 
lover now enjoying the double pity of Laura, both as sacred mother and lover: 


Né mai pietosa madre al caro figlio 
né donna accesa al suo sposo dilecto 
die’ con tanti sospir’, con tal sospetto 
in dubbio stato si fedel consiglio, 
come a me quella che ’! mio grave exiglio 
mirando dal suo eterno alto ricetto, 
spesso a me torna co |’usato affecto, 
et di doppia pietate ornata il ciglio [...]. 
(RVF 285, 1-8)” 


The final occurrence is in the plural, “bitter exiles,” a recollection of the 
poet’s migrations away from the lover. Laura is remembered in her lifetime 
through her eyes, the “fountain” of the poet’s life, when, as now in her death, the 
poet overcomes his grief by feeding on her memory: 


Solea da la fontana di mia vita 
allontanarme, et cercar terre et mari, 
non mio voler, ma mia stella seguendo; 
et sempre andai, tal Amor diemmi aita, 
in quelli exilii quanto e’ vide amari, 
di memoria et di speme il cor pascendo. 
(RVF 331, 1-6)°° 


‘8 The practice of “un masticar parole” and of “ruminare” nurture the heart more than or 
at least as much as the head. Unlike the Familiari and other prose sources in which 
biblical citations are used to “prove” assertions, those in the RVF operate by means of 
replicating the “esperienza di parola ricevuta”: “La Bibbia diventava attraverso questi usi 
liturgici esperienza di parola reinventata, cui faceva riscontro, riformulata su quel 
modello, la preghiera privata, sia orale che mentale” (182). 

4° “Never did pious mother to dear son, / Nor blushing lady to beloved spouse / With 
greater sighs and with such diffidence, / Give surer counsel in a doubtful state / Than she 
gave me, who sees my exile grave / From her eternal refuge high; to me / She oft returns 
with her accustomed care; / And has with double pity graced her brow” (PS 331). 

°° “Far distant from the fountain of my life / 1 used to wander, searching lands and seas, / 
Not my desire pursuing, but my star. / And love so helped me that I ever went / Into that 
exile (grievous as he sees) / Feeding my heart on memory and hope” (PS, 371; 373). 


146 Thomas E. Peterson 


The theme of exile is imbued with history; it is founded in memory and the 
practice of recitation. We find these words of Anna Banti concerning Manzoni 
suggestive in this regard: “[...] se c’é alta forma di memoria, questa é la storica, 
una forma quasi trascendente, che per minimi appelli e quasi segni rabdomantici 
di una trapassata realta la interpreta, la ricompone, la restituisce a una costante 
morale che dal buon senso alle passioni estreme, abbraccia le azioni e i 
sentimenti umani, in ogni tempo” (59). One hears an echo perhaps of Petrarch’s 
words to the brothers at Montrieux in De otio religiosorum: “Ora esuli dalla 
patria eterna, ‘erranti lontano da Dio, gettati fuori dal suo volto e dai suoi 
sguardi’, quale felicita cerchiamo, quale gioia sogniamo noi ‘che se ci 
ricordiamo di te, Sion, sediamo e piangiamo lungo i fiumi di Babilonia e 
appendiamo sugli amari salici le nostre cetre?”””! 


University of Georgia 


Works Cited 


Alighieri, Dante. Dante's Lyric Poetry. 2 vols. Ed. and trans. K. Foster and P. Boyde. 
Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1967. 

Auerbach, Erich. Scenes from the Drama of European Literature. New York: Meridian 
Books, 1959. 

Augustine, Saint. Confessionum libri XIII. Editit Martinus Skutella (1934). Editionem 
correctiorem curaverunt H. Juergens et W. Schaub. Stutgardiae: In aedibus B.G. 
Teubneri, 1969. 

Banti, Anna, “Manzoni e noi.” Opinioni. Milano: I] Saggiatore, 1961. 53-65. 

Barilli, Renato. “La dolorosa modernita di Torquato Tasso” Corriere della sera 
(September 10, 1995): 21. 

Boyle, Marjorie O’Rourke. Petrarch’s Genius. Pentimento and Prophecy. Berkeley: U of 
California P. 

Bowra, C. M. From Virgil to Milton. London: Macmillan, 1945. 

Brand, C. P. “Petrarch and Petrarchism in Torquato Tasso’s Lyric Poetry.” Modern 
Language Review 62 (1967): 256-66. 

Chiappelli, Fredi, “A Possible Source-Fission for Two Tasso Characters.” Stanford 
Italian Review 1.1 (1979): 121-32. 

Contini, Gianfranco, “La lingua del Petrarca.” // Trecento. Firenze: Sansoni, 1953. 93- 
120. 

Della Terza, Dante, “Tasso’s Experience of Petrarch.” Studies in the Renaissance 10 
(1963): 175-91. 


*! Petrarca, Opere latine, 1:786-87: “Nunc vero ab eterna patria exulantes et 


‘peregrinantes a Domino proiectique a facie oculorum eius,’ quam felicitatem querimus, 
quod gaudium somniamus, ‘qui si recordamur tui, Syon, inter flumina Babilonis sedemus 
et flemus inque amaris salicibus organa nostgra suspendimus’?” Petrarch cites here 2 
Cor. 5:6, Ps. 30:23 and Ps. 136:1-2. 


Out of Babylon: The Figura of Exile in Tasso and Petrarch 147 


Fortini, Franco. Dialoghi col Tasso. Torino: Bollati Boringhieri, 1999. 

Gibbons, David. “Tasso ‘Petroso’: Beyond Petrarchan and Dantean Metaphor in the 
Gerusalemme liberata.” Italian Studies 55 (2000): 83-98. 

Hallock, Ann H., “The Pre-eminent Role of Petrarch’s Babilonia.” Italica 54.1 (1977): 
290-97. 

Luzi, Mario. “Padre mite e dispotico.” Discorso naturale. Milano: Garzanti, 1984. 

Mengaldo, Pier Vincenzo. Giudizi di valore. Torino: Einaudi 1999. 

Peterson, Thomas E. “Tasso bellico.” Interpreting the Italian Renaissance. Literary 
Perspectives. Ed. A. Toscano. Filibrary Series of Forum italicum | (1991): 163-77. 

Petrarca, Franceso. Canzoniere. Ed. Marco Santagata. Milano: Mondadori, 1996. 

. Lettere disperse: varie e miscellanee. Ed. Alessandro Panchieri. Parma: 
Fondazione Pietro Bembo, 1994. 

. Opere latine. Ed. Antonietta Bufanno. Introd. Manlio Pastore Stocchi. 2 vols. 
Torino: U.T.E.T., 1975. 

. Petrarch’s Remedies for Fortune Fair and Foul. A Modern English Translation 
of De Remediis Utriusque Fortune. Commentary by Conrad H. Rawski. 3 vols. 
Bloomington: Indiana UP, 1991. 

. Petrarch’s Songbook. Rerum Vulgarium Fragmenta. Trans. James Wyatt Cook. 
Introd. Germaine Warkentin. Binghamton, NY: Medieval & Renaissance Texts & 
Studies, 1995. 

. Sine nomine. Lettere polemiche e politiche. Ed. Ugo Dotti. Roma: Laterza, 1974. 

Pozzi, Giovanni, “Petrarca, i padri e soprattutto la Bibbia,” A/ternatim. Milano: Adelphi, 
1996. 143-89. 
Santagata, Marco. // copista. Palermo: Sellerio, 2000. 

. I frammenti dell’anima. Storia e racconto nel Canzoniere di Petrarca. Bologna: 

Il Mulino, 1993. 
Scarpati, Claudio. Tasso, i classici e i moderni. Padova: Antenore, 1995. 
Sozzi, Bortolo, “Nota sull’episodio di Olindo e Sofronia.” Studi tassiani 10 (1960): 5-9. 


. Studi sul Tasso. Pisa: Nistri-Lischi, 1954. 


. “Il Tasso estimatore del Petrarca.” Studi tassiani 11 (1961): 45-48. 
Tasso, Torquato. Gerusalemme liberata. Ed. Claudio Varese and Guido Arbizzoni. 
Milano: Mursia, 1972. 
. Jerusalem Delivered. Gerusalemme liberata. Ed. and trans. Anthony M. Esolen. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 2000. 
Wilkins, Ernest H. “Petrarch’s Exul ab Italia” Speculum 38 (1963): 453-60. 
. Studies in the Life and Works of Petrarch. Cambridge, Mass: Mediaeval 
Academy of America, 1955. 


Armando Maggi 


The Skies of the Soul’s Exile: 
Devotional Language and Baroque Rhetoric 
in Guido Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 


In a perfect silence of a dark night we cannot help but walk out and climb that 
mountain there, which seems to elevate the earth up toward the sky. See, 
thousands of bright eyes stare down on us. If this night’s thick shadows weaken 
our external sight, they also render our inner eyes more alert and penetrating. In 
this visible blindness our soul longs for another and more real sky, heaven, 
God’s residence and the angels’ shelter. Whereas the sky we are contemplating 
now is a chasm of harmonious but transient forms, the other, invisible, sky is a 
superb theater of divine presences. As the earth is the center of the universe 
upon which this nocturnal spectacle unfolds its infinite gems, so is our soul the 
vantage point whence we are reminded of the majestic abode of the divinity. 
These are, in synthesis, the opening pages of Guido Casoni’s Ragionamenti 
interni, a series of seven religious meditations published in the first quarter of 
the seventeenth century according to the guidelines of Catholic Counter- 
reformation.! As we will see later, echoes from Roberto Bellarmino’s and 
Francois de Sales’s mystical texts are detectable in the Ragionamenti, whose 
seven chapters have the following titles: “Delle grandezze di Dio”; “Della 
solitudine”; “Della mutazione delle cose” (two parts); “Delle ricchezze”; “Della 
virginita”; “Della bellezza umana.” Casoni’s Ragionamenti has a distinct 
circular structure, which will become apparent at the end of this essay. Whereas 
the first section dwells on the mystical meanings of God’s creation, the last 
narrows its focus on the beauties of the author’s beloved. In particular, the first 
chapter on the infinite spaces of the sky plays a pivotal role within the entire 
Ragionamenti and lays out the essential points of the author’s devotional 


' Casoni, “Delle grandezze di Dio,” Ragionamenti interni, in Opere (1626, first edition 
1623), 240-41. Casoni was born in Serravalle (Treviso) in 1561. After his father’s death 
(around 1590), he had to take care of his family. He worked as a notary in Serravalle. 
Member of the Venetian Academy of the Unknown (Academia degli Incogniti), Casoni 
befriended Giovan Francesco Loredan and Tomaso Garzoni, the author of the Piazza 
Universale, which influenced Casoni’s first important text, De la magia d'amore (first 
edition in 1591). Casoni published Ode in 1602, a series of thirty-eight poems, and 
Emblemi politici in 1622. His collected works were printed first in 1623 and again in 
1626. Casoni also edited Tasso’s Gerusalemme liberata. He died in 1642. 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


150 Armando Maggi 


poetics.” Casoni initiates his seven-step process of self-discovery by engaging 
his soul in a dialogue on the meaning of a “bella notte sotto sereno cielo” 
(Casoni, Ragionamenti 240). 

This essay studies how, in Casoni’s devotional text, “cielo” at once signifies 
God’s presence in the creation and man’s exile from God. Paradoxically, the 
world and its imposing skies are the locus where God approaches us and 
distances himself from us. “Cielo” is indeed a complex signifier. It testifies both 
to a presence and a radical absence. 

Casoni is certainly one of the least known and most original authors of 
Italian seventeenth-century literature. As Giovanni Pozzi stresses in La parola 
dipinta, Casoni still awaits an adequate critical analysis, although he has been 
the object of some noteworthy, albeit brief, studies.’ Casoni is primarily known 
for two radically different texts, which seem the product of two distinct authors. 
In 1591, the young Casoni publishes Della magia d’amore, one of the last and 
most erudite treatises on love of the Italian Renaissance in the tradition of 
Ficino’s De amore.’ Some thirty years later, in his collection of devotional 
works (Opere: first edition 1623, second edition 1626), Casoni abjures the 
rhetoric of sixteenth-century Neoplatonism and becomes a spokesman of 
baroque devotional thought. In other words, Casoni is an author between two 
worlds and two idioms. Unlike any other Italian writer active at the turn of the 
century, Casoni testifies to the death of a glorious culture and rhetoric, the 
Renaissance, and the imposition of a new expression, the ideology of the 
Catholic Reformation. These two elements are clearly present in his Opere. 

The most famous piece in Opere is certainly La passione di Cristo, a visual 
poem divided into twelve symbolic forms, each of them synthesizing an 
essential moment of the incarnate Word’s passion: the column, two scourges, 
the cross, the hammer, three nails, the sponge, the spear, the stair, two dice.° In 
Opere (1626), La passione directly precedes Ragionamenti interni and is an 
important introduction to Casoni’s devotional poetics. Written as a visual and 
verbal spiritual exercise, La passione is a sermon that the author delivers to his 
own soul so that it may transcend the forms of the world and attain the inner 
manifestations of the Word’s biography, which was first written in heaven and 
then became visible to us through the Word’s incarnation. Of particular 
significance is Casoni’s initial statement in prose in which he opposes Christian 


? It is important to bear in mind that the Italian “cielo” or “cieli” express the English 
distinction between “sky” (or “skies”) and “heaven” (or “heavens”). 

> In La parola dipinta, Pozzi synthesizes this point as follows: “Il Casoni, autore 
fondamentale nell’affermarsi di nuove forme poetiche sull’inizio del secolo, ancora 
attende uno studio adeguato” (206). On the same issue, see Guaragnella 125. 

4 On Casoni’s use of metaphor, see Corradini. On music in De la magia d'amore, see 
Harran. 

>On La passione, see Portier; Molinari; Pozzi, La parola dipinta 206-14. 


The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 151 
truth to pagan false images: 


Simmia poeta greco formo co’ suoi versi un uovo, due ali, una scure e una siringa [...] e 
in esse verso intorno |’antiche deita favolose. Ma l’autore, levando la poesia dalle tenebre 
di queste favole e alzandola alla luce della verita, ha formato con versi gli stromenti della 
passione di Cristo.° 

(La passione 225) 


Casoni here compares La passione to the figurative poems of the Greek Simmia. 
Whereas the forms of classical poetry evoked false and depraved mythic 
narratives, Casoni’s Catholic poem manifests the world’s true forms, which 
coincide with the final moments of Christ’s biography (column, hammer, nails, 
cross, blood). Pagan myths were external reflections, visual distortions.’ The 
ancients saw their immoral myths reflected in the vault of a night sky, which 
served as a luminous tapestry of infinite and variable stories. Thanks to the 
Word’s revelation, Christians know that truth exists as an inner manifestation 


° | find Simmia’s poems in Theocriti aliorvmqve poetarvm idyllia 386-87. Simmia’s first 
poem in the form of an egg (ovum) is dedicated to Diana and relates the story of 
Mercury’s invention of music. As we read in the Homeric hymns, Hermes killed a 
tortoise, “cut off its limbs, and scooped out [its] marrow” (“To Hermes” in Hesiod. 
Homeric Hymns 41-42, 367). Then, Hermes added nine strings to the emptied shell. The 
image of the egg signifies both the birth of music and Hermes’s tortoise. Simmia explains 
that the wings do not belong to Cupid, Venus’s son, but rather to Eros who, according to 
Hesiod’s Theogony, came to be after Chaos (Simmiae Rhodii Ouum 408-09; Hesiod, 
Theogony in Hesiod. Homeric Hymns 115-20). The ax refers to Epeus who, following 
Athena’s instructions, built the Trojan horse (Simmiae Rhodii Ouum 416-17). Finally, the 
syringe is a reference to Pan (Simmiae Rhodii Ouum 426-27). My transcriptions from 
Casoni’s texts present only some basic corrections. I modify the syntax according to our 
modern style. I eliminate the Latin “h” (“huomo,” “Christo”) and correct other Latin 
graphic forms such as “ti” plus vocal (silentio, contemplatione, satiare). | maintain all 
possible phonetic variants. 

7 Let us remember, however, that in a fundamental section of La magia d’amore, which 
he wrote before turning thirty, the young Neoplatonic Casoni had praised the beauty of 
the stories deployed on the canvas of a night sky. By contemplating how the myths 
unfold in the sky, Casoni perceived the harmony that holds the universe together. See, for 
instance, how Casoni analyzes the love relationship between the planets and the signs of 
the Zodiac: “Conobbe parimente quanto amore sia tra i pianeti e i segni celesti, li quali 
albergano nel zodiaco e sono visitati uno al mese dal Sole, poiché la Luna porta 
sviscerato amore al Cancro, il quale gia morsicé Ercole nella Lerna palude. Onde mentre 
ella viene da lui gratamente accolta per darli liberale segno dell’amor suo, sparge pit 
amplamente e con maggior virtt e potere gli influssi suoi ch’in altro loco faccia, onde 
meritamente é chiamato casa della Luna. Come anco nell’istesso modo ama Mercurio la 
Vergine, che gia fu chiamata Erigone, figlia di Icario, e i Gemini Castore e Poluce, che 
tanto seppero e tanto vissero” (ch. 3, 23v). I have completed the first modern edition of 
De la magia d'amore (Palermo: Sellerio, forthcoming). 


152 Armando Maggi 


whose forms echo the moments of Christ’s sacrifice and death. In other words, 
the sky of the ancients is now an internal landscape of spiritual forms recounting 
a story of sacrifice, violence, and death. The Christian forms of truth are in fact 
forms of mourning. 

Casoni, however, underscores that our visible sky has not ceased to speak 
divine truth. In the first poetic section of La passione, whose form outlines a 
column, the poet invites his soul to weep and see the “high piety” that once 
descended from heaven (cie/o) and was later offended by our human impiety: 


Alma pietosa lagrimando mira 
alta Pieta dal ciel discesa, 
da impieta terrena offesa. 
Vedi lacero i! Pio, 
uomo innocente e Dio. 
Deh, contempla e rimira 
la colonna che il ciel sostiene 
tutta pene e di sangue tinta. 
(La passione 1-8, 227) 


The Word, says Casoni, came down from heaven (il cielo) and as a column still 
sustains the heaven and connects it to the earth’s destiny. The Word, who keeps 
the heaven as a mantle, is now bloodstained: 


Mira, mira dolente 


Lui, che ha il cielo per manto, 
addobato di sangue; 
Lui, che da moto al cielo, 
Ora immoto e legato. 
(La passione 10; 18-22, 227) 


How does our visible sky manifest the Word’s wounded being? The 
contamination between “cielo” as sky and “cielo” as heaven seems to allude to a 
biographical mark within the creation itself, as if the creation retained and 
manifested the existence of the incarnate Word, as if our visible firmament were 
in fact the mantle of the crucified Son. What is the relationship, if any, between 
“cielo” as heaven and “cielo” as sky? And what is the meaning of a heaven/sky 
stained with the Word’s blood? One could simply dismiss these questions by 
saying that the visible “cielo” is a metaphor of the other, superior and invisible 
“cielo.” The two skies are certainly linked to one another through some sort of 
similitude; namely, we imagine that heaven is somehow like the firmament, but 
a merely metaphorical association misses the historical mark of the Word’s 
bleeding body, which is somehow inscribed in our visible heaven. 

In book twelve of the Confessions, a dense analysis of the creation 


The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 153 


according to Genesis, Augustine, commenting on Psalm 115:16, had asked 
himself the same question: 


Sed ubi est coelum coeli, Domine, de quo audivimus in voce Psalmi: Coelum coeli 
Domino; terram autem dedit filiis hominum (Psal. CXIII, 16)? Ubi est coelum quod 
cernimus, cui terra est hoc omne quod cernimus? [...] sed ad illud coelum coeli, etiam 
terrae nostrae coelum terra est. Et hoc utrumque magnum corpus non absurde terra est, ad 
illud nescio quale coelum quod Domino est, non filiis hominum. Et nimirum haec terra 
erat invisibilis et incomposita, et nescio quae profunditas abyssi super quam non erat lux 
[...]. Super itaque erant tenebrae, quia lux super aberat [...]. 
([...] where is that Heaven of Heavens, O Lord, which we hear of in the words of the 
psalmist: The heaven of heavens is the Lord’s; but the earth hath he given to the children 
of men. Where art thou, O heaven, which we see not? [...] In comparison of that Heaven 
of Heavens, even the heaven of this our earth is but earth: yea, both these great bodies 
may not absurdly be called earth, in comparison of that I know not what manner of 
heaven, which is the Lord’s, and not given to the sons of men. And now was this earth 
invisible and without form, and there was, I know not what profoundness of the deep, 
upon which there was no light [...]. Darkness therefore was all over hitherto, because 
light was not upon it [...].) 

(Confessions, vol. 2, bk. 12, ch. 2, 289-91; ch. 3, 291) 


In the beginning, Augustine writes, was darkness and absence of form. Invisible 
and formless (“informe”), the real was a profoundness of the deep (“profunditas 
abyssi”). God granted form as light. During the third day of the creation, the 
Lord gave a “visible figure” (“speciem visibilem”) both to the earth and “the 
heaven to this earth” (“coelum terrae”). As we read in Genesis, “Dixit autem 
Deus: Fiant luminaria in firmamento caeli, et dividant diem ac noctem [...] ut 
luceant in firmamento caeli, et illuminent terram” (“God said, ‘Let there be 
lights in the vault of heaven to divide day from night. [...] Let them be lights in 
the vault of heaven to shine on the earth’” (Gen. 1:14-15). God made the 
“figure” of the firmament to limit the profoundness of the deep, which was the 
creation. The creation was and is an abyss. The “figure” of the sky works both 
as a limit to the abyss (the vault that divides day from night) and a reminder of 
that very abyss. The firmament sheds light over the profoundness of the creation 
and thus contains it, limits it. However, Augustine also remarks that God used 
the same word “coelum” both for the firmament (“firmamentum vocasti 
coelum”) and the “heaven of heavens” (“coelum coeli”), which he had created 
before creating the world (Confessions, vol. 2, bk. 12, ch. 8, 301). By using the same 
word, God alluded to some similarity between our visible heaven and his heaven 
of heavens. The expression “heaven of heavens” itself sounds like an echo, a 
reminder. We could read the word “heaven” as an index, that is, a mark of 
remembrance, just as a hole in a wall may signify that someone shot a bullet in 


154 Armando Maggi 


the past.® 

We have seen that Ragionamenti interni, which in Opere directly follows 
La passione, opens with the description of a starry sky during a night walk up 
the slopes of a mountain. Reminiscent of Petrarch’s famous letter on his ascent 
of Mount Ventoux (Rerum familiarum libri, 4.1), the first section of Casoni’s 
volume by the title “Delle grandezze di Dio” begins with a meditation on the 
central divergence between outer and inner sight. While he is admiring the 
beauty of the night sky, Casoni is reminded of what Augustine calls “heaven of 
heavens”: 


Vagheggio il cielo, sede di Dio, musico canoro delle sue grandezze, albergo de gli angeli, 
stanza de’ beati, purissima regione tutta stelleggiata di lumi, palchi divini adorni di rose 
d’oro, piagge beate, ove i ruscelli della gloria con dolce mormorio spiegano le lodi del 
Creatore; e veggio ch’egli infaticabile nel continuo girarsi, inquieto senza fine di quiete, 
ha l’essere senza nodrimento, il corpo senza compositione, il moto senza stanchezza, e 
simile a se stesso in ogni sua parte non é generabile e pure ha parte nella generatione 
delle cose inferiori, é semplice e nondimeno co’! suo moto é operatore dei misti, contiene 
in se il tutto. 

(Ragionamenti 243) 


By looking at the stars, the author embarks on an imaginary description of the 
heaven of heavens divided into two subsequent rhetorical phases. Casoni first 
imagines (“vagheggio”) a sort of luxurious baroque landscape, made of 
comforting interiors (“albergo de gli angeli,’ “stanza de’ beati”) and a 
sumptuous nature (“palchi divini,” “piagge beate,’ “ruscelli della gloria’). 
Casoni finally concludes with a theoretical definition of the divinity, who at 
once inhabits the heaven of heavens and identifies with it. The above passage 
from the first chapter of the Ragionamenti thus details a three-part metaphorical 
expression, which Giovanni Pozzi explains as follows: 


Nella metafora il significante [...] che funge da figurante, evoca in toto, oltre il figurato, 
anche il significato [...] che gli é connesso, comprendendovi pure quegli elementi che non 
sono comunicabili all’altro termine dell’analogia [...]. Cosi avviene perché gli effetti del 
senso letterale prodotti dal figurante non sono esclusi dal processo che permette la 
riunione dei due significati in un solo significante. 

(La rosa 15) 


8 Philosophical Writings of Peirce: “An index is a sign which would, at once, lose the 
character which makes it a sign if its object were removed, but would not lose that 
character if there were no interpretant. Such, for instance, is a piece of mould with a 
bullet-hole in it as a sign of a shot [...] An index is a sign which refers to its object not so 
much because of any similarity or analogy with it [...] as because it is in dynamical 
(including spatial) connection both with the individual object, on the one hand, and with 
the senses or memory of the person for whom it serves as a sign (104 and 107). 


The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 155 


Let us apply Pozzi’s analysis to Casoni’s Ragionamenti. A night sky (figurante) 
helps us imagine the heaven of heavens (figurato), whose meaning is God. 
These two distinct facets (“figurato” and “significato,” in Pozzi’s words) are 
contained in a visual and verbal signifier (the word “cielo” and the actual night 
sky). Language and nature have an intrinsically metaphorical character, which 
may trigger a chain of rhetorical procedures. To meditate upon a night sky 
means to bring to the fore its potential linguistic senses. It is almost superfluous 
to point out that, in this three-phase rhetorical process (reality spurs an act of the 
imagination, which ends in an intellectual and spiritual insight), Casoni 
formulates a form of literary meditation akin to Saint Ignatius’s spiritual 
exercises. Starting off from a given signifier (the stars in the sky, a passage from 
the scriptures), one goes on to explore its infinite visual similes (from sky to 
heaven of heavens, from a biblical episode to its echoes in our biography). This 
process of rhetorical expansion leads to a cathartic perception of the truth on 
which both the signifier and its similes are founded.” 

We have said that the opening chapter of Ragionamenti interni 
certainly alludes to Petrarch’s well-known epistle on Mount Ventoux. The two 
texts, however, present differences of great relevance. Whereas Petrarch travels 
with his younger brother and two servants in the morning, Casoni comes out at 
night alone in an undefined landscape dominated by the imposing vision of the 
sky. More importantly, in Petrarch’s account, the slow and difficult ascension 
results more enlightening than the vision from the mountain itself. In fact, once 
he reaches the peak, Petrarch stands there like a dazed person. Rather than 
rejoicing in his accomplishment, he recalls that, in book ten of the Confessions, 
Augustine had criticized those who “eunt [...] mirari alta montium, et ingentes 
fluctus maris [...] et gyros siderum, et relinquunt se ipsos [...]” (“go abroad to 
wonder at the heights of mountains, the lofty billows of the sea [...] and the 
circular motions of the stars, and yet pass themselves by [...]” (Confessions, bk. 
10, ch. 8, 99-101). Ashamed of himself, Petrarch descends from the mountain in 
silence. The lesson he has learned from his ascension is the refusal of the 
ascension itself. True spiritual enlightenment can only occur in the blindness of 


” In the Spiritual Exercises, Ignatius dedicates the first day of the second week to the 
mystery of the Word’s incarnation. This meditation, which is performed at midnight, 
regards the visualization of “the Three Divine Persons, seated, so to speak, on the royal 
throne of their divine Majesty. They are gazing on the whole face and circuit of the earth; 
and they see all the peoples in such great blindness, and how they are dying and going 
down to hell” (Spiritual Exercises and Selected Works 149). At the beginning of each 
contemplation, a “prelude” stresses the historical aspect of this particular visualization. 
Ignatius writes: “The First Prelude is to survey the history of the matter I am to 
contemplate. Here is how the Three Divine Persons gazed on the whole surface or circuit 
of the world, full of people” (148). 


156 Armando Maggi 


one’s soul.'° 

In the baroque Ragionamenti, on the other hand, the imposing beauties of a 
night landscape are the very source of the traveler’s enlightenment. We have 
seen that Casoni’s spiritual process of rhetorical purification is based on three 
basic moments, whose conclusion sees the soul arise to a mystical insight on 
divine being: 


[...] se t’alzerai, anima mia, sopra te stessa e sopra la natura umana, fatta quasi simile a 
gli angeli, ti nodrirai di contemplare Dio, e nella contemplatione d’amarlo goderai in terra 
una certa sembianza del Paradiso. Cosi la mente angelica adorna della bellezza ideale, fu 
da gli antichi detta paradiso e Zoroastre invitando |’anima a sublimarsi co’! mezo della 
contemplatione alla divina bellezza, esclama, cerca il Paradiso e altrove, estendi gli occhi, 
e dricciali in su. 

(Ragionamenti 246) 


Reminiscent of his past Neoplatonic formation, Casoni contaminates baroque 
devotional culture with a reference to sixteenth-century hermetic tradition, 
whose insistence on the mind’s solipsistic enlightenment seems similar to 
Casoni’s solitary nocturnal musings.'’ But the connection with Renaissance 
Neoplatonism is here merely rhetorical. Both traditions speak of some spiritual 
rapture, but their modalities are deeply different. In fact, the above passage and 
the whole first chapter of Ragionamenti must be read in the light of basic tenets 
of seventeenth-century Catholic mysticism. 

A first plausible reference is to Roberto Bellarmino’s De ascensione mentis 
in Deum (“The Mind’s Ascent to God”), first published in Latin in 1615.’ 
Written in the tradition of Bonaventure and John Climacus, this treatise became 
an instant success, with five Latin editions in the first year of publication plus an 
Italian translation by Angelo della Ciana, Bellarmino’s nephew. The Jesuit 
Bellarmino (1542-1621), whose influential catechism Dottrina cristiana breve 
was used by Jesuit missionaries for more than three centuries, is a key figure of 
seventeenth-century Catholic culture. Bellarmino’s religious treatises exerted a 
decisive influence on the seventeenth-century Jesuit Daniello Bartoli, author, 
among other texts, of the important La ricreazione del savio and L’uomo di 


'° The Dominican Ignazio Del Nente, one of the most interesting figures of seventeenth- 
century Italian spirituality, discusses this point in his fascinating Eremo interno del cuore, 
a dialogue between Jesus and the soul. For instance: “Quando dunque tu vuoi adorare Dio 
in spirito e verita, non é necessario che ti rivolga col pensiero sopra le stelle, o sopra i 
cieli, ma basta che ti raccolga nel tuo interno e nella cella del tuo cuore” (110). 

'' Patrizi, Magia philosophica, hoc est Zoroaster et eius 320 oracula chaldaica: “Oportet 
te festinare ad lucem et patris lumina” (40r); “Ducat animae profunditas immortalis, 
oculosque affatim. Omnes sursum extende” (4Ir). 

'2 On Bellarmino's De ascensione, see Gentili and Ragazzoni 326-27. The authors define 
this treatise as “un autentico gioiello della letteratura ascetica” (326). 








The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 157 


lettere. Divided into fifteen steps, De ascensione opens with an analysis of the 
relationship between the soul and the divinity. Our ascent to the divinity can 
only start, Bellarmino states in the fourth section of step one, with the essential 
realization that our soul is in fact an image of God: “Lift up your mind, my soul, 
to your exemplar and consider that the whole excellence of an image lies in its 
similarity to its exemplar.””* 

Just as the soul is an image of a divine exemplar, so does the creation mirror 
God’s incommensurable greatness, which is the topic of the second step of 
Bellarmino’s De ascensione. Similar to Casoni’s first meditation (“Delle 
grandezze di Dio”), this section of Bellarmino’s treatise opens with a contrast 
between the earth and the sky: “What, I ask, is the size of the earth in 
comparison with the vastness of the heaven above? [...] Who can grasp in 
thought the size of the heavens where so many thousands of stars shine?” 
(Bellarmino, The Mind’s Ascent 67; De ascensione 21). Although the earth is 
nothing but a grain of sand in comparison to the vastness of the heavens, both 
Bellarmino and Casoni underscore that, just as our soul is an image of the 
divinity’s infinite greatness, so too does the earth reflect the vast beauty of the 
heavens. Quoting from Psalm 115:16, which we have already found in a passage 
from Augustine’s Confessions, Bellarmino states: “Throughout the Holy 
Scriptures we read that God made the heavens and the earth as the principal 
parts of the world [...]. ‘The heaven of heaven is for God,’ says the Prophet, ‘but 
the earth he gave to the sons of men.’ This is the reason why heaven is full of 
glittering stars and the earth abounds with the immense riches of metals, 
precious stones, grasses, trees, and many kinds of animals” (Bellarmino, The 
Mind’s Ascent 77; De ascensione 39-40).'* Casoni formulates this point as 
follows: 


[...] vedo questa machina grande della terra essere centro de’ cieli, base del mondo, vaso 
del mare, genitrice de’ frutti, vestita d’erbe e trappunta di fiori, nodrice de gli animali e 
patria dell’uomo [...]. Diviso meco in qual maniera i vegetabili con odorato parto de’ 
fiori, fatti ricchi di fronde e abondanti di frutti, servono all’uomo non meno di vaghezza 


'3 Bellarmino, De ascensione 10: “Erige nunc, anima mea, mentem ad exemplar tuum, et 
cogita, omne bonum imaginis in similitudine ad exemplar suum positum esse” (The 
Mind's Ascent to God, in Spiritual Writings 60). Like Bellarmino, in the first part of 
“Delle grandezze di Dio” Casoni speaks of the human being as a microcosm made in the 
image of God: “Ammiro la gloriosa fattura delle mani divine, la nobilissima creatura 
dell’uomo, imagine di Dio, illuminato dalla ragione, nuovo mondo al mondo, onore della 
natura, nodo ch’unisce il mortale con l’immortale, re delle cose inferiori” (Ragionamenti 
242-43). 

'4 Bellarmino dwells on the infinite wealth of the earth in step two, chapter 3: “How 
much variety there is in the individual grain, plants, flowers, and fruits! Do not their 
shapes, colors, odors, and tastes differ in almost infinite ways? Is this not equally true 
among the animals?” (The Mind’s Ascent 70; De ascensione 27). 


158 Armando Maggi 


che d’alimento. Considero la varieta de gli animali, albergatori della terra, abitatori 
dell’acque e cittadini dell’ aria. 
(Ragionamenti 241-42) 


God, we could say, envisioned his creation as a set of perfect reflections. Since 
the creatures, as Bellarmino and Casoni insist, are mirrors of a divine exemplar, 
so too the earth and the sky reflect God’s heaven of heavens.’° In other words, 
the creation manifests God’s existence and his presence. God lives in and 
around his creatures. It is now evident that a night ascent of a mountain that 
seems to touch the heavens is similar to the soul’s ascent toward the divinity.'® 
In chapter four of step seven, which is a meditation “on the heavens, sun, moon, 
and stars,” Bellarmino writes: “I now come to nighttime, when the heavens 
through the moon and the stars provide us a step for climbing to God.”"” 

But the above harmonious reflection among similes (earth, soul, sky, and 
heavens) is predicated upon an essential paradox. Both Bellarmino and Casoni 
reiterate that human beings are pilgrims on earth, for this world is the place of 
their exile from the divinity (Bellarmino, De ascensione 28). In Casoni’s words, 
the creation is at once the “orma” (mark, sign) of its Creator and the 
“illusione” (illusion) that prevents us from ascending to the divinity: “[...] questa 
vita mortale é un lampo che svanisce e un’aura che fugge [...] altro non é che 
sogno” (Casoni, Ragionamenti 253). I have already explained that in Casoni’s 
baroque religiosity “cielo” works as an index, as a sign of absence and 
remembrance. “Cielo” is a figure or image (the firmament) that in fact hides a 
withdrawn presence (the divinity and his heaven of heavens). “Cielo,” we could 
say, is a visible figure of speech based on dissimulation, because its beautiful 
appearance in fact hides a divine absence.'® The act of contemplating a night sky 


'S Casoni, Ragionamenti 253: “[...] nel mondo le creature sono specchio di Dio, e nel 
cielo sara Dio specchio delle creature.” 

'© In Eremo interno, Del Nente writes a marvelous chapter on the “solitudo montis,” 
where he describes how Jesus invites the soul to ascend to a solitary mountain: “To ti 
chiamo, 0 mia cara e redenta, alla solitudine d’un monte alpestre nel quale non si vedono 
mai orme né di uomo né di donna, accid viva in questo mondo sola a me, e non vegga 
altro bene in tutta la tua vita che il cielo e Dio” (67). 

'7 Bellarmino, De ascensione 108 and 118; The Mind’s Ascent 125. Bartoli, Dell’huomo 
di lettere, pt. 1, ch. 2, likens the sky to a text written in a secret language. Only a wise and 
pious intellectual can decode its message: “Tutti mirano il cielo, ma non tutti l’intendono: 
e v’é fra chi l’intende e chi no quel divario che corre fra due de’ quali l’uno d’una 
scrittura arabica tratteggiata d’oro e miniata d’azzurro altro non vede che il lavorio di ben 
composti caratteri, l’altro di pil’ ne legge i periodi e ne intende i sensi” (10). Bartoli also 
echoes Bellarmino’s analysis of the heavens in La ricreazione del savio (bk. 1, ch. 9, 
152-75). 

'8 Accetto writes inspired pages on this subject in Della dissimulazione onesta: “[...] tutto 
il bello non é altro che una gentil dissimulazione [...]. Giova [...] una certa dissimulazione 








The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 159 
thus summons a form of intellectual blindness, a sense of inner obscurity: 


O anima contemplatrice, vedi com’egli [Dio], non essendo natura intellettuale né 
intelligente, supera ogni intelligenza e eccede ogni cognizione, si come la tua cognizione 
resta adombrata e’] tuo discorso offuscato, mentre sollevi te stessa ad una nobile 
meraviglia. 

(Casoni, Ragionamenti 250) 


The soul’s beclouded discourse (“discorso offuscato”), its shadowy knowledge 
(“cognizione adombrata”) is the clearest insight granted to the soul. A pleasant 
feeling of sleepiness and fatigue accompanies this conclusive awareness. The 
night wanderer is ready to go back home and rest: 


Ma gia il sonno, misteriosa imagine della morte, pace dell’animo, alta quiete della viata 

umana, scherzando tra |’ombre dense della notte profonda, m’invita a scendere a piedi del 

monte per ritornare alla stanza che posta nel pill vicino colle mi s’é preparata al riposo. 
(Casoni, Ragionamenti 253) 


Sleep signifies that the soul has exhausted its linguistic potentials, that its 
attempt to respond to the divinity’s absence through reasoning has come to a 
conclusion. Being a form of prayer, this night ascent can only end with a sense 
of calm suspension, of hopeful expectation. As some critics have pointed out, 
Casoni’s texts seem to echo Francois de Sales’s mystical views (Pozzi, La parola 
dipinta 214; Guaragnella 176-77). In Traité de |’amour de Dieu (first edition 1616), 
Francois de Sales (1567-1622) distinguishes between meditation and 
contemplation. Meditation, says the French mystic, is the mother of love, 
whereas contemplation is her child (Oeuvres, bk. 6, ch. 3a, 617). If meditation is a 
synonym for prayer (the night ascent of a mountain, the vision of a night sky), 
contemplation makes the soul curl up like a flower exposed to the sun’s rays 
(Traité de l'amour de Dieu bk. 6, ch. 7a, 631). In this condition of pleasant solitude, 
the soul rests as if it were asleep (Traité de l’amour de Dieu, bk. 6, ch. 8, 632-35).” 





della natura, per quanto si contiene tra lo spazio degli elementi, dov’é molto vera quella 
proposizione che afferma di non esser tutt’oro quello che luce; ma cid che luce nel Cielo 
ben corrisponde sempre” (ch. 9, 31-32). Dissimulation, Accetto holds, will come to an 
end when “la verita stessa aprira le finestre del Cielo” (ch. 23, 64). 

'? Francois rephrases this concept in a letter written on January 16, 1610: “Staying in 
God’s presence and placing ourselves in God’s presence are, to my mind, two different 
things. In order to place ourselves in His presence, we have to withdraw our soul from 
every other object and make it attentive to that presence at this very moment [...]. But 
once we are there, we remain there, as long as either our intellect or our will is active in 
regard of God [...]. For my part, I think we remain in God’s presence even while we are 
asleep, because we fall asleep in His sight, as He pleases, and according to His will, and 
He puts us down on our bed like a statue in its niche” (Francis de Sales, Jane de Chantal, 
Letters of Spiritual Directions 151-53). 


160 Armando Maggi 


What is the meaning of this form of contemplation? The night wanderer 
perceives his exile from the divinity as an essential part of the creation itself. 
God resides both in the firmament and in the human race’s exile from Him. 
Exile is the core of the wanderer’s existence. This paradoxical awareness 
follows the wanderer from the slopes of the mountain back to his solitary room, 
where he will spend the rest of the night. 

However, as Bellarmino underscores in the seventh step of De ascensione 
mentis, “[t]here are two times — day and night — by which we ascend from 
heaven to God on the wings of contemplation” (Bellarmino, The Mind’s Ascent 
119; De ascensione 109). One is the “harmony of the stars,” the other is the sun 
as “the dwelling place of God.” Both skies are equal sources of contemplation. 
If a night sky compels us to look upwards, the sun’s light invites us to turn our 
gaze downwards at the earth’ beauty. I have already stressed that, according to 
Casoni, a sense of mirroring in fact exists between sky and earth. In the second 
chapter of Ragionamenti interni (“Della solitudine”), Casoni walks back to the 
anonymous mountain in the morning and contemplates the nature that lies 
hidden in the shadows of the night. This new section opens as follows: 


Io pure a passo lento, involto in placidi pensieri sono giunto al tuo piede, o verdeggiante 
Sentino, che sorgendo sovra le nubi pretendi quasi con la cima di baciare il cielo. Ma 
poiché t’avvedi essere un picciolo granello d’arena rispetto alla di lui inaccessibile 
altezza, negletto ti stilli per dolore in lagrime interne, le quali, dalle caverne del tuo seno 
gocciolando, a’ tuoi piedi formano questo fonte, il quale [...] manda fuori l’acque limpide 
e chiare che [...] scorrono in grembo al lago vicino, ove il fiume mischiando le sue con 
l’acque di lui esce pit’ copioso d’onde e acquista il nome di Mischio. 

(Casoni, Ragionamenti 255) 


In the first chapter of Ragionamenti, the mountain had no name because the 
focus of the wanderer’s gaze was on the firmament and the earth was deprived 
of light. In this new section, Casoni enlightens the previously dark landscape 
with a biographical connotation. We now learn that his Ragionamenti are taking 
place in his native town of Serravalle, at the feet of the mount Sentino, from 
which springs the river Mischio.”° 

Echoing the first sentence of “Delle grandezze di Dio,” this new description 


° Casoni mentions the mountain Sentino and the river Mischio in other texts. In De /a 
magia d'amore, he speaks of the “lucide onde del Mischio” and the “ninfe del famoso 
Sentino” (8r). Casoni also dedicates an entire poem to the Mischio in Ode 69-73. The 
introductory note explains: “II fiume Mischio, detto da’ poeti latini Mesulus [...] scorre 
con placido corso per Serravalle, patria dell’autore, e ¢ celebrato da Marc’ Antonio 
Flaminio, poeta serravallese [...] e da Nicold Rinucci” (69). The second stanza states: “Tu 
da gemino fonte,/ a pié del gran Sentino / negli alti gioghi suoi fiorito monte,/ sorgendo 
cristallino,/ con graziosi errori / nutri novello Eurota eterni allori” (70). Casoni praises the 
beauty of the Mischio in Emblemi politici (42). 











The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 161 


of a morning walk reiterates that the Sentino is a mountain that leads man’s gaze 
up to the sky. As in La passione di Cristo the figure of a column unites the earth 
with the heavens, so does mount Sentino manifest that a mystical connection 
exists between the earth and the abyss of the skies. In this second chapter on 
solitude, Casoni makes the Sentino into a metaphor for a contrite Catholic who, 
by shedding tears of deep regret, gives life to the Mischio, the river of the town 
of Serravalle. In other words, the wanderer’s exile and isolation from the 
divinity is here a universal awareness and concern. Mount Sentino is also the 
column on which the incarnate Word was flogged and through which we can 
ascend from our earthly condition to the heavens. The creation is marked with 
the memory of the Word’s passion and death. 

Casoni also underscores that the tears of the Sentino are a spring that 
enlivens this peaceful landscape. As in chapter one Casoni had acquired a sense 
of inner peace by fathoming and embracing his radical exile from the Creator, so 
do the tears of the Sentino make the countryside a place for inner understanding 
and acceptance. Metaphorically speaking, Casoni states that this landscape 
makes him appreciate “la soavita che distilla dal dolcissimo fonte della vita 
solitaria” (Casoni, Ragionamenti 256). 

Let us summarize Casoni’s complex series of metaphorical 
transliterations. Mount Sentino is like a human being that has perceived his or 
her personal responsibility for the Word’s sacrifice. By mourning the Word’s 
death, the mountain manifests tears of repentance which fructify in an outer 
landscape, which is like the inner landscape of a soul that has devoted itself to 
solitude. Casoni phrases this point as follows: 


O solitudine[...] instromento per fabbricare nell’anima un paradiso, scala per ascendere al 
cielo, tu fai che l’uomo fugge la compagnia de gli altri uomini per avere la conversatione 
de gli angeli [...] giace tra l’erbe per sollevarsi tra le stelle; riposa all’ombra per fruire la 
luce dell’eterno sole. Sono gli antri i suoi palagi, le fronde i suoi riposi, le foreste i suoi 
giardini. Osserva la velocita del vento come figura della vita nostra fugace. 

(Casoni, Ragionamenti 257) 


Solitude is thus the condition that makes visible the reflection between earth and 
sky, between outer and inner landscape, between the event of the Word’s 
suffering and death, and our exile and atonement.”' Solitude, we could say, is 
like the column of the Word’s torture and of the soul’s ascent (“O solitudine [...] 


71 Augustine, De libero arbitrio 3.5.13. Petrarca’s De otio religioso is another important 
source of Casoni’s book. I quote from: De otio religioso, in Opere latine. For Petrarca, 
the soul is exposed to infinite demonic assaults (“violenti spirituum incursus” 654), 
which shows the soul’s intrinsic nothingness (bk 1, 658). Petrarca contends that, since the 
earth is immensely distant from the sky, the soul must strive to reunite them. Only the sky 
can save the earth (“[...] fingite animis ut terra salva sit necessarium esse coelo illam 
iungi” bk. 1, 660). 


162 Armando Maggi 


scala per ascendere al cielo”). Solitude is the inner condition of a mountain 
mourning its sins and distance from the persecuted Word. 

The column of the soul’s solitude, on which the marks of the Word’s blood 
are imprinted, enables the dialogue between earth and sky, between our exile 
and divine abode. In the following chapter (“Della mutazione delle cose,” part 
one), Casoni stresses that the mutations of our visible sky remind us of the 
world’s instability and transience. In other words, the sky serves as a mirror of 
our human condition. The sky is not only a visible echo of the heaven of 
heavens (God used the word “coelum” to indicate both his dwelling and the 
firmament); it also compels us to face our impermanence: 


[...] aprendosi il cielo e lampeggiando sosteneva co i focosi baleni la vece del sole che, 
cinto da nebbia torbida e oscura, compartiva a’ mortali poca e incerta luce; fremeano i 
tuoni, uscendo dal guazzoso seno delle nubi squarciate [...]. Vedi anima mia come 
facilmente s’é cangiata la prospettiva del cielo, come repente s’é mutata questa scena del 
mondo. 

(Casoni, Ragionamenti 267) 


The sky is like an immense stage, whose “perspective” opens on mutable 
settings. The sky, we could say, gives perspective to the scenes of the world. At 
the beginning of this essay, I stated that the opposition and dialogue between 
earth and sky (“terra” and “cielo”) is an essential topos of Casoni’s poetics. In 
Ode in onor della sacratissima Sindone, the highest poetic meditation on the 
shroud of Turin ever written, Casoni contends that, by holding the marks of the 
Word’s death, the “Sindone” is the mirror of the heavens’ eternal beauties: 


O sacra spoglia, 0 prezioso velo, 
paradiso terreno, 

eletto in terra a gareggiar col cielo 
Tu sei tela celeste, alle superne 
menti pompa e tesoro, 

Specchio divino delle bellezze eterne. 
Nelle tue fila d’oro 

fa lucido riflesso 

il sol di gloria, al sol di gloria istesso. 
Cosi talora in densa nube suole 

col pennel della luce 

quasi pittor del sol ritrarsi il sole.” 


2 I find this poem at the end of Solaro’s Sindone evangelica, istorica e teologica. The 
three pages of this poem are not numbered. Solaro quotes from Casoni’s poem on pages 
31 and 34 of Sindone evangelica. On page 5, like Casoni, Solaro calls the shroud “earthly 
paradise” (paradiso terreno). Doglio mentions Casoni’s text in her detailed article 
‘“*Grandezze e meraviglie’ della Sindone nella letteratura del Seicento” (19-20). In 








The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 163 


In the shroud of Turin, the moment of the incarnate Word’s death exists as an 
everlasting remembrance of a renewed alliance between earth and heaven, as 
Paul writes in the Epistle to the Colossians (1:20). The shroud, Casoni writes, 
“competes with heaven” (gareggia col cielo) because it retains here, on earth, the 
visible sign of the Word’s human biography.”? The Word lives with the Father 
and the Holy Spirit in the heaven of heavens, but his human biography, the 
outline of his corpse, is preserved here on earth. This admirable figure, Casoni 
writes in this poem, sees even though it does not have eyes (“non ha lumi e pur 
mira’). As a relic or official statement of a new pact between earth and heaven, 
the shroud guards the dialogue between humans and the divine. 

The concept of the Word’s bloodstained corpse as a unifying image, as the 
figure of a new speech of salvation, is particularly dear to Casoni. In Teatro 
poetico, a series of brief compositions each made of two parts, a narrative prose 
and a subsequent poem often in the form of a monologue, Casoni expresses this 
point in a poem in six octaves (“La croce”’), in which he addresses the cross of 
Christ.** The first four verses of octave five read as follows: 


Cosi in mezo de I’aria in te sospeso 


seventeenth-century Italian devotional literature, the shroud of Turin expresses a cluster 
of metaphors. In the popular but not very original Esplicatione del lenzuolo ove fu involto 
il Signore, the Archbishop of Bologna Paleotti holds that the outlined body of the 
incarnate Word is a hieroglyphic text: “Vuol dunque il Salvatore col mezzo di quella 
Sindone darci ad intendere i sentimenti suoi nella maniera che scrivevano gli egizii i 
concetti loro, scolpendo o dipingendo figure d’animali diversi, ed usandole per lettere” 
(56). The shroud as mirror is a topos of the devotional literature. In the lengthy 
Ragionamenti sopra la Sacra Sindone, the Dominican Balliani writes: “[La Sindone] sara 
mirabilissimo specchio per contemplare, e contemplando conformarci alla Santissima e 
innocentissima umanita di Cristo per noi morta e sepolta” (“Ragionamento I” 39-40). The 
shroud, Balliani explains in a later chapter, is a “compendio della legge evangelica scritta 
con lettere di sangue” (“Ragionamento X” 373). 

3 Casoni must have been familiar with the poetry of the monk Angelo Grillo on the holy 
shroud. See, in particular, the opening lines of the following poem: “Né stelle in ciel 
d’immortal lume accese / si miran mai con si benigno aspetto / quando talor qualche 
felice effetto / producon I’alte e generose imprese,/ come nel sacro LIN I’opposte e stese / 
figure sante con perpetuo affetto / si miran, e n’avien ch’empian difetto / d’alma contrita, 
e spengan !’alte offese/ [...]/ E non é lino il sacro LIN, ma il cielo/ che, benché nebbia il 
renda fosco, e ’! viso / gli copra d’atro e sanguinoso velo” (Grillo, “Delle rime,” in Rime 
di diversi celebri poeti 91). In Dicerie sacre, Marino calls the shroud “un Cielo”: “Dird 
che tu sia un Cielo [...]. Chi vuol vedere il cerchio del Sole, miri quella corona di spine: 
chi vuol vedere la meza Luna, miri |’apertura di quel costato” (part one, chapter three, 
182). 

4 The main topic of Teatro poetico is love’s contradictory forms: “Amore, che nato co ’! 
natale del mondo [...] sparge co ’1 volo dell’ali sue porporine vari influssi” (Opere 172). 


164 Armando Maggi 


sta chi congiunge in un la terra e’! cielo, 
che muore eterno e visto, e non inteso, 
e Dio vivente in lacerato velo. 
(Casoni, Teatro poetico 217) 


The “torn veil” of verse four is both the veil of the sanctuary that was split in 
two from top to bottom at the moment of the Word’s death (Matthew 27:51) and 
the tormented body of the living God murdered on the cross as it is recorded on 
the shroud. Lying “suspended” in the air, the dead Word is a veil over the skies. 
The shroud in which he was buried both covers and enlightens the skies. 

We have said that, according to Casoni’s Ragionamenti, God paradoxically 
posits his dialogue with us as a form of radical exile. God is and is not in the 
creation. He exists among us as the memorial of his Word’s death. We are 
pilgrims, Casoni reiterates throughout his Opere, and as a pilgrim the Son of 
God lived among us. Let us remember that the Word’s last words on the cross 
spoke of solitude and abandonment (Matthew 27:46; Mark 15:34). Being God’s 
creation, the earth cannot help but express the solitude and exile that the Word 
voiced at the moment of his death. Exile is in fact what connects humans and the 
divine, since the Word himself shared our condition of outcast. The final section 
of Teatro poetico (“Clemenza divina”) is “the most spectacular” expression of 
Casoni’s interpretation of the earth-heaven reflection (Pozzi, La parola dipinta 
209).”° Unlike the previous chapters of the Teatro, this conclusive part on God’s 
amorous clemency is divided into two subchapters, both revolving around the 
Virgin mother of the Word and her contemplation of his corpse. In the first 
poetic section, composed of five octaves, Mary intercedes with the Word on 
behalf of the created world.” Opening her arms, the Virgin offers her naked 
breast as shield to protect the creation against the Word’s wrath.?” Through 
Mary the Word became incarnate and saved his own creation from the 
decadence of sin. The fleeting forms of the skies, Mary reminds the Word, are 
also products of his creation. In octave four, one of the most inspired 
expressions of seventeenth-century Italian devotional literature, Casoni gives a 
poetic form to the concepts expressed in the first part of Ragionamenti interni: 


Le fiamme lucidissime e divine, 


*> Pozzi refers to the second section of this final chapter. 

*° Casoni, Teatro poetico 219: “Cosi gia Cristo nostro Signore si mostré cinto dalle nubi 
del suo giusto sdegno co ’| fulmine in mano per purgare con |’incendio il mondo delle sue 
colpe quando, per intercessione della Beata Vergine, rifulse il lampo della sua 
misericordia, si rasserend il cielo e respird il mondo.” 

77 Casoni, Teatro poetico 220: “O del gran Padre eterno eterna prole,/ Figlio concetto in 
cielo e in terra nato,/ mio vivo sol, ond’ha la luce il sole,/ mio caro parto, ond’é il mio sen 
beato,/ Tu minacciante, io supplice? E pur suole / esser lo sdegno tuo da me placato./ 
Apro le braccia, e questo petto ignudo / Ti scopro, al mondo intercessore 0 scudo.” 





The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 165 


in cui riflette i] tuo gran lume un poco, 
i cieli che finiti e senza fine 
ne’ vari moti lor non mutan loco, 
tant’alme e tante forme pellegrine, 
l’uomo, tua imago, I’ invisibil foco, 
l’immobil terra, |’acqua e I’aria pura 
son pur del tuo amor parti e fattura. 
(Casoni, Teatro poetico 221 : 


Just as the flames of a starry night are a vague reflection of the Word’s abode, so 
are human beings mirrors of the Son. This essential concept finds a final 
formulation in the second part of this chapter, in which Casoni reiterates that the 
Word descended from heaven to earth so that these two halves of his creation 
could be reunited. In its poetic section, which is similar to a medieval /aude, an 
anonymous speaker engages Mary in a dialogue on the mystery of her son’s 
birth, death, and resurrection. Made of seven octaves entirely structured on the 
word rhymes “terra” and “cielo,” this second poem focuses on the meaning of 
the Word’s human biography.” Echoing Jacopone of Todi, the first two verses 
of the first octave read as follows: 


Maria, chi é quel bambin ch’é in terra? Terra. 
Dissi chi é quel ch’é ignudo al cielo? Cielo. 
(Casoni, Teatro poetico 223) 


In these two hendecasyllables, Casoni has synthesized the whole parable of the 
Word’s experience. The Word came to us as a baby born from a woman’s 
womb. Like every other human being, he was made of earth (Genesis 2:7). But, 
dying naked on the cross, the Word, made of earth, arose to heaven. Casoni 
offers a final rendition of this fundamental theme in the closing octave, a poetic 
tour de force: 


Patira questo Dio fatt’uomo in terra, 
perché I’uom farsi Dio bram6 nel cielo. 
Egli, ch’é nume e sacerdote in terra 


8 Casoni repeats the same words and concepts in Le battaglie pacifiche, a complex and 
long work that has received no critical attention: “Se la varieta é bellezza della natura, la 
quale ha fatti vari i cieli, diversi i loro moti, e differenti i loro purissimi lumi, che ha 
diversificati gli elementi, rese mutabili le stagioni, variati gli animanti e abbellito l’uomo 
con la diversita de’ membri, di potenze dell’anima, de gli affetti, e di mille altre variabili 
eccellenze, che lo rendono un mondo maraviglioso al mondo, chi sara che possa lodare la 
lealta in amore?” (Opere 28). 

?° Grillo writes a sonnet on the shroud of Turin entirely based on the word rhymes 
“spoglie” and “spoglia”’: “In questa santa ed onorata spoglia / sacra e pil degna di 
qual’altre spoglie” (Rime di diversi celebri poeti 83). 


166 Armando Maggi 


fara di sangue un sacrificio al cielo. 
Ei la vittima sia penosa in terra, 
caro olocausto, ostia amorosa al cielo, 
lacero, morto, al fin sepolto in terra, 
plachera il cielo, e salvera la terra. 
(Casoni, Teatro poetico 224)° 


The Word buried in the earth and arisen to heaven saves the earth from the exile 
it embodies since the fall. The Word has granted a meaning to the exile that 
rules over the creation after the original sin. Exile is now a means through which 
the pilgrims of the earth walk toward the Word, since the Word was made of 
earth and from the earth arose back to the Father. 

The theme of exile and reconciliation runs through the rest of Ragionamenti 
interni. In its fourth section (“Della mutazione delle cose,” part two), Casoni 
likens the interaction between the soul in exile and the heavens to the interplay 
between the moon and the sun. In Bellarmino’s De ascensione, we find a very 
similar treatment of this allegory. After offering an astronomical description of 
this natural occurrence,*'! both Bellarmino’s De ascensione and Casoni’s 
Ragionamenti explain how the intercourse between the two planets signifies the 
soul’s relationship with the divinity. Bellarmino writes: 


The moon stands for man; the sun stands for God; when the moon is opposite the sun, 
then the light borrowed from the sun looks only at the earth and in a way turns its back to 
heaven [...]. On the other hand, when the moon is in conjunction with the sun, it is 
perfectly subordinated to the sun; it is entirely bright on its upper side and looks toward 
heaven alone and turns its back after a fashion on the earth and disappears completely 
from human eyes. 
[...] If you, my soul, under the inspiration of his grace find yourself subordinated to the 
Father of lights [...] do not imitate fools who change like the moon. 

(Bellarmino, The Mind's Ascent 125-26; De ascensione 120) 


Casoni addresses the soul at the beginning of his exegesis: 


Rivolgiti anima mia alla considerazione di te medesima, perché vedrai come tu sia il 
ritratto di questo pianeta, poscia che mentre ricevi nella tua parte superiore il lume da 
Dio, tuo sole eterno, e a lui t’unisci, miri, vagheggi e contempli le cose celesti e sei 
parimente lucido spettacolo al cielo, stando con aspetto felice in congiunzione con Dio, 
ma se conversa alle sensualita [...] nella parte superiore tutta ombrosa ti mostri al cielo, 
allora [...] sei in opposizione co’l celeste tuo sole. 

(Casoni, Ragionamenti 282-83) 


°° Guaragnella 177-78. 

3! Beilarmino, De ascensione, step seven, ch. four, 119; Casoni, Ragionamenti 282. 

*? The dialogue between the sun, the moon, and the other planets had been the subject of 
the third chapter of Della magia d’amore (“Come amore sia astrologo”), a dense and at 








The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 167 


Like the moon in conjunction with the sun, the soul enlightened by the Word’s 
death understands that its distance from the divinity is not a mark of 
abandonment, but rather a paradoxical sign of closeness. According to Casoni, a 
soul in conjunction with its sun is a luminous surface that reflects the sky’s rays 
(“lucido spettacolo al cielo”). Some sort of luminosity inhabits the soul’s exile. 

The light lying dormant in the created world, in its forms doomed to decay 
and oblivion and in its creatures exiled from the heaven of heavens, is the core 
of chapter five of the Ragionamenti, called “Delle ricchezze.” Some readers 
could assume that such a cliched title would introduce a trite contrast between 
spiritual and worldly wealth. In fact, this brief section is one of the most inspired 
parts of the Ragionamenti. Walking out at dawn toward the mountain 
encountered in the first and the second chapters, Casoni sees that the sun is 
shining through the morning dew. At dawn, dew grants a layer of golden 
radiance to nature. Addressing dawn as he were speaking to his soul, Casoni 
writes: 


Contempla [...] questo colle, com’ei lentamente s’inalza, quasi bramoso di salutarti per 

ricevere le stille della tua rugiada, con la quale inargenti i suoi fiori. Vedi quest’erba tutta 

fiorita, vedila trappunta e stelleggiata di fiori, si che pare seminata di stelle. 
(Ragionamenti 288) 


Dawn is the awareness that visits the soul at the moment of its conjunction with 
its inner sun. Thanks to this enlightenment, the created world acquires a 
luminosity that makes it a reflection of the skies. Stars, Casoni says, seem to 
shine in the grass. This goldlike presence in the air at dawn brings to the fore the 
clarity within things themselves. Dawn’s visible clarity is similar to the clarity 
that visits the soul during its contemplation of the skies/heavens: 


Contempla, dico, il cielo, per natura semplice, per essenza sottile, per qualita lucido e per 
materia purissimo, ch’ogn’ora movendosi non mai dal suo luogo si muove, finito senza 
fine, tutto suo, tutto in sé, sempre a se stesso simigliante, vita del mondo, padre delle 
stagioni [...]. Non altro che la purissima rugiada che stilla dalla contemplatione delle cose 
celesti e dall’abborrimento delle ricchezze terrene pud estinguere la sete quasi che 





times convoluted analysis based on Renaissance astronomy and Florentine Neoplatonism. 
Casoni merges astronomy and devotional rhetoric in the second part of this lengthy 
chapter of Ragionamenti. After having posited the moon as a symbol of the soul’s 
instability, Casoni goes on to prove that the sun itself is variable (283-85). Casoni’s 
extensive astrological discussion opens as follows: “E non meno variabile il sole, 
poich’egli ogni giorno cangia l’Oriente co ’! meriggio e ’] meriggio con |’occaso; muta 
casa ogni mese co ’! mutare un segno celeste e va cambiando gli anni co ’! naturale suo 
corso; compare nell’oriente e cangia la notte in giorno; cade nell’occidente e tramuta il 
giorno in notte” (Casoni, Ragionamenti 283). 


168 Armando Maggi 


inestinguibile dell’oro [...] chi vuole avere ricchezze bisogna prima avere se stesso. 
(Casoni, Ragionamenti 290-93) 


This passage, which directly echoes the first page of the Ragionamenti on the 
contemplation of a nighttime sky, unmistakably blends the two meanings of the 
word “cielo.” By contemplating the heavens, the soul understands that it does 
not possess itself. The “dew” that flows down from the heavens is an inner gift 
that sheds light over the soul’s nothingness. Nothingness is the soul’s 
luminosity. The “dawn” of the soul’s awareness manifests an inner and outer 
world enlightened by nothingness. Let us bear in mind that, as Augustine states 
in the Confessions, light was the form that God gave to the abyss of the creation. 

The light at dawn is also the setting of the next chapter, “Della virginita,” 
which compares the light descending from the heavens to the inner light of the 
virginal soul: “Quella [la luce dell’alba] manifesta il corpo lucido distinguendolo 
dall’opaco; questa sparge da gli occhi i raggi dell’animo casto e luminoso, e lo 
discerne da quello che di terrene e tenebrose macchie é oscurato. La luce é 
porpora del cielo; la virginita é il lume della vita” (Casoni, Ragionamenti 295). 
One could say that Casoni’s Ragionamenti does not consist of seven meditations 
loosely connected to each other through some metaphorical and thematic 
recurrences, for it describes a process of inner enlightenment in which the author 
literally and metaphorically “walks outside” of himself and meditates upon the 
relationship among created world, human soul, and the Word. In a condition of 
inner and outer solitude, the subject understands that exile is the sense of his 
existence. But exile from the Word is also the place where the subject perceives 
the presence of the incarnate Word as a form of remembrance (the Word’s 
isolation, suffering, and death). Exile is a luminous presence within the creation 
and human beings. The name of this inner brilliance is “virginity,” in the sense 
that virginity is a clear state of purity that mirrors the purity of the heavens. 

The seventh and final chapter (“Della bellezza umana”) describes a spiritual 
closure. From the vault of the firmament and the light of a luminous dawn, 
Casoni finally focuses on the face of his beloved Lauretta. Like a night sky, her 
beauty is a reflection of God’s beauty: 


[...] ti prego per quel celeste lume dell’ideale bellezza ch’in te risplende, per quelle 
dolcissime tue luci, che sono nel cielo del tuo bel volto l’oriente di due Soli amorosi, che 
tu riceva nell’orecchie invisibili dell’anima tua queste voci, testimoni addolorati delle mie 
sciagure, e della tua perfidia. 

(Casoni, Ragionamenti 300) 


This opening section sounds like a trite formulation of baroque love poetry. The 
beloved woman’s cruelty causes deep sorrow in her lover. But why and how is 
Lauretta cruel? She is not cruel because she denies her sexual favors to the 
author, something that would contradict the previous chapter on the importance 
of virginity. Offering a unique interpretation of some essential topoi of baroque 


The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni 169 


love poetry, Casoni believes that Lauretta is cruel because her physical beauty, 
which echoes the harmony of the heavens, testifies to the distance between his 
soul and the divinity. In other words, Lauretta is cruel because she manifests the 
author’s exile from God. Summarizing all the themes covered throughout the 
first six chapters of the Ragionamenti, Casoni states that Lauretta’s visible 
beauty transcends the harmony of every possible aspect of the created world, 
including the firmament: 


[...] né il canto de gli uccelli, né il susurro delle fronde, né il mormorio dell’acque, né il 
concento del mondo, né il concento delle sue parti, né la musica delle sfere celesti, né 
l’armonia di te stessa [anima] arrivano alla soavita della melodia che dalla pellegrina 
belta della mia Lauretta dolcemente risulta. (Casoni, Ragionamenti 304) 


If in chapter one the vision of the firmament had made the wanderer perceive the 
created world as a place at once inhabited and abandoned by the divinity, in this 
final analysis of his beloved’s beautiful forms the author concludes that no 
solace derives from the visible world. In our analysis of chapter one, we saw that 
a certain comfort or pleasant fatigue overwhelmed the author at the end of his 
night walk and compelled him to go back to his bedroom. Here, at the 
conclusion of the entire book, the solitary Casoni realizes that to seek solace in 
the contemplation of the visible beauties (the firmament, dawn, the forms of 
Lauretta) is a misleading experience. Exile from the “cruel” Lauretta is the core 
of the human condition. No bedroom awaits the writer at the end of the 
Ragionamenti. A cave is the place where he will bury his lament. The last two 
sentences of the entire Ragionamenti read as follows: 


[...] il giorno gia cadente se ne fugge all’occaso, la speranza di rivedere in questo luogo la 
mia sospirata Lauretta é gia fuggita. Portano seco l’aure fugaci i miei giusti lamenti. 
Fuggird dunque ancor io quest’antro, e piangendo turberd con le mie voci dogliose il 
silenzio di queste selve. (Casoni, Ragionamenti 310) 


At the beginning of this essay I stated that Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni has a 
circular structure. If in the first chapter the author walks out at night, while 
chapters two through six take place at dawn and during the day. At the end of 
the final chapter, it is dusk time and night is approaching. Unlike the conclusion 
of chapter one, however, the end of the book does not describe a reassuring 
experience. The author walks back to a cave, the symbol of a solitary, monastic 
form of self-scrutiny. Casoni will trouble the “silence of these woods” with his 
cries. If the last word of a book has any meaning, “selve” and its singular 
“selva” have a special place in the Italian tradition. No clarity accompanies the 
wanderer back to his abode. “Selve” visualizes a sense of perdition, of utter 
confusion. It signifies exile. 

University of Chicago 


170 Armando Maggi 


Works Cited 


Accetto, Torquato. Della dissimulazione onesta. Ed. Salvatore Silvano Nigro. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1997. 

Augustine, St. Confessions. Trans. William Watts. 2 vols. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 1997. 

Balliani, Camillo. Ragionamenti sopra la Sacra Sindone. Torino: Pizzamiglio, 1646. 

Bartoli, Daniello. Dell’huomo di lettere difeso e emendato. Firenze: Stamperia di S.A.S. 
alla Condotta, 1645. 

. La ricreatione del savio. Venezia: Prodocimo, 1676. 

Bellarmino, Roberto. De ascensione mentis in Deum. Antverpiae: Ex Officina Platiniana, 

1615. 
. Spiritual Writings. Trans. John Patrick Donnelly and Roland J. Teske. New 
York: Paulist Press, 1989. 
Casoni, Guido. De la magia d'amore. Venezia: Zoppini, 1592. 
. Ode. Venezia: Ciotti, 1602. 
. Opere. Venezia: Baglioni, 1626. 
. Emblemi politici. Venezia: Baglioni, 1632. 

Corradini, Marco. “La ricerca metaforica di Guido Casoni.” Aevum 61. 3 (1987): 503-16. 

Del Nente, Ignazio. Eremo interno del cuore. Firenze: Borghigiani, 

1642. 

Doglio, Maria Luisa. “’Grandezze e meraviglie’ della Sindone nella letteratura del 
Seicento.” // potere e la devozione. La Sindone e la biblioteca reale di Torino. Ed. 
Vera Comoli and Giovanna Giacobello Bernard. Milano: Electa, 2000. 17-28. 

Francois de Sales. Oeuvres. Paris: Gallimard, 1969. 

, and Jane de Chantal. Letters of Spiritual Directions. Trans. Péronne Marie 
Thibert. New York: Paulist Press, 1988. 

Gentili, Antonio, and Mauro Ragazzoni. La spiritualita della riforma cattolica. Vol. 5/C. 
Bologna: Centro Editoriale Dehoniano, 1993. 

Guaragnella, Pasquale. Gli occhi della mente. Stili nel Seicento italiano. Bari: Palomar, 
1997. 

Harran, Don. “Guido Casoni on Love and Music: A Theme ‘for All Ages and Studies.” 
Renaissance Quarterly 54.3 (2001): 883-913. 

Hesiod. Homeric Hymns. Epic Cycle. Homerica. Trans. Hugh G. Evelyn-White. 
Cambridge: Harvard UP, 2000. 

Ignatius of Loyola. Spiritual Exercises and Selected Works. Trans. George E. Ganss. 
New York: Paulist Press, 1991. 

Marino, Giovanbattista. Dicerie sacre e la strage de gl’innocenti. Ed. Giovanni Pozzi. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1960. 

Molinari, Donatella. “Per un’idea dei rapporti fra poesia e iconismo. La passione di 
Christo di Guido Casoni.” Lingua e stile 14 (1979): 431-35. 

The New Jerusalem Bible. New York: Doubleday, 1998. 

Paleotti, Alfonso. Esplicatione del lenzuolo ove fu involto il Signore. Bologna: Rossi, 
1598. 

Patrizi, Francesco. Magia philosophica, hoc est Zoroaster et eius 320 oracula chaldaica. 
Hamburgi: Biblioteca Ranzoviana, 1593. 


> 


The Skies of the Soul’s Exile in Casoni’s Ragionamenti interni_ 171 


Petrarca, Francesco. Opere latine. Ed. Antonietta Fubano. Torino: Utet, 1987. 

Philosophical Writings of Peirce. Ed. Justus Buchler. New York: Dover Publications, 
1955. 

Portier, Lucienne. “Les calligrammes de Guido Casoni.” Revue des études italiennes 
43.1-2 (1997): 67-77. 

Pozzi, Giovanni. La rosa in mano al professore. Freiburg: Edizioni 

universitarie, 1974. 

. La parola dipinta. Milano: Adelphi, 1981. 

Rime di diversi celebri poeti dell’eta nostra. Ed. Giovanbattista Licino. Bergamo: 
Comino Ventura, 1587. 

Solaro, Agaffino. Sindone evangelica, istorica e teologica. Torino: Cavalleris, 1627. 

Theocriti aliorvmqve poetarvm idyllia: eiusdem epigrammata. Simmiae Rhodii Ouum, 
Alae, Securis, Fistula. Geneva: Stephanus, 1579. 


7 a a a a 


oO wt hl 


Fm eydh og AR enticing of ot 
: 1 ee = age ate ae 
. 


ta wee. \ pemnet 
0 ean pawl 1a 


a € ©: ++: Gap, a 


ee 

7 7 : Die ¢ Pie 

So 6 ~ egg A, ——- 
“e*; - iv Ge’? 


Aves a 
w, ‘ - F<. 


> # oe 71° Se. 


a 


_ 7 _— = 
a a - a 
- > & _ 
> _ cc > 
BS OO 








Luigi Monga 


“Doom’d to Wander”: 
Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 


In the course of human history individuals in power rarely failed to use every 
means at their disposal to dispatch their political adversaries. Whenever 
execution, the most customary solution, was inconvenient or unfeasible, legal 
ouster or threats leading to voluntary exile became bloodless alternatives,’ 
forcing dissenters to find a new home abroad.” At the origin of this predicament 
there is the problem of “alterity”: an inexplicably visceral feeling, borne by the 
realization that other social groups are different. Because of its collective 
strength, the most powerful group considers itself better than others and 
therefore rules. 

As early as the 6th century B.C., in several cities of Greece, casting dstraka 
was a constitutional safeguard that allowed civic leaders to remove unwanted 
citizens from the community for ten years (hence the modern verb “to 
ostracize”).’ Military victories and reversals of fortunes have usually culminated 
in dispatching members of the opposition or shipping off entire religious or 
ethnic minorities. 

In A.D. 8, Ovid, one of the most famous Roman exiles, guilty of some un- 
named error against the emperor, was banished to the eastern outpost of Tomis, 
on the Pontus Euxinus. Despite the poet’s repeated assurances of allegiance and 
submission, Augustus refused to commute his sentence. Ovid sought to keep 
writing poetry, building a monumentum to his fame as a national poet and 
implicitly a proud memoir for his unfair treatment. As for many other 
intellectuals after him, Ovid found in writing a positive answer to the tyrant’s 
wickedness.‘ 


' Deportation became a common form of exile in modern times. From 1617 to 1776, 
England dumped common criminals and “dissolute persons” to America, and, eventually, 
to Australia; France established penal colonies in Africa, New Caledonia, and Guiana; 
Russia deported her undesirable citizens to Siberia. Later on, the brutality of penal 
colonies was abandoned, and modern states prefer to jail or execute their dissenters. 

? Hunger is another catalyst for generations of desperate human beings who choose a self- 
imposed exile, emigrating with no hope of returning home. 

>In his early-16th-century encyclopedic Officina, under the heading “In exilium missi,” 
Jean Tixier de Ravisy (Johannes Ravisius Textor) collected a number of names of 
prominent Athenians exiled for dissenting with the local authorities. 

4 Cellini’s Vita could be considered a last resort solution, writing about himself, building 
a monument to consolidate his life achievement, at the very moment the grand duke has 
forced him into artistic inactivity. 


Annali d ‘italianistica 20 (2002) 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 174 


The history of the Jews is particularly dramatic in this respect. From the 
10th century B.C., when Jerusalem was sacked for the first time, this people was 
marked by a series of deportations and expulsions. Ezekiel was carried off to 
Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar with the king and a large body of the Jewish 
population. The prophet spent the rest of his life in exile, as an interested 
observer of affairs among his brethren, deploring the immorality of his own 
people and the just punishment it deserved. 

In Roman times, the first crises between Christ’s followers and the 
traditional Jews were solved by the expulsion of the minority from cities that 
maintained a powerful Jewish community, as happened to Paul and Barnabas in 
Antioch (Acts 13:50). Conversely, in the early centuries of Christianity, councils 
of the Church fulminated anathemas and ousted heretics; it was a complete 
severance of minorities from the mainstream group, akin to pruning a dead 
branch of a living tree (Matt. 3:10; 7:19). Sanctioning their own ideas, political 
authorities went as far as to organize their own national churches to emphasize 
an ever-present connection between religion and politics. More recently, the 
Holocaust taught the world a dramatic lesson about hatred and intolerance; 
standards of ethnic superiority disguised under philosophical tenets were used as 
excuses to drive out and punish unwelcome “others,” justifying, directly or 
surreptitiously, some of the cruelest tragedies in recent history. 

Fleeing Florence, where an unjust death sentence had been imposed on him 
by the Black Guelphs’ faction in January 1302, Dante, “florentinus et exul 
inmeritus,” began a political odyssey, a “pena d’essilio e di povertate” (Conv. 
1:3.2) that taught him, painfully, “‘si come sa di sale / lo pane altrui, e come é 
duro calle / lo scendere e ’| salir per l’altrui scale” (Par. 17: 58-60). Petrarch’s 
maternal grandfather, a notary, falsely accused of corruption, was exiled from 
Florence a few months after Dante. The government of this factious and 
turbulent city, enmeshed in continuous internecine squabbles, used death and 
exile to keep the opposition in check as late as the Quattrocento. The influence 
of local political struggles on the lives of Machiavelli? and Savonarola® is well 


* Yet, Machiavelli wrote bitterly negative pages against Dante, downplaying the poet’s 
exile and portraying him as a vindictive, unpatriotic individual who “in ogni parte mostrd 
d’essere, per ingegno, per dottrina e per giudizio, uomo eccellente, eccetto che dove ebbe 
a ragionare della patria sua; la quale, fuori d’ogni umanita e filosofico instituto, 
perseguitd con ogni specie d’ingiuria. E non potendo altro fare che infamarla, accusd 
questa d’ogni vizio, danno gli uomini, biasimd il sito, disse male de’ costumi e delle 
leggi di lei [...]. E se per sorte, de’ mali ch’egli li predisse, le ne fusse accaduto alcuno, 
Firenze arebbe pit da dolersi d’aver nutrito quell’uomo che d’alcuna altra sua rovina” 
(Discorso sulla lingua 9). 

° Ironically, one of Cellini’s evictions from Florence was caused by a mob of fanatics 
(“aronzinati cappuccinetti” Vita I, 17) who wanted him jailed for being involved in a 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 175 


known; but other cities, in Italy and abroad, fared no better. Kings and 
commoners were united in the same fate. Louis XI of France had to seek refuge 
in Burgundy from 1456 to 1461 before regaining his throne. At the same time in 
England, Henry VI had to flee to Scotland, a recurrent destiny in his family, for 
Henry IV, his grandfather and Edward IV, his successor, regained power after 
being forced into exile (Shaw 5). And in the name of the gods of reformers and 
counter-reformers, many individuals were forced to seek abroad a place that 
would allow them freedom of worship. As soon as the victims regained power, 
however, they often took their turn to exact violent retribution against their own 
religious foes. 

Ousting of people preceded and followed banishment of their books. 
Luther’s works were publicly burned in Cologne and Louvain while he 
organized similar bonfires of papal edicts in Wittenberg and persuaded the 
Elector of Saxony to proscribe works written by fellow Protestants with whom 
he disagreed. And Calvin’s Geneva, a city of refuge for religious exiles, soon 
turned into a theocratic system that imposed serious restraints on the liberty of 
the citizenry, enforcing a strict discipline that cut off dissenters from all social 
intercourse and turned them to an inflexible authority made of preachers and 
elders to be put to death.’ Meanwhile, censorship to preserve the established 
faith lead the Council of Trent to the publication of the Index librorum 
prohibitorum (1564), the standard list of books banned from Catholic libraries,® 
while more Christian thinkers, fled their homes or were burned by the 
Inquisition. Civility and orderliness proved impossible to legislate and 
controversies raged among Christians, until the Peace of Augsburg (1555) put in 
effect a Solomonic compromise (cujus regio ejus religio) that tied for centuries 
geography and religious freedom, maintaining uniformity of cult and political 
allegiance by “freeing” individuals to leave their country in order to practice 
their faith somewhere else. 

At the end of the 16" century, numerous young men left a France divided 
by the religious wars; half a century later, British aristocrats fled the disarray of 
the civil war, completing their studies in the Continent while waiting for the re- 


brawl. They probably were the remnants of Savonarola’s coterie, bouncing back to 
political power after their leader was burned at the stake in 1498. 

™ Such was the case of Miguel Serveto, who was tried and condemned by Calvin to be 
burned (27 October 1553) for his theological opinions. This practice went against the 
rules of separation between Church and State originally outlined by Calvin in his 
Institutio christianae religionis (IV, XI, 5). 

® The Index was suppressed in 1966. Iconoclastic activity, a form of censorship (and 
metaphorical dispatching of images), has a long history. From the primitive Christians to 
Islamic and Renaissance purists (Catholic and Protestants alike) to the most recent 
vandalism on Buddhist statuary by Afghanistan’s Talibans, the world’s cultural 
landscape is full of “bonfires of vanities” and broken artifacts. 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 176 


establishment of a better political climate at home. In the Italian Renaissance 
artists such as Leonardo and Cellini had to leave the inevitable squabbles among 
confréres and the political turmoil of their home town to seek a peaceful 
environment in more stable European courts. Elsewhere, the astronomer Tycho 
Brahe, leaving in disgrace his native Denmark for Vienna, bitterly complained 
in his “Elegia ad Daniam” (“Elegy to Denmark,” 1597),’ that Norway and 
Sweden were ready to honor his achievements (“Dania, si taceas, Norici 
Swecique loquentur,” 51). And John Florio, whose family was persecuted in 
Italy for its Protestant beliefs, eventually found a positive environment in 
London, where his linguistic abilities opened for him a literary career. 

Self-imposed exile to avoid persecution continued: Recusants, non-Con- 
formists, and Puritans in 16th-century England; Quakers before the passing of 
the Toleration Act (1689); French Huguenots after the revocation of the Edict of 
Nantes (1685) brought their faith to new shores, while aristocrats or wealthy 
bourgeois escaped the political unrest of their countries. A synopsis of the 
political history of England in the 17" century was sketched in the ironical 
account “of the affairs [of England] during the last century” that Jonathan Swift, 
disguised as Gulliver, gave the king of Brobdingnag: “[...] a heap of 
conspiracies, rebellions, murders, massacres, revolutions, banishments, the very 
worst effects that avarice, faction, hypocrisy, [...] hatred, envy, lust, malice, and 
ambitions could produce” (Gulliver's Travels ii, 6). 

In the 18" century, the bigotry of the Venetian civil and religious authorities 
forced Casanova to seek abroad fame and more adventures, and the rabid 
revenge and bloody feuds of French revolutionaries caused Chateaubriand and 
other aristocrats to emigrate to save their lives. A few years later, the Austrian 
regime in northern Italy, fighting all forms of intellectual freedom, jailed in the 
infamous Spielberg fortress the patriots it did not execute, stirring among its 
more independent citizens a longing for emigrating to America.'° Yet Milanese 
émigrés, patriots “che ramingavano in terre straniere” (Pellico, Le mie prigioni, 
ch. 95), crossed the Atlantic to settle in a free country that, alas, was not immune 
from vicious occurrences of intolerance against minorities. Paradoxically, 
Naples, a city governed by a rabid reactionary establishment that banned and 
executed young intellectuals and carbonari, was hailed as the “Paradise of 


° Opera omnia, ed. I. L. E. Dreyer (Hauniae: Libraria Gyndendaliana, 1913-1929), 
13:102-04. 

'° As William Berrian noted in 1818, the United Stated, a newly formed country, soon 
had become “the common subject of conversation at the coffeehouses” in Milan (Berrian 
349). From 1835 to the unification of Italy, Austrian oppression in Milan by Ferdinand I 
and the failure of the 1848 uprising forced the brightest citizens to seek abroad freedom 
and economic improvement. See my essay “Pier Giuseppe Bertarelli: A Milanese 
Wayfarer to Eldorado, 1849-1853.” 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 177 


Exiles'' by some Romantic poets and became a playground where foreign 
travelers found the last remnants of classical beauty. 

And, if it were a need to prove that personal freedom remains an impossible 
dream for much of humanity even at the dawn of the 21 century, more victims 
of persecutions based on race, religion or sexual preference still have to flee 
their homes to seek a peaceful life. Not an exclusive appanage of Christians, 
casting out or even executing dissenters is still a legitimate solution in some 
societies, when a fatwa is issued by religious authorities. The masses of faceless 
victims of more discriminations and genocides that have escaped intransigence, 
poverty, and violence in the Balkans and Middle East, in Indonesia and Africa at 
the turn of the second millennium, are a sad reminder that exile and 
discrimination are a chronological constant in the political discourse. 

Whatever Machiavelli thought about Dante, the fate the “Ghibellin 
fuggiasco” (Foscolo, / sepolcri 174) remains a tragic paradigm of the 
victimization of the most vibrant elements in society. Centuries later, Foscolo’s 
own “vita raminga” (J sepolcri 12), spent “in lungo esilio fra spergiure genti” 
(Sonetti 6:6), or Solzhenitzin or Salman Rushdie’s hiding from death threats of 
religious zealots, proved the existence of a disturbing continuum between 
Dante’s fate and the wandering of intellectuals of past and recent history. 


France’s mirabilis annus and the Italian Journey 

Five civil wars between 1562 and 1576 had left France in disarray. Catholics 
and Protestants were divided not just by theological viewpoints but also by 
private resentments, personal ambition, and political intrigues. In the late 1580s 
the political situation in France had reached its nadir: the king was run out of 
Paris, the mob had built barricades in the capital, and the Queen Mother, 
Catherine de’ Medici, still considered a foreigner, was hated by the populace. 
Europe at large was in no better shape; and a German astronomer from 
K6onigsberg, Johann Miiller (called “Regiomontanus”) had prognosticated 1588 
as an extraordinary year (“mirabilis annus”) of bloodcurdling events (“‘trista 
fata”) and general mourning (“undique luctus”).'? In the courts of Paris and 


'! “Thou, Paradise of Exiles, Italy” (Percy B. Shelley, “Julian and Maddalo” 57). 

'2 Miiller’s predictions quickly spread throughout Europe; fascinating the emperor 
Rudolph II, an amateur astroncmer, panicking Philip 1! to jail astrologers and 
rumormongers, and causing the sailors preparing the invasion of England to desert the 
Spanish fleet. A Latin translation of Miiller’s text was quoted in a letter by Etienne 
Pasquier to M. de Sainte-Marthe (Oeuvres, Amsterdam, 1723, I, 331): “Post mille 
elapsos a partu Virginis annos, / Et post quingentos rursus in orbe datos, / Octuagesimus 
octavus mirabilis annus / Ingruet, et secum tristia fata feret. / Si non hoc anno totus malus 
occidit orbis, / Si non hoc anno terra fretumque ruunt, / Cuncta tamen sursum volventur, 
et alta deorsum / Imperia, atque ingens undique luctus erit.” (A Latin translation of some 
of Miiller’s astrological writings had been published by Gryphius in Lyons in 1553.) 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 178 


Blois a series of murders made Miiller’s predictions grimly accurate. The 
assassination of Henri de Lorraine, Duke of Guise, and his brother, Louis 
Cardinal de Lorraine, was ordered in Blois by Henri III (December 23 and 24, 
1588); soon, the Queen Mother, Catherine de’ Medici, died of natural causes, 
and the king himself was killed by a deranged monk a few months later. Other 
European rulers were getting close to their end: the Valois dynasty in France; 
the reign of Philip IJ in Spain, with the debacle of the Armada; and soon a fracas 
in England with the murder of a king. 

The end of the 16" century saw a generation of French young men, 
bourgeois and aristocrats, looking for peace and quiet in Italy. Montaigne’s 
journey to Italy (1580-81) was undertaken for the same reason, as he confessed 
in his Essais: “Lf[a] cause qui me convie a ces promenades c’est la 
disconvenance aux meurs presentes de notre estat. [...] Dieu en chasse loing nos 
divisions!” (Ill, 9). 

After the Italian Wars, the loss at Pavia (1525) and the setting of the pax 
hispanica, the Spanish supremacy in Italy after the peace of Cambrai (1530) and 
the treaty of Cateau-Cambrésis (1559), French travelers did not immediately 
start a widespread pilgrimage to Italy. The repository of political wisdom, even 
in her saddest days, Italy was still an effective teacher of high esthetic doctrine 
and subtle political games, in an ambiance made dangerous by a fragile balance 
of power and interfering international powers. The presence of French citizens 
in Italy was not well accepted, particularly in Spain-dominated areas, and bad 
blood among denizens of the rival countries was still common. But other 
elements were at play. The presence of the Inquisition on most of the Italian 
territory spurred an overwhelming mistrust for citizens from Protestant countries 
or countries like France, where the religious debate was still being fought long 
after Henri IV had renounced his Protestant affiliation to gain the crown. In a 
Rome dominated by distrust for foreign visitors, many travelers felt closely 
watched and in danger, wrote Villamont: 


[...] il ne faut nullement parler des choses concernant |’Eglise, la foye et le 
Pape, sur peine d’encourir le peril d’estre mis en inquisition, en laquelle estant 
entré une fois on a moyen de s’y reposer longuement auparavant qu’on demande 
pourquoy on y a esté mis, de maniere que celuy qui veut eviter cest inconvenient 
doit estre modeste en son parler, signamment des choses susdites, d’autant qu’il 
y a des espies en Rome, qui rapportent tout ce qui se fait 4 Sa Sainteté. 


(Voyages 88-89) 


It was, indeed, a theological mistrust for the foreigners that could lead to 
imprisonment. Life in Rome was still reasonably safe and enjoyable, provided 
that the traveler had enough money and savvy: “[...] vivez,” concluded 





| 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 179 


Villamont, “hantez les putains, joiiez, blasphemez et commettez toutes sortes de 
pechez, personne ne vous dira rien” (89). 

In Spanish-dominated areas of the Peninsula, however, there was still a 
clear, although not life-threatening, danger. French travelers, Spain’s traditional 
enemies, were kept away from castles and fortified areas in Milan’’ and verbaily 
abused whenever they encountered Spanish troops on southern roads. The fact 
that there was a strong contingent of French residents in Naples and Palermo at 
the end of 1588 appears to prove that their presence there was at least tolerated 
by the Spanish authorities. For a couple of centuries southern Italy had seen a 
seesaw of French and Spanish rulers, and the volatile political discourse of 
southern Italy consisted in regretting the demise of previous rulers. On February 
11, 1588, on their way to Naples, the journal of a group of Frenchmen reported 
the verbal abused they received from some Spanish soldiers, but no bodily harm 
was suffered: 


[...] nous trouvasmes une compagnie d’espagnolz qui s’en alloient 4 Gaiette, desquelz 
nous receumes beaucoup d’indignités de parolles, nous appelant Luteriens et aultres 
injures. 

(Discours viatiques 88)'* 


Spaniards generalized their hatred for the French by defining them as Protestant, 
yet many of the French travelers in Italy were victims of the social instability 
caused by the Protestant uprising. 

An implicit fear of identifying themselves with one religious belief is 
common in some of the travel narratives of these years. Some French travelers 
writing their journal in Italy hid their religious background because it was easy 
to fit with the Catholic majority. Perhaps, they were afraid that someone could 
read their travel journals and denounce them to the Inquisition. A few years 
later, Jean-Jacques Bouchard hid under Greek transliteration names and words 


'? The Milanese branch of the Inquisition under the Spanish domination was particularly 
severe for Protestant expatriates under the Borromeo cardinals, Carlo (1560-1584) and 
Federico (1595-1631). John Evelyn mentioned a widespread “dread of the Inquisition” at 
his approach of the city. He and his companions were received with respect by Fr. 
Francesco Bernardino Ferrari, the Prefetto of the Biblioteca Ambrosiana, for whom they 
had letters of recommendation. However, when Alexander Burnett, an Englishman they 
befriended in Milan, died accidentally and was suspected to be a Protestant, Evelyn and 
his friends hastened to leave town the following morning, fearing that Burnett would be 
discovered under a systematic inquiry and all his acquaintances punished (“the 
Inquisition here being so cruelly formidable and inevitable on the least suspicion” 505). 
'4 Tt was the same contingent of Spaniards who the next day reportedly met another group 
of French travelers on their way to Naples (Voyage de Provence et d'Italie 78); the 
viceroy switched frequently his troops from one fortress to another to avoid a 
development of over-friendly relationship between them and the local citizenry. 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 180 


that could uncover his thoughts and activities. Had his autobiographical Journal, 
written in Italy, fallen into the wrong hands, the young abbé’s blossoming 
career, and even his life, could have been imperiled. 


“England Is No Place for Me”: The Great Rebellion and the Grand Tour 
Scholars disagree on the exact chronology of the social phenomenon called “the 
Grand Tour.” To a certain extent, the pilgrimage of British young men to the 
Continent was enhanced by the political conditions in early seventeenth-century 
England, even though a few English travelers (Hoby, Moryson, Coryate, and 
Dallington, among others) had left their country in the course of the preceding 
century. Some of them were soldiers or merchants, and they had left England, as 
Edward, Earl of Clarendon, writes, “in that strict time of queen Elizabeth” (The 
Life i, 3). Many students chose Padua as their alma mater studiorum during the 
scholars’ Grand Tour, for that “course of learning and ingenious studies” 
(Shakespeare, The Taming of the Shrew I, i, 9): a new curriculum studiorum set 
for the British youth in the 16" century. 

By and large, seventeenth-century tourism was motivated by political crisis. 
Whenever plague or hostilities developed in Europe, civilian travel was forced 
to abate, but the number of Englishmen who left their country increased 
whenever the political situation in Britain deteriorated. Many British travelers 
preferred not to take sides during the Civil Wars; rather than live under the 
Commonwealth and the protectorate or face punitive taxation, they waited 
patiently on the Continent for better times, sometimes even becoming permanent 
residents in foreign lands.'* Dissidents became tourists, wrote guidebooks, 
tutored or guided other exiled countrymen in their Grand Tour of the Continent. 

In early 1648, in the lull between England’s first and second Civil War, 
John Raymond, who had returned home after a long European tour, composed a 
comprehensive English guidebook to Italy. It was the first of numerous accounts 
by British exiles to introduce the Grand Tour of Italy to their countrymen who 
prepared to flee the internal strife of what was soon to become “a Kingdome 
without a King.'° Now more young men were doomed to wander abroad,’ 
waiting for the return of better times and a more peaceful climate in their 
country. John Reresby was very specific about the reasons why young British 


'S Milton was a noteworthy exception to this predicament. In 1639, he left the Continent 
and returned to London and to “the sad tidings of civil war,” thinking it reprehensible to 
travel abroad “while [his] fellow-citizens at home were fighting for liberty” (Complete 
Prose Works, ed. D. M. Wolfe, IV, pt. 1, p. 619) 

'® Sir John Berkenhead’s prophetic expression found its accomplishment a few years later 
with Charles II’s execution. It is striking to see the similarities between England in the 
1640s and France in the 1580s. 

'7 “-Twas usefully done [the Italian tour by Royalist exiles], since now so many of us are 
doom’d to wander” (John Raymond, // Mercurio Italico, or An Itinerary, f° A6v). 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 181 


men left their country between 1640 and 1660: the Puritan Revolution was a 
strong catalyst that made a forced Grand Tour very desirable: 


I left England [25 April 1654] in that unhappy time when honesty was reputed a crime, 
religion superstition, loyalty treason; when subjects were governors, servants masters, 
and no gentleman assured of any thing he possessed; the least jealousy of disaffection to 
the late erected commonwealth being offence sufficient to endanger the forfeiture of his 
estate, the only laws in force being those of the sword. The posture of affairs so changed 
the face of home, that to live there appeared worse than banishment; which caused most 
of our youth (especially such whose families had adhered to the late King) to travel; 
amongst others myself. 

(Reresby 1) 


Or, as Richard Flecknoe wrote from Ghent in 1640, 


[...] there are diverse Birds that flie away, when Stormes and Winter comes, one of those 
Birds am I, for all prognosticks Mariners observe of ensuing Storms, and I have observed 
in England, the billows beginning to swell high, and those Porpoices which, were the 
Times fair and serene should be i’ th’ Bottom, dauncing on the Top. [...] Besides 
educated as I am in the Arts of Peace (Musick and Poetry) [...] England is no place for 
me. 

(quoted in Chaney 61) 


Italy, “the only Country now free from Wars and the miseries it brings in 
train of it” (Richard Flecknoe in Chaney 63), became the natural place for 
British exiles, at least after 1620, when the hazards and restrictions to English 
Protestants in territories held by Spain had abated. Italy was not exactly the 
peaceful place Flecknoe claimed, but it had a universally acknowledged 
reputation of ancient and modern attractions for all intellectuals. One could 
therefore make a case of dating the starting of the Grand Tour at this 
troublesome moment in British history (Chaney 63-64). The exiting youth aimed 
to reach France, geographically closer to England, and whose language was 
better known to young scholars and aristocrats,'* but continued into Italy for a 
time of discovery, reshaping an entire generation of youngsters, who returned 
home and attempted to influence the cultural landscape of their country. 


Cardinal de Retz’s Road to Exile: “Asile” and “Exil” 
A memoir, still an ill-defined literary genre, often confused with 
autobiographical narrative, has a definite character of an apologia pro vita sua. 


'8 “The Covenant being press’d, which ensnared so many to take part with the rebells, & 
the longer escaping in the cause of my so frequent motions hitherto, I resolved a fresh on 
my journey into France [1643], so [...] we came before Calis [Calais]” (John Evelyn, De 
Vita propria, The Diary 1, 555-56). 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 182 


Etymologically related to mémoire, it is a device intended to help the writer to 
remember (pro memoria) something that is dear and risks to be forgotten: a 
genre privileging the writer’s subjectivity, selecting and emphasizing whatever 
fits a private agenda. Such a self-defense is “le produit de la réflexion d’un 
homme qui analyse, au soir de son age, ce qui a fait le sel de son existence” 
(Hipp, xx), exactly what Jean-Francois-Paul de Gondi, cardinal de Retz, had in 
mind when, prodded by friends, he started penning his Mémoires: the events of 
his political career and his constant fight against Louis XIV. 

“Un dangereux esprit,” as the young abbé admittedly had been defined by 
Richelieu (136), he wanted to share with history his life and troubles. Positively 
partisan in his version of the political events of his time, de Retz is unabashedly 
honest when he describes his private life, and does not hide his liaisons and even 
his unspeakable motivations. A great part of de Retz’s extensive and detailed 
autobiography deals with his exile from France, his vicissitudes at the court of 
Spain, and his humiliations in the Roman Curia by the cardinals financially 
supported by Louis XIV to oppose de Retz. As a travel narrative, this memorial 
is an unsurpassed example of seventeenth-century hodoeporics. 

“Petit, myope, noiraud, mal fait” (Bertiére 372), positively unattractive 
according to his own admission (“Mme de Carignan disait un jour, devant la 
Reine que j’étais fort laid, et c’était peut-étre l’unique fois de sa vie ow elle 
n’avait pas menti” 718), de Retz had the aggressiveness of the short, un- 
seductive male who knows how to capitalize on his intellectual qualities to 
promote an oversized ego. 

As a young scholar, young de Retz had experienced his first exile, when he 
took the first place in an examination at the Sorbonne, beating the abbé de La 
Mothe-Houancourt, Richelieu’s protégé, and enraging the powerful cardinal. To 
avoid the jealousy of the Parisian Academy and the ecclesiastical establishment, 
he left for Venice, a city where his amorous escapades forced him to seek refuge 
in Rome. The death of his second brother, destined to the ecclesiastical career, 
opened for him the door for a rapid advancement in the Church hierarchy, 
despite the little inclination he felt towards clerical life: “[...] mes occupations 
ecclésiastiques étaient diversifiées et égayées par d’autres, qui étaient un peu 
plus agréables” (163). 

As a bishop coadjutor of his uncle, the old archbishop of Paris, and then his 
successor, de Retz acquired immediately great influence with the local 
bourgeoisie, gradually turning against Cardinal Mazarin and the king. Arrested 
and imprisoned (December 1652-August 1654), he escaped, beginning a long 
odyssey away from France (1654-62) which is at the core of his memoir. By the 
time he started writing it, the cardinal had undergone a radical conversion and 
had abandoned the glitter of his position. De Retz’s Mémoires cannot be 
dismissed simply as an act of revenge against his political enemies; it is also a 
courageous attempt to set the record straight in a momentous fight that set the 





Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 183 


Church against the king, who had slowly become a “princeps solutus legibus”: a 
powerful individual who could legally and morally do anything he chose, in 
politics as well as in his private life. 

De Retz’s road to exile brought him to Spain (September 12, 1654), a 
picaro disguised as a fisherman in a small boat full of sardines. Refusing Philip 
IV’s generous offers to settle in Madrid, where he would have been, justifiably, 
considered a traitor to his king, he chose the court of Rome (“I’asile naturel d’un 
cardinal et d’un cardinal et d’un évéque persécuté” 969), knowing very well its 
stinging internal intrigues (“je connaissais assez la cour de Rome pour savoir 
que le poste d’un réfugié et d’un suppliant n’y est pas agréable” 968). 

His voyage to Rome is typical of a roman de voyage: none of the usual 
adventures is missed. In Pamplona he find himself, incognito, in the middle of a 
revolution surrounded by a crowd of endemoniados (972); in Zaragoza he is 
confused for Charles II of England, and honored by “cent et cents galanteries” 
from the local ladies; only in Valencia, ready to embark on a galley for Rome, 
can he finally enjoy some pleasure: the exotic perfumes of the best garden in 
the world: 


[...] les grenadiers, les orangers et les limoniers y font les palissades des grands chemins. 
Les plus belles et les plus claires eaux du monde leur servent de canaux. Toute la 
campagne, qui est émaillée d’un million de fleurs différentes qui flattent la vue, y exhale 
un million d’odeurs différentes qui charment I’ odorat. 

(974) 


His fascination for the scenery conveys the grandiose elements he has admired 
in the backdrops of the best operas, as in his description of the harbor of 
Minorca, where his Spanish galley landed for the night: 


Son embouchure est fort étroite et je ne crois pas que deux galéres a la fois y puissent 
passer en voguant. II s’élargit tout d’un coup et fait un bassin oblong, qui a une demi- 
lieue de large et une bonne lieue de long. Une grande montagne, qui l’environne de tous 
les cétés, fait un théatre qui, par la multitude et par la hauteur des arbres dont elle est 
couverte, et par des ruisseaux qu’elle jette avec une abondance prodigieuse, outre mille et 
milles scénes qui sont sans exagération plus surprenantes que celle de |’Opéra. Cette 
méme montagne, ces arbres, ces rochers couvrent le port de tous les vents, et, dans les 
plus grandes tempétes, il est toujours aussi calme qu’un bassin de fontaine et aussi uni 
qu’une glace. 

(977-78) 


The sea voyage from Spain to Rome, undertaken during the dangerous winter 
season, is a compendium of the commonplaces of this genre, and de Retz’s 
oversized ego offers his reader an anthology of mishaps from which he always 
emerges as a hero: encounters with enemy ships, battles with corsairs, and a 
terrible storm. Even the quarantine before entering Tuscany becomes “une 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 184 


légére quarantaine” of nine days, always “servi magnifiquement” by the grand 
duke’s courtiers and entertained by the local aristocracy. But de Retz finds out 
soon that the political environment in Rome is not in his favor. He had known 
since his escape from Paris that his asylum was going to be nothing less than an 
exile: “[...] il y a des temps dans lesquels il n’est pas malaisé de prévoir que ce 
qui devrait servir d’asile peut facilement devenir un lieu d’exile” (969). He had 
hoped that Alexander VII, a pope de Retz had helped elect, could moderate the 
powerful faction of the cardinals subservient to Louis XIV. Unfortunately, 
Alexander died very soon, and the cardinal’s exile in Rome became unbearable. 

De Retz’s sprezzatura leads him to portray himself as an individual who 
easily excels in whatever activity he chooses to engage in, from university 
examinations, to duels, to winning punctilious questions of pride; his victories 
include even amorous engagements with the ladies of the aristocracy. At times 
he likes to show his strength when tempted by the flesh, penniless but as 
generous as a prince, forgiving even his greedy and unforgiving ecclesiastic 
brothers. The heroic tone of his narrative is immediately set. De Retz is an 
individual who stands up to the king’s powerful prime ministers, his fellow 
cardinals Richelieu and Mazarin, and eventually challenges even the royals 
authority. But it is an uneven contest, one churchman against the political might 
of the most powerful prince in 17th-century Europe. Eventually, after his fall, de 
Retz turns to God and finally retires to a monastery, but he still fights to set the 
record straight. Many of his readers remember the facts, so any bending in de 
Retz’s Mémoirs is limited to the realm of his intentions. There may be errors in 
details, but historians agree that the whole of his memoir is faithful (“{...] 
erreur de détail ne doit pas dissimuler la vérité de l’ensemble” Hipp xxviii). 
And de Retz charms the readers with his simplicity. 

The character who is denied an active role in the political discourse replaces 
acting with writing. The decision to write one’s own life story changes an 
apparent loser into a winner, for it gives him not only an audience, but also the 
chance of continuing his involvement in the political arena. 

It is natural that de Retz’s memorial, written by an old man thirty years after 
the facts, from a Benedictine monastery where he finally retired, aims at 
reshaping a life story in which travels are only peripheral elements. 

The examples we have chosen show the variety of developments of a theme 
that goes beyond the traditional definition of exile as an expulsion from one’s 
native land or home by authoritative decree. Some of the individuals we 
encountered were not expelled, but fled before an authoritative decree was even 
issued, certainly avoiding a harsher punishment. Others were “doom’d” by a 
political or religious environment to embark in a journey that concealed fear 
under a youthful desire to learn. It was, perhaps, the only positive element in an 
otherwise cruel world. The hard choice of leaving one’s country in despair 
offered a generation of young travelers the chance to open up to a new 





Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 185 


environment and come back to their society ready to apply the lessons of change 
they had learned. We could also have shown Cellini’s psychological home exile 
after Cosimo I withdrew his patronage, forcing the artist to assume the new role 
of a writer. For writing was the best revenge for many exiles who created an 
everlasting image for themselves instead of accepting to be victimized in an 
otherwise bland career under the patronage of a tyrant. Cardinal de Retz is in a 
position similar to that of Cellini. Had he submitted to the king’s despotic 
authority, he could have lived a peaceful and honorable existence in Paris. His 
enormous pride, combined with Louis’s self-aggrandizing, led him to engage in 
a continuous battle with the king, a losing political confrontation that allowed 
him the time to create his own heroic persona. From Ovid to Cellini and de Retz, 
the narrative of exile has often taken the shape of a memorial, the last chance to 
defend one’s personal view, re-shape history, expose enemies, and build a 
monument of fame that would outlast a tyrant’s reign. But it was also a chance 
to improve one’s lot, open one’s mind to a foreign culture, before returning 
home, like Dante’s Ulysses, rich in “virtute e canoscenza.” Their uprooting 
forced a poetic “re-creation” in their mind of a spiritual Jocus amoenus, built on 
a feeling of not belonging in the place of their exile. And their return home was 
a chance to apply all lessons learned abroad. 


Vanderbilt University 


Exile, Memoirs, and Early Modern Travel Narrative 186 


Works Cited 


Berrian, William. Travels in France and Italy in 1817 and 1818. New York: T. & J. 
Swords, 1821. 

Bertiére, André. Le Cardinal de Retz mémorialiste. Paris: Klincksieck, 1977. 

Bertrand, Gilles. Bibliographie des études sur le voyage en Italie: voyage en Italie, 
voyage en Europe: XVI'-XX° siécle. Grenoble: CRHIPA, 2000. 

Chaney, Edward. The Grand Tour and the Great Rebellion: Richard Lassells and “The 
Voyage of Italy” in the Seventeenth Century. Genéve: Slatkine, 1985. 

Cervigni, Dino S. The “Vita” of Benvenuto Cellini: Literary Tradition and Genre. 
Ravenna: Longo, 1979. 

Edward, Earl of Clarendon. The Life of Edward Earl of Clarendon. Oxford, 1857. 

Evelyn, John. De vita propria. The Diary. Ed. E. S. de Beer. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 
1955. 

Hale, John. The Civilization of Europe in the Renaissance. New York: Touchstone, 1993. 

Hipp, Marie-Thérése. “Introduction.” Retz ix-xxxvi. 

Monga, Luigi. “Pier Giuseppe Bertarelli: A Milanese Wayfarer to Eldorado, 1849-1853.” 
Southern California Quarterly 69.2 (1977): 129-38. 

. “Ut hominibus singulis, sic populis suae laudes, suae tabes: visioni dell’altro 
nell’apodemica europea del Rinascimento.” Emanuele Kanceff, ed. “‘Lo sguardo 
che viene di lontano’: l’alterita e le sue letture. Moncalieri: CIRVI (2001) 1: 373- 
96. 

Raymond, John. Memoirs and Travels. London, 1904. 

. ll Mercurio Italico, or An Itinerary Contayning a Voyage Made through 

Italy in the Yeare 1646 and 1647. London: Humphrey Moseley, 1648. 

Reresby, John. The Memoirs of Sir J. R. Ed. J. J. Cartwright. London: Longmans, Green, 
1875. 

Retz, Pierre de Gondi, cardinal de. Mémoires. Oeuvres. Ed. M-Th. Hipp and M. Pernot. 
Paris: Gallimard, 1984. 

Shaw, Christine. The Politics of Exile in Renaissance Italy. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 
2000. 

Stoye, John. English Travellers Abroad, 1604-1667. 1952. New Haven: Yale UP, 1989. 

Villamont, Jacques. Les Voyages du seigneur de Villamont. Paris: C. de Montr’oeil et J. 
Richer, 1600. 








Nicola Bietolini 


I “concatenati dolori”: esilio, scrittura e censura 
nell’autobiografia letteraria e nel poema “L’esule” di 
Pietro Giannone 


Cominciarono in questo nuovo anno i miei concatenati dolori “a rendersi 
piu sensibili”, i quali sempre pil’ esacerbandosi, per proprio esperimento 
mi fecer conoscere che la fortuna non comincia mai per poco. 

(Giannone, Vita 234) 


La vicenda umana e la parabola letteraria e filosofica in Giannone si intersecano 
e si corrispondono strettamente, entrambe segnate dallo spartiacque traumatico e 
decisivo dell’esilio.' La stessa impostazione edificante ed esemplare della 
autobiografia risente in misura determinante di una visione paradigmatica che 
interessa gli eventi chiave di un’esistenza travagliata dal trauma della 
separazione rispetto al contesto culturale ed affettivo originario, ma soprattutto 
segnata dal ripetersi costante ed inesorabile di una serie concatenata e ciclica di 
dolori, generati dall’esilio forzato iniziale, ma alimentati dalla incessante 
persecuzione ecclesiastica e curiale. II Proemio illustra in forma affastellata e 
caotica le tematiche essenziali orbitanti intorno all’esilio, che saranno sviluppate 
pill distesamente ed ordinatamente nel corso della trattazione, a cominciare dalla 
decisione di compilare l’autobiografia in circostanze disagiate ed oppressive che 
impediscono di tramandare all’esterno la propria esperienza intellettuale 
secondo i canali convenzionali, con |’intento di costruire sapientemente un 
documento letterario e umano che immortali la condizione universale del 
cittadino virtuoso oppresso dalla corruzione del sistema degradato e degradante 
che lo circonda. Si alternano e si compongono a ritmo febbrile ed in ordine 
sparso, nell’incalzante flusso delle argomentazioni addotte dal recluso e 
sfiduciato Giannone, la consapevolezza di una vita non eccezionale o 
memorabile ma ordinaria e dignitosa, sottoposta tuttavia a vessazioni 
intollerabili ed emblematica di una determinata, sfavorevole e perigliosa, 
temperie storico-culturale; l’onta della congiura e della maldicenza; la necessita 
morale di ripristinare la verita storica e documentaria dei fatti, distorti dagli 
artificiosi commenti mistificatori dei suoi detrattori, basati su dati falsificati e 
spuri ed agevolati anche dalla irrimediabile perdita dei propri scritti, unici 


' P. Giannone, Vita 85-336. Per un approfondimento critico e bibliografico, si consulti 
Bertelli 340-66. 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


188 Nicola Bietolini 


depositari del vero pensiero dell’autore. 

Giannone evidenzia cosi il carattere esemplare delle vicissitudini di un 
proscritto, rivelatore dell’iniquita dell’italiano settecentesco che vanifica il 
desiderio di virtt e di conoscenza in studi sterili e superficiali; in ultima analisi, 
emerge prepotentemente alla ribalta la inquietante decadenza dei costumi morali 
che alimenta la schiaviti materiale e la sudditanza psicologica nei confronti del 
dominatore straniero: 


Prendo a scrivere la mia vita e quanto siami accaduto nel corso della medesima, non gia 
che io presuma di proporla a’ lettori per esempio da imitare le virth forse da me 
esercitate, o da sfuggire i vizi de’ quali fui contaminato; ovvero perché contenesse fatti 
egregi e memorandi e fuor del corso ordinario delle umane cose adoperati—poiché son 
persuaso che, sicome in me non furono estreme virti od estrema dottrina da imitare, cosi 
mi lusingo che non vi saran estremi vizi oppure estrema ignoranza da fuggire. Prendo a 
scriverla perché, trovandomi ritenuto fra le angustie d’un castello, dove privo di ogni 
umano commercio traggo miseramente i miei giorni; e dubitando, per la mia eta cadente, 
non dovessi quivi finirla [...]. Sono ancora a cid spinto dal riflettere che, avendomi il mio 
destino condannato ad esser bersaglio dell’invida maladicenza di molti miei nemici, i 
quali non meno presero a malmenare i miei libri che a detrarre e malignare le mie azioni, 
intendo che gli amatori della verita ne abbiano una sincera e fedele narrazione, e non si 
dia occasione a’ maligni di oscurarle, 0 vividamente rapportarle. E poiché, dopo il mio 
naufragio, vari miei scritti andarono sparsi di qua e di la, perché tutti sappiano separare i 
veri da falsi, che potrebbero gli invidiosi, forse, a me ascrivere, manifesto qui fedelmente, 
uno per uno, quali fosser i miei propri e legittimi parti. Ma soprattutto prendo a scriverla 
perché sia a gli altri di documento, e specialmente a gli uomini probi ed onesti ed amanti 
del vero, quanto sia per essi dura e malagevole la strada che avran da calcare per passar la 
loro in questo mondo liberi e sicuri, fra la turba di gente improba ed infedele e tra 
l’infinito numero degli sciocchi e de’ malvagi, massimamente a chi avra sortito la 
disgrazia di nascere sotto grave e pesante cielo, ed in terreno servo e soggetto e ferace di 
pungenti spine e d’inestricabili pruni e triboli [...] Forse potra anche riuscire di loro utile, 
in leggendo nel corso della medesima quanto gli uomini sovente si affatichino indarno fra 
studi vani ed inutili, e le preziose ore del tempo inutilmente consumino fra le ricerche di 
cose vane che niente conducono, né per reggere la nostra vita nella strada della virtu [...] 
né per illuminare le nostri menti nelle cognizioni delle scienze utili e necessarie; anzi per 
maggiormente invilupparle tra questioni vane ed astratte. Delle quali, doppo essersi 
lungamente affaticati, ne sapranno molto meno di prima, quando cominciarono ad 


investigarle. 
(Vita 3-4) 


Questo incombente ostacolo alla libera propagazione dei saggi storico-giuridici 
sfocia in una messa al bando non solo della persona fisica di Giannone, ma, 
umiliazione pitt cogente, dei suoi scritti. Si instaura cosi il circolo vizioso 
cruciale che travaglia ed inibisce la produzione autobiografica e filosofico- 
giuridica del riformatore napoletano; tale reiterazione ossessiva della stessa 
sequenza di paradigmi culturali ed esistenziali ad un tempo viene rispecchiata 


I “concatenati dolori”’: il tema dell’esilio in Pietro Giannone 189 


fedelmente, con l’aggiunta di una retrospettiva venatura fatalistica, nella 
rievocazione autobiografica. La costellazione di poli tematici emblematici si 
articola in una triade di categorie semantico-culturali onnipresenti e 
complementari. La scrittura consiste nella proposizione del proprio pensiero con 
fini pedagogici e morali e nella investigazione introspettiva delle ragioni 
esistenziali e psicologiche delle formulazioni teoretiche pit ardite e polemiche. 
La censura implica l’esclusione dal circuito comunicativo della cultura ufficiale 
tramite una proscrizione dispotica arbitraria e priva di riscontri probanti con il 
testo, seguita dalla pubblicazione su commissione curiale di opuscoli polemici e 
denigratori, che veicolano un’immagine deformante e palesemente scorretta sul 
piano filologico-ecdotico della originale fattura filosofica insita nelle opere di 
Giannone. La logica conseguenza degli stadi precedenti del calvario ideologico 
di Giannone é rappresentata dalla stampa clandestina, cioé dalla circolazione 
limitata, occulta ed alternativa alla edizione corrente, di un numero esiguo di 
copie degli scritti composti durante l’esilio, sottoposti ad una sorta di 
autocensura preventiva per renderli meno indigesti all’inquisizione ecclesiastica 
e destinarli ad una cerchia di mentori ed amici; essi rivestono la duplice 
funzione di salvaguardare comunque un legame con la cultura italiana e di 
rettificare le calunnie e le estrapolazioni od interpolazioni infamanti compiute 
dagli estensori dell’Indice pontificio, e dai loro scrivani ideologicamente 
scorretti, per garantirsi una documentazione difensiva autentica e accurata, 
corredata anche da sorvegliate e certificate versioni in lingua straniera tese a 
ristabilire la propria reputazione etica e specialistica all’estero.” Questa 
combinazione di fattori condizionanti esercita il suo influsso decisivo sulle 
teorie giannoniane, principalmente nefasto, ma in parte anche foriero di un 
ripensamento degli aspetti pit radicali della dottrina giurisdizionalista circa 
l’equilibrio gerarchico tra il primato politico e civile del potere temporale laico e 
lo statuto legittimo del potere spirituale ecclesiastico.’ Del resto, la tendenza a 





2 Per il continuo contessersi, con poche e scarne varianti secondarie rispetto ad un 
denominatore simbolico esplicito e costante, dei temi summenzionati e |’importanza 
risolutiva della scelta di ricorrere ad edizioni tipografiche mirate per la diffusione 
settoriale delle proprie teorie specialistiche, si passino in rassegna a titolo 
esemplificativo: Vita 70 sgg.; 90 sgg.; 97 sgg.; 117 sgg. 

3 Sull’evoluzione del pensiero di Giannone si veda un’illuminante riflessione del 
pensatore napoletano circa il carattere collaudato delle sue dottrine e la esplicita referenza 
alle fonti storiografiche pid autorevoli: “Come se io insegnassi cose nuove, e non gia 
vecchie, scritte da’ pili accurati, dotti, seri e gravi scrittori, che io, fuor del costume degli 
altri storici, additava nel margine, perché ciascuno potesse riscontrargli e non si 
abbandonasse alla sola mia narrazione; sicché io soleva dire a coloro che mal riferivano, 
che mi mostrassero qual fosse questa nuova dottrina che io insegnava, giacché mi 
riputavano capo d’una nuova setta” (Vita 132). Si consideri anche l’ammissione di una 
radicale svolta programmatica nello studio antropologico-filosofico, che slitta da una 
prospettiva esclusivamente teorica e tecnico-giuridica ad un piano pil eclettico, 


190 Nicola Bietolini 


discostarsi dalla tradizione di un insegnamento superficiale ed inadeguato ed a 
correggerne le mende pit vistose tramite integrazioni argute e personali si 
evidenzia fin dal giudizio caustico espresso sul suo primo maestro; questi viene 
esplicitamente bollato da Giannone di incompetenza giuridica ed ottuso 
autoritarismo, ma soprattutto stigmatizzato per la mancanza di acribia filologica 
e di dimestichezza diretta con i testi primari affrontati impropriamente non sulla 
scorta dell’originale ma tramite compendi arbitrari e denigratori, come lo 
studioso napoletano evince da un confronto sinottico e sistematico con altre 
fonti pit valide ed acclarate: 


Giunsi in Napoli ne’ principi del mese di marzo 1694, da que’ ai quali io fui 
raccomandato, non per mancanza di affetto, ma per poca conoscenza che aveano de’ pit 
insigni professori di legge civile e canonica in casa d’un lettore, il quale, secondo che col 
progresso e piu per |’avvertimento di altri pil saggi conobbi dapoi, poco sapeva dell’una 
e meno dell’altra, del di cui nome io non voglio per cid ricordarmi; poiché, oltre ad 
insegnare sopra alcuni scritti da altri scipitamente composti, l’avea ripieni d’inutili 
questioni [...] e se io le leggi ed i canoni che si allegavano voleva cercarli e riscontrargli 
nel Corpo del ius civile o canonico, 0 non le trovava affatto, o pure le ravvisava tutte mal 
a proposito alligate, guaste e non intese: cid che mi dava indizio che il mio maestro erasi 
poggiato su l’altrui fede, non ch’egli l’avesse mai lette ed osservate. Posto in questa 
confusione ed intrighi, da’ quali, come poteva meglio, m’andava distrigando colla lettura 
de’ testi originali e con comunicare le mie difficolta ad altri d’eta e di dottrina pid 
avanzata, de’ quali io cominciava ad acquistar conoscenza ed amicizia [...]. 

(Vita 8-9) 


Il crocevia decisivo per l’allineamento dei poli della scrittura e della censura 
sul versante obbligato dell’esilio, cioé dell’esclusione dalla liberta di espressione 
e di circolazione della propria persona e delle proprie idee nel contesto culturale 
d’appartenenza, coincide con la pubblicazione del trattato storico-politico /storia 
civile del Regno di Napoli (1723, Vita 68-76). Giannone descrive 
dettagliatamente l’occasione e le circostanze della edizione dell’opera, 
delineando un modello rappresentativo che risultera costante e sara replicato a 
piu riprese nel corso dell’autobiografia ed assume quindi un carattere 
paradigmatico. Esso é costituito dalla stampa in tiratura limitata con dediche 
mirate; dalla censura ufficiale della Chiesa; dalla divulgazione clandestina, 
frammentaria e incompleta dell’opera, che esula dalla cerchia limitata dei 
destinatari indicati dall’autore e si sparge in infinite versioni parziali ed anomale 
presso un bacino di utenza abnorme ed incontrollabile; dalla conseguente 
proscrizione ecclesiastica dell’opera e del suo autore che innesca una nuova 
smentita da parte dell’ interessato e riavvia |’intero processo circolare: 


frammisto di cognizioni storiche e culturali mutuate dalle fonti documentarie antiche e di 
intuizioni illuministe (Vita 193 sgg.). 


I “concatenati dolori”’: il tema dell’esilio in Pietro Giannone 191 


Compita la stampa, e fatti condurre gli essemplari in mia casa, al numero di mille — che 
tanti se ne imprimerono in carta ordinaria, ed altri cento in carta reale, col ritratto 
dell’imperadore, a chi I’opera era stata dedicata, e con mia divota lettera al medesimo 
consacrata, — ne feci di questi ligar uno nobilmente ornato, e lo presentai al cardinal 
viceré [...]. Di questi medesimi essemplari di carta reale ne feci ligar altri, e gli presentai, 
uno per uno, a tutti i reggenti del Collaterale ed a gli altri supremi ministri a cui eran 
dovuti, i quali, oltre di cortesemente ricevergli, me ne rendettero molte grazie. Presentai 
de’ consimili esemplari, uno per uno, a tutti gli Eletti della citta di Napoli, in nome della 
quale mi furon rese le grazie, accompagnate con un dono d’argento, in memoria della 
loro gratitudine, e con eleggermi avvocato ordinario della Citta. Altro esemplare, 
riccamente ornato, come quello che doveva presentarsi alla Maesta di Cesare, fu disposto 
per l’imperial corte di Vienna, insieme con altri esemplari che doveano presentarsi al 
presidente, a’ reggenti ed altri consiglieri, secretari e ministri, che componevano in 
Vienna il Consiglio di Spagna [...]. Non passarono quindici giorni, che leggendosi questa 
mia opera a pezzi, quasi tutti si arrestavano a gli ultimi capitoli de’ libri ove trattasi della 
politica ecclesiastica; e dall’indice de’ capitoli scoperta |’idea dell’opera, sembrd nuova e 
da altri non ancora tentata. Alla plebe de’ letterati e degli avvocati, ed a’ mezzi dotti cid 
reco invidia, e con lividi occhi cominciarono a leggerla, attenti a notare solamente cid che 
ne’ capitoli della politica ecclesiastica sembrava loro di strano; poiché, ignari dell’ origine 
€ progressi di questo Stato, credevano che il mondo cosi fosse sempre stato, com’essi 
l’avean trovato: e sentendo da’ profondi e dotti uomini lodarla, cid maggiormente aguzz6 
l’invida loro maladicenza. 

(Vita 70-71) 


Giannone accusa la plebe dei mediocri, accidentale ed indebita esaminatrice 
di uno scritto complesso e riservato ad un pubblico di specialisti, di un 
atteggiamento invidioso e astioso, dettato dal complesso di inferiorita stimolato 
da un’opera pregevole, lodata da un consesso di illustri studiosi e apprezzata 
nelle alte sfere del potere imperiale e laico. Questa pregiudiziale si sposa 
perfettamente con la insinuazione e |l’ipotesi forzata ed incongruente con il 
profilo intellettuale indipendente e solitario di Giannone che questi si sia 
umiliato a plagiare una fantomatica e non meglio identificata fonte manoscritta, 
ora attribuita all’ Argento, ora all’ Aulisio, entrambi ligi e compassati raccoglitori 
di dati archivistici, la cui statura culturale si situa certo ad un livello 
incomparabilmente inferiore rispetto a quella dell’inclito e accreditato esperto 
partenopeo di diritto civile e canonico (Vita 71-72). L’ambiguo carattere 
inquisitorio della censura curiale si manifesta nei due strumenti persecutori 
complementari della diffamazione e della falsificazione di prove a carico 
dell’indagato, mediante la diffusione di una versione mistificata e spuria del 
testo in questione. Questa operazione di contraffazione semantica della matrice 
filosofica e teorica originaria della Istoria si rivela talmente stringente e 
soffocante da indurre l’autore ad una veemente smentita, ad una rettifica 
documentata e circostanziata, coincidente con la stesura e la pubblicazione di 
uno scritto apologetico del proprio pensiero. Tale strategia ha anche lo scopo 
parallelo di delineare le tesi incriminate e di smussarne gli aspetti pit scabrosi in 


192 Nicola Bietolini 


accordo con una revisione tattica e diplomatica che ne ridefinisce piu 
oculatamente i contorni concettuali e ne rafforza i margini di ammissibilita 
all’interno del codice culturale canonico vigente, dedito alla sistematica 
demonizzazione ed alla distorsione interpretativa premeditata di ogni atto 
eversivo, od omissione, da parte dell’imputato di eresia: 


E poiché fra |’altre imposture si era dato a credere che io reputassi lecito il concubinato, 
non capendo — o non volendo intendere — che io parlava dell’antico concubinato de’ 
Romani; alcuni, confondendo questo concubinato colla semplice fornicazione, riputarono 
che io non la tenessi per peccaminosa. La qual dottrina a molti, i quali forse n’eran 
contaminati, piaceva assai; onde uno di costoro, sedendo io a’ tribunali, mi si accosto e, 
presami forte la mano, me la strinse, dicendomi che finalmente avea io discoverta questa 
verita [...]. Allora, con riso anch’io, gli replicai [...] che io non parlava ivi della semplice 
fornicazione, ma del concubinato antico de’ Romani, riputato lecita congiunzione, ch’era 
tutto altro di quello che al presente si intende, e molto differente [...]. Da questa falsa 
credenza, e dall’aver i monaci, fra |’altre calunnie, addossatemi, sparso da per tutto che io 
riputassi lecito il concubinato presente, fui costretto, per disingannar i semplici, di dar 
fuori una dissertazione, non perd data alle stampe: Dell’antico concubinato de’ Romani 
ritenuto nell’Imperio anche doppo la conversione di Costantino Magno. 

(Vita 74) 


Lo schema generale dell’opera saggistica a carattere esplicativo, intesa 
come memoria difensiva e commento divulgativo ed esegetico al trattato 
specialistico accusato di eterodossia ed oscurita, si mantiene inalterato in tutta la 
parabola letteraria susseguente all’esilio e potrebbe essere eletto a contrassegno 
inconfondibile di tutta la produzione saggistica giannoniana a partire dal 1723 in 
poi.’ Ad ogni riaffacciarsi della condanna dell’Indice, Giannone risponde 
puntualmente annunciando la realizzazione e la circolazione, circoscritta ad una 
elite di estimatori ed amici, di un nuovo trattato chiarificatore. 

La descrizione delle vicende tribolate che accompagnano la partenza 
affrettata per Vienna lascia trasparire la tipica predilezione dello studioso 
napoletano per la sua biblioteca personale. In questa fase iniziale del suo 
calvario itinerante per I’Italia e l’Europa alla ricerca di una nuova identita 
geografica e culturale omogenea al suo status di intellettuale libero ed 
indipendente, la cura meticolosa nella salvaguardia delle proprie opere 
manoscritte riveste un significato quasi sacrale e salvifico, in grado di garantire 
un’immunita spirituale dalle imminenti bolle di scomunica artificiosamente 
sancite dalla corrotta e manipolatrice burocrazia curiale; le notizie calunniose sul 
suo conto vengono divulgate da fogli pubblici di sospetta inattendibilita perché 
diramati dal potere ufficiale, tanto da sollecitare una verifica sulla scrittura 
privata del fratello, in un paradossale e allarmante ribaltamento gerarchico di 
affidabilita tra comunicati statali contraffatti e missive personali veritiere. La 


* Vita 96-98; 123 sgg.; 132 sgg.; 148 sgg.; 197 sgg. 


I “concatenati dolori”’: il tema dell’esilio in Pietro Giannone 193 


omissione censoria della partenza forzata di Giannone é finalizzata a spacciarlo 
per un transfuga ed a precludergli la possibilita di elaborare una linea difensiva, 
tramite la mancata consegna della citazione che contiene il fantomatico ed 
insussistente dispositivo documentario del provvedimento, ragione per la quale 
il giurista argomenta il diritto di appellarsi in favore dell’annullamento della 
sentenza di scomunica. Nella rete intricata di corrispondenze negative tra vari 
livelli di scrittura ufficiale adulterata ed infamante, si innesta perfettamente la 
subdola maldicenza diffusa verbalmente, e quindi in una forma inconfutabile ed 
aleatoria, ma anche esiziale ed irreparabile, da monaci al servizio della 
Inquisizione, al fine di screditare la reputazione dello storico nella citta natale, di 
isolarlo dai suoi concittadini ed espellerlo alla stregua di un corpo estraneo dal 
tessuto socio-culturale di riferimento: 


Vedendo, adunque, il tutto riposto alla discrezione di que’ curiali, pensai affrettar 
maggiormente la mia partenza per Vienna; tanto pil che si avvicinava il primo sabato di 
maggio, che in quest’anno 1723 veniva a cadere al primo di del mese [...] e fatti 
prestamente riporre pil’ essemplari dell’opera dentro una cassa, che portai meco, con 
quello gia apparecchiato per Cesare, partii da Napoli, verso la fine di aprile, per 
Manfredonia, dove credeva trovar pronto imbarco per Fiume o Trieste. In questo mio 
viaggio da Napoli a Manfredonia fu d’uopo che io cambiassi nome, poiché, in passando 
per gli alberghi, non trovava osteria nella quale da’ viandanti partiti da Napoli per loro 
affari non si parlasse che del fatto mio; e, se vi capitava qualche frate 0 monaco, i discorsi 
ed i contrasti erano pil lunghi e fervorosi, che io sovente sentiva colle proprie orecchie, 
chi prendendo un partito, e chi un altro; e con stupore, mi avvidi che i monaci ne aveano 
empite le province e tutti i loro conventi [...]. Giunsi a Vienna ne’ principi di giugno [...] 
io era da molti con impazienza aspettato, resi curiosi non pur da’ privati avvisi venuti da 
Napoli della mia partenza, ma da pil gazzette pubbliche che ne parlavano, che me le 
porto a leggere; ed in quelle lessi non pur la mia partenza, ma la scomunica, che la corte 
arcivescovile di Napoli aveami lanciata appresso; e credendola una delle solite fole de’ 
gazzettieri, mi affrettai ad aprir il piego, che mio fratello mi mandava da Napoli, ¢ trovai 
che quelle dicevan vero. Poiché m’avvisava che il vicario, credendo che io stassi 
nascosto, non gia che fossi partito, mando un cursore della sua Curia in mia casa col 
monitorio, per intimarmelo; e dicendogli mio fratello che io non vi era, gli rispose che 
avea ordine di lasciarlo a chiunque trovava in casa, e che stasse pur sicuro che avrebbe 
fatta sua relazione d’averlo cosi lasciato [...]. Ma poiché il vicario avea in testa in tutte le 
maniere volermi scomunicare, dicendo che nel mio caso non era bisogno di citazione, 
essendo notoria la mia trasgressione di non aver cercata licenza della sua Curia di 
stampar |’opera — [...] non si ristette, mentr’io era in viaggio, contro un assente scagliar 
sua scomunica ed affigger cedoloni per tutti gli angoli della citta; e fu notato d’avergli 
affissi anche se ne’ luoghi insoliti pit bassi della citta, dove pit: numerosa la vil plebe, 


perché anche per questa via mi rendesse pit odioso alla cieca multitudine. 
(Vita 79-80; 84-85) 


Si configura sempre pil chiaramente nella rappresentazione autobiografica 
un’antitesi irriducibile tra la sfera semantica a carattere geografico-culturale 


194 Nicola Bietolini 


della ostile e scostante patria, simulacro dell’oscurantismo dispotico, sottomessa 
al giogo pontificio dell’ Inquisizione e mantenuta in stato di arretratezza culturale 
da un’oligarchia arbitraria di burocrati e censori, e l’ospitale ed accogliente 
territorio europeo, oasi di progresso civile e di indipendenza individuale, 
prototipo di cosmopolitismo ideale e di tolleranza universale e fucina di indomiti 
e liberi ingegni, in grado di sviluppare serenamente le proprie facolta creative e 
potenzialita conoscitive, in una paritetica comunita di intenti che si manifesta in 
uno spontaneo e solerte associazionismo intellettuale, sorretto da una proficua 
osmosi di stimoli culturali e dalla concorde legittimazione ideologica dei suoi 
illustri sodali.*° Il riscatto agognato dalle umiliazioni subite ad opera del 
complotto ecclesiastico avviene all’insegna di un generale risveglio di interesse 
nei suoi confronti da parte delle pit importanti autorita politiche e culturali 
internazionali che reclamano unanimi l’onore di apprezzare il trattato nella sua 
prestigiosa versione originale e sollecitano l’invio di altre opere specialistiche, 
caldeggiando di fatto la creazione di un circolo variegato ma autorevole di 
destinatari ideali del pensiero innovativo di Giannone.® 

Se tuttavia sul piano della reputazione morale e intellettuale il soggiorno a 
Vienna e a Ginevra si rivela un trionfo indiscusso, per il consenso unanime e 
Yalta risonanza che riscuotono la dottrina e la personalita del pensatore 
partenopeo, ben diversamente si pone la questione spinosa relativa alla necessita 
impellente, mai soddisfatta completamente, di sottrarsi realmente alla 
giurisdizione ecclesiastica. La persecuzione dell’Inquisizione non conosce 
frontiere culturali o nazionali e prosegue incessante anche all’estero, riducendo 
progressivamente, ad un ritmo inesorabile, i margini gia assottigliati di liberta di 
pensiero e di azione, fino ad annichilirli irrimediabilmente tramite l’arresto e la 
reclusione definitiva nel castello di Miolans, che sancisce |’irrevocabile 
condanna alla segregazione materiale e simbolica dal mondo della cultura 
europea, il troncamento netto dei legami con |’ambiente filosofico cosmopolita 
saggiato in precedenza e, soprattutto, la rescissione inappellabile dell’autore 
censurato, e dunque oscurato totalmente in patria, dal sistema editoriale 
internazionale che regola il circuito pubblicistico e garantisce la diffusione delle 
opere stampate (Vita 325-36). Dopo l’incarcerazione Giannone lascia solo 
frammenti aneddotici e annotazioni quotidiane sparse e sconnesse di 
un’autobiografia ormai divenuta sterile ed improduttiva, che si riduce a 


° In merito alla trionfale fortuna di Giannone all’estero, grazie alla diffusione capillare 
della /storia in tutti i paesi pil avanzati culturalmente, ed al conseguente accentuarsi della 
sua prospettiva cosmopolita, aperta ed antidogmatica, si confrontino Vita 89-92; 110 sgg.; 
130 sgg., 155 sgg.; 172-73; 178 sgg. 

° Tra gli estimatori pit ferventi si annoverano il Riccardi (Vita 89-92); I’Imperatore in 
persona (Vita 102-03); il cavalier Garelli, medico a Corte (Vita 108-10). Per un breve 
periodo si costituisce anche un cenacolo di ammiratori tra i letterati veneziani: Vita 257- 
58. 


I “concatenati dolori’’: il tema dell’esilio in Pietro Giannone 195 


registrare unicamente il fallimento pragmatico — contrappunto doloroso del 
successo etico ed ideale che gli arride presso gli esperti del settore — del suo 
contenzioso secolare con l’arrogante ed accentratore potere religioso.’ 
Quest’ultimo giunge a vietargli di editare altri scritti o anche di sorvegliare le 
numerosi traduzioni in lingua straniera autorizzate, su commissione di acclarate 
istituzioni o incliti personaggi del mondo storico, politico, ma anche giuridico e 
filosofico, da lui in passato sempre curate scrupolosamente, con attenzione 
minuziosa alla fedele trasposizione del pensiero originale, in quanto riguardate 
come una sorta di testimonianze certificate per la posterita della obiettivita 
metodologica che sostanzia le sue investigazioni teoriche.® 

L’ansia di evasione dagli angusti schemi dottrinari dominanti naufraga 
miseramente sullo scoglio insormontabile di una censura aprioristica e 
protocollare, sintetizzata nella formula latina sclerotizzata, deterrente per ogni 
barlume di confronto dialettico, adottata canonicamente dall’Indice per 
sottintendere, esimendosi dal comprovarlo con il riscontro testuale, il presunto 
carattere eterodosso ed ereticale delle tesi dell’inquisito; questa dicitura arcana e 
sentenziosa distende sul suo operato un velo di delegittimazione sistematica ed 
emarginante, destinato ad espungere dal repertorio letterario ogni scritto sospetto 
che si ispiri o contenga anche una semplice citazione occasionale dell’architesto 
proibito: 


Fu adunque proibita la mia opera, non gia che quella Congregazione di Roma istessa ed i 
suoi qualificatori avesser potuto ravvisare in essa alcuna preposizione ereticale, ma 
perché, secondo le loro massime, la credettero contenere proposizioni erronee, empie, 
offensive, alle pie orecchie, calunniose, scismatiche, che rovesciavano la gerarchia 
ecclesiastica, ingiuriose alla Santa Sede e che sapessero d’eresia. Ciascun sa che in Roma 
si é introdotto formolario di queste proibizioni e non vi é libro, che si opponga alle sue 


’ Si veda il passo premonitore in cui si adombra |’ineluttabilita della detenzione e la 
dolorosa constatazione dell’isolamento culturale definitivo: “Pochi giorni dopo il mio 
arrivo a Miolans ricevei dal general comandante Picon una gentilissima lettera de’ 11 
aprile [...] nella quale [...] mi imponeva che le mie robe, scritture e quanto avea lasciato 
a Ginevra le facessi pervenire a Champéry, in sue mani, che avrebbe egli pensato di 
mandarmele. Compresi da cid, che non si voleva che io pit pensassi al ritorno di Ginevra 
[...] scrissi a monsieur Fernet che que’ miei pochi libri, scritture e il forziere [...] 
gl’inviasse a Champéry; e sopra tutto, aspettando io da Milano i manuscritti che dovean 
servire per la stampa del quindo tomo [...] gli mandasse pure a Champéry, al governatore 
[...] siccome lo stesso dicesse al Pellissari, che intorno alla traduzione francese pensasse 
ad altri, poiché io non poteva pit pensarci, disciogliendo con ambidue ogni trattato [...]. 
Di questa e di altre mie lettere scritte a Milano non ebbi alcun riscontro; e avendomi detto 
il comandante Le Blanc che non occorreva scriver pil a Milano, non potendo ricever altre 
mie lettere, se non quelle che scriveva a Champéry ed a Ginevra, compresi che non si 
mandarono; né potei saper mai se i manuscritti che aspettavo da Milano si fosser mandati 
a Ginevra, ovvero fosser rimasti ivi, o capitati in altre mani” (Vita 328-29). 

8 Vita 155-56; 174-79; 270-71; 296 sgg.; 301; 307; 313-14. 


196 Nicola Bietolini 


massime, che non vi stia soggetto. E a’ qualificatori costa poca fatica, cosi perché non 
espongono le loro censure a gli autori, affinché si difendano, ma si guardano bene di 
tenerle segrete ed ascose, come anche perché non sono astretti a separatamente 
manifestare quali fossero le proposizioni scismatiche, empie, ingiuriose, erronee, etc.; ma 
se ne sbrigano con una sola parola, respective, e cosi lasciano gli autori ed i lettori in 
maggior confusione ed oscurita di prima.[...] A cid si aggiunge che, proibendo ogni libro, 
che non sia conforme alle sue idee, ne ricava, che se mai questo libro volesse in qualche 
contesa allegarsi, ancorché scritto da persona cattolica, savia, dotta e di autorita, e 
contenente dottrina sana, si sbrigano presto per la risposta e senza impegnarsi ad altro, 
basta, perché non facci alcuna autorita e riesca di niun peso, che si dichi esser dottrina di 
libro proibito e dannato. 

(Vita 93-94) 


La stessa costellazione di fattori semantici orbitanti intorno al dilemma del 
nesso tra produzione culturale e censura durante I’ infinito travaglio dell’esilio si 
definisce come espropriazione degli affetti personali ed esclusione dall’ambiente 
sociale di appartenenza. Questa correlazione significativa si ritrova tradotta in 
un linguaggio pil sorvegliato e composto, levigato dall’adozione di un 
diaframma retorico di ascendenza illustre e radicato nella tradizione letteraria 
italiana, nel poemetto parenetico ed eroico di argomento storico-allegorico e di 
intonazione eroica e celebrativa intitolato scontatamente “L’esule” e composto 
nell’immediata reazione al trauma della dipartita precipitosa da Napoli.’ Si 
riscontrano tuttavia due macroscopiche diversita strutturali ed estetiche. In 
primo luogo, risalta il trapasso dalla impostazione autobiografica oggettivante, 
che impone una sostanziale aderenza alla realta documentabile dei fatti e dei 
comportamenti propri ed altrui, ad una concezione poetica trasfigurante, che 
mette in secondo piano gli aspetti esteriori della vicenda e focalizza il piano 
dell’opera sulle tematiche chiave di ordine psicologico ed_ esistenziale, 
consentendo un’ampia liberta di invenzione creativa.'° In secondo luogo, si 
assiste alla amplificazione retorica della figura di Giannone che da vittima 
impotente dei soprusi del potere si tramuta nell’esule per antonomasia, nello 
strenuo difensore dei valori civili e morali che ritorna in una patria disegnata a 
tinte fosche e sinistre e devastata dall’impronta corruttrice dell’invasore, allo 
scopo di rivedere la famiglia per vendicarsi nel nome di un ideale di giustizia 
assoluto e incontrovertibile: 


Alla barchetta incontro i pescatori 
Tutti a gara concorrono, e agli estrani 
offron la preda di che il mar fu largo. 


* D’ora in poi solo “L’esule”, seguito dal numero romano del canto, da quello arabo del 
verso, ricostruito manualmente vista l’assenza di indicazioni nel testo originale, e da 
quello di pagina. Per un approfondimento storico e documentario, Spallicci 43-58. 

10 <7 >esule”, I, vv.126-142, p.9; III, vv.1-340, pp.37 sgg.; VI, vv.24-110, pp.110 sgg. 





I “concatenati dolori”’: il tema dell’esilio in Pietro Giannone 197 


Soli Enrico e ’! figliuol, sebben curvati 
sovra i remi sudassero, pit tardi 

giunser perché piu lungi, e invan di pochi 
pesci fer mostra. I marinai stranieri, 

due forme erculee, azzurri i rai, le chiome 
bionde, alle offerte lor risposta fero 

con un sogghigno di pieta, schernendo 

o lor poca destrezza, o lor fortuna: 
mentre gli altri cantando, all’acque loro 
tornavano e balzar nella dischiusa 

mano facean |’avuto prezzo. Enrico 
profondamente respiré, con gli occhi 
fermi sovra g]l’ignoti, e tanta il guardo 
spird mestizia, e si dolente all’aure 
schiuse il sospiro, che giurato avresti 
cagion diversa da cagion si leve 

lun e l’altro eccitar. Come riscosso 

da sonno, allor si tolse onde giacea 

un terzo sconosciuto: ampio ed oscuro 
mantello aperse che il volgea, la manca 
mosse a fermar de’ suoi |’impetuosa 
voga e dell’altra al pescator fe’ cenno 
D’approssimarsi “Ecco, diss’ei con chiara 
Italica favella, allor che giunte 

fur le due prode, eccovi in parte il prezzo 
delle vostre fatiche” ed al sospeso 
giovinetto la man prese, che grave 

d’oro a sé la ritrasse. Alto stupore 

se gli dipinse in volto € ver, ma tanto 

non fu, che immota fra le fauci affissa 

gli ristesse la voce, e volse i lumi 

d’acuta gioia splendidi alla riva, 

questi mandando affettuosi accenti 

dal cor commosso. Oh madre, oh suora mia, 
bambinella innocente! Io lo dicea; 

veglia il Cielo su voi, veglia e da lunge 
nobil alma ne invia: questi d’aspetto 

e di cor generoso.[...]. 

Ah! Quella voce, quando ben s’ascolta, 
dolce suona all’orecchio, ed al pensiero 
sembra dir che non é la prima volta. 
Straniero par, ma sara poi straniero 

l’uom che vedemmo, Edmondo? 

E tu sapresti in luce trar da si gran nebbia il vero? 
No; ma pur lo vorrei: che, sebben mesti 
gli atti, e mesto il sembiante, e mesto il suono 
della voce che nota a noi vorresti 


198 Nicola Bietolini 


tratto ver lui soavemente io sono; 
e certo l’uom che gli infelici aita, 
noto o no, sia qual vuolsi, é sempre buono. 
Giovine e bello par, ma illanguidita 
sembrano averne la belta primiera 
tutte le angosce d’una lunga vita. 
Pur su quel volto, che non fia quel ch’era, 
brilla un raggio di vivido splendore, 
segno d’un’alma indomita ed altera; [...]. 
(I, vv.54-96, pp. 12-13) 


Procellosa é la notte, inconsueta 

nella stagion che volge, e mal viaggio 

avra il nocchier, cui di bianca paura 

in volto spesso tingera l’aspetto 

della terra temuta, ove lo spinge 

libeccio impetuoso.— Oh! del nocchiero 

abbia pietade il ciel; ch’oltre ogni stima 

Fiera su l’onde fremera fortuna [...]. 

Vero é quel che ne udii? Cento infelici, 

che lui dicean cagion d’ogni sventura, 

ne deturpar la fama, ed il suo nome 

ne’ lidi estrani un traditor gia suona, 

parla; é causa egli ancor del mio viaggio. 
(II, vv.28-35, pp.24-25) 


Ma nell’istante che le spalle diede 

alla infelice, circondato e stretto 

da varia gente ei fu: d’Emilia in traccia 
la mandava la madre, paurosa 

del suo sparire e della sua dimora. 

Essi in veder la giovane prostrata, 
pallida, semiviva, e lui fuggente 

in atto d’uom, cui sdegno ad una, e tema 
e ribrezzo assaliscano, fur presi 

da strano error. Morte all’iniquo! grida 
ciascun di loro, all’assassino! E intorno 
schiamazzando lo serrano, rabbiosi 

e risoluti, come chi s’aizzi 

d’amata cosa a vendicar I’ offesa. 
L’esule non s’arresta, e, da maggiore 
cagion sospinto, i pill vicini investe 
ferocemente e li rovescia, e s’apre 

un varco sui caduti. A tergo, a’ fianchi 
prorompon gli altri, e per cammin, che certo 
scer non vorria, lo cacciano; e dovunque 
a’ fianchi a tergo d’abbattuti é pieno 


I “concatenati dolori”: il tema dell’esilio in Pietro Giannone 199 


il calle indarno contrastato.[...]. 
(VI, vv.1-23, pp.109-10) 


La proiezione avventurosa e mitica dello squallido e desolante episodio 
dell’arresto, trasformato in una memorabile impresa di resistenza epica, denota 
la volonta di non lasciarsi abbattere dalle sventure e di interporre |’assennato 
schermo della riflessione letteraria all’incalzare vertiginoso di un tragico destino 
persecutorio. Quasi a sinistro presagio, 0, pil propriamente, presentimento della 
irrevocabilita della scomunica e della conseguente reiezione dal tessuto civile e 
culturale, Giannone trasferisce le sue strenue e trepidanti speranze di una 
riabilitazione umana e scientifica sul piano classico ed utopico insieme della 
finzione estetica, che immortala il costante antagonismo filosofico con il suo 
inadeguato ambiente culturale e |’odissea patita a causa di una forza arcana e 
imperscrutabile che detta i ritmi del pellegrinaggio itinerante in terra straniera e 
lo incatena in una schiaviti prostrante, impedendogli la via dell’agognato 
nostos. 

I] poemetto si qualifica nella sua funzione celebrativa come monumentum 
letterario di modesto spessore qualitativo, ma sufficientemente ben confezionato 
retoricamente e scaltrito formalmente grazie allo studio diligente e scrupoloso 
del genere classico da potersi inserire senza traumi nel repertorio ufficiale della 
letteratura d’occasione, per figurare come testimonianza culturale, pit’ che 
poetica, indelebile della statura morale e giuridica del suo artefice. Le allusive 
confidenze destinate agli amici nella dedica preliminare confermano questa 
ipotesi interpretativa che coinvolge non solo gli aspetti stilistici, ma la genesi 
ideale dell’opera, antidoto consolatorio all’otium forzato ma anche eredita 
culturale e soprattutto civile tangibile per la posterita elargita da uno scrittore 
ancora vivente, sovrastato tuttavia da un fato catastrofico che gli detta le volonta 
testamentarie morali attraverso un semplice ma emblematico componimento in 
versi. Questo scritto afferisce alla duplice dimensione pubblica e privata, 
personale ed universale, e viene eletto da Giannone a pretesto per ritagliarsi uno 
spazio riservato all’epigrafe commemorativa, che concerne non la sua infelice e 
marginale biografia esteriore e aleatoria, bensi |’interiore e quintessenziale 
paradigma etico della sua parabola umana e professionale, irrealizzabile in un 
determinato contesto storico-culturale, e quindi proiettata in un orizzonte 
utopico ed acronico: 


Quando vi ho detto altre volte che nel comporre questo lavoro la mia mente volgevasi a 
voi quasi ogni momento, e godeva immaginare quello nel quale avrei potuto leggervelo, 
ed ottener, se non laude, almeno, un gradimento amichevole, v’é mai caduto in pensiero 
che volessi dedicarvelo un giorno? Che non oso mettere il vostro nome, scorgetene 
manifesto il perché e vogliate sapermene grado. Voi rivedrete la nostra bellissima patria, 
dove certo |’amicizia di un esule non sarebbe corteggio troppo sicuro per chi abbia fama 
ed elevatezza di sensi.[...] La mia gratitudine vorra ben darvi piu gran prova che questa 
non é; ma sebbene io duri ancora imperterrito contro i crudeli spasimi dell’animo e i non 


200 Nicola Bietolini 


minori della persona; sebbene |’amarezza dell’esilio non sia ancor giunta a tormi ogni 
dolce affezione dal cuore ed a renderlo inerte, e la sventura né abbattesse fin qui, ne sia 
per abbattere mai il mio ardire; tutte queste cose affievoliscono ad ogni modo 
quell’ingegno qualsiasi ch’ebbi in dono nascendo, e non posso percid offrirvi maggior 
cosa di questa.[...] Che se mai questi versi avessero in parte l’altezza del sentimento che 
gli ha dettati, e fama quindi e diuturnita, e la fortuna mi precludesse pur sempre il mio 
paese natale, mi resterebbe almeno un conforto; quello che i nostri nomi vivrebbero 
entrambi nella voce de’ posteri a provare ognor pit, che gli animi in cui arde veracemente 
l’amore del Bello, sono tratti a cercarsi per tutto, e si trovano spesso, e s’apprezzano 
anche nella perversita de’ costumi e del secolo e in disparatissimo stato. Conforto che 
nessuno puo rapirmi sin d’ora, perché..... Nella tomba, ove tacciono e le ire degli altri e 
le nostre paure, non riderete voi d’ogni persecuzione come io ne rido vivendo? 
(“L’esule” v-viii) 


Giannone effettua, in definitiva, una commemorazione ideale e letteraria 
della patria negata, ricorrendo a scopo celebrativo ed a carattere solennizzante 
alla commistione tra scrittura pubblica documentaria e scrittura privata creativa, 
come risulta dalla esplicita inserzione della lettera di un patriota nel tessuto 
epico-lirico del componimento." 

Roma 


Opere citate 


Bertelli Saverio, “Introduzione a Giannone Pietro”, Vita, Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 
Giannone Pietro, “L’esule: poema”, Parigi, Delaforest, 1829. 

Giannone Pietro, Vita, a cura di S. Bertelli, Torino, Einaudi, 1977. 

Spallicci Anna, Pietro Giannone e il suo poema “L’esule” , Torino, A.M.I., 1958. 


'' <7 *esule”, V, vv.36-58, p.73; pp.297-298. 


Robert A. Rushing 
Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s “A Zacinto”! 


Introduction 

In his 1992 critical study entitled Travel As Metaphor: From Montaigne to 
Rousseau, Georges Van Den Abbeele understands travel as an economy: it 
promises the possibility of gain (monetary, experiential or epistemic) as well as 
loss (death, exile or disorientation). In order to make that loss or gain 
comprehensible, however, one must have some fixed point of reference by which 
the excess or penury produced by travel can be gauged, and Van Den Abbeele 
calls that point the oikos, the Greek word for home and, not coincidentally, the 
root of the word economy. He writes: 


The positing of an oikos, or domus (the Latin translation of oikos), is what domesticates 
the voyage by ascribing certain limits to it. The oikos defines or delimits the movement of 
travel [...]. Indeed travel can only be conceptualized in terms of the points of departure 
and destination and of the (spatial and temporal) distance between them [...]. While the 
oikos is most easily understood as that point from which the voyage begins and to which 
it circles back at the end, its function could theoretically be served by any particular point 
in the itinerary. That point then acts as a transcendental point of reference that organizes 
and domesticates a given area by defining all other points in relation to itself 

(Van Den Abbeele xviii). 


Thus, travel is understood as travel insofar as it is a departure from the 
home, and is generally understood by its distance and direction from home. 
“Home” and “voyage” reciprocally support and define each other, although it is 
clear which of the two occupies a privileged position. But Van Den Abbeele’s 
analysis reveals that this mutually supportive relationship is fraught with 
difficulties. He writes that “the concept of a home is needed (and in fact it can 
only be thought) only after the home has already been left behind. In a strict 
sense, then, one has always already left home, since home can only exist as such 
at the price of its being lost” (xix). This suggestion should seem familiar as the 
Derridean logic of the supplement: although we thought the home organized and 
made sensible the act of travel, we might just as easily turn the relationship on its 
head and say the reverse, that travel is a post facto attempt to establish and 
stabilize the home. Furthermore, the more the idea of the home orients and 
domesticates travel, the less it might “count” as travel. One thinks of the entire 
apparatus of guide books, tour guides, and interpreters, or hotel chains that bill 
themselves as a “home away from home,” but, in a more grotesquely 


' A number of readers — Timothy Bahti, Margaret Brose, Antonino Musumeci, and 
Barbara Spackman — have read and helped improve this article, and I would like to 
thank them here. 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


202 Robert A. Rushing 


exaggerated example, I have also seen American tourists waiting in line to get 
into a Taco Bell on the Avenida de la Revolucién in Tijuana, Mexico. As Van 
Den Abbeele dryly observes, “a voyage that stays in the same place is not a 
voyage” (xiv). 

Worse still, the temporal dimension of travel leaves open the possibility 
that, by the time you return home, it may no longer be at all recognizable as the 
home that you left (for that matter, you may no longer be recognizable as the 
traveler who left). “The very condition of orientation, the oikos,” comments Van 
Den Abbeele, “is paradoxically able to provoke the greatest disorientation” 
(xix). In short, travel offers, on the one hand, the possibility of an appropriation, 
domestication, and control of the space(s) of the other by binding and limiting 
the traveler’s freedom of physical and cognitive movement (not to mention the 
binding and limiting of the places and people the traveler travels to). On the 
other hand, travel and exploration are key metaphors for a destabilization and 
contestation of those same limitations (going off the beaten path, the road less 
traveled, exploring new frontiers, and so on). Indeed, it is important to 
understand that travel probably always works simultaneously in both directions; 
even the much-despised tourist acquires at least some knowledge of another 
culture, landscape or language, a knowledge that (albeit perhaps minimally) 
enlarges his or her epistemic horizons. At the same time, one should not ignore 
the ways in which that same knowledge is limited and bound in order to 
reinforce stereotypes and ideas of national and/or racial superiority.” 

The question of Italian travel merits particular attention for a number of 
historical reasons. For much of its modern history, Italy was not a unified 
country at all, but a conglomeration of small states, more or less controlled by 
the great European powers. “Italy” was a metaphoric substitution, giving a 
geographic coherence to a territory that was politically fragmented. Thinking of 
Italy as the oikos posed problems that, say, France or England did not; a return to 
Venice for an early nineteenth-century Venetian, for example, meant an 
inevitable intellectual detour (and here we see that “Italy” may have had a 
metonymic value, as well as a metaphorical one) through Austria. Theodore 
Cachey (56) comments that “for most of its history Italy has existed as ‘no place’ 
to leave from or return to” — a rather ironic utopia.’ (I don’t mean to suggest 
that Italians did not have a sense of home, but rather that any identification of 
that home at the national level was problematic at best.) The situation was no 
less problematic for travel within Italy, since one needed a passport to go from 
Venice to Milan, or from Florence to Rome. As far as travel to Italy was 


* The literature on this subject is certainly vast, but see, for example, Pratt and Greenblatt 
who treat the question of travel as both fostering and challenging pre-existing taxonomies 
and cognitive schemes. 

> Cachey is also attempting to explain why “travel literature” has been marginalized or 
resisted by Italian literary criticism. 


Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s “A Zacinto” 203 


concerned, Van Den Abbeele points out that “[...] the voyage to Italy was a 
cultural institution that accredited transalpine travelers [...] with a knowledge 
both exotic and familiar. No longer the religious, economic, or artistic center of 
Europe, post-Renaissance Italy became the continent’s ‘internal other,’ a place 
where Northerners could come to gawk at the evidences of Roman decline, and 
thus feel smug in the superiority of their nationalities [...]” (xxix-xxx). Italy 
became, in a certain sense, the European country traveled to, rather than from. 
Van Den Abbeele, relying on the story of the Odyssey as a foundation of much 
Western thinking about travel, also notes that the discourse of travel encodes a 
set of gender assumptions: the orienting space of the oikos/domus is a female, 
domestic one (Penelope), while the male subject (Odysseus) is freed up for 
exploration. But while early nineteenth-century Italian writers do repeatedly 
make use of a female iconography for the motherland, it is a particular one 
engendered by a history of foreign domination: “Italia, terra prostituta” (‘Italy, 
prostituted land’), writes Ugo Foscolo. Giacomo Leopardi chastises: “nuda la 
fronte e nudo il petto mostri [...] formossisima donna” (‘a naked brow and a bare 
chest you show, most shapely lady’), what Margaret Brose calls a fall from “an 
original state of male Romanitas into that of an /talianicita essentially feminine 
in nature” (“The Politics of Mourning” 1).* This female iconography is certainly 
not the stabilizing and orienting figure of Penelope. 

Finally, Van Den Abbeele’s analysis of travel resonates with more general 
problems encountered in critical thinking, epistemology and textual analysis. 
That is, travel is a key figure for thinking about thought itself (“exploring new 
territories,” “covering old ground,” plus vast number of metaphors that make use 
of basic elements such as space, boundaries and movement).° So, when travel in 
its capacity as a metaphor for thinking, for mental exploration, is domesticated 
(by an insistence, say, on the safe, round trip, where one “always arrives at one’s 
destination”), then signification itself “is reduced to a minimum in the 
conveyance without residue of ‘full meaning” (xx). On the other hand, less 


4 For Foscolo, see Ultime lettere di Jacopo Ortis 6. For Leopardi, “All’Italia.” This figure 
of the prostituted motherland should not be taken purely figuratively in the 19"" century, 
since the Grand Tour in Italy was often used (at least by the English) for a kind of sexual 
education. This was evidently especially true in Venice, Foscolo’s (putative) native city, 
which Kirby calls the “Mecca of men of pleasure” at the time (61). Brose, in her article 
on Dei seoplcri, makes a detailed and persuasive case that, at least in that poem, 
Foscolo’s gendering of the Italian body politic is considerably more nuanced: mourning 
and memory (and to some degree, poetry) are gendered female. It is also worth noting 
that this figure — the motherland as prostitute, possessed by foreign powers — goes back 
considerably farther than the 19" century in Italian letters. 

> See, for instance, Lakoff and Johnson for some discussion of the importance of 
spatial/orientational metaphors. 


204 Robert A. Rushing 


domesticated journeys of the mind (Van Den Abbeele has particularly in mind a 
destabilization of the primacy of the oikos) might ideally permit “an infinite or 
unbounded travel” (xx) where it is also always possible not to arrive, to be lost, 
to take a one-way trip.° Although such journeys are marked by a significant 
amount of risk, their potential cognitive rewards are similarly greater. So, there 
is much at stake in understanding (as well as practicing) travel in different ways, 
including a careful evaluation of travel literature. One immediately thinks, of 
course, of travel narratives (essays, diaries, and so forth, that describe actual 
journeys undertaken); but the same play between oikos and travel, solace and 
risk, domestication and possibility, can be seen in imaginary journeys as well, 
perhaps even more clearly: journeys which have often been no less influential in 
determining a given culture’s understanding of travel. In the Italian context, 
where the real oikos is historically so problematic, it might not surprise us to find 
that the fictional voyage (or the imagined voyage, the voyage as fantasy) has a 
particular resonance, both historical and cognitive. One might think of texts as 
diverse as the Divine Comedy, stories from the Decameron (such as X, 9), 
Orlando Furioso, Gerusalemme liberata, I promessi sposi, up to Calvino’s Le 
citta invisibili or Alessandro Baricco’s Seta. Cachey goes so far as to say that 
“the entire [Italian] tradition comprises a literature of travel,” a “series of 
idealized territories” which — as a consequence of “an original lack of 
geographical center” — are “uncannily disembodied and deterritorialized” (56).’ 
It is in this context that I would like to examine the figure of Ugo Foscolo, and in 
particular, the sonnet describing an imagined return to his motherland, “A 
Zacinto.” 


The oikos: A Greek Mother(land) 

Ugo Foscolo is the earliest of the trio of writers who are generally considered 
best to represent Italian Romanticism: Foscolo, Leopardi, and Manzoni. He was 
born in 1778 on the island Zante, the Homeric Zacynthos, to a Greek mother, 
Diamantina Spathis, and an Italian father. Foscolo was a zealous opponent of 
foreign domination of Italy (for a time he nourished hopes that Napoleon would 
conquer, unify, and then somehow “liberate” the Italian peninsula), and was, 
throughout his life, an Italian patriot. At the same time, in a letter to Jakob 
Bartholdy from 1808, Foscolo expressed wrote that 


Quantunque italiano d’educazione e d’origine [...], io, finché sarO memore di me stesso, 


° As to the possibility of arriving or not arriving at one’s destination, see the essays by 
Lacan, Derrida, and Johnson in Muller and Richardson. Zizek has a “New Lacanian” take 
on the subject (1-28). 

Cachey also writes that “Italian literature has from its founding ‘exiles,’ Dante and 
Petrarch, established itself as a tradition seeking to overcome its lack of original place, 
either to depart from, or to which return” (56). 





Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s ‘A Zacinto” 205 


non oblierd mai che nacqui da madre greca, che fui allevato da greca nutrice, e che vidi il 
primo raggio di sole nella chiara e selvosa Zacinto, risonante ancora de’ versi con che 
Omero e Teocrito la celebravano.® 

(However Italian in upbringing and in origin [...], I, as long as I shall be mindful of 
myself, will never forget that I was born of a Greek mother, that I was raised by a Greek 
nurse, and that I saw the first ray of sun on the bright and forested Zacinto, resonant still 
of the verses with which Homer and Theocritus celebrated her.) 


Foscolo refrains from precisely saying that his identity is Greek, but makes it 
clear that his italianita must always be arrived at through Greece:’ not Greece 
understood so much geographically or politically, but rather “Greece” as a kind 
of shorthand for the mother’s body (born of a Greek mother, raised by a Greek 
nurse) and the origins of Western literature, specifically poetry. Greece was, 
appropriately enough, in some sense Foscolo’s oikos. Or perhaps we might better 
say that the route to the oikos must always detour through Greece, or perhaps 
that it splits to follow two itineraries, one Italian, one Greek. Not surprisingly, 
the structure of Foscolo’s claim is fetishistic, based on knowledge and its 
disavowal — “I know very well that I am Italian, but all the same the space of 
home is Greece” (“quantunque [io sia] d’educazione e d’origine [...] io [...] non 
oblierd”).'° Obviously, this is not the straightforward oikos that could 
“unproblematically” ground national identity and orient travel. Zante may have 
been historically Greek, but in a doubling of Van Den Abbeele’s “internal 
other,” it was under the control of the Republic of Venice at the time of 
Foscolo’s birth. The mother’s land was dominated by the father’s land, so to 
speak. By the time Foscolo begins work on his sonnets, however, Venice will 
have been conquered by Napoleon and then handed over to Austria as part of the 
1797 Treaty of Campoformio. Every recourse to the oikos, then, will have to 
make a series of destabilizing detours, following questions of historical 
circumstance. In fact, Foscolo’s description of his national identity above 
demonstrates a pattern that, as we shall see, typifies his attempts to think the 


® Foscolo’s letter to J. Bartholdy (Sept. 29, 1808), Opere 1:2010 (emph. in the original). 

° Foscolo thinks even the name of the father through Greek, offering the specious 
etymology of fos (light) + kolos (bile) (dell’ Aquila 145). 

'° In fact, Foscolo’s comments are a virtual mise-en-scéne of the Freudian fetish. The boy 
glances at his castrated mother, fears for his own identity and integrity, and his gaze and 
attachment drift instead to what is nearby: shoes, feet, undergarments. In others words, 
recognizing the historically troubled, mediated relationship to the oikos is yet another 
form of recognizing one's troubled, mediated relationship to the phallus, and Foscolo, 
given his particular historical circumstance, is avoiding not only the mother’s castration, 
but the father’s symbolic castration as well. And intriguingly, Foscolo’s fetish 
compensating for the lack of a clear oikos seems to be literature itself, since poetry is 
persistently where his gaze comes to rest (Freud 217). 


206 Robert A. Rushing 


oikos. Although it initially seems to be a recollection of the mother, it moves 
away from the mother(land), passing from the mother to the nurse, and then from 
those highly rooted, bodily relations to the first ray of sun, and finally to the 
verses of Homer and Theocritus. That is, it moves metonymically, not 
metaphorically. 

After Venice passed into Austrian hands, Foscolo was no longer a welcome 
figure there, and he essentially spent the rest of his life, from 1798 on, in exile. 
He moved between Milan, Bologna, Pavia, and Florence before leaving first for 
Switzerland and then England, where he spent the last eleven years of his life — 
ironically, the longest sojourn of his wandering biography.'’ Aside from a brief 
period in 1814 when he toyed with the idea of collaborating with the Austrians 
— the government offered him the direction of a literary journal — Foscolo was 
not able to return to his “native” city of Venice. Not surprisingly, much of his 
work reflects this permanent exile, in particular his epistolary novel, Ultime 
lettere di Jacopo Ortis.'” His body was buried in the Chiswick village cemetery, 
but was disinterred and re-buried in Santa Croce in Florence in 1871.'° 


Traveling by Metonymy 

In several of the sonnets, Foscolo calls attention to his long exile, notably in 
‘“All’amata,” “In morte del fratello Giovanni,” and especially the 1803 “A 
Zacinto.”'* This last is generally considered, along with “Alla sera” and “In 
morte del fratello Giovanni,” among Foscolo’s best work, and it remains in a 
highly canonical position today. 


A Zacinto 


Né pil mai toccherd le sacre sponde 
ove il mio corpo fanciulletto giacque, 
Zacinto mia, che te specchi nell’onde 
del greco mar da cui vergine nacque 

Venere, e fea quelle isole feconde 
col suo primo sorriso, onde non tacque 
le tue limpide nubi e le tue fronde 
l’inclito verso di colui che l’acque 

canto fatali, ed il diverso esiglio 
per cui bello di fama e di sventura 


'! Foscolo also spent several years (1784-1787) in Spalato, a city of what was at the time 
Dalmatia (now Croatia). 

'2 See Costa’s significant essay on the trope of the journey in Foscolo. 

'? For a more complete overview of Foscolo’s works, see Cambon, or (in briefer form) 
Brose, “Back to the Body of the Mother: Foscolo’s ‘A Zacinto.’” Flamigni and 
Mangaroni’s volume is a complete biography. 

'4 Most of the sonnets were written in 1800-1803, during Foscolo’s first stay in Milan. 


Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s ‘‘A Zacinto” 207 


bacid la sua petrosa Itaca Ulisse. 

Tu non altro che il canto avrai del figlio, 
o materna mia terra; a noi prescrisse 
il fato illacrimata sepoltura. 


To Zacinto: 
Nor ever more shall I touch the sacred shores 
where my newborn body lay, 
my Zacinto, who are reflected in the waves 
of the Grecian sea from which, virgin, was born 
Venus, and she made those isles fertile 
with her first smile, whence spoke 
of your limpid clouds and your fronds 
the lofty verse of the one who sang 
the fatal waters and the diverse exile 
for which, rich in fame and misfortune, 
Ulysses kissed his rocky Ithaca. 
You will have nothing of your son but his song, 
o my mother earth; for us fate 
prescribed an unmourned burial. (my translation) 


Bearing in mind Georges Van Den Abbeele’s analysis of travel as a kind of 
supplement to the home, and in particular the question of orientation and 
destabilization, I would like to look at “A Zacinto” as a travel poem. To begin 
with, the poem is predicated on absence and distance, on a voyage that has 
already taken place prior to its composition: Foscolo writes from exile to the 
island where he was born — the Homeric Zacynthos mentioned in the Odyssey 
(1: 291; 9: 27; 16: 144, 297; 19: 155) — lamenting the impossibility of ever 
returning there. However, it would be a mistake to assert that the poem is 
exclusively about travel in the sense of exile. The poem depicts (at least) two 
imaginary journeys, not the unstructured wanderings of the exile, but clear 
itineraries. The first section (lines 1-11) maps out a chain of associations, a 
metonymic itinerary, leading from the figure of the poet to his presumed alter 
ego (Ulysses). The second section of the sonnet (lines 12-14) anticipates a 
different voyage: the poem itself will return to Foscolo’s “materna mia terra,” 
since the poet cannot. Although “A Zacinto” initially presents a high degree of 
stylistic and thematic coherence, seemingly progressing smoothly from origin to 
destination, it becomes clear that, with the orienting home lost or unreachable, 
these voyages are profoundly disoriented, their origins mis- or dis-placed and 
their destinations doubled. 

As I said, the poem initially presents a high degree of stylistic and thematic 
coherence. It is structured by the distinction between grammatical subordination 
(in the first section) and grammatical coordination (the second section, the final 


208 Robert A. Rushing 


tercet). The first section is remarkably hypotactic, where almost every 
conjunction is subordinating (ove — where; che — who; da cui — from which; 
onde — whence; colui che — he who; per cui — for which), so that it 
progressively moves to deeper and deeper levels of subordination. The 
awkwardness of the translation is (I hope) a by-product of my attempt to retain 
this technique in English. The second section has no conjunctions at all. This 
distinction in grammatical subordination matches exactly the two sentences, as 
well as a division in content: the first sentence, so hypotactic in form, also forms 
a metonymic chain of associations, beginning with the implied io of the poet in 
line | (“[io] toccherd”), and leading to his birthplace (Zacinto), which is situated 
in the Grecian sea, and which recalls the birth of Venus, who made the islands so 
fertile and lush that even the great poet Homer (the one who sang / the fatal 
waters) sang of them, and also of Ulysses, “rich in fame and misfortune.” The 
obvious function of this metonymic chain is to connect the first term and the last, 
Foscolo and Ulysses, two great figures of exile and wandering, in a poem that 
deliberately plays up Foscolo’s Greek credentials. It also indubitably forms a 
voyage, both temporal and spatial, from the poet’s “here and now” to Greek 
mythical and literary precursors. Indeed, it is hard to imagine a figure of speech 
better suited to travel than metonymy, which is after all slippage along 
contiguous physical and/or cognitive spaces. 

The second, and much briefer, portion of the poem is devoid of metonymy, 
and its point seems to be to underscore that, no matter how much metonymic 
traveling the poet may do in the first part, “tu non altro che il canto avrai”: he 
will never reach Zacinto. At best, it will be the poem itself that makes the 
journey to the motherland. Although Foscolo cannot reach the motherland, 
Zacinto, the oikos, still seems capable of orienting and directing a journey. This 
is pretty smooth sailing on the structural level as well, for the poem presents very 
neat divisions: hypotaxis, metonymy and the poet’s journey in the first section; 
parataxis, relatively less tropological language, and poem’s journey in the 
second. 


A Rough Voyage Toward Origins 

Neither trip is as smooth as it sounds, however. A careful diagramming of 
subordination and coordination in the first section indicates a voyage that 
mimetically resembles Ulysses’s travels in the Odyssey. That is, it proceeds by 
fits and starts, moving to less subordinated levels (as in line 3, where “my 
Zacinto” re-surfaces from the previously subordinated “where my newborn body 
[...]” clause) or making more or less brief stops where it stays at the same level 
(as in lines 5 and 9, where the conjunctions are coordinating).'° More crucially, 
both the first and second sections are marked by enjambment, particularly 


'S Brose, following Cambon, notes that “the eleven verses actually perform the arduous 
journey of the wanderer-exile, Foscolo-Ulysses” (“Back to the Body of the Mother” 179). 





Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s “A Zacinto” 209 


extensive in the first (across lines 3-4, 4-5, 6-7, 7-8, and 8-9). Enjambment is a 
curious technique: on the one hand, it facilitates the smooth flow of reading, 
because it demands that the reader not pause at the end of a verse.'® On the other 
hand, it disrupts the smooth flow of reading because it frustrates the reader’s 
expectations, and spatially and temporally separates key grammatical and 
syntactical elements. The disruptive side is especially notable when the 
enjambment occurs across the boundary separating quatrain from quatrain, or 
quatrain from tercet (lines 4-5, and again in 8-9). A construction like “[...] da cui 
vergine nacque / Venere” (4-5), leaves the reader momentarily groping after the 
“vergine nacque,” and tends to break up the metonymic chain being forged. 

Another issue that troubles the poem is the question of temporality. At first 
glance one is apt to say that the poem moves from the present (the poet’s here 
and now) into the past, but consider the first two lines: “Né pit mai tocchero le 
sacre sponde / ove il mio corpo fanciulletto giacque.” In fact, the poem follows a 
trajectory from the poet’s future in some other, unknown space (the “illacrimata 
sepoltura’”) to a past that is also remote. It repeats this structure twice, once at the 
beginning, and again at the end: “tu non altro che il canto avrai [...] a noi 
prescrisse [...]” (12-13). The poet’s temporal and spatial disorientation is 
remarkable precisely for its utopian (in the etymological sense) nature: only 
Zacinto is privileged with the present tense. This last point should not surprise 
us, since Zacinto is obviously intended as the stable origin that should ground 
and orient the poet’s travel. What is perhaps surprising (or would be, outside of 
an Italian context) is that, with the oikos seemingly so clearly placed and 
recognized, the poet-traveler is still not localizable within a coherent temporal or 
spatial matrix. 

Most obviously disruptive, however, is the poem’s extraordinary first 
word: Né. Like the English pair of neither/nor, in Italian the negative conjunction 
né comes in pairs.'’ This partner-less né of the poem’s first line leaves the reader 
either anticipating some future matching mé or imagining an earlier negative 
clause that would precede the poem’s opening.'® Since there is clearly no later 


'© Numerous readers (Valentini, Brose, Cambon) have isolated “liquid” as a dominant or 
the dominant register of the poem, and there is a general recognition that Foscolo uses 
the long, flowing clause of the first section to mime important lexical elements (such as 
onde, greco mar, l’acque). Cambon, for example, describes the “one breathless sentence, 
in wave after wave of subordinate clauses,” puns on the “Foscolian wave-length,” and 
describes the cascade of subordinating clauses as water flowing downward across 
successive rock ledges (143-44). 

'7 As in English, one will also see single né after a preceding negative clause, as in: non 
so se lei é partita, né se partira (I don’t know if she has left, nor if she will leave). 

'8 Foscolo may also have been imitating the Latin ne /...] umquam construction here (né 
pi mai): Italian Romanticism was, generally speaking, a pretty neo-classicist 


210 Robert A. Rushing 


né, many readers prefer the former possibility, describing the poem as the written 
continuation of an internal monologue. In other words, the poem inscribes a 
terminal lack within its own structure, for it is missing either a beginning or an 
ending. 

The poem is clearly an expression of loss and yearning, the poet’s desire to 
return to the land of his birth, a return that would bring with it some kind of 
solace. Brose has thoroughly analyzed this aspect of the poem in the context of a 
return to the maternal body. Indeed, the multiple births in the poem — Foscolo, 
Venus, the lush flora of the Grecian islands made “‘feconde” by Venus’s smile — 
are quite striking, and the separation from the maternal figure is clearly one of 
the sources of the poet’s sense of loss (Brose, “Back to the Body of the 
Mother”). The title of the poem, “A Zacinto,” is naturally read as a dedication 
to this unfulfilled and unfulfillable desire, but it just as easily could indicate 
direction, in this case, the direction of the poet’s desire, the direction of his 
imaginary travel.”” The poem expresses the desire to return “a Zacinto.” And yet, 
if this is the case, what becomes striking about the poem is that Foscolo moves 
away from the home: he undertakes an imaginary voyage to his homeland, and 
arrives there only to begin moving metonymically away by the first quatrain. In 


Romanticism, as was especially true in Foscolo’s case. In Italian, however, the 
construction is a novelty, and sounds odd and incomplete even to the classically educated 
reader. For example, the Ricciardi edition of Foscolo’s works cites De Robertis: “Pare 
che il poeta, cominciando, continui un discorso fatto tra sé e sé, e dia sfogo a una 
commozione gia piena” (‘It seems that the poet, in beginning, continues a conversation 
within himself, and releases an already full agitation’). Franco Gavazzeni, the editor of 
the Ricciardi edition of Foscolo’s Opere, cites a half-dozen “precedenti” for the initial né 
in Petrarch, Bembo and Costanzo, all of which are followed by a subsequent né (235n1). 
The Zanichelli Vocabolario della lingua italiana allows that the conjunction may be used 
alone with a “funzione negativa,” but cites only one example: “Né pili mai toccherd le 
sacre sponde [...].” I believe the construction may be unique, at least up until 1803. Brose 
reads the né as a pointer to the subliminal or unconscious (the “already full agitation”), 
and notes Foscolo’s “uncanny ability to project his voice from uncanny places: from the 
tomb [...] and from the womb” (“Back to the Body of the Mother” 180). 

'? The poem, Brose writes, “provides an especially eloquent example of how the poet 
writes his way back to the womb” (175) via, of course, the minor detour of his own 
grave. Cambon nicely points out a re-duplication of the multiple births at the phonetic 
level, “whereby ‘Vénere’ projects ‘fea’ and ‘fea’ generates ‘feconde’” (147). Insofar as 
the oikos represents the feminine and the domestic, the origin that can only be recognized 
after separation, it may be that every return is on some level a return to the mother’s 
body, and every voyage a separation from it. 

© The titles of the sonnets are not Foscolo’s (with the exception of “Per la sentenza 
capitale”), but originated with Orlandini. For purposes of biography or psychobiography, 
interpreting a title that was not originally Foscolo’s might be a problem for establishing 
his intention to write a travel poem (or at least his intention to have the title reflect such 
an intention). I am not, however, interested in establishing intent. 





f 


| 








Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s ‘A Zacinto” 211 


fact, keeping in mind the partnerless initial né, it might be better to say that 
Foscolo has already arrived by the first line, which is also already a declaration 
of separation. The movement proceeds by continguity: we begin on the shores 
(sponde) of Zacinto, move to its reflection in the water (che te specchi), to the 
waves (onde) and out into the general Grecian sea (Greco mar) before following 
the entire metonymic chain into an ever more remote mythic and literary past. In 
fact, we end up on an entirely different island, Ithaca, localized within a purely 
imaginary matrix. This movement is repeated in the second section, passing from 
materna mia terra to illacrimata sepoltura, an unmourned burial that will be 
anywhere but the homeland. The poem’s content suggests the yearning to return 
to the solace of home, while its form suggests that the poet is trying to move 
away from home as rapidly as possible. This confusion over direction marks the 
first of several multiple destinations or split itineraries that the poem contains. 
Let us examine the others. 


A Double Voyage And Its Destinations 
I noted earlier that the poem establishes a “metonymic itinerary” in the first 
section, moving from the poet’s personal past (ove il mio corpo fanciulletto 
giacque) to a mythical one (da cui vergine nacque / Venere), and then on to a 
literary one (colui che l’acque / canto fatali and Ulisse). This metonymic 
itinerary seems to satisfactorily answer the question of the first voyage’s 
destination: from the poet to Ulysses. Such an identification through metonymy 
is not terribly surprising for a Romantic poet, since the figure of Ulysses nicely 
combines victimism and Titanism, two of the poles between which Romanticism 
constantly vacillates. Foscolo can thus move from a pathetic masochism in the 
section’s first lines to an identification with one of the greatest heroes of Western 
literature in its last. 

As several readers have already noted, there are convincing reasons to 
believe that Ulysses is not the section’s only destination, despite his structural 
position at the end of the metonymic voyage; this is another way in which this 


_ highly structured poem contests and ruptures its own structure. This first 


itinerary has multiple destinations, or perhaps simply an end that comes before 
the end. (Travel, as Van Den Abbeele has noted, is a risky proposition: one of its 
risks may be a méconnaissance with regard to the journey’s proper ending: how 
many of us might not recognize the real end of our travel?) That destination is, 
of course, Homer (what Valentini terms the “latent” content of the poem (19)) 
and not Ulysses, and it is Homer who is the real model for the poetic self being 
constructed here. 

There are a number of reasons to make this identification between the poet 
and Homer. To begin with, they are linked through their common vocation of 
poetry, or song: Homer is “he who sang” while the poet reduces himself to pure 


| song in the final tercet: “tu non altro che il canto avrai del figlio” (‘you will have 


212 Robert A. Rushing 


nothing of your son but his song’). Homer and Foscolo are also the only two 
subjects not properly named in the poem: Homer is only named through the 
figure of antonomasia (colui che l’acque / canto fatali) while Foscolo is never 
named at all. The poet proclaims in the sonnet’s final lines that “fate prescribed 
an unmourned burial for us.” If Foscolo is not using the noi to refer just to 
himself (which is certainly possible), then for whom? Besides the poet, who else 
is included in this noi? It is surely not the island, nor can it be the poem. 
Foscolo’s whole point is that the poem will manage to return home, since he is 
certainly not condemning his own poem to oblivion. Does the noi include 
Ulysses? Well, here is the real reason that poem cannot be (exclusively) linking 
Foscolo and Ulysses: Ulysses makes it back home.”! 

So the itinerary that the poem traces back into a mythical and literary past 
leads to Ulysses on the one hand and Homer on the other. Brose (among others) 
has noted this associative doubling, writing: “Foscolo doubles himself here, 
becoming both his own protagonist, Ulysses, and his alter-ego’s immortalizer, 
Homer” (“Back to the Body” 177). The uncertainty or splitting of ends is even 
mimicked and reproduced in the trope that Foscolo uses to describe Ulysses. He 
is “bello di fama e sventura,” rich (literally, beautiful or handsome) in fame and 
misfortune. This is the figure of speech known as zeugma, in which one term 
(bello) is linked to two other terms (fama, sventura), but that linkage functions 
“properly” with only one of them. That is, you can be rich in fame (although this 
is already figurative language, of course) but you cannot be, properly speaking, 
rich in misfortune. One destination is proper (bello is linked to fama, Foscolo is 
linked to Ulysses), or arrived at directly; the other with difficulty (bello to 
sventura, Foscolo and Homer). This splitting of “proper” and “difficult” 
destinations is another manifestation of a sharp uncertainty in the poem: we are 
now faced with an originary lack (the initial né) and a doubled ending (Ulysses, 
Homer). 

This doubling of endings appears in the poem’s second, briefer section 
(lines 12-14) as well.” This section imagines two voyages, rather than a single 
one, and, as is typical of this much more laconic second section, the journeys are 
anticipated and not described in detail. On the one hand, this section imagines 
that the poem may one day arrive “A Zacinto,” and, on the other hand, it 
imagines the poet’s own final voyage, leading to the grave. Foscolo has 


| The Odyssey is explicit on this point: Tiresias prophesied that Ulysses would die 
“when you are wearied out with rich old age, / your country folk in blessed peace around 
you” (11: 150-151). Ulysses’s death will take place after Odysseus’s final journey, 
according to the seer. It seems unlikely that Foscolo, so proud of his Greek origins and 
translating (or mistranslating) the /liad, would take Dante’s addition to the story in 
Inferno 26 as gospel. 

2 For that matter, even the journey of Foscolo’s body after death repeats this doubling, 
with its double burial, first in England, then in Italy. 





Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s “A Zacinto” 213 


beautifully made use of the image of “touching ground” in this poem: it begins 
the poem as an impossibility (né pit mai tocchero le sacre sponde), appears 
again as a recollection (ove il mio corpo fanciulletto giacque), returns as the 
ultimate image of homecoming (bacio la sua petrosa Itaca Ulisse) and finally in 
the image of the poet’s burial (i/lacrimata sepoltura).”? No doubt, part of the 
function of this imagery is so that Foscolo could ironically contrast Ulysses’s 
homecoming, which takes the erotically charged form of a kiss, to the 
“illacrimata sepoltura” that awaits the poet.” 

We might, however, look at the image from the standpoint of travel, where 
touching ground is a consummate image of orientation: it brings movement and 
wandering (at least temporarily) to rest, establishes up and down (perhaps 
especially important in a poem that plays itself out so prominently along the 
vertical axis of subordination) and, in this poem, repeatedly signifies a return 
home, whether successful or not. In other words, it establishes an oikos. 
Foscolo’s burial is, on the one hand, an ironic homecoming, although also an 
opportunity to place himself in a common grave with Homer; and on the other, 
seen within the economy of travel, it is an exchange. I have suggested that the 
poem thematizes the mapping out of a route and the motif of the voyage, while at 
the same time thematizing disorientation: lost origins, multiple destinations, the 
figure of zeugma. What about this final image of grounding? 


Touching Ground 

Van Den Abbeele conceives of travel as an economy of loss and gain, structured 
by what is normally an unchallenged point of reference: the home. Within the 
economy of travel, every grounding, every orientation, is produced by a 
concomitant wandering. The home can only be constituted retroactively, in its 
own absence; it can only be conceived from the non-localizable space of travel. 


3 This is evidently a reference to an ancient Greek custom of laying a newborn on the 
ground to consecrate him or her to Mother Nature (either Opi or Venus) (Foscolo, Le 
poesie 35n2). This is an ironic inversion of Foscolo’s burial: the round trip journey that 
underlies our most common thinking about travel (and has a domesticating and limiting 
effect on the possibilities afforded by travel) will not be possible. As Valentini, among 
others, notes, the verb used, giacere (to lie), is typically used on tombstones, as in 
English: Qui giace... (here lies...). Foscolo further emphasizes this irony by rhyming 
giacque with nacque in verse 4. (Valentini 18; 31). 

4 This image seems to be part and parcel of what Brose has called Foscolo’s “thanato- 
eroticism”—“an attempt to return to a pre-oedipal fusion with the mother by means of 
self-annihilation’—which she sees as generally characterizing Foscolo’s sonnets. (“The 
Politics of Mourning” 2-3). The entanglement of eros and thanatos is characteristic of 
Romanticism, emerging most clearly in the late 19" century with scapigliatura in novels 
like Tarchetti’s Fosca or poets like Camerana. 


214 Robert A. Rushing 


Zacinto, as the poem’s point of reference, as home, is constituted precisely 
because Foscolo moves away from it, both biographically (his exile) and 
poetically (the itinerary that leads from Zacinto to Venus to Homer to Ulysses). 
This is the economy of the poem’s first section. Likewise, to establish a place as 
a home, as a point of reference, is to already imagine a possible voyage away 
from it. Foscolo’s burial at the poem’s end, then, represents a different exchange, 
a grounding that permits another voyage. What ventures forth at the end of the 
poem? The poem itself, as we are told in verse 12 (tu non altro che il canto 
avrai). Foscolo’s self-grounding through death (literally putting himself in the 
ground) allows the free travel of his poetry. And where does “A Zacinto” go? 
Naturally, it goes a Zacinto. The poem is understood to travel more or less 
literally to the island. 

But there is another way in which this poem might be said to return “a 
Zacinto”: perhaps the poem “A Zacinto” returns to the poem “A Zacinto.” I 
would like to suggest that, as in Timothy Bahti’s reading of Leopardi’s 
“L’infinto,” this poem’s beginning comes after its ending (a literally 
preposterous reading), forming a kind of loop of poetic language (42-56). The 
sonnet’s initial né demands either a preceding né, or a previous negative clause 
— and there is indeed a negative clause available, although it comes at the 
poem’s end. We might read the poem’s ending thusly: “Tu non altro che il canto 
avrai del figlio, / o materna mia terra [...] / né pili mai toccherd le sacre sponde 
[...].’ Under this reading, the poem (the real Ulysses in this scene of travel) is 
freed through the poet’s grounding (i/lacrimata sepoltura) to return to its proper 
home: poetic language itself. The poem goes back “A Zacinto.” As Antonino 
Musumeci has pointed out: “Foscolo, unlike Manzoni, does not possess the 
certainty of a gratuitous promise of happiness; but he does have the boundless 
Romantic faith in poetic discourse. And so he makes poetry his exile, and his 
muse of the resultant despair” (75).”° So again, in the poem’s final section, the 
destinations of travel are doubled: on the one hand, a return to the island, and, on 
the other, a return to poetic language. Looking back at Foscolo’s letter to 


5 Exile, as many critics have noted, forms an essential base for Foscolo’s writing. Exile 
appears as an essential predicate for the scene of writing in sonnets like “A Zacinto” or 
“In morte del fratello Giovanni,” and as an essential predicate for the protagonist in 
Ultime lettere di Jacopo Ortis. Foscolo’s exile informs (albeit more subtly) all of Dei 
sepolcri, both as a regret (he, too, will be one of those with an “illacrimata sepoltura”), 
and as a hope for fame that might transcend the grave. Cambon points out, a propos of 
Foscolo’s translation of Sterne’s Sentimental Journey, that Foscolo refers to Didimo 
Chierico (his alter ego and fictional translator) as “uomo senza patria” (14-15) and also 
marks exile as the precondition of Le Grazie (17). Exile even appears as an essential 
topos in some of Foscolo’s more obscure pieces such as “All’oceano” (which again 
begins in Greece and moves to a consideration of the grave), or in the English poem “To 
Callirhoe.” 





Traveling by Metonymy: Foscolo’s “A Zacinto” 215 


Bartholdy (“quantunque italiano d’educazione e d’origine [...]”), one can see 
that same doubled movement, a simultaneous recollection of the motherland that 
is also a digression that ends with Homer and Theocritus. 

Lastly, to turn to the question of points of origin, there is still something odd 
about the final grounding that mobilizes Foscolo’s poem: something odd, 
however, only if one fails to consider Italy’s unique situation or more precisely, 
lack of situation, at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Zacinto is a proper 
place, with a proper name — a space that could genuinely be used to orient one’s 
travels, despite the attendant difficulties of national identity and toponymy. The 
same could not be said for the non-place of Foscolo’s imagined burial. Within 
the standard economy of travel described by Van Den Abbeele, home and travel 
are terms that reciprocally constitute and sustain each other, albeit, as Van Den 
Abbeele shows, in the risky and unstable way that is typical of the Derridean 
supplement. The lack of “place” that grounds this poem’s ending/beginning, 
however, implies a more radical disorientation. Foscolo’s imagined illacrimata 
sepoltura is, unlike Zacinto, not anywhere. It is a grounding, a place of 
permanent rest, but one that cannot be properly used to orient any travel, 
including the voyage that the poem makes back to Zacinto. 

To address the question of national identity, what space does the Italian poet 
of Foscolo’s age write from, or, to phrase the question in terms of travel, where 
is he coming from? Italy — like Foscolo’s future imagined grave — as such was 
nowhere, and so Foscolo writes from a place that might best be described as 
“somewhere else,” at some indefinable time (the future tense — tu non altro che 
il canto avrai — is also used in Italian to express possibility). This unidentified 
space is the oikos of the poem, the utopian space that both grounds and un- 
grounds it, that orients its metonymic itinerary and disrupts and disorients our 
travel and our thinking about the places we travel to at the same time. Writing 
from the “somewhere else” of Italy, of an Italian identity always fraught with 
detours, provokes for Foscolo an imagined journey without a clear destination or 
point of departure, an endless slippage perhaps more akin to metonymy than to 
the simple substitution of metaphor. To return to Van Den Abbeele’s analysis of 
the economy of travel, Foscolo’s poetic journey in “A Zacinto” seems like an 
ideal example of “unbounded travel” and the destabilization of the primacy of 
the oikos, now a place that cannot be clearly located. In his discussion of lyrical 
endings, Timothy Bahti relates Duchamp’s “utopian endings” to lyric poetry 
thus: “[...] my understanding of the ends of the lyric in some of poetry’s most 
interesting and powerful instances is that they are utopian not in that they do not 
occur — for they do —but in that they direct us to a place of language and 
thought the promised consequences of which are still, and always, and rightly 
elsewhere” (15). 

The University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 


216 Robert A. Rushing 


Works Cited 
Bahti, Timothy. Ends of the Lyric: Direction and Consequence in Western Poetry. 
Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1996. 
Brose, Margaret. “Back to the Body of the Mother: Foscolo’s ‘A Zacinto.’” Jtalica 74:2 
(1997): 164-84. 
. “The Politics of Mourning in Foscolo’s Dei sepolcri.” European Romantic 
Review 9:1 (1998): 1-34. 
Cachey, Theodore J., Jr. “An Italian Literary History of Travel.” Annali d’Italianistica 15 
(1996): 55-64. 
Cambon, Glauco. Ugo Foscolo: Poet of Exile. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1980. 
Costa, Gustavo. “Ugo Foscolo’s Europe: A Journey from the Sublime to Romantic 
Humor.” Magliocchetti and Verna 21-40. 
dell’ Aquila, Michele. Foscolo e il romanticismo. Bari: Adriatic Editrice, 1992. 
Flamigni, Adriana, and Rosella Mangaroni. Ugo Foscolo: la passione dell’esilio. 
Milano: Camunia Editrice, 1987. 
Foscolo, Ugo. Le poesie. Ed. Marcello Turchi. Milano: Garzanti, 1974. 
. Opere. Ed. Franco Gavanezzi. Milano: Ricciardi, 1974. 
. Ultime lettere di Jacopo Ortis. Milano: Mondadori, 1986. 
Freud, Sigmund. “Fetishism.” Sexuality and the Psychology of Love. New York: Collier, 
1963. 
Greenblatt, Stephen. Marvelous Possessions: The Wonder of the New World. Chicago: U 
of Chicago P, 1992. 
Homer. The Odyssey. Trans. Robert Fitzgerald. New York: Doubleday, 1961. 
Kirby, Paul Franklin. The Grand Tour in Italy (1700-1800). New York: S. F. Vanni, 
1952. 
Lakoff, George, and Mark Johnson. Metaphors We Live By. Chicago: U of Chicago P, 
1983. 
Leopardi, Giacomo. Canti. Torino: Einaudi, 1962. 
Magliocchetti, Bruno, and Anthony Verna, eds. The Motif of the Journey in Nineteenth- 
Century Italian Literature. Gainesville: UP of Florida, 1994. 
Muller, John P., and William J. Richardson, eds. The Purloined Poe: Lacan, Derrida and 
Psychoanalytic Reading. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP, 1988. 
Musumeci, Antonio. “Of Swallows and Farewells: The Morality of Movement in Italian 
Literature of the Ottocento.” Magliocchetti and Verna 70-83. 
Pratt, Mary Louise. Imperial Eyes: Travel Writing and Transculturation. New York: 
Routledge, 1992. 
Valentini, Alvaro. Le ragioni espressive: schede e proposte su Foscolo, Manzoni, 
Pirandello, Montale. Roma: Bulzoni, 1972. 
Van Den Abbeele, Georges. Travel as Metaphor: From Montaigne to Rousseau. 
Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1992. 
Zizek, Slavoj. Enjoy your Symptom! Jacques Lacan in Hollywood and Out. New York: 
Routledge, 2001. 








Cosetta Gaudenzi 


Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 


Tu non altro che il canto avrai del figlio, 
o materna mia terra; a noi prescrisse 
il fato illacrimata sepoltura. 

(Foscolo, “A Zacinto’’) 


Ugo Foscolo, one of Italy’s most notable exiled literati, was born in 1778 on the 
Greek island of Zante, son of an Italian doctor, Andrea Foscolo, and a Greek 
woman, Diamantina Spathis. At the age of fourteen, after the death of his father, 
Foscolo moved to Venice where he began his literary studies and met 
intellectuals and revolutionaries of the time. Believing that Italy’s freedom and 
unity depended on the French revolution, Foscolo fought for Napoleon on 
several occasions and continued, though disappointed, even after the French 
general gave Venice to the Austrians in the treaty of Campoformio (1797). 
When Napoleon was defeated in 1814, the thirty-six-year-old writer, who by 
then had gained a considerable reputation, refused to submit to the Austrians and 
went voluntarily into exile, first to Switzerland and then, in September 1816, to 
England,! where he died in 1827, having never returned to Italy. 

The subject of Foscolo and exile has received the attention of various 
scholars. Some critics, like Glauco Cambon, have treated the general theme of 
exile in Foscolo’s life and works. Others, including Carlo Maria Franzero, Eric 
Vincent, and more recently John Lindon, have focused on Foscolo’s experience 
in England and his later critical production. Still others have taken a more 
comparative approach, studying Foscolo in relation to the British literary 
context. Thomas Cooksey, for example, has examined Foscolo’s role in the early 
nineteenth-century reception of Dante in England. My contribution consists in 
expanding Cooksey’s study and in investigating and explaining the relation 
between Foscolo and British culture through translation as a critical concept: 
namely, translation in the general sense of “space of hybridity” as employed by 
Homi Bhabha in his studies on nation and culture (e.g., The Location of 
Culture). 

The term “translation,” from the Latin transferre, literally means to transfer, 


1 Other notable Italian refugees that went to Great Britain at this time include Santorre 
Santa Rosa, an ex-war minister, the Generals Pepe and De Meester, and the 
mathematician Giuseppe Pecchio. 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


218 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


transport, remove from one person, place, time, or condition to another. It can 
imply transferal from the realm of ideas into the realm of words, and from one 
language or culture into another. Accordingly, translation occupies a liminal 
space that transgresses the synchronically and the diachronically limited. The 
hybrid nature of translation is analogous to that of exile, in which individuals 
reinvent themselves to fit a different spatial and temporal context. In fact, 
translation can become a valuable tool for exiles who use it to communicate the 
self in a new language, and at times to return to the sources of their cultural 
tradition, which they then aim to make visible in a new environment. In this 
article, I show how, in England, Foscolo engaged in the practice of cultural 
“translation” and transference by writing essays that suggested a reinterpretation 
of Italian literature, of Dante in particular. I shed light on Foscolo’s interest in 
Dante’s work, life, and historical context, and on Foscolo’s roles as “translator” 
of culture and “validator” of cultura! translation, most importantly in the process 
which made Henry Francis Cary’s Vision (1814) the first authoritative rendering 
of the Commedia into English. Finally, I suggest that Foscolo’s shift from 
writing literature to practicing cultural translation and transference represents a 
kind of literary return to his homeland at a time when the author had lost all 
hopes for a united Italy, and was therefore seeking to construct a new identity in 
England. 


I. Exile 

Like many migrants and exiles, Foscolo optimistically believed that migration 
might lead to self-improvement. He thought that England would be a liberal land 
where he could live decorously and publish freely. In Florence the author had 
made useful acquaintances like that of William Stewart Rose, from whom he 
gained the impression that the British would warmly embrace Italian exiles. 
After his arrival in England, however, Foscolo’s hopes were partly disappointed. 
While letters to Italian friends and family indicate that he received assistance 
and recognition from notable individuals? Foscolo’s correspondence also 
testifies that he encountered several problems, including financial hardships and 
difficulties in writing. In an early letter to his family, for instance, he 
complained about the cost of living: “un pezzetto di pane, che in Italia si 


2 British interest in the political situation of Italy had slowly increased in the second half 
of the eighteenth century with various studies of Italian history and the publication of 
Account of Corsica (1768) by James Boswell, who disapproved of the common prejudice 
against Italians as a mass of barbarians unconcerned about their own freedom. Thereafter, 
in the early nineteenth century, the principle of liberty for all stimulated by the French 
Revolution and Napoleon’s repeated conquests in Italy, had focused the attention of more 
and more British on the future of the Italians (Marshall 86-88). 

3 See, for instance, Foscolo’s letter to Giuseppe Grassi (October 19, 1816, Epistolario 
XX: 43). 


Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 219 


pagherebbe due soldi, qui costa dieci e dodici” (October 25, 1816, Epistolario 
XX: 43).4 Foscolo dreaded poverty, especially because he saw the importance of 
a decorous appearance among the British elite. Being no aristocrat himself but 
aiming to enjoy an extravagant lifestyle, the exile had to rely on either the 
generosity of others or his own work. But this did not prove easy. People 
eventually grew tired of giving and lending money to Foscolo. And writing in 
England was not the same as writing in Italy: the Italian writer had to cope with 
a new language, a new audience, and a new culture. 

Foscolo had initially hoped to publish in Italian while in exile, but this plan 
proved impractical. The author expresses his frustration in a letter addressed to 
Quirina Mocenni Magiotti, a friend and benefactress who resided in Italy: 


Moltissimi lo studiano [l’italiano], pochi lo imparano: tutti affettano 0 presumono di 
saperlo. Ma i libraji assicurano che appena d’un libro Italiano, anche classico, si vendono 
cinquecento copie in tre anni; — e d’un libro Inglese, d’autore di qualche nome, se ne 
vendono cinque e spesso sei mila copie in due o tre settimane. Anche delle opere derise 
da tutti, esce la terza edizione in un anno. Qui tutto é moda, emulazione di spese, e 
curiosita, e tutti vogliono ostentare sapere [...]. 

(February 20, 1818, Epistolario XX: 289) 


Foscolo, looking for Quirina’s sympathy, describes all British people as 
superficial and pretentious. Contrary to appearances — the Italian writer informs 
his benefactress — few readers really knew Italian and were willing to buy 
books written in it. Since the demand for Italian literature was insufficient to 
sustain his aspirations, Foscolo understood that, in order to participate profitably 
in the new literary scene, he would be obliged to publish in English. 

Upon his arrival, however, Foscolo did not know English well and, at thirty- 
eight years of age, he found it quite difficult to learn to write effectively in this 
new foreign language.» To say something relevant in literature, writers often 
break the norm and play masterfully with language. But, as Stanislav Baranczak 
has pointed out in a study on the relation between exile and writing, writers may 
break only the rules that bind them, and these rules come most naturally from 
their native language (438). Foscolo, aware of his own limitations, often 
mentioned in his correspondence the stifling difficulties of translating, or having 
his thoughts translated, from Italian into English and even, at times, from Italian 


4 Conversely, several British Romantic poets like Shelley, Byron, and Keats went to Italy 
because, among other things, it allowed a cheaper life. In Julian and Maddalo (1818), 
Shelley referred to Italy as “paradise of exiles” (1.57). 

5 At the age of thirty-nine, Foscolo wrote to Lady Flint: “Dio volesse ch’io scrivessi 
Inglese, come voi Milady, scrivete Italiano! — ma, pur troppo, sono vecchio oggimai, e 
non posso imparare altre lingue” (August 15, 1817, Epistolario XX: 211). 


220 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


into French, which, in turn, was rendered in English by hired translators. (The 
author was occasionally compelled to write articles in French because he could 
not find English translators who knew Italian well enough.)® In another letter to 
Quirina Mocenni Magiotti, Foscolo affirmed, “Quel dovere scrivere in lingua 
non mia, e l’essere debitore a’ traduttori mi ammazza |’ingegno” (November 8, 
1818, Epistolario XX: 430). More than a year later, to his friend Gino Capponi 
Foscolo reiterated the complaint of being slain by translators in a harsher tone: 


[L]’essere io diventato la bestia da soma di Murray, di Gifford, e di Jeffery, — e 
l’essermi obbligato a dilettare il mondo Inglese del quale in parte ignoro, ed in parte 
disamo il gusto letterario, — e il dovere tradurre, o per parlare pil. veramente, stemperare 
i miei pensieri in Francioso, si che poi siano annacquati venalmente in Inglese, sono 
sciagure e fatiche e vergogne alle quali non posso omai reggere piu. 

(May 23-30, 1820, Epistolario XXI: 185) 


The use of such negative terms as “sciagure” and “vergogne” makes 
Foscolo’s dissatisfaction clear. The writer defines his relation to the British 
world as an unequal one based on servitude. Foscolo characterizes himself as a 
“bestia da soma” that must follow not only the dictates of the English language, 
but also those of the British audience and publishers. Starting from the second 
half of the eighteenth century, the British literary system was undergoing a 
transition from the system of literary patronage to subscription publishing, a 
problematic process which subjected the production of art to the forces of the 
market (Williams 32). When still in Italy, at the University of Pavia, Foscolo 
had given a speech decrying the making of literature into a business. Ironically, 
once in England, he was compelled to disregard his precepts and suffer what he 
considered a humiliating form of prostitution: a dilemma which apparently 
haunted him till the end of his days.” 

Realizing that he could not produce literary works in English worthy of his 
expectations, primarily because he considered an author’s style untranslatable,® 


6 See letters to Quirina Mocenni Magiotti (February 20, 1818, Epistolario XX: 290; 
March 3, 1818, Epistolario XX: 292), and a letter to Lord Holland (March 1818, 
Epistolario XX: 309-10). 

a Foscolo relieves his conscience in a letter to Hudson Gurney, dated August 12, 1826: 
“When I was sent at [sic] Pavia, my first sermon to the University warned my young 
Countryman [sic] of the infamy and public as well as domestic calamities inevitably 
arising from bartering genius and literature for money. Necessity having compelled me 
here to act against my own principles I was punished even when I gathered the earnings 
of my writings: because I could never help feeling an inward humiliation, and I compared 
myself to a woman selling her own charm to a brutal purchaser” (Tobler 83). 

8 As Foscolo wrote to Lord Guilford, “lo stile non si traduce” (May-June 1817, 
Epistolario XX: 167). 


Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 221 


Foscolo turned with some sorrow to literary criticism,? a genre that, in his 
opinion, demanded less art and imagination and that should therefore be easier 
to translate.!° For eleven years Foscolo wrote extensively about Italian 
literature, exploiting an interest in things Italian that had begun in the second 
half of the eighteenth century. Initially he worked incognito, writing for John 
Cam Hobhouse the “Essay on the Present Literature of Italy,” which appeared in 
Historical Illustrations of the IV Canto of Child Harold. He then delivered 
public lectures on Italian literature, and drafted some of his unfinished Letters 
Written from England, in which he intended to compare England to Italy. 
Foscolo also planned to publish in thirty-six volumes a series on classical Italian 
authors, which would include their work, biography, criticism, and historical 
context, and which, he imagined, would prove profitable (May 15, 1818, 
Epistolario XX: 321-22). Many of Foscolo’s projects initiated in England, 
however, either failed or remained incomplete.!! 

Among Foscolo’s fortunate literary undertakings in exile is his work on 
Dante. Foscolo, who had shown an early interest in the medieval poet,!2 made 
much of the fact that Dante’s reputation was growing just as he arrived in 
England. He contributed to augmenting Dante’s fame by publishing several 
studies in English translation, including two articles printed in the February and 


9 Although scholars generally agree that Foscolo became the “father” of Italian literary 
criticism after coming to England (Lindon 145), the Italian writer was not always happy 
to serve in this new role. On February 20, 1818, Foscolo wrote to Quirina Mocenni 
Magiotti that he was unwilling to publish literary articles under his name (Epistolario, 
XX: 290). Some months later, in another letter to Quirina, Foscolo depicted literary 
criticism as a profession inferior to writing literature: “In Inghilterra lo scrivere per 
giornali [...] s’ha per pit’ decoroso che in Italia — bensi anche qui un autore é mille volte 
a stimato che un giornalista” (November 8, 1818, Epistolario XX: 430). 

0 Foscolo wrote to Samuel Rogers on February 15(?) 1818: “Vous m’avez dit, 
Monsieur, que maintenant il [Mr. Murray] désirerait un ouvrage qui traite principalement 
de littérature Italienne. Je préférerais de mon coté aussi et pour la tranquillité de ma vie 
et pour mon caractére, de ne m’adonner qu’a I’histoire critique littéraire, et je crois d’étre 
pourvu d’assez de moyens pour cette branche de travail. La traduction serait plus aisée, 
car le style demanderoit moins d’effusion naturelle d’4me, moins d’art et d’imagination; 
et se borneroit a |’élégance et a la clarté nécessaires a la narration et au criticisme” 
tae XX: 284). 

! In addition to the distress caused by a wavering financial state and the challenges of 
writing in a new language, Foscolo also had to cope with the inconvenience of not being 
able to consult an adequate library, a crucial component for an ambitious series on 
classical Italian authors. See the letter addressed to Samuel Rogers on February 15 (?) 
1818 (Epistolario XX: 281-82). 

2 In Dei sepolcri, a notable early poem, Foscolo mentioned Dante and referred to him as 
“Ghibellin fuggiasco” (174). 


222 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


September editions of the 1818 Edinburgh Review;!3 a book on Petrarch, Essays 
on Petrarch (1823), which contained the essay “Parallel between Dante and 
Petrarch”; and an Italian commentary on the whole Commedia (entitled 
Discorso sul testo della Divina Commedia), of which only the first volume was 
printed in 1825 by William Pickering. (The complete work came out 
posthumously in 1842-43, edited by Giuseppe Mazzini.) 

Foscolo’s scholarship on Dante has been regarded as incomplete and, at 
times, inaccurate. He is said to be good as a poet-critic but limited as an 
academic critic (e.g., O’Neill 112). Foscolo’s most important contribution was 
to offer a new perspective in studies of Dante and the Middle Ages: he was the 
first to apply Vico’s ideas discussed in the New Science to literary criticism. 
Contemporary scholarship!4 — Foscolo pointed out — failed to provide a 
comprehensive historical and literary discussion of the Middle Ages.!5 Foscolo 
attempted to supply such a desideratum by offering detailed criticism relating 
Dante’s work to its socio-political context. He resisted the assumption that 
Dante had to be approached in terms of what were understood as timeless, 
universal values. The portrait of the medieval poet resulting from Foscolo’s 
writings was that of Dante as a man, a Romantic nationalist who “conceived and 
executed the project of creating the Language and the Poetry of a nation” and 
who exposed “all the political wounds of his country [...] teaching the Church 
and the States of Italy, that the imprudence of the Popes, and the civil wars of 
the cities, and the consequent introduction of foreign arms, must lead to the 
eternal slavery and disgrace of the Italians” (Studi su Dante 68). Through his 
commentaries Foscolo reintroduced Dante’s work as critical of papal authority, 
thereby rendering it more palatable to a Protestant British audience.!® Like 


13 At the request of the editor of the Edinburgh Review, Lord Jeffrey, Foscolo wrote a 
two-part article, “Dante, with a New Italian Commentary, By G. Baglioli, Paris, 1818. 
The Vision of Dante Translated by the Reverend H. F. Cary, A.M., 3 vol. 18 mo., 
London, 1818,” published in February 1818; and “Observations Concerning the Question 
of the Originality of the Poem of Dante, By F. Cancellieri,” published in September 1818. 
I cite these articles as republished in Studi su Dante by Giovanni Da Pozzo. 

14 See Pierre-Louis Ginguené’s Histoire littéraire d’Italie (first volume published in 
1811); J.C. Sismondi’s De la littérature du midi de |’Europe (1813); and Henry Hallam’s 
View of the State of Europe (1818). 

5 “[A] commentary upon Dante, which should be useful in a historical and political 
view, still remains to be executed” (Studi su Dante 132). “Dante, notwithstanding the 
number of his biographers has not yet had an historian” (Studi su Dante 138). 

6 As attested by some travel books of the early nineteenth century, many British equated 
Catholicism with autocracy (Black 189). For them, the Catholic religion drew on 
credulity and superstition, and led to misery, poverty, clerical rule, and oppression. Such 
prejudices were increased by historical facts, such as the close association of Catholicism 
and Jacobism and the predominance of Catholicism in France and Spain, Britain’s 
principal enemies. Although critical of the pope, the Commedia generally embraced a 


Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 223 


many of his contemporaries, Foscolo resented the papacy’s part in the 
misfortunes of Italy. It was generally held that Pope Pius VII and his Secretary 
of State, Cardinal Consalvi, had discreetly courted Austrian intervention. A view 
of Dante as a proto-Protestant reached its extreme later, in Gabriele’s Rossetti’s 
Sullo spirito antipapale (1832). 

To sum up, Foscolo’s early experience in England shows that a literary 
exile gains stature abroad to the extent that he assumes a hybrid nature that 
simultaneously exhibits the characteristics of his homeland and acquires the 
colors of his new environment; in other words, to the extent that he lets himself 
be used and consumed as an object. As Foscolo became visible, not only 
because of his work on Dante and Italian literature in general, but also because 
of his second edition of the novel Ortis published in England in 1817 by the well 
reputed John Murray, he himself was in a position to confer authority. Foscolo 
became valuable for the British in that he represented the authentic Italian 
scholar who could act as a cultural translator in suggesting a reinterpretation of 
Italian literature, and could validate or invalidate British critical works on and 
translations of Italian literature. 


II. Translation 

In England, Foscolo’s relation to the world of translation was quite complex. He 
continued to translate foreign literature into Italian, producing a few minor 
versions.!7 Foscolo also acted as a cultural translator and authenticator of 
cultural translations, by critiquing English commentaries on Italian literature and 
by reviewing English translations of Italian literary works. Various translators, 
including William Stewart Rose (Ariosto’s Orlando) and Jeremiah Holme 
Wiffen (Tasso’s Gerusalemme liberata), benefited from Foscolo’s general 
opinion of previous renderings of Italian literature into English and from his 
practical advice on translating specific difficult passages.!8 Most importantly for 


Catholic theology. As a consequence, it was rendered relatively late in English. The 
Divine Comedy was first translated in Catholic countries: Spain (1428), Catalonia (1429), 
and France (1550). Only in the late eighteenth century did a complete version appear in 
states of the religious reform: Germany (1767) and England (Clemens 423). Clemens 
apparently indicates that the first complete English version appeared in 1785, but Henry 
Boyd’s 1802 rendering was the earliest published. 

7 Foscolo translated parts of the J/iad and the Euthanasie of Jacob Heinrich Meister. 

8 For Rose, see letter dated November 9, 1821 (Epistolario XXI: 343); for Wiffen, see 
letter dated December 1822 (Epistolario XXII: 147). See also the letter by Roger 
Wilbraham, who thanks Foscolo for helping him understand the Italian language and 
literature: “avete avuto sempre la bonta di sciogliere moltissimi miei dubbi e di 
correggere parecchi errori particolarmente riguardanti la lingua e la letteratura del vostro 
bel paese” (October 1818, Epistolario XX: 426). 


224 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


this article, Cyrus Redding mentions that he showed the Italian exile an English 
version of Dante’s /nferno by Nathaniel Howard and asked his opinion (Redding 
I: iii). One of Foscolo’s major accomplishments as supervisor of cultural 
translation was his contribution to Cary’s version of the Divine Comedy. In this 
section, I will show how exiles can help make translations authoritative, and will 
focus on the February 1818 article of the Edinburgh Review, which ends with a 
positive evaluation of the Vision. 

Although the 1818 Edinburgh Review article was not signed, it was long 
believed to have been written entirely by Foscolo.!9 But in 1971, Beatrice 
Corrigan argued that the last section was probably actually penned by Samuel 
Rogers (211-25),?9 an irregular situation which symbolically represents the sort 
of “translation” which Foscolo himself had to undergo in England, and typifies 
him as a hybrid product of exile. We know that Foscolo repeatedly complained 
about this article because of inadequate translation and various omissions and 
additions. Some of these alterations to his text, as Corrigan has demonstrated 
(214, 216), were suggested by the then editor of the Edinburgh Review, Francis 
Jeffrey, whose aim was to make the average reader understand Foscolo’s essay 
better by relating Italian literature to a well-known background (e.g., through 
comparisons with Shakespeare’s work). Foscolo described his situation to 
Quirina Mocenni Magiotti on May 15, 1818: 


L’articolo mio intorno a Dante di cui ti scrissi mesi fa, andd smarrito; mentr’io lo 
rifaceva, fu ritrovato; ma io intanto l’aveva rifatto meglio —. Avvenne anche che il 
traduttore o per infingardaggine, o per altro non me ne mando a stampare se per un terzo 
— e pessimamente tradotto, — eppure quel terzo avverd e superd di molto I’aspettativa 
de’ dotti; — fu detto e scritto che quel frammento d’articolo non era cosa /taliana, o 
Francese né Inglese; ma Europea. 

(Epistolario XX: 320-21) 


The word “eppure” points out Foscolo’s bewilderment at the article’s success 
and draws a line between the writer’s initial negative attitude toward it and his 
final acceptance of it as a sort of cooperative European accomplishment.?! 


19 Foscolo wrote his essay in Italian and then had it translated in part by Roger 
Wilbraham and mostly by his friends William Wallace and Sir James Mackintosh. The 
latter also edited and made some additions to it with Samuel Rogers (Corrigan 220, 
Toynbee I: 466). 

9 Since what might be Rogers’s criticism seems to agree with Foscolo’s poetics, since 
there is no record of Foscolo’s despising Cary’s translation, and, most significantly, since 
the article was generally received as Foscolo’s, I consider it a valid source for discussing 
Foscolo’s contribution to making Cary’s translation authoritative. In the following pages, 
I refer to the author of those parts of the 1818 Edinburgh Review article that Corrigan has 
suggested were Rogers’s as simply “the critic” or “the scholar.” 

! Foscolo’s acceptance is also evident from a letter addressed to Lord Holland, in which 
he seems to offer boundless freedom to the translator of his next article to be published in 


Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 225 


Foscolo’s approval probably also resulted from the fact that senre had 
apologized to him for the confusion and paid him well for his contribution.22 

The first important point in the February Edinburgh Review article is the 
suggestion that those who want to know more about Dante ought to read his 
actual works rather than rely on past summaries and commentaries: 


Readers, especially foreign readers, believe, on the faith of the commentators, that they 
have seen the whole; like the readers of modern travels, who fancy that they know a 
country from the descriptions of those who have run through it with a road-book and a 
dictionary, and return home to publish their tour. 

(Studi su Dante 4) 


Foscolo likens the reading of commentaries on Dante to the reading of 
tourists’ descriptions of Italy, neither of which can provide complete familiarity 
of the subject. Foscolo’s position within his socio-political environment 
informed his hermeneutics: in comparing commentaries on Dante’s work to 
travel narratives, the Italian writer reveals the critical perspective of an outsider. 
His personal experience as an exile, and his acute awareness of the limited 
appreciation among the British of Italy, Italian, and Italians (including himself), 
no doubt conditioned Foscolo’s suggestion to “return” to the original, to Dante’s 
text. The author will later reiterate this point in the September Edinburgh 
Review article: “Dante is, perhaps, the poet most spoken of, and least read by 
foreigners” (Studi su Dante 100). Here Foscolo politely criticizes his audience 
for what he considers their pretentious approach to Italian literature. 

Foscolo’s exhortation to read Dante was furthered by the rediscovery of 
Cary’s translation four years after its initial publication. Armed with Cary’s 
reliable version of the Commedia, readers could actively challenge any rigid 
interpretation of the source text and form their own opinions. Cary’s Vision is 
praised at the end of the February 1818 article of the Edinburgh Review: 


Of all the translators of Dante with whom we are acquainted, Mr. Cary is the most 
successful; and we cannot but consider his work as a great acquisition to the English 
reader. It is executed with a fidelity almost without example; and, though the measure he 


September: “Veuillez bien lui [Sir James Mackintosh] raccomander que la traduction de 
mon essai sur Dante doit étre faite ad plenum arbitrium du traducteur, qui doit méme 
corriger mes defauts [sic] d’expression; car malheureusement je suis oblige d’ecrire [sic] 
en Frangais; et ma conscience me reproche souvent d’employer des mots desquels je ne 
suis pas sur” (March 1818, Epistolario XX: 309). 

2 To secure the second part of the article for the Edinburgh Review from the offended 
Foscolo, Lord Jeffrey sent him eighty-five pounds, and John Allen, Lord Holland’s 
private physician and librarian who had acted as intermediary between Foscolo and 
Jeffrey, added more (Epistolario XX: 317-18; Corrigan 224). 


226 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


has adopted, conveys no idea of the original stanza, it is perhaps the best for his purpose, 
and what Dante himself would have chosen, if he had written in English and in a later 
day. 

(Studi su Dante 42) 


The scholar’s approbation of Cary’s rendering follows a precise and 
organized plan which confers status upon both the translator and the original 
text. First of all, the critic argues that Cary has been the most successful among 
those who have attempted to translate the Divine Comedy because of his 
“fidelity” to Dante. At the same time, by calling Cary’s work “a great 
acquisition to the English reader,” the scholar suggests the value of the source 
text and introduces Cary as a sort of prophet who has opened the door to 
something special. Secondly, the critic attempts to make Cary visible by 
highlighting his translation techniques, thereby removing him from the 
marginalized position held by most contemporary English translators. The 
scholar stresses that Cary has not only been faithful to the source text, but has 
also responsibly taken liberties with Dante’s original in order to adapt it to a 
different time and language. This strategy undoubtedly pleased Foscolo, who 
opposed literal translations and had, earlier in his career, rewritten his rendering 
of Laurence Sterne’s Sentimental Journey many times so that it could read as a 
contemporary piece of literature.23 Later in the essay, the critic elaborates this 
point: 


Some years ago, Mr. Hayley published a translation of the three first Cantos of that 
Poem, in which he endeavored to give an idea of Dante’s peculiar manner, by introducing 
his triple rhyme. It was written with a considerable degree of spirit and elegance; but we 
cannot much regret that he proceeded no further. The difficulties which he had to 
encounter were almost insurmountable; at least he has led us to think so, by his many 
deviations from the text [...]. Of such offences we cannot accuse Mr. Cary. Throughout 
he discovers the will and the power to do justice to his author. He has omitted nothing, he 
has added nothing; and though here and there his inversions are ungraceful, and his 


23 About translation in general, Foscolo stated: “Alla traduzione letterale e cadaverica 
non puo soggettarsi se non un grammatico, e [...] alla versione animata vuolsi un poeta 
[...]. La lingua della traduzione dovend’essere assolutamente diversa, la liberta di 
maneggiarla e d’accomodarla all’originale dev’essere piena e assoluta; ma il disegno de’ 
pensieri, |’architettura del libro, la passione del poema e tutti i suoi caratteri sono fondati 
su la natura dell’ingegno e del cuore umano, e la natura potendo rappresentarsi sempre 
ugualmente in tutte le lingue malgrado le loro infinite modificazioni, la fedelta in queste 
pitture dev’essere serbata dal traduttore con cura e con religione” (Lezioni VII: 205). 
Foscolo believed in the catalyzing power translation might have for language and culture, 
as is clear from the introduction to his partial Italian rendering of the //iad and in letters 
where he mentions his new translation of Homer. To Hudson Gurney he wrote, “The 
translation of the J/iad, I trust, will refresh the Italian Literature, and create, I dare say, a 
sterling and yet new Italian language” (August 12, 1826, Tobler 84). 





Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 227 


phrases a little obsolete, he walks not unfrequently by the side of his master, and 
sometimes perhaps goes beyond him. 
(Studi su Dante 42-44) 


The scholar’s approval of Cary reaches its apex when he goes so far as to 
suggest that the translator seems at times even to exceed Dante and become 
therefore an author himself. While the idea of Dante being the “master” recalls 
Foscolo’s characterization of translation as “servile,” this passage definitely 
appears to have been written by somebody else, since Foscolo seems unlikely to 
have thought anyone could surpass Dante (Corrigan 217), and the Italian writer 
was no great authority on “obsolete” English phraseology or “ungraceful 
inversions.”24 By stressing Cary’s poetic genius and originality, the critic 
introduces him as a Romantic translator, faithful and at the same time creative. 

With his Vision, Cary took the final step toward making Dante into an 
author worthy of being embraced by the English-speaking world. The 
assimilation of a writer’s work into another culture, as Piotr Kuhiwczak has 
pointed out, is a long process with many transitional stages (80-94). In 
eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century Great Britain, Dante was slowly 
constructed into an author by a series of different appropriations of his 
Commedia.2> This construction accompanied the development of new literary 
models and of the idea of the modern writer as a proprietor and original artist. 
Cary completed this process by having Dante speak English, and Foscolo’s 
articles in the Edinburgh Review helped both Dante and Cary by revaluing the 
former and by contributing to the success of the latter’s translation of the Divine 
Comedy.*6 

Foscolo’s commentaries were effective principally because they were 
printed in a magazine which, as King puts it, was “one of the most powerful, for 
good and evil,” in the second decade of the nineteenth century (117). The 
Edinburgh Review publicity of Cary’s translation was soon echoed by others. In 
September 1818, the Scots Magazine started a series of papers on the 
Commedia, mainly long quotations from “Mr. Cary’s faithful transcript” (King 


24 The February article in the Edinburgh Review, which characterizes Cary’s translation 
as a thorough piece of non-partisan scholarship, does contain some negative criticism: 
“Mr. Cary reminds us sometimes of Shakespeare, — oftener of Milton; but, in his anxiety 
to imitate them, he becomes more antiquated than either; and we hope, that, when he 
republishes his translation, which, we trust, he soon will, in a larger and more legible 
character, he will think proper to modernize the language a little, and give more 
simplicity and sweetness to many parts of it” (Studi su Dante 48). 
For a more detailed study see my dissertation “Appropriations of Dante.” 

© The British scholar Samuel Coleridge also contributed to the positive reception of 

Dante and of Cary’s translation of the Divine Comedy in England (Cooksey 366-72). 


228 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


118). In June 1819, the Eclectic Review asserted that the Vision was “perhaps 
the best translation of any poet in the whole compass of English literature” 
(King 118). Furthermore, Cary’s version was employed and appreciated by 
notable contemporary British writers. For instance, Keats brought Cary’s Dante 
with him during his tour of the Lake District and Highlands of Scotland (1818), 
and Shelley used it as an aid for a first reading of the Commedia in Italian. As a 
result, the Vision became the authoritative translation of Dante’s Divine Comedy 
into English, and within one year every previous copy of it was sold. “The work 
was at once eagerly sought after. About a thousand copies of the first edition, 
that remained on hand, were immediately disposed of; in less than three months 
a new edition was called for” (Cary II, 103). From 1818 till the end of the 
century, the Commedia became a popular, standard work.2? Cary supported the 
process by publishing his last edition of it (1844) in an inexpensive format 
(Toynbee I, 501-02). 


III. Return 

Migration left an indelible mark on Foscolo, as both a man and a writer. At the 
young age of fourteen he had left Zante, his native land, and thereafter his 
literary work frequently referred to the subject of exile, especially his early 
poetry and Le ultime lettere di Jacopo Ortis, a novel about the loss of his first 
political homeland, Venice. Foscolo was a typical Romantic exile: he was both a 
nomad eager to explore new territories, and also a nostalgic exile longing to 
return home.28 The epigraph to this article reproduces the last tercet of Foscolo’s 
“A Zacinto.” In these verses, written when he was a young man, Foscolo 
predicts that poetry is the only means through which he would be able to return 
to Zante.29 In England, Foscolo could never quite find the perfect occasion to 
return physically to his two homelands, Zante and Italy,>9 nor did he maintain 
hope for even the poetic return expressed in “A Zacinto.” The poet who now 
needed translation at times from a second language, French, into a third 


27 Between 1820 and 1860, Dante became more than fashionable: he became popular 
(Caesar 66). The popularity of Cary’s Vision is proudly acknowledged by the translator 
himself in a letter dated November 1825, addressed to Thomas Price. “Henry [Cary’s 
son] went yesterday to lay out part of his fee in a bookseller’s shop in Piccadilly, and I 
must indulge a translator’s vanity so far as to relate what there befell him. ‘I have some 
old College books that I should like to exchange,” said Henry. ‘They would be of no use 
to me,’ said the man, ‘but if you have any standard works I should like to take them.’ 
‘What do you mean by standard works’ says H., when the man beginning ‘Cary’s Dante, 
Sir!’ he burst into one of his laughs, at which the man was so confused that H. found 
necessary to explain the cause of his mirth” (King 121-22). 

8 See John Durham Peters’s discussion of Novalis’s definition of Romantic exile (29). 
29 Ciccarelli has pointed out that with “A Zacinto,” Foscolo compensates for the loss of 
Venice to the Austrians with “the invention of the geo-mythical homeland” (35). 

30 Both Zante and Italy are equally referred to in Foscolo’s writings as his homeland. 


Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 229 


language, English, became an exile also from his own poetic genius. Still, the 
concept of return played an important role in Foscolo’s new life and became 
crucial for the construction of his status in England. 

To understand Foscolo’s new path of return, it will be necessary to discuss 
the process which led the author to shift from writing literature to engaging in 
what I have defined as cultural translation and transference. The Italian scholar 
Paolo Valesio has suggested that poetry and translation are closely affiliated, 
that a poet should be seen as a translator of images into words and as a 
transgressor of the laws of language (287). Valesio has also pointed out that 
when a poet goes into exile, the transgression formerly accomplished at the level 
of language is now transformed into a literal crossing of a country’s border.>! 
The activity of “trans-poetry” (Valesio’s term for the transgressive translation of 
images into poetry) is, in a foreign country, transformed into recovery of the 
“language of tradition.” In England, Italy’s cultural tradition became the only 
material Foscolo could effectively “translate,” and it offered him the opportunity 
to remain a poet of sorts, a translator of images. Foscolo transformed himself 
into a new Ortis, a Didimo who accepted exile and became a describer of events, 
a critic and commentator who mediated Italian culture into British terms, a 
translator instead of a creator. This type of literary accomplishment would in 
Foscolo’s new environment have the same function that poetry had earlier 
fulfilled: it could provide a coherent identity, an enduring visibility, some 
financial stability, and even a new form of homecoming. 

Before his exile, Foscolo’s identity was in crisis, as was the identity of Italy, 
which had not yet become a united country. Foscolo migrated because his 
homeland and his self were threatened by an alien invader. Once the writer left 
Italy, however, his identity was further fragmented in its encounter with a 
foreign reality. Foscolo’s first reaction was to attempt to reconstruct and 
reinforce a solid image of his self. Soon after departing from Italy in 1816, he 
asked the Countess of Albany to send the painted portrait of himself she was 
keeping.32 The painting, which was lost for two years at the customs in 
Rotterdam, finally reached Foscolo in 1818 and was then hung as a sort of 


31 «y poeta espatriato, che ha compiuto una trasgressione tutt’altro che verbale, non ha 
pill bisogno di sfogare la sua trans-gressivita con un assalto (pill o meno edipico) al corpo 
della lingua materna; e tende invece ad esprimere la sua attivita di trans-poesia come 
recupero della lingua della tradizione nella sua integrita, anche se si tratta di un’integrita 

lurivoca” (300-01). 

2 The painting was accomplished by Francesco Saverio Fabre. Foscolo mentions it in a 
letter dated September 6, 1818, addressed to the Countess of Albany: “Or pende in una 
sala del famoso librajo, e (secondo me) famoso Panurgo Murray servo-padrone, ¢ 
mecenate idiotissimo degli Autori pid illustri che vivano; e il mio ritratto ha compagni 
quel di Lord Byron, et cinque o sei altri poeti alla moda” (Epistolario XX: 367). 


230 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


advertisement at the publisher Murray. Foscolo further attempted to reconstruct 
his persona through cultural transference, by presenting through himself a new 
translation of the Italian tradition, a new model of Dante: the medieval poet, also 
an exile, gave Foscolo the voice to speak, and Foscolo became a new Dante. 
(Foscolo ended the September Edinburgh Review article with a discussion of 
Dante’s exile, thus leading his audience to the comparison Foscolo-Dante.)?3 
This identification was rendered easier by the atmosphere in England and 
Europe in general at that time. In the context of rediscovery of the Middle Ages 
and of concern for the political situation of contemporary Italy, British 
Romantics had drawn a connection between Dante and current Italian exiles.34 
Thus Foscolo, who advocated Italy’s freedom from foreign domination, was 
naturally seen as a sort of re-incarnation of Dante.>> 

Unlike Dante, Foscolo in exile did not accomplish a masterpiece of western 
literature comparable to the Commedia. His exilic circumstances and 
motivations were quite different from the medieval poet’s. First of all, the loss 
of reliable objects and of a dependable language played a bigger role for 
Foscolo, since Dante did not move to a totally foreign place and his creative 
capacity was consequently not affected to such a degree. Secondly, Foscolo 
belonged to a considerably different age. Dante was able to rely on the 
assistance of his patrons, but Foscolo could earn a living in early nineteenth- 
century England only by working as a literary critic and translator of Italian 
culture. The exilic output of the two writers was similar, however, in so far as 
both employed their work as a means of effecting some kind of return to their 
homeland. While Dante’s Divine Comedy lays down a pattern of exile and 
homecoming, where the poet hopes that literary success will allow him an actual 
return to contemporary Florence, Foscolo’s exilic work provides the occasion 
for a more idealistic return of the author to his homeland’s literary past. In 
England Foscolo not only abandoned poetry, the vehicle by which he had earlier 


33 “From what he [Foscolo] chooses to include and exclude [in his Edinburgh Review 
articles] it is evident that it is his identity with the Florentine that motivates his interest 
and shapes his perception” (Cooksey 380). 

“Such association between Dante and contemporary Italian exiles was first cultivated 
by Italian scholars. In Italy, it was mostly intellectuals who fostered the idea of political 
independence. For these literati, Dante became a model, a writer who had transformed the 
vernacular of his country into a literary language, and an exile who had fought for his 
own land. [...] Dante was employed by Italian intellectuals, especially exiles like 
Foscolo, as a means to build continuity with past literary tradition and, by relating their 
political situation to Dante’s own, to elevate their own literary and moral standing” 
(eaudenal 180). 

5 Foscolo also acquired a certain Byronic aura since Lord Byron influenced Dante’s 
reception in England mainly by writing works inspired by the medieval poet, for instance 
The Prophecy of Dante (1821), and by translating the Francesca episode (1820) (Cooksey 
380). 


| 
{ 


Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 231 


hoped to effect a final conjunction with his native land, but he even lost serious 
interest in returning to his geographical homeland. After moving to Britain, 
Foscolo’s hope for a united Italy had vanished and with it his hopes for the 
Italian audience for whom he had earlier written encouraging and prophetic 
works.36 Returning to Italy came to mean confronting a dead country, an 
unpleasant reality the author preferred not to face.37 In exile, Foscolo’s concept 
of homecoming evolved from a nostalgia representable in spatial terms to one 
representable in temporal terms. The homecoming suggested in “A Zacinto,” a 
poetic return to his lost home in space (the land of his birth), became a scholarly 
return to a lost home in time (the Italy of the literary tradition), his only 
remaining link with Italian culture. Instead of traversing geographical 
boundaries, Foscolo transcended cultural limits, and cultural translation acquired 
for him a value similar to that which poetry had earlier possessed. Through this 
literary homecoming, Foscolo could begin to recompose his fragmented identity 
with a comforting narrative of the self, and thereby attain what most counted for 
him in England: a literary status that was in some measure respectable and 
rewarding. 


University of Memphis 


36 Chemotti sees Foscolo’s decision to go into exile as evidence that he had lost hope for 
Italy’s unity (149). Puppo has pointed out that Foscolo’s exile caused a conflict and 
fracture between him and the Italian Romantic generation (148). 

37 After the death of his mother (May 24, 1817), Foscolo began to consider moving back 
to Zante or Italy. But these plans never materialized. At first Foscolo delayed the voyage 
because of an injury. Thereafter, he postponed it because of financial concerns, and could 
never finally decide to leave. By this time, Italy itself had died for Foscolo. In a letter to 
James Whishaw, Foscolo refers to Italy as “incadaverita e fetente” (November 15, 1817, 
Epistolario XX: 245). 


232 Cosetta Gaudenzi 


Works Cited 


Baranczak, Stanislav. “Tongue-Tied Eloquence: Notes on Language, Exile, and Writing.” 
University of Toronto Quarterly 58 (1989): 429-38. 

Bhabha, Homi. The Location of Culture. London: Routledge, 1994. 

Black, Jeremy. The British and the Grand Tour. London: Croom Helm, 1985. 

Caesar, Michael, ed. Dante: The Critical Heritage 1314(?)-1870. London: Routledge, 
1989. 

Cambon, Glauco. Ugo Foscolo: Poet of Exile. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1980. 

Cary, Henry. Memoir of the Rev. Henry Francis Cary, M.A., Translator of Dante, with 
his Literary Journal and Letters. 2 vols. London: Edward Moxon, 1847. 

Chemotti, Saveria. “Il tempio ‘svelato’: in margine a una originale interpretazione 
dell’esilio di Ugo Foscolo.” La rassegna della letteratura italiana 88 (1984): 146- 
64. 

Ciccarelli, Andrea. “Foscolo, Manzoni, and the Culture of Exile.” L ’esilio come certezza. 
Ed. Andrea Ciccarelli and Paolo A. Giordano. West Lafayette: Bordighera, 1998. 
22-43. 

Clemens, Robert. “Dante nel mondo.” Atti del congresso internazionale di studi 
danteschi, 20-27 aprile 1965. Ed. Societa dantesca italiana e Associazione 
internazionale per gli studi di lingua e letteratura italiana. 2 vols. Firenze: Sansoni, 
1966. 2: 407-31. 

Cooksey, Thomas. “Dante’s England, 1818: The Contribution of Cary, Coleridge, and 
Foscolo to the British Reception of Dante.” Papers on Language and Literature 20 
(1984): 355-81. 

Corrigan, Beatrice. “Foscolo’s Articles on Dante in the Edinburgh Review: A Study in 
Collaboration.” Collected Essays on Italian Language & Literature Presented to 
Kathleen Speight. Ed. Giovanni Aquilecchia, Stephen N. Cristea, and Sheila Ralphs. 
Manchester: Manchester UP, 1971. 211-25. 

Foscolo, Ugo. Edizione nazionale delle opere di Ugo Foscolo. 22 vols. Firenze: Le 
Monnier, 1933-94. 

. Epistolario: 7 settembre 1816-fine del 1818. Ed. Mario Scotti. Firenze: Le 
Monnier, 1970. Vol. 20. Edizione nazionale delle opere di Ugo Foscolo. 

. Epistolario: 1819-182]. Ed. Mario Scotti. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1974. Vol. 21. 
Edizione nazionale delle opere di Ugo Foscolo. 

. Epistolario: 1822-1824. Ed. Mario Scotti. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1994. Vol. 22. 
Edizione nazionale delle opere di Ugo Foscolo. 

. Lezioni, articoli di critica e polemica: 1809-1811. Ed. Emilio Santini. Firenze: 
Le Monnier, 1933. Vol. 7. Edizione nazionale delle opere di Ugo Foscolo. 

. Studi su Dante. Ed. Giovanni Da Pozzo. Part one. Firenze: Le Monnier, 1979. 
Vol. 9. 2 parts. Edizione nazionale delle opere di Ugo Foscolo. 

Franzero, Carlo Maria. A Life in Exile: Ugo Foscolo in London, 1816-1827. London: 
W.H. Allen, 1977. 

Gaudenzi, Cosetta. “Appropriations of Dante: XVIII and Early XIX Century Translations 
of the Divine Comedy in Great Britain.” Diss. U of Texas at Austin, 2000. [Ann 
Arbor: UMI, 2000. 9983212.] 








Exile, Translation, and Return: Ugo Foscolo in England 233 


King, Robert Wylie. The Translator of Dante: The Life, Work and Friendship of Henry 
Francis Cary (1772-1844). London: Martin Secker, 1925. 

Kuhiwzczak, Piotr. “Slav Perceptions of English Romanticism.” Translating Literature. 
Ed. Susan Bassnett. Cambridge: D. S. Brewer, 1997. 80-94. 

Lindon, John. “Foscolo as a Literary Critic.” Reflexivity: Critical Themes in the Italian 
Cultural Tradition. Ed. Prue Shaw and John Took. Ravenna: Longo, 2000. 145-59. 

Marshall, Roderick. Jtaly in English Literature: 1755-1815. Origins of the Romantic 
Interest in Italy. New York: Columbia UP, 1943. 

O’Neill, Tom. “Foscolo and Dante.” Dante Comparisons: Comparative Studies of Dante 
and Montale, Foscolo, Tasso, Chaucer, Petrarch, Propertius and Catullus. Ed. Eric 
Haywood and Barry Jones. Dublin: Irish Academic Press, 1985. 109-35. 

Peters, John Durham. “Exile, Nomadism, and Diaspora: The Stakes of Mobility in the 
Western Canon.” Home, Exile, Homeland: Film, Media, and the Politics of Space. 
Ed. Hamid Naficy. New York: Routledge, 1999. 17-41. 

Puppo, Mario. “Foscolo e i romantici.” // romanticismo. Atti del sesto congresso 
dell’associazione internazionale per gli studi di lingua e letteratura italiana, 
Budapest e Venezia 10-11, 1967. Ed. Vittore Branca and Tibor Kardos. Budapest: 
Akademiai Klado, 1968. 137-61. 

Redding, Cyrus. Fifty Years’ Recollections, Literary and Personal, with Observations on 
Men and Things. 3 vols. London: Charles J. Skeet, 1858. 

Tobler, Rudolf. “Lettres inédites de Ugo Foscolo 4 Hudson Gurney.” Giornale storico 
della letteratura italiana 39 (1902): 54-102. 

Toynbee, Paget. Dante in English Literature: From Chaucer to Cary. 2 vols. London: 
Methuen, 1909. 

Valesio, Paolo. “Esilio e traduzione: transpoesia.” L’esilio come certezza. Ed. Andrea 
Ciccarelli and Paolo A. Giordano. West Lafayette: Bordighera, 1998. 284-307. 
Vincent, Eric Reginald Pearce. Byron, Hobhouse, and Foscolo: New Documents in the 

History of Collaboration. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1949. 
Williams, Raymond. Culture and Society. 1958. London: The Hogarth Press, 1992. 








Aida Audeh 
Images of Dante’s Exile in 19th-Century France 


While it is commonly and correctly asserted that Dante was a favorite subject of 
artists of the Romantic movement, it is however not accurate to claim that the 
interest in Dante began and ended there. Rather, investigation reveals that Dante 
was subject of art works, ranging from small “troubadour” paintings to large 
academic “machines,” and sculpture, from kitsch to monumental, throughout the 
19th and early 20th centuries in France. In fact, somewhere in the 19th century a 
perceptual shift occurred that put Dante in that rare position of subject 
transcending all schools and genres, an honor in a sense traditionally reserved 
for subjects of mythology, history, or religion. Investigation into the records of 
state-sponsored Salon exhibitions in Paris from 1800 to 1930 reveals that Dante 
as subject (either based on his literary works, his biography, or legend) appeared 
at least 294 times in the works of artists well-known and obscure, avant-garde 
and academic, republican and ultra-montane.' 

The earliest, most popular subjects, as would be expected, were those derived 
from the vividly described episodes of the /nferno, particularly those of Paolo 
and Francesca and Ugolino, but also including those of Farinata in the flames, 
the Suicides, Dante and the three beasts, Thais “dans la merde,” etc. As the 
century continued, the subjects depicted by artists expanded to include episodes 
drawn from Purgatorio, Paradiso, and the Vita nuova, marked by the 
appearance at the annual salon exhibitions of several Mathildas, Pias and, of 
course, Beatrices. The popularity of Dante as subject for art in France reached 
well into the 20th century. Still inspiring creative arts into the 1920s and 1930s, 
representation of Dante’s life and works expanded particularly in the medium of 
sculpture in the wake of Rodin’s Gates of Hell, the monumental doors of bronze 
bas-relief illustrating Dante’s Divine Comedy commissioned by the French state 
in 1880 for a proposed (but never built) museum of the decorative arts. 

In the midst of this great interest in Dante in French arts and letters in the 
19th century, a sub-genre developed based on biographical legend surrounding 


' In my dissertation I investigate in depth the integral relationship between Rodin’s Gates 
of Hell and Dante’s Divine Comedy, with a chapter on Dante as subject of painting and 
sculpture in 19th-century France (Audeh, Rodin’s Gates of Hell and Dante’s Divine 
Comedy). See also my article “Rodin’s Gates of Hell: Sculptural Illustration of Dante’s 
Divine Comedy.” I have found 294 works of art based on Dante’s writings, biography, or 
legend in the salon livrets from 1800 to 1930. This number is not final, since not all 
volumes of the livrets were available for consultation at the time I did my research at the 
Bibliothéque Jacques Doucet in Paris. However, this number, surprisingly large in itself, 
indicates the great popularity of Dante as subject of salon works. 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


236 Aida Audeh 


the period of Dante’s exile. Investigation into this sub-genre reveals a complex 
interchange of historical fact, anecdote, fancy, and outright error, in sum 
producing imagery and importance for Dante’s exile unique to France. 
Manifestation in French literature of interest in Dante’s exile is so extensive as 
to necessitate full-length study, and its role in the formation of painting, 
sculpture and popular imagery of Dante is vital. References to Dante’s exile 
appear in works of fiction and in biography, as well as in commentary 
accompanying French translations of the poet’s works. What is significant and 
striking is French literature’s reformulation and embellishment of history or 
biography concerning Dante’s exile and its effect on interpretations in French 
art. 

Straightforward representation of Dante’s exile focuses on anecdotes with 
roots in Boccaccio’s Vita di Dante, the most popular in French art being the 
episode of Dante’s encounter with the women in Verona summarized by the 
question, “Isn’t that the man who went to Hell and back?" Less obvious and of 
greater variety are works of art based on the legend, also drawn from Boccaccio 
and subsequent biographers, that Dante traveled to Paris during his exile and 
debated philosophy at the University of Paris. In this regard, the lack of definite 
historical facts permitted extensive invention on the part of French artists and 
writers who wished to locate Dante within the walls of the medieval city. More 
fanciful yet are those works that create for the wandering Dante a space in a 
utopian pantheon of poets and philosophers, ancient and modern, where Dante 
keeps company with the likes of Poussin, Racine, and Victor Hugo in a 
particularly French vision of an artist’s Paradise. 

While the word “exile” implies exclusion, physically or mentally, from a 
space of inherent or natural belonging, what is significant about manifestations 
of Dante’s exile in French art and literature of the 19th century is, in my view, 
the French construction of what I would like to call the “other side” of exile. For 
Boccaccio, Dante’s exile from Florence, which is wont to “malvagi e perversi 
uomini a’ luoghi eccelsi e a’ sommi offici e guiderdoni elevare, e li buoni 
scacciare, deprimere e abbassare” (Vita di Dante 3)° (“evil and perverse men [to 
being] raised to high places [...] and good men [to being] banished, depreciated, 
and debased” Life of Dante 10),’ was the mark of and reward for Dante’s 
superiority. Boccaccio’s presentation of Dante as a misunderstood and 
unappreciated genius is echoed in French commentary of the 19th century and 
provides then the foundation for the counter-assertion of Dante’s acceptance 
elsewhere, among the properly enlightened: the French. Thus, French art and 
literature of the 19th century uses the opportunity presented by Dante’s 


? All quotations from Boccaccio’s life of Dante are from Vita di Dante e difesa della 
poesia, hereafter indicated as Vita di Dante. 

3 All translations of Boccaccio’s Vita di Dante are from James Robinson Smith’s “Life of 
Dante.” 





Images of Dante’s Exile in 1 9"-Century France 237 


historical situation of exile to appropriate him and to give him a new space of 
belonging within the ranks of France’s greatest creators and thinkers. In this 
way, I would like to demonstrate, French art and literature of the 19th century 
reformulated biography and myth in order to assert with conviction that Dante’s 
genius was recognized in Paris, even if it was not in his beloved Florence, and 
that he in fact found his authentic home there on the left bank of the Seine. 


Dante in Verona 

Boccaccio writes of the following incident, worth quoting in its entirety, which 
he claims occurred during Dante’s stay in the city of Verona during his long 
exile from Florence: 


[...] il colore era bruno, e i capellii e la barba spessi, neri e crespi, e sempre nella faccia 
malinconico e pensoso. Per la qual cosa avvenne un giorno in Verona (essendo gia 
divulgata pertutto la fama delle sue opere, e massimamente quella parte della sua 
Comedia, |a quale egli intitola Inferno, ed esso conosciuto da molti e uomini e donne) 
che, passando egli davanti a una porta dove pit donne sedevano, una di quelle 
pianamente, non pero tanto che bene da lui e da chi con lui era non fossse udita, disse 
all’altre donne: — Vedete colui che va nell’inferno, e torna quando gli piace, e qua su 
reca novelle di coloro che la git’ sono? — Alla quale una dell’altre rispose 
semplicemente: — In verita tu déi dir vero: non vedi tu com’egli ha la barba crespa e il 
color bruno per lo caldo e per lo fummo che é 1a git? — Le quali parole udendo egli dir 
dietro a sé, e conoscendo che da pura credenza delle donne venivano, piacendogli, e quasi 
contento ch’esse in cotale opinione fossero, sorridendo alquanto, passd avanti. 
(Boccaccio, Vita di Dante 30) 


(His complexion was dark, his hair and beard thick, black, and curled, and his expression 
every melancholy and thoughtful. And thus it chanced one day in Verona, when the fame 
of his works had spread everywhere, particularly that part of his Commedia entitled the 
Inferno, and when he was known by sight to many, both men and women, that, as he was 
passing before a doorway where sat a group of women, one of them softly said to the 
others, — but not so softly but that she was distinctly heard by Dante and such as 
accompanied him — “Do you see the man who goes down into hell and returns when he 
pleases, and brings back tidings of them that are below?” To which one of the others 
naively answered, “You must indeed say true. Do you not see how his beard is crisped, 
and his color darkened, by the heat and smoke down there?” Hearing these words spoken 
behind him, and knowing that they came from the innocent belief of the women, he was 
pleased, and smiling a little as if content that they should hold such an opinion, he passed 


on.) 
(Boccaccio, Life of Dante 42-43) 


In this extremely significant passage Boccaccio engraves for posterity the image 
of the character and persona of Dante as a melancholic philosopher/poet. The 
image of Dante’s character created by Boccaccio in this passage is linked 
explicitly with the physical description of the poet as darkly brooding and 


238 Aida Audeh 


pensive, establishing posthumously for Dante an aura of charisma and mystery 
that continues to surround his name and works to this day. It is this created aura, 
Boccaccio suggests in this passage, which affects the credulous women and 
causes them to believe in the veracity of Dante’s experiences in Hell and 
beyond. Dante is therefore understandably “pleased” by the reaction of the 
women. Dante’s pleasure is the result of his awareness of the existence and 
power of his artistic persona and the establishment of the belief that he has been 
able to transcend the laws of materiality and mortality, thereby linking him with 
Orpheus, Aeneas, and of course Christ. Thus, Dante passes on, smiling “as if 
content,” taking no offense at the gossipy comments of the women, according to 
Boccaccio’s biographical mythology of the poet’s life and character. 

The incident of Dante and the women of Verona, so integral to the image of 
Dante’s physical and psychological character as established by Boccaccio, was 
of great interest to artists in France in the 19th century, inspiring at least seven 
paintings between the years 1839 and 1880.’ The first of the seven, a work by 
artist Jules Boilly (b. 1796, d. 1874) titled Le Dante a Vérone exhibited at the 
Paris Salon of 1839, referenced directly in the accompanying “livret” (exhibition 
catalogue) Boccaccio’s text in French: 


#198 - Le Dante a Vérone. “Pendant le séjour du Dante a Vérone, cette croyance 
singuliére s’y était établie, qu’il avait réellement fait en personne le voyage de |’Enfer, 
dont il donne la description dans la Ire partie de son poéme; tout, chez I’illustre exilé, 
tendait a confirmer cette opinion dans |’esprit des gens crédules.” (Boccace, Vie du 
Dante) 

(#198 - Dante in Verona. “During Dante’s stay in Verona the strange belief established 
itself that he had truly made in person the journey from Hell which he had described in 
the first part of his poem; everything about the illustrious exile tended to confirm this 
opinion in the minds of credulous people.” (Boccaccio. Life of Dante) 


The quotation given by Boilly for the livret emphasizes the dominant intent of 
Boccaccio’s tale; that is, to establish the myth sustaining the authenticity of 
Dante’s experience in Hell. Boilly is not bothered to provide the exact 
conversation of the women as recounted by Boccaccio, being concerned rather 


* Paintings inspired by the incident of Dante and the women of Verona are the following, 
listed chronologically: Jules Boilly, Le Dante a Vérone, Salon of 1839; Félix-Joseph 
Barrias, Dante Alighieri, Salon of 1853; Edouard Jean Hamman, Je Dante a Ravenne, 
Salon of 1859; Jean-Léon Géréme, Dante at Ravenna, ca. 1870; Pierre-Charles Comte, 
Le Dante, Salon of 1878; Antonio Cotti, Le Dante a Vérone, Salon of 1879; Paul-Emile 
Sautai, Dante exilé, Salon of 1880. 

: Explication des ouvrages exposés au Musée Royal le ler mars 1839 (Paris: Vinchon, 
1839): 25. 








Images of Dante’s Exile in 19""-Century France 239 


with the mythology surrounding Dante’s persona as artist.° 

While Boilly remained true to Boccaccio’s meaning, his 1839 painting was 
for several years an isolated expression of Dante’s important encounter in 
Verona. It would be fourteen years in fact before the next work based on this 
legend would appear in a Paris exhibition: Félix-Joseph Barrias’s (b. 1822, d. 
1907) painting Dante Alighieri shown at the Salon of 1853.’ Barrias’s work, 
which coincided with the first years of Louis-Napoleon’s Second Empire and 
the exile of Victor Hugo for his harsh criticism of the French Emperor, marked 
an unusual and telling divergence from the original story of Dante and the 
women of Verona. The painting itself has been lost, but the description in the 
salon livret of 1853 reveals the artist’s representation of an alternate version of 
Boccaccio’s Verona legend: 


#51 - Dante Alighieri. “Les petits enfants, qui, le jour, dans Ravenne,/ Le voyaient 
traverser quelque place lointaine,/ Disaient, en contemplant son front livide et vert:/ 
Voila, voila, celui qui revient de l’Enfer.” (Auguste Barbier)® 

(#51 - Dante Alighieri. “The little children who, one day, in Ravenna,/ Saw him crossing 
someplace nearby,/ Said, considering his face livid and green:/ There, there, he who has 
come back from Hell.” (Auguste Barbier) 


The setting of the incident in Ravenna rather than Verona is not typographical 
error or mistake, but the result of Barrias’s use of Auguste Barbier’s (b. 1805, d. 
1882) poem of 1832, titled “Dante,” as his source rather than Boccaccio.” 


° In addition to Boilly’s work, six others, with Dante as subject, appeared at the Salon of 
1839: Emile Lessore’s Le comte Ugolin (painting); Augustin Long’s Ugolin, comte de la 
Gherardesca (painting); Paul Mercuri’s La Pia, personnification de 1|'Espérance 
(painting); Francesco Podesti’s Le Giotto composant sous I’inspiration du Dante 
(painting); Augustin Regis’s Le Dante dans une villa de Guido Novello (painting); and 
Louis Rochet’s Le comte Ugolin et ses enfants enfermés dans la tour Gualandi, a Pise 
(sculpture in plaster). 

7 Also shown at the Salon of 1853 were medallions in bronze of Dante and Virgil by the 
sculptor Auguste Préault. Barrias exhibited another painting featuring Dante, Les Pélerins 
se rendant 4 Rome pour le jubilé de l’an 1300 (likely referring to Vita nuova 40), at the 
Exposition Universelle of 1855 in Paris. 

® Explication des ouvrages exposés aux menus-plaisirs le 15 mai 1853 (Paris:Vinchon, 
1853): 44. 

° Here is the full text of the poem by Auguste Barbier, titled “Dante” (51-53): 

DANTE, vieux Gibelin! quand je vois en passant 

Le platre blanc et mat de ce masque puissant 

Que I’art nous a laissé de ta divine téte, 

Je ne puis m’empécher de frémir, 6 poéte! 

Tant la main du génie et celle de malheur 

Ont imprimé sur toi le sceau de la douleur. 

Sous |’étroit chaperon qui presse tes oreilles, 


240 Aida Audeh 


Barbier’s poem, written and published during the aftermath of the 1830 July 
Revolution, takes artistic license with Boccaccio’s legend and creates an image 
of Dante resonant with the aspirations of Romantic political fervor associated 
with the memory of the 1789 popular uprisings. The ascendance of Louis 
Napoleon to power was marked as well by repeated reference to the great deeds 
of Bonaparte, but the imperial coup of 1852 signaled again the death of 
Republican aspirations. Barbier’s 1832 poem then takes on added significance 
twnty-one years later as the source for Barrias’s painting. 

In its Romantic transformation of legend and longing for the perceived 


Est-ce le pli des ans ou le sillon des veilles 

Qui traverse ton front si laborieusement? 

Est-ce au champ de I’exil, dans l’avilissement, 
Que ta bouche s’est closé a force de maudire? 
Ta derniére pensée est-elle en ce sourire 

Que la mort sur ta lévre a cloué de ses mains? 
Est-ce un ris de pitié sur les pauvres humains? 
Ah! le mépris va bien a la bouche de Dante, 
Car il regut le jour dans une ville ardente, 

Et le pavé natal fut un champ de graviers 

Qui déchira longtemps la plante de ses pieds. 
Dante vit, comme nous, les passions humaines 
Rouler autour de lui leurs fortunes soudaines; 

II vit les citoyens s’égorger en plein jour, 

Les partis écrasés renaitre tour a tour; 

II vit sur les bichers s’allumer les victimes; 

I] vit pendant trente ans passer des flots de crimes, 
Et le mot de patrie a tous les vents jeté, 

Sans profit pour le peuple et pour la liberté. 

O Dante Alighieri, poéte de Florence, 

Je comprends aujourd’hui ta mortelle souffrance; 
Amant de Béatrice, a |’exil condamné, 

Je comprends ton oeil cave et ton front décharné, 
Le dégoit qui te prit des choses de ce monde, 
Ce mal de coeur sans fin, cette haine profonde 
Qui, te faisant atroce en te fouettant |’ humeur, 
Inondérent de bile et ta plume et ton coeur. 
Aussi, d’aprés les moeurs de ta ville natale, 
Artiste, tu peignis une toile fatale, 

Et tu fis le tableau de sa perversité 

Avec tant d’énergie et tant de vérité, 

Que les petits enfants qui le jour, dans Ravenne, 
Te voyaient traverser quelque place lointaine, 
Disaient en contemplant ton front livide et vert: 
‘Voila, voila celui qui revient de l’enfer!’ 


Images of Dante’s Exile in 1 9""-Century France 24] 


glories of 1789, Barbier’s poem is typical of its period. In painting, the 
Romantic association of the two revolutions is best represented by Eugéne 
Delacroix’s well-known and heroic Liberty Leading the People of 1830: a work 
considered so potentially inflammatory of popular sentiment towards further 
violence that Louis Philippe had it removed from view after its state purchase. In 
Romantic poetry the incitement towards repetition of the events of 1789 found 
expression in the creation of parallels between dreams of liberty and 
melancholic realization of the death of these dreams represented by the exiled 
Napoleon. Dante was appropriated within these Romantic mythologies as well at 
this time, for he was represented in poetry and painting primarily as a political 
exile, persecuted and melancholic, darkly driven by his unfulfilled dreams of 
liberty and nationalism. 

As such, Dante in Barrias’s painting, as reflected by a caricature of the work 
published the year of its exhibition (Figure 1), is no longer the self-satisfied poet 
of Boccaccio’s Verona legend, but an embittered and failed revolutionary in the 
Romantic vein, mocked and tormented by village children. 

Barbier’s poem was also given as the source of Edouard Hamman’s (b. 1817, 
d. 1888) painting, Dante a Ravenne, exhibited at the salon of 1859 and described 
in the livret with only the line “Voila, voila celui qui revient de l’Enfer.”'® The 
brevity of the livret entry reveals that the legend of Dante’s encounter with the 
women of Verona/Ravenna was so well-known as to require no further 
explanation than Barbier’s famous line. 

An 1880 painting titled simply Dante exilé, shown at the salon of that year by 
Paul Emile Sautai (b. 1842, d. 1901), presented, according to one reviewer, 
Dante as the “poéte délaissé, abandonné, proscrit, presque inconnu chez ses 
propres compatriotes” (“the poet left behind, abandoned, exiled, nearly unknown 
by his own compatriots”), indicating that it was Barbier’s version of events and 
not Boccaccio’s that guided the artist.'' A surviving caricature of Sautai’s 
painting makes the association with Barbier more explicit (Figure 2). Under the 
image of the seated and mocked Dante is the caption, “Ils cherchent a lui faire 
faire la risette, mais ils n’y parviendront jamais” (“They are trying to make him 


'° Explication des ouvrages exposés au Palais des Champs Elysées le 15 avril 1859, 
(Paris, 1859): 170. Six other works with Dante as subject or source were exhibited at the 
Salon of 1859: Antonio Bottinelli’s La Francesca da Rimini (sculpted bust in marble); 
Alfred Chéron’s Dante (statue in plaster); Camille Corot’s Dante et Virgile; paysage 
(painting); Auguste Feyen-Perrin’s Les Damneés (painting); Joseph Gaye’s Frangoise de 
Rimini (miniature painting); and Dominique-Antoine Magaud’s Dante, conduit par 
Virgile, arrive au sommet du Purgatoire et aper¢oit le Paradis (painting). 

'' Dumas, Le Salon: Journal de |’Eposition Annuelle des Beaux-Arts (Paris, 1880): 110. 
Also exhibited at the Salon of 1880 were Jean-Paul Aubé’s Dante Alighieri (sculpture in 
bronze); Edouard Blanchard’s Francoise de Rimini (painting); and Gustave Courtois’s 
Dante et Virgile aux enfers; cercle des traitres a la patrie (painting). 


242 Aida Audeh 


give a little smile, but they will never succeed”). This strange quote refers 
obliquely to Barbier’s short poem of 1833, “Michel-Ange,” which includes the 
following lines: 


Que ton visage est triste et ton front amaigri, 

Sublime Michel-Ange, 6 vieux tailleur de pierre! 

Nulle larme jamais n’a mouillé ta paupiére: 

Comme Dante, on dirait que tu n’as jamais ri.' 
(Barbier, “Michel-Ange” 1-4) 

(Your face is sad and your brow thinned, 

Sublime Michel-Ange, o old carver of stone! 

No tear has ever moistened your eyelid: 

Like Dante, one would say that you have never laughed.) 


2 


The political overtones of Barrias’s 1853 work based on Barbier’s “Dante” seem 
to have dissipated, as if overtaken, by the year 1880, by the interest in the 
venerable Romantic topos of the inherent relation of genius, artistic creativity, 
and melancholy often applied in 19th-century French arts and letters to Dante 
and Michelangelo in tandem. Boccaccio’s original intent, the creation of a well- 
known and confident Dante, amused by the naive belief of the women of 
Verona, has been left quite far behind here in the wake of French Romanticism. 
Dante in Paris 

If the 1830s marked the appearance of the first salon paintings depicting Dante 
as exile, they were also the occasion of the emergence, in French culture, of the 
poet as a sort of naturalized citizen of Paris. Based once again on Boccaccio’s 
Vita di Dante, artists and writers took broad license with the biographical legend 
of Dante’s visit to Paris and disputation of theology at the Sorbonne. Boccaccio 
writes: 


'? Here is the full text of Barbier’s “Michel-Ange” (Jambes et Poémes 127-28): 
Que ton visage est triste et ton front amaigri, 
Sublime Michel-Ange, 6 vieux tailleur de pierre! 
Nulle larme jamais n’a mouillé ta paupiére; 
Comme Dante, on dirait que tu n’as jamais ri. 
Hélas! d’un lait trop fort la Muse t’a nourri, 

L’art fut ton seul amour et prit ta vie entiére; 
Soixante ans tu courus une triple carriére 

Sans reposer ton coeur sur un coeur attendri. 
Pauvre Buonarotti! ton seul bonheur au monde 
Fut d’imprimer au marbre une grandeur profonde, 
Et, puissant comme Dieu, d’effrayer comme Lui: 
Aussi, quand tu parvins a ta saison derniére, 
Vieux lion fatigué, sous ta blanche criniére, 

Tu mourus longuement plein de gloire et d’ennui. 





Images of Dante’s Exile in 19""-Century France 243 


Fu ancora questo poeta di maravigliosa capacita e di memoria fermissima e di perspicace 
intelletto, intanto che, essendo egli a Parigi, e quivi sostenendo in una disputazione de 
quolibet che nelle scuole della teologia si facea, quattordici quistioni da diversi valenti 
uomini e di diverse materie, con gli loro argomenti pro e contra fatti dagli opponenti, 
senza mettere in mezzo raccolse, e ordinatamente, come poste erano state, recitd; quelle 
poi, seguendo quello medesimo ordine, sottilmente solvendo e rispondendo agli 
argomenti contrari. La qual cosa quasi miracolo da tutti i circustanti fu reputata. 

(Boccaccio, Vita di Dante 32) 
(Moreover this poet possessed marvelous capacity, a most retentive memory, and a keen 
intellect. Indeed, when he was at Paris, in a disputation de quolibet held there in the 
schools of theology, wherein fourteen different theses were being maintained by various 
able men on diverse subjects, Dante without a break gathered all the theses together in 
their sequence, with the arguments pro and con that were advanced by his opponents, and 
then, following the same order, recited them, subtly solved them, and refuted the counter- 
arguments — a feat that was reputed all but a miracle by them that stood by.) 

(Boccaccio, Life of Dante 45) 


Boccaccio’s account of Dante’s life is no more specific as to the poet’s presence 
in France, simply implying participation in a debate at the Sorbonne. From this 
legend, as well as from the appearance in Paradiso X of Siger de Brabant (a 
professor in Paris in Aquinas’s time who expounded the philosophy of Averroes 
and was charged with heresy), derived works of art and literature in 19th- 
century France that attempted to locate Dante very specifically in relation to 
particular monuments of medieval Paris.'° 

One of the earliest manifestations of this appropriation of Dante by way of 
expansion of the legend recounted by Boccaccio and implied by the presence of 
Siger de Brabant in Paradiso, is Honoré de Balzac’s (b. 1799, d. 1850) “Les 
Proscrits” (“The Exiles”), written in 1831 and ultimately incorporated within the 
volumes of the Comédie humaine. Appearing as a nameless and mysterious old 
man in the shadow of Notre Dame around 1308, Balzac’s Dante remains 
unidentified for the reader until the story’s final lines, in spite of the narrative’s 
broad hints drawn from Boccaccio’s well-known physical description of the 
poet: 


Quoique ses yeux fussent assez profondément enfoncés sous les grands arceaux dessinés 
par ses sourcils, ils étaient comme ceux d’un milan enchassés dans des paupieéres si larges 
et bordés d’un cercle noir si vivement marqué sur le haut de sa joue, que leurs globes 
semblaient étre en saillie. [...] Le nez tombait droit et se prolongeait de telle sorte que les 
narines semblaient le retenir. [...] Quoique fit de taille moyenne, il paraissait grand [...]. 

(Balzac, Les Proscriits 10: 329-30) 


'3 Dante writes in Paradiso 10: 133-38: “Questi onde a me ritorna il tuo riguardo,/ é ’! 
lume d’uno spirto che ’n pensieri / gravi a morir li parve venir tardo:/ essa é la luce 
etterna di Sigieri,/ che, leggendo nel vico delli strami,/ sillogizzo invidiosi veri." 


244 Aida Audeh 


(Though his eyes were somewhat deeply shaded by the wide sockets fringed with long 
eyebrows, they were set, like a kite’s eyes, in eyelids so broad, and bordered by so dark a 
circle sharply defined on his cheek, that they seemed rather to be prominent. [...] The 
nose, which was narrow and aquiline, was so long that it seemed to hang on by the 
nostrils. [...] Though of no more than middle height, he appeared tall [...].) 

(Balzac, The Exiles 25: 324-26) 


More obviously signaling Dante’s identity, Balzac has the character of the 
innkeeper observe that the stranger’s dark skin “a été cuite et halée par le feu de 
lenfer’’ (“Proscrits,” La Comédie Humaine 10: 326) (“has been scorched and tanned 
by hell-fires” “Exiles” The Human Comedy 25: 321). 

Balzac’s Dante mourns his exile and befriends a fellow-lodger who 
attempts suicide because of his estrangement from a mother who cannot 
acknowledge him. Midway through the story, Dante and the suicidal lodger 
attend one of Siger’s lectures, an historical impossibility, since Siger was dead 
well before 1300. Balzac’s Siger invites Dante to occupy a position alongside 
him on the makeshift dais because he recognizes the Florentine to be “le héros 
d’une admirable thése récemment soutenue a la Sorbonne” (“Les Proscrits” 10: 
336) (“the orator of a fine thesis admirably argued not long since at the 
Sorbonne” “Exiles” 25: 333). Siger later entreats Dante, whose identity is as yet 
unknown to the reader, to mention him in his writing, saying “[...] ce sera me 
donne Il’immortalité humaine” (“Proscrits” 10: 341; "It would give me 
immortality, humanly speaking” “Exiles” 25: 340): a play on Dante’s dialogue 
with Brunetto Latini (especially /nf. 15: 85). In the end of Balzac’s fanciful 
account, Dante’s identity is revealed by a soldier, who informs the poet that his 
exile from Florence has been lifted, whereupon Dante departs Paris swearing 
vengeance on his enemies: 


"A Florence! a Florence! O ma Florence!” cria vivement Dante Alighieri qui se dressa 
sur ses pieds, regarda dans les airs, crut voir I’Italie, et devint gigantesque. [...] Pour la 
premiére, pour la seule fois peut-étre, la sombre et terrible figure de Dante respira une 
joie; ses yeux et son front exprimaient les peintures de bonheur qu’il a si magnifiquement 
prodiguées dans son Paradis. Il lui semblait peut-étre entendre la voix de Béatrix. [...] 
“Partons!” s’écria-t-il d’une voix tonnante. “Mort aux Guelfes!" 
(Balzac, Les Proscrits 10: 352) 
(“To Florence! To Florence! Ah, my Florence!” cried Dante Alighieri, drawing himself 
up, and gazing into the distance. In fancy he saw Italy; he was gigantic. [...] For the first 
time, perhaps for the only time in his life, Dante’s gloomy and solemn features wore a 
look of joy; his eyes and brow expressed the happiness he has depicted so lavishly in his 
vision of Paradise. He thought perhaps that he heard the voice of Beatrice. [...] “Come 
away!” he cried in a voice of thunder. “Death to the Guelphs!") 
(Balzac, The Exiles 25: 353-54) 


For Balzac, Dante as character in “Les Proscrits” functions less as protagonist 
than as an anchor for his descriptions of medieval Paris and its monuments. 





Images of Dante’s Exile in 19"-Century France 245 


Dante’s supposed wanderings on the left bank allow Balzac to describe in 
seemingly historically accurate detail the city and its structures around 1308: 


Les vitraux de ces deux chambres donnaient sur la riviére. Par l’une, vous n’eussiez pu 
voir que les rives de la Seine et les trois iles désertes dont les deux premiéres ont été 
réunies plus tard et forment l’ile Saint-Louis aujourd’hui, la troisiéme était l’ile Louviers. 
Par l’autre, vous auriez apercu a travers une échappée du port Saint-Landry, le quartier de 
la gréve, le pont Notre-Dame avec ses maisons, les hautes tours du Louvre récemment 
baties par Philippe-Auguste, et qui dominaient ce Paris chétif et pauvre, lequel suggére a 
l’imagination des poétes modernes tant de fausses merveilles. [...] Le Terrain, la Seine, 
le Port, la maison étaient encadrés a |’ouest par |’immense basilique de Notre-Dame, qui 
projetait au gré du soleil son ombre froide sur cette terre. Alors comme aujourd’ hui, Paris 
n’avait pas de lieu plus solitaire, de paysage plus solennel ni plus mélancolique. 
(Balzac, Les Proscrits 10: 323-24) 
(The windows of those two rooms [where Dante and the lodger lived] looked out on the 
river. From one you could only see the shores of the Seine, and the three barren islands, 
of which two were subsequently joined together to form the Ile Saint-Louis; the third was 
the Ile de Louviers. From the other could be seen, down a vista of the Port-Saint-Landry, 
the buildings on the Gréve, the Bridge of Notre-Dame, with its houses, and the tall towers 
of the Louvre, but lately built by Philippe-Auguste to overlook the then poor and squalid 
town of Paris, which suggests so many imaginary marvels to the fancy of modern 
romancers. [...] The Eyot, the Seine, the landing-place, the house, were all overshadowed 
on the west by the huge basilica of Notre-Dame casting its cold gloom over the whole 
plot as the sun moved. Then, as now, there was not in all Paris a more deserted spot, a 
more solemn or more melancholy prospect.) 
(Balzac, The Exiles 25: 316-17) 


Dante as character is simply inserted into the historic context of the city. Also, 
Dante’s visit to the rue du Fouarre to hear Siger’s lecture provides Balzac the 
opportunity to recapitulate, very loosely, what he took to be Siger’s theology. As 
Michael Pitwood has demonstrated in his study of Dante and the French 
Romantics, Balzac’s knowledge of Siger was scant at best, and his account of 
Siger’s views owes more to Swedenborg than to Siger (Pitwood 255-56). 

We might well wonder what Balzac’s purpose was in choosing to build his 
story around Dante. Boccaccio’s discussion of Dante’s quest for knowledge in 
all the great centers of learning in medieval Europe perhaps provides one reason: 


Egli li primi inizi, si come di sopra é dichiarato, prese nella propia patria, e di quella, si 
come a luogo pit fertile di tal cibo, n’andd a Bologna; e gia vicino alla sua vecchiezza 
n’ando a Parigi, dove, con tanta gloria di sé, disputando, pit volte mostrd l’altezza del 
suo ingegno, che ancora, narrandosi, se ne maravigliano gli uditori. E di tanti e si fatti 
studi non ingiustamente merit altissimi titoli: percioché alcuni il chiamarono sempre 
“poeta”, altri “filosofo” e molti “teologo”, mentre visse. 

(Boccaccio, Vita di Dante 9) 
(The first rudiments of knowledge [...] he received in his native city. Thence he went to 
Bologna, as to a place richer in such food. And, when verging on old age, he went to 


246 Aida Audeh 


Paris, where in many disputations he displayed the loftiness of his genius with so great 
glory to himself that his auditors still marvel when they speak thereof. For studies so 
many and so excellent he deservedly won the highest titles, and while he lived some ever 
called him poet, other philosopher, and many theologian.) 

(Boccaccio, Life of Dante 17) 


Paris’s importance in medieval Europe rested upon the creation of the Collége 
de Quatre Nations, the early Sorbonne, which then ranked the city among those 
other centers of erudition: Bologna, Oxford, Valencia, etc. Boccaccio seeks to 
establish Dante’s superior intellectual capabilities by locating him at the known 
world’s earliest universities and implies that the capstone of Dante’s education 
was indeed his visit to Paris, where his genius is finally proved and celebrated. 
Balzac, in a sort of inversion of Boccaccio’s intent, attempts to establish the 
importance of Paris as a center of culture by locating Dante, the archetypal 
medieval figure in the mind of French Romantics, at the heart of the medieval 
city. 

Balzac, like many other writers of the romantic period in France, embraced a 
somewhat fantastical image of the Middle Ages and sought frequently in works 
of poetry and prose to reconstruct what they imagined to be medieval France, 
Victor Hugo’s Notre Dame de Paris being probably the best example of this 
trend. Balzac’s short story seems to fit nicely within this larger development, 
although it marks the particular use of Dante as a Romantic figure in terms 
similar to Barbier’s poem. In short, there were no authors writing in French 
during the Middle Ages of equivalent stature for Balzac to use in this way. Thus, 
if one wants to write about Paris in the Middle Ages, the only figure of universal 
renown available for use in association with the university and the churches of 
the left bank is Dante. 

Biographies of Dante appearing in 19th-century France elaborate quite freely 
on Boccaccio’s brief statements as to the poet’s stay in Paris, becoming integral 
to the French concept of Dante as exile. In fact, it does not appear that 
Boccaccio’s Vita di Dante was available in French translation until the early 
20th century, making it likely that knowledge of legends in the Vita were spread 
by other means.'* Few artists and writers in 19th-century France were 
sufficiently familiar with Italian to have read Boccaccio’s biography of Dante in 
the original, making it likely that legends concerning Dante’s life were 
transmitted and repeated in French biographies of the poet with elaborations 
based on misinterpretations of Boccaccio’s Italian, on other sources, or perhaps 


'* For example, Balbo’s Dante was translated into French by the Comtesse de Lalaing 
and published in 1844-1846 (Brussels: Hayez). The two-volume text includes a lengthy 
chapter claiming the authenticity of the legend of Dante’s visit to Paris. The first full- 
length translation into French of Boccaccio’s Vita di Dante appears to have been Vie de 
Dante par Jean Boccace (Paris: Tallandier, 1929), with translation by Gauthiez. 





Images of Dante’s Exile in 1 9""-Century France 247 


on outright invention to suit French sensibilities of the period. 

In addition to fictional accounts such as Balzac’s, Dante is located in Paris 
mostly by means of sculpture, but also through monumental paintings, the 
popular press, and even through street names. One finds in Paris’s 5th 
arrondissment the rue Dante, created in the 19th century, which connects the 
rue du Fouarre (the reputed location of Siger’s lectures on the “street of straw’’) 
to the boulevard St. Germain, in the heart of the Latin Quarter. According even 
to current histories of the streets of Paris, the rue Dante was so-named after “le 
grand poéte italien [...], ancien habitant du quartier” (Coussillan 1: 410). Thus, 
Dante’s alleged presence in Paris and his fictional relationship with Siger de 
Brabant were, in the 19th century, not only endorsed but re-created, in this case 
by municipal action. 

Further, in 1880 the city of Paris commissioned a bronze statue of Dante 
(Figure 3) by the artist Jean-Paul Aubé (b. 1837, d. 1916), which stands in the 
Place Marcellin-Berthelot directly before the Collége de France, just south of the 
rue Dante.'> The journal L ’Art signaled the event this way: 


On vient d’ériger dans le petit square du Collége de France, rue des Ecoles, une statue 
représentant le grand poéte italien Dante Alighieri, oeuvre remarquable de M. Jean-Paul 
Aubé, achetée par la Ville de Paris au Salon de 1880. La statue est en bronze et nous 
montre |’auteur de la Divine Comédie dans la houppelande traditionnelle ot on se le 
représente généralement; des bribes de laurier émergent de sa coiffure. Une statue de 
Dante a d’ailleurs sa raison d’étre dans le quartier de la rue des Ecoles, car c’est 
exactement sur ce point de la rive gauche de la Seine que le grand exilé d’Italie se fixa 
pendant un certain temps, en |’an 1302, lors de la lutte mémorable des Guelfes et des 
Gibelins 

(L’Art, 1881, 25: 142). 
(We have just seen erected on the little square of the Collége de France, rue des Ecoles, a 
statue representing the great Italian poet Dante Alighieri, the remarkable work by M. 
Jean-Paul Aubé, purchased by the City of Paris at the Salon of 1880. The statue is in 
bronze and presents the author of the Divine Comedy in his traditional costume; bits of 
his laurel wreath emerging from his headdress. A statue of Dante has reason to be in the 
quartier of the rue des Ecoles, because it is exactly at this point of the left bank of the 
Seine River that Italy’s great exile stayed for some time, in the year 1302, at the time of 
the memorable battle between the Guelfs and the Ghibelins.) 


This telling quote reveals the importance of the a-historical nature of the 
biographical mythology constructed around the image of the exiled Dante in 
19th-century France. Aubé had exhibited a plaster version of his statue of Dante 
at the Salon of 1879, whereupon the city government commissioned the bronze 
for placement before the Collége de France (the bronze version was exhibited at 
the Salon of 1880), despite the fact that this institution had no relation to Dante 


'S See my article on Rodin’s Gates of Hell. 


248 Aida Audeh 


in history or legend as it had not been founded until the 16th century. The 
Collége de France, however, wished to create such a connection with Dante’s 
legend and, in competition with the Sorbonne’s longstanding series of classes on 
the poet that had begun as early as the 1820s, offered in the 1870s and 1880s 
several courses on the poet’s works. Thus the city’s placement of the statue there 
before the Collége de France in 1880 posits Dante in relation to this institution 
of the 16th century, expanding in this way the original legend of Dante’s stay in 
Paris and debate at the nascent Sorbonne. 

The rue Dante and Aubé’s statue at the Collége de France are not the only 
manifestations of the French wish to place Dante literally and figuratively in the 
heart of medieval Paris. Examination of the popular press reveals that as 
recently as the 1920s Dante’s supposed residence in Paris was still given as the 
basis for celebrations. The year 1921 specifically, the sixth centenary of Dante’s 
death, was the occasion of memorial celebrations and events not only in Italy, as 
would be expected, but in France as well. On April 30, 1921 the popular journal 
L’Illustration devoted three full pages to the discussion and imagery concerning 
the “Jubilé de Dante a l’église de Saint-Séverin,” explaining the reason for the 
celebration there particularly in terms of Dante’s supposed residence in Paris: 


Déja, mercredi dernier, un concert spirituel a été donné en |’église Saint-Séverin, sous la 
présidence de l’archevéque de Paris, et un panégyrique de Dante a été prononcé par Mgr 
Batiffol. C’est qu’une tradition séculaire veut que Dante, exilé de Florence, soit venu a 
Paris ot il a fréquenté |’Université, visité les églises, les monastéres et les cours de 
justice. On montre méme, a Saint-Séverin, un pilier oi il aimait a s’appuyer: légende, car 
ce pilier date du quinziéme siécle. S’il est exact, toutefois, que l’illustre proscrit fut 
quelque temps I’héte de I’Université parisienne, il a di plus d’une fois entendre les 
offices a Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre et a Saint-Séverin. L’église Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre, 
reconstruite au douziéme siécle par les soins de l’abbaye de Longpont, servait de siége 
aux assemblées universitaires, et Saint-Séverin, plus vaste, était vraiment, a la fin du 
treiziéme et début du quatorziéme siécle, la grande paroisse de la jeunesse étudiante. 

(Beauplan) 
(Already, last Wednesday, a spiritual concert was given in the church of Saint-Séverin, 
under the supervision of the archbishop of Paris, and a panegyric to Dante by Monseignor 
Batiffol. Secular tradition holds that Dante, exiled from Florence, had come to Paris 
where he attended the University, visited the churches, monasteries, and tribunals. One 
can show even, in Saint-Séverin, a pillar on which he liked to lean: a legend, because this 
pillar dates to the fifteenth century. If it is true, however, that the illustrious exile was for 
some time the guest of the University of Paris, he must have more than once attended 
services at Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre and at Saint-Séverin. The church of Saint-Julien-le- 
Pauvre, reconstructed in the twelfth century under the care of the abby Longpont, served 
as the seat of university assemblies, and Saint-Séverin, bigger yet, was truly, at the end of 
the thirteenth and beginning of the fourteenth centuries, the great parish of the youth of 
the universities.) 


The atmospheric illustrations accompanying the article (Figure 4 and Figure 5) 


Images of Dante’s Exile in 19""-Century France 249 


include captions reiterating the assertion of Dante’s presence at Saint-Séverin. 

Interestingly, the article in L’J/lustration mentions the nearby church of 
Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre as a site also frequented by Dante during his days at the 
university, another legend often repeated in biographies of the poet in 19th- 
century France: 


[...] souvenez-vous bien que Dante, a Paris, devait habiter |’église Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre, 
asile des pélerins étrangers; et cette église est sise en face de Notre-Dame de Paris, sur 
l’autre rive de la Seine, au pied de Université? [...] Vous saurez tout a |’heure, quand 
je parlerai de Boccace et de son livre [...] comment j’ai une raison de plus pour affirmer 
avec une aussi fiére hardiesse le séjour de Dante chez nous, dans le vieux, dans le cher 
Paris, au pied des tours de Notre-Dame, le clocher de notre village.'® 

([...] don’t you remember well that Dante, in Paris, must have stayed at the church of 
Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre, refuge of foreign travelers; and this church sits across from 
Paris’s Notre-Dame, on the other bank of the Seine, at the foot of the University? [...] 
You will understand soon, when I speak of Boccaccio and his book [...] how I have one 
reason more to affirm with such proud certainty Dante’s visit to us, in the old, beloved 
Paris, at the foot of the towers of Notre-Dame, the clock-tower of our village.) 


In the garden of this church there now stands a fountain (Figure 6), 
commissioned in 1995 by the city of Paris of the sculptor Georges Jeanclos (b. 
1933). This fountain, owing a great deal in its pseudo-gothic form to Rodin’s 
sculptural illustration of Dante’s Divine Comedy, the Gates of Hell, marks the 
area known as the “pourpris de Dante” (Dante’s cloister"). 

This area, previously the site of the ancient Hd6tel-Dieu at the quai 
Montebello, was cleared in 1909 by the city of Paris. It was then proposed that a 
school of decorative arts be established there, to much public indignation. 
Finally, in 1923, just two years after the sixth centenary of Dante’s death 
celebrated at Saint-Séverin, the proposal was put forth to commemorate the 
“pourpris de Dante” as a public garden, which was achieved in 1928. The 
fountain created by Jeanclos is at the axis of the churches of Notre-Dame and 
Saint-Julien, just off the beginning of the rue Dante. This also marks the 
location of “kilometer 0,” where all France’s road measurements begin. Dante’s 
legend is such an integral part of the identity of medieval Paris that it has been 
selected to mark, as it were, the nexus of French civilization. 


Dante in Paradise 

If Dante could be scorned by the women of Ravenna rather than Verona and 
lean on the 15th-century pillar in Saint-Séverin, could he not also inhabit 
Paradise within French 19th-century imagination? In art, anyway, Dante kept 
company frequently with the most illustrious French luminaries. While not 


'© Gauthiez, Dante le Chrétien 235. The quotation is an excerpt from Gauthiez’s speech 
of March 18, 1909, to the Dante Society of Florence. 


250 Aida Audeh 


based of course on any biographical text, as were the other legends, the topos of 
Dante among the pantheon of “grandes hommes” of French history was a 
frequent subject of painting and sculpture in the salons of the 19th century. 
Drawn perhaps loosely from Dante’s own meeting with the great philosophers in 
Inferno 4, artists in the 19th century expanded this retinue to include the likes of 
Nicolas Poussin and Victor Hugo. 

One of the earliest manifestations of this utopian vision was Jean-Auguste- 
Dominque Ingres’s (b. 1780, d. 1867) Apotheosis of Homer of 1827.'’ In this 
work Dante stands, with Virgil’s hand on his shoulder, alongside not only the 
ancients but significantly in company with Poussin, Racine, Corneille, and 
Colbert: the creators of France’s great cultural traditions of art and literature in 
the 17th century. Created for the ceiling of the ninth room of the Louvre (during 
the Bourbon restoration called the Musée Charles X), this painting is one of the 
first of a series of government commissions incorporating Dante as historical 
figure or his writings within public monuments or spaces. Others to follow 
would include Delacroix’s cupola for the library of the Senate in the Palais du 
Luxembourg in Paris (featuring Dante meeting the ancient poets and 
philosophers), Paul Chenavard’s panels for the Pantheon also in Paris (which, 
though never installed, were based on the Divine Comedy), and of course 
Rodin’s Gates of Hell, intended for the Musée des Arts Décoratifs. In this way, 
as an integral part of state commissions, Dante is formally appropriated within 
French cultural tradition, associated through these commissions with bastions of 
French culture: museum of art, monument to France’s political and cultural 
icons, and seat of government. 

Probably the most fascinating of 19th-century constructions of a sort of 
Dantesque utopia is Lucien Pallez’s (b. 1853, d. ?) sculpture Apothéose de 
Victor Hugo, exhibited in a plaster version at the Paris salon of 1886.'* In this 
work Hugo reposes on a bed, while surrounding him, seemingly awaiting him in 
Paradise, are Dante, Virgil, Shakespeare, Euripides, Corneille, Moliére, and 
Pegasus, as well as personifications of Poetry, Drama, Comedy, Justice, Piety, 
Immortality, and Renown. While reviews of the work were not favorable (one 
reviewer called it “pauvre et vulgaire,” describing the figure of Hugo as a 
“simple cadavre entouré de satellites illustres”), the fact that by the 1880s Dante 
would be presented in popular salon art as welcoming France’s most beloved 
poet to Paradise is indeed quite remarkable. What more obvious way to equate 


'? Ingres also produced, in at least four nearly identical versions, Paul et Francoise de 
Rimini, which depicts the couple at the moment of their fatal embrace. The earliest of 
these paintings dates to 1814 and the last to 1845. Also exhibited at the Salon of 1886 
were Guillaume Alaux’s Béatrix (painting) and Frangois Lafon’s Le Purgatoire 
(painting). 

'§ Pallez also created a sculpture in plaster titled Béatrice (based on the Vita nuova), 
exhibited at the Salon of 1892. 


Images of Dante’s Exile in 19""-Century France 251 


France’s literary traditions (the great Victor Hugo, still lauded as France’s 
favorite son) with Dante’s achievements and legend? Hugo had himself recalled 
Dante countless times in his own writings, and his love for the Middle Ages was 
well-known, but this fact alone does not account for this widespread 
appropriation of Dante within French culture. 

To conclude, one may ask the question: What is it about the life and works 
of Dante that not only allows but, more than that, seems to invite elaboration and 
appropriation so that, in final analysis, the inventions of 19th-century French 
culture exceeded even the vast scope of Dante’s legend? 

It could be argued that Dante’s legend and writings lend themselves to 
appropriation for any number of interests (French Romanticism, Italian 
Risorgimento, even Mussolini’s Fascism) because of their inherent ambiguity. 
Arguments over Dante’s orthodoxy as a Catholic raged among right-wing 
Catholics and liberal reformers, each of whom tried to claim Dante as their own. 
Staunch republicans battled royalists over Dante’s political views, each finding 
in him a champion for their preferred form of government. Perhaps it is simply 
that Dante as a writer and historical figure was indeed as multifaceted as 
Boccaccio claimed (poet, theologian, philosopher), each aspect striking a chord 
with some component of French culture in the 19th century. 

While it cannot be proven definitively that Dante ever visited Paris, what is 
important about his exile is that this time of transience in Dante’s life that does 
not allow absolute historical certainty concerning his journeys, enabled French 
culture to appropriate him for its own purposes. Consequently, Dante the 
wandering exile became in the 19th century the archetypal French Romantic for 
Barbier and the salon artists of Paris; the scholar of the Sorbonne for Balzac and 
a host of others who used his image to anchor the city’s importance in the 
Middle Ages; and, finally, the mentor in excelsis to France’s greatest artists and 
poets. After these trends have been identified, what requires further exploration 
are the reasons behind French culture’s choice of Dante to fulfil these disparate 
roles. In brief, French culture found in Dante a universal symbol for its ideals of 
patriotism, religious faith, erudition, and creative genius that resonated so 
strongly in the 19th century, burgeoning with Romanticism, but cpntinuing 
throughout that century and into the next. 


Hamline University 


252 Aida Audeh 


Works Cited 


Alighieri, Dante. Paradiso. Trans. John D. Sinclair. New York: Oxford UP, 1961. 

L’Art. Paris, 1881. 25: 142. 

Audeh, Aida. “Rodin’s Gates of Hell and Aubé’s Monument to Dante: Romantic Tribute 
to the Image of the Poet in 19th-Century France.” The Stanford University Museum 
of Art Journal (The Journal of the Iris and B. Gerald Cantor Center for the Visual 
Arts at Stanford University) | (1998-1999): 33-46. 

. Rodin’s Gates of Hell and Dante’s Divine Comedy: An Iconographic Study. 
Diss. U Iowa, 2002. Ann Arbor: UMI, 2002. 

. “Rodin’s Gates of Hell: Sculptural Illustration of Dante’s Divine Comedy.” 
Rodin: A Magnificent Obsession. London: Merrell, 2001. 93-126. 

Balbo, Cesare. Dante. Trans. Comtesse de Lalaing. Brussels: Hayez, 1844-46. 

Balzac, Honoré de. “The Exiles.” Trans. George Saintsbury. The Human Comedy. New 
York: Collier, 1900. 

Balzac, Honoré de. “Les Proscrits.” La Comédie Humaine. Paris: Bibliothéque Pléiade, 
1935. 

Barbier, Auguste. Jambes et Poémes. 8th ed. Paris: Masgana, 1856. 

Beauplan, Robert de. “Le Jubilé de Dante a l’église Saint-Séverin.” L ‘Illustration. 30 
April 1921: 392-94. 

Boccaccio, Giovanni. “Life of Dante.” Trans. James Robinson Smith. The Earliest Lives 
of Dante. New York: Ungar, 1963. 

. Vie de Dante. Trans. Pierre Gauthiez. Paris: Tallandier, 1929. 
. Vita di Dante e difesa della poesia. Rome: Edizioni dell’ Ateneo, 1963. 

Coussillan, Auguste André. Dictionnaire historique des rues de Paris. Paris: Editions de 
Minuit, 1973. 

Dumas, F. G. Le Salon: Journal de |’Eposition Annuelle des Beaux-Arts. Paris, 1880. 
Explication des ouvrages exposés au Musée Royal le ler mars 1839. Paris: Vinchon, 
1839. 

Explication des ouvrages exposés au Palais des Champs Elysées le 15 avril 1859. Paris: 
Vinchon, 1859. 

Explication des ouvrages exposés aux menus-plaisirs le 15 mai 1853. Paris: Vinchon, 
1853. 

Gauthiez, Pierre. Dante le Chrétien. Paris: Plon, 1933. 

Pitwood, Michael. Dante and the French Romantics. Geneva: Droz, 1985. 


Images of Dante’s Exile in 19"-Century France 253 





Figure 1. Caricature by Cham of Félix-Joseph Barrias' painting Dante Alighieri (Salon of 
1853), published in the Revue du Salon de 1853 par Cham (Paris, 1853). The caricature's 
caption reads: "Le Dante courant chez le pharmacien afin de se faire traiter pour I'affreuse 
maladie de peau qu'il a contractée dans l'atelier de M. Barrias." Photo: BAA Jacques 


Doucet, Paris. 


Aida Audeh 


254 





Figure 2. Caricature by Nidrac of Paul Emile Sautai’s painting Dante exilé (Salon of 


1880), published in Salon comique 1880 (Paris, 1880). Photo: BAA Jacques Doucet, 


Paris. 


Images of Dante's Exile in 19"-Century France 255 


PATER — Colldee de 
abun ite Doaete 





Figure 3. Jean-Paul Aubé. Monument to Dante (Salon of 1880), in front of the Collége 
de France, Paris. From a postcard of the 1890s. Photo: Aida Audeh. 


256 Aida Audeh 





1 4 
1 Mibbabad es 
oi fo 4 
¢ ot ho 
i 
“i Mee: 
‘ De geet ta 


“ 


® ” aes 
ve ere erate ant 





Figure 4. IIlustration by Henry Cheffer of the church of Saint-Séverin accompanying the 
article “Jubilé de Dante a I'église de Saint-Séverin,” /'Illustration, April 30, 1921. The 
caption reads: “Rue des Prétres-Saint-Séverin et facade de l'Eglise ot la tradition veut 
que Dante soit venu prier.” Photo: University of Iowa Library, Special Collections. 


Images of Dante’s Exile in 19'"-Century France 257 





Figure 5. Illustration by Henry Cheffer of the interior of the church of Saint-Séverin 
accompanying the article “Jubilé de Dante a |’église de Saint-Séverin,” /'///ustration, 
April 30, 1921. The caption reads: “Le ‘Pilier de Dante’ a Saint-Séverin, derriére le 
maitre-autel, au centre de |’abside.” Photo: University of Iowa Library, Special 
Collections. 


258 Aida Audeh 


mye or 
grt eg 


gee 


wd 


rer 
¥ pie 
" 





Figure 6. Georges Jeanclos. Fontaine Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre, 1995, in the public garden 
behind the church of Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre, Paris. Photo: Aida Audeh. 


Assumpta Camps 


Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: 
per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 


Se, insieme a Mario Luzi, riteniamo che |’elegia moderna presente nelle 
esperienze poetiche novecentesche si nutre principalmente della felicita negata 
per la “deposizione dal trono” sperimentata dal poeta moderno e dal suo 
disinganno, vera origine della “geremiade” novecentesca che porta il poeta a 
dichiarare la propria estraneita e a imputare al mondo la sua assurdita e 
inumanita, Dino Campana é indubbiamente un referente fondamentale 
dell’istituto poetico italiano novecentesco negli anni anteriori alla II Guerra 
Mondiale. In Campana questo sentimento di sradicamento, di emarginazione nei 
confronti del corpo sociale, vera origine del suo esilio interiore, avra in pil una 
dimensione nettamente biografica, risultato della sua instabilita mentale e dei 
problemi psicologici che determinano non solo i suoi vari soggiorni in centri 
psichiatrici da giovane, ma la sua finale reclusione nell’Ospedale psichiatrico di 
Castel Pulci nel 1918. Cid nonostante, nell’insieme della sua opera questo 
indubbio elemento biografico verra particolarmente tematizzato sub specie 
letteraria, convergendo intorno al motivo fondamentale del viaggio, di lunga 
tradizione letteraria. Viaggio come fuga, come via per scappare al sentimento di 
esilio interiore del poeta. Viaggio motivato dalla sua stessa irrequietudine, dal 
suo ricorrente spaesamento e nomadismo essenziale. Viaggio, in fine, anche 
come purificazione e ricerca di un Ideale intravisto sempre altrove: come 
nostalgia di una purezza forse solo possibile ormai nelle origini. 

La critica campaniana ha sottolineato piu volte l’importanza del marradese 
nella linea di continuita fra la tradizione letteraria italiana, il simbolismo 
francese e la posteriore stagione poetica degli ermetici,’ una linea nella quale 
spicca, come rapporto privilegiato, anche se non unico, la poesia francese del 
secondo Ottocento. Campana, in effetti, dimostra in molte occasioni di 
conoscere in profondita questi autori (in modo particolare Baudelaire, Verlaine e 
Rimbaud), che cita a memoria e che persino riscrive in tanti momenti della sua 
opera, stabilendo dei precisi dialoghi intertestuali, oppure, in altre occasioni, 
costruendo una trama di allusioni, anche se velata, integrata nella sua scrittura 
poetica e tutt’altro che stereotipata. 

Nel presente saggio il nostro oggettivo sara studiare in profondita il tema 
del viaggio e dell’esilio interiore in Dino Campana come asse esegetico della 
sua opera che struttura un complesso universo poetico insieme ad altri nuclei 


' In effetti: “Canti Orfici [...] segnano un passo decisivo (e per alcuni critici i/ passo 
decisivo) per riagganciare la tradizione italiana alla ricerca del miglior simbolismo 
francese, aprendo la strada a quello che poi diventera |’ermetismo” (Turchetta 1988, 16). 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


260 Assumpta Camps 


significativi di rilievo nell’opera del marradese. Pendendo questo tema come 
base delle direttrici fondamentali della sua produzione letteraria, analizzeremo la 
rilettura che Campana intraprende del simbolismo francese, nel suo inserirsi 
nelle correnti poetiche della modernita, e quindi la presenza di temi e motivi 
letterari simbolisti nella sua opera. 


1. Il poeta e la citta moderna 

Nell’insieme della sua opera, Campana ha scelto in molte occasioni la citta 
come scenario della sua agitata prassi poetica. E questa citta moderna, spazio 
urbano del nuovo mondo industriale, dove il poeta situa il pit delle volte il 
sentimento di solitudine e angoscia esistenziale che l’assale. Citta di incubo 
“dolce come il dolore”, o citta-miraggio, allegra e mediterranea, piena di vita? 
L’opera di Campana si sviluppa fra questi due poli, costituendo un’alternanza 
che articola il suo universo poetico personale intorno a due momenti, positivo e 
negativo, della stessa citta (Firenze, Genova, ecc.), intravista non solo come 
cornice prediletta dell’esperienza esistenziale del soggetto poetico, ma pure 
come visione soggettiva, proiezione interiore del poeta nel suo esilio interiore e 
solitudine essenziale. 

Questa citta campaniana si definisce attraverso pochi, ma ricorrenti, tratti 
fisici, con scarse varianti da Canti orfici al Taccuino, in modo tale da mostrare 
una continuita nel discorso letterario dell’autore, senza un vero confine fra 
componimento lirico e prosa d’arte. Si tratta, nella maggior parte dei casi, di una 
citta portuale, popolata da figure dei bassi fondi (ladri, marinai, prostitute, ecc.), 
immersa nel fetore delle fogne e la putredine dei marasmi: citta “infiamata”, che 
si copre di tonalita di un rosso intenso, fortemente espressionista, e viene 
rappresentata di preferenza all’ora del tramonto;’ citta avida di piaceri e di 
guadagno, quale una “babele perfida”; citta di incubo per chi vaga di notte senza 
scopo fra i suoi vicoli, piazze, fontane, torri o pinnacoli: spazi deserti, sotto la 
luce elettrica dei lampioni, che rendono spettrale la visione, ecc. 

I] suo é, in effetti, un perpetuo vagabondare notturno, proprio dell’insonne 
che passeggia per i vicoli di questa citta-spazio simbolico (La Notte), solitaria 
(Scirocco, Era la vigilia di Natale), la quale acquista un’aria fortemente irreale.° 
Poeta notturno (La Chimera) e errante (La speranza, La sera di fiera, 
Dualismo), Campana sceglie come spazio pil adatto alla sua condizione gli 
ambienti pili degradati dell’urbs moderna (cosi ne La Notte, Dualismo, 


? Si veda Giardino autunnale, dove il motivo del tramonto si combina con una lunga serie 
di motivi decadentisti; oppure Crepuscolo mediterraneo e La Verna, con il suo cielo 
minacciante, che riappare nella “visione di sangue” presente ne La giornata di un 
nevrastenico e ne Il Russo (Campana 1973, I: Canti orfici, d’ora in avanti citato sempre 
da quest’edizione). 

> Si veda, per esempio, il forte carattere fantastico di questa citta in Era la Vigilia di 
Natale. 





Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 261 


L’invetriata, Piazza Sarzano, Botte botte, ecc.). Nel suo polo negativo, la citta 
campaniana é senz’altro una citta infernale, abitata da uomini come spettri (Era 
la Vigilia di Natale), colossale e anonima, desolata e lussuriosa,’ scheletrica, 
vera immagine di una condizione esistenziale alienata, legata al vizio e alla 
degradazione dell’individuo (Firenze), agli incontri falliti con donne come sfingi 
(La notte, La Chimera, Genova), dove il poeta non solo si scontra fugacemente 
con |’Altro, ma allo stesso tempo si rispecchia nella sua stessa alienazione. In 
ogni caso, questa citta infernale si presentera in Campana con i segni propri 
della modernita. 

Poiché, in effetti, i caratteri che sottolineano la modernita di questo spazio 
urbano e della vita che in esso si svolge sono molto evidenti nel marradese. 
Vengono particolarmente messi di rilievo alcuni elementi significativi, come 
uso dell’elettricita,” la presenza (non pit’ mostruosa) delle macchine,° 
l’inclusione di altri elementi della vita moderna ritenuti letterariamente spuri 
quali il telegrafo’ o persino la polluzione ambientale. In genere, si pud parlare di 
una vera apologia dell’attivita economica febbrile,® che si combina tante volte 
con l’elogio — di stampo futurista — della velocita (per esempio, Pampa). E se 
é pur vero che l’urbs moderna corrisponde, in tanti momenti dell’opera di 
Campana, a uno spazio di alienazione per |’individuo moderno, offrendosi come 
rappresentazione della nuova condizione proletarizzata del poeta, non € meno 
vero che certe visioni della citta, proprio perché spazio per eccellenza della vita 
moderna, sono eccezionalmente splendide e piene di vita (in modo particolare 
Piazza Sarzano). D’altra parte, proprio in questo contesto di anonimato e 
solitudine che offre la citta moderna, il poeta ritrovera allo stesso tempo uno 
spazio di liberta personale, che gli era stato negato altrove: e cioé la liberta 
dell’anonimato, che corrisponde alla sua sostanziale irrequietudine moderna.’ 

Sono varie le immagini di sé stesso che Campana ci offre lungo la sua 
opera. Cid nonostante, nei vari autoritratti rintracciabili prevale sempre la 
condizione errante: il nevrastenico che passeggia per la citta senza uno scopo 
preciso, come un maledetto,'° un’immagine che echeggia in quell’altra del 


* Si veda Genova, con le sue prostitute descritte come sirene, oppure l’ambiente canaille 
dell’ osteria rappresentata in Firenze. 

> Si vedano La sera di fiera, La notte, Dualismo, oppure Passeggiata in tram in America 
e ritorno, per esempio. 

° Va ricordato particolarmente il treno in Sogno di prigione 0 Pampa, immagine che 
contrasta con certe altre rappresentazioni del treno come macchina infernale, come per 
esempio in Carducci. 

7 Per esempio, La giornata del nevrastenico. 

® Passeggiata in tram in America e ritorno, senza dimenticare Genova. 

* Cosi si avverte chiaramente in Botte botte 0 La giornata del nevrastenico. 

'° Nel maledettismo di Campana si avverte anche un vago satanismo di stampo piuttosto 
letterario e convenzionale, che rinvia direttamente alla koiné simbolista-decadentista fin- 
de-siécle. Si veda, in questo senso, La giornata di un nevrastenico, dove, non a caso, il 


262 Assumpta Camps 


pazzo, presente ne L’incontro di Regolo. Nello stesso senso, va ricordato 
l’autoritratto del poeta come cane randagio ne La petite promenade du poéte — 
fra altri esempi — oppure come figliolo prodigo (Firenze). In tutti i casi la 
critica ha evidenziato tradizionalmente la presenza di un maledettismo poetico in 
Campana, che é stato anche in parte contraddetto.'' Questo nomadismo 
essenziale si concreta nella figura del cavaliere errante in cerca di una 
purificazione interiore nell’importante prosa diaristica che ha per titolo La 
Verna. Poeta-vagabondo e quasi ulissiaco,'* senza mai un punto di approdo, 
Campana si presenta perpetuamente errante. In questo senso, il tema del viaggio 
non solo contiene precisi ed effettivi riferimenti biografici,'* ma acquista un piv 
alto significato all’interno della sua opera, poiché diventa la rappresentazione di 
una condizione esistenziale che corrisponde all’irrequietudine di animo del 
poeta, al tempo che raffigura il suo perpetuo esilio interiore. Tale condizione 
verra intesa come |’elemento fondamentale della sua modernita. 

2. Temi e motivi del Simbolismo francese in D. Campana 

In questo contesto, l’approdo a un “maledettismo” poetico, sia pur di maniera, 
quale atteggiamento vitale che esprime questo sostanziale sradicamento del 
poeta e la sua effettiva emarginazione sociale, corrisponde alla instabilita 
mentale del marradese. Al di 1a dell’effettiva convergenza fra letteratura e vita, 
di stampo indubbiamente decadentista, ci interessera evidenziare in sede critica 
gli stretti rapporti intertestuali che la sua scrittura presenta con la poesia francese 
ottocentesca — in modo particolare, con l’opera di Baudelaire, Verlaine e 
Rimbaud'* — e i suoi nessi profondi con questi precedenti poetici nella 


poema si chiude con un’invocazione a Satana; oppure La Notte, dove riaffiora il mito di 
Faust. 

'' In effetti, & ricorrente l’interpretazione di Campana quale poeta maledetto, eco dei 
“maudits” francesi, pazzo e anche primitivo. L’interpretazione é contrastata 
particolarmente da G. Turchetta (1985 e 1988), in una linea critica che si ritrova nella 
lettura di Campana intrapresa da M. Luzi (1973). Per loro, al contrario, domina nel 
marradese “un atteggiamento di valorizzazione del mondo e dell’esistente” (Turchetta 
1985, 407). Pur ammettendo che Campana é “ben lungi dall’essere riducibile ad un 
epigono del decadentismo” (390), resta pur vera la presenza di motivi strettamente legati 
al diffuso maledettismo fin-de-siécle della koiné simbolista-decadentista, che Campana 
riprende pili volte, e adopera nella costruzione dei suoi temi fondamentali. 

'2 Si veda soprattutto Genova. 

' Sono molti i viaggi di Campana prima della sua finale reclusione: per esempio, il 
viaggio per la Svizzera, Francia, il Belgio e la Germania (maggio-luglio 1906); il viaggio 
in America della fine del 1907 (Buenos Aires, Rosario, Santa Rosa de Toay, Mendoza, 
ecc.); il viaggio in Odessa del 1909; e di nuovo un viaggio per Europa agli inizi del 1910. 
Si vedano P. Ladr6én de Guevara, e G. Turchetta 1985. 

'* Non riteniamo affatto “modesta” né “praticamente ininfluente” questa presenza 
rimbaldiana in Campana, come sostiene G. Turchetta (La cultura di Dino Campana 1985, 
373), come cercheremo di dimostrare in questa sede. 








Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 263 


costruzione del suo immaginario e delle metafore ossessive dell’autore. 

Il tema dello sradicamento presenta, in effetti, una rilettura dei topoi 
letterari degli autori accennati. In tutti i casi, questo sradicamento sociale si 
collega con un “maledettismo” presentato anche come modernita di spirito, 
mentre |’irrequietezza e il sentimento di emarginazione si concretano in una 
condizione da bohéme che segna la nuova condizione sociale e esistenziale del 
poeta moderno. Per questo motivo, tutti e tre i poeti costituiscono dei referenti 
fondamentali in Campana, e saranno, in effetti, molto ricorrenti nella sua opera, 
sia in modo esplicito o tramite allusioni dirette o rielaborate (anche se 
rintracciabili), che velatamente, evidenziando un’affinita sostanziale che il poeta 
iscrive all’interno della koiné simbolista-decadentista fin-de-siécle. Nei riguardi 
di questo nucleo significativo, vanno ricordate, per esempio, a proposito di 
Baudelaire, certe prose poetiche dello scrittore francese, quali Le mauvais 
vitrier, dove il maledettismo si presenta come la chiave della differenza che 
permette al poeta di avere una esperienza creativa eccezionale. Oppure Le vieux 
saltimbanque, quale ritratto del poeta come clown, abbandonato da tutti nei 
tempi moderni; una prosa da collegarsi indubbiamente con quell’altra, ben nota, 
dal titolo Perte d’auréole, dove il poeta accetta la sua emarginazione sociale con 
una sottile ironia. Les vocations, in rapporto di vicinanza con il poema 
Bénédiction di Spleen et Idéal, insiste su questa condizione emarginata, al tempo 
stesso che segna lo stigmate del poeta maledetto dalla nascita nella 
“benedizione”/’maledizione” rivoltagli da sua madre.'* Les bons chiens —e pit 
tardi Le vin de l’assassin, della serie Le vin —, nel suo parallelismo fra il poeta 
e il cane randagio, completano questo autoritratto baudelairiano, che sara ben 
presente in Campana.'° 

Il tema del maledettismo é onnipresente in Baudelaire, del resto. Spleen et 
Idéal & una raccolta poetica che inizia proprio con questo tema, approdando ad 
una significativa invocazione a Satana (Epigraphe pour un livre condamné), che 
avvicina il poeta francese a Campana. La stessa invocazione viene ripresa nel 
seguente componimento lirico della raccolta, Au Jecteur, nel quale questo 
atteggiamento si mostra in tutta la sua rilevanza, poiché si presenta come una via 
per scappare al tedio o Spleen. Nello stesso senso, vanno ricordati i 
componimenti “Tu mettrais l’univers entier dans ta ruelle, ...”, e ancora Les 
litanies de Satan — Rebellion). La professione di satanismo del poeta maledetto 
spicca anche in altri momenti dell’opera baudelairiana, come nella prosa poetica 
Le joueur généreux, rilettura ironica del mito di Faust, ugualmente presente in 


'S Aspetto, questo, particolarmente interessante a proposito di Campana, i cui rapporti 
con la madre furono, come é ben noto, particolarmente conflittuali. 

'€ In questo senso, va ricordata soprattutto La petite promenade du poéte, non a caso con 
un titolo in francese. 


264 Assumpta Camps 


Campana.'’ Cosi maledettismo e orgoglio satanico convergono nel ritratto del 
poeta moderno, come si avverte, per esempio, in Le vin du solitaire (serie Le 
vin). D’altra parte, il volume di prose baudelairiane intitolato Poémes en prose si 
chiude appunto con un’altra invocazione a Satana e un elogio della citta 
moderna e dei suoi bassi fondi (Epilogue). La stessa filiazione satanica si ripete 
in Spleen et Idéal, quando il poeta si presenta come impossessato in Le possédé 
(lirica che conclude con un significativo “O mon cher Belzébuth, je t’adore!). 
Nello stesso senso, vanno ricordati componimenti lirici della stessa raccolta 
come La muse malade e La muse vénale, in cui spicca non solo la fraternita, 
nella loro comune condizione sociale emarginata, fra il poeta e la prostituta, ma 
di nuovo il motivo del saltimbanco, che profila ulteriormente il volto sociale del 
poeta moderno come clown. Nello stesso senso, nella raccolta Les fleurs du mal, 
La destruction, insieme a Femmes damnées, si riprendera |importante 
parallelismo poeta-prostituta, sia per la comune emarginazione sociale, che per 
la venalita. 

Cosi, nella tradizione simbolista-decadentista, il poeta maledetto trovera 
uno scenario prediletto non solo nella citta moderna, ma anche negli ambienti 
pili degradati di essa: il bordello’ e, in genere, i vicoli e bassifondi della citta.'” 
Solitudine, emarginazione e sentimento di sradicamento,” e persino demenza,”! 
si ripetono pil e pili volte, diventando in fin dei conti la chiave della sua 
condizione poetica: e cioé della sua radicale differenza nei confronti della gente 
corrente e, quindi, la chiave della sua capacita creativa (4 une heure du matin). 
Il tema si presenta, sia in Baudelaire che in Campana, collegato al motivo 
ricorrente del crepuscolo. Si tratta, pero, di un crepuscolo di forte tinte rosse, 
sanguinante, turbolento (vedi Harmonie du soir), annuncio, nel francese come 
nell’italiano, della calma del giorno per chi ha lavorato, e dell’ irrequietezza della 
notte per il poeta.” 

Un secondo ambito di convergenza con Baudelaire privilegia il tema 
infernale, come scenario abitato da figure di ricorrenza quasi ossessiva, dove 
l’allusione si rende quasi sempre esplicita. Per esempio, agli esordi dei Canti 


'7 Si veda, in modo particolare, Turchetta. La cultura di Dino Campana 1985 a proposito 
della ripresa del mito di Faust in Campana e del suo significato. 

'§ Si veda, per esempio, in Quadres parisiens de Baudelaire, Le crépuscle du soir, Le jeu, 
oppure, in Les fleurs du mal, Les deux bonnes soeurs. 

'° Cosi in Le soleil, Réve parisien, fra altri esempi. 

*° Si veda la prima delle prose poetiche di Baudelaire, che apre la raccolta dei Poémes en 
prose: L’étranger. 

7! Per le prose si vedano: Le fou et la Vénus, Le crépuscule du soir, La solitude, e per i 
componimenti lirici: Le mauvais moine o La voix, di Spleen et Idéal. 

2 Si veda la prosa Le crépuscule du soir, e in modo particolare i componimenti 
Récueillement e Le crépuscule du soir in Quadres parisiens, anche se il tema si fa 
presente in altri momenti, e persino in collegamento con il motivo, fondamentale, del 
viaggio: L'invitation au voyage, in Spleen [...], oppure Le voyage nella serie La mort. 








Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 265 


Orfici, con la presenza del corteo quale visione infernale, paragonato a un fiume 
(La Notte), che rinvia a L’irrémédiable e Spleen LXXV della raccolta Les Fleurs 
du mal. Lo scenario infernale si popola di prostitute come sfingi, come avviene 
anche in Les chats de la stessa raccolta baudelairiana, e altre figure ricorrenti in 
Campana, quali la matrona (La Notte), abitualmente accompagnata 
dall’“‘ancella”. Ma, soprattutto, va ricordato il “vecchio infernale” (// Russo), sia 
in Les sept veillards che in Le flacon e probabilmente anche in De profundis 
clamavi. 11 tema infernale, di ascendenza nettamente baudelairiana in questo 
caso, si completa con altre reminiscenze, quali la danza macabra presente nel 
Sonetto perfido e focoso (Campana 1973, II, p. 309) che rinvia al Baudelaire 
della Danse macabre e ancora del De profundis clamavi (per l’allusione al 
titolo). La danza infernale dello scheletro arricchisce notevolmente di connotati 
questa visione spettrale che si impone nella rappresentazione del reale in 
Campana, funzionale nel tema della citta e della riflessione intorno allo stesso 
rapporto del poeta con il mondo circostante. L’assoluta percorrenza delle 
reminiscenze del Baudelaire pit “infernale” viene confermata, d’altra parte, 
dalla presenza della Chimera, un altro elemento fondamentale della koiné 
simbolista) e decadentista. Cid nonostante, al di 1a di tutto quanto 
precedentemente indicato, si possono rintracciare cenni concreti a Les Fleurs du 
mal, e di preciso a Le serpent qui danse e Sed non satiata XXVI, in Oscar Wilde 
a S. Miniato (Campana 1973, II, 304), cosi come a Les Epaves ne La Chimera, 
che rinvia a Lesbos.”? L’invocazione a Satana, presente ne La giornata di un 
nevrastenico, sembra, d’altra parte, rinviare direttamente a Les litanies de Satan 
baudelairiane. Cid nonostante, questo non sara |’unico referente a proposito di 
questo motivo, poiché l’invocazione al “dio in esilio”, cioé Satana, si ritrova pit 
volte nei Canti Orfici per esempio in Spada barbarica, dove echeggia 
ugualmente il Supplément aux Fleurs du mal, Le rebelle, per la presenza 
dell’immagine del “tapis triomphal” (Pecorano), reminiscenza che va completata 
dalla ripresa della “couronne mystique” nel “diadema” di Una strana zingarella, 
che rinvia a Bénédiction. Al di la di queste presenze precise, emerge 
un’allusione che riguarda un’altra figura fondamentale nella rappresentazione 
dell’inferno campaniana e baudelairiana. Facciamo riferimento alla Morte, 
intravista quale “vecchio capitano”, che collega indubbiamente // tempo 
mirabile consumi (Campana, II, p. 298) con la conclusione del componimento 
Le voyage. 

Ovviamente tali rinvii a Baudelaire, e in modo particolare quello 
riguardante Les Litanies de Satan, ripreso ne La giornata di un nevrastenico, Ci 


3 Interessante é l’interpretazione di Aldo Pecorano a proposito di questo rinvio, che 
collega l’ambivalenza emotiva (piacere/dolore) caratteristica di Campana con il mito di 
Orfeo, morto per azione delle Menadi, e collegato a Lesbos, isola tradizionalmente nota 
perché la tradizione vi situa l’origine della poesia stessa (AA.VV.: Materiali per Dino 
Campana 117-46). 


266 Assumpta Camps 


immettono in un altro tema fondamentale, di forte tradizione letteraria, oltre che 
molto presente nel Simbolismo francese, quale é il tema di Ofelia, collegato 
indubbiamente all’ambito significativo della morte, ma soprattutto a quello del 
perpetuo vagabondaggio. In questo senso vanno ricordati, oltre al titolo 
suindicato, altri componimenti dei Canti Orfici: La sera di fiera e Sogno in 
prigione, e, d’altra parte, Specie di serenata agra e falsa e melodrammatica, 
presente nel Quaderno. Il tema di Ofelia, proprio per questa centralita nella 
koiné simbolista-decadentista, costituisce un punto di convergenza del 
marradese con Verlaine e particolarmente con Rimbaud, nel quale si intrecciano 
le reminiscenze nell’opera campaniana. Echi baudelairiani nelle immagini di 
vagabondaggio perpetuo tanto frequenti in Campana, in rapporto con altri motivi 
collegati all’ebbrezza e alla crapule, si ripetono pit volte, restando facilmente 
rintracciabili nei Canti Orfici allusioni abbastanza esplicite di Les aveugles in 
Genova, o di Le vin de l’assassin e, d’altra parte, di Prosa fetida e Petite 
promenade du poéte. Questo parallelismo, tuttavia, verra incrementato 
posteriormente, come lo si constata a proposito di Quaderno. Riprese identiche, 
O quasi, si osservano, d’altra parte, a proposito di un tema fondamentale: si tratta 
del ben noto invito al viaggio in Baudelaire, che avvicina strettamente 
soprattutto Le voyage a L’incontro di Regolo. Il tema si collega con |’importante 
motivo della nave, di indubbia rilevanza per Campana, e, sul piano piv astratto, 
con la positivita del transitorio, giustamente messo in rapporto dalla critica con 
il motivo, tanto ricorrente in Baudelaire, della donna che passa, ripreso in 
Campana in vari modi, ma in genere convergente intorno alla figura della 
prostituta: e cioé, di una presenza femminile ugualmente transitoria. In questo 
senso, vanno ricordati certi passi dei Canti Orfici (Campana 1973, I, 7 e 80) in 
rapporto, non sempre esplicito, con Le serpent qui danse (sia per il motivo della 
donna che passa, che per quell’altro, di forte tradizione decadente, dei suoi occhi 
come gemme), e Le beau navire, un titolo chiave in questo parallelismo fra la 
donna e la nave in Baudelaire, oppure A una passante (dal titolo in italiano), per 
non parlare di altre figure femminili ugualmente fuggitive in Campana (vedi 
Une femme qui passe, significativamente in francese, presente nel Quaderno). 

Certamente i parallelismi fra il poeta marradese e il suo precedente francese 
saranno anche molto abbondanti a proposito di un altro dei grandi nuclei 
semantici delle loro opere: l’antinomia purezza/corruzione, assimilabile a 
quell’altra, fondamentale per i nostri scopi, ideale/reale. Cid nonostante, resta 
pur vero che tali reminiscenze sono anche interpretabili come coincidenze 
all’interno della grande koiné simbolista-decadentista della quale abbiamo 
parlato sopra. Probabilmente la stessa interpretazione vale a proposito di un altro 
referente francese di indubbia importanza per Campana, come vedremo, quale é 
Rimbaud, sia il Rimbaud di Un séjour en enfer e Illuminations, che quell’altro 
dell’ opera in versi. 

Per quanto riguarda, in vece, l’altro grande referente francese, cioé 
Verlaine, la critica sembra unanime nell’accettare il grande influsso che 








Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 267 


sicuramente ha avuto in Campana, tanto da essere presente non solo in citazioni 
e allusioni dirette, ma, pil significativo ancora, da venir citato spesso a 
memoria, non privo di inaccuratezze e trasformazioni intenzionali da parte di 
Campana. Lo stesso carteggio campaniano ne costituisce una riprova.”* Senza 
nessuna pretesa di essere esauriente, poiché molto probabilmente il capitolo del 
dialogo intertestuale fra Verlaine e Campana richiederebbe una pit profonda 
attenzione, impossibile in questa sede, vogliamo comunque raccogliere un 
piccolo elenco di reminiscenze precise, in parte gia rilevate dalla critica. Sembra 
indubbio il rapporto fra L’invetriata, da un lato, e Bournemouth di Verlaine 
dall’altro, in modo particolare per la presenza del motivo della “notte di 
velluto”, che rinvierebbe ugualmente a Bruxelles, di Romances sans paroles. 
Nello stesso senso, va ricordato J] bacio, di Poémes saturniens, ripreso a 
memoria in Taccuini I (Campana 1973, II, p. 380). Si tratta di un parallelismo 
altamente rilevante, dal momento che Campana s’identifica con Verlaire quale 
“chétif trouvére de Paris”. Sara forse il Verlaine pit nettamente caratterizzato 
come paradigma del poeta-errante e vagabondo, in corrispondenza con Poémes 
saturniens, quello piu rintracciabile nell’opera campaniana, nel suo complesso. 
Cosi sembrerebbe, almeno, visto il legame fra Sérénade e Grotesques, della 
stessa raccolta verlainiana, e Specie di serenata agra e falsa e melodrammatica 
(Campana 1973, II, p. 314-15). 

Lo stesso tema del poeta-errante si collega alla visione grottesca e irreale 
della citta, tanto caratteristica della Parigi verlainiana di Poémes saturniens, la 
quale trova un eco anche in Dualismo [...] all’interno dei Canti Orfici. Questo 
influsso verlainiano é particolarmente rilevante in questo punto, poiché 
contribuisce alla costruzione dell’autoritratto del poeta, e nell’insieme del suo 
immaginario intorno alla citta quale scenario per eccellenza. 

D’altra parte, alla koiné simbolista-decadentista si devono attribuire molto 
probabilmente altre reminiscenze verlainiane, anche se non unicamente tali. Per 
esempio, la presenza della Chimera, previamente commentata a proposito di 
Baudelaire. Va ricordato, in questo senso, il parallelismo esistente fra Fadeses di 
Juvenilia e La Notte, che apre i Canti Orfici. Una simile convergenza si constata 
intorno al tema dell’inferno, e nei riguardi dell’immagine del corteo-fiume 
presente dall’inizio nei Canti Orfici, e pit volte ripresa in Campana 


24 Si veda, per esempio, la lettera a Soffici che evidenzia questo influsso e ammirazione, 
confessato dallo stesso autore (Campana 1978, 125). Nello stesso senso, si vedano le 
reminiscenze verlainiane nel carteggio con Cecchi, dove echeggia la prima quartina di 
Parallélement (65), oppure la lettera ad Anstrid Anhfelt, che rinvia direttamente a 
Sagesse (Campana 1958, 576). D’altra parte, il rapporto stretto con Verlaine in alcuni dei 
suoi motivi pi ricorrenti — quale il crepuscolo di sangue, per esempio — si pud 
rintracciare anche in altri momenti dello stesso carteggio con S. Aleramo (532). 


268 Assumpta Camps 


(Passeggiata in tram..., Genova, oppure Notturno teppista).”> Oltre a queste 
reminiscenze, non possiamo, perd, dimenticare altri parallelismi, sempre a 
proposito di questo tema nel Verlaine di Poémes saturniens, e in modo 
particolare in Effet de nuit, Nocturne parisien, e Sub urbe. 

Il referente indubbio di Baudelaire e Verlaine in Campana si arricchisce di 
altri cenni a Rimbaud. I temi e motivi di coincidenza sono vari in questo caso, 
ma spicca, ancora una volta, il maledettismo, visto come un segno di forte 
modernita — poetica ed esistenziale allo stesso tempo, poiché riguarda 
l’atteggiamento vitale del poeta —, che non esclude |’invocazione a Satana gia 
commentata sopra, come lo si pud vedere anche in Campana. Cosi si avverte, 
per esempio, in certe prose d’///uminations come Matinée d’ivresse, Vagabonds, 
Angoisse, oppure H (importante anche per la fraternita poeta-prostituta di cui 
abbiamo parlato precedentemente). Ma il tema si fa presente ovunque, 
dall’inizio — senza titolo — fino all’Adieu finale in Un séjour [...], con 
importante ripresa del parallelismo, di grande importanza per il marradese, fra 
il poeta e il saltimbanco in L’éclair. Esso presenta, d’altra parte, alcuni altri echi 
notevoli, fra satanici e a volte particolarmente macabri, arricchiti da un forte 
gusto per la profanazione, che é molto presente nell’opera in versi dell’autore 
francese.”° In genere, la connessione fra i bassifondi della citta moderna, la 
degradazione e |’emarginazione sociale del poeta errante sembra pit nitida in 
Rimbaud, presentandosi quale vero elogio della vita moderna e della stessa 
condizione del poeta moderno quale bohémien, in un modo che verra 
parzialmente ripreso da Campana pit volte lungo la sua opera. Vanno ricordati, 
in questo senso, titoli quali L’orgie parisienne ou Paris se repeuple, un poema 
dove resta indubbia la venerazione del poeta francese per questo tema, insieme 
all’elogio della bohéme e la crapule \egata alla Parigi moderna. Oppure Au 
Cabaret-vert, cing heures du soir, che ha come continuazione, nel tema e nello 
stesso tono lubrico, La maline, e che presenta notevoli echi diffusi in Campana. 
Nello stesso senso, certe prose poetiche quali Enfance, Ville, Villes (1 e Il), in 
Illuminations, che riprendono aspetti ben presenti gia in Un séjour [...].’” Questa 
visione infernale e alienante della vita moderna, questa esperienza della 
degradazione e quasi di una necessaria immersione negli inferi della condizione 
del bohémien per il poeta, avvicinera fortemente Campana a Rimbaud, il quale 
trovera ugualmente nel viaggio una via di fuga e una vaga possibilita di ritorno 
alla purezza delle origini, come vedremo piu avanti. 


*> Probabilmente é giusto intravedere un rapporto fra quest’immagine e il fiume pieno di 
cadaveri di Arabesco-Olimpia (Campana 1973, II, 284), come propone A. Peconaro in 
AA.VV.: Materiali per Dino Campana 117-46. 

?° Cosi in Bal des pendus, Rages de Césars, oppure Oraison du soir, dove, ancora una 
volta, il maledettismo e l’irrequietezza di animo si combinano con il motivo di un 
crepuscolo rosso di sangue, quale proiezione dell’animo turbolento del poeta. 

*7 Si vedano, per esempio, Mauvais sang, Nuit de l'enfer, Délires (Ie I), ecc. 





Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 269 


Se scendiamo ad analizzare le tracce rimbaldiane concrete nell’opera di 
Campana, dobbiamo accennare in primo luogo al parallelismo fra Prospectus I, 
in Taccuini II (438) e Mystique di Illuminations, dove il marradese riprende “ia 
ligne des orients, des progrés” del poeta francese.”* D’altra parte, nel tema di 
Ofelia, gia commentato a proposito di Baudelaire, ma di indubbia importanza in 
Rimbaud, si possono rintracciare effettivamente rinvii precisi a Les premiéres 
communions e Ophélie di Poésies, arricchendo in questo modo di ulteriori 
connotazioni la convergenza nei temi dell’amore, la follia e il perpetuo 
vagabondaggio della “fanciulla morta”. Una simile rilevanza nell’immaginario 
campaniano acquista la visione deserta, perché saccheggiata, della citta moderna 
(vedi, per esempio, La Notte, La giornata di un nevrastenico), in un’indubbia 
ripresa di un motivo rimbaldiano ricorrente: “le saccage des promenades” 
(Turchetta, La cultura di Dino Campana 1985). Ugualmente fondamentale é il 
rinvio a Rimbaud in un altro motivo campaniano: la sera, come si fara presente 
nei “brividi [...] della notte’ (La Notte), con echi di Prominitoire 
d’//luminations, oppure Alchimie du verbe d’Une saison en_ enfer, 
particolarmente per quello che riguarda il motivo della sera estiva. D’altra parte, 
va ricordata una reminiscenza precisa nei Taccuini campaniani (Campana 1973, 
II, p. 441) di Les chercheuses de poux (vv. 17-18) e di Le vin de la Peresse 
(Turchetta, La cultura di Dino Campana 1985). 

A un livello piu stilistico, ¢ pur vero che ambedue gli autori condividono 
uno stesso gusto per l’aggettivazione del colore, come si avverte, per esempio, 
in Les premiéres communions (parte V) e Sogno di prigione. Questa 
convergenza si estende ad altri momenti dell’opera campaniana, dove si constata 
l’attrazione per il Rimbaud di Poésies e Vers nouveaux et chansons. A un livello 
strutturalmente pil significativo va ricordata la ripresa dell’alternanza 
purezza/corruzione, onnipresente in Rimbaud, e ugualmente ricorrente in 
Campana, che acquista un’altissima rilevanza nei riguardi del grande tema 
campaniano del viaggio, come vedremo in seguito. 

3. Viaggio e purificazione: la nostalgia delle origini 

In questo vagare perpetuo, il poeta contempla |’esperienza del viaggio non solo 
come un modo di vita positivo (da qui, per esempio, |’elogio degli zingari in 
Dualismo), ma come una vera peregrinazione con valore di purificazione 
interiore. Il momento pili sintomatico di questa esperienza, la quale presenta un 
carattere fortemente mistico, viene rappresentato ne La Verna, che trascrive 
letterariamente il viaggio fatto da Campana nel 1910 seguendo la lezione di San 
Francesco di Assisi. In questo componimento il lettore si confronta con 
un’allegoria: il soggetto poetico, quale cavaliere errante e solitario, va in cerca di 
un Ideale che non é altro che il recupero della fede e la finale purificazione 
spirituale. 


28 Si vedano anche Turchetta 1985 e Pecorano in AA. VV.: Materiali per D. Campana 
117-46. 


270 Assumpta Camps 


Il tema del viaggio come purificazione, situato in modo prevedibile in uno 
spazio naturale, e quindi come contrappunto alla citta dei bassifondi e della 
degradazione morale, riaffiora in altri momenti lungo l’opera di Campana, 
arricchendosi di connotazioni vari. Per esempio, come contrappunto alla nevrosi 
moderna ne L’incontro di Regolo, oppure combinandosi con un’evocazione 
della parabola del figliol prodigo in Firenze, dove si fa presente, del resto, un 
tema decadentista ben noto: la nostalgia della purezza delle origini, legata 
all’infanzia innocente del soggetto poetico, ma anche alla vita primitiva. In 
questo caso, tale tema si trasferisce all’ambito provinciale, e quindi alla vita 
patriarcale di un mondo preindustriale ormai definitivamente perso o 
minacciato, e in ogni caso antimoderno. La contemplazione della natura e il 
viaggio solitario per gli spazi naturali disabitati operano un balsamo spirituale e 
immettono il soggetto poetico in una armonia e serenita di spirito che 
difficilmente riesce a trovare in altri momenti. Questa desiderata fusione 
armonica con la natura avra un valore fortemente vitalistico.”? Cosi si avverte, 
per esempio, in Jmmagini del viaggio e della montagna, e in un modo simile, 
anche se con uno sfondo allegorico, in Pampa, dove si fa presente la 
similitudine fra il treno che corre per il paesaggio infinito della pampa e la vita 
errante del poeta, senza mai un punto di approdo, quale vera rappresentazione 
della sua condizione esistenziale. La stessa idea viene ripresa in Passeggiata in 
tram [...], con la sostituzione del treno con la nave, d’una parte, e, dall’altra, 
della pampa con il mare, ugualmente infinito. I] tema si completa, del resto, con 
certi motivi cari alla tradizione della letteratura di viaggi nello stabilire il 
parallelismo fra immobilita-morte (la quale accenna alla calma minacciante 
della bonaccia in un contesto marittimo), e quindi nell’indicare il bisogno 
costante di un vagare perpetuo senza mai fermarsi (vedi anche Genova). II 
viaggio perpetuo come forma di vita si fara coestensivo all’irrequietudine 
consustanziale del poeta ne L’incontro di Regolo, e affiora ugualmente in un 
altro autoritratto dell’autore come vagabondo nel viaggio-fuga descritto in 
Passeggiata in tram [...]. 

Questo bisogno imperioso di purificazione interiore che per Campana 
avviene nella natura avra in tanti momenti la dimensione di un misticismo laico, 
che in Campana corrisponde all’avvicinarsi alla lezione francescana (Barberi 
Squarotti 1983). L’esperienza, anche se rappresentata in chiave allegorica, era 
gia ben presente nella prosa fondamentale del diario de La Verna, come 
abbiamo visto, dove insieme all’evocazione dei primitivi (San Francesco, Dante, 
Leonardo da Vinci, Ghirlandaio, ecc), la quale conferisce un forte significato 
personale a questa “favola d’antica poesia”, si avverte una dimensione religiosa 
nell’esperienza poetica della contemplazione del paesaggio: di una religiosita 


?° Cosi in Faenza, oppure a proposito degli zingari in Dualismo [...], personaggi 
caratteristici non solo per il loro nomadismo, ma anche per la loro armonia con il mondo 
naturale. 





Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 271 


originaria, legata al sentimento di armonia che il poeta esperimenta 
nell’immensita di un paesaggio infinito, legata a un sentirsi fibra dell’universo, 
che riscattera il poeta dalla sua condizione alienata (Passeggiata in tram [...]}). 
Questa esperienza, base della purificazione interiore che il lettore avverte in 
questa prosa, contrasta fortemente con |’ambiente di una umanita degradata 
presente in tanti altri momenti dell’opera campaniana (si veda, per esempio, 
Firenze). Tale contrasto si articola seguendo la polarita caratteristica delle 
poetiche fin-de-siécle fra purezza-virginita / degradazione-corruzione. La stessa 
polarita verra tematizzata sub specie letteraria prendendo come base la lezione 
dantesca in Immagini del viaggio e della montagna (componimento che 
conclude, non a caso, con un cenno all’ /nferno di Dante, IV, 81). 

Strettamente collegata a La Verna appare, pit tardi, una altra prosa 
fondamentale in Campana: Pampa, dove il poeta riprende il motivo francescano 
di un’esperienza mistica della natura,’ e dove riappare provvisoriamente lo 
stesso sentimento di quiete interiore e armonia. Cid nonostante, |’effetto, per 
cosi dire, balsamico della pampa non verra solo collegato alla contemplazione 
della natura e a questo sentirsi fibra dell’universo, che si fa ben presente in 
questo caso, ma pure una ripresa del mito delle origini, che si manifesta in 
questo spazio disabitato, allo stesso tempo “buono” e “selvaggio”. Non si 
esclude una lettura psicanalitica del motivo, quale regressione a un impossibile 
utero materno (specialmente per Campana, ma in genere per il poeta moderno, 
quale sentimento interiore di esilio). Con tutto cid, resta indubbio il referente di 
Nietzsche, e in modo particolare del suo Cosi parlé Zarathustra, in modo 
particolare in Pampa.” 

Il ritratto del poeta errante e notturno era gia ben presente in Baudelaire, sia 
nei Poémes en prose (Le désir de peindre), sia nell’ opera in versi dell’autore.* 
In ambedue i casi veniva sviluppato il tema del vagare perpetuo, fondamentale 
in una delle pid note immagini di sé stesso che ci offre il poeta francese: 
L’Albatros, continuata pit tardi dal poema Elévation e La voix (Spleen et Idéal). 
Il viaggio come ricerca dell’Ideale, e cioé con una dimensione fortemente 
utopica, é nettamente baudelairiano e caratteristico degli inizi della modernita 
letteraria (basta citare, per esempio, la sua prosa poetica Anywhere Out of the 
World). Cosi si pud constatare nell’opera di Baudelaire, cosi come in quella del 


30 «_] gettato sull’erba vergine, in faccia alle strane costellazioni io mi andavo 
abbandonando tutto ai misteriosi giuochi dei loro arabeschi, cullato deliziosamente dai 
rumori attutiti del bivacco” (Campana 1973, I, 69). 

3! Sarebbe interessante a questo punto rilevare le abbondanti e significative reminiscenze 
di Nietzsche nell’opera di Campana, un tema che richiederebbe, perd, uno studio pit 
approfondito (Si veda anche Turchetta, La cultura di Dino Campana 1985). 

32 Per esempio, in Le vin de |’assassin, riappare il parallelismo fra il poeta e il cane 
randagio, oppure in Le cygne e in Quadres parisiens presentano il carattere di 
un’allegoria moderna o vuota. 


272 Assumpta Camps 


marradese, una simile valutazione positiva degli zingari (Bohémiens en voyage), 
e una stessa visione del viaggio come fuga dal reale per |’anima irrequieta del 
poeta,’ e del mare come spazio di liberta (L’homme et la mer). Da qui il 
significato che prende nella sua opera, come é ben noto, del resto, il motivo 
ricorrente della nave.” 

L’affinita di impostazione del tema del viaggio in Baudelaire e Campana si 
avverte anche non solo nella sua dimensione di ricerca dell’Ideale e di fuga 
dall’alienazione presente nel reale, ma in altri aspetti molto pid concreti, che 
pongono in rilievo, per esempio, il forte carattere esotico e la ricchezza 
sensoriale dell’ambiente portuale di certe citta, cosi pieno di vita e ripieno di 
prodotti di oltremare.** Rimbaud condivide la stessa visione del viaggio-fuga, 
caratteristica della visione del poeta quale figura errante (vedi, per esempio, la 
sua fantasia poetica che ha per titolo Ma bohéme). Con tutto cid, al di la di 
questa affinita, resta pur vero che nella bohéme del maledettismo rimbaldiano 
Campana trovera un referente letterario di prim’ordine, con un complemento 
importante: il sentimento di nostalgia delle origini e di ricerca della purezza 
primigenia legato al tema del viaggio.*° Questo tema acquista una funzionalita 
esegetica piu alta nell’opera di Campana, dove il viaggio, anche se si presenta 
come fuga dal reale, non raggiunge il valore utopico tipicamente baudelairiano. 
Si tratta, piuttosto, di un viaggio come purificazione interiore, che evidenzia il 
sostanziale francescanesimo campaniano, ben presente in molti momenti,’” e 
persino la dimensione visionaria del poeta in altri casi, quale via alternativa per 
una fuga dal reale, intrapresa attraverso la visione delirante (vedi Le bateau ivre, 
e Marine). Da non dimenticare, perd, che la nostalgia delle origini presenta in 
Rimbaud un valore di critica del presente e del progresso alienante, acquistando 
una dimensione per momenti mitologica, del tutto estranea a Campana.”® 

I] tema del poeta errante é determinante nel referente rimbaldiano dell’opera 
di Campana. In questo senso, vanno ricordati Un séjour en enfer, e 
particolarmente Mauvais sang e Délires (I e II), cosi come J/luminations, 
particolarmente in Vagabonds e Soir historique. Illuminations si chiude, del 
resto, con la prosa poetica Génie, dove si stabilisce nettamente la connessione 


3 Si veda L ‘invitation au voyage 0 Moesta et errabunda, in Spleen et idéal, oppure Le 
voyage, della serie “La mort”. 

** Cosi, per esempio, gli stessi componimenti suindicati, completati da Le beau navire, 
che sviluppa lo stesso senso di avventura e di fuga, e da Un voyage en Cythére, sempre 
con l’idea del viaggio come ricerca dell’ Ideale. 

*° Si vedano L'inviation au voyage, oppure Le port, strettamente collegato con Parfum 
exotique e persino con La chevelure, in Spleen et idéal. 

°° Vanno ricordati in questo senso Départ, in Illuminations, e soprattutto Délires (Ie II) e 
L’impossible, in Un séjour[...], un volume che riassume le varie connotazioni che prende 
il viaggio in Rimbaud. 

>” Per esempio, il poema Sensation. 

38 Si veda il lungo componimento Soleil et chair, nelle sue varie parti. 





Viaggio e esilio in Dino Campana: per un’ermeneutica della sua opera 273 


fra bohéme e condizione sociale del poeta moderno, che echeggia in Campana.” 
Da quanto precedentemente indicato, sembrano indubbi i rapporti 
privilegiati che Campana stabilisce con la poesia francese del secondo Ottocento 
e il rinnovamento profondo che questo dialogo intertestuale comportera sia nella 
sua opera che all’interno della tradizione lirica italiana. Al di 1a di altre 
reminiscenze non solo evidenti ma certamente molto rilevanti per l’esegesi 
dell’?opera campaniana (facciamo riferimento a Nietzsche o Whitman, per 
esempio), e al di 1a dell’esistenza indubbia di una koiné simbolista-decadentista 
dove coincidono tutti questi autori e nella quale si diffonde uno stesso 
immaginario poetico (e artistico, in linee generali), vanno messe in rilievo le 
allusioni esplicite o velate, le citazioni a memoria, i cenni di vario tipo agli 
autori francesi che emergono nell’insieme dell’opera del marradese. E proprio 
all’interno di questa linea interpretativa che prende corpo e significato il tema 
fondamentale del viaggio in Campana, insieme al sentimento che lo nutre, e cioé 
l’esilio interiore del poeta. Tale esilio, di base indubbiamente biografica nel caso 
di Campana, si presenta all’interno di un processo di trasformazione in 
letteratura della propria vita, nel quale si intersecano le suggestioni di 
provenienza diversa e le pluricitazioni simultanee. Al vagabondaggio 
esistenziale e spaziale del poeta-errante, “chétif trouvére” come si 
autorrappresenta, corrisponde un simile vagabondaggio di letture varie 
caratterizzate dalla loro asistematicita e allo stesso tempo onnipresenza. Sara 
proprio questa, e non altra, la vera patria interiore dell’esule che é€ stato 

Campana. 
Universita di Barcellona 


Opere citate 


AA.VV., Materiali per Dino Campana, a c. di P. Cudini, Lucca, Maria Pacini Fazzi 
editore, 1986. 
AA.VV., Dino Campana oggi, Atti del convegno su Campana, Firenze 18/19 marzo 1973, 
Firenze, Vallecchi, 1973. 
Barberi Squarotti, Giorgio, Gli inferi e il labirinto. Da Pascoli a Montale, Bologna, 
Cappelli, 1975 (prima Mito e realta in Campana, “La Situazione”, XIII-XIV, feb.- 
apr. 1960). 
, San Francesco nella poesia di Dino Campana, in AA.VV., San Francesco e il 
francescanismo nella letteratura italiana del novecento, Roma, Bulzoni, 1983, 183- 
98. 
Baudelaire, Charles, Petits poémes en prose (Le Spleen de Paris), préface et 
commentaires de Pierre-Louis Rey, Paris, Pocket, 1995. 
, Oeuvres completes, 2 vols., texte établi, présénté et annoté par C. Pichois, Paris, 


3° Cosi anche in alcuni altri suoi componimenti poetici: Sensation, Au Cabaret-vert, cing 
heures du soir, La maline, Ma Boheme. 


274 Assumpta Camps 


Gallimard (La Pléiade), 1975-1976. 
Bonaffini, Luigi, La poesia visionaria di D. Campana, Irsenia, Marinelli, 1980. 
Bonifazi, Neuro, Dino Campana, Roma, Edizioni dell’ Ateneo, 1978. 
Briosi, Sandro, L'orfismo visivo di Dino Campana, “Studi Romagnoli”, XXXIII, 1981, 
127-45. 
Campana, Dino, Opere e contributi, ac. di E. Falqui, Firenze, Valecchi, 1973, 2 voll. 
, Le mie lettere sono fatte per essere bruciate, a c. di G. Cacho Millet, Milano, 
All’Insegna del Pesce d’Oro, 1978. 
, Carteggio con Sibilla Aleramo, ac. di N. Gallo, Firenze, Vallecchi, 1958. 
Camps, Assumpta, “God/dog”, il poeta randagio (per uno studio dell’opera di Dino 
Campana), “Galleria. Rassegna Quadrimestrale di Cultura” (Roma), XX XXIV, set- 
dic. 1994, Fasc. 3, 16-22. 
Del Serra, Maura, L ‘immagine aperta. Poetica e stilistica dei “Canti Orfici”, Firenze, La 
Nuova Italia, 1973. 
Falqui, Enrico, Per una storia del rapporto tra Nietzsche e Campana, “La Fiera 
letteraria”, 14-VI-1953, 5-6. 
Galimberti, Cesare, Sulla formazione di Campana, in Dino Campana, Milano, Mursia, 
1967. 
Ladron de Guevara, Pedro Luis, Dino Campana (Un poeta italiano del siglo XX, entre lo 
“maudit” y la esquizofrenia), Murcia, Universidad de Murcia, 1990. 
Luzi, Mario, A/ di qua e al di la dell’elegia, in Campana, Opere e contributi, vol. I (anche 
in Vicissitudine e forma, Milano, Rizzoli, 1974). 
Maggi, Mario, La notte campaniana tra allucinazione e ricordo, in “Esperienze 
letterarie”, gen.-marz. 1985, 49-62. 
Mazza, Riccardo, La forza, il nulla, la chimera: saggio su Dino Campana, Roma, Istituto 
Enciclopedia Italiana, 1986. 
Muzzioli, Francesco, // problema dell’Allegoria in Campana, “Allegoria”’, n. 10, 1992, 
29-57. 
Petrucciani, Mario, [potesi per Campana: Lucrezio, una sinestesia la farfalla, “Studi 
urbinati”, 1-2, XLV, 1971, 991-96. 
Ramat, Silvio, Note ai “Canti orfici’”, in Campana, Opere e contributi, ac. di M. Luzi, D. 
De Robertis, S. Ramat & N. Gallo, Firenze, Vallecchi, 1973, vol. I. 
L’intenzione regressiva dei “Canti Orfici”, in Storia della poesia italiana del 
Novecento, Milano, Mursia, 1982, 115-28. 
Rimbaud, Arthur, Oeuvres poétiques, texte établi, présénté et annoté par A. Adam, Paris, 
Gallimard (La Pléiade), 1972. 
Sanguineti, Edoardo, Introduzione a Edoardo Sanguineti, Poesia del Novecento, Torino, 
Einaudi, 1969. 
Turchetta, Gianni, Dino Campana, biografia di un poeta, Milano, Marcos & Marcos, 1985. 
, Cultura di D. Campana e significati dei “Canti Orfici”, “Comunita”, 1985, n. 





187, 359-417. 
, Saggezza e follia in Dino Campana, poeta, “Ca’ de sass”, n. 101, maggio 1988, 
14-18. 
Vasalli, Silvio, La notte della cometa (Il romanzo di D. Campana), Torino, Einaudi, 
1984. 


Verlaine, Paul, Oeuvres compleétes, texte établi, présénté et annoté par Y. G. Le Dantec, 
Paris, Gallimard (La Pléiade), 1954. 





Annunziata O. Campa 


Utopia e disincanto: 
l’esilio degli intellettuali spagnoli 
nella diaspora della Guerra Civile 


A partire dalla Generazione del °98,' la prima generazione di intellettuali 
spagnoli che manifesta una perspicace coscienza del suo ruolo di avanguardia 
politico-sociale, il concetto di intelligentsia esprime un/attitudine critica e 
indipendente e disegna il profilo del pensatore dialettico nei confronti 
dell’ ordine stabilito. 

L’intellettuale militante, nel veder liquidato quello straordinario patrimonio 
di energie, uomini e idealita, quel progetto di ispirazione orteghiana rivolto 
all’educazione civile, va alla ricerca di nuove prospettive e di costruirsi un 
itinerario futuro ai suoi interessi. L’improvvido e forzoso esilio, che genera una 
nuova situazione geografica ed esistenziale, lo costringe a una pil rigorosa 
meditazione sulla Spagna e sulla sua identita.’ 

Negli anni della guerra civile spagnola,” gli intellettuali contrappongono al 
fallimento del governo provvisorio della Seconda Repubblica, una testimonianza 
umana e morale, ovvero impegno sociale e civile, che prevale su un 
annientamento estremo.* Le ragioni delle loro convinzioni politiche risiedono 


ice 


Quella che per consuetudine ormai canonica viene chiamata ‘generazione del ’98’ é€ 
una realta assai pi’ che una ‘generazione’: é un largo movimento di opinione che ha il 
suo stimolo episodico nel ‘disastro’ del 1898, cioé nell’ultima dura sconfitta subita 
dall’imperialismo spagnolo a Cuba (una sconfitta suggellata appunto dal trattato di Parigi 
del ’98 e dalla perdita di quella estrema colonia americana), e che trova il suo sostegno 
ideologico in un solido gruppo di letterati e di uomini di cultura, i quali si sentono tutti 
investiti della dura problematica della societa spagnola” (D. Puccini, Romancero della 
resistenza spagnola 1936-1965, Bari, Laterza, 1970, p, 23). 

2 José Luis Abellan e Antonio Monclus (ed.), E/ pensamiento espanol contemporaneo y 
la idea de América. El pensamiento en el exilio (Barcelona, Anthropos, 1989), 2 :10; 
Fernando de los Rios, Sentido y significacién de Espafia (México, 1945); Francisco 
Ayala, Conciencia de Espafia (Buenos Aires, 1947). 

> La guerra civile spagnola (1936-39) fu un evento per molti aspetti cruciale, tale da 
rappresentare un essenziale punto di riferimento per la comprensione della storia dell’eta 
contemporanea europea. 

“ Come esempio di belligeranza intellettuale si pud menzionare La Barraca. Questa 
compagnia di teatro itinerante, creata da Federico Garcia Lorca, spezzava il monopolio 
culturale che deteneva la borghesia conservatrice. Essa la vedeva come uno strumento 
popolare affiancata da un gruppo di intellettuali politicamente militanti che combatteva 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


276 Annunziata O. Campa 


nella consapevolezza degli sviluppi e della centralita di una cultura democratica 
nell’Europa occidentale.” Gli sforzi compiuti dall’élite intellettuale, al fine di 
inserirsi nel processo di consolidamento di una nuova civilta politica, fanno 
sentire i loro effetti sin dai primi anni del conflitto. 

Sebbene gli eventi di natura bellica determinino generalmente |’esodo di 
masse operaie e contadine, non era mai accaduto prima degli anni della guerra 
civile che un considerevole numero di noti politici e di intellettuali dissidenti di 
ideologia repubblicana fosse costretto ad abbandonare il paese — o lo avesse 
fatto per propria volonta — durante l’avanzata delle truppe nazionaliste e 
anche nell’immediato dopoguerra. 

Per il “ritorno all’ordine”, propugnato dal regime franchista durante 
l’assedio, era necessario silenziare la voce degli intellettuali. La repressione di 
ogni dissidenza era dunque un imperativo inerente alla natura del fascismo 
spagnolo “fondato oltreché sul predominio di classe, sulla coartazione del 
consenso”.° In tale momento storico gli intellettuali, quali sostenitori di 
un’ideologia libertaria, si rivolgono verso se stessi, e ricercano nella propria 
formazione, nell’eredita culturale ricevuta, la causa della loro esclusione dalla 
storia, alla quale non rinunciano e della quale sono stati protagonisti. 
Nell’intento di propiziare una trasformazione all’arcaicita politica, sociale ed 
economica della Spagna e di introdurre nel popolo quelle istituzioni 
democratiche, che le nazioni moderne inalberavano come segno di superiorita, 
essi si impegnano nella lotta contro le resistenze antagoniste. 

L’esilio come sradicamento e confinamento appare garante del passaggio 
dei valori, dal passato al futuro, e diviene nel presente storico un’occasione 
eccezionale di riscatto civile, da attuarsi nella dimensione della belligeranza 
ideologica e sulla scia della solidarieta. Dal tentativo di svolgere un’efficace 
azione dialettica e dialogica con il passato ne scaturisce uno sguardo 
retrospettivo quale segno tangibile di un impegno assunto, un atto di 
riappropriazione del proprio destino. 





per la causa della giustizia e della liberta. Nonostante l’opposizione delle varie fazioni 
politiche, la Barraca procedeva impavida la sua missione proselitista. L’Universita era il 
baluardo della resistenza contro la dittatura e le forze reazionarie; i professori 
stimolavano il culto della liberta davanti a un regime oppressore e avevano preferito la 
loro incondizionata adesione alle idee sociali e perfino l’esilio. I] poeta Garcia Lorca era 
pienamente conscio dei doveri dell’intellettuale e in quel particolare momento politico 
non esita a compromettersi. Il gesto estremo della repressione determind la sua 
fucilazione (19 agosto 1936). 

* Sul ruolo della cultura europea nel concorso della politica mondiale hanno dedicato 
ampie riflessioni i filosofi spagnoli del tempo quali Miguel de Unamuno, Sobre la 
europeizacion (1906), Maria Zambrano, La agonia de Europa (1945) e José Ortega y 
Gasset, Meditacién de Europa (1949). 

® Ubaldo Bardi, Federico Garcia Lorca (Firenze, Provincia di Firenze, 1978), p. 3. 


L’esilio degli intellettuali spagnoli nella diaspora della Guerra Civile 277 


La spirale dell’esilio: i segni di una utopia 

Nella visione di una realta incalzante e sempre pil compromissoria si affaccia la 
premonizione del “destierro” e |’intellettuale rivoluzionario, logorato dallo 
spettro degli autoritarismi europei, superstite delle ceneri della Seconda 
Repubblica, da una parte, ricompone gli schemi di una utopia e, dall’altra, 
appare condannato a una defezione inesorabile.’ II militante appare dunque 
come |’incarnazione estrema del suo attivismo e delle sue contraddizioni. Non 
sara pil’ prevalentemente homo ideologicus, ma spinto dal delirio costruttivista 
del tempo diverra homo faber: voleva edificare un mondo piu giusto e ne é stato 
divorato, con esiti sideralmente lontani dal progetto originario. Figura doppia e 
tragica, oscilla continuamente tra “generosita  storica” e contraccolpi 
organizzativi, tra aspirazioni libertarie e sottomissioni laceranti, tra 
emancipazione collettiva e umiliazione dell’individualita. L’ordine che ne 
scaturisce @ distante da quell’idealismo utopico quale premessa della felicita; 
consiste piuttosto nella “normalita dell’azione repressiva”, quel repertorio di 
carcere, deportazioni, delazioni, repressioni: una realta che nessuna revisione 
storica pud occultare né ridimensionare. 

E nella contrapposizione, tra i fini desiderati e i mezzi utilizzati, tra 
premesse ideali ed esiti reali, che annida la tragica ambivalenza del pensatore 
impegnato politicamente. La sua antropologia ¢ segnata dal rovesciamento dei 
valori e l’identita sovversiva e |’autonomia della liberta umana sono dissolte 
nella gestione autoritaria del potere. L’ideologia progressista non é pit il 
retaggio di un passato sopravvissuto nella modernita: € incarnazione della 
modernita stessa. 


L’esilio: distanziamento e re-integrazione 

Lo studio sulle peculiari caratteristiche dell’esilio degli intellettuali spagnoli 
richiederebbe un approccio multidisciplinare in quanto il fenomeno non si 
definisce solo come scambio tra cultura madre e culture dei paesi che ospitano 
— il pid delle volte definitivamente — lesule, ma come coesistenza di aspetti 
distinti mediante accostamenti e analogie. L’esilio spagnolo va esaminato 
dunque, non solo sotto la prospettiva storicistica, ma anche attraverso diversi 
profili culturali: letterario sociologico, psicologico e filosofico. 


7 T1 28 marzo 1939 il generale Francisco Franco, dirigendosi verso Madrid, esige la resa 
senza condizioni. Da questo momento gli ultimi elementi di quello che era stato il 
governo repubblicano della Spagna si sbandano. La repressione é violenta. Si susseguono 
epurazioni, denunce, arresti, fucilazioni. Nelle prigioni vengono rinchiusi migliaia di 
prigionieri: la maggior parte in attesa di esecuzioni. Fra questi vi sono i capi dei partiti, 
gli intellettuali, come il poeta Miguel Hernandez. Questi riesce a raggiungere il 
Portogallo, ma la polizia di Salazar lo consegna agli spagnoli. Viene rinchiuso nel carcere 
di Torrijo, a Madrid, e poi in quello di Alicante dove la malattia e le privazioni dettano la 
sua morte. 


278 Annunziata O. Campa 


L’esule tende a ristabilire l’equilibrio perduto, a stimolare elementi 
endogeni e introdurne degli estranei al fine di ritrovare nel vissuto la originaria 
armonia. Tale compensazione lo riconduce a una posizione adeguata, a una 
autoregolazione della percezione e della psiche. L’identita e la congiunzione 
degli opposti — il noto e l’ignoto — significano la percezione simultanea, 
tramite le prospettive della vita e della morte, del naturale e dello psichico. In tal 
senso l’esperienza diventa una nuova e particolare unione di punti di vista 
interni. L’attenzione psicologica enfatizza i meccanismi della memoria e il 
ricordo é pili deleterio di quanto non sia il dimenticare, attraverso cui gli eventi 
traumatici della involontaria rinuncia si trasformano, uscendo dalla vita 
personale, sgomberandola e generando inediti orizzonti. Per l’esule avere 
memoria non é solo riscatto, ma necessita di un “presente ampio”, cosi da 
contenere quel che é stato accantonato nelle zone d’ombra dello spazio e del 
tempo. 

L’esilio, come impellente costrizione o scelta coatta, si trasforma dunque in 
un viaggio della coscienza verso l’ignoto. E cosi, il luogo dell’esilio rende 
consapevole, attraverso la totale estraneita, il distacco delle cose e degli altri, 
l’incertezza del destino nel futuro. Si compie allora, in un campo di forze che si 
espellono e si attraggono, nei termini di un distanziamento e di una virtuale re- 
integrazione, la rivelazione della patria. 

Ecco che in primo luogo, nelle opere relative alla “cultura dell’esilio”, si 
ravvisa una specificita che non mostra il segno di un carattere periferico, ma 
rimane ancorata nell’orbita della cultura originaria. Cosi il poeta Leon Felipe si 
esprime: 


Yo no soy mas que una voz 

la tuya, la de todos 

[...]. La voz de Espafia que hoy se articula en mi garganta como 
pudo articularse en otra cualquiera.* 


In nome di una concreta vocazione, la produzione culturale dell’esilio si 
presenta come una pit intensa continuazione della tradizione letteraria, capace 
di estendersi altrove. Una creativita che nonostante sia il riflesso di una realta 
scritturale vissuta al di la delle frontiere, rivela inoltre un’ampia gamma di 
tematiche, di connessioni con il passato e un’evoluzione del linguaggio e del 
pensiero. 


® Questo poema di guerra di Leén Felipe, “La insignia-Alocucién poematica”, in Gabriele 
Morelli (ed.), La voce antica della terra (Milano, Accademia, 1973), p. 264, composto 
nel 1937 e declamato a Valencia e al Coliseum di Barcellona, suona come segno di 
premonizione e di incitamento. A questo grido di dolore seguirono le pubblicazioni in 
esilio del El hacha (1939) e Espanol del éxodo y del llanto (1939). 





L’esilio degli intellettuali spagnoli nella diaspora della Guerra Civile 279 


Rispetto alla fase rivoluzionaria, la condizione e |’organizzazione della 
cultura in esilio subiscono inevitabili mutamenti, ma l’impegno civile continua a 
misurarsi con i valori e gli scopi dei processi culturali e il rapporto con una 
nuova realta segna |’obbligatorieta inequivocabile di rivalutarne i requisiti della 
loro utilita e del loro sucesso.” “Crear la conciencia de la etapa histérica que 
esta a punto de cuajar [consiste in ] ordenar — scrive Ayala — las jerarquias del 
espiritu en el andamiaje de la nueva sociedad y orientarla hacia valores 
firmes.”'° 

L’attivita degli intellettuali, pur registrando momenti di ripiegamento 
intimista, retaggio dell’espressione romantica, esercita un complessivo impegno 
sociale e morale. “Al margen del grado de integracién alcanzado, para el 
‘verdadero exiliado’, la dimensién politica — afferma Romero Samper — se 
convierte asi en su primera raz6n de ser, en una sefia de identidad a la que no 
cabe, por tanto, renunciar.”"! 

La susseguente e graduale disgregazione degli intellettuali e il 
soggettivismo dell’epoca delle “contrapposizioni ideologiche” tendono ad 
attenuarsi e a essere sostituiti da uno spirito collettivo, da un’autocoscienza di 
classe. Ritorna cosi il mito di una “Repubblica delle lettere” in grado di dar 
inizio a un risorgimento ideale al di la delle competenze specifiche e della 
singola estrazione politica. I] ruolo dell’ intellettuale si costituisce cosi sulla base 
di una prospettiva critica e alternativa nei confronti del regime che li aveva 
sopraffatti. 

L’attivita culturale dei rifugiati, quali Emilio Prados, José Gaos, Xavier 
Zubiri, Maria Zambrano, Américo Castro, Rafael Dieste e tanti altri,'? 


° In Spagna I’editoria aveva conosciuto un periodo di crisi, dovuto all’azione repressiva 
della censura, alla conseguente scelta di privilegiare libri di devozione, all’isolamento 
della cultura spagnola rispetto al resto dell’Europa e quindi al restringimento del pubblico 
che derivava da questi fattori. 

'0 Francisco Ayala, La cabeza del cordero (Buenos Aires, Losada,1953), p. 15. 

'! Milagrosa Romero Samper, “Analisis del éxodo y actividad politica” in L. De Llera 
Esteban (ed.), El ultimo exilio espanol en América (Madrid, Mapfre, 1996), p. 22. 

'2 Fra l’estate del 1938 e i primi mesi del 1939 giungono in Messico i membri che 
costituiranno la Casa de Espafia e gli invitati speciali del Presidente Lazaro Cardenas, 
come il giurista Recaséns Siches, i poeti Leén Felipe, Luis Cernuda, i critici e poeti José 
Moreno Villa, Enrique Diez-Canedo e José Domenchina, i filosofi José Gaos, Joaquin 
Xirau, lo storico e avvocato José Maria Ots Capdequi, gli scrittori Emilio Prados, Rafael 
Dieste, Benjamin Jarnés, Rafael Sanchez de Ocajfia, José Carner, |’endocrinologo 
Rodendo Carrasco Formiguera, lo scienziato José Giral (che diventa il presidente del 
governo in esilio), il medico Aurelio Romero Lozano e il politico Indalesio Prieto. Molti 
si trasferiscono in Argentina, come Américo Castro, José Ortega y Gasset, Claudio 
Sanchez Albornéz, Gregorio Marafién, Juan Ramén Jiménez, nella Repubblica 
Domenicana, come Fernando de los Rios, in Francia, come Manuel Azafia e Francisco 
Largo Caballero, in Cile Rafael Alberti e Maria Teresa Leon e in Italia Jorge Guillén; si 


280 Annunziata O. Campa 


costituisce cosi |’esempio sublime, non solo della rielaborazione di una perdita 
— la “cultura recuperata” — bensi di una “cultura aggiunta”. Risultava tuttavia 
difficile per essi crearsi un punto di vista e una prospettiva, rispetto alle memorie 
oscure e inquietanti del recente passato; si trattava piuttosto di non interrompere 
il processo creativo e di costruirsi una autonomia espressiva propria sulla 
condizione di esuli, in un’operazione di riscatto e appropriazione, ove la 
memoria nel tempo attuava come mediatrice tra il vivere e il pensare’’. 

E facile comprendere come nel primo ciclo di questo processo storico, le 
illusioni perdute esasperino le incertezze del traversare terre sconosciute e 
paesaggi insoliti. “Las tensiones que causa cualquier partida inopinada [...], la 
inseguridad, la inserci6n en otras costumbres [...] — asserisce Mario Benedetti 
— son elementos generadores de angustias, malestares, y hasta de 
resentimientos y rencores”. Ma il compito primordiale e legittimo che “tiene un 
escritor del exilio — ribadisce lo studioso uruguaiano — es con la literatura que 
integra, con la cultura de su pais. Tiene que reivindicar su condicién de escritor, 
y a pesar de todos los desalientos, las frustraciones, las adversidades, buscar el 
modo de seguir escribiendo.”"* 


vedano Nicolas Sanchez Albornéz, El destierro espafiol en América, un transvase 
cultural (Madrid, Sociedad Estatal. Quinto Centenario-Instituto de Cooperacién 
Iberoamericana, 1989); Gregorio Marafién, Espafoles fuera de Espafia (Madrid, Espasa 
Calpe, 1968); J. Andrés-Gallego, Luis de Llera, José Velarde, Nazario Gonzalez, Espafia 
actual. La Guerra civil (1936-1939), (Madrid, Gredos, 1989) e Patricia Fagen, 
Transterrados y ciudadanos (México, Fondo de Cultura Econémica, 1975). Il termine 
“transterrado” fu introdotto da José Gaos volendo affermare il concetto di 
multiculturalita, concetto che viene ripreso successivamente dai filosofi messicani José 
Vasconcelos nella sua teorizzazione in Nacion de las Naciones en la raza de las razas e 
da Leopoldo Zea in Raza césmica. 

'3 Queste due connotazioni dell’impegno intellettuale sono colte rispettivamente da opere 
significative, quali Los cipreces creen en Dios di José Maria Gironella (Barcelona, 1953); 
La cabeza de cordero di Francisco Ayala (Buenos Aires, 1949), Filosofia y poesia di 
Maria Zambrano (México-Morelia, Publicaciones de la Universidad Michoacana, 1939; e 
l’edizione corretta dall’autrice: México, Fondo de Cultura Econémica, 1987) e, sempre 
della Zambrano, Pensamiento y poesia en la vida espahola (México, La Casa de Espafia, 
1939: cito dal volume pubblicato dalle Ediciones Endymion, Madrid 1996). La filosofa 
aveva disegnato attraverso le sue molteplici attivita di saggista e di critica letteraria fra il 
1928 e 1939 una rigorosa rivisitazione del liberalismo, dell’idealismo crociano e del 
sindacalismo soreliano (Horizonte del liberalismo 0 Nuevo liberalismo, Madrid, Morata, 
1930; la seconda edizione contiene uno studio introduttivo di Jesis Moreno Sanz, 
Morata, Madrid 1996). Aveva anche compreso e denunciato il precario e radicale 
equilibrio dell’intellettuale in Spagna e in Europa (Los intelectuales en el drama de 
Espafa, Santiago de Chile, Panorama, 1937; ripubblicato per i tipi di Hispamérica, 
Madrid 1977 e 1979 e poi in Senderos, Barcelona, Anthropos, 1998 e da Trotta. Madrid, 
1998 con Escritos de la guerra civil a cura di Jesus Moreno Sanz). 

'* Mario Benedetti, El desexilio y otras conjeturas (Madrid, El Pais, 1984), p. 11. 


L’esilio degli intellettuali spagnoli nella diaspora della Guerra Civile 281 


La visione della nuova realta si traduce, in campo letterario e filosofico, in 
un’estetica anticlassicistica, in una poetica della metafora e in una rivisitazione 
dei postulati del pitt genuino umanesimo. Prevale allora la tendenza al 
rinnovamento: un procedimento che concettualizzi i rapporti sottili esistenti fra 
uomini di culture diverse. Una prassi che nell’attivita di un’intelligenza arguta 
rende possibile accostamenti di dissonanze, di enigmi e di contraddizioni. 
L’intellettuale si rivela come colui che é in grado di scoprire i legami misteriosi 
esistenti fra i vari campi della realta e i fenomeni pit diversi, rendendoli per la 
prima volta “visibili”. 

Alla prima fase del risentimento e della nostalgia segue la razionalita 
all’adattamento e |’apertura a un dialogo stimolante con il passato — la stagione 
della cultura felice — e infine la possibilita del ritorno. 


L’esilio e il pensiero filosofico di Maria Zambrano 
I contorni di una determinata condizione storica acquistano i tratti di una sui 
generis consapevolezza ideologica e culturale nella larga messe di scritti dei 
rifugiati in America Latina, negli Stati Uniti, in Francia e in Italia. Ne risulta un 
quadro caleidoscopico che va dalla tonalita personale nel sentire l’esilio, allo 
stato pil: denso e intimamente conchiuso. 

Maria Zambrano’®, una delle pensatrici pit’ rappresentative del Novecento 
spagnolo, si impone all’attenzione della storia del pensiero filosofico occidentale 


'© Maria Zambrano (Vélez-Malaga 1904-Madrid 1991). Ancor prima della presa di 
Barcellona del 26 gennaio 1939, in campo repubblicano, quale che sia l’importanza 
strategica della capitale catalana, la disfatta psicologica é totale; decine di migliaia di 
leaders dei partiti, intellettuali, mutilati, combattenti, vecchi, donne e bambini fuggono in 
Francia, passando il confine. Raggruppati e internati dalle autorita francesi, si 
ammucchiano a Argelés, a Prats-de Mollo e a Saint-Cyprien in campi recintati e in 
baracche di legno. All’inizio di questo tragico esodo, il 6 gennaio 1939, la Zambrano 
raggiunge il piccolo paesino di Salses nella frontiera francese, abbandonando cosi la 
Spagna per un lungo esilio che durera quarantacinque anni. Nello stesso giorno anche il 
poeta Antonio Machado si avvia verso la frontiera e riesce ad arrivare a Callioure, ma 
non riesce a sopportare il grave disagio e muore di li a poco, il 22 febbraio. Altri 
personaggi prendono la via dell’esilio, come il presidente Azafia che il 7 febbraio si trova 
in Francia assieme ai rifugiati. La filosofa, come tutti gli altri, paga cosi la sua adesione 
alla fede repubblicana, che aveva rappresentato per i movimenti studenteschi e per gli 
intellettuali una forza organizzatrice per sostenere rivendicazioni politiche e sociali. Dopo 
un breve soggiorno a Citta del Messico e a La Habana si trasferisce a Morelia (Messico) 
dove le viene conferito l’incarico di insegnamento di Storia della Filosofia. La sua 
permanenza a Morelia é interrotta, nel 1950, per far ritorno in Francia in occasione della 
morte della madre, accolta con profondo dolore. Dopo un soggiorno di due anni in 
Messico, nel 1953 decide di stabilirsi in Italia, dove vive fino al 1964. L’umile e sereno 
ambiente romano stimola la filosofa a completare la sua autobiografia, Delirio y destino, 
e a dedicarsi a pi profondi impegni filosofici fra i quali spicca la stesura di Filosofia y 


282 Annunziata O. Campa 


per le sue peculiari speculazioni sull’essere come oggetto della storia. I] suo 
metodo filosofico si presenta come un sistema di riflessioni sull’etica del 
pensiero e sulla rinascita di una nuova concezione della filosofia della storia. 
L’impegno vitale della Zambrano nei confronti della Spagna, tra il 1928 e il 
1939, la porta all’elaborazione di uno strumento teorico che mette in crisi la 
cognizione della ragione e il compromesso dell’intellettuale con la sua realta. 
Nella cornice di una critica al razionalismo e all’idealismo, la Zambrano vede la 
ragione contemporanea paralizzata e inservibile di fronte alla tragedia del XX 
secolo. E ipotizza — _ nel constatare il fallimento della modernita in Spagna 
rispetto ai canoni europei di Stato, Riforma e Razionalismo — il nuovo ruolo 
dell’intellettuale, alla ricerca di una nuova ragione che propizi la nascita di una 
cultura e di una morale anch’esse nuove. Per la filosofa, 1l’intellettuale 
dell’epoca romantica della guerra agisce solo come “commissario politico”, 
ritraendosi dalla consapevolezza del momento storico. In questo contesto di 
belligeranza delle lettere e della ragione, la pensatrice fa emergere il concetto di 
una “ragione militante”: una ragione concreta e antiidealista, che porta a mettere 
in questione il rapporto tra I’intellettuale e il potere. 

Si tratta di un’intelligenza combattiva, in difesa della cultura, quella che 
caratterizza la ragione militante concepita dalla Zambrano. Per costei il 
compromesso dell’intellettuale @ quello di agire con la parola, di renderla 
sovversiva e€ meccanismo privilegiato di trasformazione ideologica della realta. 
Per l’intellettuale militante repubblicano ogni arte doveva inesorabilmente 
costituire uno strumento di lotta. 

Senza spogliare la “razén armada” del suo contenuto primigenio, la 
Zambrano intraprende una singolare riflessione sulla Storia e sulla Poesia. 
Riportando sul piano della storia la ragione come poiesis, opera una inedita 
ipostasi tra pensiero e poesia, fino a fondare il concetto di “razén poética”: 
strumento gnoseologico, ri-creazione dell’essere. La poesia attua dunque come 
elemento ambivalente di coscienza e di morale, illuminando I’individualita 
concreta e vivente dell’esperienza. “Poesia y razén — scrive la Zambrano — se 
completan y requieren una a otra. La poesia vendria a ser el pensamiento 
supremo por captar la realidad intima de cada cosa, la realidad fluente, 
movediza, la radical heterogeneidad del ser” (“Guerra de Antonio Machado” 
68). 

La parola, “ese elemento primero para el hombre” (Bienaventurados 39) 
sara poi davanti al deserto, all’immensita e alla solitudine, il veicolo di una 
riscossa, il tramite eccellente per esorcizzare i fantasmi della memoria. 


poesia. L’esilio, dopo una lunga catarsi espressa nella sua opera autobiografica, non 
costituisce pil il luogo delle afflizioni e dei risentimenti, ma quello della convivenza e 
del sentire della ragione come vita. 


L’esilio degli intellettuali spagnoli nella diaspora della Guerra Civile 283 


Nella Spagna contemporanea, la costante peregrinatio della Zambrano si 
erge a simbolo rappresentativo della storia di tutto il popolo spagnolo: esiliato, 
errante, privato della propria terra. Sulle tracce di una fenomenologia 
psicanalitica , la Zambrano applica la “raz6én poética” come strumento per lo 
studio dell’uomo quale soggetto della storia e infine del suo stesso esilio. Per la 
filosofa perd la prova dell’esilio acquisisce i tratti di un’eccezionale esperienza 
di vita: l’esilio come una dimensione essenziale della vita umana. 

L’esilio per la filosofa ha il senso di una rivelazione, una rivelazione che 
sfugge allo specificamente religioso per addentrarsi in una dialettica dei sensi, 
nei presupposti analitici di un metodo che la ragione rende visibile. Come 
esperienza che appartiene al contingente, |’esilio attua come lacerante vivenza 
ed elemento mediatore tra il vivere e il pensare, e riconduce l’esperienza a 
quanto si é perduto: la patria. Nella Zambrano |’esilio assume |’entita di una 
‘figura essenziale’ del trascorrere umano, dall’originaria espulsione dal Paradiso 
al traumatico distacco dal presente per affrontare un ignoto futuro. “En mi exilio 
— scrive la Zambrano — como en todos los exilios de verdad hay algo sacro, 
algo inefable, el tiempo y las circunstancias en que me ha tocado vivir y a lo que 
no puedo renunciar”. 

Vita ed esilio si tramutano nella Zambrano in una simbiosi dell’esistere, 
nella consapevolezza di una “patria non desiderata” che brucia e ferisce, fino 
alla rinuncia, all’accettazione cosciente di un non-ritorno. “Yo no concibo — 
afferma la Zambrano — mi vida sin el exilio que he vivido. El exilio ha sido 
como mi patria, o como una dimensi6n de una patria desconocida, pero que una 
vez que se conoce, es irenunciable” (“Amo mi exilio” 14). 

Nella Zambrano I’esilio ha la valenza di un viaggio iniziatico che si compie 
nell’identificazione di un segno, nell’ansia costante di una perdita, di una 
lacerante mutilazione che crea |’illusoria aspettativa di un riscatto; ovvero 
recuperare il tempo perduto, I’io, gli altri, il sentire originario. Per la filosofa, 
l’esilio raffigura per antonomasia |’essere in solitudine, spoglio di identita e di 
speranza. Assente dalla volonta nella disfatta della propria storia prova la 
sconvolgente sensazione del vuoto e dello smarrimento, una incessante 
estraneita, il “no tener lugar en el mundo, ni geogrfico ni social ni politico [...] 
ni ontolégico” (Los bienaventurados 39). Lo sradicamento riconduce l’essere al 
centro di un punto senza apparenti coordinate, senza orizzonti riconducibili; 
l’esilio come la follia incarna “un disfare la propria nascita, un venir meno 
all’orizzonte protettivo del vissuto quotidiano, all’identita nota, per esporsi in 
totale nudita, sui bordi della storia, alla totale estraneita. E in questa nudita si 
rimane prigionieri, in un vuoto enorme, incolmabile: quella che la Zambrano 
chiama l’immensita dell’esilio” (Boella 83). Immensita e solitudine diventano 
allora lo spazio di uno spirito per il quale morire — e non la morte — costituisce 
la lunga agonia del futuro nel tempo. 

Universita degli studi di Pisa 


284 Annunziata O. Campa 


Opere citate 


Boella Laura, “Maria Zambrano (1904-1991”, Cuori pensanti. Hannah Arendt, Simone 
Weil, Edith Stein, Maria Zambrano, Mantova, Tre Lune, 2001. 65-92. 
Zambrano Maria, Maria Zambrano, La agonia de Europa (1945) 
, “Amo mi exilio”, Las palabras de regreso, Salamanca, Amaru, 1995. 1-14. 
, Los bienaventurados, Madrid, Siruela, 1990. 
, “La guerra de Antonio Machado”, Senderos. Los intelectuales en el drama de 
Espana, Barcelona, Anthropos, 1989. 60-70. 


Giuseppe Tosi 


Dall’ attesa alla storia-esilio. 
La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? 
di Primo Levi 


Dov’é la mia casa? E in nessun luogo. 
E nello zaino che mi porto dietro. 
(Levi, Se non ora, quando? 200) 


1. La memoria spezzata 

Se non ora, quando? si apre con una immagine retrospettiva, una rievocazione 
del passato. Mendel, il protagonista, che di professione faceva I’orologiaio, 
ricorda che al suo paese 


di orologi ce n’erano pochi. Ce n’era uno sul campanile, ma era fermo da non so quanti 
anni, forse fin dalla rivoluzione: io non l’ho mai visto camminare, e mio padre diceva che 
neanche lui. Non aveva orologio neppure il campanaro. 


(3) 


Al termine della vicenda, dopo un interminabile viaggio che lo ha condotto, 
insieme con i suoi compagni, dalla remota e ostile Polessia all’Italia 
dell’immediato dopoguerra, Mendel sbircia la prima ed unica pagina di un 
quotidiano di cui non riesce a capire i titoli. 


[...] il giornale, costituito da un solo foglio, portava un titolo in corpo molto grande [...]. 
Quel giornale era del martedi 7 agosto 1945, e recava la notizia della prima bomba 


atomica lanciata su Hiroshima. 
(259) 


L’intera vicenda narrata € compresa all’interno di questi due termini 
temporali che determinano, in ultima analisi, anche |’ambito della biografia di 
Mendel, il suo principio e la sua fine. L’itinerario di Se non ora, quando?, 
dunque, comincia e termina con due nozioni di tempo che si situano in 
opposizione 1’una all’altra: ad un principio in cui prevale una assenza del tempo, 
© una sua sospensione, fa riscontro una fine caratterizzata dalla precisione di una 
data che non si rivela solo come sequenza lineare del calendario ma anche e 
soprattutto come l’evento storico che la differenzia. Entrambe le nozioni 
sviluppano un significato simbolico preciso: rappresentano, cioé, un prima e un 
dopo nella storia di Mendel e di un gruppo di partigiani ebrei e del loro 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


286 Giuseppe Tosi 


lunghissimo viaggio di sopravvivenza nel tentativo di raggiungere la Palestina. 
E un esodo che si rinnova e che si situa in una discontinuita temporale tra cid 
che era prima della storia — nella tradizione ebraica il tempo escatologico 
dell’attesa, della redenzione, della venuta del messia — e cid che segue, dopo il 
diluvio — la guerra — I’esilio in un percorso storico secolare che inaugura un 
nuovo inizio faticoso, contraddittorio e inquietante. Tra questi due estremi si 
situa la Shoah, la distruzione dell’ebraismo aschenazita, la morte di dio.” 

Il gruppo di partigiani si lascia alle spalle le rovine della guerra ma anche i 
tragici eventi che hanno segnato la distruzione delle comunita ebraiche orientali 
ad opera dell’invasione tedesca: sono tutti scampati alla morte, hanno tutti avuto 
le loro famiglie massacrate e le loro case distrutte, sono tutti superstiti di un 
tempo e di un luogo che non esistono pit. Tutto cid che era prima della 


'“Tanto La tregua quanto Se non ora, quando? sono muniti di una carta geografica, con 
una linea che rappresenta I’itinerario del rispettivo protagonista. Le rassomiglianze e i 
rapporti sono significativi. I due percorsi, quello di Primo Levi liberato ad Auschwitz, e 
quello di Mendel e dei suoi compagni partigiani, hanno un andamento est-ovest (dalla 
Bielorussia, dall’Ucraina e dalla Podolia a Monaco), poi si fa identico nella sua 
inflessione nord-sud, passando per Innsbruck e per il Brennero, e giungendo a Verona 
attraverso Bolzano. [...]. La cartina di Se non ora, quando? ha un’altra implicazione 
simbolica. Se la si ripercorre a rovescio, dal campo di raccolta presso Milano a Valuets 
(Urss), si toccano le zone pit importanti dell’ebraismo orientale, della Ostjudentum 
(aschenazita). Tanto per farsi un’idea: gli ebrei costituivano il 10 per cento della 
popolazione polacca; il 4 per cento di quella russa; il 40 per cento degli abitanti di Vilna 
(Lituania). E Se non ora, quando? é, anche, un canto funebre di questa civilta ebraica 
orientale, finita nei campi di concentramento nazista” (Segre 94). 

7 In Se non ora, quando? Dio é infinitamente distante dagli uomini ed una frattura 
insanabile si é ormai prodotta, con lo sterminio, fra dio ed il suo popolo eletto. “Il 
Signore nostro Dio, il Padrone del Mondo, aveva diviso le acque del Mar Rosso, e i carri 
erano stati travolti. Chi avrebbe diviso le acque davanti agli ebrei di Novoselki? Chi li 
avrebbe sfamati con le quaglie e la manna? Dal cielo nero non scendeva manna ma neve 
spietata” (62-3). Indubbiamente il romanzo riflette anche la posizione scettica di Primo 
Levi nei riguardi della religione che, pur essendo gia presente ben prima della sua 
deportazione ad Auschwitz, si era tuttavia radicalizzata con |’esperienza del campo di 
sterminio. Molti anni dopo, durante un’ intervista, Levi avrebbe affermato: “It is a miracle 
that I am still alive, in good health, with my family. I have made a vow never to forget 
that, and I repeat that to myself every day, like a prayer. It is not that I thank Providence, 
because if there really was a Providence, Auschwitz and Birkenau would never have 
existed” (Anissimov 270). Diverso, e da non confondere con un senso religioso, é il 
discorso sull’umanesimo proposto da Primo Levi che, pur assumendo a modello alcuni 
precetti religiosi, rientra, tuttavia, in una pil generale filosofia dell’esistenza, come 
quando annota: “Améry mi ha definito il ‘perdonatore.’ Non la considero un’offesa né 
una lode, bensi un’imprecisione. Non ho tendenza a perdonare, non ho mai perdonato 
nessuno dei nostri nemici di allora [...] perché non conosco atti umani che possano 
cancellare una colpa; chiedo giustizia, ma non sono capace, personalmente, di fare a 
pugni né di rendere il colpo” (J sommersi e i salvati 110). 


La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 287 


distruzione — modelli e forme di vita familiari, comunitari e religiosi — resta 
cristallizzato all’interno di una memoria del passato a cui non é pil possibile 
fare riferimento senza la coscienza paralizzante della sua indicibilita. La 
memoria di quel passato pud solo offrire, ai sopravvissuti, sequenze 
frammentarie di cid che era la vita prima del presente, visi, voci, ritratti, 
immagini familiari, personaggi che entrano ed escono di continuo dalle quinte 
della memoria, che si presentano, magari non voluti, nel campo visivo del 
ricordo, alcuni con la loro storia, altri con il solo aspetto fisico, molti 
abbandonano la scena per non tornarci mai pill. Questi sprazzi della vita di 
prima riaffiorano nella devastazione di un presente in cui non solo le immagini 
di morte dominano senza pudore, ma che manca della fondamentale dimensione 
umana della quotidianita, un presente totalizzante nel quale, come un’eco 
lontana, risuonano le parole di Se questo é un uomo: 


[...] il problema del futuro remoto é impallidito, ha perso ogni concretezza, di fronte ai 
ben pid urgenti e concreti problemi del futuro prossimo: quando si mangera oggi, se 
nevichera, se ci sara da scaricare carbone. 

(38) 


Per gli ebrei, il rimpianto delle loro case non era una speranza ma una disperazione, 
sepolta fino allora sotto dolori pit urgenti e gravi, ma latente. Le loro case non c’erano 
pit: erano state spazzate via, incendiate dalla guerra o dalla strage, insanguinate dalle 
squadre dei cacciatori d’uomini; case-tomba, a cui era meglio non pensare, case di 
cenere. Perché vivere ancora, perché combattere? Per quale casa, per quale patria, per 
quale avvenire? 

(94) 


Al passato distrutto si associa il dissolvimento del futuro. In queste 
circostanze il senso di identita individuale e di gruppo soffre della mancanza di 
una progettualita futura non disponendo di modelli di riferimento che affondano 
le loro radici nel passato o in una qualche forma di memoria collettiva. Il 
presente distende i suoi confini fino ad inglobare passato e futuro, imprigiona i 
protagonisti in una collocazione mentale nella quale non trova posto la 
coscienza dell’identita ma solo forme di alienazione che producono uno 
schiacciamento sul reale.’ Il presente, a sua volta, si configura tramite un’altra 
definizione del tempo: quella che caratterizza il viaggio, la ricerca e l’avventura. 
Tutte queste temporalita diverse non possono, per forza di cose, situarsi in una 


3 Levi aveva gia descritto questa forma di alienazione in Se questo é un uomo: “Per gli 
uomini vivi le unita del tempo hanno sempre un valore, il quale ¢ tanto maggiore, quanto 
pit elevate sono le risorse interne di chi le percorre; ma per noi, ore, giorni e mesi si 
riversavano torpidi dal futuro nel passato, sempre troppo lenti, materia vile e superflua, di 
cui cercavamo di disfarci al pit’ presto. Conchiuso il tempo in cui i giorni si inseguivano 
vivaci, preziosi e irreparabili, il futuro ci stava davanti grigio e inarticolato, come una 
barriera invincibile. Per noi, la storia si era fermata” (105). 


288 Giuseppe Tosi 


continuita ordinata di passato, presente e futuro ma coesistono e si 
sovrappongono seguendo non solo |’evoluzione della vicenda narrata ma anche 
le reazioni emotive, profonde dei personaggi nella loro sopravvivenza 
quotidiana fino alla chiusa del libro. 

Attraverso queste differenziazioni temporali Levi riprende in Se non ora, 
quando? uno dei motivi ricorrenti nella tradizione letteraria ebraica-orientale, 
quello dell’ebreo errante che, privato della sua appartenenza ad una comunita, 
vaga inseguito dalla condanna divina, lacerato dalla separazione dallo shtetl (il 
villaggio ebraico) e traumaticamente confinato nel suo esilio solitario. Lo shtetl 
rivive nella memoria come comunita di affetti familiari, armonia di valori ormai 
relegati in un passato mitizzato e percid irraggiungibile. La rievocazione dello 
shtetl diventa, per l’ebreo errante, una fonte di dolore perché il ricordo del 
passato accentua la lacerazione della sua individualita che non pud pid 
ricomporsi nel deserto dell’ora presente se non momentaneamente e tramite 
l’ulteriore radicamento dei valori religiosi che sono altrimenti assenti nell’ esilio. 
Ecco allora che la religione si erge a salvaguardia dell’individuo e sia la 
tradizione biblica che quella talmudica si offrono come ristoro e riparo contro 
l’ostilita di cid che é, per sua natura, straniero ed informe. Senza possedere la 
pretesa di un tempo definibile, il passato rivisitato in chiave religiosa dispone 
della sicurezza di cid che si conosce, del gia avvenuto di cui si pud raccontare la 
storia. E la mano ordinatrice del dio che crea e che al tempo stesso produce 
ordine servendosi del linguaggio come un modus per separare la forma dal caos, 
la norma dall’assenza. I] ricordo é conservazione del passato e, nelle forme del 
racconto che gli sono proprie, ingiunzione morale, galleria di exempla che, nel 
loro tramandarsi attraverso le generazioni, servono come ammonimento e 
salvazione. E vi é anche una componente estetica del ricordo, quella che 
determina la trasposizione scritta della vasta tradizione orale ebraica-orientale, 
"humus fecondo dal quale fiorisce la letteratura yiddish in cui l’umano e il 
divino riannodano i loro fili spezzati dalla diaspora.‘ 

Ma il passato perduto di Se non ora, quando? trascina, nel suo 
dissolvimento, anche il riparo che in epoche trascorse era costituito dalla 
tradizione religiosa. Quest’ultima sopravvive nelle parole dei personaggi 
soltanto come inevitabile traccia della memoria nelle sue forme lessicali che, 
ormai svuotate di nessi con |’esperienza quotidiana, riaffiorano incomprensibili. 
E un passato segnato da una rottura traumatica, irrecuperabile anche nel ricordo, 
non pili vivificato dalla costante convivenza con il divino, un passato che non 
contempla un nostos rigeneratore, rendendo cosi il ritorno impossibile: 


[...] se vuoi sapere come si chiama, questo paese, si chiama Strelka, come chissa quanti 
altri paesi; e se vuoi sapere dov’é, sappi che non é lontano da qui, anzi era, perché questa 


Bs yiddish” infatti, “é teso fra la vocazione divina e la miseria quotidiana dell’ esilio” 
(Il sistema periodico 9). 





La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 289 


Strelka non c’é pit. Meta dei paesani si sono sparsi per la campagna e per il bosco, e 
!’altra meta stanno in una fossa, e non ci stanno stretti, perché tanti erano morti gia prima. 
In una fossa, si; e |"hanno dovuta scavare loro, gli ebrei di Strelka [...]. E sappi ancora 
che questo paese che non c’é pil io l’ho maledetto molte volte, perché era un paese di 
anitre e di capre, e c’era la chiesa e la sinagoga ma non c’era il cinematografo; e adesso a 
pensarlo mi sembra il Giardino dell’Eden e mi taglierei una mano perché il tempo 
camminasse all’indietro e tutto tornasse come prima. 


(4) 


Strelka é il luogo di provenienza di Mendel, il paese amato-detestato, ma 
infinitamente rimpianto ed ormai associato irrimediabilmente ad un’immagine di 
morte di massa da cui manca ogni senso di sacralita.° In queste parole di Mendel 
non sopravvive alcuna parvenza di quel fondamento etico-religioso assegnato 
alla memoria dalla tradizione orientale che si esplica insieme sia come 
consapevolezza e protezione del divenire, sia come salvaguardia dall’oblio e 
dall’anonimato. La coscienza della distruzione del passato della comunita di 
Mendel, segna pertanto una rottura con le forme e i modelli della tradizione 
ebraica orientale. I] punto di riferimento inevitabile della coscienza di Mendel 
rimane ancorato a quel traumatico dileguarsi di forme di quotidianita, di 
localizzazioni tropiche, che assicuravano un continuum temporale alla sua 
individualita all’interno del suo spazio collettivo.° 

Il modello sociale e culturale al quale Mendel fa riferimento é quello dello 
con le sue forme ed abitudini tradizionali che si celebravano attorno ad un 
nucleo centrale, riflesso di un secolare processo di costruzione e conservazione 


> Che la morte di massa nei territori occupati riveli il suo aspetto desacralizzato sia 
tramite le esecuzioni multiple che nella fretta delle fosse comuni é forse dir poco. In 
realta, la morte di massa svela tutto il suo carattere di produzione massificata di morte, la 
sua meccanizzazione, qualcosa di ancora piu orribile della morte. Parlando di Auschwitz 
(ma il discorso vale anche per lo sterminio nei territori orientali occupati dalle armate 
tedesche) Agamben afferma che “non si possa pit parlare di morte, che quella dei campi 
non fosse morte. Ad Auschwitz non si moriva, venivano prodotti cadaveri. Cadaveri 
senza morte, non-uomini il cui decesso é svilito a produzione di serie. E proprio questa 
degradazione della morte costituirebbe anzi, secondo una possibile e diffusa 
interpretazione, l’offesa specifica di Auschwitz, il nome proprio del suo orrore” (66). 

e Qui la comunita é intesa nella sua accezione pil’ ampia, e tende ad includere anche il 
senso della casa e degli affetti famigliari, se ¢ vero che lo shtetl é il crocevia di affetti e di 
regole famigliari. “Allo sradicamento, alla dissociazione generata dall’esilio” scrive 
Paola Valabrega, “si contrappongono la casa e gli affetti. La casa rappresenta il ‘rifugio’, 
il ‘confine perduto’: secondo questa concezione che si ritrova nella letteratura ebraica 
orientale, anche Levi afferma la validita della comunita famigliare rispetto alle sofferenze 
di una ‘storia-esilio’” (268). Magris ritorna sulla “celebrazione della cellula famigliare” 
in opposizione all’”assenza” determinata dalla diaspora. Nel caso di Se non ora, quando? 
il gruppo di partigiani, in qualche maniera, sostituira la comunita famigliare pur senza 
poter giungere, ovviamente, ad una sua sostituzione (19). 


290 Giuseppe Tosi 


di un’identita sociale, “il mondo delle cose giuste fatte alle ore giuste” (190). E 
lo shtetl, difatti, lo spazio assegnato dall’ebraismo orientale all’elaborazione del 
riscontro sociale tramite la consacrazione di una ritualita quotidiana, culturale e 
religiosa giunta a maturazione nel corso della storia della collettivita. Lo shtetl 
assolveva al principio della conservazione della memoria sia individuale che 
collettiva, vale a dire di quell’insieme di elementi comuni, di simboli e di 
sentimenti di identificazione che si presentavano necessariamente come un 
prodotto culturale originale ed irripetibile. A quest’ambito temporale e spaziale 
era assegnato lo scopo di offrire un quadro interpretativo dell’esistenza nel quale 
le esperienze passate, presenti e future dell’individuo trovavano una loro 
immediata collocazione nell’unita di una biografia. Nell’ambito dello specifico 
ebraico la biografia sviluppa e legittima |’identita dell’ individuo per indicargli il 
suo cammino esistenziale nonostante gli inevitabili cambiamenti legati 
all’instabilita stessa della diaspora. La memoria che si distende nel tempo 
costituiva la condizione primaria per |’affermarsi dell’identita nei suoi connotati 
irrinunciabili di stabilita, di permanenza e di coerenza interna. In questo senso il 
ricordo costituiva il dono della vita vissuta in prospettiva e presupponeva lo 
sviluppo di una coscienza interiore che fosse capace di saper collocare 
orizzonte vitale dell’individuo sia nel passato che nel futuro, i termini con i 
quali si confrontavano strategie di azione, valori, motivazioni, modi di sentire e 
pensare. Era, inoltre, una capacita in cui la componente religiosa contribuiva alla 
formazione di un universo culturale in grado di conferire significato al tempo, di 
rendere il senso di appartenenza a tale flusso e ad integrarlo con la propria 
identita.’ 

Proprio dall’esaltazione di una biografia individuale deriva la varieta dei tipi 
umani dello shtet/, ognuno con una sua caratteristica, con una sua distinzione, 
con una sua identita: Mendel l’orologiaio, Gedale il violinista, Mottel il 
macellaio rituale della comunita, Pavel l’attore e clown, Rokele Nera e Rokele 
Bianca, Line la tentatrice, insieme ai “sarti, copisti, cantori” comunita di arti e 
mestieri a cui dovrebbe aggiungersi anche il meschuggé e il nebech, figure 
pittoresche e rituali di ogni villaggio. Posti brutalmente al di fuori della 
possibilita non solo di accedere alla memoria ma anche all’esperienza di 
ricostruire un futuro, i sopravvissuti restano con le proprie ferite esistenziali a 
cui é negata la cura dell’elaborazione biografica e fluttuano nel vuoto della 
propria individualita dispersa: 


Certo sono un disperso anch’io [...]. E forse si possono contare i dispersi? Se si potesse 
non sarebbero dispersi; si contano i vivi e i morti, i dispersi non sono né vivi né morti e 
non si possono contare. Sono come i fantasmi. (Se non ora, quando? 7) 


’ Sulla memoria individuale e collettiva, l’identita e l’oblio rimando alla seguente 
bibliografia essenziale: Bodei; Goffman; Jedlowski; Oliverio; Panofsky; Rossi; Tabboni; 
Taylor. 





La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 291 


Il senso della vita sbiadisce, disperdendosi nell’impallidirsi della propria 
individualita e lascia il posto ad una stanchezza del vivere, ad un vuoto 
trascinarsi giornaliero nelle retrovie della guerra: 


Era stanco della guerra e della vita, e sentiva corrergli per le vene, invece del sangue 
rosso del soldato, il sangue pallido della stirpe da cui sapeva di discendere, sarti, 
mercanti, osti, violinisti di villaggio, miti patriarchi prolifici e rabbini visionari. Era 
stanco anche di camminare e di nascondersi, stanco di essere Mendel: quale Mendel? Chi 
& Mendel figlio di Nachman? Mendel Nachmanovic, alla maniera russa, com’era scritto 
sul ruolino del plotone, o Mendel ben Nachman, come a suo tempo, nel 1915, aveva 
scritto sul registro il rabbino dei due orologi? 

(Se non ora, quando? 17) 


Su questo sfondo di devastazione si rinnova la storia secolare dell’esodo 
nella quale il novello ebreo errante, privato del soffio di Dio, barcolla nella sua 
nuova, immensa solitudine. Egli sa che il tempo dell’attesa é terminato ma non 
nei termini e nei luoghi assegnatigli dalla tradizione. Questa volta é l’idea stessa 
di Dio che vacilla sotto i colpi incomprensibili dello sterminio, il Dio una volta 
onnipotente, “creatore di meraviglie e di mostri” (La ricerca delle radici 5), che 
ha abbandonato i resti del popolo che lui stesso aveva scelto in una disperazione 
sempre pit irrimediabile, oscillante in un “universo ostile, violento, strano” (La 
tregua 158). D’ora in avanti non sara piu possibile non solo |’invocazione 
accorata di Giobbe, vittima designata dell’onnipotenza ed inconoscibilita di Dio, 
ma anche solamente la fede nella discesa salvifica del messia sulla terra 
devastata. Il tempo dell’attesa ¢ terminato e con esso anche I’accettazione dei 
mali storici con la serena rassegnazione di Giobbe.* Si apre il tempo nuovo 
dell’esilio, delle responsabilita storiche, della presenza attiva tra le 
contraddizioni della storia: la guerra, la sopravvivenza, la ricerca di una nuova 
terra promessa, ora da conquistarsi e lavorarsi da soli. E questa volta, se proprio 
vale attingere ancora una volta agli exempla della Bibbia, il modello proposto é 
piuttosto quello di Davide, non il piccolo re prescelto da Dio ma colui che, 
armato di fionda, si prova ad affrontare il gigante (teutonico, in questo caso) 
riuscendo anche a sconfiggerlo. Da una parte domande rimaste inevase: 


Tu ci hai scelti fra tutte le nazioni: perché proprio noi? Perché prospera I’empio, perché la 


® Come, del resto, anche Levi sottolineava quando scriveva che “Giobbe é il giusto 
oppresso dall’ingiustizia. E vittima di una crudele scommessa fra Satana e Dio: che fara 
Giobbe, pio, sano, ricco e felice, se sara toccato negli averi, e poi negli affetti familiari, e 
poi sulla sua stessa pelle? Ebbene, Giobbe il giusto, degradato ad animale da 
esperimento, si comporta come farebbe ognuno di noi: dapprima china il capo e loda Dio 
(‘Accetteremmo da Dio il bene e non il male?’), poi le sue difese crollano. Povero, orbato 
dei figli, coperto di piaghe, siede tra i rifiuti grattandosi con un coccio, e contende con 
Dio. E una contesa diseguale: Dio creatore di meraviglie e di mostri lo schiaccia sotto la 
sua onnipotenza” (La ricerca delle radici 5). 


292 Giuseppe Tosi 


strage degli indifesi, perché la fame, le fosse comuni, il tipo, e il lanciafiamme delle SS 
nelle tane stipate di bambini atterriti? E perché ungheresi, polacchi, ucraini, lituani, 
tartari, devono rapinare e massacrare gli ebrei, strappargli le ultime armi dalle mani, 
invece di unirsi a loro contro il nemico comune? 

(Se non ora, quando? 59) 


Dall’altra parte subentra l’urgenza e la necessita delle risposte immediate: 


Ognuno di loro [i gedalisti], uomo o donna, aveva sulle spalle una storia diversa, ma 
rovente e pesante come il piombo fuso; ognuno avrebbe dovuto piangere cento morti se la 
guerra e tre inverni terribili gliene avessero lasciato il tempo e il respiro. Erano stanchi, 
poveri e sporchi, ma non sconfitti; figli di mercanti, sarti, rabbini e cantori, si erano 
armati con le armi tolte ai tedeschi, si erano conquistato il diritto di indossare quelle 
uniformi lacere e senza gradi, ed avevano assaporato pit volte il cibo aspro dell’ uccidere. 

(Se non ora, quando? 104) 


Per questi ebrei partigiani il gruppo supplisce alla mancanza dell’ identita, 
determina i valori della comunita in viaggio verso una promessa questa volta 
non concessa ma conquistata.’ “La natura insanabile dell’offesa” che nell’ora 
della liberazione ne La tregua opprime “il corpo e l’anima dei sommersi”, e che 
si moltiplica nei suoi “mille modi, contro la stessa volonta di tutti, come sete di 
vendetta, come cedimento morale, come negazione, come stanchezza, come 
rinuncia”, rimane in Se non ora, quando? confinata in uno spazio retrostante le 
piu urgenti necessita pratiche della guerriglia di disturbo nelle retrovie del fronte 
e non tracima gli argini della decenza morale, della solidarieta di gruppo, della 
difesa di cid che resta di umano da salvare. Questi partigiani non nutrono “l’ odio 
per i superstiti” di Auschwitz, non hanno esperienza di quanto “grave e chiusa”’” 
possa essere |’ora della liberazione, non ricercano, al modo degli Hdftlinge (i 
prigionieri ebrei del campo), la morte come liberazione dall’insostenibile peso 
della colpa. Sono liberi, lo sono sempre stati, 0 si sono guadagnati Ia loro liberta, 
€ per questo sono ancora in grado di parlare di dignita umana. Ed é il valore 
della scelta, dell’assunzione di una responsabilita, della sottrazione allo 
sterminio, del rischio e dell’esposizione alla morte che determina il privilegio di 
esistere che muove e spinge questi partigiani. Nel loro “essere per la morte”! 


* Se anche il gruppo non pud riproporre un contesto sociale per la precarieta stessa della 
situazione in corso, esso tuttavia si pone come riferimento che supplisce ad una mancanza 
e che rimedia all’assenza. Si tratta di una solidarieta che restituisce senso alla vita, come 
afferma Segre: “I partigiani ebrei, riscotendosi da una lunga schiavitu e sottraendosi alla 
‘soluzione finale,’ sviluppano tra loro un cameratismo reso assoluto dalla mancanza di 
altri punti di riferimento (la famiglia, gli amici); hanno meditato ed elaborato insieme una 
tavola di valori e un senso della vita” (105). 

'° Tutte le espressioni citate si ritrovano ne La tregua 158. 

'' £ questa espressione di Martin Heidegger in Being and Time. La traduzione é mia, 
sulla base delle traduzioni tradizionali nelle versioni italiane del testo. 


La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 293 


questi ultimi ritrovano l’autenticita dell’esistenza di cui percepiscono 
inconsciamente anche il risvolto politico in vista della fondazione di una 
comunita israelitica in Medio Oriente. Infine, non avendo conosciuto il totale 
disprezzo della dignita umana, teoria e prassi dei campi di sterminio, gli é€ 
estranea la pratica della collaborazione con l’aguzzino, quella devastazione 
morale che Primo Levi aveva definito come la zona grigia, causa, in ultima 
analisi, dell’insopportabile oppressione del vivere che si manifesta nell’ora 
stessa della liberazione. I partigiani e gli Haftlinge sono veramente due mondi 
tra i quali non é possibile alcun tipo di comunicazione. 


Parlavano poco e sottovoce, e di rado sollevavano gli occhi da terra. I gedalisti tentarono 
invano di stabilire un contatto con loro: soddisfatti i bisogni primari, sembravano non 
avere piu desideri né interessi né curiosita. Non facevano domande, e alle domande non 
rispondevano. C’erano anche donne: avevano ancora indosso |’abito a righe, zoccoli di 
legno ai piedi, e i loro capelli avevano appena ricominciato a crescere. Al termine della 
seconda notte Mendel usci dalla baracca per andare alla latrina. Appena varcata la soglia 
urtO contro un corpo umano e lo senti oscillare inerte; era ancora caldo, pendeva 
impiccato dalle travi del soffitto. Il fatto si ripeté nei giorni successivi, come 
un’ossessione silenziosa. 

(Se non ora, quando? 217) 


Di fronte a questa notte dell’umanita, Mendel e i suoi oppongono il valore 
dell’esperienza attiva che si avvale di pochi ma fermi punti di riferimento e che 
si esplica in un’attivita tutta mondana, volitiva, ottimistica. Senza ottimismo, 
come Primo Levi ricordava, “le battaglie si perdono, anche contro i mulini a 
vento”( racconti 565). Ed aveva poi ribadito: “Siamo qui per questo, per 
sbagliare e correggerci, per incassare colpi e renderli. Non ci si deve mai sentire 
disarmati” (// sistema periodico 79). In questa capacita di reazione si distende 
cid che Primo Levi chiamava “il tremendo privilegio della nostra generazione e 
del mio popolo”(La tregua 11): quella volonta, cioé, di contrapporsi alla natura 
insanabile dell’offesa e di ritrovare, nella vita che si rinnova, il valore della 
salvaguardia della memoria di cid che é successo per impedirgli di rinnovarsi e 
colpire ancora. La ricostruzione della propria storia assurge, qui ed ora, ad un 
obbligo morale che si attua tramite la reinvenzione del proprio destino: “[...] 
quanto voi avete imparato nelle paludi e nel bosco”, esorta Smirnov ai 
partigiani, “non deve andare perduto; e non basta che sopravviva in un libro” (Se 
non ora, quando? 222). 


Combattiamo per salvarci dai tedeschi, per vendicarci, per aprirci la strada; ma 
soprattutto, perdonami la parola grossa, per dignita. E infine devo dirti questo: molti fra 
noi non avevano mai gustato il sapore della liberta, e hanno imparato a conoscere qui, 
nelle foreste, nelle paludi e nel pericolo, insieme con l’avventura e la fraternita. 

(Se non ora, quando? 183) 


294 Giuseppe Tosi 


Complice di questo ritrovato senso di liberta é la dimensione del viaggio 
che caratterizza l’esperienza del gruppo, che determina I’estensione del sé, 
questa volta non nell’interno di un divenire individuale ma nell’esterno di una 
proiezione del gruppo sul territorio. Lo schiacciamento sul presente produce 
Palienazione derivante dalla mancanza di una prospettiva futura, ma mentre il 
viaggio rende possibile la condivisione dell’esperienza quotidiana, genera una 
nuova forma di individualita che, esposta fin dal suo primo formarsi alle 
avwversita dell’ignoto, trova la propria ragion d’essere in un nuovo senso di 
responsabilita verso sé e verso gli altri del gruppo. Ma il viaggio é anche 
avventura, ricerca, scoperta, sorpresa, novita. E la vita che si rinnova 
quotidianamente, é la linfa che alimenta la curiosita, é la temerarieta che sfugge 
alla morte. Questo viaggio, a differenza degli esempi classici, non prevede un 
ritorno a casa, ma contiene in sé tutti quegli elementi costitutivi che pure 
l’accomuna all’esperienza degli ulissidi e dai quali i partigiani in viaggio 
derivano un rapporto totalmente nuovo con la propria individualita. Ne 
consegue, in ultima analisi, proprio quell’accumulazione dei materiali 
dell’esistenza che prefigurano il ricostituirsi di nuove forme di vita associata.'* 
A dispetto, dunque, della forzata estraneita nei confronti dei modelli della 
tradizione, Mendel e i suoi non raggiungono lo stadio della fine dell’esperienza 
ma, al contrario, sono profondamente impegnati nella ricostruzione del loro 
vivere quotidiano, permettendo a tutti loro un lento e costante depositarsi 
dell’esperienza nella memoria. Proprio questa esperienza, vissuta dai 
protagonisti come una nuova capacita di lasciar sedimentare il vissuto nella 
profondita della memoria, conduce alla riappropriazione del proprio cammino 


'2 Come nota Agamben: “[da un lato] sopravvivere indica la pura e semplice 
continuazione della nuda vita, rispetto ad una vita pil vera ed umana; in un altro, la 
sopravvivenza ha un senso positivo e si riferisce — come in Des Pres — a colui che, 
combattendo contro la morte, é sopravvissuto all’inumano” (66). Levi ritorna sulla 
necessita della vita, concepita come un valore positivo, nel suo racconto “Verso 
occidente” in cui ribadisce che “[...] tutto cid che é vivo, lotta per vivere e non sa perché. 
Il perché sta scritto in ogni cellula, ma in un linguaggio che non sappiamo leggere con la 
mente: lo leggiamo pero con tutto il nostro essere, e obbediamo al messaggio con tutto il 
nostro comportamento. Ma il messaggio pud essere pil! o meno imperativo: sopravvivono 
le specie il cui messaggio é inciso profondo e chiaro, le altre si estinguono, si sono 
estinte. Ma anche quelle il cui messaggio é chiaro possono avere delle lacune. Possono 
nascere individui senza amore per la vita; altri lo possono perdere per poco o molto 
tempo, magari per tutta la vita che gli resta; e finalmente... ecco, forse ci sono: lo 
possono perdere anche gruppi di individui, epoche, nazioni, famiglie. Sono cose che si 
sono viste: la storia umana ne é piena... volevo ancora dirti che fra chi possiede l’amore 
di vita e chi lo ha smarrito non esiste un linguaggio comune. Lo stesso evento viene 
descritto dai due in due modi che non hanno niente in comune: I’uno ne ricava gioia e 
l’altro tormento, ognuno ne trae conferma per la propria visione del mondo” (/ racconti 
198). 


La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 295 


biografico alla luce di una memoria di gruppo. In questo senso lo spazio 
dell’esperienza si restringe e si amplia allo stesso tempo: si restringe, perché 
tanto la dimensione del passato che quella del futuro sono entrati nell’ombra; si 
amplia, perché l’esperienza inaugura delle possibilita radicalmente nuove di 
confronto con materiali umani e sociali disparati e provenienti da ambiti 
culturali eterogenei tra loro.’ E, questo, infine, il senso nascosto nella 
confessione di Mendel ai suoi nuovi amici: 


[...] quello che volevo fare era giusto. Volevo prendere partito, come quando uno si 
taglia un ponte alle spalle, e non sa se é giusto o sbagliato, ma dopo che ha deciso il ponte 
non c’é pid e lui non ha pit scelte, tornare indietro non si pud piu. 

(Se non ora, quando? 25) 


Al viaggio si associa un senso contagioso di allegria, di festa che si rinnova 
nelle pause della guerra.'* La festa é il moto che si genera dal nucleo stesso del 
gruppo e rappresenta un implicito riconoscimento del proprio porsi come blocco 
unico segnato da un comune destino. Sono questi momenti di festa che afferrano 
la piccola comunita e la fanno rifluire verso un centro definito che chiarifica la 
separazione tra l’essere della festa, cioé la definizione del proprio essere 
collettivita, e il non-essere della festa, cioé la minaccia della dispersione sociale 
ed individuale. La festa é dunque il momento della conoscenza di sé e dell’ altro, 
é un prendere parte ad un flusso sensibile di commozione che é, in ultima 
analisi, un momento di creativita condiviso da tutti. La festa é il tempo della 
pausa da un tempo storico lineare che si disgrega solo temporaneamente per 
permettere l’irruzione di un tempo di qualita particolare: il tempo della 
rigenerazione.'° II centro fisico e simbolico da cui si irradia la festa é il violino 
di Gedale che non rappresenta solo il lieto espandersi della festa o la 





'3 “Poste le condizioni per la ricreazione della vita, anche |’uomo puo rinascere. E 
dall’assistenza ai malati, nella gratitudine manifestata con l’offerta del pane a quanti 
possono assisterli, che Levi data ‘l’inizio del processo per cui, noi che non siamo morti, 
da Hadftlinge siamo lentamente ridiventati uomini’ — ‘riacquistai il sentimento 
dell’umanita quando, insieme ad un compagno, riuscimmo ad aiutare malati e 
moribondi.’ Rotti di fatica ma finalmente nella condizione di poter fare qualcosa per gli 
altri, ‘forse come Dio dopo il primo giorno della creazione” (Porro 44). 

'4 “Prano allegri, invece: nell’avventura ogni giorno diversa della Partisanka, nella steppa 
gelata, nella neve e nel fango avevano trovato una liberta nuova, sconosciuta ai loro padri 
e ai loro nonni, un contatto con uomini amici e nemici, con la natura e con I’azione, che li 
ubriacava come il vino di Purim, quando é usanza abbandonare la sobrieta consueta e 
bere fino a non sapere pili distinguere la benedizione dalla maledizione. Erano allegri e 
feroci, come animali a cui si schiude la gabbia, come schiavi insorti a vendetta. E 
l’avevano gustata, la vendetta, pur pagandola cara: a diverse riprese, in sabotaggi, 
attentati e scontri di retrovia; ma anche di recente, pochi giorni prima e non lontano” (Se 
non ora, quando? 105). 

'S Derivo questa interpretazione da Kerényi. 


296 Giuseppe Tosi 


caratteristica che contraddistingue il suo portatore. I] violino é il simbolo stesso 
della diaspora e pertanto costituisce |’eiddlon (idolo), il centro della comunita, 
dal quale viene tramandato un sapere senza parole eppure immediatamente 
percepibile dai partecipanti alla festa. Eiddlon é cid che si rende visibile nello 
spazio esistente tra dio e gli uomini ed é anche cid che trasmette calore, 
freschezza ed originarieta alla festa. L’immagine del violino che si spezza, al 
passaggio del confine del Brennero, equivale al definitivo abbandono del mondo 
di ieri e cid avviene proprio in coincidenza dell’attraversamento di un valico di 
frontiera.'° E se I’Italia non é ancora la terra d’approdo costituisce senz’altro 
ultima tappa del viaggio, l’uscita dagli abissi del passato: 


Finite le insidie, finita la guerra, la via, il sangue e il ghiaccio, morto il satan di Berlino, 
vuoto e vacante il mondo, da ricreare, da ripopolare, come dopo il diluvio. In risalita, in 
allegra salita verso il valico: salita, alia, sia chiama cosi il cammino quando si esce 
dall’esilio, dal profondo, e si sale verso la luce. 

(Se non ora, quando? 237) 


2. L’identita perduta 

Con Se non ora, quando? Primo Levi portava a compimento il lungo percorso di 
esplorazione della civilta ebraica aschenazita, ed il libro costituisce una sorta di 
atto di devozione nei confronti di un popolo e di una tradizione a cui il nazismo 
aveva posto brutalmente termine. La sua era stata, inizialmente, una conoscenza 
forzata, frutto della sua deportazione ad Auschwitz, che lo aveva esposto ad una 
mentalita, credenze e forme di vita totalmente sconosciute per lui, ebreo 
assimilato e imbevuto dei valori laici e razionali dell’occidente.'’ Molto pit 
tardi, e dopo aver raccolto tutti gli strumenti conoscitivi che gli permettessero 
una comprensione pil! ampia e profonda di cid che era stata la tradizione ebraica 
orientale, Levi aveva dovuto riconoscere a questo incontro il carattere della 


'© “1 *immagine del violino che si spezza riecheggia un antico motivo ebraico, quello che 
obbliga gli sposi a rompere il bicchiere al termine della cerimonia nuziale. 
Nell’immaginario collettivo il bicchiere rotto evoca il ricordo della pit antica catastrofe. 
[...] Si tratta perd anche di un motivo psicologico eterno, che si rinnova di generazione in 
generazione, ed evoca la fragilita costitutiva dell’esistenza. Un motivo che é bene 
ricordare e che per la generazione attuale dell’ebraismo assume il carattere di un obbligo 
costitutivo, per il principio stesso di identita” (Meghnagi 297). 

'7 “I evi, assimilato e occidentalizzato come tutti gli ebrei italiani, guarda alla cultura 
ebraica orientale con quel senso di fraternita e di alterita che viene da remote origini 
comuni (nonché da una tragedia comune) e da una storia recente assai diversa, ben 
segnata dal divario linguistico: solo gli ebrei aschenaziti parlavano tra loro |’yiddish” 
(Segre 95). Personalmente tendo a credere che le “origini comuni” di cui parla Segre 
siano state il frutto di un faticoso lavoro di ricerca che ha imposto non solo un lungo 
impegno intellettuale ma anche lo sviluppo di una capacita di comprensione, da parte di 
Levi, dell’ebraismo orientale per il quale anche la differenza linguistica costituiva un 
ostacolo non facile da superare. 





La memoria e |’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 297 


fatalita che, insieme con il suo impegno di testimone, aveva radicalmente 
cambiato la sua vita ed il suo pensiero. Nella sua postfazione Levi aveva 
precisato: 


Questo libro é nato da quanto mi ha raccontato molti anni fa un mio amico che a Milano, 
nell’estate del 1945, aveva prestato la sua opera nell’ufficio di assistenza delineato 
nell’ultimo capitolo. In quel periodo, insieme con una fiumana di rimpatriati e di 
profughi, arrivarono realmente in Italia alcune bande simili a quella che mi sono proposto 
di descrivere: uomini e donne che anni di sofferenze avevano induriti ma non umiliati, 
superstiti di una civilta (poco nota in Italia) che il nazismo aveva distrutto fin dalle radici, 
stremati ma consapevoli della loro dignita. 

(Se non ora, quando? 261) 


In questa ricostruzione della genesi del libro, Primo Levi esponeva alcune 
delle motivazioni profonde che stanno alla base della composizione di Se non 
ora, quando? e che idealmente riconducono i motivi centrali della sua 
ispirazione ad un nucleo di sentimenti originatisi in un periodo ormai remoto. E 
proprio dalla contrapposizione della sua esperienza di ex-deportato con quella 
dei partigiani ebrei che avevano combattuto contro i tedeschi che nasce il 
tentativo di voler idealmente ribaltare i termini della sua storia personale e di 
riscriverla, anteponendo, alla realta dei fatti quali si erano svolti effettivamente, 
il desiderio di come lui avrebbe voluto che si fossero svolti.'* In questo senso il 
libro costituisce una proiezione psichica del suo autore e del suo personale 
rimpianto al quale egli pone un argine consolatorio costruendo un personaggio 
protagonista che é un altro da sé e che porta iscritto nel proprio nome le ragioni 
individuali del suo creatore: Mendel, infatti, “sta per Menachém, che vuol dire 
consolatore”(4).'? Ecco allora che Se non ora, quando?, pensato forse per la 
prima volta in un passaggio cruciale della vita di Primo Levi — il ritorno a casa 
e la lenta formazione del testimone — rappresenta in ultima analisi una risposta, 
da distanze diverse, a Se questo é un uomo e trova la sua naturale collocazione 
nell’ambito di quel mondo del possibile umano che gia La tregua aveva 


'8 “I evi had never forgotten the hard-bitten young Jews, none of them over twenty, who 
in October 1945 had hitched their wagon to the train of the home-ward-bitten Italians, 
without asking anyone’s permission. The new passengers, who came from all the 
countries of Eastern Europe, were Zionists, heading for Palestine. A ship was waiting for 
them in Bari. Levi was astounded by their air of freedom and by their daring. Here he had 
come across a small group of survivors who belonged to a shattered civilization, 
‘Yiddishland,’ but who felt that they were masters of their fate, and capable of changing 
the world” (Anissimov 337). 

'° “Primo Levi admitted to many journalists, who asked him questions, that he identified 
himself with the character of Mendel the watchmaker, the partisan, because he would 
have liked to be a real partisan” (Anissimov 343). Anissimov non cita la sua fonte ma 
credo che si riferisca all’ intervista rilasciata da Levi a Rosellina Balbi dal titolo “Mendel 
il consolatore,” in La Repubblica del 14 aprile 1982, ora in Belpoliti e Gordon 103-08. 


298 Giuseppe Tosi 


prospettato. 

Infatti, Se non ora, quando?, se da un lato costituisce il punto di approdo di 
una ricerca. storico-esistenziale del suo autore, dall’altro ricostruisce 
allegoricamente la genesi del pensiero di Levi nella misura in cui viene 
formandosi attraverso la lettura critica della pit’ recente storia culturale 
dell’occidente, una cultura in cui il senso della morte e la crisi sono stati a lungo 
predominanti. A questo pensiero Levi contrappone un’istanza vitale innovativa 
che trova espressione nella costruzione di un’ontologia propositiva pensata in 
opposizione alle formulazioni metafisiche sull’essere e che trova nell’amicizia la 
sua espressione pil forte e pregnante. Questa ontologia rivela, quindi, |’ipotesi 
che la rappresentativita dell’essere sia stata misconosciuta nella cultura 
contemporanea ed assoggettata ad una progressiva disumanizzazione, causa 
remota, in ultima analisi, degli stermini di massa che hanno attraversato la storia 
europea del XX secolo. In questo senso, Levi si pone contro una metafisica 
dell’essere per riscoprire e riproporre quei valori fondativi dell’umanesimo 
assieme alla centralita dell’amore come premessa di una pienezza dell’essere.”” 
Da qui nasce anche |’esigenza di rendere quei valori accessibili, di calarli, cioé, 


° Quello di Levi é un sapere pratico che tuttavia non scade mai in un semplice 
pragmatismo dell’essere ma che basa sul vissuto la sua valenza affettiva. Mi sembra che 
sia proprio questo che Roberto Ciccarelli pone in risalto: “Quello [di Levi] é un sapere 
pratico che definisce I’intero modo di vivere del narratore. Le competenze misurano cid 
che egli ¢ capace di fare in un determinato momento, ma correggono esperienza dopo 
esperienza la direzione delle sue azioni verso una loro pil adeguata efficacia. In questo 
modo, il rapporto tra l’esperienza e la lingua, tra il metodo razionale e la necessita 
biologica, tra l’intelligenza teorica e quella pratica viene ridefinito. Alla base dell’azione, 
del fare, esiste un corpo. Tra il sapere e |’agire si estende uno spazio fisiologico. Quella 
del racconto non é un’esperienza condotta sotto la guida di un ‘io’, di una ‘coscienza’, di 
un ‘linguaggio’, bensi é l’esito di un ‘evento’ che permette |’incontro vitale tra il corpo e 
il mondo. II sapere pratico del narratore-Levi, allora, deriva da un lavoro cosciente che ha 
origine dall’incontro del suo corpo con un mondo estraneo che lo modifica, ma di cui lo 
stesso corpo s’impadronisce contemporaneamente. La narrazione é anche gnoseologia: 
essa istituisce un criterio di conoscenza partendo da una dimensione ‘bassa’ della vita di 
un uomo, quello dell’empiria. Il soggetto di questo sapere pratico ¢ dunque un soggetto 
affettivo” (107). In questo senso, Levi é aiutato da quella predisposizione alla pietas 
caratteristica dell’ebraismo che trova nei valori dell’umanesimo la sua attuazione pit 
incisiva: “La pietas ebraica sembra in tal senso assolvere a quella funzione di 
retroguardia che Pasolini ha assegnato alla letteratura, dicendo che la sua missione é 
quella di fermarsi presso i caduti e i feriti di un esercito in fuga, di dar da bere agli 
assetati e curare i feriti. Le testimonianze della letteratura del ghetto sono infatti quasi 
sempre testimonianze del passato, ricalco e recupero di generazioni andate” (Magris 41). 
Per Belpoliti, “la testimonianza [per Primo Levi] vale in quanto veritiera, mentre lo 
scrittore manipola la realta per scrivere, l’adatta facendo uso della finzione” (138). Ed 
infine, anche per Adorno c’é bisogno, dopo Auschwitz, di un pensiero che “si sporchi le 
mani” per poter rimanere nella storia (331; la traduzione in italiano é mia). 





| 
' 
. 
| 


La memoria e I|’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 299 


in una realta effettuale in cui possano trovare una loro applicazione pedagogica e 
di dispiegarsi come capisaldi irrinunciabili dell’educazione al rispetto dell’ essere 
umano.”! Levi aveva ben in mente gli effetti devastanti sulla mentalita tedesca 
operata dalla scuola e dalla propaganda nazionalsocialiste e di questa 
consapevolezza si trova un’eco nel romanzo. Alla domanda, “Perché i tedeschi 
vi vogliono uccidere tutti?” rivolta da un tenente polacco a Mendel, questi 
risponde: 


E difficile da spiegare. [...] Bisognerebbe capire i tedeschi, e io non ci sono mai riuscito. I 
tedeschi pensano che un ebreo valga meno di un russo e un russo meno di un inglese, e 
che un tedesco valga pit di tutti; pensano anche che quando un uomo vale piu di un altro 
uomo, ha il diritto di farne quello che vuole, anche di farlo schiavo o di ucciderlo. Forse 
non tutti sono convinti, ma sono queste le cose che gli insegnano a scuola, e sono queste 
le cose che dice la loro propaganda. 

(Se non ora, quando? 187) 


Ma l’azione educativa prospettata da Levi andava salvaguardata perché i 
principi e i valori dell’umanesimo sono intrinsecamente fragili e sempre 
sottoposti al rischio permanente di un risorgente totalitarismo in agguato od alle 
facili prese del negazionismo storico e dei suoi tentativi di revisione. Da qui 
deriva anche |’amara accettazione di una realta effettuale dominata, nei suoi 
risvolti ultimi, da un conflitto permanente. “Guerra é sempre” verrebbe da dire, 
parafrasando la terribile affermazione di Mordo Nahum in La tregua, e guerra é 
sempre anche per i partigiani di Levi, il quale sembra incline, in questo senso, ad 
un pessimismo storico di fondo: 


“[...] forse ognuno di noi é il Caino di qualche Abele”, afferma Mendel, “lo abbatte in 
mezzo al suo campo senza saperlo, per mezzo delle cose che gli fa, delle cose che gli 
dice, e delle cose che gli dovrebbe dire e non gli dice.” 

(Se non ora, quando? 53) 


Eppure é vero che anche questo duro risvolto della realta contiene in sé una 
costruzione propositiva che, a dispetto dei termini assoluti di un conflitto 
permanente, esprime il tentativo di configurare una immagine degli ebrei nella 
seconda guerra mondiale protesa a dissociarsi, almeno provvisoriamente, dal 
paradigma dominante — ma anche delimitante — dell’ebreo con |’ Hafilinge. 
Forse intuendo i limiti che il suo stesso ruolo di testimone a volte poteva 
imporgli, Levi intende ribaltare, con questo libro, le implicazioni inevitabili 
insite nell’eredita della Shoah, di un popolo, cioé, che si era lasciato docilmente 


21 Cosi scrive Levi in proposito: “La pressione che un moderno Stato totalitario pud 
esercitare sull’individuo é paurosa. Le sue armi sono sostanzialmente tre: la propaganda 
diretta, 0 camuffata da educazione, da istruzione, da cultura popolare; lo sbarramento 
opposto al pluralismo delle informazioni; il terrore” (J sommersi e i salvati 18). 


300 Giuseppe Tosi 


sterminare rinunciando alla propria storia e alla propria identita, e offre 
un’angolazione differente che se non si pone in alternativa vuole quantomeno 
affiancarsi alla versione storica ufficiale, tramite la ricostruzione della 
partecipazione attiva degli ebrei sul versante orientale del conflitto.”” 

Da questa rivalutazione della partisanka (lotta partigiana) ebraica, ignorata o 
poco conosciuta, deriva anche la consapevolezza, per Primo Levi, di una 
ritrovata presenza storica del popolo ebraico che culmina, infine, in un evento 
storico di eccezionale importanza quale la creazione dello stato di Israele. Levi 
riconosceva che la nascita d’Israele aveva segnato la realizzazione di 
“un’esistenza totale ebraica, i cui segni distintivi sono la terra, la lingua e un 
contesto sociale autonomo” (Yehoshua 59). I] merito di una tale fondazione 
travalicava il significato stesso della pit importante realizzazione della storia 
ebraica moderna. Essa aveva posto i soprawvissuti della Shoah al riparo da una 
depressione distruttiva ed aveva segnato un punto di raccordo e congiunzione 
delle varie diaspore ebraiche disseminate per il mondo. Eppure, nonostante 
questo, non era tuttavia scontato che il nuovo stato costituisse l’approdo univoco 
degli ultimi duemila anni di storia ebraica, e non era affatto sicuro che questa 
terra sarebbe stata come la casa di Abramo, aperta e tollerante, come, in Se non 
ora, quando? Mendel e i suoi mostrano di credere. Che lo stesso autore nutrisse 
dei dubbi in tal senso é testimoniato da una sua intervista nella quale confessa di 
aver rappresentato Israele come un ideale, “una terra che in realta non esiste” 
(Anissimov 343). 

Un’affermazione di questo genere, apriva tuttavia degli scenari 
imprevedibili ai quali Primo Levi sapeva, probabilmente, di non essere in grado 
di offrire un’alternativa. Se la fondazione di Israele, pur con quei caratteri di 
svolta epocale che rivestiva, si era dimostrata inadeguata a comprendere tutte le 
istanze di identita provenienti dai sopravvissuti sradicati, altrettanto si doveva 
dire di quel misto di ideologie facenti capo al sionismo, che in Se non ora, 
quando? riaffiora qua e 1a nei discorsi della banda di Gedale. Sionismo é 
certamente |’aspirazione del popolo ebraico, sopravvissuta a duemila anni di 
diaspora, a un ritorno nella terra d’origine. Ma il percorso di trasformazione che 
parte da una identita ebraica che si riconosce in una prospettiva di tipo 
messianico ed approda ad un movimento politico di liberazione nazionale, 
costituisce storicamente una consapevolezza, via via sempre pit evidente, 


2 <7 evi could not help being fascinated by these young men and women, all in their 
teens, their parents butchered by the Nazis, yet who had managed not only to survive but 
to put up resistance to their people’s murderers. Their action exploded the notions that the 
Jews had offered no resistance and had let themselves be herded like cattle to the 
slaughter. There is no doubt that Levi, who had been captured before he could learn how 
to handle a weapon or had taken a single action, would have wanted their example. Those 
young people proved that, where it was possibile, the Jews had resisted, as they did in 
Warsaw, Vilnius, Byalistok, Riga, Minsk, and even inside the extermination camps: in 
Auschwitz, Sobibor and Treblinka” (Anissimov 338). 








La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 301 


“dell’impossibilita di essere normale dell’ebreo in Europa” (Yehoshua 83) e del 
fallimento dei molteplici tentativi di integrazione alle varie latitudini. Nascendo 
da una connotazione negativa — vale a dire da cid che non si é — il sionismo 
evidenzia tutti i suoi limiti e pur indicando un obiettivo preciso si frantuma 
laddove tenta di costruire un’identita ebraica nuova e credibile. Nemmeno 
Gedale e i suoi sembrano prenderlo troppo sul serio: 


I componenti si proclamavano sionisti, ma di tendenze svariate, con tutte le sfumature 
che si possono inserire fra il nazionalismo ebraico, |’ortodossia marxista, |’ortodossia 
religiosa, |’egualitarismo anarchico e il ritorno tolstoiano alla terra, che ti redimera se tu 
la redimi. 

(Se non ora, quando? 112) 


“[...] ci puoi chiamare socialisti” dice Gedale “ma non siamo diventati partigiani per le 
nostre idee politiche.” 
(Se non ora, quando? 183) 


Quale futuro poteva allora prospettarsi per i sopravvissuti in esilio, quale 
nuova forma di identita assumere e a quali nuovi riferimenti culturali ispirarsi? 
Questi problemi erano anche acuiti dalla consapevolezza di Primo Levi di 
trovarsi di fronte ad uno di quegli eventi storici irreversibili. La distruzione della 
civilta aschenazita aveva rappresentato una perdita di portata universale per tutti 
gli ebrei della diaspora, inclusi quelli assimilati dell’occidente a cui le dittature 
prima, e le deportazioni poi, avevano brutalmente imposto una presa di 
coscienza della propria identita. Questo brusco risveglio era avvenuto sia nel 
mezzo di solitudini individuali che nel moltiplicarsi di esperienze nazionali che 
avevano privato gli ebrei occidentali di quegli indispensabili strumenti culturali 
o religiosi adatti per una ridefinizione delle proprie radici. Forse una tempestiva 
scoperta della civilta aschenazita, ed una rivalutazione dei suoi valori religiosi e 
comunitari, avrebbe potuto costituire le premesse per la salvaguardia di una 
identita ebraica, comune e condivisa. Ma adesso era troppo tardi, ed il 
rammarico di Levi si esprime, ancora una volta in via allegorica, come 
l’episodio di Francine, nel libro, sembra testimoniare: 


Alle domande di Gedale e degli altri, Francine rispondeva con volubilita nervosa. Era 
stata infermiera, si; aveva compassione per le malate, ma qualche volta le picchiava. Non 
per far loro del male, solo per difendersi, non sapeva come spiegare, difendersi dalle loro 
richieste, dai loro lamenti. Lei sapeva del gas, tutte le anziane sapevano, ma non lo diceva 
alle nuove arrivate, non avrebbe servito a niente. Scappare? Una pazzia: scappare dove? 
E lei, poi, che parlava male il tedesco e niente il polacco? 
— Vieni con noi, — le disse Sissl, — adesso tutto é finito, sarai il nostro medico. 
—E fra qualche mese nascera anche un bambino. Mio figlio, — aggiunse Isidor. 
— Non sono come voi, — rispose Francine, — io torno in Francia, é il mio paese. 

(Se non ora, quando? 219) 


302 Giuseppe Tosi 


In questo senso, il tentativo di ricreare una coscienza comune dell’essere 
ebreo svaniva nel momento stesso in cui la molteplicita delle varie esperienze 
nazionali prendeva il sopravvento sul progetto politico in corso e questo minava 
alla base la ridefinizione stessa dell’identita ebraica. Anche il ricorso alla 
tradizione mostrava tutti i suoi limiti, quella tradizione secondo la quale é ebreo 
chi é figlio di madre ebrea o si é convertito secondo le regole. La tradizione 
ebraica assegna ad ogni singolo ebreo il ruolo di “testimone di un monoteismo 
integrale” (Yehoshua 30). Un ruolo riconosciuto subito come gravoso e foriero 
di ostilita da parte di altri popoli. Un ruolo “vissuto come una sorta di destino da 
ricevere con responsabilita e da trasmeitere con rigore lungo il corso delle 
generazioni, fino all’avvento di un’era messianica capace di ricondurre |’intera 
umanita ai comuni valori fondamentali” (Zevi 11). Ma come era possibile allora 
che tra gli stessi ebrei della diaspora non era pit possibile quella comprensione 
tacita che, al di 1a di forme e abitudini sociali ormai consolidate, permette ancora 
di riconoscersi ed intendersi? Non era forse vero che lo stesso Primo Levi era 
tornato in Italia e non in Palestina e che si era forse quietamente identificato tra 
gli ospiti italiani della banda di Gedale a Milano? 


Chi era tutta quella gente? Erano proprio ebrei, lui e sua moglie? E la casa era la loro? 
Non erano venuti i tedeschi, anche a Milano? Come si erano salvati, loro e tutte le belle 
cose che si vedevano intorno? Tutti gli ebrei italiani erano ricchi come loro? O tutti gli 
italiani? Tutti avevano case belle cosi? L’ospite lo guardé con una faccia strana, quasi 
che Mendel avesse fatto domande stupide 0 poco opportune, e gli rispose con pazienza, 
come si fa con i bambini non tanto svegli. Ma certo, loro erano ebrei, tutti quelli che si 
chiamano S. sono ebrei. Gli ospiti no, non tutti: ma é poi una faccenda cosi importante? 
(Se non ora, quando? 252-53) 


Tutti questi elementi di disagio sono riconducibili al trauma iniziale dello 
sradicamento, della spersonalizzazione derivante da una storia-esilio e della 
conseguente perdita di una memoria personale e collettiva. Una volta privata 
dell’elemento consolidante ed equilibratore della memoria, l’identita non é pit 
capace di rappresentarsi e fatalmente |’individuo collide con la realta del mondo. 
Il senso di incomprensione e di isolamento, generati dal contatto con una realta 
aliena ed infinitamente distante dalla propria condizione, tende ad essere vissuto 
come minaccia o come irrealta. L’esperienza violenta dello sradicamento, 
inoltre, si sottrae ai normali schemi di riferimento e mentre da un lato si fissa per 
sempre nella memoria, dall’altro lato appare come un dato irreale ed 
impersonale. Lo sradicamento, vale a dire la tragica rottura della continuita 
dell’esistenza, si articola come un dato complesso e contraddittorio che 
assoggetta l’individuo ad un costante rimando all’evento luttuoso estraniandolo, 
al tempo stesso, dal mondo fenomenico mentre gli fa confondere la realta con i 





La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 303 


fantasmi della mente.” 

Da qui il senso dell’irreale che per forza di cose esula da qualsiasi schema 
ordinario di interpretazione del mondo; da qui lo smarrimento, la perdita 
dell’orientamento esistenziale che spinge, come nel caso di uno dei protagonisti 
del libro, alla disperazione e alla ricerca della morte: “Leonid non voleva andare 
in nessun luogo, o per meglio dire non sapeva dove voleva andare, e non sapeva 
neppure se voleva andare da qualche parte, o fare qualsiasi cosa” (Se non ora, 
quando? 23). 

Sebbene costantemente animato dalla sua volonta di testimone, eppure 
confortato da un rigoroso pessimismo che agiva come argine dalle illusioni 
troppo facili, Primo Levi aveva intravisto l’impossibilita di portare a 
compimento il quesito iniziale del libro. Si pud e si deve dare l’avvio ad una 
svolta, si deve agire nel qui ed ora non solo per preservare la propria dignita di 
essere umano ma anche per non declinare mai al ruolo gravoso che la Shoah 
aveva necessariamente imposto: quello di non dimenticare, per impedire che 
lorrore potesse riaffacciarsi nella storia. Ripercorrendo idealmente il lungo 
itinerario delle bande partigiane, a cui avrebbe certamente desiderato unirsi, 
Levi ristabilisce un’unita di destino che chiarifica a se stesso e agli altri il senso 
di una scelta, la rivolta contro l’orrore, che ha modificato strutturalmente 
l’esistenza ebraica. Ma lo stesso Levi aveva dovuto ammettere che la guerra 
l’avevano vinta loro, quei tedeschi che pure erano fuggiti davanti ai partigiani 
ebrei vestiti di laceri uniformi e armati di armi rubate. Li avevano privati della 
loro storia, avevano calpestato la loro dignita, li avevano derubati della loro 
identita e li avevano ricacciati in un esilio perpetuo. Nel qui ed ora di quei 
profughi, sopravvissuti e partigiani che dai confini d’Italia scendevano verso i 
porti per imbarcarsi si intravedeva solo l’inizio di un lunghissimo processo di 
ricostruzione che certamente non avrebbe evitato altre guerre e altri dolori. 

L’ultima immagine del libro si chiude proprio con la vita che sembra 
ricominciare con la nascita di un bambino, la vita che ritorna nei trent’anni 
esausti di Mendel: 


A trent’anni la vita pud ricominciare. Come un libro, quando hai finito il primo volume. 
Ricominciare da dove? Da qui, da oggi, da quest’alba milanese che sorge dietro i vetri 
smerigliati: da stamattina. Questo é un buon luogo per cominciare a vivere. 

(Se non ora, quando? 258) 


Eppure, come un memento mori, la prima bomba atomica si staglia sul giornale 


3 Lo sradicamento produce la scissione irreparabile tra cid che lo ha causato e cid che é 
attuale, come realta fenomenica, nel presente dell’individuo. Come afferma Agamben, 
cid che é accaduto nel passato “appare ai superstiti come |’unica cosa vera e, come tale, 
assolutamente indimenticabile; dall’altra, questa verita ¢, esattamente nella stessa misura, 
inimmaginabile cioé irriducibile agli elementi reali che la costituiscono” (8). 


304 Giuseppe Tosi 


nel suo silenzio assordante, a ricordare che la guerra, nonostante tutto, 
continua.”* 


Georgetown University 





Opere citate 


Adorno Theodore W., Negative Dialectics, trad. E. B. Ashton, New York, Continuum, 
1973. 

Agamben Giorgio, Quel che resta di Auschwitz. L’archivio e il testimone, Torino, Bollati- 
Boringhieri, 1998. 

Anissimov Myriam, Primo Levi. Tragedy of an Optimist, Woodstock, The Overlook 
Press, 2000. 

Belpoliti Marco, e Gordon Robert, a c. di, The Voice of Memory. Primo Levi. Interviews, 
1961-1987, New York, The New Press, 2001. 

Belpoliti Marco, ac. di, Primo Levi. Conversazioni e interviste, Torino, Einaudi, 1997. 

Bodei Remo, Scomposizioni. Forme dell’ individuo moderno, Torino, Einaudi, 1987. 

Ciccarelli Roberto, “Primo Levi. Del pensiero narrativo”, Moliterni 63-110 

Ferrero Ernesto, a cura di, Primo Levi: un’antologia della critica, Torino, Einaudi, 1997. 

Goffman Erving, La vita quotidiana come rappresentazione, Bologna, I] Mulino, 1997. 

Heidegger Martin, Being and Time, trad. John Macquarrie e Edward Robinson, New 
York, Harper-Collins, 1962. 

Jedlowski Paolo, Memoria, esperienza e modernita, Milano, Angeli, 1989. 

Kerényi Karoli, La religione antica, Milano, Adelphi, 2001. 

Levi Primo, L’altrui mestiere, Torino, Einaudi, 1998. 

, La ricerca delle radici, Torino, Einaudi, 1997. 


4 La conclusione di Se non ora, quando? riunisce i motivi conduttori dell’etica di Levi. 
Da una parte l’enfasi posta sulla vita e sulla dignita umana come valori irrinunciabili; 
dall’altra il monito costante a vigilare contro ogni forma di risorgente totalitarismo da cui 
deriva la necessita della testimonianza e della sua divulgazione. In questo senso va 
interpretato anche il pessimismo di Levi, la sua angoscia di fronte ad ogni forma di 
negazionismo storico che potesse accogliere la terribile profezia dei nazisti nel campo di 
Auschwitz: “In qualunque modo questa guerra finisca, la guerra contro di voi |’abbiamo 
vinta noi; nessuno di voi rimarra per portare testimonianza, ma se anche qualcuno 
scampasse, il mondo non gli credera. Forse ci saranno sospetti, discussioni, ricerche di 
storici, ma non ci saranno certezze, perché noi distruggeremo le prove insieme con voi. E 
quando anche qualche prova dovesse rimanere, e qualcuno di voi sopravvivere, la gente 
dira che i fatti che voi raccontate sono troppo mostruosi per essere creduti: dira che sono 
esagerazioni della propaganda alleata, e credera a noi, che negheremo tutto, e non a voi. 
La storia dei Lager, saremo noi a dettarla” (J sommersi e i salvati 18). Da qui, la guerra 
che continua, o la “guerra é sempre”, il monito minaccioso ed inevitabile di Mordo 
Nahum in La tregua. 





La memoria e l’identita in Se non ora, quando? di Primo Levi 305 


, [l sistema periodico, Torino, Einaudi, 1994. 
, ! racconti, Torino, Einaudi, 1996. 
, sommersi e i salvati, Torino, Einaudi, 1991. 
, Se non ora, quando?, Torino, Einaudi, 1992. 
, Se questo é un uomo. La tregua, Torino, Einaudi, 1989. 
Magris Claudio, Lontano da dove. Philip Roth e la tradizione ebraico-orientale, Torino, 
Einaudi, 1971. 
Mattioda Enrico, a cura di, A/ di qua del bene e del male. La visione del mondo di Primo 
Levi, Milano, Franco Angeli, 2000. 
Meghnagi David, “La vicenda ebraica. Primo Levi e la scrittura”, Ferrero 289-299. 
Moliterni Fabio, Ciccarelli Roberto, Lattanzio Alessandro, a c. di, Primo Levi. L’a-topia 
letteraria. Il pensiero narrativo. La scrittura e l’assurdo, Napoli, Liguori Editore, 
2000. 
Oliverio Alberto, Ricordi individuali, memorie collettive, Torino, Einaudi, 1994. 
Panofsky Erwin, La prospettiva come ‘Forma simbolica’ e altri scritti, Milano, 
Feltrinelli, 1999. 
Segre Cesare, “I romanzi e le poesie”, Ferrero 91-116. 
Porro Mario, “Un etologo nel Lager”, Mattioda 33-45. 
Rossi Paolo, // passato, la memoria,  oblio, Bologna, Il Mulino, 1991. 
Tabboni Simonetta, La rappresentazione sociale del tempo, Milano, Angeli, 1989. 
Taylor Charles, Radici dell’io. La costruzione dell’ identita moderna, Milano, Feltrinelli, 
1993. 
Vallabrega Paola, “Primo Levi e la tradizione ebraico-orientale”, Ferrero 263-88. 
Yehoshua B. Abraham, Ebreo, Israeliano, Sionista: concetti da precisare, trad. 
Alessandro Guetta, Roma, Edizioni e/o, 2001. 
Zevi Luca, “Introduzione”, Yehoshua 7-17. 








Lucienne Kroha 


The Same and/or Different: 
Narcissism and Exile in Giorgio Bassani’s Novels 


Perhaps the best characterization of the exile motif by Giorgio Bassani in his 
masterful first-person trilogy (subsequently included in the collection entitled // 
romanzo di Ferrara) is to be found in the first novel, Gli occhiali d ‘oro.’ The 
narrator is recalling his return to Ferrara from Riccione, after the summer 
holidays and just before the passage of the 1938 Race Laws which were to strip 
the Jews of Italy of their civil rights almost overnight.” Not surprisingly, the 
much-anticipated “rientro” turns out to be as painful as the days spent on the 
beach, during which the campaign against the Jews in the Italian press had 
reached a frenzied peak. Ferrara is no longer the protective cocoon it had once 
been, and the young protagonist is no longer at home in it. The Fascist Gino 
Cariati and his cohorts now glare at him regularly from the tables in front of the 
Caffé della Borsa, while his best friend Nino Bottecchiari is contemplating 
joining the Fascist party for career reasons and appears totally indifferent to his 
plight, failing to make even the slightest mention of any sadness at the recent 
turn of events: 


Fino a pochi mesi prima io non avevo perduto la domenicale uscita delle dodici e mezzo 
da San Carlo o dal duomo, ed anche oggi, in fondo — riflettevo —, non I’avrei perduta. 
Ma poteva bastarmi? Oggi era diverso. Non mi trovavo pil laggit, mescolato agli altri, 
confuso in mezzo a tutti gli altri nella solita attesa tra beffarda e ansiosa. Addossato al 
portone del Palazzo Arcivescovile, confinato in un angolo della piazza (la presenza al 
mio fianco di Nino Bottecchiari aumentava se mai la mia amarezza), mi sentivo tagliato 


fuori, irrimediabilmente un intruso. 
(226) 


Only by looking down on the cityscape and the Jewish cemetery from a 
raised vantage point does he manage to find some solace: 


Guardavo al campo sottostante, in cui erano sepolti i nostri morti. [...] Quand’ecco, 
guardando [...] al vasto paesaggio urbano che mi si mostrava di lassu in tutta la sua 


'! The three first-person novels are Gli occhiali d’oro (1958), Il giardino dei Finzi- 
Contini ((1962), and Dietro la porta (1964), all initially published by Einaudi. They were 
subsequently revised and gathered together with other writings in the collection entitled 
Il romanzo di Ferrara (1974). All the citations in this essay are from the revised 1980 
edition of the Romanzo di Ferrara, and all page numbers refer to this volume. 

? For an account of the fortunes of the Jews under Fascism see De Felice. 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


308 Lucienne Kroha 


estensione, mi sentii d’un tratto penetrare da una gran dolcezza, da una pace e da una 
gratitudine tenerissime [...]. Mi era bastato recuperare |’antico volto materno della mia 
citta, riaverlo ancora una volta tutto per me, perché quell’atroce senso di esclusione che 
mi aveva tormentato nei giorni scorsi cadesse all’istante. II futuro di persecuzioni e di 
massacri che forse ci attendeva (fin da bambino ne avevo continuamente sentito parlare 
come di un’eventualita per noi ebrei sempre possibile) non mi faceva pid paura. 

(222) 


What I would like to call attention to is the description of the protagonist’s 
relationship to his city in the following sentence: “Mi era bastato recuperare 
l’antico volto materno della mia citta, riaverlo ancora una volta tutto per me, 
perché quell’atroce senso di esclusione che mi aveva tormentato nei giorni scorsi 
cadesse all’istante.” The “volto materno della citta,” complete with its soothing 
effect and its capacity to erase feelings of exclusion, evokes the completely 
imaginary sense of oneness that the infant can experience in the exclusivity of 
the narcissistic pre-oedipal relation with the mother, where each offers the other 
a perfect satisfaction of desire. While this relation is extremely important and 
constitutive of the child’s emerging identity as a subject, it is a stifling one and if 
unmediated leaves no room for growth and independence (Wright 315). 

In the Freudian paradigm, it is the oedipal crisis which provides this 
mediation: it forces the male child to recognize the difference between himself 
and his mother, and to embrace the “sameness” that connects him instead to the 
father. By making this identification and relinquishing the bond with the mother, 
he accomplishes the passage from “nature” to “culture,” but the memory of the 
maternal connection remains lodged in the unconscious, leaving behind a sense 
of nostalgia and loss — exile — that is a permanent facet of the human 
condition. This sense of loss and incompleteness provides the basis for much 
constructive action in the world: indeed, the acknowledgement of “difference” 
from the mother is the very motor of culture and society. Where this recognition 
of difference, this recognition of one’s “exile” from this early paradise fails to 
take place, paralysis of the will sets in. 

Paralysis of the will is a theme that runs across all three stories of the 
trilogy, and in all cases is associated with the theme of exile, or rather the failure 
to embrace exile. In Gli occhiali d’oro, the narrator tells the story of his and the 
dignified physician Dr. Fadigati’s parallel experiences of humiliation at the 
hands of the citizens of Ferrara, when their Judaism and homosexuality 
respectively become problematic. In both cases, paralysis of the will is the result 
of the difficulty of acknowledging one’s outsider status. Dr. Fadigati prefers to 
tolerate the insults of Ferrara’s citizens rather than to react and acknowledge his 
“difference.” As long as he turns a deaf ear and fails to react, he deludes himself 
into believing that he can avoid the isolation which eventually descends on him 
anyway, when he loses his position at the hospital. So, too, the young Jewish 
protagonist prefers to endure the indifference and offensive remarks of his peers 





The Same and/or Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 309 


rather than to speak up as a Jew and defend himself, since to do so would also 
mean acknowledging his own marginalization. 

The feeling of belonging to the mainstream of society that upper-middle 
class Jews enjoyed during the golden period of integration in post-Unification 
Italy had clearly dissipated, but to recognize that the sense of community was in 
fact an illusion and that acculturation did not necessarily mean acceptance was 
another matter. The young man’s problem is mirrored in that of the narrator, who 
is telling his story twenty years later. It is 1957, Italy is in the throes of 
attempting to reconstitute itself as a nation after the traumas of war, and again, 
speaking as a “Jew,” as part of a group that had been violated and massacred on 
the basis of its difference, is difficult. Burying the horrors of the past seems 
easier, and more in keeping with the prevailing discourse of reconciliation, but 
the price to be paid is the loss of one’s history. Bassani as a writer made his 
choice clearly, but his narrator is more reluctant and “comes out of the closet” as 
a Jew only halfway into his account of Dr. Fadigati’s tragic fate. For both the 
narrator and the protagonist, breaking the silence means stepping out of the 
fantasized inner circle and taking one’s place in the ghetto or, as it were, behind 
the barbed wire of the concentration camp: 


E mentre Nino pieno di disagio taceva, io sentivo nascere dentro me stesso con indicibile 
ripugnanza |’antico, atavico odio dell’ebreo nei confronti di tutto cid che fosse cristiano, 
cattolico, insomma goi. Goi, goim : che vergogna, che umiliazione, che ribrezzo, a 
esprimermi cosi! Eppure ci riuscivo gia — mi dicevo — : diventato simile a un qualsiasi 
ebreo dell’Europa orientale che non fosse mai vissuto fuori dal proprio ghetto. Pensavo 
anche al nostro, di ghetto, a via Mazzini, a via Vignatagliata, al vicolo-mozzo Torcicoda. 
In un futuro abbastanza vicino, loro, i goim, ci avrebbero costretti a brulicare di nuovo 1a, 
per le anguste, tortuose viuzze di quel misero quartiere medioevale da cui fin dei conti 
non eravamo venuti fuori che settanta, ottanta anni fa. Ammassati l’uno sull’altro dietro i 
cancelli come tante bestie impaurite, non ne saremmo evasi mai piu. 

(226-27) 


As he tells his story of the terrible recognition of his fate as a Jew and only a 
Jew, intertwined with the story of Fadigati’s fall from grace once he openly takes 
a sadistic and opportunistic young lover, slowly it emerges that his relationship 
to the unfortunate doctor is fraught with tensions and ambiguities, even now that 
he is dead and so many years have passed. Frequently, when he speaks of 
Fadigati’s suffering at the hands of the citizens of Ferrara, it is difficult to tell 
with whom he sides. Sometimes his voice is that of the outsider, sympathetic to 
Fadigati’s plight; sometimes it is that of the bourgeois benpensante, scandalized 
by Fadigati’s unbecoming conduct, and especially by his refusal to “play by the 
rules,” to hide his homosexuality so as not to offend his co-citizens. Gradually 
the source of the narrator ’s unease in speaking of Fadigati becomes clear. Just as 
he had difficulty acknowledging his Jewishness then and still does now, so too 
he had difficulty then and still does now acknowledging his shared experience as 


310 Lucienne Kroha 


a Jew with Fadigati’s as a homosexual. It is this difficulty, this enduring 
ambivalence toward Fadigati precisely because of his homosexuality that the 
reader comes to understand as the ultimate irony in this story.’ 

So fraught with discomfort is this identification for the narrator that at a 
crucial moment in the story — he is recalling an afternoon in Riccione when he 
was about to leave the house to meet Fadigati — he gratuitously calls attention to 
his own heterosexual erotic experiences, clearly to dispel any doubts in the 
reader as to which side of the divide he is on and to reduce his own anxieties as a 
narrator now recalling that afternoon: 


Ero vestito da tennis. Con una mano tenevo la bicicletta dal manubrio, con |’altra la 
racchetta. Tuttavia [mio padre] mi domando: 
“Dove vai?” 
Due estati prima, sempre a Riccione, ad una quindicina di giorni dall’aver trionfato 
nell’esame di maturita ero finito a letto (ed era stata la prima volta, in assoluto!) con una 
trentenne signora milanese, conoscente occasionale di mia madre. In dubbio se essere 
fiero 0 preoccupato della mia avventura, per due mesi buoni il papa non aveva perduto 
uno solo dei miei movimenti. 

(217) 


When Fadigati calls him at home one day, really only in search of company 
since he is now a complete outcast, the protagonist’s anxiety outweighs any 
sympathy he may be feeling for him: 


Parld ancora: della cagna, degli animali in genere, e dei loro sentimenti, che sono cosi 
simili a quelli degli uomini — disse —, anche se, “forse,” pili semplici, pit. direttamente 
sottomessi all’imperio della legge naturale. Quanto a me, mi sentivo ormai sulle spine. 
Preoccupato che mio padre e mia madre, di certo tutti orecchi, capissero con chi stavo 
conversando, mi limitavo a rispondere a monosillabi. Speravo anche, in questo modo, di 
indurlo ad abbreviare. Ma niente. Pareva che non gli riuscisse di  staccarsi 


dall’apparecchio. 
(238) 


Fadigati’s isolation has becomes absolute, in contrast with the narrator’s 
relative isolation as part of a community of outcasts. The doctor’s suicide by 
drowning in the waters of the Po takes place after the protagonist’s failure to 
keep an appointment with him, and we can see that this failure still haunts the 
narrator now, years later. Though he continues to deny his part in the tragedy, 
the image of the black magnolia tree in the downpour betrays his sense of guilt: 


Piovve tutto sabato e tutto domenica. Anche per questo motivo, forse, scordai la 


promessa di Fadigati. Non mi telefond e nemmeno io gli telefonai: ma per pura 
dimenticanza, ripeto, non gia di proposito. Pioveva senza un attimo di tregua. Dalla mia 


* For a detailed analysis of this aspect of the novel see Kroha. 











The Same and/or Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 311 


camera, guardavo attraverso la finestra gli alberi del giardino. La pioggia torrenziale 
sembrava accanirsi particolarmente contro il pioppo, i due olmi, il castagno, ai quali 
veniva via via strappando le ultime foglie. Soltanto la nera magnolia, intatta e gocciolante 
in modo incredibile, godeva visibilmente dei rovesci d’acqua che la investivano. 

(239) 


In this first novel, then, the failure to react to antisemitic attacks, thus 
acknowledging “difference” and hence “exile,” is put in parallel with a failure on 
the young man’s part to be sufficiently secure in his own heterosexual 
masculinity to reach out to Fadigati without fear. The young man’s crippling 
desire for the narcissistic and reassuring mirroring of the “maternal city,” to 
erase the hostility of the environment, alludes to an unconscious enduring pre- 
oedipal stance, which is at the root of both his homosexual panic and his 
passivity in the face of the adversity which has befallen him as a Jew. 

Passivity is a major theme in // giardino dei Finzi-Contini as well. The 
Finzi-Continis refuse to recognize, or at least to react to what is going on in the 
world around them, and it is this attitude that eventually leads to their 
deportation at the hands of the Nazis and their collaborators. Their apparent 
indifference to the anti-Jewish campaign is remarked upon frequently by the 
narrator, who notes not only Prof. Ermanno’s focus on Jewish genealogy and the 
past to the detriment of the current crisis, but also the family’s general 
indifference to the illness that finally kills the son Alberto, a lifeless repressed 
homosexual. We never know exactly what the cause of this indifference might 
have been, since the story is told exclusively from the narrator’s limited 
perspective. But everything we find out about the Finzi-Continis leads us to 
believe that the source of their paralysis is indeed their failure to accept their 
condition as “exiles,” in other words as Jews. 

This may seem paradoxical at first, since they themselves seem to have 
chosen exile, for they are cut off from both Gentile and Jewish society and keep 
to themselves in their magnificent home with its surrounding garden: 


Chissa come nasce e perché una vocazione alla solitudine. Sta il fatto che lo stesso 
isolamento, la medesima separazione di cui i Finzi-Contini avevano circondato i loro 
defunti [a reference to the long description of the their family tomb which opens their 
story], circondava anche |’altra casa che essi possedevano, quella in fondo a corso Ercole 
I d’Este. 

(256) 


Much to the annoyance of more mainstream Jews like the protagonist’s 
father, who sees them as parvenus who have let their quick ascent from the 
ghetto go to their heads, they have surrounded themselves with the trappings of 
the Gentile aristocracy, so much so that they live in a former Este Renaissance 
villa reminiscent of Ferrara’s once prominent courtly society. Their wish, in 
other words, is not to belong to the productive and progressive sectors of post- 


312 Lucienne Kroha 


Unification society nor even to the landed bourgeoisie, but to count themselves 
among the nobility of the nation, such is the extent to which they have become 
victims of the mirage of upward mobility promised by the emancipation of the 
Jews in the New Italy: 


Che idea da nuovi ricchi, che idea bislacca! [...] certo, certo, ammetteva [mio padre]: gli 
ex-proprietari del luogo, i marchesi Avogli, avevano nelle vene sangue “bluissimo”: orto 
e rovine inalberavano ab antiquo il molto decorativo nome di Barchetto del Duca [...]. 
E pazienza loro, i genitori, che appartenevano a un’epoca diversa [...] pazienza 
specialmente lei, Josette Artom, del baroni Artom del ramo di Treviso (donna magnifica, 
ai suoi di: bionda, gran petto, occhi celesti, e difatti la madre era di Berlino, una 
Olschky), la quale, oltre che stravedere per la casa Savoia al punto che nel maggio del 
’98, poco prima di morire, aveva preso |’ iniziativa di mandare un telegramma di plauso al 
generale Bava Beccaris, cannoneggiatore di quei poveri diavoli di socialisti e anarchici 
milanesi [...]. Il professor Ermanno e la signora Olga, tuttavia (lui un uomo di studi, lei 
una Herrera di Venezia, e cioé nata da famiglia sefardita ponentina molto buona, senza 
dubbio, perd piuttosto dissestata, e d’altronde osservantissima), che razza di persone si 
erano ficcati in mente di essere diventati, anche essi? Dei veri nobili? 

(259-60) 


It is to sustain the illusion of having ascended to the highest ranks of Italian 
society that they must keep out others: any confrontation with other Jews will 
remind them of their ghetto roots, which must be kept in abeyance, while 
confrontation with Gentiles will invariably bring home the truth of their 
“difference.” It is no coincidence that Bassani has chosen to emphasize the 
garden, for they have created an Eden before the Fall in which there is no 
“knowledge” and no awareness of “difference,” even in the face of the most 
brutal political and social realities. 

This narcissistic paradise is akin to the “maternal face” of Ferrara that the 
protagonist seeks as he looks down upon the Jewish cemetery in Gli occhiali 
d’oro. It mirrors the Finzi-Continis’ wishes perfectly, allowing them to lead the 
undisturbed lives of leisure and disinterested cultural pursuit that might have 
been their lot, had they really been born Renaissance Christian aristocrats. Once 
the race laws of November 1938 enter into effect, the Finzi-Continis do, it is 
true, allow other Jews into their enclave and they do abandon their own private 
Spanish synagogue to join the Italian synagogue as a gesture of solidarity, but 
there is no action on their part otherwise, and no discussion of the events of the 
day. Their princely home and lush gardens become the theater of their dogged 
unwillingness to re-embrace the reality of their exile, their determination to 
sustain the fantasy of oneness with, and belonging to, a fantasized superior 
Gentile aristocracy. 

And it is this unwillingness that explains why the garden and the Finzi- 
Continis become the protagonist’s chosen refuge once he is banned from the 
tennis club, the public library, and his other haunts. The paralysis of the Finzi- 


The Same and/or Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 313 


Continis at this point corresponds to his own state of mind; unlike them, 
however, he is all too sensitive to the current crisis, but since he is unable to 
come to grips with it, their cocoon provides a welcome refuge from the radical 
possibility that he has become, like his forefathers, “just a Jew.” The gates to the 
artificial paradise of the Finzi-Continis open just as the doors of society, or at 
least of Italian mainstream and Fascist society, close. The stench of death 
pervades this false Eden, however, and is everywhere signified: in the 
professor’s obsession with genealogy and Jewish cemeteries, in the death of both 
male offspring (another male child had died earlier and is to be followed by 
Alberto), in the Emily Dickinson poem he translates for their daughter Micol. So 
too his attraction to Micdl proves to be a sterile one, but for reasons he even now 
has trouble fathoming. 

Bassani casts the protagonist’s relationship with the Finzi-Continis in the 
mold of the Freudian “family romance,” considered to be a phase in the 
adolescent or child’s gradual process of individuation. In this phase, the child, 
dissatisfied with his own parents, fantasizes that he is really the offspring of 
more satisfactory ones, sometimes, as Freud says in his essay on the Family 
Romance,” of aristocratic origin. The protagonist at this time is clearly unhappy 
with his father, whose denial of the situation of the Jews fills him with contempt. 
And yet, he is not able to work out a satisfactory reaction of his own and 
temporarily adopts the Finzi-Continis, to whose fascination he too had fallen 
prey as a young boy, as “worthier parents.” This “adoption” allows him 
ultimately to disengage both from his own family’s values as well as from those 
of the Finzi-Continis, and to embrace his “exile” with courage and fortitude (as 
is suggested by a reference to time subsequently spent in a Fascist prison). 

But before he can do so, he must come face to face with the beautiful Micol 
Finzi-Contini. In the encounter with her, he finds himself afflicted with the same 
paralysis that plagues him vis-a-vis the turn of events in the outside world. His 
romantic misadventures with Micol, who is constructed in his fantasies as a sort 
of Aryan-Jewish princess, provide the key, in this particular novel, to an 
understanding of the connection that Bassani wishes to create between exile and 
difference. At a superficial level Micdl exists as a locus of “non-difference” in 
the protagonist’s fantasies simply by virtue of her blonde good looks, her relaxed 
and urbane demeanour, her grace and skill at tennis. What could be farther from 
the image of the ghetto Jewess than this young woman, who provides the 
protagonist with the illusion that he is in the company of a beautiful Gentile 
aristocrat who also happens to be a Jew? In the garden-of-soon- to-be-horrors, 
all difference is suspended (not unlike the situation in Armida’s garden in 
Tasso’s Gerusalemme liberata ). 


* For a definition of this term and for an account of its appearance in Freud’s writings see 
“Family Romance” and “Oedipus Complex” in Laplanche and Pontalis 160-61 and 282- 
87. 


314 Lucienne Kroha 


Unfortunately, this suspension extends to his perception of her as a sexual 
being as well, or rather to his incapacity to perceive her as a sexual being. Years 
later, as he tells his story, he is still in the process of trying to understand why, 
one afternoon, when the perfect occasion to kiss her and thus declare his feelings 
for her presented itself, he was unable to overcome a paralysis that made it 
impossible. This failure, enshrined in words, scenes, images, and symbols 
fraught with meaning, is not to be confused with a mere momentary failure of 
nerve: 


Infinite volte nel corso dell’inverno, della primavera, e dell’estate che seguirono, tornai 
indietro a cid che tra Micol e me era accaduto (0 meglio, non accaduto) dentro la carozza 
prediletta dal vecchio Perotti. Se quel pomeriggio di pioggia nel quale era terminata d’un 
tratto la luminosa estate di San Martino del 38 io fossi riuscito perlomeno a dichiarami 
— pensavo con amarezza — forse le cose, tra noi, sarebbero andate diversamente da 
come erano andate. Parlarle, baciarla: era allora, quando tutto ancora poteva succedere — 
non cessavo di ripetermi — che avrei dovuto farlo! E dimenticavo di chiedermi 
l’essenziale: se in quel momento supremo, unico, irrevocabile, io fossi stato davvero in 
grado di tentare un gesto, una parola qualsiasi. 

(329) 


The answer to his question is provided, cryptically of course, by Micdl 
herself, for such is her role in his life, both temptress (Eve) and guide (Beatrice). 
They have been wandering in the garden and a sudden rainfall causes them to 
take refuge in the old carriage house which is now used for both the family car 
and general storage. In it, they see the old carriage, which is still the pride of 
Perotti the caretaker, the carriage that the narrator saw Micol and Alberto riding 
in as children and which seems to be endowed with an aura, embodying 
everything that was — and still is — special about the Finzi-Continis and their 
world: 


La carrozza attendeva davanti al portone del Guarini per ore e ore, non spostandosi che 
per cercare l’ombra. E bisogna dire che esaminare |’equipaggio da vicino, in tutti i 
particolari, dal cavallone poderoso di tanto in tanto calmamente scalciante, con la coda 
mozza e con la criniera tagliata corta, a spazzola, sino alla minuscola corona nobiliare 
che spiccava argentea sul fondo blu degli sportelli, ottenendo talora dall’indulgente 
cocchiere in tenuta bassa, ma assiso in serpa come su un trono, il permesso di montare su 
uno dei predellini laterali, e cid perché potessimo contemplare a nostro agio, il naso 
schiacciato contro il cristallo, l’interno tutto grigio, felpato, e in penombra (sembrava un 
salotto: in un angolo c’erano perfino dei fiori infilati dentro un esile vaso oblungo, a 
foggia di calice...), poteva essere anche questo un piacere, anzi lo era senz’altro: uno dei 
tanti avventurosi piaceri di cui sapevano esserci prodighe quelle meravigliose, 


adolescenti mattine di tarda primavera. 
(267) 


The importance of the carriage as a symbol in this novel is testified to not 





The Same and/or Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 315 


only by the length of its description and by the way in which the narration 
appears to caress it as it is being evoked, but by its repeated appearances in the 
text: 


Era proprio lui, il vecchio Perotti, giardiniere, cocchiere, chauffeur, portinaio, tutto, come 
aveva detto Micol: niente affatto mutato nel complesso dai tempi del Guarini, quando, 
assiso in serpa, aspettava impassibile che |’antro buio e minaccioso dal quale, impavidi, 
col sorriso sulle labbra, i suoi “signorini” erano stati inghiottiti, si decidesse una buona 
volta a restituirli, non meno sereni e sicuri di sé, alla vettura tutta cristalli, vernici, 
nichelature, stoffe felpate, legni squisiti — simili davvero a una teca preziosa — della cui 
conservazione e guida soltanto lui era responsabile. 

(302) 


Now, years later, they are sitting close together in the carriage which he so 
admires. The “moment” comes and goes. Nothing has happened. Micol has 
squirmed and moved into a corner of the carriage, suddenly appearing to feel 
cold. As if privy to a superior knowledge about him and about life in general, she 
launches into a complicated speech to cover up the awkwardness of the situation, 
and at the same time to express her annoyance at his boyish behaviour. She 
contrasts the carriage with an old canoe next to it. Both canoe and carriage have 
lost their function and yet the canoe faces this obsolescence, this “exile” with 
courage and dignity, while the feminized carriage hangs on for dear life to its 
glorious past: 


“Ha voglia, Perotti” diceva, “di spendere per questa specie di penoso rottame tanto tempo 
e tanto sugo di gomiti! No, da’ retta a me: qui, in questa semioscurita, uno pud anche 
mettersi a gridare al miracolo, ma fuori, alla luce naturale, non c’é niente da fare, infinite 
magagnette saltano subito all’occhio, la vernice qua e la é partita, i raggi e i mozzi delle 
ruote sono tutti un tarlo, il panno di questo sedile (adesso non puoi rendertene conto, ma 
te lo garantisco io) é ridotto in certi punti a una tela di ragno. Per cui mi domando: a che 
scopo tutta la struma di Perotti? Ne vale la pena? Lui, poveretto, vorrebbe strappare al 
papa il permesso di rinverniciare tutto quanto, restaurando e impastocchiando a suo 
piacere. Peré il papa nicchia, al solito, non si decide...” 

Tacque. Si mosse appena. 

“Guarda invece 1a il sandolino” prosegui, e mi indicava nel mentre, attraverso il vetro 
dello sportello che i nostri fiati cominciavano ad annebbiare, una bigia sagoma oblunga e 
scheletrica accostata alla parete opposta a quella occupata dallo scaffale dei pompelmi. 
“Guarda invece 1a il sandolino, e ammira, ti prego, con quanta onesta, dignita e coraggio 
morale, lui ha saputo trarre dalla propria assoluta perdita di funzione tutte le conseguenze 
che doveva. Anche le cose muoiono, caro mio. E dunque, se anche loro devono morire, 


tant’é meglio lasciarle andare. C’é molto pit stile, oltre tutto, ti sembra?” 
(327) 


This speech is the very nerve center of the novel. The carriage is a symbol 
with multiple possible referents in the context of Micdl’s words to him, and of 


316 Lucienne Kroha 


the novel as a whole. Both carriage and canoe have outlived their usefulness, are 
“in exile,” so to speak, but the manly canoe accepts its fate with all the 
consequences it entails. The feminine carriage, on the other hand, hangs on to a 
fantasized past and function that no longer pertain, much as the Finzi-Continis, 
perhaps, hang on anachronistically to the aristocratic past they have created for 
themselves, much as the Jews themselves hang on to an idea of themselves and 
their Jewishness which leads them to take refuge in study and in the passive 
cultivation of their illustrious past (see Prof. Ermanno’s obsessions) instead of 
fighting back in the present, much as the protagonist himself is hanging onto a 
mother-identified, “feminized” boyhood, and failing to relate as a man to both 
Micol and the events of the day. Micdl has outgrown him, just as the events of 
the day have left him behind in terms of what they now demand of him. It is not 
insignificant that the passages leading up to Micol’s speech, in which she and the 
protagonist are seen climbing into the carriage, evoke the stifling atmosphere of 
the narcissistic pre-oedipal mother-child relation: “{...] lo sportello si chiuse da 
solo con uno schiocco secco e preciso da tagliola. [...] Pareva davvero di 
trovarsi dentro un salottino: un piccolo salotto soffocante” (326); nor is it an 
accident that as she is about to launch into the carriage/canoe speech (she has 
grown tired of the protagonist’s continuing comments about how “new” the 
carriage still seems and has just exclaimed “non dire stupidaggini, per favore!” 
327), she suddenly appears much older to him: “Pareva di colpo invecchiata di 
dieci anni” (327). She then proceeds to give him her lesson, a lesson about 
sexual difference and about the serene, manly acceptance of exile as opposed to 
the clingy refusal to “let go of childish things.” 

The reasons for his inability to kiss her at that time, that is, to recognize the 
sexual difference between them, are soon made explicit in a dream he has. 
Before narrating the dream, he recalls a telephone conversation with Micdl, 
during which she described her room to him, and in particular her collection of 
Venetian glass objects, which she referred to as “lattimi”: 


“Lattimi? “ domandai. “Che roba ¢? Da mangiare?” 

“Ma no, no” piagnucold, inorridendo al solito della mia ignoranza. “Sono vetri. 
Bicchieri, calici, ampolle, ampolline, scatolucce: cosette, in genere scarti d’antiquariato. 
A Venezia li chiamano lattimi; fuori di Venezia opalines, anche flutes. Non puoi 
immaginare come io |’adori, questa roba. In proposito so letteralmente tutto. Interrogami, 


e vedrai.” 
(332) 


The dream seizes on the similarity between “lattimi” and “latticini.” First he 
describes the sense of bewilderment and unease he remembers feeling in the 
dream at finding her to be a fully grown woman and no longer the blonde child 
he remembered; then, suddenly, they are again in the famous carriage with 
Perotti and his wife as chaperones of sorts and, in the next sequence, in Micdl’s 





The Same and/or Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 317 
room, which is full of “roba da mangiare” (108): 


[...] giacché i lattimi non erano affatto gli oggetti di vetro di cui Micdl mi aveva 
raccontato, ma appunto come io avevo supposto, formaggi, piccole stillanti forme di 
cacio biancastro, a foggia di bottiglia. Ridendo, Micdl insisteva perché io provassi ad 
assaggiarne uno, dei suoi formaggi. Ed ecco si alzava sulle punte dei piedi, ecco stava per 
toccare col teso indice della mano destra uno tra quelli collocati pit in alto (quelli lassi 
erano i migliori — mi spiegava — i pit freschi), ma io no, non accettavo assolutamente, 
angosciato, oltre che dalla presenza del cane, dalla consapevolezza che fuori, mentre cosi 
discutevamo, la marea lagunare stava rapidamente montando. Se tardavo ancora un poco, 
l’acqua alta mi avrebbe bloccato, mi avrebbe impedito di uscire dalla sua camera senza 
farmi notare. 

(339) 


In this dream Micol has obviously become a maternal Eve, tempting the 
protagonist with her milk-derived products. And yet he resists, aware that he 
must leave the garden before the tide rises, although he is unable to do so: a very 
clear depiction of his dilemma and the enormous difference in psychological 
maturity between him and MicOl, as well as a clear warning that the garden will 
soon become the site of his undoing if he does not grow up quickly, become 
aware of the real dangers facing him and other Jews, and decide on a manly 
course of action.° Exile from the garden and the need to leave the mother-child 
dyad of pre-oedipal narcissism are again intertwined in this symbolically charged 
scene. Not coincidentally, in this very same chapter of the novel, as he recounts 
an awkward telephone conversation with Micol’s latently homosexual brother 
Alberto, the narrator recalls gratuitously and mysteriously inventing a visit to a 
local brothel, needing to distance himself suddenly from the danger of any 
identification with Alberto, much as he did vis-a-vis Fadigati in Gli occhiali 
d’oro: “Pensa” soggiunsi a questo punto, inventando di sana pianta, e chissa 
quale demone mi aveva a un tratto suggerito di raccontare una storia del genere, 


> Marilyn Schneider offers a different reading of this dream: “To the extent that Micdl 
and the narrator are equals, Micol functions as her author’s symbol of artistic inspiration; 
thus she remains chaste and mystified. Her banishment of the narrator is required for her 
ideal image to be preserved intact. An erotically permeated dream offers an interesting 
variation on the theme of chastity. [...] In the most surreal part of the dream the [/attimi] 
have changed into bottle-shaped oozing (‘stillanti) small cheeses (the word /attimi evokes 
milk). A smiling MicOl invites her guest to taste one ‘of the best ones,’ but ‘stared at’ by 
Micdl’s dog and ‘anguished’ about a rising tide of water surrounding the house, he 
declines. The explicit symbolization of sexual intercourse has Micdl (the threatening 
‘female’ water) — in apt proximity to her bed — proposing sex (the oozing ‘male’ 
cheese); but the exposed and imperiled narrator, longing for the protection of an 
‘outside,’ a non-Finzi-Continian space, refuses her offer. The dreamworld projection of a 
sexually available Micdl reins in its own desire in order to protect the narrator, whose 
creative ‘oozing’ must depend on his pen and not his penis” (125). 


318 Lucienne Kroha 


“prima di tornare in stazione ho trovato perfino il tempo di dare un’occhiatina in 
via dell’Oca” (341). 

The failure to do the manly thing by kissing Micol at the opportune moment 
is alluded to again in the last two paragraphs of the epilogue. Here the narrator is 
speaking of Giampaolo Malnate, the Gentile Marxist who was one of the regular 
guests at the garden and with whom the protagonist imagines MicOl to be having 
an affair, after she makes clear her lack of interest in him. Malnate is the only 
model of an active, anti-Fascist stance in the novel, and, as such, ultimately 
provides the role model for the protagonist to join the Resistance (though his 
participation in the Resistance is only alluded to once). He and Malnate, in the 
time following Micdl’s invitation to the protagonist to stop coming to the garden, 
meet outside and become friends, in a father-son sort of way. They visit a local 
brothel together (though Malnate abstains) and engage in political conversations 
meant to lead the way to manly militancy for the passive, bookish, sheltered 
protagonist attempting to come to grips with a world gone mad. In the epilogue, 
we are told that Malnate died on the Russian front. The narrator recalls that 
Malnate never quite understood the Finzi-Continis’ passivity in the face of the 
encroaching storm: 


Certo € che quasi presaga della prossima fine, sua e di tutti i suoi, MicOl ripeteva di 
continuo anche a Malnate che a lei del suo futuro democratico e sociale non gliene 
importava un fico, che il futuro, in sé, lei lo abborriva, ad esso preferendo di gran lunga 
“le vierge, le vivace et le bel aujourd'hui,” e il passato, ancora di piu, “il caro, il dolce, il 
pio passato.” 
E siccome queste, lo so, non erano che parole, le solite parole ingannevoli e disperate che 
soltanto un vero bacio avrebbe potuto impedirle di proferire, di esse, appunto e non di 
altre, sia suggellato qui quel poco che il cuore ha saputo ricordare. 

(450) 


Here sameness (the narrator and Micol) is associated with the “pious” 
(Jewish) past, while difference (Malnate as a Socialist and Gentile) is associated 
with the future. And the unproffered kiss (and the spectre of the carriage) returns 
as the only thing that might have projected Micol into the future (and perhaps 
saved her from death at the hands of the Nazis). But in order to bestow the all- 
important kiss, our protagonist would have had to cease seeing her 
narcissistically and been able to embrace their (sexual) difference. Instead, “le 
solite parole ingannevoli,” which the protagonist’s inaction forced Micdl to 
speak, are placed here, at the novel’s end, as a reminder of her success and his 
failure: as a good mother, she sent her son out into the world. He should, instead, 
have been a man to her woman and drawn her out, helped her to face her “exile” 
as well as his own, but was unable to do so. Just as “survivor’s guilt” has 
motivated the telling of the Fadigati story, so too this guilt may well be at the 
origin of the Finzi-Contini saga. 

The third novel of the trilogy, Dietro la porta, moves backward in time 





The Same andor Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 319 


rather than forward, and explores a moment that represents another rite of 
passage in the life of the protagonist: the arrival at the /iceo in early puberty. It is 
1929, there are no race laws on the horizon as yet, but our protagonist is 
exceedingly self-conscious and uncomfortable with what is demanded of him 
now: the capacity to move from the comforting, cocoon-like world of the middle 
school (sameness) to the larger, more impersonal world of the /iceo (difference). 
While his peers seem to be moving seamlessly into their new reality, he is 
unhappy, unable to adapt to the circumstances, keeping to the us/them mentality: 


Avevo bisogno di sfogare la mia scontentezza, di manifestarla. Cosi, il primo giorno di 
scuola mi ero guardato bene dal partecipare al solito assalto per |’accaparramento dei 
banchi privilegiati, quelli cioé pit vicini alla cattedra, a cui, come ogni inizio d’anno, si 
erano buttati i miei compagni. Avevo lasciato fare agli altri, ai nostri e ai /oro, restando 
sulla soglia dell’aula a osservare disgustato la scena, e andando infine a sedermi laggii, 
nell’ultimo banco della fila riservata alle ragazze, presso la finestra d’angolo. Era l’unico 
banco rimasto vuoto: un banco grande, poco adatto alla mia statura mediocre, ma invece 
molto al mio intenso desiderio di esilio. 

(455) 


Here, as opposed to the situation in the first two novels, exile appears to be 
freely chosen, rather than being imposed from the outside. And yet this exile is 
the result of an inability to leave behind “childish things,” to abandon past 
comfortable positions in favor of new stages in life. To be noted in this passage 
are the refusal of “manly” competition, the passivity, and the choice of seating in 
the girls’ row. The reference to exile is repeated a few paragraphs later: “Il 
professor Bianchini, quello d’italiano, aveva cominciato le lezioni declamando 
una canzone di Dante, e un verso mi aveva molto colpito. Diceva: ‘L’essilio che 
m’é dato a onor mi tegno’. Poteva essere la mia divisa, il mio motto” (457). 

As if to seal his fate and in spite of his intellectual abilities, he gravitates for 
friendship not to his peers amongst the Gentile students, the leader of whom is 
aptly named Carlo Cattolica, but to a young, vulgar outsider who is neither his 
intellectual nor social equal, Luciano Pulga, and who appears not to challenge 
him in any way. He and Pulga become uneasy friends and study partners, but in 
reality, Pulga takes advantage of him shamelessly, while the protagonist finds 
himself strangely passive in the face of this exploitation (which here takes the 
form of plagiarism in class): 


Ebbene, che lui copiasse da me con cosi piena fiducia, con cosi assoluta dimissione da 
qualsiasi pretesa di giudizio personale, attento soltanto ad assolvere senza errori il 
proprio lavoro di plagiario, mi riempiva di un sentimento complesso ed invischiante, 
misto di piacere e di ripugnanza, contro il quale gia da allora mi scoprivo indifeso, 
incapace sostanzialmente di reagire. 

(474) 


320 Lucienne Kroha 


They continue to spend time together in spite of the protagonist’s awareness 
of Pulga’s abuse of him, until Cattolica stages a confrontation between them, in 
order to bring the protagonist to a realization of the full extent of Pulga’s 
treachery: from behind the door of the master bedroom in Cattolica’s home, he 
hears sexual insults hurled at his mother by Pulga, while serious doubts are also 
cast on his own heterosexuality as well. The protagonist’s world and all the 
idealizations it is based on come crashing down in a moment: treason and 
contamination have made their way into his universe, and there is safety 
nowhere. Just as Malnate, the most “manly” character in the Giardino dei Finzi- 
Contini warns Micol, Alberto and the protagonist about the dangers of their 
blindness and passivity vis-a-vis events in the outside world, so Cattolica, who 
takes on this role here, is also represented as a “manly” figure, the only one of 
the boys in his class to have a girlfriend: 


In materia di morose io non avevo ancora avuto la minima esperienza seria, concreta. 
[...] Lui al contrario risultava bell’e fidanzato: in casa, e con tanto d’anello d’oro al dito. 
Oh, quell’anello! Si trattava di uno zaffiro montato in oro bianco, un anello importante, 
da commendatore, particolarmente antipatico. Eppure come avrei desiderato possederne 
uno anch’io! Chissa — mi dicevo —. Forse per diventare uomini, 0 almeno per 
acquistare quel minimo di sicurezza in se stessi indispensabile a passare per tali, un 
anello cosi andava bene, poteva aiutare molto. 

(464) 


The title of the novel Dietro la porta is a clear allusion to another Freudian 
concept, the primal scene, which refers to the child’s fantasies about what goes 
on behind his parents’ closed door.° What is important for the purposes of our 
analysis of the exile motif in Bassani is that this is the scene that forces the child 
to become aware of his exclusion vis-a-vis the parents and, in particular, the 
mother. This scene oedipalizes the child, so to speak, casting him out of the 
narcissistic paradise of the mother/child dyad and forcing him not only to 
become aware of his exile, but also of his mother’s existence as a sexual being. 
In the first novel Gli occhiali d’oro, he takes cognizance of his exclusion from 
“Ferrara” as he once knew it, from its “maternal face”; in the second novel, he 
seeks refuge in the garden and in Micol’s “maternal” face, but discovers that this 
face is his own projection, that she is a sexual being and that the garden is a false 
paradise (the “primal scene” in the Giardino takes place when the protagonist 
sees the light on in the hut and imagines it to have been the site of Micdl’s secret 
midnight trysts with Malnate); in this third novel, he returns to the site of the 
original exclusion, “behind the door.” Bassani here has the awakening to the 
mother’s sexuality taking place in brutal circumstances and following a 
confusing adolescent episode of penis size comparison with Pulga, in which 


° See “Primal Scene” in Laplanche and Pontalis 335-36. 





The Same and/or Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 321 


Pulga tells him he is a homosexual. In his transition to adolescent manhood, the 
protagonist’s uneasy Jewishness is intertwined with both his own and his 
mother’s sexual humiliation (the latter not in fact but in word). 

The insistence on Judaism and sexuality has to do with more than just 
Bassani’s desire to give a universal dimension to the Jewish experience of exile 
by reducing it to a variation of two timeless exile stories which are also tales of 
sexual difference : the story of the Fall and the Freudian variation of the Oedipus 
story. In reality, there is something very historically specific about the 
juxtaposition of the motifs of the acceptance of sexual and ethnic difference at 
this time. The “femininity” inherent in the protagonist — his attachment to the 
feminine “carrozza” in the garden, his decision to sit in the back row with the 
girls, his passive submission to the taunts and abuse of Pulga in Dietro /a porta, 
his reluctance to reach out to the homosexual Fadigati: all are elements that place 
Bassani’s treatment of the exile motif within a very specific and broad discourse 
of Jewish identity that transcends the bounds of the Italian context in which he 
situates his stories. It is no secret that doubts about the masculinity of Jews were 
rampant in post-Darwinian pseudo-scientific discourse in the late-nineteenth and 
early-twentieth centuries, and these doubts were a distinct part of the discourse 
that led up to the Nazi genocide of the Jews as an inferior race. It was in fact, as 
Ritchie Robertson writes, 


a nineteenth-century commonplace that ‘the Jew’ (always imagined as male) was in some 
way less masculine than the Gentile male. The equation of Jewishness and femininity 
appears in Nietzsche’s work as early as section 9 of the Birth of Tragedy (1872), where 
the active, Aryan, masculine myth of Prometheus and his crime of stealing fire from 
heaven is contrasted with the passive, Semitic, feminine myth of Eve and the sin of the 
Fall. In 1869 the distinguished Viennese rabbi Adolf Jellinek published a book, Der 
judische Stamm (The Jewish Tribe), with a chapter headed ‘The Femininity of the Jewish 
Tribe’ [in which] the relationship of Jews to non-Jews is made analogous to the passive, 
submissive relationship of women to men. [...] 
A feminized Jewish man features in the play Karla Buhring (1895) by ‘Laura Marholm’ 
(the pseudonym of Laura Hansson, 1854-1905), where the violinist Karla Buhring is 
attracted to the Jewish intellectual Dr. Siegfried Collander. [...] His enemy Eschenmeyer 
describes him [as] ‘a kind of half-way house and intermediate formation, to put it in 
scientific terms, between us and the female, and that is why women like him as a daily 
stimulant.’ This Darwinian language proposes the feminized Jew as a kind of missing 
link between the Aryan man and the woman. 

(296-97) 


Of course the most notorious of German writers to enshrine the Jewish male 
as “feminine” was Otto Weininger, himself a Jew and a homosexual, whose Sex 
and Character (Geschlect und Charakter, 1903) enjoyed a popularity amongst 
European intellectuals well into the nineteen thirties, and no less so amongst 


322 Lucienne Kroha 


Italian intellectuals, in particular those of the prestigious journal La voce.’ It is 
certainly no coincidence that this infamous text is mentioned in Dietro la porta 
as one of the books which Pulga has managed to sneak away from his father’s 
library (491). 

Indeed, the story of the narrator’s gradual coming to terms with his 
condition as a Jew in the terrible period of Fascist anti-Semitism becomes the 
story of his identification with a “Gentile” cause — the “manly” Resistance — 
which draws him out of the “feminine” maternal cocoon. In all three novels, the 
acceptance of exile becomes the equivalent of male maturity, which the 
protagonist has difficulty reaching because of a deep-seated insecurity, identified 
as a historically determined Jewish lack of “manliness,” represented not only in 
his own drama and seen as responsible for the deaths of Fadigati and of Micdl, 
but in all the Jewish male figures in the novels. His own father is seen as weak 
(“quell’uomo mediocre, annoiato e noioso, incapace soprattutto in casa di tenersi 
su, di darsi un contegno” 528), Micol’s father is remembered for his limp 
handshake (“sentii la sua mano piccola e inerte infilarsi nella mia e subito 
ritirarsi” 116), while her brother is a homosexual.® The earlier exile of the Jews 
into the ghetto appears to have created an exile from manliness, represented here 
as a Gentile trait. 

In this connection it is perhaps worth noting that in his /nterpretation of 
Dreams (1900), Freud himself addresses this issue indirectly in speaking of his 
well-known attachment to Rome and of a series of dreams “based upon a longing 
to visit Rome,” (282) and of his idealization of Hannibal, whom he speaks of as 
“the favorite hero of my later school-days”(285): 


Like so many boys of that age, I had sympathized in the Punic Wars not with the 
Romans but with the Carthaginians. And when in the higher classes I began to 
understand for the first time what it meant to belong to an alien race, and anti-semitic 
feelings among the other boys warned me that I must take up a definite position, the 
figure of the semitic general rose still higher in my esteem. To my youthful mind 
Hannibal and Rome symbolized the conflict between the tenacity of Jewry and the 
organization of the Catholic church. And the increasing importance of the effects of the 
anti-semitic movement upon our emotional life helped to fix the thoughts and feelings of 
those early days. [...] 

At that point I was brought up against the event in my youth whose power was still 
being shown in all these emotions and dreams. I may have been ten or twelve years old, 


7 For an account of its fortunes amongst Italian intellectuals see Cavaglion. For an 
account of the ideas expressed in it see Ritchie 299-302. 

* Schneider sees homosexuality in Bassani’s works as “a metaphor of social infertility 
and decay” (89) in her chapter entitled “Sexual Identity and Political Persecution.” I 
would go farther and see it not, in the first instance, as a metaphor but, as I have taken 
pains to demonstrate, as a literal representation of fears about Jewish masculinity, derived 
and internalized from anti-Semitic discourse. 





The Same and/or Different: Narcissism and Exile in Bassani’s Novels 323 


when my father began to take me with him on his walks and reveal to me in his talk his 
views upon things in the world we live in. Thus it was, on one such occasion, that he told 
me a story to show me how much better things were now than they had been in his days. 
‘When I was a young man,’ he said, ‘I went for a walk one Saturday in the streets of your 
birthplace; I was well dressed and had a new fur cap on my head. A Christian came up to 
me and with a single blow knocked off my cap into the mud and shouted : “Jew! Get off 
the pavement!” ’ ‘And what did you do?’ I asked. ‘I went into the roadway and picked up 
my cap,’ was his quiet reply. This struck me as unheroic conduct on the part of the big, 
strong man who was holding the little boy by the hand. I contrasted this situation with 
another which fitted my feelings better: the scene in which Hannibal’s father, Hamilcar 
Barca, made his boy swear before the household altar to take vengeance on the Romans. 
Ever since that time Hannibal had had a place in my phantasies. 

(286; qtd. Breitman 104-05) 


In concluding, I cite another passage from Dietro /a porta that describes the 
protagonist’s unease at having to leave middle school for the /iceo. With little 
effort it is possible to read this excerpt as the thinly veiled protest of a 
particularly insecure Jew reluctant to leave the ghetto: 


Fin dai primi giorni mi ero sentito spaesato, profondamente a disagio. Non mi 
piaceva |’aula dove ci avevano messi, posta al termine di un tetro corridoio lontano da 
quello allegro e familiare [...]. Non mi piacevano i nuovi insegnanti, dai modi distaccati 
e ironici che scoraggiavano ogni confidenza, ogni considerazione di carattere personale. 
[...] Non mi piacevano i nuovi compagni provenienti dalla quinta A ai quali noi della B 
eravamo stati aggiunti, diversissimi da noi, mi pareva, forse pil bravi, pit belli, 
appartenenti a famiglie forse migliori delle nostre: estranei, insomma, irrimediabilmente. 
E non riuscivo né a comprendere né a giustificare a questo proposito il comportamento di 
molti dei “nostri,” che, a differenza di me, avevano subito cercato di fare comunella con 
“loro,” ripagati, lo vedevo costernato, di uguale simpatia, di pari disinvolta 
arrendevolezza [...]. La mia fedelta, [...] la mia assurda fedelta avrebbe preteso che una 
linea di demarcazione invisibile continuasse a separare anche al liceo i superstiti delle 
due vecchie quinte, di modo che noi della B fossimo protetti e garantiti per sempre da 
ogni tradimento, da ogni contaminazione. 

(453-54) 


The analogy between the “ghetto mentality” and pre-oedipal narcissism, on 
the one hand, and emancipation and oedipal difference seems clear: while the 
ghetto Jew was originally confined to this enclave because of his difference, in 
the ghetto he invariably becomes the “same.” Outside of the ghetto, “sameness” 
is an illusion (the mirage of integration); “exile” must be accepted as a 
permanent condition. Moreover, the pairing of the refusal to move into a 
situation that entails the recognition of this permanent “exile” of the emancipated 
Jew with the refusal of the “manly” recognition of sexual difference situates 
Bassani’s treatment of the exile motif within the gendered discourse of Jewish 
identity in vogue in the late-nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries. 


324 Lucienne Kroha 


McGill University 
Works Cited 


Bassani, Giorgio. // romanzo di Ferrara. Milano: Mondadori, 1980. 

Breitman, Barbara. “Lifting up the Shadow of Anti-Semitism: Jewish Masculinity in a 
New Light.” A Mensch among Men. Explorations in Jewish Masculinity. Ed. Harry 
Brod. Freedom, CA: The Crossing Press, 1988. 101-17. 

Cavaglion, Alberto Cavaglion. Otto Weininger in Italia . Roma: Carucci, 1983. 

De Felice, Renzo. Storia degli ebrei italiani sotto il fascismo. 1961. Torino: Einaudi, 
1972. 

Freud, Sigmund. The Interpretation of Dreams. Trans. James Strachey. Harmondsworth: 
Penguin, 1976. 

Kroha, Lucienne. “The Structures of Silence: Re-reading Giorgio Bassani’s Gli occhiali 
d’oro.” The Italianist 10 (1990): 71-102. 

Laplanche, Jean, and Jean-Baptiste Pontalis. The Language of Psychoanalysis. Trans. 
Donald Nicholson-Smith. New York: W. W. Norton and Company, 1973. 

Robertson, Ritchie. The “Jewish Question” in German Literature 1749-1939. Oxford: 
Oxford UP, 1999. 

Schneider, Marilyn. Vengeance of the Victim. History and Symbol in Giorgio Bassani’s 
Fiction. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1986. 

Weininger, Otto. Sex and Character. New York: Burt, 1906. 

Wright, Elizabeth, ed. Feminism and Psychoanalysis. A Critical Dictionary. Oxford: 
Blackwell, 1992. 


Cinzia Sartini Blum 


Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 


In Mitografia dell’esule, Giuseppe De Marco calls attention to the central role 
that the theme of exile, in its various inflections, plays in Italian literature from 
the Middle Ages to the present.! While De Marco’s approach is not strictly 
chronological, he points to a development whereby the traditional representation 
of exile as an individual, heroic iter gives way to the contemporary image of a 
common drifting into anonymous alienation: 


“Questa, purtroppo, é la chiara diagnosi della crisi che vive l’uomo ad ogni angolo di 
strada, quest’uomo che cammina in mezzo alla folla, anonimo fra gli anonimi, esule fra 
gli esuli, proteso nella esplorazione di questa condizione di incertezza, di angosciata 
perplessita, di disperazione esistenziale, naufragando nell’ ‘aiuola che ci fa tanto feroci’ 
(Pa XXL AST)” 

(97-98) 


Such a depressingly monochromatic depiction of the present is indicative of a 
predominant mind-set in the Italian critical establishment. Only an unhealable 
sense of loss seems to lie in the wake of the modern crisis of values, which 
marks “the end of History” for the “decentered” subject of contemporary theory 
— a subject paralyzed by nostalgia because unable to relinquish the impossible 
dream of totalizing pursuits. But what about those who were traditionally 
marginalized by the lamented (or desecrated) certezze of the past, that is, by 
systems of values predicated on Eurocentric and phallogocentric ideologies? 
From the viewpoint of History’s outcasts — namely women, who are not present 
in De Marco’s survey — the crisis of the West’s “universals” may have 
contributed to create a propitious climate for intellectual journeys into uncharted 
territories. As many women writers have argued and shown, these various 
journeys seek to connect a vital heritage with the precarious present, and with 
the future still to be written. I will focus on one such challenging percorso: the 
unique experience of Toni (Antonella) Maraini, a poet, novelist, art historian, 


1 “T *esilio, cosi, si profila nella molteplicita dei significati e delle espressioni: esilio 
come sanzione dell’allontanamento dalla propria patria, quindi come bando (Dante), 
oppure come condizione di relegazione e domilicio coatto (C. Levi, C. Pavese), ovvero 
come fuga, vita solitaria (Petrarca, Tasso, Leopardi); l’esilio ancora é vissuto come 
categoria di negazione-assenza; infine |’esilio nella letteratura contemporanea si rivela 
come condizione esistenziale di solitudine, nostalgia, angoscia” (De Marco 11). 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


326 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


and scholar of Maghreb, whose work speaks of exile as a precondition for 
nomadic adventures of thought. The challenge Maraini takes on is to cross old 
intellectual boundaries as well as newly established ones, questioning given 
notions of cultural identity while also searching for enduring values. In this 
journey, she revives the trope of exile as “I’ultima utopia.”2 


Sealed in Stone 

Maraini’s first novel, Anno 1424 (1976), was inspired by a famous place of 
French medieval history, the Cemetery and Church of the Holy Innocents. As the 
author explains in her preface to the English edition, this was “the cemetery for 
the Parisian people” and also their most popular gathering place: by daytime, the 
center of various social activities; and at night, the sanctuary for all sorts of 
outcasts (Sealed in Stone 9-10; emph. in original text). The church’s outer walls 
served also as a place of exile for the “immured,” who by sentence or choice 
were sealed up in small stone cells facing the yard. Consulting documents on the 
cemetery’s history, Maraini found mention of a young woman called Alix la 
Bourgotte: “A young novitiate of the Hopital de Saint-Catherine, [who] 
renounced the world in 1418, and chose to spend the rest of her life walled up in 
the Cemetery of the Holy Innocents, communicating with the outside world only 
through an opening the size of a large brick. She died forty-eight years later, 
venerated by then as a mystic” (Sealed in Stone 10). 

In Anno 1424, this historical figure becomes the heroine of a symbolic tale 
set against the backdrop of the English invasion, at the time of the famous 
staging of La Danse Macabre or Triomphe de la Mort, which was performed in 
the churchyard by the cemetery. Viewing this fascinating place as a metaphor of 
the world — “[u]n mondo decadente, pessimista, irrazionale, corrotto, puerile 
davanti alla vita, pomposo e formalista, ma nello stesso tempo un mondo 
innovatore e in fermento” (87)? — Maraini makes it the stage for an exemplary 


2 | share Mario Luzi’s concern that the pervasive “circulation” of exile in contemporary 
literature may have reduced the trope to a cliché: “La dissidenza 0 lo spaesamento 
dell’esilio circolano [...] nel regime poetico moderno ora in modo evidente ora a un 
livello cosi profondo che solo per via di metafore possiamo decifrarli. Tutto questo ha 
generato molte specie di arbitri e storture. Oggi noi forse abusiamo per consuetudine e 
vizio mentali, nel frequentarla e nel decifrarla o nel comodamente presumerla quella 
metafora, quasi topos senza pil relazione con la sostanza” (200-01). It will become 
apparent that the relationship between trope and historical substance is not lost on 
Maraini. See Edward W. Said for insightful reflections on this relationship. Said focuses 
on “true exile” as a “condition of terminal loss” (173), an “unbearably historical” reality 
(174), warning that any “instrumental” use of it may amount to “a trivialization” (182). 
Yet, he also recognizes that exile is “a potent, even enriching motif of modern culture” 
(173), and that even “non-exiles can share in the benefits of exile as a redemptive motif” 
(183). 

3 Unless otherwise indicated, page numbers refer to the novel’s 1991 edition, La murata. 





Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 327 


story of rebellion to the daily spectacle of violence, injustice, and suffering. 
Her heroine, Alice, is not in fact what we might expect: a mystic who chooses 
reclusion in order to transcend the corruption of the Earthly City through 
contemplative ecstasy. Alice’s adolescent aspirations are driven by intellectual 
curiosity and by an overwhelming need for spiritual freedom. Through her 
books, as if traveling in distant lands, she restlessly seeks the “Thing” that may 
allow her to break free from the opaque, meaningless constraints of daily 
existence. After her father’s death, however, having lost her privileged 
condition, she becomes painfully aware of a murkier, violent reality, which 
makes all scholarly endeavors seem futile.4 She is then forced to enroll as a 
novice, under the name of Agnese, by a new stepfather who considers her “too 
strange and disrespectful” (Sealed in Stone 53). But the formalistic and ascetic 
practices of the religious order do not satisfy the novice’s thirst for answers. Her 
first epiphany is not, in fact, a mystic experience sparked by ritual prayer or 
solitary contemplation; it is a moment of intense connection with life, 
established upon witnessing an innocent man’s execution. The recluse recounts 
this life-changing moment in one of her internal monologues: 


Quando mi vide, mi guardd. Segui il percorso che va in fondo, attraverso questi buchi 
neri che abbiamo nelle orbite, e git sino alle vertebre. Mi ha comunicato in una zona 
senza tempo dove esistiamo, attraverso gli strani canali del nostro corpo ma che nel corpo 
lasciano solo un ricordo, un riflesso lontano. Dietro di lui c’era la Cosa. Ed é allora che 
ho capito che la Cosa si trovava in uno spazio completamente diverso dal nostro [...]. 
Quello che noi pensiamo come fuori era di colpo diventato un “dentro” minuscolo e 
relativo. Il vero oltre, il vero lontano, era immenso, vasto, spazioso, assolutamente 
differente nelle sue dimensioni eppure vicinissimo a me: mi veniva trasmesso da dentro 
un corpo, dalle pupille di quel viso. Qualcosa che in un attimo mi sembro di intuire cosi 
chiaramente, doveva misteriosamente connettere lo spazio illimitato a un soffio 
impalpabile interiore al nostro corpo. 
Per molto tempo dopo, gia nella cella, avevo continuato a pensare che quell’uomo avesse 
deposto in me la sua vita, che l’avesse fatta fuggire di corsa attraverso il mio corpo. 
Come quando si lancia una barca in un fiume che conduce in un posto inaspettato. 
(109-10; emph. in original text) 


As she meets the victim’s gaze, Alice/Agnese experiences a transfusion of 
life, which opens up new channels for ecstatic communication. An obvious 
antecedent to this scene is the most famous letter of St. Catherine of Siena, 


4 “Adesso che comincio appena a capire i fatti cosi chiaramente esposti all’interno della 
citta stessa, adesso che comincio a capire cosa conta veramente nella logica, nelle arti e 
negli intestini di un corpo umano, adesso — pensavo — nessuno mi ascoltera pit. Ormai 
chi ero io? pid niente, nessuno. Uscita dal circuito delle carte sigillate. Per fortuna, 
pensai subito dopo, per fortuna sono uscita da questa grande illusione, l’illusione di 
andare discutendo con pertinenza su cose assolutamente inutili” (46). 


328 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


which vividly relates how the saint is enraptured upon assisting a young 
gentleman from Perugia, Niccold Toldo, condemned to death for speaking 
critically of the Sienese government.> There are, however, significant differences 
between the two texts. Maraini’s heroine is deeply affected by the man’s 
dignified, defiant attitude, whereas Catherine inspires the terrified youth to 
accept the will of God and even share her own exaltation at the moment of death. 
Furthermore, in Catherine’s ecstatic vision the soul leaves the dead man’s body 
and is transported to the divine by the Savior’s otherworldly Grace. For 
Alice/Agnese, ecstasy is instead a moment of immanent transcendence: an 
exteriorization of the self through shared sentiment with the other, resulting in 
her assumption of the victim’s call for a better world: “insurrezione quotidiana 
ed espansione dell’anima” (120).© Because she feels incapable of transforming 
the world that surrounds her ("Non potevo infrangere la vita dal di fuori” 112), 
the heroine chooses reclusion as a way of changing things from within — a way 
of aspiring to that “ideal city” which is justice on earth. People, she decides, can 
fight with the little means they have, as the innocent man did, with his 
countenance before an unjust sentence: 


Se la citta ideale é |’idea che l’uomo si fa della vita, se ¢ veramente |’aspirazione di tutta 
la gente che chiede giustizia, se é la meta dell’espansione della loro coscienza, se é di 
questa citta che parlano i riformatori, i predicatori, i rivoltosi e tutte le persone che nella 
loro vita quotidiana percorrono le strade guradando al di 1a, oltre, lontano, al modello 
esemplare che ancora ci sfugge, ebbene, allora bisogna cercare di rendere questa citta 
possibile. 
Come? Io non lo so. Non sono un condottiero, un rivoltoso con le armi. Sono qualcuno 
che nella vita non ha potere sulle cose, che non ha presa sulla materia. Ho voluto fare del 
mio corpo un ponte. Non ho ripudiato la realta, ma l'ho in un certo senso inghiottita; 
lanciata in una via a strapiombo perché in questa terra esista un corpo, uno dei tanti, 
perpendicolari al cielo. 

(119; emph. added) 


> See letter CCLXXII, “A Frate Raimondo da Capua dell’Ordine de’ Predicatori” 
(Misciattelli 173-78). 

© On this narrowest meaning of ecstasy as “ex-stasis,” or the exteriorization of the self, 
see Maffesoli 43. Maffesoli discusses the role of the ecstatic experience of shared 
sentiment in every-day life, arguing that it is the driving force in basic mechanisms of 
identification and participation upon which the social bond is built. According to 
Maffesoli, such archaic, tribal mechanisms characterize the climate of eras, like ours, in 
which people feel alienated from the distant economic-political order: “[...] at certain 
periods of history, when the masses are no longer interacting with those in government 
[...] the political universe dies and sociality takes over. [...] I believe that this movement 
is a swing of the pendulum, proceeding by saturation; on the one hand, direct or indirect 
participation predominates; on the other hand, there is an increased emphasis on 
everyday values” (46). 





| 


Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 329 


Passages such as this lead us to venture an interpretation of the novel’s 
central image: the protagonist’s exile in a cell attached to a wall that encloses “a 
metaphor of the world itself’ (Sealed in Stone 10). This image can be related to 
a most influential trope of twentieth-century Italian poetry: the wall that defines 
the horizon of Eugenio Montale’s poetic world. For Montale, this trope figures 
existence as exile from meaning: the poet searches for the breach in the wall that 
may afford him a glimpse of the absolute, but fears an engulfing void, which 
awaits him beyond the sheltering screen of his limited perception. Similarly, 
young Alice feels trapped by the opaque screen of a senseless “spettacolo 
ingannatore” (36), and envisages a total, annihilating “absence”: 


Ero gia murata allora, quando correvo 1a dove si bruciano i covoni del grano e vedevo 
d’un tratto davanti a me delle montagne di polvere fina fina e trasparente. Ogni cosa era 
quella e l’embiema di un’altra. Come se stessi vivendo nella fessura di un’immagine; nel 
riflesso di un doppione. Allora mi fermavo e tutto diveniva translucido. Quel momento 
era cristallizzato eppure liquido. Era sonoro; sentivo il sibilo violento della forza magica 
che tiene tutto compatto. Presente, intenso e pronto. Il sole, i campi attorno, ogni 
dettaglio e sasso, uscivano da me eppure loro stessi mi contenevano in uno spazio tondo 
come un alambicco di cristallo. In qull’istante coincidevano tutti i nostri battiti 
accumulati: del mio corpo, delle foglie, delle pietre, delle nuvole. Il resto era la morte, la 
morte pid terribile e totale: |’assenza di me e |’imputridimento. 
Restavo cosi sinché qualcuno mi chiamasse; allora una rete invisibile mi ripiombava 
addosso e mi rendeva pit prigioniera e assente che la terra e le mura che mi rinchiudono 
qui, adesso, in questo spazio afoso. 

(33) 


This passage recalls, in particular, the “miracle” that Montale foresees in 
“Forse un mattino andando in un’aria di vetro.””? But in Montale’s poem the 
poetic “I” anticipates a moment of stupefied terror: he expects to find sheer 
nothingness behind the simulacrum of things, and will therefore return to face 
“|’inganno consueto” in isolation, harboring a terrible secret. Maraini’s heroine, 
instead, experiences a moment of intense correspondence with nature. And later, 
by identifying with a victim of injustice, she will have a positive epiphany. 
Moving then into a liminal space in the wall, she will see through society’s 
deceptive constraints without fear of losing herself, and will thus solidify her 
connection with life. 

The “immured” also connects with history by becoming a bridge through 
which others can pursue their own ways to consciousness. Her path converges 


7 “Forse un mattino andando in un’aria di vetro, / arida, rivolgendomi, vedro compirsi il 
miracolo: / il nulla alle mie spalle, il vuoto dietro / di me, con un terrore di ubriaco. // Poi 
come s’uno schermo, s’accamperanno di gitto / alberi case colli per l’inganno consueto. / 
Ma sara troppo tardi; ed io me n’andro zitto / tra gli uomini che non si voltano, col mio 
segreto” (Montale 40). 


330 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


with those of three other characters, who share a condition of exile or 
estrangement, and are driven by a common unrest: “il Gran Turco,” a beggar 
poet and “vaga/mondo,” who must contain his wandering within the cemetery — 
the asylum for all refugees; “il Boemo,” a Bohemian heretic, who has been 
banished and condemned to be a perpetual pilgrim for his political radicalism; 
and “il Lombardo,” a young Valdese, who seeks new outlets for the rebellious 
spirit he has inherited from his ancestors. The recluse feels an affinity with the 
beggar poet and addresses him in her mental monologues. The poet, in turn, 
talks to her as to a guiding presence: “Una cosa che metti nella tua testa e la 
porti via, le parli e viene ogni tanto in sogno per liberarti da un incubo” (64). 
And the wandering Lombard receives direction from the Bohemian intellectual, 
who incites him to fight for social justice. From the recluse, to whom he appeals 
for a sign, he receives the final answer that gives him the necessary source of 
inner strength: a call to be part of “il divenire della coscienza” (164). We can 
find a gloss to this message earlier in the text, when the authorial voice interjects 
in the Lombard’s internal monologue, as if responding to his doubts about the 
reason for Alice’s choice: 


Una spiegazione infatti, non c’é, se non quella di una confrontazione storica fra una 
realta e un individuo, Alice/Agnese in questo caso, una giovane donna altrettanto tenace 
e vulnerabile quanto il Lombardo. E in quell’epoca di contraddizioni, persino un uomo 
cosi insolito come il Boemo, un individuo inaspettato in quella citta — un comunista 
hussita membro di un popolo in rivolta e portavoce del pietismo laico dei Fratelli della 
Legge di Cristo — é ugualmente uno che cerca delle risposte assolute. — Altrimenti — 
diceva — saremmo materia e non discernimento. — Questi individui cosi diversi per 
educazione e origine, coscienti e visionari, abitati da strani monologhi, da contrasti e 
tensioni inconciliabili, non é un caso che convergano verso le stesse idee e le stesse 
aspirazioni, tanto grande é il bisogno di qualcosa di nuovo. 

(142-43; emph. in original text) 


If we focus, from a feminist perspective, on the “becoming of the 
consciousness” of woman as a historical subject, the protagonist’s exile bears 
witness to a historical predicament. To an independent fifteenth-century woman, 
reclusion could appear as the only way to escape the social constraints stifling 
her existence. As we have seen, however, the heroine’s choice is also symbolic 
of a universal predicament, and is intended to inspire all those who still search 
for answers to unsettling questions. 

Maria Corti’s introduction underscores the originality of this “[s]trano e 
mirabile libro” by arguing that it offers a brave message at a time when narrative 
is characterized by a new kind of conformism: “{...] lo sperimentalismo in 
narrativa comincia a farsi maniera di se stesso e un nuovo conformismo porta a 
celebrare con qualche monotonia e compiacimento la crisi o la negazione dei 
valori” (Anno 1424 3-4). Going against the current, Maraini writes a book about 
the real world hidden behind the false one, a world which is not “un accumulo di 











Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 331 


eventi o di segni linguistici, ma un concorrere di atti di coscienza” (Anno 
1424 4). “Strange,” according to Corti, is the sensation that we, the readers, 
experience in discovering that the novels’ characters, who wander “nella 
geografia del nostro io,” gravitate around a common principle — the awakening 
of consciousness, the “Thing” buried deeply within the self, without which 
reality remains “un insieme di immagini illusorie” (Anno 1424 3). Presumably, 
such a sensation is called “strange” because readers do not expect — from a 
contemporary author — a strong, positive message: a call to find a point of inner 
strength through introspection and a critical, yet constructive involvement in 
history. 

A different introduction, penned by Alberto Moravia, appears in the novel’s 
1991 edition entitled La murata, and in the 2002 English translation, Sealed in 
Stone.8 Moravia also calls the book “strano e necessario” because of its 
affirmative message; but unlike Corti, he further distances himself from it. The 
opening lines of Moravia’s piece offer an apocalyptic perspective that causes 
any positive approach to appear illusory and vain: 


Viviamo in un’epoca indecifrabile, ostinatamente e perversamente insignificante. Contro 
l’epoca cozza invano la tendenza costituzionale dell’umanita a cercare, al di 1a del reale 
apparente e provvisorio, una realta invisibile e definitiva. Di fronte a questa eversivita 
enigmatica, almeno nel campo della letteratura, si possono notare due atteggiamenti 
fondamentali: quello di chi accetta l’insignificanza del mondo e si studia di riprodurla nel 
gioco rigorosamente convenzionale della scrittura, e quello di chi, invece, cerca — 
appunto — il significato al quale sembra riferire l’insopportabile e assurdo significante. 
Ma il guaio é che l’epoca non é soltanto insignificante ma, anche, oggettivamente 
catastrofica e dunque, in modo tutto nuovo (I’Ecclesiaste dice: niente di nuovo sotto il 
sole, ma |’Ecclesiaste era un contadino dell’eta del bronzo e si sbagliava) praticamente 
invivibile. 

(5; emph. in original text) 


Since Maraini interrogates the past in search of analogies, “per dare un senso al 


8 A note to the introduction in La murata indicates that Moravia wrote it in 1976 “per 
l’edizione americana” (8). A slightly abridged translation of Moravia’s piece appears in 
Sealed in Stone. In a recent e-mail communication to me, Maraini has explained the 
history of this preface as follows: “[...] la prefazione di Moravia era stata scritta prima 
ancora che Anno 1424 fosse pubblicato; lui aveva letto le bozze e si era entusiasmato. 
Ma io non I’avevo usata e avevo scelto quella di Maria Corti perché volevo evitare un 
nome troppo famoso e troppo vicino alla mia famiglia. Poi fu ventilata la proposta, nel 
1976 stesso, di un editore americano e pensai di lasciare per quella edizione la prefazione 
di Moravia. Ma ero tornata in Marocco e non mi occupavo delle mie cose, cosi non se ne 
fece pili nulla. L’edizione americana attuale é cosa del tutto nuova, il contatto é stato 
trovato grazie alla tenacia di Arthur Bierman che anni fa aveva tradotto il libro e se ne € 
occupato con passione. E stato lui a suggerire di riprendere il testo di Moravia, visto che 
era rimasto inedito in inglese.” 


332 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


nostro futuro” (6), she is to be placed among those who have not given up 
looking for meaning. Moravia’s observations on the unprecedented 
senselessness of our time are, therefore, at odds with the author’s view of 
history, which is announced in an epigraph: “Nel presente che ci circonda non vi 
é meno di fittizio che nel passato il cui riflesso chiamiamo storia. Soltanto se noi 
interpretiamo una forma del fittizio con l’altra, nasce qualcosa di non vano” (9).? 
Despite such a difference in perspective, Moravia is clearly drawn to the novel, 
which he praises for a writing that infuses history with poetry ("una scrittura 
ferma e oggettiva sotto la quale, perd, scorre, ininterrotta, una tensione lirica,” 
7). The final lines of his introduction, highlighting the book’s affirmative 
message, might even be read as an endorsement: “Quello che questo libro 
afferma é che i nostri dubbi e le nostre paure possono trovare una risposta nella 
scoperta individuale della consapevolezza e della coscienza” (8). In the 
translation, however, these lines are omitted. As a result, the contrast between 
the introduction and the novel appears to be accentuated. 

While Moravia’s words resonate with the postmodern notion of the end of 
history, Maraini’s approach calls to mind reflections on history by various 
feminist writers, who question the politically indifferent attitude of much 
postmodern culture. I refer, for instance, to the proceedings of a series of 
seminars on the theme “Il viaggio/le donne tra nostalgia e trasformazione,” 
where woman’s movement in time is recurrently described through figures of 
wandering and spiraling progress.!9 One can also draw connections with the 
Italian historicist tradition, from Vico — whose definition of the intrinsic 
relationship between the history of civilization and the modifications of the 
individual mind is quoted at the beginning of the novel — to the contemporary 
debate on hermeneutics and pensiero debole.'!! But as we proceed to examine 
Maraini’s later writings, which portray her authorial persona as an exile and 
wanderer, it becomes apparent that her work cannot be squarely set against the 
background of any single movement, theory, or tradition. 


Wandering in a Land of Exile 

Like exile, wandering is a ubiquitous trope in contemporary literature. As a 
recurrent figure for women’s intellectual projects, it conveys the shared desire to 
depart from hegemonic schemes of thought. Rejecting exclusionary views of 


® This quote is from an unidentified text by the Austrian playwright, poet, and essayist, 
Hugo Von Hofmannsthal (1874-1929). 

'0 See, in particular, Fraire’s essay, which defines woman’s journey as “viandanza” and 
describes it as a spiraling movement, a continuous return to a new point of departure. 

'l See Borradori’s introduction to Recoding Metaphysics for relevant comments on the 
“phenomenological structure” of pensiero debole, which “precludes the analysis of the 
unconscious [...] but not the analysis of the anamnesis of the historic and formal 
accretions of its appearing” (13). 


Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 333 


subjectivity, nomadic discourses commonly emphasize process, dynamic 
interaction, and fluid boundaries. There can be, however, significant variation 
among the intellectual trajectories figured by this trope. A good parameter for 
measuring divergence is the horizon of referents within which wandering takes 
place. I will briefly outline one prominent itinerary as a way of introducing 
Maraini’s view of her own estraneita from Western approaches to cultural 
identity, including those currently explored by feminist thought. 

Rosi Braidotti’s Nomadic Subjects is a major contribution to the Western 
feminist debate and an unavoidable point of reference for any critical discourse 
on nomadic writing. In exploring nomadism as a figure for contemporary 
subjectivity, the cosmopolitan Braidotti establishes direct connections with 
various feminist theories of gender and with French poststructuralist thought. !2 
In particular, she refers to Gilles Deleuze’s emphasis on the positive role of the 
unconscious, connecting her trope of the nomadic subject to the metaphor of the 
rhizome, which for Deleuze represents “the labyrinthine dispersion of the 
desiring subject.”!3 Such an approach must negotiate a theoretical crux: namely, 
how to reconcile the political necessity to posit female subjectivity with the 
postmodern deconstruction of the subject. Like other feminists who engage in a 
dialogue with French poststructuralism, Braidotti negotiates the crux by 
theorizing “a subject in transit and yet sufficiently anchored to a historical 
position to accept responsibility” (10).!4 Invoking the Kristevan notion of a two- 
tiered level of becoming, Braidotti represents history as a discontinuous line, 
which twists and turns through different levels of experience, crossing the 
boundaries between body and mind, unconscious structures of desire and 
conscious political choices. She thus posits a fluid foundation for feminist 
consciousness and political agency. Maraini similarly adopts an associative logic 
to bridge traditional dichotomies, but situates her wandering in a political and 
cultural context other than those commonly addressed by feminist thought. As 
we shall see, in distancing herself from the Western intellectual milieu, she aims 
to re-establish severed connections not only between different levels of 
experience, but also, and most importantly, between different cultural traditions. 


12 Born in Italy and raised in Australia, Braidotti was educated in Paris, and is Professor 
of Women’s Studies at the University of Utrecht, the Netherlands. 

13 The phrase is Borradori’s (13). Braidotti characterizes Deleuze’s key metaphor as 
follows: “The rhizome is a root that grows underground, sideways; Deleuze plays it 
against the linear roots of trees. By extension, it is “as if the rhizomatic mode expressed 
a nonphallogocentric mode of thinking: secret, lateral, spreading, as opposed to the 
visible, vertical ramifications of Western trees of knowledge” (22-23). 

14 In elaborating her theory of the nomadic subject, Braidotti refers to Rich’s notion of 
“the politics of location” (38). Rich coined this expression in Blood, Bread, and Poetry. 
Other important references include Teresa De Lauretis, Caren Kaplan, Donna Haraway, 
Luce Irigaray, and Julia Kristeva. 


334 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


Maraini’s notions of intellectual exile and “vivere vagabondo” are best 
articulated in Ultimo té a Marrakesh, a series of “racconti da una terra di esilio” 
written during the 1990s.!5 Drawing upon her experiences in Morocco, where 
she lived from 1964 to 1986, Maraini combines dialogues, poetic visions, 
memories of daily life, philosophical reflections, and political arguments to 
present a complex picture “di una terra da conoscere, una terra amata come 
‘frammento di patria universale.’"!© Although a member of an intellectually 
prominent family — suffice it to mention her sister Dacia — Maraini assumes 
the authorial persona of an exile from the Italian and Western intellectual 
establishment. In “A/-Ghorba o le confessioni di una esule,” she evokes 
autobiographical memories of an early, forced uprooting and estrangement from 
the familiar to explain her understanding of exile and other conditions that she 
associates with it: migrazione, erranza, and estraneita. Born in Japan during 
World War II, Toni experienced life in a concentration camp at a very tender 
age, because her parents refused to declare allegiance to the Repubblica di Salo; 
after the war, she had to leave the place she felt to be her homeland. To these 
traumatic events Maraini attributes her premature awareness of the 
precariousness of human existence, and the choice of exile and migration as 
“Pultima utopia del mondo” — a free choice she distinguishes from the forced 
one of emigration, “l’ultima maledizione” (94): 


E mentre la distanza dalla sponda si faceva sempre pil grande soverchiando di dolore e 
paura il corpo infantile, sorelle e genitori — che in prigionia, durante la guerra, avevano 
costituito una vera famiglia — si preparavano a un destino diverso dal mio. La famiglia, 
di li a poco, si sarebbe dispersa. E da allora, |’avrei a lungo sentita in qualche modo, e 
malgrado |’affetto, estranea; non tanto perché considerata vagamente responsabile di un 
distacco che nessuno aveva trovato le parole giuste per spiegare, ma perché, di ritorno in 
Italia, si era sentita a casa mentre io questa sensazione — precariamente conquistata e poi 
in pochi anni persa tra i giardini di Bagheria — non I’ho mai potuta avere. [...] La 
bambina arruffata, ridanciana e scontrosa si rinchiuse nel suo mondo, per sempre 
chiamato altrove. 

E cosi che ho organizzato un giorno la mia vita assumendo la mia condizione di 
migrante. I] dizionario etimologico da alla radice di migrare il senso di cambiare, 
passare. Ma nella radice di migrare vi é anche il significato di muoversi, barattare, 
scambiare, prendere e dare e, anche, mutare. Migrare e mutare sono due condizioni 
essenziali. In un certo senso, siamo tutti migranti e migratori, in noi stessi e nel tempo 
prima ancora di esserlo con gli altri e nello spazio. Forse, si tratta della vera condizione 


!5 Exile and wandering are also central figures in Maraini’s poetry. See, for instance, the 
poem “Esilio errante” in Poema d’Oriente. 

16 This phrase appears in the blurb on the cover. All quotes refer to the 2000 edition, 
which includes nine texts already published in 1994, and five new stories: “Dépliant 
borderline,” “Una giornata, un fiume,” “L’esilio su una panchina,” “L’ ultimo pane,” and 
“Una risata transmoderna e neofutura, ovvero: il Convito d’ombre." 





Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 335 


umana; anche se alle societa sedentarie questo disordine geografico fa paura perché 
testimonia della caducita delle cose, dell’irrilevanza dei possessi, dell’universalita delle 
patrie. 

(91-92; emph. in original text) 


To take on the human condition of migranza requires living as if you were 
always a guest in a foreign land, loving the land as if it were your own, accepting 
“cid che questo comporta in attenzione, convivenza e precarieta,” and at the 
same time, embracing “la scelta di estraneita come totale adesione alla esistenza 
stessa, come se la terra altrui fosse una parcella della Patria” (93). But for any 
Western intellectual, remarks Maraini, this is a “[pJeccato mentale grave per 
tutte le frontiere cosi annullate, anche se rispettate e non ignorate; peccato 
mentale grave, pagato con quotidiana pazienza e fatica nel ritorno stesso a un 
Occidente ostile a simili trasgressioni” (93). 

Maraini is bitterly critical of the West for past and present practices against 
the so-called third world: having used emigration as a weapon of invasion and 
destruction, “[l’Occidente] ha dimenticato e tradito la natura stessa — fatta di 
non possesso e di rispetto dell’ospitalita altrui — dei concetti ideali di esilio e 
migrazione. E, cosa paradossale, si sente oggi minacciato. La sua arrogante 
chiusura accompagna e provoca la chiusura di tanti confini reali e simbolici” 
(94). The Italian intellectual establishment, in particular, is chastised for failing 
to perform its function of investigation, illustration, and guidance: 


La cultura, almeno in Italia, ha per decenni voltato le spalle al resto del mondo, o si é 
soddisfatta di luoghi comuni, e, al momento storico attuale, é incapace di svolgere il 
proprio ruolo. Non ha saputo approfondire, e divulgare, in tempo, idee, conoscenza e 
riflessioni adeguate per impedire che la politica — le politiche — e la cosiddetta “cultura 
di massa” si riducessero a un “brodo” di preconcetti. Apocalittici e eurocentrici. / 
problemi, certo, sono tanti: nazionali, internazionali, planetari, fisici e metafisici ... ma 
fanno parte dell’ordine delle cose, dei ritmi del divenire e della storia e come tali 


bisogna affrontarli. 
(165; emph. added) — 


Distancing herself from the impasse of a culture that looks back, 
melancholically, at lost certainties, Maraini champions exile from the “arrogant” 
confines of Eurocentrism as a dynamic, constructive choice: the precondition for 
intellectual migration, which leads to the acquisition, through historical memory, 
of “parametri al contempo antichi e assolutamente nuovi” (50). 

The wandering writer claims affinity with an ideal “tribe” of Arab 
intellectuals, friends, and acquaintances. Her exile is thus not a lonely one; on 
the contrary, the convito is a central structuring situation in her stories. Her most 
recurrent narrative strategy consists in staging conversations among commensals 
that at times cross cultural and temporal boundaries, evoking what she defines 
“un Convito d’ombre”: “Frammentario e confuso. Un atto incompleto; sospeso a 


336 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


una moltitudine di atti mancanti. Un soliloquio senza epilogo. Un monologo con 
parvenza di dialoghi (tutti veridici pur tuttavia). Un racconto senza trama” (77). 

Maraini’s ideal tribe also includes unnamed Westerners who, like her, are 
“[mJutanti occidentali in dissenso con |’Occidente eppure depositari di una 
eredita, una sorta di quintessenza alchemica. Una eredita funzionale, non contro 
tutti ma con tutti” (47; emph. in original text). The stories indeed refer to a vast 
legacy, ranging from religious parables to historical interpretations, from mystic 
visions to enlightened principles of justice, from traditional artifacts to modern 
art.!7 This heritage constitutes the “revered vestiges” in which our collective 
historical memory is condensed — knowledge whose roots reach deep into a 
remote past of “sincretismo mediterraneo” (56). 

Maraini is not concerned with tracing theoretical boundaries between 
logocentric and _ poststructuralist philosophies. Within her intellectual 
community, “il postmoderno é stato liquidato come pallida parodia di quella 
avventurosa esperienza che gli occidentali chiamano oggi, sovente con disgusto 
— ma pur sempre con grande passione possessiva — ‘modemita’“ (58). 
Modernity is defined as “l’avvento, nei punti nevralgici di una cultura, paese, 
epoca o storia, di un pensiero della ragione (non razionalita) e di un processo di 
liberazione dalle visioni costrittive o riduttive collettive. [...] una metafisica 
dell’individuo, una prassi universale di mutazione sociale per una maggiore 
intesa ideale di tutti” (67). 

While Western women are characterized as “paternalistic” and 
“Eurocentric,” Moroccan women play a prominent role in many of Maraini’s 
stories.!8 In “Una giornata, un fiume,” for instance, we meet Fatima and her 


'7 References include, among many others, Hannah Arendt, Ibn ‘Arabi, Jorge Luis 
Borges, Carlos Castaneda, Frantz Fanon, Gialal ad-Din Rumi, Julia Kristeva, and, 
finally, such works as the Gospels, and the Koran. Several contemporary Moroccan 
intellectuals and artists are mentioned by their first names, or by their initials. An entire 
story, “L’ultimo pane,” is dedicated to Lla Rhimu, an illiterate old woman who practices 
a rare, matrilineally transmitted art of bread making. Maraini describes Lla Rhimu’s 
“pane ornato della Grande Festa” (“la madre di tutti i pani” 52) as a compendium of 
ancient symbols: “Abbiamo un sole/ruota coi suoi raggi e coi suoi denti. Un omphalos 
mundi con le sue quattro direzioni. Un cerchio lunare con le sue fasi e i suoi simboli. II 
cosmo nella sua unita: dispensatore di energia, misuratore del tempo ciclico, propiziatore 
astrale garante di fertilita. Il pane del Sacrificio é anche pane propiziatorio. Mircea 
Eliade e Jung lo collocherebbero tra i mandala e le imago mundi del nostro universo 
immaginario” (54). Maraini’s aim is to allow for things such as Lla Rhimu’s traditional 
bread to tell “una storia della Storia” (57). 

'8 This characterization is attributed to a Moroccan activist: “Abbiamo [...] capito che 
non dobbiamo contare sulle donne dell’ Occidente. Saremmo liete di farlo, ma tutto lascia 
supporre che non ci capiscano e, soprattutto, che non facciano uno sforzo reale per 
conoscerci. Hanno spesso interiorizzato attitudini e idee eurocentriche e paternalistiche, e 
non procedono a quella autoanalisi critica che, invece, pretendono da noi” (163). 





Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 337 


daughter, Aisha. “[S]orretta da un adamantino rispetto della dignita, sua e 
degli altri,” Fatima worked hard to make it possible for her daughters to have an 
education; she disapproves of fundamentalism without losing faith in her 
ancestral heritage; and she has in mind the ideal project of a society built on 
principles of coexistence, justice, and equality (30-31). Similarly, Aisha is 
driven by “tenace volonta” and “ideali radicati nei movimenti di riforma e 
emancipazione gia delineatisi ancor prima del colonialismo” (31). Described as 
“tradizional-modern{[e],”!9 these women serve as the prime example of how 
distinctions between tradition and modernity can be misleading and 
counterproductive: 


[...] dove porre il confine tra modernita e tradizione? Come spiegare che |’apertura ai 
Tempi Nuovi non appartiene alle sole é/ites, che non é questione di occidentalizzazione, 
che non ipotizza perdita delle usanze, che risponde a diffuse e legittime aspirazioni che 
scaturiscono lentamente dall’interno stesso della storia sociale opponendosi 
all’islamismo politico che oggi pur sfrutta le ambiguita e tensioni causate dall’incepparsi 
del movimento verso il futuro? 


(31) 


For Maraini, the vital challenge is to avoid the looming danger that “the end 
of all ideologies” may result in the victory of a reactionary one (74). In these 
racconti, written after her return to Italy,2° she disavows the confident, youthful 
vision of a clearly defined path toward change which inspired her activism 
during the years she spent in Morocco. Questioning her own ability to build 
cultural bridges between peoples, she envisions a destiny of neglect for her 
words, “che diventeranno illeggibili, scolorite dal vento e dal sole, si 
trasformeranno in frammenti di parole smarrite e disseminate lungo cammini che 
forse nessuno percorrera” (125). Nevertheless, refusing the nihilistic conclusion 
that history is “dead,” she evokes the image of a “perennial,” though often 
submerged stream, branching out toward different horizons and continents (90). 
Along this web of percorsi, she searches for “tracce della nostra memoria 
antica” (120) — traces of a human heritage on the basis of which a common 


19 “Anche lei [Aisha] é una donna tradizional-moderna — cioé in cammino nella storia, 
non lacerata tra due contrapposizioni ma in movimento lungo un asse che ne incorpora 
dinamiche e funzioni. Vive questo ‘passaggio’ senza incompatibilita, traumi o perdita 
d’identita. Madre e figlia sarebbero forse accusabili di essere ‘alienate occidentalizzate’? 
L’unico loro trauma é la difficile vita di lavoro per guadagnarsi da vivere in una citta 
sempre pili sommersa dai mali di un inurbamento rurale mal gestito dalla incompetenza e 
corruzione delle autorita” (31-32). 

20 After moving back to Italy in 1987, Maraini visited Morocco every year. The racconti 
were “assembled” from notes that she took during these visits: “ad ogni viaggio prendevo 
appunti e poi li ho riuniti in racconti” (Maraini, e-mail). 


338 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


ground of values may be found.?! 

Maraini’s journey beyond the postmodern impasse often follows the path of 
popular mysticism from ancient times to our day. In “Visita al santuario” and 
“Viaggio a Thamusida,” for instance, she pursues the migrations and 
connections of different religious traditions — in particular, pagan cults, Islamic 
sufism and Jewish cabalism. Symbolic residues of these connections, forged at 
the Mediterranean crossroads of European, African and Asian cultures, can still 
be found among the ruins of ancient places of worship, situated “[a]l confluire 
tra il sacro e il profano” (97), whose memory was repressed by the conflicting 
ideologies of colonialism and Islamic nationalism. Though abandoned to a 
destiny of ruin, this pre-Islamic past has survived by flowing into the vital 
crucible of popular traditions. For Maraini, “la cultura popolare maghrebina, [é] 
depositaria delle molteplici dimensioni d’un passato che é fondamento, archetipo 
e linguaggio simbolico. Per chi cerca di rintracciare e capire le radici e le 
fratture comuni della cultura mediterranea, questo patrimonio é inestinguibile 
lezione. Anche quando si presenta a noi come leggenda, sparizione e rovina” 
(121). 

What lesson does Maraini derive from the traces of ancient religions? Her 
interest in rituals of ecstatic trance is especially telling. The common practice of 
“danze estatiche” points to connections among various cults — from the 
Dionysian mysteries to Hinduism — which undermine stereotypical distinctions 
between Western rationality and Eastern irrationality: “I] confluire sotterraneo e 
complementare delle loro diverse interpretazioni e visioni del mondo costituisce 
la base di una storia perenne, |’unica che a me sembra importante cercare di 
capire e decifrare” (124; emph. in original text). Unearthing such links is a way 
of reconstructing a genealogy of “embodied” spirituality: “Pit che di 
spiritualita,” explains Maraini, “si tratta di rispondere a una sollecitazione 
profonda radicata nell’evoluzione biologica stessa del nostro corpo che in 
qualche modo tenta simbolicamente — e in modi diversi — di oltrepassare i 
limiti del visibile e dell’ ordine materiale delle cose” (124). 

One might object that valorizing primitive cults and traditions is a 
regressive move, which contradicts Maraini’s emphasis on the intellectual legacy 
of the Enlightenment (“un pensiero della ragione” 67). Such an emphasis, in 


21 “Forse siamo stati guidati dagli ultimi indizi di una storia che alcuni sostengono essere 
finita come i viaggi. Ma la storia é una catena dai tanti anelli diramanti ricollegati ad altre 
catene che attraversano il tempo con invidiabile affascinante disinvoltura e farla morire ¢ 
arduo; anche se gia si dissolve nel continuo presente del brodo mediatico. Per chi come 
noi si ostina ad amarla e interrogarla, tutto é ricollegato in una trama di tasselli e fili 
trascinati dal tempo. Eterno ritorno o fiume pitagorico che sia, fluisce costante e lascia 
segni. Finita o non finita, questa epopea di memorie ci aiuta ad affrontare oggi il frullato 
omogeneizzato dei segni. Alla loro ricerca, i nostri spostamenti sono avvenuti nello 
spazio e nel tempo” (15). 





Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 339 


turn, may be considered (by postmodern standards) conservative, and hence at 
odds with her transgressive textual practices, which undermine conventional 
principles of narrative progress. I believe, however, that the valorization of a 
given heritage is not necessarily a regressive or conservative move, just as the 
experimental breakdown of conventional forms is not necessarily a progressive 
one. In both cases, one must ask what is at stake from a political and ethical 
standpoint. Maraini shows that it is possible to undermine claims to cultural 
mastery by appealing to tradition. At the same time, she suggests that the 
opposite result — establishing cultural mastery — can be achieved not only by 
celebrating past triumphs, but also by deconstructing them, “sovente con 
disgusto — ma pur sempre con grande passione possessiva” (58). 

Over the past century, many influential representations of ecstatic, epiphanic 
experiences were inspired by the Nietzschean notion of the Dionysian as a 
solipsistic escape from the daily. Maraini, on the contrary, tends to place such 
experiences in a convivial context.2? For the protagonist of “Visita al santuario,” 
for instance, the journey’s crucial moment of “ex-static” revelation is an 
encounter with a group of pilgrims: 


I pellegrini ti offrono ancora del té. Nebbia e grande solitudine dei luoghi. “Sidi ‘Abd ar- 
Rahman é veramente grande", dice una vecchia donna. “Ma tu, da dove vieni?” chiede un 
altro. Tu rispondi che vieni da lontano. “Quanto lontano pud essere?”, dice ridendo la 
vecchia donna “non pud esserci pid! lontano della morte! . . .”. Qualcuno ti da un leggero 
colpetto sulla spalla, ti versa ancora del té, e per farti capire il senso di quella frase dice 
“anche la cosa che sembra pit) lontana, é vicina; niente é veramente lontano; siamo tutti 
vicini.” 


(100) 


Words such as these, for Maraini, are not simply residues of popular wisdom; 
they are the quintessence of a precious heritage, which has been transmitted “in 
una catena di travasamenti, nel corso della storia delle culture, lungo cammini 
imprevedibili e molteplici” (133). In order to be part of “the becoming of 
consciousness,” one must connect with this flow, wandering in time and space. 
Like Alice’s ‘divenire della coscienza,” the wandering of the 
“Incorreggibile Viaggiatrice” (125) is a journey of initiation to the “total being” 
(127), understood not as a complete experience of metaphysical abstraction, but 
as a recurrent mental experience.2> In Maraini’s “vagabondo vivere” (120), in 
fact, the construction of the self is an ongoing project, which cannot depart from 
the concreteness and contradictions of history: “Ripiombiamo nella storia. 


22 See Maffesoli on commensality as a custom that permits an “ex-stasis” within 
everyday life (25). 

23 “Sj, divaga il pensiero. E insistente ripercorre i] cammino di quell’attimo d’iniziazione 
verso cui é stato sospinto. E la Viaggiatrice intuisce che in qualche luogo del suo essere 
irreale il viaggio a Thamusida non avra mai fine” (127). 


340 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


Ognuno di noi ne conosce ingiustizie e orrori; ognuno assume la propria 
consapevolezza. Coscienti che senza visione dell’essere totale, questa 
consapevolezza non potra condurci oltre il millennio” (127; emph. added). The 
ultimate lesson is that the ontological and the historical path must be integrated. 
Awareness that we all belong to the same “patria universale” must provide an 
ethical point of reference for a constructive approach to history. 

Maraini has no pretense or hope of recovering the power of the “pure” word 
to convey supreme moments of illumination, in the mode of hermetic poetry. She 
does not indulge in nostalgia for a lost “paese innocente.”24 Nor does she 
approach writing in a fetishistic, exoticist mode, as a way to compensate for loss 
of authenticity. She attacks, in fact, the self-indulgent exoticism of expatriates 
like Paul Bowles, whose famous novel, // té nel deserto, may have inspired her 
Ultimo té a Marrakesh.2> Maraini was acquainted with the deracinated Western 
writers living in Morocco, and describes them as “ancorati a una visione 
approssimativa del paese, a una illusione scenografica” (139). She compares the 
voluntary uprooting of the lost generation to the forced uprooting of the 
colonized, who were abused and reduced into dire poverty: 


Quando Port, l’eroe del libro di Bowles // té nel deserto, approda in Nord Africa nel 
1931, la prima cosa che nota é “lo sguardo famelico dei passanti.” [...] Ma questa fame, 
nel suo romanzo, resta inspiegata e inspiegabile. Come gli etnologi coloniali, Port pensa 
che il fardello della storia appartenga soltanto agli occidentali. Si avvolge nella propria 
nausea esistenziale e in quella fredda indifferenza, in quella sinistra e vezzosa spavalderia 
ostentata dalla /ost generation. [...] Nel romanzo di Bowles, la fame serve per rendere gli 
arabi pili tetri e “bestiali.” 

(141) 


The contrast between the dehumanizing hunger of Bowles’s Arab “extras” and 
the conviviality at the center of Maraini’s stories highlights the distance between 
the two books. Many other examples could be quoted. The aforementioned 
exchange among the pilgrims at the sanctuary, for instance, can be compared to 
Port’s “superstition” about “the laboring classes": the romantic notion that 
“gems of wisdom might yet issue from their mouths,” which Port has come to 
recognize as an “unreasoning belief’ (Bowles 15). Only the contemplation of 
untainted nature — the desert and the sky — can inspire in Bowles’s (anti)hero a 
sense of ecstatic communion with the Other; but to one so “unhealthily 
preoccupied with himself’ (Bowles 164), “proximity to infinite things” 
predictably brings feelings of utter solitude and emptiness (Bowles 99). 
Maraini’s book leads to routes other than those made familiar by exoticist 
literature and by the tourist industry. Each reader is invited to pursue a different 


24 The quote is from Giuseppe Ungaretti’s poem “Girovago” (Vita d'un uomo 85). 
25 J] té nel deserto is the title of the Italian translation of The Sheltering Sky (1949), 
whose first part is entitled “Tea in the Sahara.” 








Toni Maraini’s vivere vagabondo: Exile as the Last Utopia 341 


itinerary while also sharing, in the convivial act of reading, the author’s 

experience: her practice of “smarrimento” as a “segreta arte di vita.”26 Getting 
lost means allowing the force of history to blow away chronic certainties that 
constitute a barrier to historical understanding: “La forza della storia scardina 
eventi e certezze. Beato chi ne aveva poche, delicate, vaganti e ab origine. 


_ Umane” (79). The expanded version begins with a piece, “Dépliant borderline,” 


which declares the book’s aim to guide us in becoming exiles, “strangers to 
ourselves.”27 We are encouraged to be travelers (not visitors) in Morocco, and 
we are warmed against the main obstacle to traveling: an archive of images that 
create a virtual country, a caricature, at once seductive and repulsive, beyond 
which Morocco remains “terra incognita” (11). Travel is an arduous, haunting 
experience, not an enchanting one; it involves discovering, in Maraini’s words, 
“eterna comune umanita in cammino nella stessa Storia con complicate 
situazioni politiche e poliziesche, conflitti sociali e ideologici, problemi che non 
si addicono a visite turistiche, nonché lumi intellettuali, fermenti artistici, 
venerabili storie e aspirazioni universali che credevate riservati soltanto al vostro 
mondo” (12). Exile, from this perspective, is not the conventional metaphor for 
an intrapsychic state of existential alienation, but a revived figure for an ethically 
and politically driven move toward intercultural understanding. It does not evoke 
nostalgia for lost origins, authenticity, and meaning; it points instead to a place 
beyond “le frontiere del sapere comune” (43), where it is still possible to follow 
“le coordinate comuni dell’umano” (47). 


The University of Iowa 





26 “1.9 smarrimento, io I’ho praticato come segreta arte di vita, arte di far perdere le 
tracce, di giocare me stessa inseguendo i segni del tempo e della storia disseminati tra 
caverne e termitai. Col rischio, non previsto allora, di perdere le tracce di me, unica 
perdente-e-vincente di un gioco solitario la cui estrema presunzione era quella di 
diventare un giorno un vostro segreto ricordo” (80; emph. in original text). 

27 Maraini borrows this notion from Kristeva’s Etrangers a nous-mémes, which she 
quotes in closing: “l’estraneita é in noi stessi; siamo i nostri stranieri; ma se io sono 
straniero, non ci sono pit stranieri al mondo; [o c’é] un cosmopolitismo di tipo nuovo, 
trasversale ai governi, alle economie e ai mercati” (19). 


342 Cinzia Sartini Blum 


Works Cited 


Borradori, Giovanna, ed. Recoding Metaphysics: The New Italian Phylosophy. Evanston: 
Northwestern UP, 1988. 

Bowles, Paul. The Sheltering Sky. 1949. New York: Vintage International, 1990. 

Braidotti, Rosi. Nomadic Subjects: Embodiment and Sexual Difference in Contemporary 
Feminist Theory. New York: Columbia UP, 1994. 

De Marco, Giuseppe. Mitografia dell’esule. Da Dante al Novecento. Napoli: Edizioni 
Scientifiche Italiane, 1996. 

Fraire, Manuela. “La linea d’ombra.” AA.VV. Tra nostalgia e trasformazione. Atti dei 
seminari: Il viaggio/Le donne tra nostalgia e trasformazione. Firenze: Centro 
Documentazione Donna e Libreria delle Donne, 1986. 28-34. 

Kristeva, Julia. Etrangers a nous-mémes. Paris: Fayard, 1988. 

Luzi, Mario. “L’esilio, Dante, la poesia.” Naturalezza del poeta. Saggi critici. Ed. 
Giancarlo Quiriconi. Milano: Garzanti, 1984. 200-08. 

Maffesoli, Michel. The Time of the Tribes: The Decline of Individualism in Mass Society. 
Trans. Don Smith. London: Sage Publications, 1996. 

Maraini, Toni. Anno /424. Introd. Maria Corti. Venezia: Marsilio, 1976. 

. E-mail to the author. 6 Aug. 2002. 

. La murata. Romanzo. Introd. Alberto Moravia. Palermo: La Luna, 1991. 

. Poema d’oriente. Roma: Semar, 2000. 

. Sealed in Stone. Trans. Arthur Kalmer Bierman. Pref. Toni Maraini. Introd. 
Alberto Moravia. San Francisco: City Lights Books, 2002. 

. Ultimo té a Marrakesh. Racconti. Roma: Edizioni Lavoro, 1994. 

. Ultimo té a Marrakesh e nuovi racconti. Roma: Edizioni Lavoro, 2000. 

Misciattelli, Piero, ed. Le lettere di S. Caterina da Siena. Vol. 4. Firenze: Marzocco, 
1939. 

Montale, Eugenio. L’opera in versi. Ed. Rosanna Bettarini and Gianfranco Contini. 
Torino: Einaudi, 1980. 

Rich, Adrienne. Blood, Bread, and Poetry. London: The Women’s Press, 1984. 

Said, Edward W. “Reflections on Exile.” Reflections on Exile and Other Essays. 
Cambridge, MA: Harvard UP, 2000. 173-86. 

Ungaretti, Giuseppe. Vita d’un uomo. Tutte le poesie. Ed. Leone Piccioni. Milano: 
Mondadori, 1982. 








Laura Rorato 


L’arte di perdere peso di Mario Fortunato, 
owvero il paradigma dell’esilio in eta contemporanea 


Il presente lavoro intende illustrare come il concetto di esilio in eta moderna e 
postmoderna smetta di avere connotazioni regionali o territoriali precise per 
diventare simbolo della condizione umana (Brooke-Rose 12). Come sostiene 
Celati in Finzioni occidentali, il dramma dell’uomo contemporaneo é quello di 
essere senza origini, consapevole che “nessuna identita va bene, nessuna 
interiorita 0 origine ci appartiene (semmai: noi apparteniamo all’indifferenziato 
terreno di ogni origine, come le cose e le piante)” (Celati, Finzioni occidentali 
207). Sempre secondo Celati, si tratta di una condizione che pud essere 
sintetizzata attraverso il principio della differenza, la poetica archeologica e 
leffetto letterario dello straniamento che, portandoci costantemente su un 
“terreno estraneo”, ci costringono finalmente a fare i conti con l’esistenza 
dell’altro (Finzioni 197). Ed @ proprio questo scendere a patti con I’altro, 
espresso essenzialmente tramite la metafora della malattia o dell’ omosessualita, 
che ci aiuta a comprendere il significato dell’esilio in L’arte di perdere peso. 

La prima cosa che colpisce il lettore nell’opera di Mario Fortunato é il fatto 
che tutti i personaggi 0 muoiono 0, se sopravvivono, come il Dott. Blasi o 
Madame Lebrun, sono ridotti a larve. Molti personaggi inoltre sono di origine 
ebrea, e quindi esiliati per eccellenza (Kolakowski, Jn Praise of Exile 189-90), 
oppure, come si é gia accennato, omosessuali. Per quanto riguarda le donne, 
invece, sono quasi tutte vedove o separate, ed in generale il mondo dei 
personaggi di Fortunato risulta caratterizzato dall’assenza di un’autorita 
patriarcale, aspetto che sembra simboleggiare questa particolare forma di esilio 
esistenziale” 0, pit in generale, la condizione postmoderna, dove é il concetto 
stesso di autorita a venir messo in discussione. Se, come ci ricorda William 
Gass, per i Greci la nascita rappresentava la prima esperienza di esilio (Gass 4), 
per molti personaggi di L’arte di perdere peso é il proprio corpo a farsi 


' Tutte le citazioni si riferiscono all’edizione Einaudi del 1997. Mario Fortunato (1958) 
vive e lavora a Londra dove dirige |’Istituto italiano di cultura. Con Einaudi ha pubblicato 
anche: Luoghi naturali, Il primo cielo, Sangue e Amore, romanzi e altre scoperte. Con 
Theoria ha pubblicato il libro inchiesta Jmmigrato (con Salah Methnani) e i reportage 
Passaggi paesaggi. Il suo ultimo romanzo si intitola /’amore rimane, Milano, Rizzoli, 
2001. Fortunato scrive anche per “L’Espresso” e “La Stampa” e tutti i suoi libri sono 
tradotti in varie lingue. 

? Bakhtin, ad esempio, ritiene che la condizione di homelessness rappresenti un rifiuto a 
sottometersi al potere patriarcale e dia connotazioni positive all’esilio da lui inteso come 
forma di liberta intellettuale. A questo proposito si veda Neubauer 278. 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


344 Laura Rorato 


portavoce di questo stato: “[...] non ero bello come bambino”, dice Oku, il 
tecnico delle luci giapponese, “e forse questo acuiva il senso di separazione tra 
me e il mondo” (160). “Vivere come individui, nella separatezza del corpo 
proprio, con una faccia che non abbiamo scelto, e certi manierismi che 
comunque ci consegnano a una rappresentazione dell’umano” fa parte, secondo 
Celati, di quei limiti che affliggono qualsiasi uomo.’ Per i personaggi di 
Fortunato, pero, il tutto é aggravato dalla coscienza della propria diversita e/o 
dalla malattia, simbolo della frammentazione che affligge l’eta postmoderna 
(Morris 67) e, per usare le parole di Francis Scott Fitzgerald, inserite da uno dei 
protagonisti, il fotografo David Pradine, nel proprio diario, “quando si é soli nel 
corpo e nello spirito si ha bisogno di solitudine e la solitudine causa altra 
solitudine” (174). Infatti, sebbene esistano dei fili che accomunano tutti i 
personaggi di questo romanzo essi ne restano inconsapevoli anche quando il 
caso li fa incontrare: “[...] si specchiano I’uno nell’altro in maniera misteriosa” e 
traspare una trama, ma né a noi né a loro é lecito decifrarla (Van Rossum 213). 

Tuttavia, per comprendere pienamente il significato di tale tema in un 
romanzo in cui ben nove capitoli sui complessivi ventidue sono _intitolati 
“esilio”, é necessario seguire il percorso esistenziale di alcuni suoi protagonisti 
principali (il dottor Balsi, Myriam Levi, il professor Fabre ed il fotografo 
Pradine), cercando di comprendere il significato che la malattia acquista per 
ognuno di essi, e analizzando l’espressione spaziale che l’esilio assume nei 
singoli casi. 

Cominceremo con il Dott. Benedetto Blasi, un medico italiano che 
incontriamo nel momento in cui, rientrando a casa, scopre il cadavere della 
moglie Dina, morta suicida. Blasi e la moglie, di origine ebrea, erano stati 
sposati per diversi anni ma non tutti quegli anni erano stati felici. Gia prima 
della malattia della moglie, che l’aveva costretta a subire un’operazione al colon 
(9), il loro rapporto si era incrinato in seguito ad una misteriosa lettera, 
indirizzata a un certo Lee, che aveva fatto supporre a Balsi che Dina avesse 
avuto un amante.* Di lui sappiamo anche che aveva partecipato alla seconda 
guerra mondiale come ufficiale medico e che la sua vita era stata segnata dal 
senso di colpa per aver negato, durante la campagna d’ Africa, il soccorso ad un 
ragazzo sardo di nome Franco che, come Blasi, “aveva preferito perdersi 
piuttosto che rimanere in mezzo a quel massacro” (122). Pur essendo entrambi 
affetti da dissenteria amebica, Blasi aveva finito di tenere per sé l’unica boccetta 


3 Celati, Introduzione, in Melville, Bartleby lo scrivano xiii. 

* Dina in realta era stata una ragazza madre e Lee era il nome del figlio che aveva avuto e 
che lei, vista la sua giovane eta, aveva dato in adozione a degli zii. Dina non aveva mai 
detto niente in proposito al marito e anche quando Lee, scoperta la vera identita della 
propria madre, inizia a contattarla, non riesce a trovare il coraggio di svelare il proprio 
segreto. E questo uno dei tanti esempi di come la catena dell’incomunicabilita e della 
solitudine si ripetano all’ infinito. 





L’arte di perdere peso di M. Fortunato, owvero il paradigma dell’esilio 345 


disponibile di emetina e di abbandonare il ragazzo in una fattoria dove per 
alcuni giorni avevano trovato rifugio insieme. Ironicamente, Franco era 
soprawvissuto a quella terribile avventura ma era morto di droga all’eta di 
ventiquattro anni. Blasi perd non aveva mai pili avuto sue notizie e dal giorno 
dell’abbandono il ragazzo continuava ad apparirgli, direttamente o 
indirettamente, in terribili incubi. I] pit inquietante di tutti gli incubi riguarda il 
risultato di un esame chimico microscopico delle feci che emerge dal vuoto su 
un foglio bianco “che alle volte é tanto grande da sembrare un sudario” ma che 
Blasi non riesce a decifrare e i cui dettagli svaniscono appena si sveglia (10). 

I] sogno, per Celati, “é la metafora dell’estraneita, o del taglio da cid che é 
perduto” e pertanto é paragonabile all’esilio, ma come “non si pud parlare del 
sogno se non a partire dalla veglia, non si pud parlare dell’altro se non a partire 
dall’io”. Paradossalmente, é solo imparando a conoscere ed accettando se stessi 
che si possono intravedere delle alternative (Finzioni 200-01) e arrivare a 
superare i limiti del proprio io. Quando cid avviene, l’esperienza dell’esilio 
assume connotazioni positive. Spesso, pero, non si ha il coraggio di guardare a 
se stessi e la vita si trasforma in una fuga: “[...] e cosi scappai, come ti fa 
scappare la paura [...]. Pensavo al mare come a un punto di fuga universale” 
(119), dice Blasi a proposito della propria esperienza durante la guerra. 

A conferma delle parole di Fitzgerald sopra citate, l’esilio finisce per 
produrre altro esilio e da origine a un moto perpetuo che sembra giustificare la 
definizione di Thomas Pavel che vede “l’esilio propriamente inteso” come una 
sottospecie della pit generale nozione di mobilita umana (Pavel 26). I 
personaggi di Fortunato, infatti, risultano affetti da un perenne bisogno di 
muoversi e di viaggiare e non riescono a restare fissi in un luogo per troppo 
tempo. Questa tendenza al nomadismo risulta direttamente proporzionale alla 
loro irrequietezza interiore, all’impossibilita di dare risposte definitive ai propri 
quesiti esistenziali. Come illustra chiaramente Mark Augé, a proposito dei “non- 
luoghi della supermodernita”, l;uomo contemporaneo, ontologicamente fragile, 
finisce per trovarsi a proprio agio solo in luoghi di transito (aeroporti, stazioni di 
servizio, supermercati, autostrade, ecc.) dove pud celarsi dietro ad una 
temporanea identita collettiva (viaggiatore, autista domenicale, cliente, ecc.) e 
godere di un’anonimita liberatoria in uno spazio “duty-free” (Augé 100-01). La 
sovrabbondanza di eventi e “l’accumulo di discussioni secondarie” che 
caratterizzano |’eta contemporanea creano, secondo Dainotto, nell’autore 
postmoderno (ma anche nel semplice individuo inteso come soggetto) una 
situazione di blocco che per certi versi sarebbe simile al sublime Kantiano, alla 
paura e allo stupore che si provano davanti ad una forza schiacciante senza limiti 
(Dainotto 150). Nel sublime postmoderno pero il blocco é di natura ironica e ad 
esso segue una fase di liberazione spesso rappresentata tramite la metafora della 
defecazione (Dainotto 154-55). Non sorprende quindi che molti personaggi di 
L’arte di perdere peso soffrano di disturbi gastrointestinali o di malattie legate 
all’assunzione del cibo, quali la bulimia. Nel caso di Blasi, ad esempio, sebbene 


346 Laura Rorato 


non sia affetto da nessuna particolare patologia, appare ugualmente ossessionato 
dal proprio apparato digerente tanto che spesso si abbandona a “riflessioni 
teologiche sui nostri, come dire? processi escrementizi, sull’essenza e le forme 
della defecazione o sulla [...] transustanziazione della materia organica [...]” 
(32). Secondo Dainotto, questo é il prezzo che il soggetto postmoderno deve 
pagare per sopravvivere: “[...] rinunciando a qualsiasi consistenza metafisica 
questo tipo di soggetto diventa, quasi letteralmente, un escremento, un surplus 
che non puo essere codificato ed iscritto nelle fabbricate nozioni di ‘realta’” 
(156). 

Eccoci quindi ancora una volta difronte ad una forma di esilio volontario 
inteso a negare il concetto di soggettivita, o meglio a sottolineare — di nuovo 
secondo Dainotto — che “la soggettivita pud esistere solo come processo 
digestivo in una sublime manipolazione di categorie preesistenti” (156). Non si 
pud tuttavia dimenticare che il titolo di questo romanzo sembra anche un 
omaggio alla prima delle lezioni americane di Calvino, interamente basata 
sull’opposizione leggerezza-peso, in cui la leggerezza viene vista come un 
valore da perseguire e consistente non in un rifiuto della realta a favore di fughe 
nel sogno o nell’irrazionale, bensi in un rifiuto della visione diretta e nella 
capacita di aprirsi a una nuova ottica di guardare il mondo che accetti la 
precarieta dei processi che creano o determinano le forme viventi (Calvino 9, 12, 
26) 0, per usare ancora le parole di Dainotto, la natura fittizia delle strutture di 
potere (159). Il fenomeno qui descritto ricorda quello che Sveltana Boym 
chiama “ironic nostalgia”, grazie a cui, sottolineando I’“algia” rispetto al 
“nostos”, si arrivano ad accettare (anche se non ad apprezzare) 1 paradossi 
dell’esilio e dell’alienazione (Boym 242). Come sostiene Czeslaw Milosz, 
inoltre, “l’esilio accettato come destino, come si accetta una malattia incurabile, 
dovrebbe aiutarci a riconoscere le nostre illusioni” (36). Non si tratta pero di un 
processo quale fine a se stesso, quasi apocalittico, bensi di qualcosa che 
permettera finalmente al soggetto di immaginare nuovi intrecci, nuove storie, 
nuove vite da raccontare (Dainotto 159), anche se il processo stesso, ovvero il 
movimento tra ritenzione e liberazione, si rivela pi importante del risultato 
finale, tanto che si cerchera di ritardare all’infinito la produzione di un 
significato definitivo (Dainotto 161). 

Benedetto Blasi, tuttavia, non ha ancora raggiunto questa consapevolezza e 
l’ossessione per il proprio corpo e l’osservazione maniacale dei propri 
escrementi funzionano, come sosteneva sua moglie Dina, da barriera “utile a 
proteggersi dall’imprevedibilita della vita” (14). Non sono altro che un’illusione, 
quindi: un’altra fuga che non fa che ripetere per I’ennesima volta quella in cui 
aveva abbandonato il ragazzo sardo in fin di vita e che l’aveva spinto a tornare a 
Djerba, dopo tanti anni, proprio per “un personale bisogno di espiazione” (17). 
Blasi, perd, si rivela incapace di trascendere i propri limiti ed é per questo che 
finisce per lasciarsi spegnere, ridotto ormai ad una larva, nel penitenziario di 
Gabés, senza nemmeno cercare di ribellarsi alle ingiuste accuse dell’omicidio di 





L’arte di perdere peso di M. Fortunato, ovwvero il paradigma dell’esilio 347 


Fabre, o almeno riferire “cid che aveva visto nei visceri di Fabre, il giorno in cui 
aveva partecipato all’autopsia” (199), fatto che avrebbe gettato luce sulle vere 
cause della morte del professore francese. Ironicamente, per un uomo a cui una 
“mancata deiezione” provocava un terribile abbattimento (24), Blasi resta fermo, 
secondo la metafora di Dainotto, alla fase di blocco. 

Altro fondamentale personaggio di questo romanzo é Myriam Levi. Di lei 
sappiamo che é nata in America, che é ebrea di origini italiane, e che aveva 
avuto un marito italiano da cui si era separata. E sovrappeso e soffre di bulimia. 
Per molti anni aveva lavorato come fotografa, mestiere che in realta detestava 
(viste anche le dimensioni del proprio corpo) e che aveva finito per abbandonare 
per scrivere libri di cucina: L’arte di perdere peso é il titolo che intende dare al 
suo primo libro. Ancora una volta é il corpo a farsi portavoce dell’ inevitabile 
condizione di esilio che caratterizza l’;uomo contemporaneo. Come illustra 
David Morris, in eta postmoderna l’utopia perde le tradizionali connotazioni 
sociopolitiche e persino quelle temporali che la situavano in un lontano futuro e 
finisce per trasferire il proprio luogo al solitario e privato corpo individuale. I] 
corpo postmoderno, sempre secondo Morris, viene reinventato come oggetto 
visivo e la patinata foto commerciale ne diventa la massima espressione (///ness 
and Culture 137-38). Non potrebbe esservi quindi destino pit crudele per una 
donna come Myriam che, oltre ad essere sovrappeso, € costretta perennemente a 
muoversi, visto il proprio lavoro, tra corpi perfetti, secondo i canoni dell’utopia 
postmoderna, che non fanno altro che ricordarle la propria colpevole diversita. 
Come molti personaggi di questo romanzo, Myriam reagisce riproducendo 
volontariamente ulteriori forme di esilio. Il ferreo regime dietetico a cui si 
sottopone ne é un esempio: 


In pochi minuti, la colazione era terminata. Myriam dedicd una panoramica struggente e 
desolata a tutte le vivande che avrebbe potuto far sue: accarezzd con gli occhi le 
marmellate, i diversi tipi di miele, ammiro i panini caldi all’olio [...]. Prima di alzarsi [...] 
Myriam si senti come una creatura costretta a una sorta di volontario esilio, condannata a 
vagare in una terra crudelmente priva di sapori. 

(19-20) 


Myriam, come si é precedentemente accennato, soffre anche di bulimia, 
malattia che secondo Yudice simboleggia |’impossibilita di gestire il proprio io 
tipica dell’epoca contemporanea in cui il soggetto, soprattutto quello femminile, 
é costantemente sottoposto a stimoli contraddittori. La societa dei consumi da un 
lato pone al centro della nostra cultura l’immagine femminile, per il suo potere 
di seduzione, e dall’altro impone la repressione della natura essenziale del corpo 
femminile, presentando come ideale un corpo magro, ma allo stesso tempo 
muscoloso e quasi virile (Yudice 23). Questa serie di impulsi conflittuali porta a 
quella situazione di blocco descritta da Dainotto in cui il soggetto, sopraffatto da 
forze schiaccianti, finisce per sentirsi paralizzato. Come confermano il caso di 


348 Laura Rorato 


Myriam (37) e di Fabre (44), questo fenomeno si manifesta con attacchi di 
letargia spesso accompagnati da un completo disinteresse per il proprio corpo, a 
cui non si presta pill alcuna cura, in quanto percepito come inutile eccedenza . A 
questo proposito é interessante notare che Myriam, in una delle varie lettere che 
scrive al dottor Balsi, definisce l’escremento in termini di cibo originario (34) e, 
dal momento che secondo Sartre il cibo rivela una scelta esistenziale (344), 
viene spontaneo concludere che Myriam, almeno nelle fasi di depressione acuta 
che accompagnano gli intervalli tra episodi bulimici, si identifichi con 
lescremento. Myriam, tuttavia, cerca di combattere il proprio “Male”, come lei 
stessa lo chiama (36), e riuscira a perdere peso quando abbandonera, in primo 
luogo l’America — paese che secondo Patella incarna la condizione 
postmoderna in cui “l’uomo ha perduto il centro, il luogo privilegiato che lo 
vedeva nel mezzo del mondo” (Patella 109) e, quindi, sinonimo di esilio — e, in 
secondo luogo, la fotografia. Come viene suggerito da Calvino, Myriam impara 
a guardare il mondo da un/altra ottica (Lezioni 12) e il suo gesto di abbandono 
della fotografia a favore dello scrivere sembra voler sottolineare quella che 
Calvino chiama “‘funzione esistenziale della letteratura”, dove la ricerca della 
leggerezza é “una reazione al peso del vivere” (Lezioni 33). Le sue ricette sono 
lespressione di questo nuovo approccio alla vita e costituiscono, per dirla 
ancora con Calvino, “un’immagine figurale di leggerezza” che assume valore 
emblematico (Lezioni 22). Il messaggio che Myriam vuole lanciare é@ che 
mangiare non deve essere necessariamente una tragedia,° o una forma di suicidio 
rituale, come era sempre stato per lei, ma puod diventare un piacere dello spirito, 
“un esercizio di rinuncia, una forma di erotismo: il primo passo verso una nuova 
vita” (132). Si tratta, tuttavia, di un passo difficile, di una transizione che non 
pud avwvenire all’improvviso e, nonostante i buoni propositi, una volta raggiunto 
il peso forma, Myriam riprende leggermente ad ingrassare. E come se il suo 
corpo, che per anni si era espresso in un certo modo,’ si rifiutasse di apprendere 


> A questo proposito é interessante notare che Shammas (86) vede |’esilio come una 
condizione mentale che comporta un allontanarsi dallo stile tragico per andare verso la 
commedia, verso un personale linguaggio di grazia. Myriam stessa dice di aver scoperto 
nel cibo la sua vera lingua (133) e il termine grazia sembra adatto a descrivere le sue 
ricette in cui i vari ingredienti si fondono armoniosamente dando origine a piatti gustosi 
“quanto impalpabili” (131). 

® Secondo Medeiros, chi soffre di disturbi legati all’alimentazione cerca sempre di porsi 
al di fuori della societa e di trascendere i limiti del proprio io fino a confondersi con lo 
spazio circostante. Sebbene Medeiros prenda essenzialmente in esame il lasciarsi morire 
di fame dell’anoressico e porti come esempio il protagonista del racconto The Hunger 
Artist di Kafka che, a forza di rifiutare il cibo, riduce il proprio corpo a tal punto che 
sembra davvero svanire tra la paglia che ricopre il fondo della gabbia in cui é rinchiuso, 
un simile processo, secondo Baudrillard, si verifica anche nell’obeso. Il continuo 
accumulo di peso é un modo di scomparire del corpo, un modo di cancellare quel 
margine segreto che delimita la sfera del corpo. E come se il corpo, abolendo ogni limite, 





L’arte di perdere peso di M. Fortunato, owvero il paradigma dell’esilio 349 


un nuovo linguaggio. Se Myriam riesca 0 meno a vincere la propria battaglia e a 
rompere la catena dell’esilio rimane un mistero perché di lei si perdono le tracce. 
La notizia della sua morte, che casualmente apprendiamo da una lettera di Susan 
e Steve Serrano a Lina Cuccu, ma che non ne specifica le cause, compare nel 
testo addirittura prima del capitolo dedicato alla sua arte culinaria e al suo 
proposito di riuscire ad aiutare persone come lei “a liberarsi di bulimia e 
anoressia come di un velo inutile e ipocrita” (133). 

Uno studio su L’arte di perdere peso, tuttavia, non potrebbe essere 
completo senza un’analisi di Julien Fabre, il personaggio la cui morte misteriosa 
lega e allontana le esistenze inquiete — come dice la quarta di copertina — di 
tutti gli altri personaggi del romanzo. Si tratta di un professore omosessuale 
francese che col passare degli anni finisce per diventare quasi un pedofilo. 
Incapace di accettare e vivere serenamente la propria diversita, Fabre si rifugia 
in occasionali incontri sessuali regolati dal denaro e non complicati dai 
sentimenti. Sceglie ragazzi sempre pil’ giovani proprio per non dover 
comunicare con loro e non farsi troppe illusioni (41). Il suo atteggiamento nei 
confronti del sesso é simile a quello di Myriam nei confronti del cibo: appare 
dettato da un bisogno di punizione, da una diversita vissuta come colpa: 


Fabre avvertiva il proprio corpo come un materiale esibito e intercambiabile, e questo 
annientamento, questa riduzione di sé a cosa, era insieme il trionfo e la negazione della 


sua personalita. 
(42) 


Paulo Medeiros, nel suo studio dedicato alla rappresentazione letteraria di 
bulimia ed anoressia, afferma che, per i personaggi dei racconti da lui presi in 
esame, i disturbi legati all’assunzione del cibo costituiscono I’unico strumento 
che questi hanno per affermare se stessi come individui (Disorderly Eaters 13). 
Lo stesso sembra potersi dire per i brevi amori clandestini di Fabre, ed é ancora 
una volta un testo dedicato ai disturbi dell’alimentazione ad aiutarci a capire il 
comportamento sessuale del professore francese. Yudice, in un’analisi del 
rapporto tra mistico e anoressico, ad esempio, sostiene che per molti il perenne 
senso di perdita, legato al ridursi dell’esperienza tipico dell’eta contemporanea, 
diventa il punto di partenza per un desiderio di gloria, grandezza e potere 
(Essays in Postmodern Culture 16-17). Ed é proprio una sensazione di controllo 
e conquista che Fabre deriva dalla caccia notturna di un possibile amante. 
“Uscire di casa, dopo una giornata di lavoro e di impegni sociali”, inoltre, come 
egli stesso afferma, comporta un certo rischio (41). 

E il rischio, come sostiene Vattimo, rappresenta un aspetto fondamentale 
del pensiero mortale, termine con cui si intende quel pensiero che “in quanto 





non si opponesse pit ad un mondo esterno ma cercasse di digerire lo spazio nel proprio 
aspetto. Si vedano rispettivamente: Medeiros 21; Baudrillard 27. 


350 Laura Rorato 


mortale, risponde allo Zuspruch di un dare che, nell’atto di dare, si ritrae, e con 
il quale pud mettersi in rapporto solo mediante un risalimento in infinitum” 
(Vattimo 140). Questo “risalimento all’infinito”, sempre secondo Vattimo, 
“sospende la perentoria serieta del tessuto-testo dell’esistenza e svela il 
continuum storico come segnato, da ultimo, da una discontinuita” (Avventure 
140) e “sospendendo la perentorieta e cogenza dei contesti in cui l’esistenza 
storica é di volta in volta gettata, libera l’esserci per altri contesti” e lo pone “in 
condizione, esso stesso di sospensione” (Avventure 141). Fabre, tuttavia, 
fondamentalmente teme ogni incertezza, per cui preferisce percepire la propria 
solitudine come “una specie di malattia, una malattia che fa parte del corpo, 
della natura di un uomo” (41). Come Balsi, Fabre non ama le imprevedibilita 
della vita ed é per questo che si abbandona a un male che diviene, come egli 
stesso afferma, “fisiologia” (41), in quanto unico strumento in grado di creare 
un’illusione di ordine nel caos della vita: 


La sua esistenza non avrebbe pil potuto tollerare |’intrusione permanente, sia pure 
gratificante, di un altro individuo: provare a modificarla avrebbe significato distruggerla. 


(41) 


L’esilio diventa quindi “una sorta di prigione liberatoria” in cui ogni giorno é 
uguale all’altro e il tempo sembra correre in fretta, senza concedere neppure un 
attimo per pensare, e dove tutto appare “ordinato e classificato” (43). 

Infine, altro personaggio essenziale per capire il significato dell’esilio 
nell’opera di Mario Fortunato é il fotografo americano David Pradine. Di madre 
ebrea, aveva avuto un’infanzia difficile perché il padre non lo accettava e viveva 
nel mito dei figli dei vicini, “ragazzi molto sportivi, molto estroversi, che 
cambiavano fidanzata ad ogni ballo della scuola” (56). David, invece, fin da 
bambino aveva scoperto di essere omosessuale, parola che “con quel suo tono 
scientifico, asettico, faceva pensare di essere parecchio malati e di doversi 
rivolgere a un medico” (57). David, in realta, si sentiva bene e per molto tempo 
era vissuto nell’illusione “che tutto il mondo (cioé Long Island) fosse un posto 
esaltante” (57). Il primo vero impatto con l’esilio si verifica con la perdita di 
Bill, ’'amico di cui si era invaghito da ragazzino e che improvvisamente, un 
giorno, si trasferisce in Illinois con la famiglia, e che non rivedra mai piu. Per un 
certo periodo della propria vita, David aveva desiderato di diventare scrittore e, 
per paura di non sapersi esprimere adeguatamente, aveva collezionato le parole 
dei filosofi o degli scrittori che pit’ lo colpivano (178). Resosi conto, dopo la 
lettura di Musil, che scrivere doveva corrispondere “all’incirca a un’uscita da sé, 
a un andare oltre verso la propria fine” (59) aveva abbandonato le proprie 
velleita letterarie ed era passato alla fotografia la cui essenza “era pil’ ambigua 
di quella dello scrivere” (60). Nonostante il rapido successo, David aveva 
faticato a trovare una sua lingua autentica perché, come suggeriscono le parole 
di Roland Barthes, da lui stesso citate, avrebbe dovuto penetrare maggiormente 


L’arte di perdere peso di M. Fortunato, owvero il paradigma dell’esilio 351 


dentro di sé per trovare “l’evidenza della fotografia” (65). Come gli rimprovera 
spesso Oku, il tecnico delle luci giapponese, invece, parole e immagini avevano 
per lui una “funzione anestetizzante” e rivelavano la sua paura di confrontarsi 
col vuoto (64). Ironicamente, sara la malattia che aiutera David a trascendere i 
limiti del proprio io e a fargli vedere nella morte, come sostiene Vattimo, una 
funzione possibilizzante dell’essere (Avventure 138), spingendolo ad accettare 
anche gli aspetti pid crudeli del proprio destino quali la cecita, condizione 
particolarmente disastrosa per un fotografo. Sebbene non venga mai 
esplicitamente detto, si pud dedurre che Pradine sia affetto da AIDS, la “meta- 
malattia” specchio di tutte le incertezze postmoderne (///ness & Culture 59). 
Come sostiene Allison Fraiberg, inoltre, il discorso sull’AIDS pud essere 
visto come l’espressione della fase evolutiva del tradizionale superamento, o 
meglio dell’abolizione, dei confini tipico dell’epoca postmoderna. La necessita 
di isolare il corpo malato per prevenire il contagio riporta il concetto di margine 
in primo piano per enfatizzare, perd, il potere sovversivo di cid che é contenuto 
in esso. L’insistenza sulle regole del safe sex fa si che, proprio perché i confini 
sono illusori (o artificiali), il corpo riaffiori come entita distinta. Sempre 
secondo la Fraiberg, il riaffiorare del corpo diventa il meccanismo grazie a cui 
l’agente pud essere costituito: dentro o fuori dalla zona offuscata dalla 
scomparsa dei confini pud trovarsi un agente risuscitato pronto ad agire, pronto 
a sowertire i tradizionali luoghi dell’autorita (Fraiberg 50-53). Diventa quindi 
comprensibile perché Pradine sia |’unico dei personaggi di Fortunato a superare 
la condizione dell’esilio e a percepire la propria morte come un autentico ritorno 
alle origini. Il suo uso del termine “accogliere” ricorda un brano di Celati in 
Verso la foce dove il vuoto viene descritto come “l’accogliente” (46), ovvero 
come cid che abbraccia ogni cosa e, quindi, da cui ogni cosa ha origine. Che 
nell’ultima fase della propria vita Pradine non tema pit il vuoto sembra 
confermato dal fatto che desidera la pioggia (148), elemento che gia per Albert 
Camus (307-10) era simbolo dell’estrema solitudine che avvolge ogni uomo, ma 
anche dell’esistenza nel mondo di un luogo di liberazione dove |’individuo, 
insieme ad un intero popolo, e per tutto il tempo che vuole, pud perdersi per 
sempre. Grazie alla malattia, Pradine riesce anche a comprendere come persino 
la gravita possa contenere leggerezza (Calvino 16) e come la leggerezza nasca 
dalla consapevolezza della “parita di tutto cid che esiste” (Calvino 18). Non 
sorprende quindi che per Pradine, come per Cavalcanti e Dante (gia citati da 
Calvino), sia la neve a diventare espressione di un mondo “costituito d’atomi 
senza peso” (Calvino 19) e a creare quell’“atmosfera di sospesa astrazione” 
(Calvino 18) che riesce finalmente a farlo sentire appagato (176), in armonia con 
la realta circostante. Si tratta di un benessere che nasce anche dall’aver 
compreso, come sostiene Magris, che “il destino di ogni uomo e della storia 
stessa, assomiglia a quello di Mosé, che non raggiunse la terra promessa ma non 
smise mai di camminare nella sua direzione” (11), perché “la salvezza non 
arriva una volta per tutte ma é sempre in cammino fino alla fine dei tempi” (13). 


352 Laura Rorato 


Utopia e disincanto sono ugualmente importanti e “anziché contrapporsi devono 
sorreggersi e correggersi a vicenda” (Magris 12); il disincanto é una forma 
ironica e malinconica della speranza di cui “ne modera il pathos profetico e 
generosamente ottimista che facilmente sottovaluta le paurose possibilita di 
regressione, di discontinuita, di tragica barbarie latenti nella storia” (Magris 14). 

Anche se in epoca postmoderna |’aspetto geografico dell’esilio ha un ruolo 
secondario, per concludere lo studio di L’arte di perdere peso, @ essenziale 
analizzare la dimensione spaziale di questa condizione esistenziale. L’evento 
principale del romanzo si svolge a Djerba, isola che gia per Foucault aveva 
assunto un valore simbolico,’ e dalla Sardegna a Creta é quasi sempre su isole 
che incontriamo i vari personaggi, anche quelli minori come la madre di Fabre o 
Lina Cuccu. Storicamente, |’isola é stata spesso luogo di esilio (basti pensare 
all’Elba e alla Sant’Elena di Napoleone) ma anche espressione di utopie, come 
la Laputa di Swift di cui parla Calvino in Lezioni americane (29). Si presta, 
quindi, ad un discorso che, come si é visto a proposito di Pradine, miri, pur nel 
disincanto della consapevolezza della perdita delle proprie origini, a sottolineare 
la speranza, insita proprio nello spirito utopico custodito nella civilta ebraica 
(Magris 14), e a fare dell’esilio un’esperienza positiva. Per Myriam e Pradine, 
tuttavia, é |l’Olanda a diventare massima espressione dell’esilio in quanto 
all’isolamento fisico, tradizionalmente associato all’isola, si aggiunge |’ ostacolo 
linguistico che rende quasi impossibile ogni forma di comunicazione con I’altro 
e, come afferma Horst Bienek, la perdita della lingua é il fattore pit decisivo nel 
determinare l’esilio (41). Si tratta inoltre di “un paese d’acqua, fittizio” (34), 
dove spesso si cammina su un polder, ovvero un terreno bonificato sotto il 
livello del mare, protetto da argini ma pur sempre precario, e dove le stesse 
condizioni atmosferiche, le infinite qualita di pioggia (29), sembrano farne il 
simbolo di quel luogo dove tutto scompare ma puo anche rinascere. Durante la 
gita a Den Oever con Margje, sua vicina di casa, Myriam afferma: “[...] 
sembrava che il mondo davanti a noi comparisse per annientarsi subito, appena 
sorpassato. Ogni cosa era lontana, lontanissima” (39). Eppure il capitolo 
dedicato al soggiorno olandese di Myriam si chiude con un’immagine di 
leggerezza: la macchina scossa dal vento che sembra alzarsi in volo e, cosi 
facendo, ricorda la figura di Cavalcanti che volteggia sopra la pietra tombale 
della novella di Boccaccio usata da Calvino (22) per esemplificare le varie 
accezioni del termine lggerezza. II volo, inoltre, € simbolo di speranza e quindi 
della possibilita di uscire dalla condizione di esilio. 

Riassumendo, é importante ricordare che, storicamente, il termine esilio si 


7 Nel 1962, Foucault aveva osservato, dopo il decollo dell’aereo su cui si trovava 
dall’aeroporto di Djerba, |’orizzonte svanire nel mare e aveva commentato che si poteva 
scommettere che anche il tradizionale concetto di uomo del diciannovesimo secolo 
sarebbe potuto svanire come un volto fatto di sabbia sul bagnasciuga per lasciar posto alla 
creazione di una futura immagine. Si veda a questo proposito (Dits et écrits). 





L’arte di perdere peso di M. Fortunato, ovvero il paradigma dell’esilio 353 


opponeva a quello di origine e si trattava di un fenomeno che per I’individuo 
aveva sia risvolti fisici che psicologici. Allontanato dal proprio ambiente 
familiare, o dalla propria citta, per motivi politici o religiosi, e costretto a 
stabilirsi in una terra straniera, l’esiliato soffriva a causa della distanza che lo 
separava dalla propria casa e, al senso di non-appartenenza nei confronti del 
nuovo mondo in cui era costretto a vivere, si aggiungeva un indebolimento della 
propria identita. In epoca postmoderna, con la progressiva perdita di fiducia 
nella storia e in qualsiasi forma di narrazione universale capace di risalire 
inequivocabilmente alle origini di un evento, e alla sempre maggiore 
frammentazione dell’identita, € come se al termine esilio venisse meno il 
referente origine. L’esilio, quindi, si trasforma in una condizione esistenziale 
permanente. Resta il vago disagio della perdita di un qualcosa che non pud 
essere conosciuto e a cui non si potra risalire, a meno che non si sia pronti a 
vedere nella propria morte un ritorno alle origini, inteso come un ritorno alla 
sfera della potenzialita. In questa condizione tipica dell’uomo contemporaneo, 
tuttavia, si verifica una frattura fra dimensione fisica e psicologia simile a quella 
della classica nozione di esilio. Essendo perd venuto meno il punto di 
riferimento che determinava e dava significato all’esilio, questa lacerazione pud 
solo awvenire all’interno dell’individuo: corpo e mente diventano i nuovi poli di 
questa dicotomia. Ma se il corpo é il luogo dell’esilio, é anche la nostra unica 
possibile “casa”. Ecco quindi spiegata l’attenzione maniacale per il proprio 
corpo di molti personaggi di questo romanzo che cercano, focalizzandosi sulla 
propria fisiologia, di ricreare quel senso di ordine nel caos della vita che é tipico 
del sentirsi a casa. L’io e l’altro in questa condizione coincidono ed é anche per 
questo che si insiste sull’importanza di conoscere se stessi o di scavare dentro di 
sé, come dice Pradine, per trascendere la condizione dell’esilio trasformandola 
in una funzione possibilizzante dell’essere. Come dimostrano gli studi di 
Dainotto e Magris, cid che importa é il processo, non il prodotto finale: é 
essenziale procedere nella direzione della terra promessa pur sapendo che il 
raggiungimento della meta verra differito fino alla fine dei tempi. Trascendere la 
condizione dell’esilio significa accettare la precarieta e la mortalita di tutte le 
cose, imparare a guardare il mondo da prospettive diverse, ovvero, come insegna 
Calvino, apprendere |’arte di perdere peso. 


University of Wales Bangor 


Opere citate 


Altogether Elsewhere. Writers on Exile, ac. di Marc Robinson, London, Faber & Faber, 
1994, 
Augé Mark, Non-places. Introduction to an Anthropology of Supermodernity, 


354 Laura Rorato 


London, Verso, 1995. 

Baudrillard Jean, Fatal Strategies, New York, Semiotexte, 1990. 

Bienek Horst, Exile is Rebellion, in Literature in Exile 41-48. 

Boym Sveltana, Estrangement as a Lifestyle: Shklovsky and Brodsky, in Exile and 
Creativity 241-62. 

Brooke-Rose Christine, Exsul, in Exile and Creativity 9-24. 

Calvino Italo, Lezioni americane. Sei proposte per il prossimo millennio, Milano, 
Mondadori, 1993. 

Camus Albert, The Rains of New York, in Altogether Elsewhere. Writers on Exile 307-10. 

Celati Gianni, Finzioni Occidentali, Torino, Einaudi, 1986. 

, Introduzione, in Herman Melville, Bartleby lo scrivano Vii-xxvi. 
, Verso la foce, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1992. 

Dainotto Roberto Maria, The Excremental Sublime: The Postmodern Literature of 
Blockage and Release, in Essays in Postmodern Culture 133-72. 

Disorderly Eaters. Texts in Self-Empowerment, ac. di Lilian R. Furst & Peter W. 
Graham, Pennsylvania, The Pennsylvania State UP, 1992. 

Essays in Postmodern Culture, a c. di Eyal Amiran and John Unsworth, New York, 
Oxford U P, 1993. 

Exile and Creativity, ac. di Susan Rubin Suleiman, Durham, Duke U P, 1998. 

Fortunato Mario, L ‘arte di perdere peso, Torino, Einaudi, 1997. 

Foucault Michael, Dits et écrits, vol. 1, a c. di Daniel Defert & Francoise Ewald, Paris, 
Gallimard, 1994. 

Fraiberg Allison, Of AJDS, Cyborgs, and Other Indiscretions: Resurfacing the Body in 
the Postmodern, in Essays in Postmodern Culture 37-67. 

Gass William, The Philosophical Significance of Exile, in Literature in Exile 1-7. 

Kalakowski Leszek, Jn Praise of Exile, in Altogether Elsewhere. Writers on Exile 188-92. 

Literature in Exile, ac. di John Glad, Durham, Duke UP, 1990. 

Magris Claudio, Utopia e disincanto, Milano, Garzanti, 2001. 

Medeiros Paulo, Cannibalism and Starvation: The Parameters of Eating Disorders in 
Literature, in Disorderly Eaters 11-27. 

Melville Herman, Bartleby lo scrivano, trad. di Gianni Celati, Milano, Feltrinelli, 1996. 

Milosz Czeslaw, Notes on Exile, in Altogether Elsewhere. Writers on Exile 36-49. 

Morris David B., ///ness and Culture in the Postmodern Age, Berkeley, U of California P, 
1998. 

Neubauer John, Bakhtin versus Lukacs: Inscriptions of Homelessness in Theories of the 
Novel, in Exile and Creativity 263-80. 

Patella Giuseppe, Sul postmoderno. Per un postmoderno della resistenza, Roma, Edizioni 
Studium, 1990. 

Pavel Thomas, Exile as Romance and as Tragedy, in Exile and Creativity 25-36. 

Sartre Jean-Paul, Being and Nothingness, London, Routledge, 1969. 

Shammas Anton, Exile from a Democracy, in Literature in Exile 84-99. 

Van Rossum Walter, Quando i destini si incrociano, appendice, in Mario Fortunato, 
L’arte di perdere peso 212-15. 

Vattimo Gianni, Le avventure della differenza, Milano, Garzanti, 1980. 

Yudice George, Feeding the Transcendent Body, in Essays in Postmodern Culture 13-36. 


Sabina Gola 


Grammatica o “Nuova grammatica” dell’ esilio 


L’esiglio, la poverta si sono sempre lo stesso, ma non abbiam riposto una parte della 
nostra felicita nei progressi della liberta, nell’avvenire dell’Italia? e questo avvenire 
non é pili sereno dal 1823 in poi? Abbiam dietro le spalle nove anni di patimenti, 
tanti anni scontati sulla somma che ci é destinata. Gli abbiam sostenuti con energia e 
dignita, invece d’esser abbattuti dall’avversita, ne siamo esciti migliori e purissimi. 
E ci diremo tanto miseri? Anche in patria v’é la stoffa di cui si formano le disgrazie, 
ma meschine, avvilenti, rovine di famiglia, discordia, matrimoni infelici, le nostre 
sciagure le abbiamo sortite splendide, solenni, utili, storiche anche se vuole, giacché 
la vanita vuole ovunque aver la sua parte 

(Costanza Arconati Visconti, Parigi, 27 febbraio 1830, in Van Nuffel 20) 


Esilio. Dolore. Sofferenza. Privazione. Memoria. Ricostruzione. Rinascita. 
Separazione. Estraneita. E molti altri ancora sono gli stati d’animo e le situazioni 
in relazione all’esilio e che con esso si confondono; altre le condizioni umane 
che ne richiamano i contenuti.' 

Che definizione dare dell’esilio? Tralasciando per un momento il significato 
propriamente giuridico della pena e  considerandone l’effetto, cioé 
l’allontanamento, dal punto di vista etico e psicologico, |’esilio cos’é? Punizione 
o decisione personale? Dolore o liberazione? Disgrazia o motivo di 
purificazione? E come definire |’esule? Un mutilato o un privilegiato dalla 
sorte? E ancora: a cosa porta l’esilio? A Dio? A comprendere il valore autentico 
delle cose e a dar loro il giusto peso? Alla morte? 

Studiosi di varie discipline si occupano di letterature dell’esilio (Marges et 
exils. L’Europe des littératures déplacées). C’é chi tenta una classificazione — 
esilio forzato, volontario o metaforico.? Un compito arduo: in fondo I’esilio é 
strettamente legato all’esule ed esistono tanti e diversi tipi di esilio quanti sono 
gli esuli. 

Claude Drevet, nel suo saggio su “L’exil intérieur’, esprime fin dalle prime 
righe l’impossibilita di definire oggettivamente l’esilio e di partire quindi dal 
concetto di “déplacement d’un corps vivant” tout court (L’Exil 211-26). Un 
movimento che parte da una supposta terra d’origine diretto verso una terra di 


' Per es., fuga, schiavismo, proscrizione, migrazione, esodo: si veda Buttino 5-324. 

? Exil et Littérature. Il volumetto raccoglie i saggi di vari ricercatori sul tema “Viaggio e 
esilio”. 

Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


356 Sabina Gola 


adozione, che pud diventare per |’esule una nuova patria. 

Non un cambiamento di luogo, ma una fuga da se stessi, nel caso particolare 
dell’esilio interiore. La vita prende la forma di un anello che interrompe 
qualsiasi rapporto con |’esterno e dentro di esso si fortifica: 


L’homme de la modernité, quand il n’est pas schizophréne, est volontiers schizoide; 
incommunicabilité, solitude, ennui, morosité, dégoit, ces maitres mots de sa détresse 
subie et acceptée résument son expérience [...]. L’exil intérieur devient la condition de 
chacun; les relations fantasmatiques l’emportent sur les relations réelles; l’espace 
intérieur sur l’espace extérieur; |’imaginaire individuel sur le social et le collectif. 

Absents du monde, nous vivons dans une réverie ininterrompue ot les étres et les 
choses acquiérent une dimension qu’ils ont perdue dans la réalité; le dialogue ne s’engage 
plus avec autrui dans son étre physique, matériel, mais avec autrui tel que le désir le 
modéle, le construit dans nos fantasmes. 

(Jaccard 99) 


Questo movimento fisico 0 morale che sia, in ogni caso, sta alla base di 
mutamenti. 

L’esule muta, cosi come la terra che ha lasciato e la terra che lo accoglie. 
Viene quindi da chiedersi se un uomo puo adattarsi a vivere in un luogo diverso 
da quello in cui é natoe ritagliarsi una nuova posizione sociale. La patria ha 
certamente una componente fisica, l’idea di appartenenza a un territorio ben 
definito, e una componente spirituale, l’idea di appartenenza a una cultura. La 
lingua madre, le tradizioni, gli usi e costumi, i rapporti umani in un determinato 
luogo con persone conosciute, ne sono gli elementi costitutivi. 

Quando si parte si parte per sempre e il ritorno, se avviene, é il ritorno di un 
individuo diverso in una terra diversa. Immutate nel ricordo e nel sentimento 
rimangono invece le persone lasciate, creando cosi l’illusione dell’immutato e 
dell’immutabile. La speranza del ritorno, del ritrovamento dei sentimenti, delle 
parole, del passato diventa malattia nel momento in cui la vita trascorre 
all’inseguimento di un ritorno. D’altro canto, invece, la terra d’adozione pud 
anche diventare spazio vitale e creativo, fattore di rinascita morale e spirituale 
(Niderst 9-17). 

I motivi e i modi di vivere l’esilio sono molteplici. Le parole scritte degli 
esuli — poesie, romanzi, diari, lettere, discorsi — testimoniano di pagine 
importanti della storia umana, alcune delle quali sono entrate a far parte della 
nostra memoria collettiva, e illustrano forme di esilio varie e differenziate, 
difficili certamente da inventariare tutte. Alle quali inoltre si devono aggiungere 
le parole di chi, seppur nell’ombra, ha scritto o raccontato. 

Alla letteratura dell’esilio si affianca la letteratura sull’esilio. Anch’essa ci 
propone varie immagini dell’esilio: fantastica, romantica, simbolica e 
metaforica. 


Grammatica o “ Nuova grammatica” dell’esilio 357 


Diego Marani,° l’autore di Nuova grammatica finlandese, di cui parleremo 
in questo saggio, figura tra gli “esuli per scelta”, lontano dalla propria patria 
d’origine (I’Italia) per ragioni professionali. Nel suo romanzo, |’esilio appare 
sotto diverse forme e incarnato da personaggi diversi, travolti dalla tempesta 
della guerra, alla ricerca disperata di un approdo per poter cominciare una nuova 
vita. La guerra é una situazione di esilio. Essa apporta trasformazioni ai rapporti 
umani e ai rapporti sociali e causa anche fenomeni di spostamento in risposta ai 
cambiamenti nella societa. La guerra, relazione tra Stato e Stato e non tra uomo 
e€ uomo (Rousseau), sconvolge |’ordine sociale e il sistema di scambi umani e 
sociali che vi sottosta. I cittadini divengono soldati e in quanto tali entrano a far 
parte del nuovo ordine stabilito, i rapporti umani e sociali tra di essi divengono 
impersonali e disconnessi e vano é il tentativo di ritrovare la propria umanita 
nell’ambito della realta, nella quale non esiste alcuna protezione all’alienazione, 
alla frustrazione, all’angoscia, al suicidio, alla malattia mentale. 

Sullo sfondo gli orrori della guerra civile finlandese.* In primo piano la 
tragedia dell’Europa sconvolta dalla Seconda Guerra Mondiale. Due uomini 
legati dallo stesso amaro destino dell’esilio: Petri Friari, cittadino tedesco di 
origine finlandese, costretto a fuggire dalla terra natale per le simpatie del padre 
alla causa bolscevica durante la guerra civile,” e un giovane di origini ignote, 
brutalmente annientato e privato di parola e di memoria dalla violenza della 
guerra. Ferito gravemente alla testa e abbandonato alla stazione ferroviaria di 
Trieste, il giovane viene trasportato da alcuni soldati tedeschi sulla nave 
ospedale tedesca Tiibingen ancorata al largo del porto di quella stessa citta, sulla 
quale fa servizio il medico neurologo Petri Friari. 

La scritta del nome finlandese Sampo Karjalainen cucita all’interno del 
collo della casacca da marinaio che portava indosso e le iniziali S. K. sul 
fazzoletto convincono i] medico che si tratti di un soldato finlandese. “La 
supposizione che, come lui, anch’io fossi un finlandese, finito per chissa quale 
motivo in quei mari cosi lontani, lo spinsero a riservarmi cure che in tempo di 
guerra é difficile dare a un ferito” (Nuova grammatica finlandese 29), scrive il 
giovane S. K. nelle prime pagine del suo diario. 


3 Diego Marani (1959) é ferrarese. Lavora come traduttore principale e revisore presso il 
Consiglio dei Ministri dell’Unione europea a Bruxelles. Conosciuto anche come 
inventore dell’europanto, sapiente miscuglio di lingue europee, con il quale ha scritto e 
scrive tutt’ora su giornali belgi e svizzeri. Ha gia pubblicato due romanzi, Caprice des 
dieux (Il Minotauro, Milano, 1995) e Zanzare (Il Minotauro, Milano, 1996). 

* La guerra civile finlandese tra “Bianchi” e “Rossi”, breve ma sanguinosa, scoppid nel 
1917 in concomitanza con la proclamazione dell’indipendenza della Finlandia dalla 
Russia (Fournier). 

° Petri Friari era fuggito in Germania con la madre, che era di origine tedesca, presso dei 
lontani parenti. Aveva studiato medicina all’ Universita di Amburgo e a causa della guerra 
era stato obbligato ad arruolarsi nell’esercito tedesco come medico sulla nave ospedale 
tedesca Tiibingen. 


358 Sabina Gola 


I] dottor Friari riesce per miracolo a tenere in vita il giovane e si fa artefice 
della sua rinascita: 


Considerava la mia guarigione e il mio recupero una vittoria personale, una grande 
impresa della scienza. Ma soprattutto lo commuoveva il salvataggio di una lingua che a 
modo suo anche lui aveva salvato in sé, traghettandola dall’esilio nei mari della memoria 
[...]. Sentiva di condividere con me un’astratta appartenenza allo stesso mondo. Un 
oscuro legame ci univa, un vincolo che non passava per il sangue, ma vibrava nel suono 
della lingua. Nell’animo del dottore risvegliava la dolcezza del ricordo e in me teneva 
desta la volonta di vivere. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 27-28) 


Su consiglio del neurologo, il giovane parte per la Finlandia alla riscoperta e 
alla riconquista della sua vecchia identita . I] disagio, l’impossibilita di creare un 
qualsiasi legame affettivo in quella che é supposta essere la sua terra natia — 
solo un cappellano militare (Olof Koskela) si prende cura di S. K. fin dal suo 
arrivo a Helsinki e solo con lui il giovane instaurera una relazione di amicizia — 
la ricerca ossessiva di un’identita, lo portano a rinchiudersi in se stesso, a 
estranearsi completamente dalla realta circostante e a rifugiarsi in una realta 
animata da personaggi mitologici e da fantasmi di un passato che non gli 
appartiene. 

Una nave gii rida la vita, un’altra gliela toglie. Nel porto di Helsinki, 
vedendo passare la cannoniera Sampo Karjalainen, il giovane si rende conto che 
il nome ricamato sulla divisa non era il suo, ma quello della nave tedesca da 
poco ceduta alla Finlandia e che, quindi, lui probabilmente non era neppure 
finlandese. Scegliera cosi di morire in battaglia da soldato finlandese con una 
patria e con un nome. 

Al dottor Friari, che ha scoperto troppo tardi la vera identita del giovane, é 
negato per sempre il ritorno nella sua cara Finlandia, oppresso dal rimorso di 
aver cambiato il destino di un uomo e di averne provocato |’annientamento: 


A volte il destino ci fa strumento dei suoi disegni, ci fa complici della sua ferocia senza 
che ce ne rendiamo conto. Come quest’uomo sono anch’io un esule. Ma mentre lui 
nutriva per questo paese affetto e riconoscenza, io con Ja Finlandia ho un conto in 
sospeso. In tutti questi anni, ho cercato di soffocare |’odio per chi uccise mio padre. 
Resistendo al richiamo della vendetta, mi sono invece accanito a tenere vivo il ricordo 
della terra che é pur sempre la mia patria, ho conservato e coltivato la mia lingua, facendo 
di ogni parola una preghiera con cui sognavo di chiedere il perdono per mio padre e per 
me la possibilita del ritorno. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 11) 


L’autore del romanzo si appoggia alla tradizione del manoscritto ritrovato per 
rendere pill reale una storia che ha dell’incredibile, nello stile dei romanzi 


Grammatica o “ Nuova grammatica” dell’esilio 359 


kafkiani. Il romanzo si presenta sottoforma di diario: il diario del giovane S. K.° 
ritrovato e completato da Petri Friari dopo la fine della guerra. 

Per entrambi, scrivere é ragione di esistenza. I] giovane scrive nel tentativo 
di riappropriarsi della propria identita originale; Friari, colmando le lacune 
lasciate da S. K., ricostruisce la propria storia e la propria identita. L’alternanza 
equilibrata delle parole scritte dall’uno e dall’altro accentua |’interpenetrazione 
spirituale dei due individui, ma non |’esatta sovrapposizione. 

Entrambi sono profondamente soli, incapaci di vivere nella societa che li 
circonda, alla ricerca della propria identita che |’esilio ha cancellato. Friari vive 
lontano dalla societa civile, asfissiato ogni giorno di pit dall’odore pestifero 
della morte che esce dai corpi dei soldati feriti nelle battaglie e con la mente 
rivolta al passato. S. K. crolla sotto il peso della liberta concessagli dal destino 
di crearsi una nuova vita. Impara nomi e frasi in finnico e li ripete finché non se 
li ricorda bene, cerca rassicurazioni, familiarita e stabilita intorno a sé senza perd 
trovarle. La sua grammatica personale non lo aiuta a trovare nuove regole di 
Vita. 

Due uomini, entrambi vittime della guerra. L’uno perfettamente 
consapevole della propria situazione di esule, dilaniato dal senso di colpa 
dell’essere fuggito dal suo paese natale, assolutamente incapace di crearsi una 
nuova vita nel paese di adozione. Una profonda solitudine lo attanaglia — non la 
solitudine che allontana dalla perversita del mondo, ma quella che conduce 
all’alienazione — che egli rompe volentieri solo quando ha la possibilita di 
parlare la propria lingua. I] peso della memoria é tale che gli impedisce di 
vivere. L,’altro, annientato fisicamente e spiritualmente, vive l’esilio in due modi 
diversi: prima di tutto l’esilio come annullamento fisico a causa della violenza 
della guerra, poi l’esilio geografico che, nelle sue nuove vesti di marinaio 
finlandese, lo condurra alla fine della sua breve esistenza. Anch’egli é solo e 
incapace di guardare verso il futuro e di creare un legame affettivo con il suo 
supposto paese d’origine. La sua memoria é vuota e talmente leggera che 
qualsiasi tentativo di riempirla fallisce miseramente, ma nello stesso tempo cosi 
pesante é la sua mancanza da indurre il giovane a guardare sempre all’indietro a 
privilegiare la conoscenza del passato e della sua identita d’ origine. 

Tra i due si instaura inizialmente il rapporto medico-ammalato. Un medico 
non soltanto curatore, ma anche creatore, quasi alla maniera di Victor 
Frankenstein (Ponnau 43-52). Il dottore riempie e modella una “scatola vuota” 
senza passato, senza nome e senza lingua, prigioniera di una divisa. L’individuo 
che esce dall’ospedale non é pit quello che vi era entrato; in realta é un 
individuo nuovo, artificiale, con una nuova identita. 

Tra di loro si crea fin dall’inizio un’incomprensione totale dovuta non 
soltanto all’handicap fisico del soldato, ma anche al tentativo incosciente del 


° Abbiamo scelto di riferirci al giovane soltanto con le iniziali S. K. per insistere 
sull’importanza del problema identitario che domina in questo romanzo. 


360 Sabina Gola 


dottore di trovare un compatriota che gli dia sollievo per le sue colpe e che, in 
qualche modo, lo aiuti a uscire dall’isolamento spirituale in cui si trova. 

Il rapporto tra i due ben presto si inverte. Friari affida il recupero della 
propria identita al giovane “rinato”, cercando di rendere vivo il suo universo 
immaginario, che altro non é che il suo ritorno in Finlandia, senza pero stabilirne 
regole ferree sull’esempio di quelle che regolano la realta. Anche quando tra i 
due puo instaurarsi una comunicazione linguistica e non soltanto gestuale, 
Pincomunicabilita regna sovrana nel loro rapporto. La supposta comunanza di 
lingua e cultura in realta li allontana ancor di piu e aiuta il soldato, incapace di 
stabilire un rapporto sereno con se stesso, ad acquisire la consapevolezza 
dell’impossibilita per lui di vivere in cid che lui considera fittizio. La ricerca 
della propria identita ha per S. K. un’importanza fondamentale, vitale, tanto che 
la scoperta della verita lo annienta. Per lui che non é riuscito a crearsi una nuova 
vita, a ricominciare dal nulla, per lui che in fondo avrebbe avuto la possibilita di 
ricostruirsi liberamente, |’assenza della memoria gli impedisce di rivivere quello 
che aveva gia vissuto o di vivere cid che avrebbe potuto crearsi da sé. 

La prima parte del romanzo é costruita intorno alla metafora della 
“rinascita”. I] dottore restituisce al proprio ammalato non soltanto la vita, ma 
anche un’identita, una cultura e una lingua. La pancia della nave ospita il soldato 
come un bimbo nel grembo materno. II mare funge da liquido amniotico. Un 
momento ben preciso simboleggia la sua venuta alla luce: la prima passeggiata 
sul ponte all’uscita dal coma. Un senso di smarrimento pervade il giovane fin 
dal primo momento.’ 

Col passare dei giorni il rapporto medico-ammalato si trasforma in un 
rapporto protettivo di un padre per un figlio mai avuto. Come un padre, Friari 
insegna al giovane a parlare il finnico, gli racconta la storia della propria vita 
come se fosse una favola, solo un movimento sulla carta geografica, nel quale S. 
K. percepisce gia una profonda drammaticita nonostante |’incomprensione quasi 
totale della lingua. Come un padre parla al proprio figlio adolescente, prima 
della partenza di S. K. per la Finlandia, il dottore si sente in dovere di dargli dei 
consigli sul come affrontare la vita futura. Forse questo é il momento pili sereno 
del romanzo per entrambi: S. K. é convinto di ritornare in patria e li di iniziare a 
colmare il suo passato, a ricostruire la sua memoria; Friari invece si insinua nel 
corpo vuoto del soldato privo di memoria e di passato e sente di tornare in patria 
attraverso di lui, di creare finalmente un legame “puro” con la propria terra 
natale in sostituzione di quelli che si erano gia spezzati (l’amore per una giovane 
donna rimasta laggit) o che non aveva mai interiorizzato |’assistenza e le cure ai 
marinai finlandesi del quartiere finlandese di Amburgo con i quali l’unico 


7 “Si guarda nello specchio, come si era guardato Vitangelo Moscarda, e li si chiude il 
suo cammino verso l’altro, cioé se stesso, e gli altri, e si delinea il suo destino 
impossibile. Per tutta la sua vita non smettera mai di guardarsi nello specchio nel 
tentativo di trovare li tutti i valori della vita umana” (Gola 204). 


Grammatica o “ Nuova grammatica” dell’esilio 361 


piacere era di parlare la propria lingua, piacere che in qualche modo reggeva il 
suo sentimento di solidarieta per i compatrioti: 


L’immagine della nave attraccata al molo, la bandiera finlandese issata in cima all’albero 
e i marinai schierati a prua, mi hanno ricordato i marinai finlandesi che arrivavano al 
porto di Amburgo. Per me ognuno era un pezzo di Finlandia. II loro arrivo era un 
appuntamento che aveva finito per scandire le date del mio calendario, |’alternarsi delle 
stagioni. [...] Andavo incontro ai marinai che ogni sera si radunavano presso la chiesa 
finlandese, come se fossero tutti miei parenti. Di tutti volevo stringere la mano [...]. 
Assisterli quando avevano bisogno delle mie cure, mi alleggeriva il cuore. Alleviando le 
loro febbri, mi sembrava di contribuire al benessere del mio paese, di riscattare colpe che 
pure non avevo e di guadagnarmi la possibilita del ritorno. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 121-22) 


I due personaggi seduti l’uno accanto all’altro, entrambi immersi 
nell’immensita dell’elemento equoreo che sta di fronte a loro, unico testimone 
della loro tragedia, si sentono in realta l’uno nell’altro. 

Il dottor Friari, con “il viso rivolto al sole”, si rivolge al giovane pensoso 
che invece ha lo sguardo rivolto al precipizio sul mare. In realta, il dottore parla 
a se stesso: 


Deve tornare nei luoghi del suo passato. Solo 1a pud sperare di trovare qualcosa che 
risvegli la sua memoria. A volte basta un odore, una luce, un rumore che ha sentito mille 
volte senza accorgersene e che d’improvviso puo scatenare il ricordo [...]. Si metta a 
imparare la sua lingua [...]. Dovra studiarla la sua lingua, ma non solo. II finlandese é la 
lingua in cui é stato allevato, la lingua della ninnananna, che ogni sera la faceva 
addormentare. Dovra amarla oltre che studiarla [...]. Siccome la lingua é madre, si cerchi 
una donna. Dalla donna veniamo in questo mondo, dalla madre impariamo a parlare. Si 
innamori, si abbandoni. Spenga il cervello e lasci andare il cuore. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 35-36) 


La partenza per la Finlandia decreta, per il giovane, oltre all’inizio di un 
esilio “inconsapevole”, data la convinzione di tornare nel supposto paese natale, 
l’inizio di un esilio interiore che lo porta a vivere lontano dalla societa degli 
uomini, nell’incomunicabilita fisica e spirituale, nella solitudine, nella noia e nel 
disgusto per un mondo al quale non sente di appartenere. Privo della protezione 
della memoria, col passare del tempo, si accentua sempre piu il sentimento di 
essere per sempre un esule in terra. 

Da questo momento, per S. K., comincia il lento declino verso 
l’autodistruzione e la morte. Tre anni di morte spirituale (1943-1946). Solo il 
bollettino di guerra con l’annuncio della morte di un soldato di nome Sampo 
Karjalainen legittimera la sua esistenza precedente. 

Anche Olof Koskela, altro personaggio chiave di Nuova grammatica 
finlandese, & un esule, tormentato dall’impossibilita di conciliare la sua visione 
del mondo con la realta che lo circonda. II rito quotidiano dell’incontro con il 


362 Sabina Gola 


pastore luterano rappresenta per il giovane S. K. un momento di unione, di 
autentiche relazioni umane con un/’altra persona anche se non in una realta calda 
e vibrante ma nell’immaginario di un popolo. Da un lato il Kalevala — l’epopea 
del popolo finlandese — dall’altro il koskenkorva®; da un lato la mitologia, 
dall’altro lo stordimento dell’alcol e delle droghe per evadere dalla realta 
spietata della guerra. Nei suoi viaggi nell’aldila il pastore porta anche il giovane 
S. K. , nel tentativo di risuscitare in lui la memoria ancestrale del popolo 
finlandese: “Se tu sei stato un giorno finlandese, tutto questo prima o poi lo 
ritroverai dentro di te, perché questa roba non sta nella memoria, non pud andare 
smarrita. Sta nel sangue, nelle viscere” (Nuova Grammatica Finlandese 60). “Le 
forme di una lingua si ripercuotono inevitabilmente su chi la parla, ne plasmano 
il volto, le case, la terra, le abitudini, il cibo. Uno straniero che impara il 
finlandese forza i propri tratti somatici, si allontana da sé, corre il rischio di non 
riconoscersi pit” (Nuova Grammatica Finlandese 59), spiega al suo apprendista 
finlandese il pastore Koskela. 

Tra gli elementi dell’esilio, l’autore sceglie di dare un rilievo particolare alla 
parola e alla lingua, in quanto insieme di parole, patrimonio dell’individuo e di 
un popolo, elemento di socializzazione (Strauss 115-26). “La parola giusta. E 
tutta li la differenza fra la vita e la morte. II ricordo é inseparabile dalla parola. 
La parola trae le cose dall’ombra. Impara la parola e riavrai la memoria” (Nuova 
Grammatica Finlandese 141). 

Se, da un lato, la terra d’origine scompare ai nostri occhi e solo la lingua 
materna ci aiuta a recuperarla e il ritorno pud avvenire solo in possesso della 
lingua materna, dall’altro ci si sente esuli in una societa della quale la lingua non 
suona familiare e nella quale le comunicazioni con gli altri sono disturbate. 

La lingua scandisce la vita dei vari personaggi del romanzo: per S. K. come 
apprendista del finlandese e della finlandesitudine: “Quando potrai leggere il 
Kalevala sarai un vero finlandese, quando a sentire il ritmo dei suoi canti ti si 
accapponera la pelle, allora sarai davvero uno dei nostri” (Nuova Grammatica 
Finlandese 77); per Friari, angosciato dalla paura di perderla e di staccarsi cosi 
completamente dalla madrepatria, indotto ad appropriarsi della vita di un altro, 
al quale questa lingua non appartiene: “Non avevo mai pensato che la parola 
‘Raamattu’ (Bibbia) deriva da ‘Grammatica’ [...]. Eppure forse questo la dice 
lunga sul devoto amore per la propria lingua che distingue ogni finlandese. Per 
noi la lingua é parola di Dio, anche quando in Dio non si crede [...]” (Nuova 
Grammatica Finlandese 143); per il pastore luterano che, attraverso la lettura 
del Kalevala, primo monumento letterario della lingua finlandese, espone a S. 
K. la sua visione del mondo e della storia. 

La scelta dell’autore si evidenzia ancor piu in relazione all’incomprensione 
linguistica di fondo che regna in tutto il romanzo. La guerra impone nuove 
regole, mescola individui di nazionalita diverse, con lingue proprie e con ruoli 


* Liquore di colore biancastro molto forte. 


Grammatica o “ Nuova grammatica” dell’esilio 363 


diversi, trasforma i sentimenti di amore e di amicizia, impedisce agli individui di 
instaurare rapporti solidi e duraturi. L’assurdita della guerra si manifesta anche 
attraverso la lingua: 


L’armamentario normativo di una lingua é costruito pil per impedirne |’accesso agli 
estranei che per facilitarne la comprensione. Ogni lingua si chiude dietro il rito iniziatico 
della propria grammatica, come una setta segreta dietro le sue messe nere. Ma la lingua 
non é una religione cui si possa credere oppure no. La lingua é un fenomeno naturale ed é 
proprio di tutta l’umanita. L’ottusita degli uomini I’ha divisa in tante grammatiche e 
ognuna pretende di essere quella giusta, di essere lei lo specchio della chiarezza del 
pensiero di tutto un popolo. Cosi ogni popolo impara le regole della sua grammatica e 
s’illude con quelle di risolvere I’astruso esercizio della vita. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 144) 


S. K., al suo arrivo in Finlandia, parla a malapena il finlandese. I gesti gli 
vengono in aiuto, l’insoddisfazione perd di non poter usare le parole traspare 
dagli sguardi suoi e dei vari personaggi con cui viene in contatto. Ma la guerra é 
anche questo e bisogna accontentarsi. Gli riesce impossibile comunicare 
verbalmente con due prigionieri russi che per qualche giorno dormono nella sua 
stanzetta dell’ospedale militare e cosi anche con il giornalista tedesco con il 
quale aveva fatto conoscenza all’hotel Kamp e con il quale si salutavano e si 
frequentavano “senza parlare”’. 

Poco a poco S. K. apre la sua mente al finlandese. Nonostante questa 
apertura, domina sempre in lui una sensazione di estraneita a quella lingua e a 
quel paese. La sua conoscenza del finlandese rimane comunque insufficiente per 
esprimere i suoi sentimenti pit profondi, e contribuisce ad alzare un muro 
invalicabile di solitudine nei confronti della gente e del paese che lo avevano 
accolto: “Io e la Finlandia ci eravamo mescolati ma non confusi. Qualcosa di me 
rimaneva impermeabile a ogni mescolanza, come se nel profondo un’identita 
sepolta si rifiutasse di essere annientata e lottasse furiosamente per venire a 
galla” (Nuova grammatica finlandese 65). La guerra inoltre non facilita le 
relazioni tra individui che nel romanzo assumono le sembianze di fantasmi, di 
esseri svuotati della loro interiorita e curvi sotto il peso del dolore. 

La musica e il canto superano i limiti della lingua parlata, permettendo ai 
personaggi di fare un passo gli uni verso gli altri. I finlandese “é una lingua che 
andrebbe solo cantata” (Nuova grammatica finlandese 58), asserisce il pastore 
Koskela. 

Il canto di inni religiosi permette al giovane di cominciare ad 
“addomesticare” la lingua finlandese. Una canzonetta fischiettata dal giornalista 
tedesco, della quale S. K. conosce le parole per averla sentita tante volte nelle 
birrerie di Trieste, avvicina i due che percepiscono, anche se vagamente, di 
avere qualcosa in comune. Per un momento, il canto fa sentire S. K. parte di un 
popolo. In compagnia di Koskela, anch’egli partecipa all’azione intrapresa di 
sviare i russi e di far credere loro che Helsinki stia bruciando, mentre sono solo i 


364 Sabina Gola 


fald accatastati ai quali i finlandesi danno le fiamme. “Non ero pit solo, non ero 
pit uno straniero. Stavo tra la mia gente, lavoravo con loro per proteggere la 
nostra terra. Era un sentimento forte” (Nuova grammatica finlandese 72). La 
musica di un pianoforte lo attira all’hotel Kamp dove un coro di infermiere si 
esibiva sul palcoscenico. Anche in questa occasione riconosce alcune note di 
una canzone che aveva gia sentito e cosi si lascia andare e, senza conoscere le 
parole e muovendo solo le labbra, si unisce al pubblico che si era messo a 
cantare con le infermiere. Si sente profondamente solo perché, nonostante i 
progressi nella conoscenza del finlandese, molte parole gli rimangono ancora 
oscure. Proprio in questa occasione incontra l’infermiera che lo aveva accolto il 
primo giorno all’ospedale militare e che poi non aveva pil rivisto. Per un attimo 
il sentimento dell’amore lo sfiora. S. K. intravede uno spiraglio di salvezza alla 
sua alienazione, alla sua solitudine, alle sue visioni di morte. Una speranza che 
perO svanisce immediatamente davanti all’interrogativo martellante: ‘Chi 
sono?” 

La naturalezza del canto riesce a cancellare gli orrori della guerra, a 
spogliare ambedue del loro dolore e a farli sentire in comunione: 


Ilma rideva, mi stringeva pit forte il braccio e per quel braccio io mi sentivo aggrappato 
alla vita che mi ero deciso ad agguantare. Quante volte |’avevo guardata scorrere ai miei 
piedi senza trovare il coraggio di saltarci dentro, di sguazzarci anch’io. Ora mi lasciavo 
trascinare nel canto e lungo la strada lontano dalla solitudine lontano dal silenzio, lontano 
da me. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 96-97) 


“Cantare si dice ‘laulua’, che vuol dire anche ‘incantare’. Ma ‘cantare’ e 
‘incantare’ per gli antichi poeti finnici era la stessa cosa. Perché chi sapeva 
cantare, sapeva anche incantare con la magia della parola” (Nuova Grammatica 
Finlandese 109), spiega Koskela al suo apprendista finlandese. Le parole di 
Koskela impregnano il giovane dell’atmosfera magica della mitologia finnica 
allontanandolo dall’angosciosa realta che li circonda. 

S. K. si sente a suo agio in questo mondo magico e subito trova delle 
affinita tra la sua situazione e quella di Antero Vipunen’, lo sciamano chiuso 
fuori dal suo corpo e la cui anima vaga ancora. In fondo tutta la breve esistenza 
del giovane S. K. si realizza a cavallo tra realta e immaginazione. I] suo stato di 
alienazione é tale che ad un certo punto egli non distingue pit gli individui veri 
da quelli immaginati. Anche il mare, l’elemento naturale che lo accompagna 
passo passo e assiste al lento trascorrere della sua esistenza, si riempie di navi 
cariche di guerrieri fuoriusciti dalle pagine del Kalevala. 


* Personaggio della mitologia finnica. In un momento di estasi si allontand a tal punto dal 
suo corpo che non poté pit rientrarci e si dice che ancora oggi il suo corpo vaga attorno al 
groviglio di rovi che é divenuto il suo corpo abbandonato, nel vano tentativo di farvi 
ritorno. 


Grammatica o ‘“‘ Nuova grammatica” dell’esilio 365 


Un giorno Koskela scompare misteriosamente. La sua visione del mondo 
dominato dal male invincibile e sconvolto dal dolore gli impedisce di vivere e lo 
spinge verso |’annientamento di se stesso: 


La vita umana si accende, brucia e si estingue senza consumare un briciolo di tutto il 
dolore che si porta dentro. Al contrario, ogni uomo che nasce, ogni vita che si aggiunge 
alla vita alimenta questo animale insaziabile. Allora l’unica cosa che ci resta da fare é 
negargli il suo nutrimento. Se della nostra vita si nutre il male del male, solo senza la 
nostra vita si affamera e morira. Per questo é urgente uccidere, per questo ogni guerra é 
buona. Perché ogni morte ci avvicina alla meta. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 171) 


Dopo la partenza del pastore, che era diventato per S. K. una guida 
spirituale, anche se verso la morte e non verso la vita, il senso di estraneita e di 
profonda solitudine del giovane viene acuito pit’ che mai. Spinto 
dall’ossessionante ricerca della propria identita, S. K. rifiuta di aprirsi 
all’esperienza amorosa, richiudendosi ancor di pili nella propria solitudine. La 
lingua finlandese diventa per lui un rifugio nella speranza di trovare in essa la 
fiammella per ravvivare la sua esistenza. 

S. K. non subisce alcuna evoluzione nel corso del romanzo. L’angoscia che 
lo pervade al suo arrivo in Finlandia lo attanaglia nello stesso modo alla fine 
della sua esistenza. Non riesce a seguire i consigli del dottor Friari, non si 
abbandona alla lingua finlandese né trova ristoro nelle braccia di una donna. 
Non prima comunque di aver ritrovato la propria identita. 

S. K. perde la guerra contro se stesso, contro la propria memoria vuota. 
Inoltre, la tragica scoperta di non essere chi credeva di essere e di dover 
ricominciare da capo la costruzione della propria identita lo conduce 
all’annientamento. Solo la morte in guerra nelle vesti di un soldato finlandese 
pud ridargli la vita e pud farlo morire nella speranza di essere ricordato. 

Anche Friari perde la propria battaglia contro la sua incapacita di adattarsi a 
vivere nella realta e paghera un prezzo molto alto per aver affidato i propri 
desideri e la propria nostalgia a un altro individuo: 


Nessuno sa che fine abbia fatto l’autore di questo manoscritto, l’uomo che io volli si 
chiamasse Sampo Karjalainen [...]. Per riparare al mio disgraziato errore, per restituirgli 
se non la memoria, almeno la sua vera identita e un luogo a cui fare ritorno. Ma la guerra 
mi ha portato lontano da lui, mi ha impedito di raggiungerlo in tempo. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 199-200) 


Solo la guerra con la sua forza distruttiva e devastante puo proclamarsi vincitrice 
assoluta. 

Isolamento, desolazione, oscurita e assenza dominano in questo romanzo, 
che si inserisce perfettamente nella tradizione dei romanzi di Pirandello, Svevo, 
Bassani. Romanzo dell’assenza della memoria, della terra d’origine, della 


366 Sabina Gola 


lingua, dell’identita. S. K., non a caso, preferisce della lingua finlandese 
l’abessivo'’, la declinazione delle cose che mancano. Romanzo dell’esilio, del 
dolore dell’allontanamento, della speranza del ritorno, dell’incapacita di 
guardare a un futuro in nome di un passato troppo pesante e impregnato di valori 
fondamentali insostituibili (amore paterno, amore patrio, amore per la propria 
lingua madre e le proprie tradizioni), della paura del cambiamento in se stessi 
(nuova lingua, nuove abitudini) e in cid che ci si é lasciati alle spalle, della paura 
di non trovare un giusto equilibrio tra il passato e il presente. 

La guerra sconvolge i valori in nome dei quali generalmente gli esuli si 
legano tra di loro e si sentono piu vicini alla madrepatria (lingua, cultura, 
solidarieta tra compatrioti). Per il giovane S. K sono forieri di morte, morte 
fisica e spirituale. Cid che apparentemente é vita per Friari, per S. K. significa 
morte. Prima la memoria: “Della memoria, che |’autore di queste pagine 
infelicemente inseguiva, io ancora oggi non riesco a liberarmi. La memoria é il 
tributo di dolore che quotidianamente pago, quando mi sveglio a questo mondo 
e accetto di viverci” (Nuova grammatica finlandese 42); poi la lingua: mentre 
per Friari poter parlare la propria lingua madre lo fa sentire vivo, per S. K. 
l’apprendimento del finlandese decreta la morte; infine la solidarieta: per Friari 
non é altro che ossessione dell’idea del ritorno nella sua terra d’ origine: 


Fu certamente |’insano attaccamento che provo per il mio paese a indurmi a vedere in lui 
un finlandese. E fu il mio amor proprio che mi convinse a considerare quell’etichetta la 
prova della sua identita. Istintivamente, mi prodigai a salvare lo sconosciuto finlandese 
che la guerra mi buttava fra le braccia. Ma in realta era la mia salvezza che inseguivo. 
Come avevo fatto ad Amburgo, soccorrendo un mio compatriota, credetti ancora una 
volta di riscattare la colpa di mio padre. E stata l’ossessione di tutta la mia vita. La morte 
di mio padre, accusato di sovversione comunista e ingiustamente assassinato, ¢ diventata 
per me una colpa da espiare. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 203-04) 


Petri Friari, S. K. e Olof Koskela sono degli esuli, ciascuno a modo proprio. 
Per motivi diversi si sentono a disagio nella societa nella quale si trovano. 
Nessuno dei tre riesce a vincere la propria battaglia contro la societa o contro se 
stesso. II ritorno dall’esilio si concretizza per tutti e tre, ma a un prezzo troppo 
alto: Friari ritorna nella sua cara Finlandia, imprigionato tuttavia dal peso del 
rimorso di essersi impossessato della vita di un altro uomo per espiare le sue 
colpe; S. K,. con la sua morte da soldato finlandese, ritrova una patria, anche se 
a lui “straniera”; Koskela, morendo al fronte, sfugge al grande mostro qual é il 
dolore umano, secondo la sua visione della vita. 

Petri Friari pone fine per un momento al suo esilio fisico e spirituale, solo 
quanto basta per rendersi conto che I’amore per la sua patria e per la sua cultura 
sara per sempre un amore impossibile. L’esilio interiore non avra mai fine: 


'° Caso della lingua finlandese. 





Grammatica o “ Nuova grammatica” dell’esilio 367 


Ritornando in Finlandia dopo tutti questi anni, I’ho trovata un po’ diversa da come la 
conoscevo, ma intatta nel suo carattere e nei suoi tratti pit’ forti. Le sono andato incontro 
come a un antico amore, con il timore di rimpiangere, rivedendola, il tempo e il dolore 
spesi per lei, oppure, ancora peggio, di accorgermi che non valeva tanta pena. Invece ho 
scoperto con sollievo che di queste parole corrose dal ghiaccio e dal silenzio sono ancora 
innamorato. Che sono ancora capace di sciogliere la mia bocca dalla smorfia aspra del 
tedesco e lasciarvi sbocciare le vocali dolci e grasse della mia lingua. Una lingua 
imparata non é che una maschera, un’identita presa a prestito. La si dovrebbe avvicinare 
con il dovuto distacco e mai cedere alle lusinghe di mimetizzarsi, rinnegando i propri 
suoni per imitarne altri. Chi si abbandona a questa tentazione rischia di perdere la sua 
memoria, il suo passato, senza averne in cambio un altro. 

(Nuova grammatica finlandese 57) 


La conclusione della guerra pone fine all’esilio “geografico” di Friari e 
contribuisce a fargli capire che la sua vita non si potra mai realizzare secondo le 
regole di una nuova grammatica. II richiamo delle origini sara in lui sempre 
troppo forte. Il rimpianto per la patria prevarra su qualsiasi altro sentimento. 
L’insistenza sull’importanza del mantenimento della propria lingua madre non 
fa che sottolineare la sua incapacita pil assoluta, accompagnata anche da una 
mancanza di volonta, di aprirsi a una nuova cultura, a una nuova vita. 

S. K. ha avuto la possibilita di crearsi una nuova grammatica di vita. 
L’assenza totale delle origini gli ha pero impedito di vivere serenamente queste 
sue nuove regole di vita. 

Il romanzo di Marani propone dunque al lettore un’immagine poliedrica 
dell’esilio mettendone in luce prevalentemente l’aspetto linguistico. La 
descrizione minuta della lingua finlandese non é che un pretesto per insistere 
sulla dipendenza del comportamento umano dalla lingua e  viceversa, 
sull’importanza della lingua come fattore di socializzazione, ma anche di 
isolamento in una condizione di esilio, sulla resistenza fisica dell’uomo verso 
una lingua che non gli appartiene, creando cosi due direzioni di lettura: 
l’incomprensione linguistica come causa e effetto dell’ esilio. 


Université Libre de Bruxelles 


368 Sabina Gola 


Opere citate 


Buttino Mario, Jn fuga. Guerre, carestie e migrazioni forzate nel mondo contemporaneo, 
Napoli, L’Ancora del Mediterraneo, 2001. 

Drevet Claude, L ’exil intérieur, in L’éxil (ac. di Niderst) 211-25. 

Exil et littérature, ac. di Jacques Mounier, Grenoble, Ellug, 1986. 

Gola Sabina, Mondo reale, mondo virtuale: verita e menzogna: Penelope per gioco 
(Caterina Bonvicini) e Nuova Grammatica finlandese (Diego Marani), in 
“Narrativa” 20-21 (giugno 2001): 207-16. 

Fournier Vincent, Le voyage en Scandinavie. Anthologie de voyageurs 1627-1914, Paris, 
Robert Laffont, 2001. 

Jaccard Roland, L 'exil intérieur: schizoide et civilisation, Paris, PUF, 1975. 

Marani Diego, Nuova grammatica finlandese, Milano, Bompiani, 2000. 

Marges et exils. L’Europe des littératures déplacées, a c. di Louis Bolle, Archives du 
Futur, Bruxelles, Editions Labor, 1987. 

Niderst Alain (ac. di), L 'Exil, Paris, Klincksieck, 1996. 

, Souffrir et chérir l’exil, in L’Exil (ac. di Niderst) 9-17. 

Ponnau Gwenhael, Une image tératologique, de |’exil a l’époque romantique: le monstre 
de Frankenstein, in Exil et littérature 43-52. 

Strauss André, Des exils du langage a la langue de Ia littérature, in Exil et littérature 
115-26. 

Van Nuffel R. O. J., L’esilio di Giovanni Arrivabene e il Carteggio di Costanza Arconati 
1829-1836, proemio e introduzione biografica di Robert Van Nuffel. Presentazione 
di Emilio Fario. Istituto per la storia del Risorgimento italiano, Comité de Mantoue, 
Mantoue, 1966. 


Jennifer Burns 


Exile Within Italy: Interactions 
Between Past and Present “Homes” in Texts in Italian 
by Migrant Writers 


I will consider in this article figurations and representations of exile in novels by 
three writers who in the 1990-2000 period published texts in Italian relating to 
their migration from their countries of birth to Italy. The novels are Jmmigrato 
(1990), by Salah Methnani (Tunisian), who co-wrote his novel with Italian 
writer, Mario Fortunato; Pantanella (1992), by Mohsen Melliti (also Tunisian); 
and Va e non torna (2000), by Ron Kubati (Albanian). Clearly, I am considering 
exile in an unconventional way, in a way perhaps contrary to that in which it is 
considered in other articles in this volume. The peculiarity of the types of exile I 
am examining can be described in various ways, which will be explored in the 
course of my discussion, but, as a preliminary step, I will enumerate some of the 
salient singularities of the notion of exile in texts in Italian by immigrant 
writers.’ First is the issue of will: the writers I will concentrate on were none of 
them banished from their home country to Italy by means of a specific political 
edict; rather, they chose to emigrate. And yet the level to which this “choice” 
was suggested, encouraged, or even enforced by political, economic, and 
cultural circumstances is a complex and particularly interesting one, which I will 
discuss at greater length shortly. A second singularity in the types of exile I am 
considering is that Italy is the place to, rather than from, which the individual 
writer is exiled in these texts. Italy is the place of estrangement and exclusion, 
and the place which the reader, too, is led to read as strange, foreign, hostile, 
restrictive. Linked with this singularity, and shifting in the direction of 
specifically textual issues, is the fact that the Italian language in these texts is 
also a medium which is not only used to express estrangement, but which also in 
its very use voices an estrangement, a necessary adoption of an unfamiliar mode 
of expression. Finally, continuing in the same direction, we can identify these 
texts as a minority literature within the Italian tradition: a body of writing in part 
in exile within, or on the edges of, the Italian canon.” 


' I use the term “immigrant writers” here simply to specify that these are non-Italian 
writers who have migrated to Italy, rather than Italian migrants who have migrated to the 
U.S.A., or any other group of migrants who could be included under the broader, and less 
loaded, term, “migrant writers,” which I shall use elsewhere in this discussion. 

? The relationship between migrant writing in Italian and the Italian literary tradition has 
been discussed at length by Gnisci, particularly in // rovescio del gioco and Una storia 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


370 Jennifer Burns 


Returning first to the question of to what extent these authors are in exile, 
the Concise Oxford Dictionary defines exile as “(state of) being expelled or long 
absence from one’s native land.” Already then, the possibility is offered of a 
voluntary displacement, but the difference between voluntary and involuntary 
departure from one’s homeland is not a simple one: there are various shades of 
willingness and coercion between these two positions. The term exile in the 
contemporary context is perhaps most readily associated with artists and 
intellectuals, and has acquired historical, even romantic connotations. Edward 
Said comments on this, in his essay, “Reflections on Exile” (173-86). He 
describes some individual exiled poets and writers, and then continues: 


From them, it is apparent that, to concentrate on exile as a contemporary political 
punishment, you must therefore map territories of experience beyond those mapped by 
the literature of exile itself. You must first set aside Joyce and Nabokov and think instead 
of the uncountable masses for whom UN agencies have been created. You must think of 
the refugee-peasants with no prospect of ever returning home, armed only with a ration 
card and an agency number (175-76). 


Said describes two extremes here: individual, dead, white, male 
intellectuals, and hordes of present-day, “third-world,” displaced persons. In 
order to understand the extent to which Albanian and Tunisian writers in Italy 
are exiles, it is helpful to break down Said’s dichotomy. Individuals who, in the 
late twentieth and early twenty-first centuries, are specifically and individually 
forced to leave their home countries for political or ideological reasons are most 
readily referred to not as exiles but as asylum-seekers. The penalty for not 
emigrating is often, in their case as in traditional concepts of exile, death. Those 
who find it necessary to emigrate, probably in larger numbers, because of 
critical political, economic or environmental conditions, are likely to be termed 
refugees. The alternative for them, too, is probably death. Those who find it, if 
not necessary, at least infinitely preferable, to emigrate, because of adverse 
political and economic conditions, are normally termed economic migrants. 
Their alternative is not death but severely curtailed personal freedom, due to 
political and/or economic constraints. The writers I discuss here fall largely into 
the latter category.” 

So are they exiles? The answer must be yes, because even if they choose to 
leave their homeland, this choice is heavily weighted by circumstances. More to 
the point, however, and more interesting from the point of view of an analysis of 





diversa. 

3 Whilst the majority of italophone migrant writers are men who migrated singly, there 
are a number of texts by women migrants, whose migration is usually the result of 
marriage. Their positions both in Italy and with respect to the home country are different 
in many ways from the writers examined here, and cannot easily be accommodated 
within the scope of this analysis (see Parati). 





Exile Within Italy in Texts by Migrant Writers 371 


exile in literature, is that the ways in which they are exiles point out that exile is 
not so much about the act of being banished or removed from one’s home 
community, but about the condition of displacement. As Said rightly, I think, 
points out, exile is first and foremost “a condition of terminal loss” (173). In 
other words, whilst the initial move away from the home country may be willed 
and even longed for, prolonged absence brings with it regret, nostalgia, and the 
longing to return. Implicit in this process is a reversal: the desire to leave, once 
fulfilled, turns into the desire to return. And this is perhaps where the crucial 
difference lies between exile as conventionally perceived, particularly in 
literature, and the sort of exile experienced by the writers I shall discuss here: it 
is not so much a question of voluntary or involuntary migration — an act of will 
— as a complex operation of desire, with all the personal and collective 
illusions, deceptions, and distortions which the term suggests. This is not to say 
that conventional notions of exile exclude the operations of desire; of course, the 
condition of being exiled is dominated by the desire to regain the home territory 
and all it encompasses psychologically and emotionally. However, in the case of 
the writing I shall consider, there is a doubling and, again, a reversal of this 
desire, in the sense that the act of emigrating is itself the product of a desire for 
an elsewhere which is as yet unknown but vividly constructed in the 
imagination. And yet, as I have said, when this unknown is encountered in 
reality, the desire tends to turn back and take as its object the place of departure, 
vividly re-constructed by the operations of memory and nostalgia. 

It is precisely this interplay of desires that makes the condition of exile as 
experienced by recent migrants to Italy singular and interesting, particularly 
when reflected and explored in writing. Its effects in the text are both thematic 
and structural: the condition of exile informs and underlines both what is being 
expressed in the texts and the ways in which it is expressed. All of the texts | 
shall discuss, and many others by italophone migrant writers (see bibliography), 
are imbued with a sense of another place, and of another story attached to that 
place. The texts in part work to mediate between past and present, home and 
exile, in an attempt to determine, or at least to delineate in inchoate form, a 
future predicated upon the experience of both places. In so doing, they voice a 
displacement or disjuncture which lends them something which I am reluctant to 
describe as an essential quality, but which certainly goes some way to 
establishing a common concern and a common form, and so approaches the 
formation of a genre. As my hesitancy demonstrates, the territory of genre 
definition and canon formation, especially in the case of marginal or minority 
writing, is a minefield which I have no wish to enter. However, I think that it is 
important at this stage of the development of migrant writing in Italian to start to 
identify common movements and patterns in order to explore in a more 
informed and nuanced way the texts that are emerging, rather than treating a vast 
range of texts as a single literary phenomenon according to their lowest common 
denominator of being texts in Italian by migrants whose first language is a 


372 Jennifer Burns 


different one. To avoid the mines, however, I will now look in specific detail at 
the representations and effects of exile in the three novels I have selected. 

The interplay of past and present “homes” in these novels is governed in 
large part by the structure of each narrative. In this area, Jmmigrato, by 
Fortunato and Methnani, is clearly different from the two other novels. Any 
discussion of this novel is complicated by the fact of its co-authorship; the 
present discussion is particularly complicated by the fact that this co-authorship 
involves one author who is “exiled” in Italy and one author who is “at home” 
there. Whilst the publication details of the novel credit both authors equally, the 
authors themselves give contradictory accounts of the writing of the text; each 
more or less claims that he wrote it.* To comment on which account is correct is 
not my concern here (in any case, it would be an exercise of dubious value to 
establish where such correctness would lie). In order to discuss the figurations of 
exile in the text, it is mostly sufficient to consider the text to contain Methnani’s 
story, parenthesizing the issue of ownership of the textual version of it. He lived 
the experiences described (apart from one or two episodes which both authors 
acknowledge to be fabricated), the io narrante is presented as Methnani, he is 
the immigrato. I say mostly sufficient, because there are implications for the 
exile theme in the novel which derive from its collaborative nature, and these are 
connected with Fortunato’s own understanding and representation of exile 
around the text, if not specifically within it. Fortunato describes a strong 
identification with Methnani, based largely on two factors: his own experiences 
of travelling in North Africa, and his own experiences of growing up in the 
south of Italy. In other words, familiar to Fortunato and recognized by him, both 
in Methnani’s story and in the collaborative text of the story, are the ways in 
which an “other” place is invested with desire. The concept of exile in this novel 
cannot, therefore, be treated simply as deriving from the consciousness of the 
displaced author; it is partially overlaid with the migratory consciousness of the 
placed one. 

Both authors concur that one major contribution by Fortunato to the novel 
was its structure. The titles of the chapters of the novel constitute a simple list of 
names of eight Italian cities, which traces a loop between the opening and 
closing chapters situated in Tunisian cities, whose names in the titles are 
preceded by the preposition a, denoting a sense of placement, to contrast with 
the relentless displacement of the narrator’s life in Italy. This structure works to 


* In separate conversations with Fortunato and Methnani in March and November 2001 
respectively, I was told by the former that he discussed Methnani’s experiences in Italy 
with him regularly and at length, and then he (Fortunato) went away to the south of Italy 
and wrote the novel; by Methnani that he wrote diaries of his experiences as he moved 
around Italy, and then handed over the diaries to Fortunato, who structured them to make 
the novel, and corrected the Italian prose. The publishers’ account is that the text was 
written by Methnani and “rivisto dopo” by Fortunato. 





Exile Within Italy in Texts by Migrant Writers 373 


embed the migrant’s exile in Italy firmly within the chronological and yet 
circular context of before and after, at home. Home thus frames the place and 
experience of exile in the novel, creating the sense of a stable reference point, a 
sense consolidated by the association of home with the father, who encourages 
the narrator to emigrate and listens to the report of this experience on his return. 
However, the relationship between the places of home and exile is more 
unstable than this description suggests, and this instability is marked by the text 
of the novel. The return to the city of Kairouan rather than Tunis, where the 
story began, points out a dislocation in the loop of the narrative; the fixed 
reference point has shifted. The name Kairouan, the reader is told, derives from 
the Arabic word for encampment, and the narrator arrives back there on market 
day, when the provisionality of the settlement is accentuated by the mobility of 
the people and structures which temporarily inhabit it. The narrator has not 
returned to stay, but rather will depart again on a further journey. In this way, 
the conclusion of the novel is disrupted in order to underline a point, to be 
discussed below, which is made also in the other novels I have selected, in other 
works of italophone migrant writing, and in many conventional texts about 
exile: the impossibility of return. 

Fortunato’s placing of the story in Italy within the frame of the story in 
Tunisia stands in contrast to the ways in which narratives of home and abroad 
are structured in the novels of Melliti and Kubati. The latter have in common the 
maintenance of an interplay between home and the place of exile, producing the 
effect of an explicit narrative, taking place in the present day and the present 
country, and behind it an implicit narrative, ongoing in the past and the home 
country, which both commentates and generates the main story. The effects in 
both novels are similar, but the means of creating and sustaining the double 
narrative differ. In Melliti’s text, the Ur-narrative expresses itself largely by 
means of alternative narrative voices, one of the most powerful of which is 
silence. The silences which occur amongst the multi-ethnic group of migrants in 
Rome who inhabit the Pantanella building, a disused warehouse, are often the 
opportunity for reflection on the past and on the experience of emigration. The 
telling of individual stories of the past gives way to silences during which each 
listener assimilates the testimonianza just given, comparing it to his own 
experience (the inhabitants all seem to be male), and so, under the impetus of the 
story and with the mediation of silence, making the transfer between present and 
past, exile and home. It is interesting that the process shifts from the tellable to 
the untellable: stories of the past can be recounted, but for the individual to re- 
visit his past, there must be a passage through and beyond verbalization. This at 
once signals the painfully private and incommunicable quality of the loss which 
exile represents, and also suggests that expression, narrativization is somehow 
compromised by the condition of exile. Certain things cannot be said in a 
language which the teller does not possess, in an environment in which he is not 


374 Jennifer Burns 


at home.* Connected with this block in expression is a cognitive block. Silences 
occur in the narrative predominantly at night-time, and in this way, silence 
seems to accommodate an alternative form of cognitive activity, connected to 
dreaming. It is as if, whilst passing beyond narrative into non-verbalizable 
reconstruction of past experience, the exile must also pass beyond rational 
thinking into non-logocentric reproduction of past experience. Home is 
represented as literally unthinkable and untellable in the place of exile, whilst at 
the same time it is clearly the metaphorical centre and source of all cognitive 
activity and of all self-representation. In this way, the two narratives of the novel 
are constituted: the literal, readable narrative of the present and the metaphorical 
narrative of the past which must be traced between the lines of the text. 

Silence is not the only alternative narrative voice in this novel. Narrated 
predominantly in the third person, and predominantly through the consciousness 
of a single, central individual — a young, highly educated migrant named 
Ahmad — the narrative voice periodically shifts. Often, the central voice is 
simply that of another migrant, who tells his own story in the ways discussed 
above, but it also shifts to less identifiable positions, such as the collective, 
choral voice of the migrant community, or the voice of an overseer or god, 
addressing the entire community as voi. These latter, ineffable voices have a 
quality of timelessness and spacelessness which links them to the silence so 
prominent in the narrative, and so to the past, and to the home culture and 
community. Again, they contribute to constructing the past and home as a 
metaphorical space, and even a mystical one. Exile is the speakable, thinkable, 
real experience of the present, but true identity seems to lie in the unspeakable, 
unthinkable figurative experience of the past. 


By means of structural strategies similar to those used by Melliti in 
Pantanella, Elton, io narrante of Kubati’s Va e non torna, is repeatedly 
transported back, metaphorically, from Italy to Albania. These excursions into 
the past and into the home country occur when an event in the present triggers a 
memory of the past, and so the past is re-visited. Occasionally, this occurs in 
dreams, and so has affinities with the night-time psychological excursions which 
take place in the Pantanella building, although a major distinction in Kubati’s 
novel is that this is always an individual experience, rather than a collective one. 
An example of the transfer from present to past, Italy to Albania, is a phone call 
Elton receives from a former girlfriend at home, Iris. She is phoning to tell him 


* The inexpressibility of the loss of the homeland is underlined in the novel by the use of 
the Arabic word ghurba to describe the emotions of the migrants when they think of 
home. That the word cannot be translated in the text indicates that it is essentially of the 
home culture, and that the emotions it describes are incommunicable to someone not of 
that culture, and not experiencing exile. The word is explained in a footnote to p. 12 of 
the novel. 





Exile Within Italy in Texts by Migrant Writers 375 


that a mutual friend has been injured in a car accident, but the emotions inspired 
in Elton by her call focus not on the friend, but on Iris, and on her context, i.e., 
the past, in Albania. In a short paragraph transcribing Elton’s thoughts following 
the phone call, “i bei tempi andati” are evoked three times (114-15). This 
powerful surge of nostalgia leads into a narrative of the past, and of his 
relationship with Iris, which constitutes an entire chapter of the novel (116-26). 
This structural diversion in the narrative thus demonstrates the power and the 
proximity of the past. It takes little to hijack the journey in the new country and 
force a diversion back to the old one, and here lies an irony which undermines 
the title of the novel: prominent is a sort of metaphorical return, underlining the 
impossibility of not always returning, psychologically and emotionally at least, 
to the point of departure. 

This concept is underscored structurally by the final chapter of the novel, in 
which the narrative returns literally to the point and the moment of departure — 
the port of Durazzo. In this way, the destination of the narrative comes to be the 
point of departure of the individual, and the story of exile ends at the moment of 
exile. Less than a return to the beginning, however, this represents in narrative 
terms the juncture of two endings (which are also beginnings), in the sense that, 
in narrative time, it marks the end of the story of Elton’s life in Albania (opening 
towards the beginning of a new one in Italy), and, in “real” time, the end of the 
story of his life so far in Italy (opening towards the future in Italy). In this way, 
this closure points out that the narrative excursions into the past have not been as 
unprogrammatic as they appear to be, even if they are prompted by seemingly 
random occurrences in the present. They have, in fact, recounted piecemeal a 
narrative of Elton’s life before his life in Italy, and so have constructed a 
background narrative, or, as in Melliti’s novel, an Ur-narrative, which runs in 
parallel to the foreground narrative in the text, and acts as its index. The 
implication is that the experiences of the exile cannot be understood, cannot be 
narrated fully, without reference to the past and the home country. 

The suggestion that any narrative of the self must ultimately derive from 
home, must recognize and play out its own state of exile, is structurally 
reinforced by the central section of this novel (pages 83-100 in a text of 193 
pages), where there is an italicized section recounting the conversations of 
prisoners in jail in Albania, who are about to be released due to an amnesty. Its 
central position, and the fact that it is printed in italics, make this section both 
the fulcrum of the novel and an excursion into a different reality — or unreality, 
beyond reality. Not only does this section encapsulate the Ur-text which home 
and the experience of political exile constitute; it also establishes a nucleus of 
significance in which story-telling, exile, and political commitment are 
conjoined. This is confirmed at the end of the section, when the reader is told 
that the italicized section is part of a novel Elton is writing. There seems thus to 
be a confirmation that the act and practice of writing are embedded within past 
experience and within the home culture, and that exile is a formative experience 


376 Jennifer Burns 


not only in that it forms personal and political attitudes, but also in that it forms, 
and informs, writing. 

Structural similarities and differences in these novels are reflected in the 
ways in which the notion of exile is deployed and explored in them. In all, exile 
is figured as a condition of loss and of nostalgia, and, as already indicated, 
return is seen as impossible, in the literal sense at least. The issue of the extent to 
which migration in these instances is voluntary is again raised by the extent to 
which the home country is figured as central, fundamental, and yet necessarily a 
point of departure rather than of destination: these themes are treated very 
differently in each of the novels under discussion. /mmigrato is distinctive in 
stressing, as well as the impossibility of return, the impossibility of belonging — 
anywhere. The particular pertinence of the return to the displaced father (having 
moved from Tunis to Kairouan) is that he is a shifting reference point 
throughout the narrator’s life, as it is recounted to us. Home is never figured as 
something stable or constant in this novel; rather, individual human experience 
is represented as essentially dislocated, essentially exilic. We are told in the first 
chapter that the narrator and his sister were sent to be educated at a boarding 
school distant from their home when their parents divorced, and he comments: 
“Ci sentivamo in una specie di esilio, in un limbo” (9).° Later in adolescence, the 
narrator describes clearly the mechanisms by which he personally, and his 
generation collectively, mythologized the “west,” but most immediately Italy, on 
the basis of fantasies of material and sexual plenty fuelled by media images of 
European society and encounters with European tourists. For the narrator, this is 
an intensely personal and private process, concerned predominantly with 
exploring the Italian language, but for the wider public, the focus is consumer 
goods and material wealth. Whilst recognizing the same processes of myth 
construction in himself and in others, the narrator differentiates himself starkly, 
claiming he had no interest in acquiring the money and clothes and attitude to 
become a “fighetto occidentale” (12), and thus underlining again his sense of 
estrangement from his environment, even at “home.” In fact, he is not “at home” 
at home, and in this novel perhaps more than in the others discussed here, 
departure from home is seen more as a personal evolution than as a breach. 

This almost universalizing of the concept of exile in this novel might appear 
to stretch the significance of it to the point of meaninglessness, and yet there is a 
specificity to the sense of estrangement in the novel brought about by physical, 
geographical displacement. As my comments so far demonstrate, this is a text 
which might readily be described as a discussion about identity. The process of 
self-questioning, which is begun in childhood and adolescence in Tunisia, is 
accelerated and accentuated once the narrator has migrated to Italy, and this is 
largely owed to the confrontation between a number of images and identities 
both formed from the inside and attributed from the outside. Whilst one 


° My references are to the first edition of the novel (1990). 


Exile Within Italy in Texts by Migrant Writers 377 


powerful sense of displacement derives from a contrast between himself and the 
Italian environment (“Per strada, mi guardo intorno come un pesce fuor 
d’acqua” 18), when he has recourse to fellow North African migrants, even 
fellow Tunisians, to provide some source of identification, he is still left feeling 
estranged. During his early days in the south of Italy, he encounters several 
times a migrant named Jabari, whom he first sees stealing in a shop, and who 
later recommends to him homosexual prostitution as the only secure way to 
make a living in Italy as a migrant. These encounters trouble the narrator deeply, 
offering as they do images of the North African migrant with which he 
desperately does not want to identify, images which lurk mockingly and 
threateningly behind the self-images he has been nurturing of a cultured 
graduate building a new life abroad. He comments: “Non riesco a fare a meno di 
ripensare al nordafricano che rubava. Non so perché, ma il fatto mi da fastidio, 
come se anch’io rubassi con lui. Chissa se era tunisino. Dall’accento, direi di no. 
In ogni caso, preferirei non lo fosse” (17-18). The repetitions here of the 
negative (“no,” “non’’) and the short periods vivify the persistent return of this 
particular repressed and the insistent efforts to deny the possibility of 
recognition which Jabari offers. On a subsequent encounter, he faces his anxiety 
more directly: “Forse, semplicemente, ho timore di scorgere nelle sue parole, nei 
gesti, qualcosa di me, della mia storia” (22). Ultimately, however, he forces 
himself to use the source of identification that Jabari represents, instead, as a 
tool for differentiation, and thus for affirmation of his own, superior identity: 
“Ma io, ne sono sicuro, sono diverso da lui. Non finiré in carcere, e non venderd 
mai il mio corpo. Se Jabari sta tornando indietro, io riuscird ad andare avanti: ho 
una laurea, sono giovane, e non sono un delinquente” (27). 

Returning to Said’s distinction between the individual, intellectual exile of 
the past and the mass, political-economic exiles of the present, we can see in the 
figure of the immigrato-narrante in this novel a clash between the two, as he 
struggles to mould himself an identity as an intellectual displaced in an 
ultimately positive way, and so to differentiate himself from the nameless 
masses of immigrants. Exile does not in this case lead to an exaggerated and 
idealized identification with home and with all traces of it, as perhaps 
convention would have it, but rather aggravates an itching need to peel off the 
uncomfortable and unsightly associations of home, its community, its culture: a 
need underscored by the sense of impatience to move on which dominates in the 
closing chapter of the novel, when home is revisited. This rejection of home is 
expressed in the middle of the novel: “Io stesso, il colore della mia pelle, la mia 
lingua, il modo in cui ho preso a vestirmi: tutto fa parte di un paesaggio che 
comincio a odiare, e che é@ il mio paesaggio” (44). The last phrase of this 
quotation points out the equivocal nature of the rejection of the identity formed 
in the home country: it is at once a recognition and a rejection. The search for a 
new identity in the adopted country fails in /mmigrato, since the tension 
between pride in the home culture and the impulse to reject it, between desire 


378 Jennifer Burns 


for a new identity fashioned in a European country and the impulse to reject the 
culture of that country or continent, is never resolved. But, as the quotation 
indicates, with its references to skin colour, speech, and clothing, the rejection of 
the home identity is a rejection of it as perceived by an outsider rather than 
experienced as an insider. It is the result of the io narrante seeing himself from 
the outside, in the role of the immigrato of the title, and starting to assimilate 
that role, in a distorted type of integration. The search for a redefined identity 
which the novel represents as being the significance of emigration for the 
individual results ultimately in a sense of self-estrangement. 

Self-estrangement also figures as an inevitable factor of migration in 
Melliti’s Pantanella, though here it is not part of a discussion about identity 
formation, but rather part of a larger examination of the process of 
mythologization of other places. Like Fortunato and Methnani, Melliti examines 
the constructions of “here” and “there” and the operations of desire within these 
constructions, but he explores further into the psychological and cognitive 
processes of myth construction, problematizing particularly any fixed 
relationship between home and place of exile. He does this by means of a 
recurrent image in the text, “l’altra sponda,” exploiting fully the mobility and 
fluidity of the notion of “other” and of the shore as a place of both arrival and 
departure, and a place which is constantly changing its form and shifting. When 
used with reference to Ahmad himself, the “other shore” appears to be a 
cognitive rather than a geographical locus: 


Si fece notte. C’era la luna, e il vento. Allora Ahmad fuggi lontano con i suoi ricordi 
lacerati dalla nostalgia, dal rimpianto e dal timore di un futuro ignoto. [...] Il silenzio si 
impadroniva di lui, e a volte nascondeva una lotta nel suo animo. [...] Gli sembrava di 
girare in un circolo vizioso. E le domande inquietanti che si poneva lo stancavano. Ogni 
giorno aveva |’impressione che la logica non fosse in accordo con il suo obiettivo. Non 
conosceva quale fosse il vero mezzo per passare dall’altra sponda. A volte fuggiva le 
domande che lo straziavano con alcune risate tristi. Oppure scriveva poesie. 

(19) 


“L’altra sponda” here is a place of understanding, a place where things 
make sense. In this way, exile starts to be figured in the text as a cognitive 
dislocation as well as a physical and emotional one: it seems that Ahmad’s 
capacities of comprehension are incapacitated in the place of exile, and can only 
be restored to normal functioning by means of a return to the home of thinking. 
It is interesting, too, that here, a link is made between home, cognitive activity, 
and creative writing. The recourse to poetry composition as a way of avoiding 
the torment of unanswerable questions suggests that the act of writing in or 
about exile is both an escape (back to the “other shore”) and a constructive 
attempt to bridge the gap between home and exile. 

The equation of the “other shore” with understanding, and of exile with 
cognitive disruption, is made explicit in a later passage in the novel in which, 


Exile Within Italy in Texts by Migrant Writers 379 
again, it is Ahmad who evokes the image whilst thinking, at night, alone: 


Le domande gli rimbombavano in testa. “Perché sono venuto? Cosa fard?” Ecco |’ esilio! 
Innanzitutto é |’esilio dell’anima e se la mente é presa da qualcosa, |’agitazione fa il suo 
lavoro e ti spezza dentro. “Vivo una crisi o un problema?” Cosi si chiedeva. Si sforzava 
di trovare una risposta affinché la realta lo liberasse da questo oceano in cui si dimenava, 
che non conosceva ancora, e chissa se avrebbe mai potuto raggiungere |’altra sponda sano 
e salvo. 

(68) 


Melliti thus explores the notion of self-estrangement, which Fortunato and 
Methnani also evoke, though here it is clearly a cerebral disruption, the effect of 
which is close to madness. 

Where the image of “l’altra sponda” is used with relation to other characters 
in Pantanella, it is associated with the silence typical of this text, and with the 
individual testimonies of migrants. For example, Mustafa talks of his family at 
home, and then: “II silenzio regnd per alcuni istanti e forse ognuno di loro 
disegno nella propria mente l’immagine di un vasto deserto. Si calmarono o 
forse fantasticavano lontano, dal centro di Roma all’altra sponda del 
Mediterraneo” (16). Despite the ineffability suggested by the notions of silence 
and of the metaphorical desert, the “other shore” is here clearly marked as the 
southern shore of the Mediterranean, and therefore as home. However, when the 
image recurs at a moment when another migrant, Khaled, is thinking about his 
past, it has more a complex inflection: 


Sotto |’effetto di questi pensieri e di queste sensazioni, le immagini cominciarono a 
confondersi, ad andare a zig zag e poi di nuovo dritte, danzando sulle acque del 
Mediterraneo. Il rumore assordante delle onde altissime e il flusso della marea lo 


[Khaled] riportavano sull’altra sponda. 
(20-21) 


The processes of memory and nostalgia thus transport Khaled south. But at 
the end of the same page in the text, Khaled outlines his impressions and 
expectations of Italy, before he arrived there, and describes this country on the 
northern side of the Mediterranean as “il paradiso terrestre, [...] ’altra sponda 
del Mediterraneo” (21). This shift effectively exploits the metaphorical potential 
of the circular sea to be spun through 180 degrees in order to demonstrate the 
interchangeability of north and south. More specifically, it illustrates the power 
of desire to construct other places as paradises, utopias, “no-places,” but also 
commonplaces: the target and object of individual and collective aspirations 
rather than real geographical and cultural locations with genuinely different 
properties and characteristics. Khaled’s reversal of the image points out the 
reversibility of the experience of exile: what was the “other shore,” the paradise, 
before departure becomes, on arrival, the place of banishment, estrangement, 


380 Jennifer Burns 


imprisonment, and desire channels its energies back towards the place of 
departure, transforming it into the fabulous place of alterity. 

Va e non torna, unlike Immigrato and Pantanella, is not a narrative of the 
early experiences of migration — scraping together a living, finding temporary 
accommodation, the risks of exploitation, etc. The protagonist of Kubati’s novel, 
Elton, is a student who appears to be well-established in the university 
community of the city where he lives; his studies are going well, he has a 
number of friends, mostly Italian, he has an apartment to live in, he has part- 
time jobs.’ In short, any day-to-day difficulties in his life are those associated 
with being a student, rather than a migrant. However, his existence in Italy is 
deeply imbued with the experience of exile, and, in turn, the novel is hinged 
upon the notion of departure. The first of these statements is relatively easily 
illustrated: one of Elton’s part-time jobs is as translator and interpreter for the 
police and judiciary, so he is in daily, intimate contact with the traffic in 
migrants between Albania and southern Italy, and with the lives of migrants 
once arrived. His work with the police predominantly involves him listening to 
and translating intercepted phone calls, and the transcriptions of these 
conversations in the text bring home very powerfully, at once to Elton himself 
and to the reader, the risks associated with migration of physical damage, of 
exploitation, of disillusionment. He hears, for example, men discussing the 
importation of women to work in the sex trade, although the women believe they 
are simply emigrating; he hears the broken conversations between migrants on 
small boats approaching the Italian coast, as one boat is lost from sight and 
appears to have capsized. 

Elton’s relatively comfortable and successful existence as an individual in 
his destination country is thus punctuated and punctured regularly by reminders 
of the multi-faceted problem of emigration from his home country. Similarly, in 
his second part-time job, Elton is a waiter in a pizzeria, a role which brings him 
directly into contact with the range of responses to immigrants played out in the 
host country. He is alternately treated as the lowest-level drudge and as a 
showcase employee, according to the way in which the restaurant manager 
chooses to pander to the attitudes of his customers. Prejudice is an issue which 
he faces every day, generally with good humour. In this way, Elton’s life in Italy 
is again persistently related to the fact of his migration, and his two types of 
work construct a detailed but subtle tableau of the problems of migration, 
viewed both from the departure and destination sides. 


7 The different social status and level of integration in Italian society which Elton 
experiences, together with the distancing of author from narrator (who is, nevertheless, a 
figure of the author), indicate that this novel, published a decade after /mmigrato, 
represents a different stage in the development of italophone migrant writing, moving 
away from autobiographical testimonies of the hardships of migration towards narratives 
of individual experience connected with migration. 


Exile Within Italy in Texts by Migrant Writers 381 


The ways in which the novel is hinged upon the notion of departure are 
more complex. The title, of course, signals a departure with no prospect of 
return. This title is explained towards the end of the novel, where there is a brief 
excursion into Balkan folklore and its narrative conventions. The hero, we are 
told, inevitably arrives at a point in his journey at which he has three paths open 
to him: “va e torna facilmente, va e torna con difficolta, va e non torna” (186). 
The first two are never explored; nothing happens along those paths, and so 
from the point of view of narrativity, they are insignificant. The hero inevitably 
takes the third path, because along this path lie experiences and challenges: this 
is the path of life. Elton, as io narrante, in explaining this tradition to the reader, 
underscores not only the impossibility of return for him personally, but for all 
the migrants he remotely encounters in the course of his work and of his life in 
Italy. Rather than a sense of exile, the novel in this way is perhaps pervaded by 
the notion of exodus: an entire population, or rather, culture, since the references 
to folklore reach way beyond the national boundaries of Albania, appears to be 
abandoning its homeland with the desperate desire to find life elsewhere. 

On the more personal level of this novel, though, it is exile which defines its 
tone and structure. Elton’s existence and experience in Italy are consistently 
mapped onto his literally formative experiences in his home country, and exile is 
a condition which informs even life at home (there are affinities here with the 
representation in /mmigrato of Methnani’s sense of dislocation in Tunisia). 
Elton’s father is exiled, in a more conventional sense, during the boy’s 
childhood: he is arrested for political reasons, and incarcerated in a remote 
region of the country. Kubati explores the romantic quality of this particular 
exile, especially in the eyes of the boy, who to a certain extent enjoys the heroic 
glow which emanates from his father and illuminates favourably the son who 
must cope in his father’s absence. Also, it is the occasion of the boy’s first exile, 
since he is sent to stay with grandparents in Durazzo in order to avoid troubles at 
home following his father’s arrest. In this way, his father’s exile seems to 
predicate a life of exile for the son. Central to the narrative, though, is that this 
primary exile signifies that any sort of political commitment or activity is 
necessarily accompanied by estrangement; if an individual wishes to take a 
political stance, she or he must recognize that departure from home is intrinsic to 
that position. As the novel narrates, piecemeal, events in Tirana in 1990 and 
1991, it develops a seemingly inevitable impetus towards departure. 

In this way this novel proposes yet another shade in the spectrum of 
positions between voluntary and involuntary exile: the decision to leave home is 
not represented as one motivated by individual desire or will, but rather it seems 
to evolve in a historical process which brings a generation or nation collectively 
to the point of departure. Elton is convinced, by the experience of his father and 
by his own observations of politics in Albania, that there is no future for him in 
that country, and yet the steps which lead to his departure are part of a collective 
movement: protests, hunger strike, large-scale departures (as discussed above, 


382 Jennifer Burns 
exodus rather than exile). This is underscored as Elton’s departure is narrated: 


Rivoluzionari o immigrati, emigranti o ribelli perché giovani, oltre un regime, oltre il 
muro, oltre il mare, oltre il giorno, che rinchiudono, fissano, realizzano una realta che 
vogliamo cambiare o abbandonare, irresistibilmente attratti dal futuro dall’altra parte del 
muro, dall’altra parte del mare, di notte alla ricerca di un altrimenti che pud essere 
altrove, o di un altrove che é anche altrimenti, che comunque non si svelano che di colpo, 
senza preavviso, ad alba arrivata. 

(189) 


The sense of moving beyond, to an other space, is figured, as in Melliti’s 
Pantanella, not simply as a geographical move, but as a transfer to an existence 
which is entirely other, and entirely better. This vignette of mythologization is 
consolidated in the final chapter of the novel, when Elton and companions board 
a boat. It is interesting that the passive voice is persistently used: for example, 
the fishing boat moves without them rowing it, and the ship lets itself be 
boarded (191-92). There is almost a sense that a greater will (and a just will) is 
carrying them away from Albania, and this mythical quality is signalled by the 
name of the ship which they board, the Legend. 

Kubati’s novel thus brings my discussion back to its starting point: the 
~ question of willed or enforced absence from home. As the legendary quality of 
the narration of Elton’s departure from Durazzo suggests, reinforced by the 
situation of this episode as the culmination of the entire narrative, there is a 
triumphant quality to his exile. In /mmigrato and in Pantanella, departure itself 
is understated, and yet the exploration of sacred utopias, whether connected with 
Italy as seen from the south, or with home as seen from the north, lends the 
condition of exile a mythical status. It is possible to conclude, then, that in 
apparent contradiction of the distinctions between contemporary migrant writing 
and traditional literature of exile that I set out at the beginning of this essay, the 
two types of exile-related writing have in common the construction of departure 
and of absence as an epic journey. The act of creating a narrative of a difficult 
and, to various extents, unwilled life experience appears both to appropriate to 
the individual control over what is otherwise a situation out of his or her control, 
and to impart to a personal struggle the status of an essential collective 
experience. Said’s distinction between individual intellectual exiles and “the 
refugee-peasants with no prospect of ever returning home, armed only with a 
ration card and an agency number” (176) does not take into account those 
modern-day migrants armed also with education and intellectual ambition, who 
aspire to use artistic representation of their particular kind of exile not only as a 
palliative or as a mode of rationalizing a disillusionment, but also as a means of 
making their experience signify, for themselves and for their readers. 

The three novels discussed here, and others published recently in Italy by 
migrant writers, have in common that they take what appears to be a salient 





Exile Within Italy in Texts by Migrant Writers 383 


human characteristic, and perhaps weakness — the capacity to project one’s 
desires so powerfully onto blank spaces that one creates cities, countries, 
continents of the mind which, when experienced, may turn out to be the places 
of madness rather than of tranquil understanding — and use it as the source of a 
narrative. The desire to migrate itself, the concomitant desire to return home, 
and the desire to tell stories are linked by the common impulse to create a 
coherent and fully-formed other, or alternative, place. In this way, italophone 
migrant writing can perhaps be seen as a re-visiting and re-exploration, 
contextualized within acutely contemporary Italian social and cultural changes, 
of the traditional literary topos of exile. 


University of Warwick, U.K. 


384 Jennifer Burns 


Works Cited 


Concise Oxford Dictionary. 7th ed. Oxford: Oxford UP, 1982. 
Gnisci, Armando. // rovescio del gioco. Roma: Sovera, 1993. 
.Una storia diversa. Roma: Meltemi, 2001. 

Parati, Graziella. “Looking Through Non-Western Eyes: Immigrant Women’s 
Autobiographical Narratives in Italian.” Writing New Identities: Gender, Nation, 
and Immigration in Contemporary Europe. Ed. Gisela Brinker-Gabler and Sidonie 
Smith. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1997. 118-42. 

Said, Edward. Reflections on Exile and Other Essays. Cambridge: Harvard UP, 2000. 


Selected Bibliography: Primary Texts 


Anonimo. Jo accuso!. Ed. Romano Giuffrida. Sesto San Giovanni: II Papiro, 1996. 

Ben Jelloun, Tahar, with Egi Volterrani. Dove lo stato non c’é: racconti italiani. Torino: 
Einaudi, 1991. 

Bouchane, Mohamed. Chiamatemi Ali. Ed. Carla De Girolamo and Daniele Miccione. 
Milano: Leonardo, 1990. 

Carlini, Giuliano, ed. La terra in faccia: gli immigrati raccontano. Roma: Ediesse, 1991. 

Chohra, Nassera. Volevo diventare bianca. Roma: E/O, 1993. 

Fazel, Shirin Ramzanali. Lontano da Mogadiscio. Roma: Datanews, 1994. 

Fortunato, Mario, and Salah Methnani. 1990. Jmmigrato. Roma: Theoria, 1997. 

Gadji, Mbacke. Lo spirito delle sabbie gialle. Milano: Edizioni dell’ Arco, 1999. 

Khouma, Pap. Jo, venditore di elefanti: una vita per forza fra Dakar, Parigi e Milano. 
Ed. Oreste Pivetta. Milano: Garzanti, 1990. 

Kubati, Ervin and Ron. Eréra lirie dhe rénkime dhimbjesh / Venti di liberta e gemiti di 
dolore: testimonianza raccolta e introdotta da Renato Brucoli. Terlizzi (BA): Ed 
Insieme, 1991. 

Kubati, Ron. Va e non torna. Nardo (LE): Besa, 2000. 

Malek, Smari Abdel. Fiamme in paradiso. Milano: II Saggiatore, 2000. 

Melliti, Mohsen. Pantanella: canto lungo la strada. Trans. Monica Ruocco. Roma: 
Edizioni Lavoro, 1993. 

. 1 bambini delle rose. Roma: Edizioni Lavoro, 1995. 

Micheletti, P. Alessandro, and Saidou Moussa Ba. La promessa di Hamadi. Novara: 
Istituto geografico De Agostini, 1991. 

. La memoria di A. Milano: Edizioni Gruppo Abele, 1995. 

Ottieri, Maria Pace. Stranieri: un atlante di voci. Milano: Rizzoli, 1997. 

Parati, Graziella, ed. Mediterranean Crossroads: Migration Literature in Italy. Madison: 
Fairleigh Dickinson UP, 1999. 

Sibhatu, Ribka. Au/6é: canto-poesia dall’Eritrea. Roma: Sinnos, 1998. 

Tawfik, Younis. La straniera. Milano: Bompiani, 1999. 








Simona Wright 


Esperienza dell’ esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 


Lei non é del castello, lei non é del paese, lei non é nulla. 

Purtuttavia anche lei é qualcosa, sventuratamente, lei é un 

forestiero, uno che é sempre di troppo e sempre fra i piedi. 
(Kafka, Das SchloB 69; mia traduz.) 


Gli ultimi vent’anni del secondo millennio rappresentano per la letteratura e la 
cultura italiane un periodo di interessanti trasformazioni, sedimentazioni e 
mescolanze. Ad essere fecondato dal rapido giustapporsi di sollecitazioni interne 
ed esterne é stato senza dubbio il dibattito intellettuale, nel quale si é assistito ad 
una esplosione di interventi critici e filosofici che hanno a loro volta portato a 
vivaci controversie tra i vari esponenti dell’ intellighentzia italiana. Si rammenti 
ad esempio la polemica suscitata dalla filosofia del “pensiero debole”, sintesi 
ideologica e contenuta in due importanti volumi curati da Gianni Vattimo e Pier 
Aldo Rovatti (1983) e da Alessandro del Lago e dallo stesso Rovatti (1989). Ad 
una comune radice postmoderna, ma con un peso specifico proprio ed una linea 
di sviluppo autonoma, si collega la riflessione filosofica delle studiose del 
gruppo veronese Diotima, Adriana Cavarero (1990 e1995) e Luisa Muraro 
(1991 e 1995). Le loro pratiche teoriche, scaturite nel contesto del Collettivo 
milanese facente capo alla Libreria delle Donne, hanno prodotto la elaborazione 
del concetto della differenza sessuale e hanno portato al recupero di una 
prospettiva epistemologica fondata sull’ordine simbolico della madre. 

Tra gli anni ’80 e ’90 si é poi verificato un fenomeno di grande rilevanza 
per la societa italiana, |’afflusso e lo stabilirsi, entro i confini del paese, di un 
numeroso contingente di stranieri, extra-comunitari attratti dall’apertura dei 
confini europei, e immigrati giunti dai paesi satelliti dell’ex Unione Sovietica. 
Tra questi si sono trovati anche coloro i quali, esuli o esiliati, fuggivano dalla 
propria terra per motivi politici. Diplomati o laureati, generalmente istruiti, 
questi nuovi migranti hanno cominciato a far sentire la loro presenza nella 
societa e cultura italiane.’ Con voce dapprima sommessa e poi con sempre 


' Su questo tema Maher propone un quadro panoramico delle problematiche socio- 
culturali emerse a seguito dell’accresciuto flusso migratorio degli ultimi decenni. In 
particolare la studiosa sottolinea la mancanza di rapporti socio-culturali tra ai nuovi 
immigrati e i vari livelli della societa italiana; una carenza di relazioni che ha contribuito 
alla stereotipizzazione dei vari gruppi etnici provenienti dai diversi paesi europei ed 
extra-europei (166-77). 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


386 Simona Wright 


maggior determinazione, si stanno facendo largo, nel panorama letterario del 
nostro paese, una energia e un pensiero nuovi, fondati su matrici esperienziali e 
umane diverse da quelle conosciute e familiari. La presenza di questo giovane 
gruppo di scrittori non italiani, appartenenti, per comune esperienza piu che per 
condivisa localizzazione geografica, a quella che oggi viene accolta come la 
“letteratura della migrazione”, é stata notata in primo luogo da studiosi italiani’ 
e da una crescente schiera di italianisti operanti all’estero, in particolare negli 
Stati Uniti e in Canada.’ E proprio all’estero si é di recente aperto il dibattito sul 
tema della letteratura post-coloniale e dei suoi effetti sul mondo occidentale, 
sull’Europa, e in particolare sull’Italia,* sul suo trasformato contesto socio- 
culturale. Mentre da un lato si lamenta la scarsa attenzione data in questo paese 
a una riflessione dialettica sul passato coloniale,’ dall’altro si notano oggi, in 
alcuni studiosi e ricercatori, una sensibilita ed una apertura nuove, un rinnovato 
interesse a partecipare al dibattito sulle problematiche post-coloniali e a 
elaborare una coscienza criticamente obiettiva dei periodi meno gloriosi della 
nostra storia recente. Ma soprattutto tra di essi é sentita la necessita di attuare la 
riformulazione del canone letterario dominante, un canone da troppo tempo 
assediato su un modello monoetnico ed eurocentrico.° 

Si é dunque alla ricerca di nuovi parametri ermeneutici, di paradigmi critici 
plurali, interagenti, inclusivi e aperti, consoni ad interpretare e a rappresentare la 
complessa, molteplice realta culturale esistente oggi in Italia. La presenza nel 
panorama letterario nostrano dei nuovi scrittori “migranti” deve venire allora 
salutata come la manifestazione di un fenomeno, attualissimo, di penetrazione e 
mescolanza, in cui alle linee poetiche della tradizione si affiancano modelli 
letterari per cosi dire incongrui. 

La compresenza di queste nuove forze di tensione rappresenta senza dubbio 
un arricchimento ed un ampliamento del discorso estetico, ma richiedono, 
soprattutto agli inizi, uno studio attento delle tematiche, dello stile e 


* Si ricordino tra i primi Armando Gnisci, docente di Letteratura Comparata alla 
“Sapienza” di Roma, che da anni si occupa delle “poetiche della migrazione”, poi 
Luciano Carlini, Franca Sinopoli, e Filippo Bettini. 

3 Parati (1995 e 1997); Ruberto; Dombroski; Allen e Russo. 

* Si veda in particolare Dombroski. 

> “Quando propongo la ‘questione postcoloniale italiana’ intendo sostenere che la civilta 
italiana postunitaria — la nazione stato Italia — avendo rimosso il fato migratorio dei 
nostri popoli poveri e I’avventura coloniale delle nostre classi dirigenti post- 
risorgimentali cialtrone e pessime e il loro tragico nodo, non ha potuto dotarsi del 
discorso — innanzitutto culturale — [...] della critica della modernita occidentale, che 
oggi é rappresentato dal discorso di decolonizzazione reciproca tra europei colonialisti e 
popoli ex-colonizzati e coloro che oggi impongono e subiscono le nuove forme del 
colonialismo e dell’oppressione mondiale” (Sinopoli 2001, 190). Sullo stesso tema, 
Aden. 

° Si veda a questo proposito Sinopoli (2000, 155-65). 





Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 387 


dell’ideologia poetica che non tralascino di distinguere in modo sensibile le 
varie sfumature semantiche e i diversi modelli narrativi proposti. Che non si dia 
insomma, di queste forze emergenti, una definizione semplicistica e riduttiva, 
ma che se ne ricerchino ed esplorino al contrario le scaturigini creative e le 
prassi normative. E una dichiarazione di intenti che prevale tra i pit sensibili 
studiosi italiani i quali di questo movimento hanno gia offerto una ridefinizione. 
Invece che di “letteratura della migrazione” Franca Sinopoli preferisce infatti 
parlare di “poetiche della migrazione”, uno spostamento prospettico di 
fondamentale importanza che intende eliminare ogni rischio di 
marginalizzazione e far prevalere una critica rivolta pid efficacemente verso 
nuove formulazioni poetiche, culturali e storiche; un indirizzo di ricerca 
sicuramente benvenuto tra i nuovi scrittori, i quali prendono cautamente le 
distanze da ogni tentativo di catalogazione (2001, 193). 

Sono comunque evidenti, nelle opere di questi autori, caratteristiche 
tematiche e moduli evenienziali comuni, derivati dalla compartita esperienza 
dell’emigrazione e dell’insediamento in un paese straniero e in una cultura 
estranea a quella d’origine. E in questa comunanza di vissuti, bene illustrata 
nelle opere uscite negli ultimi dieci anni,’ che alcuni studiosi hanno potuto 
rintracciare una matrice poetica ricorrente e un modello di letteratura militante. 
In un recente intervento critico Franca Sinopoli formula una chiara proposta di 
ricerca sulle nuove “poetiche della migrazione”, indirizzando la propria analisi 
degli scrittori migranti “su cid che determina il loro impegno nel passaggio dal 
tema della emigrazione, ossia dal ‘figurato’ (la narrazione e illustrazione degli 
eventi del viaggio migratorio), al ‘figurale’ (la messa in scena di cid che accade 
a partire dall’esperienza dell’emigrazione, ora che essi sono qui e che quindi tale 
esperienza pud dirsi almeno momentaneamente conclusa). Questo ‘figurale’ 
comprende sia il sentito che il senziente, cioé accoglie in sé l’esperienza 
dell’estraneo e la messa in scena di sé come altro, oltre che dell’altro” (2001, 
193). 

E nella discriminante accentuata dalla studiosa che si potranno individuare 
le diverse strategie narrative e si dovra cogliere la specificita di nuovi modelli 
poetici ed ermeneutici.* In queste opere vengono infatti esplicitati sia l’universo 


7 Degni di nota sono in questo gruppo Bouchane, Methnani, Khouma, Melliti, Ramazali 
Fazel, Moussa, Lakhous, e Kubati. 

8 La studiosa sostiene la necessita, in sede critica, di un progetto di investigazione che 
delinei in primo luogo il corpus di questa emergente letteratura, definendo di essa gli 
elementi costitutivi, i temi, lo stile, i concetti retorico-formativi; in secondo luogo 
Sinopoli avverte l’esigenza di una riflessione sui rapporti interculturali avviati tra questa 
letteratura e il canone tradizionale, cioé i rapporti di impollinazione tra la cultura 
dell’emigrazione e la cultura italiana. Scopo di questa riflessione é quello di avviare da 
un lato un discorso interculturale della colonizzazione, dall’altro l’elaborazione di un 
discorso culturale transnazionale, aperto ed inclusivo. 


388 Simona Wright 


umano dell’emigrazione che una realta filtrata e articolata da un punto di vista 
contemporaneamente interno ed esterno, quello del migrante e straniero che vive 
la duplice condizione di inserimento in un dato sistema sociale e di estraneita 
dalle sue piu radicate matrici culturali. Le strategie di trasmutazione e 
codificazione del reale in un’opera letteraria non sono poi slegate dalla ricerca 
tecnico-retorico-formale, dalla appropriazione cioé di uno specifico bagaglio 
simbolico, analogico e metaforico che é importante indagare e delineare. 

La disamina di esperienze specifiche all’interno di questa letteratura servira 
a sostenere il discorso sin qui condotto e a fornire materiale per ulteriori studi e 
riflessioni. Tra le presenze piu interessanti di questo articolato panorama si deve 
registrare quella di Gézim Hajdari, la cui opera € proposta in queste pagine a 
modello di una cifra scrittoria in cui confluiscono il rapporto conflittuale con 
una cultura estranea, la constatazione di una graduale perdita del sé e la 
conseguente sfida al senso di marginalita e di disfacimento opprimente. 

Poeta albanese da anni presente e attivo sulla scena letteraria italiana, esule 
politico dal 1992, Hajdari costituisce forse uno dei casi pil interessanti e 
complessi di esperienza della migrazione. Nato a Lushnje e laureatosi in lettere 
albanesi all’universita di Elbasan, Hajdari aveva gia nel suo paese intrapreso la 
carriera di poeta. La sua opposizione alla dittatura comunista e pit tardi al 
regime “democratico” del presidente Berisha gli valsero l’ostracismo e la 
condanna politica. Nel 1992, in seguito all’intensificarsi delle minacce alla sua 
incolumita, Hajdari fu costretto a lasciare il suo paese e a stabilirsi in Italia, dove 
ancora oggi vive e lavora. La sua poesia é stata accolta con interesse ed é stata 
premiata in diverse occasioni.’ I suoi versi sono stati pubblicati in diverse 
antologie e in sette raccolte personali, tra le quali spiccano, per rigore 
compositivo e unita tematica, Antologia della pioggia (1990), Ombra di cane 
(1993), Sassi contro vento (1995), Corpo presente (1999), Erbamara (2001), e 
Stigmate (2002). A tutte le raccolte soggiace una intenzione narrativa 
autobiografica, caratteristica che accomuna Hajdari agli scrittori migranti, e 
tuttavia il percorso poetico e umano di questo autore indirizza ad una 
investigazione di tutta l’opera, anche quella pubblicata e rubricata in Albania e 
precedente all’esperienza dell’ esilio. 

L’esame dell’opera complessiva si prefigge di esplorare le coordinate 
dell’itinerario esperienziale hajdariano e di illuminarne |’evoluzione tematico- 
simbolica. La selezione qui proposta si snoda da una realta poetica gia 
compiutamente strutturata negli anni della difficile convivenza con la 
nomenklatura albanese, in cui la ricerca della parola da opporre alla appiattente 
propaganda del regime si esprime in un verso centellinato, ponderato, 
scamificato, e rimane per Hajdari scuola di vita e di pensiero, atteggiamento 
sapienziale che é nel contempo etica della resistenza. La dedica “Alla mia 


° Ad Hajdari sono stati assegnati il premio Ekse Tra di Rimini (1996), il Premio Montale 
(1997), e il premio Citta di Trieste (2001). 


Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 389 


Albania/che divora i suoi figli/come Medea”, appare sul frontespizio di 
Antologia della pioggia, a delineare, con chiare coordinate spazio-temporali, la 
vicenda del poeta, il cui dramma é legato alla storia della terra di origine, tragica 
e incontrovertibile presenza negli anni albanesi, assillante richiamo nella 
distanza dell’ esilio: 


Forse nelle colline brulle di Darsia 
verranno chiusi i miei versi fragili 
sotto le spine secche del melograno 
picchiati dai venti gelidi d’Oriente 


Lontani dagli amori delle fanciulle 
che sapranno mai della loro angoscia 
solitari sotto il cielo nero 

come il pettirosso nel buio d’inverno 


Il fruscio dell’erba, il canto del merlo 
faranno compagnia al loro lamento 
mentre le notti corte d’autunno 
li copriranno con la pallida luna. 
(Antologia della pioggia 27) 


Nell’incipit dubitativo si addensa e si dissolve |’io poetico, nel timore 
speranzoso che il proprio dire fragile venga serrato entro |’orizzonte di un 
paesaggio impervio e tuttavia familiare, intimo e quotidiano. Un’inquietudine e 
una invocazione alla natura perché protegga, entro le asperita del proprio 
orizzonte, anche il verso dell’uomo e lo stesso poeta che vigila, come il 
pettirosso, nel buio di una stagione trafitta dal vento, nutrendosi della propria 
angoscia come di un bene prezioso e inalterabile. La natura, unica amica del 
poeta, gli si rivela, nelle sue manifestazioni pili impercettibili, come nume 
tutelare, spazio della creativita e della vita. Poesia di soffusa elegia, leopardiana 
nel referente semantico selenico e nella diffusa sofferenza del canto che nasce 
per venire celato, e chiuso, per resistere, dalla linea dell’orizzonte collinare. La 
poesia sorge, per Hajdari, gia consapevole del suo destino di clandestinita, e per 
questo il verso si fa secco, aspro e contratto, un sasso da lanciare nel vuoto, 
cosciente atto di opposizione a una realta gelida, che impone la morte 
individuale a gloria di una stolida massificazione. Privilegiato referente di molta 
poesia di questo periodo, nella natura e nei suoi elementi, il poeta iscrive il suo 
messaggio cifrato, il codice della disperazione, della insopprimibile resistenza di 
fronte all’ideologia del regime, alla grettezza censoria del suo apparato: 


Cieli chiari 
dove ti affacci e ti perdi 


390 Simona Wright 


Territori sterili 
dove germoglia 
l’ombra del tuo corpo. 
(Antologia della pioggia 35) 


E ancora: 


Accanto a me nulla scorre 
sono sempre io 
ricordo solo me stesso 
sulla terra incanutita. 
(Antologia della pioggia 41) 


Chi si ricorda 
della nostra infanzia 
di pura innocenza 


Che moriremo sotto 
questa pioggia sottile é certo 


Fisse le nostre forme 
all’ orizzonte 
che di freddo e di oblio 
si nutrono. 
(Antologia della pioggia 47) 


L’aridita, la sterilita del paesaggio hajdariano sono i traslati di uno spazio 
storico interiorizzato, la realta di una devastazione umana personificata nella 
canizie di una terra che, nata gia vecchia, nutre i propri figli di “freddo e oblio”, 
o li divora come Medea; di essi non rimane che un’ombra, una linea schiacciata 
contro l’orizzonte. Immagine ricorrente, 1’;Ombra é l’emblema di un “io” sottile, 
svuotato e rarefatto, assottigliatosi fino all’impercettibilita, un “io” che tuttavia 
continua a respingere i] vuoto assediante. La pioggia e la morte, uniche certezze, 
vengono contrapposte in questi versi ad una infanzia che é nel contempo luogo 
dell’innocenza e improbabile ritorno salvifico, poiché la forma rimane fissata 
all’orizzonte e cosi l’uomo, condannato al divenire di un immanente senza 
riscatto. 

La parola hajdariana é consapevole del divario incolmabile tra |’infanzia e 11 
presente, tra l’impossibile ritorno e la realta, e tuttavia il suo ricordo permane, 
lascito dell’immaginario da custodire gelosamente. Euforica e disforica, la 
memoria appaga e amareggia il poeta che oscilla tra la contemplazione di un 
universo irrecuperabile e lo sconsolante raffronto con I’hic et nunc. Nella sterile 
natura si riflette una umanita depredata anche dei propri sogni giovanili; é allora 
urgente incombenza del poeta raccogliere le memorie, preservarle dall’oblio, 
supremo strumento della barbarie. 


E ancora: 


Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 391 


In un pugno di sabbia la mia infanzia 
non la sciolsero le acque del torrente 
sulle bianche pietre le tracce di allora 
rispecchiate su un filo d’orizzonte 


Ancora sento i tuoi echi 

torrente avvolto di salici piangenti 
sulle conchiglie scorrono acque quiete 
cumuli di nebbie le tue valli 


Un tempo alla tua riva 

le donne lavavano i panni sulla pietra 
fino a sera nei campi si sentiva 
l’amara voce della peligorga 


Ora torrente della mia infanzia 
scorri nella nostalgia, lontano da me 
ma spesso nei sogni s’affacciano 
pugni di sabbia e conchiglie vuote 


Li é rimasto tutto, sabbia, pietre 
al fondo stanno date e anni 
come allora le conchiglie suonano 
echi notturni e venti invernali 
(Antologia della pioggia 71) 


Per campi ¢ sentieri 

andro come allora 

e raccoglierd 

gli anni sparsi dell’ infanzia 


Dov’é la luna piena, 

la rugiada del mattino? 
Solo piogge e fango 
mi circondano. 


Tace la polvere sulla strada 
erbamara nei prati. 

Sotto il cielo sempre cupo 
alberi nudi e solitari. 


Non pit tra le pietre 

fischi lontani e suoni: 

anche gli uccelli sono fuggiti 
con i loro sogni giovanili. 


392 Simona Wright 


Nulla cara é rimasto 
nei luoghi natal. 
Tutto, tutto é svanito 
E ricoperto dal Buio. 
(Pietre al confine 5) 


L’itinerario memoriale trasmuta l’esperienza tattile, visiva e sensitiva 
dell’infanzia in un sapere assoluto, cristallizzato in un tempo interiore collocato 
al di fuori e al di 1a della storia, depositato nel profondo; prezioso sedimento e 
ricchezza esclusiva dell’uomo, la memoria lo salva dal buio presente 
restituendogli cid che ha di piu suo. Nella dialettica opposizione tra procedere 
storico e ritmo dell’interiorita’ la rievocazione memoriale promette il 
rinvenimento di un ubi consistam; il torrente, la sabbia, le sue pietre, le sue 
conchiglie corrispondono metaforicamente ad una origine, ad una individualita 
recuperabile solo nella distanza e nella separazione. La sintesi onirica viene 
comunque soffusa di lievi presenze simboliche, |’"amaro” canto della peligorga, 
i salici “piangenti” che rinviano alla impossibilita di una rielaborazione in 
chiave idilliaca; il suono della terra-infanzia sparge infatti dalle conchiglie, 
come faceva un tempo, la fredda eco del vento nelle notti autunnali. 

Queste poesie, contenute nel primo volume di versi in italiano, sono una 
possibile aggiunta all’organismo originale, la cui pubblicazione avvenne presso 
la Frashéri di Tirana nel 1990. Sono gia presenti le tematiche della solitudine e 
dell’isolamento, condizioni queste registrate chiaramente dai versi posti in 
chiusa, probabilmente posteriori all’esperienza albanese. Si conclude con essi la 
prima fase della scrittura hajdariana, nella quale aveva prevalso una estenuante 
limatura del tessuto sintattico e del codice retorico, una rarefazione stilistica e 
concettuale che definisce la tramatura del verso e le da un timbro drammatico. II 
referente rinvia ad un orizzonte linguistico chiuso, costruito su una serie di 
segnali ricorrenti: la pioggia, il vento, la pietra, l’;Ombra, il Buio, l’inverno, la 
terra-madre, valenze semantico-simboliche in cui la voce poetica oggettivizza 
l’esperienza del dolore. 

Il testo che segue ha un andamento pit disteso, quasi narrativo, mentre il 
tessuto frastico é percorso da modulazioni autobiografiche; in esso viene fissato 
il momento iniziale della migrazione, uno spostamento fisico e geografico 
sostenuto dal dato geo-politico, quel documento di identita che fornisce una 
seppur vaga localizzazione evenienziale e ciclotimica, un porsi ingenuo di fronte 
all’evento. I] motivo del viaggio e dell’approdo é gia tutto esplicitato in quel 
“vengo” in posizione forte, che del soggetto senziente ha gia delineato il 
bagaglio storico, quella strada di “lampi e vento”, e nello stesso tempo lo ha 
collocato in un presente in divenire, un passaggio verso un luogo indeterminato, 
un luogo di possibile accoglienza: 


Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 393 


Vengo per la strada di lampi e vento 

in tasca la mia carta d’identita 

con la data di nascita e una piccola foto 

da provinciale distratto 

nel mio corpo profili di pioggia e di ombre 
degli anni che vivo per caso 

mi infrangono i giorni, mi uccidono le pietre 

la solitudine del pettirosso in inverno mi fa pena 


Ho il mio volto, la mia Voce, il mio nome 
lodo, amo, grido fino al sangue 
e temo gli abissi del Tempo 


Conosco gli assassini di Amleto 

la maledizione del cavallo di Troia la conosco 
non mi inchino agli déi 

credo nell’Uomo 


Amici, 
non chiedetemi di essere quello che non sono 
senza la mia corazza e le mie armi 


come Patroclo. 
(Antologia della pioggia 73) 


Il bagaglio della storia individuale, che qualifica il viaggio nella sua fisica 
gravezza, si é stratificato nel corpo del poeta, tracciando “profili di pioggia e 
ombre”; il dolore esperito é l’unica costante esistenziale, mentre la casualita 
degli anni della sua vicenda umana continua ad consolidarsi nelle immagini del 
fango e del pettirosso, estrinsecazioni di un percorso di solitaria opposizione. E 
la raffigurazione di un destino che non ha risparmiato la materia, di cui solo 
sono rimasti un volto e una identita, che tuttavia non é quella trasparente dal 
dato anagrafico, ma quella ben pili nascosta e sovversiva di una Voce. Del 
viaggio, esplorazione che trascende il semplice dato geografico, rimane la 
parola, unica salvezza contro l’estrema dissoluzione. La chiusa prospetta un 
futuro critico, conflittuale, esperito in solitudine, condizione sottolineata 
stilisticamente dall’assottigliarsi del dettato che va, con andamento discendente, 
dalla doppia quartina all’essenzialita dell’ultimo verso. 

L’ansia aurorale che traspare da questo lavoro si trasferisce al livello del 
vissuto nella raccolta successiva. In Ombra di cane i temi dello smarrimento e 
della morte dominano I’ orizzonte e lo confermano sia il titolo del volumetto che 
la dedica ‘“‘a me stesso, perduto”, impressa sul frontespizio. I versi si rarefanno, 
ma acquistano in incisivita e asprezza: 


394 Simona Wright 


Piango solo 
in questa stagione funebre 
piena di morti e fiori calpestati 
nel buio. 
(Ombra di cane 9) 


II mio corpo 
nato in un paese povero 
é un verso cieco 
senza memoria. 
(Ombra di cane 13) 


Come sono tristi 
queste citta 
con I’uomo morto 
dentro. 
(Ombra di cane 17) 


Ombra di cane raccoglie la prima fase dell’esperienza della migrazione e 
dell’esilio, che racchiude in sé l’allontanamento dalla terra natale e il difficile 
innesto nella nuova realta socio-culturale italiana. I] distacco e la lontananza 
colpiscono primariamente |’universo affettivo, nel quale si ¢ plasmata |’identita, 
mentre la terra di origine acquista i tratti di uno spazio sapienziale custode dei 
numi tutelari: la madre, la lingua materna, la natura, i morti illacrimati, i fiori 
calpestati dalla inesorabilita di un presente sempre uguale a se stesso. 

Il richiamo alla propria materia, nella seconda quartina, indica a qual punto 
sia giunta la dissoluzione dell’“io”. I] corpo, sentito nella sua umile fragilita, 
emblematizza |’inutile sforzo e la parola che da esso scaturisce soffre della sua 
pochezza, diviene incapace di esprimere il mondo, di trasfonderlo in esperienza 
poetica. Attraverso il corpo, sofferente e “senza memoria”, il poeta non pud che 
comunicare il proprio buio, la propria disperazione. L’uomo “morto dentro”, 
privato del corpo e della parola, viene siluettato sullo sfondo vuoto di un 
paesaggio cittadino, contrapposto al quale anch’esso diviene segno negativo, 
emblema di una assenza. Citta e uomo “morto dentro” sono gli estremi di un 
paesaggio sconfortante, nel quale destini diversi si incrociano senza mai sfiorarsi 
né confondersi. 

Versi questi nei quali si piange la desolazione del vivere quotidiano in un 
paese straniero, in cui le difficolta della coabitazione tra culture é simbolo di una 
ben pit tragica incomumicabilita umana. Momento di crisi e riflessione che 
porta necessariamente ad una fase di progettualita futura, che conferma una 
consapevole azione di resistenza liberata poeticamente nel volume successivo, 
Sassi contro vento. L’ opera é prefata da una interrogazione che ne costituisce il 
palinsesto “ci sono altre possibilita?” — che é nel contempo motivazione 
poetica ed epistemologica, un interrogarsi che raggiunge la compiutezza della 


Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 395 


forma nella parola scavata, nella sua solida e petrosa asprezza. La validita del 
progetto e la sua forte valenza etica vengono confermati dal profetico “nessun 
altro gesto é possibile”, posto in chiusa ad indicare la determinazione autorale a 
risemantizzare la poesia come gesto di resistenza contro il  buio 
dell’annichilimento: 


Ci perdiamo nella nebbia 

come i corpi nell’abisso del Tempo 

il cielo é chiuso di pietre 

non é il sole che brilla 

ma i marmi e la calce 

quelli che fuggono la neve 

parlano del fuoco 

poi ci accorgiamo 

che le tombe sono vuote 

senza ossa e nomi 

dietro gli alberi e le statue 

salgono ombre di sangue 

immagini di polvere 

qualcuno con impazienza 

chiede della prossima dimora. 
(Sassi contro vento 43) 


L’incalzare ritmico del verso e la tonalita data dal continuo contrasto tra la 
freddezza e il calore, tra il sole e il marmo, la neve e il fuoco, le statue e il 
sangue, da alla poesia una vibratilita nervosa, un continuo essere in bilico tra 
luce e buio, vita e morte. L’ incipit adombra un presente enigmatico, incerto, una 
umanita confusamente in cammino, abbagliata da miraggi, ingannata da 
ambigue voci oracolari. Contrastive sono in aggiunta le immagini della natura, il 
cielo, chiuso entro limiti di pietra, i raggi solari, sterile riflesso proiettato sulla 
materia. Ad una natura inanimata corrisponde un paesaggio umano in 
disfacimento, fatto di ombre e polvere; crollato ogni tempio, perduto ogni 
legame con la storia, all’uomo non rimane che constatare la propria instabilita, 
l’equilibrio precario che si stende tra un passato irrecuperabile e un futuro 
indefinibile. La “prossima dimora” é solo un obiettivo opinabile, mentre il 
presente si disfa nella complessita di un negativo assoluto, di uno spazio 
labirintico. Emblema di un non-luogo, la nebbia che assedia l’uomo é 
estrinsecazione di una condizione collettiva, quella dell’esule, costretto a 
condurre la propria esistenza in un tempo chiuso e abissale, abbagliato dal 
miraggio di una improbabile utopia: 


Partiamo di notte 

dimenticando che siamo ciechi 

per raggiungere un territorio nudo 
del quale ha bisogno la nostra voce 


396 Simona Wright 


andiamo al mare per parlare 
e lanciare sassi contro vento. 
(Sassi contro vento 49) 


Nella partenza notturna, clandestina e collettiva, si da forma all’archetipo di un 
viaggio di conoscenza e di liberta che pone come condizione fondamentale il 
rifiuto del luogo di origine, avvertito nella sua valenza negativa di travaglio e 
avversita. La ricerca di un altrove viene significata nell’orizzonte marino che 
acquista per il poeta il significato di una grande apertura, di una spinta 
esplorativa verso cid che é sconosciuto, ai una diaspora nel “diverso”. Il topos 
marino racchiude |’euforia dell’incontro paritetico tra civilta, lingue e culture; 
nel mare si celebra il molteplice, e dirigersi verso di esso diviene per il migrante 
la concretizzazione di un desiderio comunicativo, di una volonta di mescclarsi, 
fondersi e trasformarsi in “altro”. Mare esperito allora sia come luogo della 
perdita ma anche come possibile via di salvezza, spazio della pluralita e della 
differenza, ma anche luogo della creativita e della rinascita poetica. '° 

Al mare viene contrapposto l’approdo a un territorio nudo, potenziale; per 
Pesule e il migrante esso é il luogo della non appartenenza, dell’eterno 
nomadismo, un contesto storico e culturale indifferente alle istanze della sua 
parola ma che di essa tuttavia ha estrema necessita. Da qui il coraggioso e 
speranzoso gesto del poeta, quel suo gettare sassi, parole, contro vento; destino 
del migrante, perenne straniero agli altri e a se stesso, é tutto racchiuso in questo 
atto, nella esplicitazione di una esperienza straniante e straniata del reale, di una 
visione dal di fuori, da testimone scomodo ma illuminato. Essere straniero 
significa percid mettersi in gioco, essere consapevole di esprimere |’“altro” con 
una parola essenziale, perché portatrice di autentica sapienza: 


Egli/ella, loro, decidono, in forza della loro dignita [...] di giocarsi, di rischiare e 
avventurare la propria unica vita, senza assicurazioni e garanzie. Solo dal migrante [...] si 
pud venire a sapere che valore abbia oggi |’esistenza umana. II migrante, infatti, apre 
bocca dall’antro della sibilla piu povera, e continua a farlo lungo i crinali pit rischiosi e 
dai luoghi pil accostati alla sventura, all’umiliazione piu violenta, alla sparizione 
anonima e alla morte. Solo il migrante pud cantare il “caso umano” del nostro tempo con 
una lingua che possa essere tradotta in tutti 1 mondi. 

(Gnisci, La letteratura italiana 67) 


Nel 1999 esce Corpo presente, raccolta in cui la ricerca tematico-stilistica si 


'0 1) mare, in questo caso il Mediterraneo, é il “mondo delle civilta transcontinentali” che 
avvicina e confonde, in una fitta rete di scambi e mescolanze, la cultura orientale a quella 
occidentale. “Il Mediterraneo é un raduno meticcio, un ricettacolo di connubi e contrasti 
in cui la rete degli scambi ha prodotto un’esperienza multiforme e longeva di fusioni 
inestricabili e di differenze mantenute salve” (Gnisci 1998, 39-48). Sullo stesso 
argomento si veda anche Durisin e Gnisci (2000). 








Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 397 


coniuga a una tenace investigazione epistemologica. I] tessuto compositivo 
registra una fase di evoluzione che si stempera nella riflessivita del vivere in una 
cultura “altra”, scavato e interpretato con sofferta partecipazione; |’esperiena si 
gioca in un denso presente, nel quale la Voce, consapevole del proprio 
sradicamento e della propria marginalita, ¢ spinta a elaborare il suo percorso 
come pratica di resistenza e, nel contempo, a significarlo in una “poetica del 
sentire e della transitorieta” (Sinopoli, “Poetiche” 195). Hajdari esprime gia con 
il titolo la portata del suo itinerario esperienziale, oggettivando |’impeto della 
propria intuizione poetica ed esistenziale nella fisicita concentrata e 
prorompente del corpo, unica patria rimasta e estremo limite della conoscenza: 


Sono campana di mare 
di silenzi e voci 
chiuso nel Tempo 


e nessun Dio sente i suoni 
di acqua e di fuoco 
della mia carne 


In occidente 
ogni primavera che passa 
é ferita che si rinnova 


Ed io 

Scavato da ombre e pietre 
trascorro le notti italiane 
nel gorgoglio del sangue 


Da anni in ansia e paura di morire 


Ingannato dalle voci degli oracoli 
richiamo i volti conosciuti 
che non tornano (e mai torneranno!) 


Sterili sono i miei sogni 
nel buio della stanza sgombra e 


ogni giorno impazzisco un poco. 
(Corpo presente 17) 


Sacrale cassa di risonanza, la voce del poeta é pregna di echi e presenze 
memoriali salvifiche, familiari. Voce come estremo referente di una soggettivita 
essenzializzata, messaggio di una esperienza vissuta nel segno della sofferenza e 
accettata in ragione della sua traslazione in paradigma universale. Superstite ed 
eterno migrante, il poeta vive la sua condizione come necessaria, la sua pratica 


398 Simona Wright 


del dolore come indispensabile alla sua vocazione. Nel testo si ritrova il rapporto 
contrastivo, caro a Hajdari, tra un corpo dilavato e scavato dalla temperie, 
disumanato e pietrificato dal passato, e il corpo in cui scorre caldo il sangue, 
acqua e fuoco dell’anima, il tempo della potenzialita. Alla composita 
stratificazione dell’io poetico, fatta di fisicita e memoria, si contrappone una 
doppia valenza temporale: il tempo sigillato nella dolorosa ricorsivita delle notti 
e delle stagioni d’Occidente é il tempo dell’esistenza mortale, mentre il Tempo 
infinito, in cui il poeta riconosce la congiunzione tra umano e ultraumano, é 
quello dell’immortalita, dell’irraggiungibile felicita. L’aspirazione a trovare un 
nesso tra ’uomo e gli déi, e il suo fallimento, emblematizzato nell’ indifferenza 
delle divinita, imprigiona la voce e condanna |’io poetico a una disperante 
afonia. All’incipitale parola poetica che é vibrante “campana di mare” si 
contrappone, nella chiusa sorprendentemente negativa, la constatazione di un 
male dilagante, di un’angoscia esistenziale acuita dalla sterilita dei desideri e 
dalla vacuita del reale. 

La negativita non é una componente integrante dell’intuizione poetica, 
avverte Hajdari; essa si cela piuttosto nelle pieghe di un presente in cui si é 
perduto il senso dell’essere, in cui viene dato sempre meno spazio all’uomo, 
logorato dal buio di un estenuante conflitto che ha per unico scopo la 
sopraffazione. La paura e l’ansia, il riconoscimento della propria fragilita, 
scaturiscono dal confronto quotidiano con un mondo oggettivo che annichilisce 
Pindividuo, soffocandone la voce e calpestandone il corpo. Solo la parola, che 
vive nel gesto del poeta, nei suoi sassi tormentati, pud resistere e sopravvivere 
nell’impegno costante della ricerca, che é riconoscere e preservare, dal gelo 
dell’ inverno, cid che é incorruttibile, immortale: 


Tu esisti di fronte all’inverno 
come una ferita. Immobile e forestiera 
in uno spazio imperfetto, mai ospitale 
aspettando che il silenzio uniforme 
della sabbia ti parli del segreto. Non ti stordire 
dei fiumi vaganti e dei nuovi alberi 
che prima non c’erano. Dintorno 
continuera la caducita delle cose 
la scomparsa dei poeti 
che legano il cielo con la terra 
E detto che moriremo nelle terre opposte. 
I miei anni: fuga nell’ignoto e 
risvegli spaventati nelle notti. 
(Corpo presente 71) 


Suono che resiste alla morte, che si insinua e ferisce, abitatrice coraggiosa 
dell’esistenza, spazio imperfetto, la poesia vive del silenzio, in attesa di una 
illuminazione. Poesia che Hajdari oppone alla caducita delle cose, alla mortalita 


2 —eooeererererereoerereerererereeoooreorererereoereoererereree 





Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 399 


della carne, anche quella dei poeti; é infatti il loro destino di seguire i passi della 
parola, nei luoghi di confine, nelle terre inospitali, senza infanzia né memoria. 
Se la poesia é vita, il poeta non possiede che la sua tragica esistenza di ansie e 
spaventi, la sua quotidiana fragilita. Il verso sciolto, libero, si snoda nelle 
immagini familiari dell’universo hajdariano: l’inverno, la sabbia, i fiumi, gli 
alberi, il cielo, la terra, la notte, senhals di una natura umanizzata, nel bene e nel 
male, referenti nei quali si estrinseca e si perfeziona il senso dell’eterna erranza, 
destino affine al poeta. 

Una rinnovata consapevolezza umana emerge da questi versi, copulata ad 
una profonda comprensione dell’atto poetico come impegno, etica della 
sofferenza, vissuta giorno dopo giorno, con sacrificio: 


Sono la verita 

di un viaggio e di una linea d’Ombra 
custoditi sulla terra viva e chiusa 
che vuole nasconderci qualcosa 


vivo sospeso 
senza appartenere a nessuna dimora 
al bivio di un equilibrio 


ho camminato con passo lento 

fra i morti assetati 

per raggiungere |’ alba dell’indomani 
di incendi e tregue 


infinito che mi ospiti 
sono stanco del Tempo e del vuoto 


cosa é il mio frammento 
o il tuo frammento? 


La mia angoscia diventa orizzontale 
come la mia illusione 
sottile diventa anche il muro 
che mi difende e mi divide. 
(Corpo presente 87) 


L’essenza della poesia sta nel suo messaggio di verita e il poeta, che del 
messaggio é latore, deve divenire esso stesso verita incarnata, la sua presenza 
richiamo profetico, ammonimento; umanissima e fragile linea d’ombra, il poeta 
vive la sospensione, |’essere in bilico tra diverse culture, la sua saggezza gli 
deriva dall’incessante oscillare tra la certezza dell’infinito e la coscienza della 
propria frammentarieta. I] suo peregrinare doloroso, di morte e memoria, é il suo 
testamento vivente, poiché scavato nella carne. All’umanita, ingannata da una 


400 Simona Wright 


realta mendace, incagliata in un presente distratto e indifferente, il poeta offre il 
proprio corpo come ultima ed estrema sapienza. 

Nel nuovissimo Stigmate, che aggiunge nuova materia all’esperienza 
hajdariana, i versi incipitali rafforzano il discorso filosofico, poetico e umano 
delle opere precedenti. La perdita delle radici, il viaggio come archetipo dello 
scavo e della scoperta, l’aspro conflitto tra la propria identita e il nuovo contesto 
socio-culturale hanno formato il pellegrino, lo hanno educato a un perenne 
nomadismo. Il nomade, l’esiliato, non posseggono che la propria differenza, la 
propria umana essenzialita e insieme il coraggio e la dignita del viaggio, del suo 
continuo moto di trasformazione. Ed é@ con questa energia, consapevole ma 
piena di speranza che il poeta offre la sua parola. Lascito superfluo, tesoro 
inutile, come ricordava Montale, la poesia é la sola ricchezza dell’uomo povero, 
proiettata oggi nella figura del migrante, apparizione scomoda agli angoli delle 
strade cittadine. 

Distante, sconosciuto ed estraneo, il migrante disvela al mondo occidentale 
la sua ambigua civilta, la sua desolazione; come scrive Jean Pélégri, egli é 


celui dont I’esprit se proméne, c’est a dire quelqu’un qui réfléchit, médite, méme si sa 
réflexion peut paraitre curieuse pour les autres. Ce n’est pas un simple d’esprit. C’est plus 
au moins quelqu’un qui est en rapport avec les réalités que les autres ne voient pas. C’est 
un peu le voyant de Rimbaud, le medium, celui qui a un contact avec la nature que 
I’ homme ordinairement a perdu, surtout dans sa civilization industrielle. 

(Le banquet maghrebin 106) 


Hajdari, poeta della erranza, della differenza e della sofferenza, porta con sé 
la verita di un viaggio che é tutta compresa nel cammino:'! 


Lascio questi versi come un addio 
inghiottito dalla nudita della memoria 
sapendo che il mondo non ne ha bisogno 
Del mio saluto con la mano che trema 
git nel fondo stellato 

nessuno si accorge. 

Orizzonte precario 

mi appoggio alla tua acqua fredda 

e scavo la tua fronte di cielo oscuro 


abbandonato nella nebbia fitta 

non so da dove vengo e dove vado 

assedio nevi che mi assediano 

in balia di neri uccelli 

voglio sapere chi mi separa da una terra impazzita 
e che fine faranno la mia Ombra oltre I’acqua 


'' Si veda in proposito Memmi 47. 


Esperienza dell’esilio nella poesia di Gézim Hajdari 401 


la pioggia che cade nella pioggia 
e gli Déi fra gli alberi 


in fila accanto al freddo e al destino 
attendo che mi chiamino all’alba dalle pietre 
volti pallidi di voci arrochite 


il mio nome é una linea che divide 
la luce dall’oscurita 
il mio corpo misura tra la sabbia e il cielo. 
(Stigmate 21) 


The College of New Jersey 


Opere citate 


Aden, Mohamed. “Cultural Identity and Spacial Opportunism from a Postcolonial 
Perspective.” Allen and Russo 101-15. 

Allen, Beverly, and Mary Russo, eds. Revisioning Italy. National Identity and Global 
Culture. Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1997 

Bettini, Filippo, and Armando Gnisci. Dalle Ebridi a Malta. La giovane poesia d'Europa 
nel 1999. Dogliani: Sensibili alle Foglie, 2000. 

Bouchane, Mohamed. Chiamatemi Ali. Ed. Carla De Girolamo and Daniele Miccione. 
Milano: Leonardo, 1990. 

Carlini, Luciano, ed. La terra in faccia. Gli immigrati raccontano. Roma: Ediesse, 1991. 

Cavarero Adriana. Corpo in figure. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1995. 

. Nonostante Platone: figure femminili della filosofia antica. Milano: Editori 

Riuniti, 1990. 

Dal Lago, Alessandro, and Pier Aldo Rovatti. Elogio del pudore. Per un pensiero debole. 
Milano: Feltrinelli, 1989. 

Dombroski, Robert S. “Forward.” Annali d’italianistica 16 (1998): 11-14. 

Durisin, Dionyz, and Armando Gnisci. // Mediterraneo. Una rete interletteraria. Roma: 
Bulzoni, 2000. 

Gnisci, Armando. // rovescio del gioco. Roma: Sovera, 1993. 

. Creoli, meticci, migranti clandestini e ribelli. Roma: Meltemi, 1998. 

. La letteratura italiana della migrazione. Roma: Lilith, 1998. 

. “Africa e mondi.” Rivista italiana di letteratura comparata 13 (1999): 47-57. 

. Una storia diversa. Roma: Meltemi, 2001. 

Hajdari, Gézim. Ombra di cane. Frosinone: Dismisuratesti, 1993. 

. Sassi contro vento. Milano: Laboratorio delle Arti, 1995. 

. Erbamara. Frosinone: Dimension, 1996. 

. Pietre al confine. Ancona: Associazione Culturale “E-senza Metrica”, 1998. 

. Corpo presente. Tirana: Dritéro, 1999. 

. Antologia della pioggia. Santarcangelo di Romagna: Fara, 2000. 


a 








LL 


402 Simona Wright 


. Stigmate. Bari: Besa, 2002. 

Kafka, Franz. Das SchloB. New York: Schocken, 1946. 

Khouma, Pap. Jo, venditore di elefanti. Una vita per forza fra Parigi, Dakar e Milano. 
Ed. Oreste Pivetta. Milano: Garzanti, 1990. 

Kubati, Ron. Va e non torna. Bari: Besa, 2000. 

Lakhous, Amara. Le cimici e il pirata. Roma: Arlem, 1999. 

Maher, Vanessa. “Immigration and Social Identities.” /talian Cultural Studies. Ed. David 
Forgacs and Robert Lumley. New York: Oxford UP, 1996. 160-77. 

Melliti, Mohsen. Pantanella. Canto lungo la strada. Roma: Edizioni Lavoro, 1992. 

Memmi, Albert. Le banquet maghrebin. Ed. G. Toso Rodinis. Roma: Bulzoni, 1991. 

Methnani, Salah, and Mario Fortunato. /mmigrato. Roma: Theoria, 1990. 

Moussa, Saidou Ba, and P. A. Micheletti. La promessa di Hamadi. Novara: De Agostini. 
1995. 

Muraro, Luisa. L ’ordine simbolico della madre. Milano: Editori Riuniti, 1991. 

. Oltre l’uguaglianza: le radici femminili dell’autorita. Milano: Libreria delle 
donne, 1995. 

Parati, Graziella. “Italophone Voices.” Studi di Italianistica nell’Africa Australe/italian 
Studies in Southern Africa 8.2 (1995): 1-15. 

. “Strangers in Paradise: Foreigners and Shadows in Italian Literature.” Allen and 
Russo 169-90. 
, and Ben Lawton. J/talian Cultural Studies. Lafayette: Bordighera, 2000. 

Pélégri, Jean. Le banquet maghrebin. Ed. G. Toso Rodinis. Roma: Bulzoni, 1991. 

Ramzanali Fazel, Shirin. Lontano da Mogadiscio. Roma: Data News, 1994. 

Ruberto, Laura E. “Immigrants Speak. Italian Literature from the Border.” Forum 
Italicum 31.1 (1997): 127-44. 

Sangiorgi Roberta, and Alessandro Ramberti. Destini sospesi di volti in cammino. 
AA.VV. Santarcangelo di Romagna: Fara, 1998. 

Sinopoli, Franca. “Poetiche della migrazione nella letteratura contemporanea: il discorso 
autobiografico.” Miscellanea comparatistica. Semestrale del Dipartimento di 
Italianistica e Spettacolo dell’ Universita di Roma “La Sapienza” 7 (2001): 189-207. 

. “Mito e decolonizzazione della cultura europea.” Jmmagini riflesse. Studi sul 
moderno in letteratura. Ed. Maria Rosaria Olivieri. Roma: Bulzoni, 2000. 155-65. 
Vattimo, Gianni, and Pier Aldo Rovatti. // pensiero debole. Milano: Feltrinelli, 1983. 


Giancarlo Lombardi 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 
in Contemporary Italian Cinema and Theatre 


Massimo Carlotto, acclaimed author of several novels and a memoir, weaves 
within his own autobiography the many tales of several political refugees in 
Paris and Mexico City: 


Allinizio della mia latitanza non sapevo cosa significasse esattamente vivere da 
espatriati. Mi guardavo intorno e non capivo. Il primo lavoro che ho trovato era una 
collaborazione a una ricerca storica sull’esilio politico in Francia. In particolare mi era 
stato affidato il compito di reperire dati custoditi nell’Archivio nazionale analizzando la 
documentazione del Ministero dell’Interno. Leggendo quelle schede informative, i 
fascicoli personali e i rapporti di polizia riguardanti un secolo di rifugio politico, alla fine 
ho capito cos’era e mi ha fatto paura: un carcere a cielo aperto. 

(Carlotto 87) 


Published in 1994, // fuggiasco narrates the six years Carlotto spent hiding from 
justice.' While a fugitive in Paris, he comes in contact with a community of 
Italians seeking shelter from the law for crimes of a political nature. They call 
themselves militants of the armed struggle; in front of the Law, however, they 
are simply deemed terrorists. Theirs, and not Carlotto’s, is the political exile 
described in the opening quotation of my essay: uncommon refugees, Italian 
terrorists in Paris are kept under close scrutiny by French and Italian police 
alike. Their freedom is only apparent: by fleeing to Paris, they have chosen 
captivity in a prison that has no roof over its head; they have chosen to live in un 
carcere a cielo aperto. 

Shifting away from Carlotto’s autobiography, which only hints at this 
particular group of Italian exiles, my essay focuses exclusively on the portrayal 
of this community of terrorists in exile as presented in a group of fictional works 


' Corte d’Assise d’Appello and Corte di Cassazione, after several trials, found Carlotto 
guilty of the murder of a 25-year old student and eventually condemned him to eighteen 
years of imprisonment. To this very day, almost ten years after President Oscar Luigi 
Scalfaro graced him, this case is considered as one of the most controversial ever to be 
tried in Italy. Carlotto was indeed found guilty of a crime he had himself reported, having 
happened on the corpse of the dead student by accident. Arrived at the police station to 
accomplish his civic duty, he was immediately booked and accused of the young 
woman’s murder. Released after a first trial had found him innocent, Carlotto fled to 
Paris just as a second trial was about to prescribe anew his incarceration. He spent six 
years between Paris and Mexico City, and then returned to Italy, where he immediately 
returned to prison. In 1987, he was temporarily released for serious health problems, and 
five years later, in 1992, he was graced by President Scalfaro. 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


404 Giancarlo Lombardi 


produced over the past decade. Locus of abjection, land of apparent shelter and 
freedom, Paris is the maze in which former terrorists lose themselves while 
escaping justice. It is also the repository of unconfessed and unconfessable 
secrets. It is a place that ex-terrorists always contrast with the Italian cities and 
villages in which they were born; it is an abyss from whose depth they are 
granted blindness and vision: the same blindness and vision through which they 
form new perspectives on their past actions. 

In the pages that follow, I approach this issue gradually, moving from 
theory to practice, from the general to the particular. I begin by offering a 
theoretical framework informed by Jacques Derrida’s peculiar reading of exile 
and hospitality, as evidenced in one of his most recent works: Of Hospitality 
(French ed.: 1997; Engl. trans. 2000). Afterwards, a brief discussion of two 
recent novels that host a fleeting portrayal of terrorists in exile leads the way to 
the analyses of a play, a documentary, and a feature film where this issue is at 
the very heart of the actual narration. Signs of a time when the Italian Parliament 
was discussing the possibility of closing the book on terrorism through the 
passing of an indulto, Alessandro Trigona Occhipinti’s Segue comunicato 
(1999), Marco Turco’s Vite sospese (1996) and Vite in sospeso (1998) constitute 
three different formal approaches to the same topic. Occhipinti’s play portrays in 
no uncertain terms the remorse felt by a former terrorist who is contemplating 
the possibility of returning to Italy in order to collaborate with justice, and thus 
extinguish her outstanding debt with the Law. Turco’s Vite sospese is, instead, a 
documentary on the lives of four former terrorists who have been living in Paris 
for almost twenty years, while Vite in sospeso, filmed by the same director two 
years later, is a fictional filmic adaptation of this same story. Taken together, 
and analyzed through the theoretical filter offered by Derrida’s writings, 
Occhipinti’s play and Turco’s documentary and feature-length film grant new 
perspective on the much debated querelle on the anni di piombo: those sixteen 
years (1969-1985) during which most terrorist attacks took place. 


Jacques Derrida’s Hospitality 
Questioning timely issues of legal and illegal immigration in Western Europe 
and France in particular, Jacques Derrida’s Of Hospitality stages a theoretical 
debate of particular relevance to a discussion of terrorists’ exile. The question of 
hospitality was indeed the focus of Jacques Derrida’s seminars at the Ecole des 
Hautes Etudes for several years, spurring a very interesting discussion on 
cosmopolitanism and refugee rights from which many influential publications 
have eventually seen the light.” 

At the heart of Derrida’s contribution to this important debate lies a 
controversial statement on the nature of hospitality. According to the French 


2 Most of Derrida’s recent work on these issues has been collected, in English translation, 
in Negotiations: Interventions and Interviews and Without Alibi. 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 405 


philosopher, true hospitality should be measured by its very limit, which cannot 
be but the most selfless embracement of a guest about whom nothing needs to be 
known. For true hospitality to take place, Derrida tells us, the host must forfeit 
the right to learn about the identity of the guest. What we have always defined 
hospitality is usually linked, in Derrida’s words, to an economic exchange 
system establishing the expectation of a future act of counter-hosting. When we 
provide hospitality to known guests, we are putting them in our own debt, thus 
defying the true meaning of a concept and a practice that should be above all 
forms of self-interest. The debate staged by Derrida in this essay, once again 
aimed at deconstructing apparently stable social practices of western social 
mores*, follows along lines previously adopted by the French thinker when he 
discussed the true nature of gifts. In Given Time (French ed.: 1991; Eng. trans.: 
1992), Derrida amply demonstrated that the only true gift is that which cannot 
be returned, quintessentially “aneconomic” because of its inability to participate 
in an economy of exchange. Time — an entity which, by definition, can never 
return — is thus the ultimate gift. Also, Derrida’s hospitality can be seen as 
another quintessential gift because of the selflessness it requires from the hosts, 
who in Levinasian fashion allow themselves to be taken hostages by a 
mysterious and potentially dangerous guest: 


Absolute hospitality requires that I open up my home and that I give not only to the 
foreigner (provided with a family name, with the social status of being a foreigner, etc.), 
but to the absolute, unknown, anonymous other, and that I give place to them, that I let 
them come, that I let them arrive, and take place in the place I offer them, without asking 
of them either reciprocity (entering into a pact) or even their names. 

(Of Hospitality 25) 


The question of the name — proper name, family name, patrionimic — is 
indeed quite central to Derrida’s discussion of hospitality, thus situating itself at 
the intersection between this philosophical debate and terrorism. The Derridean 
guest who requires absolute hospitality from his host has indeed given up his 
name when he staged the symbolic rebellion that took him away from his 
country of birth. For Derrida, this guest has renounced his name when, upon 
leaving his parents and his native country, he virtually accomplished the 
ultimate crime: parricide. It is because of this crime that Derrida symbolically 
likens all foreigners to Sophocles’s Oedipus: 


This is the fearful question, the revolutionary hypothesis of the Foreigner. He defends 
himself against the accusation of parricide by denial. He would not dream of defending 
himself against it if he did not feel deep down that really he is one, a parricide, virtually a 
parricide [...]. (Of Hospitality 7) 


> Derrida’s emphasis on the unselfish character of hospitality reminds the reader, most 
obviously, of Judeo-Christian practices and notions found in the Old and New Testament. 


406 Giancarlo Lombardi 


Guilty of engaging in the same generational battle staged by Italian 
terrorists against their symbolic fathers,’ the Derridean foreigner thus seeks 
asylum while refusing to tell his own name, that very name that symbolically 
linked him to a genealogy he has attempted to tear apart. Like the many 
terrorists who leave their own countries, Oedipus, the ultimate foreigner, 
chooses clandestinité as his last resort. In the passage that follows, Derrida 
describes Oedipus’s choice in terms that unequivocally liken the condition of the 
Sophoclean character to that of the many terrorists taking shelter in Paris: “A 
foreigner in a foreign land, Oedipus thus takes himself toward a place of hiding 
[clandestinité]. A sort of illegal [clandestin] immigrant, he will be concealed 
there in death: buried, interred, carried in secret in the night of a crypt” (103). A 
clandestine in a country that is not his own, the Derridean foreigner is 
condemned to a profound sense of displacement. He will suffer from a nostalgia 
that will accompany him to his grave: “Displaced persons, exiles, those who are 
deported, expelled, rootless, nomads, all share two sources of sighs, two 
nostalgias: their dead ones and their language” (87). Partaking of that same 
destiny, the terrorists who have left their country are often portrayed voicing 
these same concerns, tightly linked to their inability ever to set foot again in 
Italy for the rest of their lives.° 


* For a detailed discussion of this issue, see my essay on “Virgil, Dante, Blade Runner, 
and Italian Terrorism.” 

* In another text, On Cosmopolitanism and Forgiveness, written in advocacy of the rights 
of the “sans-papier” — immigrants who were not allowed legal status by particularly 
stringent policies — Derrida traces back Paris’s traditional role as ville franche: a free 
city where asylum is granted in unconditional fashion. Questioning current immigration 
controls, Derrida recalls principles that hark back to the Enlightenment and the French 
Revolution, stating that hospitality is not just a right but a duty. He places due emphasis 
on the “considerable gap separating the great and generous principles of the right to 
asylum inherited from the Enlightenment thinkers and from the French Revolution and, 
on the other hand, the historical reality or the effective implementation of these 
principles” (11). Paris, Derrida seems to think, should acquire a leading role in 
welcoming “the foreigner in general, the immigrant, the exiled, the deported, the 
stateless, or the displaced person” (4), thus demonstrating to the entire nation-state the 
relevance of a gesture deeply rooted in the ethical responsibility towards the Other. 
“Hospitality” — Derrida says — “is culture itself and not simply one ethic amongst 
others. Insofar as it has to do with the ethos, that is, the residence, one’s home, the 
familiar place of dwelling, inasmuch as it is a manner of being there, the manner in which 
we relate to ourselves and to others, to others as our own or as foreigners, ethics is 
hospitality; ethics is so thoroughly coextensive with the experience of hospitality” (17). 
All these principles, however, need to be questioned when hospitality is granted to a 
person who has committed a crime. Political terrorists have long contested their status by 
claiming their participation in an armed struggle that defined them, thus, as soldiers in an 
underground civil war that had never been openly declared. On this ground they have 
often managed to win the sympathy of several French Leftist intellectuals: Guy Deleuze 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 407 


Portrait(s) of the Italian Terrorist as Parisian Exilé 

“Il romanzo é un frammento di storia che avrebbe potuto essere; la storia, un 
romanzo che si é svolto nella realta. Spesso il romanziere merita pid fede di 
quanta ne meritino i fatti.’ This epigraph, borrowed from André Gide’s Caves 
du Vatican (1922), opens Alberto Franceschini and Anna Samueli’s La borsa 
del Presidente: ritorno agli anni di piombo (1997), a novel which offers a 
complex interpretation of the many mysteries surrounding the kidnapping and 
murder of Aldo Moro.® Co-founder, with Renato Curcio, of the group that 
kidnapped Aldo Moro, Alberto Franceschini produced a suggestive roman a clé 
around an event of which he was only an indirect protagonist. It should indeed 
be remembered, in fact, that by the time Moro was kidnapped Franceschini was 
already in jail, where he would later disassociate himself from the actions of his 
group. One of the very first dissociati who collaborated with justice, eventually 
bringing about the very dissolution of the terrorist group, Franceschini in his 
novel points to Corrado Simioni and his Superclan (a group of terrorists escaped 
in Paris) as the masterminds behind Aldo Moro’s kidnapping.’ Because of the 
laissez-faire approach employed by the Italian Secret Service, Simioni and his 
cohort were apparently allowed to move freely between Rome and Paris. Not 
just a land of asylum, Franceschini’s Paris becomes a harbor of criminal 
intrigues. Thus evil comes from Ja ville des lumiéres, which seems to have 


and Félix Guattari established a long friendship with Toni Negri, the Italian intellectual 
considered to be one of the “cattivi maestri’” who most directly influenced terrorist 
activities. Differently from Negri, who returned from Paris in 1996 to be immediately 
imprisoned in Rome, several former members of the Left-wing terrorist groups fled to 
Paris after committing actual crimes. Negri was simply an ideologue, yet several of his 
partners in exile were actually guilty of murderous acts. One wonders, at this point, how 
and if Derrida’s unconditional hospitality should ever be granted to criminals who have 
fled justice, refashioning themselves as political exiles. Derrida himself, at the end of his 
essay on cosmopolitanism, admits that the Law of unconditional hospitality, if taken at its 
most simplistic word, could indeed be used in rather irresponsible fashion. As a founding 
principle of state policies on asylum rights, it should only be used to temper the 
xenophobic impulses of the current legislators: “It is a question of knowing how to 
transform and improve the law, and of knowing if this improvement is possible within an 
historical space which takes place between the Law of unconditional hospitality, offered 
a priori to every other, to all newcomers, whoever they may be, and the conditional laws 
of a right to hospitality, without which the unconditional Law of hospitality would be in 
danger of remaining a pious and irresponsible desire, without form and without potency, 
and of even being perverted at any moment” (22-23). 

® President of the Christian Democrat party, and promoter of the so-called historical 
compromise, Aldo Moro was kidnapped by the Red Brigades on March 16, 1978. After 
55 days of captivity, he was found dead on May 9 of the same year. 

7 Franceschini’s thesis was shared by Giorgio Galli, who discussed it at length in // 
partito armato. 


408 Giancarlo Lombardi 


dimmed its lights momentarily in order to become the dark other of Rome. 

Franceschini’s La borsa del Presidente and Vincenzo Mantovani’s // cattivo 
maestro (1997) share a similar emphasis, within their narration, on the violent 
death of Margherita Cagol, Renato Curcio’s wife. Still considered, to this day, 
one of the most controversial events in the brief history of the Red Brigades, 
Cagol’s death is described in both novels as the most traumatic event ever to be 
experienced by the first members of the Red Brigades. Portrayed as a loving 
partner to the protagonists of both novels, Margherita Cagol represents the 
absent center of these two narratives: her death terminates the protagonists’ 
involvement in the armed struggle, thus signifying the threshold of their 
disenfranchisement from the actions of the Red Brigades. While the protagonist 
of La borsa del Presidente, like Curcio and Franceschini himself, is 
apprehended soon after the death of his partner, the protagonist of // cattivo 
maestro flees to France, choosing Nice as his ultimate dwelling-place. The land 
of ultimate treachery in Franceschini’s novel, France assumes in // cattivo 
maestro very different overtones. Its relaxed, rarefied atmosphere seems to lull 
the protagonist into a state of prolonged apathy, from which he is shaken only 
after his past suddenly comes back to haunt him. 

Equally painful memories similar to those that bring back to life the 
protagonist of // cattivo maestro reawaken guilt and restlessness in Cecilia, 
“madre oggi, brigatista ieri,” the lead character in Segue comunicato, a play 
written by Alessandro Trigona Occhipinti in 1999. This time, history breaks into 
the fictional world imagined by the playwright through the news-report that 
announced the rebirth of the Red Brigades in 1999. History and story thus merge 
onstage as Cecilia, who had escaped to Paris after acting as jail keeper to Aldo 
Moro, experiences, upon hearing of Massimo D’Antona’s murder on Italian TV, 
the return of a past she had successfully managed to abscond. In re-telling 
Moro’s captivity, Occhipinti’s adds one rather peculiar twist to a tale told many 
times: the man held captive in the prigione del popolo is not a politician but an 
intellectual. And while some of this man’s most desperate pleas are borrowed 
from Aldo Moro’s tragic last letters, the long monologues that speak his distrust 
for the system reproduce verbatim some of Pier Paolo Pasolini’s most famous 
articles in // corriere della sera.* 

My analysis of Segue comunicato begins at its first threshold: all serious 
plays, Victor Hugo taught us, are indeed better understood when particular 
attention is paid to that brief document called preface. And yet, Occhipinti’s 
play, as delivered to me in unpublished manuscript form by a friend of the 
author, contains two prefaces: one composed by the jury that awarded it the 
“Premio teatrale Giuseppe Fava” in 1999, and the other penned by the author 


* It is worth noticing here that by the time Aldo Moro was kidnapped and subsequently 
killed, Pier Paolo Pasolini had already died. Pasolini’s articles written for // Corriere 
della Sera may be found in Scritti corsari. 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 409 


himself. The former, which I call the external preface, begins on a rather 
ominous tone: “Dobbiamo ancora comprendere come |’ideologia del terrorismo, 
che domino gli anni di piombo, riusci a coinvolgere intelligenze ed entusiasmi, 
slanci e contraddizioni, come fu strumentalizzata, come si ritorse sui suoi stessi 
protagonisti, divorando anche i suoi figli” (i). Dominated by an ideology whose 
mythological force has devoured its own creatures, terrorism is yet to be fully 
comprehended, a failure loaded with ominous consequences: “ [...] una societa 
che non sappia fare i conti con il proprio passato, compreso quello piu recente, si 
condanna al caos paralizzante o alla disintegrazione” (i). Understanding the 
frightening phenomenon of terrorism would thus enable our society to stave off 
chaos and disintegration. Arguably, texts such as Occhipinti’s play may help 
that same society achieve that understanding because of the play’s innate “utilita 
per il dibattito contemporaneo” (i). The play’s merit is thus to be located in its 
ability to foster a long postponed debate that is here symbolically staged 
between the two protagonists of Segue comunicato, a mother and her child. Like 
the Italian society at large, these characters have long avoided such discussion, 
and have now come to face it with the awareness that it will probably bring 
about the very disintegration of the family unit. The same ideology, originally 
represented as a father devouring its own children, eventually occasions the fatal 
rupture of the chord linking a mother to her son. The jury’s preface to 
Occhipinti’s play imagines indeed terrorism as an archetypal drama that is 
worthy of being analyzed alongside Derrida’s Oedipal re-figuring of the exile 
and the foreigner. Terrorism, through its driving ideology, is here seen as a 
Cronian figure: a father who devours his own children. When the father 
eventually dies, his surviving children are driven to exile. Decades later, in a 
rather perverse Shakespearean fashion, the ghost of that same cruel father 
separates the two protagonists of the play, a mother and her child. Placed against 
Derrida’s reading of exile, Occhipinti’s play thus portrays Cecilia as a refugee 
who is not a parricide, but a child who has survived the opposite crime, 
infanticide, at the hands of an infernal ideology. This child, however, is still to 
be seen as a criminal, regardless of the pity that seeps through the words of the 
preface. As much as we, the audience to this play, are asked to empathize with 
her past idealism and her present sense of remorse, we must never lose sight of 
her responsibilities before the Law. 

In the second, internal preface, authored by Occhipinti, two pages virtually 
set the stage for the events that soon begin to unfold in the play, briefly 
explaining the title and its semantic field of terrorist jargon. The title’s two 
words, Segue comunicato, were indeed the last words that would often be 
uttered during the phone calls of the rivendicazione through which a terrorist 
group declared its responsibility for a recent attack. As the threshold that ushers 
readers and viewers into the play, this title invites us to see the play itself as the 
comunicato that follows the announcement. The very content of the play, its 
scenes, and its dialogues thus come to stage, as a terrorist comunicato, the 


410 Giancarlo Lombardi 


motivations behind the attack and, in particular, its ideological raison d’étre. 
And in an age that has witnessed several fictional works on terrorism — one 
thinks of relatively successful films such as Mimmo Calopresti’s La seconda 
volta (1995) and Wilma Labate’s La mia generazione (1996) — Segue 
comunicato stands out as a play where terrorists finally speak their minds in a 
rather eloquent fashion. While La seconda volta and La mia generazione 
confined terrorists to a quasi-aphasic state, Segue comunicato succeeds in 
effectively portraying both sides of a rather urgent debate. It performs this task 
by opting for the flashback technique, juxtaposing the past and present life of a 
former terrorist, now the wife of a man who never truly questioned her past and 
the mother of a child who always believed her to be a “perseguitata politica” 
rather than a criminal. While the scenes taking place in the past portray her as a 
terrorist dealing with a prisoner she is about to shoot, the other scenes stage a 
harsh discussion between mother and son. At the heart of all scenes, however, 
lie long discussions about the meaning(lessness) of terrorism. 

A tale of many revelations, Segue comunicato contains, as its empty center, 
what Occhipinti calls in his preface 


Una voragine che divide l’oggi dal travaglio politico e sociale degli anni ’70. Una 
voragine di indiffernza che, forse, vale pit di qualsiasi altra condanna giudiziale, politica 
0 storica, ma che — crudelmente — finisce con |’ingoiare tutti i protagonisti degli anni di 
piombo: le vittime e i loro parenti, i magistrati, i poliziotti, le stesse istituzioni che 
combatterono il fenomeno eversivo e — ovviamente — !oro: i carnefici, i terroristi, gli 
assassini, le persone che presero le armi pensando di.... 


(ii) 


“I carnefici, i terroristi, gli assassini, le persone che presero le armi pensando 
di...”: four different ways of identifying the terrorist, of calling him/her into 
being. First, the author employs the term “carnefice,” the tormenting and 
tormented figure of the sadistic game between victim and victimizer so 
eloquently portrayed by Liliana Cavani in Portiere di notte (1974) and Mimmo 
Calopresti in La seconda volta (1995). Second, we encounter the more generic 
term “terrorista,” followed immediately by a term that simply reduces it to a 
mere “assassino.” That is what they all were, the outraged son tells his mother in 
one of the most dramatic moments of the play: “assassini,” brutal and ruthless 
murderers. It is the very last term, however, that delivers the punch-line, calling 
forth the extreme confusion that governed the actions of a lost generation of men 
and women: “le persone che presero le armi pensando di. . . .” And the ellipsis 
on which this passage terminates says everything through its aphasic lack of 
conclusion. What were these people thinking when they picked up their 
weapons? What did they think they could achieve? Occhipinti asks these 
questions of his characters, raising issues of accountability that need to be 
discussed, however, within a larger framework. Society at large indeed needs to 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 411 


be questioned, the same society that had chosen as one of its spokespersons the 
same intellectual whose voice was brutally silenced by the protagonist of the 
play. 

Simply called “Uomo,” our intellectual is tried and executed because of his 
function in society; no attention is paid to the fact that, when all is said and 
done, he is merely a man: everyman. Indeed, the most glaring mistake the Red 
Brigades ever committed, Occhipinti reminds us, was forgetting that their targets 
were still human beings and not mere functions. When the Red Brigades carried 
out their murderous acts, thinking that they were attacking the State at its heart 
by hitting those men invested in its most vital functions, all they killed were 
human beings. And, regardless of the many victims, those functions remained 
virtually untouched: other men replaced those who were killed, and the voices 
they were trying to silence became louder, acquiring the post-mortem aura of 
martyrdom. Uomo’s voice, through words once uttered by Pier Paolo Pasolini, 
indicts an entire society, guilty of acquiescing to a corrupt system.” Borrowed 
from Pasolini’s famous j’accuse published on the Corriere della sera of 
November 14, 1974, these words are indeed the very first lines spoken onstage. 
In his article, Pasolini accused the Italian Communist party for its silent 
approval of the corrupt practices of the Center Right, the same silent approval 
that would later lead to the so-called Historical Compromise. In the same letter, 
Pasolini advocated for himself the role of an intellectual, employing words that 
Occhipinti borrows for his Uomo: 


Io so perché sono un intellettuale, uno scrittore, che cerca di seguire tutto cid che 
succede, di immaginare tutto cid che non si sa o che si tace. Perché la ricostruzione della 
verita a proposito di cid che é successo in Italia dopo il 1968 non é poi cosi difficile. Sta 
dietro una grande quantita di interventi anche giornalistici e politici. Ora il problema é 
questo: i giornalisti e i politici, pur avendo forse delle prove e certamente degli indizi, 
non fanno i nomi. A chi, dunque compete fare questi nomi? A chi non solo ha il 
necessario coraggio, ma, insieme, non é compromesso nella pratica col potere e non ha, 
per definizione, nulla da perdere: cioé un intellettuale. Ma egli non ha né prove né indizi. 
Il potere ha escluso gli intellettuali liberi dalla possibilita di avere prove ed indizi. 


(4) 


® “Io so. Io so i nomi dei responsabili di quello che viene chiamato golpe. Io so i nomi dei 
responsabili della strage di Milano, di Brescia e di Bologna. Io so i nomi del vertice che 
ha manovrato sia i vecchi fascisti ideatori di golpes, sia i neofascisti autori delle prime 
stragi, sia infine gli ignoti autori materiali delle stragi pit’ recenti. Io so i nomi di coloro 
che, tra una messa e |’altra, hanno dato le disposizioni e assicurato la protezione politica e 
che stanno dietro ai tragici ragazzi che hanno scelto le suicide atrocita fasciste e ai 
malfattori comuni, siciliani o no, che si sono messi a disposizione, come killer e sicari. Io 
so tutti questi nomi e so tutti i fatti (attentati alle istituzioni e stragi) di cui si sono resi 
colpevoli. Io so. Ma non ho le prove. Non ho nemmeno indizi” (1). 


412 Giancarlo Lombardi 


Excluded by a power threatened by his inquisitive nature, seen as enemy by 
those extremists who still believe him to be an accomplice of a power he has 
denounced, Occhipinti’s Uomo is inevitably destined to an untimely demise. 
Held captive in the prigione del popolo, the intellectual is tried and found guilty 
of having spoken too much and too loud: “Un intellettuale” — another terrorist 
will say — “uno tra i pil: autorevoli commentatori e fustigatore dei costumi della 
societa consumistica borghese, é caduto prigioniero di una banda di pericolosi 
sovversivi. Colpirne uno per educarne cento” (9). As a left-wing intellectual, 
Uomo is guilty of having theorized where no theorization was allowed.'° Yet, in 
the people’s prison, the intellectual can only betray his human nature: in the 
hands of his captors, he is simply a man who fears for his life. And his fear, like 
the fear evidenced so clearly in Aldo Moro’s last letters, seeps through many of 
his interactions with the terrorists. Even when he defends his role as an 
intellectual, Uomo does so by reiterating that he is not, and will never be, a 
function; even as an intellectual, he is a free agent, and ultimately, a free man: 


Io non svolgo nessuna “funzione”. E non sono organico a nessun sistema. Tanto meno 
faccio parte di qualche complotto imperialista contro il proletariato. Sono un intellettuale 
che cerca di capire le situazioni, il mondo che ha intorno, di interpretarlo. E cerca di 
rimanere libero: premessa essenziale, per me, per poter dire veramente quello che penso. 
E che vedo. 


(18) 


Blessed with his desire and willingness to see and understand, Occhipinti’s 
intellectual manages to hold a large mirror in front of the terrorists who are 
about to execute him. At a certain point one of those terrorists, in a moment of 
sheer introspection, states, 


“Non esistono cattivi maestri. Esiste solo questa fottuta societa borghese, da cambiare, da 
combattere, da abbattere. E poi c’é l’ideologia: l’unico vero modo di interpretare la realta. 
No, non ci sono cattivi maestri. Forse é vero che siamo solo noi ad essere dei cattivi 
allievi.” 


Then our intellectual responds with his most piercing remark: 


“Troppi vi hanno lasciato fare. Vi hanno lasciato crescere. E vi hanno lasciato soli. Ad 


impazzire. Per meglio servirsi di voi.” 
(24) 


'0 “1 ui pensava, era convinto di spuntarla, di farla franca, di poter continuare a scrivere i 
suoi bei libri, i suoi articoli, a poter “pontificare” sulla lotta di classe, sul proletariato, e 
sui “compagni che sbagliano” senza doverne dare conto a nessuno. Adesso é finita. 
Anche lui si é trovato in trincea. E si rendera conto che la guerra é uguale per tutti. Anche 
per lui” (9). 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 413 


The responsibility of those hidden puppetteers already evoked in the opening 
speech thus returns at a most dramatic moment: terrorists — Uomo maintains — 
ultimately share accountability for their actions with those hidden powers that 
exploited them within the ruthless game of /a strategia della tensione. Providing 
Uomo with uncommon vision and courage, Occhipinti thus offers, through the 
character’s piercing words, a thesis central to the work of some of the most 
influential historians of terrorism. 

Back to the present, the scenes taking place in Paris — the external but 
signifying frame to events occurred much earlier — grant appropriate 
perspective to Cecilia’s story. Now a mother who is no longer militant, Cecilia 
is forced to admit to her son that all she did was ultimately worthless: ““Anch’io 
avevo una vita. Da costruire. Avevamo tutti una vita alla quale aggrapparci. 
L’abbiamo persa. Sprecata. Forse...” (34). Of all the terrorists I discuss, Cecilia 
is probably the one who is most tragically outspoken about the common 
bankruptcy of those values that drove an entire generation to embrace weapons 
against the system. Of all these terrorists depicted in films, documentaries, 
plays, and novels, Cecilia is the one who most strenuously declares her 
willingness to return to Italy, where she intends to collaborate with the judicial 
system in its last analysis of the anni di piombo. What makes her character 
particularly aware of such necessity is the return of repressed emotions and 
feelings, spurred at the very beginning of the play by the news of D’Antona’s 
murder. Voicing similar concerns to those raised in documented interviews by 
former terrorists, Cecilia firmly believes that the season of terrorism is over and 
that it can no longer be renewed.'' In her opinion, those who have chosen to sign 
their recent murderous actions with the effigy of the Red Brigades are impostors 
from whom all ought to distance themselves: “Il nostro impegno deve andare, da 
oggi, nel senso di chiudere con questa pratica e di dissuadere chi sta per 
impugnare le armi” (36). 

Placed at the very center of a play that constantly shifts from the present to 
the past, from Paris to Rome, Cecilia also lies at the virtual intersection of 
different languages. In the past, she is hit by the powerful rhetoric that 
strengthens the arguments leveled by Uomo against the uselessness of terrorism. 
As a response to those arguments, the confused and confusing rhetoric of the 
Red Brigades is spoken through the words of Massimo, who is always at 
Cecilia’s side when her faith in the armed struggle momentarily falters, 
becoming prey to the convincing words of the man they are holding prisoner. In 
the present, the difference in jargons is actually replaced by the coexistence of 
two different languages, Italian and French. Most of the time, when addressing 
her mother, Cecilia’s son speaks in French, and so does her husband in the few 


'' For a detailed discussion on the positions of historical leaders of the Red Brigades such 
as Mario Moretti, Prospero Gallinari, Piero Bertolazzi, and Barbara Balzerani, see their 
“Le Brigate Rosse? Un progetto improponibile” (// Manifesto 18 June 1999: 12-13). 


414 Giancarlo Lombardi 


scenes in which his presence is distantly evoked. And the two languages 
inevitably come to signify the distance that separates Cecilia from her new 
family, through which she has indeed failed to engender a true rebirth: the past 
is always there, waiting around the corner, signified through a language, Italian, 
that bespeaks her guilt and her perennial foreignness. In the new language, 
French, shared by her husband and son but never fully hers, Cecilia is eventually 
tried for her past actions: the only juror, her son Paolo, is implacable in his final 
decision. “Mi stai condannando” (32), she tells him as he reminds her that her 
past cruelty is not any milder than that of the Algerian fundamentalists who have 
ruthlessly spread terror in Paris during the past decade. When Cecilia attempts to 
justify her past actions invoking the presence of a historical contingence that 
necessitated such type of behavior, her son brutally reminds her that no situation 
of political emergency would ever justify such kind of violence: 


Cecilia: Tu non puoi paragonare un fenomeno complesso, articolato come quello 
dell’’estremismo”, in Italia, negli anni ’70, con quello che sta accadendo, oggi, in 
Algeria? 
Paolo: Quando ti ammazzano un padre, un marito, un figlio credi che si possano fare 
tante, troppe distinzioni? 

(32) 


Segue comunicato in fact ends anticipating two different journeys, one that 
brings Cecilia back to Italy, and the other that takes her son away from France 
and, forever, from her. Just as Cecilia’s exile comes to an end, so is her son’s 
exile about to begin: unable to shake off the weight of her mother’s sin, 
Cecilia’s son begins his own journey of self-expulsion. ““Abjecting” his mother 
while also abandoning his madre patria, Cecilia’s son carries, along his journey, 
the “secret wound” that, according to Julia Kristeva, “drives the foreigner to 
wondering” (5). 

Different in tone yet similar in scope, Vite sospese is a documentary, 
commissioned by Raitre for its series “Storie vere,” containing interviews with 
four former terrorists escaped to Paris: Livia Schiller, Andrea Morelli, Pino 
Mitrani, and Domenico DeFeo. Speaking directly to the camera, the four 
protagonists talk about their escape from Italy, their arrival in Paris, and their 
life in exile. Ever since the very beginning, the audience is alerted to the 
presence of a visual text that openly declares its perlocutionary force. Backdrop 
to the opening credit lines, appearing shortly after each terrorist has been briefly 
introduced to the screen, a series of images creates a forceful synergy when 
paired with the credit-lines they foreground.”” The title of the documentary and 


'2 In “Le peripezie della lettera,’ Eugeni stresses the importance of the opening credits, 
maintaining that “A livello pragmatico I’inizio del film e in particolare le sequenze dei 
titoli di testa, sono apparsi come il luogo di costruzione e posizionamento dello 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 415 


the name of the director appear against the image of a large graffiti, portraying a 
man on his knees while holding a white banner in the shape of a geometrical 
figure, a rhombus. As the image of a defeated man, holding the white flag as a 
request for truce, this graffiti acquires particular importance when we remember 
that the white rhombus used to be the logo of the Christian Democrat party, the 
Left-wing terrorism’s greatest enemy, and the primary representative of the 
political establishment. The Christian Democrats were most deeply affected by 
political terrorism, and were almost brought to their knees when President Moro 
was abducted and killed. They had their own revenge, however, when forces 
directed by a Christian Democrat government brought to justice most members 
of the Red Brigades, practically ending political terrorism. Fifteen years later, 
shortly before Turco began to shoot his documentary, that party was torn apart 
by its internal corruption, and its unforeseeable implosion disrupted the political 
system of the entire country, marking the passage from the First to the Second 
Republic. In light of these events, who then should be seen as the man on his 
knees? Is it the defeated terrorist or the representative of its political enemy? 
The viewers have very little time to ponder on this matter, as the fast editing 
takes them to another shot of Paris, portraying this time a chaotic and narrow 
street that could easily be placed elsewhere, in Morocco or Turkey. The street is 
one of those alleys where one could easily get lost or intentionally lose oneself. 
It is the place that most clearly defines Paris as the locus of escape, a land where 
former terrorists attempt to elude their own personal ghosts while escaping from 
justice. Mediterranean music, with rich Arabic overtones, accompanies the shot 
crediting photography. And once again, words and images come together in 
synergic fashion, this time evidencing the impossibility of charting, through 
photography, the whereabouts of these men and women. The same shot against 
which photography is credited can indeed be seen as a signifier of ultimate 
confusion: it portrays a crowded street where chaos inevitably undoes 
photography’s principal goal, that of bringing order, through a visual chart, to 
the world outside. The following shot, focusing on yet another graffiti placed 
alongside the one previously portrayed, acts as background to the last credit line, 
where the documentary’s editors are finally acknowledged. As the one element 
that most openly signifies the artificial nature of a genre founded on the 
representation of the real, editing assumes extreme relevance when the 
ideological tenets of a documentary are being questioned. Editing, in fact, 
evokes authorial presence even in genres like documentaries, where the camera 
should be most faithful to the objects it represents, and the eye/I that films 
should be nearly invisible. The presence of the director, motivating the choices 
of the editors, is indeed mostly felt at this stage. In Vite sospese, editing is 
credited against the image of a graffiti that reads, “Il faut se méfier des mots”: 





spettatore, con tutti i delicati meccanismi scopici, cognitivi, epistemici e patemici che una 
simile operazione comporta nel passaggio da una lettura a una visione” (5). 


416 Giancarlo Lombardi 


One needs to distrust words. An open invitation to question the images or the 
words of the former terrorists soon to be heard and seen, this graffiti forces 
viewers to reread even the shots that preceded it, clearly denouncing that no 
statement in this documentary, verbal or visual, can ever be “innocent.” 
Questions of innocence are thus raised at the formal level, within a discourse 
that has already seemed to dismiss such concerns at the level of content. Most 
shockingly, in fact, none of the four terrorists will ever discuss their innocence 
or guilt, nor will they ever question society’s forgiveness for their past misdeeds. 

If the juxtaposition of graffiti and editing is to be trusted, within an 
environment where viewers have already been exhorted not to be trustful, then 
close attention should be paid to the many components of the documentary, 
from its shot compositions to its arrangement of sequences. Keeping this 
statement in mind, I will now take a step back, and begin my analysis, as I did 
for Segue comunicato, at the beginning, with a close reading of the first few 
shots of the documentary. The opening credits have yet to roll as a shot of a 
Parisian street introduces viewers to Livia Schiller. In a voice-over, Schiller 
recites name, age, the terms of her conviction, and its motives: “My name is 
Livia Schiller, I am 41 years old, I was sentenced to 11 years of imprisonment 
for associazione sovversiva e partecipazione in banda armata.” The woman 
who should be serving 11 years in jail for terrorism is however seen walking 
freely down the streets of Paris. The corner she turns the first time she appears 
onscreen strongly connotes her present state. Now a respected psychologist, 
Schiller has begun a new life in Paris, away from the country where she is still 
wanted for crimes she once committed. From a distance, at the very end of the 
street she has just left behind, we can see a Parisian branch of the Banco di 
Roma. Of the four terrorists, Schiller is indeed the one who has most definitely 
gained greater distance from Italy. Later in the documentary, she will claim to 
feel no nostalgia for her native country. Viewers abandon her image as she 
descends the staircase of a subway station, thus beginning her symbolic descent 
into a dark past she is about to revisit in front of the camera. 

Another shot, another ex-terrorist: “My name is Andrea Morelli, I am 48 
years old, and I was sentenced to ten years of imprisonment for associazione 
sovversiva e partecipazione in banda armata,” recites the voice-over as a 
middle-aged man is seen approaching a newsstand, where he buys a newspaper 
he immediately opens. Viewers familiar with the history of left-wing terrorism 
might identify, at this point, a reference to Morelli’s previous involvement with 
the editorial board of Metropolis, an extremist magazine eventually disbanded 
by the Law. Even those who are unaware of Morelli’s history might notice 
immediately, however, that this man looks much older than he claims to be. 
Very few shots are necessary to establish that almost twenty years of exile have 
broken this man’s spirit. Differently from Schiller, Morelli declares immediately 
his desire to return home: “Quando tornero in Italia, dovrd affrontare un altro 
processo”. There are no ifs in Morelli’s mind, for he knows that sooner or later 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 417 


he will return to Italy, where he will meet his destiny. And while Schiller was 
seen turning a corner, Morelli speaks his intention to return to Italy while the 
camera portrays him slowly crossing a street, crossing the symbolic divide that 
currently separates him from his responsibilities and his place of origin. 

A quick cut takes viewers towards another encounter, this time with Pino 
Mitrani: “My name is Pino Mitrani, I am 43 years old, and I was convicted to 5 
years and 6 months for associazione sovversiva e costituzione di banda armata.” 
His words, differently from those uttered by Schiller and Morelli, are not said in 
a voice-over, but directly to the screen. Placed against the rails of a Parisian 
terrace, with the colorful roofs of the ville des lumiéres in the background, 
Mitrani begins his tale in a most direct fashion. Of the four protagonists of this 
documentary, he comes across as the most outspoken and also as the happiest 
one. The roofs of Paris act as appropriate background to the description of his 
flight to Paris that opens his long interview. His language is still that of a young 
communist militant of the Seventies: his speech is colored by unshaken idealism 
and optimism. The tale of his flight is presented in quasi-heroic terms, which he 
applies to himself and those friends who helped him along the way. Not simply 
the appropriate background to the heroic adventures narrated in Mitrani’s 
interview, the roofs of Paris also signify Mitrani’s idealism and his presumed 
lack of contact with the real world. Finally, “My name is Domenico DeFeo, I am 
48 years old, and I have been convicted to 6 years and 8 months for associazione 
sovversiva e partecipazione in banda armata,” says the last man presented in the 
documentary. Like Mitrani, he speaks directly to the camera; yet, unlike him, he 
is portrayed standing firmly on the ground, with the Arc de la Défense looming 
from a distance. A different Paris from the one perceived in previous interviews 
thus acts as the backdrop for DeFeo’s portrayal. A very nostalgic recollection of 
his last moments in Italy opens his interview, setting the tone for what he will 
say later. DeFeo comes across, in fact, as the most emotional person in this 
group: his words are often colored with the profound melancholia proper to 
those who have yet to process a personal loss. Six years after the event, DeFeo 
still mourns the disappearance of his child, abducted by his mother and taken 
away to Mexico. And the obsession that colors each and every word uttered by 
DeFeo appears to be perfectly synchronized with the alienating images of a 
postmodern neighborhood of Paris, where very little space seems to be left to the 
human dimension. 

As the opening credits begin to roll, viewers have thus become familiar with 
all four terrorists: their tales have begun and will continue to unfold in the three 
sections that follow, significantly named “La fuga,” “L’arrivo a Parigi,” and 
“L’esilio.” The director’s presence is indeed openly marked only by the shots 
indicating the titles of these three sections: Schiller, Morelli, Mitrani, and DeFeo 
always talk directly to the screen as if they were carrying out a long monologue. 
The interviewer’s questions are conveniently elided through editing. Such a 
device actually favors the immediacy of the contact between viewers and 


418 Giancarlo Lombardi 


protagonists, who are thus portrayed offering their confession to the audience. 
The unmediated presence of the ex-terrorist onscreen significantly heightens the 
impact of his/her confession on an audience that is subtly manipulated through 
camera movements and quasi-seamless editing. Camera shots, throughout the 
entire documentary, are usually at middle or close range: Schiller, Morelli, and 
Mitrani are usually portrayed through middle shots that gradually turn into 
close-ups as their tales become more dramatic. Domenico DeFeo, instead, is 
usually speaking to a camera that is framing him through close-ups that 
gradually become extreme close-ups. TV broadcasting usually adopts this 
procedure to help viewers empathize and sympathize with characters. In 
DeFeo’s case, such device becomes particularly optimal in charging his 
emotional tale with proper dramatic emphasis. His look of despair, so closely 
portrayed by the camera, reminds viewers of similar close-ups adopted in news 
broadcasting where the tears on the faces of the relatives of victims are an 
unmistakable marker of a tragedy whose exploitative reporting might eventually 
be a rating-grabber. And yet, one should not forget that close-ups and extreme 
close-ups are often reserved, in TV daytime and prime time drama, for villains. 
Extreme close-ups, in particular, often invite viewers to enter the devious mind 
of the villain while presenting a distorted view of his/her facial features that 
further strengthens a negative characterization. Within the three sections of Vite 
sospese, editing should also be questioned because of the frequent insertions of 
photographs from the four characters’ past. And just as childhood pictures act as 
unconscious promoters of their innocence, photos from the days of their 
involvement in the armed struggle often portray them as inhabitants of a 
different dimension. Dressed in quasi-hippy clothes, their faces arranged with 
outmoded hairdos, the four terrorists are thus shown in their extreme 
“difference,” which seems to favor excusing their irresponsible gestures. 
Forgive them, for they did not know what they were doing, these images seem to 
be saying, even though none of the four terrorists ever shows actual repentance 
for what they once did. If anything, they all act as if Italy had indeed wronged 
them in accusing them for actions they had been forced to accomplish in order to 
make the world a better place for the people around them. In discussing their 
past and their current exile with their children, both Schiller and DeFeo appear 
to have strongly minimized their involvement in criminal activities. Shot 
composition analysis becomes particularly appropriate for a close reading of 
Schiller’s discussion of this issue. When she tells viewers that her son knows 
that she was once caught in a situation where, metaphorically, weapons had 
fallen on her lap (“mi ero trovata in mano delle armi’”), the camera portrays from 
a distance a marble plaque that reads two of the founding principles of the 
French Revolution: “liberté and égalité.” The term freedom, in particular, 
remains appropriately onscreen for a longer period, symbolically stressing even 
further the restricted status of Schiller’s liberty while also placing indirect 
emphasis on the fact that she indeed embraced the armed struggle of her own 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 419 


free will. It is within this specific context that her statement “mi ero trovata in 
mano delle armi” becomes particularly problematic, denouncing her obvious 
attempt to escape agency, her inability to take responsibility for her past actions. 

Turco’s documentary appears most manipulative in its sympathetic 
portrayal of these four ex-terrorists when it discusses the role played by children 
in these people’s current lives. Schiller’s son is portrayed as her own sole 
concern and her only source of affection. Her loneliness becomes evident in a 
most dramatic fashion when, at the end of the documentary, she adopts the 
extreme terminology that belongs to the semantic field of terrorism in order to 
discuss her present state of mind: “La solitudine io la rivendico, la vivo.” Also, 
DeFeo’s son has clearly taken precedence in the former terrorist’s life: the 
drama of their separation (the son lives in Mexico with his mother) populates the 
father’s every thought, as also do the memories of their brief life together. It is 
to his son, in the very last words of the documentary, that he entrusts the hope 
for a better world, for a future where he hopes that his son will indeed be free to 
make his own life choices. By contrast, it is only in the very last section of the 
interview that Pino Mitrani starts talking about a little girl he and his wife have 
just adopted: as new parents, they seem to have gained new grounding and new 
reasons to remain in Paris for the rest of their lives. If ever an indulto were to be 
passed, Mitrani says, he would surely return to Rome, but only for a brief 
amount of time: Paris is and will always be his home. Finally, the only one 
without children, Morelli claims in terms similar to those adopted by Schiller 
that his loneliness is indeed a life-choice. Portrayed sitting by himself at a café, a 
baguette replacing, in his hand, what could have once been a weapon, Morelli 
says that his only source of happiness has been, during the past few years, the 
love of two children he has met in Paris. 

Once direct protagonists of a bloody battle against what they saw as an 
unjust paternalistic system that needed to be brought down, the four ex-terrorists 
interviewed by Turco try to show that, while in Paris, they have indeed changed 
their life quite radically. Rebel children who attempted symbolic parricide by 
attacking the State at its heart, they fled Italy seeking hospitality in a country 
that was proud of its tradition of asylum rights. Discussing her escape to Paris, 
Schiller says, “ero in Svizzera quando sentii Mitterand alla televisione che 
diceva ‘La France redeviendra terre d’asyle’ [...] il resto € storia.” Almost 
twenty years later, France still houses all four of them, allowing them unfairly, 
we might argue, to forget about their past as terrorists. The life they have rebuilt 
on the ruins they once caused, certainly still contains unfathomable gray areas; 
yet it is undoubtedly projected forward, towards a future signified by offsprings 
who, unlike the child of the protagonist of Segue comunicato, have yet to pass 
judgment on their parents’ criminal actions. 

Last but not least, filmed by the same director two years after Vite sospese, 
Vite in sospeso shares more than a similarity in title with the documentary. 
Marco Turco’s first full-length feature film relies heavily on the narratives 


420 Giancarlo Lombardi 


portrayed in Vite sospese, presenting a fuller fictional rendition of the same 
events depicted in the documentary. Inscribing his previous documentary, as 
well as himself as its director, at the very heart of this film, Turco narrates the 
story of a young Italian man, Jacopo, who goes to Paris to visit his half-brother, 
Dario, on the occasion of the latter’s wedding. Upon arriving in Paris with his 
father, Jacopo learns that Dario has been living in Paris for so many years not 
just because he had been an active supporter of a terrorist organization, but 
because he had actually killed a man. Shocked by this revelation, Jacopo decides 
to remain in Paris a little longer. During his stay in Paris, he gets to know his 
half-brother better, and, at the same time, he attempts to film a documentary for 
his TV station, conducting a series of interviews with his half-brother’s fellow 
refugees, all members of the same, unnamed, terrorist organization. Jacopo’s 
plan, initially accepted by his half-brother and his old friends, soon awakens the 
paranoid feelings of this particular community, which feels increasingly 
threatened by the presence of an outsider. As more and more former terrorists 
become convinced that Jacopo is working for the Italian police, the already 
precarious rapport between the two half-brothers suffers a dramatic blow: Dario 
invites Jacopo to leave his home and his life forever. By the end of the movie, 
however, the two finally reconcile, after a long discussion during which Dario 
confesses his tremendous guilt for his past misdeeds. 

Despite the evident similarities between documentary and feature film, I 
will resist reading the latter as a roman a clé, and searching for clues that would 
actually allow me to identify who, among the former terrorists originally 
interviewed by Turco in his documentary, lies behind the fictional characters 
presented in Vite in sospeso. Although one would like to keep the obvious 
resemblance clearly established between some of these characters lingering on," 
I believe it would be much more fruitful to investigate the aspects in which these 
two visual texts differ from one another. A detailed reading of the inscription of 
the author/director within the diegetic world of Vite in sospeso, while obviously 
intriguing, does not fall within the scope of my present analysis and will be 
taken up elsewhere. 

Differently from the protagonists of Vite sospese, the terrorists interviewed 
in the film discuss in lengthy details their involvement in the armed struggle. 
Both Dario and Eugenia, another Italian terrorist living in Paris, seem 
particularly guilt-stricken for the deaths they have caused. Like Cecilia in Segue 
comunicato, they ask themselves how they could possibly forget that their 


'3 Livia Schiller shares several traits with Eugenia, played by Isabella Ferrari: they are 
both doctors, and have children who frequently visit their fathers in Italy. Andrea Morelli 
reappears in two different characters, Maurizio and Giovanni. With Maurizio, he shares 
his immense loneliness and his great affection for his mother. Giovanni, instead, could 
remind viewers of Morelli because of their common involvement in the editoria di 
sinistra. 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 421 


targets were not mere functions but human beings. So, almost symbolic of the 
tragedy experienced during those years, Eugenia still remembers a hole in a 
sock, worn by the man she and Dario once killed. Of the same man, Dario 
remembers a passion for names beginning with M: both of his children had 
names that began with that letter. Because of that man, Dario now questions his 
own love for his family and his new home: like him before his death, he now 
possesses both, a family and a home. In the light of all this, both past and 
present, Dario simply cannot understand what possibly drove him to murder. 
The issue of being able but also unable to understand lies indeed at the very 
heart of Vite in sospeso: in this movie, the director seems particularly interested 
in having terrorists speak so that the audience can comprehend the motives that 
drove them to such extreme gestures. Much can be said about Turco’s previous 
documentary, but certainly it must be noticed that never, in any of the segments 
of the interviews portrayed onscreen, do Schiller, Morelli, Mitrani or DeFeo 
refer to their activity as militants of the armed struggle. Those same events that 
were intentionally glossed over in the documentary are at the very forefront of 
Turco’s full-length feature film, where Jacopo, the director, and through them 
the entire audience, loudly voice a desire to listen and understand. And much is 
indeed provided in the way of explanations, descriptions, and ideological 
commitments. Disillusion is, however, the strongest feeling that seems to 
possess most of these characters; like Cecilia in Segue comunicato, they all 
acknowledge the uselessness of their fight. Unlike her, however, they have yet 
to engage in one more fight, for they have yet to seek to justify their previous 
actions to their children. 

The opening sequence of Vite in sospeso seems to be heavily indebted to the 
cinematography of Vittorio De Sica and Luigi Comencini because of its skillful 
adoption of a child’s narrative vantage point. Like the young protagonists of / 
bambini ci guardano, Ladri di biciclette, Incompreso, and La storia, Dario’s 
little daughter is immediately established as one of two perspectival focuses of 
the entire film. As the movie begins, in fact, a hand-held camera inside a car, 
placed in the rear seat, shoots the arrival of a couple at a bistro. The singing 
voice of a little girl accompanies the very first shots, while in the front seats 
mother and father ask her to be silent. As they arrive at their destination, the 
camera exits from the car as Dario’s child, Olivia, welcomes her parents to the 
bistro where their wedding reception is about to be held. / bambini ci guardano 
is not a mere intertextual reference evoked by the pivotal presence of a child 
character: it is actually a thematic admonishment that accompanies the film 
throughout its duration. The invisible children of this group of refugees are 
never too far away from the screen: they often hide behind doors, listening to 
what their parents are saying, partaking of their fears without fully 
acknowledging their true nature and entity. The immediate bond established 
between Jacopo and Olivia, who met only at Dario’s wedding, ideally collapses 
together the two visual reverberators of Turco’s film. Being the only true outside 


422 Giancarlo Lombardi 


players in a game about which they know very little, Jacopo and Olivia offer 
spectators the only possibility of viewer identification. Through Jacopo and 
Olivia’s estranged eyes, and through their thirst for clarity and knowledge, the 
audience comes to discover and possibly understand Dario’s past life. Because 
of these characters’ love for Dario, the audience is eventually driven towards a 
state of empathy with Dario previously thought to be unlikely. The final 
embrace between the two half-brothers, shot in extreme close-ups of the teary 
faces of two men who have finally let down all defenses, is a classic tearjerker 
obviously aimed at manipulating the reaction of the audience. 

This analysis of Vite in sospeso will now bring me back to the beginning of 
this essay and to Derrida’s portrayal of exile as parricide. Having previously 
established connections between terrorism and parricide, as evidenced by the 
terrorist’s need to rebel against a patriarchal society guilty of suffocating the 
needs of a younger generation,“ I will limit my final remarks to an analysis of 
Turco’s rendition of this concept. Viewers have just seen Olivia celebrate her 
parents’ arrival at the bistro when a new sequence begins, taking them to a 
Parisian railway station, where Jacopo and his father Pietro have just arrived 
from Rome. Within seconds, striking contrasts are established between the two 
characters: much taller than his father, Jacopo immediately shows his naiveté 
and his good nature when he volunteers to help his father in carrying their heavy 
luggage. Unwilling to acknowledge the passage of time, Pietro refuses to 
relinquish the load, reasserting his stern supremacy by calling attention to his 
son’s impractical gestures. What begins almost as a comedy or a humorous 
vignette, however, soon acquires dramatic overtones once the pair arrives at 
their destination. Received by Dario with contained affection, Pietro and Jacopo 
soon betray their profound difference as they take opposite sides in their familial 
roles. While the half-brother cannot take his eyes away from an older sibling he 
always revered from a distance, the father is immediately portrayed in strong, 


'4 Accordingly, Renato Curcio comments, even if we are unwilling to agree with him, “II 
pregio delle rivoluzioni mancate é quello di non avere il difetto delle rivoluzioni riuscite: 
in qualche modo tutte le rivoluzioni riuscite hanno tradito le loro promesse, mentre quelle 
mancate possono tradire solo le analisi che le hanno mosse. D'altra parte, la generosita 
con cui una fetta della mia generazione si é gettata nella rischiosa avventura politico- 
ideologica rappresenta un valore positivo che, a un certo punto, dovra esserci 
riconosciuto. Voglio dirlo senza pudori: io oggi ho una grande pietas nei confronti di me 
stesso e della mia generazione sconfitta [...]. Nasce dalla constatazione che a me e alla 
mia generazione non é stato lasciato nessuno spazio per vivere quell'immaginario che 
portavamo con noi al momento del nostro ingresso nella societa. Non abbiamo potuto 
vivere nel modo in cui ci sarebbe piaciuto perché la generazione precedente ha 
brutalmente bloccato il nostro cammino chiedendoci di sacrificare la nostra differenza 0 
morire. Cosi alcuni sono morti con le armi in pugno, molti con |’eroina nelle vene, la 
maggioranza é vissuta ammazzando dentro di sé il suo desiderio di mutamento” (A viso 
aperto 212). 


“Parigi o cara”: Terrorism, Exile, and Escape 423 


antagonizing fashion. Shortly after greeting each other, Dario and Pietro are at 
each other’s throats, throwing in each other’s face mistakes committed long 
before. Pietro’s orthodox Communism and his faith in the rigor proper to the 
“costume di partito” have rendered him unable to provide love and 
understanding to his illegitimate child,'” while Dario’s necessity to rebel against 
a father who never loved him as a true son probably drove him towards the 
extreme Left. In a series of brief and harsh verbal exchanges, the personal 
history of these two characters is clearly laid out for the viewers, who witness 
Pietro’s return to Italy soon after he briefly collapses on the floor at his son’s 
wedding reception. Virtually and almost literally annihilated, Pietro thus 
abandons France after the wedding, and leaves his two sons behind. Like the 
Derridean foreigner, Dario is a vanquished warrior, conscious of having outlived 
an enemy, his own father, whose strong presence still lies deep inside his own 
self. Stranger to himself before being stranger to the country where he has now 
taken residence, Dario is seen asking himself the same questions that Jacopo 
asks in the documentary he has been filming: “Perdonarmi? Ma che ne so... 
prima dovrei capire, sentirmi diverso, mentre in fondo sono sempre lo stesso. Io 
sono stato capace di sparare a un uomo. Adesso lavoro e faccio figli. Come lui. 
Adesso non mi sognerei mai di farlo. Da piccoli, c’erano 1 buoni e i cattivi [...] 
tutto era chiaro [...] adesso é tutto un casino. Io non chiedo niente a nessuno. Ho 
paura. Ho paura di quello che dird a mia figlia [...] Non lo so che abbiamo 
dentro. Che @ successo? Che c’é successo?” Answering with more questions 
those questions that Jacopo had once raised, Dario is eventually silenced by his 
half-brother’s silent sign of affection, implying that, somehow, an understanding 
has indeed been reached. It is the understanding of a defeat, the tragic defeat of a 
generation that, through its irresponsible attack launched against its “fathers,” 
only disseminated devastation, anguish, and immense pain: a pain that does not 
die and follows even its perpetrators in the lands where they seek shelter from a 
sense of guilt that will not, and cannot, ever abandon them. This is the condition 
portrayed in this specific cinema and theater of exile, an exile where political 
reasons clash with legal questions that beg to be resolved. The protagonists of 
Segue comunicato, Vite sospese, and Vite in sospeso all share the same malaise, 
which is not simply to be understood as the nostalgia for an unreachable 
homeland. It is instead a malaise that springs from the awareness that, by 
choosing exile in order to avoid the Law, they have inevitably succumbed to a 
much deeper form of alienation and estrangement. 

The College of Staten Island/CUNY 


'S Early into the movie, viewers learn that Dario was Pietro’s son from a woman he never 
married and that Dario was never legally acknowledged as Pietro’s son. 


424 Giancarlo Lombardi 
Works Cited 


Calopresti, Mimmo, dir. La seconda volta. 1995. 
Carlotto, Massimo. II fuggiasco. Roma: e/o, 1994. 
Curcio, Renato, and Mario Scialoja. A viso aperto. Vita e memorie del fondatore delle 
BR. Milano: Mondadori, 1993. 
Derrida, Jacques. Given Time. 1991. Chicago: Chicago UP, 1992. 
. Negotiations: Interventions and Interviews, 1971-2001. Stanford: Stanford UP, 
2002 
. Of Hospitality. 1997. Stanford: Stanford UP, 2000. 
. On Cosmopolitanism and Forgiveness. 1997. London: Routledge, 2001. 
. Without Alibi. 2000. Stanford: Stanford UP, 2002. 
Eugeni, Ruggero. “Le peripezie della lettera.” Bianco & Nero 1-2 (2000): 2-10. 
Franceschini, Alberto, and Anna Samueli. La borsa del Presidente. Ritorno agli anni di 
piombo. Roma: Ediesse, 1997. 
Galli, Giorgio. // partito armato. Milano: Kaos, 1993. 
Kristeva, Julia. Strangers to Ourselves. 1988. New York: Columbia UP, 1991. 
Labate, Wilma, dir. La mia generazione. 1996 
Lombardi, Giancarlo. “Virgil, Dante, Blade Runner, and Italian Terrorism: The Concept 
of Pietas in La seconda volta and La mia generazione” Romance Languages Annual 
11 (2000): 191-96. 
Mantovani, Vincenzo. // cattivo maestro. Firenze: Giunti, 1997. 
Moretti, Mario, Prospero Gallinari, Piero Bertolazzi, and Barbara Balzerani. “Le Brigate 
Rosse? Un progetto improponibile” // Manifesto (18 June 1999): 12-13. 
Occhipinti, Alessandro Trigona. Segue comunicato. Unpublished manuscript, 1999. 
Pasolini, Pier Paolo. Scritti corsari. Milano: Garzanti, 1975. 
Turco, Marco, dir. Vite sospese. 1996. 
Turco, Marco, dir. Vite in sospeso. 1998. 


Anthony Cassell 





The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation: 
Monarchia 3:16.16-18 


When in 1318 the long-exiled Dante found himself again having to assert his 
opinions on the separation and correlation of the priestly and imperial powers in 
the Monarchia, he knew that he was entering a controversy that had simmered in 
different guises for centuries and one that had been directly to blame for his own 
banishment from his native city. In 1302 Boniface VIII had machinated to send 
Charles of Valois into Florence on the pretense of making peace between the 
Black and White factions of the Guelph party; instead Charles connived with the 
Blacks, while they plundered the property of the Whites and drove them into 
exile. Dante, probably stranded in Rome as urgent Florentine ambassador to the 
Holy See on the White’s behalf, was left in permanent proscription and exile. 
The Poet’s spiritual devotion to the Church as the Body of Christ was only to 
increase, while his anger at the corporate body of the sacerdotium whose 
shepherds had become “rapaci lupi” exacerbated and perpetuated his isolation 
from the holy things and places he most loved.! Foolhardy challengers to papal 
power ran the risk of Inquisition (Simonelli 303-21). But Dante’s refuge in 
Ghibelline territories where papal power was ineffective enabled him to speak 
more freely about Church doctrine. He could even adopt the stridency of a 
psalmist and the imprecations of a prophet in his political letters: those ardent 
and cutting encyclicals of outrage he hurled as rebuttals to papal decretals, 
imitating and exaggerating their tone and their dependence upon biblical 
citations. 

After 1316 the quarrels between scepter and tiara were to reach yet one 
more in a long series of deplorable and often bloody crises.2 Not only were 
“modern” hierocratic theorists arguing that the papacy had direct power and 
jurisdiction over the domain of temporal princes; but the Pope then reigning, 
John XXII, insisted, as had his recent predecessors, on a monist principle, that 
the papacy was the sole source and origin of temporal power, and that he, in 
fact, wielded imperial authority in the case of an imperial vacancy caused by the 
death or deposition of the emperor. On the other side, John Quidort of Paris, for 
example, in the Proem to his Tractatus de potestate regia et papali [A Tract on 
Royal and Papal Power] of 1302 defending the autonomy of the French King 


! This is one of the Poet’s insistent images, both implied (or sunken) and overt (as in 
Paradiso 9:132; 25:6; 27:55). 
2 Paradise 27: 58-59. See also Manselli 115-35. 


Annali d’Italianistica 20 (2002) 


426 Anthony Cassell 


Philip the Fair against Boniface VIII, sought to refute the opinion of “certain 
modern thinkers” about the claim to papal authority over temporalities: “opinio 
quorundam modernorum [...] ut asserant dominum papam in quantum est loco 
Christi in terris habere dominium in temporabilis bonis principum et baronum et 
cognitionem et iurisdictionem.”? Pope John XXII’s grab for worldly power 
immediately upon succession in 1316 crowned a consistent effort made by his 
predecessors to encroach ever more upon temporal control.4 

In the imperial election of 1314, during the two-year vacancy of the papacy, 
only six months after the death of Pope Clement V, the Bavarian candidate, 
Ludwig of Wittelsbach, had been one of two candidates ambiguously elected, 
receiving only five of the seven electors’ votes. Frederick the Fair of Austria had 
been supported by only two. Amid the official discord, both candidates had 
received their crowns in different venues as King of the Romans on November 
25, 1314. Two years later on August 7 the then-elderly canon lawyer Jacques de 
Duése or Deuse of Cahors was elected Pope John XXII and consecrated on 
September 5, 1316; emaciated, yet amazingly energetic and able, he swiftly 
asserted his own possession of imperial power early in 1317. John, who reigned 
for eighteen years until 1334, refused to recognize Ludwig under any 
circumstances, and especially in the wake of Ludwig’s victory over Frederick in 
1322 when the Austrian had become John XXII’s ally. Ludwig, who, at the Diet 
of Frankfurt in 1338, had his election twice declared legitimate and fully 
sufficient to make him emperor, was to die in 1347, unconsecrated and 
unapproved by any legitimately reigning pope. His split election remained the 
cause célébre of the first half of the fourteenth century until the identity and 
rights of the German Electors were formally set by Charles IV’s Golden Bull of 
1356, formulated to prevent a repetition of the rows, doubts and papal 
interference that the Pope’s accession had fomented after 1316. 


3 “the opinion of certain modern thinkers [...] that they assert that the lord Pope, 
inasmuch as he stands in the place of Christ on earth, has dominion, discretion and 
jurisdiction over the temporal goods of princes and barons” (174, Il. 4-8). See On Royal 
and Papal Power 2, trans. Monahan; trans. Watt 71. The term derived from the field of 
logic; “moderni” as opposed to “antiqui” distinguished ancient from contemporary 
thinkers. See also Heft. References are to the Monarchia, ed. Ricci; I reject Ricci, Kay, 
and Nardi’s numbering of the chapters of the Monarchia, returning to those 
conventionally used, with sixteen chapters in Book 3. References to the Commedia are 
from Petrocchi’s edition used by Singleton. All translations from the Monarchia are my 
own; my study, The Monarchia Controversy, including translations of the Monarchia, 
Vernani’s Reprobatio, and John XXII’s Si fratrum is forthcoming from the Catholic 
University of America Press. 

4 Mollat 96-98, 206. Salvatorelli 792. See Lucas 106-09; Miiller; Offler 21-47. Nine 
months after Pope John XXII’s death, at the Dominican Chapter held in Florence on 
September 8, 1335, the reading and study of the Commedia and of Dante’s minor works 
were forbidden to ecclesiastics. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 427 


Dante’s friend and patron, Can Grande della Scala of Verona, by daring to 
retain and insist upon his lifetime title of “Vicar to the Emperor” bestowed upon 
him by the late Emperor Henry VII of Luxembourg on March 7, 1311, was 
meanwhile boldly resisting Pope John’s prohibitions imposed by the Bull Si 
fratrum of late 1316 or 1317. The unusually haughty ring so typical of John’s 
collected decretals is amply recognizable in the following pertinent excerpt: 


We warn under penalty of excommunication all those singly and severally of whatever 
rank of preeminent dignity or status they may be — no matter that they glitter with 
patriarchal or whatever other superior or pontifical or royal dignity, or other whatsoever 
— who, after the Empire is left vacant, and without either our permission or that of the 
aforesaid [Holy] See, have retained, have assumed, or have resumed and retain — and 
who, assume, or resume, in certain cases, as imposters — the title of such vicariate or 
whatever other office, wherever, and, under cloak of such entitlement, have abused, are 
abusing or even might abuse any power and jurisdiction whatsoever or its public or 
private exercise, so that, as for the rest, they may also utterly abstain and totally desist 
from such entitlements or the assumption, resumption and retention of the aforesaid titles, 
and also from the use of the power and from the exercise of the aforesaid; we moreover 
restrain under the aforesaid penalty all patriarchs and prelates, singly and severally, and 
others of higher and lower rank, and kings, cities, communities, societies, captains, 
podesta, rectors, counts, viscounts, barons, and all others of whatsoever rank or status of 
dignity they may be, from receiving or granting audiences to those who retain such 
aforesaid titles in the said Empire, as we have set forth, or those who assume or resume 
any title under such entitlement or claim, and [we restrain them from receiving or 
granting audiences to] their procurators, commissioners, judges, or their lieutenants, 
under any farfetched excuse whatever, and from either abetting or serving any vicars or 
vicar or officials of the Empire, or from performing or permitting by such abetment or 
service, or in any way, or from lending aid, counsel, or favor to such person or persons in 
these matters.> 


5 My translation and emphasis. See the Latin text in Extravagantes Iohannis XXII, ed. 
Tarant 158-61; see also the version in Extravagantes Iohannis XXII, Titulus V 2:1211-12. 
John XXII issued Si fratrum (also entitled from another version, “In nostra et fratrum,”) 
on March 31, 1317 with the rubric, “Monitio quod vacante imperio nemo vicarii 
imperatoris nomen assumat.” On the theory that led up to Si fratrum, see Wilks’ chapter, 
“Papa est verus imperator,” 254-87. By swearing fealty to Ludwig’s rival, Frederick of 
Austria, Can Grande obtained a renewal of his vicariate on March 16, 1317, and, after 
breaking with him, continued to use variants of the title “Imperii Vicarius” in official 
documents and all political affairs. After Dante’s death he was finally to change his 
allegiance to Ludwig of Bavaria when expedient, and receive again from him his life’s 
title. See Dolcini’s bibliography of the historiography 9-117. The anonymous Summa 
parisiensis describes John XXII’s interference in imperial matters in “Der Anspruch des 
Papsttums, ” 168-286, esp. 247-63; and “Die Entstehungzeit” 30-34. Mollat recounts the 
exploitation John XXII made of his deciaration of the empire’s vacancy and his use of Si 
fratrum 80, et passim. Padoan (“Il vicariato cesareo” 164-65, and “La composizione della 
Monarchia” 7-27), Ricci (“La Monarchia” 70) and Imbach (in “Einleitung” to his edition 


428 Anthony Cassell 


While firing off repeated interdictions and anathemas against the Lord of 
Verona, John dispatched his choleric protégé and Legate, Cardinal Bertrand du 
Poujet, from Avignon on what was to become a declared and gory crusade by 
the Guelphs (the pro-Church party) against the Ghibellines (the pro-imperial 
forces) in Northern Italy. On April 6, 1318, John XXII declared the expiration of 
Can Grande’s office, warned him of excommunication and ordered him to 
present himself in Avignon; he repeated the excommunication on June 18, 1320 
as punishment for Can Grande’s persisting in his title. Frederick of Austria 
renewed the Lord of Verona’s vicariate in 1317, but their mutual disaffection 
had become public knowledge by May and June of 1320. In the face of all 


of the Monarchia 24) also ascribe the genesis of the Monarchia to Pope John XXII’s 
attempt to deprive Can Grande of his Imperial Vicarship. See Ferrante’s useful chapter, 
“Political Theory and Controversy” 3-43. See also Kay, “Introduction,” to Dante’s 
Monarchia xxVi-xxviii. 

© Padoan, “Il vicariato cesareo” 167-68, 171, 174. On “Guelphs and Ghibellines,” see 
Koenig’s entry in the Dictionary of the Middle Ages with useful bibliography. On du 
Poujet, see also Tabacco 192, 200, 206, 271, 283-87. Vicious, widespread rumors, 
believed by such luminaries as Giovanni Villani and Francesco Petrarca, that the Cardinal 
was actually the Pope’s bastard son only served, of course, to increase, not damage du 
Poujet’s princely authority in his successful military and political campaign to become 
Count of Romagna in 1332 (a title conferred by his putative earthly “Father’”). “[Papa 
Giovanni] sopra tutti i cardinali amava messer Beltramo del Poggetto cardinale d’Ostia 
suo nipote, ma per li pit si dicea piuvicamente ch’egli era suo figliuolo, ed in molte cose 
il somigliava,” wrote Villani 11:6; vol. 6 44; Petrarca wryly commented that the Cardinal 
of Ostia had his father’s same filthy temper (Liber sine nomine 17; Petrarch’s Book 
Without a Name 102). Du Poujet only narrowly failed in his attempt to move the papacy 
from Avignon to the newly constructed papal residence of La Galliera citadel in Bologna. 
His failure disappointed the Bolognese merchants and dashed the Curial ambitions of 
both locals and newly flocking immigrants, such as the careerist Friar Guido Vernani, 
who thus sycophantically backed the papal regime. Neither the astute Pope nor his 
ruthless Legate could foresee the sea-change by the spring of 1333, when it became 
public that du Poujet (with, as we now know, assistance from the Bolognese Chancellor 
Graziolo de’ Bambaglioli and the Chancellor’s secret Office of Spies), had formed an 
alliance with John I of Luxembourg, King of Bohemia. Italian Guelphs and Ghibellines, 
united and angered at the threat that the alliance would pose to both parties, met in 
Castelbado near Padua and agreed to establish a league to drive the foreign King John 
from Lombardy. Cardinal du Poujet was besieged by a furious Bolognese mob in his 
newly built papal citadel and only escaped from the city under the protection of 300 
Guelph horsemen urgently dispatched from Guelph Florence. La Galliera was razed. The 
Cardinal Legate’s career foreshadowed eerily that of Cesare Borgia, Duke Valentine, 
about two centuries later. One can wonder, too, how Dante could possibly have escaped 
the widespread rumors of du Poujet’s papal bastardy; the subject would give a most 
interesting twist to Monarchia 3:16.17, while not changing the reverent poet’s call for 
concord in the slightest. The Emperor, and not the nepotistic and ruthless upstart 
Cardinal-Legate, is the first and true Christian filius papae. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 429 


attacks, Can Grande, one of the three Ghibelline military principals on the 
peninsula, and the head of the Ghibelline league after 1318, remained 
unintimidated and grew ever more obdurate in the righteousness of his case. 
Dante, now making his home in Guido da Polenta’s Ravenna, came altruistically 
and idealistically to the aid of his former Veronese patron, applying his 
remarkable learning in theology, history, formal logic, and even canon law, to 
compose a publicist treatise tackling the question of papal interference in 
temporal affairs. Dante offered the resultant defense, embodied in the 
Monarchia, as an eye of calm reason amid the storm. 

In 1328, seven years after the Poet’s death, an obscure but impetuous 
Guelph notary from Rimini, a minor lector in law at the University of Bologna, 
Friar Guido Vernani O. P., entered the murky picture writing his acerbic 
Reprobatio Monarchiae compositae a Dante [Refutation of the Monarchia 
Composed by Dante] in 1329,’ dedicating it sarcastically to the distinguished 
Bolognese Chancellor and admiring commentator on the Commedia, Graziolo 
de’ Bambaglioli. Despite Vernani’s vehement and visceral rejection of Dante’s 
theories and his encouragement of the inquisitorial and arsonist bent of his 
fellow canon lawyers, the Friar was to spare unchallenged the concluding 
paragraphs of the Poet’s treatise, passing over them as unexceptionable. To 
many modern readers it has appeared very odd that Dante, after completing his 
fierce fight to toss the Guelphs from the arena of debate (his words) and to 
establish that the emperor received his authority from God directly and not 
second-hand through the papacy, should allow, late in his conclusion, that the 
Emperor may be, after all, “quodammodo” (“in a certain sense),” under 
(“subiaceat”) the Roman Pontiff and that an increase in imperial power should 
somehow flow from papal favor in return for the emperor’s show of filial piety: 


Et iam satis videor metam actigisse propositam. Enucleata nanque veritas est questionis 
illius qua querebatur utrum ad bene esse mundi necessarium esset Monarche offitium, ac 
illius qua querabatur an romanus populus de iure Imperium sibi asciverit, nec non illius 
ultime qua querebatur an Monarche auctoritas a Deo vel ab alio dependeret inmediate. 
Que quidem veritas ultime questionis non sic stricte recipienda est, ut romanus Princeps 
in aliquo romano Pontifici non subiaceat, cum mortalis ista felicitas quodammodo ad 
inmortalem felicitatem ordinetur. Illa igitur reverentia Cesar utatur ad Petrum qua 
primogenitus filius debet uti ad patrem; ut luce paterne gratie illustratus virtuosius orbem 
terre irradiet, cui ab Illo solo prefectus est, qui est omnium spiritualium et temporalium 
gubernator. 

(ed. Ricci 275)8 


7 See the text of the Reprobatio in Matteini. 

8 “And now I believe I have, all in all, reached the goal I set for myself, since I have pried 
out the kernel of truth of the problem under investigation: whether the office of monarch 
was necessary for the well-being of the world, and whether the Roman people 
appropriated the Empire de jure, not to speak of the last problem, whether the authority 


430 Anthony Cassell 


After his three books of racking polysyllogisms and serried poetical- 
historical precedents proving the separate divine origin and goals of the two 
world authorities, Dante’s concluding words appear at first glance almost too 
conciliatory and reactionary, almost as if another hand had penned them. Instead 
of satiating our expectant, vengeful appetites by hammering out a bold, partisan 
etiology of power, the Poet prescribes a bond or pact of loving relationship 
between pope and emperor. Since the clauses of Monarchia 3:16.16-18 have 
received a diversity of critical interpretations and suffered much 
incomprehension, they deserve a new and close reconsideration and 
contextualization. 

Omitting any mention of Saint Ambrose’s dominant theological exegesis of 
Genesis 1 of the sun-as-Christ shedding His light upon the moon-as-the-Church 
(“Luna est ecclesia”!),? but still vainly arguing against the high papalist- 
decretalists’ novel political analogy of the two “great lights” (with, in reverse, 
the Church-as-the-sun as the source of all light for a benighted Empire-as-an- 
inferior-moon), Dante builds his case, as he did in Monarchia 3:4.18, upon the 
accepted, contemporary, “scientific” belief that the moon had some light of its 
own, as was thought evident from the reddish glow during eclipses. In force here 
are the Poet’s earlier arguments on the distinction between the two “accidents” 
of holding the imperial or papal thrones: the relationship of the pope toward the 
emperor involves not political dominion but personal fathership (Monarchia 
3:12.4 and 6), and consists in the paternal blessing upon a son in full majority.!° 


of the monarch depended directly upon God or upon someone else. The truth of the last, 
of course, must not be understood so strictly that the Roman prince is not in a certain 
sense [quodammodo] under the Roman Pontiff, since the happiness of this mortal life is 
in some way ordered toward eternal happiness. Therefore, let Caesar show Peter that 
reverence that a first-born son should show his father, so that, illuminated by the light of 
paternal grace, he may enlighten the globe of the earth more powerfully, for he presides 
over it solely by way of Him who is the Ruler of all things temporal and spiritual” (my 
emphases and translation). 

9 Saint Ambrose’s allegorization in Hexaemeron 4:8.32 ({78]; PL 14:203-06; Hexameron 
56) became the dominant exegesis of the Church: “Luna est ecclesia.” St. Augustine 
follows Ambrose closely in his Expositions on the Psalms, where, for example, on Ps. 
8:4, he promises to show the reasoned suitability behind the moon’s signifying the 
Church, Enarratio in Psalmum 8:9 (PL 36:112; Expositions on the Book of Psalms 30). 
The Fathers and Doctors of the Church were to follow this orthodox gloss without 
exception for centuries; however, after the appearance of the new interpretation of the 
“sun as the church” among southern English clerics in 1188 and Innocent III’s use of this 
novelty from Canterbury ten years later in his early bulls of 1198, papalist lawyers 
thereafter merely passed over Saint Ambrose’s formerly unique and traditional gloss in 
silence as if it were their guilty secret. See my forthcoming article in Dante Studies, 
“Luna est Ecclesia: Dante and the ‘Two Great Lights.’” 

10 The very holding of certain offices conferred majority. Regardless of his own years of 
age or any official age of maturity, when a boy became a bishop (despite the canonical 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 431 


The Poet likewise limits the emperor’s due and fitting reverence toward the pope 
in turn to that rendered by a mature first-born son to his father.!! While the 
emperor’s own God-given power is itself quite self-sufficient for his own 
temporal jurisdiction, the world monarch gives reverence in exchange for 
fatherly, papal grace and favor that may allow him even greater effectiveness in 
the exercise of his task. Although for Tolomeo da Lucca, Prior of Santa Maria 
Novella in Florence, and for other hierocratic thinkers, reverentia was 
characteristic of the emperor’s inferiority under the pope, for Dante, the 
principle of a separation of competencies in various fields of interest — for 
which he had argued at length in the Convivio in a different application — 
remained of the essence.!2 Only God elects the Emperor, “solus ipse confirmat, 


age requirement of thirty), for example, he assumed full majority and became exempt 
from patria potestas (as Innocent III notably affirms in the Bull Per venerabilem); in 
canon law, kings ranked as equal to bishops. Thus it does not need to be emphasized that 
the father-and-son relation here is that between mature, independent adults. Concerning 
the grace from the pope’s blessing, indicating papal spiritual superiority, see below. Like 
John of Paris, his contemporary, Dante never steps beyond orthodoxy to denigrate the 
pope’s authority in spiritualia. See John of Paris, On Royal and Papal Power, trans. 
Watt, ch. 18, 190-93. 

'! Tolomeo da Lucca, Prior of Santa Maria Novella, in fact cites the decretals, apparently 
from memory, that the pope is to the emperor as a master to a pupil, as a father to a son: 
“Ponuntur autem in dicta distinctione Decreti tres comparationes imperatoris ad papam, 
per quas haberi potest, summum pontificem imperatori preferri et esse superiorem. 
Dicitur enim ibi sic se habere papam ad ipsum sicut magistratum ad discipulum et sicut 
patrem ad filium ....” (Determinatio cap. 3, 8; my emphasis). The reverence of son to 
father occurs more than once as a pattern in Dante’s works. We recall that in the presence 
of “la cara immagine paterna,” Brunetto Latini, on the burning plain of the sodomites, 
Dante the Wayfarer “’] capo chino / tenea com’uom che reverente vada” (Jnf. 15:44-45); 
and when he suddenly sees Cato, the guardian of Ante-Purgatory, standing next to him, 
the Poet describes the sage as “an old man, alone, worthy of such reverence as any boy- 
child owes a father”: “Vidi presso di me un veglio solo, / degno di tanta reverenza in 
vista, / che pit’ non dee a padre alcun figliuolo” (Purg. 1:31-33). 

12 Earlier Dante had clearly articulated this kind of distinction, albeit not between the 
papacy and the empire, but, somewhat too brashly, between imperial rule and moral 
philosophy in Conv. 4:6. Ironically, Dante had there erroneously attributed Aristotle’s 
definition of nobility (“antica possession d’avere / con reggimenti belli”) as an original 
thought to Frederic II of Hohenstaufen, and was undertaking to find logical grounds upon 
which to disagree with “the last Emperor.” Dante’s earlier error, however, does not vitiate 
the arguments on his ideas of the separation of the spheres of competence or authority, 
but rather can enlighten us concerning his pattern of thought in the Monarchia. 
According to Conv. 4:9.15, in a question of philosophy and not governance, even he, the 
humble Florentine, Dante, may have an opinion superior to the Emperor Frederic II: “si 
come diffinire giovinezza e gentilezza, sovra le quali nullo imperiale giudicio é da 
consentire, in quanto elli é imperatore” (635-36). In Convivio 4:8.11, Dante had 
expounded his earlier views on reverence: “Dico che reverenza non é altro che 


432 Anthony Cassell 


cum superiorem non habeat. Ex quo haberi potest ulterius quod nec isti qui 
nunc, nec alii cuiuscunque modi dicti fuerint ‘electores,’ sic dicendi sunt: quin 
potius ‘denuntiatores divine providentie’ sunt habendi.”!3 The offices of the 
temporal and spiritual, however, although separate and distinct one from the 
other in origin, must, after their divine establishment, mutually favor each other 
upon earth in love and cooperation as they guide toward their respective goals.!4 
Such reciprocal support and charity are the opposite of the interference, 
hindrance and destructiveness that continued to mar their contemporary 
relations. Dante’s close dependence upon the dualist doctrine of Uguccione da 
Pisa as re-expressed by the radical French monarchist John of Paris is obvious: 


Nam propter duo voluit Deus istas potestates esse distinctas re et subiecto, ut non essent 
in eadem unaque persona secundum primarium auctoritatem. Unum est ut, propter 
mutuam indigentiam et subministrationem membrorum ecclesie, dilectio et caritas 
foveretur sine qua membra ecclesie non vivunt, dum princeps indiget sacerdote in 
spiritualibus, e converso in temporalibus, quod non esset si unus utrumque haberet.!> 


confessione di debita subiezione per manifesto segno. E veduto questo, da distinguere é 
intra loro ‘inreverente’ [e ‘non reverente’. Lo inreverente] dice privazione, lo non 
reverente dice negazione. E perd la inreverenza é disconfessare la debita subiezione, per 
manifesto segno, dico, e la non reverenza é negare la debita subiezione.” The key word is 
debita (“due” or “fitting”), for besides the important fact that “Frederic” is not following 
the truth, he, in so far as he functions as emperor and not as a philosopher, is not properly 
deserving of reverence in regard to philosophical definitions, holding as he does a sphere 
of authority outside such matters. Thus, not to give Frederick reverence in this question, 
which it is not owed or due, is not “irreverence,” for no reverence in the matter is 
required. For a typical, hierocratic view of the Emperor’s subordination to the Pope, see 
Tolomeo da Lucca, cap. 3, ed. Krammer 8-9; on reverentia, see Vinay 18-19. 

!3 “God alone elects, He alone confirms, since He has no superior. From this we may 
gather further that neither those who are nowadays, nor others who may in any way have 
been called “electors,” should be given that name. They should be called, rather, “heralds 
of divine providence” (Monarchia 3:16.13, ed. Ricci 274-75). I do not adopt Ricci’s 
numbering of paragraphs in the third book and prefer the more conventional 16-chapter 
system. 

'4 Di Giannatale stresses the theme of mutual aid (317-21) against the pro-high-papalist 
interpretations of Maccarrone in “II terzo libro” 42-53, and in “Papato e impero” 304-18. 
'5 “God wanted there to be two powers not only distinct in themselves but also by the 
subject in which they are found, that they should not be held by one and the same person, 
as the primary authority. First, so long as the prince needs the priest for spiritual affairs 
and the priest the prince for temporal affairs, that Jove and charity without which 
members of the Church cannot live will be promoted through the need of these members 
one for another and their mutual support. This could not happen if one person held both 
powers.” (My emphasis). [John of Paris] Jean Quidort de Paris, De potestate regia et 
papali 1:10, ed. J. Leclerq in L’ecclésiologie 173-260, here 196; On Royal and Papal 
Power 1:10, trans. Watt 118. The idea that the popes could interfere “causaliter” 
(“occasionally”) had much force and influence, even to its acceptance by the opposing 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 433 


In the light of such teaching, we can comprehend that Dante writes to 
restore a functional balance of mutuality between the two powers. It is far from 
his mind in writing the Monarchia to demonstrate an extreme Ghibelline 
superiority or precedence of the Empire over the Papacy: the two powers are 
coordinates; both are necessary; neither must eclipse the other.!® Putting 
memories of his personal suffering aside, Dante frees his mature thought to rise 
nobly in search of effective relationships of peace and cooperation. 

To understand the Poet’s position fully, we must distinguish philosophically 
late medieval concepts of separation from concepts of superiority. Absolutely no 
thinker of Dante’s time — and certainly not even the notorious and 
anathematized Marsiglio of Padua — could have denied, and neither would 
Dante deny, the religious and philosophical preeminence of spirit over matter, of 
soul over body, of the transcendent over the immanent, and, thus, of the spiritual 
over the temporal, or ever deny that there is a spiritual ultimate end of man 
beyond any temporal or temporary goal.!? Dante had built his whole Commedia 


camps; Kay points to John of Paris’s 1302 consideration of permissible “conditional and 
incidental” interference and the sanctions possible between the two powers (De potestate 
regia et papali, cap. XIII), considering it “problematic” (Mon., ed. Kay 324-25n35). The 
idea of permitting any form of interference is a subject that Dante does not enter into, let 
alone in detail; the Monarchia argues against all papal abuses of intervention; the 
question of the imperial vicarships of 1318 was an entirely temporal, political matter and 
all papal participation a vicious intrusion. I agree with Nardi in rejecting Maccarrone’s 
untenable belief that Dante would permit some kind of papal “influence of spiritual 
authority over secular in quanto tale in the development of its temporal duty”—that is, of 
some anachronistic “potestas indirecta” in temporal affairs (a formula, after all, 
developed by Cardinal Bellarmine three centuries later). Maccarrone even went so far as 
to compare Dante’s formula with that set forth by the great Spanish Dominican 
theologian Juan de Torquemada (1388-1468) [not Tomas of the Spanish Inquisition, 
1420-1498!] in his Summa de ecclesia (publ. 1489), which, while attenuating the pope’s 
temporal power, vehemently defended the infallibility and spiritual plenitude of the pope, 
stating that he indeed had power and jurisdiction “aliquo modo” (“in a certain way”) in 
temporal affairs (“II terzo libro” 136-37). While Nardi (Dal Convivio 204, 311-12), in his 
typical intemperate style, rejects Maccarrone’s views, Nardi in turn, however, minimizes 
the greater power and effectiveness that the pope’s blessing conveys upon the emperor in 
Dante’s concept, ignoring the full import of the example of Justinian in the Commedia. 

16 Such mutuality was recognized even by severe hierocrats. James of Viterbo interprets 
the Donation of Constantine as such an example with the oddest corollary: “In another 
way we can say that this grant was an act of co-operation or ministry, to the end that the 
power which the Vicar of Christ has by divine law might be exercised more freely in 
point of fact; for the persecution of tyrants was not possible before the time of 
Constantine” (De regimine christiano, ch. 8; On Christian Government 119). 

'7 Marsiglio exalted the superiority of the universitas fidelium, the body of all the 
faithful, over the sacerdotium in all aspects of religion; but he never denied the relative 


434 Anthony Cassell 


on that hierarchical premise. Even the anonymous treatise of 1302, the Quaestio 
in utramque partem [For and Against Pontifical Power], written, like John of 
Paris’s On Royal and Papal Power, in fierce defense of the separation of 
temporal and spiritual powers philosophically and practically, and particularly of 
Philip the Fair’s regal autonomy, had to re-affirm that very idea: 


Respondeo: dicendum est quod, sicut temporalia sunt propter corpus, et corpus [est] 
propter animam, ita quod haec omnia inferiora debent ad bonum animae ordinari, aliter 
non recte uteretur homo temporalibus, sed potius abuteretur, sic potestas temporalis 
quodammodo ordinatur as spiritualem in iis quae ad ipsam spiritualitatem pertinent, id 
est, in spiritualibus. Et per istum modum multitudo reducitur ad unitatem.!8 


Lorenzo Minio-Paluello noted in 1955 that there were no grounds for 
assuming that the wording “quodammodo” of the Quaestio was specious or 
apocryphal. We likewise would have no reason to think either that the three 
attenuations of the Monarchia 3:16.17, repeated first as “non sic stricte” (“not so 
strictly”), then in a periphratic synonym, “in aliquo” (“in a certain sense’’), and 
finally echoed directly, “quodammodo,” in the treatise’s last paragraph, was an 
afterthought, or even that it was some later scribe’s interpolation intended to 
release Dante’s treatise from the ban and public burning imposed upon it by the 
Cardinal-Legate du Poujet and his agents in Bologna in 1328.!9 Michele 
Maccarrone, in the same year, showed independently that such “quodammodo” 
attenuations went back a least to the first half of the thirteenth century, decades 
before the controversy concerning Boniface and Philip the Fair, and, thus, 
certainly before John XXII’s refusal to recognize either Frederick of Austria or 
Ludwig of Wittelsbach as emperor. 

Evidence of the earlier voices that Dante had heard in conversations and 
sermons in Florence, especially at the Franciscan school of Santa Croce and the 
Dominican studium of Santa Maria Novella, would further contend against the 
idea of a later scribal intrusion, either neutral or papalist. Although the 
Provengal Franciscan, Peter John Olivi (ca. 1248-98), had argued vehemently in 
Florence against Innocent IV’s doctrine that the popes possessed direct 


superiority of the spiritual goal. See Gewirth’s “Introduction” to Defender of the Peace 
lii. 

18 “T reply: it must be said that, just as temporal things exist for the body’s sake and the 
body for the soul’s, so all these lower things must be subordinated to the soul’s good; 
otherwise, man does not use temporals rightly, but abuses them. The temporal power 
must therefore in some way be subordinated to the spiritual power in those things which 
pertain to spirituality itself; that is, in spirituals [but only in spirituals]. In this way, 
multitude is reduced to unity.” Trans. adapted from Quaestio in utramque partem V:II 
[For and Against Pontifical Power] in Three Royalist Tracts 86-87. See also Scholz 224- 
28; Minio-Paluello 522-23; Martinelli 201-02. 

'9 See Minio-Paluello 523. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 435 


“universal power” in both spiritual and temporal realms, the native Florentine 
Dominican Remigio de’ Girolami, a student of Saint Thomas Aquinas, had 
asserted that the papacy had “quodammodo” “some certain power” in the 
temporal sphere by way of its spiritual duty, just as the soul was, axiomatically, 
above the body and the heavenly was above the earthly.2? Even for the great 
canonist Uguccione da Pisa, “Hugutio,” the formulator of the dualist doctrine 
who adamantly defended the separate origins of the two powers directly from 
God, the temporal power was, in practice, subject to the spiritual “in 
spiritualibus et quodammodo in temporabilis” (“in spiritual things and in some 
way in temporal things”).2! Bartolo da Sassoferrato, an ardent follower of 
Dante’s dualism, was later to use the same word to describe a more extreme 
fraternal cooperation between the two powers: “The Empire and the Church are 
said in some way [quodammodo] to act as brothers.”22 

We must, in short, interpret the intentionally conciliatory vocabulary of the 


20 “We said above that the pope is compared to the emperor as the soul is to the body and 
as the intellective to the sensitive, and as the heavenly to the earthly and thus as a lord to 
a minister and as God to man. In all the aforesaid things we find that, if the second is 
removed [as in a dead man, who, upon the death of his body, sees God face to face], the 
first extends directly and immediately, but while the second is present, it does not extend 
except indirectly in a certain way [quodammodo] and through a medium” (Remigio de’ 
Girolami 74). In reverse of Dante’s belief, but ultimately in obedience to Uguccione da 
Pisa (according to the doctrine of “failing all other jurisdictions”), Remigio held that the 
Pope’s authority had full extension in temporals if the emperor were absent or removed: 
“If the emperor is removed, or any other secular prince, the jurisdiction of the Pope then 
extends directly to temporals” (ibid.; emphases added). 

21 Maccarrone, “II terzo libro” (7-9). Nardi, Dal Convivio 307-08. Mochi Onory 141-77. 
Martinelli 201-02. Olivi fought with great vigor against Innocent IV’s doctrine 
(Maccarrone, “Papato e impero nella Monarchia” 263). Remigio de’ Girolami’s 
arguments urging humility in papal prerogatives are found in his Contra falsos ecclesie 
professores 63-67. The difficulty of any interpretation lies between what Dante implies 
and what he says: we have noted that, for the Poet, the electors speak as heralds of God’s 
will directly (Mon. 3:16, 13); and the Poet certainly implies, yet never states precisely, 
that the emperor does not need any official papal affirmation. All the same, he claims that 
a personal blessing is appropriate. We can infer that he believes that an emperor— 
Ludwig of Bavaria or Frederick of Austria?—to have been somehow duly chosen, despite 
a split election, yet the text of the Monarchia certainly gives us no warrant to decide 
whether Dante could have given allegiance to any such imperial claimant. Can Grande 
had received a renewal of his vicariate from Frederick of Austria (allied, for the most 
part, to the papacy), while it was the Court of the Emperor Ludwig that would twist the 
Monarchia into an anti-papal pamphlet. Fortunately, or unfortunately, the scandalous and 
horrifying absurdities of Ludwig’s comic-opera coronations in Rome and his appointment 
of an antipope (12 May 1328) all took place years after Dante’s death. 

22 Latin text cited in Martinelli 203n34; 204. Martinelli is certainly correct in viewing 
Bartolo’s “fraternizing” as something more extreme than Dante’s father-son symbolism. 


436 Anthony Cassell 


Monarchia’s concluding sentences within the broader traditional context of 
framing the influence of papal power. Most important, in 1983, Bortolo 
Martinelli showed that “quodammodo” had, not surprisingly, a very precise 
history of use, for it was Boethius’s translation for Aristotle’s “nwc” 
(“somehow”) in the abstract relationship of one thing to another in Categories 
7.23 Peter of Spain, the future Pope John XXI, echoed it in his definition of 
relatives in his Summulae logicales. Most important, Abelard had already 
applied the word, strictly, to the reciprocal relationships of filiation and 
paternity, fathers and sons in his Glossae super Praedicamenta Aristotelis.24 
Monarchia 3:16.17 thus expresses two analogous facts: just as the happiness of 
this mortal life is in some way ordered toward eternal happiness, in the same 
way the Roman prince is in a certain sense under the Roman Pontiff. The 
conclusion of Dante’s Monarchia is far more conservative than his Guelph 
enemies were willing to admit, yet as far as the direct divine origins of the 
emperor’s power and as far as the substance and the earthly extent of his 
dominion is concerned, we can see that Dante has not budged an inch from his 
convinced dualist position. 

At the time of the Monarchia’s composition, imperialists and canonists 
alike debated the burning issue of the effect of the papal blessing upon the 
emperor at the ceremonial anointing and coronation in Rome. Dante knew St. 
Paul’s affirmation in the Epistle to the Hebrews 7:7, that “sine ulla autem 
contradictione quod minus est a meliore benedicitur” (“it is beyond dispute that 
the inferior is blessed by the superior’).2> Much had been made of Paul’s 
statement among canon lawyers: Pope Nicholas II, for example, had forbidden 
lesser clergy to bless those above them.2° Dante was also familiar with Hugh of 
St. Victor’s conclusion in De sacramentis 2:2.4, where the Victorine took the 
passage from Hebrews as proof beyond all doubt that the earthly power, which 
received blessing from the spiritual, was rightly deemed inferior.2”? Among the 


23 Martinelli 210. Aristotle explained: “For if someone knows of a certain ‘this’ that is a 
relative, and being for relatives is the same as being somehow related to something, he 
knows that also to which this is somehow related” (Categories 7 [8a 37-38-8b 1]; 
Complete Works of Aristotle 1:13). 

24 Martinelli 210-11. Peter of Spain, Tractatus III, 20 in Summule logicales 35; Peter 
Abelard, Philosophische Schriften 1, 216-17. 

25 The Douay-Rheims version reads, “without all contradiction, that which is less, is 
blessed by the better.” Dante well knew the import of chapter 7 of this Epistle, where St. 
Paul had affirmed the priesthood of Christ “according to the order of Melchisedech,” who 
was Priest and King of Salem; it was the very passage that the canonists quoted most 
often to affirm the superiority of the spiritual power in its Old and New Testament 
typological precedents of the popes’ royal power. 

26 For Nicholas II, see Gratian, Decreti prima pars, Distinctio XX1, Corpus iuris 
canonici, ed. Richter and Friedberg 1:70-71 

27 De sacramentis Il, ii, 4 (PL 176: 418); Hugh of Saint Victor, On the Sacraments 256. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 437 


hierocrats, Egidio Romano [Giles of Rome] had cited St. Paul with Hugh’s 
comment to same effect in his De ecclesiastica potestate [On Ecclesiastical 
Power], lib. 1, cap. 5,28 and Friar Guido Vernani, Dante’s sarcastic post-mortem 
opponent, was to adduce the same authorities in his Expositio super Unam 
Sanctam [Commentary on Unam Sanctam].29 

Historically, the very staging of the emperor’s oath of office and the 
benediction during the coronation posed an embarrassing problem for the 
imperialists. During the ceremony, the emperor knelt to swear between the 
hands of the pope, an act that had every ritual appearance of feudal 
subservience. Most awkward too was the fact that the pope took “the unsheathed 
sword from the altar and hand[ed] it to him, signifying by the sword the care of 
the whole Empire, blessing him as follows: ‘Take thou from on high the sword 
of the blessed Peter, received in the flesh at our hands, though unworthy, on 
God’s behalf [...] conferred on thee imperially by the ceremony of our 
benediction.’”29 Although Dante calls the Emperor “God’s anointed” in 
Monarchia 2:1.3, he significantly and carefully omits from his treatise any 
mention of papal “unction” and “confirmation,” since for him such issues would 
be immaterial. He was mindful that the defenders of Philip the Fair’s autonomy 
had claimed that “non est de necessitate potestatis secularis quod inungatur per 
sacerdotium [...] non est etiam de necessitate regis [...] quod ungatur.”>! 

The question surrounding the implications of the imperial oath, unction and 
blessing had erupted in an historical crisis six years before the Monarchia, 
when, after his coronation in 1312, Henry VII?2 vigorously objected to Pope 


28 Aegidius Romanus (Giles of Rome), De ecclesiastica potestate, ed. Scholz 17. See 
also Giles’ later chapter “Quod in omnibus temporalibus ecclesia habet dominium 
universale,” lib. 2, cap. 10, ed. Scholz 86-96; On Ecclesiastical Power 81-91. 

29 “Ergo terrena potestas secundum omnia bona terrena, que habet, est sub clericis sive 
sub ecclesia. Secundo probat hoc idem ex benedictione et sanctificatione. Sacerdotalis 
enim potestas benedict et sanctificat regalem, ut dicit Ugo de sacramentis. Sed secundum 
apostolum qui benedicit maior est eo qui benedicitur.” The full text of the Expositio super 
Unam Sanctam is in Grabmann, “Kommentar des Guido Vernani [...] zur Bulle Unam 
Sanctam” (154). 

30 Ordo romanus (PL 78: 1242). The words of the imperial Coronation ceremony are 
cited at length by James of Viterbo to cap his Chapter 8 of De Regimine Christiano (On 
Christian Government 126). 

31 “Tit is] not a necessity of nature of the secular power that it should be anointed [...]. 
Nor is it a necessity of kingship itself [...] that a king be anointed” (De potestate regia et 
papali 18: 26, ed. Leclerq 229; John of Paris, On Royal and Papal Power, trans. Watt 
189-190). See also Dupré Theseider 230-54. 

32 During the final stages of his quarrel with the pope’s feudal vassal, Robert III “the 
Wise” of Anjou, King of Naples, and unable to invade southern Italy militarily, Henry 
VII of Luxembourg proceeded legally; without trial, he condemned King Robert to death 
by decapitation, labeling him perditionis alumpnus, charging him with /ése majesté and 


438 Anthony Cassell 


Clement V’s order to make a truce with the King Robert of Anjou, King of 
Naples, under pain of excommunication. Henry had denied that as a 
consequence of the coronation benediction he had ever sworn an oath of fealty 
to the pope, and requested clarification and justification of his position from 
expert jurists and theologians. On the November 14, 1313, the Ghibelline 
apologist Giovanni Brancazoli (Johannes Branchazolus) of Pavia dispatched his 
exaggerated speculations to Henry in the treatise De principio et origine et 
potencia imperatoris et pape [On the Beginning and Origin and Power of the 
Emperor and of the Pope].>> According to Brancazoli, the pope had power only 
in things spiritual; both imperial and papal authority were divine in origin; in 
fact, the emperor ruled both in temporal and spiritual matters since he was king 
of all things and head of the Church; he had no need to be crowned by the pope 
since just as “he was crowned before the advent of Christ, so he is still crowned 
today, since Christ made no innovations concerning it [i.e., the crowning of the 
emperor].”24 Those who elected him had the right to crown him; contrary to 
papal claims that the emperor received the power of the sword through Papal 
consecration, the jurist averred that “coronation by the pope added nothing 
substantial to the emperor’s power.”>> But, as we have noted before, despite all 
this, neither side had ever questioned that the merit of spiritualia was greater 
and nobler than that of temporalia. Thus, much as Remigio de’ Girolami teaches 
in his Contra falsos ecclesie professores?® and Dante acknowledges in his 
conclusion to the Monarchia, following the Aristotelian relation of soul to the 


of being a rebel against the Empire. Henry vigorously rejected the pope’s prohibition of 
any attack on the Kingdom of Sicily, for he certainly could not see how he himself could 
be a vassal of the pope. Imperialists and monarchists held that only the Kingdom of Italy 
(i.e., Naples, under King Robert) was a fief under the papacy; see, for example, John of 
Paris, De potestate regia et papali, 15: 7 (On Royal and Papal Power, trans. Watt 172). 
Interestingly, in his reply to Henry’s sentence, Robert was to use the terms of arenas, 
struggles and wrestling matches, perhaps suggesting them as governing metaphors to 
Dante in book two of the Monarchia. See Robert’s passages cited in Bowsky, Henry VII 
184. 

33 See Johannes Branchazolus de Pavia 44-52. See also Bowsky 185; Wilks, 29, 63, 72, 
81-83; Pennington 174-75. 

34 Alvarus Pelagius lists such an assertion as a heresy to be roundly refuted: “Alia hereses 
est que dicit et tenet, quod reges sunt caput ecclesie [...] ” (“Another heresy there is that 
states and holds that kings are the head of the church [...]”). (Tractatus 504). 

35 De principio 49; Pennington 175n50. Bowsky 185, 263n25. In a letter of October 23, 
1236, Pope Gregory IX, for example, argued, basing his position on the Donation of 
Constantine, that the emperor received the power of the sword in his coronation (van 
Cleve 396; Morris 365). Dante’s friend, the Ghibelline jurist Cino da Pistoia also 
concluded that “the one elected by the people according to /ex regia” held full sovereign 
rights immediately, without coronation (Hugelmann 29-31n2; Kantorowicz 320-28, for 
Cino, esp. 325, n. 34). 

36 Remigio de’ Girolami 74. On Tolomeo da Lucca and reverentia, see Vinay 18-19. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 439 
body, even the extreme imperialist Brancazoli had grudgingly to allow that: 


sicut virtutes anime secuntur conplexiones corporis et sic corpus anime dominatur, licet 
[...] corpore sit anima dignior, sic et apostolicus sequitur imperatorem, licet ei det 
perfectionem, et potencialiter agat et vivat, et imperator apostolico dominatur, licet 
imperatore dignior possit dici, ad cuius officium specialiter pertinet animas et spiritualia 
gubernare [...] que sunt temporalibus digniora.>7 


From the court of the Emperor Henry VII’s ally, Frederick III of Trinacria 
(Sicily) late in 1312 or early in 1313, had come a more truculent protest in 
which a certain Sicilian jurist, whom some identify as the lay-civilian lawyer 
Giovanni di Calvaruso (Johannes de Calvoruso), had curiously based his 
arguments, not on Roman but on canon law. Since even the canonists recognized 
the emperor as “lord of the world,”3® he proclaimed the Ghibelline views of the 
emperor’s superiority to the pope and relegated the papacy only to things 
spiritual: “Among those living in this world and all that belongs to mutable and 
human things and temporal power, nothing is greater than the Empire”: “Unctio 
enim non facit maiorem eum qui ungit eo qui ungitur” (“Unction does not make 
him who anoints greater than him who is anointed”).3? The emperor had full 
power upon his election and had no need to be crowned or anointed by the pope 
(Calvaruso, Memoriale 1312).49 Since the imperial authority was superior 


37 “as the virtues of the soul follow the constitution of the body, and as the body 
dominates the soul, although {...] the soul be worthier than the body, so the pope follows 
the emperor, albeit giving him perfection, so that he may potentially act and live, and the 
emperor dominates the pope, although he whose office it specifically is to govern souls 
and spiritual things can be said to be worthier than the emperor {...], [he whose] things 
are worthier than temporal things.” Johannes Branchazolus 50 (my emphasis). See also 
Kantorowicz 326. 

38 Here the canonists were, of course, most obligingly generous. The title was also that of 
Satan-Lucifer! 

39 Attributed to Giovanni di Calvaruso 1311. As hierocrats played down the significance 
of the power of unction received by the monarch as something less than ecclesiastic 
ordination (fearing that, by its resemblance to the consecration of bishops, it endowed 
spiritual power to the temporal monarch — they had changed the place of unction from 
the head to the arms, as is still practiced in the British ceremony, for example), royalists 
and imperialists came to think of coronations as a mere superfluity: “The pope is not 
superior in temporal affairs,” opined Calvaruso; he held that the imperial election alone 
bestowed all power upon the Roman Prince (Memoriale 1311, 1340). On Calvaruso, 
Henry VII and Robert of Naples, see Pennington 172. Kantorowicz 326n39. 

40 Contrast the hierocratic Tolomeo da Lucca who concludes after citing many 
precedents, ‘quod auctoritas summi pontificis est maior et ideo imperator ex sua electione 
administrationem non habet sine confirmatione pape, quia ex superiore dependet. Istud 
enim soli summo pontifici convenit, ut doctores iuris volunt, qui, quia superiorem non 


440 Anthony Cassell 


temporally, Clement V had thus no right to wield “his scythe in another’s field” 
(a favorite publicist phrase) by ordering any truce between King Robert of 
Naples and emperor. Thus the threat of excommunication had no basis.4! Most 
important, Calvaruso, like other Ghibelline apologists, emphasized first that the 
emperor’s gesture during the blessing did not signify submission but reverence 
to the Pontiff, for the emperor was, before all, the advocate and defender of the 
faith. The emperor’s oath sworn to the pope during the coronation signified not 
vassalage but spiritual homage and devotion: 


Illud non est sacramentum subiectionis seu vassallagii nec eim illius per omnia formam 
habet, sed est sacramentum devoctionis seu reverencie ac humilitatis, quam disciplina 
docuit christiana, et cuiusdam obsequii christianitatis [...] set ratione obsequii quod debet 
spiritualiter quilibet christianus ecclesie et maxime principes catholici et ante omnes 
imperator.42 


While papal power was generally qualified with a cautionary — or 
peremptory! — “quodammodo” by those on both sides of the issue, 
contemporary defenders of the Empire certainly did not allow any equation of 
“reverentia” with vassalage; yet no imperialist writer, no matter how radical, 
ever denied that such spiritual reverence was fully due to the pontiff.43 The term 
signified for the Poet not only a reciprocal respect between the two offices, but 
also a son’s dutiful regard for his parent as a man and the very circumscribed 
duties of a father toward a son of full maturity in fulfilling his paternal love by 
instruction and example.44 The pope’s blessing, at any time that it was freely 
given and received, increased the power already inherent in the divine imperial 
office. Dante rose above the tedious, lawyerly wrangling over whether unction 
and benediction were, or were not, necessary, and went to the heart of the matter 
to ask whether they were, instead, efficacious and increased charity. 

In the Monarchia’s last paragraph the Poet sets forth the perfect relationship 


habet, de ipsa sua electine canonica statim est confirmatus ac plena et libera gaudet 
iurisdictione pontificali” (ed. Krammer 9). 

41 Calvaruso cites Pope Gelasius’s doctrine to refute Innocent III’s Venerabilem X 
(Decretals 1:6.34); see Memoriale 1310, 1312, 1340. 

42 “That is not a sacrament of subjection or vassalage neither does it have it in any form; 
rather it is a sacrament of devotion or reverence and humility as Christian doctrine 
teaches and of Christian compliance to the same [...] by reason of the compliance that any 
Christian owes to the Church and especially Catholic princes, and above all, the 
emperor” (my emphases; Calvaruso, Memoriale 1312). See Bowsky 186, 263, n. 30; 
Wilks 242-43n2; and Ricci, “Dante e l’impero romano” 141, 147. 

43 Nardi, Dal Convivio 204; also Sistrunk 95-112. 

44 On the concepts of reverence and irreverence, and separation of fields of authority in 
the Convivio, see note above; see also Di Scipio 267-84. Consecration as bishop 
conferred majority upon the candidate; a bishop held the same position ecclesiastically as 
a king. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 441 


between the pontiff and emperor, just as he was, at about the same time, 
presenting it more movingly in Paradiso 6. There the soul of the Emperor 
Justinian, closed and nested in his own radiance and shining with a double 
light,45 recounts how, after Pope Agapetus*® had directed him away from the 
errors of monophysitism, he had consequently reformed Roman Law and 
removed its superfluities “by the will of Primal Love,” that is, with God’s grace. 
The phrase de jure, which Dante repeats throughout the Monarchia each time he 
refers to the Empire’s legitimacy, stresses the historical Justinian understanding 
of direct reception of imperial power from the Godhead (“imperium, quod nobis 
a caelesti maiestate traditum est” [“our empire delivered to us by the Heavenly 
Majesty”]) and the fruition of direct inspiration from heaven.47 

The episode in the Paradiso gives a concrete example of what the Poet 
means by ideal reciprocity between the two powers directly ordained by God: 
man thus gains the goal of earthly peace and justice while he makes his way to 
the goal of blessedness hereafter. Natural law, the reasonable ordering of the 
world, forms the basis for all Dante’s claims for the empire. He recognizes the 
dignity of the “natural” sphere of rational and ethical values: original sin did not 
blot it out, nor will God’s last judgment annihilate it. For the Poet, as for St. 
Thomas Aquinas, reason and faith are ultimately in harmony and so, upon this 
pattern, should rest the relation between the two powers that guide man first to 
earthly, then, heavenly, bliss. Spiritual power does not replace or delete the 
earthly, nor vice-versa. Dante’s vision of reciprocal aid and the increase of 
effectiveness of the emperor through the grace of the pontiff ’s blessing fulfills 
St. Thomas’s dictum, “Gratia non tollit naturam sed perficit” (“Grace does not 
abolish Nature but perfects it”).48 

Thus, despite some scholars’ contention that the final paragraph contradicts 
and vitiates the arguments of the rest of the treatise,4? Monarchia 3:16 really 


. 


45 “sopra la qual doppio lume s’addiia”: Justinian’s own light as emperor, and the 
additional light of Agapetus’ benediction. Dante’s imagery in Par. 5:124, 137; 7:6 
especially, the canticle’s “two suns” imagery with this “twinned” bathing of Justinian’s 
blessed soul glowing in heaven mutually reflects and fleshes out Mon. 3:16.17. 

46 The concepts of “iustitia” and “agape,” justice and charity, reflecting in turn the two 
main political and Christian virtues, are poetically and spiritually most significant in 
Dante’s choice of example. 

47 Digest of Justinian 1: xlvi, lvii, et passim. The Digest is insistently punctuated with 
such expressions of direct power, never hinting at any ecclesiastical intermediary. 

48 James of Viterbo interprets the doctrines of grace-perfecting-Nature and of imperial 
consecration in a hierocratic way in Chapter 7 of De Regimine Christiano (On Christian 
Government, trans. Dyson 103-04). 

49 For example, such as that argued by Kelsen 120, 139-40; Vossler 147-48. See 
d’Entréves 50-51; Reeves 102. It would take the unlikely appearance of some newly 
discovered first-generation manuscripts lacking this last paragraph to lend any credence 
at all to the theory of a later interpolation; the paragraphs of Mon. 3:4.18-20 would, 


442 Anthony Cassell 


presents no such aberration: we may further describe it as an eclectic Christian 
and Aristotelian, even Thomistic, conclusion that is historically comprehensible 
and consistent. Dante has, in fact, carefully set forth this same position in an 
earlier passage of the treatise. As we have noted, in Monarchia 3:4.18-20, after 
denying the applicability of the canonist analogy of the two great lights of the 
firmament, he proceeds by acquiescing in it for the sake of argument while 
giving it major corrections: the moon and sun were created separately; their 
beings are not interdependent; their functions are of separate derivation and 
different purpose: the moon radiates its own light, albeit not abundantly. To 
fulfill its function more effectively, however, Dante has a/ready stated there that 
the moon receives further illumination from the sun just as the emperor may 
receive the additional fatherly blessing of the pope: 


Quantum ad esse, nullo modo luna dependet a sole, nec etiam quantum ad virtutem, nec 
quantum ad operationem simpliciter; quia motus eius est a motore proprio, influentia sua 
est a propriis eius radiis: habet enim aliquam lucem ex se, ut in eius eclipsi manifestum 
est. Sed quantum ad melius et virtuosius operandum, recipit aliquid a sole, quia lucem 
habundantem: qua recepta, virtuosius operatur. Sic ergo dico quod regnum temporale non 
recipit esse a spirituali, nec virtutem que est eius auctoritas, nec etiam, operationem 
simpliciter; sed bene ab eo recipit ut virtuosius operetur per lucem gratie quam in celo et 
in terra benedictio summi Pontificis infundit illi. 

(Monarchia 3:4.18-20)>° 


Dante opened Book 2:1.1 of the treatise with the righteous diatribes of the 
Psalmist; by Book 3:1.1, he begins by casting himself in the role of Daniel in the 


likewise, have to be missing or demonstrate the wording there as a later alteration. 
Without such unlikely findings we accept the text as it now exists. Bruno Nardi, for 
example, many times repeated his belief that Dante’s three words of attenuation were an 
afterthought, a later “tempering” “an addition and pentimento,” “a reservation” (Nel 
mondo 239; Dal Convivio 114, 301, 310; Saggi e note 71-72). My sense is that the text as 
it stands is intentional and integral; other imperialist texts conventionally show the same 
ultimate reverence. For Dante the Empire and the Church are both divine and sacred. 

50 “As far as its existence is concerned, in no way does the moon depend upon the sun; 
nor does it depend upon it as far as its power is concerned; nor, to put it simply, does it do 
so as far as its function is concerned, because its movement derives from its own mover, 
and its influence from its own rays. It has, in fact, a little light of its own, as is shown 
during its eclipse. But as far as its better and more efficacious functioning is concerned, 
it receives something from the sun, that is, an abundance of light, and by the reception of 
this light it can function more powerfully. Ergo, I affirm likewise that the temporal realm 
does not receive its being from the spiritual; neither, to put it simply, does it receive its 
power, that is, its authority nor even its functioning from it. But it does indeed receive 
from the spiritual the wherewithal to function with greater efficacy through the light of 
grace that in heaven as on earth the benediction of the Supreme Pontiff infuses into it” 
(Monarchia 3:4.18-20; my translation and emphases). 


39 66 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 443 


lion’s den, audaciously expressing utter contempt for the papal decretalists. In 
their ignorance, these extreme hierocrats have transgressed true ancient tradition 
and the very commandment of God (3:3.15). The pope and the supporters of the 
plenitude of papal power in the temporal field are, regrettably, wrong. The 
arguments of those who rely upon decretals, whose neoteric proliferation is only 
internal to the Church, must be ousted from this debate. Yet Dante also 
concludes Chapter 3 of Monarchia 3 with a most diplomatically worded 
passage, embracing “reverence” as his personal duty. In the arena of theological 
and philosophical disputation, like all true Christians, the Poet owes the same 
relation of filial piety to the church, to the pontiff and to the faith that the 
emperor owes in the exercise of his jurisdiction. The banished poet seeks a 
vision of reconciliation in the only spiritual way open to him: 


Quapropter cum solis concertatio restat qui, aliquali zelo erga matrem Ecclesiam ducti, 
ipsam que queritur veritatem ignorant: cum quibus illa reverentia fretus quam pius filius 
debet patri, quam pius filius matri, pius in Cristum, pius in Ecclesiam, pius in pastorem, 
pius in omnes cristianum religionem profitentes, pro salute veritatis in hoc libro certamen 
incipio.>! 


The passage is fundamentally important for an appreciation of the role that 
Dante, from his now-privileged position as exile, believed he played in the 
controversy: as dutiful prophet able and daring to speak above the fray, as 
devout theologian, as obedient interpreter and as seer, he will salvage the truth 
— both the autonomy of the Empire and the purity of the Church — in the face 
of misguided zeal. Dante’s major opus and his important political treatise, the 
Commedia and the Monarchia, are in ultimate accord.>2 

Although the Poet must place his emphasis on an Aristotelian earthly 
happiness for polemical reasons in the Monarchia, he nevertheless follows the 
lead of St. Thomas Aquinas and others before him who had orthodoxly treated 
the blessedness of this life as ultimately ancillary to eternal blessedness: earthly 
existence, as partisans of all loyalties agreed, could only give happiness 
“quodammodo.”53 Thomas had also cautiously admitted, “Et sic beatitudo quae 


51 “Wherefore there remains only the dispute with those who, led by some zeal on behalf 
of Mother Church, are ignorant of that very truth we are seeking. Relying on that 
reverence that a pious son owes a father, that a pious son owes a mother, pious towards 
Christ, pious towards the Church, pious towards her Shepherd, pious towards anyone 
who professes the Christian faith, in this book I begin the contest with them for the 
salvation of truth” (Monarchia 3:3.18)]. 

52 While, like many, Fortin generally neglects the import of the last paragraphs of the 
Monarchia, he finds major agreement between Dante’s two major, complementary 
works: “Les deux oeuvres se complétent beaucoup plus qu’elles se contredisent” (126). 

53 Vernani does not address the conventional “quodammodo” attenuation, as we noted; it 
would have weakened his arguments. For the Friar from Rimini, the Emperor and all civil 


444 Anthony Cassell 


in hac vita haberi potest, dependet guodammodo ex corpore” (“And, thus, that 
happiness, which can be had in this life, depends in some way on the body” [my 
emphasis]).°4 And Dante reiterates similar caution in the wording of the 
universally accepted formulas in his last lines. The Poet, forced to wander and 
seek his shelter in strangers’ lands, had always recognized, and perhaps no one 
ever more clearly, the far greater importance of eternal blessedness and he 
makes its attainment the ineffable object and culmination of the last canticle of 
his Commedia, dedicated to the very friend on whose behalf he composed the 
Monarchia. 

Although the logic that underlies Dante’s strategy in the Monarchia is 
forensic, political and corrective, we are yet left at treatise’s end with a glow of 
hopeful optimism. Most probably girded historically and spiritually with the 
cord of a Franciscan Tertiary,-> Dante here records, in his waning exiled years, 
his simple, optimistic Christian conviction, that, despite the bitterly salted bread 
of implacable earthly tribulation, he viewed life on earth as blest, naturally, 
sacramentally, and directly by a loving, omnipotent God. From a life of 
expulsion Dante writes both of unity and of his own ultimate usefulness and 
belonging. 


University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana 


and temporal life were under the direct and full control of the pope, not “in some certain 
way”! 

54 Thomas discusses the conditions of twofold beatitude “duplex beatitudo” (which Dante 
follows and modifies) in Summa Theologiae, vol.16: Purpose and Happiness \a2ae. 1-5: 
100-03; see also vol. 5: God’s Will and Providence Ia, 19-26: 108-09. 

55 At some point after 1328, both because of such threats as those of the Cardinal-Legate 
Bertrand du Poujet to charge the poet posthumously with heresy and burn his corpse in 
public, and because of the unceasing Florentine demands for the Poet’s body, the 
Franciscans of San Pier Maggiore (now the Church of San Francesco) in Ravenna 
apparently secreted Dante’s cadaver, bricking it up within the protective church walls for 
its later, fortuitous, and quite remarkable rediscovery just in time for the centenary year 
of 1865; the bones were then removed to the nearby seventeenth-century tomb that had 
long stood ready to receive the Poet’s mortal remains. The papal Curia, of course, never 
brought an official charge of heterodoxy against Dante. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 445 


Works Cited 

Primary Sources 

Alvarus Pelagius. Tractatus qui nominatur collirium Alvari adversus hereses novas. Ed. 
Richard Scholz. Unbekannte kirchenpolitische Streitschriften aus der Zeit Ludwigs 
des Bayern (1327-1354). 2 vols. Roma: Loescher, 1911-14. 

Ambrose of Milan, Saint. Hexaemeron. PL 14: 203-06. 

. Hexameron, Paradise, Cain and Abel. Trans. John J. Savage. New York: Fathers 
of the Church, 1961. 

[Anonymous]. Quaestio in utramque partem, pro et contra pontificiam potestatem [For 
and Against Pontifical Power]. Three Royalist Tracts, 1296-1302. Trans. R. W. 
Dyson. Bristol: U of Durham P / Thoemmes: 1999. 47-111. 

[Anonymous]. Summa parisiensis. Ed. T. P. McLaughlin. Toronto: Pontifical Institute of 
Mediaeval Studies, 1952. 

Aristotle. The Complete Works of Aristotle: The Revised Oxford Translation. Ed. 
Jonathan Barnes. Bollingen Series 71. 2 vols. Princeton: UP, 1984. 

Augustine [of Hippo, Saint]. Enarratio in Psalmum 8:9. PL 36:112. 

. [Enarrationes in Psalmos;]. Augustine. Expositions on the Book of Psalms. 
Translated with Notes and Indices, A. Cleveland Coxe. A Select Library of The 
Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers 8, Grand Rapids: W. B. Eerdmans, 1974. 

[Brancazoli, Giovanni]. Johannes Branchazolus. De principio et origine et potencia 
imperatoris et pape. Ed. Edmund F. Stengel. Nova Alemanniae. Berlin: 
Weidmannsche Buchhandlung, 1921. No. 90, vol. 1: 44-52. 

Corpus Iuris Civilis. Vol. 1: Institutiones. Ed. P. Krueger. Digesta. Ed. Theodor 
Mommsen. 3" ed. 1882. Vol. 2: Codex Iustinianus. Ed. Paul Kreuger. 1880; Vol. 3: 
Novellae. Recognovit Rudolfus Schoell et Guilelmus [Wilhelm] Kroll. Berolini 
[Berlin]: apud Weidmannos, 1880-1895. 

[Corpus luris Civilis, Digest] The Digest of Justinian. Ed. Theodor Mommsen with Paul 
Kreuger. Original texts with an Eng. trans. Alan Watson. 4 vols. Philadelphia: U of 
Pennsylvania P, 1985. 

Corpus iuris canonici. Ed. Emilius [Emil] Richter and Emilius [Emil] Friedberg. 2 vols. 
Leipzig: Bernhard Tauchnitz, 1879. 

Dante Alighieri. The Divine Comedy. Ed. and trans. Charles S. Singleton. Princeton: UP, 
1970-1975. 

. Convivio. Opere minori. Tom. 1, pt. 2. Ed. Cesare Vasoli and Domenico de 
Robertis. Milano: Ricciardi Editore, 1998. 

. Monarchia. Ed. Pier Giorgio Ricci. Le opere de Dante Alighieri. Edizione 
nazionale 5. Milano: Mondadori, 1965. 

Dante Alighieri. Monarchia: Lateinisch-Deutsch Studienausgabe. Ed. Ruedi Imbach and 
Christoph Fliieler. Stuttgart: Philipp Reclam, 1989. 

. Dante’s Monarchia. Ed. Richard Kay. Studies and Texts 131. Toronto: 
Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, 1998. 

[Giles of Rome, Egidio Romano]. Aegidius Romanus. De ecclesiastica potestate. Ed. 
Richard Scholz. Leipzig: Béhlaus, 1929; rpt. Darmstadt: Scientia Aalen, 1961. 

Giles of Rome. On Ecclesiastical Power: The De ecclesiastica potestate of Aegidius 
Romanus. Trans. with introd. and notes R. W Dyson. Woodbridge, Suffolk: Boydell, 
1986. 

Giovanni di Calvaruso [attrib.]. Memoriale [Quaestio an Romanus pontifex potuerit 


446 Anthony Cassell 


treguam inducere] (emorialia et disquisitiones, 1312-1313, no. 1248C). Ed. J. 
Schwalm. Monumenta Germaniae Historica, Legum sectio IV. Hannover-Leipzig. 
Vol. 4, pt. 2. 1308-41. 

Hugh of Saint Victor. De sacramentis. PL 176. 

. On the Sacraments of the Christian Faith: De Sacramentis christianae fidei. 
Trans. Roy J. Deferrari. Cambridge, MA: The Mediaeval Academy of America, 
1951. 

[James of Viterbo. De regimine christiano]. James of Viterbo. On Christian Government. 
Ed., trans. and intro. R. W. Dyson. Woodbridge UK: Boydell, 1995. 

[John (Quidort) of Paris]. Jean de Paris. Tractatus de potestate regia et papali. Ed. J. 
Leclerq. L’ecclésiologie du XIIF siécle. Paris: J. Vrin, 1942. 173-260. 

John of Paris. On Royal and Papal Power: A Translation, with Introduction of the De 
Potestate Regia et papali of John of Paris. Trans. Arthur P. Monahan. The Records 
of Civilization: Sources and Studies 90. New York: Columbia U P, 1974. 

. On Royal and Papal Power. Trans. with introd. J. A. Watt. Toronto: The 
Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, 1971. 

[John XXII]. Extravagantes Iohannis XXII. Ed. Jacqueline Tarrant. Monumenta Iuris 
Canonici. Series B: Corpus Collectionum, vol. 6. Citta del Vaticano: Biblioteca 
Apostolica Vaticana, 1983. 

. Extravagantes lIohannis XXII, Titulus V. Corpus iuris canonici [CIC]. Ed. 
Aemilius [Emil] Richter and Aemilius [Emil] Friedberg. Leipzig: Bernhard 
Tauchnitz, 1879. 

[Marsiglio of Padua]. Marsilius of Padua. Defensor Pacis: The Defender of the Peace. 
Trans. Alan Gewirth. Records of Civilization. New York: Columbia U P, 1956. 2 
vols.; vol. 2, rpt. as Marsilius of Padua. Defender of Peace: The Defensor Pacis. 
Trans. and intro. Alan Gewirth. Harper Torchbooks. New York: Harper and Row, 
1956; rpt. 1965, 1967. 

Ordo romanus [Imperial Coronation ceremony]. PL 78: 1242. 

Peter Abelard. Philosophische Schriften 1. Die Logica “Ingredientibus” 2. Die Glossen 
zu den Kategorien. Ed. B. Geyer. Miinster: Aschendorff, 1921. 

Peter of Spain. Tractatus, Called Afterwards Summule logicales. Ed. L. M. de Rijk, 
Philosophical Texts and Studies 22. Assen: Van Gorcum, 1972. 

[Petrarca, Francesco. Liber sine nominee]. Petrarch’s Book Without a Name: A 
Translation of the Liber sine nomine. Trans. Norman P. Zacour. Toronto: Pontifical 
Institute of Medieval Studies, 1973. 

Remigio de’ Girolami. Contra falsos ecclesie professores. Ed. Filippo Tamburini. Roma: 
Libreria Editrice della Pontificia Universita Lateranense, 1981. 

[Tolomeo da Lucca. Short Determination] Determinatio compendiosa de iurisdictione 
imperii auctore anonymo ut videtur Tholomeo Lucensi O.P. Ed. Marius Krammer. 
Hannover: Impensis Bibliopolii Hahniani, 1909. 

Thomas Aquinas. Summa Theologiae vol. 5: God's Will and Providence la, 19-26. 
Blackfriars in Conjunction with McGraw-Hill, New York, and Eyre and 
Spottiswoode, London, 1967. 

. Summa Theologiae. Vol. 16: Purpose and Happiness \a2ae. 1-5. Blackfriars in 
conjunction with McGraw-Hill, New York; Eyre and Spottiswoode, London, 1969. 

[Vernani, Guido. Expositio super Unam Sanctam]. “Kommentar des Guido Vernani von 
Rimini O.P. zur Bulle Unam Sanctam.” Ed. Martin Grabmann. Studien tiber den 





The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 447 


Einfluss der aristotelischen Philosophie auf die mittelalterlichen Theorien tiber das 
Verhaltnis von Kirche und Staat, Sitzungsberichte der Bayerischen Akademie der 
Wissenschaften, Philosophisch-historische Abteilung, 1934, Heft 2. Munich: 
Bayerischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, 1934. 

[Vernani, Guido]. Matteini, Nevio. // pit antico oppositore politico di Dante: Guido 
Vernani da Rimini: Testo Critico del “De Reprobatione Monarchiae.” I Pensiero 
medievale collana di Storia della Filosofia, ser. 1, vol. 6. Padova: CEDAM-Casa 
Editrice Dott. Antonio Milani, 1958. 

Villani, Giovanni. Cronica. Ristampa dell’Edizione Originale. Firenze 1823. 9 vols. 
Roma: Multigrafica Editrice, 1980. 


Secondary Sources 

Baethgen, Friedrich. “Der Anspruch des Papsttums auf das Reichsvikariat: Untersuchung 
zur Theorie und Praxis der potestas indirecta in temporalibus.” Zeitschrift der 
Savigny-Stiftung fiir Rechtsgeschichte, Kanonistische Abteilung X, vol. 41, pt. 3. 
168-286. 

. “Die Entstehungzeit von Dantes Monarchia.” Sizungsberichte der Bayerische 
Akademie der Wissenschaften. Philosophisch-historische Klasse, Heft 5 ({Munich] 
Jahrgang 1966): 30-34. 

Bowsky, William M. Henry VII in Italy: The Conflict of Empire and City-State, 1310- 
1313. Lincoln, NB: U of Nebraska P, 1960; rpt. Westport, CT: Greenwood, 1974. 

Boyde, Patrick. Perception and Passion in Dante's Comedy. Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 
1993. 

Cassell, Anthony K. “Luna est Ecclesia: Dante and the ‘Two Great Lights.’” Dante 
Studies 119 (2001). 

d’Entréves, Alessandro Passerin. Dante as a Political Thinker. Oxford: Clarendon, 1952. 

Di Giannatale, Giovanni. “Alcune note a Mon. Ill, 4, 18, 20-21 e ad Ep. V, 30: 
Considerazioni sull’argomento della ‘illuminatio’ in Dante.” Aevum 52.2 (1978): 
317-21. 

Di Scipio, Giuseppe. “Dante and Politics.” The Divine Comedy and the Encyclopedia of 
Arts and Sciences: Acta of the International Dante Symposium, 13-16 November 
1983, Hunter College, New York. Ed. Giuseppe Di Scipio and Aldo Scaglione. 
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 1988. 267-84. 

Dolcini, Carlo. Crisi di poteri e politologia in crisi da Sinibaldo Fieschi a Guglielmo 
d’Ockham. I mondo medievale. Sezione di storia delle istituzioni, della spiritualita e 
delle idee 17. Bologna: Patron, 1988. 

Dupré Theseider, Eugenio. L’Idea imperiale di Roma nella tradizione del medioevo. 
Milano: Istituto per gli Studi di Politica Internazionale, 1942. 

Ferrante, Joan M. The Political Vision of the Divine Comedy. Princeton: Princeton UP, 
1984. 

Fortin, Ernest. Dissidence et philosophie au Moyen Age. Institut d’études médiévales 
Université de Montréal. Cahiers d’Etudes Médiévales 6. Montréal: Bellarmin; Paris: 
Vrin, 1981. 

Gratian [see note 26?] 

Heft, James. John XXII and Papal Teaching Authority. Texts and Studies in Religion 27. 
Lewiston: Edwin Mellen, 1986. 

Hugelmann, Karl Gottfried. “Die Wirkungen der Kaiserweihe nach dem Sachsenspiegel.” 





448 Anthony Cassell 


Zeitschrift der Savigny-Stiftung fiir Rechtsgeschichte. Kanonistische Abteilung IX. 
Vol. 40, pt. 3 (1919): 1-62. 

Kantorowicz, Ernst H[artwig]. The King’s Two Bodies. Princeton: Princeton UP, 1957. 
Rpt. with preface by William Chester Jordan, 1997. 

Kelsen, Hans. Die Staatslehre des Dante Alighieri. Vienna: Franze Deuticke, 1905. 
Trans. Wilifrido Sangiorgio. La teoria dello stato in Dante. Bologna: Massimiliano 
Boni, 1974. 

Koenig, John. “Guelphs and Ghibellines.” Dictionary of the Middle Ages 6: 6-7. 

Lucas, Henry Stephen. “The Low Countries and the Disputed Imperial Election of 1314.” 
Speculum 21 (1946): 72-114. 

Maccarrone, Michele. “Papato e impero nella Monarchia.” Nuove letture dantesche 8 
(1976): 259-332. 

. “Il terzo libro della Monarchia.” Studi danteschi 33 (1955): 5-142. 

Manselli, Raoul. “Dante e |’ecclesia spiritualis.” Dante e Roma: Atti del Convegno di 
Studi. A cura della “Casa di Dante,” sotto gli auspici del Comune di Roma, in 
collaborazione con |’Istituto di Studi Romani. Roma, 8-9-10 aprile 1965. Firenze: Le 
Monnier, 1965. 115-35. 

Martinelli, Bortolo. “Sul ‘quodammodo’ di Monarchia Ill, 15, 17.” Miscellanea in onore 
di Vittore Branca 1: Dal Medioevo al Petrarca. Biblioteca dell’“Archivum 
Romanicum.” Ser. 1. Storia-Letteratura-Paleografia 178 (1983): 1: 193-214. 

Matteini, Nevio. “Introduzione.” J/ pit antico oppositore politico di Dante: Guido 
Vernani da Rimini. Testo critico del “De Reprobatione Monarchiae.” I\ pensiero 
medievale, collana di storia della filosofia. Ser. 1, vol. 6. Padova: CEDAM-Casa 
Editrice Dott. Antonio Milani, 1958. 

Minio-Paluello, Lorenzo. “Tre note alla Monarchia.” Medioevo e Rinascimento: studi in 
onore di Bruno Nardi. Vol. 2. Firenze: Sansoni, 1955. 501-24. 

Mochi Onory, Sergio. Fonti canonistiche dell’idea moderna dello stato. Pubblicazioni 
dell’ Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, n.s. vol. 38. Milano: Societa Editrice 
“Vita e Pensiero,” 1951. 

Morris, Colin. The Papal Monarchy: The Western Church from 1050 to 1250. Oxford: 
Clarendon, 1989. 

Mollat, Guillaume. The Popes at Avignon, 1305-1387. Trans. Janet Love. London, 
Edinburgh: Thomas Nelson, 1963. 

Miller, Carl. Der Kampf Ludwigs des Baiern mit der rémischen Curie: Ein Breitrag zur 
kirchlichen Geschichte des 14. Jahrhunderts. 2 vols. Tiibingen: H. Laupp, 1879-80. 

Nardi, Bruno. Nel mondo di Dante. Roma: Edizioni di “Storia e Letteratura,” 1944. 

. Saggi e note di critica dantesca. Milano: Riccardo Ricciardi, 1966. 

. Dal Convivio alla Commedia (sei saggi danteschi). Roma: Istituto Storico 
Italiano per il Medio Evo, 1960. Ristampa anastatica dell’edizione, Roma, 1960, con 
premesso alla ristampa di Ovidio Capitani. Istituto Storico Italiano per il Medio Evo: 
Nuovi Studi Storici 18. Roma: Nella sede dell’ Istituto, 1992. 

Offler, H. S. “Empire and Papacy: The Last Struggle.” Transaction of the Royal 
Historical Society 5.6 (1956): 21-47. 

Padoan, Giorgio. “Il vicariato cesareo dello Scaligero: per la datazione dell’ Epistola a 
Cangrande.” Lettere italiane 50.2 (aprile-giugno 1998): 161-75. 

. “Alia utilia reipublice,’ la composizione della Monarchia di Dante [28 febbraio 
1998].” Letture classensi 28 (1999): 7-27. 


The Exiled Dante’s Hope for Reconciliation 449 


Pennington, Kenneth. The Prince and the Law, 1200-1600: Sovereignty and Rights in the 
Western Legal Tradition. Berkeley: U of California P, 1993. 

Reeves, Marjorie. “Marsiglio of Padua and Dante Alighieri.” Trends in Medieval 
Political Thought. Ed. Beryl Smalley. Oxford: B. Blackwell, 1965. 

Ricci, Pier Giorgio. “Dante e l’impero romano.” Dante e Roma: Atti del Convegno di 
Studi a cura della “Casa di Dante,” sotto gli auspici del Comune di Roma, in 
collaborazione con I’Istituto di Studi Romani, Roma, 8-9-10 aprile 1965. Firenze: Le 
Monnier, 1965. Pp. 137-149. 

. “La Monarchia dantesca e |’idea dell’Impero nella sua realta giuridica e politica 
al tempo di Dante.” // processo di Dante [Celebrato il 16 aprile 1966 nella Basilica 
di S. Francesco in Arezzo]. Ed. Dante Ricci. Firenze: Edizioni Arnaud, 1967. Pp. 
66-71. 

Salvatorelli, Luigi. L’/talia comunale dal secolo XI alla meta del secolo XIV. Storia 
d'Italia 4. Milano: Mondadori, 1940. 

Scholz, Richard. Die Publizistik zur Zeit Philipps des Schénen und Bonifaz VIII. 
Stuttgart: Ferdinand Enke, 1902. 

Simonelli, Maria Picchio.“L’inquisizione a Dante: alcune osservazioni.” Dante Studies 
97 (1979): 129-49; rpt. Dante Studies 118 (2000): 303-21. 

Sistrunk, Timothy G. “Obligations of the Emperor as the Reverent Son in Dante’s 
Monarchia.” Dante Studies 105 (1987): 95-112. 

Tabacco, Giovanni. La casa di Francia nell’azione politica di Papa Giovanni XXII. 
Istituto Storico per il Medio Evo, Studi storici, fasc. 1-4. Roma: Istituto Storico per 
il Medio Evo, 1953. 

van Cleve, T. C. The Emperor Frederick of Hohenstaufen. Oxford: Clarendon, 1972. 

Vinay, Gustavo. Interpretazione della Monarchia. Lectura Dantis Scaligera. Firenze: Le 
Monnier, 1962. 

Vossler, Karl. La Divina Commedia studiata nella sua genesi e interpretata, 1, pt. 2. 
Storia dello svolgimento etico-politico. Trans. S. Jacini. Bari: Laterza, 1910. 

Wilks, Michael. The Problem of Sovereignty in the Later Middle Ages: The Papal 
Monarchy with Augustinus Triumphus and the Publicists. Cambridge: UP, 1963. 





NOTES & REVIEWS 


Dante Alighieri, Rime, a cura di Domenico De Robertis, voll. 5 (“I documenti”, voll. 
I-II, pp. IX-LX, 431; 435-991; “Introduzione”, voll. III-IV , pp. 9-722, 723-1237; V, 
“Testi”, pp. 9-595), Firenze, Casa Editrice Le Lettere, 2002. 


Credo di essere un privilegiato per avere sullo scrittoio, ricevuti in omaggio, i cinque 
volumi delle Rime di Dante curate da Domenico De Robertis: mi ritengo tale perché 
questa monumentale opera vient de paraitre (é stata pubblicata alla fine di giugno) e forse 
& appena arrivata in libreria, per cui sento il dovere di segnalarla a tutti i dantisti e agli 
italianisti in generale, assidui lettori degli Annali d’Italianistica. Dico “segnalare” e non 
“recensire” perché lascio questo compito a chi ha maggiori compentenze per farlo, e se 
anche le avessi non ci sarebbe materialmente il tempo di esaminare le 2800 e pit pagine 
complessive di questi volumi, pagine in cui, se ne pud essere certi, non v’é una riga 
superflua. 

Grandi erano le aspettative, perché la meritoria edizione di Barbi, poi 
l’aggiornamento di Pernicone e in seguito |’edizione di Contini, impegnata sul versante 
del commento e non su quello ecdotico, avevano fatto il loro tempo: anche in filologia il 
tempo passa per erodere, benché sembri procedere con maggior lentezza che per altri 
lavori umani. E |’attesa é venuta crescendo per circa mezzo secolo, cioé fin da quando nel 
1957 Domenico De Robertis ebbe l’incarico dalla Societa Dantesca di censire i 
manoscritti delle rime dantesche in vista di un’edizione, e specialmente da quando 
comincid ad annunciare i primi risultati di questo immenso lavoro nel Censimento dei 
manoscritti delle rime di Dante, pubblicato negli “Studi Danteschi” tra il 1960 e il 1970. 
Imprese del genere hanno elementi da “scommessa”, non solo per dominare una materia 
cosi vasta e complessa ma anche per vivere il tempo necessario per portarle a termine, ¢€ 
purtroppo non é facile fare piani di longevita. Il curatore ha avuto la buona fortuna di 
vincere entrambe le difficolta, e con quest’ opera ci invita a partecipare di essa. 

I primi due volumi offrono il regesto e la descrizione dei manoscritti e delle stampe 
fino alla ristampa della Giuntina del 1532. Il primo volume de “I documenti” copre le 
sedi Austin-Firenze (Collezione del Marchese Paolo Ginori Venturi Lisci); e il secondo 
volume le sedi Genova-Wien. Segue una sezione dedicata ai manoscritti perduti o 
irreperibili, e quindi la sezione per le stampe. Chiudono il volume gli indici, curati da 
Giuseppe Marrani: indici dei nomi e delle opere anonime, dei copisti, e delle rime non 
dantesche, dei manoscritti non descritti, e infine delle rime di Dante e dei suoi 
corrispondenti “secondo |’ordine di Dante ’21” (ossia del testo critico pubblicato dalla 
Societa Dantesca nel 1921). Inutile dire che la completezza del censimento e la 
descrizione dei manoscritti costituisce uno strumento di lavoro fondamentale per chi si 
occupa della poesia del Due e del Trecento, e sara decisamente il lavoro pit affidabile 
venendo da uno studioso unanimemente ritenuto il massimo esperto in materia. 

Il secondo volume in due tomi costituisce la “Introduzione” in cui viene esaminata 
la tradizione dei testi. Il primo tomo contiene un solo capitolo dal titolo “La grande 
tradizione”, in cui si stabiliscono i rapporti genetici e di parentela tra i manoscritti in 
famiglie e delle famiglie tra di loro. E il lavoro pit delicato dell’ecdotica sul quale poi si 
costruisce l’edizione. Il secondo tomo contiene otto capitoli: II) “le canzoni del 
‘Convivio” ; III) “Le rime sparse”; IV) “La tradizione estravagante delle rime della ‘Vita 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


452 Notes & Reviews 


Nova’”; V) “Problemi di attribuzione: certezze, accertamenti, dubbi”; VI) “La tradizione 
editoriale”; VII) “L’ordinamento delle rime”; VIII) “Criteri generali d’edizione e veste 
formale”; IX) “I codici descritti”. Si tratta della parte pid importante di tutta l’opera 
perché |’edizione dipende dalle conclusioni raggiunte in questa sede. De Robertis non 
costruisce alcuno stemma, essendo impossibile mettere sullo stesso piano tradizioni 
unitarie cosi diverse come quella della Vita nova e del Convivio rispetto a quello delle 
Rime; cid non significa che |’edizione di ogni componimento non sia “critica”. 

I] terzo volume é dedicato all’edizione. Intanto l’ordine dei componimenti é quello 
discusso nel cap. VII dell’Introduzione, ed é diverso da quello proposto da altri editori. 
Ogni componimento ha una premessa filologica e gli apparati, pur essendo “strettamente 
negativi”, sono di facile consultazione. Non sono pochi i componimenti “restituiti a 
Dante”, a cominciare dalla canzone “Ai faus ris”. Manca il commento propriamente 
letterario, ma a prepararlo attende lo stesso De Robertis: lo attendiamo. 

Una recensore impegnato trovera illuminazioni, conferme e potra anche dissentire su 
qualche decisione, come accade per tutti i lavori di questa mole e che pili si avvicinano 
alla perfezione; ma é sicuro che da questo lavoro nessuno potra prescindere. II tempo 
dira, ma per il momento si ha |’impressione d’avere sul tavolo di lavoro un’opera di 
importanza epocale per gli studi danteschi. Per questo gli Annali d’Italianistica hanno 
voluto segnalarlo tempestivamente. 


Paolo Cherchi, University of Chicago 


Dante and His Translators: Dante Alighieri, Inferno, translated by Robert 
Hollander and Jean Hollander; introduction and notes by Robert Hollander, New 
York: Doubleday, 2000, pp. 634. 

Not one single year goes by, or so it seems, without the publication of a new English 
translation of one of Dante’s works. Let us just make very brief references to some of the 
translations of the so-called minor works of Dante: Dante’s lyrics poems (Joseph Tusiani, 
Brooklyn: LEGAS, 1992; 2000); the translation of Dante’s Vita nuova with facing Italian 
text (Notre Dame: U of Notre Dame P, 1995); the two translations of Monarchia (Prue 
Shaw, Cambridge: Cambridge UP, 1995; Richard Kay, Toronto: Pontifical Institute of 
Mediaeval Studies, 1998); and the Fiore (Christopher Kleinhenz and Santa Casciani, 
Notre Dame: U of Notre Dame P, 2000). 

As far as the Comedy is concerned, counting only what I have in my personal 
library, I can list the following: 1993, Dante’s Inferno: Translations by Twenty 
Contemporary Poets (Hopewell, NJ: Ecco Press), with notes (169-99) but no Italian text; 
1994, The Inferno of Dante, A Verse Translation by Robert Pinsky, illustrated by Michael 
Mazur, with Notes by Nicole Pinsky (377-427), foreword by John Freccero (xi-xix; New 
York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux), with facing Italian text; 1996, The Divine Comedy of 
Dante Alighieri, vol. 1, Inferno (New York: Oxford UP), edited and translated by Robert 
M. Durling, notes by Ronald L. Martinez and Robert M. Durling (a massive volume of 
654 pages); 2000, Purgatorio, a new verse translation by W. S. Merwin (New York: 
Knopf), with facing Italian text and notes (333-59). Finally, at the conclusion of the 
second millennium of the Christian era, there appears Robert and Jean Hollander’s new 
translation of Dante’s /nferno, with an introduction, facing Italian text, and notes. 


Annali d’italianistica 453 


One can easily understand the motivations that prompt recognized poets such as 
Pinsky and Merwin to put themselves to the test in rendering in English what Kenneth 
Clark called humankind’s greatest philosophical poem and what has become the greatest 
best-seller ever right after the Bible. At the same time, one cannot help but ask what 
reasons might prompt accomplished Dante scholars not only to provide a commentary to 
the Comedy, which is obviously the scholar’s task, but to embark on a journey as perilous 
as that of rendering in English Dante’s Comedy, which — let us not forget — has been 
called Divine for longer than four centuries (by Ludovico Dolce in 1555), thus making its 
translation in any language, as it were, rank among one of the many human impossibilia. 
Unquestionably, what spurs poets and scholars to confront themselves with Dante’s 
Comedy is neither hubris nor humility but rather their devotion to and their love for the 
great poet. And to all such poets and scholars all readers are much indebted. 

The genesis of the new translation, with commentary, by Robert and Jean Hollander 
is sufficiently described at the book’s beginning (“Note on the Translation” vii-ix). 
Making their own what Montaigne says of his Essays, the two translators state: “Reader, 
this is an honest book” (vii). Such straightforwardness is so unusual and striking that the 
readers who are not immediately won over by it may be at least disarmed by whatever 
prejudices they might have at first. The readers’ benevolence is further conquered by the 
additional disclaimers that follow: “This is not Dante, but an approximation [...]”; “Every 
translation begins and ends with failure” (vii); and finally, at the conclusion of the 
“Note”: “It is our hope that the reader will find this translation a helpful image to the 
untranslatable magnificence of Dante’s poem” (ix). In brief, the translation is viewed as a 
means to approach Dante himself in the Italian text, available to the reader next to the 
English version. 

The two translators’ “Note” provides further information worth the readers’ 
attention: “The accuracy of the translation from the Italian text established by Giorgio 
Petrocchi [...] has been primarily my [Robert Hollander’s] responsibility, its sound as 
English verse primarily that of the poet Jean Hollander [...]” (vii). That the two translators 
view their translation as poetry, in fact, is reiterated shortly below in the same 
introduction (“a new verse translation” vii); the same epithet (“A verse translation’’) also 
appears on the volume’s dust jacket, although it does not appear as part of the book’s 
title. 

Further comments in the “Note” emphasize the introductory statement concerning 
the book’s honesty. Thus credit is given to several Italian commentaries, especially that 
of Francesco Mazzoni and Bosco/Reggio, to the paraphrases provided by H. E. Tozer 
(1901), and to an earlier translation begun by Patrick Creagh and Robert Hollander. 
Moreover, the Hollanders profess their debt not only to Singleton’s but also to Sinclair’s 
translation (New York: Oxford UP, 1939). Such a straightforward avowal cannot but be 
much appreciated; at the same time, the two translators take it upon themselves to make 
Singleton recognize what he failed to do in his translation of the Comedy, as we read at 
the end of the first volume of Singleton’s six-volume translation and commentary: “[...] I 
have constantly kept before me a considerable number of other English translations [...]. I 
have incurred a great debt which, regretfully, cannot be acknowledged in any detail” 
(Inferno 1, “Note” 372). What no honest teacher and no honest scholar would consider 
permissible — namely, consulting and borrowing without quoting — Singleton thought 
he could do, and in fact he did without being faulted by his few reviewers. (E.g.: Morton 
W. Bloomfield, Speculum 48 [1973]: 127-29; Speculum 51 [1976]: 116; Speculum 52 


454 Notes & Reviews 


[1977]: 644-45; also: C. B. Beall, Comparative Literature 28 (1976): 164-65.) 
Strengthened by a temporal perspective, a review essay of Singleton’s six-volume Divine 
Comedy appeared in Annali ditalianistica 8 [1990]: 104-14, penned by Rocco Montano, 
who, among many other comments, reflects negatively on Singleton’s prose rendering of 
Dante’s masterpiece: “[...] una prosa preoccupata della fedelta ma del tutto incurante di 
rendere le sfumature formali, ritmiche, le variazioni del linguaggio, che pur fanno parte 
della poesia di un’ opera [...]” 105.) 

What is surprising and also refreshing, therefore, is that the Hollanders state 
categorically Singleton’s debt to Sinclair’s translation, although Singleton never 
acknowledges any of the borrowings he admits to in general terms. The Hollanders write: 
“To his [Singleton’s] credit, his changes [of Sinclair’s translation] are usually for the 
better; to his blame is his failure to acknowledge the frequency of his exact coincidence 
with Sinclair” (viii). The paragraph concludes with a forceful statement: “Let there be no 
mistake: the reason our translation seems to reflect Singleton’s, to the extent that it does, 
is that ours, on occasion, and Singleton’s, almost always, are both deeply indebted to 
Sinclair” (viii). 

Before verifying Singleton’s and the Hollanders’ debt to Sinclair, one might find it 
worthwhile trying to determine whether Sinclair, whose translation appeared in 1939, is 
indebted to any of his many predecessors. The fact is that Sinclair recognizes his 
“indebtedness to the commentaries” of many Italian, American, and British scholars, 
including the Temple editors (Sinclair’s 1977 reprint, Inferno, “Preface” 11-12); as to his 
translation, however, although he acknowledges borrowing “an occasional phrase from 
one or other” of his predecessors (/nferno, “Preface” 9), Sinclair singles out none, thus 
giving the impression that he hardly owes any debt to anyone, and regrettably proposing 
the same strategy of concealment to be followed a few decades later by Singleton. 

And yet, Sinclair’s indebtedness to the previous translators of Dante has already 
been recognized and outlined by scholars, primarily Gilbert F. Cunningham. In his two- 
volume study titled The Divine Comedy in English: A Critical Bibliography, vol. 1, 1782- 
1900; vol. 2, 1901-1966 (New York: Barnes & Noble, 1965 and 1967), Cunningham 
establishes Sinclair’s debt to (just to name a few of Dante’s prose translators) Charles 
Eliot Norton (“Sinclair’s version is nearer to Norton’s [1891-92] than to any other [...]” 
2:164) and the Temple Classics’ translators (2:166). At the same time, Cunningham 
reminds us that Norton himself “praises the prose versions of Carlyle, Dugdale 
[Purgatorio 1883], and Butler [Purg.1880; Par. 1891; Inf’ 1892], and acknowledges his 
indebtedness to the latter [...]” (1:160). Thus, as far as the J/nferno translation is 
concerned, the ancestral lineage links, in very broad lines, Singleton not only to Sinclair 
but also to Norton, Dugdale, Butler, and ultimately to John Aitken Carlyle (1801-1879), 
the younger brother of Thomas Carlyle. J. A. Carlyle’s translation first appeared in 1849 
and then in 1867 with some revisions and corrections (Cunningham 1:56); finally, with 
“less than a hundred changes” by H. Oelsner, Carlyle’s translation “now forms the first 
volume of the Temple Classics edition [first appeared in 1900] of the Divine Comedy” 
(Cunningham 1:51). Cunningham’s concluding lines on J. A. Carlyle’s translation should 
be etched in stone: “Like Cary [/nf. 1805-07; The Vision 1814] and Longfellow [1867], 
Carlyle has earned the right to have his name permanently linked with that of Dante 
among the English-speaking peoples” (1:51). 

This same very illustrious ancestry, whether acknowledged or unacknowledged, can 
thus be claimed, at least to a certain extent, by Robert and Jean Hollander’s translation of 





Annali d’italianistica 455 


the /nferno. The following quotation of the beginning of the Inferno (1:1-9) will help the 
reader understand the extent to which four translators, spanning two centuries, are 
inextricably linked together. 

Carlyle: 

In the middle of the journey of our life I came / to myself in a dark wood where the 
straight / way was lost. 

Ah! How hard a thing it is to tell what a wild,/ and rough, and stubborn wood this was, 
which / in my thought renews the fear! 

So bitter is it, that scarcely more is death: but / to treat of the good that I there found, I 
will / relate the other things that I discerned./ 

[In the above quotation, the slash indicates the end of the line, which equals the width of 
the page; in Carlyle’s translation available in the Temple Classics, each terzina, but not 
each verse, starts a new paragraph. ] 

Sinclair: 

In the middle of the journey of our life I came / to myself within a dark wood where the 
straight / way was lost. Ah, how hard a thing it is to tell of / that wood, savage and harsh 
and dense, the thought / of which renews my fear! So bitter is it that death / is hardly 
more. But to give account of the good / which I found there I will tell of the other things / 
I noted there./ 

[Sinclair marks a new paragraph, indenting the text, only two or three times per page; the 
above slashes indicate the end of the line, which equals the width of the page in Sinclair’s 
prose rendering. These same comments apply also to Singleton’s prose translation.] 
Singleton: 

Midway in the journey of our life I found / myself in a dark wood, for the straight way / 
was lost. Ah, how hard it is to tell what that wood was, wild, rugged, harsh; the very / 
thought of it renews the fear! It is so bitter / that death is hardly more so. But, to treat of / 
the good that I found in it, I will tell of the / other things I saw there./ 

[The term “midway” appears in Cary’s translation — “In the midway of this our mortal 
life” — and also in Longfellow’s: “Midway upon the journey of our life.”] 

Hollander: 

Midway in the journey of our life 

I came to myself in a dark wood, 

for the straight way was lost. 


Ah, how hard it is to tell 
the nature of that wood, savage, dense and harsh — 
the very thought of it renews my fear! 


It is so bitter death is hardly more so. 
But to set forth the good I found 
I will recount the other things I saw. 


What can be briefly said about these four translations is that, once their authors 
decide to pursue accuracy and readability above any other characteristic — and such was, 
according to Cunningham, the goal of Carlyle (1:47), Butler (1:148-52), Norton (1:160), 
and Sinclair (2:166) —, then the translation is, as Singleton rightly points out, “doomed 
to display a coincidence of phraseology with other translations at every turn, and it would 


456 Notes & Reviews 


be a mistake to seek to avoid this and try to make one’s effort strictly ‘original’” (The 
Divine Comedy, trans. with a comm. by Charles S. Singleton, Inferno, vol. 1, Italian Text 
and Translation, Princeton: Princeton UP, 1970, “Note” 372). 

Thus, unavoidably linked to such an illustrious translators’ lineage, the Hollanders’ 
“verse translation” can lay claim to accuracy as well readability. At the same time, the 
two translators, by linking their work to at least two of the prose translations mentioned 
above — Singleton’s and Sinclair's — seem to invite the readers to ask a question for 
which I have been unable to find an answer in their volume, namely: How can the 
Hollanders’ rendering of the /nferno be called “a verse translation” while at the same 
time pursuing not only “maximum readability with complete fidelity” (dust jacket) but 
also a direct connection with two prose translations? Among recent translators of the 
Inferno in verse, Robert Pinsky, for instance, premises his work with a “Translator’s 
Note” in which he lays down the principles of his poetic rendering (xxi-xxiv). Other 
fairly recent translators — e.g., Mark Musa, Allen Mandelbaum, and even the twenty 
contemporary poets of Dante's Inferno of the Ecco Press — offer some guidelines as to 
what kind of verse the reader might expect. Since the Hollanders’ translation is not terza 
rima, any modified rhyme scheme thereof (Pinsky), or blank verse (Musa; Mandelbaum), 
it is perhaps free verse. I, for one, would have certainly welcomed some explanations 
about the kind of verse the Hollanders employ or the poetic principles at work in their 
translation. 

And yet, although the two translators have not sought, regrettably, to shed any light 
on the poetic principles concerning the art of translation they have pursued, their “new 
verse translation” lays claim to another merit that furthers that of fidelity; namely, it is a 
line-by-line rendering of Dante’s poem. Here I must add that the Hollanders’ decision to 
provide a line-by-line rendering makes their translation far preferable, both poetically and 
visually, to that of Singleton and Sinclair, whose prose renderings fill so densely each 
inch of their pages as if they sought to exorcize totally Dante’s poeticality from the 
unaware reader’s mind. I would also like to add that the Hollanders’ decision to render 
Dante’s terzina line by line is also preferable, at least in this reviewer’s mind, to Robert 
M. Durling’s prose translation of the Inferno, which, while beginning a new paragraph 
for each terzina, does not do so at each line of Dante’s original. At the same time, 
Durling’s decision to start a new paragraph at each new terzina is preferable to 
Singleton’s and Sinclair’s prose translations, which typically contain no more than three 
spatial and visual breaks per page. 

The reference to Durling’s translation of the /nferno is of paramount importance 
because the accompanying commentary (penned by Martinez and Durling) cannot but 
constitute a term of comparison for that of Robert Hollander, just as Singleton’s is for 
these two recent volumes. 

With the publication of so many commentaries in English in the 1970s (Singleton), 
in the 1980s (Mark Musa, whose work in part appeared in the 1970s and now replaces the 
venerable Dorothy Sayers’s terza rima translation in the Penguin Series; Allen 
Mandelbaum), and finally in the 1990s (Durling/Martinez; Hollander), English-speaking 
people have at their disposal a wealth of information that by far surpasses what is 
available to the French and German readers and that, in fact, compares well to the 
countless commentaries available to the Italian public. The commentaries to Dante’s 
Comedy listed immediately above, despite their differences in approach, are all highly 
commendable and informative, whether the first-time reader of Dante relies exclusively 


Annali d’italianistica 457 


on a single commentary or the veteran and consummate scholar consults several or all of 
them. The attributes of the commentaries by Singleton and Musa, because of the lapse of 
time since their first appearance, are well-known. Although Musa’s glosses may strike us 
at times as subjective, they are far less so than those of the Dorothy Sayers’s Penguin 
edition that Musa’s volumes have replaced. (To Musa’s merit, his blank-verse translation 
is also arranged in triplets, which read smoothly and also commend themselves for their 
originality.) In contrast to Musa’s, Singleton’s three-volume commentary is striking, on 
the one hand, for its lack of aesthetic and hermeneutical interpretations of the text, and, 
on the other, for the wealth of information, including countless quotations of primary 
sources, that provide the reader with the essential historical, textual, philosophical, and 
also theological elements needed to the text’s proper understanding. The fact that the 
information provided by Singleton is by and large already available in Italian 
commentaries, either through bibliographic references or direct quotations of primary 
sources (e.g., Scartazzini-Vandelli) hardly detracts from the usefulness of the information 
he provides in his commentary. In spite of, or precisely because of, its brevity, 
Mandelbaum’s glosses, written in collaboration with several Dante scholars, are always 
extremely useful and in most instances very satisfactory for either classroom use with 
undergraduate students or the first-time reader of the Comedy. 

The two commentaries that have appeared in the second half of the 1990s — i.e., 
Martinez/Durling’s and Hollander’s — belong, however, in a totally different category. 
While providing much of the background information already available in Singleton’s 
commentary, the extensive glosses penned by Martinez/Durling (further enhanced by 
“Additional Notes” 551-83) and by Robert Hollander fill the interpretive and exegetical 
gaps present in Singleton’s commentary. Both commentaries, in fact, seek to go beyond 
the positivistic nature of Singleton’s work, and both offer, put simply, much food for 
thought, drawn from their authors’ vast knowledge of American and European Dante 
scholarship, which they have tested over several decades of classroom teaching and 
personal research. 

Also, both Robert Hollander and Martinez/Durling ought to be praised for their 
humility in introducing their commentaries. The two latter scholars very modestly present 
their commentary as a tool for “readers approaching the poem for the first time” (vi), 
while Robert Hollander also seems to have in mind “any first-time reader of the poem, or 
any reader at all” (xxii). And yet, readers, beware: These two volumes constitute a first- 
rate commentary comparable or even superior to most Italian commentaries, whose 
intended audience consists typically of high-school students (/iceo, or equivalent 
secondary schools). At the same time, although the authors of both commentaries rely, 
for their exegesis, on the centuries-old tradition of commentary commenced right after 
Dante’s death, they are also very open to international and specifically North-American 
Dante scholarship. Thus, just as Singleton’s commentary can be commended for its 
positivistic character and neutral information, but chided for its lack of textual 
hermeneutics, the abundant presence of textual hermeneutics in the two commentaries by 
Martinez/Durling and by Hollander guide and challenge the reader at the same time. 
Also, while both commentaries display an in-depth knowledge of the critical literature 
written in Italian (at times mediated via the six-volume Enciclopedia dantesca), 
secondary sources in English seem to play a major role in the text’s exegesis. And yet, 
readers should not look for comprehensive bibliographies in either volumes: there are 
only 30 pages listing the secondary works cited in Hollander’s notes (604-34) and only 


458 Notes & Reviews 


16 pages listing the “Modern Works” quoted in the Martinez/Durling’s commentary. 
Consequently, exclusions of studies in either Italian or English, even of scholars who 
professed or profess in North America, are by necessity plentiful. For instance, although 
Hollander’s bibliography lists several essays by Amilcare Iannucci, it does not contain 
the latter’s Forma ed evento nella Divina Commedia (Roma: Bulzoni, 1974), while the 
Martinez/Durling’s commentary lists no study whatsoever by the same Canadian Dante 
scholar. Again, Rocco Montano’s Storia della poesia di Dante (Napoli: Quaderni di 
Delta, 1962) is listed by Hollander but not by Martinez-Durling; and finally, neither 
commentary mentions any of the Dante volumes and essays by Tibor Wlassics, Ricardo 
J. Quinones, and many others as well. Obviously, neither volume can be seriously faulted 
for these gaps in their bibliographies, apart from any considerations whether a more 
comprehensive use of the critical literature could have enhanced the commentators’ 
exegesis. Suffice it to say, nevertheless, that these two North-American commentaries of 
Dante’s Inferno provide the reader with more extensive commentaries and ampler 
bibliographies than their Italian counterparts, e.g., the three-volume Divina commedia 
edited by Umberto Bosco and Giovanni Reggio (Firenze: Le Monnier, 1988), referenced 
in both commentaries. 

Finally, I would like briefly to discuss an issue that is central to the understanding of 
Dante’s Comedy as a narrative, and that is also very much at the core of so much Dante 
criticism in Europe and America (e.g.: Teodolinda Barolini, The Undivine Comedy: 
Detheologizing Dante, Princeton: Princeton UP, 1992), and thus, also, of the Hollanders’ 
work. Let me state the obvious: The first cantica narrates a story, to be continued in the 
Purgatorio and finally concluded in the Paradiso. Divided into 34 cantos, this story’s 34 
beginnings, endings, and everything in between, because of their intrinsic nature and the 
work’s manuscript character, continuously hark back and echo each other throughout the 
first cantica and beyond. In brief, Dante the author invites us to read his story as a 
narrative continuum, to be understood and pondered from beginning to end. By contrast, 
the Hollanders’ /nferno (and so also that of Durling and Martinez, of Musa, and so many 
others, but not that of Mandelbaum and Singleton) forces the reader to stop, time and 
again, 34 times. Thus, after reading Jnferno 1, in Italian, English, or both (2-11), the 
reader cannot continue sharing the Pilgrim’s story narrated in /nferno 2 (22-31) without 
first going through, or at least thumbing through, the eight-page commentary separating 
the two cantos (12-20), which are also preceded, like all the others, by a useful one-page 
“Outline” (1; 21). One cannot but hope that the commentary, as extensive as the story 
itself whose meaning it is called upon to elucidate, will not discourage the first-time 
reader it intends to serve. 

In summary: Robert and Jean Hollander’s new translation, with commentary, of 
Dante’s Inferno (as well as that by Durling and Martinez) have much to be commended 
for, and both will be extremely useful not only to the first-time reader of Dante but also to 
the scholar. Both would have received this reviewer’s full endorsement if their extensive 
commentaries had been printed at the end of the entire text of Dante’s /nferno. As it is, 
the Dantean story is regrettably slowed down by an otherwise highly commendable 
commentary, which, while explaining the Dantean text eminently well, time and again 
interrupts Dante’s unified story, which symphonically plays out its music in the 34 
closely and inextricably arranged cantos of the first cantica. 

Dino S. Cervigni, The University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 


ITALIAN BOOKSHELF 
Edited by Dino S. Cervigni and Anne Tordi with the collaboration of 
Norma Bouchard, Paolo Cherchi, Gustavo Costa, Albert N. Mancini, 
Massimo Maggiari, and John P. Welle. 


Augusto Fraschetti (a cura di). Roman Women. Traduzione di Linda Lappin. 
Chicago: U of Chicago P, 2001. Pp. 237. 

Il volume é la traduzione dall’originale “Roma al femminile” (Bari: Laterza, 1994), 
ultimo esponente di una collana dedicata alle biografie di celebri donne della storia, che 
comprende altri quattro saggi riguardanti rispettivamente il mondo greco, il Medioevo, il 
Rinascimento e il Barocco. Si tratta in tutti i casi di raccolte di vari contributi, precedute 
da un’introduzione generale del curatore. Nel volume in esame, |’intera storia di Roma, 
dalla repubblica al tardo impero, viene ripercorsa attraverso |’attenta e minuziosa analisi 
di alcuni personaggi femminili di rilievo: la vestale Claudia, protagonista del prodigio 
legato alla traslazione della dea Cibele a Roma, la nobile Cornelia, madre dei Gracchi, 
Fulvia e Licoride, rispettivamente moglie legittima e concubina del celebre Marco 
Antonio, Livia, moglie dell’imperatore Augusto, Perpetua, la cristiana che narro il 
proprio martirio, Elena, madre dell’imperatore Costantino, Ipazia, filosofa vittima 
dell’intolleranza dei cristiani di Alessandria e infine Melania, la ricca matrona che volle 
farsi santa. 

Nell’ambito degli studi sulla storia delle donne in Occidente, con particolare 
riguardo al mondo antico, il volume di Fraschetti si pone con una nuova impostazione: 
non pil generica indagine sulla condizione femminile nell’antichita, ampiamente 
indagata a partire dagli anni ’70 sull’onda del movimento femminista, ma tentativo di 
costruire una vera e propria “prosopografia al femminile” secondo i metodi e i principi 
dell’indagine storica attuale, liberando il campo dai pregiudizi e dagli elementi leggendari 
che hanno accompagnato per secoli alcune celebri donne del passato. 

L’introduzione generale di Augusto Fraschetti, rinnovata rispetto a quella 
dell’edizione italiana, rileva chiaramente le difficolta di tale operazione e la stessa scelta 
di donne celebri ne costituisce la conseguenza pill evidente. Storicamente le donne furono 
sempre condannate al silenzio. Nel mondo romano, in particolare, era considerato 
sconveniente per una donna rispettabile essere oggetto di una notorieta che oltrepassasse 
le mura domestiche e il ricordo dei congiunti. Le centinaia di stele funerarie, le pitture, gli 
oggetti muliebri restituiti dagli scavi archeologici sono quasi sempre testimonianze mute 
di vite per noi irrimediabilmenie perdute. Attraverso fonti archeologiche e letterarie, di 
queste donne possiamo soltanto ricostruire la giornata-tipo, dedicata all’assolvimento di 
mansioni domestiche, o tuttalpid l’articolarsi delle varie fasi della vita, col passaggio 
dallo status di puella a quello di uxor e di matrona. Si avverte ovviamente |’estrema 
genericita di queste nozioni. Di singole donne romane e delle loro vicende biografiche si 
parld esclusivamente nella misura in cui la loro vita si legd a quella di uomini celebri 
dell’antichita, sorte che, soprattutto nell’eta pil antica, toccava a ricche esponenti 
dell’aristocrazia. Tuttavia, anche in questo caso, per le prime fasi della repubblica, pit 
che con vere e proprie biografie, ci dobbiamo confrontare con degli exempla, con figure 
paradigmatiche, divenute simboli viventi di virtt femminili. E questo il caso di Claudia, 
la cui identita fu addirittura confusa dalle fonti fra due rappresentanti della nobile gens 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


460 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Claudia, una matrona e una vestale. Ed é anche il caso della celeberrima Cornelia, figlia 
di Scipione |’Africano e madre di Tiberio e Caio Gracco: la sua figura, per quanto nota, é 
costruita attraverso alcuni aneddotti paradigmatici che ne fanno una sorta di monumento 
alla pudicitia, la cui vicenda personale va faticosamente ricavata per deduzione, cercando 
di superare la staticita monolitica a cui le fonti hanno condannata. 

Tra la fine della repubblica e il primo impero le cose cambiarono: il gioco politico, 
con la sua rete di obblighi, favori e amicizie permise ad alcune esponenti dell’aristocrazia 
romana di essere personaggi della storia tout court e non soltanto della storia delle donne. 
E il caso di figure femminili che ebbero un’ingerenza diretta sugli affari pubblici, come 
Fulvia e Livia, ma che, proprio per questo, condivisero il giudizio negativo degli antichi e 
di alcuni moderni, passando alla storia l’una come avida e crudele, |’altra come abile 
avvelenatrice. In questo stesso clima approdo alla storia anche una figura come Licoride, 
attrice-cortigiana che deve la propria fama, non certamente lusinghiera, ai celebri amanti 
a cui si accompagno: Bruto, Marco Antonio e Cornelio Gallo, che la cantd col nome di 
Citeride. 

L’avvento del Cristianesimo, almeno nelle sue fasi iniziali, cred nuove figure e 
nuovi spazi anche per le donne: nascono le martiri e le sante, nasce |’agiografia, che, 
aldila degii intenti celebrativi, registra con una certa precisione alcune biografie 
femminili. E il caso di Perpetua, che, in modo del tutto eccezionale, narra in prima 
persona gli eventi che precedettero il suo martirio, o di Melania, il cui carattere ostinato e 
esibizionista, pur nella autenticita della vocazione, emerge con chiarezza ben oltre gli 
intenti del suo biografo ufficiale. Il Cristianesimo modifica anche la fama delle donne di 
potere: la conversione dell’imperatrice Elena mise rapidamente a tacere alcune notizie 
non particolarmente onorevoli, quali le umili origini di locandiera o il sospetto di avere 
deciso la morte della nuora e l’esilio dei figliastri. Qualche secolo prima la sua figura 
sarebbe rientrata a pieno titolo nel cliché dell’imperatrice protagonista di intrighi di corte; 
le fonti cristiane ne fecero soprattutto la venerabile madre di Costantino, alla quale si 
attribui il (falso) ritrovamento della vera croce. 

Interessante infine il caso di una martire pagana, Ipazia, insegnante di filosofia 
presso Alessandria d’Egitto, erede della scuola di Plotino, barbaramente uccisa dai 
cristiani e screditata dalle fonti, fino alla sua totale riabilitazione da parte del pensiero 
laico e illuminista. Ancora una volta, una rigorosa indagine storica fa giustizia delle 
mistificazioni che si sono avvicendate nel tempo, ridefinendo il ruolo storico di una 
figura che fu vittima, anche dopo la morte, della propria eccezionalita. 

L’impostazione scientifica e filologica dell’opera non sottrae fascino ai personaggi, 
che anzi ne esce rafforzato, rendendo la lettura un approfondimento tanto necessario 
quanto godibile nello studio dell’antichita. Sullo sfondo di queste biografie, si svolge 
l’intera vicenda di Roma, quella della storia ufficiale e quella della storia privata, che 
possiamo soltanto immaginare. Volendo fare un bilancio, come si pud definire la figura 
della donna a Roma? Come rileva lo stesso Fraschetti, tanto si é scritto sull’argomento, 
giungendo a conclusioni diametralmente opposte, a seconda delle fonti a cui si accorda la 
priorita. Occorre inoltre tenere conto del fatto che la condizione della donna conobbe una 
certa evoluzione attraverso i secoli, come il testo in esame dimostra ampiamente. 
L’autore ritiene possibile una valutazione soltanto in relazione alle altre civilta del 
Mediterraneo, quali quella greca e quella italica, etrusca in particolare. In tale sede, 
soprattutto in previsione di un’opera rivolta ad un pubblico non esclusivamente 
specialistico, sarebbe forse stato opportuno qualche ulteriore chiarimento sulla 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 461 


condizione della donna greca e, ancora di piu, su quella della donna etrusca, considerando 
la rilevanza che le viene riservata dallo stesso autore, magari facendo riferimento ai 
cataloghi delle mostre pit recenti . Il pericolo di fraintendimenti ¢ sempre in agguato e il 
cliché di una donna etrusca libera ed emancipata rischia di essere ancora in voga presso 
’opinione pubblica, nonostante gli studi dell’ultimo ventennio abbiano cercato di 
distinguere fra gli elementi a nostra disposizione e i pregiudizi degli antichi. Certo, 
leggendo il volume di Fraschetti, non si pud che rimpiangere ancora di piu la perdita di 
fonti letterarie etrusche e italiche e gli innumerevoli ritratti mancati, di cui possiamo 
cogliere il riflesso soltanto nei corredi funerari. 

Carlotta Bendi, Universita degli Studi di Bologna 


Gigetta Dalli Regoli. I/ gesto e la mano. Convenzione e invenzione nel linguaggio 
figurativo fra Medioevo e Rinascimento. Firenze: Olschki, 2000. Pp. 82. 
La Santa Lucia di Michele Agnolo di Pietro sulla copertina di questo volume agisce da 
peritesto a questo studio della Dalli Regoli in cui illustrazioni e commenti si rimandano 
reciprocamente, intessendo un unicum organico e compatto. Stimolato dall’illustrazione 
in copertina, il lettore viene subito invitato a scorrere le numerose tavole in fondo al 
volume per poi iniziare, tramite il sussidio della introduzione e dei cinque capitoli che 
vanno a comporre il testo-commento, il viaggio di scoperta nell’iconografia caratterizzata 
dalla presenza della mano e del suo rapporto con gli altri elementi del quadro. La mano 
assume una varieta di funzioni e di posizioni che ne determinano la importanza vis-a-vis 
il resto del corpo e le altre componenti dell’opera; come dice, giustamente, la Dalli 
Regoli, la mano “offre o afferra, colpisce 0 accarezza, solleva o depone, e inoltre 
accoglie, indica, richiama, respinge, oppure evidenzia inerzia e sospensione di 
movimento, e con tutto cid contribuisce in modo determinante alla comunicazione” (9). 
La studiosa circoscrive la disamina al binomio gesto-mano, gesto-braccio; nella prima 
parte dell’introduzione vengono esaminati, in ordine cronologico, alcuni dei pit 
significativi trattati attinenti al linguaggio visivo: dal Libro dell’arte del Cennini di fine 
Trecento agli studi del Della Porta e di altri Seicentisti. Da questa panoramica si evincono 
i parametri che sottendono i capitoli che seguono: “la rappresentazione del gesto filtrata 
attraverso |’interpretazione dell’artista, nonché [il] rapporto tra gestualita e contesto” 
(22). 

I titoli dei capitoli che seguono indicano la tematica che vi sara illustrata con dovizia 
di esempi; dal primo, “Nodi di mani: incontri e scontri, raccoglimento, preghiera, pianto”, 
si vogliono selezionare due opere. I Mori del Monumento di Pietro Tacca (Livorno, 
1615-30, figg. 41, 42), giganti le cui mani sono incatenate dietro la schiena, sono una 
vivida e impressionante testimonianza di come le mani stanno a raffigurare la prigionia e 
come il rapporto tra le mani e la muscolatura dei corpi sta a indicare lo sforzo che 
imprimono alle catene nel vano tentativo di spezzarle. L’autore ha inciso per quattro volte 
la propria firma sul podio su cui si trovano i Mori, quasi a ribadire la sua dichiarazione, 
da artista e da cittadino, dei principi di liberta simboleggiati dalla statua. Ad 
esemplificare il pianto, l’affetto, il cordoglio che collegano i vari attanti in una serie di 
quadri dal tema religioso, basti ricordare due opere di Giovanni Bellini: la Pieta di Brera 
(1460-65) e quella della Pinacoteca Vaticana (1465-70). L’intreccio di mani porta lo 
sguardo a soffermarsi prima su di esse e poi sui personaggi presenti: nel primo caso le 


462 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


mani, squarciate dai chiodi, sono messe in risalto da quelle vive che sorreggono il corpo 
del Cristo (fig. 27), mentre nel secondo la mancanza di visibili ferite sulle mani invita, in 
una spirale ascendente, a soffermarsi prima sulla ferita del costato e poi sull’espressione 
di dolore del Cristo deposto. Alquanto differente é la casistica del capitolo intitolato 
“L’atto di sorreggere, mostrare, offrire’ in cui la serenita e pacatezza dei temi 
rappresentati pud essere simboleggiata dalla Madonna con S. Anna del Masaccio (1424- 
25, fig. 54) dove le mani tengono in una posizione di primo piano il figlio paffutello che 
comunica il suo rapporto con la madre appoggiando la manina sinistra sul braccio destro 
della Madonna mentre la destra é alzata in segno di benedizione ma anche di gentile 
comando. 

II capitolo dal titolo “La mano e il libro” € anticipato dagli esempi che si trovano in 
quello precedente intitolato “La mano enfatizzata”; qui troviamo — oltre al famoso 
Giovane con medaglione di Sandro Botticelli (fig. 87) — due quadri di Carlo Crivelli in 
cui il libro occupa la parte centrale. Nel primo (fig. 96) il libro é tenuto da una sola mano, 
quella sinistra, le cui dita (specie l’indice e il medio) afferrano il volume e lo stringono al 
petto con forza; simultaneamente la destra descrive, tramite l’apertura enfatizzata della 
mano (come si fa quando si gioca alla morra), un gesto che porta lo sguardo ad alzarsi e 
posarsi sulla mano sinistra e da qui sul viso del lettore rivolto verso |’alto. Alquanto 
diversa é l’atmosfera del secondo quadro (fig. 97) in cui un chierico si concentra su un 
libro tenuto aperto da ambedue le mani; in questo quadro regna la pace e la tranquillita. 
Dalli Regoli introduce questo capitolo sulla mano e il libro con una attenta precisazione 
tematica a distinguere tra il Medioevo, quando il libro in questione é solitamente un 
codice di proporzioni medio-grandi che richiama i volumi della Sacra Scrittura, e i secoli 
successivi quando “il libriccino che sta in mano é soprattutto il libro di ore privato, e 
dunque evoca la preghiera, la devozione, il rispetto della parola divina” (51); basti qui 
ricordare l’Annunciazione di Simone Martini (figg. 106, 107). In quest’ opera il corpo di 
Maria é quasi totalmente nascosto dai drappi della veste ma la mano sinistra é scoperta e 
trattiene un volumetto; tra le pagine di questo ha inserito il pollice a uso di segna-libro. 
Simile é la funzione della mano nella Madonna Alba di Raffaello (fig. 108). Ma la mano 
‘segna-libro’ viene dipinta anche per segnalare la presenza di testi non sacri; per esempio, 
nel ritratto di Ugolino Martelli del Bronzino il personaggio raffigurato segue con un dito 
il testo dell’//iade mentre con |’altra mano sorregge un libro del Bembo (fig. 120); e, 
sempre del Bronzino, é il ritratto della poetessa Laura Battiferri (fig. 121) che indica con 
una mano dalle dita lunghe e affusolate un sonetto del Petrarca. 

Nell’ultimo capitolo, “Il braccio e la mano”, Dalli Regoli passa in rassegna alcuni 
quadri in cui il personaggio alza il braccio per attirare su di sé |’attenzione. Fra le 
soluzioni pili rappresentative di tema religioso si ricorda la Deposizione nel sepolcro (fig. 
133) del Mantegna dove la Madonna é raffigurata con le braccia tese in aria e le palme 
delle mani rivolte al cielo mentre tra quelle profane si segnala Storie di Venere (fig. 137) 
di un collaboratore di Lorenzo di Credi dove la posizione delle mani ha due funzioni: una 
vicina al corpo, a protezione del seno destro, mentre la sinistra vuole allontanare con tutto 
il braccio l’avvicinarsi di Eros. Con queste ed altre osservazioni sulle varianti del tema 
del braccio e della mano nell’opera di un gran numero di artisti, si chiude questo attraente 
volume della Dalli Regoli. Il volume é corredato di una ricca e aggiornata bibliografia e 
di un indice di nomi che facilita la consultazione dei passi relativi agli autori citati e, indi, 
delle tavole fuori testo. 

Bruno Ferraro, University of Auckland 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 463 


L. Scorrano, Il Dante “fascista”. Saggi, letture, note dantesche, Ravenna, Longo, 
2001. 

Il volume raccoglie una serie sostanzialmente omogenea di contributi saggistici dedicati 
alla storia della interpretazione dantesca, secondo una duplice ma complementare e 
contigua direttiva di ricerca. La serie di letture dantesche “istituzionali”, con scoperti fini 
divulgativi ma corredate anche da approfondimenti critici e nuove prospettive teoriche 
(cfr. ‘Inferno’ XIII: un orizzonte di negazione 9-28; Dall’abbandono alla bonta 
riconquistata (‘Purgatorio’ III), 29-50; «per aquella valor». Il canto XXVI del 
‘Purgatorio’ 51-68) viene avvicendata — previo un intervento di transizione 
oculatamente inserito a fungere da diaframma tra le due sezioni distinte dell’opera e 
riguardante la libera reinterpretazione e riscrittura letteraria del poema nell’autobiografia 
di Cellini (cfr. «Gli ha letto Dante». Occasioni dantesche nella ‘Vita’ del Cellini, 68-88) 
— da una batteria di saggi dedicati alla intertestualita dantesca nella letteratura italiana 
novecentesca, che si riconduce alle precedenti pubblicazioni dell’autore relative alla 
presenza retorica e lessicologica del vocabolario della Commedia e delle altre opere 
dell’Alighieri nel linguaggio critico e letterario e nel costume culturale contemporaneo: 
basti citare a titolo esemplificativo Presenza verbale di Dante nella letteratura italiana 
del Novecento (1994) e Tra il “banco” e “I’alte rote”. Letture e note dantesche (1996). 

Scorrendo i titoli dei capitoli dedicati alla risonanza del repertorio semantico, 
filosofico e poetico dantesco nel secolo scorso, passiamo in rassegna in via prioritaria // 
Dante “fascista”, saggio che ovviamente ispira il titolo del volume, per ovvie ragioni di 
carattere editoriale dovute alla valenza etico-politica centrale del contrasto tra il padre 
della letteratura universale, artefice di un disegno teologico e cosmologico di portata 
antropologica soprannazionale ed ecumenica e fautore di una concezione organica ed 
unitaria del sapere enciclopedico globale, e la perentoria svolta nazionalistica ed 
autarchica, angustamente campanilistica, imposta dai commentatori danteschi 
politicizzati ed indottrinati di assolutismo ideologico nella celebrazione ridondante ed 
unilaterale della sua figura civile di imperterrito difensore della tradizione culturale 
italiana (89-125). Scorrano ricostruisce abilmente le fila logiche e strategiche di questa 
strombazzante distorsione interpretativa, ostentatamente antistorica e filologicamente 
inconsistente, condotta all’insegna della pit sfacciata e forzata destoricizzazione del 
pensiero filosofico dantesco, sovrapposto nel contraffatto immaginario simbolico della 
informazione ufficiale ai fermenti nazionalistico-imperialistici mutuati dalla eredita 
risorgimentale e manipolato in vista della preordinata, cieca e totale fascisticizzazione del 
creatore dell’ineffabile ed indecifrabile mito figurale del veltro. La deliberata 
strumentalizzazione ideologica di questo passo cruciale per l’esegesi della Commedia 
degenera persino nelle artificiose e incongrue patenti di precursore dell’imperialismo e di 
preconizzatore legittimante dell’avvento hitleriano, fabbricate artatamente e 
fraudolentemente dalla monolitica e centripeta macchina propagandistica del regime. 

Si succedono quindi in linea di continuita tematica e prospettica Dantismo 
‘trasversale’ di Sereni (127-67); Luca Mansi quasi Bonconte, sulla ascendenza 
morfologica letteraria dantesca di un personaggio di Moravia (168-80); Dante, Piovene e 
‘Le stelle fredde’, unico inedito della silloge, (181-96); Microdramma “dantesco” in un 
romanzo di Alberto Bevilacqua, eletto a epigrafica ma pregnante nota conclusiva e 
investito di una plusvalenza quasi emblematica dell’intero percorso esegetico itinerante 
(197-201). 

Scorrano rimane fedele all’indicazione metodologica basilare che consiste nel 


464 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


ricercare, registrare e ordinare, secondo la teoria della ricezione comparata nella sua 
doppia diramazione diacronica e sincronica, le tracce della sterminata e plurisecolare 
Odissea intertestuale e metatestuale toccata al monumentum letterario per eccellenza. Vale 
la pena di citare la premessa dell’autore che sintetizza tutto il suo modus operandi 
anticonvenzionale e scettico rispetto alle dottrine interpretative tradizionali, pretenziose e 
totalizzanti rispetto alla polisemia illimitata insita nell’architesto letterario per eccellenza 
del canone occidentale: “La ‘Lectura Dantis’, se la si consideri fuori da irrigidimenti 
istituzionali o da configurazioni di un liturgismo ripetitivo e la si guardi invece come una 
delle pit libere flessibili forme di accostamento al testo del poeta, si configura non 
vincolata dalle strettoie di un “genere’ particolare ma aperta a un’ariosa frequentazione 
del testo, sicché in essa si possono scegliere percorsi differenti e praticare modi di 
approccio ciascuno in sé plausibile e tutti insieme concorrenti a una fervida esplorazione 
della pagina dantesca. [...] Oggi che nuovi modi della lettura s’impongono 0, solo, si 
propongono é possibile scorgere con chiarezza quanto giovi quella liberta di trattamento e 
a consentire al lettore di utilizzare una sua particolare chiave d’accesso al testo di cui 
voglia proporre un’interpretazione globale o solo illuminare alcuni caratteri”. (7). 

Con questa misura metodologica duttile e disponibile a slittare dall’esegesi testuale 
all’accertamento delle molteplici filiazioni storico-culturali di un testo irriducibile ad una 
prospettiva interpretativa univoca, Scorrano evidenzia sempre pil dichiaratamente il 
disegno metaletterario e metacritico ad un tempo, gia parzialmente perseguito nelle altre 
tappe saggistiche, che guida |’accostamento aggiornato e indipendente alle problematiche 
suggestive e attuali evocate dalla fisionomia archetipica del capolavoro letterario per 
antonomasia. Lo studioso stigmatizza l’angusta dimensione accademica della tradizione 
critica, spesso conservatrice ed inerte, e si adopera per liberare nuove potenzialita 
semantiche inesplorate dell’universo poetico dantesco, che risaltano pit nitidamente 
attraverso un confronto serrato e acceso con le sue diramazioni poetiche piu disparate ed 
eccentriche. Scorrano effettua un’oculata e motivata mise en abime di un referente 
ipotestuale cosi prestigioso e coinvolgente, che si presta ad ennesime riletture e 
reinterpretazioni, proprio grazie ai suoi numerosi, eclettici e frammentari rispecchiamenti 
ipertestuali ed alle riscritture sovente decontestualizzanti, strumentalizzanti e persino 
parassitarie, se non scopertamente parodistiche e dissacratorie, che pullulano nel fervente 
e poliedrico, forse anche ipertrofico e giunto al limite dell’entropia, panorama letterario 
contemporaneo costellato di adattamenti, rifacimenti e trasposizioni arbitrarie, 
anarchiche, in alcuni casi antagonistiche, dei classici. L’esegeta dantesco adotta sia per i 
saggi di critica filologica sulla Commedia che per le ricognizioni ermeneutiche sulla 
riutilizzazione del dettato dantesco in ambiti poetici moderni lo stesso identico taglio 
metodologico, omogeneo, spigliato e coerente con |’intento esposto nella premessa. Mira 
infatti ad individuare nell’oceanica varieta di significanti polisemantici che infittiscono 
l’ordito stilistico dell’opera alcuni elementi simbolico-figurali salienti, declinati nelle 
numerose varianti accreditate dalla tradizione lessicologica dantesca, che individuano un 
paradigma assiologico pregnante per decifrare la chiave di lettura dell’intero brano. 

Questo principio analitico viene applicato con eguale rigore teorico e scrupolo 
tassonomico all’episodio di Pier delle Vigne, gravitante intorno ad un archetipo di 
negazione della vita, che si alimenta a sua volta di termini chiave appartenenti alla 
famiglia semantica cruciale della selva (10-25), ed al canto III del Purgatorio, dominato 
dalla costante figurale della fuga verso la bonta riconquistata e ruotante sui segni basilari 
correlati monte e andare in suso (29-34). Lo stesso schema permea ovviamente anche la 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 465 


ricostruzione della struttura semantico-figurale del canto XXVI sempre del Purgatorio 
ma con |’introduzione di una variante: l’"avvicendamento in questo canto di transizione 
del simbolo iniziale dell’or/o, fattore di contiguita con il canto precedente, con quello 
dell’ ombra, pit appropriato al tenore del brano. 

Il saggio sulla presenza di calchi e suggestioni dantesche in Cellini riprende alcuni 
centri semantici fondamentali di natura agiografica e di ordine strutturale ascendente che 
caratterizzano il disegno piramidale della Commedia e |i rapporta alla concezione eroica 
rinascimentale, esemplare ed ultrabiografica, che permea la Vita letteraria del celebre 
scultore (69 segg., soprattutto 84). 

I] contributo sulla fortuna dantesca all’epoca del fascismo indaga, come abbiamo 
analizzato, sul rapporto ambiguo e parassitario intrattenuto dall’ideologia nazionalista del 
regime e la cristallina e universalistica concezione storico-politica dantesca, 
sviscerandone le ragioni recondite individuabili nella bieca e cinica strumentalizzazione 
propagandistica del classico letterario (106 segg.). Per definire il dantismo di Sereni, 
Scorrano ricorre all’aggettivo trasversale che indica una vasta gamma di inflessioni 
letterarie indirette e mediate, atte a sfumare in termini indeterminati ed impalpabili il 
calco testuale dell’espressione verbale dantesca, onde creare una sorta di diaframma 
poetico definibile con l’ausilio del neologismo concettuale coniato dall’autore: la 
onnipresente e distintiva purgatorialita che delinea e sancisce |’intera parabola evolutiva 
della lirica sereniana (166-67). Le annotazioni critiche riservate alla corrispondenza 
intertestuale esplicita tra il personaggio dantesco di Bonconte e il protagonista de La 
disubbidienza di Moravia meritano di essere segnalate perché puntualizzano uno dei 
possibili approcci novecenteschi al mito di Dante: il riuso metaculturale del classico in 
Ottica antiletteraria e trasgressiva (169-70). Relativamente al bifronte e ancipite percorso 
di riappropriazione dantesca operante nel romanzo lirico e allegorico Le stelle fredde di 
Piovene, Scorrano effettua una ricognizione particolarmente approfondita sul piano 
narratologico in vista dello sdoppiamento assiologico tra |’ orizzonte cristiano-occidentale 
della gerarchia oltremondana nella Commedia ed il suo azzeramento parodistico nella 
concezione scalare ed amorale dell’aldila metafisico ma non teologico professata da 
Piovene tramite il suo portavoce letterario Dostoievski (181-82). 

La rassegna viene emblematicamente chiusa da un sorprendente e spiazzante 
avamposto microdrammmatico contenuto all’interno di un romanzo sperimentale di 
Bevilacqua, all’insegna dell’archetipo del viaggio, comune denominatore tematico e 
figurale tra due opere poeticamente agli antipodi, quali appunto la “transumanante” e 
trasfigurante Commedia “divina” ed il prosaico e documentaristico romanzo a tesi 
L’occhio del gatto (197-98). Scorrano coglie |’occasione di questo incorporamento 
subliminale di sequenze dantesche nel montaggio scenico di un servizio bellico da parte 
del protagonista per sottolineare la presenza costante nel continuum poetico 
novecentesco del tema mitico del pellegrinaggio alla ricerca della conoscenza e della 
palingenesi umana che costituisce il nucleo generatore primario dell’intera architettura 
semantica della Commedia. Lo studioso ribadisce in ultima istanza le inesauribili 
potenzialita intertestuali di un motivo letterario e culturale che si discosta gradualmente 
dal suo remoto anche se intramontabile architesto medievale di riferimento e viene 
ripetutamente recuperato e riscritto in ennesime riedizioni modernizzanti, all’insegna di 
un’incessante e vertiginosa operazione di palinsesto (in senso naturalmente genettiano) 
destinata a protrarsi fino ai giorni nostri. 

Nicola Bietolini, Roma 


466 = Annali @’italianistica 20 (2002) 


R. W. B. Lewis. Dante. New York: Penguin Putnam, 2001. Pp. 197. 

In 1966, Thomas Caldecott Chubb observed in his full-length biography of Dante (Dante 
and His World) that more had been written about the poet than could ever be read — 
even if reading were one’s full-time occupation. Today, our choices in reading about 
Dante continue to expand: on one end, the comprehensive work edited by Lansing and 
Barolini (The Dante Encyclopedia), on the other, the latest book by R.W.B. Lewis. If 
Lansing and Barolini have produced a work of size and grandeur, Lewis has produced a 
work analogous to that of the great miniaturists Liberale or Zoppo — a wisp of a book, 
but nevertheless a beautiful portrait drawn with color and texture. What makes this book 
particularly interesting is Lewis’s own encyclopedic knowledge of English and American 
literature, and his ability to identify Dante’s influence on many of the most notable 
authors in literature. 

Lewis’s book is marked by clear, crisp writing and an economy of style that fits 
perfectly into the framework of the Penguin Lives series. Lewis never loses track of his 
audience, the general reader, and integrates examples from previous scholarship to 
illustrate his points without overwhelming non-Dantean scholars. Carefully selecting 
events, popes, and poetry, Lewis contextualizes the poet’s life, allowing the reader to 
grasp the forces that shaped Dante and inspired him to action. Lewis has delivered a rare 
treat, an artfully crafted and thoroughly readable book. 

Dante begins with a description of a fundamental aspect of 13" century Florentine 
life, a fight (ambush and murder, actually) between two families. This incident, described 
in the Comedy by Cacciaguida, precipitates a period of civil unrest that cascades through 
Florentine life for decades. The incident is memorialized by a plaque on the Ponte 
Vecchio, the reference to which is included in Lewis’s informative and eclectic 
bibliographical notes. And so, 50 years before Dante’s birth, the events on the Ponte 
Vecchio begin a factionalism that eventually lead to Dante’s banishment from Florence. 
By chapter’s end, Lewis has sketched the outline for the arc of Dante’s life. Tracing the 
development of Florence, beginning with the battles between Guelphs and Ghibellines, 
Lewis introduces the milestones that will figure prominently in Dante’s biography. As the 
chapter closes, Lewis has guided the reader to a time after Dante’s death, to the moment 
when Giovanni Boccaccio has finally been given permission to lecture in Florence about 
the poet he greatly admired. Boccaccio opens his lecture with the story of Dante’s 
ancestry, a story that begins with Cacciaguida describing the events that led to the 
ambush on a bridge in Florence. 

In the subsequent six chapters, Lewis describes Dante’s life choosing roughly 10- 
year periods to move the biography along. In chapter two, he presents the genealogy of 
the Alighieri family, the growth of Florence, and the happy coincidence of Dante’s first 
glimpse of Beatrice Portinari, whose family were his neighbors. With sufficient detail, 
Lewis takes us to and through the moment when Dante becomes enveloped in his longing 
for Beatrice, a moment that marks a notable shift in his life. Lewis, relying on Dante’s 
Vita nuova, describes the language with which Dante begins to elevate Beatrice to the 
status of the immortals, telling us that “She seemed no child of mortal man but of God” 
(25). Lewis suggests that Dante’s thinking about Beatrice was shaped by the visual 
images he absorbed as he walked through the churches of Florence. 

Tuscany was a bloody place during the 1280s and 1290s. Lewis describes these 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 467 


years as a transformational period in Dante’s life. As a starting point, Lewis takes Dante’s 
first greeting from Beatrice, nine years after the moment he first saw her. This encounter 
with Beatrice brought about the first of Dante’s dream-like experiences and caused him 
to begin writing the sonnets that would become his Vita nuova. The 1280s were also a 
time when Dante began expanding his cultural horizons. This broadening, Lewis 
explains, was largely the result of the influence of Bruno Latini, Dante’s role-model as a 
man of letters and public affairs. The presence of Latini contextualizes an important 
aspect of Dante’s life as Lewis contends that the structure of Latini’s writing prefigured 
the Comedy. Here, Lewis cites the work of Bargellini (Vita di Dante) as most persuasive 
on this point. Of course, for Dante’s biographers, the unanswered question is: If Latini 
was so important to Dante, why was he placed in Hell? Perhaps, Lewis suggests, we 
should consider applying Harold Bloom’s theory concerning “the anxiety of influence” 
(that is, a literary figure discounting the importance and/or influence of his predecessor) 
in order to better understand Dante’s literary treatment of Latini. For Lewis, the analog to 
Dante and Latini is that of Henry James discounting the influence of his literary forebear, 
Nathaniel Hawthorne. 

In late 1287, Beatrice Portinari is married and the conditions are set for the next 
major change in Dante’s life. Using examples from “three confessional sonnets” (49) that 
Dante later uses in the Vita nuova, Lewis takes the reader across the late 1280s. Within 
this period we learn of Dante’s use of the dolce stil nuovo (sweet new style) and how 
Dante credited a predecessor in its development. As Lewis makes clear, however, Dante 
also emerges as a man who moves seamlessly from poet to warrior and back again as 
necessary. Here, Lewis proposes the parallel with the American writer Walt Whitman, 
who was equally adept in his own time. 

In the spring of 1290 Beatrice dies. Now, Dante’s longing for Beatrice in this world 
shifts to elevating her in the next. Dante places her in a type of poetic purgatory for he 
resolves to “to write no more of this blessed one until I could more worthily treat of 
her’”(61). Dante’s statement is, as Lewis points out, the foretelling of his great poetic 
work. Lewis next explores the period from the middle of the 1290s to the early 1300s. 
Discussing the time immediately after Beatrice’s death, it is clear that Dante struggled 
between his grief for Beatrice and his passing attraction for another woman. By 1295, 
however, Dante sought solace in the reading of philosophy and theology. The general 
reader might not make the connection between Dante’s work and the writing of Thomas 
Aquinas. However, Lewis supplies the details, which are critical in that Aquinas provided 
the fundamental doctrinal structure of the Comedy. Lewis also judges this time to be 
when Dante becomes something richer — “‘a poet who commanded the language and 
ideas of the major classical schools of philosophy [...] of the thirteenth century”(65). 

Thus armed, Dante began the overtly political phase of his life. As recounted by 
Lewis, Dante moved rapidly through the political ranks in Florence, culminating with his 
election as one of the city’s chief magistrates. Here Lewis describes a confluence of 
events that militated against Dante’s intention of governing in a Florence-first fashion, 
devoid of local factionalism. In the instant, the consequences of an earlier Florentine law 
now provided two prominent families (the Donati and the Cherchi) with the opportunity 
to engage in the second most gratifying of all Florentine pleasures, retribution (making 
money being the first). Lewis does a fine job of relating a complex story and separating 
the characters for the reader. It was an important moment in Dante’s life because he was 
compelled to choose sides. He opted for neither Donati Blacks nor Cherchi Whites, but 


468  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


for the welfare of the city. Contemporaneously, Pope Boniface VIII, attempted to gain 
influence over an area just south of Florence. With some pre-Machiavellian sleight of 
hand, the pope managed to start a small war to achieve his ends. Dante, according to the 
limited accounts available, believed the pope’s intrusion had to be blocked. And so the 
Florentines who were thought by the pope to be, as Lewis describes, “good Guelph 
citizens” (79) now began to incur the displeasure of Boniface. The pope’s animosity took 
form in the army of Charles of Valois, whose forces threatened Florence. In a council 
meeting, Dante voted against any compromise with Charles and his forces. Alternatively, 
the Florentine government chose to send Dante and two others to meet with Boniface to 
assert the loyalty of Florence to papal authority. The mission failed. Charles’s army 
seized Florence, the Blacks returned to power, and Dante’s White Guelphs were expelled. 
Dante’s fate was sealed; his enemies exiled him and subsequently condemned him to 
death. 

The final chapters of Dante follow the poet into exile from Florence. At first, he 
drifted from Verona to Padua to Bologna. After abortive attempts to join others in trying 
to dislodge the Blacks from Florence, Dante made his final break with the exiled White 
Guelphs. Although Dante may have continued this activity, Lewis moves along to focus 
briefly on Dante’s next writings, De Vulgari Eloquentia and Convivio. Here Lewis 
discusses the genesis of these works and Dante’s intention that the Convivio repair his 
sullied post-exile reputation. Lewis notes that in the last book of the Convivio there seems 
to be “another large swing of Dante’s mental and imaginative energy, from love and 
philosophy to the world of human affairs” (99). This transition is continued in the last 
canzone he wrote before beginning the Comedy, the canzone known by its initial phrase 
“Amor, da che convien pur ch’io mi doglia” (“Love, since after all I am forced to grieve 
for others” 99). Whether the canzone refers to a real woman or to Beatrice is uncertain; 
there is no definitive source. Lewis’s interpretation is that there was a real woman who 
strongly attracted Dante, but that she was replaced in the poet’s imagination by Beatrice. 
Lewis suggests this canzone is history’s first glance of Beatrice, whom readers encounter 
on the summit of Mount Purgatory in the Comedy. 

Now, Lewis turns to a discussion of the Comedy. He starts with one of the most 
famous opening lines in literature, “Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita [...]” (“In the 
middle of the journey of our life [...]”), describing it in evocative terms: “such is the 
ever-echoing opening of the /nferno” (102). Lewis then identifies the first characters and 
features of the Comedy. These are particularly important pages for non-scholars seeking 
to understand the multi-layered symbolism of Dante’s work. With respect to his (and 
others’) analysis of the Comedy, Lewis indicates that the process began with Dante 
himself who wrote in 1319 that the Comedy was not limited to a single meaning. 
Regarding analysis in the modern era, Lewis describes a four-level approach used in 
American literary criticism during much of the last century. Whether this approach has 
continued merit, Lewis leaves unsaid. He does say, however, that his emphasis will be 
“most simply, the poetry of Dante’s autobiography” (105). And so Lewis guides the 
reader through the journey taken by Dante and explicates passages from the Comedy to 
identify the ever-darkening levels of the /nferno and illustrate the moral scaffolding of 
Dante’s thinking. 

In the penultimate chapter, Lewis recounts the events in Dante’s life during the 
period 1310-1319. With the Inferno almost complete, Dante is reawakened to the political 
turmoil of the day. In 1313, he believed that the imperial conquest of Tuscany was 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 469 


imminent and completed De Monarchia, which he had begun about 1308. Dante believed 
that it was the duty of educated people to speak forcefully about the political issues of the 
time. Shifting attention slightly, Lewis completes this period of Dante’s life with a 
description of the time Dante spent in Verona (c.1312-1318). Taking advantage of 
wonderful working conditions, Dante revised the Inferno, wrote and edited the 
Purgatorio, and began the Paradiso. 

The last chapter of Lewis’s book starts with Dante still residing in Verona and with 
most of the Purgatorio completed. Threatened by war, Florence offered its exiled citizens 
pardons to return and help defend their city. Dante rejected the terms of the offer and the 
incensed Florentines imposed a second death sentence on him, extending this penalty to 
Dante’s sons. Despite Dante’s having written almost nothing directly about his family, 
Lewis provides brief details about Dante’s three sons and his daughter, Antonia. At about 
this time Dante relocated from Verona to Ravenna, accepting a well-timed invitation 
from Guido da Polenta, lord of Ravenna. The city afforded Dante innumerable delights: a 
host who was an ardent admirer of his work and the company of other Florentine exiles. 
In this atmosphere Dante completed the Paradiso. Lewis completes his task, also, with a 
sweeping synthesis of the Paradiso, beginning with Dante’s ascension through the lower 
planets and illuminating the historical and allegorical elements. By 1320, with the 
Paradiso complete, Lewis implies that Dante enjoyed his reputation and even perhaps his 
situation. Whether at the end of his life he was happy or not is unanswerable for his death 
was premature. 

In the last few pages of his book, Lewis enumerates a list of who’s who in American 
and English literature, all of whom incorporated Dantean images in their work. But 
despite a list that includes Shelley, Browning, Emerson, and Eliot, for Lewis, only 
Shakespeare approaches the universal presence of Dante. For those who first discover 
Dante through this book, there could be no better introduction; nor could there be a better 
argument as to the lasting influence of the poet. 

Gregory Francesco Blanch, New Mexico State University 


Ignazio Baldelli. Dante e Francesca. Saggi di Lettere Italiane 53. Firenze: Olschki, 
1999. 

Amid the numerous critical commentaries on the Paolo and Francesca episode published 
in recent years, Professor Baldelli’s monograph on /nferno V is admirable, among other 
things, for its frank and enthusiastic elucidation of the nuanced wordplay, technical 
virtuosity, and metrical sophistication of the much-loved canto. Not that Dante’s mastery 
of his art is at issue here; however, contemporary readers may be less inclined to indulge 
in the practice of reading the Commedia aloud for themselves. In this elegantly presented 
volume, the memorable tercets from /nferno V are placed under scrutiny in a way that 
captures, for the modern reader, the exhilarating aural-oral dynamics of Dante’s verse. 
Professor Baldelli repeatedly urges the reader to experience first-hand the poetic 
resonance of the canto, to scan aloud the famous tercets in /nferno V in order to 
appreciate more fully the effect of Dante’s impressive linguistic range, from the 
recording of accent stresses and the use of alliteration and enjambement, to dramatic 
intonation and the complex psychological interplay reported through the direct speech of 
selected infernal inhabitants. 


470 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


At the same time, the meeting with the souls of Paolo Malatesta and Francesca da 
Rimini is historically foregrounded in order to reveal the political and historical context 
of the episode: the precarious and shifting network of political alliances and hostilities 
whose barely disguised tensions led to constant acts of violence and subterfuge among 
the ruling families of the day. In particular, Professor Baldelli brings to the fore the 
intransigent and rapacious nature of the Malatesta clan, whose treacherous modus 
operandi resembles that of other powerful ruling families in the thirteenth-century, and 
whose strong dynastic links with the Guidi da Romena are made evident: “La nobilta 
dell’Appennino toscano e quella romagnola erano profondamente legate sul piano 
dinastico e sul piano degli interessi politici e domestici” (27). The author offers a 
convincing overview of the influence of contemporary and historical events regarding 
communal politics, dynastic ambitions and successions, factional tensions, and 
documented evidence of inter-familial feuds and bloodshed. The consequences of such 
familial conflict are roundly condemned by the Florentine poet as a source of political 
and social unrest and division. Baldelli makes special mention of the presence of 
Malatesta family members and their cohorts in Dante’s grim congress of traitors: “Dante, 
per altro, insiste spietatamente sui Malatesta (e su chi era con loro connesso) come 
naturalmente traditori, ospitati o ospitandi nella Caina (Gianciotto), nella Tolomea 
(Malatesta e Malatestino, padre e fratello maggiore di Gianciotto), nella Antenora 
(Tebaldello Zambrasi)” (29). Elsewhere in the volume he reminds us of Dante’s 
unashamed documenting of the Malatesta clan’s ferocity and frequent resorting to brutal 
acts of violence in order to maintain their power base: “Dante insiste duramente sui 
Malatesta (e su chi era con loro connesso), come naturalmente traditori, ospitati o 
ospitandi nel cerchio infernale dei traditori” (56). 

In making judicious critical links, Professor Baldelli employs a wide variety of 
literary sources, classical and other (and here Dido acts as an important reference point), 
in order to provide a sensitive articulation of the thematics of Inferno’s Second Circle. 
Along the way, the author focuses attention on Boccaccio’s lively recreation of events 
concerning the adulterous pair. Nevertheless, he reminds us that historical evidence on 
the lovers is scarce, with no proven historical record in existence of the homicide of 
Paolo and Francesca. He also makes due reference to Dante’s Convivio and Epistole. 
Here, Baldelli’s wide knowledge of the rich lode of critical glosses, from contemporary 
to fourteenth-century commentaries that have shaped readers’ views and ignited 
academic controversies over many centuries since Dante first highlighted the fate of the 
“due cognati,” offers an invaluable source of in-depth critical commentary. 

In the preliminary section of the volume, Baldelli details the dramatic contrast 
between the attenuated and rarified atmosphere of /nferno IV and the inhabitants of 
Limbo. He notes the turbulent, violent, and brutish elements that characterise the opening 
tercets of Inferno V, concluding that “lo stacco del cerchio dei lussuriosi dal Limbo é 
dunque fortissimo” (5). His overview thus identifies a “dramatic continuity” linking 
Inferno III with Inferno V (with Limbo seen as an interlude), insofar as the aural intensity 
and drama accorded to these two cantos have a poetic commonality. According to 
Baldelli, the disparity between Limbo and the Circle of the Lustful is mediated most 
forcefully by Dante’s use of accented first syllables, consonance, distinctive rhyme 
clusters, and a veritable mé/ée of verbs relaying the charged atmosphere of the abode of 
the lustful sinners. Indeed, the author asserts that the dramatic appearance of Minos sets 
the tone for the tormented souls being buffeted by the merciless, howling wind of the 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 471 


Second Circle. 

In tracing the Virgilian sources of Minos’s characterization, for example, Baldelli 
underlines the fusion of demonic with bestial and human that underscores Dante’s 
depiction of the snarling, infernal judge, “umano mescolato di bestiale” (6). The detailed 
analysis of the linguistic devices, such as the placement of accents on the first syllable in 
the four tercets that constitute the presentation of Minos, strengthens the forceful 
intonation of the episode and underscores the ferocity of the overall effect: “La 
presentazione di Minosse, che costituisce come il prologo del canto, é dunque di poesia 
altamente intonata e insieme di grande violenza” (7). The author’s detailed gloss 
highlights the ever-present, whirling, tempest wind in /nferno V, “la bufera infernal,” and 
how the poet’s elemental backdrop proves influential in the linking of echoes, rhythms, 
repetition, and alliteration: “La bufera si fa possente sottofondo costante di tutto il canto, 
in una fitta eco di parole, di ripetizioni, di allitterazioni, di rime anche interne” (9), 
together with the interplay of setting with characters: “[...] la violenza della bufera 
coinvolge la violenza della presentazione dei dannati” (9). The critic’s marshalling of 
lexical items, cluster groups of nouns, adjectives, and such like, reveals a closely 
observed morphological schema, incorporating the use of latinisms, references to 
Benvenuto da Imola’s commentary, variants and phonetic links, syntactical devices, 
anaphora, rhythmical echoes, and repetition. The bird similes, too, are sensitively 
analysed for their classical sources, musicality, lexical echoes, and figural significance. 
Moving seamlessly back and forth through the cantica, as indeed the entire poem and the 
breadth of Dante’s oeuvre, the author’s focus on the linguistic features of the episode and 
his expression of the textual cohesiveness of the infernal encounters are convincingly 
presented. 

Professor Baldelli gives due recognition to the unifying elements in Jnferno V, such 
as Francesca’s inclusivity of Paolo in her discourse with the Wayfarer, “segno 
dell’assoluta solidarieta di Francesca e di Paolo nell’amore, nel peccato, nella morte, 
nella dannazione” (48), with a particular gloss on the evocation of the earthly kiss and its 
sensual quality. His reading signals the unique nature of the image: “[...] questo é l’unico 
bacio sulla bocca in tutte le opere di Dante, in versi e in prosa, in volgare e in latino” 
(69), and then describes its dramatic effect within the episode: “Francesca sente ancora su 
di sé l’intensita di questo bacio, e sente la commozione di Paolo, tutto tremante, 136” 
(69). He also discusses the importance of “la pieta” as a recurrent motif: “La pieta ¢ 
dunque il motivo poetico e musicale di pil grande rilievo, che lega il canto in tutte le sue 
parti” (61). Most importantly, Baldelli underscores the centrality of love as a theme in the 
Commedia: “Nell’opera dantesca, e in particolare nella Commedia, ¢€ patente l’assoluta 
centralita dell’amore, dell’amore umano, in tutta la sua scala, e dell’amore divino come 
fonte della creazione del cosmo, di cui |’uomo, l’amore infinito per l’uomo, sono il centro 
e la ragione” (73-74). He rightly observes: “[...] nella Commedia si realizza la centralita 
dell’amore come realta soperchievole nella poesia di Dante, sia come poeta (peccatore) 
carnale, sia come poeta (filosofo) dell’amore, sia come poeta del poema sacro, 
nell’identificazione appunto dei valori poetici incentrati sulla tematica dell’amore e 
dell’amore-passione” (74). In this context he examines briefly the lascivious Carlo 
Martello, Cunizza da Romano, Folchetto da Marsiglia, Raab and the lustful sinners in the 
Purgatorio. In Baldelli’s view, Inferno V constitutes “il testo poeticamente pit alto in cui 
Dante identifichi il suo sentimento verso la passione amorosa con |’amore di Francesca e 
di Paolo” (87). 


472  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Professor Baldelli’s monograph offers readers an informative and detailed study of a 
well-known and popular episode. His breadth of scholarship is admirable and readers will 
find the numerous themes examined in the volume of absorbing interest. 

Diana Glenn, Flinders University of South Australia 


Guy P. Raffa. Divine Dialectic. Dante’s Incarnational Poetry. Toronto: U of Toronto 
P, 2000. Pp. 254. 

In his introduction to the text, Guy P. Raffa observes that the Incarnation — the descent 
of the divine Logos into humanity — has a logic of his own, a logic that violates the 
Aristotelian principle of non-contradiction whereby the same subject cannot be both one 
thing and its opposite at the same time. The Incarnation is paradoxical in nature: a union 
of two natures in a single person, the same subject — Christ — is at once completely 
human and completely divine. Raffa calls this structure a “paradoxical ‘both-and’ 
doctrine” (5) and argues that in Dante’s Comedy, it is not only limited to representations 
of the man-god, but it is also “the mainspring of what has come to be known as a 
‘dialectical’ Dante” (6). Speaking of Dante’s work as “dialectical” implies the 
recognition that the poet does not have a definitive “either-or” solution, but a “both-and” 
approach to theological and non-theological issues. 

The first chapter of the book, “Divisive Dialectic: Incarnational Failure and Parody,” 
is divided into two sections, each identifying an important early stage in the development 
of Dante’s incarnational dialectic. 

In the first section, “Incarnation Manqué in the Vita nuova,” the author argues that 
Dante dramatizes a failed incarnational union of human and divine love. Dante’s literary- 
spiritual autobiography must defer resolution to a prophesied future because its de- 
centered protagonist has not grasped the true meaning of Beatrice’s Christ-like mediation 
between heaven and earth. Insofar as Dante figures the relationship between the two 
realms as a dichotomy, the dialectic of the Vita nuova remains one of contradiction 
underpinning the Incarnation. 

The poet revisits this Incarnation manqué in the prologue scene of the Jnferno, as 
Raffa shows in the second section, “Dante’s Infernal Web of Pride.” The intercession of 
Mary, Lucy, and Beatrice puts in place an incarnational relationship: Dante and Virgil 
become one in their two wills, so that the fallen wayfarer can undertake his salvific 
journey to the other world. This infernal web is a parody of the dialectical paradox of the 
Incarnation. Several couples (Paolo and Francesca, Ulysses and Diomedes, Count 
Ugolino and Archbishop Ruggieri) are joined to a series of divided or half-visible 
individuals that includes Farinata, Pope Nicholas III, the Giants, Lucifer. These sinners, 
either doubled (“due in uno”) or divided (“uno in due”), parody the incarnational union of 
two natures in one person that motivates the poet’s paradotical dialectic. 

The second chapter, “Incarnational Dialectic Writ Large,” is divided into four 
sections, and examines Dante’s transformation of the failed and parodic unions of the 
Vita nuova and the Inferno into the achieved incarnational dialectic represented in the 
final cantos of the Purgatorio and the opening cantos of the Paradiso. 

In the first section, “Incarnational (Dis)appearances,” Raffa presents the paradox of 
the Incarnation through the figure of the Christ-like Griffin, whose natures — leonine and 
aquiline — are reflected in Beatrice’s eyes. This incarnational moment is linked to the 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 473 


return of Beatrice to Dante’s literary universe, and the wayfarer’s recognition and 
repentance of the failures of his “vita nova.” However, Dante’s reunion with Beatrice 
comes at the expense of the dissolution of his union with Virgil. 

The second section, “Dialectically Marked Spirits in the Shadowed Spheres,” shows 
how Dante extends his incarnational use of “ombra” in the Purgatorio — the word 
pointing to both the shadow cast by the wayfarer’s mortal body and the ontological status 
of the blessed shades in the afterlife — to the conical umbra, the astronomical 
intersection of the human and divine realms. 

The third section, “Incarnational Reflections and Lines,” focuses on the 
incarnational progress of the wayfarer himself as he leaves the earth and begins his 
celestial voyage. The poet depicts rectitude (“dritta via”) and swerving (“disviare”) in 
terms of direct and oblique rays of light. Dante marks the stages of the mortal wayfarer’s 
participation in divinity from oblique reflection in Purgatory, and an aborted attempt at 
direct vision at the beginning of the celestial voyage, to the final, direct infusion of divine 
light required for a vision of the Incarnation. 

The fourth and final section of chapter two, “The Poet’s Incarnate Word,” shows 
how the “word made flesh” is Dante’s model for his own incarnate word in the cantos 
treating the celestial spheres of the trivium. 

The third chapter, “Dante’s Incarnational Dialectic of Martyrdom and Mission,” 
refers to the poet’s projection of his incarnational dialectic into history, based on 
hardships endured and lessons learned during life in exile. 

The first section, “Lifting the Hermeneutic Veil: Circling the Cross in the Sun and 
Mars,” shows how Dante anticipates the final incarnational vision of the human form in a 
Trinitarian circle by figuratively centering the cross of martian warriors in the circles of 
solar luminaries. By taking up his own cross in the central episode of the Paradiso, Dante 
forges an image of himself as both victim and victor. Thus Raffa analyzes the causes and 
effects of the poet’s personal appropriation of incarnational dialectic. 

In the second section, “The Bitter-Sweet Lessons of Cacciaguida and Scipio,” the 
author argues that Dante views his exile in terms of martyrdom and mission by 
identifying with Cacciaguida and Scipio Africanus the Younger. 

The third section, “Dante’s Divine Tetragon,” explains how Dante compresses these 
representations of his dialectic of martyrdom and mission into a single incarnational 
image, that of the tetragon. Scholars have long interpreted Dante’s tetragon with the 
Aristotelian-Thomist metaphor of the virtuous individual who faces fortune — favorable 
and adverse — with an even temperament. Raffa, on the other hand, offers another 
interpretation. Defining the Son of God, Thierry of Chartres concludes that Christ is the 
“first tetragon.” Thus the tetragon, more than an image of the exile as he withstands the 
blows of fortune, confirms that for Dante, as for the crucified figure flashing forth in 
Mars, victory is the price of his defeat. 

The fourth and final section of chapter three, “Intellectual Action and Dialectical 
Hermeneutics,” shows that Dante transforms the traditional dichotomy of contemplation 
and action into a dialectical union. Dante models this intellectual action on the 
incarnational union of two complete natures in a single person and offers a dialectical 
alternative to the oppositional hermeneutics of Scriptural exegesis, routinely applied to 
the Comedy. 

Guy P. Raffa succeeds in showing Dante’s unconventional approach to traditional 
dichotomies as eros and spirituality, fame and humility, action and contemplation, 


474  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


obedience and transgression. Dante’s logic works as a “both-and” attitude, not an “either- 

or” one. Dante, in substance, promotes a paradoxical union of contradiction, just as the 

Incarnation itself does, which reunites in one person the human and the divine natures. 
Diego Fasolini, University of Wisconsin-Madison 


Letture Classensi 29. Costruzione narrativa e coscienza profetistica nella “Divina 
Commedia”, a cura di N. Mineo, Longo Editore, Ravenna 2000, Pp. 237. 

This edition of the Letture Classensi covers many aspects of Dante’s prophetic stance 
seen as both an intimate part of Dante’s specific journey and sub specie aeternitatis. 
Cristalli explains the role of Gioacchino da Fiore and Pietro di Giovanni Olivi in Dante’s 
views of eschatology and pauperism. The article then well interprets Dante’s varying and 
rather vague stance regarding the ability and right of the Church to “recipere”, even 
though a more in-depth discussion of the divergence between Cristaldi’s thoughts and 
Nardi’s thoughts on Dante’s supposed Averroism in this context might have proved 
fruitful. The analysis of Monarchia II] 10 on the Donatio Constantini underlines the 
absolute importance of Dante’s views regarding Romanitas. Cristaldi alludes to the fact 
that Dante’s supposed dependence upon the thought of heretics such as Gioacchino and 
Olivi is difficult to define. I wonder whether we should not be talking about syncretism, 
exactly as we do regarding Dante’s understanding of official church doctrine. After all, 
would not a syncretic view of Dante’s reception of heretical thought also help us explain 
the difference between a six-age scheme and Dante’s own “quattro etadi” (Cv. IV 23,12)? 

A syncretic view is exactly what Lucia Battaglia Ricci points out regarding Dante’s 
monstra, which are “pid o meno liberi, personali adattamenti di individui estratti dalla 
letteratura e dalla mitologia classica al modello sancito dai testi sacri della cristianita e in 
vario modo contaminati con ipotesti romanzi” (68). I feel, however, that the missing 
quote and, indeed, the papal justification for and tradition behind much of her argument is 
the view expressed by St Gregory the Great on the use of the visual arts as support 
systems in the catechisation of the illiterate: “Pictura in Ecclesiis adhibetur ut hi qui 
litteras nesciunt saltem in parietibus videndo legant quae in codicibus legere non valent” 
(Epist. 2,195 = ML 1027C-1028A). It is this exquisitely Roman and Western tradition 
that is implicit in any discourse regarding ekphrasis, whether in the figurative arts or in 
literature. Indeed, on the same topic, Spera writes, “una parola diretta affidata a una 
scultura ha sottintesi metapoetici di alto significato intorno alla funzione dell’arte e alla 
sua Capacita di ‘animazione’” (155). 

Battaglia Ricci’s argument for the influence of the tableaux of late thirteenth- and 
fourteenth-century pulpits on the moral and spiritual lessons contained in the bas-reliefs 
of Purg. X is well supported by the parallel with the strongly suggestive mystical 
experiences of Saint Francis and Saint Catherine. Analogously, her understanding of 
Dante’s constant allusion to the /nferno as a “bocca” is well paralleled in the illustrations 
from Chartres and Troyes, etc. It is true that Dante lived in an age in which people still 
believed they could have extraordinary visions, but it is also true that we must not forget 
the syncretic, contaminating effect of Dante’s poetics, which combines classical and 
Christian elements. One such classical element is the “templum ingens” which Dido 
erects for Juno in Aen. I 456-495. Here Aeneas marvels at the “imagines” on its walls 
exemplifying the plight of Troy. In the light of Aeneas’s pietas, his destiny as the future 
founder of the gens Julia in Italy, and the providential pax Romana under Augustus, are 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 475 


these lessons any less edifying historically, morally, and perhaps even “spiritually” for 
Dante than the visual and plastic arts of his period? By the same token, do the mouths 
sculpted in the portals of Chartres or painted in the Baptistery of Florence exert a greater 
influence on Dante than the “ostia centum” of the “antrum” of the Sybil in Aen. VI 42- 
44? 

Barberi Squarotti interprets Dante’s prophetic stance as analogous to the biblical 
conception of prophecy, that is, as an “esplicazione del senso degli accadimenti” (107). 
Such an a posteriori prophetic mode is coloured with the hues of moral and 
eschatological value judgements which, in turn, force Dante to become an authority on 
both local and universal matters concerning the entire “popolo di Dio.” It is because of 
such a grave destiny as revealer of the state of souls after death that Dante is persecuted, 
even in exile. 

Regarding the “Veltro”, the authors well reflect the two poles of the current status 
questionis. For Barberi Squarotti (127-8), the Veltro is the Christ who will return, 
whereas for Mineo (215), both Jf XXVI 7-12 and the “Cinquecento diece e cinque / 
messo di Dio” of Pg. XXXIII 43-44 refer to Henry VII. Mineo, however (223), then 
disqualifies the emperor as a candidate for the Veltro for chronological reasons and 
advocates, instead, some non-religious leader figure with imperial connections. He then 
tries to solve the contradiction by suggesting (220, 230) that /nferno, together with the 
Convivio and the De vulgari eloquentia, belongs to a period in which Dante still 
somehow felt that the Empire and the Church were working towards the same goals and 
that the Veltro, consequently, would not work against the Church. For follow-up reading 
on this vexata quaestio, | suggest waiting for the 2002 spring issue of Giornale italiano di 
filologia 54.1. 

Nicold Mineo defines Dante’s ongoing commento as most present in Paradiso 
because it is here that Dante’s diegetic stance changes most dramatically. It is in 
Paradiso that Dante meets and speaks with the fewest souls, and these have lost most of 
their humanness, becoming instead pure light in movement. Communication thus 
becomes non-verbal and, therefore, direct speech gives way to commentary. 
Analogously, Spera writes, “Pit é alto il soggetto, pit la sua vicenda é tragica e pit il 
dialogo cede al monologo” (149). In Purgatorio, direct speech becomes more directly 
governed by pathos inasmuch as this, compared to the immutability of both /nferno and 
Paradiso, is the realm of transience. Spera’s account, however, of speech regarding the 
“ignavi” of Jf III leaves some doubt. It is true that “Nessuna di queste anime € ritenuta 
degna di una parola diretta e neppure di una presentazione” (144), but I do not feel that it 
is because the “dannato non pud stabilire un dialogo autentico perché obnubilato dal 
peccato e dalla condanna” (145). Why would it be, then, that certain souls even further 
down in Inferno, who have presumably committed even worse sins, manage to converse 
with Dante? Moreover, I do not feel that the “ignavi” are theologically incapable of 
repenting of their sins simply because their “duol” (v. 33) and “invidi[a] d’ogni altra 
sorte” (v. 48) must correspond to some understanding of their own state. It is also unclear 
how, through “authentic dialogue” with Dante, they might somehow be able to 
“understand themselves” any better. The main message imparted by Dante is his 
contempt for these souls “che mai non fur vivi” (v. 64) and, conversely, his implicit 
praise, or at least respect, for all those human beings who, even negatively, left some 
mark in history. At times, Spera makes assertions which might have deserved greater 
discussion, such as the symmetry in the “negazione persino del nome” (145) of certain 


476 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


damned souls in /f III and /f XXXIII; the “fiamma cornuta” of Jf XXVI as dangerous 
for Ulysses’s listeners (150); Dante seen as an “angel” sent back to the earth-plane to 
announce his own gospel (160); and Ciacco’s “impulso a parlare” (146) (and, 
presumably, a non parlare). If, as Spera suggests, such an impulse does not depend on 
Ciacco himself, on whom or on what does it depend? More importantly, in the light of 
Ciacco’s prophecy and understanding of both the geography of Inferno and Dante’s 
future plight (not to mention Dante’s global narrative strategy), Spera does not explain 
how and why this external force operates through a parasitic glutton. 

Antonio Pioletti’s article, together with Mineo’s, is indebted to Boccaccio studies. 
The narrative frame of the Commedia is described, on one level, as both the “visione di 
un viaggio” and the “viaggio di una visione” (167), and, on another level, as the result of 
the “intrinseco legame fra scrittura del viaggio e viaggio della scrittura” (169). 

Mineo’s second article well closes the collection in “un sogno di armonia terrena,” 
and draws some interesting conclusions which corroborate Cristaldi’s arguments on 
Dante’s gioachimism. Mineo stresses here the significance of the fact that Italy’s first 
major literary work is both religious in nature and a prophecy. Moreover, the Commedia 
must be read in the light of the socio-economic and political disasters of the years 1313- 
1317, on the one hand (which brought about a huge increase in beggary), and the relative 
prosperity of Florence, on the other. Mineo’s evaluation of Dante’s dream for earthly 
harmony encompasses the creation of mankind (created to replace the fallen angels), the 
Augustinian concept of the Roman Empire as remedium peccati, the dictatus papae of 
Gregory VII, and the court of Frederick II. Mineo also explains Dante’s explicit mention 
of Pier Damiani and Gratian, who indirectly represent the popes they lived under, 
respectively Gregory VII, Hadrian IV, and Alexander III, who, instead, are not mentioned 
because they willingly took on and confused the attributes of the “due soli” (199). Mineo 
then describes (213) Florence as it was in the time of Cacciaguida, during which one 
could see the pure traits of fiorentinita (“cittadinanza”) right down to “l’ultimo artista” 
(Pd. XVI 51). In the light of Dante’s thoughts on the Franciscan usus pauper, it is easy to 
understand not only the gravity of the crime committed by Gianni Schicchi, but also the 
exemplaritas of Dante agens, who wants to personify the Florence of times gone by. 
Florence is seen as a reflection of humanity — once glorious but now populated by 
“scelestissimi Florentini intrinseci” — which “crucifies” Dante, an imitator Christi, by 
sending him into exile to expiate the sins of the world and bring back the Good Word 
through his Commedia. 

Rodney J. Lokaj, Universita degli Studi di Perugia 


Zygmunt G. Baranski, “Chiosar con altro testo”: leggere Dante nel Trecento, 
Letteratura Italiana Antica 2, Cadmo, Fiesole 2001, Pp. 184. 

Throughout the first five chapters dedicated to the Commedia and its relationship with 
certain fourteenth-century commentaries, Baranski’s exegetical thrust is uniformly 
robust. It is true that traditional Dante nineteenth- and twentieth-century exegesis tended 
to look upon the antico commento as a more “objective” hermeneutical source, that is, as 
“neutri repertori di dati,” inasmuch as it was historically and culturally closer to Dante 
than the modern Dantisti. Baranski argues (15-16) that the situation has largely remained 
unaltered. He, therefore, invites modern criticism to concentrate more on the Trecento 
commentaries of the Commedia on their own merits (33-34). Baranski then succinctly 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 477 


describes the characteristics of a medieval comentum and offers his analyses of 
Benvenuto da Imola (Chap. 3) and Maramauro (Chap. 5) as two possible guidelines to 
follow in future research. 

Baranski stresses that one of the main difficulties which the commentatores had to 
face was how to deal with the linguistic, stylistic and formal novitas of the Commedia 
within the close confines of the rigid tradition governing the writing of commentaries. He 
suggests that this is where the outstanding nature and uniqueness of Benvenuto’s 
comentum most greatly emerges. On the very point of novitas, Baranski argues that 
Maramauro was not well versed in the study of Thomas Aquinas and, therefore, Baranski 
disqualifies him as both a dantista and an original-minded university professor (132-35). 
It is, nevertheless, intriguing to realise that Maramauro’s commentary, though perhaps 
naive, constituted just as much of a shift away from the commentary tradition as Dante’s 
Commedia had regarding medieval poetics. Should we exclude that Maramauro had 
perhaps somehow intuited that the novitas of the Commedia deserved analogous novitas 
in a commentary? 

Regarding “lo sperimentalismo della Commedia,” Baranski writes that “lo scopo 
principale del commentatore é proprio quello di far rientrare pacificamente il poema entro 
i confini della cultura sfidata da Dante” (22). Baranski himself feels that more work 
needs doing on the individual commentaries in order to establish just how “right-wing” 
the antiqui commentatores really were. In a recent article (R. Lokaj, “Origen between 
Dante and Petrarch,” Adamantius 7, 2001, 132-53), however, I strove to demonstrate, for 
example, that Pietro di Dante openly defended his father’s supposed implicit use of 
Origen as an auctoritas, whereas official culture (especially the Dominicans) still 
strongly held Origenism as heterodox. On the other hand, Boccaccio is less damning of 
Origen in the Genealogie than in the more public Esposizioni. The issue obviously 
remains open. 

Another case of attenuation of Dante’s thoughts in the antico commento regards, as 
Baranski points out, the embarrassment with which both medieval and modern 
interpreters of the Commedia have dealt with the “sesso ed escremento” of Jf XVIII. 
Baranski calls for a re-appraisal of the role carried out by the obscene and the 
scatological in the medieval world and suggests, for the “embarrassing” case in point, 
both intertextual parallels with Eccles. IX 10 and, more in general, somewhat less 
bourgeois eyes. What Baranski does not say here, perhaps because it is all too obvious, is 
that obscene, scatological matters, especially if unexpectedly coupled with high-ranking 
historical figures in grave circumstances, for a medieval mind, are funny. Malacoda’s 
“cul fatto trombetta” and “il cattivel d’Andreuccio” da Perugia, who climbs out of the 
“chiassetto [...] putendo forte” in the Decameron, are also comic elements. 

On the vexata quaestio as to whether or not the Epist. XIII to Cangrande ought to be 
attributed to Dante, Barariski agrees with Nardi and Brugnoli against such an attribution. 
He adduces as evidence the following evidence: the letter is associated with Dante’s 
name only at the end of the Trecento; before this time the letter arouses very little 
interest; its genus dicendi is diametrically opposed to that of the De vulgari eloquentia; it 
is less efficient as a guide to the Commedia than De vulgari eloquentia par. 10 of Epist. 
XIII is much more conservative than the Commedia. Before a serious comparison is 
made, as Barariski suggests (47n21), between the style of this letter and the modus 
scribendi of the canonical Latin works, the current critical tug-of-war is bound to persist. 
On this very issue, however, Bararski enters into a discussion of the adjective “sublimis” 


478  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


from the point of view of style, and notices that it is never used in the Commedia (74). He 
does not mention, however, that the same adjective is not used at all in the canonical 
Latin works either, except in the fixed epithet “aquila sublimis,” alias Henry VII, of 
Epist. V, 11, and in the verb form “sublimo” in De vulgari eloquentia I, 17, 2, 3, 5; IV,10, 
in the sense “to raise to the greatest heights.” “Sublimis” would thus seem to be a hapax 
peculiar only to Epist. XIII and not, therefore, a part of Dante’s general modus scribendi. 
Rather than a technical term of style, I feel, consequently, that “sublimis” should be used 
in its etymological sense of “sub limine.” As is the case of “tam ardua tam sublimia 
dicere” (§51), sublimis is everything this side of the divinely established limits of human 
effability. 

In quoting Francesco da Buti (77), who quotes in turn an epystola of Francesco 
Petrarch, Baranski includes Petrarch in a type of the bella schola of commentatores for 
whom Dante’s titulus of Comedia provided several problems. Petrarch’s quote, however, 
together with the epystola, does not seem to exist, at least in this form. I might suggest 
the Sine nomine VI which, though starting with an analogous sentence, “Piget incepisse, 
sed et desinere itidem pudet,” speaks of the abundance of “materia” for tragedies, which 
no one is writing, not comedies. Thanks to the anti-Dantean tones in Fam. XXI, 15, 
especially in §9 (“stilus [sci/. of Dante] in suo genere optimus’), it might be inferred, but 
only in the realm of pure hypothesis, that conversely there were too many comedies being 
written in Petrarch’s time. My suspicion is that Francesco da Buti misquoted Petrarch, an 
absolute auctoritas, on purpose. 

For Baranski, Benvenuto’s Comentum is by far the most original in the Trecento, 
especially because of its prologue and redefinition of stylus comicus (no longer “umile,” 
but “‘alto”). In the same milieu, especially from the 1370s on, Baranski identifies an ever- 
increasing intellectual interest in Dante. He does not mention the fact, however, that 
concomitantly the political and personal reasons for Dante’s exile (even in Florence) had 
largely disappeared. The intellectual interest, on the one hand (with the rise of 
humanism), and the changing political and cultural trends, on the other, all contributed to 
this greater interest in Dante. On the question of the dream of Dante’s mother, I feel that 
the interpretative discrepancies which Baranski identifies between Benvenuto and 
Boccaccio are also, at least in part, dictated by their own personal agenda. That is to say, 
Boccaccio was interested in establishing Dante’s right to a crown of laurel leaves, 
because, as we can glean from Petrarch’s Familiares, he yearned to be known as a poeta 
and wanted to be crowned as well. If Dante had no right to a crown, what hope would 
there have been for Boccaccio? Benvenuto, the /Jector, could not have had such lofty 
ambitions. 

It should not be surprising that Benvenuto (115n.64) used the text of the Vita 
Vergilii in its version minor, seeing that the so-called Donatus auctus was probably 
composed in the milieu of Sicco Polenton during the following century. What is 
surprising is that the term “dantista” seems to have been used for the first time not in 
central Italy, but in Naples, and specifically by Maramauro, whom Baranski delights in 
revealing as guilty of plagiarism, especially regarding Pietro di Dante. What is 
particularly interesting about Baraniski’s exposé of Maramauro’s unworthiness as an 
academic dantista is the Neapolitan’s enormous, but concealed, debt to Dionigi da Borgo 
San Sepolcro. So little is known about this Augustinian friar beyond his role as addressee 
for Petrarch’s Mt. Ventoux letter (Fam. IV, 1) and his own comment on Valerius 
Maximus. It fits in well with a conference recently held on Dionigi (Dionigi da Borgo 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 479 


Sansepolcro fra Petrarca e Boccaccio, Atti del Convegno, Sansepolcro, 11-12 feb. 2000, 
ac. di F. Suitner, Petruzzi Editore, Citta di Castello, 2001) that his Declaratio Valerii 
Maximi should also have been turned to Dante studies in Naples long after the death of 
King Robert. 

The last chapter, though only marginally linked to the preceding chapters on Dante 
and the commentary tradition, solidly deals with Petrarch’s Triumphi which, ahimé, have 
traditionally attracted very little systematic attention. When asserting that it is “ormai un 
luogo comune quello secondo il quale la poetica di Petrarca costituisce un’area marginale 
del suo pensiero, priva di carattere sistematico,” Baranski perhaps falls into another 
common place when stating that the Collatio laureationis, the Invective contra medicum, 
some of the Familiares and the Seniles are not “opere creative” (155). It is becoming 
more and more evident to Petrarch scholars that his reflections on poetics and his field of 
greatest poetic daring (in terms of auctorial intertextuality), albeit generally in prose, 
include the actual Latin works listed. Given the disparity of content through the repetition 
of form (mainly catalogues), I am also not sure whether we should call the Triumphi “un 
poema,” as Baranski does, or rather six “poesie trionfali.” I agree (and I know that Marco 
Santagata would too) that Petrarch’s intention was to enact in verse the triumph of 
Romanitas tempered by Christian ideology, even though the same could be said for many 
of his other works. Baranski’s insistence upon Roman military triumph as the matrix for 
this literary form somewhat overshadows the influence on Petrarch of Dante’s 
processione mistica of Pg. XXIX, which Baranski leaves only in a note. Triumph was 
also a medieval artistic form in both literature before Dante (such as the triumphal march 
of Piacere in Brunetto Latini’s Tesoretto), and in the figurative arts right through to the 
fifteenth century (such as the triumph of Franciscanism in Assisi and Padua, or the 
triumph of “buon e cattivo governo” in Siena). Even the via Crucis, though ex contrariis, 
could be seen as a “triumph,” as could so many medieval processions through the streets 
before and after the contest to win the local palio. Furthermore, there are catalogues in 
the fragmenta (whether of rivers, trees or Laura’s attributes) which come very close to 
the stylus of the Triumphi. These are all triumphal forms which might have played at least 
an equal part in Petrarch’s poetic strategies. If the Triumphi were meant to be Petrarch’s 
magnum opus and his “grande epica moderna” (172), why is it that posterity on the 
continent preferred the fragmenta? As far as the dantismi in Petrarch’s Triumphi are 
concerned, Baranski believes that it is not correct to insist on the presence of an “aura 
dantesca ‘comica’” as has been suggested in the critical literature. He suggests, instead, 
an “aura tragica.” However, if, as Baraniski argues in the first chapters, Dante’s stylus 
comicus can and does easily accommodate “tragic” elements, sufficiat. 

Rodney J. Lokaj, Universita degli Studi di Perugia 


Marco Berisso. La raccolta dei poeti perugini del Vat. Barberiniano Lat. 4036. Storia 
della tradizione e cultura poetica di una scuola trecentesca. Firenze: Olschki, 2000. 

This work takes as its subject a difficult and highly specialized area of medieval Italian 
literature: the group of so-called sodomiti perugini of the first half of the Trecento. This 
collection of authors, which includes such poets as Neri Moscoli, Cecco Nuccoli, Marino 
Ceccoli, and Gillio Lelli, is often pigeon-holed into the so-called genre of poesia giocosa. 
Yet, given these poets’ stylistic and thematic differences from other comic poets, such a 
categorization has frequently been viewed as uncomfortable at best. While anthologizers 


480 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Aldo Francesco Masséra (Sonetti burleschi e realistici dei primi due secoli, Bari: Laterza, 
1940), Mario Marti (J poeti giocosi del tempo di Dante, Milano: Rizzoli, 1956), and 
Maurizio Vitale (Rimatori comico-realistici del Due e Trecento, Torino: UTET, 1956) 
consider them part of the comic movement, recent scholars such as Steven Botterill and 
Gary Cestaro have questioned their classification as strictly jocose poets. Berisso’s work 
appears at a time when interest in those poets is building. In addition to those scholars 
mentioned above, in 1996 Franco Mancini and Luigi M. Reale published a new edition of 
their poetry (Poeti perugini del Trecento, tomo 1, Marino Ceccoli, Cecco Nuccoli e altri 
rimatori in tenzone, Perugia: Guerra, 1996). Thus, Berisso’s book constitutes a timely 
contribution to the critical discussion of these so-called sodomiti perugini. 

Berisso’s study is divided into three lengthy chapters, which are then divided into 
subchapters, some of which are themselves divided into subheadings. The first and 
longest of the three chapters is dedicated to the manuscript itself. All the works of all 
these poets appear in only one codex, Vaticano Barberiniano Latino 4036, and, hence, 
any sort of in-depth study must at the very least take into account the source manuscript. 
This chapter is painstakingly detailed, and therefore runs the risk of appealing only to 
those persons who possess a good background in paleography—indeed, of appealing only 
to readers who also possess intimate knowledge of Vaticano Barberiniano Latino 4036. 
Yet, from the large amount of information amassed, Berisso is able to arrive at some 
interesting conclusions about the scribe, the manuscript, and the poets themselves. He is 
able to show that the amanuensis was a Perugian, most likely a member of the notarial 
class but possessing an intimacy with the transcription of poetry. Berisso then turns his 
attention to the composition of the codex, illustrating how certain “micro-sequences” 
occur: there appear to be clusters of poems which all relate to each other and Berisso 
performs in-depth readings of several of them. The scholar hypothesizes that the 
manuscript was initially a collection of three octavos: one dedicated to anonymous 
works, one to the sonnets of Marino Ceccoli, and one to those by Neri Moscoli. As the 
octavos were bound together, other octavos containing the works of the other poets were 
introduced, thereby developing into the present-day manuscript. Finally, Berisso arrives 
at a theory of the construction of the manuscript as one not necessarily focused on a style 
of writing, such as comic poetry, but rather on a group of writers. In other words, 
Vaticano Barberiniano Latino 4036 appears to be the only documentation of a school of 
poets in existence in Perugia just prior to 1350. 

At the end of the first chapter, Berisso is able to draw some insightful conclusions 
about the poets. This small section that concludes the first chapter represents perhaps the 
high point of the entire work. In it, he is able to relate the codicological information to 
one of the vexatae questiones regarding these poets: their homoeroticism. He notes that 
many, if not all, of these poets belonged to the notarial class, that is, lower nobility. In the 
early 1340s, a political struggle ensued in which the upper nobility won out over the 
lower. Therefore, this school of poets appears to consist of a group of individuals who 
were on the losing side of the political situation in Perugia. In this light, Berisso explains 
their choice of homoerotic topoi. As a way to avenge their losses, they decided to expose 
the private issue of their sexual orientation (and Berisso claims that their homoeroticism 
was indeed a biographical fact, and not a literary joke as Marti and others argue). The 
statutes of 1342 that codified the hegemony of the upper nobility also prescribed harsh 
punishments for those convicted of sodomy. To publicly write about matters which were 
illegal and which could get them the death penalty meant highlighting the impotence and 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 481 


ineffectiveness of the ruling classes. In short, Berisso argues that the selection of literary 
thematics was occasioned by the politics of the day. 

In the second and third chapters, Berisso addresses the question of the classification 
of the Perugian school; namely, are they or are they not comic? In the second chapter, 
Berisso discusses the style of various Perugian poets by noting how they borrow from, 
and synthesize the traits of, major authors of the Due-Trecento. He labels them as 
epigones and notes that the majority of their poems are not comic. Instead, they imitate 
such masters as Dante, Cino da Pistoia, and Guido Cavalcanti. In the third chapter, 
Berisso analyzes those sonnets that do fall into the category of comic literature, yet he 
begins by problematizing the issue. He first discusses the fact that, historically speaking, 
there were two major geographical distinctions in the poesia giocosa of the thirteenth and 
fourtenth centuries: Tuscany (e.g., Rustico Filippi, Cecco Angiolieri, Folgore da San 
Gimignano) and the Veneto (e.g., Nicold dei Rossi, Guercio da Montesanto). Perugia 
does not fall into either geographical area, but is located at the periphery of the former. 
Thus, even though the Perugian poets do write comic verse, they should not be 
considered central figures in the development of that style nor should comicity define 
them or their literary productions. The rest of the third chapter is dedicated to readings of 
several of the typically comic works by these poets, and Berisso shows that they often 
make recourse to enigmatic language as a way to discuss homoeroticism. 

In an opening preface to the work, author Marco Berisso notes that the book is the 
re-elaboration of a doctoral thesis directed by the renowned Italian philologist Domenico 
De Robertis. In keeping with De Robertis’s high standards in literary studies, his former 
student, Berisso, demonstrates great skill in dealing with matters that are both 
codicological and strictly literary. The volume is well researched and painstakingly 
detailed, such that Berisso’s conclusions are easily accepted by the reader. More than the 
reworking of a tesi di dottorato, this study represents an important contribution to the 
field of medieval poetry in that it raises a number of important issues surrounding that 
particular school of poets. For years to come, scholars who deal with the so-called 
sodomiti perugini will need to deal with the conclusions advanced by Berisso therein. 

Fabian Alfie, University of Arizona, Tucson 


Romeo and Juliet Before Shakespeare. Four Early Stories of Star-Crossed Love. 
Trans. Nicole Prunster. Toronto: Centre for Reformation and Renaissance Studies, 
2000. Pp. 127. 

As its title suggests, this short volume contains translations of four Renaissance novellas 
(three Italian and one French), which together form part of the background to 
Shakespeare’s Romeo and Juliet. According to the translator, Nicole Prunster, these 
particular stories by Masuccio Salernitano, Luigi da Porto, Matteo Bandello, and Pierre 
Boaistuau have been selected among many similar tales on the grounds that “they 
constitute the main stream [...] of the story’s evolution toward the tragedy’s definitive 
literary realisation” (Preface). The translations are preceded by a brief introduction 
giving biographical information about the authors included and an overview of some 
salient aspects of the Romeo and Juliet story. Despite its reduced length, the introduction 
provides both a quantity of interesting information about the development of the tale, 
including discussion of versions not translated here, and some useful suggestions for 
approaching the texts. Although it is not clearly stated, the book appears to be aimed 


482 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


mainly at students of English literature, or more generally at non-specialist readers with 
an interest in Shakespeare and his sources, who do not read Italian or French. While the 
tale of Romeo and Juliet is undoubtedly of interest in its own right, this type of 
publication is hard to justify except through reference to Shakespeare and the needs of a 
student audience. As is to be expected, the tales, with the partial exception of Masuccio’s 
version, are extremely similar (Boaistuau’s story being itself a translation of Bandello). 
With this knowledge in mind, the translator could have included a fuller account of 
Shakespeare’s version of the story, with its debts to and divergences from the preceding 
tradition, as well as a more extensive bibliography. 

The issue of intended audience is of relevance also when one assesses the 
translations themselves. Inevitably, literary translation poses problems of style and 
register, exacerbated in rendering early modern texts into any contemporary language. 
Renaissance prose, with its florid style and complex syntax, frequently forces the 
translator to compromise between preserving the rhetorical flavour of the original, and 
achieving an elegant and readable English version. On this account, the translations in 
this book leave something to be desired. The stories read awkwardly, with the constant 
(and generally unnecessary) use of archaic English sitting uncomfortably with a 
sprinkling of modern colloquialisms; the decision to preserve, where possible, the 
syntactical structure of the originals makes for an unwieldy and sometimes confusing 
text. Whilst arguments could be made in favour of a literal version, especially given the 
obviously didactic aim of this collection, the numerous inaccuracies in the translation 
make the sacrifice of a fluent and accessible English text hard to justify. 

Perhaps the most serious flaw in this volume is the large number of errors in 
translation, often involving relatively simple expressions. To cite a few examples from 
Da Porto’s tale, perhaps the least well rendered of all the four stories: “nelle tre o nelle 
quattro ore di notte” is not “around three or four in the morning” (39), but “three or four 
hours after sunset”; “alcun anno” is not “several years” (28) but “about a year.” The St. 
Zeno area is not “now known as St Bernardino” (42); St Bernardino is within the area 
still known as St. Zeno today. Describing the dance which allows Romeo to approach 
Juliet, the sentence “In questa danza d’alcuna donna fu il giovane levato e a caso 
appresso la gia innamorata fanciulla posta [...]” is translated “In this dance [...] no 
woman chose the young man who, by chance, found himself next to the already 
enamoured Juliet” (30). Although “alcuno” can, of course, mean “no” / “none,” in this 
case it is synonymous with “una.” The sentence (which as it stands makes little sense) 
should read: “The young man was drawn into the dance by one of the women, and by 
chance [...]” (as we have already been told, this dance is one which involves swapping 
partners). On other ‘occasions, a mistranslation is compounded by a confusing or 
ambiguous rendering in English; an example is the sentence, “Da me non rimarra mai che 
voi meco onestamente non viviate [...],” given in English as, “I shall never be to blame if 
you do not live honestly with me [...]” (32). The meaning of “rimarra mai” here is much 
stronger than “be to blame”: Juliet is not simply declining moral responsibility for an 
action she intends to take; she is refusing categorically to consider anything other than 
legitimate marriage to Romeo. 

On a syntactical level, the elaborate sentence structure favoured by all these tales, 
but difficult to retain in modern English without creating confusion, is perhaps the most 
persistent problem. While the translator does partially solve the problem by breaking up 
long sentences into a number of shorter periods, the preservation of the original 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 483 


syntactical structure even where this entails abandoning normal English word order 
makes for an unwieldy and sometimes incorrect text, as in the expression “quanto 
possibil fia con minor travaglio,” translated “as far as possible with less tribulation” (68). 
Another persistent issue is the English register chosen. Although it is stressed that the 
translation is into contemporary English, this is not really the case; the text has a strongly 
archaic flavour, both in the choice of vocabulary and in the syntax used. While both are 
to some extent inevitable in order to preserve the imagery and rhetoric which form 
important components of the original texts, many of the expressions employed are 
absolutely redundant. The use of “maid” or “maiden” for “la giovane,” of “dame” for “la 
vecchia,” and the frequency with which archaisms such as “begone,” “avails me nought,” 
or “woe is me” appear, do not to correspond to any objective requirements. The generally 
formal register makes the occasional use of contemporary or colloquial expressions seem 
out of place: a few examples are the description of Romeo as “fun-loving” (30) for 
“giocoso,” “the authorities” (20) for “la corte,” or “she took it into her head” (95) for 
“s’advisa” (wrongly suggesting irrational caprice rather than a carefully thought out 
decision). More importantly, the use of an elaborate and formal register in English does 
not reflect the frequent shifts in register characteristic of the original novellas; equally, it 
is impossible to gain any sense of the considerable stylistic and linguistic divergences 
between the four tales on the basis of these versions. 

The decision to publish an English version of these stories is a laudable one, ideally 
appealing to both university students and a wider audience. That the tale of Romeo and 
Juliet is already well-known forms further encouragement to approach what otherwise 
might be unfamiliar territory. However, readers are not well-served by this volume, 
which does little to advance the cause of Renaissance literature in translation. The 
English text does not read well, nor is the woodenness of the translation compensated for 
by rigorous accuracy. The numerous infelicities which mar these versions suggest that the 
publication was probably put together with some haste; it is difficult to imagine that such 
a large number of errors could have escaped the attention of a second reading by the 
translator herself or by a competent proof-reader. 

Erika Milburn, Naples 


Lucrezia Tornabuoni de’ Medici. Sacred Narratives. Ed. and trans. Jane Tylus. 
Chicago: U of Chicago P, 2001. 

As for all the texts published in the series “The Other Voice in Early Modern Europe,” 
also the present one is prefaced by an introduction (1-20) in which the editors, Margaret 
King and Albert Rabil, outline, within an historical framework, the traditional views of 
woman’s nature and the literary works (by men and women) pertinent to the 
argumentation. Tylus’s contribution to such chronological documentation is marked by 
the present volume where, for the first time, Tornabuoni’s /audi and five storie sacre are 
collected in a cohesive and organic fashion. Tornabuoni’s poetry is, in fact, to be found in 
a number of separate manuscripts held at the Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale in Florence, 
and this edition gives now the possibility of reading these texts in translation and 
evincing the thematic, stylistic, and socio-political elements which characterize these 
works. Lucrezia belonged to a very well-established Florentine family of the fifteenth 
century, and she became even more prominent as the wife of Piero de’ Medici and the 
mother of Lorenzo the Magnificent. Most of the poetry was written after Piero’s death in 


484 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


1469, at a very delicate juncture of Florence’s history when Lorenzo, just twenty years 
old, rose to power, and only a few years before the tragic Pazzi Conspiracy (1478) in 
which Lorenzo’s younger brother, Giuliano, was assassinated. Lucrezia was a witness to 
these events which must have been forever present in her mind as she carefully chose 
personages and themes from the Bible through which she could convey her views of the 
society of her times. It is, therefore, telling that Lucrezia chose the lives of Old Testament 
heroines Susanna, Judith, and Esther to highlight the way in which women influenced, 
directly or indirectly with their conduct, the socio-political ambience of their times. The 
selection of John the Baptist (Florence’s patron saint) and Tobias (a model of the 
charitable merchant) also testifies to the important role that women played in these two 
stories. 

Despite the choice of biblical models, Lucrezia’s poetry, as had become the trend by 
the 1480s, is characterized by a pervasive secularism. As was the case later with Lorenzo, 
who wrote almost exclusively in volgare, Lucrezia’s poetry is all in the vernacular and 
rich in expressions and stylistic devices which recall, on the one hand, the cantari which 
she could have heard in the churches and the piazzas, and on the other, the tradition of the 
sacre rappresentazioni. It is rather intriguing that Lucrezia never tried her hand at one of 
these compositions — even her son Lorenzo composed in 1490 the Rappresentazione di 
San Giovanni e Paolo — since the eight-line stanzas in which she composed two of her 
storie sacre could have been easily turned into a dialogued form. In the introduction (21- 
53), Tylus draws very aptly the reader’s attention to the above-mentioned problematics 
by contextualising Tornabuoni’s life within the history of Florence, and by focusing on 
the variety of her writings: /audi, canzoni, and sonnets. At the end of her introduction, 
Tylus gives ample documentation of women as biblical storytellers, and concludes that 
Tornabuoni chose these women because, in one way or another, they manipulated 
powerful men in order to save their reputation or their people (as is the case with Judith 
and Esther). 

Tornabuoni’s Old Testament translations are all drawn from Jerome’s Vulgate, and 
the fact that here the stories of Judith, Tobias, and Esther are grouped together points to 
Tornabuoni’s possible view that they are thematically interrelated: the stories take place 
either during periods of Jewish captivity in Persia or Babylon, or while Israel is under 
threat. Thus, powerful oriental men appear in all of them while in The Story of Devout 
Susanna, the elders take on some of the characteristics of the foreign oppressors. 
Tornabuoni brings a number of variants into this story that invites a comparison with 
another well-known tale in Renaissance Florence: the rape of Lucretia. Furthermore, 
Tornabuoni’s Susanna is allowed a greater speaking role than she has in the Book of 
Daniel. While Tornabuoni could hardly portray Susanna as a “redeemer” of her people, 
she shows interest in this personage insofar as she “enables the emergence of a prophet 
whose gifts will bring hope to a people who live in captivity” (58). As with the story of 
Susanna, possibly originating in folktales, about a slandered woman dating roughly from 
100-50 B.C., the story of Tobias was very well known in fifteenth-century Florence, and 
was one of the earliest to be translated into the Tuscan dialect. There were many 
iconographic illustrations of the story to which Tornabuoni could also refer in order to 
emphasize the didactic focus of this biblical episode: faith in God, the power of prayer, 
the willingness to rebel against political authority, and the heavy costs of the rebellion. 
Besides the figure of the elderly Tobias, the exemplary believer and sufferer, and that of 
the young Tobias, Tornabuoni reserves an important role also for his wife Sarah, cursed 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 485 


by the deaths of her first seven husbands but clinging to her belief that God is saving for 
her a man of her tribe. 

Within the city of Florence, the iconographic reminders of the story of Judith and 
Holofernes are just as rich as the ones for the story of Tobias; it suffices here to note 
Donatello’s statue, which was commissioned by either Cosimo or Piero de’ Medici, and 
which acquired an evident political connotation after Piero’s victory over the Pitti faction 
in 1466. Lucrezia’s Judith significantly underlines the pride and reckless ambition of the 
kings while, at the same time, focusing on the young Hebrew widow’s valiant behaviour. 
In Esther’s story Tornabuoni analyses the king’s attitude towards the young girl; he wants 
to find out why Esther is petitioning him on behalf of the people who, as she will 
eventually have to reveal, are her own. The Life of Saint John the Baptist is Lucrezia’s 
most original poem since she makes twenty stanzas out of the single verse in Mark, and 
the poem has no connection with the very rich tradition of sacre rappresentazioni on the 
theme. Tornabuoni seems principally interested in showing how Salome was manipulated 
by her mother’s ambitions; hence the court intrigues which bring about the Baptist’s 
demise are only marginal to the story. 

Tornabuoni’s nine /audi follow the metrical and thematic range of contemporary 
poems of praise; four of them are set to the same music which accompanied secular 
poems, such as Poliziano’s ballad Ben venga maggio. For all the texts which make up this 
volume, Tylus provides notes at the end of each page, drawing attention to points relative 
to the difficulty in translation and adding other comments which facilitate the 
comprehension of the poetry. A very well-organized bibliography and an index of names 
aptly complete the volume. 

Bruno Ferraro, University of Auckland 


Ronnie Ferguson. The Theatre of Angelo Beolco (Ruzante). Text, Context, and 
Performance. Ravenna: Longo, 2000. 

Ferguson’s book, divided into six chapters, presents an overview of Beolco’s works and 
the scholarship on them, closing with an ample bibliography. Chapter One, “The Ruzante 
Corpus,” which opens with a listing of extant manuscripts, presents the modern title, 
original title, dramatis personae, language(s), fictional setting, genre, plot (analytical 
overview), performances and date, manuscript(s), first edition, modern critical editions, 
and essential bibliography for all of the works except the songs. Careful readings of the 
plays are conveyed in lively, perceptive plot summaries that unabashedly cite Beolco’s 
often adolescent humor and allude to his social concerns. A particularly good example is 
the finely wrought evocation of the Ruzante character in La Moscheta (44). Ferguson’s 
remarks about the performability of the plays and a modern audience’s likely response to 
them provide much food for thought. Some problems, however, are produced by the 
sequencing of material. Ferguson reserves discussion of contemporary theatrical genres 
to Chapter Four, leaving many readers to guess as to exactly what the “Venetian 
vilanesca, buffonesca and bulesca” (37) genres might be. The nature of the vilanesca, 
never defined and referred to in a variety of ways, is especially unclear. For example, 
according to Ferfuson, the play presented by Beolco in 1520 that diarist Marin Sanudo 
described as a “‘comedia a la vilanesca’” (134-36, citing Sanudo) offers a salient example 
of a subgenre of the vilanesca, the mariazo. Yet the 1520 play is generally believed to be 
La pastoral, not a mariazo, on the basis of research by Mario Baratto (“L’esordio di 


486 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Ruzante” in Tre studi sul teatro, Venezia: Neri Pozza, 1968, 11-68). 

Such a vast territory is difficult to cover evenly, which results in a partial use of the 
bibliography often boiling down to a summary of the positions of Ludovico Zorzi, 
Giorgio Padoan, and Marisa Milani (and some scholars’ names are not included in the 
index, e.g., Nancy Dersofi). Lovarini’s fundamental research is largely absent from the 
discussion, Grabher’s essential psychological and social insights are never mentioned, 
Baratto’s historical contextualization is missing, the wisdom of Borsellino is not invoked, 
the insights of Davico Bonino are omitted, Calendoli’s refreshing suggestion of a peasant 
audience for the Prima Oratione does not appear. Knowledgable readers will search in 
vain for Mario Prosperi’s brilliant analysis of La Moscheta in terms of the religious 
positions of the time and the relationship of Beolco’s early works to texts of Erasmus (to 
which Ferguson himself contributed) and More. Venice’s role in the struggle for control 
of the Italian peninsula and its effect on the internal dynamic of the Republic and its 
dominion are rarely considered. 

The ambitious scope of the project apparently did not always leave time to 
adequately research the topics treated. Ferguson reads the transcription date of the 
Pastoral manuscript as “zuni [June] 1521” (18) (the line continues with “a di 7”). An 
examination of the manuscript shows, however, that the word that Ferfguson reads as 
“zuni” is, instead, “jesus,” a heading that appears at the top of each folio of the 
manuscript. While on the initial folio (6r) the top loop of the first s has been partially lost 
by the fraying of the paper, it is clearly legible on subsequent folios; moreover, an n 
would not have been written out but indicated by a mark over the vowel. Two respected 
editors have transcribed the heading as “Jesus”: Emilio Emilio Lovarini (“La pastoral,” 
Studi sul Ruzzante e sulla letteratura pavana, ed. Gianfranco Folena, Padova: Antenore, 
1965, 275) and Ludovico Zorzi (“Note a La pastoral,” in Angelo Beolco, Ruzante teatro, 
ed. and trans. L. Zorzi, 2"! ed., Torino: Einaudi, 1967, 1283). The emblematic use of 
“Jesus” during the War of Cambrai and its aftermath is explicated by Achille Olivieri in 
Riforma ed eresia a Vicenza nel Cinquecento (Roma: Herder, 1992). Moreover, zuni was 
not the form then current in dialect for June but zugno, as Marin Sanudo’s Diaries show, 
with the day preceding the month (Marino Sanuto, / Diarii, ed. R. Fulin et al., 58 vols., 
Venezia: Visentini, 1879-1902, e.g. 42: 52, 598). The discussion of the Betia (24) refers 
to “an almost verbatim paraphrase, in the play, of a topical Paduan song (I, 337-48) 
published as pro-Venetian propaganda during the War of the League of Cambrai,” but no 
title or publication information is given, nor is the song quoted. Moreover, the reader who 
turns to the passage (Zorzi ed., 179) finds that it contains Barba Scati’s (ironic?) praise of 
Bembo and his views on love. Soldiers of the Betia (V, 832-34; Zorzi ed., 433) are 
described as “German and Swiss Imperial troops” (22) but the Swiss, who had their own 
quarrels with the emperor, usually fought for the French; the list in fact names soldiers of 
various states, including Venice’s stradioti (“stralivuoti”), billetted in Padua, the 
principal garrison town of the mainland state. The structure on top of St. Mark’s 
Belltower to which Ruzante refers in the Lettera giocosa is defined as “the cages 
[normally used for criminals] hung from St. Mark’s belltower” (30). Beolco’s word, 
solaro (Venetian soler, see citation from Sanudo 91), was not used for the cages, or 
gabbioni, which were not hung from the belltower but were located in the Terra Nova, a 
granary at what is currently the site of the Marciana Library (Giovanni Scarabello, 
Carceri e carcerati a Venezia nell’eta moderna, Roma: Istituto della Enciclopedia 
Italiana, 1979, 6). It referred, instead, to one of several types of raised structure, including 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 487 


the roof structure typical of Venetian homes now termed al/tana, and risers for spectators 
at performances. A /autuolo is a lutepick, not a lute (32). Menato was not a “kinsman” of 
Ruzante and Betia (42-45); they were his “comare” and “compare” (La moscheta 587, 
591 par. 2), probably not in the technical sense of “godmother” and “godfather” but 
“neighbor” or “close friend” typical of close-knit rural societies in which cooperation is 
vital to survival. 

A further problem is the presentation of assertions as certainties. The “real venue” 
(29) of the Lettera giocosa is stated unequivocally to be “the palace of the Venetian 
patrician Francesco Dona.” Only later (30) comes the nuanced “[p]lausibly performed,” 
which, however, does not acknowledge that diarist Marin Sanudo’s record, while naming 
other patrician homes where the group stopped (including the doge’s, not mentioned until 
75), makes no reference to Dona’s (J Diarii 35: 393). The impediment is not 
insurmountable, as Sanudo does omit details, but it should be dealt with. No support is 
provided for the declaration of “Ruzante’s false etymology of his own name” (65), nor 
does Ferguson report other scholars’ views on the issue. 

Chapter Two “Reception: Critical and Production History” chronicles what is known 
or theorized about Beolco’s performances, his influence, and the revival of his works. 
Again, much fundamental material is included, an appreciable portion of it for the first 
time in English; yet the fragmented sequence, the apparent unfamiliarity with relevant 
scholarship, the unsupported declarations, and the errors mar the results. (Moreover, the 
entire manuscript would have benefited from an attentive copy editor and proofreader). 
The triumphalist description of Beolco’s Venetian performances (73-76) fails to mention 
the scandal associated with a number of them (90-94). The intriguing parsing of 
Cristoforo da Messisbugo as “da Messi, known as Sbugo (glutton)” (77) is not supported 
by evidence. Many sixteenth-century Venetians would have been startled by the assertion 
that Doge Andrea Gritti was “apparently tolerant of satire directed at his person” (87), 
with no examples or documentation given. Lorena Favaretto’s groundbreaking insights 
into the rural governance issues crucial to Beolco’s texts are relegated to a brief footnote 
(88n61). A greater knowledge of military life would have benefited the discussion of the 
Veteran: Ruzante was not a “petty thief’ (88) but was exercising the soldier’s right to 
plunder: “botinizare” (523, par. 22). He is not a “volunteer” (88) but complains about the 
pay periods’ 100 days (523, par. 30). The summary of Beolco’s influence (95-106) will 
open up much Italian literature for English-language readers, though Galileo’s 
professional reasons for interest in Beolco and the connection between the French 
Revolution and the revival of Beolco’s works by George and Maurice Sand, both well 
documented in the scholarship, are missed. 

Chapter Three discusses “Biography and Patronage.” Considerations of the Beolco- 
Cornaro relationship (11-20) do not include the noted similarity between the murdered 
Andronico and Alvise Cornaro, though Ferguson does make the valuable observation that 
neither Cornaro with his proclaimed love for the playwright nor members of the Beolco 
family (who, it might be added, were either in exile or estranged from him through 
inheritance quarrels) placed the stone on his tomb (119-20). Chapter Four, “Explorations 
of Genre and Language,” evokes Venetian theatrical activity of the time, though the 
consideration of the Crosechieri monastery as venue (124, 167) is voided by the fact that 
it was not rebuilt from the 1514 fire until 1543 (Silvia Lunardon, “L’Ospedale dei 
Crociferi,” Hospitale 5. Mariae Cruciferorum. L’ospizio dei Crociferi a Venezia, ed. 
Silvia Lunardon, Venezia: Istituzioni di Ricovero e di Educazione, 1984, 42 and n. 56.) 


488  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


The reason that “it has not been sufficiently emphasised that he [Beolco] had Plautus and 
Terence at his fingertips, in the originals” (140) may be that Jose Oliveira Barata’s article 
(cited on 141n72) showed that Beolco had very little Latin and relied on a 
volgarizzamento or Italian translation of the Rudens for the Piovana. For the influence of 
Erasmus’s De militis confessio on the Veteran (148-49) see Eugenio Battisti, 
L’antirinascimento, Milano: Feltrinelli, 1962, 305-08 (in the Bibliography). 

Chapter Five, “Stages, Staging, and Stagecraft,” offers a range of charming and 
quite practical suggestions about how the plays were staged in Beolco’s time or could be 
staged now. It includes valuable considerations on Beolco’s union of word and gesture, 
and his professionalism, as well as on the likely presence of female performers on his 
stage (182-83), the context of which may be augmented by information from the work of 
scholars such as Michele Catalano, Giulio Bertoni, and Alessandro Luzio on 
noblewomen’s participation in court productions of the late fifteenth and early sixteenth 
centuries, and Elissa Weaver’s work on the theater of Tuscan nuns. 

In the final chapter, “The Ethics of the Natural,” Ferguson makes some interesting 
comments about Beolco’s philosophy of the natural in the context of the works of 
Aristotle and the Stoics then being read and studied in Padua and Venice. He does not 
raise the question of why, given that these ideas were available to all participants in the 
educated discourse of the time, only Beolco developed them, and with a single-minded 
commitment. The chapter concludes with an assertion of the centrality of “cyclical 
repetition” (225) to Beolco’s works and thought. But cyclical repetition occurred only in 
the late pieces, after Beolco’s lack of inheritance and the termination of his career in 
Venice had made it clear to him that if he wished to live a comfortable life, he would 
have to accept the restrictions imposed on him by Cornaro’s patronage, and on peninsular 
society in general, by the Peace of Bologna, which had sealed its dominance by Charles 
V and set the Church on the road to Trent. In Turnerian terms, Ferguson’s 
characterization of Beolco’s thought is liminal; on the contrary, as has been 
demonstrated, the playwright’s unique contribution was as a great pioneer of the 
liminoid. 

Linda L. Carroll, Newcomb College, Tulane University 


Mariantonietta Acocella. L’asino d’oro nel Rinascimento. Dai volgarizzamenti alle 
raffigurazioni pittoriche. Ravenna: Longo, 2001. 

Questo volume consiste di tre parti e si consiglia di iniziarne la lettura dall’ultima, 
l’appendice (159-87) che contiene “I] volgarizzamento del Lucio o I’asino” con il titolo 
Aseno d’oro. Per quest’edizione critica Acocella si é affidata a due testimoni: il ms. 
Vichiano Chigiano L. VI. 215 e l’edizione veneziana dello Zoppino del 1523, cioé il 
volgarizzamento di Matteo Maria Boiardo. La lettura del racconto di Lucio, tramutato in 
asino e poi restituito alle sue sembianze umane, é indispensabile per chi vuole apprezzare 
a fondo i dotti commenti e le ipotesi erudite che ritroviamo nelle altre due parti: la prima 
contenente una disamina della circolazione delle opere di Luciano, del suo relativo 
volgarizzamento, delle corrispondenze con il testo di Apuleio nonché del passaggio dal 
manoscritto alla stampa. Delle avventure di Lucio si hanno due testi del II secolo d.C.: in 
greco nel Lucio o /’asino di incerta attribuzione ma probabilmente I’autore é quel 
Luciano di Samosata a cui forse dobbiamo un altro testo di ispirazione “fantastica” 
(quell’immaginario “viaggio sulla luna”) e in latino nelle Metamorfosi o Asino d’oro di 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 489 


Apuleio di Madaura. La differenza pit significativa tra i due testi sta nell’impostazione e 
nell’andamento del racconto. In quello greco il racconto delle disavventure dell’asino é 
fine a se stesso mentre in quello latino le peripezie di Lucio sono incastonate in una 
“cornice” che racchiude, tra gli altri racconti, la favola di Amore e Psiche. Una lettura del 
testo in appendice facilitera i continui riscontri appuntati che Acocella fara nella prima 
parte alla tradizione del testo e nella seconda alla fortuna pittorica che la favola di Amore 
e Psiche ha avuto nel Rinascimento. 

Entrambe le opere godettero di larga fortuna nel Rinascimento, come viene attestato 
dalla breve panoramica delle edizioni quattro-cinquecentesche dei due testi; per il testo di 
Luciano, trattandosi di un autore greco, la diffusione dell’ opera avvenne nel Quattrocento 
soprattutto per opera di traduzioni in latino mentre pochi sono i volgarizzamenti. Tra 
questi spicca quello attribuito a Leoniceno; nonostante la contestazione sulla paternita del 
Leoniceno di tutti i volgarizzamenti lucianei (si ricordi che il Vaticano Chigiano che li 
contiene é adespoto e anepigrafo), in favore del Leoniceno si ha la attendibile 
testimonianza del Giovio. Sempre a Ferrara, sul finire del Quattrocento, Matteo Maria 
Boiardo volgarizza le Metamorfosi che vengono pubblicate con il titolo di Apulegio 
volgare dallo Zoppino di Venezia a partire dal 1518. Acocella esclude la paternita del 
Boiardo di Lucio o |'asino in modo convincente con una serie di confronti tra Il’ originale 
greco e il volgarizzamento e ritiene accettabile, invece, quella di Niccold Leoniceno la 
cui serieta di studioso (nonché esperto in materie filosofiche e mediche) é vastamente 
attestata e riconosciuta. Nella cerchia di amici ritroviamo alcune delle personalita 
intellettuali e letterarie dell’epoca: Ermolao Barbaro, Angelo Poliziano e Aldo Manuzio, 
per menzionare solo alcuni. Le divergenze tra l’originale greco e quello latino viene 
rispecchiato anche nei corrispondenti volgarizzamenti, come dimostra Acocella con una 
copiosa disamina del finale delle due versioni; per quanto riguarda l’ultimo libro (1X1) 
del testo di Apuleio si legge: “Lo stacco tra questo libro e i precedenti, sebbene sia netto, 
é perd soltanto stilistico: Apuleio abbandona completamente il livello comico e si 
concentra su quello allegorico-misterico, che si rivela la chiave di lettura del romanzo” 
(55). 

Il significato allusivo di questo finale, con i riferimenti mistici ai riti di Iside, lo si 
ritrova anche nella favola di Psiche e Cupido (che occupa la parte centrale del romanzo) e 
rientra idealmente nell’ottica neoplatonica rinascimentale. Tale interpretazione viene 
avallata da Filippo Beroaldo il Vecchio, autore di un commento all’opera di Apuleio che 
fu decisivo per la diffusione dell’opera. Dal confronto tra il finale apuleiano, quello del 
Lucio e dell’ Apulegio volgare si evincono delle particolarita linguistiche e stilistiche che 
confermano, secondo Acocella, la seguente ipotesi: Leoniceno e non Boiardo ha tradotto 
dall’originale greco il testo del Lucio pseudo-lucianeo. Dal confronto tra il Lucio e 
l’Apulegio del Boiardo si derivano anche le date delle due opere: la data ante quem € il 
1494, data della morte del Boiardo, mentre il 1471 (ma 1479 piu probabile) é la data post 
quem. Acocella, inoltre, suggerisce che il contenuto religioso dell’ultimo libro delle 
Metamorfosi sia la ragione per cui Boiardo |’abbia omesso nel suo volgarizzamento e 
cosi fara anche il Firenzuola la cui versione di L’asino d’oro, a partire dal 1550, 
soppiantera quella boiardesca. Nel riassumere i confronti e le divergenze tra i tre testi 
presi in considerazione e nel contestualizzare tale disamina all’interno del dibattito 
filosofico-religioso del Rinascimento, Acocella conclude questa prima parte con le 
seguenti osservazioni: “E per quanto riguarda |’interpretazione di Apuleio stesso, 
abbiamo gia menzionato la fortuna del commento del Beroaldo, successivo di pochi anni 


490 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


al volgarizzamento boiardesco, che nella prefazione avalla un’interpretazione allegorica 
globalmente misterica (senza poi addentrarsi in essa), e nell’esegesi dell’XI libro, 
rivelando le affinita tra culto isiaco e culto cristiano, é portato ad attribuire caratteri 
cristiani alla religiosita apuleiana, cogliendo un’unita di religioni” (80). 

La seconda parte di questo volume — introdotta da cinquantacinque illustrazioni 
sulle avventure di Lucio e sulla favola di Amore e Psiche — testimonia come la fortuna 
figurativa dell’Asino d’oro é legata al quadro centrale del racconto apuleiano. Per la 
pittura, i primi esempi rinascimentali di rielaborazioni figurative di cui abbiamo notizia 
appartengono al Quattrocento fiorentino. Ma solo dopo la diffusione a stampa di Apuleio 
e della sua fortuna in ambito ferrarese, si testimonia una serie di dipinti e cicli eseguiti da 
artisti di gran fama: da Giorgione (purtroppo i suoi sedici dipinti sono andati perduti) a 
Raffaello che diede l’impulso decisivo alla diffusione di questo soggetto in pittura nel 
1517 quando affrescd la loggia della villa suburbana di Agostino Chigi (la futura 
“Farnesina”). L’esempio raffaellesco produsse una vera e propria scuola e tra gli allievi é 
d’obbligo ricordarne almeno due: Giulio Romano e Perin del Vaga. Al primo, tornando in 
area padana, dobbiamo gli affreschi del Palazzo del Te a Mantova dove Giulio Romano 
viene chiamato nel 1524 e dove, secondo Acocella, si verifica “una convergenza tra 
l’ispirazione pittorica romana raffaellesca e quella letteraria della tradizione ferrarese- 
mantovana promossa da [...] Isabella d’Este [...]” (125). Romano non solo riprende la 
tradizione raffaellesca della favola ma riesce a illustrarne tutti gli episodi in forma 
labirintica (e non lineare, com’era d’uso) sottolineando in questo modo il percorso del 
racconto come metafora del viaggio dell’anima umana. Parimenti originale é il ciclo di 
affreschi della Rocca di San Secondo, presso Parma, perché é I’unico ad illustrare le 
avventure dell’asino Lucio piuttosto che limitarsi al quadro centrale della favola di 
Amore e Psiche. Un confronto iconografico tra questi affreschi e le xilografie 
dell’Apulegio del 1519 (nonché un riscontro con quelle che accompagnavano il 
commento del Beroaldo del 1510) invitano nuovamente il lettore a ritornare ai testi e alle 
avventure di Lucio per coglierne le varianti e rapportarle alle rielaborazioni 
iconografiche. Acocella completa il volume con una vasta bibliografia sul soggetto e con 
due indici che stanno a testimoniare il doppio impegno scientifico nella presentazione di 
questo volume: quello filologico della prima parte e, nella seconda, quello dedicato alle 
riprese figurative della storia di Amore e Psiche. 

Bruno Ferraro, Unversity of Auckland 


Ronnie H. Terpening. Lodovico Dolce, Renaissance Man of Letters. Toronto: U of 
Toronto P, 1997. Pp. 310. 

While his contemporaries praised both his keen intellect and his abilities as a poet, 
Lodovico Dolce’s literary reputation declined drastically following his death in 1568. 
Once lauded by Pietro Aretino, Francesco Sansovino, and Veronica Gambara, today he 
occupies a position below the ranks of the recognized minori and figures among the 
“minimi, invisible except for a text or two” (4). When we consider that he was the most 
prolific poligrafo in sixteenth-century Venice, and the author, editor, or translator of over 
one hundred works, Dolce’s exclusion from the company of the great men and women of 
letters appears quite astounding. In his insightful volume Lodovico Dolce, Renaissance 
Man of Letters, Ronnie H. Terpening successfully bridges what he terms a startling gap 
“between Dolce’s reception in his own time and in our own” (5) by demonstrating the 


Annali d@’italianistica 20 (2002) 491 


author’s essential role in the diffusion and expansion of culture during the Cinquecento. 
As such, it is a welcome addition to Paul Grendler’s 1969 study of Venetian poligra/i, 
Critics of the Italian World, 1530-1560: Anton Francesco Doni, Nicold Franco & 
Ortensio Lando. 

By way of a biographical sketch in the first chapter, Terpening furnishes compelling 
arguments for reassessing Dolce’s remarkable career: Dolce published in, and thus 
contributed to the development of all major genres; he edited the classics of the Italian 
literary canon (Ariosto, Boccaccio, Petrarch), bestowing upon Dante’s Commedia the 
adjective divina; and, in his most productive years, some 40-50% of the books rolling off 
the Giolito presses passed through his hands. Terpening blames the deflation of Dolce’s 
literary fame in part on post-Romantic notions of originality that disregard early modern 
theories of imitation and riscrittura. For Dolce, imitation produced sweet results: he 
likened the author who imitates others to the bee that gathers raw material from a variety 
of flowers in order to produce honey. Many of Dolce’s contemporaries held similar 
views: the comic playwrights Ruzzante and Anton Francesco Grazzini both employed 
sartorial metaphors of new garments being fashioned from old cloth to describe 
riscrittura, the process by which classical plots were reworked and updated to form new 
comedies. Part of Terpening’s strategy for once again raising his author above the ranks 
of the minimi lies in the articulation of a new set of criteria sensitive to the literary norms 
of the Cinquecento by which to judge Dolce’s opus. Each of the following five chapters 
is both an elaboration of these criteria and an assessment of Dolce’s original efforts in 
various literary genres, including the chivalric epic (Chapter Two), comedy (Chapter 
Three), tragedy (Chapters Four and Five), and prose dialogues and treatises (Chapter 
Six). A comprehensive bibliography of Dolce’s original works, rifacimenti, translations, 
and editions rounds out this collection of essays. 

In Chapter Two, Terpening examines Dolce’s contributions to the development of 
the chivalric epic, a genre to which he maintained a lifelong devotion. Dolce authored 
five epics: J] Sacripante (1535-6), Stanze on Charles V’s victory in Africa (1535), 
Palmerino (1561), Primaleone (1562), and Le prime imprese di Conte Orlando (1572). 
He edited the poems of Poliziano, Ariosto, and Bernardo Tasso, and penned Italian 
versions of the /liad, the Odyssey, and the Aeneid. Through a reading of his Apologia 
contra ai detrattori dell’Ariosto (1536), Terpening sketches Dolce’s poetics. Dolce 
believed in writing to please the public, not academicians, sided with the moderns in 
questions of language, and espoused what Terpening terms a proto-Crocean idea of the 
organic unity of a text, according to which “niente in se stesso [€] discordante, niente 
mostruoso ma ogni cosa risulta in un corpo solo, ed in tutte parti corrispondente” (28). 
Through detailed plot summaries and close readings of selected passages from the 
Sacripante and the Prime imprese (the former a continuation of and the latter the 
antefatto for the Orlando furioso), Terpening argues that these poems merit 
reconsideration because they chart the changes in the genre between Ariosto and Tasso. 
While the central concern in the Sacripante, a “highly readable and enjoyable poem” 
(44), is the Saracen Sacripante’s love for Angelica, Terpening uncovers a thematic 
interplay between reason and passion, as well as an emphasis on honor and fidelity, that 
testify to the author’s emerging Counter-Reformation spirit. Published posthumously, the 
Prime imprese contains much that prefigures elements found in Tasso’s Gerusalemme 
liberata: an emphasis on duels and battles, disguised angels who intervene in the affairs 
of mortals, and a woman warrior who seems a prototype for Clorinda. 


492 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


In the analysis of Dolce’s comedies in Chapter Three, Terpening distinguishes 
between those that can be defined as rifacimenti of classical comedies, I capitano (1545) 
and // marito (1545), and those that are “original stories imbued with traditional features” 
(62), Il ragazzo (1541) and La Fabritia (1549). In this chapter, as throughout the study, 
Terpening’s perceptive critical gaze discerns details in Dolce’s texts previously 
overlooked by literary critics. Here he astutely notes that Dolce’s fifth comedy, // 
ruffiano (1551), which had been labelled an original comedy by Marvin Herrick, is 
actually an unacknowledged translation of Ruzzante’s La piovana. Thus, in this case, 
Dolce can rightly be accused of plagiarism. Noting that intertextuality is inherent to any 
rifacimento, Terpening eschews the type of source study undertaken by previous critics 
of Il capitano and II marito, in order to focus instead on the ways in which Dolce updates 
classical plots so as to account for contemporary customs. Terpening assumes a similar 
critical approach to Dolce’s original comedies and demonstrates their immense value to 
scholars of Renaissance culture as mirrors of sixteenth-century Italian society that reflect 
the debate on the worth of women, the status of different professions, as well as social 
practices as varied as slavery, dowries, and abortion. The many pages dedicated to 
reviewing and refuting earlier critical studies of // ragazzo, in which Terpening argues 
that Dolce’s comedy has been misguidedly criticized for being derivative and lacking 
suspense, will most likely appeal more to scholars of theater than to the general reader. 

Terpening explores Dolce’s many contributions to Italian tragedy in two chapters, 
noting that his translations of four of Euripides’s and ten of Seneca’s tragedies are 
enough to garner him praise. In Chapter Four, Terpening affirms that Dolce’s comparison 
of his own tragedies to those of Trissino, Rucellai, and Giraldi was an apt one, because 
all of these authors shared a tragic world view according to which the transgressive acts 
of the tyrant stood in opposition to the “rational order inherent in the universe” (99). The 
enthusiastically received performances of Dolce’s Marianna (1565) and Troiane (1567) 
by acclaimed actors in the palaces of Venetian nobles attest to the author’s considerable 
abilities as a tragedian. In Chapter Five, Terpening analyzes three tragedies based on 
Virgil’s tale of Dido which fill in the blanks in a genealogy that culminates in 
Metastasio’s masterpiece Didone abbandonata: Alessandro Pazzi de’ Medici’s Didone in 
Cartagine, Giambattista Giraldi Cinthio’s Didone, and Dolce’s Didone. Through a close 
comparative reading of each tragedy and its model, Terpening documents a shift from 
imitation to emulation. He posits, “[...] one can state that we move in less than twenty- 
five years from a rapport of filiation in Pazzi (or intertextuality, in the classic sense of the 
word as used by Julia Kristeva) to one of continuity (or genealogy, as used by Paolo 
Valesio) in Giraldi, to one of relationship (or transtextuality, as used by Gérard Genette) 
in Dolce, where, however, the ties to Virgil’s epic are manifest rather than hidden” (126). 
Here lies my only quibble with this otherwise excellent study. I wish that Terpening had 
utilized this fascinating theoretical framework in a more profound way throughout his 
discussion of Dolce’s theater in order to hone the distinctions he makes among imitations, 
free translations, original works, and acts of plagiarism. Admittedly, this is no easy task 
and would require a separate chapter to fully contextualize and address all the issues 
involved. While I accept Terpening’s taxonomy in its broadest terms, it gives rise to 
many questions concerning the content and limits of each category, for example: Why 
does Dolce usually indicate whether the work is a translation or a rifacimento on the title 
pages of his tragedies but not do so on those of his comedies? Does Dolce feel free to 
plagiarize Ruzzante’s La piovana because it is a comedy in dialect? How did other 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 493 


translators of the period theorize about their work? 

In the sixth chapter, Terpening illustrates the remarkable breadth of Dolce’s literary 
career. As a translator of non-fiction Latin texts, and as an author of treatises and 
dialogues on subjects as varied as gems, the status of women, memory, and painting, 
Dolce achieved the “praiseworthy goal of popularizing the elite culture of the time, 
rendering its more obscure aspects accessible to a much wider audience” (128). This 
“wider audience” includes modern scholars of Renaissance culture: Frances Yates 
preferred Dolce’s translation of Johannes Romberch’s treatise on memory Congestorium 
artificiose memorie to the original. Terpening dismisses those critics who berate Dolce as 
an “unfaithful” or “bad” translator, sustaining that such negative judgements disregard 
Dolce’s own concept of translation as the production of a fluid, easily read text. 
Furthermore, these same critics often overlook the great service Dolce provided for his 
readers: he transposed arcane Latin texts into a graceful Italian, expanded his translations 
to include explanations of technical terms, and modernized the often obscure lists of 
examples found in these treatises to include contemporary figures better known to his 
reading public. In this way, Dolce became the “master of those who knew naught” (164). 

This thoroughly documented, well-written study reaches its goal of rehabilitating 
Dolce’s literary reputation through the steady accumulation of his many — albeit often 
individually modest — contributions to Italian letters. The true value of Terpening’s 
study, however, extends far beyond this act of recuperation, for his insightful readings 
also unearth the great treasures to be found in Dolce’s vast bibliography for those of us 
engaged in genre or cultural studies. 

Suzanne Magnanini, University of Colorado, Boulder 


Micaela Rinaldi. Torquato Tasso e Francesco Patrizi: tra polemiche letterarie e 
incontri intellettuali. Ravenna: Longo Editore, 2001. Pp 119 
The publication of Tasso’s Gerusalemme liberata in 1581 immediately provoked massive 
debate surrounding its relative merits with respect to Ariosto’s Orlando furioso. Already 
in 1584 Camillo Pellegrino, opening his dialogue // carrafa, expressed the hope that “in 
questo breue discorso [...] si verra almeno in parte a terminar la questione, che di 
continuo si ha, non solo appresso del volgo, ma etiandio di huomini grauissimi, di chi 
habbia conseguito maggior grado di honore nell’Epica poesia, 6 Lodouico Ariosto, 6 vero 
Torquato Tasso.” The debate over Tasso and Ariosto is a rich source of fascinating texts, 
for it provided a context for an examination of fundamental philosophical and literary 
questions. The Carrafa, for instance, only pronounces its judgement on Tasso after a 
discussion of the first principles of Aristotelian poetics and their application to the epic 
poem. For Francesco Patrizi, the subject, alongside Tasso, of this useful book by Rinaldi, 
the response to Tasso was inextricably bound with the totality of his Platonic philosophy. 
The danger, when coming to examine this period of literary criticism, is that we 
succumb to the temptation to exaggerate the distinctions between the contributors to the 
debate. Bernard Weinberg’s magisterial History of Literary Criticism of the Italian 
Renaissance (Chicago: Chicago UP, 1964), for instance, argues that Patrizi’s intervention 
in the debate, and Tasso’s impassioned response, had one “primary role”: “to sharpen the 
distinction between Aristotelianism and Platonism” (1016). To reduce the debate between 
Tasso and Patrizi to a dogged restatement of stock Aristotelian and Platonic principles, 
however, would be to close off more nuanced readings of the texts. Rinaldi’s short book, 


494 Annali d@’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Torquato Tasso e Francesco Patrizi: tra polemiche letterarie e incontri intellettuali, 
based on work carried out for her tesi di laurea, aims to avoid such reductionism. It is a 
lucid discussion of the relationship between Torquato Tasso and Francesco Patrizi, 
particularly as that relationship develops following the publication of the Gerusalemme 
liberata. As the book’s subtitle advertises, it is a study of both affinity and divergence, 
and its aim is twofold: first, to present the evidence that Tasso and Patrizi had a close, if 
intermittent, personal friendship; second, to show that for all their apparent philosophical 
differences, striking points of commonality do emerge within their theoretical work. 

The first chapter draws together biographical information surrounding the 
encounters between Patrizi and Tasso, summarising the evidence for their probable 
meeting at Venice during Tasso’s stay at the Accademia during 1558 and 1559. Rinaldi 
goes on to describe Patrizi’s arrival at Ferrara in 1578, and provides an interesting 
interpretation of Patrizi and Tasso’s divergent experience of that intellectual climate. For 
Patrizi, the enthusiasm with which Ficino was being read in Ferrara made it the ideal 
place for him to pursue his thought. For Tasso, Rinaldi argues, the fear of an indifferent 
God (as expressed in his letter to Scipione Gonzaga of March 1579) could only be 
exacerbated by the popularity of Neo-Platonist speculation about the separateness of the 
realm of Ideas from the material world. Patrizi and Tasso met again in Rome following 
Patrizi’s arrival at the Universita della Sapienza in 1592, and it is in the context of this 
renewed personal acquaintance that a degree of intellectual rapprochement occurs: as 
Rinaldi points out, in this period a major shift in Tasso’s thinking about the nature of 
signs takes place. In Tasso’s dialogue, // conte, reflection on Egyptian hieroglyphics 
leads to a conviction that the very difficulty of understanding the strange and foreign 
language can be a means of inciting meraviglia. In Patrizi’s work, similarly, the concept 
of mystery in poetic language is seen as a way of reconnecting with underlying truth. 

Chapter two examines Patrizi’s Parere in difesa di Ludovico Ariosto, written in 
early 1585 in response to Camillo Pellegrino’s Carrafa. Rinaldi briefly traces the history 
of the debate around Ariosto and Tasso through a summary of some of the key texts: 
Giraldi’s Discorso intorno al comporre dei romanzi (1554); Pigna’s J romanzi of the 
same year; the della Crusca critiques of Tasso’s style (1585); Tasso’s own Apologia in 
difesa della Gerusalemme liberata. She is careful to distinguish between these texts, 
which often engaged in sustained and fundamental theoretical reflection, and others, such 
as Bastiano de’ Rossi’s published Lettera a Flaminio Monicelli, which attacked Tasso’s 
character. Rinaldi’s lucid discussion of Patrizi’s Parere thus places the text in context, 
and the originality of Patrizi’s intervention — which argued, among other things, that 
Aristotelian unity had always been a practical impossibility — is made clear. 

Chapter three examines Patrizi’s and Tasso’s conceptions of epic poetry; whilst this 
chapter is elegantly written, it stops short of a satisfactory exploration of the implications 
of the ideas it presents. In Tasso’s approach to Aristotelian unity, Rinaldi asserts, his 
instincts are towards multiplicity, and the need to achieve unity in poetry is a form of 
discipline for him. This assertion about Tasso’s psychology is inadequately justified. She 
then quotes sections of the Discorsi, which argue that a formal unity can be seen even in 
a complex and varied world; this is a unity which Rinaldi sees as having a “quasi perfetta 
corrispondenza” (53) with Patrizi’s Platonic sense of unity (“Ab Unitate primaria, 
Unitates omnes. Ab Unitatibus, Essentiae. Ab Essentiis, Vitae. A Vitis, Mentes” [Nova de 
universes philosophia, quoted in Rinaldi 52-53]). Rinaldi’s insistence on the affinity 
between Tasso and Patrizi here disguises the fact that in many respects the differences 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 495 


between the two conceptions of unity are more interesting than the similarities. For 
Tasso, unity can be found in, and imposed through, plot; for Patrizi, unity lies in a distant 
but single source, which is the creator of all multiplicity. Rather than a “quasi perfetta 
corrispondenza,” then, there is a momentary and perhaps illusory similarity between the 
two men’s thought here. Rinaldi goes on to discuss Patrizi’s conception of poetic fabula 
as a form of creativity, deriving from inspiration. There is clearly an interesting 
comparison to be made here with the second stanza of Gerusalemme liberata, and its 
invocation of a Christian Muse; it would have been interesting to see Rinaldi explore this 
aspect. 

Chapter four summarises the intellectual backdrop to Patrizi’s Trimerone, the final 
part of the second volume of Della poetica, published in 1586 and written as a response 
to Tasso’s Discorso sopra il Parere fatto dal Signor Francesco Patrizi in difesa di 
Ludovico Ariosto. As Rinaldi makes clear, the two texts have a strikingly different tenor: 
Tasso makes it clear that he has taken strong personal offence at Patrizi’s earlier 
intervention, whereas Patrizi insists on his admiration for Gerusalemme liberata and 
repeatedly describes Tasso as “l’amico nostro” and “cosi grande huomo.” Rinaldi 
chooses to devote little space to analysing the contents of the 7rimerone, perhaps because 
the text is reproduced in full in a lengthy — and highly useful — appendix. 

This book does us some service in drawing attention to Patrizi as an original and 
stimulating reader of Tasso. In showing a way beyond the predictability of labels such as 
“Aristotelianism” and “Platonism,” Rinaldi encourages us to re-visit the texts of the 
debate over Ariosto and Tasso. She writes clearly enough for this study to be a useful 
introduction to the debate, and there will also be much to interest those more familiar 
with it. Two concerns remain, however. First, some of Rinaldi’s most suggestive citations 
are not properly referenced. This is a great pity, since the value of her lucid explanations 
of inteliectual context is that it encourages her readers to revisit the primary texts. 
Second, this is a short book (70 pages, excluding the Appendix), and much of it is taken 
up with biographical detail about its two protagonists. Little of this detail is original, and 
much of it has only limited relevance to the more interesting discussions of the primary 
texts. The frustration is that the analysis of the text was not taken further and that Rinaldi 
chose to devote such a high proportion of this book to biographical detail, for she is an 
extremely sharp reader of both Tasso and Patrizi, and her lucid discussion of both writers 
deserves and rewards careful reading. 

Matthew Treherne, University of Cambridge 


Zsuzsanna Rozsnyéi. Dopo Ariosto. Tecniche narrative e discorsive nei poemi 
postariosteschi. Ravenna: Longo, 2000. 
Come gia Barilli avvertiva in un suo saggio per la Letteratura Italiana Laterza (in Nicola 
Badaloni, Walter Moretti, Renato Barilli, Cultura e vita civile tra Riforma e 
Controriforma, LIL 24, Bari: Laterza, 1979, 136-75), il contemporaneo interesse per la 
“scienza della letteratura” ha richiamato in tempi recenti l’attenzione sulla trattatistica 
letteraria del Cinquecento, oggetto di studi attenti e appassionati non solo in Italia ma 
anche in ambito europeo e specialmente nell’area anglosassone. Ricorderd, per limitarmi 
ad un intervento nordamericano, la recente edizione del Discorso dei romanzi di 
Giovambattista Giraldi Cinzio a cura di Laura Benedetti, Giuseppe Monorchio ed Enrico 
Musacchio (Bologna: Millennium 1999), con l’ampia e informata introduzione. 

Il volume di Zsuzsanna Rozsny6i viene ad illustrare un aspetto particolare della 


496 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


ricerca critica del Cinquecento nell’arco di tempo che va dalla pubblicazione 
dell’Orlando Furioso a quella del Rinaldo del Tasso, la ricerca cioé di un modo di fare 
narrativa che si richiamasse ai grandi modelli della classicita, sulla scia del dibattito sulle 
“regole”, in sofferta contrapposizione al fortunato romanzo dell’ Ariosto. Com’é noto, nel 
letterato del Cinquecento il travaglio critico spesso prende la forma non solo di 
trattazione teorica ma di realizzazione concreta di opere letterarie che, incarnando i 
principi teorici propugnati, si propongano come modelli esemplari a futuri eventuali 
imitatori, nella speranza di ottenere una fama imperitura per i loro autori. Ecco allora 
messi a fuoco, insieme alle affermazioni critiche presenti nei trattati e nelle lettere, alcuni 
poemi in cui si incarnano le proposte critiche degli autori, in primo luogo il Girone il 
Cortese di Luigi Alamanni, |’Ercole di Giambattista Giraldi Cinzio, l’Amadigi di 
Bernardo Tasso, ma anche il Costante di Felice Bolognetti, |’/talia liberata dai Goti di 
Giangiorgio Trissino, il Meschino detto il Guerrino di Tullia d’Aragona. Presupposte le 
discussioni che scaturiscono dai commenti alla Poetica di Aristotele e dalla svolta 
moraleggiante concomitante alla Controriforma, il libro della Rozsnydéi si concentra 
esclusivamente sui problemi formali attinenti alla composizione dei nuovi romanzi. La 
trattazione procede ad “imbuto”, attraverso quattro capitoli che dalle questioni pit 
generali sulla ricerca dei modelli classici da contrapporre all’abnorme Orlando furioso 
passa all’individuazione di alcuni modi di conferire “unita” al poema narrativo — unita 
intorno a un eroe protagonista, come nel Girone, unita nella storia di una vita come 
nell’ Ercole, unita “intesa come regola e misura” (51) come nell’ Amadigi —, affronta poi 
la discussione di alcune delle tecniche narrative esperite nei diversi poemi, e analizza 
finalmente alcune “unita discorsive” come gli esordi, le formule di passaggio e i congedi. 

Il pit interessante é probabilmente il terzo capitolo, dove viene messo a fuoco in 
maniera abbastanza precisa il travaglio critico, teorico e pratico, intorno ai rapporti tra 
favola ed episodi, l’articolazione delle digressioni rispetto alla favola portante, il 
problema della regolarizzazione della cronologia degli eventi, e la tendenza ad 
organizzare il racconto per blocchi narrativi, specialmente in quei poemi in cui, come 
nell’Amadigi di Bernardo Tasso, vengono portate avanti contemporaneamente le storie 
relative a tre protagonisti. Prima ancora della soluzione della Liberata e dei Discorsi sul 
poema epico, punto d’arrivo della riflessione teorico-pratica sul poema epico, sembra 
farsi strada nelle lettere del Giraldi Cinzio “l’idea dell’integritas [...] che nella sua 
dominante dimensione formale-strutturale prevede non solo |’armonioso, proporzionato 
insieme delle parti raccolte in un’unita unica e indivisibile, ma anche e soprattutto 
un’estrema funzionalizzazione degli elementi narrativi che la compongono, a nessuno dei 
quali, proprio come le parti del corpo umano, si potrebbe rinunciare senza compromettere 
il corretto funzionamento e |’integrita dell’ insieme” (65). 

Sarebbe stata probabilmente desiderabile una maggiore attenzione filologica nelle 
citazioni ricavate da edizioni cinquecentine, se non altro nel segnalare gli errori (di 
stampa?) di cui appaiono costellate. Per esempio, molto oscuro appare il “persier” di 
Ercole Il, 7.6 (119), e probabilmente erronea é la lezione “Aiutato a tornare ore pil grati” 
di // meschino XXV 6 (114); dietro il “nostro onore” (130) é sospettabile un “vostro”, 
cosi come é sospettabile un “fia” dietro i “sia” di Ercole II 119.8 (123) e Ercole VIII, 
110, 8 (124); “Or, perché ’1 canto mi par finito” (129) € ipometro; e cosi via. 
Ciononostante, il volumetto ha il merito di illuminare la coincidenza d’interessi fra la 
critica contemporanea e quella del Cinquecento sul problema della tecnica narrativa, e di 
informare sulle soluzioni adottate in opere letterarie non particolarmente frequentate dalla 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 497 


critica. Completano il saggio un indice dei nomi e un’aggiornata bibliografia. 
Maria Predelli, McGill University 


Quinto Marini, Frati barocchi. Studi su A. G. Brignole Sale, G. A. de Marini, A. 
Aprosio, F. F. Frugoni, P. Segneri, Modena: Mucchi Editore, 2000. Pp. 304. 

Il volume comprende sotto un unico titolo contributi di diversa provenienza, “unificati 
dal fondamentale intreccio storicistico di vita e opere degli autori studiati” (8-9). Cinque 
dei sei saggi raccolti nel recente libro di Quinto Marini e l’appendice, dedicata al 
fenomeno del best-seller secentesco, sono gia stati pubblicati altrove. Del tutto nuovo é, 
invece, il saggio sul Calloandro di Giovanni Ambrosio Marini. 

Nel tracciare il profilo di Anton Giulio Brignole Sale (1605-1662), nel primo 
contributo del volume (Anton Giulio Brignole Sale, un protagonista di “instabilita” 19- 
62), Quinto Marini comincia con la ricostruzione biografica di un letterato privilegiato 
dalla propria posizione sociale. Dopo Le instabilita dell’ingegno, dialogo che, da una 
cornice decameroniana, evolve verso “un intrattenimento barocchissimo ” (23), ne La 
colonna per l’anime del Purgatorio, “i piaceri dell’ingegno barocco” venivano “spostati 
in campo sacro, a stimolare il terrore e le lacrime dei lettori” (33). L’intera vicenda del 
Brignole Sale, fino a quando, lasciata la vita laica, entrd nei Missionari Urbani (1649), 
puo essere interpretata come un progressivo spostamento “verso il territorio religioso e 
impegnato” (53). Dopo il genere romanzesco, praticato con la Storia spagnuola (1640- 
42), componeva il Satirico (stampato nel 1648), in cui alcune figure tipiche del suo 
tempo venivano prese di mira e messe alla berlina. La vita di Sant’Alessio descritta e 
arricchita con divoti episodi, ultimo romanzo religioso del Brignole Sale, era il piu 
compiuto tentativo di cercare per se stesso un modello che fungesse anche da formula 
autorappresentativa. 

Il secondo saggio del libro é dedicato allo studio secondo una prospettiva 
biografica e letteraria — del Brignole Sale “seconda maniera”, ovvero successivo al suo 
ingresso nella Compagnia di Gest (Anton Giulio Brignole Sale gesuita e l’oratoria sacra 
63-112). Se si escludono due brevi panegirici sacri, presi i voti, il Brignole Sale sospese 
pressoché completamente la propria attivita letteraria. Le sue prediche — narrava il suo 
biografo Giovanni Maria Visconte — erano annotate “in pezzetti, o in avanzi”, talvolta 
“sopra le lettere che aveva ricevute, non solo a tergo [...], ma anco scrivendo le sue tra 
una riga, e !’altra” (65). Questa estrema sobrieta del gesuita Anton Giulio Brignole Sale e 
la difficolta di raccordare la sua figura di religioso con l’uomo di mondo, il politico 
impegnato nelle corti, che Brignole Sale era stato durante la sua vita laica, ha certamente 
inibito parte della critica, la cui attenzione verso il secondo Brignole Sale é stata 
notevolmente inferiore. Quinto Marini ricorda e commenta il panegirico del beato 
Gaetano di Thiene, fondatore dei Teatini, celebrato dal Brignole Sale sotto l’insegna — 
quasi motto araldico — dell’“acquistar gloria al suo Signore col perdersi” (78). Si 
sofferma, quindi, sul panegirico del beato Andrea Avellino, “nelle vesti di premuroso 
maestro dei novizi o di predicatore”. Genova non aveva avuto maestri dell’oratoria sacra 
e il Brignole Sale doveva costruire da sé la propria tradizione, attingendo agli esempi del 
Mascardi (a Genova sulla fine del 1621), alla teorie di Matteo Peregrini, all’ oratoria sacra 
del Bartoli e, tra gli altri, di Fabio Ambrogio Spinola, autore di prediche quaresimali e di 
cinquecento meditazioni “ciascuna proponente una verita o un soggetto, ordinate mese 
per mese ed internamente distinte in vari momenti di riflessione spirituale” (110). 

La ricostruzione del profilo biografico di Giovanni Ambrosio Marini é alquanto 





498  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


difficile per scarsita di documenti. Quinto Marini se ne occupa nel terzo saggio del 
volume (Giovanni Ambrosio de Marini e gli “inviluppati laberinti” del Calloandro fedele 
113-51). Tra le caratteristiche comuni evidenziate nei profili biografici contemporanei del 
Soprani e dell’abate Giustiniani, spicca in particolare la composizione del Calloandro, 
“opera che, anche per la sua complicata vicenda di mascheratura e smascheratura, 
anagrammi e finti nomi, caratterizza il personaggio” (116). La psicologia, il profilo 
letterario e umano di Giovanni Ambrosio, “nato fuori dalla famiglia ma poi legittimato e 
ascritto alla nobilta, e tuttavia, anche come intellettuale, scrittore tardivo” (120), comincia 
a delinearsi nelle contraddizioni che comprendono, da un lato, il tipico atteggiamento del 
letterato alla moda, dall’altro il religioso irreprensibile che condanna i libri faceti, anche i 
suoi stessi, invitando alla sola meditazione dei testi religiosi. Ma l’ambiguita — rileva 
Quinto Marini — é cifra barocca e |’autore del Calloandro sapeva interpretarla 
perfettamente, sia rilevando, nei suoi libri devoti (ne // caso non a caso, del 1650) la 
continua vicenda delle cose umane, sia condannando le scritture romanzesche come 
inutili. Del Calloandro Marini ricapitola e commenta le vicende, soffermandosi sulle 
principali tematiche e sugli snodi della narrazione. I! Ca//oandro non affronta alcuna 
specifica problematica politica, per quanto sia concepito per essere fruito all’interno della 
“societa nobiliare e aristocratica di pieno 600” (146). La sua ricetta, “labirintica” ed 
esclusivamente narrativa, bene illustrata dal saggista, sta a fondamento della lunga durata 
del suo successo. 

Il quarto saggio del libro, derivato da una relazione pronunciata durante un 
convegno internazionale di studi sugli agostiniani a Genova (Genova, 9-11 dicembre 
1993), tratta di Angelico Aprosio da Ventimiglia, “tromba per far conoscer molti” (153- 
79). Oltreché dalla vocazione religiosa, che si manifestd in lui fin dalla giovane eta, la 
vita dell’Aprosio fu segnata dalla vorace passione per i libri. Fu la costituzione della sua 
biblioteca, esistente ancora oggi, la sua maggiore opera, tanto che, “quando volle — nella 
sua vecchiaia, dopo una stagione di peregrinazioni e battaglie — scrivere la summa del 
proprio lavoro di intellettuale, letterato e bibliofilo, non trovd di meglio che intitolare 
quest’ultima opera La Biblioteca Aprosiana” (154). Nella Biblioteca, rassegna biografica 
in ordine alfabetico, Aprosio lasciéd anche una propria, ampia e arruffata, autobiografia, 
documento insostituibile “per identificare i suoi rapporti con letterati e dotti del tempo, 1 
suoi peculiari interessi e la storia del suo impegno nel mondo editoriale e librario 
secentesco, la sua facies intellettuale” (156). Aprosio era convinto che i componimenti 
prendessero vita dalle “opposizioni” ed in queste effettivamente si gettd, difendendo il 
Marino e il suo Adone contro le accuse dello Stigliani. Aprosio risiedette a Venezia tra il 
1641 e il 1647: furono questi “gli anni pil intensi del suo lavoro di bibliofilo, ricercatore, 
selezionatore, promotore editoriale e, senza dubbio, anche di commerciante di libri” 
(166). Numerosi i rapporti intrattenuti col Sarzina, Pavoni, Combi, Herz, Ginammi e 
Guerigli. Rammentato nei passaggi principali, e anche nelle evidenti cadute di tono, 
episodio della disputa con la monaca benedettina Arcangela Tarabotti fu causa 
dell’isolamento dell’Aprosio. Negli ultimi venticinque anni, passati a Ventimiglia, 
l’Aprosio si prese soprattutto cura della sua biblioteca e strinse “rapporti con altri grandi 
bibliofili ed eruditi del tempo [...] con letterati, studiosi, dotti e persino scienziati” (178). 
In questo periodo tornd a dedicarsi alla composizione di nuove opere e a concludere 
quelle rimaste in sospeso: si confermava disposto a rinunciare all’originalita, alla 
fantasia, all’inventivita, per “essere solo e soltanto un raccoglitore e un divulgatore del 
sapere libresco” (179). 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 499 


Il seguente contributo, saggio bibliografico e guida alla lettura, é dedicato a 
Francesco Fulvio Frugoni (Francesco Fulvio Frugoni, “a guisa di fiaccola” 181-217). 
Come gia per I|’autore del Calloandro, anche per il Frugoni non si dispone che di scarni, 
incerti dati biografici. La stima che fin da giovane gli riservarono il Brignole Sale e il 
Mascardi, gli rese facile accedere all’Accademia degli Addormentati e gli consenti di 
avvicinarsi a una delle pit potenti famiglie patrizie genovesi, gli Spinola. Accanto alle 
tappe di una complessa vicenda biografica, a Quinto Marini preme rilevare |’“instabilita 
esistenziale” di Frugoni, la sua ricerca di una posizione all’interno del mondo letterario. II 
saggio segue F. F. Frugoni alla fastosa corte di Carlo Emanuele II di Savoia, dove 
conobbe il Tesauro, subendone |’influenza. Quinto Marini si avventura infine sul terreno 
dilatato del Cane di Diogene, “grandiosa summa dell’universale sapere barocco”, sorretta 
dall’ambizione di “assorbire tutti i libri e tutti i generi in un solo libro” (210). Sul 
Tribunal della Critica e \e sue sessioni, oltre “quattrocentocinquanta pagine sconvolgenti 
per l’enciclopedismo e la minuzia delle questioni, con curiosita e aneddoti, opere note o 
no, trattate e riprodotte per brani anche consistenti” (215), Marini indugia nella seconda 
parte del suo saggio, anche perché, a suo avviso, raccontare il Cane di Diogene, “nel suo 
convulso insieme, pur affrettatamente e con sforbiciature impietose” (216), é il solo modo 
— il solo che |’autore abbia previsto — per capirlo. 

L’ultimo saggio del libro, Le biografie del «venerabile servo di Dio» Paolo Segneri 
(219-64), da una relazione pronunciata durante il Convegno Internazionale di Studi 
tenutosi a Nettuno (1994-95) per celebrare il 300° anniversario della morte di Paolo 
Segneri e gia pubblicato nei relativi atti, ¢ una riflessione sull’immagine e sul mito del 
celebre predicatore secentesco. Quinto Marini rilegge e confronta le biografie del Segneri 
per “fare la storia di un’immagine nei secoli” (219). La biografia fondamentale per la 
ricostruzione della figura del Segneri fu scritta dal suo confratello Giuseppe Massei nel 
1698. Nel Settecento due biografie latine del Segneri attinsero allo scritto del Massei: la 
prima, dovuta alla penna di G. M. Mazzolari, aggiungeva, rispetto allo scritto del Massei, 
una consapevole considerazione delle opere letterarie del Segneri e ne apprezzava lo stile 
limpido, armonico e puntuto. La seconda, di Angelo Fabroni, usava il Massei con grande 
parsimonia. Segneri era soprattutto ammirato come scrittore, capace di evitare i 
trabocchetti del depravato stile barocco per ricondurre la sacra oratoria “a quelle virtu sue 
proprie che erano state dimenticate” (247). All’agiografia incurante dei meriti letterari, si 
sostituiva dunque una visione opposta, in cui a esser messe in luce erano soprattutto le 
doti letterarie del Segneri, le virti dello stile e dei concetti e il suo impegno nelle 
battaglie teologiche (pressoché dimenticate da Massei e Mazzolari). Marini riporta infine 
le posizioni dei lettori e dei critici ottocenteschi e novecenteschi. Una biografia 
documentata di Segneri, auspicata anche da Mario Scotti, permetterebbe, secondo Marini, 
il recupero di una personalita di spicco, consegnata alla storia da biografi sempre troppo 
appassionati. 

Il volume si chiude con un’appendice su Romanzieri liguri e imprese editoriali nel 
Seicento (con un documento d'archivio sulla censura della Vergine Parigina di 
Francesco Fulvio Frugoni 265-91), argomento che Quinto Marini ha trattato anche, in 
misura pil ampia, per un recente capitolo della Storia della letteratura italiana, 
pubblicata presso |’editore Salerno. La prima affermazione, fondamentale, del saggio é la 
difesa della linea romanzesca ligure e della sua peculiare identita rispetto alla linea 
veneta. Un’indagine di consistenza che guardi al numero delle edizioni dei romanzieri 
liguri durante l’intero Seicento permette di affermare, senza dubbio, il “primato del 


500 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


romanzo ligure barocco nel mercato librario italiano” (266), ma anche |’atteggiamento 
poco ricettivo degli editori genovesi. 
Stefano Termanini, Genova 


Jack D’Amico. Shakespeare and Italy: The City and the Stage. Gainesville: UP of 
Florida, 2001. 

In this volume, the author engages the reader in a scholarly discussion of the individual 
settings in Shakespearean dramas set in Italy, whether in real cities such as Verona, 
Venice, Milan, and Messina in the case of Romeo and Juliet, Othello, Two Gentlemen of 
Verona, and Much Ado About Nothing, respectively, or the courtly, mythical world of 
Sicilia, the setting of The Winter's Tale. This he does in order to suggest the relationship 
between the individual plays and their contemporary audiences. The fundamental thesis 
of the volume is that Italian society, as it is represented in Shakespeare’s plays, is a 
reconfiguration of the urban world of contemporary London. D’Amico further extends 
this principle of correspondences by drawing a parallel between the major city-states of 
northern Italy and the theaters in and around Elizabethan London, as both are enclosed 
within walls but open to the air, a meeting place for all social strata. Since the book 
focuses on the multiple locations within the Italian cities in question, be it a piazza, a city 
street, an interior space, a garden, etc, the discussion of the individual plays is fragmented 
according to the presence or absence in them of the topographic features that are, in turn, 
the focus of the discussion. However, my comment is not to be seen as detracting from 
the book’s worth as the index provides references to individual characters, plays, and 
their Italian settings for readers wishing to extrapolate information on them. 

Although in the brief Preface the volume’s intended readership is broadly identified 
as “the informed, imaginative reader and spectator [...] the scholar, the student, the 
theater- or moviegoer, and the general reader who is entertained and enlightened by 
Shakespeare’s plays” (X1-X11), given the dual emphasis throughout on literary analysis 
and performance, moviegoers are likely to benefit less directly from D’Amico’s work 
than readers and spectators are, as only passing reference is made to filmed versions of 
the plays. Since, at times, the author adopts a comparative approach, contrasting 
Shakespeare’s theater with the comic theater of Italy during the sixteenth century, the 
volume will also be of interest to students of comparative literature. 

An obvious question that would present itself at an early juncture to the general 
reader is how Shakespeare acquired his knowledge of Italy. In Chapter 1 (“Some 
Versions of Italy”), D’Amico implies that this knowledge was not so much first-hand as 
derived from the Italian literature available to him both in translation and in Italian 
editions. In Elizabethan England, the great interest in any new development in Italian 
letters is evidenced by the availability in London of such works as Guarini’s // pastor fido 
and Tasso’s Aminta shortly after the appearance of the Italian princeps editions. D’ Amico 
draws attention to English curiosity about “Italian wickedness” (17), which resulted in 
particular interest in the works of controversial authors, such as Machiavelli and Aretino. 
Indeed, on numerous occasions D’Amico refers to the works of these two authors (in 
particular to Machiavelli’s comedy La mandragola) for their representation of Italian 
society in the early decades of the sixteenth century. To this end he makes repeated 
references also to the treatises of Leon Battista Alberti (On the Art of Building in Ten 
Books) and Baldassare Castiglione (The Book of the Courtier), classical Italian manuals 
dealing, respectively, with urban geography and courtly behavior. Chapter | contains as 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 501 


well a useful review of critical literature dealing with the representation of Italy on 
Shakespeare’s stage. It is an early indication of the painstaking scholarship and 
scrupulous documentation that are in evidence throughout the entire study. 

D’Amico hypothesizes that there were many open spaces within sixteenth-century 
London which could have provided Shakespeare with the model for the piazza, the 
characteristic urban space of his Italian city-states and the focus of the volume’s second 
chapter. The author characteristically extends his discussion by considering the piazza in 
the context of Renaissance architecture and as the preferred setting of the Italian 
commedia erudita. In accordance with his theory of correspondences, D’Amico first 
identifies the theater itself as an analogue to the piazza (23); then, later in the chapter he 
describes it as “the quintessential feature of Shakespeare’s city-state. With its potential 
for encounter and exchange, confusion and discovery, it is a microcosm of the 
Renaissance city.” (55) Amongst the plays discussed in relation to Shakespeare’s use of 
the piazza as setting are The Taming of the Shrew, The Merchant of Venice, and Romeo 
and Juliet. Typically in this latter play, Shakespeare does not identify by name Verona’s 
Piazza Bra; instead he uses the city’s central square as a generic open place conducive to 
the fluidity and freedom of movement essential to his theater. 

As he had done at the beginning of the previous chapter, D’Amico begins chapter 3 
(“City Streets”) with a brief reference to topographic features of Shakespeare’s London. 
For students or scholars of comparative literature, this chapter in particular provides a 
valuable basis for comparison between Shakespeare’s dramas and the Italian commedia 
erudita, with its fixed setting (usually a piazza or a city street) and limited time frame 
(the action typically unfolds in less than twenty-four hours). In Shakespeare’s plays 
Italian city streets are free from the threat of rape and other forms of violence liable to 
occur in Italian comedy, and are only dangerous to those who have caused offense to the 
state. Streets serve as a transitional space between the world of the audience and the 
imagined setting of the play (66), within which they have a practical function, leading 
either to a port or the city gates, and whatever lies beyond. Thus they facilitate social and 
psychological transition by allowing young men of good family to journey between city- 
states in search of wives, adventure, or education. The natural environment as well of 
servants, disguised women, clowns, and fools, streets may serve to draw the spectators 
into the imagined setting. It is clear, however, that Shakespeare did not intend a realistic 
representation of his Italian settings if, in The Tempest, reference can be made to Milan’s 
‘seaport.’ D’Amico uses primarily The Taming of the Shrew, Romeo and Juliet, Much 
Ado About Nothing, and Othello to illustrate the significance of the street as setting. 

Basing himself on the analogy between a city and both ducal palaces and private 
dwellings that Castiglione, Alberti, and Palladio saw, D’Amico begins chapter 4 
(“Interior Spaces”) by asking whether Shakespeare’s representations of private dwellings 
can be considered microcosms of his Italian cities. If this is indeed so, then the 
“governor” of the domestic state is the father, either a benevolent prince or a tyrant 
according to whether the play in question is a comedy or a tragedy. D’Amico then 
proceeds to verify this hypothesis by analyzing a number of plays, including Othello, 
Romeo and Juliet, The Taming of the Shrew, and Twelfth Night. 

D’Amico has sifted through Shakespeare’s Italian plays with an attentive eye for 
references to place. Yet he does not by any means limit his search to concrete, geographic 
loci, but extends his investigation to interior, psychological spaces as well, as in the case 
of Othello where he sees a parallel between Brabantio’s opening to Othello a private 


502 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


space within his own house, and Othello’s subsequent fear that Desdemona may herself 
open “a corner in the thing I love / For others’ uses” (Othello 3.3. 269-70). This move 
from the literal to the psychological is a very interesting — and fruitful — perspective 
from which to examine this corpus of dramas. And a propos of Romeo and Juliet, 
D’Amico suggests (82) that it is language that “decorates” interiors: in the case of Juliet, 
where movement is from her bedroom to the church and then back to her wedding 
chamber, it is the language spoken within the same room that changes it. A comparative 
approach is again adopted when D’Amico here compares Shakespeare’s use of interior, 
private spaces with that made by Italian playwrights of the sixteenth century. 

In chapter 5 (“The Court”), the author first refers to The Winter’s Tale to illustrate 
Shakespeare’s use of a court setting, prefacing his discussion by stating that it is not 
known “what props Shakespeare may have used to create the sense of interiors richly 
decorated with grotesques in the Italian style [...]” (95). The playwright typically fuses 
the private and the public in the courtly setting: it is at once the ruler’s home but also the 
seat of administration and justice (97-98). Where Othello is illustrative of a court of law, 
The Merchant of Venice offers examples of both a courtly villa at Belmont, presided over 
by Portia, and a court-chamber in Venice, where Shylock presses his case against 
Antonio. In The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Shakespeare creates “a loosely defined court 
that attracts young men in search of experience” (98). In the plays discussed in this 
chapter there may be an element of satire as Shakespeare exposes some of the pretensions 
to be found at court. As elsewhere in his comedies, young female characters, however, 
share “the corrective perspective of the world outside the court [...]” (102). Here, too, 
D’Amico makes an analogy between the court of law and the theater: it is a space within 
the urban community where the unwritten laws of society shape the written charters. 

Like the theater, gardens (chapter 6) can be seen as a microcosm of the city (121). 
They may be places of passage, the setting for revelry, games, music, poetry, and 
dialogue; they may mediate between the private and the public world and have a 
metatheatrical quality that can be used to precipitate a transformation. Shakespeare 
frequently identifies the garden with pleasure, with the “lessons of desire” (121). The 
Taming of the Shrew, The Two Gentlemen of Verona, Romeo and Juliet, Much Ado About 
Nothing, and Twelfth Night are the principal plays on which D’Amico bases his 
discussion in this chapter. 

Where Castiglione’s The Book of the Courtier had been an indispensable point of 
reference in the preceding chapter, in chapter 7 (“The Temple”) this function is taken 
over by Machiavelli’s comedy La mandragola. More akin to the English parish than to 
the Roman basilica, the church has diminished authority in Shakespeare’s Italian city- 
states wherein it is primarily a secular expedient: “Though the church is not a dominating 
presence in Shakespeare’s representation of the Italian urban scene, it is at hand, ready 
when the city’s players are” (145). More a place of trial or counsel than of religious 
ritual, the church may contribute in a significant (but not dominant) way to the harmony 
within the city walls (151). Although Friar Lawrence in Romeo and Juliet is motivated 
rather more by political or personal considerations than by spiritual fervor, Shakespeare 
never suggests that the priest uses his influence for personal advantage. Like Friar 
Lawrence, Friar Francis (in Much Ado About Nothing) seeks to persuade by resorting to a 
combination of book learning and worldly knowledge (149-50). D’Amico hypothesizes 
(142) that it could be Venice’s independence from papal Rome that accounts for the civil 
marriage ceremonies in such plays as The Merchant of Venice and Othello. The church, 





Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 503 


however, fares slightly better in Much Ado About Nothing where it shares authority with 
Leonato’s house (and where it will be the setting for the wedding of Claudio and Hero). 

In chapter 8 (“City Walls”), Shakespeare’s London is again seen as mirroring his 
Italian city-states, with its walls beyond which lies open space, seen as an area of passage 
or transition rather than of prolonged suffering. Romeo and Juliet is the principal focus of 
this chapter, with its city walls close to both Verona’s churchyard and the sycamore 
grove where Romeo wandered when besotted with Rosaline. 

In the volume’s final chapter (“The Journey to Italy”), D’Amico again argues that 
Shakespeare builds the representation of Italian city-states from the essential elements of 
his stage and his own city. He discusses how Italy was perceived by Shakespeare’s 
contemporaries: inviting to some, dangerous to others. Cymbeline moves from England to 
the Italian court; in All’s Well That Ends Well, the pattern of movement is to a society 
that may have appeared “dangerously seductive” (165) when viewed from the outside. 
This play also shows some awareness on Shakespeare’s part of European politics, 
including the long-standing political alliance between France and Florence. Machiavelli’s 
political writings — The Discourses, The Prince, and The Florentine Histories — are 
cited in this chapter for contemporary Italian history as Shakespeare would have known 
it. Although the following errors were noted throughout the volume, they should in no 
way be seen as detracting from its scholarly worth: Lasino doro for L’asino d’oro (17); 
Milan is described as being “in the east” (of Italy), Verona and Venice “in the west” (25); 
San Gemignano for San Gimignano (81); L’Allessandro of Allesandro Piccolomini for 
L’Alessandro of Alessandro Piccolomini (91); J Straccioni for Gli Straccioni (93); 
villegiatura for villeggiatura (131); and Sienna for Siena (166). 

The volume concludes with a very comprehensive bibliography (177-91). 

Nicole Prunster, La Trobe University 


Rinaldina Russell, ed. Sister Maria Celeste’s Letters to Her Father, Galileo. San Jose: 
Writers Club, 2000. 

If we can believe Galileo’s own testimony, Virginia Galilei (1600-34), his elder 
illegitimate daughter, known as Suor Maria Celeste, “was a woman of exquisite mind, 
singular goodness, and most tenderly attached to me” (Letter to Elia Diodati, July 1634, 
Dava Sobel. Galileo’s Daughter. New York: Penguin, 2000, 347). Whether Bertolt 
Brecht (1898-1956) was aware of this laudatory assessment is certainly not reflected in 
any of the versions of his play, Life of Galileo (the first version, 1938-43; the American 
version, 1944-47; the Berlin version 1953-56). Brecht’s Virginia is not a cloistered nun as 
history records; in fact, in the play she seeks unsuccessfully a marriage with the fictitious 
Ludovico Marsili and is portrayed as frivolous, materialistic, pleasure-seeking, disloyal, 
and an intellectual light-weight. Her father treats her with disdain and annoyed tolerance. 
What is most disturbing about Brecht’s rewriting of Suor Maria Celeste is his defamatory 
depiction of her as a spy for the Inquisition against her beleaguered genius father. In 
scene 3, when Virginia meekly asks to peer at the skies through her father’s lens, Galileo 
responds, “What for? It’s not a toy” (Life of Galileo. New York: Arcade Publishing, 
1980, 31). In scene 9 she submissively admits to the intimidating Cardinal Inquisitor’s 
queries about her father’s cosmic investigations and his Copernican beliefs, “I really 
understand practically nothing about such things” (62). In scene 14 she is reduced to 
acting as her blind father’s secretary, recording for the Inquisition his responses to 
questions, while unaware of the ironic import of much of what Galileo says. 


504 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Brecht’s Virginia has nothing in common with the historical Suor Maria Celeste, the 
loving, devoted, revering, and assuredly loyal daughter of Galileo. Some may even 
question, perhaps rightly, whether Brecht’s portrayal of Galileo has anything in common 
with the real scientific pioneer, who, although he was a university dropout (1581), 
discovered the moons of Jupiter (1610), conducted numerous astronomical and 
mechanical investigations, and composed one of the most controversial, influential, and 
literally earth-shattering scientific treatises of all time, Dialogo dove si discorre sopra i 
due massimi sistemi del mondo, tolemaico e copernicano (1624-30; published 1632). 
Galileo was undeniably a genius, and as the stars would have it, was born (February 15, 
1564) in the same year as Shakespeare (April 23); that year also saw the death of 
Michelangelo (February 18). The tradition of scientific genius would coincidentally also 
mark the year of Galileo’s death (January 8, 1642) with the birth of another scientific 
genius, Isaac Newton (December 25). Galileo would eventually receive in absentia an 
honorary university degree from Pisa (1892), and his dangerous beliefs would even 
receive public endorsement by Pope John Paul II (1992), 359 years after his infamous 
trial (1633). 

The extensive details surrounding this thumbnail sketch of the highpoints of 
Galileo’s story would take us far from the quaint domesticity of the Convent of San 
Matteo in Arcetri, the almost lifetime abode of Suor Maria Celeste. Again, by virtue of 
Galileo’s own handwritten testimony, a birth horoscope uncovered among his documents 
records that “her reason will be ruled by emotions [...] her character will be upright and 
serious [...],’ she will be “capable of enduring hardship and troubles [...],” will show 
“personal authority and loftiness of character [...] charm and reverence for God [...] 
gentle conduct toward others and [...] tranquility [...] creative intelligence [...] wisdom, 
prudence [...] and memory” (Le opere di Galileo Galilei, edizione nazionale, ed. Antonio 
Favaro, 20 vols. Firenze: 1890-1909, reprinted 1929-39, 1964-66, vol. 19, 218, trans. 
Michael Maas and Albert Van Helden; +ttp://es.rice.edu/ES/humsoc/Galileo). Although 
Virginia’s birth certificate boldly announces that she was “born of fornication” (Galileo 
also had two other illegitimate children), Galileo’s prognosticative reading of his 
daughter’s character is as accurate as his eventual detection of Jupiter’s moons or of the 
motions of the earth. 

Yet again in this instance, the genius father speaks for the daughter in his dominant 
voice. However, in her 124 extant letters to her father, Celeste also speaks, but in a 
different key and range, in a recessive subdominant signature. While not as powerful or 
authoritative as her father, she conveys the authenticity of a real woman with a real story 
and a separate identity. Within the past three years, two translated versions of Celeste’s 
letters have appeared, one the subject of this review, and a second that places the letters 
within the context of a larger story about Galileo. Russell’s admirable, scholarly, 
accessible, and indeed courageous edition unfortunately emerged around the same time as 
the publication of Dava Sobel’s engaging, commercially successful Galileo’s Daughter 
(Walker, 1999; Penguin, 2000). Russell persisted in seeking a publisher for her work 
despite the fact that the forthcoming appearance of Sobel’s book caused the first 
publisher to reject Russell’s manuscript (261). As a storyteller, Sobel uses the letters as a 
narrative strategy to advance Galileo’s biography. Sobel’s is a cultural history of his 
pivotal role in an historic, intellectual, and religious battle pitting the autonomy of 
science against the authority of the Church. The letters are the needle by which Sobel 
weaves together the threads of family, politics, religion, the plague, and the Copernican 





Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 505 


revolution, and their relative impact on the Galilei duo. The letters succeed in humanizing 
Galileo much more authentically than Brecht’s fictive, artificial dramaturgy. Sobel 
employs Celeste’s letters as a narratological lens by which to view the consummate 
stargazer. The unexpected, touching, and poetically just conclusion to this story, detailed 
in the final pages of her book, merely reinforces Galileo’s humanity and Celeste’s filial 
devotion. 

Russell’s edition is different from Sobel’s. Although the translations of the letters in 
both works are accurate and readable, Sobel’s are more formal and distant, while 
Russell’s capture the respectful, yet intimate tone that would characterize a close Italian 
father-daughter relationship that would have been common at that time. Russell’s 
versions admirably fulfill her intention “to render the tone, the level of familiarity and 
literacy of the original text [...] in order to achieve a comparable English style” (xxxi). 
She bases her translation on the authoritative Favaro edition (cited above), comparing it 
with the original manuscripts in the Florence library, the Francesco Saverio and Maria 
Rossi edition (1984), and the 1992 Genova edition. Her thorough, thoughtfully framed 
translations clearly present Celeste as an eloquent, well educated, rhetorically savvy, and 
intelligent practitioner of the art of personal letter writing. 

Russell allows Celeste’s voice to speak in its own terms, albeit muted at times, 
without the booming voiceover of the historic events of Galileo’s tumultuous life. In the 
opening sections of Russell’s modest, well written, and useful introductory essay, she 
sketches the Galilei family background, surveys the Italian Renaissance letter writing 
tradition among women, and describes the general life of the Sisters of Saint Clare at the 
Convent of San Matteo in Arcetri, and specifically Celeste’s activities as an apothecary, 
confectioner, choir mistress, and financial administrator of the convent. In another section 
she briefly overviews the controversies surrounding Galileo’s astronomical discoveries 
and his writings on nature and the scriptures. In perhaps the most interesting part she 
analyzes the contents of the letters (1623-31), further elaborating how they fit within the 
context of Celeste’s convent life. In the final section, she describes her sources. Russell’s 
introduction has the effect of illuminating complicated issues, when, for example, she 
succinctly points out that Galileo’s scientific position affirmed not only the independence 
of science from religion, but also the independence of science as a research endeavor 
from the politics and vanity of the scientific establishment (xxxi). But Russell’s analysis 
focuses primarily on Celeste, particularly her leadership role in the convent, her 
competent management of convent and family problems, her care and solicitude for the 
other sisters, her family, and especially her beloved “lord and father.” 

Russell’s translations open up the prospect that with increased scholarly attention 
more work will be done to study her stylistic and rhetorical strategies. More important is 
the needed analysis of the themes on which she focuses. For example, in a number of 
letters she reveals feelings of depression, or what some might call the de contemptu 
mundi theme, as in the letters of 10 May 1623, 18 October 1630, and 2 July 1633. Often 
this theme is related to disturbing news about her father’s escalating troubles with the 
Papacy, to the persistent lack of money for herself and the convent, to the sickness of the 
sisters in the convent, to her frequent migraine headaches, the horrors of the encroaching 
plague, or her disquieting frustration at the lack of privacy and solitude. Several letters 
center on the “request theme,” as on 10 August 1623 when she asks to see the presumed 
letter Galileo had written to the newly elected Pope Urban; on 21 November 1623 when 
she asks for a copy of the recently published // saggiatore; on 10 December 1623 when 


506 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


she ardently petitions for a new convent confessor; on 8 July 1629 and 22 November 
1629 when she humbly but passionately seeks a room of her own; and on 1 November 
1630 when she matter-of-factly requests a telescope. The “convent confessor” letter and 
the “room of her own” letter are particularly significant examples of Celeste’s letter- 
writing approach, tone, and style. They reveal a superb command of language and logic, 
and a remarkable understanding of human psychology and interpersonal relationships for 
a woman who had spent practically all of her life in a cloistered environment. Another 
important theme is her recurring expressions of love for her father, as on 19 December 
1625 when she sends him a rose and explains the symbolic meaning of its thorns and its 
color; on 26 February 1633 when she reveals that there is a “love contest” between Sister 
Luisa and Galileo as to which loves Celeste more; and on 7 May 1633 when she reiterates 
in especially moving language her profound and unparalleled filial love. 

The letters of Suor Maria Celeste present a clear picture of a self-sacrificing woman, 
who, although she may not have had a true religious calling and lived only a brief 33 
years, succeeded in bequeathing a memorable human legacy of kindness, generosity, 
loyalty, love, and responsibility, causing the great Galileo himself to confess in another 
letter to Elia Diodati, that her untimely death shattered his world, leaving him in the “the 
greatest misery” (Xxx). 

Silvia Ruffo Fiore, University of South Florida 


Corrado Viola, ed. Edizione Nazionale del Carteggio di L. A. Muratori. Vol. 28, 
Carteggi con Mansi ... Marmi. Firenze: Olschki, 1999. Pp. 585. 

Il Centro di Studi Muratoriani di Modena continua a pubblicare la preziosa 
corrispondenza di Muratori, destinata a riempire ben quaranta volumi, alcuni dei quali 
sono intitolati a un solo corrispondente, come il 20 (Carteggio con Pietro E. Gherardi, a 
c. di Guido Pugliese, Firenze, Olschki, 1982) 0 il 32 (Carteggio con Giovan Gioseffo 
Orsi, ac. di Alfredo Cottignoli, Firenze: Olschki, 1984). Sarebbe superfluo spendere 
parole sulla importanza dell’impresa, che intende sostituire la vecchia edizione in 
quattordici volumi dell’Epistolario di L. A. Muratori, curato da Matteo Campori 
(Modena: Societa Tipografica Modenese, 1901-1922). Muratori é una di quelle grandi 
figure del Settecento europeo che si impongono all’attenzione di specialisti di varie 
discipline: dalla storia medievale alla critica letteraria e alla cosiddetta Aufkldrung 
cattolica. A prescindere dalle opere muratoriane maggiori, basti pensare ad alcuni scritti 
minori, ma ricchi di suggestioni, che sono stati riproposti all’attenzione degli studiosi in 
agili edizioni moderne, come Della forza della fantasia umana, a cura di Claudio 
Pogliano (Firenze: Giunti, 1995), 0 Della pubblica felicita, oggetto de’ buoni principi, a 
cura di Cesare Mozzarelli (Roma: Donzelli, 1996). E pertanto da augurarsi che le grandi 
biblioteche universitarie americane si assicurino una copia di questo carteggio, che getta 
luce sugli aspetti pid vari del Settecento e sulla riscoperta del Medioevo. Si tratta di uno 
strumento di lavoro di cui nessuno studioso della cultura occidentale pud permettersi il 
lusso di fare a meno. 

Il curatore del volume 28 é un profondo conoscitore della letteratura europea sei- 
settecentesca, come risulta anche da un suo recentissimo volume, uscito nella collana del 
Dipartimento di Romanistica della Universita degli Studi di Verona: Tradizioni letterarie 
a confronto, Italia e Francia nella polemica Orsi-Bouhours (Verona: Fiorini, 2001). Di 
qui l’acribia filologica, con cui Viola illustra il materiale, disposto, come in tutti i volumi 
miscellanei, secondo l’ordine alfabetico dei corrispondenti: dal lucchese Giovan 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 507 


Domenico Mansi (1727-1749) a Giuseppe Ermenegildo Marmi (1736-1737), pronipote o 
“nipote cugino” del fiorentino Anton Francesco Marmi. Molte lettere sono qui stampate 
per la prima volta. Nel caso di Mansi (pp. 7-26), quattro lettere a lui dirette da Muratori, 
che si conservano nella Biblioteca Statale e nell’Archivio di Stato di Lucca, erano gia 
note soprattutto attraverso |’Epistolario curato da Campori, mentre le dieci lettere di 
Mansi a Muratori, conservate presso la Biblioteca Estense di Modena, appaiono qui per la 
prima volta. Alcuni sono rappresentati da una sola missiva, come quella di Muratori ad 
Alessandro Marchetti, in data 30 ottobre 1704 (pp. 96-97), conservata presso la 
Biblioteca Universitaria di Pisa e gia nota attraverso |’ Epistolario, la quale purtroppo é 
piuttosto deludente, se si pensa allo scalpore suscitato dalla traduzione marchettiana del 
De rerum natura, con cui non ha nulla a che vedere. 

La corrispondenza piu ricca e pil interessante é quella con Anton Francesco Marmi 
(1704-1737), costituita da 363 lettere: 85 missive di Muratori a Marmi, conservate presso 
la Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale di Firenze, e gia uscite nell’ Epistolario; 278 di Marmi a 
Muratori, conservate presso la Biblioteca Estense di Modena, in larga misura inedite. 
Viola ne ricostruisce la storia editoriale, e ricorda giustamente che alcuni brani di esse 
apparvero in un articolo di Isidoro Del Lungo (1880) e in un libro di Sergio Bertelli 
(1960). Ma non escluderei che altri studiosi le abbiano citate, come del resto ho fatto 
anch’io, trattando del rapporto Montesquieu-Attias in una relazione letta al Convegno 
internazionale su Montesquieu, tenuto a Napoli nel 1984, sotto l’egida dell’Istituto 
Universitario Orientale e della Societa italiana di studi sul secolo XVIII (vedi il mio 
Montesquieu, il germanesimo e la cultura italiana dal Rinascimento all’Illuminismo, in 
Storia e ragione, ac. di A. Postigliola, Napoli: Liguori, 1987, p. 86). Forse valeva la pena 
accennare alla ipotesi che Attias fosse connesso con una loggia massonica di Livorno, cui 
facevano capo ebrei, protestanti e cattolici (vedi Carlo Francovich, Storia della 
massoneria in Italia, Dalle origini alla Rivoluzione francese, Firenze: La Nuova Italia, 
1974, pp. 72-73). 

Lo scambio epistolare fra Marmi e Muratori, iniziato sotto gli auspici di Apostolo 
Zeno, occupa buona parte del volume 28 (pp. 173-511). Marmi, persona assai vicina ad 
Antonio Magliabechi, é un epistolografo intelligente ed aperto, che fornisce preziose 
informazioni sulla vita culturale italiana, aduggiata dalla censura ecclesiastica. Sotto 
questo aspetto, |’opera in oggetto fornisce preziose testimonianze, che possono integrare 
quelle contenute in altri volumi del carteggio muratoriano, come il 42 (Carteggio con 
Fortunato Tamburini, a c. di Filippo Valenti, Firenze: Olschki, 1975), dimostrando 
quanto fosse diffusa nello stesso ambiente ecclesiastico la insofferenza per le strettoie 
imposte dalla Inquisizione alla cultura italiana. Gli sfoghi epistolari aiutano a capire che 
cosa intendesse dire Muratori, quando scriveva: “Pruovo io stesso, che mi restano nella 
penna molte osservazioni forse non inutili, le quali vorrebbon pure la licenza di scappare 
in pubblico; ma sono costrette a restarsene in casa” (Riflessioni sopra il buon gusto, In 
Colonia [ma Napoli: Renaud], 1715, II, p. 16). Lo stesso avrebbe potuto dire Vico, che 
gli esegeti cattolici hanno preteso di sbandierare come campione della loro causa (vedi il 
mio Vico e i cattolici del suo e del nostro tempo, in Il mondo di Vico/Vico nel mondo, in 
ricordo di Giorgio Tagliacozzo, ac. di Franco Ratto, Perugia: Guerra, 2000, pp. 19-27). 
Le opere della letteratura italiana del Sei-Settecento si debbono leggere alla luce di 
questo problema, che tarpava le ali a tutti i nostri autori, come é stato ampiamente 
dimostrato (vedi in particolare Ugo Rozzo, Italian Literature of the Index, in Church, 
Censorship and Culture in Early Modern Italy, a c. di Gigliola Fragnito, traduzione di 


508 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Adrian Belton, Cambridge, Cambridge UP, 2001, pp. 194-222). 
Gustavo Costa, Emeritus, University of California, Berkeley 


Viaggiatori inglesi tra sette e ottocento. Saggi di Daniele Niedda, Margaret Rose, 
Mirella Billi, Maurizio Ascari. A cura di Vincenzo De Caprio. (Effetto Roma — II 
viaggio. II serie, n. 2.) Roma: Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani, 1999. Pp. 90. 

The Journey Home. Eleven Italian-American Narratives and an Utterance of Joy. 
Transcr. and written by Ross Talarico. West Lafayette: Bordighera, 2002. Pp. 60. 
While the theme of travel literature, loosely defined, may be what suggested the grouping 
of these two modest books for review, the truth is that they have little in common. The 
former discusses certain travellers’ reports about Italy in the sette- and ottocento, while 
the latter deals rather subjectively with experiences of life in the USA, as recalled by a 
group of elderly Italian-Americans with family ties to Rochester, New York. 

Surprising as it may seem, the world still awaits a comprehensive bibliography of 
the published travel narratives and diaries concerning Italy produced from the sixteenth to 
the nineteenth centuries. The best we have for the Anglo-American segment of that 
literature so far is R. S. Pine-Coffin’s Bibliography of British and American Travel in 
Italy to 1860 (Firenze: Olschki, 1974). An interesting recent contribution covering similar 
manuscript material at Yale’s Beinecke Library would be John Marciari’s Grand Tour 
Diaries and Other Travel Manuscripts in the James Marshall and Marie-Louise Osborn 
Collection (New Haven: Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library, 1999). For their 
part, Italian scholars have not been slow to reflect on these writings from the Italian point 
of view. A substantial (247-page) monograph on the phenomenon is Cesare De Seta’s 
L'Italia del grand tour: da Montaigne a Goethe (Napoli: Electa, 1992). 

Viaggiatori inglesi, edited by Vincenzo De Caprio, furthers the discourse from Italy. 
It contains four essays which leave no doubt as to the centrality of the observer in such 
writings. Travelers’ tales from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, whatever else 
their virtues may be, seem to reveal more about the travelers themselves than they do 
about what they saw in Italy—or so the present authors imply by their efforts to 
historicize the writers. Perhaps the subjective nature of such writings helps to explain 
why, among professional Anglo-American catalogers, such books have usually been 
classed under the heading “Travelers—lItaly,” rather than the other way round, with Italy 
as the main subject. By contrast, modern travel guides to Italy, being more objective in 
tone and content, tend to be classed under “Italy—Description and Travel.” 

The first essay, by Daniele Niedda, “Joseph Addison e l’eredita di Roma 
repubblicana,” portrays Addison, the highly educated and well-versed co-producer of The 
Spectator, as conflicted between his own idealized expectations of Italy, based on his 
readings, and what he actually encountered when he did his Grand Tour in 1701-03. In 
his Remarks on Several Parts of Italy in the Years 1701, 1702, 1703 (London, 1705), 
Addison describes, in Niedda’s view, an “Italia caduta, incancrenita dalla corruzione 
morale e religiosa, depressa economicamente, e annichilita politicamente” (12). Being an 
Anglican of firm persuasion, Addison lays all the blame for this sorry state of affairs on 
the papacy. Horace Walpole, according to Niedda, faulted Addison’s Remarks for being 
too prejudiced by expectations, stating that “Mr. Addison travelled through the poets, and 
not through Italy [...] he saw places as they were, not as they are.” The suggestion is that 
Addison’s readings led him to seek the fulfillment of his preconceptions about Italy 
rather than to observe objectively what the peninsula had to offer. Niedda suggests that 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 509 


Addison’s views on the putative virtues of republican Rome crystallized in his play, 
Cato, A Tragedy, given with great success at Drury Lane Theatre on 14 April 1713. In 
turn, the play became influential in colonial America. So, too, did the Addinsonian 
precedent of using the traveler’s pen in the service of a particular political agenda. 
Niedda explains, “E estremamente significativo che Franklin si avvalga delle medesime 
pratiche discorsive della letteratura di viaggio, utilizzate dall’inglese Addison, contro gli 
stessi inglesi” (27). In sum, the author makes a good case that what goes around comes 
around in travel literature. 

The second essay, Margaret Rose’s “Lady Mary Wortley Montagu in Italia: viaggio, 
identita, e performance epistolare,” has to do with the protagonist’s long sojourn in Italy, 
from 1739 to 1761. Montagu, in distinction to those who engaged in the typical winter 
tours of Italy, put down roots and stayed for years. Her letters, collected and published in 
three volumes as The Complete Letters of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu (Oxford: 
Clarendon Press, 1965-67), imply that she underwent a kind of inner transformation 
while living there. Rose’s essay owes its performative focus to Cynthia Lowenthal’s Lady 
Mary Wortley Montagu and the Eighteenth-Century Familiar Letter (Athens: U of 
Georgia P, 1994). Lowenthal suggests that Montagu produced an “epistolary 
performance” with her letters, for they are unlike other, more objective accounts of Italy. 
They are more experimental and personal, being aimed at a narrow circle of friends back 
in England. They report on the full range of Italian society, not just the notables. In fact, 
Rose finds that Montagu’s frankness borders at times on “un moderno tabloid 
scandalistico” (38). 

Mirella Billi’s essay, “Il viaggio esotico-artistico di William Beckford,” deals with a 
wealthy young Englishman of a later generation, embarking on his Grand Tour in 1780. 
He seems to have used the occasion to escape family control and to indulge his romantic 
soul. Beckford’s book of 1781, Dreams, Working Thoughts, and Incidents, shows that he 
approached his travels as “una esperienza soggettiva,” Billi explains (53). Yet his 
exceptional education and contacts in Europe give the book a special interest. Mozart, for 
a while, was Beckford’s music teacher, and the talented painter Alexander Cozens his art 
mentor. Billi, characterizing Beckford’s early writing style as “sonnambulismo 
itinerante,” suggests that it was reflective of his own literary tastes, which tended toward 
“la letteratura fantastica.” He was also a gifted painter with words, in the “literary 
picturesque” tradition of the time. Billi regards him as “squisitamente pittorica” (63). 
Beckford’s description of the Roman Coliseo calls to the author’s mind an etching by 
Piranesi and a 1780 painting by John Robert Cozens, both reproduced in the article. 
Later, in 1834, an older Beckford produced the book J/taly: With Sketches of Spain and 
Portugal. It differs greatly from the earlier work, having lost its poetic, visionary qualities 
altogether. Billi speculates that Beckford’s novel, Vathek (London, 1786), may have 
claimed whatever poetic energy was left in this depleted traveler, leaving the 1834 travel 
guide hollow and uninspiring. 

The final essay, by Maurizio Ascari, is written with flourishes of gratuitous erudition 
that tend to hinder rather than further comprehension of the author’s points. For example, 
what the other writers called Jetteratura di viaggio, Ascari characterizes as /etteratura 
odeporica—a term which, while not unfamiliar to specialists in this area, is nevertheless 
missing in most Italian-English dictionaries. In “Gli svaghi superflui di un’ennuyée: i 
soggiorni romani di Anna Jameson,” the author introduces us to the young Anna Murphy, 
whose first impressions of Italy, penned during a Grand Tour in 1821, appeared 


510 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


anonymously as Diary of a Lady (1826). Later, under her married name, Jameson, the 
book reappeared as The Diary of an Ennuyée (1834). Rome occupies about a third of the 
diary, and, judging from Ascari’s remarks, more’s the pity. It starts with the anticlimax of 
her having to enter the city in a torrential rain. Then Anna comes to realize that she has 
spoiled her enthusiasm by reading too much of previous authors: “I had been, 
unfortunately, too well prepared, by previous reading, for all I see, to be astonished by 
anything except the Museum of the Vatican” (77). Not even the Coliseum by moonlight 
held any magic for Mrs. Jameson. But she did provide insightful observations about the 
activities in various Roman basilicas (“crowded to suffocation,” “all in darkness,” etc.). 
Ascari himself shows little patience with what he regards as the insensitivities of the 
“razionalissimi anglosassoni” (81) to Italian religious observances. The author further 
faults virtually all English-speaking visitors for their failure to appreciate, after 1870, 
such developments as the unification of Italy, lost as they were in their laments over the 
disappearance of older customs so vividly described in previous travelers’ accounts. 
Oscar Wilde epitomizes such an attitude in his poem, “Italia! Thou art fallen... “ (84). 
Jameson’s perspective was no different, and it appeared much earlier in the century. In 
fairness to Jameson, she does give useful accounts of a phenomenon which became 
fashionable especially in Rome and Florence at that time—trecitations by professional 
Improvwvisatori. She vividly describes a certain Sestini, who performed in Rome to great 
acclaim. So in the end, despite her own self-deprecating ennui, Jameson’s Diary will not 
bore an attentive reader. 

An altogether different world awaits those who peruse The Journey Home: Eleven 
Italian-American Narratives. It consists of a series of brief vignettes (some as short as a 
half-dozen paragraphs) about growing up Italian-American and making a home in or 
around Rochester, New York. If this is /etteratura di viaggio (a concept which hardly 
applies, despite the comings and goings mentioned), then the voyages come across as 
more psychological than real. The transcriber and author, Ross Talarico, seems to 
specialize as a professional writer in the recording of oral histories. In fact, he authored a 
larger anthology of this type eight years earlier, Hearts and Times: The Literature of 
Memory (Chicago: Kairos Press, 1992). Surprisingly, it appears to contain versions of 
some of the same short reminiscences by some of the same authors that are featured in 
The Journey Home, unacknowledged in the latter. It leads one to wonder what kind of 
double-dipping is at work here. Questions of origin and originality aside, the editing in 
the present booklet is uneven, with capricious italics liberally strewn about (especially in 
Mary Ann Sellitto’s “Grandpa”). There are also inexplicable ellipses in each 
reminiscence, like this . . . , perhaps intended to imply a pause in reading. Starting 
another paragraph, in most cases, would have worked better. 

Some of the vignettes are more evocative than narrative, like Tony Sciolino’s “The 
Journey: An Overview.” Louise Nicastro’s “Louise . . .” (sic, with an ellipsis) is a 
beautifully written mini-memoir of her having to take over, at age twenty, the role of 
mother to her siblings when her own mother died after delivering twins. It relates to the 
same author’s “After Mama’s Death” in Talarico’s earlier Hearts and Times, but this 
reviewer is at a loss to explain the whys and wherefores of such intertextuality. 

If one were to ask which of these two volumes might be most appropriate for a 
collection supporting Italian studies, my answer without reservation would be the former, 
Viaggiatori inglesi. 

Thomas F. Heck, Emeritus Professor, Ohio State University 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 511 


Albert Ascoli and Krystyna von Henneberg, eds. Making and Remaking Italy: The 
Cultivation of National Identity Around the Risorgimento. Oxford: Berg, 2001. 

This volume, which partially originates from a conference organized by Albert Ascoli in 
November of 1997 at the University of California, Berkeley, examines, by way of ten 
interdisciplinary essays, the different uses of Risorgimento culture in Italian discourses 
about nation and state-building from the post-Napoleonic to the post-cold war era. Even 
though, as in most volumes of this kind, the merits of individual contributions vary, 
Making and Remaking Italy: The Cultivation of National Identity around the 
Risorgimento represents a worthy addition to the English language bibliography of recent 
works on the topic. 

An introduction, co-written by Ascoli and von Henneberg, opens the volume and 
provides a brief overview of Risorgimento history and its enduring role as a cultural icon 
from the years following unification to the post-World War II era. This role, as Ascoli 
and von Henneberg contend, reveals how the national past and the foundation stories 
upon which this past rests, are always the site of conflict and negotiation between groups 
divided across lines of gender, class, and ethnicity. The four distinct sections that follow 
the introduction support Ascoli’s and Henneberg’s conclusion through the lenses 
provided by history, art history, literature, and cinema. 

The first section, titled “Refiguring the Past,’ contains only one contribution, 
notably Adrian Lyttelton’s “Creating a National Past: History, Myth and Image in the 
Risorgimento.” From the premise that the creation of national identity implies a selective 
use of the past, Lyttelton focuses on the way Romantic culture transformed episodes of 
medieval history, such as the Lombard League and the revolt of the Sicilian Vespers, into 
a national foundation story of liberty and independence. Lyttelton supports his claim by a 
careful description of a vast number of works by Romantic historians, poets, novelists, 
and artists, including the famed painter Francesco Hayez. Lyttelton’s essay also mentions 
the importance of Renaissance history in providing Romantic nationalism with an archive 
of examples and refers to Guerrazzi’s and D’Azeglio’s historical novels as cases in point. 
Lyttelton concludes his analyses by poignantly remarking how nineteenth-century 
historicism did not represent a radically novel way of interpreting history, but still relied 
on the tradition of history as a storehouse of moral examples, or Historia magistra vitae. 
An interesting and well-researched piece, Lyttelton’s contribution is extremely valuable. 
However, it is this reader’s opinion that the editors should have included at least one 
other essay on the subject to provide the audience with a wider, more balanced 
perspective on the Romantic construction of a national past. 

While the essay by Lyttelton focuses on the “official” nationalist discourse, the 
contributions that immediately follow are devoted to questioning the validity of dominant 
rhetorical formations. Collected in the section “Whose Italy?,” these contributions all 
probe received versions of nationalist stories. 

In “Dante and the Culture of Risorgimento: Literary, Political or Ideological Icon?,” 
Andrea Ciccarelli argues that, despite the exaltation of Dante as a cultural icon of 
nineteenth-century culture, Dante’s ethical and political imperative to search for a 
positive mode of existence was not followed by authors such as Alfieri, Foscolo, and 
Leopardi. These authors’ profound pessimism foreclosed the possibility of change and 
renewal. As Ciccarelli’s analyses reveal, only Manzoni came close to Dante’s vision by 


512. Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


proposing a model for a political, social, and linguistic national identity. Nonetheless, 
Dante’s status as a cultural icon not only became firmly established, but grew in stature 
during the years following unification to become the emblem of the political 
establishment. Such a peculiar reception of Dante was, according to Ciccarelli, 
foregrounded in the years before World War II, when intellectuals such as Papini, 
Prezzolini, and Marinetti recovered the cultural lesson of Dante in a shared attempt to 
modernize Italian culture by way of experimentalism and change. 

Like Ciccarelli’s contribution, Mary Ann Smart’s “Liberty On (and Off) the 
Barricades: Verdi’s Risorgimento Fantasies” questions the traditional alignment between 
canonical authors and the political order of the iiberal state. Smart not only reminds the 
reader that recent research, by musicologist Roger Parker and others, casts doubt on 
Verdi’s sincere and consistent patriotic commitment, but, through a comparative analysis 
of female characters from Attila and La battaglia di Legnano respectively, reveals 
Verdi’s intermittent alignment with official politics. 

More specifically, in the first opera Verdi represents the character of Odabella 
according to the French Revolutionary iconography of the woman warrior, but in the 
second work Lidia has become the virtuous mother to the Italian nation. Hence, as Smart 
concludes, these operas reveal how Verdi’s work underwent a process of alignment with 
the broader gender opposition demanded by a politically moderate audience. 

Consistent with the topic of this section, the essays by Nelson Moe and Lucia Re 
also focus on probing the rhetoric of official nationalist discourse and achieve their goal 
by exploring the problematic integration of women and southern Italians into the new 
political order. Through the examination of the correspondence of moderate political and 
military leaders, Moe’s “‘This is Africa’: Ruling and Representing Southern Italy, 1860- 
61,” contends that the annexation of Southern Italy was mediated by representations of 
the south that had been circulating from the middle of the eighteenth century. Such 
representations not only engendered images of the south as a land of ignorance, 
superstitions, and barbarisms but, ultimately, justified the Northern need for violent 
military intervention. Sharing Moe’s emphasis on the problematic assimilation of 
subaltern groups, Re argues, in her “Passion and Sexual Difference: The Risorgimento 
and the Gendering of Writing in Nineteenth-Century Italian Culture,” that contrary to 
widely held assumptions, the education reform of the newly-formed Italian state was far 
from liberal. Re’s examination of a number of pictorial and literary representations of 
women makes the convincing case that the reform did not promote women’s active role 
as writers and intellectuals, but was an instrument to promote the cult of domesticity 
wished for by a rigid gender-system. Re concludes her essay by tracing the legacy of the 
ideological construction of gender in the works and the lives of writers as diverse as 
Serao, Alerao, and Pirandello. 

The third section of the anthology, “Remaking the Risorgimento,” is dedicated to an 
examination of the way the Risorgimento has been appropriated and/or contested in 
twentieth-century Italian culture. Claudio Fogu’s “‘To Make History’: Garibaldinism and 
the Formation of a Fascist Historic Imaginary,” provides a most interesting analysis of 
the 1932 commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the death of Garibaldi, or 
Cinquantenario Garibaldino. Fogu’s detailed discussion of the three public ceremonies, 
notably the unveiling of the statue of Anita by Rutelli, the funeral procession of Anita’s 
body, and the parade under the Arco dei Caduti in Genoa, reveals how the menacing 
potentiality of associating Garibaldi’s memory with republican and socialist ideals was 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 513 


effectively contained by Fascism through the historicization of the past as a museum 
devoid of any continuity with the present. 

Like Fogu’s essay, Roberto Dainotto’s “‘Tramonto’ e ‘Risorgimento’: Gentile’s 
Dialectics and the Prophecy of Nationhood” addresses the Fascist historicization of the 
past. Focusing on / profeti del Risorgimento italiano and Il tramonto della cultura 
siciliana, by Giovanni Gentile, Dainotto contends that the Fascist philosopher’s nation- 
building project was predicated upon the sunset, or tramonto, of regional identity as pre- 
condition of the birth of Italy, as well as upon the renewal of the local, regionalist 
tradition. Dainotto concludes by poignantly observing how this paradox might very well 
endure today, and therefore warns the reader that the contemporary celebrations of local 
realities as a means to unmake nationalism might hide the resurgence of the former 
notions of the nation-state. 

The last two essays of this section, by David Forgacs and Millicent Marcus 
respectively, examine cinematic appropriations of the Risorgimento. Focusing on 
Blasetti’s 1860, Forgacs, in his “Nostra patria: Revisions of the Risorgimento in the 
Cinema, 1925-52,” discusses the reception of Blasetti’s film in 1934 and 1948. Forgacs 
makes the convincing claim that the film was compatible not only with its original 
context of production, but also with anti-Fascist sentiments prevalent in the post-World 
War II era. The case of /860 is, for Forgacs, an exemplary case to illustrate the elasticity 
of Risorgimento ideology in Italian culture. Further, it reveals how nation-building 
projects are artificial, imaginary constructions dependent upon a large degree of 
indeterminacy and fluidity. The last essay of this section, Marcus’s “Visconti’s Senso: 
The Risorgimento According to Gramsci or Historical Revisionism Meets Cinematic 
Innovations,” argues that, through the story of the affair between Livia Serpieri and the 
Austrian officer Franz Mahler, Visconti’s 1954 cinematic melodrama shows the 
subordination of nationalism and social revolution to the self-serving interests of the 
ruling class. Hence, Visconti’s film comes to exemplify, for Marcus, its dependence upon 
Gramsci’s Risorgimento historiography. 

The final section of the volume is titled “The Character of a Nation,” and contains 
only one essay, notably Silvana Patriarca’s “National Identity or National Character? 
New Vocabularies and Old Paradigms.” After a brief survey of recent work on the topic 
of national identity produced by Italian intellectuals over the past ten years, Patriarca sets 
out to argue that essentialist notions of an Italian national character continue to shape 
newer discourses. Patriarca substantiates her claim by way of a reading of Bollati’s 
“T italiano: Il carattere nazionale come storia e come invenzione” (1972), where 
stereotypical representation of “Italianness” as tainted by trasformismo, “familism,” and 
lack of modernization, work towards the reinscription of traditional tropes. As is the case 
of the section “Refiguring the Past,” the inclusion of only one essay, in a chapter devoted 
to the exploration of an issue as important as Italian national character, does not give the 
reader the perspective needed to assess the validity and the wider implications of the 
claims made by the author. Hence, it is this reader’s belief that the volume edited by 
Ascoli and von Henneberg would have benefited from a more careful organization. 
Nonetheless, the interdisciplinary orientation of Making and Remaking Italy: The 
Cultivation of National Identity around the Risorgimento sheds important light on the 
resilience of the Risorgimento as an enduring cultural icon, structuring the anxieties of 
both the recent and not so recent past, and resonating the interests of groups divided 
across gender, class, and ethnic lines. Therefore, the volume represents a worthy addition 


514  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


to contemporary discussion on the processes of the Italian nation and state-building, and 
can be fruitfully read in conjunction with titles such as Forgacs and Lumley’s /talian 
Cultural Studies (1996), and Allen and Russo’s Revisioning Italy: National Identity and 
Global Culture (1997). 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


Nicoletta Pireddu. Antropologi alla corte della bellezza. Decadenza ed economia 
simbolica nell’Europa fin de siécle. Edizioni Fiorini (Collana mneme): Verona, 2002. 
Pp. 479. 

While many scholars have studied decadent literature, and others have analyzed 
ethnographic and anthropological research on “primitivism” of the same period, the late 
nineteenth century, rarely have these two apparently separate areas of discourse been 
brought together in order to explore their intersections. Nicoletta Pireddu has done just 
that in this dense and theoretically astute study that brings to our attention the deep 
connections between the decadent literary ideology commonly known as “art for art’s 
sake,” or what Pireddu calls “purposeless beauty,” and the period’s anthropological 
interest in so-called “primitive” societies’ cultures based on the gift, or ceremonial 
expenditure. During an era of rampant industrialization, when economic profit had begun 
to drive Western societies at all levels including that of cultural production, decadentistic 
interests in sheer beauty and goal-less artistic prodigality provided a radical counter- 
model for art and social-political life both. 

In the area of specifically literary considerations, Pireddu has organized her study 
around analyses of the work of three of the most prominent European decadent writers: 
D’Annunzio, Wilde, and Huysmans. These chapters follow rich discussions of the 
premises of her study, which emerge out of descriptions and analyses of symbolic 
economies in both literary and anthropological texts, and then move on to detailed studies 
of the work of anthropologists Paolo Mantegazza, called “anthropologist of the passions,” 
and of the lesser known Vernon Lee. Bringing these seemingly quite distinct and 
disparate voices into the same discursive space allows Pireddu to reveal very meaningful 
points of contact between the literary and anthropological spheres of the period, as well 
as to investigate how many of the directions of modernism and modernity find their 
origins in specific preoccupations of the decadent era. The most important thesis 
underpinning this book is that the “elitist” stance of European decadent writers and artists 
can and should be read as the expression of a resistance to the logic of Western 
capitalistic economies, both real and symbolic, from which lavish, goal-less expenditure 
and sheer beauty are expelled in favor of goal-oriented production and utilitarianism. 
Decadent art, in poetics and practice, is thus both resistance to the dominant symbolic and 
literal worship of money to the exclusion of other forms of exchange, and a working out 
of alternative systems of exchange that are very much like those to be found in 
“primitive” societies based on gifting and ceremonial expenditure. 

There are many facets to Pireddu’s work: first, excellent and original readings of the 
works of three prominent decadent writers in the light of their dedication to an economy 
based on the gift and on ephemeral beauty; next, much-needed analyses of the 
understudied work of anthropologists Mantegazza and Lee, which bring their 
perspectives into wider and more central cultural debates and directions of fin de siécle 
Europe; then, and perhaps most importantly, a deeply thoughtful and very theoretically 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 515 


sound overarching view of the issues to be found in these writers and thinkers that 
redimensions the economy of the gift, lending to it resonance well into modernity and 
even postmodernity. Pireddu reveals her talents as a sensitive literary critic and as an 
acute cultural critic; she is capable of performing excellent readings of textual detail 
while weaving texts into a broad social and cultural panorama of late nineteenth-century 
Europe. Her scholarship has far-reaching implications not only for our understanding of 
decadentism and early modernism, but also for work on topics and ideas that inform and 
still circulate within postmodern literature and culture. To give but one example, the 
writers Italo Calvino and Gianni Celati collaborated with cultural historians, 
philosophers, and specialists of other areas in the 1970s as they all formulated a plan for a 
new journal that would serve as the site for innovative approaches to cultural production. 
Intersections between anthropological and literary work informed these and other writers’ 
innovative thinking about the renewal of cultural and artistic work. The journal never saw 
the light of day, but the issues they debated continued to permeate their writing, and we 
see clear ties with the economy of the gift in Celati’s recent work and in that of other 
younger writers. The pan-European and, indeed, global implications of continuing to 
consider such alternatives to symbolic and real economies (in literary, cultural, and 
social-political spheres) that expel anything that is not utilitarian are evident, and 
Pireddu’s book — original and beautifully researched — is a genuinely important 
contribution to these debates. 

Rebecca West, The University of Chicago 


Arnaldo Di Benedetto. Dal tramonto dei lumi al romanticismo. Modena: Mucchi, 
2000. Pp. 291 

Il volume di Arnaldo Di Benedetto consiste di una raccolta di saggi, in parte gia 
pubblicati tra il 1996 e il 2000, che esaminano e contestualizzano il mutamento della 
sensibilita letteraria tra il declino dell’Illuminismo e gli albori della coscienza romantica. 
La silloge si apre con due studi dedicati alle varianti della poesia idillica settecentesca, 
“Immagini dell’idillio nel secolo XVIII: Bertdla e le poetiche della poesia pastorale” e 
“‘Aspetti e caratteri della Buccolica di Giovanni Meli”. Nel primo studio viene riassunto il 
dibattito sul genere bucolico in una prospettiva comparatista, partendo dal Discourse on 
Pastoral Poetry di Pope e dal Discours sur la nature de |’églogue di Fontenelle, e 
continuando con il contributo degli enciclopedisti alla definizione dello stile pastorale, 
inteso come moderatore delle passioni e come disimpegno. Particolare attenzione ¢ 
rivolta ad Aurelio de Giorgi Bertdla e ad un suo discorso inedito, Ragionamento della 
poesia pastorale, che ipotizza un’associazione tra la poesia pastorale e una beata, ma 
raffinata, eta dell’oro, vista come dimensione primordiale non riconducibile a parametri 
attuali. Nel secondo saggio, dopo una premessa sul topos della regolarita temporale 
espresso nella lirica arcadica attraverso il ritmo delle stagioni, dei mesi e delle parti del 
giorno, si analizzano le quattro canzonette della Buccolica di Giovanni Meli. 

Dei quattro studi che seguono, tre sono dedicati al pensiero politico di Alfieri (“Per 
Vittorio Alfieri”, “La ‘repubblica’ di Vittorio Alfieri”, “‘Il nostro gran Machiavelli’: 
Alfieri e Machiavelli”) e uno ai rapporti tra Parini e Alfieri e alla ricezione di 
quest’ultimo nella tradizione romantica tedesca (“Le occasioni di un anniversario: 
Vittorio Alfieri tra Parini e Goethe”). Riconducendo il tragediografo piemontese alla 
linea liberale settecentesca, piuttosto che a quella democratica, Di Benedetto riassume 


516 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


con acribia e competenza il pensiero politico alfieriano, seguendone lo svolgimento, 
dall’opposizione nei confronti dell’assolutismo al netto rifiuto della rivoluzione francese, 
e illustrandone le principali interpretazioni. 

Dopo un capitolo dedicato ad una vicenda politica partenopea inquadrata nei tumulti 
de! 1799 (“La rivoluzione napoletana del 1799: il vescovo Natale e il ‘Catechismo 
Repubblicano’ a lui attribuito”), una documentata analisi di natura comparata illustra il 
mito sette-ottocentesco di Tasso attraverso le testimonianze di Rousseau, Goethe, Byron, 
Shelley e Leopardi. Conclude il libro un saggio sulla valenza ideologica della letteratura 
filellenica del primo Ottocento (“‘Le rovine d’Atene’: la letteratura filellenica in Italia tra 
Sette e Ottocento”) dove sono indagati i contributi di Scrofani, Casti, Berchet, Foscolo e 
Tommaseo. 

Stefania Buccini, University of Wisconsin-Madison 


Barbara Milizia, Le guide dei viaggiatori romantici, Istituto nazionale di studi 
romani, Roma, 2001, 84 pp., VIII tavv. 

Inaugurata nel 1998 da due saggi di Vincenzo De Caprio e Gaetano Platania raccolti sotto 
il titolo comune di // viaggio in testi inediti e rari (gia recensiti su questa rivista nel 
2001), la serie “Il viaggio” dell’Istituto Nazionale di Studi Romani ha dato puntualmente 
alle stampe un volume all’anno: Viaggiatori inglesi tra Sette e Ottocento, a cura dello 
stesso De Caprio, che dirige anche la serie, nel 1999; // Giubileo, a cura di Andrea 
Sanfilippo nel 2000; e, nel 2001, Le guide dei viaggiatori romantici, di Barbara Milizia. 

Anche in quest’ultimo caso, come in quello della raccolta che ha aperto la serie, il 
titolo fa riferimento all’area tematica cui rinviano i diversi contributi raccolti nel libro. Le 
guide dei viaggiatori romantici si compone infatti di quattro saggi distinti, che pur 
mirando a delineare !’evoluzione parallela della figura del viaggiatore e del genere della 
guida tra la meta del XVIII e la meta del XIX secolo, mancano in parte della coerenza 
propria degli studi monografici (l’opera analizzata nel terzo saggio viene ad esempio 
presentata come pili vicina alle guide moderne di quella affrontata nel secondo, pur 
avendo visto la luce 10 anni prima). 

Presi singolarmente i saggi riescono nondimeno a far luce su aspetti specifici della 
letteratura e della trattatistica di viaggio, che conobbero nel secolo del Grand-Tour uno 
dei momenti non solo di maggior espansione ma anche di pit fortunata sperimentazione 
formale. 

Ne é chiaro esempio I’/tinerario istruttivo diviso in otto stazioni o giornate di 
Giuseppe Vasi, cui Barbara Milizia dedica il primo saggio della raccolta (“Il riuso della 
guida di Giuseppe Vasi” 9-25). Edito per la prima volta nel 1763, sulla scorta del 
successo riscosso dalle incisioni del Vasi stesso (raccolte tra il 1747 ed il 1761 in Delle 
magnificenze di Roma antica e moderna), \’ Itinerario ricevette a sua volta un’accoglienza 
tale da motivarne, oltre alla ristampa del 1765 (col titolo questa volta di Indice storico del 
gran prospetto di Roma), la traduzione in francese (Milizia cita un’edizione del 1786, ma 
se ne ebbe gia una nel 1773) e da farne l’oggetto di diversi rifacimenti. Primo fra tutti 
quello del figlio stesso di Vasi, Mariano, il cui /tinerario istruttivo di Roma del 1791 
rinnovo il successo dell’opera paterna e fu quindi a sua volta “riveduto, corretto ed 
accresciuto secondo lo stato attuale dei monumenti dal professor A. Nibby” nel 1824. 

La conferma dell’efficacia dell’organizzazione per giornate ideata da Vasi non ci 
viene pero tanto da coloro che la condivisero ed adottarono (come |’editore Luigi Piale, 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 517 


che nel 1868 affiancd alla traduzione in inglese dell’/tinerario del 1824, una seconda 
guida in inglese significativamente intitolata Rome seen in a week), quanto da chi 
l’avversd. Dando alle stampe nel 1834 la sua Guida metodica di Roma e suoi contorni 
Giuseppe Melchiorri intese infatti contrapporre al metodo per giornate quello della 
divisione territoriale in rioni. Ciononostante, consapevole, come rileva Milizia, del 
successo del principio vasiano, Melchiorri non poté “fare a meno di includere nella sua 
guida metodica anche un ‘metodo analitico onde visitare la citta in giornate””’ (24-25). 

Nel secondo saggio Barbara Milizia lascia il territorio delle guide cittadine per 
entrare in quello delle memorie di viaggio (di cui i viaggiatori primo-ottocenteschi si 
servivano, in realta, spesso, al medesimo scopo) aprendo le pagine di /taly di Lady 
Morgan (“La citta dei romantici in /taly di Lady Morgan” 27-42). Di quest’ opera, edita 
per la prima volta da Henry Colburn a Londra nel 1821 in due volumi (anche se Milizia 
fa unicamente riferimento alla seconda edizione dello stesso 1821 in tre volumi), 
vengono in realta analizzate solo la sezione dedicata alla citta di Roma e le appendici che 
l’accompagnano, ovvero le “Notes on statistics” e “On law” di Thomas Charles Morgan, 
una pagina del Diario di Roma e un estratto dall’/ndex librorum prohibitorum. Manca di 
necessita, perché inserita solo nell’edizione in due volumi, |’appendice “On the state of 
medicine in Italy, with brief notices of some universities and hospitals”, sempre del 
marito di Lady Morgan, con le sue pagine sull’Ospedale di Santo Spirito. 

Italy rappresenta per Milizia un compiuto esempio di guida “romantica”, ovvero di 
percorso della memoria che antepone alla precisione delle descrizioni |’esaltazione delle 
loro potenzialita sentimentali, indulgendo, ad esempio, nella celebrazione delle rovine 
che dominano il paesaggio romano, Pit che a guidare i passi del suo pubblico, /taly 
sembra cioé volta a “‘guidare’ le sue sensazioni” (35). 

Il gusto per le rovine non impedisce comunque a Lady Morgan di denunciare la 
desolazione che caratterizza in particolare la campagna romana, dovuta “a ‘la bigotteria e 
il dispotismo’ del governo pontificio” (30-31), contro il quale |’autrice indirizza la 
propria ironia riproducendo una pagina del Diario di Roma (a questa appendice si 
riferisce la formula “for the amusement of the reader” e non all’/ndex librorum 
prohibitorum, come scrive Milizia) e riportando la voce secondo la quale sulla cattedra di 
San Pietro sarebbe iscritta la formula “C’é solo un Dio, e Maometto é il suo profeta”. 
L’ironia su San Pietro di Lady Morgan non passo inosservata, “Questo racconto diviene 
causa di controversia con il reverendo Nicholas Wiseman” 41, ricorda Barbara Milizia, 
cosi come non passO inosservata quella sulle donne italiane, accusate di mancare di 
morale, senso materno e cultura. A queste accuse rispose Ginevra Canonici Fachini nella 
premessa, degna a sua volta di citazione, del Prospetto biografico delle donne italiane 
rinomate in letteratura (Venezia: Tipografia di Alvisopoli, 1824), intitolata “Risposta a 
Lady Morgan risguardante alcune accuse da lei date alle donne italiane nella sua opera 
L’Italie”’. 

Con i Remarks on Antiquities, Arts and Letters, During an Excursion in Italy in the 
Years 1802 and 1803, cui Milizia riserva il terzo saggio, “Remarks di Joseph Forsyth: 
viaggio a Roma e nella sua storia” (43-57), si torna al 1813 e ad un’opera che “presenta 
pit! nettamente I’aspetto e il contenuto di una guida turistica moderna” (44). I Remarks 
sono, infatti, raccolti in un unico volume e completati da un indice dei contenuti di rapida 
e facile consultazione. Questo non impedi comunque a Forsyth di prendere apertamente 
le distanze dalle guide che, come quella del Vasi, si limitavano ad indicare possibili 
itinerari giornalieri, per dare vita ad un vero e proprio strumento di studio e di 


518  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


approfondimento culturale, basato sul primato della storia e sulla conseguente 
ripartizione della materia trattata in epoche culturali (“La storia”, osserva Milizia, “gli 
consente di classificare i monumenti di Roma in opere repubblicane, imperiali, medievali 
e moderne” 52). 

Nemmeno Forsyth riusci, d’altra parte, a sottrarsi del tutto al fascino decadente di 
Roma e alla tentazione di darne testimonianza facendo ricorso al registro sentimentale, 
ma la parte meno caduca della sua opera rimane comunque quella che vede |’erudito 
settecentesco misurarsi ed offrire la propria interpretazione dei diversi aspetti della realta 
culturale romana, da quelli urbanistico-architettonici a quelli artistico-letterari a quelli 
socio-economici. 

L’ultimo saggio di Barbara Milizia é quindi dedicato ai Travels in Europe Between 
the Years 1824 and 1828; adapted to the Use of Travellers; and Comprising an 
Historical Account of Sicily, with a Guide for Strangers in that Island di Mariana Starke 
(“Un ‘baedeker’ ante litteram. Travels in Europe for the use of travellers di Mariana 
Starke” 59-73), il cui status di “guida turistica vera e propria” (59) trova conferma nel 
titolo stesso dell’opera. Ultimo di una serie di testi dedicati dalla Starke ai viaggi in 
Europa (dalle Letters from Italy, between the years 1792 and 1798, containing a view of 
the Revolutions in that country, from the capture of Nice by the French Republic to the 
expulsion of Pius VI del 1800, ai Travels on the Continent: written for the use and 
particular information of travellers del 1820), Travels in Europe, edito a Londra da John 
Murray nel 1828, anticipa la formula del baedeker limitando “all’essenziale” le parti “pit 
prettamente ‘sentimentali”’ (64) ed affiancando alle notazioni storico-artistiche 
“indicazioni pratiche, di facile fruizione” (61). L’opera della Starke dedica infatti ampio 
spazio alla descrizione delle maggiori feste religiose, all’indicazione dei posti piu 
convenienti in cui alloggiare e all’elencazione dei documenti di viaggio necessari nonché 
degli orari e delle tariffe dei musei. Né mancano vere e proprie indiscrezioni da guida 
turistica come quelle sulla corruttibilita dei custodi dei monumenti, indiscrezioni forse 
ingenerose ma che non meritano certo di essere ricondotte, come fa Milizia, alla 
“grettezza e tirchieria tipicamente inglesi” (70-71). L’opera della Starke si conclude poi 
con un indice alfabetico per argomenti che offre un’ulteriore conferma della sua 
modernita e del suo ruolo di “anticipatrice degli handbooks ideati da Murray e Baedeker 
verso la meta del XIX secolo” (73). 

Una segnalazione merita infine |’apparato iconografico di questa raccolta di saggi di 
Barbara Milizia, volto a combinare nelle sue 8 tavole |’informazione bibliologica 
(attraverso la riproduzione delle copertine di tre dei quattro testi analizzati) con 
l’esemplificazione del sentimento dello spazio proprio dei viaggiatori romantici (tramite 
due incisioni di Vasi e due dipinti di Turner). 

Paolo Rambelli, University College London 


Ann Lawson Lucas. La ricerca dell’ignoto. Firenze: Olschki, 2000. 

I personaggi di Natalia Ginzburg leggono Baudelaire, Goethe, Heine, Thomas Mann, 
Montale, Racine, Pascal, Proust e, un po’ a sorpresa, Emilio Salgari. Chi lo legge é pero 
l’ozioso protagonista di Valentino, e I misteri della giungla nera sono unico libro ad 
essere menzionato dalla Ginzburg con un tono di disapprovazione. ‘— Ma non sei un po’ 
troppo vecchio per leggere / misteri della giungla nera? — Non parlarmi con questo tono 
da maestra di scuola, — rispose’ (Opere, I, 249). E un esempio fra i tanti possibili del 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 519 


modo in cui Salgari é stato sottovalutato. Si é visto in lui uno scrittore per ragazzi, 
didascalico, e magari diseducativo. Va accolto percid con gratitudine il libro con cui Ann 
Lawson Lucas, che conosce bene i testi di cui parla e li analizza con rigore, smonta i 
luoghi comuni che su Salgari si sono accumulati. 

Gli adulti, dice innanzi tutto la Lawson Lucas, abituata ‘alla solida tradizione 
ottocentesca inglese dei romanzi d’avventure’ (xiv), possono apprezzare benissimo la 
letteratura per ragazzi. Di questo genere letterario fanno parte i libri di James Fenimore 
Cooper, Robert Louis Stevenson, Daniel Defoe; e ad esso |’Italia ha dato un contributo di 
rilievo alla fine dell’800: ‘Le avventure di Pinocchio uscirono in volume nel 1883; Cuore 
apparve nel 1886; tra il 1883 e il 1884, l’embrionico romanzo Le tigri della Malesia (che 
pill tardi sarebbe diventato Le tigri di Mompracem) fu stampato in appendice su un 
quotidiano per adulti’ (xvi). Salgari ¢ uno scrittore per ragazzi, ma non é mai 
semplicistico o superficiale. Riprende o anticipa addirittura posizioni innovative: la sua 
ammirazione per la natura ricorda quella di Darwin (alla corrispondenza di atteggiamenti 
fra i due scrittori la Lawson Lucas dedica pagine molto convincenti alla fine del secondo 
capitolo); e il presupposto educativo con cui Salgari si avvicina ai giovani — lasciando 
che traggano da sé le proprie conclusioni morali — assomiglia a quello propugnato nello 
stesso periodo da Maria Montessori. 

Salgari, poi, fu uno scrittore per ragazzi e per ragazze. Deliberatamente offri le sue 
storie di scontri, fughe, naufragi, ricerche di tesori e attraversamenti di giungle pericolose 
anche al pubblico femminile. Tra il 1895 e il 1911 (anno della morte dello scrittore) ‘non 
meno di diciotto romanzi ruotano attorno a una dinamica protagonista femminile; sei di 
essi apparvero tra il 1904 e il 1905 e in alcuni si incontra una seconda donna forte che 
sostiene la prima o é in competizione con lei’ (65). In questo Salgari é un innovatore; e le 
sue eroine non sono solo europee, 0 contemporanee: ‘alcune si muovono nel XVI e XVIII 
secolo, e altre addirittura nell’era pre-cristiana dell’antico Egitto’ (65). Dal punto di vista 
del sesso o della razza, come dal punto di vista della classe sociale, il ‘messaggio 
fondamentale’ dei suoi romanzi é la ‘fede nell’ uguaglianza’ (73). 

Salgari vuole intrattenere e informare. La Lawson Lucas difende le sue descrizioni 
di paesaggi, piante e animali; e mostra come esse, oltre ad essere precise dal punto di 
vista scientifico, abbiano un’importante funzione evocativa (33). Il valore artistico de / 
misteri della jungla nera e de I promessi sposi é molto diverso, e il paesaggio naturale ¢ 
rivissuto con sentimenti diversi dallo scrittore laico (Salgari) e da quello cristano 
(Manzoni), ma |’utilizzazione del paesaggio a scopi evocativi € simile nelle due opere. In 
Salgari, come in Darwin, la combinazione ‘di stupore poetico e precisione scientifica’ 
(43) segnala I’emergere di una cultura originale proiettata verso la modernita. 

Salgari, infine, non assume mai un atteggiamento dichiaratamente educativo; e fa 
bene, osserva la Lawson Lucas, anche perché il moraleggiare si ¢ rivelato sempre 
controproduttivo. I suoi romanzi, tuttavia, affermano implicitamente diversi valori 
morali: l’amicizia, la solidarieta, la giustizia, la lealta. Sono libri ottimisti, che 
incoraggiano a raccogliere le sfide, ‘ad affrontare rischi per superare difficolta e ostacoli’ 
(136). In tutta la sua produzione Salgari ha ‘insegnato che il pericolo e la paura vanno 
affrontati con coraggio e tranquillo buon senso, che il male va sradicato e i torti 
raddrizzati’, e che, ‘se si esagera, é facile passare dalla ragione al torto’ (80). 

Le doti pi ammirevoli della Lawson Lucas (simile in questo alle corsare dei libri 
che analizza) sono la spregiudicatezza e l’indipendenza di giudizio. Dopo aver rimosso 
tanti pregiudizi anti-salgariani, ne attacca uno di segno opposto, sostenendo che // 


520 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


corsaro nero non merita la fama di cui gode. Alcune situazioni di quel libro sono 
tipicamente salgariane e sviluppate con la solita abilita. Ad esse si mescolano perd 
ingredienti estranei, derivati dalla cultura superomistica 0 decadente di fine ’800: il 
protagonista indossa abiti raffinati, alloggia in una cabina elegante, é distaccato dai 
compagni, si presenta come superiore. I] suo codice morale é diverso da quello degli altri 
eroi: sacrifica i membri del suo equipaggio, si vendica senza scrupoli, massacra gli 
abitanti innocenti di Maracaybo, abbandona ‘la sua amata alle onde, allo scopo di 
preservare il suo amor proprio’. L’ambivalenza morale di questo strano romanzo, osserva 
la Lawson Lucas, ‘é tanto pili inquietante perché lo scrittore sembra plaudire alle idee e 
alle azioni della sua creatura’ (163). 

La Lawson Lucas si addentra in molte ricerche specialistiche trattando 
dell’umorismo salgariano (in sede critica nessuno lo aveva notato finora) e delle 
conoscenze che lo scrittore ebbe della cultura alta, musicale e letteraria. Analizza la sua 
produzione in senso cronologico, scoprendo in essa delle fasi ben distinte: una iniziale (in 
cui Salgari si rivolge ancora a degli adulti e tiene presente le loro aspettative), quella pit 
nota della maturita, e una conclusiva nuovamente anomala (in cui lo sconforto che 
portera lo scrittore al suicidio si manifesta nella mancanza di idealismo). La Lawson 
Lucas paragona Salgari ai principali scrittori internazionali impegnati nello stesso genere 
letterario, e mostra come l’influenza di quelli a lui precedenti (Gustave Aimard, Louis 
Boussenard, Thomas Mayne Reid, Jules Verne) ‘spesso evidente nella scelta dei luoghi o 
dei soggetti, o semplicemente nei titoli e nei nomi’ sia poi molto ridotta (120). Afferma 
cosi la originalita di Salgari, inosservata in precedenza ‘poiché la sua enorme popolarita 
lo relegava al rango di autore solo popolare’ (123). 

Anche in questo caso, pero, la verita € complessa. La Lawson Lucas ha scoperto che 
due libri di Salgari, pubblicati con lo pseudonimo di E. Bertolini, sono rielaborazioni o 
traduzioni di romanzi stranieri. Uno dei romanzi plagiati é addirittura King Solomon's 
Mines di Henry Rider Haggard. Salgari non conosceva |’inglese, ma la Lawson Lucas ha 
trovato una traduzione francese del libro di Haggard, la Découverte des Mines du Roi 
Salomon, di cui lo scrittore italiano si servi: l’uso ‘é confermato dall’ortografia identica 
— e francese — dei nomi (Quatremain, Gagoul, Tosala) e da molti altri particolari; il 
fatto che due capitoli hanno titoli identici nelle versioni francese e italiana, titoli che non 
si trovano affatto nel romanzo originale, é prova decisiva’ (132). E probabile che Salgari 
si sia pentito della propria ‘pirateria’: la mancanza di leggi adeguate alla tutela dei diritti 
d’autore fece si che le sue opere fossero a loro volta oggetto di saccheggio da parte di 
altri scrittori. 

Si pud avere qualche perplessita su quello che la Lawson Lucas dice su Verne 
(ingiustamente svalutato, a mio parere) e su Calvino (eccessivamente lodato per il 
contributo che il postmoderno avrebbe dato alla letteratura per ragazzi); ma su Salgari 
credo che pochissime obiezioni siano possibili (e non saprei formularne nessuna). II libro 
€ chiaro, rigoroso e appassionato. Mi piace pensare che anche Natalia Ginzburg, 
leggendolo, si sarebbe convinta della grandezza di Salgari. Che fosse inclinata a farlo, lo 
mostra Lessico famigliare, dove \’autore de J misteri della giungla nera ricompare per 
ben due volte. Lisetta Giua legge i suoi romanzi insieme ai libri di Benedetto Croce: e 
‘nei suoi sogni e nei suoi discorsi si mescolavano maraja indiani, frecce avvelenate, i 
fascisti, e quel piccolo conte di nome Balbo che la domenica veniva a trovarla e le 
portava i libri di Croce’ (I, 1029). Ormai adulta, Lisetta partecipa alla lotta partigiana 
contro i tedeschi, viene arrestata, incarcerata, fugge fortunosamente: ‘non era molto 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 521 


cambiata, dal tempo che [...] mi raccontava i romanzi di Salgari’, dice la Ginzburg; 
‘sognava, a quattordici anni, imprese avventurose: e aveva avuto qualcosa di quello che 
aveva sognato, durante la Resistenza’ (I, 1079-80). Dire che Salgari ha contribuito con 
Croce alla formazione civica di un’italiana non é un riconoscimento da poco. 

Luciano Parisi, Trinity College, Dublin 


Philip D. Rasico. Café i Quilombo: els diaris de viatge de Joaquim Miret i Sans (1900- 
1918). Barcelona, Institut d’estudis catalans, 2001. “Biblioteca Filoldgica, n. 45”. 
Joaquim Miret i Sans (1858-1919), storico ed erudito, membro della Reial Académia de 
Bones Letres di Barcellona, tra i fondatori dell’Institut d’Estudis Catalans e delle pit 
prestigiose associazioni culturali spagnole, fu viaggiatore instancabile attraverso |’Europa 
dei primi anni del Novecento. Di famiglia facoltosa, Miret non entré direttamente nella 
professione accademica, ma le sue edizioni di manoscritti catalani medievali sono opere 
di grande importanza filologica. Data la sua predilezione culturale e i contatti con gli 
storici francesi e gli editori della Revue Hispanique, era ovvio che la meta prediletta dei 
suoi spostamenti fosse Parigi, ma Miret i Sans viaggid spesso anche in altri paesi: 
Inghilterra, Germania, Svezia, Danimarca, Svizzera e Belgio, Grecia e il Medio Oriente, 
l’Africa del nord. In Italia passo un paio di settimane nella primavera del 1901, diretto a 
Brindisi, da cui parti per la Grecia e la Turchia, vi transitd nel 1906, ritornando dalla 
Svizzera, e la rivisitd per due settimane nell’autunno del 1912. I suoi itinerari italiani non 
differiscono molto da quelli tradizionalmente percorsi dai viaggiatori di fine Ottocento 
che si recavano nella Penisola. Venendo dalla Spagna, dopo aver attraversato la Francia 
meridionale, linguisticamente sorella della sua Catalogna, Miret entrava in Italia da 
Ventimiglia, percorreva la Riviera, soffermandosi a Genova, Pisa e Firenze, per arrivare a 
Roma, tappa privilegiata per un visitatore dagli interessi storici ed umanistici. 

Siamo di fronte ad una trentina di diari dagli interessi particolari, privi, perd, di ogni 
tentativo teso a creare sintesi sociologico-culturali dei paesi visitati. Miret @ un 
viaggiatore pedante, minuzioso, le cui osservazioni, sotto la banalita superficiale, 
riflettono una serena mancanza di curiosita intellettuale per I’“altro”. Lo studioso 
catalano viaggia per professione e per divertimento: non parla con la gente, conversa con 
i pochi colleghi che incontra e con i famigliari che spesso lo accompagnano. Munito, 
probabilmente, del solito Baedeker, ¢ ben preparato alla visita delle “curiosita” locali. 
Meta dei testi, fino all’ottobre 1909, sono stesi in spagnolo, poi Miret usa esclusivamente 
il catalano Osservazioni metereologiche precise, lamentele sugli orari dei treni, i 
loro ritardi e le condizioni fisiche del viaggio, notizie sugli alberghi e i ristoranti, le 
biblioteche, le chiese e i musei, i colleghi, i titoli dei suoi libri che offre in dono ai 
bibliotecari e ai colleghi, e le rappresentazioni teatrali a cui assiste. La nota delle sue 
spese é di una meticolosita scrupolosa, che gli fa registrare il costo del caffé e del tram, 
l’affrancatura delle cartoline, persino il numero della camera d’albergo in cui sosta, la 
mancia lasciata ai camerieri e il costo dei vari “quilombos” che visita. Questo termine, 
che Philip Rasico ha posto, non senza malizia, nel titolo dell’edizione dei viaggi di Miret, 
potra sorprendere il lettore curioso. Del quilombo, lemma a lungo sconosciuto ai dizionari 
di lingua spagnola e catalana, il curatore offre la storia del percorso etimologico, che va 
dall’ Africa al Brasile e all’Argentina, per raggiungere nell’Ottocento i porti mediterranei 
della Spagna, accompagnato dal tango; o forse arriva alle orecchie di Miret, che lo usa 
per la prima volta a Parigi, direttamente attraverso l’uso che ne fanno i suoi colleghi 
francesi. Il termine si riferisce semplicemente alla “casa chiusa”, che l’illustre erudito 


522  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


catalano frequenta accanitamente in tutte le citta in cui si trova, e diventa il filo 
conduttore del testo scarno della sua odeporica. “Café i quilombo” é il binomio tipico 
che segna quasi tutte le citta visitate, qualunque ne sia |’ubicazione, seguito da formule 
parallele: “quilombo y tranvia y cartas postales”, “café, comida, quilombo”, “quilombo 
con nifia de Lille, que vive rue Pigalle, 35", “quilombo rue d’Amboise”, “quilombo arabe 
(en el suelo se hace toda la operaci6n)”, “correo, tranvia, vapor, quilombo”, “quilombo 
con joven irlandesa”, e cosi via. A Mayorca, il vispo erudito, sessantenne, visita tre 
quilombos in sei giorni, riportandone fedelmente gli indirizzi. Ma a questo punto, il 
lettore indiscreto non cerchi precisazioni lubriche sulla varieta delle prestazioni offerte a 
questo “viatger i bordeller molt entusiasta”, come lo definisce Rasico, poiché Miret 
adombra sotto scarse annotazioni, volutamente sibilline, le sue esperienze erotiche. Una 
volta, perd, a Clichy, forse in grazia di illuminazioni particolari 0 con la speranza di poter 
ripassare sul posto, il Nostro non manca di ricordare il nome della persona che lo ha 
accolto: “me voy con una chica Germaine Beaumont y viene 4 dormir conmigo en mi 
hotel”. Qui il lemma raro é scomparso e la vicenda autobiografica resta esposta con 
candida semplicita. Una volta tanto siamo di fronte alla nuda verita odeporica, raccontata 
senza falsi pudori e non trasformata volutamente dal narratore che tende a diventare 
romanziere. In altre parole, il gradiente “fiction” dell’odeporica di Miret i Sans é 
pressoché inesistente: la nota della spesa non gli permette aberrazioni. 

I diari che ci rimangono delle escursioni di Miret sono solo una parte delle note 
scritte nel corso degli altri viaggi che ha compiuto (data |’accuratezza delle sue note, é 
supponibile che altri diari degli altri spostamenti di Miret siano andati perduti!). Lo stile 
formulaico della scrittura, il voluminoso apparato delle spese, le annotazioni precise sui 
luoghi, potranno, forse, servire per documentare gli aspetti economici e sociali del 
viaggio nell’Italia del primo Novecento. Se la precisione di Miret fa del suo diario un 
raro esempio di oggettivita nel campo dell’odeporica tradizionale, generalmente invaso 
dalla creativita dell’autore-letterato, il lettore non vi trovera, ahimé, che brevi spunti 
narrativi. Le osservazioni pil curiose saranno riservate a luoghi esotici come Istanbul e 
l’Africa del Nord: la vecchia Europa non ha pit nulla di avvincente da offrire al letterato 
in vacanza. Del resto, gli appunti presi da Miret nei suoi spostamenti, intesi come 
semplici promemoria per uso privato, non hanno mai avuto pretese letterarie, un 
fenomeno piuttosto raro quando lo scrivente é appunto un letterato di professione. . 

Questa edizione dei testi odeporici di Miret, semplice ed illuminante, con una 
precisa introduzione storica e un apparato di note essenziali che illustrano i personaggi 
nominati nel testo, é un modello nel genere e ne felicitiamo il curatore. 

Luigi Monga, Vanderbilt University 


Angela Ida Villa. Neoidealismo e rinascenza latina tra Otto e Novecento. La cerchia di 
Corazzini: poeti dimenticati e riviste del crepuscolarismo romano (1903-1907). Milano: 
LED, 1999. Pp. 852. 
Nello stesso anno in cui licenzia alle stampe questo ricchissimo volume documentario sul 
crepuscolarismo romano, Angela Ida Villa cura, per i tipi degli Istituti Editoriali e 
Poligrafici Internazionali, Le opere di Sergio Corazzini. 

Questa doppia fatica critica e filologica rende Angela Ida Villa una voce di riguardo 
nel dibattito sulla scuola crepuscolare e, in maniera pil’ ampia, sulla “crisi” culturale e 
filosofica di fine secolo. Lo dimostra la lettura di questi due volumi, eminentemente 
complementare. Neoidealismo e rinascenza latina ha il pregio di rendere pit visibili, 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 523 


all’occhio dello studioso del primo Novecento, fisionomie poetiche sfuggite alla penna 
dello storico ma — all’epoca — altresi impegnate in un fertile dialogo con il piu noto dei 
poeti romani di inizio secolo. Mentre, per quanto riguarda il volume delle Opere 
corazziniane, la ricerca condotta dalla Villa ha l’importante merito di aver accresciuto di 
significativi esemplari lirici (oltre ad aver riunito in un’unica veste tipografica, le pur 
rilevanti prose d’occasione, giornalistiche e drammaturgiche), l’opera lirica corazziniana 
che, fino al volume curato dalla Nostra, recava come sigillo di garanzia la firma di 
Stefano Jacomuzzi, nel 1968 curatore per Einaudi delle Poesie edite e inedite. E 
sicuramente, |’opera di scandaglio meticoloso che ha portato I’autrice del pit corposo 
volume che qui si commenta a censire |’intera produzione letteraria crepuscolare romana 
negli anni 1903-1907 (nella doppia articolazione di critica letteraria e scrittura creativa), 
ha facilitato il reperimento di quei testi sfuggiti alla cernita dello Jacomuzzi, rendendo pit 
intellegibili alcune giunture del pensiero corazziniano, oltreché della sua dizione poetica. 

Neoidealismo e rinascenza latina nasce, in prima istanza, come “rassegna” (11) 
delle personalita del crepuscolarismo romano. Tuttavia, una volta abbandonate le strade, 
gia sufficientemente battute dalla critica, della perlustrazione tematica e della 
ricognizione delle fonti, si impone con chiare lettere il problema dell’ideologia e della 
poetica del gruppo in quanto “emergevano [...] componenti, presenti anche in misura 
dominante, difficilmente riconducibili a quelle classificate dalla critica come prettamente 
‘crepuscolari’, ma che d’altra parte non si potevano passare sotto silenzio” (12). Proprio 
questa inaspettata inversione di tendenza costituisce il predicato essenziale di una 
autentica rivoluzione copernicana, testimoniata dalla Villa, nel microcosmo magnificato 
del cosiddetto — ormai é d’obbligo — “crepuscolarismo” romano colto nei suoi anni 
eroici. Rivoluzione copernicana che attiene al ribaltamento di uno dei pit’ durevoli clichés 
critici sul crespuscolarismo: la scarsa sensibilita del movimento alla dimensione 
ideologica dell’epoca, riflessa nella liquidazione dell’engagement come atteggiamento 
del poeta nei confronti della sua contemporaneita. La ricerca della Villa dimostra altresi 
che il dibattito filosofico e culturale che vede impegnate, sulle pit importanti testate, le 
maggiori personalita intellettuali dell’epoca non aveva lasciato freddi i crepuscolari i 
quali, dal canto loro, si rivelano alacri promotori culturali, fomentando numerose, ¢ 
significative, occasioni di confronto. 

Il volume si divide in due sezioni, a loro volta articolate in parti e capitoli. La prima 
sezione, Leta della nuova rinascenza. Neoidealismo e rinascenza latina, costituisce non 
solo il necessario disegno dello sfondo culturale sul quale le figure del crepuscolarismo 
romano stagliano le loro personalita, ma anche la piattaforma dalla quale la negletta 
dimensione ideologica del movimento acquisisce spessore. Nella prima parte della 
suddetta sezione, Aspetti dell’antinaturalismo nella letteratura italiana tra Otto e 
Novecento, suddivisa in due capitoli analitici e una breve sezione conclusiva, |’autrice 
espone la traiettoria ideologica sulla quale si assestano i materiali prodotti dai cenacoli 
romani. L’antipositivismo a matrice irrazionalista, pur costituendo la cornice filosofica 
che inquadra gli sforzi teoretici del movimento, rappresenta anche il centro di 
irradiazione di due correnti particolarmente popolari presso il ceto intellettuale romano: il 
neoidealismo mistico (27-68) e la cosiddetta “rinascenza latina” (69-124). Entrambe le 
correnti sono ricondotte alla loro fonte francese, identificabile nella crescente intolleranza 
— registrabile alla fine dell’Ottocento e affidata ai memorabili affondi di Alfred Fouillée 
e Ferdinand Brunetiére, pubblicati dalla prestigiosa Revue des deux mondes — verso il 
materialismo filosofico e il naturalismo letterario. Il dibattito francese, innescato 


524 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


dall’entusiastica ricezione della nuova letteratura proveniente dall’ Europa nord-orientale, 
viene seguito con acceso entusiasmo da un gruppo di tenaci diffusori culturali quali 
Giuseppe Zuccante, Ugo Ojetti e Arnaldo Cervesato, i cui pil rilevanti interventi sono 
accuratamente chiosati dalla Villa con utili informazioni contestuali. Tuttavia, la 
dimensione cosmopolita che aveva favorito, in Francia, l’impulso neoidealista e 
misticheggiante stuzzica in Italia il revival del mito latino. Il movimento della 
“rinascenza_ latina”, pur condividendo con il neomisticismo le comuni basi 
neoidealistiche, acquisisce in ambito italiano nuances accesamente nazionalistiche — 
soprattutto all’indomani della sconfitta di Adua — che preludono ai piu metallici lucori 
dell’alba futurista prossima di li a pochi anni. Di questa importante corrente 
irrazionalistica, la Villa coglie i legami con la ricerca lombrosiana e ne tratteggia le 
personalita pil’ coinvolte, oltre che segnalare e commentare i loro contributi pit 
significativi. Difatti, se di Mario Morasso e Gabriele D’Annunzio si segnalano le 
prevedibili convergenze con il panlatinismo, di Angelo De Gubernatis si traccia, in 
maniera esaustiva, il ritratto di instancabile animatore culturale oltreché fondatore dei 
massimi organi della rinascenza latina, la Societa Elleno-Latina e il periodico di 
propaganda Cronache della civilta elleno-latina. La schedatura dei periodici coinvolti nel 
movimento (che contempla, inoltre, 1’Hermes di Borgese, La rassegna latina di Mario 
Maria Martini, // regno di Enrico Corradini) consente, inoltre, di tratteggiare il ritratto 
storico-geografico a scala nazionale dell’infatuazione per il neoidealismo nelle sue varie 
sfaccettature. 

La seconda parte della prima sezione del volume, Esempi del neomisticismo e della 
rinascenza latina nella stampa romana del primo Novecento, articolata in quattro 
capitoli, rappresenta il tentativo — ben riuscito — di ridurre a scala cittadina la 
mappatura della penetrazione neoidealistica. Con una esaustivita che diventera consueta 
al lettore del volume, la Villa procede a una rassegna delle riviste romane coinvolte nel 
dibattito sul neoidealismo e sulla rinascenza latina tra il 1901 e il 1907. Delle cinque 
riviste, divise per correnti si procede a una schedatura dettagliata: oltre ai profili dei 
fondatori e notizie sui collaboratori, seguono la presentazione e commento dei singoli 
numeri della rivista, con ampie citazioni tratte dai contributi pid significativi. Non manca, 
in alcune circostanze, la doverosa segnalazione delle reazioni, in altre riviste, ai contributi 
presi in analisi. Ne emerge una trattazione capillare della storia culturale capitolina dei 
primi anni del Novecento di cui si sottolinea l’orgogliosa effervescenza e la volonta di 
ingaggiare in un serrato e proficuo dialogo con le voci d’oltralpe, come sta a testimoniare 
la parabola della Revue du Nord (200-10), rivista romana ma “costola” del Leonardo 
fiorentino, uno dei pit importanti organi per la promozione in Italia degli écrivains du 
nord. 

La seconda sezione del volume rappresenta quella animata da ugualmente solidi 
criteri storico-filologici ma orientata alla disamina dell’aspetto pil squisitamente 
letterario del crepuscolarismo. “Aurora Consurgens”. La fase eroica del 
crepuscolarismo romano (1903-1907), si articola in una parte introduttiva, in cui si 
offrono al lettore importanti coordinate storico-letterarie per |’inquadramento del 
crepuscolarismo romano, e in due parti in cui l’analisi si concentra sulle riviste capitoline 
dichiaratamente crepuscolari (Roma Flamma, Cronache latine, La vita letteraria) e sui 
singoli cenacoli letterari che diedero vita al movimento. 

Un censimento pit dettagliato ed esaustivo del crepuscolarismo romano emerge 
dallo spoglio delle riviste romane, insieme alla ricognizione dei dedicatari dei volumi o 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 525 


delle singole poesie di Corazzini, e alla rilettura di memoriali dell’epoca (e tra questi, 
grande rilevanza viene concessa a Si sbarca a New York di Fausto Maria Martini, 1931). I 
criteri utilizzati da Angela Ida Villa possono considerarsi iper-inclusivi, visto che per sua 
esplicita dichiarazione il censimento crepuscolare accoglie anche poeti i cui contributi 
furono pubblicati solo in sede di rivista e il cui percorso letterario non eccede il limite 
cronologico preposto alla ricerca. II risultato consiste nel considerevole aumento della 
membership crepuscolare romana. 

L’affermazione generale secondo la quale “i crepuscolari romani si rivelano fautori 
del neoidealismo mistico nel pensiero, del neomisticismo simbolista in poesia, del 
nazionalismo o del panlatinismo in politica” (259), viene successivamente passata al 
vaglio dell’evidenza documentaria. Lo spoglio delle riviste lascia emergere una realta pi 
complessa, ricca di fermenti e, soprattutto, tesa alla costruzione di occasioni di dialogo 
con poeti affini provenienti da ambienti diversi, come ad esempio sta a testimoniare la 
vicenda della rivista Roma Flamma, nata dagli sforzi congiunti di Corazzini e Govoni ma 
ugualmente destinata a una rapida estinzione. 

In maniera speculare alle parabole delle riviste romane, Angela Ida Villa ricostruisce 
le dinamiche interne alla costituzione e espansione dei tre cenacoli cittadini, afferenti al 
crepuscolarismo. L’affresco del cenacolo corazziniano pone al centro, come d’obbligo, la 
figura del carismatico ventunenne, tracciando in chiaroscuro i legami che saldano i poeti 
al capo spirituale. E di questi poeti viene offerta una nota biografica e un commento delle 
poesie (e della pubblicistica) pit significative. Tale schema viene reiterato per la 
descrizione dei cenacoli di Via Principe Amedeo (611-74), fautori del simbolismo 
poetico, e quello dei “rivoluzionari” (675-834), corifei di una rinascenza elleno-latina di 
marca irrazionalista — e per questo di segno opposto al neoclassicismo proposto dal De 
Gubernatis — attorno al quale gravitd la figura di Federico de Maria. 

A conclusione del volume, una appendice in cui sono raccolte alcune lettere dei 
protagonisti della vita letteraria capitolina indirizzate a Angelo De Gubernatis rende 
visibile la chiave di lettura che anima Neoidealismo e rinascenza latina. Vale a dire, la 
volonta di restituire al lettore di fine secolo un affresco della Roma letteraria dei primi 
anni del Novecento in cui l’importanza di Sergio Corazzini viene ridimensionata dalla 
messa in risalto di altrettanto rimarchevoli protagonisti. Per questo motivo, la ricchezza di 
notizie bio-bibliografiche, l’ingente messe di documenti (sia poetici che ideologici) — a 
disposizione del lettore grazie a generosissime citazioni — rende la perlustrazione del 
crepuscolarismo romano di Angela Ida Villa uno strumento bibliografico di grande 
importanza per la comprensione della circolazione delle idee nella Roma, e nell’ Italia, di 
inizio secolo. 

Daniela La Penna, University of Reading 


Francesca Caputo, Sintassi e dialogo nella narrativa di Carlo Dossi, Studi di 
grammatica italiana, Firenze: |’ Accademia della Crusca, 2000. Pp. 236. 

Un secolo di critica su Dossi pud essere ripercorso per rapidi scorci tramite i nomi dei 
curatori delle sue opere. Nella prima meta del Novecento, il protagonista della seconda 
scapigliatura e amico Gian Pietro Lucini cura |’edizione Treves (Milano, 1909-1927); poi 
Carlo Linati, che scopre contemporaneamente le proprie radici lombarde e la letteratura 
irlandese (grazie alle traduzioni di Yeats, Joyce, e altri), é responsabile del volume 
Garzanti del 1944. A Dante Isella, punto centrale della lettura secondo-novecentesca di 


526 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


stampo continiano di Dossi (filologica, linguistica, stilistica), si deve l’edizione Adelphi 
nel 1995, risultato di una costante ricognizione critica: data infatti al 1958 il suo 
fondamentale La lingua e lo stile di Carlo Dossi (Milano: Ricciardi). L’ultimo nome é 
quello di Alberto Arbasino, che, affascinato sin dagli anni Settanta dal calcolato caos 
linguistico dossiano, ha curato la selezione dei testi e ha introdotto il volume antologico 
pubblicato nel 1999 dall’Istituto Poligrafico e Zecca di Stato di Roma. Si delinea 
chiaramente una /inea lombarda novecentesca di lettori, che, riconoscendo in Dossi un 
proprio antenato, si sono fatti promotori ora di nuove edizioni ora di studi della sua 
opera. 

A essere maggiormente indagata é stata finora la componente pit eclatante dello 
stile dossiano, la scoppiettante e onnivora inventiva che conduce a un linguaggio 
narrativo commisto, impuro, provocatoriamente mescidato, realizzato da un appassionato 
compulsatore di dizionari (il Vocabolario usuale tascabile di Antonio Bazzarini, quello 
milanese-italiano di Cherubini), al contempo aperto al recupero degli apporti lessicali, in 
specie dialettali, del parlato e curioso coniatore di neoformazioni individuali. In questo, 
Dossi si pone come imprescindibile momento della genealogia di Lombardi in rivolta 
individuata da Isella (Torino: Einaudi, 1984), i quali, dal teatro dialettale di Maggi nel 
Seicento, agli illuministi del “Caffé” e al Verri della Rinunzia inanzi a notaio al 
Vocabolario della Crusca, giungono fino alla voracita linguistica di Gadda, per il quale la 
ricchezza della lingua deve essere sfruttata, potenziata e ampliata in tutte le possibili 
direzioni: “I doppioni li voglio tutti, per mania di possesso e per cupidigia di ricchezze: e 
voglio anche i triploni, e i quadruploni, sebbene il Re Cattolico non li abbia ancora 
monetati, e tutti 1 sinonimi, usati nelle loro variegate accezioni e sfumature, d’uso 
corrente e d’uso rarissimo.[...] Non esistono né il troppo né il vano, per una lingua” (C. 
E. Gadda, Lingua letteraria e lingua d’uso, 1942, in J viaggi e la morte, Milano: 
Garzanti, 1958, 72). 

Altro aspetto della prosa di Dossi ad aver attirato l’attenzione della critica é 
l'umorismo, spesso posto in relazione con l’intertestualita (vastissima, da bibliomane 
onnivoro) e con i modelli di scrittura, nazionali (Manzoni, Porta) e internazionali 
(Richter, Jean Paul, Sterne). Ancora, sono comparsi studi sulla componente memoriale e 
autobiografica, filtrata dal distaccamento ironico e ambiguo tra autore, figure narratoriali 
e materia narrata. E stata invece poco frequentata, nell’esplorazione di lingua e stile, 
l’analisi della sintassi, assenza da cui sono segnati molti studi di “irregolari linguistici” 
della nostra tradizione, pili attentamente osservati dal punto di vista degli apporti 
lessicali. Tale lacuna della critica dossiana é stata colmata da Francesca Caputo, la cui 
preferenza per gli sperimentatori é testimoniata dalla lunga riflessione sui contemporanei 
Gesualdo Bufalino e Luigi Meneghello, culminata nelle edizioni delle Opere (Bompiani, 
1992 e Rizzoli, 1993-1997). 

Con uno spostamento del fuoco critico sull’Ottocento, la Caputo ha pubblicato ora 
l’esito di un dottorato di ricerca compiuto sotto la guida di Maria Corti: una preziosa 
monografia dedicata alla sintassi e al dialogo nella narrativa di Dossi, due aspetti dello 
stile che la studiosa dimostra essere strettamente correlati con la “smagliante espressivita 
lessicale” dell’ autore. 

Il saggio é bipartito, con le strutture sintattiche nella prima parte, dialogiche nella 
seconda, procede per scansione diacronica, e si fonda su preliminari analisi quantitative e 
Statistiche, di cui danno conto in appendice le tabelle, che offrono sistematicamente, per 
le singole opere, i dati relativi a frequenza e tipologia dei periodi, dei verba dicendi, delle 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 527 


interiezioni e dei turni conversazionali, con suddivisione tra sezioni diegetiche e 
mimetiche. Su queste basi, la Caputo rintraccia una linea di sviluppo delle strategie 
narrative dossiane dall’andamento irregolare, che trova le soluzioni pit originali in alcuni 
testi, tali, per riuscita e originalita, da attrarre gli altri nella loro orbita. 

Per quanto riguarda la sintassi, dalle impennate di complessita rappresentate 
dall’Artrieri (1868) si passa alla medieta della Colonia felice (1874), poi alla ripresa di 
vivacita della Desinenza in A (1878) e infine all’andamento classicheggiante degli Amori 
(1887). Due le principali invarianti nell’articolazione dei periodi, improntati comunque 
alla laboriosita: il gioco combinatorio, teso a sottolineare rapidi e inattesi mutamenti di 
prospettiva grazie all’accostamento di segmenti lunghi e brevi, lineari e involuti, frasi 
nominali e fortemente ipotattiche ad alta concentrazione verbale, interrotte da numerosi 
incisi, e le strutture di tipo elencativo, realizzate in prevalenza tramite sequenze 
paratattiche, spesso rette da anafora ordinante, o nominali, pit nervose, che procedono in 
parallelo con I’articolazione narrativa tipicamente dossiana in forma di elenco (di ricordi, 
sensazioni, tipi umani). 

L’analisi conferma l’originalita della posizione di Dossi nel quadro della narrativa 
postunitaria, che vede gli epigoni di Manzoni diluire la “difficile semplicita” del maestro 
senza coglierne il “midollo umoristico” dello stile (Cantu, Carcano, De Amicis, Bersezio, 
insieme a Verga, Farina, sono oggetto di taglienti giudizi nello zibaldone delle Note 
azzurre), e gli scapigliati intenti in una rivoluzione che, dal punto di vista stilistico, si 
perde in mille rivoli senza approdare a risultati duraturi. Dossi si ribella al modello del 
periodare complesso e ipotattico di stampo boccacciano e importa dalla pil scattante e 
spezzettata prosa francese il modello della frase coupée, ma allo stesso tempo, 
sull’esempio dell’equilibrio manzoniano, mantiene un’organizzazione complessa dei 
periodi, che recupera la razionalita della catena sintattica appena prima che il lettore si 
perda definitivamente nei ben orchestrati labirinti. 

Tutto cid, come fu notato, se pur in negativo, sin dai primi recensori, a beneficio di 
un preciso tipo di lettore, un aristocratico pari grado dell’autore, del quale viene ricercata 
non l’adesione emotiva ma la complicita intellettuale. Con la consueta e lucida 
autoanalisi, Dossi nota nel Margine alla Desinenza in A: “Uno stile che fosse una rotaja 
inoliata sarebbe la perdizione de’ libri miéi. Uno invece a viluppi, ad intoppi, a tranelli, 
obbligando il lettore a procéder guardingo e a sostare di tempo in tempo, [...] segnala 
cose che una lettura veloce nasconderebbe” (Opere, Milano: Adelphi, 1995, 680). 

La ricerca di una complessita sintattica all’insegna dell’eccezionalita, che pure tende 
nel lungo periodo alla normalizzazione, presenta fondamentali analogie con |’evoluzione 
del lessico, della grafia (spesso etimologica e latineggiante, secondo il modello di 
Giovanni Gherardini), del sistema degli accenti (sempre indicati nelle sdrucciole, fino 
all’accoglimento della proposta di riforma di Carlo Cattaneo), dei segni di interpunzione 
(inventati, come la doppia virgola, o importati dallo spagnolo, come il punto esclamativo 
e interrogativo rovesciati). Tutto concorre allo stesso processo innovativo, indirizzato alla 
sfida continua del lettore, che ci mostra un Dossi intellettuale pienamente calato nei 
dibattiti del suo tempo. Secondo le teorie estetiche di matrice positivistica espressamente 
citate da Dossi (e con il costante ricorso al trattato The Analysis of Beauty del pittore 
Hogarth, del 1735), il piacere della mente é fisiologicamente potenziato dal superamento 
della difficolta, che produce un maggiore afflusso di sangue al cervello; di conseguenza il 
lettore, incessantemente stimolato da una prosa irta, spezzettata e irregolare, non potra 
che trarre godimento da una ardua lettura. Sempre da Hogarth, giunge a Dossi la 


528  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


definizione della bellezza come linea non retta, bensi serpentina, alla quale, nelle forme 
della digressione narrativa cosi come nei continui scarti lessicali e sintattici, € improntata 
la sua opera (163). 

La seconda parte del saggio é incentrata sull’analisi dei rapporti testuali tra autore e 
narratore, tra narratore e personaggi, e dello spazio concesso alle voci di questi ultimi, 
rapporti particolarmente rilevanti nel caso di uno scrittore il cui profondo 
autobiografismo si esprime secondo le due direttrici “lirico-espressiva” e “riflessivo- 
critica-didascalica”, diversamente presenti nella successione delle opere (173). 
Nell’Artrieri domina un narratore omodiegetico che riassorbe al proprio punto di vista le 
altre voci del testo, con un equilibrio tra componenti liriche e critiche che non si ripetera 
in seguito. La distanza dalle tessere autobiografiche aumenta nella Vita di Alberto Pisani, 
dove predomina un narratore eterodiegetico lucido e tagliente nei confronti del suo alter 
ego protagonista. Nella Desinenza in A, la dialettica tra io narrante maturo e ingenuo io 
narrato si limita ad alcuni capitoli, ma nelle scene centrali la figura autoriale si sdoppia 
nel distaccato narratore omodiegetico e in una sua seconda proiezione, |’amico “buono” 
Nino Fiore. Con Amori, infine, si ritorna a un narratore in prima persona, ma stavolta 
rapito nella dimensione sentimentale del ricordo e privo della dimensione autoironica e 
sarcastica. “E in parallelo” rimarca la Caputo “si acquieta la scrittura, racchiusa tra la 
dimensione dell’evocazione e quella dell’enumerazione” (176). 

Nonostante la forte predominanza dell’io (narrante e narrato), il ruolo dei personaggi 
e delle loro parole si rivela fondamentale. La critica alla societa é realizzata grazie allo 
scontro tra i linguaggi sociali, attraverso i quali Dossi cerca di tipizzare alcune categorie 
umane, con un interesse non per lo stile individuale del personaggio ma per i gerghi, 
definiti “lo stile delle classi” (Nota azzurra n.2235). A essere presa di mira sono 
soprattutto le forme comunicative ambigue, vuote, false, adottate dalle classi sociali pil 
alte, mosse da arrivismo, avidita, ricerca del successo, rappresentanti di un modus vivendi 
fondato sull’apparire. Come osserva in chiusura la Caputo, la forza della pagina dossiana 
risiede proprio in questa graffiante e acuta pars destruens, espressione di un “animus, 
[...] seppur non accompagnato dalla implacabile lucidita verghiana, profondamente 
conservatore e pessimista” (181). Contro la lettura di Isella, che ha visto negli Amori il 
culmine del processo di riassorbimento dei precedenti eccessi espressionistici, la studiosa 
non riconosce risultati altrettanto alti nella pars construens rappresentata dall’ultima 
opera (e gia dall’intermezzo “positivo” e moraleggiante del Regno dei cieli e della 
Colonia felice), interpretata invece come imposizione finale di una_prospettiva 
sentimentale banalizzante pit che normalizzante, in uno scrittore al quale pero la retorica 
della bonta non risulta congeniale sotto il profilo contenutistico, cosi come i modi della 
medieta non lo sono sotto quello stilistico. 

Gigliola Sulis, The University of Reading 


Enrico Cesaretti. Castelli di carta. Retorica della dimora tra Scapigliatura e 
Surrealismo. Temi e profili del Novecento 4. Ravenna: Longo, 2001. Pp. 160. 

Questo bello studio di Enrico Cesaretti mi ha colpito innanzi tutto come un importante 
contributo ad una rilettura della Scapigliatura in un contesto di pit ampio respiro. Come 
spiega |’autore nell’ introduzione, questo lavoro si basa sul concetto e sull’immagine della 
dimora — vero e proprio incrocio semantico da cui si dipartono molteplici sentieri 
interpretativi. Cesaretti prende il via dall’esame della dimora letteraria come 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 529 


rispecchiamento dei principi strutturali ed organizzativi della narrativa stessa, per poi 
allargarsi ad interpretazioni sempre pid interdisciplinari, che vanno dall’analisi del 
simbolismo, alla psicanalisi, alla filosofia, alla storia culturale. La scelta di delimitare 
temporalmente il lavoro tra Scapigliatura e Surrealismo é nata non solo da considerazioni 
pratiche ma anche da necessita funzionali, insite nel concetto stesso di dimora: owvero il 
passare dal trattamento dello spazio nella narrativa all’indagine parallela del concetto di 
unheimlich. Unheimlich (solitamente quanto insufficientemente tradotto in inglese come 
uncanny) € un termine ben noto agli studiosi del fantastico la cui etimologia, come nota il 
Cesaretti a pagina otto, lo collega semanticamente al concetto di dimora (da Heim, casa), 
in senso antitetico sia a heimlich (tranquillo, confortevole) che a heimisch (patrio, nativo). 
Altro esempio, mi sia permesso notare, di intraducibilta del tedesco, unheimlich presenta 
una costellazione di significati che vanno dal “perturbante” di freudiana memoria allo 
“spaesamento” di Todorov. In questo senso la coppia dimora / unheimlich diventa chiave 
interpretativa privilegiata per lo studio del Cesaretti, la cui prima parte potrebbe venir 
ribattezzata una “Topologia dell’unheimlich”, dal momento che si sofferma su 
un’indagine di “quali eventi o circostanze possono contribuire a rendere un determinato 
luogo, una dimora ‘unheimlich’” (8). Estendendo la sua ricerca dall’accezione spaziale a 
quella interdisciplinare, Cesaretti mostra via via che, se é vero che la “dimora letteraria” é 
ancora un luogo rassicurante per buona parte dell’Ottocento, essa si fa via via sempre pit 
unheimlich a partire dalla fine del XIX e durante il XX secolo — portando tuttavia con sé 
parallelamente una controcorrente nostalgica (la “dimora sommersa”), un certo bisogno 
di tornare al senso di familiarita e di plenitudine rappresentato dall’heimlich. Accanto a 
questi due elementi, il lavoro in esame si sofferma anche sugli aspetti pit “materiali’”, 
siano essi di natura architettonica piuttosto che ideologica, relativi allo studio del 
concetto di dimora. Cesaretti invita poi il lettore a tenere presente |’ambivalenza che é 
alla base del lavoro stesso, in altre parole il fatto che il concetto di dimora funge sia da 
metafora sia da tema nelle opere prese in esame (cosa che non sarebbe successa se 
l’autore avesse scelto di svolgere una ricerca sul concetto di “casa”, termine assai meno 
ricco di valenze semantiche). Per quanto riguarda la metodologia scelta nello svolgere la 
ricerca, lo studioso preferisce parlare di un “mirato eclettismo” che “atting[e] a pit fonti a 
seconda delle circostanze” (10). 

Lo studio di Cesaretti si suddivide in quattro capitoli. Il primo, “Dissacrazioni 
scapigliate”, si apre con alcune pagine introduttive, motivanti la scelta della Scapigliatura 
come punto di partenza dell’analisi, in cui lo studioso offre un efficace ritratto dell’ Italia 
unificata come nuova dimora dello “spaesamento” degli artisti. In questo capitolo lo 
studioso analizza i punti di contatto tra la Scapigliatura ed i movimenti letterari del primo 
Novecento, in particolare il Simbolismo e le avanguardie. Le opere letterarie prese in 
esame in questo capitolo sono le Memorie del presbiterio di Emilio Praga e Roberto 
Sacchetti e La desinenza in A di Carlo Dossi (di cui Cesaretti analizza in particolare il 
capitolo intitolato “In monastero”), cui fanno seguito, nell’ultima sezione del capitolo, 
Confessione postuma di Remigio Zena, Una nobile follia di I. U. Tarchetti e La contrada 
dei gatti di Achille Cagna — opera questa che, essendo stata pubblicata nel 1924, proietta 
lanalisi della retorica della dimora nel XX secolo. Di particolar pregio ci é parsa la 
discussione della Unheimlichkeit della stanza di Umberto D., protagonista di Una nobile 
follia. 

Il capitolo successivo, “Verso le avanguardie”, si sofferma in particolare su una fase 
nella storia del cammino letterario verso il moderno in cui si fanno pid evidenti negli 


530 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


artisti due tendenze contrapposte, di cui il Cesaretti offre una interpretazione 
“spazializzata”: “il progresso come il momento dinamico, di fuga, di rottura, di 
trasgressione, e la ‘decadenza’, al contrario, come il momento statico, il ritorno al ‘nido’” 
(63). Partendo da G. P. Lucini come trait d’union tra Scapigliatura e Futurismo, lo 
studioso prende quindi in esame Luigi Gualdo come secondo trait d’union, questa volta 
tra la Scapigliatura e le atmosfere simboliste-decadenti della fine del secolo e la narrativa 
del XX secolo (66), soffermandosi in particolare sui riferimenti spaziali e sugli interni 
descritti in alcuni racconti, quali Narcisa e La canzone di Weber, e soprattutto nel 
romanzo Decadenza. II capitolo si conclude con una bella discussione del Piacere di 
Gabriele d’Annunzio come “dimora della perdita” — perdita dell’amore da parte del 
protagonista, scandita a sua volta dalla perdita di aura degli innumerevoli oggetti ed 
ambienti che avevano fatto da dimora a tale amore (79). L’analisi di Cesaretti mette in 
luce una “drammatica alternanza di ‘riempimenti’ e di ‘svuotamenti’ degli spazi 
fondamentali del romanzo” che culmina con la totale assenza nelle pagine finali (78). 

Il terzo capitolo, dal titolo “Demolizioni e ricostruzioni futuriste”, si apre con alcune 
osservazioni metodologiche con cui l’autore precisa |’obiettivo di questa sezione del suo 
lavoro: mostrare che, nonostante tutto, anche nella retorica futurista del “movimento 
aggressivo, |’insonnia febbrile, il passo di corsa” si possono riscontrare “i segni relativi 
ad un immaginario della ‘dimora’” (81). Dopo alcune pagine che fanno da supporto 
filosofico al concetto di dimora futurista, segue un’approfondita analisi di tale concetto 
nel contesto della poesia futurista — con particolare attenzione a Maeterlinck, Ginanni e 
Marinetti — includendo notazioni sull’architettura e la retorica della “nuova casa 
italiana” (99). Il quarto ed ultimo capitolo, “Surrealismo e dintorni”, prende il via da 
alcune riflessioni sull’applicabilita del termine “Surrealismo” nella letteratura italiana; 
esso pud dirsi esistente in quanto “viene ad indicare un periodo, pid o meno dagli anni 
Venti ai Quaranta, e tutta una complessa area letteraria in cui vengono a coagularsi le 
tendenze ‘iperreali’” di numerosi scrittori, ed in particolare della loro inclinazione “alla 
sperimentazione di diversi aspetti del ‘fantastico’” (104). Cesaretti definisce quindi le 
coordinate del Surrealismo italiano in modo tale da significare sia il completamento di 
certi aspetti della Scapigliatura, sia lo sviluppo ulteriore dell’ unheimlich. L’impronta di 
questo capitolo ¢é schiettamente interdisciplinare, con incursioni nei  dibattiti 
sull’architettura e la pittura negli anni tra le due guerre — periodo in cui dimora ed 
unheimlich diventano elementi predominanti di tanta produzione artistica. Dal punto di 
vista pill strettamente letterario, lo studioso si sofferma su due autori: Alberto Savinio, di 
cui esamina Hermaphrodito e La casa ispirata basandosi sull’utilizzo delle metafore del 
“costruire” e del “nomadismo”, e Tommaso Landolfi, di cui presenta una lettura del 
Racconto d’autunno — opera in cui il concetto di dimora si presenta nella sua 
“incarnazione” di corpo femminile. Una breve conclusione in cui l’autore tira le somme 
della propria indagine termina questo bell’excursus sulle dimore letterarie, opera che per 
ampiezza di respiro e ricchezza di riferimenti si presta naturalmente a ripetute e fruttuose, 
nonché piacevoli, riletture. 

Cinzia Di Giulio, Merrimack College 


Rimanelliana. Studi su Giose Rimanelli / Studies on Giose Rimanelli, a cura di 
Sebastiano Martelli, Stony Brook, Forum Italicum (Filibrary Series 8), 2000. 
Edizione miscellanea in lingua inglese e italiana, pubblicata dal “Center for Italian 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 531 


Studies” della State University of New York a Stony Brook, su Giose Rimanelli, nato nel 
1925 e autore di un’opera letteraria originale e notevole in italiano e inglese, che 
comprende vari generi (prosa, teatro, poesia e saggio), pubblicata soprattutto dagli anni 
’60 e ’70. Rimanelli svolse anche un’intensa attivita come giornalista, in primo luogo in 
Italia e pit tardi nel Canada (ne “II cittadino canadese” di Montreal), cosi come 
un’ interessante attivita critica della letteratura italiana contemporanea, sempre all’estero, 
e quindi lontano dalle correnti dominanti nell’Italia coeva e dai centri di potere del suo 
paese di origine. Tale attivita si concretd principalmente in una rubrica settimanale sotto 
pseudonimo. Questa tappa della sua carriera letteraria, insieme agli anni trascorsi negli 
Stati Uniti (negli anni ’60 e agli inizi degli anni ’70), quando insegno a New York, Yale, 
Los Angeles, Albany, cosi come nella British Columbia a Vancouver, si chiude con il 
ritorno a casa a meta degli anni ’70, in cerca delle proprie origini. I] suo ritorno, svolto in 
una tappa di forte trasformazione del paese, significd per l’autore lo scontro con il Molise 
natale e con la presenza indubbia del dialetto, che diventd fondamentale nella sua opera 
di intensa originalita, sviluppata alternativamente in italiano, dialetto e inglese, in prosa e 
in poesia, dagli anni ’80 in poi, quando Rimanelli si trasferi a Lowell, Massachussets. 

Il curatore della raccolta di saggi su Rimanelli, Sebastiano Martelli, professore di 
letteratura italiana dell’Universita degli studi di Salerno, apre il volume con un 
interessante saggio sul primo Rimanelli degli anni ’50, mostrando I’ originalita della sua 
opera fin dagli inizi, e il recente recupero della sua figura letteraria, quasi cancellata in 
Italia per anni, in parte per la lontananza dell’autore. I] saggio ¢ una revisione delle 
lacune che nella storia della letteratura italiana si possono constatare a proposito della 
letteratura del Molise, documentando quasi un “caso Rimanelli”, al quale certamente la 
presente edizione contribuisce. Dalla presentazione di Martelli emerge la filiazione di 
Rimanelli nei confronti di autori italiani contemporanei quali Pavese e Tozzi, in un 
approccio originale allo studio della narrativa novecentesca. 

In questa linea di analisi prosegue Eugenio Ragni, professore di letteratura italiana 
presso |’Universita di Roma-III, in un saggio dilatato e molto personale, // mestiere del 
Jurbo. Un suicidio annunciato, che include abbondanti citazioni, ed é accompagnato da 
un’appendice: “Rimanelli getta la maschera di A. G. Solari”; e “Articoli di Giose 
Rimanelli apparsi su ‘Lo Specchio’, aa. 1958-1959”. Lo studio di Ragni si concentra sul 
volume dell’autore dello stesso titolo, Un suicidio annunciato, pubblicato nel 1959, di 
notevole impatto sociale all’epoca per le sue opinioni sulla letteratura italiana 
contemporanea, e presenta un’indubbia volonta di risarcimento dell’autore, non tanto 
sulla sfera personale quanto letteraria. In effetti, Ragni sostiene che dal libro emerge 
un’immagine dell’autore la cui sincerita critica gli costd la cancellazione quasi completa 
dal panorama letterario italiano. 

Mark Pietralunga, professore di letteratura italiana della Florida State University, 
invece, presenta, in lingua inglese, un breve saggio su G. Rimanelli. An Honorary 
Piedmontese, che analizza la corrispondenza dell’autore con Davide Lajolo. Segue una 
breve comunicazione di Giovanni Cecchetti, professore emerito della University of 
California. a Los Angeles, sull’Autobiografia mitografica in Giose Rimanelli 
(inizialmente presentato nel convegno del 1989), in cui tratta dell’urgenza autobiografica 
nell’opera del molisano. 

Sante Matteo, professore di letteratura italiana presso la Miami University di Ohio, 
presenta, nel suo curioso saggio dal titolo Trovatello o Rimanello sul ponte? A quale riva 
arriva e a quale sponda risponde Rimanelli?, un Rimanelli esule ma non “naufragato”, al 


532 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


quale mancano le radici, come vero simbolo della condizione “esule” di tutti noi nel 
mondo contemporaneo. Per conto suo, Sheryl Lynn Postman, della University di 
Massachussets a Lowell, si concentra sulla lettura documentata e approfondita di 
Biglietto di terza (1958), sul viaggio dell’autore nel Canada nel 1953, e conclude 
classificando il volume come autobiografico, e non come prosa di viaggi. L’ultima parte 
del suo saggio, lo studio di Tragica America (“L’odissea rimanelliana per gli Stati 
Uniti”), si trova in una linea di continuita di analisi nei confronti dei previ di autori 
italiani (Soldati, Cecchi, Piovene), evidenziando il carattere non metaforico, ma reale, che 
l’America ha per lui. 

Tra i manoscritti di Rimanelli: nella “Macchina paranoica” l’origine di “Detroit 
Blues”, di Alberto Granese, professore di letteratura italiana dell’ Universita degli Studi di 
Salerno, presenta, nella loro originalita formale e nel loro percorso creativo, (0 
costruzione progressiva), gli esperimenti avanguardistici di Rimanelli negli anni ’60, 
basati sulla creazione letteraria con l’aiuto delle macchine, approdando al metaromanzo e 
segnando la linea di continuita fra, d’una parte, La macchina paranoica e, dall’altra, 
Detroit Blues trenta anni dopo. 

Questo ultimo romanzo, del 1996, é appunto |’oggetto di studio di Luigi Fontanella, 
della State University of New York a Stony Brook, nel suo saggio “Detroit Blues”. 
Ricostruzione (parziale) e lettura. Si tratta di un saggio dedicato alla presentazione 
dell’opera nei suoi temi principali e nell’uso della lingua adottata, il pasticcio italo- 
inglese, che si scopre altamente funzionale nell’affresco generale sia di un’epoca, sia 
nella rappresentazione letteraria della citta Detroit. 

Sempre a proposito di Detroit Blues segue un breve articolo di Franco Betti, della 
University of California a Los Angeles, dal titolo Nota critica su “La stanza grande” e 
“Detroit Blues”, inizialmente pubblicato sulla “Rivista di studi Italiani”, XV, n. 2 (Dic. 
1997). In tale saggio, Betti traccia il percorso poetico e tematico da un volume all’ altro, 
analizzando le differenze e somiglianze esistenti. 

Romana Capek-Habekovic, della University of Michigan, si occupa, in un saggio in 
lingua inglese, dal titolo Texts within the Text: Hermeneutics of the “Fluid” Novel 
‘Benedetta in Guysterland’ for the Jabberwocky Reader, da una prospettiva intertestuale, 
del primo romanzo di Rimanelli in lingua inglese, pubblicato nel 1993 (la cui stesura, 
perd, corrisponde al 1970). Lo stesso romanzo é anche oggetto di studio da parte di 
Anthony Julian Tamburri, in “Benedetta in Guysterland”: Postmodernism (Pre)-visited, 
in un interessante saggio sugli aspetti testuali di quest’opera e della sua struttura, la quale 
lavvicina al romanzo postmoderno, coinvolgendo il lettore nella co-produzione dei 
significati testuali. 

Fred L. Gardaphé, professore di italiano della State University of New York a Stony 
Brook, nel suo Giose “The Trickster” Rimanelli’s Great Italian/American Parody, 
inizialmente pubblicato in Italian Signs, American Streets: The Evolution of Italian 
American Narrative dello stesso autore (Duke UP), riprende lo studio di Benedetta in 
Guysterland evidenziando, d’una parte, la sua posizione-ponte nella narrativa italo- 
americana, e, dall’altra, il suo collocamento a mezza strada fra modernismo e 
postmodernismo. 

Mark Axelrod, professore di letteratura comparata presso la Chapman University, in 
un breve saggio dal titolo From “Alien Cantica” to “Dirige Me Domine”. The Biblical 
Dimension in Rimanelli’s Latest Work, offre le chiavi di lettura dell’ultima produzione 
poetica rimanelliana, evidenziando un aspetto dell’opera del molisano che affascina il 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 533 


critico, e cioé la capacita creativa in due lingue (italiano e inglese). 

Lo stesso Giose Rimanelli partecipa in questa miscellanea con una breve 
presentazione de // mazzetto accademico, che si compone di quattro saggi sul romanzo 
inedito Gli accademici (1980). Seguono Heaven & Hell (Synopsis) e A Surgical Survey of 
a Center of Learning, ambuedue in lingua inglese. D’altra parte, Anaconda, oggi Gli 
accademici, & anche l’oggetto di studio di Rafael Bosch, professore di spagnolo della 
State University of New York a Albany, in The Surprising Style of “Anaconda", un 
saggio che mette di rilievo la combinazione fra il materiale autobiografico e finzionale. 
La lettura di Accademia occupa una breve nota del critico letterario Franco Valobra, An 
Absolutely New Novel, raccolta per l’occasione. La stessa cosa vale per A Quest of Love, 
di Gianni Cecchetti, che si occupa invece di Anaconda. 

L’America di mio padre, di Maria Rosaria Vitti-Alexander, professoressa di lingua e 
letteratura italiana del Nazareth College, analizza l’opera di Rimanelli partendo dalla tesi 
del costante cordone ombelicale che lo riporta al padre, quale mito personale ricorrente 
nell’autore, legato al Molise. Del resto, il Molise e le radici dell’autore sono anche alla 
base del saggio di Dante Maffia, poeta e critico letterario, ne // Molise come “voce” del 
profondo. Luigi Bonaffini, professore di lingua e letteratura italiana al Brooklyn College, 
analizza in un lungo saggio dal titolo Rimanelli e la poesia dialettale in America l\a 
produzione poetica dell’autore, e particolarmente Moliseide (1992), inserendola nella 
coeva produzione dialettale in Italia. 

Il volume miscellaneo si chiude con un’utile e completa bibliografia dell’autore e 
sull’autore, a cura di Paolo Giordano, della Loyola University di Chicago. Tale 
bibliografia comprende l’opera in prosa e poesia e |’opera saggistica, cosi come le 
traduzioni, le prefazioni e rassegne di Rimanelli; e, in senso contrario, i saggi sull’opera 
di Rimanelli, comprese persino le tesi di laurea. 

Rimanelliana si offre al lettore, particolarmente universitario, come un invito alla 
lettura di Giose Rimanelli, e un’opportuna revisione della sua opera, silenziata il pit delle 
volte in Italia, nonostante la sua validita e attualita. 

Assumpta Camps, Universita di Barcellona 


Reflexivity. Critical Themes in the Italian Cultural Tradition. Essays by Members of 
the Department of Italian at the University College London, a cura di Prue Shaw and 
John London, Ravenna, Longo Editore (II Portico. Biblioteca di Lettere e Arti, 119), 
2000. 

Questo libro raccoglie saggi originali, scritti principalmente in lingua inglese, dei vari 
membri del Dipartimento di Italiano della University College, London, uno dei pit attivi 
in Inghilterra, sotto la direzione di Anna Laura Lepschy dal 1983 al 1999. 

Il volume, che cerca di sfuggire alla classifica di miscellanea, si articola intorno alla 
riflessivita, come suggerisce il titolo, 0, se vogliamo, al carattere “meta” di ogni 
intervento critico, il quale coinvolge sempre un processo di interpretazione, visto in una 
doppia prospettiva che comprende il “filtro critico che fa emergere il processo per cui la 
mente riflette sulla stessa attivita” (copertina). 

Il volume si presenta seguendo un ordine cronologico inverso, dall’argomento piu 
recente al pid lontano nel tempo, in un percorso che va dagli anni ’60 del secolo scorso 
fino a Cino da Pistoia. In esso si tratta una pluralita di temi: dalla letteratura al cinema, 
dall’arte alla linguistica, dalla poetica alla bibliografia, il che, nonostante le pretese dei 


534  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


curatori, non sempre favorisce |’unita del libro. 

Alla breve presentazione dei curatori in lingua inglese, segue il saggio, sempre in 
inglese, di John Foot, La gente e il buon costume: Lucchino Visconti’s “Rocco e i suoi 
fratelli”. Censorship and the Left in Italy, 1960-1961, a proposito del film di L. Visconti, 
che studia I’Italia degli anni ’60 e il dibattito intorno alla censura in questo caso concreto. 
D’altra parte, Robert Lumley, nel suo American Influences in the Visual Arts in Italy in 
the 1960s, analizza le reazioni alla Pop Art in Europa e America, e |’influsso che essa ha 
avuto sulle idee estetiche, e persino sulla percezione artistica posteriore. John Dickie, 
invece, in Reflections on Literary Myths of Sicily in the Wake of the “caso Sciascia”, lo 
scrittore che fu fra i massimi esponenti della seconda meta del Novecento in Sicilia, si 
concentra su Leonardo Sciascia. Emmanuella Tandello prosegue nello studio della 
letteratura novecentesca con il suo interessante saggio su Giacomo Noventa, Heine, and 
the Language of Poetry, nel quale analizza le idee poetiche di Noventa e la sua lingua 
poetica, cosi come si presentano nella sua opera in versi. Anna Laura Lepschy, per conto 
suo, propone un’analisi non solo dei rapporti esistenti fra Pirandello e Verga, ma anche 
della posizione del primo nei confronti del Fascismo in Pirandello’s Verga. 

Oltre a curare il libro, Prue Shaw intraprende nel suo saggio The International 
Fallacy and Benedetto Croce un ridimensionamento delle posizioni critiche 
dell’““American New Cristicism” nei confronti dell’estetica crociana e delle intenzioni di 
Croce. Segue il saggio in collaborazione di Giulio Lepschy e Helena Sanson dal titolo 
Native Speaker che analizza il concetto di “native speaker” all’inizio del secolo scorso, 
allo scopo di ridefinire un elemento importante della teoria linguistica e delle idee sulla 
lingua all’epoca. 

Enrico Palandri, nel saggio in lingua italiana (unico in tutto il volume), dal titolo 
L’individuo romantico, presenta uno studio sull’individualita romantica e il criterio di 
verita artistica. Segue poi |’interessante saggio di John Lindon, Foscolo as a Literary 
Critic, che approfondisce una parte di solito abbastanza negletta e anche se determinante 
dell’opera foscoliana. Seguendo sempre questo percorso cronologico a rovescio, Dilwyn 
Knox analizza in An Arm and a Leg: Giordano Bruno and Alessandro Citolini in 
Elisabethan London, un episodio della corrispondenza fra il figlio di Citolini, Paolo, e 
Walshingham. Questo episodio evidenzia il rapporto esistente fra Citolini e Giordano 
Bruno. Nella stessa linea, Giovanni Aquilecchia approfondisce lo studio della poetica di 
G. Bruno analizzando il concetto bruniano di “impresa” in Yet Another Aspect of Bruno’s 
“Poetics”: The Conception of the “Poetic Impresa”. La poetica é anche al centro del 
saggio che segue, Cino da Pistoia and the Poetics of Sweet Subversion, di John Took, nel 
quale esamina la poetica sowversiva di Cino da Pistoia e il suo rifacimento del “dolce stil 
nuovo”. 

Il volume si chiude con un utilissimo e documentato saggio bibliografico che prende 
in considerazione lo sviluppo dei criteri della descrizione bibliografica sul piano “meta” o 
riflessivo. Come tutte le bibliografie veramente utili, si tratta di una bibliografia 
commentata e ragionata. Nel suo complesso, il volume é interessante e ben curato, 
nonostante il carattere alquanto miscellaneo che gli stessi curatori hanno cercato di 
superare. 

Assumpta Camps, Universita di Barcellona 


Luciano Parisi. Borgese. Torino: Tirrenia Stampatori, 2000. Pp. 96. 
Il libro di Luciano Parisi é costituito da saggi pubblicati in varie riviste tra il 1995 e il 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 535 


1999, ma concepiti secondo uno schema unitario. Lo scopo di questa raccolta é di dare 
un’idea generale della produzione letteraria pit significativa di Borgese, tralasciando la 
sua attivita di traduttore (peraltro abbastanza limitata) e una pit approfondita discussione 
sulla biografia. Lo studio di Parisi vuole evidenziare le “permanenze, evoluzioni e 
involuzioni” (9) della produzione letteraria borgesiana, le influenze culturali e i temi che 
la caratterizzano. 

Il primo capitolo é@ dedicato alla critica letteraria di Borgese, definita una 
“permanenza” (9) in quanto é I’unica attivita a cui lo scrittore siciliano si sia applicato 
con continuita dal 1903 fino alla morte. Parisi intende dimostrare |’importanza e la 
superiorita della critica militante di Borgese (articoli sul Corriere della Sera o sulla 
Stampa su opere contemporanee ancora prive di una vera tradizione critica) rispetto alla 
critica accademica dello stesso. Lo studioso concorda con altri nel giudicare il lavoro 
accademico di Borgese eccessivamente schematico, soprattutto quando |’autore, trattando 
un periodo di storia letteraria, si sente in dovere di presentare ampie costruzioni 
intellettuali. Nel breve spazio consentito dai saggi militanti, invece, Borgese si rivela 
lettore attento, capace di cogliere il nucleo sentimentale e stilistico di ogni opera. In essi, 
dunque, si esprime la critica migliore dello scrittore siciliano: “seria, articolata, coerente” 
(23), derivata da Croce ma libera da impacci di scuola e capace di brillare per intuito 
estetico e simpatia interpretativa. Parisi individua giustamente, nel rapporto con Croce e 
in una naturale predisposizione all’interpretazione delle opere letterarie, la base 
fondamentale della critica borgesiana. Pur applicando l’estetica crociana nel proprio 
lavoro di critico, Borgese |’attacca negli scritti teorici. Analizzando la relazione con 
Croce, Parisi individua acutamente le incoerenze e le debolezze della teoria letteraria di 
Borgese, concludendo che le cause dell’attacco al filosofo sono “extraletterarie e solo in 
parte documentabili” (21). 

Nel secondo capitolo Parisi afferma |’attualita della riflessione borgesiana su 
Manzoni e identifica, nell’evoluzione dei giudizi di Borgese sull’opera manzoniana, un 
riflesso dello sviluppo spirituale dell’autore. Lo studioso osserva che nella Storia della 
critica romantica in Italia Borgese definisce il rapporto di Manzoni con il classicismo e 
trae conclusioni molto calibrate, poi riprese dalla tradizione critica. In seguito, i testi 
scritti dal 1905 al 1914 rivelano invece una certa simpatia per il superomismo, al quale 
Borgese associa lo stesso Manzoni, fornendo un’interpretazione forzata e prometeica dei 
Promessi Sposi e arrivando ad auspicare |’intervento dell’Italia in guerra, per asserire il 
trionfo di un cristianesimo “combattente” e il volere supremo della Provvidenza. Rubé 
rappresenta, secondo Parisi, una svolta nell’evoluzione spirituale di Borgese, di cui fanno 
prova i riferimenti — impliciti ed espliciti — a Manzoni: i valori morali esaltati nel 
romanzo sono infatti quelli cristiani dell’amore, dell’onesta e dell’umilta che il 
protagonista non riesce a vivere, ma che sono vicini al pil autentico spirito manzoniano. 
E soprattutto nella Recensione ai ‘Promessi Sposi’, pubblicata nel 1923, che Borgese 
corregge la propria interpretazione manzoniana, offrendo un importante contributo alla 
conoscenza dello scrittore milanese e chiarendo il valore di stacco della conversione e la 
natura dell’anticlassicismo manzoniano. Goliath, scritto fra il 1935 e il °37, rappresenta 
secondo Parisi la continuazione della riflessione borgesiana su Manzoni: in esso |’autore 
siciliano riconosce uno dei pochi intellettuali italiani immuni da una malsana aspirazione 
al titanismo, fonte di un irrimediabile complesso di inferiorita e, conseguentemente, di 
scelte tragiche per la nazione. Particolarmente interessante, infine, é il confronto proposto 
da Parisi tra la religiosita manzoniana e quella non confessionale di Borgese che, durante 


536 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


il soggiorno americano del critico, trovd applicazione empirica nell’attivita politica. Dallo 
studio calibrato del 1905 all’assurda assimilazione di Manzoni alla cultura nietzschiana 
del 1914, al “pentimento” rappresentato, nel ’21, dal romanzo Rubé, Parisi dimostra che 
l’approccio critico di Borgese a Manzoni rispecchia la parallela evoluzione morale dello 
scrittore siciliano. 

Convincente e assai fine, nel terzo capitolo, é l’analisi dei romanzi scritti fra il 1921 
e il °31, dei quali Parisi evidenzia la tematica religiosa. Rubé rappresenterebbe, secondo 
Parisi, la scoperta della dimensione religiosa e il bisogno insoddisfatto di un rapporto con 
il trascendente, in una tragica mescolanza di senso del peccato e aspirazioni alla 
redenzione. L’interscambiabilita tra orgoglio morale e sociale, nel tormentato 
protagonista, denuncia un bisogno di coerenza e perfezione nel quale va riconosciuta 
l’intima onesta di Rubé. / vivi e i morti racconta l’esperienza mistica di Eliseo Gaddi che 
non sarebbe, secondo Parisi, un inetto come molti critici vorrebbero, ma un personaggio 
ricco di doti spirituali, le cui incertezze sono il segno di una vocazione profonda e di una 
coerente scelta di vita. Proponendo un utile confronto con altri scrittori italiani che negli 
anni ’20 riscoprono la religione (da Cecchi a Palazzeschi a Papini), Parisi conclude che 
’isolamento spirituale di Borgese nella cultura italiana di quel tempo e la sua 
conseguente mancanza di riferimenti nel trattare temi religiosi contribuiscono all’esito 
fallimentare del romanzo. Tempesta nel nulla parla di un’esperienza mistica vissuta a 
livello intuitivo e rivelativo ma anche qui, osserva Parisi, la ricerca religiosa resta in 
qualche modo incompiuta e si esprime, a tratti, con una certa goffaggine. La narrativa di 
Borgese ¢€ caratterizzata, secondo lo studioso, da un tentativo di approfondimento 
spirituale che, nel complesso, non da il senso di una vera crescita ma “si risolve in 
intravvedimenti troppo impegnativi per essere sostenuti a lungo” (57). 

Il capitolo quarto é dedicato ai libri di viaggio: se quelli scritti nel 1909 e nel ’20 
propongono una serie di pregiudizi e luoghi comuni sui paesi stranieri, le opere composte 
in seguito mostrano, secondo Parisi, il lento svilupparsi in Borgese di una nuova, cordiale 
attitudine verso il mondo. Escursione in terre nuove (1931), con il suo elogio del paese e 
del popolo inglesi, segnerebbe il passaggio di Borgese a una genuina disponibilita nei 
confronti del diverso, mentre l’ultimo libro di viaggi (Atlante americano, 1936) 
rappresenterebbe la liberazione di Borgese dal superomismo, la comprensione della 
profonda moralita della normalita e il raggiungimento, finalmente, di una dimensione non 
pit provinciale. L’analisi attenta dei libri di viaggio consente a Parisi di ricostruire 
levoluzione spirituale di Borgese, dal superomismo e nazionalismo giovanili alla 
revisione e al pentimento della maturita. 

L’ultimo capitolo, infine, tratta delle opere politiche di Borgese, nelle quali Parisi 
individua due svolte importanti: quando, dopo la prima guerra mondiale, Borgese 
riconosce gli errori del nazionalismo; e quando, negli Stati Uniti, scopre il valore 
liberatorio di una civilta democratica. Accanto a questa indubbia evoluzione morale dello 
scrittore siciliano, Parisi sottolinea acutamente una sorprendente involuzione. In Goliath, 
The City of Man, Common Cause \’importanza del ruolo delle grandi personalita e degli 
intellettuali nella storia viene esagerata ed @ evidente conseguenza di residui del 
superomismo giovanile di Borgese. Anche la Preliminary Draft of a World Constitution, 
osserva Parisi, pur propugnando idee democratiche che sono ora alla base della civilta 
occidentale, é in fondo l’apologia contradditoria e un po’ dubbia di una democrazia, 
concepita come dono alle masse di un intellettuale geniale. 

La conclusione di Parisi sull’itinerario spirituale di Borgese @ dunque critica, 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 537 


soprattutto per quanto riguarda le oscillazioni dello scrittore siciliano nei confronti di 
tentazioni superomistiche; ma, giustamente, nell’introduzione lo studioso fa notare che 
ogni criticismo va ridimensionato, quando confrontato con |’impegno politico di Borgese 
per una societa migliore e la sua fede genuina nel valore morale e civile della letteratura. 
Privo di una bibliografia complessiva, lo studio di Parisi ¢ comunque aggiornato, 
ricco di note e riferimenti bibliografici elaborati e interessanti. Ammirevoli, soprattutto, 
sono |’approfondimento del rapporto di Borgese con Manzoni e, quindi, dei temi religiosi 
nelle sue opere (aspetti finora alquanto trascurati in sede critica), e il riconoscimento di 
un’involuzione in senso superomistico negli ultimi scritti politici. Concludendo, Parisi ci 
offre un contributo utile e originale per la conoscenza di uno scrittore versatile e dibattuto 
come Giuseppe Antonio Borgese. 
Chiara Fabbian, University of Chicago 


Loredana Polezzi. Translating Travel: Contemporary Italian Travel Writing in 
English Translations. Studies in European Cultural Transition 12. Burlington, VT: 
Ashgate, 2001. 

That the Italian critical establishment along with the country’s principal publishers 
continue to ignore the genre of travel writing in Italian will come as no surprise to those 
who have ever scoured Feltrinelli or Rizzoli looking for the travel narratives section. 
Bruce Chatwin’s Jn Patagonia and Bill Bryson’s The Lost Continent have been 
omnipresent on the floors of the largest Italian bookstores for the past decade as have 
most of the masterpieces of Anglo-American travel writing, whereas Moravia’s A quale 
tribu appartieni and Pasolini’s L’odore dell’India, when available, continally migrate 
across aisles and genre locations. Ms. Polezzi’s fine study of Italian travel narrative and 
the symptomology of their translations into English is an attempt to account for this 
paucity of travel writing in Italian and to finger the usual suspects, Benedetto Croce 
chiefly among them. The result is both “a salutary antidote against the narrow perspective 
of mono-lingual (and tendentially ethnocentric) analysis” (2) and a brief in support of 
Italian travel writing. What is unavailable even as a minor literary genre in the Italian 
canon becomes in Ms. Polezzi’s discussion not only a visible but a viable one when 
translated into the target culture of English. 

Confining herself to the works of Italian travellers to foreign and imaginary lands in 
the period 1945-1989 and the strategies that informed their translation into English, Ms. 
Polezzi urges forward the historical circumstances and consequences of translation of 
works such as Oriana Fallaci’s Vietnam travel memoir Niente e cosi sia and Fosco 
Maraini’s 1951 reportage Segreto Tibet, while making the obligatory visits to Calvino’s 
Invisible Cities and Magris’s Danubio. The chapter “Rewriting Tibet,” easily the longest 
of the study, is an unexpected and welcome analysis of a little-known triad of Italian 
travellers to Tibet (Maraini, Tucci, and Dainelli) and how their works, translated into a 
British context in the 1930s and 1950s, were appropriated by the dominant discourse of 
the British Empire and later the tourist industry. Here as elsewhere Ms. Polezzi is always 
attentive to the domesticating possibilities and assymetry of power that inheres in the 
images and representations constructed by travel writing and translation; her keen 
analysis reveals how each was translated according to the conventions of English travel 
writing and regulated according to imperial interests. 


538  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


The chapters devoted to Fallaci and Calvino, two authors rarely examined together, 
are the most accessible to a wider audience, though Ms. Polezzi’s prose is never idly 
specialist nor does she couch her argument in terms that only a tiny number of Italianists 
planning their next archeaological dig in search of a missing travel genre can decipher. 
Surely her most interesting claim concerns Calvino’s place in a panorama of Italian travel 
writing. Making the paradoxical case that Calvino both appropriated travel in his novels 
for its activation of difference in visual apprehension, while simultaneously inscribing 
himself within a “disembodied” literary history (the helpful term is Giorgio Cardona’s), 
she argues convincingly that Invisible Cities as a distilled travelogue shares very little 
with Anglo-American travel writing. The coordinates for a more sustained reading of 
Calvino as travel writer are to be found instead in his letters and the dispatches, some of 
which are included in Collezione di sabbia. One only wishes she had more to say about 
them. The pages dedicated to Oriana Fallaci’s early travel accounts are similarly bold; the 
impression skillfully hinted at, though never explicitly stated, is that Fallaci is best read in 
English translation despite or precisely because of the strategies and conventions 
regulating Anglo-American travel literature. The intended effect is to force a re- 
evaluation of Fallaci’s early accounts, Niente e cosi sia and Penelope alla guerra chiefly 
among them, though, given the historical reception afforded Fallaci, one wonders how 
likely that will be. 

Ms. Polezzi’s readings of Fallaci, Calvino, and Magris, “individual stories of a series 
of travel texts” (105), form the study’s center and are framed by two more theoretical 
chapters, and a concise conclusion that spells out the stakes of using a target culture to 
actualize the unavailable genre of travel writing. Her approach not surprisingly is deeply 
indebted to Gaddis Rose’s notion of “stereoscopic reading,” especially when the object is 
British reception of marginal Italian texts, and to Theodore Cachey and Luciano 
Formisano’s recent geographies of narrative contact between travel writing and other 
literary forms. Using both to great effect, Ms. Polezzi moves effortlessly between 
translation studies and ideological analysis, while scanning for the regulations that 
circumscribe the reception of source texts and translations. Previous studies of Italian 
travel writing, especially Monica Farnetti’s 1992 Reportages, appear in her judgment to 
be hopelessly compromised by stale binaries (journalistic/literary primarily) and the 
absence of a comparative approach. Her diagnosis of how Italian travel writing has been 
received by cultural elites in Italy is hard to resist: “Reality is still seen as a limitation to 
literary creation,” she remarks early on, “which in turn means that the critics of travel 
literature in contemporary Italy apparently expect neat boundaries to be drawn between 
fact and fiction, description and narration, while at the same time refusing to analyse the 
genre, its forms, its products and its conventions in their historically determined reality” 
(43). 

As tempting as she surely must have been to extend her analysis to even more 
egregious examples of critical blindness, Ms. Polezzi is far more interested in outlining 
the possibilities for a deterritorialized travel writing. Claudio Magris’ postmodern parody 
of Laurence Stern’s A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy is especially 
noteworthy as it showcases the advantages available to writers working on invisible 
genres. Operating in the shadow region between “saggio-romanzo” for an Italian 
readership and “travel writing” for a British one, Danubio/Danube is a hybrid text that 
rarely withholds ambiguity and multiple references from its readers: the network of 
influences running from Sterne and Foscolo to Svevo and a Mitteleuropa ex-centric 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 539 


tradition provides Magris with enormous latitude in adopting a variety of discourses. His 
grotesque travelling narrator, a “maniaco intellettuale,” becomes in Translating Travel an 
almost Poundian relayer of culture, facing the onslaught of modern life and travel through 
the observation of hetereogenous communcations. Here Ms. Polezzi shows quite clearly 
how English translation connects the parts of a missing travel genre, providing a point of 
view that is absent from the Italian narrative frame. Her conclusion some pages later, 
however, offers a thoughtful counterpoint to mere writerly freedom: “In exploiting the 
freedom granted by its marginal status, travel writing has been conservative at least as 
often as it has been adventurous, conformist as much as revolutionary. Similarly, a 
foreign travel text may be allowed greater impunity in its representations of the world, or 
be considered reassuringly easy to dismiss” (212). 

Ms. Polezzi does miss some opportunities. Her quick dismissal of a psychoanalytic 
perspective and her failure to elaborate the Luhmannian insight of second-order 
observation for travel writing make it difficult to locate the kind of communication she 
imagines for a post-travel writing able to forego the hierarchy of Other and traveller. The 
absence of Pasolini is also noteworthy. One wonders what she might have made of The 
Scent of Italy, the English translation of L’odore dell’India, which appeared in 1984. 
Others mentioned, only to be left out, include Flaiano and Malaparte, excluded — one 
presumes — given the chronological limits of the study (though it must be noted that 
these same limits are not strictly respected in the Tibet section). Still, Translating Travel 
is a excellent addition to contemporary work being done on Italian travel writing. Ms. 
Polezzi not only grapples with how to think invisible genres in terms relevant to the 
Italian case, but exploits the possibilities offered by postmodern and post-structuralist 
discourses so as to provide possible solutions. It is a commendable effort. 

Timothy Campbell, Cornell University 


Ruth Ben-Ghiat. La cultura fascista. Bologna: Il Mulino, 2000. 

La cultura fascista & uno di quegli studi fondamentali che, sulla scia del pioneristico 
numero monografico che la Standford Italian Review dedicd nel 1990 al fascismo 
(Fascism and Culture), sta aprendo la strada ad una valutazione pit’ pacata e meno 
ideologicamente investita, nonché strumentale, di quel tormentato periodo della storia 
nazionale che é stato il Ventennio fascista. Partendo dal presupposto che la cultura 
dell’immediato dopoguerra ha operato un’ampia rimozione del Ventennio, Ben-Ghiat 
vuole vedere chiaro in quello che é effettivamente stata la cultura fascista. Questo al di la 
degli scontati cliché che la hanno anche in seguito rappresentata come radicalmente 
diversa da quella repubblicana, nonché intrinsecamente provinciale e obsoleta. Va da sé 
che gli stereotipi appena citati sono stati accettati da numerosi studiosi — spesso italiani 
— senza essere sottoposti ad ulteriore approfondimento o analisi critica. La distanza 
temporale, la morte di molti protagonisti di quel periodo, nonché I’attuale crisi della 
sinistra in Italia, sta consentendo una valutazione pil equilibrata, pit storica e meno 
politica del Ventennio. 

Ma c’é stata un’autentica “cultura fascista”, una pianificazione dall’alto che 
indirizzasse scrittori, riviste, gruppi? C’é stata una riflessione nazionale tesa a incanalare 
le opere degli intellettuali in modo specificamente ideologico? La risposta ¢ — secondo 
la studiosa — indubbiamente positiva. Che poi gli sforzi messi in atto dal Regime non 
abbiano sortito gli effetti desiderati o che vi sia stata comunque ambivalenza e 


540 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


contraddittorieta nei risultati ottenuti é un dato di fatto che non smentisce le chiare 
intenzioni del Regime. Nello studio di Ben-Ghiat un posto centrale occupa il concetto di 
“bonifica’”, che la studiosa propone di utilizzare come chiave interpretativa delle politiche 
fasciste tout court, sia che queste fossero applicate all’agricoltura, agli individui o alla 
cultura stessa. Tale concetto é strettamente collegato ai sentimenti anti-borghesi e 
rivoluzionari che animavano il fascismo delle origini; si associa inoltre ad un lessico 
genetico-sociologico del tipo “rigenerazione individuale e nazionale”, “ingegneria 
sociale”, o “identita etnica”, che la storica ama utilizzare. 

Nei sei capitoli che compongono il volume, Ben-Ghiat cerca di valutare come, 
proprio attraverso la cultura, l’establishment perseguisse lo scopo di trasmettere valori € 
norme morali, tanto che le stesse adunate oceaniche possono essere interpretate come 
fenomeni si estetizzati ed estetizzanti, ma nondimeno come momenti attraverso cui 
istituire un comune sentire che avesse valenza moderna. “Questo intreccio di etica ed 
estetica conferi alla produzione culturale un’importante funzione nei programmi fascisti 
di trasformazione collettiva. Per molti critici fascisti [...] la modernita non implicava 
soltanto una serie di scelte estetiche, ma anche |’elaborazione di una gerarchia di valori, i 
quali poi si traducevano in un modo particolare di rapportarsi col mondo e agire in esso” 
(16). Lungi dall’essere un’area semi-abbondonata e poco sorvegliata della politica 
fascista, come a lungo si é sostenuto, proprio la cultura ha costituito il “locus” 
privilegiato per |’elaborazione di un impegno sociale che molti giovani avevano visto 
carente nella generazione (crociana!) dei padri. 

Lo studio del Ventennio viene affrontato soprattutto attraverso il romanzo e il 
cinema, nonché attraverso quella cospicua serie di attivita apertamente mecenatesche — 
premi (vedi il Festival del Cinema di Venezia), coppe, sovvenzioni, collaborazioni pagate 
a quotidiani — che il Regime istitui. II primo grosso nodo che Ben-Ghiat affronta é la 
ricerca, da parte di molti autori, di un maggiore realismo. Soprattutto verso gli anni 
Trenta, gli scrittori sentono la necessita di una scrittura nuova, pil’ contaminata dal reale e 
al suo servizio di quanto non fosse stata la precedente produzione rondista o vociana. II 
romanzo, antagonista alla poesia, appare a molti come la forma pit adatta a ritrarre la 
societa contemporanea. Intellettuali italiani del calibro di Barbaro (una figura complessa 
e poliedrica, che andrebbe chiaramente rivalutata), Alvaro o Moravia ammirano la Neue 
Sachlichkeit, 0 nuovo realismo, e cercano inoltre di cogliere ed imitare i fermenti di 
realismo che percorrono le avanguardie europee. Proprio la volonta di perseguire un 
maggiore realismo — una questione che apre uno scottante e irrisolto punto interrogativo 
sulla presunta “novita” del neorealismo post-bellico sia cinematografico che letterario — 
introduce un’altra questione sentita come fondamentale dalla cultura fascista: quella 
appunto della modernita. Oltre alla letteratura e in modo forse pit drammatico di questa, 
il compito di rappresentare la tanto ambita e corteggiata modernita, spetta al cinema. Con 
una contraddittorieta che sembra connaturata alle politiche culturali fasciste — che 
contemplano ad esempio la convivenza di tendenze a un tempo fortemente nazionaliste 
ed europeiste — i film che presentano la bellezza e la sanita della vita contadina, 
finiscono con rendere appetibile la vita di citta. Soprattutto reclamizzano modelli 
femminili di emancipazione apertamente in contrasto con quelli della “fattrice” rurale, 
caldeggiati dallo stesso Duce, e tentano di imitare i modelli di un’America tanto 
ufficialmente deprecata, quanto privatamente amata. 

Il consenso dei giovani nei confronti del Regime — che, sostiene Ben-Ghiat, fu una 
realta di fatto, al di 1a delle successive smentite degli intellettuali di quegli anni — 


Annali a’italianistica 20 (2002) 541 


comincid a venire meno con la guerra d’Etiopia, con il consolidarsi del rapporto con la 
Germania e con la successiva approvazione delle leggi razziali. La studiosa smentisce tra 
l’altro uno dei luoghi comuni pid unanimamente accettati e cioé che il razzismo italiano 
fosse una patina superficiale non condivisa dalla maggior parte della gente; un elemento 
posticcio applicato in un secondo momento e, pit che altro, un obolo pagato nei confronti 
di Hitler. Come ben dimostra nel libro, il fascismo, con il suo amore per un’etnicita 
folclorica e agraria, e la stigmatizzazione di inaccettabili devianze, affrontava la societa 
umana come “un organismo da manipolare mediante un’operazione chirurgica di vaste 
dimensioni” (14). 

La cultura fascista & sicuramente un testo importante per ricostruire le molte e 
variegate sfaccettature del regime, nonché I’aspetto eterogeneo ed intrinsecamente 
contraddittorio attraverso cui esso cercd di forgiare un “uomo nuovo” e una parallela 
“donna nuova” che potesse mettere in atto la rivoluzione fascista. Attraverso una 
certosina ricerca d’archivio, e lo spoglio di numerose riviste e corrispondenze private, 
Ben-Ghiat ricostruisce il complesso intreccio delle relazioni tra intellettuali e strutture di 
potere, sottolineando come questi si muovessero in modo camaleontico tra servilismo e 
autonomia, tra oppressioni della censura e impensabili sviste della stessa. A comprova 
che il Ventennio fascista fu tutt’altro che un periodo di puro, monolitico nazionalismo o 
di altrettanto virginale estraneita alla politica. 

Anna Maria Torriglia, University of California at Padua 


Beppe Fenoglio, Romanzi e racconti, nuova edizione accresciuta a cura di Dante 
Isella, Torino, Einaudi, 2001. Pp. LXVI - 1800. 

Questa seconda edizione dei romanzi e racconti di Beppe Fenoglio, curata da Dante Isella 
per Einaudi, Biblioteca della Pléiade, é¢ una ristampa accresciuta della prima raccolta del 
1992, dettata dalla necessita di aggiornare l'opera fenogliana in seguito al ritrovamento, 
da parte di Lorenzo Mondo nel 1994, dei quattro taccuini autografi titolati Appunti 
partigiani ’44-’45. A questo ritrovamento si aggiunge un racconto breve, Novembre sulla 
collina di Treiso, gia apparso nel 1952 su un settimanale cuneese e direttamente ricavato 
dagli Appunti, e due capitoli, il tredicesimo e il quattordicesimo, di quel romanzo 
anepigrafo noto ai fenoglisti col titolo “scientificamente asettico” di Frammenti di 
romanzo, ribattezzato ora L ’imboscata. 

Il recupero di questo materiale porta a compimento un appassionato lavoro di ricerca 
attorno alla produzione di Fenoglio, ma mostra anche la complessita dei problemi che si 
pongono nel ricostruire un itinerario intellettuale dove proprio gli scritti postumi risultano 
determinanti. Non a caso, quando nel 1978 Maria Corti diresse l’edizione critica 
dell’opera completa dello scrittore, |’impressione che potessero ancora circolare degli 
autografi era piuttosto epidermica ed avvertita, al punto da consegnare un senso di 
provvisorieta al progetto da lei stessa avviato; di fatto, e non senza punta polemica, Corti 
segnald in quell’occasione “il sospetto dell’esistenza sia di qualche altro scritto 
fenogliano [...] sia di fogli o blocchi di fogli ora mancanti ai testi qui editi” (cfr. 
Premessa a Beppe Fenoglio, Opere, edizione critica diretta da Maria Corti, Torino, 
Einaudi, 1978). 

Il nuovo volume curato da Dante Isella organizza i singoli brani secondo un criterio 
in parte discutibile, probabilmente dettato da esigenze di carattere editoriale, ma in 
complesso offre una ricca strumentazione soprattutto per quanto riguarda |’apparato 


542  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


critico e bibliografico. Nella prima sezione dell’opera vengono stampati, in ordine 
cronologico, gli scritti editi in vita, cioé / ventitré giorni della citta di Alba, La malorae 
la seconda redazione — quella uscita nel 1959 per Garzanti — di Primavera di bellezza; 
ad essi si aggiungono, costituendo una duplice eccezione, i sei racconti di Un giorno di 
Juoco cosi come erano stati predisposti per la stampa dallo stesso scrittore. L’eccezione é 
duplice innanzitutto perché la raccolta usci dopo la morte di Fenoglio, ampliata con altri 
sei racconti e con Una questione privata, inoltre perché essa viene inserita, con una 
inversione cronologica, in posizione anticipata rispetto a Primavera di bellezza, per 
consentire a quest’ultima di situarsi immediatamente a ridosso del Partigiano Johnny. La 
seconda sezione comprende invece gli scritti postumi e sparsi, dove il criterio di edizione 
si allinea alla necessita di rendere fruibili i singoli testi ad un pubblico “sempre pit: vasto” 
di lettori, rimettendo le ragioni filologiche alle schede critiche poste in appendice. Lungo 
questa strada il Partigiano Johnny, di cui come é noto esistono due redazioni, viene 
presentato secondo un criterio intermedio tra quello strettamente filologico seguito nel 
*78 dall’edizione critica, che giustapponeva meccanicamente le due varianti, e quello 
contaminatorio della prima edizione del ’68 curata da Lorenzo Mondo. La versione 
ricomposta da Isella, che permette una lettura unitaria e piuttosto coerente, viene poi 
integrata da un Dossier sussidiario comprendente i capitoli saltati di entrambe le 
redazioni. Sono invece esclusi dalla raccolta, forse sempre nel rispetto di una linea 
editoriale della “fruibilita”, alcuni testi di minore interesse letterario 0 segnati da uno 
sviluppo narrativo incerto: da La paga del sabato, il manoscritto inviato dall’autore a 
Einaudi e rifiutato da Vittorini, a quel Fenoglio alla prima guerra mondiale che dava il 
titolo all’?omonima raccolta curata nel 1973 da Gino Rizzo. Assente é anche L ’erba brilla 
al sole, edito nel ’61 come contributo ad una stampa resistenziale, corrispondente ai due 
capitoli aggiunti de L ‘imboscata; la sua non pubblicazione autonoma non si allinea a 
quella dei racconti // padrone paga male e Lo scambio dei prigionieri coincidenti con la 
quasi totalita, rispettivamente, del capitolo X e XI dello stesso libro. 

Dal punto di vista dell’apparato critico il volume si presenta particolarmente 
interessante e ricco, ampliato rispetto all’edizione del ’92 da un’aggiornata bibliografia 
curata da Barbara Colli. Oltre una breve premessa introduttiva ed una cronologia 
completa della biografia fenogliana, il libro contiene un bel saggio su La lingua del 
“Partigiano Johnny”, in cui l’originale scelta linguistica di contaminare |’italiano con 
l’inglese, analizzata nel suo triplice aspetto lessicale, morfologico e sintattico, viene 
ricollegata al background formativo e culturale dell’autore. La lingua anglosassone, cosi 
lontana dall’italiano falsificato della propaganda nazionalista, é interpretata allora come 
rivelazione, per il giovane Fenoglio, di un mondo “altro”, pit’ affascinante e nobile di 
quello piccolo-borghese delle Langhe, ma anche come cifra di un sentimento orgoglioso 
di diversita e di “irregolarita” intellettuale. 

Sempre all’interno dell’apparato critico sono da segnalare le Note all’edizione poste 
in appendice, che comprendono, oltre le schede di approfondimento di ogni singolo 
racconto, anche il citato Dossier, le Tavole di concordanza e soprattutto 1’ /tinerario 
fenogliano. Con quest’ultimo scritto Isella, inserendosi all’interno della vexata quaestio 
relativa alla distensione cronologica delle diverse opere, tenta di ricostruire le tappe di un 
complicato ed attraente percorso creativo: dai perduti “quaderni neri” su cui la madre di 
Fenoglio ricordava il figlio scrivere ininterrottamente al ritorno dalla guerra, attraverso il 
lacunoso abbozzo in inglese del cosiddetto Ur Partigiano Johnny, fino alle ultime 
tormentate redazioni di Una questione privata. Al centro di questa analisi é ancora una 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 543 


volta privilegiato l’intrico dei vari livelli della stratigrafia testuale, in particolare per cid 
che riguarda il rapporto complesso che lega le due redazioni di Primavera di bellezza con 
quelle del Partigiano Johnny. Isella sviluppa la propria tesi filologica tenendo conto non 
solo dei manoscritti e delle varianti, ma anche delle corrispondenze epistolari che |’autore 
intrattenne con i diversi editori. L’aspetto probabilmente pit interessante della sua 
ricostruzione é l’ipotesi di un avantesto generativo di tutta la produzione fenogliana a 
tema bellico, da immaginarsi come un insieme di annotazioni e appunti pid o meno 
elaborati in forma narrativa. L’esistenza di un simile supporto, di cui forse i ritrovati 
Appunti partigiani rappresentano un frammento residuo, potrebbe sciogliere molti dubbi 
sull’accavallamento insistente di temi e motivi tra le varie trame dei racconti, 
riconducendoli ad un'unica fonte preliminare, “vero Ur di tutti i libri resistenziali” dello 
scrittore (1505). In questa traiettoria l’immagine di Fenoglio intento a trascrivere su dei 
block-notes i propri ricordi partigiani non solo converge con quanto testimoniato dalla 
madre, ma restituisce ancora una volta il profilo di un uomo interattivo fino in fondo con 
la propria scrittura, segnato da una vocazione letteraria “integra, assoluta, a cui votare 
tutto se stesso” (IX). 

Giorgio Nisini, Universita “La Sapienza”, Roma 


Il castello, il convento, il palazzo e altri scenari dell’ambientazione letteraria, a cura di 
Marinella Cantelmo, Firenze: Leo S. Olschki Editore, 2000. Pp. 326. 

Il tema del libro, varia e stimolante raccolta di analisi semiologiche e storico-letterarie, fu 
proposto per un convegno, organizzato nell’anno accademico 1998-99 presso |’ Universita 
degli Studi di Lecce. Libro plurale e “a chiave”, ricomposto nella postfazione di 
Marinella Cantelmo, suggerisce |’ipotesi secondo cui “fin dalle origini della cultura 
europea la diversa configurazione dello spazio” sia basilare “nella individuazione della 
specificita di qualsiasi opera letteraria” (313). Lo spazio viene definito “forza illocutoria 
capace di ‘dar forma’ alla visione del mondo del lettore” (316), “‘isotopia fondante che 
organizza a tutti i livelli la compagine del testo letterario” (316). 

Apre la rassegna degli studi un contributo di Cesare Segre (Prospettive alto/basso e 
cronotopo in due capolavori 1-7), in cui si esamina il valore della alternativa alto/basso 
nel Castello di Franz Kafka. Dal Castello di Kafka Segre passa poi al recente romanzo di 
José Saramago, Tutti i nomi, che appare costruito sull’orizzontalita. La differenza tra le 
due strutture — spiega Segre — cela due diversi atteggiamenti. Saramago sceglie 
l’orizzontalita perché “nega la trascendenza” (6); Kafka, invece, “soffre della mancata 
risposta e dell’impossibilita di comprensione reciproca tra i poteri superiori e la nostra 
povera umanita” (7). 

Dopo la riflessione di Romeo Galassi (Lo specchio come istitutore di scenari 
letterari 9-15), incentrata sullo specchio, strumento non “in grado di costruire lo spazio 
[...] ma di istituirlo” (9), Pindagine di Salvatore D’Onofrio (L ’antro dell'uomo selvaggio 
17-38), inizialmente antropologica, lambisce la “geografia mitica della Sicilia” per 
indugiare sugli “scenari privilegiati dell’ambientazione letteraria” (20) e concentrarsi 
sull’antro, in quanto fondale del racconto omerico del celebre libro IX dell’Odissea e 
perno di intrecci simbolici che coinvolgono le coppie oppositive alto/basso e 
natura/cultura. 

Al principio del capitolo XX dei Promessi sposi, Manzoni — di cui si é occupata 
Marinella Cantelmo nel saggio Abiti di pietra. La casa del padre ed altri paesaggi (39- 


544  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


55) — ridisegna il castellaccio dell’Innominato secondo la prospettiva mutevole di don 
Rodrigo, osservatore che si avvicina. I] palazzotto e il castellaccio sono veramente 
“!’ostensione tangibile” (51) dei tratti distintivi di don Rodrigo e dell’ Innominato, come 
dire, effettivamente, i loro “abiti di pietra”. Il “monastero di Gertrude non si pud invece 
considerare [...] l’espressione di un’analoga consonanza ambientale con il personaggio” 
(51). La Cantelmo ripercorre lintera vicenda di Gertrude, spiegandola secondo 
l’alternativa contrapposta di dentro e fuori, categorie semiologiche e ‘punti di vista’ del 
narrare. 

Osserva Maria Luisa Meneghetti (// castello d'amore e il giardino dei piaceri 57-65) 
che nella grande tradizione letteraria cortese la rappresentazione dell’amore, nella 
quintessenziata trasfigurazione aristocratica, ha per sfondo ricorrente due principali 
ambientazioni: il giardino, che pud essere hortus conclusus, e il castello, che diviene 
talvolta “la cambra/chambre privata della dama che é l’oggetto d’amore” (57). Vari sono 
i richiami letterari, da re Alfonso XI a Gonzalo de Berceo, al Dante inventore di Matelda 
nel XXVIII del Purgatorio. Secondo la tradizione trobadorica, comune agli esempi citati, 
il luogo deputato all’amore, sia esso giardino o camera, é conclusus: raccolto e 
circoscritto. 

Giovanni Palmieri (Lo spostamento della mela, ovvero lo spazio del desiderio in una 
“notte” di Shahrazad 67-80) applica alla lettura della novella La donna fatta a pezzi, 
compresa nella raccolta delle Mille e una notte, il metodo impiegato per l’esegesi 
spirituale del Corano e i tre livelli di analisi individuati dai filosofi e dai teologi della 
tradizione sciita. La novella, di cui Palmieri riassume |’“‘evidenza letterale” (69), sembra 
chiara e non lo é; sembra sciolta quando invece resta insoluta. Palmieri si sofferma sugli 
elementi e sui nessi che la compongono, spiegandoli per mezzo di brillanti deduzioni e 
inferenze. 

Per Bufalino, secondo Flora Di Legami (// sanatorio, la fortezza, la stanza in 
Bufalino. Scenari simbolici di complessita 81-116), “i maggiori eccessi esigono il 
segreto, |’oscurita dell’abisso, la solitudine di una cella” (81). A meta fra odio e amore di 
clausura, le propaggini dell’invenzione di Bufalino affondano “in spazi liminari e tempi 
sospesi” (82). Gli spazi narrativi di Diceria dell’untore, di Menzogne nella notte e di 
Tommaso e il fotografo sono un sanatorio, un carcere e una “stanza-tana”, tutti e tre 
simili. Blanchot e Genette sono alcuni dei segnavia della saggista: servendosi dei loro 
contributi Flora Di Legami afferma che il “timone” della scrittura di Bufalino punta verso 
“linee d’ombra” (84) che riguardano una dimensione spaziale fantasticamente ricreata. Di 
qui la saggista si addentra nei testi, ricorrendo ampiamente all’analisi stilistica. 

Carlo Alberto Augieri (Jn cammino, lontano dal palazzo, distante dalla piazza. 
Pasolini e la strada come cronotopo simbolico della verita ‘viandante’ 117-41) comincia 
con Bachtin e il concetto di cronotopo, senza il quale sarebbe impossibile “la 
rappresentazione, la raffigurazione simbolica del significato” (117). Lo studio dei 
cronotopi impressi in un testo, della “dialogicita dei cronotopi” (120), permette di 
“cogliere dal profondo le forme della differenza immaginativa e simbolica presenti in un 
testo” (120): lo si osserva in Edipo re e San Paolo di Pasolini, dove le due 
modellizzazioni culturali greca ed ebraico-cristiana debbono confrontarsi con la libera e 
moderna riscrittura pasoliniana che vi si sovrappone. 

Michela Sacco Messineo si é soffermata sul romanzo di Giuseppe Tomasi di 
Lampedusa (Un luogo e un'anima: l’isola del Gattopardo 143-62). Il mondo della 
memoria di Tomasi di Lampedusa e il mondo del principe di Salina convergono in una 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 545 


dimensione paesaggistica comune, fatta di palazzi, conventi e ville. E una 
rappresentazione della Sicilia, “Il’Isola fastosa dei giardini privati che si contrappone a 
quella pastorale, immersa in un ‘immemoriale silenzio’’(145). Lo spazio e il tempo 
diventano nel corso del Gattopardo i soli veri temi: l’uno viene “elevato al rango di tema 
narrativo” (155), mentre I’altro invade il paesaggio e la meditazione del protagonista. 

Antonio Giulio Giannone (Topografia letteraria: Lecce nei racconti di Vittorio 
Bodini 163-73) traccia il rapporto che Vittorio Bodini intrattenne con la propria citta, 
Lecce, sfondo della sua produzione letteraria. La piccola e provinciale Lecce si 
contrappone, nella prosa narrativa di Bodini, alle grandi citta del nord, pit affabili e 
partecipi delle vicende nazionali. Dopo |’esperienza spagnola di Bodini (1946-49), Lecce 
diventa, perd, il luogo della memoria; il suo barocco, che si giustifica alla luce 
dell’ horror vacui, |’essenza dei suoi abitanti. 

Nell’/ntroduzione alle “Memorie della legione straniera” di Maurizio Magnus di 
Lawrence, studiato da Raffaella Bertazzoli (Tempo e spazio nelle pagine sul monastero di 
Montecassino di D. H. Lawrence 175-86), viene rievocato il viaggio di avvicinamento al 
monastero di Montecassino, che riecheggia la descrizione del castello dell’Innominato 
nei Promessi sposi, allora fresca lettura di Lawrence. Per Lawrence la natura umana é 
duplice, “mentale e istintuale” (184), e il senso pit profondo della vita appartiene alla 
“forza del sangue”. Cosi — per riassumere la tesi di Raffaella Bertazzoli — il diario di 
viaggio di Lawrence “diviene [...] un diario intimo in cui si metaforizza il senso di 
un’esistenza sempre al limite tra la pulsione” (186) e l’angoscia di vivere in un tempo che 
ha negata e mortificata. 

Anna Maria Piglionica (Su alcuni luoghi del romance: |’abbazia, la cattedrale, il 
castello 187-214) si ispira a un passo di Angela Carter sul racconto fantastico e reale, 
tratto dalla postfazione a Fireworks (1974). The Mystery of Edwin Drood, romanzo 
interrotto dalla morte di Dickens, viene avvicinato dalla saggista a The Bloody Chamber 
(1979) di Angela Carter, riscrittura della favola di Charles Perrault La Barbe-Bleu. 
L’opera della Carter, tuttavia, é arricchita di un’attenzione verso lo spazio sconosciuta al 
modello. C’é, inoltre, un narcisismo che “si trasferisce nella voce narrante che tutto 
ingloba” (209). 

Dopo aver dato alcune coordinate della produzione di Antonia S. Byatt, autrice del 
successo internazionale Possession: A Romance (1990), Claudia Bacile di Castiglione 
(Antonia S. Byatt: acquatiche trasparenze, trionfi decorativi nello spazio dell’isolamento 
e del segreto 215-32) rivela la tecnica realistica di una scrittrice “di cultura vastissima e 
approfondita”, legata, insieme ad altri autori postmoderni, “al mondo dell’universita e 
della critica letteraria” (215). La Byatt predilige i luoghi segreti. Su questa 
predisposizione la saggista articola una considerevole sezione del proprio studio. 

Paolo Puppa (Dal Castello di Otranto a Nostra Signora dei Turchi 233-42) si occupa 
del Castello di Otranto di Walpole (1764). E l’intreccio, per primo, a interessare il 
saggista, la costruzione e la struttura della storia che “ruota intorno al motivo della roba, 
ovvero della successione usurpata, coll’immancabile ripristino dell’ordine e coll’ agnitio 
che risistema gerarchie e proprieta” (235). Lo spazio della narrazione ¢ compresso, 
Punita di luogo é esibita, cosi come I’unita di tempo — dal momento che tutta la vicenda 
si svolge in soli tre giorni e due notti. Identico é il repertorio di cui si servi Carmelo Bene, 
scrivendo Nostra Signora dei Turchi. Simili, in Walpole e in Bene, il “timbro 
espressionistico” (240) dello spazio e il labirintico percorso dell’ Io. 

Dal Dialogo della Pittura di Lodovico Dolce e dal suo presunto debito nei confronti 


546 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


del pensiero artistico di Pietro Aretino Olga S. Casale e Laura Facecchia (La coperta 
nuziale di Peleo e Teti nell’Epitalamio di Catullo, tradotto da L. Dolce 243-64) prendono 
spunto per un’indagine su un testo pochissimo frequentato dalla critica. 

Marco Cerruti ha indagato l’ambientazione sette-ottocentesca della solitudine (Gli 
involucri dell’“io”. Ambientazioni della solitudine nell’eta del Foscolo 265-77) e 
Giovanna Scianatico ha trattato il tema de Lo spazio della natura nella scrittura del 
Settecento (279-302). Questo secondo saggio é una scoperta di percorsi settecenteschi: 
nell’Inghilterra di Shaftesbury, accesa al dibattito sulla natura e sul giardino, quindi nella 
Svizzera prerousseauiana, ove si celebravano i valori di naturalezza, semplicita e 
tradizione, e, infine, nell’Italia degli illuministi e di Antonio Genovesi, per negare, 
nonostante la somiglianza di superficie, le affinita tra il senso arcadico della natura e la 
visione illuministico-rousseauiana. 

Donato Valli ha studiato Due luoghi esemplari della permanenza curtense di fine 
Ottocento: il tribunale e il seminario (303-12), intendendo riferirsi — come spiega in una 
rapida premessa — “al sistema chiuso, in sé tutto giustificato”, quasi che i due luoghi 
letterari presi in considerazione fossero portatori “di una legge interna regolatrice del 
canone dei comportamenti ideologici ed espressivi” (303). Valli si sofferma su due 
scrittori, Francesco Rubichi, avvocato, e Arcangelo Lotesoriere, sacerdote, entrambi 
vissuti nella provincia di Lecce nella seconda meta dell’ Ottocento. 

Stefano Termanini, Genova 


Ernesto G. Caserta, Saggi critici su Croce, Napoli, Loffredo, 2001. 

Ernesto G. Caserta, Trent’anni di critica italiana, Firenze, Cesati, 2001. 
Apparentemente si tratta di due volumi piuttosto lontani nell’impostazione e negli scopi: 
il primo é una raccolta organica di saggi (tranne i! primo tutti gia pubblicati in altre sedi) 
su diversi aspetti dell’opera critica di Benedetto Croce; il secondo raccoglie le recensioni 
che |’autore é venuto pubblicando, per lo pid in riviste americane, nel corso di un 
trentennio su studi di vario argomento, ma che in prevalenza avevano ad oggetto ancora 
Croce nonché Giacomo Leopardi e Alessandro Manzoni, altri sui campi prediletti di 
studio. 

Segnalare unitariamente le due raccolte é tuttavia giustificato poiché 
sostanzialmente unitaria ne é l’ispirazione (oltre, almeno in parte, anche la tematica). E il 
centro di questa ispirazione é in effetti la sterminata opera critica crociana, intesa tanto 
come inesausta riflessione sulla natura e le finalita del fare critica, quanto come diretto 
esercizio di essa: un’opera dal Caserta saldamente posseduta in ogni sua implicazione e 
convintamente assunta a criterio di orientamento estetico e critico. In questo senso, con le 
due raccolte qui presentate egli porta a compimento un percorso intrapreso almeno 
trent’anni fa con lo studio sistematico e minuziosissimo delle origini e dei primi sviluppi 
della critica letteraria del filosofo napoletano (ci riferiamo al suo Croce critico letterario 
1882-1921, del 1972), e proseguito poi con altri importanti contributi di esegesi crociana. 
Di questo lungo e tenace percorso i saggi e le recensioni raccolte nei due volumi qui 
segnalati costituiscono altrettanti approfondimenti, sviluppi polemici, integrazioni e 
corollari. 

In particolare nel primo volume il lettore trovera una veloce ma efficace 
caratterizzazione de La concezione estetico-critica di Croce, e quindi una serie di saggi 
nei quali sono discusse altre correnti della critica del secondo Novecento (il marxismo e 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 547 


la sua variante gramsciana in particolare, ma si segnala anche |’ accurata discussione delle 
pagine crociane di René Wellek). A questi saggi di misurata polemica fanno quindi da 
complemento molte delle recensioni riunite nel secondo volume: sono per lo pit 
recensioni scritte nel corso degli anni settanta e ottanta, quando era certo nel suo punto 
piu basso la fortuna critica di Croce. Si pud dire pertanto che al Caserta vada il merito, tra 
gli altri, di aver mantenuto salda e vitale la tradizione degli studi crociani in momenti nei 
quali il vento delle mode culturali soffiava robustamente in altre direzioni. 

Una segnalazione particolare ci sembra che meriti l’inedito saggio che apre il primo 
volume, e che é dedicato al bellissimo scritto crociano su Un angolo di Napoli, ossia sulla 
sua grande casa, nel cuore di quella Napoli che fu sua come di pochi altri poiché come 
pochi altri la possedette con amore e conoscenza assoluti. Quelle che Caserta scrive sui 
luoghi crociani sono pagine fresche e mosse da una profonda simpatia umana e 
intellettuale. 

Emanuele Cutinelli-Rendina, Universita di Losanna 


Umberto Eco. Experiences in Translation. Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2001. 

Translation theory is experiencing a renaissance period, judging by the many interesting 
and innovative books and ideas that have appeared on the market recently. Generally 
speaking, if simplifying somewhat the nature of the issues at stake, I believe that books 
on translation can be divided into two main groups: those questioning the traditional 
approach to translation theory by drawing on other disciplines, such as sociology and 
postcolonial studies, thus proposing a new perspective for the study and interpretation of 
the act and process of translation; and those designed for and directed at practitioners 
whose central argument and preoccupation revolves around a rigorous and practical 
analysis of interlingual problems. Eco’s book Experiences in Translation is a creature in 
between, where the interlingual analysis is matched and balanced by a solid theoretical 
framework. It is one of those rare books at the end of which both the practitioner and the 
theorist find something to think about and mull over. 

Experiences in Translation is the revised assemblage of a series of lectures, the 
Goggio Public Lectures, that Umberto Eco was invited to deliver at the University of 
Toronto in 1998. The additions and changes in the volume are clearly stated in Eco’s 
introduction: “This printed version also contains many examples I was unable to give 
during the lectures owing to lack of time. I have also organized the material differently so 
that the first part deals more with personal experiences in translation while the second 
part is more theoretical in nature” (IX). The division into two main sections, the practical 
and the theoretical, is not so much natural as based on a critical reflection arguing that a 
theory of translation is often determined and preceded by practical issues: “It may seems 
strange that, rather than discuss my experiences in translation from the point of view of 
theoretical concepts, I deal with theory only after analysing these experiences. But, on the 
one hand, this decision reflects the way in which I arrived at certain theoretical 
explanations, and, on the other, I deliberately wanted to discuss my experiences in the 
light of a ‘naive’ concept of translation” (IX). What could Eco mean by a “naive concept 
of translation”? As I see it, that “naive” may be here interpreted as “practical,” succinctly 
exemplifying and articulating the untheoretical approach that often seems to characterize 
the work of the most accomplished translators. Apart from Tim Parks’s exceptional book 
Translating Style (London: Cassell, 1998), it is in fact rare to come across a theoretical 


548  Annali a’italianistica 20 (2002) 


book on translation by a professional translator. I had once the opportunity to ask 
William Weaver, for instance, a couple of questions about translation, to which he 
answered something like “I’m a translator not a theoretician.” This is as if the actual 
translating process were estranged from theory, or rather as if it needed to avoid theory in 
order to be, in order to defy the original paradox and impasse of translation, which, in the 
words of Eco, “shows that a perfect translation is an impossible dream” (IX). A translator 
can be a theoretician only after having translated, after having dismissed his translating 
self, after having traded off creativity and “naive,” yet profound and intimate knowledge, 
for methodological discourse. Theory can only stall translating by pinning the translator 
down to the ultimate knowledge that there is no ideal translation and that translation can 
never be the original, its own self-mirroring narrative. This is why books such as Tim 
Parks’s and Eco’s are so rare yet so precious, exposing simultaneously the elemental 
vulnerability of translation but also its elating potentiality. If, in fact, Eco’s book, like 
Parks’s, does not set out a series of prescribed rules for the ultimate translation, which, as 
we saw, does not exist, it does provide a myriad practical tips and insights which can 
really make the life of a translator much easier. I would in fact go so far as to suggest that 
a copy of Eco’s and Parks’s books should find a central place in the private library of 
anybody translating from English into Italian and vice-versa. 

In this book Eco does not take anything for granted; on the contrary, he dissects 
from scratch the process of translating, questioning, and challenging, with insightful 
arguments, crucial notions such as equivalence, faithfulness, and adherence. And he does 
so by drawing on a close reading and examination of his own books and their translations 
into other languages. Clearly, through this process we not only learn a great deal about 
translating, but also about the literary and imaginary world of Umberto Eco the novelist. 
Therefore, the introspections afforded and gained by reading this book are valuable to the 
translator as well as to the scholar studying Eco’s fictional work. Interpretation is indeed 
one of the main themes, if not the great theme of this book. It is around the notion and the 
discussion of interpretation that Eco orchestrates his “naively” skilful reading of 
translating. A strong reference to the centrality of interpretation, to its guiding principle, 
is already found on page 6: “As I have repeatedly stated [...], a text is a machine 
conceived for eliciting interpretation.” It follows that the first and most important task of 
a translator is that of interpreter, whose ability and dexterity hinge upon the 
understanding that it is not just a matter of interpreting language but also culture because, 
as Eco states, “every language has its own genius (as Humboldt said) or, rather, that 
every language expresses a different world view [...]” (12). It is by approaching the book 
in an organic and holistic fashion, as the representative of a whole culture, a whole 
“world view,” that the translator may problematize and contextualize the notion of 
equivalence: “Equivalence in meaning cannot be taken as satisfactory criterion for a 
correct translation, first of all because in order to define the still undefined notion of 
translation one would have to employ a notion as obscure as equivalence of meaning 
[...]” (9), and yet “it is impossible to speak of equivalence of meaning” (12). 

Moreover, it is the very notion and idea of interpretation that is questioned and 
fastidiously scrutinized in light of the cross-cultural and interdisciplinary nature of 
translation and translating. I think that it is here, in this first chapter, that the strength of 
Eco’s book lies, insofar as the process of translating and interpreting acquires a fullness 
and an inclusiveness which, without being prescriptive, does great justice to the 
complexity and intricacy of translation. 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 549 


The section on theory is, in my view, less stimulating not because it lacks 
articulation and persuasiveness, but because it insists on and reiterates traditional 
juxtapositions — for instance, the comparison between the original and the copy, and its 
attendant comparative theoretical framework — which appear increasingly limiting and 
inadequate to explain current phenomena of cross-cultural encounters and exchange. 
Besides, I do not see the reason to cling to such clear and unproblematic opposition in the 
field of translation studies when just about everywhere else in the field of the humanities 
and social sciences the notions of original and originality have undergone such drastic 
and dramatic a reappraisal. Clearly, as Eco shows and demonstrates in Experiences in 
Translation, the comparative analysis still holds currency, especially in the domain of 
commercial publishing and practical translation. It would be just untenable to argue that 
interlingual translation ought to move away from grammatical, syntactic, and stylistic 
considerations and embrace a free-for-all approach. The point is that these considerations 
might well be founded on other and different sets of methodological and theoretical 
frameworks from those revolving around the static (and for the original unchangeable) 
idea of final products. This, in turn, means that a reconsideration, and perhaps a 
reformulation, of translation theory along the axis of contemporary philosophical and 
cultural discourse should not limit itself to the domain of theory and academia, but ought 
to influence the thinking and culture of commercial publishing too. 

Selfhood, subjectivity, language, and cultural values are indissolubly linked to the 
extent that, at least in Western culture, the notion of identity and belonging, of being at 
home, are strictly correlated with a homogeneity of linguistic and cultural values, whose 
safety appears to be guaranteed by enclosing them, by sealing and protecting them from 
the influence of what lies outside. It is by constructing linguistic and cultural enclosures 
that the ideas of authenticity and inauthenticity, original and copy become possible, 
indeed accepted as natural and necessary. This framework has had a historical, political, 
and social value, a necessity whose tenets continue to persist and hold sway even at a 
time when they appear to be undermined, if not altogether outmoded, by the process of 
globalization and international mobility. And yet, regardless of the paradigm shift and the 
attendant discourse of cross-fertilization and hybridisation, we still cling to the imperative 
of authenticity and originality, of purity based on a set of implicitly or explicitly 
protected linguistic and cultural values. What I would like to see happening more often is 
a discourse opening up a series of challenges in order for a further zone to emerge in- 
between authenticity and inauthenticity. What I am referring to is the process which 
perhaps, but not necessarily, gives rise to so-called authentic spaces. In other words, a 
process, a cultural Aabitat, in which authenticity and inauthenticity are themselves 
negative and absent, only potential amidst an unqualified and unqualifiedly, apparently 
incomplete, landscape. I believe that translation theory could make a strong contribution 
to this debate. 

The added irony regarding the debate on original and copy is that modern and 
contemporary art, including literature, has for so many years celebrated its inadequacy or 
simply its status as mere copy, as petrified simulacrum which unsuccessfully searches for 
its own originality in the attempt to escape its nature as the shadow of reality. Here, I 
suppose, we have the great irony and paradox of art, that is, the coexistence of the notions 
of originality and copy, the fusion and the embedding of an apparently unsolvable 
dichotomy. This living together of opposite principles is the body and the flesh of art, its 
fascination but also its irredeemable sin. Never was the hybridity and hermaphroditism of 


550  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


art so clearly stated and exposed, its supposed originality problematized as in modern and 
contemporary art. And yet we still think of translation as that which has to be faithful to 
the original when, in fact, translation could be used to reclaim the profound meaning of 
art’s incompleteness and vagrancy through emphasizing, indeed organizing and 
clarifying, its epiphanic errancy, ultimately restoring art to the originality of its 
multilinguism and polyculturalism. Clearly, this is translation as theory and not as 
practice, translation as the contemporary hermeneutic of language and culture. It is 
translation working its epistemological method and purpose through its inherent nature of 
“halo,” of interim and “interstitial” per eccellenza in a world of believed originals which 
are there waiting and hoping to be deconstructed. 

This is also translation as an ideological and existential home and habitus for those 
who, by choice or necessity, are physically living in between and who for many years 
have thought and lived their interstitiality as a loss, of home, the self, their traditions. It is 
now perhaps time to see the “error” of being potential, of being “as such,” as the locus of 
responsible criticism and the geography where, in losing oneself, one can eventually find 
oneself. I believe this is the challenge of translation theory for this century, a challenge 
that Eco does not appear to embrace fully or see. 

Paolo Bartoloni, The University of Sydney 


Maria Nicolai Paynter. Ignazio Silone. Beyond the Tragic Vision. Toronto: Toronto 
UP, 2000. 

One of the several new accounts of Silone’s life and works published in the centenary 
year of his birth, Maria Nicolai Paynter’s account of her fellow Abruzzan, /gnazio Silone. 
Beyond the Tragic Vision, is the first ever full-length monograph available in English. As 
the title indicates, Paynter’s main thesis is that Silone’s works acknowledge but then 
transcend the nihilism of many of his contemporaries. She persuasively presents a basic 
pattern for all his novels and plays: human suffering and oppression are inevitable, but 
can be relieved by the redemptive sacrifices of Christ-like protagonists. Whilst repeatedly 
expressing his deep-seated mistrust of both religious and political institutions, Silone 
continually stresses the need for acts of individual courage to assert and strengthen the 
dignity of the human spirit. Paynter’s main concern is to revise the standard approach to 
Silone’s literary oeuvre by moving away from an autobiographical, political emphasis to 
concentrate on stylistic analysis. To a certain degree Beyond the Tragic Vision is an 
English version of her earlier book Simbolismo e ironia nella narrativa di Silone 
(L’Aquila: Regione d’Abruzzo, 1991), but its examination of Silone’s oeuvre is more 
comprehensive. Its scope extends beyond the novels to include the short story collection 
Viaggio a Parigi, published in German in 1934 and only available in Italian since 1993, 
also Silone’s two plays and non-fictional works such as the autobiographical Uscita di 
sicurezza (1965) and the dialogues La scuola dei dittatori (1938, revised for Italian 
publication 1962). Whilst acknowledging the ideological importance of Silone’s work, 
Paynter endeavors not to over-idealize the author as an anti-Fascist, anti-Communist 
hero. 

The book is not a chronological study, but structured according to genre. It begins 
with a brief biographical profile, and moves straight on to the collection of short 
narratives and essays, Uscita di sicurezza. Although occasionally it seems that Paynter 
gives too much credence to the author’s retrospective view of his childhood and youth in 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 551 


her detailed summary of the work (31, for example, where it is no longer clear if we are 
reading a synopsis of Silone’s thought or of Paynter’s), her focus on the style of each 
piece successfully brings out the collection’s overall graduation from narrative to essay, 
and its corresponding thematic shift from the personal to the public or historical. Rather 
than treating the collection as an account of Silone’s expulsion from the Communist 
Party to be tested for its veracity, Paynter underlines its wider meanings and gives it a 
place within the dynamic of the author’s literary oeuvre. 

The following chapter moves somewhat abruptly to the short stories of Viaggio a 
Parigi, which, as Paynter points out, have been neglected by both Italian and foreign 
critics. Paynter is, in her own words, “reintroducing this collection to English-speaking 
readers of Silone for the first time since 1934” (50). Here the main thrust of her stylistic 
analysis asserts itself as she examines in detail Silone’s orchestration of realistic and 
symbolic elements to present events that seem at once immediate and universal. The 
reasons she advances for Silone’s decision never to revise and republish the collection as 
a whole do not however address the interesting question of why he never returned to the 
short story genre per se. Instead Paynter focuses on the sex scenes and folkloric elements 
without considering why Silone did not simply remove these from Viaggio a Parigi as he 
did from the revised versions of longer works. Also, although the title story contains 
symbolic dreams which are unique in Silone’s oeuvre, Paynter only refers in passing to 
the possible influence of Freud and Jung (50 and note). This is a little disappointing in the 
light of her stimulating and detailed use of Jung to interpret Pane e vino. However, her 
emphasis on the spiritual aspects of this early writing is both new and convincing. Whilst 
conceding that political elements are very strong and sometimes crudely handled in the 
exile works, Paynter stresses that religious imagery is just as important and often just as 
obtrusive (see 98 for her comparison of the 1937 version of Pane e vino with the revised 
edition of 1955). 

From Viaggio a Parigi it would seem logical to move on to the novels where Silone 
develops the results of his early narrative experiments. However, although Paynter sees 
La scuola dei dittatori as somewhat of an anomaly in Silone’s oeuvre — she describes it 
as an exception to the “macrotex’”” of the novels and plays with their “implicit unity of 
structural design” (74) — she interpolates a chapter on it here. Perhaps this would feel 
less like an interruption if Paynter had made more of the relationship between Silone’s 
factual and fictional writing and had included the book-length essay Der Fascismus 
(1934), which is missing both in the text and bibliography. Its omission is particularly 
conspicuous as it, like Viaggio a Parigi, has also been translated into Italian since 
Paynter’s first monograph was published (// Fascismo. Carnago/Varese: Sugarco, 1992). 
To a great extent, Der Fascismus formed the basis of La scuola dei dittatori and is to La 
scuola what the short stories are to the novels: a first attempt, an expedient experiment, 
aimed at making money but also at finding a form to capture Silone’s ideas of the 
moment. In the context of Paynter’s emphasis on stylistic analysis, there would have been 
ample scope for a comparison of the parallel development of the crude irony and 
anecdotal style of Der Fascismus and Viaggio a Parigi into the structural irony and 
thematic unity of La scuola dei dittatori and the novels. Nevertheless, Paynter makes a 
valuable contribution to the debate on the genre of La scuola dei dittatori, identifying it 
as a Satire according to Northorpe Frye’s eminently fitting category of “second-phase 
satire,” which culminates in “reductio ad absurdum” (68 and note). Setting its immediate 
political relevance aside, she concentrates on its critique of received and unquestioned 


552  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


knowledge and its lessons for today’s reader. 

Chapters 5 and 6 are dedicated to Silone’s novel production, and here Paynter comes 
into her own. She maintains a general awareness of the many different versions and 
revisions of the early novels (including a previously unknown typescript of // seme sotto 
la neve 107) without allowing them to bog down her overall interpretation. She produces 
more than sufficient evidence for her claim that both spiritual and symbolic nonrealistic 
elements are strongly present in Silone’s narrative from the beginning, whilst providing a 
satisfactory analysis of their development over time. Her interpretation of the Christian 
symbolism which permeates Silone’s entire novel production is particularly thorough, 
including what she reads persuasively as inverted, parodic representations of the 
Eucharist, the demonic banquets of the compromised and damned. Paynter does not allow 
herself to be distracted by the question of whether or not Silone has a place in the Italian 
canon, a somewhat redundant and parochial issue given his established international 
status. Rather than looking for literary antecedents to qualify Silone’s novels, she 
concentrates on other sources of inspiration: the liturgy, the lives of the saints, and Fascist 
propaganda material that he satirizes. 

Chapter 7 deals with the plays Ed egli si nascose and L’avventura di un povero 
cristiano. Paynter claims that they confront the “problem of truth” not as a philosophical 
problem but as “life’s fundamental organizing principle.” She deals thoroughly with the 
structure and content of each; her more general genre considerations are intriguing but 
remain superficial, for example the brief mentions of classical models and the Passion 
play, or via crucis (170, 179). No performance details are given, neither is there any 
discussion of the role of drama as a concept in Silone’s works, although both would have 
been relevant given her conclusion that his plays are basically meant to be read and not 
seen. Generally speaking, however, Paynter does not weigh her text down with frequent 
references to other secondary literature. Instead, she dedicates the entire final chapter to 
Silone’s literary fortune and the links between the changing reception of his works and 
the vicissitudes of Italy’s political and social history. She strikes an excellent balance 
between detail and a general overview; her coverage of American criticism is particularly 
thorough. 

Paynter’s emphasis on the spirituality of Silone’s worldview in Beyond the Tragic 
Vision makes her account particularly coherent and persuasive. Sometimes, however, this 
emphasis also results in a simplified approach to Silone’s political career, and 
inaccuracies creep in: for example, Silone’s break with the Communist Party in 1931 was 
by no means as total as Paynter implies. Silone maintained close contact with German 
Communists whilst in exile in Switzerland; and, contrary to Paynter’s claim, the 
periodical information which he edited contains no anti-Communist material. His 
description of Communism as “red fascism,” which she mentions in connection to his 
1927 crisis, was in fact provoked by the Stalinist purges nearly ten years later. On the 
other hand, given the embryonic stage of research on the topic and the furor it has caused, 
it is to Paynter’s credit that she does not sidestep more recent controversies surrounding 
Silone. Both in her introduction and conclusion she refers to the discovery of letters that 
seem to prove he acted as a Fascist informer during the 1920s. Although obviously a 
great admirer of Silone the man as well as Silone the writer, Paynter is quite prepared to 
entertain the possibility that he may have collaborated with the Fascists, also that he 
participated in CIA-sponsored events in the post-war period. A copy of a letter she wrote 
to the CIA asking for information on Silone and the answering refusal are included in the 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 553 


first appendix to the book, first-hand proof of the difficulties of such research. Paynter 
makes some vital general points: for example, even whilst funded by America, Silone 
criticized US policies in his review Tempo presente. However, although suggestions for 
further reading can be found in the footnotes, neither issue is dealt with in depth; hence 
some of her comments will seem oblique to the general reader. She is, of course, more 
than justified in withholding any conclusions on Silone as Fascist informer, given the 
incomplete evidence available, as well as considering the debate largely beyond the scope 
and aim of her work. Nevertheless, it would be helpful to explain the facts more fully 
before putting the debate to one side; also, the first appendix of Silone’s letters to the 
Oprechts and Paynter’s CIA correspondence would be easier to reference if the letters 
were in chronological order. However, as a general literary critical introduction to the 
writer and his works /gnazio Silone. Beyond the Tragic Vision has many virtues and will 
be invaluable to English-speaking students of Silone. 

Deborah Holmes, The Queen's College, Oxford 


Ugo Spirito. Memoirs of the Twentieth Century. Trans. Anthony Costantini. Atlanta: 
Rodopi, 2000. 

La traduzione delle Memorie di un incosciente di Ugo Spirito da parte di Anthony 
Costantini si inserisce bene nel contesto degli studi sul ventennio fascista in Italia e 
raggiunge finalmente anche i lettori di lingua inglese. Il testo illustra vari eventi, 
problematiche e personalita fondamentali della prima meta del ventesimo secolo, che 
hanno influenzato grandemente |’andamento sociale, politico, culturale e globale di tutto 
quel periodo. 

L’autore é stato protagonista di quegli anni tanto tormentati, ha sperimentato in 
prima persona la crisi del Positivismo, la nascita degli ideali comunisti prima e fascisti 
poi, con la delusione per entrambi, ed é arrivato alla conclusione che la sua ricerca della 
verita in effetti non ha portato risultati. Nell’introduzione il traduttore spiega: “Self- 
awareness and its ability to create and know the world, let alone to create it, are only 
illusions: [...] life remains an enigma” (11). In quel periodo tormentato da due guerre 
mondiali, dall’avvento del Fascismo e del Nazismo, Spirito non vede salvezza dalla crisi 
e diventa testimone di un secolo intero: “Spirito saw his life as exemplary of many other 
intellectuals of his generation” (13). 

Il testo ci porta cosi attraverso i vari momenti di questa crisi, svolti in sequenza 
storica e logica, da un primo capitolo in cui l’autore indica il suo passaggio dal 
Positivismo all’Idealismo fino al Problematicismo per cui il problema, cioé la ricerca, 
“supplanted the solution” (22) in quanto “Man cannot know himself. Self-awareness is 
only an illusion” (24). Insomma, il quesito fondamentale della filosofia occidentale sin 
dai tempi di Socrate, il “chi sono?” non ha risposta, non pud averne, pud solo cercarla, e 
in questa ricerca trovare la sua ragione di essere, la sua coerenza, la coscienza di sé. 
Questo é tutto un periodo in cui tale problematica ¢ fondamentale e si ripercuote in 
innumerevoli autori, tra cui per primi vengono alla mente personalita quali Pirandello e 
Svevo con la sua, per l’appunto, Coscienza di Zeno. 

E proprio a questo punto che vorrei porre un’obiezione a questa altrimenti 
validissima traduzione: al titolo. L’originale italiano, Memorie di un incosciente, viene 
tradotto Memoirs of the Twentieth Century. In questa versione inglese manca, a mio 
parere, proprio uno dei punti fondamentali del ragionamento di Ugo Spirito: “memorie”, 


554  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


quindi coscienza ricordata, di uno che invece é “incosciente”, cioé senza coscienza. Tale 
dicotomia si perde completamente nel titolo inglese pit generico, meno attinente, 
secondo me, agli scopi dell’autore del titolo originale che vuole sottolineare una 
mancanza di “coscienza” e di qui I’inizio della sua ricerca nel secondo capitolo intitolato, 
per l’appunto, “The State of Unawareness”. Proprio perché “incosciente” l’autore deve 
operare questa ricerca, che é valida di per sé, anche se egli scopre ben presto, come ho gia 
indicato prima, che il risultato, cioé il raggiungimento della verita, non solo non verra 
attuato, ma non é nemmeno pit importante rispetto al processo stesso di ricerca. E questo 
il suo “problematicismo”: il porsi quesiti e scandzgliarli indipendentemente dal risultato 
che se ne otterra. II titolo italiano aveva brillantemente riassunto questa problematica, 
mentre quello inglese presenta un’idea molto generica di ricordi e potrebbe svolgersi 
verso tracciati, se non superficiali, certamente affatto diversi. 

II terzo e quarto capitolo illustrano il dilemma attraverso il quale sono passati Spirito 
e parecchi intellettuali italiani, e che li ha portati ad aderire agli ideali fascisti e comunisti 
alternativamente, in un tentativo proprio di dare risposta alla propria crisi. Tutto cid poi 
causera allo Spirito persecuzioni da entrambe le parti, soprattutto per quanto riguarda le 
sue teorie sullo stato corporativo che furono sospettate sia dai fascisti che dai comunisti. 
Oltre a cid, egli imputa a Mussolini i Patti Lateranensi come errore politico fondamentale 
e causa della sua rottura da Giovanni Gentile, accordo fra Chiesa e Stato che Spirito 
ritiene responsabile del passaggio da uno stato secolare ad uno stato confessionale (38), 
con le relative ripercussioni politiche e sociali che questo comporta. D’altra parte, egli 
pensa che anche i governi comunisti “have transformed themselves into ecclesiastical 
systems, police-states backed up by dogmas imposed upon the masses” (49-50). In questo 
modo né il fascismo né il comunismo potevano fornire la soluzione alle sue domande. 

La seconda parte del libro tratta le figure pit influenti del tempo, a ciascuna delle 
quali Spirito dedica un intero capitolo: Giovanni Gentile, Benedetto Croce, Benito 
Mussolini, Giuseppe Bottai, Palmiro Togliatti e papa Paolo VI, includendo personalita 
opposte ma accumunate dal periodo in cui vissero. 

Giovanni Gentile é il maestro a cui Spirito deve la sua formazione intellettuale e la 
guida ai suoi primi passi nel campo della filosofia. Egli ¢ perd anche il maestro da cui 
l’allievo si deve emancipare quando ha raggiunto maturita ed indipendenza. Gentile viene 
ricordato soprattutto, tra l’altro, per la sua direzione alla Enciclopedia Italiana che ha 
avuto la funzione di creare “a new conception of life linked to a metaphysics capable of 
becoming the conscience of a community” (87), per cui i molteplici collaboratori 
all’ Enciclopedia sono riusciti, sotto la direzione di Gentile, a creare un lavoro sistematico 
e coerente in una “collective unity” che fonde scienza ed arte in una singola entita (87). 

Nel capitolo su Mussolini, Spirito riprende |’autodifesa alle accuse che gli erano 
state rivolte per i suoi scritti sul corporativismo, chiedendosi perché Mussolini, che 
sentiva a sé simpatetico, non si sia mai fatto avanti per difenderlo dalle critiche. Nel 
capitolo su Togliatti, Spirito insiste sull’ambiguita dell’uomo politico che “was a 
communist and anticommunist, a fascist and antifascist, a Catholic and an anti-Catholic, a 
bourgeois and an antibourgeois, a democrat and an antidemocrat. He was everything, and 
he was nothing” (123), arrivando anche a parlare dell’approvazione che Togliatti da ai 
Patti Lateranensi, che consentono all’Italia di accettare la religione cattolica quale 
religione dello Stato. Per Spirito questo unico punto suggerisce che la Costituzione 
italiana contenga ancora una forte componente fascista, su cui non credo di poter essere 
d’accordo, in quanto per me il fattore religioso non costitui che uno degli aspetti dello 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 555 


stato fascista di Mussolini. Invece concordo perfettamente con Spirito per 
interpretazione che egli da dei governi di coalizione: “When Communists and 
Democrats want to form a coalition to share political power, it is not a coalition of two 
political forces characterized by equal spiritual values, but only a calculated move aimed 
at reaching a majority capable of governing” (128), da cui poi scaturisce la ben nota 
instabilita dei governi italiani. 

L’ultimo capitolo é dedicato a papa Paolo VI, con cui Spirito cerca un dialogo su di 
un argomento antico: “When must the believer take up arms?” (134), cioé quando un 
fedele € giustificato a partecipare ad un conflitto bellico. Il papa risponde di volere pace e 
non pacifismo, il che non soddisfa il nostro, il quale alla fine si dichiara sconfitto e 
addirittura rifiuta un dialogo futuro con il pontefice: “As far as I am concerned, the 
discussion between the Pope and myself has no other value than to show the impossibility 
of effective contact and collaboration between these two opposing world-views. The two 
world-views have progressively lost the ability to carry on a meaningful dialogue” (135). 
Con tali parole Spirito suggella la sua autobiografia: questa soluzione, come tutte le altre 
soluzioni, é impossibile da raggiungere; il dialogo stesso risulta incapacitato ad essere 
portato avanti. E forse questo il testamento di sconfitta di un’intera generazione. 

I] testo ¢ corredato da note ai singoli capitoli, da una buona bibliografia degli scritti 
di Ugo Spirito e in seguito di altri autori che ne hanno studiato il pensiero, e da 
un’appendice che riporta brevi informazioni sui personaggi storici menzionati nel testo. 
Infine una nota biografica sullo stesso Spirito, delle foto illustrative di momenti 
importanti della sua vita, e un indice di ricerca per argomento o personaggio rendono 
questo libro molto utile a chi voglia intraprendere una ricerca sul periodo e le 
problematiche trattate. Quindi, pur presentando delle inconsistenze di forma (titoli di 
opere citate talora tradotti in inglese, talora no; il suddetto problema del titolo), é questo 
un testo molto valido, in quanto ci rende partecipi del dramma interno di chi é vissuto in 
un’era di novita, crescita, contraddizioni, disillusioni e tragedia. 

Cinzia Donatelli Noble, Brigham Young University 


Paolo Giordano and Anthony Julian Tamburri, eds. Pluralism and Critical Practice. 
Essays in Honor of Albert N. Mancini. Italiana 8. West Lafayette, Ind.: Bordighera 
Press, 1999. Pp. 330. 

A tribute by former students, colleagues, and collaborators “in an editorial capacity,” this 
volume stands out as a well-deserved and worthy tribute to Albert Mancini’s 
distinguished career as scholar, editor, and tireless contributor to the interests of Italian 
studies in the United States. Educated in both Italian and American universities, in his 
work Mancini has drawn from both traditions: specialization, to be sure, but also 
scholarly interests in different areas of Italian literature — a fact readily confirmed by his 
bibliographical profile found at the end of the volume (323-27). Yet, as Remo Ceserani 
points out in the Preface, the most significant aspect of Mancini’s scholarship is 
represented by his steadfast interest in the Seicento novel, which over the years has taken 
the form of essays, bibliographical research and, above all, Romanzi e romanzieri del 
Seicento, a seminal study which, together with the contributions of a few Italian scholars, 
has proved instrumental in establishing a different and largely positive view of 
seventeenth-century narrative. In a related area of his professional life, Albert Mancini 
has edited two vital organs of Italian studies in this country: Forum Italicum, from 1982 


556 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


to 1986, and /talica from 1994 to the present. A meticulous and seasoned editor, as 
steward of these journals, he has maintained high standards of quality and substance, thus 
rendering an invaluable service to our profession, by exercising sound judgment and by 
separating what endures from fashionable trends, substance from flashes in a pan. 

The pluralism indicated in the title of this festschrift is borne out by the 29 essays 
that make up the volume, the diversity of critical practices, and the broad range of subject 
matter that includes articles on Italian letters from Dante to Vittorini, comparative studies 
involving non-Italian authors, and various topics of historical, sociological, and cultural 
interest. 

Proceeding in a chronological fashion, the volume features Dante as the object of 
two studies, the first of which is a comparative analysis by Santa Casciani of the Divina 
commedia and the Roman de la Rose. Juxtaposing the two texts, Casciani argues lucidly 
and through a range of critical sources that the image of the celestial rose in Paradiso 
represents a “serious revision and correction” of the erotic function of the earthly rose 
found in the French text. Then, Dino Cervigni offers a close and erudite analysis dealing 
with the verbal confrontation between Pluto and Virgil in /nferno 7.1, shedding light on 
Pluto’s nearly unintelligible words, “Pape Satan, pape Satan aleppe,” and pointing out 
that the three constituent verbal units “are the parody of the unity and trinity of God” and 
of Christ’s “divine and human nature” (34). Turning to Boccaccio in “L’abito non fa il 
monaco,” Alan Perry studies the “interdependent motifs of disguise and confession” in 
the tale of Tedaldo (Decameron III, 7), which is said to afford “deeper and more 
powerful meaning to Boccaccio’s anticlericalism” (261). In a comparative context, 
Carmine Di Biase brings to our attention several Elizabethan novellas reflecting 
extensive borrowings from both the Decameron and Castiglione’s Cortegiano. The two 
works are said to have offered “artistic lessons” to English authors, serving as “a 
storehouse of characters and plots,” albeit with mediocre results. 

In the area of sixteenth-century literature, we find a learned contribution by Michael 
Lettieri dealing with // capriccio, a Cinquecento comedy by an anonymous Sienese (most 
likely “uno degli Intronati”) called “interessantisimo rifacimento della Casina di Plauto 
trasformata in commedia rusticale” (195). According to Lettieri, the work betrays “lo 
spirito comico di una societa che si compiace di deridere se stessa, dipingendo il proprio 
ritratto con intenti comici e satirici, accentuando fino alla deformazione i suoi tratti 
caratteristici” (200). Relating to the late Cinquecento are two fine pieces of cultural 
interest. Robert Melzi gives first a terse but substantive account of the administration of 
justice in Italy at the time, then examines the representation of lawyers in a few plays 
betraying lack of honesty in the courts and the sad awareness that “the moral fiber of 
lawyers and judges had declined” (222). Rich in linguistic and historical insights, David 
Frantz’s analysis of A World of Wordes (1598), an Italian-English dictionary by John 
Florio, did much to acquaint the British with the Italian language in the seventeenth 
century. 

Turning to the period of special interest to Albert Mancini, Michele Cataudella’s 
“Discorso sul barocco in letteratura” is a substantive overview of the alternating fortunes 
of baroque literature, identified from the start with Marino, “poeta nuovo” and self- 
conscious iconoclast of “gli schemi petrarchevoli” (15). The singularity of Marino’s work 
rests, according to the critic, on Marino’s stress on language and style, the latter 
understood as “forma del conoscere” in concomitance with a novel way of perceiving 
literary expression and the awareness of prospering scientific thought “che riduce ogni 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 557 


cosa a forze e movimenti” (16). Lastly, Cataudella points out that the modern approach to 
the baroque, begun by Croce, tends to see it as “un’esperienza di letteratura e di gusto sua 
propria” grounded on “la retorica dell’anormale e la morfologia del problematico” (16). 
Glenn Pierce’s “Music in Word and Image in the Seicento” studies the close relationship 
between Venetian baroque painting and melodrama reflected in Marco Boschini’s work 
in Venetian verse, Carta del navegar pitoresco (1660), “in which painting is perceived to 
be a form of wondrously choreographed, sounding images” (265). 

Andrea Ciccarelli’s “Nota sulla polemica classico-romantica” is not a note, rather a 
pithy essay on the socio-political ideology informing the dichotomies that separated 
Romanticism and Classicism in the ninenteenth century: the former identified with 
movement and progress, in literary terms with Dante; the latter with stasis and tradition, 
in literature with Petrarch, better with petrarchismo. Also grounded in the realm of 
conceptual activity is a fascinating study by Paul Colilli entitled “Scholia on 
Angelological Cognition,” based on the reflections elicited by Paul Klee’s drawing, 
Angelus Novus, on the part of Walter Benjamin, and more recently Massimo Cacciari and 
Franco Rella. Reminding us that, to this day, cognition of the angelical is “a realm that 
opens up unheard-of interpretive possibilities” (70), Colilli adds that such activity entails 
“disavowing the ordinariness and the banality of the communicable everyday routine and 
replacing it with the wonder of what cannot be said or repeated” (71). As to the angel, it 
“is a figure for the ultralinguistic that involves a movement from reason rooted in the 
logic of a grammar, to a mode of thought that moves within the phantasms that are 
housed in the imagination and which inhabit things” (72). 

The editors of the volume add to its quality with their own contributions, both 
dealing with twentieth-century writers. Paolo Giordano writes on Beppe Fenoglio, whose 
narrative — and // partigiano Johnny in particular — enjoyed a period of intense interest 
in the 1980s. Here Giordano examines closely the plays and writings intended for the 
screen that Fenoglio left behind upon his untimely death in 1963, and he points out that, 
as in Fenoglio’s published works, the dominant themes remain isolation and solitude. 
Anthony Tamburri offers a perceptive reading of Massimo Griffo’s Futuro anteriore 
(1980), a meta-novel boasting as its main characters the narrating Io, Christ and Lenin, 
and in a secondary role, Stalin, Marie Antoinette, Hamlet, and Marx. Tamburri remarks 
that the work “brings to the fore the concept of reality, which, when tied to the notion of 
history, further questions humanity’s notion of itself — past, present, and future — and, 
consequently, the individual’s capacity of hindsight and foresight” (315). Elio Vittorini’s 
Il garofano rosso is the subject of Daniela Cavallaro’s article, which points to the fairy 
tale as the interpreting key to understand the significance of the work. In Svevo’s case, it 
is the French ethical philosopher Emmanuel Lévinas who, in Roland Champagne’s study 
of La coscienza di Zeno, provides the analytical tool enabling the critic to conclude that 
Zeno’s irony and humor are employed as a means aimed at the “dismantling of 
psychoanalysis from the inside” (41). Lastly, Mark Friguglietti turns to Carlo Levi, 
characterizing Cristo si é fermato ad Eboli as “a model of ethnographic procedure” 
owing to the meticulous yet compassionate treatment of the Lucania peasant community 
found in the work. 

Attesting to the broad range of other, especially non-literary, matters present in this 
volume are the description of rare sixteenth-century texts dealing with “le meravigliose 
virtt. del tabacco” (M. Santoro); an enlightening account of “II suicidio d’amore nella 
letteratura pre-cinquecentesca” (L. Monga); the experiences of Giuseppe Pignata, an 


558  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


artist and musician who escaped from Rome’s Inquisition prison, recounted in Les 
aventures de Joseph Pignata published in 1725 (C. Klopp); archival documents relative 
to the “topografia stradale” of Carate Brianza in the late eighteenth century (L. Farina); a 
meticulous albeit unflattering reading of Alfieri’s Vita as the telling sociological 
document authored by a self-absorbed nobleman, devoid of compassion, focused solely 
on his self and the pursuit of fame (A. Mastri); the discussion of a 1786 letter by 
Beaumarchais, discovered by the author of the article and published here, containing 
references to the inventions and improvements to the harp made by Jean-Baptiste 
Krumpholtz, player and composer who was also “responsible for the instrument’s 
popularity” (304, D. Spinelli); the letters of an Ottocento woman writer, Costanza Monti, 
said to deserve greater attention (A. M. Di Martino); the poetic affinities between Carlo 
Betocchi and Verlaine (L. Kibler); the ideology of motherhood found in the works of 
Deledda, Neera, and Serao (L. Salsini); a lively analysis of a controversial French novel, 
Serge Doubrovski’s Le Livre brisé (1989), which “calls the very premise of mimesis into 
stark and startling question” (172, R. Kingcaid); fumetti as a useful pedagogical tool in 
the classroom (V. Gatto); and, hardly less important, Nicolas Perella’s accomplished 
translation of selected poems, nine in all, by Leopardi, Pascoli, D’Annunzio, and Saba. 
With some exceptions, the essays mentioned here are marked by quality and depth, 
merits that make this volume a rich and valuable resource for Italian studies. 
Augustus Pallotta, Syracuse University 


Giuseppe Bonaviri, Giufa e Gesu. Fiaba teatrale in due parti e un epilogo, a cura di 
Sarah Zappulla Muscara, Catania, La Cantinella, Edizioni dell'Istituto di Storia 
dello Spettacolo Siciliano, Collana Il Copione diretta da Enzo Zappulla, 2001, 96 pp. 
Carmine di Biase, Bonaviri e l'oltre. L'opera intera, Napoli, Edizioni Scientifiche 
Italiane, 2001, 365 pp. 
L’opera di Giuseppe Bonaviri, pur restituendo il mondo etnico-geografico originario 
(Mineo, in provincia di Catania, dove é nato nel 1924) e l'esperienza di vita susseguente 
(il trasferimento a Frosinone, I'attivita di medico, la dedizione alla scrittura) nei suoi dati 
familiari e sociali, ¢ determinata da trasposizioni letterarie che comprendono una poetica 
dell'evocazione espressionistica, lirica, sacrale; una concezione panica degli esseri umani 
come entita immedesimate con la natura terrestre, l'infinito subatomico e l'immensita 
dell'universo; una visione esistenziale della storia-fiume che scorre in profondita 
nell'eternita dei ritmi ciclici arcaici e solo in superficie al passo con la storia sociologica e 
politica; una coscienza della fragilita determinata dalla malattia e dalla morte; una 
mentalita mitizzante; una consapevolezza psicologica degli archetipi compendiata da un 
interesse per I'arcano, la magia, l'alchimia; la formulazione di ipotesi di scienza fantastica 
frammiste a motivi autenticamente scientifici; il senso del fiabesco e i percorsi allegorici 
del viaggio di ricerca e della metamorfosi; simboli a pid significati; una tendenza ad 
operare con materiali reali e onirici al confine tra veglia e sogno; un'intertestualita 
intricata; un linguaggio e strutture sperimentali. Il denso intreccio di questi motivi si 
ritrova in misura maggiore 0 minore nell'intera sua opera: dalle poesie, alla narrativa, ai 
testi teatrali, ai saggi. 

In Giufa e Gesu. Fiaba teatrale in due parti e un epilogo (con prefazione, intitolata 
“L’incantevole mondo di Giuseppe Bonaviri” di Sarah Zappulla Muscara, 9-14, e una 
bibliografia delle opere di Bonaviri e di alcuni scritti critici, 15-21), la Luna sprofonda in 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 559 


un abisso della Terra, viene esplorata dai due personaggi del titolo (piu terrestre il primo, 
Giufa, derivato dalla tradizione popolare, e pid spiritualmente connotato il secondo, Gest) 
e da altri personaggi, tra i quali un coro di bambini, i personaggi dell'epica e dei pupi 
Orlando e Orlandino, i tre apostoli Matteo, Giovanni e Luca, e Beethoven, Livingstone, 
Einstein (questi ultimi tre rispondenti pid da vicino ai loro tratti storici), nonché un 
“cartone animato” di nome Lulu, materializzatosi da un computer per mano di Einstein. 
Nei dialoghi del testo si lamenta la caduta del mito (la leopardiana caduta della Luna 
come in Odi Melisso) e si ricerca per diverse vie (magiche e scientifiche) l'immortalita. La 
fiaba si conclude con una proiezione utopica: operando una metamorfosi, Livingstone 
fonde in uno Gest e Lulu in un luminoso personaggio Gesululi, che per clonazione si 
riprodurra a migliaia e migliaia. Tale “soggetto nuovo, sconosciuto all'umanita”, di 
innocenza fanciullesca, ha lo scopo di “diffondere l'uomo sotto forma di bambini, che mai 
invecchieranno, in milioni di granelli per l'universo; e questi bambini apporteranno la 
Fantasia e il Sogno” (76) non solo nel nostro universo, ma anche nell'antimateria, 
nell’“anti-universo” che “investiranno di raggi amorosi” (80). Una nascita che si 
determina da un universo concepito alchemicamente come uovo, scientificamente come 
scontro di elettroni, letterariamente come dimensione in cui la realta e il fantastico 
coesistono, percorso da memorie ancestrali e dalla modernita, da invocazioni al divino (il 
Dio nominato é@ Allah) e dall'asserzione dell'essenza relativistica della materia. II 
linguaggio € semplice e comunicativo. I] tono espositivo congiunge il colloquiale e il 
filosofico. Ai dialoghi si alternano filastrocche e poesie. L'elemento surreale ha lo scopo 
di una parabola, di una critica dell'alienazione e di una fiducia nella positivita del 
progresso purché esso non venga distaccato dalle motivazioni sociali, sacrali e speculative 
del vivere. Si riconferma un Bonaviri allo stesso tempo solidamente lucido e lievemente 
fiabesco. 

Secondo Carmine Di Biase, Gesu e Giufa conduce in un “suggestivo oltre”, come si 
legge a p. 160 di Bonaviri e l'oltre. L'opera intera. I saggio di Di Biase, che amplia, 
aggiorna e completa la sua precedente monografia Giuseppe Bonaviri. La dimensione 
dell’oltre (Napoli, Cassitto, 1994), affronta l’opera completa di Bonaviri, articolando 
l’argomentazione, variegata e complessa, sulla base del concetto dell’“oltre” bonaviriano, 
inteso come tracciato che include il quotidiano ma si protende verso il cosmico; visione 
circolare dell’io, del tempo e dello spazio; passaggio dalla realta al sogno e dall’universo 
materiale a quello immateriale; viaggio nell’interiorita; con una suddivisione in sette 
capitoli appropriatamente dedicati a tempo, cosmo, poesia, mito, fiaba, saggistica e 
analogia. Nell’opera di Bonaviri, “le radici primigenie”, scrive Di Biase, “reclamano 
come un riscatto interiore, umano e stilistico, verso aperture e spazi infiniti, che non sono 
solo ‘metapolitici e metasociali’, come é stato rilevato, ma meta-fisici, come postulazione 
e ricerca di una nuova dimensione dell’essere, che preferiamo indicare come ‘dimensione 
dell’oltre’: [...] una nuova forma di poesia cosmica, che trasfigura l’umano, mentre lo 
interpreta e lo esige” (34-35). 

L'opera di Bonaviri ha un ruolo importante in quella linea ermetica, fantastica, 
esistenziale forse meno esplorata di altre nella nostra storia letteraria. Tra i volumi ad essa 
dedicati di recente si ricordano, oltre a quello di Di Biase, Franco Musarra, Scrittura della 
memoria, memoria della scrittura. L'opera narrativa di Giuseppe Bonaviri (Leuven 
University Press e Firenze, Cesati, 1999), saggio linguistico e stilistico; Sarah Zappulla 
Muscara e Enzo Zappulla, Bonaviri inedito (Catania, La Cantinella, 1998) studio 
biografico e bibliografico; Franco Zangrilli, Sicilia, isola-cosmo (Ravenna, Longo, 1998), 


560 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


contenente un saggio di Zangrilli e una lunga intervista con Bonaviri. Sia infine consentito 
citare (a cura dello scrivente e contenente un suo saggio e uno di Sarah Zappulla Muscara) 
l'intervista Minuetto con Bonaviri, Dublino, Italian Department, Trinity College e Torino, 
Trauben, 2001. 

Roberto Bertoni, Trinity College, Dublin 


Mary Ann Frese Witt. The Search for Modern Tragedy. Aesthetic Fascism in Italy 
and France. Ithaca: Cornell UP, 2001. Pp. xii+259. 

“It is exactly because Hecuba is nothing to us that her sorrows are such an admirable 
motive for a tragedy.” This, at least, is what claims Vivian, the main voice of Wilde’s The 
Decay of Lying, for whom “modernity of form and modernity of subject matter are 
entirely and absolutely wrong.” Yet, Mary Ann Frese Witt’s new book shows us that, 
paradoxically, it is precisely by being “out on the hillside with Apollo,” as Vivian 
recommends, that artists and intellectuals can contribute to the life of the present. 
Furthermore, this book underscores how — far from irreconcilable — tragedy, 
modernity, and art’s engagement with the real world are already intertwined in the fin-de- 
siécle context to which the Wildean Vivian and his aestheticist cult belong. 

Starting from an exploration of the connection between the theatrical quality of 
fascist manifestations and drama as a literary genre, The Search for Modern Tragedy. 
Aesthetic Fascism in Italy and France investigates the neglected links between the 
revival of ancient tragedy that animates much early 20""-century European literature, and 
the desire for an ideal modern tragedy that permeates fascist ideology. Its main aim is to 
demonstrate that, if fascist theatricality influenced the artistic and literary domain, the 
role of tragedy in art even anticipates issues that will become crucial in the fascist 
aesthetics of politics and in its revolutionary agenda. 

Differentiating the aesthetic appeal of fascism from its political agenda without 
rendering them mutually exclusive, Witt introduces the notion of “aesthetic fascism” to 
designate “the aesthetic approach to fascism” (8) adopted by representative Italian and 
French writers in their attempt to create a modern tragedy able to renew culture through a 
recuperation of antiquity. This project of a heroic regeneration conflating aesthetic, 
religious, and theatrical elements, to be sure, passes through Nietzsche’s thought, but 
becomes the hallmark of a sort of glorious Mediterranean and Latin temper which 
ultimately nourishes the fascist ideology. 

This fusion of antiquity and modernity through tragedy, however, although invoked 
with insistence by Italian and French artists and intellectuals even before the fascist 
period, and attempted with a vengeance once the regime is in place, does not lead to 
definitive results. The book reconstructs salient moments of an enterprise that remains a 
search. The efforts to generate a modern tragedy able to resurrect mythical values in view 
of an allegedly purer future, worthy of a nationalist and imperial ideal, also expose the 
ambivalence of the project, and often suggest the impossibility of ever attaining such a 
heroic new era, while simultaneously positing the need for a constant creative endeavor. 

Chapter one, “Theatricality and Tragedy in Fascist Italy,” examines the strategic use 
of staging under Mussolini as a way of promoting mass consensus and cohesion through 
spectacle. Furthermore, Witt rightly calls attention to the binding effect created by 
fascism’s exploitation of ritual and religion in particular, hence to a spiritual and not 
merely political and blatantly propagandistic appeal. It is in the fascist attempt to 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 561 


transcend mere propaganda in favor of a mystic climate that Witt locates the impulse to 
renew theatrical production by reviving ancient tragedy. The dramatic poet’s heroic task 
is to sublimate consensus ideology through aesthetic expression. 

Yet, this mystical power of the word fostering a communion of spirits, which 
fascism envisions in its ideal dramatic form, is already central to D’Annunzio’s theatrical 
poetics well before Mussolini’s politics of spectacle, as we can appreciate in the second 
chapter. “D’Annunzio’s Nietzschean Tragedy” analyzes major dramas written by “il 
Vate” as a creative interpreter of the Dionysian-Apollonian dialectic underlying 
Nietzsche’s theory of tragedy: La citta morta, Fedra, La figlia di Iorio, La nave, La 
gloria, Pi che l’amore. According to Witt, in D’Annunzio’s mythical and ritualistic 
theater the recovery of primal energies intends to sweep away 19""-century bourgeois 
artistic canons and political views by merging classical drama with a modernity of 
inspiration founded as much upon the Wagnerian notion of total artwork as upon a tangle 
of aesthetics and politics that prefigures the Duce’s dictator-orator role, both thematically 
and stylistically. 

If, on the one hand, D’Annunzio’s aesthetics transforms the chorus of classical 
tragedy into a unanimous collective voice (soon to become the mass consensus in favor 
of fascist political grandiosity, just as the poetic genius shades off into the warrior and 
conqueror), Pirandello’s theater, on the other, seems to suggest no evident political 
underpinnings. The chapter “Pirandellian Fascism, Metatragedy, and Myth,” however, 
claims that, in fact, a link can be drawn between Pirandello’s alleged fascist faith and the 
aesthetics of his modern drama. Witt substantiates her argument with the aid of Henry IV, 
L’imbecille, La vita che ti diedi, La nuova colonia, Lazzaro, and I giganti della 
montagna. As interested as D’Annunzio in transcending the values of bourgeois theater 
to generate a timeless mythological world, Pirandello emerges from this chapter as the 
creator of modern tragic figures caught in the strife between life and form, who, unlike 
their classical antecedents, do not conceal but rather exhibit the chaos of existence. 
Therefore, to a higher degree than D’Annunzio’s self-conscious theater, Pirandello’s 
drama is, for Witt, “metatragic,” precisely because as it refashions the forms of antique 
tragedy, it also underscores the loss of the certainties of antiquity in the modern world. 
Pirandello is an aesthetic fascist because his modern myths stage what the ideological and 
political world of fascism presents as the need for new spiritual models, subject to the 
ongoing struggle and reconciliation between human vitality and political structure. 
Pirandello’s constructed and ever-changing truths can ultimately be said to echo the myth 
of a creative and regenerative movement that fascism co-opted to legitimize itself, while 
at the same time, as Witt insists, they manage to expose “metatragically” the problems of 
those very constructions. 

The Italian fascists, however, do not only owe a great deal to towering literary 
figures of their own homeland. French intellectuals like Sorel and Maurras played a 
relevant role in Mussolini’s ideology, while the Duce, in his turn, was greatly admired by 
the Action Francaise movement. The second half of Witt’s book is devoted to such 
French authors as Maulnier, Drieu de la Rochelle, Brasillach, Montherlant, and Anouilh, 
who were all attracted by the aesthetic and, simultaneously, the political power of the 
tragic, while rejecting the vulgar mass phenomena associated with fascism. 

These authors’ works — meaningful instances of French aesthetic fascism of the 
1930s, the topic of chapter four — rely, no less than their Italian counterparts, upon the 
Nietzschean tragic man as a superior individual entitled to lead the people, as Maulnier 


562 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


reveals with his Nietzsche. This emphasis on tragedy as a source of mythic regeneration 
is inseparable from the celebration of Mediterranean culture as the embodiment of 
Dionysian forces, and as the cradle of a sort of European nationalism. Mediterranean 
classical humanism is, not accidentally, also central to Brasillach’s ideal of political and 
cultural rebirth, which, asserting a continuity between French absolutism and modern 
politics through aesthetics, even turns a playwright like Corneille into a sort of 
protofascist. Just as neoclassical tragedy is the poetic form of the French royalist regime, 
modern tragedy, Witt claims, constitutes the poetic form of French fascism. Brasillach’s 
Bérénice represents the most extreme example of this aesthetic and political recuperation 
of classical drama: Racine’s characters act as mouthpieces for the most detrimental 
aspects of the fascist ideology, such as a strong antisemitic stance. For his part, Drieu de 
la Rochelle pushes Brasillach’s aesthetic fascism one step further, in the service of a pan- 
European, totalitarian notion of the West, in which fascism — passing again through a 
Nietzschean tragic struggle, violence and sacrifice — becomes what for Witt is a quest 
for aesthetic plenitude. 

A discussion of Montherlant’s and Anouilh’s theater under the German occupation, 
as a legacy of the French fascist aesthetic previously examined, concludes the volume. 
Classical drama and Nietzschean notions of Dionysian violence and Apollonian purity of 
form converge into an aesthetic project aimed at purging tragedy of its bourgeois 
decadent residues, and ultimately taking on the form of a tension between Aryan and 
Jewish qualities. An admirer of D’Annunzio, Montherlant shapes his characters upon 
mythical heroes, turning them into protagonists of a spectacle of war bound to reach 
tragic splendor. Heroic patriotism beyond mediocrity and the vulgarity of money also 
informs Anouilh’s works, which, as they rewrite myths for modernity, reinforce the 
tenets of aesthetic fascism and the rhetoric of collaborationist critics. In her reading of 
Antigone, Witt shows us how Anouilh substantiates the connection between the idea of 
modern tragedy as agon and the political ideology of endless strife, racial superiority, and 
death so popular in Vichy France. 

The Search for Modern Tragedy is a truly comparative work. Unlike the too many 
improvised comparatists who juggle with the discipline without adequate multilingual 
and multicultural skills, Witt has produced a serious and well-balanced work, moving 
with competence and elegance between two literatures and cultures. The author 
establishes a very engaging dialogue between the Italian and the French domain, 
supported by careful documentary research. The result is a study revealing remarkable 
originality of thought, not an easy task in the field of the relationships between fascism 
and literature, which continues to see a very rich output of academic studies. As it 
positions itself within a tradition of critical works that had in part touched upon those 
issues in individual Italian or French authors, The Search for Modern Tragedy 
successfully demonstrates that “aesthetic fascism” is a large and consistent phenomenon 
that develops according to specific parameters valid across national boundaries. Witt’s 
book provides readers with convincing evidence by paying attention to cultural 
background without sacrificing close readings of representative primary texts, by 
highlighting the authors’ reception in the fascist aesthetics of their time, and by 
underscoring the often overlooked interaction between Italian and French authors. Since 
Nietzsche is a constant reference point in the writers analyzed by Witt, and equally 
central to her argument on the regenerative role of modern tragedy, one might perhaps 
have liked to find more critical engagement with several Nietzschean notions, such as his 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 563 


attitude vis-a-vis decadence, more articulated and ambivalent than just a negative aspect 
to be overcome. Nevertheless, to be sure, The Search for Modern Tragedy enriches 
considerably our understanding of the aesthetics of fascism, of its origins, and of its 
complex relationships with fascist political ideology. It will certainly bring fresh air to the 
scholarly debates on a literary and political period about which, both on the Italian and 
French front, we thought we had already been told everything (and even too much). 
Nicoletta Pireddu, Georgetown University 


Bart Van den Bosche. “Nulla é veramente accaduto". Strategie discorsive del mito 
nell’opera di Cesare Pavese, Leuven University Press (Nuova Serie 5), Firenze, 
Franco Cesati Editore, 2001, 449 pagine. 

L’onnipresenza del mito nell’opera di Cesare Pavese e la sua centralita come espressione 
genuina degli interessi pavesiani é il punto di partenza di questo documentato saggio di 
Bart Van den Bosche dove echeggia anche |’importanza che la critica ha tradizionalmente 
attribuito al mito per valutare il significato letterario e storico di Pavese. 

Lo scopo di questo studio é di rintracciare in modo sistematico |’articolazione 
discorsiva del mito nell’autore alla luce di alcuni quesiti generali attinenti alla 
configurazione del mito nel Novecento: il mito come tipo di racconto (di contenuto 
fondamentalmente tradizionale); come paradigma della mente umana (vs. la ragione, il 
logos, la scienza, la storia...); come elemento determinante di oggetti o pratiche culturali 
(miti politici, del costume, del mondo contemporaneo...); come preconcetto e 
rappresentazione collettiva “falsa”, che si contrappone alla “verita” oggettiva, ecc. In tutti 
i casi, la polisemia del mito nella cultura moderna e contemporanea si presenta quale un 
riflesso della sua tipologia discorsiva. Van den Bosche adotta un’ottica analitica che 
respinge |’idea di una pacifica continuita semantica e storica del mito in Pavese, in modo 
tale che coglie la polisemia del mito come una varieta di dimensioni nella loro 
interpretazione pragmatica, seguendo modalita diverse secondo gli scritti pavesiani. Si 
parte da una concezione “nominalista” del mito nell’Otto-Novecento, e cioé dalla storia 
delle formazioni discorsive in cui il mito ha svolto un ruolo pil’ o meno centrale. In 
questo modo, il saggio analizza i seguenti aspetti chiave: 1) il rapporto fra mito e 
discorso: nel mondo moderno, esso si configura come un essere ol/tre il mito, insieme a 
una nostalgia del mito, inteso come espressione genuina di purezza e ingenuita; 2) la 
continuita e identita del mito sotto l’apparente diversita: il mito come sfera oggettuale 
“leggibile” di cui si pud enunciare la verita; 3) il pensiero mitico come alternativa 
all’alienazione moderna. L’indagine condotta sul mito in Pavese analizza il potenziale 
mito-poietico dei singoli testi pavesiani, in una duplice linea: ricostruire le varie strategie 
che presiedono I|’articolazione semiotica e concettuale del mito come oggetto discorsivo 
(ricognizione discorsivo-semiotica); e considerare i singoli atti discorsivi della poetica del 
mito alla luce della loro singolarita discorsiva (analisi discorsivo-enunciativa). 

Il saggio presenta l’opera pavesiana alla luce di queste considerazioni seguendo 
l’ordine cronologico e analizzando i momenti salienti della sua produzione letteraria, 
dall’inizio, nel 1930 (anno della stesura de J mari del Sud, che inaugura Lavorare 
stanca), il quale coincide anche con |’inizio dell’attivita di Pavese come traduttore e 
saggista. La suddivisione cronologica, e non tematica, dei vari capitoli non cerca di 
rintracciare una linea evolutiva coerente, ma solo di facilitare |’analisi, senza pretendere 
di essere uno studio contestuale a tutto campo. Al contrario, essa si concentra nei legami 


564 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


tra i vari spazi discorsivi dell’opera pavesiana. 

Il primo capitolo, “Lavorare stanca: immagine, enunciazione, trasfigurazione”, 
tratta delle poesie scritte soprattutto tra il 1930 e il 1940 (dalla trasfigurazione fantastica 
alle poesie del confino e dalle Poesie del disamore alla chiusura) e della sperimentazione 
nel verso di taglio epico. L’indagine sugli effetti mitici porta Van den Bosche a 
soffermarsi su peculiarita metriche della poesia pavesiana e sull’impiego “arcaico” 
dell’enjambement, principalmente tra sostantivo e attributo. 

"Il mestiere della poetica, la poetica del mestiere” (capitolo II), invece, pone tutta 
l’attenzione sulle attivita di Pavese come americanista, analizzando anche il passaggio da 
Il mestiere di poeta a Il mestiere di vivere come una sperimentazione nella scrittura 
diaristica e poetica avvicinabile, per certi aspetti, allo Zibaldone di Leopardi, oppure ai 
Journaux intimes di Baudelaire. Si tratta di una parte dell’ opera dell’autore delle Langhe 
profondamente intertestuale, vera spia del carattere dialogico del tessuto discorsivo 
pavesiano. 

“Narrazione e interesse simbolico: i racconti degli anni 1936-1941” (capitolo III), 
invece, studia gli scritti dopo il confino, tra il discorso morale e la costruzione simbolica 
(come, per esempio, il racconto lungo intitolato // carcere, che sviluppa l’idea del 
possesso interiore; oppure Paesi tuoi, con la sua simbologia campagnola, cosi come La 
spiaggia; nello stesso senso, va ricordata La bella estate, dove affiorano simboli 
sommersi e l’idea ossessiva dell’autocontrollo). 

II capitolo IV, dal titolo “Il laboratorio del mito”, costituisce senza dubbio una parte 
centrale di questo saggio, che sviluppa il suo tema principale intorno al paesaggio, 
l’infanzia e la memoria. In questo capitolo viene analizzata la poetica del mito in Pavese, 
la cui evoluzione, nell’interpretazione di Van den Bosche, si svolge secondo 
un’economia della sovrapposizione e del movimento a spirale. L’immaginario pavesiano 
si arricchisce dal 1942 in poi con |’indagine mnemosica, e raggiunge la teorizzazione del 
“mito-unita” come legame tra la categoria della esperienza e la genesi dell’immaginario e 
della visione del mondo. In questa sede Van den Bosche conclude che la memoria 
pavesiana é il /ocus della celebrazione del mito personale, concepito appunto come 
momento transitorio, e quindi come un “non luogo”. 

La tappa posteriore alla liberazione viene analizzata nel capitolo seguente: “Feria 
d'agosto: polifonia discorsiva e sintassi narrativa”, al quale segue |’importante capitolo 
VI, “Dialogare con il mito: intorno ai Dialoghi con Leuco”, incardinato sulla produzione 
dell’autore dell’immediato dopoguerra, e cioé del Pavese engagé. Qui la poetica del mito 
si inserisce in un nuovo profilo culturale e anche professionale. In questo capitolo viene 
sottolineata l’importanza del paesaggio come ispiratore di fascino in Pavese, risultato di 
situazioni inconsapevoli nell’autore e dipendenti dalla memoria. La presentazione dei 
Dialoghi si inserisce nella strategia di rappresentazione del mito come universo 
discorsivo familiare che si manifesta nell’uso di un linguaggio di livello medio e 
colloquiale. L’operazione di base dei Dialoghi si presenta come una ricognizione della 
pluri-scomponibilita del linguaggio simbolico peculiare del mito al fine di mettere alla 
prova la sua capacita d’esprimere problematiche esistenziali e culturali contemporanee. 
L’autore analizza le varie strategie di riscrittura del mito classico, operazione complessa 
che acquista un effetto di straniamento per il lettore moderno. 

“Mito, storia, narrazione: saggi e romanzi, 1947-1950” (capitolo VII) presenta il 
momento in cui l’apologia del mito in Pavese coincide con la sua tappa di massimo 
prestigio letterario, e presenta l’autore come un classico contemporaneo gia dal Premio 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 565 


Strega ottenuto per La bella estate. In questo capitolo si analizzano opere come I/ 
compagno (un Bildungsroman politico) 0 La casa in collina, un romanzo a sfondo 
indubbiamente autobiografico, per approdare a // diavolo sulle colline che enfatizza non 
solo gli aspetti selvatici della natura, ma anche il contatto con gli elementi naturali come 
un’immersione panica negli elementi primordiali; e, per ultimo, Tra donne sole, un 
romanzo del 1949, dove spicca |’analisi del destino della protagonista, Clelia, e della sua 
riuscita sociale. Il capitolo si chiude con lo studio di La luna e i fald, sul tema della 
ricerca della propria identita nel ritorno in paese, che costituisce un vero riassunto 
dell’ opera pavesiana anteriore. 

Nelle conclusioni, Van den Bosche, pur ammettendo |’onnipresenza del mito 
nell’opera pavesiana sin dai saggi sulla letteratura americana, rinuncia, cid nonostante, a 
tracciare un profilo unitario del termine “mito” in Pavese. Del resto, secondo Van den 
Bosche, i riferimenti al mito svolgono diverse funzioni, a volte persino contrarie, e sono 
investiti da significati e connotazioni vari, per cui si deve parlare di una poetica del mito 
non univoca ma dinamica (semanticamente e funzionalmente) in Pavese, nella quale si 
passa dal mito come racconto tradizionale (da 1930 ai primi anni ’40), alla concrezione 
del 1943, quando il mito diventa nell’autore delle Langhe il luogo di un investimento 
teorico e concettuale consistente. E pit tardi ancora, nell’immediato dopoguerra, quando 
il mito si concreta come uno strumento per partecipare al dibattito culturale italiano, 
costituendo una poetica del mito intesa come meccanismo di storicizzazione e 
razionalizzazione (e cioé, come dispositivo discorsivo di mediazione tra razionale e 
irrazionale), e come principio di distanza critica nei confronti delle pratiche culturali. 

La presenza ricorrente del mito nelle opere di finzione di Pavese viene interpretata 
da Van den Bosche come strategie di rappresentazione e visioni del mondo che registrano 
una graduale tematizzazione discorsiva da Feria d'agosto in poi. Tale presenza della 
poetica del mito non é mai lineare in Pavese. Non si riduce ad un’evocazione delle 
mitologie individuali dei personaggi, ma assume |’aspetto di una rappresentazione mitica 
in fieri, e delle contraddizioni tra le affermazioni esplicite e le intenzioni taciute di tale 
processo di miticizzazione. Di qui possiamo concludere che Pavese mette in scena il 
rapporto a volte paradossale tra il mito e la sua interpretazione-riduzione, rapporto che 
struttura anche le vicende dei singoli personaggi delle sue opere. 

Il saggio di Van den Bosche si chiude con un’esaustiva e aggiornata bibliografia 
critica su Pavese che completa questo interessante, utile e ben documentato contributo 
alla critica pavesiana. 

Assumpta Camps, Universita di Barcellona 


Joseph Tusiani. Ethnicity. Selected Poems. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera Press, 2000. 
Pp. 106. 
This volume, edited by Paolo Giordano, offers a representative selection of poems by one 
of the most distinguished writers of Italian American literature, the internationally known 
Joseph Tusiani. Since the volume also includes two essays and a bibliographical profile 
on Tusiani authored by Paolo Giordano, Ethnicity is also a most useful introduction to 
Tusiani’s remarkable accomplishments. 

Born in 1924 in the Gargano region of Southern Italy, Tusiani emigrated to the 
United States in 1947, where he began his career as a professor of Italian and worked in a 


566 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


number of colleges and universities, including the College of Mount Saint Vincent, 
Herbert H. Lehman College, Hunter College, Fordham University, and New York 
University. Throughout the years, Tusiani has distinguished himself as a translator of a 
great number of Italian classics, but it is in the field of creative writing, especially poetry, 
that Tusiani’s international reputation rests. Tusiani’s poetry centers on a thematic and 
linguistic exploration of the Italian immigrant experience in North America, of which the 
present volume provides an excellent sample by anthologizing twenty-three compositions 
from Gente mia and Other Poems. Since this collection, which originally appeared in 
1981, was a most important milestone in the creation of self-awareness and self-esteem 
for the Italian American heritage, the selection contained in Ethnicity also represents an 
important homage to Tusiani’s achievements. 

The first section of Ethnicity, titled “From Gente mia,” is comprised of fourteen 
compositions and opens with the famed “Song of the Bicentennial,” which is arguably 
among Tusiani’s best-known poems. In six separate stanzas, the poet’s voice examines 
many of the issues experienced by both recent and naturalized immigrants. Here are 
expressed the sentiments that derive from the tragic separation from one’s native land, 
culture, family, and friends as well as the experiences of those who, having settled in the 
host country, remain uneasily poised between cultural, conceptual, and linguistic borders 
or, in Tusiani’s words, divided between “[t]wo languages, two lands, perhaps two souls?” 
(4). The poems that follow the “Song” provide additional exploration of these themes. 
The existential problem of uprootedness, often followed by the realization that the 
country of immigration is not the dreamland that people believed it to be, is at the center 
of compositions such as “Ethnicity,” “Columbus Day in New York,” and “Ellis Island.” 
In addition, this section also comprises a number of poems that put into practice a self- 
reflexive statement contained in the “Song,” namely, that the task of poetry is to assure 
that the lives of the immigrants will not be forgotten, or in Tusiani’s words, “I speak and 
write / because they dreamed that I would write and speak / about their unrecorded death 
and night” (6). Indeed, from Tusiani’s writings, an entire constellation of anonymous 
lives emerges and, among these, several are particularly noteworthy. They include the 
goatherd of “The Italian Goat,” who was slain with impunity by a Dr. Vandercook; 
Brumidi, a painter for whom his tool was his true freedom, from “I, Costantino Brumidi,” 
and especially the mason Angelo, from “The Ballad of the Coliseum.” With this poem, in 
addition to revisiting the existential pathos generated by the act of separation from one’s 
land, Tusiani explores the tragic dimension of the life of immigrants who, while trying to 
realize their dreams and aspirations, did not shun away from hard work and often 
perished in the process. 

The second section of this anthology, titled “Other Poems,” contains compositions 
that are more rooted in Tusiani’s personal history. Although this sort of composition was 
present in the first section of the volume, notably in the memory of Tusiani’s father, from 
“The Difficult Word,” his grandmother, from “Ode to an Illiterate Poet,” and his uncle 
Joe, from “In Memoriam: Joe Pisano,” it is in this second group of compositions that 
Tusiani’s autobiography becomes the greatest inspiration for his poetry. Tusiani not only 
devotes two compositions to his father, namely, “To My Father (The Day After his 
Funeral)” and “The Old Chair’; but, in “Ethnic Quartet,” he recreates his family 
genealogy and offers the reader the unforgettable portrait of maternal and paternal 
grandparents who had a fundamental impact on Tusiani’s life. The remaining poems are 
devoted to the celebration of the lives of those emigrants who, like Father Chino, an 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 567 


explorer of California, and Father Ravalli, a Jesuit from Ferrara and founder of the 
college of Santa Clara in California, remained for the most part forgotten by official 
history. As such, they came to share the fate of myriad other, humbler immigrants. 

As I have previously mentioned, this volume also includes two essays and a 
bibliographical profile written by Paolo Giordano, a devoted scholar and a leading expert 
of Tusiani’s work. While Giordano’s profile offers, in addition to a brief biographical 
sketch of Tusiani, a complete bibliography of Tusiani’s writing, Giordano’s essays 
provide a solid account of the themes and issues that have shaped Tusiani’s creative 
activity. In the first essay, titled “From Southern Italian Emigrant to Reluctant 
American,” Giordano provides a broad overview of the themes of Tusiani’s Gente mia 
before focusing on an issue that is especially relevant to the poet, namely, the question of 
the loss of one’s original language. In the remainder of this essay, Giordano also pays 
close attention to Tusiani’s representation of ethnic and national integration through 
rituals by insightful readings of poems such as “The Day after the Feast” and “Columbus 
Day in New York.” Giordano argues that, while in the first poem the feast of Our Lady of 
Mount Carmel allows the immigrants to momentarily forget the tragedy of uprootedness, 
in the second one the recapturing of traditional Italian festivities is no longer possible, 
since rituals have now been integrated into, and therefore co-opted by, American culture. 

The second essay by Giordano, titled “The Writer between Two Worlds,” includes 
an important discussion of the condition of living across cultural borders that Tusiani had 
voiced in his “Song of the Bicentennial.” Focusing upon Tusiani’s autobiographical 
trilogy, Autobiografia di un italo-americano (1988-1992), Giordano contends that, even 
though this work appears to lead to the end of the immigrant experience brought about by 
the assimilation of Italian culture into the American one, it is written in Italian. This 
choice of language, as the bibliography of Rose Basile Green’s The Italian-American 
Novel indicates, is most significant. Unlike most works of Italian American literature that 
are typically composed in English, Tusiani’s autobiography maintains his original 
language. By so doing, it is symptomatic of its author’s acceptance of being poised 
between two cultural and temporal systems: the culture and memory of the Italian past, 
and that of the American present and future. 

A well-planned, representative selection of Tusiani’s poetry, Ethnicity is a welcome 
addition to the ever-growing bibliography of Italian American Studies. The critical 
apparatus is not only useful to those unfamiliar with Tusiani’s works, but is engaging 
enough to stimulate further exploration of Tusiani’s oeuvre. Hence, the volume is likely 
to appeal to a wide audience and will undoubtedly be useful in both undergraduate and 
graduate courses devoted to an exploration of ethnic writing in the United States. 

Norma Bouchard, The University of Connecticut, Storrs 


Carlo Lucarelli. Almost Blue. Trans. Oonagh Stransky. San Francisco: City Lights 
Books, 2001. Pp. 184. 

In recent years, the detective story, or giallo, has grown increasingly in popularity in 
Italy. Carlo Lucarelli, born in 1960 in Parma, is one of Italy’s most successful and 
prolific writers of gialli and noir novels. He is the creator and host for the television 
programs, Mistero in blu, and Blu notte, in which he narrates unresolved Italian murder 
cases in the style of a giallo. He is a creative writing instructor at Baricco’s Scuola 
Holden in Torino, edits an online magazine, /Jncubatoio 16, writes screenplays for videos, 


568  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


writes comic strips, and collaborated with Dario Argento on his most recent film, 
Nonhosonno (2001). In addition to multiple short story contributions to anthologies and 
literary journals, Lucarelli has written eleven novels; his most recent is Un giorno dopo 
l’altro (2000). Almost Blue (1997) is the first to be translated into English. In 2000, it was 
made into a film directed by Alex Infascelli. 

Almost Blue, blending pulp fiction with the fantastic, recounts Grazia Negro’s quest 
to identify and capture a serial killer in Bologna who has been brutally murdering 
university students. She receives assistance from an unusual source, a blind man, Simone, 
with an affinity for listening to police scanners and radios. He claims to be able to 
identify the killer merely by the sound of his voice. “I don’t like him. His voice is green. 
It sidles up to the distorted bass playing softly in the background, pushing it back like a 
flap of skin. [...] There’s something about it that sends shivers up my spine. It’s as if 
there’s another sound inside it” (36-37). The killer, known as the Iguana, suffers from a 
psychosis due to a series of childhood traumas. Lucarelli’s research into the psychology 
of the psycho-killer in preparation for writing this novel has resulted in the creation of a 
curiously complicated serial killer. It is difficult for the reader not to feel some empathy 
for the Iguana and the unbearable pain and suffering he has had to endure. He hears 
unremittingly bells in his head, which cause him such excruciating pain that he kills in 
order to find release. “The bells from hell. They ring constantly day and night, they toll 
through my head and bones as if my brain itself was a living bell, cracking and pealing 
with every knell” (14). In an attempt to drown out the clanging source of the pain, he 
constantly wears headphones and listens to loud music. He believes himself to be 
possessed by a demon reptilian monster that tortures him into killing. When he kills, he 
then changes his appearance, chameleon-like, assuming the identity of his victim with the 
hope that he can escape the demon by donning a new guise. As Grazia gets closer to 
solving the case, the Iguana becomes aware of her and Simone, and turns the hunters into 
the hunted, pursuing them until the climatic ending. 

A Stylistic technique that Lucarelli effectively employs is the use of first-person 
narratives for the characters of Simone and the Iguana, and a third-person voice for 
Grazia. This triad of perspectives provides the reader with multiple interpretations of the 
same events. It also allows for some comparison between the characters of Simone and 
the Iguana, both of whom appear primarily motivated by the whims of their emotions. 
The difference in their individual reactions to the painful events of childhood is a theme 
that is explored in the novel. 

While the plot appears to follow the traditional conventions of the detective genre, 
what is unusual is its choice of a woman as the detective who solves the case. Grazia 
Negro, who also appeared in Lupo Mannaro (1994), was so well received by the public 
that Lucarelli decided to use her character again, not only in A/most Blue, but also in his 
latest novel, Un giorno dopo I’altro. Grazia is new to the force, and her inexperience 
makes her somewhat vulnerable and ill-equipped to tackle such a case. The amateur 
detective is a hallmark of Lucarelli’s novels, a common theme being that of the 
protagonist who must overcome great difficulties, and who often makes what prove to be 
fatal mistakes in the investigation of the crime. As Grazia finds herself immersed in a 
male-centered world, she also must confront the prejudices and chauvinism of her 
colleagues in the police department and detective unit. She resists them, demanding to be 
called “Ispettore Negro, if you don’t mind. I’m not a signora, I’m a colleague. You can 
call me Ispettore” (42). Although she is often overly emotional and naive, to her credit 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 569 


she is also outspoken and defiant. 

The drama of the noir plot is intensified by the poetry of Lucarelli’s descriptions. 
“The sound of a record dropping onto a turntable is like a short sigh, with a touch of dust 
mixed in” (5). The musical tone of the prose must be in part inspired by the primary 
theme of the novel. The title refers to the eponymous song performed by both Chet Baker 
and Elvis Costello. Music is very important to both Simone and the Iguana, but has a very 
different meaning for each of them. To the blind Simone, music is the key to 
understanding another person. Grazia reminds him of the song “Summertime,” and he 
hears it whenever she is around. While Simone is soothed by the cool melodies of jazz, 
the Iguana craves the intensity of hard rock, so he listens to AC/DC and Nine Inch Nails. 

Almost Blue is an adrenaline rush that quickly ensnares the reader in a hi-tech 
multimedia thriller with its sound track and rapid fire chapters. It is tempting to label it a 
cannibali text because of its violent and shocking imagery, video graphics, and attention 
to linguistic details. However, Lucarelli is quick to separate himself from the cannibali 
movement, which is, as he explains, primarily a marketing invention. Furthermore, many 
of the characteristics in question could also be considered classic attributes of the genre 
of the noir or giallo, pre-dating the existence of the cannibali. 

Because of its playful use of language, it is not an easy text to translate, which 
makes it all the more admirable that such a translation has been done. Lucarelli often 
contrasts standard Italian with dialects, or plays with register, or includes foreign 
languages, in particular English, to underline the effects of globalization on contemporary 
Italian society. Oonagh Stransky has done a fine job of capturing this aspect of the novel. 
City Lights editor Nancy Peters decided to have Almost Blue translated and published 
after it was first introduced to the United States through the Zerilli-Mariméd Prize for 
Italian Fiction, for which it was a finalist in 1998. 

Dawn Green, Stanford University 


Raffaello Baldini. Carta canta (Page Proof). Ed. Daniele Benati. Trans. Adria 
Bernardi. Boca Raton FL: Bordighera, 2001. 

“Béli, béli, a m so gudtda, agl’é acsé béli ch’al n u n pea gnénca puiséi” (“belle, belle, 
mi sono divertita, sono cosi belle che non sembrano neanche poesie!”). 

Questo maldestro complimento rivolto da una spettatrice a Ivano Marescotti (vero e 
proprio alter ego del poeta romagnolo sulle scene) rivela chiaramente la funzione svolta 
dalla produzione di Baldini negli ultimi dieci anni. I suoi versi sono infatti riusciti a ridare 
nuova vita e nuova vitalita al dialetto sfruttandone e, nel contempo, evidenziandone le 
qualita letterarie, cosi come sono riusciti a “restituirlo” alla gente comune, che non é pit 
in grado di parlare il dialetto della propria terra pur continuando a comprenderlo. Baldini 
é riuscito, cioé, dove la pur diffusa produzione comica teatrale in vernacolo non é 
riuscita: a rendere nuovamente il dialetto “popolare”. Mentre questa produzione insiste su 
toni nostalgico-elegiaci incapaci di parlare alle nuove generazioni, la poesia di Baldini 
sfrutta la capacita del romagnolo (quello di Santarcangelo) di distendersi nel respiro 
lungo della narrazione come di contrarsi nello scatto improvviso dell’ epigramma per dare 
voce ai temi dell’estraneita e della perdita di sé. In tal modo Baldini ha saputo 
conquistare anche chi non legge abitualmente poesia e, soprattutto, chi non é solito 
leggere quella dialettale. Ne é chiara prova il fatto che i suoi recital hanno ben presto 
lasciato lo spazio protetto delle rassegne poetiche dialettali per trovare ospitalita nei 


570 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


cartelloni principali dei teatri di prosa, restituendo cosi la produzione dialettale a quella 
che é la sua collocazione naturale di espressione a pieno titolo della produzione letteraria 
nazionale. 

Sulla scorta di questo successo (e su esplicita sollecitazione di Marescotti), Baldini 
ha quindi tentato direttamente la via del teatro con Zitti tutti! (nel 1993) e Carta Canta 
(nel 1997), che hanno offerto un’ulteriore ed ancor piu ferma_testimonianza 
dell’appartenenza delle opere in dialetto di Baldini alla tradizione letteraria nazionale e 
non a quella locale in vernacolo. Anche in questi testi, come nelle sue poesie, infatti, il 
dialetto non mira a definire un milieu “rustico-arcadico” caratterizzato dagli attributi della 
spontaneita e della sincerita (in contrapposizione ai connotati di falsita e artificiosita 
propri della realta cittadina), ma a riprodurre immediatamente gli stati d’animo dei suoi 
personaggi in quella che, essendo la loro lingua madre, a quegli stati d’animo si rivela 
essere la pil vicina. Non una scelta di tipo ideologico quindi, bensi di carattere stilistico- 
espressivo, che fa di Baldini, come ha scritto Mengaldo, “uno dei tre o quattro poeti pit 
importanti d’Italia” (R. Baldini, Ad nota, Milano, Mondadori, 1995, IX). 

Ogni iniziativa editoriale volta a far conoscere anche all’estero la sua produzione 
appare quindi degna di nota, e lo é tanto di pit se non si limita a tradurla, ma ne seconda 
la lettura attraverso l’apparato paratestuale. Meritoria quindi |’opera di Daniele Benati, 
che ha curato la pubblicazione per i tipi della Bordighera Press (nella collana “Crossings 
— An intersection of cultures”) della traduzione di Carta Canta da parte di Adria 
Bernardi, affiancandole un’intervista allo stesso Baldini ed una nota critica che ne 
esamina anche la produzione in versi. 

Sarebbe stata nondimeno auspicabile |’inclusione della traduzione della prefazione 
all’edizione italiana del monologo, nella quale Baldini motiva la sua predilezione per la 
forma teatrale del monologo (nelle condizioni in cui ci troviamo al giorno d’oggi “le cose 
che abbiamo da dire non resta che dircele addosso” R. Baldini, Carta canta. Zitti tutti! In 
fondo a destra, Torino, Einaudi, 1998, VI), ed, ancor pil, una nota esplicativa della 
traduttrice. 

Oltre a rimanere disorientato dalla traduzione del titolo (“Page Proof’ sembra infatti 
far riferimento a delle bozze, ad una “‘bozza impaginata” per |’esattezza, piuttosto che ad 
un “foglio che ha valore di prova”), il lettore fatica a comprendere quale sia stato il testo 
di partenza. 

La maggiore aderenza del testo inglese alla traduzione italiana di Carta canta curata 
dello stesso Baldini spinge infatti a pensare che questa, e non I’originale in dialetto 
romagnolo, sia stata adottata come testo di partenza. Una scelta che, sebbene per tanta 
parte necessaria ancor pili che legittima, meritava di essere esplicitata e motivata, sia per 
quello che implica dal punto di vista teorico, sia per le conseguenze che ha sulla 
comprensione del monologo. 

Dal punto di vista della teoria della traduzione vale infatti la pena ricordare come, 
proprio nella prefazione all’edizione italiana di Carta canta, Baldini si dica contrario per 
principio alla traduzione di traduzioni (“Si trattava dunque di tradurre una traduzione. 
L’impresa, a questo punto, si annunciava superiore non solo alle mie forze, ma anche alle 
mie convinzioni” V) e come, nella stessa intervista premessa alla traduzione della 
Bernardi, Baldini risponda alla domanda, “How is it that you decided to write in dialect 
and not in Italian?” sostenendo: “It’s not that I decided to write in dialect. It’s that I didn’t 
have a choice [...] where I’m from there are still things, landscapes, people, stories that 
happen in dialect. To tell them in Italian would mean translating them. But something is 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 571 


always lost in translation. More than something, really. And so, if one wants to tell these 
things as they really happened, there’s no choice: you have to tell it in dialect” (2). 
Baldini insiste inoltre sulla difficolta di tradurre i suoi testi in italiano, pur mirando ad 
una traduzione “di servizio” la pil letterale possibile (“Preparing this calque presents 
some difficulties, it’s true” 4). 

Ma é dal punto di vista della comprensione delle strategie testuali e delle soluzioni 
stilistiche adottate da Baldini che la mancanza di una nota sulle scelte traduttive si fa 
maggiormente sentire. L’inglese non consente infatti di rendere la diglossia di cui il 
protagonista, con piena coscienza (“I speak in correct Italian too, when it’s the right time, 
when talking in Italian is necessary” 37), si serve, portando cosi in scena |’alternanza tra 
italiano e dialetto propria delle persone di una certa eta che hanno ancora nel romagnolo 
la propria lingua madre e che riservano I’italiano solo alle conversazioni con persone pit 
dotte 0 comunque a temi e situazioni che richiedono una maggiore dose di formalita. II 
protagonista di Carta canta ricorre infatti all’italiano quando rievoca |’incontro con gli 
studiosi di araldica che lo informano della nobilta dei suoi natali (“perd, dice, abbiamo 
trovato delle notizie, e se lei é d’acordo, parché bsdgna che mé a séa d’acérd” 4-5), 
quando vuole mettere chiaramente in luce l’importanza di un certo fatto (“Prima a séra 
cmé sla frasca, ta i séri, ta n’i séri, adés invici sei qualcuno, hai un nome e un cognome” 
34) o quando parla del suo amore per Lalla (“e a n so gnénca un brott 6m, e perché allora 
ti volti sempre di 1a? Che io ti ho anche scritto delle lettere, molte lettere, e te non 
rispondi, non si fa cosi” 60). 

Analogamente la mancanza di ogni indicazione in tal senso in un’apposita premessa 
tiene il lettore di lingua inglese all’oscuro del gioco condotto da Baldini sulle forme 
“intermedie” dell’italiano regionale, di cui sono tipico esempio il “te” con valore di 
soggetto (“uno ti scrive e scrivi anche te” regolarmente tradotto, di necessita, “someone 
writes to you and you write back” 39) o lo scempiamento delle doppie (il gia citato “se lei 
é d’acordo” e, ancora, “un bravo profesionista” tradotti inevitabilmente “if you agree to 
it” 10; e “a good professional” 40). Solo in un caso questo gioco passa in qualche modo 
nell’inglese, cioé quando il protagonista prende spunto da uno di questi scempiamenti 
tipici dei semicolti per scagliarsi contro un concittadino (“tutti i momenti nevvero, [...] 
che lo dice anche con due “v”, nevvero, lo dice doppio, nevvero, non é vero? Ecco, per 
dire, non é vero? Invece lui dice nevvero, e io dico che é un coglione” 57), ma anche in 
questo caso la soluzione adottata dalla Bernardi di appoggiarsi su un diverso vezzo di 
pronuncia (“he’s always saying, Isn’t that so, every single moment [...] which then he 
even says it enunciating every syllable, the T in isn’t, isn’T-that-so, right? That’s exactly 
what I mean in order to say right? No but he has to say Isn’t that so, and I say that he’s a 
jerk” 37), per quanto efficace in sé, non pud rendere la ricchezza di sottintesi del gioco 
sulle doppie dell’ originale. 

Sull’importanza della relazione tra dialetto e italiano nella produzione di Baldini si 
sofferma del resto anche Benati nella sua postfazione critica, pur limitandosi a mettere in 
evidenza una sorta di compulsione del primo a mutarsi nel secondo (“this game between 
two languages yields a great richness to his poems, because it exposes their need to be 
translated from the dialect” 45), che troverebbe realizzazione nelle traduzioni a pie’ 
pagina dello stesso Baldini, e tacendo la dialettica, di maggior momento dal punto di vista 
stilistico, tra le due lingue al livello del solo originale in romagnolo. Discutibile ci sembra 
pure l’affermazione che Baldini non necessita, come chi scrive in italiano standard, di 
inventare costantemente “amazing situations and characters” e che pud mettere in scena 


572  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


“characters and situations that are among the simplest and most common [...] precisely 
because he uses dialect” (47), tanto pit che il suo terzo monologo, Jn fondo a destra 
(sempre del 1997), é in italiano, mentre appare del tutto convincente |’indicazione che 
“The exquisite thing about his poem-stories and his monologue-stories is the sudden 
impulse to speak, the unhinging of words, the emotion released by those words and the 
moods revealed by those words; in his works, there is always someone going on and on 
and on, who loses his train of thought, then finds it again, then goes off on another 
tangent, until it starts all over again” (42). 

Indipendentemente dai limiti che ci pare di aver individuato, il volumetto edito da 
Benati pud vantare senz’altro il merito di rappresentare una prima opportunita di 
confronto, per il pubblico nord-americano (ed anglofono in generale), con uno dei 
maggiori poeti italiani viventi, con la speranza che questo sia solo il primo passo verso 
una conoscenza pill approfondita e diretta della sua opera. 

Paolo Rambelli, University College London 


Zigmunt G. Baranski and Rebecca West, eds. The Cambridge Companion to Modern 
Italian Culture. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge UP, 2001. Pp. 363 + xxii. 

Il progetto di uno studio complessivo sulla cultura umanistica, letteraria e mediatica 
dell’ Italia moderna é stato in parte realizzato dai volumi curati da David Forgacs e Robert 
Lumley, /talian Cultural Studies: An Introduction (1996), Beverly Allen e Mary Russo, 
Revisioning Italy: National Identity and Global Culture (1997), Dino S. Cervigni e 
Robert Dombroski, /talian Cultural Studies (1998) e di recente Anna Maria Torriglia, 
Broken Time, Fragmented Space: A Cultural Map for Postwar Italy (2002). In Italia, 
opera di Corrado Stajano, La cultura italiana del Novecento (1996) rappresenta 
lapproccio pil esaustivo ai nuclei problematici di una disciplina che, nell’ultimo 
decennio, é diventata oggetto di interessi critici che spaziano dalla storiografia alla 
sociologia, dalle arti figurative al giornalismo, dalla letteratura a _prospettiche 
postcoloniali che elaborano la nozione di identita nazionale nel contesto di una cultura 
globalizzata. In Modern Italian Culture, la materia viene ripresentata, in un quadro 
complessivo e coerente, secondo un/’articolazione cronologica che traccia gli itinerari 
culturali dell’Italia unita, leggermente modificata si da includere campi nuovi quali il 
design, la moda e la musica pop. II volume si articola in diciotto capitoli, con 
un’introduzione e una postfazione dei curatori. In linea di massima, i contributi possono 
essere letti secondo una categorizzazione tripartita, che risponde a domande sul modo in 
cui gli italiani vivono nella sfera socio-politica, letteraria e artistica. La dote migliore di 
questa opera collettiva é la sobrieta nell’interpretazione dei dati, unita all’intuizione 
critica, capace di sostituirsi a necessarie omissioni in uno studio di questa mole. 

Nel primo capitolo ci si chiede, con un excursus firmato da John Dickie, se esista 
innanzitutto un carattere nazionale degli italiani, cioé se si pud parlare di orientamenti 
valoriali che formano il fondale della cultura del paese. Scartate le premesse 
ottocentesche che attribuivano a una nazione singolari tratti bio-psichici, il critico parte 
dal dibattito crociano sul concetto di unita nazionale. Facendo riferimento alle scelte 
condizionanti del padre riconosciuto della cultura italiana (una presenza difficile da 
rimuovere) si comincia a investigare se |’Italia sia una pura topografia geografica oppure 
anche popolo. Si fa particolare attenzione alla sedimentazione di esperienze storiche 
accumulate dal 1860 ad oggi: la mancata unificazione nazionale alle soglie dell’era 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 573 


moderna, la fragmentazione politica, il potere secolare del Vaticano, le problematiche 
poste dalla classe borghese e la questione della lingua. Sono questi gli elementi operanti 
che vengono a costruire il “carattere nazionale italiano” o italianita, sempre tenendo 
presente che le sue forme specifiche sono improntate alla varieta e alla diversificazione. 
Occuparsi delle tracce culturali del carattere italiota ¢ ardua impresa. La natura del 
concetto € contrastiva; eppure John Dickie é@ capace di proiettare, sulla base di dati 
frammentari, un quadro d’insieme che funge da orientamento per i contributi successivi. 
Le sue premesse saranno sviluppate nei saggi che trattano le scienze sociali e umane, 
dalla storiografia alle questioni del linguaggio, dagli “ismi” di costruzione ideologica alla 
cultura di un ceto intellettuale compromesso da una politica partitocratica, ed infine alle 
voci differenziali. 

Tutte le discipline in esame gravitano intorno al discorso culturale e interagiscono con 
esso, modellandone concetti e influenzandone il corso della riflessione. La 
interdisciplinarieta di cultura e scienze sociali si rivela dalla strutturazione instrinseca 
delle singole interpretazioni, tese a evidenziare ambiti problematici, di crisi. Ad esempio, 
il saggio di Anna Cento Bull, un compendio storico con enfasi socio-politica, amplia 
l’area investigativa di John Dickie per comprendere una valutazione dei costumi e dei 
comportamenti che sottendono la mancanza negli italiani di un senso dello Stato come 
corpo collettivo, con |’innata sfiducia nelle istituzioni, storicamente dovuta a governi 
dispotici o corrotti, votati al compromesso (la destra storica, il fascismo, la democrazia 
andreottiana degli Anni Cinquanta, la nuova sinistra). I] rapporto degli intellettuali con la 
cultura del potere é visto, nel testo di David Ward, come preminente tendenza all’azione 
concertata dai partiti di sinistra; una sorta di permissiva connivenza legata a una 
inclinazione gramsciana per leggere la realta. Gli “ismi” della cultura politica sono 
suggestivamente analizzati da Percy Allum (cattolicesimo) e da Robert S. Dombroski 
(socialismo, comunismo, fascismo). La carenza di una storia civile al livello europeo ha 
prodotto da noi catechismi mostruosi, nei quali le emozioni e gli interessi di partito si 
affermano contro le leggi dello Stato e le sorti generali del paese. Insomma, I’italiano é 
orgoglioso di essere democristiano, comunista, o fascista, ma non si vanta di essere un 
buon cittadino. Gli scandali pili vistosi, da Tangentopoli alla loggia massonica P2 dell’era 
craxiana, non fanno mutare giudizio politico. A esperienze storiche differenziali é 
dedicato il contributo di Sharon Wood e Joseph Farrell. Lo sviluppo socio-economico del 
dopoguerra produce una svolta che esplode empiricamente nel terrorismo degli Anni 
Settanta e trova riscontro in una generazione che si sente disorientata e sgomenta, perché 
privata di ideali sulla societa. Tra le voci “altre,” si valutano le recriminazioni e denunce 
della Lega Nord, e la questione femminile esposta nei sui caratteri pratici e teorici. Le 
inflessioni della lingua delineate da Brian Richardson vogliono offrire un panorama 
accessibile dei fattori problematici di un’area che ha subito profondi cambiamenti. Se al 
momento dell’unificazione meno del 10% della popolazione era in condizione di capire la 
lingua nazionale, alle soglie del duemila oltre il 90% parla l’italiano grazie a una spiccata 
mobilita interna e alla recezione di cinema e TV assunti a supreme scuole popolari. 

E ovvia a questo punto la rilevanza della tradizione letteraria come oggetto dell’analisi 
culturale. Un secondo gruppo di contributi verte infatti sugli stilemi narrativi, poetici e 
drammatici. Nella nostra letteratura, come evidenziano gli studi di Gian-Paolo Biasin, 
Shirley W. Vinall/Tom O’Neill e Anna Laura Lepschy, si sono prodotti autentici 
capolavori che accompagnano lo sviluppo sociale dell’Italia unita, sia che si parli dei 
tratti aristocratici di Il Gattopardo, sia che si racconti della degradazione dei ragazzi di 


574  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


vita pasoliniani, una triste rivelazione del nostro realismo biologico. La drammaturgia 
dell’attore/autore rappresenta, da Scarpetta e Eduardo a Dario Fo, le tensioni morali e le 
miserie del nostro costume. 

La terza parte (sette testi) si focalizza infine sui settori della ricerca artistica: il cinema, 
le arti plastiche, il design, la moda, i media, la musica pop e seriosa. Nei vari contributi 
firmati, fra gli altri, da studiosi quali Peter Bondanella, Eugenia Paulicelli e Alessandro 
Carrera, il lettore trova una piccola storia, articolata per autori, dei nodi pit importanti 
nella pratica artistica. Si fondono gli strumenti della produzione artistica, compresi il 
consumismo e i monopoli di mercato, alla vita culturale della nazione. L’articolazione dei 
saggi tiene conto dei reciproci influssi e delle linee di continuita. I] volume ha un epilogo 
di Rebecca West, che offre un bilancio, ovviamente provvisorio, di un periodo storico 
non sempre facile da esemplificare: una sorta di riflessione sulla mappatura geografica 
del paese ormai tracciata da immigrazione e multiculturalismo. L’Italia si muove verso 
nuovi assetti, che segnalano un processo in atto di cambiamento del costume civile. 
Come osserva la West, bisognerebbe studiare attentamente le conflittualita postmoderne 
per scrivere una futura storia culturale di un’Italia che negli ultimi decenni ha cercato 
oltre i confini i propri modelli di riferimento. Lo stato della cultura italiana viene cosi 
fissato nella cornice di un mondo in trasformazione. 

Modern Italian Culture & stata pensata, per omogeneita di organizzazione, come 
un’opera unitaria; ogni saggio ha tuttavia un’autonomia di contenuti che lo separa dagli 
altri. Un accenno va fatto alle omissioni. Un’omissione specifica pud riguardare il cibo, 
lo sport, l’universita, e forse la questione femmminile avrebbe meritato un capitolo 
separato. Ma, come mette in rilievo Zygmunt Baranski nelle pagine introduttive, 
l’intenzione é di complementare gli studi che |’hanno preceduta, non sostituirli. Si 
sottoscrive quindi una nozione flessibile di cultura, rigettando in partenza criteri di 
apparente equilibrio, per orientarsi verso scelte selettive e di sintesi. II libro ha quindi un 
taglio intenzionalmente “parziale”. Un’altra osservazione che si pud avanzare leggendo 
questi 17 testi é che, pit: che a un’acquisizione schematica di dati, si punta a un approccio 
critico-riflessivo. 

Modern Italian Culture delinea, con interventi essenziali, il profilo del dibattito 
culturale attuale; non intende storicizzarlo. I parametri storico-geografici scelti e le 
sistematiche esposizioni delle tematiche in esame contribuiscono alla chiarezza e¢ alla 
facile consultazione del volume, che si avvale inoltre di ottimi referimenti bibliografici. 

Gaetana Marrone, Princeton University 


Giancarlo Lombardi. Rooms with a View: Feminist Diary Fiction, 1952-1999. 
Farleigh Dickinson University Press, 2002. 

The title of Lombardi’s study, Rooms with a View: Feminist Diary Fiction, 1952-1999, 
may suggest to the reader an analysis guided by solely a formal approach to genre 
criticism. From the outset of the study, however, Lombardi distances himself from such 
formalistic constraints by constructing an engaging comparative study of the genre that 
explores the evolution and involution of feminist themes in a variety of national contexts. 
In his preface Lombardi explicitly differentiates his work from previous structuralist 
scholarship on diary fiction and likens his study, with its overriding attention to the 
influence of ideological discourses on diary fiction, to Hassam’s Writing and Reality: A 
Study of Modern British Diary Fiction (28). Lombardi’s diachronic study moves from the 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 575 


preistoria of the feminist movement to late 20"-century backlash against progress 
attained by that movement. The book thus spans four decades of feminist diary fiction 
and addresses the works of authors representative of four national contexts: Italy (De 
Céspedes, Maraini, Tamaro), France (Beauvoir), England (Lessing), and Canada 
(Atwood). The critical orientation is motivated and varied; psychoanalytic criticism, 
Derridean observations on the economy of the family, and Foucault’s analysis of systems 
of social surveillance converge in an argument that effectively demonstrates how feminist 
diary fiction portrays a patriarchally engineered “universe of female protagonists in 
seclusion” (15). Each chapter explores this subtending theme as it discusses a variety of 
possible reactions by the female protagonist to this oppressive condition: resignation, 
rebellion, retreat into insanity, and conformity to socially prescribed roles. 

Chapter One (“Time Given, Time Taken, Time Lost: De Céspedes’s Bleak Tale of 
the Fifties”) explores the internalization of patriarchal imperatives regarding femininity. 
Lombardi highlights those transgressive moments in De Cespedes’s text where the act of 
secretive diary writing is described as sinful and subversive, an activity that does not 
contribute to the economy of the foyer. De Cespedes’s resisting narrative and the 
protagonist’s ultimate destruction of it become, in Lombardi’s persuasive analysis, a 
burnt offering consecrated upon a symbolic altar to female interiority. Through an 
analysis of the religious and economic discourses with which the protagonist chooses to 
describe her transgression, Lombardi traces the uneven process of the protagonist’s 
awakening and final return to silence. Diary keeping, explored by Lombardi in Derridean 
terms, is a gift of time given to oneself, time taken, but also time lost. Its status as a 
selfish and “an-economic” activity undermines the mother’s contributory and sacrificial 
role within the family economy. The protagonist Valeria’s secluded condition — apropos 
of which Lombardi focuses on spatial considerations and images of mirroring in the 
novel — emphasizes how phallogocentrism silences those whose writing is not 
sanctioned by patriarchal consent. 

Chapter Two (“Neurotic Cassandras: Lessing, Maraini, Beauvoir, and Their ‘Crazy’ 
Diaries From the Sixties”) attempts to demonstrate how this decade witnessed slightly 
different stages of feminist struggle in Western Europe. These “site-specific” realities, as 
Lombardi defines them (19), are exemplified by Beauvoir’s La femme rompue, Maraini’s 
A memoria, and Lessing’s The Golden Notebook. In each work Lombardi painstakingly 
explores the “symbolic depiction of different aspects of female neurosis” (55). The 
golden notebook of Lessing’s novel narrates the protagonist Anna’s journey through 
crisis and madness. Lombardi examines with great textual detail each of the four colored 
notebooks that Anna keeps to compartmentalize her life, and offers convincing readings 
of each informed by psychoanalytic criticism (the castrating female gaze, das 
Unheimliche), Lacan (linguistic slippage and the phallus), and Bentham’s panopticon via 
Foucault. Lombardi observes that themes in this text such as breakdown and separation 
(race, class, and gender) overdetermine the subtending theme of the divided self. 

Lombardi then turns to an analysis of the formal and thematic subversion which 
characterizes Maraini’s A memoria. The avant-garde work, which he likens stylistically 
to the nouveau roman in its alienating representation of disorder and fragmentation, is 
complemented by a female protagonist whose sexual promiscuity presents a threat to 
patriarchal order. The protagonist suffers from lack of social memory, and this condition, 
Lombardi argues, mirrors the condition of women’s preistoria, which Maraini defines as 
unconsciousness, a lack of reflection upon one’s life or actions (70). In support of the 


576  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


symbolic status of the protagonist, Lombardi shows in exhaustive detail how the text 
differentiates between women as body, instinct, appetite, and men as reason, intellect, 
speculation. This patriarchally imposed segregation to the body inscribed within a 
profound existential despair, a failure to communicate, and an alienation from history 
make of A memoria “a bleak fairy tale, a mythic fable on the war of the sexes in 
prefeminist Italy” (78). 

The penultimate section of this chapter treats the unreliable narrator of La femme 
rompue (1967), a housewife abandoned by her adulterous husband, forced to embark 
upon an undesired emancipation. Monique’s six-month diary details her “slow descente 
en enfer” (80) in which Lombardi draws comparisons to the bleakness of Poe’s short 
stories and focuses on the darkness and angst enveloping the protagonist. Lombardi’s 
critical point is that the ambiguity of Monique’s statements, her forgetfulness, confusion, 
and distortion of the truth make her an unreliable narrator, one motivated by intentional 
misrepresentation. He concludes that this ambiguous novella, “disguised as a desperate 
plea for human sympathy, actually undermines its most evident meaning through subtle 
rhetorical and structural devices” (90). The chapter closes with Kristevan observations on 
female castration and the link between depression and language (Le soleil noir); 
Lombardi concludes that the characters’ “neuroses signify their inability to adjust to 
patriarchal societies that are faced with the threat represented by the possibility of female 
emancipation” (93). 

Chapter III (“The War Years: Maraini’s Angry Look at the Seventies”) follows the 
protagonist of Maraini’s Donna in guerra, Vannina, as she undergoes a transformation 
from a condition of socially prescribed subjugation to rebellious emancipation. Lombardi 
explores the public-private dichotomy through a sensitive and nuanced analysis of the 
protagonist’s areas of action: the apartment, /avanderia, garden courtyard, and the piazza. 
By highlighting the religious overtones and ritualistic qualities of certain descriptions and 
conversations in the novel, Lombardi provides convincing textual evidence of his reading 
of two other female figures in the novel, Tota and Giottina, as “voices from the 
netherworld, from the dark caves of the earth, [...] the voices of female atavistic revolt” 
(103). Although theirs is ultimately a doomed rebellion, another female figure, Suna, 
features in Vannina’s eventual emancipation. The most suggestive argument in this 
chapter is the analysis of the symbolic role of hunting and fishing in which Lombardi 
relates these two activities to possession and abuse of women. 

Lombardi’s analysis in Chapter IV (“Fall From Grace: Lessing, Atwood, and the 
Years of the Backlash”) of The Diaries of Jane Somers (1984) and The Handmaid's Tale 
(1986) posits these texts as representative of the backlash against feminism. Regret, fear 
of aging, the body, and decay haunt the protagonist of Lessing’s work. Although a career 
woman, Jane Somers edits a glossy women’s magazine, Lilith, which betrays its feminist 
title through a subtle promotion and reinforcement of patriarchal propaganda. Lombardi 
demonstrates, through a close analysis of Jane’s relationships with other characters, how 
the protagonist has had to prioritize work over family in order to project a stylized image 
of a successful, liberated woman. Lombardi sees courage in the character’s abandonment 
of her position at the pseudo-feminist magazine, but concludes that “her more drastic 
connection from the world of the emotions ends the diaries on an extremely bleak note” 
(138). Drawing upon the publication circumstances of this work (Lessing’s use of a 
pseudonym to publish the novel and the critics’ resulting inability to recognize her 
literary signature), Lombardi makes some concluding remarks on signature and style in 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 577 


which both the text itself and the body of the protagonist as text are dressed for an 
audience. In the following section on Atwood’s novel, Lombardi shows how Atwood’s 
dystopian future world fully realizes the latent backlash which Lessing’s novel hinted at 
in its conclusion. The chapter presents a thorough summary of the work and discusses the 
symbolism of dress, colors, and the protagonist’s name. After this discussion of 
symbolism, Lombardi explores the role of language. In its status as the transcription of 
Offred’s oral narrative, the diary is the objective correlative of the female character’s 
exile from the written word. 

In the study’s conclusion (“A Grandmother’s Legacy”), Lombardi addresses the 
best-selling novel by Susanna Tamaro, Va’ dove ti porta il cuore and teases out the 
contradictory ideological discourses inscribed in the narration. In the grandmother’s 
message to her absent granddaughter to “forget her own rationality, dismiss the 
subversive power of her voice, and let her emotions take over her life” (158), Lombardi 
sees an echo of Italy’s reawakened Conservatism and patriarchally informed ideologies. 

In conclusion, Rooms with a View: Feminist Diary Fiction is a study rich with close 
readings of primary texts and theoretically acute analyses of characters, themes, and 
situations. The lucidity and concision of the textual analysis is, however, sometimes 
marred by semantic and grammatical errors. A complete bibliography and an index of 
concepts, authors, and titles ensure effective consultation of the study. While Lombardi 
convincingly dissects each character’s fictional world and identifies the telltale traces of 
ideologies in that world (Catholicism, Feminism, Marxism, Neo-Conservatism, et a/), at 
the end of chapters the transitional leap between these texts and the sociopolitical history 
of the women’s movement is often brusque and/or vague. As Lombardi states in his 
preface, the view, circumscribed by windows and mirrors and readily available to female 
diarists, weaves together two discourses. The diaries “bear witness to their internal 
struggles while reflecting, at the same time, (on) the external world, whose sociopolitical 
turmoil will be observed, however, from afar” (15). The preface’s survey of post-WWII 
Western women’s history and feminist politics is a concession, I think, to the proposition 
that if each text chosen by Lombardi reflects the evolution of the women’s movement 
across time (resignation, rebellion and backlash), then text and history need to be 
mutually present on the page. The sociopolitical turmoil cannot, in the end, be observed 
from afar. 

Lori J. Ultsch, Hofstra University 


Helen Barolini. More Italian Hours. Boca Raton, FL: Bordighera, 2001. 

In the second half of the 20" century, Helen Barolini (Umbertina, 1952; 1979, The 
Dream Book, 1985) initiated, as did Giulia Savarese (The Weak and the Strong), Tina De 
Rosa (Paper Fish, 1980), and others, a new trend in Italian-American literature away 
from the preconceived notion of how Italian-Americans were supposed to behave and 
write. In 2001, Barolini’s latest book, More Italian Hours, comes as a welcome addition 
to this new perspective on Italian-American culture. This in spite of the fact that Barolini, 
like many other American writers of Italian descent, refuses to be labeled an Italian- 
American writer, an enriching but limiting label, which, in Barolini’s words, provides on 
one hand a community, and on the other a ghetto. Although it is obvious that any writer 
must be judged only by the quality of his or her writing, it is essential, in order to 
appreciate these short stories on a deeper level, to read in them the distinctive features of 


578  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


a literature that hovers between Italian and American feelings, traditions, and 
philosophies. In the preface to The Dream Book (1985), Barolini herself wrote: “No 
matter how encompassing our themes and broad our views, overtones of who we are and 
how we feel, as formed by our values and history, show up in our work” (10). This must 
be our key to reading and enjoying her latest collection of stories. 

This perspective is also implicitly suggested by the title that Barolini chose for her 
new collection of stories, named after Henry James’s travelogue /talian Hours. By this 
reference to the 19'*-century author of many books about Italy, she imports James’s 
openness to the Italian experience and his passion for penetrating what he calls the magic 
of Italy. At the same time she colors it through the lens of a 20"-century American 
woman of Italian descent, who married an Italian poet and lived in Italy for many years. 
Many of James’s views on his Anglo-American heroines in Italy, and on women in 
general, are implicitly criticized by Barolini, especially in the central and longest story, 
“Shores of Light.” James’s gauche, timid, and delicate Daisy Miller (also found in the 
first story, “Of Sketchbooks and Millers”), the Christina Light who totally ignores her 
Italian heritage, and the Miniver Cheevy whining for missed chances all appear to us 
artificial figures with a weak sense of their value and purpose in life. Barolini’s women, 
on the contrary, are fully conscious and strengthened by their struggle to integrate the two 
sides of their identities. Barolini’s typical creation is the proud Matilde, never forgetting 
and fully enjoying her Italian heritage; or the hippie Connie, glad that she got away in 
time from Sicily to create her own future; or Michele, the Harvard student who, after the 
first negative impact with Italy, is reconciled to her grandparents’ country, buys a pop-art 
blouse, and begins a new life; or, finally, Fran the gardener, who in the end chooses to 
make her lonely life fruitful again and allow her long relationship with Sam to take its 
course without resisting it. 

The addition of “more” to the title indicates to us Barolini’s desire to say “more” 
about Italy, to show both the positive and negative aspects, the virtues and the faults, 
while James was blinded by his romantic view of the Italy he loved so much. He 
regretted, for instance, the end of papal Rome and of the Carnival, the pomp and the fun. 
He could not understand how the heroic will that produced St. Peter had turned into the 
vulgar taste of the new buildings. He never penetrated the mystery of how Italy could be 
so bright and yet so sad, and of how Venice’s decadence and ruin could appear more 
brilliant than any prosperity. He could not see the connection between the two and 
understand the necessity for change. As a stranger, he was not able, however much he 
tried, to penetrate the mystery of Italy. Although he wrote unforgettable pages about 
Venice and Rome, he was baffled by the serenity and dignity of the Italians in their 
poverty, by the beauty among the dirt, by the sensuous optimism in the general misery. 
Barolini’s characters, a century later, understand all this as they are part of it. 

Barolini’s discourse is not one of weakness and ethnic self-enclosure. Her women 
characters, although divided at first and hesitant between two cultures, finally find the 
identity they are searching for, an identity that can integrate all aspects of their past and 
present lives, their Italian heritage, and their American education. Barolini gives us this 
perspective as a true insider, somebody who is a product of American culture, education, 
and environment, but who spent many years in Italy, the country her grandparents had 
emigrated from. Women in these stories are more sophisticated and independent than 
men, who, on the contrary, want constant attention and reassurance. Most of the female 
protagonists need and defend their own space, even if it means sacrificing a loving but 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 579 


suffocating relationship. Each of the fifteen stories starts with a casual episode that sets 
off a memory and starts an interior monologue. These minor incidents are objects — a 
sketchbook, a poster, a packet of lettuce seeds — or situations — the preparation of a 
Christmas Eve dinner, a day off in Venice — which spark, by association, a stream of 
consciousness connecting various memories both among themselves and to the present. 
The plots are thin with very few external events. The action is replaced by a continuous 
flow of interior developments. The settings are Rome, Venice, or various places in the 
Eastern United States. The female protagonists are usually highly educated, members of 
academia, writers, journalists, Fulbright students studying abroad, or artists who search 
for and usually find in their works personal achievement and self-realization. In this 
respect, it is indicative what the author says about writing as “a strategy for self- 
definition,” and, in particular, in relation to the Italian and American dual heritage, 
“writing to reconstruct a self, balancing two visions, and creating an identity spacious 
enough to accommodate what is valued from both.” In her stories the protagonists reflect 
on their destinies, on the difficulty of reconciling their italianita, the traditions still 
evident in food preparation, gardening, special feast celebrations, concern for 
appearances, and their Italian emotional temperament with their newly adopted American 
culture, which is often that of their partners in life. 

The generational clash, especially between mothers and daughters, is effectively 
rendered in stories such as “Shores of Light” and “Seven Fishes.” Here the tension 
between the Italian mothers’ possessiveness and their daughters’ self-reliance and need 
for independence, instilled by the American way of life, education, and environment, 
creates feelings of guilt, hesitancy, and a lack of self-confidence. As a result, children 
often grow distant from their parents and feel embarrassed by them. Mothers in turn are 
disconcerted by the demise of traditional family values and their children’s attitude. 
Therefore, Barolini’s women characters stand on uncertain ground between a mainstream 
and a minority culture that is not considered as such, between a young, future-oriented, 
confident civilization where no obstacles seem insurmountable and a centuries-old 
civilization with its sense of history and its fatalistic philosophy of life. Besides, as 
Italian-American women already in their forties, holding or striving for positions of 
responsibility and for high recognition in academia or the publishing world, they find 
themselves doubly discriminated against. However successful in their professional lives, 
they sometimes feel they betrayed one part of themselves, the side represented by their 
Italian name and all that this name involves. In moments of self-reflection, doubts surface 
and the purpose of life seems lost. This conscience alternating between self-satisfaction 
and regret is beautifully expressed by Barolini in these stories. 

However, Barolini’s perspective on life, which we surmise from the different 
experiences of Americans in Italy, Italians in America, and Italian-Americans in both 
countries, is finally optimistic. We are left with the sense that the extra dimension and the 
complexity of their lives, when accepted and integrated, leave the characters much richer 
and more satisfied. At the end of each story, in fact, the protagonists have an epiphany. 
The shock of considering themselves against the different background of another culture 
usually brings them the realization of who they really are. The minimal causes of this 
awakening are varied. A swollen foot, in “Shores of Light,” humbles Matilde and makes 
her compassionate for other people’s frailties. After rejecting her mother’s interference in 
her life and criticizing the latter’s fleetness and inconstancy, she misses and sympathizes 
with her. In a new, more sensitive and perspicacious mood, she decides to send her 


580 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


mother an encouraging message, pressing her to pursue her early dreams. In “Classic and 
Good,” the first-person narrator, after an unsuccessful encounter with what seemed a 
promising new partner, realizes that, underneath, he was a bad-tempered Sicilian and not 
a rational Jewish intellectual as he pretended to be. Even more poignant is the end of 
“Seven Fishes” when the Italian mother, after preparing the Christmas Eve dinner for the 
whole family, is left to go to midnight Mass alone. There she realizes that she cannot 
make others play her game, but must accept them for what they are. Marriage to an 
American from New England, she thinks, has changed her daughter, and the daughter and 
son-in-law are now trying to change her life, to force her to marry her beau and settle 
down. Barolini is showing us how these first-generation Italians, because of the hard 
process of adaptation they endured, are more flexible and tolerant than their offspring. 
Parents are often more liberated and human in their restlessness and constant search for 
meaning than their Americanized children who, by clinging to their newly acquired 
American identity and their American husbands as to a rock, and repudiating their 
parents’ culture, have acquired stability but lost their diversity and rich heritage. 

Barolini portrays with literary finesse and deep insight the special, complex feelings 
of belonging and estrangement, the conflicts, the questions about one’s place in the 
world, which are common to many ethnic groups in America’s pluralistic and multi- 
ethnic society, but also different and specific to any particular culture. As this is a book 
based on an earlier and famous book, it requires us to comprehend Italy, its culture, and 
people on multiple levels. As in a mirror where the reflection of an image from the past 
clarifies, by superimposition, that of the present, Barolini, through the explicit and 
implicit references to Henry James and other writers, better focuses the /talian Hours’ 
images, giving them a modern relevance. The emphasis here is on the identity crises of 
modern women, their search for and creation of self, only rendered more difficult in their 
case by their double identity, their gender, the negative attitude towards them, and their 
traditional dependence on family authority. Barolini’s women are far from stereotyped; 
they start from their individual feelings as persons and not from any preconceived Italian- 
American models. Barolini breaks the secret about the family by writing of its real 
condition in contemporary America. She fictionalizes the tensions between the two 
cultures. 

But not all the stories are about the “epic search of self.” There is space for a 
humorous parody of the know-it-all American wife, transplanted to Rome, who tells her 
guests what to avoid in order to survive in this “terrible country,” in “How to Live in 
Rome and Loathe It.” And there is the sad but insightful presentation of an America old 
couple’s obtuseness and misdirected good intentions before the sight of misery and 
cruelty in “Ms. Italia.” The last story, “Diving in Eternity,” introduces opportunely the 
image of death through the painting of a diver on a Roman sarcophagus. The attitude 
towards old age, death, and the passing of time is a soothing one of natural acceptance. 

More Italian Hours gathers many previously written short stories, composed with 
literary finesse, a delicate ironic touch, and a profound insight. To readers of Umbertina 
it presents a wider panorama of situations and experiences. To first-time readers of 
Barolini it provides an introduction to the complex world of Italian-Americans, a very 
different but truer picture than that presented, for instance, by Mario Puzo in The 
Godfather. 


Paola Blelloch, The College of New Jersey 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 581 


Jonathan Usher and Domenico Fiormonte, eds. New Media and the Humanities: 
Research and Applications. Proceedings of the First Seminar “Computers, Literature 
and Philology,” Edinburgh, 7-9 September 1998. Oxford: Humanities Computing 
Unit, University of Oxford, 2001. 

Most students of Italian literature probably judge books that feature the word “computer” 
in the title not worth their exploration. What could be farther from the emotional and 
imaginative wellsprings of a novel or a poem, after all, than the sterile logic of disk drives 
and bits and bytes? But philology — that humanistic discipline which provides a 
foundation for higher-level literary criticism — employs its own rigorous methods of 
comparative analysis that are indeed amenable to, and in some cases can be greatly aided 
by computational processing, in other words, computers. The coin “humanities 
computing” has been with us for a few decades already and is not unfamiliar to many 
ears, though its scope and significance are still not widely appreciated. To literary- 
minded scholars, New Media and the Humanities: Research and Applications, the newly 
published proceedings of the first international “Computers, Literature and Philology” 
(CLiP) seminar, presents an invitation to become acquainted with some of the 
philological tools and theoretical approaches practitioners of humanities computing are 
currently developing, many with direct relation to Italian Studies. 

Italy was in fact the scene of one of the earliest humanities computing projects, the 
Index Thomisticus, a concordance with critical edition of the works of Thomas Aquinas 
that resulted from research begun in the late 1940s by Jesuit Roberto Busa. Yet, as Dante 
Marianacci, Director of the Italian Cultural Institute in Edinburgh, points out in his 
foreword to New Media and the Humanities, the CLiP seminar held at Edinburgh 
University on 7-9 September 1998 “connected for the first time Italian Studies to 
mainstream research in Humanities Computing, establishing robust relationships between 
Italian research centres and pioneering institutions in USA and Europe” (vi). Since this 
initial meeting, CLiP has convened each year at a different European university, 
attracting a stable group of humanities computing professionals to participate in informal 
presentations and discussion of their methodologies and projects. New Media and the 
Humanities thus preserves the initial parleys of an ongoing, evolving conversation. 

Unfortunately, however, the volume includes only the series of edited papers 
delivered at the Edinburgh seminar without any record of the undoubtedly lively and 
pointed exchanges among participants. Nevertheless, the collection of fourteen essays 
gives one a sense of the different directions from which the contributors approached the 
major themes of textual encoding, editing, and analysis. Editors Domenico Fiormonte and 
Jonathan Usher distill and recombine these themes in their introduction, but here we 
simply provide a précis of each of the essays, which fall roughly into three groupings, 
although the table of contents suggests no such organization: theoretical and practical 
constructs for understanding the significance of electronic philology, historical and 
critical perspectives on the development of computational linguistics and humanities 
computing, and case studies. 

In the opening essay, humanities computing veteran Willard McCarty offers high- 
level perspectives on the discipline. “Humanities computing,’ McCarty claims, “is 
centred on the mediation of thought by the machine and the implications and 
consequences of this mediation for scholarship” (3). Alluding to Busa, he argues that the 


582  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


computer must not be regarded as “just a tool,” but rather as “an agent of perception and 
instrument of thought,” a kind of “mental prosthesis” (3). As such, it shapes what we see 
and how we see it. When texts are encoded according to a rigorous scheme and then 
analyzed computationally, the result is a kind of translation of original ambiguities into a 
brutally simple logic that can at once reveal significant underlying patterns that might 
otherwise escape detection while throwing into relief the very richness of what cannot be 
adequately marked up. Francisco Marcos Marin agrees with McCarty that electronic 
philology is not just a tool limited merely to speeding up certain analytical processes and 
compiling statistics more accurately. Yet unlike McCarty, he does not propose theoretical 
models to explain or justify its existence. Instead he describes and classifies directly its 
processes and results, arguing for its place in intellectual and institutional landscapes 
based on the new questions and insights it makes possible. 

In perhaps the most provocative piece in the volume, Allen Renear, the lone 
American among the otherwise European cohort, suggests that not enough thought or 
theoretical attention has been given to “non-critical editing,” a term he uses to encompass 
all but the most formal types of textual editing, and hence also the most common. 
Especially with the vast and ever-increasing publication of non-critically edited texts on 
the Web, the cultural consequences are enormous in Renear’s view. While marking up 
texts for presentation on the Web may seem a simple and straightforward task, he points 
out that literal transcription, or the “literal representation of the linguistic text of a 
particular document” (29), inevitably involves a complex set of problems. In order to 
achieve the appropriate balance between “getting the whole text” and “nothing but the 
text” (28), one must first understand what a text is, to which Renear gives the answer: an 
“Ordered Hierarchy of Content Objects” or OCHO (27) — a textual ontology that has 
been used to support strategies such as the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI). 

Lou Burnard approaches the problem of encoding “just the text” from a somewhat 
different angle than Renear. Rather than departing from ontological concerns, Burnard 
works from a hermeneutical stance that may be specifically characterized as semiotic. 
Transcription inevitably involves interpretation because of the complex nature of 
textuality. A text, he points out, is simultaneously an image, a linguistic construct, and an 
information structure. A hermeneutical point of departure thus comes round to 
ontological categories in making its circle, so Burnard’s theses are not incompatible with 
Renear’s. 

Fabio Ciotti approaches the problem of transcription from yet a third angle, namely 
epistemology. Departing from the premise that transcription is essentially concerned with 
reproducing the sequence of graphic symbols, Ciotti emphasizes the role played by the 
transcriber’s knowledge and competence in recognizing linguistic codes. From this 
standpoint, the act of transcribing, or re-encoding a code appears as a primarily epistemic 
endeavor that can be isolated in practice from metaphysical or ontological concerns. 
Textual encoding, according to Ciotti, is a theoretical language used to provide access to 
one set of codes through another. 

Shifting to a reader-centered perspective, Claire Warwick asks whether there 
remains a role for the editor in the hypertext environment where readers have more 
determination than ever about to how read a text. She answers affirmatively, but argues 
that role is necessarily changed by the medium. The main difference she sees is that the 
discrete tasks involved in textual editing are less likely to be performed by an isolated 
individual than by several working in collaboration. Complementing Warwick’s views 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 583 


with a final theoretical perspective, Federico Pellizzi suggests that theories of discourse 
elaborated by Foucault and Bakhtin relate well to theories of hypertext since the latter, 
like the former, place emphasis on the different positions or distance inherent in 
communicative interactions. 

Moving away from the theoretical aspects of textuality and textual encoding, 
Antonio Zampolli examines in more practical terms the current situation and 
opportunities for cooperation between computational linguistics and humanities 
computing, first on a global scale and then particularly in Italy. This is a task which he is 
uniquely qualified to do, given his continuous involvement in the field of computational 
linguistics since 1967 and his directorship of the CNR Institute of Computational 
Linguistics at the University of Pisa. Zampolli traces the parallel but often divergent 
histories of the two disciplines, pointing out avenues for future cooperation, urging 
practitioners of computational linguistics and humanities computing to collaborate in the 
creation of large linguistic repositories and of tools to analyze them. Likewise critical of 
the isolation of computational linguistics from the concerns of the humanities, Elizabeth 
Burr advocates setting aside a theory-driven approach to linguistics, which she argues has 
suffered from a dualistic conception of language based in the analysis of binary 
opposites, in favor of a data-driven approach, which assumes a functional attitude toward 
language and focuses on the analysis of corpora of naturally-occurring linguistic 
productions. A functional stance furthermore introduces an historical perspective that 
recognizes the evolutionary development of dialects and sociolects, as well as a linguistic 
knowledge perspective that considers the limits of a speaker’s competence. In his essay 
on “Researching and teaching literature in the digital era,” Giuseppe Gigliozzi outlines 
various initiatives of the Centro Ricerche Informatica e Letteratura (CRILet) at the 
University of Rome, which he directs, before turning to some theoretical reflections on 
the methodologies he has employed. In the final section, Gigliozzi offers a series of 
observations on the situation of humanities computing in Italy, correlating its emergence 
with the need to define alternative professional profiles within glutted humanities 
faculties. 

Readers less interested in theoretical or professional concerns may wish to turn 
directly to the last four essays, which offer a variety of case studies. David Robey 
discusses computerized techniques he has used to analyze the sound features of Dante’s 
Divine Comedy and investigate whether patterns of accented syllables and assonance can 
be correlated with literary devices operating in the poem. In the only non-English 
contribution to the volume, Massimo Guerrieri discusses a project to present and compare 
statistically the variant editions of Eugenio Montale’s Mottetti. Guerrieri’s paper will help 
those less familiar with SGML (Standard Generalized Markup Language) and the TEI 
understand how they can be used to prepare textual corpora for analysis using tools such 
as TACT (Text Analysis Computing Tools), developed at the University of Toronto. 
Staffan Bjérk and Lars Erik Holmquist, two younger researchers from the Interactive 
Institute in Gothenburg, Sweden, sketch their development of software to facilitate 
simultaneous browsing of textual variants. Their work on interface design and screen 
display issues highlights the importance of devoting attention to these practical aspects of 
humanities computing in tandem with refining programs to perform computational and 
lexical analysis. Finally, Licia Calvi describes a hypertext project built around the 
teaching of postmodern Italian literature at Brown University. 

The regrettable absence of a centralized site for CLIP on the Web makes following 


584  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


the evolution of the annual seminar difficult, though remnants of earlier calls for papers 
do contain some useful links to further information about participants and their projects. 
In addition, New Media and the Humanities includes a comprehensive list of works cited. 
More current sources on electronic philology can be found by browsing issues of 
Computers and the Humanities or the archives of the Humanist electronic discussion 
group (both sponsored by the Association for Computers and the Humanities), as well as 
the journals Literary and Linguistic Computing and Computational Linguistics. 

Christian Dupont, University of Notre Dame 


Mauro Novelli. J “saggi lirici” di Delio Tessa. Milano: Pubblicazioni della Facolta di 
Lettere e Filosofia dell’Universita degli Studi, Edizioni Universitarie di Lettere 
Economia Diritto, 2001. 

Non é facile cimentarsi coi poeti in dialetto del Novecento italiano. Non c’é conoscenza 
— o addirittura pratica — diretta dei vernacoli che alleggerisca pili di tanto lo sforzo 
interpretativo di fronte al rigore autoriale della poesia moderna, dove i sedimenti 
connotativi vengono spinti sino alla saturazione. E sicuramente il caso di Delio Tessa 
(1885-1940), formidabile quanto trascurato poeta del Novecento in  milanese, 
recentemente riedito per la cura magistrale di Dante Isella (L ’é el di di mort, alegher! De 
la del mur e altre poesie, Torino, Einaudi, 1985 e 1999) a cui dedica ora una densa 
monografia Mauro Novelli, milanese di formazione schiettamente filologica. (Da 
segnalare inoltre il profilo introduttivo di Giuseppe Anceschi: Delio Tessa, profilo di un 
poeta, Milano, Marcos y Marcos, 1987.) 

Gia nell’impianto generale il libro si distingue per il rigore filologico. L’ordine dei 
capitoli si attiene a una chiara progressione dal dato materiale all’ideologia: un primo 
capitolo é dedicato alle vicende editoriali (“Alle soglie”), un secondo alla lingua e allo 
stile (“Il chiodo dello stile”), un terzo alla metrica (“Metri e ritmi”), un quarto allo 
svolgimento retorico-narrativo (“Modalita narrative”) e un quinto appunto all’ideologia 
generale di Tessa (“Una parabola ideologica”). Seguono un’interessante appendice 
documentaria (due corrispondenze giornalistiche di Tessa, una scaletta del programma di 
una serata di letture pubbliche di poesia dello stesso, due cronache di tali serate) e 
un’ampia e dettagliata bibliografia. Il libro é sicuramente I’esito felice di un lungo e 
preciso lavoro di schedatura e di ricerca, che sicuramente trova il suo trattamento 
adeguato nella suddivisione dei capitoli. L’analisi testuale ne esce un po’ sacrificata, ma 
sia l’editore sia la collana fanno pensare a uno strumento destinato a chi gia abbia 
confidenza con Tessa e con la sua lingua (tant’é che i versi milanesi non vengono 
tradotti). 

Il primo capitolo descrive molto bene le vicende editoriali e le scelte di Tessa sui 
testi da includere e da escludere. (Convince la tesi di due periodi essenziali di 
composizione, 1909-1912 e 1929-1936, anche se le eccezioni individuate, penso io, 
andrebbero trattate in quanto tali e motivate di conseguenza.) Gia nelle scelte emerge un 
Tessa che non si concede ai gusti consolatori dominanti della poesia in dialetto 
dell’epoca, ma insegue un suo rigore personale, a volte esasperato nelle pagine di 
didascalia per la pubblica lettura (e Tessa era un ricercato conferenziere e lettore in 
pubblico). Il resoconto e l’analisi delle differenze tra progetti autoriali ed esiti editoriali 
mette in luce molti aspetti importanti di un lavoro poetico isolato e solitario, esigente e 
preciso. Convince meno, invece, il voler far perno su alcuni testi centrali portati a termine 
nella maturita e relegare gli altri — i testi giovanili, ma anche gli autocommenti — alla 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 585 


periferia delle ipostasi di ordine inferiore. Emerge |’esigenza storicista e idealistica di 
voler fissare a tutti i costi i tratti coerenti di un autore in pochi componimenti rigorosi 
“non annegati nella disomogeneita dei libri che a lungo li hanno tenuti imprigionati, 
lontani dal grande pubblico come dalla miglior critica” (16). E chiaro che Novelli vuole 
riscattare Tessa dal silenzio di tante autorita critiche, Contini in prima fila; e in cid ha 
tutte le migliori ragioni del mondo. Sara perd opportuno continuare il lavoro critico 
secondo altri presupposti, senza aver paura delle incoerenze e delle contraddizioni dei 
testi, che forse li rendono ancora pit interessanti. 

Resta fermo comunque, quello si, il rigore tessiano dello stile e la scelta del dialetto 
come rifiuto dello iato sociale tra popolo e borghesia, analizzato in maniera eccellente nel 
secondo capitolo. Novelli riferisce che il milanese di Tessa tende a una mimesi 
immediata ricercata attraverso la testimonianza diretta. L’“unico maestro: il popolo che 
parla”, come recita |’introduzione dell’autore a L’é e/ di di mort, alegher!, ha il suo 
corrispettivo in un quaderno-calepino di espressioni registrate dal vivo e quindi 
intensamente mimetiche. Da cid il lessico specifico, la toponomastica precisa e insistita; 
da cid anche la polifonia, la concomitanza di pit registri, analoga a quella di Gadda, 
come gia notava Isella, e che il libro indaga con dovizia di particolari. Novelli perd 
distigue tra plurilinguismo ed espressionismo: non sono sinonimi, anche se in Tessa si 
trovano entrambi. L’espressionismo tessiano, secondo Novelli, é nella ripetizione dei 
termini, nella frammentazione della sintassi e nell’inconclusivita, cioé nelle forme in cui 
la tradizione orale viene rivisitata dall’interno e messa a dura prova dal contrasto con la 
modernita; é il precipitato della tradizione orale in un’epoca dove la piena percezione non 
€ pil’ permessa (come nota giustamente Novelli, Benjamin é de rigueur). A questa 
frammentazione si accompagna il senso della durezza del dialetto milanese come armonia 
della dissonanza, coerente con la cultura musicale aperta e aggiornata di Tessa. La 
musica é evocazione visionaria che sfocia in un gusto (quasi feticista, direi) per la parola, 
da cui la predilezione per un Ungaretti “tutto musica e suono”; ne fa fede I’inventario di 
espressioni provvisto in calce. 

Coerente e complementare con le conclusioni sull’ornato e sullo stile é l’indagine 
sulla metrica nel terzo capitolo. Dopo la prima fase di apprendistato, Tessa abbandona gli 
strumenti tradizionali dei verseggiatori milanesi e piglia la sua strada, a volte 
cimentandosi col verso libero, rinsaldato casomai da rime interne di connessione, e a 
volte rivisitando e svuotando dall’interno la stessa tradizione impiegata prima. Sembra 
essere il caso di “Caporetto 1917”, in cui Novelli legge il rovesciamento carnevalesco 
delle consolatorie quartine di settenari di tante “bosinate” anche di Tessa stesso; dietro 
altri recuperi scorge invece la tentazione dell’endecasillabo-settenario leopardiano. Ergo 
la classificazione: a) testi dalla stroficita regolare, b) testi costanti nel verso, ma senza 
strutture strofiche riconoscibili. La conferma della mancata concessione all’oralita e alla 
cantabilita trova conferma in un puntuale conteggio metrico, spinto a volte al tecnicismo 
esasperato e poco leggibile, anche se pieno di riscontri importanti. E questo, secondo me, 
il punto dolente del libro: il metodo e |’impianto strettamente filologico gia nell’ordine 
dei capitoli ha sicuramente il vantaggio di render conto con chiarezza del lavoro di 
ricognizione dei materiali e delle linee ricorrenti, ma spesso si disperde in frammenti di 
citazioni testuali che con fatica si riconnettono al testo intero, alla sua collocazione 
storica, alla sua interpretabilita. 

L’uscita dalla stilistica e dalla metrica in senso stretto porta alla valutazione ben piu 
agevole — e, per chi scrive, pil interessante — delle modalita narrative, nel quarto 


586 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


capitolo del libro. Non si pud non essere pienamente d’accordo sull’analogia del rapporto 
Tessa-Porta a quello Gadda-Manzoni: alla devozione verso il modello tradizionale di 
ragionevolezza critica si accompagna e si sovrappone la consapevolezza del non poterlo 
applicare; da questo deriva la lacerazione della modernita. Novelli ipotizza un paragone 
con le forme della narrazione cinematografica, anche sulla scorta dell’amore di Tessa per 
il cinema e la pratica di recensore sull’Ambrosiano e sul Corriere del Ticino: é un invito 
d’eccezione all’approfondimento. I] principio dialogico e, per cosi dire, romanzesco, 
individuato nel presente indicativo come tempo di attuazione e non di commento, da una 
chiave di lettura fondamentale dei testi e della molteplicita dei piani narrativi. Gia qui si 
mette in rilievo il livello di esistenza e di espressione dell’io, che nella sua solidarieta col 
lettore ideale/narratario non ha nulla di lirico; al contrario, é grottesco, realistico (e in 
questo é forse lontano dal Delio Tessa storico). La poesia ha quindi un valore del tutto 
segnico, di realta ricostruita in virti di una sua significativita testuale, per cui “tutti gli 
esistenti chiamati in causa vengono immancabilmente investiti da una fortissima carica 
simbolica. Per Tessa, come gia per Baudelaire, a contatto con la modernita urbana tutto 
‘devient allégorie’” (150). La Milano del regime, in continua trasformazione verso i 
modelli pit’ funzionali al razionalismo capitalista, resta fuori e lo spazio della poesia 
diventa uno spazio privato del poeta-/laneur e dei suoi personaggi, felici al di fuori del 
processo produttivo (vecchi e bambini), schiavi di esso infelici e consapevoli (prostitute, 
operai, soldati) o felici e inconsapevoli (contadini intontiti). Lo spazio della poesia e della 
creativita diventa allora uno spazio privato, uno spazio rimosso, personale, pensato. 

Il conflitto con la modernita trova il suo svolgimento completo nel quinto capitolo, 
che illustra lo scetticismo estremista e allo stesso tempo conservatore di Tessa, molto 
probabilmente ispirato dalle dottrine di Tolstoj, molto diffuse nell’ Italia dell’epoca. Ma la 
vera assonanza é di certo con Baudelaire. Nei due autori si riconosce lo stesso rapporto 
contraddittorio e conflittuale con la modernita. Le ben note elucidazioni di Walter 
Benjamin potrebbero benissimo valere in tutto e per tutto anche per Delio Tessa. 

In “Caporetto 1917” lo shock della folla ci riporta alle pagine dei Passages di 
Benjamin, con la descrizione della folla in preda alle dinamiche manipolatorie della 
modernita industriale, di fronte a cui Tessa rimane scettico e avverso. Per Tessa la folla é 
complementare alla svolta al razionalismo utilitaristico dei ceti medi, cooptati dal potere 
fascista, che ha cancellato la quiete liberale della Milano artigiana e piccolo-borghese per 
farne una societa divisa in capitalisti e socialisti, padroni e lavoratori egualmente 
manipolabili. Traspare un Tessa pit crociano che gobettiano, che tolstoianamente guarda 
all’arte come possibilita di redenzione, ma allo stesso tempo intuisce nelle forme della 
modernita l’ambiguo atteggiamento verso le masse: urto rivoluzionario da un lato, 
cooptazione del capitale dall’altro. Lontano da tutto questo sta il poeta, l’ultimo uomo del 
mondo, il reietto sociale non integrabile nel sistema produttivo. Come afferma Tessa 
medesimo: “[...] all’uomo normale non resta che guardarlo da lontano; fuggirlo quando é 
vivo, studiarlo quando é morto” (209) . 

Nonostante le difficolta di cui s’é detto, il libro di Novelli é uno strumento molto 
importante e un indubbio stimolo alla lettura e allo studio di Tessa. I primi capitoli sono 
utilissimi per l’elucidazione dei problemi pit strettamente legati alla lingua; gli ultimi, 
anche se a volte discontinui e frammentari, aprono verso ipotesi critiche forse cruciali e 
di certo da verificare. Sono i segni di un’altra orbita; sta a noi, fatte salve le opportune 
cautele di lettura, seguirli. 

Andrea Malaguti, Columbia University 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 587 


Valeria Finucci and Kevin Brownlee, eds. Generation and Degeneration: Tropes of 
Reproduction in Literature and History. Durham: Duke UP, 2001. 


The evocative title of this collection of essays edited by Valeria Finucci and Kevin 
Brownlee, Generation and Degeneration, is more than a clever play on words. 
Generation and degeneration, whether as rhetorical figures, historiographic devices, 
and/or textual traditions, dominate the ten essays that make up the volume, incessantly 
underscoring the prolific bond between making and unmaking, producing and destroying, 
continuity and interruption. Thus, the term “reproduction” in the book’s subtitle is 
understood in a very wide sense. In Finucci’s and Brownlee’s book, it can refer, rather 
literally, to the biological conception of Jesus or of Tasso’s heroine Clorinda in their 
mother’s womb, but also, more metonymically, to the representation of menstruation and 
the clitoris in different discourses, to the literary genealogy of women and men writers, or 
to the historical descent of western medicine. 

The authors of the ten essays are literary critics, historians, and scholars of religion. 
Most of them write from a perspective influenced by feminism and cultural studies; all go 
beyond the traditional boundaries of their particular discipline. Yet, among the pleasant 
surprises of this book, and certainly one of its many strengths, is that although the topics 
covered span from classical antiquity to the, Renaissance and even into the eighteenth 
century, from Greece and Asia Minor to Italy, Spain, and England, from textual criticism 
and literary analysis to the history of medicine and of ideas, the volume presents itself as 
singularly unified and coherent. 

As every one of these essays was a captivating read, I must at least briefly introduce 
each one. The first part of the book is titled “Theories of Reproduction” and contains two 
essays. Through a close reading of fourth- and fifth-century sources, Elizabeth Clark 
details the polemic between Augustine and Julian of Eclanum on original sin, and its 
implications for the reproduction of human beings, and especially for the conception of 
Jesus. Valeria Finucci employs a Freudian-Lacanian lens to draw a historical and cultural 
outline of the construction of maternal and filial monstrosity in Tasso’s Gerusalemme 
liberata, and in Renaissance Italy more generally. The second part of the book, 
“Boundaries of Sex and Gender,” is made up of three essays. Dale Martin examines, in a 
straightforward and convincing historical account, the connections between two aspects 
of gender construction in Greco-Roman culture: sexual asceticism and male 
menstruation. He concludes that, despite the monolithic appearance of the Greco-Roman 
standards of manhood, it is precisely ambiguity that gave the ancient ideology of 
masculinity much of its power. Gianna Pomata’s related essay on menstruating men is 
boldly original, and likely to change the way we interpret ancient and early-modern 
constructions of the female body. As Pomata makes clear, the phenomenon of the 
menstruating male in the Renaissance and through the eighteenth century shows us 
doctors who understand male bodily functions through the model provided by the female 
menstruating body, against the more widely accepted historical understanding that the 
ideal body type, up to the end of the eighteenth century, was male. In her reading of 
seventeenth-century travel narratives and anatomical texts, Valerie Traub disarticulates 
the connection between the clitoris and the lesbian (central to Freud’s account of 
lesbianism as an infantile stage of sexual development), and, more generally, she 
deconstructs the ultimately essentialist equation between body part and embodied desire, 


588 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


and of embodied desire and erotic identity. 

The third part of the volume, “Female Genealogies,” presents Marina Scordilis 
Brownlee’s essay on Maria de Zayas, a seventeenth-century Spanish writer of 
transgressive fiction, and Maureen Quilligan’s analysis of the print history of Elizabeth 
I’s translation of Marguerite de Navarre’s work. “The Politics of Inheritance” is the title 
of the last part of the book. Nancy Siraisi’s contribution is a historical essay on the role of 
Egyptian medicine in sixteenth-century constructions of medical history at the University 
of Padua. This genealogical interest was motivated both by the humanistic search for the 
most ancient and purest medical wisdom, and by the political and economic environment 
of a university city so geographically close to Venice. Kevin Brownlee’s essay also deals 
with genealogies, this time literary rather than medical ones: the response to and levels of 
acceptance of, or rebellion against, the cultural hegemony of France in Brunetto Latini’s 
Il Tesoretto, the anonymous // Fiore, and Dante’s Commedia. According to Brownlee, 
the Commedia’s denial of the canonical status of the Romance of the Rose, in favor of an 
italo-centric genealogy, epitomizes Dante’s rebellious reaction to French culture and 
power in general. Brownlee’s essay subtly yet persuasively underscores the political force 
of literature, and the importance of genealogy and reproduction in the acquisition of that 
power. Finally, Peter Stallybrass’s essay on ghosts of the Renaissance English stage 
examines the materialization of genealogy through the figure of the theatrical ghost. He 
probes, that is, the connections between clothing (especially armors), the body, and 
memory, as well as the slippage, within traditional genealogy, between these elements 
and the identity of the male subject. 

Generation and Degeneration accomplishes several admirable goals at once. First of 
all, it makes an important scholarly contribution to the growing interdisciplinary field of 
the study of reproduction. It brings together excellent examples of different disciplines 
and approaches. Through its plurivocality, it invites the reader to make connections, 
realize continuities, and accept divergences between the construction of generation and 
degeneration in several countries, disparate historical periods, and diverse discourses: 
literary, medical, theological, philosophical, historical, and artistic. It is not an easy book, 
though some essays are more lucid than others. For example, Dale Martin’s and Gianna 
Pomata’s essays were particularly well-written and approachable even for the non- 
specialist, while Valerie Traub’s and Maureen Quilligan’s articles were more demanding 
in terms of theoretical jargon and historical contextualization, respectively. Because of 
their intrinsic interdisciplinarity, most of the essays in this collection will provide an 
enriching and stimulating read for anyone interested in the topics of generation and 
degeneration, regardless of the reader’s historical and/or geographic area of specialty. 

Cristina Mazzoni, University of Vermont 


Franco Nasi, a cura di. Intorno alla via Emilia: Per una geografia culturale dell’Italia 
contemporanea. Atti del convegno La Via Emilia. Cultural Journeys through 
Contemporary Italy. Italian Cultural Institute, Chicago, University of Chicago, 11-13 
maggio 2000. Boca Raton, FL: Bordighera Press, 2001. 

Nel maggio del 2000 si é tenuto a Chicago un interessante convegno, La Via Emilia. 
Cultural Journeys through Contemporary Italy. Si & inaugurata cosi una serie di incontri 
sulla cultura dell’Italia contemporanea, che nell’intento dei curatori dovrebbero avere per 
argomento via via una zona specifica del nostro territorio. Questo primo incontro ha 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 589 


avuto un seguito recentemente con la Sardegna quale argomento chiave. Sembra quindi 
essere un percorso di interesse per vari studiosi, perlomeno nel senso dato a tale 
iniziativa, quello di aprire un itinerario culturale e letterario che ci accompagni in varie 
regioni italiane. Penso che negli atti del convegno sia evidente la riuscita di tale progetto, 
persino a chi non ha potuto parteciparvi: mostrare cioé una regione, o in questo caso piu 
precisamente la regione denotata e connotata da un’antica strada consolare (il cui 
tracciato era tra l’altro preesistente ai tempi romani) e inoltrarsi nei territori al di qua e al 
di la di tale strada che registra da secoli la cultura nella pianura del Po. Inoltrarsi in tutti i 
sensi e in tutte le direzioni: si va da Piacenza a Rimini (ad eccezione dell’intervento di 
Davide Rondoni), attraversando la bellissima strada che raccoglie intorno a sé una 
miniera (certo esplorata, ma comunque ancora ricca) di esempi dell’arte italiana. II 
percorso riguarda l’arte, si scandaglia fra i meandri delle industrie e del loro complesso 
rapporto con l’espressione artistica, nella musica (classica e leggera, Verdi e Ligabue), 
nel cinema (dovrebbero dichiarare |’Emilia una “zona protetta” della nostra Penisola), 
nella poesia, nella prosa e nelle arti visuali. Insomma, quella di analizzare la via Emilia 
rappresenta un’ottima scelta iniziale per un percorso che segna solo l’inizio di tale 
esperimento di collaborazione fra |’Istituto Italiano di Cultura di Chicago e istituzioni 
universitarie italiane e statunitensi. 

Trovo assolutamente necessaria l’esistenza di convegni di questo tipo, cioé tematici, 
ma non nel senso usuale dato al termine. II termine “tematico” deve essere inteso come 
un pretesto, come possibilita di dare (finalmente) un indispensabile andamento sincronico 
degli interventi nel campo che si usa definire studi culturali. Gli interventi, si é detto, 
sono tra i pil’ vari: Marco Belpoliti traccia un’ipotesi sul sentimento della letteratura 
padana, appunto la “poetica del magone”; Rebecca West parla dei suoi incontri con autori 
“padani”; Daniele Benati porge un omaggio a Raffaello Baldini; Adria Bernardi spiega la 
difficile arte del tradurre autori di questa zona; Alberto Bertoni analizza poesie legate alla 
Via Emilia come anche Davide Rondoni. Narratori come Tondelli, Celati, Guerra, 
Malerba, 0 giovani poeti come Gianfranco Lauretano, Francesca Serragnoli, e Antonio 
Riccardi vengono ripresentati alla luce di questo itinerario; Walter Valeri descrive con 
grande lucidita il grande cantiere della sperimentazione teatrale emiliano-romagnolo, con 
le esperienze delle Albe, della Societas Raffaello Sanzio e delle sperimentazioni multi- 
etniche del Teatro delle Albe; il regista Davide Ferrario e Luca Caminati tracciano delle 
coordinate sul cinema e la musica, Barbolini su musica e letteratura; Sarah Hill ci 
illumina sui paesaggi che la fotografia di Luigi Ghirri inquadra con grande bravura. E 
questo il genere di lavori che ci consente, contro le critiche di un lamentabile 
assorbimento degli studi filologici e letterari nel campo di quegli culturali, di afferrare 
assai meglio il senso di un prodotto letterario quando viene inserito nel contesto geo- 
sociale della zona dove tale produzione intellettuale é la fonte dello stesso. Esiste, ed é 
sempre esistita, l’urgenza di capire il contesto socio-politico di un’opera letteraria, ma 
essa si fa pili evidente particolarmente quando questa opera si interroga e si presenta 
davanti a un pubblico di non-italiani, come nel caso di chi insegna e fa ricerca fuori dai 
confini del paese. Troppo spesso infatti si leggono analisi su lavori italiani (ma credo sia 
un problema comune a tante realta) assolutamente ignare della cornice culturale che 
racchiude e dell’humus di cui tali opere si nutrono. Unica riserva, forse, é la seguente: 
siamo sicuri che ovunque potremmo trovare tale ricchezza di autori e artisti, di idee e 
movimenti, di tendenze e fervori culturali? In tutta onesta non mi sentirei di rispondere 
affermativamente. Resta il fatto comunque che questi atti riflettono una pienezza di 


590 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


intenti e una bravura nella scelta degli argomenti trattati dai diversi relatori da meritare 
un’attenta lettura, piacevole ed informativa al tempo stesso. 

Con questo non dico che i vari interventi siano tutti allo stesso livello. Si va da 
attentissime e brillanti analisi, come quella del territorio di Davide Papotti, oppure quella 
sul rock emiliano e la sua mitologia di Roberto Barbolini, ad altre che effettivamente 
sono pit degli atti di presenza nell’argomento e che non lasciano il segno. 

La nota introduttiva di Franco Nasi situa geograficamente |’antica strada consolare, 
affidandosi anche all’ausilio, ricercato quasi con affetto, dei grandi autori (Guareschi, 
Zavattini), e attraversa temi ed abitudini di chi vive da un lato e dall’altro della via. Centri 
storici e periferie del non-luogo oggi caratterizzando coem ricorda il curatore del volume, 
gran parte della pianura padana. Ma lo scopo del convegno non era quello di fare il punto 
della situazione, bensi di riunire coloro che, in modi e generi diversi, si occupano di 
questa zona, la cui comune caratteristica, trovata “sconfinando fra le arti” appare essere la 
forza disorientante che ne governa il lavoro. 

La relazione di Davide Papotti, studioso di geografia presso |’universita di Padova, 
“Emilia-Romagna: variazioni geografiche su un’identita culturale regionale”, costituisce 
il prologo quasi d’obbligo alla raccolta di saggi. La relazione di Roberto Barbolini, 
“Dagli Appennini alle Honda: raccontare tra la via Emilia e il rock”, splendida mitologia 
del rock in Emilia, traccia un interessantissimo excursus del rock emiliano, tra i 
vagabondi sperduti nella pianura delle balere alla Casadei e dello sballo degli Altri 
libertini: inquietudine motoria e bisogno di “far tana” sia pure dopo fughe e ritorni. Da 
Delfini a Tondelli, questo é lo splendido affresco di uomini profondamente inseriti nel 
loro contesto territoriale e proprio per questo desiderosi di altri spazi. La nobilta di tale 
regione appare intatta in questo ritratto a tutto tondo della sua arte. O meglio, quasi a 
tuttotondo, perché, duole dirlo, ad eccezione di West, Hill e Adria Bernardi, tre donne 
che perd parlano di Guerra, Baldini, Celati e Ghirri, questo ritratto sembra 
apparentemente priva di donne, autrici, scrittrici, artiste, critiche, registe, anche se si 
esplicita e si evince al suo meglio proprio in questa esaltazione dell’espressione artistica 
in tutti sensi: la voce, il bel canto, il tatto e il palato, la vista. 

“Fuori e dentro il borgo”: penso che il cantautore Ligabue (ma anche regista, 
scrittore, ecc.) abbia ragione a parlare dell’Emilia in questi toni: centro e periferia, 
margine di cosa? Margine di quale realta? Una realta settentrionale, legata alla regione (e 
se parliamo di regione, parliamo solo dell’Emilia, o includiamo la Romagna di Rimini, e 
quella magari delle vacanze estive dei personaggi del Bassani degli Occhiali d’oro?), 
oppure una realta diventata internazionale come quella di Antonioni e dei suoi 
emblematici film come Deserto rosso, in cui paesaggi diventano nature morte alla 
Morandi? Pure essendo ben legato alla sua via Emilia, quello emiliano rappresenta un 
mito culturale per molti di noi perché é una cultura mai avversa alla sperimentazione (il 
verri, frigidaire, il cannibale, Dylan Dog, “Ricercare” ecc.) e pure vicina alle sue radici 
di terra di aromi naturali, di mosto, di nebbia. Da cui tutti dovrebbero trarre ispirazione. 

Stefania Lucamante, The Catholic University of America 


Marco Bertozzi. L’immaginario urbano nel cinema delle origini: La veduta Lumiere. 
Bologna: CLUEB, 2001. Pp. 259. 

Hans Robert Jauss’s seminal essay, “Literary History as a Challenge to Literary Theory” 
provided a programmatic statement for reception studies and contributed to a paradigm 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 591 


shift in literary and cultural studies. In cinema studies, a similar paradigm shift took place 
beginning in the late 1970s with a turn toward history and an increasing interest in 
questions of reception. Mounting a challenge to grand theory, and seeking to re- 
invigorate a field dominated by auteur criticism and by textual studies of a limited and 
seemingly ossified canon, a group of international film scholars began to focus on early 
cinema. The results over the past two decades — as measured by the production of new 
research, by the establishment of new research agendas, and through the re-examination 
of received knowledge — have been nothing less than phenomenal. This remarkable 
renewal of interest in “silent film” on the international level, with a particular emphasis 
on early cinema, has also helped to propel a wide array of academic conferences and 
associations, ambitious archival projects of film restoration as well as an increase in 
public screenings of early films, whether in local cinemas with live piano-accompaniment 
or through government-sponsored programs intended for national television audiences. 

Contributing to this flowering of historical scholarship, Marco Bertozzi’s well- 
researched and carefully organized study, L’immaginario urbano nel cinema delle 
origini: la veduta Lumiere, reflects the interdisciplinary nature of the field and meets the 
challenge that such an undertaking entails. Combining architectural history, cultural 
theory, and visual analysis, Bertozzi traces the interaction between representations of the 
city pre-dating the emergence of the cinema with those produced by the Lumiére 
operators in the final years of the nineteenth century. The corpus of this study is formed 
by the Lumiéres’ vues — “views” or “vedute” as they are known in Italian: brief fifty- 
second films of urban spaces filmed by those intrepid pioneers of the Cinématographe. 
Bertozzi analyzes these texts within the context(s) of pre-existing forms of visual 
representation. In the process, he provides both a synthesis of previous scholarship, 
which is vast, and an original contribution to the expanding international discourse on 
early cinema. 

In the first part of the book, the author describes the historical and theoretical 
premises of his research. Bertozzi locates his study within the social-cultural parameters 
of the “cinema of attractions” as theorized by Tom Gunning and André Gaudreault: 
“Esemplare é la ricerca di Tom Gunning sul concetto di cinema delle attrazioni, con il 
quale i primi tempi del cinema vengono osservati in relazione ai pit’ vasti fenomeni della 
modernita e del consumo. La messa in crisi di modelli storiografici precedenti avviene 
attraverso un’attenta analisi dei cambiamenti sensoriali indotti dall’avvento della civilta 
industriale, analizzati nel sistema planetario delle nuove communicazioni di massa” (16). 
He also notes the importance of the work of Noel Burch on the relations between cinema 
and society, as well as such film historians as Ian Cristie, Richard Abel, and Gian Piero 
Brunetta, whose II viaggio dell’'icononauta dalla camera oscura di Leonardo alla luce 
dei Lumiére (Venezia: Marsilio 1997) has helped to establish the research tradition to 
which Bertozzi seeks to contribute: “[...] una storia della visione con apparecchio che 
prima dell’avvento del cinema struttura un mercato comune delle immagini e degli 
immaginari” (17). 

Working in collaboration with the team that organized the famous Lumiére 
retrospective held in Lyon in June of 1995, Bertozzi organizes his study around the close 
analysis of some 430 vues. The selection of these particular texts from within the entire 
Lumiére production — of some 2,000 “films” 1,408 are extant (126n) — was guided by 
the following criteria: “La scelta delle opere é stata effettuata incrociando esigenze 
diverse, innanzitutto iconografiche. Fondamentale si é rivelata la raccolta fotografica 


592  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


realizzata dall’équipe Lumiére [...] nella quale ogni opera in catalogo é testimonianza 
della riproduzione a stampa di un fotogramma. [...] Osservare soggetto e composizione 
del quadro attraverso una riproduzione fotografica risulta dunque un primo, 
rappresentativo, strumento di selezione” (26). The second and third criteria of selection 
are described as follows: “[...] l’importanza di campionare tutte le sezioni del catalogo 
(quelle che oggi, con larga approssimazione, definiremmo i generi) garantendo la 
possibilita di osservare la rivelanza quantitativa e la pregnanza qualitativa della 
rappresentazione urbana nei confronti dell’intera tassonomia Lumiére. Un terzo criterio 
ha riguardato infine la presenza di citta simbolo, luoghi che nonostante |’ancor fragile 
tessuto ermeneutico d’inizio lavori, pareva risultassero ‘non indifferenti’ all’indagine. 
Con una sorta di rete a maglie variabili ho dunque scandagliato le vedute coloniali, le 
principali citta europee ed extraeuropee, nonché la totalita di vedute disponibili per 
Parigi, per le citta italiane e per quelle degli Stati Uniti d’ America” (26). 

To theorize the existence of an “urban imaginary,” Bertozzi, while drawing on a 
variety of sources, relies primarily on concepts made familiar by Jacques Le Goff. The 
French historian’s characterization of the medieval city, for example, has been extended 
by Bertozzi to serve in a modern context: “[...] l’immaginario urbano é dunque 
quell’insieme di rappresentazioni, di immagini e di idee, attraverso le quali una societa 
urbana [...] costruisce per se stessa e per gli altri un autopersonaggio, un autoritratto” 
(36). 

After delimiting a textual corpus and explaining the critical and theoretical 
frameworks to be employed, Bertozzi, in the second part of the book entitled “Alla 
ricerca delle origini,” traces the iconography of the city through various technological 
means of representation. The optical devices and means of projection discussed include 
the camera obscura, the pantascope, i! mondo nuovo, the magic lantern, the panorama, 
the diorama, and the photorama. Once considered (reductively) to constitute a collective 
history of “pre-cinema,” these technologies of the visible are receiving widespread 
attention today from numerous scholars in diverse disciplines working in different 
national contexts. Bertozzi’s successful synthesis of this scholarship regarding “views of 
the urban” serves as background for his own attempt to illuminate “qualche ‘modello di 
citta’ fra gli avamposti del Cinématographe” (63). 

The second chapter of the second part of the book also traces the complex 
historiography of the technological developments leading to what used to be called the 
“invention” of the cinema. Here Bertozzi joins other scholars such as Guy Fihman, for 
example, in calling for a re-conceptualization of the origins of cinema: “[...] P?urgenza di 
passare a una concezione plurale della storia dell’invenzione, tracciando una nuova storia 
delle storie: rianalizzare l’impresa dei pionieri non significa pit far emergere la figura 
dell’unico e solitario inventore ma la complessita del quadro scientifico-spettacolore e la 
necessita socio-culturale del cinema come esigenza immaginifica” (111). As Bertozzi 
puts it succinctly, “Definire il vero cinema e il vero inventore resta essenzialmente 
esercizio di fede nazionalista” (116). 

The third part of the book, “La citta Lumiére,” is organized into three chapters: 1) 
“Geografie del vedere dinamico,” 2) “Urbanistiche sottili,’ and 3) “Riflessi.” In this 
section, Bertozzi takes us deeper into the specific history of the Lumiéres and their 
contributions to the history of cinema. For example, relating how the French company 
varied its programs according to the needs and interests of different audiences, Bertozzi 
provides the following insight into the dynamics at play in a northern Italian context: 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 593 


“Anche in Italia, dopo le primissime proiezioni in cui prevalenti dovevano essere le 
vedute francesi, i programmi subiscono un duplice processo di espansione: da un lato di 
internazionalizzazione, dall’altro di localizzazione. Dal 20 al 26 dicembre 1896 il 
programma del Cinematografo Lumiére di Via Po, a Torino, prevede ‘projezioni’ come 
La danza serpentina del Trewer di Londra; Macchiette torinesi; Piazza Carlo Felice — 
Torino; Le LL.MM. il Re e la Regina al R. Castello di Monza; la Fontana di Trevi — 
Roma, ecc. Nessuna veduta francese é in programma” (135). 

Our own historical moment, marked as it is by globalization, by new media of 
communication and by new visual technologies, shares affinities with the technological 
plurality and transnational cosmopolitanism within which early cinema emerged. The 
IMAX theatre, digital cinema, interactive video, virtual reality, the World Wide Web all 
“re-mediate,” in Jay David Bolter’s and Richard Grusin’s formulation, earlier media and 
technologies of the audio-visual, most notably cinema, radio, television, illustrated 
magazines and newspapers (Remediation: Understanding New Media, Cambridge: MIT, 
1999). In a similar fashion, as the recent 7th International Domitor Conference held in 
Montreal on “Early Cinema: Technology and Apparatus” (June 18th to 22nd, 2002, 
Cinémathéque quebécoise) served to demonstrate, early cinema re-mediates pre-existing 
technologies and communications media such as those discussed by Bertozzi and a host 
of other scholars. 

These analogies linking the present with the past pose a challenge to the parameters 
of film studies. They also help to explain in part why the study of early cinema has 
become so popular today. Monographs like Bertozzi’s, while focusing specifically on the 
Lumiéres’ relationship to centuries-old traditions of “framing the city” through a host of 
optical devices, open onto broader questions concerning culture, technology and history. 
Bertozzi’s work also includes a bibliography of some twenty pages that provides an 
overview of the topic in its diverse disciplinary manifestations, ranging from visual 
anthropology, sociology and urban studies to painting, literature and philosophy. 

Contributing to an ongoing re-examination of the visual apparatuses and screening 
practices of the past from the perspective of the present, Bertozzi’s L’immaginario 
urbano nel cinema delle origini is highly recommended for film scholars, for students of 
film history, and for anyone else interested in following the fascinating scholarship on 
early cinema. 

John P. Welle, University of Notre Dame 


Sheryl Lynn Postman, and J. Jeli Hernandez, eds. Cinema and Multiculturalism. 
Selected Proceedings. New York and Ottawa: Legas, 2001. Pp. 128. 

Cinema and Multiculturalism é una scelta di saggi presentati all?omonimo simposio 
tenutosi nel marzo 1998 presso il Dipartimento di Lingue della University of 
Massachusetts, Lowell. La raccolta comprende in tutto undici interventi di varia 
lunghezza, preceduti da una prefazione ed un’introduzione dei curatori. Alla base del 
simposio e della raccolta, afferma Postman, era |’intenzione di discutere ed analizzare 
Putilizzo del cinema nello studio del multiculturalismo come veicolo ideale nella 
trasmissione di concetti culturali, razziali, etnici e sociali alla popolazione studentesca 
odierna. Il primo saggio — e discorso d’apertura del convegno -, dal titolo “Screen As 
Window/Screen As Mirror, Cinema as an Interdisciplinary Field of Studies”, é opera 
dello scrittore e scenografo Giose Rimanelli. Rimanelli presenta il saggio in forma di una 


594  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


conversazione immaginaria con un altrettanto immaginario amico scenografo italiano, cui 
Rimanelli si rivolge per consigli su come insegnare corsi sul cinema. L’amico Pico 
Piccolini, soprannominato fellinianamente “Mirandolino”, inizia una chiara e lucida 
disquisizione sull’essenza del cinema ed i requisiti necessari per esserne uno studioso. 
Tale disquisizione é suddivisa in tre parti: il cinema come quintessenza di tutte le arti; il 
cinema come creatore di un nuovo tipo di studioso; il cinema come campo di studi 
interdisciplinari. 

L’ottimo saggio di Rimanelli rappresenta una specie di modello critico che si 
ripete attraverso il resto della raccolta, ovvero l’esporre la materia in chiave accessibile 
allo studente universitario medio. Ciascuno dei saggi affronta il proprio argomento da un 
punto di vista schiettamente didattico. Esemplare in questo senso é il secondo saggio 
proposto dalla raccolta, “Film as a Tool for Teaching Multiculturalism, Philosophy and 
Politics: The Case of Independence Day’ di Jane Freimiller e Jeffrey Gerson. In esso i 
due studiosi partono dalla premessa di un loro corso interdisciplinare, “Politics, 
Philosophy and Film”, in cui il summenzionato film si ¢ dimostrato una miniera di 
discussioni studentesche, tanto da venir ribattezzato “a blockbuster of a teaching tool” 
(34). L’intervento successivo si concentra sulla dinamica tra cinema e storia dell’arte, “Ut 
Pictura Kinesis: Painting as Film, Film as Painting” di Liana De Girolami Cheney. II 
saggio esamina l’influsso di movimenti artistici dominanti sul design visivo e la 
percezione tematica del cinema del ventesimo secolo, analizzando in particolare tre film 
che ricreano vite di pittori: Lust for Life (1956), Vincent and Theo (1990) e Moulin Rouge 
(1986). Il quarto intervento é quello di Mario Aste, “Teresa Sant’Angelo, Italian 
Sausages, Anorexia, and Holiness in Household Saints”. 11 saggio di Aste analizza il film 
di Nancy Savoca del 1993, concentrandosi dettagliatamente sull’obbiettivo della 
protagonista Teresa: diventare una santa attraverso l’astensione dal cibo ed una vita di 
abnegazione. 

L’articolo successivo s’intitola “American Twist: The Remaking of a Femme 
Fatale” di Joseph Garreau, in cui lo studioso esamina le somiglianze e le soprattutto le 
differenze tra Nikita di Luc Besson (1990) ed il suo remake hollywoodiano Point of No 
Return di John Badham, del 1993. Garreau si concentra soprattutto su come in entrambi 1 
film i registi replicano i preconcetti dell’essenza della femminilita nelle proprie culture, 
quella francese di Besson e quella americana di Badham. Segue |’intervento di Barbara 
Langell Miliarus, “Symbolism, Surrealism and Sexuality in John Duigan’s Sirens”, in cui 
la studiosa esamina il film del 1994 ed espone al tempo stesso la propria esperienza di 
insegnante, avendolo utilizzato in un suo corso su “Women in Film”. Langell afferma che 
a prima vista Sirens sembra meramente “a comic bit of erotica” (63) ma, tenute in conto 
le molte allusioni (sofisticate e sovversive al tempo stesso) ai movimenti artistici del 
tempo in cui é ambientata la vicenda, la “not-so-feminist agenda” del film si dimostra 
schiettamente parodica (64) — soprattutto nel finale, un vero e proprio “trionfo dell’ arte e 
della natura sulle limitazioni imposte dalla morente confederazione della Chiesa e 
dell’ Impero” (77, traduzione mia). L’articolo successivo é un saggio di Augustus Mastri 
dal titolo “The Decameron According to Pasolini”. Mastri prende il via dalla questione di 
‘cosa ha fatto Pasolini dell’opera di Boccaccio’ ed annuncia fin dall’inizio che, 
nonostante il regista avesse detto di voler rendere omaggio allo scrittore, egli fece in 
verita ben poco a tale scopo — anzi, il film pasoliniano sarebbe per molti aspetti una 
distorsione ed una grave mutilazione della fonte letteraria (81). 11 Decameron di Pasolini, 
conclude il Mastri, é un omaggio a Pasolini stesso, non a Boccaccio, ed é in tal senso che 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 595 


va interpretato: da un punto di vista didattico dunque, secondo il critico, il film non 
rappresenta un veicolo valido per una migliore comprensione dell’ opera boccacciana. 

Il saggio che segue é a mio avviso uno degli interventi pit interessanti del libro, 
“The Incredibly True Adventure of Teenage Homosexuality in American Cinema” di 
Timothy Shary. Si tratta di una bella carrellata sul cinema americano giovanile gay & 
lesbian (pit gay che lesbian, a dire il vero), in cui lo studioso traccia un itinerario che 
svela un lento processo di accettazione dell’omosessualita (anche se sempre vissuta con 
grandi complicazioni) nel cinema americano giovanile ed un progressivo allontanamento 
dalle rappresentazioni estreme del “diverso” che hanno tradizionalmente popolato il 
cinema americano (e non). Il rono intervento é “The Days of Maximum Film at 
Minimum Price: Pittsburgh Exhibition at the Crossroads, 1914-1916” di Michael 
Aronson. In questo saggio Aronson orienta |’indagine nel campo delle sale di proiezione 
regionali (in questo caso particolare i cineteatri di Pittsburgh tra il 1914 ed il 1916), con 
l’intento di “cominciare a situare storicamente il cineteatro entro un pil vasto panorama 
culturale” (101). Segue un secondo saggio di Mario Aste, “From Western to Gangster 
Films: American Society Observing and Observed”. Aste ribadisce l’importanza del 
cinema come veicolo di sviluppo culturale prendendo ad esempio due generi, il Western 
ed il Gangster. Aste paragona la parabola del Western americano a quella del suo 
corrispettivo d’oltreoceano, il “Western all’ italiana” che ebbe tanta fortuna negli anni “60 
e ’70, tracciandone soprattutto le differenze non solo stilistiche, ma anche e soprattutto 
ideologiche. Chiude la raccolta l’intervento di Herlinda Charpentier Saitz, “Notes: 
Diverse Facets of Puerto Rican Film Today”: un breve resoconto del primo festival del 
cinema portoricano / americano tenutosi a Boston il dicembre 1998, contenente 
descrizioni dei cinque film presentati. Concludendo, la raccolta di saggi qui proposta é 
senz’altro una validissima scelta di ottimi saggi. Purtroppo, perd, la lettura ed il 
godimento dei suddetti diventano spesso difficoltosi a causa della presenza di tanti 
(troppi) refusi ed errori di battuta, che punteggiano la pubblicazione (dall’indice ai titoli 
alle bibliografie), rendendole un gran disservizio. 

Cinzia Di Giulio, Merrimack College 


Carlo Celli. The Divine Comic: The Cinema of Roberto Benigni. The Scarecrow 
Press, Inc. 2001. Pp. 175. 
Carlo Celli’s The Divine Comic: The Cinema of Roberto Benigni offers the first, but 
probably not the last, book-length study of the Italian comic available in English. Celli 
asserts, “Almost overnight Benigni entered the pantheon of Italian cinema legends that 
includes actors Sophia Loren, Anna Magnani, and Marcello Mastroianni, and directors 
Vittorio De Sica, Federico Fellini, Luchino Visconti, Michelangelo Antonioni, and 
Roberto Rossellini” (xi). Inasmuch as Benigni’s filmography lacks the quantity, quality, 
and quantity of quality of these other cinema legends, who were anything but “overnight” 
sensations, Celli’s assertion seems premature at best. Nevertheless, this book aims at 
participating in a canonization process of Benigni which, given the 1999 Oscars and 
critical controversy awarded Life is Beautiful (1997), may be inevitable. The book 
contains two revealing interviews with Benigni, one conducted by Vanina Pezzetti and 
the other by Celli himself, a thorough filmography, a listing of theatrical work, and a half 
dozen photos scattered throughout the volume. 

Celli begins by providing essential biographical information, describing the 


596 = Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


importance of Benigni’s impoverished upbringing in the sort of communal home that 
traditionally served as shelter for sharecroppers. Benigni spent his early childhood in the 
province of Arezzo, later moving to the outskirts of Prato. In either case, Benigni grew up 
in a peasant, pre-industrial environment, learning the ancient Tuscan tradition of the poeti 
a braccio of improvised verse at local taverns. Temporary sojourns at a Jesuit college, 
with an eye toward becoming a priest, and with a circus, which gave him some 
performance skills, form the foundations of Benigni’s conscious attempt to marry popular 
entertainment and socially engaged, or even intellectual, content in a manner not unlike 
that of Dario Fo. In this context, Benigni invokes, and Celli explains, the influence of the 
medieval tradition of the court jester, of the giullare or minstrel, of the commedia 
dell’arte Arlecchino, and of the Tuscan fescennini or fools, in forming a conception of 
comic performance. Benigni explains his own rise in popularity during the Berlusconi era 
by noting that “the more reactionary the state, the more power a comedian has” (148). 
Compulsory consumerism forms a ready target for Benigni’s use of lower body humor to 
lampoon the pretensions and hypocrisies of a society ostensibly organized by the upper 
body, namely the mind. Celli notes of his comic persona, “Cioni explains everything in 
terms of physical experience, including communism, which he says is like a wet dream, 
existing and arriving without knowledge or awareness” (25). The work of Francois 
Rabelais becomes a conscious source for Benigni’s construction of this comic Cioni 
persona, much as Mikhail Bakhtin becomes a suitable and consistent, though not overly 
rigorous, critical source in Celli’s approach to this persona. 

Arriving in Rome in the mid-1970s, Benigni’s “foul-mouthed bumpkin” Mario 
Cioni character was at odds with the esoteric visual displays of Carmelo Bene, Giuliano 
Vasilicd, and Memé Perlini that then dominated the Italian theatre scene. Benigni was 
simply too interested in audience accessibility to pursue their path. Celli dutifully 
recounts the evolution of Benigni’s Cioni persona through its various guises in theatre, 
television, and film. Behind the good-natured ignorance of the Mario Cioni mask, the 
knowing Benigni could incisively attack the usual targets: politicians, the Church, the 
bourgeoisie, and the cultural establishment. Benigni’s staged sabotaging of Italian 
television in Onda libera in 1977, wherein his Cioni character took over the airwaves, 
proved especially fruitful in this regard, catapulting Benigni to the status of “national 
clown” (38). The program calculatedly included “famous Italian newscasters whose 
voices comment off-camera that if someone like Mario Cioni can take over the network, 
then the television monopoly is doomed. These functionaries begin to plot Cioni’s 
assassination” (35). Given Berlusconi’s increasing control over Italian media and 
television in particular, Benigni’s televisual tour de force sabotaged not only the media, 
but its collusion with the political and social status quo as well. 

Cioni’s transfer to film in Berlinguer I Love You in 1977 proved less fortuitous, as 
Benigni’s propensity for effusive verbal improvisation was unmatched by his static use of 
the medium. Benigni would apprentice himself out, studying screenwriting with Cesare 
Zavattini, and working as actor-performer with such directors as Renzo Arbore, Marco 
Ferreri, Sergio Citti, Jim Jarmusch, Federico Fellini, and Blake Edwards, most of whom 
indulged his talent for improvisation in varying degrees. These experiences behind him, 
Benigni discovered the fabulist realism of Zavattini and Pasolini (via Citti) as models for 
a comic cinema that means serious business, specifically citing such films as Miracle in 
Milan (1950), La ricotta (1963), and Hawks and Sparrows (1966). Celli devotes a small 
amount of discussion to Benigni’s unobtrusive film style as deriving from De Sica’s and 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 597 


Pasolini’s predilection for long takes and medium shots. Noticeably missing from 
Benigni’s cinema, however, are Pasolini’s fetishizing close-ups. Benigni states, “I 
realized that the face of a comedian is so strong that it has to be dealt out carefully” 
(139). The functional shooting for Chaplin and Keaton, that prioritized their bodies in the 
surrounding environment, thus appears as an influence on Benigni as director, much as 
their work influenced him as a performer. Because of their shared ambitious interest in 
using comedy to address political issues, Celli examines Benigni’s indebtedness to 
Chaplin in particular. Conversely, he somewhat neglects Benigni’s relationship to 
Keaton. This is unfortunate, given their shared propensity for generic dress, their mutual 
growth from an Arlecchino-Truffaldino hyper-physical commedia dell’arte tradition, and 
Benigni’s persistent collaboration with Vincenzo Cerami as a parallel to Keaton’s 
recurring work with scriptwriter Eddie Cline. The mechanical crowd chase scene that 
concludes Benigni’s The Monster (1994) evokes the conclusions of most of Keaton’s 
filmography, as Celli rightly observes (93). 

Short chapters provide brief discussions of Benigni’s Cioni-like lampooning of the 
Church in The Little Devil (1988), the mafia in Johnny Stecchino (1991), and the police 
state in The Monster. Such brevity somewhat impairs his discussion of Johnny Stecchino, 
however, when he claims, “Johnny’s death at the end of the film affirms middle-class 
morality” (88). This interpretation selectively neglects the fact that the mafia princess 
Maria, more than merely escaping unscathed, is rewarded for her efforts in punishing 
Johnny for his violation of the code of omerta. Furthermore, Benigni’s satire more 
accurately targets Johnny’s overweening machismo and gynephobia than it does his 
erstwhile criminal dealings. Celli’s most fully realized bit of criticism addresses 
Benigni’s most fully realized film, The Monster. Celli sensitively recounts Benigni’s 
parodic exposure of the intrusive nature of the police state in the media age, as it violates 
the rights of the individual, even as contemporary mass society refuses to accommodate 
individuality. Neither Benigni in his film, nor Celli in his chapter, misses a beat in this 
Fritz Lang M-like critique of Berlusconi’s pathologically consumerist Italy. 

Celli predictably reserves his most in-depth analysis for the problematic Life is 
Beautiful. To his credit, Celli acknowledges the controversy as well as the success of the 
film. He even raises previous critical objections to the film, but his rebuttals prove 
equivocal or unconvincing. Celli lists Fellini’s Amarcord (1974), Wertmiiller’s Seven 
Beauties (1976), and Chaplin’s The Great Dictator (1940) as part of his support for 
Benigni’s use of humor in dealing with Nazi atrocity, but neither Chaplin nor Fellini 
directly addressed the Holocaust. For her part, Wertmiiller turned the Holocaust into 
anything but a “feel-good film,” pushing her audience into a zone of ideological and 
empathetic discomfort instead. The infantilization of the spectator through the use of the 
child Giosué, despite historical implausibility, constitutes just one major objection to the 
film, among others, that Celli addresses. He cites the filmography of De Sica and 
Rossellini in Benigni’s defense. He further argues that Giosué metaphorically provides an 
“emphasis on innocence,” but must also concede that this is “a paradoxical concept given 
the process of the Holocaust that rendered such concepts meaningless” (104). Although 
Benigni had met Primo Levi and had read Survival in Auschwitz, none of his characters 
inhabit the “gray zone” which Levi considered to be so central to the functional dynamics 
of the camps. Instead, Benigni’s characters are either simple good guys or villains. In 
fact, Celli’s odd claim that “Benigni did not rely on caricatures of ‘the evil German’” 
(107) seems to be in reference to another film. Celli’s reading of the film is at its best 


598  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


when he interprets it as a fairy tale, with Benigni’s Guido as a regenerative prince and the 
Germans as ogres. Despite Celli’s apparent admiration for the film, he does take Benigni 
to task for what he calls “an ideological shift’ with regard to Americans at the 
conclusion, especially when compared to the anti-Americanism of his earlier Non ci resta 
che piangere (1984), made with Massimo Troisi. 

While Celli consistently invokes Dante, Rabelais, Schopenhauer, Chaplin, Zavattini, 
Fellini, Pasolini, and Fo as a means of validating his subject, the whole of Benigni seems 
to add up to much less than the sum of these various impressive parts, at least to an 
admittedly resistant reader such as myself. Celli’s eminently readable and informative 
book perhaps suffers from a malady that has been plaguing current Italian film criticism 
and scholarship, especially when dealing with living figures; namely, the tendency to take 
these artists at their word and praise them, being grateful for the access they have 
provided. Such access comes to the fore in Celli’s interview with Benigni wherein Celli, 
like Pezzetti in her interview, allows Benigni to speak for himself. Celli claims that 
“Benigni is [...] well versed in numerous cinematic, literary and cultural currents” (x). 
During the course of his interviews, Benigni himself eagerly lays claim to a number of 
canonized philosophers and cultural figures as a means of self-justification. Benigni 
asserts, “I would like there always to be a spark of Fellini in my films” (140); but unlike 
Fellini, who perversely pretended to be less intelligent and intellectually aware than he 
actually was, Benigni seems actively to court intellectual acceptance even as he critiques 
intellectualism. What emerges in his discourse is not so much a “well-versed” Benigni as 
a Benigni whose education and cultural knowledge are piecemeal. As such, Benigni 
appears as more of a cinematic bricoleur than a cinematic architect. In light of this view, 
his landmark Life is Beautiful, in retrospect, may be more ideologically confused than 
ideologically complex. Despite Benigni’s best efforts, the door to the pantheon of great 
Italian cinema may still be closed for restoration. In the meantime, Celli’s best efforts 
make this book worthwhile to anyone interested in contemporary Italian cinema. Celli 
may come far from saying the last important word on Benigni and his work, but he does 
say many of the important first ones. 

William Van Watson, University of Arizona 


William Hope. The Films of Giuseppe Tornatore. Leics, UK: Troubador,2001. Pp.39. 
Questo libretto/opuscolo é@ stato stampato in occasione della retrospettiva dei film di 
Giuseppe Tornatore tenutasi presso il “Cornerhouse Arts Centre” di Manchester fra 1’8 ed 
il 18 giugno 2001. II lettore non si lasci impressionare dalle dimensioni di quest’ opera: 
per piccina ch’essa sia, é un concentrato di critica cinematografica di altissimo livello. 
Dopo una breve biografia/filmografia di Tornatore, William Hope inizia la sua 
discussione dei film del cineasta italiano riprendendo la definizione di auteur, per molti 
versi messa da parte da certa critica contemporanea, e riapplicandola al caso di Tornatore 
(che infatti fa, tra l’altro, da regista, sceneggiatore e produttore dei suoi film). Hope 
caratterizza quello di Tornatore come un tipo di cinema che mette in discussione le 
convenzioni del genere, manipolandole in modo sottile ma consistente. Scopo del saggio 
(a nostro avviso ampiamente raggiunto) é di dare un profilo di come il riconosciutissimo 
potere dei film di Tornatore di commuovere il pubblico provenga non solo dalle suddette 
manipolazioni del genere, ma anche da _ tecniche specifiche -— quali la 
sovradeterminazione delle prospettive soggettive dei personaggi e il dar vita al sublime 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 599 


ed al lirico per “confondere i sensi”, cui si aggiunge |’utilizzo di mezzi puramente tecnici 
(ad esempio |’uso esteso del primo piano per attivare una risposta emotiva da parte dello 
spettatore). L’opera di Tornatore viene discussa ed analizzata a partire da // camorrista 
fino ad arrivare a La leggenda del pianista sull’oceano, dedicando a ciascun film un 
capitolo specifico. Grande attenzione viene data all’analisi propriamente cinematografica 
(messa in scena, montaggio, altre tecniche filmiche), cosa che rende questo “opuscolo” 
un must per l’insegnante e lo studioso di cinema italiano. 

Cinzia Di Giulio, Merrimack College 


Giorgio Agamben. The Man without Content. Trans. Georgia Albert. Stanford: 
Stanford UP, 1999. Pp. 130. 
Giorgio Agamben. The End of the Poem. Studies in Poetics. Trans. Daniel Heller- 
Roazen. Stanford: Stanford UP, 1999. Pp. 148. 
L’uomo senza contenuto usci nel 1970 da Rizzoli e fu ripubblicato nel 1994 per 
Quodlibet. Interessa evidenziare la prima data di pubblicazione perché all’epoca 
Agamben aveva solamente 28 anni. Con questo rilievo non vogliamo dire che il libro 
debba essere considerato con un occhio di riguardo perché scritto in giovane eta, ma 
semplicemente contestualizzarlo all’interno di una biografia intellettuale fuori del 
comune, per dare un’idea della quale basti rinviare a “Taking Leave of Tragedy”, 
commosso addio ad Elsa Morante e ultimo degli scritti raccolti nel secondo volume che 
qui recensiamo: nel 1963, quindi a 21 anni, per Agamben erano un’abitudine le cene con 
Morante stessa e Pasolini, Penna, Garboli, Baldini. D’altra parte, il fatto che una 
traduzione avvenga a 29 anni di distanza testimonia a sufficienza del fatto che il libro non 
é invecchiato. Tuttavia, letto alla luce delle cose scritte nei 30 anni successivi, The Man 
without Content assume anche il significato di una promessa mantenuta, poiché 
affrontava temi sui quali Agamben sarebbe tornato negli anni successivi. The Man 
without Content richiede uno sforzo notevole al lettore pit versato nella critica letteraria 
che nella riflessione estetica e soprattutto richiede una qualche dimestichezza con il 
pensiero ed il linguaggio heideggeriano, essendo il filosofo di Sein und Zeit uno dei numi 
tutelari di tutta l’opera di Agamben (un altro é Walter Benjamin, del quale Agamben ha 
diretto per anni |l’edizione italiana delle opere). Il forte heideggerismo pud spesso 
risultare non solo scostante, ma decisamente fastidioso per chi non sia profondamente 
convinto che la ricerca etimologica sui termini del greco antico conduca sicuramente ad 
una migliore comprensione della verita e che la storia del pensiero occidentale sia la 
storia di un continuo fraintendimento e tradimento delle parole pronunciate 2500 anni fa. 
Non si puod pero negare che un’attenta lettura dei greci ed una migliore comprensione dei 
significati originari delle parole conduca ad un arricchimento della nostra conoscenza. 
Che poi questo a volte significhi operare forzature é un altro discorso e stara al lettore 
non farsi irretire da una prosa fascinosa, spesso sentenziosa e talvolta oracolare. Proprio 
come quella di Nietzsche, da una pagina del quale prende avvio la riflessione di 
Agamben. Nella Genealogia della morale si prende la distanza da Kant, il quale 
sosteneva che “that is beautiful which gives us pleasure without interest” (1). La 
polemica non ha un significato solamente per la comprensione dei due filosofi tedeschi, 
ma per |’esperienza estetica in genere. Cid che Nietzsche contesta, infatti, é che di fronte 
all’arte si possa rimanere distaccati, che non si provi il pil’ vivo interesse. 

Nel terzo capitolo, “The Man of Taste and the Dialectic of Spirit’, Agamben 


600 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


introduce la figura dell’uomo di gusto, appunto, che appare nella societa europea nel 
diciassettesimo secolo. E una svolta importante nella vita culturale, poiché prima di allora 
non esisteva una netta distinzione tra buono e cattivo gusto, neppure tra i raffinatissimi 
committenti dei pid grandi pittori rinascimentali (e Agamben non manca di ricordare 
come tali committenti non potessero essere qualificati come disinteressati). Inoltre, per 
l’uomo moderno sara consueto che I’uomo di gusto conviva, all’interno della stessa 
persona, con l’uomo di cattivo gusto: “it seems that intelligence, past a certain limit, 
needs stupidity, so one is tempted to say that, starting from a certain degree of 
refinement, good taste can no longer do without bad taste” (20). Una simile rivoluzione 
non é indagata da Agamben in una chiave sociologica, seppure alcuni spunti qua e la 
emergano, ma in una chiave filosofica, che lo spinge a riflettere sulla genesi dell’arte e 
della poesia, nonché sulla figura dell’artista, il quale “is the man without content, who 
has no other identity than a perpetual emerging out of the nothingness of expression and 
no other ground than this incomprehensible station on this side of himself” (55). 

Un capitolo finale, in parte aggiuntivo rispetto al discorso svolto e concluso nei nove 
capitoli precedenti, ¢ dedicato alla celebre incisione di Albrecht Diirer, Melancolia I, 
della quale viene offerta un’interpretazione complementare rispetto a quella notissima 
elaborata da Panofsky. Stabilendo un parallelo con l’Angelus Novus di Klee, secondo 
quanto ne scrive Benjamin in una delle sue Tesi di filosofia della storia, ed usando un 
linguaggio messianico prossimo a quello di Benjamin stesso, l’angelo che compare 
nell’incisione di Diirer sarebbe I’angelo dell’arte: “the redemption that the angel of art 
offers to the past, summoning it to appear outside its real context on the day of aesthetic 
Last Judgement, is, then, nothing other than its dead (or rather, its inability to die) in the 
museum of aesthetic. And the angel’s melancholy is the consciousness that he has 
adopted alienation as his world; it is the nostalgia of a reality that he can possess only by 
making it unreal” (110). Agamben ritornera sull’incisione di Direr in quello che forse 
rimane il suo capolavoro, Stanze (Torino: Einaudi, 1977), dove dimostrera una migliore 
assimilazione del linguaggio di Benjamin e la profondita dell’indagine si giovera di una 
minore oscurita. 

Al 1978 risale invece lo studio sul titolo della Commedia di Dante, il primo dei saggi 
inclusi in The End of the Poem. II titolo originale del volume, Categorie italiane, ¢ 
spiegato nella prefazione, nella quale si rende conto di una frequentazione fra |’autore, 
Italo Calvino e Claudio Rugafiori, tra il 1974 ed il 1976 a Parigi. Il progetto, poi abortito, 
era quello di una rivista un cui programma si puod leggere in conclusione ad Jnfanzia e 
storia. Distruzione dell’esperienza e origine della storia (Torino: Einaudi, 1978) ed una 
sezione della quale avrebbe dovuto riguardare una serie di coppie concettuali 
dicotomiche che avrebbero dovuto definire la cultura italiana. Per quanto riguarda la 
parte di Calvino, una traccia di questo progetto pud essere scorta nelle Lezioni americane, 
mentre i contributi di Agamben compaiono appunto in questo volume ricchissimo di idee. 
Forse proprio il pili antico tra i saggi, cioé quello di apertura, é quello che piu risente del 
tempo trascorso, dato che nel frattempo sono stati numerosi i contributi sulla questione 
del titolo del poema dantesco e soprattutto sull’autenticita o meno dell’Epistola a 
Cangrande, della quale Agamben sembra dimostrarsi convinto (tra la ricca bibliografia 
sull’argomento varra la pena di ricordare almeno i contributi di Baranski, che nega la 
paternita dantesca, e di Hollander, che |’afferma). Ma, come spesso avviene per gli studi 
del filosofo, la plausibilita su di un piano filologico é secondaria rispetto alla profondita 
delle intuizioni ed alle proposte, che il pit delle volte hanno una portata che oltrepassa 1 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 601 


specifici testi in esame. Per usare le parole stesse dell’autore che commenta l’incipit 
dell’ Epistola, “the turn registered by these words is so little a question internal to Dante 
scholarship that it can even be said that here, for the first time, we find one of the traits 
that most tenaciously characterizes Italian culture: its essential pertinence to the comic 
sphere and consequent refutation of tragedy” (1). Comica sarebbe la concezione 
dell’uomo caratterizzato da una natura innocente e da una colpevolezza della persona, 
contrariamente alla tragicita dell’amore trobadorico e stilnovistico che in un primo tempo 
Dante aveva sposato. Proprio la poesia e l’esperienza del linguaggio dei trovatori e degli 
stilnovisti ritorna continuamente nei capitoli di The End of the Poem, in particolare nel 
secondo, che é specificatamente dedicato ad un termine di un componimento di Arnaut 
Daniel, cioé corn. Agamben riporta dapprima le diverse interpretazioni fino ad oggi 
succedutesi, tutte ruotanti intorno a quale particolare zona erogena il poeta indicasse. 
L’ipotesi del nostro, disinteressato rispetto al senso letterale, ¢ che invece vada chiamato 
in causa un termine della tecnica poetica dei Minnesdnger, cioé Korn, che indica “an 
unaccompanied verse that is at the center of a strophe, yet rhymes with the corresponding 
member of the following strophes” (26). II sirventese del ““miglior fabbro” implicherebbe 
una metaforizzazione del corpo della donna in corpo della poesia e, tramite Dante, 
conduce Agamben ad una riflessione globale sul significato della rima e della poesia, la 
quale non sarebbe caratterizzata dall’adesione perfetta di suono e senso, quanto dal loro 
discordo, che pero s’incontra nel “poetry’s crossing with thought, the thinking essence of 
poetry and the poeticizing essence of thought” (41). 

A quello sconcertante libro che é |’ Hypnerotomachia Poliphili di Francesco Colonna 
é dedicato il terzo capitolo, che svolge il tema dell’opposizione tra lingua viva e lingua 
morta. Lo studio si giova delle fondamentali indagini di Pozzi e Dionisotti e percid situa 
opera sullo sfondo delle discussioni dell’epoca sulla lingua morta, al momento della 
pubblicazione dell’opera (1499) non ancora cosi centrali, come avverra non troppi anni 
dopo con le Prose della volgar lingua di Bembo. Non bisogna quindi tenere conto 
solamente dell’opposizione tra lingua viva e lingua morta per comprendere |’opera di 
Colonna, ma anche di quella dantesca tra lingua volgare e lingua grammatica. (A questo 
proposito segnaliamo un’imprecisione: a p. 54, le Regole del Fortunio sono indicate come 
la prima grammatica italiana, ma in realta bisognerebbe ricordare la piecedente 
Grammatichetta dell’Alberti.) Per tornare al discorso principale, usiamo invece 
nuovamente le parole dell’autore, per il quale “the crisis of language that took place 
between the fifteenth and the sixteenth centuries was therefore not simply the contrast 
between a dead (or half living) language and a living language that naturally succeeds it. 
(As the more lucid thinkers immediately realized, even the fourteenth-century vernacular 
proposed by Bembo was, after all, a dead language, a language that, in Bernardo 
Davanzati’s words, ‘one does not speak, but learns like dead languages through the works 
of three Florentine writers.’) Rather, the fifteenth- and sixteenth-century crisis of 
language marks the definitive decline of the experience from which Romance lyric poetry 
emerged, as well as a radical change in the nature of bilingualism” (55). In questa 
congiuntura storica, la lingua amata da Polifilo (Polia, cioé “la vecchia”, sarebbe infatti 
una figura del latino) é un’inattingibile lingua del sogno, che non é né il latino, né il 
volgare, né una lingua morta, né una lingua viva. “Pascoli and the Thought of the Voice” 
sviluppa la riflessione sulla lingua morta, e questa volta, al di 1a del fatto che Pascoli 
abbia composto anche in latino, si pud essere sicuri che non vi siano forzature 
nell’interpretazione di un poeta che dichiarava egli stesso che si compone sempre in una 


602 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


lingua morta, intuizione fondamentale anche per molti autori pienamente novecenteschi. 
Splendide, all’interno dello stesso saggio, le pagine dedicate alla voce (0 “Voce” con 
l’iniziale maiuscola, come viene scritto in un altro libro di Agamben, // linguaggio e la 
morte, Torino: Einaudi, 1982, non a caso lo stesso anno del saggio su Pascoli), cid che “‘it 
is no longer mere sound, but not yet a signification” (64), come viene esemplificato su 
una pagina di sant’Agostino. E, per quanto riguarda le onomatopee pascoliane, la 
possibilita di tradurle in parola scritta é interpretata alla luce di un passo del grammatico 
stoico Dionisio Trace, nel quale l’aggettivo “grammaticale” si presenta in un’accezione 
inconsueta che ci permette di gettare una nuova luce sull’operato di Pascoli. 

Il capitolo seguente, dedicato a Delfini, chiama nuovamente in causa il Dante della 
Vita nuova per presentare il caso di uno scrittore che scrive una nota autobiografica 
classificabile come una vera e propria razo medievale, un testo nel quale il vissuto si 
confonde inestricabilmente con il poetato. “Expropriated manner” é invece un testo 
fondamentale per la comprensione di Caproni. Del legame tra il poeta ed il filosofo non é 
qui il caso di scrivere, essendo argomento gia affrontato da molti studiosi, compreso 
l’estensore di queste righe, mentre in questa sede ci limitiamo a ricordare alcune delle pit 
importanti acquisizioni di queste pagine originariamente scritte come prefazione alla 
raccolta postuma Res amissa (1991). Dopo la pubblicazione di questo saggio é diventato 
comune caratterizzare la scrittura di Caproni in termini di “stile” e di “maniera”; la sua 
ricerca teologica o ateologica é stata inserita in un filone poetico che parte da Hélderlin e 
che trova in Caproni non un semplice epigono, ma forse il maggiore rappresentante 
italiano del Novecento; il bellissimo e sorprendente Seme del piangere, che racconta di 
un amore per la madre, ragazza e non ancora sposata, é letto non come una storia edipica, 
ma come una straordinaria invenzione poetica, che solo per un attimo é minacciata 
dall’oscurita incestuosa. E facile immaginare come quest’ultima interpretazione non 
abbia trovato tutti d’accordo. Ad Elsa Morante e ad una sua glossa all’Etica di Spinoza é 
dedicato |’intervento successivo, mentre il saggio eponimo della raccolta occupa |’ottavo 
capitolo. L’argomento é appunto quello della conclusione del poema e chi conosca 
opera di Agamben nel suo complesso non fatichera a ritrovare non solo le posizioni 
assunte in “Corn”, che cronologicamente dovrebbe essere grosso modo coevo (inoltre 
entrambi i saggi sono stati composti in occasione di celebrazioni per Roger Dragonetti), 
ma anche in [dea della prosa (Milano: Feltrinelli, 1985), dove Agamben sposa I’idea, qui 
riaffermata, che la possibilita dell’enjambement sia |’unico criterio valido per distinguere 
la poesia dalla prosa. Se perd si accetta questa teoria, il verso estremo di una poesia 
acquista uno statuto anomalo, perché non contempla la possibilita di enjambement e 
rischia di scivolare nella prosa. L’interrogativo, non peregrino, non sembra pero trovare 
una risposta adeguata: un indizio é offerto ad Agamben dalla canzone di Dante Cosi nel 
mio parlar voglio esser aspro, il cui primo verso della tornata “ends with an absolutely 
unrelated rhyme, which coincides (and certainly not by chance) with the word that names 
the supreme poetic intention: donna, ‘lady.’ This unrelated rhyme, which seems to 
anticipate a point of coincidence between sound and sense, is followed by four verses, 
linked in couplets according to the rhyme that Italian metrical tradition calls baciata 
(‘kissed’)” (114-15). La testimonianza ¢ importante, ma non sufficiente a ricavare una 
legge, perché si limita a mostrare una delle possibilita di concludere la poesia. Quanto 
all’interpretazione, la considerazione delle teorie formaliste russe sulla funzione 
strutturante delle serie omofoniche avrebbe forse permesso di dire qualcosa di pit rispetto 
a cid che viene intuito, ma poi volto in toni misticheggianti: “it is as if the verse at the end 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 603 


of the poem, which was now to be irreparably ruined in sense, linked itself closely to its 
rhyme fellow and, laced in this way, chose to dwell with it in silence” (115). 

Concludono il volume quattro scritti pil brevi: lo scioglimento di un misterioso 
passo di Delfini che risulta scritto in basco, una riflessione su Caproni scritta in occasione 
della morte del poeta, una presentazione delle poesie di De Signoribus, forse attualmente 
il maggior poeta italiano, ed il gia citatu ricordo di Elsa Morante. 

Alessandro Montani, Universita di Genova 


Italian Grotesque Theater. Trans. and Introd. Michael Vena. Madison, NJ: Farleigh 
Dickinson UP, 2001. Pp. 194. 

Italian Grotesque Theater si propone di presentare a un pubblico di lingua inglese le 
tematiche e i capolavori del teatro grottesco. Nell’introduzione, Michael Vena spiega che 
a seguito dei recenti volumi pubblicati da Giancarlo Sammartano presso Bulzoni, il teatro 
grottesco sembra essere tornato al centro dell’interesse della critica teatrale italiana. Oltre 
a cid, la sua popolarita nei primi decenni del ventesimo secolo e la sua influenza sulla 
produzione di autori quali Pirandello confermano la necessita di far conoscere e rivalutare 
questo movimento teatrale anche al di fuori dell’ Italia. 

Vena ha scelto e tradotto i tre testi considerati fondamentali per lo sviluppo del 
grottesco: La maschera e il volto di Luigi Chiarelli, che con la sua prima 
rappresentazione nel 1916 ha dato il via al movimento; L’uomo che incontro se stesso di 
Luigi Antonelli, del 1918; e L’uccello del Paradiso, del 1919, di Enrico Cavacchioli. 
Nell’introduzione, Vena fornisce un riassunto e breve commento critico dei tre drammi, 
accompagnandoli con una nota biografica degli autori e una lista delle loro altre opere 
principali. La parte introduttiva del libro si conclude con una bibliografia di testi primari 
e secondari sul teatro grottesco. 

Vena definisce il grottesco come “a genre of theater wherein the passions and 
tragedies of life are mechanically simplified and shockingly distorted” (18), ma sottolinea 
immediatamente come i tre autori abbiano interpretato in modo diverso questa distorsione 
della realta. Chiarelli riutilizza la scenografia del teatro borghese e lo schema del 
triangolo adulterino per denunciare il dramma dell’individuo soffocato dalle convenzioni 
sociali (17). Antonelli, al contrario, pone la scena della sua opera “in un’isola al di fuori 
della geografia” (Luigi Antonelli, L’uomo che incontré se stesso e altri drammi 
rappresentati, Roma: Bulzoni, 1994, 8) per dimostrare la disintegrazione della 
personalita dell’essere umano (29). Il triangolo adulterino, in questo caso, viene 
complicato in modo grottesco dal fatto che Il’uomo con cui la protagonista tradisce il 
marito é il marito stesso di vent’anni dopo. Cavacchioli, infine, rende esplicita la sua 
critica della societa e della creazione teatrale mettendo in scena il personaggio di Lui, una 
figura al di fuori e al di sopra degli eventi — anche in questo caso, vari triangoli amorosi 
— che manipola i sentimenti e le azioni dei vari personaggi come se questi fossero 
marionette (37). In questo dramma, sostiene Vena, Cavacchioli affronta le stesse 
tematiche che Pirandello aveva annunciato nel saggio Sull’umorismo e che avrebbe 
elaborato nelle sue opere di riflessione metateatrale (38). 

La maggior parte di questo volume é costituita dalle traduzioni dei testi, che sono 
molto legate al testo originale, e non adattamenti per la scena. In The Mask and the Face, 
per esempio, Vena si discosta dall’ italiano (mi riferisco al testo pubblicato nell’antologia 
Teatro del Novecento, a cura di Eligio Possenti, Milano: Nuova Accademia Editrice, 


604 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


1962) solo in pochissime occasioni: per esempio, in alcune indicazioni di scena (un 
generico “mobile” [351] diventa nella traduzione uno specifico “piano” [93]; “ha I’aria 
contrariata” [333] é tradotto come “he has an urge to laugh” [81]; “con voce bassa e 
commossa” [359] diventa “shouting as though he were hallucinating” [98]). Mi chiedo se 
la discrepanza fra |’italiano e la traduzione inglese derivi da una diversa edizione del testo 
originale, o dall’influenza della versione in videocassetta prodotta dalla RAI, in cui, 
appunto, i personaggi si appoggiano a un pianoforte, cercano di nascondere una risata 
fuori posto, o gridano come se in preda a un’allucinazione. 

In alcuni casi ci sono stati tagli di un paio di battute, senza molta importanza per lo 
svolgimento del dialogo. Solo la traduzione di un passaggio in particolare ha attirato la 
mia attenzione: nel testo originale il personaggio di Piero, caratterizzato come un 
dongiovanni volubile, superficiale e misogino, afferma che “Soltanto se un uomo é molto 
stupido riesce a farsi perdonare dalle donne la sua enorme superiorita su di loro” (289). 
Vena traduce questo commento, volto ovviamente a sottolineare l’opinione di Piero 
sull’infinita inferiorita del sesso femminile, come: “Only if a man is very stupid does he 
manage to be forgiven by women for his feelings of enormous superiority over them” 
(52). Vena avra voluto risparmiare i sentimenti delle donne, facendo si che la superiorita 
maschile apparisse non nella “realta”, ma solo nei sentimenti di un uomo — oltretutto 
molto stupido? 

A parte questi piccolissimi dettagli — e la traduzione di testi letterari e drammatici 
rimane in ogni caso un campo di discussione infinito — questo libro di Michael Vena, 
offrendo in inglese una riflessione critica e dei testi precedentemente disponibili solo in 
italiano, permette di poter far conoscere e apprezzare anche a un pubblico pit vasto 
l’influsso del grottesco sul teatro del Novecento. 

Daniela Cavallaro, University of Auckland 


Daniela Bisello Antonucci. Nino Palumbo e l’evoluzione narrativa. Metauro: 
Fossombrone, 2001. Pp. 169. 

In Nino Palumbo e l'evoluzione narrativa Daniela Bisello Antonucci ci da una prova 
della sua sensibilita nei confronti di un autore del Novecento la cui opera, sconosciuta ai 
piu, € purtuttavia degna di studio e investigazione. La veloce introduzione indica il 
percorso analitico intrapreso con l’obiettivo di evidenziare da un lato le tematiche care a 
Palumbo e dall’altro di esaminare come esse abbiano attraversato, evolvendosi e 
trasformandosi, tutta |’opera dell’autore, opera che si inserisce storicamente nel periodo 
che va dal dopoguerra agli inizi degli anni Ottanta e che la studiosa si propone di 
antologizzare cronologicamente. Daniela Bisello Antonucci sottolinea come i 
protagonisti dei romanzi e racconti palumbiani siano il prodotto di una realta sociale, 
economica e culturale in profonda trasformazione nella quale ogni individuo, nella 
fattispecie l’uomo comune, lotta e soffre a causa di un sistema che sente estraneo, in un 
confronto serrato che lo pone di volta in volta di fronte a se stesso, alle proprie 
limitazioni e al male di vivere che da esse deriva. In uno stile realistico e, specialmente 
nelle prime opere, con un timbro di addolorata partecipazione, lo scrittore si avvicina ad 
ogni personaggio dandone lo spaccato interiore, rappresentandone le vicende, molto 
spesso drammatiche, che producono in lui o lo spingono alla solitudine, all’alienazione e 
all’infelicita. Afferma infatti la studiosa che l’intera cifra scrittoria palumbiana é 
caratterizzata, nelle sue diverse sfumature cromatiche, dall’intento di delineare il destino 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 605 


dell’uomo come esperienza del dolore e della sofferenza in una societa industriale e 
progredita che si fa via via pili alienante e povera di valori. 

Alla breve introduzione segue un capitolo, “La narrativa palumbiana,” nel quale 
vengono esplicitati e spiegati, con l’ausilio del primo racconto dell’autore, i suoi modelli 
narrativi, stilistici e formali, formule e strategie nate dalla meditazione sull’esperienza del 
vivere quotidiano ed elaborati formalmente anche attraverso la corrispondenza ed il 
confronto ideologico con Elio Vittorini. E illuminata in queste pagine la raison d’étre dei 
protagonisti palumbiani attraverso i quali l’autore ha voluto rendere la sua personale 
esplorazione dell’uomo novecentesco. Ecco allora che essi sono |’emblematizzazione di 
un individuo ormai consapevole della maschera che la realta sociale gli vuole imporre e 
che tenta di resistere, fin quando é possibile, alle pressioni a cui viene sottoposto. In 
questo inarrestabile scavo Palumbo si avvale di quella rappresentazione psicologico- 
meditativa e di quelle riflessioni che tanto furono criticate da Vittorini, per il quale questo 
procedimento, che produceva una forte immedesimazione con il vissuto dei personaggi, 
diventava un limite narratologico, un ostacolo alla rappresentazione del dibattito di idee 
proprio di quegli anni. La forza di Palumbo, al di 1a di questi limiti, rimane comunque, 
per la Bisello Antonucci, nel desiderio dello scrittore di sviscerare, attraverso i suoi 
racconti e romanzi, i vari aspetti della crisi dell’uomo contemporaneo, mantenendo un 
contatto diretto con la realta attraverso l’invenzione di un linguaggio colorito ma basso, 
quasi umile, ma consono alla drammatizzazione dei personaggi e delle loro vicende. 

L’analisi dei romanzi palumbiani si snoda dal terzo all’ottavo capitolo, nei quali la 
studiosa esamina, in modo puntuale e con buoni spunti interpretativi, i personaggi e le 
storie attraverso le quali l’autore ha voluto raccontare e rappresentare, di volta in volta, le 
problematiche condizioni esistenziali e umane dell’immediato dopoguerra: é@ in 
particolare nei primi romanzi e racconti che Palumbo si sofferma a descrivere e ad 
analizzare con partecipazione ed empatia le sofferenze di quella piccola umanita in cui 
prevalevano ancora, effetto di una instabile situazione economica, il disadattamento 
sociale, |’emarginazione, |’esclusione. Della prima narrativa palumbiana la studiosa mette 
abilmente in evidenza anche la funzione metaforica, di cui l’autore si é servito per 
adombrare il conflitto, vissuto in modo profondo, tra l’aspirazione alla scrittura e la 
difficile realta quotidiana, nella quale poco spazio viene lasciato alla vocazione e 
all’espressione artistica. Dei romanzi di questo periodo la Bisello Antonucci sottolinea il 
solido impegno dimostrato da Palumbo nei confronti dell’invenzione linguistica non solo 
rispetto ai personaggi ma soprattutto all’ambiente in cui si muovono, una attenzione e una 
sensibilita che informano |’ intero percorso scrittorio palumbiano e che rimangono forse il 
suo contributo pit suggestivo. 

Dalla rappresentazione della emarginazione economica e socio-culturale Palumbo si 
allontana con i tre romanzi pubblicati tra gli anni Sessanta e Settanta: Le giornate lunghe, 
Domanda marginale e Il serpente malioso. Fa notare la Bisello Antonucci che Palumbo, 
sempre attento alle istanze poetiche e filosofiche del suo tempo, adotta, con buoni 
risultati formali ed espressivi, i modelli narrativi proposti in quegli anni dalle avanguardie 
letterarie. La novita per quanto riguarda la sua scrittura é da rilevare nel distacco affettivo 
dell’autore nei confronti dei propri personaggi, e nella modificazione del personaggio 
stesso, non pil rappresentativo di un ceto la cui emergenza sociale ¢ problematica, ma 
paradigmatico di quel ceto borghese medio, intellettualmente e culturalmente integrato, 
entrato in crisi durante gli anni della grande crescita industriale italiana. Ecco allora che 
Palumbo, autore profondamente legato alla realta del mondo in cui vive, rappresenta un 


606 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


individuo umanamente isolato, alienato, assente fino alla perdita dell’identita. Anche la 
narrazione, elaborata secondo i parametri formali e stilistici invocati dai fondatori del 
Gruppo ’63, si disgrega, si propone in forme disorganiche, appunto confacentesi alla 
disintegrazione della realta umana sentita e sperimentata dallo scrittore. 

Il nono capitolo traccia la parabola palumbiana dei racconti, il cui nucleo ispiratore 
viene individuato dalla studiosa in parte nei romanzi, anche se diverso é comunque il 
ritmo incalzante, dominato dall’azione e da un linguaggio che si fa veloce e ironico, 
colorato dalle immagini tratte da una realta quotidiana minore. Per alcuni racconti viene 
sottolineato l’utilizzo del monologo interiore che permette all’autore di penetrare nel 
personaggio e di rappresentarne la solitudine, la mancanza di affetti, l’infelicita. Per la 
Bisello Antonucci, nella scrittura del romanzo come in quella del racconto, Palumbo non 
si distacca mai dalla emblematizzazione della malaise interiore ed esistenziale che aveva 
caratterizzato |’individuo e la societa nell’immediato dopoguerra prima e negli anni de! 
benessere poi. 

Dopo un interessante capitoletto dedicato alla critica letteraria palumbiana la 
studiosa raccoglie infine, nelle conclusioni, i punti salienti della sua investigazione, 
rinvenendo nella cifra scrittoria di Palumbo quella matrice principalmente etica che ha 
portato lo scrittore a farsi interprete di una umanita sofferente e alienata perché incapace 
di agire contro i propri principi 0, come emerge negli ultimi romanzi, perché divenuta 
vuota cassa di risonanza di una societa ormai priva di valori. Un mondo di personaggi che 
lo scrittore riporta con realismo attraverso |’adozione di un linguaggio originale, aderente 
al parlato della quotidianita ma anche espressione del profondo dramma umano. E 
tuttavia proprio questa immediata aderenza al reale il limite della cifra scrittoria di 
Palumbo, scrittore che rimane fedele, secondo la Bisello Antonucci, alla sua natura di 
attento osservatore del disagio esistenziale dell’uomo contemporaneo. 

Il volume della Bisello Antonucci @ uno studio interessante e composito: 
investigazione che raggiunge il suo obiettivo, che é quello di stimolare il lettore alla 
ricerca e all’approfondimento della parola palumbiana, parola che illumina, con rigore e 
coerenza, molti dei risvolti pit tristi e dolenti della realta umana ed esistenziale del nostro 
tempo. 

Simona Wright, The College of New Jersey 


Umberto Mariani. La creazione del vero. Il maggior teatro di Pirandello. Fiesole: 
Cadmo, 2001. Pp. 191. 
La profonda comprensione della cifra poetica pirandelliana, maturata dall’approfondito 
studio dell’opera teatrale, saggistica e soprattutto da una costante investigazione del 
pensiero filosofico del drammaturgo, hanno reso possibile questo eccellente lavoro di 
Umberto Mariani, nel quale si propongono al lettore, in una analisi che ben pud definirsi 
la summa di un lungo itinerario ermeneutico, le tematiche e i canoni formali fondanti il 
maggior teatro di Pirandello. L’introduzione rivela il principale intento dello studioso, 
che intende sviluppare un percorso critico plurimo, teso non solo a rendere comprensibile 
il testo drammatico in esame ma anche ad alleggerirlo del peso di letture e adattamenti 
che ne hanno ripetutamente sconvolto il senso e il significato. 

Il volume é@ suddiviso in otto capitoli, dei quali il primo, dedicato al personaggio 
“pirandelliano”, e Vultimo, incentrato sull’enorme impatto prodotto dal pensiero 
filosofico e poetico del siciliano sugli scrittori novecenteschi, fungono da cornice ai sei 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 607 


centrali. In questi ultimi vengono esaminati i maggiori drammi, nei quali lo studioso ha 
saputo mettere in rilievo una evoluzione avvenuta sia al livello delle tematiche che a 
quello delle strutture normative e degli schemi drammatici. 

Indispensabile preambolo risulta il primo capitolo, “I! personaggio pirandelliano”, 
nel quale viene esplicitata la composizione etica e filosofica dell’invenzione drammatica 
nonché la sua matrice umana. Ecco allora che lo studioso coglie, nel personaggio 
“pirandelliano”, il sofferto passaggio da una ideologia positivista di stampo ottocentesco 
al novecentesco vacillare in una condizione esistenziale molteplice, instabile e tutta in 
divenire. Dalla consapevolezza della crisi dei vecchi valori sorge impetuoso |’anelito a 
valori umani nuovi, e, artisticamente, ad una forma che si adatti con maggiore flessibilita 
ad una realta esperita nella pluralita di una visione soggettiva. 

Il secondo capitolo, “Liold o del non verismo”, inaugura |’analisi testuale che vede 
un personaggio pirandelliano, contrariamente a quello verista, consapevole dell’assurdita 
del reale e appunto per questo capace di evitare le trappole tese dall’ingranaggio sociale; 
con la sua sagacia e il suo machiavellismo infatti, Liola non solo si beffa dell’ipocrisia 
delle norme vigenti ma se ne serve per portare in porto i propri piani. Ecco allora che la 
finzione e le pratiche eminentemente relativistiche di un sistema solo in apparenza 
assolutistico vengono utilizzate con coerenza proprio per denunciarlo e sconfiggerlo. 

In “Cosi é se vi pare o la realta delle apparenze”, viene affrontato da Pirandello il 
conflitto tra la verita oggettiva, fondamentale assioma positivista, e la verita, tutta 
novecentesca e relativistica, propria del soggetto: conflitto sviscerato nel dramma 
attraverso lo scontro tra due opposte fazioni, i personaggi pirandelliani, “inquisiti”, e i 
difensori, loro antagonisti, delle teorie assolutistiche. La verita, perseguita con tenacia dai 
sostenitori di quest’ultimo gruppo, si rivela di impossibile raggiungimento, eppure la sua 
ricerca mantiene teso e nervoso il ritmo del dramma fino al dénouement finale. 
Significativa risulta per lo studioso la presenza nel testo di una figura infrequente in 
Pirandello, quella del raisonneur, la cui funzione principale é quella di considerare le 
verita addotte dai personaggi, verita soggettive eppure “verosimili”, che destabilizzano, 
mettendola perpetuamente in dubbio, la possibilita di una verita assoluta. 

Adombrato in questo dramma é il tema della incomunicabilita del soggetto rispetto 
alla sua verita soggettiva, questione che viene affrontata ampiamente nell’opera 
successiva, cui ¢ dedicato il quarto capitolo, “Sei personaggi in cerca d’autore: o del 
bisogno e della difficolta dell’?umana comunicazione”. Rivoluzionario rispetto al 
tradizionale paradigma tematico e strutturale inaugurato dal teatro borghese, i Sei 
personaggi drammatizza |’inganno della comprensione reciproca, il conflitto prodotto 
dalla molteplice personalita di ogni individuo, ma soprattutto la difficolta di rappresentare 
la vita, che fluisce, in una forma artistica che invece la raggela in modo immutabile. 

Nel quinto capitolo, “Enrico IV: o della logica potente e profonda”, lo studioso 
propone la figura del protagonista, uomo comune ma sensibile e per questo isolato, 
escluso, come quintessenziale nel panorama drammaturgico pirandelliano. Dal suo 
scontro con la societa borghese si producono una serie di attualissime problematiche: la 
consapevolezza mascherata e scambiata per pazzia, la prigione delle imposizioni sociali, 
la scelta della finzione come unica via d’uscita e salvezza. Il mascheramento, sottolinea 
Mariani, diviene per Pirandello il simbolo della tragedia dell’uomo moderno, tragedia che 
la figura di Enrico emblematizza in modo esemplare. 

Nel sesto capitolo, “Ciascuno a suo modo: o l’instabilita della vita e le vie sicure 
dell’arte”, si vede ruotare |’azione drammatica intorno alla instabile percezione del reale 


608 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


che si materializza nella scoperta dolorosa di una realta soggettiva plurale. II conflitto, 
che nei testi precedenti aveva destabilizzato |’attendibilita di una verita assoluta, si 
trasforma ora nel dramma delle apparenze, espresso dalla condizione contraddittoria, 
vissuta dai personaggi, del credersi uno e dello scoprirsi, dolorosamente, molteplici. Le 
tematiche che lo studioso vede scaturire dal nucleo fondatore sono allora la fluttuazione 
delle opinioni individuali, l’instabilita della visione di ogni personaggio e infine, 
nell’ultimo intermezzo corale, la capacita dell’arte di rappresentare la realta, di 
semantizzarla, rivelandone le nascoste verita, in una forma artistica definitiva. In questo 
dramma, afferma lo studioso, Pirandello é riuscito ad abolire il limite tra arte e vitae a 
portare in scena la problematica che informera il palinsesto ideologico del suo ultimo 
capolavoro. 

De “J giganti della montagna: o delle finalita contraddittorie della vocazione 
poetica”, tratta quindi il settimo capitolo, nel quale lo studioso conclude la sua analisi 
testuale partendo da Questa sera si recita a soggetto e, passando attraverso una puntuale 
disamina filosofico-poetica dei grandi “miti”, giunge infine al magistrale testo 
incompiuto. In esso Pirandello approda felicemente a quelle soluzioni ideologiche e 
formali che gli erano sfuggite nella stesura dei “miti”, dei quali tuttavia é messa in rilievo 
l’esigenza di un rinnovamento spirituale e il bisogno, profondamente sentito, di assoluto. 
L’ultimo dramma sviluppa alcune delle problematiche presenti in nuce nelle opere 
precedenti e ne propone di nuove: in primo luogo lo scontro tra due modi di concepire la 
realta e quindi due modi di porsi di fronte all’opera poetica, di intenderne |’essenza e le 
finalita. Mariani riconosce nel personaggio di Cotrone, e nel suo tentativo di lusingare la 
famosa attrice Ilse Paulsen, |’°emblematizzazione di un’arte che ha perduto la sua 
dimensione umana ed é divenuta esperienza irrazionale, gioco solipsistico, mentre, per 
Pirandello, “l’arte vive per essere comunicata e deve essere comunicata per vivere”. Non 
ci deve stupire quindi la posizione dello studioso, il quale, mentre ricorda come nel finale 
del dramma questo genere di forma artistica venga condannato a perire, sostenga che 
proprio a quest’arte, e non all’allucinazione di Cotrone, Pirandello aveva voluto aderire, 
fino al suo ultimo dramma. Se il finale dénouement sembra creare una divergenza tra 
ideologia testuale e pensiero autorale essa si rivela solo apparente e viene 
immediatamente colmata dallo studioso che richiama alla coerenza della creazione 
pirandelliana rispetto al suo pensiero: ogni suo personaggio resiste infatti con tutte le sue 
forze all’irrazionalita e non rinuncia mai “anche davanti alla evidenza della impossibilita 
della comunicazione, [a] proclamarne la necessita come una verita innegabile” (131). 

Nell’ottavo e conclusivo capitolo, “Pirandello e la cultura di tutto un secolo”, 
Mariani propone una sintesi delle ragioni che hanno spinto intere generazioni di scrittori 
a confrontarsi con la filosofia e la poetica dell’autore siciliano. Sono la grande sensibilita 
di Pirandello nei confronti della storia, la sua familiarita con i concetti che hanno 
informato la filosofia del primo Novecento, oltre che la sua geniale rivoluzione teatrale, 
che lo portd a utilizzare quegli stessi stilemi del teatro borghese che avrebbe poi saputo 
far implodere, a renderlo non solo un autore imprescindibile ma soprattutto il pid grande 
scrittore del Novecento. Ed é la ricchezza e problematicita delle tematiche umane che 
Pirandello ha voluto rappresentare sul palcoscenico cid che rimane oggi pit vivo ed 
attuale: messaggio di significato universale che supera di gran lunga tutte le 
sperimentazioni formali che il suo teatro ha fatto e fa ancora germinare. 

Scaturito da una riflessione appassionata e puntuale sulla materia pirandelliana, 
questo volume é testimonianza della grande sensibilita critica, intellettuale e filosofica di 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 609 


Umberto Mariani. Lo studio si distingue per l’equilibrio dell’analisi, per la complessita 
dell’investigazione e per la profondita dello sguardo critico: un’opera fondamentale per 
chi voglia comprendere |’evoluzione del pensiero filosofico pirandelliano nel momento in 
cui esso si fa forma artistica e diviene distillata rappresentazione delle grandi 
interrogazioni dell’uomo novecentesco. 

Simona Wright, The College of New Jersey 


Anna Banti. “La Signorina” e altri racconti. Ed. Carol Lazzaro-Weis. New York: 
The Modern Language Association, 2001. 

Anna Banti. “The Signorina” and Other Stories. Ed. Carol Lazzaro-Weis. Trans. 
Martha King and Carol Lazzaro-Weis. New York: The Modern Language 
Association, 2001. 

The Modern Language Association has undertaken a much needed editorial project, the 
publication of short fictional works from non-English literatures in two parallel editions, 
one in the original language and the other in a carefully done English translation. 
Students and professors will surely welcome these volumes because, in addition to 
making available interesting writings not easily found elsewhere, they are published in 
paperback and, therefore, are inexpensive, and they are attractively printed and bound. 
The MLA seal guarantees the quality of selections and translations. This initiative is 
particularly important for literatures such as the Italian that have less frequent access to 
the American publishing market. 

Anna Banti is a major Italian author whose life spanned the greater part of the 
twentieth century. She is known to most American readers only for her novel Artemisia, 
whose translation is available from the University of Nebraska Press. But she was a more 
productive writer than that, having authored eight novels and half a dozen collections of 
short stories, in addition to scholarly works in the field of the history of art, and several 
translations of French and British authors. 

The selection of short stories proposed by the MLA editions is representative of 
Banti’s output. Selections are by definition personal, and one may regret the non- 
inclusion of one of Banti’s best know texts, “Lavinia fuggita” (“Lavinia Is Gone”). But 
the editor rightly decided to select samples from various moments of the writer’s career. 
All the major themes and favorite settings of Banti’s fiction are represented here: 
women’s difficult life choices, the struggle to follow one’s aspirations, the ambivalence 
of ambition, and the stifling environment of provincial life. 

In the first short story, “Vocazioni indistinte” (“Uncertain Vocations”), a young 
woman hesitates between several life paths. Lacking the courage and determination to 
pursue a musical career, she ends up by getting mired in domestic work and catering to a 
demanding and indifferent family. “Le donne muoiono” (“The Women Are Dying”) is 
one of Banti’s most famous pieces. It looks into a future year, 2617, when men discover 
that they have the power to remember their past lives and therefore have access to a form 
of immortality. The women, however, remain bound to the present, since they are 
inexplicably deprived of all memory of their own past. The consequences the writer 
draws from such a premise are intriguing: they confirm Banti’s devotion to art, her 
awareness of how exacting its practice is for human beings, and her conviction that art 
holds a fundamental place in the lives of those who are mortal. 

Banti often evokes in her fiction moments and figures drawn from the past, 


610 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


particularly from the fertile and complex history of the high Middle Ages. “Joveta di 
Betania” (“Joveta of Betania”) is such a story, in which unconventional and powerful 
women must struggle to find a satisfying place within a society that wants them docile 
and excluded from public life. 

“T velieri” (“Sailing Ships”) follows the dreamy life of a little boy caught in a story 
of kidnapping and isolation, which he does not understand. The last short story, “La 
Signorina” (“The Signorina”’), is quintessentially Bantian. Mining a_ clearly 
autobiographical vein, the author explores the conflict between a woman’s total 
dedication to a beloved man and her efforts to escape that stifling relationship by turning 
to her passion for writing. As in her last longer work, Un grido lacerante (A Piercing 
Cry), this brief piece conveys Banti’s dark views on women’s tormented relationship to 
life and art and makes evident the existence of a subtext filled with suppressed anger. 

The introduction by Carol Lazzaro-Weis, who is a well-known scholar in the field of 
twentieth-century Italian women’s writing, is very thorough and clearly written. It 
provides just the right amount of data, suggestions, and critical evaluations to stimulate 
the reader, avoiding excessive quantities of information and technical jargon. Therefore, 
it promises to be equally useful to scholarly readers and to students. The same 
thoroughness and simplicity is evident in the bibliography, which lists primary and 
secondary sources. The translation is excellent: it remains faithful to the original, yet 
resolves gracefully its challenges. 

In short, these two slim volumes are very valuable tools for the reader who may 
want to approach Anna Banti’s work in one or both languages, Italian and English. It is 
all the more disappointing to have to remark on the unexpected frequency of 
typographical errors in the Italian edition, especially in the last three short stories of the 
collection. Such lack of precision is surprising in the spelling of a language, such as 
Italian, that is free of the intricacies one finds in French or English. 

Angela M. Jeannet, Franklin and Marshall College 


La materia dell’anima, a cura di Letizia Comba, Torino: Rosenberg & Sellier, 2001. 
Ricordo di aver letto alcuni anni fa l’articolo di una studiosa che lamentava di sentirsi 
completamente divorziata dal proprio lavoro; che mestamente ammetteva quanto scrivere 
le fosse diventato oneroso e, da ultimo, di come si fosse creata una profonda frattura tra 
sé e la sua attivita. L’articolo non faceva intuire un disagio personale di carattere 
psichico, né qualche trauma contingente che avesse potuto scatenare quella diffusa 
malinconia; lasciava semmai intravedere un profondo e irrisolto interrogativo — 
sicuramente condiviso da molti/e — sul senso e l’utilita del proprio lavoro e sulle 
modalita di coinvolgimento di chi non voleva identificarsi solo con la propria razionalita 
ed erudizione. Dallo scritto traspariva il desiderio di mettere qualcosa di pili di se stessi, 
della propria emotivita e sensibilita nel lavoro e di conferirgli uno spessore che, in 
qualche modo, rendesse atto del vissuto individuale. 

La materia dell’anima avrebbe sicuramente esaudito le aspettative di quella 
studiosa. I] testo raccoglie sei articoli che rivelano una profonda relazione di carattere sia 
intellettuale che emotivo con altrettanti testi, autori o film. Il metodo critico adottato si 
potrebbe definire una sorta di “Reader/Response criticism”, complicato da un elemento 
psicanalitico di ascendenza freudiana. In realta convergono in questo tipo di analisi un 
serio lavoro filologico, un’esegesi testuale accurata e acuta, nonché un patrimonio di 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 611 


letture e conoscenze che consentono di affrontare i testi scelti da angolature inconsuete. E 
inoltre di vitale importanza la posizione di ascolto adottata da tutte e tutti nei confronti 
del testo, una passivita per cui si richiede a quest’ultimo di agire sull’anima del lettore o 
della lettrice e di costruire un percorso interpretativo di cui l’esegeta é non tanto il 
conduttore, quanto il testimone. Va subito precisato, a scanso d’equivoci, che includere il 
vissuto personale nell’attivita critica non vuole dire ricorrere a un soggettivismo 
esasperato e narcisista, 0 a un altrettanto superficiale impressionismo sentimentale — dati 
che potrebbero interessare, al pit, gli amici intimi di chi scrive. Includere il vissuto 
personale vuol dire far risuonare un sé che é culturalmente connotato, nutrito di studi e 
letture, arricchito di esperienze relazionali, affacciato su un contesto sociale e 
intellettuale. Vuol dire anche mettere per un attimo in disparte l’arroganza della ragione 
analitica per far parlare le “ragioni dell’anima”. E il risultato, ben lungi dall’assomigliare 
a una sfilacciata e inconcludente seduta terapeutica, si rivela, a lettura ultimata, 
straordinariamente affascinante e coeso. 

I lavori curati da Letizia Comba, docente di Psicologia dell’ Arte e della Letteratura, 
sono il frutto conclusivo di un’intensa attivita seminariale condotta con le studentesse e 
gli studenti dell’Universita di Verona. Nel corso di pit di un decennio i suoi seminari 
hanno cercato di ricostruire l’incontro con la madre, utilizzando la mitologia, non solo 
europea, e creando poi una genealogia emotivo-culturale con le madri “simboliche” 
dell’Otto/Novecento (Paolina Leopardi, la Regina Margherita, Teresa Noce...), per 
rendersi infine conto che era impossibile procedere oltre senza incontrare il “negativo”: 
senza quella che si imponeva come una catartica e rivelatrice “discesa agli Inferi”. Da cid 
prendono spunto gli studi contenuti nel volume. 

In “Il viaggio del figlio minore: una lettura della parabola del figliol prodigo”, 
Francesca Migliavacca si interroga sul ruolo del figlio pit piccolo. Avendo diritto a una 
somma di denaro inferiore a quella del primogenito, il figlio minore ne riceve perd in 
cambio meno obblighi nei confronti del padre e rivendica una maggiore autonomia. Si 
allontana cosi dalla casa paterna — una palese trasgressione — per un viaggio che 
rappresenta un emblematico incontro con la propria ombra. Ne tornera non ancora in 
grado di accettare il perdono del padre; non ancora pronto alla resa e alla rinascita. In 
“Asa Nisi Masa. Le vicende del puer in Otto e Mezzo di Federico Fellini”, Alberto 
Sacchetto indaga le vicende di Guido Anselmi (Marcello Mastroianni) in procinto di 
girare una nuova pellicola. In realta Anselmi é un puer, un ragazzo, che affronta con 
immaturita le sue relazioni con un femminile marcatamente edipico. La giostra di donne 
che lo attorniano — |’amante, la moglie, la madre, la possibile nuova amante — 
rispecchiano la fondamentale incapacita del regista di armonizzare il proprio maschile e 
femminile; incapacita evidenziata nel modo in cui questi gestisce la propria sessualita. 
“Lou Andreas-Salomé. I] mito di una donna” (a cura di Manuela Vaccari) presenta un 
aspetto poco noto della vita di questa Musa ispiratrice di Nietszche e Rilke. Per pit di 
quarant’anni Lou Salomé rimarra vicina a Friedrich Karl Andreas, che aveva sposato con 
la clausola che il matrimonio non venisse consumato. Tale legame, spezzato solo dalla 
morte, rappresenta per Lou Salomé un ineluttabile attraversamento dell’oscurita, la 
paradossale volonta di conoscersi radicandosi nell’angoscia di un rapporto tanto 
inspiegabile quanto inscindibile. In “Assenti in presenza. L’esperienza della notte nel 
Cantico dei Cantici’, Caterina Spillari racconta come questo testo le abbia finalmente 
parlato quando ha messo da parte il cospicuo apparato storico-critico-filologico di cui si 
era armata per interpretarlo. Solo quando anche lei ha affrontato il mondo dei morti, il 


612 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


testo le ha rivelato un significato recondito. Struggente lirica d’amore, il Cantico sancisce 
la necessita dell’attraversamento della notte e dell’ignoto, quale ineludibile premessa 
all’incontro amoroso. “Etty Hillesum e il respiro dell’anima” (di Maria Grazia Corda) 
legge il Diario della scrittrice ebrea cercando di capire il senso del suo volontario, 
entusiasta incontro con la morte. Avviandosi con totale consapevolezza, se non con 
caparbia determinazione, verso il campo di prigionia di Westerbork, Etty Hillesum 
accetta di aderire totalmente al destino del suo popolo. Abbracciando la morte, intende 
sfuggire alle tiranniche pretese di un sé che vuole egoisticamente pensare soltanto alla 
propria sopravvivenza fisica. “La madre in lutto” di Letizia Comba conclude il volume 
con un lirismo straziante. L’articolo sviscera il legame madre-figlio — quando questo 
viene scisso dalla prematura morte del figlio — alla luce sapienziale del Tao Te Ching. 
Lo fa cercando di trovare un senso “altro”, e una impossibile, e forse inaccettabile, 
consolazione per una perdita che ribalta il ciclo stesso dell’esistenza. Solo la personale, 
definitiva discesa agli Inferi — che la studiosa affrontera, con inquietante coincidenza, 
proprio durante la stampa del libro (morira in un incidente automobilistico) — potra 
esprimere un senso, ma, questa volta, davvero indicibile. 

Anna Maria Torriglia, University of California at Padua 


Sante Matteo e Stefano Bellucci (a cura di), Africa Italia. Due continenti si 
avvicinano, Faraeditore, Santarcangelo di Romagna, 1999. 

This eclectic and interesting collection of essays is grouped around the broad theme of 
the relationship between Africa and Italia.) The essays are introduced by a 
‘lettera/introduzione’ (‘to Italy’) by Sante Matteo that introduces some of the sub-themes 
of the book. For example, there is a hint at the links between Italian immigration and 
immigration into Italy; the legacy, or non-legacy, of Italian colonialism and invasions of 
Italy over time; and the status and production of the immigrant writers over various 
historical periods. Finally, Matteo hints at the possibilities of an original form of cultural 
renaissance provided for by the arrival of over a million foreign immigrants in Italy over 
the last twenty years. In fact, the introduction betrays the literary/literature bias of this 
collection, which underplays the role of history, anthropology and geography. The varied 
nature of the essays here is both the main strength, and the main weakness, of this book, 
emphasising the possibilities and limits of ‘cultural studies’. This eclecticism is not here 
held together by any serious overview, particularly in historical terms, thus making the 
loose collection just that, and meaning that it can be judged purely on the individual 
quality of each essay, and not really as a whole. 

Thus, there is a piece on earthquakes with scientific maps, which seems particularly 
out of place, followed by an essay on the economics of immigration, which provides 
some useful background information. John Brackett’s extremely original chapter looks at 
the Italian imagination concerning Africa (and the imagery about Africa) during the 
Renaissance, which problematises the whole concept of ‘Africa’ (a concept used fairly 
liberally in many of the other pieces in this volume). Anna Maria Medici’s chapter is 
based around a voyage within Italy of a Tunisian poet during the nineteenth century. This 
essay is bounded by solid historical research, which then focuses on the experiences of 
one Muhammad al-Sanusi (1851-1900). Al-Sanusi visited Naples, Rome and Livorno in 
1882, and then stayed for some time in Tuscany. He admired, but did not identify with 
what he saw of European culture, and described this admiration through poetry and 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 613 


stories about his travels. Italian cities were particularly impressive for al-Sanusi, who also 
criticised a number of aspects of Italian culture and compared them, often in minute 
detail, with practices and customs in Italy. Medici’s piece, backed by a rich scholarly 
apparatus, opens up a series of questions concerning the Africa-Italy relationship, which 
are merely touched upon elsewhere in the volume, and reverses the general trend by 
analysing Italy through African eyes. 

Some aspects of Italian colonialism are discussed in Calchi Novati’s useful piece, 
which, however, has little connection with other essays in this book and is not, unlike 
many other pieces here, backed up by footnotes and references. The colonial theme is 
also dealt with by Cristina Lombard-Diop in her essay analysing the voyage of an Italian 
woman, Rosalia Pianavia Vivaldi, in Eritrea between 1893 and 1895. Vivaldi was the 
wife of the Italian commander of the zone of Asmara, and this essay, like that of Medici, 
allows a different take on the colonial problematic through the use of an Italian woman’s 
writing concerning her time in Africa, while much recent work has concentrated on the 
relationship between Italian soldiers and African women. This analysis, however, does 
not fulfill all its promise, and there is a not entirely successful leap between the first and 
the second parts of the chapter, with the second part dealing with the work of Lombroso 
and some analyses of nascent Italian racism around the turn of the century. Some of these 
themes are taken up in Laura Harris’s short polemical piece concerning questions of race, 
immigration and ‘the other’. 

The rest of the book concentrates on immigrant literature in Italy, immigrant cinema 
and the representation of immigrants in Italian cinema. Particular attention is paid to two 
important, pioneering books published in Italy, Salah Methnani’s and Mario Fortunato’s 
Immigrato and Pap Khouma’s Jo, venditore di elefanti (1990). These books marked the 
first stage of immigration into Italy, and over the last few years a small-scale industry has 
grown up around this genre of literary production. Immigrant ‘characters’ have found 
their way into Italian literature of all kinds, especially the flourishing detective novel 
sector. In some ways these essays are all a touch dated, then, as the speed of integration 
and political processes relating to immigration has moved beyond the images of pioneer 
and mainly small-trader immigrants depicted here. The concluding chapters of the book 
deal in some detail with the questions of Italian national identity and its relationship with 
immigration (Gabriella Romani); and the work of a number of writers including Moravia, 
Volponi, Gianni Celati and the immigrants Kolma-Ebri and Wasswa. There is also an 
interview with Komla-Ebri, who is now an Italian citizen, a doctor in a hospital in Erba, 
and the author of Quando attraverso il fiume (1997), amongst other novels. Finally, 
Graziella Parati and, in a much shorter piece, Maria Silvia Riccio both take as their theme 
the representation of immigranis in Italian cinema. The concentration on Africa (and the 
publication) prevents, however, any mention of the most powerful films concerning 
immigration to be released in Italy during the 1990s: Gianni Amelio’s extraordinary 
Lamerica and Cosi Ridevano (1998), as well as the same director’s documentary on 
immigration produced by the RAI. Africa, Italia is completed by a general bibliography. 

In conclusion, this is a useful and, at times, illuminating volume, which highlights a 
number of important themes, but which suffers from an excessive fragmentation and the 
lack of any attempt at an organic introduction bringing together, or putting into context, 
the various essays collected here. 

John Foot, University College London 


614 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Renzo Ricchi, Selected poems, traduzione di Catherine O’Brien, introduzione di 
Mario Luzi, Gradiva Publications, 2000, pp. 67. 

La raccolta di poesie di questa pubblicazione, é una selezione della traduttrice Catherine 
O’Brien, la quale ha preso in considerazione, della vasta produzione di Renzo Ricchi, il 
periodo che va dal 1950 al 1993, quindi dagli esordi di un Ricchi ancora adolescente fino 
agli anni maturi dell’autore. Per comprendere meglio |’opera di Ricchi, e poiché questa 
raccolta é la prima che appare negli Stati Uniti, ¢ importante conoscere la formazione del 
poeta che é anche drammaturgo, saggista, narratore e che é stato a lungo giornalista per la 
televisione italiana. Altrettanto necessario per comprendere il perché delle scelte di 
O’Brien — docente di Italianistica presso la National University di Galway in Irlanda — 
é la sua predilezione per altri autori coinvolti con il tema del sacro, e da lei tradotti, come 
Luzi, Guidacci e Merini. O’Brien ha anche individuato con molta sensibilita il cammino 
unitario del linguaggio di Ricchi, che si ripropone con coerenza, pur nella sua evoluzione 
stilistica, durante tutto il suo impegno letterario. 

La linea che lega le composizioni poetiche di Ricchi é quella della spiritualita, che 
affiora con insistenza nell’arco di tutta la sua produzione. Mario Luzi, nella sua 
introduzione, individua due filoni nell’opera di Ricchi, di cui scrive: “La sua poesia non 
ha mai evitato il confronto con le inequalita e le palesi ingiustizie della storia”. Il pathos 
della sua scrittura si esplica, per Luzi, su due livelli, “quello elegiaco del tempo e del 
paesaggio infantile evocato”, unito con “l’agonismo e la fede nella progressione che 
alimentavano la sua profezia politica” durante gli anni giovanili. Degli anni pit recenti, il 
grande Maestro pone I’accento sull’aspetto “morale e metafisico” in cui si esprime “un 
accento pienamente religioso”, consustanziato, nel progredire del tempo, da “assillo 
conoscitivo e rimorso cristiano”. 

Dalla lettura delle pagine della raccolta si evidenzia che il tema fondamentale é 
proprio quello metafisico e metastorico, ma sempre con un occhio alla realta dell’uomo, 
osservato nella sua quotidianita. La costante é il rapporto tra l’uomo e il mistero della 
creazione, tra l’uomo e il mistero del mondo, intriso di male e di dolore, infine la 
riflessione sul destino di solitudine dell’uomo. 

In “Il treno é fermo”, dal libro “Le radici dello spirito — Poesie 1950-1985”, si 
evidenzia |’immagine dell’uomo immobile, mentre cresce l’angoscia del dubbio, in attesa 
davanti al proprio destino, immerso in un paesaggio e in un’ora del giorno definiti: “II 
treno é fermo. Qualcuno I’ha fatto arrestare. / Siamo in fondo a una valle sotto un 
crepuscolo acceso. / Forse é veramente |’ora del giudizio. Riavremo / un sistema di 
certezze in un mondo che crolla. / Scende il buio e soffoca il pensiero. Non succede / 
nulla. Rendo alle cose i loro nomi: noia stanchezza / fretta di arrivare. La notte ha 
inghiottito tutto. / Nessuno viene in mio aiuto?”(16). 

Di nuovo, nella seconda strofa di “Tra ricerca e dubbio”, tornano martellanti le 
parole dubbio e ricerca, tra cui “l’anima tenta un accordo / ma nel mattino lavato / dal 
vento di settembre / — dolcissima agonia dell’estate — / le note ricadono su se stesse”. 
Non c’é risposta, ancora, alla richiesta d’aiuto, perd, in chiusura, l’oppressione si scioglie 
in un moto liberatorio e “la gioia parte / sulle ali delle rondini / verso i mari del sud” (20). 
Lo spirito si solleva e prosegue |’avventura della sua indagine, portando con sé il fardello 
delle incertezze. 

Si diceva che per Ricchi l’uomo é in costante rapporto con il mistero della creazione 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 615 


e con il sacro, e la poesia “La parola” delinea con potenza questo Dio-Logos, pensiero 
fatto parola, che parla attraverso la creazione: “Ho dato i nomi / quindi ho fatto esistere / 
ho foggiato gli déi / e messo in moto il tempo / ho creato i miti e i riti / gl’incantesimi, le 
visioni / do la vita e distruggo / determino il destino / quando mi pronunciano / mi fissano 
nei cieli / per l’eternita” (28). 

Sono due i volumi da cui O’Brien ha attinto, e il secondo, uscito nel 1993, sotto il 
titolo “Nel sabato dell’eternita”, procede sui temi della coscienza e dell’essere, tenendo 
dietro all’avventura della verita, dentro lo scenario della creazione. Qui Ricchi si rivolge 
sempre a un Creatore che opera nel mondo in una maniera che l’uomo non arriva a 
capire, e questi lo interroga e si interroga, a volte con toni rassegnati, pill spesso con 
accenti di speranza. La sorte umana della perdita, della vita che, mentre noi camminiamo, 
si perde nel tempo immobile, é ben presente nella lirica “Qui venne |’approdo”, un 
approdo “fra terre inesplorate / e scogli erratici / sotto cieli infiniti. / Tra le mani utensili 
incerti. / Dimenticato il mistero fatale dell’ origine”. I giorni trascorrono ma “senza futuro 
tutti nel presente”, fino al momento in cui gli uomini vengono “trafitti dall’aculeo della 
conoscenza. / Cosi inizid il cammino / verso il silenzio dell’avvenire. / Il tempo divenne 
irreversibile. / la Creazione si fece Storia” (32). 

Si fa sempre piu ardita in queste poesie l’idea che l’uomo e Dio sono entrambi attori, 
quindi |’essere umano non é succube ma partecipe del creato come creatura a sua volta, e 
percid deciso a trovare risposte alle proprie domande, che suonano incalzanti: “Che 
bisogno / avevi tu di noi? / Dipende dal nostro / il tuo destino? / Che meriti dunque / 
abbiamo per esistere?” (34). Ma vi appare anche il coraggio di trarre conclusioni, 
’azzardo di ipotesi consolatorie, perché il Creatore che ha disegnato le ali alle farfalle, “il 
compositore che dirige le orchestre / delle foreste e delle scogliere / |’alchimista 
inventore di mille profumi [...]” non pud amare la morte. “Sei troppo inquieto / ci 
assomigli troppo. / Ami le sorprese / lo stupore” (36), conclude il poeta. 

Quali sono i poeti di riferimento, cui Ricchi guardava e in cui ancora oggi si 
riconosce, appare evidente: Davide Maria Turoldo, e naturalmente Mario Luzi, il quale 
ricerca in modo pit tormentato, sconsolato, mentre Ricchi crede in un Dio del divenire, e 
nella gioia della speranza; e poi Ungaretti, per l’emozione di certi suoi versi, e ancora 
Montale per le sue fulminanti intuizioni. Ricchi si sente vicino a quegli autori del 
Novecento che si muovono tra dubbio e fede, e per i quali, come per lui, la poesia si fa 
diario di un tragitto spirituale, un’autobiografia non di eventi ma di tappe di un cammino 
interiore. La dichiarazione che conclude “Se fallissimo il bersaglio” delinea questo 
processo di un costante divenire: “Come potremmo non essere impazienti? / Tu conosci il 
peso dell’attesa. / Viandante sei come ognuno di noi / sempre in cammino” (44), e 
afferma la fede in un’entita spirituale che é dentro di noi e ci accompagna. 

Il concetto agostiniano che chi cerca Dio lo ha, forse, gia trovato, si esprime nella 
composizione “Silenzioso”, che é un ulteriore tentativo di instaurare un dialogo: “Chi 
tace é indecifrabile. / Cercarti / é gia trovarti un poco?” Dio risponde? Si, parla attraverso 
la creazione, perché tutto quello che esiste é il linguaggio di Dio: “Fra tanto continui a 
creare / vicende di tempi / e ci fai assetati di futuro / colmi d’inquietudine” (50). C’é un 
aforisma di Ricchi, che a questo punto vale citare, tra i tanti che ha composto: “Noi 
vorremmo svelare cid che Dio tiene nascosto. Ma forse il mistero della vita deve resistere 
affinché noi abbiamo uno scopo: la ricerca, la congettura; anche la paura e la speranza. 
Alternative alla noia cosmica che potrebbe ucciderci se sapessimo tutto”. 

Paola Bortolotti, California State University International Program in Florence, New 


616 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


York University in Florence 


Jennifer Lagier. Second-Class Citizen. Lafayette, IN: Bordighera, 2000. Pp. 46. 
Jennifer Lagier’s autobiographical poetry explores the quotidian experiences of growing 
up in an Italian-American family within the larger political landscape of the latter half of 
the twentieth century. The thirty-two poems of Second-Class Citizen pay tribute to her 
Italian heritage as they recount episodes from her grandmother’s generation, and then 
move chronologically through her own experiences as a girl, young woman, and adult. “I 
am memory’s immigrant / charged with the past, / imagining the future, and / writing 
poetry to thwart / any ethnic erasure” (27). The final poems narrate the author’s growing 
political awareness in a country that not always so eagerly welcomes new arrivals to its 
shores. Lagier’s poems deal with relationships and differences among the generations, 
feminism and women’s issues, age, Catholicism, and the effects of poverty and American 
consumerist culture on the Italian immigrants. 

Drawing from her experience as a photographer, Lagier has structured the book as a 
family photo album including pictures from her own collection. Each poem represents a 
snapshot of the past and seeks to capture the feeling of a moment lost in time. Her poetry 
often describes specific photographs included in the volume, as in the poem Communion 
Portrait: “They stand, one line above the other, / stern Italian matriarchs in black suits, / 
three devout Catholic daughters” (13). This image becomes a launching point for further 
discussion on the mother-daughter relationship and the transition from childhood to the 
world of adults. The theme of strong opposition, symbolized by the black and white 
photographs in the book, is repeated in the poetry, as Lagier contrasts the “blackness” of 
the mothers’ dresses to the “virginal” whiteness of the girls’ veils. Her language 
emphasizes the visual, occasionally including a few Italian phrases to provide specificity. 

The book can be roughly divided into four sections. The first group of poems deals 
with the first generation of immigrants in the family. This is the generation of her great- 
grandmother and these poems are dedicated to individual family members. The feelings 
of hope upon arrival to the new world are compared to the reality of being different in a 
foreign land. Her poems tenderly relate the family’s tragedies as well as the moments of 
triumph. 

The second set of poems deals with the first generation of children, including the 
poet herself, and what it meant to grow up in an Italian-American household. She 
recounts her family’s struggle to integrate into the American mainstream. The 
relationship among the women recalls the weight of folk wisdom in the family. “Life, you 
once said, is like cutting an onion: / you cry your way through it” (35). Also important is 
the theme of rebellion both as a young person and against that immigrant identity. 

The third set of poems is announced by the poem “Confirmation,” which deals with 
the poet’s passage into adulthood, her awakening to her heritage, and the reconciliation of 
that heritage to her identity. She reflects on the role she wishes to assume as an adult and 
the significance of her past. 

The last set of poems now sees the poet as a mature adult who has come to 
understand her politicized identity. “This divided tree and I disprove / the melting-pot 
mythology. / From our single, traumatized stems flourish / warring identities” (42). These 
final poems contrast her experience to that of other Italian-American women, 
contextualizing it within the larger political framework. 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 617 


Jennifer Lagier, a member of the National Writers Union, Local 7, and the Italian 
American Writers Association, teaches at Hartnell College and California State 
University in Monterey Bay. Second-Class Citizen is her second book of poetry. She 
published Where We Grew Up (1999) in addition to writing in various journals and 
anthologies, including online, in the United States and Italy. 

Dawn Green, Stanford University 


Cinzia Sartini Blum e Lara Trubowitz. Contemporary Italian Women Poets. A 
Bilingual Anthology. New York: Italica Press, 2001. Pp. LII + 308 

L’interesse critico per la scrittura al femminile in Italia é fenomeno relativamente recente, 
legato al fiorire del pensiero femminista ed alla influenza dei Gender Studies di 
oltreoceano. Se questo é un dato oggettivo per la scrittura femminile tout court, risulta 
tuttavia ancor pili valido per lo specifico poetico di quella scrittura. 

La poesia delle donne é pianeta ancora semi-inesplorato dalla critica accademica 
ufficiale. Nei volumi antologici che edificano e trasmettono mappe e percorsi di poetiche 
del Novecento italiano — i Mengaldo (Per Vincenzo Mengaldo, Poeti Italiani del 
Novecento, Milano, Mondadori, 1978), i Sanguineti (Edoardo Sanguineti, Poesia del 
Novecento, Torino, Einaudi, 1969) —, la linea femminile rappresenta spesso una regione 
minoritaria o ancor pil marginale di altri “tradizionali” territori di frontiera, come la 
poesia dialettale. La scrittura poetica delle donne fatica a trovare un riconoscimento 
critico che non sappia di reperto antropologico o di ghettizzazione stilistico-tematica, e 
che sappia piuttosto discernere, nel paesaggio multiforme di quei versi, diversita ed 
appartenenze. 

Di 1a dal conteggio statistico delle presenze e delle assenze nel Parnaso 
Novecentesco (sia esso classico 0 d’avanguardia), é necessario che questa frontiera della 
scrittura rivendichi totale espressione e visibilita. Operazione culturale essenziale e 
delicata, che negli anni Settanta in Italia, é stata affidata al volume Donne in poesia di 
Biancamaria Frabotta (Donne in Poesia. Antologia della poesia femminile in Italia, 
prefazione di Dacia Maraini, Roma, Savelli, 1976) e che, dopo I’indagine pubblicata su 
rivista di Mariella Bettarini su donne e poesia negli anni Ottanta e primi Novanta (Donne 
e poesia: seconda parte - Dal 1980 al 1989, “Poesia” 11.121 [Ottobre 1998]: 61), 
richiede ora ulteriori aggiornamenti e sviluppi. 

Consapevole di queste premesse, ¢ su questa linea che si colloca il volume 
Contemporary Italian Women Poets. A Bilingual Anthology, pubblicato per la Italica 
Press di New York da Cinzia Sartini Blum e Lara Trubowitz. Si tratta di un contributo 
importante, che offre uno strumento testuale di sicuro interesse non solo per il pubblico di 
lingua inglese a cui é indirizzato, ma anche per J’italianistica ufficiale, priva di un 
analogo repertorio testuale in volume aggiornato alle ultime battute della scrittura in versi 
al femminile. 

Il volume presenta un taglio critico che lo differenzia dalla tradizionale produzione 
saggistica di scuola anglo-americana: per molti aspetti, |’"antologia segue un’articolazione 
prettamente “italiana”, adottando una prospettiva diacronica fondata su una 
periodizzazione per “generazioni”. La rosa delle autrici presentate nell’antologia viene 
infatti introdotta in tre passaggi successivi: dapprima nell’introduzione storico-critica; 
successivamente nella sezione antologica dei testi; infine nel repertorio delle note bio- 
bibliografiche. Tre differenti criteri si succedono nella strutturazione delle tre sezioni: un 


618  Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


criterio generazionale, uno cronologico ed uno alfabetico. 

Le autrici dell’antologia citano, nell’introduzione, due fondamentali interlocutori 
testuali della loro opera: il primo, The Defiant Muse: Italian Feminist Poems from the 
Middle Ages to the Present, New York, The Feminist Press, 1986, curato da Allen 
Beverly, Kittel Muriel e Jewell Keala Jane, é un’antologia che esplora in chiave 
femminista l’intero arco della scrittura poetica femminile italiana, condensando scritture 
lontane nel tempo e nello spazio; il secondo volume, /talian Women Poets of the 
Twentieth Century, Dublin, Irish Academic Press, 1996, curato da Catherine O’ Brien, 
riduce lo spettro temporale dell’analisi alla contemporaneita esplorata nella voce di 
undici donne-poeta, in percorsi che intrecciano strettamente biografia, testi e temi, 
all’insegna di una radicale diversita della scrittura poetica femminile. 

Indagine a vasto raggio, transgenerazionale e transregionale, e individuazione di 
specificita e differenze: questi sono i tratti che Blum e Trubowitz fanno propri in questa 
loro antologia di terza generazione. Esiste, tuttavia, un’importante differenza: questo 
volume intende, attraverso un approccio pil sintetico che analitico, ricondurre le derive 
femminili lungo le vie maestre della poesia del secondo Novecento. Pensiero 
dell’appartenenza poetica, dunque, oltre che della differenza. II testo trascrive i segni — 
occulti, inesplorati 0 mai registrati — dell’essenziale contributo delle donne alla 
geografia ufficiale delle poetiche, correnti e scuole della poesia italiana contemporanea. 

Questa scelta comporta la subordinazione di altri possibili tracciati critici, quale, ad 
esempio, un fruttuosissimo percorso tematico all’interno della raccolta. Alla ricerca 
dell’identita, dell’intreccio di passione amorosa e scrittura, di testualita e sessualita, di 
metafisica e quotidianita — tutti temi elencati da Blum e Trubowitz nell’introduzione 
(XVII) — si sovrappongono carsiche linee di revisioni mitiche e deflagrazioni psichiche 
e psicotiche della scrittura. L’analisi tematica, tuttavia, pur non essendo perseguita nel 
volume in chiave sistematica, compare disseminata nelle analisi dedicate alle poetesse 
nell’ambito dell’inquadramento diacronico introduttivo ed affiora implicitamente 
dall’accorta scelta dei testi, foriera di future esplorazioni. 

Duplice dunque il compito dell’ampia e dettagliata sezione introduttiva. Anzitutto, si 
vuole condurre il pubblico di lettori/lettrici nella selva complessa e stratificata della 
poesia italiana del secondo dopoguerra, dalle sue matrici ermetiche alle sue ramificazioni 
realistiche e neoavanguardistiche, fino alle filiazioni neo-orfiche e ironico-ludiche della 
poesia di fine millennio. Al contempo, tuttavia, la sintesi storica si apre a schegge 
analitiche dedicate alle donne-poeta che intersecano scuole, correnti e diatribe letterarie, 
reagendo in sintonia o distonia al clima culturale della loro epoca. 

La seconda sezione introduce direttamente i testi con traduzione a fronte, senza 
alcun commento critico. Le autrici sono elencate in ordine cronologico, e cronologico é¢ 
anche l’ordine interno alle singole sequenze antologiche. Il corpus delle poetesse 
comprende, nell’ordine: Daria Menicanti, Margherita Guidacci, Cristina Campo, 
Armanda Guiducci, Elena Clementelli, Maria Luisa Spaziani, Luciana Frezza, Vera 
Gherarducci, Amelia Rosselli, Gabriella Leto, Alda Merini, Rossana Ombres, Giulia 
Niccolai, Piera Oppezzo, Dacia Maraini, Jolanda Insana, Anna Cascella, Mariella 
Bettarini, Luciana Notari, Biancamaria Frabotta, Vivian Lamarque, Patrizia Cavalli, 
Rosita Copioli, Gabriella Sica, Patrizia Valduga. 

I nomi presenti nella raccolta, con alcune eccezioni, sono in parte gia noti al 
pubblico anglo-americano attraverso la traduzione di loro testi nel gia citato The Defiant 
Muse e nel volume The Promised Land: Italian Poetry after 1975 (Sun & Moon Press, 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 619 


Los Angeles, 1999, a c. Di Luigi Ballerini et al.), oltre che in selezioni pubblicate su 
riviste. Esiste gia una tradizione critica consolidata negli ambienti universitari anglo- 
americani per le voci pil’ note presenti in questo elenco, dalla Merini alla Rosselli, ma il 
contributo conoscitivo, per voci nuove o meno conosciute, offerto dall’antologia qui 
recensita é indubbio. L’elenco presta tuttavia il fianco a critiche concernenti la selezione. 
Se l’assenza di Antonia Pozzi (outsider suicida della quarta generazione, punto di 
partenza della selezione frabottiana), pur contestabile, appare giustificata dal rigido 
criterio cronologico, non pud non suscitare interrogativi |’esclusione di una delle voci pit 
significative della scuola femminista del “pensiero della differenza”: la Bianca Tarozzi di 
Nessuno vince il leone (Arsenale editrice, Verona, 1988) e di La buranella (Venezia, 
Marsilio, 1996). Sarebbe stato anche interessante introdurre gli esperimenti dialettali di 
Franca Grisoni (La Boba, Gernova, San Marco dei Giustiniani, 1986, con poesie tradotte 
da Justin Vitiello): una delle protagoniste della rinascita della poesia dialettale in Italia, 
vincitrice del premio Viareggio nel 1997. 

Notevole la scelta dei brani poetici, che offre, come si diceva, ampia conferma ad 
analisi tematiche e che rivela |’affascinante varieta ed originalita di questi componimenti, 
nelle scelte stilistico-formali, nelle intonazioni, nelle reti metaforiche, registrando al 
contempo influssi ora classico-ermetici, ora neo-avanguardistici, fino alla prosasticita 
delle forme diaristiche o ad una estesa narrativita. A volte la scelta, soprattutto per autrici 
gia note e tradotte, non include testi recenti (assenti, ad esempio, brani dalle Cento 
quartine e altre storie d'amore di Patrizia Valduga, Einaudi, Torino, 1997), o canonici, 
come La libellula di Amelia Rosselli (Le poesie, Milano, Garzanti, 1997, pp. 139-58), o 
La terra santa di Alda Merini (La Terra Santa, Milano, All’insegna del pesce d’oro, 
1984, pp. 40-41), o La viandanza di Biancamaria Frabotta (La viandanza, Milano, 
Mondadori, pp. 78-82), cui pure si fa accenno nell’introduzione, per presentare poesie o 
raccolte meno conosciute. Se da una parte questo permette un’esplorazione pit originale 
di questi corpi poetici, dall’altra l’esigenza divulgativa dell’antologia avrebbe forse 
richiesto qualche campionatura pit “ovvia”. 

Per quanto concerne la traduzione, la qualita dei testi tradotti é senz’altro alta e 
costituisce un punto di forza dell’antologia. In coda alla sezione introduttiva (LI-LIII), 
quasi a mediare |’impatto con la sezione antologica bilingue a seguire, Blum e Trubowitz 
dedicano un piccolo intervento critico-teorico al lavoro di traduzione svolto, descrivendo 
i problemi incontrati ed indicando i criteri adottati nel delicato passaggio dall’ italiano 
all’inglese. Particolarmente interessante, in questa riflessione sul processo traduttivo, 
appare la questione del “genere” dei nomi e degli aggettivi, quanto mai centrale in una 
antologia di questo tipo. L’assenza del genere femminile nella sostantivazione e nella 
aggetivazione inglese produce all’interno dei testi tradotti cortocircuiti a scoppio 
ritardato, micro-shock che introducono un aspetto di sorpresa all’interno del testo, 
potenziandone la carica eversiva nel senso del “genere’’. Flessibili quanto basta nelle loro 
traduzioni, Blum e Trubowitz sono felicemente “intimate but not mimetic” (LII), citando 
le teorie sulla traduzione di Susan A. Handelman, anche se non mancano fraintendimenti. 
Tradurre un’“arcadia” rosselliana in “Arcadia” (Attorno a questo mio corpo 86) 
costituisce una non piccola forzatura del senso poetico, ad esempio; ma si tratta di un 
punto discutibile in un tessuto verbale altrimenti felicemente trasposto in altro idioma. 
Rosselli, Insana e Niccolai, d’altronde, con i loro giochi linguistici e neologismi, sono 
senza dubbio fra le autrici pit: impegnative per chi ha il compito di tradurle. 

La terza ed ultima sezione del volume comprende la serie delle schede bio- 


620 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


bibliografiche: concise ed esaurienti le biografie, aggiornate e dettagliate le schede 
bibliografiche dedicate alle singole poetesse, che contengono non soltanto i titoli delle 
raccolte poetiche pubblicate, ma anche |’elenco di testi in prosa, traduzioni e opere di 
carattere saggistico. A seguire, infine, una preziosa bibliografia selezionata che 
comprende le antologie contenenti testi poetici di donne pubblicate in Italia e nei paesi di 
lingua inglese, una serie di saggi critici ispirati alla tradizione anglo-americana dei 
Gender Studies 0 a quella del femminismo italiano e testi di storia letteraria. Un 
contributo importante che Blum e Trubowitz avrebbero potuto inserire in questa pur 
ottima bibliografia é una lista delle recensioni, prefazioni e introduzioni con cui il mondo 
della poesia ufficiale ha accompagnato gli esordi o le pubblicazioni di queste donne- 
poeta. Se é vero che esse non compaiono o fanno fatica a comparire in antologie, hanno 
tutte perd avuto lettori illustri, pronti a riconoscerne |’indubbio valore. In un’antologia 
che punta a ricondurre i sentieri della scrittura poetica femminile nell’alveo della poesia 
del secondo Novecento gli scritti di Pasolini, Montale, Sereni, Giudici, Raboni, 
Manganelli, Corti rappresenterebbero un’ideale controprova critica di un dialogo 
possibile e di un riconoscimento dovuto fra questi due interlocutori ideali. 

Contemporary Italian Women Poets rappresenta dunque uno strumento d’analisi 
utilissimo, un repertorio testuale ricco ed aggiornato, ed offre un taglio critico innovativo 
nell’indagine sulla poesia delle donne in Italia, legato tanto alla scuola della “differenza” 
quanto ad un discorso di “appartenenza” alle dinamiche culturali strutturanti del secondo 
Novecento, in un testo a suo modo unico in ambito sia anglo-americano che italiano. 

Quest’antologia costituira senz’altro una fonte importante di visibilita internazionale 
per la poesia al femminile in Italia, e un’occasione di stimolo e di rinnovamento del 
dibattito letterario e di “genere” intorno a questo validissimo e ancora parzialmente 
inesplorato corpus poetico. 

Stefania Benini, Stanford University 


Willi Jung, ed. Mitteilungen des Studiengangs Deutsch-Italienische Studien/Studi 
Italo-Tedeschi 5. Bonn: Universitat Bonn, 2001. Pp. 86. 

It has often been said that Italian influence on German life and letters is both widespread 
and profound. Comparatively speaking, the impact of German culture on Italy’s 
development may seem less obvious, but is nonetheless important in the context of 
Europe’s present day realities. Both types of influence will undoubtedly be investigated 
more extensively thanks to the efforts of a new program in German-Italian Studies at the 
University of Bonn (Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universitat Bonn). Students enrolled 
in this program study the interrelationship between these two relatively young European 
nations and their respective cultural identities. Since its founding in 1995, in an effort to 
raise consciousness, the department of German-Italian Studies has published annual 
volumes of proceedings. The most recent volume is the subject of this review. 

In his brief preface, co-editor Prof. Willi Jung hints at the important status that 
German-Italian Studies has recently attained. He calls attention to a ground-breaking 
colloquium entitled “German Poetry in Italy—lItalian Poetry in Germany” (“Deutsche 
Lyrik in Italien—Italienische Lyrik in Deutschland”), organized on October 26, 2001 to 
commemorate the five-year anniversary of the program. Leading the reader into the heart 
of this collection is a research article by Prof. Willi Hirdt, “Zur Modernitat Boccaccios,” 
on Boccaccio’s modernity and its influence on both G. E. Lessing (Nathan der Weise) 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 621 


and Thomas Mann (Mario und der Zauberer). The article’s aim is to show once again the 
impact of Boccaccio’s legacy on European culture across spatial and chronological 
boundaries. Here the author emphasizes how Lessing’s universal tolerance and Mann’s 
investigation of the human psyche owe to the Italian Medieval master. 

Following Hirdt’s discussion is an excerpt from an article by Professor Elio 
Providenti, dated December 1991 and published in 1995 in Nuova Antologia and treating 
Pirandello’s relationship to Jenny Schultz Lander, whom he met in Germany. The article 
is in Italian, making for a nice balance with Hirdt’s essay in German. Yet these studies in 
comparative literature may seem misplaced together with what follows: an assessment of 
the teaching of Italian in German schools by Professor Jung; a detailed German-Italian 
Studies program description; an account of an exchange trip to Florence by students in 
the program; and finally, a piece featuring in the table of contents as “Une [sic!] sguardo 
dietro le quinte,” in which elements of a theatre project in Bonn are highlighted. 

Despite the absence of a unified critical focus, the volume is purposeful and 
illustrative, describing a university program’s path from inception to its most recent 
milestones. The program was born of an agreement signed in 1994 after extensive 
planning by the Presidents of the University of Bonn, Professor Dr. Max G. Huber, and 
the University of Florence, Professor Paolo Blasi. Helping matters along was its status as 
a pilot project of the “Kohl-Amato Initiative” of 1992, a broader agreement to strengthen 
research and educational ties between Germany and Italy. The University of Bonn now 
offers a double major in German and Italian, or a Laurea in Studi Italo-Tedeschi, and is 
designed for German and Italian students of German who are competent in the field of 
Italian studies, as well as for German and Italian Italianists who are knowledgeable of 
German culture (76). Students earn the degree by completing nine semesters before 
taking final exams and earning a total of 80 credit hours (“Semesterwochenstunden” or 
“SWS”). These are roughly equivalent to American credit hours, considering that most 
courses grant two “SWS.” In their 5" and 6" semesters (junior year), students are 
required to study in either Bonn or Florence, depending on their major, and participate in 
a three-month professional internship. 

The few pages chronicling an interdisciplinary field trip to Central Italy 
organized by the German-Italian Studies program in collaboration with the Department of 
Geography at the University of Bonn (8/27 — 9/13/2001) contain commentary, a day-by- 
day itinerary, and six photographs of monuments and group members. The inclusion of a 
poem written by one of the group participants about her experience lends a personal 
touch to the volume. This ode, entitled “Offener Brief an Italien” (““Open Letter to Italy”), 
fittingly captures the openness with which one must confront both history and culture 
when visiting Italy’s ancient sites. 

The mission of the program is in line with its international scope, stressing cross- 
cultural awareness (“Interkulturalitét”) and introducing the new concept of 
“Europakompetenz,” which could be rendered as a highly desirable competence in 
European economic, social and political affairs. At the core of the curriculum are 
requirements (“Pflichtveranstaltungen”) in literature, philology, linguistics and teaching 
methodology, while the electives (“Wahlpflichtveranstaltungen”) include geography, 
ethnology (“Volkswirtschaft”), art history and translation. The program of study is 
presented by the co-editors in a thorough, comprehensive manner, which can make this 
publication appealing to students interested in teaching either Italian or German as a 
foreign language and who are open to a unique international experience. 


622 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Based on its description as presented here, the course of study would serve not 
only to build better career opportunities for students who are competent in the language 
and cultural relations of both nations, but would also foster a genuine learning 
community shared by both Italy and Germany. This is, at least, Professor Jung’s wish, 
made clear in his intervention about the teaching of Italian in German high schools and 
the preparation of teachers qualified to do so. A further goal is to develop curriculum 
frameworks for the teaching of Italian, which up to now do not exist in Germany, even 
though German high schools have been teaching Italian since 1981. The fact that only 
20% of the freshmen presently enrolled in the program plan to make teaching their career 
choice (54) is potentially a cause for concern. 

As for the learning objectives of the program, educators have long struggled to 
define and measure the concept of cultural competence, especially when it refers to the 
acquisition of knowledge or a set of skills that pertain to a foreign country. According to 
the mission of the program, the students pursuing a degree in German-ltalian Studies 
should attain cultural competence by complementing the core curriculum. Yet the 
definition of the program structure as we read it in the mission statement (76) remains 
somewhat vague, and one wonders how the success of it can be quantified, considering 
that the program was developed as an unprecedented pilot project aimed to deepen the 
relationships between Italy and Germany. 

Enrollment in the program is limited and subject to an entry test. No other 
information is provided about the selection criteria, the cost or the percentage of 
applicants who are accepted into the program. Based on this publication alone, it would 
be difficult to evaluate the consistency or success of the program because no statistical 
data are given as to how many students are presently enrolled, and more importantly, how 
many graduates there are and where they have gained employment. The class of 1995 
should, in fact, have completed the degree at the time of the volume’s publication. 
Especially because it is the first program of its kind in Germany (54), it would be 
valuable to knowt the career path of the remaining 80% of enrolled students. 

In concrete terms, the most innovative and ambitious goal of this project is that of 
combining a university degree with bi-national high school diplomas in Bonn and 
Florence (77). Considering the growing need for economic and political integration 
expressed by member nations of the EC, the notion of a bi-national high school degree 
could accomplish a number of important objectives. As a laboratory for educational 
restructuring both in the EC and beyond, in fact, this teacher education program could 
gain international attention. The directors of the German-Italian Studies Program would 
thus be well served to furnish more specific information about this experiment in future 
volumes of these proceedings, including some of its outcome’s assessment criteria and 
program benchmarks. One would imagine that a Laurea of this kind, with such a broad 
and comprehensive area of scholarly inquiry, could be highly desirable among Italian 
students in the complex making of a European community; and more significantly, it 
would be crucial in the creation of a European conscience, perhaps the true essence of 
that “Europakompetenz” which the creators of the program envisaged seven years ago. 


Daria Valentini, Stonehill College 


Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 623 


Brief Notices 
by Anne Tordi 


Portales 1 (August 2001). Pp. 145. Portales is a new journal sponsored by the 
Dipartimento di Filologia e Letterature Moderne of the University of Cagliari. Its aim is 
to create “un’occasione di incontro e di dibattiti, favorire nuove opportunita e offrire 
stimoli di ricerca, finalizzati soprattutto alla comunicazione scritta, per i molti giovani 
che coltivano interessi di studio e di approfondimento culturale [...].” The issue is 
divided into four sections: “Saggi,” “Eventi,” “Lingue e culture,” and “Recensioni.” 
Among the essays in this volume are: “Paradosso, grottesco e parodia nella Favola di 
Machiavelli” by Gonaria Floris; “Lazarillo de Tormes e Guzman de Alfarache nella 
versione di Barezzo Barezzi” by Maurizio Masala; “Lo studio della letteratura sarda: i 
testi e gli strumenti bibliografici” by Giovanni Pirodda; and “Una amicizia nuorese: 
lettere inedite di Grazia Deledda” by Giovanna Cerina. 

Lucio Romano. Lettere di Gioacchino Toma a Eduardo Dalbono. Poemetto. Lecce: 
Universita Popolare Galatina, 1997. Pp. 89. In this work, Lucio Romano creates an 
imaginary poetic correspondence from Gioacchino Toma to his friend and fellow painter, 
Eduardo Dalbono. The correspondence begins when Toma sends Dalbono a copy of his 
autobiography, Ricordi di un orfano (1886), and continues, touching on other aspects of 
Toma’s life. 

Lucio Romano. Una vita in versi. Percorsi e note critiche. Galatina: Edizioni II 
Campanile, 2001. Pp. 223. A collection of verses (pp. 17-143), followed by “Lettere di 
Gioacchino Toma a Eduardo Dalbono: poemetto” (pp. 145-82) and by “Percorsi e note 
critiche” (183-220) by various scholars and writers concerning Lucio Romano’s poetry. 
Frank J. Pettinelli. A Faraway Sun. First Books Library, 2002. Pp. 195. This novel 
revolves around the Pescara family who, as immigrants in early 20"-century America, 
struggle to improve their lives. Despite the efforts of their parents, “the sons and 
daughters find that success brings its own demons.” The author lives and writes in North 
Carolina. 

J. K. “Kirk Bonner.” Introduction to Sicilian Grammar. Ed. Gaetano Cipolla. 
Brooklyn, NY: Legas, 2001. Pp. 225. In this first comprehensive grammar of the 
Sicilian language, the author seeks to present a language “that most Sicilians would 
recognize as being distinctly Sicilian.” Because no true literary Sicilian language ever 
formed, Sicilian remains primarily a spoken language to this day, which is gradually 
being replaced by Italian. The book covers pronunciation and spelling, grammar, 
exercises, and a Sicilian-English, English-Sicilian vocabulary. 

Chroniques italiennes. Mélanges offerts a Pierre Laroche. Université de la Sorbonne 
Nouvelle 69/70 (2-3/2002). Pp. 222. Some of the essays in this collection are: “Quelques 
réflexions sur la traduction de La vita agra de Luciano Bianciardi” (Jacqueline Brunet); 
“Tre casi sospetti: un cas de réalisme symbolique” (Denis Ferraris); “Les inattendus de la 
narration dans le Pecorone de Ser Giovanni Fiorentino” (Béatrice Laroche); “Une figure 
emblématique: Michele di Lando vu par Machiavel” (Marina Marietti); and “Traduction 
de Lettere a Francesca de Erri De Luca” (Daniéle Valin). 


624 Annali d’italianistica 20 (2002) 


Alessandro Carrera. L’amore del secolo. Un paesaggio verbale. / Love of the Century. 
A Wordscape. Fuoricollana 5. Castel Maggiore: Book editore, 2000. Pp. 127. This 
bilingual collection is described by the author as “installation poetry. It is a poem made of 
1,000 lines divided into 100 short poems, one for each year of the century.” The poems 
are divided into titled sections for readers who wish to follow the story line. 

Luisa Rossina Villani. Running Away from Russia. Ital. trans. Luigi Fontanella. 
Boca Raton (FL): Bordighera, 2001. Pp. 67. This volume contains, in English and 
Italian parallel text, the collection of poems that was the winner of the Bordighera Poetry 
Prize for 2001. 

Nuove lettere. Rivista internazionale di poesia e letteratura 10.11 (1999). Pp. 199. This 
issue of the review of the Istituto italiano di cultura di Napoli contains sections of poetry, 
fiction, and essays. Among the writers represented are Tudor Arghezi, Josif Brodskij, 
Mihai Eminescu, Constantin Frosin, Roberto Pasanisi in poetry; Gianni Bartocci and 
Jean-Michel Maulpoix in fiction; Luciano Caruso, Constantin Frosin, Benone Pusca, and 
Eugen Simion in essays. 

Albino Pierro. Selected Poems. Trans. Luigi Bonaffini. Toronto: Guernica, 2002. Pp. 
174. The poems in this collection are written in the archaic Lucan dialect of Albino 
Pierro (1916-1995). 

Angela M. Jeannet. In forma di corona. Firenze: L’Autore Libri, 2001. Pp. 98. An 
emerita professor of Italian literature and author of many scholarly books and essays, 
Angela M. Jeannet publishes here a collection of poems she wrote throughout many 
years, reflecting on her Tuscan origins, French experiences, and adult life in the United 
States of America. 

Assunta Finiguerra. Résciddé (Scricciolo). Supplemento della rivista di poesie 
Pagine. Radici: Collana di poesia in dialetto. Preface by Achille Serao. Roma: Zone 
Editrice, 2001. Pp. 79. A collection of poetry in the dialect of San Fele with Italian 
translations. 

Maura Del Serra. Infinite Present. Selected Poems of Maura Del Serra. Trans. 
Emanuel Di Pasquale and Michael Palma. Crossings 12. Boca Raton, FL: 
Bordighera, 2002. Pp. 129. A collection of poetry by Del Serra with English 
translations. 

Kevin M. Cahill. Un ponte verso la pace. Roma: Editoriale Pantheon, 2001. Pp. 126. 
Essays on topics such as Nicaragua, Northern Ireland, Somalia, by the director of the 
Institute of International Humanitarian Affairs at Fordham University. 

A Sicilian Shakespeare. A Bilingual Edition of All His Sonnets. Trans. into Sicilian 
Renzo Porcelli. Preface Gaetano Cipolla. Brooklyn: Legas, 2001. Pp. 99. This 
collection contains 154 sonnets by Shakespeare, with English and Sicilian parallel texts, 
and a Sicilian-Italian-English glossary. 


ESPERIENZE LETTERARIE 


presenta 


ITALINEMO 


Riviste di italianistica nel mondo 


Direttore: Marco Santoro 
http://www. italinemo. it 


Che cosa ée Italinemo? 


Analisi, schedatura, indicizzazione delle riviste di italianistica 
pubblicate nel mondo a partire dal 2000. Abstract per ogni 
articolo. Ricerca incrociata per autori e titoli, per parole 
chiave, per nomi delle testate, per collaboratori. Profili 
biografici dei periodici e descrizione analitica di ciascun 
fascicolo. 


La consultazione del sito é gratuita 


Direzione 
Marco Santoro 
Universita di Roma “La Sapienza” 
Via Vicenza, 23 00185 Roma 


Tel. +39 06 44741439 
Fax +39 06 44741436 
marcosantoro@italinemo. it 


Segreteria 
Giuseppina Monaco - Antonella Orlandi segreteria@italinemo. it 


Dibattiti e discussioni 
forum@italinemo. it 


Iniziative e progetti in corso 
notizie@italinemo. it 









hes 3 Georges Rouault's etching, "Le dur métier de vivre" 
(from his series "Miserere et guerre"), a powerful assess- 
ment of human anguish and the intellectual's empathy 


' 


os for the common grief of humanity, is a poignant meta- 


i . 
: *., phor for the struggle of exile. 
: + 
phe oars, 
% re 
ie & 
” & 
ce 
# hs 
* the 2. & 
‘ ¥ e at a 
r « > arn : 
a ® ot 6. wey 
- 3 * % 
, ‘ “e 
a re we 
» % ye’ Se 
« * at &* * a 
os “ne ‘ : 
bc 6 
P . eS, ae .* ¥e \@ 
\ eet ‘ — ; “ . 
% . t. © ee eek. toe oh 
. \ % a ow ; Frye om j 
a ie < “ad . . +s 
% ‘ ‘ Pre shee Je ee cover design by Luigi Monga 
ws “a _ P ie * « ~ 4 » 
‘ ~~ » | ; gry. ww S , wit » we 


