Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


'\r 


>  /S1 


'T  .'• 


^ 


-■>  /'■ 


Nr^ 


wtirriA; 


I 


TtTBHOB 


Lj'snmtrt<>.»l2 


i 


libininiiniM^™ 


."....■iiltHllt«"'~ 


'r^j 


r\''' 


rS  jK, 


i 


J^  - 


,,.,1,111111    n    ,,.,,,,MM.,M,,,.,,|,, 


^llll!llil!!llllllll 


EEnmuinig 


iui:jii!iiiiiu;:;i[!1!i:jii;!I!i: 


y\^fwm 


•ii|MiMiii*<i«MiiHMniiMMiM*miriini<niiHMiiu«»niiiiHiiititH«MMi 


.^'    ^ 


^/^M 


aA 


^  r\. 


r^.  "■  -. 


i^  ^■'  '>- 


/  » 


■I 

•  J 


r- 


A^A 


OF  THE 


A  A 


♦.  -.1 


.^        \i' 


rN  ^ 


K^r 


iCi\ 


C\  '" 


^. 

/-N' 

^ 

.  » 

/~v 

r\ 

I 

/ 

s -s 


/:-  ' 


-N,    ,^ 


'  \ 


/^^^ 


4 


I 


AP 


^ 


6oY 


/ 


i 


i 

• 


ARABIAN  POETRY 


FOR 


•    « 
•  •    • 


ENGLISH    READERS. 


EDITED,     WITH   INTRODUCTION    AND    NOTES, 


BY 


The  Arabian  Poets  were  the  historians  and  moraJists  of  the  age ;  and  if 
they  sympathised  with  the  prejudices,  they  inspired  and  crowned  the  virtues 
of  their  countrymen :  the  indissoluble  union  of  genero^ty  and  valour  was  the 
darling  theme  of  their  song. — Gibbon. 


GLASGOW: 

PRIVATELY    PRINTED. 

MDCCCLXXXI. 


Edition  : 
Small-paper^     -        -    joo  Copies, 
Lar^'papeTy     -        -      70  Copies, 


M'LAKEN  and  SOX,  PRINTKKS,  50  N^ELLISGIWN  STREET,  GLAS^yV, 


PREFACE. 

IHE  history  of  the  present  volume  is 
soon  told.  I  was  engaged  in  collecting 
material  for  illustration  of  the  migra- 
tions and  transformations  of  Popular 
European  Tales  and  Fictions,  and,  in  the  course  of 
my  researches,  had  occasion  to  consult  the  works 
of  Sir  William  Jones,  where  meeting  with  his  transla- 
tion of  the  Mu'allaqat,  or  Seven  Ancient  Arabic 
Prize  Poems,  the  idea  occurred  to  me  that  a  reprint 
of  it  would  be  acceptable  to  a  few  personal  friends, 
interested  in  Asiatic  literature.  The  project  was 
readily  approved;  and  it  was  suggested  that  these 
Poems  might  be  interesting  to  a  larger  section  of 
English  readers.  A  tentative  Prospectus  was  then 
issued,  proposing  to  privately  reprint  Sir  W.  Jones' 
translation  of  the  Mu'allaqat  and  Carlyle's  Speciiiuns 
of  Arabian  Podry.  This  proposal  met  with  svipport, 
not  only  from  English  scholars  and  public  libraries, 
but  from  many  distinguished  Orientalists ;  and  it 
was  resolved  to  add  to  the  volume  a  selection  from 
the  Poetiy  contained  in  Hamilton's  translation  of 
part  of  the  famous  Arabian  Romance  of  'Antar.  The 
connecting  of  these  selections  with  an  outline  of  the 


iv.  PREFACE. 


leading  incidents  of  the  Romance  was  an  afterthought 
Even  if  Hamilton's  volumes  were  readily  accessible, 
which  they  are  not,  few  mere  English  readers  would 
care  to  go  through  his  diffuse  translation,  which  is 
rendered  more  unreadable  by  the  magnificent  poetry 
being  printed  without  a  break,  often  for  two  or  more 
pages  together.  But  the  Epitome  included  in  this 
volume  will  perhaps  satisfy  the  curiosity  of  readers 
generally  regarding,  a  work  of  which  assuredly  a 
complete  English  translation  will  never  be  attempted. 

The  Shorter  Arabian  Poems,  translated  by 
Dr.  Carlyle,  and  entitled,  **  Specimens  of  Arabian 
Poetry" — first  published  in  1796,  and  again  in  1810 — 
are  confessedly  paraphrases  in  English  verse  rather 
than  translations.  The  selections,  together  with  the 
translator's  anecdotal  notices  of  some  of  the  authors, 
furnish,  nevertheless,  a  concise  history  of  Arabian 
literature  during  the  most  flourishing  period  of  the 
Muslim  empire. 

But  this  volume  must  possess  an  interest  and  value 
far  beyond  what  might  otherwise  possibly  attach  to  it, 
in  containing  the  famous  Burda  Poems  of  K'ab  and 
El-Busiri,  which  are  here  presented  for  the  first  time 
in  English,  by  Mr.  J.  W.  Redhouse,  whose  high 
reputation  for  scholarship  will  be  a  sufficient  guarantee 
to  the  English  reader  that  the  translations  are  as 
accurate  as  it  is  possible  to  render  such  enigmatical 
compositions  into  our  language. 

It  may  perhaps  be  thought  somewhat  strange 
that  a  mere  English  scholar — ^for  my  knowledge  of 


PREFACE.  T. 


Arabic  is  as  '^nothing,  and  less  than  nothing,  and 
vanity " — should  have  undertaken  the  task  of  editing 
a  thesaurus  of  Arabian  Poetry.  But  the  original  plan 
was  very  simple;  and,  to  be  perfectly  candid,  I 
thought  myself  not  altogether  incompetent  to  judge  of 
what  would  likely  be  of  interest  to  intelligent  English 
readers.  How  the  task  has  been  performed,  readers 
will,  of  course,  decide  for  themselves. 

The  want  of  uniformity  in  the  spelling  of  Arabic 
proper  names  in  the  several  sections  of  the  book  is 
thus  explained:  Sir  W.  Jones'  translation  of  the 
Mu'allaqat  is  reprinted  literatim  as  well  as  verbatim; 
and  the  same  has  been  done  in  the  case  of  Carlyle 
and  others  whose  translations  have  been  reproduced. 
Nearly  every  English  Arabist  of  eminence  has  his  own 
pet  system  of  transliteration;  and  where  doctors  differ, 
who  shall  decide?  In  the  Introduction,  however,  I 
have  generally  adopted  Mr.  Redhouse's  system,  confi- 
dent that  in  So  doing  I  followed  a  safe  guide. 

The  subjects  of  the  Introduction  are  necessarily 
treated  with  brevity :  the  volume  exceeds  in  bulk  by 
two-thirds  the  limit  originally  proposed;  but  the 
Appendix  Notes  will  be  found  to  supply  much  of 
what  may  appear  wanting  in  the  introductory  matter. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  gratefully  acknowledge 
the  valuable  help  which  Mr.  Redhouse  has  rendered 
me  in  the  course  of  my  work :  I  had  but  to  make 
known  to  him  my  difficulties  in  order  to  have  them 
promptly  removed;  but  all  the  shortcomings  and 
blunders  must  be  ascribed  to  myself  alone. 


J 


vi.  PREFACE. 


I  have  also  to  express  my  best  thanks  to  all  who 
have  supported  this  humble  attempt  to  popularise 
Arabian  Poetry  among  English  readers.  By  members 
of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society  generally  the  project 
has  been  warmly  encouraged;  and — although  it  can 
add  nothing  to  their  reputation — it  affords  me  great 
pleasure  to  record  that  Mr.  William  Piatt,  Colonel 
W.  Nassau  Lees,  Sir  William  Muir,  Professor  E.  B. 
Cowell,  of  Cambridge,  Rev.  Professor  R.  Gandell, 
of  Oxford,  Professor  W.  Wright,  of  Cambridge, 
Rev.  Professor  W.  P.  Dickson,  and  Rev.  Professor 
James  Robertson,  both  of  Glasgow  University,  were 
among  the  foremost  to  kindly  express  an  interest  in 
this  little  enterprise.  I  can  but  regret  that  the  result, 
as  here  presented,  should  fall  so  far  short  of  what 
it  might  have  been  in  abler  hands. 

It  only  remains  to  add,  that,  in  die  course  of  this 
work,  much  out-of-the-way  information  had  to  be 
sought  for,  and  I  must  have  sorely  tried  the  courtesy 
of  my  obliging  friends :  Mr.  J.  T.  Clark,  of  the  Advo- 
cates' Library,  Edinburgh ;  Mr.  James  Lymbum,  of 
the  Glasgow  University  Library;  and  Mr.  F.  T.  Barrett, 
of  the  Mitchell  Publift  Library,  Glasgow ;  who  afforded 
me  all  the  assistance  in  their  power — directing  my 
attention  to  little-known  works,  and  furnishing  me 
with  useful  bibliographical  notes. 

W.  A.  CLOUSTON. 

Glasgow,  December y  1880. 


THE    FRONTISPIECE. 

This  is  a  lithographed  reproduction,  in  facsimile  (but  only  in 
black  and  white),  of  a  page  of  a  beautifully  written  and  splendidly 
illuminated  Arabic  manuscript  volume,  in  the  possession  of 
Mr.  £.  J.  W.  Gibb,  whose  translation  of  Mesihi's  Ode  on  Spring 
enriches  the  Appendix  to  the  present  work.  The  page  contains 
the  eleven  first  couplets  of  £l'Busiri*s  celebrated  Qasida  (Poem, 
or  rather,  Hymn)  in  praise  of  Muhammad,  of  which  an  English 
translation,  by  Mr.  J.  W.  Redhouse,  will  be  found  in  pages 
319-341.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  state,  what  almost  every 
English  reader  must  already  know,  that  Arabic,  like  most 
Oriental  languages,  is  written  from  right  to  left ;  but  it  may  be 
explained  that  the  space  in  the  centre  of  the  page  separates 
the  first  and  second  hemistichs  of  each  verse.  For  example :  tbb 
first  couplet  is  contained  in  the  /Srst  line,  at  the  top  of  each 
column ;  the  secon4  couplet,  in  the  second  line  of  eack  column ; 
and  so  on,  reading  across  the  central  division.  Mr.  Redhouse 
has  favoured  me  with  a  transliteration  of  this  page  (not  every 
Arabist  can  correctly  read  any  Arabic  manuscript),  and  a  trans- 
lation of  the  titles  and  the  customary  invocation.  The  titles  of  the 
poem  and  of  the  first  section,  at  the  top  of  the  page,  are : 

qasidaimu  htrtUUun  fashtn  fi  ta^dUi  ^H'fia/si 

A  Poem;  a  Mantle.    A  Section  on  the  Justification 

of  the  Carnal  Man. 

Then  follows  the  invocation  which  is  invariably  placed  at  the 
beginning  of  every  Muslim  composition,  whether  secular  or 
religious : 

di  'smi  *lldhi  ^r-raAmdm  ^r'rahimi 

In  the  name  of  GoD,  the  Most  Merdfiil, 
the  All-Compassionate. 

Our  old  European  authors  in  like  manner  always  headed  their 


viiL  THE  FRONTISPIECE. 


writings  with  the  sign  of  the  cross,  +.  Thus,  in  the  King^s 
Quair,  by  James  I.,  of  Scotland : 

And  forthwithal  my  pen  in  hand  I  took, 
And  made  a  + ,  and  thus  b^;an  my  book. 

Modem  Christians  do  not  so  literally  follow  the  scriptural 
injunction :  *'  In  all  thy  ways  acknowledge  Him,  and  He  shall 
direct  thy  paths.*'    But  with  Muslims  it  is  no  empty  form. 

The  English  reader  will  be  interested  in  observing,  in  the 
following  four  first  couplets  of  El-Biism's  Poem,  in  italic 
characters,  the  movement  of  the  qasida  rhyme : 

1  e  min  tezekkuri  jlrdmin  H  dhi-selemi 

maejta  tUm'an  jerh  min  muqUtin  H  (Umi 

2  eni  hebeii  ^r-rthu  min  tOqdH  katzimdin 

wa  ewmadxa  ^l-barqu  ft  ^tz-tzalma^i  min  idsami 

^/a  mti  U  ^ayney-ke'in  quUa  ^kfufh  hemeth 
wa  mh  li  qalbi'ke  in  quUa  ^stefiq  yehimi 

4  e  yahsibu  *S'Sabbu  enna  ^l-hubha  munkeh'mun 
md  beyna  munsefimin  min-ku  wa  mudztarimi 

The  two  halves  of  the  first  distich,  as  above,  rhyme ;  and  tlie 

final  syllable  {mt)  of  the  second  half  of  every  succeeding  distich, 

to  the  end  of  the  poem,  is  the  same  as  those  of  the  hemistichs  of 

the  opening  verse. 

W.  A.  C. 


1 


CONTENTS. 


INTRODUCTION. 

I.  The  Ancient  Arabs 

II.  The  Mu'allaqat,  or  Seven  Prize  Poems  - 

III.  Genuineness  of  Early  Arabic  Poetry 

IV.  Arabian  Literature  under  the  Khalifate 


PAGE 

xvii. 

xxxL 

Ix. 

Ixvi. 


THE  MOALLAKAT.    Translated  by  Sir  W.  Jones. 

The  Poem  op  Amriolkais 3 

The  Poem  of  Tarapa 15 

The  Poem  of  Zohair 29 

The  Poem  of  Lebeid 39 

The  Poem  of  Antara 52 

The  Poem  of  Amru 64 

The  Poem  of  Hareth 79 


SHORTER  POEMS.    Translated  by  J.  D.  Carlyle,  B.D. 


On  the  Tomb  of  Mano 

On  the  Tomb  of  Sayid     - 

On  the  Death  of  his  Mistress 

On  Avarice 

On  the  Battle  of  Sabia      - 

To  a  kindred  Tribe,  &c.    - 

On  his  Friends  - 

On  Temj)er       -        -        . 

The  Song  of  Maisuna 


•  Hassan  Alaseufy  95 

Ahd  AlmaUc  AlharUhy  96 

Abu  Saher  98 

Hatem  Tax  99 

Jaafer  Ben  Alba  loi  • 

Alfddhd  Ibn  Alohas  102 

Meskin  Aldaramy  103 

Nabegat  Beni  Jdid  104 

-        .        -  105 


z. 


CONTENTS. 


SHORTER  VOR'ULS-^inUitmed, 

Verses  of  Yezid  to  his  Father,  Mo'awiah   • 
On  Fatalism      ....      The  Imam  Shafay 
To  the  Khalif  Haroun  Alrashid     Ibrahim  Ben  Adhem 
Inauguration  of  Haroun  Alrashid,  &c.  Isaac  Almausely 


PAGE 

07 


On  the  Ruin  of  the  Barmecides 

Epigram  on  Taher  Ben  Hosein 

The  Adieu 

Verses  to  his  Mistress 

To  a  Female  Cupbearer     - 

Extempore  Songs 

To  a  Lady  Weeping 


Ahu  Mohammed 

Abu  Teman  Habib 

Abd  Alsalam 

Mashdud^  Rakeek^  and  Rais 

Ebn  Alrumi 


-  Ibid, 

-  Ibid. 

•  AH  Ben  Ahmed 


On  a  Valetudinarian 

On  a  Miser       -        -        -        - 

To  Cassim  Obid  Allah      - 

To  a  Friend,  on  his  Birthday 

On  a  Cat,  &c.  ...  Ibn  Alalaf  Alnaharwany 
Epigram  on  Ebn  Naphta-Wah     Mohammed  Ben  Zeid 

Fire  :  a  Riddle 

To  a  Lady,  on  seeing  her  blush  Khalif  Radhi  Billah 
On  the  Vicissitudes  of  Life         •  Ibid, 

To  a  Dove        ....  Serage  Ahoarak 

On  a  Thunder-storm  -        -  Ibrahim  Ben  Khiret 

To  his  Favourite  Mistress  -  -  SuUan  SaifAddaulet 
On  the  Crucifixion  of  Ebn  Bakiah  -  Abu  Hassan 
On  the  Caprices  of  Fortune       Sultan  Shems  Almaaii 

Life 

To  Leila 

On  the  Sultan  Carawash,  &c.     -       Ebn  Alramacram 

On  the  Death  of  a  Son      •        -  AH  Ben  Mohammed 

On  Moderation  in  our  Pleasures        •     Ebn  Tabataba 

On  the  Vale  of  Bozaa 

To  Adversity    -        -        -        - 

Incompatibility  of  Pride  and  True  Glory      Abu  Alola 

On  the  Death  of  Nedham  Almolk        Shebal  Addauiet 


Ahmed  Ben  Yousef 
Sultan  Carawash 


08 
09 

II 
12 

15 

16 

20 
21 

21' 
22 

23 

24 
26 

27 
28 
29 
30  x^ 

3> 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 '^ 

42 


CONTENTS, 


XI. 


SHORTER  VOEMS^Comtimad. 

FAGS 

Veraes  to  some  Young  Men,  &c.      Princess  IVaiadaia  143 

Verses  to  his  Daughters     •        -         Sultan  of  Seville  144 

To  his  Sleeping  Mistress  -        -  AH  Ben  Abd  Algany  146 

The  Inconsistent 147 

On  the  Capture  of  Jerusalem   Almcdkafer  Alahiwerdy  148 
To  a  Lady,  who  accused  her  Lover  of  Flattery  •        -150 

.Epigram  on  Abu  Alchair  Selamu,  a  Physician   -        *  151 

To  a  Little  Man  with  a  large  Beard    Isaac  Ben  Kkalif  152 

Lamiat  Alajem Al  Tosgrai  153 

To  Youth EbnAlmbia  163 

On  Love           -        •        Abu  AU^  the  Mathematician  163 

Remonstrance  with  a  Drunkard      Yahia  Ben  Salamet  164 

Verses  to  a  Lady       -        -        •       Khalif  Almoktafi  165 

On  Procrastination    .        -        •        .    Jbn  Altalmith  166 

Early  Death  of  Abu  Alhassan  Ali      •     CanuU  Eddin  167 

The  Interview  (with  Music  annexed)  -        .        .        -  168 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR :  an  Epitome, 

Editor's  Preface 171 

From  the  Translator's  Preface       -       -       -  i77 

The  Hero's  Birth  and  Early  Years    •        -        -        -  183 

The  Dawn  of  Love 186 

Early  Warlike  Exploits 189 

Antar  and  Abla's  Mother 193 

Antar  offends  his  Father 194 

How  Antar  obtained  his  horse  Abjer         •        -        -  195 

A  Bridal  Party  Attacked  -        -        .  •        -  196 

Plots  against  the  Hero 199 

Antar  rescues  his  Father  and  Uncles         ...  202 

A  Gallant  Knight  of  Mazin 203 

How  Antar  found  the  Sword  Dhami  ...  204 

Rescue  of  the  Tribe  of  Mazin 207 

Another  Suitor  for  Abla 209 


Xll. 


CONTENTS. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR— Continued, 

PAGE 

Battle  of  the  Tribes  of  Abs  and  Tey— Antar  to  the 

Rescue ! 210 

Antar  proclaimed  Champion  of  Abs  .        -        -        -  213 

Antar's  Expedition  for  the  Asafeer  Camels         -        -  214 

The  Satrap  Khosrewan  sent  to  chastise  Monzar  •        -  219 

Combat  of  Antar  and  Khosrewan      ...        -  220 

Antar  at  the  Court  of  Chosroe 222 

Abla*s  Trials  during  Antar's  absence  ...  235 

Abla  and  her  Family  rescued  by  Antar      -        •        -  239 

The  Hero's  reception  by  his  Tribe    -        -        -        -  241 

Antar's  grief  for  the  loss  of  Abla        ....  242 

Shiboob  brings  tidings  of  Abla 243 

Antar  rescues  his  Beloved 247 

Antar  goes  to  Mecca 252 

Prince  Shas  in  captivity 255 

Antar  summoned  from  Mecca  to  rescue  Prince  Shas  -  256 
The  Hero  encounters  Roudha,  a  gallant  horseman, 

going  a-wooing  to  Abla 258 

Antar  undertakes  another  enterprise  for  Abla's  sake  -  260 

Story  of  Jaida  and  Khalid 261 

Antar  in  the  Land  of  Zebeed 263 

Address  to  the  Turtle-Dove 264 

The  matrimonial  schemes  of  Abla's  Father  again  come 

to  naught 265 

Shiboob  in  masquerade  at  the  tents  of  Kendeh  -        -  267 

Attempted  murder  of  Abla 270 

The  Hero  quits  his  Tribe  - 271 

Numan  King  of  Hirah  makes  War  against  King 

2^heir — ^the  Hero  saves  his  country    •        -        -  272 

Prince  Hareth  in  Love 280 

King  Zoheir  and  his  Brother  Asyed  -        -        -        -  281 

Death  of  Prince  Shas  and  King  Zoheir      ...  284 

King  Cais  avenges  his  Father's  Death       •        -        -  285 

Abla's  Father  and  Brother  again  rescued  by  Antar     -  285 


CONTENTS. 


Xlll. 


THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR— CVii/iWir«/. 

A  Horse  Race,  and  its  consequences 
Prince  Malik's  Marriage  and  Death  - 
Amarah  lampooned  by  the  Girls 
Marriage  of  Antar  and  Abla 
The  Death  of  Antar  - 


KA*B»S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 
Translated  by  J.  W.  Redhouse,  Esq. 

EL-BUSIRfs  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 
Translated  by  J.  W.  Redhouse,  Esq. 


PAGE 

287 
28S 
291 

293 
296 


-    305 


319 


APPENDIX. 

The  Lay  of  the  Himyarites     -       -       -  345 

The  Poet  *Omar 356 

On  the  Prosody  of  the  Arabs        -      -  364 

Notes  on  the  Moallakat. 

Amriolkais 373 

Tarafa 376 

ZOHEIR 379 

Lebeid 382 

Antara 392 

Amru 396 

Hareth 401 

Notes  on  Shorter  Poems    -      -  -405 

Notes  on  the  Romance  of  Antar. 

Public  Reciters  of  Romances  in  the  East  436 

Characters  of  the  Romance  of  Antar    -  437 

The  Hero's  Birth  and  Early  Years      -        -        -  439 

The  Maidens*  Festival 439 


XIY. 


CONTENTS. 


hWlS.^TilX— Continued. 


PAGE 


Notes  on  the  Romance  of  AxcrKSL—Continued, 


MesHii's  Ode  on  Spring 

*Adite  Helmets  -        -        -        - 

The  Sword  Dhami     - 

Combat  of  Antara  and  the  Satrap 

Antara  at  the  Persian  Court 

Antara  and  the  Wrestler    - 

Jaida,  the  Female  Warrior 

Death  of  King  Zoheir 

A  Horse  Race,  &c.     -        -        - 

Illustrations  of  the  Poetry 

Notes  on  Ka'b's  Mantle  Poem 


Notes  on  El-Busiri's  Mantle  Poem 
The  L  Poem  of  the  Foreigner 

(Lamiyyatu-*l-*Ajam,  by  Et-Tugra'i), 
Translated  by  J.  W.  Redhouse,  Esq. 


440 

443 

443 

444 

445 
446 

446 

447 

447 

447 

459 
462 


-  468 


INTRODUCTION. 


r 


An  indescribable  charm  surrounds  the  early  poetry 
of  the  Arabs.  Dwelling  in  the  wonderful  creations  of 
their  genius  with  these  ancient  poets^  you  live^  as  it 
werCy  a  netv  life,  Cities^  gardens^  villages^  the  trace  of 
even  fields^  left  far  out  of  sights  you  get  away  into  the 
free  atmosphere  of  the  desert;  and — the  trammels 
and  conventionalities  of  settled  society  cast  aside— you 
roam  with  the  poet  over  the  varied  domain  of 
Nature  in  all  its  freshness,  artlessnessy  and 
freedom. — Sir  William  Muir,  K.C.S.I.,  LL.D. 


INTRODUCTION. 


I.— THE  ANCIENT  ARABS. 

IN  the  modern  history  of  the  world,  no  race 
or  natioD  has  figured  so  lafgely,  or  so 
widely  and  permanently  influenced  the 
destinies  of  mankind,  as  the  race  of 
shepherds,  dwelling  in  tents,  who  have  occupied 
the  peninsula  of  Arabia  almost  since  the  Deluge. 
Roused,  from  ihe  fatal  lethargy  of  the  gross  idolatry 
into  which  they  had  long  been  sunk,  by  the 
enthusiasm  of  one  man,  who  substituted  for  their 
vain  superstitions  the  simple  but  sublime  formula 
of  belief,  "  There  is  but  one  sole  God,"  in  the 
space  of  less  than  a  hundred  years  these  people 
had  ovemin  and  conquered  a  great  part  of  the 
then  known  world,  which  they  held  subject  for 
several  centuries,  until,  in  their  turn,  they  had  to 
yield  to  more  vigorous  races.  But  wherever  the 
Muslim  gained  footing,  there  his  footprints  are  still 
to  be  seen ;  and  the  influence  of  the  enlightened 
descendants  of  the  first  Arabian  conquerors,  who 
gave  the  nations  the  choice  of  the  Qur'an  or  the 


^ 


xviii.  INTRODUCTION. 


scimitar,   remains   in   European   arts,   sciences,  and 
literature  to  this  day. 

The  early  history  of  the  Arabs,  like  that  of  other 
very  ancient  nations,  is  involved  in  great  obscurity. 
Their  country,  or  most  part  of  it,  seems  from  remote 
antiquity  to  have  been  called  ^Ariba^  a  name  which 
it  still  retains.  Regarding  the  origin  of  this  name 
learned  men  differ  in  opinion.  According  to  some, 
the  name  of  ^Ariba  was  derived  from  ^Arba^  a  district 
of  Tamana,  where  Ishmael  dwelt ;  others  say  there 
was  a  town  of  this  name  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Makka.  Tradition  asserts  that  the  name  was  derived 
from  Ya'rub  son  of  Qahtan,  or  Joktan,  the  grandson 
of  Eber ;  while  certain  learned  Hebraists  would  have 
it  to  be  of  Hebrew  original,  since  the  term  araba  in 
that  language  signifies  west,  and  in  the  Scriptures  the 
western  part  of  the  peninsula  is  called  eretz  arab,  or 
freb — the  western  country. 

Ptolemy*s  division  of  Arabia  into  the  "  Stony,"  the 
**  Desert,"  and  the  "  Happy'*  was  altogether  unknown 
to  the  Arabs  themselves.  The  best  Oriental  writers 
divide  the  peninsula  into  five  provinces  or  king- 
doms, namely  :  Yaman  ;  Hijaz  j  Tahama  ;  Najd  ; 
and  Yamama.  Of  these  the  two  first  call  for  special 
notice. 

The  province  of  Yaman  has  always  been  famed 
for  the  fertility  of  its  soil,  and  the  mildness 
of  its  climate,  which  seems  to  realise  the  dreams 
of  the  poets  in  being  a  perpetual  Spring.  "  The 
beauties  of  Yemen,"  says  Sir  W.  Jones,  **  are  proved 


THE  ANCIENT  ARABS.  xix 


by  the  concurrent  testimony  of  all  travellers,  by  the 
descriptions  of  it  in  all  the  writings  of  Asia,  and  by 
the  nature  and  situation  of  the  country  itself,  which  lies 
between  the  eleventh  and  fifteenth  degrees  of  northern 
latitude,  under  a  serene  sky,  and  exposed  to  the  most 
favourable  influence  of  the  sun :  it  is  enclosed  on  one 
side  by  vast  rocks  and  deserts,  and  defended  on  the 
other  by  a  tempestuous  sea ;  so  that  it  seems  to  have 
been  designed  by  Providence  for  the  most  secure  as 
well  as  the  most  beautiful  region  of  the  East     Its 
principal  cities  are :    Sanaa,   usually  considered   as 
its  metropolis;   Zebid,  a  commercial  town,  that  lies 
in  a  large  plain  near  the  Sea  of  Omin ;  and  Aden, 
surroimded  with  pleasant  gardens  and  woods.      It 
is  observable  that  Aden^  in  the  Eastern  dialects,  is 
precisely  the  same  word  with  Eden^  which  we  apply 
to  the  garden   of   Paradise.      It    has    two    senses, 
according  to  a  slight  difference  in  its  pronunciation  : 
its  first  meaning  is,  a  settled  abode;  its  second,  delight^ 
softness^  or  tranquillity.    The  word  Eden  had  probably 
one  of  these  senses  in  the  sacred  text,  though  we  use 
it  as  a  proper  name.     We  may  also  observe  that 
Yemen    itself   takes    its   name  from  a  word  which 
signifies   verdure   and  felicity;    for  in  those  sultry 
climates,  the  freshness  of  the  shade  and  the  cool- 
ness of  water  are  ideas  almost  inseparable  from  that 
of  happiness ;  and  this  may  be  a  reason  why  most  of 
the  Oriental  nations  agree  in  a  tradition  concerning 
a  delightful  spot  where  the  first  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  were  placed  before  their  fall.     The  ancients. 


INTRODUCTION, 


who  gave  the  name  of  Eudaimon^  or  Happy,  to  this 
country,  either  meant  to  translate  the  word  Yemen^ 
or,  more  probably  only  alluded  to  the  valuable  spice 
trees  and  balsamic  plants  that  grow  in  it,  and,  without 
speaking  poetically,  give  a  real  perfume  to  the  air." 
Such  a  charming  land  and  climate  may  well  be 
supposed  to  have  been  the  seat  of  pastoral  poetry; 
and,  indeed,  the  best  poets  which  ancient  Arabia 
produced  were  those  of  Yaman. 

The  province  of  Hijaz  is  so  named,  either  because 
it  divides  Najd  from  Tahama,  or  because  it  is  sur- 
rounded by  mountains.  Its  principal  cities,  Makka 
and  Madlna,  are  most  sacred  in  the  estimation  of 
every  Muslim.  Makka  is  the  Qiblay  or  place  in  the 
direction  of  which  Muslims  everywhere  turn  their  faces 
in  prayer:  it  contains  the  Sacred  Ka'ba,  or  Cubical 
House, — the  Baytu-lldh,  or  House  of  God — ^whither 
flock  unnumbered  pilgrims  from  all  parts  of  the  world 
of  Islam  once  every  year;*  and  the  sacred  well, 
Zem  Zem — the  self-same  well,  saith  tradition,  near 
which  Hagar  sat  with  her  son  Ishmael  when  she 
was  comforted  by  the  angel.     Moreover,  Makka  is 

*  According  to  Arab  tradition,  Abraham  built  the  first  Ka'ba 
on  the  same  spot  where  the  present  building  stands.  Muslim 
writers  go  farther,  and  say  that  Adam  himself  erected  a  temple 
there,  and  that  it  was  built  and  rebuilt  ten  times.  (For  a  full 
description  and  history  of  the  Ka'ba,  see  Burton's  Pilgrimage  to 
d'Medinah  and  Meccahy  vol.  iii.,  chapter  xxvi.)  Putting  idle 
legends  aside,  the  antiquity  of  the  Ka*ba  reaches  far  beyond  the 
Christian  era  :  we  learn  from  Greek  writers  that  the  Temple  at 
Makka  had  been  visited  by  pilgrims  time  out  of  mind. 


\^ 


THE  ANCIENT  ARABS.  xxi. 

the  birthplace  of  Muhammad.  £1-Madina — "the 
city/'  emphatically — was  called  Yathrub  before  the 
Prophet  retreated  thither  :  it  contains  his  tomb,  which 
is,  of  course,  also  visited  by  the  devout 

Oriental  writers  divide  the  inhabitants  of  Arabia  into 
two  classes :  the  old  lost  Arabs,  descended  from  'Ad 
and  Thamud  (who  were  destroyed  by  God  because 
of  their  imbelief),  and  others  famous  in  tradition; 
and  the  present  Arabs,  who  are  sprung  from  two 
different  stocks :  Qahtan,  the  same  with  Joktan  the 
son  of  Eber,  the  fourth  in  descent  from  Noah ;  and 
'Adnan,  who  was  descended  in  a  direct  line  from 
Ishmael,  the  son  of  Abraham  and  Hagar.*  Those 
descended  from  Qahtan  are  called  ^at-ArdbU'l-ariba^ 
genuine  or  pure  Arabs  (some  authors,  however,  con- 
sider the  old  lost  tribes  as  the  only  piure  Arabs) ; 
those  from  'Adnan,  ^al-^Arabu-H-musta^riha^  naturalised 
or  insititious  Arabs. — For  several  centuries  many 
of  the  Arabian  tribes  were  under  the  government  of 
the  descendants  of  Qahtan :  Ya*rub,  one  of  his 
sons,  having  founded  the  kingdom  of  Yaman,  and 
Jurhum,  another  son,  that  of  Hijaz. 

"  The  perpetual  independence  of  the  Arabs,"  says 
Gibbon,  ''has  been  the  theme  of  praise  among 
strangers  and  natives;  and  the  arts  of  controversy 
transform  this  singular  event  into  a  prophecy  and  a 
miracle,  in  favour  of  the  posterity  of  Ishmael.     Some 


*  From  the  uncertainty  of  the  descents  between  Ishmael  and 
'Adnan,  the  Arabs  of  this  stock  usually  reckon  their  genealogies 
no  higher  than  'Adnan. 


-r 


xxii.  INTRODUCTION, 


exceptions,  that  can  neither  be  dissembled  nor  eluded, 
render  this  mode  of  reasoning  as  indiscreet  as  it  is 
superfluous :  the  kingdom  of  Yemen  has  been  success- 
ively subdued  by  the  Abyssinians,  the  Persians,  the 
Sultans  of  Egypt,  and  the  Turks ;  the  holy  cities  of 
Mecca  and  Medina  have  repeatedly  bowed  under 
a  Scythian  tyrant ;    and  the    Roman    province    of 
Arabia  embraced   the  peculiar  ^vnldemess  in  which 
Ishmael  and  his  sons  must  have  pitched  their  tents 
in  the  face  of  their  brethren.     Yet  these  exceptions 
are  temporary  or  local ;  the  body  of  the  nation  has 
escaped  the  yoke  of  the  most  powerful  monarchies : 
the  arms  of  Sesostris  and  Cyrus,  of  Pompey  and 
Trajan,  could  never  achieve  the  conquest  of  Arabia ; 
the  present  sovereign  of  the  Turks  may  exercise  a 
shadow  of  jurisdiction,  but  his  pride  is  reduced  to 
solicit  the  friendship  of  a  people  whom  it  is  dangerous 
to   provoke  and  fniitless  to  attack.      The  obvious 
causes  of  their  freedom  are  inscribed  on  the  char- 
acter and  country  of  the  Arabs.     Many  ages  before 
Mahomet,  their  intrepid  valour  had  been  severely 
felt  by  their  neighbours  in  offensive  and  defensive 
war.     The  patient  and  active  virtues  of  a  soldier  are 
insensibly  nursed  in  the  habits  and  discipline  of  a 
pastoral  life.    The  care  of  the  sheep  and  camels  is 
abandoned  to  the  women  of  the  tribe ;  but  the  martial 
youth,  under  the  banner  of  the  emir,  is  ever  on  horse- 
back and  in  the  field,  to  practise  the  exercise  of  the 
bow,  the  javelin,  and  the  scimitar.    The  long  memory 
of  their   independence  is  the  firmest  pledge  of  its 


V 


THE  ANCIENT  ARABS.  xxiii. 

perpetuity ;  and  succeeding  generations  are  animated 
to  prove  their  descent  and  to  maintain  their  inherit- 
ance." .^ 

The  religion  of  most  of  the  Arabs  before  the 
time  of  Muhammad  was  rank  idolatry.  The  Sabian 
religion — worship  of  the  sun,  the  fixed  stars,  and  the 
planets,  and  of  angete  and  towar  intelligences — overran 
the  whole  nation,  although  there  also  existed  among 
them  a  considerable  number  of  Christians,  Jews,  and 
Magians.  It  was  perhaps  natural  for  the  Arabs  to  be 
led  into  the  worship  of  the  celestial  luminaries :  a 
pastoral  life  requiring  continual  observation  of  their 
motions,  in  order  to  forecast  changes  of  the  weather, 
they  would  be  very  easily  induced  to  ascribe  the 
blessing  of  rain  to  a  divine  power  that  resided  in 
them.  The  constellations,  which  divide  the  zodiac 
into  twenty-eight  parts,  through  one  of  which  the 
moon  passes  every  night,  were  called  atvwSy  or 
the  Houses  of  the  Moon.  In  the  Temple  of  Makka 
were  360  idols,  one  for  each  day  of  their  year; 
of  these  the  chief  were  Lat  and  *Uzza,  by  which 
they  were  wont  to  swear,  though  such  an  oath  was 
not  considered  so  binding  as  the  following,  from 
which  it  will  be  seen  that,  besides  their  imaginary 
deities,  they  also  believed  in  a  supreme  God  :  **  I 
swear,  by  Him  who  rendered  the  lofty  mountains 
immovable,  the  Giver  of  life  and  death,  that  I  will 
never  betray  you,  either  in  word  or  in  deed."  If  a 
man  broke  this  oath,  the  same  day  he  would  bark 
like  a  dog,  and  the  fiesh  would  fall  oif  his  bones. 


tC 


xxiv.  INTRODUCTION. 

Some  tribes  believed  in  a  future  state,  and  when  a 
warrior  died  his  camel  was  tied  to  his  grave  and  there 
left  to  perish,  in  order  that  its  master  should  ride  it  on 
the  Day  of  Reckoning,  as  befitted  his  rank ;  others 
had  no  faith  either  in  a  past  creation  or  a  resurrection, 
ascribing  the  origin  of  all  things  to  nature  and  their 
dissolution  to  age.  But,  for  the  most  part,  the  pagan 
Arabs  concerned  themselves  but  little  as  to  their 
future  destiny — content  if  their  daily  wants  were 
supplied,  they  hardly  looked  beyond  the  present. 

Of  their  virtues  and  their  vices  much  may  be 
learned  from  the  reliques  of  their  ancient  poetry. 
Hospitality  was  greatly  esteemed  among  them,  while 
avarice,  in  men,  was  held  in  supreme  contempt  I'he 
bitterest  taunt  by  one  tribe  to  another  was  to  say 
that  their  men  had  not  the  heart  to  give,  nor  their 
women  to  deny:  men  being  esteemed  for  liberality 
and  courage;  women,  for  parsimony  and  beauty.  The 
fires  which  they  kindled  on  the  tops  of  hills,  and 
kept  burning  during  the  night,  to  guide  travellers  to 
their  tents,  and  hence  called  "  hospitality  £res,"  are 
often  referred  to  in  their  early  poetry.  But  their 
system  of  morals,  observes  Sir  W.  Jones,  "  generous 
and  enlarged  as  it  seems  to  have  been  in  the  minds  of 
a  few  illustrious  chiefs,*  was  on  the  whole  miserably 
4epraved  for  a  century  at  least  before  Muhammad : 


*  Hatim,  chief  of  the  tribe  of  Ta'i,  and  Hasn,  of  the  tribe  of 
Fazara,  are  greatly  celebrated  for  their  profuse  hospitality.  The 
name  of  Hatim  is  still  synonymous  in  the  East  with  the  utmost 
liberality. 


\ 


THE  ANCIENT  ARABS,  xxv. 


the  distinguishing  virtues  which  they  boasted  of 
inculcating  and  practising  were,  a  contempt  of  riches 
and  even  of  death/'  but  in  the  age  immediately  before 
the  time  of  the  Prophet,  "  their  liberality  had  deviated 
into  mad  profusion,  their  courage  into  ferocity,  and 
their  patience  into  an  obstinate  spirit  of  encountering 
fruitless  dangers." 

The  general  mode  of  life  of  the  tent-dwelling  pagan 
Arabs  was  much  the  same  as  that  of  their  descendants 
the  Bedawis  of  the  present  day.  The  wants  of  a 
pastoral  life  are  few.  To  the  Arab  of  the  desert,  the 
camel — like  the  reindeer  to  the  Laplander — is  an 
invaluable  gift  of  Providence.  Strong  and  patient,  the 
camel  is  capable  of  canying  a  load  weighing  a  thousand 
pounds,  and  of  making  a  journey  of  several  days' 
duration  without  water;  while  the  dromedary,  of  a 
lighter  and  more  active  build,  is  celebrated  by  their 
poets  as  outstripping  the  ostrich  in  speed.  The  long 
and  fine  hair  of  the  camel,  which  is  cast  periodically, 
was  woven  into  cloth  for  their  tents  and  their  garments; 
its  milk,  cooled  in  the  wind,  furnished  a  refireshing 
and  nourishing  drink ;  its  flesh  was  their  chief  food, 
together  with  the  flesh  of  horses  on  festal  occasions. 
Camel's  milk,  however,  was  not  their  only  beverage : 
the  old  Arabs — those  of  the  deserts  as  well  as  those  of 
the  cities — seem  to  have  been  greatly  addicted  to 
wine-drinking,  and  intoxication  was  the  nile  rather 
than  the  exception  at  their  frequent  feasts.  Even 
the  women  appear  to  have  freely  indulged  in  wine — 
in  the  absence  of  their  lords,  if  not  with  their  sanction 


xxvi.  INTRODUCTION. 

and  in  their  presence.  The  pre-Islamite  bards  all 
celebrate  the  exhilarating  effects  of  wine,  and  some 
even  boast  of  their  ability  to  drink  the  whole  store  of 
the  vintner,  "at  one  sitting."  It  was  therefore  not 
without  reason  perhaps  that  Muhammad,  the  great 
Lawgiver,  sternly  interdicted  the  use  among  Muslims 
of  that  salutary  yet  perilous  beverage,  and  of  all 
other  intoxicating  drinks. — The  Arabs  are  praised 
by  all  ancient  writers  for  their  respect  for  women ; 
their  scrupulously  "keepiiig  theif'wofdy  and  for  their 
quickness  of  apprehension  and  their  penetration, 
and — the  desert  tribes  especially — the  vivacity  of 
their  wit.  On  the  other  hand,  they  were  cbg^rac- 
terised  by  an  eager  desire  fqr  the  property  of  their 
neighbours,  an  unconquerable  fondness  for  strife  and 
bloodshed,  and  by  their  vengeful  disposition. 

One  of  the  barbarous  customs  which  prevailed 
among  the  indepjendent  tribes  of_Arabia  was  the 
system  of  private  war,  or  tribal  and  family^  feuds, 
similar  in  their  origin,  duration,  and  ferocity  to  those 
feuds  which  existed  among  the  Highland  clans  of 
Scotland  until  within  comparatively  recent  times. 
The  murder  of  an  Arab  chief  by  the  people  of 
another  tribe  was  sufficient  to  kindle  a  sanguinary 
war  between  the  two  tribes  and  their  collateral 
branches,  which  often  lasted  for  a  generation,  and 
even  longer.  For  every  relative  that  liad  been  slain, 
the  Arabian,  when  his  tribe  were  victorious  over  that 
of  the  slayer,  singled  out  a  captive,  and,  as  a  point 
of  honour,  coolly  put  them  to  death.     But  avarice 


THE  ANCIENT  ARABS,  xxvii. 

sometimes  mitigated  this  brutal  custom :  the  nearest 
relative  of  the  deceased  was  permitted  to  waive 
the  blood-vengeance  in  consideration  of  a  fine,  the 
amount  of  which,  about  the  time  of  Muhammad's 
birth,  seems  to  have  been  ten  camels.  The  Prophet 
endeavoured  to  soften  or  regulate  the  vengeful  dis- 
position of  his  countrymen  by  several  passages  in 
the  Qur'an ;  and  in  later  times,  in  the  Sunnat,  or 
Traditions,  almost  equal  in  authority  with  the  Qur'an 
itself,  the  amount  of  the  bloodwit  was  increased  to 
one  hundred  camels.  "  In  the  East,"  says  Richardson, 
"  the  relations  of  the  principals  in  a  quarrel  seem  to 
have  been  bound  by  honour  and  custom  to  espouse 
their  party  and  to  revenge  their  death :  one  of  the 
highest  reproaches  with  which  one  Arabian  could 
upbraid  another  being  an  accusation  of  having  left 
the  blood  of  his  friend  imrevenged." 

Thejcustom  of  setting  apart  certain  months  of  the 
year,  during  which  all  warfare  was  unlawful,  must 
have  acted  as  a  wholesome  check  upon  the  sanguin- 
ary disposition  of  the  pagan  Arabs.  The  eleventh, 
twelfth,  first,  and  seventh  months  were  thus  held 
sacre3  y  the  twelflhi 'Z7>5«V-i^q^*,  being,  as  the  name 
implies,  the  month  of  pilgrimage  to  Makka.  "  During 
these  months  whoever  was  in  fear  of  his  enemy  lived 
in  security ;  so  that  if  a  man  met  the  miurderer  of 
his  father  or  his  brother,  he  durst  not  offer  him 
violence."  Similar  in  object,  though  not  in  observ- 
ance, to  the  sacred  months  of  the  old  Arabs,  were 
the  Treuga  Dei  and  the  Pax  R^s  of  Europe  during 


xxTiu.  INTRODUCTION. 


the  Middle  Ages.*  Muhammad  retained  the  sacred 
months,  butjgave  permission  tp  attack  the  ^n^mies  of 
Isl^sgLAt^-tiaies. 

The  unnatural  practice,  which  prevailed  among  some 
tribes,  of  burying  their  female  children  alive  as  soon  as 
they  were  bom,  had  its  origin  perhaps  in  a  desire  to 
save  them  from  the  ill-usage  to  which  female  captives 
were  often  subjected  t  They  also  sacrificed  them  to 
their  idols,  in  common  with  some  of  the  neighbouring 
nations.  It  is  said  that  even  the  Greeks  themselves 
in  the  earlier  ages  destroyed  their  female  ofi&pring. 
Muhammad,  of  course,  abolished  this  horrible  custom. 

Diyinaticm  and  augury  were  much  in  vogue  among 
the  old  Arabs.  Arrows,  without  heads  or  feathers, 
were  employed  in  divination,  and  were  usually  kept 
in  the  temples  dedicated  to  local  or  favourite  idols. 


*  The  Treuga  Dei^  or  Truce  of  God,  was  adopted  about  the 
year  1032,  in  consequence  of  a  pretended  revelation  of  a  bishop 
of  Aquitaine.  It  was  published  in  the  time  of  a  general 
calamity ;  and  it  made  so  deep  an  impression  on  the  minds 
of  men,  that  a  general  cessation  of  private  hostilities  was 
observed,  we  are  told,  for  seven  years ;  and  a  resolution  formed, 
that  no  man  should  in  time  to  come  molest  his  adversary 
from  Thursday  evening  till  Monday  morning.  The  Pax  Regis^ 
or  Royal  Truce,  was  an  ordinance  of  Louis  VIII.,  King  of 
France,  A.D.  1245 ;  by  which  the  friends  or  vassals  of  a 
murdered  or  injured  person  were  prohibited  from  commencing 
hostilities  till  forty  days  after  the  commission  of  the  oflfence.— 
Richardson, 

tSee  Epitome  of  the  Romance  of  Antar,  in  the  present 
volume — pp.  244  and  249. 


1l 


THE  ANCIENT  ARABS. 


XXIX. 


The  idol  Habal  in  the  Temple  of  Makka,  which  was 
destroyed  by  Muhammad  himself  when  he  purified 
the  .  Ka'baj.,  had  seven  such  arrows  in  its  hand ; 
but  three  was  the  number  commonly  used.  On 
one  of  these  was  written :  '*  Command  me,  Lord ! " 
on  another :  "  Forbid  me,  Lord  1 "  and  the  third  was 
blank.  If  the  blank  arrow  happened  to  be  drawn, 
they  were  again  mixed  (in  a  sack),  and  drawn  until 
a  decisive  answer  was  obtained.  No  enterprise  of 
moment  was  undertaken  without  consulting  either 
these  divining  arrows  or  the  flight  of  a  bird  :  if  it 
flew  to  the  right,  it  was  ominous  of  good  fortune  ; 
but  if  to  the  left,  the  intended  journey  or  enterprise 
was  abandoned. 

The  principal  dialects  spoken  by  the  Arab  tribes 
were  those  of  Himyar  (or  Yaman)  and  of  the  Quraysh. 
The  language  of  Himyar  seems  to  have  been  but 
little  cultivated ;  that  of  the  Quraysh,  called  the  pure, 
or  defecated,  and  styled  in  the  Qur'an,  "the  per- 
spicuous and  clear  Arabic,"  ultimately  became  the 
language  of  all  Arabia!  The  Quraysh  were  the  most 
TeSnedandreErod  of  all  the  Western  Arabs :  carrying 
on  an  extensive  trade  with  every  neighbouring  state, 
and  being,  for  many  generations  before  the  time  of 
Muhammad,  the  custodians  of  the  Ka'ba,  to  which 
a  vast  number  of  pilgrims  flocked  once  a  year  from 
all  parts  of  Arabia,  and  from  every  country  where 
the  Sabian  religion  prevailed,  refinement  and  learning 
were  a  natural  consequence  of  their  intercourse  with 
strangers  of  the  best  classes. 


XXX.  INTRODUCTION, 


Poetry  and  eloquence,  but  especially  poetry,  were 
assiduously  cultivated  by  the  Arabs.  "With  them," 
says  Professor  E.  H.  Palmer,  "  it  was  not  merely  a 
passion,  it. wiis  a  necessity;  for,  as  their  own  proverb 
has  it,  *  the  jccords-bf  rthe  Arabs  zx^  the^verses  of 
their  bards.'  What  the  Ballad  was  in  preserving 
the  memory  of  the  Scottish  Border  wars,  such  was  the 
Eclogue  in  perpetuating  the  history  and  traditions 
of  the  various  tribes  of  the  Arabian  peninsula.  The 
peculiar  construction  of  their  language  and  the  rich- 
ness of  its  vocabulary  afforded  remarkable  facilities 
for  the  metrical  expression  of  ideas ;  and  accord- 
ingly the  art  of  Mundzarah,  or  poetical  disputation, 
in  which  two  rival  chieftains  advanced  their  respec- 
tive claims  to  pre-eminence  in  extemporary  verse, 
was  brought  to  the  highest  perfection  among  them." 

To  their  poetry,  indeed,  the  Arabians  have  been 
chiefly  indebted  even  for  the  preservation  of  their 
language.  The  old  Arabs  set  great  store  by  the 
genealogy  of  their  families,  and  as  this  was  the  sub- 
ject of  frequent  and  bitter  disputes,  their  poems 
preserved  the  distinction  of  descents,  the  rights  of 
tribes,  and  the  memory  of  great  actions.  The  prin- 
cipal occasions  of  rejoicing  among  the  desert  tribes 
were :  the  birth  of  a  boy ;  the  fall  of  a  foal  of  generous 
breed ;  and  the  rise  of  a  great  poet  capable  of  vindi- 
cating their  rights,  and  of  immortalising  their  renown. 

Such,  in  brief,  were  some  of  the  characteristics  of 
those  ancient  people,  who,  imder  the  banner  of  Islam, 
spread  like  an  inundation  over  Asia :  "  delighting  in 


THE  SEVEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,  xxxi. 

eloquence,  acts  of  liberality,  and  martial  achievements, 
they  made  the  whole  earth  red  as  wine  with  the  blood 
of  their  foes,  and  the  air  like  a  forest  of  canes  with 
their  tall  spears  "  :  and  in  a  very  few  years  created  an 
empire  larger  than  that  of  the  Romans  themselves. 


IL— THE   MU'ALLAQAT; 

OR,   SEVEN   ANCIENT  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS. 

BOUT  the  end  of  the  sixth  century— the 
most  brilliant  period  in  the  ancient  his- 
tory of  the  Arabs — the  Arabic  language 
attained  its  greatest  perfection,  in  con- 
sequence, it  is  said,  of  the  poetical  contests  which 
took  place  at  the  annual  fair  that  was  held  at 
'Ukatz  during  the  month  of  pilgrimage  {Dht^l-hajJ), 
"  For,  as  every  tribe  had  many  words  peculiar  to 
itself,"  says  Sir  W.  Jones,  "the  poets,  for  the  con- 
venience of  the  measure,  or  sometimes  for  their 
singular  beauty,  made  use  of  them  allj  and  as  the 
poems  became  popular  these  words  were  by  degrees 
incorporated  with  the  whole  language  :  like  a  number 
of  little  streams  which  meet  together  in  one  channel, 
and,  forming  a  most  bountiful  river,  flow  rapidly  into 
the  sea."  The  several  tribes  of  the  peninsula  vied" 
with  each  other  in  sending  their  best  poets  to  repre- 
sent them  at  the  *Ukatz  assembly.  The  bards  having 
recited  their  eclogues — in  which  there  was  little 
variety  of  subject :  most  of  them  commencing  with 


INTRODUCTION, 


a  lament  for  the  departure  of  a  fair  one,  and  a  descrip- 
tion of  her  personal  charms ;  passing  abruptly  to  au 
account  of  the  noble  qualities  of  the  poet's  horse  or 
camel,  or  a  eulogium  on  his  tribe,  and  his  own 
prowess  in  battle — judgment  was  impartially  passed 
on  their  respective  merits;  and  those  poems  which 
were  considered  as  most  excellent  were  afterwards 
written  upon  silk,  in  characters  of  gold,  and  hung  up 
in  the  Temple — hence,  it  has  been  supposed,  they 
were  called  Mu^cUlaqat^  or  "Suspended,"  and  also 
Mudhahhabat,  or  "  Gilded "  (not  *'  Golden,"  as  the 
term  is  usually  rendered).*  Of  these  '*  Prize  Poems" 
seven,  entitled  The  Mu  'allaqat,  par  excellence^  are 
preserved  in  many  of  the  European  libraries :  they 
are  the  composition  of  Imra'u-'l-Qays  ;  Tarafa; 
Zuhayr;  Lebid;  *Antara;  'Amr;  and  el-Harith  ; 


*The  actual  meaning  of  these  terms,  as  applied  to  the 
"Seven  Ancient  Arabic  Prize  Poems,"  is,  however,  a  vexed 
question  among  modern  European  Arabists.  The  current 
interpretations,  that  these  Poems  were  entitled  Mu^allaqdt  (in 
the  singular,  Mu*allaqa\  either  because  they  were  suspended 
on  the  Ka*ba,  or  because  each  of  the  so-called  Poems  consists 
of  fragments  or  short  pieces  "hung"  or  strung  together,  are 
utterly  rejected  by  Professor  W.  Ahlwardt,  the  eminent  German 
Orientalist ;  as  also  the  surmise  of  Herr  Von  Kremer,  that  the 
term  is  derived  from  another  meaning  of  the  word — "  written 
down  from  the  dictation  of  the  Rawis  "  (Reciters  of  Poetry) :  he 
rather  regards  the  name  as  being  analogous  with  the  other  term, 
Mudhakhabdt^  or  gilded,  and  to  signify  "set  with  ornaments  " — 
pre-eminent,  or  "  golden  "  verses.  The  same  learned  Professor 
moreover  considers  the  accounts  of  poetical  contests,  at  'Ukatz 
and  other  places,  as  mere  fictions  of  Oriental  writers. 


THE  SEVEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,  xxxiii. 

and  in  the  Pocock  MSS.,  No.  174,  preserved  in  the 
Bodleian  Library  at  Oxford,  are  some  forty  others 
which  were  also  hung  up  in  the  Ka*ba. 

To  Sir  William  Jones,  who  first  directed  the  atten- 
tion of  the  learnvjd  in  Europe  to  the  rich  treasures 
contained  in  the  ancient  literature  of  Hindustan, 
belongs  also  the  honour  of  having  been  the  first  to 
translate  the  Seven  Arabic  Prize  Poems  into  a  Euro- 
pean language.  In  1782  was  published  his  English 
translation  of  the  Mu*allaqat,  with  Arguments,  and 
the  original  texts  in  Roman  characters.*    And  this  was 


*  In  quarto,  entitled  :  The  Mo&llakit ;  or  Seven  Arabian  Poems 
which  were  Suspended  on  the  Temple  at  Mecca,  with  a  Trans- 
lation and  Arguments.  By  William  Jones,  Esq.  London,  1782. 
From  the  "  Advertisement "  prefixed  to  this  work  we  learn  that 
Sir  W.  Jones  purposed  furnishing  a  I*reliminary  Discourse  which 
was  to  comprise  "  observations  on  the  antiquity  of  the  Arabian 
language  and  letters  ;  on  the  dialects  and  characters  of  Himyar 
and  Koraish,  with  accounts  of  some  Himyarick  poets  ;  on  the 
manners  of  the  Arabs  in  the  age  immediately  preceding  that  of 
Mahomed ;  on  the  temple  at  Mecca,  and  the  Modllakdty  or 
pieces  of  poetry  suspended  on  its  walls  or  gate ;  lastly,  on  the 
lives  of  the  Seven  Poets,  with  a  critical  history  of  their  works, 
and  the  various  copies  or  editions  of  them  preserved  in  Europe, 
Asia  and  Africa."  There  were  also  to  be  Notes,  giving 
'*  authorities  and  reasons  for  the  translation  of  controverted 
passages;  elucidating  all  the  obscure  couplets,  and  exhibiting 
or  proposing  amendments  of  the  text ;  directing  the  reader's 
atten^n  to  particular  beauties,  or  pointing  out  remarkable 
defects;  and  throwing  light  on  the  images,  figures,  and' 
allusions  of  the  Arabian  poets,  by  citations,  either  from 
writers  of  their  own  country,  or  from  such  of  our  European 
travellers  as  best  illustrate  the  ideas  and  customs  of  Eastern 

c 


xxxiv.  INTRODUCTION, 

not  only  the  first,  but  it  remains  the  only  complete 
English  translation  of  these  remarkable  composi- 
tions; for,  strange  as  it  may  appear,  no  attempt 
has  been  made  by  our  modem  English  Arabists  to 
give  their  unlearned  countrymen  a  more  accurate 
translation  than  was  perhaps  possible  in  the  time 
of  Sir  W.  Jones. 

The  original  metre  employed  in  Arab  poetry  was 
the  RajaZy  2L  short  iambic  verse,  always  ending  with 


nations."  This  elaborate  scheme,  however,  was  never  carried 
out — From  a  letter  addressed  to  his  learned  Dutch  friend, 
H.  A.  Schultens,  in  June,  1781,  we  learn  that  Sir  W.  Jones 
was  guided  in  his  translation  of  the  Mu^allaqat  by  the  Com- 
mentary of  Tabrizi,  the  paraphrase  of  Zauzani,  and  other  native 
grammarians. 

It  :may  be  added,  that,  in  issuing  his  translation  of  the 
Mu*allaqdtf  with  the  original  texts  transliterated  into  European 
characters,  Sir  W.  Jones  solicited  the  co-operation  —  the 
strictures  and  annotations — of  continental  scholars.  "But,"  he 
remarks,  "  the  Discourse  and  Notes  are  ornamental  only, 
and  not  essential  to  the  work" — surely  a  curious  statement, 
from  an  English  reader*s  point  of  view,  at  least ;  since 
without  some  previous  knowledge  of  the  habits  and  manners 
of  the  old  Arabs,  and  some  notes  explanatory  of  obscure 
allusions,  these  compositions  must  be  in  a  great  measure 
unintelligible  to  general  readers.  But  Sir  W.  Jones  doubtless 
meant  that  the  proposed  Discourse  and  Notes  were  unnecessary 
to  scholars,  who  might  consult  the  native  conimentaries. 
However  this  may  be,  it  is  probable  that  to  the  absence  of 
explanatory  notes  is  due  the  circumstance  that  his  translation 
of  the  Mu^allaqdt  had  not  been  reprinted  since  it  was  included  in 
the  editions  of  his  collected  works  :  6  vols.,  quarto,  1799,  and 
13  vols.,  octavo,  1807. 


THE  SEVEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,   xxxv. 

the  same  rh)m[ie :  this  was  the  measure  of  the  rude 
songs  of  the  camel-drivers :  and  it  was  well  adapted 
for  extemporary  verse,  to  express  defiance,  contempts 
or  panegyric.  The  Mii*allaqa  Poems  are  composed 
m  verses,  or  couplets  (called  bayts),  of  double  the 
length  of  the  Rajaz^  and  consisting  of  two  halves 
or  hemistichs;  the  two  hemistichs  of  the  first  bayt 
invariably  rhyming  with  each  other,  and  with  the 
second  hemistich  of  each  succeeding  couplet.  This 
fehn  of  verse  is  called  the  Qaslda  (KasTdnh,  or 
Casida)7  and,  being  that  adopted  in  the  composition 
of  the  Prize  Poems,  it  has  been  thought  that  the  term 
was  derived  from  the  word  Qasd^  which  signifies  an 
object  or  aim :  these  poems  (or  Qasidas)  having  been 
composed  with  the  special  object  of  obtaining  pre- 
eminence at  the  poetical  contests.*  But  this  generally 
received  interpretation  of  the  term  Qasida  is  rejected 
by  Professor  Ahlwardt,  who  ascribes  it  to  another 
signification  of  the  word  Qasd — "  the  breaking  of 
things  into  halves":  each  bayt^  or  verse,  being  divided 
into  hemistichs  (as  is  shown  in  the  Frontispiece  to  the 
present  volume),  the  whole  poem  may  be  said  to 
consist  of  two  halves.      Sixteen  different  measures 

*  Some  commentators  say  that  praise-poems,  or  eclogues  in 
praise  of  great  men,  which  were  always  composed  in  this  form 
of  verse,  first  obtained  the  name  of  Qasidas :  panegyric  being 
their  special  object  or  aim.  Even  the  nature  of  the  Qasida  is 
variously  reported  :  some  have  said  that  it  must  be  over  three 
distichs  (the  lowest  Arabic  plural) ;  others,  over  seven ;  and 
others,  over  sixteen. — A  specimen  of  the  Qasida  rhyme,  in 
English  verse,  is  given  in  page  367  of  this  volume. 


xxxvi.  INTRODUCTION, 


are  known  in  Arabian  prosody,  four  of  which  are 
adopted  in  the  Mu'allaqa  Poems ;  but  the  movement 
of  the  rhyme  {qasida)  is  the  same  in  them  alL 

The  authors  of  the  Mu'allaqat  were  all  men  of 
high  poetical  genius,  although  they  were  in  no  sense 
possessed  of  literary  culture — indeed,  it  is  almost 
certain  that  scarcely  one  of  them  could  read  and 
write.  They  were  natural  poets,  whose  ignorance 
of  letters  was  fully  compensated  by  a  nice  sense  of 
rhythm  and  the  faculty  of  clearly  and  vigorously 
expressing  in  their  rich  and  copious  language  what 
they  thought  and  felt ; — ^impulsive  children  of  the 
desert,  whose  passions  had  free  scope  for  good  and 
evil ;  who  were  capable  of  the  most  intense  affection, 
and  of  the  most  bitter  hatred :  whose  strong  feelings 
found  vent  in  flowing  verse. 

A  century  had  elapsed  after  the  rise  of  Islam  when 
the  fragments  of  the  early  poetry,  and  anecdotes  of 
the  most  famous  bards  of  the  Arabian  peninsula 
— especially  the  poets  of  Yaman — which  had  been 
handed  down  orally  from  generation  to  generation, 
were  finally  reduced  to  writing.  How  much  of  the 
traditions  regarding  the  pagan  Arab  poets  is  fabulous 
cannot  now  be  ascertained ;  but  to  the  task  of  investi- 
gating the  authenticity  of  the  so-called  reliques  of 
ancient  Arabic  poetry  the  most  learned  scholars 
of  Germany  have  for  some  time  been  devoted,  with 
results  which  are  more  or  less  conclusive,  and  which 
will  be   touched  upon  in   the  next  section  of  this 


THE  SEVEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,  xxxvii. 


Introdaction.  The  following  particulars  regarding 
the  several  authors  of  the  Mu'a^laqat  are  gleaned 
from  the  best  Oriental  writers. 

IMRA'U-'L-QAYS 

the  son  of  Hujr,  the  son  of  Harith,  was  a  prince  of 
the  tribe  of  Kinda.  His  real  name  was  Hunduj,  and 
he  acquired  the  epithet  of  Imra'u-l'Qays  (*'  the  man  of 
adversity")  from  his  misfortunes.*  Muhammad  called 
him  el-Maliku  ^dz-Dziltily  "  the  most  erring  prince,"  as 
being  the  best  of  the  pagan  Arab  poets,  whom,  he  also 
said,  Imr'  would  head  on  their  way  to  the  place  of 
woe.  His  love  adventure  with  a  damsel  of  another 
tribe,  alluded  to  in  vv.  8-13  of  his  Mu*allaqa,  and 
detailed  in  the  translator's  Argument,  so  exasperated 
his  father  that  he  expelled  him  from  the  tribe ;  and  for 
many  years  the  poet  led  a  wandering,  reckless  life 
among  the  Arabs  of  the  desert,  a  life  of  peril  and  often 
of  privation  \  occasionally  varied  by  a  halt  at  some 
well-watered  spot,  where  he  and  his  comrades  feasted 

*  In  Sir  W.  Jones*  **  Genealogy  of  the  Seven  Poets,"  prefixed 
to  his  translation  of  the  Mu^allaqdty  the  father  of  Imra'u-1-Qays 
('Amriol-Kais)  is  called  Maiah  ;  his  grandfather,  Rabeiah  (who 
was  the  father  of  Kulayb,  the  proud  chief,  whose  murder  caused 
a  long  and  bloody  war  between  the  tribes  of  Taglib  and  Bakr) ; 
and  his  great  grandfather,  Ilareth.  Possibly  **  Maiah  "  was 
another  name  of  Hujr,  the  father  of  Imra'u-'l-Qays ;  however, 
the  asterisk  after  the  name  in  Sir  W.  Jones'  list  evidently 
indicates  that  it  was  doubtful. — According  to  Professor  Ahlwardt, 
the  poet  was  also  styled  Abu  Zayd  (father  of  a  son  called  Zayd), 
son  of  Hujr,  son  of  Harith. 


xxxviii.  INTRODUCTION, 


on  camel's  flesh  and  caroused,  while  singmg-girls 
amused  them  with  their  lively  songs.  The  poet  was 
thus  engaged,  drinking  and  gaming,  when  a  messenger 
from  his  tribe  arrived,  and  announced  that  his  father 
had  been  slain  by  his  rebellious  subjects.  Imra'u-'l- 
Qays  made  no  answer  \  and  on  his  companion  stopping 
his  game,  he  simply  said :  "  Play  on."  But  when  the 
game  was  finished,  he  remarked  to  his  comrade :  "  I 
would  not  have  thy  game  interrupted;"  and  then, 
turning  to  the  messenger,  he  inquired  minutely  into 
all  the  circumstances  of  his  father's  assassination. 
Having  learned  the  particulars, he  said:  **  As  a  youth, 
my  father  banished  me  from  his  house  \  as  a  man,  it 
is  my  duty  to  avenge  his  death.  But  to-day  we  shall 
drink;  to-morrow,  sobriety:  wine,  to-day;  business, 
to-morrow." 

With  an  army  of  the  tribes  of  Taglib  and  Bakr 
(who  were  not  then  at  variance),  Imrau-'l-Qays 
marched  against  his  rebellious  people,  who,  how- 
ever, escaped  his  vengeance,  by  placing  themselves 
under  the  protection  of  the  King  of  Hira.  Upon 
this  his  followers  forsook  him,  and  he  then  sought 
help  of  the  Himyarite  prince  Marthad  el-Khayr,  who 
promised  him  500  men,  but  died  soon  afterwards; 
and  his  successor  showed  little  disposition  to  assist 
the  unfortunate  prince. 

At  this  juncture,  Irara'u-'l-Qays  had  recourse  to 
divination,  as  was  customary  among  the  pagan 
Arabs  before  any  enterprise  of  moment. waa,  under- 
taken.     The   prince    drew  the  lot  with  the.. three 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,   xxxix. 


arrows  of  ** order,"  "defence,"  and  "expectation"; 
and  having  drawn  the  second  one  three  times  in 
succession,  he  broke  the  arrows  and  threw  them 
in  the  face  of  the  idol,  exclaiming :  "  If  they  had 
killed  thy  father,  thou  wouldst  not  limit  thyself  to 
defence  alone  1" 

Finding  he  could  obtain  no  assistance  from  the 
prince  of  Yaman,  he  next  proceeded  to  the  court 
of  the  Emperor  Justinian  ;  but  unfortimately  an  Arab 
was  there  whose  father  had  been  killed  by  the  poet's 
father,  and  he  prejudiced  the  Emperor's  mind  against 
Imra'u-'l-Qays,  who  quitted  the  court  with  all  speed. 
But  the  Emperor,  incited  by  his  Arab  courtier,  sent  a 
messenger  after  him  with  a  poisoned  garment.  The  poet 
was  overtaken  at  Ancyra,  and  no  sooner  had  he  put  on 
the  fatal  garment  than  he  was  seized  with  dreadful  pains, 
his  body  was  covered  with  ulcers,  and  soon  afterwards 
he  expired  in  great  agony.  His  last  words  were  :  "  He, 
from  whose  lips  flowed  eloquence,  at  whose  sword- 
strokes  flowed  the  blood  of  his  enemies,  at  whose  feasts 
flowed  rich  wine — he  came  to  Ancyra,  and  no  farther." 

TARAFA 

the  son  of  Pvl-*Abd,  the  son  of  Sufyan,  was  of  the  tribe 
of  Muzayna,  a  branch  of  the  Banu  Bakr  (sons  of  Bakr, 
or  Beer),  and  hence  he  was  surnamed  El-Muzani.  He 
may  be  said  truly  to  have  "  lisped  in  numbers,"  for  at 
the  tender  age  of  seven  he  gave  proof  of  his  poetical 
genius.  He  was  travelling  with  his  uncle,  and,  the 
party  resting  for  the  night  on  the  banks  of  a  clear 


xl.  INTRODUCTION, 


Stream,  Tarafa — ^boy-like — set  snares  to  catch  larks  \ 
but  not  having  succeeded  when  they  resumed  their 
journey  in  the  morning,  the  little  poet  expressed  him- 
self on  the  occasion  in  verses  to  the  following  effect : 

Rejoice,  O  lark  !  in  the  expanse  of  the  plain  :  thou  enjoyest 
free  air — sing,  then,  and  increase  in  security.  Fly  round  about, 
and  pick  up  all  that  thou  canst  desire :  the  bird-catcher  is  gone — 
rejoice  then  at  his  departure  !  The  snare  is  removed,  and  thou 
hast  nothing  more  to  fear; — but  yet  fear  thou  always;  for  at 
length  thou  shalt  be  taken  ! 

The  occasion  which  gave  rise  to  his  Mu'allaqa — 
the  loss  of  the  camels  belonging  jointly  to  himself 
and  his  elder  brother — is  related  in  the  translator's 
Argument  C.  de  Perceval  states  that  'Amr  the  son 
of  Marthad,  one  of  the  noble  chiefs  whom  the  poet 
compliments  in  v.  8i,  sent  for  Tarafa,  and  said  to 
him:  "Children  God  alone  can  give  thee;  but  as 
to  goods  I  will  set  thee  on  the  same  footing  with  my 
own  sons."  He  then  called  his  seven  sons  and  three 
grandsons,  and  ordered  each  of  them  to  give  the  poet 
ten  camels  \  thus  making  good  the  loss  upon  which  his 
brother  had  so  bitterly  reproached  him. 

The  most  remarkable  event  in  Tarafa's  brief  life 
is  his  tragical  end.  'Amr  the  son  of  Hind,  king 
of  Hira,  had  sent  Tarafa  and  Mutalammis,  also 
a  famous  poet,  to  be  companions  to  his  younger 
brother  Qabus,  whom  he  intended  for  his  successor. 
Qabus,  it  appears,  was  greatly  addicted  to  drinking, 
and  was  often  discovered  intoxicated ;  and  both  poets 
composed  some  very  satirical  verses  on  him  and  the 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,       xli. 

King.  Enraged  at  these  lampoons  (which  probably 
came  to  his  knowledge  through  some  "good-natured 
friend"),  *Amr  gave  each  of  the  poets  a  "Bellerophon 
letter"  to  the  governor  of  Bahrayn,  in  which  he  was 
ordered  to  put  the  Nearer  to  death.  Mutalammis, 
suspecting  the  designs  of  the  King,  broke  open  his 
letter,  and  showed  it  to  a  friend,  who  read  it  to  him ; 
and  on  learning  the  contents,  he  destroyed  it,  and 
advised  Tarafa  to  turn  back  with  him.  But  Tarafli, 
perhaps  thinking  that  his  friend  had  been  imposed 
upon  by  the  reader  of  the  letter,*  declined  his  advice, 
and  continued  his  fatal  journey.  On  delivering  his 
letter,  the  governor  of  Bahrayn,  carrying  out  the 
orders  of  *Amr,  cut  off  the  poef  s  hands  and  feet,  and 
then  caused  him  to  be  buried  alive.  Tarafa  was  only 
twenty-six  years  old  when  he  thus  miserably  perished. 

ZUHAYR 

the  son  of  Abu  Sulmk,  Rabi'a,  was  distinguished  from 
early  youth  for  his  poetical  genius.  He  was  a  special 
favourite  of  his  grand-uncle  Bashama,  who  was  himself 
a  famous  poet ;  yet,  when  the  old  man  felt  his  end 
approaching,  he  divided  his  goods  among  his  relations 
and  left  nothing  to  Zuhayr.  "Wilt  thou  leave  me 
nothing?"  asked  Zuhayr. — "I  leave  thee,"  said  the 
patriarch,  "the  finest  part  of  my  inheritance — my 
talent  for  poetry." — "But  that  is  already  mine," 
replied    Zuhayr. — "  Nay,"   said    the   old   man,    "  all 


*  From  this  it  would  appear  that  the  poet  Mutalammis,  and 
probably  Tarafa  also,  could  not  read. 


xlii.  INTRODUCTION, 

Arabia  knows  that  poesy  is  an  inheritance  of  my 
family,  and  that  it  went  from  me  to  thee."  Zuhayr 
got  a  legacy,  nevertheless. 

His  Mu*allaqa  was  composed,  on  the  conclusion 
of  the  War  of  Dahis,  in  honour  of  el-Harith  son 
of  *Auf  and  Harim  son  of  Sinan,  the  peace-makers. 
Zuhayr  also  composed  a  great  number  of  eclogues 
in  praise  of  Harim,  the  son  of  Salm^  who  had 
sworn  not  only  to  grant  all  the  poet's  requests,  but 
to  give  him,  for  every  poem  he  composed  in  his 
praise,  either  a  female  slave  or  a  horse.  This 
liberality  rendered  Zuhayr  so  bashful  in  the  presence 
of  his  patron,  that  whenever  the  poet  chanced  to 
enter  a  company  in  which  Harim  was,  he  would 
say :  "  I  salute  you  all,  excepting  Harim,  although  he 
is  the  best  among  you." 

A  son  of  Harim  having  recited  to  the  Khalif 
*Omar  one  of  Zuhayr's  eclogues  in  praise  of  his 
family,  'Omar  remarked :  "  Zuhayr  has  said  many 
beautiful  things  about  you." — "Tnie,"  answered  the 
son  of  Harim;  "but  we  have  made  him  as  many 
fine  presents." — **  What  you  gave  him,"  said  'Omar, 
"  will  perish  through  course  of  time  \  but  his  praises 
will  endure  for  ever." — 'Omar,  though  no  great  friend 
of  poets  or  admirer  of  poetry,  always  spoke  favourably 
of  Zuhayr,  because  in  his  poems  he  had  praised  only 
such  as  really  deser\'ed  praise,  as  Harim  the  son  of 
SalmL 

Umm  Auf^,  whom  he  mentions  in  the  first  verse 
of  his  Mu'allaqa,  was  Zuhayr's  first  wife,  whom  he 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,     xliii. 

divorced  on  account  of  her  jealousy,  but  of  this 
he  afterwards  repented.  The  children  she  bore 
him  died  young.  A  second  wife  gave  him  two 
sons :  Ka*b,  author  of  the  celebrated  qasida  entitled 
d-Burday  or  the  Mantle  (generally  known  throughout 
the  East  as  the  Bdnai  Su^ddUy  from  the  opening 
words  of  the  poem :  "  Su'ad  hath  departed  "),  which 
he  recited  before  Muhammad  (a.d.  630),  when  he 
made  his  peace  with  the  Prophet,  and  professed 
himself  a  Muslim ;  and  Bujayr,  who  was  an  early 
convert  to  Islam. 

According  to  the  Kitdbu-l-Agdnl  (Book  of  Songs), 
compiled  by  Abu-'l-Faraj  el-Isfahani,  Muhammad  saw 
Zuhayr  when  he  was  a  hundred  years  old,  and 
exclaimed :  "  God  grant  me  a  refuge  from  his 
Devil " — meaning,  his  cunning  in  song ;  and  it  is 
added  that  before  the  Prophet  had  quitted  the 
house,  Zuhayr  was  dead.  Another  account  is  that 
Zuhayr  foretold  to  his  sons  Ka*b  and  Bujayr  the 
advent  of  Muhammad,  and  earnestly  recommended 
them  to  give  ear  to  the  Apostle's  teaching  when 
he  did  come;  but  that  Zuhayr  was  dead  before 
Muhammad  began  his  mission. 

LEBID 

(or  Labid)  was  the  son  of  Rabi'a,  of  the  Banu 
Kilab,  who,  because  of  his  great  liberality,  was  called 
RabVatu-i-muqtirfny  that  is,  "  The  Spring  of  the  indi- 
gent ones."  Lebid's  kunyay  or  bye  name,  was  Abu 
*Aqil.     His  uncle  was   *Abu  Biza'ir,  'Amir,  son  of 


xlir.  INTRODUCTION, 


Malik,  surnamed  MuldHbu-l-^Asinna^ — "the  player 
with  lances."  While  yet  a  mere  youth,  Lebid  accom- 
panied a  deputation  of  his  tribe,  headed  by  his  famous 
uncle,  to  the  court  of  Nu'sian  of  Hira,  where,  by  a 
satirical  poem,  which  he  composed  almost  extempore 
and  recited  before  the  king,  he  effected  the  disgrace 
of  a  courtier  who  was  obnoxious  to  his  tribe. 

Lebid  is  one  of  the  poets  who  belonged  to  "  the 
time  of  the  Ignorance  "  and  also  to  Islam.  Various 
accoimts  are  given  of  the  circumstance  which  led  to 
his  conversion.  According  to  the  Agdnl^  Lebid  was 
one  of  a  deputation  that  waited  upon  the  Prophet 
after  the  death  of  the  poet's  brother  *Arbad  (who  was 
killed  by  a  stroke  of  lightning  a  day  or  two  after  he 
had  made  an  impious  speech  against  the  fundamental 
doctrine  of  Islam),  and  the  aged  poet  then  and  there 
professed  himself  a  convert.  Others  say  that  it  was 
the  custom  for  poets  in  those  days  to  affix  their 
verses  to  the  gate  of  the  Ka*ba,  as  a  general  chal- 
lenge against  the  next  assembly  at  *Ukatz,  and  that 
Lebid  had  put  up  the  following  poem  (translated  by 
Mr.  C.  J.  Lyall) : 

Yea,  everything  is  vain,  except  only  GrOD  alone, 
and  every  pleasant  thing  must  one  day  vanish  away  ! 

And  all  the  race  of  men — there  shall  surely  come  among  them 
a  Fearful  Woe,  whereby  their  fingers  shall  grow  pale  : 

And  every  mother's  son,  though  his  life  be  lengthened  out 
to  the  utmost  bound,  comes  home  at  last  to  the  Grave  : 

And  every  man  shall  know  one  day  his  labour's  worth, 
when  his  loss  or  gain  is  cast  up  on  the  Judgment  Day. 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,     xlv. 

These  verses  were  universally  admired,  and  for  some 
time  no  one  ventured  to  rival  them,  until  Muhammad 
placed  the  opening  passages  of  the  second  chapter  of 
the  Qur'an  by  the  side  of  them.  Lebid  was  struck 
with  their  sublimity,  and,  declaring  that  they  must 
have  been  written  by  dfrvine  inspiration,  tore  down 
his  own  verses,  and  immediately  professed  himself  a 
Muslim.  From  that  time  he  renounced  all  poetry; 
having,  it  is  said,  only  composed  one  couplet  after  his 
conversion : 

Praise  be  to  God,  that  my  end  came  not 
till  He  had  clad  me  with  the  robe  of  Islam  ! 

Muhammad  acknowledged  that  no  pagan  poet  had 
ever  produced  nobler  verses  than  those  of  Lebid 
above  quoted. 

After  his  conversion,  Lebid  settled  in  the  city 
of  Kufa,  where  he  died,  about  the  end  of  the  reign  of 
Mu'awiya  (a.d.  660),  at  the  age  of  157,  says  Ibn 
Qutayba,  or  145,  according  to  the  notice  of  him  in 
the  Agdniy  "  of  which  he  lived  ninety  in  the  Ignor- 
ance, and  the  rest  under  Islam."  The  following  is  a 
translation  of  the  verses  Lebid  is  said  to  have 
composed  when  he  was  considerably  over  a  hundred 
and  twenty  years  old  : 

Time  in  his  lengthened  chain  of  years  has  bound 
Our  mortal  race,  nor  e'er  his  conqueror  found  : 
Fve  seen  him  pass  by  day,  I've  seen  by  night, 
And  still,  unchanged,  return  with  morning's  light. 
Time,  like  Lebid,  grows  older  every  day, 
But  waxes  stronger,  while  I  waste  away. 


xlvi.  INTRODUCTION, 

The  governor  of  Kufa  once  sent  for  Lebid  and 
desired  him  to  recite  one  of  his  poems.  LebId  recited 
the  second  chapter  of  the  Qur'an  (entitled  "The 
Cow"),  saying,  when  he  had  finished,  "God  has 
given  me  this  in  exchange  for  poesy  since  I  became 
a  ^Muslim."  The  Khalif  *Omar,  on  being  informed 
of  this,  added  500  dirhems  to  the  2000  Lebid  was 
akeady  allowed.  When  Mu*awiya  became  Khalif,  he 
purposed  retrenching  the  poef  s  stipend,  but  Lebid 
reminded  him  that  he  was  not  likely  to  live  much 
longer :  Mu'awiya's  heart  was  touched,  and  he 
despatched  the  poet's  allowance  in  full,  but  Lebid 
died  before  it  reached  Kufa. 

Lebid's  last  words,  remarks  Dr.  Carlyle,  breathe 
more  of  the  spirit  of  a  wit  than  that  of  a  devotee : 
"  I  am  going  to  enjoy  the  novelty  of  death ;  but  it 
is  a  novelty  by  no  means  agreeable." 

*ANTARA 

the  son  of  Shaddad,*  the  renowned  warrior  and  poet, 
of  the  tribe  of  *Abs,  was  bom  in  the  beginning  of  the 
sixth  century.  His  mother  was  an  Abyssinian  slave, 
captured  in    a  predatory  incursion;  and  for  many 


*  So  this  poet  is  generally  styled  by  Oriental  writers ;  and 
according  to  Sir  W.  Jones'  "  Genealogy  of  the  Seven  Arabian 
Poets"  (prefixed  to  his  translation  of  the  Mu^allaqdt  in  this 
volume),  *Antara  was  the  son  of  Shaddad,  the  son  of  Mu'awiya; 
but  Professor  Palmer  and  other  modem  authorities  reverse  this 
order  of  descent,  and  malie  Mu'awiya  the  father  of  'Antara,  and 
Shaddad  his  grandfather. 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,    xlvii. 

years  his  father  refused  to  recognise  him  as  his  son, 
until,  by  his  heroic  achievements,  he  had  rendered 
himself  worthy  of  that  honour.  'Antara  is  invariably 
described  as  being  of  a  very  dark  complexion,  and 
having  his  lower-lip  cloven. 

The  tents  of  *Abs  having  been  suddenly  attacked 
and  plundered,  the  father  of  *Antara  promised  him  his 
freedom  if  he  rescued  the  women  who  had  been  taken 
captive,  a  feat  which  the  hero  accomplished,  after 
slaying  many  of  the  enemy  single-handed  From  this 
time  'Antara  was  recognised  as  the  champion  of  his 
tribe ;  yet  envious  spirits  did  not  scruple  frequently  to 
taunt  him  with  his  base  birth.  One  of  these  having 
insultingly  called  his  mother  a  negress,  the  hero 
retorted:  "If  it  were  a  question  of  mutual  help, 
neither  thou,  nor  thy  father,  nor  thy  grandfather, 
would  ever  be  invited  to  a  feast;  for  thou  wouldst 
never  be  placed  at  the  head  of  those  that  make  gains 
[i>.,  spoils]."  And  when  Qays  son  of  Zuhayr  said 
that  the  victory  they  had  gained  over  an  enemy  was 
owing  to  the  son  of  a  negress,  *Antara  replied,  in 
verse :  **  One  half  of  me  is  of  the  purest  blood,  the 
other  half  is  my  sword  :  therefore  it  is,  that,  when  you 
are  in  trouble  you  call  upon  me  to  relieve  you,  rather 
than  those  who  can  reckon  up  a  host  of  noble 
ancestors." 

*Antara's  heroic  exploits  and  his  excellent  poetry, 
preserved  by  oral  tradition,  furnished  material  for  the 
celebrated  Romance  of  chivalry  which  purports  to 
recount  his  life  and  adventures.      Allowing  for  its 


xlviii.  INTRODUCTION, 


hyperbolical  style  (which  never,  in  the  opinion  of 
Orientals,  invalidates  the  truth  of  history),  "  the  whole 
work,"  says  V^n  Hammer,  "may  be  esteemed  as  a 
faithful  account  of  the  principal  tribes  of  the  Arabs, 
particularly  of  the  tribe  of  'Abs,  from  which  sprung 
'Antara,  in  the  time  of  Nushirvan,  King  of  Persia." 

The  circumstance  of  'Antara's  death,  as  related  by 
some  authors — echoing  the  voice  of  tradition — though 
hardly  so  striking,  is  perhaps  not  less  in  accordance 
with  the  rules  of  poetical  justice  than  that  which 
concludes  the  Romance.  It  is  said  that,  returning 
home  with  a  herd  of  camels,  of  which  he  had 
robbed  a  clan  of  the  tribe  of  Ta'i,  *Antara  was 
struck  with  a  spear,  thrown  at  him  by  one  of  the 
plundered  tribe,  who  had  followed  the  party  unseen, 
until  a  favourable  opportunity  offered  for  revenge. 
Mortally  wounded,  and  now  an  old  man,  'Antara  had 
still  sufficient  strength  left  to  ride  home  to  his  tribe, 
where  he  died  soon  after  his  arrival. 

Muhammad  was  fascinated  by  the  stories  related 
of  *Antara's  prowess  and  poetry:  "I  have  never 
heard  an  Arab  described,"  said  the  Prophet,  **  whom 
I  should  like  to  have  seen  so  much  as  'Antara." 

•AMR 

the  son  of  Kulthum,  was  a  prince  of  the  tribe  of 
'Araqim  (/.&,  "the  speckled  snake"),  a  branch  of  the 
Banu  Taglib.  His  mother,  Layl^  was  the  daughter 
of  Muhalhil  and  Hind  ;  and  at  her  birth,  according  to 
the'  barbarous  custom  of  the  pagan  Arabs,  Muhalhil 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,     xlix. 


gave  order  that  she  should  be  immediately  buried 
alive.  But  hearing  in  his  sleep  a  voice  that  told  him 
his  daughter  should  be  the  mother  of  heroes,  he  asked 
for  the  infant,  and,  finding  that  she  was  still  alive, 
allowed  her  to  be  brought  up.  In  course  of  time 
Laylk  was  married  to  Kulthum,  and  shortly  before 
*Amr  was  born,  she  dreamed  that  a  supernatural 
being  assured  her  that  her  son  should  prove  the 
bravest  of  warriors. 

The  tribes  of  Taglib  and  Bakr  having  been  long  at 
war,  in  consequence  of  the  murder  of  Kulayb  the  son 
of  Rabi'a,  it  was  mutually  agreed  to  terminate  the 
feud  by  referring  the  dispute  to  the  decision  of 
*Amr  the  son  of  Hind,  king  of  Hira — the  same  who 
had  so  foully  caused  the  murder  of  the  poet  Tarafa. 
*Amr  the  son  of  Kulthum  appeared  as  the  advocate 
of  the  Banu  Taglib,  and  el-Harith  the  son  of  Hilliza, 
on  behalf  of  the  Banu  Bakr.  The  arguments  em- 
ployed by  *Amr  on  this  occasion  are  contained  in 
his  Mu'allaqa;  and  his  boastful — even  minatory — 
declamation  was  little  calculated  to  please  the  royal 
arbiter.  The  King  of  Hira  gave  judgment  in  favour 
of  the  Banu  Bakr,  and  not  long  afterwards  he  was 
slain  by  'Amr  the  son  of  Kulthum — in  revenge, 
as  some  think,  for  the  murder  of  Tarafa ;  but  others 
allege,  perhaps  with  more  reason,  in  retaliation  for 
the  judgment  he  had  pronounced  against  the  tribe 
of  Taglib. 

The  circumstances  of  the  King's  death  are  thus 

related.     The  King  having  asked  some  one,  "  Do 

d 


1.  INTRODUCTION, 


you  know  an  Arab  whose  mother  would  refuse  to 
serve  my  mother  ? "  the  reply  was :  "  Only  Laylk, 
the  mother  of  *Amr  son  of  Kulthum ;  for  her  father 
and  uncle  were  the  most  honoured  among  the  Arabs." 
Piqued  at  this  reply,  the  king  sent  a  messenger  to 
the  poet,  desiring  him  and  his  mother  to  visit  at  his 
court.  *Amr  set  out,  with  his  mother  in  a  litter,  and 
accompanied  by  a  troop  of  horsemen.  The  king  had 
erected  a  pavilion  between  Hira  and  the  Euphrates, 
and  there,  with  his  mother  Hind,  he  awaited  the 
arrival  of  the  poet  and  his  mother  Laylk.  When 
the  latter  entered  the  royal  pavilion.  Hind  desired 
Laylk  to  reach  her  the  keys,  who  boldly  replied:  "Let 
them  rise  and  do  thy  bidding  whom  such  service 
befits."  At  this  refusal.  Hind  began  to  insult  Layllt, 
and  even  to  use  violence  against  her,  which  *Amr 
the  son  of  Kulthum  seeing,  his  wrath  knew  no 
bounds;  and,  seizing  the  only  sword  (the  King's) 
that  hung  upon  the  wall,  he  smote  King  'Amr  on 
the  head  and  killed  him.. 

Besides  his  Mu^allaqa,  *Amr  the  son  of  Kulthum 
composed  a  number  of  bitter  satires  upon  King 
Nu*man  of  Hira  and  his  mother,  who  was  the 
daughter  of  a  goldsmith. 

'Amr  is  reported  to  have  attained  the  great  age 
of  a  hundred ;  and  to  his  descendants,  gathered 
round  his  death-bed,  he  thus  spoke :  "  I  have  lived 
longer  than  my  forefathers,  and  I  am  now  going  to 
join  them.  Hear,  then,  the  counsel  of  my  experi- 
ences.    Each  time  I  blamed  another,  I  was  the  object 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,        li. 

of  well-founded  or  ill-founded  blame.  He  who  attacks 
will  be  attacked:  guard,  therefore,  against  oflfending 
any  one.  Be  benevolent  and  hospitable  towards  your 
friends :  thus  you  will  gain  their  esteem.  It  is  better 
to' refuse  a  request,  than  to  promise  and  break  your 
word.  When  a  man  speaks  to  you,  listen  to  him 
attentively:  when  you  speak,  be  brief;  for  long 
speeches  are  not  free  of  folly.  The  bravest  warrior 
is  he  that  returns  to  the  attack ;  and  the  best  death  is 
that  on  the  battle-field." 

EL-HARITH 

the  son  of  Hilliza,*  when  over  a  hundred  years  old, 
but  still  comparatively  vigorous,  was  sent  to  the  court 
of  *Amr  son  of  Hind,  King  of  Hira,  to  represent  the 
tribe  of  Bakr  when  the  dispute  between  them  and 
the  Banu  Taglib  was  submitted  to  that  prince  as  arbiter. 
His  Mu'allaqa  contains  the  arguments  he  made  use  of 
on  that  occasion  in  behalf  of  his  tribe  j  and  such  was 
the  effect  of  his  reasoning,  his  eloquence,  and  skilful 
praise  of  the  prince  of  Hira,  that  the  royal  arbiter 
decided  in  favour  of  the  Banu  Bakr ;  and,  as  a  mark 
of  special  honour  to  the  poet,  the  prince  cast  off 
the  seven  veils  in  which  he  was  enveloped  during  the 
recitations  of  the  rival-chiefs,  and  caused  Harith  to 
sit  beside  him.  For  this  decision  there  is  reason 
to  believe  the  King  soon  afterwards  lost  his  life  at  the 

*  According  to  Sir  W.  Jones'  **  Genealogy  of  the  Seven 
Arabian  Poets."  D'Herbelot  {Bibliothique  OrUntale)  says  that 
he  was  "either  el-Harith  son  of  *Amr,  or  *Amr  son  of  el- Harith." 


lii.  INTRODUCTION. 


hand  of  'Amr  son  of  Kulthum,  as  has  been  akeady 
mentioned* 


It  has  been  said  of  translation  in  general  that  "the 
wrong  side  of  tapestry  will  represent  more  truly 
the  figures  on  the  right,  notwithstanding  the  floss  that 
blurs  them,  than  the  best  version  the  beauties  of  the 
original."  This  remark  would  seem  to  apply  with 
special  force  to  English  translations  of  early  Arabic 

*  The  order  in  which  the  several  poems  of  the  Mu^allaqat  are 
placed  seems  purely  arbitrary;    since   they  are  not  arranged 
either  according   to  merit,   date,   length,   or  the  rank  of  the 
authors.     In  the  order  of  poetical  merit,  doubtless  the  Qasida 
of  Imra'u-*1-Qays  would  still  retain  the  first  place;   that  of 
Lebid  would  come  next,   followed  by   'Antara,   Tarafa^  and 
Zuha)T ;    and   'Amr,   and  el-Hahth,  whose  compositions  are 
political  declamations  rather  than  eclogues,  would  occupy,  as 
they  do  at  present,  the  last  places  in  the  poetical  Pleiades.     If 
they  were  arranged  in  chronolc^cal  order,  they  would  probably 
stand  thus  :  Tarafa;  el-Harith;  *Amr;  'Antara;  Imra'u-'l-Qays ; 
Zuhayr ;  Lebid.     In  the  order  of  length :  'Amr,  whose  poem 
contains  io8  verses ;  Tarafa,  103 ;   Lebid,  89  ;  el-Harith,  85 ; 
*Antara,    81 ;    Imra'u-*1-Qays,    75 ;    and    Zuhayr,    64    verses. 
According   to  social   rank,    Imra*u-1-Qays  again  would    take 
precedence  of  the  others,   while   'Antara  would  occupy  the 
last  place,   as  being    the  son  of  a  slave-woman.      Between 
these  two  extremes — Imra'u-1-Qays,  the  prince,  and  Antara, 
the  son  of  a  slave— would  stand  the  five  others,  of  whom  at  least 
four  were  connected  with  the  court  of  Hira,  where  the  great 
poets  of  Arabia  assembled  in  the  century  before  the  time  of 
Muhammad. — In  some  editions  of  the  **  Seven  Poets  "  the  poems 
of  en-Nabiga  of  Dubyan  and  el-*Asha  take  the  places  of  those  of 
'Amr  and  el-Harith. 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS.      liii. 

poetry,  of  which  indistinctness  is  said  to  be  the  very 
essence.  "The  language,"  says  Burton,  "Mike  a 
faithful  wife,  following  the  mind,  and  giving  birth 
to  its  offspring,'  and  free  from  that  Muggage  of 
particles'  which  clogs  our  modem  tongues,  leaves  a 
mysterious  vagueness  between  the  relation  of  word 
to  word,  which  materially  assists  the  sentiment,  not 
sense,  of  the  poem.  When  verbs  and  nouns  have — 
each  one — many  different  significations,  only  the 
radical  or  general  idea  suggests  itself.  Rich  and 
varied  s)monyms,  illustrating  the  finest  shades  of 
meaning,  are  artfully  used :  now  scattered  to  strike 
us  by  distinctness;  now  to  form,  as  it  were,  a  star, 
about  which  dimly  seen  satellites  revolve."  Yet  even 
in  an  English  translation  the  more  striking  beauties  of 
the  Mu*ALLAQAT  are  not  altogether  lost 

The  Poem  of  Imra'u-'l-Qays  is  the  most  pictur- 
esque— even  dramatic — of  the  whole  seven:  it  presents 
a  series  of  scenes  of  desert  life,  graphic,  yet  without 
the  least  attempt  at  detail :  rapidly  sketched,  like  the 
cartoons  of  a  great  artist,  yet  full  of  colour  and 
vraisemblance,  like  finished  pictures.  We  see  the 
poet  at  supper  in  the  sandhills,  with  \he  maidens 
whom  he  had  surprised  at  their  primitive  bath ;  and 
while  they  all  ply  the  leathern  bottle  of  generous  wine, 
we  fancy  we  can  hear  their  merry  laughter  at  the  jests 
of  the  wild  young  prince.  We  follow  the  bold  youth 
at  midnight,  as  he  threads  his  way — not  without  a 
beating  heart — among  the  tents  of  a  hostile  tribe,  to 
the  dwelling  of  the  maiden  for  w^hose  sake  he  thus 


liY.  INTRODUCTION, 

carries  his  life  in  his  hand:  we  see  the  expectant 
damsel  (for  evidently  the  visit  was  pre-arranged) 
peeping  timidly  from  the  opening  of  her  tent :  we  see 
them  stealing  softly  away  together,  while  she  "  draws 
over  their  footsteps  the  train  of  her  pictured  robe." — 
A  weird  journey  through  the  desert  on  a  gloomy 
night,  when  the  darkness  seems  to  enfold  the  solitary 
wayfarer  as  with  a  garment,  and  he  starts  ever  and 
anon  at  the  gaunt  bones  of  camels  and  their  riders 
that  have  been  bleached  on  the  sands  by  the  noontide 
sun. — ^An  exciting  chase  of  the  wild  cow — z,  primitive 
feast  on  the  game — ^a  thunderstorm. 

Tarafa  is  the  only  one  of  the  Seven  Poets  who 
compares  camels  to  ships.  In  his  opening  verses,  the 
camels  that  bore  away  his  beloved  are  likened  to 
"  ships  sailing  from  Aduli "  \  and  in  verse  28,  he  says 
that  the  neck  of  his  own  camel  "  resembles  the  stem 
of  a  ship  floating  high  on  the  billowy  Tigris."  Nearly 
one  third  of  the  poem  is  taken  up  with  what 
Sir  W.  Jones  terms  **a  long  and  no  very  pleasing 
description'*  of  the  poet's  camel;  yet  we  must 
suppose  this  minute  detail  of  the  points  of  an  animal 
so  indispensable  to  desert  life  in  Arabia  to  have  been 
very  highly  appreciated  by  the  poet's  countrymen ; 
and  the  reader  is  recompensed  for  his  patience  by 
the  fine  simile  with  which  it  concludes :  "  She  floats 
proudly  along  with  her  flowing  tail,  as  the  dancing- 
girl  floats  at  the  banquet  of  her  lord,  and  spreads  the 
long  white  skirts  of  her  trailing  robe  " — a  simile  which 
suggests  a  pleasing  image  to  the  reader's  mind.    Afrer 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,       Iv. 

the  long  panegyric  on  his  camel,  the  poet  proceeds  to 
speak  of  his  own  prowess  in  battle;  then  to  hint  at  his 
pleasant  way  of  life,  in  company  of  gay  youths  like 
himself,  and  beautiful  singing-girls;  followed  by  a 
series  of  Horatian  maxims :  life  is  brief — therefore  let 
me  enjoy  the  fleeting  moments — let  me  drink  my  full 
draught  of  wine  to-day,  come  what  may  to-morrow. 
Once  more  he  refers  to  his  warlike  performances, 
armed  with  a  scimitar  which  is  no  mere  pruning-hook, 
but  the  genuine  brother  of  confidence — one  stroke  of 
which  renders  a  second  needless.  He  concludes  with 
a  sagacious  observation,  which  Muhammad  said  was 
prophetic  of  his  own  great  mission :  "  Time  will 
produce  events  of  which  thou  canst  have  no  idea ; 
and  he  to  whom  thou  gavest  no  commission  will  bring 
thee  unexpected  news."  * 

Bold  metaphor  is  a  marked  characteristic  of  the 
Poem  of  ZuHAYR — that  of  War  as  a  foul  monster, 
the  mother  of  twin-bom  Famine  and  Desolation,  being 
particularly  striking  and  apposite  :  not  less  so  perhaps 
is  the  poet's  description  of  the  contending  parties  in 
the  fierce  and  protracted  War  of  Dahis,  under  the 
figure  of  camels  driven  out  to  pasture  on  noxious 
weeds  and  to  drink  firom  foul  and  loathsome  pools. 
The  maxims  tagged  to  the  Poem,  for  the  most  part, 

•  A  "dark  "  saying,  which  seems  a  parallel  to  that  of  Agatho, 
who  remarks  that  '*  it  is  extremely  probable  that  the  most  impro- 
bable things  will  occur " ;  as  well  as  to  the  favourite  saying 
of  Lord  Beaconsfield,  that  "it  is  always  the  unexpected  that 
happens." 


Ivi.  INTRODUCTION, 


express  sentiments  such  as  must  ocair  to  all  thoughtful 
mindsj  matured  by  time  and  observation  of  life.* 

The  elegiac  verses  with  which  Lebid's  Poem  opens, 
by  their  natural  and  unembellished  touches  of  pathos, 
must,  even  in  an  English  translation,  come  home  to 
every  feeling  heart.  Six  of  the  Mu'allaqa  Poems 
commence  with  the  conventional  lament  for  the 
departure  of  a  mistress,  but  this  elegy  of  Lebid  excels 
them  all,  for  beauty  of  imagery  and  tenderness  of 
expression — contrasting  agreeably  with  the  artificial 
eclogues  of  some  modem  European  poets,  whose  aim 
has  been  rather  to  dazzle  by  contrast  of  words  and 
brilliancy  of  diction  than  to  reach  the  heart  by 
natural  thoughts  conveyed  in  natural  language.  His 
camel  the  poet  compares  to  a  wild  he-ass,  hastening 
with  his  mate  from  the  hills  after  the  winter  is  past ; 
and  to  a  wild  cow  chased  by  the  hunters.  Like  the 
Scottish  poet  Burns,  whose  large  heart  welled-up  in 
sympathy  for  all  natural  objects — a  crushed  daisy — ^a 
mined  field  mouse — little  birds  on  a  winter's  night — 
like  all  tme  poets,  the  old  Arabian  bard  could  feel 
pity  for  the  wild  cow  who  had  lost  her  young  one, 
and  who  passed  the  night  in  agony,  roaming  restlessly 
to  and  fro,  while  the  rain  fell  continuously  upon  her 
back.      There   is  no  such   humane  feeling  as  this 

*  Verse  62,  for  instance,  offers  a  parallel  to  the  well-known 
Greek  epigram  of  Palladias,  which  has  been  thus  rendered  into 
English  verse : 

A  blockhead  as  long  as  he  is  silent  is  wise ; 

For  his  talk  is  a  sore  he  should  hide  from  all  eyes. 


/ 

1 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS.     Ini. 

expressed  in  any  of  the  other  Poems,  unless  indeed 
it  be  in  that  of  'Antara,  who  seems  to  have  piti^  his 
wounded  steed,  who,  he  says,  upbraided  him  with 
his  eyes,  and  would  have  spoken  if  he  could.  Bright 
sketches  of  Arab  life  are  furnished  in  this  masterpiece 
of  early  poetry:  outlines,  but  boldly  and  clearly 
defined,  of  which  the  reader  is  left  to  fill  in  the 
details  from  his  own  imagination.  We  see  the  poet, 
chief  among  his  gay  companions  at  the  tavern, 
drinking  rich  wine  long  hoarded  in  leathern  bottles, 
while  the  nimble  fingers  of  the  fair  lutanist  skilfully 
touch  the  strings  of  her  instrument.  We  find  him 
superintending  the  gaming,  with  headless  and  feather- 
less  arrows,  for  camels,  which  the  poet  himself 
generously  provides  as  the  prizes.  We  see  him 
rise  early  in  the  morning  and  mount  his  horse,  to 
defend  his  tribe  against  invaders.  And  at  the 
opening  of  his  tent  we  behold  crowds  of  the  poor 
and  the  needy — the  widow  and  the  fatherless — all 
partaking  largely  of  his  bounty. 

The  Poem  of  'Antara  is  a  curious  medley  of 
gentle  pastoral  utterances  and  fierce  breathings 
of  slaughter  and  revenge.  The  passage  (vv.  14  to  19) 
in  which  the  poet  compares  the  mouth  of  his 
beloved  to  a  fragrant  bower,  which  the  gentle  rains 
have  kept  in  perennial  verdure,  is  perhaps  finer 
than  anything  in  the  other  six  Poems.  Interesting 
glimpses  of  Arab  life  are  afforded  us  in  this  mosaic 
of  poetical  fragments :  the  breaking  up  of  a  family- 
camp  in  the  desert  at  night — the  camels,  laden  and 


Iviii.  INTRODUCTION, 

bridled,  grazing  on  khimkhim  grains;  young  ostriches 
flocking  round  the  parent  male  bird,  like  a  herd  of 
black  camels  of  Yemen  assembling  at  the  call  of  their 
keeper :  the  poet-hero  quaffing  old  wine,  bought  with 
shining  coin  —  frequently  replenishing  his  crystal 
goblet  from  a  well-stoppered  jug:  a  stolen  interview 
with  a  beautiful  damsel  of  a  hostile  tribe :  protracted 
and  fierce  single  combats  with  the  most  renowned 
warriors. 

The  Poem  of  *Amr  the  son  of  Kulthum  is  the  only 
Mu'allaqa  which  does  not  begin  with  an  address  to  a 
real  or  imaginary  mistress.  'Amr  calls  loudly  for  his 
morning  draught  of  wine  in  a  capacious  goblet,  and 
goes  on  to  praise  the  magical  influence  of  the  generous 
beverage  in  causing  the  miser  to  forget  for  a  time  his 
golden  hoard,  and  in  diverting  even  the  lover  from 
his  passion.  Nevertheless  the  inevitable  departure 
of  his  mistress  is  referred  to,  and  her  charms  very 
minutely  described,  in  the  tenth  to  the  t^^^enty- 
second  verses.  The  rest  of  his  Poem  consists  of 
an  arrogant  panegyric  on  the  Banu  Taglib — their 
greatness  and  power,  rich  possessions  and  glorious 
achievements ;  and  the  beauty  of  their  women,  and 
the  high  estimation  in  which  they  were  held  by  all 
their  brave  warriors. 

Of  a  sober  and  staid  cast,  as  befitted  his  venerable 
years,  is  the  Poem  of  el-Harith,  in  reply  to  the 
intemperate  harangue  of  his  boastful  opponent  \  yet 
he  does  not  scruple  to  claim  for  his  tribe  all  the 
virtues  which  should  characterise  a  noble  race. 


THE  SE  VEN  OLD  ARABIC  PRIZE  POEMS,       lix. 


"  The  range  of  thought  in  the  early  Arab  poetry," 
remarks  Sir  William  Muir,*  "is  of  limited  extent. 
Past  experiences  and  the  sentiment  of  the  moment 
are  described  with  illustrations  drawn  from  pastoral 
life.  The  futiu'e  is  not  thought  of,  nor  is  the  attempt 
made  to  draw  lessons  from  the  past.  Childlike,  it 
is  in  the  present  that  the  Arab  poet  lives.  .  .  The 
pastoral  life  is  pictured  in  the  simple  imagery  of 
undisturbed  rural  scenery.  The  cavalcade,  bearing 
the  whole  worldly  goods  of  the  tribe — the  matrons 
and  maidens  borne  in  litters  on  the  camels'  backs — 
passes  along  the  desert  with  its  scant  and  scattered 
foliage  of  hardy  shrubs,  and,  after  a  weary  march, 
encamps,  it  may  be,  in  a  vale  where  the  springs 
break  forth  from  the  slope  of  an  adjacent  hill.  The 
clustering  tents  darken  the  background,  while  the 
grateful  fountain,  with  its  green  environs  and  its 
grove  of  date-trees,  stands  in  delightful  contrast  to 
the  wild  bleak  scenery  around.t  The  maidens  go 
forth  with  their  pitchers  to  the  spring ;  and  the  herds 
of  goats  return  with  full  udders  from  the  pasture,  or 
still  sweeter  but  scanty  foliage  of  the  stunted  acacia- 
trees. 

"Arab  life  lives,  truly,  a  life  of  its  own.  There 
is  no  advancing  civilization  wherewith  to  rehabilitate 

*  In  an  excellent  paper  on  "  Ancient  Arabic  Poetry," 
published  in  the  JoHmal  of  the  Royal  Asiatic  Society,  1879. 

t  And  they  came  to  Elim,  where  were  twelve  wells  of  water, 
and  three  score  and  ten  palm  trees ;  and  they  encamped  there 
by  the  waters. — Genesis  xv.  27. 


-A 


Ix.  INTRODUCTION. 


the  surrounding  imagery.  The  nearest  approach  in 
our  own  language  to  Arabian  Poetry  is  the  Book  of 
Job,  with  its  illustrations  of  the  conies,  the  goats,  and 
the  wild  ass;  and  even  such  is  still  the  life  of  the 
desert  at  the  present  day.  Cut  off  from  the  world 
by  wilderness  and  by  nomad  habits,  the  Arab 
maintains  unchanged  his  simplicity,  affected  as  little 
by  the  luxury  and  civilization  of  surrounding  nations 
as  by  their  politics.  The  eclogues  of  the  classics 
are  ever  bordering  upon  urban  life ;  but  here  the 
freshness  and  freedom  of  the  wild  desert  is  untainted 
by  the  most  distant  approach  of  the  busy  world. 
The  din  of  the  city,  even  the  munnur  of  the  rural 
hamlet,  is  unheard.  The  poet  is  unconscious  of  their 
existence." 


III.— GENUINENESS    OF    THE    EARLY 
ARABIC    POETRY. 


|IKE  the  Iliad  of  Homer,  which  was 
formed  from  the  songs  of  the  Rhapso- 
dists,  the  Qasidas  of  the  Mu'allaqat 
are  not  regular  compositions,  but  consist 
of  short  eiiusions  and  fragments  strung  together. 
But  there  is  this  difference,  remarks  Von  Hammer- 
Purgstall,  that  "  the  authorship  of  the  old  Arab  Prize 
Poems  has  been  undisputed;  and  no  Arabian  wolf 
has  torn  the  Mu'allaqat,  like  the  Iliad,  and  thrown 


K" 


GENUINENESS  OF  OLD  ARABIC  POE  TR  V.      Ixi. 


the  fragments  to  various  authors."  This  "differ- 
ence," however,  no  longer  exists;  for,  while  the 
authenticity  of  the  Mu'allaqat  as  a  whole  is  still 
allowed,  the  genuineness  of  certain  passages  is 
qjiestioned  by  distinguished  German  scholars.  And  if 
we  consider  that  the  songs  of  the  pre-Islamite  Arabs, 
like  the  Scottish  Border  Ballads,  were  preserved  for 
many  generations  by  oral  tradition  alone  (for  the  art 
of  writing,  although  known  among  the  tribes  of 
Arabia,  was  but  little  used),  it  will  appear  more  than 
probable  that  interpolations  exist  in  the  early  Arabic  1 
poetry.  When  the  collectors,  about  the  end  of 
the  seventh  century,  began  to  commit  the  songs  ) 
of  the  old  Arabs  to  writing,  they  found  only  frag- 
ments— but  very  numerous  firagments — remaining 
among  the  desert  tribes;  and  they  were  exposed  to 
very  much  the  same  kind  of  errors  and  even  frauds 
as  were  oiu:  own  literary  antiquaries  when  they  went 
about  the  pastoral  districts  gathering  fragments  of 
traditionary  ballads  from  the  lips  of  "  oldest  inhabi- 
tants " :  verses  of  one  particular  song  found  their 
way  into  another;  and  artful  rhymesters,  who  had 
a  fatal  knack  of  imitating  the  external  form  and 
language  of  the  old  Border  Ballads,  occasionally 
imposed  upon  enthusiastic  and  all  too  credulous 
collectors  of  legendary  ballad  lore.  In  like  manner, 
it  would  seem  that  the  collectors  of  early  Arab 
poetry  were  sometimes  the  dupes  of  knavish  Rawis, 
or  Reciters,  many  of  whom  were  themselves  no  mean 
poets,  but  could   extemporaneously  compose  verses 


/ 


IxiL  INTRODUCTION, 


SO  like  in  style  and  sentiment  to  the  genuine  old 
poetry  as  to  render  detection  almost  impossible. 
Nor  are  the  collectors  even  above  suspicion  of 
helping  out  the  sense  of  an  obscure  fragment  by 
interweaving,  here  and  there,  a  verse  or  two  of  their 
own  composition. 

Professor  Ahlwardt,  Herr  Von  Kremer,  and  other 
eminent  German  Orientalists  have  of  late  years  sub- 
jected the  reliques  of  ancient  Arabic  poetry  to  a 
thorough  critical  examination,  with  the  object  of 
separating  the  spurious  from  the  genuine  verses. 
The  sudden  transition  from  one  subject  to  another, 
so  common  in  the  longer  qasidas,  furnished  most 
favourable  opportunities  for  interpolation.  To  dis- 
tinguish such  interpolated  passages  must  necessarily 
be  a  work  of  no  small  diffiailty ;  and  very  frequently 
the  student  can  only  detect  errors  and  inaccuracies 
by  finding  the  rules  of  Qasida  composition  violated. 
For  instance,  only  the  hemistichs  of  the  opening 
hayt,  or  couplet,  should  rhyme  ^vith  each  other; 
and  if  two  or  more  such  couplets  are  found  in  the 
same  poem,  they  must  be  interpolations,  or  opening 
verses  of  other  poems.  Again,  it  is  the  rule,  with 
very  few  exceptions  (for  which  there  are  always 
obvious  reasons),  that  a  Qasida  begin  with  an 
address  to  a  mistress — lamenting  Ker  departure, 
[enerallj;  and  where  this  is  wanting  "the  poem  is 
incomplete,  if  not  altogether  spurious.  But  errors 
of  this  kind  must  be  obvious  to  every  student,  and 
require  no  great  critical  acumen  for  their  discovery. 


7^ 


GENUINENESS  OF  OLD  ARABIC  FOE  TR  K    Ixiii. 

A  much  more  difficult  task  is,  the  recognition  and 
separation  of  verses  which  have  been  ingeniously 
composed  and  inserted  by  the  Reciters,  or  even  by 
the  collectors,  in  order  to  connect  firagments  together. 
It  is  not  easy  to  bring  to  the  investigation  of  such 
a  subject  as  this  a  mind  perfectly  unprejudiced. 
If  the  student  brings  to  his  task  a  pre-conceived 
notion  of  what  the  old  Arabs  would  (or  should)  say 
about  certain  things,  and  finds  in  the  poetry  senti- 
ments which  go  against  his  theory,  he  is  prone  to 
consider  them  as  interpolations;  and  thus,  con- 
sciously or  unconsciously,  the  critic,  in  the  process 
of  investigation,  will  be  more  disposed  to  establish 
his  theory  than  to  elicit  the  truth.  But  the  learned 
Orientalists  who  are  engaged  in  sifting  the  early 
Arab  poetry  are  certainly  actuated  by  no  such 
narrow  motives;  and  the  importance  of  the  work 
they  have  undertaken  can  hardly  be  over-rated; 
since,  without  being  assured  of  the  genuineness  of 
the  pre-Islamite  poetical  remains,  accurate  knowledge 
of  the  old  Arabs  themselves  is  impossible.  Never- 
theless, some  of  the  conclusions  at  which  they  have 
arrived  have  been  questioned  by  other  scholars. 

We  are  told  that  the  collectors  and  critics  were  led 
by  a  strong  religious  sentiment  to  eliminate  from  the 
early  poetry  all  allusions  to  pagan  customs  and  false 
deities ;  yet  in  two  of  the  Seven  Prize  Poems  refer- 
ences to  pagan  superstitions  still  remain.  Lebid,  in 
verse  76  of  his  Poem,  alludes  to  the  "camel  doomed 
to  die  at  her  master's  tomb  " ;  and  'Antara,  verse  70, 


A 


bdv.  INTRODUCTION, 

refers  to  the  pagan  superstition  of  "birds  of  the 
brain,"  a  belief  strictly  forbidden  by  the  Qur'an.* 
In  the  Romance  of  ^Antar^  said  to  have  been  com- 
posed in  the  8th  century,  allusions  to  pagan  deities 
and  idolatrous  customs  of  the  old  Arabs  are  very 
frequent ;  but  perhaps  the  "  strong  religious  senti- 
ment "  had  evaporated  on  the  introduction  of  profane 
science  into  Islam.  However,  if  the  collectors  were 
imbued  with  so  fervent  a  religious  spirit  as  to  eliminate 
references  to  idolatry  from  the  early  poetry,  it  seems 
strange  that  they  should  have  allowed  the  numerous 
allusions  to  wine-drinking  to  remain  :  for  the  frequent 
mention  of  wine  in  modem  Oriental  poetry  is  to  be 
explained  by  its  mystical  meaning. 

But  the  same  pious  critics,  who  so  carefully 
eliminated  from  the  poetry  all  reference  to  pagan 
superstitions,  substituted,  it  is  said,  sentiments  in 
consonance  with  the  doctrines  of  the  Qur'an.  This, 
it  is  well  known,  was  done  by  the  authors  of  the 
Thousand  and  One  Nights,   in   the    case   of   Tales 

*  In  verse  57  of  his  Mu'allaqa,  Imra*u-*1-Qays,  according  to 
Sir  W.  Jones'  translation,  alludes  to  idolatrous  rites  :  "  virgins, 
in  black  trailing  robes,  who  dance  round  [the  idol]  Dewaar "  ; 
but  this  rendering  seems  to  be  erroneous.     The  original — 

fa  'anna  la  nd  sir5un,  ka-anna  ni'dja  hu 
*adhdr^  dawdrinfi  tneldHn  mudhayyali 

is  thus  translated  by  Mr.  J.  W.  Redhouse  : 

"  Then  there  appeared  unto  us  a  herd  [of  wild  oxen],  the 
heifers  whereof  [from  their  tails]  were,  as  it  were,  maidens  of 
Da  war  in  long-trained  mantles. " 


•^ 


GENUINENESS  OF  OLD  ARABIC  POE  TR  V,     Ixv. 

derived  from  Hindu  sources ;  but  it  does  not  follow 
that  the  native  poetry  of  the  old  Arabs  was  treated 
after  the  same  manner.  Herr  Von  Kremer  takes 
exception  to  verses  27  and  28  of  Zuhayfs  Mu'allaqa, 
in  which  mention  is  distinctly  made  of  the  omniscience 
of  God  and  of  the  Book  of  Reckoning,  as  being  alien 
from  the  spirit  of  the  old  poetry.  The  same  objec- 
tion, if  just,  would  also  apply  to  verses  85  and  86  of 
Lebid,  where  the  dispensations  of  Providence  are 
recognised,  and  to  verse  25  of  Imra'u-'l-Qays,  and 
verse  81  of  Tarafa,  where  the  Creator  is  plainly 
mentioned.  But,  besides  their  numerous  false  deities 
— ^for  which  the  Arabs  seem  to  have  entertained  but 
small  reverence  about  the  period  when  Muhammad 
began  his  great  mission — there  existed,  more  or  less, 
among  the  several  tribes  of  the  Peninsula  a  belief 
in  Allah — t^g  God.  Indeed,  as  Mr.  C.  J.  Lyall  has 
very  justly  observed,*  "  without  assuming  such  a  faith 
as  already  well  known  to  the  people,  a  great  portion 
of  the  Qur'an  would  be  impossible :  that  revelation 
is  addressed  to  men  who  join  other  gods  with  God, 
not  to  those  who  deny  Him;"  and  to  bring  them 
back  to  the  worship  of  the  one  sole  God — to  con- 
centrate their  faith  in  Him  alone — ^was  the  great 
object  of  the  Prophet's  mission. 

That  the  remains  of  Ancient  Arabic  Poetry  have 
been  tampered  with — altered  and  interpolated — by 
the  grammarians,   collectors,   critics,   and   others,  is 

*  In  the  interesting  and  valuable  Notes  to  his  translation  of 
Zuhayr's  Mu'allaqa:  yournal  of  thQ  Bengal  Asiatic  Society,  1877. 

e 


i 


kvi.  INIRODUCTION. 


now,  however,  proved  most  clearly :  such  is  also  the 
case  with  our  own  early  traditionary  poetry;  and 
human  nature  is  essentially  the  same  in  Bussora 
and  Kufa,  and  in  London  and  Edinburgh.  But  it  is 
gratifying  to  know,  on  the  authority  of  so  learned, 
acute,  and  painstaking  a  scholar  as  Professor  Ahlwardt, 
that,  while  much  of  the  so-called  Ancient  Arabic 
Poetry  is  decidedly  spurious,  and  not  a  little  doubtful, 
there  still  remains  much  that  is  the  genuine  offspring 
of  the  imtutored  but  brilliant  and  vigorous  genius  of 
the  pre-Islamite  bards. 


IV.— ARABIAN    LITERATURE    UNDER 
THE    KHALIFATE. 

URING  most  part  of  the  first  century 
after  the  rise  of  Islam,  the  successors 
of  Muhammad  were  too  much  engrossed 
in  extending  their  dominions  to  bestow 
any  patronage  on  science  and  literatiu-e.  The 
standard  of  pure  Arabic  had  been  early  fixed  by 
the  grammarians  of  Bussora  and  Kufa,  who,  for  this 
purpose  only,  collected  firagments  of  the  pre-Islamite 
poetry  that  still  lived  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  of 
Yaman  and  Hijaz;  but  under  the  dynasty  of  *Umayya, 
Arabian  literature  was  confined  to  commentaries  on 
the  Qur'an  and  poetry  in  the  native  language.  "But,*' 
says  Abu-'l-Faraj,  "when  God  called  the  family  of 


LITERATURE  UNDER  THE KHAUFATE,  Ixvii. 

Hashim  [/>.,  the  house  of  'Abbas]  to  the  government, 
and  surrendered  to  them  the  command,  the  hearts 
returned  from  their  indolence,  the  minds  awoke  from 
their  torpor."  Under  the  patronage  of  El-Mansur, 
the  second  Khalif  of  the  house  of  *Abbas,  the  study 
of  profane  science  was  begun,  and  his  zeal  for  the 
advancement  of  learning  was  imitated  by  his  suc- 
cessors. Indeed  it  is  usually  said  that  Arabian 
literature  arose,  as  well  as  flourished  and  decayed, 
with  this  d)masty,  which  continued  from  a-d.  749 
till  1258.  The  literary  treasures  of  Ancient  Persia 
that  had  escaped  destruction  at  the  hands  of  the 
early  Muslim  conquerors  were  now  even  more 
esteemed  than  they  were  formerly  despised.  It  was 
during  the  reign  of  El-Mansur  (a.  d.  754-775) 
that  the  Pahlavi  version  of  the  celebrated  Hindu 
Fables  of  Vishnusarman  was  translated  into  Arabic, 
under  the  title  of  Kaliia  wa  Dimna — ^a  work  which 
has  since  been  rendered  into  more  languages  than 
any  book  extant,  with  the  sole  exception  of  the 
Bible.  In  the  same  century,  El-Asma%  the  &mous 
philologer  and  poet,  wrote  the  great  chivalric  romance 
of  ^Antar.  Early  in  the  ninth  century,  El-Ma'mun, 
the  seventh  Khalif  of  the  family  of  *Abbas,  founded 
academies  at  Bagdad,  Bussora,  Kufa,  and  Bukhara, 
and  caused  the  writings  of  Aristotle,  Hippocrates, 
Galen,  Dioscorides,  Theophrastus,  Euclid,  Archi- 
medes, and  Ptolemy  to  be  translated  into  Ambic. 
"  He  was  not  ignorant,"  remarks  Abu-'l-Faraj,  "  that 
they  are  the  elect  of  God — His  best  and  most  useful 


-^ 


Ixviii.  INTRODUCTION, 


servants — ^whose  lives  are  devoted  to  the  improve- 
ment of  their  rational  faculties.  .  .  The  teachers  of 
wisdom  are  the  true  luminaries  and  legislators  of  a 
world  which  without  their  aid  would  again  sink  into 
ignorance  and  barbarism."  About  this  period  also 
were  erected  at  Bagdad  and  Damascus  observatories 
for  the  study  of  astronomy.  And  a  generous  vazir 
built,  at  the  cost  of  200,000  pieces  of  gold,  a  magnifi- 
cent college  at  Bagdad,  and  endowed  it  with  a  yearly 
income  of  15,000  dinars.  At  this  establishment,  it 
is  said,  several  thousands  of  students,  from  the  sons 
of  noblemen  to  the  sons  of  mechanics,  were  at  the 
same  time  instructed  in  all  the  learning  of  the  age ; 
the  professors  were  in  the  receipt  of  adequate 
stipends,  and  ample  provision  was  made  for  indigent 
students. 

From  Samarkand  and  Bukhara  to  Fez  and  Cordova, 
the  entire  Muslim  empire  was  full  of  song  :  intellectual 
life  was  healthy  and  vigorous.  Poetry,  although  it 
had  lost  the  freshness  of  the  desert,  now  took  a  wider 
range,  and,  no  longer  dwelling  solely  in  the  present, 
became  reflective,  and  ultimately  philosophical.*    The 


•  The  sentiments  expressed  in  the  Arabian  didactic  poetry  are 
always  jast ;  being  based  on  an  intimate  acquaintance  with 
human  nature,  and  an  accurate  observation  of  the  course  of 
life.  The  subjects  are  necessarily  those  which  have  formed 
the  chief  themes  of  moralists  fix)m  Solomon  downwards :  they 
*' lament  the  deceitfulness  of  hope,  the  fugacity  of  pleasure, 
and  the  frequency  of  calamity ;  and  for  palliatives  of  these 
incurable  miseries,  they  recommend  kindness,  temperance,  and 


X 


LITER  A  TURE  UNDER  THE  KHALIFA  TE,    Ixix. 

courts  of  the  Khalifs  at  Bagdad  were  adorned  with  a 
brilliant  constellation  of  men  of  learning  and  genius, 
drawn  thither  from  all  parts  of  the  world.  Nor 
were  these  princes  merely  the  liberal  and  enlight- 
ened patrons  of  science  and  literature :  many  were 
themselves  poets  of  very  considerable  genius,  and 
proficients  in  the  theory  and  practice  of  music 
The  descendants  of  the  fanatics  who  ruthlessly 
destroyed  the  famous  library  at  Alexandria,  and  all 
but  annihilated  the  ancient  literature  of  Persia, 
became,  during  the  Dark  Ages  of  European  history, 
the  zealous  and  intelligent  conservators  of  the  remains 
of  the  learning  of  antiquity.  And  at  a  period  when 
a  single  copy  of  the  Bible  was  valued  at  a  sum 
equivalent  to  the  cost  of  building  an  ordinary  church, 
and  when  many  of  the  Christian  priests  of  Europe 
mumbled  over  masses  which  they  could  not  under- 
stand, the  library  of  the  Muslim  Kings  of  Spain 
contained  600,000  volumes,  and  there  were  70  public 
libraries  in  the  cities  of  Andalusia ;  while  the  library 
of  the  Egyptian  Sultans  comprised   100,000  manu- 

fortitude."  But  these  familiar  lessons  of  life  have  an  additional 
force  when  they  are  accompanied,  as  in  many  of  the  Arabian 
poems,  by  illustrations  which  attract  by  their  novelty,  and 
interest  and  impress  the  heart  by  their  beauty  and  apposite- 
ness. — Not  less  striking  are  the  similitudes  employed  in  the 
lighter  efiiisions ;  as,  for  example,  the  comparison  of  the  blue 
eyes  of  a  beautiful  woman  weeping  to  violets  dropping  dew ; 
or  of  wine,  before  it  is  mixed,  to  the  cheek  of  a  mistress,  and, 
after  the  water  is  added,  to  the  paleness  of  a  lover. 


bcx.  INTRODUCTION, 

scripts,  beautifully  transcribed  and  elegantly  bound, 
which  were  freely  lent  to  the  scholars  of  Cairo.* 

The  false  sciences  of  astrology  and  alchemy, 
to  which  the  Arabians  (and,  in  imitation  of  them, 
European  dreamers)  were  so  long  ardently  devoted 
— ^fondly  hoping,  by  means  of  the  first,  to  read 
the  secrets  of  futurity  in  the  movements  of  the 
planets,  and,  by  the  latter,  to  discover  the  arts  of 
transmuting  the  baser  metals  into  pure  gold  and 
of  indefinitely  prolonging  life — these,  it  is  well  known, 
led  to  most  important  discoveries,  and  finally  to  the 
exact  sciences  of  astronomy  and  chemistry. 

To  the  descendants  of  the  enlightened  Muslims 
who  settled  in  Spain  early  in  the  eighth  century 
are  Europeans  indebted  for  not  a  few  useful  arts 
and  appliances  of  daily  life;  among  others,  for  the 
art  of  making  paper  from  cotton,  which  rendered 
practicable  the  noble  art  of  printing — ^the  cheap  multi- 
plication of  books.  And  the  Arabic  decimal  system 
of  numerical  notation  (for  which  the  Arabians  them- 
selves were  indebted  to  the  Hindus)  was  introduced 
into  Europe  by  Gilbert  of  Aurillac,  afterwards  Pope 

•  Yet  such  was  the  extreme  scarcity  of  books  in  England  at 
a  later  period,  that  a  manuscript,  dated  1250,  which  is  still 
preserved,  containing  the  Proverbs  of  Solomon,  Ecclesiastes, 
Canticles,  and  Wisdom  (one  of  the  books  of  the  Apocrypha), 
bears  the  foUowing  inscription:  **This  book  belongs  to  the 
monastery  of  Rochester  ;  given  by  the  prior  John.  If  any 
remove  it,  or  conceal  it  when  taken  away,  or  fraudulently 
efiace  this  inscription,  let  him  be  anathema,  Amen. " 


K 


LITER  A  TURE  UNDER  THE  KHAUFA  TE.    Ixxi. 

Sylvester  II.,  who  studied  at  the  Muslim  university  of 
Cordova  in  the  tenth  century.  It  was  moreover 
through  Arabic  versions  in  Spain  that  the  attention 
of  the  schoolmen  was  first  drawn  to  the  writings  of 
Aristotle. 

But  especially  in  European  literature  is  the  influence 
of  the  Arabians  to  be  clearly  traced.  The  Trouvferes 
of  northern  France  and  their  tuneful  brethren  the  gay 
Troubadours  of  sunny  Provence,  whose  genius  kindled 
the  torch  of  Italian  literature,  were  largely  indebted 
to  the  wondrous  fictions  and  the  brilliant  poetry  of  the 
East  for  the  groimdwork  of  their  Fabliaux  and 
the  fancifiil  allusions  in  their  Lays,  In  short,  the 
fascinating  fictions  of  the  Arabians  had  permeated 
the  literature  of  Europe  from  a  very  early  period  j 
and  the  worthy  ecclesiastic,  who  read  to  his  congre- 
gation the  "  moral  tales "  of  the  Gesta  Romanarutny 
little  dreamt  that  he  was  repeating  the  ingenious 
inventions  of  the  hated  Muslims  and  of  the  despised 
race  of  Abraham ; — ^for  many  of  the  stories  in  that 
famous  mediaeval  collection  are  derived  from  Arabian 
and  Talmudic  sources. 


It  is  usual  for  a  sketch  of  Arabian  literature  to 
conclude  somewhat  in  this  manner :  ''  On  the  fall  of 
the  IChalifate,  a.h.  656  (a.d.  1258),  literatiu-e  rapidly 
declined  in  the  East :  it  was  still  cultivated,  however, 
under  the  rule  of  the  Sultans  of  Egypt,  but  with 
indifferent  success;  and  on  the  eruption  of  the 
Turks,   the   sun  of  Oriental    learning  was  virtually 


t 


borii.  INTRODUCTION. 


extinguished."  But  it  is  utterly  false  to  say  that 
Arabian  literatiure  was  extinguished  (or  "  irrecoverably 
blighted,"  as  Dr.  Carlyle  expresses  it)  by  the  Turks. 
*'  Timur  and  his  successors  in  the  East,"  writes  Mr. 
Redhouse,  the  greatest  living  authority  on  this  vast 
subject,  "  as  the  Osmanlis  in  the  West,  were  patriotic 
enough  to  love  their  own  beautiful  language  and  to 
use  it  for  all  daily  and  literary  purposes;  but  they 
patronised  crowds  of  Persian  poets  and  of  Arabian 
grammarians,  legists,  &c.  Arabic,  being  no  longer 
dominant,  had  now  only  a  share  of  attention,  but  this 
was  a  very  large  share — ^the  scientific ;  as  Persian  had 
the  ornamental,  and  Turkish  the  useful.  Colleges 
innumerable  were  founded,  for  Arabic,  in  Turkey, 
in  India,  in  Persia,  in  Russia — all  by  Turks.  The 
Softas  of  Constantinople  are  all  collegians,  studying 
Arabic  alone." 

A  popular  English  history  of  Arabian  literature  is  a 
great  desideratum.  Germans  have  long  had  the  rich 
stores  of  Arabic  Poetry  laid  before  them  by  the  zeal 
and  industry  of  Von  Hammer-Purgstall  and  later 
scholars,  among  whom  Ahlwardt,  Von  Kremer,  and 
Riikert  are  pre-eminent.  Yet  England  can  at  the 
present  day  boast  of  a  trio  not  less  distinguished  for 
ripe  scholarship,  in  Chenery,  Palmer,  and  Wright: 
may  we  hope  that  these  great  Arabists  will,  at  no 
distant  date,  open  up  for  their  unlearned  countrymen 
the  treasiures  of  Arabian  literature  ? 


V 


This  Table  is  reprinted  from  the  Genealogy  prefixed  to 
Sir  W.  Jones'  translation  of  the  Mu'ALLAQAT^as  given  in  the 
tenth  volume  of  the  octavo  edition  of  his  works.  The  mode  of 
transliterating  Arabic  proper  names  adopted  by  Sir  W.  Jones  is 
different  from  most  of  the  systems  in  use  among  modem  English 
Arabists :  the  letter  Qaf  he  represents  by  K,  and  Kdf  by  C ; 
*Ayn^  for  which  there  is  no  corresponding  letter  in  our 
alphabet,  and  which  is  now  generally  represented  by  [']  or, 
when  Hamza  is  not  represented,  by  fl  he  seems  often  to  trans- 
literate by  Az,  or  4 ;  and  the  strongly  aspirated  Hd^  by  hK 

It  has  been  remarked,  in  the  first  section  of  the  Introduction, 
that  those  Arabs  who  claim  to  be  descended  frt)m  Ishmael 
usually  trace  their  genealogies  no  higher  than  'Adnan,  because 
of  the  uncertainty  of  the  descents  between  'Adnan  and  Ishmael. 
According  to  Sale,  **  the  most  approved  series  enumerates  eight 
gentrations  between  these  two  persons,  in  the  following  order : 
IsBiASL,  Kidftr,  Hamal,  Nabet,  Salimlb,  al-Homeisa,  al-Yas&, 
Odady  Odd,  Adnan." 


THE 


MOALLAK  At, 


OR 


Seven  Arabian  Poems, 

WHICH  WERE  SUSPENDED  ON 

THE    TEMPLE    AT    MECCA. 


TRANSLATED,     WITH    ARGUMENTS, 

BY 

SIR    WILLIAM    JONES. 


The  Poems  entitled  Almoallakat  exhibit  an  exact 
picture  of  their  vi^rfues  and  their  vices ^  their  wisdom 
and  their  folly;  and  show  what  may  be  constantly 
expected  from  men  of  open  hearts  and  boiling  passions^ 
with  no  law  to  control^  and  little  religion  to  restrain 
Ihem. — Sir  W.  Jones  :  Discourse  on  The  Arabs. 


THE 


POEM 


OF 


AMRIOLKAIS 


-♦♦■ 


THE    ARGUMENT. 


THE  Poet,  after  the  manner  of  his  countrymen,  supposes 
himself  attended  on  a  journey  by  a  company  of  friends ; 
and  as  they  pass  near  a  place  where  his  mistress  had 
lately  dwelled,  but  from  which  her  tribe  was  then  removed, 
he  desires  them  to  stop  awhile,  that  he  might  indulge  the 
painful  pleasure  of  weeping  over  the  deserted  remains  of  her 
tent.  They  comply  with  his  request,  but  exhort  him  to  show 
more  strength  of  mind,  and  urge  two  topics  of  consolation, 
namely,  that  he  had  before  been  equally  unhappy,  and  that  he 
had  enjoyed  his  full  share  of  pleasures.  Thus,  by  recollection 
of  his  past  delight,  his  imagination  is  kindled,  and  his  grief 
suspended. 

He  then  gives  his  friends  a  lively  account  of  his  juvenile 
frolics,  to  one  of  which  they  had  alluded.  It  seems  he  had 
been  in  love  with  a  girl  named  Onaiza,  and  had  in  vain  sought 
an  occasion  to  declare  his  passion.     One  day,  when  her  tribe 


THE  MOALLAJCAT. 


had  struck  their  tents,  and  were  changing  their  station,  the 
women,  as  usual,  came  behind  the  rest,  with  the  servants  and 
baggage,  in  carriages  fixed  on  the  backs  of  camels.  Amriolkais^ 
advanced  slowly  at  a  distance,  and,  when  the  men  were  out  of 
sight,  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  Onaiza  retire  with  a  party  of 
damsels  to  a  rivulet  or  pool,  called  Daratjuljul,  where  they 
undressed  themselves,  and  were  bathing,  when  the  lover  ap- 
peared, dismounted  from  his  camel,  and  sat  upon  their  clothes, 
proclaiming  aloud  that  whoever  would  redeem  her  dress  must 
present  herself  naked  before  him. 

They  adjured,  entreated,  expostulated;  but,  when  it  grew  late, 
they  found  themselves  obliged  to  submit,  and  all  of  them 
recovered  their  clothes  except  Onaiza,  who  renewed  her  adjur- 
ations, and  continued  a  long  time  in  the  water :  at  length  she 
also  performed  the  condition,  and  dressed  herself.  Some  hours 
had  passed,  when  the  girls  complained  of  cold  and  hunger. 
Amriolkais  therefore  instantly  killed  the  young  camel  on  which 
he  had  ridden,  and  having  called  the  female  attendants  together, 
made  a  fire  and  roasted  him.  The  afternoon  was  spent  in  gay 
conversation,  not  without  a  cheerful  cup,  for  he  was  provided 
with  wine  in  a  leathern  bottle.  But,  when  it  was  time  to  follow 
the  tribe,  the  prince  (for  such  was  his  rank)  had  neither  camel 
nor  horse ;  and  Onaiza,  after  much  importunity,  consented  to 
take  him  on  her  camel,  before  the  carriage,  while  the  other 
damsels  divided  among  themselves  the  less  agreeable  burden  of 
his  arms  and  the  furniture  of  his  beast. 

He  next  relates  his  courtship  of  Fatima,  and  his  more  danger- 
ous amour  with  a  girl  of  a  tribe  at  war  with  his  own,  whose 
beauties  he  very  minutely  and  luxuriantly  delineates.  From 
these  love-tales  he  proceeds  to  the  commendation  of  his  own 
fortitude,  when  he  was  passing  a  desert  in  the  darkest  night ; 
and  the  mention  of  the  morning  which  succeeded  leads  him  to  a 
long  description  of  his  hunter,  and  of  a  chase  in  the  forest, 
followed  by  a  feast  on  the  game  which  had  been  pierced  by  his 
javelins. 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRIOLKAJS, 


Here  his  narrative  seems  to  be  interrupted  by  a  storm  of 
lightning  and  violent  rain  ; — he  nobly  describes  the  shower,  and 
the  torrent  which  it  produced  down  all  the  adjacent  mountains ; 
and,  his  companions  retiring  to  avoid  the  storm,  the  drama  (for 
the  poem  has  the  form,  of  a  dramatic  pastoral)  ends  abruptly. 


The  metre  is  of  Ubit  first  species,  called  lot^  verse,  and  consists 
of  the  bacckius  or  amphibrachys^  followed  by  the  first  epUrite; 
•or,  in  the  fourth  and  eighth  places  of  the  distich,  by  the  doMe 
iambus,  the  last  syllable  being  considered  as  a  long  one :  the 
regular  form,  taken  from  the  second  chapter  of  "  Commentaries 
on  Asiadc  Poetry,"  is  this : 

''Amator  |  puellarum  |  miser  sae  |  pe  fallitur 
Ocellis  I  nigris,  labris  I  odoris,  |  nigris  comis." 


THE    POEM    OF    AMRIOLKAIS. 

'AY  I — Let  us  weep  at  the  remembrance  of 
our  beloved,  at  the  sight  of  the  station 
where  her  tent  was  raised^  by  the  edge 
of  yon  bending  sands  between  Dahul 

2.  liTudanx  and  Mikra ;  a  station^  the  marks  of 
which  are  not  wholly  effaced,  though  the  south  wind 
and  the  north  have  woven  the  twisted  sand." 

3.  Thus  I  spokey  when  my  companions  stopped 
their  coursers  by  my  side,  and  said :  "  Perish  not 
through  despair  :  only  be  patient" 

4.  "A  profusion  of  tears,"  answered  /,  "is  my 
sole  relief;  but  what  avails  it  to  shed  them  over  the 
remains  of  a  deserted  mansion  ?  " 

5.  "Thy  condition,"  they  replied^  "is  not  more 
painful  than  when  thou  leftest  Howaira,  before  thy 
present  passion,  and  her  neighbour  Rebaba,^/r  the 
hills  of  Ma^el." 

6.  "Yes"  I  rejoined,  "when  those  two  damsels 
departed^,  musk  was  diffused  from  their  robes,  as  the 
eastern  gale  sheds  the  scent  of  clove-gillyflowers : 

7.  "  Then  gushed  the  tears  from  my  eyes,  through 
excess  of  regret,  and  flowed  down  my  neck,  till  my 
sword-belt  was  drenched  in  the  stream." 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRIOLKAIS. 


8.  ''Yet  hast  thou  passed  many  days  in  sweet 
converse  with  the  fair :  but  none  so  sweet  as  the  day 
which  thou  spentest  by  the  pool  of  DaratjuljuL" 

9.  On  that  day  I  killed  my  camel,  to  give  the 
virgins  a  f<gft^t:  and,  oh  I  how  strange  was  it  that 
they  should  carry  his  trappings  and  furniture  ! 

10.  The  damsels  continued  till  evening  helping 
one  another  to  the  roasted  flesh,  and  to  the  delicate 
fat,  like  the  fringe  of  white  silk  finely  woven. 

11.  On  that  happy  day  I  entered  the  carriage, 
the  carriage  of  Onaiza,  who  said  :  "  Wo  to  thee  !  thou 
wilt  compel  me  to  travel  on  foot." 

12.  She  added  (while  the  vehicle  was  bent  aside 
with  our  weight),  "O  Amriolkais,  descend,  or  my 
beast  also  will  be  killed ! " 

13.  I  answered:  "Proceed,  and  loosen  his  rein; 
nor  withhold  from  me  the  fruits  of  thy  love,  which  again 
and  again  may  be  tasted  with  rapture. 

14.  "Many  a  fair  one  like  thee — though  not,  like 
thee,  a  virgin — ^have  I  visited  by  night ;  and  many  a 
lovely  mother  have  I  diverted  from  the  care  of  her 
yearling  infant,  adorned  with  amulets  : 

15.  "When  the  suckling  behind  her  cried,  she 
turned  round  to  him  with  half  her  body ;  but  half  of 
it,  pressed  beneath  my  embrace,  was  not  turned  from 
me. 

16.  Delightful,  too,  was  the  day  when  Fadma  first 
rejected  me  on  the  summit  of  yon  sand-hill,  and  took 
an  oath,  which  she  declared  inviolable. 


THE  MOALLAKAT. 


17.  ''O  Fatimal"  said  I,  '^away  with  so  much 
coyness ;  and  if  thou  hadst  resolved  to  abandon  me, 
yet  at  last  relent ! 

18.  ''If  indeed  my  disposition  and  manners  are 
unpleasing  to  thee,  rend  at  once  the  mantle  of  my 
hearty  that  it  may  be  detached  fix)m  thy  love. 

19.  ''Art  thou  so  haughty,  because  my  MSglfl" 
for  thee  destroys  me;  and  because  whatever  thou 
commandest  my  heart  performs? 

20.  "  Thou  weepest;  yet  thy  tears  flow  merely  to 
wound  my  heart  with  the  shafts  of  thine  eyes — my 
heart,  already  broken  to  pieces  and  agonizing." 

21.  Besides  these^  with  many  a  spotless  virgin,  whose 
tent  had  not  yet  been  frequented,  have  I  held  soft 
dalliance  at  perfect  leisure. 

^""•^ ■!■     <    Hill      I 

22.  To  visit  one  of  them^  I  passed  the^uards  of  her 
bower,  and  ajiostile  tribe,  who  would  have  been  eager 
to  proclaim  my  death. 

23.  ^Jt  W4$  the  hour  when  the  Pleiads  appeared  in 
the  firmament,  like  the  folds  of  a  silken  sash  variously 
decked  with  gems. 

24.  I  approached :  she  stood  eo^ecting  me  by  the 
curtain ;  and,  as  if  she  was  preparing  for  sleep,  had 
put  off  all  her  vesture  but  her  night-dress. 

25.  She  said :  "  By  Him  who  created  me,"  and 
gave  me  her  lovely  han3,  '^Tam  unable  to  refuse  thee ; 
for  I  perceive  that  the  blindness  of  thy  passion  is  not 
to  be  removed." 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRIOLKAJS. 


a6.  Then  I  rose  with  her;  and  as  we  walked 
she  drew  over  our  footsteps  the  train  of  her  pictured 
robe. 

27.  Soon  as  we  had  passed  the  habitations  of  her 
tribe,  and  come  to  the  bosom  of  a  vale,  surrounded  with 
hillocks  of  spiry  sand, 

38.  I  gently  drew  her  towards  me  by  her  curled 
locks,  and  she  softly  inclined  to  my  embrace  ; —  her 
waist  was  gracefully  slender,  but  sweetly  swelled  the 
part  encircled  with  JMSffflfJ^*^  of  gold. 

29.  Delicate  was  her  shape ;  fair  her  skin ;  and  her 
body  well  proportioned  :  her  bosom  was  as  smooth  as 
a  mirror, 

30.  Or,  like  the  pure  egg  of  an  ostrich,  of  a  yellow- 
ish tint  blended  with  white,  and  nourished  by  a  stream 
of  wholesome  water  not  yet  disturbed. 

31.  She  turned  aside,  and  displayed  her  soft  cheek : 
she  g&ve  a  timid  glance  with  languishing  eyes,  like 
those  of  a  roe  vajhe  zroves  <2^  Wegeia  looking  tenderly 
at  her  young. 

32.  Her  neck  was  like  that  of  a  milk-white  hind, 
but,  when  she  raised  it,  exceeded  not  the  justest  sym- 
metry;  nor  was  the  neck  of  my  beloved  so  unadorned. 

33.  Her  long  coal-black  hair  decorated  her  back, 
thick  and  diffused,  like  bimches  of  dates  clustering  on 
the  palm-tree. 

34.  Her  locks  were  elegantly  turned  above  her 
head ;  and  the  riband  which  bound  them  was  lost  in 
her  tresses,  part  braided,  part  dishevelled. 


lO  THE  MOALLAKAT, 

35.  She  discovered  a  waist  taper  as  a  well-twisted 
cord ;  and  a  leg  both  as  white  and  as  smooth  as  the 
stem  of  a  young  palm,  or  a  fresh  reed,  bending  over 
the  rivulet. 

36.  When  she  sleeps  at  noon,  her  bed  is  besprink^ 
led  with  musk  :  she  puts  on  her  robe  of  undress,  but 
leaves  the  apron  to  her  handmaids. 

^  *•    *■•»  -     "" 

37.  She  dispenses  gifts  with  small,  delicate  fingers, 
sweetly  glowing  at  their  tips,  like  the  white  and  crimson 
worm  of  Dabja.  or  dentrifices  made  of  esel-wood. 


38.  The  brightness  of  her  face  illumines  the  veil  of 
night,  like  the  evening  taper  of  a  recluse  hermit. 

39.  On  a  girl  like  her,  a  girl  of  a  moderate  height, 
between  those  who  wear  a  frock  and  those  who  wear 
a  gown,  the  most  bashflil  man  must  look  with  an 
enamoured  eye. 

40.  The  blind  passions  of  men  for  common  objects 
of  affection  are  soon  dispersed ;  but  from  the  love  of 
thee  my  heart  cannot  be  released. 

41.  O  how  oft  have  I  rejected  the  admonitions  of 
a  morose  adviser,  vehement  in  censuring  my  passion 
for  thee ;  nor  have  I  been  moved  by  his  reproaches  ! 

42.  Often  has  the  night  drawn  her  skirts  around 
me,  like  the  billows  of  the  ocean,  to  make  trial  of  my 
fortitude  in  a  variety  of  cares ; 

43.  And  I  said  to  her,  when  she  seemed  to  extend 
her  sides,  to  drag  on  her  unwieldy  length,  and  to  ad- 
vance slowly  with  her  breast : 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRIOLKAIS.  ii 

44.  "  Dispel  thy  gloom,  O  tedious  night !  that  the 
mom  may  rise ;  although  my  sorrows  are  such,  that 
the  morning-light  will  not  give  more  comfort  than 
thy  shades.  — \ 

45.  '•  O  hideous  night ! — a  night  in  which  the  stars/ 
are  prevented  from  rising,  as  if  they  were  bound  to  a) 
solid  cliff  with  strong  cables ! "  y 

46.  Often,  too,  have  I  risen  at  early  dawn,  while 
the  birds  were  yet  in  their  nests,  and  mounted  ahunter 
with  smooth  short  hair,  of  a  full  height,  and  so  fleet  as 
to  make  captive  the  beasts  of  the  forest ; 

47.  Ready  in  turning,  quick  in  pursuing,  bold  in 
advancing,  firm  in  backing ;  and  performing  the  whole 
with  the  strength  and  swiftness  of  a  vast  rock  which  a 
torrent  has  pushed  from  its  lofty  base ; 

48.  A  bright  bay  steed,  from  whose  polished  back 
the  trappings  slide,  as  drops  of  rain  glide  hastily  down 
the  slippery  marble. 

49.  Even  in  his  weakest  state  he  seems  to  boil  while 
he  runs ;  and  the  soimd  which  he  makes  in  his  rage  is 

like  that  of  a  h^jj^hling  ranlHrqp 

50.  When  other  horses  that  swim  through  the  air 
are  languid  and  kick  the  dust,  he  rushes  on  like  a  flood, 
and  strikes  the  hard  earth  with  a  firm  hoof. 

51.  He  makes  the  light  youth  slide  from  his  seat, 
and  violently  shakes  the  skirts  of  a  heavier  and  more 
Stubborn  rider ; 

52.  Rapid  as  the  pierced  wood  in  the  hands  of 
a  playful  child,  which  he  whirls  quickly  round  with  a 
well-fastened  cord. 


\ 


IS  TffE  MOALLAKAT. 

53.  He  has  the  loins  of  an  antelope,  and  the  thighs 
of  an  ostrich ;  he  trots  like  a  wolf,  and  gallops  like  a 
young  fox. 

54.  Firm  are  his  haunches ;  and  when  his  hinder 
parts  are  turned  towards  you,  he  fills  the  space  between 
his  legs  with  a  long  thick  tail,  which  touches  not  the 
ground,  and  inclines  not  to  either  side. 

55.  His  back,  when  he  stands  in  his  stall,  resembles 
the  smooth  stone  on  whirh  perfnn^s  are  mixed  for  a 
bride,  or  the  seeds  of  cologuinteda  are  bruised. 

56.  The  blood  of  the  swift  game,  which  remains  on 
his  neck,  is  like  the  crimson  juice  of  hinna  on  gray 
flowing  locks. 

57.  He  bears  us  speedily  to  a  herd  of  wild  catde, 
in  which  the  heifers  are  fair  as  the  virgins  in  .black 
trailing  robes,  who  dance  roimd /^  idol  Dewaar : 

58.  They  turn  their  backs,  and  appeaFlUe  the 
variegated  shells  of  Yemen  on  the  neck  of  a  youth 
distinguished  in  his  tribe  for  a  multitude  of  noble 
kinsmen. 

59.  He  soon  brings  us  up  to  the  foremost  of  the 
beasts,  and  leaves  the  rest  far  behind ;  nor  has  the 
herd  time  to  disperse  itself. 

60.  He  runs  from  wild  bulls  to  wild  heifers,  and 
overpowers  them  in  a  single  heat,  without  being  bathed, 
or  even  moistened,  with  sweat 

61.  Then  the  busy  cook  dresses  the  game,  roasting 
part,  baking  part  on  hot  stones,  and  quickly  boiling 
the  rest  in  a  vessel  of  iron. 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRIOLKAIS.  13 

62.  In  the  evening  we  depart;  and  when  the  be- 
holder's eye  ascends  to  the  head  of  my  hunter,  and 
then  descends  to  his  feet,  it  is  unable  at  once  to  take 
in  all  his  beauties. 

63.  His  trappings  and  girths  are  still  upon  him : 
he  stands  erect  before  me,  not  yet  loosed  for  pas- 
ture. 

64.  O  friend,  seest  thou  the  lightning,  whose  flashes 
resemble  the  quick  glance  of  two  hands,  amid  clouds 
raised  above  clouds  ? 

65.  The  fire  of  it  gleams  like  the  lamps  of  a  hermit, 
when  the  oil  poured  on  them  shakes  the  cord  by  which 
they  are  suspended. 

66.  I  sit  gazing  at  it,  while  my  companions  stand 
between  Daaridge  and  OHl^ih-  but  £u:  distant  is  the 
cloud  on  which  my  eyes  are  fixed. 

67.  .  Its  right  side  seems  to  pour  its  xaia.on-X&^ 
hills  of  Katan,~and1Cs'tafr  on  the  mountains  ^Sitaar 

"and  Yadbul. 

-  --  -      .. » - 

68.  It  continues  to  discharge  its  waters  over  Cotaifa 
till  the  rushing  torrent  lays  prostrate  the  groves  of 
canahbel-trees. 

69.  It  passes  over  mmmt  ¥pnflBn,  which  it  deluges 
in  its  course,  and  forces  the  wild  goats  to  descend  from 
every  cliff. 

70.  On^mgurU^  Taicaa.  itleaves  not  one  trunk  of  a 
palm  tree,  nor  a  singlo^i^ifice^,  wHicn  is  not  built  with 
well-cemented  stone. 


14  T/f£  MOALLAK'AT.  \ 

71.  Mount  Tthtvs  stands  in  the  heights  of  the 
flood,  fike  a  venerable  chief  wrapped  in  a  striped 
mantle. 

72.  The  summit  of  Mogaimir,  covered  with  the 
rubbish  which  the  torrent  has  rolled  down,  looks  in  the 
morning  like  the  top  of  a  spindle  encircled  with  wool 

■  ■      I     ■■[■■Am    I    "-     iigiiM— i—M  I— iiW^I 

73.  The  cloud  unloads  its  freight  on  the  desert  of 
jQubeiJUike  a  merchant  of  Yemen  alighting  with  his 

bales  of  rich  apparel. 

74.  The  small  birds  of  the  valley  warble  at  day- 
break, as  if  they  had  taken  their  early  draught  of 
generous  wine  mixed  with  spice. 

75.  The  beasts  of  the  wood,  drowned  in  the  floods 
of  night,  float,  like  the  roots  of  wild  onions,  at  the 
distant  edge  of  the  lake. 


THE 


POEM 


OF 


T  ARA  FA. 


-M- 


THE    ARGUMENT. 


THIS  Poem  was  occasioned  by  a  little  incident  highly 
characteristic  of  pastoral  manners.  Tarafa  and  his 
brother  Mabed  jointly  possessed  a  herd  of  camels,  and 
had  agreed  to  watch  them  alternately,  each  on  his  particular 
day,  lest,  as  they  were  grazing,  they  should  be  driven  off  by  a 
tribe  with  whom  their  own  clan  was  at  war.  But  our  poet  was 
so  immersed  in  meditation,  and  so  wedded  to  his  muse,  that  he 
often  neglected  his  charge,  and  was  sharply  reproved  by  his 
hrother,  who  asked  him,  sarcastically,  whether,  if  he  lost  the 
camels,  they  could  be  restored  by  his  poetry.  "  You  shall  be 
convinced  of  it,"  answered  Tarafa ;  and  persisted  so  long  in 
his  negligence  that  the  whole  herd  was  actually  seized  by  the 
Modarites. 

This  was  more  than  he  really  expected  ;  and  he  applied  to  all 
his  friends  for  assistance  in  recovering  the  camels;  among  others, 
he  solicited  the  help  of  his  cousin  Malec,  who,  instead  of  granting 


i6  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

it,  took  the  opportunity  of  rebuking  him  with  acrimony  for  his 
remissness  in  that  instance,  and  for  his  general  prodigality, 
libertinism,  and  spirit  of  contention ;  telling  him  that  he  was  a 
disgrace  to  his  family,  and  had  raised  innumerable  enemies. 

The  defence  of  a  poet  was  likely  to  be  best  nuule  in  poetical 
language ;  and  Tarafa  produced  the  following  composition  in 
vindication  of  his  character  and  conduct,  which  he  boldly  justifies 
in  every  respect,  and  even  claims  praise  for  the  very  course  of 
life  which  had  exposed  him  to  censure. 

He  glories  in  his  passion  for  women,  and  begins,  as  usual,  with 
lamenting  the  departure  of  his  beloved  Khaula  (or,  the  "  tender 
fawn"),  whose  beauty  he  describes  in  a  very  lively  strain.  It  were 
to  be  wished  that  he  had  said  more  of  his  mistress,  and  less  of 
his  camel,  of  which  he  interweaves  a  very  long,  and  no  very 
pleasing,  description. 

The  rest  of  the  poem  contains  an  iloge  on  his  own  fortitude, 
sprightliness,  liberality,  and  valour,  mixed  with  keen  expostu- 
lations on  the  unkindness  and  ingratitude  of  Malec,  and  with  all 
the  common  topics  in  favour  of  voluptuousness :  he  even  triumphs 
on  having  slain  and  dressed  one  of  his  father's  camels,  and  blames 
the  old  man  for  his  churlishness  and  avarice. 

It  is  a  tradition  preserved  by  Abu  Obeida,  that  one  of  the 
chiefs,  whom  the  poet  compliments  in  the  eighty-fiist  couplet, 
made  him  a  present  of  a  hundred  camels,  and  enabled  him,  as 
he  had  promised,  to  convince  his  brother  that  poetry  could 
repair  his  loss. 


The  metre  is  the  same  with  that  used  by  Amriolkais. 


THE  POEM   OF  TARAFA. 

[HE  mansion  of  Khaula  is  desolate,  and 
the  traces  of  it  on  the  stony  hills  of 
Tahmed  faintly  shine,  like  the  remains 
of  blue  figures    painted    on   the    back 
of  a  hand." 

2.  While  I  spoke  thus  to  myself,  my  companions 
stopped  their  coursers  by  my  side,  and  said,  "  Perish 
not  through  despair,  but  act  with  fortitude.'' 

3.  Ah,  said  /,  the  vehicles  which  bore  away  my 
fitir  one  on  the  morning  when  the  tribe  of  Malec 
departed,  and  their  camels  were  traversing  the  banks 
of  Deda,  resembled  large  ships 

4.  Sailing  from  Aduli ;  or  vessels  of  the  merchant 
Ibn  Yamin,  which  the  mariner  now  turns  obliquely, 
and  now  steers  in  a  direct  course ; 

5.  Ships,  which  cleave  the  foaming  waves  with 
their  prows,  as  a  boy  at  his  play  divides  with  his  hand 
the  collected  earth. 

6.  In  that  tribe  was  a  lovely  antelope,  with  black 
eyes,  dark  ruddy  lips,  and  a  beautiful  neck,  gracefully 
raised  to  crop  the  fresh  berries  of  erac  —  a  neck 
adorned  with  two  strings  of  pearls  and  topazes. 

7.  She  strays  from  her  young,  and  feeds  with  the 
herd  of  roes  in  the  tangled  thicket,  where  she  browses 
the  edges  of  the  wild  fruit,  and  covers  herself  with  a 
mantle  of  leaves. 

B 


i8  THE  MOALLAKAT. 


8.  She  smiles,  and  displays  her  bright  teeth,  rising 
from  their  dark-colom'ed  bases,  like  a  privet-plant  in 
full  bloom,  which  pierces  a  bank  of  pure  sand  moistened 
with  dew : 

9.  To  her  teeth  the  sun  has  imparted  his  brilliant 
water ;  but  not  to  the  part  where  they  grow,  which  is 
sprinkled  vdth  lead-ore,  while  the  ivory  remains  un- 
spotted. 

10.  Her  face  appears  to  be  wrapped  in  a  veil  of 
simbeams;  unblemished  is  her  complexion,  and  her 
skin  is  without  a  wrinkle. 

11.  Such  cares  as  this^  whenever  they  oppress  my 
soul,  I  dispel  hy  taking  adventurous  journeys  on  a  lean 
yet  brisk  camel,  who  runs  with  a  quick  pace  both 
morning  and  evening ; 

12.  Sure-footed,  firm,  and  thin  as  the  planks  of  a 
bier;  whose  course  I  hasten  over  long-trodden  paths, 
variegated  like  a  striped  vest 

13.  She  rivals  the  swiftest  camels,  even  of  the 
noblest  breed,  and  her  hind-feet  rapidly  follow  her 
fore-feet  on  the  beaten  way. 

14.  In  the  vernal  season,  she  grazes  on  yon  two 
hills  among  others  of  her  race,  whose  teats  are  not 
yet  filled  with  milk,  and  depastures  the  lawns,  whose 
finest  grass  the  gentle  showers  have  made  luxuri- 
antly green. 

15.  She  turns  back  at  the  sound  of  her  rider's 
.voice ;  and  repels  the  caresses  of  a  thick-haired  russet 

stallion  with  the  lash  of  her  bushy  tail, 


THE  POEM  OF  TARAFA,  19 

16.  Which  appears  as  if  the  two  wings  of  a  laige 
white  eagle  were  transfixed  by  an  awl  to  the  bone,  and 
hung  waving  round  both  her  sides : 

17.  One  while  it  lashes  the  place  of  him  who  rides 
hindmost  on  her;  another  while  it  plays  round  her 
teats,  which  are  become  wrinkled  and  flaccid  like  a 
leathern  bag,  their  milk  no  longer  distending  them. 

18.  Her  two  haunches  are  plump,  and  compact  as 
the  two  smooth  valves  of  a  lofty  castle-gate. 

19.  Supple  is  her  backbone :  her  ribs  are  like  the 
strongest  bows ;  and  her  neck  is  firmly  raised  on  the 
well-connected  vertebres. 

2a  The  two  cavities  under  her  shoulders  are  spa- 
cious as  two  dens  of  beasts  among  the  wild  lotus 
plants ;  and  stiff  bows  appear  to  be  bent  under  her 
sinewy  loins. 

21.  Her  two  thighs  are  exceedingly  strong,  and, 
when  she  moves,  they  diverge  like  two  buckets  carried 
from  a  well  in  the  hands  of  a  robust  drawer  of  water. 

2  2.  Her  joints  are  well  ktiity  and  her  bones  are  solid^ 
like  a  bridge  of  Grecian  architecture,  whose  builder 
had  vowed  that  he  would  enclose  it  with  well-cemented 
bricks. 

23.  The  hair  under  her  chin  is  of  a  reddish  hue : 
her  back  is  muscular :  she  takes  long  yet  quick  steps 
with  her  hind  feet,  and  moves  her  fore-feet  with  agility ; 

24.  She  tosses  them  from  her  chest  with  the  strength 
and  swiftness  of  cables  firmly  pulled  by  a  nervous  arm  ; 
and  her  shoulders  are  bent  like  the  rafters  of  a  lofty 
dome: 


M  THE  MOALLAKAT, 


35.  She  turns  rapidly  from  the  path :  exceeding^ 
swift  is  her  pace ;  long  is  her  head ;  and  her  shoulder- 
bones  are  strongly  united  to  her  sides. 

36.  The  white  and  hollow  marks  of  the  oords^ 
with  which  her  burdens  have  been  tied  to  her  back^ 
resemble  pools  of  water  on  the  smooth  brow  of  a 
solid  rock; 

27.  Marks  which  sometimes  unite,  and  sometimes 
are  distinct,  like  the  gores  of  fine  linen,  which  are 
sewed  under  the  arms  of  a  well-cut  robe. 

38.  Long  is  her  neck;  and  when  she  raises  it  with 
celerity,  it  resembles  the  stem  of  a  ship  floating  aloft 
on  the  billowy  Tigris. 

29.  Her  skull  is  firm  as  an  anvil ;  and  the  bones, 
which  the  sutures  unite,  are  indented,  and  sharp  as  a  file. 

30.  Her  cheek  is  smooth  and  white  as  paper  of 
Syria ;  and  her  lips,  as  soft  as  dyed  leather  of  Yemen, 
exactly  and  smoothly  cut. 

31.  Her  two  eyes,  like  two  polished  mirrors,  have 
found  a  hiding-place  in  the  caverns  of  their  orbits,  the 
bones  of  which  are  like  rocks,  in  whose  cavities  the 
water  is  collected : 

32.  Thou  beholdest  them  free  from  blemish  or 
spot,  and  resembling  in  beauty  those  of  a  wild-cow,, 
the  mother  of  playful  young,  when  the  voice  of  the 
hunter  has  filled  her  with  fear. 

33.  Her  ears  truly  distinguish  every  sound,  to 
which  she  listens  attentively  in  her  nightly  journeys, 
whether  it  be  a  gentle  whisper  or  a  loud  noise ; 


THE  POEM  OF  TARAFA.  at 

34.  Sharp  ears,  by  which  the  excellence  of  her 
breed  is  known  I — ears  like  those  of  a  solitary  wild-bull 
in  the  groves  of  HaumeL 

35.  Her  heart,  easily  susceptible  of  terror,  palpi- 
tates with  a  quick  motion,  yet  remains  firm  in  her  chesi 
as  a  round  solid  stone  striking  a  broad  floor  of  marble. 

36.  If  I  please,  she  raises  her  head  to  the  middle 
of  her  trappings,  and  swims  with  her  fore-legs  as  swift 
as  a  young  ostrich. 

37.  If  I  please,  she  moves  more  slowly ;  if  not, 
she  gallops,  through  fear  of  the  strong  lash  formed  of 
twisted  thongs. 

38.  Her  upper-lip  is  divided,  and  the  softer  part 
•of  her  nose  is  bored :  when  she  bends  them  towards 
tiie  ground  her  pace  is  greatly  accelerated. 

39.  On  a  camel  like  this  I  continue  my  course, 
when  the  companion  of  my  adventure  exclaims :  "  Oh, 
that  I  could  redeem  thee,  and  redeem  myself  from  the 
impending  danger ! '' 

40.  While  his  soul  flutters  through  fear,  and,  imag- 
ining that  he  has  lost  the  way,  he  supposes  himself  on 
the  brink  of  perdition. 

41.  When  the  people  say  aloud :  "Who  is  the  man 
io  deliver  us  from  calamity^"  I  believe  they  call 
upon  me,  and  I  disgrace  not  their  commission  by 
supineness  or  folly. 

42.  I  shake  the  lash  over  my  camel,  and  slie 
quickens  her  pace,  while  the  sultry  valour  rolls  in  waves? 
over  the  burning  difls. 


22  THE  MOALLAKAT, 

43.  She  floats  proudly  along  with  her  flowing  tail, 
as  the  dandng-girl  floats  in  the  banquet  of  her  lord, 
and  spreads  the  long  white  skirts  of  her  trailing  vest 

44.  I  inhabit  not  the  lofty  hills  through  fear  of 
enemies  or  of  guests ;  but  when  the  tribe  or  the  travel- 
ler  demand  my  assistance,  I  give  it  eagerly. 

45.  If  you  seek  me  in  the  circle  of  the  assembled 
nation,  there  you  find  me ;  and  if  you  hunt  me  in  the 
bowers  of  the  vintner,  there  too  you  discover  your 
game. 

46.  When  you  visit  me  in  the  morning,  I  ofler  you 
a  flowing  goblet ;  and,  if  you  make  excuses,  I  bid  you 
drink  it  with  pleasure,  and  repeat  your  draught 

47.  When  all  the  dan  are  met  to  state  their  pre- 
tensions to  nobility,  you  will  perceive  me  raised  to  the 
summit  of  an  illustrious  house,  the  refuge  of  the  dis- 
tressed. 

48.  My  companions  in  the  feast  are  youths,  bright 
as  stars,  and  singing-girls,  who  advance  towards  us, 
dad  in  striped  robes  and  safiron-coloiired  mantles : 

49.  Large  is  the  opening  of  their  vests  above  their 
delicate  bosoms,  through  which  the  inflamed  youth 
touches  their  imcovered  breasts  of  exquisite  softness. 

5a  When  we  say  to  one  of  them,  "  I^et  us  hear  a 
song"  she  steps  before  us  with  easy  grace,  and  begins 
with  gentle  notes,  in  a  voice  not  forced : 

51.*  When  she  warbles  in  a  higher  strain,  you 
would  believe  her  notes  to  be  those  of  camels  lament- 
ing their  lost  young. 


THE  POEM  OF  TARAFA.  23 


52.  Thus  I  drink  old  wine,  without  ceasing,  and 
enjoy  the  delights  of  life  ;  selling  and  dissipating  my 
property,  both  newly  acquired  and  inherited  ; 

53.  Until  the  whole  clan  reject  me,  and  leave  me 
solitary,  like  a  diseased  camel  smeared  with  pitch : 

54.  Yet  even  now  I  perceive  that  the  sons  of 
earth  (the  most  indigent  men)  acknowledge  my  bounty, 
and  the  rich  inhabitants  of  yon  extended  camp  confess 
my  glory, 

55.  Oh,  thou,  who  censurest  me  for  engaging  in 
combats  and  pursuing  pleasures,  wilt  thou,  if  I  avoid 
them^  insure  my  immortality  ? 

56.  If  thou  art  unable  to  repel  the  stroke  of  deaths 
allow  me,  before  it  comes,  to  enjoy  the  good  which  I 
possess. 

57.  Were  it  not  for  three  enjoyments  which  youth 
affords,  I  swear  by  thy  prosperity,  that  I  should  not 
be  solicitous  how  soon  my  friends  visited  me  on  my 
death-bed : 

58.  First,  to  rise  before  the  censurers  awake,  and 
to  drink  tawny  wine,  which  sparkles  and  froths  when 
the  clear  stream  is  poured  into  it 

59.  Next,  when  a  warrior,  encircled  by  foes, 
implores  my  aid,  to  bend  towards  him  my  prancing 
charger,  fierce  as  a  wolf  among  the  gadha-trees,  whom 
the  sound  of  human  steps  has  awakened,  and  who  runs 
to  quench  his  thirst  at  the  brook. 

60.  Thirdly,  to  shorten  a  cloudy  day,  a  day  as- 
tonishingly dark,  by  toying  with  a  lovely  delicate  girl 
under  a  tent  supported  by  pillars, — 


THE  MOALLAKAT. 


6i.  A  girl,  whose  biacelets  and  garters  seem  hung 
on  the  stems  of  oshar-trees,  or  of  ricinus,  not  stripped 
of  their  soft  leaves. 

62.  Suffer  me,  whilst  I  live,  to  drench  my  head 
with  wine^  lest,  having  drunk  too  little  in  my  life-time, 
/  should  he  thirsty  in  cmother  state. 

63.  A  man  of  my  generous  spirit  drinks  his  full 
draught  to-day,  and  to-morrow,  when  we  are  dead, 
it  will  be  known  which  of  us  has  not  quenched  his 
thirst 

64.  I  see  no  difference  between  the  tomb  of  an 
anxious  miser,  gasping  over  his  hoard,  and  the  tomb 
of  the  libertine,  lost  in  the  maze  of  voluptuousness. 

65.  You  behold  the  sepulchres  of  them  both 
raised  in  two  heaps  of  earth,  on  which  are  elevated 
two  broad  piles  of  solid  marble  among  the  tombs 
closely  connected. 

66.  Death,  I  observe,  selects  the  noblest  heroes 
for  her  victims,  and  reserves  as  her  property  the 
choicest  possessions  of  the  sordid  hoarder. 

67.  I  consider  time  as  a  treasure  decreasing  every 
night;  and  that  which  every  day  diminishes  soon 
perishes  for  ever. 

68.  By  thy  life,  my  friend,  when  Death  inflicts  not 
her  wound,  she  resembles  a  camel-driver  who  relaxes 
the  cord  which  remains  twisted  in  his  hand. 

69.  What  causes  the  variance,  which  I  perceive, 
between  me  and  my  cousin  Malec,  who,  whenever  I 
approach  him,  retires  and  flees  to  a  distance  ? 


THE  POEM  OF  TARAFA.  25 

70.  He  censures  me,  whilst  I  know  not  the  ground 
of  his  censure;  just  as  Karth,  the  son  of  Aabed, 
reproved  me  in  the  assembly  of  the  tribe. 

71.  He  bids  me  wholly  despair  of  all  the  good 
which  I  seek,  as  if  we  had  buried  it  in  a  gloomy 
grave; 

7  2.  And  this  for  no  defamatory  words  which  I  have 
uttered,  but  only  because  I  sought,  without  remiss- 
ness, for  the  camels  of  my  brother  Mabed 

73.  I  have  drawn  closer  the  ties  of  our  relation, 
and  I  swear  by  thy  prosperity,  that  in  all  times  of 
extreme  distress,  my  succour  is  at  hand. 

74.  Whenever  I  am  summoned  on  momentous 
enterprises,  I  am  prepared  to  encounter  peril;  and 
whenever  the  foe  assails  thee  impetuously,  I  defend 
thee  with  equal  vehemence. 

75.  If  any  base  defamers  injure  thy  good  name  by 
their  calumnies,  I  force  them,  without  previous  men- 
ace, to  drain  a  cup  from  the  pool  of  death ; 

76.  Yet,  without  having  committed  any  offence,  I 
am  treated  like  the  worst  offender — am  censured, 
insulted,  upbraided,  rejected. 

77.  When  any  other  man  but  Malec  my  cousin, 
he  would  have  dispelled  my  cares,  or  have  left  me 
at  liberty  for  a  season. 

78.  But  my  kinsman  strangles  me  with  cruelty, 
even  at  the  very  time  when  I  am  giving  thanks  for 
past,  and  requesting  new  favours ;  even  when  I  am 
seeking  from  him  the  redemption  of  my  soul ! 


a6  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

79.  The  unkindness  of  relations  gives  keener  an- 
guish to  every  noble  breast  than  the  stroke  of  an 
Indian  scimitar. 

80.  Permit  me  then  to  follow  the  bent  of  my  nature, 
and  I  will  be  grateful  for  thy  indulgence,  although  my 
abode  should  be  fixed  at  such  a  distance  as  the 
mountains  of  Darghed. 

81.  Had  it  pleased  the  Author  of  my  being,  I 
might  have  been  as  illustrious  as  Kais,  the  son  of 
Khaled  \  had  it  pleased  my  Creator,  I  might  have  been 
as  eminent  as  Amru,  the  son  of  Morthed : 

82.  Then  should  I  have  abounded  in  wealth ;  and 
the  noblest  chiefs  would  have  visited  me,  as  a  chieflain 
equally  noble. 

83.  I  am  light,  as  you  know  me  all,  and  am  nimble ; 
following  my  own  inclinations,  and  briskly  moving  as 
the  head  of  a  serpent  with  flaming  eyes. 

84.  I  have  sworn  that  my  side  should  never  cease 
to  line  a  bright  Indian  blade  with  two  well-polished 
and  well-sharpened  edges : 

85.  A  penetrating  scimitar !  When  I  advance  with 
it  in  my  defence  against  a  fierce  attack,  the  first  stroke 
makes  a  second  unnecessary :  it  is  not  a  mere  pruning- 
sickle, 

86.  But  the  genuine  brother  of  confidence,  not 
bent  by  the  most  impetuous  blow ;  and  when  they  say 
to  me,  "  Gently,"  I  restrain  its  rage,  and  exclaim,  ''  It 
is  enough!" 


THE  POEM  OF  TARAFA.  27 

87.  When  the  whole  clan  are  bracing  on  their 
armour  with  eager  haste,  thou  mayst  find  me  victorious 
in  the  conflict,  as  soon  as  my  hand  can  touch  the  hilt 
of  this  scimitar. 

88.  Many  a  herd  of  slumbering  camels  have  I 
approached  with  my  drawn  sabre,  when  the  foremost 
of  them,  awakenings  have  fled  through  fear  of  me : 

89.  But  one  of  them  has  passed  before  me,  strong- 
limbed,  full-breasted,  and  well-fed,  the  highly-valued 
property  of  a  morose  old  churl,  dry  and  thin  as  a 
fuller^s  club. 

90.  He  said  to  me,  when  the  camel's  hoof  and 
thigh  were  dismembered,  "  Seest  thou  not  how  great 
an  injury  thou  hast  done  me  ?  " 

91.  Then  he  turned  to  his  attendants,  sayings 
''What  opinion  do  you  form  of  that  young  wine- 
drinker,  who  assails  us  impetuously,  whose  violence 
is  preconcerted? 

92.  ''  Leave  him,"  he  added,  "  and  let  this  camel 
be  his  perquisite ;  but,  unless  you  drive  off  the  hind- 
most of  the  herd,  he  will  reiterate  his  mischief" 

93.  Then  our  damsels  were  busy  in  dressing  the 
camel's  foal,  and  eagerly  served  up  the  luscious  bunch. 

94.  O  daughter  of  Mabed,  sing  my  praises,  if  I  am 
slain,  according  to  my  desert,  and  rend  thy  vest  with 
sincere  affliction  I 

95.  Compare  me  not  with  any  man,  whose  courage 
equals  not  my  courage ;  whose  exploits  are  not  like 
mine ;  who  has  not  been  engaged  in  combats,  in  which 
I  have  been  distinguished : 


28  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

96^  With  a  man  slow  in  noble  enterprises^  but 
quick  in  base  pursuits ;  dishonoured  in  the  assembly 
of  the  tribe,  and  a  vile  outcast 

97.  Had  I  been  ignoble  among  my  countrymen, 
the  enmity  of  the  befriended  and  the  friendless  might 
have  been  injurious  to  me ; 

98.  But  their  malevolence  is  repelled  by  my  firm 
defiance  of  them,  by  my  boldness  in  attack,  by  my  solid 
integrity,  and  my  exalted  birth. 

99.  By  thy  life,  the  hardest  enterprises  neither  fill 
my  day  with  solicitude,  nor  lengthen  the  duration  of 
my  night : 

100.  But  many  a  day  have  I  fixed  my  station 
immoveably  in  the  dose  conflict,  and  defended  a  pass, 
regardless  of  hostile  menaces, 

1 01.  On  my  native  field  of  combat,  where  even 
the  boldest  hero  might  be  apprehensive  of  destruction; 
where  the  muscles  of  our  chargers  quake,  as  soon  as 
they  mingle  in  battle ; 

102.  And  many  an  arrow  for  drawing  lots  have  I 
seen  well  hardened  and  made  yellow  by  fire,  and  then 
have  delivered  it  into  the  hand  of  the  gamester  noted 
for  ill  fortune. 

103.  Too  much  wisdom  is  folly;  for  time  will  pro- 
duce events,  of  which  thou  canst  have  no  idea  \  and 
he,  to  whom  thou  gavest  no  commission,  will  txing 
thee  unexpected  news. 


tvKN 


^  P  ^  (f\  "^P 


^    ^ 


THE 


POEM 


OP 


ZO  H  A  I  R. 


THE    ARGUMENT. 


THE  war  of  Dahis,  of  which  Amriolkais  is  by  some 
supposed  to  have  been  the  cause,  had  raged  near  forty 
years,  if  the  Arabian  account  be  true,  between  the  tribes 
of  Abs  and  Dhobyan,  who  both  began  at  length  to  be  tired  of  so 
bloody  and  ruinous  a  contest  A  treaty  was  therefore  proposed 
and  concluded ;  but  Hosein,  the  son  of  Demdem,  whose  brother 
Harem  had  been  slain  by  Ward,  the  son  of  Habes,  had  taken  a 
solemn  oath,  not  unusual  among  the  Arabs,  that  he  would  not 
bathe  his  head  in  water,  until  he  had  avenged  the  death  of  his 
brother,  by  killing  either  Ward  himself,  or  one  of  his  nearest 
relations.  His  head  was  not  long  unbathed;  and  he  is  even 
supposed  to  have  violated  the  law  of  hospitality  by  slaying  a  guest^ 
whom  he  found  to  be  an  Absite  descended  lineally  from  the 
common  ancestor  Galeb. 

This  malignant  and  vindictive  spirit  gave  great  displeasure  to 
Hareth  and  Harem,  two  virtuous  chiefs  of  the  same  tribe  with 
Hosein;  and  when  the  Absites  were  approaching  in  warlike 


THE  MOALLAKAT. 


array  to  resent  the  infraction  of  the  treaty,  Hareth  sent  his  own 
son  to  the  tent  of  their  chief  with  a  present  of  a  hundred  fine 
camels,  as  an  atonement  for  the  murder  of  their  countryman, 
and  a  message  importing  his  firm  reliance  on  their  honour,  and 
his  hope  that  "  they  would  prefer  the  milk  of  the  camels  to  the 
blood  of  his  son."  Upon  this  Rabeiah,  the  prince  of  Abs, 
having  harangued  his  troops,  and  received  their  approbation, 
sent  back  the  youth  with  this  answer,  that  he  ''accepted  the 
ounels  as  an  expiatory  gift,  and  would  supply  the  imperfection 
of  the  former  treaty  by  a  sincere  and  durable  peace." 

In  conmiemoration  of  this  noble  act,  Zohair,  then  a  very  old 
man,  composed  the  following  panegyric  on  Hareth  and  Harem  ; 
but  the  opening  of  it,  like  all  the  others,  is  amatory  and  el^;iac  : 
it  has  also  something  of  the  dramatic  form. 

The  poet,  supposed  to  be  travelling  with  a  friend,  recognises 
the  place  where  the  tent  of  his  mistress  had  been  pitched  twenty 
years  before  ;  he  finds  it  wild  and  desolate ;  but  his  imagination 
is  so  warmed  by  associated  ideas  of  former  happiness,  that  he 
seems  to  discern  a  company  of  damsels,  with  his  favourite  in  the 
midst  of  them,  of  whose  appearance  and  journey  he  gives  a  very 
lively  picture ;  and  thence  passes,  rather  abruptly,  to  the  praises 
of  the  two  peace-makers  and  their  tribe ;  inveighs  against  the 
malignity  of  Hosein ;  personifies  War,  the  miseries  of  which  he 
describes  in  a  strain  highly  figurative;  and  concludes  with  a 
number  of  fine  maTims,  not  unlike  the  proverbs  of  Solomon, 
which  he  repeats  to  his  fiiend  as  a  specimen  of  his  wisdom 
acquired  by  long  experience. 


The  measure  is  the  same  with  that  of  the  fint  and  second 
Poems. 


THE    POEM    OF    ZOHAIR. 

[RE  these  the  only  traces  of  the  lovely 
Ommaufia?  Are  these  the  silent  ruins 
of  her  mansion  in  the  rough  plains  of 
Derraage  and  Mothatallem? 

2.  Are  the  remains  of  her  abode,  in  the  two  sta- 
tions of  Rakma,  become  like  blue  stains  renewed  with 
fresh  woad  on  the  veins  of  the  wrist  ? 

3.  There  the  wild  cows  with  large  eyes,  and  the 
milk-white  deer,  walk  in  slow  succession,  whDe  their 
young  rise  hastily  to  follow  them  from  every  lair. 

4.  On  this  plain  I  stopped,  after  an  absence  of 
twenty  summers,  and  with  difficulty  could  recollect 
the  mansion  of  my  fair  one  after  long  meditation ; 

5.  After  surveying  the  black  stones  on  which  her 
cauldrons  used  to  be  raised,  and  the  canal  round  her 
tent,  like  the  margin  of  a  fish-pond,  which  time  had 
not  destroyed. 

6.  Soon  as  I  recollected  the  dwelling-place  of 
my  beloved,  I  said  to  the  remains  of  her  bower, — 
"  Hail,  sweet  bower !  may  thy  morning  be  fair  and 
auspicious!" 

7.  But,  /  added^  look,  my  friend  !  dost  thou  not 
discern  a  company  of  maidens  seated  on  camels,  and 
advancing  over  the  high  ground  above  the  streams  of 
Jortham? 


32  THE  MO  ALL  AK AT. 

8.  They  leave  on  their  nght  the  mountains  and 
rocky  plains  of  Kenaan.  Oh,  how  many  of  my  bitter 
foes,  and  how  many  of  my  firm  allies,  does  Kenaan 
contain ! 

9.  They  are  mounted  in  carriages  covered  with 
cosdy  awnings^  and  with  rose-coloured  veils,  the  linings 
of  which  have  the  hue  of  crimson  andem-wood 

10.  They  now  appear  by  the  valley  of  Subaan,  and 
now  they  pass  through  it :  the  trappings  of  all  their 
camels  are  new  and  large. 

11.  When  they  ascend  from  the  bosom  of  the  vale, 
they  sit  forward  on  the  saddle-cloths,  with  every  mark 
of  a  voluptuous  gaiety. 

12.  The  locks  of  stained  wool,  that  fall  from  their 
carriages  whenever  they  alight,  resemble  the  scarlet 
berries  of  night-shade  not  yet  crushed. 

13.  They  rose  at  day-break;  they  proceeded  at 
early  dawn;  they  are  advancing  towards  the  vs^ley 
of  Ras,  directly  and  surely ^  as  the  hand  to  the  mouth. 

14.  Now,  when  they  have  reached  the  brink  of 
yon  blue  gushing  rivulet,  they  fix  the  poles  of  their 
tents,  like  the  Arab  with  a  settled  mansion. 

15.  Among  them  the  nice  gazer  on  beauty  may 
find  delight,  and  the  curious  observant  eye  may  be 
gratified  with  charming  objects. 

16.  In  this  place^  how  nobly  did  the  two  descend- 
ants of  Gaidh,  the  son  of  Morra,  labour  to  unite  the 
tribes,  which  a  fatal  effusion  of  blood  had  long 
divided  i 


THE  POEM  OF  ZOHAIR.  33 

17.  I  have  sworn  by  the  sacred  edifice,  round 
which  the  sons  of  Koraish  and  Jorham,  who  built  it, 
make  devout  processions ; 

18.  Yes,  I  have  solemnly  sworn,  that  I  would  give 
due  praise  to  that  illustrious  pair,  who  have  shown 
their  excellence  in  all  affairs,  both  simple  and  com- 
plicated. 

19.  Noble  chiefs  I  You  reconciled  Abs  and  Dhob- 
yan  after  their  bloody  conflicts:  after  the  deadly 
perfumes  of  Minsham  had  long  scattered  poison 
among  them. 

20.  You  said:  "We will  secure  the  public  good 
on  a  firm  basis:  whatever  profusion  of  wealth  or 
exertions  of  virtue  it  may  demand,  we  will  secure 
it" 

21.  Thence  you  raised  a  strong  fabric  of  peace; 
from  which  all  partial  obstinacy  and  all  criminal 
supineness  were  alike  removed. 

22.  Chiefs,  exalted  in  the  high  ranks  of  Maad, 
father  of  Arabs/  may  you  be  led  into  the  paths  of 
felicity !  The  man  who  opens  for  his  country  a 
treasure  of  glory  should  himself  be  glorified. 

23.  They  drove  to  the  tents  of  their  appeased  foes 
a  herd  of  yoimg  camels,  marked  for  the  goodness  of 
their  breed,  and  either  inherited  from  their  fathers  or 
the  scattered  prizes  of  war. 

24.  With  a  hundred  camels  they  closed  all  wounds : 

in  due  season  were  they  given,  yet  the  givers  were 

themselves  free  firom  guilt 

c 


34  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

25.  The  atonement  was  auspiciously  ofTered  by  one 
tribe  to  the  other ;  yet  those  who  offered  it  had  not 
shed  a  cupful  of  blood. 

26.  Oh,  convey  this  message  from  me  to  the  sons 
of  Dhobyan,  and  say  to  the  confederates  :  Have  you 
not  bound  yourselves  in  this  treaty  by  an  indissoluble 
tie? 

27.  Attempt  not  to  conceal  from  God  the  designs 
which  your  bosoms  contain ;  for  that  which  you  strive 
to  hide  God  perfectly  knows. 

28.  He  sometimes  defers  the  punishment,  but 
registers  the  crime  in  a  volimie,  and  reserves  it  for 
the  day  of  account;  sometimes  He  accelerates  the 
chastisement,  and  heavily  it  falls ! 

29.  War  is  a  dire  fiend,  as  you  have  known  by 
experience ;  nor  is  this  a  new  or  a  doubtful  assertion 
concerning  her. 

30.  When  you  expelled  her  from  your  plains,  you 
expelled  her  covered  with  infamy;  but  when  you 
kindled  her  flame,  she  blazed  and  raged. 

31.  She  ground  you,  as  the  mill  grinds  the  com 
with  its  lower  stone ;  like  a  female  camel,  she  became 
pregnant :  she  bore  twice  in  one  year ;  and  at  her  last 
labour,  she  was  the  mother  of  twins : 

32.  She  brought  forth  Distress  and  Ruin,  monsters 
full-grown,  each  of  them  deformed  as  the  dun  camel  of 
Aad ;  she  then  gave  them  her  breast,  and  they  were 
instandy  weaned. 


THE  POEM  OF  ZOHAIR.  35 


33.  Oh,  what  plenty  she  produced  in  your  land ! 
The  provisions  which  she  supplied  were  more  abun- 
danty  no  doubt,  than  those  which  the  cities  of  Irak 
dispense  to  their  inhabitants,  weighed  with  large 
weights,  and  measured  with  ample  measures  ! 

34.  Hail,  iUustrious  tribe  1  They  fix  their  tents 
where  faithful  allies  defend  their  interests,  whenever 
some  cloudy  night  assails  them  with  sudden  ad- 
versity. 

35.  HaH,  noble  race !  among  whom  neither  can 
the  revengeful  man  wreak  his  vengeance,  nor  is  the 
penitent  offender  left  to  the  mercy  of  his  foes. 

36.  Like  camels  were  they  turned  loose  to  pasture 
between  the  times  of  watering ;  and  then  were  they 
led  to  copious  pools,  horrid  with  arms  and  blood  : 

37.  They  dragged  one  another  to  their  several 
deaths ;  and  then  were  they  brought  back,  like  a  herd, 
to  graze  on  pernicious  and  noxious  weeds. 

38.  I  swore  by  my  life,  that  I  would  exalt  with 
praises  that  excellent  tribe,  whom  Hosein,  the  son  of 
Demdem,  injured,  when  he  refused  to  concur  in  the 
treaty. 

39.  He  bent  his  whole  mind  to  the  accomplish- 
ment of  his  hidden  purpose  :  he  revealed  it  not ;  he 
took  no  precipitate  step. 

40.  He  said,  '^  I  will  accomplish  my  design ;  and 
will  secure  myself  from  my  foe  with  a  thousand  horses 
well  caparisoned." 


THE  MOALLAKAT. 


41.  He  made  a  fierce  attack,  nor  feared  the 
number  of  tents,  where  Deaths  the  mother  of  vultuieSi 
had  fixed  her  mansion ; 

42.  There  the  warrior  stood  armed  at  all  points, 
fierce  as  a  lion  with  strong  muscles,  with  a  flowing 
mane,  with  claws  never  blunted : 

43.  A  bold  lion,  who,  when  he  is  assailed,  speedil7 
chastises  the  assailant ;  and,  when  no  one  attacks  him 
openly,  often  becomes  the  aggressor. 

44.  Yet  I  swear  by  thy  life,  my  friend,  that  their 
lances  poured  not  forth  the  blood  of  Ibn  Neheic,  nor 
of  Mothallem,  cruelly  slain ; 

45.  Their  javelins  had  no  share  in  drinking  the 
blood  of  Naufel,  nor  that  of  Waheb,  nor  that  of  Ibn 
Mojaddem. 

46.  The  deaths  of  all  those  chiefs  I  myself  have 
seen  expiated  with  camels  firee  from  blemish,  ascending 
the  summits  of  rocks. 

47.  He,  indeed,  who  rejects  the  blunt  end  of  the 
lance,  which  is  presented  as  a  token  ofpeau,  must  yield 
to  the  sharpness  of  the  point,  with  which  eveiy  tall 
javelin  is  armed. 

4S.  He  who  keeps  his  promise  escapes  blame ;  and 
he  who  directs  his  heart  to  the  calm  resting-place  of 
integrity  will  never  stammer  nor  quake  in  the  cusembiies 
of  his  nation. 

49.  He  who  trembles  at  all  possible  causes  of 
death  falls  in  their  way:  even  though  he  desire  to 
mount  the  skies  on  a  scaling-ladder. 


THE  POEM  OP  ZOffAIR.  37 

50.  He  who  possesses  wealth  or  talents,  and  with- 
holds them  from  his  countrymen,  alienates  their  love, 
and  exposes  himself  to  their  obloquy. 

51.  He  who  continually  debases  his  mind  by 
suffering  others  to  ride  over  it,  and  never  raises  it 
from  so  abject  a  state,  will  at  last  repent  of  his 
meanness. 

52.  He  who  sojourns  in  foreign  countries  mistakes 
his  enemy  for  his  friend;  and  him,  who  exalts  not 
his  own  soul,  the  nation  will  not  exalt 

53.  He  who  drives  not  invaders  from  his  dstem 
with  strong  arms  will  see  it  demolished ;  and  he 
who  abstains  ever  so  much  from  injuring  others' will 
often  himself  be  injured. 

54."  He  who  conciliates  not  the  hearts  of  men  in  a 
variety  of  transactions  will  be  bitten  by  their  sharp 
teeth,  and  trampled  on  by  their  pasterns. 

55.  He  who  shields  his  reputation  by  generous 
deeds  will  augment  it ;  and  he  who  guards  not 
himself  from  censiure  will  be  censured. 

56.  I  am  weary  of  the  hard  burdens  which  life 
imposes ;  and  every  man  who,  like  mcy  has  lived  four- 
score years  wiU  assuredly  be  no  less  weary. 

57.  I  have  seen  Death  herself  stumble  like  a  dim-] 
[  sighted  camel  \  but  he  whom  she  strikes  falls ;  and  he/ 
\  whom  she  misses  grows  old,  even  to  decrepitude. 

58.  Whenever  a  man  has  a  peculiar  cast  in  his 
nature,  although  he  supposes  it  concealed,  it  will  soon 
be  known. 


3S  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

59.  Experience  has  taught  me  the  events  of  this 
day  and  yesterday ;  but  as  to  the  events  of  to-morrow, 
I  confess  my  blindness. 

6a*  Half  of  man  is  his  tongue,  and  the  other  half 
is  his  heart :  the  rest  is  only  an  image  composed  of 
blood  and  flesh. 

61.*  He  who  confers  benefits  on  persons  unworthy 
of  them  changes  his  praise  to  blame,  and  his  joy  to 
repentance. 

62.*  How  many  men  dost  thou  see  whose  abun- 
dant merit  is  admired,  when  they  are  silent,  but  whose 
&ilings  are  discovered,  as  soon  as  they  open  their 
lips  I 

63.*  An  old  man  never  grows  wise  after  his  folly  ; 
but  when  a  youth  has  acted  foolishly  he  may  attain 
wisdom. 

64.*  We  asked,  and  you  gave;  we  repeated  our 
requests,  and  your  gift  also  was  repeated ;  but  whoever 
frequently  solicits  will  at  length  meet  with  a  refusal. 


''  '  'f  ^^  \/^ 

^   .:::^.'rt^'  ^, 

5^     V    #  i  v\hi<v 

THE 


POEM 


OF 


LE  B  E  I  D. 


i4«- 


THE    ARGUMENT. 


ALTHOUGH  the  opening  of  this  Poem  be  that  of  a  love- 
elegy,  and  the  greater  part  of  it  be  purely  pastoral,  yet 
it  seems  to  have  been  composed  on  an  occasion  more 
exalted  than  the  departure  of  a  mistress,  or  the  complaints  of  a 
lover.  For  the  poet,  who  was  also  a  genuine  patriot,  had  been  en- 
tertained at  the  court  of  Nomaan,  King  of  Hira  in  Mesopotamia, 
and  bad  been  there  engaged  in  a  warm  controversy  with  Rabeiah, 
son  of  Zeiad,  chief  of  the  Absites,  concerning  the  comparative 
excellence  of  their  tribes.  Lebeid  himself  relates,  what  might  be 
very  naturally  expected  from  a  man  of  his  eloquence  and  warmth, 
that  he  maintained  the  glory  of  his  countrymen  and  his  own 
dignity  against  all  opponents ;  but,  in  order  to  perpetuate  his 
victory,  and  to  render  his  triumph  more  brilliant,  he  produced 
the  following  poem  at  the  annual  assembly,  and  having  obtained 
the  suffrages  of  the  critics,  was  permitted,  we  are  told,  to  hang  it 
up  on  the  gate  of  the  Temple. 

The  fifteen  first  couplets  are  extremely  picturesque,  and  highly 
characteristic  of  Arabian  manners.  They  are  followed  by  an 
expostulatory  address  of  the  poet  himself,  or  of  some  friend  who 
attended  him  on  his  rambles,  on  the  folly  of  his  fruitless  passion 


40  THE  MOALLAKAT, 

for  Nawara,  who  had  slighted  him,  and  whose  tent  was  removed 
to  a  considerable  distance.  Occasion  is  hence  taken  to  inter- 
weave a  long  description  of  the  camel  on  which  he  intended  to 
travel  far  from  the  object  of  his  love,  and  which  he  compares  for 
swiftness  to  a  cloud  driven  by  the  wind,  or  a  wild-ass  running 
to  a  pool,  after  having  subsisted  many  months  on  herbage  only ; 
or  rather  to  a  wild*  cow  hastening  in  search  of  her  calf,  whom  the 
wolves  had  left  mangled  in  the  forest ; — the  last  comparison 
consists  of  seventeen  couplets,  and  may  be  compared  with  the 
long-tailed  similes  of  the  Greek  and  Roman  poets. 

He  then  returns  to  Nawara,  and  requites  her  coyness  with 
expressions  of  equal  indifference  ;  he  describes  the  gaiety  of  his 
life,  and  the  pleasures  which  he  can  enjoy  even  in  her  absence  ; 
he  celebrates  his  own  intrepidity  in  danger  and  firmness  on  his 
military  station  ;  whence  he  takes  occasion  to  introduce  a  short 
but  lively  description  of  his  horse  ;  and,  in  the  seventieth  couplet, 
alludes  to  the  before-mentioned  contest,  which  gave  rise  to  the 
poem :  thence  he  passes  to  the  praises  of  his  own  hospitality ; 
and  concludes  with  a  panegyric  on  the  virtues  of  his  tribe. 


The  measure  is  of  the  fifth  class,  called  perfect  verse,  which 
regularly  consists  of  the  compound  foot  benedicerent^  six  times 
repeated,  in  this  form  : 

"  Tria  grata  sunt  |  animo  meo,  ut  |  melius  nihil, 
Oculi  nigri,  |  cyathus  nitens,  |  roseus  calyx." 
But  when  the  couplet  admits  the  third  epitrite,  pastoribuSy  and 
the  double  iambus,  amantium^  it  may  be  considered  as  belonging 
to  the  seventh,  or  tremulous^  class ;  between  which  and  the 
perfect  the  only  distinction  seems  to  be  that  the  tremulous  never 
admits  the  anapestic  foot.  They  are  both,  in  the  language  of 
European  prosody,  iamhks^  in  which  the  even  places  are  in- 
variably pure,  and  the  odd  places  always  exclude  the  dactyl : 
when  the  uneven  feet  are  trochees  or  pyrrhks^  the  verses  become 
choriambic  or  peonic  ;  but  of  this  change  we  have  no  instance  in 
the  poem  before  us. 


THE    POEM    OF    LEBEID. 

lESOIATE  are  the  mansions  of  tke  fair, 
the  stations  in  Minia,  where  they  rested, 
and  those  where  they  fixed  their  abodes ! 
Wild  are  the  hills  of  Goul,  and  deserted 
ils  the  summit  of  Rijaam. 

2.  The  canals  of  Rayaan  are  destroyed:  the 
remains  of  them  are  laid  bare  and  smoothed  by  the 
floodsy  like  characters  engraved  on  the  solid  rocks. 

3.  Dear  ruins !  Many  a  year  has  been  closed, 
many  a  month,  holy  and  unhallowed,  has  elapsed, 
since  I  exchanged  tender  vows  with  their  feir  in- 
habitants I 

4.  The  rainy  constellations  of  spring  have  made 
their  hills  green  and  luxuriant:  the  drops  from  the 
thunder-clouds  have  drenched  them  with  profuse  as 
well  as  with  gentle  showers : 

5.  Showers,  from  every  nightiy  cloud,  from  every 
cloud  veiling  the  horizon  at  day-break,  and  from 
every  evening  cloud,  responsive  with  hoarse  murmurs. 

6.  Here  the  wild  eringo-plants  raise  their  tops : 
here  the  antelopes  bring  forth  their  young,  by  the 
sides  of  the  valley :  and  here  the  ostriches  drop 
their  eggs. 

7.  The  large-eyed  wild-cows  lie  suckling  their 
young,  a  few  days  old — ^their  young,  who  will  soon 
become  a  herd  on  the  plain. 


42  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

8.  The  torrents  have  cleared,  the  rubbish,  and  dis- 
closed the  traces  of  habitations,  as  the  reeds  of  a  writer 
restore  effaced  letters  in  a  book ; 

9.  Or  as  the  black  dust,  sprinkled  over  the  varied 
marks  on  a  fair  hand,  brings  to  view  with  a  brighter 
tint  the  blue  stains  of  woad. 

10.  I  stood  asking  news  of  the  ruins  concerning 
their  lovely  habitants  ;  but  what  avail  my  questions  to 
dreary  rocks,  who  answer  them  only  by  their  echo  ? 

1 1.  In  the  plains,  which  now  are  naked,  a  populous 
tribe  once  dwelled ;  but  they  decamped  at  early  dawn, 
and  nothing  of  them  remains,  but  the  canals  which 
encircled  their  tents,  and  the  thumaam-plants,  with 
which  they  were  repaired. 

12.  How  were  thy  tender  affections  raised,  when 
the  damsels  of  the  tribe  departed ;  when  they  hid 
themselves  in  carriages  of  cotton,  like  antelopes  in 
their  lair ;  and  the  tents,  as  they  were  struck,  gave  a 
piercing  sound  1 

13.  They  were  concealed  in  vehicles  whose  sides 
were  well  covered  with  awnings  and  carpets,  with  fine- 
spun curtains,  and  pictured  veils : 

14.  A  company  of  maidens  were  seated  in  them, 
with  black  eyes  and  graceful  motions^  like  the  wild  heifers 
of  Tudah,  or  the  roes  of  Wegera  tenderly  gazing  on 
their  young. 

15.  They  hastened  their  camels,  till  the  sultry 
vapour  gradually  stole  them  from  thy  sight ;  and  they 
seemed  to  pass  through  a  vale,  wild  with  tamarisks 
and  rough  with  large  stones,  like  the  valley  of  Beihsa. 


THE  POEM  OF  LEBEID.  43 

16.  Ah,  what  remains  in  thy  remembrance  of  the 
beautiful  Nawara,  since  now  she  dwells  at  a  distance, 
and  all  the  bonds  of  union  between  her  and  thee, 
both  strong  and  weak,  are  torn  asunder? 

17.  A  damsel,  who  sometimes  has  her  abode  in 
Faid,  and  sometimes  is  a  neighbour  to  the  people  of 
Hejaaz  1 — how  can  she  be  an  object  of  thy  desire  ? 

18.  She  alights  at  the  eastern  side  of  the  two 
mountains,  Aja  and  Salma^  and  then  stops  on  the  hills 
of  Mohajjer;  Rokhaam  also  and  Ferda  receive  her 
with  joy. 

19.  When  she  travels  towards  Yemen,  we  may 
suppose  that  she  rests  at  Sawayik;  and  baits  at  the 
stations  of  Wahaaf  and  Telkhaanu 

20.  Break  then  so  vain  a  connection  with  a 
mistress  whose  regard  has  ceased;  for  hapless  is  a 
union  with  a  maid  who  has  broken  her  vow  I 

21.  When  a  damsel  is  kind  and  complacent,  love 
her  with  ardent  affection ;  but  when  her  faith  staggers 
and  her  constancy  is  shaken,  let  your  disunion  be 
unalterably  fixed. 

22.  Execute  thy  purpose^  O  Ldfeid,  on  a  camel, 
wearied  by  long  journeys,  which  have  left  but  little 
of  her  former  strength; — a  camel  whose  sides  are 
emaciated,  and  on  whose  back  the  bunch  is  di- 
minished; 

23.  Yet  even  in  this  condition,  when  her  flesh 
is  extenuated,  and  her  hair  thin,  when,  after  many 
a  toilsome  day,  the  thong  of  her  shoes  is  broken, — 


44  THE  MOALLAKAl, 

24.  Even  now  she  has  a  spirit  so  brisk,  that 
she  flies  with  the  rein,  like  a  dun  cloud  driven  by 
the  south  wind,  after  it  has  discharged  its  shower ; 

25.  Or  like  a  female  wild-ass,  whose  teats  are 
distended  with  milk,  while  the  male,  by  whom  she 
is  with  foal,  is  grown  lean  with  driving  his  rivals 
from  her,  with  biting  and  kicking  them  in  his  rage. 

26.  He  runs  with  her  up  the  crooked  hills, 
although  he  has  been  wounded  in  his  battles ;  but 
her  present  co)mess,  compared  with  her  late  fond- 
ness, fills  him  with  surprise. 

27.  He  ascends  the  sandy  hillock  of  Thalbut, 
and  explores  its  deserted  top,  fearing  lest  an  enemy 
should  lurk  behind  the  guide-stones. 

28.  There  they  remain  till  the  close  of  the  sixth 
month,  till  the  frosty  season  is  past ;  they  subsist  on 
herbage  without  water :  their  time  of  fasting  and  of 
retirement  is  long. 

29.  The  thorns  of  the  buhma-plant  wound  their 
hind-legs,  and  the  sultry  winds  of  summer  drive  them 
violently  in  their  course. 

30.  At  length  they  form  in  their  minds  a  fixed 
resolution  of  seeking  some  cool  rivulet^  and  the  object 
of  their  settled  purpose  is  nearly  attained. 

31.  They  alternately  raise  high  clouds  of  dust  with 
an  extended  shade,  as  the  smoke  rises  fh>m  a  pile  of 
dry  wood  newly  kindled  and  flaming, 

32.  When  fresh  arfadge-plants  are  mingled  in  the 
heap,  and  the  north  wind  plays  with  the  blazing  fire. 


THE  POEM  OF  LEBEID.  45 

33.  He  passes  on,  but  makes  her  run  before  him ; 
for  such  is  his  usual  course,  when  he  fears  that  she 
will  linger  behind. 

34.  They  rush  over  the  margin  of  the  rivulet,  they 
divide  the  waters  of  the  full  stream,  whose  banks  are 
covered  with  the  plants  of  kolaam, — 

35.  Banks,  which  a  grove  of  reeds,  part  erect  and 
part  laid  prostrate,  overshades  or  clothes,  as  with  a 
mantle. 

36.  Is  this  the  swiftness  ofvay  camel?  No;  rather 
she  resembles  a  wild-cow,  whose  calf  has  been  de- 
voured by  ravenous  beasts,  when  she  has  suffered  him 
to  graze  apart,  and  relied  for  his  protection  on  the 
leader  of  the  herd ; 

37.  A  mother  with  flat  nostrils ;  who,  as  soon  as 
she  misses  her  young  one,  ceases  not  to  run  hastily 
round  the  vales  between  the  sand-hills,  and  to  fill 
them  with  her  mournful  cries ; 

38.  With  cries  for  her  white-haired  young,  who 
now  lies  rolled  in  dust,  after  the  dun  wolves — 
hunters  of  the  desert — ^have  divided  his  mangled 
limbs,  and  their  feast  has  not  been  interrupted 

39.  They  met  him  in  the  moment  of  her  neglect ; 
they  seized  him  with  eagerness ;  for,  oh,  how  tmerring 
are  the  arrows  of  death  ! 

40.  She  passes  the  night  in  agony ;  while  the  rain 
£dls  in  a  continued  shower,  and  drenches  the  tangled 
groves  with  a  profuse  stream. 


46  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

41.  She  shelters  herself  under  the  root  of  a  tree, 
whose  boughs  are  thick,  apart  from  other  trees^  by  the 
edge  of  a  hiU,  whose  fine  sands  are  shaken  by  her 
motion ; 

42.  Yet  the  successive  drops  fall  on  her  striped 
back,  while  the  clouds  of  night  veil  the  light  of  the 
stars. 

43.  Her  white  hair  glimmers  when  the  darkness 
is  just  coming  on,  and  sparkles  like  the  pearls  of  a 
merchant,  when  he  scatters  them  from  their  string. 

44.  At  length,  when  the  clouds  are  dispersed,  and 
the  dawn  appears,  she  rises  early,  and  her  hoofs  glide 
on  the  slippery  groimd. 

45.  She  grows  impatient,  and  wild  with  grief :  she 
lies  frantic  in  the  pool  of  Soa3rid  for  seven  whole  days 
with  their  twin-sisters,  seifen  nights; 

46.  And  now  she  is  in  total  despair;  her  teats, 
which  were  full  of  milk,  are  grown  flaccid  and  dry, 
though  they  are  not  worn  by  suckling  and  weaning 
her  young. 

47.  She  now  hears  the  cry  of  the  hunters;  she 
hears  it,  but  sees  them  not ;  she  trembles  with  fear : 
for  she  knows  that  the  hunters  bring  her  destruction. 

48.  She  sits  quivering,  and  imagines  that  the  cause 
of  her  dread  will  appear  on  one  side  and  the  other, 
before  and  behind  her. 

49.  When  the  archers  despair  of  reaching  her  with 
their  shafts^  they  let  slip  their  long-eared  hounds, 
answering  to  their  names,  with  bodies  dry  and  thin. 


THE  POEM  OF  LEBEID.  47 

50.  They  rush  on:  but  she  brandishes  against 
them  her  extended  horns,  both  long  and  sharp  as 
javelins  made  by  the  skilful  hand  of  Samhar, 

51.  Striving  to  repel  them  i  for  she  knows  that,  if 
her  effort  be  vain,  the  destined  moment  of  her  death 
must  soon  approach : 

52.  Then  she  drives  the  dog  Casaab  to  his  fate; 
she  is  stained  with  his  blood ;  and  Sokhaam  is  left 
prostrate  on  the  field. 

53.  On  a  camel  like  this,  when  the  flashes  of  the 
noontide  vapour  dance  over  the  plain,  and  the  sultry 
mist  clothes  the  parched  hills, 

54.  I  accomplish  my  bold  design,  fi'om  which  I 
am  not  deterred  by  any  fear  of  reprehension  from  the 
most  censorious  man. 

55.  Knowest  thou  not,  O  Nawara,  that  I  preserve 
the  knot  of  affection  entire,  or  cut  it  in  two,  as  the 
objects  of  it  are  constant  or  faithless  ? 

56.  That  I  would  leave  without  reluctance  a 
country. not  congenial  to  my  disposition,  although 
death  were  instantly  to  overtake  my  soul  ? 

57.  Ah,  thou  knowest  not  how  many  serene  nights, 
vrith  sweet  sport  and  mirthful  revehy, 

58.  I  pass  in  gay  conversation ;  and  often  return 
to  the  flag  of  the  wine-merchant,  when  he  spreads  it  in 
the  air,  and  sells  his  wine  at  a  high  price : 

59.  I  purchase  the  old  liquor  at  a  dear  rate,  in 
dark  leathern  bottles  long  reposited,  or  in  casks,  black 
with  pitch,  whose  seals  I  break,  and  then  fill  the 
cheerfiil  goblet 


48 


THE  MOALLAKAT. 


60.  How  often  do  I  quaff  pure  wine  in  the  moming, 
and  draw  towards  me  the  fair  lutanist,  whose  delicate 
fingers  skilfiilly  touch  the  strings  ! 

61.  I  rise  before  the  cock  to  take  my  morning 
draughty  which  I  sip  again  and  again,  when  the 
sleepers  of  the  dawn  awake. 

62.  On  many  a  cold  morning,  when  the  freezing 
winds  howl,  and  the  hand  pf  the  North  holds  their 
reins,  I  turn  aside  their  blast /r^TW  the  travellers^  whom 
I  receive  in  my  tent, 

63.  When  I  rise  early  to  defend  my  tribe,  my  arms 
are  borne  by  a  swift  horse,  whose  girths  resemble  my 
sash  adorned  with  gems. 

64.  I  ascend  a  dusty  hill  to  explore  the  situation 
of  the  foe,  and  our  dust,  flying  in  clouds,  reaches  the 
hostile  standard. 

65.  At  length,  when  the  sun  begins  to  sink  into 
darkness,  and  the  veil  of  night  conceals  the  ambuscade 
and  the  stratagems  of  our  enemy, 

66.  I  descend  into  the  vale ;  and  my  steed  raises 
his  neck  like  the  smooth  branch  of  a  lofty  palm, 
which  he  who  wishes  to  cut  it  cannot  reach : 

67.  I  incite  him  to  run  like  a  fleet  ostrich  in  his 
impetuous  course,  until,  when  he  boils  in  his  rage  and 
his  bones  are  light, 

68.  His  trappings  are  strongly  agitated ;  a  shower 
flows  down  his  neck ;  and  his  surcingle  is  bathed  in 
the  scalding  foam. 


THE  POEM  OF  LEBEID.  49 

69.  He  lifts  his  head  :  he  flies  at  liberty  with  the 
loose  rein  ;  and  hastens  to  his  goal,  as  a  dove  hastens 
to  the  brook  when  her  feverish  thirst  rages. 

70.  There  is  a  mansion  (the  palace  of  Namaan) 
filled  with  guests,  unknown  to  each  other ;  hoping  for 
presents  and  fearing  reproof : 

71.  It  is  inhabited  by  men,  like  strong-necked 
lions,  who  menace  one  another  with  malignant  hate,, 
like  the  demons  of  Badiya,  with  feet  firmly  riveted  in 
the  conflict 

72.  I  disputed  their  false  pretensions,  yet  admitted 
their  real  merit,  according  to  my  judgment ;  nor  could 
the  noblest  among  them  surpass  me  in  renown. 

73.  Oft  have  I  invited  a  numerous  company  to  the 
death  of  a  camel  bought  for  slaughter,  to  be  divided 
by  lot  with  arrows  of  equal  dimensions : 

74.  I  invite  them  to  draw  lots  for  a  camel  without 
a  foal,  and  for  a  camel  with  her  young  one,  whose  flesh 
I  distribute  to  all  the  neighbours. 

75.  The  guest  and  the  stranger,  admitted  to  my^ 
board,  seem  to  have  alighted  in  the  sweet  vale  of 
Tebaala,  luxuriant  with  vernal  blossoms. 

76.  To  the  cords  of  my  tent  approaches  every 
needy  matron,  worn  with  fatigue,  like  a  camel  doomed 
to  die  at  her  master's  tomb,  whose  vesture  is  both 
scanty  and  ragged. 

77.  There  they  crown  with  meat,  while  the  wintry 
winds  contend  with  fierce  blasts,  a  dish  flowing  like  a 
rivulet,  into  which  the  famished  orphans  eagerly  plunge. 


so  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

78.  When  the  nations  are  assembled,  some  hero 
of  our  tribe,  firm  in  debate,  never  fails  by  superior 
powers  to  surmount  the  greatest  difficulty. 

79.  He  distributes  equal  shares ;  he  dispenses  jus- 
tice to  the  tribes;  he  is  indignant  when  their  right 
is  diminished ;  and,  to  establish  their  right,  often 
relinquishes  his  own. 

80.  He  acts  with  greatness  of  mind  and  with 
nobleness  of  heart :  he  sheds  the  dew  of  his  liber- 
ality on  those  who  need  his  assistance  ; —  he  scatters 
around  his  own  gains  and  precious  spoils,  the  prizes 
of  his  valour. 

81.  He  belongs  to  a  tribe  whose  ancestors  have 
left  them  a  perfect  model ;  and  every  tribe  that  de- 
sc  ends  from  us  will  have  patterns  of  excellence,  and 
objects  of  imitation. 

82.  If  their  succour  be  asked,  they  instantly  brace 
on  their  helmets,  while  .their  lances  and  breast-plates 
glitter  like  stars. 

%'^.  Their  actions  are  not  sullied  by  the  rust  of 
time,  or  tarnished  by  disgrace;  for  their  virtues  are 
unshaken  by  any  base  desires. 

84.  He  hath  raised  for  us  a  fabric  of  glory  with  a 
1(  y  summit,  to  which  all  the  aged  and  all  the  young 
r    n  of  our  tribe  aspire. 

85.  Be  content,  therefore,  with  the  dispensations 
c  I  he  Supreme  Ruler ;  for  He,  who  best  knows  our 
11  lure,  has  dispensed  justice  among  us. 


1 


THE  POEM  OF  LEBEID.  51 

86.  When  peace  has  been  established  by  our  tribe, 
-we  keep  it  inviolate ;  and  He,  who  makes  it,  renders 
■our  prosperity  complete. 

87.  Noble  are  the  exertions  of  our  heroes,  when 
the  tribe  struggle  with  hardships  :  they  are  our  leaders 
in  war,  and  in  peace  the  deciders  of  our  claims : 

88.  They  are  an  enlivening  spring  to  their  indigent 
neighbours,  and  to  the  disconsolate  widows,  whose  year 
passes  heavily  away : 

89.  They  are  an  illustrious  race ;  although  their 
«nviers  may  be  slow  in  commending  them,  and  the 
malevolent  censurer  may  incline  to  their  foe. 


ANT  ARA. 


THE    ARGUMENT. 


THIS  Poem  appears  (o  have  been  a  litlle  older  than  that 
of  Zohair  ;  for  it  must  have  been  composed  during  the 
wart  of  Dahis,  which  the  maEnanimity  of  the  two  chiefs, 
extolled  by  Zohair,  "so  noblj'  terminated,"  Antara,  the  gallant 
Absite,  distinguished  himself  very  early  in  the  war  by  his  valour 
in  altacking  the  tribe  of  Dhobyan,  and  boasts  in  this  composition 
that  he  had  slain  Demdem,  the  father  of  Ho^in  and  of  Harem, 
whom  Ward,  the  son  of  Habes,  afterwards  put  to  death.  An 
oU  enmity  subsisted,  it  seems,  between  our  poet  and  those  Iwa 
young  men,  who,  as  Aniara  believed,  had  calumniated  him  with- 
out provocation  ;  and  his  chief  object  in  this  poem  was  to  blaion 
his  own  achievements  and  exploits,  and  to  denounce  implacable 
resentment  against  the  calumniators,  whom  his  menaces  were 
likely  to  intimidate.  Vet  so  harsh  an  argument  is  tempered  by 
a  strain  in  some  parts  elegiac  and  amatory  ;  for  even  this  venge- 
ful impetuous  warrior  found  himself  obliged  Jo  comply  with  the 
custom  of  the  Arabian  poets,  "  who  had  Icfl,"  as  he  complains, 
"  little  new  imagery  for  their  11 


THE  POEM  OF  ANTARA,  53 


He  begins  with  a  pathetic  address  to  the  bower  of  his  beloved 
Abla,  and  to  the  ruins  of  her  deserted  mansion  :  he  bewails  her 
sudden  departure,  the  distance  of  her  new  abode,  and  the  un- 
happy variance  between  their  respective  clans  :  he  describes  his 
passion  and  the  beauties  of  his  mistress  with  great  energy:  thence 
he  passes  to  his  own  laborious  course  of  life,  contrasted  with  the 
voluptuous  indolence  of  the  fair,  and  gives  a  forcible  description 
of  his  camel,  whom  he  compares  to  a  male  ostrich  hastening  to 
visit  the  eggs,  which  the  female  (whose  usual  neglect  of  them 
is  mentioned  by  naturalists)  had  left  in  a  remote  valley.  He 
next  expatiates  on  his  various  accomplishments  and  virtues : 
his  mildness  to  those  who  treat  him  kindly,  his  fierceness  to 
those  who  injure  him  ;  his  disregard  of  wealth,  his  gaiety,  liber- 
ality, and,  above  all,  his  military  prowess  and  spirit  of  enterprise, 
on  which  he  triumphantly  enlarges  through  the  rest  of  the  poem, 
except  four  couplets,  in  which  he  alludes  obscurely  to  a  certain 
love  adventure  ;  and  after  many  animated  descriptions  of  battles 
and  single  combats,  he  concludes  with  a  wish  that  he  may  live 
to  slay  the  two  sons  of  Demdem,  and  with  a  bitter  exultation  on 
the  death  of  their  father,  whom  he  had  left  a  prey  to  the  wild 
Jseasts  and  the  vultures. 


The  metre  is  iambic,  like  that  of  the  poem  immediately  pre- 
ceding. 


THE  POEM  OF  ANTARA. 

|AVE  the  bards  who  preceded  me  left  any 
theme  unsung  ?     What^  therefore^  shall  he 
my  subject?    Love  only  must  supply  my 
lay.     Dost  thou  then  recollect,  after  long 
consideration,  the  mansion  of  thy  beloved  ? 

2.  O  bower  of  Abla,  in  the  valley  of  Jiwaa,  give 
me  tidings  of  my  love  I  O  bower  of  Abla,  may  the 
morning  rise  on  thee  with  prosperity  and  health ! 

3.  There  I  stopped  my  camel,  large  as  a  tower» 
the  anguish  of  my  passion  having  delayed  the  accom- 
plishment  of  my  bold  enterprise, 

4.  Whilst  Abla  was  dwelling  in  Jiwaa,  and  our 
tribe  were  stationed  in  Hazn,  and  Samaan,  and 
Motathallem. 

5.  HaD,  dear  ruins !  with  whose  possessors  I  had 
old  engagements ;  more  dreary  and  more  desolate  are 
you  become^  after  the  departure  of  my  beloved  0mm. 
Alheitham  I 

6.  She  dwells  in  the  land  of  my  foes,  like  roaring 
lions  :  oh,  how  painful  has  been  my  search  after  thee, 
fair  daughter  of  Makhrem  ! 

7.  I  felt  myself  attached  to  her  at  our  first  interview, 
although  I  had  slain  her  countrymen  in  battle :  I  assure 
thee,  by  the  life  of  thy  father,  that  of  my  attachment 
there  can  be  no  doubt. 


THE  POEM  OF  ANTARA.  55 

8.  Thou  hast  possessed  thysdf  of  my  heart;  thou 
hast  fixed  thy  abode  in  it  (imagine  not  that  I  dehide 
thee),  and  art  settled  there  as  a  beloved  and  cherished 
inhabitant 

9.  Yet  how  can  I  visit  my  fair  one,  whilst  her 
family  have  their  vernal  mansion  in  Oneizatain,  and 
mine  are  stationed  in  Ghailem  ? 

10.  Surely  thou  hast  firmly  resolved  to  depart 
firom  me,  since  the  camels  of  thy  tribe  are  bridled 
even  in  so  dark  a  night 

11.  Nothing  so  much  alarms  me  with  a  signal  of 
her  destined  removal  ^s  my  seeing  the  camels  of  burden, 
which  belong  to  her  tribe,  grazing  on  khimkhim- 
berries  in  the  midst  of  their  tents : 

12.  Among  them  are  forty-two  milch-camels,  dark 
as  the  plumes  of  a  coal-black  raven. 

13.  Then,  Antara,  she  pierced  thee  to  the  heart 
with  her  well-pointed  teeth  exquisitely  white,  the 
kiss  of  which  is  delicious,  and  the  taste  ravishingly 
sweet ! 

14.  From  the  mouth  of  this  lovely  damsel,  when 
you  kiss  her  lips,  proceeds  the  fragrance  of  musk,  as 
firom  the  vase  of  a  perfumer ; 

15.  Or  like  the  scent  of  a  blooming  bower,  whose 
plants  the  gentle  rains  have  kept  in  continual  verdure, 
which  no  filth  has  sullied,  and  to  which  there  has  been 
no  resort : 


56  THE  MOALLAKAT, 


I 


II 


16.  Every  morning-cloud,  dear  of  hail,  has 
drenched  it  with  a  plentiHil  shower,  and  has  left 
all  the  little  cavities  in  the  earth  both  round  and 
bright  as  coins  of  silver : 

1 7.  Profusely  and  copiously  it  descends  \  and  every 
evening  the  stream,  which  nothing  intercepts,  gushes 
rapidly  through  it 

18.  The  flies  remain  in  it  with  incessant  buzzing, 
and  their  murmurs  are  like  the  song  of  a  man  ex- 
hilarated with  wine : 

19.  Their  sound,  when  they  strike  their  slender 
legs  against  each  other,  is  like  the  sound  of  a  flint, 
from  which  the  sparks  are  forced  by  a  man  with  one 
arm,  intent  upon  his  labour. 

20.  While  thou,  fair  Abla,  reclinest  both  evening 
and  morning  on  the  lap  of  a  soft  couch,  I  pass  whole 
nights  on  the  back  of  a  dark-coloured  horse  well 
caparisoned : 

21.  My  only  cushion  is  the  saddle  of  a  charger 
with  firm  thick  feet,  strong-sided,  and  large  in  the 
place  of  his  girths. 

22.  Shall  a  camel  of  Shaden  bear  me  to  thy  tent, 
a  camel,  far  removed  from  her  country,  destitute  of 
milk,  and  separated  from  the  herd  ? 

23.  She  waves  her  tail  in  her  playful  mood,  and 
proudly  moves  her  body  from  side  to  side,  even  at 
the  end  of  her  nightly  excursion :  she  strikes  the  hills 
with  her  quickly-moving  and  firmly-trampling  hoofs. 


THE  POEM  OF  ANTARA.  57 

■  '      ^— —        1 1  ■  ■  p  I  ■     I    I      ^  ■■.■■■■—■■■       ■  ^  ■  ■  I  ■  ■■■  —         ■  ■■■ 

24.  Thus  the  bird  without  ears,  between  whose 
feet  there  is  but  a  small  space,  the  swift  ostrich  beats 
the  ground  in  his  evening  course. 

25.  The  young  ostriches  gather  themselves  around 
him,  as  a  multitude  of  black  Yemenian  camels  assemble 
round  their  Abyssinian  herdmany  who  is  unable  to 
express  himself  in  the  language  of  Arabia, 

26.  They  follow  him,  guided  by  the  loftiness  of 
his  head,  which  resembles  the  carriage  of  traveUing 
damsels,  raised  on  high,  and  covered  like  a  tent 

27.  His  head,  though  lofty ^  is  small :  when  he  is 
going  to  visit  the  eggs,  which  his  female  left  in  Dhula- 
sheira,  he  looks  like  an  Ethiop  with  short  ears  in  a 
trailing  garment  of  furred  hides. 

28.  My  camel  drinks  the  water  of  Dehradhain,  but 
starts  aside  with  disdain  from  the  hostile  rivulets  of 
Dailem. 

29.  She  turns  her  right  side,  as  if  she  were  in  fear 
of  some  large-headed  screamer  of  the  night, — 

30.  Of  a  hideous  wild-cat  fixed  to  her  body,  who, 
as  often  as  she  bent  herself  towards  him  in  her  wrath, 
assailed  her  with  his  daws  and  his  teeth. 

31.  I  continue  all  day  on  the  well-cemented  tower 
of  her  back,  strongly  raised,  and  firm  as  the  pillars  of 
him  who  pitches  a  tent. 

32.  When  she  rests,  she  crouches  on  the  soft  bank 
of  Ridaa,  and  groans  through  fatigue,  like  the  soft 
sounding  reed,  which  she  presses  with  her  weight 


58  THE  MOALLAKAT, 


33.  Her  sweat  resembles  thick  rob  or  tenacious 
pitch,  which  the  kindled  fire  causes  to  bubble  in  the 
sides  of  a  caldron  ; 

34.  It  gushes  from  behind  her  ears,  when  she  boils 
with  rage,  exults  in  her  strength,  and  struts  in  her 
pride,  like  the  stallion  of  her  herd,  when  his  rivals 
assail  him. 

35.  O  Abla,  although  thou  droppest  thy  veil  before 
me,  yet  know,  that  by  my  agility  I  have  made  captive 
many  a  knight  clad  in  complete  armour. 

36.  Bestow  on  me  the  commendation  which  thou 
knowest  to  be  due;  since  my  nature  is  gentle  and  mild, 
when  my  rights  are  not  invaded ; 

37.  But,  when  I  am  injured,  my  resentment  is 
firm,  and  bitter  as  coloquinteda  to  the  taste  of  the 
aggressor. 

38.  I  quaff,  when  the  noontide  heat  is  abated,  old 
wine,  purchased  with  bright  and  well-stamped  coin  ; 

39.  I  quaif  it  in  a  goblet  of  yellow  glass  variegated 
with  white  streaks,  whose  companion  is  a  glittering 
jQagon,  well  secured  by  its  lid  from  the  blasts  of  the 
north : 

40.  When  I  drink  it,  my  wealth  is  dissipated,  but 
my  &me  remains  abundant  and  unimpaired  ; 

41.  And  when  I  return  to  sobriety,  the  dew  of  my 
liberality  continues  as  fresh  as  before  :  give  due  hon- 
our, therefore,  to  those  qualities  which  thou  knowest 
me  to  possess. 


THE  POEM  OF  ANTARA.  5^ 

42.  Many  a  consort  of  a  £air  one,  whose  beauty 
required  no  ornaments,  have  I  left  prostrate  on  the 
ground ;  and  the  life-blood  has  run  sounding  from  his 
veins,  opened  by  my  javelin,  like  the  mouth  of  a  camel 
with  a  divided  lip  : 

43.  With  a  nimble  and  double-handed  stroke,  I 
prevented  his  attack ;  and  the  stream  that  gushed 
from  the  penetrating  wound  bore  the  colour  of 
anemones. 

44.  Go,  ask  the  warriors,  O  daughter  of  Malec,  if 
thou  art  ignorant  of  my  valour,  <isk  them  that  which 
thou  knowest  not ; 

45.  Ask  haw  I  act,  when  I  am  constantly  fixed 
to  the  saddle  of  an  elegant  horse,  swimming  in  his 
course,  whom  my  bold  antagonists  alternately  wound  ; 

46.  Yet  sometimes  he  advances  alone  to  the 
conflict,  and  sometimes  he  stands  collected  in  a 
multitudinous  throng  of  heroes  with  strong  bows : 

47.  Ask^  and  whoever  has  been  witness  to  the 
combat  will  inform  thee  that  I  am  impetuous  in 
battle,  but  regardless  of  the  spoils. 

48.  Many  a  warrior,  clad  in  a  suit  of  mail,  at 
whose  violent  assault  the  boldest  men  have  trembled, 
who  neither  had  saved  himself  by  swift  flight  nor  by 
abject  submission, 

49.  Has  this  arm  laid  prone  with  a  rapid  blow 
from  a  well-straightened  javelin,  firm  between  the 
knots : 


6o  THE  MOALLAKAT, 


50.  Broad  were  the  lips  of  the  wound ;  and  the 
noise  of  the  rushing  blood  called  forth  the  wolves, 
prowling  in  the  night,  and  pinched  jvith  hunger  : 

51.  With  my  swift  lance  did  I  pierce  his  coat  of 
mail ;  and  no  warrior,  however  brave,  is  secure  from 
its  point 

52.  I  left  him,  like  a  sacrificed  victim,  to  the  lions 
of  the  forest,  who  feasted  on  him  between  the  crown 
of  his  head  and  his  wrists. 

53.  Often  have  I  burst  the  interior  folds  of  a 
well-wrought  habergeon,  worn  by  a  famed  warrior 
appointed  to  maintain  his  post  ; 

54.  Whose  hands  were  brisk  in  casting  lots,  when 
winter  demands  such  recreation:  a  man  censtured 
for  his  disregard  of  wealth,  and  for  causing  the 
wine-merchant  to  strike  his  flag,  by  purchasing  all 
his  store, 

55.  When  he  saw  me  descend  from  my  steed,  and 
rush  towards  him,  he  grinned  with  horror,  but  with  no 
smile  of  joy. 

56.  My  engagement  with  him  lasted  the  whole 
day,  until  his  head  and  fingers,  covered  with  clotted 
gore,  appeared  to  be  stained  with  the  juice  of 
idhlim. 

57.  Then  I  fixed  him  with  my  lance ;  I  struck  him 
to  the  heart  with  an  Indian  scimitar,  the  blade  of 
which  was  of  a  bright  water,  and  rapid  was  the  stroke 
it  gave : 


THE  POEM  OF  ANTARA,  6i 


58.  A  warrior,  whose  armour  seemed  to  be  braced 
on  a  lofty  tree  \  a  chief,  who,  like  a  king,  wore  sandals 
of  leather  stained  with  Egyptian  thorn :  a  hero,  with- 
out an  equal 

59.  O  lovely  heifer !  what  a  sweet  prey  was  she  to 
a  hunter  permitted  to  chase  her !  To  me  she  was 
wholly  denied:  oh,  would  to  heaven  that  she  had 
not  been  forbidden  me ! 

60.  I  sent  forth  my  handmaid,  and  said  to  her : 
"Go,  ask  tidings  inquisitively  of  my  beloved,  and 
bring  me  intelligence." 

61.  She  said:  "I  have  seen  the  hostile  guards 
negligent  of  their  watch,  and  the  wild  heifer  may 
be  smitten  by  any  archer  who  desires  to  shoot  her.  " 

62.  Then  she  turned  towards  me  with  the  neck  of 
a  young  roe,  well  grown,  of  an  exquisite  breed  among 
the  gazals  of  the  wood  :  a  roe  with  a  milk-white  face. 

63.  I  have  been  informed  of  a  man  ungrateful  for 
my  kindness;  but  ingratitude  turns  the  mind  of  a 
benefactor  from  any  more  beneficence. 

64.  The  instructions  which  my  valiant  uncle  gave 
me  I  have  diligently  observed ;  at  the  time  when  the 
lips  are  drawn  away  from  the  bright  teeth, 

65.  In  the  struggle  of  the  fight,  into  whose  deepest 
gulfs  the  warriors  plunge  themselves  without  complaint 
or  murmur. 

66.  When  my  tribe  has  placed  me  as  a  shield 
between  them  and  the  hostile  spears,  I  have  not 
ignobly  declined  the  danger,  although  the  place  where 
I  fixed  my  foot  was  too  narrow  to  admit  a  companion. 


62  THE  MOALLAKAT, 


67.  When  I  heard  the  din  of  Moira  raised  in  the 
field,  and  the  sons  of  Rabeia  in  the  thick  dust ; 

(^Z*    And  the  shouts  of  Dhohol  at  the  moment  of 
assault,  when  they  rush  in  troops  to  the  conflict  with 
all  their  sharp-biting  lions  ; 

69.  When  even  the  mildest  of  the  tribes  saw  the 
skirmish  under  their  standards  (and  Death  spreads 
havoc  under  the  standard  of  the  mildest  nation), 

70.  Then  I  knew  with  certainty,  that,  in  so  fierce 
a  contest  with  them,  many  a  heavy  blow  would 
make  the  perched  birds  of  the  brain  fly  quickly 
from  every  skull: 

71.  As  soon  as  I  beheld  the  legions  of  our  enemies 
advancing,  and  animating  one  another  to  battle,  I  too 
rushed  forward,  and  acted  without  reproach. 

72.  The  troops  called  out  "Antaral"  while  jave- 
lins, long  as  the  cords  of  a  well,  were  forcibly  thrust 
against  the  chest  of  my  dark  steed. 

73.  I  ceased  not  to  charge  the  foe  with  the  neck 
and  breast  of  my  horse,  until  he  was  mantled  in 
blood. 

74.  My  steed,  bent  aside  with  the  stroke  of  the 
lances  in  his  forehead,  complained  to  me  with  gush- 
ing tears  and  tender  sobbing  : 

75.  Had  he  known  the  art  of  discourse,  he  would 
have  addressed  me  in  a  plaintive  strain ;  and  had  he 
possessed  the  faculty  of  speech,  he  would  have  spoken 
to  me  distinctly. 


THE  POEM  OF  ANTARA.  63 

76.  In  the  midst  of  the  black  dust,  the  horses  were 
impetuously  rushing  with  disfigured  countenances; 
every  robust  stallion  and  every  strong-limbed  short- 
haired  male. 

77.  Then  my  soul  was  healed,  and  all  my  anguish 
was  dispersed  by  the  cry  of  the  warriors,  saying,  "  Well 
done,  Antara :  charge  again  ! " 

78.  My  camels  too  are  obedient  to  my  will,  as 
often  as  I  desire  to  kindle  the  ardour  of  my  heart,  and 
press  it  on  to  some  arduous  enterprise. 

79.  Yet  I  fear  lest  death  should  seize  me  before 
the  adverse  turn  of  war  has  overtaken  the  two  sons 
of  Demdem  : 

80.  Men  who  attacked  my  reputation,  when  I  had 
given  them  no  offence,  and  vowed,  when  I  had  never 
assailed  them,  to  shed  my  blood ; — 

81.  Yes,  they  injured  me :  but  I  have  left  their 
father,  like  a  victim,  to  be  mangled  by  the  lions  of  the 
wood,  and  by  the  eagles  advanced  in  years. 


THE 


POEM 


OF 


A  M  R  U. 


THE    ARGUMENT. 


THE  discordant  and  inconsistent  accounts  of  the  commen- 
tators, who  seem  to  have  collected  without  examination 
every  tradition  that  presented  itself,  have  left  us  very 
much  in  the  dark  on  the  subject  of  the  two  following  poems ;  but 
the  common  opinion,  which  appears  to  me  the  most  probable,  is 
that  they  are,  in  fact,  political  and  adverse  declamations,  which 
were  delivered  by  Amru  and  Hareth  at  the  head  of  their  re- 
spective clans,  before  Amru  the  son  of  Hinda,  King  of  Hira  in 
Mesopotamia,  who  had  assumed  the  office  of  mediator  between 
them  after  a  most  obstinate  war,  and  had  undertaken  to  hear  a 
discussion  of  their  several  claims  to  pre-eminence,  and  to  decide 
their  cause  with  perfect  impartiality.  In  some  copies,  indeed,  as 
in  those  of  Nahas  and  of  Zauzeni,  the  two  poems  are  separated ; 
and  in  that  of  Obaidalla  the  poem  of  Hareth  is  totally  omitted. 

Were  I  to  draw  my  opinion  solely  from  the  structure  and 
general  turn  of  Amnios  composition,  I  should  conceive  that 
the  King  of  Hira,  who,  like  other  tyrants,  wished  "  to  make  all 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRU.  6$ 

men  just  but  himself,  and  to  leave  all  nations  free  but  his  own," 
had  attempted  to  enslave  the  powerful  tribe  of  Tagleb,  and  to 
appoint  a  prefect  over  them,  but  that  the  warlike  possessors  of 
the  deserts  and  forests  had  openly  disclaimed  his  authority, 
and  employed  their  principal  leader  and  poet  to  send  him  de- 
fiance, and  magnify  their  own  independent  spirit. 

Some  Arabian  writers  assert,  what  there  is  abundant  reason  to 
believe,  that  the  above-mentioned  king  was  killed  by  the  author 
of  the  following  poem,  who  composed  it,  say  they,  on  that  occa- 
sion ;  but  the  king  himself  is  personally  addressed  by  the  poet, 
and  warned  against  precipitation  in  deciding  the  contest ;  and 
where  mention  is  made  of  "crowned  heads  left  prostrate  on 
the  field,"  no  particular  monarch  seems  to  be  intended  ;  but  the 
conjunction  copiUatvve  has  the  force,  as  it  often  has  in  Arabic, 
of  ^frequentative  particle. 

Let  us  then,  where  certainty  cannot  be  obtained,  be  satisfied 
with  high  probability,  and  suppose,  with  Tabreizi,  that  the  two 
tribes  of  Beer  and  Tagleb,  having  exhausted  one  another  in  a 
long  war,  to  which  the  murder  of  Coleib  the  Taglebite  had  given 
rise,  agreed  to  terminate  their  ruinous  quarrel,  and  to  make  the 
King  of  Hira  their  umpire  ;  that  on  the  day  appointed  the  tribes 
met  before  the  palace  or  royal  tent,  and  that  Amru  the  son  of 
Celthum,  prince  of  the  Taglebites,  either  pronounced  his  poem, 
according  to  the  custom  of  the  Arabs,  or  stated  his  pretensions 
in  a  solemn  speech,  which  he  afterwards  versified,  that  it  might 
be  more  easily  remembered  by  his  tribe  and  their  posterity. 

The  oration,  or  poem,  or  whatever  it  may  be  called,  is  arro- 
gant beyond  all  imagination,  and  contains  hardly  a  colour  of 
argument.  The  prince  was  most  probably  a  vain  young  man, 
proud  of  his  accomplishments,  and  elate  with  success  in  his  wars  ; 
but  his  production  could  not  fail  of  becoming  extremely  popular 
among  his  countrymen ;  and  his  own  family,  the  descendants  of 
Josham  the  son  of  Beer,  were  so  infatuated  with  it  that  (as  one 
of  their  own  poets  admits)  *'  they  could  scarce  ever  desist  firom 


M  THE  MOALLAKAT. 


repeating  '%  and  thought  they  had  attained  the  summit  of  gloiy, 
without  any  farther  exertions  of  virtue." 

He  begins  with  a  strain  perfectly  Anacreontic  ;  the  elegiac 
style  of  the  former  poems  not  being  well  adapted  to  his  eager 
exultation  and  triumph  :  yet  there  is  some  mixture  of  com[daint 
on  the  departure  of  his  mistress,  whose  beauties  he  delineates 
with  a  boldness  and  energy  highly  characteristic  of  unpolished 
maimers.  The  rest  of  his  work  consists  of  menaces,  vaunts,  and 
exaggerated  applause  of  his  own  tribe  for  their  generosity  and 
prowess,  the  goodness  of  their  horses,  the  beauty  of  their  women, 
the  extent  of  their  possessions,  and  even  the  number  of  their 
ships ; — which  boasts  were  so  well  founded  that,  according  to 
some  authors,  if  Mohammed  had  not  been  bom,  the  Taglebites 
would  have  appropriated  the  dominion  of  all  Arabia,  and 
possibly  would  have  erected  a  mighty  state,  both  civil  and 
maritime. 


This  poem  is  composed  in  copiotts  verse,  or  metre  of  the  fourth 
species,  according  to  the  following  form  : 

"  Amatores  |  puellarum  |  misellos 
Ocellorum  |  nitor  multos  |  fefellit." 
But  the  compound  foot  amorejurens  is  used  at  pleasure,  instead 
of  the  first  epitrite  ;  as, 

"  Venusta  puel  |  la,  tarda  yenis  |  ad  hortum, 
Parata  lyra  est,  |  paratus  odor  |  rosarum." 


THE    POEM    OF   AMRU. 

|OLLA ! — ^Awake,  sweet  damsel^  and  bring 
our  morning  draught  in  thy  capacious 
goblet;  nor  suffer  the  rich  wines  of 
Enderein  to  be  longer  hoarded  : 

2.  Bring  the  well-tempered  wine,  that  seems  to  be 
tinctured  with  saf&on,  and,  when  it  is  diluted  with 
water,  overflows  the  cup. 

3.  This  is  the  liquor  which  diverts  the  anxious 
lover  from  his  passion ;  and,  as  soon  as  he  tastes  it, 
he  is  perfectly  composed  : 

4.  Hence  thou  seest  the  penurious  churl,  when 
the  circling  bowl  passes  him,  grow  regardless  of  his 
pelf: 

5.*  When  its  potent  flames  have  seized  the  dis- 
creetest  of  our  youths,  thou  wouldst  imagine  him  to  be 
in  a  frenzy. 

6.  Thou  tumest  the  goblet  frx)m  us,  O  mother  of 
Amni ;  for  the  true  course  of  the  goblet  is  to  the 
right  hand : 

7.  He  is  not  the  least  amiable  of  thy  three  com- 
panions, O  mother  of  Amru,  to  whom  thou  hast  not 
presented  the  morning  bowl. 

8.*  How  many  a  cup  have  I  purchased  in  Balbec  1 
how  many  more  in  Damascus  and  Kasirein  ! 

9.  Surely  our  allotted  hour  of  fate  will  overtake  us ; 
since  we  are  destined  to  death,  and  death  to  u& 


68  THE  MOALLAKAT. 


10.  O  Stay  a  while,  before  we  separate,  thou  lovely 
rider  on  camels,  that  we  may  relate  to  thee  our  sor- 
rows, and  thou  to  us  thy  delights  1 

11.  O  stay! — that  we  may  inquire  whether  thou 
hast  altered  thy  purpose  of  departing  hastily,  or 
whether  thou  hast  wholly  deceived  thy  too  confi- 
dent lover: 

12.  In  the  hateful  day  of  battle,  whilst  he  struggles 
amid  wounds  and  blows,  may  the  Ruler  of  the  world 
refresh  thy  sight  with  coolness,  and  gratify  it  with 
every  desired  object ! 

13.  O  Amru,  when  thou  visitest  thy  fair  one  in 
secret,  and  when  the  eyes  of  lurking  enemies  are 
closed  in  rest, 

14.  She  displays  two  lovely  arms,  fair  and  full  as 
the  limbs  of  a  long-necked  snow-white  young  camel, 
that  frisks  in  the  vernal  season  over  the  sand-banks 
and  green  hillocks ; 

15.  And  two  sweet  breasts,  smooth  and  white  as 
vessels  of  ivory,  modestly  defended  from  the  hand  of 
those  who  presume  to  touch  them  : 

16.  She  discovers  her  slender  shape,  tall  and  well 
proportioned,  and  her  sides  gracefully  rising  with  all 
their  attendant  charms ; 

17.*  Her  hips  elegantly  swelling,  which  the  en- 
trance of  the  tent  is  scarce  large  enough  to  admit, 
and  her  waist,  the  beauty  of  which  drives  me  to 
madness  ; 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRU.  69 

1 8.*  With  two  channing  columns  of  jasper  or 
polished  marble,  on  which  hang  rings  and  trinkets 
making  a  stridulous  sound. 

19.  My  youthful  passion  is  rekindled,  and  my 
ardent  desire  revives,  when  I  see  the  travelling  camels 
of  my  fair  one  driven  along  in  the  evening ; 

20.  When  the  towns  of  Yemama  appear  in  sight, 
exalted  above  the  plains,  and  shining  like  bright 
sabres  in  the  hands  of  those  who  have  unsheathed 
them. 

21.  When  she  departs^  the  grief  of  a  she-camel  who 
seeks  her  lost  foal,  and  returns  despairing  with  piercing 
cries,  equals  not  my  anguish ; 

22.  Nor  that  of  a  widow,  with  snowy  locks,  whose 
mourning  never  ceases  for  her  nine  children,  of  whom 
nothing  remains,  but  what  the  tomb  has  concealed. 

23.  Such  is  our  fate!  This  day  and  the  morrow, 
and  the  morning  after  them,  are  pledges  in  the  hand 
of  destiny  for  events  of  which  we  have  no  knowledge. 

24.  O  son  of  Hinda,  be  not  precipitate  in  giving 
judgment  against  us :  hear  us  with  patience,  and  we 
will  give  thee  certain  information ; — 

25.  That  we  lead  our  standards  to  battle,  like 
camels  to  the  pool,  of  a  white  hue,  and  bring  them 
back  stained  with  blood,  in  which  they  have  quenched 
their  thirst  j 

26.  That  our  days  of  prosperity,  in  which  we  have 
refused  to  obey  the  commands  of  kings,  have  been 
long  and  brilliant. 


THE  MOALLAKAT. 


ay.  Many  a  diief  of  his  natkm,  on  whom  the  r^al 
diadem  has  been  placed,  the  lefiige  <^  those  who 
implored  his  protection^ 

2S.  Have  we  left  prostrate  on  the  field,  while  his 
horses  waited  by  his  side,  with  one  of  their  hoofe  bent, 
and  with  bridles  richly  adomedL 

29.*  Often  have  we  fixed  our  mansions  in  Dhu 
Tliahih.  towards  the  districts  of  Syria,  and  have  kept 
at  a  distance  those  who  menaced  us. 

3a  We  wart  so  disguised  in  <mr  armour^  that  the 
dogs  of  the  tribe  snaried  at  us ;  yet  we  stripped  the 
blanches  from  every  dioroy  Met  (eoery  etrmed  warrior) 
that  opposed  us. 

31.  When  we  roll  the  millstone  of  war  over  a  litde 
dan,  they  are  ground  to  flour  in  the  first  batde ; 

32.  From  the  eastern  side  of  Najd  the  doth  of  the 
mill  is  spread,  and  whatever  we  cast  into  it  soon 
becomes  impalpable  powder. 

33«  Yoa  alight  on  our  hills  as  guests  are  received 
in  their  station,  and  we  hasten  to  give  you  a  warm 
reception,  lest  you  should  complain  of  our  backward- 


34.  We  invite  you  to  our  board,  and  speedily 
prepare  for  your  entertainment  a  solid  rock,  miiich, 
before  daybreak,  shall  reduce  you  to  dust 

35.  Surely  hatred  after  hatred  is  manifested  by 
thee,  O  hostile  ckirfl  and  thy  secret  rancour  has  been 
revealed : 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRU.  71 

36.  But  we  have  inherited  glory,  as  the  race  of 
Maad  well  knows;  we  have  fought  with  valour  till 
our  fame  has  been  illustrious. 

37.  When  the  falling  pillars  of  our  tents  quiver 
over  our  furniture,  we  defend  our  neighbours  from 
the  impending  ruin. 

38.  We  disperse  our  gifts  to  our  coimtrymen,  but 
disdain  to  share  their  spoils ;  and  the  burdens  which 
we  bear  we  support  for  their  advantage. 

39.  When  the  troops  of  the  foe  are  at  a  distance 
from  us,  we  dart  our  javelins ;  and  when  we  close  in 
the  combat,  we  strike  with  sharp  sabres ; — 

40.  Our  dark  javelins,  exquisitely  wrought  of  Kha- 
thaian  reeds,  slender  and  delicate ;  our  sabres,  bright 
and  piercing : 

41.  With  these  we  cleave  in  pieces  the  heads  of 
our  enemies ;  we  mow — we  cut  down  their  necks  as 
with  sickles : 

42.  Then  might  you  imagine  the  skulls  of  heroes 
on  the  plain  to  be  the  bales  of  a  camel  thrown  on 
rocky  groimd. 

43.  Instead  of  submitting  to  them,  we  crush  their 
heads ;  and  their  terror  is  such,  that  they  know  not  on 
which  side  the  danger  is  to  be  feared. 

44.  Our  scimitars,  whose  strokes  are  fruiously  in- 
terchanged, are  as  little  regarded  by  us  as  twisted 
sashes  in  the  hands  of  playful  children. 


72  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

45.  Their  armour  and  ours,  stained  reciprocally 
with  our  blood,  seems  to  be  dyed  or  painted  with  the 
juice  of  the  crimson  S3rringa-flower. 

46.  At  a  time  when  the  tribe  is  reluctant  to  charge 
the  foe,  apprehensive  of  some  probable  disaster, 

47.  Then  we  lead  on  our  troop,  like  a  mountain 
with  a  pointed  summit ;  we  preserve  our  reputation, 
and  advance  in  the  foremost  ranks, 

48.  With  youths,  who  consider  death  as  the  com- 
pletion of  glory,  and  with  aged  heroes  experienced  in 
war : 

49.  We  challenge  all  the  clans  together  to  contend 
with  us,  and  we  boldly  preclude  their  sons  from  ap- 
proaching the  mansion  of  our  children. 

50.  On  the  day  when  we  are  anxious  to  protect 
our  families,  we  keep  vigilant  guard,  clad  in  complete 
steel ; 

51.  But  on  the  day  when  we  have  no  such  anxiety 
for  them,  our  legions  assemble  in  full  council 

52.  I^d  by  a  chief  among  the  descendants  of 
Josham  the  son  of  Beer,  we  bruise  our  adversaries, 
both  the  weak  and  the  strong. 

53.*  Oh,  the  nations  remember  not  the  time 
when  we  bowed  the  neck,  or  ever  flagged  in  the 
conflict ! 

54.  Oh,  lej  no  people  be  infatuated  and  vio- 
lent against  us;  for  we  will  requite  their  infatuation^ 
wliich  surpasses  the  folly  of  the  most  foolish ! 


THE  POEM  OF  A  MRU.  73 


55.  On  what  pretence,  O  Amru,  son  of  Hinda, 
should  we  be  subject  to  the  sovereign  whom  thou 
wouldst  place  over  us  ? 

56.  By  what  pretence,  O  Amru,  son  of  Hinda, 
dost  thou  jrield  to  our  calumniators,  and  treat  us 
with  indignity? 

57.  Thou  hast  menaced  us:  thou  hast  thought 
to  intimidate  us ;  but,  gently,  O  King  I — say,  when 
were  we  ever  the  vassals  of  thy  mother? 

58.  Our  javelins,  O  Amru,  disdain  to  relax  their 
vehemence  before  thee  in  assailing  our  foes: 

59.  Whenever  a  man  uses  force  to  bend  them, 
they  start  back,  and  become  inflexibly  rigid, — 

60.  So  rigid,  that  when  they  return  to  their  former 
state,  they  ring  with  a  shrill  noise,  piercing  the  neck 
and  forehead  of  him  who  touches  them. 

61.  Hast  thou  ever  been  informed  that  Josham 
the  son  of  Beer,  in  battles  anciently  fought,  was  at  any 
time  remiss  ? 

62.  We  have  inherited  the  renown  of  Alkama  the 
son  of  Saif,  who  by  dint  of  valour  obtained  admission 
for  us  into  the  castles  of  glory. 

63.  We  are  heirs  to  Mohalhil,  and  to  Zoheir,  the 
flower  of  his  tribe :  O  of  how  noble  a  treasiu*e  were 
they  the  preservers  ! 

64.  From  Attab  also  and  from  Celthum  we  have 
received  the  inheritance  transmitted  from  their  pro- 
genitors. 


74  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

65.  By  Dhu'lborra,  of  whose  &me  thou  hast  heard 
the  report,  have  we  been  protected  \  and  through  him 
we  protect  those  who  seek  our  aid. 

66.  Before  him  the  adventurous  Coleib  sprung 
from  us :  and  what  species  of  glory  is  there  which 
we  have  not  attained? 

67.  When  our  antagonists  twist  against  us  the 
cords  of  battle^  either  we  burst  the  knot  or  rend  the 
necks  of  our  opponents. 

68.  We  shall  be  found  the  firmest  of  tribes  in 
keeping  our  defensive  alliance,  and  the  most  ^th- 
ful  in  observing  the  bond  of  our  treaties. 

69.  When  the  flames  were  kindled  in  the  moun- 
tain, on  the  morning  of  an  excursion,  we  gave  succour 
more  important  than  the  aid  of  other  allies. 

70.  To  give  immediate  relief^  we  kept  all  our  herds 
confined  in  Dhu  Orathei,  until  our  milch-camels  of  a 
noble  breed  were  forced  to  graze  on  withered  herbs. 

71.  We  protect  with  generosity  the  man  who  sub- 
mits to  us ;  but  chastise  with  firmness  him  by  whom 
we  are  insulted. 

72.  We  reject  the  offers  of  those  who  have  dis- 
pleased us;  but  accept  the  presents  of  those  with 
whom  we  are  satisfied. 

73.  We  succoured  the  right  wing,  when  our  troops 
engaged  in  combat,  and  our  valiant  brothers  gave 
support  to  the  left. 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRU.  75 

74.  They  made  a  fierce  attack  against  the  legions 
which  opposed  them,  and  we  not  less  fiercely  assailed 
the  squadrons  by  which  we  were  opposed. 

75.  They  returned  with  booty  and  with  rich  spoils, 
and  the  sons  of  kings  were  among  our  captives. 

76.  To  you,  O  descendants  of  Beer,  to  you  we 
address  ourselves  \ — have  you  not  yet  learned  the  truth 
concerning  us? 

77.  Have  you  not  experienced  with  what  impetu- 
osity our  troops  have  attacked  your  troops,  and  with 
what  force  they  have  darted  their  javelins  ? 

78.  We  are  armed  with  bright  sabres,  and  clad  in 
habergeons  made  in  Yemen ;  our  scimitars  are  part 
straight,  part  bent 

79.  We  have  coats  of  mail  that  glitter  like  light- 
ning ;  the  plaits  of  which  are  seen  in  wrinkles  above 
our  belts : 

80.  When  at  any  time  our  heroes  put  them  off, 
you  may  see  their  skin  blackened  with  the  pressure 
of  the  steel. 

81.  The  plaits  of  our  hauberks  resemble  the  sur- 
face of  a  pool  which  the  winds  have  ruffled  in  their 
course. 

82.  On  the  morning  of  attack,  we  are  borne 
into  the  field  on  short-haired  steeds,  which  have  been 
known  to  us  firom  the  time  when  we  weaned  them, 
and  which  we  rescued  from  our  foes  after  they  had 
been  taken. 


76  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

83.*  They  rush  to  the  fight,  armed  with  breast- 
plates of  steel ;  they  leave  it  with  their  manes  dishe- 
velled and  dusty,  and  the  reins,  tied  in  knots,  lie  on 
their  necks. 

84.  We  inherited  this  excellent  breed  firom  our 
virtuous  ancestors;  and  on  our  death  they  will  be 
inherited  by  our  sons. 

85.  All  the  tribes  of  Maad  perfectly  know,  when 
their  tents  are  pitched  in  the  well-watered  valleys, 

86.  That  we  support  the  distressed  in  every 
barren  year,  and  are  bountifiil  to  such  as  solicit 
our  bounty; 

87.*  That  we  defend  the  oppressed,  when  we 
think  it  just ;  and  fix  our  abode  in  Arabia,  where  we 
find  it  convenient; 

%Z.  That  we  give  succour  to  those  that  are  near 
us,  when  the  bright  scimitars  make  the  eyes  of  our 
heroes  wink. 

89.  We  entertain  strangers  at  oiu:  board  whenever 
we  are  able ;  but  we  hurl  destruction  on  those  who 
approach  us  hostilely. 

90.  We  are  the  tribe  who  drink  water  firom  the 
clearest  brooks ;  whilst  other  clans  are  forced  to 
drink  it  foul  and  muddy. 

91.  Go,  ask  the  sons  of  Tamah  and  of  Domia, 
how  they  have  found  us  in  the  conflict ! 

92.  Behind  us  come  our  lovely,  our  charming  dam- 
sels, whom  we  guard  so  vigilantly  that  they  cannot 
be  made  captive,  or  even  treated  with  disrespect : 


THE  POEM  OF  AMRU.  77 

93.  Fair  maidens,  descended  from  Josham,  the  son 
of  Beer,  who  comprise  every  species  of  beauty,  both 
in  the  opinion  of  men  and  in  truth. 

94.  They  have  exacted  a  promise  from  their 
husbands,  that,  when  they  engaged  with  the  hostile 
legions,  distinguished  by  marks  of  valour, 

95.  They  would  bring  back,  as  spoils,  coats  of 
mail  and  scimitars,  and  captives  led  chained  in  pairs. 

96.*  Thou  mayst  behold  us  sallying  forth  into 
the  open  plain,  whilst  every  other  tribe  seeks  auxil- 
iaries through  fear  of  our  prowess. 

97.  When  our  damsels  are  on  foot,  they  walk 
with  graceful  motions,  and  wave  their  bodies  like 
those  of  libertines  heated  with  wine. 

98.  They  feed  with  their  fair  hands  our  coursers 
of  noble  birth,  and  say  to  us :  "  You  are  no  husbands 
of  ours,  unless  you  protect  us  from  the  foe." 

99.  Yes,  if  we  defend  not  them,  we  retain  no 
possessions  of  value  after  their  loss,  nor  do  we  think 
even  life  desirable : 

100.  But  nothing  can  afiford  our  sweet  maids  so 
sure  a  protection  as  the  strokes  of  oiu:  sabres,  which 
make  men's  arms  fly  off  like  the  clashing  wands  of 
playful  boys. 

1 01.*  We  seem,  when  our  drawn  scimitars  are  dis- 
played, to  protect  mankind,  as  fathers  protect  their 
children. 


78  THE  MOALLAKAT, 

1 02.*  Our  heroes  roll  the  heads  of  their  enemies, 
as  the  strong  well-made  youths  roll  their  balls  in  the 
smooth  vale. 

103.  This  world  is  ours,  and  all  that  appears  on 
the  face  of  it ;  and  when  we  do  attack,  we  attack 
with  irresistible  force. 

104.  When  a  tyrant  oppresses  and  insults  a  nation, 
we  disdain  to  degrade  ourselves  by  submitting  to  his 
will. 

105.  We  have  been  called  injurious,  although  we 
have  injured  no  man  ;  but  if  they  persist  in  calumnia- 
ting us,  we  will  show  the  vehemence  of  our  anger. 

106.  As  soon  as  a  child  of  our  tribe  is  weaned 
from  his  mother,  the  loftiest  chiefs  of  other  clans  bend 
the  knee  and  pay  him  homage. 

107.*  We  force  oiu:  enemies  to  taste  the  unmixed 
draught  of  death ;  and  heavy  is  the  overthrow  of  our 
adversaries  in  battle. 

108.  We  fill  the  earth  with  oiu:  tents,  until  it  be- 
comes too  narrow  to  contain  them  \  and  cover  the 
surface  of  the  ocean  with  our  ships. 


TH  E 


POEM 


OP 


H  ARETH. 


-•♦- 


THE    ARGUMENT. 


WHEN  Amni  had  finished  his  extravagant  pan^^ric 
on  the  tribe  of  Tagleb,  and  had  received  the  loud 
applause  of  his  own  party,  Hareth  arose,  and  pro- 
nounced the  following  poem,  or  speech  in  verse ;  which  he 
delivered,  according  to  some  authors,  without  any  meditation, 
but  which,  as  others  assert,  with  greater  appearance  of  proba- 
bility, he  had  prepared  and  gotten  by  heart 

Although,  if  we  believe  Asmai,  the  poet  was  considerably 
above  a  hundred  years  old  at  this  time,  yet  he  is  said  to  have 
poured  forth  his  couplets  with  such  boiling  ardour,  that,  without 
perceiving  it,  "he  cut  his  hand  with  the  string  of  his  bow,  on 
which,"  after  the  manner  of  the  Arabian  orators,  "he  leaned 
while  he  was  speaking." 


8o  THE  MOALLAKAT. 


Whatever  was  his  age,  the  wisdom  and  art  of  his  composition 
are  finely  contrasted  with  the  youthful  imprudence  of  his  adver- 
sary, who  must  have  exasperated  the  King,  instead  of  conciliating 
his  good  will,  and  seems  even  to  have  menaced  the  very  man 
from  whom  he  was  asking  a  favourable  judgment     Hareth,  on 
the  contrary,  begins  with  complimenting  the  Queen,  whose  name 
was  Asoma,  and  who  heard  him  behind  the  tapestry :  he  appears 
to  have  introduced  another  of  his  favourites,  Hinda,  merely  be- 
cause that  was  the  name  of  the  king's  mother ;  and  he  celebrates 
the  monarch  himself,  as  a  model  of  justice,  valour,  and  mag- 
nanimity.   The  description  of  his  camel,  which  be  interweaves 
according  to  custom,  is  very  short ;  and  he  opens  the  defence 
of  his  tribe  with  coolness  and  moderation  ;  but  as  he  proceeds 
his  indignation  seems  to  be  kindled,  and  the  rest  of  his  harangue 
consists  of  sharp  expostulations  and  bitter  sarcasms,  not  without 
much  soimd  reasoning,  and  a  number  of  allusions  to  facts,  which 
cannot  but  be  imperfectly  known  to  us,  though  they  must  hav<. 
been  fresh  in  the  memory  of  his  hearers. 

The  general  scope  of  his  argument  is  that  no  blame  was  justly 
imputable  to  the  sons  of  Beer  for  the  many  calamities  which  the 
Taglebites  had  endured,  and  which  had  been  principally.occa- 
sioncd  by  their  own  supineness  and  indiscretion. 

The  oration,  or  poem,  or  whatever  it  may  be  denominated, 
had  its  full  effect  on  the  mind  of  the  royal  umpire,  who  decided 
the  cause  in  favour  of  the  Becrites,  and  lost  his  life  for  a  decision 
apparently  just  He  must  have  remarked  the  fiery  spirit  of  the 
poet  Amru,  from  the  style  of  his  eloquence,  as  Caesar  first 
discovered  the  impetuous  vehemence  of  Brutus*  temper  from 
his  speech  delivered  at  Nice,  in  favour  of  King  Deiotarus  :  but 
neither  the  Arabian  nor  the  Roman  tyrant  were  sufficiently  on 
their  guard  against  men  whom  they  had  irritated  even  ^to 
fury. 


THE  POEM  OF  HARETH.  8i 

This  poem  is  composed  in  light  verse,  or  metre  of  the  eleventh 
class,  consisting  of  epitrites,  ionic  feet,  and  paeons,  variously 
intermixed,  as  in  this  form : 

"  Amarylli,  |  dulci  \jA  \  modulare 
MoUe  carmen  |  sub  arbore  |  fusa  sacHL'* 

Sometimes  a  molossus  ends  the  distich,  as  : 

"  Dulce  carmen  |  sub  arbore  |  fusa  sacrd 
Modulare,  |  dum  sylvulse  |  respondent." 

The  close  of  a  couplet  in  this  measure  has  often  the  cadence  of 
a  Latin  or  Greek  hexameter  ;  thus,  v.  20 : 

Tis'-h&li  khailin  khiliia  dhdca  rogdo — 
that  is,  literally, 

Hinnitds  modulantur  equi,  fremitiisque  cameli. 


THE   POEM    OF    HARETH. 

OTH  fair  Asoma  give  us  notice  of  her 
departure?  Oh,  why  are  sojourners  so 
frequently  weary  of  their  sojourning  ? 

2.  She  is  resolved  to  departy  after  our  mutual  vows 
among  the  sandy  hillocks  of  Shamma,  and  in  the 
nearer  station  of  Khalsa; — 

3.  VowSy  repeated  in  Mohayat,  Sifah,  and  Aglai, 
in  Dhu  Fitak,  Adhib,  and  Wafa ; — 

4.  VowSy  renewed  in  the  bowers  of  Katha,  and  the 
dales  of  Shoreib,  in  the  Two  Valle)rs,  and  in  the  plains 
of  Ayla. 

5.  I  see  no  remains  of  the  troth  which  she  plighted 
in  those  stations  \  and  I  waste  the  day  in  tears,  frantic 
with  grief;  but  oh,  what  part  of  my  happiness  will  teais 
restore  ? 

6.  Yet,  O  Hareth,  a  new  pension  invites  thee ;  for 
Hinda  is  before  thy  eyes,  and  the  fire  which  she 
kindles  at  night  in  the  hills  will  direct  thee  to  her 
abode: 

7.  She  kindles  it  with  abundance  of  wood  between 
the  hilly  stations  of  Akeik  and  Shakhsein,  and  it  blazes 
like  the  splendour  of  the  sun. 


THE  POEM  OF  HARETH,  83 

8.  I  have  been  contemplating  her  fire  from  a  dis- 
tance on  the  hill  whence  our  excursions  are  made; 
but  oh,  the  scorching  heat  and  the  calamities  of  war 
prevent  me  from  approaching  her  I 

9.  But  I  seek  assistance  in  dispelling  my  care, 
when  the  sojourner  of  the  tent  hastily  leaves  his  abode 
through  fear  of  same  impending  calamity y 

10.  On  a  camel,  swift  as  an  ostrich,  the  mother 
of  many  young  ones ;  the  long-necked  inhabitant  of 
the  desert, 

11.  Who  hears  a  sofr  sound,  and  dreads  the 
approach  of  the  hunter,  in  the  afternoon,  just  before 
the  dusk  of  evening : 

12.  Then  mayst  thou  see  behind  her,  from  the 
quick  motion  of  her  legs,  and  the  force  with  which 
she  strikes  the  earth,  a  cloud  of  dust,  thin  as  the 
gossamer, 

13.  And  the  traces  of  her  hoofs,  which  are  such  as 
to  be  S009  effaced  by  the  winds  blowing  over  the 
sandy  plain. 

14.  With  her  I  disport  myself  in  the  sultry  noon, 
whilst  every  son  of  valour  is  like  a  blind  camel  de- 
voted to  death. 

15.  Yet  misfortunes  and  evil  tidings  have  brought 
on  us  affairs  which  give  us  affliction  and  anguish ; 

J  6.  For  our  brethren,  the  family  of  Arakem,  the 
dragon-eyed^  have  transgressed  the  bounds  of  justice 
against  us,  and  have  been  vehement  in  their  invec- 
tives: 


THE  MOALLAKAT, 


17.  They  have  confounded  the  blameless  among 
us  with  the  guilty,  and  the  most  perfect  innocence  has 
not  escaped  their  censure. 

18.  They  have  insisted  that  all  who  pitch  their 
tents  in  the  desert  are  our  associates,  and  that  we  are 
involved  in  their  offences. 

19.  They  assembled  their  forces  at  night,  and  as 
soon  as  the  dawn  appeared,  there  was  nothing  heard 
among  them  but  a  tumultuous  noise 

20.  Of  those  who  called  and  those  who  answered ; 
the  neighing  of  horses,  and,  among  the  rest,  the  lowing 
of  camels. 

21.  O  thou,  who  adomest  thy  flowery  speeches 
concerning  us  before  Amru,  can  this  falsehood  be 
long  undetected? 

22.  Imagine  not  that  thy  instigation  will  animate 
him  against  us,  or  humiliate  us ;  since  long  before  thee 
our  enemies  have  openly  calumniated  us ; 

23.  Yet  we  continued  advancing  ourselves  in  de- 
fiance of  their  hale,  with  laudable  self-sufficiency  and 
exalted  reputation. 

24.  Before  this  day,  the  eyes  of  nations  have  been 
dazzled  by  our  glory,  and  have  been  moved  by 
envious  indignation  and  obstinate  resentment 

25.  Fortune  seemed  to  raise  for  us  a  dark  rock, 
with  a  pointed  summit,  dispelling  the  clouds ; 

26.  Thick  and  firm,  secured  from  calamity;  not  to 
be  weakened  by  any  di&aster,  however  grievous  and 
violent. 


THE  POEM  OF  HARETH,  85 


27.*  Intrust  to  our  wisdom  every  momentous 
affair  from  which  you  desire  to  be  extricated,  and 
by  which  the  assemblies  of  chiefs  are  made  unhappy. 

28.*  If  you  incjuire  concerning  our  wars  between 
Milaha  and  Dhakib,  you  will  find  on  their  plains 
many  an  unavenged  and  many  an  avenged  corse: 

29.*  Or,  if  you  examine  diligently  the  questions 
in  which  all  tribes  are  deeply  interested,  you  will 
see  the  difference  between  your  offences  and  our 
innocence. 

30.*  But  if  you  decline  this  fair  discussion^  we 
shall  turn  from  you  with  resentment,  concealing 
hatred  in  our  bosoms,  as  the  mote  is  concealed  in 
the  closed  eyelids. 

31.*  Reject,  if  you  please,  the  terms  which  we 
offer;  but  of  whom  have  you  heard  that  surpasses 
us  in  glory? 

32.*  You  have  perfectly  known  us  on  the  days 
when  the  warriors  have  assailed  one  another  with 
rapacious  violence,  when  every  tribe  has  raised  a 
tumultuous  din ; 

33.*  When  we  brought  up  our  camels  from  the 
palm-groves  of  Bahrein,  and  drove  them  by  rapid 
marches,  till  we  reached  the  plain  of  Hisa. 

34.  Then  we  advanced  against  the  sons  of 
Tameim,  and  when  the  sacred  month  required  a 
cessation  of  our  war,  we  carried  away  the  daughters 
of  their  tribe  for  our  handmaids. 


86  THE  MOALLAKAT. 


35.  In  opposition  to  us,  neither  could  the  valiant 
man  keep  his  ground  on  the  level  field,  nor  did  pre- 
cipitate  flight  avail  the  faint-hearted. 

36.  No;  the  coward,  who  ran  hastily  from  the 
plain,  was  not  saved  by  the  summit  of  rocks  or  the 
roughness  of  craggy  paths. 

37.  By  these  exertions  we  maintained  our  pre- 
eminence over  the  tribes,  until  Mondir,  son  of  the 
beautiful  Maisema,  obtained  the  dominion. 

38.  He  was  a  prince  who  bore  witness  to  our 
valour  on  the  day  of  Hayarain,  when  the  calamity 
of  war  was,  in  truth,  a  calamity : 

39.  A  prince  who  subjected  nations ;  whose  equal 
in  magnanimity  could  not  be  found  among  them. 

40.  Desist  then  from  vaunting  and  from  hostility : 
you  have  indeed  pretended  ignorance  of  our  claims,- 
but  from  that  pretended  ignorance  will  proceed  your 
woe. 

41.  Remember  well  the  oaths  taken  in  Dhu'l- 
mejaaz :  the  covenants  and  vows  of  amity,  which 
were  made  there  of  old. 

42.  Beware  of  injustice  and  violence ;  nor  let  your 
intemperate  passions  impel  you  to  violate  your  con- 
tracts written  on  tablets. 

43.  Know,  that  we  and  you,  on  the  day  when 
we  made  our  treaty,  were  equally  bound  by  our 
respective  engagements. 


THE  POEM  OF  HARETH.  ^ 

44.  Are  we  responsible  for  the  crimes  of  Canda  ? 
Shall  their  conquering  chief  have  the  spoils,  and  shall 
reprisals  be  made  upon  us  ? 

45.  Are  we  responsible  for  the  excesses  of  Haneifa, 
and  for  all  the  conflicts  which  the  dusty  plain  has 
seen  accumulated  ? 

46.  Must  we  answer  for  the  offences  of  the  sons 
of  Ateik  ?  No :  whoever  has  broken  his  covenant, 
we  are  innocent  of  their  war. 

47.  Doth  the  guilt  of  Ibaad  hang  on  our  heads, 
as  the  burden  is  suspended  on  the  centre  of  the 
camel's  girths? 

48.  Has  the  blame  due  to  Kodhaa  &llen  upon 
us  ?  or,  rather,  are  we  not  secure  from  a  single  drop 
of  their  faults  ? 

49.  Are  we  responsible  for  the  crimes  of  lyaad, 
as  it  was  said  to  the  tribe  of  Thasm,  "  Your  brethren 
are  rebels  ?  " 

50.  Those  who  raised  the  dissension  belong  not 
to  us,  neither  Kais,  nor  Jondal,  nor  Hadda. 

51.  Vain  pretexts  !  Unjust  aspersions  !  That  we 
should  suffer  for  others,  as  the  roe  is  sacrificed  in  the 
place  of  the  sheep  1 

52.  Fourscore  warriors,  indeed,  advanced  from 
Tameim,  and  their  hands  carried  lances,  whose  points 
were  Fate ; 

53.  Yet  they  profaned  not  the  hallowed  places  of 
the  sons  of  Rizaah  on  the  hills  of  Nitaa,  when  they 
called  on  them  for  mercy. 


S8  THE  MOALLAKAT. 


54.  They  left  them,  however,  wounded  on  the 
plain,  and  returned  with  captive  herds  and  flocks  so 
numerous,  that  the  drivers  of  them  were  deafened 
with  their  cries. 

55.  The  vanquished  tribe  came  afterwards  to  im- 
plore restitution,  but  not  a  single  beast,  either  black  or 
of  a  bright  hue,  was  restored  to  them. 

56.  So  they  retired  with  heart-breaking  afflictions, 
nor  could  any  stream  of  water  quench  their  ardent 
rage. 

57.  After  this  a  troop  of  horsemen,  led  by  the 
impetuous  Ghallaak,  assailed  them  without  remorse 
or  pity: 

58.  Full  many  a  son  of  Tagleb  has  been  smitten, 
whose  blood  has  flowed  unrevenged,  while  the  black 
dust  covered  his  corse. 

59.  Are  your  cares  comparable  to  those  of  our 
tribe,  when  Mondir  waged  war  against  them?  Are 
we,  like  youy  become  subject  to  the  son  of  Hinda  ? 

60.  When  he  fixed  his  abode  in  the  lofty  turrets  of 
Maisuna,  and  sojourned  in  the  nearer  stations  of 
Khaltha, 

61.  From  every  tribe  there  flocked  around  him  a 
company  of  robbers,  impetuous  as  eagles : 

62.  He  led  them  on,  and  supplied  them  with  dates 
and  with  water ;  so  the  will  of  God  was  accomplished, 
and  afflicted  men  doomed  to  affliction. 


THE  POEM  OF  HARETH. 


63.  Then  you  invited  them  to  attack  you  by  your 
want  of  circumspection ;  and  the  vain  security  of  your 
intemperate  joy  impelled  them  to  be  hostile. 

64.  They  surprised  you  not,  indeed,  by  a  sudden 
assault;  but  they  advanced^  and  the  sultry  vapour  of 
noon,  through  which  you  saw  them^  increased  their 
magnitude. 

65.  O  thou  inveterate  and  glozing  calumniator, 
who  inveighest  against  us  before  King  Amru,  will 
there  be  no  end  of  thy  unjust  invectives? 

66.  Between  Amru  and  us  many  acts  of  amity 
have  passed,  and  from  all  of  them,  no  doubt,  has 
benefit  arisen. 

67.  He  is  a  just  prince,  and  the  most  accom- 
plished that  walks  the  earth :  all  praise  is  below 
his  merit: 

68.  A  prince  descended  from  Irem  I  A  warrior 
like  him  ought  ever  to  be  encircled  with  troops  of 
genii,  for  he  protects  his  domain,  and  refuses  to 
punish  even  his  opponents: 

69.  A  monarch  who  knows  us  by  three  infallible 
signs,  by  each  of  which  our  excellence  is  decided  : — 

70.  The  first  tSj  the  conspicuous  token  of  our 
valour,  when  all  Arabia  came  forth  in  the  rocky  vales, 
each  tribe  of  Maad  under  their  banner, 

71.  And  assembled,  in  complete  armour,  round 
the  warlike  Kais,  that  valiant  prince  of  Yemen,  who 
stood  firm  and  brilliant  like  a  white  clifif. 


90  THE  MOALLAKAT, 

72.  Then  came  a  legion  of  high-bom  youths,  whom 
nothmg  could  restrain  but  our  long  and  glittering 
spears; 

73.  But  we  repelled  them  with  strokes,  whidi 
made  their  blood  gush  from  their  sides,  as  the  water 
streams  from  the  mouth  of  a  bottle  which  contains  it. 

74.  We  drove  them  for  refuge  to  the  cragg}' 
hills  of  Thahlaan ;  we  thrust  them  before  us,  till  the 
muscles  of  their  thighs  were  breeched  in  gore. 

75.  We  did  with  them  a  deed,  the  name  of  which 
God  only  knows ;  and  no  revenge  could  be  taken  for 
the  blood  of  men  who  sought  their  own  fate. 

76.  Next  advanced  Hojar,  son  of  Ommi  Kathaam, 
with  an  army  of  Persians,  clad  in  discoloured  brass : 

77.  A  lion  in  the  conflict,  of  a  ruddy  hue,  tramp- 
ling on  his  prey ;  but  a  vernal  season  of  beneficence 
in  every  barren  year. 

78.  Yet  we  smote  them  on  the  foreheads  with  the 
edges  of  our  scimitars,  which  quivered  in  their  flesh, 
like  buckets  drawn  from  a  deep  well  encircled  with 
stone. 

79.  Secondly^  we  broke  the  chains  of  Amriolkais, 
after  his  long  imprisonment  and  anguish. 

80.  We  forcibly  revenged  the  death  of  Mondir, 
king  of  Gassaan,  that  his  blood  might  not  flow 
in  vain. 

81.  We  redeemed  our  captives  with  nine  kings  of 
illustrious  race,  whose  spoils  were  exceedingly  precious. 


THE  POEM  OF  JTARETH.  91 

8z.  With  the  horses,  with  the  dark  horses  of  the 
sons  of  Aus,  came  whole  squadrons,  fierce  as  eagles 
with  crooked  beaks : 

83.  We  scarce  had  passed  through  the  cloud  of 
dust  when  they  turned  their  backs;  and  then  how 
dreadfully  blazed  the  fire  of  our  vengeance  ! 

84.  Lastly,  we  gave  birth  to  Amru,  the  son  of 
0mm  Ayaas ;  for  not  long  ago  were  the  bridal  gifb 
presented  to  us,  at  kinsmen. 

85.  May  our  faithful  admonition  reach  all  our 
kindred  tribes,  extended  as  wide  as  our  consanguinity, 
in  plains  beyond  plains ! 


SHORTER    PIECES 


OF 


ARAB  IAN     PO  ETRY 


TRANSLATED  INTO  ENGUSH  VERSE, 


By    J.    D.    CARLYLE,    B.D. 


As  the  following  translations  were  attempted  at  different 
times  and  with  different  impressions^  their  execution  is, 
no  doudty  very  uneqtuU :  in  general  they  will,  I  trust,  be 
found  as  literal  as  the  nature  of  two  languages,  so  little 
resembling  each  other  in  their  structure,  will  admit;  in 
some  few  instances  I  have  indulged  myself  in  a  greater 
latitude,  and  have  given  rather  an  imitation  than  a 
version; — in  such  a  manner,  however,  I  hope,  as  not  in 
any  place  to  have  lost  sig/it  of  the  original  idea  of  the 
writer. — From  the  Translator's  Preface. 


* 


Most  of  the  Translator's  interesting  Bii^raphical  Notices  of 
the  Authors  and  the  subjects  of  these  little  pieces  are,  with  some 
additional  Notes,  placed  in  the  Appendix  to  this  volume. — Ed. 


ON    THE 


TOMB    OF    MANO. 


By  Hassan  Alasady. 


FRIENDS  of  my  heart,  who  share  my  sighs  ! 
Go  seek  the  turf  where  Mano  lies, 
And  woo  the  dewy  clouds  of  Spring 
To  sweep  it  with  prolific  wing. 

Within  that  cell,  beneath  that  heap, 
Friendship  and  Truth  and  Honour  sleep. 
Beneficence,  that  used  to  clasp 
The  world  within  her  ample  grasp, 
There  rests  entombed — of  thought  bereft ; 
For  were  one  conscious  atom  left. 
New  bliss,  new  kindness  to  display, 
T  would  burst  the  grave,  and  seek  the  day. 

But  though  in  dust  thy  relics  lie, 
Thy  virtues,  Mano,  ne'er  shall  die  : 
Though  Nile's  full  stream  be  seen  no  more. 
That  spread  his  waves  from  shore  to  shore, 
Still  in  the  verdure  of  the  plain 
His  vivifying  smiles  remain. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


ON  THE 

TOMB    OF    SAYID. 

By  Abd    Almalec   Alharithy. 

BLEST  are  the  tenants  of  the  tomb  I 
With  envy  I  their  lot  survey ; 
For  Sayid  shares  the  solemn  gloom, 
And  mingles  with  their  mouldering  clay. 

Dear  youth  !     I'm  doomed  thy  loss  to  mourn, 
When  gathering  ills  around  combine  ; 

And  whither  now  shall  Malec  turn  ? 
Where  look  for  any  help  but  thine? 

At  this  dread  moment,  when  the  foe 
My  life  with  rage  insatiate  seeks, 

In  vain  I  strive  to  ward  the  blow — 
My  buckler  falls,  my  sabre  breaks. 

Upon  thy  grassy  tomb  I  knelt, 

And  sought  from  pain  a  short  relief: 

Th'  attempt  was  vain — I  only  felt 
In  tenser  pangs  and  livelier  grief. 

The  bud  of  woe,  no  more  represt, 

Fed  by  the  tears  that  drenched  it  there, 

Shot  forth  and  filled  my  labouring  breast, 
Soon  to  expand  and  shed  despair. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  97 


But  though  of  Sayid  I'm  bereft, 

From  whom  the  stream  of  bounty  came, 
Sayid  a  nobler  meed  has  left — 

Th'  exhaustless  heritage  of  fame. 

Though  mute  the  lips  on  which  I  hung, 
Their  silence  speaks  more  loud  to  me 

Than  any  voice  from  mortal  tongue : 
'*  What  Sayid  was,  let  Malec  be  ! " 


i; 


98  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


ON  THE 

DEATH    OF    HIS    MISTRESa 

By  Abu  Saher  Alhkdily. 

DOST  thou  wonder  that  I  flew 
Charmed  to  meet  my  Leila's  view? 
Dost  thou  wonder  that  I  hung 
Raptured  on  my  Leila's  tongue  ? — 
If  her  ghost's  funereal  screech 
Through  the  earth  my  grave  should  reach, 
On  that  voice  I  loved  so  well 
My  transported  ghost  would  dwell : 
If  in  death  I  can  descry 
Where  my  Leila's  relics  lie, 
Saber's  dust  will  flit  away, 
There  to  join  his  Leila's  clay. 


I 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  99 


ON    AVARICE. 
Bt  Hatem  Tai. 

HOW  frail  are  riches  and  their  joys ! 
Mom  builds  the  heap  which  eve  destroys; 
Yet  can  they  leave  one  sure  delight — 
The  thought  that  weVe  employed  them  right. 

What  bliss  can  wealth  afford  to  me, 
When  life's  last  solemn  hour  I  see  ? — 
When  Mavia's  sympathising  sighs 
Will  but  augment  my  agonies  ? 

Can  hoarded  gold  dispel  the  gloom 
That  death  must  shed  around  his  tomb  ? 
Or  cheer  the  ghost  which  hovers  there, 
And  fills  with  shrieks  the  desert  air  ? 

What  boots  it,  Mavia,  in  the  grave, 
Whether  I  loved  to  waste  or  save? 
The  hand  that  millions  now  can  grasp 
In  death  no  more  than  mine  shall  clasp. 

Were  I  ambitious  to  behold 
Increasing  stores  of  treasured  gold, 
Each  tribe  that  roves  the  desert  knows 
I  might  be  wealthy,  if  I  chose..:  ; 


lOO  ARABIAN  AXTHOLOGY. 


But  Other  joys  can  gold  impart ; 
Far  other  wishes  warm  my  heart ; — 
Ne'er  may  I  strive  to  swell  the  heap 
Till  want  and  woe  have  ceased  to  weep. 

With  brow  unaltered  I  can  see 
The  hour  of  wealth  or  poverty : 
I've  drunk  from  both  the  cups  of  Fate, 
Nor  this  could  sink,  nor  that  elate. 

With  fortune  blest,  I  ne  er  was  found 
To  look  with  scorn  on  those  around ; 
Nor  for  the  loss  of  paltry  ore, 
Shall  Hatem  seem  to  Hatem  poor. 


v-_§4i-of 


; 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  loi 


ON    THE    BATTLE    OF    SABLA. 
By  Jaafer  Ben  Alba. 

SABLA,  thou  saw'st  th'  exulting  foe 
In  fancied  triumphs  crowned ; 
Thou  heard*st  their  frantic  females  throw 
These  galling  taunts  around  : 

"  Make  now  your  choice — the  terms  we  give, 

Desponding  victims,  hear : 
These  fetters  on  your  hands  receive, 

Or  in  your  hearts  the  spear." 

"  And  is  the  conflict  o'er  ?  "  we  cried ; 

"  And  lie  we  at  your  feet  ? 
And  dare  you  vauntingly  decide 

The  fortune  we  must  meet  ? 

**  A  brighter  day  we  soon  shall  see. 
Though  now  the  prospect  lowers ; 

And  conquest,  peace,  and  liberty 
Shall  gild  our  future  hours." 

The  foe  advanced ; — in  firm  array 

We  rushed  o'er  Sabla's  sands ; 
And  the  red  sabre  marked  our  way 

Amidst  their  yielding  bands. 

Then,  as  they  writhed  in  Death's  cold  grasp, 
We  cried,  "  Our  choice  is  made  : 

These  hands  the  sabres'  hilt  shall  clasp, 
Your  hearts  shall  have  the  blade  ! " 


102  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


VERSES 

ADDRESSED  TO  A  KINDRED  TRIBE  AT  VARIANCE  WITH 
THE  ONE  TO  WHICH  THE  POET  BELONGED. 

By  Alfadhel  Ibn  Alabas. 

WHY  thus  to  passion  give  the  rein ? 
Why  seek  your  kindred  tribe  to  wrong? 
Why  strive  to  drag  to  light  again 
The  fatal  feud  entombed  so  long  ? 

Think  not,  if  fury  ye  display, 

But  equal  fury  we  can  deal ; 
Hope  not,  if  wronged,  but  we  repay 

Revenge  for  every  wrong  we  feel. 

Why  thus  to  passion  give  the  rein  ? 

Why  seek  the  robe  of  peace  to  tear  ? 
Rash  youths,  desist !  your  course  restrain  ; 

Or  dread  the  iKTath  ye  blindly  dare  ! 

Yet  friendship  we  nor  ask  from  foes, 
Nor  favour  hope  from  you  to  prove  : 

We  loved  you  not,  great  Allah  knows ! 
Nor  blamed  you  that  ye  could  not  love. 

To  each  are  different  feelings  given ; 

This  slights,  and  that  regards  his  brother : 
'Tis  ours  to  live — thanks  to  kind  Heaven — 

Hating  and  hated  by  each  other. 


\.-i 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  103 


ON    HIS    FRIENDS. 

By  Meskin  Aldaramy. 

WITH  conscious  pride  I  view  the  band 
Of  faithful  friends  that  round  me  stand ; 
With  pride  exult,  that  I  alone 
Can  join  these  scattered  gems  in  one : 
For  they're  a  wreath  of  pearls,  and  I 
The  silken  cord  on  which  they  lie. 

Tis  mine  their  inmost  souls  to  see ; 

Unlocked  is  every  heart  to  me ; 

To  me  they  cling,  on  me  they  rest, 

And  I've  a  place  in  every  breast : 

For  they're  a  wreath  of  pearls,  and  I 
The  silken  cord  on  which  they  lie. 


I04  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


ON   TEMPER. 
By   Nabegat   Beni   Jaid. 

YES,  Leila,  I  swore,  by  the  fire  of  thine  eyes, 
I  ne'er  could  a  sweetness  unvaried  endure  ; 
The  bubbles  of  spirit  that  sparkling  arise 
Forbid  life  to  stagnate,  and  render  it  pure. 

Hut  yet,  my  dear  maid,  though  thy  spirit's  my  pride, 
rd  wish  for  some  sweetness  to  temper  the  bowl : 

J  f  life  be  ne'er  suffered  to  rest  or  subside, 
Ft  may  not  be  flat,  but  I  fear  't  will  be  foul. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  105 


THE    SONG    OF    MAISUNA. 


[Maisuna  was  a  daughter  of  the  tribe  of  Calab;  a  tribe, 
according  to  Abulfeda,  remarkable  both  for  the  purity  of 
dialect  spoken  in  it  and  for  the  number  of  poets  it  had  produced. 
She  was  married,  whilst  very  young,  to  the  Khalif  Mowiah ; 
but  this  exalted  situation  by  no  means  suited  the  disposition  of 
Maisuna  ;  and,  amidst  all  the  pomp  and  splendour  of  Damascus, 
she  languished  for  the  simple  pleasures  of  her  native  desert. 

The^e  feelings  gave  birth  to  the  following  simple  stanzas, 
which  she  took  the  greatest  delight  in  singing,  whenever  she 
could  find  an  opportunity  to  indulge  her  melancholy  in  private. 
She  was  unfortunately  overheard  one  day  by  Mowiah,  who  was 
of  course  not  a  little  offended,  both  with  the  discovery  of  his  wife's 
sentiments,  and  with  the  contemptuous  manner  in  which  she  had 
expressed  herself  with  regard  to  her  husband  ;  and,  as  a  punish- 
ment for  her  fault,  he  ordered  her  to  retire  from  court.  Maisuna 
immediately  obeyed,  and,  taking  her  infant  son  Yezid  with  her, 
returned  to  Yemen  ;  nor  did  she  revisit  Damascus  till  after  the 
-tlenth  of  Mowiah,  when  Yezid  ascended  the  throne.] 

THE  nisset  suit  of  camel's  hair,    ^^^ 
With  spirits  light  and  eye  serene, 
Is  dearer  to  my  bosom  far 
Than  all  the  trappings  of  a  queen. 

The  humble  tent,  and  murmuring  breeze 
That  whistles  through  its  fluttering  walls, 

My  unaspiring  fancy  please, 

Better  than  towers  and  splendid  halls. 


io6  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 

Th'  attendant  colts,  that  bounding  fly 
And  frolic  by  the  litter's  side, 

Are  dearer  in  Maisuna's  eye 
Than  gorgeous  mules  in  all  their  pride. 

The  watch-dog's  voice,  that  bays  whene'er 
A  stranger  seeks  his  master's  cot, 

Sounds  sweeter  in  Maisuna's  ear 
Than  yonder  trumpet's  long-drawn  note. 

The  rustic  youth,  unspoiled  by  art. 
Son  of  my  kindred,  poor  but  free, 

Will  ever  to  Maisuna's  heart 

Be  dearer,  pampered  fool,  than  thee  ! 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  107 


VERSES 
OF    YEZID    to'   his    FATHER,     MOWIAH, 


WHO  REPROACHED   HIM   FOR  DRUNKENNESS. 

MUST  then  my  failings  from  the  shaft 
Of  anger  ne'er  escape  ? 
And  dost  thou  storm  because  Tve  quaffed 
The  water  of  the  grape  ? 

That  I  can  thus  from  wine  be  driven. 
Thou  surely  ne'er  canst  think — 

Another  reason  thou  hast  given 
Why  I  resolve  to  drink  : 

Twas  sweet  the  flowing  cup  to  seize, 

'Tis  sweet  thy  rage  to  see ; 
And,  first,  I  drink  myself  to  please, 

And,  next — to  anger  thee ! 


io8  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


ON     FATALISM. 
By  the  Imam  Shafay  Mohammed  Ben  Idus. 


NOT  always  wealth,  not  always  force, 
A  splendid  destiny  commands  ; 
The  lordly  vulture  gnaws  the  corse 
That  rots  upon  yon  barren  sands. 

Nor  want  nor  weakness  still  conspires 
To  bind  us  to  a  sordid  state ; 

The  fly,  that  with  a  touch  expires, 
Sips  honey  from  the  royal  plate. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  ioq 


TO   THE   KHALIF 

HAROUN     ALRASHID, 

ON    HIS    UNDERTAKING   A    PILGRIMAGE  TO   MECCA. 

By  Ibrahim  Ben  Adhem. 

RELIGION'S  gems  can  ne'er  adorn 
The  flimsy  robe  by  Pleasure  worn  : 
Its  feeble  texture  soon  would  tear, 
And  give  those  jewels  to  the  air. 

Thrice  happy  they  who  seek  th'  abode 
Of  peace  and  pleasure,  in  their  God  ! 
Who  spurn  the  world,  its  joys  despise, 
And  grasp  at  bliss  beyond  the  skies. 


A 


no  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


ON  THE 

INAUGURATION  OF  HAROUN   ALRASHID, 

AND   THE 

APPOINTMENT    OF    YAHIA 

TO  BE  HIS  VIZIER. 

By   Isaac   Almousely. 

TH'  affrighted  sun  erewhile  had  fled, 
And  hid  his  radiant  face  in  night  \ 
A  cheerless  gloom  the  world  o'erspread — 
But  Haroun  came,  and  all  was  bright 

Again  the  sun  shoots  forth  his  rays ; 

Nature  is  decked  in  beauty's  robe : 
For  mighty  Haroun's  sceptre  sways, 

And  Yahia's  arm  sustains  the  globe. 


AT 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  iii 


ON   THE 

RUIN     OF    THE    BARMECIDES. 

NO,  Barmec !  time  hath  never  shown 
So  sad  a  change  of  wayward  fate ; 
Nor  sorrowing  mortals  ever  known 
A  grief  so  true,  a  loss  so  great 

Spouse  of  the  world !  thy  soothing  breast 

Did  balm  to  every  woe  afford ; 
And  now,  no  more  by  thee  caressed, 

The  widowed  world  bewails  her  lord. 


1 1 2  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOG  K 


EPIGRAM 

ON 

TAKER    BEN     HOSEIN, 
WHO   WAS   AMBIDEXTER   AND   ONE-EYED. 

A  PAIR  of  right  hands  and  a  single  dim  eye 
Must  form  not  a  man,  but  a  monster,  they  cr>' 
Change  a  hand  to  an  eye,  good  Taher,  if  you  can, 
And  a  monster  perhaps  may  be  changed  to  man. 


X 


ARAB/AN  ANTHOLOGY,  113 


THE   ADIEU. 
By   Abu    Mohammed. 

THE  boatmen  shout,  "  'Tis  time  to  part, 
No  longer  we  can  stay ; " 
*Twas  then  Maimuna  taught  my  heart 
How  much  a  glance  could  say. 

With  trembling  steps  to  me  she  came  ; 

"  Farewell,"  she  would  have  cried. 
But  ere  her  lips  the  word  could  frame, 

In  half-formed  sounds  it  died. 

Then  bending  down,  with  looks  of  love. 

Her  arms  she  round  me  flung. 
And  as  the  gale  hangs  on  the  grove. 

Upon  my  breast  she  hung. 

My  willing  arms  embraced  the  maid. 

My  heart  with  raptures  beat ; 
While  she  but  "wept  the  more  and  said, 

"  Would  we  had  never  met !  '^ 


H 


/• 


114  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


VERSES 

ADDRESSED  TO  HIS  MISTRESS,  WHO  HAD  FOUND  FAULT 

WITH  HIM  FOR  PROFUSION. 

By  Abu  Teman  Habib. 

UNGENEROUS  and  mistaken  maid, 
To  scorn  me  thus  because  I'm  poor ! 
Canst  thou  a  liberal  hand  upbraid, 
For  dealing  round  some  worthless  ore  ? 

To  spare's  the  wish  of  little  souls ; 

The  great  but  gather  to  bestow : 
Yon  current  down  the  mountain  rolls, 

And  stagnates  in  the  swamp  below. 


^ 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOG  V.  1 1 


TO    A    FEMALE    CUPBEARER. 
By  Abd  Alsalam  Ben  Ragban. 

COME,  Leila,  fill  the  goblet  up— 
Reach  round  the  rosy  wine ; 
Think  not  that  we  will  take  the  cup 
From  any  hand  but  thine. 

A  draught  like  this  'twere  vain  to  seek, 

No  grape  can  such  supply : 
It  steals  its  tint  from  Leila's  cheek, 

Its  brightness  from  her  eye. 


li6  ARAB/AX  AXTHOLOGV. 


SONGS 

By  Mashdud,  Rakhek,  and  Rais, 

the  three  most  celekrated   improvisator!   poets   ix 

bagdad,  at  an  entertainment  gi\'en  by  abu  isy, 

son  of  the  khali f  motawakkel. 

The  preface  with  which  these  Poems  are  accompanied  in  ihc^ 
Mostairaf,  at  the  same  time  that  it  explains  the  cause  of  their 
composition,  gives  no  bad  picture  of  Arabian  manners  during 
the  flourishing  period  of  the  Khalifate  : — 

I  was  one  day  goin^  to  the  mosque  [says  Abu  Akramah,  an 
author  who  supjwrled  himself  at  Bagdad  by  the  profits  of  his 
jjcn],  in  order  to  see  if  I  could  pick  up  any  little  anecdote 
which  might  serve  for  the  ground-work  of  a  tale.  As  I  passed 
the  gate  of  Abu  Isy,  son  of  the  Khalif  Motawakkel,  I  saw 
Mashdud,  the  celebrated  extempore  poet,  standing  near  iL 

Mashdud  saluted  me,  and  asketl  whither  I  was  going.  I 
answered,  to  the  mosque,  and  confessed  without  reserve  the 
business  which  drew  me  thiiher.  The  ix>et,  upon  hearings 
this,  pressed  me  to  accompany  him  to  the  palace  of  Abu  Isy. 
I  declined,  however,  complying  with  his  solicitations  conscious 
of  the  impropriety  of  intrmling  myself  uninvited  into  the  pre- 
»!ence  of  a  person  of  such  rank  and  consequence.  But  Abu  Isy's 
j>f>rter,  overhearing  our  conversation,  declared  that  he  would 
put  an  end  to  my  difficulties  in  a  moment,  by  acquainting  hif% 
master  witli  my  arrival.  He  did  so ;  and  in  a  short  time  two 
servants  appeareil,  who  took  me  up  in  their  arms,  and  carried 
me  into  a  most  magnificent  apartment,  where  their  master  was 
.sitting. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  117 


Ul>on  my  introduction,  I  could  not  help  feeling  a  little 
confused,  but  the  Prince  soon  made  me  easy,  by  calling  out  in  a 
good-natured  manner,  "  Why  do  you  stand  blushing  there,  you 
simpleton  ?  Take  a  seat.'*  I  obeyed :  and  in  a  few  minutes  a 
sumptuous  collation  was  brought  in,  of  which  I  partook.  Nor 
was  the  juice  of  the  grape  forgotten :  a  cupbearer,  brilliant  as 
the  morning  star,  poured  out  wine  for  us,  more  sparkling  than 
the  beams  of  the  sun  reflected  by  a  mirror. 

After  the  entertainment  I  arose,  and  having  invoked  every 
blessing  to  be  showered  down  upon  the  head  of  my  bounteous 
host,  I  was  preparing  to  withdraw.  But  Abu  Isy  prevented  me, 
and  immediately  ordered  Mashdud,  together  with  Rakeek  and 
Rais,  two  musicians,  whose  fame  was  almost  equal  to  Mashdud's, 
to  be  called  in.  They  appeared  accordingly  and  having  taken 
their  places,  Mashdud  gave  us  the  following  satiric  song  : 


MASHDUD  ON  THE  MONKS   OF  KHABBET. 

TENANTS  of  yon  hallowed  fane  ! 
Let  me  your  devotions  share : 
There  unceasing  raptures  reign — 
None  are  ever  sober  there. 

Crowded  gardens,  festive  bowers, 
Ne'er  shall  claim  a  thought  of  mine  : 

You  can  give  in  Khabbet's  towers — 
Purer  joys  and  brighter  wine. 

Though  your  pallid  faces  prove 

How  you  nightly  vigils  keep, 
'Tis  but  that  you  ever  love — 

Flowing  goblets  more  than  sleep. 


ii8  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 

Though  your  eyeballs,  dim  and  sunk, 
Stream  in  penitential  guise, 

'Tis  but  that  the  wine  you've  dnmk 
Bubbles  over  from  your  eyes. 


He  had  no  sooner  finished  than  Rakeek  hegan,  and  in  tlie 
same  versification,  and  to  the  same  air,  sung  as  follows : 


RAKEEK  TO  HIS   FEMALE  COMPANIONS. 

THOUGH  the  peevish  tongues  upbraid, 
Though  the  brows  of  wisdom  scowl, 
Fair  ones,  here  on  roses  laid, 
Careless  will  we  quaff  the  bowl. 

I^et  the  cup,  with  nectar  crowned, 
Through  the  grove  its  beams  display ; 

It  can  shed  a  lustre  round. 
Brighter  than  the  torch  of  Day. 

Let  it  pass  from  hand  to  hand. 
Circling  still  with  ceaseless  flight, 

Till  the  streaks  of  gray  expand 
O'er  the  fleeting  robe  of  Night. 

As  Night  flits,  she  does  but  cry, 
"  Seize  the  moments  that  remain  " : 

Thus  our  joys  with  yours  shall  vie, 
Tenants  of  yon  hallowed  fane  ! 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOC  Y,  1 19 


It  was  Rais'  turn  next,  who  charmed  us  with  this  plaintive 
little  dialogue,  supposed  to  pass  betwixt  himself  and  a  Lady : 


DIALOGUE  BY   RAIS. 

Rais. 

MAID  of  sorrow,  tell  us  why 
Sad  and  drooping  hangs  thy  head  ? 
Is  it  grief  that  bids  thee  sigh  ? 
Is  it  sleep  that  flies  thy  bed  ? 

Lady. 

AH  I  I  mourn  no  fancied  wound ; 
Pangs  too  true  this  heart  have  wrung, 
Since  the  snakes  which  curl  around 
Selim's  brows  my  bosom  stung. 

Destined  now  to  keener  woes, 

I  must  see  the  youth  depart ; 
He  must  go,  and,  as  he  goes. 

Rend  at  once  my  bursting  heart. 

Slumber  may  desert  my  bed ; 

*Tis  not  slumber's  charms  I  seek : 
'Tis  the  robe  of  beauty  spread 

O'er  my  Selim's  rosy  cheek. 


/ 


I20  ARAB/AX  AX7H0L0G\, 


TO    A    LADY    WEEPING. 
By   Ebn    Alrumi. 

WHEN  I  beheld  thy  blue  eye  shine 
Through  the  bright  drop  that  Pity  drew, 
I  saw  beneath  those  tears  of  thine 
A  blue-eyed  violet  bathed  in  dew. 

The  violet  ever  scents  the  gale, 

Its  hues  adom  the  fairest  wreath ; 
But  sweetest  through  a  dewy  veil 

Its  colours  glow,  its  odours  breathe. 

And  thus  thy  charms  in  brightness  rise  : 
When  Wit  and  Pleasure  round  thee  play ; 

When  Mirth  sits  smiling  in  thine  eyes, 
Who  but  admires  their  sprightly  ray  ? 

But  when  through  Pity's  flood  they  gleam, 
Who  but  must  im^e  their  softened  beam  ? 


^ 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  121 


ON  A  VALETUDINARIAN. 

By  the  Same. 

SO  careful  is  Isa,  and  anxious  to  last^ 
So  afraid  of  himself  is  he  grown, 
He  swears  through  two  nostrils  the  breath  goes  too  fast, 
And  he's  trying  to  breathe  through  but  one. 


ON    A    MISER. 

By  the  Same. 

HANG  her — a  thoughtless,  wasteful  fool, 
She  scatters  com  where'er  she  goes  !" 
Quoth  Hassan,  angry  at  his  mule, 
That  dropped  a  dinner  to  the  crows. 


122  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


TO    CASSIM    OBID    ALLAH, 

ON  THE  DEATH  OF  ONE  OF  HIS  SONS. 

Bt   Ali    Bkv   Ahmed   Bin   Mansour. 

POOR  Cassim  !  thou  art  doomed  to  mourn, 
By  Destin/s  decree ; 
^Vhatever  happen,  it  must  turn 
To  misery  for  thee. 

Two  sons  hadst  thou,  the  one  thy  pride. 

The  other  was  thy  pest ; 
Ah,  why  did  cruel  Death  decide 

To  snatch  away  the  best  ? 

No  wonder  thou  shouldst  droop  with  woe, 

Of  such  a  child  bereft : 
But  now  thy  tears  must  doubly  flow, 

For  ah, — the  other's  left  ! 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  125 


TO    A    FRIEND, 

ON  HIS  BIRTHDAY. 

WHEN  born,  in  tears  we  saw  thee  drowned. 
While  thine  assembled  friends  around 
With  smiles  their  joy  confessed : 
So  live,  that  at  thy  parting  hour. 
They  may  the  flood  of  sorrow  pour, 
And  thou  in  smiles  be  dressed. 


124  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


ON    A    CAT, 

THAT  WAS  KILLED   AS  SHE  WAS   ATTEMPTING   TO   ROB 

A   DOVE-HOUSE. 

By  Jbn  Alalaf  Alnaharwany. 


POOR  Puss  is  gone  ! — 'tis  Fate's  decree — 
Yet  I  must  still  her  loss  deplore ; 
For  dearer  than  a  child  was  she, 
And  ne'er  shall  I  behold  her  more. 

With  many  a  sad  presaging  tear, 

This  mom  I  saw  her  steal  away, 
While  she  went  on  without  a  fear. 

Except  that  she  should  miss  her  prey. 

I  saw  her  to  the  dove-house  climb, 
With  cautious  feet  and  slow  she  stept, 

Resolved  to  balance  loss  of  time 
By  eating  faster  than  she  crept. 

Her  subtle  foes  were  on  the  watch. 

And  marked  her  course,  with  fury  fraught ; 

And  while  she  hoped  the  birds  to  catch. 
An  arrow's  point  the  huntress  caught. 

In  fancy  she  had  got  them  all. 

And  drunk  their  blood  and  sucked  their  breath ; 
Alas !  she  only  got  a  fall. 

And  only  drank  the  draught  of  death. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  125 


Why,  why  was  pigeon's  flesh  so  nice, 
That  thoughtless  cats  should  love  it  thus  ? 

Hadst  thou  but  lived  on  rats  and  mice, 
Thou  hadst  been  living  still,  poor  Puss  ! 

Cursed  be  the  taste,  howe'er  refined. 
That  prompts  us  for  such  joys  to  wish ; 

And  cursed  the  dainty  where  we  find 
Destruction  lurking  in  the  dish  ! 


126  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


EPIGRAM 

ON 

EBN    NAPHTA-WAH. 
Bt  Mohammed  Ben  Zeid  Almotakalam. 

fix  order  to  understand  Ben  Zeid*s  Charade,  we  must  remark 
that,  in  Arabic,  Naphta  signifies  a  combustible  not  very  much 
unlike  our  gunpowder,  and  that  Wah  is  an  exclamation  of 
sorrow.] 

BY  the  former  with  ruin  and  death  we  are  curst ; 
In  the  latter  we  grieve  for  the  ills  of  the  first  \ 
And  as  for  the  whole^  where  together  they  meet. 
It's  a  drunkard,  a  liar,  a  thief,  and  a  cheat 


FIRE:    A    RIDDLE. 

THE  loftiest  cedars  I  can  eat, 
Yet  neither  paunch  nor  mouth  have  I ; 
I  storm  whene'er  you  give  me  meat ; 
Whene'er  you  give  me  drink,  I  die. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  127 


TO  A  LADY, 

ON   SEEING   HER   BLUSH. 

By  the  Khalif  Radhi  Billah. 

LEILA,  whene'er  I  gaze  on  thee 
My  altered  cheek  tiims  pale ; 
While  upon  thine,  sweet  maid,  I  see 
A  deepening  blush  prevail. 

Leila,  shall  I  the  cause  impart 
Why  such  a  change  takes  place  ? — 

The  crimson  stream  deserts  my  heart 
To  mantle  on  thy  face. 


128  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


ON  THE  VICISSITUDES  OF  LIFE. 

By  the  Sams. 

MORTAL  joys,  however  pure, 
Soon  their  turbid  source  betray ; 
Mortal  bliss,  however  sure, 
Soon  must  totter  and  decay. 

Ye  who  now,  with  footsteps  keen, 
Range  through  Hope's  delusive  field, 

Tell  us  what  the  smiling  scene 
To  your  ardent  grasp  can  yield  ? 

Other  youths  have  oft  before 

Deemed  their  joys  would  never  fade, 

Till  themselves  were  seen  no  more — 
Swept  into  oblivion's  shade. 

Who,  with  health  and  pleasure  gay, 
E'er  his  fragile  state  could  know, 

Were  not  age  and  pain  to  say — 
Man  is  but  the  child  of  woe  ? 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  129 


TO  A  DOVE. 
Bt  Seragb  Alwarak. 

THE  Dove,  to  ease  an  aching  breast, 
In  piteous  murmurs  vents  her  cares ; 
Like  me,  she  sorrows,  for,  oppressed, 
Like  me,  a  load  of  grief  she  bears. 

Her  plaints  are  heard  in  every  wood, 
While  I  would  fain  conceal  my  woes  : 

But  vain's  my  wish — the  briny  flood, 
The  more  I  strive,  the  faster  flows. 

Sure,  gentle  bird,  my  drooping  heart 
Divides  the  pangs  of  love  with  thine ; 

And  plaintive  murm'rings  are  thy  part. 
And  silent  grief  and  tears  are  mine. 


I30  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


ON    A    THUNDER-STORM. 

By  Ibrahim  Ben  Khiret  Abu  Isaac. 

BRIGHT  smOed  the  mom,  till  o'er  its  head 
The  clouds  in  thickened  foldings  spread 
A  robe  of  sable  hue ; 
Then,  gathering  round  Day's  golden  King, 
They  stretched  their  wide  overshadowing  wing, 
And  hid  him  from  our  view. 

The  rain  his  absent  beams  deplored, 
And,  softened  into  weeping,  poiu-ed 

Its  tears  in  many  a  flood ; 
The  lightning  laughed,  with  horrid  glare ; 
The  thunder  growled,  in  rage ;  the  air 

In  silent  sorrow  stood. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  131 


TO    HIS    FAVOURITE    MISTRESS. 
By  Saif  Addaulet,  Sultan  of  Aleppo. 

I   SAW  their  jealous  eyeballs  roll, 
I  saw  them  mark  each  glance  of  mine ; 
I  saw  thy  terrors,  and  my  soul 
Shared  every  pang  that  tortured  thine. 

In  vain,  to  wean  my  constant  heart, 
Or  quench  my  glowing  flame,  they  strove : 

Each  deep-laid  scheme,  each  envious  art, 
But  waked  my  fears  for  her  I  love. 

Twas  this  compelled  the  stem  decree 
That  forced  thee  to  those  distant  towers, 

And  left  me  nought  but  love  for  thee,   - 
To  cheer  my  solitary  hours. 

Yet  let  not  Abla  sink  depressed. 

Nor  separation's  pangs  deplore : 
We  meet  not —  'tis  to  meet  more  blest ; 

We  parted —  'tis  to  part  no  more. 


132  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 

ON  THE 

CRUCIFIXION    OF    EBN    BAKIAIL 
By  Abu  Hassan  Alanbaby. 

WHATFER  thy  &te,  in  Ufe  and  deaA, 
Thou'it  doomed  above  us  sdll  to  rise, 
Whibt  at  a  distance  &r  bauath 
We  view  thee  with  admiring  eyes. 

The  gazing  crowds  still  round  thee  throng. 
Still  to  thy  well-known  voice  repair. 

As  when  erewhile  thy  haUowed  tongue 
Poured  in  the  mosque  the  solemn  prayer. 

Still,  generous  Xlzier,  we  survey 
Thine  arms  extended  o'er  our  head. 

As  lately,  in  the  festive  day. 

When  they  were  stretched  thy  gifts  to  shed. 

Earth  s  narrow  bound  nes  strove  in  vain 

To  limit  thy  aspiring  mind ; 
And  now  we  see  thy  dust  disdain 

Within  her  breast  to  be  confined. 

The  earth's  too  small  for  one  so  great ; 

Another  mansion  thou  shalt  have — 
The  clouds  shall  be  thy  winding-sheet, 

The  spacious  vault  of  heaven  thy  grave. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  133 


ON  THE 

CAPRICES    OF    FORTUNE. 

By  Shems  Almaali  Casus, 
the  dsthronbd  sultan  of  georgia. 

WHY  should  I  blush  that  Fortune's  frown 
Dooms  me  life's  humble  paths  to  tread? 
To  live  unheeded  and  unknown  ! 
To  sink  forgotten  to  the  dead  1 

Tis  not  the  good,  the  wise,  the  brave, 

That  surest  shine,  or  highest  rise : 
The  feather  sports  upon  the  wave, 

The  pearl  in  ocean's  cavern  lies. 

Each  lesser  star  that  studs  the  sphere 

Sparkles  with  undiminished  light  : 
Dark  and  eclipsed  alone  appear 

The  Lord  of  Day,  the  Queen  of  Night. 


134  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


LIFK 

LIKE  sheep,  we're  doomed  to  travel  o*er 
The  fated  track  to  all  assigned  \ 
These  follow  those  that  went  before, 
And  leave  the  world  to  those  behind. 

As  the  flock  seeks  the  pasturing  shade, 

Man  presses  to  the  future  day ; 
While  Deatbi  amidst  the  tufted  glade, 

Like  the  dun  robber,*  waits  his  prey. 


♦  f>.— The  Wolf: 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  135 


TO    LEILA. 

LEILA,  with  too  successful  art. 
Has  spread  for  me  Love's  cniel  snare  \ 
And  now,  when  she  has  caught  my  heart, 
She  laughs,  and  leaves  it  to  despair. 

Thus  the  poor  sparrow  pants  for  breath, 

Held  captive  by  a  playful  boy ; 
And  while  it  drinks  the  draught  of  death, 

The  thoughtless  child  looks  on  with  joy. 

Ah !  were  its  fluttering  pinions  free, 
Soon  would  it  bid  its  chains  adieu  ; 

Or  did  the  child  its  sufferings  see, 
He'd  pity  and  relieve  them  too. 


136  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


EXTEMPORE    VERSES 

ON  THE  SULTAN  CARAWASH,  HIS  PRINCIPAL  MUSICIAN 

BARKAIDY,  HIS  VIZIER  EBN  FADHI,  AND  HIS 

CHAMBERLAIN  ABU  JABER. 

By  £bn  Alramacram. 

LOWERING  as  Barkaidy's  £ace, 
The  wintry  night  came  in, 
Cold  as  the  music  of  his  bass, 
And  lengthened  as  his  chin. 

Sleep  from  my  aching  eyes  had  fled, 

And  kept  as  far  apart 
As  sense  from  Ebn  Fadhi's  head, 

Or  virtue  from  his  heart 

« 

The  dubious  paths  my  footsteps  balked, 

I  slipped  along  the  sod, 
As  if  on  Jaber's  faith  I'd  walked. 

Or  on  his  truth  had  trod. 

At  length  the  rising  King  of  Day 

Burst  on  the  gloomy  wood, 
Like  Carawash's  eye,  whose  ray 

Dispenses  every  good. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  137 


ON  THE 

DEATH   OF  A  SON. 
By  Ali  Bek  Mohammed  Altahmaht. 

TYRANT  of  Man !    Imperious  Fate  I 
I  bow  before  thy  dread  decree ; 
Nor  hope  in  this  uncertain  state 
To  find  a  seat  secure  from  thee. 

Life  is  a  dark,  tumultuous  stream. 
With  many  a  care  and  sorrow  foul ; 

Yet  thoughtless  mortals  vainly  deem 
That  it  can  yield  a  limpid  bowl. 

Think  not  that  stream  will  backward  flow, 
Or  cease  its  destined  course  to  keep ; 

As  soon  the  blazing  spark  shall  glow 
Beneath  the  surface  of  the  deep. 

Believe  not  Fate,  at  thy  command. 
Will  grant  a  meed  she  never  gave ; 

As  soon  the  airy  tower  shall  stand 
That's  built  upon  a  passing  wave. 

Life  is  a  sleep  of  threescore  years ; 

Death  bids  us  wake  and  hail  the  light ; 
And  man,  with  all  his  hopes  and  fears, 

Is  but  a  phailtom  of  the  night. 


138  ARABIA!^  ANTHOLOGY. 


ON  MODERATION  IN  OUR  PLEASURES. 
By  Abu  Alcassim  Ebn  Tabataba. 

HOW  oft  does  passion's  grasp  destroy 
The  pleasure  that  it  strives  to  gain ! 
How  soon  the  thoughtless  course  of  joy 
Is  doomed  to  terminate  in  pain  ! 

When  Prudence  would  thy  steps  delay, 
She  but  restrains  to  make  thee  blest ; 

Whatever  fix)m  joy  she  lops  away 
But  heightens  and  secures  the  rest 

Wouldst  thou  a  trembling  flame  expand 
That  hastens  in  the  lamp  to  die  ? 

With  careful  touch,  with  sparing  hand. 
The  feeding  stream  of  life  supply. 

But  if  thy  flask  profusely  sheds 
A  rushing  torrent  o'er  the  blaze, 

Swift  round  the  sinking  flame  it  spreads, 
And  kills  the  fire  it  fain  would  raise. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  139 


ON  THE 

VALE    OF   BOZAA. 
Bt  Ahmed  Ben  Yousef  Almevazt. 

THE  intertwining  boughs  for  thee 
Have  wove,  sweet  dell,  a  verdant  vest, 
And  thou  in  turn  shall  give  to  me 
A  verdant  couch  upon  thy  breast 

To  shield  me  from  Day's  fervid  glare, 
Thine  oaks  their  fostering  arms  extend, 

As,  anxious  o'er  her  infant  care, 
I've  seen  a  watchful  mother  bend. 

A  brighter  cup,  a  sweeter  draught, 

I  gather  from  that  rill  of  thine, 
Than  maddening  drunkards  ever  quaffed. 

Than  all  the  treasiu'es  of  the  vine. 

So  smooth  the  pebbles  on  its  shore. 
That  not  a  maid  can  thither  stray. 

But  counts  her  strings  of  jewels  o'er. 
And  thinks  the  pearls  have  slipped  away. 


I40  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


TO    ADVERSITY. 

Bt  Abu  Mbnbaa  Cajlawash,  Sultah  of  Mousbl. 

HAIL,  chastening  friend,  Adversity !  'tis  thine 
The  mental  ore  to  temper  and  refine ; 
To  cast  in  Virtue's  mould  the  yieldmg  heart. 
And  Honour's  polish  to  the  mind  impart 

Without  thy  wakening  touch,  thy  plastic  £ud, 
I*d  lain  the  shapeless  mass  that  Nature  made ; 
But  formed,  great  artist,  by  thy  magic  hand, 
I  gleam  a  sword,  to  conquer  and  command 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  141 


ON 

THE    INCOMPATIBILITY  OF   PRIDE 
AND    TRUE    GLORY. 

By  Abu  Alola. 

THINK  not,  AbdaUah,  Pride  and  Fame 
Can  ever  travel  hand  in  hand ; 
With  breast  opposed,  and  adverse  aim. 
On  the  same  narrow  path  they  stand. 

Thus  Youth  and  Age  together  meet, 
And  Life's  divided  moments  share : 

This  can't  advance  till  that  retreat ; 
Whaf  s  here  increased,  is  lessened  there. 

And  thus  the  falling  shades  of  Night 

Still  struggle  with  the  lucid  ray. 
And  ere  they  stretch  their  gloomy  flight, 

Must  win  the  lengthened  space  from  Day. 


142  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 


ON  THE 

DEATH  OF  NEDHAM  ALMOLK, 

VIZIER  TO  THE  THREE   FIRST  SELJUK 
SULTANS   OF   PERSIA. 

By   Shkbal   Addaulet. 

THY  virtues,  famed  through  every  land, 
Thy  spotless  life  in  age  and  youth, 
Prove  thee  a  pearl,*  by  Nature's  hand 
Formed  out  of  purity  and  truth. 

Too  long  its  beams  of  orient  light 
Upon  a  thankless  world  were  shed : 

Allah  has  now  revenged  the  slight, 
And  called  it  to  its  native  bed. 


Nedham,  in  Arabic,  signifies  a  string  of  pearls. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY,  143 


VERSES 

ADDRESSED  BY  WALADATA,  DAUGHTER  OF  MOHAMMED 

ALMOSTAKFI   BILLAH^   KHALIF  OF  SPAIN,  TO  SOME 

YOUNG  MEN,  WHO  HAD  PRETENDED  A  PASSION 

FOR  HERSELF  AND   HER  COMPANIONS. 

WHEN  you  told  us  our  glances,  soft,  timid,  and 
mild, 

Could  occasion  such  wounds  in  the  heart, 

Can  ye  wonder  that  yours,  so  ungovemed  and  wild. 

Some  wounds  to  our  cheeks  should  impart  ? 

The  wounds  on  our  cheeks  are  but  transient,  I  own, 

With  a  blush  they  appear  and  decay ; 
But  those  on  the  heart,  fickle  youths,  ye  have  shown 

To  be  even  more  transient  than  they. 


144  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


VERSES 

ADDRESSED  TO  HIS  DAUGHTERS,  DURING 
HIS  IMPRISONMENT, 

Bt  Motammed  Ben  Abad,  Sultak  op  Seville. 


["  Upon  a  certain  festival/'  says  Ebn  Khocan,  a  contemporary 
writer,  ''during  the  confinement  of  Motammed,  he  was  waited 
upon  by  his  children,  who  came  to  receive  his  blessing,  and  to 
offer  up  their  prayers  for  his  welfare.  Amongst  these  some  were 
females,  and  their  appearance  was  truly  deplorable.  They  were 
naturally  beauteous  as  the  moon,  but,  from  the  rags  which  co- 
vered them,  they  seemed  like  the  moon  under  an  eclipse  :  their 
feet  were  bare  and  bleeding,  and  every  trace  of  their  former  splen- 
dour was  completely  effaced.  At  this  melancholy  spectacle  their 
unfortunate  father  gave  way  to  his  sorrow  in  the  following 
verses."] 


WITH  jocund  heart  and  cheerful  brow, 
I  used  to  hail  the  festal  mom  : 
How  must  Motammed  greet  it  now? — 
A  prisoner,  helpless  and  forlorn ; 

While  these  dear  maids,  in  beauty's  bloom, 
With  want  oppressed,  with  rags  overspread. 

By  sordid  labours  at  the  loom 
Must  earn  a  poor,  precarious  bread. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  14S 

Those  feety  that  never  touched  the  ground 
Till  musk  or  camphor  strewed  the  way, 
Now,  bare  and  swoll'n  with  many  a  wound, 
Must  struggle  through  the  miry  clay. 

Those  radiant  cheeks  are  veiled  in  woe, 
A  shower  descends  from  every  eye ; 

And  not  a  starting  tear  can  flow 
That  wakes  not  an  attending  sigh. 

Fortune,  that  whilom  owned  my  sway, 
And  bowed  obsequious  to  my  nod, 

Now  sees  me  destined  to  obey, 
And  bend  beneath  oppression's  rod. 

Ye  mortals,  with  success  elate. 
Who  bask  in  Hope's  delusive  beam. 

Attentive  view  Motammed's  fate. 
And  own  that  bliss  is  but  a  dream. 


K 


146  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


A  SERENADE 

TO  HIS  SLEEPING  MISTRESS. 

By  Ali  Ben  Abd  Algany,  of  Cordova. 

SURE  Harut's*  potent  spells  were  breathed 
Upon  that  magic  sword,  thine  eye ; 
For  if  it  wounds  us  thus  while  sheathed, 
When  drawn  'tis  vain  its  edge  to  fiy. 

How  canst  thou  doom  me,  cruel  ^ur, 
Plimged  in  the  hellf  of  scorn,  to  groan? 

No  idol  e'er  this  heart  could  share — 
This  heart  has  worshipped  thee  alone. 


*  A  wicked  angel,  who  is  pennitted  to  tempt  mankind  by 
teaching  them  magic :  see  the  legend  respecting  him  in  Sale  s 
Kor^. 

+  The  poet  here  alludes  to  the  punishments  denounced  in  the 
Kor&n  against  those  who  worship  a  plurality  of  gods :  "  their 
couch  shall  be  in  hell,  and  over  them  shall  be  coverings  of  fire." 
Sur.  2. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  147 


THE  INCONSISTENT. 

TO   A   LADYy  UPON    HER    REFUSAL   OF   A  PRESENT  OF 

MELONS^   AND   HER  REJECTION   OF  THE 

ADDRESSES  OF  AN  ADMIRER. 


WHEN  I  sent  you  my  melons,  you  cried  out  with 
scorn, 

"  They  ought  to  be  heavy ^  and  wrinkled^  znAyeUaw:^' 

When  I  offered  myself,  whom  those  graces  adorn. 

You  flouted,  and  called  me  an  ugly  old  fellow ! 


148  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


ON  THE 

CAPTURE    OF   JERUSALEM, 

IN  THE  FIRST  CRUSADE. 

Bt  Almodhafer  Alabiwerdt. 


FROM  our  distended  eyeballs  flow 
A  mingled  stream  of  tears  and  blood ; 
Nor  care  we  feel,  nor  wish  we  know, 
But  who  shall  pour  the  largest  flood. 

But  what  defence  can  tears  afibrd  ? 

What  aid  supply  in  this  dread  hour? 
When,  kindled  by  the  sparkling  sword. 

War's  raging  flames  the  land  devour ! 

No  more  let  sleep's  seductive  charms 
Upon  your  torpid  souls  be  shed : 

A  crash  like  this,  such  dire  alarms. 
Might  burst  the  slumbers  of  the  dead. 

Think  where  your  dear  companions  lie — 
Survey  their  fate,  and  hear  their  woes  : 

How  some  through  trackless  deserts  fly. 
Some  in  the  vulture's  maw  repose  \ 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  149 

While  some,  more  wretched  still,  must  beax 
The  taimtings  of  a  Christian's  tongue ; — 

Hear  this — and  blush  ye  not  to  wear 
The  silken  robe  of  peace  so  long  ? 

Remember  what  ensanguined  showers 
The  Syrian  plains  with  crimson  dyed ; 

And  think  how  many  blooming  flowers 
In  Syrian  forts  their  beauties  hide. 

Arabian  youths !  in  such  a  cause 

Can  ye  the  voice  of  glory  slight  ? 
Warriors  of  Persia  I    Can  ye  pause, 

Or  fear  to  mingle  in  the  fight  ? 

If  neither  piety  nor  shame 

Your  breasts  can  warm,  your  souls  can  move. 
Let  emulation's  bursting  flame 

Wake  you  to  Vengeance  and  to  Love  ! 


ISO  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 

TO  A  LADY, 

WHO  ACCUSED  HER  LOVER  OF  FLATTERY. 

NOy  Abla,  no— when  Selim  tells 
Of  many  an  unknown  grace  that  dwells 
In  Abla's  face  and  mien ; 
When  he  describes  the  sense  refined 
That  lights  thine  eye,  and  fills  thy  mind. 
By  thee  alone  unseen, — 

Tis  not  that,  drunk  with  Love,  he  sees 
Ideal  charms  which  only  please 

Through  Passion's  partial  veQ ; 
rris  not  that  Flattery's  glozing  tongue 
Hath  basely  firamed  an  idle  song, 

But  Truth  that  breathed  the  tale. 

Thine  eyes  imaided  ne'er  could  trace 
Each  opening  charm,  each  varied  grace, 

That  round  thy  person  plays  : 
Some  must  remain  concealed  from  thee. 
For  Selim's  watchful  eye  to  see. 

For  Selim's  tongue  to  praise. 

One  polished  mirror  can  declare 
That  eye  so  bright,  that  face  so  &ir. 

That  cheek  which  shames  the  rose ; 
But  how  thy  mantle  waves  behind. 
How  float  thy  tresses  on  the  wind. 

Another  only  shows. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  151 


EPIGRAM 

ON 

ABU   ALCHAIR   SELAMU, 

AN  EGYPTIAN  PHYSICIAN. 

By  Gborgb,  a  Physician  op  Antioch. 

WHOEVER  has  recourse  to  thee 
Can  hope  for  health  no  more  : 
He's  launched  into  perdition's  sea, 
A  sea  without  a  shore. 

Where'er  admission  thou  canst  gain, 
Where'er  thy  phiz  can  pierce, 

At  once  the  Doctor  they  retain, 
The  mourners  and  the  hearse. 


152  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


TO   A   LITTLE   MAN   WITH   A   VERY 

LARGE  BEARD. 

By  Isaac  Ben  Khalif. 

HOW  can  thy  chin  that  burden  bear? 
Is  it  all  gravity  to  shock? 
Is  it  to  make  the  people  stare, 
And  be  thyself  a  laughmg-stock  ? 

When  I  behold  thy  little  feet 

After  thy  beard  obsequious  run, 
I  always  fancy  that  I  meet 

Some  father  followed  by  his  son. 

A  man  like  thee  scarce  e'er  appeared ; 

A  beard  like  thine,  where  shall  we  find  it? 
Surely  thou  cherishest  thy  beard, 

In  hopes  to  hide  thyself  behind  it  1 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  153 

LAMIAT    ALAJEM. 

By  Mauid  Eddin  Alhassak  Abu  Ismasl  Altograi. 

[Thb  scene  lies  in  the  desert,  where  the  poet  is  supposed  to  be 
travelling  along  with  a  caravan.  The  time  is  midnight,  and 
while  he  is  kept  awake  by  his  sorrows,  his  fellow-travellers  are 
slumbering  around  him. 

The  author  opens  the  poem  with  a  panegyric  upon  his  own 
integrity,  and  the  magnanimity  he  has  shown  under  various  mis- 
fortunes; these  he  is  proceeding  to  recount,  when  he  seems 
suddenly  struck  with  the  sight  of  a  friend  lying  asleep  at  some 
distance  from  him.  The  poet  adjures  this  friend  to  arise,  and 
accompany  him  in  an  enterprise,  the  object  of  which  was  to  visit 
a  lady,  whose  habitation  was  in  the  neighbourhood.  Fired  with 
the  idea  of  his  mistress,  he  breaks  forth  into  a  description  of  the 
happiness  of  those  who  are  admitted  to  her  society,  and  resolves 
that  nothing  shall  divert  him  from  his  purpose.  His  friend, 
however,  appearing  unmoved  by  his  solicitations,  he  at  length 
gives  up  his  intention  in  despair,  and  after  many  bitter  invectives 
against  cowardice  and  sloth,  returns  to  the  subject  of  his  mis- 
fortunes, and  concludes  the  poem  with  an  ardent  exhortation  to 
mistrust  mankind,  and  in  every  contingence  to  rely  solely  upon 
our  own  prudence  and  fortitude.] 

NO  kind  supporting  hand  I  meet, 
But  Fortitude  shall  stay  my  feet ; 
No  borrowed  splendours  roimd  me  shine, 
But  Virtue's  lustre  all  is  mine  : 
A  fame  unsullied  still  I  boast, 
Obscured,  concealed,  but  never  lost — 
The  same  bright  orb  that  led  the  day 
Pours  from  the  west  his  mellowed  ray. 


154  ARABIAN  ANIHOLOGY. 

Zaura,  £uewell !    No  more  I  see 
\^thin  thy  waUs  a  home  for  me ; 
Deserted,  spurned,  aside  I'm  tossed, 
As  an  old  sword  whose  scabbard's  lost : 
Aromid  thy  walls  I  seek  in  vain. 
Some  bosom  that  will  soothe  my  pain — 
No  friend  is  near  to  breathe  relief^ 
Or  brother  to  partake  my  grie£ 

For  many  a  melancholy  day 
Through  desert  vales  I've  wound  my  way ; 
The  £uthiul  beast  whose  back  I  press 
In  groans  laments  her  lord's  distress ; 
In  every  quivering  of  my  spear 
A  sympathetic  sigh  I  hear ; 
The  camel,  bending  with  his  load. 
And  stru^ling  through  the  thorny  road. 
Midst  the  £sitigues  that  bear  him  down. 
In  Hassan's  woes  forgets  his  own  ; — 
Yet  cruel  friends  my  wanderings  chide. 
My  sufferings  slight,  my  toils  deride. 

Once  wealth,  I  own,  engrossed  each  diooght ; 
There  was  a  moment  when  I  sou^t 
The  glittering  stores  Ambition  claims 
To  feed  the  wants  his  fancy  frames  ; 
But  now  'tis  {xist :  the  changing  day 
Has  snatched  my  high-built  hopes  away. 
And  bade  this  wsh  my  labours  close, — 
Give  me  not  riches,  but  repose. 


i 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  155 


Tis  he  !  that  mien  my  friend  declares. 
That  stature,  like  the  lance  he  bears ; 
I  see  that  breast  which  ne'er  contained 
A  thought  by  fear  or  folly  stained, 
Whose  powers  can  every  change  obey, 
In  business  grave,  in  trifles  gay. 
And  formed  each  varying  taste  to  please. 
Can  mingle  dignity  with  ease. 

What  though,  with  magic  influence,  sleep 
oyer  every  closing  eyelid  creep  ! 
Though,  drunk  with  its  oblivious  wine. 
Our  comrades  on  their  bales  recline. 
My  Selim's  trance  I  sure  can  break — 
Selim,  'tis  I,  'tis  I  who  speak  I 
Dangers  on  every  side  impend. 
And  sleep'st  thou,  careless  of  thy  friend  ? 
Thou  sleep'st,  while  every  star  from  high 
Beholds  me  with  a  wakeful  eye ; 
Thou  changest,  ere  the  changeful  Night 
Hath  streaked  her  fleeting  robe  with  white. 

'Tis  Love  that  hurries  me  along, 
I'm  deaf  to  Fear's  repressive  song ; 
The  rocks  of  Idham  I'll  ascend. 
Though  adverse  darts  each  path  defend. 
And  hostile  sabres  glitter  there. 
To  guard  the  tresses  of  the  fair. 

Come,  Selim,  let  us  pierce  the  grove, 
While  night  befriends,  to  seek  my  love. 


156  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 

The  clouds  of  fragrance,  as  they  rise, 
Shall  mark  the  place  where  Abla  lies. 
Around  her  tent  my  jealous  foes. 
Like  lions,  spread  their  watchful  rows ; 
Amidst  their  bands  her  bower  appears, 
Embosomed  in  a  wood  of  spears — 
A  wood  still  nourished  by  the  dews 
Which  smiles  and  softest  looks  diffuse. 

Thrice  happy  youths  !  who  midst  yon  shades 
Sweet  converse  hold  with  Idham's  maids  I 
What  bliss  to  view  them  gild  the  hours, 
And  brighten  Wit  and  Fancy's  powers, 
While  every  foible  they  disclose 
New  transport  gives,  new  graces  shows ! 
'Tis  theirs  to  raise  with  conscious  art 
T)\t  flames  of  love  in  every  heart ; 
n^\%  yours  to  raise  with  festive  glee 
T)^^  flames  of  hospitality : 
Smit  by  their  glances  lovers  lie, 
And  helpless  sink,  and  hopeless  die\ 
While,  slain  hy  you^  the  stately  steed 
To  crown  the  feast  is  doomed  to  bleed — 
To  crown  the  feast,  where  copious  flows 
The  sparkling  juice  that  soothes  your  woes. 
That  lulls  each  care  and  heals  each  wound. 
As  the  enlivening  bowl  goes  round. 

Amidst  those  vales  my  eager  feet 
Shall  trace  my  Abla's  dear  retreat ; 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  157 


A  gale  of  health  may  hover  there, 
To  breathe  some  solace  to  my  care. 
I  fear  not  Love — I  bless  the  dart 
Sent  in  a  glance  to  pierce  the  heart : 
With  willing  breast  the  sword  I  hail 
That  wounds  me  through  a  half-closed  veil ; 
Though  lions,  howling  round  the  shade, 
My  footsteps  haunt,  my  walks  invade. 
No  fears  shall  drive  me  from  the  grove. 
If  Abla  listen  to  my  love. 

Ah,  Selim  I  shall  the  spells  of  ease 
Thy  friendship  chain,  thine  ardour  freeze  ? 
Wilt  thou,  enchanted  thus,  decline 
Each  generous  thought,  each  bold  design  ? 
Then  far  from  men  some  cell  prepare. 
Or  build  a  mansion  in  the  air ; 
But  yield  to  us  ambition's  tide 
Who  fearless  on  its  waves  can  ride ; — 
Enough  for  thee,  if  thou  receive 
The  scattered  spray  the  billows  leave. 

Contempt  and  want  the  wretch  await 
Who  slumbers  in  an  abject  state — 
Midst  rushing  crowds,  by  toil  and  pain. 
The  meed  of  Honour  we  must  gain ; 
At  Honour's  call,  the  camel  hastes 
Through  trackless  wilds  and  dreary  wastes. 
Till  in  the  glorious  race  she  find 
The  fleetest  coursers  left  behind : 


IS8  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 

By  toils  like  these  alone,  he  cries, 
^       Th'  adventurous  youths  to  greatness  rise : 
If  bloated  indolence  were  fame, 
And  pompous  ease  om:  noblest  aim, 
The  orb  that  regulates  the  day 
Would  ne'er  from  Aries'  mansion  stray. 

I've  bent  at  Fortune's  shrine  too  long ; 
Too  oft  she  heard  my  suppliant  tongue ; 
Too  oft  has  mocked  my  idle  prayers, 
While  fools  and  knaves  engrossed  her  cares ; 
Awake  for  them,  asleep  to  me, 
Heedless  of  worth  she  scorned  each  plea. 
Ah  1  had  her  eyes,  more  just,  surveyed 
The  different  claims  which  each  displayed, 
Those  eyes,  from  partial  fondness  free. 
Had  slept  to  them,  and  waked  for  me. 

But  midst  my  sorrows  and  my  toils, 
Hope  ever  soothed  my  breast  with  smiles ; 
Her  hand  removed  each  gathering  ill, 
And  oped  life's  closing  prospects  still. 
Yet  spite  of  all  her  friendly  art, 
The  specious  scene  ne'er  gained  my  heart : 
I  loved  it  not,  although  the  day, 
Met  my  approach,  and  cheered  my  way ; 
I  loath  it,  now  the  hours  retreat. 
And  fly  me  with  reverted  feet 

My  soul,  from  every  tarnish  free. 
May  boldly  vaunt  her  purity  ; 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  159 

But  ah,  how  keen,  however  bright 
The  sabre  glitter  to  the  sight, 
Its  splendour's  lost,  its  polish  vain, 
Till  soroe  bold  hand  the  steel  sustain. 

Why  have  my  days  been  stretched  by  Fate 
To  see  the  vile  and  vicious  great, 
While  I,  who  led  the  race  so  long. 
Am  last  and  meanest  of  the  throng? 
Ah,  why  has  Death  so  long  delayed 
To  wrap  me  in  his  friendly  shade  ? — 
Left  me  to  wander  thus  alone, 
When  all  my  heart  held  dear  is  gone  ! 

But  let  me  check  these  fretful  sighs — 
Well  may  the  base  above  me  rise, 
When  yonder  planets,  as  they  run. 
Mount  in  the  sky  above  the  sun. 
Resigned  I  bow  to  Fate's  decree. 
Nor  hope  his  laws 'will  change  for  me : 
Each  shifting  scene,  each  varying  hour, 
But  proves  the  ruthless  tyrant's  power. 

But  though  with  ills  unnumbered  cursed. 
We  owe  to  feithless  man  the  worst ; 
For  man  can  smile  with  specious  art. 
And  plant  a  dagger  in  the  heart 
He  onl/s  fitted  for  the  strife 
Which  fills  the  boist'rous  paths  of  life, 
Who,  as  he  treads  the  crowded  scenes, 
Upon  no  kindred  bosom  leans. 


i6o  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 

Too  long  my  foolish  heart  had  deemed 

Mankind  as  virtuous  as  they  seemed  \ 

The  spell  is  broke,  their  faults  are  bare, 

And  now  I  see  them  as  they  are  : 

Truth  from  each  tainted  breast  has  flown. 

And  Falsehood  marks  them  all  her  own. 

Incredulous  I  listen  now 

To  every  tongue  and  every  vow, 

For  still  there  yawns  a  gulf  between 

Those  honeyed  words  and  what  they  mean. 

With  honest  pride  elate  I  see 

The  sons  of  Falsehood  shrink  from  me, 

As  from  the  right  line's  even  way 

The  biassed  curves  deflecting  stray. — 

But  what  avails  it  to  complain  ? 

With  souls  like  theirs  reproof  is  vain  ; 

If  honour  e'er  such  bosoms  share, 

The  sabre's  point  must  fix  it  there. 

But  why  exhaust  life's  vapid  bowl, 
And  suck  the  dregs  with  sorrow  foul, 
When  long  ere  this  my  youth  has  drained 
Whatever  zest  the  cup  contained? 
Why  should  we  mount  upon  the  wave 
And  ocean's  yawning  horrors  brave, 
When  we  may  swallow  from  the  flask 
Whate'er  the  wants  of  mortals  ask  ? 

Contentment's  realms  no  fears  invade. 
No  cares  annoy,  no  sorrows  shade  j 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 

There,  placed  secure,  in  peace  we  rest, 
Nor  aught  demaDd  to  make  us  blest. 
While  Pleasure's  gay  fantastic  bower, 
The  splendid  pageant  of  an  hour, 
Like  yonder  meteoi  in  the  skies. 
Flits  with  a  breath,  no  more  to  rise. 

As  through  life's  various  walks  we're  led, 
May  Prudence  hover  o'er  our  head ! 
May  she  our  words,  our  actions  guide, 
Oui  faults  correct,  our  secrets  hide ! 
May  she,  where'er  our  footsteps  stray, 
Direct  oui  paths  and  clear  the  way ! 
Till,  every  scene  of  tumult  past. 
She  bring  us  to  repose  at  last — 
Teach  us  to  love  that  peaceful  shore. 
And  roam  through  Folly's  wilds  no  more  I 


l62  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


TO    YOUTH, 

By  Ebn  Alrabia,  in  his  Old  Age. 

YES,  Youth,  thou'rt  fled,  and  I  am  left, 
Like  yonder  desolated  bower, 
By  Winter's  ruthless  hand  bereft 
Of  every  leaf  and  every  flower. 

With  heaving  heart  and  streaming  eyes, 
I  wooed  thee  to  prolong  thy  stay, 

But  vain  were  all  my  tears  and  sighs — 
Thou  only  fled'st  more  fast  away. 

Yet  though  thou  fled'st  away  so  fast, 

I  can  recall  thee  if  I  will ; 
For  I  can  talk  of  what  is  past. 

And  while  I  talk,  enjoy  thee  stilL 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  163 


ON    LOVE. 

By  Abu  Ali,  the  Mathematician. 

[Abu  Ali  flourished  in  Egypt  about  A.H.  530,  and  was  equally 
celebrated  as  a  mathematician  and  as  a  poet  In  the  following 
odd  composition  he  seems  to  have  united  these  two  discordant 
characters.] 

I  NEVER  knew  a  sprightly  fair 
That  was  not  dear  to  me ; 
And  freely  I  my  heart  could  share 
With  every  one  I  see. 

It  is  not  t?us  or  that  alone 
On  whom  my  choice  would  fall : 

I  do  not  more  incline  to  one 
Than  I  incline  to  all. 

The  circle's  bounding  line  are  they ; 

Its  centre  is  my  heart  j 
My  ready  love,  the  equal  ray 

That  flows  to  every  part. 


1 64  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY, 

A   REMONSTRANCE  WITH  A  DRUNKARD. 

By  Yah  I  a  Ben  Salambt. 

[This  author  was  a  native  of  Sjrria,  and  died  at  Miafieurakir,  in  the 
year  of  the  Hejra  553.] 

AS  drenched  in  wine,  the  other  night, 
Zeid  from  the  banquet  sallied, 
Thus  I  reproved  his  drunken  plight, 
Thus  he  my  prudence  rallied  : 

*'  In  beverage  so  impure  and  vile 

How  canst  thou  thus  delight  ?  " 
'*  My  cups,"  he  answered,  with  a  smile, 
Are  generous  and  bright" 


« 


"  Beware  those  dangerous  draughts,"  I  cried  : 

"  With  love  the  goblet  flows." 
"  And  cursed  is  he,"  the  youth  replied, 

"  Who  hatred  only  knows ! " 

"  Those  cups  too  soon,  with  sickness  fraught, 

Thy  stomach  shall  deplore." 
"Then  soon,"  he  cried,  "the  noxious  draught 

And  all  its  ills  are  o'er." 

"  Rash  youth  !  thy  guilty  joys  resign  " —  * 

"  I  will,"  at  length  he  said : 
"  I  vow  111  bid  adieu  to  wine — 

As  soon  as  I  am  dead  1 " 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  165 


VERSES 

ADDRESSED   BY  THE  KHALIF   ALMOKTAFI   LIAMRILLAH 

TO  A  LADY,   WHO   PRETENDED   A  PASSION   FOR 

HIM   IN   HIS   OLD  AGE. 

THOUGH  such  unbounded  love  you  swear, 
Tis  only  art  I  see : 
Can  I  believe  that  one  so  fair 
Should  ever  doat  on  me  ? 

Say  that  you  hate,  and  freely  show 

That  Age  displeases  Youth  j 
And  I  may  love  you,  when  I  know 

That  you  can  tell  the  truth. 


i66  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


ON    PROCRASTINATION. 
By  Hbbat  Allah  Ibn  Altalmitk. 

YOUTH  is  a  drunken,  noisy  houTy 
With  eveiy  folly  fraught ; 
But  man,  by  Age's  chastening  power. 
Is  sobered  into  thought 

Then  we  resolve  our  &ults  to  shim, 

And  shape  our  course  anew ; 
But  ere  the  wise  reform's  begun, 

Life  closes  on  our  view. 

The  travellers  thus,  who  wildly  roam. 

Or  heedlessly  delay. 
Are  left,  when  they  should  reach  their  home,. 

Benighted  on  the  way. 


ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY.  167 


ON  THE 

EARLY    DEATH   OF   ABU   ALHASSAN   ALI, 

SON  OF  THE  KHALIF  ALNASSAR  LEDIN  ALLAH. 

By  Camal  Eddin  Ben  Alnabit. 

SOON  hast  thou  run  the  race  of  life, 
Nor  could  our  tears  thy  speed  control : 
Still  in  the  coursers'  gen'rous  strife 
The  best  will  soonest  reach  the  goal 

As  Death  upon  his  hand  turns  o'er 
The  different  gems  the  world  displays, 

He  seizes  first,  to  swell  his  store, 
The  brightest  jewel  he  surveys. 

Thy  name,  by  every  breath  conveyed. 

Stretched  o'er  the  globe  its  boundless  flight ; 

Alas  !  in  eve  the  length'ning  shade 
But  lengthens  to  be  lost  in  night ! 

If  gracious  Allah  bade  thee  close 
Thy  youthful  eyes  so  soon  on  day, 

'Tis  that  he  readiest  welcomes  those 
Who  love  him  best,  and  best  obey. 


i68  ARABIAN  ANTHOLOGY. 


THE    INTERVIEW. 

A  SONG  IN  THE  RHYTHM   OF  THE  ORIGINAL, 
WITH  THE  MUSIC  ANNEXEB. 

[The  music  to  this  little  piece  was  written  dowxi,  by  a  firiend, 
from  the  singing  of  David  Zamir,  a  native  of  Bagdad,  who  resided 
with  the  translator  for  some  time  at  Cambridge.] 

DARKNESS  dosed  around,  loud  the  tempest 
drove, 

When  through  yonder  glen  I  saw  my  lover  rove, 

Dearest  youth  I 
Soon  he  reached  our  cot,  weary,  wet,  and  cold. 
But  warmth,  wine,  and  I  to  cheer  his  spirits  strove, 

Dearest  youth  1 

"  How,  my  love,"  cried  I,  "  durst  thou  hither  stray 

Through  the  gloom,  nor  fear  the  ghosts  that  haunt  the 
grove. 

Dearest  youth  ?  " 
^<  In  this  heart,"  said  he,  ''  fear  no  seat  can  find, 
When  each  thought  is  filled  alone  with  thee  and  love, 

Dearest  maid  1 " 


To  face  Page  /68, 


6  6 


'i^lMliTll'iTll'l 


6  4    6^ 


62        ^6     )B^    4 


6    6 
^         6.. — it^  4f 


i       e.      ^ 


I      ^    ■     ^- ^  ^      *.  P,         4 


^m 


3 


^ 


THE 

ROMANCE    OF    ANTAR: 

AN   EPITOME 

OF 

THE    FIRST    PART,    TRANSLATED    BY 

TERRICK  HAMILTON,  ESQ., 

WITH   SELECTIONS    FROM    THE    POETRY, 

By  the  Editor, 


/  have  only  seen  the  fourteenth  volume  of  this  work^ 
which  comprises  all  tJuU  is  eUgant  and  noble  in  com- 
position. So  lofty ^  so  various^  and  so  hold  is  its  style^ 
that  I  do  not  hesitate  to  rank  it  amongst  the  most  finished 
poems, — Sir  W.  Jones. 

This  is  the  work^  and  not^  as  is  generally  supposed^ 
the ''  Thousand  and  One  Nights/'  which  is  the  source  of 
the  stories  that  fill  the  tents  and  cottages  of  Arabia  and 
Egypt. — ^Von  Hammer. 


THE 


ROMANCE    OF    ANTAR. 


EDITOR'S    PREFACK 


IT  is  generally  believed  that  this  celebrated  Arabian  Romance 
was  composed,  in  the  eighth  century,  from  traditionary  tales 
which  had  been  long  current  in  the  East,  by  £1-Asma'ee,  a 
famous  philologist  and  poet  at  the  court  of  Hdroon  Er-Rasheed. 
Other  authors  and  sources  (for  instance,  Johainah  and  Abu 
Obeidah)  are  mentioned  in  the  work,  but  these,  according  to 
Von  Hammer,  have  been  inserted  by  story-tellers  in  the  coffee- 
houses. Lane,  in  his  admirable  work  on  the  Modem  Egyptians, 
remarks  that  the  'Ulam^  (learned  men)  "in  general  despise  the 
romance,  and  ridicule  the  assertion  that  El-Asma*ee  was  its 
author  "  :  their  opinion,  however,  on  a  question  of  this  kind,  is 
of  little  value. 

The  complete  work  is  usually  bound  up  in  forty-five  volumes 
of  various  sizes — presenting  a  mass  sufficient  to  appal  the  most 
indefatigable  of  translators ;  not  to  speak  of  the  impossibility  of 
finding  European  readers  who  would  wade  through  the  trans- 
lation, if  published.    An  abridged  copy  of  this  voluminous  work. 


172  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

done  by  some  learned  Syrians  (and  hence  called  the  Skamiyek,  or 
Syrian  Antar,  to  distinguish  it  from  the  original,  which  was  known 
as  the  Hijanyeh^  or  Arabian  Antar),  having  been  obtained  by 
Mr  Terrick  Hamilton,  during  his  residence  at  Constantinople, 
in  his  capacity  of  Oriental  Secretary  to  the  British  Embassy  there, 
he  was  induced  by  its  comparative  brevity  to  undertake  the  task 
of  translating  it  into  English. 

In  the  year  1819  the  first  fruits  of  his  labours  in  this  direction 
appeared  at  London  in  the  form  of  a  small  octavo  volume  of 
about  300  pages,  entitled,  "  Antar,  a  Bedoueen  Romance,  trans- 
lated from  the  Arabic/'  &c.,  with  a  short  introduction  by  a  friend 
who  had  seen  the  volume  through  the  press.  Next  year  (1820) 
three  more  volumes  were  issued,  completing  the  first  of  the  three 
parts  into  which  Mr  Hamilton  intended  dividing  his  translation, 
and  bringing  down  Antar*s  adventures  to  his  marriage  with 
Abla. 

The  work  was  very  favourably  noticed  by  the  leading  re- 
viewers of  the  day,  some  of  whom  ventured  to  predict  for  it 
a  popularity  in  this  country  as  great  as  that  accorded  to  the 
fascinating  "Thousand  and  One  Nights.*'  The  anticipations  of 
the  translator,  and  of  his  friendly  critics,  were,  however,  not 
realised :  the  marvellous  exploits  of  the  Absian  hero,  and  the 
wild  and  fiery,  the  tender  and  beautiful,  efiusions  of  natural  poetry 
with  which  the  narrative  is  interspersed,  had  little  interest  or 
charm  for  the  bulk  of  English  readers, — familiar  only  with  ab- 
surd imitations  of  Eastern  fiction,  adapted  from  the  French,  and 
bearing  as  little  resemblance  to  Oriental  story  as  the  stage  sailor 
of  transpontine  melodrama  bears  to  the  seaman  of  real  life, — 
and,  as  a  consequence,  the  translation  of  Antar  was  not  com- 
pleted ;  but  Mr  Hamilton  gives  an  outline  of  the  contents  of 
the  remainder,  as  follows  : — 

**  The  Second  Part  includes  the  period  when  the  hero  suspends 
his  Poem  at  Mecca.  This  grand  point  he  at  length  attains,  not 
only  by  the  friendly  dispositions  of  his  former  associates,  and  the 
continuance  of  his  own  heroic  deeds,  but  also  by  the  means  of  his 


EDITORS  PREFACE,  173 


two  sons  and  a  brother,  whom  he  discovers  amongst  the  heroes 
of  the  desert.  Encouraged  by  their  counsels,  and  urged  by  his 
own  ambition,  after  various  conflicts  and  conquests,  he  resolves 
to  crush  the  envious  malice  of  his  domestic  foes,  and  in  despite  of 
all  the  machinations  contrived  against  him,  and  the  hostilities 
of  all  the  most  potent  kings  of  Arabia,  he  succeeds  in  accom- 
plishing this  second  object  of  his  ambition. 

"The  Third  Part  comprises  the  death  of  Antar,  and  most  of 
his  comrades  and  relations ;  in  the  course  of  which  he  wages 
endless  wars  against  the  more  distant  tribes, — visits  Constanti- 
nople and  Europe,  and  invades  that  part  of  Arabia  inhabited  by 
the  Ethiopians,  amongst  whom  he  discovers  his  mother's  relations, 
and  finds  out  that  she  was  the  daughter  of  a  mighty  monarch, 
and  himself  thus  descended  in  both  lines  from  a  majestic  race. 
His  last  conquest  is  over  his  domestic  enemies.  His  death  is 
consonant  with  the  rules  of  poetical  justice.  He  falls  under  the 
hand  of  one  whom  he  might  have  justly  punished  with  death,  but 
who  was  the  object  of  cruelty  he  had  never  practised  on  any  one 
before,  not  even  his  most  inveterate  foes." 

This  singular  work  is  the  only  record  of  the  every-day 
life  of  the  Arabs  ere  yet  they  had  come  under  the  influence  of 
El-Isldm.  *'  Even  in  a  translation,'*  says  a  judicious  critic, 
"Antar  must  be  perused  with  pleasure  by  those  to  whom  the 
simple  modes  of  life  afford  matter  of  interesting  speculation,  and 
by  those  who  are  gratified  with  flowing  and  luxuriant  descriptions, 
united  to  lively  and  picturesque  sketches  of  events  and  characters." 
Here  the  virtues  and  the  vices  of  these  Children  of  the  Desert 
are  faithfully  portrayed :  hospitable,  brave,  vindictive ;  at  once 
liberal  and  avaricious ;  withal  possessing  a  punctilious  sense  of 
honour :  such  were  the  pre-Islamite  Arabs,  whom  the  pen  of  El- 
Asma'ee  has  so  vividly  delineated.  The  Poetry  with  which  the 
work  is  richly  jewelled  is  the  poetry  of  nature,  abounding  in 
touches  of  pathos,  far  beyond  the  reach  of  art. 

I  regret  that  I  have  been  unable  to  obtain  any  German  or 
French  translation  of  the  account  of  Antar's  suspending  his 
Kasidah  on  the  Kaaba;  but  my  friend  Mr.  E.  J.  W.  Gibb,  of 


174  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


Lochwood,  Lanarkshire,  a  young  Orientalist  of  much  promise, 
has  favoured  me  with  a  translation  of  the  Death  of  Antar— one 
of  the  noblest  of  heroic  poems — ^from  the  French  version  of  M. 
Caussin  de  Perceval,  which  is  appended  to  the  following  rough 
sketch  of  the  leading  incidents  in  the  First  Part,  according  to 
Mr  Hamilton's  translation. 


The  adventures  of  Antar  naturally  suggest  the  question  of  the 
origin  of  romantic  fiction,  or  chivalric  romance,  in  Europe,  which 
has  long  been,  and  perhaps  is  still,  the  subject  of  dispute  among 
men  of  learning.  By  some,  romantic  fiction  is  held  to  be  of 
purely  Gothic  origin,  brought  from  the  North  by  the  Scalds  who 
accompanied  the  army  of  RoUo  into  France ;  others,  again,  allege 
that  its  introduction  into  Europe  is  traceable  to  the  Saracens  who 
settled  in  Spain  early  in  the  8th  century.  The  truth  seems  to  be 
that  European  mediaeval  romances  were  composed,  in  unequal 
parts,  of  classical  tales  of  antiquity.  Northern  legends,  and 
Oriental  fictions. 

It  is  far  from  improbable  that  the  famous  Arabian  Romance  of 
Antar  furnished  the  model  for  the  earliest  of  the  regular  romances 
of  chivalry  which  were  current  in  Europe  during  the  middle  ages; 
indeed  a  comparison  of  incidents  in  the  work  of  El-Asma*ee  with 
others  found  in  the  so-called  Gothic  romances  will  show  some 
very  striking  parallels,  sufficient  of  themselves  to  lead  to  this 
conclusion. 

Many  of  the  tales  and  fictions  which  were  popular  in  Europe 
in  mediaeval  times,  and  which,  collected  from  oral  tradition,  have 
been  preserved  in  such  works  as  the  '*  Clericali  Disciplina  "  of 
Petrus  Alphonsus,  and  the  "Gesta  Romanorum,"  have  been 
traced  to  Eastern  sources — ^to  Arabia  and  Syria,  and  thence 
to  India,  through  Persia.  These  fictions  probably  came  into 
Europe,  partly  through  the  Saracens  of  Spain,  partly  through 
intercourse  with  the  East  during  the  Crusades. 


EDITOI^S  PREFACE.  175 


But  in  the  8th,  9th,  and  loth  centuries  there  was  free  inter- 
course between  the  Eastern  and  Western  countries  of  the  Roman 
world,  H&roon  Er-Rasheed  and  Charlemagne  interchanged  pre* 
sents  and  messages  of  good- will;  and  the  wondrous  adventures  of 
Antar  may  well  have  become  known  to  early  European  writers 
of  Chivalric  Romance,  when  communication  was  thus  open 
between  Asia  and  Europe. 

If,  however,  we  must  seek  in  the  Far  East  for  the  cradle  of 
popular  European  tales  and  fictions,  the  task  of  tracing  back  even 
Eastern  stories  to  their  originals  (for  regarding  popular  fictions 
especially  does  Solomon's  sweeping  assertion  hold  good — "there 
is  nothing  new  under  the  sun  ")  becomes  more  complicated  as  we 
pursue  our  researches  into  remote  antiquity. 

We  have  it  on  the  high  authority  of  Lane  that  the  '*  Thousand 
and  One  Nights*'  furnish  exact  pictures  of  Arabian  manners 
and  customs  at  the  period  when  they  were  composed ;  but  the 
groundwork  of  many  of  these  charming  tales  is  unquestionably 
of  Persian  or  Indian  origin.  For  example :  the  story,  familiar  to 
every  schoolboy,  of  El-'Ashshir  (the  "  AInaschar  "  of  our  common 
English  translation  of  Galland's  garbled  French  version)  and  his 
basket  of  glass-ware  finds  a  parallel  in  the  "Pankatantra,"  a 
collection  of  Sanskrit  Fables,  where  the  same  stoiy  is  told  of  a 
Brfihman  and  his  pot  of  rice.  But  even  in  this  ancient  work  we 
do  not  find  the  true  original  of  the  Arabian  Tale.  Professor 
Benfey  has  proved  these  Fables  to  have  been  borrowed  from 
Buddhistic  sources ;  and  Professor  Max  MuUer  thinks  '*  we  may 
go  a  step  farther,  and  maintain  that  not  only  the  general  outline 
of  these  Fables,  but  in  some  cases  the  veiy  words,  were  taken 
over  from  Pali  into  Sanskrit." — The  general  plan  of  the  "Thou- 
sand and  One  Nights  "  is  said  to  have  been  borrowed  from  that 
of  a  similar  Pehlevi  collection  of  Tales.  It  is  moreover  identical 
in  plan  with  that  of  the  Parables  of  Sendabad,  of  Hindu  origin, 
and  known  in  various  old  English  versions  under  the  title  of 
the  "  Seven  Wise  Masters.  '* 

But  it  is  thought  that  the  Romance  of  Antar  must  be  essentially 
original,  since  there  existed  no  work  of  the  same  kind  to  serve 


176  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR, 


for  a  model.  This  may  be  true ;  and  yet  it  appears  to  me  not 
impossible  that  some  of  the  heroic  adventures  ascribed  to  Antar 
in  this  work  may  have  been  derived  indirectly  firom  the  old 
Pehlevi  Romances  so  bitterly  denounced  by  the  Kur'fin.  One  of 
these  was  brought  into  Arabia  by  a  merchant  on  his  return  from 
Persia,  at  the  time  when  the  Prophet  was  promulgating  his  new 
religion.  The  Arabs,  it  is  said,  were  charmed  with  the  stories 
of  giants  and  dragons,  and  preferred  them  to  the  moral  instruc- 
tions of  Muhammad :  hence  the  passage  in  the  Kur'ftn  (chapter 
xxxi.)  against  romances  and  idle  tales.  The  Muslim  conquerors 
of  Persia,  it  is  well  known,  ruthlessly  destroyed  nearly  all  the 
literary  treasures  of  that  ancient  kingdom,  and  we  may  be  sure 
that  works  of  fiction  were  the  objects  of  their  special  abhorrence. 
But  oral  tradition  may  have  preserved  scenes  and  incidents  from 
the  old  Persian  Romances ;  and  since  it  is  said  that  to  the  obscurity 
of  time  do  the  ancients  owe  their  reputation  for  originality,  so  to 
sources,  which  are  now  for  ever  lost,  may  El-Asma'ee,  whose 
memory  was  richly  stored  with  traditionaxy  as  well  as  with 
written  lore,  have  been  indebted  for  some  of  the  adventures 
described  in  the  Romance  of  Antar. 


FROM  THE  TRANSLATOR'S  PREFACE. 


Antar  is  no  iimiginaiy  person  :  he  is  well  known  as  a  celebrated 
warrior,  and  as  the  author  of  one  of  the  Seven  Poems  suspended 
on  the  Kaaba  at  Mecca.  His  intrepidity  is  often  mentioned  by 
Abttlfeda,  as  being  the  subject  of  poetry ;  though  it  does  not 
appear  that  any  precise  composition  relating  to  his  feats  in  arms 
is  extant,  some  detached  pieces  may  have  survived  ;  still  it  must 
be  supposed  that  oral  tradition  alone  has  commemorated  in  verse, 
current  among  succeeding  generations,  those  various  proofs  of 
heroism  which  Asma'ee  afterwards  embodied  in  his  work.  That 
he  was  the  son  of  Shedad,  an  Absian  chief,  is  also  well  attested  ; 
though  it  does  not  so  clearly  appear  that  he  was  bom  of  a 
slave- woman. 

It  is  not  to  be  understood  that  Asma'ee  merely  intended  to 
compose  a  faithful  history  of  those  times  :  his  view  seems  rather 
to  comprise  in  a  pleasing  tale  numerous  isolated  facts,  and  the 
most  striking  traits  of  the  manners  and  usages  prevalent  at  that 
period ;  and  therefore  we  may  presume  that  he  has  embellished 
his  narrative  with  every  additional  circumstance  that  could 
possibly  throw  an  interest  over  his  hero,  or  attract  the  attention 
of  his  readers. 

And  that  he  has  succeeded  among  those  for  whom  the  work 
was  composed,  there  cannot  be  the  smallest  doubt.  It  is  also 
true  that  many  who  at  this  day  have  read  it  in  the  original  have 
expressed  the  delight  and  unwearied  admiration  they  have  felt  in 
the  perusal  of  its  endless  volumes. 

It  may  be  assumed  that  it  is  one  of  the  most  ancient  books  of 
Arabian  literature ;  composed  during  the  second  century  of  the 

M 


178  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


Hijrah,  at  a  time  when  the  arts  were  most  successfully  cultivated 
amongst  the  Asiatic  conquerors,  and  encouraged  more  particularly 
under  the  influence  of  the  Arab  princes  of  Bagdad.  Its  language 
is  therefore  uncommonly  pure,  equally  remote  from  the  harshness 
of  the  earlier,  or  the  conceits  of  the  later,  authors ;  and  when  we 
consider  that  it  was  originally  written  in  the  Cufic  character,  and 
has  for  a  thousand  years  been  transcribed  chiefly  for  the  use  of 
the  Bedouins,  and  often  by  persons  who  probably  did  not  com- 
prehend one  word  they  were  writing,  it  is  a  matter  of  surprise 
how  it  has  retained  so  much  purity  and  correctness.  Some  few 
Persian  and  Turkish  words,  subject  to  Arabic  inflexions,  are  now 
and  then  to  be  observed ;  some  other  modem  terms  may  also 
have  been  inserted.  These  are  corruptions;  and  M.  Hammer 
thinks  that  many  interpolations  have  been  made  by  the  copyist 
Words  often  occur  which  are  not  to  be  found  in  any  dictionary ; 
and  some  expressions  there  are,  which,  though  current  to  this 
day  among  the  Arabs  of  the  Desert,  are  not  susceptible  of  the 
same  acceptation  in  any  lexicon. 

The  style  of  the  work  as  a  composition  is  very  plain  and  easy 
in  construction ;  but  abounding  in  an  endless  variety  of  diction, 
couched  in  the  most  choice  and  appropriate  terms.  The  sentences 
are  short,  mi^ch  in  the  style  of  the  Bible ;  the  prose  is  even  in 
rhythm  throughout,  continuing  uninterrupted  but  by  a  change  of 
termination,  according  to  the  powers  of  the  author,  or  the  re- 
dundancy  of  expressions  with  the  same  sound ; — this  is  reckoned 
the  greatest  beauty  in  Oriental  compositions.  Thus,  with  short 
rhythmical  periods  of  various  lengths,  the  author  proceeds,  for 
five  or  six  lines,  to  the  end  of  his  subject,  and  then  recommences 
other  matter  with  a  different  rhyme.  This  is  particularly  striking 
in  all  his  descriptions  of  battles,  where  the  pauses  are  very 
frequent,  all  with  the  same  terminations ;  the  periods  being  often 
formed  of  only  two  words,  sometimes  of  three,  and  thus  hurrying 
on,  with  apparent  rapidity  and  great  variety  and  spirit,  through- 
out a  whole  page. 

This  species  of  composition  produces  the  necessity  of  continued 
repetitions ;  and  though  Asma*ee  has  proved  that  his  memory  was 


FROM  THE  TRANSLATORS  PREFACE,       179 


supplied  with  an  infinity  of  expression,  unrivalled  by  any  Oriental 
anthor,  yet  the  frequent  recurrence  of  similar  scenes  and  thoughts 
must  of  course  occasion  such  repetitions  as  almost  to  weary  his 
warmest  admirers ;  but  when  translated  into  another  tongue  that 
admits  of,  comparatively  speaking,  no  diversity  of  terms  to  express 
the  same  meaning,  they  become  most  tedious  and  disgusting. 

The  poetry  has  the  charm  of  a  more  elevated  style ;  and  a 
wider  range  for  the  imagination  has  been  eagerly  seized  by  the 
poet.  Infinitely  more  difficult  in  its  construction,  it  is  still 
natural,  and  devoid  of  those  conceits  and  absurdities  that  abound 
in  almost  all  Asiatic  compositions.  It  comprises  every  variety  to 
which  poetry  is  applied.  The  heroic,  the  complimentary,  the 
laudatory,  the  amatory,  the  ludicrous,  the  merry,  the  elegiac,  are 
all  combined  in  the  utmost  profusion ;  even  the  pastoral  is  not 
omitted.     .     .     . 

The  heroic  is,  of  course,  a  mixture  of  all  that  is  bold  in  imagery 
and  inflated  in  expression ;  exaggeration  and  personal  vanity  run 
throughout  the  whole :  perhaps  these  are  the  legitimate  character- 
istics of  such  poetry ;  certainly  we  have  the  highest  authority  for 
its  currency  in  a  poet  whose  writings  are  considered  as  the 
standard  for  whatever  is  grand  and  majestical  in  that  species  of 
poetical  composition. 

The  elegiac  has  drawn  tears  from  persons  whose  S3nnpathies 
and  tenderness  were  fashioned  to  be  roused  by  such  scenes  as  are 
described  in  this  work,  and  are  therefore  as  true  to  nature  as  those 
feelings  which  are  recognised  in  a  more  refined  state  of  society. 

The  ludicrous  and  satirical  are  in  some  instances  too  gross, 
often  indelicate,  but  not  obscene.  There  is  something  pretty  and 
original  in  the  amatory  style ;  and  the  merry  can  move  to  mirth 
in  its  innocence  and  plajrfulness.  As  to  the  complimentary,  it  is, 
as  is  the  case  in  all  languages,  the  least  entitled  to  commendation, 
abounding  in  ridiculous  conceits  and  unintelligible  panegyric. 

With  respect  to  the  magic  and  enchantments  that  occur  in  the, 
work,  it  may  be  proper  to  add,  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
indulge  in  the  still  controverted  point  of  the  birth-place  of 
sorcery,  that  instances  are  to  be  found  of  supernatural  agency ; 


i8o  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


though  in  the  portion  now  published  no  mention  is  made  of  any 
such  influence  over  the  minds  and  actions  of  the  heroes  who  figure 
in  the  story.  The  belief  that  ghosts,  or  hobgoblins,  or  genii, 
inhabited  some  peculiar  spot  generally  prevailed ;  and  we  perceive 
that  Shiboob,  Antar*s  brother,  is  often  taken  for  one  of  those 
august  personages,  owing  to  the  rapidity  with  which  he  transfers 
himself  from  place  to  place. 

The  effects  of  an  amulet  ring  (first  worn  by  a  Christian  wairior, 
who  at  his  death  bequeaths  it  to  Antar),  in  relieving  a  peison  from 
fits,  are  noticed  more  than  once.  Sorceresses  were  also  sufficiently 
celebrated,  even  at  that  distant  period,  to  be  here  recorded :  more 
for  the  iniquities  than  for  the  good  they  were  called  upon  to  per- 
form. One  endeavours  to  inveigle  Abla  to  her  destiuction,  by 
means  of  two  daemon  emissaries  she  employs,  and  a  magic  fire 
she  kindles.  Another  fortifies  her  castle  with  the  illusion  of 
supernatural  flames  and  smoke ;  whilst  the  sister  of  this  wicked 
enchantress  dispels  these  seeming  horrors  by  her  more  potent 
spells.     .     .     . 

Allusions  to  genii  frequently  occur :  one  of  Antar's  sons  is 
skin  by  them.  They  are  described  as  most  hideous  monsters, 
having  their  eyes  slit  upwards,  and  uttering  most  terrific  sounds. 
Antar  restores  to  the  human  form  one  of  the  genii  who  had  been 
metamorphosed  into  a  horse ;  and,  in  return,  he  aids  his  deliverer 
in  avenging  his  son's  murder.  .  .  .  Antar's  sword  is  certainly 
of  original  manufacture ;  and,  though  not  enchanted,  may  be 
cited  by  the  side  of  Durindana.  Indian  blades,  Davidean  armour^ 
and  Aadite  casques  are  invested  with  all  the  properties  of  magic 
weapons,  whether  of  offence  or  defence.  •  .  .  The  frequent 
allusion  to  dragons  and  sea  monsters  in  the  poetry,  and  in  the 
description  of  assailing  heroes,  proves  that  in  those  days  the 
introduction  of  fabulous  animals,  distinct  from  those  mentioned 
in  Persian  books,  was  considered  a  Intimate  embellishment  in 
romantic  fiction.     .     .     . 

And  thus,  with  all  the  paraphernalia  of  chivalrous  equipment, 
heroes  come  forth,  not  only  in  fields  of  battle,  or  in  single  com- 
bat, but  also  at  marriages  and  entertainments,  merely  for  trials  of 


FROM  THE  TRANSLATOR'S  PREFACE.       i8i 


skill  in  arms  in  the  niidst  of  a  course,  to  tilt  and  joust  with  barb- 
less  spears  in  the  presence  of  kings  and  chiefs,  who  proclaim  the 
merits  of  the  victor  and  the  vanquished  ;  sometimes  distributing 
prizes,  or  awarding  a  contested  point,  or  even  deciding  the  late 
of  some  damsel,  the  object  of  amorous  contention  between  two 
devoted  champions;  and  not  unfrequently  do  these  combats, 
which  commence  innocently,  end  in  bloodshed. 

It  is  also  worthy  of  remark,  that  these  chiefs,  when  bound  on 
a  marauding  enterprise,  often  meet  with  extraordinary  adventures : 
sometimes  forlorn  maidens,  whose  distresses  they  relieve;  or 
matrons,  whose  husbands  and  sons  have  been  slain ;  and  even 
heroes  of  inferior  stamp,  whose  cause  they  will  adopt,  and  thus 
either  soften  his  sorrows  or  die  in  his  defence.  It  must  be 
acknowledged  that  they  sometimes  take  advantage  of  the  un- 
protected state  to  which  females  are  reduced,  when  their  attend- 
ants have  resisted  the  assaults  of  a  stranger  ;  but  instances  of  the 
purest  generosity,  and  the  most  chivalrous  sentiments  of  honour 
and  decency,  will  often  mark  their  acts,  and  induce  us  to  marvel 
how  nations  so  barbarous  in  blood  could  ever  be  melted  into 
pity  and  tenderness. 

...  A  nation  of  shepherds,  dwelling  in  tents,  surrounded 
by  deserts,  appears,  at  first  sight,  as  the  very  antipodes  of 
those  nations  whose  usages  and  habits  have  supplied  matter  for 
romance  and  historic  fiction.  In  minds  thus  savagely  constituted, 
where  could  love  dwell  ?  Where  could  courtesy,  discretion,  and 
those  nameless  decencies  and  distinctions,  persons  of  cultivated 
manners  can  only  feel  and  express,  find  a  place  ?  And  without 
minds  thus  happily  organised,  and  without  sensibilities  as  easily 
roused  as  lasting,  pliant  or  obdurate,  according  to  the  object  that 
excites  them  into  action,  or  bidding  defiance  to  repulse,  incon- 
stancy, and  danger — how  could  chivalry  feed  its  enthusiasm,  or 
imagination  awaken  into  life  ? 

But  in  this  work  we  find  all  these  anomalies  reconciled.  We 
see  heroes  capable  of  the  wildest  enterprises,  and  subject  to  the 
most  vehement  emotions,  to  secure  the  approbation  of  their 
mistresses.      We  see  damsels  braving  every  peril,  smiling  in 


l82  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


captivity,  to  meet  the  objects  of  their  love.  We  moreover 
meet  with  heroines  cased  in  armour  covering  hearts  at  once 
steeled  against  the  lance's  point  or  falchion's  edge,  and  a  prey 
to  the  utmost  ecstasies  of  enthusiastic  fondness  and  refined 
irritability. 

Such  are  the  personages  who  are  found  to  have  inhabited 
the  wilderness  of  sands,  under  no  cultivation  of  mind,  and 
bound  liy  no  moral  restraints,  but  what  love  and  friendship 
excited  and  established.  Few  could  read  or  write.  None  were 
philosophers — wisdom  had  its  only  support  in  the  influence 
attached  to  advanced  years.  Their  sages  were  superior  in  age, 
and  enjoyed  a  confidence  among  the  tribes  that  no  one  could 
uproot,  and  which  Antar  only,  by  his  martial  prowess  and 
universally  admitted  superiority,  could  thwart. 


THE 


ROMANCE    OF    ANTAR. 


■4^ 


The   Hero's   Birth   and   Early  Years. 


I  EN  famous  horsemen  of  the  tribe  of  Abs  went  forth 
from  the  land  of  Shurebah  on  a  plundering  ex- 
pedition. They  travelled  by  night,  and  lay  concealed 
during  the  day ;  and  when  they  reached  the  country 
of  Cahtan,  in  a  vaUey  between  two  hills  they  discovered  the 
6ourishing  tribe  of  Jezreela.  Fearing  openly  to  attack  a  pec^le 
so  numerous  and  powerful,  they  proceeded  to  their  pasture  ground^ 
where  they  saw  a  large  herd  of  camels  grazing,  and  a  black  woman 
of  great  beauty  and  fine  proportions,  with  her  two  children,  in 
charge  of  them.  They  seized  the  woman  and  her  children,  and 
drove  away  the  camels ;  but  had  not  gone  far  when  they  were 
pursued  by  the  warriors  of  the  tribe,  upon  whom  they  turned, 
and  afler  a  fierce  contest,  compelled  them  to  fly.  Returning 
home,  the  Absians,  having  arrived  in  their  own  country,  sat 
down  by  the  bank  of  a  stream  to  divide  their  plunder.  One  of 
the  party,  Shedad,  the  son  of  Carad,  known  as  the  Knight  of 
Jirwet,  from  the  celebrated  mare  of  that  name  which  he  rode, 
was  become  so  enamoured  of  the  black  woman,  whose  name  was 
Zebeebah,  that  he  chose  her  and  her  two  boys — ^Jereer  and 


i84  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


Shiboob — for  his  share,  leaving  to  his  companions  all  the  camels 
and  other  property. 

In  course  of  time  Zebeebah  gave  birth  to  a  boy,  "black  and 
swarthy  as  an  elephant, — his  shape,  limbs,  form,  and  make 
resembled  Shedad,"  who  was  delighted  to  look  upon  him  for 
days  together,  and  called  him  Antar.  As  the  boy  grew  up  he 
became  noted  for  his  great  strength  and  courage.  He  accom- 
panied his  mother  to  the  pasture,  and  helped  her  in  watching  the 
cattle.  One  day,  when  he  was  but  ten  years  old,  he  slew  a  wolf 
that  had  dispersed  the  flocks,  and  carried  home  the  head  and  legs 
of  the  beast  in  a  basket,  and  presented  the  trophies  of  his  prowess 
to  his  mother.  On  hearing  of  this  adventure  Shedad  cautioned 
his  son  not  to  stray  far  into  the  desert,  lest  he  should  meet  with 
some  mischief.  But  Antar  was  not  to  be  restrained :  riding 
about  the  country,  and  hurling  his  reed-spear  at  the  trunks  of 
trees,  he  soon  became  an  excellent  horseman,  and  could  throw 
the  javelin  with  unerring  precision.  And  thus  passed  the  early 
years  of  Antar  the  son  of  Shedad,  until  an  incident,  strikingly 
characteristic  of  Bedouin  life,  occurred,  which  proved  the  turning 
point  of  the  future  hero's  career : 

**  Now  King  Zoheir  had  two  hundred  slaves  that  tended  his 
herds  of  he  and  she-camels,  and  all  his  sons  had  the  same.  Shas 
was  the  eldest  of  his  sons,  and  heir  to  his  possessions ;  and 
Shas  had  a  slave  whose  name  was  Daji,  and  he  was  a  great 
bully.  Shas  was  very  fond  of  him  on  account  of  his  vast  bodily 
strength ;  and  there  was  not  a  slave  but  feared  him  and  trembled 
before  him  :  Antar,  however,  made  no  account  of  him,  and  did 
not  care  for  him. 

'*One  day  the  poor  men,  and  widows,  and  orphans  met  togethert 
and  were  driving  their  camels  and  their  flocks  to  drink,  and  were 
all  standing^by  the  water-side.  Daji  came  up  and  stopped  them, 
and  took  possession  of  the  water  for  his  master's  cattle.  Just 
then  an  old  woman  belonging  to  the  tribe  of  Abs  came  up  to  him, 
and  accosted  him  in  a  suppliant  manner,  saying :  *  Be  so  good, 
master  Daji,  as  to  let  my  cattle  drink ;  they  are  all  the  property 
I  possess,  and  I  live  by  their  milk.     Pity  my  flock  :  have  com- 


THE  HERaS  BIRTH  AND  EARLY  YEARS.    185 

passion  on  me  and  grant  my  request,  and  let  them  drink.'  But 
he  paid  no  attention  to  her  demand,  and  abused  her.  She  was 
greatly  distressed,  and  shrunk  back. 

'*  Then  came  another  old  woman  and  addressed  him :  '  O  master 
Daji,  I  am  a  poor  weak  old  woman,  as  you  see  :  time  has  dealt 
hardly  with  me — ^it  has  aimed  its  arrows  at  me ;  and  its  daily  and 
nightly  calamities  have  destroyed  all  my  men.  I  have  lost  my 
children  and  my  husband,  and  since  then  I  have  been  in  great 
distress.  These  sheep  are  all  I  possess  :  let  them  drink,  for  I  live 
on  the  milk  they  produce.  Pity  my  forlorn  state ;  I  have  no  one 
to  tend  them  ;  therefore  grant  my  request,  and  be  so  kind  as  to  let 
them  drink.'  . 

"As  soon  as  Daji  heard  these  words,  and  perceived  the  crowd 
of  women  and  men,  his  pride  increased,  and  his  obstinacy  was 
not  to  be  moved,  but  he  struck  the  woman  on  the  stomach,  and 
threw  her  down  on  her  back,  and  uncovered  her  nakedness, 
whilst  all  the  slaves  laughed  at  her.  When  Antar  perceived  what 
had  occurred,  his  pagan  pride  played  throughout  all  his  limbs, 
and  he  could  not  endure  the  sight.  He  ran  up  to  the  slave,  and 
calling  out,  'You  bastard ! '  said  he,  '  what  mean  you  by  this  dis- 
gusting action  ?  Do  you  dare  to  violate  an  Arab  woman  ?  May 
God  destroy  your  limbs,  and  all  that  consented  to  this  act ! ' 

''When  the  slave  heard  what  Antar  said,  he  almost  fainted 
from  indignation  :  he  met  him,  and  struck  him  a  blow  over  the 
face  that  nearly  knocked  out  his  eyes.  Antar  waited  till  he  had 
recovered  from  the  blow,  and  his  senses  returned  ;  he  then  ran  at 
the  slave,  and  seizing  him  by  one  of  the  legs,  threw  him  on  his 
back.  He  thrust  one  hand  under  his  thighs,  and  with  the  other 
he  grasped  his  neck,  and  raising  him  by  the  force  of  his  arm,  he 
dashed  him  against  the  ground.  And  his  length  and  breadth 
were  all  one  mass.  When  the  deed  was  done  his  fiiry  was  un- 
bounded, and  he  roared  aloud  even  as  a  lion.  And  when  the 
slaves  perceived  the  fate  of  Daji,  they  shrieked  out  to  Antar, 
saying,  '  You  have  slain  the  slave  of  Prince  Shas !  What  man 
on  earth  can  now  protect  you  ? '  They  attacked  him  with  staves 
and  stones,  but  he  resisted  them  all :  he  rushed  with  a  loud  yell 


i86  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

upon  them,  and  proved  himself  a  hardy  warrior,  and  dealt 
among  them  with  his  stick  as  a  hero  with  his  sword.  *' 

With  all  his  courage  and  strength,  however,  Antar  was  likely 
to  have  fallen  a  victim  to  the  rage  of  his  assailants,  when  fortu- 
nately Prince  Malik,  one  of  the  King's  sons,  beloved  by  all  for  his 
mild  and  gentle  disposition,  came  upon  the  scene,  and  put  an  end 
to  the  unequal  contest ;  and  on  learning  its  occasion,  promised 
Antar  his  protection.  When  King  Zoheir  was  informed  of  what 
the  hero  had  done,  he  warmly  applauded  his  conduct,  saying : 
"  This  valiant  fellow  has  defended  the  honour  of  women ;  he  will 
shine  a  noble  warrior,  and  destroy  his  opponents."  And  on 
Antar's  return  home  that  day,  the  women  all  crowded  round  hinit 
praising  him  for  his  gallant  behaviour;  and  among  them  was 
Antar's  fair  cousin  Abla,  the  daughter  of  Malik,  his  father 
Shedad's  brother. 

The  Dawn  of  Love, 

Antar  had  frequent  opportunities  of  seeing  Abla,  one  of  his 
duties  being  to  serve  the  women  of  his  father's  and  uncles' 
families  with  the  camel's  milk  which,  previously  cooled  in  the 
wind,  it  was  the  custom  of  Arab  women  to  drink  every  morning 
and  evening.  Coming  into  his  uncle  Malik's  tent  one  day  while 
Abla's  long  flowing  hair  was  being  dressed  by  her  mother,  Antar's 
soul  was  filled  with  the  image  of  her  beauty,  and  when  he  retired 
he  thus  expressed  his  feelings  : 

That  fair  maid  lets  down  her  ringlets,  and  she  is 
completely  hid  in  her  hair,  which  appears  like  the 
dark  shades  of  night. 

It  is  as  if  she  were  the  brilliant  day,  and  as  if  the 
night  had  enveloped  her  in  obscurity. 

It  is  as  if  the  full  moon  was  shining  in  its  splendour, 
and  all  the  stars  were  concealed  by  its  lustre. 


THE  DAWN  OF  LOVE.  187 

Her  chaims  bewitch  all  around  her,  and  all  are 
anxious  to  oifer  their  services : 

They  live  in  her  beauties  and  loveliness ;  and  they 
are  imbued  with  sweetness  from  her  perfections,  and 
receive  new  spirit  from  her  graces. 

Revile  me  not  for  my  love  of  her,  for  I  am  dis- 
tracted for  her,  and  live  but  as  the  victim  of  my  love. 

I  will  conceal  my  affectipn  in  my  soul,  till  I  can  see 
that  I  am  sufficiently  fortunate  one  day  to  serve  her. 

And  on  another  occasion,  seeing  Abla  plapng  and  singing 
among  other  maidens  at  a  feast,  Antar  addressed  her  in  eloquent 
verses: 

The  lovely  virgin  has  struck  my  heart  with  the  arrow 
of  a  glance,  for  which  there  is  no  cure. 

Sometimes  she  wishes  for  a  feast  in  the  sand-hills, 
like  a  fawn  whose  eyes  are  full  of  magic. 

My  disease  preys  on  me ;  it  is  in  my  entrails :  I 
conceal  it ;  but  its  very  concealment  discloses  it. 

She  moves :  I  should  say  it  was  the  branch  of  the 
tamarisk,  that  waves  its  branches  to  the  southern 
breeze. 

She  approaches :  I  should  say  it  was  the  frightened 
&wn,  when  a  calamity  alarms  it  in  the  waste. 

She  walks  away :  I  should  say  her  face  was  truly  the 
sun  when  its  lustre  dazzles  the  beholders. 

She  gazes :  I  should  say  it  was  the  full  moon  of  the 
night  when  Orion  girds  it  with  its  stars. 

She  smiles :  and  the  pearls  of  her  teeth  sparkle,  in 
which  there  is  the  cure  for  the  sickness  of  lovers. 


i8S  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

She  prostrates  herself  in  reverence  towards  her  God; 
and  the  greatest  of  men  bow  down  to  her  beauties. 

O  Abla !  when  I  most  despair,  love  for  thee  and  all 
its  weaknesses  are  my  only  hope  ! 

Should  fortune  or  my  &ther  assist  me,  I  will  requite 
myself  for  its  vicissitudes  by  my  fearless  spirit 

Love  had  now  become  the  master-passion  of  the  hero's  soul ; 
for  all  his  subsequent  exploits  as  a  warrior  were  undertaken  and 
performed  mainly  with  the  view  of  raising  himself  above  the 
circumstance  of  his  birth,  and  of  becoming  worthy  of  his  cousin. 
But  already  Antar  had  many  bitter  enemies  among  his  own 
people,  who  sought  every  means  of  depriving  him  of  the  favour 
and  protection  of  King  Zoheir,  and  of  his  son  Prince  Malik. 
Wandering  one  day  fieir  from  the  tents  of  his  tribe,  and  brooding 
over  his  forlorn  condition  and  his  love  for  Abla,  he  composed  the 
following  verses : 

Abla's  spirit  appeared  to  me  in  my  sleep,  and  thrice 
I  kissed  her  within  her  veil 

It  bade  me  adieu,  but  it  deposited  in  me  a  flame 
that  I  feel  burning  through  my  bones. 

Were  I  not  left  in  solitude,  and  could  I  not  quench 
the  fire  of  my  passion  with  tears,  my  heart  would 
melt 

But  I  do  not  complain ;  though  all  my  fears  are  on 
thy  account,  O  thou  perfect  fVill  moon  ! 

O  daughter  of  Malik  1  how  can  I  be  consoled, 
since  my  love  for  thee  originated  from  the  time  I 
was  weaned? 

But  how  can  I  ever  hope  to  approach  thee,  whilst 
the  lions  of  the  forest  guard  thy  tent? 


EARLY  WARLIKE  EXPLOITS,  189 

By  the  truth  of  my  love  for  thee,  my  heart  can 
never  be  cured  but  by  patience. 

O  thou  noble  maid !  till  I  exalt  myself  to  the 
heights  of  glory  with  the  thrusts  of  my  spear,  and  the 
blows  of  my  sword,  I  will  expose  myself  to  every 
peril  wherever  the  spears  clash  in  the  battle-dust — 
then  shall  I  be  either  tossed  upon  the  spear-heads,  or 
be  numbered  among  the  noble. 

Early  Warlike  Exploits. 

King  Zoheir  having  summoned  Shedad,  the  father  of  Antar, 
with  his  other  warriors,  to  accompany  him  on  an  expedition 
against  a  neighbouring  tribe,  Antar  was  left  behind  in  charge  of 
the  women ;  and  here  follows  a  graphic  description  of  the  amuse- 
ments of  Arab  women  in  those  days : 

"The  horsemen  being  now  absent,  the  children,  and  women, 
and  slaves,  male  and  female,  were  left  behind.  Semeeah,  the 
wife  of  Shedad,  gave  a  magnificent  entertainment  at  the  lake  of 
Zatool  Irsad.  Sheep  were  slaughtered,  and  wine  flowed,  and 
the  girls  carried  their  instruments.  Antar  stood  amongst  the 
attendants,  and  was  in  transports  on  seeing  Abla  appear  with  the 
other  women.  She  was  indeed  like  an  amorous  fawn ;  she  was 
decorated  with  variegated  necklaces;  and  when  Antar  was 
attending  her,  he  was  overwhelmed  in  the  ocean  of  his  love,  and 
became  the  slave  of  her  sable  tresses.  They  sat  down  to  eat,  and 
the  wine-cups  went  merrily  round.  It  was  the  spring  of  the  year, 
when  the  whole  land  shone  in  all  its  gloiy :  the  vines  hung 
luxuriantly  in  the  arbours ;  the  flowers  shed  around  ambrosial 
fragrance ;  every  hillock  sparkled  in  the  beauty  of  its  colours  % 
the  birds  in  responsive  melody  sang  sweetly  from  each  bush,  and 
harmony  issued  from  their  throats ;  every  ear  was  enchanted ; 
the  ground  was  covered  with  flowers  and  herbs ;  whilst  the 
nightingales  filled  the  air  with  their  softest  notes.  Then  the 
damsels  beat  the  cymbals,  and  recited  the  following  verses  : 


190  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

The  shades  have  spread  their  canopy^  and  the  flowers 
spread  their  pillows. 

The  streams  roll  along  their  shores  of  flowers,  some 
white,  some  red,  some  yellow,  some  sweet-scented. 

See  the  waters  gliding  through  the  gardens ;  and  the 
trees  and  their  fruits  resemble  bracelets  and  chaplets ; 

The  birds  sing  melodiously  upon  them  in  every 
variety  of  note. 

The  nightingale  and  the  dove  pour  their  plaintive 
strain,  and  make  every  lover  weep. 

The  gentle  zephyrs  whisper  along,  and  the  branches 
move  in  softest  measure. 

The  boughs  dance  in  the  groves,  among  the  trees, 
in  the  graceful  movement 

The  dew-drops  fall,  and  the  flowers  and  the  trees 
are  studded  with  its  pearls. 

The  season  is  delightful;  let  it  pass  in  enjoyment 
and  misfortunes,  begone  1 

The  opportimit}'  is  delicious ;  let  us  grasp  in  haste 
its  sweets : 

Be  merry,  and  wild  with  joy,  and  let  not  a  day  pass 
without  amusement. 

*'  Then  another  set  took  the  musical  instruments,  and  beating 
the  cymbals  with  their  hands,  thus  sang  : — 

The  gardens  sparkle  with  all  they  boast  of  lovely 

damsels  \ 
Every  sportive  virgin   is   possessed   of  languishing 

glances,  and  enchanting  movements  : 
Their  beauty  is  perfection — they  are  loveliness  itself; 


EARLY  WARLIKE  EXPLOITS,  191 

Their  elegant  shapes  glance  like  the  well-proportioned 

spears ; 
Their  tresses  float  down  their  backs,  like  branches  of 

the  grape-vine ; 
They  are  slayers  and  piercers  with  their  arrows  and 

their  darts — 
Archers  and  strikers — the  enchantresses  of  men. 

**  They  now  formed  a  dance  and  took  off  their  robes :  the 
damsels  danced  while  the  servants  sang,  and  carried  round  the 
goblets  of  wine.  Roses  were  spread  over  their  cheeks,  and  their 
bosoms  heaved.  And  Abla  joined  her  associates  in  the  dance, 
and  exhibited  her  charms,  and  laughed.  Fire  shot  from  their 
eyes,  and  the  cups  of  wine  were  united  to  the  honey  of  their 
mouths.  The  imagination  of  Antar  was  inflamed  and  over- 
powered in  the  sea  of  anxiety ;  he  hesitated  whether  he  should 
violate  the  modesty  of  love  by  the  fingers  of  passion,  when  lo  ! 
on  a  sudden  there  appeared  a  doud  of  dust ;  and  a  vast  clamour 
arose,  and  in  a  moment  there  came  forth  a  troop  of  horses  and 
their  riders,  about  seventy  in  number,  armed  with  cuirasses,  and 
coats  of  mail,  and  Aadite  helmets,  crying  out,  'O  by  Cahtan !'  and 
rushed  towards  the  women.  At  the  instant  joy  was  converted 
into  grief,  and  smiles  into  tears :  in  a  moment  they  seized  the 
women  and  the  virgins,  made  them  prisoners,  and  placed  them 
on  their  horses  behind  them." 

Antar,  however,  was  not  the  man  to  stand  by  and  allow  the 
enemy  thus  to  ravish  his  fair  charges  before  his  eyes.  To  rush 
after  and  overtake  the  horseman  who  had  captured  Abla, 
and  to  hurl  him  a  lifeless  and  shapeless  mass  on  the  ground,  and 
to  take  possession  of  his  horse  and  armour,  was  to  Antar  mere 
child's  play.  Then  he  overtook  the  rest  of  the  enemy,  and  with 
his  single  arm  performed  such  wonders,  that  those  who  escaped 
the  stroke  of  his  death-dealing  sword  fled  in  dismay,  leaving  the 
women  and  the  plunder  they  had  taken. 


192  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

This  was  Antar's  first  warlike  exploit ;  and  when  King  Zoheir 
returned,  and  heard  of  his  prowess,  he  publicly  praised  him,  and 
presented  him  with  a  robe  of  honour. 

Shortly  afterwards  Antar  put  to  flight  a  large  party  of  a  hostile 
tribe  that  had  surrounded  the  King's  scms  and  their  attendants ; 
and  this  was  his  song  of  triumph  as  the  hero  returned  to  his  tent: 

I  WILL  not  cease  to  exalt  myself  by  my  deeds,  till  I 
reach  Orion  in  my  ambitious  projects. 

Here  I  care  not  for  those  who  abuse  me,  fearful  of 
death  and  separation  from  life. 

But  I  will  reduce  my  foes  and  my  railers  by  force, 
and  I  will  be  patient  under  sufferings  and  in  praise. 

I  will  strive  to  attain  what  I  desire,  till  Death 
snatch  me  away. 

I  will  arm  my  mind  against  worldly  lusts,  that  I 
may  be  considered  noble-minded  and  faithfiiL 

Whoever  would  check  me,  let  him  look  to  himself, 
where'er  he  may  be  concealed. 

My  complexion  is  no  injury  to  me,  nor  the  name 
of  2^beebah,  when  I  exercise  my  courage  amongst 
the  foe. 

I  will  work  wonders  and  marvels;  and  I  will 
protect  myself  from  the  tongues  of  the  wicked. 

The  King  was  naturally  grateful  for  the  good  service  which 
Antar  had  thus  rendered,  and  at  a  grand  feast  held  in  celebrati(» 
of  the  escape  of  the  princes,  he  caused  the  hero  to  sit  beside 
him,  and  commanded  Shedad  no  longer  to  employ  his  son  as  s 
keeper  of  camels,  but  to  allow  him  to  take  rank  among  the 
warriors  of  the  tribe. 


ANTAR  AND  ABLAS  MOTHER.  193 


Antar  and  Abla's  Motheb. 

Antar  was  now  become  celebrated  for  his  verses  as  well  as  for 
his  remarkable  strength  and  courage ;  and,  as  may  be  readily 
supposed,  he  was  making  considerable  progress  in  winning  the 
affection  of  his  beloved  Abla.  But  in  the  eyes  of  the  maiden's 
father,  Malik,  he  was  far  from  being  a  desirable  match  ;  and  even 
her  mother  ridiculed  Antar*s  amorous  poetry,  and  his  love  for  her 
daughter.  One  day  she  sneeringly  asked  him  to  recite  some  of 
his  verses  about  Abla,  and  he  thus  complied  : 

I  LOVE  thee  with  the  love  of  a  noble-born  hero ; 
and  I  am  content  with  thy  imaginary  phantom. 

Thou  art  ray  sovereign  in  my  very  blood,  and  my 
mistress ;  and  in  thee  is  all  my  confidence. 

O  Abla,  my  description  cannot  portray  thee,  for 
thou  comprehendest  every  perfection. 

Were  I  to  say  thy  face  is  like  the  full  moon  of 
heaven — where,  in  that  full  moon,  is  the  eye  of  the 
antelope  ? 

Were  I  to  say  thy  shape  is  like  the  branch  of  the 
erak  tree :  O  thou  shamest  it  in  the  grace  of  thy  form. 

In  thy  forehead  is  my  guide  to  truth ;  and  in  the 
night  of  thy  tresses  I  wander  astray. 

Thy  teeth  resemble  stringed  jewels ;  but  how  can  I 
liken  them  to  lifeless  pearls  ? 

Thy  bosom  is  created  as  an  enchantment ; — O  may 
God  protect  it  ever  in  that  perfection  ! 

To  be  connected  with  thee  is  to  be  connected  with 
every  joy;  but  separated  from  all  my  world  is  the 
bond  of  thy  connection. 

N 


1 


194  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR. 


Under  thy  veil  is  the  rosebud  of  my  life,  and  thine 
eyes  are  guarded  with  a  multitude  of  arrows :  round 
thy  tent  is  a  lion-warrior,  the  sword's  edge,  and  the 
spear's  point. 

O  thy  face  is  like  the  full  moon  of  heaven,  allied  to 
light,  but  far  from  my  hopes  ! 

f     These  eloquent  verses  so  far  mollified  Abla's  mother  that  she 
proposed  marrying  Antar  to  her  daughter's  maid,  Khemisa. 

•*  No ! "  said  Antar,  boldly ;  "  I  shall  marry  only  a  free- 
born  woman :  and  no  one  shall  I  marry  but  her  whom  mj 
soul  adores ! " 

"May  God  accomplish  thy  wishes,"  whispered  Abla ;  "and 
may  he  grant  thee  the  woman  thou  lovest,  and  may  thou  live  in 
peace  and  happiness  ! " 

Antar  offeitds  his  Father. 

To  a  wedding  among  a  friendly  tnbe  Antar  had  the  honour  of 
escorting  a  party  of  Absian  women  of  rank,  among  whom  was 
the  fair  Abla,  with  their  attendants.  On  the  way  thither  some 
brigands  attack  them,  but  Antar,  crying,  "  O  by  Abs  !  I  am  ever 
the  lover  of  Abla  !  '*  dealt  his  sword-blows  among  the  enemy  to 
such  good  purpose  that  many  were  slain,  and  the  rest  fled  in 
dismay.  The  return  of  the  party  from  the  wedding  feast  furnished 
the  hero  with  further  opportunities  for  the  display  of  his  prowess; 
and  after  encountering  several  hostile  parties,  and  killing  many 
renowned  horsemen,  Antar  brings  home  the  women  of  Abs  in 
safety  and  in  triumph. 

Shedad  naturally  exulted  in  the  fame  of  his  slave-son,  and  even 
declared  his  intention  of  ennobling  Antar  forthwith  ;  but  he  was 
dissuaded  from  this  by  his  brother  Malik,  who  threatened  to  quit 
the  tribe  should  Antar  be  raised  above  the  condition  of  a  slave. 
And  one  night,  when  Antar,  emboldened  with  wine,  presented 


THE  HORSE  ABJER.  195 


himself  before  his  father,  and  demanded  the  rank  of  an  Arab 
chief,  Shedad  was  enraged  at  his  presumption  and  threatened  to 
kill  him.  Antar  seeks  the  counsel  and  protection  of  his  friend 
Prince  Malik,  who  expresses  his  regret  that  he  should  thus 
have  offended  his  father.  There  is  a  deal  of  nature  in  Antar's 
reply :  "  Do  not,  my  lord,  reprove  my  ambition,  which  often 
robs  me  of  my  wits  and  discretion  ;  but  had  I  not  been  intoxi- 
cated, this  would  not  have  happened,  and  I  should  have  concealed 
my  wishes,  and  submitted  patiently  to  my  misfortunes  till  death 
had  overtaken  me.  But  in  all  circumstances,  thou  art  my  master. 
Ah,  my  lord  !  "  continued  he,  **  how  often  have  I  relieved  them 
from  their  foes,  and  no  one  ever  assisted  me  !  Know,  too,  that 
I  love  Abla,  the  daughter  of  my  uncle  Malik,  and  she  drives  away 
sleep  from  my  eyelids,  and  in  my  sleepless  nights  I  am  united  to 
her  ;  but  my  father  Shedad  has  cut  off  all  my  hope,  and  mis- 
fortunes upon  misfortunes  overpower  me.  I  only  demanded  to 
be  recognised  as  his  son,  that  I  might  be  united  to  her ;  but  truly 
all  my  hopes  of  her  are  completely  destroyed.  No  joy  now 
remains  for  me,  and  the  light  of  the  day  is  the  darkness  of  night 
in  my  eyes.  I  have  no  home  but  among  the  wild  beasts  and 
the  reptiles  ! "  And  tears  gushed  from  the  eyes  of  the  hero  as 
he  expressed  his  anguish  and  passion. 

The  Prince  endeavoured  to  soothe  Antar's  distress,  by  the 
promise  of  his  influence  and  protection,  and  Antar  remained  all 
that  night  with  Prince  Malik. 

How  Antar  obtained  his  horse  Abjer. 

At  daybreak  Antar  stole  out  of  the  Prince's  tent,  and  mounting 
his  horse,  wandered  into  the  desert,  where  he  chanced  to  meet 
forty  Absian  horsemen,  led  by  Ghegadh  the  son  of  Nasshib,  bent 
on  a  marauding  enterprise.  Antar  joins  them,  and  the  Absians 
proceed  to  the  land  of  Cahtan,  where  they  saw  "  a  great  quantity 
of  cattle,  with  some  high  raised  tents  and  lofty  pavilions  ;  many 
horses  running  about  and  camels  grazing;  and  the  people  unsus- 
picious of  a  reverse  of  fortune."    Antar,  while  his  companions 


196  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


were  engaged  in  plundering  the  tents,  drove  away  the  cattle,  and 
had  proceeded  some  distance,  when  he  discovered  a  knight* 
"  mounted  on  a  dark-coloured  colt,  beautiful  and  compact ;  and 
it  was  of  a  race  much  prized  by  the  Arabs :  his  hoofs  were  as  flat 
as  the  beaten  coin  ;  when  he  neighed  he  seemed  as  if  about  to 
speak ;  and  his  ears  like  quills :  his  sire  was  Wasil,  and  his  dam 
Hemama."  Perceiving  the  beauty  and  speed  of  the  horse,  Antar 
eagerly  longed  for  it,  and  pursued  the  rider  till  simset,  when  the 
strange  knight  stopped,  and  Antar,  coming  up  to  him,  made 
overtures  for  the  purchase  of  the  beautiful  steed.  The  knight, 
however,  would  only  part  with  it  in  exchange  for  the  cattle  taken 
fron^his  tribe,  to  which  Antar  very  readily  agreed ;  and  thus  he  be- 
came possessed  of  Abjer,  the  famous  horse  on  which  he  performed 
so  many  wonderful  exploits. 

A  Bridal  Party  Attacked. 

Next  day  Antar  and  his  companions  meet  with  a  numerous 
bridal  party;  the  bride's  howdah — richly  ornamented  with 
velvet,  and  on  its  top  a  crescent  of  gold — ^was  preceded  by 
damsels  and  slaves  wearing  bright-coloured  robes,  and  behind 
came  a  troop  of  seventy  horsemen.  The  Absians  attack  the 
escort,  and  take  the  bride  prisoner.  But  while  Ghegadh  and 
the  others  are  disputing  with  Antar  about  his  share  of  the 
plunder,  the  father  of  the  damsel,  Yezid  the  son  of  Handhala, 
sumamed  the  Blood-drinker,  arrives,  with  300  warriors,  '*  In  a 
moment  swords  clashed  ;  every  heart  was  roused  :  heads  flew  off 
like  balls,  and  hands  like  leaves  of  trees.  The  Teyans  rushed 
upon  the  race  of  Abs ;  the  Blood-drinker  assailed  them  in  his 
courage,  and  released  his  daughter.  The  Absians  quitted  their 
])! under,  for  their  souls  could  not  stand  fire,  and  they  fled  over 
the  wilds."  Antar,  to  punish  his  sordid  companions,  had  thus 
far  remained  an  inactive  spectator  of  the  conflict,  but  seeing 
the  A])sians  give  way,  he  rushed  down  on  the  Teyans,  and  slew 
with  his  own  hand  eighty  of  their  bravest  warriors  ;  and  the  rest, 
with  the  renowned  Blood-drinker  and  his  daughter,  spread  them- 


ANTAI^S  DESCRIPTION  OF  ABLA,  197 

-selves  over  the  plain  and  escaped.  The  Absians  had  hardly 
returned  from  pursuing  the  Teyans,  when  Nakid,  the  husband 
of  the  bride,  came  up,  with  a  large  body  of  horsemen,  and  a 
fierce  battle  immediately  ensued.  The  tribe  of  Abs  were  over- 
powered, and  were  about  to  retreat,  when  An  tar  turned  the 
fortune  of  the  day,  by  encountering  and  slaying  Nakid. 

Meanwhile  King  Zoheir  had  sent  a  slave  in  search  of  Antar, 
who  returned  with  the  news  that  he  was  engaged  with  the 
tribe  of  Maan  in  deadly  conflict.  The  King  at  once  despatched 
his  son  Prince  Malik  with  a  party  of  warriors  to  Antar*s  assistance^ 
but  when  they  reached  him,  the  enemy  was  already  vanquished. 
Antar  and  Prince  Malik  then  returned  to  their  own  land,  and  as 
they  drew  near  the  tents  of  their  tribe  Antar  exclaimed  : 

When  the  breezes  blow  from  Mount  Saadi,  their 
freshness  calms  the  fire  of  my  love  and  transports. 

Let  my  tribe  remember  I  have  preserved  their  faith; 
but  they  feel  not  my  worth,  and  preserve  not  their 
engagements  with  me. 

Were  there  not  a  maid  settled  in  the  tents,  why 
should  I  prefer  their  society  to  absence? 

Slimly  made  is  she,  and  the  magic  influence  of  her 
eye  preserves  the  bones  of  a  corpse  from  entering  the 
tomb. 

The  sun,  as  it  sets,  turns  towards  her,  and  says: 
Darkness  obscures  the  land — do  thou  rise  in  my 
absence;  and  the  brilliant  moon  calls  out  to  her: 
Come  forth ! — ^for  thy  face  is  like  me  when  I  am  at 
the  full,  and  in  all  my  glory! 

The  tamarisk  trees  complain  of  her  in  the  mom 
and  the  eve,  and  say:  Away,  thou  waning  beauty, 
thou  form  of  the  laurel  I 


198  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

She  turns  away  abashed,  and  throws  aside  her 
veil,  and  the  roses  are  scattered  from  her  soft  fresh 
cheeks. 

She  draws  her  sword  from  the  glances  of  her  eye- 
lashes, sharp  and  penetrating  as  the  blade  of  her 
forefathers,  and  with  it  her  eyes  commit  murder, 
though  it  be  sheathed: 

Is  it  not  surprising  that  a  sheathed  sword  should 
be  so  sharp  against  its  victims? 

Graceful  is  every  limb;  slender  her  waist;  love- 
beaming  are  her  glances;   waving  is  her  form. 

The  damsel  passes  the  night  with  musk  under  her 
veil,  and  its  fragrance  is  increased  by  the  still  fresher 
essence  of  her  breath. 

The  lustre  of  Day  sparkles  from  her  forehead, 
and  by  the  dark  shades  of  her  curling  ringlets  Night 
itself  is  driven  away. 

When  she  smiles,  between  her  teeth  is  a  moisture, 
composed  of  wine,  of  rain,  and  of  honey. 

Her  throat  complains  of  the  darkness  of  her  neck- 
lace ; — alas !  alas  1  the  effects  of  that  throat  and  that 
necklace ! 

Will  fortune  ever,  O  daughter  of  Malik !  ever  bless 
me  with  thy  embrace,  that  would  cure  my  heart  of  the 
sorrows  of  love  ? 

If  my  eye  could  see  her  baggage-camels,  and  her 
fomily,  I  would  rub  my  cheeks  on  the  hoofs  of  her 
camels.  I  will  kiss  the  earth  where  thou  art ;  mayhap 
the  fire  of  my  love  and  ecstacy  may  be  quenched. 


PLOTS  AGAINST  THE  HERO.  199 


Shall  thou  and  I  ever  meet  as  formerly  on  Mount 
Saadi?  or  will  the  messenger  come  from  thee  to 
announce  thy  meeting?  or  will  he  relate  that  thou 
art  in  the  land  of  Nejd? 

Shall  we  meet  in  the  land  of  Shurebah  and  Hima, 
and  shall  we  live  in  joy  and  happiness? 

I  am  the  well-known  Antar,  the  chief  of  his  tribe, 
and  I  shall  die;  but  when  I  am  gone,  history  shall 
tell  of  me. 

King  Zoheir  and  the  chiefs  of  the  tribe  came  out  to  meet 
Antar,  and  congratulate  him  on  his  return.  The  hero,  after  the 
King  had  greeted  him  kindly,  ran  to  his  £aither  Shedad,  and 
asked  his  forgiveness ;  and  the  whole  tribe  were  astonished 
at  his  prowess. 

Plots  against  the  Hero. 

Old  Malik,  Antar*s  uncle,  and  his  faction  were,  however, 
more  than  ever  resolved  to  thwart  the  hero's  union  with  Abia ; 
and,  envious  of  the  honours  bestowed  on  him  by  the  King,  and 
enraged  at  his  presumption  in  professing  love  for  his  daughter, 
Malik  proposes  to  his  son  Amru  that  Antar  should  be  put  to 
death.  Other  and  more  formidable  enemies  lay  plans  for  his 
destruction.  Antar's  mother,  2^beebah,  in  the  simplicity  of  her 
heart,  advises  him  to  resume  his  old  occupation  of  tending  the 
flocks  and  the  camels,  and  no  longer  expose  his  life  to  perils. 
The  hero  smilingly  replies  that  she  should  yet  be  proud  of 
her  son. 

Prince  Shas  (who  had  never  forgiven  Antar  for  killing  his 
insolent  slave)  complains  to  his  father  of  his  favour  of  Antar,  and 
of  the  hero's  presumption  in  desiring  union  with  Abla.  King 
Zoheir  reproves  his  son  for  his  evident  ill-feeling  towards  the 
hero,  telling  him  that  it  may  be  decreed  of  God  that  Antar 


aoo  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

should  be  the  recipient  of  divine  favouis.  Antar,  overhearing 
this  conversation,  entered  the  tent,  and  thus  recited  : 

This  flame  is  for  Abla,  O  my  friend  1 — her  lustre 
illumines  the  darkest  night  She  blazes — ^her  form 
is  in  my  heart,  and  the  fire  of  love  is  in  my  souL 

Her  gently-waving  form  has  kindled  it  like  the 
branches  whose  motion  refreshes  the  breeze. 

Her  breath  diffuses  a  lively  odour,  and  in  her 
perfumes  I  pass  the  night  in  paradise. 

She  is  a  maid  whose  breath  is  sweeter  than  honey, 
whenever  she  sips  the  juice  of  the  grape. 

When  I  taste  a  coolness  from  her  lips,  she  leaves  in 
my  mouth  a  hot  burning  flame. 

The  moon  has  stolen  her  charms,  and  the  antelope 
has  borrowed  the  magic  of  her  eyes. 

O  grant  me  thy  embrace,  O  light  of  my  eyes !  and 
save  me  from  thy  absence,  and  mine  own  griefs. 

Be  just,  if  thou  wishest,  or  persecute  me:  for  in 
thee  is  my  paradise,  and  in  thee  is  my  hell. 

No  happiness  is  there  for  me  in  my  troubles,  but 
my  lord,  who  is  called  the  generous  2^heir. 

Wherever  he  goes  Death  anticipates  him ;  and  he 
destroys  his  foes  before  he  meets  them. 

Let  them  not  abuse  him  if  he  aid  a  solitary  creatuie, 
who  spends  the  live-long  night  without  sleep,  and  in 
tears. 

He  is  my  support  and  stay  against  those  who,  when 
they  see  my  exaltation,  would  trouble  me  the  more. 

He  is  a  king  to  whose  name  princes  shaU  bow,  and 
shall  point  at  him  to  pay  their  homage. 


ZOHEIR'S  GIFTS  TO  ANTAR.  201 


He  is  the  asylum  of  all  who  refer  to  him  to  dissipate 
their  sorrows,  as  he  relieves  my  griefs. 

May  fortune  never  deprive  me  of  ray  King  I  May 
he  ever  live  in  the  purest  joy  and  felicity ! 

The  King  courteously  thanked  Antar  for  his  verses,  and 
confessed  his  inability  to  adequately  reward  him — '*  even  were  I 
to  give  you  all  I  possess ;  for  my  property  will  pass  away,  as  if  it 
had  never  been;  but  thy  praises  will  endure  for  ever."  He 
presented  Antar  with  two  virgin  slaves,  beautiful  as  moons,  two 
rows  of  rare  jewels,  and  some  perfumes;  after  which  Antar  with- 
drew, and  going  to  the  tents  of  the  family  of  Carad,  found  the 
men  absent,  and  the  women  sitting  up  to  hear  an  account  of  his 
exploits,  and  the  fair  Abla  most  anxious  of  all ;  upon  which  he 
thus  addressed  them  : — 

Darkness  hovers  o'er,  and  my  tears  stream  down  in 
copious  torrents; — I  conceal  my  love,  and  complain  to 
no  one. 

I  pass  the  night,  regarding  the  stars  of  night  in  my 
distraction,  and  the  tears  rush  violently  from  my  eyes 
like  a  hail- storm. 

Ask  the  night  of  me,  and  it  will  tell  thee  that  I  am 
indeed  the  ally  of  sorrow  and  anguish. 

I  live  desolate ;  there  is  no  one  like  me :  a  lover 
without  friends  or  a  companion ! 

I  am  the  friend  of  sorrow  and  desire.  I  am  o'er- 
whelmed  by  them,  and  I  am  worn  out  with  patience 
and  trials  in  my  grief. 

I  complain  to  God  of  my  afflictions  and  my  love ; 
and  to  no  one  else  do  I  complain. 


202  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

Abla  was  deeply  moved  by  Antar's  evident  distress,  for  she 
loved  him  both  for  his  courage  and  his  eloquence.  "  Where," 
said  she,  playfully,  "is  my  share  of  thy  plunder,  cousin?  Am  I 
now  of  no  consequence  to  thee  ?  " — **  Truly,"  replied  he,  "I  gave 
all  to  thy  father  and  thy  uncles."  He  then  gave  her  the  two 
female  slaves  and  the  jewels  he  had  received  from  the  King ; 
but  the  perfumes  he  divided  among  his  aunts,  telling  Abla 
that  she  had  no  need  of  them,  her  breath  being  sweeter  than 
any  perfumes. 

Antar  rescues  his  Father  and  Uncles. 

Antar  then  learns  that  his  father  Shedad  and  his  uncles  are 
gone  in  pursuit  of  a  knight,  called  Kais,  who  had  taken  some 
cattle  from  their  tribe,  and  immediately  mounts  his  horse  Abjer 
and  sets  off  to  their  assistance.  He  finds  his  father  and  uncles 
tied  ignominiously  across  their  horses,  prisoners  of  Kais,  at 
which  he  roared,  "Ye  dastards! — come  forth!"  and  Kais  no 
sooner  heard  the  challenge  than  he  pricked  on  his  horse  till  he 
came  up  to  Antar,  and  thus  addressed  him  : 

I  AM  renowned  in  every  nation  for  the  thrust  of  the 
spear  and  the  blow  of  the  sword. 

I  am  the  destroyer  of  horsemen  with  the  lance, 
when  the  spears  are  interwoven  under  the  dust 

How  many  contests  have  I  waged  on  the  day  of 
battle,  whose  terrors  would  turn  gray  the  heads  of 
infants  I 

Long  ago  have  I  drunk  the  blood  of  horsemen, 
with  which  they  fed  me  before  I  was  weaned. 

This  day  will  I  prove  my  words  when  the  blood 
streams  from  my  sword. 

This  foul  wretch  will  I  slay  with  the  edge  of  my 
sword,  that  cleaves  through  the  flesh  before  the  bones. 


A   GALLANT  KNIGHT  OF  MAZIN.  203 

His  dwellings  shall  this  eve  be  found  waste  and 
desolate,  and  I  will  not  swerve  from  my  word :  his 
body  shall  lie  on  the  deserts,  cut  down,  and  his 
face  thou  mayst  see  grovelling  in  the  dust 

To  these  insolent  verses  Antar  replied,  saying,  "  Silence ! — 
may  thy  mother  bewail  thee  ": — 

Verily,  thy  spirit  has  urged  thee  to  abuse  me,  and 
thou  hast  spoken  the  words  of  a  vile  dastard : 

Thou  art  ignorant  of  my  exploits  in  every  battle, 
from  the  land  of  Irak  to  the  sacred  shrine : 

Thou  shalt  have  no  time  to  reply — no  justice  but 
the  sword;  for  ignorance  among  mankind  conducts 
them  to  their  death. 

This  is  the  scene  of  conflict,  and  in  it  doubtless  will 
be  proved  the  skill  of  the  coward  and  the  base-bom. 

Let  him  repent  who  has  only  shown  his  vanity; 
and  let  him  prefer  flight  to  resistance. 

I  am  Antar;  and  my  name  is  far  spread  for  the 
thrust  of  my  spear  and  the  blow  of  my  sword. 

Having  thus  exclaimed,  Antar  *'drew  forth  his  sword  and 
struck  Kais  between  the  eyes,  and  split  his  helmet  and  wadding, 
and  his  sword  worked  down  to  his  thighs,  down  even  to  the 
back  of  his  horse  :  and  he  cried  out — '  Thou  wretch  !  I  will  not 
be  controlled  !  I  am  still  the  lover  of  Abia  I ' "  He  then  rushed 
among  the  tribe  of  Dibgan,  who  fled  in  dismay,  leaving  all  their 
plunder  behind. 

A  Gallant  Knight  of  Mazin. 

The  Absians  return  home  in  triumph,  and  King  Zoheir  comes 
to  meet  them  at  the  lake  Zatool-irsad,  where  he  gives  a  grand 


204  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

feast  to  celebrate  the  exploits  of  Antar.  In  the  midst  of  the 
entertainment  a  gallant  knight  of  the  tribe  of  Madn,  with  a 
hundred  followers,  comes  riding  up  to  the  royal  pavilion,  and 
implores  the  King's  succour.  He  is  Hassan,  the  foster-brother 
of  Prince  Malik.  He  had,  he  informs  the  King,  long  loved 
Naeema,  the  beautiful  daughter  of  his  uncle  Nedjem.  A  wealthy 
chief  named  Awef  had  come  as  a  suitor  for  his  fair  cousin,  and 
her  father  feared  to  offend  so  powerful  a  knight  by  a  refusaL 
Hassan,  however,  had  settled  the  matter  in  his  own  favour  by 
encountering  Awef  and  dismounting  him,  and  only  spared  his 
life  on  the  intercession  of  his  uncle  Nedjem,  who  reminded  him 
that  Awef  had  eaten  his  bread  and  been  under  his  protection ; 
but  he  cuts  off  his  hair  and  sends  him  away  in  ignominy.  Thus 
far,  all  was  well ;  but  Hassan  had  nothing  for  his  cousin's  dowry; 
so  he  sets  off  to  procure  one  in  the  usual  way,  by  plundering  some 
other  tribe.  He  returns  with  immense  wealth,  and  finds  that 
Oosak,  a  still  more  powerful  chief,  had  demanded  his  betrothed 
in  marriage,  and  had  been  refused  by  her  father ;  and  now  Oosak, 
with  all  the  warriors  of  Cahtan,  was  on  his  way  to  attack  the 
tribe — and  therefore  he  had  come  to  b^  the  help  of  King 
Zoheir  in  repelling  the  threatened  invasion. 

No  sooner  had  Hassan  finished  his  story  than  Antar  started  to 
his  feet,  and  eagerly  offered  his  services,  and  Zoheir  gave  Prince 
Malik  leave  to  accompany  the  hero,  with  a  thousand  chosen 
warriors. 

How  Antar  found  the  Sword  Dhami. 

*'  They  travelled  on  for  three  days,  and  on  the  fourth  (for  the 
Lord  of  Heaven  had  decreed  the  glory  of  Antar,  and  that  none 
should  exceed  him  in  prosperity),  Antar,  happening  to  stray 
a  little  out  of  the  way,  descended  into  a  deep  valley,  and  lo ! 
there  were  two  horsemen  engaged  in  desperate  combat  Antar 
urged  on  his  steed,  and  coming  up  to  them,  '  Stop,  ye  Arabs  ! ' 
he  cried,  '  and  tell  me  the  cause  of  your  quarrel. '  At  the  instant 
one  of  them  stepped  aside,  and  came  up  to  Antar.  *  Noble 
horseman  of  the  desert  and  the  town,'  said  he,  '  I  refer  myself 


THE  SWORD  DHAMI,  205 


to  you,  for  you  are  able  to  protect  me.  * — *  I  will  take  your 
part, '  said  Antar,  *  I  will  protect  you — I  pledge  myself  to  you. 
But  acquaint  me  with  your  story,  and  what  has  rendered  neces- 
sary this  combat  between  you.' 

*' '  Know,  then,  noblest  knight  of  the  age,'  said  the  youth,  'that 
I  and  this  hoxseman  are  brothers,  of  the  same  father,  and  the 
same  mother ;  he  is  the  eldest  and  I  am  the  youngest ;  and  our 
father  was  one  of  the  Arab  chieftains,  and  he  was  called  Amni, 
the  son  of  Harith,  the  son  of  Teba ;  and  Teba  was  our  ancestor. 
And  one  day  as  he  was  sitting  down,  his  flocks  strayed  away, 
and  one  of  his  camels  was  lost,  and  as  he  was  very  partial  to  it, 
he  questioned  some  of  the  herdsmen  about  it.  One  of  them 
said:  "Know,  my  lord,  yesterday  this  camel  strayed  away 
from  the  pasture;  I  followed  behind  it,  and  it  still  continued 
to  run  away,  and  I  after  it,  till  I  became  tired,  and  perceiving 
that  it  lagged  behind,  I  stretched  out  my  hand  and  took  up 
a  stone,  black  in  appearance,  like  a  hard  rock,  brilliant  and 
sparkling.  I  stmck  the  camel  with  it,  and  it  hit  the  camel 
on  the  right  side  and  issued  out  on  the  left,  and  the  camel  fell 
to  the  ground  dead.  On  coming  up  to  it  I  found  the  stone 
by  its  side,  and  the  camel  was  weltering  in  its  blood. " 

"  '  On  hearing  this  my  ancestor  mounted  his  horse,  and,  taking 
the  herdsman  with  him,  went  to  find  out  the  pasture.  They 
passed  on  till  they  came  to  the  camel,  which  they  found  dead, 
and  the  stone  lying  near  it.  My  ancestor  took  it  in  his  hand, 
and  considered  it  very  attentively,  and  he  knew  it  was  a  thunder- 
bolt ;  so  he  carried  it  away  and  returned  home.  He  gave  it 
to  a  blacksmith,  and  ordered  him  to  make  a  sword  of  it.  He 
obeyed,  and  took  it  and  went  his  way;  and  in  three  days  he 
returned  to  my  ancestor  with  a  sword  two  cubits  long  and  two 
spans  wide.  My  ancestor  received  it,  and  was  greatly  pleased 
when  he  saw  it,  and  turned  towards  the  blacksmith  and  said : 
**  What  name  have  you  given  it  ?  "  So  the  blacksmith  repeated 
this  distich  : 

**  The  sword  is  sharp,  O  son  of  the  tribe  of  Ghalib, 
Sharp  indeed  :  but  where  is  the  striker  for  the  sword  ?  " 


206  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


And  my  ancestor  waved  the  sword  with  his  hand,  and  said: 
**As  to  the  smiter — I  am  the  smiter ! "  and  struck  off  the 
head  of  the  blacksmith,  and  separated  it  from  his  body.  He 
then  cased  it  with  gold,  and  called  it  Dhami,  on  account  of  its 
sharpness.  He  laid  it  by  amongst  his  treasures,  and  when  he 
died  it  came  in  succession  to  my  father  with  the  rest  of  the 
arms ;  and  when  my  father  perceived  his  death  was  at  hand, 
he  called  me  to  him  privately.  "  O  my  son, "  said  he,  "I 
know  your  brother  is  of  a  tyrannical,  obstinate  disposition,  one 
that  likes  violence  and  hates  justice,  and  I  am  aware  that  at  my 
death  he  will  usurp  my  property." — "What  measures  shall  I 
take?"  said  I. — He  answered  :  "Take  this  sword  and  conceal 
it,  and  let  no  one  know  anything  about  it :  and  when  you  see 
that  he  takes  forcible  possession  of  all  my  property,  cattle  and 
wealth,  do  you  be  content,  my  son,  with  this  sword,  for  it  will 
be  of  great  benefit  to  you :  for  if  you  present  it  to  Nushirvan, 
king  of  Persia,  he  will  exalt  you  with  his  liberality  and  favours ; 
and  if  you  present  it  to  the  Emperor  of  Europe,  he  will  enrich  you 
with  gold  and  silver. " 

"  *  When  I  heard  these  words  I  consented  to  what  he  demanded, 
and  took  it  out  in  the  darkness  of  the  night,  and  having  buried 
it  in  this  place,  I  returned  to  my  father  and  stayed  with  him  till 
he  died.  We  buried  him,  and  returned  home ;  but  my  brother 
took  possession  of  all  my  father  had,  and  gave  me  nothing — ^not 
a  rope's  end ;  and  when  he  searched  for  the  arms,  and  saw  not 
the  Dhami,  he  asked  me  for  it.  I  denied  knowing  anything  about 
it ;  he  gave  me  the  lie,  and  abused  me  most  violently  ;  at  last  I 
confessed,  and  told  him  I  had  buried  it  in  such  a  spot ;  so  he 
came  with  me  hither,  and  searched  for  it  but  could  not  find  it. 
Again  he  asked  me  where  I  had  buried  it ;  and  when  he  saw  me 
roaming  about  from  place  to  place,  he  rushed  upon  me,  and  cried 
out,  saying  :  "  Vile  wretch  I  you  know  where  the  sword  is,  and 
act  thus  to  deceive  me. "  He  attacked  me,  and  sought  to  slay 
me.  I  defended  myself  until  you  arrived,  and  now  I  demand 
your  protection.  * 

"When  Antar  heard  this  his  heart  pitied  him;  he  left  the 


RESCUE  OF  THE  TRIBE  OF  MAZIN,        207 


youth,  and  turning  to  his  brother,  said :  '  Why  do  you  tyrannize 
over  your  brother,  and  do  not  divide  with  him  the  property  your 
father  left  ?  * — *  Base  slave  ! '  cried  he,  highly  incensed,  *  look  to 
yourself,  and  interfere  not  so  arrogantly ' ;  and  he  turned  upon 
Antar,  thinking  him  a  common  man ;  but  Antar  gave  him  no 
time  to  wheel,  or  direct  his  reins,  ere  he  pierced  him  through 
the  chest  witH  his  spear,  and  thrust  it  ten  spans  through  his 
back,  and  threw  him  down  dead.  'And  now,  young  man,' 
said  he  to  the  other,  *  return  to  your  family,  and  assume  the  rank 
of  your  father ;  and  should  any  one  molest  you,  send  and  inform 
me  :  I  will  come  and  tear  his  life  out  of  his  sides. '  The  youth 
thanked  him  and  expressed  his  gratitude :  '  Now  my  brother 
is  no  more,'  said  he,  '  I  have  no  other  enemy ' ;  and  he  departed 
home. 

"But  Antar  fixed  his  spear  in  the  ground,  and  dismounted* 
from  Abjer,  and  sat  down  to  rest  himself ;  and  as  he  was  moving 
the  sand  with  his  fingers,  he  touched  a  stone;  on  removing  what 
was  about  it,  behold !  the  sword  the  youth  had  been  seeking ! 
He  still  cleared  away,  and  drew  it  forth,  and  seized  hold  of  it, 
and  it  was  a  sword  two  cubits  in  length,  and  two  spans  wide,  of 
the  metal  of  Almalec,  like  a  thunderbolt.  And  Antar  was  con- 
vinced of  his  good  forttme,  and  that  everything  began  and  ended 
in  the  most  high  God. " 

Rescue  of  the  Tribe  of  Mazin. 

On  the  following  day  the  Absians  encounter  five  hundred  horse- 
men, all  clad  in  steel,  and  led  by  Gheidac,  a  haughty  chief,  whose 
father  Antar  had  killed  in  one  of  his  former  expeditions.  Gheidac 
and  his  troops  were  advancing  to  assist  Oosak  in  his  purposed 
attack  on  the  tribe  of  Mazin,  when  they  fell  in  with  the  warriors 
of  Abs.  "  They  all  rushed  forward,  and  horsemen  encountered 
horsemen.  Cowards  fled,  and  the  weak-hearted  were  disgraced  ; 
but  the  bold  were  firm  in  the  assault,  and  the  equals  in  courage 
met  each  other  in  the  field.  The  earth  trembled  under  the 
trampling  of  the  horses;   the  heavens  were  obscured  with  the 


2o8  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


clouds  of  dust ;  the  warriors  were  covered  with  wounds,  and  the 
swords  laboured  in  the  cause  of  death  :  exertion  was  alive,  and 
all  jest  was  at  an  end."  Thus  the  battle  raged  till  mid-day, 
when  Antar  and  Gheidac  met,  and  after  a  desperate  combat,  the 
Absian  hero,  having  wearied  his  antagonist,  at  length  struck  him 
a  blow  ¥ath  Dhami,  and  cleft  him — ^and  his  horse  as  well. 

On  seeing  their  chief  fall,  Gheidac's  warriors  took  to  flight, 
and  the  Absians,  after  collecting  the  horses  and  plunder,  resumed 
their  journey  and  proceeded  until  they  reached  the  tribe  of  Mazin. 
Here  all  was  confusion  and  dismay  ;  for  Oosak  and  his  horsemen 
were  already  busy  plundering  the  women's  quarter,  and  Antar, 
who  was  ever  "solicitous  in  the  cause  of  women,"  rushed  with 
his  warriors  upon  the  dastards,  scattering  them  to  the  right  and 
left — **  mighty  was  every  act,  and  fat  ^descended  among  them." 

"Antar  eagerly  sought  after  the  plume  that  floated  above  the 
head  of  Oosak,  and  he  stopped  not  in  attack  until  he  was  beneath 
the  standard  where  Oosak  was  waiting  for  his  people  to  brii^ 
him  Naeema ;  neither  could  he  be  roused  till  Antar  came  before 
him  and  encountered  him.  Then  ensued  a  dreadful  engagement. 
The  combat  lasted  an  hour ;  when  nerveless  sunk  the  arm  of 
Oosak.  Antar,  seeing  the  state  he  was  in,  clung  to  him,  and 
grappled  him ;  and  drawing  his  sword  from  the  scabbard,  he 
aimed  a  blow  at  his  head,  but  Oosak  received  it  on  his  shield. 
The  sword  of  Antar  came  down  upon  it  and  shivered  it  in  two, 
and  split  his  vizor  in  twain,  and  it  penetrated  even  to  his  thighs, 
down  to  the  back  of  the  horse ;  and  the  rider  and  the  horse  fell 
in  four  parts  ;  and  he  cried  out — *  O  by  Abs  !  I  am  ever  the 
lover  of  Abla !  never  will  I  be  controlled  !  I  will  not  be 
restrained  1  * " 

Oosak 's  followers  then  wheeled  about  their  horses  and  sought 
security  among  the  rocks  of  the  desert.  The  horsemen  of  Abs 
and  of  Mazin,  having  pursued  them  out  of  the  land,  returned  to 
the  tents,  where  Hassan  entertained  Antar  and  his  comrades  at 
feasts  during  seven  days,  and  on  the  eighth  night  he  was  married 
to  his  beloved  Naeema.  Next  day  the  warriors  of  Abs  returned  to 
their  own  country. 


ANOTHER  SUITOR  FOR  ABLA.  209 


Another  Suitor  for  Abla. 

Wliile  Antar  was  gone  to  assist  the  tribe  of  Mazin,  something 
happened  which  marred  his  hopes  of  winning  his  beloved  Abla, 
and  commenced  a  series  of  troubles  to  himself,  to  his  family,  and 
even  to  the  whole  tribe  of  Abs.  This  was  the  betrothal  of  Abla 
to  a  noble  Absian  named  Amarah  :  **  a  conceited  coxcomb,  very 
particular  in  his  dress,  fond  of  perfumes,  and  always  keeping 
company  with  women «ind  young  girls."  The  fame  of  Abla's 
beauty  having  reached  this  Bedouin  exquisite,  he  sent  a  female 
slave  to  the  tents  of  the  family  of  Carad,  to  discover  whether 
Abla  was  as  beautiful  as  was  reported  of  her;  and  the  girl 
returning  with  a  glowing  account  of  Abla's  charms,  Amarah 
conceived  a  violent  passion  for  her — "his  ears  fell  in  love  before 
his  eyes."  He  visits  old  Malik,  and  demands  his  daughter  in 
marriage,  promising  a  handsome  dowry.  Malik  the  perfidious 
is  overjoyed  at  the  prospect  of  such  a  son-in-law,  and  very 
readily  gives  his  consent — hoping,  no  doubt,  that  Antar  is  by 
this  time  become  food  for  the  ravens  and  the  vultures. 

Next  day,  as  Amarah  was  hastening  to  Abla's  father  with  the 
dowry  and  marriage  presents,  a  messenger  arrived  to  announce 
the  return  of  Antar  and  Prince  Malik,  and  the  whole  tribe  went 
out  to  welcome  them.  Antar  remained  that  night  with  his 
mother  Zebeebah,  from  whom  he  learned  that  Abla  was  betrothed 
to  Amarah  ;  and  "  the  light  was  darkened  in  his  eyes."  In  the 
morning  he  acquaints  Prince  Malik  of  his  uncle's  perfidy,  and 
the  Prince  offers  to  secure  Abla  for  his  friend,  by  "  putting  his 
name  on  her,"  and  thus  keeping  off  any  suitor  till  Antar  was  in 
possession  of  his  wife.  Prince  Malik  then  goes  to  Shedad,  and 
requests  him  to  formally  recognise  Antar  as  his  son,  that  he  may 
take  rank  among  the  chiefs  of  the  tribe.  But  Shedad  would  not 
consent  to  do  what  no  Arab  chief  had  ever  done  before — ennoble 
his  slave-son.  The  Prince  replied  that  no  other  chief  ever  had 
such  a  son  as  Antar  :  '*  Let  other  Arabs  follow  your  example," 
said  he  ;  "  good  practices  are  to  be  admired,  even  though  they  are 

O 


2IO  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


new."  But  all  that  the  Princess  arguments  could  effect  in  favour 
of  Antar  was  a  promise  from  Shedad  that  "  he  would  consider 
the  matter." 

In  the  meantime,  Antar  meets  his  rival  riding  away  from  old 
Malik's  tent,  where  he  had  been  visiting.  Amarah,  in  the  excess 
of  his  vanity,  addressed  the  hero  in  insolent  language,  to  which 
Antar  replied  by  seizing  the  coxcomb,  and  dashing  him  senseless 
to  the  ground.  Amarah*s  followers  rushed  upon  the  hero,  who 
would  probably  have  been  soon  overpowered  had  not  Prince 
Malik,  returning  from  his  interview  with  Shedad,  come  to  his 
rescue,  and,  gallantly  crying,  "  Verily  Antar  is  a  rare  onysi  among 
a  people  who  know  not  his  worth ! — Come  on,  Antar  ! — now  for 
the  family  of  Zeead ! "  lustily  plied  his  sword  among  them, 
until  the  King  came  up  and  separated  the  combatants. 

Although  the  coxcomb  Amarah  richly  deserved  the  punishment 
he  received  from  Antar,  yet  for  a  slave  to  raise  his  hand  against  a 
noble  Absian  was  an  unpardonable  offence  in  the  opinion  of  the 
hero's  enemies ;  and  his  father  Shedad  was  therefore  compelled  to 
send  Antar  back  to  his  former  occupation  of  tending  the  flocks 
and  camels.  At  the  same  time  Antar  had  to  endure  the  morti- 
fication of  seeing  the  warriors  of  Abs  prepare  to  resist  a  threatened 
attack  of  the  tribe  of  Tey.  But  his  mother  Zebeebah  brings 
him  a  message  of  love  and  consolation  from  his  faithful  Abla : 
"  Soothe  the  heart  of  my  cousin  Antar  ;  and  tell  him  that,  if  my 
father  even  makes  my  grave  my  resting-place,  none  but  him  do  I 
desire — none  but  him  will  I  choose." 

Battle  of  the  Tribes  of  Abs  and  Tey — Antar  to 

THE  Rescue  ! 

The  Absians  meet  the  Teyans,  and  are  defeated ;  their  bravest 
warriors  retreat,  and  the  women  of  Abs  are  taken  captive.  In 
their  extremity  the  Absian  chiefs  recollect  the  prowess  of  Antar, 
whom  their  envy  and  malice  have  caused  to  be  degraded  from 
the  rank  of  the  foremost  warrior  of  the  age  to  the  condition  of  a 
keeper  of  flocks  and  camels.     A  messenger  is  despatched  to  solicit 


THE  HERO  SAVES  HIS  TRIBE.  211 

his  assistance.  Antar  puts  on  his  armour,  girds  his  sword  Dhami 
to  his  side,  and  mounting  Abjer,  joins  the  chiefs  of  Abs.  His 
father  Shedad  solemnly  promises,  if  he  will  pursue  the  enemy 
and  rescue  the  women  and  plunder,  to  recognise  him  as  his  son  ; 
and  his  uncle  Malik  swears  that,  if  he  will  but  rescue  Abla,  he 
shall  have  her  for  his  wife.  On  these  conditions  Antar  agreed 
to  redeem  the  honour  of  the  tribe,  and  thus  he  exclaimed : 

Soon  shall  ye  behold  my  deeds  this  day  with  the  foe 
in  the  field  of  spear-thrusts  and  the  battle-fire ;  and 
my  furious  courage  amongst  the  tribes ;  so  that  in  my 
sublimity,  I  will  mount  above  the  Pisces. 

I  plunge  into  the  flames  of  war  with  the  cleaving 
scimitar,  and  I  extirpate  them  with  the  goring  lance. 

I  drive  back  the  horses  on  their  haunches,  from  the 
lofty  seat  of  my  thin-flanked  Abjer,  and  with  the  blade 
of  my  sword  Dhami,  at  whose  edge  flow  the  waves  of 
deatli  over  the  enemy. 

This  day  will  I  exhibit  my  ardent  soul  with  my 
Indian  sword,  and  I  will  meet  the  chests  of  the  horse 
with  my  thrusts. 

I  will  establish  the  market  of  war  in  its  field  on  the 
top  of  my  steed,  in  the  protection  of  my  country. 

My  sword  is  my  father,  and  the  spear  in  my  hand  is 
my  father's  brother ;  and  I  am  the  son  of  my  day  in 
the  heights  of  the  deserts  ! 

The  first  object  of  his  attack  was  the  horseman  who  had 
captured  Abla.  Antar  pierced  him  through  the  side  with  his 
spear,  and  he  caught  Abla  in  his  arms,  like  a  frightened  bird, 
but  unhurt.  He  then  rushed  upon  the  enemy  with  irresistible 
impetuosity — ^his  sword  Dhami  played  among  them,  causing  the 
heads  of  warriors  to  fly  through  the  air  like  balls,  and  scattering 


212  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


their  limbs  like  the  leaves  of  trees.  The  Absians  are  again 
collected  together  and  attack  the  Teyans,  who,  seeing  tbeii 
leader  Rebeeah  fall,  slain  by  Antar,  fly  in  terror  of  the  hero's 
sword;  and  the  tribe  of  Abs,  after  driving  them  out  of  their 
country,  return  to  their  own  tents,  with  Antar  at  their  head, 
chanting  his  song  of  triumph  : 

I  HAVE  abused  fortune,  but  how  can  she  humiliate 
such  as  I? — I,  too,  that  have  a  spirit  would  cut 
down  mountains ! 

I  am  the  warrior  of  whom  it  is  said,  ^*  He  tended 
the  he  and  she  camels  of  his  tribe  ! " 

When  I  assaulted  Kendeh  and  Tey,  their  hands 
brandishing  the  long  spears,  with  armies,  that  when  I 
thought  of  them,  I  imagined  the  whole  earth  filled 
with  men ; 

And  as  their  hardy  steeds  trampled  our  lands,  whilst 
you  might  see  them  talking  and  exulting —  'twas  then 
their  steeds  fled  away  horrified  at  me,  and  the  re- 
doubled thrusts  that  gored  them  as  they  sought  the 
fight. 

The  noble  hero  feels  no  fatigue :  him  no  challenger 
need  call  to  the  combat. 

It  was  the  slave  alone  that  drove  back  the  horsemen 
whilst  the  flame  of  battle  was  blazing ! 

Then  speeded  away  their  troops,  in  terror  of  my 
arm; — light  they  fled,  burthened  though  they  had 
been ! 

Crushing  were  the  stamps  and  tramplings  on  their 
necks,  and  the  horse-shoes  dashed  and  poimded 
their  skulls. 


ANTAR  PROCLAIMED  CHAMPION  OF  ABS,  213 

How  many  warriors  were  laid  low  by  my  sword, 
whilst  they  tore,  in  very  rage,  their  hands  with  their 
teeth  I 

I  rescued  the  maidens  and  virgins,  and  not  one  did 
I  leave  but  bereft  of  sense. 

Mine  is  a  spirit  for  every  enterprise :  high  is  my 
fame  ! — exalted  is  my  glory ! 

Antar  proclaimed  Champion  of  Abs. 

At  length  the  hero  is  duly  admitted  by  the  Absian  warriors  to 
the  honour  and  rank  of  an  Arab.  King  Zoheir  causes  a  great 
feast  to  be  prepared  to  celebrate  the  overthrow  of  the  Teyans, 
at  which  he  presents  Antar  with  a  robe  worked  with  gold,  girds 
on  him  a  trusty  sword,  and  placing  in  his  hand  a  pike  of  Khata, 
and  mounting  him  on  a  fine  Arab  horse,  proclaims  him  the 
champion  of  Abs  and  Adnan.  And  thus,  apparently,  was 
removed  the  chief  obstacle  to  Antar's  union  with  Abla ;  more- 
over, the  maiden's  father  had  solemnly  sworn  that  she  should 
be  married  to  the  hero  if  he  rescued  her  from  the  Teyans.  But 
the  treacherous  Malik  never  meant  to  keep  his  word  ;  although, 
the  King  favouring  Antar's  cause,  he  had  no  choice  but  to  profess 
his  willingness  to  bestow  his  daughter  on  the  saviour  of  the 
tribe.  Old  Malik,  however,  was  a  perfect  master  of  craft  and 
cozenage ;  and  he  devised  a  plan  of  exposing  Antar  to  almost 
certain  death.  He  requires  him  to  procure  for  Abla*s  dowry 
a  thousand  Asafeer  camels — ^the  property  of  Monzar  the  son  of 
Massema,  king  of  the  Arabs,  and  lieutenant  of  Nushirvan  of 
Persia  :  if  Antar  once  venture  among  the  tribe  of  Shiban,  Malik 
confidently  assures  his  complotters,  he  will  never  return  to 
trouble  them  again.  For  such  a  prize  as  Abla,  however,  Antar 
would  willingly  encounter  even  greater  dangers,  and  therefore  he 
imdertakes  the  desperate  enterprise  with  alacrity. 


214  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


Antar*s  Expedition  for  the  Asafebr  Camels. 

Accompanied  only  by  his  faithful  brother  Shiboob, — his 
trusty  henchman,  who  frequently  rendered  the  hero  important 
service  by  his  dexterity  as  an  archer,  and  whose  fleetness  of  foot 
had  gained  him  the  soubriquet  of  Son  of  the  Wind, — Antar 
departed  at  night  from  the  tents  of  Abs,  and  proceeded  towards 
the  land  of  Irak.  Traversing  the  wilds  and  the  deserts  by  secret 
paths,  well  known  to  Shiboob,  one  day  they  came  upon  a  single 
tent  pitched  beside  a  spring,  and  near  it  was  an  aged  sheikh, 
bent  with  years : 

An  old  man  was  walking  along  the  ground, 
And  his  face  almost  touched  his  knees. 
So  I  said  to  him,  "  Why  art  thou  thus  stooping?  " 
He  said,  as  he  waved  his  hands  towards  me : 
"  My  youth  is  lost  somewhere  on  the  ground, 
And  I  am  stooping  in  search  of  if 

The  venerable  solitary  presented  the  travellers  with  a  drai^t 
of  milk,  cooled  in  the  wind,  and  set  food  before  them ;  and 
when  they  had  satisfied  their  hunger,  he  inquired  of  Antar 
whence  he  came,  and  on  what  business  he  was  bound.  The  hero 
related  his  story  :  how  he  was  betrothed  to  his  fair  cousin  Abla, 
and  how  her  father  had  engaged  him  to  procure  a  thousand 
Asafeer  camels  for  her  dowry.  The  old  man  earnestly  advised 
him  to  abandon  an  enterprise  beset  with  so  many  perils,  but 
in  vain;  and  having  reposed  that  night  in  the  sheikh's  tent, 
they  resumed  their  journey  at  daybreak.  As  they  proceeded, 
the  recoUection  of  his  beloved  Abla,  and  of  all  that  he  had 
endured  for  her  sake,  occurring  to  Antar's  mind,  his  feelings 
found  expression  in  these  verses  : 

In  the  land  of  Shurebah  are  defiles  and  valleys ;  I 
have  quitted  them,  and  its  inhabitants  live  in  my 
heart: 


THE  ASAFEER  CAMELS,  215 

Fixed  are  they  therein,  and  in  my  eyes ;  and  even 
when  they  are  absent  from  me  they  dwell  in  the  black 
of  mine  eye ; 

And  when  the  lightning  flashes  from  their  land,  I 
shed  tears  of  blood,  and  pass  the  night  leagued  with 
sleeplessness. 

The  breeze  of  the  fragrant  plants  makes  me  re- 
member the  luscious  balmy  airs  of  the  Zatool-irsad. 

O  Abla  1  let  thy  visionary  phantom  appear  to  me, 
and  infuse  soft  slumbers  over  my  distracted  heart ! 

0  Abla  !  were  it  not  for  my  love  of  thee,  I  would 
not  be  with  so  few  friends  and  so  many  enemies  I 

1  am  departing,  and  the  back  of  my  horse  shall  be 
my  resting-place,  and  my  sword  and  mail  my  pillow, 
till  I  trample  down  tlie  lands  of  Irak,  and  destroy 
their  deserts  and  their  cities. 

When  the  market  for  the  sale  of  lives  is  established, 
and  they  cry  out,  and  the  criers  proclaim  the  goods, 
and  I  behold  the  troops  stirring  up  the  war-dust  with 
the  thrusts  of  spears  and  sharp  scimitars — 

Then  will  I  disperse  their  horsemen,  and  the  foe 
shall  be  cut  down,  deprived  of  their  hands. 

The  eyes  of  the  envious  shall  watch  ;  but  the  eyes 
of  the  pure  and  the  faithful  shall  sleep. 

And  I  will  return  with  numerous  Asafeer  camels 
that  my  love  shall  procure,  and  Shiboob  be  my  guide. 

Thus  Antar  and  Shiboob  journeyed  until  they  came  to  the 
land  of  Hirah,  where  they  discovered  "  populous  towns,  plains 
abounding  in  flowing  streams,  date-trees,  warbling  birds,  and 


2l6  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR, 

sweet-smelling  flowers ;  and  the  country  appeared  like  a  blessing 
to  enliven  the  sorrowing  heart ;  and  the  camels  were  grazing 
and  straying  about  the  land."  Here  was  every  sign  of  wealth 
and  power ;  but,  nothing  dismayed,  Antar  despatched  his  brother 
to  look  after  the  Asafeer  camels  while  he  rested  Abjer. 

Shiboob,  disguised  as  a  slave,  proceeded  to  the  tents  of  the 
slaves  who  had  charge  of  the  camels,  and  telling  them  a  plausible 
story  of  his  having  run  away  from  his  master,  and  feigning  sick- 
ness, he  spent  all  the  day  with  them ;  and  when  the  slaves  were 
all  fast  asleep,  he  stole  away,  and  rejoined  Antar,  to  whom  he 
communicated  the  results  of  his  observations  regarding  the  num- 
bers of  the  camels  and  of  the  slaves  who  guarded  them.  Antar 
stations  Shiboob  with  his  bow  on  the  road  to  Hirah ;  he  then  cuts 
off  a  thousand  of  the  Asafeer  camels,  and  compels  some  of  the 
slaves  to  drive  them  towards  his  own  country.  He  is  overtaken 
by  King  Monzar  and  his  hunting  party,  and  defends  himself 
manfully  against  them  all,  until  Abjer  stumbles  and  brings  him 
to  the  ground.  Shiboob,  seeing  his  brother  fall,  and  supposing 
him  to  be  slain,  gives  his  feet  to  the  wind,  and  speeding  home- 
ward through  the  deserts,  thus  laments  the  fate  of  Antar : 

O  Knight  of  the  Horse !  why,  al^  !  has  the  steed  to 
mourn  thee  ? — ^why,  alas  !  has  the  barb  of  the  spear 
to  announce  thy  death  in  wailings  ? 

O  that  the  day  had  never  been,  that  I  saw  thee  felled 
to  the  earth,  cut  down — stretched  out — ^and  the  points 
of  the  lances  aimed  at  thee  ! 

Could  the  vicissitudes  of  fortune  accept  of  any 
ransom — O,  I  would  have  redeemed  thee  from  the 
calamities  of  fortune ! 

Thine  uncle  has  in  his  wiles  and  frauds  made  thee 
drink  of  the  cup ; — but  may  thy  cup-bearer,  O  son  of 
my  mother,  ne'er  taste  of  the  moisture  of  dew ! 


ANTAR  A  PRISONER,  217 


And  thy  cousin  will  mourn  thee ;  and  she  belongs 
to  thy  foe,  whose  slave  thou  wouldst  never  consent 
to  be. 

O  Knight  of  the  Horse !  I  have  no  strength  of 
mind — I  have  not  a  heart  that  can  ever  feel  consola- 
tion for  thee  in  my  sorrows  I 

And  the  war-steed  among  the  troopers  as  he  neighs 
will  turn  towards  thee,  mourning  for  thee,  like  a  child- 
less woman  in  despair ! 

Antar,  however,  was  not  dead,  though  taken  prisoner,  and 
brought  bound  into  the  presence  of  King  Monzar,  who  demanded 
to  know  whence  he  came.  Antar  replied  that  he  was  of  the 
tribe  of  noble  Abs. 

One  of  its  warriors,  or  one  of  its  slaves  ?**  inquired  the  King. 
Nobility,  my  lord,''  said  Antar,  '*  amongst  liberal  men,  is  the 
thrust  of  the  spear,  the  blow  of  the  sword,  and  patience  beneath 
the  battle-dust.  I  am  the  physician  of  the  tribe  of  Abs  when 
they  are  in  sickness ;  their  protector  in  disgrace ;  the  defender  of 
their  wives  when  they  are  in  trouble ;  and  their  horseman  when 
they  are  in  glory,  and  their  sword  when  they  rush  to  arms." 

He  then  relates  the  occasion  of  his  enterprise  which  had  thus 
miscarried.  The  King  expresses  his  astonishment  that  he  should 
have  exposed  himself  to  such  dangers  for  the  sake  of  an  Arab 
giri. 

"Yes,"  replied  Antar,  "it  is  love  that  emboldens  man  to 
encounter  dangers  and  horrors;  and  there  is  no  peril  to  be 
apprehended  but  from  a  look  from  beneath  the  comer  of  a 
veil " ;  and  thinking  of  Abla's  charms,  and  his  present  con- 
dition, he  continued,  in  verse  : 

The  eyelashes  of  the  songstress  from  the  comer  of 
the  veil  are  more  aitting  than  the  edge  of  the  cleaving 
scimitars; 


2l8  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

And  when  they  wound  the  brave  are  humbled,  and 
the  comers  of  their  eyes  are  flooded  with  tears. 

May  God  cause  my  unde  to  drink  of  the  draught  of 
death  at  my  hand ! — ^may  his  hand  be  withered,  and 
his  fingers  palsied ! 

For  how  could  he  drive  one  like  me  to  destruction 
by  his  arts,  and  make  my  hopes  depend  on  the  com- 
pletion of  his  avancious  projects  ? 

Truly  Abla,  on  the  day  of  departure,  bade  me 
adieu,  and  said  I  should  never  return  ! 

O  lightnings !  waft  my  salutation  to  her,  and  to  all 
the  places  and  pastures  where  she  dwells ! 

O  ye  dwellers  in  the  forests  of  tamarisks  I  if  I  die, 
mourn  for  me  when  my  eyes  are  plucked  out  by  the 
hungry  fowls  of  the  air. 

O  ye  steeds  !  mourn  for  a  knight  who  could  engage 
the  lions  of  death  in  the  field  of  battle. 

Alas !  I  am  an  outcast,  and  in  sorrow ; — I  am  hum- 
bled into  galling  fetters — ^fetters  that  cut  to  my  soul ! 

The  King  was  expressing  his  surprise  at  the  eloquence  and 
fortitude  of  the  prisoner,  when  there  arose  a  great  commotion 
among  his  followers,  caused  by  a  savage  lion  that  had  rushed 
from  the  desert,  and  was  busy  mangling  the  boldest  of  the  king's 
warriors.  Antar  oBers  to  slay  the  lion,  if  only  his  hands  are  set 
free,  leaving  his  l^s  still  fettered,  and  he  was  given  a  sword  and 
a  shield.  This  feat  he  performs  to  the  admiration  of  aU ;  and 
Monzar  sees  in  the  hero  one  well  qualified  to  aid  his  ambitious 
design  of  rendering  himself  independent  of  Nushirvan,  the  King 
of  Persia. 

Monzar  had  been  made  the  subject  of  a  practical  joke,  which 
he  little  relished,  at  the  court  of  Persia— by  eating  dates,  stones 


THE  PERSIANS  ATTACK  MONZAR.  219 


and  all,  at  dinner,  in  imitation  of  the  King  and  his  courtiers,  who 
he  supposed  were  also  eating  dates,  but  in  reality  simply  almonds 
and  sugar-plums  prepared  to  resemble  dates.  On  returning  to 
his  own  country  he  resolved  to  revenge  this  insult,  and  secretly 
incited  several  Arab  tribes  to  plunder  Persian  towns.  Chosroe 
commanded  him  to  punish  these  marauders ;  but  Monzar  had 
the  hardihood  to  send  back  the  royal  messenger  vdth  a 
letter,  stating  that,  in  consequence  of  the  insult  that  had  been 
offered  him  at  the  Persian  court,  he  had  now  little  or  no  influ- 
ence  with  the  Arab  tribes,  and  that  Chosroe  must  look  after  his 
own  kingdom.  And  Monzar  was  awaiting  the  result  of  his 
answer  to  Chosroe  when  Antar  fell  into  his  power. 

The  Satrap  Khosrewan  sent  to  Chastise  Monzar. 

Immediately  on  receiving  Monzar*s  audacious  message,  the 
King  of  Persia  despatched  his  satrap  Khosrewan  (the  original 
cause  of  all  the  trouble),  with  a  large  army,  to  chastise  his 
Arabian  vassal.  On  the  approach  of  the  Persians,  Monzar 
collected  all  the  clans  of  the  tribe  of  Shiban,  and  all  the  Arab 
hordes,  and,  giving  battle  to  Khosrewan,  was  signally  defeated. 
In  his  extremity  he  thought  of  his  prisoner,  the  lion-slayer. 
Antar  was  freed  from  his  fetters,  and  brought  before  Monzar. 

"  I  am  now  in  your  power, "  said  the  hero ;  **  and  I  demand  of 
you  the  marriage  dower  of  Abla,  my  uncle's  daughter :  restore 
my  sword,  my  cuirass,  my  arms,  and  my  horse,  and  give  me  a 
thousand  men  to  defend  my  rear ;  and  you  shall  see  what  my 
courage  and  force>will  effect  against  your  foes. " 

Monzar  swore,  by  the  sacred  Kaaba,  that  if  Antar  proved 
successful  in  destroying  the  Persian  army,  all  his  camels  should 
be  at  his  disposal,  and  ordered  the  hero's  horse  and  arms  to 
be  restored  to  him. 

Early  on  the  morrow  the  Arabs  went  forth  against  the 
Persians,  and  at  their  head  was  Antar,  who,  exclaiming,  "By 
thine  eyes,  O  Abla  ! "  received  the  attack  of  the  enemy  *'as  the 
parched  ground  the  first  of  the  rain. "    The  Persians  were  mowed 


220  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


clown  by  the  irresistible  Dhami :  terror  seized  upon  their  hearts 
at  the  sound  of  his  voice,  '*  like  the  thunder's  peal  " ;  and  his 
sword-strokes  were  more  rapid  than  the  flashes  of  lightning :  the 
army  of  Monzar  was  victorious. 

Combat  between  Antar  and  Khosrewan. 

Next  morning  both  parties  prepared  to  renew  the  contest ;  and 
Antar,  having  engaged  to  challenge  Khosrewan  to  decide  matters 
by  single  combat,  mounted  on  a  mare  ("for  his  horse  Abjer, 
wounded  the  day  before,  was  still  unfit  for  the  day  of  en- 
counter"), rushed  between  the  two  armies,  and  thus  spoke: 

Sally  forth — ay,  every  lion  warrior!  Taste  a  draught 
at  the  edge  of  my  sword,  more  bitter  than  the  cups  of 
absinthe. 

When  Death  appears  in  the  crowded  ranks,  then 
challenge  me  to  the  meeting  of  armies ; — ^ye  Persians, 
I  heed  ye  not — I  heed  ye  not  1 

Where  is  he  who  wishes  to  fight  me,  and  wants  to 
make  me  drink  the  liquor  of  death  ? 

Bring  him  forth! — let  him  see  what  he  will  meet 
from  my  spear  under  the  shades  of  the  war-dust ; — I 
swear,  O  Abla !  he  shall  eat  of  death  ! 

By  thy  teeth,  luscious  to  the  kiss,  and  by  thine  eyes, 
and  all  the  pangs  of  their  enchantment,  and  their 
beauty — were  thy  nightly  visionary  form  not  to  appear 
to  me,  never  should  I  taste  of  sleep! 

O  thou,  my  hope  ! — O  may  the  western  breeze  tell 
thee  of  my  ardent  wish  to  return  home  ! 

May  it  waft  thee  my  salutation,  when  the  sparkling 
dawn  bursts  the  veil  of  night  I 


COMBAT  OF  ANTAR  AND   THE  SATRAP.   221 


May  God  moisten  thy  nights,  and  bedew  thee  with 
his  rain-charged  clouds  ! 

May  peace  dwell  with  thee  as  long  as  the  western 
and  northern  breeze  shall  blow  ! 

No  sooner  had  Antar  concluded  than  Khosrewan  appeared  on 
the  plain,  "mounted  on  a  long-tailed  steed,  marked  with  the 
new  moon  on  his  forehead,  and  on  his  body  was  a  strong  coat  of 
mail  well  knit  together,  the  workmanship  of  David  ;  and  armed 
with  an  imperial  casque  and  a  glittering  sword ;  and  under 
his  thighs  were  four  small  darts,  each  like  a  blazing  flame. 

"And  when  he  came  forth  on  the  field  of  battle  he  roared  aloud, 
and  contemptuously  of  the  Arabs.  Antar  assailed  him :  high 
arose  the  dust  about  them,  so  that  they  were  hid  from  the  sight. 
They  exhibited  most  extraordinary  prowess;  they  separated,  they 
clung  to  each  otHer;  now  they  sported,  now  they  were  in 
earnest ;  they  gave  and  took ;  they  were  close ;  they  were  apart ; 
until  it  was  mid-day,  and  both  had  severely  toiled.  But  when- 
ever Khosrewan  attempted  to  assail  Antar  and  strike  him  with 
his  mace,  he  ever  found  him  vigilant  and  on  his  guard,  and 
aware  of  his  intent.  So  he  darted  away  from  him  in  order  to 
gallop  over  the  field,  and  would  exhibit  all  his  manoeuvres  and 
stratagems. 

"  But  Antar  kept  him  employed,  and  wearied  him,  and  pre- 
vented his  executing  his  designs,  so  that  the  chieftain's  wrath 
became  intense.  He  snatched  up  one  of  his  darts,  and  shook  it 
and  hurled  it  at  him — it  flew  from  his  hand  like  the  blinding 
lightning,  or  descending  fate.  Antar  stood  firm ;  and  when  it 
came  near  him  he  met  it,  and  dexterously  turning  it  off"  with  his 
shield,  it  bounded  away,  and  fell  upon  the  ground  far  oft. 
Khosrewan  snatched  out  a  second  dart  and  levelled  it  at  him  ; 
but  Antar  sprang  out  of  its  way,  and  it  passed  harmless.  He 
aimed  a  third  ;  but  Antar  rendered  it  fruitless  by  his  dexterity 
and  his  persevering  activity.  He  hurled  the  fourth ;  but  it  shared 
the  same  fate  as  the  others. 


222  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


**  When  Khosrewan  saw  how  Antar  had  parried  the  darts,  his 
indignation  was  extreme.  Again  he  took  up  his  mace,  and  he 
roared  even  as  a  lion  roars; — then  stretching  himself  out  with  it 
he  hurled  it,  backing  it  with  a  howl  that  made  the  plains  and 
the  air  rebellow.  Antar  threw  away  his  spear,  and  met  the 
mace,  and  caught  it  with  his  right  hand  in  the  air ;  then,  aiming 
it  at  Khosrewan,  he  cried  out :  *  Take  that,  thou  son  of  a  two 
thousand -homed  cuckold ! — I  am  the  lover  of  Abla,  and  am 
alone — ^the  Phoenix  of  the  world  !  *  Khosrewan  saw  him  grasp 
the  mace  in  the  air,  and  was  horrified,  for  his  strength  and  force 
were  exhausted.  He  retreated,  and  attempted  to  fly  from  his 
antagonist,  for  he  was  now  convinced  of  his  destruction.  He 
moved  round  his  shield  between  his  shoulders;  but  he  felt  that 
his  fate  was  nigh  at  hand,  for  the  mace  fell  upon  his  shield  more 
forcibly  than  the  stone  of  a  sling :  furiously  it  rattled  on  the 
Persian  chief,  and  hurled  him  off  his  saddle  to  the  distance  of 
twelve  cubits,  and  broke  his  ribs  and  snapped  his  spine. 

'*  Every  warrior  was  intensely  agitated  at  this  surprising  deed; 
and  when  the  Persians  saw  it  they  were  bewildered:  they  rushed 
upon  Antar,  agonized  as  they  were  at  this  calamity,  and  exposed 
their  lives  to  certain  death.  The  Arabs  received  them  with 
undaunted  courage  at  the  points  of  their  spears,  and  their  spirit 
was  exhilarated  by  the  acts  of  Antar.  The  two  armies  assailed, 
and  the  earth  was  pounded  under  the  trampling  of  the  horses. 
The  horsemen  and  the  clans  encountered :  clouds  of  dust 
thickened  over  their  heads.  And  their  fury  increased  till  they 
were  like  the  waves  of  the  boisterous  ocean.  Spears  penetrated 
through  hearts  and  waists;  heads  were  flying  off;  blood  was 
lx>iling ;  cowards  were  scared ;  the  courageous  full  of  fire :  the 
King  of  Death  circled  round  the  cup  of  mortality ;  and  the  com- 
mands of  the  Most  High  were  executed  upon  them." 

Antar  at  the  Court  of  Chosroe. 

Encouraged  by  his  success,  Monzar  now  resolved  to  formally 
declare  war  against  Chosroe ;  but  he  was  induced  to  defer  his 


ANTAR  AT  THE  COURT  OF  CHOSROE,     223 

purpose  by  the  counsel  of  his  sagacious  old  vizier,  Amru,  who 
undertook  to  proceed  to  the  Persian  capital,  and  ascertain  how 
the  tidings  of  Khosrewan's  death  had  been  received.  Amru 
finds  the  courtiers  of  Chosroe  in  a  state  of  great  excitement,  in 
consequence  of  the  arrival  of  a  renowned  knight,  called  Badhra- 
moot,  who  had  recently  come  thither,  as  the  champion  of  the 
Emperor  of  Greece,  to  do  battle  for  the  Christian  faith  against 
the  knights  of  Persia.  The  Emperor  was  preparing  to  send  his 
yearly  tribute  of  treasure  to  Chosroe,  when  Badhramoot  arrived 
at  his  court,  from  Syria,  where  he  had  long  been  distinguished  for 
his  warlike  prowess;  and  the  indignation  of  the  Christian 
champion  was  roused  at  the  sight  of  so  much  wealth  intended 
for  a  prince  who  was  not  of  the  true  faith.  Badhramoot  pro- 
posed to  convey  the  tribute,  and  deliver  it  only  if  he  was 
vanquished  in  single  combat  by  a  Persian  knight.  The  Emperor 
accepted  his  offer,  and  the  champion  accordingly  departed  for 
Persia  with  500  horsemen  in  his  suite.  Monzar's  vizier  learns 
that  Badhramoot  had  been  engaged  during  fifteen  days  in  single 
combat  with  the  flower  of  Persian  chivalry,  and  had  overthrown 
all  his  antagonists.  Chosroe  was  almost  in  despair :  should 
none  of  his  knights  be  able  to  vanquish  the  champion  of  the 
Emperor,  his  supremacy  was  gone.  Amru  contrives  to  acquaint 
him,  through  a  friend  at  court,  of  the  lion-hero  Antar,  who  had 
lately  slain  his  satrap  Khosrewan,  and  routed  his  warriors,  sent 
to  chastise  Monzar;  and  he  sends  to  Hirah  for  Antar. 

In  the  meantime  Bahram,  the  famed  knight  of  Deelem, 
encounters  Badhramoot,  and  holds  his  own  against  the  Greek 
for  two  successive  days.  On  the  morning  of  the  third  day, 
when  the  champions  were  about  to  renew  the  combat.  King 
Monzar  and  Antar,  accompanied  by  a  hundred  Arab  horsemen, 
appeared  on  the  plain. 

The  Arabian  prince  and  the  Absian  hero  having  been  ushered 
into  the  presence  of  Chosroe,  after  Monzar  had  duly  saluted 


224  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR, 


him,  Antar  stepped  forward,  and  thus  addressed  the  Persian 
monarch  in  verse  : 

May  God  avert  from  thee  the  evils  of  fortune,  and 
may  thou  live  secure  from  calamities  I 

May  thy  star  be  ever  brilliant  in  progressive  pro- 
sperity, and  increase  in  glory ! 

May  thy  sword  be  ever  sharp,  and  cleave  the  necks 
of  thy  foes,  O  thou  King  of  the  age ! 

May  thy  renown  be  ever  celebrated  in  every  land ; 
for  thou  art  just  and  beneficent ! 

So  mayst  thou  ever  live  a  sovereign  in  glory,  as  long 
as  the  dove  pours  forth  its  plaintive  note  ! 

Chosroe  was  fiUed  with  admiration  at  the  hero's  eloquence,  and 
was  astonished  to  perceive  his  prodigious  form :  here,  at  last, 
thought  he,  was  come  the  destined  conqueror  of  Badhramoot. 
The  king  then  gave  orders  that  Monzar  and  Antar  should  be 
treated  with  all  kindness  and  hospitality.  But  when  it  was  pro- 
posed to  pilch  the  tents,  in  order  that  they  might  repose  till  the 
next  day,  Antar  declared  that  he  would  not  rest  until  he  had  slain 
the  Greek  chief,  and  at  once  prepared  for  the  combat.  Badhra- 
moot, having  been  apprised  of  the  new  champion  who  was  come 
to  oppose  him,  eagerly  entered  the  lists,  and  Antar,  as  he 
advanced  towards  him,  exclaimed  : 

This  day  will  I  aid  King  Monzar,  and  I  will  exhibit 
my  powers  and  my  prowess  before  Chosroe  : 

I  will  break  down  the  support  of  Greece  from  its 
foundations,  and  I  will  sever  Badhramoot's  head  with 
my  scimitar. 

I  will  exterminate  every  lion-hero  with  my  sword  ; — 
let  him  vaunt,  let  him  boast,  let  him  scoff ! 


COMBAT  OF  ANTAR  AND   THE  GREEK.    22$ 


Is  it  not  known  that  my  power  is  sublime  on 
high? — is  it  not  among  the  stars  in  the  vicinity  of 
Jupiter  ? 

I  am  he  whose  might  is  uncontrollable  in  battle  ; — 
I  am  of  the  race  of  Abs — the  valiant  lion  of  the 
cavern  ! 

If  thou  art  Badhramoot,  I  am  called  Antar  among 
men ! 

It  was  easy  for  me  to  vanquish  the  armies  of 
Chosroe  in  the  contest;  and  soon  will  I  overthrow 
Caesar's  self  with  my  spear. 

Hear  the  words  of  an  intrepid  lion — resolute, 
undaunted,  all-conquering  : 

I  am  he  of  whom  warriors  can  bear  witness  in  the 
combat  under  the  turbid  battle-dust 

My  sword  is  my  companion  in  the  night-shades,  as 
are  also  my  Abjer  and  my  lance  and  my  spear  in  the 
conflicts. 

Night  is  my  complexion,  but  Day  is  my  emblem  : 
the  sun  is  unquestionably  the  mirror  of  my  deeds. 

This  day  thou  shalt  feel  the  truth  of  what  I  have 
said  ;  and  I  will  prove  that  I  am  the  Phoenix  of  the 
age! 

He  then  nished  down  upon  the  Greek,  and  wonderful  was  the 
combat  that  ensued.  Badhramoot  soon  found  that  in  the  Absian 
hero  he  had  met  with  no  common  warrior ; — all  his  skill  and 
prowess  were  of  no  avail  when  opposed  to  the  agility  and 
strength  of  Antar,  who  evaded  his  most  deadly  spear-thrusts 
with  the  utmost  er^se.  Bahram,  the  knight  of  Deelem,  an 
envious  spectator  of  the  combat,  foreseeing  that  Antar  should 
achieve  a  victory  which  had  been  denied  to  himself,  basely  llirew 

P 


226  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAK, 


a  dart  at  him  while  both  combatants  were  obscured  in  a  cloud  of 
dust.  But  Antar's  ever-watchful  eyes  saw  the  action,  and 
catching  the  missile  as  it  approached  him,  he  hurled  it  against 
Badhramoot  with  such  force  that  it  pierced  his  chest  and  issued 
out  at  his  back,  and  the  Greek  fell  lifeless  from  his  horse. 

Antar  would  then  have  taken  a  terrible  revenge  on  the 
treacherous  Bahram,  had  not  Chosroe  prevented  him  by  des- 
patching his  satraps  to  conduct  the  hero  before  him;  when, 
having  presented  Antar  with  an  imperial  robe,  he  commanded 
that  all  the  gold  and  jewels  and  beautiful  slave-girls  that  came 
l^dth  Badhramoot  should  be  delivered  to  him. 

Next  day,  at  a  magnificent  feast,  the  slave-girls  employed  all 
their  blandishments  to  divert  Antar,  but  in  vain  ;  for  his  hean 
was  filled  with  the  image  of  Abla ;  which  his  friend  Monzar 
observing,  he  rallied  the  hero  on  his  attachment  to  an  absent 
Arab  girl,  reminding  him  that  he  was  now  raised  to  a  station  of 
glory  which  all  the  chiefs  of  Arabia  would  envy.  Antar  replied 
that  even  the  grandeur  which  surrounded  him  had  no  charm  in 
his  eyes :  nothing  could  cause  him  to  forget  his  own  land,  and  hi^ 
beloved  Abla ;  and  thus  he  continued  in  verse  : 

The  fresh  breeze  comes  in  the  morn,  and  when  it 
blows  on  me  with  its  refreshing  essence,  it  is  more  grate- 
ful to  me  than  all  which  my  power  has  obtained  in 
nightly  depredations — than  all  my  property  and 
wealth. 

The  realms  of  Chosroe  I  would  not  covet,  were  the 
phantom  of  my  love  to  vanish  from  my  sight. 

May  the  showers  of  rain  ever  bedew  the  lands  and 
mounds  of  Shurebah  ! — lands,  where  the  brilliancy  of 
the  veiled  full  moons  may  be  seen  in  the  obscurity  of 
their  sable  ringlets — where  my  heart  chases  among 
them  a  damsel  whose  eyes  are  painted  with  antimony, 
more  lovely  than  the  Houri. 


THE  HERaS  MAGNANIMITY.  227 

Thou  mayst  see  in  her  teeth  a  liquor  when  she 
smiles,  where  the  wine-cup  is  studded  with  pearls. 

The  fawn  has  borrowed  the  magic  of  her  eye,  and 
it  is  the  lion  of  the  earth  that  chases  its  prey  for  her 
beauty. 

Lovely  maid — delicately  formed — beauteous — en- 
chanting !  and  at  her  charms  is  the  brightness  of  the 
moon  abashed. 

O  Abla !  the  anguish  of  absence  is  in  my  heart — 
thou  mayst  see  the  shafts  of  Death  driven  through  my 
soul! 

O  Abla !  did  not  thy  visionary  form  visit  me  by 
night,  I  should  pass  the  night  in  sorrows  and  restless- 
ness. 

O  Abla !  how  many  calamities  have  I  endured,  and 
have  plunged  into  them  with  my  highly-tempered  fal- 
chion, whilst  the  charging  steeds  and  undaunted 
warriors  dive  into  the  ever  perilous  ocean  of  death  ! 

The  hero's  return  to  his  own  land,  for  which  he  so  eagerly 
longed,  was  delayed  from  day  to  day  by  the  grateful  hospitality 
of  Chosroe.  He  accompanies  the  king  on  a  hunting  expedition, 
and  narrowly  escapes  being  foully  slain  by  Bahram,  still  envious 
of  his  good  fortune  in  having  vanquished  the  Greek  champion. 
Antar  eludes  his  stroke,  and  dashes  him  senseless  to  the  earth. 
Bahram 's  myrmidons  nish  upon  the  hero,  who  defends  himself 
against  them  all,  until  Chosroe  comes  up,  and  orders  his  satraps 
to  seize  the  dastards  and  strike  off  their  heads.  They  were 
accordingly  taken  and  pinioned.  **  But  Antar,  seeing  Bahram 's 
attendants  thus  disgraced,  dismounted  from  Abjer,  and  advanced 
towards  the  great  King,  and  kissing  the  earth  before  him, 
begged  him  to  pardon  them,  saying  : — *  O  my  lord,  pardon  is 
becoming  in  you,  and  most  j^uitable  for  such  as  you — here  I  ki.ss 


228  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

your  noble  hands,  praying  you  to  forgive  them  this  crime,  for 
to-morrow  I  intend  to  return  home  :  my  objects  and  wishes  with 
respect  to  you  are  accomplished,  and  I  do  not  wish  to  be 
mentioned  after  my  departure,  but  for  virtuous  deeds  ;  and  let  it 
not  be  said  of  me,  I  went  unto  a  tribe,  and  lefl  it  in  disgrace, 
and  clothed  with  shame. '  "  The  king,  admiring  Antar's  magna- 
nimity, granted  his  request,  and  set  Bahram*s  followers  at 
liberty. 

The  same  day  Antar  was  present  at  a  great  feast  given  by 
Chosroe  in  a  splendid  pavilion  erected  in  the  royal  gardens:  "It 
was  a  superb  palace,  like  a  fairy  pavilion,  ninety  cubits  in  length, 
and  seventy  cubits  wide,  built  of  marble  and  red  cornelian.  In 
the  centre  was  a  fountain  filled  with  rose-water  and  purest  musk ; 
in  the  middle  of  it  was  a  column  of  emerald,  and  on  its  summit 
a  hawk  of  burnished  gold  ;  its  eyes  were  topazes  and  its  beak 
jasper ;  around  it  were  various  birds,  scattering  from  their  bills, 
upon  Chosroe  and  all  that  were  present,  musk  and  ambergris. 
The  whole  edifice  was  scented  with  perfumes,  and  the  ceilings  of 
the  palace  glittered  with  gold  and  silver.  It  was  one  of  the 
wonders  of  the  period,  and  the  miracle  of  the  age. " 

Chosroe  pressed  the  hero  to  drink  freely  of  wine,  and  to  take 
pleasure  in  the  strains  of  the  singing-girls ;  but  amidst  all  this 
regal  splendour  Antar's  heart  was  far  away,  in  the  land  of 
Shurebah,  and  thus  he  recited  : 

Wine  cannot  calm  my  heart ;  sickness  will  not  quit 
my  body ;  my  eyelids  are  ever  sore — tears  ever  stream 
in  torrents  from  them. 

The  songstress  would  soothe  my  heart  with  her 
voice  ;  but  my  love-sick  heart  loathes  it. 

The  remembrances  of  Abla  draw  off  my  mind  from 
her  song,  and  I  would  say  to  my  friend  :  This  is  all  a 
dream  ! 


IN  PRAISE  OF  CHOSROE,  229 

In  the  land  of  Hejaz  are  the  tents  of  my  tribe,  and 
to  meet  them  again  is  forbidden  me. 

Amongst  the  tents  of  that  people  is  a  plump-hipped 
damsel,  that  never  removes  her  veil;  and  under  her  veil 
are  eyes  that  inspire  sickness,  and  the  pupils  of  her 
eyes  strike  with  disease. 

Between  her  lips  is  the  purest  musk,  and  camphor 
diluted  with  wine. 

My  love  and  madness  are  dear  to  me;  for  to  him 
who  loves,  sweet  is  the  pang  of  love. 

O  daughter  of  Malik  !  let  my  foes  triumph  in  my 
absence — let  them  watch  or  sleep ! 

But  in  my  journey  I  have  encountered  events  that 
would  turn  children  gray  in  their  cradles. 

Pleasures  have  succeeded  to  difficulties;  and  I  have 
met  a  monarch  whom  no  words  can  describe : 

A  King  to  whom  all  the  creation  is  a  slave,  and  to 
whom  Fortune  is  a  vassal;  whose  hand  distributes 
bounties,  so  that  I  know  not  whether  it  is  the  sea  or  a 
cloud. 

The  sun  has  invested  him  with  a  crown,  so  that 
the  world  need  not  fear  darkness. 

The  stars  are  his  jewels,  in  which  there  is  a  moon, 
brilliant  and  luminous,  as  at  its  full. 

Mankind  is  corporeal,  and  he  is  spiritual; — let 
every  joint  and  every  member  laud  his  name  ! 

Live  for  ever !  Prince  of  the  horsemen ! — ^long  as 
the  dove  pours  its  plaintive  note,  live  for  ever ! 

Delighted  with  these  beautiful  verses,  Chosioe  took  the  tiara 
from  his  brow  and  presented  it  to  Antar,  as  a  gift  to  Abla  on  her 


230  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

bridal  day ;  he  also  gave  him  a  canopy  of  pure  silver,  richly 
adorned  with  the  rarest  gems.  And  Antar  took  the  opportmiity 
of  interceding  for  his  friend  king  Monzar,  who  was  graciously 
pardoned,  and  reinstated  in  power. 

Rostam,  the  king's  famous  wrestler,  envioas  of  these  princely 
honours  bestowed  npon  a  stranger,  challenges  Antar  to  wrestle 
with  him  before  Chosroe.  But  Antar  is  reluctant  to  accept 
his  challenge,  lest  it  should  be  said  of  him  that,  after  being  the 
recipient  of  Chosroe*s  bounties,  he  had  slain  one  of  his  subjects 
in  his  own  presence — for,  if  he  did  wrestle  with  Rostam,  who 
sought  his  life,  assuredly  he  would  kill  him.  The  king  advises 
Rostam  to  withdraw  his  challenge,  but  the  wrestler  insists  upon 
the  contest,  and  Nushirvan  at  length  grants  his  permission. 
Rostam  then  stripped  off  his  clothes,  but  Antar  merely  tucked 
his  skirts  into  his  waistband,  and  advanced  to  bis  antagonist. 

"Rostam  bent  himself  like  an  arch,  and  appeared  like  a 
burning  flame.  He  rushed  upon  Antar  with  all  his  force,  for 
he  looked  on  him  as  a  common  man,  and  he  did  not  know  that 
Antar,  even  in  his  youth,  used  to  wrestle  with  he  and  she  camels 
in  the  plains  and  the  rocks.  They  grasped  each  other  with  their 
hands,  they  butted  with  their  heads,  tiiey  assaulted  with  thdr 
whole  might,  like  two  lionsi  or  two  elephants.  Then  Rostam 
stretched  out  his  hand  at  Antar's  waistband,  and  dung  to  it,  and 
attempted  to  lift  him  up  in  his  arms,  but  he  found  him  like  a 
stone  fixed  in  a  tower,  and  he  tottered  before  him.  Then  he 
repented  of  what  he  had  done,  and  of  having  provoked  Antar. 
He  slackened  his  hold,  and  he  ran  round  him  for  an  hour,  in 
the  presence  of  Chosroe  and  his  attendants.  He  then  sprang 
behind  him,  and  thrust  his  head  between  his  legs,  and  attempted 
to  raise  him  on  the  back  of  his  neck  and  to  dash  him  on  the 
ground ;  but  Antar  knew  what  were  his  intentions  and  his 
secret  designs ;  so  he  closed  his  knees  on  Rostam's  neck,  and 
almost  made  his  eyeballs  start  from  their  sockets,  and  nearly 
deprived  him  of  life.  Rostam  was  terrified,  and  wished  to 
escape  from  between  his  legs,  but  he  could  not ;  every  attempt 
failed :  Antar  was  like  a  block  of  stone  growing  on  a  desert 


THE  FIRE'lVORSIIIPPERS,  231 


or  a  mountain.  Antar  seized  him  and  clung  to  him,  and  raised 
him  up  in  his  hands  like  a  sparrow  in  the  claws  of  a  bird  of 
prey,  and  walked  away  with  him  among  the  multitude,  wishing 
to  wrestle  quietly  before  the  king.  But  Rostam,  when  he  saw 
his  life  was  in  Antar's  hands,  like  a  young  child,  was  abashed 
and  mortified  before  the  warriors  and  satraps  and  the  great  King. 
He  clenched  his  fist,  and  struck  Antar  on  the  ear.  Antar  soon 
recovered  from  the  blow, — he  returned  to  the  threshold  of  the 
palace,  and  dashed  him  on  the  ground,  and  smashed  him  to 
atoms." 

* 

The  king  then  announced  that  Rostam  had  been  justly  slain 
for  having  transgressed  the  laws  of  fair  battle,  and  assigned  to 
Antar  all  the  wrestler's  property  and  wealth. 

Shortly  afterwards,  the  eventful  day  being  spent,  Monzar  and 
Antar  retired  to  their  lodgings,  where  they  were  presently  joined 
by  Mubidan,  the  chief-priest  of  the  Fire-worshippers,  who,  in 
compliance  with  the  hero's  urgent  request,  introduced  him  to 
the  Temple  of  Fire. 

''There  he  beheld  a  magnificent  building,  of  yellow  brass, 
raised  on  pillars  of  steel,  with  precious  stones  in  the  interstices, — 
the  wonder  of  the  age,  to  astonish  the  wisest  of  men.  It  had 
three  storeys,  and  to  each  storey  were  three  portals,  and  to  each 
portal  were  slaves  and  servants,  stationed  over  the  edifice. 
Antar  gazed  at  these  men  with  glittering  forms  ;  and  round  the 
waists  of  each  were  leather  coverings  in  the  form  of  short 
breeches ;  and  they  were  standing  at  the  doors  of  the 
Temple,  some  near,  and  some  at  a  distance.  In  their  hands 
were  pokers  of  steel,  with  which  they  raised  the  flame,  heedless 
of  the  God  of  the  two  worlds,  and  uttering  Magian  words  that 
ravished  the  soul ;  whilst  their  sheikh,  seated  on  a  bench  of 
skin,  chanted  in  his  own  tongue.  The  fire  blazed  before  him ; 
the  fuel  was  of  aloe- wood ;  towards  which  they  all  addressed 
their  prostrations,  saying :  '  I  and  you,  we  laud  the  adored 
God!'" 

On  their  quitting  the  Temple,  and  the  fragrant  odours,  more 


232  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

exquisite  than  ambergris,  Antar,  thinking  of  his  beloved  Abia 
and  his  own  distant  land,  thus  exclaimed  in  verse  : 

The  logs  of  aloe  sparkle  in  the  fire,  and  the  flames 
blaze  high  in  the  air ;  the  sweetness  of  its  vapour  re- 
freshes my  heart  when  it  is  wafted  with  a  northerly 
wind: 

Its  brilliancy  and  flame  are  like  the  face  of  my 
beauteous  Abla. 

But,  O  Fire,  blaze  not — ^biun  not — for  in  my  heart  is 
a  flame  more  furious  than  thee  ! 

Sleep  has  abandoned  my  eyes  by  night,  when  I  be- 
hold my  friends  in  the  wings  of  darkness. 

Delightful  to  me  would  be  the  abode  of  my  tribe, 
were  I  even  poor,  and  not  worth  a  halter; — in  a 
distant  land  I  should  feel  no  more  anxiety  for  the  song, 
though  all  its  cities  were  in  my  possession. 

The  smoke  of  the  herbs  at  home,  when  it  is  scented 
even  with  camels  dung,  is  sweeter  to  me  than  the  aloe- 
wood,  and  more  brilliant  to  my  eyes  in  the  obscurity 
of  night. 

0  my  lord,  my  anxiety  increases  to  see  my  friends, 
so  permit  me  to  depart :  thou  art  my  stay  and  my  sup- 
port ;  be  merciful,  and  compassionate  my  situation. 

1  have  no  succour  in  the  world  but  thee,  towards  the 
success  of  my  projects. 

So  grant  me  my  request ;  and  may  thou  ever  live 
happy  :  may  thou  live  long,  and  glorious,  and  great, 
in  every  felicity  and  every  honour  1 

At  length  Antar  obtains  permission  of  Nushirvan  to  return  to 
his  own  country;  and  the  king  bestowed  on  the  hero,  as  his 


PARTING  OF  ANTAR  AND  CHOSROE,       233 

parting  gifts,  a  vast  quantity  of  treasures,  in  gold  and  silver,  and 
precious  jewels ;  a  thousand  embroidered  velvet  robes,  and  a 
thousand  rich  silk  vests ;  four  hundred  white  male  slaves  and  four 
hundred  strong  black  slaves,  fit  for  battle,  with  all  their  horses 
and  accoutrements ;  four  hundred  Georgian  female  slaves,  four 
hundred  Copht  and  four  hundred  Persian  slaves,  and  four  hundred 
slaves  of  Tibah,  each  slave  mounted  on  a  mule,  and  under  each 
were  two  chests  of  rich  silk. 

"Thus  Antar  departed  with  boundless  wealth.  The  great 
king  also  mounted,  with  Mubidan  and  all  the  satraps,  to  take 
leave  of  Antar.  And  when  they  were  at  some  distance  from 
Modayin,  and  had  plunged  into  the  barren  desert,  Antar  dis- 
mounted from  Abjer,  and,  moving  towards  the  king,  kissed  his 
feet  in  the  stirrup,  and  begged  him  to  return  with  his  attendants, 
thus  addressing  him : 

O  THOU,  whose  station  is  sublime — in  thy  beneficence 
above  the  height  of  Sinus  and  Aries ! — 

Thou  art  the  King  like  whom  there  is  no  king,  and 
whose  munificence  is  renowned  over  hill  and  dale ! 

O  thou,  my  hope ! — thou  hast  overwhelmed  me 
with  favours ! 

O  thou,  whose  largesses  resemble  the  bounteous 
rain-cloud  I — ^thou  hast  bestowed  gifts  on  me  whose 
extent  I  cannot  count : 

So  liberal  is  thy  hand,  O  thou,  my  life  and  my 
hope! 

Thou  art  he  to  whom  all  kings  must  submit;  and 
in  thy  justice  thou  hast  surpassed  all  thy  predecessors ! 


4(   « 


Do  not  imagine,'  exclaimed  the  King,  with  augmented 
delight,  'that  we  have  been  able  duly  to  recompense  you. 
What  we  have  given  you  is  perishable,  as  every  thing  human  is ; 
but  your  praises  will  endure  for  ages. ' 


234  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

*'  He  then  kissed  Antar  between  the  eyes,  and  bade  him  adieu, 
giving  him  as  a  last  token  a  rich  robe ;  and  b^ging  him  to  lisit 
him  frequently,  he  departed. " 

King  Monzar  and  Antar  journeyed  on  till  they  reached  Hiiah, 
where  the  hero  was  sumptuously  entertained  for  some  time ;  and 
when  he  was  about  to  depart  for  his  own  land,  Monzar  gave  him 
a  thousand  Asafeer  camels,  besides  many  other  valuable  gifts. 
Antar  then  began  his  journey  homeward,  attended  by  the  troops 
of  slaves  presented  to  him  by  Nushirvan  and  Monzar.  As  he 
traversed  the  deserts,  he  reflected  on  all  the  adventures  and 
perils  he  had  encountered  for  the  sake  of  Abla,  and  on  approach- 
ing the  land  of  Hejaz,  he  gave  way  to  his  feelings  in  verse : 

Is  it  the  breeze  from  the  heights  of  the  land  of 
Shurebah  that  revives  me  and  resuscitates  my  heart,  or 
is  it  the  gale  from  the  tamarisks  ? 

Is  it  the  flame  that  consumes  me  for  Abla,  or  is  it  the 
lightning  flash  from  her  dwelling  that  deprives  me  of 
my  senses  ? 

0  thou  spot  where  she  resides  I  may  thy  hillocks  be 
ever  inhabited  by  the  families,  and  may  thy  plains  be 
ever  crowded  with  friends  I 

Have  thine  eyelids  been  seen  to  watch  at  night,  as 
my  eyelids  have  watched  ever  since  I  quitted  thee  ? 

And  has  the  turtle-dove's  moan  filled  thee  with  sor- 
row in  thy  sleeplessness,  as  the  turtle-dove's  moan  has 
distressed  me  ? 

1  departed  from  thee  not  uneasy,  or  much  in 
anguish ;  but  my  uncle  has  outraged  me,  and  coveted 
my  death. 

He  has  exposed  me  to  a  sea  of  dangers,  but  I 
plunged  into  it  with  my  glittering  two-edged  blade. 


OLD  MALIK  IN  TROUBLE,  235 

» 

I  have  cut  through  the  neck  of  Fortune,  and  the 
nocturnal  vicissitudes  and  the  nightly  calamities  have 
trembled. 

My  good  fortune  has  seated  me  in  a  mansion  of 
glory,  man  and  genii  could  never  attain. 

I  have  encountered  in  Irak  horsemen  that  may  be 
accounted  as  whole  tribes  when  the  battle  rages. 

I  am  returning  with  the  wealth  of  Chosroe  and 
Caesar — ^with  he  and  she  camels,  horses,  and  slaves ; 

And  when  I  reach  home,  my  enemies  shall  weep,  as 
one  day  they  laughed,  when  Shiboob  announced  my 
death. 

They  indeed  sought  my  destruction  in  a  distant 
land ;  but  they  knew  not  that  Death  was — ^my  sword 
and  my  spear! 

Abla*s  Trials  during  Antar's  absence. 

After  it  was  spread  abroad  that  old  Malik  had  maliciously 
despatched  Antar  on  the  desperate  enterprise  to  procure  the 
Asafeer  camels  for  Abla*s  dowry,  he  soon  found  himself  the 
object  of  scorn  and  contempt  among  his  tribe,  and  resolved  to 
depart  secretly,  with  fifteen  horsemen,  on  a  marauding  expedi- 
tion, and  not  to  return  until  the  scandal  had  been  forgotten. 
But  instead  of  plundering  others,  Malik  and  his  party  were  taken 
prisoners  by  Vachid,  a  famous  horseman  of  the  tribe  of  Kenanah. 
This  chief  being  informed  by  his  mother  that  Malik  had  a  beautiful 
daughter  called  Abla,  he  demands  her  in  marriage,  to  which 
Malik  readily  consents,  and  offers  to  go  and  bring  her  to 
him  as  his  bride.  On  this  condition  Vachid  releases  Malik 
and  his  son  Amru,  who  at  once  depart  for  the  land  of 
Shurebah ;  and  on  approaching  the  habitations  of  their  tribe, 
they  find  all  the  people  in  grief  on  account  of  the  reported  death 


236  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

of  Antar.  They  skulk  along  until  they  reach  their  own  tents, 
where  they  discover  Abla,  clothed  in  black,  and  seated  in  the 
deepest  affliction,  beside  a  newly-made  grave.  Tears  flowed 
down  the  maiden's  cheeks,  and  she  gave  vent  to  her  despair  and 
sorrow  in  these  verses : 

O  GRAVE !  my  tears  shall  ever  bedew  thy  earth ! — ^my 
eyes  have  renounced  sweet  sleep ! 

O  grave !  is  there  any  one  but  my  cousin  Antar  in 
thee  ?  or  is  his  sepulchre  in  my  heart  ? 

Alas ! — alas  for  thee  I — ^felled  to  the  ground  art 
thou,  and  the  groans  of  a  distracted  mourner  survive ! 

They  slew  him  barbarously;  and  his  foes  exult 
when  they  see  my  agony  and  misery  on  his  account ! 

O  never  will  I  surrender  myself  to  another,  were  he 
to  come  with  a  thousand  charms ! 

Malik  then  enters  the  tent  of  his  wife,  who  informs  him  that 
Shiboob  had  brought  tidings  of  Antar's  death,  adding  that  all 
the  tribe  execrated  himself  as  the  cause ;  and  after  attempting 
to  soothe  the  anguish  of  Abla,  who  refuses  to  be  comforted,  and 
calls  him  the  murderer  of  her  cousin,  he  next  visits  his  brother 
Shedad,  and  hears  him  thus  bitterly  lamenting  the  loss  of  his 
heroic  son : 

O  MY  eyelids,  let  your  tears  flow  abundandy — ^weep 
for  the  generous,  noble  horseman  1 — 

A  knight  in  whom  I  took  refuge  when  my  efforts 
failed,  at  my  up-risings  and  my  down-sittings ! 

My  brother  exposed  him  to  a  sea  of  death  in  his 
malice,  and  the  hearts  of  the  envious  exult ! 


MALIK  RESOLVES  TO  EMIGRATE,  237 

He  planned  his  murder,  and  he  has  abandoned  me : 
no  more  will  my  honour  and  my  engagements  be 
respected ! 

He  behaved  cruelly  to  him  in  exacting  the  marriage 
dower,  and  he  now  refuses  to  do  him  justice. 

He  was  the  drawn  sword  of  the  race  of  Abs, 
cleaving  through  armour  above  the  skin. 

He  used  to  fell  the  foe  in  every  land,  till  the  warriors 
cried  out  for  succour. 

Prostrate — fallen — bowed  to  the  earth  is  he  now, 
beneath  the  shadow  of  lances  and  the  waving  of 
banners  I 

Now  he  is  gone,  the  Absiau  dames  are  in  sorrow, 
dashing  their  hands  against  their  cheeks,  in  fear  of 
slavery. 

Dishevelled  is  their  hair,  streaming  are  their  tears 
over  their  fair  necks  decorated  with  chains. 

Sighing  they  mourn  the  hero  of  Abs  in  sobs  of 
sorrow,  that  give  pleasure  to  the  envious. 

Grieve  they  must  ever  in  tears  from  their  eyes  for 
him  who  was  the  illustrious  knight ! 

May  God  destroy  Malik,  son  of  Carad,  and  make 
him  suffer  what  the  tribe  of  Themood  endured  ! 

Altogether  the  wretched  Malik  found  matters  very  unpleasant, 
to  say  the  least,  and  there  was  nothing  for  it  but  to  emigrate 
with  his  family ; — ^meanwhile  concealing  himselfi  lest  Amarah, 
to  whom  he  had  also  betrothed  Abia,  should  suspect  his  design, 
and  prevent  his  departure.  But  presently  Amarah,  now  that 
his  formidable  rival  was  dead,  resolves  to  lose  no  time  in 
claiming  his  bride ;  and,  accompanied  by  Oorwah  the  son  of 


238  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

Wind,  and  ten  other  horsemen,  he  departs  for  the  land  of 
Yemen,  to  procure  the  dowry  (by  plunder,  of  course) ;  and 
Malik  resolves  to  take  advantage  of  his  absence  and  remove 
with  his  family.  But  when  he  acquainted  Abla  of  how  he 
had  promised  her  in  marriage  to  Vachid,  she  protested  that  she 
would  never  become  the  bride  of  either  Amarah  or  Vachid, 
since  her  heart  was  buried  in  the  grave  of  Antar,  exclaiming  : 

O  HEART !  be  patient  under  the  agonies  I  endure  ! — 
But  how  can  my  tears  cease  to  flow? — ^no  balm  is 
there  to  soothe  them  ! 

How  can  my  tears  be  soothed  away? — ever  must 
they  flow  for  the  loss  of  him  who  shamed  the  brilliancy 
of  the  loveliest ! 

High  exalted  are  his  glory  and  his  exploits :  noble 
is  his  birth,  permanent  in  the  pinnacle  of  honour  ! 

He  who  dwells  in  every  life — he,  the  Eternal  Cup- 
bearer— has  made  him  drink  of  the  cups  of  Death  ! 

O  I  shall  weep  for  him  for  ever,  as  long  as  the  dove 
pours  forth  its  lament  on  the  boughs  and  the  leaves ! 

In  spite  of  Abla's  tears  and  agonies,  however,  Malik  caused 
the  tents  to  be  struck,  and  at  midnight  he  quitted  the  tribe,  and 
proceeded  with  his  family  to  the  Springs  of  Zeba,  where  Vachid 
lay  concealed  with  Malik's  companions,  whom  he  held  as 
hostages.  On  Malik's  arrival,  Vachid  released  his  prisoners, 
who  returned  home  ;  and  the  party  of  Vachid,  including  Malik's 
family,  commenced  their  journey  back  to  their  own  land. 

On  the  fourth  day  of  their  march  they  were  attacked  l»y 
a  party  of  brigands,  led  by  a  chief  who  rejoiced  in  the  name 
of  the  "Nocturnal  Evil."  Eager  to  display  his  prowess  in 
presence  of  Abla,  Vachid  encounters  this  formidable  robhcr, 
and  is  slain.     Malik  and  his  son  Amru  are   taken   prisoners 


ANTAR  MEETS   WITH  ABLA,  239 

and  securely  bound ;  but  while  the  brigands  are  engaged  with 
Vachid*s  followers,  Abla  and  her  mother  release  them,  and  they 
all  escape  into  the  desert,  where  they  meet  with  Amarah  and 
his  party,  returning,  exulting  and  victorious,  with  plunder, 
from  the  land  of  Yemen.  Malik  was  giving  Amarah  an 
account  of  their  misfortunes  when  they  were  surprised  by  the 
appearance  of  the  Nocturnal  Evil  and  his  gang,  who,  having 
defeated  the  Kenanians,  and  turned  bac]c  in  quest  of  the  howdah 
containing  Abla,  and  finding  it  empty,  had  hastened  to  overtake 
the  fugitives.  Amarah  and  Oorwah  prepare  to  resist  the 
brigands,  but  are  speedily  overpowered  and  pinioned  ;  and 
once  more  the  fair  Abla  and  her  family  are  in  the  power  of 
the  dreaded  "  Evil."  Having  rested  in  that  spot  for  the  night, 
at  daybreak  the  Nocturnal  Evil  sent  before  him  five  slaves  in 
charge  of  Abla,  with  orders  to  proceed  to  a  place  called  Zatool 
Menahil,  and  there  pitch  the  tents — "for  there,"  said  the  foul 
wretch,  "  I  intend  to  remain  three  days  with  this  lovely  damsel." 

Abla  and  her  Family  rescued  by  Antar. 

Now  it  happened  that  Antar,  pursuing  his  journey  home- 
ward, reached  the  Zatool  Menahil  shortly  after  the  five  slaves  in 
charge  of  Abla's  litter  had  pitched  the  tents  there ;  and  he  was 
not  a  little  surprised  to  hear  the  voice  of  a  woman  within  the 
litter,  calling  upon  his  own  name  in  her  distress,  saying,  "  Woe 
to  these  dastard  slaves !  O  Antar !  where  are  thine  eyes,  that 
they  might  behold  me  ?  "  and  thus  she  continued  her  lament : 

Where  are  thine  eyes,  O  Knight  of  men  and  genii? 

O  that  thou  couldst  see  me  in  the  infamy  of  despair, 
with  wretches  who  respect  no  protection :  no,  no — and 
have  no  mercy ! 

O  that  I  had  never  lived  in  this  age  of  traitors,  who 
only  see  in  thee  my  misery  and  dishonour ! 


240  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

Why  has  God  prolonged  my  existence,  now  the  lion 
is  gone,  who  ever  protected  the  country  and  the 
women? 

May  God  ever  bedew  his  grave  with  plenteous 
showers  that  fail  not ! 

For,  in  truth,  he  was  a  knight  and  a  hero  that  could 
vanquish  with  his  fingers  the  beasts  of  the  desert,  and 
destroy  the  warriors  in  the  day  of  battle,  whenever  he 
appeared  in  the  plains  of  contention  ! 

Antar  was  now  assured  that  the  distressed  damsel  could  be 
none  but  his  own  beloved  Abla;  and  furiously  assailing  the 
slaves  with  his  spear,  he  slew  three  of  them,  while  the  two  others 
fled,  to  carry  the  news  to  their  chief. 

Abla  was  naturally  overcome  by  the  sudden  apparition  of  her 
brave  lover,  whom  she  had  long  regarded  as  dead,  but  at 
length  her  spirits  revived,  and  she  expressed  her  feelings  in 
these  verses : 

All  my  misery — all  my  grief — is  past,  now  that  we 
have  met  after  so  long  an  absence  ! 

Time  now  happily  announces  the  existence  of  one 
who  had  been  trampled  beneath  the  dumb  grave ! 

Now  the  eyes  of  the  age  are  illumined,  after  a 
period  of  darkness;  and  I  am  returned  to  life  after  my 
death ! 

0  Knight  of  men  and  genii ! — O  thou  that  excellest 
every  warrior  in  glory !  mine  eyes  gladden  at  behold- 
ing thy  liberality,  and  the  beauty  of  thy  tnith  ! 

1  will  implore  God  ever  to  exalt  thy  glories,  both 
morning  and  evening  I 


THE  HERO  DECORATES  ABLA,  241 

She  then  told  Antar  how  Shiboob  had  brought  the  doleful 
news  of  his  death,  and  of  all  that  had  occurred  to  her  during 
his  long  absence ;  and  Antar,  in  his  turn,  briefly  recounted  his 
own  adventures,  and  the  perils  he  had  been  exposed  to  since  he 
quitted  the  land  of  Shurebah  to  procure  the  Asafeer  camels 
for  her  dowry. 

Thus  the  lovers  were  conversing  when  the  Nocturnal  Evil 
was  seen  rapidly  approaching,  having  heard,  from  the  two  slaves 
that  escaped  Antar's  spear-thrusts,  of  the  irresistible  champion 
who  had  come  to  the  rescue  of  their  fair  charge.  Antar,  mounted 
on  Abjer,  impetuously  assailed  the  brigand  with  his  spear,  and, 
crying  **  O  by  Abs  !  O  by  Adnan  I — I  am  the  lover  of  Abla  !  " 
forced  it  through  his  breast,  so  that  he  fell  lifeless  to  the  earth. 
The  hero  then  hastened  to  disperse  the  followers  of  the  Nocturnal 
Evil  and  release  the  prisoners ;  and  while  expressing  his  grati- 
fication at  meeting  his  uncle  Malik,  he  reminded  him  that  all  his 
late  sufferings  were  but  a  just  punishment  for  his  past  conduct. 

Then  were  the  tents  pitched,  and  a  grand  feast  prepared  by 
Antar's  slaves;  and  the  hero  entertained  his  friends  with  his 
adventures  in  Irak  and  the  honours  and  princely  gifts  bestowed 
on  him  by  king  Nushirvan.  After  the  feast  was  over,  Antar 
rejoined  Abla,  who  threw  herself  into  his  arms,  and  kissed  him 
repeatedly;  and  when  he  told  her  of  all  the  riches  he  had 
brought  home  with  him,  "Truly,"  she  replied,  "thy  safety  is 
more  acceptable  to  me  than  all  thou  hast  described  :  I  have 
felt  no  pleasure  but  in  thy  presence."  Antar  smiled,  and  his 
bosom  expanded  with  joy  at  the  purity  of  her  love. 

The  Hero's  reception  by  his  Tribe. 

At  daybreak  the  hero  ordered  the  camels  to  be  loaded 
and  preparations  made  for  continuing  their  journey  home. 
Decorating  Abla  with  magnificent  robes  studded  with  jewels, 
and  placing  on  her  head  the  diadem  of  Chosroe,  he  raised  her 
into  the  silver  litter,  with  her  mother,  and  commanded  the  slaves 
to  proceed  with  them  in  advance  and  guard  them  on  the  journey. 

Q 


242  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR. 

"When  Abla  was  seated  in  the  litter,  her  countenance  became 
radiant  and  illumined ;  she  smiled  in  the  loveliest  manner : 
every  charm  was  heightened,  and  from  her  eyelashes  she  shot 
arrows  that  penetrated  the  slayer  of  men  and  heroes."  It 
was  therefore  no  wonder  that  the  coxcomb  Amarah  should  be 
tortured  with  envy  and  rage  at  thus  beholding  the  bride  of 
Antar  1 

When  the  party  were  within  one  day's  journey  of  the  tribe 
of  Abs,  Malik,  with  his  son  Amru  and  Abla's  mother,  went 
in  advance  to  apprise  King  Zoheir  of  Antar's  return.  All  the 
warriors  of  Abs,  with  the  King  at  their  head,  came  forth  to 
meet  the  hero, — and  never  was  there  such  another  meeting — 
such  a  glorious  day !  '*  The  noble  Absians  all  surrounded  him, 
whilst,  in  reply  to  King  Zoheir,  he  related  his  adventures.  His 
mother  and  his  brothers  wept,  and  clamoured  at  the  ecstasy  of 
meeting,  and  in  the  excess  of  their  happiness  after  all  past  alarms 
and  afflictions. "  Antar  then  distributed  rich  presents  to  Zoheir 
and  his  sons,  and  to  all  the  noble  horsemen  of  Abs ;  to  his  father 
Shedad  he  gave  abundance  of  gold  and  silver,  and  many  stout 
slaves ;  and  the  remainder,  with  the  Asafeer  camels,  he  delivered 
to  his  uncle  Malik.  After  this  every  one  sought  his  own  tent. 
*'  But  Amru,  Abla's  brother,  made  the  camels  that  conveyed 
his  sister  kneel  down ;  he  lifted  up  the  curtain  of  the  litter — ^but 
Abla  was  not  tka-el " 

Antar's  grief  for  the  loss  of  Aula. 

**  Fortune  builds  up,  and  throws  down  ! " — Antar's  cup  of 
happiness,  filled  to  overflowing,  was  in  an  instant  dashed  from 
his  lips,  by  the  mysterious  disappearance  of  his  beloved  Abla, 
for  whose  sake  he  had  braved  the  perib  of  the  deserts  and  the 
wastes,  and  fought  with  savage  lions,  and  with  warriors  all  but 
invincible.  This  was  a  calamity  for  which  the  heroic  son  of 
Shedad  was  totally  unprepared ;  it  fell  upon  him  with  a  force 
that  threatened  to  deprive  him  of  his  reason.  In  vain  the  kind* 
hearted  King  Zoheir  tried  to  soothe  him  with  the  assurance  that 


ANTAR  LAMENTS  THE  LOSS  OF  ABLA,      243 

__      _■_  I  —   -  ^    _  _ 

he  would  soon  clear  up  the  mystery.  The  grief-stricken  lover 
bitterly  accused  himself  of  having,  in  his  anxiety  to  meet  the 
King,  carelessly  left  his  heart's  idol  in  charge  of  slaves  who 
knew  not  her  worth.  The  King  sent  forth  parties  to  scour  the 
country  in  every  direction,  but  they  all  returned  without  having 
obtained  tidings  of  the  beautiful  daughter  of  Malik.  As  to 
Antar  himself,  the  calamity  had  quite  unmanned  him :  his 
"native  hue  of  resolution  was  sicklied  o'er  with  the  pale 
cast  of  thought ; "  and  the  slayer  of  heroes  was  for  the  time 
being  unfit  for  "enterprises  of  great  pith  and  moment."  He 
despatched  his  brother  Shiboob,  however,  in  quest  of  his  lost 
bride,  and  awaited  his  return  with  anxious  expectation,  that 
banished  sleep  from  his  eyelids.  The  heart  of  the  hero  was 
completely  subdued ;  and  thus,  with  many  a  sob  and  sigh,  he 
expressed  his  sorrow : 

My  tears  stand  in  drops  on  my  eyelids,  and  short  is 
the  sleep  of  my  eyes. 

For  love  there  is  no  rest — no  comfort  when  the 
railers  advise. 

We  met,  but  our  meeting  quenched  not  the  flame ; 
— no,  it  did  not  cool  the  boiHng  heat ! 

How  long  shall  I  mourn  for  the  mate  that  grieves 
me  ? — tears  and  lamentations  avail  not 

I  have  implored  a  peaceable  life  from  Fortune,  but 
her  favours  to  me  are  like  the  boons  of  a  miser. 

I  am  dying ;  and  the  most  extraordinary  forbear- 
ance aids  me  not  in  my  calamities. 

Shiboob  brings  tidings  of  Abla. 

Antar  endured  many  days  and  weeks  of  torturing  suspense, 
his  only  source  of  consolation  being  the  society  of  King  Zoheir, 
until  at  length  Shiboob  returned — with  news  of  Abla. 


244  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

''After  I  had  passed  through  various  cities  of  Yemen,'*  said 
Shiboob,  "I  came  to  Sana  and  Aden,  and  encountered 
numerous  difficulties  tmtil  I  reached  the  tribe  of  Tqr.  It  was 
there  I  found  Abla,  in  the  power  of  Moofrij  :  there  she  attends 
on  the  camels  and  the  sheep.  He  has  clothed  her  in  garments 
of  raw  leather,  and  makes  her  serve  in  the  meanest  offices  day 
and  night.  His  mother  too  threatens  her,  and  treats  her  harshly 
in  her  speech ;  so  that  she  weeps  both  when  she  rises  and  lies 
down.  She  calls  on  your  name,  and  seeks  her  wonted  succour 
from  you  both  night  and  day." 

"  Well,  Shiboob, "  said  Antar,  while  the  tears  gushed  firom  his 
eyes ;  <'  but  what  was  the  cause  of  her  falling  into  the  power  of 
Moofrij? — How  came  he,  of  all  people,  to  obtain  possession 
of  her  ?  " 

**  Son  of  my  mother,**  replied  Shiboob,  *'  the  cause  of  all  this 
is  Amarah,  in  whose  mind  are  ever  harboured  evil  and  deceit. 
His  envy  at  last  overpowered  him,  at  the  sight  of  the  vast  wealth 
you  had  with  you.  He  turned  aside  into  the  desert ;  but  his 
love  for  Abla  was  so  violent,  that  he  followed  your  traces,  and 
watched  her  after  you  had  quitted  her  in  the  morning.  Fate 
and  destiny  overcame  her.  He  seized  her ;  and,  though  he  was 
desirous  to  vanquish  her,  Moofrij  overtook  him  in  the  desert. 
He  tore  her  away  from  him,  and  reduced  him  to  a  most  pitiable 
state.** 

"Brother,**  said  Antar,  whose  heart  was  almost  bursting 
as  he  listened  to  this  narrative,  *'how  did  you  obtain  this  infor- 
mation?" 

"Know,**  continued  Shiboob,  "that,  when  I  quitted  you,  I 
made  the  circuit  of  every  tribe  and  horde,  and  made  inquiries  of 
every  one  I  met,  whether  on  horseback  or  on  foot,  i^ntil  I  came 
to  Aja  and  Selma,  and  the  waters  of  the  tribe  of  Tey.  With 
every  family  I  passed  one  night,  saying  to  myself,  peradventure  I 
may  learn  something.  On  the  last  night  of  my  stay  I  slept  in  the 
dwelling  of  Moofrij,  and  my  place  of  rest  was  close  to  that  of  one 
of  his  slaves,  called  Moobshir.  He  invited  me  to  converse  with 
him,  and  was  very  kind  to  me ;  and  to  his  questions  about  my 


SHIBOOB  DISCOVERS  ABLA,  245 

connections,  '  Son  of  my  aunt,'  I  replied,  'I  am  of  the  tribe  of 
Jalhema,  of  the  family  of  Saad,  son  of  Khoozrej — and  this  is  the 
family  of  Hatim  Tey.'    So  he  complimented  me. 

"  But  when  all  was  still  and  quiet,  and  every  one  asleep,  the 
voice  of  Abla  struck  upon  my  ears.  She  was  loudly  wailing,  and 
exclaiming  through  the  calmness  of  the  night — *  O  for  the  joys  of 
Mount  Saadi  and  the  land  of  Shurebah  1 '  and  she  was  expressing 
her  regret  at  being  separated  from  her  native  soil,  and  her  loss  of 
friends  5  adding — *  O  protector  of  the  tribe  of  Abs,  how  often 
have  I  called  on  thee !  Where  b  the  path  by  which  I  can  give 
thee  news  of  myself  and  meet  thee  ?  O  son  of  my  uncle  !  for  tor- 
ments distract  me.  My  eyes  are  ulcered  with  weeping,  O  son  of 
my  uncle  !  Thy  foes  triumph,  and  watchful  are  the  eyes  of  thy 
enemies.  It  was  the  very  moment  of  meeting,  when  separation 
closely  followed  its  traces ;  and  thou  hadst  but  just  arrived  from 
Irak,  when  we  were  again  scattered  over  the  globe !  Woe  to 
me !  my  lot  is  nothing  but  tears  and  sighs.  What  a  misery  it  is 
to  put  on  raw  leather  for  a  garment !  Cruel  is  this  grievous 
state  !  Hasten,  then,  thy  arrival,  son  of  my  uncle ; — rescue 
me  by  thy  exertions,  that  laid  low  the  lions  of  the  caverns. 
Let  me  hear  thy  shouts  in  the  tumults  of  spearsmen  and  swords- 
men.' 

'*  After  this  doleful  effusion,  my  brother,  she  sobbed  and 
sighed  so  bitterly,  it  might  almost  be  said  that  she  was  dead, 
and  that  her  soul  had  departed.  Again  she  sighed  from  her 
sorrowing  heart,  and  thus  spoke  : 

Mv  anxious  love  is  vehement,  and  my  tears  flow  pro- 
fusely, and  they  ease  the  anguish  of  my  pains  in  my 
frame. 

Ask  my  burning  sighs  that  mount  on  high:  they 
will  tell  you  of  the  flaming  passion  in  my  liver. 

By  your  violence  you  overpower  my  weakness :  I 
have  not  forbearance  or  resignation  to  endure  it. 


246  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


O  bird  of  the  tamarisk! — all  the  livelong  night, 
drooping,  he  mourns  for  his  mate  that  is  gone  and 
returns  not ; — 

This  is  thy  sorrow,  and  to-morrow  thou  art  relieved : 
but  alas  !  what  is  the  state  of  the  captive  of  love  and 
anguish  ? 

O  western  breeze  I  blow  to  my  country,  and  give 
information  of  me  to  the  fierce  lion — the  hero  of  Abs, 
and  their  champion  when  start  forth  the  foreheads  of 
the  horse  and  warriors  in  multitudes ! 

How  oft  has  he  protected  me  with  the  edge  of  bis 
sword  1 — ^he,  the  refuge  of  mothers,  fearful  of  being 
bereft  of  their  children ! 

Here  I  dwell,  hoping  for  a  relief  from  my  agonies 
at  his  hand :  to  no  other  will  I  complain. 

(As  Shiboob  rq)eated  these  verses,  streams  flowed  from  the 
eyes  of  Antar.) 

'*I  immediately  turned,**  continued  Shiboob,  "towards  the 
slave^near  whom  I  was  lying :  *  Son  of  my  aunt,'  said  I,  *  why  is 
this  damsel  grieving  ?  Does  she  not  sleep  ?  Does  she  pass  her 
nights  generally  thus?  * — 'Young  man,'  replied  the  slave,  'she 
is  a  foreigner,  and  she  is  a  captive ;  it  is  thus  she  passes  her 
mornings  and  evenings.  Her  name  is  Abla,  daughter  of  Malik, 
the  Absian.' 

"  I  soon  contrived  to  draw  from  him  the  whole  story  :  how 
Moofrij  happened  to  meet  Amarah  and  her;  how  he  took 
Amarah  prisoner,  and  carried  her  home ;  and  when  he  demanded 
of  her  what  man  demands  of  woman,  how  she  used  the  most 
opprobrious  expressions  towards  him — ^threatening  him  with  her 
cousin,  a  fierce  lion,  who  had  raised  himself  from  the  state  of  a 
slave  to  that  of  a  chief;  how  Moofrij  upon  this  treated  her  most 
vilely — stripping  her  of  her  clothes,  and  overwhelming  her  with 


ANTAR  HIMSELF  AGAIN,  247 

cruelties  ;  how  also  he  behaved  in  the  same  manner  to  Amarah— 
handcuffing  and  fettering  him,  until  he  should  ransom  himself 
with  money  and  camels ;  and  that  he  had  sent  to  Rebia  to  rescue 
him  from  misery. 

"  At  hearing  this,  O  son  of  my  mother,  sweet  sleep  abandoned 
my  eyes,  and  I  anxiously  waited  for  the  dawn  of  day,  that  I 
might  hasten  to  you,  and  return  with  my  intelligence.  But  on 
my  way  I  met  the  family  of  Zeead,  travelling  towards  that  tribe. 
I  turned  out  of  the  road,  so  that  they  did  not  see  me  :  and  this 
is  what  I  have  seen  and  heard  during  my  absence. " 


Antar  rescues  his  Beloved. 

When  Shiboob  had  concluded  his  story,  Antar  appeared  to 
be  stupefied  with  rage  and  grief;  but  recovering  himself,  he 
cried,  "  I  must  be  revenged  on  that  family  of  2^ead  ! — I  ^411 
deprive  them  of  their  sweet  slumbers  I "  He  hastened  to  his 
friend  Prince  Malik,  who  conducted  him  to  the  King,  to*  whom 
he  related  Amarah's  ungrateful  return  for  his  services  in  liberating 
him  from  the  Nocturnal  Evil.  Zoheir  was  greatly  exasperated 
at  the  infamous  conduct  of  Amarah,  and  vowed  vengeance  upon 
the  whole  family  of  Zeead.  But  Antar  tells  Prince  Malik  that 
he  will  not  put  the  king  to  any  trouble  on  his  account,  for  he  will 
alone  undertake  the  rescue  of  Abla.  His  friend,  however,  insists 
upon  going  with  him ;  and,  taking  advantage  of  the  king's  absence 
at  the  chase,  he  musters  his  father's  horsemen,  while  Antar 
sunmions  Shedad  and  his  brother  Malik,  with  his  son  Amru ; 
and  the  sun  was  not  yet  high  when  the  warriors,  to  the  number 
of  two  hundred,  set  out  to  revenge  the  insult  that  had  been 
offered  to  the  family  of  Carad,  and  to  the  whole  tribe  of  Abs. 
On  the  way,  Antar,  turning  to  Prince  Malik,  thus  addressed 
him : 

"Truly,  my  lord,  it  is  very  absurd  in  me  to  set  out  to  the 
assistance  of  my  foes.  This  is  the  most  grievous  circumstance  of 
all ;  for  I  am  aware  that,  though  they  become  victorious  by  my 


248  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

means,  they  will  not  let  me  be  quiet  But  it  is  on  Abla's 
account  that  I  act  thus.     Some  poet  has  observed : 

Had  I  a  heart  of  pity  and  compassion  for  myself,  I 
would  not  pass  the  night  grieving  in  the  agony  of  love. 

It  is  extraordinary,  that  from  thine  eyes  I  feel  no 
arrow,  but  still  my  heart  is  pierced  with  shafts. 

I  am  kind  to  thy  friends  in  my  love,  though  they  are 
my  foes ;  and  on  account  of  two  eyes  a  thousand  eyes 
are  respected." 

And  again  addressing  the  Prince,  he  said,  *'  On  Abla's  account 
I  wiU  submit  to  these  pains ; "  adding — 

I  ENDURE  torments  from  my  relations  that  fatigue  me; 
and  I  conceal  from  them  my  passion  and  my  trans- 
ports. 

When  they  question  me,  I  say :  Kill  me ;  for  I  am 
an  oppressive  tyrant. 

They  insult  me,  and  seek  to  separate  me  from  my 
beloved ;  and  she  is  my  hope  and  my  object 

They  long  for  my  death : — it  is  their  sole  wish  to 
see  me  felled  to  the  ground  in  the  day  of  battle. 

But  when  the  foe  comes  upon  them,  they  entreat 
my  aid,  and  are  inclined  to  love  me. 

I  will  have  patience  till  I  obtain  my  desire ;  and  I 
will  punish  the  enemy  by  my  resignation  to  insults. 

Meanwhile  Rebia,  with  two  hundred  horsemen  of  his  family,  is 
advancing  to  the  rescue  of  his  brother  Amarah.  But  Moofiij  has 
timely  warning,  and,  assailing  them,  routs  the  party  and  takes 
thirty  prisoners ;  and  Rebia,  with  the  remnant  of  his  followers. 


A  NIGHT  A TTACK,  249 


retreats  into  the  sand-hills.  There  they  are  in  distress  from 
want  of  water,  and  Rebia  sends  a  messenger  to  Moofrij,  asking 
his  protection  in  order  that  they  might  surrender  themselves  and 
procure  their  ransom  ;  or,  if  he  will  not  consent  to  forego  the  fur- 
ther shedding  of  blood,  at  least  supply  them  with  water.  To  this 
message  Moofrij  returns  the  grim  answer,  that  he  would  furnish 
them  with  water  only  on  the  condition  that  they  throw  away  their 
arms,  and  come  dismounted  before  him ;  when  he  would  shave 
off  their  beards,  and  cut  off  their  noses  and  their  ears ;  after 
which — ^by  Lat  and  Uzza  ! — he  would  hang  them  all.  In  de- 
speration Rebia  and  his  followers  descend  and  commence  another 
attack ;  but,  being  weakened  by  thirst,  the  Teyans  easily  make 
prisoners  of  them  all. 

"  The  night  was  not  far  spent  when  Moofrij  became  intoxicated. 
The  people  had  departed  to  their  respective  tents,  and  every  one 
was  asleep,  when  Moofrij  happened  to  think  of  Abla  ;  and  as  he 
was  considering  how  he  should  complete  his  gratification,  he  re- 
paired to  his  mother,  and  said  :  '  I  wish  you  would  bring  me  that 
Absian  damsel.  If  she  will  not  consent,  I  will  use  her  most 
cruelly  ;  I  will  multiply  her  distresses,  and  slay  her  countrymen.' 
Away  hastened  his  mother  to  Abla. — 'Go  to  your  master  in- 
stantly,' said  she,  'that  he  may  show  some  kindness  to  you  and 
your  countrymen  ;  but  if  you  still  obstinately  refuse  to  yield  to 
him,  dread  his  violence.  * — *  Vile  hag !  *  exclaimed  Abla,  *  were 
your  son  even  to  hack  my  limbs  with  the  sword,  or  to  massacre 
the  whole  tribe  of  Abs,  and  all  that  the  sun  rises  upon,  never 
would  he  see  me  his  property — never  see  me  yield  or  submit  to 
him.  Wishes  he  my  death  ?  I  will  kill  myself  with  my  own 
hand. ' — '  Accursed  wretch  I '  cried  the  old  woman.  She  struck 
her  with  her  fist,  and  ordered  the  slave-girls  to  drag  her  forth,  as 
she  screamed  out, '  O  by  Abs  I  O  by  Adnan  !  who  can  now  save 
me?  who  can  assist  me?  who  can  redeem  me  fix>m  this  cap- 
tivity? Alas !  is  there  any  one  to  deliver  me  from  this  distress? ' " 

That  same  night  the  Teyans  were  surprised  in  their  tents  by  the 
renowned  Antar  and  his  warriors,  ciying,  '  O  by  Abs  I  O  by 
Adnan  ! '  and  sparing  neither  old  nor  young.     While  the  horse- 


250  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR. 

men  were  engaged  in  slajring  or  capturing  the  Teyans,  Shiboob 
released  Rebia  and  his  companions ;  then  roamed  among  the 
tents  in  search  of  Abla,  whom  he  at  length  found  covered  with 
the  bodies  of  the  slain,  and  groaning  like  a  woman  bereft  of 
her  children;  and  while  she  listened  for  the  voice  of  Antar,  thus 
she  exclaimed  : 

O  MY  COUSIN !  ease  my  heart,  and  lead  me  home  by 
the  hand,  for  my  body  is  worn  out  and  my  strength 
fails ! 

For  the  black  hero  I  have  encountered  disgrace. 

My  frame — the  zeph}T:  would  overwhelm  it,  so 
greatly  have  they  exhausted  me  with  eternal  pains : 
my  resignation — it  is  at  an  end. 

My  foes  exult  over  me,  and  I  have  endured  endless 
horrors. 

Convey  me  to  the  protection  of  Antar :  no  one  but 
the  lion  can  defend  the  fawn. 

Tell  him  I  am  in  dismay,  and  my  heart  wanders 
irild  in  its  fears. 

My  eyelids — no  sleep  have  they ;  but  they  mourn 
for  eternal  sleep. 

Shiboob  took  Abla  in  his  arms,  and  brought  her  to  Antar, 
who  pressed  her  to  his  breast,  and  kissed  her  between  the  eyes, 
saying,  "  Grievous  indeed  it  is  to  me  that  you  should  suffer  such 
calamities,  and  I  be  alive  in  the  world  !  But  it  is  the  misfortune 
of  the  times,  against  which  no  human  being  can  find  refuge.** 
He  then  desired  his  brother  to  convey  her  to  the  tent  of  Moofrij 
(who  had  escaped  to  the  sand-hills) ;  and  here  Shiboob  has  the 
satis&ction  of  discovering  aU  Abla*s  property — her  rich  robes  and 
strings  of  jewels — which  he  restores  to  her.     "  Thus  all  her  dis- 


CRAFTY  DEVICE  OF  ABLA'S  FA  THER.       251 


tresses  and  afldictions  vanished,  and  her  hopes  and  wishes  were 
realised." 

As  the  Absians  are  about  to  set  out  for  their  own  country, 
Rebia  and  Amarah  come  up  to  Antar,  and  in  the  most  abject 
manner  implore  his  forgiveness  for  their  infamous  deeds 
"Antar  pitied  them;  and,  feeling  favourably  inclined  towards 
them  on  account  of  his  relationship,  he  embraced  them, 
saying:  'Although  I  am  abused  for  being  black,  my  acts 
are  the  acts  of  the  noble  bom.  * " 

Returning  from  the  land  of  Cahtan,  they  encounter  the  tribes 
of  Jadeelah  and  Nibhan,  and,  after  a  dreadful  battle,  are  vic- 
torious. When  they  had  collected  all  the  spoil,  they  returned  to 
their  tents,  preceded  by  Antar. 

*'Abla  rejoiced  at  his  prowess  and  intrepidity,  and  smiled  ; 
and  as  Antar  saw  her  smile, — '  Daughter  of  my  uncle,'  said  he, 
'  are  you  smiling  at  what  you  saw  me  perform  this  day  in  the  car- 
nage and  combat?' — *  By  the  faith  of  an  Arab,'  she  replied,  *my 
sight  was  bewildered  at  your  slaughter  among  these  wretches  ! ' — 
Her  words  descended  into  his  heart  sweeter  than  the  purest  water 
to  the  thirsty  spirit." 

At  midnight,  the  Absians,  having  first  divided  the  spoil, 
mounted  their  hoises  and  resumed  their  march  home.  When 
the  sun's  rays  began  to  dispel  the  darkness  thqr  discovered  the 
Tejrans,  headed  by  King  Maljem,  son  of  Handhala,  and  his 
brother,  the  Blood-drinker,  in  pursuit  of  them.  On  seeing  the 
number  of  the  enemy,  they  were  disposed  for  flight,  but  Antar 
inspired  them  with  courage,  by  nishing  impetuously  among  the 
Teyans,  dealing  death  and  destruction  with  his  irresistible  sword 
Dhami.  At  this  juncture  the  Absians  are  reinforced  by  troops 
which  King  Zoheir  had  despatched  to  Antar's  assistance,  and  the 
Teyans  are  defeated  with  great  slaughter. 

The  next  day,  Abla's  father,  acting  upon  Rebia's  suggestion, 
begs  Prince  Shas  to  take  Abla  under  his  protection,  to  prevent 
Antar  from  manying  her,  to  which  he  consents;  and  sending 
for  Antar,  he  intimates  to  him  that  henceforth  Abla  shall  be 
under  the  protection  of  his  wife ;  at  the  same  time  reproaching 


252  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

him  for  lusting  after  a  woman  to  whom  he  has  no  claim.  Teaxs 
filled  the  eyes  of  the  hero  as  he  replied,  saying  that  it  was  his 
uncle  Malik  who  had  excited  his  passion ; — ^for  whenever  AUa  is 
a  prisoner,  he  entreats  him  to  liberate  her ;  but  when  she  is  in 
safety,  he  calls  him  a  slave,  and  the  son  of  a  slave-woman. 

Antar  then  goes  to  his  friend  Prince  Malik,  and  acquaints  him 
of  his  uncle*s  new  device  to  thwart  his  union  with  Abla.  The 
Prince  promises  to  carry  her  oflf  for  him — only  let  him  wait  until 
they  return  to  King  Zoheir,  and  he  should  obtain  justice.  But 
the  hero,  unwilling  to  burden  his  friend  vrith  his  distresses,  or  to 
l)e  the  cause  of  dissensions  in  his  tribe,  reserves  to  set  out  secretly 
for  Mecca,  and  there  make  his  complaints  to  the  Lord  of  man- 
kind. 

Antar  goes  to  Mecca. 

At  ni^t,  when  all  was  still,  Antar,  mounted  on  Abjer,  and 
accompanied  by  his  brother  Shiboob,  departs  for  the  Holy 
Shrine.  As  they  travelled  through  the  deserts,  the  hero's  reflec- 
tions found  expression  in  these  verses  : 

If,  O  tear !  thou  canst  not  relieve  me  in  my  sonow, 
perhaps  thou  mayst  quench  the  flame  that  consumes 
roe. 

0  heart!  if  thou  wilt  not  wait  patiently  for  a 
meeting — die,  then,  the  death  of  a  woe-begpne, 
wandering  stranger ! 

How  long  must  I  defy  the  evils  of  Fortune,  and 
encounter  the  vicissitudes  of  night  with  the  Indian 
blade? 

1  serve  a  tribe,  whose  hearts  are  the  reverse  of  what 
they  exhibit  in  their  fondness  for  me. 

I  am,  in  the  field,  the  prince  of  their  tribe ;  but, 
the  battle  over,  I  am  more  despised  than  a  slave. 


THE  HERO  GOES  TO  MECCA.  253 


0  that  I  could  annihilate  this  afifection  of  a  lover ! 
how  it  humiliates  me  ! — it  .  agonizes  my  heart — it 
enfeebles  my  courage. 

But  soon  will  I  seek  the  Sacred  Shrine,  and  com- 
plain of  my  ill-usage  to  the  Judge  against  whose 
decrees  there  lies  no  appeal. 

1  will  renounce  the  days  when  my  tears  deceived 
me ;  and  I  will  aid  the  widowed  and  plaintive  dove. 

On  thee,  O  daughter  of  Malik !  be  the  peace  of 
God  ! — the  blessing  of  a  sorrowing,  heart-grieved 
lover ! 

I  will  depart;  but  my  soul  is  firm  in  its  love  for 
thee ; — have  pity,  then,  on  the  cauterised  heart  of  one 
far  away ! 

Soon  will  my  tribe  remember  me  when  the  horse 
advance — every  noble  warrior  trampling  and  stamping 
over  them : 

Then,  O  daughter  of  Malik !  will  agony  be  plainly 
evident,  when  the  coward  gnaws  his  hands  in  death  ! 

Their  journey  was  marked  with  no  particular  incident  until 
they  drew  near  Mecca,  when  Shiboob  observed  to  his  brother 
that  it  ¥ra8  strange  they  had  met  with  no  adventure  on  the  way. 
Antar  replied  that  he  was  harassed  with  encountering  dangers, 
and  his  heart  was  disgusted  at  fighting;  and  he  quoted  these 
verses : 

Retire  within  yourself,  and  be  familiar  with  solitude  : 
When  you  are  alone,  you  are  in  the  right  road. 
Wild  beasts  are  tamed  by  gentle  treatment  \ 
But  men  are  never  to  be  induced  to  abandon  their 
iniquity. 


254  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

But  presently  they  hear,  in  the  calmness  of  the  night,  a  female 
voice  crying  out,  evidently  in  sore  distress ;  upon  which  Antar 
slackens  his  bridle,  and  gallops  in  the  direction  whence  proceeded 
the  cries.  He  discovers  a  lady,  who  informs  him  that  she  is 
of  the  noble  tribe  of  Kendeh ;  her  husband,  As-hath,  the  son  of 
Obad ;  that  a  famine  having  visited  their  land,  they  were  pro- 
ceeding, with  their  family,  to  the  country  of  Harith,  where  they 
intended  to  settle,  having  a  daughter  married  there,  when  they 
were  attacked  by  a  horseman  of  the  desert,  called  Sudam, 
the  son  of  Salheb,  with  forty  plundering  Arabs,  who  had  slain 
her  three  sons,  wounded  her  husband,  and  taken  herself  and  her 
three  daughters  captive ;  and  that  the  brigands  were  about  to 
convey  them  to  the  mountains  of  Toweila,  there  to  sell  them  as 
slaves.  Consigning  the  ladies  to  the  care  of  his  brother,  Antar 
grasped  his  spear,  and  turned  to  meet  Sudam  and  his  followers, 
whom  he  now  saw  hastily  advancing  towards  him.  The  hero  is 
assailed  by  several  of  the  brigands  at  once,  but  he  cuts  them 
down  on  either  side,  and  at  length  encounters  Sudam,  and, 
striking  him  on  the  breast  with  his  cleaving  Dhami,  the  chief 
falls  to  the  ground  dead,  weltering  in  his  blood. 

The  three  damsels  and  their  mother  crowd  round  their 
deliverer,  kissing  his  hands  and  thanking  him  for  having 
saved  them  from  dishonour ;  and  Antar,  desiring  the  dam- 
sels to  veil  themselves,  and  having  bound  up  the  old  sheikh*s 
wounds,  sat  down  to  rest  himself  after  the  fatigues  of  his 
conflict  The  old  sheikh,  grateful  for  the  good  service  ren- 
<lered  his  family  by  Antar,  offers  him  his  choice  of  his  three 
daughters,  but  Antar  courteously  declines  the  compliment,  saying 
to  the  damsels : 

Were  my  heart  my  own,  I   should  desire  nothing 
beyond  you — it  would  covet  nothing  but  you. 

But  it  loves  what  tortures  it ;  where  no  word,  no 
deed  encourages  it. 


I- 


J 


PRINCE  SHAS  IN  CAPTIVITY,  255 


Having  escorted  the  old  sheikh  and  his  family  to  the  land  of 
Harith,  Antar  took  leave  of  them,  and,  in  company  with  Shiboob, 
proceeded  to  Mecca.  "  He  alighted  in  the  Sacred  Valley,  and 
there  he  resided ;  passing  his  days  in  hunting,  to  relieve  his 
sorrows  and  afflictions,  and  his  nights  with  Shiboob,  in  talking 
over  old  stories  and  past  events.' 


II 


Prince  Shas  in  captivity. 

The  friends  of  Antar  were  much  troubled  at  his  departure,  and 
searched  for  him  in  all  directions  ;  but  his  uncle  was  especially 
gratified,  since  it  left  him  free,  as  he  thought,  to  dispose  of  Abla ; 
and  accordingly  she  is  again  betrothed  to  Amarah — the  contract 
being  formed  by  Abla's  father  and  Amarah  shaking  hands.  But 
Prince  Malik,  grieved  at  this  great  injustice  to  his  absent  friend, 
vows  that  he  will  never  permit  Amarah  to  marry  Abla,  while  he 
lives  to  thwart  his  wicked  plans,  and  those  of  the  maiden's  sordid 
and  crafty  father ;  and  he  predicts  that  evil  will  befal  his  brother 
Shas  for  his  share  in  the  infamous  transaction. 

When  the  Absians  reached  the  lake  of  Zat-ul-irsad,  Prince 
Shas  with  ten  horsemen  went  into  the  desert  in  pursuit  of  the 
antelope.  There  they  are  met  by  a  troop  of  warriors  led  by 
Maisoor,  son  of  Zeead,  of  the  clan  of  Hazrej,  a  branch  of  Harith, 
and  the  little  band  of  Absians  are  all  slain,  with  the  exception  of 
Shas,  who  is  taken  prisoner,  and  barbarously  treated  by  Maisoor, 
whose  brother  the  Prince  had  killed  in  the  conflict. 

Prince  Malik  and  the  others  arrive  in  safety  at  the  dwellings 
of  their  tribe,  and  the  King  is  indignant  when  he  learns  how  the 
noble  Antar  has  been  again  deceived  by  Abla's  father.  He 
severely  rebukes  him  for  his  scandalous  conduct,  and  causes 
Amarah  to  be  scourged  as  a  punishment  for  espousing  Abla, 
when  he  knew  that  she  was  already  betrothed  to  Antar,  and  that 
her  father  was  in  possession  of  the  rich  dowry  which  the  hero 
had  brought  from  Irak.  The  absence  of  Prince  Shas  causes 
the  King  great  uneasiness.  Having  sent  horsemen  into  the 
desert  in  quest  of  him  without  success,  his  affliction  increases, 


256  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

and  he  declares  that  if  Shas  is  slain,  he  will  strike  off  the  head 
of  Amaiah,  and  hang  Malik,  the  son  of  Carad,  because  they  had 
incited  his  son  to  act  basely  towards  Antar. 

In  the  meantime  Shas  is  a  prisoner  in  the  land  of  Harith,  and 
daily  tortured  by  Maisoor,  who  "enclosed  him  between  four  bars 
of  iron,  and  stationed  a  guard  of  slaves  over  him  ;  and  whenever 
he  went  out  he  kicked  him,  and  whenever  he  entered  he  thumped 
him  with  his  fists."  The  chief  of  the  clan,  however,  hearing  of 
this  shameful  treatment  of  a  noble  Arab,  sends  for  Maisoor,  and 
advises  him  to  relax  his  severities  towards  his  prisoner,  which  he 
does,  in  this  manner :  he  hastens  back  to  Shas  and  unties  his 
hands,  but  binds  his  feet ;  then  he  kicks  him  in  the  rear,  and 
places  a  slave  over  him. 

Antar  summoned  from  Mecca  to  rescue  Shas. 

The  unhappy  Prince,  however,  finds  a  friend  in  need  in  the  old 
lady  of  Kendeh,  who,  with  her  IJEunily,  had  been  rescued  firom 
the  brigand  Sudam,  by  Antar,  on  his  way  to  Mecca.  Misfortune 
had  taught  Shas  a  salutary  lesson,  and  he  now  bitterly  repented 
of  his  conduct  towards  the  noble  hero  :  he  assured  the  old  lady 
that  if  ever  he  gained  his  freedom  he  would  henceforth  befriend 
Antar,  and  further  his  union  with  Abla.  Perceiving  the  advan- 
tages which  Antar  would  derive  from  the  friendship  of  Shas,  the 
good  old  lady  despatches  her  husband,  As-hath,  to  Mecca,  to 
acquaint  the  hero  of  Shas'  condition. 

"  With  all  haste  he  traversed  the  plains  till  he  reached  Mecca, 
where  he  inquired  for  Antar;  and  being  directed  to  his  residence, 
he  introduced  himself,  and  told  what  had  happened  to  Shas,  and 
how  he  had  left  him  in  despair. — *  May  God  never  deliver  him 
from  peril  or  death ! '  cried  Shiboob ;  '  for  my  brother  has  no 
such  enemy  among  the  Absians  as  he.' — '  Brother,'  said  Antar, 
'  bear  malice  against  no  man ; '  and  he  repeated  these  verses : 

Do  not  bear  malice,  O  Shiboob ! — renounce  it,  for  no 
good  ever  came  of  malice. 


THE  HERO  SA  VES  PRINCE  SHAS.  257 


Violence  is  infamous:  its  result  is  ever  uncertain, 
and  no  one  can  act  justly  when  actuated  by  hatred. 

Let  my  heart  support  every  evil,  and  let  my  patience 
endure  till  I  have  subdued  all  my  foes. 

"  When  Antar  had  finished,  the  old  man  was  amazed  at  such 
clemency  towards  his  enemies,  strong  and  poweritd  as  he  was. 
That  night  they  reposed  ;  hut  early  next  morning  Antar  said  to 
As-hath,  'Let  us  depart,  O  Sheikh,  before  my  lord  Shas  be 
reduced  to  the  last  extremity  and  be  killed.*  The  sheikh  and 
Antar  were  soon  mounted,  and  Shiboob  started  in  front  of  them, 
making  the  wild  beasts  and  antelopes  fly  before  him." 

But  before  Antar  can  come  to  his  deliverance,  Maisoor  has  de- 
termined to  hang  Prince  Shas  without  further  delay,  and  the  old 
lady  of  Kendeh  therefore  enables  him  to  escape,  in  the  disguise 
of  a  slave,  directing  him  to  take  the  road  to  Mecca.  Having 
rested  during  the  night  in  a  mountain-cave,  the  Prince  resumes 
his  flight  at  daybreak,  and  meets  with  a  party  of  the  tribe  of 
Riyan,  one  of  whom  mistakes  him  for  a  slave  who  lately  stole  his 
horse.  He  tells  them  that  he  is  Shas,  the  son  of  Zoheir ;  but  un- 
fortunately his  captors  are  enemies  of  his  tribe ;  and  they  are  about 
to  put  him  to  death,  when  they  discover  a  man  running  towards 
them  with  the  speed  of  the  wind,  and  close  behind  him  two  horse- 
men. These  are  Shiboob  and  the  noble  Antar  and  As-hath. 
The  hero,  with  his  sword  Dhami,  and  Shiboob,  with  his  arrows, 
soon  make  all  the  warriors  to  bite  the  dust,  save  one,  who  escapes 
on  a  swift  camel. 

Prince  Shas  expresses  his  contrition  to  Antar,  and  promises  to 
make  him  ample  amends  for  the  past.  Antar  having  presented 
to  As-hath  all  the  horses  and  plunder,  the  old  sheikh  takes  his 
leave,  and  departs  for  his  own  country ;  while  the  hero  and  Prince 
Shas  begin  their  journey  to  the  land  of  Hejaz,  with  the  trusty 
Shiboob  for  their  guide.  On  the  fifth  day  they  reached  the 
waters  of  the  tribe  of  Akhram,  where  they  rested  for  the  night. 

R 


258  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


Antar  had  a  delightful  dream  of  his  beloved  Abla,  and  in  the 
morning,  when  he  awoke,  he  thus  recited  : — 

The  dear  image  of  Abla  visited  in  sleep  the  vic- 
tim of  love,  intoxicated  with  affliction. 

I  arose  to  complain  of  my  sufferings  from  love,  and 
the  tears  from  my  eyes  bedewed  the  earth. 

I  kissed  her  teeth — I  smelled  the  fragrance  of  musk 
and  the  purest  ambergris. 

I  raised  up  her  veil,  and  her  countenance  was 
brilliant,  so  that  Night  became  unveiled. 

She  deigned  to  smile,  and  looked  most  lovely ;  and 
I  saw  in  her  eye  the  lustre  of  the  full  moon. 

She  is  environed  with  swords  and  calamitous  spears, 
and  about  her  dwelling  prowls  the  lion  of  the  land. 

O  Abla !  love  for  thee  lives  in  my  bones,  with  my 
blood ;  as  long  as  life  animates  my  frame,  there  will 
it  flow. 

O  Shas !  I  am  persecuted  with  a  deadly  passion, 
and  the  flame  of  the  fire  blazes  still  fiercer. 

O  Shas  !  were  not  the  influence  of  love  over- 
powering every  resolution,  thou  wouldst  not  thus 
have  subdued  Antar  I 

Thb  Hero  encounters  Roudha,  a  gallant  horseman, 

GOING  A- WOOING  TO  AbLA. 

Shiboob  continued  to  guide  his  brother  and  Prince  Shas  in 
safety  past  many  hostile  tril)cs,  and  on  the  eleventh  day  they 
reached  the  country  called  Zat-ul-ialam.  **In  the  middle  of 
the  plain  they  met  six  howdahs,  upon  six  camels ;  and  over  each 
howdah  was  a  crescent  of  polished  gold,  with  hangings  of  mag- 


ANTAR  MEETS  A  NOBLE  RIVAL.  259 

nificent  velvet ;  and  round  the  howdahs  rode  a  troop  of  sturdy 
slaves,  armed  with  shields  and  sharp  swords.  The  whole  caval- 
cade was  preceded  by  a  knight  in  whom  fortitude  and  intrepidity 
shone  conspicuous.  He  was  close-vizored  and  broad-shouldered ; 
over  his  body  was  a  corslet  that  enveloped  his  limbs ;  upon  his 
head  was  an  Aadite  helmet,  like  a  raised  canopy ;  he  was  girt 
with  a  well-watered  scimitar,  and  a  well-proportioned  spear  was 
slung  round  him ;  and  beneath  him  was  a  white  horse,  of  the 
noblest  breed  ;  and,  like  a  ferocious  lion,  he  marched  in  front  of 
the  howdahs  and  the  camels." 

This  horseman  was  Roudha,  the  son  of  Meneea,  who,  like 
Amarah,  had  fallen  in  love  with  the  daughter  of  Malik,  from 
descriptions  he  had  heard  of  her  beauty ;  and  he  was  now  on  the 
way  to  the  tribe  of  Abs,  with  rich  presents  for  Abla,  and  accom- 
panied by  his  mother  and  his  five  sisters — eager  to  encounter 
Antar,  or  any  other  famed  knight  who  would  oppose  him,  for 
Abla*s  sake. 

A  combat,  of  course,  ensues  between  Antar  and  Roudha,  in 
which  the  Absian  hero  unhorses  his  antagonist,  but  spares  his 
life  and  grants  his  liberty  on  the  intercession  of  his  mother  and 
sisters ;  and  Roudha,  full  of  admiration  and  gratitude  for  his 
clemency,  begs  Antar's  acceptance  of  the  presents  he  had  intended 
for  Abla,  and  returns  home. 

Prince  Shas  and  Antar  at  length  reach  the  land  of  their  tribe, 
and  are  heartily  welcomed  by  the  King  and  all  the  noble  warriors 
of  Abs.  The  hero's  time-serving  uncle  congratulates  him  on  his 
return,  and  declares  that  Antar  shall  be  married  to  Abla  that 
very  night.  "Shcdad  thought  the  world  too  narrow  for  the 
extent  of  his  joy  on  the  arrival  of  his  son :  his  mother,  Zebeebah, 
kissed  him,  as  she  said,  '  If  you  would  but  stay  and  tend  the 
camels  with  me,  my  heart  would  be  relieved  from  the  pain  of 
all  these  terrible  events.'  Antar  smiled,  and  composed  her." 
The  King  celebrates  the  return  of  Shas  and  Antar  with  a  grand 
feast,  at  which  all  the  sons  of  Zoheir  warmly  profess  their 
friendship  for  the  hero. 


36o  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


Antar   undertakes   another   enterprise   for 

Abla's  sake. 

Thus,  once  more,  every  obstacle  to  Antar*s  marriage  appears 
to  be  removed ;  but  in  reality  his  treacherous  uncle  is  as  much 
averse  as  ever  to  his  union  with  Abla,  and  he  soon  devises 
another  stratagem  to  bring  about  the  hero's  death.  Artfully 
instructed  by  her  father,  Abla  demands  of  Antar  that  at  her 
marriage  she  should  be  as  exalted  as  was  Jaida,  the  daughter 
of  Zahir :  when  she  was  married  to  her  cousin  Khalid,  the  son  of 
Moharib,  the  bridle  of  her  camel  was  held  by  the  daughter 
of  Moawiyah,  son  of  Nizal.  The  hero  boldly  promises  that 
at  Abla's  marriage  Jaida  herself  shall  hold  her  bridle,  with 
Khalid's  head  slung  round  her  neck.  To  this  wild  proposal 
the  father  of  Abla  pretends  opposition  ;  but,  as  he  had  antici- 
pated, Antar  is  resolute ;  and  that  same  night  the  hero,  eager  to 
gratify  the  wishes  of  his  darling  Abla,  set  out  on  his  perilous 
enterprise,  exclaiming : 

I  TRAVERSE  the  wastes,  and  the  night  is  gloomy :  I 
stray  over  the  wilds,  and  the  sands  are  parching; 
I  desire  no  other  companion  but  the  sword,  whether, 
on  the  day  of  horrors,  the  foe  be  few  or  numerous. 

Ye  beasts  of  the  desert  I  beware  of  the  warrior ;  for 
when  he  brandishes  his  scimitar,  caution  avails  not 

Accompany  me  :  ye  will  behold  prostrate  carcasses, 
and  the  birds  darting  at  them  as  they  hover  and  look 
on. 

Now  that  I  am  going  in  quest  of  him,  no  eternity  is 
there  for  Khalid. 

No,  no ;  let  Jaida  no  longer  boast ; — ^short  will  be 
the  happiness  of  their  country — soon  will  the  tiger 
come ! 


STORY  OF  JAW  A  AND  KHAUD,  261 

O  Abla  !  may  the  riches  that  come  for  thee  rejoice 
thee,  when  Fortune  casts  me  among  thy  enemies  ! 

O  thou,  who,  with  one  glance  of  the  eye,  hast  ex- 
posed my  life  to  deadly  arrows,  whose  wounds  are 
frightful — it  is  well  \  for  thy  embrace  is  an  unadulte* 
rated  paradise,  and  the  flames  of  separation  from  thee 
cannot  be  endured. 

O  Mount  Saadi !  may  showers  from  the  rain-cloud 
ever  moisten  thee,  and  may  the  dew  ever  refresh  thy 
lands! 

How  many  nights  have  I  travelled  in  thy  society, 
and  lived  in  happiness,  unalloyed  by  pain,  with  the 
damsel  who  circles  the  goblets,  and  whose  form  shines 
among  them  like  the  flame  of  wine  ! 

The  maiden  who  passes  them  round  is  of  the 
daughters  of  Arabia,  elegantly  formed,  and  Paradise 
is  in  her  eye. 

If  I  live,  it  is  she  whom  I  will  ever  remember :  if 
I  die,  a  night  in  death  with  her  will  be  existence! 

Stobt  of  Jaida  and  Khalid. 

Moharib  and  Zahir,  the  fathers  respectively  of  Khalid  and 
Jaida,  were  brothers.  Moharib  was  chief  of  the  tribe  of  Zebeed, 
and  Zahir  was  his  counsellor.  The  brothers  quarrelled,  and 
Zahir  struck  his  tents,  and  cast  his  lot  with  the  kindred  tribe  of 
Saad.  Zahir's  wife  becoming  pregnant,  he  said  to  her  that  if  a 
son  were  bom,  he  would  be  most  welcome ;  but  if  a  girl,  then  she 
was  to  conceal  the  fact,  and  let  it  appear  to  the  world  that  they 
had  a  male  child,  in  order  that  his  brother  should  not  exult  over 
him.     In  due  course  a  daughter  was  bon)»  and  was  called,  in 


262  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


privatei  Jaida,  but  Jooder  in  public,  that  it  might  appear  she  was 
a  boy.  About  the  same  time  Moharib  had  a  son  bom  to  him, 
whom  he  called  Khalid.  The  daughter  of  Zahir  was  brought 
up  as  a  boy,  and  taught  to  ride  on  horseback ;  and  soon  she 
became  famous  in  all  the  exercises  befitting  a  noble  warrior — 
«ccompan3dng  her  father  to  battle,  in  which  she  ever  took  a 
prominent  part.  Khalid  was  also  one  of  the  most  illustrious- 
horsemen  of  the  age,  universally  acknowledged  as  an  intrepid 
warrior  and  a  valiant  hero. 

The  fame  of  his  cousin  Jooder  (Jaida)  having  reached  him, 
Khalid,  after  his  father*s  death,  visited  his  uncle,  and  spent 
ten  dajrs  in  jousting  with  the  horsemen  of  the  family.  Jaida 
became  deeply  enamoured  of  him,  and  her  mother,  on  learning 
this,  revealed  the  secret  of  her  sex  to  Khalid's  mother,  and 
suggested  that  their  children  should  be  united  in  marriage. 
But  when  Khalid  was  told  by  his  mother  that  his  cousin  was  a 
woman,  he  was  greatly  chagrined,  slighted  her  love  for  him,  and 
hastened  back  to  his  own  tribe. 

Jaida,  enraged  at  finding  herself  thus  scorned,  resolved  to  be 
revenged  on  her  cousin,  and  disguising  herself,  she  set  out  for 
the  land  of  Zebeed.  Arrived  there,  she  entered  a  tent  of  public 
entertainment,  close-vizored,  like  a  horseman  of  Hejaz.  After 
proving  her  superiority  over  the  best  horsemen  in  the  course, 
she  encountered  Khalid  for  three  days  in  succession,  without 
either  of  them  obtaining  any  advantage ;  when  she  discovered 
herself  to  her  cousin,  whose  hatred  was  now  suddenly  converted 
into  love.     But  Jaida  rejected  him,  and  returned  home. 

Khalid  hastened  to  his  uncle  and  demanded  Jaida  in  marriage. 
His  cousin  at  length  consents,  on  condition  that  he  provide  for 
slaughter  at  her  wedding-feast  a  thousand  camels  belonging  ta 
Gheshm,  son  of  Malik,  sumamed  the  Brandisher  of  Spears. 
These  Khalid  procured  by  plundering  the  tribe  of  Aamir ;  but 
on  his  return,  Jaida  imposed  a  further  condition — that  her  camel 
should  be  led  by  the  captive  daughter  of  a  prince.  Khalid  again 
set  out  with  his  horsemen,  and,  assailing  the  family  tribe  of 
Moawiyah,  son  of  Nizal,  took  captive  his  daughter  Amimah; 


EXPLOITS  IN  THE  LAND  OF  ZEBEED,     263 

and  his  marriage  with  Jaida  took  place  immediately  after  his 
return ;  when  the  daughter  of  Moawiyah  held  the  bridle  of  her 
camel, ''  and  the  glory  of  Jaida  was  exalted  among  women  and 
among  men." 

Antar  in  the  Land  of  Zebeed. 

On  reaching  the  country  of  the  Zebeedians,  Antar  finds  Khalid 
absent  on  a  plundering  expedition,  but  he  is  met  by  Jaida  on 
horseback,  armed  as  a  knight.  The  warlike  lady  boldly  en- 
counters Antar :  she  is  vanquished,  and  taken  prisoner.  Zohdr 
having  summoned  his  warriors  and  set  out  to  join  Antar,  the 
father  of  Abla  avails  himself  of  this  opportunity  of  again  quitting 
the  tribe,  and  accordingly  Malik  emigrates  with  his  family,  and 
accompanied  by  Rebia,  to  the  tribe  of  Aamir.  But  here  his 
usual  ill-fortune  follows  him ;  for  the  Aamirites  are  presently 
attacked  by  Khalid  and  his  warriors,  and  Malik  and  Rebia  are 
taken  captive.  Returning  home,  Khalid  meets  the  Absians, 
and  a  desperate  battle  ensues,  with  great  slaughter  on  both  sides. 
During  the  following  night  Antar  and  Khalid  keep  watch  over 
their  respective  tribes  :  the  two  chiefs  meet ;  Khalid  is  slain  by 
the  all-conquering  hero,  and  Shiboob  cuts  off  his  head  as  a  trophy 
to  grace  Abla's  wedding.  Meantime  a  general  battle  takes  place, 
in  which  the  Absians  are  completely  victorious.  After  the 
horsemen  of  Abs  had  returned  from  pursuing  the  enemy  and 
collected  the  spoil,  Antar  inquired  for  Jaida,  but  she  had 
escaped ;  Malik  and  his  daughter  too  were  nowhere  to  be  found ; 
and  the  hero  passed  a  sleepless  night,  lamenting  the  loss,  once 
more,  of  his  darling  Abla. 

At  daybreak  the  noble  Absian  warriors  set  out  for  home,  and 
as  they  drew  near  the  tents  of  their  tribe,  '*  high  and  low  came 
out  to  meet  them,  and  it  was  a  grand  day  for  them  all. "  When 
friends  had  greeted  friends,  all  retired  to  their  tents ;  but  Antar 
remained  gazing  sorrowfully  upon  the  abandoned  and  ruined 
dwelling  of  Abla ;  and  leaning  on  his  spear,  in  a  voice  expressive 


264  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


of  his  poignant  grief,  be  recited  these  verses,  which  form  the 
opening  of  his  famous  Modllacah : 

Have  the  poets  left  aught  to  be  repaired  in  song? 
Canst  thou  recollect  the  abode  of  thy  love,  after  long 
meditation  ? 

O  dwelling  of  my  Abla !  Speak  to  me  from  Jiwa  ! 
Hail  to  thee,  dwelling  of  my  Abla  1  secure  and  safe  be 
thou ! 

Address  to  the  Turtle-Dove. 

Soon  after  his  return  from  the  land  of  Zebeed,  Antar  was 
present  at  a  feast,  given  by  the  tribe  of  Fazarah  to  the  Absians, 
in  a  spacious  meadow,  abounding  in  springs  and  fountains,  trees 
and  flowers.  The  wine  cups  went  merrily  round,  and  beautiful 
maidens  sang  the  most  enchanting  melodies.  But  Antar  thought 
only  of  his  lost  darling ;  and  going  out  of  the  tent,  he  heard  the 
melancholy  voice  of  the  turtle-dove,  and  thus  he  expressed  his 
feelings : 

O  BIRD  of  the  tamarisk !  thou  hast  rendered  my 
sorrows  more  poignant — thou  hast  redoubled  ray 
griefs. 

O  bird  of  the  tamarisk  !  if  thou  invokest  an  absent 
friend  for  whom  thou  art  mourning — even  then,  O 
Bird,  is  thy  afRiction  like  the  distress  I  also  feel  ? 

Augment  my  sorrows  and  my  lamentations ;  aid  me 
to  weep  till  thou  seest  wonders  from  the  discharge  of 
my  eyelids ! 

Weep,  too,  from  the  excesses  that  I  endure ; — ^fear 
not — only  guard  the  trees  from  the  breath  of  my 
burning  sighs. 


TIDINGS  OF  ABLA.  265 

Quit  me  not  till  I  die  of  love — die  victim  of  passion, 
of  absence,  and  separation  1 

Fly ! — perhaps  in  the  Hejaz  thou  mayst  see  some 
one  riding  from  Aalij  to  Nomani,  wandering  with  a 
damsel,  she  traversing  wilds,  and  drowned  in  tears, 
anxious  for  her  native  land. 

May  God  inspire  thee,  O  Dove !  when  thou  truly 
seest  her  loaded  camels. 

Announce  my  death:  say,  thou  hast  left  him 
stretched  on  the  earth,  and  that  his  tears  are 
exhausted,  but  that  he  weeps  in  blood. 

Should  the  breeze  ask  thee  whence  thou  art,  say : 
He  is  deprived  of  his  heart  and  stupefied ;  he  is  in  a 
strange  land,  weeping  for  our  departure ;  for  the  God 
of  heaven  has  struck  him  with  affliction  on  account  of 
his  beloved. 

He  is  lying  down  like  a  tender  bird,  that  vultures 
and  eagles  have  bereft  of  its  young ;  that  grieves  in 
unceasing  plaints,  whilst  its  offspring  are  scattered  over 
the  plain  and  the  desert 

The  matrimonial  schemes  of  Abla's  Father  again 

COME  to  naught. 

Shiboob  having  been  despatched  by  the  sorrowing  hero  to 
obtain  tidings  of  Abia,  after  many  days  he  returns  with  a  message 
of  love  from  her  to  Antar ;  but  also  with  the  unpleasant  intelli- 
gence that  her  father,  now  dwelling  in  the  tribe  of  Shiban,  had 
promised  Abla  in  marriage  to  Bostam,  the  son  of  Prince  Kais,  on 
condition  that  he  brought  him  Antar's  head  as  her  dowry. 

Bostam  accordingly  sets  out  for  the  land  of  Abs,  meets  Antar, 
and  is  vanquished  in  combat  with  the  hero.    Shiboob  comes  to 


266  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

report  the  capture  of  all  the  women  of  Shiban  by  the  tribe  of 
Temeen.  Bostam  offers  his  assistance  in  rescuing  Abla ;  Antar 
releases  him ;  and  together  they  proceed  to  take  vengeance 
on  the  despoilers.  Again  the  hero  rescues  Abla  from  cap- 
tivity; and  as  he  gazed  upon  her,  bathed  in  tears  of  joy, 
thus  he  addressed  his  darling : 

Hail  !  I  greet  thee,  branch  of  the  tamarisk ! — wel- 
come to  the  new  moon  of  the  desert  and  the  dty ! 

O  Abla  !  thy  form  during  my  absence  was  ever  in 
the  core  of  my  heart  and  my  eye. 

Since  thou  hast  been  absent,  all  my  joys  have  been 
absent — all  my  pleasures  closed  ;  and  my  blood-shot 
eyes  have  passed  the  nights  in  sleeplessness : 

Never  has  slumber  visited  me  since  I  quitted 
thy  form. 

O  thou  full  moon  of  obscurity,  in  truth,  thou  face  of 
the  moon  itself!  were  I  to  complain  of  what  I  have 
endured  in  sorrow,  I  should  fail  to  describe — ^by 
the  truth  of  the  Shrine  and  the  Stone . — ^what  I 
suffered  in  the  horrors  of  my  journey,  and  the 
jealousies  I  have  been  subject  to  from  my  relations. 

How  many  horsemen,  whom  I  have  encountered  in 
the  barren  waste,  have  been  laid  low  on  the  earth, 
and  in  the  tombs ! 

Keshaab,  son  of  Ghayath,  lies  prostrate — on  the 
day  of  horrors  felled  by  my  Indian  blade  ! 

These  shall  ever  be  my  deeds  with  the  foe  as  long 
as  the  sun  shines,  and  as  long  as  the  morning  star 
glitters  at  the  dawn. 


SHIBOOB  IN  MASQUERADE.  267 


I  am  the  son  of  Shedad,  and  the  lion  to  whom 
every  one  that  dwells  in  the  desert  or  in  towns  bows 
in  submission. 

His  uncle  Malik  also  wept  (crocodile's  tears),  and  once  more 
renewed  to  him  his  promise  of  Abla's  hand.  The  crafty  old 
fellow,  however,  persuades  Antar  to  return  home,  on  a  vain 
errand,  and  as  soon  as  he  is  gone,  again  flees  with  his  daughter  ; 
but  Antar  gets  word  of  this,  and  pursues  him.  Malik  places 
himself  and  his  family  under  the  protection  of  King  Amru,  of 
Kendeh,  and  espouses  Abla  to  Mas-hil,  the  king's  nephew. 

Shiboob  in  masquerade  at  the  tents  of  Kendeh. 

Shortly  before  the  appointed  day  of  Abla's  bridal,  Antar 
arrived  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  tribe.  Shiboob  disguised 
himself  as  a  woman,  and,  with  a  water-bag  slung  over  his 
shoulders,  sought  the  tents  of  Kendeh. 

"  He  perceived  the  tents  destitute  of  horsemen,  for  they  were 
gone  out  to  the  plain,  and  the  families  were  occupied  in  festivities. 
The  unmarried  girls  were  playing  about,  and  beating  the  cymbals 
and  musical  instruments,  and  the  slaves  were  brandishing  their 
swords  and  shields,  and  their  countenances  appeared  glistening 
with  joy.  When  Shiboob  saw  this,  he  advanced  towards  them, 
and  mixing  with  them,  looked  towards  a  tent,  on  the  outside 
of  which  was  a  brilliant  illumination  of  lamps  and  candles. 
Being  convinced  that  this  must  be  the  nuptial  pavilion,  he 
made  a  great  noise,  and  began  to  play,  and  mingled  with  the 
women  and  slave-girls,  and  danced  till  he  attracted  the  attention 
of  all  present,  and  they  all  crowded  round  him,  staring  at  him 
whilst  he  sang,  for  he  knew  his  voice  would  reach  Abla : 

Fawn  of  the  huntsman,  thy  captor  is  come :  say  not 
he  is  not  come ;  lo !  here  he  is — certain  are  all  thy 
hopes  1 — ^rejoice  in  the  aid  of  the  sword  of  thy  hero ! 


268  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

Understand  the  tale  I  tell  thee  :  how  long  wilt  thou 
delay?  Joy  is  now  descending  on  thy  home>  and  will 
ever  endure,  summer  and  winter. 

"  Now  Abla  was  at  that  moment  listening  to  the  mnac  finom 
the  tent.  She  signified  her  wish  to  sing  and  play  with  the  other 
damseb,  and  thus  addressed  Shiboob : 

O  WANDERER  of  the  desert,  dancer  of  the  tent ! — the 
lion  is  the  noble  animal  that  affords  refuge  after  excess 
of  pain — this  is  indeed  a  period  of  my  joy  in  thee  1 

All  my  sorrows  and  griefs  have  vanished.  My  joy 
depends  on  thee,  O  Chief !  Approach,  for  I  am  here 
as  one  dead ! 

"  When  Shiboob  heard  these  words,  he  pretended  being  tired, 
and  sat  down  near  the  tent.  Just  at  that  time  Abla  also  appeared 
and  looked  at  him,  and,  as  he  was  dressed  in  woman's  clothes — 
*  This  damsel  cannot  be  a  Kendeyan  maid,'  she  said :  'she  must 
be  a  damsel  of  Shedad's."  Then  went  pit-a-pat  Shiboob's  heart ; 
but  he  turned  towards  her,  and  calmed  her  mind,  and  uncovered 
his  face.  She  recognised  him.  '  O  Shiboob ! '  said  she,  '  where 
is  my  cousin  Antar  ?' — '  Here  he  is,'  replied  Shiboob,  *  hard  by; 
and  with  him  his  friend  Oorwah,  and  a  hundred  horsemen.  We 
arrived  here  last  night,  and  I  am  come  to  procure  intelligence 
of  you  :  I  shall  return  and  inform  him.' — '  Shiboob,'  said  she, 
'there  are  still  three  days  for  the  marriage  with  Mas-hil,  son 
of  Tarak;  but  let  that  rather  be  the  means  of  separation. 
Return  immediately  and  tell  him  my  situation ;  but  let  him 
not  think  of  assaulting  the  tribe ;  he  must  lie  in  vmit  for  me 
till  I  set  out :  then  let  him  rush  forth,  and  slay  aU  that  are 
with  me.  Do  you  seize  the  bridle  of  my  camel,  and  we  will 
return  to  our  native  land.  All — all  must  taste  of  death ;  bid 
Antar  not  to  spare  even  my  father.' 


MALIK'S  SCHEMES  AGAIN  FOILED,         269 

"  Shiboob,  having  heard  this,  returned  to  Antar,  and  related 
to  him  all  that  Abla  had  told  him. " 

Antar  forms  his  plans  accordingly ;  and,  waylaying  the  bridal 
party,  slays  Mas-hil,  and  seizes  his  uncle  Malik.  The  Kendeyans 
are  attacked  by  Bostam,  and  the  Absians,  led  by  Zoheir*s  sons, 
arrive  to  the  aid  of  Antar.  The  Princes  reproach  Antar  for 
leaving  them,  and  abuse  his  uncle  for  his  infamous  conduct. 
Antar  magnanimously  offers  to  make  no  demand  upon  his  uncle, 
if  he  will  go  back  to  the  land  of  Abs  with  his  daughter ;  but 
he  must  marry  her  to  no  one  else.  Malik  is  thus  compelled 
to  return  with  Abla  to  his  own  tribe ;  while  Antar  determines  to 
reside  for  some  time  with  his  friend  Bostam  in  Shiban.  But  his 
passion  for  the  daughter  of  Malik  soon  sends  him  forth  again  in 
quest  of  her,  and  as  he  traversed  the  wastes  he  recited  : 

When  the  zeph)n:  gently  blows,  its  breath  relieves 
the  sickened  heart,  and  brings  me  news  of  the  damsel 
and  of  those  I  love,  who  are  travelling  on  their 
journey. 

Regardless  are  they  of  whom  they  have  left  behind, 
cast  down  and  dead  in  the  land  of  love ; — one  who 
has  quitted  their  country,  and  roams  anxious  about 
them,  wheresoever  they  drive  their  baggage-camels. 

Indeed,  O  Abla !  they  have  betrayed  my  vows ; — it 
is  thy  father  that  is  ungrateful  for  favours. 

I  have  borne  sorrows  and  absence  patiently,  even  in 
my  weak  state ;  and  I  have  defied  the  railers. 

I  am  accustomed  to  grief,  so  that  my  body,  were  it 
to  lose  its  pains,  would  sigh  after  its  emaciated  state. 

The  raven  taunts  it,  as  if  it  had  been  one  that  had 
destroyed  its  plundered  yoimg : 

It  weeps,  and  the  torrents  of  my  tears  sympathise 
with  it  \ — ^it  sighs,  and  my  woes  cruelly  increase ; — ^it 


270  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

passes  the  night  in  anguish  for  the  loss  of  its  mate,  for 
whose  absence  it  mourns  the  live-long  night 

I  said  to  it :  Thou  hast  wounded  the  inmost  recesses 
of  my  heart :  ever  is  thy  grief  a  mental  disease. 

I  have  shed  tears  from  my  eyes,  and  my  native 
home  and  country  excite  all  my  interest 

Absence  has  left  me  no  soul,  no  body,  in  which, 
miserable  as  I  am,  I  can  live. 

Wert  thou  to  take  off  the  armour  from  it,  thou 
wouldst  see  beneath  it  only  a  ruined  vestige;  and 
on  those  worn-out  remains  is  a  coffin-sword,  whose 
edge  would  notch  the  bright-polished  scimitar. 

I  am  so  accustomed  to  the  calamities  of  Fortune, 
that  all  their  vastness  appears  but  trifling  to  me. 

Antar  finds  his  uncle  lying  in  the  desert,  desperately  wounded, 
his  party  having  been  attacked  by  Anis,  son  of  Madiaka,  the 
Kitaamite,  and  Abla  and  her  brother  taken  prisoners.  He 
pursues  this  chief,  rescues  Abla  and  Amru,  and  returns  to  the 
land  of  Abs  with  his  uncle's  family. 

Attempted  Murder  of  Abla. 

A  fresh  plot  is  formed  by  Rebia,  the  brother  of  Amarah,  to 
thwart  Antar*s  marriage.  Rebia  employs  a  female  slave  to  decoy 
Abla  to  the  lake,  one  evening,  on  pretence  of  her  meeting  with 
Antar,  when  she  is  carried  off,  and  concealed  in  the  land  of 
Shiban.  The  slave-girl  soon  afterwards  discovers  the  iniquitous 
affair,  and  Rebia  is  compelled  to  leave  the  tribe.  He  proceeds 
to  Shiban,  where  he  finds  Mooferrij,  the  friend  who  had  charge 
of  Abla,  In  terror  lest  Antar  should  come  to  know  of  his  share  in 
the  transaction.  They  determine  to  have  Abla  murdered  and 
buried  in  the  sand-hills,  so  as  to  leave  no  trace  of  her.    A  slave. 


THE  HERO  QUITS  HIS  TRIBE.  271 

named  Basharah,  accordingly  carries  Abla  into  the  desert,  and  is 
about  to  deal  her  a  fatal  blow  with  his  poniard,  when  a  man 
suddenly  pounces  upon  him,  strikes  him  with  a  da^er  between 
the  shoulders,  and  the  assassin  falls  to  the  earth,  bathed  in 
blood. 

The  deliverer  of  Abla  was  Shiboob,  who  chanced  to  pass  that 
way  in  quest  of  her.  Basharah,  however,  was  not  killed,  though 
badly  hurt.  He  disclosed  the  chief  actors  in  the  murderous 
plot,  and,  with  Shiboob's  consent,  he  placed  Abla  under  the 
care  of  his  own  mother,  living  at  a  distant  place ;  and  there 
she  remained  until  Antar  found  an  opportunity  of  exposing 
Rebia's  guilt  to  the  King. 

The  Hero  quits  his  Tribe. 

But  at  length  Antar's  love  for  Abla  is  the  cause  of  so  many 
dissensions  in  the  tribe  that  King  Zoheir  requests  him  to  depart. 
The  noble  hero,  with  his  father  and  uncles,  accordingly  quits  the 
land  of  Abs.  After  plundering  the  tribe  of  Fazarah,  the  warriors 
of  Carad,  led  by  Antar,  invade  the  land  of  Shiban ;  and  this  was 
the  hero's  spirited  war-song,  before  assailing  Mooferrij,  who  had 
concealed  Abla  from  him,  and  whom  he  took  prisoner  : 

The  morning  of  thrusts  in  the  field  of  battle  (where 
wine  is  not  put  round  in  glasses)  is  dearer  to  me  than 
the  varied  amusements  with  the  cup,  and  the  ewer, 
and  the  flowers ; — 

My  wine  is  indeed  that  which  gushes  about  the 
spear's  point,  when  the  war-steeds  trample. 

I  am  the  slave  of  whom  it  shall  be  reported  that  I 
encountered  a  thousand  free-bom  heroes:  my  heart 
was  created  harder  than  steel ;  how,  then,  can  I  fear 
sword  or  spear? 


-  I 


272  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

I  have  met  the  chargers,  and  I  cared  not :  I  am 
raised  above  Arcturus,  and  the  Lyre,  or  the  Eagle : 
when  the  warrior  beholds  me,  he  avoids  me,  his 
courage  fails,  and  he  flies. 

Ye  have  indulged  a  thought,  ye  people  of  Shiban, 
but  my  horse  and  my  perseverance  have  thwarted 
your  imagination. 

Ask  Rebia  of  me,  when  he  came  against  me  with 
the  chiefs  of  Beder : 

I  took  their  chiefs  prisoners,  and  only  quitted  them 
when  I  had  dispersed  them  over  every  desert 

Here,  now,  again  I  come  forth,  and  in  you  will  I 
appease  my  heart,  and  allay  my  bosom : 

I  will  seize  the  property  of  Abla  with  my  sword, 
and  the  Lord  of  the  Balcony  shall  acknowledge  my 
power. 


NuMAN,  King  op  Hirah,  makes  war  against  King 
ZoHEiR — THE  Hero  saves  his  country. 

• 

King  Zoheir  had  soon  cause  to  wish  for  the  presence  of  the 
champion  of  Abs  and  Adnan.  Having  refused  to  give  his 
daughter  in  marriage  to  Numan,  King  of  Hirah,  the  latter  sends 
his  brother,  Prince  Aswad,  with  a  lai^e  army  to  lay  waste  the  land 
of  Abs ;  and  Antar  patriotically  resolves  to  assist  his  sovereign 
and  old  friend  in  repelling  the  invaders.  The  army  of  Prince 
Aswad  was  destroyed  by  a  stratagem  of  Shiboob,  who  con- 
trived to  obtain  access  to  their  water-bags,  and,  cutting  them 
open,  allowed  all  the  water  to  escape.  Weakened  by  thirst, 
they  were  easily  vanquished  by  a  very  small  force  of  Absians, 
and,  among  others,  Prince  Aswad  was  taken  prisoner. 


ANTAR  RELEASES  HIS  PRISONERS.         273 


Meanwhile  the  renowned  female  warrior,  Jaida,  who  had  been 
captured  by  Antar  and  aftervrards  escaped,  set  out  from  her  own 
country  to  take  vengeance  on  the  hero  for  the  death  of  Khalid. 
She  did  not  meet  Antar,  however,  but,  attacking  a  party  of 
Absians,  she  took  Malik  and  Abla  prisoners ;  then  she  went 
to  Irak,  and  delivered  them  to  Numan,  who  declared  that  he 
would  hang  Abla  beside  Antar,  and  would  not  leave  a  single 
Absian  alive.  But  when  he  heard  of  Antar*s  great  victory  over 
his  brother's  army,  he  despatched  a  satrap  to  the  hero,  offering 
to  exchange  Abla  and  the  other  Absian  women  for  Prince  Aswad 
and  his  companions.  The  royal  messenger  returned  with  the 
answer,  that  Abla  and  all  her  jewels  must  be  restored  before  he 
would  release  Prince  Aswad ;  and  Numan,  hearing  from  his 
satrap  a  fearful  account  of  Antar's  exploits  and  prodigious 
courage,  at  once  complied  with  the  hero's  demand.  As  soon  as 
Abla  and  her  father  were  restored  to  their  tribe,  Antar  pro- 
ceeded to  release  his  prisoners,  among  whom  was  Maadi  Kereb, 
a  cousin  of  Jaida. 

'*  Having  now  entered  the  mountains,  Antar  ordoed 
Shiboob  to  set  at  liberty  Prince  Aswad  and  his  people. 
And  Shiboob  released  them.  But  Antar  cut  o£f  Maadi  Kerch's 
hair  with  his  own  hand,  saying :  '  O  Maadi  Kereb,  I  have 
cut  off  your  hair  in  revenge  for  Jaida's  insults  towards  my 
cousin  Abla ' ;  and  he  ordered  the  slaves  and  attendants  to 
turn  out  the  prisoners  bare- footed,  and  naked,  and  bare- 
headed. And  as  they  were  executing  Antar 's  commands, — 
*  Art  thou  not  ashamed,  O  son  of  Shedad, '  cried  Aswad,  *  to 
drive  us  away  in  this  condition  ?  We  have  not  a  horse  to  ride 
on  !  We  have  nothing  to  eat  or  drink  ! ' — *By  the  faith  of  an 
Arab,*  said  Antar,  *  reproach  me  not  for  my  conduct  towards  any 
one  of  you  ;  for  you  are  all  going  to  assemble  in  a  body  against 
me,  and  you  will  return  a  second  time  to  fight  me,  and  the  horses 
I  should  give  you,  verily  I  shall  have  to  fight  you  for  them.  As 
to  eatables,  you  will  find  on  your  way  green  weeds  that  you  may 
graze  on,  and  drink  out  of  the  puddles ;  but  we  at  all  events  are 
a  tribe  entrenched  within  the  mountains,  and  in  the  day  of  battle 

S 


274  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


a  small  supply  will  feed  us.  Ay,  and  most  of  you  say  of  me  that 
Antar  is  a  black  slave  and  a  bastard  ; — these  are  the  expressions 
you  and  others  make  use  of  towards  me,  and  would  do  so  were  I 
to  release  you  a  thousand  times :  my  best  plan  would  be  to  IdD 
you  all  at  once — thank  God  you  are  alive. ' — *  Do  not  act  thus, 
O  Aboolfawaris, '  said  Aswad ;  '  for  indeed  I  cannot  walk  on  foot, 
no,  not  a  quarter  of  a  mile ;  so  do  give  me  something  to  carry 
me,  or  put  me  instantly  to  death,  and  deliver  me  from  this 
ignominy. ' — *  Hola,  Ebe  Reah  !  *  said  Antar  to  Shiboob,  *  bring 
here  a  she-camel ;  let  him  mount  it  and  quit  my  presence,  or  I 
shall  never  be  able  to  keep  my  sword  off  his  neck. '  So  Shiboob 
ran  off,  and,  with  his  usual  ingenuity  and  sagacity,  he  chose  out 
a  she-camel,  foundered  and  quite  worn  out — bom  lame  and 
blind— weasy  and  broken-winde<I — grunting,  loose-lipped,  and 
toothless — crop-eared  and  spanned.  When  it  was  presented  to 
the  Prifice  his  soul  was  most  indignant. — *  Come,  Prince,'  cried 
Shiboob,  '  mount,  whilst  I  hold  the  bridle,  for  I  am  terribly 
afraid  she  will  fly  away  ;  for  indeed  she  is  one  of  that  celebrated 
breed  of  Asafeer  camels  I ' — *  May  God  curse  the  bowels  that  bore 
thee  ! '  cried  the  Prince ;  *  away  with  it,  for  I  want  it  not ' ;  and 
he  rushed  out  from  the  mountains,  blaspheming  the  fire. " 

Nushirvan,  King  of  Persia,  hearing  of  Antar's  exploits  against 
his  vassal,  Numan,  of  Hirah,  sends  his  satrap,  Wirdishan,  with 
a  large  army,  to  humble  the  champion  of  Abs.  A  fearful  battle 
takes  place  between  the  Persians  and  the  Absians,  in  the  Valley 
of  Torrents,  in  which  Wirdishan  (like  his  renowned  predecessor, 
Khosrewan)  is  slain  by  the  irresistible  Antar,  and  the  Persians 
are  completely  routed. 

The  hero's  fair  enemy,  Jaida,  still  burning  to  avenge  the 
death  of  her  hust>and,  Khalid,  again  takes  the  field  at  the  head 
of  the  warriors  of  Zebeed  ;  and  having  brought  them  face  to  face 
with  the  Absians,  thus  she  addressed  them  : 

O  BY  my  tribe!  tears  have  festered  my  cheeks,  and  in 
the  greatness  of  my  agony  sleep  has  abandoned  me. 


J 


DEFEAT  OF  THE  TRIBE  OF  ZEBEED.       275 

These  mourning  garments  have  debilitated  my 
energies,  and  sickness  has  weakened  my  bones  and 
my  skin  ; 

For  I  had  a  hero  whom  a  black  slave  by  his  oppres- 
sion and  violence  made  to  drink  of  death : 

The  full  moon  indeed  fell  to  the  earth  when  the 
arrow  was  aimed  at  him,  sped  from  the  hand  of 
the  slave. 

Now  he  is  gone,  I  am  left  to  my  afflictions  and 
griefs,  and  I  endure  my  distresses  in  solitude. 

The  sword  mourns  him,  now  he  is  gone,  and  in  the 
sheath  it  bewails  its  condition. 

O  thou  dead  ! — mourners  have  wept  him  in  the 
mountains  of  Fala  and  the  land  of  Nejd  ! 

He  was  like  a  branch  in  form — the  revolutions  of 
Fortune  cut  him  off — alas  !  how  cut  him  off! 

O  by  my  tribe !  who  will  assuage  my  sorrows,  and 
will  regard  his  engagements  with  me,  now  Khalid  is 
gone  ? 

When  she  had  finished,  "  the  tribe  of  Zebeed  sent  forth  one 
general  shout  ihat  made  the  mountains  tremble — they  remembered 
the  death  of  their  chief  Khalid — they  poured  down  upon  Antar, 
uncovering  their  heads,  and  lightening  their  garments,  to  the 
number  of  five  thousand,  and  about  two  thousand  of  the  tribes  of 
Lakhm  ami  Juzam  followed  them ;  they  all  attacked,  led  by  Maadi 
Kereb,  bellowing  like  a  lion."  But  Antar,  with  only  three 
hundred  horsemen,  resolutely  received  their  attack,  and  defeated 
the  whole  seven  thousand — ^Jaida  and  Maadi  Kereb  flying  for 
their  lives. 

King  Numan,  having  sent  another  army  against  Abs,  which 
was  driven  back  by  the  noble  Antar  and  his  lion-warriors,  now 


3/6  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

became  anxious  for  peace,  and  renewed  his  proposal  for  the  hand 
of  Zoheir's  daughter.  Antar,  grateful  to  Numan  for  havii^ 
released  his  father  Shedad,  who  had  fallen  into  his  power, 
strongly  advised  Zoheir  to  consent,  and  peace  was  proclaimed, 
and  Numan  duly  married  to  Zoheir*s  daughter. 

But  Prince  Aswad  misrepresents  his  brother  Numan's  conduct 
in  the  late  war  to  Nushirvan,  who  deposes  him,  confers  his  king- 
dom on  Aswad,  and  sends  his  son  Khodawend  with  fifty  thousand 
Persians  to  destroy  the  Absians.  At  the  same  time  the  chief 
Hijar  and  the  warriors  of  Kendeh  advance  to  lay  waste  thdr 
lands.  Antar  obtains  information  of  their  movements  from  the 
ubiquitous  Shiboob,  and,  putting  himself  at  the  head  of  three 
thousand  horsemen  of  Abs  (leaving  Prince  Cais  with  a  party  to 
protect  the  women  and  property  of  the  tribe  in  the  mountains), 
goes  forth  to  give  the  enemy  a  warm  reception.  The  noble  hero*s 
reflections  on  the  march  found  expression  in  these  verses  : — 

Our  country  is  laid  waste,  and  our  lands  despoiled: 
our  homes  are  ravaged,  and  our  plains  are  devastated ! 

Let  us  halt ;  let  us  mourn  for  them :  for  there  is  no 
friend  in  that  quarter,  and  the  country  is  ruined. 

Fate  has  fallen  upon  our  companions,  and  they  are 
dispersed  as  if  they  had  never  alighted  at  their  tents. 

In  sFK>rtive  merriment  they  tucked  up  the  garments 
of  joy,  and  their  spears  were  spread  along  their  tents. 

The  wand  of  happiness  was  waving  over  us,  as  if 
Fortune  had  been  favourable,  and  our  enemies  thought 
not  of  us. 

O  Abla!  my  heart  is  rent  with  anguish  on  thy 
account :  my  patience  is  fled  to  the  wastes  I 

O  Hijar ! — hey !  I  will  teach  thee  my  station :  thou 
shalt  not  dare  to  fight  me,  disgraced  as  thou  art  I 


A  ROUGH  RECEPTION.  277 

Hast  thou  forgotten  in  the  Vale  of  Torrents  the 
deeds  of  my  valour,  and  how  I  overthrew  the  armies^ 
undaunted  as  they  were  ? 

I  precipitated  them  with  the  thrust,  and  I  abandoned 
them  and  their  carcasses  to  be  trampled  on  by  the 
wild  beasts  1 

Shall  I  not  behold  thee  in  anguish  to-morrow? — 
ay ! — thou  shalt  not  escape  from  me  to  the  arms  of 
thy  beloved ! 

I  will  leave  the  brutes  of  the  desert  to  stamp  over 
thee,  and  the  eagles  and  the  ghouls  shall  mangle  thee  ! 

I  am  Antar,  the  most  valiant  of  knights — ay,  of 
them  all ;  and  every  warrior  can  prove  my  words. 

If  you  have  a  milch-camel,  milk  her ;  for  thou 
knowest  not  to  whom  her  young  may  belong. 

Antar  takes  Hijar  prisoner,  and  his  little  army  is  victorious. 
But  now  Khodawend  has  come  with  his  l^ons,  and  in  the 
battles  between  the  Persians  and  Absians,  Antar  performs 
many  marvellous  exploits.  Khodawend,  thinking  the  Absians 
would  willingly  surrender  on  almost  any  terms,  causes  his  viaer 
to  write  a  letter  to  King  Zoheir,  offering  peace  if  he  would  give 
op  to  him  that  vile  slave  Antar.  This  letter  he  sends  by  a 
satrap,  escorted  by  twenty  Persian  horsemen,  and  accompanied 
by  an  interpreter  called  Ocab,  the  son  of  Terjem.  On  reaching 
the  Absian  encampment,  it  chanced  that  only  Antar  and  another 
chief  were  mounted. 

"  They  were  in  conversation  when  the  satrap  came  up  to  them; 
he  did  not  salute  them,  but  asked  for  King  Zoheir.  *  He  in- 
quires for  King  Zoheir,'  said  the  interpreter,  '  for  he  has  a  letter 
from  Khodawend  for  him.'— *  We,  O  Arab,'  said  Antar,  'have 
r«ad  your  letter  before  its  arrival :  in  it  your  Prince  orders 
us  to  surrender  ourselves  without  fighting. — Pull  that  satrap  off 


278  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

the  back  of  his  horse,'  said  he  to  Shiboob ;  '  ay,  and  the  rest, 
too :  seize  all  their  property ;  and  if  any  one  dares  to  straggle 
with  you,  treat  him  thus,' — and  at  the  word  he  extended  his  arm, 
and  pierced  the  satrap  through  the  chest,  forcing  the  spear  oat 
quivering  through  his  back,  and  he  hurled  him  down  dead. 
When  his  comrades  saw  what  Antar  had  done,  they  cried  out  for 
quarter,  and  surrendered  themselves  to  Shiboob,  who  bound 
them  fast  by  the  shoulders.  As  to  the  interpreter,  he  shuddered. 
'  May  God  requite  you  well,'  said  he ;  'for  you  have  answered  us 
before  even  reading  the  letter  !  If  this  indeed  is  the  honorary 
robe  for  a  satrap,  let  it  not  be  so  for  an  interpreter ;  for  I  have 
children  and  a  family,  and  I  am  but  a  poor  fellow.  I  only 
followed  these  Persians  but  with  the  prospect  of  gaining  some 
miserable  trifle.  I  never  calculated'  on  being  hung ;  and  my 
children  when  I  am  gone  will  remain  orphans. '  So  he  wept  and 
groaned,  thus  expressing  himself : 

O  KNIGHT  of  the  horses  of  warriors  that  overthrow; 
their  lion,  resembling  the  roaring  ocean  I 

By  your  awful  appearance  you  have  disgraced 
heroes,  and  reduced  them  to  despair. 

As  soon  as  the  Persian  sees  you  he  is  dishonoured : 
if  they  approach  you,  and  extend  their  spears  against 
your  glory,  they  must  retreat,  or  there  is  no  security. 

Have  compassion,  then,  on  your  victim,  a  person  of 
little  worth,  whose  family  will  be  in  misery  when  he  is 
gone  ! 

Not  the  thrust  of  the  spear  or  battle  is  among  my 
qualifications  ; — I  profess  no  fighting — I  have  no 
cleaving  scimitar. 

My  name  is  Ocab :  but  indeed  I  am  no  fighting 
man ;  and  the  sword  in  the  palm  of  my  hand  only 
chases  pelicans. 


PEACE  RESTORED,  279 


*' Antar  laughed  at  Ocab*s  verses,  and  let  him  go.  '  Return 
to  your  family,  *  said  he,  *  and  go  no  more  to  the  Persian,  or 
you  will  be  in  danger;  for  when  they  see  you  safe  they  will 
accuse  you,  and  perhaps  put  you  to  death.* — *■  You  are  very  right, 
my  lord,  *  said  he ;  'by  the  faith  of  an  Arab,  had  I  known  these 
Persians  would  have  been  thus  worsted  I  would  not  have  quitted 
you ;  and  probably  I  might  have  managed  to  secure  some  of 
their  goods,  and  return  with  it  to  my  family.' — *  Sheikh,'  said 
Antar's  companion,  '  this  business  has  failed ;  but  come,  take  the 
spoils  of  this  satrap,  and  return  to  your  family,  and  pass  not  your 
evening  a  dead  man.' — 'Ay,  my  lord,'  said  Ocab,  'he  is  a  wise 
fellow  who  returns  safe  to  his  friends.' — So  he  ran  up  to  the 
satrap  and  despoiled  him.  Round  his  waist  was  a  girdle  and  a 
sword,  and  when  Ocab  saw  all  that  wealth  he  was  bewildered ; 
and  having  completely  rifled  him, — 'O  my  lord,'  said  he  to 
Antar,  '  I  will  never  separate  from  you  again.  I  wish  you  would 
present  me  to  your  king,  that  I  may  kiss  his  hand  and  offer  him 
my  services  :  then  indeed  I  will  for  ever  cleave  to  your  party,  and 
whenever  you  slay  a  satrap  I  will  plimder  him. '  Antar  laughed 
heartily." 

A  battle  of  seven  days'  duration  ensued,  which,  despite  of 
the  heroic  exertions  of  Antar,  ended  in  the  discomfiture  of  the 
Absians,  who,  however,  still  continued  to  contend  with  the  enemy 
among  the  sand-hills  and  the  defiles.  Antar  himself  was 
wounded  in  three  places,  but  his  spirit  remained  undaunted,  al- 
beit afflictions  were  multiplied  around  him.  At  this  crisis 
King  Numan  obtains  an  interview  with  Khodawend,  and  clears 
himself  of  the  false  charges  brought  against  him  by  his  brother  : 
Aswad  is  degraded ;  Numan  restored  to  power ;  and  peace  being 
proclaimed  between  the  belligerents,  the  Absians  return  in  joy  to 
their  homes.  Antar  and  a  select  number  of  his  comrades 
accompany  King  Numan  to  Hirah,  where  they  are  splendidly 
entertained  for  some  time ;  and  before  they  return  to  their  own 
country,  Chosroes  Nushir\'an,  having  heard,  from  his  son 
Khodawend,    how  the  Absians  had   been  saved   by  Antar's 


a8o  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR. 

indomitable  prowess,    sends   the  hero  a  robe  of  honour  and 
many  other  rich  presents,  in  token  of  his  renewed  friendship. 

Prince  Harith  in  Love. 

Prince  Harith,  one  of  Zoheir's  sons,  while  hunting,  one  day 
chanced  to  stray  into  a  valley,  at  some  distance  from  the  land 
of  Shurebah.  There  he  saw  a  party  of  women  of  the  tribe  of 
Zohran,  and  conspicuous  among  them  was  the  chief's  beautiful 
daughter,  Labna.  They  fell  in  love  with  each  other  at  first  sight 
Shiboob  contrived  to  carry  off  the  damsel  to  her  lover  ;  but  her 
father,  breathing  vengeance,  pursued  them,  with  his  warriors. 
Harith  was  taken  prisoner,  but  was  soon  afterwards  released  by 
Shiboob,  who,  however,  in  his  turn,  was  captured.  At  this 
juncture,  Antar,  returning  from  Hirah,  reached  the  place,  and 
rescued  his  brother ;  and  Labna  and  Harith  were  restored  to 
each  other.  The  hero  then  continued  his  journey  home  ;  and  as 
his  passion  for  Abla  burst  upon  him,  thus  he  recited  : 

Oh  !  is  it  the  fragrance  of  musk,  or  is  it  ttr  ? 

Is  it  a  voice,  or  the  breeze,  warbling  over  the  desert, 
that  sings  of  her  ? 

Is  it  a  flash  of  lightning  ?  or  is  it  her  teeth  in  the 
wastes,  resembling  the  full  moon  when  it  rises  ? 

Is  it  the  branch  of  the  tamarisk,  that  sweetly  waves 
in  the  wilds  ? 

Is  it  the  stem  of  the  spear,  or  her  form  ? 

Is  it  the  narcissus  of  the  gardens,  endued  with 
visual  powers,  or  her  cheek,  like  the  untouched 
apple  ? 

I  rave  through  love  of  her ;  but  let  my  railers  see 
the  torrents  of  ray  tears,  to  which  there  is  no  end  ! 


ZOHEIR'S  BROTHER,   ASYED.  a8i 


O  Abla  !  my  heart  for  love  of  thee  suffers  tortures  : 
this  frequent  separation  and  these  echoes  fill  me  with 
grief. 

0  Abla !  fear  not  thy  enemies ;  for  against  the 
destiny  of  God  there  is  no  opposition. 

King  Zoheir  and  his  Brother,  Asyed. 

While  Prince  Harith  was  absent  and  in  trouble  on  account  of 
his  love-aflfair,  King  Zoheir  went  to  meet  his  brother  Asyed, 
"a  learned  man  in  that  age  of  ignorance,  who  generally  passed 
his  time  at  the  Sacred  Shrine  and  the  Zemzem.  He  was  full  of 
virtue  and  liberality,  loving  justice  and  equity,  and  detesting 
violence  and  oppression. "  Asyed  visited  the  tribe  of  Abs  once 
every  year,  and  on  this  occasion  Zoheir,  accompanied  by  three 
hundred  horsemen,  met  him,  by  appointment,  at  a  place  called 
the  Valley  of  Tamarisks.  When  the  brothers  had  affectionately 
greeted  each  other,  Asyed  suddenly  exclaimed,  in  a  voice  choked 
with  emotion : 

O  TREES  of  the  tamarisk  !  where  do  ye  behold  them  ? 
Do  the  people  of  my  vows  dwell  in  your  neighbour- 
hood? 

1  look  all  around,  but  the  hand  of  ravage  has 
destroyed  them ;  yet  never  have  I  broken  my  former 
protestations — I  have  not  betrayed  them. 

My  vows  were  made  to  one  like  the  full  moon, 
resembling  the  branches  and  boughs  of  the  tamarisk ; — 

But  I  am  alone  and  solitary,  though  once  we  met, 
and  here,  now  they  are  gone,  are  only  the  owl  and  the 
raven ! 


282  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR. 

O  trees  of  the  tamarisk !  whither  are  they  gone  ? 
They  are  gone,  and  in  my  heart  passion  has  left  a 
burning  flame  ! 

If  ye  ever,  after  being  watered,  complain  of  drought, 
my  tears  to-day  shall  form  a  lake  around  you ! 

The  King  was  not  a  little  surprised  to  hear  his  grave  and 
learned  brother  thus  refer,  apparently,  to  some  secret  love-episode 
of  his  youth,  and  earnestly  desiring  to  know  the  particulars, 
Asyed  thereupon  related  the  following  tale  : — 

"Know,  then,  my  brother,  that  the  year  our  father,  King 
Jazeema,  made  his  pilgrimage,  I  accompanied  him  ;  and  when 
our  pilgrimage  was  expired,  as  we  were  on  our  way  home,  we 
happened  to  pass  by  this  place,  in  which  I  saw  a  vast  quantity 
of  wild  beasts  and  deer.  My  father  rode  on  and  went  home,  but 
I  remained  for  the  sake  of  the  chase.  Thus  occupied,  I  stayed 
till  the  meridian  heat  overpowered  me,  and  the  sultry  air  became 
so  excessive,  I  returned  also,  seeking  the  track  of  my  father.  I 
chanced  to  pass  by  this  tree,  and  when  I  reached  it,  I  saw  a  very 
old  sheikh  beneath  it,  and  with  him  an  immense  quantity  of 
camels,  and  also  his  daughter,  who  was  tending  them  at  the 
pasture — she  was  the  most  beautiful  and  most  elegant  of  forms  ; 
and  as  soon  as  I  came  up  to  him  I  saluted  him.  *  Wliat  do 
you  want,  young  man  ?'  said  he. — I  only  said,  *  Will  you  accept 
of  a  guest  when  he  comes?' — 'Welcome,  to  me,'  said  he,  *in 
winter  and  in  summer.  But,  young  man,  every  one,  according  to 
his  means.' 

"On  hearing  thU,  I  resolved  on  alighting  at  the  lake,  in  order 
to  drink,  and  water  my  horse.  But  the  sheikh  prevented  me,  and 
called  out  to  his  daughter,  who  brought  me  some  fresh  camel's 
milk  and  gave  me  to  drink,  and  also  watered  my  horse.  I  re- 
marked the  beauty  of  the  maiden,  and  I  perceived  her  moving  in 
the  plains  of  loveliness.  Her  father,  too,  observing  the  sym- 
metry of  my  horse,  and  my  rich  garments,  brought  me  some 
victuals.     '  Excuse  my  scanty  offering,'  said  he,  *  for  I  am  a  poor 


ASYED'S  SAD  STORY,  283 

man,  and  the  liberal  pardon,  when  they  see  the  apology  is 
sincere.' — 'O  Sheikh  T  said  I,  'this  is  the  greatest  charity  ;  but 
if  you  will  accede  to  my  wishes,  I  would  request  you  to  accept 
my  proposal,  and  gratify  my  desire  with  regard  to  your  daughter, 
and  you  shall  then  go  with  me  to  my  tribe.  I  am  anxious  you 
would  receive  me  as  her  husband,  and  I  will  take  you  to  my  land 
and  family ;  speak  to  me  and  bestow  her.  By  Him  who  has 
created  her  and  fashioned  her,'  I  added,  'take  all  I  have  about 
me  as  part  of  her  marriage  dower ';  and  I  took  off  my  sword- 
belt  and  my  horse-trappings,  which  were  all  of  gold. 

"The  sheikh  at  the  sight  of  this  was  much  surprised  and  de- 
lighted, and  came  towards  me  without  hesitation,  and,  giving  me 
his  hand  for  the  marriage,  drove  away  the  camels  and  cattle,  and 
went  to  his  own  dwelling,  and  I  accompanied  him  ;  and  on  our 
arrival  he  slaughtered  all  the  sheep  he  possessed,  and  some  she- 
camels,  and  rejoiced  in  me  as  no  one  ever  rejoiced  before,  and 
married  his  daughter  to  me  that  night.  I  tarried  with  them 
three  days,  and  afterwards  I  informed  them  who  I  was.  I 
stayed  some  time  longer,  and  quitted  them,  bearing  in  my  heart 
the  greatest  attachment  for  them,  and  intending  to  return  to  them 
with  abundant  wealth. 

"  Having  reached  home  and  joined  my  family,  I  despatched  a 
slave  to  conduct  my  wife  to  me,  and  sent  with  him  a  great  quan- 
tity of  camels  and  sheep  to  this  valley  and  desert.  I  remained 
anxiously  expecting  them,  till  my  slave  returned  in  despair,  and 
brought  back  all  my  property.  I  asked  him  what  was  the  mat- 
ter. 'I  have  seen  no  one  there,  my  lord,'  said  he.  I  stayed 
some  time  quiet,  and  despatched  emissaries  to  all  the  Arab 
tribes,  and  expended  amongst  them  much  gold  and  silver,  but  I 
never  could  obtain  any  intelligence  of  her.  And  even  now,  my 
brother,  I  bear  her  in  my  memory.  It  was  on  her  account  I  at- 
tached myself  to  Mecca  and  the  Sacred  Shrine,  till  I  this  day 
beheld  th^  remembrances  of  her,  and  now  all  my  sorrows  come 
upon  me  anew  ;  and  whilst  I  meditated  on  the  past,  I  was 
anxious  that  you  should  come  with  me  to  this  spot,  that  I  might 
renew  the  vows  made  so  many  years  ago." 


2S4  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

Asyed  having  thus  ended  the  recital  of  his  pathetic  story,  the 
King  caused  the  slaves  to  spread  carpets  beneath  the  tamarisk 
trees,  and,  the  hunters  presently  returning  with  abundance  of 
hares  and  deer,  a  sumptuous  feast  was  quickly  prepared.  Thegf 
passed  the  night  in  the  same  spot,  but  at  break  of  day  the  party 
were  surprised  and  taken  prisoners  by  a  troop  of  horsemen  of 
Cahtan,  led  by  a  young  chief  called  Nazih,  who  was  returning  in 
triumph  to  his  own  tribe,  with  his  distinguished  captives,  when 
he  was  met  by  Antar.  The  noble  champion  of  Abs  impetuously 
assailed  Nazih,  and  unhorsed  him.  Shiboob  bound  him  securely, 
and  then  hastened  to  release  the  King  and  his  brother.  Antar 
proposed  to  put  Nazih  and  his  companions  to  death ;  and  proceed- 
ing to  strip  off  the  young  chief's  clothes,  he  discovered  on  his 
wrist  a  bracelet  of  cornelian,  on  which  were  engraved  images  of 
Lat  and  Uzza.  Asyed  recognises  the  trinket  as  being  identical 
with  one  which  he  had  given  to  his  bride  in  the  Valley  of 
Tamarisks :  he  questions  the  young  chief  regarding  his  parentage, 
and  discovers  in  Nazih  his  own  son.  Ultimately  Asyed  has  the 
felicity  of  being  re-united  to  his  long-lost  bride. 

Death  of  Prince  Shas  and  King  Zoheir. 

About  this  time  Prince  Shas,  while  journeying  through  the 
land  of  Aamir,  was  foully  murdered  by  a  huntsman,  called 
Thalaba.  The  Prince's  attendant  escaped  to  carry  the  tidings  to 
King  Zoheir,  who  immediately  placed  himself  at  the  head  of  his 
warriors,  and  set  out  to  avenge  hb  son's  death.  KhaKd,  the  chief 
of  the  tribe,  being  absent  in  Irak,  the  Aamirites  feared  to  oppose 
the  Absians,  and  offered  to  pay  King  Zoheir  ten  times  the  usual 
price  of  blood.  The  King  refused  to  compound  with  them  fotf 
the  murder  of  his  son,  but  after  assailing  the  tribe,  he  ¥ras  duped 
into  granting  a  truce,  of  which  the  Aamirites  availed  themselves  to 
occupy  a  strong  position  in  the  mountains,  where  they  contiooed 
in  safety  daring  the  few  days  that  remained  before  the  sacred 
month  of  Rejel\  when  war  ceased  among  the  Arabs.  Hostilities 
are  renewed  as  soon  as  the  sacred  month  is  past ;  and 


OLD  MALIK'S  CONTINUED  DUPLICITY.     285 


having  in  the  interim  returned  from  Irak,  encounters  King 
Zoheir,  who  is  slain  by  a  foul  stroke  from  Jandah,  one  of  Khalid*s 
followers;  and  the  Absians,  being  discomfited,  return  to  their 
own  land. 


King  Cais  Avenges  his  Father's  Death. 

Cais,  the  eldest  surviving  son  of  King  Zoheir,  having  acceded 
to  the  supreme  power,  goes  forth  with  his  warriors  to  avenge  the 
death  of  his  father.  But,  acting  on  the  advice  of  Antar's 
enemies,  he  leaves  the  hero  behind.  The  Absians  attack  the 
tribe  of  Aamir,  and  are  defeated.  King  Cais  then  sends  a  letter 
to  Antar,  begging  him  to  come  to  their  assistance.  Meantime  a 
fierce  combat  takes  place  between  the  young  chief  Nazih,  on  the 
part  of  the  Absians,  and  Harith  the  son  of  Zalim,  a  renegade 
knight,  on  the  part  of  the  Aamirites.  Just  as  Nazih  is  alx>ut  to 
succumb  to  his  antagonist,  a  strange  knight  makes  his  appearance, 
mounted  on  a  meagre,  foundered  horse,  and  poorly  armed.  This 
Bedouin  wanderer  assails  Harith  and  takes  him  prisoner ;  then  he 
overcomes  Jandah — who  gave  Zoheir  his  death-blow ;  and  King 
Cais  is  the  first  to  recognise  in  the  person  of  the  uncouth 
champion  Antar  himself.  The  King  strikes  off  the  head  of 
Jandah  with  the  assassin's  own  sword.  After  a  period  of  repose, 
the  Absians  again  made  war  upon  the  Aamirites,  who  were 
ultnnately  vanquished. 


Abla's  Father  and  Brother  again  rescued  by  Antar. 

Notwithstanding  the  great  respect  entertained  for  Antar  by 
King  Cais  and  the  noble  warriors  of  Abs,  his  uncle  Malik  was 
yet  fiir  from  being  reconciled  to  his  proposed  union  with  Abla. 
On  one  occasion  the  ung^teful  wretch  planned  a  murderous 
attack  upon  Antar  by  a  party  of  the  tribe  of  Fazarah,  while  the 
hero  was  carousing  with  himself  in  his  own  tent     But  Antar, 


286  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


having  been  warned  of  the  plot  by  Abla's  maid,  defeated  his 
uncle's  inhospitable  designs.  Enraged  at  his  failure,  and  perhaps 
also  a  little  ashamed,  Malik  resolves  again  to  emigrate  ;  but  this 
time  Abla  firmly  refuses  to  accompany  her  father  and  brother, 
and  these  two  worthies  have  fio  help  but  to  leave  Abla  behind, 
in  the  care  of  Shedad,  the  father  of  Antar. 

A  few  days  after  Malik  and  his  son  had  quitted  the  tribe,  Antar 
determined  to  go  in  quest  of  them,  and  induce  them  to  return. 
Accompanied  by  Shiboob  and  two  trusty  comrades,  he  sets 
out  accordingly ;  and  learning  that  Malik  and  Amru  are  prisoners 
of  Ramih,  chief  of  the  tribe  of  Jibhan,  they  proceed  thither  with 
all  haste.  When  they  reached  the  tents  of  Ramih,  Shiboob  and 
Antar  disguised  themselves,  and,  each  carrj'ing  a  bundle  of  wood 
on  his  head,  they  approached  the  dwelling  of  the  chief. 

'*It  was  almost  dark  when  they  entered  the  tents,  through 
which  they  continued  to  pass,  attentively  observing  everything, 
till  they  came  to  the  tents  of  Ramih,  where  they  saw  Malik  and 
his  son,  in  extreme  misery,  tied  up  with  the  dogs.  *  Behold 
your  uncle,'  said  Shiboob;  Met  your  grief  be  now  assuaged.' 
Antar  threw  his  bundle  of  wood  off  his  head,  and  Shiboob  did 
the  same;  but  they  did  not  stop  till  Ramih,  who  was  the  chief  of 
the  Jibhanians,  came  out,  attended  by  a  troop  of  slaves,  who 
laid  out  a  sofa  for  him  to  sit  on.  He  then  began  to  talk  to 
his  she}iherds,  who  were  parading  before  him  his  horses  and  his 
cattle;  and  he  inquired  of  them  about  the  pastures  and  the 
grain. 

"  *  O  my  lord,'  said  one  of  the  slaves,  *  I  beheld  a  most  extra- 
ordinary sight  this  day :  for  whilst  I  was  in  the  Valley  of 
Meadows,  tending  the  flocks,  I  came  uj>on  the  high  road,  where, 
behold  !  was  a  knight  hunting  the  fawns.  He  was  mounted  on 
a  black  steed,  and  in  front  of  the  knight  was  a  man  on  foot, 
girded  with  an  Arabian  bow,  and  round  his  waist  was  a  quiver 
full  of  arrows,  and  both  were  in  pursuit  of  a  fawn,  endeavouring 
to  catch  it.  I  stopped  to  look  at  them,  when,  lo  !  the  man  on  foot 
outstripped  the  knight.    He  seized  the  fawn  by  the  left  horn,  and 


THE  COLT  DA  HIS.  287 


the  knight,  catching  it  by  its  right  horn  and  gazing  in  its  face, 
thus  in  poetry  exclaimed  : 

Depart,  and,  ever  in  the  protection  of  God,  may  no 
evil  e'er  overtake  thee !  for  thou  resemblest  my  love 
in  her  eyes,  and  her  beauty ;  so  depart  in  security. 

Although  thy  form  resembles  the  damsel,  no 
imagination  can  comprehend  the  virtues  of  her  mind. 

"  *■  As  soon  as  the  knight  had  finished  his  verses,  my  lord,  he 
let  the  fawn  go  out  of  his  hand,  and  it  went  off  skipping  over 
the  barren  waste,  when  soon  two  more  knights  joined  them.' — 
'And  what  is  there  so  wonderful  in  nil  this?  '  said  Ramih.  '  I 
suppose  they  are  of  the  tribe  of  Cahtan,  and  that  the  evening  has 
surprised  them,  and  consequently  they  must  repose  in  my  land, 
and  will  quit  it  in  the  morning.'" 

Malik,  however,  who  had  overheard  this  conversation,  was 
convinced  that  the  man  on  foot,  spoken  of  by  the  slave,  must  be 
Shiboob,  while  the  humane  knight  could  only  be  Antar,  on  the 
way  to  rescue  them  ;  and  he  was  right.  Immediately  there  was 
great  confusion  in  the  tents  ; — the  lion-hero  struck  off  the  chiefs 
head  with  his  sword  Dhami,  and  having  released  Malik  and  his 
son,  they  all  returned  to  the  land  of  Abs. 

A  Horse  Race,  and  its  conskquences. 

King  Cais  having  despatched  some  of  his  slaves  to  obtain 
tidings  of  Antar,  one  of  them  returned  with  a  glowing  account  ot 
a  wonderful  colt,  called  Dahis,  which  he  had  seen  in  the  course 
of  his  journey.  In  beauty  and  in  speed  this  lolt  had  no  equal  in 
all  Arabia.  The  King  bargained  for  Dahis  with  the  owner,  and 
was  delighted  when  he  came  to  terms  for  his  purchase.  Soon 
after  this  Carwash,  a  cousin  of  King  Cais,  was  present  at  a  grand 
feast  given  by  Hadifah;  and  the  conversation  turning  upon  horses, 
Carwash  boasted  of  the  racing  qualities  of  Dahis.      Hadifah 


288  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

offers  to  back  his  mare  Gbabra  for  twenty  camels,  to  run  against 
Dahis,  and  a  match  is  made  accordingly.  Bat  the  King  takes 
the  matter  in  his  own  hands,  and  visits  Hadifah,  to  arrange  the 
conditions  of  the  race. 

« *  As  to  the  first  bet,  Hadifah/  said  Cais,  '  I  dissolve  it,  and 
I  will  lay  you  another,  and  let  the  wager  be  thirty.*  *  Forty,'  said 
Hadifah.  *  Fifty/  said  Cais.  '  Sixty/  said  Hadifah  ;  and  they 
continued  rising  till  they  made  the  bet  a  hundred  she-camels,  and 
consigned  the  contract  into  the  hands  of  a  man  called  Sabik,  son 
of  Wahab,  whilst  a  crowd  of  old  and  young  collected  about 
diem. — '  What  distance  shall  we  run  ? '  said  Hadifah  to  Cais. — 
'Forty  arrow-shots,'  said  Cais ;  *and  we  have  an  archer  called 
Ayas,  son  of  Mansoor ' — for  there  was  no  Arab  at  that  day  coukl 
shoot  like  him,  and  the  Arabs  had  made  him  quite  a  proverb. 
King  Cais  was  anxious  indeed  for  a  longer  race  on  account  of  the 
strength  of  his  horse's  muscles ;  for  the  greater  distance  he  went, 
the  more  his  spirit  and  animation  increased  in  his  movements. 
*■  Determine,  then,'  said  Cais  to  Hadifah,  *  when  the  match  shall 
take  place.' — 'Forty  days,  I  think,'  said  Hadifah,  'will  be 
required  to  train  the  horses.' — 'Very  well,'  said  Cais  ;  and  the 
a£&ir  was  mutually  settled,  that  the  horses  should  be  trained 
forty  days,  and  the  race-ground  should  be  near  the  lake  of  Zat- 
ul-irsad ;  and  the  horse  that  should  arrive  first  should  be  the 
winner.    Cais  having  given  his  consent,  he  returned  to  the  tents." 

The  race  between  Dahis  and  Ghabra  came  off  at  the  place 
appointed,  and  Dahis  would  have  won,  but  for  foul  play  on  the 
part  of  Hadifah,  who  caused  the  colt  to  be  injured  before  reach- 
ing the  goal ;  the  consequence  of  which  was  the  famous  Forty 
Years'  War  between  the  tribes  of  Abs  and  Dhobyan,  known 
as  the  War  of  Dahis. 

Feincb  Malik's  Marriage  and  Death. 

Prince  Malik,  while  hunting,  tike  his  brother  Harith,  fell  in 
love  with  a  beauteous  damsel  of  the  tribe  of  Ghorab,  and  straight- 
way asked  her  in  marriage  of  her  father,  an  old  sheikh,  who 


PRINCE  MALIK'' S  MARRIAGE,  2S9 

consented,  after  some  little  demur  on  the  ground  of  his  own 
poverty,  and  they  shook  hands  for  the  nuptials. 

''On  the  next  day  Prince  Malik  sent  to  the  sheikh  he  and 
she-camels,  and  variegated  robes,  and  cattle,  and  precious  jewels, 
and  howdahs,  brilliant  with  magnificent  velvet,  and  servants  and 
slaves,  and  with  them  horses  and  sheep,  ordering  them  to  be 
expeditious,  on  account  of  the  passion  that  was  in  his  heart ;  and 
he  appointed  a  certain  hour  on  the  seventh  day.  When  all  these 
presents  reached  the  tribe  of  Ghorab,  the  old  and  the  young 
rejoiced;  they  passed  those  days  in  the  greatest  delight,  and 
slaughtered  the  sheep  and  the  camels,  and  filled  the  goblets  with 
wine ;  and  they  were  perfectly  happy,  to  the  exclusion  of  every 
sorrow. 

*'  Soon  after.  Prince  Malik  clad  himself  in  the  robes  of  noble- 
bom  kings,  and  his  beauty  was  more  dazzling  than  the  new 
moon.  On  this  expedition  Antar  accompanied  him,  fearful  lest 
some  enemy  should  waylay  him ;  and  he  took  ten  horsemen  and 
five  of  his  brothers.  They  wandered  through  the  Arab  dwellings 
till  they  reached  the  tribe  of  Ghorab,  and  Prince  Malik  dis- 
mounted at  the  marriage  canopy,  his  brothers  also  alighting 
round  the  tent.  The  feast  immediately  commenced ;  the  damsels 
waved  the  cymbals,  and  the  horsemen  flourished  their  swords ; 
exclamations  of  joy  arose,  and  the  cups  went  round  ;  and  thus 
they  continued  till  the  laughing  day  was  spent,  when  the  nymph 
was  married  to  Malik."  « 

But  who  could  guess  that  "  upon  night  so  sweet  an  awful  mom 
would  rise?*' — that  the  nuptial  night  of  the  good  Prince  Malik 
should  be  his  last ! — "  By  moming  their  joys  were  converted  into 
sorrows,  and  shots  were  precipitated  at  them  from  arrows  for 
which  there  is  no  surgeon ; — for  Fortune  never  gives,  but  it 
pillages ;  is  never  stationary,  but  it  revolves ;  is  never  merry,  but 
it  sorrows ;  never  bestows,  but  it  takes  back ;  never  joys,  but  it 
grieves ;  never  sweetens,  but  it  embitters." 

Early  next  moming,  Hadifah,  with  a  party  of  his  kinsmen, 
attacked  the  marriage-guests.  Antar  was  the  first  to  start 
up  on  the  alarm  being  given  by  the  slaves;  springing  upon 

T 


290  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 

his  horse  Abjer,  he  hastened  to  meet  the  enemy,  and  soon  the 
whole  tribe  of  Ghorab  were  in  motion.  Hadifah  advanced 
towards  the  nuptial  tent.  Prince  Malik,  half  asleep,  and  his 
garments  scented  with  musk  and  saffron,  rushed  out,  and  mount- 
ing his  horse,  cried,  *'  I  am  Malik,  the  son  of  Zoheir !  **  But  his 
horse  stumbled  and  threw  him.  As  he  was  attempting  to  rise, 
Hadifah  dealt  him  a  deadly  blow  on  the  head  with  his  sword  ; 
then,  fearing  the  vengeance  of  Antar,  he  rejoined  his  companions, 
and  they  all  hastened  away.  When  Antar  returned  from  the 
conflict  he  found  his  friend  in  the  agonies  of  death,  lying  bathed 
in  blood  beside  his  horse.  The  dying  Prince  opened  his  eyes  and 
attempted  to  speak  to  Antar,  but  could  not ;  and  with  a  sigh  his 
gentle  spirit  departed.  ''  Antar  wrapped  him  up  in  his  clothes, 
and  tying  him  on  the  back  of  his  horse,  took  him  away,  and 
sought  the  land  of  Abs."  As  he  journeyed  sadly  homeward 
his  grief  found  expression  in  these  verses  : 

Alas  !  O  raven,  hastening  in  thy  flight,  send  me  thy 
wings,  for  I  have  lost  my  support ! 

Is  it  true  that  I  have  seen  the  day  of  Malik's  death 
and  murder,  or  has  it  befallen  me  in  a  dream  ? 

The  light  of  day  is  darkened  in  grief  for  the  youth, 
the  hero  of  Abs  and  of  Ghiftan  1 

O  woe  is  me  !  how  fell  he  from  his  horse,  and  my 
sword  and  my  spear  were  not  near  him  ? 

The  fated  arrow  of  the  all-bounteous  Archer  cast 
him  down ! — O  that,  when  it  cast  him  down,  it  had 
cast  me  down  too ! 

O  that  my  soul  had  bade  farewell,  and  that  his 
hands  had  not  beckoned  to  me  a  double  adieu ! 

Alas  !  his  kindnesses,  were  I  to  comment  on  them, 
ray  tongue  would  fail  ere  I  could  repeat  them  ! 


A  MAR  AH  DISGRACED,  agi 

I  sweax  I  will  not  sleep  from  taking  vengeance :  I 
will  not  repose,  but  on  the  back  of  my  stallion. 

Never  shall  my  sword  cease  to  cleave  those  Faza- 
reans,  till  the  desert  be  converted  into  a  sea  of 
crimson  blood  ! 

The  shade  of  Prince  Malik  appeared  to  Antar  one  night  in  a 
dream  ; — beckoning  with  his  fingers,  he  said  :  "O  Aboolfawaris  ! 
dost  thou  sleep,  and  I  unrevenged?  Hast  thou  forgotten  our 
former  friendship  ?  Before  thee  many  have  been  faithful  to  their 
friends  :  be  thou  faithful  also  to  him  who  was  slain  but  yester- 
day ; "  and  then  the  apparition  vanished.  In  the  darkness  of 
the  night,  then  and  there,  the  hero  mounted  Abjer,  and  taking 
his  brother  Shiboob  in  front  of  him,  he  sought  the  land  of 
Fazarah.  There  he  slew  Awef,  the  brother  of  Hadifah,  as  a  first 
sacrifice  to  the  manes  of  his  murdered  friend. 

Amarah  lampooned  by  the  Girls. 

Antar  returned  to  his  tribe,  and  lived  secluded  in  his  tent, 
sorrowing  for  the  loss  of  his  first  and  ever  steadfast  friend.  One 
day  Khemisa,  Abla's  handmaiden,  came  to  him  with  a  message 
from  his  darling,  who  desired  him  to  watch  over  the  safety  of 
herself  and  her  female  companions  while  they  passed  some  time 
at  the  lake  during  the  evening.  The  hero  was  delighted  with  the 
duty,  and  readily  promised  Abla  his  protection  against  the  wan- 
derers of  the  night. 

The  girls  set  out  for  the  lake  at  the  hour  appointed,  and 
Amarah,  disguised  in  women's  clothes,  followed  them.  When 
they  reached  the  lake  he  pounced  upon  Abla  like  a  voracious 
vulture.  But  help  was  at  hand.  Antar,  concealed  behind  the 
sand-hills,  heard  Abla's  screams.  He  rushed  forth  like  a  furious 
lion,  grasped  Amarah,  and  almost  beat  the  life  out  of  him  ;  then 
he  let  him  go,  followed  by  the  taunts  and  jeers  of  the  girls. 


292  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR. 

**  This  circumstance  with  Abla  soon  spread  abroad,  and  all  the 
women,  and  men,  and  girls,  and  boys,  and  slaves,  and  slave-giils 
joined  in  the  laugh  against  Amarah,  singing  these  verses,  whilst 
Amarah  heard  them  : — the  women  and  shepherdesses  sang  them 
at  their  spindles  ;  for  there  was  a  girl  among  the  Absians  who 
could  compose  verses ;  she  was  very  eloquent,  so  she  repeated 
these  verses  on  Amarah  the  cuckold,  and  they  were  recollected 
by  all  the  women  and  girls  : " 

Amarah,  leave  alone  the  beautiful,  full-hipped  damsels; 
— ^let  alone  all  disputes  about  the  lovely  girls  ! 

For  thou  canst  not  plunge  into  the  sea  of  deaths, 
and  thou  art  no  horseman  in  the  day  of  battle. 

Aspire  no  more  to  Abla :  if  thou  dost  but  look  at 
her,  thou  wilt  see  horrors  from  the  lion  of  the  forests  1 

As  to  the  thin  quivering  spear,  touch  not  its  strength, 
nor  the  cleaving  scimitar. 

Abla  is  a  fawn  chased  by  a  lion,  with  eyes  that 
afHict  with  disorder  the  stoutest  in  health. 

Let  alone  all  contest  about  her,  or  the  unflinching 
Antar  will  make  thee  drink  of  death. 

Thou  didst  not  cease  thy  obstinacy,  till  thy  foul 
condition  gave  evidence  against  thee  ! 

All  the  girls  laughed  at  thee :  thou  wast  the  carrion 
of  the  plains  and  deserts ;  thou  wast  the  common 
talk  of  the  merry,  and  the  laughing-stock  for  every 
passenger ! 

Thou  camest  to  us  in  the  robes  of  dyed  silk,  thou 
black  greasy  kettle ! 

As  thou  didst  meet  us,  a  lion  met  thee,  whom  all 
the  lion-heroes  acknowledge  in  the  carnage : 


MARRIAGE  OF  ANTAR  AND  ABLA.         293 

Then  fear  trembled  in  thy  heart — intoxication 
quitted  thee,  and  thou  wast  restored  to  thy  senses. 

Nothing  but  contempt  remained  for  thee,  when 
thou  didst  retire  like  a  dunghilL 

Abla  beheld  thee  laid  low,  stretched  out;  and  all 
the  beautiful  high-hipped  damsels  with  her. 

We  held  our  noses  at  thee,  as  we  laughed  at  thee 
and  quizzed  thee. 

The  Antar  of  Knights,  the  lion  of  the  cave,  came — 
he,  who  in  generosity  is  a  sea  of  liberality : 

And  thou  art  the  vilest  of  all  those  that  ever  crossed 
a  horse — the  noblest  of  those  who  are  tenacious  of 
their  lives ! 

We  are  like  the  sweetest  flowerets,  scented  like  the 
violets  and  the  camomile;  and  Abla  amongst  us  is  like 
the  branch  of  the  tamarisk :  her  beauty  is  the  full  moon, 
and  the  sun  of  the  desert. 

Thou  wouldst  possess  her  by  violence  and  outrage — 
thou ! — the  vilest  of  all  the  dogs  that  bark  i 

Die  in  grief,  otherwise  live  in  contempt ;  for  never, 
never  will  there  be  an  end  of  our  lampoons  upon 
thee ! 

Marriage  of  Antar  and  Abla. 

Many  more  wonderfiil  exploits  were  performed  by  Antar  in 
opposing  the  enemies  of  Abs — many  illustrious  warriors  fell 
beneath  the  stroke  of  his  irresistible  sword  Dhami,  before  he 
attained  the  chief  desire  of  his  heart.  At  length  King  Cais, 
^grateful  for  his  services,  resolved  that  Antar  should  be  married  to 
his  darling  Abla  without  further  delay,  and  his  uncle  Malik 
freely  gave  his  consent.  And  never  was  there  such  another 
glorious  wedding!    From  the  most  distant  lands  came  famous 


a94  ROMANCE   OF  ANTAR. 


knights  to  honour  the  nuptials  of  the  renowned  son  of  Shedad  and 
the  beauteous  daughter  of  Malik,  and  rich  and  rare  were  the 
presents  they  brought  with  them.  Each  of  these  illustrious  chiefs 
addressed  verses  to  Antar,  in  praise  of  his  prowess,  and  con- 
gratulating him  on  his  marriage.  "  It  was  now  the  season  of 
spring,  and  the  land  was  enamelled  with  the  lustre  of  new-bom 
flowers."  For  several  days  the  horsemen  jousted  with  each 
other,  with  blunted  spears.     And  then  came  the  wedding  night. 

'*  Now  there  was  a  curious  custom  current  among  the  Arabs  at 
that  period.  The  night  on  which  a  bridegroom  should  wed  his 
wife,  they  brought  a  quantity  of  camel  pack-saddles,  and  heaped 
them  one  upon  the  other,  decorating  them  with  magnificent 
garments.  Here  they  conducted  the  bride,  and  having  seated 
her  on  high,  they  said  to  the  bridegroom :  "  Come  on — ^now  for 
thy  bride  !  *  And  the  bridegroom  rushed  forward  to  carry  her 
off,  whilst  the  youths  of  the  tribe,  drawn  up  in  line,  right  and 
left,  with  staves  and  stones  in  their  hands,  as  soon  as  the  bride- 
groom  dashed  forward,  began  beating  and  pelting  him,  and  doing 
their  utmost  to  prevent  his  reaching  his  bride.  If  a  rib  or  so  were 
broken  in  the  affair,  it  was  well  for  him  ;  were  he  killed,  it  was 
his  destiny.  But  should  he  reach  his  bride  in  safety,  the  people 
quitted  him,  and  no  one  attempted  to  approach  him." 

This  singular  custom  was,  however,  waived  in  the  case  of 
Antar,  by  order  of  the  King,  who  feared  lest  some  enemy  of  the 
hero  might  do  him  a  mortal  injury  in  the  m^Ue, 

"And  now,  when  the  Arabs  assembled  for  Antar 's  marriage 
had  eaten  their  dinner,  the  cups  of  wine  were  brought  round  to 
them.  The  men  and  the  women  were  promiscuously  moving 
together;  the  girls  came  forth,  and  the  slave-women  were 
amusing  themselves,  enjoying  the  happy  moments.  '  Hola  !  * 
cried  the  matrons  and  the  virgins,  *  we  will  not  remain  covered 
on  Antar's  marriage.*  They  threw  aside  their  veils,  and  the  full 
moons  appeared  in  all  their  lustre ;  and  they  flaunted  the 
branches  of  their  forms  in  the  excess  of  their  delight ;  and  it  was 
a  famous  day  for  them.  *By  the  faith  of  an  Arab,*  said  the 
matrons  and  virgins,  '  we  will  not  remain  thus  concealed  behind 


MARRIAGE  OF  ANTAR  AND  ABLA.         295 

these  curtains — the  doors  shall  not  be  shut  upon  us  ;  we  will  sec 
Abla  in  her  magnificence,  and  we  will  walk  in  her  train,  and 
make  our  offerings  to  her  and  Antar,  and  we  will  not  keep  a 
dirhem  or  a  dinar  to  ourselves;  for  a  happier  night  than  this 
can  never  be,  and  no  one  but  a  madman  would  miss  it. 

"When  the  women  of  Carad  heard  this,  they  were  alarmed 
for  the  scandal  and  censure  that  would  thus  be  occasioned  :  so 
they  resolved  to  finish  Abla's  ceremony.  They  clothed  her  in 
most  magnificent  robes  and  superb  necklaces ;  they  placed  the 
coronet  of  Chosroe  on  her  head,  and  tiaras  round  her  forehead  : 
Abla  was  remarkable  for  her  beauty  and  loveliness:  the  tire- 
women surrounded  her,  and  they  requested  Antar  to  let  her  come 
forth  in  state.  He  gave  them  permission,  whilst  his  brothers  and 
slaves  stood  round  the  pavilion  with  their  swords,  and  javelins, 
and  weapons.  He  ordered  them  to  place  a  lofty  throne  for  Abla 
in  front  of  the  pavilion.  They  executed  his  commands  :  they 
lighted  brilliant  and  scented  candles  before  her,  and  spread  afar 
the  odour  of  aloes  and  camphor,  and  scattered  the  perfumes  of 
ambergris  and  musk  ;  the  lights  were  fixed  in  candlesticks 
of  gold  and  silver — the  torches  blazed — and  whilst  the  women 
shouted  and  raised  their  voices  to  whistles  and  screams,  Abla 
came  forth  in  state.  In  her  hand  she  bore  a  drawn  sword, 
whose  lustre  dazzled  the  eyesight.  All  present  gave  a  shout ; 
whilst  the  malicious  and  ill-natured  cried  :  '  What  a  pity  that 
one  so  beautiful  and  fair  should  be  wedded  to  one  so  black  ! '  *' 

Thus,  afler  all  his  trials  and  perils,  the  renowned  son  of 
Shedad  was  duly  married  to  his  darling  Abla,  and  thus  he 
expressed  his  satisfaction  at  the  consummation  of  his  wishes : 

My  heart  is  at  rest :  it  is  recovered  from  its  intoxica- 
tion. Sleep  has  calraed  my  eyelids,  and  relieved 
them. 

Fortime  has  aided  me,  and  my  prosperity  cleaves 
the  veil  of  night,  and  the  seven  orders  of  heaven. 


THE   DEATH   OF  ANTAR. 

In  the  course  of  his  exploits  as  chief  of  his  tribe,  Antar  had 
conquered  a  horseman,  called  Jezar,  who  was  a  famous 
archer;  and,  to  punish  his  agressions  upon  his  people,  he 
had  blinded  him  by  causing  a  red-hot  sabre  to  be  passed 
before  his  eyes ;  then  he  granted  him  life,  liberty,  and  even 
the  supreme  rank  in  his  own  tribe. 


I. 

FROM  that  time  Jezar,  son  of  Jaber,  meditated  in  silence 
on  vengeance.  Although  his  eyes  were  deprived  of 
sight,  he  had  in  no  way  lost  his  skill  in  archery.  His 
ear,  practised  in  following  the  movements  of  wild  animals  by 
the  sound  of  their  steps,  was  sufficient  to  guide  his  hand  :  never 
did  the  arrow  miss  the  mark.  His  hatred,  always  alert,  listened 
eagerly  for  the  news  which  fame  spread  alx>ut  his  enemy.  He 
learned  that  Antar,  after  a  distant  and  fortunate  expedition 
against  the  frontiers  of  Persia,  was  returned  to  Yemen,  laden 
with  as  much  glory  and  lKX)ty  as  he  had  formerly  brought  from 
the  court  of  Chosroe,  and  that  he  is  about  to  pass  into  the  desert 
adjoining  his  encampment.  At  this  story  Jezar  weeps  for  envy 
and  rage.     He  calls  Nejim,  his  faithful  slave  : 

**Ten  years  are  passed,"  says  he  to  him,  "since  a  burning 
iron  destroyed,  by  Antar's  order,  the  light  of  my  eyes,  and  I  am 
not  yet  revenged !    But  at  last  the  moment  has  come  when  to 


DEATH  OF  THE  HERO.  297 


quench  in  his  blood  the  fire  which  burns  in  my  heart.  Antar  is 
encamped,  they  say,  on  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates.  Thither 
I  wish  to  go  to  seek  him.  I  shall  live  hidden  in  the  reeds  of 
the  river  till  Heaven  delivers  his  life  into  my  hands." 

Jezar  orders  his  slave  to  bring  him  his  she-camel  which  rivals 
the  ostrich  in  the  race:  he  arms  himself  with  his  quiver  of 
poisoned  arrows.  Nejim  makes  the  camel  kneel,  helps  his 
master  to  mount  upon  her  back,  and  takes  the  end  of  the 
halter  of  the  animal,  to  direct  her  steps  toward  the  distant  bed 
of  the  Euphrates.  The  blind  warrior  fills  the  desert  with  his 
wailings  and  his  threats. 

After  a  long  day's  march  through  a  waterless  space,  Jexar  and 
his  slave  reach  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates,  whose  course  is 
marked  by  the  verdure  of  the  trees  and  the  herbs  along  its  bed. 

''What  seest  thou  on  the  other  bank?"  asks  Jezar  of  his 
slave. 

Nejim  casts  a  glance  to  the  other  bank.  He  sees  tents  richly 
adorned ;  numerous  flocks ;  camels  wandering  in  groups  on  the 
plain ;  spears  planted  in  the  ground  at  the  doors  of  the  tents ; 
harnessed  horses,  fastened  by  the  feet,  before  the  dwellings  of 
their  masters.  A  tent  more  splendid  than  the  rest  is  erected  at 
a  little  distance  from  the  river.  Before  the  door  arises,  like  a 
mast,  a  long  spear  of  steel,  beside  which  is  a  horse  blacker  than 
ebony.  Nejim  recognises  the  noble  courser  of  Antar,  the  famous 
Abjer,  and  his  terrible  spear.  He  halts  his  master's  camel  behind 
the  shrubs  and  reeds,  which  conceal  them  from  all  eyes;  and 
they  await  the  hour  of  darkness. 


II. 


When  night  had  covered  with  its  shadows  the  two  banks  of 
the  Euphrates — 

"Let  us  quit  this  place, "says  the  blind  Jezar  to  his  slave; 
"  the  voices  which  I  hear  from  the  other  side  seem  to  me  too 
far  off  for  the  range  of  my  arrows.     Bring  me  nearer  the  edge : 


/ 


298  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 


my  heart  tells  me  that  a  glorious  stroke  is  about  to  immortalise 
my  name  and  my  revenge  1  *' 

Nejim  takes  the  blind  man  by  the  hand ;  brings  him  close  to 
the  water ;  makes  him  sit  upon  the  bank  opposite  the  tent  of 
Antar,  and  gives  him  his  bow  and  quiver.  Jetar  chooses  the 
keenest  of  his  arrows,  places  it  upon  the  strings  and  with 
listening  ear  awaits  the  hour  of  vengeance. 

Meanwhile  Antar,  in  the  arms  of  Abla,  his  beloved  wife,  for 
whom  ten  years  of  possession  have  in  no  wise  diminished  his 
love,  was  foi^tting  within  his  tent  his  fatigue  and  exploits, 
when  the  dismal  howling  of  the  dogs — ^fiuthful  guardians  of 
the  camp— cast  a  prophetic  unquiet  into  his  souL 

He  rises  and  goes  out  of  his  tent.  The  sky  is  dark  and 
cloudy.  He  wanders,  feeling  his  way  in  the  darkness.  The 
louder  voices  of  the  dogs  attract  him  to  the  river.  Impelled 
by  his  fi&te,  he  goes  forward,  right  up  to  the  bed  of  the  water  ; 
and,  suspecting  the  presence  of  some  enemy  on  the  opposite 
bank,  he  calls  to  his  brother  in  a  loud  voice  to  search  the 
other  side. 

Scarcely  does  his  resounding  voice  echo  in  the  hollow  bed  of 
the  valley  of  the  Euphrates,  reverberating  in  the  rocks  and 
mountains,  when  an  arrow  pierces  his  right  side,  and  penetrates 
to  his  entrails.  No  cry — ^no  groan  unworthy  of  a  hero— escapes 
him  through  his  pain.  He  withdraws  the  iron  with  a  firm 
hand. 

**  Traitor,  who  has  not  dared  to  attack  me  in  the  light  of 
day  I "  cries  he  in  a  loud  voice  to  his  invisible  enemy — "  thou 
shalt  not  escape  my  vengeance ! — thou  shalt  not  enjoy  the  fruit 
of  thy  perfidy  !  *' 

At  that  voice,  which  makes  him  think  that  his  arrow  has 
missed  its  mark,  the  blind  Jezar,  struck  by  terror  at  the  thought 
of  the  vengeance  of  Antar,  swoons  upon  the  bank,  and  his  slave, 
thinking  him  dead,  flies  upon  his  camel,  leaving  hb  inanimatr 
master  where  he  lay.  Antar's  brother  swims  across  the  river, 
stumbles  against  a  body  which  he  takes  for  a  corpse,  and  bears  it 
upon  his  shouldefs,  with  the  bow  and  arrows,  to  the  camp. 


DEATH  OF  THE  HERO.  299 


III. 

Antar,  stretched  in  his  tent  amidst  his  despairing  friends,  is 
suffering  horrible  torments :  the  tender  Abla  is  stanching  his 
blood,  bathing  the  wound  with  her  tears. 

They  bring  the  body  of  the  assassin,  the  bow  and  the  arrows, 
into  the  tent.  Antar  recognises  the  mutilated  countenance  of  his 
enemy :  he  no  longer  doubts  that  the  arrow  discharged  by  such  a 
hand  was  poisoned.  Hope  leaves  his  heart :  death  inevitable 
presents  itself  before  his  eyes. 

"  Son  of  my  uncle  ! "  says  Abla  tenderly  to  him,  "  why  abandon 
hope?  Ought  a  slight  arrow-wound  to  alarm  him  who  has 
confronted  without  fear  so  many  swords  and  spears,  the  wounds 
from  which  cover  his  body  ?  " 

''Abla,'*  replies  Antar,  "my  hours  are  numbered.  Look  at 
the  features  of  that  face ; — it  is  Jezar :  the  traitor's  arrow  was 
poisoned ! " 

At  these  words  Abla  fills  the  night  with  her  sobs ;  she  rends 
her  garments  ;  she  tears  her  long  hair,  and  picks  up  dust,  which 
she  scatters  on  her  head.  All  the  women  of  the  encampment 
re-echo  her  lamentations. 

"Dear  wife!"  says  Antar  to  Abla,  "who  will  defend  thy 
honour  and  thy  life  after  the  death  of  Antar,  in  that  long  journey 
which  remains  for  thee  to  make  through  our  enemies  before 
reaching  thy  father's  land  ?  A  second  husband,  another  I,  can 
alone  save  thee  from  the  horrors  of  slavery.  Of  all  the  warriors 
of  the  desert,  Zeid  and  Amnem  are  those  whose  courage  will 
best  protect  thy  life  and  thy  liberty  :  choose  one  of  those,  and  go 
and  promise  him  thy  hand." 

Abla  replies  not  but  by  her  tears  to  a  thought  which  is  to  her 
horrible. 

"  To  return  to  the  land  where  dwell  the  children  of  Abs — to 
assure  thy  passage  through  the  desert  which  separates  thee  from 
it — clothe  thyself  with  my  arms  and  mount  my  courser  Abjer. 
In  this  disguise,  which  will  make  our  enemies  think  that  I  still 
live,  fear  not  of  being  attacked.     Reply  nothing  to  those  who 


300  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


salute  thee  upon  the  road  :  the  sight  of  the  arms  and  the  horse  of 
Antar  will  suffice  to  intimidate  the  boldest" 


IV. 


Antar  after  these  words  orders  the  departure.  They  strike  the 
tents,  fold  them,  and  place  them  upon  the  camels.  Abla,  bathed 
in  her  tears,  constrains  herself,  through  obedience,  to  don  the 
heavy  armour  of  Antar.  Girt  with  his  sword,  holding  his  straight 
spear  in  her  hand,  she  mounts  his  courser  Abjer,  whilst  the  slaves 
lay  the  dying  Antar  in  the  litter  in  which  Abla  used  to  travel  in 
happier  days,  when  she  crossed,  like  a  queen,  the  desert 

Scarce  have  they  lost  sight  of  the  verdant  banks  of  the 
Euphrates  to  plunge  into  the  immensity  of  the  desert,  when  they 
perceive  in  the  distance  tents,  like  dark  dots  on  the  horizon,  or 
a  black  fringe  on  the  blue  mantle  of  heaven.  It  is  a  numerous 
and  ^werful  tribe.  Three  hundred  horsemen  advance  to  &U 
upon  the  caravan ;  but,  on  approaching,  they  recognise  the  litter 
and  the  horse. 

"  'Tis  Antar  and  Abla ! "  they  say  to  one  another  in  a  low 
voice — "  see,  there,  his  arms,  his  horse  Abjer,  and  Abla's  splendid 
litter.  Let  us  return  to  our  tents,  and  not  expose  ourselves  to 
the  anger  of  these  invincible  warriors." 

Already  they  are  turning  the  rein,  when  an  old  sheikh,  more 
reflective  and  more  sagacious  than  the  young  men,  says : 

'*  My  cousins,  that  is  indeed  the  spear  of  Antar,  that  b  indeed 
his  helmet,  his  armour,  and  his  courser,  whose  colour  resembles  a 
dark  night ; — ^but  that  is  neither  his  lofty  figure  nor  his  manly 
bearing.  It  is  the  figure  and  the  deportment  of  a  timid  woman, 
borne  down  by  the  weight  of  the  iron  which  galls  her  firail 
limbs.  Believe  my  surmises — Antar  is  dead,  or  else  a  mortal 
illness  hinders  him  from  mounting  his  horse ;  and  this  &lse 
warrior  whom  Abjer  bears  is  Abla,  who,  to  frighten  us,  has  clad 
herself  with  her  husband's  arms,  whilst  the  real  Antar  is  perchance 
laid  dying  in  the  women's  litter.' 


>f 


,^ 


DEATH  OF  THE  HERO,  301 


The  horsemen,  recognising  something  probable  in  the  old  man's 
words,  retrace  their  steps  and  follow  at  a  distance  the  caravan, 
without  daring  to  attack  it 

V. 

Now  the  feeble  arm  of  Abla  is  bending  beneath  the  weight  of 
the  iron  spear  :  she  is  obliged  to  hand  it  to  her  husband's  brother, 
who  walks  beside  her.  Soon,  when  the  sun,  arrived  half-way  in 
his  coarse,  had  made  the  sand  of  the  desert  glow  like  fire,  Abla, 
worn  out  with  suffering  and  fatigue,  raises  the  vizor  of  her  helmet, 
to  wipe  off  the  sweat  which  bathed  her  forehead*  The  eyes  of 
the  hostile  Arabs  who  are  watching  her  catch  a  glimpse  of  the 
whiteness  of  her  face  : 

"It  is  not  the  Black ! "  they  cry  ;  and  they  dash  with  all  the 
speed  of  their  horses  upon  the  tracks  of  Antar's  little  troop. 

At  the  gallop  of  their  horses  behind  him — at  the  neighing  of 
their  steeds — at  the  voice  of  Abla,  which  calls  him — ^Antar,  who 
is  lying  half  dead  in  the  litter,  rises,  shows  his  head  from  between 
the  curtains,  and  utters,  for  the  last  time,  his  terrible  war-cry, 
known  of  all  the  desert  The  manes  of  the  horses  stand  erect : 
the  horses  bear  their  riders  rigid  with  terror. 

"  Woe  to  us  ! "  say  the  Arabs,  enemies  of  Abs, — "  Antar  still 
lives !  It  is  a  snare  which  he  has  laid  :  he  has  wished  to  know 
which  is  the  tribe  so  bold  as  after  him  to  aspire  to  capture  his 
wife  and  his  possessions.** 

Only  a  small  number,  still  trusting  the  voice  of  the 'old  sheikh, 
continue  to  follow  afar  the  caravan. 


VI. 

Antar,  spite  of  his  weakness,  places  Abla  in  the  litter,  and 
mounted  upon  Abjer,  clad  in  his  arms,  he  marches  slowly 
beside  her. 

At  the  close  of  the  day,,  they  reach  a  valley  not  far  from 
the  tribe  of  Abs.      This   place  was    called    the   "Valley  of 


302  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR, 

Gazelles.'*  Surrounded  by  inaccessible  mountains,  one  could 
only  enter  it  from  the  desert  side  by  a  narrow  and  tortuous 
pass,  where  three  horsemen  could  scarcely  march  abreast 
Antar,  stopping  at  the  opening  of  this  defile,  causes  first  to 
enter  his  flocks,  his  slaves,' and  the  camel  which  bears  the  litter 
of  his  dear  Abla.  When  the  whole  caravan  is  in  safety  in  the 
valley,  he  comes  back,  to  stand  alone  as  sentinel  at  the  end  of 
the  gorge,  opposite  the  plain  and  the  Arabs  who  are  following 
him  afar.  At  this  moment  his  agonies  increase ;  his  entrails  are 
torn ;  each  step  of  his  courser  makes  him  su£fer  torments  like  to 
the  fire  of  hell.  Death  invades  his  limbs,  and  yet  reveres  his 
dauntless  souL  He  faces  the  Arabs  ;  he  stops  Abjer  ;  he  plants 
the  point  of  his  spear  in  the  ground,  and  leaning  against  the  stem, 
like  a  resting  warrior  allowing  his  horse  to  breathe,  he  stands 
motionless  at  the  entrance  of  the  pass. 


VII. 

At  that  sight,  the  thirty  warriors  who  have  hitherto  followed 
the  tracks  of  his  caravan  halt,  hesitating,  a  few  hundred  steps 
from  the  hero. 

"  Antar,"  say  they  to  one  another,  "  has  noticed  that  we  were 
following  his  march  ;  he  awaits  us  there  to  slay  us  all ; — let  us 
profit  by  the  shades  of  night  which  fall,  to  escape  his  sword  and 
rejoin  our  brothers. " 

But  the  old  sheikh,  steadfast  in  his  opinion,  keeps  them  still. 

**  My  cousins,''  says  he  to  them  in  a  low  voice,  "heed  not 
the  counsels  of  fear.  The  immobility  of  Antar  is  the  sleep  of 
death  ! — What !  do  you  not  know  his  fiery  courage?  Has 
Antar  ever  wailed  for  his  enemy?  Were  he  living,  would  not 
he  fall  upon  us,  as  the  vulture  falls  upon  his  prey? — Come  on, 
then,  bravely  ;  or,  if  you  refuse  to  risk  your  lives  against  his 
sword,  at  least  wait  till  dawn  arises,  and  clears  away  your 
doubts," 

Half  persuaded  by  the  old  man,  the  thirty  horsemen  reserve 
to  remain  where  they  are  ;  but,  always  troubled  and  alarmed  at 


DEATH  OF  THE  HERO.  303 


the  least  cloud  of  dust  which  the  wind  raises  about  the  feet  of 
Abjer,  they  pass  the  whole  night  on  horseback,  allowing  not 
their  eyes  to  close  in  sleep. 


VIII. 

At  length  the  day  begins  to  lighten  the  sky,  and  to  clear  away 
the  shades  which  cover  the  desert.  Antar  is  still  in  the  same 
attitude  at  the  entrance  of  the  pass  :  his  courser,  obedient  to  his 
thought,  is  motionless  as  his  master. 

At  this  strange  spectacle  the  astounded  warriors  consult  long 
before  coming  to  a  decision.  All  appearances  say  to  their  hearts 
that  Antar  has  ceased  to  live ;  and  yet  not  one  of  them  dares 
advance  to  make  sure :  so  strong  is  the  habitude  of  fear  which 
the  hero  inspires !  .  .  .  The  old  sheikh  wishes  to  convince 
himself  and  them  by  a  proof  before  flying  or  advancing. 
He  descends  from  his  mare,  lets  go  the  bridle,  and  pricking 
her  haunch  with  the  point  of  his  spear,  he  drives  her  towards 
the  entrance  of  the  pass.  Scarcely  has  she  reached  in  her 
course  the  border  of  the  desert  next  the  gorge,  when  the 
fiery  stallion  Abjer  darts  neighing  after  the  riderless  mare. 
At  the  first  bound  of  the  courser,  Antar,  supported  only  by 
the  stem  of  his  spear,  which  slips  away  from  under  him,  falls 
like  a  tower,  and  the  clang  of  his  armour  resounds  in  the  pass. 

At  that  fall — the  sound  of  a  lifeless  body  falling  upon  the 
earth — the  thirty  horsemen  flock  round  the  corpse  stretched 
at  their  horses'  feet.  They  marvel  to  see  lying  motionless  in 
the  desert  him  who  made  Arabia  tremble.  They  cannot  resist 
measuring  with  their  eyes  his  gigantic  limbs  and  stature. 
Foregoing  the  attack  upon  the  caravan  of  Abla — to  which 
the  stratagem  of  Antar  had  given  an  entire  night  to  reach  the 
tents  of  the  tribe  of  Abs — the  warriors  content  themselves 
with  robbing  the  hero  of  his  arms,  to  carry  them  to  their  tribe 
as  a  trophy  conquered  by  death.  In  vain  they  endeavour  to 
capture  his  courser.  The  faithful  Abjer,  having  scented  his 
master  dead,  feels  that  there  is  no  longer  a  rider  worthy  of 


304 


ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


him :  fleeter  than  the  lightning,  he  escapes  them,  disappears 
from  their  eyes,  and  plunges  into  the  freedom  of  the  desert. 

They  say  that  the  old  sheikh,  softened  by  the  fate  of  the  hero 
who  had  made  himself  illustrious  by  so  many  exploits,  wept 
over  his  corpse,  covered  it  with  sand,  and  addressed  to  it  these 
words: 

Glory  to  theb,  brave  warrior  I   who,  during  thy 

LIFE,  HAST  BEEN  THE  DEFENDER  OF  THY  TRIBE,  AND  WHO, 
EVEN  AFTER  THY  DEATH,  HAST  SAVED  THY  BRETHREN  BY 
THE  TERROR  OF  THY  CORPSE  AND  OF  THY  NAME  !  BfAY  THY 
SOUL  LIVE  FOR  EVER  !  MaY  THE  REFRESHING  DEWS  MOISTEN 
THE  GROUND  OF  THIS  THY  LAST  EXPLOIT  ! 


THE    "BUR  DA," 


t,  f.. 


THE  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 

BY 

KA*B,  SON  OF  ZUHAYR,  SON  OF  ABU  SULMA  ; 

RECITED      BY      HIM      BEFORE      MUHAMMAD,      AT      MADINA^ 

IN     THE     NINTH     YEAR     OF     THE     HIJRA, 

AFTER    THE  CONQUEST  OF  MAKKA. 


TRANSLATED^  WITH  PREFACE  AMD  NOTES, 

BY 

J.  W.  REDHOUSE,  Esq.,  M.R.A,S., 

HON.    MEMB.    R.S.L.,    ETC. 


Nee  omittendum  est  Caab  Ebni  Zoheir  carmen^  cuj'tis 
hoc  est  itiitium  admirabile  : 

"  Abiit  (arnica  mea)  Sodda,  et  cor  meum  hodie  dolore 
percitum  (rdinquitur)^ 

"  Amove  confechim^  et  vincuiis  constrictum^  a  qia'bus 
nulla  est  redemptio" 

— Poeseos  Asiaticse  commentariorum  libri  sex ;  auctore 
Gulielmo  Jones,  A.M.    Lipsise,  1777. 


^  ^  >>  ^'^^ 


^  -^ 


PREFACE. 

KA'B,  the  Poet,  and  Muhammad,  the  Lawgiver,  were 
issued,  each  by  seventeen  and  fifteen  degrees  of 
descent  respectively,  from  a  common  ancestor,  Ilyas, 
son  of  Mudhar,  son  of  Nizar,  son  of  *Adnan.  This  last,  'Adnan, 
was  himself  a  descendant,  in  some  very  uncertain  degree  and 
line,  of  Ishmael,  the  son  of  Abraham,  forefather  of  the  Children 
of  Israel  by  his  other  son  Isaac.  Most,  but  not  all,  Arabians 
trace  their  pedigrees  to  this  *  Ad  nan.  Muhammad  was  descended 
from  Mudrika,  son  of  Ilyas,  while  Ka*b  claimed  descent  from 
Tabikha,  a  brother  of  Mudrika. 

Ka*b  was  a  son  of  Zuhayr,  son  of  Abu  Sulmk.  He  had  a  brother 
named  Bujayr;  and,  like  their  father,  both  these  brothers  were 
poets  in  an  eminent  degree.     Ka*b  had  two  sons,  also  lyrists. 

Zuhayr  is  the  author  of  one  of  the  pre- Islamite  poems  known 
as  the  Mu'allaqat,  translations  of  which,  by  Sir  William  Jones, 
,  form  part  of  the  present  volume.  That  poem  was  a  pro- 
duction of  his  old  age.  He  is  said  to  have  frequented  the 
society  of  men  learned  in  the  various  religions  then  extant,  and 
thus  to  have  become  aware  of  a  general  expectancy,  at  that 
period,  by  the  most  pious  and  best  informed,  of  the  appearance 
of  a  great  apostle,  who  should  reconcile  all  divergences  and 
unite  mankind  in  a  pure  worship  of  the  one  sole  God,  who 
had  revealed  the  truth  to  the  prophets  of  old.  He  is  said  to 
have  seen  in  a  vision,  shortly  before  his  death,  a  rope  let 
down  from  heaven,  which  he  essayed  to  grasp,  but  which  he 
found  to  be  beyond  his  reach.  This  he  interpreted  to  himself 
as  a  revelation  that  the  advent  of  the  long-expected  apostle  was 
at  hand,  but  that  the  poet  would  not  himself  live  long  enough 


3o8  KA'B'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 


to  see  and  hear  him.  He  recounted  his  vision,  and  his  interpre- 
tation of  the  same,  to  his  two  sons,  whom  he  advised  to  be  on 
the  outlook,  and  to  accept  the  teachings  of  the  new  apostle,  if 
he  should  appear  in  their  time.     Zuhayr  then  died. 

Accordingly,  when  the  fame  of  the  teachings  of  Muhammad 
became  noised  abroad  among  the  cities  of  Arabia  and  the 
children  of  its  deserts,  and  also  the  news  of  his  various  victories, 
culminating  in  the  submission  of  his  native  city,  Makka,  and  its 
confederates,  to  his  sway,  it  happened  that  Ka*b  and  his  brother 
Bujayr  were  led,  in  conducting  their  flocks  and  herds  to  the 
summer  pasturages,  into  the  neighbourhood  of  the  newly- 
conquered  districts.  Naturally,  the  two  poet-brothers  conversed 
together,  and  with  their  neighbours,  about  the  new  doctrine 
and  dominion.  These  consultations  ended  in  Bujayr's  pro- 
posing to  go  to  Muhammad  and  learn  for  himself  what  was 
the  truth  of  the  matter.  He  sought  the  Apostle,  in  consequence, 
and  soon  embraced  the  faith  of  Islam. 

Tidings  of  the  lapse  of  his  brother  from  the  religion  of  their 
forefathers  reached  Ka*b,  who  thereupon  became  ver}'  much 
incensed.  He  composed  a  lampoon  on  his  brother  and  the 
Prophet,  together  with  their  new  religion.  This  he  sent  to 
his  brother  by  the  mouth  of  a  messenger.  Bujayr  thought  it 
his  duty  to  lay  the  circumstance  before  Muhammad,  who  had 
now  returned  to  ^TadIna.  He  recited  the  lampoon  to  the 
ccmqucror,  who  commented  on  its  words,  turning  them  all  to 
the  praise  of  the  new  faith  and  himself,  to  the  condemnation  of 
Ka*b.  Then,  as  appears  to  have  been  a  rule  with  him  towards 
all  his  waspish  satirists,  Muhammad  passed  a  sentence  of  death 
upon  his  new  assailant,  who  was  to  receive  no  quarter,  should 
he  fall  into  the  hands  of  any  future  expeditionarj'  Muslims. 

Bujayr — knowing  how  several  lampoonists  of  the  Quraysh, 
formerly  denounced,  had  been  slaughtered  by  the  incense<l 
victors,  in  the  first  moments  of  the  occupation  of  Makka, 
while  others  had  only  saved  their  lives  by  flight  and  exile, 
and  others  again  had  been  most  generously  pardoned  by  the 
Prophet  himself,  on  their  seeking  liis  personal  protection  and 


PREFACE,  309 


adopting  the  faith — ^became  deeply  alarmed  at  the  danger  in 
which  he  had  placed  his  brother.  He  therefore,  in  his  turn, 
composed  a  poem,  which  he  sent  orally  to  Ka'b,  and  advised 
him  to  do  what  the  most  eminent  were  doing — renounce  his 
errors,  and  come  in  to  the  Prophet  repentant ;  warning  him  of 
what  would  otherwise  be  his  certain  fate. 

It  appears  that  the  circumstances  became  noised  abroad. 
Enemies  of  Ka*b  assailed  him  in  verse,  blackening  him  in 
every  way,  as  is  usual  in  like  cases.  He  probably  heard  also 
that  some  of  them  were  preparing  to  attack  him  with  more 
lethal  weapons.  He  therefore  had  recourse  to  one  of  the 
Arabian  customs,  and  fled  for  protection  to  a  powerful  neigh- 
bour and  old  friend.  Here  he  was  told  that  his  friend  could 
not  venture  to  shield  him  against  the  all-powerful  foe  whose 
wrath  had  been  excited ;  while  everywhere  he  was  greeted 
with  jibes  as  to  his  being  already  virtually  a  dead  man. 

Ka'b  now  formed  the  resolution  of  a  desperate,  but  wise  and 
brave  man.  He  set  out  secretly  for  Madlna,  found  there  an  old 
friend,  claimed  his  protection,  and  was  by  him,  the  next  morning 
at  dawn,  conducted  to  the  then  most  simple  meeting-house 
where  Muhammad  and  his  chief  followers  performed  their 
devotions  of  worship  and  praise  (not  prayer).  His  friend 
indicated  the  Prophet  to  Ka*b,  who  recognised  the  person 
and  features  he  had  heard  descril)ed.  The  service  ended,  Ka*b 
approached  Muhammad,  and  the  two  sat  down  together. 
Ka'b  placed  his  own  right  hand  in  that  of  the  Prophet,  whom 
he  addressed  in  the  words :  "Apostle  of  God,  were  I  to  bring  to 
you  Ka'b  the  son  of  Zuhayr,  penitent  and  professing  the  faith  of 
Islam,  wouldst  thou  receive  and  accept  him  ?  " — ^The  Prophet 
answered  :  **  I  would.'* — **  Then,"  said  the  Poet,  **  I  am  he." 

Immediately  on  this  intelligence  Wng  heard  by  the  bystanders, 
one  of  the  men  of  Madlna  seized  Ka'b,  and  demanded  the 
Prophet's  permission  to  put  him  to  death.  Muhammad  com- 
manded his  zealous  partisan  to  desist ;  but  the  incident  raiseil 
in  the  Poet  a  feeling  of  resentment,  to  which  he  gave  vent 
immediately  afterwards.      For  he   now  improvised,   probably 


3IO  A^A'B'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 


with  more  or  less  premeditation,  the  Poem  of  which  a  trans- 
lation is  here  given,  in  which,  Arab  fashion  at  the  period, 
after  an  exordium  in  praise  of  some  real  or  imaginary  Ix-auty, 
and  of  the  camel  on  which  alone  she  could  be  reached  in 
her  distant  abode,  he  passes  to  a  cursory  mention  of  what 
had  happened  to  himself  since  his  denunciation  by  the  Prophet, 
ending,  at  the  thirty-eighth  verse,  with  a  description  of  hi:* 
present  interview,  his  hope  of  pardon,  his  awe  at  the  dread 
vengeance  he  had  evoked,  a  cleverly  introduced  eulogium 
on  the  '*  Emigrants  "  from  Makka,  and  a  scathing  cut  at  the 
"dwarfish  tawny  [>fadina]  men  "  who  "ran  away."  It  is  said 
that  when  Ka'b  reached  the  fifty-first  verse:  "Verily  the  Apostle 
is  a  Light  from  which  illumination  is  sought :  a  drawn  Indian 
blade — one  of  the  Swords  of  God,"  Muhammad  took  from  his 
own  shoulders  the  mantle  he  wore,  and  threw  it  over  the 
shoulders  of  the  Poet,  as  an  honour,  and  as  a  mark  of  protection. 
This  incident  has  been  the  cause  of  the  title  given  henceforth  to 
the  effusion  :  The  Poem  of  the  Mantle. 

It  is  said  that  after  Mu*awiya,  the  first  Caliph  of  the  house  of 
*Umayya,  had  firmly  established  his  sway  over  Syria  and  Eg^pt, 
he  sent  a  messenger  to  Ka'b,  and  offered  him  ten  thousand 
pieces  of  silver  for  the  deceased  Prophets  sacreil  mantle;  ]>ut 
that  Ka'b  refused  to  part  with  the  relic  to  any  one.  \Mien  the 
Poet  died,  the  Caliph  sent  another  messenger  to  his  heirs,  and 
offered  them  twenty  thousand  pieces  for  the  mantle,  which  now 
l)assed  into  his  possession.  It  has,  ever  since,  been  reverently 
prescr\'ed  by  the  head  of  the  realm  of  Islam.  In  the  treasur}*  of 
the  Sultan-Caliph  of  the  Ottomans,  at  Constantinople,  there  is 
an  apartment,  named  the  "  Room  of  the  Sacred  Mantle,*^  in 
which  this  rolie  is  religiously  preserved,  together  with  a  few  other 
relics  of  the  great  Lawgiver. 

As  an  instance  of  the  surpassing  richness  of  the  Arabian 
tongue,  it  maybe  mentioned  that  Ka*bs  "Poem  of  the  Mantle*" 
now  nearly  thirteen  hundred  years  old,  is  found  recorded  in 
manuscripts  with  \'ariant  words  in  great  number,  though  still 
presen'ing  the  one  sense.     A  collector,  curious  in  the  matter. 


PREFACE,  311 

is  recorded,  who  knew  by  heart  seven  hundred  variations 
of  the  Poem ;  but,  not  long  after,  a  more  successful 
hunter  raised  the  number  to  nine  hundred.  With  such 
variety  of  expression,  commentators  have  had  a  glorious 
task ;  and  it  may  easily  be  understood  that  volumes  wouki  be 
required  to  give  the  whole  detail.  In  the  present  translation, 
that  version  has  been  followed  which  is  given  in  Westerfeld's 
edition  of  ''The  Life  of  Muhammed,  based  on  Muhammed 
Ibn  Ishak,  by  Abd  El-Malik  Ibn  Hisham,"  published  by 
Messrs.  N.  Triibner  &  Co.,  London,  1867.  I  have  made  but 
one  alteration  to  it,  of  a  single  word  in  verse  56,  authorised  by 
two  commentaries,  and  without  which  the  clause  appears  to  me 
untranslatable. 

J.  W.  REDHOUSE. 

London,  July,  1880. 


KA'B'S    POEM   OF  THE   MANTLE. 

[EATRICE  [Su'ad]  hath  departed  There- 
fore was  my  heart  that  day  distracted, 
raving  after  her,  irredeemably  enchained. 

2.  On  the  morrow  of  our  separation, 
when  she  went  forth,  Beatrice  was  no  other  than  a 
bleating  antelope,  with  downcast  glance,  and  eyes 
set  off  with  collyrium. 

3.  When  she  smiles,  she  displays  [a  row  of]  teeth  of 
glancing  whiteness,  as  though  it  had  been  a  damas- 
keened sword-blade,  once  tempered,  and  then  dipped 
a  second  time  in  wine, 

4.  Dashed,  on  a  cold  day,  with  water  from  a  mean- 
dering stream,  clear,  and  flowing  in  a  wide,  pebbly 
channel,  fanned  by  a  north  wind  when  the  day  is 
high; 

5.  From  which  the  winds  banish  all  sticks  and 
straws,  and  on  which  the  silvery  bubbles  raised  by  a 
morning  rain  appear  in  great  numbers. 

6.  God  bless  her  mother !  for  the  darling  she  would 
have  been,  had  she  kept  true  to  her  promise,  and  if 
advice  had  been  acceptable  [to  her]  ! 

7.  But  she  is  a  darling,  in  the  very  blood  of  whom 
are  blended  pain,  anxiety,  disappointment,  and  change ! 

8.  She  remains  not  constant  to  any  state  she  may 
have  assumed,  even  as  the  demon  of  the  wilds  varies 
in  its  costume ! 


KA'B'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE,  313 


9.  She  does  not  hold  to  any  promise  she  has 
spoken,  save  as  sieves  hold  water  I 

10.  [The  proverbial  expression,]  "the  promises  of 
'Urqub"  is  [as  it  were]  a  parable  concerning  her; 
and  his  promises  were  naught  but  lies  ! 

11.  I  wish  and  desire  that  they  would  become 
present  in  an  eternity:  but  what  ails  them,  then? 
I  feel  the  whole  duration  of  time  an  impatience  ! 

1 2.  Let  not,  then,  that  deceive  thee  which  she  has 
bestowed,  or  which  she  has  promised.  Verily,  desires 
and  dreams  are  a  delusion ! 

13.  Beatrice  is  to-day  in  a  land  where  naught  can 
enable  one  to  reach  her,  save  the  noble,  generous, 
free-going  she-camels. 

14.  And  certainly  nothing  could  carry  one  to  her, 
save  a  huge  and  dauntless  she-camel,  possessed,  against 
fatigue,  of  speed  and  endurance  \ 

15.  Of  those  which  drench  the  roots  of  their  ears 
when  they  sweat;  whose  unknown  energy  blurs  all  the 
road-marks ; 

16.  Who  looks  at  the  highlands  with  the  eyes  of  an 
isolated  white  addax,  when  the  rocky  flats  and  sand- 
hills are  [as  it  were]  on  fire ; 

17.  Whose  neck  is  thick  where  her  collar  sits;  whose 
pastern  is  plump ;  in  whose  build  there  is  a  superiority 
over  the  daughters  of  the  stallion-camel ; 

18.  Large-headed,  large-jawed,  strongly  formed;  in 
whose  side  is  capaciousness;  whose  neck  is  an  obelisk; 


314  KA'B'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 


19.  Whose  hide  is  that  of  a  sea-turtle,  on  which 
tikes,  slim  in  the  loins  and  meagre,  can  make  no 
impression ; — 

20.  A  graceful  creature ;  whose  brother  is  her  father 
out  of  a  full-blooded  dam,  and  whose  paternal  uncle 
is  also  her  maternal  uncle;  who  is  long  in  the  back, 
and  agile ; 

21.  Upon  whom  the  tikes  crawl;  which  are  then 
dropped  off  by  a  chest  and  by  flanks  that  are  sleek ; — 

22.  A  very  wild-ass ;  who,  from  plumpness,  might 
be  accused  of  too  much  flesh ;  whose  elbow  is  twisted 
out  from  her  chest-ribs ; 

23.  Aquiline  of  nose;  in  whose  ears,  to  an  observer, 
there  is  manifest  nobility ;  in  whose  cheeks  is  a 
smoothness ; 

24.  As  though  what  stands  out  in  front  of  her  two 
eyes  and  of  the  stabbing-place  of  her  throat,  as  her 
muzzle  and  jaw-sides,  were  a  millstone-pick ; 

25.  Who  whisks  [a  tail]  the  like  of  a  palm-branch, 
set  with  tufts  of  hair,  against  a  flat  udder,  which  the 
teats  have  never  made  to  shrink ; 

26.  Who,  as  she  plays,  alights  on  agile,  slender  legs, 
the  fall  of  which  on  the  earth  is  a  mere  pat ; 

27.  Dusky  in  their  tendinous  parts,  which  leave  the 
pebbles  scattered;  and  which  no  [leather]  shoeing 
protects  from  the  black  [basaltic]  stones  of  the  hills, 

28.  On  which,  by  day,  the  chameleon  remains  on 
the  outlook,  as  though  his  back,  exposed  to  the  sun, 
were  turned  to  ashes  in  the  fire, 


KA'B'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.  315 


29.  When  the  leader  of  a  party  has  said  to  them — 
the  piebald  locusts  having  already  begun  to  kick  the 
pebbles — "  Make  your  siesta ; " 

30.  The  alternating  play  of  whose  fore-legs  [they 
having  already  sweated,  and  the  mirages  having  already 
shone  on  the  rocks] 

31.  Is  [as  it  were]  the  alternating  movement  of 
the  hands  of  a  bereaved,  grizzly,  howling  woman, 
standing  up,  and  answered  by  [other]  bereaved  ones 
suffering  from  unsucked  milk  j 

32.  lamenting,  her  arms  drooping,  deprived  of 
reason  when  the  bringers  of  bad  news  announced  the 
[menaced]  death  of  her  first-bom ; 

33.  Who  tear?  her  breast  with  her  two  hands,  her 
corset  being  burst  into  tatters  away  from  her  chest-ribs ; 

34.  By  whose  side  walk  the  misinformers,  their 
words  being :  "  O  thou  son  of  Abu  Sulmk,  verily  thou 
art  already  slain ! " 

35.  And  each  faithful  friend,  from  whom  I  had 
entertained  hope  [of  protection  from  Muhammad's 
emissaries],  said  to  me  :  **  I  will  not  deceive  thee ;  I 
am  busy  with  other  things  than  thee." 

36.  Then  I  spoke  out :  "  Make  ye  way  for  me ; — 
may  your  fathers  perish !  For  all  that  the  Most 
Merciful  [God]  hath  forewilled  will  be  accomplished : 

37.  "  Every  son  of  a  female,  long  though  his  safety 
may  be,  is  one  day  borne  upon  a  ridged  implement 
[a  bier  with  a  ridged  lid]." 


3i6  AWB'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 


38.  I  have  been  informed  that  the  Apostle  of  God 
hath  threatened  me;  but  pardon  is  hoped  for  from  the 
Apostle  of  God 

39.  "  Respite  ! — May  He  guide  thee  [O  Apostle  I] 
aright,  who  hath  given  thee  the  free  gift  of  the  Qur'an, 
in  which  are  exhortations  and  detail ! — 

40.  ''  Punish  me  not,  then,  at  the  words  of  calum- 
niators :  for  I  have  not  offended,  though  stories  have 
multiplied  concerning  me." 

41.  Verily,  I  occupy  a  position,  such  that,  were  the 
elephant  [of  Abraha]  to  occupy  it,  and  were  to  see  and 
hear  what  I  hear  [and  see], 

42.  Out  of  distraction  would  his  shoulders  tremble, 
unless  generosity  were  shown  by  the  Apostle  of  God. 

43.  I  ceased  not  to  traverse  the  wilderness,  pene- 
trating the  folds  of  darkness,  the  skirts  of  night  having 
dropped  over  all, 

44.  Until  I  have  placed  my  right  hand,  which  I  will 
not  remove,  in  the  palm  of  him  who  had  a  claim  to 
vengeance, — whose  word  is  the  word. 

45.  A  mere  plaything  unto  me  was  the  most  terrible 
object,  when  I  spoke  to  him,  and  it  was  said  [unto 
me] :  "  Thou  art  accused  and  responsible  ! " 

46.  By  a  lion,  whose  den  is  in  a  level  spot  of  the 
land,  in  the  marshy  hollow  of  *Aththar,  surroimded  by 
jungle  upon  jungle ; 


KA'B'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.  317 


47.  Who  goes  forth  in  the  morning  and  provides 
with  food  two  cubs,  that  feed  on  the  flesh  of  men 
soiled  in  the  dust  and  torn  into  fragments ; 

48.  Who,  when  he  attacks  his  equal,  is  not  per- 
mitted to  leave  that  equal  otherwise  than  mortified ; 

49.  From  whom  the  wild  asses  of  the  desert  take 
flight,  and  in  whose  valley  bands  of  men  cannot  march ; 

50.  In  whose  valley  there  never  lacks  a  man  of 
courage,  whose  weapons  are  soiled  with  blood,  his 
garments  in  shreds,  and  [himself]  eaten  ! 

51.  Verily  the  Apostle  of  God  is  a  Light  from  which 
illumination  is  sought:  a  drawn  Indian  blade— one 
of  the  Swords  of  God ; 

52.  Among  a  small  band  of  the  Quraysh,  whose 
spokesman  said,  in  the  Vale  of  Makka,  when  they  had 
embraced  Islam :  "  Depart  ye  ! " 

53.  And  they  did  depart.  But  there  departed  not 
[among  them]  the  poltroons,  the  dastards  in  time  of 
the  encounter,  the  puny,  and  the  unarmed. 

54.  They  walk  with  the  gait  of  light-coloured 
camels; — a  blow  protects  them;  while  the  dwarfish 
tawny  men  [of  Madina]  nm  away  : 

55.  Aquiline-nosed  heroes ;  whose  clothing,  in  com- 
bat, is  of  shirts  of  the  tissue  of  David — 

56.  Bright  and  ample,  interlaced  with  links  like  the 
tendrils  of  the  Qaf  *a  plant,  firmly  wove  together ; 


3i8  KA'B'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 

57.  ^Vho  are  not  boisterously  joyful  if  their  lances 
wound  a  foe;  and  who  piteously  bewail  not  when 
wounded ; 

58.  Whom  the  S])ear-thriisLs  hit  not,  save  on  ttie 
front  of  their  throaB :  for  whom  there  is  no  shrinking 
back  from  the  [battle-]  pools  of  death  1 


THE    "BURDA," 


ue. 


THE  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 


IN  PRAISE    OF  MUHAMMAD, 


BY 


EL-BUSIRI. 


TRANSLATED,  WITH  PREFACE  AND  NOTES, 

BY 

J.  W.  REDHOUSE,  Esq.,  M.R.A.S., 

HON.   MEMB.    R.S.L.,   ETC. 


BoRDAH. — Manteau  des  Arabes  contre  la  pluye^  et 
habit  grassier  des  Religieux  et  des  pauvres,  C  *est  ainsi 
qtion  appdle  aussi  un  excellent  Poeme  compost  par 
Scherefeddin  al  Busiri  h  la  louange  de  Mahomet y  duqiul 
il  se  vantait  d^ avoir  tttgueri  en  songe, 

Cet  ouvrage  est  si  fort  estime  par  mi  les  Mahometans , 
que  plusieurs  rapprennent  par  cceur^  et  en  citent  les  vers 
co7nme  autant  de  sentences,  Plusieurs  aussi  Pont  para- 
phrase et  comment^;  d  on  en  trouve  un  grand  fiombre  de 
versions  Persiennes  et  TurquesqueSy  tant  en  prose,  qt^en 
vers, — D'Herbelot :  Biblioth^que  Orientale. 


PREFACE. 


THIS  Poem  was  composed  by  Abu-'Abdi-'llah  Muhammad, 
son  of  Said,  of  Busir,  in  Upper  Egypt  (whence  his 
surname  of  **  Buslri "),  whose  cognomen  was  Sherefu-*d- 
Dln  (Honour  of  Religion).  His  prsenomen  of  Abu-*Abdi-'llah 
merely  states,  as  is  usual  with  Arabians,  that  he  had  a  son 
named  'Abdu-'llah  (Abdallah),  and  would  seldom  be  used 
by  any  but  very  intimate  friends.  Generally,  he  is  known  as 
Sherefu-'d-Din  Muhammad,  £l-BusirL  He  is  said  to  have  been 
bomA.H.  6o8(A.D.  121 1),  and  to  have  died  between  691  and 
700  (a.d.  1 291 -1 300). 

The  exact  date  of  the  Poem  is  not  known  ;  but  it  would 
appear  to  have  acquired  celebrity  while  a  certain  Baha'u-'d-Dm 
was  the  Vazir  of  £l-Maliku-'t-Tahir,  one  of  the  Mamluk  (slave) 
Kings  of  Egypt,  successors  to  the  dynasty  of  the  great  Salahu-*d- 
Din  (Saladin). 

Various  reasons  have  been  assigned  by  commentators,  without 
any  better  foundation  than  surmise  or  tradition,  for  the  com- 
position of  the  Poem.  The  author  himself,  however,  in  verse 
140,  gives  the  most  satisfactory  account  of  what  prompted  him 
to  undertake  the  task :  '*  by  which  I  seek  pardon  for  the  sins 
of  a  lifetime  passed  in  poetry  and  services."  It  was  a  doxology 
and  a  prayer  composed  in  old  age  by  a  pious  man  who  repented 
and  regretted  the  futilities  in  which  his  years  had  been  spent. 

With  regard  to  the  title  of  the  panegyric,  "The  Mantle 
Poem,'*  as  many  opinions  have  been  expressed  as  separate 
commentaries  have  been  written.  This  title  legitimately 
belongs  solely  to  the  eulogy  pronounced  on  Muhammad,  the 
great   Arabian    reformer   and   lawgiver,   in  his  presence,  by 

X 


322       EL'BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 

Ka*b,  the  son  of  Zuhayr,  which  was  recoinp>ensed  by  the 
bestowal  of  the  great  teacher's  mantle  on  the  eulogist  then 
and  there,  as  is  detailed  in  the  Preface  to  the  translation  of  that 
Poem,  as  given  in  the  present  volume.  But  the  title  has  been 
also  conferred  by  the  public  voice  on  the  Poem  of  Busir! ;  and 
commentators  have  sought  to  account  for  this  more  or  less 
reasonably.  One  relates  that  the  Poet  was  stricken  with  palsy, 
and  obtained  his  recovery  of  God  through  the  Prophet's  inter- 
cession at  the  invocation  contained  in  the  Poem.  Some  have 
thought  that  the  Poem  was  thence  named  the  **  Bur'a  Poem," 
the  word  bur^a  signifying  **a  cure,"  **a  recovery  ;"  afterwards 
corrupted,  by  ignorance  or  design,  into  the  well-known  name 
of  the  **Burda  Poem" — the  word  burda  signifying  **a  plaid 
wrapper.*'  Another  commentator  relates  that  the  Prophet 
appeared  to  the  sick  man  in  a  dream,  assured  him  of  his 
recovery,  and  threw  over  him  his  own  plaid  or  mantle, 
which  the  Poet  saw  spread  upon  his  bed  when  he  awoke 
and  found  himself  whole. 

The  entire  Poem,  and  also  selected  portions  of  it,  are  much 
used  as  chanted  recitations  in  cases  of  sickness  ;  and  even  when 
a  corpse  is  being  prepared  by  ablution  for  interment,  as  is 
mentioned  in  Lane*s  **Modem  Egyptians"  (p.  513,1.  12.  edition 
of  i860,  Murray,  London)  ;  also  during  the  funeral  procession 
(p.  5 1 7, 1.  12).  They  are  used,  too,  as  charms  or  amulets,  to  avert 
evil  and  to  secure  blessings,  by  being  written  out  and  suspended, 
in  frames,  in  rooms,  &c.,  or,  in  cases,  on  the  person.  The  Poem 
is  known  everywhere  in  the  world  of  Islam,  and  enjoys  a  much 
greater  veneration  than  the  original  eulogy  by  Ka*b,  since  it 
recites  in  detail  most  of  the  chief  acts  of  Muhammad's  life, 
and  of  his  highest  titles. 

J.  W.  REDHOUSE. 

London,  August,  1880, 


EL-BUSIRrS   POEM   OF  THE   MANTLE. 

S  it  from  a  recollection  of  neighbours  at 
Dhu-Salam  that  thou  hast  mixed  with 
blood  the  tears  flowing  from  an  eye- 
ball? 

2.  "Or,  has  the  wind  blown  from  the  direction  of 
Kadzima,  and  has  the  lightning  gleamed  in  the  dark- 
ness from  Itzam  ? 

3.  "What  ails  thy  two  eyes?  If  thou  sayest, 
^ Leave  off/  they  fill.  And  what  ails  thy  heart?  If 
thou  sayest,  '  Be  tranquil/  it  is  perplexed. 

4.  "  Does  the  deeply-entangled  lover  suppose  that 
affection  can  be  concealed,  when  it  is  being  partly 
wept  for,  and  partly  suffered  for  ? 

5.  "  Were  it  not  for  fondness,  thou  hadst  not  shed 
tears  over  projecting  ruins,  neither  hadst  thou  remained 
sleepless  with  the  memory  of  the  moringa-tree  and  the 
long  hill. 

6.  "  And  how  wilt  thou  deny  love,  when  the  truth- 
speaking  witnesses,  tears  and  wasting,  have  testified 
to  it  against  thee, 

7.  "  And  ardour  hath  fixed  upon  thy  cheeks  the  two 
lines  of  grief  and  woe,  like  unto  the  corn-marigold  and 
the  'anam?" 

8.  "  Yea !  The  phantom  of  her  I  love  passed  before 
me,  and  made  me  sleepless.  For  love  doth  dash 
delights  with  pain. 


324       EL'BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 

9.  "O  my  chider  for  an  excusable  affection! 
[receive]  an  excuse  from  me  to  thee :  and  if  thou  wert 
just,  thou  wouldst  not  have  reproached  me. 

10.  '^My  condition  hath  become  manifest  unto 
thee  j  my  secret  is  not  concealed  from  the  traducers ; 
nor  is  my  disease  cut  off. 

11.  "Thou  hast  given  unto  me  sincere  advice ;  but 
I  listen  not  thereto.  Verily  a  lover  is  in  a  state  of 
surdity  to  all  blamers  ! " 

IS.  In  truth,  I  have  suspected  my  sincere  gray 
hairs  of  being  among  my  blamers ;  but  my  gray  hairs 
are  very  far  from  blamings  in  giving  advice. 

13.  For,  indeed,  the  dominating  spirit  that  com- 
mands me  to  do  evil  has  not  accepted  admonition, 
through  its  ignorance,  from  the  warning  voice  of  gray 
hairs  and  decrepitude ; 

14.  Neither  has  it  made  ready,  out  of  good  actions, 
a  feast  for  the  guest  that  has  settled  tenaciously  on  my 
head  unabashed. 

15.  Had  I  known  that  I  should  not  treat  it  with 
respect,  I  would  have  concealed  with  woad  a  secret 
that  became  revealed  to  me. 

16.  Who  is  for  me  in  checking  perversity  in  its 
erratic  movements,  as  the  perversity  of  horses  is 
checked  with  bits? 

17.  Propose  not,  therefore,  to  crush  its  inclination 
in  its  acts  of  rebellion ;  for  food  invigorates  desire  in 
the  insatiate* 


EL'BUSIRPS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.       335 

18.  The  Flesh  is  like  a  child :  if  thou  leavest  him 
alone,  he  grows  up  with  a  love  for  suckling;  and  if 
thou  weanest  him,  he  is  weaned. 

19.  Turn,  then,  away  its  desire ;  and  take  heed  lest 
thou  make  it  thy  master:  for  whomsoever  desire 
masters,  it  kills,  or  binds  fast 

20.  And  watch  thou  over  it,  while  it  grazes  in  the 
[field  of]  actions.  Then,  if  it  find  the  pasturage  sweet 
to  its  taste,  leave  it  not  to  pasture. 

21.  How  often  hath  it  made  a  lethal  thing  appear 
pleasant  of  taste  unto  a  man,  while  he  knew  not  that 
poison  was  in  the  gravy ! 

22.  And  beware  of  artifices  devised  by  hunger  and 
satiety.  For  many  an  emptiness  of  stomach  is  more 
detrimental  than  indigestion. 

23.  And  dash  out  the  tears  from  thine  eye  that  has 
filled  from  [a  desire  for]  forbidden  things;  and  strictly 
observe  the  diet  of  penitence. 

24.  And  withstand  thou  the  Flesh  and  the  Devil, 
and  rebel  against  them.  Even  when  they  offer  thee 
sincere  advice,  doubt  it 

25.  And  be  not  thou  obedient  to  them,  either  as 
adversary  or  arbiter ;  for  thou  art  aware  of  the  devices 
of  the  adversary  and  of  the  arbiter. 

26.  I  ask  forgiveness  of  God  for  my  spoken 
words  unaccompanied  by  deeds ;  for  therewith  have 
I  accused  a  spouse  of  barren  wives  of  having 
posterity. 


326       EL'BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 

27.  I  have  commanded  thee  [to  do]  good ;  but  I 
have  not  [myself]  conformed  thereto.  I  have  not 
been  upright ; — what,  then,  is  my  word  to  thee :  Be 
upright? 

28.  I  have  not  provisioned  myself,  before  death, 
with  a  [store  of]  supererogatory  good  works ;  I  have 
not  worshipped,  save  as  is  incumbent;  nor  have  I 
fasted  [otherwise]. 

29.  I  have  swerved  from  the  practice  of  him  who 
made  the  darkness  [of  night]  alive  [with  his  devotions], 
until  his  two  feet  complained  of  injury  from  tume- 
faction ; 

30.  And  bound  up  his  entrails  from  hunger,  and 
girded  beneath  stones  a  tender-skinned  hypochondriac 
region ; 

31.  Whom  the  towering  mountains  sought  to  endce 
from  his  self-possession  by  talking  about  gold ;  but  to 
which  he  exhibited  a  surprising  loftiness ; 

32.  Whose  necessity  confirmed  his  disinclination 
towards  them ;  for,  verily,  necessity  doth  not  invade 
continences. 

33.  Then,  how  could  his  necessity  invite  to  [the 
things  of]  the  world,  him,  without  whom  the  world 
would  not  have  come  forth  from  naught  ? — 

34.  Muhammad,  the  Prince  of  the  two  imiverses 
[material  and  spiritual],  of  the  two  ponderable  classes 
[men  and  demons],  and  of  the  two  sections  [of  man- 
kind], of  the  Arabians  and  of  the  Non-Arabians  \ 


EL'BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.       327 

35.  Our  Annunciator,  who  commands  and  who 
prohibits ;  than  whom  no  one  is  more  righteous  in  the 
word  *'  No  ! "  or  in  [the  word]  •'  Yea  ! " 

36.  Who  is  also  the  "Beloved  One  [of  God];" 
whose  intercession  is  hoped  for  in  every  terror,  of  the 
terrors  that  beset ; 

37.  Who  called  [men  and  demons]  to  [obedience 
to]  God ;  so  that  they  who  lay  hold  on  him  have  hold 
of  a  cable  that  will  not  break  ; 

38.  Who  surpassed  [all]  the  prophets  in  manly  form 
and  in  moral  qualities  ;  whom  they  do  not  approach  in 
knowledge  or  in  generosity  ; 

39.  All  of  them  supplicate  the  **  Apostle  of  God " 
for  a  handful  of  [his]  sea  [of  knowledge],  or  for  a  sip 
of  [his]  steady  rain  [of  exposition] ; 

40.  Compared  with  whom,  they,  in  their  degree,  are 
cognisant  of  a  [mere]  dot  of  the  [divine]  knowledge, 
or  a  [bare]  suspicion  of  [God's]  wisdoms ; 

41.  Whose  outward  form  and  inner  significance  the 
Creator  of  the  soul  perfected,  and  whom  He  then 
selected  [as  His]  "  Beloved  One ;" 

42.  Who  is  unassociated  with  any  partner  in  his 
beauties;  in  whom  the  essence  of  loveliness  is 
undivided. 

43.  Put  aside  that  which  the  Nazarenes  have  laid 
claim  to  for  their  prophet ;  pronounce  what  thou  wilt 
in  his  praise,  and  decide  ; 


328       EL'BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 

44.  Attribute  to  his  personality  what  thou  wilt  of 
nobility;  and  ascribe  to  his  worth  what  thou  wilt 
of  vastness ; 

45.  For  verily  the  superiority  of  the  Apostle  of  God 
hath  no  limit,  that  a  speaker  can  clearly  enunciate 
with  his  mouth  concerning  it. 

46.  If  his  miracles  had  equalled  his  worth,  his  [very] 
name,  when  called  upon,  would  have  brought  back  to 
life  mouldering  bones  fallen  to  pieces. 

47.  But,  out  of  anxious  solicitude  towards  us,  he 
hath  not  tried  us  with  anything  at  which  men's 
reasons  break  down;  we  therefore  doubt  not,  nor 
vainly  surmise. 

48.  The  comprehension  of  his  spiritual  mystery 
outwearies  the  human  race ;  thou  wilt,  therefore,  not 
see,  far  or  near,  any  not  out  of  breath  [thereat] ; — 

49.  Even  as  the  sun  at  a  distance  appears  small 
to  our  eyes,  but  fatigues  the  sight  with  over-closeness. 

50.  And  how  should  a  sleeping  people  comprehend 
his  reality  in  this  lower  world?  They  console  them- 
selves with  dreams  in  lieu  thereof. 

51.  The  utmost  scope  of  [their]  knowledge  con- 
cerning him  [is],  that  he  was  a  man,  and  that  he  is 
the  best  of  God's  creatures — of  the  whole  of  them. 

52.  And  all  the  signs  that  the  noble  apostles 
wrought  [in  former  days]  pertained  unto  them  merely 
through  his  glory. 


EL'BUSIRPS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE,       329 

53.  For  verily  he  is  the  sun  of  superiority,  of  which 
they  are  the  stars.  They  exhibit  their  lights  to  the 
people  in  the  darknesses  [but  the  sun  is  visible  by 
day], 

54.  How  noble  was  the  manly  form  of  the  PropHet; 
whom  moral  qualities  adorned;  whom  beauty  en- 
veloped ;  and  whom  beauty  of  features  distinguished  I 

55.  Like  the  flowers  in  softness,  and  the  full  moon 
in  splendour,  and  the  sea  in  liberality,  and  time  in 
endeavours ! 

56.  Through  his  majesty,  when  thou  meetest  him, 
in  an  army,  or  in  a  body  of  attendants,  it  is  as  though 
he  were  a  solitary  individual  1 — 

57.  As  though  the  pearl  enclosed  in  the  shell  were 
[composed]  of  the  two  ores — speech  from  him,  and 
smiling  I 

58.  There  is  no  perfume  to  equal  the  earth  that 
has  enclosed  his  bones  \ — blessed  is  he  that  sniffs 
therefrom,  and  he  who  kisses  [it] ! 

59.  His  birth  made  manifest  the  sweet-smelling 
goodness  of  his  substance.  How  fragrant  was  the 
commencement  thereof,  and  the  conclusion  I 

60.  [It  was]  a  day  in  which  the  Persians  sagaciously 
opined  that  they  were  warned  of  the  happening  of  evil 
and  of  vengeance ; 

61.  And  the  pavilion  of  the  Chosroes  became, 
being  fissured,  like  unto  the  courtiers  of  the  Chosroes, 
irremediably  disarrayed ; 


330       EL'BUSIRI'S  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 


62.  And  the  [Sacred]  Fire,  through  sorrowfulness 
thereat,  became  extinct  in  its  respirations  [of  flame], 
and  the  river  [of  the  Tigris]  dry  at  fount,  through 
choking ; 

63.  And  it  afflicted  [the  town  of]  Sawa  that  its  lake 
should  sink  into  the  earth,  and  that  the  comer 
thereto  for  water  should  be  angrily  repelled  when  he 
thirsted ; — 

64.  As  though  in  the  Fire  [there  was],  through 
sadness,  the  wetness  that  is  in  water ;  and  in  the 
water,  the  [heart-]  burning  that  is  in  fire ; — 

65.  Then  the  genii  make  their  voices  heard ;  and  the 
meteors  are  flashing,  and  the  truth  becomes  manifest 
in  sense  and  in  words ; 

66.  [But  men]  were  blind  and  deaf;  so  the  pro- 
clamation of  the  good  news  was  not  heard  ;  nor  were 
the  flaming  admonitions  heeded ; 

67.  Although  their  soothsayers  had  informed  the 
peoples  that  their  crooked  religions  would  not  stand ; 

68.  And  though  they  had  seen  in  the  horizon  blazing 
stars  fallen,  in  like  manner  with  what  [took  place]  on 
earth  with  idols ; 

69.  Until  it  happened,  by  means  of  revelation,  that 
one  discomfited  individual  of  the  demons  followed  the 
footmarks  of  [another]  discomfited  one ; 

70.  As  though  they  were,  in  [their]  flight,  the 
cowards  of  Abraha,  or  the  army  lapidated  with 
pebbles  from  his  [Muhammad's]  two  hands. 


EL-BUSIRPS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE,       331 

71.  In  a  throw,  after  a  recitation  of  doxology  within 
their  two  palms;  even  as  the  casting  forth  of  the 
doxologist  [Jonah]  from  the  entrails  of  the  swallowing 
fish; 

72.  At  his  [Muhammad's]  call  the  trees  came  pro- 
strating themselves,  walking  towards  him  on  legs 
[trunks]  without  feet ; 

73.  As  though  they  were  tracing  lines  for  what  their 
branches  wrote,  of  a  beautiful  handwriting,  in  the  main 
track  of  the  path : 

74.  Like  the  cloud,  which  followed  wherever  he 
went,  shielding  him  from  the  oven-like  heat  of  noon- 
tide waxed  sultry. 

75.  I  swear  by  the  cloven  moon, — verily,  it  hath  a 
relation,  through  his  heart,  which  makes  an  oath 
thereby  sacred  to  fulfil, — 

76.  And  by  what  the  Cave  enclosed  of  good  and 
generous,  while  all  the  eyes  of  the  misbelievers  were 
blind  thereto, 

77.  And  **  Honesty,'*  in  the  Cave, and  the  "Vouch- 
ing Friend"  [Abu-Bekr],  budged  not,  while  they  [their 
pursuers]  were  saying :  **  No  soul  is  in  the  Cave  : " — 

78.  They  imagined  that  the  Dove  would  not  circle, 
and  they  supposed  that  the  Spider  would  not  weave, 
around  the  "  Best  of  Mortals ; " 

79.  The  protection  of  God  rendered  [them]  in- 
dependent of  twofold  coats  of  mail,  and  of  high 
towers. 


332       EL-BUSIRPS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 

80.  Time  has  not  offered  me  an  injury  [against 
which]  I  have  had  recourse  for  protection  unto  him 
[Muhammad],  but  I  received  a  protection  from 
him  that  is  not  to  be  infringed; 

81.  And  I  have  not  craved  from  his  hand  the 
riches  of  this  world,  or  the  next,  but  that  I  received 
a  bounty  from  the  best  of  [bestowing  hands]  respect- 
fully kissed  [as  their  bounty  is  accepted]. 

82.  Deny  thou  not  the  revelation  from  his  vision. 
Verily  he  had  a  heart  that  did  not  sleep  when  the  two 
eyes  slept ; 

83.  For  this  [happened]  in  the  time  of  the  fulness 
of  the  prophetship ;  therefore  the  state  of  the  dreamer 
is  not  denied  regarding  him. 

84.  God  be  sanctified !  No  revelation  can  be 
acquired  by  effort ;  and  no  prophet  is  suspected 
without  his  privity. 

85.  How  many  hath  his  [Muhammad's]  hand  cured 
by  the  touch  who  were  diseased;  and  hath  skilfully 
set  free  from  the  halter  of  insanity ! 

86.  And  his  prayer  hath  made  the  year  of  drought 
to  be  alive — so  that  it  hath  been  told  of  as  a  chief 
[year]  among  the  times  of  rich  vegetation — 

87.  By  a  cloud-bank  that  rained  copiously,  so  that 
thou  wouldst  thence  have  imagined  the  pebbly 
torrent-channels  were  dikes  cut  from  the  ocean, 
or  an  inundation  from  a  mountain-reservoir  broken 
loose ! 


EL'BUSIRPS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.       333 

88.  Let  me  alone,  and  my  description  of  some  of 
his  miracles,  which  were  as  manifest  as  is  the  con- 
spicuousness  of  the  hospitality-fire  by  night  on  the 
mountain-top ; — 

89.  For  pearls  increase  in  beauty  when  they  are 
in  r^ular  strings,  while  they  lose  no  value  when 
unstrung ; — 

90.  And  what  [signifies]  the  aspiringness  of  the 
yearnings  of  the  panegyrist  toward  that  which  is  in 
him  [Muhammad]  of  noble  qualities  and  habits  ? 

91.  [And  that  volume  of]  Miracles  of  the  Truth, 
brought  into  new  existence  by  the  All-Merciful,  though 
[itself]  an  attribute  of  Him  who  is  qualified  with 
eternity,  and  [itself  also]  eternal ; 

92.  It  is  not  in  conjunction  with  any  one  time 
[alone];  but  it  reminds  us  of  the  Resurrection,  and 
of  .[the  people  of]  'Ad,  and  of  [the  garden  of]  Iiam ; 

93.  It  remains  perpetual  with  us ;  therefore  it  hath 
surpassed  every  miracle  of  the  prophets  [of  old],  since 
they  came  forth  and  endured  not ; 

94.  [Its  miracles,  i,e,y  verses,  are]  self-evident, 
so  that  they  remain  not  matters  of  doubt  to  the 
caviller,  neither  do  they  excite  a  desire  for  [another] 
arbiter ; 

95.  It  has  never  been  contested,  but  that  the  most 
aggressive  of  its  attackers  has  returned  to  it  proposing 
peace; 


334       EL-BUSinrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 

96.  Its  eloquence  repels  the  pretensions  of  its 
disputer,  with  the  repulsion  of  the  jealous  one  [who 
repels]  the  hand  of  the  criminal  from  the  things  held 
sacred  [to  virtue] ; 

97.  Its  miracles  [verses]  have  significations  like  the 
waves  of  the  ocean  at  full  tide,  and  above  the  pearls 
thereof  in  beauty  and  in  values  ; 

98.  Its  wonders  are  not  to  be  told  or  counted, 
neither  does  it  verge,  through  over-abundance,  on 
tediousness ; 

99.  The  eye  of  its  reader  is  made  to  sparkle  ;  there- 
fore have  I  said  to  him  [the  reader] :  "  Thou  hast 
found  the  stay  [cable]  of  God ;  keep  fast  hold  [thereon] ; 

100.  "If  thou  recite  it  out  of  fear  of  the  heat  of 
the  fire  of  hell's  lowest  pit,  thou  hast  extinguished  the 
heat  of  the  pit  with  its  refreshing  recitation." 

loi.  It  is,  as  it  were,  the  Tank,  at  which  the 
faces  of  transgressors  become  whitened,  who  have 
approached  it  black  as  charcoal ; 

102.  And  as  the  [strait]  Path  and  the  Balance,  in 
equity;  for  justice,  by  any  other  than  it,  is  not 
established  among  the  people. 

103.  Wonder  thou  not  at  envious  ones  who  deny 
it  through  ignorance,  whereas  it  is  [as]  the  [very] 
eye  [-sight]  of  the  perspicacious  and  intelligent : — 

104.  The  eye,  through  ophthalmia,  has,  ere  now, 
denied  the  light  of  the  sun ;  and  the  mouth,  through 
disease,  has  denied  the  taste  of  water. 


EL-BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.       335 

105.  O  [Muhammad]  thou  Best  of  those  whose 
court  the  guests  seek,  trudging  on  foot,  or  [seated] 
upon  tlie  loins  of  easy-paced  she-camels  ; 

106.  And  who  art  the  greatest  sign  for  one  who 
takes  admonition ;  and  who  art  the  greatest  blessing 
to  him  who  avails  [thereof]  ! 

107.  Thou  travelledst  by  night  from  one  sacred  site 
to  [another]  sacred  site,  as  the  full  moon  journeys  in 
the  deepest  of  darkness  ; 

108.  And  thou  continuedst  to  mount,  until  thou 
reachedst  the  stage  of  Two  Bow-shots,  not  reached  [by 
another],  and  not  attempted ; 

109.  And  all  the  prophets  and  messengers  gave 
thee  the  precedency — the  precedency  of  the  served 
one  over  the  servants ; 

no.  And  thou  traversedst  with  them  the  seven 
strata  [of  the  heavens]  in  a  procession,  in  which  thou 
wast  the  standard-bearer ; 

111.  Until  thou  leftedst  not  a  further  limit  for  any 
to  go  beyond  thee  in  propinquity  [to  God's  throne], 
nor  a  stair  of  ascent  for  any  one  mounting ; 

1 1 2.  Thou  debasedst  every  degree  by  comparison, 
when  thou  wast  invited  to  go  up  higher,  like  the  sole 
distinguished  guest ; 

113.  That  thou  mightest  have  an  interview  with 
One  curtained  in  how  special  a  manner  from  the 
eyes  [of  mankind]  and  [the  communication  of]  a 
secret  concealed  in*  how  profound  a  degree ; 


336       EL'BUSIRVS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE, 

114.  Thou  gainedst  every  subject  of  [legidmate] 
boasting,  without  a  co-participator;  and  thou  passedst 
through  every  stage  [of  progress]  free  from  the  throng; 

115.  And  illustrious  was  the  worth  of  the  grades 
thou  acquiredst;  difficult  is  the  comprehension  of 
the  favours  thou  receivedst ! 

116.  Glad  tidings  imto  us,  the  host  of  Islam! 
For  verily  we  have,  through  [God's]  grace,  a  comer 
pilaster  underoolishable ! 

117.  Inasmuch  as  God  has  named  him  [Muhammad] 
''  the  Most  Noble  of  the  Apostles,"  who  called  us  to 
obedience  unto  Him  [God],  we  are  the  noblest  of 
peoples. 

118.  The  tidings  of  his  mission  scared  the  hearts 
of  the  enemies,  as  a  cry  that  puts  to  flight  an  unminded 
flock  of  sheep  and  goats ; 

119.  Neither  did  he  cease  to  meet  them  on  every 
battle-field,  imtil,  through  his  lances,  they  put  [men] 
in  mind  of  flesh  on  a  tray ; 

1 30.  They  preferred  flight;  and  therein  they  had 
well-nigh  envied  the  [torn]  limbs  rising  [into  the  air] 
with  the  eagles  and  the  vultures  ; 

121.  The  nights  went  by,  and  they  knew  not 
the  coimt  thereof,  when  these  were  not  nights  of  the 
months  when  warfare  is  unlawful. 

123.  As  though  the  religion  [of  Islam]  were  a  guest 
that  had  alighted  in  their  court  with  all  noble  brood 
camels,  eager  to  devour  the  flesh  of  his  enemies. 


EL-BUSIRPS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE,       337 

133.  Who  led  a  flood  of  an  army  [mounted]  upon 
fleet  horses,  that  threw  up  dashing  waves  of  brave 
warriors, 

124.  [Composed]  of  all  ready  answerers  to  his  call, 
confiding  in  God,  and  attacking  with  an  escterminating 
weapon — extirpator  of  blasphemy  ; 

125.  Until,  through  them,  the  religious  community 
of  Islam,  after  its  exile,  became  united  to  its  blood- 
kindred  ; 

126.  For  ever  guaranteed,  through  them,  with  the 
best  of  fathers,  and  the  best  of  husbands ;  so  that  it 
shall  not  become  an  orphan,  nor  a  widow.  ' 

127.  They  were  [immovable  as]  moimtains.  Ask, 
then,  concerning  them,  of  him  who  encountered  with 
them  :  what  was  it  he  experienced  from  them  in  every 
place  of  encounter  ? 

128.  And  ask  Hunayn,  and  ask  Badr,  and  ask 
'Uhud :  seasons  of  death  more  dire  to  them  than 
the  pest ! 

129.  They  sent  forth  the  bright  swords  red,  after 
these  had  reached  every  black  hanging  ear-curl  of  the 
hair  of  their  enemies  ; 

130.  And  they  wrote  with  brown  lances  of  Khatt, 
whose  pens  did  not  leave  one  body  of  a  letter 
unpunctuated ; 

131.  Whose  weapons  are  keen ;  who  have  a  mark 
that  distinguishes  them ;  for  the  rose  is  distinguished 
from  the  acacia  by  its  mark. 


338       EL'BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 

132.  The  winds  of  victory  guide  unto  thee  their 
odour;  so  that  thou  deemest  each  armour-dad 
warrior  a  flower  in  its  calyx. 

133.  They  are,  on  the  backs  of  their  steeds,  as 
it  were,  trees  on  hills,  by  reason  of  the  firmness 
of  courage,  not  through  stringency  of  girths. 

134.  The  hearts  of  the  enemies  sank  with  dismay  at 
their  onset;  so  that  thou  couldst  not  distinguish 
whether  they  were  a  flock  of  lambs  or  an  army  of 
warriors. 

135.  For  whoso  hath  his  stay  in  the  Apostle  of  God, 
if  lions  meet  him  in  their  thickets,  they  are  struck 
mute  and  motionless. 

136.  Thou  wilt  never  see  one  of  his  friends  unsuc- 
coured  by  him,  nor  one  enemy  imbroken  ! 

137.  He  hath  caused  his  people  to  camp  in  the 
protection  of  his  religion,  even  as  the  lion  lays  him 
down  with  his  whelps  in  the  thickets  ! 

138.  How  many  disputants  concerning  him  have 
the  words  of  God  confounded ;  and  how  many  adver- 
saries has  the  Demonstration  overcome  in  argument ! 

139.  Let  science  in  the  "  Illiterate  One,"  in  a  time  of 
universal  ignorance  [of  God],  and  education  in  the 
**  Orphan,"  suffice  thee  as  a  miracle ! 

140.  I  have  given  him  my  service  in  a  panegyric,  by 
which  I  seek  pardon  for  the  sins  of  a  lifetime  passed  in 
poetry  and  services, 


EL'BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.       339 

141.  Which  have  placed  on  my  neck  that  of  which 
the  results  are  to  be  feared ;  as  though  I  were,  through 
them,  a  victim  from  among  cattle. 

142.  In  both  those  occupations  I  have  obeyed  the 
seductions  of  youth;  and  I  have  earned  nothing,  save 
through  sins  and  regret 

143.  O  what  loss  to  a  soul,  in  its  traffic,  that  has  not 
purchased  religion  with  the  world  [as  its  price],  and 
has  not  made  a  bid  [for  future  happiness] ! 

144.  And  whoso  selleth  his  future  for  the  present, 
there  becomes  manifest  for  him  a  being  cheated 
in  the  sale,  and  in  the  prepayment ! 

145.  If  I  have  committed  a  sin,  my  compact  is  not 
broken  away  from  the  Prophet,  nor  my  cable  simdered; 

146.  For  verily  I  hold  a  safeguard  from  him  through 
my  being  named  Muhammad;  and  he  is  the  most 
true  of  men  to  his  bond. 

T47.  If,  in  my  resurrection,  there  be  not  one  to  take 
me  by  the  hand  out  of  goodness,  then,  otherwise,  say 
thou  [of  me] :    "  Alas,  the  footslip  1 " 

148.  Be  it  not  imagined  of  him  that  he  will  frustrate 
of  his  generosities  the  expectant  one,  or  that  the 
refugee  will  return  from  him  other  than  treated  with 
honour. 

149.  And  ever  since  I  have  devoted  my  thoughts  to 
his  praiseworthy  qualities,  I  have  found  him  the  best 
of  sureties  for  my  salvation. 


340       EL-BUSIRrS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE. 

1 50.  Wealth  from  him  will  never  fail  a  hand  pinched 
with  poverty:  verily  the  rain  maketh  the  flowers  to 
grow  on  the  hills ! 

151.  And  I  have  not  desired  the  glory  of  the  world, 
which  the  hands  of  Zuhayr  [the  poet]  grasped  through 
what  he  sang  in  praise  of  Harim. 

152.  O  thou  most  noble  of  the  creation !  I  have  not 
any  one  [beside  thee]  to  whom  to  betake  me,  on  the 
occurrence  of  the  universal  event  [of  death  and  resur- 
rection]. 

153.  And  thy  dignity,  O  Apostle  of  God !  will  not 
be  narrowed  through  me  when  the  All-Generous  God 
shall  manifest  Himself  in  His  name  of  an  Avenger. 

154.  For  the  world  and  its  fellow  [future  life]  exist 
out  of  thy  bounty ;  and  out  of  thy  science  exists  the 
science  of  the  Tablet  and  of  the  Pen  ! 

155.  O  Flesh  !  despair  thou  not  by  reason  of  a 
footslip  that  was  great:  verily  deadly  sins,  in  the 
divine  forgiveness,  are  as  venial  offences. 

156.  Maybe  that  the  grace  of  my  Lord,  when  He 
shall  share  it  out,  will  come,  in  the  shares,  in  proportion 
to  the  transgressions. 

157.  O  my  Lord  [God],  let  not  my  hope  be 
reversed  in  Thy  counsel;  and  judge  Thou  not  my 
reckoning  deficient! 

158.  And  deal  Thou  graciously  with  Thy  servant : 
verily  he  hath  a  fortitude,  which,  when  terrors  call  for 
it,  is  put  to  flight 


EL-BUSIRVS  POEM  OF  THE  MANTLE.       341 

159.  And  grant  Thou  that  showers  of  benedictions 
from  Thee  [may  be]  perpetual  upon  the  Prophet, 
copious  and  continuous ; 

160.  And  upon  the  family  and  the  companions;  then 
upon  the  successors  of  these,  the  men  of  piety,  and 
virtue,  and  forbearance,  and  generosity; 

I 

161.  While  the  breath  of  the  zephyr  waves  the 
branches  of  the  moringa,  and  the  camel-leader  enlivens 
the  camels  with  chants. 


APPENDIX. 


Wh^n  the  Arabians  became  the  only  learned  feopUy 
and  their  empire  extended  over  the  greater  part  of  the 
known  world,  they  impressed  their  own  genitis  on  those 
nations  with  whom  they  were  allied  as  friends,  or 
reverenced  as  masters, — Isaac  D'Israeli :  Curiosities  of 
Literature. 


APPENDIX 


EXTRACTS   FROM 


THE    LAY   OF    THE    HIMYARITES, 


BY  THE 


Kadhi  Neshwan  Ibn  Sa'id,  El-Himyary. 


TRANSLATED  AND  EDITED 


By  Major  W.   F.   Prideaux,   f.r.g.s.,  &c. 


["Ptolemy  mentions  the  Homerites  as  a  nation  seated  in 
the  southern  parts  of  Arabia  Felix,  and  bounded  on  the 
east  by  the  Adramitse,  or  province  of  Hadramaut.  His 
Arabiae  Emporium  he  likewise  places  in  their  country,  as 
Pliny  does  his  Massala.  Some  authors  make  them  the  same 
people  with  the  Sabseans,  whilst  others  consider  them  in  a 
different  light.  For  our  part,  we  look  upon  Sabsei  and  Hom> 
eritae  to  have  been  different  names  of  the  same  nation,  and  are 
countenanced  herein  by  the  Oriental  historians.  For  these 
inform  us  that  the  Sabseans  were  called  Hamyarites  from 
Hamyar  the  son  of  their  great  ancestor  Saba ;  and  that  they 
ruled  over  almost  the  whole  country  of  Yaman.  Though  the 
kingdom  of  the   Hamyarites,   or   Homerites,   was  at    length 


34^  APPENDIX. 


translated  from  the  princes  of  Hamyar  to  the  descendants  of 
Cahlan  his  brother,  yet  they  all  retained  the  title  of  King 
of  Ham3rar.  .  .  .  They  made  a  great  figure  amongst  the  ancient 
Arabs  before  the  time  of  Mohammed." — Ancient  Universal 
History^  vol.  xviii.  p,  352. 


Major  W.  F.  Prideaux  has  employed  some  of  the  few 
leisure  hours  afforded  by  his  official  duties  at  Sehore,  Central 
India,  in  rendering  into  English  the  excellent  didactic  Poem, 
the  "Lay  of  the  Himyarites," composed  in  the  I2th  century  A.D., 
by  Neshwftn  ibn  Satd.  His  work — ^printed,  for  private  cir- 
culation, at  the  School  Press  of  Sehore,  in  1879,  and  the 
impression  limited  to  25  copies — ^presents  the  original  text 
together  with  the  prose  translation;  also  Notes,  giving  the 
more  important  variants  found  in  the  texts  previously  pub- 
lished, and  collated  with  the  Miles  and  Rich  MSS.  in  the 
British  Museum;  to  which  is  added  a  series  of  genealogical 
tables,  '*  designed  to  exhibit,  at  one  comprehensive  glance,  the 
various  degrees  of  relationship  in  which  the  chiefs  and  heroes 
who  are  commemorated  in  the  Poem  stood  to  one  another." 

The  '*  Lay  of  the  Himyarites  "  is  chiefly  valuable,  as  Miyor 
Prideaux  remarks,  for  the  light  it  throws  upon  the  ancient 
history  of  that  nation.  The  opening  and  closing  verses,  which 
are  here  reproduced,  with  the  translator's  kind  permission, 
will  perhaps  enable  the  general  reader  to  form  a  tolerably  clear 
notion  of  the  design  and  character  of  this  fine  Poem,  written 
by  a  learned  and  pious  descendant  of  the  renowned  princes  of 
Himyar.— Ed.] 


From  the  Translator's  Preface. 

Beyond  his  pedigree,  we  know  but  little  of  Neshwfin  ibn 
Sa'fd.  He  tells  us  himself  in  his  great  work,  the  Skems  d-  IMm^ 
that  his  mother,   like  his  father,  was  of   noble   Himyaritic 


LA  Y  OF  THE  HIMYARITES,  347 

descent,  and  that  his  residence  was  at  Hi^th,  a  little  village 
in  the  district  of  HamdSn.  Here  we  may  imagine  him  to  have 
lived  and  worked  until  his  death,  which  took  place  in  A.H.  573 
[A.D.  1177]-  The  knowledge  which  is  so  copiously  displayed  in 
his  works  was  probably  derived,  not  only  from  the  writings  of 
more  ancient  authors,  such  as  Wahb  ibn  Munebbih  and  'Ubaid 
ibn  Shariyah,  but  from  the  oral  traditions  of  the  peasantry. 
His  principal  work,  the  Shems  el-UlUm^  is  in  lexicogra- 
phical form,  and,  according  to  Dr.  D.  H.  Miiller,  is  of  the 
highest  value  from  a  historical  and  geographical  point  of 
view.  A  manuscript  of  this  book  is  in  the  Royal  Library  at 
Berlin,  and  it  is  much  to  be  wished  that  Dr.  Miiller,  who  has 
already  turned  its  contents  to  considerable  use,  should  complete 
his  task  by  giving  to  the  world  the  work  in  its  entirety.  Nesh- 
w^  ibn  Sa'id  was  also  the  author  of  several  other  works,  chiefly, 
it  would  appear  from  their  titles,  of  an  exegetical  nature,  and 
of  a  few  scattered  poetical  pieces,  which  the  searcher  amongst 
Arabic  manuscripts  may  here  and  there  light  upon. 

The  work,  however,  which  has  been  chiefly  associated  with 
his  name  is  the  Lay  of  the  Himyarites.  The  motif  of  this  Poem 
is  clearly  ethical :  it  deals  Math  the  most  commonplace  and  yet 
the  newest  of  themes,  the  decay  of  glory,  the  vanity  of  human 
power.  Not  less  vain  perhaps  are  the  efforts  of  poet  or  moralist  to 
persuade  man  that  he  is  but  a  sharer  In  the  common  lot,  and  that 
he,  even  he,  like  every  one  else,  "  cometh  in  with  vanity,  and 
departeth  in  darkness,  and  his  name  shall  be  covered  with  dark- 
ness ;"  for  that  which  strikes  him  as  only  natural  in  the  case  of 
the  rest  of  the  world,  appears  something  strange  and  novel  when 
his  own  turn  comes  to  endure  it.  The  Poet  of  Himyar  takes  as 
his  text  the  faUen  fortunes  of  his  own  illustrious  race.  *'  Where," 
asks  he,  ''are  the  kings  and  nobles  of  Himyar  ?  They  have  been 
ground  down  as  the  kernel  of  the  date  beneath  the  millstone : 
they  have  become  as  dust  in  the  earth  !  " 

But  reflections  which  are  merely  the  echo  of  the  voice  of  the 
Preacher  may  be  thought  too  trite  to  merit  much  attention. 
This  is  true;  the  writer's  claims  to  a  hearing  rest  on  other 


348  APPENDIX. 


grounds.  The  Poem  is  a  terse  epitome  of  the  ancient  history 
of  £1 -Yemen  :  if  it  does  little  more  than  record  the  names  of 
kings  and  princes,  still  these  names  are  rarely  to  be  found  else- 
where, and,  when  read  with  the  Commentary  and  with  the 
Shems  el-UlUm  of  the  same  author,  the  work  affords  valuable 
testimony  in  support  of  the  theory  that  the  interminable  gene- 
alogies which  we  find  scattered  throughout  the  works  of  the 
early  Arab  writers  are  not  the  mere  figments  of  their  imagination, 
but  are  actually  founded  upon  evidence  which  is  more  or  less 
of  a  historical  character. 


OPENING   VERSES   OF  THE   POEM. 

THE  purpose  of  God  is  a  serious  matter,  and  not  a  subject 
for  jesting ;  employ  thyself,  therefore,  my  comrade,  in 
religious  works. 

2.  How  is  stability  possible  with  diversities  of  temperaments, 
and  the  everlasting  recurrence  of  night  and  morning ! 

3.  Time  is  the  best  of  counsellors  to  admonish  a  young  man ; 
and  its  advice  surpasses  that  of  the  most  friendly  monitors. 

4.  Direct  thine  eyes  to  what  is  certain ;  and  inquire  not,  oh 
thou  dnmken  one,  from  him  who  is  recovering  from  intoxication. 

5.  The  world  runs  away  with  us  towards  peril,  like  as  the  boat 
of  the  seaman  hastens  to  it ; 

6.  It  runs  away  with  us  into  a  sea  of  waters,  in  which  there  is 
neither  shore  nor  shallows. 

7.  The  occupations  of  mankind  divert  them  from  the  worship 
of  their  Lord  ;  the  seductions  of  their  world  and  its  contentions, 

8.  And  the  love  of  the  world  which  enters  ever  with  the  souls 
into  bodies. 

9.  All  mankind  are  drinkers  of  the  cup  of  Death ;  by  natural 
means  or  by  bloodshed. 

10.  Do  not  despair  at  evil  accidents,  and  be  not  too  joyful 
over  happy  events. 


LAY  OF  THE  HIMYARITES,  349 


11.  Where  is  H{^d,  the  man  who  feared  GoD,  and  his  testa- 
mentary injunctions  ?  or  Kaht^n,  of  the  seed  of  the  Prophet  and 
of  holiness  ? 

12.  Where  is  Ya'rub,  who  was  the  first  to  speak  Arabic,  and 
who  introduced  articulate  language  among  man  ? 

13.  Where  is  Yashjub,  whom  his  fate  betrayed ;  and  for 
whom  sorrow  was  ordained  by  the  decree  of  destiny  ? 

14.  And  Sab^,  the  son  of  Yashjub,  who  in  foray  was  the  first 
to  lead  into  captivity  the  women  who  wore  girdles  ? 

15.  Or  Hiniyar  and  his  brother  Kahldn,  who  perished  through 
the  accidents  of  all-destroying  Time  ? 

16.  And  the  Kings  of  Himyar? — a  thousand  king;5  have 
betaken  themselves  to  the  dust,  to  rest  in  graves  beneath  slabs 
of  stones. 

17.  Their  monuments  in  the  land  give  us  information  of 
them  :   and  the  books  in  their  stories  record  the  truth. 

18.  Their  generations  are  made  manifest  in  them,  and  their 
renown  is  fragrant  as  the  perfume  of  ambergris. 

19.  They  reigned  over  the  East  and  the  West ;  and  obtained 
possession  of  all  the  country  between  Ankarah  and  Nejd-el-jih. 

20.  Thamiid  and  the  latter  'Ad  reigned  together  ;  from  them 
^proceeded  noble  princes  in  whom  was  no  covetousness. 

21.  Where  is  £1-Humaisa\  and  Aiman  after  him,  and  Zuhoir, 
a  king  brilliant  in  splendour  ? 

22.  In  course  of  time  Thamdd  came  to  destruction  through 
a  she-camel,  and  met  with  great  grief  on  her  account. 

23.  And  *Arib  and  Katan  and  Haid&n  together  ? — They  were 
smitten  as  though  they  were  date-stones  in  the  crusher. 

[Of  the  next  105  verses,  in  which  the  Poet  continues  his  recital, 
begun  as  above,  of  the  names  of  famous  princes  and  heroes 
of  Himyar,  the  five  following,  referring  to  the  visit  of  the 
celebrated  *'  Queen  of  Sheba  "  to  King  Solomon,  are  selected  as 
being  of  general  interest.] 

45.  Where  is  Billds,  the  mighty-throned  one,  or  her  palace, 
lofty  above  all  palaces  ? 


350  APPENDIX, 


46.  She  visited  Solomon  the  prophet  in  Tadmor,  coming  from 
Marib  on  an  errand  of  faith,  without  thoughts  of  marriage, 

47.  With  thousands  upon  thousands  of  the  armed  men  of  her 
people ;  she  did  not  approach  him  with  jaded  camels. 

48.  She  came  to  acknowledge  Islim,  at  the  season  when  his 
writing  came,  with  which  he  invited  her  with  a  loud-voiced 
Hoopoe. 

49.  She  bowed  in  worship  to  her  mighty  Creator,  and  humbly 
became  a  Muslim  ;  ^sA  formerly  her  adoration  was  to  the  Sun. 

[Having  reviewed  the  long  line  of  Himyarite  princes,  who 
were,  each  in  his  day,  "possessed  of  power  for  evil  or  for 
good,"  the  Poet  thus  moralises  in  conclusion.] 

CLOSING  VERSES. 

129.  The  chiefe  of  Himyar,  and  their  kings,  are  buried  in  the 
dust,  to  rest  in  graves  beneath  slabs  of  stones. 

130.  They  have  become  dust,  they  are  trodden  on  like  as  Death 
treads  upon  the  mounds  of  earth  and  the  pebbles  of  the  water- 
course. 

131.  The  world  they  lived  in  submitted  to  them,  then  turned 
away  and  smote  them  with  its  kicking  hoof. 

132.  There  rained  upon  them,  after  the  clouds  of  their  pros* 
perity,  the  clouds  of  misfortune  in  heavy-pouring  showers. 

133.  The  accidents  of  Time  had  no  regard  for  them,  nor 
could  they  defend  themselves  from  them  with  swords  or  lances  ; 

134.  No,  not  with  troops  and  with  palaces ;  nor  with  armies, 
and  fortresses,  and  weapons. 

135.  They  have  their  dwelling  in  the  earth,  after  Hving  in 
castles,  and  delighting  themselves  with  eating  and  drinking,  and 
the  pleasures  of  wedlock. 

136.  Their  castles,  which  were  built  on  supports  of  wide- 
spreading  stone,  have  become  as  smouldering  wood. 

137.  Time  mingles  its  misfortunes  with  its  favours,  and  affects 
its  children  with  misery  in  the  midst  of  joy. 


LA  Y  OF  THE  HIMYARITES,  351 


138.  Praise  be  to  GOD,  whose  beneficence  is  to  be  hoped  for  ! 
may  He  remain  an  object  of  praise  in  the  morning  and  the 
evening  I 

139.  And  may  blessings  be  upon  the  Prophet  and  his  fol- 
lowers, as  long  as  the  winged  pigeon  may  coo  I 


Notes. 

As  Major  Prideanx'  brochure  is  designed  chiefly  for  scholars, 
the  Notes  appended  to  his  translation  treat  only  of  the 
original  text  and  variants :  the  Editor  of  the  present  volume 
ventures  to  offer  explanatory  notes  on  a  few  of  the  verses  given 
above,  which  may  not  be,  otherwise,  very  intelligible  or  inter- 
esting to  some  readers. 


V.  II.  "HOd,  the  man  who  feared  God."  The  prophet 
who,  according  to  the  received  story  of  the  Muslims,  was  sent 
to  warn  the  tribe  of  *Ad  of  the  punishment  in  store  for  them  if 
they  did  not  abandon  their  idolatry,  and  return  to  the  worship 
of  the  true  God.  The  people  of  *Ad  rejected  the  prophet's 
message,  and  were  utterly  destroyed  because  of  their  unbelief. 
(Kur'an,  sur.  vii.)  According  to  some  authors,  a  few  of  the 
'Adites,  being  at  Mecca  praying  for  rain,  escaped  the  fate  of 
their  brethren ;  and  these  survivors  gave  rise  to  a  tribe  called 
"the  latter  'Ad" — mentioned  in  v.  20.  The  Arabs  employ 
the  phrase,  **  as  old  as  King  'Ad  "  to  signify  the  great  antiquity 
of  anything. 

* '  Kahtan,  of  the  seed  of  the  prophet  and  of  holiness. "  Joktan 
the  son  of  Eber,  whom  the  Arabs  call  Kaht^,  had  thirteen 
sons,  one  of  whom,  Sheba,  or  Sab^,  was  the  ancestor  of  the 
Sabaeans,  or  Himyarites. 

V.  12.  Ya'rub,  the  son  of  Kaht&n,  succeeded  his  father  in  the 
kingdom  of  Yemen,  giving  name,  if  we  may  credit  the  Arab 
historians,  both  to  their  country  and  language. 


352  APPENDIX, 


V.  14.  Abd  Shems,  "the  Servant  of  the  Sun,"  snmamed 
Sab^y  the  son  of  Yashab,  the  Arab  historians  tell  us,  was 
successful  in  his  expeditions  against  his  enemies,  carried  off 
great  spoils,  and  took  many  of  them  prisoners.  He  is  said  to 
have  built  the  city  of  Sab^  or  Marib,  as  likewise  the  stupendous 
mound  or  building  which  formed  the  vast  reservoir  above  that 
city.  By  means  of  this  reservoir,  which  received  all  the  water 
that  came  down  from  the  mountains,  the  Kings  of  Yemen  did 
not  only  supply  the  inhabitants  of  Sab^  and  their  lands  with 
water,  but  likewise  kept  the  territories  they  had  subdued  in 
greater  awe ;  since  by  cutting  them  off  from  a  communication 
with  it  they  could  at  any  time  greatly  distress  them. — AnciaU 
Universal  History ^  vol.  xviii.  p.  419.  The  water  [in  this 
reservoir]  rose  to  the  height  of  almost  twenty  fathoms,  and  was 
kept  in  on  every  side  by  a  work  so  solid,  that  many  had  their 
houses  built  upon  it.  But  at  length  CtOD,  being  highly  dis- 
pleased at  their  pride  and  insolence,  and  resolving  to  humble 
and  disperse  them,  sent  a  mighty  flood,  which  broke  down  the 
mound  by  night,  while  the  inhabitants  were  asleep,  and  carried 
away  the  whole  city,  with  the  neighbouring  towns  and 
people.  This  inundation  is  styled  in  the  Koran,  "the  inunda- 
tion of  al-Arem,"  and  occasioned  so  terrible  a  destruction  that 
from  thence  it  became  a  proverbial  sa>'ing,  to  express  a  total 
dispersion,  that  "they  were  gone  and  scattered  like  Sabi," 
No  less  than  eight  tribes  were  forced  to  abandon  their  dwellings 
on  this  occasion,  some  of  which  gave  rise  to  the  kingdoms  of 
Hira  and  Ghassan. — Ibid,,  p.  428. 

V.  15.  Himyar,  the  son  of  Abd  Shems,  or  Sab^  according 
to  Oriental  authors,  was  so  called  from  the  red  clothes  he  wore. 
This  seems  a  plain  indication  that  Himyar  was  only  a  surname. 
He  expelled  the  Thamdd  from  Yemen,  who  took  refuge  in 
liejaz.  From  this  prince  the  tribe  or  kingdom  of  Himyar 
deduced  its  name.  Some  assert  that  Himyar,  not  Kaht^,  was 
the  first  king  of  Yemen  that  wore  a  diadem. — An,  Univ.  Hist,^ 
vol.  xyiii.  p.  419. 

V.  22.     "  ThamM  came  to  destruction  through  a  she-camel.'* 


LA  Y  OF  THE  HIMYARITES.  353 


As  the  prophet  HCtd  (see  note  on  verse  ii)  had  been  sent  to  warn 
the  tribe  of  'Ad  of  their  wickedness,  so  the  prophet  Salih  was 
sent  with  a  similar  message  to  the  people  of  Thamiid.  (Kur'an, 
sur.  viL)  "The  ThamAdites,"  says  Sale,  "insisting  on  a 
miracle,-  proposed  to  Silih  that  he  should  go  with  them  to  their 
festival,  and  that  they  should  call  on  their  gods,  and  he  on  his, 
promising  to  follow  that  deity  which  should  answer.  But  after 
they  had  called  on  their  idols  a  long  time  to  no  purpose,  Jonda 
Ebn  Amru,  their  prince,  pointed  to  a  rock  standing  by  itself, 
and  bade  S^lih  cause  a  she-camel  big  with  young  to  come  forth 
from  it,  solemnly  engaging  that,  if  he  did,  he  would  believe, 
and  his  people  promised  the  same.  Whereupon  Salih  asked 
it  of  God,  and  presently  the  rock,  after  several  throes  as  if  in 
labour,  was  delivered  of  a  she-camel  answering  the  description 
of  Jonda,  which  immediately  brought  forth  a  young  one,  ready 
weaned,  and,  as  some  say,  as  big  as  herself.  Jonda,  seeing  this 
miracle,  believed  on  the  prophet,  and  some  few  with  him  ;  but 
the  greater  part  of  the  Thamiidites  remained,  notwithstanding, 
incredulous." — "Those  who  were  elated  with  pride  said: 
•Verily  we  believe  not  in  that  wherein  ye  believe.*  And  they 
slew  the  camel,  and  insolently  transgressed  the  command  of  their 
Lord,  and  said  :  '  O  S^ih,  cause  that  to  come  upon  us  with 
which  thou  hast  threatened  us,  if  thou  art  one  of  those  who  have 
been  sent  by  GoD.*  Whereupon  a  terrible  noise  from  heaven 
assailed  them;  and  in  the  morning  they  were  found  in  their 
dwellings  prostrate  on  their  faces,  dead."  (Kur'an,  sur.  vii.) — 
The  tribe  of  ThamM  dwelt  first  in  the  country  of  the  Adites, 
but  their  numbers  increasing,  they  removed  to  the  territory  of 
Hejr  [Petra]  for  the  sake  of  the  mountains,  where  they  cut  them- 
selves habitations  in  the  rocks,  to  be  seen  at  this  day. — Sale. 
This  dreadful  punishment  of  the  Thamudites  would  appear  to 
have  passed  into  a  proverb.  For  example :  Sheddad,  lamenting 
the  supposed  loss  of  his  heroic  son  'Antar,  calls  down  a  hearty 
curse  upon  the  cause  of  his  misery  in  these  words :  "  May 
God  destroy  Malik,  son  of  Carad,  and  make  him  suffer  what 
the  tribe  of  Thamiid  endured ! "  {Romance  o/Aniar^  p.  237  of  the 

Z 


354  APPENDIX. 


present  volume.)  And  Hafiz,  the  Persian  poet,  in  one  of  his 
odes,  advises  his  friend  to  '*  drink  wine  and  dismiss  the  stoiy  of 
'Ad  and  Thamfld." — Zuhayr  (Mo*alIaqah,  v.  32)  compares  the 
deformed  offspring  of  War  to  "  the  dun  camel  of  *^rf,"  not  of 
Thamdd,  as  the  l^^end  runs  in  the  Kur'an. 

w.  45-49.  Queen  Bilkls,  according  to  the  genealogical  tables 
compiled  by  Major  Prideaux,  and  appended  to  his  translation  of 
this  poem,  was  the  daughter  of  £1-Hadh^d  ibn  Sharahbil ;  and 
she  is  placed  twenty-second  in  Pocock*s  list  of  the  sovereigns 
of  El- Yemen.  The  Arabs  indentify  this  princess  with  the  famous 
"Queen  of  Sheba,"  or  Sabk,  who  went  to  see  King  Solomon  in 
all  his  glory. 

King  Solomon,  as  Eastern  legends  inform  us,  among  his 
wonderful  accomplishments,  was  versed  in  the  language  of 
birds.  One  day  a  hoopoe  (called  by  the  Arabs  "al-Hudhud  ") 
brought  him  an  account  of  the  city  of  Sab^,  and  of  the  great 
Queen  Bilkts,  who,  with  all  her  subjects,  worship]>ed  the  sun. 
Shocked  at  such  wickedness,  Solomon  wrote  a  letter  to  the 
Queen,  commanding  her  to  relinquish  her  errors  and  embrace 
the  true  religion ;  and  having  perfumed  the  letter  with  musk 
and  sealed  it  with  his  signet,  he  despatched  the  hoopoe  to 
deliver  it  to  Queen  Bilkts.  The  feathered  messenger,  having 
arrived  at  her  palace,  and  finding  the  doors  all  shut,  as 
El-Beidawi  opines,  flew  in  at  a  window  and  dropped  the  letter 
on  the  Queen's  lap ;  but  Jelalu-'d-Din  says  that  she  was 
surrounded  by  her  army  when  the  lapwing  threw  it  into  her 
bosom.  All  agree,  however,  that  the  letter  was  duly  delivered, 
and  that  Queen  Bilkts,  taking  with  her,  as  the  Poet  of  Himyar 
states,  "  thousands  upon  thousands  of  the  armed  men  of  her 
people,"  immediately  set  forth  to  visit  King  Solomon,  and 
ascertain  the  tnith  of  the  reports  which  were  spread  abroad 
regarding  his  wisdom  and  piety.  The  result  was  her  profession 
of  Islim — for  according  to  the  Muhammadan  theology,  Solomon 
and  the  other  venerated  Biblical  personages  were  all  good 
Muslims :  Muhammad  professed,  not  to  introduce  a  new  re- 
ligion, but  to  restore  the  original  and  only  true  faith. 


LAY  OF  THE  HIMYARITES.  355 

They  say  that  Solomon  afterwards  married  Queen  Bilkts  of 
SabJL.  This  forms  the  subject  of  a  curious  legend  related  by 
commentators  on  the  Kur'an.  A  version  of  this  stoiy  is  given 
by  Mrs.  Godfrey  Clerk,  in  her  entertaining  little  book  of  Orien- 
tal tales  and  anecdotes,  entitled,  ^Udm-en-Nds,  In  a  prefatory 
note  to  her  translation  of  the  legend,  Mrs.  Clerk  remarks  that 
the  reign  of  Queen  Bilkts  very  nearly  coincided  with  the  com- 
mencement of  the  Christian  era.  According  to  M.  Caussin  de 
Perceval,  this  princess  killed  her  husband  by  means  of  poison. 

w.  138,  139.  A  benediction  on  the  Prophet  often  concludes 
a  Kasideh  of  an  ethical  or  devotional  character  (see  verses  159- 
161  of  Mr.  Redhouse's  translation  of  El-Busirfs  Poem  of  the 
Mantle,  page  341  of  the  present  volume).  The  poetical  exclama- 
tions of  pilgrims  when  they  first  behold  £1-Madina  are  expressed 
in  a  similar  strain :  '^  O  Allah  !  bless  the  last  of  prophets,  the 
seal  of  prophecy,  with  blessings  in  number  as  the  stars  of  heaven, 
and  the  waves  of  the  sea,  and  the  sands  of  the  waste !  bless  him, 
O  Lord  of  Might  and  Majesty,  as  long  as  the  corn-field  and  the 
date-grove  continue  to  feed  mankind  ! " — "  Live  for  ever,  O 
most  excellent  of  prophets !  live  in  the  shadow  of  happiness 
during  the  hours  of  night  and  the  times  of  day,  whilst  the 
bird  of  the  tamarisk  [the  dove]  moaneth  like  the  childless 
mother;  whilst  the  west  wind  bloweth  gently  over  the  hills 
of  Nejd,  and  the  lightning  fiasheth  bright  in  the  firmament  of 
£1-Hejaz  \ "  (Burton's  Pilgrimage  to  El-Medina  and  Meccah^ 
vol.  ii.  pp.  25,  26).  In  the  Romance  of  Antar  the  same  form 
of  benediction  frequently  occurs  ;  for  example  :  **  Live  for  ever, 
Prince  of  the  horsemen !  long  as  the  dove  pours  its  plaintive 
note,  live  for  ever ! " — "  May  peace  dwell  with  thee  as  long  as 
the  western  and  the  northern  breeze  shall  blow  ! " 


An  error  in  one  of  the  preceding  notes,  discovered  after 
the  sheet  was  printed,  may  be  corrected  here.  (v.  11.)  Sheb^, 
or  Sab^  the  ancestor  of  the  Sabeeans,  was  not  one  of  the  sons  of 
Kahtin — although  it  is  said  he  had  a  son  of  the  same  name — ^but  a 


356  APPENDIX, 


great  grandson ;  being  ['Abd-Shems,  sumamed]  Sab^  the  son 
of  Yashjub,  the  son  of  Ya'nib,  the  son  of  Kaht&n. 


••» 


THE     POET    'OMAR. 

[The  Editor  is  indebted  to  the  courtesy  of  Messrs.  Macmilian 
and  Company,  publishers,  of  London  and  Cambridge,  for 
liberty  to  make  the  following  extracts  from  the  interesting 
account  of  the  life  and  poetry  of  'Omar  the  Mogheeree,  by 
Mr.  William  GifTord  Palgrave  (author  of  "  Central  and  Eastern 
Arabia  "),  in  his  "  Essays  on  Eastern  Questions  " — ^a  volume 
at  once  highly  instructive  and  entertaining.  Mr.  Palgraves 
graceful  renderings  of  'Omar*s  verse  must  induce  the  wish  on 
the  part  of  every  reader  that  he  would  give  us  more  Arabic 
poetry  in  the  same  pleasing  English  dress.] 


"Poverty  of  means,"  says  Mr.  Palgrave,  ''isolation  of 
circumstance,  and  insecurity  of  life  had,  during  the  long 
ante-Islamitic  period,  cramped  the  energy,  narrowed  the  ideas, 
and  marred  the  taste  of  almost  all,  indeed  in  some  degree  of 
all,  Arab  poets.  The  circle  they  moved  in  was  rough,  barren, 
and  contracted  :  their  genius  dwarfed  itself  into  proportion 
with  the  limits  which  it  could  not  overpass.  The  high  rank 
and  noble  birth  of  the  pre-Islamitic  'Amroo-ben-Kelthoom 
and  *Amroo-l-Keys  had  not  exempted  them  from  ever- 
recurring  personal  dangers  and  privations  on  the  road  and 
in  the  field;  while  the  vigorous  spirit  of  Shanfara',  Ta'abbet 
Shurran,  and  their  like,  was  distorted  by  the  physical  miseiy  and 
the  savage  loneliness  to  which  their  writings  bear  such  frequent 
witness.  All  this  had  now  passed  away.  Union  had  g^ven 
security,  conquest  riches;  while  intercourse  and  Islam  had 
developed  the  intellect  of  the  nation.  Two  entirely  new 
classes  of  society  henceforth  came  into  existence — the  men  of 


THE  POET  'OMAR,  357 

pleasure  and  the  men  of  literature  :  the  former  heirs  of  a  wealth 
they  cared  rather  to  enjoy  than  to  increase ;  the  latter  seekers 
afler  wealth,  fame,  and  name,  but  by  intellectual,  not  by 
physical  distinction.  Love  and  song  tissued  the  career  of 
the  former ;  poetry  and  eloquence,  but  chiefly  poetiy,  were  the 
business  of  the  latter.  Meanwhile  a  select  few,  the  spoilt 
children  of  destiny — the  Mirandohis  or  Byrons  of  their  land 
and  day — combined  the  advantages  of  birth  and  fortune  with 
those  of  genius.  Foremost  among  these  stands  the  nobleman, 
the  warrior,  the  libertine,  but  above  all,  the  poet — the  Don 
Juan  of  Mecca,  the  Ovid  of  Arabia  and  the  East — *Omar  the 
Mc^heeree,  the  grandson  of  Aboo-Rabee'ah." 

Mogheerah,  the  great-grandfather  of  the  poet  *Omar,  had,  by 
a  wealthy  marriage,  re-united  two  important  divisions  of  Koreysh, 
and  thus  founded  a  powerful  clan,  known  as  the  Children  of 
Mc^heerah.  His  son,  Hodeykah  Aboo-Rabee'ah,  the  grand- 
father of  *Omar — called,  from  his  gigantic  stature,  **Two 
Spears,"  or  Longshanks,  as  we  should  phrase  it — distinguished 
himself  at  the  battle  of  Okatz,  shortly  before  the  birth  of  the 
Prophet.  Aboo-Rabee'ah*s  son,  Bojeyr,  the  father  of  the  poet, 
was  converted  to  Islam  by  Mohammed  himself,  who  on  the 
occasion  bestowed  on  him  the  honourable  appellation  of 
*Abd- Allah,  "Servant  of  God."  He  was  enormously  wealthy, 
having  almost  the  monopoly  of  the  trade  in  metals,  cloth,  and 
spices  with  Abyssinia  and  Yemen. 

'Omar's  mother  was  an  Arab  woman  of  Hadramaut,  a 
province  ever  famed  for  its  female  beauty ;  and  it  happened 
that  he  was  born  on  the  same  day  that  his  renowned  namesake 
the  Caliph  'Omar  was  murdered  by  the  fanatic  Persian  slave 
Firooz  (a.h.  23,  a.d.  643).  'Abd -Allah  had  a  second  son, 
called  Hirth,  by  his  other  wife,  an  Abyssinian  woman.  The 
half-blood  Hirth,  an  austere  Muslim,  passed  his  life  in  govern- 
ment employment ;  while  'Omar  idled  and  made  love-songs, 
and  got  himself  into  trouble  through  his  amours,  from  which 
it  was  often  his  brother's  i)ainful  task  to  extricate  him. 


358  APPENDIX. 


"One  year,"  says  Mr.  Palgrave,  on  the  authority  of  the 
poet's  best  biographer  Aboo-l-Faraj,  '*on  the  very  high  day  of 
the  great  annual  festival,  when  the  pilgrims,  assembled  from 
all  quarters  of  the  Mohammedan  world  at  Mecca,  were  engaged 
in  the  evening  performance  of  their  solemn  traditionary  rite, 
pacing  seven  times  in  prayer  round  the  sacred  Ka'abeh,  Zeynab^ 
a  young  girl  of  noble  birth,  happened  to  be  present  among  the 
crowd  of  worshippers,  from  whom,  however,  she  was  easily  to 
be  distinguished  by  her  surpassing  beauty  and  the  gay  dresses 
of  her  numerous  attendants.  What  next  followed  'Omar  may 
best  recite  after  his  own  &.shion,  and  in  his  own  metre,  which 
we  have  as  far  as  possible  preserved  in  the  translation  ;  though 
the  rhyme,  which  if  rendered  would  have  necessitated  too  fre- 
quent divergence  from  the  original  style  and  imagery,  has  been 
omitted  : 

Ah  for  the  throes  of  a  heart  sorely  wounded  ! 
Ah  for  the  eyes  that  have  smit  me  with  madness ! 
Gently  she  moved  in  the  calmness  of  beauty, 
Moved  as  the  bough  to  the  light  breeze  of  morning. 
Dazzled  my  eyes  as  they  gazed,  till  before  me 
All  was  a  mist  and  confusion  of  figures. 
Ne'er  had  I  sought  her,  and  ne'er  had  she  sought  me  ; 
Fated  the  love,  and  the  hour,  and  the  meeting ! 
There  I  beheld  her,  as  she  and  her  damsels 
Paced  'twixt  the  temple  and  outer  enclosure  : 
Damsels  the  fairest,  the  loveliest,  the  gentlest. 
Passing  like  slow-wending  heifers  at  evening, 
Ever  surrounding  with  courtly  observance 
Her  whom  they  honour,  the  peerless  of  women. 
Then  to  a  handmaid,  the  youngest,  she  whispered: 
"  'Omar  is  near  ;  let  us  mar  his  devotions. 
Cross  on  his  path  that  he  needs  may  observe  us ; 
Give  him  a  signal,  my  sister,  demurely." 
"  Signals  I  gave,  but  he  marked  not  or  heeded," 
Answered  the  damsel,  and  hasted  to  meet  me. 


THE  POET  'OMAR.  359 


Ab  for  that  night  by  the  vale  of  the  sand-hills ! 
Ah  for  the  dawn  when  in  silence  we  parted  ! 
He  who  the  mom  may  awake  to  her  kisses 
Drinks  from  the  cup  of  the  blessed  in  heaven  ! 

''The  last  four  lines  of  this  lyric  seem,  however,  to  have 
been  written  under  the  influence  of  poetical  anticipation ;  for 
many  weeks  and  even  months  passed  without  any  closer  inter- 
course than  that  of  love-messages  and  glances  at  a  distance. 
Zeynab,  with  her  father  Moosa,  and  her  two  elder  sisters,  pro- 
longed their  visit  at  Mecca.  'Omar  was  now  in  the  prime  of 
youth  and  personal  beauty,  advantageously  set  off  by  rank, 
wealth,  and  idleness.  No  wonder  that  his  reputation  as  a  lady- 
kiUer  was  already  pretty  well  established ;  and  that  Zeynab, 
young  herself,  and  only  too  susceptible  of  attentions  like  'Omar's, 
should  have  received  from  her  alarmed  relatives  much  prudent 
cautioning.  .  .  .  Spring  and  summer  passed  thus,  but  'Omar's 
suit  advanced  little ;  thanks  to  the  coyness  of  the  lady,  and 
still  more,  it  may  be  well  believed,  to  the  vigilance  of  her 
guardians.  .  .  . 

*'  Love,  however,  at  last  prevailed ;  and  a  rendezvous  was 
given  at  some  distance  from  the  town,  in  one  of  the  valleys  that 
lie  south-east  of  Mecca,  bordered  by  high  abrupt  rocks,  and 
green  in  its  winding  course  below  with  thick  gardens  and  palm- 
groves  :  the  very  place  for  a  stolen  interview.  Thither  Zeynab 
was  to  betake  herself  for  an  afternoon  stroll  with  a  few  chosen 
attendants;  while  'Omar  was  to  meet  her  'quite  promiscuous,' 
as  if  returning  from  a  journey.  The  plan  succeeded ;  its  opening 
scene  is  thus  described  by  'Omar  in  verses  which  long  remained 
the  euN'y  and  despair  of  rival  poets  : 

Late  and  early,  Love  between  us  idle  messenger  had  gone, 
Till  his  fatal  ambush  in  the  valley  of  Khedab  was  laid  : 
There  we  met ;   nor  sign,  nor  token,  needed  but  a  glance— no 
more; 


36o  APPENDIX, 


All  my  heart  and  all  its  passion  mirrored  in  her  heart  I  saw ; 
And  I  said :  "  Tis  evening  cool ;  the  gardened  houses  are  not  far ; 
Why  unsocial  bide  we  seated  weary  on  the  weary  beasts  ?  " 
Turned  she  to  her  damsels  with  **  What  say  ye  ?  "    They  replied, 

"Alight; 
Better  far  the  cool  earth's  footing  than  the  uneasy  saddle  perch. " 
Down  they  glided,  clustering  starlike  round  the  perfect  queen 

of  night. 
Calmly  wending  in  her  beauty,  as  to  music's  measured  beat. 
Shyly  drew  I  near  and  greeted,  fearful  lest  some  jealous  eye 
Should  behold  us,  or  the  palm-trees  tell  the  story  of  our  loves. 
Half- withdrawn  her  veil,   she  whispered :    **  Fear  not,  freely 

speak  your  mind. 
Kinsmen  none  are  here  to  watch  us ;  thou  and  I  may  claim  our 


own." 


Bold  I  answered :    "  Were  there  thousands,  fearless  would  I 

bide  their  worst : 
But  the  secret  of  my  bosom  brooks  no  ear,  no  eye  but  thine." 
Then  the  maidens — ^ah,  the  maidens! — noted  how  apart  we 

drew; 
Well  they  guessed  unspoken  wishes,  and  the  inmost  thoughts  of 

love. 
Said  they :  **Give  us  leave  to  wander;   bide  thou  here  alone 

awhile ; 
We  will  stroll  a  little  onwards,  *neath  the  pleasant  evening  star." 
**  Be  not  long,*'  she  answered ;  said  they  :  **  Fear  not,  we  will 

straight  return — 
Straight  be  with  thee ; "  and  at  once  like  trooping  fawns  they 

slipped  away. 
Little  need  to  ask  their  meaning ;  if  they  came  or  if  they  went — 
Known  to  her,  to  me,  the  purpose  :  yet  we  had  not  said  a  word. 

**  It  may  be  easily  imagined  that  Zeynab's  attendants  were  too 
discreet  to  return  in  a  hurry ;  and  the  lovers,  r^ardless  of  time, 
prolonged  their  meeting  till  evening  had  passed  into  night,  when 
there  came  on  a  sudden  storm  of  rain,  such  as  is  not  uncommon 


THE  POET  'OMAR,  361 


among  the  hills  of  the  Hejaz  coast.  'Omar,  gallantly  fearful 
lest  the  light  dress  of  his  fair  companion  should  suffer,  took  off 
his  cloak,  one  of  red  embroidered  silk  and  wool,  such  as  still 
may  be  often  seen  worn  by  the  upper  classes  in  the  peninsula, 
and  cast  it  over  her  shoulders;  while  she  playfully  refused  to 
accept  the  shelter  unless  on  condition  that  he  should  keep  a  part 
of  it  over  himself;  and  in  this  amiable  proximity  they  remained 
awhile  till  the  shower  had  blown  over,  and  the  approach  of 
dawn  warned  them  to  separate. 

"  Thus  far  all  was  well,  and  might  perhaps  have  continued 
so  but  for  the  vanity  of  'Omar  himself,  who. a  few  days  after- 
wards published  the  whole  adventure,  not  forgetting  the 
circumstance  of  the  shower  and  the  cloak,  in  verses  that 
expressed  much  and  suggested  more.  In  spite  of  the  thin 
disguise  of  fictitious  personages,  Zeynab's  name,  joined  with 
that  of  'Omar,  was  soon  in  every  mouth ;  and  Moosa,  the  father 
of  the  young  lady,  began  to  have  serious  fears  as  to  the  conse- 
quences of  so  compromising  a  courtship.  Young  'Omar, 
wealthy  and  powerful,  not  only  in  the  popularity  of  rising 
genius,  but  in  the  near  relationship  of  princes  and  caliphs,  was 
beyond  the  reach  of  his  anger ;  and  Moosa  determined  accord- 
ingly to  seek  for  his  daughter  in  flight  the  security  which 
he  could  not  hope  from  open  contest.  Silently  and  secretly  he 
prepared  his  departure  from  the  Hejaz ;  but  'Omar  had  notice 
of  it  in  time  to  obtain  yet  one  more  interview  with  the  young 
lady.  Zeynab,  however,  took  her  precautions,  and  brought 
with  her  this  time,  not  her  own  attendants  only,  but  several 
others  of  her  Meccan  female  friends,  easily  induced  to  accompany 
her  by  their  curiosity  to  make  a  nearer  acquaintance  with  the 
first  poet  of  the  day.  The  rendezvous  was  in  a  valley  at  some 
distance  out  of  town  ;  and  there  the  whole  party  remained  from 
evening  to  sunrise  :  the  result  was  a  serious  proposal  of  marriage  - 
on  'Omar's  part,  accepted  by  Zeynab ;  but  on  condition  that, 
afler  her  own  and  her  father's  removal  to  their  projected  estab- 
lishment in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  Persian  Gulf,  'Omar 
should   follow  them  thither,  and  there  make  his  offer  in  due 


362  APPENDIX. 


form.     In  the  meantime  he  was  neither  to  see  her  nor  speak 
with  her,  either  in  public  or  in  private." 

'Omar,  however,  soon  broke  his  promise,  and  attempted,  bot 
without  success,  to  obtain  another  interview  with  Zeynab  before 
her  departure.  His  half-brother  Hirth,  alarmed  at  the  possible 
cx>nsequences  of  his  levity,  ''giving  him  a  large  supply  of 
money  for  the  road,  sent  him  off  to  look  after  some  fiunily 
estates  in  the  extreme  south  of  Yemen,  after  a  serious  waming 
and  a  solemn  promise  exacted  that  he  would  amend  his  doings 
in  future.  *Omar  obeyed ;  but  once  alone,  a  male  Mariana 
in  the  south,  separation  and  solitude  proved  too  much  for  him ; 
and  before  many  weeks  of  his  banishment  were  over,  he  had 
begun  to  solace  his  loneliness  with  several  pathetic  effusions,  to 
all  of  which  Zeynab  was  the  keynote.  The  following  may  serve 
as  a  specimen : 

Ah  !  where  have  they  made  my  dwelling  ?    Far,  how  fiu',  from 

her,  the  loved  one. 
Since  they  drove  me  lone  and  parted  to  the  sad  sea-shore  of  'Aden ! 
Thou  art  mid  the  distant  mountains ;  and  to  each,  the  loved  and 

lover, 
Nought  is  left  but  sad  remembrance,  and  a  share  of  aching 

sorrow. 
Hadst  thou  seen  thy  lover  weeping  by  the  sand-hills  of  the  ocean. 
Thou  hadst  deemed  him  struck  by  madness:  was  it  madness? 

was  it  love  ? 
I  may  forget  all  else,  but  never  shall  forget  her  as  she  stood, 
As  I  stood,  that  hour  of  parting :  heart  to  heart  in  speechless 

anguish ; 
Then  she  turned  her  to  Thoreyya,  to  her  sister,  sadly  weeping ; 
Coursed  the  tears  down  cheek  and  bosom,  till  her  passion  found 

an  utterance : 
"  Tell  him,  sister,  tell  him ;  yet  be  not  as  one  that  chides  or 

murmurs — 
'Why  so  long  thy  distant  tarrying  on  the  unlovely  shores  of 

Yemen  ? 


THE  POET  'OMAR.  363 


Is  it  sated  ease  detains  thee,  or  the  quest  of  wealth  that  lores 

thee? 
Tell  me  what  the  price  they  paid  thee,  that  from  Mecca  bought 

thy  absence  ? '  '* 

At  length  *Omar  returns  to  Mecca  ;  and  for  the  next  six  years 
he  continued,  in  exquisite  poetry,  to  lament  the  absent  Zeynab — 
and  to  make  love  to  other  girls.  In  the  meantime  Zeynab*s  two 
elder  sisters  had  married,  but  she  remained  single ;  and  on  the 
death  of  her  father  Moosa  she  returned  to  Mecca,  accompanied 
by  an  old  negress  who  had  formerly  been  her  nurse.  It  happened 
that  'Omar,  splendidly  dressed,  mounted  on  his  best  horse,  and 
with  numerous  attendants,  was  riding  about  the  neighbourhood 
of  the  city  when  Zeynab's  litter  approached.  Questioning  the 
old  negress,  he  soon  elicited  the  news  of  Ze3mab's  return.  The 
courtship  was  renewed,  and  this  time  in  earnest ;  for  'Omar 
married  Zeynab,  who  bore  him  a  son  and  a  daughter. 

"  'Omar  is  twice  mentioned  as  taking  part  in  the  numerous 
military  expeditions  of  the  time ;  one,  against  the  restless 
inhabitants  of  Hasa,  then  fermenting  into  the  rebellion  which 
ultimately  separated  them  from  the  body  of  the  empire ;  the 
other,  when  he  was  already  over  seventy,  if  dates  be  exact, 
against  the  Byzantine  capital  itself  during  the  reign  of  Suleyman, 
the  seventh  Caliph  of  the  Omeyyah  family.  In  this  latter  ex- 
pedition the  Poet,  according  to  Ebn-Khallikan,  found  a  soldier's, 
and,  in  Mohammedan  estimation,  a  martyr's  death ;  perishing 
with  countless  others  by  the  Greek  fire  that  consumed  the 
beleaguering  Arab  fleet.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Isphahanee 
chronicler  Aboo-l-Faraj  brings  him  back  to  die  some  years  later 
in  his  bed,  at  the  advanced  age  of  eighty.  The  former  account 
IS  probably  the  more  correct  one ;  but  in  no  cose  has  the  charge 
of  military  incapacity  been  laid  against  'Omar ;  and  personal 
cowardice,  a  fault  rare  among  Arabs,  whatever  their  tribe  or 
clan,  would  have  been  indeed  a  prodigy  in  one  descended  from 
Koreysh." 


364  APPENDIX. 


ON   THE   PROSODY   OF   THE   ARABS; 


WITH  SPECIMENS  OF  THE  POETRY  OF  "  THE  THOUSAND 

AND  ONE  NIGHTS." 


[In  the  New  Quarterly  Magazine,  for  January  and  April, 
1879,  there  appeared  two  excellent  papers  on  *•  The  Thousand 
and  One  Nights,"  from  the  pen  of  Mr.  John  Payne — ^author  of 
"  The  Masque  of  Shadows,"  "  The  Poems  of  Francis  Villon," 
and  other  well'known  poetical  works — who  has  been  for  some 
time  engaged  on  a  new  translation  (the  first  complete  one) 
of  the  fascinating  romances  and  tales  comprised  in  that  work. 
The  following  outline  of  the  general  principles  of  Arabian 
Prosody — including  specimens  of  the  charming  poetry  of  "  The 
Thousand  and  One  Nights,*'  in  which  the  various  forms  of 
metre  and  rhyme  are  admirably  preserved  in  English  verse — 
taken  from  the  second  of  these  articles  by  permission  of  the 
author,  will  doubtless  prove  very  acceptable  to  the  class  of 
readers  for  whom  the  present  volume  is  mainly  designed  ;  while 
to  scholars  Mr.  Payne's  versified  translations  must  be  peculiarly 
interesting,  as  showing  the  adaptability  of  our  language,  in 
some  degree,  to  the  peculiarities  of  Oriental  prosody.  Mr. 
Payne's  translation  oi Elf  Leyleh  wa  Ltylehy  or  "The  Thousand 
and  One  Nights,"  is  looked  for,  both  by  Arabists  and  men  of 
general  literary  culture,  with  considerable  interest ;  and  judging 
by  the  specimens  of  the  tales  which  are  given  in  the  articles 
above  mentioned,  his  work,  when  published,  is  likely  to  attain 
an  immediate  and  a  lasting  popularity. — Ed.] 


Before  proceeding  to  cite  specimens  of  the  verse  of  "The 
Thousand  and  One  Nights,"  it  is  perhaps  well  to  give  a  rough 
outline  of  the  principles  upon  which  the  prosody  of  the  Arabs  is 
founded.  The  invariable  unit,  upon  which  Arabic  (and  Persian) 
verse  is  built,  is  the  belt  or  line,  usually  but  improperly  translated 


PROSODY  OF  THE  ARABS,  365 

"couplet."  The  word  belt  signifies  literally  **  a  house,"  but  by 
analogy  "a  tent  ^  (and  from  this  we  may  fairly  conclude  at  least 
this  fundamental  part  of  Arabic  prosody  to  have  originated  with 
the  Bedouins  or  Arabs  of  the  desert,  as  it  is  only  they  who  would 
be  likely  to  call  a  tent  a  house),  the  verse  being  whimsically 
regarded  by  the  Arabs  as  an  edifice ;  and  this  simile  is  carried 
out  in  the  nomenclature  of  the  different  parts  of  the  line,  one  foot 
being  called  •*  a  tent-pole,"  another  "a  tent-peg,"  and  the  two 
hemistichs  of  the  verse  being  known  as  the  folds  or  leaves  of  the 
double-door  of  the  tent.  Each  beit  is  divided  into  two  hemistichs 
of  equal  length,  each  containing  two,  three,  or  four  feet,  of  two, 
three,  or  four  syllables,  and  the  whole  verse  is  known  as  a 
tetrameter,  hexameter,  or  octameter,  according  as  it  contains 
four,  six,  or  eight  feet,  or  from  sixteen  to  thirty-two  syllables. 

A  peculiarity  of  Arabic  verse  is  the  excess  of  long  syllables 
over  short  and  the  absence  of  the  dactyl  and  other  swift  feet 
in  use  among  Europeans :  a  characteristic  which  produces  a 
graver  and  more  stately  movement  of  the  rhythm  than  is  com- 
mon in  European  poetry.  I  should  perhaps,  however,  observe 
that  the  qualifications  "long"  and  "short"  are  somewhat 
empirically  applied  to  the  syllables  of  Arabic  feet,  as  their 
quantities  appear  to  be  hardly  appreciable  to  a  European  ear — 
the  "long,"  in  particular,  being  of  a  shifting  character,  so  much 
so  indeed  that  certain  readers  of  the  Koran  are  said  to  have 
been  known  to  make  use  of  no  less  than  seven  varieties  of  this 
quantity.  This  being  the  case,  it  has  been  suggested  by  the 
eminent  French  orientalist,  M.  Stanislas  Guiraud,  that  musical 
notation  should  be  applied  to  the  determining  of  the  Arabic 
rhythms ;  but  notwithstanding  the  ingenuity  and  ability  of  his 
treatise  on  the  subject,  his  tentatives  do  not  as  yet  appear  to 
have  brought  about  any  very  definite  result.  The  distinguished 
scholar  Professor  E.  H.  Palmer  (who  adds  to  his  high  scholastic 
attainments  a  literary  faculty  and  a  gift  of  graceful  and  polished 
versification  rare  among  scholars)  has  indeed  endeavoured 
to  reproduce  in  English  the  precise  rhythm  and  accent  of  Arabic 
verse ;   but    he    himself  acknowledges  the  experiment  to  be 


366  APPENDIX. 


an  unsuccessful  one,  and  pronounces  against  the  feasibility  of 
representing  Oriental  metres  by  a  similar  arrangement  of  feet 
and  accents  in  English  verse.  The  genius  of  the  two  languages, 
belonging  as  they  do  to  opposite  groups  of  speech-forms,  presents 
no  point  of  union ;  and  it  seems  to  me  therefore  that  the  only 
satisfactory  way  of  rendering  Arabic  poetry  into  English  verse  is 
to  content  oneself  generally  with  observing  the  exterior  form  of 
the  stanza,  the  movement  of  the  rhyme  and  (as  far  as  possible) 
the  identity  in  number  of  the  syllables  composing  the  beits. 

The  principal  Arabic  metres  are  sixteen  in  number,  each  sub- 
divided by  numerous  variations;  and  it  may,  perhaps,  be  interesting 
to  note  here  the  somewhat  whimsical  names  given  to  them  in  the 
East.  The  generic  name  given  to  them  is  Behr^  literally  *'  sea,* 
but  by  analogy  the  space  comprised  within  the  walls  of  a  tent — 
thus  continuing  the  metaphor  before  mentioned ;  and  they  are 
distinguished  individually  as  the  long,  the  extended,  the  open,  the 
copious,  the  perfect,  the  trilling,  the  tremulous,  the  running, 
the  swift,  the  flowing,  the  light,  the  analogous,  the  improvised,  the 
curtailed,  the  approximative,  and  the  consecutive.  I  should 
perhaps  mention  here  that  the  system  of  Arabic  prosody  is  said 
to  have  been  invented  by  one  Khalil,  a  grammarian^  and  to 
have  been  suggested  to  him  by  the  strokes  of  a  blacksmith's 
hammer  upon  an  anvil :  not  the  most  promising  combination  of 
circumstance  for  the  birth  of  so  important  a  branch  of  art. 

The  principal  form  used  in  Arabic  Poetry  is  the  Kendehj 
practically  identical  with  the  better-known  form  of  the  Ghasd 
or  love-song  par  excellence^  with  the  exception  that  the  latter 
is  limited  to  eighteen  belts  or  verses,  and  must  contain  the  name 
of  the  poet  in  the  last  belt.  The  Kesideh  may  be  either  tetra- 
metric,  hexametric,  or  octametric,  and  is  built  upon  a  single 
rhyme,  the  two  hemistichs  of  the  first  belt  rhyming  with  each 
other  and  with  the  second  hemistich  of  each  succeeding  belt  to 
the  end  of  the  poem,  however  long  it  may  be.  It  is  a  curious 
fact,  that  the  same  prohibition  of  enjambement  or  the  carrying 
on  of  the  sense  from  one  verse  (or  pair  of  hemistichs)  to  another 
obtains  in  Arabic  as  in  French  classic  verse,  it  being  considered 


PROSODY  OF  THE  ARABS.  367 


a  fault  not  to  complete  the  sense  in  the  one  verse.  It  is  allow- 
able to  repeat  the  same  rhyming  word,  but  (according  to  the  strict 
laws  of  prosody)  not  unless  seven  verses  intervene  between  the 
repetitions.  However,  this  and  the  preceding  rule  are  con- 
stantly  violated  by  Arabic  poets,  who  appear  to  have  little 
scruple  in  repeating  the  rhyming  word  whenever  it  suits  them, 
and  in  Persian  verse  (whose  laws  are  essentially  the  same  as 
those  of  Arabic  prosody)  the  license  is  still  greater,  the  same 
word  in  the  same  sense  being  allowed  to  form  the  rhyme 
throughout  a  whole  Ghazd,  The  Kesideh  is  the  form  which 
most  frequently  occurs  in  "The  Thousand  and  One  Nights." 
The  following  is  a  specimen  : 

Lady  of  beauty,  that  dost  take  all  hearts  with  thy  disdain. 
And  slay'st  with  stress  of  love  the  souls  that  sigh  for  thee  in  vain, 
If  thou  recall  me  not  to  mind  beyond  our  parting  day, 
God  knows  the  thought  of  thee  with  me  for  ever  shall  remain. 
Thou  smitest  me  with  cruel  words,  that  yet  are  dear  to  me  ; 
Wilt  thou  one  day  vouchsafe  to  me  thy  sweetest  sight  again  ? 
I  had  not  thought  the  ways  of  Love  were  languishment  and  woe 
And  stress  of  soul,  before,  alas  !  to  love  thee  I  was  fain. 
Even  my  foes  have  ruth  on  me  and  pity  my  distress  ; 
But  thou,  O  heart  of  steel,  wilt  ne'er  have  mercy  on  my  pain  ! 
By  God,  although  I  die,  Til  ne'er  be  comforted  for  thee  ! 
Though  Love  itself  should  fail,  my  love  shall  never  pass  or  wane ! 

Another  form  which  is  of  frequent  occurrence  in  the  collection 
is  the  KUat  or  Fragment.  It  is  formed  in  precisely  the  same 
manner  as  the  Kesidehy  with  the  exception  that  the  two  hemi- 
stichs  of  the  first  beit  do  not  rhyme  with  each  other.  Here  is  a 
specimen  of  this  form : 

Thou  madest  fair  thy  thought  of  fate,  when  that  the  days  were 
fair. 

And  fearedst  not  the  coming  ills  that  they  to  thee  should  bring ; 
The  nights  were  calm  and  safe  to  thee;  thou  wast  deceived  by  them. 

For  in  the  peace  of  night  is  bom  full  many  a  troublous  thing. 


368  APPENDIX. 


Lo !  in  the  skies  are  many  stars,  no  one  can  tell  their  tale ; 
But  to  the  sun  and  moon  alone  eclipse  brings  darkening. 
The  earth  bears  many  a  pleasant  herb,  and  many  a  plant  and 
tree ; 
But  none  are  stoned  save  only  those  to  which  the  iaSa  fruits 
cling. 
Look  on  the  sea,  and  how  the  waifs  float  high  upon  the  foam ; 
But  in  its  deepest  depths  of  blue  the  pearls  have  sojourning. 

The  only  other  verse-form  that  occurs  with  any  firequenqf  is 
the  Mukhemnus  or  Cinquain,  a  succession  of  stanzas,  each 
formed  of  two  beits  and  a  hemistich,  the  five  hemistichs  of  the 
first  strophe  having  the  same  rh3rme,  the  first  four  hemistichs  of 
the  succeeding  stanzas  taking  a  new  rhyme  independently  of  the 
first,  and  the  fifth  hemistich  rhyming  with  the  first  strophe  to 
the  end  of  the  poem.  Another  form  of  the  Mukfummis  also 
occurs,  which  differs  only  from  the  first  in  that  the  last  hemi- 
stichs of  the  stanzas  rhyme  with  each  other  only,  independently 
of  the  first  stanza.     Here  is  a  specimen  of  the  first  form  : 

I  STROVE  to  hide  the  load  that  Love  on  me  did  lay  : 
In  vain  ;  and  sleep  from  me  for  aye  is  fled  away. 
Since  that  wanhope  doth  press  my  heart  both  night  and  day, 
I  cry  aloud  :  "  O  Fate,  hold  back  thy  hand,  I  pray  ! 
For  all  my  soul  is  sick  for  anguish  and  dismay.^ 


» 


If  that  the  Lord  of  Love  were  just  indeed  to  me. 
Sleep  had  not  fled  my  eyes  by  his  unkind  decree. 
Have  pity,  sweet,  on  one  that  is  for  love  of  thee 
Worn  out  and  wasted  sore,  that  once  was  rich  and  free. 
Now  humbled  and  cast  down  by  Love  from  his  array. 

Thy  foes  cease  not  to  speak  thee  ill ;  I  heed  not,  I  ; 
But  stop  my  ear  to  them  and  give  them  back  the  lie  : 
I'll  keep  my  troth  with  her  I  love,  until  I  die. 
"  Thou  lovest  one  estranged,**  they  say ;  and  I  reply  : 
Enough.    Fate  blinds  the  eyes  of  those  that  are.  its  prey. 


PROSODY  OF  THE  ARABS.  369 


The   following  is  a   specimen  of  the   second  form  of  the 
Mukhemmes : 

Who  says  to  thee,  **  The  first  of  love  is  free," 
Tell  him,  "  Not  so  ;  **  but  on  the  contrary : 
'Tis  all  constraint,  wherein  no  blame  can  be. 
History  indeed  attests  this  verity ; 

It  does  not  style  the  good  coin  falsified. 

Say,  if  thou  wilt,  "  The  taste  of  pain  is  sweet, 
Or  to  be  spumed  by  Fortune's  flying  feet ; " 
Talk  of  whatever  makes  the  heart  to  beat 
For  grief  or  gladness,  fortune  or  defeat ; 
'Twixt  hope  and  fear  I  tarry  stupefied. 

But  as  for  him  whose  happy  days  are  light, 
Fair  maids  whose  lips  with  smiles  are  ever  bright, 
Sweet  with  the  fragrant  breath  of  their  delight, 
Who  has  his  will,  unhindered  of  despite, 

'Tis  not  with  him  that  craven  fear  should  bide. 

The  Mteweshih  or  Ballad  is  another  form  which  occurs  in 
the  ''Thousand  and  One  Nights."  It  is,  perhaps,  the  most 
complicated  verse-form  in  the  language,  and  is  said  to  have  been 
invented  by  the  Muslim  poets  of  Spain,  shortly  alter  the  conquest, 
and  to  have  been  adopted  from  them  by  their  brethren  of  Egypt 
and  Syria.  It  consists  of  a  succession  of  three-line  stanzas,  in 
the  first  of  which  all  six  hemistichs  end  with  the  same  rhyme. 
In  the  second  and  succeeding  stanzas,  the  first  line  and  the  first 
hemistich  of  the  second  line  take  a  new  rhyme ;  but  the  second 
hemistich  of  the  second  line  resumes  the  rhyme  of  the  first  stanza, 
and  is  followed  by  the  third  line  of  the  latter,  which  serves  as 
a  refrain  to  each  stanza  of  the  poem,  which  is  often  of  consider- 
able length.     Here  is  a  specimen  of  this  el^ant  form  : 

O  Censor  of  Love  !  thou  that  art  bright  as  the  day, 
Fortunate,  clad  with  delight  as  the  trees  in  May ! 

2  A 


370  .'IPr/-  \.-'lX. 


If  Fate  with  its  criu-I  Ini  1    I    uld  thee  assay, 
'1  !icn  wilt  tluHi  t;i>tc  of  it    •  'ter  cup  and  say, 

Alns  for  L(»v(.',  aiul  en;  ..>i  his  whole  array ! 

My  hen'  I  with  )ii>  ll  m  i;.t  fires  is  burnt  away. 

lUu  t()-tl:iy  thou  art  .^alV  .•    y :  t  from  his  fell  commands. 
Ami  ]ii<  perfidy  1)(»KU  ill**  P"!  in  its  iron  bands ; 
So  scoff  not  at  those  tliat  i  j    uish  beneath  his  hands 
And  tiy,  for  twee-.,  of  pa-^.  ■  .1  that  doth  them  slay, 

Ala^  for  Love,  and  nn:  .»n  his  whole  array! 

My  heart  with  his  fl;v> -ijr  fires  is  burnt  away. 

Ue  not  of  those  that  look  <»•    T^ve  with  disdain, 
I>uL  rather  excuse  and  jMty  t'le  lovers*  pain, 
Ler«t  thou  be  hound  one  d  \\"  in  the  self-same  chain, 
And  drink  of  the  self-oanu-  >>itter  draught  as  they. 

Alas  for  I  o\v,  and  ou"  on  his  whole  array ! 

My  heart  \\  ith  his  flanung  fires  is  burnt  away. 

There  is  none  that  can  tell  of  Love  and  its  bitterness 
liut  he  that  is  sick  and  w.  ..k  for  its  long  excess, 
1  le  who  has  lost  hi^  reason  for  love-distress, 
\V!ir»se  drink  is  the  bitiei  tlregs  of  his  own  dismay. 

Alas  for  Love,  and  out  on  his  whole  array  ! 

My  heart  with  his  llaming  fires  is  burnt  away. 

How  many  a  Kner  watches  the  darksome  night. 
His  eyes  forlMtlden  the  taste  of  sleep's  delight ! 
How  man)  who-e  ieai<.  like  rivers  adown  a  height. 
Course  di>\>Ti  their  the  .'ks !    How  many  are  they  that  say, 

Alas  for  Love,  nnd  out  on  his  whole  array! 

My  he.irt  w  ith  hi^  tlaming  fires  is  burnt  away. 

How  many  :i  luvrr  wa-^ieth  for  sheer  despair, 
\\  akefi:!,  fnr  void  of  sUep  is  the  dusky  air  ! 
LanL;u<»r  and  pain  aie  the  clothes  that  he  doth  wear, 
And  even  his  plea>'aii  dreams  have  gone  astray. 

Ala-  fv.r  L")\c.  an<l  out  on  his  whole  array  ! 

My  heart  w  ith  his  flaming  fires  is  burnt  away. 


PROSODY  OF  THE  ARABS.  371 

I,  too,  of  old  was  empty  of  heart  and  free. 
And  lay  down  to  rest  in  peace  till  I  met  with  thee : 
The  taste  of  the  sleepless  nights  was  strange  to  me, 
Till  Love  did  beckon,  and  I  must  needs  obey. 

Alas  for  Love,  and  out  on  his  whole  array ! 

My  heart  with  his  flaming  fires  is  burnt  away. 

How  often  my  patience  fails  and  my  bones  do  waste, 
And  my  tears,  like  a  fount  of  blood,  stream  down  in  haste  I 
For  my  life,  that  of  old  was  pleasant  and  sweet  of  taste, 
A  slender  maiden  hath  bittered  this  many  a  day. 

Alas  for  Love,  and  out  on  his  whole  array  ! 

My  heart  with  his  flaming  fires  is  burnt  away. 

Alack  for  the  man  among  men  that  loves  like  me, 
And  watches  the  wings  of  night  through  the  shadows  flee  I 
Who  drowns  in  his  own  despair  as  it  were  a  sea. 
Who  cries,  in  the  stress  of  an  anguish  without  allay, 

Alas  for  Love,  and  out  on  his  whole  array ! 

My  heart  with  his  flaming  fires  is  burnt  away. 

Whom  hath  not  Love  stricken  and  wounded  indeed  ? 

Who  has  been  aye  from  his  easy  fetters  freed? 

Whose  life  is  empty  of  Love,  and  who  succeed 

In  winning  their  hearts'  delight  without  afiray  ? 
Alas  for  Love,  and  out  on  his  whole  array  1 
My  heart  with  his  flaming  fires  is  burnt  away. 

Other  forms  of  the  Mvweshih  exist,  but  the  above  is  the  only 
one  to  be  found  in  "  The  Thousand  and  One  Nights."  Single 
lines  are  of  frequent  occurrence,  which  are  apparently  '*  blank" 
(that  is  to  say,  the  two  hemistichs  of  which  do  not  rhyme  with 
each  other),  but  this  is  only  apparent,  as  the  verses  in  question 
are  nothing  more  than  the  commencing  lines  of  a  Kitat  or  an 
extract  from  that  form  of  poem  or  from  a  Kcsidehy  blank  verse 
havkig  no  existence  in  Arabic  poetry. 


372  APPENDIX. 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT. 

Besides  Professor  E.  H.  Palmer's  elegant  transUtion  of  Antan's 
Mo'allaqah,  included  in  a  small  volume  entitled  "  The  Song  of 
the  Reed,  and  Other  Pieces,"  published  by  Messrs.  Triibner  and 
Co.,  of  London,  the  only  attempts  that  have  been  made  to 
render  passages  of  the  "  Seven  Arabian  Poems  *  into  English 
verse  are — the  first  sixteen  verses  of  Lebid  by  Carlyle,  and  a  few 
of  the  more  striking  passages  of  the  other  Poems  by  the  anony- 
mous writer  of  an  article  on  the  Mo'allaqat  in  voL  ▼.  of  the 
Retrospective  Review^  1822.  Carlyle's  ''learned  translation  *  of 
Lebid's  opening  couplets,  as  Burton  terms  it  half-scomfully  in 
his  **  Pilgrimage  to  El-Medina  and  Mecrah,"  forms  the  first  of  his 
"  Specimens  of  Arabian  Poetry,"  but  was  omitted  in  the  rqirint 
of  his  translations  in  the  present  volume,  in  order  that  it  mi^t 
be  more  appropriately  placed,  with  the  other  versified  passages 
of  the  Mo'allaqat,  among  the  following  Notes. 

A  new  translation  of  the  Mo'allaqat,  done  with  the  light  of 
the  Commentaries,  will  probably  appear  shortly,  by  Mr.  C  J. 
Lyall,  of  the  Indian  Civil  Service,  who  has  already  published,  by 
way  of  specimens,  in  the  Jtmrnal  of  the  Bengal  Asiatic  Society, 
the  Poems  of  Lebid  and  Zuhayr,  with  Introductions  and  copious 
Notes.  In  these  translations  Mr  Ljrall  has  preserved  the  external 
form  of  the  original  verses,  though  he  has  not  attempted  to 
reproduce  the  Qasida  rhyme.  When  Mr  Lyall's  complete  trans- 
lation is  published,  it  will  doubtless  supersede  that  of  Sir  WiDiam 
Jones ;  which,  however,  with  all  its  imperfections,  must  continue 
to  be  respectfully  regarded  as  being  the  first  attempt  to  translate 
these  remarkable  compositions  into  any  of  the  modem  European 
languages. 

The  following  Notes  are  designed  simply  for  the  general 
reader,  to  whom  they  may  perhaps  serve  to  render  certain 
obscure  passages  and  expressions  in  the  English  text  somewhat 
more  intelligible.  It  is  perhaps  hardly  necessary  to  state  that 
the  words  printed  in  italic  letters  in  the  text  are  explanatory 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT 


373 


interpolations  of  the  translator,  and  are  not  in  the  original. 
Those  verses  which  are  distinguished  by  asterisks  are  not  given 
in  the  original  texts  which,  printed  in  Roman  characters,  are 
appended  to  the  translation  as  given  in  Sir  W.  Jones' 
collected  Works. 


THE   POEM  OF  AMRIOLKAIS. 
w,  I — 6. 

Stayl  let  us  weep,  while  memory  tries  to  trace 

The  long-lost  fair  one's  sand-girt  dwelling-place; 

Though  the  rude  winds  have  swept  the  sandy  plain. 

Still  some  faint  traces  of  that  spot  remain. 

My  comrades  reined  their  coursers  by  my  side. 

And  "Yield  not — yield  not  to  despair  !"  they  cried. 

(Tears  were  my  sole  reply ;  yef  what  avail 

Tears  shed  on  sands,  or  sighs  upon  the  gale  ?) 

"  The  same  thy  fortune,  and  thy  tears  the  same, 

When  bright  Howaira  and  Rebaba  came 

To  say  farewell  on  Mbsel's  swelling  brow. 

And  left  thee  mourning,  as  thou  moumest  now  ! " 

•*  Think  ye — ah,  think  ye  I  forget  the  day 

That  tore  those  damsels  from  my  soul  away. 

Who  breathed  a  farewell,  as  they  left  these  bowers, 

Sweet  as  an  eastern  gale  on  fields  of  flowers  ? '' — Ret,  Rev. 

V.  1 8.  The  word  thiydb  (clothes)  in  this  couplet  is  taken  by 
some  commentators  to  mean  "heart";  and  in  this  sense  it  is 
used  in  the  Kur'an  :  "thy  clothes  [ue,  heart]  cleanse."  Among 
the  pagan  Arabs  a  divorce  consisted  in  the  man's  withdrawing 
his  clothes  from  his  wife,  and  the  wife's  withdrawing  her  clothes 
from  him.  The  poet  therefore,  in  effect,  says:  "If  there  be 
aught  in  me  that  offends  thee,  then  withdraw  thy  clothes  from 
my  clothes — thy  heart  from  mine." 

V.  23.  The  Pleiads. — It  is  very  usual  in  all  countries  to  make 
frequent  allusions  to  the  brightness  of  the  celestial  luminaries, 
which  give  their  light  to  all ;  but  the  metaphors  taken  from  them 
have  an  additional  beauty  if  we  consider  them  as  made  by  a  nation 


\c^ 


374  APPENDIX, 


who  pass  most  of  their  nights  in  the  open  air,  or  in  tents,  and  ooa- 
seqnently  see  the  moon  and  the  stars  in  thdr  greatest  splendour. 
— Sir  W,  Jones :  Essay  on  the  Poetry  of  Eastern  Nations. 

V.  31.  Wejrah  is  a  stage  on  the  road  from  Mecca  to  El- 
Basiah,  40  miles,  or  3  stages,  from  the  former,  and  mach  fie* 
quented  by  wild-kine.  The  mention  of  the  look  which  a  wild  oow 
or  deer  casts  on  her  young  one,  at  which  time  her  eyes  are  most 
beautiful  and  tender,  as  a  comparison  for  the  eyes  of  a  beautiful 
woman,  is  common  in  old  Arab  poetry. — LyalL  (See  Lebid's 
Mo'all.  V.  14,  and  Tarafa's  Mo'all.  v.  32.) 

vv,  22—33. 

Once  through  the  ranks,  at  midnight's  gloomy  hour, 

Of  hostile  tribes,  I  sought  the  maiden's  bower. 

When  shone  the  Pleiads  in  the  starry  globe. 

Like  golden  spangles  on  an  azure  robe. 

Soon  as  I  came,  I  saw  her  figure  bent 

In  eager  gazing  from  the  opening  tent.  ' 

"  By  heaven  ! "  she  whispered,  as  her  hand  she  gave, 

"Secure  1*11  trust  me  to  a  heart  so  brave ; "  I 

We  rose,  and  gliding  o'er  the  silent  plain,  I 

She  swept  our  footsteps  with  her  flowing  train.  | 

A  plain  we  reached  beneath  the  cloud  of  night, 

Whose  sandy  hillocks  hid  our  onward  flight 

Safe  from  the  foeman.     By  her  waving  hair 

To  my  fond  heart  I  drew  the  trembling  fair  : 

Raptured  I  gazed  upon  her  polished  breast,  1 

Smooth  as  a  mirror  set  within  her  vest ;  ' 

Or  like  an  ostrich-egg,  of  pearly  white, 

Left  in  the  sands  and  half  exposed  to  sight. 

The  timid  maiden  turned  away  her  face. 

With  eyes  averted  shunned  my  rude  embrace. 

Raised  her  arched  neck  in  consdous  virtue's  pride, 

Then  like  the  wild  fawn  gazed  from  side  to  side. 

Her  jet-black  tresses  down  her  shoulder  strayed. 

Like  clustering  dates  amid  the  palm-trees'  shade.— ^.  H* 


NOTES  OV    '. '/•    MOJI.LAKAT.  375 


V.  33.  "Her  hair,  liki-  I'.  ..Ii-s  of  'latcs  clusicrini;  on  the  palm- 
tree" — ^a  fkvouiite  com]j  i^ic^  of  tlic  old  poets  of  Arabia  ;  also 
that  of  a  pretty  girl's  tr-  -  o  'lu-  l.t  iwrliLS  of  tlic  \ine  :  sec 
verses  from  the  Romance    1  ^    .  ir,  [>.  191  of  the  present  \olume. 

V.  56.  "Like  hennio.  .  •  \\  Howini;  lock?,"-  -see  v.  15  of  El- 
Busm* s  Poem  of  the  Ma*  i.-,  xsiiere  the  poet  says  tiiat  had  lie 
known  that  his  gray  hai  .-  v.  M  rej)n)a{h  him  he  would  h«ivc 
dyed  them  with  woad. —  iii-  •  i\e.->  of  the  he  an  a -tree  [/  tricsoiiia 
inermis,  also  called  the  I  /•. ;-  i  ui  privet)  are  use<l  l>y  the  women 
of  Cairo  to  stain  certain  5    1;  -  jI  tlie  hnniK  and  feet.  — /rz//^. 

V.  58.  The  commentary  <>i'  /.ui7ani  says  that  wild  heifers  are 
compared  to  bead-pearls  \^*.  \  i  ;iu  n  t)eean>e  their  exircinities  are 
black,  while  the  rest  of  il.-  'u  i>  white.  The  ony\e<?  on  the  neck 
of  a  youth  who  had  many  •■n  i^s  uji  Ih.iIi  .id'-,  of  his  family  to 
caress  and  bedeck  him  wo-  I  .  l-e  (»f  a  superior  (pialii\. 

V.  73'  The  comparison  1 1  .1  vloud  unlt.«adii.|L;  its  freii^ht  on  the 
desert  toa  merchant displ.-;  u.' .  !:i-  iic!i  o.^its,  nui>t  l>ecf)!isidered 
as  peculiarly  appropriate  i  .  a  elimate  wliere  r?in  falls  Hive  a 
blessing  on  the  parched  sod. 

V.  74,  "Early  draughi  of  in  luioiis  wine."  The  mornini; 
draught  of  wine  is  praised  . '  o\l-  ;dl  others  l»y  tlie  ancit-nt  poels. 
In  the  work  entitled  £/-.^'  ,-  'i-n.ij'ir  CMlu-  i;reen  meadow") 
Mohammed  ibn  Abi  Bckr  e.-i  <\\v\  say>  of  the  v.;,'/'..}  «>r  mornintj 
potation:  "The  poets  niak--  .n^niion  of  the  niorni.ii;  drau^lit  in 
preference  to  wine  drunk  at  oihet  time^,  hecause  in  ancient  times 
Kings  and  others  used  to  [Mctlr  driiikini;  in  the  muruini;,  and 
because  of  the  freedom  of  \\\ki  lu.ut  jt  mat  tinje  from  eare  or 
thought  of  the  obstacles  and  ealainiiit-^  of  I'mtune  ;  aKi>  beeau.-c 
those  that  arose  early  to  diinU  u.ticipale  1  those  whol)lamed 
their  wantonnesss:  for  it  is  du-  cii>«:om  y)\'  the  blaaer  to  hlame  a 
reveller  in  the  morning  for  a  hat  he  ha-,  lioiv.;  tiu^  ni^ht  before, 
because  that  is  the  time  wi.fi  he  Iiccomk^  >ul>er  and  recovers 
from  his  drunken  fit." — Lya  ' :  N'.tcs  on  LLlad's  Mo'all.  (quoted 
from  Kosegarten  :  Mo*all.  ot  'Arm  Kulth.  p.  40).— See  Tarafa, 
vv.  46  and  58;  Lebid,  vv.  00,  or  ;  and  A. /.on  Amrii,  v.  i. 


376  APPENDIX. 


THE   POEM  OF  TARAFA. 

V.  6.  The  Bedouins  feed  their  camels  with  the  leaves  of  the 
erak-tree. 

vv.  8,  9.  Lane,  in  his  "  Modern  Egyptians,'*  describing  the 
composition  of  the  black  powder,  called  kohl^  with  which 
ladies  of  Cairo  paint  the  edge  of  their  eyelids,  both  above  and 
below  the  eye,  mentions  the  powder  of  various  kinds  of  lead-ore 
(kohl  el-hagar)  as  being  employed  for  this  purpose.  He  also 
states  that  "some  women,  to  make  their  teeth  glisten,  tattoo 
their  lips."  It  would  appear  from  these  verses  that  the  Arab 
women  in  like  manner  employed  a  preparation  of  lead-ore  in 
order  to  render  their  teeth  more  sparkling  b};  contrast  with 
their  "dark-coloured  bases." 

V.  30.     El- Yemen  was  famous  for  the  production  of  red  leather. 

V.  41.  This  verse  resembles  a  couplet  in  the  song  of  Besh^eh 
son  of  Hazn  of  Nahshal,  thus  rendered  by  Mr  Lyall  in  his  "Soogs 
from  the  Hamdseh  and  Aghdnt:  '* 

If  there  should  be  among  a  thousand  but  one  of  us, 

and  men  should  call — **  Ho  !  a  knight ! "  he  would  think  that 

[they  meant  him. 
vv.  41 — ^48. 

*Tis  mine,  whene'er  the  tribes  to  glory  call, 

In  deeds  of  daring  to  outstrip  them  all. 

High  waves  the  lash  above  my  camel's  head ; 

Though  sultry  vapours  o'er  the  mountains  spread. 

Onward  she  rushes,  and  her  flowing  tail 

Floats,  like  the  dancer's  garment,  on  the  gale. 

Me  you  will  And,  or  at  the  council  board, 

Or  where  the  taverns  maddening  draughts  afford  : 

Come  in  the  morning,  and  I'll  give  a  bowl 

Shall  warm  the  prudence  of  thy  chilly  soul. 

Come  to  the  council  of  our  tribe,  and  see 

Its  brightest  honours  showered  down  on  me  : 

But,  above  all,  come  join  the  merry  ring 

Where  gay  youths  laugh  and  blooming  maidens  sing. — Ji.K* 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT  377 

vv.  48 — 51.  The  singing-girls  who  sang  at  the  drinking-parties 
of  the  ancient  Arabs  were  Greeks,  Syrians,  or  Persians.  Until 
after  EMsl&m  the  Arabs,  though  masters  of  rhythm  and  metre, 
had  no  indigenous  system  of  singing  except  the  rude  song 
(originally  of  the  camel-driver)  called  rajez.  These  girls  pro- 
bably sang  for  the  most  part  in  their  own  tongue,  and  played  the 
music  which  they  had  learned  in  Persian  'Irik  or  Syria;  but  in  the 
life  of  En-N&bigha  of  Duby&n,  as  given  in  the  AghAnt  (ix.  164), 
a  singing  girl  of  Yethrib  (afterwards  £1-Mad!na)  is  mentioned, 
who  sang  one  of  that  poet's  pieces  in  Arabic,  and  so  enabled 
him  to  detect  a  fault  of  prosody. — Lyall:  Notes  on  vv.  60,  61, 
Lebid*s  Mo'all. 

V.  49.  In  Lane's  "Modem  Egyptians,"  Ed.  i860,  p.  378,  is 
an  illustration  of  two  Ghawizee,  or  public  dancing-girls  of  Cairo, 
in  which  the  costume  exactly  corresponds  with  Tarafa's  descrip- 
tion of  the  singing-girls'  vests. 

V.  56.  This  sentiment  of  the  old  Arab  poet  finds  a  parallel  in 
the  following  verse,  from  the  Persian  of  Omar  Khayyam  : 

What  boots  it  to  repeat 
How  time  is  slipping  underneath  our  feet  ? 
Unborn  To-Morrow,  and  dead  Yesterday — 
Why  fret  about  them  if  To-Day  be  sweet? 

"  Poets  of  all  ages,"  remarks  Nott,  in  his  "  Select  Odes  of  Hafiz, " 
"and  particularly  those  who  were  voluptuaries,  urge  the  advice 
of  making  the  best  use  of  the  present  moment.  The  carpe 
diem  of  Horace  is  a  frequently-quoted  maxim." 

In  a  very  different  strain  does  a  modem  English  poet  endeavour 
to  inculcate  the  lesson  of  life  : 

Know'st  thou  Yesterday j  its  aim  and  reason  ? 

Work'st  thou  well  To-Day  for  worthy  things  ? 
Then  calmly  wait  the  Morrovi's  hidden  season. 

And  fear  not  thou  what  hap  soe'er  it  brings. 

The  great  American,  Longfellow,  too,  in  one  ofhis  beautiful  prose- 
poems  :  "  Look  not  moumfuUy  into  the  Past :  it  comes  not  back 


37S  APPENDIX. 


agaio.  Wisely  improve  the  Present :  it  is  thine.  Go  boldly  forth 
into  the  shadowy  Future,  without  fear,  and  with  a  manly  heart.' 
V.  58.  The  Arabs,  like  the  Greeks  and  the  Romans,  commonly 
drank  their  wine  diluted  with  water ;  and  only  on  extimardinaiy 
occasions  drank  the  lighter  kinds  pure,  and  the  more  heavy  wines 
mixed  with  a  very  little  water.    (See  MoW.  of  Amru,  v.  2.  and 

w.  62 — 68. 

If  Death  be  sear  me,  let  me  quaff  the  bowl, 
That  none  to-morrow  mourn  a  thirsty  soul. 
The  same  dark  mansions,  by  an  equal  fiKte, 
The  noble  spirit  and  the  mean  await ; 
Their  mother- Earth  impartial  seals  their  doom. 
And  one  broad  stone  protects  their  common  tomb. 
Death,  the  all-conquering,  seizes  on  the  bold. 
His  proudest  prey — ^then  claims  the  miser's  gold. 
Though  short  my  life,  I've  seen  the  age  of  man 
Dwindling,  still  dwindling,  in  its  narrow  span 
The  camel-riders,  when  they  loose  the  rein. 
With  firmer  grasp  the  slackened  cord  retain : 
So,  though  he  spare  them  for  a  little  space. 
Death  holds  dominion  over  all  our  race. 
Let  me  then  quaff  the  goblets  while  I  live. 
Nor  die  unconscious  of  the  joys  they  give. — Ret,  Reo. 
w.  64,  65.    Thus  Horace,  in  his  well-known  ode  (Sir  Theodore 
Martin's  translation) : 

It  recks  not  whether  thou 

Be  opulent  and  trace 
Thy  birth  from  Kings,  or  bear  upon  thy  brow 

Stamp  of  a  beggar's  race : 
In  rags  or  splendour.  Death  at  thee  alike. 
That  no  compassion  hath  for  aught  of  earth,  will  strike. 
And  our  English  poet  Young : 

What  though  we  wade  in  wealth  or  soar  in  &me? 
Earth's  highest  station  ends  in  "  Here  he  lies ! " 
And  '*  dust  to  dust "  concludes  the  noblest  song. 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT.  379 

And  the  Persian  Sa'dl :  **  When  the  pure  and  spotless  soul  is 
about  to  depart,  of  what  importance  is  it  whether  we  expire  vpon 
a  throne  or  upon  the  bare  ground  ?  *' 

THE  POEM  OF  ZOHAIR. 

*«*  The  following  Notes  are  adapted  from  those  appended  to 
Mr.  Lyall's  translation  of  this  Mo'allaqah. 

y.  2.  ''  Blue  stains  renewed/'  &c.  The  second  hemistich  of 
this  verse  gives  concisely  a  simile  for  the  water- worn  traces  of  the 
tents  which  is  found  in  a  more  expanded  form  in  Lebid's 
Mo'allaqah,  w.  8,  9,  q,v.  The  tattooing  over  the  veins  of 
the  Inner  wrist  is  said  to  be  renewed,  because  the  torrents  have 
scored  deeply  certain  of  the  trenches  dug  round  the  tents,  while 
others  that  did  not  lie  in  the  path  of  the  flood  have  become 
only  feintly  marked,  like  the  veins  beneath  the  tracery. 

v.  5.  "Canal*':  round  the  tent  a  trench  is  dug  to  receive 
the  rain  from  the  roof  and  prevent  the  water  from  flooding  the 
interior. 

y.  6.  "May  thy  morning  be  fair  and  auspicious!"  The 
morning  was  the  time  when  raids  were  made.  To  wish  peace 
m  the  morning  to  a  place  was  therefore  an  appropriate  greeting. 
[See  Antara's  Mo'all.,  v.  2.] 

V.  12.  Tassels  of  scarlet  wool  decorated  the  haudaj  in  which 
ladies  rode. 

y.  17.  The  "  Sacred  Edifice  *•  is  the  Ka'beh.  The  mention  of 
its  building  by  the  Qureysh  and  the  men  of  Jurhum  must  not 
be  understood  of  the  same  time.  Jurhum  was  the  name  of  two 
Arab  stocks :  the  first,  the  ancient  race  who  peopled  the  lower 
Hij^  and  the  Tih&meh  at  the  time  of  the  legendary  settlement 
of  Ishmael  among  them,  with  whom  he  is  said  to  have  inter- 
married ;  the  second  (whom  M.  de  Perceval  regards  as  alone 
having  had  a  historical  existence),  a  tribe  who  ruled  in  Mekkeh 
from  about  70  B.c.  to  2cx>  a.d.  They  were  expelled  from 
Mekkeh  and  dispersed  so  that  no  memorial  of  them  remained  by  an 


38o  APPENDIX, 


r. 


Azdite  stock  from  el- Yemen,  called  the  Khuz&*ah.  (C.  de  Per- 
ceval, Essait  i.>  218.  Aghftnt,  xiii,  108-111.)  The  second  Jnr- 
hum  are  said  (Agh.  id,  p.  109)  to  have  rebuilt  the  Ka^beh  on  the 
foundations  laid  by  Abraham  after  it  had  been  overthrown  hj  a 
flood  :  the  architect  was  one  'Omar  el-Jiriid,  whose  descendants 
were  known  as  ih^Jedarah^  or  masons.  The  Qureysh  settled  in 
Mekkeh  during  its  occupation  by  the  Khuza'ah,  and  gained  pos- 
session of  the  Ka*beh  in  the  time  of  Qusayy,  whose  mother  was 
of  the  race  of  the  Jedarah,  about  440,  a.d.  (C.  de  Perceval.) 
Qusayy,  in  the  year  450  A.D.  or  thereabout,  caused  the  building 
erected  by  the  Jurhum  to  be  demolished,  and  rebuilt  the  Ka'beh 
on  a  grander  scale.  It  was  rebuilt  a  third  time  in  the  year  605 
A.  D. ,  very  shortly  before  the  Mo  'allaqah  was  composed.  Moham- 
med, then  thirty-five  years  old,  assisted  in  the  work.  These 
three  occasions  are  probably  those  to  which  Zuhayr  refers. 

'*  Make  devout  processions  " :  the  tawdf^  or  going  round  seven 
times,  was  one  of  the  most  ancient  rites  of  the  religion  of  the 
Arabs ;  it  was  the  mode  of  worship  used  not  only  for  the  Ka'befa, 
but  also  for  the  other  objects  of  reverence  among  the  pagan 
Arabs  :  see  Lane,  s,v,  Duwdr, 

v.  19.    The  literal  translation  of  this  verse  is — 

Ye  two  repaired  the  condition  of  'Abs  and  Dubyin  (by  peace), 

[after  that 
they  had  shared  one  with  another  in  destruction,  and  had  brayed 

[between  them  the  perfume  of  Menshim. 

The  second  hemistich  is  said  to  refer  to  a  custom  which  existed 
among  the  Arabs  of  plunging  their  hands  into  a  bowl  of  perfume 
as  they  took  an  oath  together  to  fight  for  a  cause  until  the  last  of 
them  was  slain.  Menshim,  the  commentators  say,  was  a  woman 
in  Mekkeh  who  sold  perfume.  Such  an  oath  was  followed  by 
war  to  the  bitter  end;  and  so  "he  brayed  the  perfume  of 
Menshim  "  became  a  proverb  for  entering  on  deadly  strife. 

v.  22.  Ma 'add  was  the  forefather  of  all  those  Arabs  (generally 
called  musta*rib£h^  or  insititious)  who  traced  their  descent  from 
'Adnan,  whose  son  he  was.    [See  Genealc^cal  Table  prefixed 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT.  381 

to  the  Mo'allaqat  in  this  volume.]  The  name  is  thus  used  to 
denote  the  Central  stocks  settled  for  the  most  part  in  Nejd  and 
El-Hijftz,  as  opposed  to  the  Arabs  of  £1- Yemen  or  of  Yemenic 
origin  by  whom  they  were  bordered  on  the  north  and  south. 

V.  29.     War,  tUHarby  is  feminine  in  Arabic. 

V.  3 1 .  The  comparison  of  War  to  a  mill  and  the  slain  toground 
grain  is  common  in  the  old  poetry.  [See  vv.  31,  32,  Poem  of 
Amru,  and  Note,'\ 

V.  32.  [ "  Deformed  as  the  dun  camel  of  Aad : "  see  notes  on  w. 
II  and  22  of  the  '*Lay  of  the  Himyarites,"  pp.  351-354  of  the 
present  volume.  Some  of  the  genealogists  say  that  ThamtLd 
was  a  cousin  of  'Ad,  and  after  the  destruction  of  the  ancient  race 
of  'Ad,  the  people  of  Thamtld  inherited  their  possessions  and 
were  called  "the  latter  'Ad,"  which  would  account  for  Zuhayr's 
sajring  "camel  of  'Ad"  instead  of  "camel  of  ThamtLd."] 

V.  30.  This  verse  appears  to  refer  to  the  breaking  out  again  of 
strife  which  followed  the  deed  of  Hoseyn.  The  camels  are  the 
warriors,  and  the  pools  the  pools  of  death.  The  image  seems 
intended  to  figure  the  senselessness  of  the  strife  and  its  want  of 
object  and  aim. 

V.  37.  The  grazing  on  pernicious  and  noxious  weeds  is  the 
brooding  over  wrong  in  the  intervals  of  combat.  Thus  Qeys  son 
of  Zuhayr  [the  Prince  Cais  of  the  Romance  of  Antar]  says,  of  the 
bitter  results  of  wrong  in  this  same  War  of  Dahts  (Ham&seh 
p.  210,  Aghdnt^  xvi,  32) — 

But  the  stout  warrior  Hamal  son  of  Bedr 
wrought  wrong ;  and  wrong  is  a  surfeiting  pasturage. 

[£1-Bus!ri,  in  v.  27  of  hb  Mantle  Poem,  employs  the  same 
phrase,  with  reference  to  impure  thoughts:  "If  Desire  find 
the  pasturage  sweet  to  its  taste,  leave  it  not  to  pasture."] 

V.  47.  Among  the  Arabs,  when  two  parties  of  men  met,  if  they 
meant  peace,  they  turned  towards  each  other  the  feet  of  their 
spears ;  if  they  meant  war,  they  turned  towards  each  other  the 
points. 


382  APPENDIX. 


^S'\ 


V.  53.    The  "  dstera  **  (haud)  is  a  man's  home  and  fionily. 

V.  56.  Zuhayr  was  eighty  years  old  when  he  composed  his 
Mo'allaqah — 608  or  610  A.D.,  according  to  M.  de  PercevaL 

V.  57.  Mr.  L3ra]l's  note  on  this  verse  will  be  better  understood 
if  read  with  his  own  rendering  of  the  passage — ^v.  49  of  his  text : 

I  have  seen  the  Dooms  trample  men  as  a  blind  beast  at  random 

[treads 
— whom  they  smote,  he  died ;  whom  they  missed,  he  lived  on 

[to  strengthless  eld. 

**  Blind  beast  **  {^ashwA) ;  literally  "  a  weak-eyedshe-camd  " — 
pae  that  sees  not  well  where  she  is  going,  and  therefore  strikes 
everything  with  her  forefeet,  not  paying  atteJoSon  to  the  2^^^^ 
where  she  sets  down  her  feet. — Lane.  The  word  is  used  pro- 
verbially: you  say,  Rekiba  fuldnuni'l'^ashwd^  "such  a  one  rides 
the  weak-eyed  she-camel,"  that  is,  he  prosecutes  his  afiPair  without 
due  deliberation;  and  Khabata Khabta'l'^<uhw&^  "he  trod  with 
the  careless  tread  of  a  weak-eyed  she-camel'* — ^he  acted  at 
random. 

vv.  47-64.  The  different  order  in  which  these  maxims  occur  in 
different  recensions  of  the  poem,  and  the  fact  that  some  recensions 
omit  several  of  them  which  others  supply,  make  it  doubtful,  Mr. 
Lyall  thinks,  whether  they  properly  belong  to  the  Mo^aqah. 
"  No  other  poem  of  those  by  Zuhayr  that  remain  has  the  same 
metre  and  rhyme  as  his  Mo'allaqah,  and  it  is  most  likely  that 
fragments  of  other  poems,  now  lost,  in  this  measure  and  rhyme, 
that  have  survived  have  been  included  in  it,  because  there  was 
no  other  piece  into  which  they  could  be  put." — In  Mr.  Lyall's 
text  these  maxims  are  placed  in  a  very  different  order  from  that 
in  wliich  they  stand  in  Sir  William  Jones'  translation. 


THE     POEM     OF     LEBEID. 

Thk  beautiful  elegiac  verses  with  which  this  masterpiece 
of  .'Hi.ient  Arabic  poetry  opens  have  been  compared,  by 
Dr.  (  .ilyle,  to  Goldsmith's  Deserted  Village.     "  But  the  Axabb" 


/ 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT  3«3 


remarks  Burton,  "  with  equal  simplicity  and  pathos,  has  a  fire, 
a  force  of  language,  and  a  depth  of  feeling,  which  the  Irishman, 
admirable  as  his  verse  is,  could  never  rivaL'*  {Pligrinu^e^ 
vol.  iii.,  p.  54.)  Carlyle*s  translation,  as  follows,  of  these 
verses,  however  inadequately  it  may  represent  the  beauties 
of  the  original,  can  hardly  fail  of  pleasing  the  English  reader, 
from  the  grace  and  smoothness  of  the  rhythm  : 

Those  dear  abodes  which  once  contained  the  fair 

Amidst  Mitata's  wilds  I  seek  in  vain ; 
Nor  towers,  nor  tents,  nor  cottages  are  there. 

But  scattered  ruins  and  a  silent  plain  I 

The  proud  canals  that  once  Rayana  graced. 
Their  course  neglected  and  their  waters  gone. 

Among  the  levelled  sands  are  dimly  traced. 
Like  moss-grown  letters  on  a  mouldering  stone. 

Rayana,  say,  how  many  a  tedious  year 
Its  hallowed  circle  o'er  our  heads  hath  rolled. 

Since  to  my  vows  thy  tender  maids  gave  ear. 
And  fondly  listened  to  the  tale  I  told  ? 

How  oft,  since  then,  the  star  of  spring,  that  pours 
A  never-failing  stream,  hath  drenched  thy  head  ? 

How  oft,  the  summer-cloud,  in  copious  showers, 
Or  gentle  drops,  its  genial  influence  shed  ? 

How  oft,  since  then,  the  hovering  mist  of  mom 
Hath  caused  thy  locks  with  glittering  gems  to  glow  ? 

How  oft  hath  eve  her  dewy  treasures  borne 
To  fall  responsive  to  the  breeze  below  ? 

The  matted  thistles,  bending  to  the  gale. 
Now  clothe  those  meadows  once  with  verdure  gay  ; 

Amidst  the  windings  of  that  lonely  vale 
The  teeming  antelope  and  ostrich  stray : 


384  APPENDIX. 


The  large-eyed  mother  of  the  herd,  that  flies 
Man's  noisy  haunts,  here  finds  a  sare  retreat, 

Here  watches  o'er  her  young,  till  age  supplies 
Strength  to  their  limbs  and  swiftness  to  their  feet 

Save  where  the  swelling  stream  hath  swept  those  walls 
And  given  their  deep  foundations  to  the  light 

(As  the  retouching  pencil  that  recalls 
A  long-lost  picture  to  the  raptured  sight) ; — 

Save  where  the  rains  have  washed  the  gathered  sand, 
And  bared  the  scanty  fragments  to  our  view 

(As  the  dust  sprinkled  on  a  punctured  hand 
Bids  the  faint  tints  resume  their  azure  hue) ; — 

No  mossy  record  of  those  once-loved  seats 
Points  out  the  mansion  to  inquiring  eyes  : 

No  tottering  wall,  in  echoing  sounds,  repeats 
Our  mournful  questions  and  our  bursting  sighs. 

Vet,  midst  those  ruined  heaps,  that  naked  plain. 
Can  faithful  memory  former  scenes  restore — 

Recall  the  busy  throng,  the  jocund  train, 
And  picture  all  that  charmed  us  there  before. 

Ne'er  shall  my  heart  the  fatal  mom  forget 
That  bore  the  fair  ones  from  these  seats  so  dear — 

I  see — I  see  the  crowding  litters  yet, 
And  yet  the  tent-poles  rattle  in  my  ear. 

I  see  the  maids  with  timid  steps  ascend. 
The  streamers  wave  in  all  their  painted  pride, 

The  floating  curtains  every  fold  extend. 
And  vainly  strive  the  charms  within  to  hide. 

What  graceful  forms  those  envious  folds  enclose ! 

What  melting  glances  through  those  curtains  play ! 
Sure  Weira's  antelopes  or  Tudah's  roes 

Through  yonder  veils  their  sportive  jroong  survey ! 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT  385 


The  band  moved  on — to  trace  their  steps  I  strove  ; 

I  saw  them  urge  the  camels'  hastening  flight, 
Till  the  white  vapour,  like  a  rising  grove, 

Snatched  them  for  ever  from  my  aching  sight ! 

Nor  since  that  mom  have  I  Nawara  seen — 
The  bands  are  burst  which  held  us  once  so  fast : 

Memory  but  tells  me  that  such  things  have  been, 
And  sad  Reflection  adds,  that  they  are  past ! 

This  is  Mr,  Lyall's  rendering  of  the  same  passage,  from  his 
translation  of  Lebid's  Mo'allaqah,  previously  mentioned  : 

1.  Effaced  are  her  resting-places — where  she  stayed  but  a  while 

and  where  she  dwelt  long 
in  Mina  :  desolate  are  her  camps  in  Ghaul  and  er-Rijd.m, 

2.  And  by  the  torrents  of  er-Rayyan  :    the  traces  thereof  are 

laid  bare 
and  old  and  worn,  as  the  rocks  still  keep  their  graving  : 

3.  Tent-traces  over  which  have  passed,  since  the  time  that  one 

dwelt  there, 
long  years,  with  their  rolling  months  of  war  and  peace. 

4.  The  showers  of  the  signs  of  Spring  have  fallen  on  them,  and* 

there  have  swept 
over  them  the  rains  of  the  thundering  clouds,  torrents  and 
drizzle  both — 

5.  The  clouds  that  came  by  night,  those  of  the  morning  that  hid 

the  sky, 
and   the    clouds    of  even-tide,    with   their  antiphons   of 
thunder ; 

6.  There  have  sprung  up  over  them  the  shoots  of  the  rocket, 

and  in  the  sides 
of  the  valley  the  deer  and  the  ostriches  rear  their  young  ; 

7.  The  large-eyed  wild-kine  lie  down  there  by  their  young  ones 

just  bom,  and  their  calves  roam  in  herds  over  the  plain. 

2  B 


386  APPENDIX, 


8.  The  torrents  have  scored  afresh  the  traces  of  the  tents,  as 

though 
they  were  lines  of  writing  in  a  book  which  the  pens  make 
new  again, 

9.  Or  the  tracery  which  a  woman  draws  afresh  as  she  sprinkles 

the  bhie 
over  the  rings,  and  the  lines  shine  forth  anew  thereon. 

10.  And  I  stood  there  asking  them  for  tidings — and  wherefore 

did  I  ask 
aught  of  deaf  stones  that  have  no  voice  to  answer  ? 

11.  Bare  was  the  place  where  the  whole  tribe  had  rested  :  they 

passed  away 
therefrom  at  dawn,  leaving  behind  them  the  tent-trenches 
and  the  thatch. 

12.  The  camel-litters  of  the  tribe  stirred  thy  longing,  what  time 

they  moved  away 
and  crept  into  the  litters  hung  with  cotton,  as  the  wooden 
framework  creaked — 

13.  The  litters  hung  all  round,  over  their  frame  of  wood, 

with  hangings,  thin  veils  and  pictured  curtains  of  wool. 

14.  They  began  their  journey  in  bands,  wide-eyed  as  the  wild- 

cows  of  Tddih, 
or  deer  of  Wejrah  as  they  watch  their  fawns  lying  around. 

15.  They  were  started  on  their  way,  and  the  sun-mist  fell  off 

them,  as  though 
they  were  low  rocky  ridges  of  Bisheh,  its  tamarisks,  and  its 
boulders. 

16.  Nay — why  dost  thou  dwell  on  the  thought  of  Nawar?  for 

she  is  gone, 
and  severed  is  all  that  bound  her  to  thee,  whether  strong 
or  weak. 


*^j*  The  subjoined  notes  on  Lebid's  Poem  are,  for  the  most 
part,  adapted  from  those  appended  to  Mr.  Lyall's  translation. 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT  387 


w.  I,  2.  Minia  [Mina],  a  place  in  Dariyyeh,  a  province 
of  Ncjd,  on  the  route  from  Mecca  to  el- Basrah.  There  is  a 
valley  of  the  same  name  near  Mecca.  Ghaul,  er-Rij&m,  and 
er-Rayyan,  hills  in  the  neighbourhood.  [Captain  Burton 
renders  these  couplets  as  follows : 

Deserted  is  the  village — waste  the  halting-place  and  home 
At  Mina,  o*er  Rijam  and  Ghul  wild  beasts  unheeded  roam  ; 
On  Rayyan  hill  the  channel  lines  have  left  a  naked  trace, 
Time-worn,  as  primal  wrU  that  dints  the  ntountaifCs  flinty  fact, 

"This  passage,"  he  remarks  in  a  foot-note,  **made  me  suspect 
that  inscriptions  would  be  found  among  the  rocks,  as  the 
scholiast  informs  us  that  'men  used  to  write  upon  rocks  in 
order  that  their  writing  might  remain.'  (I)e  Sacy's  Moallaka 
de  Lebid,  p.  289.)  I  neither  saw  nor  heard  of  any.  But  some 
months  afterwards  I  was  delighted  to  hear  from  the  Abbe 
Hamilton  that  he  had  discovered  in  one  of  the  rock-monuments 
a  'lithographed  proof*  of  the  presence  of  Sesostres  (Rhameses 
11.)." — Pilgrimage^  vol.  iii.,  pp.  136,  137.] 

v.  3.  •*  Many  a  month,  holy  and  unhallowed."  Four  months 
of  the  year — the  first,  Muharrem  ;  the  seventh,  Rejeb ;  the 
eleventh,  Dhulkaadi ;  and  the  twelfth,  DhtUhajjS — were 
esteemed  sacred  in  Arabia  from  the  oldest  times ;  and,  ex- 
cepting by  one  or  two  tribes,  were  so  religiously  obser\'ed, 
that  if  a  man  met  during  that  time  the  murderer  of  his  father, 
he  durst  not  offer  him  any  \'iolence.  The  history  or  traditions 
of  the  old  Arabs  do  not  mention  above  six  transgressions  of  this 
law  ;  and  these  are  styled  **  impious  wars." — Richardson, 

w.  4,  5.  •*  The  rainy  constellations  of  Spring  :  "  marAbtu-n- 
nujUm,  MirbSC  is  rain  that  comes  in  the  beginning  of  the  season 
called  Rabt''  or  Spring ;  en-Nuj^m  are  the  constellations  called 
anwd\  that  is,  the  twenty-eight  Mansions  of  the  Moon,  which, 
by  their  rising  or  setting  at  dawn,  were  supposed  to  bring  rain 
or  wind,  heat  or  cold. — Lane.  Rabt*'  is  not  strictly  Spring  ;  for 
it  includes  the  whole  time  from  September  to  March,  during 
which  rain  falls  in  Arabia  :  it  is  that  season  when  the  pastures 


388  APPENDIX, 


are  fresh  and  grazing  abundant.  The  commentator  on  verse  5 
divides  the  year  into  three  seasons,  viz.,  Shitd\  RaM^^  and  Seyf^ 
or  Winter,  Spring,  and  Summer;  and  he  says  that  in  the 
different  words  used  for  clouds  in  verse  5  the  rains  of  the  whole 
year  are  described :  those  of  Winter  fall  generally  by  night, 
those  of  spring  in  the  morning,  and  those  of  Summer  in  the 
evening. 

V.  8.  The  comparison  of  the  almost  efiaced  traces  of  a  spring 
encampment,  washed  by  the  rain  and  worn  by  the  winds,  to  lines 
of  writing  which  have  faded  by  long  use  is  common  in  old 
Arabic  poetry.  Zuheyr  says  (the  lines  are  quoted  in  the  notice 
of  him  in  the  Agh&ni) — 

Worn  are  they  :  thou  wouldst  think  their  lines 

over  which  two  years  have  passed  were  a  parchment  old 
and  faded. 

From  this  it  is  evident  that  writing  and  books  were  not  so  strange 
to  the  Arabs  of  the  time  immediately  preceding  el-Islim  as  has 
sometimes  been  asserted. 

V.  9.  The  reference  here  is  to  the  weshm  or  tracery  pricked  into 
the  skin  of  a  woman's  hands  and  arms.  The  pattern  is  pricked 
out  with  a  needle,  and  there  is  sprinkled  over  the  skin  and 
rubbed  into  it  a  preparation  called  na^^r,  which  may  either  mean 
powdered  indigo  or  powdered  lamp-black.  As  the  rains  which 
deepened  and  broadened  the  traces  of  the  tents  are  in  v.  8  com- 
pared to  a  writer  who  goes  over  lines  of  writing  again  with  a  pen, 
so  in  V.  9  they  are  likened  to  a  woman  who  renews  the  tattooing 
by  sprinkling  fresh  pigment  over  the  old  lines;  which  being 
rubbed  in,  the  lines  appear  afresh.  [Lane  ("  Modem  Egyptians  '*) 
states  that  the  females  of  the  lower  orders  in  Cairo  tattoo  upon 
the  face,  front  of  the  chin,  back  of  right  hand,  and  arms.  The 
operation  is  generally  performed  at  the  age  of  about  five  or  six 
years,  by  gipsy  women.] 

V.  1 1.  ["  Canals "  see  note  on  v.  5,  Zuheyr*s  Mo'all.] 
"ThumSLm,"  i>.  panic  grass.  Forskal  (p.  20)  says  that  the 
name  is  used  for  Panicum  Dichotomum  ;  but  it  is  applied  by  the 


/ 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT  389 


Arabs  to  many  species  of  panicum.  The  grass  is  used  for 
thatching  and  for  stuffing  holes  in  the  tents  so  as  to  keep  out  the 
weather. 

V.  12.  **  Hid  themselves  in  carriages  "  :  the  word  used 
(takannus)  is  appropriate  to  the  action  of  a  hare  or  a  fox 
creeping  into  its  hole  (kinds). 

V.  14.  "Roes  of  Wegera"  (Wejrah) :  see  note  on  v.  31, 
Amriolkais. 

V.  15.  Beisha  (B!sheh)  is  the  name  of  a  valley  in  el- Yemen 
which  is  thickly  populated ;  also  of  a  village  in  Tihameh  :  so 
the  Mardsid ;  the  commentary  says  that  it  is  a  valley  on  the  road 
to  el-Yem&meh.  The  long  line  of  camels  with  their  litters  in 
which  the  ladies  ride  is  compared  to  the  ridges  of  rock  of  this 
valley  in  the  part  where  its  ridges  are  low  and  sink  into  the 
plain.  These,  in  the  noon-tide,  stand  out  from  the  midst  of 
the  mirage,  with  their  rocks  and  tamarisks  [athly  Tamarix  Orien- 
tails),  even  as  the  tall  camel-litters  make  their  way  through  the 
mists  of  mom  which  cling  round  them  like  a  skirt. 

[The  vapour  here  alluded  to,  called  by  the  Arabians  Serab^ 
is  not  unlike  in  appearance  (and  probably  proceeding  from  a 
similar  cause)  to  those  white  mists  which  we  often  see  hovering 
over  the  surface  of  a  river  in  a  summer's  evening  after  a  hot 
day.  They  are  very  frequent  in  the  sultry  plains  of  Arabia, 
and,  when  seen  at  a  distance,  resemble  an  expanded  lake ; 
but  upon  a  nearer  approach,  the  thirsty  traveller  perceives  the 
deception.  Hence  the  Serab  in  Arabian  poetry  is  a  common 
emblem  of  disappointed  expectation. — CarlyieJ] 

V.  23.  **  The  thong  of  her  shoe  is  broken :  "  camels  frequently 
have  their  soft  feet  protected  by  a  leather  shoe,  which  is  tied  by 
a  strap  round  the  pastern.  [See  Mr.  Redhouse's  translation  of 
Ka*b*s  Poem  of  the  Mantle,  v.  27.] 

V.  43.     Mr.  Lyall  renders  this  couplet : 

And  she  shone  in  the  face  of  the  mirk  with  a  white  glimmering 
light 
like  a  pearl  born  in  a  sea-shell  that  has  dropped  from  its 
siring, 


390  APPENDIX, 


The  restless  roaming  of  the  cow  is  compared  to  the  pearl 
rolling  about  on  the  ground. 

V.  50.  "Javelins  made  by  the  skilful  hand  of  Samhar.** 
According  to  the  commentary  and  other  authorities  quoted  by 
Lane,  Semhar  was  the  name  of  a  famous  maker  of  spears,  who 
dwelt  in  the  town  of  el-Khatt,  in  el-Bahreyn,  where  the  best 
bamboos  from  India  were  landed  and  fashioned  into  lances, 
which  are  thence  frequently  called  khattiy,  [See  Amru,  v.  40 : 
"our  dark  javelins,  exquisitely  wrought  of  Khathaian  reeds;" 
also  El-Busirl,  v.  130 :  "brown  lances  of  Khatt."]  Semhar  is 
said  to  have  been  the  husband  of  Kudeyneh,  who  also  used  to 
straighten  spears.  ["Spears  of  Khatt,"  and  "  Rudeyhnian 
lances  "  are  often  mentioned  in  the  Romance  of  Antar.]  Other 
authorities  say  that  Semhar  was  the  name  of  a  town  in  Abyssinia, 
where  good  spears  were  made. 

w.  57-61.  Sir  \V.  Jones  gives  the  following  imitation  of  these 
verses  in  his  "  Essay  on  the  Poetry  of  Eastern  Nations  "  : 

But  ah  !  thou  know'st  not  in  what  youthful  play 
Our  nights,  beguiled  with  pleasure,  swam  away  : 
Gay  songs  and  cheerful  tales  deceived  the  time, 
And  circling  goblets  made  a  tuneful  chime. 
Sweet  was  the  draught,  and  sweet  the  blooming  maid, 
Who  touched  her  lyre  beneath  the  fragrant  shade. 
\Vc  sipped  till  morning  purpled  every  plain. 
The  damsels  slumbered,  but  we  sipped  again. 
The  waking  birds,  that  sung  on  every  tree, 
Their  early  notes  were  not  so  blithe  as  we. 

V.  58.  "The  flag  of  the  wine-merchant."  Wine-shops  were 
distinguished  by  flags  hung  outside  of  them  :  when  the  wine 
was  all  sold,  or  the  shop  was  closed,  the  flag  was  taken  down. 
[See  Antara's  Mo*all.,  v.  54.]  In  this  verse  and  the  next  Lebld 
vaunts  his  liberality  in  buying  wine  for  hb  fellows  when  it  was 
at  its  dearest. 

vv,  60,  61.  Morning  draught :  singing-girls — see  Amriolkais, 
v.  74 ;  Tarafa,  vv.  46,  48-51  ;  Amru,  v.  I,  and  Notes, 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT.  391 


V.  63.  **  A  swift  horse,  whose  girths  resemble  my  sash  adorned 
with  gems."  Mr.  Lyall  translates  this  hemistich:  **a  swift 
mare,  my  girdle  its  reins  as  I  went  forth  at  dawn  ;  "  and  explains 
that  the  poet  "threw  the  bridle  over  his  shoulders  so  that  it 
became  a  girdle  to  him,  in  order  that  he  might  have  his  hands 
free  for  his  weapons." 

V.  70-72.  In  these  verses  the  poet  refers  to  the  controvcrby 
which  took  place  between  himself  and  er-Rabi'  son  of  Ziya<l 
at  the  court  of  en-No'man  son  of  el-Miinzir,  kini;  of  el-IIireh. 
(See  the  Argument  prefixed  to  translation  of  Lebid's  Poem  in 
this  volume.) 

V.  73.  The  custom  of  the  Arabs  in  gambling  with  arrows  was 
to  require  those  who  lost  to  pay  for  the  camel  which  was  the 
prize  of  those  who  won  :  Lebid's  liberality  consisted  in  his 
furnishing  the  prize  himself  from  his  herds,  and  thus  those  who 
lost  had  not  to  pay. 

V.  74.  A  barren  camel,  says  the  commentary,  is  the  fattest, 
while  one  with  young  is  the  most  delicate  of  fle>h. 

V.  76.  *' A  camel  doomed  to  die  at  her  master's  tomb."  It 
was  customary  among  the  pagan  Arabs  when  a  warrior  died,  to* 
tie  his  camel  near  his  grave,  where  she  was  left  to  perish  of 
hunger  and  thirst  in  order  that  she  should  accomi)any  him  to 
the  next  world,  and  that  he  should  ride  on  her  at  the  Kourrec- 
tion  :  to  go  on  foot  on  that  occasion  was  con^idcrcd  very 
disgraceful. 

v.  ^,  *'An  enlivening  Spring."  As  the  season  of  Spring 
was  the  pleasantest  of  the  year,  rich  with  fertilizing  rains  and 
green  pasture,  so  men  of  bountiful  and  kindly  nature  were 
likewise  called  by  that  name.  Lebid's  o\sn  nilhcr  KrJn^ah,  as 
the  Aghdnt  informs  us,  was  known  as  Ralii\it-d-MoUar7  in — 
"a  spring  for  those  who  came  to  seek  his  bounty."  [See  v.  77, 
Hareth's  Mo*all.,  where  a  certain  chief  is  styled  "a  vernal 
season  of  beneficence. "] 

(**  The  year  of  widowhood."    A  commentatt)r  says  that  in  the     ]  D^* 

time  of  Ignorance  it  was  the  custom  for  widows,  on  the  death  of    /     '""•    ' 


pH<^ 


392  APPENDIX. 


L  their  husbands,  to  undergo  a  period  of  separation  {^*'iddeh\ 
■extending  to  one  year.  During  this  period  they  could  not 
ttmarry  again,  nor  go  forth  from  their  houses,  and  were  thus 
^'disconsolate." 


THE   POEM   OF   ANTARA. 


*  » 

* 


The  learned  Von  Hammer-Purgstall  says  that  Antara*s 
Mo'allaqah  is  contained  twice  in  the  complete  copies  of  the 
Romance  of  Antar:  once  in  fragments,  as  the  hero  delivers  them 
extempore  on  divers  occasions  in  the  ardour  of  the  moment,  in 
praise  of  his  darling  Abla,  of  his  matchless  horse,  of  his  irresist- 
ible sword  and  spear,  &c. ;  and  again  on  the  occasion  of  the  poetic 
contest  before  the  assembly  of  the  tribes  at  Okatz,  when  the  poet 
united  the  hitherto  scattered  pearls  of  his  genius  by  a  golden 
thread  and  suspended  them  on  the  Ka*beh. 

vv.  1, 2.  Hamilton's  rendering  of  the  opening  verses  of  Antara's 
Mo'allaqah  are  given  on  page  264  of  the  present  volume. 
This  is  how  Professor  E.  H.  Palmer  has  turned  the  same  into 

• 

English  verse,  in  his  translation  entitled,  "An  Ancient  Arabic 
Prize  Poem": 

Have  then  the  Poets  left  a  theme  unsung  ? 
Dost  thou,  then,  recognise  thy  love's  abode  ? 
Home  of  my  Abla  !  dear  for  her  sake  ! 
Would  that  thy  stones,  Jewa  could  speak  to  me ! 

According  to  the  Romance  of  Antar,  Abla  was  in  Arabian 
'Irak  when,  on  the  hero's  return  home  from  the  land  of  Zebeid, 
he  beheld  her  deserted  dwelling,  and,  leaning  sadly  upon  his 
spear,  gave  vent  to  his  feelings  in  these  two  couplets. 

vv.  13-19.  There  is  a  charm  in  Professor  Palmer's  graceful 
metrical  rendering  of  this  beautiful  passage  which  is  not  to  be 
expected  in  a  literal  translation: 

*Twas  then  her  beauties  first  enslaved  my  heart — 
Those  glittering  pearls  and  ruby  lips,  whose  kiss 
Was  sweeter  far  than  honey  to  the  taste. 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAJCAT,  393 


As  when  the  merchant  opes  a  precious  box 
Of  perfume,  such  an  odour  from  her  breath 
Came  towards  thee,  harbinger  of  her  approach ; 
Or  like  an  untouched  meadow,  where  the  rain 
Hath  fallen  freshly  on  the  fragrant  herbs 
That  carpet  all  its  pure  untrodden  soil : 
A  meadow  where  the  frequent  rain-drops  fall 
Like  coins  of  silver  in  the  quiet  pools, 
And  irrigate  it  with  perpetual  streams  ; 
A  meadow  where  the  sportive  insects  hum, 
Like  listless  topers  singing  o'er  their  cups. 
And  ply  their  fore-legs,  like  a  man  who  tries 
With  maimed  hand  to  use  the  flint  and  steel. 

vv.  22-25. 

ril  choose  a  camel  of  surpassing  speed, 
Patient  of  thirst,  from  Shaden's  generous  breed  : 
Proudly  she'll  bear  me  to  my  fair  one*s  home. 
Nor  stay  her  vigorous  strides  though  evening  come. 
Proud  as  the  earless  ostrich,  and  as  fleet, 
Who  strikes  the  sands  with  many-sounding  feet. 
While  round  her  steps  the  gathering  brood  rejoice. 
Like  thirsty  camels  at  their  keeper's  voice. — AW.  /^€v, 

V,  27.  It  seems  somewhat  odd  that  the  poet  should  compare 
an  ostrich  to  a  slave  dressed  in  a  iong^  fur  garment,  yet  such  is 
the  sense  of  the  original,  which  Mr.  Redhouse  renders  as  follows: 

"Of  a  small-headed  [male  ostrich]  that  \nsits  his  [female's] 
eggs  at  Dhri-'l-*ushayra,  like  the  slave  in  a  long  furred  garment, 
whose  ears  [and  nose]  are  close  cut  oflf." 

Mr.  Redhouse  remarks  that  **  we  can  only  conjecture  why  the 
poet  likened  the  ostrich's  feathers  to  a  long  fur  garment.  Slaves 
were  then  negroes;  and  perhaps,  being  from  Africa  and  sensi- 
tive to  cold,  wore  furs  (of  sheepskin  ?).  The  exact  length 
understood  by  the  poet's  *  long '  would  depend  on  the  kind  of 
fur  jacket,  or  robe,  worn  by  slaves  in  the  desert  camps. 
Twenty  inches  is  long  where  twelve  is  usual." 


394  APPENDIX. 


V.  42.  The  comparison  in  the  second  hemistich  is  thus  ren- 
dered by  Professor  Palmer : 

Where'er  descending  falls  my  flashing  blade, 
Low  lies  the  husband  of  some  noble  dame, 
And  like  the  whistling  of  a  cloven  lip, 
The  life-blood  gurgles  from  his  ghastly  wound, 
And  sparkles  round  him  in  a  crimson  shower. 

V.  54.  "  Skilful  in  casting  lots" :  see  Tarafa's  Mo*all.,  v.  102, 
and  Lebld's  Mo'all.,  vv.  73,  74,  and  Note, — The  arrows  used 
for  casting  lots  were  without  heads  and  feathers,  like  those 
employed  in  divination. 

"Causing  the  wine-merchant  to  strike  his  flag":  see  note 
on  V.  58,  Lebld's  Mo'all. 

vv.  60 — 62.  In  Professor  Palmer's  translation  the  little 
maiden  whom  the  Poet  sends  to  bring  him  news  of  his  "sweet 
lamb "   is  represented  as  saying  on  her  return  : 

I  saw  the  foemen  lulled  by  treacherous  ease. 
And  whoso  wills  it  his  that  lamb  shall  be. 
Her  neck  is  comelier  than  the  graceful  fawn's. 
Her  form  is  fairer  than  the  young  gazelle's  ! 

According  to  Sir  William  Jones'  rendering,  the  girl  simply 
informs  Antara  that  she  found  **the  hostile  guards  negligent  of 
their  watch,"  g.nd  that  the  lady  might  therefore  be  easily  visited; 
and  we  are  to  suppose  that  Antara,  on  thus  learning  that 
"  the  coast  was  clear,"  so  to  say,  at  once  proceeded  to  visit  the 
lady,  who,  on  seeing  him,  "turned  towards  him  with  the  neck  of 
a  young  roe." — Mr  Redhouse  thinks  that  "  the  variant  positions 
which  these  verses  occupy  in  different  editions  make  it  almost 
impossible  to  judge  whether  his  sweetheart  turned  to  Antara,  or 
to  the  maiden  sent.  The  words  read  as  though  the  maid  tamed 
to  Antara;  but  that  is  not  the  probable  sense." — The  Bedouin 
coxcomb  Amarah,  in  the  Romance  of  Antar,  sends  a  female  slave 
on  a  similar  errand — to  bring  him  an  account  of  Abla's  personal 
charms:  see  page  209  of  the  present  volume. 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT.  395 

V.  70.  **  Make  the  perched  birds  of  the  brain  fly  quickly  from 
every  skull."  Among  the  old  Arabs  the  belief  was  prevalent 
that  of  the  blood  near  a  dead  person's  brain  was  formed  a  bird, 
called  Hamah  (Carlyle  calls  it  Manahy  but  this  was  the  name  of 
a  stone-idol  worshipped  by  the  pagan  Arabs),  that  sat  upon  the 
grave  of  the  deceased,  and  uttered  doleful  cries.  This  seems 
alluded  to  in  Job,  xxi.,  32,  which  Carlyle  thus  translates  : 

He  shall  be  brought  to  the  grave. 

And  shall  watch  upofi  the  raised-up  heap. 

Others  say  that  the  soul  of  a  man  who  was  murdered  or  slain 
in  battle  animated  this  bird  and  continually  cried,  Osciinil 
Osdlnil — "give  me  to  drink,"  i,  e.  of  the  slayer's  blood. 

vv.  72 — 77. 

**  On  !  Antar,  on! "  the  exulting  warriors  cry — 

'Gainst  my  black  steed  a  thousand  lances  fly. 

Onward  to  stem  the  coming  tide  I  prest. 

Till  streams  of  blood  o'erflowed  my  courser's  chest ; 

Silent  and  sad  he  turned — his  rider  eyed. 

And  though  the  words  of  utterance  were  denied. 

Looks  of  reproach  his  inward  feelings  spoke. 

While  sobs  of  anguish  from  his  heart-strings  broke  ; 

Rallying,  again  his  fiery  head  he  rears. 

And  proudly  charges  'mid  his  proud  compeers. 

While,  as  War's  terrors  I  again  defy, 

**0n  !  Antar,  on  !"  the  exulting  warriors  cr}'. — Ret.  Rev. 

v.v.  79 — 81. 

Damdam  was  slain  by  Antara  on  the  Day  of  El-Mureyqib,  one 
of  the  earliest  battles  of  the  War  of  Dahis.  Hcrim,  a  son  of 
Damdam,  was  afterwards  slain  by  Ward  son  of  Habis ;  and 
Hoseyn,  in  retaliation  for  his  brother's  death,  basely  Wolated  the 
laws  of  hospitality  by  killing  a  kinsman  of  Ward  (whose  name  is 
given  by  El-Meydani  as  Tijan)  who  was  his  guest :  see  Argument 
to  the  Poem  of  Zohair. 

Oh  may  I  live  till  justice  on  the  heads 

Of  Damdam's  sons  the  cup  of  vengeance  sheds  ! 


396  APPENDIX, 


To  blight  my  hard-earned  fame  they  basely  sought, 

Who  ne*er  in  word  had  wronged  them,  or  in  thought : 

They  sought  my  blood,  who  ne'er  had  wrought  them  harm. 

But  I,  at  least,  have  known  the  rapt'rous  charm 

Of  sweet  revenge — I've  left  their  father  dead. 

And  ravenous  vultures  hovering  o'er  his  head. — Ret,  Rev, 

THE   POEM   OF   AMRU. 

V.  I.  "  Our  morning  draught  :"  see  note  on  v.  74,  Amriol- 
kais — "A  cheerful  cup  of  wine  in  the  morning,"  says  Nott, 
**was  a  favourite  indulgence  with  the  more  luxurious  Persians. 
And  it  was  not  uncommon  among  the  Easterns,  to  salute  a  firiend 
by  saying:  *May  your  morning  potation  be  agreeable  to 
you  1' "    Thus  Hafiz  (Nott's  translation) : 

While  the  soft  lyre  and  cymbals  sound, 

Pour  cheerful  melody  around ; 
Quaff  thy  enlivening  draught  of  morning  witu ; 

And  as  the  melting  notes  inspire 

Thy  soul  with  amorous  desire, 
Kiss  thy  fair  handmaid,  kiss  her  neck  divine. 

v.  2.  "Wine  diluted  with  water : "  see  note  on  v.  58,  Tarafa's 
Mo 'all. — In  the  Romance  of  Antar,  the  hero  is  represented  as 
exclaiming : 

Give  vat  pure  wine  to  drink,  or  let  it  be  mixed; 

Give  it  me  old^  that  I  may  imagine  it  was  made  before  the  world : 

Give  me  to  drink,  and  let  me  hear  the  song  that  delights  me ! 

Amru,  in  V.  i,  and  Lebld,  v.  59,  also  refer  to  the  Arab  custom 
of  hoarding  the  best  wines. — Hafiz,  in  one  of  his  odes,  calls  for 
a  draught  of  pure  or  unmixed  wine :  mi  ftab^  wine  not  diluted 
with  water. 

vv.  1-4. 

Wake,  damsel !  wake  !  and  bring  yon  generous  wine. 
The  joyous  soul  of  Enderina's  vine ; 
Fill,  fill  the  crimson  goblet  to  the  brim. 
Till  the  wine  totters  o'er  the  circling  rim  : 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKA  T.  397 

Cheered  by  its  smiles,  the  youth  forgets  his  care, 

His  fair  one's  coldness,  and  his  own  despair  : 

Cheered  by  its  smiles  the  doting  miser  rests 

From  the  fond  worship  of  his  well-filled  chests. — Het.  Rev, 

V.  17.  It  must  not  be  supposed  that  the  poet's  special  refer- 
ence to  the  well-developed  haunches  of  his  fair  one  in  this  verse 
tends  to  confirm  the  notion  still  generally  entertained  by  Euro- 
peans that  the  Orientals  like  large,  fat  women — a  notion  utterly 
erroneous.  (See  Lane's  translation  of  "The  Thousand  and  One 
Nights,"  Ed.  1859,  vol.  i,  p.  25,  note  19.)  It  is  true  that 
Arabian  and  other  Eastern  poets  often  mention  in  terms  of 
admiration  the  "large  and  wide  hips"  of  the  maidens  whose 
charms  they  celebrate ;  for  example,  in  the  poetry  of  the  Romance 
of  Antar  contained  in  the  present  volume :  p.  229,  I.  3  ;  p.  292, 
1.  I ;  p.  293,  1.  6 ; — but  their  slender  waists  are  also  invariably 
praised,  as  in  this  same  verse  of  Amru.  And  in  the  following 
couplet,  cited  in  the  Anvdri  Suhaili  of  Husain  Va*iz  (a  modern 
Persian  version  of  the  Hindoo  Fables  of  Vishnusarman^  better 
known  to  general  readers  as  the  Fables  of  Bidpaiy  or  Pilpay,  the 
original  of  the  Arabain  Kalilah  wa  Damnah)  the  large  haunches 
and  slender  waist  of  a  maiden  are  described  by  an  amusing  play 
upon  words: 

How  shall  I  describe  her  hips  and  her  jgaist  ?  ^     [a  0 

Who  has  seen  a  mountain  (Kuh\  suspended  by  a  straw  (A'JA)?      | 

It  is  slender  women  only  who  are  celebrated  in  Arabic  poetry ]\ 
The  hero-poet  Antar"  diescribes  his  beloved  Abla  as  being 
"delicately  formed" — "like  the  branch  of  the  tamarisk";  while 
the  palm-tree,  the  cypress,  and  the  well-proportioned  spear  are 
common  similitudes  in  Eastern  poetry  for  the  gracefully  slender 
form  of  a  beautiful  woman. 

v.  26.  Mr  Lyall,  in  a  note  on  one  of  his  translations  of  Songs 
from  the  Hamdseh  and  the  Agdhnl  (published  in  the  Bengal 
Asiatic  Society's  Journal)^  thus  renders  the  couplet : 

Many  the  Days  are  ours,  long  blazed  with  glory, 
when  we  withstood  the  King  and  would  not  serve  him. 


398  APPENDIX. 


" Days"  {^Ayyam\  he  explains,  is  the  word  used  in  Arab  l^end 
for  battles:  one  says,  "the  Day  of  el-Kualb,'*  "the  Day  of 
Shi*b  Jebeleh,"  &c.,  although  the  fight  may  (as  it  did  at  el- 
Kulab)  have  lasted  longer  than  one  day.  (See  note  on  vv.  25, 
26,  Hareth's  Mo*all.) 

vv.  31,  32.  In  a  note  on  v.  31  of  Zohair's  Mo*all.,  Mr  Lyall 
gives  these  couplets  of  Amru  as  follows : 

When  our  war-mill  is  set  against  a  people, 
As  grain  they  fall  thereunder  ground  to  powder  ; 

Eastward  in  Nejd  is  set  the  skin  beneath  it, 
And  the  grain  cast  therein  is  all  Quda*ah ; 

and  he  explains  that  ikifdl  (rendered  "cloth"  by  Sir  W.  Jones) 
is  the  mat  of  skin  that  is  placed  beneath  the  mill  to  receive  the 
flour. — In  the  introductory  part  of  the  Romance  of  Antar, 
King  Jazimah  (the  father  of  King  Zoheir,  the  hero's  friend) 
thus  threatens^a  hostile  tribe:  "  I  shall  command  these  warriors, 
numerous  as  locusts,  to  assault  you,  and  to  grind  you  likegrainj'^ 
Akin  to  this  comparison  of  War  to  a  mill  is  the  similitude  in 
2  Kings,  xiii.,  7  :  "  The  King  of  Syria  had  destroyed  them,  and 
had  made  them  like  the  dust  by  threshing."  (See  Poem  of  Zohair, 
V.  31,  and  Note,) 

V.  40.  **  Our  javelins  exquisitely  wrought  of  Khathaian  reeds, " 
i.e,  lances  of  Khatt :  see  note  on  v.  50,  Lebeid's  Mo'all. 

V.  45.  The  syringa- flower. — The  tree  of  Judas,  on  which 
the  arch-traitor  hung  himself  after  betraying  his  Master :  the 
tree  in  consequence  is  said  to  have  wept  blood,  with  which  its 
blossoms  still  remain  deeply  dyed. — N'o/t:  Odes  of  Hafiz. — In 
the  Romance  of  Antar,  warriors  whose  armour  is  stained  with 
blood  are  frequently  compared  to  the  flowers  of  the  Judas-tree  ; 
and  the  hero  himself  describes  cups  of  wine  as  mantling  like  the 
Judas-flower.  It  is  the  Cercis  Siliquastrum  of  botanists,  accord- 
ing to  Hamilton,  "  the  flowers  of  which  are  of  a  very  bright 
purple  colour,  coming  out  from  the  branches  and  stem  on  every 
side  in  large  clusters  and  on  short  peduncles." 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKA  T. 


399 


) 


V.  66.  Colaib  Ebn  Rabiah  governed  the  Bani  Maad  (the 
Saraceni  Maadeni  of  Procopius),  and  was  so  proud  that  he  would 
not  suffer  any  one  to  hunt  in  his  neighbourhood,  nor  any  camels 
to  be  watered  with  his,  nor  any  fire  to  be  lighted  near  that  which 
he  himself  used.  He  was  at  last  slain  by  one  Jassas,  for  shooting 
a  camel,  named  Sarab,  that  he  found  grazing  on  a  prohibited  spot 
of  ground.  This  camel  belonged  to  an  Arab,  who  had  been 
entertained  by  Basus,  a  near  relation  of  Jassas.  The  murder  of 
Colaib  Ebn  Rebiah  occasioned  a  forty  years*  war  [see  Argument 
prefixed  to  the  Poem  of  Amru,  page  65],  whence  came  the  Arab 
proverbs:  **a  worse  omen  than  Sarab;"  "more  ominous  than 
Basus." — It  may  not  be  improper  here  to  observe  that  the  kings 
and  chiefs  of  the  Arabs  generally  forbade  others  to  bring  their 
flocks  upon  those  places  and  pastures  which  they  chose  for  them- 
selves. In  order  to  ascertain  the  limits  of  these  pastures,  when 
they  came  to  a  fruitful  valley  or  plain,  they  caused  a  dog  to  bark, 
and  the  whole  extent  of  ground  over  which  he  could  be  heard 
they  appropriated  to  themselves. — Ancient  Universal  History^ 
vol.  xviii.,  p.  [440]. 

V.  97.  **  They  walk  with  graceful  motions,  and  wave  their  \ 
bodies,"  &c.  The  gait  of  Arab  women  is  very  remarkable :  they 
incline  the  lower  part  of  the  body  from  side  to  side  as  they  step, 
and  with  hands  raised  to  the  level  of  the  bosom  they  hold  the 
edges  of  their  outer  covering.  Their  pace  is  slow,  and  they  look 
not  about  them,  but  keep  their  eyes  towards  the  ground  in  the 
direction  to  which  they  are  going. — Lane:  Thousand  and  One  / 
Nights :  Notes,  I 

vv.  92 — 100.  The  following  passage,  from  Richardson'/ 
"Dissertation  on  the  Languages,  Literature,  and  Manners  of 
Eastern  Nations,"  will  serve  as  an  interesting  commentary  on 
these  verses:  "The  military  ideas  which  prevailed  in  old  Arabia 
seem  to  have  been  peculiarly  calculated  to  promote  a  romantic 
attention  to  the  fair  sex.  A  long  cessation  of  hostilities  was 
painful  to  the  Arabs :  their  arms  were  often  turned  against  the 
neighbouring  countries,  and  caravans  of  travellers ;  but  oftener 
against  each  other.    Captives  and  plunder  were  the  chief  objects ; 


p  n*i 


400  APPENDIX. 


and  the  women  were  considered  as  most  valuable  spoils.  To 
protect  them  became  in  consequence  a  great  point  of  honour. 
Those  predal  wars,  in  whatever  light  we  may  view  them,  were 
considered  as  highly  honourable  in  Arabia,  and  no  man  was 
thought  in  any  way  accomplished,  who  could  not  boast,  in  them, 
some  feat  of  arms.  Their  expeditions  were  in  general  short.  If 
they  found  the  enemy  too  powerful,  they  retired ;  if  unprepared, 
they  suprised  them ;  if  of  equal  or  inferior  force,  they  attacked 
them :  and  one  battle  was  for  the  most  part  decisive.  A  young 
warrior  returning  after  a  short  absence,  and  laying  his  laurels, 
his  captives,  and  his  spoils  at  the  feet  of  his  mistress,  would  in 
general  woo  with  success :  and  he  whose  gallant  intrepidity  had 
saved  his  tribe  from  rapine  and  captivity  would  ever  be  a 
favourite  of  the  fair.  When  the  flower  of  any  tribe  were  absent 
upon  a  distant  enterprise,  some  hostile  neighbours  would  often 
attack  those  they  had  left  behind :  and  hence  perhaps  arose  the 
custom  of  the  Arabian  women,  even  of  the  highest  rank,  attending 
their  husbands,  fathers,  and  brothers  in  their  military  expeditions ; 
and  of  fighting  often  with  a  degree  of  heroism  not  inferior  to  the 
fabled  achievements  of  the  ancient  Amazons." 

vv.  103 — 108. 

Ours  is  the  world,  and  all  its  riches  ours ; 
None  dares  resist  us  'midst  Arabia's  powers  ; 
None  dares  control — if  any  vainly  try 
To  chain  our  freedom,  from  the  yoke  we  fly  : 
None  dares  rebuke  our  valour  as  unjust. 
Else  the  rash  slanderer  should  repent  in  dust ; 
One  chief  we  own,  and  when  that  chieftain's  son 
Swears  to  maintain  the  name  his  sire  has  won. 
In  such  frank  fealty  as  becomes  the  free. 
We  bend,  and  make  the  nations  bend  the  knee. 
Still  will  we  pour  our  warriors  o'er  the  plain, 
And  still  ojir  ships  shall  rute  the  boundless  main. 

Ret,  Rev, 
The  concluding  verses  of  Amru's  oration  in  praise  of  his  tribe 
furnish  a  fair  specimen  of  the  unbounded  boasting  in  which  the 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT 


401 


old  Arabs  were  fond  of  indalging  on  such  occasions  as  that  which 
gave  rise  to  this  Poem  and  the  following  one,  in  which  the  Tener- 
able  poetical  champion  of  the  tribe  of  Bekr  answers  the  vain 
Taglebite. 

THE  POEM  OP   HARETH. 


V.  I.     It  was  as  incumbent  on  the  old  Arab  poets  that  they\ 


should  b^n  their  compositions  with  a  lament  for  the  departure 
of  a  beloved  fair  one  as  it  was  once  the  fashion  among  European 
poets  to  affect,  in  their  songs,  sonnets,  &c.,  an  all-absorbing 
passion  for  some  real  or  imaginary  lady  of  beauty.  Thus, 
Petrarch  had  his  Laura ;  Dante  his  Beatrice ;  Surrey  his 
Geraldine ;  Lovelace  his  Althea  and  his  Lucasta ;  Waller 
his  Sacharissa.  But  among  the  desert  Arabs  there  was  often  \ 
good  reason  for  such  doleful  lamentations  as  those  with  which 
their  poems  usually  open.  Young  men  fell  in  love  with  damsels 
of  a  tribe  stationed  in  the  neighbourhood  of  their  own  tents ;  and 
when  at  length  the  two  tribes  separated,  to  seek  **  fresh  fields 
and  pastures  new,"  the  distress  of  the  forlorn  youths  at  the  sight 
of  the  camel-litters  bearing  away  their  sweethearts  frequently 
found  expression  in  such  verses  as  the  following  (translated  by 
Mr.  Payne),  which  are  quoted  in  the  **  Thousand  and  One 
Nights  "  : 

When  they  mount  their  female  camels  just  before  the  break  of 
And  the  male  ones  hurry  after  with  the  ardour  of  desire,  [day. 
And  my  eyes  perceive  my  loved  one  through  the  crannies  of 

the  wall, 
I  exclaim  with  streaming  eyelids  and  a  heart  for  love  on  fire, 
"  Turn,  thou  leader  of  the  camels,  let  me  bid  my  love  farewell !  ** 
In  her  absence  and  desertion  life  and  hope  in  me  expire. 
Never,  nevelr  have  I  broken  troth  and  plighted  love  with  her  : 
O  that  troth-plight !  would  I  knew  that  she  had  kept  her  £uth 

entire  I 

w.  6-8.    As  a  token  of  their  hospitality,  the  desert  Arabs 
were  wont  to  kindle  fires  at  night  on  the  tops  of  hills,  which 

2  C 


\ 


(Pc^ 


402  APPENDIX, 


guided  belated  travellers  to  their  tents,  and  assured  them 
of  a  hearty  welcome.  A  fire  of  this  kind  was  called  "the 
hospitality-fire,"  and  the  larger  and  more  brilliant  it  was, 
the  greater  the  honour  reflected  on  him  who  lighted  it.  So 
Hareth,  in  v.  7,  praises  Hinda  for  her  hospitable  disposition, 
in  kindling  such  a  fire  on  the  hills  that  it  "  blazed  like  the 
splendour  of  the  sun.*' — El-Khansa,  the  celebrated  poetess  of 
the  tribe  of  Sulaim  (who  was  one  of  the  early  converts  to 
el-Islam,  and  greatly  esteemed  by  the  Prophet),  thus  praises 
the  hospitality  of  her  brother : 

Sakhra  is  a  beacon  to  the  leaders  of  caravans, 
As  were  he  a  mountain  crowned  with  fire. 

And  £1-Busiri,  in  v.  88  of  his  Mantle  Poem,  says  that  the 
miracles  performed  by  the  Prophet  were  ''as  manifest  as  is  the  con- 
spicuousness  of  the  hospitality- fire  by  night  on  the  mountain-top." 

v.  19.  ''As  soon  as  dawn  appeared."  The  early  morning 
was  the  time  when  a  hostile  tribe  were  generally  attacked  and 
plundered.  Prince  Malik  lost  his  life  in  one  of  these  morning 
raids,  when  his  wedding-party  were  attacked  by  Hodl£EUi  and 
his  kinsmen :  see  pp.  2S9,  290 ;  also  Zohair's  Mo'all.,  v.  6  and 
NoUy  and  Antara's  Mo'alL,  v.  2. 


w.  21 — 26. 

Oh  thou  adomer  of  a  slanderer's  tale, 
What  can  thy  lies  in  Amru's  court  prevail  ? 
Think  not  thy  varnished  falsehood  can  do  more 
Than  envious  hosts  have  vainly  tried  before. 
Still  have  we  flourished,  spite  of  Slander's  aim. 
While  glory  crowned  our  pantings  after  Fame ; 
Long  have  the  tribes,  through  Envy's  shades  of  night. 
Seen  and  been  dazzled  by  our  glory's  light. 
Fate  on  a  lofty  rock  has  fixed  our  seat, 
Where  sunshine  settles,  and  whence  clouds  retreat ; 
Firm  is  its  base,  its  summit  seeks  the  skies, 
O'erlooks  the  storm,  and  all  its  rage  defies. — Ret.  Rez\ 


NOTES  ON  THE  MOALLAKAT,  403 

vv.  25,  26.  The '  *  dark  rock  "  is  the  glory  and  great  name  of  the 
tribe,  says  Mr  Lyall,  in  a  note  on  the  following  parallel  verses, 
from  the  spirited  song  of  'Abd-el-Melik,  son  of  *Abd-er-Rahim, 
of  the  Benu-d-Dayyan  ("  Songs  from  the  Hamdstk^^  &c.)  : 

A  mountain  we  have  where  dwells  he  whom  we  shelter  there, 
lofty,  before  whose  height  the  eye  falls  back  blunted  : 

Deep-based  is  its  root  below  ground,  and  overhead  there  soars 
its  peak  to  the  stars  of  heaven  whereto  no  man  reaches. 

In  the  same  note  Mr  Lyall  thus  renders  w.  23-26  : 

And  we  have  stood,  spite  of  their  hate,  and  high  towers 

and  firm-based  glory  lift  us  aloft ; 
Before  to-day  has  it  blinded  the  eyes 

of  men  in  which  were  wrath  and  denial. 
As  though  the  Fates  beating  against  us  met 

a  black  mountain  cleaving  the  topmost  clouds, 
Mighty  and  strong  above  the  changes  of  things, 

which  no  shock  of  the  Days  can  soften  or  shake. 

In  the  second  hemistich  of  the  last  verse,  as  above,  we  find 
"Days"  employed  for  "battles"  as  in  v.  26  of  Amru's  Mo'all., 
on  which  see  Note. 

V.  30.  "  Concealing  hatred  in  our  bosoms,  as  the  mote  is 
concealed  in  the  closed  eyelid  " — rankling,  though  unseen. 

V.  34.    "  The  sacred  month  "  :  see  note  on  v,  3,  Lebid. 

V.  37.  Al  Mondar,  the  son  of  Amriolkais  the  son  of  Numan, 
and  of  Maiwiah,  the  daughter  of  Aus,  a  lady  of  such  transcendent 
beauty  that  she  was  called  Maissamai,  ue,  "water  of  heaven," 
governed  after  his  father  in  Hira.  From  his  mother  he  and  his 
posterity  were  likewise  surnamed  Al  Mondar  Ebn  Maissamai, 
which  appellation  they  had  in  common  with  the  Kings  of 
Gbassan,  according  to  Al  Jauharius.  For  these  last  princes 
were  so  denominated  from  Abu  Amer,  of  the  tribe  of  Azd,  the 
father  of  Amru  Mazikia,  who,  by  his  surprising  liberality  and 
beneficence,  supplied  the  want  of  rain,  furnishing  his  people  with 
com  when  an  extreme  drought  had  rendered  it  so  dear  that  they 
were  incapable   of  buying  it.      This  prince   was  deposed   by 


404  APPENDIX, 


Khosru  Kobad,  KLing  of  Persia. — Ancient  Universal  History ^ 
vol.  xviii.,  p.  432. 

V.  38.    **  The  Day  of  Hayarin  "  :  see  note  on  w.  25,  26. 
v.  42.    ''  Contracts  written  on  tablets  *' :  see  note  on  ▼.  S, 
Lebld's  Mo'aU. 

V.  58.     "Whose  blood  has  flowed  unreyenged" — ^a  bitter 

taunt :  meaning  that  the  Taglebites  had  not  the  courage,  or  the 

power,  to  exact  blood  for  that  of  their  slain  kinsmen.    YfiBfi^^ 

as  the  old  Arabs  were,  however,  it  was  optional  for  the  nert 

-  of  kin  to  the  man  who  was  fouHy  slain  (called  the  "avenger  of 

O  %^  blood  ")  to  compound  with  the  slavery  his  fSaimilv  by  accepting 

ten  camels  as  satisfaction  for  the  blood  of  his  kinsman.  "TTie 
Prophet  raised  the  mulct  to  one  hundred  camels. 

V.  64.  "  The  sultry  vapour  of  noon  increased  their  magni- 
tude '' :  ue.^  the  mirage :  see  note  on  v.  15,  IL.ebid's  Mo'all. 

V.  77.  "A  vernal  season  of  beneficence  in  every  barren 
year  '* :  see  v.  88,  Lebld's  Mo'alL  and  Note. 

V.  79.  Amrio*l  Kais  was  the  name  of  several  of  the  princes  of 
Hira,  who  were  under  the  protection  of  the  Kings  of  Persia, 
whose  lieutenants  they  were  over  the  Arabs  of  *Irak.  It  does 
not  appear  from  Dr.  Pocock's  list  which  is  the  one  here  referred 
to.  The  kingdom  of  Hira  was  founded  by  Malek,  a  descendant 
of  Cahlan,  son  of  the  famous  'Abd-Shems,  sumamed  Sabd, 
prince  of  El- Yemen:  see  note  on  v.  14' of  the  "Lay  of  the 
Himyarites,"  p.  352. 

V.  8a  Mondir,  King  of  Ghassan.  The  kingdom  of  Ghassan, 
like  that  of  Hira,  owed  its  origin  to  the  inundation  of  El-Arem  : 
see  note,  v.  14,  p.  352,  El-Mondar,  or  Mundhir,  was  the  general 
name  of  the  princes  of  this  kingdom,  also  of  those  of  Hira. 
The  Kings  of  Ghassan  were  the  lieutenants  of  the  Roman 
Emperors  over  the  Arabs  of  Syria.  Perhaps  the  27th  of  Dr. 
Pocock*s  catalogue  is  the  prince  here  mentioned. 

v.  82.  The  sons  of  Aus  :  a  tribe  descended  from  Cahlan,  son 
of  'Abd-Shems  of  Yemen. 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS,  40$ 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS. 


Of  the  biographical,  historical,  and  critical  Notes  prefixed 
to  Carljle's  translations,  the  more  lengthy  ones  are,  with  a  few 
exceptions,  here  presented  in  an  abridged  form.  Additional 
Notes  are  placed  within  brackets. 


ON  THE  TOMB  OF   MANO — ^p.    95. 

The  simile  at  the  conclusion  of  this  little  piece  will  appear 
elegant  to  every  reader,  but  to  an  inhabitant  of  the  East,  where 
vegetation  and  fertility  are  in  many  places  almost  entirely 
dependent  upon  the  overflowing  of  the  rivers,  it  must  have 
been  peculiarly  striking. 

ON   THE  TOMB  OF   SAYID — ^p.    97. 

The  figure  in  the  last  stanza  is  undoubtedly  somewhat  bold, 
but  we  have  many  in  our  own  language  almost  equally  so ;  and 
while  we  admire  the  "  darkness  visible  "  of  Milton,  we  ought  not 
to  find  £siult  with  the  "  speaking  silence  *'  of  the  Arabian  poet. 

ON  THE  DEATH   OF   HIS   MISTRESS — ^p.    98. 

[The  allusion  to  the  superstition  of  the  pagan  Arabs  that  a 
bird  issued  from  the  brain  at  a  man's  death  and  screeched  over 
his  grave  (see  note  on  v.  70,  Poem  of  Antara)  determines,  as 
the  translator  remarks,  the  antiquity  of  this  poem.  The  idea 
contained  in  the  four  last  lines  is  also  found  in  one  of  the  odes 
of  Hafix — thus  paraphrased  by  Atkinson,  in  the  Notes  on  his 
epitome  of  the  Shah  Ndmeh  of  FirdausI : 

Zephyr  through  thy  locks  is  straying, 
Stealing  fragrance,  charms  displaying ; 
Should  it  pass  where  Hafiz  lies, 
From  his  conscious  dust  would  rise 
Flow'retj  of  a  thousand  dyes.] 


4o6  APPENDIX. 


HATIM  TAI,  THE  GENEROUS   ARAB  CHIEF — ^p.  99. 

Hatim  Tai  was  ftn  Arabian  chief  who  lived  a  short  time  prior 
to  the  promulgation  of  Mohammedanism.  He  has  been  so  much 
celebrated  through  the  East  for  his  generosity,  that  even  at  the 
present  day  the  greatest  encomium  which  can  be  given  to  a 
generous  man  is  to  say  that  he  is  '*as  liberal  as  Hatim."  He 
was  also  a  poet ;  but  his  talents  were  principally  exerted  in 
recommending  his  favourite  virtue.  An  Arabian  author  thus 
emphatically  describes  Hatim 's  character  :  "  His  poems  ex- 
pressed the  charms  of  beneficence;  and  his  practice  evinced 
that  he  wrote  from  the  heart. "  The  instances  related  of  Hatim 's 
generosity  are  innumerable;  and  the  following  are  selected  as 
affording  a  lively  picture  of  Arabian  manners. 

The  Emperor  of  Constantinople  having  heard  much  of  Hatim 's 
liberality,  resolved  to  make  trial  of  it.  For  this  purpose  he 
despatched  a  person  from  his  court  to  request  a  particular  horse 
which  he  knew  the  Arabian  Prince  valued  above  all  his  other 
possessions.  The  officer  arrived  at  Hatim's  abode  in  a  dark 
tempestuous  night,  at  a  season  when  all  the  horses  were  at 
pasture  in  the  meadows.  He  was  received  in  a  manner  suitable 
to  the  dignity  of  the  imperial  envoy,  and  treated  that  night  with 
the  utmost  hospitality.  The  next  day  the  officer  delivered  to 
Hatim  his  message  from  the  Emperor,  at  which  Hatim  appeared 
greatly  concerned.  "  If,"  said  he,  **  you  had  yesterday  apprised 
me  of  your  errand,  I  should  instantly  have  complied  with  the 
Emperor's  request,  but  the  horse  he  asks  is  now  no  more  :  being 
surprised  by  your  sudden  arrival,  and  having  nothing  else  to 
regale  you  with,  I  ordered  that  particular  horse  to  be  killed, 
and  served  up  to  you  last  night  for  supper."  (The  Arabians 
prefer  the  flesh  of  horses  to  any  other  food. )  Hatim  immediately 
ordered  the  finest  horses  to  be  brought,  and  b^ged  the 
ambassador  to  present  them  to  his  master..  The  Emperor 
could  not  but  admire  this  mark  of  Hatim's  generosity,  and 
confessed  that  he  truly  deserved  the  title  of  the  most  liberal 
among  men. 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  407 

It  was  the  fate  of  Hatim  to  give  umbrage  to  other  monarchs. 
Numan,  King  of  Yemen,  conceived  a  violent  jealousy  against 
him,  on  account  of  his  reputation ;  and  thinking  it  easier  to 
destroy  than  surpass  him,  the  envious  prince  commissioned 
one  of  his  sycophants  to  rid  him  of  his  rival.  The  courtier 
hastened  to  the  desert  where  the  Arabs  were  encamped.  Dis- 
covering their  tents  at  a  distance,  he  reflected  that  he  had  never 
seen  Hatim,  and  was  contriving  means  to  obtain  a  knowledge 
of  his  person,  without  exposing  himself  to  suspicion.  As  he 
advanced,  deep  in  meditation,  he  was  accosted  by  a  man  of 
an  amiable  figure,  who  invited  him  to  his  tent.  He  accepted 
the  invitation,  and  was  charmed  with  the  politeness  of  his 
reception.  After  a  splendid  repast,  he  offered  to  take  leave, 
but  the  Arab  requested  him  to  prolong  his  visit. 

"  Generous  stranger,"  answered  the  officer,  **  I  am  confounded 
by  your  civilities ;  but  an  aflair  of  the  utmost  importance  obliges 
me  to  depart." 

"Might  it  be  possible  for  you,  "replied  the  Arab,  **to  com- 
municate to  me  this  afiair,  which  seems  so  much  to  interest  you  ? 
You  are  a  stranger  in  this  place ;  if  I  can  be  of  any  assistance 
to  you,  freely  command  me." 

The  courtier  resolved  to  avail  himself  of  the  offer  of  his  host, 
and  accordingly  imparted  to  him  the  commission  he  had 
received  from  Numan.  "  But  how,"  continued  he,  "  shall  I, 
who  have  never  seen  Hatim,  execute  my  orders  ?  Bring  me  to 
the  knowledge  of  him,  and  add  this  to  your  other  favours." 

"I  have  promised  you  my  service,**  answered  the  Arab. 
"Behold,  I  am  a  slave  to  my  word.  Strike!"  said  be, 
uncovering  his  bosom — "spill  the  blood  of  Hatim,  and  may 
my  death  gratify  the  wish  of  your  prince,  and  procure  you 
the  reward  you  hope  for.  But  the  moments  are  precious  ; 
defer  not  the  execution  of  your  king's  command,  and  depart 
with  all  possible  expedition ;  the  darkness  will  aid  your  escape 
from  the  revenge  of  my  friends :  if  to-morrow  you  be  found  here, 
you  are  inevitably  undone.** 


4o8  APPENDIX, 


These  words  were  as  a  thunderbolt  to  the  courtier.  Struck 
with  a  sense  of  his  crime  and  the  magnanimity  of  Hatim,  he 
fell  down  on  his  knees,  exclaiming  :  "  God  forbid  that  I  should 
lay  a  sacrilegious  hand  on  you  1  Nothing  shall  ever  urge  me 
to  such  baseness."  He  then  quitted  the  tent  and  took  the  road 
again  to  Yemen. 

The  cruel  monarch,  at  the  sight  of  his  favourite,  demanding 
the  head  of  Hatim,  the  officer  gave  him  a  faithful  account  of 
what  had  passed.  Numan  in  astonishment  cried  out :  *'  It  is 
with  justice,  O  Hatim  !  that  the  world  reveres  you  as  a  kind  of 
divinity.  Men  instigated  by  a  sentiment  of  generosity  may  bestow 
their  whole  fortune ;  but  to  sacrifice  life  is  an  action  above 
humanity  ! " 

After  the  decease  of  Hatim,  the  Arabs  over  whom  he  presided 
refused  to  embrace  Islam.  For  this  disobedience  Mohammed 
condemned  them  all  to  death,  except  the  daughter  of  Hatim, 
whom  he  spared  on  account  of  her  father's  memory.  This 
generous  woman,  seeing  the  executioners  ready  to  perform  the 
cruel  command,  threw  herself  at  the  Prophet's  feet,  and  con- 
jured him  either  to  take  away  her  life  or  pardon  her  countrymen. 
Mohammed,  moved  with  such  nobleness  of  sentiment,  revoked 
the  decree  he  had  pronounced,  and,  for  the  sake  of  Hatim 's 
daughter,  granted  pardon  to  the  whole  tribe. 

[It  is  related  that  Hatim,  the  poet  En-Nabigha  of  Dubyin,  and 
a  man  of  the  tribe  of  Nabit  were  at  the  same  time  suitors  for  the 
hand  of  Mawia,  the  daughter  of  Afsar.  Mawia,  disguised  as  a 
poor  woman,  visited  each  of  her  three  lovers,  to  partake  of  their 
hospitality.  Each  killed  a  camel  on  the  occasion  :  the  man  of 
Nabit  and  the  poet  En-Nabigha  placed  before  her  the  tail  of  the 
camel  each  had  killed  ;  but  Hatim  gave  her  the  fattest  pieces  of 
the  hind  part,  of  the  hunch,  and  of  the  part  between  the 
shoulders,  which  are  esteemed  the  greatest  dainties.  It  so 
happened  that  when  Hatim  came  to  woo  Mawia  he  found  both 
his  rivals  there  on  the  same  business.  Mawia  desired  each  of 
them  to  describe  his  way  of  life  in  verses,  promising  to  give  her 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  409 


hand  to  him  who  excelled  in  poetical  talent.  £n-Nabigha  and 
the  man  of  Nabit  in  their  verses  boasted  of  the  good  use  which 
they  made  of  their  riches  \  and  when  it  came  to  Hatim's  turn  he 
recited  the  poem,  beginning  :  "  O  Mawia  1  riches  come  in  the 
morning  and  depart  in  the  evening,"  which  Carlyle  has  freely 
rendered  into  English  (pp.  99,  100  of  this  volume).  When  the 
table  was  spread,  the  servants  put  before  each  of  the  wooers  that 
portion  of  camel's  flesh  which  he  had  given  Mawia  when  she 
visited  them  in  disguise.  £n-Nabigha  and  the  man  of  Nabit 
thereupon  slunk  away  ashamed.  Hatim  at  this  time  had  already 
one  wife,  whom  Mawia  required  him  to  divorce  before  she  would 
give  him  her  hand  in  marriage.  "Never,"  said  Hatim, — 
"never  shall  I  put  away  the  mother  of  my  daughter,"  and  he 
departed  home.  But  on  the  death  of  his  wife,  shortly  after  this, 
he  renewed  his  wooing,  and  married  Mawia,  who  bore  him  the 
spirited  daughter  that  saved  her  tribe  from  destruction  by  her 
intercession  with  the  Prophet,  as  above  mentioned. — A  number 
of  Hatim's  poetical  effusions  are  preserved  by  Oriental  writers  ; 
among  these  is  the  following  little  piece  (paraphrased,  by  Miss 
Louise  Zoller,  a  young  lady  of  considerable  literary  culture,  from 
the  German  version  of  Von  Hammer-Purgstall) : 

How  many  are  sordid  slaves  to  their  pelf ! 

Little  doth  Avarice  give,  and  evil  its  gifls. 

Praise  be  to  God  !  riches  serve  as  my  slaves, 

Freeing  captives  forlorn,  helping  the  needful. 

Mean  minds  are  contented  with  that  which  is  mean ; 

But  he  who  truly  is  great  aspires  to  deeds  which  are  noble. 

Hatim  is  the  hero  of  a  modem  Persian  romance,  of  which  an 
English  translation,  by  Mr.  Duncan  Forbes,  was  published  in 
1830.  This  work  professes  to  recount  Hatim*s  marvellous 
adventures  in  distant  lands — going  about  relieving  the  distressed 
and  removing  obstacles  to  the  union  of  fond  lovers.  The 
Romance  of  Hatim  Tal  appears  to  be  mainly  compiled  from 
ancient  Sanskrit  fables  and  tales ;  and  the  adventures  ascribed 
to  the  generous  Arab    chief   are    purely  fictitious,   but  very 


4IO  APPENDIX, 


entertaining. — Like  Zuhayr  the  poet,  Hatim  is  said  by  Muslim 
writers  to  have  predicted  the  advent  of  Muhammad. 

**  Hatim  Tai  no  longer  exists,"  says  the  celebrated  Persian 
poet  Sa*di,  in  his  Gulistan^  or  Rose-Garden ;  "  but  his  exalted 
name  will  remain  famous  for  virtue  to  eternity.  Distribute  the 
tithe  of  your  wealth  in  alms ;  for  when  the  husbandman  lops 
off  the  exuberant  branches  from  the  vine,  it  produces  an 
increase  of  grapes."] 

THE   BATTLE   OF   SABLA — p.    lOI. 

The  antitheses  contained  in  the  second  and  last  stanzas  of  this 
poem  are  much  admired  by  the  Arabian  commentators.  Both 
this  poem  and  the  one  following  [p.  102]  are  taken  from  the 
Hamdsa;  and  afford  curious  instances  of  the  animosity  which  pre- 
vailed amongst  the  several  Arabian  clans,  and  of  the  rancour 
with  which  they  pursued  each  other,  when  once  at  variance. 

NABEGAT   BENI   JAID — ^p.    I04. 

There  have  been  several  poets  of  the  name  of  Nabegat :  the 
author  of  these  verses  was  descended  from  the  family  of  Jaid. 
As  he  died  in  the  40th  year  of  the  Hijra  [A.D.  660],  aged  one 
hundred  and  twenty,  he  must  have  been  fourscore  at  the  promul- 
gation of  Islam ;  he  however  declared  himself  an  early  convert 
to  the  new  faith.  The  Arabian  historians  give  us  a  curious 
instance  of  Mohammed's  affection  for  him.  Nabegat,  being  one 
day  introduced  to  the  Prophet,  was  received  by  him  with  a 
salutation  usual  enough  amongst  the  Arabians :  "  May  God 
preserve  thy  mouth  ! "  This  benediction,  proceeding  from  lips 
so  sacred,  had  such  an  effect,  that  in  an  instant  the  poet's  teeth, 
which  were  loosened  by  his  great  age,  became  firm  in  his  head, 
and  continued  sound  and  beautiful  as  long  as  he  lived.  The 
Mohammedan  doctors  however  are  much  divided  in  opinion  upon 
the  important  point,  whether  Nabegat  actually  retained  all  his 
original  teeth,  or  whether,  having  lost  them,  he  got  a  new  set. 


NOTES  ON  SNORTER  POEMS.  4" 


THE  SONG  OF   MAISUNA — p.    I05. 

[This  song  is  still  popular  in  Arabia,  especially  among  the 
desert  tribes.  Mrs.  Godfrey  Clerk,  in  her  * fldm-en-Nds, 
p.  108,  gives  the  follo¥ring  translation : 

A  hut  that  the  winds  make  tremble 

Is  dearer  to  me  than  a  noble  palace ; 
And  a  dish  of  crumbs  on  the  floor  of  my  home 

Is  dearer  to  me  than  a  varied  feast ; 
And  the  soughing  of  the  breeze  through  every  crevice 

Is  dearer  to  me  than  the  beating  of  drums ; 
And  a  camel's- wool  abdh  which  gladdens  my  eye 

Is  dearer  to  me  than  filmy  robes ; 
And  a  dog  barking  around  my  path 

Is  dearer  to  me  than  a  coaxing  cat ; 
And  a  restive  young  camel,  following  the  litter, 

Is  dearer  to  me  than  a  pacing  mule ; 
And  a  feeble  boor  from  midst  my  cousinhood 

Is  dearer  to  me  than  a  rampant  ass. 

And  this  is  Captain  Burton's  version  (Ti/gn'ma^f,  iii.  p.  262) : 

O  take  these  purple  robes  away. 

Give  back  my  cloak  of  camel's  hair, 
And  bear  me  from  this  tow'ring  pile 

To  where  the  black  tents  flap  i'  the  air. 
The  camel's  colt  with  fait 'ring  tread. 

The  dog  that  bays  at  all  but  me, 
Delight  me  more  than  ambling  mules — 

Than  every  art  of  minstrelsy. 
And  any  cousin,  poor  but  free, 
Might  take  me,  fatted  ass  !  from  thee. 

The  differences  observable  in  these  two  translations  and  in  that 
by  Carlyle  probably  arise  from  each  having  been  made  from 
distinct  variants  of  the  original. 

Mu'awiya  was  the  fifth  Khalif  in  succession  from  Muhammad, 
and  the  founder  of  the  house  of  'Umayya.] 


y 


412  APPENDIX, 


THE   IMAM   SHAFAY — p.   I08. 

Shafay,  the  founder  of  one  of  the  four  orthodox  sects  into 
which  the  Mohammedans  are  divided,  was  a  disciple  of  Malek 
Ben  Ans,  and  the  master  to  Ahmed  Ebn  Hanbal;  each  of 
whom,  like  himself,  founded  a  sect  which  is  still  denominated 
from  the  name  of  its  author.  The  fourth  sect  is  that  of  Abu 
Hanifah.  This  differs  in  tenets  considerably  from  the  three 
others;  for  whilst  the  Malekites,  the  Shafaites,  and  the  Hanbalites 
are  invariably  bigoted  to  tradition  in  their  interpretations  of  the 
Koran,  the  Hanifites  consider  themselves  as  at  liberty  in  any 
difficulty  to  make  use  of  their  own  reason. — The  reputation 
Shafay  acquired  was  not  entirely  the  consequence  of  his  theolo- 
gical writings :  he  published  many  poems,  which  have  been  much 
admired.  This  specimen  seems  intended  to  recommend  the 
doctrine  of  fatalism — a  doctrine  which  has  always  been  &vonred 
by  the  orthodox  Mohammedans. 

'[*'  It  is  eminently  erroneous  and  unjust,"  says  Mr.  Redhouse, 
in  a  valuable  paper  on  "The  Most  Comely  Names,  i,e.,,  the 
Titles  of  Praise  bestowed  on  God  in  the  Qur'an,"  &c.,  which 
appeared  in  a  recent  number  of  the  Journal  of  the  Royal 
Asiatic  Society, — **as  well  as  inconsequent  and  inconsistent, 
for  professing  Christians,  writers  and  speakers,  to  cast  upon 
Muslims,  their  scriptures,  and  their  prophet,  the  unfounded 
accusation  of  fatalism.  That  is  a  pagan  idea,  with  which 
Islam  has  no  more  in  common  than  Christianity  has.  What 
Muhammad  taught,  what  the  Qur*an  so  eloquently  and  so 
persistently  sets  forth,  and  what  real  faithftil  Muslims  believe, 
conformably  with  what  is  contained  in  the  Gospels  and  accepted 
by  devout  Christians,  is,  that  God's  Providence  pre-ordains,  as 
His  Omniscience  foreknows,  all  events,  and  overrules  the  designs 
of  men,  to  the  sure  fulfilment  of  His  all- wise  purposes."] 

IBRAHIM  BEN  ADHAM — p.  I09. 

Ibrahim  ben  Adham  was  a  hermit  of  Syria,  equally  celebrated 
for  his  talents  and  piety.   He  was  the  son  of  a  prince  of  Khorassan, 


V 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS,  413 

and  was  bom  about  the  97th  year  of  the  Hijra  [a.d.  715].  The 
zeason  of  his  betaking  himself  to  a  religious  life  is  related  by 
Ibrahim  Ben  Yesar,  from  the  holy  man's  own  mouth.  '*I  once 
requested  him,"  says  this  author,  "  to  inform  me  by  what  means 
he  arrived  at  his  exalted  sanctity,  and  by  what  motives  he  was 
first  induced  to  take  leave  of  the  world.  For  a  while  he  con- 
tinued silent,  but  upon  my  repeatedly  urging  him,  he  answered, 
that  being  one  day  eagerly  engaged  in  the  chase,  he  was  surprised 
with  hearing  a  voice  behind  him  utter  these  words  :  *  Ibrahim  1 
it  was  not  for  this  purpose  thou  wast  created.'  He  immediately 
stopped  his  horse,  and  turned  about  to  see  from  whence  the 
voice  came,  but  discovering  no  one  near,  he  fancied  it  to  be  an 
illusion,  and  returned  to  his  sport.  In  a  short  time  he  heard 
the  same  words  pronounced  still  more  loudly,  '  Ibrahim  I  it  was 
not  for  this  purftose  thou  wast  created.'  He  now  no  longer 
doubted  the  reality  of  the  admonition,  and  falling  down  in  a 
transport  of  devotion,  cried  out :  '  It  is  the  Lord  who  speaks ; 
his  servant  will  obey.'  Immediately  he  desisted  from  his  amuse- 
ment,  and  changing  clothes  with  an  attendant,  bade  adieu  to 
Khorassan,  took  the  road  towards  Syria,  and  from  thence- 
forward devoted  himself  entirely  to  a  life  of  piety  and  labour." 
Ben  Adham  performed  the  stated  pilgrimage  to  Mecca  without 
companions,  and  without  having  provided  any  necessaries  for  his 
journey.  He  obliged  himself  also  to  make  eleven  hundred  genu- 
flexions in  every  mile,  by  which  means  twelve  years  elapsed  before 
he  completed  his  pilgrimage.  As  he  was  returning  from  Mecca 
he  met  the  Khalif  Haroun  Alrashid,  who  was  going  thither, 
accompanied  by  a  magnificent  train ;  and  it  w<is  upon  this  occa- 
sion that  he  addressed  these  verses  to  the  Commander  of  the 
Faithful,  as  a  reproach  for  his  ostentatious  devotion. 

ISAAC  ALMOUSELY — p.  IIO. 

Isaac  Almousely  is  considered  by  the  Orientals  as  the  most 
celebrated  musician  that  ever  flourished.  He  was  bom  in  Persia,, 
but  having  resided  almost  entirely  at  Mousel,  he  is  generally 
supposed  to  have  been  a  native  of  that  place.     Mahadi,  the 


^ 


414  APPENDIX, 


father  of  Haroun  Alrashid,  having  accidentally  heard  Almonsely 
sing  one  of  his  compositions,  accompanied  by  a  lute,  was  so 
channed  with  the  performance  that  he  carried  him  to  Bagdad, 
and  appointed  him  principal  musician  to  the  court ;  an  office 
which  Almousely  filled  with  universal  applause  during  the  reigns 
of  five  successive  Khalifs  of  the  house  of  Abbas,  viz.,  Mahadi, 
Hadi,  Haroun,  Amin,  and  Mamoun. — Haroun  Alrashid,  whose 
inauguration  is  commemorated  in  these  verses  [p.  1 10],  was  the 
fifth  of  the  Abbasside  Khalifs,  and  the  second  son  of  Mahadi. 
He  succeeded  to  the  throne  upon  the  demise  of  his  elder  brother 
Hadi,  in  the  170th  year  of  the  Hijra  [a.d.  786].  Haroun,  who 
was  passionately  fond  of  music,  could  not  but  be  charmed  with 
the  talents  of  Almousely.  At  every  party  of  amusement  given 
by  the  Khalif,  Almousely  made  one;  and  he  is  represented, 
like  another  Timotheus,  to  have  been  able  at  pleasure,  by  the 
touches  of  his  lute,  to  raise  or  depress  the  passions  of  his  master. 
Ebn  Khalican  relates  the  following  remarkable  instance  of  the 
effect  of  his  musical  powers  upon  the  Khalif : 

Haroun  Alrashid  having  quarrelled  with  his  favourite  mistress, 
Meridah,  left  her  in  a  rage,  and  refused  to  see  her  again.  The 
lady  was  in  despair,  and  knew  not  in  what  manner  to  bring 
about  a  reconciliation.  In  the  mean  time  the  vizier,  Jaafer,  who 
had  always  been  a  friend  to  Meridah,  sent  for  Almousely,  and 
giving  him  a  song,  composed  for  the  purpose,  requested  him  to 
perform  it  before  the  Khalif  with  all  the  pathos  he  was  master 
of.  Almousely  obeyed  ;  and  such  were  the  powers  of  his  execu- 
tion, that  Haroun,  immediately  bidding  adieu  to  his  anger, 
rushed  into  the  presence  of  Meridah,  and  taking  all  the  blame  of 
the  quarrel  upon  himself,  entreated  his  mistress  to  forgive  his 
indiscretion,  and  bury  what  was  past  in  an  eternal  oblivion. 
The  historian  adds  (for  such  must  always  be  the  catastrophe  of 
an  Eastern  story  when  it  terminates  happily),  that  the  lady,  over- 
joyed with  this  sudden  alteration  in  the  Khalif 's  disposition, 
ordered  ten  thousand  dirhems  to  be  given  to  Jaafer,  and  as  much 
to  Almousely ;  while  Haroun,  on  his  part,  not  less  pleased  with 
their  reconciliation  than  the  lady,  doubled  the  present  to  each. 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  415 


THE  RUIN   OF  THE   BARMECIDES — p.    III. 

The  family  of  Barmec  was  one  of  the  most  illustrious  in  the  East : 
they  were  descended  from  the  ancient  Kings  of  Persia,  and 
possessed  immense  property  in  various  countries ;  they  derived 
still  more  consequence  from  the  favour  which  they  enjoyed 
at  the  court  of  Bagdad,  where  for  many  years  they  filLd 
the  highest  offices  of  the  state  with  universal  approbation. 
The  first  of  this  family  who  distinguished  himself  at  Bagdad 
was  Yahia  Ben  Khaled,  a  person  endowed  with  every  virtue  and 
talent  that  could  render  a  character  complete.  He  had  four  sons, 
Fadhel,  Jaafer,  Mohammed,  and  Musa,  all  of  whom  showed 
themselves  worthy  of  such  a  father.  Yahia  was  chosen  by 
the  Khalif  Mahadi  to  be  governor  to  his  son  Haroun  Alrashid, 
and  when  Haroun  succeeded  to  the  Khalifate,  he  appointed 
Yahia  to  be  his  grand  vizier,  an  event  alluded  to  in  the  pre- 
ceding composition.  This  dignity  Yahia  held  for  some  years, 
and  when  increasing  infirmities  obliged  him  to  resign  it,  the 
Khalif  conferred  it  upon  his  second  son,  Jaafer. 

Jaafer's  abilities  were  formed  to  adorn  every  situation  : 
independent  of  his  hereditary  virtues,  he  was  the  most  admired 
writer  and  the  most  eloquent  speaker  of  his  age ;  and  during 
the  time  he  was  in  office,  he  displayed  at  once  the  accuracy  of 
a  man  of  business  and  the  comprehensive  ideas  of  a  statesman. 
But  the  brilliancy  of  Jaafer's  talents  rendered  him  more  accept- 
able to  his  master  in  the  capacity  of  a  companion  than  in  that 
of  a  minister.  Haroun  resolved,  therefore,  that  state  affairs 
should  no  longer  deprive  him  of  the  pleasure  he  derived 
from  Jaafer's  society ;  and  accordingly  made  him  relinquish  his 
post,  and  appointed  his  brother  Fadhel,  a  man  of  severer 
manners,  grand  vizier  in  his  room.  For  seventeen  years  the 
two  brothers  were  all-powerful  in  Bagdad  and  throughout 
the  empire ;  but,  as  often  happens  in  the  East,  their  authority 
was  overturned  in  a  moment,  and  their  whole  house  involved 


in  ruin. 


X 


The  disgrace  and  consequent  ill-treatment  of  the  Barmecides 
throw  an  eternal  stain  upon  the  memory  of  Alrashid ;  and  the 


7<~ 


416  APPENDIX. 


causes  to  which  they  are  commonly  attributed  seem  so  vague 
and  romantic  that  we  can  scarce  imagine  a  prince  like  Haroun 
could  ever  have  been  actuated  by  such  motives  to  commit 
such  enormities.  The  reason  for  their  disgrace  most  generally 
received  is  as  follows  : 

The  Khalif  had  a  sbter  called  Abassa,  of  whom  he  was 
passionately  fond,  and  whose  company  he  preferred  to  every- 
thing but  the  conversation  of  Jaafer.     These  two  pleasures  he 
would  fain  have  joined  together,  by  canying  Jaafer  with  him  in 
his  visits  to  Abassa ;  but  the  laws  of  the  Harem,  which  forbade 
anyone  except  a  near  relation  being  introduced  there,  made  that 
impossible ;  and  he  was  obliged  to  be  absent  either  from  his 
sister  or  from  his  favourite.    At  length  he  discovered  a  method 
which  he  hoped  would  enable  him  to  enjoy  at  the  same  time 
the  society  of  these  two  persons  who  were  so  dear  to  him. 
This  was  to  unite  Jaafer  and  Abassa  in  marriage.    They  were 
married  accordingly  ;  but  with  this  express  condition,  that  they 
should  never  meet  except  in  the  presence  of  the  Khalif.     Their 
interviews,  however,  were  very  frequent ;  and  as  neither  could 
be  insensible  of  the  amiable  qualities  which  the  other  possessed, 
a  mutual  affection  took  place  between  them.     Blinded  by  their 
passion,  they  forgot  the  Khalifs  injunction,  and  the  conse- 
quences of  their  intercourse  were  but  too  apparent     Abassa 
was  delivered  of  a  son,  whom  they  privately  sent  to  be  educated 
at  Mecca.     For  some  time  their  amour  was  concealed  from 
Alrashid ;    but  the  Khalif  having  at  length  received  intelli- 
gence of  it,  he  gave  way  to  his  rage,  and  determined  to  take 
the  most  severe  revenge.     In  consequence  of  this  cruel  resolve, 
he  immediately  commanded  Jaafer  to  be  put  to  death,  and  the 
whole  race  of  Barmec  to  be  deprived  of  their  possessions  and 
thrown  into  prison.    These  orders  were  obeyed :  Jaafer  was 
beheaded  in  the  antechamber  of  the  royal  apartment,  whither 
he  had  come  to  request  an  interview  with  the    implacable 
Haroun ;  and  his  father  and  brothers  perished  in  confinement 

Some  of  the  consolatory  words  which  Yahia  delivered  to  his 
unfortunate  family,  whilst  they  were  in  prison,  are  preserved  by 


X 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS,  ^\^ 


Ben  Shonah :  **  Power  and  wealth,"  said  the  venerable  old 
man,  **  were  but  a  loan  with  which  fortune  entrusted  us :  we 
ought  to  be  thankful  that  we  have  enjoyed  these  blessings  so  long ; 
and  we  ought  to  console  ourselves  for  their  loss  by  the  reflection 
that  our  fate  will  afford  a  perpetual  example  to  others  of  their 
instability." — ^The  fall  of  the  house  of  Barmec  was  considered 
as  a  general  calamity.  By  their  courtesy,  their  abilities,  and  their 
virtues,  they  had  endeared  themselves  to  everyone ;  and,  according 
to  an  Oriental  writer,  "  they  enjoyed  the  singular  felicity  of  being 
loved  as  much  when  in  the  plenitude  of  their  power  as  in  a  private 
station ;  and  of  being  praised  as  much  after  their  disgrace  as  when 
they  were  at  the  summit  of  their  prosperity.* 


t» 


TAHER   BEN    HOSEIN — ^p.    112. 

Taher  Ben  Hosein  appears  to  have  been  the  most  celebrated 
general  of  his  time.  He  commanded  the  forces  of  Mamun,  the 
second  son  of  Haroun  Alrashid,  and  it  was  chiefly  owing  to  his 
abilities  that  Mamun  arrived  at  the  throne. 

This  epigram  on  Taher  reminds  us  of  the  following  well- 
known  lines,  upon  a  brother  and  sister,  both  extremely  beautiful, 
but  who  had  each  lost  an  eye  ;  and  it  is  curious  to  observe  how 
easily  the  same  idea  is  modified  by  a  diflerent  poet  into  a  satire 
or  a  panegyric  :  ""* 

Lumine  dextro  Aeon,  capta  est  Leonilla  sinistro, 
Sed  potis  est  formd  vincere  uterque  deos  : 
Alme  puer,  lumen  quod  habes  concede  sorrori, 
Sic  tu  caecus  Amor,  sic  erit  ilia  Venus. 

An  eye  both  Lycidas  and  Julia  want, 
Yet  each  is  fairer  than  the  gods  above ; 

Couldst  thou,  sweet  youth,  thine  eye  to  Julia  grant, 
Thou  wouldst  be  Cupid,  she  the  Queen  of  Love.' 

THE  ADIEU — p.    113. 

This  beautiful  little  composition,  which  bears  a  striking 
resemblance  to  one  of  Sappho's  odes,  was  sung  before  the 

2  D 


4i8  APPENDIX, 


Khali  f  Wathek,  by  Abu  Mohammed,  a  musician  of  Bagdad, 
as  a  specimen  of  his  musical  talents ;  and  such  were  its  effects 
upon  the  Khalifj  that  he  immediately  testified  his  approbation 
of  the  performance  by  throwing  his  own  robe  over  the  shoulders 
of  Abu  Mohammed,  and  ordering  him  a  present  of  a  hundred 
thousand  dirhems. — Wathek  was  the  ninth  Khalif  of  the  house 
of  Abbas,  and  a  son  of  Motassem,  the  youngest  of  Haroun 
Alrashid's  children.  He  succeeded  his  father  A.D  841,  and  died 
after  a  short  reign  of  five  years.  Wathek  was  not  deficient 
either  in  virtue  or  abilities  :  he  not  only  admired  and  coun- 
tenanced literature  and  science,  but  in  several  branches  of  them, 
particularly  poetry  and  music,  was  himself  a  proficient.  His 
last  words  were  :  **  King  of  heaven,  whose  dominion  is  ever- 
lasting, have  mercy  on  a  wretched  prince,  whose  reign  is 
transitory ! " 

[This  prince  is  the  hero  of  Beckford's  "Arabian"  tale  of  Vathek^ 
which  Byron  has  highly  praised  for  **  correctness  of  costume, 
beauty  of  description,  and  power  of  imagination  ; "  but,  though 
certainly  a  remarkable  work  of  fancy,  it  is  far  from  meriting  the 
encomiums  which  were  at  one  time  so  lavishly  bestowed  upon  it] 

ABU   TEMAN    HABIB — p.    II4. 

Abu  Teman  is  reckoned  the  most  excellent  of  all  the  Arabian 
poets  ;  and  I  regret  that  I  have  not  been  able  to  give  a  more 
adequate  specimen  of  his  talents.  He  was  bom  near  Damascus, 
A.H.  190  [a.d.  805],  and  educated  in  Egypt ;  but  the  principal 
part  of  his  life  was  spent  at  Bagdad,  under  the  patronage  of  the 
Abbaside  Khalifs.  The  presents  he  is  reported  to  have  received 
from  these  princes,  and  the  respect  with  which  he  was  treated 
by  them,  are  so  extravagant  that  one  can  scarce  give  credit  to 
the  accounts  of  historians.  For  a  single  poem  which  he  presented 
to  one  of  them,  he  was  rewarded  with  fifty  thousand  pieces  of 
gold,  and  at  the  same  time  assured  that  this  pecuniary  favour 
was  infinitely  below  the  obligation  he  had  conferred  ;  and  upon 
reciting  an  elegy  he  had  composed  on  the  death  of  some  great 
man,  he  was  told  that  no  one  could  be  said  to  die  who  had  been 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  419 

celebrated  by  Abu  Teman.  This  poet  expired  at  Mouse],  before 
he  had  quite  reached  his  fortieth  year.  His  early  death  had 
been  already  predicted  by  a  contemporary  writer,  in  these 
words :  "  The  mind  of  Abu  Teman  must  soon  wear  out 
his  body,  as  the  blade  of  an  Indian  scimitar  destroys  its 
scabbard.** 

PLord  Byron,  in  his  Letters,  employs  the  same  expression,  with 
reference  to  himself,  that  *'  the  sword  wears  out  the  sheath.*' — 
Abu  Temmam  was  the  compiler  of  the  Hamdsa,  a  collection  of 
ancient  Arabic  poetry,  consisting  of  epigrams,  odes,  elegies,  &c. 
It  was  a  saying  of  Abu  Temmam  that  fine  sentiments  delivered 
in  prose  were  like  gems  scattered  at  random,  but  when  they  were 
confined  in  a  poetical  mestsure,  they  resembled  bracelets  and 
strings  of  pearls.] 

ABD  ALSALEM  BEN   RAGBAN — ^p.    1 1 5. 

Abd  Alsalem  was  a  poet  more  remarkable  for  abilities  than 
morality.  We  may  form  an  idea  of  the  nature  of  his  composi- 
tions from  the  nickname  he  acquired  amongst  his  contemporaries 
of  "Cock  of  the  evil  GeniL**  He  died  A.H.  236  [A.D.  850],  aged 
near  eighty. 

EBN   ALRUMI — ^pp.    120,  121. 

Ebn  Alrumi  is  reckoned  by  Arabian  writers  as  one  of  the  most 
excellent  of  all  their  poets.  He  was  by  birth  a  Syrian,  and 
passed  the  greatest  part  of  his  life  at  Emessa,  where  he  died, 
A.H.  283  [a.d.  896].  Alrumi  attempted  every  species  of  poetry, 
and  he  attempted  none  in  which  he  did  not  succeed.  But  he 
requires  no  further  encomium  when  we  say  that  he  was  the 
favourite  author  of  the  celebrated  Avicenna,  who  employed  ft 
great  portion  of  his  leisure  hours  in  writing  a  commentary  upon 
the  works  of  Ebn  Alrumi. 

[The  beautiful  epigram  of  Ibnu  'r-Rumi,  which  our  translator 
has  expanded  into  the  verses,  "To  a  Lady  Weeping"  (p.  120),  is 


420  APPENDIX. 


thus  rendered  into  Latin  verse  by  Sir  W.  Jones,  in  his  Poeteos 
Asiatica  Commentarii: 

Vidi  in  hortulo  violam, 

Cujus  folia  rore  splendebant ; 
Similis  erat  flos  illi  (puellse)  coeruleos  habenti  oculos. 

Quorum  cilia  lacrymas  stillant 

Professor  John  W.  Hales,  of  King's  College,  London,  has 
directed  the  Editor's  attention  to  the  close  resemblance  which 
a  verse  of  one  of  Lord  Byron's  *'  Hebrew  Melodies "  bears 
to  the  first  stanza  of  Carlyle's  paraphrase  of  Ibnu  *r-Rumrs 
epigram  : 

I  saw  thee  weep — the  big  bright  tear 

Came  o'er  that  eye  of  blue  ; 
And  then  methought  it  did  appear 

A  violet  dropping  dew. — Byron. 

When  I  beheld  thy  blue  eye  shine 
Through  the  bright  drop  that  Pity  drew, 

I  saw  beneath  those  tears  of  thine 
A  blue-eyed  violet  bathed  in  dew. — CarlyWs  Trans, 

Byron*s  "  Hebrew  Melodies "  were  published,  with  music 
arranged  by  Braham  and  Nathan,  in  1814 ;  the  second  edition 
of  Carlyle's  "  Specimens  of  Arabian  Poetry "  was  issued  in 
1810 :  Byron  had,  doubtless,  read  the  volume,  and  boldly 
appropriated  the  Arab  poet's  fine  simile.] 

ALI   BEN  AHMED  BEN   MANSOUR — ^p.    122. 

Ali  Ben  Ahmed  distinguished  himself  in  prose  as  well  as  in 
poetry;  and  a  historical  work  of  considerable  reputation  of 
which  he  was  the  author  is  still  extant.  But  he  principally 
excelled  in  satire;  and  so  fond  was  he  of  indulging  this 
dangerous  talent,  that  no  one  escaped  his  lash  :  if  he  could 
only  bring  out  a  sarcasm,  it  was  matter  of  indifference  to  him 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  421 

whether  an  enemy  or  a  brother  smarted  under  its  severity.  He 
died  at  Bagdad,  A.H.  302  [a.d.  914]. — The  person  to  whom  this 
epigram  is  addressed,  Cassim  Obid  Allah,  was  successively 
vizier  to  Motadhed  and  Moctafi  his  son,  the  sixteenth  and 
seventeenth  Khalifs  of  the  house  of  Abbas ;  the  latter  of  whom 
was  principally  indebted  to  the  activity  of  Obid  Allah  for  his 
exaltation  to  the  throne.  This  vizier  died  a.h  294  [a.d.  906], 
having  been  entrusted  with  the  chief  direction  of  affairs  at 
Bagdad  for  nearly  fifteen  years. 

TO  A    FRIEND,   ON   HIS   BIRTHDAY — ^p.    1 23. 

The  thought  contained  in  these  lines  appears  so  natural  and  so 
obvious,  that  one  wonders  it  did  not  occur  to  all  who  have 
attempted  to  write  upon  a  birthday  or  a  death.  To  me,  how- 
ever, it  was  perfectly  novel. — The  Persian  verses  given  in  the 
Asiatic  Miscellany ^  vol.  ii.,  p.  374,  seem  to  be  a  translation 
from  our  Arabian  author. 

[The  verses  to  which  Carlyle  refers,   translated    from    the 
Persian  by  Sir  W.  Jones,  are  as  follows  : 

On  parent  knees,  a  naked  new-born  child. 
Weeping  thou  sat'st,  while  all  around  thee  smiled  : 
So  live,  that,  sinking  to  thy  last  long  sleep. 
Calm  thou  mayst  smile,  while  all  around  thee  weep. 

Strange  as  it  may  appear,  the  original  of  these  lines  has  been 
ascribed  to  the  Rev.  Charles  Wesley.  In  Azotes  and  Queries^ 
May  10,  1879  (5th  Series,  voL  xi.,  p.  365),  a  correspondent 
quotes  the  following  passage,  from  page  399  of  Mr.  George 
J.  Stevenson's  Memorials  of  the  Wesley  Family ^  London,  1876 : 
"  On  the  last  day  of  January,  1750,  a  clap  of  thunder  unusually 
loud  and  terrible  aroused  Mr.  and  Mrs.  [Charles]  Wesley  at  two 
in  the  morning.  Greatly  alarmed,  Mrs.  Wesley  went  with  her 
husband  to  consult  a  physician.  Overtaken  by  a  shower  of  rain, 
they  made  too  great  haste  home,  and  the  consequence  was  the 
premature  birth  of  their  first  child.     The  mother  recovered,  not 


422  APPENDIX. 


the  child.    The  occasion  awakened  the  muse  of  the  father,  who 
wrote  the  following  lines  : 

ON  AN   INFANT. 

The  man  that  ushered  thee  to  light,  my  child, 
Saw  thee  in  tears  while  all  around  thee  smiled  : 
When  summoned  hence  to  thine  eternal  sleep, 
Oh  I  may'st  thou  smile,  while  all  around  thee  weep." 

The  writer  in  Notes  and  Queries  then  cites  the  supposed 
**  imitation  "  of  these  lines  by  Sir  W.  Jones,  and  while  shrewdly 
remarking  that  the  resemblance  was  too  great  to  be  a  mere 
coincidence,  he  allows  that  the  Orientalist  "has  greatly  improved 
the  language,  taking  the  rough  gold  of  the  original  and 
moulding  it  into  a  form  of  beauty  that  will  live  for  ever."  As 
may  be  readily  supposed,  replies  to  this  charge  of  plagiarism 
against  Jones  quickly  followed  in  the  same  useful  and  enter- 
taining miscellany  :  one  writer  observing  that  the  lines  ascribed 
to  Wesley  in  Mr.  Stevenson's  book  appear  to  be  an  ill- 
remem1)ered  citation  from  the  beautiful  and  almost  perfect 
quatrain  of  Sir  W.  Jones ;  another  remarking  that  it  would 
indeed  be  something  strange  to  find  such  a  man  as  Jones 
borrowing  ideas  of  Charles  Wesley  ;  and  both  pointing  out  the 
original  as  given  in  Carlyle's  volume,  tc^ether  with  his  English 
rendering.  Other  correspondents  quoted  a  French  translation 
of  verses,  identical  with  the  Arabic  original,  by  the  Persian 
poet  Hatif,  and  an  apothegm,  similar  in  sentiment  and  even  in 
language,  from  Galland's  MaximeSy  &•*€.,  des  Orientaux. — 
Altc^ether,  the  idea  of  Charles  Wesley's  having  written  the 
original  of  this  beautiful  little  piece  is  simply  absurd.  Moreover, 
the  story  bears  upon  the  face  of  it  the  stamp  of  improbability. 
Ladies  in  an  *'  interesting  condition  "  do  not  leave  their  houses  at 
two  o'clock  in  the  morning  to  go  and  consult  the  family  doctor.] 

IBN   ALALAF   ALNAHARWANY — p.    1 24. 

This  author  was  a  native  of  Naharwan,  but  he  lived  principally 
At  Bagdad,  where  he  expired,  A.H.   318  [a.d.   930],   at  the 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  423 

advanced  age  of  a  hundred.  He  is  represented  to  have  had 
a  most  voracious  appetite,  and  as  little  delicacy  in  the  choice 
of  his  food.  Of  this  Nuvari  relates  the  following  ludicrous 
instance.  The  poet  one  day  mounted  his  ass,  in  order  to  pay 
a  visit  to  a  nobleman  in  Bagdad.  He  was  introduced  into  the 
saloon,  and  in  the  meantime  the  attendants  conducted  his  ass 
into  the  kitchen,  where  it  was  killed  and  dressed,  and  at  the 
proper  time  served  up  to  him  at  table.  The  poet  relished  his 
dinner  so  much  that  he  devoured  every  morsel  which  was  set 
before  him,  declaring  that  he  had  never  tasted  such  excellent 
veal  in  his  life.  When  evening  approached,  he  called  for  his 
ass,  that  he  might  return  home ;  but  the  animal  was  nowhere  to 
be  found ;  and  at  length  they  confessed  the  trick  which  had 
been  put  upon  him.  The  nobleman,  however,  made  him  a 
present  which  amply  compensated  for  his  loss,  and  he  took 
leave,  perfectly  satisfied  with  his  entertainment. 

The  occasion  of  this  odd  composition  and  its  real  intent  are 
variously  related.  Some  say  that  it  means  no  more  than  it 
pretends  to  do,  and  that  it  was  actually  composed  on  the  death 
of  a  favourite  Cat.  Others  tell  us  that  the  poet  here  laments 
the  misfortunes  of  Abdallah  Ebn  Motaz,  who  was  raised  to  the 
Khalifate  by  a  popular  tumult,  A.H.  296  [a.d.  908],  and, 
after  enjoying  his  dignity  a  single  day,  put  to  death  by  his  rival 
Moctader.  As  the  poet  durst  not  show  his  grief  for  Abdallah  in 
a  more  open  manner,  he  invented,  according  to  these  authors, 
this  allegory,  in  which  the  fate  of  AlKlallah  is  represented 
under  that  of  a  cat.  But  the  opinion  most  generally  received  is 
that  these  verses  were  composed  as  an  elegy  upon  the  death  of  a 
private  friend,  whose  name  is  not  known,  but  who,  like  Abd- 
allah, owed  his  ruin  to  the  rash  gratification  of  a  headstrong 
passion.  This  young  man  entertained  an  affection  for  a 
favourite  female  slave  belonging  to  the  vizier  Ali  Ben  Isa,  and 
was  equally  beloved  by  her  in  return.  Their  amour  had  been 
concealed  for  some  time,  but  the  lovers  l>eing  one  day  unfor- 
tunately surprised  in  each  other's  company  by  the  jealous 
vizier,  he  sacrificed  them  both  to  his  fury  upon  the  spot. 


APPENDIX. 


EBN   NAPHTA-WAH — p.    126. 

Mohammed  Ben  Arpa,  here  ciUed  Na]ihia-wah,  was  riescended 
from  a  noble  family  in  Khoras-san.  He  applied  himself  lo  study 
wilh  indernlig.ible  jiet^x-erance.  nnd  was  a  very  voluminous 
author  in  several  branches  of  literature ;  but  he  is  chiefly  dis- 
tinguished as  a.  giainmarian.      He  died  A.M.  323  [a-D.  934], 

THE   KHALIF   RADHI    BILLAH — pp.    127,  laS. 

Radhi  Billah,  the  son  of  Moclader,  was  the  twcnlieth 
Khalif  of  the  hoiisi^  of  Abhas,  and  the  last  of  these  princes 
who  possessed  any  substantial  power.  He  is  universally  repre- 
sented to  have  been  a  man  of  talents,  and  these  compo^iliotis 
will  show  that  he  uas  not  deticienl  in  poetical  merit.  He  died 
A.H.  3*9  [A.D.  940]. 


-p.   131. 

The  Court  of  Aleppo,  during  the  reign  of  Saif  Addaulet 
[A-O.  944-966],  was  the  most  polished  in  (he  East :  the  Sultan 
and  his  brothers  were  all  eminent  for  ptetical  talents,  and 
whoever  eicellerl,  eilher  in  literature  or  in  science,  was  sure 
of  obtaining  their  patronage ;  so  that  at  a  time  when  not  only 
Europe,  but  great  part  of  Asia,  was  sunk  in  the  profoundesl 
ignorance,  the  Sultan  of  Aleppo  coulil  boast  of  such  an 
assemblage  of  genius  at  his  cuuit  as  few  sovereigns  have  ever 
been  able  10  bring  together. — Elmacin  relates  that  Saif  Addaulet, 
having  conceived  a  passion  for  a  princess  of  the  blood  roy«], 
gave  such  public  marks  of  the  preference  he  entertained  for  her, 
[hat  the  ladies  of  his  harem  took  alarm,  and  resolved  to  rid 
themselves  of  the  object  of  their  jealousy  by  means  of  poison. 
The  Sultan,  however,  obtained  intelligence  of  Iheir  design,  and 
deleriiiincd  to  prevent  it,  by  iraiispuiiiit^  the  princess  to  a  castle 
■t  some  distance  from  Aleppo ;  nnd  whilst  she  rcmnlned  in  this 
solitode  he  addressed  loher  these  verses. 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  425 


THE  CRUCIFIXION   OF   EBN   BAKIAH — p.    I32. 

Ebn  Bakiah  was  vizier  to  Azzad  Addaulet  or  Bachteir,  Emir 
Alomra  of  Bagdad,  under  the  Khalifs  Moti  Lillah  and  Tay 
Lillah  :  but  Azzad  Addaulet  being  deprived  of  his  office  and 
driven  from  Bagdad  by  Adhed  Addaulet,  Sultan  of  Persia,  Ebn 
Bakiah  was  seized  upon  and  crucified  at  the  gates  of  the  city  by 
order  of  the  conqueror. — The  mode  of  punishment  inflicted  on 
the  vizier  gave  occasion  to  this  quibbling  composition,  which 
appears  to  a  European  more  remarkable  for  its  unfeelingness 
than  for  its  ingenuity.  Amongst  the  Orientals,  however,  who 
prefer  this  kind  oi  jeu  de  mots  to  every  other  species  of  wit, 
it  has  always  been  so  'much  admired,  that  there  is  scarce  any 
historian  of  those  times  who  has  not  inserted  in  his  work  a  copy 
of  the  verses  upon  Ebn  Bakiah. 

SHEMS   ALMAALI   CABUS — p.    1 33. 

History  can  show  few  princes  so  amiable  and  few  so  unfortu- 
nate as  Shems  Almaali  Cabus.  He  is  described  as  possessed  of 
almost  every  virtue  and  every  accomplishment :  his  piety,  justice, 
generosity,  and  humanity  are  universally  celebrated  ;  nor  was  he 
less  conspicuons  for  intellectual  powers  :  his  genius  was  at  once 
penetrating,  solid,  and  brilliant,  and  he  distinguished  himself 
equally  as  an  orator,  a  philosopher,  and  a  poet.  In  such  esti- 
mation were  his  writings  held  that  the  most  careless  productions 
of  his  pen  were  preserved  as  models  of  composition ;  and  we  are 
told  that  a  famous  vizier  of  Persia  could  never  open  even  an  offi- 
cial despatch  from  Shems  Almaali  without  exclaiming :  "  This 
is  written  with  the  feather  of  a  celestial  bird  ! " 

Shems  Almaali  ascended  the  throne  of  Georgia  on  the  death 
of  his  brother,  a.h.  366  [a.d.  976];  and  during  a  reign  of  thirty- 
five  years  made  the  Georgians  happy  by  his  administration. 
His  ruin  was  at  length  occasioned  by  an  unfortunate  piece  of 
generosity.  In  a  contest  between  Mowid  Addaulet  and  Faker 
Addaulet,  two  rival  princes  of  the  house  of  Bowiah,  the  latter 
had  been  overcome  by  his  brother,  and  with  difficulty  escaped 


426  APPENDIX. 


into  Georgia,  where  Shems  Almaali  afforded  him  an  asylum. 
Mowid  Addaulet  considered  the  kindness  shown  to  his  brother 
as  an  insult  to  himself,  and  in  revenge  he  overran  Georgia  with 
a  numerous  army,  and  obliged  Faker  Addaulet  and  Shems 
Almaali  to  fly  for  refuge  to  the  mountains  of  Khorassan.  For 
three  years  the  exiled  princes  led  a  wandering  and  uncomfortable 
life,  surrounded  by  danger  and  harassed  by  necessity ;  but  at 
the  end  of  that  period  Mowid  Addaulet  died,  and  Faker  Ad- 
daulet, without  opposition,  assumed  the  sceptre  of  Persia.  With 
unparalleled  ingratitude,  Faker  Addaulet  refused  to  restore  Shems 
Almaali  to  his  hereditary  dominions,  and  the  unfortunate  prince 
remained  fourteen  years  longer  in  exile.  At  length  Faker  Ad- 
daulet died,  and  Shems  Almaali  re<assumed  the  government  of 
Georgia.  He  found  many  abuses  had  crept  into  the  state,  which 
he  determined  to  correct ;  but  the  great  men  who  profited  by 
them  conspired  to  deprive  him  once  more  of  power,  and  during 
the  absence  of  his  son  he  was  seized  and  thrown  into  prison, 
where  the  aged  monarch  perished  of  cold  on  the  bare  ground. 

After  the  character  given  of  Shems  Almaali,  it  is  almost 
superfluous  to  add  that  he  was  a  patron  of  literature.  His  court 
abounded  with  men  of  genius  from  all  parts  of  the  East,  amongst 
whom  was  the  celebrated  Avicenna,  who  lived  many  years  under 
his  protection. 

[This  little  poem  of  Shamsu-'1-Ma*all  (?>.,  "  Sun  of  the  Higher 
Regions'*)  Qabus  was  probably  composed  during  his  exile  in 
Khorassan. — The  ideas  expressed  in  the  last  six  lines  of  Carlyle's 
translation,  which  fairly  represents  the  original,  are  identical  with 
some  of  those  contained  in  the  second  of  Mr.  Payne's  specimens 
of  the  Poetry  of  the  **  Thousand  and  One  Nights,"  as  given  in 
pp.  367,  368  of  the  present  volume,  which,  there  can  be  little 
doubt,  is  a  variant  of  the  Georgian  monarch's  poem.] 

ON   LIFE — p.    134. 

[A  Parallel  to  the  sentiment  contained  in  these  verses — but 
far  less  elegantly  expressed — is  found  in  an  old  Greek  epigram, 
which  Major  Robert  Guthrie   Macgregor  has  thus  translated 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS,  427 


("Greek  Anthology,  with  Notes  Critical  and  Explanatory," 
Sect,  vii.,  148,  p.  567) : 

Death  dogs  us  all :  we're  fattened  as  a  flock 
Of  swine,  in  turn,  for  slaughter  on  the  block. 

In  BuddhfCs  Dammapada^  or  Path  of  Virtue,  rendered  into 
English  by  Professor  F.  Max  Mliller,  and  prefixed  to  Captain 
Rogers'  translation  of  Buddhaghosha^ s  Parables^  is  the  following 
apothegm :  "  Death  carries  off  a  man  who  is  gathering  flowers,  and 
whose  mind  is  distracted,  as  a  flood  carries  off  a  sleeping  village."] 

EXTEMPORE  VERSES,  BY  EBN  ALRAMACRAM — p.  1 36. 

The  occasion  of  this  jeu  (Pesprit  is  thus  related  by  Abulfeda  : 
Carawash,  Sultan  of  Mousel,  being  one  wintry  evening  engaged 
in  a  party  of  pleasure  along  with  Barkaidy,  Ebn  Farlhi,  Abu 
Jaber,  and  the  improvisatore  poet  Ebn  Alramacram,  resolved  to 
divert  himself  at  the  expense  of  his  companions.  He  therefore 
ordered  the  poet  to  give  a  specimen  of  his  talents,  which  at  the 
same  time  should  convey  a  satire  upon  the  three  courtiers,  and 
a  compliment  to  himself.  Ebn  Alramacram  took  his  subject 
from  the  stormy  appearance  of  the  night,  and  immediately  pro- 
duced these  verses. 

ALI   BEN    MOHAMMED   ALTAHMANY — p.    1 37. 

Ali  Ben  Mohammed  was  a  native  of  that  part  of  Arabia  called 
Hijaz,  and  is  celebrated  not  only  as  a  poet  but  as  a  politician. 
In  the  latter  of  these  characters  he  undertook  a  commission  at 
the  request  of  the  Emir  Alomra  of  Bagdad,  the  object  of  which 
was  to  excite  an  insurrection  at  Cairo,  against  the  Egyptian 
Khalif  Taher  Liazaz;  but  being  detected  in  his  intrigues,  he 
was  thrown  into  prison,  about  A.H.  416  [a.d.  1025],  and  soon 
after  suffered  death. 

ABU  ALCASSIM  EBN  TABATABA  — p.  1 38. 

Tabataba  deduced  his  pedigree  from  Ali  Ben  Abu  Taleb,  and 
Fatima,  the  daughter  of  Mohammed.     He  was  born  at  Ispahan, 


428  APPENDIX, 


but  passed  the  principal  part  of  his  life  in  Egypt,  where  he  was 
appointed  chief  of  the  scherefFs — />.,  descendants  of  the  Prophet, 
a  dignity  held  in  the  highest  veneration  by  every  Muslim.  He 
died  A.H.  418  [a.d.  1027],  with  the  reputation  of  being  one  of 
the  most  excellent  poets  of  his  time. 

AHMED    BEN   YOUSEF   ALMENAZY — p.    1 3 9. 

Ben  Yousef  for  many  years  acted  as  vizier  to  Abu  Nasser, 
Sultan  of  Diarbeker.  His  political  talents  are  much  praised  ; 
and  he  is  particularly  celebrated  for  the  address  he  displayed 
while  upon  an  embassy  to  the  Greek  emperor  at  Constantinople. 
His  passion  for  literature  appears  to  have  been  extreme.  The 
greater  part  of  his  leisure  hours  were  devoted  to  study ;  and  siich 
was  his  assiduity  in  collecting  books,  that  he  was  able  to  form 
two  very  large  libraries,  the  one  at  Miaferakin  and  the  other  at 
Amid,  which  for  some  centuries  after  his  death  were  considered 
as  the  great  fountains  of  instruction  for  all  Asia. 

THE   SULTAN   CARAWASH — ^p.    140. 

The  life  of  this  prince  was  chequered  with  various  adventures : 
he  was  perpetually  engaged  in  contests  either  with  neighbouring 
sovereigns  or  with  the  princes  of  his  own  family.  For  several 
years,  however,  he  maintained  himself  in  the  possession  of  his 
little  kingdom,  and  during  this  period  rendered  Mousel  the  seat 
of  science  and  literature.  But  in  the  year  of  the  Hijra  442 
[a.d.  1050]  he  was  obliged  to  submit  to  his  brother  Abu  Camel, 
who  caused  him  to  be  conveyed  to  a  place  of  security,  where, 
however,  he  was  treated  with  every  consideration  for  his  rank 
and  years  until  after  his  brother's  death,  when  it  is  said  he  was 
murdered  by  the  inhuman  hands  of  his  own  nephew. 

ABU   ALOLA — p.    I4I. 

Abu  Alola  is  esteemed  one  of  the  most  excellent  of  the  Arabian 
poets.     He  was  born  blind,  or  at  least  lost  his  sight  at  a  very 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS,  429 


early  age;  but  this  did  not  deter  him  from  the  pursuit  of 
literature.  To  prosecute  his  studies  with  more  advantage,  he 
travelled  from  Maara,  the  place  of  his  nativity,  to  Bagdad, 
where  he  spent  a  few  months  in  attending  the  lectures  of  the 
different  professors  at  the  academy  of  that  city,  and  in  conversing 
with  the  learned  men  who  resorted  thither  from  all  parts  of  the 
East.  After  this  short  stay  in  Bagdad,  he  returned  to  his  native 
cottage,  which  he  never  again  quitted.  But  notwithstanding  the 
difficulties  he  laboured  under,  and  the  few  advantages  he  had 
received  from  education,  **  he  lived,"  according  to  Abulfeda, 
"to  know  that  his  celebrity  spread  from  the  sequestered  village 
which  he  inhabited  to  the  utmost  confines  of  the  globe. " — Abu 
Alola  died  at  Maara  a.h.  449  [A.D.  X057],  aged  86.  He 
attempted  every  species  of  poetry,  and  succeeded  in  all. 

NEDHAM   ALMOLK. — p.   1 42. 

The  character  and  fate  of  this  illustrious  statesman  are  thus  de- 
scribed by  Gibbon  :   "  In  a  period  when  Europe  was  plunged 
in  the  deepest  barbarism,  the  light  and  splendour  of  Asia  may 
be  ascribed  to  the  docility  rather  than  the  knowledge  of  the 
Turkish  conqueroi's.     An  ample  share  of  their  wisdom  and  virtue 
is  due  to  a   Persian  vizier  who  ruled  the  empire  under  Alp 
Arslan  and  his  son.     Nedham,  one  of  the  most  illustrious  minis- 
ters of  the  East,  was  honoured  by  the  Khalif  as  an  oracle  of  re- 
ligion and  science  ;  he  was  trusted  by  the  Sultan  as  the  faithful 
vicegerent  of  his  power  and  justice.     After  an  administration  of 
thirty  years,  the  fame  of  the  vizier,  his  wealth,  and  even  his  ser- 
vices were  transformed  into  crimes.     He  was  overthrown  by  the 
insidious  arts  of  a  woman  and  a  rival ;  and  his  fall  was  hastened 
by  a  rash  declaration  that  his  cap  and  inkhorn,  the  badges  of 
his  office,  were  connected  by  the  divine  decree  with  the  throne 
and  diadem  of  the  Sultan.     At  the  age  of  ninety-three  years 
the  venerable  statesman  was  dismissed  by  his  master,  accused 
by  his  enemies,  and  murdered  by  a  fanatic.    The  last  words  of 
Nedham  attested  his  innocence,  and  the  remainder  of  Malec's 
life  was  short  and  inglorious." 


430  APPENDIX, 


Malec  died  in  the  year  of  the  Hijra  465  [a.d.  1072],  and  with 
him  expired  the  greatness  and  union  of  the  Seljuk  empire. 

THE   PRINCESS   WALADATA — p.  1 43. 

Waladata,  the  daughter  of  a  Spanish  king  named  Mohammed 
Almostakfi  Billah,  was  bom  at  Cordova.  She  was  a  woman  no 
less  beautiful  than  talented.  She  was  devoted  to  the  study  of 
rhetoric  and  poetry  ;  she  cultivated  the  friendship  of  the  distin- 
guished  poets  of  her  age,  and  frequently  indulged  in  the  pleasure 
of  their  conversation.  In  writing  she  had  a  great  deal  of  wit  and 
acumen,  as  may  be  seen  from  this  distich. — Cassiri:  Bib.  Hisp, 

Almostakfi  was  the  last  Khalif  of  the  house  of  'Umayya  who 
reigned  in  Spain. 

THE   SULTAN   MOTAMMED   BEN   ABAD — ^p.    I44. 

Seville  was  one  of  those  small  sovereignties  into  which  Spain 
had  been  divided  after  the  extinction  of  the  house  of  *Umayya. 
It  did  not  long  retain  its  independence,  and  the  only  prince  who 
ever  presided  over  it  as  a  separate  kingdom  seems  to  have  been 
Motammed  Ben  Abad,  the  author  of  these  verses.  For  thirty- 
three  years  he  reigned  over  Seville  and  the  neighbouring  districts 
with  considerable  reputation,  but  being  attacked  by  Joseph,  son 
of  the  emperor  of  Morocco,  at  the  head  of  a  numerous  army  of 
Africans,  was  defeated,  taken  prisoner,  and  thrown  into  a  dungeon, 
where  he  died,  A.H.  488  [a.d.  1095]. 

ALI  BEN  ABD  ALGANY,  OF  CORDOVA — p.  1 46. 

This  author  was  by  birth  an  African,  but  having  passed  over  to 
Spain,  he  was  much  patronised  by  Motammed,  Sultan  of  Seville. 
After  the  fall  of  his  master,  Ben  Abd  returned  into  Africa,  and 
died  at  Tangier,  a.h.  488  [a.d.  1095]. — Ben  Abd  wrote  at  a 
time  when  Arabic  literature  was  u|X}n  the  decline  in  Spain,  and 
his  verses  are  not  very  unlike  the  compositions  of  our  own  meta- 
physical poets  of  the  17th  century. 

[The  Arabian  conquerors  of  Spain  introduced  the  gallant  cus- 
tom of  serenading  their  mistresses,  on  which  occasion,  not  only 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  431 

the  words  of  their  songs,  but  the  airs,  and  even  the  colour  of  their 
habits,  were  expressive  of  the  triumph  of  the  fortunate,  or  the 
despair  of  the  rejected  lover.  The  JCitar — whence  our  guitar, 
from  the  Spanish  guUarra — was  their  favourite  instrument — 
Richardson, 

The  idea  expressed  in  the  first  stanza  of  this  serenade — the 
comparison  of  the  eye  of  his  sleeping  mistress  to  a  sheathed 
sword — is  identical  with  a  verse  of  Antara's  beautiful  poem 
beginning  :  "  When  the  breezes  blow  from  Mount  Sa*dl,"  &c., 
where  the  poet  says  of  his  darling  Abia  (p.  198, 1.  4,  ^  seq,) : 

"  She  draws  her  sword  from  the  glances  of  her  eyelashes,  sharp 
and  penetrating  as  the  blade  of  her  forefathers,  and  with  it  her 
eyes  kill,  though  it  be  sheathed." 

Again,  in  the  verses  recited  by  Antara  before  King  Mundhir 
(foot  of  page  217) : 

'*  The  eyelashes  of  the  songstress  from  the  comer  of  the  veil 
are  more  cutting  than  the  edge  of  cleaving  scimitars." 

The  Persian  poet  Hafiz  employs  the  same  comparison  : 

"  The  glance  of  the  cup-bearer  is  an  unsheathed  sword  for  the 
destruction  of  the  understanding." 

And  the  Afghan  poet,  Khushhal  Khan,  Khattak  ("Selections 
from  the  Poetry  of  the  Afghans,"  by  Major  Raverty,  page  188) : 

I  am  intoxicated  with  that  countenance,  which  hath  sleepy, 

languid  eyes  : 
By  them  I  become  all  cut  and  gashed — thou  wouldst  say  those 

eyes  sharp  swords  contain. 

Other  illustrations  of  this  similitude  are  given  in  Notes  on 
the  Poetry  of  the  Romance  of  Antar.] 

ISAAC   BEN   KHALIF — p.    1 5  2. 

[Carlyle  furnishes  no  particulars  regarding  this  author,  nor  does 
he  state  whence  the  jeu  d^ esprit  which  he  translates  was  taken. 
Mr.  Lyall,  in  his  "  Tninslations  from  the  Hamdsa  and  Aghdni^^ 
gives  a  fragment  by  Ishaq  son  of  Khalaf,  who  was  probably  the 


432  APPENDIX. 


same  with  our  author.  This  fragment  is  of  a  very  different  cast 
from  the  amusing  epigram  paraphrased  by  Carlyle  :  it  expresses 
the  author's  anxiety  as  to  the  possible  fate  of  his  daughter  when 
he  is  dead.  Mr.  Lyall  infuses  into  his  translations  so  much  of 
the  real  spirit  of  Arabic  poetry,  and  the  verses  in  question  are 
so  peculiarly  interesting,  that  the  temptation  to  reproduce  his 
rendering  of  them  in  this  connection  is  simply  irresistible  : 

1.  If  no  Umeymeh  were  there,  no  want  would  trouble  my  soul — 

no  labour  call  me  to  toil  for  bread  through  pitchiest  night ; 

2.  What  moves  my  longing  to  live  is  but  that  well  do  I  know 

how  low  the  fatherless  lies — ^how  hard  the  kindness  of  kin. 

3.  I  quake  before  loss  of  wealth  lest  lacking  fall  upon  her, 

and  leave  her  shieldless  and  bare  as  flesh  set  forth  on  a 
board. 

4.  My  life  she  prays  for,  and  I  from  mere  love  pray  for  her 

death — 
yea,  Death,  the  gentlest  and  kindest  guest  to  visit  a  maid. 

J.  I  fear  an  uncle's  rebuke,  a  brother's  harshness  for  her  : 

my  chiefest  end  was  to  spare  her  heart  the  grief  of  a  word. 


These  explanatory  Notes  on  the  above  are  also  by  Mr.  Lyall : 

v.  3.  "  Meat  on  a  butcher's  board  "  is  a  proverbial  expression 
for  that  which  is  utterly  defenceless  and  helpless. 

v.  4.  The  scholiast  compares  the  proverbs  (both  current  in  the 
Ignorance) — **  An  excellent  son-in-law  is  the  Grave,"  and  **  To 
bury  daughters  is  an  act  of  mercy ; "  the  reference  in  the  latter  is 
to  the  practice  of  burying  female  children  alive  immediately  after 
birth,  which  was  still  prevalent  (though  not  widely  spread)  among 
the  pagan  Arabs  at  the  time  of  the  Prophet's  mission.  The  lot 
of  women  among  the  Arabs  of  the  Ignorance  was  a  hard  one ; 
and  it  is  most  probable  that  the  practice  in  question  was  per- 
petuated,  if  it  did  not  begin,  in  the  desire  to  save  the  family  the 
shame  of  seeing  its  women  ill-used  or  otherwise  disgraced. 


NOTES  ON  SHOKTER  POEMS,  433 


V.  5.  He  looks  forward  to  the  time  when  his  daughter 
will  be  left  fatherless,  and  find  no  love  such  as  that  which  she 
found  in  him. 


Of  the  author,  Mr.  Lyall  has  been  able  to  ascertain  nothing. 
The  fragment,  as  shown  in  the  the  rh3rme  of  the  first  hemistich 
of  the  original,  is  the  beginning  of  a  qasida.  By  his  name 
(Ishaq),  Mr.  Lyall  thinks  the  author  should  be  a  Muslim,  since 
but  one  authentic  instance  is  known  of  a  biblical  name  being 
borne  by  an  Arab,  who  was  not  a  Jew ;  yet  the  sentiment  of 
V.  4  is  rather  pagan  than  Islamic] 

LAMIAT  ALAJEM — ^p.  1 53. 

Abu  Ismael  was  a  native  of  Ispahan.  He  devoted  himself  to 
the  service  of  the  Seljuk  Sultans  of  Persia,  and  enjoyed  the 
confidence  of  Malek  Shah,  and  bis  son  and  grandson,  Mohammed 
and  Massoud,  by  the  last  of  whom  he  was  raised  to  the  dignity 
of  vizier.  Massoud,  however,  was  not  long  in  a  condition  to 
afford  Abu  Ismael  any  protection ;  for  being  attacked  by  his 
brother  Mahmoud,  he  was  defeated  and  driven  from  Mousel, 
and  on  the  fall  of  his  master  the  vizier  was  seized  and  throMm 
into  prison,  and  at  length,  in  the  year  515  [a.d.  1 121],  sentenced 
to  be  put  to  death.  This  poem  seems  to  have  been  composed 
in  the  interval  of  time  between  the  flight  of  Massoud  and  the 
imprisonment  of  Abu  Ismael ;  at  least  it  breathes  such  senti- 
ments as  we  might  expect  from  a  man  in  a  similar  situation. 
This  composition  has  obtained  more  general  approbation 
than  almost  any  poem  extant  in  the  East ;  it  is  celebrated  by 
the  historians,  commented  on  by  the  critics,  and  quoted  by  the 
people.  I  have  therefore  given  it  entire  from  the  edition  of 
Dr.  Pocock. — The  extreme  popularity  of  this  production  is  a 
striking  proof  of  the  decay  of  all  true  taste  amongst  the  Orientals : 
it  were  otherwise  impossible  that  they  could  prefer  the  laboured 
conceits  and  tinsel  ornaments  of  Abu  Ismael  to  the  simplicity  of 
the  bards  of  Yemen,  and  the  elegance  of  the  poets  of  Bagdad. 

2  E 


434  APPENDIX, 


[Such  is  our  translator's  estimate  of  the  Lamijryatu-^l-'Ajem, 
to  which,  whatever  may  be  its  shortcomings,  his  own  rendering 
into  English  verse  has  certainly  not  done  justice.  It  were  much 
to  be  wished  that  Carlyle  had  endeavoured  to  preserve  in  his 
translation  the  external  form,  at  least,  of  the  original  verses  ;  but 
this  could  hardly  have  been  expected  perhaps  in  an  age  when  our 
own  English  poetry  was  characterised  by  an  absurd  affectation 
of  refined  "sensibility,"  and  was,  according  to  Lord  Byron,  as 
as  artificial  as  Carlyle  would  have  us  believe  this  poem  of 
Et-Tugra*i  to  be.  And  yet,  in  1758,  or  forty  years  before  the 
first  edition  (very  inaccurately  printed,  by  the  way)  of  Carlyle's 
"Specimens'*  was  published,  the  Lamiyj'atu-*l-*Ajein,  under 
the  title  of  "  The  Traveller  :  an  Arabic  Poem,"  was  "  rendered 
into  English  verse,  in  the  same  iambic  measure  as  the  original," 
by  Leonard  Chappelow,  B.D.,  of  Carlyle's  own  University  of 
Cambridge ;  of  which,  strange  to  say,  our  translator  makes  no 
mention.  And  it  may  here  be  remarked  as  not  less  strange, 
perhaps,  that  in  Lowndes*  BibliograpJut' s  Manual^  while 
Dr.  Pocock*s  Latin  version  of  the  original,  with  Notes,  and 
Chappelow's  English  translation  are  both  noticed,  no  mention 
is  made  of  Carlyle*s  later  rendering. 

This  poem  is  styled  Lamiyyatu-'l-*Ajem,  or  the  Lamiyya  of 
the  non-Arabs,  from  the  ravn^  or  binding  letter  of  the  rhyme 
running  through  the  piece,  which  is  the  Arabic  letter  called 
lam  (our  **  L  *') ;  and  from  the  author  of  it  being  a  Persian,  or 
foreigner :  the  Arabs  distinguishing  mankind  into  two  sections — 
first,  themselves,  *Arabs,  and  secondly,  *Ajem,  ?>.,  non- Arabs ; 
as  the  "Jews  and  Gentiles,**  "Greeks  and  Barbarians.**  The 
author  is  commonly  styled  Et-Tugra*I,  from  the  office  he  held 
lof  " Cypher- writer  to  the  King'* — Abu  Isma'Il  had  to  write  the 
king's  Tugrd^  or  cypher,  on  all  the  royal  edicts.  This  office  still 
exists  in  Turkey  :  the  holder  is  styled  Tugrd-kesh^  cypher-drawer, 
and  tevqll^  cypherer ;  formerly,  nishdnj\  marker.  The  Poet's  full 
name  was  Mu*ayyidu-'d-Din,  Hasan  (or  Husayn)  'bnu  *A1T,  Abu 
Isma^H,  Et-Tugra*i — which  signifies  :  Hasan,  son  of  *AlI,  father 
of  Isnia'il,  Supporter  of  the  Faith,  Cypher- Writer  to  the  Sulian. 


NOTES  ON  SHORTER  POEMS.  435 


A  still  more  remarkable  **L*  poem  is  the  Lamiyyatu-*l-*Arab 
of  the  renowned  pre-Islamite  brigand-poet  Shanfara*,  of  whose 
life  and  poetry  a  most  fascinating  account  is  given  by 
Mr.  W.  G.  Palgrave,  in  his  "Essays  on  Eastern  Questions." 
•* Nowhere, "says  Mr.  Palgrave,  **is  his  indomiuble  self-reliance 
more  savagely  expressed  than  in  this  famous  poem— famous  so 
long  as  Arab  literature  shall  exist ;  the  completest  utterance 
ever  given  of  a  mind  defying  its  age  and  all  around  it,  and 
reverting  to,  or  at  least  idealizing,  the  absolute  individualism 
of  the  savage.  It  is  a  monolith,  complete  in  itself ;  and  if  ever 
rendered  (though  I  doubt  the  possibility)  into  English  verse, 
must  stand  alone."] 

IBN   ALTALMITH — p.  1 66. 

About  the  middle  of  the  sixth  century  of  the  Hijra  there 
tived  in  the  East  three  physicians,  almost  equally  celebrated 
for  their  abilities.  They  were  all  sumamed  Hebat  Allah :  the 
Gift  of  God ;  and  each  professed  a  different  religion,  one  being 
a  Christian,  one  a  Muslim,  and  the  other  a  Jew.  The  first  of 
these— OUT  author — ^was  a  native  of  Bagdad,  and  according  to 
Abulfaraj,  *'the  elegance  of  his  manners  equalled  his  learning, 
and  the  sweetness  of  his  disposition  was  only  exceeded  by  the 
sublimity  of  his  genius."  Ibn  Altalmith  was  a  favourite  with 
all  the  princes  who  flourished  at  Bagdad  during  his  time ;  but 
with  Almoktafi  he  lived  as  a  friend.  He  died,  as  he  had  lived, 
professing  the  Christian  religion,  a.h.  560  [a.d.  1164],  at  the 
advanced  age  of  one  hundred.  His  last  words  are  preserved  by 
Abulfaraj,  and  prove  at  least  that  his  vivacity  was  unimpaired  to 
the  last :  "  Ibn  Altalmith  was  expiring  when  his  son  approached 
his  bed,  and  inquired  whether  there  was  anything  he  wished  for. 
Upon  which  the  old  man  in  a  faint  voice  exclaimed  :  '  I  only 
wish  that  I  could  wish  for  anything  !  *  " 

ON  THE  DEATH  OF  ABU  ALHASSAN  ALI — p.  1 67. 

The  young  man  whose  death  is  here  lamented  was  the  favourite 
son  and  intended  successor  of  Alnassar,  the  thirty-fourth  Khalif 


436  APPENDIX. 


of  the  house  of  Abbas.  On  his  death  the  Khalif  was  incoD' 
solable  :  he  resorted  frequently  to  the  tomb  of  his  son,  where  he 
shut  himself  up,  and  abandoned  himself  to  the  most  extravagant 
expressions  of  sorrow.  Nor  were  the  inhabitants  of  Bagdad  less 
affected  with  the  death  of  this  amiable  young  prince  :  there  was 
scarce  a  house  in  the  city,  we  are  told  by  a  historian,  which  did 
not  resound  with  lamentation,  nor  a  countenance  that  was  not 
depressed  by  grief. — Alnassar  died  a.h.  622  [A.D.  1225],  having 
survived  his  son  ten  years. 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR. 


PUBLIC   RECITERS   OF   ROMANCES   IN   THE   EAST. 

Von  Hammer's  statement  that  the  recitation  of  the  Romance 
of  Antar  fills  the  coffee-houses  of  the  East  must  be  taken  with 
the  qualification  that  there  are  several  other  Arabian  romances 
of  a  similar  character  which  are  still  more  popular.     Mr.  Lane 
furnishes  a  very  full  account  both  of  the  mode  of  public  recita- 
tion and  of  the  romances  themselves,  in  his  charming  work  on 
the  Manners  &c.  of  the  Modem  Egyptians.      *'The  reciter," 
he  informs  us,  "generally  seats  himself  upon  a  small  stool  on 
the  mastabah,  or  raised  seat  which  is  built  against  the  front  of 
the  coffee-shop ;  some  of  his  auditors  occupy  the  rest  of  that 
seat,  others  arrange  themselves  upon  the  mastabahs  of  the  houses 
on  the  opposite  side  of  the  narrow  street,  and  the  rest  sit  upon 
stools  or  benches  made  of  palm-sticks ;  most  of  them  with  the 
pipe  in  hand,  some  sipping  their  coffee,  and  all  highly  amused, 
not  only  with  the  story,  but  also  with  the  lively  and  dramatic 
manner  of  the  narrator.     The  reciter  receives  a  trifling  sum  of 
money  from  the  keeper  of  the  coffee-shop  for  attracting  cus- 
tomers :  his  hearers  are  not  obliged  to  contribute  anything  for  his 
remuneration ;  many  of  them  give  nothing,  and  few  give  more 
than  5  or  10  faddahs. "    (A  faddah  is  the  smallest  Egyptian  coin. 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR.      437 


value,  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  farthing.)  The  most  numerous  class 
of  public  reciters  in  Cairo  are  called  Sho'ar^  (singular  Shd'er, 
properly,  a  poet),  all  of  whom  recite  only  the  Romance  of  Aboo 
Zeyd.  *'  The  Sha'er  recites  without  book.  Poetry  he  chants, 
and  after  every  verse  pla3rs  a  few  notes  on  a  viol  which  has  but 
a  single  chord,  and  which  is  called  'the  Poet's  viol  *  from  its 
only  being  used  in  these  recitations.  The  reciter  generally  has 
an  attendant  with  another  instrument  of  the  kind  to  accompany 
him.*'  Next  in  point  of  numbers  are  the  Mohadditeen,  or 
Story-tellers  (singular,  Mohaddit),  who  exclusively  recite  the 
Romance  of  £z-Zahir,  without  book.  "There  is  in  Cairo  a 
third  class  of  reciters  of  romances,  who  are  called  'Andtireh,  or 
^Antereeyeh  (in  the  singular  *Anteree),  but  they  are  much  less 
numerous  than  either  of  the  two  classes  before  mentioned.  They 
bear  this  appellation  from  the  chief  subject  of  their  recitations, 
which  is  the  Romance  of  'Antar  [Secret  ^Antar).  The  reciters 
of  it  read  it  from  the  book  :  they  chant  the  poetry,  but  the 
prose  they  read,  in  the  popular  manner ;  and  they  have  not 
the  accompaniment  of  the  rebab  [a  kind  of  viol].  As  the  poetry 
in  this  book  is  very  imperfectly  understood  by  the  vulgar,  those 
who  listen  to  it  are  mostly  persons  of  some  education.''  The 
Anatireh  also  recite  the  Romance  of  Delhemeh,  which  is  con- 
tained in  fifly-five  volumes,  or  ten  more  than  that  of  'Antar. 

CHARACTERS  OF  THE  ROMANCE. 

The  hero  himself — Antara  the  son  of  Sheddad — is  always  the 
central  figure :  his  blackness  of  complexion,  his  homeliness,  even 
ugliness,  of  feature,  are  forgotten  in  admiration  of  his  prodigious 
strength  of  arm  and  his  invincible  courage ;  his  lofty  and 
impassioned  verses ;  his  greatness  of  soul  and  his  tenderness 
of  heart.  A  true  knight,  sans  peur  et  sans  reproche,  is  Antara  : 
bold  as  a  lion  when  face  to  face  with  his  foes ;  magnanimous 
towards  an  inferior  antagonist ;  soft  and  gentle  when  he  thinks 
of  his  fair  cousin  Abia,  still  more  so  when  he  is  in  her  presence. 
Abla,  the  beauteous  Abla,  whose  dark  flowing  tresses  at  first 
ensnared  the  heart  of  the  hero,  and  whose  bright  eyes  completed 


438  APPENDIX. 


the  capture — ^a  true  Bedouin  damsel :  like  Desdemona  with  the 
Moor,  she  saw  Antara*s  beauty  in  his  mind.  And  Antara — 
spite  of  his  black  complexion — spite  of  his  base  birth — "loved 
her  with  the  love  of  a  noble-bom  hero ! "  When  the  enemy 
approaches  the  tents  of  the  tribe — ^when  the  time  has  come 
for  sword-blows  and  spear-thrusts — ^his  base  origin  is  forgotten  \ 
his  sword  is  then  his  father,  and  the  spear  in  his  right  hand  is  his 
noble  kinsman. 

The  other  characters  are  of  course  subordinated  to  the  hero 
and  his  achievements;  yet  each  has  an  individuality  which  is 
strongly  marked.  Zuhayr,  king  of  the  tribes  of  *Abs  and 
'Adnan,  Fazarah  and  Ghiftan,  &c. — ^a  prince  possessing  all  the 
virtues,  and  not  a  few  of  the  failings,  of  his  age  and  race : 
chivalrous  himself,  he  was  not  slow  to  recognise  in  the  youthful 
slave-son  of  Sheddad  the  future  hero.  Prince  Sha's,  naturally  ill* 
tempered,  proud  and  tyrannical,  yet  not  without  his  good  points, 
after  adversity  had  tamed  his  spirit.  Prince  Malek,  the  brave 
but  gentle  son  of  Zuhayr,  Antara*s  first  friend  and  protector 
against  the  malice  of  his  enemies :  ever  ready  to  plead  eloquently 
in  his  favour,  or  to  draw  his  sword  when  the  hero  was  over- 
whelmed with  numbers.  Sheddad,  the  father  of  Antara  :  a  bold 
fellow — '*of  a  heavy-handed  kin  :  a  good  smiter  when  help  is 
needed  *' — proud  of  his  pure  blood  as  ever  was  hidalgo,  yet 
yearning  towards  his  brave  son  when  his  deeds  were  noised 
abroad,  and  bitterly  lamenting  his  reported  death.  But  his 
simple-minded  slave-mother — ^like  mothers  of  great  men  in 
general — does  not  appreciate  her  son's  heroic  achievements — 
thinks  he  had  much  better  stay  at  home  and  help  her  to  tend  the 
flocks.  Malek,  the  father  of  Abla — crafty,  calculating,  sordid, 
perfidious,  malicious,  time-serving ;  withal,  a  great  stickler  for 
the  honour  of  his  family.  Aniara,  the  Bedouin  exquisite — ^proud, 
boastful,  at  heart  a  coward.  Shibub,  the  half-brother  of  Antara, 
and  his  trusty  squire — fleet  of  foot,  and  hence  sumamed  Father 
of  the  Wind  (not  Son  of  the  Wind,  as  stated  in  page  214); 
a  dexterous  archer;  ready  with  admirable  expedients  for  every 
emergency — never  had  brave  knight  a  more  useful  auxiliary. 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR.      439 


With  the  noble  lyric  of  the  hero's  death  the  curtain  is 
appropriately  dropped  on  the  stirring  drama.  The  moral  of  the 
story — for  a  moral  there  is  to  those  who  can  read  it  aright — ^is, 
the  triumph  of  a  lofty  mind  and  a  resolute  will  over  the  clogging 
circumstances  of  humble  birth  and  class  prejudice. 


THE   hero's    birth   AND   EARLY   YEARS — p.    1 83. 

The  circumstance  of  Antara's  birth  bears  some  resemblance  to 
that  of  Ishmael  the  son  of  Abraham,  by  his  bondwoman  Hagar. 
Intercourse  with  a  captured  slave  was  allowed  in  the  ages  before 
el-Islam,  as  a  third  and  lowest  form  of  marriage,  but  it  was 
strictly  prohibited  by  the  Prophet. — The  incident  of  the  insolent 
slave  who  abused  the  poor  people  at  the  well  presents  a  striking 
parallel  to  the  story  of  Moses  driving  away  the  shepherds  who 
would  not  allow  Jethro's  daughters  to  water  their  flocks. 

THE   maidens'    festival — p.   1 89. 

A  CURIOUS  illustration  of  the  unchangeableness  of  Eastern 
manners  is  furnished  in  this  description  of  a  merrymaking  among 
the  women  of  'Abs,  which,  in  its  circumstance, — the  damseb 
playing  on  cymbals  and  dancing, — though  not  in  its  object, 
Bnds  an  exact  parallel  in  the  festival  of  the  daughters  of 
Shiloh,  as  recorded  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  book  of  Judges,  at 
which  the  party  were  also  surprised  and  carried  away  captive. 

The  first  of  the  songs  at  this  festival  (p.  190),  describing 
the  charms  of  nature  in  the  early  springtide,  and  the  sentiment 
contained  in  the  three  last  verses — that  the  fleeting  moments 
ought  to  be  enjoyed — recall  the  beautiful  ode  on  spring  by  the 
celebrated  Turkish  poet  Mesihi  (who  died  in  1512),  of  which 
Sir  W.  Jones'  imitation  in  English  verse  has  been  much  admired : 
it  is,  however,  only  an  imitation,  and  therefore  must  fail  of  con- 
veying to  the  general  reader  an  adequate  notion  of  the  beauties  of 
the  original.  Mr.  £.  J.  W.  Gibb,  a  young  Turkish  scholar  (who  is 
at  present  rendering  into  English  the  great  work  of  Sa*du-'d-Dm, 


440  APPENDIX, 


the  historian  of  the  Ottoman  Empire,  Tdju't-Tevdrikh^  or  "The 
Diadem  of  Histories"),  has  made  the  following  almost  literal 
translation  of  Mesihi's  ode,  reproducing,  as  closely  as  possible,  the 
original  metre  and  rhyme  {Hemel-i  Maqsiir) : 

MESIHI  'S  ODE  ON  SPRING. 

I. 
Hark  the  nightingale^s  sweet  burden:  "Now  have  come  the  days 

of  spring." 
Spread  they  fair  in  every  garden  feasts  of  joy,  a  maze  of  spring; 
There  the  almond-tree  its  blossoms,  silver,  scatters,  sprays  of 

spring :  (a) 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

II. 
Once  again  with  many  fiow'rets  gaily  decked  are  mead  and  plain; 
Tents  for  pleasure  have  the  blossoms  raised  in  every  rosy  lane. 
>\liocan  tell,  when  spring  hath  ended,  who  and  what  may  whole 

remain  ? — 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

III. 
All  the  alle3rsof  the  parterre  filled  with  Ahmed's  light  appear,  (b) 
Verdant  herbs  his  Comrades,  tulips  like  his  Family  bright  appear: 
O  ye  People  of  Muhammad  !  times  now  of  delight  appear : 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

IV. 

Sparkling  dew-drops  stud  the  lily's  leaf  like  sabre  broad  and  keen. 
Bent  on  merry  gipsy-party,  crowd  they  all  the  flow'ry  green  ; 
List  to  me,  if  thou  desirest,  these  beholding,  joy  to  glean : 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

V. 

Rose  and  tulip  like  to  lovely  maidens*  cheeks  all  beauteous  show. 
Whilst  the  dew-drops  like  the  jewels  in  their  ears  resplendent  glow ; 
Do  not  think,  thyself  beguiling,  things  will  aye  continue  so : 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR.      441 


VI. 

Rose,  anemone,  and  tulip— these,  the  garden's  noblest  flowers, 
Have  their  blood  shed  in  the  parterre  under  lightning-darts  and 

showers ;  (c) 
Thou  art  wise,  then  with  thy  comrades  fair  enjoy  the  fleeting 

hours : 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  dajrs  of  spring. 

VII. 

Past  and  gone  are  now  the  moments  when  the  ailing  herbs, 

opprest 
With  the  thought  of  buds,  the  sad  head  hung  upon  the  garden's 

breast; 
Come  is  now  the  time  when  hill  and  rock  with  tulips  dense  are 

drest: 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

VIII. 

Whilst  each  dawn  the  clouds  are  shedding  jewels  o'er  the  rosy 

land. 
And  the  breath  of  morning's  zephyr,  fraught  with  Tatar  musk,  is 

bland ;  (d) 
Whilst  the  world's  fair  time  is  present,  do  not  thou  unheeding 

stand: 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

IX. 

With  the  fragrance  of  the  garden  so  imbued  the  musky  air, 
Every  dew-drop  ere  it  reaches  earth  is  turned  to  attar  rare ; 
O'er  the  parterre  spread  the  incense-clouds  a  canopy  right  fair : 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

X. 

Whatsoe'er  the  garden  boasted,  smote  the  black  autumnal  blast, 
But,  to  each  one  justice  bringing,  back  hath  come  Earth's  King 

at  last ;  (e) 
In  his  reign  joyed  the  cup-bearer,  round  the  call  for  wine  is  past : 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 


442  APPENDIX. 


XI. 

Fondly  do  I  hope,  Mesihi,  fame  to  these  quatrains  may  cling ; 
May  the  worthy  these  four-eyebrowed  beauties  oft  to  mem'iy 

bring  \—(f) 
Stray  amidst  the  rosy  faces,  then,  thou  bird  that  sweet  dost  sing: 
Gaily  live,  for  quick  will  vanish,  biding  not,  the  days  of  spring. 

Notes. 

(a)  The  almond-blossoms  are  here  compared  to  the  silver 
coins  scattered  at  weddings. 

(b)  The  parterre  is  the  world  (of  Islam),  the  garden  or  mead 
being  its  symbol.  The  *  *  light  of  Ahmed  "  (Nur-i  Ahmed)  means 
primarily  **  the  Glory  of  Muhammad";  but  it  seems  also  to  be  th6 
name  of  some  flower;  and,  lastly,  probably  refers  to  some  Turkish 
victory  recently  gained,  or  peace  concluded. 

(c)  This  again  may  allude  to  some  battle  in  which  many  illus- 
trious Turks  fell. 

(d)  The  musk  of  Tatary,  especially  that  of  Khoten,  is  the 
most  esteemed. 

(e)  Earth's  King  is  in  one  sense  the  Sun,  in  another  the 
Sultan. 

(f)  "May  the  worthy",  j.^.,  may  those  who  appreciate  these 
verses,  &c. — A  youth  with  new  moustaches  is  called  "four-eye- 
browed."  The  "four-eyebrowed  beauties  "  are  the  verses  of  four 
hemistichs  each. — It  is  usual  for  the  poet  to  address  himself  in 
the  last  verse  of  compositions  of  this  kind. 


Mr.  J.  W.  Redhouse  has  already  done  somewhat  to  disabuse 
the  popular  mind  of  the  utterly  erroneous  notion  that  the 
Ottomans  have  produced  no  men  of  undoubted  genius — no  poets 
worthy  of  the  name — by  his  excellent  little  treatise  on  the 
"  History,  System,  and  Varieties  of  Turkish  Poetry;  with  illustra- 
tions in  the  original  and  in  English  paraphrase,"  published  by 
Messrs.  Triibner  &  Co.,  London.  And  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  the 
above  pleasing  translation  may  indicate  that  Mr.  Gibb  intends 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR,      443 

following  the  ejcample  of  that  eminent  Orientalist,  by  giving  his 
nnlearned  countrymen  further  specimens  of  the  Ottoman  muse. 

A  variant  of  the  other  song  at  the  maidens'  festival  (pp.  190, 
191)  occurs  in  the  "Thousand  and  One  Nights,"  and  has  been 
translated  by  Mr.  Payne,  who  reproduces  the  original  metre  and 
rhyme,  as  follows : 

The  meadow  glitters  with  the  troops  of  lovely  ones  that  wander 

there ; 
Its  grace  and  beauty  doubled  are  by  these  that  are  so  passing  fair: 
Virgins  that  with  their  swimming  gait  the  hearts  of  all  that  see 

ensnare ; 
Upon  whose  necks,  like  trails  of  grapes,  stream  down  the  tresses 

of  their  hair ; 
Proudly  they  walk,  with  eyes  that  dart  the  shafts  and  arrows  of 

despair : 
And  all  the  champions  of  the  world  are  slain  by  their  seductive 

snare. 

'adite  helmets — ^p.  191. 

Casques  were  perhaps  so  called  to  denote  their  antiquity  and 
durability — "old  as  the  time  of  *Ad  "  being  a  proverb  among 
the  Arabs.  (See  notes  on  vv.  11  and  22  of  the  *'Lay  of  the 
Himyarites,"  Bp.  351,  352.) 

THE  SWORD   DHAMI — p.  204. 

This  marvellous  weapon  (the  word  Dhanii  signifies  "subdu- 
ing ")  is  worthy  of  a  place  beside  the  famous  Excalibar  of  King 
Arthur,  and  the  Durindana  of  Orlando.  There  is  a  grim  humour 
in  the  account  given  of  the  old  chief  Teba's  mode  of  proving 
himself  qualified  to  wield  the  Dhami,  by  striking  off  the  head  of 
the  unfortunate  smith  who  forged  it.  The  incident  calls  to  mind 
a  story  of  Muley  Ismael,  emperor  of  Morocco,  who  died  in  the 
year  17 14,  after  a  long  reign.  An  English  shipmaster  once 
presented  this  monarch  with  a  curious  hatchet,  which  he  received 


444  APPENDIX, 


very  graciously,  and  then,  asking  him  whether  it  had  a  good 
edge,  he  tried  it  upon  the  donor,  who,  adroitly  stepping  aside, 
escaped  with  the  loss  only  of  his  right  ear. — It  is  possible,  how- 
ever, that  the  Arab  chief  was  not  actuated  by  mere  wantonness  in 
thus  slaying  the  clever  artizan:  his  object  may  have  been  to 
prevent  the  smith  from  ever  making  a  still  more  formidable 
weapon  for  some  hostile  warrior.  Instances  are  not  wanting  in 
European  tradition  of  ingenious  men  being  put  to  death  from 
a  similar  motive,  after  having  constructed  some  wonderful 
building  or  piece  of  complicated  mechanism.  At  all  events,  the 
man  who  made  the  Dhami  having  been  killed  immediately  after 
he  had  finished  his  task,  the  weapon  was  necessarily  unique : 
there  could  not  be  another  Dhami  in  the  world. 

COMBAT  OF  ANTARA  AND  THE   SATRAP — ^p.  220. 

It  seems  to  have  been  a  practice  of  remote  antiquity  for  two 
contending  armies  to  agree  to  abide  by  the  result  of  a  single 
combat  between  their  chosen  champions ;  though  very  often 
such  a  combat  was  followed  by  a  general  engagement.  The 
historical  books  of  the  Bible  furnish  several  instances  of  combats 
of  this  kind :  that  between  David  and  Goliath  (i  Sam.  xvii. 
38-51)  is  a  remarkable  example;  and  another  is  the  battle 
between  the  men  of  Abner  and  the  men  of  Joab  (2  Sam.  ii. 
15,  16).  In  the  Romance  of  Antar  single  combats  are  of  fre- 
quent occurrence.  The  haughty  manner  in  whifch  the  warriors 
address  each  other  before  engaging  in  deadly  conflict  was  com- 
mon to  the  heroes  of  antiquity.  "  Come  to  me,"  said  Goliath 
to  David,  "  and  I  will  give  thy  flesh  to  the  fowls  of  the  air,  and 
to  the  beasts  of  the  field. "  In  like  manner  exclaims  a  hero  of 
the  Skdhndma  (Book  of  Kings,  or  Heroes)  of  Firdausi,  the 

Homer  of  Persia : 

I  am  myself  Hujer, 

The  valiant  champion,  come  to  conquer  thee, 

And  to  lop  off  that  towering  head  of  thine. 

From  the  minute  descriptions  of  the  arms  and  armour  of  the 
combatants,  as  well  of  their  mode  of  attack,  it  would  appear 


AOTES  ON  7://E  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR,      445 


that  chivalry,  in  all  its  essential  particulars,  was  an  institution  in 
the  East  long  before  it  was  regularly  established  in  Europe.  The 
satrap  whom  Antara  encounters  and  kills  (p.  221)  is  encased  in 
a  complete  suit  of  mail  "  of  Davidean  workmanship  "  (see  Mr. 
Redhouse's  note  on  v.  51  of  Ka*b's  Mantle  Poem)  and  plumed 
helmet,  and  armed  with  sword,  mace,  shield,  &c. — precisely 
like  the  European  knights. 

Nor  was  knight-errantry  unknown  to  Asiatic  chivalry.  Mention 
is  made  by  Oriental  historians  of  a  Persian  knight  who  was 
sumamed  Rezm  Kkah — 1.^.,  **one  who  goes  in  quest  of  adven- 
tures ;'*  and  of  two  famous  Arabian  knights-errant :  one  named 
Abii  Mohammed  el-Batal,  who  wandered  everywhere  in  search 
of  adventures  and  redressing  grievances,  and  who  was  killed 
A.H.  121  (A.D.  738);  the  other  was  a  great  grandson  of  the 
Khalif  Abii  Bekr,  named  Ja*far  es-Sadik — eminent  for  his 
piety  and  extensive  knowledge  as  well  as  for  his  feats  of  arms — 
who  died  in  the  reign  of  Almansor,  a.h.  147  (a.d.  764). 

ANTARA  AT  THE  PERSIAN  COURT — p.  222. 

Khusrau,  Chosroe,  or  Chosroes,  was  the  general  title  of  the 
Sassanides,  or  third  dynasty  of  Persia :  as  Csesar  was  that  of  the 
Roman  emperors  ;  Pharaoh,  of  the  Egyptian  kings ;  and  Tobba', 
of  the  princes  of  el-Yemen. — The  Chosroe  who  occupied  the 
Persian  throne  at  this  time  was  the  celebrated  Nushirvan 
the  Just.  Sa'dl,  in  his  Bdstdn,  records  the  dying  injunctions 
of  this  wise  and  good  king  to  his  son  and  successor  : 

"I  have  heard  that  King  Nushirvan,  just  before  his  death, 
spoke  thus  to  his  son  Hormuz  :  '  Be  a  guardian,  my  son,  to  the 
poor  and  helpless ;  and  be  not  confined  in  the  chains  of  thine 
own  indolence.  No  one  can  be  at  ease  in  thy  dominions  while 
thou  seekest  only  thy  private  rest,  and  sayest :  *'  It  is  enough." 
A  wise  man  will  not  approve  the  shepherd  wlio  sleeps  while  the 
wolf  is  in  the  fold.  Go,  my  son,  protect  thy  weak  and  indigent 
people,  since  through  them  is  a  king  raised  to  the  diadem.  The 
people  are  the  root,  and  the  king  is  the  tree  that  grows  from  it; 
and  the  tree,  O  my  son,  derives  its  strength  from  the  root.' " 


446  APPENDIX, 


ANTARA  AND  THK  WRESTLER — ^p.   230. 

Wrestling,  says  Atkinson,  "is  a  favourite  sport  in  the 
East.  From  Homer  down  to  Statius,  the  Greek  and  Roman 
poets  have  introduced  wrestling  in  their  epic  poems.  Wrestlers, 
like  gladiators  at  Rome,  are  exhibited  in  India  on  a  variety 
of  occasions.  Prize  wrestlers  were  formerly  common  in  almost 
every  European  country." — Sa'di,  in  the  first  book  of  his  GUli^n^ 
tells  a  story  of  a  professor  {ustdd)  of  wrestling  who  had  taught 
a  certain  pupil  every  trick  of  his  art  except  one,  and  who 
was  enabled  by  this  reservation  to  overcome  the  presump- 
tuous young  man,  when,  confiding  in  his  youth  and  superior 
strength,  he  had  insultingly  challenged  his  master  to  contend 
before  the  King.  "  He  lifted  him,**  says  Sa*di,  **  above  his 
head,  and  dashed  him  down.  Loud  plaudits  ascended  from 
the  people.  The  king  bestowed  an  honourable  present  on  the 
master,  and  upbraided  the  youth,  who  said  :  '  O  my  sovereign  ! 
one  little  portion  of  the  wrestling  art  yet  remained,  which  he 
withheld  from  me.* — The  master  replied :  *  For  such  an  occasion 
as  this,  I  reserved  it ;  because  the  philosophers  have  thus  advised : 
Give  not  your  friend  so  much  power  that  should  he  become  your 
enemy,  he  may  be  able  to  hurt  you.** 

J  AID  A,   THE   FEMALE  WARRIOR — p.  26 1. 

The  Romance  of  Delhama  furnishes  a  counterpart  to  the 
renowned  Jaida,  in  a  damsel  named  El-Gunduba,  who,  from 
her  warlike  exploits.  Was  styled  Kattdlet-esk-Shug*dn^  or  Slayer 
of  Heroes.  And  we  read  of  another  female  warrior,  named 
Gurd-afrid,  in  the  Skdhndma  : 

Quickly  in  arms  magnificent  arrayed, 
A  foaming  palfrey  bore  the  martial  maid  ; 
The  burnished  mail  her  tender  limbs  embraced ; 
Beneath  her  helm  her  clustering  locks  she  placed ; 
Poised  in  her  hand  an  iron  javelin  gleamed. 
And  o*er  the  ground  its  sparkling  lustre  streamed : 
Accoutred  thus,  in  manly  guise,  no  eye, 
However  piercing,  could  her  sex  descry. 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR.      447 


It  isy  however,  contended  by  a  learned  French  Orientalist,  that 
before  the  time  of  el-Islam  Arabian  women  did  not  engage  in 
warfare. 

DEATH   OF   KING  ZOHEIR — ^p.  285. 

It  is  a  historical  fact  that  Zoheir  son  of  Jazima  was  slain  by 
Khalid,  who  was  murdered  by  Hareth  in  the  private  tents  of 
King  Numan ;  and  this  was  the  cause  of  many  wars.  It  is  also 
stated  that  Hareth  in  vain  sought  the  protection  of  other  tribes 
to  secure  him  from  Numan's  vengeance. — Note  by  Translator. 

A   HORSE  RACE,    ETC — p.  287. 

The  race  between  King  Cais'  [Qeys]  horse  Dahis  and  Hadifah's 
mare  Ghabra  is  historically  true ;  in  consequence  of  which  a 
war  was  kindled  between  the  two  tribes  that  lasted  forty  years  ; 
and  it  became  .a  proverb  amongst  the  Arabs,  so  that  when- 
ever a  very  serious  dispute  arose  they  would  say,  "  the 
battle  of  Dahis  and  Ghabra  is  arisen." — Another  account  states 
that  Cais  was  the  owner  of  both  Dahis  and  Ghabra,  and  that 
Hadifah  was  possessed  of  two  mares  which  he  ran  against 
them.  That  Hadifah  injured  Dahis  is  also  confirmed  by  good 
authorities,  and  that  Ghabra  won  the  race  ;  but  Hadifah,  being 
dissatisfied,  raised  troubles  and  dissensions  which  lasted  forty 
years. — Note  by  Translator. 

Zuhayr's  Mo'allaqah  celebrates  the  termination  of  the  War  of 
Dahis. — It  is  said  that  to  atone  for  so  great  an  effusion  of  blood. 
King  Qeys  embraced  the  Christian  religion,  and  even  entered 
upon  the  monastic  state. 

ILLUSTRATIONS  OF   THE   POETRY. 

The  question,  which  of  the  numerous  poetical  fragments  inserted 
in  the  Romance  really  belong  to  Antara,  which  are  the  com- 
position of  El-Asma*i,  and  which  are  interpolations  of  different 
copyists,  is  not  likely  ever  to  be  satisfactorily  answered.  That 
some  of  them  are  the  genuine  reliques  of  Ancient  Arabic  Poetry 
is  allowed  by  the  most  distinguished  Orientalists  of  Europe. 


44B  APPENDIX. 


Many  of  the  effusions  ascribed  to  Antara  himself  are  of  the 
highest  poetical  excellence,  and,  in  boldness  of  imagery  and 
beauty  of  expression,  are  equal  if  not  superior  to  the  most 
admired  passages  of  his  famous  Mo'allaqah,  which,  indeed,  is 
composed  of  similar  fragments — "orient  pearls  in  beauteous 
order  strung." 

Several  of  the  similitudes  employed  in  the  Poetry  of  the 
Romance  to  describe  the  charms  of  a  beautiful  woman  find  both 
interesting  and  curious  parallels  in  Eastern  poetry  generally,  and 
even  in  the  works  of  the  best  poets  of  Europe.  The  epithet 
''moon-faced,'*  applied  to  a  beautiful  damsel,  is  commonly 
supposed  to  be  peculiarly  Oriental — and  ridiculous.  Antara, 
however,  in  common  with  other  good  poets  before  and  since  his 
time,  very  frequently  compares  the  face  of  his  beloved  Abla  to 
the  moon  and  to  the  sun.     For  example  : 

**  The  brilliant  moon  calls  out  to  her  :  *  Come  forth,  for  thy 
face  is  like  me  when  I  am  at  the  full,  and  in  all  my  glory !  * 

^  The  sun,  as  it  sets,  turns  towards  her,  and  says  :  '  Darkness 
obscures  the  land — do  thou  rise  in  my  absence  ! ' " 

Solomon  anticipates  the  poet  of  *Abs  :  **  Who  is  she  that 
looketh  forth  in  the  morning,  fair  as  the  moon,  clear  as  the  snn? 

Firdausf  often  employs  the  same  comparisons  : 

If  thou  wouldst  make  her  charms  appear, 
Think  of  the  sun,  so  bright  and  clear. 


n 


Love  ye  the  moon  ?    Behold  her  face. 
And  there  the  lucid  planet  trace. 

In  the  touching  story  oiNala  and  Datnayanti^  an  episode  of  the 
Mak&bkArata^  translated  from  the  Sanskrit  into  English  verse  by 
Dean  Milman,  the  heroine  outshines  the  moon  with  her  beauty : 

There  he  saw  Vidarbha's  maiden,  girt  with  all  her  virgin  bands. 
In  her  glowing  beauty  shining,  all  excelling  in  her  form  ; 
Every  limb  in  smooth  proportion,  slender  waist  and  lovely  eyes ; 
Even  the  moon's  soft  gleam  disdaining  in  her  own  overpowering 
light. 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR,      449 

And  in  the  Nalddaya  of  Kalidisa,  the  Shakspeare  of  Hindustan : 

"  Her  countenance  is  brighter  than  the  moon ;  ** 

and  the  Persian  Hafiz  : 

Thou  nymph,  whose  moon-like  forehead  bears 
An  arch  as  purest  amber  bright ; 

and  the  tenebrious  Arabian  el-Hariri,  as  Burton  terms  him  : 

The  moon  denotes  a  beautiful  countenance  ; 

and  the  Afghan  poet  'Abdu-'r-Rahmm  : 

The  face  of  the  beloved,  the  sun,  and  the  moon,  are  one. 

If  for  once  only  she  will  show  her  face  from  her  veil, 
She  vrill  take  the  diploma  of  beauty  from  the  sun  ; 

and  the  Turkish  poet  Belig  : 

Should  sun  and  moon  behold  her,  they'd  be  through  envy  rent 
in  twain. 

The    Minnesingers  of  Germany,   too,   have   the  same  simili- 
tudes.    Thus,  Vogelweid  sings  of  a  lady,  who 

Walks  through  the  throng  with  graceful  air, 
A  sun  that  bids  the  stars  retire ; 

and  Henry  von  Muringe  thus  laments  the  absence  of  his  lady-love : 

Where  is  now  my  morning  star  ? 
Where  now  my  sun  ? 

Our  Elizabethan  poet  Spenser  : 

Her  spacious  forehead,  like  the  clearest  moon. 
Whose  full-grown  orb  begins  now  to  be  spent, 
Largely  displayed  in  native  silver  shone, 
Giving  wide  room  to  Beauty's  r^ment. 

And  our  own  great  Shakspeare  : 

The  noble  sister  of  Publicola, 
The  moon  of  Rome  1 

And  as  the  bright  sun  glorifies  the  sky. 
So  is  her  face  illumined  by  her  eye. 

2  F 


450  APPENDIX, 


It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  authenticity  of  "Ossian's 
Poems  "  shoald  be  doubtful,  else  a  Keltic  bard  might  be  added  ; 
for  Ossian  says  (or  Macpherson  says  it  for  him) :  '*  She  came 
forth  in  all  her  beauty,  like  the  moon  rising  from  a  cloud  in 
the  East" 

But  Abla's  treSvSes — they  are  "  like  the  dark  shades  of  night "  : 
— "in  the  night  of  thy  tresses  darkness  itself  is  driven  away"  : 
'*  it  is  as  if  she  were  the  brilliant  day,  and  as  if  night  had  involved 
her  in  obscurity." 

The  Afghan  poet  Khushhal  Khan,  Khattak,  has  the  same 
similitude  as  this  last : 

When  the  tresses  become  dishevelled  about  the  fair  white  face, 
The  bright  day  becometh  shrouded  in  evening's  sombre  shade; 

and  still  more  beautifully  does  he  express  this  in  another  poem : 

Since  in  thy  tresses  my  heart  is  lost,  show  thou  thy  face  to  me ; 
For  in  tfu  nighfs  gloom  lost  thUtgs  are  with  lighted  lamp  sought 
for. 

In  the  following  passage  from  the  MSgha  Diita  ("Cloud 
Messenger")  of  Kalidasa,  the  face  of  the  demigod  Yacsha's 
wife  is  likened  to  the  moon  and  her  tresses  to  the  night : 

Sad  on  her  hand  her  pallid  cheek  declines, 
And  half  unseen  through  veiling  tresses  shines  ; 
As  when  a  darkling  night  the  moon  enshrouds, 
A  few  faint  rays  break  straggling  through  the  clouds. 

The  Afghan  poet  Ashraf  Khan,  Khattak,  compares  the  dark 
ringlets  of  the  beloved  to  warriors  : 

When  she  disposeth  her  flowing  tresses  in  curls  about  her  face, 
To  tlie  Ethiop  army  she  accordeth  permission  devastation  to  make. 

Abla*s  eyes  are  like  those  of  the  fawn :  see  note  on  v.  31  of 
the  Poem  of  Amriolkais,  p.  374.  In  Sanskrit  poetry  this  is  a 
very  common  similitude  ;  for  example :  in  the  drama  of  MdkUi 
and  Mddhava — *'  her  eye  the  deer  'displays  ; "  in  the  Uttara 
Rama  Cheriira^  the  wife  of  Rama  is  styled,  *'  fawn-eyed  Sitd ;" 
in   the  MSgha  Dtlta — "fawn-like  eyes  that  tremble  as  they 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR.      451 

* 

glow ;"  in  the  Naishadha  of  Shri  Harsha — "  her  eyes  were  like 
the  stately  deer ; "  and  in  the  Sakoontdla  of  Kaliddsa  : 

These  her  cherished  fawns, 
Whose  eyes,  in  lustre  V3ring  ¥rith  her  own, 
Return  her  gaze  of  sbterly  affection. 

Homer  terms  Juno  "  ox-eyed/* 

Abla's  eyes  are  '*full  of  magic."  Firdausi  says  :  '*  Her  eyes, 
so  lull  of  witchery,  glow  like  the  narcissus.**  But  the  antelope 
has  "  borrowed  the  magic  of  her  eyes,"  says  Antara,  as  the 
moon  has  stolen  her  charms.  So  Hafiz  chides  the  zephyr  for 
having  filched  the  perfume  of  his  darling's  tresses;  the  rose, 
her  bloom ;  the  narcissus,  the  charming  brightness  of  her  eye : 
in  like  manner  Shakspeare,  in  one  of  his  sonnets  ("The  fro- 
ward  violet,"  &c.),  accuses  all  the  garden-flowers  of  having 
each  stolen  some  sweet  or  colour  from  his  love. 

The  hero  is  slain  with  the  arrows  shot  from  Abla's  eyes. 
Thus,  in  the  Megha  Dtita :  **  wanton  glances  emulate  the  dart ; " 
our  English  Spenser  also  : 

I  mote  perceive  how  in  her  glancing  sight 
Legions  of  Loves  with  little  wings  did  fly, 
Darting  their  deadly  arrows  fiery  bright. 

The  eyelashes  (and  the  glances)  of  the  peerless  Abla  are  like 
sharp  scimitars.     'Abdu-*r-Rahmm,  an  Afghan  poet,  says  : 
Each  of  the  eyelashes  of  the  beloved  pierceth  me  to  this  degree, 
That  I  declare  it  is  the  two-edged  sword  of  *Ali,  and  nought  else. 
(Zu-*l-fikar  was  the  name  of  the  famous  sword  of  'Ali,  son-in-law 
of  Muhammad.)    *Abdu-*l-HamId,  another  Afghan  poet : 
Shroud  well  thy  sight  from  the  black  eyes*  glances ; 
Arise  not,  but  from  drawn  swords  guard  well  thine  eyes  ; 
the  Turkish  poet  Fuzuli  also  : 

Where  a  headsman  with  a  sabre  like  those  lashes,  where,  of  thine? 
and  Bellg,  another  Ottoman  poet : 

The  eye  of  that  wanton  disturber  bares  its  sword. 
(See  also  "  Serenade  to  his  Sleeping  Mistress,"  p.  146,  and  Note 
on  the  same,  pp.  430,  431.) 


452  APPENDIX. 


Abla's  throat  was  so  white  that  it  shamed  her  necklace — 
"  Alas !  "  exclaims  the  love-struck  hero — "  alas  for  that  throat 
and  that  necklace ! " — evidently  feeling  that  her  natural  beauties 
were  alone  sufficient  to  disturb  his  peace  of  mind ; — as  Sir  John 
Suckling  says,  or  sings  : 

Th'  adorning  thee  with  too  much  art 

Is  but  a  barbarous  skill ; 
*Tis  like  the  poisoning  of  the  dart — 

Too  apt  before  to  kill ! 

The  same  thought  is  expressed  in  the  following  passage  from  a 
Sanskrit  writer :  '*  Thine  eyes  have  completely  eclipsed  those 
of  the  deer ;  then  why  add  kajala  ?  Is  it  not  enough  that  thou 
destroy  thy  victims  unless  thou  do  it  with  poisoned  arrows?" 
{Kajala — ^the  Egyptian  kohl—\s  a  pigment  used  to  darken  the 
lower  eyelid :  see  note  on  w.  8,  9,  Poem  of  Tarafa,  p.  376.) 
In  his  Mo'allaqah,  v.  42,  Antara  speaks  of  certain  ladies  ^  whose 
beauty  required  no  ornaments  " — ^thus  anticipating  our  English 
poet  of  the  Seasons,  in  his  oft-quoted  lines : 

Loveliness 
Needs  not  the  foreign  aid  of  ornament ; 
But  is,  when  unadorned,  adorned  the  most. 

The  Persian  Sa'di  was  also  an  admirer  of  beauty  unadorned : 
"  The  face  of  a  beloved  mistress  requireth  not  the  art  of  the  tire- 
woman *' — '*  The  finger  of  a  beautiful  woman  and  the  tip  of  her 
ear  are  handsome  without  an  ear-jewel  or  a  turquoise  ring." 

It  is  interesting  to  remark  the  various  comparisons  employed 
by  different  poets  to  describe  a  graceful  maiden.  Antara  likens 
his  darling  to  a  fawn.  Solomon  says  :  "  I  have  compared  thee, 
O  my  love,  to  a  company  of  horses  in  PharaoVs  chariot." 
Theocritus,  in  his  Epithalamium  on  the  Marriage  of  Helen, 
says :  "  She  resembles  the  horse  in  the  chariots  of  Thessaly." 
Sophocles  likens  a  damsel  to  a  wild  heifer;  Horace,  to  an 
untamed  filly ;  Ariosto's  Angelica  is  like  a  fawn ;  Tasso*s  Erminia 
is  like  a  hind ;  and  Kalidisa,  the  great  Hindu  dramatist,  com- 
pares a  female  divinity  \o—a  goose!    **The  Rijahansa,"  says 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR.      453 

Dr.  H.  H.  Wilson,  in  the  Notes  to  his  translation  of  the  M^ka 
Diita  of  Kalidisa,  ''is  described  as  a  white  gander  with  red 
legs  and  bill,  and  together  with  the  common  goose  is  a  favourite 
bird  in  Hindu  poetry.  The  motion  of  the  goose  is  supposed  to 
resemble  the  shuffling  walk  which  they  esteem  graceful  in  a 
woman.  Thus,  in  the  RUu  Sanhdra^  or  the  Seasons,  of  our 
poet — 

Nor  with  the  goose,  the  smiling  fair 

In  graceful  motion  can  compare." 

(This  reads  as  if  the  "  fair  "  could  not  compare  with  the  goose ; 
but  evidently  the  meaning  of  the  original  is  that  the  bird  in 
question  cannot  compare  with  the  goddess  in  graceful  motion.) 
Professor  Monier  Williams,  in  the  Notes  to  his  elegant  trans- 
lation of  Kaliddsa's  Sakoontdia,  or  the  Lost  Ring,  remarks  that 
Hamsa-gdminlf  "walking  like  a  swan,"  was  an  epithet  for  a 
graceful  woman.  "The  Indian  lawgiver  Manu,"  he  adds, 
"recommends  that  a  Br^man  should  choose  for  his  wife  a 
young  maiden  whose  gait  was  like  that  of  a  flamingo,  or  even 
like  that  of  an  elephant"  Thus,  in  the  drama  of  M&laH  and 
Mddhava^  we  read :  "  the  elephant  has  stolen  her  gait " ;  and 
in  the  Naishadha  of  Shri  Harsha  :  "  her  stately  pace  was  like 
the  elephant's.*'  In  common  with  the  Arabs  and  most  other 
Oriental  nations,  largeness  of  hips  was  considered  as  a  great 
beauty  in  Hindu  women,  and  it  would  cause  them  to  walk  with 
that  "waving  motion'*  so  frequently  mentioned  in  Eastern 
poetry.  So  the  King,  in  love  with  the  beautiful  Sakoontdla, 
exclaims : 

Here  are  the  fresh  impressions  of  her  feet ; 
Their  well-known  outline  faintly  marked  in  front. 
More  deeply  towards  the  heel,  betokening 
The  graceful  undulation  of  her  gait." 

The  learned  Professor  explains  that  the  idea  of  the  original  is, 
that  the  weight  of  her  haunches  caused  the  peculiar  appearance 
observable  in  her  footprints.  (See  note  on  v.  17,  Poem  of  Amru, 
p.  397,  and  note  on  v.  97,  same  poem,  p.  399.) 


454  APPENDIX. 


Abla's  tall  and  graceful  form  is  very  often  compared  to  the 
tamarisk,  and  to  the  branch  of  the  erak-tree :  "  The  tamarisk 
trees  complain  of  her  beauty  in  the  mom  and  in  the  eve  " — an 
idea  which  also  finds  expression  in  these  verses  of  Khushhil 
Khdn: 

The  flowers  of  the  parterre  hang  down  their  heads,  and  they  say : 
The  heart-ravisher  hath  appropriated  to  herself  all  admiration. 

Solomon  compares  the  beloved  to  a  palm-tree  ;  and  Theocritus 
likens  Helen  to  the  cypress  in  the  garden  :  this  last  is  a  fieivourite 
similitude  in  Eastern  poetry.    Thus  Firdausf : 

Tall  as  the  graceful  cypress,  and  as  bright 
As  ever  struck  a  ravished  lover's  sight ; 

and  Hafiz : 

Abashed  by  thy  majestic  mien. 
The  cypress  casts  a  gloomy  shade  ; 

and  the  Turkish  poet  'Arif : 

Though  I'm  far  now  from  the  shadow  of  thy  love,  O  cjrpress 
straight ! 

In  the  "Popular  Poetry  of  Persia,"  translated  by  Dr.  Alex. 
Chodzko,  are  these  lines,  said  to  be  borrowed  from  Sa'di : 

Who  is  walking  there — thou,  or  a  tall  cypress? 
Or  is  it  an  angel  in  human  shape  ? 

This  last  line  recalls  a  similar  thought,  but  far  more  beautifully 
expressed,  which  occurs  in  The  King*s  Quair  (or  Book),  by 
James  I.,  of  Scotland  :  the  spelling  is  modernised  : 

Ah,  sweet  I  are  you  a  worldly  creature. 
Or  heavenly  thing  in  likeness  of  nature  ? 
Or  are  you  god  Cupid  his  own  princess, 
And  coming  are  to  loose  me  out  of  band  ? 
Or  are  you  very  Nature  the  goddess^ 
That  have  depainted  with  your  heavenly  hand 
This  garden  full  of  flowers  as  they  stand  ? 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR,      455 

•  - 

The  following  description  of  a  female  divinity,  from  the 
MSgha  DtUay  contains  some  of  the  similitudes  above  noticed  : 

Goddess  beloved !  how  vainly  I  explore 
The  world  to  trace  the  semblance  I  adore  : 
Thy  graceful  form  the  flexile  tendril  shows, 
And  like  thy  locks  the  peacock's  plumage  glows ; 
Mild  as  thy  cheeks,  the  moon's  new  beams  appear, 
And  those  soft  eyes  adorn  the  timid  deer  ; 
In  rippling  brooks  thy  curling  brows  I  see, 
But  only  view  combined  these  charms  in  thee. 

When  Abla  smiles,  '*  between  her  teeth  is  a  mixture  of  wine 
and  honey  '* :  **  she  passes  the  night  with  musk  under  her  yell, 
and  its  fragrance  is  increased  by  the  still  fresher  essence  of  her 
breath."  Solomon  says  that  the  lips  of  the  beloved  "drop  as 
the  honey-comb;"  her  mouth  is  'Mike  wine  that  goeth  down 
sweetly  ;  "  her  garments  have  the  fragrance  of  Lebanon.  And 
the  Ottoman  Fazil  Beg,  in  a  fine  poem  on  the  Circassian 
Women,  says  :  "  Their  lips  and  cheeks  are  taverns  of  wine." 

An  abject  slave  is  the  lover :  "I  will  kiss  the  earth  where 
thou  art  1 "  exclaims  our  poeL  And  Hafiz,  in  the  same  spirit 
(according  to  Richardson's  paraphrase) : 

O  for  one  heavenly  glance  of  that  dear  maid  I 
How  would  my  raptured  heart  with  joy  rebound  ! 

Down  to  her  feet  I'd  lowly  bend  my  head. 

And  with  my  eyebrows  sweep  the  hallowed  ground. 

The  phantom  of  his  beloved  appearing  to  Antara  during  the 
watches  of  the  night  is  a  source  of  great  consolation  to  him. 
"O  Abla  !"  he  exclaims,  "let  thy  visionary  form  appear  to 
me,  and  spread  soft  slumber  over  my  distracted  heart !  "  This 
phantom-visitation  is  frequently  alluded  to  in  the  mystical 
poetry  of  the  East,  which  is  externally  erotic — bacchanalian 
and  anacreontic — but  possessed  of  a  deep,  recondite,  spiritual 
signification,  like  the  Song  of  Solomon.  In  every  line  of  the 
Persian  poet  Hafiz,  for  instance,  and  in  the  Afghan  poetry 
from  which  citations  have  been  made,  the  natural  parallels 


456  APPENDIX. 


lire  maintained  between  the  details  of  the  inward  and  spiritual 
and  those  of  the  outward  and  sensuaL  The  whole  system 
of  Persian  Mystic  Theology — Sufiism,  or  dervish-doctrine — 
is  set  forth  in  the  MesnevJ,  a  grand  poem  in  six  long  books; 
full  of  noble  poetry,  varied  as  that  of  our  own  Shakspeare ; 
composed  by  the  celebrated  Jelalu-'d-Din,  the  founder  of  the 
sect  known  in  Europe  as  the  **  Dancing  Dervishes,"  from  their 
gyrations  in  performing  their  acts  of  public  worship.  Professor 
£.  H.  Palmer  has  published  a  few  selections  from  this  great 
work  ("  Song  of  the  Reed,"  &c  London  :  N.  Triibner  &  Co.), 
rendered  into  graceful  English  verse,  that  "  dwells,  like  bells, 
upon  the  ear."  And  Messrs.  Triibner  &  Co.  have  recently 
issued  proposals  for  the  publication,  by  subscription,  of  a  com- 
plete translation  in  English  verse,  by  Mr.  J.  W.  Redhouse,  of 
the  First  Book  of  the  Mesnem^  together  with  some  two  hundred 
anecdotes  of  the  author  from  El-Eflaki,  a  contemporary  of 
Jelalu-*d-Din.  This  important  project  has  already  met  with 
sufficient  encouragement  to  ensure  the  issue  of  the  work. 

In  Oriental  poetry  the  zephyr  is  often  the  messenger  of  love. 
**  O  western  breeze  !  "  exclaims  Abla,  "  blow  to  my  country  and 
give  tidings  of  me  to  the  hero  of  Abs  !  " — **  O  may  the  western 
breeze  tell  thee  of  ray  ardent  wish  to  return  home ! "  says  Antara. 
Thus,  too,  in  the  old  Scottish  ballad,  entitled,  "WiUie's 
drowned  in  Yarrow  "  : 

O  gentle  i^dnd,  that  bloweth  south. 

From  where  my  love  repaireth, 
Convey  a  kiss  from  his  dear  mouth. 

And  tell  me  how  he  fareth  ! 

The  ancients,  it  is  well  known,  placed  the  seat  of  Love  in 
the  liver ;  and  so  Antara  says :  *'  Ask  my  burning  sighs  that 
mount  on  high  ;  they  will  tell  thee  of  the  flaming  passion  in  my 
liver."  An  epigram  in  the  seventh  book  of  the  Antkologia  is  to 
the  same  purpose : 

Cease,  Love,  to  wound  my  liver  and  my  heart ; 
If  I  must  suffer,  choose  some  other  part. 


NOTES  ON  THE  ROMANCE  OF  ANTAR.      457 

Theocritus,  in  his  13th  Idyll,  speaking  of  Hercules,  says  :  "  In 
his  liver  Love  had  fixed  a  wound;"  Anacreon  tells  how  the  god 
of  Love  drew  his  bow,  and  "  the  dart  pierced  through  my  liver 
and  my  heart ; "  and  Horace  (B.  i,  Ode  2)  says  :  "  Burning 
Love  .  .  doth  in  thy  cankered  liver  rage."  But  this  notion 
was  not  confined  to  the  ancients.     Shakspeare  says : 

Alas  !  then  Love  may  be  called  appetite, 
No  motion  of  the  liver,  but  the  palate. 

The  "  bird  of  the  tamarisk  " — ^the  turtle-dove — is  frequently 
invoked  by  Antara,  to  bear  witness  to  his  passion,  to  sympathize 
with  his  griefs  :  this  bird  is  considered  in  the  'Ea&i  as  the  pattern 
of  conjugal  affection.     Thus,  in  the  M^ha  Ddta : 

On  some  cool  terrace,  where  the  turtle-dove 
In  gentle  accents  breathes  connubial  love. 

The  hero's  passion  for  Abla  is  often  described  as  a  consuming 
flame  :  "  Quit  me  not,"  he  conjures  the  turtle-dove — **quit  me 
not  till  I  die  of  love,  the  victim  of  passion,  of  absence  and 
separation.'*  Our  great  dramatist  affirms  that  **  men  have  died, 
and  worms  have  eaten  them,  but  not  for  love.'*  Had  Shak- 
speare never  heard  of  the  gallant  Troubadour  Geoffrey  Rudel, 
who  died  for  love— and  love,  too,  from  hearsay  description  of  the 
beauty  of  the  Countess  of  Tripoli  ?  Warton,  in  his  History  of 
English  Poetry^  tells  the  sad  story :  how  the  poet  sailed  for 
Tripoli ;  fell  sick  on  the  voyage  from  the  fever  of  expectation ; 
was  taken  ashore  at  Tripoli,  dying ;  how  the  Countess,  hearing 
of  his  arrival,  hastened  to  the  shore  and  took  him  by  the  hand, 
but  the  poet  could  only  murmur  his  satisfaction  at  having  seen 
her^  and  expired.  The  Countess  very  properly  made  him  a 
handsome  funeral,  and  erected  a  tomb  of  porphyry  over  his 
remains,  inscribed  with  an  epitaph  in  Arabic  verse. — "  Dying 
for  love,*'  says  Richardson,  '*is  considered  amongst  us  as  a  mere 
poetic  figure ;  and  we  certainly  can  support  the  reality  by  few 
examples;  but  in  Eastern  countries  it  seems  to  be  something 
more  :  many  words  in  the  Arabic  and  Persian  languages  which 
express  Love  implying  also  Melancholy,  Madness,  and  Death.** 


458  APPENDIX, 


Another  story  of  dying  for  love — or  from  grief  at  the  loss  of  a 
beloved  one — is  furnished  by  Oriental  writers  in  their  accounts 
of  the  reign  of  Yezid  II.,  the  ninth  Khallf  of  the  house  of 
'Umayya.  This  monarch  was  passionately  fond  of  a  beautiful 
and  amiable  singing-girl  named  Hababa ;  and  one  day,  while 
they  were  at  dinner  together,  Yezid  playfully  threw  a  grape  at 
her,  which  she  took  up  and  put  in  her  mouth,  to  eat  it ;  but  the 
grape,  slipping  down  her  throat,  stuck  across  the  passage  and 
choked  her,  almost  instantly.  The  melancholy  accident  so 
affected  Yezid  that  he  fell  into  an  excess  of  grief,  and  was 
inconsolable  for  the  loss  of  so  amiable  a  creature.  He  would 
not  suffer  her  body  to  be  buried  for  several  days,  and  even  the 
tomb  could  not  cure  his  frenzy.  He  ordered  her  grave  to  be 
opened,  and  the  body  of  the  girl  to  be  once  more  exposed  to 
his  view.  In  short,  being  incapable  of  moderating  his  grief,  he  sur- 
vived her  only  fifteen  days,  and  before  he  expired  he  ordered 
his  remains  to  be  deposited  in  a  grave  near  that  of  his  darling. 
This  happened  in  the  year  of  the  Hijra  105  (a.d.  723). 

Mr.  Payne's  translation  of  the  pathetic  verses  on  Aziza's 
Tomb,  which  occur  in  the  "  Thousand  and  One  Nights,"  may  be 
appropriately  cited  in  this  connection  : 

I  PASSED  by  a  ruined  tomb  in  the  midst  of  a  garden  way. 

Upon  whose  letterless  stone  seven  blood-red  anemones  lay. 

'*  Who  sleeps  in  this  unmarked  grave  ?  "  I  said ;  and  the  earth  : 

"  Bend  low; 
For  a  lover  lies  here  and  waits  for  the  Resurrection  Day. " 
"  God  keep  thee,  O  victim  of  love  !  "  I  said,  *'  and  bring  thee 

to  dwell 
In  the  highest  of  all  the  heavens  of  Paradise,  I  pray  ! 
How  wretched  are  lovers  all,  even  in  the  sepulchre. 
For  their  very  tombs  are  covered  with  ruin  and  decay  ! 
Lo  !  if  I  might,  I  would  plant  thee  a  garden  round  about. 
And  with  my  streaming  tears  the  thirst  of  its  flowers  allay  !  " 

The  loves  of  Layla  and  Majniin,  by  the  celebrated  Persian 
poet  Nizam!,  are  to  Orientals  what  the  story  of  Romeo  and  Juliet 


NOTES  ON  KA'B*S  MANTLE  POEM.         459 


is  to  us.  MaJDun  signifies,  frantic,  road,  from  love.  The  poetry 
of  Nizaml,  like  the  best  Oriental  poetry  of  the  present  day,  is 
mystical ;  but  the  common  people  chant  the  Snfi  songs  as  if 
there  was  in  them  no  more  than  meets  the  ear. 

It  is  instructive  as  well  as  interesting  to  observe  resemblances 
of  thought  and  expression  in  the  poetry  of  different  nations  and 
ages  wide  apart.  No  doubt,  modem  Oriental  poets  have  adopted 
many  of  their  similitudes  from  earlier  poetry.  But  the  discovery 
of  such  similitudes  in  the  works  of  great  poets  of  different  countries 
and  times  tends  to  show  us  that  there  are  certain  subjects  on 
which  minds  cast  in  a  large  and  comprehensive  m9uld  always 
think  nearly  alike  ;  that  human  thought  moves,  so  to  say,  in 
certain  grooves;  and  that  the  same  objects  suggest  similar 
ideas  to  different  minds,  which  find  expression  m  language 
almost  identical,  whether  the  poet  be  a  rude  Arab  or  a  cultured 
European. 


NOTES  ON  KA'B'S  MANTLE  POEM. 

By  the  Translator. 

Preface,  p.  307,  L  i-ia — Ka'b,  the  Poet,  and  Muhammad, 
the  Lawgiver^  were  descended,  by  sixteen  and  seventeen  degrees 
respectively  (not  seventeen  and  fifteen,  as  stated  in  the  Preface), 
from  Ilyas,  the  son  of  Mudhar,  the  son  of  Nizar,  the  son  of 
'Adnan ;  as  is  shown  in  the  subjoined  genealogies,  both  from 
An-Nawawi's  **  Biographical  Dictionary,**  edited  by  Wiistenfeld: 
Gottingen,  1S42-47.  That  of  Muhammad  is  identical  with  what 
is  found  in  p.  i,  text,  of  ''The  Life  of  Muhammed**  of  Ibn 
Hisham,  by  the  same  editor ;  London,  1867.  The  trans- 
literations are  by  the  translator.  Sir  W.  Jones,  in  his  "  Gene- 
alogy of  the  Seven  Arabian  Poets,**  puts  "Mozeinah**  {read, 
Muzayna)  in  the  place  of  'Amr,  as  No.  3,  in  the  descent 
of  Zuhayr,  the  father  of  Ka'b.  Muzayna  may  have  been 
a   surname    of  'Amr,   as  Abu    SulmJi  was   that   of   Rabi'a. 


460 


APPENDIX. 


Sir  W.  Jones  adds  a  name,  "  'Awimer,"  between  Qaratz  and 
Riyah— by  him  written  "Kerth"  and  "Reidhh"— but  Nawawi 
has  it  not. 


Ilyas. 


I. 

2. 

3- 
4. 

5. 
6. 

7. 
8. 

9- 

10. 

II. 

12. 

14. 


MUDRIKA. 
I 

Khuzayma. 

Kinana. 

an-Nadzr. 

Milik. 

Fihr-Quraysh. 

GftUb. 

La'ayy. 

KaTj. 

Murra. 

KiUb. 

Qusayy. 

'Abdu-Manat 


I. 
2. 

3- 

4. 

5. 
6. 

7. 
8. 

9. 
la 

II. 

12. 

13- 


Tabikha. 

*Udd. 

*Amr. 

I 

'Uthman. 

I 
Latim. 
I 
Hudhftia. 

Thawr. 

Tha4aba. 

Khalawa. 


Hashim. 

15.  *Abdu-'l-Muttalib. 

16.  *Abdi-'llah. 

17-   Muhammad. 


Mazin. 
al-Harith. 
Qaratz. 
Riyah. 
14.  Abu  Sulm4,  Rabl'a. 


15. 
16. 


Zuhayr. 

Ka'b. 


1.  II.  The  orthography  "Abu-Solma"  is  erroneous — a  result 
of  the  Hebraizing  proclivities  of  early  European  Arabists. 

V.  I.  The  name  Beatrice  is  a  fair  equivalent  to  the  Arabian 
original  Su'ad  {ue,  happy),  and  conve}^  a  more  definite  impression 
to  the  English  reader. 

v,  10.  "Promises  of  *Urqlib  "  is  an  Arabian  proverb,  about 
equivalent  to  our  "  Fudge." 

V.  20.  From  the  genealogy  of  the  Poet's  camel  we  are  to 
understand  that  there  were  two  brothers  and  a  sister  :  one  of  the 


NOTES  ON  KA*B*S  MANTLE  POEM.         461 

brothers,  himself  got  out  of  the  sister,  gets  the  filly  out  of  her 
also ; — ^he  b  thus  father  and  brother;  the  other  brother  is  paternal 
and  maternal  uncle. 

V.  25.  This  verse  is  very  obscure  in  the  original,  and  has 
many  variants.  It  seems  to  intimate  that  the  Poet's  imaginary 
camel  had  never  foaled,  had  never  had  a  full  udder,  had  never 
been  sucked  or  milked.  The  best  commentary  consulted  explains 
that  the  '*  whisking  "  is  to  drive  away  flies. 

V.  29.  The  rocks  are  supposed  to  be  so  hot  that  a  "piebald 
locust "  cannot  bear  them :  he  touches  them  with  his  feet,  and 
withdraws ;  but  he  is  tired  also ;  so  he  again  tries  to  alight, 
and  is  again  and  again  repelled  by  the  hot  rock. 

V.  31.  The  Poet's  mother  is  pictured  as  beating  her  breast 
with  her  two  hands  alternately,  tearing  her  flesh  and  her  clothes, 
on  hearing  that  the  Prophet  had  doomed  her  elder  son,  whose 
enemies  derived  pleasure  in  tormenting  her  with  assurances  that 
he  is  already  as  good  as  dead.  The  other  ''bereaved  ones "  are 
probably  mothers  of  warriors  killed  in  the  recent  wars  against 
Muhammad. 

V.  34.  The  Poet  here,  by  a  poetical  amplification,  calls  him- 
self the  son  of  his  grandfather,  or,  by  a  contraction,  omits  his 
father's  name.    All  Israelites  are  '*  Sons  of  Abraham." 

V.  35.  Here  he  recoimts  how  he  was  refused  protection  by  an 
old  friend ;  and  how  (v.  36)  he  resolved  to  appeal  to  the  Prophet 
himself,  saying  (v.  37)  that,  ''after  all,  a  man  can  die  but  once." 

V.  38.  This  verse  is  held  to  be  "the  verse  of  the  Poem  " — ^that 
is,  it  recites  the  pith  of  the  reason  why  the  Poem  was  composed : 
"pardon  is  hoped  for  from  the  Apostle  of  God."  Twice  does 
the  Poet,  in  this  verse,  skilfully  use  the  expression,  "Apostle  of 
God,"  thereby  reminding  the  Prophet  of  his  conversion  to  Islam. 

V.  41.  Muhammad  was  bom  in  the  year  when  Abraha, 
viceroy  of  Arabia  Felix  for  the  King  of  Ethiopia,  advanced 
against  Makka  with  an  elephant  in  his  train,  to  destroy  the 
sacred  temple  of  the  pagan  city,  he  and  his  sovereign  being 
Christians.    Arrived  in  front  of  the  city,  the  elephant  refused 


462  APPENDIX, 


to  obey  his  leader  and  advance  to  the  attack.  Abraha  was 
obliged  to  withdraw,  and  his  army  perished  in  a  way  very 
variously  explained.  The  elephant  of  Abraha  is  said  to  have 
seen  and  heard  an  angel  threatening  him,  should  he  advance ; 
but  Ka*b  was  deterred  by  no  dissuasions,  for  who  was  more 
terrible  than  the  incensed  Apostle,  whose  pardon  was  hoped  for  ? 

V,  51.     The  Qur*an  styles  Muhammad  **a  Light  from  God." 

V.  52.  The  "small  band  of  Quraysh"  were  those  who  had 
abandoned  Makka  and  migrated  to  Madina  for  the  faith.  Their 
**  spokesman,'*  who  commanded  them  to  depart,  was  Muhammad 
himself. 

V,  55.  By  "shirts  of  the  tissue  of  David  "  is  meant  coats  of 
mail ;  for  tradition  asserts  that  David  was  divinely  taught,  and 
was  very  skilful  in  the  manufacture  of  link  armour. 

Muhammad  subsequently  objected  to  Ka'b  that  his  Poem  had  in 
it  not  one  word  of  praise  for  the  "auxiliaries"  of  Madina,  whereas 
they  were  in  every  way  worthy  of  eulogy,  and  had  felt  hurt  by 
being  excluded  from  his  panegjnric  of  the  "emigrants."  There- 
upon the  Poet  indited  in  their  special  honour  a  series  of  verses, 
and  praised  them  for  the  fidelity  with  which  they  had  carried 
out  their  promise  to  assist  the  Prophet  to  the  death,  and  the 
steadfastness  they  had  shown  on  many  a  trying  occasion  on  his 
behalf. 


NOTES  ON  EL-BUSIRrS  MANTLE  POEM. 

By  the  Translator. 

w.  1-7.  The  old  Arabian  poets  of  pagan  times  usually  began 
their  eclogues  with  some  kind  of  amatory  address  to  a  real  or 
imaginary  mistress.  This  was  discountenanced  by  Islam,  and 
£1-Busiri,  in  his  first  seven  couplets,  introduces  a  friend  who 
chides  him  for  being  in  love,  and  for  attempting  to  conceal 
the  fact. 


NOTES  ON  EL-BUSmrS  MANTLE  POEM.    463 


w.  8-1 1.  In  the  four  following  verses  the  poet  acknowledges 
his  secret  passion,  and  the  uselessness  of  his  attempts  to  suppress 
its  manifestation. 

w.  12-28.  In  these  verses  the  poet  laments  the  shortcomings 
of  his  life.  The  **  dominating  spirit  "  (v.  13)  of  the  ethics  of 
Islam  is  what  in  Christian  phraseology  is  termed  "the  flesh," 
and  "  the  lusts  of  the  flesh  ** ;  and  what  is  commonly  spoken  of 
as  *'the  passions."  Muslim  moralists  teach  that,  in  the  course 
of  a  penitent's  life,  his  spirit  [nefs)^  or  "flesh,"  goes  through 
three  stages.  At  first  it  is  the  "  spirit  dominant "  {en-mfsu 
U-emmdra),  It  then  commands  despotically,  and  its  behests 
are  implicitly  obeyed  by  the  subject  will.  Presently,  by  the 
exercise  of  self-control,  and  by  the  divine  aid,  the  spirit  is 
deprived  of  its  despotic  power,  and  it  subsides  into  the  condition 
of  a  grumbler,  an  upbraider  {cn-nefsu  ^l-Uwdma),  that  submits 
to  the  strengthening  resolve  of  the  reforming  man — though  not 
without  bitter  complainings  of  the  inutility  of  self-restraint — of 
the  cruelty  inflicted  on  the  sufferer  by  the  mortifications  of  self- 
denial.  Lastly,  however,  when  the  virtuous  man  reaches  the 
saintly  goal  of  perfected  righteousness,  he  has  in  his  turn  become 
the  sovereign  commander  over  his  lusts  and  passions ;  his  spirit 
has  become  submissive  {en-ne/su  * l-mutmaUnfia)  to  his  pious  will : 
he  has  but  to  resolve,  with  God's  aid,  on  good  thoughts,  good 
words,  good  deeds,  and  his  now  submissive  spirit  at  once  leaps 
with  humble  joy  and  alacrity  to  put  in  docile  practice  what  the 
divine  ordinances  require. — The  remaining  verses  in  this  section 
of  the  Poem  portray  the  struggle  with  that  **  dominant  spirit," 
the  poet's  regret  that  he  has  not  laid  up  a  treasure  of  good  works, 
and  an  exhortation  to  others  to  resist  the  flesh  aud  its  inordinate 
desires.     Verse  18  is  worthy  of  careful  remark. 

V.  29.  With  this  verse  the  poet  bcgfins  his  enumeration  of  the 
virtues  of  Muhammad,  which  he  ought  to  have  sought  to  imitate 
in  his  nightly  devotions  and  (v.  30)  his  long  fastings.  It  is  a 
practice  with  those  who  fast  long  in  the  East  to  bind  large 
round  stones  between  their  girdles  and  the  pits  of  their  stomachs 
and  flanks,  so  as  to  quiet  the  gnawings  of  hunger. 


464  APPENDIX. 


V.  31-58.     With  V.  31  the  poet  begins  to  recite  the  traditionary 
miracles  of  the  Prophet :  how,  when  he,  before  his  mission,  used 
to  retire  to  the  mountains  around  Makka  for  meditation  and 
prayer,  those  mountains  found  voices,  and  used  to  entice  him 
to  forego  his  holy  purpose,  by  revealing  to  him  where  gold  was 
to  be  found  within  their  recesses,  that  would  exalt  him  above 
all  his  fellow-townsmen  in  wealth  and  influence  :  v.  33  recites 
the  pr^;nant  idea,  not  found  in  the  Qur'an,  that  the  whole 
material  creation  was  drawn  forth  out  of  nothing  by  God, 
merely  to  manifest  the  divine  love  towards  the  first  of  created 
things,  the  light  of  the  spirit  of  Muhammad.     Verse  35  begins 
the  list  of  the  Prophet's  titles,  as  celebrated  throughout  the 
Muslim  world.     <* God's  Beloved  One"  {habibu  *Udh)  is  his 
highest,  most  sacred,  and  most  special  style ;  as  Adam  is  called 
**  the  Elect  of  God  " ;  Noah,  "  the  Saved  of  God  " ;  Abraham, 
"the  Friend  of  God";  Moses,  "the  Interlocutor  of  God"; 
and  Jesus,  "the  Spirit  of  God,"  as  also  "the  Word  of  God." 
Muhammad  is  held  to  have  been  a  prophet  to  demons  as  well  as 
to  all  mankind.     In  v.  39  is  intimated  the  boundless  science 
said  to  have  been  communicated  to  him  direct  from  God  when 
he  was  admitted  to  the  divine  presence,  sole  of  all  created  beings, 
on  the  occasion  of  his  celebrated  "  Night  Journey. "   These  lauda- 
tions continue  in  special  items  down  to  v.  58,  which  mentions 
the  sanctity  of  the  Prophet's  tomb  at  Madina  (not  at  Makka,  as 
is  generally  supposed),  and  the  blessedness  of  the  pilgrim  who 
reverently  visits  it. 

^^*  59'7'«  With  verse  59  commences  a  recitation  of  the 
prodigies  told  in  traditions  to  have  taken  place  when  Muhammad 
was  bom, "  in  the  year  of  the  Elephant,"  when  Abraha  advanced 
against  Makka  with  his  elephant,  threatening  to  destroy  the 
"  Cubical  House  "  (as  the  Temple  there  is  designate<l),  said  to 
have  been  built  by  Adam  and  rebuilt  by  Abraham.  The  palace  of 
Chosroes  at  Ctesiphon  split,  and  many  of  its  pinnacles  fell ;  the 
Fire  of  the  Magi  went  out,  the  Tigris  receded,  and  the  Lake  of 
Sawa  went  dry ;  (v.  65)  the  genii  moaned  aloud,  and  meteors 
gleamed  in  the  sky.     If  calculated  back,  it  would  perhaps  be 


i"" 


NOTES  ON  EL'BUSIRrS  MANTLE  POEM.    465 

found  that  our  August  or  November  meteors  were  in  profusion 
at  that  time  ;  but  Islam  has  invested  them  with  a  poetical  signifi- 
cance. They  are  flaming  bolts,  hurled  by  the  angels  that  watch 
the  approaches  to  heaven,  who  with  these  missiles  drive  back 
the  demons  that  lurk  about  to  overhear  the  secrets  of  Paradise 
and  the  divine  counsels,  as  talked  over  by  the  watchers.  By 
means  of  the  information  thus  surreptitiously  gained,  those 
demons  were,  until  then,  wont  to  beguile  mankind  through 
omdes  and  soothsayers ;  but  thenceforward  such  eavesdropping 
was  to  be  prevented ;  and  the  genii  in  flight  are  likened  to  the 
above  mentioned  discomfited  array  of  Abraha,  and  also  to 
the  defeated  Makka  forces  of  Badr,  who  turned  their  backs 
when  Muhammad  cast  handfuls  of  pebbles  towards  them  in  the 
fight.  The  pebbles  in  his  hands  proclaimed  audibly  the  unity 
of  God,  as  though  each  had  been  a  Jonah  cast  f(Mrth  from  the 
whale's  belly. 

w.  72-75.  Other  miracles  of  Muhammad  previous  to  his 
mission. 

w.  76-79.  The  "  Cave  "  was  that  in  which  Muhammad  and 
his  firmest  friend  Abu  Bakr,  the  father  of  his  only  virgin  wife 
'A'isha,  and  the  first  of  his  successors  as  Caliph,  were  concealed 
for  a  time  on  the  occasion  of  their  "  Flight,"  or  emigration,  from 
Makka  to  Madina,  when  his  townsmen  had  determined  to  rid 
themselves  of  his  preaching  by  the  shedding  of  his  blood.  A 
spider  covered  the  cave  entrance  with  a  dense  web,  and  a  dove 
built  its  nest  and  laid  eggs  in  front  of  the  cavern ;  so  that  the 
pursuers  judged  it  useless  to  search  a  place  so  evidently  un- 
tenanted. Abu  Bakr,  hearing  their  horses'  footsteps  approach, 
whispered:  "What  shall  we  do — two  against  many?" 
Muhammad  replied :  "  Nay,  we  are  three :  God  is  with  us." 
Abu  Bakr's  chief  title  through  all  future  time  is  that  of  "the 
Companion  in  the  Cave." 

w.  80^  81.  In  the  East  it  is  customary  to  kiss  the  hand  that 
bestows  a*  gift  or  favour ;  and  the  Poet,  in  imagination,  kisses 

2  G 


466  APPENDIX. 

the  hand  of  the  Prophet,  from  whom  he  has  received  much  and 
hopes  more. 

VT.  82-90.     More  of  the  miracles  attributed  to  the  PropheL 

w.  91-104.  "  Miracles  of  the  Truth  '*  are  the  verses  of  the 
Qnr'in.  Each  verse — ^naj,  each  word  that  has  an  attributive 
sense — ^is  held  to  be,  and  is  commonly  termed,  "a  miracle," 
**  a  sign,"  **  a  wonder  *  ^ayet^.  The  idea  of  "  a  verse  *  is  never 
held  of  them  bj  Muslims.  The  Qor^  is  believed  to  be  eternal 
in  its  signification,  inherent  in  God's  essence,  though  its  visible  and 
audible  words  were  "  brou^^t  into  new  existence  "  when  revealed 
or  promulgated.  Each  of  these  distichs  of  the  Poem  has  a  definite 
allusion. — 'Ad  is  the  name  of  a  pre-Semitic  nation  of  Arabia 
Felix,  whose  Cyclopean  constructions  remain  to  this  day  the 
wonder  of  the  simple  Arab,  and  of  the  rare  European  traveller. 
That  nation  is  said  to  have  been  destroyed  by  a  hot  blast. — 
"  Iram  **  is  the  mysterious  earthly  paradise,  usually  invisible  to 
mortal  eyes,  but  reported  to  have  been  occasionally  seen  in  the 
sandy  desert,  at  no  very  great  distance  from  the  present  British 
stronghold,  Aden  (which  word  is  the  very  name  of  "  Eden  **). — 
The  QurUn  and  Islam  are  each  styled  *'  the  Cable  of  God." 
— ^The  "  Tank  "  is  a  traditional  reservoir  in  Paradise,  where  the 
traces  of  worldly  sin  will  be  washed  from  the  faces  of  those 
justified. — The  *'  Straight  Path  "  is,  of  course,  Righteousness  ; 
but  common  ignorance  describes  it  as  a  bridge  spanning  the  gulf 
between  this  world  and  heaven. — ^The  "  Balance  *  is  one  of  the 
names  of  the  Qur'an,  but  commonly  supposed  to  be  the  weighing- 
machine  in  which  men's  good  and  bad  actions  wUl  be  set  against 
each  other  in  the  last  Judgment. 

w.  105- 1 1 5.  A  description  of  the  "Night  Journey"  of 
Muhammad,  in  the  spirit,  from  Makka  to  Jerusalem,  and  thence, 
through  all  the  heavens,  to  God's  own  sacred  presence,  from 
which  even  Gabriel  has  to  keep  at  a  distance  lest  he  be  consumed. 

w.  1 16-134.  The  feats  of  Muhammad  after  that  event :  his 
battles  and  his  victories.    The  Poet  tells  his  hearers  to  ask  for 


NOTES  ON  ELBUSIRPS  MANTLE  POEM.    467 

details  of  those  who  were  vanquished ;  of  Hunayn,  the  great 
battle  after  Makka  had  submitted  ;  of  Badr  and  Uhud  (Ohod), 
his  two  first  fights.— v.  130.  The  "  lances  of  Khatt "  are  bamboo 
spears  imported  from  India  at  Khatt,  an  ancient  Arabian  port 
on  the  Persian  Gulf,  whence  their  name. — v.  131.  "  Who  have 
a  mark  that  distinguishes  them  " — in  the  scars  on  their  foreheads, 
produced  by  frequent  prostration  in  worship  (not  prayer). — 
V.  132.  The  odour  of  warriors  in  buff  and  armour  is,  doubt- 
less, ''as  a  nosegay"  to  their  valiant  leader,  and  to  their 
companions-in-arms  on  the  battle-field. 

%  w.  135-139.    Other  glories  of  Muhammad.    The  "  words  of 

God"  are  the  words  of  the  Qur*an,  and  the  "  Demonstration  " 
is  one  of  its  names. — ^v.  139.  The  "  Illiterate  One  "  is  the 
title  of  which  Muhammad  is  usually  said  to  have  been  most 
proud;  for,  by  reason  of  his  lack  of  worldly  scholarship, 
the  wondrous  rhetorical  elegancies  and  deep  significancies  of  the 
QurlLnic  passages  amount  to  the  greatest  of  miracles.  He 
was  himself  an  "orphan" — fatherless  ere  he  was  bom,  or 
^  soon  after,  and  motherless  when  only  six^  years  of  age ;  being 

cared  for,  at  first,  by  his  grandfather,  'Abdu-1-Muttalib,  and 
after  him  by  one  of  his  paternal  uncles,  Abu-Talib. 

w.  140-161.  The  Poet's  account  of  the  reason  why  he  com- 
posed the  Poem,  and  invocation  of  the  Prophet's  intercession 
for  him.  The  mention,  in  v.  151,  of  Zuhayr  the  poet  (father  of 
Ka'b^  the  author  of  the  first  and  only  real  "  Mantle  Poem  '*)  and 
his  eulogy  of  Harim,  by  whom  he  was  richly  rewarded,  is  as 
^  much  as  to  say  that  he  himself  hopes  to  be  spiritually  rewarded 

for  the  present  pan^yric.  (Zuhayr  sings  the  praises  of  Harim, 
son  of  Salm^  in  the  i8th  eclogue,  p.  99  of  Ahlwardt's  Divans, 
published  by  Messrs.  TrUbner  &  Co.,  of  London.) — ^The  con- 
cluding two  verses  of  the  section  are  an  expression  of  confiding 
reliance. — w.  157- 161.  The  usual  concluding  prayer  for 
God's  grace  upon  the  Prophet,  his  family,  companions,  and  all 
succeeding  Muslims. 


468  APPENDIX. 


THE    L    POEM    OF    THE    FOREIGNER. 

(LAMIYYATU-'L-*AJAM,   by   ET-TUGRA*i) 

Translated  by  J.   W.    Redhousb,   Esq. 

[On  comparing  the  following  translation  of  the  famous  poem 
of  £t-Tugra%  which  Mr.  Redhouse  has  obligingly  made  for  this 
volume,  with  Dr.  Carlyle*s  rendering  (pp.  153-161),  it  will  be 
observed  that,  in  a  few  instances,  the  true  meaning  of  the  original 
is  lost  in  the  metrical  version.  Some  particulars  regarding  the 
author,  &c.,  are  given  in  pp.  433-435.] 

FIRM-ROOTEDNESS  of  view  has  protected  me  from 
precipitancy ;  and  the  ornament  of  excellence  has  em- 
bellished me  when  void  of  trinkets. 

2.  My  honour  at  the  last,  and  my  honour  at  the  first,  are 
equal ;  for  the  sun  that  inclines  towards  a  fair  altitude  in  the 
morning  resembles  the  sun  in  its  decline. 

3.  In  what  might  consist  a  residence  in  Bagdad  ? — I  have  no 
home  therein  ;  I  have  neither  she  nor  he-camel  there. 

4.  Distant  from  my  friends  ;  empty-handed  ;  isolated  :  I  still 
am  as  a  sword-blade,  the  two  flat  sides  of  which  are  bare  of 
sheath-coverings. 

5.  There  is  no  sincere  friend  unto  whom  to  make  plaint  of 
my  sorrow ;  nor  a  companion  unto  whom  my  joy  may  be 
cominunicatecL 

6.  My  absence  from  home  has  grown  long ;  so  that  my  saddle- 
camel  has  moaned,  and  her  saddle,  and  the  heel  of  my  lipiber 
^pear. 

7.  My  famished  beast  has  shrieked  from  fatigue,  and  has 
groaned  for  what  my  saddle-beasts  have  thrown  off;  and  the 
riders  have  been  contentious  in  blame  of  me. 

8.  I  wish  for  the  open  hand  of  wealth,  that  I  may  have  its 
help  to  pay  off  debts  that  I  owe,  as  a  point  of  exalted  feeling. 

9.  But  Fortune  inverts  my  wishes,  and  makes  me  contented 
with  a  return  home,  instead  of  riches  following  on  earnest 
endeavour. 


THE  L  POEM  OF  THE  FOREIGNER.         469 

10.  And  then,  that  well-proportioned  man,  like  the  upper 
p&rt  of  a  epear,  holding  his  like  between  his  leg  and  his  saddle : 
not  pusillanimous,  and  not  depending  on  another ; 

11.  Pleasant  in  his  jesting ;  bitter  in  his  earnest ;  in  the  firm- 
ness of  whose  valour  there  is  mixed  the  tenderness  of  amatoiy 
conrerse ; 

I  a.  From  the  watering-places  of  whose  eyeballs  I  had  driyen 
away  the  flocks  of  drowsiness,  though  the  night  incited  the  herds 
of  sleep  to  men's  eyeballs ; 

13.  The  riders  being  inclined  over  their  saddles,  through 
heaviness,  [some]  coming  to  themselves,  and  others  fuddled  with 
.the  wine  of  drowsiness. 

14.  Then  I  said  :  '*  Shall  I  call  thee  to  a  momentous  event, 
that  thou  mayest  succour  me,  and  wilt  thou  refuse  me  in  the 
great  misfortune  ? 

15.  "Dost  thou  sleep,  leaving  me,  while  the  eye  of  the 
Pleiades  is  sleepless?  And  dost  thou  turn  away  from  me,  when 
the  dye  of  night  turns  not  ? 

16.  "  Then  wilt  thou  help  me  in  a  folly  I  have  taken  into  my 
head  ?  (for  at  times  folly  scares  away  from  cowardice). 

17.  "  Verily  I  wish  to  visit  the  tribe  by  night  at  Idzam;  whereas 
the  archers  of  the  tribe  from  ThuHd  have  already  shielded  it : 

18.  "They  shield  therein,  with  bright  swords  and  brown 
pliant  lances,  [maidens]  with  black  tresses,  yellow  trinkets  [of 
gold],  and  crimson  vestments  [of  silk]. 

19.  "  Then  march  with  us  under  the  safeguard  of  the  night,  at 
random ;  for  a  fragrant  puff  shall  guide  us  to  their  dwelling- 
places. 

30.  "  For  the  beloved  one  is  where  the  enenHes  and  the  lions 
are  crouched  down  around  the  lairs  of  the  antelopes,  the  thickets 
of  which  are  shafts  of  spears. 

21.  *'  We  are  bound  towards  a  growing  damsel  in  the  bend  of 
the  valley,  the  spear-heads  of  whose  eyelashes  have  been  tem- 
pered with  the  waters  of  coquetry  and  of  the  darkness  of  her 
eyelid  borders. 

22.  **  The  commendatory  conversations  of  generous  men  have 


470  APPENDIX. 


already  multiplied  concerning  her,  as  to  the  noble  qoalities  [in 
a  woman]  of  cowardice  and  avarice. 

23.  "  The  fire  of  love  rises  by  night  in  feverish  hearts  [livers], 
through  their  women  ;  and  that  of  hospitality,  on  the  hill-tops, 
through  their  men. 

24.  ''Their  women  slay  the  emaciated  of  their  lovers,  who 
struggle  not;  the  men  slaughter  noble  steeds  and  camels  [as 
food  for  guests]. 

25.  "  Those  stung  with  their  spears  are  cured  in  their  tents 
with  a  draught  of  the  pond  of  wine  and  of  honey  [of  the  lips  of 
their  maidens]. 

26.  "  Perhaps  a  second  visit  to  that  bend  of  the  valley  [see  v. 
21]  will  cause  to  creep  along  a  breath  of  cure  for  my  ills. 

27.  '*  I  do  not  dislike  the  gaping  spear-thrust,  when  paired 
with  a  shot  from  the  arrows  of  wide  eyes. 

28.  "  Neither  do  I  fear  the  glancing  blades  [eyes]  that  help 
me  to  flashes  from  the  interstices  of  blinds  and  curtains ; 

29.  '*  Neither  do  I  part  with  does  [women]  with  whom  I  hold 
tender  converse,  even  though  lions  of  the  thickets  menace  me 
with  evil. 

3(V  "  The  love  of  safety  turns  the  effort  of  its  possessor  from 
high  objects,  and  incites  man  to  sloth. 

31.  <*  Therefore,  if  thou  incline  to  it,  then  take  thou  to  thy- 
self a  burrow  in  the  earth,  or  a  ladder  to  the  atmosphere,  and 
isolate  thyself ; 

32.  "  And  leave  the  broad  ocean  of  ambition  to  those  who 
dare  ride  thereon ;  contenting  thee  with  some  slight  moisture. 

33.  "  The  contentment  of  the  lowly,  with  a  sorry  livelihood, 
is  abjectness ;  the  glory  of  docile  she-camels  is  in  their  most 
accelerated  pace. 

34.  '*  Drive  thou  them,  then,  at  a  swift  pace,  into  the  very 
throats  of  the  deserts ;  they  emulating  with  their  nose-bands  the 
doubled  bits  [of  horses]." 

35.  Verily,  all  grave  matters  have  given  me  to  understand 
that  glory  resides  in  migrations  [and  they  speak  truly  in  that 
respect]. 


